# 104-10218-10013

## Page 1

104-10218-10013

2025 RELEASE UNDEB,THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUSE:

ATKIN, HER GERT

201-836808

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIOYS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCIMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURF OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

NOT REVIEWED ON HSCA

NO DOCENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

Aried may

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSSKINATION

PERSON UNIT NOTTICO

_ SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(#:en Filled In)

TUSCION OF TOS COPE HASELTEL

- HOLTING ANOVOR INITIALE SCEN BY

53

BY: -

• AT:

DISSEN BY

ACTION UNS

FES

DOC. MICRO. SER

148

ACTION tO

220 SEP 15 1972

490

MICROFTEEL

SECRET 2822342

AUG 72 STAFF

CITE SANTO DOMINGO

13899

DIRECTOR.

WOMUSE EMPYREX

эи-2з6іeв.

1. EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISES HERBERT

ITKIR

_ ARRIVED

SANTO DOMINGO 22 AUG 72 FROM NEW YORK PAA 235 PROMIBITED

ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK SAME DAY PAA 236. ITKIN BORN

119 MOV 26, NEW YORK, US. PP B 1220178.

2. NO STATION TRACES. EMPYREX RECORDS INDICATE SUBJ

BLACKLISTED BECAUSE HE ENGAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS

MAFIA CONNECTIONS. ACCRODING SAME FILE, NY TIMES REPORTED

SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO BACROWN ON PERSONS IN DOMREP.

3. TRACES REQUESTED:

4O INDEX. FILE 281-834768 22-2-2813.

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.

SECRET

694215

PS

BX

CS COPY

1-22-2-2013

SECRET

28. AuG 72

201-836808

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ONCELISAEETH VLTTER: BA

809: 5156

SATE 29 AUGUST 1972

CABLI SECRETARIAT DIGEELIMATION

8r.2,8

CONF:

#+ +965851786

TOTAL COTIES:

SECRET

• т.

FILE IN CS PILE NO.

16-3

STURNTO -

- BRANCH

57

I TILE RIC

SECRET

SEr 2÷1572

2S:aa72 i3

CIZE DIRECTOR

TO SANTO DOMINGO.

3969447

REF SANTO DOMINGO 13099 (IN.694715)

21

.1. BELOV ARE ILLUSTRATIVE TRICES HERBERT IT N IN (201-836808),

PARTNER LAW FIRM ITKIN, POBERTS, GREENBAUM, NEL YORK. REGISTERED AGENT

FOR "HAITIAN GOVERNVENT IN EXILE" REPRESENTING LOUIS DEJOI.E

(201-240483) AND OTHER HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS 1963. REPORTEDLY FURNISHED

MONEY TO GROUP INVADING HAITI AUG 63. A AND B ARE FOR STATION USE ONLY.

A.. HAITIAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE USED SUBJECT'S OFFICES IN

NEW YORX CITY; SUBJ SAID HE MADE PERSONAL LOAS OF S15,000 TO

DEJOIE. (DBA-63510, 19 FEB 64) •

B. SUBJECT'S FORMER FATHER-IN-LAN' CALLED NODISH, NEN YORK

ANS

TO SAY

SUBJ CLOSELY TIED TO BACROSS, GIVING IT MUCH ASSISTANCE

АБ.

HAITI AND ELSENHERE, IMPLYING SUBJ TRUSTED INFORILT OR AGENT,

NOT STAFF ENPLOYEE. WARNED BICROWN SUBENOT DESIRABLE BECAUSE

DOUBTS RE RELIABILITY, DISCRETIO:, ABILITY TO YEET FINANCIAL

OBLIGATIONS, AND NENTAL EQUILIBRIUM. (NODISH NESO, 15 FEB 66) PI

C: NEW YORK TIMES, 9 NARCH E8, REPORTED U.S. OFFICIAL

• DESCRIBED SUBJ AS UNDERCOVER AGENT AHO INFILTRATED ORGANIZED

ES COPY (COSTISUED...)

29.A4673

1-22-2-2013

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICIAS

201-836808'

antonel:

SECRET

AUTHEITICATING

OFFICER

REFZODUCTION BY OTHER IHAN THE ISAGNOS OFFICE iS PACHIETED.

COPY. Na

---

## Page 4

4-00000

MESSAGE E CERTA

TOTAL CORES:

ST.CP8 FJY

caiG: ELISABETH VETTER: BA

UNIT.

EXIS

. DATE:

BY.

CONF:

SECRET

CARLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

•PIR

_ BRANCH

• 1I1R 110

TO

Г

RELEVEDE IN CS FILE NO -

IPTEDI

FILE. V.

lorent

(elast: caricat)

_SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

366744

CRINE, REPORTING REGULARLY, TO LNERGO, ONE HIGH OFFICIAL SAID

7

SUBJ. RISKED HIS LIFE TO "STAND UP TO MAFIA." ARTICLE ALSO STATES

SUBJ REGISTERED SEPT 63 AS FOREIGN AGENT DOM REP, MAKING NUMEROUS

TRIPS THERE. (TN-ING COPY THIS ITEM.) '

D. WASHINGTON POST, 19 JULY 68, REPORTED SIX ALLEGED

ASSOCIATES OF SUBJ, A KEY FIGUPE IN JANES L. MARCUS (FORMER NYC

WATER COSNISSIONER) KICKBICK CASE, INDICITED CHARGES OF ANOTHER

KICKBACK CONSPIRACY INVOLVING SERTRAGE APPLICATICNS SIDE TO

TEANSTERS UNION PENSION FUND; TRO OF SIX ALLEGED ASSCCIATES

IDENTIFIED AS MAFIA MEMBERS. SUBJ NOT INDICTED BUT NAVED IN

FOUR OVERT ACTS CITED INDICTMENT.

E. NEN YORK DAILY NETS, 15 CCT 68, REPORTED SUBJ, LABOR

LANTER, TRYING HAVE HIS TRIAL NOVED FROM STATE TO FEDERAL COURT,

CONTENDING HE ACTING AS LNERGO AND BKCROWN AGENT IN CUNNECTION

ABOVE CASE.

2. JULY 68 CHECK NUMEROUS BICROSS COMPONENTS FAILED REVEAL ANY

CONNECTION BETWEEN SUBJ AND BACROWN.

3. FILE: 201-836808 AND 22-2-20/3. E 2 INPDET

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICE"S

•UT-PENT ZATINO

RELEATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPROSUCTION BY OTHES THAN THE ISERLS CFFICE IS PICHISITEO.

•case Na

---

## Page 5

14-00000

mase: ELISABET!I VETTER:ba

CRITE

EXT:

CADLE SECRETARIAT CISSEMINATICH

CONFI

240

FILE.VR.

(classicasion

SEGRET

то

PAGE THREE

PARISAGE TORIA

TOTAL COFILS:

SECRET

NiCEX E D

NO INSEX.

FILR IN CS FILE NO.

RETURNTO

_ DHANCH

FILERIO

(dore ase ara lilady

erlitar

(rale r678 73.2084)

CHE DIRECTOR 36167141

7

(pics)

7

TH COMMENT:

REQUESTED HQS TRACES SUBJ WHO ARRIVED DOS REP 22 AUG 72

FROM NEW YORK, PROHIBITED FROM ENTERING, AND RETURVED

NEW YORK SANE DAY.

CI/EXO F.E. HUBBARD - IN DRAFT

ка.и

THÉODORE G. SHACKLEY

A RELEASINO OFFICER

COORDINATING OFTICERS

C/WH/7

GROUPI

fachdedfrom

cownarading and

secret

REPRODUCTIO!: SY OTHER THAN THE KEVING OFFICE IS PACHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

сару на.

7.33

---

## Page 6

ITKIN.

( (DATE)

RA NO.

101

REPLACESFCHA

•MICH MAY bE

447)

RIORITY

FILE MEERi INITIALLED

CATE CHECKEN

MAME CHECK REPORT - MPRC

ITKIN Herbert

an (No ntillle Name)

DATT AMD PLACE OE DIRTN

19NOV 1925

Richmon Hill, LI, MY. and

1738

4857

Biklyn,

Ny-

DATE (Froa 10)

(/4.)

ARTIVE ENTT

EISBAL RED

vanC

7 JUN 1971

CASE NO NO CATRION

544867-Гр-H2K

SEATION

MANT

CONST CUTT

COFICER

14 Fe:45 - 26N0Y46

112 230 694

son

10/46

ARTO

Сини RESPATO

tudent

(45)

SECURITY CLEARANCES

BASEO OMA

NONE INDICATED

LATED

SECRET

TOP SECRET

CRIPTOCRUTA

COLAT MARITAL (S)

1) Mather: BITKIN.

: Edytle

2) bord Conl. mal.

DORFLETED ON

MILLIAM P. KOSTERMAN /

specia! Agent in Sur leu

ORES

Local.

---

## Page 7

4-00000

Herbert ITKIN

Date and Place of Birth: 19 Nov. 1926, Queens (also given

as Jamaica, L.I., New York).

Description: 5'11". Brown hair. Brown eyes. (Photos in file).

Passports and Travel:

Ppt. B122634, issued 4 Jan. 1961. Renewed 11 Feb. 1964.

Ppt G097867, issued 14 Jan. 1966.

a. Was to depart NYC for UK, BOAC 506

o/a 14 Jan. '66. Had made 4 trips abroad in

earlier 12 months.

b. Was to depart o/a 8 Jan, '61, UK &

Western Europe. Two weeks vacation.

Father: Arthur ITKIN. Born 18 May 1901, Russia (also given

as "Poland",

18 May 1900). US citizen (by naturalization? marriage?)

Last stipulated residence: 118 Front St., Dublin, Ga (?) .

Mother:

Edith HAVES, born 27 April 1907 (also given as

"27 April 1905"). US citizen by birth.

Permanent Residences:

440 E. 79th St., NYC (Jan. 1966)

33 Greenwich Ave., NYC (Jan. 1964)

168 Rim Lane, Hicksville, New York (Jan. 1961)

Shelton Towers Hotel, Lexington Ave., NYC (Aug. 1966)

300 Madison Ave., NYC (Legal offices, 1965).

335

---

## Page 8

14.00000

Nitriiai Status is pouse

Adah'Itkin, born 4 May 1925, married 12 Dec. 1963

Diana Kane, born 8 Feb. 1930

---

## Page 9

14-00001

LEPT OF STATE PASSFORT APPLICATION

LATE: 14 JANUARY 1966

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUEJECT: HERBERT ITKTH

---

## Page 10

192i0

dolliess@darreccnt.agpl

this of wined

he stoched to sti

Not in file it 1/i1s-2at

1/2461 =

1/30/41

2116)

2-2-41

---

## Page 11

14-00000

iTERINCE SLIP

INITIAIS

DATE

abro ad.

-od.

APPROYAL

диО ВЕРнаРОЇ

AS RÉQUESTÃO

СОнНі*:

FER YELO LAFORMATIGE

¡PER CONSEREATION

IPRE PARE DEPAY

INITIAL FER CLEAZANGE

NECESEARY ACTION

SIGNATURE

REMARKS CE ADDITIGHAL ROUTING

On recorels indiente fpf.

+ 13122634 Issuel 1-4-61

FROM (a Rm8

коси ню.

ANO ADE.

рномЕ но.

ca riter i

''''ges

---

## Page 12

14-00000

¡ATE.

SENCY

CENTER

ROFA. IH AVENUE

EW YORK I0, NEW YORK

OPTICIAL DUSINESE

TRIN

14101

NEW YONK PASSPORT ACENCY

LESO FIFTH AVENGE

FELY YORK 20, N. Y.

POSTAGE AND FEEL PAID

U. B. DEPARTMENT OF STATE

PASSPORT OFFICK

Aaretary

---

## Page 13

Athen Sirent

Durcau of Records and Statiatice

Department of Health

CIRTIFICATION OF BIRTR

LILIS IS TO CERTIFY that

Herbert athe

Ser

Reas born in the City of New York on

Box. 19,

_filed in the

The City of Now York

1926

witness whereof, the seal of the Department

of Flealth of the City of Ngw York ha- been affied

hereto this I day of

60104

Carld. Elorst.

Cris Partn

Director of Bursas

Borough Registray

Waralags This certification la not valid ll it has been altered in say

may whalrooves of ll it does not boss lia raled soal al

tho Departmost of Healib,

5411-11531 701901(59)

.::..ii

"':.

.??.

14229

..: :*

---

## Page 14

14-00000,

isy fat

TEN IT

F51 A!

-=---"

=.=.

490:

SEER Ü T 232234Z AUG 72 STAFF

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 13895

DIRECTOR.

HOMUSE EMPYREX

1. EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISES HERBERT 1Í KIM ARPIVED

SANTO DOMINGO 22 AUG 72 FROM NEW YORK PAA 25E PROKIE:IED

ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK

SAME DAY PAA 236. ITKIN SORN

119 NOV 26, NED YORK, US PP 8 1228178.

2. NO SIATION TRACES, EMPYREX RECORO: INDICATE SUBJ •

BLACKLISTED EECAUSE HE ENGAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS

MAFIA CONNECTIONS. ACCROSING SAME FILE, MY TIMES REPORTED

SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO BXCROWN. ON PERSONS IN DOMREP.

J. TRACES REQUESTED.

'"4.

19DEX. FILE 201-

SECP

EiT

22-2-2013= EZ IMPDEI WN-S1SM.

694715

cond: cito

SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

D LNGLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: 1009400658

FROM.

RID/SD / 7

1 D 17

Dw -3

10: (Officer desigaction.

buriding)

E/ BC.

2.

3.

5.

DC/CI OffIce

10.

12.

15.

FORM

USE ONLY

D.C. FIDENTICe.

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CURRENT CABLE

INTENSION

1o

DATE

DATE

OFFICERS

LASTIALS

POTWARDED

MANATS Nuador poch comment lo shoe trom ot

do chora.

rom a tax across column chor toch commor

TO:

ACTION ADDRESSEE

1.

Cables forwarded herewith

have not been integrated

Into the CS record system.

2.. If you feel

they should

be classified Into & CS

file, please Indicate I1le

nunber (and other necessary

processing)

and retur. to

RID/SD, ROOM 1 D 17, TUBE:

• 8 JUN 1970

12 JUN 1970

RETAIN:

CS File Number

INDEXING:

YES

(Il yes, indicate nanes.)

3. If these cables do not

require processing into

tbe CS Records Systch,

please destroy.

TO SP. E/BC cable action turred

bver to Office of General Consul with

DIRECTOR 035476, 19 May 70; w1tb

following fros CI office DIR 037202

No file desigastion on either outgoing.

Per telecon with DC/CI Secy forwardiog

RID cabie for proper disposition on

clacdestine element. Particularly Into

that

toward Agency.

in alera

We lear

fontane-

→ just file the in he

Whall

der tele?

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

TATERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

KID US

aginia sec case sage

ate tear

---

## Page 16

3: da0r

1D:116%5

==014H. 013319044712

CLASSIFIED MESSENT

TOTAL COPIES /4

SECRET

r...

FCUM

30

C/EURS

INSA

CLACATE TO ESPLETO.

X-GEE TO ES 5551.2

O FE REL

HETURN TO

cRISO c/CI c/FiZ DOP NOOP CSDO

€ 513

SECRET 181745Z MAY TO CITE LAPCOR 1613 (LAUTERBACH ACTING»

DIPECTOR

PYBAT KEYWAY

1. SMOTH (SAUPROOT) EXPECTS DE ASKED EY HAG TO CONMENT

ON ACCUPACY LOPDOW TELEGRAPH ARTICLE 16 KAY TO EFFECT THAT

MR. HEPPERT ITKIN, AMERICAN LABOR LAWYEP, WAS OM JKLACE

SECRET MISSION IN ERITAIN IN

1555. ARTICLE SAYS JALACE

HAS FORMALLY ACKNONLEDSED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO NEW YORK

SUPRENE COLPT THAT ITKIN WORKED AS AN AGENT IN BRITAIN AND

THAT THIS OILY SECOND TIME JULANCE PAS PUBLICLY ACKNOULEDGED

THE ASSIGNMENT OF AN UIDERCOVER AGENT NOT OFFICIALLY ON

JKLANCE PAYROLL (POWERS WAS FIRST).

20 ACCORDING LOCAL LNERCO, IT ACTUALLY MANDLED

ITKIN IN LONDON AS INFORMANT ON CRIMINAL MATTERS IN 1965.

JAGUAR AYARE OF THIS. HOWEVER, LOCAL LNEPGO AS CONFUSED

AS WE ARE AS TO ITKIN'S JILANCE CO!INECTION AT THAT TIME.

3.

REQUEST HQS ADVISE WHAT WE MAY TELL SMOTH.

4.

NO STATION RECORD ITKIN.

5..

FILE DEFER.

18 magna

ES COPY

GP- 1

SECRET

1

12w37-26 t

---

## Page 17

14-00000

BENCEAL ILL CHECK CLASSI MATION TON AND BOTTOM

CASFIDENTIAL

• SECKET

• OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

Mr.

Holmes

CI/REA

DATE

INITIALS

Li intire

prin undicatin 6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMDENT

CONCUKRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURM

SIGNATURE

Remarke:

one is frishconcy on the

WarDer.

by John Greaney and John

Neither has any problems

as disabel entent a this trutch i

not clein, lighs wond celcome iny questions

by cabie

FOLD MERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME. ADDAXTO ANO PHONES NO.

DATE

OGC

UNCLASSIFIED

7-85a 237

Use previous editians

2/13/69

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

GPO: 19880-297-312

(40)

проки ін срімок лобови лоа.

li and tort de too deered a feel

---

## Page 18

Chiol of Station, San Salvedor....

Chief, WiS Division

FR27

Chief, WOMUSE

SUB ACT

Interview of Mr. Lus E, GUTIERREZ

RITICA REQUIRED. RIFERIILIS

Seo paragraph l belom.

B15019 60 BCTPSG

NO EATING NIELD

¡CAN SEETA REALISE

1. Your assistance is requested in interviewing the Salvadorlan citizen,

Luis E. GUTIERREZ, for information which would be helpful to thie Goverament

in determining the accuracy of certain claims made confidentially by

Herbert I ITKIN. Mr. ITKIN is a prime mitress in legal proceedinga presently

underway in Now York Cil, involving the Mafia and related underworld organisa-

one. ITKIN lives under the protection of U.S. Federal Marshala.

2. The following data is for your information. It sbould not be used la

dealing with GUTIERREZ or ourside of this Organization. ITKIN has been an

FBI informant since March 1963.

Ho has now claimed to have worked for this

Organization daring the period 1954/55 to 1960. ITKIN &88erts that his contact

during these years was one Philip HARBIN. This inquiry is concerned solely

with ITKIN's claimed relationship with this Organisation frorn 1954/55 to 1960

when he alleges HARBIN was his contact. As will be seer, GUTIERREZ, ITKIN

alleges, also know HARBIN during that tine and that face, therefore, le

material to tho credibility a ITKIN's story.

ITKIN's frst contact with Philip HARBIN wae in 1955 when he claime to

have baen contacted purguant to a mecting be. ITKIN, had in Philadelphia with

a leading personality of this Organization and another high-goverument official

Late is 1954 or carly 1955. According to ITKIN, HARBIN sever made the

speclfc claim of being fsom this Organization but that was ITKIN's aseumption.

ITKIN describes HARBIN as about 42 or 43 (ia 1955), an American.

He had receding heit, combed back but parted. He was about 5'g" in height.

Attachments:

As stated (2 copies,

Orig & 1 - COS, San Salvadox

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Dist:

2 - COS, Salvador w/a

1 - WH/2/ES&HD w/o

: 1 - CI/R&A #/a

1 - 201-836808 w/a

DSPATCH SYMBOL AHD BUMBER

DATE

HISS W -2742

CLASSEENCATIOM

14 February 1969

MOS FULL MIASER

SECRET/RYBAT

201-836808

CFFCE

CI/R&A

OFTKER

R. B. Holmes

ORIGIMATING

ПРИЯ

пр

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

WH/2/ES&HD

14536

OFFICER'S NAME

itica itti

7468

OFTICE SYMBOL

C/WH/2

DATE

"FES

1909

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

BFG. 1.66

FELEASING

SERIES NGMAIZE

Lerience

DISPATCH

---

## Page 19

4-00000

well-built with little evidence of fat. He always wore a vest. He spoke fluent

Spasish and could have been of Polish or Russiar family background. HARBIN

always drank tea, never collee, He appeared ailuent with a professorial air

about him.

Following an initial messiao. TVIN alleges tsui le as lifeti inci

periodically in New York City. ITKIN alleges that be passed to HARBIN copies

of the correspondence developed by his law firm, Delson, Levin and Gordon,

dealing with Indonesia, Burma, and India. ITKIN left that law firm in mid-1957,

presurably thereby losing total access. Among the materials ITKIN claims he

passed to HARBIN before he left the Delson, Levin and Gordon firm was informa-

tion he picked up from. = ian who worked at the United Nations for the

Government of El Salvador. This friend was Luis E. GUTIERREZ (see biographie

sketch, Attachment A). ITKIN claims that he became very friendly with

GUTIERREZ, who was studying either at New Yor'‹ University or Columbia

where he prepared a master's thesis on El Salvador's economic position.

HARBIN, he says, was interested in the topic and ITKIN alleges he furnished

HARBIN sotes of GUTIERREZ' monograph.

Sometime presumably after mid-year 1957, HARBIN asked ITKIN if he

knew anybody else who could do (intelligence) work, ITKIN recalled CUTIERREZ.

who meanwhile had moved to the position as Consul General of El Salvador in

New Orleans, Louisiana, HARBIN--ITKIN says--accepted the suggestion and

ITKIN provided an introduction for HARBIN by letter, which he sent to GUTIERREZ

in New Orleans. ITKIN asserts that HARBIN--according to his .own statement--

went to New Orleans and made the "new contact". ITKIN claims be last saw

HARBIN in 1960.

3. A comparison between the key points of ITKIN's account as surimarized

in the immediately preceding paragraph with the data set out in Attachment A and

E will show immediate contradictions that tend to destroy any credibility in

ITKIN's account, particularly with respect to his relationship to GUTIERREZ.

We also point out, solely for your information, that we have found no confirnia-::.

Hon in our records of any relationship between this Organization and ITKIN during:

the period 1954-1960, No traces have been found in our records or anywhere in

government thus far of a Philip HARBIN, and there is explicit denial thät there was

any meeting in Philadelphia in 1954 between ITKIN and the high officials he

nominates.

Finally, there is no substantiation in our files of any of the intelli-

gence product which ITKIN allegedly passed to HARBIN. This case, however, is

of such a nature that we must strive, if possible, to have GUTIERREZ' OWE

statement for the record.

*. We leave to the Station determination of the best manner to approach

GUTIERREZ. It is our preference that a Station officer, under suitable cover.

performa the interview, but it may well be that a consular of emubasay ufficer

might be the best person to do the job. H'e repeat that we are concerned in this

matter solely with the verification or denial of ITKIN's statements, specifically

the allegation that be introduced HARBIN to GUTIERREZ in New Orleans and

that as a consequence GUTIERREZ would be in a position to identify and describe

HARBIN in a way that would permit us to locate him if he exists.

The request

for GUTIERREZ' assistance in this matter is in no way predicated upon hostility

towards ITKIN nor is there any predisposition against his claims if indeed

evidence is found to back them up. If GUTIERREZ indicates that he is willing to

provide whatever information he can, you can assure him that his information is

solely for U.S. Government use and will not be made public by us at any time

witkout his expressed consent. Also, it is clear that we are prepared to accept

his decision to give no assistance in the matter.

0-161

530

USE PREVIONS EDITION.

CLASSiFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PAGENO

*CONTINUED

sant on r

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SECRET/RYbAT

119514-2742

5. We have compiled a shurt statement that might be used by the interviewer

to explain to GUTIERREZ, the purpose of the interview. (see Attachment B). A list

of questions, which sbould be given orally, in claborated in Attachment C. You

will note that these questione concern the larger as well as narrower clements

of GUTIERREZ' relations with ITKIN. We are willing in settlo for a specific

answer to the narrower question o1 thilip MANßlN in preference to generalizations

about the whole relationship. Il, as a consequence of your handling, GUTIERREL

is willing to talk in depth, we will be grateful.

6. Attachment Dia a copy of a New York Times article concerning ITKIN and

ose of the completed federal'

cases in New York: City. This item is attached for

your background reading. This may be shown lo GUTIERREZ., of course.

Attachment E is a copy of a letter dated 26 February 1965 from GUTIERREZ to

ITKIN. Again, the content of this letter tends to support the theory that iTKIN's

story, as elaborated in paragraph 2 above, is a fabrication. While possibly based

on a real relationship, it appears to be a fabrication with respect to chronology

and with respect to the exact mutual interests involved.. Also included in this

attachment is ITKIN's answer to the letter. We feel in retrospect that

GUTIERREZ might be unhappy to read his own letter in the course of a consular

interview. We, therefore, suggest that this not be shown to him. However,

there is no objection to an indication that the U.S. Government is aware that

GUTIERREZ was in perfectly correct correspondence with ITKIN during 1965 on

business mattors.

7.

We would appreciate compliance at your earliest convenience and a pre-

liminary indication by cable of GUTIERREZ' response, if one is forthcoming, on

the questions concerning GUTIERREZ' kaowledge of HARBIN. If there is anything

unclear la this dispatch, Headquarters would welcome any questions by cable.

All correspondence should be addressed Chief, WOMUSE, via Chief, WH.

James R. Rumsey

FORM

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

CONTINUED

PAGENO

3

33204

---

## Page 21

SECRET/RIBAT

Attacament A to HSSTV - 2742

GUTIERREZ, Lula Enérigue

Born la San Salvador, El Saivador, on 15 July 1916; son of Luis and Concepcion

G.; B. Commerce from Sir Georgo Williams Valversity, 1948; M.A. from New York

University, 1951; Ph.D, in Economies, University of Sas Salvador, 1959: married

Lydia DIAZ os 21 September 1940; ane daughter, Maria Marta; Vice consul of.

El Salvador in Montreal, 1944-1949; consul in Now York City, 1949-1952; consul

general, New Orleane, 1952-1958 (30 December 1952-3 April 1958)*; supt. banke

aod corporationa, El Salvador, 1958-1961; geaeral manager inversiones commerelales,

1961 • presenti profesaor of economies, University of El Salvador, 1958 - present;

commissioner, City of San Salvador, 1964 - present; served to firet licutenant.

Salvadorian Army, 1933 - 1939; member of Arierican Economista Association,

Assoclation of Salvadorian Econorzista; bome: 83 avenida Norte 619i office: Apartado

Postal 1144, San Salvados, El Salvador.

Who'e Who In Commerce end Industry, 1968-1969, page 558.

Foreige Consular Officos in United Stater, 1954 throaga 1959.

.......

...... vie !!

aot-13s.

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SECRES/RYBAT

, 31

Attachment B to HSSW - 2742

Suggestod Statement to GUTIERREZ

I undrestand you have a friend named Herbert ITKIN, & lawyer, now living

1a New York. Mí. ITKIN le under the protection of Unitod States authoritios

bocalse ho is the prime witness in very significant legal cases presently pending

before the Federal court in New York City. Mr. ITKIN, In private testimony to

U.8, authoritios, has indicated that you were a friend of his; he met you in

New Yort whilo you were at the Unlted Nations. He has also indicated that sometime

In 1957 ho sent a lottor of latroduction to you in Nery Orleans, presentiag one

Philip HARBIN whom ITHIN elaions did go to New Orleano and Introduced bireeli

to you. Your answars to questions relating to the above would be of great help to

the U,S. Goverament in determining the veracity o' ITKIN's stadamenta.

SECRET /RYBAT

15 "31

Hisalt +944551-2772

dada diprint traina slater so

- 260-836808

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECRET/RYBAT

Attachment C to HESW -2742

Questions to be preseated orally to Luis E. GUETERREZ

Would you descrlbe the circumstances leadlog to your introduction to

Nt. Herbert ITKIN and the nature of your contaces with Mr. ITKIN? When did

you firat meet Mr. ITKIN?. Where were you working at the time? What was

your position?

What school or university were you attending at the time? For wbat degree

were you preparing? In what subject? What subject did you use for your thesis?

Did you show it to ITKIN and/or did you give him a copy?

Did you continue to maintain contact with him after your departure from

New York? Do you still maintain correspondence with him? When did you last

have contact with Mr. ITKIN?

In 1957 or 1958 did you receive a letter from MI. ITHIN introduelng a

Pallp HARBIN?

Did a man named Pbilip HARBIN come to New Orleans and introduce bimooli

to you? Did he have a isttor of introduction from MY. ITHIN? (How did ho

represent himsell, 1. 0., whom did he represent?) Would you deacribe Philip

HARBIN? Would you describo your firat meeting with Philip HARBIN? What

subjocts were covered? How long were contacks maintained? When were thay

tarminatad? For what reason?

SECRET/RYBAT

COPY

+201-836808

"tonio asi

---

## Page 24

14-00000

Attschment E to HSSW -2742

San dollars du stalininish

XEOXONANSI

BAN MALVADOR.

Fobriary 26,1905.

It. sorbert Iuln,

300 racison avo.

Now Yor'e city, i.y.

Doar Herby:

It sas a roul jooù surprico to raceive your lotter

Pcoruur 15,

1005.'I had volttor. you trico

01

¡not threo yoars,

and I had no ancico.

I sont to for Yori to io Car.o. Convention

15 Soptonbor 1963; thon

I loonod for you every whoss, but I found

you notioro. So I reallzod this you had disagearod from Now Yorks

and movad to another placo. But that a rollef now, You st12l aro

In tiso Empira Stato kicking around and winsing about your oid

frionás.

À] you probably remembor no do zot soo each othor since

1952.

Tot me sivn you a rough brolllnt os sist hassens durine

tin 1g

timo.

In Novombos

1952 I lius appointod Consül Goneral of El Salvador

it Now Orloans; in 1958 I rosignod und care bacie to my country and

sas appolrod Comptrolor of the Bania Inspocting Bureau; then In

1960 I Jas

anjointed Gonoral Discctor on tico Social Socerity Burosu.

ti:or.

=a 1961 I roved to privata hissiness as Gonoral tanager or

INVERSIGNES COMERCIALES,

Soño, a small lnsurance compriy. Among some

of ay

prosont extra activitios, I um: a, no-jor of ino Clty Govern-

mont (City Commissionor); b) zenjor of tacidvisory Zoard of the

Central Zarix ard c)

Fofossor of Economics ard Businoss saragemont

at ino School o1 Engiaoering of the Unlicrsity of El Salvador.

I bolong at tho saro

roason

have boen loosing ior a moro

Juicy bustnoss, out so tar d

havo found nothing. That 19 ray I roulá sar you aro just on tho

offaring no to do soza businoss tith yoù. I hopo you till write and

toli no more about that you nato 15 mind. Aiso I 011l Do Malting fOr

Jou 1n hpr1l or any otbor time; ine sooner ico better.

Thero 1s somothing also I must tell you. I vant to go

back to lew york and nod your holp year badly. You mow that 1a

order to work in

ona must have a residont visa and to

obtaizod such

visa

ono Just buTe an Dilliar!" fron an inorican C1t1-

zon. Coula you

bo so xind giving ue such a bolp? I hopo you will say

XES.

21 ta

bost rogards, I am

Sincorely yours,

Radata vaca

H/W all #5 t HSSH- 2772

BS COPY

1: 701-836808

"es.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

14th 21008

Yarch 2, 1965

D.. Luis 3.

Cutleraaz

APDO,

POSTAL, 1144

San Salvador, Contral Mccrica

I bill plan to see you 1n iginl and dull lot

you laoil a fcir recis bafora.

I am curo that lie t:1l1 bo ablc to vork out

concching

tozether that will to to our sutual benefit

In sottina you back to lucrica.

Sincerely yours,

Herbert TIN

HI: gte

ine.

: B.

-•!.

---

## Page 26

4-00000

THE HER DONK

DÓY. MARCIS 2.1÷49

U.S. Olicials Say likin Was on Ageni, Reporting to F.B.I.

DO A 072038R

in isériese in Dures Circa

icetisi

dilocalis

CANCOSCO

in at jito blaste

w.Li's

drze

U.S. ONIOLALS SAY

Figure in arous Case Said

do Mave Picace Lile do

"Siand Up is dadd"

licinere lina, are có six per-

anas trainied

Lio

tas arca de.

scribeel inf irceral eifrais as

an unéricover anisa

rico

teltralei lne maid nt argacizca..

aire win

la. lue Federai surcau of lon.

rexrigation.

bir.

that, not writt

₴4

Jour arunch suard isy Federai

inarsiais, is 1o he lio Gorcrin

¡orent's dey vires; as a federal

conspisucy cuse. lis is a cos:

scientine dions

wish

former.

"Waler Corrrinks or.de Jarnes La

Harris; a requirs turna icader.

Antario fiony ices) Corajo:

Jerry fiod, caser. of a New

York.con.iructcn

cacizany.

Danici J. $u:10 a aron icader,

ard Couries 3.

24p7970rt

faminor lal partici di dir, iúdive!

Mr. Hikin-Chiles vic o! sive!

raose irateriard Güseraziere 1n-

¿crcover

F.2.1.

iniorition

she.

whic

he

engaged

numerous pitait sutress vege

¿urch arpure ine world

There is no scié aniormation

an los trotives ice dicocurg an

inner.

lowerer, ax-bigh

icceral ollicial bas caince dire,

Al-ycardid Nantaian, intyer;

"strange"

rian oho risiedi

thay say, wor

= -eides crimitai cares ogart

line diarCus

dine lairs racallotini cano

Lia inniry, iscusinat Cra-

trica dict a whoic range aá Gliste

livinics al Ine cily, sale and

e story of dir, dinin's de.

i'nice is in unitrouter agcal

sugriser

by

Toik

lich

-sitier

anies-

Disia isi a scarcte dó plesar

private

ard

•ciens in dew Yark, Washing-

sir, lize Cartbras ara

and

c's wieit.

rica with his aclisives as

di miniscover agera, dir. iläin

vi-s iivoived in Durerous 10-

kiinaliaral business resiures,

"is associalons and ous-ress

di-magematicast lirase isdical.

eu sy sie avastible docuineaus

in ü; peo lie wiro are Miring

in is about hom — sow lial

is antoiucment was not oniy.

•anà diatia figures hike Coralio

2...

judice figures

Licts, bus with pouinciaas in

do: traciesuan Resusoe. coup-

in dinarse,

un.on

a ki's ir. No York and De-

Lie i, ard sandicro in Loador

isresugalions are

aircady

titicuing on lie basis or 1n-

¿caicuconFage is, Coiumn?,

stutte. cut 45510-2742.

---

## Page 27

's? soc

yucu

HA DUITO AULLTU

€ J; 108

31951U14

стіж

MISTOI 01

471.91

10}

po!!

Ur?!

E9G!

*9!

DUTOLINS

SONOS

Infa uosa puy

м2)

жит

DIe 21941

- pats 247 7.416 09 2'90

2і прал::.

Le urnare

puries surdwro

sordisse.

purule time

20919 100015 8

deen 01 4:11411

¡arty et

TUTI!

Ful piusis

19124:.0.600.

11590 ÷0;

57.00

1M0=T per s.

J9jJ

J5TO

pur

Sст?

ma rattr

5.!

101

$232.133

7,99;90

13(AM 11397

1.3t7en

0?1011

Per e se preé an pron dia

27.3 per sey iitis

МиТИМИ 0YOI •4

DISS

saicis

UT.

* B

-E 3306

1790

---

## Page 28

4-00001

a credern tudi intan

pronachch

lie 8o

airl

Che Detinir tirider.

ridirdirsi

Vérmettor

misse-sti

52,78

ThAS

doccing

susted

duer:.

lerie le ded iranier

iste

acrile

ddiden-oi.

Sierri

сало із де Ій..ь

sá-tadãa

derida

tres

IlÄn

горісий:

i..c Cc.r.n

1 ann atr

A::0r6.-7

wind ser.

redo dive

"irpeiditi

raci

incide cal da

SEñio

S.0)5,

in s Siates

lire

scamsiera

515ySe

trives

se win! in coasic ins ined We'd

discuss il aocin."

"TienI wirl in New York.",

jlhr. ih..

Il is noi ciner cauriy mixes:

• сенсло! словав оді'

vias daidi

by tund rifile allay.

Tag boal.

w'as, he

viened a bicia catince:

The offria's con' im that der.

bahiad dis

aisix.r.

travers

Cretacio

sirel tricpinire and

ruche-condosa aty di. licin realed

nicä 1 had done sare cicking often

when

.07

triused

scorsiy busircas,"

permat

scarain.

Cau"s Biccall "52.000 Fec°

calia

Cosaio's

digr

siin tir.

he is compicialy

iDy anicerioni betwcon dir.'

United Stes.

Wesirürs.

firs

$2.ü)

1lan sialei in dic regisira-,

doc

assistant

thati

direcior la cia, e o: ie F'3.1.'7

"ioco, siará he bicabala

coautored da drog

ATIC.:

хо. ін.

hor.

was

don uvaiud. ко силтсте

haYe

rearember

vid.

liale was dies tristeree

fur

Erus,?

with!

date? Mav.

$50.00011

period

siss

Lid Piobivion.de

3907iex

tie

ciro

.lia.di

anch

Erpilleir

itfaitian Torriinsy.

T'r' merdis jialeair that thr

ristinashen la mira str. likin.

crainated in doninivi, 1ii.9

ad thai inscad di poiung bis;

Mr.

l'air.

irrinaliy

ent dir. Irjrio $i5,cã0 for un-

ras 19.,0ailable

le in мігdlьo1s.

Alero 11.816°

11000

•Igno was olen in lie Doni!

¡nica: Repuhic, aul Kis aclive

in oft abortive 2i107i,2r in 1903

---

## Page 29

14-00000

CONSIDENTIAL

220,87

HEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Yelspaper Argicle on Herbert Itkin

octobe and not it to an i so once bine Janes

Long, Country Director AM/CAR, by ir. Paul li Haniond, Chief,

Hil/7.

Hir. long expressed no interst

the article.

ob Ber

N11/7/ilt

CONZIDENTIAL

---

## Page 30

14-00000

Mercas Sentonding Ped 913

.l..

- ...

Piindi

on

inanies

ete 'rout,

suprari.

riose:

:1268

65.4.1;

114 14

isra

C: C 22

- is jerse

---

## Page 31

4-00000

Reminders

Tristand?,

Not!:

her!

k'1

To the fei.

do

yor Cliver this or does lariood Long it?

(ile preiers the latter.)

JH

cluth Jong it

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SECRET

MENORANDUW FOR

SUBJECT

:

Chief, WH/FI

: Herbert Itkin i is!"

1.

There has been no Agency contact with ITKIN. Ray

ROCCA, C/CI/R&A stated that CI Staff definitely never was

in contact with hin.

Ray ROCCA's source of info on the DEJOIE-

Max BOLTE-ITKIN & Company, activities was Max BOLTE and not

ITKIN.

2.

Offices checked for possible contact, all of which

proved negative, were: Office of Security, Domestic Contacts

Service,

Domestic Operations Division, CA/3, CA/4, WH/7 and

CI/R & A.

3.

On 13 May 1963 ITKIN reported to DIA in San Juan

the results of his meeting with DEJOIE, BOLTE,

FIGNOLE and

LuC STEPHES in their formation of the Provisional Haitian

Government in Exile formed in San Juan on 12 May. & that

ITKIN had

been hired by that group as its Attorney.

Oa

10 June 1963 ITKIN registered with the Dapartment of State

as a Foreign Agent for this group adding that he made a

personal loan to DEJOIE of $15,000.

4.

A 22 May 1963 Memorandum of Conversation from the

Department of State sets forth the results of an informal

meeting (possibly held on 28 April 1963) attended by Forrest

E. ABBUHL (Officer in Charge, Haitian Affairs,

State ARA/CRA),

DEJOIE, BOLTE, a (fnu) BRODIE, and ITKIN, in which DEJOIE

expressed his

political views, asked for U.S. support for

an invasion of Haiti, U.S. recognition of the Provisional

Government in Exile, etc.

Appropriate documents substantiating above are

herewith attached.

Gase theftait

C/NH/7/CI

19 July 1968

ca in deist.

Gilganes

•То-ростіт

---

## Page 33

18-14. C1l,968

120- 9299)

farter-in lown (+6005 41006 a pressine attring.

in Pennymarie, Republican foltion a closen to Hugh

Gend for CIA, DCS pamp that for years iTt, d ha

Ament Questerio

No. record of any content.

CA/4- Lolin -

No recond fang costed. tones, pince info in devor. ple

Cht if and of t weet ones quetend spiel advise Manly 22

Are f ang foible Ganest of ATkin puert 021T.

CA/3

No second of amy content with lIked.

---

## Page 34

4-0000

o!

found

richfece

Aps.

thut

anie

registeres

353

in

tuis

oli

5110

that subject

was

aho

sgen:

311/7/1!1 chected

state

of

Registration

sectica

checked nath dir,

Lanvin

1S

record of

there

of Justice

who said

Uu:laes

registered

agent.

is cier haring

een

In lun oi he registerod

à s

a representative

in

the

Deroie-fiynole previsional

government

bee"

paid

530, 000 sher

have

rias

further info.

exile

and

inas sovernient rook power.

io

1:43.

eris?,

110112:

digate

irittitiln,

10d1:"

: 1e

Exi, 199

15.0.1l

1855-endred

.L.:

rett

• 1:6:

Forte

In ie.i

72

0:9: 0:3685;

aiutard

ristar:"

д'

Pio?!?

54191

callet deti

к.8°

1 ne.

mite tire plare :a "si.1

rot

inost Wia?

apurce of rie ir.fo.

tafrerier.!

juraai tro!: 0.

ia:*

Anticle abolit

apprared in the lea tore linee ar:

13 jamary 194P.

Descritod

as

sapers s'ory teller,

last nover and vineeler.

Ari1cie filer inis3-9-ia.

Выстать

600190001

of us trasali

certe kra)

8.8 2011

1 от. Коротка, 17.18,

in is in 170) onde

pros ico's of tha

211536-848

д=:-

---

## Page 35

14.00000

sing:

"HE NEW YORR TILES. FRIDAY, JULY i9, ISC8

re des, 6 LINKED TO ITKIN F

INDICTED BY U.S.

Accused of Kickback Fiot!

Involving Teamster Fused

N.Y. Jury Indicts!

6 in Marcus

Kickback Case

NEW YORK, JU'S 18 PH

—A Federal greed jury

dicted today six alleged asso

ciates of altorney Hertert Il.!

kin, key figure in 156 STarcus!

Kickback case.

on esarges of

another

kickback

coaspiracy;

ilinvolsing

mortgage

applica.

Lioles made to the

Teamsters'

Union pension fund

U.S.

Atty.

Robert Morgen-

thau identified tro ci the de-

fesdarts,

Salvatore

Granello,

45, and James

Piumeri.

65.

both of Yew York, as members

of the Stafia. Their codefend.

ants were

David Menzer, 57,

Great Neck, N.Y.; Joba Kielly,

37,

Oyster Bay

Cover,

and. Hyman Lezine.

58, of

Coral Gables, Fla, ard Leon-

jard Russo,

N.Y.

45, of Larchmont,!

Itkin was not indirted but

was inamed in each of four

overt acls elled is tira bodier

ment

By MARIN TOLCHIN

Six men linked to Hayin: a

I:kin

-

the key Gorer: 63%;

informant in the James Marrus &

kickback

case

were in-in

dicted yesterday by a Federall

grand jury in an alleged kaki

loack

conspiracy

tnvahmig

8;134

teamster union pension fura

Itkin was not indicted taro

was named in most of the ereri to

acts charged in the indictezzil

and he appeared to be the =1-

sing figure in the conspiray.! o

Jekin, who was an intorizon

for

the

Central

Inteltizence! St

Agency and the Federal Bureau, A

Investigation,

testified

Federal Court thee be had said e

off teamster officiais and crimila

nals to arrange loans from Lbe

fund on bchalf of individuals:

and corporations

Itkin did not name the per

sans who allegedly recerved the

payolis. However, Government

officials

indicated

P1742-21>22

that the Indictment-and tire

previous indictments erotingly

teamster pension funds - kadi,

resulted from Itkin's inforce:

tront.

Construction Invatred

Yesterday's

Indicersenty

charged that the six men badl

participated in a scheme to bet

a $1,350.000 mortgage for Big

Viue

Discount

Departent;

of 24 West 25gh'

Stores, for the construction of

Street,

threa discount centers in Poser,

pano

Beach,

Cocon

aud

Lauderdale, Fla.

1 Fors,

Robert

M.

Morgen tau, )

United States

Attorney:

said

that the men

had obrained

tentative

mortgage

ment from the

Centra

southwest and Southeast

Pension

Fund of the

tional

Brotherhood

sters, based in

Chicaga

Morgenthau

added

that the loan never WES

This

was the fourth

ment

involving

the

badies.

tune since May.

Three of

tire

201-5368081

---

## Page 36

14-00000

D

UNCLASSIFIED

INTER'

USE G....1

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDEN IL

SECRET

SUBJECT: ¡Optionall

FROM:

_/ LIgrant/br

DCS/(peretional Support Staie

Xl spo Key 31d11.

10i /¡Officer desognosion, ruom rumber, ond

Z26&

NO

DATE

DATE

CHIKERS

PENTIALS

32 Larch 1,48

COMMINIS (Nuntor dose corrent la shom deces minor

to

wtora.

Dian a line cercas eulurn ottor durt ecreent y

1.

RICRisTD

Ccs/ Purding

Mr. Erich Isenstead 3 l43 453

ЮЙШАЗОО :

2.

Attached is copy of the

letter our lew York office

sent to Kune in gaswer to h18

inquiry re ITKN.

13 1a1. 1 CY.

DC/WH

Mr. Goodwin

GAES

Pies in

•31, 12

.1050% 793

---

## Page 37

14-00000

P.O. Eox 1294

Grued Contral Gtation

New tor% 27, lew York

February 18, 2906

Mr. E. Kent Kano

R. D. f1

Kusc, Ponnsylvanio

Dear Mr. Kono:

1h1l0 10 lew York on Februniy 15, 1966 on your vay to

Florida, you ploned no to inguiro about a lor Xors attorroy.

You will recall thut I proniord to paio some inguirico and

cumunicato the rcuulto to you. Picaso bo adviuca that tio

ecnticion 1u question 18 not affiliated or connocted with my

colleaguos or ayocil.

I rogrot I uis unable to convoy tale information to you

prior to your doparture pros low York.

Vary sincoroly yours,

Wo te tround

Wir reundinoo

..i,

it is poet"

7245

2W.79

notion!in

---

## Page 38

4-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INta

USE ONLY

CONFIDEN..AL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (0p1e0001)

FROins

lautry concorsin: Cla cacictila of verbert itiin, des dorà lawyer

LUTUSSION

ка

Lillian 1. 1redl/js

lascerational siamest itsif

DATE

5:krcn 190,1

10: idrices dongraton, cura nwaber, urad

burklery)

DATE

RICEIVID

CHICER'S

1841T8a15

LORWISLID

to vescan.

Uram a lino across culuma attes oodle commorl.y

1.

Cliffonuind

rito brich lochialend

2.

C MAISLO

Per our conversation, ittiched

in cony di our file recore se:

ir. lierliore Itsin.

This offico has no record of direc

cuntaet with Ithin it any tine.

3.

4.

5.

I Enguy le e1l'62032)

MAR iNES

Laopy to del wH

Maoßy to Ma. Googwen

---

## Page 39

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

15 Febrar 1966

Co Deleig

Injusty Concerning CLi Cosostion Ge lastart

IZ.

Acall secand co t20 LeSed 122022226 85 65

2 se Cater es tie tazeen o 22.308-22.423

cuidasà alata de zurrero auca, c Depos des

Pio-lairg

to the CIi.

This cail tan nac dy lo E. dece Cae, MaD. 41,.

tome, Pencjiveala. la. taro I0 a 25a73206 Coterasy 1a

Republica molitichen dia turo tio picsect Gournsi cd

Larvesé Itiva 15 A Farcer 203-14-108 sf li, Leno'so.

Itin allecidly claisa tio dn hel bica of cazcliercole

cocistasco to Oll 1a initi eni Clocadesc, Dio 1ulsiatioa

H. Fir. HIce COntaciCÓ dis ailIcO Eor duO GEccidio LeassJa:

(0) inin 102an Chi 1i1

có theo tiro a Cociacüne Cal Coria a dscance Cl Cosita

110 Mandal Calcalano, Cia Lautal CGallioria

bia Sonor señ-1t-lei, tail de lenta to dicpiore sig Latter's

CIEITE DÙ EGIO CIA GiTILiTION DE LACHÍLE beLaLO Procoeding

i. Kass suosid tie liow York OffiCO IXX3 8 5902

---

## Page 40

CONFIDENTIAL

17 104-65

15, FiDINOTY ISÃ6

I1=1ãa..

Fo thourt tartaro thla dirlec could clar 1p bio

valia to t00 Mexoy.:: diano 10 557910104 01 tho violo Duuinoss.

6. L'a chitainea that 1i nould take cosa tiro to hava:".

duch a 2auly could da suite contic

ad àe03 ase be alosad. le cionod tunt 10 kould ariglaaão

1. Kano diù sos

• Jer Bo lu. Ineres

lio2'Ci0d 1020

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 41

14-00000

1.19

102:13. XI9JACS

SECRET

actirilò

AIT:6N

26

E/WA/COC 5 C'RID COPY

FILE

vR C/21H 6, 5/c1

•EE R E I 2923241 FEB 68 CITE JHDAVE 19GS

DIRECTOR

1Hu9m61161

ATÖHI UMSCEAN

PES: STAVE 1464 (,161103)

FOLLONING TRACES SUBJECTS LISTED IN PARA 3 REF:

1. ROBERT DESCHAMPS (201-748945), HAITIAN EXILE AND

JUNIR OF WESTRADE IMPORT-EXPORI COMPANY, CORP: GABLES,

FLORIDA; SUPPLIED HAITIAN EXILES WITM ARMS; AUSISTED BY

BUSINESS ASSOCIATE LOUIS DEJOIE (201-242483), CONTACT OF

EVLUCID FEBRUARY 196G0 CUFGA-14392, 2 MAR GA: UFGA-IPSER,

Li AUT 64; UFG-6128, 2Ó DEC EA) LNERGO TRACES INDICATE HE

DORN 25 NOV 28, ST MAPC, HAITI, ARPIVED IN U.S. AS PERISANEHT

RESICENT 28 JAN GO, RESIDED SBIR SAM AMARO DRIVE, CORAL GABLES.

GENERAL REPUTATIONI GOOD. INTERVIENED BY LNERGO IN. DEC i96I IN

CONNECTION WIIN POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT WITH HAITIAN EXILE GROUP,

PAIRI: STAIED KAD NO KROULEDGE OF PATR! AND WHILE SYMPATHETIC

WITH THE GINS OF THE HAITIAN EXILES AND DESIROUS OF SEEING

..."

A DEMOGRAT ICFORY OF GOVERNMENT IN HAITI, GOULD NOT CONIRIBUTE

FUNDS OR OTKERWISE ISVOLVE HIXSELF IN HAITIAN POLITICAL MATTERS.

DESCRISED ÁS A MAN OE MEANS WHOSE NET WORTH WAS APPROXIMATELY GECRET

• 221

---

## Page 42

4-00000

PAGE -2

UMWAVE 1469

SECRET

5522,202. LHERGO CLOSED CASE

OH 29 DEC 6I.

RUBERT LEGER:

MA IT 1A

COMMUNIST

LOUIS DESOTE AND ASSOCTATE OF ROBERT BESCHAMPS

SECRETARY FOR

CAVE 6104,

16 DEC 64; EVLANE/à COMTACT REPORI 3 JAN 65: (261-727698).

LNERGO TRACES INDICATE HE BORN IG FEB SO, PORT AU PRINCE,

HAITIO OCTOBER 1961 RESIDED AT SEGE SE SUAD COURI, MIAMI

AND WAS TRAVELING SALESPAÀ FOR WESTRADE, INC. JAMUARY 1962

WAS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF VESTRADE, INC. INTERVIEVES

BY LNERGO AND STATED HAD BEEN CONTACIED BY MAITIAN EXILES

BUT DID NOT PLAN TO BECOKE INVOLVED WITH THEM. LUERGO CLOSED

CASE IS JULY 62. (SISTER, LISA LEGEN, ALSO WORKED FOR

WESTRADE. S

3. LOUIS DEJOIE (281-248483>8 FORMEF. HAIT IAN SENATOR

BORN 23 FES 96, AND PRESIDEHTIAL CANDIDATE: SINCE EARLY

GR'S EXILE LEADER PLOTTIMO ABAINST DUVALIER, TRAVELS EKTEN-

SIVELY. ARRIVED MIAMI JULY I96A AND BECAME ASSOCIATED WITH

EVLUCID-1. BURINESS ASSOCIATE OF ROBERT DESCHAMPS (HAVE 8S41,

8792, 8918 61964), UFGA 17388, 21374, 22327).

LHERGO TRACES

INDICATE HE REPUTED TO BE INVOLVED IN HAITIAN ACTIVITIES

IN OCTOBER 1958 AND RESIDED 16 E. SETH STREET, HEW YORK CITY

SECRET

---

## Page 43

4-00000

ECRET

PAGE THREE SAGAVE LAGOSE CRET

IN JUNE 19GA NAS IUTEPVIRUCO BY LNERSO MT MORE DE ROBERT DESCHEMES,

SIS& GRARADA BLVD.

IN ANTI-DUVALIER ACTS.

CORAL GARLES, DISCALEG MY INVOLVEMENT

OCTOBER

I96A GAS IA TE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC AS A SALES MAMAGER FOR WESTRADE, INC.

L.NERGO

CLOSED

CASE DECEMPER 1964,

4.

BUENAVENTURA (SANCHEZ: FELIX 8261-13031288 COMINI

CAN EXILE, ANTI-COMMUNIST, RESIDED HAVANA, CLE: DURING LATE

SB'S AND WAS STATION SOURCE. ASSOCIATE OF JUAN BOGCK

(TKÄ-1383= 1459, 14740 1484) MIRISTER OF EDUCATICA DURING

JUAN

BOSCH'S ADMIMISIRATION AND LEADER OF PARTIDO REVOLU-

CIONARIO DOMIMICANO (FRUS I96A° APPOINTED AMBASSADOR TO

VENEZUELA, AUGUST 1966 CCUFG-JS58, ATIB; SDOM

15378. 80.

•LNERGO IRACES.

S. VICIOR AYBAR - HO

STATION TRACES. LAERGO TRACES

INDICATE FULI. MAME VICTOR LEON CAYBARD DE SOSAS OFOB IS MAR

28, SANTO DOMINGO, DOR.& MARRIED TO MARY BOSWELL, AMERICAH

• CITIZENS FORMER DORE CONSIN IS CHICAGO, LNERGO LAD ALLEGA-

ITION HE WAS AGENT OF SIA. INTERVIENED IN JULY ISGI AND

SIR CONNECTIONS.

STATED

HE NAD BEEN APPROACHED

¡BY SIM WHILE IN CHICAGO AND THAT WAS INE REASON ME HAD LEFT

SECRET

---

## Page 44

4-00000

SECRET

PACE FOUR JHAVE 1469 SECRET

THE D.R. DIFLOMAYIC SERVICE. EAS ERFLOTED BY WESTRADE,

ISCO, BUE RESIGNED AND RETURIED TO OTHER EAPLOYKEET IN

CHICAGO.

GUARDA (VE) LAZQUEZ - DO STATION TRACISI SO LAEREO

¡RACES.

T. COL (2) WILLIAM BORD:. POSSIBLY DENTICAL WITH

MAXVELL VILLIAM BOBD (URA) D OFOBE SA APRIL 21. SAR FRANCIS-

CO. SUBJECT OF 201-289995 EMICH SOT AT STATION. POA

REQUESTED I SEPT EE MIEN ME WAS FROCUREMEMT OFFICER AT

THOMPSON-CORMALL INCO, COXCTRUCTIOS CORPAEY IE GUATERALA.

POA GRANTED 29 SEFT 688

LATER COSCELLED. EO SUASEQUENT

RECORD AND NO LEERGO IRACES.

8O JAVAVI FILES CONTAID FOLLOUIGO ITEN UN KERBERT

ITRIES LOUIS DEJOLE PROPOSED VERBERT DIXENS (SIC), 193 PARX

AVE., WEW YORK, AS POSSIBLE CONTACT FOR FURDS AGAIEST

DUVALIER. DEJOIE STATED ITKERS PREVIQUSLY CAVE DEJOLE

S289,000 AHD COULD PROVIDE ADDITIOBAL FIRAGCIAL BACHING SORE

FUTURE DATE. CHAVE 8792, GULLY GAS

9. JAVAVE FILES CONTAIN POLLONING I IDITS ON BARBARD

CALSO BERMARD) COLLIERE MAS OCCASIONAL COSTACT OF ARCARBOR!

SECRET

e "tea'"

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SECRET

PAGE FIVE JIRGAVE I4G9 SECRET

IN 1954-65.

HAD SERIES OF EXCLUSIVE INTE VIENS WIIN FDEL

CASTRO IN SUMMER 1964, ECAPENTED UPON IN WALE 8E4D,

17 AUGUST 64. WORKED FOR NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE

„AT THAT

TIME• DENIED CUBAN VISA IN FALL 1965. ALLEDEDLY WROTE

REPORE ON FOREIV PROCUREMEMT IN U.S. OF I-28 AIRCRAFT

CRITICAL OF WOFIRM AND LHERGO IN 19GE. THIS DOCUMENT NAS

OFFERED FOR SALE TO A STATION CONTACT BY LOCAL MOTEL

OPERATOR, BILL THOMPSON IN OCTOBER 19G68 #O OFFER WAS HADE

AND MATTER DROPPED.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 46

14-00001

DEPT OF STATE DOCUMENT

OFFICE OF TIE CHIEF OF

PROTOCOL

LATE: 30 JUNE 1966

CLASSIFICATIO:: LONE GIVEZI

SUBJECT:

PRESIDENTIAL TELEGATIO!: TO THE

TRAUGURAL CEREMOUTES AT SANTO DOMINGO, D.R.

---

## Page 47

14-00000

DEPARTENT OF JUSTICE LOCUENT

REGISTRATIO: STATEMENT (REGIS. NO: 1774

NAME OF REIGSTPANT:

JEAN ANTOIE MAY SOLTE, AKA

MAX FOLTE

DATE: NOT LEGIELS

CLASSIFICATION: ONE GIVEN

---

## Page 48

14-00001

FBI DOCIENT

DATE: 4 AUGUST 1964

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: LOUIS DEJOIE

FBI FILE NO: 105-31601 (NEN TORK)

---

## Page 49

• DIRECTOR

34-

SECRET

201-240453

2 !

31

ROUTING

151

16

Cell cited te

FROM .

ACTiONs

ViH 8

80021T7

• INFO

DOP, SCO 6, CA 2, CA/O 4, 51, FI/INT 2, CA/SA 8, VEDA.

RISINTS

SECRET QJZIB3Z

DIR INFO PRIN CITE MAVE 8792

CAits

PIZZ

13J6m20815

P

Y

DYVOUR PBRUMEN

REF: WAVE 8541 CIN

15961)

*CAL

L. DEJOLE LEFT 32 JUNE 6A FOR VISIT NEU YORK AND TALX JOAQUIN

R

BALAGUER RE LATTER'S COLLABORATION DEJOIE OPERATIONS AGAINSI HAITI.

WILL PROBABLY VISIT WASH BEFORE RETURN MIAMI. PRIOR LEAVING, DEJOJE

Y JOINED FORCES WITH EVLUCID-LO UNTIL DEPARTURE, DEJOLE AND EVLUCID-I

WERE PLANNING ORGANIZATION OF HAITIAN GOVT FOLLOVING TAKEOVER BUI STILL

NOT SUCCESSFUL IN MUSTERING WHEREVITHAL MOUNT INVASION.. (SOURCE:

VOAMBER-3 AND UOAMBER-6 COMBINED.)

2. DEJOIE SAID HE MET ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO IN SDOM EARLY JUNE AND

• 0

p CLAIMS GUTIERREZ SAID HE HAD CUBAN EXILE ARMS CACHED IN IGUANA ISLAND

Y

BUT USE OF ARMS FOR DEJOIE FORCES NOT POSSIBLE WITHOUT KUBARK APPROVAL:

R

R

P

Y

R

201-240488

DEJOIE GETTING SAME STORY OTHER CUBAN EXILE GROLS.

(SOURCE: 241-240453

21292739

1 36-124-2513

RI COPY

1OR 8389

RENOWN ON S HE TAN THE EUNG ORCE ROMEO

AND UNTON SPOTLE THAN THE SUNG DARICE IS PROMANE

Cosy Na

1331/

1781836565

---

## Page 50

LCANDER-6, 29 JUNE.)

.30 ON L JULY E-S CONTACTED BY ELISEO GOMEZ, EUSINESS PARTNER OF

TEOFILO BABUN, CUBAN SHIPPING MAGNATE WHO NOW OPERATING IN MIALI: AND

PROBABLY INVOLVED CONTRARAND ACTIVITIES. COVEZ TOLD E-I THAT GONEZ

REPRESENTED GROUP WHO ABLE TO KELP E-S IN OPS AGAINST HAITI AND WOULD

COLLABORATE IN RETURI FOR HAITIAN BASES. E-S ASKED VOAMBER-S

OPINION GONEZ, VAS TOLD THAT HE BUM ANDEALING WITH GONEZ GROUP SURE

TO END IN FAULURE IN VIEN FACT BABUN AND COMPANY AFTER MONEY ONLY AND.

WITHOUT SCRUPLES. HOULD PROBABLY LEAD E-! ON FOR ADVANCE ON ARMS, THEN

NOT DELIVER MID-STREAM. (SOURCES U-3 FROM E-L, L JULYS.

4. CONTACIS PROPOSED BY DEJOLE FOR INNEDIATE FUTURE INCLUDE

HERBERT ITKENS, BS PARX AVE., NEH YORK, IN EFPORT OBTAIN FUNDS SOR

ANTI-DUVALIER OPERATION CDEJOLE SAYS ITKENS PREVIOUSLY GAVE DEJOIE

5200,000 AND HAY PROVIDE ADDITIONAL BACKING SOME FUTURE DATEOÀ DEJOIE

ALSO PLANNING APPROACH EDWARD JOSEPH, 17 BAITERY PLACE, NEW YORK.

(JOSEPH APPARENTLY LEGAL COUNSEL FOR BALAGUER AND DIEGO BORDAS.)

WILL PROBABLY ATTEMPT OTHER CONTACIS MIAMI AREA ON RETURN. (SOURCES

VOAKSER 6) •

SECRET"

---

## Page 51

-CLAES.EEO MESSACE"

SECRET

2151a0r

65: EN DISCUSSING FRAICIAL SUPPORT HAITIAN OPS DEVOIE SAID EX-DO%

GEN LUIS REINISO TRUJILLO PASSED DUVALIER $323,8B8, LATER GAVE

ADDITIONAL SIAO, BOB FOR DUVALIER PROTECTION TRUJILLO CLAN. DEJOIE

DID NOT REVEAL WHEN FUNDS PASSED BUT SAID USED BY DUVALIER FOR PURCHASE R

WEAPONS IN EUROPE. (SOURCES UOAMBEROS, ?8 ,JUNE.)

SECRET

C/S COMENTE • GAVE SUMARY DEJLIE ACTIVITIES FOR 24 AND 25 JUNE GA.

UOR>

YOR>

1-24 1 388

_SECRET

WE DONE RI CORLEE

---

## Page 52

14-00000

FRI DOSTIENT

DATE: 19 FEERUARY 1964

CLASSIFICATIO!: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: JAN ANTOINE NAX SOLTE

FBI FILE NO: 97-1576 (NEN YORK)

ten neede

---

## Page 53

14-00000

Musicatitica Port alrince

1+I3

lenge Grain: 39'e.

_CAiete:10

Sensesar ion with Ipaye: on 3 dezober 1963 with bes ten (lair: plies!

I called on ICE::

it the hene of his son-in-lay in zartAl..

far. out pretious reciin?.

in lsy of this year, and

cordial.

that he was in CriTTA! and was

to 'es Yord for the purpose of raiing

the situation of his fillovers

Ineir and to see if he could obtain support for raintaininy his activist

following in the Dr.

Travel helieves that it has nos been proven

that no reliance

could be placed on any cá the liaitian rilitary:

CNLESH/1

is covirasly

finistoo; ELITEll is uncilling in act without positive inaronices of

chicle support; colonel Arrand is alie bur real; and renoral "cucicaut

colonel pianbi is a pood ran bur is boing surrented ty

the forinican roveranent." If aryahira cllective is

be conc,

rust te done through non-rilitary personalities.

leacer uno has the suprort of the jeople can do anythina effoctive.

I'a he been in charge of thu EVLaS:1 effort, the roasants would have

rallied to the invadina forces, bus incy bill not do so to a force

IDEN-A's camp

is still in cxistence in the CR and contains

70 uch at present.

ision, stese

are FLUTEly and lienti

Clerroat.

He said that EVLUTEl4 is able but sorewhat erratic and he (Inton)

Icars that he rould accopi support fror may sourco including the

Corminisis, though he knous that EWÜTE/d is not hirself a coirunist.

lie likchise mistrusts the EVLUTE croup because its Icadership 1s too

irain, he does not believe that the rorbers of

•EVLUTE are thenselves Corrunists, but they atterpted to obtain suppert

fron jexican Coarunists.

4. IDEN-A concerned at the sorent in obtainin? support to challe

- him to continue feeding she men in his camp.

l'e said that he has been

infored that the former followers of EVLUS/l are now flocking in,

thus placin; an intolerable burden en his slit rescurces.

fow thousand dollars foR food supplies and hopes to get sore help in

Now fork from CARE of sore other philanthropic organization.

IDEX-A regrets the overchrol of the bosch acveriment.

that he is arare of

Bosch's shortconings as an airinistrator, hut that

he had the interests of

Dominican Repuhlic at heart and had

demonstrated his sympathies for IDEN-A and his

inllowers. revertheless,

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLETINIER201-240453

11 90

Hitpation

Ectober 1963

MOS FRE NUMBER

CS COPY:

CECI= I

DiRE

W1/6

201-210153

ORIGINATI S

lorran rescerervo

iar

IFRESTUELR

DATE

CE=CER 50.119

EOUTING

RID/AT

I-M.

1270

(IXITIAL

Da!!

341-336848

C/HE

90863

D132A764

i means

---

## Page 54

14-00000

CO:N11KCN C

11624.05

177: 6.7

Colas i recriated io see tradear

Hi? 0. 60109 L0 C10216 116 518

Te also is a

at laterer this

1T161A

6..

privats

andividuala.

¡editinnt further arcatiay then:

cader than ao say liat they bore not the care carseas ho had surparta,

rusal win had been countina on the support of tasierter.

This

support had not been forincerina due to the fact that certain of the

sitions end Cubans that vasferior vas sunaged to rrovide, repisod to

noti with dosferret.

surrortors' air is to usc laith

as a unse ioninst Cuña, lie agrees this should de dene.

Ira-a is certain that Carrian informed allAYA di rVluCH/l's

To ve said tiar carrido las aecly and Mould take monor fios

any scurce.

ô.

InDian says that OpYDiE plans to send a neu arbassacon to

laits kill

greatly serengthen

known

tric

anietntent.

lie said this

fact is

and has caised considerable disaranintnont arong exiles. (1

Duie no corrent on this.)

S. IDIY-A had sanico te iring ticso matters to tha aitention of

IDEi-3.

le has no selfish arbition.

In outlco.,

He is a Catiolic

and a capitalist dio raits

to do that te

can for his country.

Ti: is

is his sole ronson

for ranting te be fresident.

I caplained

tiat his

viers would be made knowm to IDE:-B mid other interested sonior officiali

1P-B rearsitco not being able to tali to hir corsonally, but tis

prevented

Jon dolnt so at present que to tic vant doraris

on his tire

enused by the presont critical situation in the Caribbcan.

10.

cut parting nas cordial and IDEY-A said that whor he

returned to the DP. in the next lew days, he roulo be glad

to estahlish

contact with one of oy associates should ve desire to do this.

soid him that should it be nocessary to sot in touch with hir, the

person chosen

would identify hirsolf as ry friend.

END OF DISPATCH

• Distribution:"

-Original & 1 - Port au Prince

IDEiS (U/S/C)

ir..

said so got in

side s

TORM 585

4.80

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGENO.

CONTINUES

---

## Page 55

FET DOCILENT

DATE: 21 AUGUST 1963

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUEJECT: : PIOS DEJOIE - FSGISTRATION ACT - HAITI

FRI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

---

## Page 56

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE : 6 AL'S É3

1O

• CIRECTOR

30

FECIA I DODS

ACTION WHÖ. (WiT& IW NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

1715 6 AUG EPS 1.4

INFO

DOP, ADDP,

SOR 6, 0ODS/L, DODS %, CA 2

CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, Co/OPS, ci/IC 2, r1,

51/0, F1/INT, 10, D0/1, AD/CI 2, RF 2.

14:

161

AUG 6 218ZZ 63

PRIORITY

IN 94397

PRITY DIR CITE DODS 8466

INTEL

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO. WUARVOR/1 WHO RECEIVED HIS INFORVATION BY PHONE ON

6 AUGUST 1963 FROM ARTHUR HAAS, PRESIDENT OF CARIBZEAL MILLS, CHNER OF

THE BIGGEST FLOUR MILL IN HAITI WHO RESIDES IN DALLAS. HAAS OBTAINED

THIS INFORMATION ON 6 AUGUST FROM HERBERT. ITKIN, A NEW YORK CITY LAWTER

WITH THE FIRM ITKIN, ROBERTS, AND GREENBAUM. ITKIN TOLD HAAS THAT HE

REPRESENTS LOUIS DEJOIE, ONE OF. THE HAITIAN EXILE LEADERS, AND GAVE.

HIAS TO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS INFORMATION COMES FROM DEJOIE. ITKIN TOLO

• HAAS THAT, BECAUSE ALL OF THE HAITIAN EXILES ARE NOW WORKING TOGETHER,

HE REPRESENTS ALL OF THE EXILES AS WELL AS DEJOIE. HAAS TOLD WARMOR/I

THAT CARIBBEAN MILLS WOULO BE WILLING TO CONTRIBUTE TO SUPPORT THE

INVASION OF HAITI IF IT LOOKS AS THOUGH THE INVADING FORCE WILL SUCCEED

TW COMMENTI

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHEO

TO PORTION OF THIS CAGLE HAS EJETS

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY POrCiA

GAL HAT TY THE AGTION LINT.

TDCS

PRECIDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEASING INO:

Csir 36-1-16

DATE DISTRIÊUTED:

BASED ON

SECRET

LIAISON:

EXCIUDED FADA

DOWNERD:

AUTOMATI

что

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHLETED.

Copy Ns.

d";.

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SECRET

10

72J:4 8

ACTION

3

16

PAGE 2

IN 94397

TOES

AND IF ALL OF THE OTHER COMPANIES CONCERNED CITRIBUTE. WARMOR/I HAS

ASKED DODS WHETHER KUBARK WOULD ADVISE THAT. HIS COMPANY CONTRIBUTE ALSO.

CODS UNDERSTANDS KUJUMP DALLAS OFFICE RECEIVED SIMILAR AND AMPLIFIEO

REPORT FROM HASS DIRECTLY AND THAT THIS REPORT HAS BEEN PASSED BY

KUJIMP. TO HOS BY PHONE. MOS MAY PREFER DISSEM AS FROM HAS ONLY AND

OMIT WUAFSORI. REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO

DISSEM AEROAD CONTROLLED DISSEM. HAITI

SUBJ: -HAITI INVADISE FORCE

DOI: 6 AUGUST 1963 PADA: OMIT PLACE ACQUIRED 6 AUGUST 1963

APPR: DEFER HQS. UNC-22 SOURCE: AMERICAN BUSINESSMAN WITH INTERESTS

IN HAITI (F) FROM A SECOND AMERICAN BUSINESSMAN WHO OBTAINED THIS INFOR-

MATION FROM HERBERT ITKIN, NEW YORK ATTORNEY WITH THE FIRM OF ITKIN,

ROBERTS, AND GREENBALM WHO SAID THAT HE REPRESENTS LOUIS DEJOLE AND

ALL OF THE HAITIAN EXILE LEADERS.

ITKIN GAVE THE IMPRESSION THAT LOUIS

DEJOIE IS HIS SOURCE FOR THIS INFORMATION.

sW COMMENT.

TDES

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEASING IWO,

DATE DISTR:BUTEDE

SUSED ON:

LAISON:

ICiL'OLO

SECRET

200

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

Matre cats race

---

## Page 58

14-00000

cuttle i

CENTRAL IITELLIGENCE AGENCY

F.6G.0216

raiden do dear orali

CONFIDENTIAL

¿Where Folded Arse

CLASSILIC OICE - DISSEMINATION CONTLOS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORE RiO. TDCS

DATE D:I2

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

ex 94397

FIELO REPORT NO.

THiS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. THE FORCE INVADING HAITI OU 6 AUGUST 1.963 REPRESENTS 2LL OF

THE HAITI EXILES AND IS NOT REPRESENTATIVE ONLY OF THOSE ASSOCIATED

WITH LEON CANTAVE. ACCORDING TO LOUIS DEVOLE, HAITIAN EXILE LEADER

THE PRESIDENT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES SOME TIE AGO

ARRANGED THAT ALL OF THE HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS SHOULD ACT TOGETHER AS

• ONE BODY.

2.. THE FORCE IS COMPOSED OF 5ES ARMED MEN RATHER THAN THE 25R FIRST

REPORTED BY THE PRESS. THE GROUP MAS 1588 ARMED MEN STANDING BY, (FIELD

COMMENT. WHERE THE GROUP IS STANDING BY IS NOT STATED.)

CUSSIFICATION - DiSSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

INA DIA IRONTPRCSI MANY AIR

ost ! ccR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

RS. IKA OISOLSTE PRIVIOUS EDITIONS.

623-553

---

## Page 59

14-00000

Condia

(5967L9E)

TDCS.

0L397

SO THE FORCE MUST FEISE U.S. $25D, EDE. IN. ORDER TO MAKE THE INVASION

SUCCESSFUL, HALF OF THAT AMOUNT HAS ALREADY BEEN RAISED IN EUROPE.

HERZERT ITKIN, A NEW YORX ATTORNEY REPRESENTING LOUIS DEJOLE AND OTHER

HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS, IS PHONING AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN IN AN ATTEMPT

TO RAISE THE OTHER HALF.

•.:!

*'.

ASSICAN BE VEN COSTAS

ONFIDENTIAL

(BIES FELLED Bi)

6022 2-1

VE MIXONS

Ex000

NS. 2-18

COL NUATION OF TOES ADiNATION LEPORT

aided ini.

i:."

-020

4140244

---

## Page 60

STATE DEPT DOCUMENT - LEVORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

DATE: 22 WA: 1953

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUEJECT: /IN'S OF HAITIAN OPPOSITION LEADER LO!IS

FILE NO: 819192

---

## Page 61

14-00001

DEPT. OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE LNFORVATION FEPOPT

DATE: 16 MAY 1963

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL - NO FOREIGN DISSEY

SURJECT: HAITIAN GOVERMENT IN EXILE

REPORT NO: 2231011563 (Puerto Rico)

---

## Page 62

14-0000

!?:

FROM:

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

Mano

.

•010

61088

ГТРЕ

CT109

d.

TRUE MAME

(Last)

SECRET

DOTE: SEE INSTRUCTION. ON REVERSE SIDE TYPE OR PRINT

Tune AGAress

OFFICE

¿ата

DÁ-0

PHONE

PiLE

• BESTRICTID

CHARGE

(PIROD)

(Middlo)

5.

208

но.

BeNE VARIANTS AND TELECODES (DE

(Firet)

i Biona, iles 6)

(Middlo)

TUAL AGORESS

Fi-5

SEX

13. 50L

19. DOCUMENT SYMBOL & NUMBER

DATE

In RESTOCACE

17. COMMENTS (rext lor Indes corda)

Meland tort do not coot to poto do too Datoo do the Chem ot

cure, Galette a Ganesharic

A. COUTTRY OF LOCATION

21.

INTORMATION ADDRESSEES

2. CRYPTONYM

28. SIGMATURE OF REQUESTER

CODE

VCRM 831

DOSOLETE PREVIOUS

0-63

19. ACTION DESK

HAND CARRY OR FORWARD BY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE.

CHO

SECRET

201 мо.

924368.

ziot

one. nois

---

