# 104-10302-10028

## Page 1

nan

1104-10302-1002

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

More pages

because of.

cover sheets that

were left out.

Before

---

## Page 2

13-00000

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

21 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1. Iraq

2. Indonesia

a. The new 21-man cabinet ap-

pears to be a coalition of Arab

nationalist elements including four

members of the moderate wing of the

Baath Party.

The regime is still

dominated by the military, with eight

cabinet posts.

b. The new prime minister,

Tahir Yahya, is sympathetic to the

Baath Party, and both the Baathists

and the Egyptians feel they can

trust him.

c. The political affiliation

of eight of the new ministers is

not known, but the key interior post

1s in the hands of an anti-Baathist

nationalist.

a. Defense Minister Nasution

has been ordered by Sukarno to make

conciliatory statements on Halaysia

while on

his trip abroad.

b.

The Dutch charge who re-

ported this explained that Nasution

was chosen for this job because

Sukarno was irritated with the ultra-

tough line the defense minister has

taken.

NBR

WBR

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

218R

---

## Page 4

13-00000

3.

Congo

181

108

C.

The chargé has no informa-

tion on the motives behind this

switch. Our embassy thinks it may

be a move to pave the way for explora-

tory talks by foreign Minister Suband-

rio at Bangkok with his Thai and

Philippine counterparts. It may

also

be meant to provide a more recep-

tive attitude for Nasution's visit

here.

d.

Our embassy thinks Nasution

went in for his Malaysia sabre rat-

tling on Sukarno's orders, or at

the very least, with the president's

tacit support.

Sukarno may feel

Nasution has stolen some of his

thunder.

Adoula still did not get

around to announcing the expulsion

of all Soviet and Czech embassy per-

sonnel yesterday. However, his

people managed on Tuesday afternoon

to corral and hog-tie the Soviet

counselor and press attaché before

they could eat-up all the incrimin-

ating papers in their possession.

The Russians are now being

held at Ndolo prison..

The Congolese

surete says the seized papers include,

lamong other things, minutes of a

"Iberation committee" meeting of op-

position politicians in Brazzaville,

and a document showing Soviet pay-

ments to this group.

NBR

NBI

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

Z1BR

---

## Page 5

13-00000

4. Ethiopia-

Congo

1!%

C.

The Belgian ambassador

thinks these papers are probably

genuine.

He says the Russians have

made the mistake of underrating the

Congolese and have stumbled into a

surete trap.

d. The Congolese also picked

up two Czech diplomats but have since

released them.

This morning they

arrested the correspondent of the

Soviet news agency.

Haile Selassie is planning

to withdraw all Ethiopian troops

from the Congo in January, according

to the commander of his ground forces.

b.

The two battalions of

Ethiopians provide the guts of the

UN operation.

They had been slated

to stay until June and are likely to

be very difficult to replace.

c.

The Emperor reportedly

ordered the withdrawal on grounds

that the troops are urgently needed

in Ethiopia, particularly in view

of the soviet military accord with

Somalia.

d. Our ambassador has asked

to see the Emperor, as well as the

prime minister and

foreign minister,

to press for reconsideration.

NBR

N

For The President Only - Top Secret

Z1BR

R

---

## Page 6

13-00000

5.

Yemen

6. Turkey

a.

Military activity has

slackened but the stalemate continues.

b. Egypt still has about 32,000

troops

in Yemen, and Saudi Crown

Prince Faysal belleves Nasir will

not withdraw any significant number

of them before 4 January when the

extension of the disengagement agree-

ment expires.

c.

Faysal is preparing to re-

sume ald to the royalists at that

time; he is stockpiling quantities

of arms and ammunition along the

border.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. The opposition Justice

Party, heir of the old Menderes re-

gime, appears to have won a victory

in Sunday's nationwide local, elec-

tions on the basis of incomplete re-

turns.

b. The collapse of Prime Min-

ister. Inonu's coalition government

appears increasingly likely.

Though

a new coalition may be formed, there

will be considerable resistance to

the retention of Inonu as prime min-

ister.

NBR

NBR

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

ZIBR

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Justice Party members will

be putting on pressure for early

national parliamentary elections.

However their party leaders do not

believe the Turkish military, which

ousted Menderes in 1960, would per-

mit them to take over if they won

new elections.

d. They will probably try to

work out some rapprochement with the

armed forces.

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

LIBR

---

## Page 8

13-00000

NOTES

A. Cuba

The U-2 which flew yesterday's mission over

Cuba crashed while returning, about 40 miles north

of Key West. Air and sea rescue craft were sent to

the scene. An air rescue unit sighted an unopened

parachute, a life raft, and oil slick in the crash

area.

The pilot is presumed lost.

There is no 1n-

dication that the plane was attacked.

B.

Berlia

Local East German troops acting without

higher authority appear to have been responsible

for turning high powered searchlights on pilots tak-

ing off from Nest Berlin's Tempelhof airfield on

14-16 November.

There were five such incidents.

message of 16 November instructed border guard ele-

ments to discontinue such acts.

There have been no

further incidents reported since.

C.

Albania-USSR

A Radio Tirana broadcast has accused

T Krustcher of

personally releasing Barghoors for

fear that Moscow's wheat deal with the US might col-

lapse.

The Albanians are on record as preferring

to eat grass rather than to kowtow to the West, but

they are not above eating Chinese wheat acquired from

Western sources.-

D.

Iran-USSR

The Soviet Union's timing seems to be

Government sources have reported that

twin enganed plane was shot down in Iranlan ter

Iranian

Itors arepay by Soviet jet lighters who violated

The Iranians say that the plane

was on a photographic mission in connection with the

NER

NBR

MASR

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

3/BR

---

## Page 9

13-00000

E.

government's land reform drive.

The pilot was injured

and his two passengers were killed.

The incident

comes at a time when Soviet President Brezhner is

visiting Tehran.

He addressed a joint session of

parliament today.

Venezuela

Police seem to have restared order in

downtown Caracas, but terrorism contimes elsewhere.

The slum district of Caracas to which the terrorists

retreated is under virtual martial law. Among other

things, the Dupont paint warehouse at Haracaibo was

set afire and totally destroyed.

World Peace Council

The PC meeting in farsaw next

Thursday may wind up' in another free-for-all. The

Chinese Communist delegation, although not intent on

disrupting the conference, plans to attack the HPC

president's report given to a committee seeting in.

Vienna last September.

The Japanese delegates plan

to give general support to the Chinese and will try

to forestall a vote on the Moscow test ban treaty.

NBR

NBR

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secrat

3/BR

---

## Page 10

13-00000

DOCUMENT OF INTEREST

Debriefing of Professor Frederick Barghoorn

For The President Cnly - Top Secret

---

## Page 11

13-00000

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

20 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

1.

CIAIN

Iraq-Syria

63954;

164101

/

64393,

C,B

conversation witt

manhausers

NBR

Although sporadic gunfire

continued through the night in Bagh-

19p00 dad, the army 1s in control.

ZONoU

b. Arif has plans to announce

the make-up of his cabinet today.

It will probably contain some "mild"

Baathists.

c.

He permitted Syrian strong-

man Hafiz and Hichel Aflag, the

founder of the Baath Party, who were

caught in Baghdad by the coup, to

fly back to Damascus yesterday after

the Syrian radio suddenly stopped

vilifying the newest Iraqi regime.

d. Arif and his colleagues

obviously hope to reach an under- -

standing with the Syrian regime.

We

doubt very much if they are interested,

however, in the meaningful political

and military unity the previous re-

gime was aiming for.

e. An intercepted message 1n-

dicates that Syrian army units, now

In Irag, are getting ready to go home.

f.

The retention of Baathists

in positions of power in Baghdad also

tends to ease the threat to the party

in syria.

(INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 13

13-00000

2.

3.

Venezuela

a.

The Communist effort to

frustrate the presidential election

(1 December) continues.

• An illegal transitter wa

eard yesterday in Caracas callin

for a 48-hour general strike and

urging listeners to arn thenselves

plus

against the Betancourt government.

9624,

interceft.fcom

-19N00

Roving bands of Comnist-

led terrorists sought to enforce the

generally unsuccessful strike with

gunfire.

There were at least nine

deaths (some reports go as high ag

19) •

Guerrilla activity in rural

areas is also being stepped up.

The government has jailed

an added 200

extrenists in the wake

of yesterday's violence and plans

are afoot to detain 1,500 nare.

The army is being held in

reserve in the Caracas area.

(ncludes Intercepts)

South Vietnam

Ton That Dinh, whom we had

earlier identified as the least re-

08

liable of the generals' group, is

trying to use his position as security

minister to build himself an independ-

ent political base.

UBR

(Cont'd)

JIBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 14

13-00000

4. France-Israel

Air trache, Pacis

83 & 0200

30 SexT 63

63

He has been visiting provin-

cial cities

to "explain" the military

takeover and receive expressions of

loyalty.

He has continued to spread

the idea that the coup was largely

his own doing.

C.

Dinh has directed provincial

chiefs to submit to him daily reports

on local politics. (INTERCEPTS)

d. This is going on while

other members of the regime are

squabbling about who should be in

the "council of sages" and what 1t

should do.

He have picked up further

details on the surface-to-surface

missile systen which a French firm

is developing for the Israelis.

b. The fira, Harcel Dassault,

1s to produce and test fire 25 mis-

siles between July 1964 and July

1965. An actual production contract

for perhaps 250 sissiles will be

drawn up late in the period 1f all

goes well.

NBR

(Cont'd)

ISR

For The President Onty - Top Secret

---

## Page 15

13-

000

5.

Bgypt

19 Noo

T005 31565, 064

IN 63025

18N00

C. Design requirements call

for the delivery of a 1,600-pound

warhead to a maximum range of 300

miles with a CEP slightly in excess

of half a mile. A conventional war-

head would not make military sense

under these specifications.

Pamphlets and posters

bitterly lampooning Nasir, espe-

cially for his involvement in Yemen

and Algeria, have appeared on the

streets of Cairo and suez.

b.

Such public expression of

anti-Nasir sentiment is highly

unusual.

c. It is still in a very low

Key, however, and there is no s1gn

organized opposition.

to

d. We do not consider Nasir

be in any imnediate danger of

overthrow, though he could be forced

to modify unpopular policies if the

discontent spreads.

For The President Only - Top Secret

NBR

VER

---

## Page 16

13-00000

6. Bolivia

TOCS 7564,966

l5N00

1N 61659,

Ja Bas

6.17

CID, 19000

7.

Cambodia

by phone fron state,

20No0

a.

The return last week of

Vice President Lechin, who has been

on ice as Bolivia's ambassador in

Rome, will heat things up 1n La Paz.

The city has already wit-

nessed four minor demonstrations

which Embassy La Paz attributes to

left-wingers encouraged by Lechin's

presence.

Lechin, who has ambitions

to replace President Paz, Intende

tour the country to rally his

political forces, now in disarray

as a result of some astute moves

by Paz.

d. If Lechin decides

after

these soundings to come out openly

against the president, he will try

to arrange a series of strikes early

next year to point up his strength.

Shanouk may have finally

painted himself into a corner on US

aid.

NSC

ABR

b. He has followed up yester-

day's emotional public renunciation

with an official request to our embassy

for talks on the subject.

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

Z8R

---

## Page 17

13-00000

ally hou

nEd Haucks

We are always reluctant to

predict just what Sihanouk will do

next, but he may hope, perhaps ex-

pect, that the US will press hin to

retain some of our aid, even on his

terms.

For The President Only - Top Secret

NBR

---

## Page 18

13-00000

NOTES

Congo

A clandestine source tells us that Adoula

"Will finally announce this morning the expulsion of

all personnel of the Soviet and Czech embassies.

CIA

94006

This move has been hanging fire ever since security

Moscow's 1118

officials turned up evidence several weeks ago im-

plicating personnel of these embassies in antigovern

ment activitles.

The Congolese ambassador in Moscow

has been directed to destroy his classified files.

B.

USSR

A new series of extended range missile tests

seems

to be upcoming..

Three Soviet range instrumen-

tation ships left Petropavlovsk nine days ago and

are apparently headed for the more distant Pacific

C

Impact area,

6,500 miles from Tyuratan.

There has

so far been

, no

announcement closing the area. (INTER-

CERTS)

NBR

WER

C.

Sino-Soviet

Pelping has been quick to exploit the

opening provided by Barghoorn's release.

To the

Chinese this affair is an object lesson in how

Khrushchev knuckles under to US pressure without

No getting a thing in reture.

D.

cio, sat

plumstit

08

USSR-Cuba

"The five passenger ships we mentioned In

last Thursday's Checklist have docked and departed.

Some of them brought in rotational troops and all of

them took out Soviet personnel.

We cannot strike a

firm balance on the basis of the evidence we now have,

but it is possible that as many Soviets went out as

came in.

(INTERCEPTS).

74

NIBR

(Cont' d)

F/BR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 19

13-00000

Czechoslovakia-Mali

We have an intercepted message

from the Haffan ambassador in Prague reporting 11-

3D

There were,

the ambassador notes, "only six wounded

on the Malian side." (INTERCEPT)

Japan

Ikeda does not appear to be in any particular

trouble

in tomorrow's elections. The long-range trend

toward the left in popular vote will probably be ap-

parent, but Ikeda's Liberal Democratic Party should

retain a safe majority in the next Diet.

The leftists

have tried to turn rising prices and last week's twin

disasters into election

annunition, but without

marked success.

Indonesia

Djakarta is trying to round up support

for making

Sukarno's little Olympics, the "Games of

Stale, Dipsum

the New Emerging Forces," a permanent thing.

making a pitch along these lines to the Philippine

19N00

ambassador, a high Indonesian official candidly ad-

mitted that Djakarta views this sort of athletic

competition as a means of achieving political ends.

(INTERCEPTS)

н.

Israel

The Israell foreign office says Ben Gurion

580 1s denying the Sulzberger account in lagt Saturday's

Tel AL

New York Times of Ben Gurion's "hints" about experi-

18N00

ments in "military atomics" at Dimona. Ambassador

1t does no

harm to let Nasir worry about Dimona.

Braz11

new round of army promotions and shifts

In comtand are due to be announced Monday. Anti-

Goulart elements fear, probably with good reason,

# TOCS

3/585,25f that their ranks will be further thinned. Congent-

tal plotters on the far right are talking coup yet

19N00

again.

For The President Only - Top Secret

UBR

WBR

NBR

NBR

WBR

SIeR

---

## Page 20

13-00000

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

DATE

INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. _

COPY

OF _

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

DATE

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 21

13-0000g

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

CIA HESTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

22 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 22

907

=... 7

-----

In honor of President Kennedy

for whom the President's Intelligence Checklist

was first written on 17 June 1961

For The President Only top Sura

---

## Page 23

13-00000

For this day, the Checklist Staff can

find no words more fitting than a

verse quoted by the President to a

group of newspapermen the day he

learned of the presence of Soviet

missiles in Cuba.

For The President Only Jap Soonet

---

## Page 24

Bullfight critics ranked in rows

Crowd the enormous plaza full;

But only one is there who knows

And he's the man who fights the bull.

For The President Only -tep Surrer

---

## Page 25

13-0000

THE WHITE HOUSE

OUTGOING MESSAGE

WHASAS

I63

1 PENCE

2A01

CLAESIFICATION

FROM

12/633

INFOR

PAGER

-OF-

WHASA: FORM 12.

T JAN 615

---

## Page 26

13-

3 3,

TOP SECRET DINAR

THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST--22 NOVEMBER 1963

1..

USSR:

Mic Dru

A. "GRIFFON", THE SOVIET ANTIMISSILE DISPLAYED IN THE

Hilites, 7 NOVEMBER MOSCOW PARADE, APPEARS DESIGNED ONLY FOR USE WITHIN

21 Nov

THE ATMOSPHERE.

B. FURTHER ANALYSIS OF PHOTOS OF THE MISSILE INDICATES

IT WEIGHS ABOUT 2,000 POUNDS LESS, AND HAS LESS THRUST THAN

ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED.

C. ITS PROBABLE BEST PERFORMANCE ALTITUDES ARE FROM

50,000 TO 100,000 FEET, AND IT IS NOT THEREFORE COMPARABLE

TO THE HIGHER THRUST NIKE-ZEUS SYSTEM.

2.

CAMBODIA:)

A.

SIHANOUK HAS GIVEN THE FRENCH IN PHNOM PENH FORE-

WARNING THAT HE PLANS TO REVIVE HIS NEUTRALITY GUARANTEE

how.

mach

391

PROPOSALS.

395

B. HE WANTS THE TWELVE GENEVA CONFERENCE PARTICIPANTS

394

BO-4TU TO MEET IN SOME ASIAN CITY; "AT THE GREAT POWERS' EXPENSE, "

Penters

TO WORK OUT A NEUTRALITY GUARANTEE DECLARATION.

102

C. THE FRENCH SAY THEY PLAN TO RESPOND FAVORABLY AND

HOPE WE WILL TOO,LEST SIHANOUK OTHERWISE TAKE THE FINAL IR-

REVOCABLE STEP INTO THE COMMUNIST BLOC.

NBR

NBR

(CONT * D)

Z/BR

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 27

13-00000

TOP SECRET DINAR

FBIS 21

1N66089

Мено

Coe.

Andersa

D. MEANWHILE PEIPING HAS DECLARED IT WOULD GIVE "ALI

OUT SUPPORT SHOULD CAMBODIA ENCOUNTER ARMED INVASION INSTI-

GATED BY THE US OR ITS VASSALS."

E.

• MINISTER OF DEFENSE LON NOL HAS INTIMATED

TO GENERAL TABER THAT THE CAMBODIAN MILITARY DOES NOT APPROVE

OF TERMINATION OF US AID. CAMBODIAN MILITARY OFFICERS HAVE

MADE IT PLAIN THAT THE US RETAINS A RESERVOIR OF GOOD HILL

WITHIN THE COUNTRY'S MILITARY.

3.

NOTES:

A. CUBA-US: A PRENSA LATINA ITEM YESTERDAY DATELINED

NEW YORK, SAYS THE STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR TRAVEL TO CUBA HAS

STARTED ORGANIZING ANOTHER TRIP, HOPEFULLY TO INCLUDE AS

MANY AS 500 STUDENTS THIS TIME. OVER 100 ARE SAID TO HAVE

APPLIED SO FAR.

B. U-2 CRASH: SALVAGE OPERATIONS CONTINUE ON THE

WRECKAGE OF THE U-2. THERE IS STILL NO TRACE OF THE PILOT,

CAPTAIN HYDE, WHO EVIDENTLY EJECTED SOMETIME BEFORE IMPACT.

C.

DEN MARK-USSR: DANISH FOREIGN MINISTER HAEKKERUP,

NER

IN-DENMARK ROCKING CHAIR, EXPRESSING THE HOPE THAT IT WOULD

NOW BE POSSIBLE TO ROCK IN RHYTHM IN BOTH THE KREMLIN AND

THE WHITE HOUSE. APPARENTLY KHRUSHCHEV WILL BE MAKING HIS

SCANDANAVIAN TOUR NEXT SPRING.

• NBR

(CONT ' D)

2/BR

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 28

13-00000

TOP SECRET DINAR

FBIS //

GIWR

7NOU

D.

JAPAN,

YESTERDAY'S JAPANESE ELECTION DID NOT CHANGE

THE GENERAL BALANCE BETWEEN CONSERVATIVES AND SOCIALISTS IN

THE DIET. WHILE IT IS TOO EARLY TO MAKE A DETAILED ANALYSIS,

IT WOULD APPEAR THAT IKEDA'S POSITION WITHIN THE PARTY MAY

BE SOMEWHAT LESS SECURE. THE SOCIALISTS GAINED A FEW SEATS,

BUT FELL SHORT OF THEIR GOAL OF BREAKING THE "ONE-THIRD

BARRIER."

E.

INDONESIA-US:

INDONESIAN OFFICIALS ARE LETTING IT

Dakarts

BE KNOWN INDIRECTLY, VIA THE OIL COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES,

4127

THAT SUKARNO MAY WELL HOLD UP SIGNATURE OF THE LAW RATIFYING

Oft CONTRACTS WITH THE BIG THREE UNTIL THE US POSITION ON AID

TO INDONESIA IS "CLARIFIED." US AID THEY SAY WAS PROMISED

BY WILSON WYATT AS PART OF A "PACKAGE DEAL" FOR SETTLING WITH

THe OIL COMPANIES.

MBR

NBR

2/BR •

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 29

рле

richesen

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

1.

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

==•.

23 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 30

13-00000

1. South Vietnam

Note from Ed Huck

22N00

8. Vletnanese Communist ef-

forts to discredit the new Saigor

regime stayed in high gear this

rees.

b. The number of armed attacks

was off from the high of the previous

week but still some 50% above the

year's weekly average.

C. These attacks have been,

for the nost part, small-scale efforts

directed against the government's

parandlitzry forces in the villages.

They have been designed more for

their psychological impact than for

immediate military gain.

d. & high volume of messages

on Viet Cang nilitary and political

communications nets indicates a prob-

able continuation of this effort.

The new government is re-

sponding by stepping up its own

military sperations.

It is also

setting about the hard job of re-

vamping the Diem government apparatus

and harnessing broader popular sup-

port for the var effort.

I. The generals have been

dealing fairly effectively with

(Cont'd)

For The Fresicient Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 31

coll

CARIBBEAN SEA

LIVETIES

тосеко

TRINIDAD

BRITISH

GUIANA

COLOMBIA

VENEZUELA

BRAZIL

BRAZIL

630730

%

60

NBR

ISR

---

## Page 32

2. Venezuela

orall, tea

godfrey

18.604 63)

their new responsibilitles. There

are, however, a few signs of dissen-

sion within this group and between

it and civilian politicians.

One of the more ambitious

and troublesome figures is the able

but opportunistic General Ton That

Dinh, the new Minister of Security.

He has been travelling about the

country spreading the idea that the

coup was largely his doing and seems

bent on developing his own independ-

ent base of power. He is a man to

watch.

h. The new regime has also

embarked on a purge of high military

officers who sided with Diem during

the Buddhist crisis and failed to

get on the right side soon enough.

(INTERCEPTS)

a.

The death toll from the

terrorist outburst in Caracas last

Tuesday and Wednesday now stands at

about 30.

b.. This is the high water mark

thus far in the campaign of the

Castro-supported Communist extremists

ta disrupt the national elections a

week from tomorrow.

NAR

(Cont'd)

UBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 33

13-00000

The Betancourt government

has struck back hard. Its new uni-

fled command over the security forces,

set up at US urging, passed this

initial,

. test with flying colors.

d. At least 500 extremists

were arrested and the round-up is

still going on.

Their removal will

hamper the Communist drive against

elections in major cities like Caracas.

He now expect the elections

to be held on schedule, & consider-

able achievement under

the circum-

stances:

The elections will be fol-

lowed, however, by a Communist ef-

fort to prevent the March inaugura-

tion of the victor.

f. The

rub here is that none

of the presidential candidates con-

mands President Betancourt's con-

siderable assets for dealing success-

fully with the harsh realities of

Venezuelan politics. The constitu-

tion prevents Betancourt from suc-

ceeding himself.

B. In the background, as

always, looms the military, which

could intervene if the president-

elect shows signs of being soft on

communisil.

NBR

VIBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 34

13-00000

CUBA

Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) Sites

ANA EAST

ntiago de

Remediosg

SAN JULIAN

(Training site)

Isle of Pines

~... Holguin

•Santiago de Cubze •

•U,S-Naval Base

New site

Unchanged site

t.:* Estimated range

NAUTICAL MILES

34095

11 OCTOBER 1989

SECRET

---

## Page 35

3.

USSR-Cuba

BD 0357

22N00

Mil Dio Kelites

OcI 8

justin

note

n/Noo

In the past week we inter- 41

ceptedj cuban military messages which 24

show that cuban interpreters are now

posted at several surface-to-air mis-

sile (SAI) sites on the island.

bo. He think this means that

on-site training of Cubans has begun

on schedule.

Field training is to

last sis months, after which the

SAM system may be turned over to

Castro.

In the past month some

1,500 soviets arrived in Caba. Most

of these were probably SAl experts,

sent to monitor the training.

do. Prior to their coming, we .

had detected no more than a few

hundred Soviet nilitary personnel

entering Cuba since the October

crisis last year.

e. He estimate that at least

15,000, and probably closer to

18,000, have been withdrawn in the

intervening 13 nonths, leaving, very

roughly, 4,000 to 7,000. Those re-

maining are for the most part ad-

visors whose main functions are to

train and supervise Cubans in the

use of weapons turned over to them.

(Cont'd)

ZIBR

For The President Oniy - Top Secret

---

## Page 36

MUNICATION ROUTES BETWEEN

WEST GERMANY AND BERLIN

• Stratsund

manheide

Stende,

Magdeber;

Frenzlau.

SOVIET

praerge

Liebennalde

Wriezen

AST

BERLIN

NE

Jueterbog

#PL LAND

NBR

Cottbus.

DERAL®

REPUBLIC -

OF GERMANY®

rankfu

Elrich

Camartha

serstungen

Probstzeila

Ludwigstast A

ther

4 Grativerst

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

- Rairsad

- Autobahn

-

- Road

Canal

Air Corridor

Corol Points for Allied Traffic:

• Soviet

& Allied

interzonal Border Crossing Points:

1 East

/ West

UNGLASSIFYED

VER

---

## Page 37

4 Berlin

ca 124.

{= All Soviet weapons intro-

daced into Cuba last year have been

dithiram or turned over to the

Calans.

The only significant excep-

tion is the Sal system.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

do. He have had an indication

that Soviet harassment of Allied ac-

cest routes to lest Berlin will shift

this weetend to the air corridors.

bo The Soviet man at the Ber-

~In at traffic control center told

the Allied representatives yesterday.

that soviet transports would be using

the sir corridors for brief flights

durig the next five weekends.

c. Moscow has tried on a num-

ber of past occasions to assert 1ts

right to restrict Allied use of the

zir cortidors.

In early 1964, the

somiets attempted to reserve "blocks"

of air space for their own use. They

have since demanded that Western

fligits stay between stipulated al-

titudes, that we file flight plans

in advance and provide prior notice

of berder-crossing times.

(Cont ' d)

For The Fresident Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 38

5.

Iraq-Syria-

UAR

511

Bagdad

d. This sort of harassuent

stopped in the spring of 1962 when

Soviet leaders became convinced

that the Us was interested in a

serious discussion of a Berlin settle-

ment.

Moscow may hope that the

threat of more of this sort of har-

assment will jog the US into talks

on Berlin.

It now appears that Pres1-

dent Arif's role in last Monday's

coup in Baghdad may have been vir-

tually that of a bystander.

b. According to our latest in-

formatIOn, arli was wakened early

that morning and given five minutes

to join up.

Tahir Yahya, now prime

minister, was reportedly the orga-

nizer.

c. Whatever Arif's role may

have been, the coup was primarily

an effort by the Iraqi Army to cur-

tail the activities of the extreme

wing of the Baath Party.

The Baath

is an Arab nationalist political or-

ganization, active throughout the

Arab world, which has been ruling

Irag and Syria.

NBR

(Cont 'd)

I/DR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 39

13-00000

CIB, RING

TOES 3565, 576

CIB

d. The coup group has not

thrown all Baathists out of the

government; there are party members

in the new cabinet.

•. Syrian Baathists have wel-

comed this retention of their Iragi

brothers..

Their attitude springs

from the recognition that the Baath

In Syria cannot stay afloat without

support from Irag.

Even so, we hear

talk of coup plotting in Damascus.

f. The reaction of Nasir's

Egypt, which passionately desires

has been

backing off its all-out support for

the coup ever since the new cabinet

was announced..

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

NBR

1/BR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 40

SOVIET EXTENDED: RANGE IMPACT AREAS

TYURATAM

APPROX.

4900

NM

APPROX.

6500

.N

M

NORTHERN

IMPAG

AREA

C

C

C

SOUTHERN

IMPACT

AREA

NBR

TOP SECRET

DINAR

33741

VIBR

---

## Page 41

13

NOTES

cL

s0N00

A. USSR: New activity involving Soviet range instru-

mentation ships in the Pacific appears to be forth-

coming. Three Instrumentation ships left Petropav-

lovsk 12 days ago and are apparently headed for the

more distant Pacific impact area, 6,500 miles from

Tyuratam.

tests but we do not exclude a space event. There

has so far been no announcement closing the area.

(INTERCEPTS)

B.

COngo-USSR

Soviet embassy personnel have not yet

leit Leopoldville, but their departure is expected

momentarily.

They were ordered out of the country

after the Congolese turned up good documentary evi-

dence of their complicity in anti-government plots.

TOES

One of the items taken off a Soviet diplomat the

3/565, 591

other day was a letter from an anti-Adoula leader

ay was a letter

now in Brazzaville asking for funds and arns to over

throw the Leopoldville government.

Britaile

The Labor Party scored again in the Dundee

west by-election Thursday, increasing its 1959

prions

majority of 719 to & thumping 4, 955.

Heartened by

niN@ this, Labor is now pushing for general elections at

R9

once.

Prime Minister Home is not likely to accede.

Ecuadori

The military junta which has run Ecuador

60-A3,284.

ugsince July may be about to come unstuck.

Te have a

report that one of the less savory nembers of the

group, alr force Colonel Freiles, will try to take

over

full control this weekend.

He are not sure

clue

of the reliability of this report, but Freiles is

8 Nor

known to have been making motions in this direction.

NBR

NSR

NBR

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

(Cont' d)

4/BR: .1

---

## Page 42

SECRET

..

45144

SOVIET EARTH SATELLITE VEHICLES - COSMOS SERE

1962 •1963

APPROXIMATE TIME

OF LAUNCH (GMT)

12:00,00 (EST.)

16 Mar °62

1715:18

6 Ape '62

0400:12

24. Apr °62

1002:56

26 Apr '62

0259:49

28 Moy '62

1600:00 (EST.)

30 June '62

0918:30

28 July '62.

0500:00 (EST.)

18 Aug '62

APOGEE

(N.M.)

0940:00

27 Sept '62

0900:01 (EST.)

17 Ocr '62

0655:00 (EST.)

20 Oct '62

0924:40

22 Dec '62

24 May '63

0600:00 (EST.)

6 Aug '63

0929:58

18 Oct '63

24 Oct'63

0623:39

11 Nov '63

1034:25

16 Nov '65

LAUNCH

SITE

1962

PERIOD

(MINUTES)

opustin Yor

98.35

Kopustin Yor 102.5

Kopustin Yor

93.81

Truratar.

90.6

Kopustin Yor 102.75

Kapustin Yor

Tyuraram

Kopustin Yor

Truratam

Trurotar.

Kopustin Yor

Tyuratar

Tyuratam

Kopustin Yar

Tyrraram

Tyuraram

Kopustin Yor

Tyuratat.

Kopustin Yor

ivurata-

Kopustin Yor

ivurare-

Tyurarc-

90.6

90.1

92.93

90.9

90.2

96.1

90.45

1963

89.77

92.1

89.T:

90.4

94.8

89.44

92.2

eg.e:

Ee.:

529

842

389

178.

865

194

199

326

19:

205

497

243

182

276

20:

2'8

425

163

280

it:

12÷

PERIGEE

(N.M.)

165

113

132

114

1i:

143

1:3

140

1:3

146

199

=

la erait, sitent

since 31 Moy'63

le orbit,

transmitting

: covers

NBR

VIER

---

## Page 43

E.

8N 66316

22200

panghate

"ee?

LING

"F.

сів

Thailand

Prime Minister sarit, who suffers IrOn

an incurable liver disease, is failing. Doctors

attending him, including one of our own, give him

no more than six months nore.

Sarit has attempted

to arrange for an orderly succession when he does

80.

The chances of this are not good; That poll-

ticians and military figures are already Jostling

one another for position.

Cosmos 22, launched a week ago, was recovered

yesterday.

It is the eleventh unmanned satellite to

be recovered. All recoverable satellites have been

launched fron Tyuratan, the main Soviet missile test

center, and recovered after three to ten days aloft.

A series of non-recoverable satellites has been

fired from Kapustin Yar.

(See Chart)

(INTERCEPTS)

NBR

NBR

2/BR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 44

13-00000

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

4

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT #

•CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO..

COPY.

_OF

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

DATE

Mandle Va

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

ATONAL SECURIM

Unzuthorite

INPORMATION

autosure suuject to Criminat Samettom

TOP SEGRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 45

13-00000

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

24 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

13-00000

1.

North Vietnam

South Vietnam

S/S Vutinie 623

IN66678

Saigon 1068

Is Paris 2506

a. North Vietnamese leaders

are pressing their campaign for neu-

tralization of South Vietnam.

b. They can count on Cambodia's

support. Prince Sihanouk has said

he believes neutralization of South

Vietnam to be the only way to keep

his country and the rest of the area

from falling eventually into Commu-

nist hands.

c. The French feel the same

Indeed, Souvanna Phouma re-

portedly told a closed session of

the Laotian National Assembly that

the French were urging him to sup-

port Hanoi in this.

d.

Moreover, according to one

of our clandestine sources, the North

Vietnamese have talked Souvanna into

backing the neutralization propos1-

tion in the UN.

e. The troublesome Polish ICC

delegate in Laos, Marek Thee (who

will be going home soon), has just

returned to Vientiane from Hanoi and

is trying, with somewhat less suc-

cess, to enlist British support too.

(Cont 'd)

---

## Page 47

13-00000

BURMA

Muang Nany

Dan Salo.

.SBANGKOK

Coo Bang®

Ou Neu

@ Phone Sair

•HUNG:

SALY

Bac kanó

NORTH

Long son o

Thal Mguyan

"Ning ming

HE DE ML RAO

Nomina

Muong SÃi

a has Burn

Haiphong

iLE CAC BA

LUANG PRIDING

Sam Nouga

HOLA PHON

Nast Dinn

Nist Binto

Thanh Haa?

KHOUANG

Evango

Virana.

VIENTIANE

o. Ha Tinh

CAP MUT MON

ong khai

KHAMMQUANE

Nhorrimärath

Udon Than,

Nakhon Phanom

DOOR

Muang Sakon Nakron°

N

D

'se Daaercation Lins

Mukdahan.

avannakher SAVANNAKHET

--3

SOUTH

LAOS

Muang

oYasothon

SARAWANE

VIETNAM

hatenk

International boundary

Province boundary

National capital

Province capital

Railre 1d

Road

Track or trait

50

75

iCo Miles

75 10C Kilometers

UNCLASSIFIED

Warin

Chamran

i& Pakse

Surin

CHAMPASSAN

• Ангореи

ATTOPELi

i Bo kham.

Ban

Aranyapratn

C

AM BODI/A

3urr

Stung Treng,

Boundaries and name on oceant, i

J.S. G

---

## Page 48

13-00000

2. Laos

litians 622,614

Mour 1726

BD .. 1643

Vertai from Hauck

I. As part of the same campaign,

the North Vietnamese have told the

French they believe sentiment is

growing in the US for withdrawal of

Us forces.

They reportedly plan to

keep the heat on to encourage 1t.

Hanoi is at the same time

trying quietly to encourage the belief

that it is ready to be reasonable.

h. To hear Thee tell it, North

Vietnamese leaders feel that neutral-

ity for South Vietnam and eventual

reunification is the only way they,

too, can escape from Peiping's clutches.

a.

As 1s usual in Laos, the

tentative agreement for a cease-fire

reached last week between Kong Le

and Pathet Lao commander Singkapo

came to naught.

b. Each side accuses the other

of planning to use a cease-fire to

screen preparations for larger at-

tacks.

• c.

There 1s scattered fighting

in the

Plaine des Jarres

Lao Army,

neutralist, and Heo guerrilla ele-

ments are jointly engaged in a

limited offensive in the Vang Vieng

NBR

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

VER

---

## Page 49

13-00000

area north of Vientiane on Route 13.

They hope to gain control of that

town and its small airfield.

d. We have been anticipating

an expansion of the fighting with

the recent advent of the dry season.

3.

Cambodia

a. Sihanouk knows his actions

against us have increased his vul-

5/s Paus 2520

nerability to the Communist bloc, and

he is looking to the French to bail

iN 67064,67049

him out.

DIA, 23 NOV

b. He has intinated that aid

from France would be most welcome,

s/s Pluwes Renk 394

and he has asked that French advisors

Phase Peck 404,403

stay on.

30-4277-4803

10-6676

Pet 82, 66,67

22 Nor

He apparently hopes that

the availability of French aid will

enable him to keep his balance with

the Communists and fend off their

pressure.

d.

The French have told our

Embassy in Paris that plans are

afoot for French Defense Minister

Messmer to go to Cambodia in January.

ABD

NOR

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

21BR

---

## Page 50

13-00000

YEMEN

Khamis Mushait

ARABIA

Qizan

Al Muwas

Maydi

• 0

KAMARAN

(U.K.)

Sirwor

. Harl

RED

SEA

Mocha

ETHIOPIA

FR

SOM.

630827 6

UNCLASSIFIED +25

IRAO

U. A.R.

Ras Bonas

SUDAN

Kharloum

SAUDI

Riyodh

jiddo

"Mocco

Taif

ARABIA

'Sano

ETHIOPIA

Addis Ababa

Area of Recent

slashe:

ADEN

220573

---

## Page 51

13-00000

€.

Sihanouk's actions toward

the US have not been universally

popular.

This is particularly true

among government officials, the bus-

iness community (who have reason to

fear stepped-up nationalization),

and the military, where the Us re-

tains a considerable reservoir of

goodwill.

I. Indications are that 81-

hanouk will try to win fuller sup-

port by creating new feuds with

neighboring South Vietnam and Thai-

land.

This is a gambit he has used

to advantage in past difficulties.

4.. Yemen-Egypt

A number of Yemeni leaders

1N64695

to be ate

told us they want the Egyptians

to get out of the Yemen.

They want

Is Tan 30 7, 308306p0 be lait alone to solve their own

Sis Caus 1166

b. This is especially true

of those sheikhs with large tribal

followings.

c. A general uprising against

the Egyptians is not likely at the

moment, but the longer they remain,

the greater the possibility of major

pro-government tribes deserting to

the royalists.

NBR

NBR

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

ZIBR

---

## Page 52

13-00000

1H225400M

PARTY COMPOSITION OF THE ITALIAN PARLIAMENT

OCTOBER 1963

SOCIAL

DEMOCRATS

33

a REPUBLCA

CHAMBER

OF

DEPUTIES

SOCIALISTS

87

CHRISTIAN DEMOCRA

$260

COMMUNI

LIBERALS

39

630

4 OTHERS

8: MONARCHISTS

27 NEO-

FASCISTS

SOCIAL DEMOCRATS 14

SENATE

•SOCIALISTS

44

CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS

1-1337

3 OTHERS

COMMUNIS

LIBERALS

19

315

2 MONARCHISTS

15 NEQ

FASCISTS

83110 - 14

---

## Page 53

13-00000

5. Italy

Reutes i2 2, 154

rebad from

davi Luikke

sAme 1479

1N65830

d. Nasir, with some 30,000

troops in the Yemen, has grudgingly

promised to pull out 5,000 before

the end of the year. So far there

has been no sign he is preparing to

do so.

So far as we can tell,

Faysal has kept to his promise

not

to supply the Royalists before the

latest extension of the UN observa-

tion mission runs out on 4 January.

to But he has made plain his

intention to resume supplying them

thereafter. There has been a sub-

stantial build up of saudi supply

points north of the border.

NOR

The Christian Democrats

and Socialists have finally reached

an'agreement on cabinet assignments

and a program for a "centerleft"

coalition government.

b.

Negotiations were especially

tough,

but apparently President

Kennedy's death acted as a catalyst

to bring the two together.

NBR

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

2/BR

---

## Page 54

13-00000

c. He do not yet have any in-

formation on how differences in key

issues such as lLF were worked out.

d. With Horo premier, Nenni

will probably become vice-premier.

Saragat, who Is pro-Us and pro-NATO,

18 most likely to be named Foreign

Minister.

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

118R

---

## Page 55

13-00000

NOTES

India-USSR

The Indian military attache in Moscow

feels that

the Russians are dragging their feet in

Niu Selhi

the matter of military assistance for India. Mean-

while, we have a report (not yet confirmed)

from

NBR

New Delhi that Defense Minister Chavan has decided

Cx-278-63 to look to us hereafcer for lighter aircratt.

USSB

Our Embassy in Moscow has gotten word of

BRI

strikes recently at Ryazan, near moscow, and in

Leningrad.

The cause of the Ryazan incident is not

note,

clear, but bread shortages apparently were behind

2, Nor

the Leningrad strikes.

Similar disturbances were

Mito

reported last month from several points in southern

iNBR

weeka d6

Russia.

15 Nev

For The President Only - Top Secret

Z1BR

---

## Page 56

13-00000

PIC 25 Nov

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

CIA/ IPC

DATE

INITIALS

NIJ 94-484

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

(#3)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NIJ-083/93 B]

1

COPY

_ OF

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey LBJ Library

DATE

16/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document&will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 57

13-00000

I.BJ LIERARY

Mandatory Leven

Case # NLI 73-381

Document #_3

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

25 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 58

13-00000

1.

South Vietnam

a. Vietnamese Communist forces

kept up their high post-coup level

of activity over the weekend.

The most significant action

was an attack early yesterday morn-

ing against a US special forces train-

Ing camp some 30 miles from Saigon.

C .

When the smoke cleared after

a sharp

fight, four US soldiers were

missing and at least 35 South Vietnamese

were dead.

d. Late yesterday morning, the

Viet Cong shot down two aircraft sup-

porting a government operation in

the extreme south, and damaged twelve

Two more Americans are missing

in this action:

e.

Back in Saigon, the new re-

gime's troubles with the ambitious

General Ton That Dinh continue.

f. He is still angling to get

control of the important strategic

hamlet program and has yet to give

up command of the Third Corps, which

the generals assigned to another of

their number earlier in the month.

This corps is of particular signifi-

cance in that it surrounds Saigon.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 59

13-00000

Manila

y.

Visenan

south

• :

China.

PHALTPPINES

HAILAND

MALAYSIA :

Kuala Lamper ®

BRUNEL.

Sarawak,

à So ni

o SUMATRAS

RI AU

ISLANOS &

N

-Djakarta

BORNEO

N

JAVA

631124

1.119.1.1

OCE.1N

MALAYSIA

CONFIDENTIAL

MILES

34176

+055512200002

2 TIMOR

1000

AUSTRALIA

---

## Page 60

13-00000

2.

Indonesia-

Malaysia

3. Venezuela

a.

Sukarno is beefing up the

subversive aspects of his confronta-

tion campaign against Malaysia.

b. Intercepted Indonesian mes-

sages indicate that regular army

units will shortly begin infiltration

operations across the border into

Sarawak and Sabah.

Seven thousand regular army

troops in Indonesian Borneo, the

messages show, are getting an inten-

sified course in guerrilla tactics.

This training is to be completed

next month.

d. Other messages speak of

the arrival, beginning today, of a

battalion of regulars from Hest Java.

(INTERCEPTS throughout)

The weekend was marred only

by sporadic and minor acts of ter-

rorism in several cities.

Govern-

ment security forces have the situa

tion generally under control.

b.

The Venezuelan Air Force

is stepping up its efforts to track

down and destroy intruder aircraft.

The Venezuelans are convinced that

planes have been ferrying supplies

to pro-Castro guerrillas in the

mountains of the northwest.

For The President Only - Top Secret

NBR

NBR

(Cont 'd)

218R

---

## Page 61

13-00000

72

COLOMBIA

•Maracalbo

"Sen lorearo

" оковий кошу

•El Condón

°Coro

arquitina

1811

ralo.

San Cario

-Garacas

+85771

Rorros

El Cameria.

san Percando?

COLOMBIA

VENEZUELA

J muero serio, ,

6309195

2C6 Mues

BRAZIL

68

(U.K.I

TOBAGO

• Le Asunció

Cardaano,

Port.

TRINIDAD

o Maturia

a locuala

• El Tiera

BRITISH.

GUIANA

AR. GUIAM

BRAZIL

---

## Page 62

13-00000

4. Iraq

5.

Syria

c.

The Betancourt government

has scheduled a press conference

tomorrow to break the story that a

three-ton cache of Cuban arms has

been unearthed. A formal accusation

against Cuba is to be made before

the Organization of American States

a week from today.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

The air of tension in Bagh-

dad dissipated somewhat after the

government lifted the curfew and once

again permitted private vehicles on

the streets.

b. Neither the city nor its

ew rulers are,

however, at ease.

I'roops are still very much in evi-

dence •

C. The new regime apparently

is not convinced that the hard core

of the Baath Party and its paramili-

tary supporters have been put down

for good.

a. We have information that a

showdown between the moderate and

extremist factions of the ruling

NiBR

WBR

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

SIER

---

## Page 63

13-00000

6.

Italy

• -

b. A clandestine source identi-

fies Prime Minister Hafiz as the

leading figure on the side of modera-

tion.

General Umran heads the doc-

trinaire extremists.

c.

It was a split along the

same lines that brought about the

Baath Party's fall from power in

Irag.

NBR

2.

Premier-designate Moro ex-

pects that the program for a "center-

left" coalition government will be

approved today by the four parties

involved.

b. Details of the foreign

policy planks are not yet available,

but they were drafted with the

thought that the death of President

Kennedy makes it more important for

Italy to play an active role within

the Western alliance.

c. After the program has been

approved, the final selection of a

cabinet can be undertaken. This

could take the rest of the week.

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

ZIER

---

## Page 64

13-00000

Abha

Qizon

Maydi

CAMARAN

0.4.

Mocha

ETHIOPIA

FRENCH

SOMALILAND

_CAIRO

JORDAN

UAR

(EGYPT)

Asm20.

Ras

Banas

Yenbo®

SAUDI ARABIA

Zahron;

Noiran

Sadah

- Major todd

Oiner rond or track

Horad

UNCLASSIFIED

Abs

Hojiah,

•Umran

Raudha

Marib.

Sirwah

Jihannah

Marib

Al Hudaydah

Ibb

TAIZZ

Octobah

Ad Dali

Al Baydo

ECTORATE,

ADEN

"ADEN

IRAQ.

KUWAIT

NEUTRAL

ZONE

Medina:

SAUDI

ARABIA

seeine

• Khamis Musharl

SAMe.

di Hudaydan°

ETHIOPIA

Al Bayde.

"ADEN

100

6308013

YEMEN

---

## Page 65

13-00000

UAR-Yemen-

Egypt

The Saudis told our embassy

in Jidda yesterday that a saudi vil-

lage near the Yemeni border was at-

tacked Thursday by Egyptian aircraft.

b. It was the second time this

month that Yemeni-based Egyptian air-

craft have struck across the border

into Saudi Arabia.

As in the previous cases,

the Saudis have lodged a formal com-

plaint with the UN Observation Mis-

siOn.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

MBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

V/BR

---

## Page 66

13-00000

A.

B.

C.

D.

%..

NOTES

Oswald

Press stories to the effect that Lee Harvey

Oswald recently visited Mexico City are true, accord-

ing to our information.

Oswald visited both

the

Cuban and the Soviet embassies on 28 September. He

was trying,

we are told, to arrange for visas

SO

that he could travel to the USSR via Havana.

He

returned to the US on 3 October.

Brazil

A new round of military promotions and re-

assignents will be made public today. The present

instability of the Brazilian political scene is re-

flected in the numerous reports of coup plots which

this

event has precipitated.

USSR

At last report the three Soviet range in-

strumentation ships were dead in the water 500 miles.

south of Johnston Island, roughly the same position

they occupied for last year's extended range ICBM

shots. No announcement closing this area of the

Pacific to shipping has been made and there is no

activity as yet at the Tyuratam missile test center,

but we look for some action in the next few days.

(INTERCEPTS)

Algeria

We have a report from a good clandestine

source that a group of army officers is plotting

with Defense Minister Boumedienne to overthrow Sen

A growing estrangement between the two has

been apparent for some time, but this is the first

good indication that Boumedienne is making common

cause with those who wish to turn Ben Bella out of

office.

NBR

24.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

J/BR

---

## Page 67

13-0,0000

!.

•...

E.

G.

Peiping has signed con-

grain to be delivered early next year.

We had been

expecting the Chinese Communists to enter the market,

since they had another mediocre grain crop this year.

Peiping has been buying close to five million tons

of grain for the past several years:

• Congo

He hear that the Soviet Embassy in Leopold-

vITe had booked 75 places on a flight to Brussels

last Saturday.

There is still no information on-

whether any Soviet Embassy officials have actually

departed, however.

Berlin There was no new harassment of Allied ac-

cess routes to Berlin over the weekend. A total of

16 flares were fired last evening near

Tempelhof

Airfield, but we connect these with Communist ef-

forts. to prevent escapes from East Berlin.

East

German police were observed stringing barbed wire

in the same area a short time later.

Laos

The neutralists claim to have made significant

gains in their limited offensive in the Vang Vieng

area.

They have not, however, been able to dislodge

the Pathet Lao from positions within artillery range

of the town's airport.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

NBR

NBR

NBR

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

4/BR

---

## Page 68

13-00000

26 Mov

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

CIA/IPC

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

NLJ 94-494 (#4)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NI~J-084/93 B]

COPY _

1

-OF_

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey/LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 69

13-00000

LE; LIBRARY

Mandatory Review

Case # NLJ 93-381

Document i_

""

i . ;

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

26 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 70

13-00000

i.

1. Iraq-Syria

NBR

...

a.

The shaky new accommodation

between the two countries following

the recent coup in Iraq has been

threatened by Syria's action in grant-

ing asylum to Ali Saleh Saadi, the

exiled leader of the extremist wing

of the Iraqi Baath.

b. Saadi had arrived in Syria

unannounced following a brief stay

in Madrid.

On Friday, Iraq sent a

message asking Syria to expel him on

grounds that sheltering him was a

breach of agreement.

c.

Both regimes continue to be

troubled with internal dissension

with affairs in one deeply tangled

with those in the other.

In Syria, as we mentioned

yesterday, the Baathist regime is

split between moderates who desire

a broadening of the government's

power base, and a doctrinaire faction

which wants to keep all control of

the government in Baathist hands.

e.

In Iraq, the pull is more

away from the Baathists. Two minis-

ters have threatened to resign unless

the government adopts an openly pro-

Egyptian policy. Nevertheless the

government feels secure enough to

ease up on curfew and transport re-

strictions imposed since the coup.

(Cont 'd)

i=a"

IIBR

---

## Page 71

13-00000

Luang Prabang

Phou Khoun

Muong Kassy.

Vang Vieng

Ban Hin Heup

THAILAND

34247

SECRET

• Muong Kheung

&/ Ban Song Hoc

Muong Soui

POUN NINH

Phou Keng •

Muong Phanh.

Lat Houang

Nong Pet

CUCUR KhaY

INE Phong Savan

le Danh!

Xieng Khouang

Bản Bản!

Nong Het

Ban Ta Viang

Ban Namone

Pak Sane

E VIENTIANE

Nong Khai

THAILAND

SECRET

- Road

-- Track or trail

StATuTe MILes

LAOS

631125 2

SECRET

NORTH

VIETNAM

---

## Page 72

13-00000

2.

Laos

NER

1.

Irag has announced that the

military union with Syria remains in

force, and that a new commander of

the joint armies will be announced

•soon.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a.

Intercepted neutralist mes-

sages on Sunday reported that govern-

ment forces had finally secured Vang

Vieng and its airfield, long held

by the Pathet Lao. They also told

of the capture of

Ban Namone farther

south on Route 13.

b.

The neutralist, rightist Lao

Army, and Meo tribal guerrilla forces

hope

to sustain their coordinated

clearing action until remaining Pathet

Lao pockets in this area north of

Vientiane are cleared.

C.

Such operations in Laos

have often been followed by a Com-

munist riposte.

We have a few in-

dicators that something could be up

on the Communist side, but these are

so far very tenuous indeed.

d. One such indicator is a

stand down in the last two weeks on

the Hanoi-controlled military com-

munications net in Laos which could

(Cont'd)

For The Presiden! Only - Top Secret

Z/BR

---

## Page 73

13-00000

i.

South Vietnam

point to a change in the disposition

or strength of Communist forces.

Other enemy nets are normal.

e. There are also unconfirmed

reports of North Vietnamese troop

reinforcements in the Plaine des

Jarres.

(INTERCEPTS)

a. According to press reports,

Viet Cong attacks on Sunday wiped

out two of the government's strategic

hamlets in the central highlands about

250 miles north of Saigon.

b.

More than 1,000 inhabitants

in the hamlets--who are minority

tribesmen--are missing and possibly

have fled into the mountains. They

abandoned a significant quantity of

weapons to the Viet Cong.

c. These attacks not only sug-

gest continued erosion of the govern-

ment's programs to win over tribal

support, but also signal that stepped.

up Viet Cong pressure against the new

regimé is spreading to the north.

NBR

3.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

MIBR

---

## Page 74

13-00000

22 OCTOBER 1963 ICBM FIRING FROM PLESETSK

SEI

.s...

overro

ICBMs...

9MPACT

: AREA.

liste.

S Ro

TYURATAM iCBM

TEST RANGEHEAD

IRAN

MONGOLIA

CHINA

AFGHANIST.AN

TOPSSECRET DINAR

6310 27

32809.8.80

UBR

NBR

---

## Page 75

13-00000

4.

USSR

• ! :

d.

This Communist effort is

aimed at discrediting the post-Diem

regime before the new leadership is

able to get its feet on the ground

and capture the loyalty and respect

of people in the provinces.

e. Although the Viet Cong still

continues to draw its main strength

from local recruiting, a steady stream

of cadre and training personnel con-

tinues to make its way to the south

from North Vietnam along the Laotian

border.

f.

We are now reasonably sure

that at least 784 persons infiltrated

from the north during 1963 and the

actual total may be much higher.

a. There have been no further

developments in Soviet preparations

for a series of extended range ICBM

shots to the Pacific.

b. We probably should have had

by now an announcement closing an area

roughly 500 miles south of Johnston

Soviets may have delayed it in order

not to appear to be rattling rockets

immediately after President Kennedy's

death.

NER

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

VIBR

---

## Page 76

13-00000

5. -

USSR-Berlin

The USSR may repeat last

year's performance of multiple fir-

ings from a prototype operational

complex at Tyuratam.

Three such

launchings were attempted at five-

minute intervals in May 1963; two

succeeded.

d.

We also do not rule out the

possibility of firings from opera-

tional sites as opposed to the test

center at Tyuratam.

We observed

the first such firing on 22 October

from the Plesetsk site, roughly 400

miles northeast of Moscow.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

NBR

a.

Embassy Bonn feels that

the Soviet Union may be seeking at

least a temporary modus vivendi on

the autobahn without prejudicing

its juridical position, which can

be used to cause difficulties there

in the future.

b.

The embassy bases this on

the Soviet replies to the Western •

notification to the USSR on 29

October regarding harmonized convoy

procedures--two oral statements on

16 November and a note of 21 Novem-

ber.

NER

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

21BR

---

## Page 77

13-00000

repete powerho made to me

F:

6.

Brazil

The Soviet note was designed

to make a record, showing that the

USSR exercises "control" of the auto-

bahn and that the recent incidents

resulted from US refusal to comply

with "existing procedures."

d. On the other hand, the Soviet

procedures described in the oral re-

plies seem to reflect actual Allied

to afford the USSR flexi-

bility in any future actions.

2. The danger of an immediate

coup against the Goulart regime has

receded with the reported decision

of Second Army Commander General

Bevilaqua not to join the coup plot-

ters.

b. Bevilaqua, who has been

some-

thing of a storm center, may have

asked to hand over

his command

today as part of a series of reassign-

NBR

NBR

On the other side of the

coin, there is widespread belief

that

Goulart himself will at some

an authoritarian regime.

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

ZIBR

---

## Page 78

13-00000

UBR

d. As one example Raneiri.

Mazzilll, President of the Chamber

of Deputies and next in line for the

presidency, told Ambassador Gordon

on Saturday that he profoundly mis-

trusts Goulart's intentions and in-

tends to maintain the strictest con-

gressional vigilance.

e.

Our station in Brazil be-

lieves that Goulart is living in a

dream world. He seems either out

of touch with reality or very poorly

informed. Public opinion is not

with him and the tradition that po-

litical power should only be trans-

ferred constitutionally is very

strong in the army, coup reports

notwithstanding.

f. The biggest danger from

this quarter is that the opposition

may resort to some illegal act, giv-

ing Goulart the excuse to take

over.

For The President Only - Top Secret

1/BR

---

## Page 79

13-00000

A.

B.

D.

NOTES

Ethiopia-Congo

Haile Selassie has acceded to our

ambassadors request and is rescinding his earlier

decision ta withdraw the 1, 743-man Ethiopian con-

NBR

tingent from the UN force in the Congo.

communist China- Africa The Guinean ambassador

in Peiping has it unofficially that Premier Chou En-

lai will leave in mid-December for a tour of some

Afro-Asian countries.

He is to stop first in Egypt

and then visit several other African countries includ-

ing Guinea, Ghana, and Mali. Chou would be the high-

est ranking Chinese leader ever to visit Africa. (IN-

TERCEPTS)

Indonesia-Philippines

Two good sources have reported

that President Sukarno plans to go to Manila this

•Thursday to confer with Philippine President Macapagal.

No reasons have been advanced for the visit. Our

chargé guesses that it is an Indonesian move to head

off Philippine recognition of Malaysia.

Venezuela

The terrorists have struck again, this

time firing six US-owned oil and gas pipelines near

the northeastern city of Puerto la Cruz.

The elec-

tions are still on for Sunday, and we look for a maxi-

mum effort from the pro-Castro terrorist organization.

Congo We now have word that 49 members of the Soviet

Embassy, including dependents, left Leopoldville on

Saturday aboard a Sabena flight for Brussels.

They

are expected to book onward passage for Moscow.

It

1s

reported that the Congolese will allow one Russian

without diplomatic status to stay to look after Soviet

property:

for The President Orly - Too Secret

NBR

NER

MER

NOR

5/BR

---

## Page 80

13-00000

22 Nov

ROUTING

TO:

NAME AND ADDRESS

1

CIA/ IPC

2

3

4

DATE INITIALS

NLJ 94-474

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

(#5)

ACTION

APPROVAL

I COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. _[SC-NLJ-085/93 B]

COPY _

_OF_

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Hunphrey LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 81

13-00000

Mandatont revie"

Case # NLJ 93-381

Document#5

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

27 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 82

13-00000

SECRET

HAVAN.

ISLE OF PINES

CUBA

• SAM SITE

SECRET

- 3

•=il

SECRET

631126 6

---

## Page 83

13-00000

1. Cuba

2.

Syria-Iraq

!..

1..

a. Cuban tents are now begin-

ning to appear at a number of the

SAM sites--further evidence that

training of Cubans in operation of

SAM equipment has begun as scheduled.

b.

High-altitude photography

taken this past weekend shows these

tents at six SAM sites in western

Cuba. These sites are in addition

to those at which we noted the pres-

ence

of Cuban interpreters as we.

reported on Saturday.

c.

This training should be com-

pleted by next May or June.

d. Just before the training

started, we noted a series of moves

involving the relocation of eight of

the SAM sites.

e.

The purpose, it appears,

was to shift the mission of the sys-

tem from an area defense of the

island as a whole to point defense

of specific targets, particularly

Havana. (Includes INTERCEPTS)

- a.

-Syrian leaders have acceded

to pressure from Iraq and have ex-

pelled Iragi Baathist extremist Ali

Saadi®

He has gone to Athens

24

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

21BR

---

## Page 84

13-00000

PARTY STRENGTHS IN TURKISH ELECTIONS

=. ": si coral vore;

71 19ó1 Géneral Eecrion

2259 1963 Locol Election

36.7

37.0

Republican Peoples' Party (RPP)

34.8

145.9

Justice Party (JP)

F$ 13.7

6.5

New Turkey Party (NTP)

243:914.0

$2.8

Republican Peasons Nation Party (RPNP)

Nation Parsy (NP)

0.8

Independents (or unreporied vore)

Turkish Loisor Parry (TLP)

t?1:35

raced

---

## Page 85

13-00000

Г.

3.

Turkey

b. This is an earnest of the

desire of moderate Baathist leaders

in Damascus to preserve workable re-

lations with Irad, partly as a

counterbalance to Cairo and partly

to preserve what remains of Baathist

influence in Baghdad.

Intercepts show at least

some Syrian troops will remain in

Irag at the request of Iragi offi-

cials.

d. Preparations had been under

way for these forces to withdraw;

retention of at least some in Iraq

is another sign that both regimes

hope to preserve something of the

relations they once had.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. Prime Minister Inonu's

coalition government is about to

collapse.

b. It has long been shaky.

Last week it was dealt a severe set-

back when the opposition Justice

Party, beir of the Menderes regime,

emerged from local elections as the

country's majority party.

NBR

NBR

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

ZIBR

---

## Page 86

13÷00000.

160

140

120

100

80

60

40

20

OL

1950

-1071 7A

1951

: '3

MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN SOVIET AGRICULTURE

INDEX OF MET AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION —.

1950 = 100

TOTAL POPULATION OF THE USSR

1950 = 100

1958

Machine-tractor

stations abolished.

1997-58

Progrom to "carch up" mitti

US in mear and milk output.

Preiiminary Estimare

1963-2

Fertilizer program

- 1983

Wheat purchases.

1962-63

Progrom lo plom up and

plane fallom lands.

1962

livestock product

prices raised.

1961-62

Administrative

reorganizations.

1952

• 1953

1958

1959

1960

1961

1962

1963

83102120

1955-56

Corn program,

1954-56

Now Lands program.

1953-33

Procurement prices raised.

1954

1955

1956

1957

1958

1959

1960

-......

SOVIET GRAIN PRODUCTION

(million metric tons)

ALi GRAINS

WHEAT ALONE

Soviet Official

US Estimate

Sovier Official

US Estimare

141

125

63

126

100

69

55

134

100:

46

137

115

67

55

148

•115

57

-

100-110

-

42-46

CONFIDENTIAL

...3

1961

1962

1963

NBR

DIBR

---

## Page 87

13-00000

1.""

4. USSR wheat

c.

Now the Peasant Party, one

of the three in the coalition,

has

voted to pull out, and probably will

do so as soon as Inonu gets back from

Washington. Another partner, the

Turkey Party, has wanted to pull out,

and apparently has stayed in only

because of pressure from the military.

d.

A new coalition is at least

a theoretical possibility, with a

number of independents taking the

place of the Peasant Party, but

Inonu probably would not be prime

minister.

e. The military are working

for an all-party coalition. This

way, they feel, they could keep

tabs on the Justice Party, but the

Justice Party is not likely to buy

this arrangement.

f.

As matters now stand, the

military would take over the govern-

ment itself before it would let the

Justice Party form one.

a.

Soviet President Brezhnev

has told the Iranian

prime minister

that the decision to buy wheat abroad

was taken to avoid lowering reserves,

which he has described as ample for

one or two years.

We think the sit-

uation is more serious than that.

NBR

NBR

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

2/BR

---

## Page 88

13-00000

b. This year's harvest was

clearly very bad. The weight of

evidence suggests that Soviet grain

stockpiles have been far drawn down

this year and are not sufficient to

protect the country from another

poor harvest.

c. Our estimate is that total

grain production each year since

1958 has been well below that year's

level of 125 million tons, while

the population has continued to grow.

d. We have seen from intercepts

signs of extensive slaughtering in

anticipation of fodder shortages

during the winter.

This runs counter

to Khrushchev's oft-stated plan to

build up the livestock industry.

e. We have

also noted that

the extensive wheat purchases weaken

the USSR's gold reserves at a time

when it hopes to expand its imports

of machinery for a huge chemical

fertilizer program.

f. In addition, we have seen

signs of stringent measures to pro-

tect the grain supply, accompanied

by public discontent in some areas

over the absence of bread.

NBR

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

WBR

---

## Page 89

13-00000

5.

Communist

China -

Argentina

!::"

2.

Peiping last week con-

tracted for some

300,000 tons of

wheat (cost about $20,000,000) from

Argentina.

b.

This adds to the 1,000,000

tons just contracted for with Aus-

tralia,

but is still far below

the 5,000,000 tons the Chinese have

normally imported in recent years.

Additional suppliers will be hard

to find.

A large sale, apparently

involving some $56,000;000 worth

of meat, is apparently also being

arranged. This is interesting,

not only for the sizeable foreign

exchange outlay, but also for the

concern it shows for improving the

diet of the mainland's urban pop-

ulation.

d. The same

caloric value

could be obtained from grains at

a fraction of this cost.

(INTERCEPTS throughout)

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

WBR

---

## Page 90

13-00000

!

i ...

6.

Czechoslovakia-

USSR

7. Cambodia

a. Czech President and party

boss Novotny has gone to Moscow,

evidently for economic talks, judg-

ing by the composition of his dele-

gation.

b. Novotay's background of

Stalinist excesses have put him on

the wrong side of Khrushchev.

They

also have given rise to control

problems, particularly in the frac-

tious slovak party where pressures

for liberalization have made their

mark.

Party problems and Novotny's

leadership may thus also come under

review.

d. A curious sign of the times

is the fact that, although President

Novotny is in Moscow, the presidential

flag has remained up

at the official

residence.

It might simply have been

an oversight, but the symbolism will

not be lost to the people in Prague.

a..

Cambodia, as expected, has

asked the Geneva co-chairman to call

rogatres to gurn the

the Geneva conference participants

together (in Djakarta) to discuss

measures "to ensure the internation-

ally guaranteed and controlled neu-

tralization of Cambodia."

(Cant' d)

NBR

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

216R

---

## Page 91

13-00000

SYRIA

hamis Mushait

UDI ARABIAS

IRAQ

U. A.R.

(конрт)

Ras Banai

*DEMILITARIZED ZONE

Qizan"

Al Muwas

fam

• MaydiE

SUDAN

*Khartoum

SAUDI

Riyadh*

jidda

• „Macca.

Taif

ARABIA

Sana

YEMEN

Umran

ETHIOPIA

Addis Ababo

KAMARAN

(U.K.)

RED

SEA

Hud

Mocha

ETHIOPIA

FR.

SOM.

33905

Marib

Jihannah

N

Horib,

Dhamart

BAYHÁN

STATE

Qatabah

Ad Däl

DEN

BOULF OF ADEN

_JO MILES

SEPTEMBER 1063

---

## Page 92

13-00000

FORE

Egypt-Yemen

b. Last year when this came

up, the French were inclined to go

along with some such idea.

They have indicated to us

that they still feel Sihanouk should

not be turned down; and Sihanouk is

obviously hopeful that they will

exert pressure on us and the British.

d.

Sihanouk seems to be hoping

for at least a rump session attended

by conferees who are willing to do

his bidding.

a. An Egyptain military mes-

sage reporting to Cairo on operations

in Yemen this past weekend indicated

that poison gas (referred to as

"ghurab" in Egyptian military traf-

fic) was used against royalist tribes-

men in the northwest.

This is the first time we

have

noted its employment since

last summer, although another inter-

cept shows that the Egyptian com-

mand has continued to authorize its

use.

ABR

8.

NBR

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

2/3R

---

## Page 93

13-00000

9.

Congo

c.

It is basically a tear gas,

but in such highly concentrated form

that it has caused the death of a num-

ber of Yemenis.

(INTERCEPTS throughout)

Opposition leftist Congo-

lese exiles, operating from Brazza-

ville across the river, are reported

line to.

to be plotting to assassinate Congo-

lese Premier Adoula and some of his

b. It is supposed to happen

sometime after 8 December.

Meanwhile, agents are being

infiltrated with money to buy off

opposition to a takeover immediately

thereafter by radical nationalist

Gbenye •

d.

Adoula's government already

knows that this group of left-wing

subversives, which now numbers about

50, is being helped by the Communist

bloc.

It operates fairly freely

in the loose circumstances which now

obtain in Brazzaville.. Its activities

may soon become a serious source of

friction between the two countries.

NBR

NBR

ZIBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

SCNLT-085/93 AlI)

---

## Page 94

13-00000

Fal

NOTES

A.

South Korea

With 85 percent of the vote in, Pak

won an absolute majority in the National Assembly

elections

held yesterday.

B.

Yenezuela The country's three major presidential

candidates were the targets of unsuccessiul assassi

nation attempts yesterday as Communist-led terror-

ists moved into the final week of desperate attempt

to wreck next Sunday's elections. A US Embassy-of-

ficial was also the intended recipient of a "Christ-

mas package" containing a bomb. Yesterday a US

rubber warehouse was set afire

terrorists.

and destroyed by

c.

Indonesia-Philippines

We have what is about as

sure a sign as we can get that Sukarno will be go-

ing to Manila as reported yesterday. A reliable

source tells us Sukarno has sent advance word to

two of his favorite Philippine girl friends that he

will be arriving on 28 November.

D.

Indonesia-MalaySia

Indonesian-inspired press re-

ports yesterday claimed a British military plane

was shot down near the North Borneo border. Brit-

ish Intelligence tells us the story is concocted;

no aircraft are reported missing.

E. Cuba

The alert in the Cuban military which we

noted immediately after President Kennedy's death

has been lifted.

(INTERCEPT)

NBR

NBR

NBR

NBR

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

4/BR

---

## Page 95

13-00000

L...

F.

G.

Cambodia Cambodia is cutting its diplomatic rep-

resentation abroad to a bare minimum as an austerity

measure following curtailment of US aid. Sihanouk

announced last week that this would be done, saying

that missions in Communist countries would not be

affected since those countries "protect" Cambodia.

Curiously enough, among the missions being closed

down are those in New Delhi and Rangoon. (Includes

(INTERCEPTS)

USSR-US" Pravda this morning reports on Gromyko's

talks with President Johnson,

giving top play to

Senator Fulbright's remarks about the desirability

of a meeting between the President and Khrushchev.

NBR

NBR

Z1BR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 96

13-00000

172;

EXT BOB EA

€271

Ere: 0.7

I.

II.

DOCUMENTS OF INTEREST

De Gaulle on NATO strategy.

(Sensitive INTERCEPT)

For

The President Only - Top Secret

V/BR

---

## Page 97

13-00000

ROUTING

• NAME AND ADDRESS

CIA/IPC

TO:

1

2

3

4

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DATE INITIALS

NLJ 94-484

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

(#6)

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. _

[SC-NLJ-088/93 B]

1

COPY

OF '

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Humphrey/LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 98

13-00000

il.

LBJ LIBRARY

Mandatory Review

Case # NL593-381

Document #

i.

L. La E

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

President

Read

during brife,

o, me Core

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

28 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

(5C-N45-088/93 813

---

## Page 99

13-00000

COLOMBI

Amualo

GALFÜ DE

VENEZUELA

Cabim

Ule

LICOTOE

° Соко

• "CARACAS

COLOMBIA

VENEZUELA

— Selected railroad

3÷168 10-63

100

230 romeren

350 M.es

BRAZIL

3.

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

62

•CARIBBEAN SEA

-7. Gyaira

d:

Carupano!

° Matur

TOBACO

TRINIDAD

BRITISH

GUIANA

NBR

BRAZI

;.

1/BR

(SC-NLT-C8F/93 B17

---

## Page 100

13-00000

1. Venezuela

i...

The country's six presiden-

tial candidates have swung into the

home stretch of their campaigns.

So have the terrorists, who are still

trying bard to sabotage next Sunday's

vote.

b.

There is little doubt that

the terrorist effort has all-out

Cuban support.

Castro looks on

Venezuela as his prime target in

Latin America and would do everything

in his power to prevent President

Betancourt from finishing his term.

c.

So far, the terrorists have

tried to intimidate the candidates

by harassing political rallies, bomb-

ing their party headquarters in

various cities, and threatening them

with assassination.

They have tried

to scare voters from the polls by

creating a general atmosphere of law-

lessness. Kidnappings, like the one

yesterday morning of Colonel Chenault,

are part of the patters.

d.

The government counterattack

is under the personal direction of

Betancourt, who is as determined to

finish out

his term and turn over

power to a freely-elected successor

as Castro is to prevent this.

NBR

(Cont'd)

For

The President Only - Top Secret

1/BR

(SC-N15-008/93 Bli3

---

## Page 101

13-00000

i.

South Vietnam

e.

Yesterday it was announced

that the carrying of firearms by

anyone outside the security forces

was forbidden until the elections

are over.

f. Some 3,000 reservists have

been called up to protect the polls.

Leaves are being cancelled and all

security forces are maintaining a

high state of alert.

We now have a fuller ac-

count from official US sources of

the Viet Cong attack on two mountain

villages mentioned in Tuesday's

Checklist.

b. This account makes it clear

that the earlier press versions,

•which spoke of 1,000 missing vil-

lagers, were highly colored.

c.

Our present information

is that the attack, in company

strength, was successfully repulsed.

The Viet Cong suffered some 30 cas-

ualties; government losses were six

killed, three wounded and 39 missing.

(Cont'd)

NBR

2.

For The President Only - Top Secret

VIBR

(5C-N15-088193 Bir

---

## Page 102

13-00000

3.

Israel

d. As is usual in these cases,

the villagers began to trickle back

once the Viet Cong left.

e. This episode aside, we see

• a number of indications that the

Communists will try to sustain the

•higher level of military activity

• they have kept up since the coup.

f.

The Communist radio has

called for more attacks in an effort

to destroy strategic hamlets and

"develop" Viet Cong forces. In sup-

port of this, Viet Cong communica-

tions traffic has been unusually .

heavy and has involved a large vol-

une of high priority traffic and

special alert patterns.

•(Includes INTERCEPTS)

We have some reason to be-

lieve that the Israelis are develop-

ing a surface-to-surface missile of

their own.

b. A reliable clandestine

source says that an Israeli repre-

sentative is trying to buy US stable

platforms for the inertial guidance

system of a missile with a range of

300-350 miles.

He wanted delivery

in six to twelve months.

There have

Desa averal earlier reports that"

NER

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

VBR

(5C-NL5-088/93 BlIS

---

## Page 103

13-00000

=...

Israel is buying missile components

in the US and England.

c.

He think this missile pro-

gram is independent of another

Israeli venture:

Tel Aviv's con-

tract with a French firm, Marcel

Dassault, for the development of a

system which will be able to deliver

a 1,600-pound warhead to a maximum

range of 300 miles.

2.

Moscow has promised the

Indians to ship the equipment for

one surface-to-air (SAM) training

site early next month.

b. The Soviets had agreed to

provide eight sAM sites.

The rest

will probably not be sent until the

Indians have learned to handle the

equipment about a year from now.

c.

As we noted last Sunday,

there are some Indians who have

doubts about the Soviet willingness

to live up to the letter of their

military aid agreements with New

Delhi.

NBR

4.

USSR-India

NBR

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

2IBR

(5CN45-088493 811)

---

## Page 104

13-00000

5.

Burma

d. They call into question

especially the contract for the

Soviets to set up in India a facility

to assemble MIG fighters--an enter-

prise which has appeared somewhat

impractical from the beginning.

e.

We do note, however, that

Soviet aircraft specialists working

on the project were still in New

Delhi in early November.

(INTERCEPTS)

a. Ne Win has followed up his

action in breaking off talks with

the Burmese Communists by arresting

over 700 of their number.

b. Ne Win had been trying to

lure the faction-ridden Communists

into a "national front." However,

he found the demands of the Commu-

nist negotiators, some of whom had

only just returned from long exile

in Peiping, to be impossible.

c.

This will probably lead to

renewed fighting between the army

and Communist guerrillas in the hills.

expected from the rebellious ethnic

expected Noon

More trouble can also be

minorities like the Karens and the

NER

NBR

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

5C-121-088193/3/17

---

## Page 105

13-00000

CHINA

NORTHN

VIETNAM

South Vietnam

•Quang Tri

Hue

5-

LAOS

"Da Nang

ah Quang Nam

"...

•Quang Ngai

THAILAND

C A

•PHNOM• PENH

Chau Phụ

*i phu QuaC Rach Gia

GULF

SIAM

OF

Quan Long.

(Ca Mao)

B

D.| A

Loc Ninh

Tay

Ninh

Phuac Vịnh

en he 3100

My Tho

* Yung Tau

-Bac Lieu

Pleiku •

"Kontum

An Khe°

Cheo Reo

'Ban Me Thuot

•Da Lat

¿Qui Nhon

"Song Cau

Guy Hoa

-Nha Trang

*Phan Rang

SOUTH

Ji Phan Thiet

CHINA

SEA

STATUTE MILES 190 34235

•*3

}

(SC-N4T-058/93 BlI)

---

## Page 106

13-00000

6. Cambodia

7.

Greece

Kachins, whose demands for greater

autonomy have been rejected in Ran-

goon.

e. US officials on the spot

doubt that the army, hobbled by poor

leadership and its many political

- responsibilities, will be any more

effective in dealing with the prob-

lem this time than in past anti-

insurgency campaigns.

a.

Sihanouk has signed an ac-

cord setting up regular air service

between Cambodia and Comnunist China.

A similar agreement with Hanoi is

In the works.

b. These lines are significant

largely as gestures by Pelping and

Hanoi to bolster Sihanouk's sense

of importance.

Neither would be a

paying proposition commercially and

both could flounder before the first

paying passenger enplanes unless

rights to overfly Laos can be obtained.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. It looks more and more as

to a narrow upset victory over ex-

elections, will not be able to form

a government.

NBR

NBR

NSR

(Cort d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

3/BR

(SC-NL5-058/93 BlI)

---

## Page 107

13-00000

.

Brazil

b.

His party does not have a

parliamentary majority, so he needs

support from either Karamanlis'

party on the right or from the Com-

munists. The military has apparently

been pressing Karamanlis to withhold

that support. He does not need much

urging.

c. The military has also let

it be known that it would consider

Papandreou's acceptance of Communist

support as sufficient reason for a

coup d'etat.

d. In addition to this military

string-pulling, the royal family is

also meddling--not for the first

time.

Should Papandreou fail to

form a government, the palace intends

to pass the mandate to Karamanlis,

believing that be too would fail.

e. This would then open the

way, the palace calculates, for a

compromise premier more amenable to

palace influence.

a .

President Goulart and his

opponents are keeping political ten-

sions in Brazil high.

iNBR

NBR

(coat' d)

For The President Only - Top. Secret

ZIBR

(5C-R125-088193 BID

---

## Page 108

13-00000

• .

F:C7MM2278

?.

b.

Comments by Goulart, that

"social disaster" is sure if his

program is not passed soon, have drawn

sharp rejoinders from moderate and

conservative figures and have fed

rightist coup plotting.

c.

Strains are also growing in

the military following the arrest

of a young officer who refused last

month to execute an order to arrest

Governor Lacerda, a leading conserva-

tive spokesman and likely presidential

candidate.

NBR

V/BR

For The President Only - Top Secret

(SC-NCT-058/938117

---

## Page 109

13-00000

A.

B.

C.

D.

NOTES

•USSR

Simultaneous activity this morning on the

Truratam missile test range, satellite tracking nets

ably represented an attempt to launch an unmanned

the pad or was cancelled at the last moment. It

may be tried again soon. (INTERCEPTS)

Rumania-US

Rumanian officials are about to award

a us firm, Ferguson and Company of Cleveland, Ohio,

a $32 million contract to help build the huge Galati

steel plant.

The Rumanians are pressing ahead with

this project in the face of Soviet efforts to dis-

courage it in various ways, most importantly by re-

fusing to underwrite the scheme to any substantial

degree.

Turkey

The New Turkey Party has followed the

Peasant

Party in withdrawing from the present three-

party coalition government.. This means that the

coalition has to all intents

and purposes collapsed,

even though no formal action will be taken until

Prime Minister Inonu returns from Washington this

weekend.

NBR

NSR

NBR

Thailand

The Thai doctors attending Sarit now ad-

mit for the first time that the prime Minister is in

critical condition:

Our doctor agrees with this

prognosis. US officials in Bangkok believe that the

most likely successor would be Thanom Kittikachorn,

now deputy prime minister and minister of defense.

NER

Thanom is not likely to last long, however, since he:

is neither a strong personality nor a figure of great

weight in the military hierarchy.

(Cont'a)

For The President Only - Top Secret

4/BR

(SC-NLT-088/93 Bli

---

## Page 110

13-00000 *

MAURITANIA

NIGER

UASI»

PORT. GUI

ALGERLA*

LIBYA

EOWPT

UrrER VOL

IVORY

DAHOMEY

NIGERLA

MEROON

CABI

CHAD

CENTRAL AFRICAI

Rou.ni

100

REPUBLIC

OF THE CONd

ANGOLA

SUDAN

ETHIOPIA

XENYA

сrOди

INTIXA (ZANZIBAR

L SOMAL.

SOMAL!

REPUBLIC

RWANDA BURUNDI

OF

AND NYAS

SOUTH.WESII

'AFRICA!'

BECHUANALI

WAZILANG.

REPUBLIC

OF

RASUTOLANO

SOUTH AFRICA

CAIQUE

MALAONSY

RETUALIC

(SC- N17-068/93 Bli3

---

## Page 111

13-00000

E.

F

G.

н.

Indonesia-Philippines

A Philippine foreign office

man states that everything was set, as we noted yes-

terday, for Sukarno to visit Manila today. This

official says, however, that the visit was postponed

as a result of Macapagal's decision to attend Presi-

dent Kennedy's funeral.

Indonesia Djakarta is giving every indication that

It will fold up final action on the long-pending oil

contracts with US companies in an attempt to smoke

us out on the question of US aid policy toward Indo-

nesia.

Rwanda-Burundi ( Tribal refugees from Rwanda, now 1n

Burundi,

Sent on making trouble between the two

countries.

Some 3,000 of their number were reported

yesterday to be moving toward the frontier.

They

have little military capability, but blood could

flow and require UN intervention.

USSR-Congo As a further token of the withdrawal

of Soviet diplomats we have noted that the Soviet

diplomatic communications link between Moscow and

Leopoldville was shut down last Saturday.

(INTER-

CEPTS)

NBR

NBR

NER

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

EsC++15-085193817

---

## Page 112

13-00000

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO.

COPY

OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

DATE

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 113

130000

00

file

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

29 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 114

13-00000

TYURATAM

CHINA

• 6311 28 2

SOVIET EXTENDED RANGE IMPACT AREAS

PLESETSK

4500 N

KAMCHATKA

CANADA

UNITED

STATES

4900

NM

NBR

NORTHERN

IMPACT

AREA

*6200 NM

APPROX

6500 N M

SOUTHERN

IMPACT

AREA

AUSTRALIA

VIBR

TOP SECRET

DINAR

---

## Page 115

13-00000

1.

USSR

UBR

a. TASS has finally announced

that the USSR will conduct another

series of ICBM firings to the Pacifto

during the period & December to 25

January.

b. Since our last mention of

this subject, we have picked up indi-

cations that some of the firings

this time may be made from operational

launchers rather than from the Ty-

uratam rangehead.

C. There has been unusual

traffic on the strategic rocket

forces communications link between

the operational site at Plesetsk

and Moscow similar to that which

preceded the firing last October

from Plesetsk to Kamchatka.

d.

In addition, some inter-

cepted telephone conversations have

implied that the firing ranges would

be different this time.

e.

We also have some fragmentary

evidence that the forthcoming firings

may be the ooject of a special

tracking or detection project.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

1/BR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 116

13

3.

IDES

Civia 624

Cuba-

Venezuela

CiB

of National Liberation (FALN) will

probably increase their efforts to

disrupt the constitutional succession,

which would be the first in Venezuela's

history•

f.

Meanwhile, in the wings are

, the military leaders who may well

intervene if they find Betancourt's

successor not to their liking.

g. Though President Betancourt

has taken personal charge of the

search to locate Colonel Chenault

and those responsible for his kid-

napping, his efforts so far have

come to nought.

The only news has

been from a Caracas editor who had

a call yesterday morning from a

woman saying the colonel was safe.

a.

The discovery of a large

cache of weapons of Cuban

origin,

announced by Venezuelan authorities

yesterday, provides the best evidence

to date of major Cuban support for

Latin American subversives.

b. There is definite proof

to support the Venezuelan claim.

The three tons of weapons found in-

clude light automatic rifles and

NER

For The President Only - Top Secret

(Cont'd)

VBR

---

## Page 117

00

submachine guns identified as among

those shipped to Cuba from Belgium

in 1959 and 1960. There were also

mortars, bazookas, recoilless rifles,

and ammunition of US manufacture.

Communist documents seized

by Venezuelan authorities earlier

this month reveal that the equipment

was destined for the Venezuelan

Communists' paramilitary arm, the

Armed Forces of National Liberation

(FALN) •

d. The cache was found on 1

November on a beach in Falcon State

in the north, scene of the most

active guerrilla effort. The Vene-

zuelan government assumes that the

weapons were sent from Cuba by sea.

e. Caracas will lay formal

charges concerning the arms cache

before a special meeting of Latin

America Foreign Ministers scheduled

for December.. After that it will

ask that the Council of the Organi-

zation of American States be con-

voked for consultation on the matter.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 118

100

4.

Communist

China -

Afro-Asia

Вашкі

5.

Cuba

1044

Awaite

De'

chuchat

a .

More information on Chinese

Premier Chou En-lai's Afro-Asian

swing is beginning to leak out.

b. The Egyptians are expect-

ing him on 8 December, according to

the Algerian ambassador to Cairo.

The press in Mali says Chou,

accompanied by Foreign Affairs Min-

ister Chen Yi, will visit Algeria,

Mali, Ghana, Guinea, Somalia, Tangan-

yika, and Albania.

d. The Pakistanis have just

informed our ambassador that they

have agreed to a state visit by the

two Chinese in mid-February at the

conclusion of their two month tour.

(niladis intuteps)

a. Another London shipping

firm says it is willing to abandon

its Cuban trade.

b. Embassy London has been ad-

vised by Papadakis and Co., Ltd.

that it is prepared to keep its two

ships involved in the trade from

calling at Cuban ports when their

charters run out next January.

NBR

(Cont 'd)

IIBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 119

Papadakis is probably ask-

ing the same price for its action as

Basil Mavrolean did recently--removal

of its ships from the US blacklist.

Papadakis operates 19 ships totalling

more than 200,000 tons.

d. Mavrolean's vessels account

for almost half the present British

tonnage calling at Cuban ports and

are the largest single element of

free world shipping to Cuba.

e .

The outcome of Mavrolean's

offer is not yet clear.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 120

TOCSOB

3/658/113

R13

D.

NOTES

A.

"South Korea

President-elect Pak Chong-hui's suc-

cess in winning control of the unicameral legisla-

ture in Tuesday's elections improves prospects for

CIB

smooth operation of the new constitutional govern-

ment.

However,

political stability will still de-

pend on Pak's

willingness to rule with moderation.

If he interprets this victory as a popular mandate

to pursue an aggressive authoritarian program, he

could provoke serious unrest.

, B.

ndonesia-Philippines President Sukarno's visi

to Manila is on again for 4 December, according t

the Indian ambassador to Djakarta.

He assumes

its

purpose is to head off Philippine recognition of

Malaysia.

Thailand Prime Minister Sarit appears to have

taken a further turn for the worst. Our station

reported yesterday that he was flown by helicopter

to a Bangkok hospital from his seaside villa.

Police escorts described his condition as critical

and rumors that be had died spread through the city.

Rwanda-Burundi

Prompt action by Burundi security

Torces appears to have halted the march of tribal

refugees on kwanda that we reported yesterday.

There is little doubt that the refugees, who carried

only a handful of modern arms and were poorly organ-

ized, would have been badly mauled by Rwandan troops

"if they had crossed the frontier.

NISR

NBR

NBR

NER

(Cont' d)

4//BR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 121

20

E.

DIK

Pro-Castro members of the terrorist

National-Liberation Army (ELN) are believed respon-

sible for the recent wave of bombings in Colombia's

At least a dozen bombs were set off

in Bogota during the last two nights.

Two of the

bombs failed to explode after being placed close to

the residence of the chief of US Naval Mission

For The President Only - Top Secret

NBR

---

## Page 122

13-00000

PIC 30 MONG

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

CIA/ IPC

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

DATE INITIALS

NLJ 94-484

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

(#8)

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NZJ-089/93 B]

COPY _

1

_OF_

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.

David C. Humphrey/LBJ Library

DATE

6/23/93

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 123

13-00000

TBTLIBRANY

Hardatory Revier

13-38

Documeni # 8

I..

L:I.E

Reted tim

'Ms. Kishert.

12/10/63

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

30 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 124

13-00000

•.:.

1. Venezuela

a. Election campaigning ended

at midnight, but boosters for the

several candidates continued to mill

about streets of Caracas in defiance

of terrorist threats to shoot anyone

who ventured out for the next three

days.

2.

Sino-Soviet

dispute

b.

The terrorists, it seems,

were all but drowned out by the car-

nival air.

c .

The FALN, meanwhile, Is

trying to bargain off Colonel Chenault

for as high a price as it can, de-

manding variously release of all its

comrades, of all women detained by

the government, and of the six hi-

jackers who have been returned from

Trinidad to custody in Venezuela.

a.

The Chinese Communists

will have nothing to do with the

idea of bilateral talks with the

Soviets under present circumstances.

b.

Chinese party Secretary

General Teng Hsiao-ping, one of the

select few in Peiping's

ruling cir-

cle, recently told a group of visit-

Ing Latin Americans that such a meet-

ing could accomplish nothing.

(Cont'd)

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

215R

---

## Page 125

13-00000

c. Teng put the issue of

another meeting of world Communist

parties even deeper into limbo by

saying that Peiping would be in favor

only when assured of the support of

a majority of the world parties.

d.

Moscow, for its part, has

apparently stopped thinking about

- another gathering of world Communist

party representatives.

e. The feelers it put out

after the conclusion of the test-

ban treaty were received coldly by

some of the fraternal parties. They

felt such a meeting could only make

matters worse with the Chinese.

f. Indeed, Peiping saw this

to be Moscow's purpose, and when

the idea failed to take hold, the

Chinese took it to be a setback for

Khrushchev personally.

g.

Their reaction to Khrush-

chev's subsequent call for a cessa-

tion of open argument was to press

the offensive, and this they have

been doing in roundly abusive terms

since.

NBR

(Cont 'd)

VIBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

Mr.114160 deid

---

## Page 126

13-00000

Area of Main Map

TOP SECRET DINAR

• BEPTEMBER 1069

33881

ENINSULA

Klyuchi-

Impact

Area

ER

ING

SEA

.1.1

Launch Position

8 April

KOMAN

285 NM

First

Track

Impoci Poin

parlorsk

Balliseir Minaila Sulaurine-

in she Petregens los sit sera

6 "1"'- Class

3 " 7"- Conversions

pproximore Launch Positions - 27 June & 27 August

:53

Submarine Ballistic Missile Launches in the Soviet Far East

168

"G"-Class Submarine

NBR

---

## Page 127

13-00000

-

.. . .

3.

USSR

open

"ballestic

missiles"

only

4.

Kenya -

Communist Bloc

b. The forthcoming Afro-Asian

visits by Chou En-lai and Chen Yi

have awakened suspicions that the

Chinese are in hot pursuit of a

second Bandung-type conference--a

more rewarding enterprise from their

point of view.

Yesterday and on Thursday,

we detected what we believe to have

been operational training launches

of standard 350 nautical mile sub-

marine-based ballistic missiles.

b.

Two and possibly four mis-

siles were fired from submarines

based in the Petropavlovsk area to

the impact area at Klyuchi.

c.

Seven similar instances

have been detected previously this

year, and there may have been others.

(INTERCEPTS)

a .

The Soviet Bloc will soon

gain an important propaganda outlet

in Nairobi, communications bub for

East Africa.

b. Plans are for a state-

controlled news agency to be set up

by the Kenyan government when it

NBR

NBR

NER

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

VIBR

---

## Page 128

13-00000

5.

not on ot doin

achieves independence on 12 Decem-

ber. This will fall under the juris-

diction of communications minister

Oneko, who has well developed con-

•tacts

within the Soviet Bloc.

TASS has already agreed to

equip the new agency, and Kenyan re-

quests for further financial and

techincal help are being discussed

in Prague and Moscow.

d. Kenyan journalists have

been training in Prague and, on re-

turn, will find ready employment in

the new agency.

NBR

Czechoslovakt

USSR

a. Czech President Novotny

returned from Moscow on Thursday

after signing a renewal (for another

20 years of the treaty of friend-

ship and mutual assistance.

b.

He apparently got little

else out of Khrushchev.

The final

communique was conspicuously cool.

c.

There were no Soviet con-

cessions, nor were there the usual

references to Czech "progress" or

to public support for Novotny's

leadership.

NER

For The President Only - Top Secret

Z/BR

---

## Page 129

13-00000

i

rt..

i.. -

5.. -

1-.-

Tins tie

6.

South Vietnam

a. The first suicide by burn-.

ing to occur under the new regime

was witnessed today by bystanders

at a crowded intersection in Saigon

where a young girl went up in flames.

b. A note she left behind said

she was protesting the war of Viet-

namese against Vietnamese. At the

intersection are three villas which

house the ICC delegations.

C. There were no Buddhist

overtones.

d.

Some think the Viet Cong

encouraged her, but if they did'they

they did not write her script.

would have said it is the Americans

who are fighting the Vietnamese.

NBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 130

13-00000

CHINA

THAILAND

C

A

PHNOM PENH®

B

NORTH.

VIETNAM

South Vietnam

ARMY CORPS BOUNDARIES

Quang Tri

tieni

Hue

LAOS

Da Nang

Quang Nam

TCórps

.Quang Ngai

Il Corps

Kontum

Pleiku •

An Khe'

Cheo. Reo"

D

1A

• Qui Nhon

Song Cau

Juy Hoa

Ban Me Thuot

Nha Trang

Ill Corps Da lat

° Loc Ninh

Tay

Ninh Ý

- "Phan Rang.

" Phuec vinh.

SOU'TII

,Chau Phu

:ier

Ásle de . -

IV Corps.

• Phu Qua Rach Gia

"Phan Thiet

CHINA

~ Cho

My Tho

Diul Capital Military District

':Vung Tau

SEA.

•Can Thờ v

Gl.'l.F

OF

SI.4.%

Quan Long.

(Ca Maus

'Bac Lieu

SECRET

STATUTE MILES

30793

---

## Page 131

13-00000

A.

B.

C.

D.

NOTES

South Vietnam

Plans are now afoot to shuffle

South Vietnam's Corps commanders so that General

Khanh, considered by General Harkins to be the best

lot, will take over in the crucial delta (IV

Corps) area. General Dinh, the ambitious Minister.

of Security, is still resisting pressure to relin-

quish command of the III Corps area, and is not in-

volved in the current shuffle.

Cuba-USSR

There are about 8,000 Soviets in Cuba,

5, 000 of these military, according to a bloc offi-

cial in close touch with Soviets in Havana.

The

figures are close to our own estimate of 4,000 to

7,000. Some withdrawals continue.

Cambodia-Vietnam

Sihanouk seems to feel that cut-

ting off his nose to spite his face was not enough.

Now he says he will formally recognize North Vietnam

if the US does

not silence the Khmer Serei radio.

South Vietnam will cut Cambodia's primary access

to

international markets via the Mekong river if he

does.

(INTERCEPT)

Indonesia-Cambodia

Sukarno apparently plans to go

to Cambodia on an official visit following his trip

to Manila.

The Cambodian ambassador in Djakarta has

advised Phnom Penh that Sukarno plans to leave for

Manila on 6 December and directly from there for

Phnom Penh on the l0th. He will stay three days.

(INTERCEPT.)

NBR

NER

(Cont 'd)

ZIBR

For The President Only - Top Secret

-

---

## Page 132

13-00000

C2 MILE MILL M BREE BY W BE

F.

G.

H.

Coal and Steel Community

Coal and Steel community

members at their next meeting on Monday will prob-

ably vote to raise community steel tariffs by an

average of nine percent.

This would bring the tar-

iffs of each member into line with Italy's, the

highest in the community. Only the Dutch oppose the

idea.

GIMPEX, trading arm and

deal to supply the country's major electric utility

next year with fuel oil from Cuba. Texaco and Esso

have been the traditional suppliers.

Brazil-US

A press report from Rio cites "well in-

formed sources" to the effect that Goulart plans

soon to invite Mrs. Kennedy to visit Brazil so that

Brazil can pay her

the honors which it had planned

to render the late President.

Cuba-Morocco

A three-man Cuban delegation is on

Its way to Morocco to try to patch up relations

broken by Morocco because of Cuba's assistance to

the Algerians in their border war. (INTERCEPTS)

NBR

NBR

NER

NBR

c/ISR

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 133

13-00000

DOCUMENT OF INTEREST

The effect in France of the President's death.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

