# 104-10186-10264

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10264

?'!'

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproe

AINFORMATION REPORT HINFORMATION REPORE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

I MATAFLUI MATAITA IMPOATALNSS DNMLILDA IDE MATITA: DAURNO Ol UNA LDIIPA FINII NILALA IDO EMRALOS Ol tNA PANHODAGO LATA MI

CAC. PAML TUI ANI IDA IDA IIADÈMINANA OT JATPiNEDIR dl thlch In any Maart la ds Ubaursoraro perroO la proMiDiced dY t

SECRET

NO FCRSIGN DISSEN

COUNTAY Cuba

SUNEÇT (InU) RELOVA

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00701-61

1 September 1964

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO

PACE & Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQAUgUSE 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INTORMATION SONRCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS TENTANIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who serrcd

with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments:

he rollowing report is one of a serirs containing personalit

Information provided

oy tne sourco and includes supplementa

information

from the records of this Agency.

tIs requested that the addressres take no action on any o

he Indiriduals montioned in the personulity reports withou

first checking with this Agercy.

5

4

Intolligonce - DG1) 1: Cube.

laban Repa5,3, Jua,oManuel Marque%, Palya de Santa Fe, Martano,

, 2,3,4,5,6

Headquarters Comments

1.

An airline passenger manifest revealed that one Osvaldo

RELOVA Peuichet, provably identical with the above gubject,

left Mexico for Haband on 8 July 1963 and was the holder

of Cuban passport nuiber D/63/415.

2.

An (official Jamalcan soircel, in a report dated 16 October 1963,

stated that Osvaldo RELOVA,

the First Secretary of the

Cuban Embassy in Canada, arrived in Kingston

on 14 October, 1963.

He was in Kingston for une week add lived at the Cuban

Consulate office.

RSLOVA was reportedly making an inspection

RELOVA Jas barn on 13 August 1930, in Habana. Hlis

hone address was given as 15H 2119 Santa

Fe, Habana.

He

carried Cuban passport number D/63/4:5, Issued in Habana

on 17 June 1963.

ALUETE

SXCRET

SO FUREIGN DISSEN

N34

REP

ARMY

CINCLAST

I MATY

CINCSO E THIS

OCi

FBI 2

INEGR

REPORT

TION REPORT

NLSA EOR 2INEER

AU SA 1OS. JIE HIOK

ALSARI

H7l. Siah CL

LINJI'E

2.

+LICILIA

ULCLRIL

ICALADEA

BRITLSR

LI HASILIBR:

NO PROJECT (ANNUO/I

_CSC1-316/0070-1-64

Madidi-

2

4/8R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

=2-

3. In a ropore dated 19 October 1903, source unsmous, it has stated.

that one Oscaldo RELOVA Pondched was appointed admiraserator or

"Envases del Corro, S.A."

firm, located on Calzada dil Corro

Avenue, Habana..

A fairly reliable source, in a leport dated 23 October 1903.

revealed that Osvaldo RELOVA, First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy

1n Canada, left Kingston for Toronto on 21 October 1903. 0u

TCA flight number 885.

5.

AnJofficial Canadian source,

In a report dated 26 Noscaber 1963,

said that Osvaldo RELOVA Penicited, born on 13 August 1930. was

not the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Canada as previous

reports stated.

Rather, RELOVA, who was a frequent visitor to

Canada; traveled as

"Embassy Inspector."

Diplomatic passport D/63/115

with Mexican visa number OF-7090; he

had nu Canadian visa.

The address on his passport was given as

15/3 number 2119, Santa Fe Banch (sic), Habana.

Canada on 16 August 1963, destined to visit Jesus YANES Rodriguez,

Cuban Commorical Attache

in Montreal.

He departed Canadi for Mexico

on 25 August 1963, i1 the company of Alberta MENDUCA.

6.

A former Cuban Intollikence officer who has been living in the United"

States since 1963 and whose reporting over the past nine monihs has

proven reliable, save the following information on 21 July

on Osvaldo RELOBA Pencclet (presumably identical with RELOVA):

In carly 1961, RELOBA was an administrator of a section

of the Consolidated Hardware Stores and annexes.

In late

1961 he wont to see source to got help with an invertigation

on a Mr. BARRAL, Administrator of the Consolidated (sic).

RELOBA was requesting sources aid in the bollef that source

was still working for G-2: source did not tell him othorwise.

RELOBA is a new Communist who wants to be more than VARX and

ts trying to instruct everyone around him.

Source sand that

RELOBA was born about 1934, is 164 pounds, five feet nine

inches in height, has a medium thin build, a long lace, and

& long thin neck. He has dark eyes, black hair, is partially

bald, and has a small, thin mustache.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

MISR

---

