# 104-10074-10347

## Page 1

1104-10074-10347

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR:

- 20

Via

LAMerY, OGG

A.

Addona, DDO/PICG

Subject:

Classification of_EX 3600

Re your request for wa

couple sentences of. factual

data as to why this

his documenteds classified here they are:

71. Ex post facto, since I was not associated

with Operation MHCHAOS duringfits existence, I can only

offer the following reasonable@surmist. As we now know,

duringits

s tenure, MHCHAOS was lone of the most sensitive

operations conducted under DoP aegis, repeatedly sanctioned

fin w

waiting) by the pcI.

Thelactivity was deemed so sensi-

tive that it was controlled by/through extremely restricted

handlings

na channelso

I think it follows logically, at least

in my view, tha tany

documents produced by MHCHAOS, whether

a formal or informal one, would have been classified at

east SECRET:

112.

classification today..

Does the information in this document warrant

I think it does, and I believe the

Eurrent Classification of CONFIDENTIAL IS proper Reading a

Date

5.75 101

USE

EDITIONS

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

# 09377

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Pgs. 2 through 12 carefully, it is readily apparent that s

some of the information on some of these pages was seeming?

acquired from/through sensitive sources/methods. Also

Saras

these pages contain frequent mention of FBI information con

cerning many of the Peace Movement groups/organizations

Cited; «FBI reports received by MHCHAOs were invariably

classified, for the most part CONFIDENTIAL.

Has 3.

3600; 5 in my viewg: (b.) (3):

What should be the proper FOTA exemptionesor

475

Patteefner #

C/SCB/IP.

7 Apro: 77 g

5-73 101

---

