# 104-10182-10007

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10182-10007

- 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Pils

-.

3ic114

INCLUSIVE RATIS:

CUSTODIAL. UNIT/LOCATION:

16C:1221

R00!:.

DELITIONS, IF MY: HID GELICY DENIS

PECHINED RETURNIN

REVISED BY

(SPLAY NIE

3/1.3/78

3/73/78

Folie wireman

STRIATIN: OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL.

zu tentle

dishe Wizesman

NO MUCUHENTS MAY N COHO MY MONED 10099 7165 F081.

CAL MOTORICAL NEARE MAGGRAM

189826

---

## Page 2

14-00000

24 June 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Eduardo WHITEHOUSE Insua

1. On 22 June 1971. Mr. Ed Sullivan, WH/Security officer,

Informed DC/WH/COG that he had been advised by SOD that Mr.

WHITEHOUSE was In Miami and had some Information which he would

11ke to pass to the Agency. Mr. WHITEHOUSE, a Cuban, was a

pilot during the Bay of Pigs Invasion and was under contract

• uith the Agency from November 1964 to April 1965 as a pilot under

the WITHRUSH Project in the Congo. He has not worked for the

Agency since chat time.

2.

Mr. Sullivan requested SOD to have Mr. WHITEHOUSE

use the Domestic Contact Service channel In Miami for passing

his Information to us.

3. File: 201-300614.

Chris Hopkins

WH/COG/SA

---

## Page 3

14-00000

0910:

UNIT:

DATI

DATE!

CH.

ini

RICHIÉR PARMIGTON: 1jO

Wi/ 2/AD&ES

7163/1946

23. JULY 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSIMINATION

ROUTINO AND'DR INIT. AIR i SEEN EY

TUS AL CAPILSIO

SECRET

@INDER

O NO MOEX

DO FILE IN. CS RILE NO.

_BRANCH

CONFI

(classificarion)

poors and lions illad!'

SECRET.

CITE DIRECTOR

[PRIORITY NA/MIAMI INFO PRIORITY TECUCICALPA, SAN SALVADOR

33281 1

LUSTEER

af

I. MORNING 23 JULY 1969, TUSTEER PHONED HUS CASE OFFICER AND

STATED TEDDY WHITEHOUSE (201-300614) AND UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN

ATTEMPTING HIRE CUBAN PILOTS MIANI AREA TO FLY F-51 AIRCRAFT TO

A•B

EL SALVADOR., IUSTEER SOURCES, WHO WERE FOUR CUBAN PILOTS WHO

REFUSED OFFER, SAID WHITEHOUSE AND ASSOCIATE BEGAN RECRUITMENT

5X

EFFORT CIRCA 14 JULY 1969. WHITEHOUSE OFFERING DEPOSIT $20,000.

PILOTS BANK ACCOUNT PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE FOR EL SALVADOR IF PILOT

AGREES FIX PLANE TO ELSALVADOR AND IN COMBAT.

2. IUSTEER PHONED INFO TO HQS CASE OFFICER WHEN UNABLE CONTACT

WA MIAMI.

HQS ATTEMPTING RECONTACT IUSTEER VIA PHONE ORDER OBTAIN

FOLLOWUP INTO INCLUDING IDENTITIES ANY PILOTS WHO HAVE ACCEPTED,

NAME OF AMERICAN WHO WORKING WITH WHITEHOUSE, IDENTITY OF THEIR

EL SALVADOR CONTACT, LOCATION OF PLANES, ETC. IUSTEER DUE DEPART

MIANI BY END OF WEEK AND NOT AVAILABLE TO WH/MIAMI AFTER 25 JULY 1969.

MICROFILMEO

SEP 1 C 1969

CONTINUED .

DOC. MICRO. SER

RALLABINO ОРРІСКЯ

201-300614

-23 004

AUTMENTICANIEC

+201-285455

SECRET

talentis

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITER I CROFICHE

Car на

(OVER)

---

## Page 4

- ROUTINO ANDION INITIALS - SEEN BY

MESSAGE FORN

TOTAL

COPiES:

SECRET

)RiG:.

Dalli

SATE:

¿ABLE EECRETARIAT DISSEMINATiON

_ PEA

CONFi

FILE. VA.

(chassification)

SECRET.

JINDEX

O PILE IN CA FILE NO.

• NO INDEE

• RETURN TO

Ход анси

то.

fdaro end lives litad)

CITE DIRECTOR

PAGE THO

7.3. REQUEST WH/MIANI ADVISE ANY CONFIRMATION THIS REPURT AND

ANY FOLLOWUP DATA FROM IUSTEER IF POSSIBLE OR OTHER SOURCES:

4.

FILE:

201-283488 AND 201-300614.

END OF MESSAGE

69. Fäd3S

•(pical

tratorence miraber,

33281

7

7

C/SOD/AB_ Paul Gottke (1n draft)

WH/COG

WILLIAN V. BROE

C/WHD

FELLASINO OFFICEA

JOHN C

MURRAY

AC/WH/2

CONCURS

"SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OrnEr THred Me, SUVING OF.

¿ IS PROHIBITED.

сам на

---

## Page 5

INMIGRATIOS & NATURALIZATION NAME CHECK

DATE :

7 APRIL 1967

CLASSIFICATION:

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, ROGELIO ENRIQUE

---

## Page 6

INMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION NAME TRACE

7 APRIL 1967

CLASSIFICATION:

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT:

WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO ROGELIO

---

## Page 7

Miant, Fla. August 23 1965

Mr. Gerald Sounders

P.0. Box 831

Miami, Fla.

Dear Jerrys

Wish

to thank you for your personal concern

and satisfactory solution obtained in the finan-

cial settlement of my case.

I consider it a priviloge to have worked with

you, cooperating in a small way to preserve De-

socracy 1n the Republic of Congo.

If I can ever be of service to the United

States -beloved country of my ancestors- I would

consider. it a high honor.

Do let me hear from you and feel sure that I

am your devoted friend.

Sincerel!

Eduardo J. Whitencuse

446 N. E. 39th St

Miami,

Fla.

MICROFICHE

<23 AUG 65

201-300614

---

## Page 8

14-00000

20 August 1965

MEMORANDUS TO: Chief/KUCURL/HENGEN

FROM

: Edward W. LORENTZ

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Eduardo Whitehouse

:

Dir-35418

1.

Edward W. LORENTZ met with Eduardo Whitehouse on 17 August

1965,

relative to

finalizing the Whitehouse claim for monies still

due fron his previous contract. LORENTZ emphasized that he was

authorized to pay monies due per contract through 7 April 1965,

plus a four day

layover in Rome during Whitehouse's return to the

"U.s.

This lajover was due a Panam strike of which Whitehouse was

inadvertently delayed through no fault of his own.

2.

The aforegoing authority is based on ref and calculated

as follows:

A. Base Pay for March - USD 800.

B. Base Pay. 7/30 for April - USD 186.66

plus USD equivalent of USD 41.00 for actual expenses

while 2¿ days in Rome.

C. Total USD 1027.66.

full

3.

Whitehouse although feeling

that he should be allowed the

amounts due amounting to USD

1950.00 has accepted such adjud-

ication of his claim.

LORENTZ feels that possibly he was suffic-

iently satisfied that he received any funds;

"that probably in his

sense of fair play that the case might be considered closed..

For

the record, what medical treatment received by Whitehouse amounted

to under USD 200.

To further complete the record the following

attachnents are enclosed:

A.. Letter from Dr. Elkhoury.

B.

Second letter from Whitehouse to Jack

Anderson, Leop.

C. Letter from Whitehouse to LORENTZ.

D. Bills

of actual charges in Rome.

E. Receipt from

Whitehouse for final payment.

2::

F. Station memo concerning newspaper inquiry..

26 Aid 65

C/- 300614

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Less than 24 hours after facing whitchouse to advise him

that his claim of USD 1950 had been reduced to

1027. 66, Khitchouse

an exemplary manner when he

could have sapcter with i adverse feeling:

The Subject despite

difficultics encountered in the field with KUBARK advisors. appears

to be man of honor and certainly under contrölled situations fasn

professional pilot and could be an asset to KUBARK interests.

E. V. Jeremy.

Edward W. LORENTZ

---

## Page 10

14-00000

3----

POLICLINiONE DU

OCETEUR L ENTOURY

d'uni fine appetivins

Gomme di tritonantine

duo emilian ctitola

cant pia tema e ta

denni positions apirti

201-300614

---

## Page 11

Vinna, Fino June I0ch 1645

Coz.

c.:.

Lec

=.

Dara

azi tacto

11.

1.3

Co:

077497

C:"

ari

C:

Cr:.

1.й.

...8:

cit!

tris

•c:

janni

kirrock:

"==:

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT

dadamellanto.

---

## Page 12

Haul: 225. dusust 13 19:5

jerry Sounders

C Son

÷31

112=s

Fia.

Dear i5. Sounders:

three

wraths bare passed by since ey return from

Locolatle mid as I carlalted to rou ir ou-

rast

cetrod, me counts acries onuing to the basic ray

of

-When

cort==e=

ed- are still unpaid therctora lea-

virg

an

outstandlag balance of

$!950.00 in ry favor.

although I enfleciate your concera in this case,

Wish

about cortain tacts concorning

Arches dive medal how evesy cens

the

=entioned

siount was earncd.

ther

7220€

Fausto Gosez was shot doin near sunla

- Joc.

two

1?th

1964-

sat dir Ease beenag aralized as

Filess resigned and the only ore remaining

was

ready

leare.

every one refused to take charge

the

bel:

Base

occ-use of the proxirity or the re-

dard.

darg

tanices

1=;

sing living conditions below stan-

under these añverse circurs-

rosition of Chie: Pilot ard lett

the

cers oi Stanleyradie.

Arrived to

Bania

Dcs.

2nt:

and nort coy reasinod dull air

0:

crations

2.31

siors

[Cr

the revols flying tro and three sis-

day as

iron leader with row unergerienced

Pilots

2i0se

icES

did not nave sucoting.

crabat ta-

^350

instrue=

cherciore I irsiructed thea ari

in

•Jond

Rocka

int

instrument ilving: etc.

We hit

tho

Can ba

String then to

retreat to tie vo-

burier

ni

stor

Hortreust Congo.

Godorcid. Nunergo -11-

the Interior- corsonally congratulated us lor

•Ou?

¿cco

1..

shenerts in benalf of the Congo.

When

parasites,

etc.

cricted

treatnent.

recover ard having lost 25 curds,

D=.

nested in roturn to !

mi for a more a-

conuste

treat

otostatio cory ci certifiente are

atiochod.

drille A:ril

1965 with the un-

derstand:

I

that

=

contract was not being cancelled.

circeraly beliere

that by work and dedication

thro-

the enti

vas

ca-paing in Forthoes: Congo deser-

the

Pull rajaano ci

the sertiones

contract.

Your considerazion to this matter sould be apiresia-

ted.

: Sirceraly,

E. J. Wiltehouse

cc:

₽..

Robert

Flate

---

## Page 13

on :

VIA'AX SETTKMBRE JO

:EL. 463038

•З

nppariamerto..

Arrangiamento

Comostici

Piccola coluzione

•ile

2÷

Tuati

Vini

Liguori

Mirria

Argan Minerali

Rivita

Pir

Arles

legat

lini

Sandwichos.

oria

Riporto

Totale

Trialis

Strizio

un.n.

-1?

2:

21 .

.122

100

.:?.

'i',

I Siga. Chenti sono pregali di pagare il conto. entro il giorno della proseniaziono.

---

## Page 14

.ni

-

A. BERGO

REALE - Roma

V:A LA SETTEMBRE, 5O

0. 5O:ETTl 2i02

Comera Ni 421

Sig.

.Telefono interurbano

1557

iGE

Bollo . :.

TOTA!E

!

Lite a illicas

Molece =

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT

diglie:

201-300614

---

## Page 15

GASSION TE FlAr

aioré de ouur ao..

w:t 0::@ brr.10.graucuO

ersto:r 0.s16..

50.50

ASSIF:50 NESSIGE

SECRET

IT MOrOIID

roial cooirs2im

¿EFUOCLETION PROMIBITED

1019

IAFO

Sc.a á

B RID COPY

FILE, 1B, AFZ, WH128, 052

J...ueg

Arsoprrò

SECRET :900N8Z

DIR CITE

CHAPPIE

ITHRUSH

&ECUR PERUMEN

REF:

BANE S CA

15139)

ICENTITIESE. A JANICE MIZAYA, AKA UANICE ROMAN, CLAIMS

SEGRETAR: TO IDEN S.

R .

ROBERT ROGERS, NAZIUNA: BROADCASTING COMPANY..

÷ 9 AuC 55 N 35 | 37

SECRET

CFM. 51ES SiPA

A JANICE MIVATA ANG LANiCE FOMAN Z B ROBERT ROGERS

NATIONAL BROADEASTING COMFANÍ

StlAiEA

MICROFTCHE

'13 ALE- 65

201-300614

---

## Page 16

14-00000

+:o1096911040

il •::0

165?03"

Osi6.

roOM

1(T100

1aro

s=.+

trer?il

!.

..

C'"SIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTIO!

PROMIBITED

=-fi

E RID COPY

Die Duerro

sl."t.11..

19 Suc 65 M 35 1 39

SEINEA

MICROFICIE

19. AUG 65

Bi-300641

---

## Page 17

MESSAGE FORU

TOTAL COPIRA 26

0R16: 5.

TAl:

DIT

145/3

4÷76

§ NO INDIA

S/SECREI

DATE: 12

1222:21265

Il PILE iN CO PiLE NO: 201-300818

то і летА"".

FR. LORENTZ)

13 AUG AUGOS

та

TAVE (:ON LORENTZ)

INFO

CITE DER

CHAPPE

35418

"I TITUSH PBRUMEN

ErF:

FE 4130 (IN 21101)*

FE REP AND TELECON WITH LORENTZ 5 AUG, RECOMMEND

3& UM) BE PAID SALARY THROUGH ? APR 65 (DATE RETURNED

MIAMT! MIL ALL MEDICAL EXPENSES DUE ILLNESS RELATED CONGO TOUR.

ROS T:D/ES TATS SEITLEMENT GENEROUS IN VIEW # PERFORMANCE IN

rosca. i.f., GROUNDED SIX WEEKS, RETURNED PRIOR EXPIRATION

CUTAICE, PLUS PIELD EVALUATION AS-MARGINAL PILOT AND TROUBLESOM?

ANANL. I PHOBLES. REALIZE THIS MAKES W SHORT FIVE WEEKS SALARY;

CA MiNEN HANT KUBARK SHORT ELEVEN WEEKS MIS CONTRACTED SERVICES

2. MAL, FROM REVIEN W 201 PILE, BELIEVE H REASONABLE ENOUCH

SCON: AROVE SETTLEMENT GRACEFULLY. DESIRE LORENTZ DO UTHOST

FAITER CASE PER ABOVE TERMS. HOWEVER, IF IT APPARENT # UNHAPPY

ESCUAT TO CAUSE UNFAVORABLE PUBLICITY, LORENTZ AUTHORIZED

SEGOTIATE SETTLENENT UP TO TOTAL REMAINDER SIX MONTHS SALARY. - ....

END OF MESSAGE

13' AUG 651

•ies ica

daoision to

aubg olains for back

pay.

SOD/AD/OPS/3_

-201-300614

F7i/C/MO

BERNARD S.

HILLIAN V. BROE

6/1973

ad...d.oa 100.000

C/SOD/AB

AUTORNTICATING

---

## Page 18

14-00000

10ra.. D1s 040.

CLASSIFO TO TILE NO.

Pile as.

AI:O

1 Res. T danacH O

Distaor Osic.

¡SIFIEO MESSAGE

POTAL COPIAS

SY- SECRET

02/11.800

IMWAVE

ADVANCI COPY

SOD6 . ERID COPY •

D..üro

C..

Toro

FIEVR WH/CS, AFT, CI/OA

REPRODUCT ION PROMIQIIS

Teo Oruero

?9 JU 65 M 2 1 10!

.? :

?Sie4

WAVE - 4430

Cin eiTE tave

44.32

Mirhte cihhousk perdiei

i2F: D1l 84462

LEFEATO CIAMI FRNOS:

01 01.730 0101030 659 21

CorDO M1.L:

EFDAT. MITGUGUCR CLATGOR

-on ?l !: 11112211

Til teio Subtitt tre merrertett tletlid

:.

.. L00 1REH.1 200019011.191

SSMET

{ 29 NUL 65)

301-3006y

---

## Page 19

sit; befo

12 July 1965

TO: HENGEN

FROM: Edward W. LORENTZ

SUBJECT: Eduardo Julius Whitehouse

ERICA CV

1.

As we both know the hitehouse case has been kicked around

sufficiently that the finalizing of the case should be effected as

soor as possible.

My trip with Larry Murphy to Dow Leutcher's office,

in my estimation didn't produce any effective decision.

Mr. Leutcher's

point of view was,

due the

money, don't pay him.

Is the man was due the moneype facts If he was not

I will give you

as I see them

and if you.feel that it is prudent to seek

the advice of Jack Anderson

for his opinion I'm

sure it will be most helpful.

Micati

A.

LEOP-7030 dated 30 Nay, indicates receipt of (W)

intention to terminate contract effective 13 May.

Additionally, stipulates (w) incapacitated six weeks

and requests authorization for immediate return and

treatment.

Your 91928 of 1 April, concurs requests of Leop.

Additionally, Ok

you stipulate to terminate contract the day the Subject departs

Leop.

LEOP-8028

of 2 April, stipulates that Leop, "terminating (W)

contract and returning first availabl?"

Requires

medical attention

not available Leop.

Malady due conditions advance basis complicated

lact of proper medical attention and maltrentment.

B: Para 2 same message, Indicated another.

medical/ no, int so! Coote

case (Menedez) would

remain Leop dispite fact "he

insters itin want

can contribute nothing".

LEOP-8054 states (N) departed 3 April, via PAA, transterring

flight in Rome.

presented me with three days Horel Wills in Rome

to cover what he considered evacuation flight plus PAA on strike.

LEOP-8117 dated 7 April, allowed Perez to depart 8 April and ou

recommended approval to pay full salary till 25 April

(Opinion - 1s rutl

this a case of paying a man full salary on one hand while not paying leafeel

another under the same circumstances)?

place nault

DIR-99498 of Y April, requested details of (N) medical case..

6/8

7.

LEOP-7150 dated

28 day, stipulates (li) returned on vidiltion

not "Leop request".

contact lestor to execute voluntary

termination of

not executed.

departure 3 April not at

Leop request.

(Opinion - in a contractual relationship it appears

lid!

12.10165

201-300614

MICROFIC:.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

-2...

hiphly unlikely to "request" somoone to leare or terminate written dung per

coüldn't one direct in lieu of request)?

NAVE-0832 dated i6 April, fave medical evaluation which was

reviewed by NAVE Medical personnel.

(Opinion - in debriefing of Sub-

Ject I was personally: convinced this man was sick. Furthermore. (W)

advised that he is in

possission of medical report by Dr. El Khorury

that it was nanditory for (W) to be evacuated for adequate medical:

treatment.

WAVE-k157 dated 3 May, indicated (W) still under going

continuous medical treatment.

on April 19; (w) signed our local Quit Claim

Form, but recent

conversation with the Subject indicated that he felt that although the

Form was signed that the "company would live up to its promises".

11. There is no doutt that (w) was ill and based upon medical

opinion, as late as 7 May, in my personal observation that the man was

Incompatiated from performing a full time job that based upon the fact

that no definitive or written agreement was made prior to departure,

that the. Subject be paid in tull for the six months term of his contract.

(Opinion - there is know doubt in my mind that this man firmly believes

that he is entitled to the salary based strictly upon the fact that he

was

"evacuated" not terminated.

12.

•I don't feel the man is unscrupulous enough to blackmail to

obtain what

he feels is truthfully.

speak to

he

feels is his.

anyone of influence

his, but feel positive that he will

in obtaining back salaries that

Cite the five reasonably important personnel refer-

ences that he lists on his Job Application Form. We are not dealing

with the common type individual using vealied threats, but someone who

ts an intelligent individual who at one time exerted enough influence

on Jack Anderson

to appoint a Chief Pilot and further influence Gen.

Lewis Walsh into taking action to hire some of his buddys;

EDWARD IY. LORENTZ

---

## Page 21

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

file et

DAT= 15 JUDA 1965. 19-

MEHORANOUM FOR: CHIEF, OPS/3/AB/30D

ATTENTION:

David Labourous

C= 201-300624

The file on. WHITEHOUSB Insus, Eduardo Julies Is cancelled

and closed in CI/OA for the Pollcoing reason:

Failure, to subuit PRa-Il as required under CSi do. 10-5 or to

Indicate any furtber interest.

in obtaining approval for the operational

use of Subject.

to any future use of Subject,

it will be necessary to rurish

new approval

request (Form #T72) 10 CI/QA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEE, CT/OFERACIOLAL APPROAL MID SUPPORT DIVISIO:;

SECRET

15 IUN'E5,

R01-Je06ry

691

---

## Page 22

"sified distant

SECRET

2..0.

DEPRODIGTITA

LIGARASS

12. Our O-

Libie 086 de, Bus

SECH E T 2510223

LEOP-9150

28 Har 05 1 7 8 1 94.

ARA:MID 11727

I HASTE CETACLE SEACON ECUEEAOUSE W) RETURN EXPLAINED LEOP

AR, TORE, TEST, WEATHES GOT VOLITION ACT LEOP REQUEST.

INCAPDETES CONTACT RESTON EXECUTE VOLUNTARY TERMINATION CONTRACT.

HOT EXECUTED. M DEPARTUDE GAPRIL NOT AT LEOP REQUEST. Y

PREHOUSLY MOTIFUSE STA INTEND TERKINATE CONTRACT END SIX MONTHS.

• PROVIDING MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS POPRIME CONFIRMED LOCAL

s66F67

ROVICHE

28 MAY laS

IRC:1-300614

---

## Page 23

WILLLAM SCOTI PIPER, M.D.

2906 PONCE DU LEON BIVA

CORAL GABLES, FLONIDA

25 May 1965

ПІТТ:Е

HIGHLAND 6-647A

Ma.:

Roberto

Medell

P.O. Box 831

Miani International Airport

Miami, Fla.

33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO J.

Dear it. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse was seen by me 8 April 1965 for

a return physical examination. All laboratory

and Xray that date was relative the complete

physical examination.

The $10.00 charge for treatnent included injection,

medicine and prostate massage.

Ther was no

extra Charge for sinus treatment.

Office visits from April Ith through 23th were

primarily. for his tenseness and apprehension.

The only additional charge, relative his sinus

was a $20.00 charge for sinus Xrays

NSP : bk

Sinensely your

li віки,

Milliam S.

Piper, M.D.

14Р.

ICROFICIS

25 MAY 65

0201-3006141

---

## Page 24

25-

ROUTING

ORIG :

UNIT :

EXT I

DATE,

1O

F. DALY: Jg

SOD/ AB/OPS/3

$175

20 May 1965

LEOPOLDVILLE

MESSACE FORM

SECRET

O INDEX

AY NO INDE

DO FILE IN CS FIL NO. 201 - 300614

MICATOON NO NESTINK

1F24:

TROM DIRECTOR

CONF,

SOD 6

450 AF 6, WH/C 8, 21/01, PMA, VP, EILE

TO

LEOP

OTE DIR

12727

CHAPPIE

WITHRUSH

I EBRUMEN

8EF :

LEOP 8028 (IN 36890)

PLS ADVISE

PRECISE DETAILS RE

WHITEHOUSE (W) TERMINATION.

REF A: INDICATES TERMINATION BEING ACCOMPLISHED. HOWEVER # NOW

TO PBIRMIS

STATES HE RETURNED AT LEOP REQUEST WHILE STILL UNDER CONTRACT)

FOR PURPOSE OF CONTRACT-PROVIDED MEDICAL TREATMENT. THIREFORE

HE WANTS PAYMENT COVERING PRESENT MEDICAL BILLS AND BACK SALARY. :

• END OF MESSAGE.

AF/5 Iom Baskett. (Phone)

Faire

кошкі

E. N.

TERNATS

BERNARD J. FINAY. JR.

_C/SOD/AB-

25 MAY 65

Іно дрист

AUT

SECREI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Caoy No.

201 - 300614.

---

## Page 25

1254s See?

118 MAL 65)

:301-300614

---

## Page 26

14-00000

196

MRIORANDUS POH: CAleR, SOD/AlT Brauch

SUBJECT

STRUSH COaSTOR

d.

Letener, OP/CPD,

fanlidar and indor onion Babardo 1it000uas Borrod da Ebo

malo is the arablord conirnos for Cuban and Duropasa

MIThRUSH D1108 08p10y9e8.

Spoolicaily, I osa latordtod lo

Leasalog Iron Mr:

Letcher if de boisored taragraph y D could

be appiicable to the oase al as. Thitchousa alnoo lir. Maltebaue

desires asslotange 10 payina sodiool bilis for a physical disi

abdally (nh1cb Day De BeEporary) thiou day bavo been inourrod

wullo he nao serving ullà us la lào Congo.

8.

FAID DODOraDULA DAXOS TACOrO af tho LuOSthat,

judgiag

Sron that tr, Laconus had to say abour the rIfluai consroos.

aud Biao 10 vor of do. Ben Defailoc's recodily apressod con

QaIn

ragarulng she besefits abpeots of last ooberace..

Adtion

Rades do ferdo and, da Becagary, revise

8ho. 000t.0

at tha saridont poggihis date.

Tals ofeso

fron

tho strong pos-

ciblifty shoe Cuban paioco sho ouffer 1=jur100 or 018u08111108

_t00lala b9n0i1t0 alter tho seralnation ef the oonzroot.

for

nonustlons mh10b elainate Guring tha teru of the contract.

Go 13 day

1E05 1 prorided Mr. Letohor with a drats

poresining so rotary sing

alrirall paloba only and cased lans la rovien 11 saú judgo 18a

anaquady.

Frank Daiy

S00/ Ab/08$/3

!la: 81b01,1001:

atlease

Pis leecteer

Chrong

5:1. 101.9: ker/1.8

14 MAY: 65)

201-300614

MICROFICHE

---

## Page 27

14-00000

VILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M.D:

LNISLESIIY CLINIC

::GE POSCE DI LLONILED.

CORAL CADLLS, FIONIDA

7 kay 1905

1=. Roberto 16da11

RESIDENCO PHONE: 11 8- 5105

OPPICE PHONE: 1116-8874.

3x221

238

1945

gratae?

C""::

12- 21002 cors...

sacrato

ingoccira,

25.0:13

1505-

45.

$ 15.00

:1.

E.a.

ci:1s

=

$8.00

-32.00

15.60

25.00

20.93

1.00

1EU?

EICROFICHE

DMAYES

801-300614

---

## Page 28

A-21:7442

WILLIAMSCOTT PIPERM.D.

2906 PONCE DE LEON BLYA

CORAL DABLAS, PLORIDA

7 May 1965

TELEPHONS

HIGHLAND GINATO

Mr.

Roberto Medell

P.0. Box 831

Miant International Alrport

Miami, Fla. 33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse has had sinus trouble off and on

for many years.

This has been increased recently,

probably due to pressure changes in aircraft.

It has been advised tiat he have a nasal operation

for deviated septum. This structural defect is in

no way related

to his occupation.

Singergly yours

Nillion. Pfor, mo

Willian S. Pipor, M.D.

WSP: bk

7 MAY.

65

901-300614

Toronto

---

## Page 29

4-00000

SETIM WAVE

ASSIFIED HESSAGE

2130

SECRET

PERSONI

'UMIT MOTIFICO

ADVANCE COPY

TOTAL COPIES

Broo.

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

UM 1 1

W.0Т0 D

SEC.RE I . 0322412

DIR CITE WAVE 1451

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH MEDIC PBRUMEN

REF:

WAVE-0832 ( 46796"

LORENIZ MIAMI SENDS.

!. LOCAL CLEARED MEDIC TREATING EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE ADVISES SUBJ

NOT RESPONDING TREATMENT ACUTE AND CHRONIC SINUSITIS. LOCAL ENT

EPECIALIST RECOMMENDS SUBMUCOUS RESECTION FOR CORRECIION DEVIATED

SEPTUM.

2. REGUEST HQS OPINION IF SURGERY CAN BE PERFORMED UNDER TERMS

OF CONTRACT AND CITE SUBJ WAS MEDICALLY CLEARED PRIOR DEPARTURE

FOR CONGO.

3. FORWARDING MEDIC REPORI VIA POUCH.

SECRET

ONE SUBTS

MEDICAL

SEUREA

FRANK

I HAVE TALKED TO BEN DEFEZICE

CONCERNING THIS - UL MAVE

THE ACTION NEW PLE SEETE.

LARAGICROFIOIE

•3 MAY 65

501-300614

---

## Page 30

MAP. 4-0099

Dispatch No. L'AFA, 0099

Date:

то:

- Chief. NUCURI

FROM .

cief, TUPACAN

SUBJECT:

WITHRUSH Crew Training Report

REFERENCE: DIR 85744, paragraph 3(D)

forwarded herewith is subject report of training and pliot evalua-

tion conducted by Carlisle B. FORNEGAR as requested per reference.

Philip L. MISHER

Chief, rUPAGiN

Attachment:

a/a h/a

s/c (Idens)

Distribition:

0 & 2-NUCURE

2-JUBAGAN

CoPy

29 APR 65.

201-300614

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Astochment to Dispatch No. UAPA 0099

ME ORANTUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: STIHRUSH Chew, Training Report

1. The object of the crew training was to test each pulot on his

knouledge of the aircraft systems and energency procedures and to check

ride each pilot and siva him refresher training as required.

?.

The following named plots recelved ground and flight trainina

as. listed belon;

Iden A

Iden B

Iden

Iden.

Iden

E

Iden

Iden

G

Iden

Iden: I

Hend training

1O4

1o%

204

EACG

8400

10}

26:00

26400

20+00

3.. Ivaluation of each pilot as followg:

7+20-

1430

1430

44. 30

4t35.

S05.

• 7420

Ob'a.

10÷40 - 158-8105

642G

Iden A - Had flown C-u6 about 1200 hours before and was

I gave several engine our - single

engine

landing and go arounde - no flap landing - energency geet

extension. Short field jandinge seyeral Ils approsches.

Iden - was the pilot who cracked up the other Colo, plus

he was unwilling to fly at night.

I gave him la hours of air time

and recommended he be used only as a copilor on groinda of poor

head work.

Iden E - Me la an nider pilot sho would bounce the airplane

and then sit there suiting for it to hii again, richout adding poser

to let it doin easy.

He alge wanted to feather the vrong engine

after one was cut.

Recurrinded he only be used as a co-pilor.

d. Iden D - He had been flying in and around Iden j for several.

years, hurever, in his trainina he mas quite sloppy in his flylie.

he would not come wichin 200 of assigied heading ture ot

the begining.

---

## Page 32

Also he las very rough wish she

airplane in pitch contrel.

On ILS

appriaches he touid vary the manifold pressure from lê" to 30° to

tri and stay on ine gilde elope.

Or. short fleld landing and take-

off airer about gixlof then he started

approaching the procedures

I bas trylig to show him, but l bas convinced as soon. as I'left. the

ares he would retum to hia on style of ilying.

I reconnended that

at the end.of his six month confract which was about 30 days evey

he be

terminated.

e.

OurB.

I recomönded he be used as PIC in C-46'a.

Iden f= Mis nan was suppose to have had a good deal of

experience, but hie flying left very much to be desired.

He had

just been convalescering from amebic dysentery. He replted when:

asked, that he felt up to flying but his performance was very poor.

He decided he still didn't feel up to flying and returned to the

doctor's care..

Iden.G - Had previous multi-engine experience and co-pilot

time in the B-â6'e.

He progressed satisfactory and with 7420 hours

was released to the field. to fly in right seat

to observe tactics

and gain more experience before noving to leît seat as pIC.

h. Iden ll - Had liaited experience, horever, he was very inter

eated and applied himself to the task of checking out in the B-26k.

He was very helpful in reproducing pover limitationg and purer sotting

for the CH-it-!?

aeries engine and also reproduced the Pat pamphlet

un the CB-ib-1i seried engines, wich I had brought along es a train-

1ng sid..

This was made required resding material for all B-26 drivers.

This man rude alury at an observer while Iden G. was being trained,

which aided him when he started fäying.

I recommended he alsu be

released to

the

field and ride the right seat so observe tactics

and gain mire experience before fljing missions in the left meat.

i.

Iden I = The Chief, Pllat of the group la a very apable

plior sino applies nirelf very all.

He appears to be interested

in improving the

professional standurds of his pilots. I had

several ridas with hir (ixz0) until I felt he would be able ro

inserict the most

of the pilots in the proper procedures to be

used in the Brilk's.

4.

The trasming program was quite curtalled try the restrletions to

Iden

• .

Hast of

the pilots

were required to renali out in the field to

meet

querational needs.

Alg0

only one 8-26 vas available in Iden kahich

---

## Page 33

was In check till ig March and then vas nor available to other daye

because öf maintenance.

is.

& reconnend that his Operations Officers be checked out in the

equipment they are eupervisors for in order so keep en iop of theii pilota

proficency.

Me pilors that are sent over should be screened better so

not to require so nuch training in the field.

Carliole B:. FORNEGAR

---

## Page 34

4-00000

Separate Cover Aftschrent to

Disperch 50. LAPA -0099

Iden A = Fausto Valdes

Iden B - Jaga teres Menen

Iden C - Francioco Valliciergo

Iden D. - Efrain Morantes

-Iden L - Castor Cerecede

iden: I - Theodore Wii tehouse

Iden G = Rene Travieso

Iden H - Lula Ardols

Iden I ~ Jack Varela

Iden j - Afriça

•Iden & - Leopoldville

---

## Page 35

MILLIAMSCOTI PIPER ND.

2906 FONCE

DE'LION DIYA

rro:1910:re.

23.A0zil 1955

Crec: RiF. no.*

rosesto liedcll

2.0. 30x 831 :

Lari Insernational Airsort

Land,

Fla.

33148

30:

445

33412203.

Sea se.

Fla

Đoặr :.

edell,

i=.

-alouso has boon unde

stage

for acute and cronic Ciluele:

wiich ias failed to clear.

He bas

scen

sech sy looser cliver, M.d.,

ayo,noco and chagat soocharist too

ras

ca=,

IcCo==-

of deviates septun.

I corcue with the diagrosis and reconcencation

05 5u50-51.

2S APR 65

MICROFICHE

201-300614

---

## Page 36

..SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

AND

REVIEW

26 12211 2905

TO:

Chier, OPS/3/AE/SOD

с по.

?

ATTH: David. Lanoureux

FROM: CHIEF, CI/DA

/8/ Edward Re grown

201÷300,614

SUBJECT:

WETT HOUSE Insus,

Eduardo Jultua

IN ORDER THAT FLATHER CONSIDERATION VAY BE

GIVEN VOLA REGUEST FOR

APPROVAL

IN THIS

CASE.

IT IS REQUESTED.

YOU FLONISH THIS.OFFICE THE INFORMATION

CHECRED.

BELON:

OR REVIE INFORMATION 'AS

INDICATED.

'D DOSSIER

IronusTica

SECURITY OST. DEPORT AT CI'OA

CONCURRENCE. MEMO AT COCOA

ATCI'OL

AFFERENCE

ATIONAL dAS DiNISION TOICES

VITS OF TIC-RICAL INTERROGATION

sari oriras ( see tomerhos

18c09.

Pod expired on 26 April 2965 Co Please subnit PRO:

Part II. If, within 30 days, no further interest 1n Subject has..

been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled.

26 APR 65

Ercticed tos at:.2?:

damn 12: 1: 118

/)

889

301-5004

SECRET

---

## Page 37

SECRET

поті818В.

0.00

COMTO CO

JArAKE

10о

-S0D6

P. I4 156i30g N/C8 2/0052, Gen

8507

SICO IT 1623937

DIR CITE VAVE 9838

CHAPPIE WITHHUSH MEDIC PERUMEN

17116n46798

REF DIR: 99498

LORENTZ SENDS!

l nishine

1. IpX SUBJECT WITHIN HORHAL LIAITS EXCEPTED ELEVATED BP 130/10d

CHRONIC ACUTE SINUSITIS, RESIDUAL AMDEBIASIS, ACUTE ANXIETY REACTION.

RECEIVIDO MEDICATIONS THESE CONDITIONS UNDER LOCAL COVERT PHYSICIANS

•DIRECTION 2-3 TIRES VEENLY.

2. LOCAL PHYSICIANS RECOMMENDATION SUBJICT HAVE MIBIRAL

ACTIVITY UNTIL SYMPTOMS ARE RELIEVED AND UNDER CONTROL : HO

HOSPITAL IZATION EXPECTED.

3O HO SIGHIFICANT FACTS IN DEBRIEFINO ALTHOUGH SUBJECT CLAIRED

HE RECEIVED "LUJECTIONS® IN LEOP UNDER DOCTOR'S CARE THAT EFTECTED

HIS HERVOUS SYSTEM. THIS FACT IS MOT INCLUDED IN MIAMI MEDIC REPORI.

A. FORVARDING DETAILED REPORT VIA POUCH.

SECRET Y

ADVISE ON PHYSICAL EXAG,

CFA

Strial

C17 ARE 65)

201-300614

---

## Page 38

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTICIÇO

608.189

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

FROM

LEOPOLDINLE

ADVANCE COPY

Астіон

AET

inFo

VR. FILE DOP, L07F/C 8, 500C

to: 397999

S

EGRET 14IDASZ

'DIR 'CITE LEOP 8248

WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

BE REF: DIR @1131.#

REF 100 USD ADMINISIRATIVE PAY AS CHIEF PILOT BUNIA.

SE CREW

CFN

SECRET

N

1 4APR 65 1: 44880

Cell: 11741-7316016 NSs

1100 RATE

SALARIX

14 APR 65

MICROFICHE

201-300614

---

## Page 39

WILLIAMSCOTIPIPER.ID.

1506 PONCE DE LION ILYA

CORAL GABLES.

FLORIDA

9 April 1965

TELEPHONE

HIGHLAND & 4478

Mr.. Roberto Medell

P. 0. 30х 831

Mani, Fla. 33148.

Re: WHITEHOUSE, Eduardo

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr.. Whitehouse was seen by me yeaterday for a

general physicál examination.

He holds a current.

F.A.A. Class Il nedical certificate issued by

me 10 Nov. 1964.

Mo. Whitehouse related a-history-as follows:

He has been out of the country for five months

and had bloody diarrhea off and on for 2 months.

He has had sinus trouble with pain and nasal

discharge and increäsed symptoms with pressure

changes.

His weight loss has been 20 pounds.

His prostate becane inflanned and tender.

Results of yesterdays physical exam are as follows:

Chest ray was

normal and consistant with one taken

at this office 10 November 1954; B.E.N. & T. all

normal; Heart - normal size, rhythn, sounds; Abdumer

-negative including hernia;

Thyroid - normal; 3lood

Pressure 150/104; pulse rate at rest - 74;

Flectrocardiogran was within nornal limits; urinaly-s

Rate 3/n. 9. 14 gas. &36 4, 500,000 N 7, 700

- nes. alb. - neg.

diff. - seg.

62 'lymph. 31 stab. 4 mono. 3;

This patient is at present in an acute Anxiéty State,

has acute and chronic sinusitis,.

and seems to be re-

covering frun what is probably chronic amoebic dy

sentary.

I found the prostate to be normal.

His sinuses were treated with drops and diathermy.

I asked that he keep a temperature chart, Durabolin

Icc was given i.m. and three other medicines were

GAPR 15)

361-306614

---

## Page 40

IFLEFBOXE

HIGHLAND 6-6578

WILLiÄN SCOTT PIPER M.D.

2506 PONCE DE LEON BLYO

CORAL GABLES, PÉÖRIDA

- cont'd = 2:

WHITCHOUSE; Edwardo

given to be taken orally for treatment of his sinuses

and his anxiety state.

Mr. Whitehouse is to return today for another sinus

treatment, Xrays of the sinuses, and he is to bring

in a specimen of feces.

His treatment should

continue approximately two or three times weekly

until his sinuses are clear and medication relleves

anxiety state and nervousness.

Thank you for referring this airman.

sincerely-yours

Pil А вів,

WilliamS. Piper,

M:D.

WSP: bk

---

## Page 41

ONG F.DALY: kas

init. .SUD/AB/örs3

от , 4475

DATE 6 April 1965

O INDEX

O NO NODI

O ALI IN CS ALI NO

TO •JITAVE (FÖR LORENTZ)

FROM DIRECTOR

at S0D-6

то

28

MESSACE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

10z

walk, FiLe, DDP, WinK WrKC-2, AF-6, D/msa, Sio Gat

WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

CiTE DIR

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

ADVISE FOLL RECWHITEHOUSE:

(2) CONDIT AS DETERMINED BY PHYSICAL EXAM,

(2)

AMOUNT BOSPITALIZATION REQUIRED IF ANY,

(3) RESULTS DEBRIEFING IF SIGNIFICANT.

END

OF MESSAGE

MS. MA CORRIcAN (TOUCON)

99498

WH/C/MO

LE MOUGIAN (FiREZON)

APRi - 65

219.1144

11 BERNAND J. FINAN, JI.

COORDIETING ORDI

-BEEN RE

A'REPROLUETION DY OTHEA TMAN THE ISSUING OPRICE IS PROMIATIEO

LICROFICHE

Copy N.

201-300614

---

## Page 42

14-00000

GLASSIFIED NESSAGE

3

SECRET

PERSON! UNIT NOTIFIED.

•TOTAL COP 159

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

LEOPOLDILLE

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

SOD 6

O sure

inro

V8. FILE, DDP, AF6, WH/C 8, eCS 3, 0P2, 0E 3,

ECRET 041600Z

+ 4 AR 65 IN 37757

PRIORITY WAVE INFO DIR CITE LEOP 8054

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

WHITEHOUSE DPTD LEOP 032145Z MIA VIA ROME LISBON SCHED DPT

LISBON PAA 255, 4 MAR:

SECRET

CFN

T4APR 65

=01-3.06614

---

## Page 43

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CHIT. MOTIFICO

TOTAL COPIES

2.9

гном

ACTION

iNFo

LECrEDVILLE

DOVANCE COPY

SOD :

-=

UNIT

VR. FILE, AF 6, DDP, WH/c 8; CC 3, D/ms 2; CuUA

REPROQUET ION PRONIBITED

TIME

1400

S

E CRE T 021410Z

2.SatE 3000

PRIORITY DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEOP 8028

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEM

FEFS: A. DIR 9 1928 *

3• LEOP 7937 (/N

33942)

1. PER INSTRUCTIONS REF A,TERMINATING WHITEHOUSE CONTRACT

RETURNING NEST AVAILABLE. REQUIRES MEDICAL ATTENTION NOT AVAIL.

ABLE LEOP. MALADY DUE CONDITIONS ADVANCED BASES COMPLICATED

LACK PROPER MEDICAL ATTENTION AND MALTREATMENT.

? ricanet wilhe

""?

twas

2. PARA 2 REF B REQUESTED AUTHORIZATION RETURN

SUBJECTS,

TERMIVATION CONTRACT NOT SPECIFIED PEREZ RETURN REQUESTED

LEOP CONVENIENCE, CAN@CONTRIBUTE NOTHING REMAINING LEOP.

DESIRES COMPLETE SIX MONTH CONTRACT TERMS.

SECRET * Instructed Leop to terminate contract the day subj diparts liop.

CFN

SECRET

2 APR.65)

201 + 300614

---

## Page 44

ROUTING

firs

11/0153

212SSX:G3 303M

SECHLI

.4155

24R.1 AN 65

O LEOPOLDVILLE

INGiE CURECTOR

= NO NEIX

CHIS MINO.

JATAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

0o AF 6, DDP, WUHK8, VR, FILE

PILIONITE DEOP

iNa lAVE (FOR LORENTZ): ON DA

CHAPPIE HITIRUSH PERIMEN

REF: LEOP 7937. (IN 33912)

Whiteliuse

97928

DiR - 91928

1.

CONCUR REQUESTS PARA? REF.

NEEN SA TERINTE CONTRACT DAY SUBS DEPARTS LEOP.

SINCE

TEICIINITION NUTUAL CONSEVT, KÜBARK PAYS RETURN TICKET COSTS.

END O MESSAGE

air Sense (alone)

I.N..

i (pheir).

SOD/SECUR_

POOR QUALITY DOCUMERT

E. N. KORK-PATTERSON

AP/COPS

CAPR 65-;

FINE, JR.

C/SOD/ AB

SECREI.

RIPROGUCIION BY OTHER THAN THESELUING GEFICE I5 PRONTATIO.

MICROFICHE

501- 300614

---

## Page 45

The l.

112

201

I._

EDUARDO CUHITENESIE

herein and hereby acknowledge

that the contractor, during the term of the agreement consummäted

between us, effective_

Nut: 13.

,468

_and. terrinated

3.

_, has fülfilled all such commitmente

as outlined and authorized in subject agreement.

Therefore, in recugnition of the good faith and good will of the

contractor and the accord and agreement between myself and the

contractor, with the termination of this agreement, I hereby release

and forever discharge the Contracting Officer, all of his agents,

employees and representatives, frem any and all claims, demands,

and liabilities in any fors, or by any party, throughout the world,

fron services performed by me for the Contracting Officer under

said agreement with the Contracting Officer.

I hereby promise I will not reveal activities, sponsors, or

any other information that came to my attention due to the performance

of my duties during the period of the contract, in writing or any

other form.

Data

SAltes, s.

Employee

Date

Witness

APR 65

IC1-30dEFOICTS

---

## Page 46

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

z SECRE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTLICH

•PROMIBITED

UM 1T

Din DO.

S

ECRET 30/09ISZ

DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEOP 7937

30H5 1 33912

CHAPPIE HITHRUSH

i PBRUMEN

1. NOTIFICATION INTENT TERMINATE CONTRACIS EXPIRATION SIX MONTH

OBLIGATION TOMAS AFONI, 30 APRIL; GASTON RODRIGUEZ, 22 APRIL; JOSE

FENENDEZ PEREZ, 26 APRIL; TED WHITEHOUSE 13 MAY.

20: WHITEHOUSE INCAPACITATED OVER SIX WEEKS AMOEBIC INFECTION,

HIGHLY NERVOUS, NO STAMINA, CONTINUES LOSE WEIGHT. REQUEST AUTHORIZE

IMMEDIATE RETURN PBPRIME DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. PEREZ INCAPACITATED

LAME BACK, THREE WEEKS REST PRESCRIBED, NO USEFUL PURPOSE

SERVED RETAINING LEOP.. REQUEST PERMISSION RETURN.

SECRET

CFN

AC?.

8BORET

2

3

31. MAK

(aS

QUICHORTI

2201-300614

---

## Page 47

CLASSIFICO NESSAGE

BY SECRET

CRSON/UNIT NOTIFICO

TOTAL COPIE

29

REPRÓDUCTI

TA PROMIBITCO

1moei

-LEOPOLDVILLE

ADVANCE CORY

5006

M. FILL AEL DAP, WHICS,

TIME

:1956

DIMS2, CCS 3, CELLA.

ECRET 31150SZ

PRIORITY DIR CITE LEOP 7977

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

313865125132

RENT LEOP 195+(N 35942) *

LUSTARK REPORTS KHITEHOUSE CONDITION GROWING PROGRESSIVELI

WORSE. PLSE ADVISE PARA 2 REF.

REQUESTED

WhiTEHOUSE BE PETURNED

SECRET

PapRiME,

T

CFN

31. MAR 65

301- 3006й

---

## Page 48

ATIPATICTIOY PROMIDITTO

Z2/.! SECRET

NOTIFIED

(EDAOLOVILLE

SOD l

VR, FILE, DOR. WN/SA GIAR4.

ĐT

580988 2017262

LEOP - 6156

19246053304

DI?

• INFO WAVE CITE LEOP

6158

CHIPPLE WITHRUSH PARUMSY

HRER DIER 74677

AE: PER PARA DUE REF, CURRENT PONDS PROCLENS POlARILY RESULTs

•A LACK OF INTESTINAL FORTUTUDE FOCUSED SY I-ES CRASH

E LAGE OF SUFFICISHT PERSOSHEL ALAG & AND 3, QUAILAELE PILOTS

CONSTANTLY REQUIRED IN FIJID.

CO LACKS AND R FAGILITIES, SINGE GRASH HAS SEGORE WANOR

CAUSE APPREMENSION AND DISSATISFACTION:

2. LEADERS ASSIGNED IN FIELD BELIEVED, BEST QUALIFIED OF THOSE

AVAILABLES

A.

9-26 CASTAR CERISERA

Bo. TA28 STAN - TRISTAN GARCIA

CO T-28 EUNIA - TED WHITEHOUSE A

THAVIESO FROM PERFORMANES TO DATE CONSIDERED MELL QUALIFIED.

UNDER CLOSE SCRUTINY VIEN FUTURE RESPONSIELE ISSIJNiENT.

WHEN ACQUIRES MORE CONGO EXPERIENCE. E

3a..

PER PARA

TVO. REE PILOTS.

Ao J-28 BUALIFIED.

TRISTAN BARERA, TOS APOST, RE TRAVIESO, NA

→Ir.

RODRIGUEZ

PAGE CUAT DOG LATE SECRETS E

4 VAN 65

---

## Page 49

WADFED MESSAGE I

SE. ET

IN 53504 PAGEZ/2

C. ÷RE TRAIVING LEG.

P2000 200E2, GNIASUIER, TUNOS.

C. ¿=dE.

VALLICIERDO,

:*EI0EZ, MGRAiTES.

DO 525. ALVEREZ, SERECEDI, VILDSZ, ÇOJAS, SERNIL, ELAZQUEZ. :

SECRET

POON G1TT Do

o ing on enspi cee ol noa un an

SECRET

---

## Page 50

UNIT SOD/23/OPS/3

EXT 7357

CAL iÓ NEVER L7SU

1O LEOPOLOVILLE

FROM DIRECTOR

cON. 50D 6

MESSAGE FORM

710x

SO 1S

Food no j: ü:==.7=228228/2

ROUTING

3

16ks:81 23

WO. NATE (PEA LORETZ) DDP, WHISAB,

69 4, VR,

FILE

LEỌP

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PEEIRCE

REP: DIR 6U256 $

=/RET SUBJECT QUALIFIED I-S NOT 1-23.

IND HATE (FOR LORENTZ)

CITE DIZ

6AA48

DiR - 64448

- END-OF-MESSAGE

*ALL CUBAN PILATS GIVEN SINGLE ENGiNE: TRANSITION

PBiRIME.

SOB/*9/083/3:1 /

15/5_

5. і Літ

15/0U?5

5=:-C-5-5-7

16. NUX.64.

23GOR 1. 20.02.

072.37.33

------

MICROFICKE

=201- 300614

---

## Page 51

atN

FLASSIFICO HESSAGE

"SECRET

34

ImwAvE

SoDE

coor

Borero tus roars

OF 41. 052

STCOET 16257 WAVE - 4905.

LEOP INFO DIO CITE SAVE 4985.

CHAPPIS"VITHRUSH PaPUMEN OTEARN#

16 0y 64in2 4444.

FLOPE"ITT. TOY MIAMI

SF."n.S:

* See HB 10 - 400-y Re

0p: 2-2/981

ACTION

INDiCATORS

¡REF AO SAVE 4738 (PAPA 2)

Reunidate. Ticket

": LEOP A26N 25790) #4

FoR Sußject.

UHITEHDUSE AID MORANTES DEPAPTING PAN AY FLIAHT 153 I:OV

17: ETA LEOP 1980 NOV 18. PLS MEET.

2. MOPANTES UNDER CONTRACT EFEECTIVE I OCT GA. THIS INFO FOR

LEOP ONLY.

•PAID SALARY THROUGH END OF NOV, ASTHORIZED IS XILOS

EXCESS BAGGAGE AND WILL CLAIM UPON APRIVAL.. NO OTHER ADVANCES..

- TRAVELIMG UNDER COLUMBIAN PASSPORT B-91779 WITH PAPRIME REENTRY

-PER"IT.

3= MOPANTES BREIFED VOULD RECEIVE LOCAL CONTRACT UPON ARRIVAL.

HAVE MAINTAINED STRICT MON ODYOXE APPROACH AND SUSJECT COOPERATIVE:

THOVEVEP REQUEST HESTON OR REP HAVE FORMALIZED CONTRACT INCLUDING

• HAZARD DUTY CLAUSE PREPARED TO MATHTAIN ILLUSION AND ALSO PF-BRIES

LOCAL SECURITY

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 52

W011

1 09 10 148 19 -

I mite

aCTiON

Sisb

LASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

R1 Do coar. I curre

stracquer los pppirin, lis

3.

BE CRET - 1516112

MMEDIATE LEOP INFO DIR BRUS CITE WAVE 4855

HAPPIE WITHRUSH/FORUMEN

15 No. 0r 2366 €

LORENTZ TDY MIAM SENDS?

1

EDUARDO VHITEMOUSE WAS PURPOSELY CANCELLED FROM SABENA FLIGHT•

WAS ADVISED BY SABEVA NEW YORK QUOTE TO CONTACT CONGO CONSULATE BRUS

FOR ISSUANCE OF VISA ON MONDAY UNDUCTE:

ADD?? IONALLY SOMEOVE OF AUTHORITY

INDEPENDENTLY RESCHECULED SUBJECT FOR MONDAY DEPARTURE ALTHOUGH

TICKED IN MIAMI CONFIRMED BRUS-LEOP SPACE OY SUNDAY:

Ö 2. HOLDING WHITSHOUSE NEW YORK PENDING FURTHER CLARIFICATION AND

LEOP DIRECTION. CAN REVALIDATE TICKIS VIA PAY AM IF ARRANGEMENTS

CAY BE EFFECTED LEOP IN TIME FOR DEPARTURE ON. 17 NOV

3. 9EA.5E ADVISE.

SECRET;. /

R

SECRET

15 NOt

i-

10881389

RI COPY E

RI COPY

---

## Page 53

ORG: Dave LamourEux

UNIT, SOD/AB/OPS-3

exT

• 7067

DATE: 14/11/64

TO , LEOPOLDVILLE

IROM DIRECTOR

core S0D6

MESSAGE FORM

I SECRET

21

TO

EXILE IN CS. ALE NO. 7-124-18/2

NO DDP, WH/SA-4, AF-4, VR, FiLe

LEOP

CHAPPIE

WITHRUSH

PBRUMEN

REF: LEOP 4609 (IN 20863)

NO WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

ROUTING

5

STG CETI

1.4156

D1R-64156

AFTER FULL CONSIDERATION OF POINTS RAISED IN REF REGARDING

WHITECIOUSE LCCEPTABILITY, HOS DISPATCHED HIM TO CONGO. AGREE THAT

CHIEF PILOT SHOULD BE CONSULTED, AND IN PAST WHEN THERE HAS BEEN

DEFINILE ANTIZATHY BY PBRUMENS HOS HAS RESPECTED FIELD VIEWS.

HQS HCHEVER DOING ALL POSSIBLE TO SUPPLY BEST QUALIFIED'&K CANDIDATES,

AND THE FIELD MUST WORK WITH THOSE THAT ARE AVAILABLE. FYI ALL

CUBAN PILOTS ARE GIVEN SINGLE ENGINE TRANSITION AND EVALUATED FOR

FLYING ABILITY PRIOR DEPARTURE PBPRIME. TOLD THEY TO FLY AIRCRAFT

ASSIGNED BY SAO. WAITENCUSE QUALIFIED TING.

END OF MESSAGE

*WHite house NoT Desided BY CHieF fiLeT At Thistime,

S0D/481005-3

•AF/COPS

SOD/AB/OPS-3

WH/SA/IOS

AF/S

Telecon

C/AB/SOD

14 Nis l)

SECRET

RIRSCSUCTION BY OTHER THAN BME ISSUING OPRICE IS PROMIBTIO

1201-360614

---

## Page 54

IN CONSIDERATION of to omployment on tho terms heroinaîter set

forth, I, Bitu: rio do Waltchouse

heroinattor called employee, hereby

azros to the folloting conditions of unployment:

1. That tho torn "employer" as uged in this agreorent shall

be the Governiont of the Ropublic of tho Cunso, or any designated

Dopartient or Agency of said Government, or any Company or Agenoy

that the said Governrent nay designato.

2. That the service to be rendered by the enployee under

this agreéront 1s to be an aircraft pilot, with no spocifio alroraft

assignmont.

3. That the ter of employment under this agreement shall bo

For a pio of gao ya frost or as not partne tho

tomanated by the employer at any timo'by thirty - 30 - days written

robico sel advango to thamployes. During the last 8ix monta tere

of this agreement, this agreengnt say, he torninated by oither the

employee or the encores thirty -30- days written notice in

cavance to the other par

4. That tee employeo shall be paid a basic, all inclusive,

salary of Eight Hundred -$800.00- Dollars per month during the first

six month term of this agrgement. During the last six month tor

of this agroanent, sthe erologoo shall do pala a basio, all inlaluaivo,

salary of line Eundred -$900.00*1

Dollars por month. That the smoloyoo

shall be paid an additiodal Ter

-$10.00 - Dollars per flying hour:.

each nonth, for fall flying hours th excass of soventy flying. hours

por month.

So that dig employed accepts the responsibility of,

paymont of all applicablo tatosion all incone carnod

tho toro i agreement.

6o That Cag ompl0y00 shall bo furnishod round trip

stolsist

casa sir tgansportation costs fron liars, florida, to dostination,

and return, and all other exponsos diroctly relating to the travel

Involvod. Insche event at the termination of this agresjent, the

employee accepts emploftent with an omployor oter than tho

Govornnons of the Republic'of the Conco, the roturn transportation

cost shall not be paid said emplojeo.

?. That the orpi0500 shall begmovidod with

tilo following

bonofits during the torn of this agroosant:

A 150no:ary bonofit of $10,000 in the ovent of his

death fron any causo whatevor during the torm of

thi's agrooment.

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT

13 NeV 64

ee1+300614

• AICACTICEST.

---

## Page 55

of his doath by acuidental roans whilo aboard a tested

aircraft while operating in a non har ridi aren and

engagod in tho porformanco of services undor tais

agreenont PROVIDED goath occurs within 90 days of the

accident.

cAn additional noretary bonofit of $30, 000 in the event

ol tis wouth by accidental roans whilo ongagod in the

performance of sorvices under this agreement aboard

an aircraft boing tosted as to its airworthiness or

whon the atreraft is operating in a war risk area,

provided death occurs within 90 days of the accident.

d.That in the event the exployee recolves an lajury of

disability while direötly onsaged in the performance

of services under this agreenent, he will be entitled

to medical, sursical, hospitel, transportation and

disability benefits in such amount as in the sole

aiscretion of the employer is proper, PRoVIDED said

benefits shall not exceed a total of $20,000 for the

same injury or disability.

8. Toat the employee agrees to undergo a medical examination

within five calondar days after his return.

9. That the employee pronise he will not rovoal in wilting or

any other. nothod, the activitios, the sponsors, of any other facts

that como to his attention by virtue of the performanco of services

under this agrooment.

SIGNED AND SEALED BY no this _13th day Of November

• 1964.

day of

ACCEPTED at Leopoldville, the Republlo of the Congo, this -

, 1964.

-Seal-

---

## Page 56

CLASSITIEO MISSABE

27

:91 9i0r 17 ovin.

ALPADOUCTION PROMINITID

SECRET

ADVANCE "COP

Her SOD.

VR. ELLE PiP, WHICAS, AFT LUE b, 052, OF 4

5205

SIC RE I 138053Z

PRIORITY LEOP INTO PRIORITY DIR BRUS CITE NAVE 1738

CHAPPIL VITHRUSH SECUR DEARA PeRUMEN

it indian

LORENTZ TOY MIAMI SENDS&

13 MEN GAW 22 199

1 CUSS ARDOIS VITHRUSH PILOT SCHEDULED DEPART NEV YORX

12 NOV VIA SABENA SA8I ARRIVE BRUS IS NOV 895B. DEPART BRUS

IS MOV ZUeS VIA SABENA 5291 ARRIVE LEOP 14 NON 8559. SUBJEGT

POSSESSES PEPRIME MULTIPLE ENTRY PERMIT. CONTRACT EFFECTIVE

!: NOY AND ADVANCED ONE ACNTA SALARY. NO OTRER ADVANCES.

FECEIVED T-6 CHECKOUT.

20 EDUARDO UHITEHOUSE WITHRUSH PILOT SCHEDULED DEPART NEW

YORX SA NOV VIA SABENA S486 ARRIVE BRUS IS NOV 8930. DEPART BRUS

15 NOU 1IOS• VIA SADEMA 319E ARXIVE LEOP 1S NOV 1905..

SUS, POSSESSES

POPRIME MULTIPLE ENTRY PERMIT. CONTRACT EFFECTIVE IS NOV AND

ADVANCED ONE MONTH SALARY: NO OTHER ADVANCES. RAPIDLY QUALIFIED

T-6 AND IRREVOCABLY UNDERSTANDS FUNCTION AS LINE PILOT AND ACET

TYPE ASSIGINENI FROM CHIEF PILOI.

SECRET

ADOUBLE MOTIONS INDICTOR.

90-4/00-1

SECRET

MICROFICTE

13 Niv64

# 1+304614

---

## Page 57

jovazder 12, 1964

I corley I have givon f Ecurio initolouse Si dours and Forty ve

(6:45) minutos of dual instrucion in torth inorican AT-ÓD and I founa bia to be

proficient and safe in this aircrift.

do 1s averigo in coordination ind in sy estiate als potential aoility to fly

taciles is llited.

I reccajed he should be siven tho sore hours in tris aireraft..

Thana

FRA

CFI

Vaso

# 1425396

12 Norti

=201-300614

MICROFIC.S

---

## Page 58

WILLIAMSCOT.IPIPED...a

2506 PONCE DE LEON BLUR

CORALiABLES, FLORIDA

19 Nov. 1964

TELETIONE

Ni: Roberto Medell

P.0. 30x 831

Miani International Airport

iyant, Florida 33148

Re:

WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO j.

Deạr Mir. Nedell,

MI. Whitehouse was examined by me today for

routine Federal Aviation Agericy Class II

physical which he successfully passed and was

issued a medical certificate.

At your request a Chest Xray and hemoglobin

was done.

The Chest Xray was normal and his

henoglobin was 16.2 gms. or 104.8%

Mr. Nitehouse was given the following inject-

1ons: Typhoid-para-typhoid, Typhus, Small-pos,

Cholera and Dipth.-Tet.

Thank you for referring this airman.

Sincerely your

WillianS. Piper, M.D.

WSP: bic

M..=

910164

1201-300616

---

## Page 59

fili.

Eduardo Mite:saso. Insua

Person an la tiger indi

in rice of eingerney:

Brizeida ihitehouse

wife

Fietitin 146 15 39 Stee Mani

Arielrese

Telenhone 134-2396

De-senntinn.nf Bructirlary:

Bricelda initehouse

Relationalin

iife

Tricphone_ FRI2386

11ce nll insurane molicieo:

p. firy

Company Volley do: Couringe Benefirsary

• none

contain

Tar Cirlee"

I're

Hire you completed Last till &

Truranore?

Date 0f ill: Nove 10,1964

copy on tile sen:

Nine and address of person bolding loser a astorney:

D:;:.

liov• 10,1964

sarnature

41080?1052

10NOV64

501-300614

---

## Page 60

14-00000

ád1310

.....

TW.":

Meneast for dosistanco ella cuba: Nallo-als for

di

Tho Special iperations Milaloi aul the sorsear i11810r.

ano litoresto li otraictro the services of the foilonlog intradialo

for esploydent la the Cargo aster irojose dittatol.

Sato ard Ello, Info

Jocusiont Roguired

Ro-ontry ?9ra18

- BastdartA11en

2-21885061

XB8 2 AprI: 1932

POL:

Bagra 91983, Les 91:1e9, Pebe

• 20è - 78: 359

D.

3-512

ñorasos

A-:2490636

mEs 3i Harch 1522

POBL

Bava:us, Cuta

263-761343

Pe-artry Forest

Pos1decE il ar

A-i1241540

iibs il tarob

1926

Four tantlajo, cute

201-30001l

2. Ail baro pId'o.

3. Il is tonu08ra1 that you sale recessary arrangado:ts t!ts tho

! & 1 jervico to facilitato Issunico al ta0 appropriato conare: tazior.

al Chair riass tffico.

4 NOV 64)

901-300614

---

## Page 61

Stonsi

4a thori you for your costlived croperatio.

Sobert i. Last lio

security ütficer

Spedlai iparaticao Mristor

Distrloutlons

Origlial &

C/AB/SOD

SOD/SECUR

201-701389

201-761343

- 201-3006145

- 503/Ab/3:5-3

1 - Sou/RI

SOD/AE/093/310.Lesourewxint

• (le Hovenicer 19611)

i107

RET

---

## Page 62

14-00000

411353

SECRET

951

COONRANCES POE: C8/01

ASTSTIO%

SEBLECT

Sir. George Ball

FBI Praded on 3C1-7E1343 end 301-300618

the-pollocing FBl roperts soro revleced by

Buds office:

s. 1081 - Eldel Captro 1688-16105.

datod 12/11/81

3. Ec-arde vallo alecheuse lacco.

dated. 4/3/66

so dorogatory Molomatlin xas lousE concerning

Tile 1a10:8a8100

tas alten verbally

do it. d. ioralny la your offico, on 2e 0c8 64.

Paul 7. 1018÷0

Spsedal Cocrationa D1018168

Distribution:

Oris. &

4

Addressee

C/AB/son

201 - 761343

201 - 300614

AB/O!'5/3/SOD

-

RI/son

AB/Ors/3/son:D.Lannurer: jJ8. (30 October 1854)

580T-354614

---

## Page 63

Cong.

4al.

LiT

сAi8.

10

50Đ/AB/OP$/3

7357

27 gitaber 199

SLAVE

.1OA DIRECTOR

8000. S0D6

MESSAGE FORM

L61•3C041

§ri Dis T NO 161-244873

POUTING.

28007 61 22

•848

SIG CEN

sile

•

CHAFPIE VITEROSE PERCASA

BET HE EST (11 89075)0

DIR - 60102

"Bo dots on jaracroal:

-0. 830105d:4,fa°14:*

LUCS GENEVER

800/18/083/31il77

He/s/208 Missole..

28 OCT C

DOELEES

YT

B5-C-R-B-T

Tourasnessics

RIPRODUCTION AY OTMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FRONIDITIO:

•201-300614

0509 M

---

## Page 64

SECRET

Capt. Eduardo J. Maltehouse

146 N.B: 39th Stroot

Mians, Plorida

Doar Captain Unitebouges

Than's you for your views and observations contained

1n your lotter of 22 October 1984.

approciatod.

Your interost 1a

Contrary to the infornation on shich you base your;

desire to discuse Cuban mattora,

De advisec that this..

agency is not rendering help to

Cuban organ1zat1on3.=

Thus it 1s bellevod that a discussion of this topic would

not bo of benefit to althor oi us.

Thant you again for your interest.

Harold E. Padgett

Assistant to tbe Director

DDP/WH/SA/MOB/PROP/JBOtt:ems (28 October 1964)

Distribution:

0r1g

& 1 - Addressee

2 - ER

- WH/Registry

1.

TH/SA/ESEC

OPS/3/AB/SOD

#H/SA/MOB/PROP

SOMET

•:::1:18%;

•M :: 1:1

&I CROFICHE

28 OCT64

5701-300614

---

## Page 65

14-00000

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR:

OPS/ 3/AE/SCD - D. LanourOux

201 - 320622

SUBJECT

REFERENCE:

WHTIENCISE Insua, Eduardo J.

Your demorandur, Dated

? Octaber 1964

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted. for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same

authority, on a terporary basis, for theouse.of an individual as

the authority

granted in an Operational Appro-al unless otherwise specified by CI/QA. It is

based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and 1s süb-

Ject to a further final revier when all investigation 1s coupleted.

For use as a pilot under Project ATTHRUSH, as set forth in your request

(form 772) dated 2 October-IIél.-

Please farward PRQ Part II.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRA

Parts I and II) must he submitted as soon as possible and not later than six

(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will folled chen all

investigation

is coupleted and upon the receipt of satisfactor: ThE Parts I

Cancellation must be requested if use ci Sublect ly interested Di-

787 Edward P. Brow

AFPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APFROVAI, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

1. 6 8

125 use

SECRET

C26 October 1964 )iTCPOFICHE

201-300614

---

## Page 66

sand, Flaodeto ?? 1064

Leontina Resistr

K. W/2

Joints the

Di enter

Central

Intellizon-e Arcroy.

washington;

D:

c.

Dear l'r. IcCone:

one of the Cuban. picts survivor of the

Bar of iies ill-fated invasion to

seinral nissiens and taliari

-uito

FIcH

pati the four Amo-

rican flots who died in

the corning

cl April

1ộth 1901

waile flyinr. as

lunteers for our

cause.

ontrary to the echoral cinion trat. the

CiA was to

lace for that fiasco, I wish to

czuress to you ny admirnticr an

pratitude

for the ex ellent instruction received wile

training in crtral Anori a ar

ice threr

-gave-un-their ives for the cause cf De.ocre-

cy.

A wrong and rerret. ile decision by

Aiministration turnid a lositire victery in-

to a sit mortl doicat for the miars and the

United States.

I understrid tunt cortan tian organizations

receiving direct licli

frea tour. Aren'y.

fret to inford you that most er thon are

thy or sich hilt

not so long age, their lea-

dors wire

astro's

followers.

would It the of citunty of discussing this

matton oracually with you for the velfare of both

cur ccunti:

- 0g.

jicase nonet the tosticon ci ny lachost con-

siieration.

Sirccre.!

Crit.

Diner

i. Mitchruse

6. 2. 59%h 3t

Tel. P3-:-2300

20 OCT 64;

001-3041614

---

## Page 67

Mritencuse

79 St

Fla.

FERSCAL

" Th

ABDI

JUSTAIR MAIL

VIA AIR MAIL

To John terene

Dire:tor

etirel

interlicence Arency

to hinptir.,

8088

8889

---

## Page 68

FBI PESULTS

201 - 300614

Refer to data re EDUARDO JLIO ILTTENOUSE INSUA, sent 4/5/60, report dated

12/30/60?

Per Hr. Bludwarth

21 October 1964.

СТД

need dite

4588?

1201- 500614

---

## Page 69

CLASSIFIED HESSAGE

TOTAL

COPI18

SECRET

•2.9

RI

COPY

outan

REPRODUCTION PRONIBITEO

§HOM

ACTION

AOYANCE : COPY.

V245 192

SECRET I521O0Z

MIGOTTY DIR CHE PACY A7A1

HAPPIS WIT-RUSH

150ст 61 93958

REF DIR 56647*

PANO TIRES SUSU RELE CHECKED ALE LOCAL OYOKE SERVICE PLUS C

RANANAN ANESTEROT

2. NO INDEX.

Police

1nd 5od cause co doe

Rote va

SECRET

*RE EDWARD JULIUS CHITEhOUSE INSUR.

201-300614

SECRET

15- OCT :4

201-304614

---

## Page 70

ORG. D. Lamouroux: jJ1

UNIT: AB/OPS/3/50D

,7367

DATE, 13

Oct 1964

TO

PANAMA CITY

том

DIRECTOR

car, S0D-6

MESSAGE FORM +5

5.2 -Г-.

• NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FRE NO.

ROUTING

15

Tucardt 1i 502

SIG CE!

PACY

INFO

CITE DIR

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH

56647

1.

REQUEST FIELD TRACES ON EDWARDO JULIES WAITEHOUSE INSUA; CUBAN,

DPDO A MIR 1918, SANTIAGO, CURA: DIPLOYED BY PALAVE ATRLINES PANAMA,

ON JAN 63 TO JUN 64.

2.

Taraman

LLAISON AUTHORIZED

Crazzas Citi

3.

PLS ADVISE SOONEST.

iKe:

END OF MESSAGE

AB/OPS/3/SOD_Q. Gi

0/1/3/ JaK Jumpe fut

jAntin

DESMOND FITZGERILD

C/WIl

•Racero

BERVARD J.

• FINdS, JR.

C/AB/sod

14 Cer 64,

orest

GRRERIRAILIL SOUSIA

S-E-C-R-E-T

MICROFICHE

Copy Mo

---

## Page 71

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

PARACH/UNIT NOTICICO

REFRODUETION PROHIRITE

All aro

Bravro

TOX UMIT

TIME

BY

Se/OpS VR FILE

• 90c C1: 90082

SECRIT R91.442

LEOP.

DIR CITE

{tOP 3775

CHAPPIY

"ITHRUSH PERUMEN

RFF 8

u!: 51681

29236

NO STATION OR LIA ICON TRACES

C RE

INSul,, CuEnil.

13007.6%

c'°

SECRET

/).

+99-091-977

261300614

---

## Page 72

6'5

SECRET

NON-OFFICIAL COVER

CONCURPENCE

TO HE COPLETIO RY COINS ONLY

C OR 201 No.

DATE OF DINTH

CITIFENSMIS

PLACE OF DIATH

U.S. RESIDENCE

OrCASIAS RESIDENCE

INFLOVEN

PROJECT

1510N 05.

STAFF

CASE OFFICEN

ROOM NO.

CATENSION

an /5/18

CCS-FILE NO

500

Central Cover Staff concurs in your proposal to use subject for the purpose

In keeping ilth the requirement placed upon CCS to maintain an

accurate register of current ronofficinl cover actlvity, you ure specifically

requested to advise CCS/BC promptly by memorandum when

The pseudonys assigned subject should be provided CCS/NC

tise.notificntion.of.actlvation is.fornrded.::If notification of.activation.

1s not received In CCS/MC one year frum above date it will be assuned proposed

lise did not uaterialize.

If check mark appeers here, information of interest concerning subject

or his employer te tr CCS/ne files.*

Arter operatichal approval is received,

snnd-prior.to.paring.urrergegents-fur.1nitial.contact thereunder, you are

specifically

requested to conter with CCS/NC concerning other Agency Irterests"

possibly affected und the advispbility of additional coordination.

1: chock mort. oppears here the proposed use of subject requires DDP

approval under CSI 240-6, para. 5. Please revies CSI 240-6 and initinte

notion ne appropriate.

7 0CT64

1na

2214

SECRET

5901-300611

---

## Page 73

-55

- Foci:

27419

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

OPS/3/AS/SOD - D. Lamoureux

FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA

ist Haward k. Brown

IN ORDER THAT

THAT

YOU FURNISH

FURTHER CONSIDERATIGN

PRO !

TRACES

TRACES

OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

VLTS OF TECHHICAL INTERROCATION

RECOND

91-062

sümm

7 Oct 1964 pro

с по.

201-302614

Dere 1

WHITEHOUSE Laguo, Bauardo J.

INDICATED.

IS REGUESTED

STAFFID DOSSIER

STATT'D COLLATERAL

INFORMATIOM

REPORT AT CI'OR

SEC.

CONCURRENCE MIMO AT CI'OA

OF

REPORT AT CIlOA

REVIEr Or

ATTACHED

REFERENCE

OTMERS (Sea Renarda)

Seit Parma Cit

130ct 64

123669 N20 RENTEN;

SECRET

200T 64.

8801

201-300614

---

## Page 74

A ENT

62233

738

÷ 03

=3R 2934

LEGALE!

FRON DIRECION

CONF, SOD 6

REESCE FORA 32

C'INEX

385-22233

E ELE IN CS BLE NO. 201- 302814

R1

63

10

LEOP

IO AF 4, ODRINISA 8,C:/OPS, UR, FILE

•INFO

CITE DI2

54654

FIQUEST FICED TRICES OI ELJANDO JULIUS LRRIRUCUSE INSUA, CURIT,

D53: 14115 1918, SANTIACO, CUZA. ESPLOYD SY ATUITAS PARULI ANEIS IN

202 LIAIS,O.T AUTZORIZOO

3

fLS AOrISE.

26/6298

ETID

OR 1.50

5 OcT 64)

CROFICKE

MOS.

AS/COrS

2/5LA

5-2-0-a-1-2

APESSOCION SY OTHER ISAN THE ISSUNG SINCES70 201-360 614

---

## Page 75

;.C.

SUBJECT (TIFE SAME iN ROMAN LEI.LRS - SURNAME

•SECRET

UPPLE CASI

WHI TEHOUSE InSUA, ETUardO JUlluS SCe 30CGAL

?. ALIASES, VA?:ANT SPELLING, CIC MUMBERS !

KEQUEST

FOR GREEN LIST

• NAME CHECK N° 156220

2. 0=* 19641

DATE

3.

DATE AND PLACE. OF BIRTH

1L March 1918

Santiago, Cuba

#. CITIZENSHIP

Cutan

5. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND: LOCATIÓN

PuLlic Relations Man

North Shore Villas - 6918 Indian Creek Dr.

Miami beach, Fla.

1 July 1964-present

6.

OCCUPATIONAL §FECIALTIES.

EDUCATION

Pilot

ORIGINATING OFFICER

saMe David C. Lamoureux

OFFICE DESIGNATOR. OPS/ 3/AB/SOD

ROOM, BUILDING

2 D 39

EXTENSION

7367

:3. TYPÈ OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

@ FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

Q. ADDITIONAL DATA

[I RECHECK FOR .CURRENT

1Q: INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

CO ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

22 OPEPATICNAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

PAST. ACTIVITIES

SERVICE.

Pol Cubana Mr

Tratning camps

P11ot - Aorovlas Panama: Airways " Leopoldville.

Pilot - Interocean Arways - Leopoldille SeE

Insurance Salesman (own bualness)

Operations Manager - Pilot, - for Panaven Airlines

Panama

Public Relationg - North Shore Villas - 6918 Indian

Crook Dr.

8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHES MEEDED

Took part 1n

Invasion to Cuba in 1961 as pilot.

- LOCATION'

Bravana, cuba =

Aland, Fla.

Congo

DATES:

Sept 4 43-Jar5

-Jan

1 59 May: 1959

1960-1967

Jan: 63, Sept 61

Sept 6l-Sept 6l

1961-1963

Jar. 1 63-jun 1 64

Miand Bearh, Fla.

jul l 6u-present

9. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT)

1459170099

10.. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

Brizeida Whitehouse

(WEIGHT)

1:160. ÷

(EYES)

Blue

(HAIR)

Blond.

(RACE)

Whi.t.a

(OTHER)

11. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

Father; Marla C. Insua

Edward L. Whitehouse

Mother:

12. INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE

SPECIFICALLY.

NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENISAL TERMS SUCH AS "CEROGATERY" MAY RESULT IN A SEARCH THAT DOES

El 1020

INSTRUCTIONS: SNO BOTA

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT. FORMS COMPLETELY.

SHEETS TO FI/D.

".By 501

SECRET

(GUES):

101-304614

---

## Page 76

- SECRET:

TO:

FROM:

1!!.

Jail Co descareux

12 06.1000

DATE

55

SEE DOSSIER ON SUQJECT IN FI'D GIOGRAPHIC FILES.

A KEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

WITH THE LIMITED IRERTIFICATIDN PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FO!D IS UMABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION. ABOUT THE SUBUECT OR MOT.

TOOL:

FI/D MAS NO PERTINENT IAFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFOSMATION ABOUT THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECONES

AVAILABLE.

THE SÜBJECT.OF THIS REGUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

-an. 5r

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

¡HEN THE SUBJECT IS SO LINGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR CACICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLONIME CANCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETED, SAGULO BE SENT TO FIID..

REVIES YOUR FILE'OF THESE-SHEÉTS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FIO THE-SILETS: FOR, PERSONS THAT ARE MO.

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMIND A CONTINUIMO MIME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S

FACILITIES MITH COMTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFCRNITIDO THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

F1/0

GATE

NAME

OFFICE DESIGIATOR

POOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP

CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 77

172922642

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR IAVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(1l.09a

nardrarty

PLEASE CUNTLETÉ

EACH

SECTIO"

AND. APFPUPRIATE BLANK

TO:!

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND

SUPPORT DIVISION

CHIEF.

CHIEF.

SUBJECT:

(Trus

CRYPTONYM.

PSEUDONYM

ISVESTIGATION ANO SUPEDET DIVISIÓN. DFFICE OF SECURITY

PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

HHITEHOUSE Insua,:

TAT LA ALIASES

citardo Julius

PROVISiONAL

OPERAT 10114

Pp20141

CPERATIONAL

SECUR: TY

APPROVA:

CONTRACT

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Abrica

Pilot

DAig

20-4 1964

FROM: Da 18

C. Lamureux

075/3/A3/SOD

2 D 39

PROJEC WITHUSH

CI/DA FILE MO.

SO FILE NO:

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PRIRQLETARY APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

COVERT

CALL

SPECIAL

IMQuIRY (S0 field inventidasion)

CONTRACT TYPED

0926400423540me

noon co coasta

O. INVESTIGATION AND COVER 1-S SEE

A. U.S, GOVERMMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHONA DURING IMVESTIGATIONI

- YES

NO."

B. CIA INTEREST MAY DE SHOMN DURING ISYESTIGATIONE

IS SUBJECT AMARE OF J.S, COVERAMENT INTEREST IN MINT

IS SUAJECT AMARE OF CIA INTEREST IN MIME.

INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON'COVERAGE IS TRE INVESTICATION OF SUBJECT: -

None

SUGGEST "COVER, PRETEXT" TO BE USED IA CUACUCTING PERSONAL IMVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

YOU PLAN TO MARE SUBJECT DITTING OF MGLUCY OR GOVIRAMENT INTERESSO

INVESTICATION OUTSIDE

CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY.

1X но

PRO I. OR EQUIVALENT. IN 121 COPIES ATTACHED

PRO 11.

OR

EQUIVALENT.

IN tID COPY ATTACHES

¡NO RECORO

FOREMAN

¡NO RECORD.

PAD"AND GREEN LIST STÄTUS

PRO 11

WiLL

BE

TARGARDGO

GREEN. LOST ATTACHED.

NO:

TRACES

ILMOM. DEROGATORY

;.

DIVISION TRACES

7!

NOY-DEROGATORY

WH

TRACES

156219

DCROGATORY ATTACHED

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

NO RECORO

FORBARD

HAVE

ATTAL-ES

SOURCES CHECKED

POSCOMATION ATTACHEO

NOT

ISNTIATED (Explanation)

SIGMATURE OF CASE OFFICER

MICROF ICHE

$367

i-08

772.131.10

SIGARTURE OF BRANCH CHIET

Hereat la Partie 1r

SECRET

20:- 30:614

---

## Page 78

PERSONAL INFORMATION

PHONE

3.53073

HÜMBER

52=2356

Mineir

NUMBER

NINGETY 261-55-2225

MALE

EFEMALE

í.

-

PERMANENT

ARRIESS

SATE OF G:R:N/000.

2_1!-7÷

160

CiTIZEN

OF U.s.A.

4/0c01269

ICOLOR

MAIR

tord

COMPLEXION

¡COLOR

OF

ISSUINO AUTHORITrÜ.S. Dert.üustice

Miari,

Fluo:

PASSPORT NO. A-11-242-51:0

NATURALIZEO:

NATIONALITY:

L264 304.

EDUCATION

Cula

ES MINIGH SCHOOL':

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL

Coast

*iss.

COLLEGE

-Credite,

Büstress So:lege

DUSINESS OR

CORRESPONDERCE

DOL, OTHER WITH

SUBTECTS' OF SPECiAL STUOY

RESEARCH WORK

VICATIONAL

'CUALIFICATIONS

CERTIFICATE.

ETC.

WHAT FOREIGN

YEU SPEAK FLUENTLYI

LANGUAGES DO

MiLITARY

FROM:

SERVICE (ORANCH)

crer

Ita

ian.

Fresca

TYPE OF DISCHARGE:

1202-4

AITIViTiES

TO:

RELIGIOUS

RANK: CE: É.

PREVIOUS

ADURESSES DURING PAST

TEN

YEARS

DATES

FRON

STREET

icad

125 34

=: 55.

SENiE LINELUDE FIANCE ANO PAIOR MARRIAGE

SI - CHiLOREN

MARITAL STATUS

@SINGLE

ZUARA:ES

CENGAGEO

I DINCRCES

_SEPARATES

calarica de locarorrie

DATE OF ISSUE DEC. 31 1963

KINO OF PASSPOÁT

VALIDITY PER:OS

1 rear

Pya5u5s.

DATE!

¡GRADUATE

DEGREES

1233-32 3h ves:

1933-37

Jes

•MAJOR

-SUS.

net: 2ax3

CITY/STATE

REAS. NOS

"RITE FRE

PRESENT MEMSERSHIP IN

: MATIONAL, GUARD OR RESERVES. E

COUNTRY

tc:.

-+*

PRÊSENT ADDRESS

CauC

ICONTIAUEO ON

OTMER SIDEI

CEEURATION

Задаток

23 SERGE

201-30214

---

## Page 79

To it adi

1: 01)

Irai

150622275

asinian and o

on one to Po poorer cousion

poison abies you havo hold ainco you firal to a so maia, inciudina any accino

TERACTITILL CE YOUAMEGTION

TO PRESENT TiME

STAATiMES LEO. -

FINAL

PER YA.

PEA YA.

".%

Period

D. JAILS OF ENPLOYMENT

наом: 1-1-63

80-1-64

harolen Airlines, Brando

Carlos

==Ñ0

ard to su

Crie

JATES OF EMPLOYMEATINONTA

EXACT TITLE OF YOUR POSITION

crocatiors or.

Promote busaness

SALARY IA EARAIDES

STARTING&

700.-

FINAL

5÷.n

PER YA.

PER YR.

ors. "gro and Filot.

EXACT TITLE OF YGUA POSITION

• SALARY OR EARNiÑOS

deline Pilot moa

STARTINGS'

FINAL 35T

22222

PER YA.

cra

-nines

1030.

aroT

24225-

Airline Pilot

Folitical

MAV¿ YOU EVER BEEN JISCHARGEL OR FOACES TO HESIGN FOR MISCONQUCT OR UNSATISFACTONT SERVICE THON ANT POSITIONI

IF ANSNER IS

GIVE FULL

DETAILS:

1O =

YES C

HAVE YCU NON OR EVER MAD ANY PHYSICAL DA MENTAL DEFECTS OR DISAGiLITIES NMATSOEVERY

GiVE FULL DETAI-S:

USEN ARRESTEO OR DETAINED EY ANY PONTEE OR MATROY AUTHORTETE DESO MARE THE DERESSO AUTHORSE

GIVE TIME, PLACE AND REASON FOR SUCH ARREST OR DETENTION, ANO THE DISPOGITION OR COURT ACTION.

10 5

YES D

103 APPLICO FOR:

Filot

MiNIMUM ACCEPTAbLE SALARYS

PER YR.

REFERENCES.

LIST FIVE DERSONS, NOT RELATES TO YOU BY BIDDO CR MARRIAGE, WHO ARE PARTICULARLY CUALIFIES TO SUPPLY

DEFINITE INFORUATIDN REGARDING YOUR CRARACTER AND ABILITY, DO NOT GIVE NAMES GE LUPERVISCGS LISTED AGO'E.

NAvE

ASSREES

col. "ed ri.

"Lowero Sintercare Airdraco Bose. j0i peasades

Pamothy Sorchus

Frost.

Fai.

2,00.09:

- 88---1188015

HonoR. 5-205057

С.

FATMER'S NAME

scci..

Fla.

tia.

Taran Cirtinga

IN CASE OF ENIGGINGY NOTIFY

!F. THE ASQUE SPACE IS NOT SUFFICIENT USE CONTINUATION SHEET.

si ci: ares

60.110.506

se arissien

i Calia

PACHINROCHNATIC.

PRESENT MATIONALITT

PREDIAT OCCUPATION

Anoille Coral

1-20-196.

fed 007(045. 60-0198)

---

## Page 80

.--.

Fros: June

1961

¡iTica.

Ico:.

100t

ir.

ill-iated invasion to uba

in 1961 us pilot.

---

## Page 81

5 Punc si

42

Lagt

WHI TEi!OUSE

Pilot

Met.ronymic

115:1a,

First

E varia lullus

•JON:

301-0 10B0 :

3006 Mitted des

C-NUM 3R:

POA R RUESCOD:

2 Ort 1964

GRECN

LIST REQUE STEE: 2 Oct 1964

RI TR CES

REQUES TSD:

30 Sept 196L

II TR SES

_RETURN 2D :

HPT ND LOCTEY

DIVIS ON TIACES REQSTED: 2 OCT 64. X

DIVISCONST

ACOS

NOD

FICIE TRACES SENCE

CoNgO INiTiaTed ZOCt6Y

LENO

-D CI/ON RE RE TRACES: 272

MEMO LCI OA RE DIE TRICES: 772 W1

AM72:

158

s4nt13+4761

POA G LT2D:

CONTI: ET SIGNED:

2532

angst

MICROFICHE

201-300614

---

## Page 82

57422

Hang and Ron'a:

SUPPLEMENTATY PERSONAL INFORMATION

FLIGHT CREW

trease

(2t.)

General Flying Experienco:

Militory Flying:

Instructed

in

1951

•ü.

So jersoriel sor the invasica to

3. Airlino:

Cuana dirianes

Paravon

Airlires

- C.- For Eost:

::. Equipmers Types and Flying Times

C-4

3.. C-47

C.c: SC:2/C-54=

Antibien. (Sy Type)

•H.

Flyings

-сод. Ву Туре)

11. Helicopier (Sy Tyse)

Cret.

10::

!..

bil.

TOTAL FLYING TIME

Iv.

Tosal In:irument Timo

ficod

cal. Flyinz Time in Past Six Mongos

Tygo

PILOT

• ira mOuRsi

50.:

2450.

302.

CO-PILOT

NOURS)

TITLE

OTHER CREN

BUNCHES

EL

Numbar

Ratin;:

-45460d54

Ix.

44440.0247

C.

Scication of an saalicon: may wall to intiuctiod by ino cypo and amduni of grouné end Gical lcinice

receired.. To assisi in ordivering your aveiali guelifications in is imponent dies you endeavor to submit

accumentery evidenco, in a morough end cessiled manne:, of ali risining recoived during the post siaroo

yeer poriod. (Tais iniormation mey bo suasiad on ino furm of narained secremenis, protasters,

nie you willing to de based ap ony sialien si lio discretion ai shio Compar,?

i undersiend inos misro, iosortation os anission of lacie roguestos is causo iue dismissol:

HUMATUAL

#01-369614

---

