# 104-10185-10030

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10185-10030 •

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO : WKHI

•FM: AMS

RE: ZRRIFLE

3 July 1952

the fide

1.

er our discussion of 2 July 1962, I.expeci

shall proceed to transfér QJWIN to Baden-Baden per the proposal

in OLLA-1463 dared 2 February 1962.

LUXE/0480 dated 19 June

1962 stated that COS would have the full details of the

capital outlay

has not been

required by 23 June; however, the information

of 3 July.

The last cable to the

Station, DIR, 18321 lo1d COS to contact you directly on his

arrival

on 16 July.

With regard to candidates spotted ly OWIN, the

spolled in Ilaly a year and

probably be used if needed, if we can accept the

of them by the Trieste Base

contract agent, Magonelli.

Magonetli's assessment is contained in OIRA,27542 dated

10 May 1961.

The names of the

two French candidates

con-

tained in Ol.lA.1426 dared 15 December 1961. No action has

been taken on these names

regarding tracing or anything else.

My handwritten notes attached lo

that dispatch

fuller descriptions of

the two people than

appear in the

through dant ocher sporting effort that can be made is

Vanfredi: (TN, in Kome. Mank was well briefed

on

the qualifications desired and the security precautions

to be observed

the sporting artivity.

COS Rome has a

copy of the

qualificarions and restrictions in his safe:

rowever. if Nanfredilis told lo proceed

with his contact in

Florence, I suggest that he be re-briefed in detail.

04

Frankly.

all the rest of the paper in the file is

crud

except for

envelope.

I have

e already given tehich ale assembication

which are assembled in one

paper signed by Helms and

Skip has been given the DIWIN con-

tract, including the extension to 1 larch 1963.

5. The details which have you to be worked out

a. The precise

method

of contace with QUiIN

are

b.

The

system

of drawing funds for payments so him

probably de cos

emergency contact for him (this should

LUXE).

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3/3R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

6.

Despite

want

i a more poling in co!

LUXE's viewpoint.

I happen to know that

more spotting in Corsican

circles whenever wé

AMS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

The candidate:

thinning

on top. rosa complexion, no eye color noticed, worker's

hands, nose thin and curved outward a little, thin lips:

chin fúll but not fat, makes impression of a handerker: has

been in prison Sante emice (burglary) - name does not

with A. B.C. D - otherwise would

begin

have gone to Fresne prison; not

known whether convicled: has own car: free to

POW

in Germany: M. impression: good

travel; 5 years

open

usuat

nerves; composed: can

safe: would

to him; H. would use him: willing

work with someone previously unknown

10

use gun: did not ask

money:

Hugo wants his cut.

Lives

250-300 km from Paris:

legal occupation untnown.

out with money.

Contact thru llugo: can cut lugo

passport,

but

This candidate ready any time.

Has no

can get one.

Can

phoney

also get passport under

name.

1. Likes

this one

as

candidate

Saw G

and G's candidate 28 Aprilwith lokal in Paris; G

contacted

lhis candidate directly: candidate lenri

description: circa

full, deep

on

15-48, 1.75 - 1.75: dark brown hair:

right: brown

forehead: shiny and combed back; half part on

heavy eyebrows

complexion; not quile square face; broin eyes:

dark

of nose

depressed, nose somental

brown w/verbindung between eyebrows; bridge

ischrag

when

small: normal cars; mouth

he

scar

speaks: small scars on left cheek and small

hair

running fron

middle of nose on left side: brown

hands. no

fingertips

not

began nell dresser hands well kees:

a drinker:

smokes (riorit) Ami cigarettes:

Ave de

lives Paris: frequents Bar Le Corsaire,

Suffren: can

110

be found

specialist

there every day from 4:30 PM;

in

safes

on iDols: also holdups: in Sance

prison:

gave

belonged

after war to Lyon St. Etienne underworld:

some facts of this which i knows to be true: wanted to

know

if should be armed for job - ready to no lo the end:

has a colleague with whon wants to work; not behing iron

curtair and not in France: would be expensive: has expired

passport, but no spea: in renewing il: " impression

-would

follow orders: belter action man than lugo's candidate, bur

not sure whether has safecraching experience to extent

Hugo's man has; llas car - Dauphine, beige (?)

(Paris :): not married.

724011S75

l can contact him al tel SUF 46-90--

•this is the bar. M lold

told Hugo's nan the sage him sun werls to three months (also

but Gaillord's candidate wants

to know in few weets whether still hope. Could bring both

candidates together into a team.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1) Santelli could ust locate lies concie. Tresto

Marille its title, Alyos Pitastiling.

Fineille.

1) Settli met Patini Je, merel: 14 82-43,

mason AR in Marseille - limean in bitedition,

good chemesting in Girziten bunderall in

Marcelle; At 170-1172, westion hilt, tit

ital it, did a siderio bran

Issumichi compliment nest ha, tizen enge,

jesperse in secting limagine Tf

isshed Aira Bilis Cartioni (:),

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Puntertants complite, whet is sought.

3 Xugo: spindia beer horsers kes in

Tagual, 65T Rue li deprene, Panie

i suit trage ja for call,

candidate 1-31y hour: 7p

The candidate: so inance acid; CA. 43-45,

1.75-1.78, strangly hit, broad alisedera

ca85 biles, slightt, swel fell fare, bloud

hi combed straight hath theirig

in corners, thing as top, rosa.

title, thin lies; chin fall fust ust

fat, Bit wat africa of a

Auster Sto Doese prissa: not Pies instin

---

## Page 6

14-00000

POW intermising, Til impressing sast

au open mind cape, would.

maron namese prestonal, Metrico to

hid mit she noses, 300 km from

Paris;

legal recupation intension,

Coat the is can i the

neak, avis tive Has is precriport, bust

can get me. Can atinget to passport

swer pring name. M. lives tres.

me as candidate.

candidate desertes;

12 45-48, 175-178; dak braunter

full Lip an firelish, shins, conded liart,

date tour/serting destite bogists;

....

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Im. idle.

trimm

rised use depressed, nose. somewhat

mall;worst

a left check I smell sear munity,

from middle of nace on leptoile;

well dressid, Hands sail bet,'

frije, tips vie stig; smalics

tie, fairs; frequents far 1e

Corsairt.; 110 Ase. de Aapron;

Can be stand there long has from

4:30pm; Hit

spectatect in paper-n tarts;

entiste tin tresses

The trote; wanted to tener

in tigell be armed to ta --

read, it so to the end; less a

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Tikny

colleasice i wt

Ihied iro t s ek; 1s

Y rest in inanze;

wsull hcssponasie

rest, lixs

ljfiied pusespeit, hiet no auistin.

renisein, itt, tl ingposes ; sssialld

falloir intera; lutts action iinsn

Thin Bugit Gaudittnte hut sctncre

wvinth les colccradtus enperseueto

eitius fregito suan

deaes, tias car

Ранріліс, виде (;), # 2461H8-38

(Bari,tt) ; nit resinid, Mi.Con

couitect liün et tl : SUF 46-90 -

tlis is tter tar 111 Fald.hiin

swites to 3 was (atsststh,

Hegs's vivin the sawie) but

taliards camiodite uintat

lenoe in lew isiictes entutia

stel lgge. Cased Iiig 154,

crukcates igite.itp a

tiain

:w'"!

aip wemtiineee

er. ai

---

