# 104-10215-10018

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10215-10018

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

R

P

INDEXS.

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

1 D.0 19201=291913

X-REF

FILE MO..

- 201-261813

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

-сссроси

11.

2

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM

: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: SR 6

INDESTED

AND

HATCHED

CONTROL COPIER

INFO: 61, CI/OPS, C1/DA, FI, RI/AN, WH 7, RF 2

R

20 luh.

Y

R

C

P

SECRET 2DDOITZ

DIR CITE MEXI 5444

IN 83496

REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

C/S COMMENT:

#DID NOT DESIRE COLD STREET

APPROACH TO BAKULIN

REF DIR 45798

SPOT

.1o SINCE REF STATION HAS TRIED SPET CANDIDATES FOR

PLAUSIBLE ACCESS VALENT IN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN WHOSE OVERT ACTIVITY

IS PRINCIPALLY THAT OF SUPPLYING PROPAGANDA FILMS TO INTERESTED

LOCAL GROUPS...

2.

SOURCE SEYMOUR D. TRINNICH, POSSIBLE ACCESS ASSET IS ARTURO

CARRILLO ESPARZA DPOS 3 JULY 1948 MEXICO CITY.

CARRILLO IS GRADUATE STUDENT UNAM FACULTY SCIENCES, COMPLETING

DOCTORATE THEORETICAL PHYSICS, IS MEMBER OF COMMITTEE WHICH

OPERATES CINE CLUB, APPEARS SPEAK AUTHORITATIVELY RE FINANCING AND

FILM PROCUREMENT, CLUB HAS GOTTEN FILMS IN. PAST FROM SOVEMB.

GREQUEST HOS TRACES AND INITIATION POA,. HAVE NO LOCAL TRACES.)

3. REQUEST TRACES ALSO ON CARRILLO'S GIRL FRIEND CYNTHIA

CHLEBICKI, U.S. NATIONAL, UNAM MASTER'S DEGREE STUDENT, GRADUATE

OF UNIV ILLINOIS, HOME ADDRESS 11 EAST 151 ST, HARVEY, ILL.

(NO MEXI TRACES. )

4. INDEX.

SECRET

R

R

8.

•

P.

FORM

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED

FROM

RI COPY

GRADING AND DECLASSAFIEA POUN

RI COPY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

(881

Copy No.

---

