# 104-10072-10227

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10072-10227

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLANSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARTEO FOR IMOEXINO

Chief, WH/Cubb:+

tapO

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ORLY QUALIFIED DESA

CAA IVOGE IMDETINO

COS, JMWAVE

Chief, DOD

XX

Chief of Base, New York

ALLANCT

TYPIC/AMCLOCK/1

MICROFILM

Transmittal of Contact Reports for First INe Meetangs Wit

RETINA REQUIRED. RETURENCES

AMCLOCK/1

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3346, et seq.

1. Transmitted herewith are one copy for each

addressee

of the

contact reports prepared by Peter J. DI GERVENO con-

cerning his first two meetings with AMCLOCK,1. Report #1.

New York Memorandum (NYM) - 22.33,

deals with a meeting held

26 September 1967; Report #2, NYM-2234, deals with a meeting

held 27 September.

IDENTITY Sheets for each of the two reports follow

separate cover enclosure to this dispatch.

3.

dispatch.

Contact reports of later meetings will follow by

Howard G. FIGALAN

-

ATTACHMENTS :

l-Contact Reports

stated

para

2-IDENTITY Sheets

as stated

para

h/w

USC

DISTRIBUTION:

2/C/WH/Cuba,

w/atts. #1&?

1-CoS:

• JMWAVE

w/atts.

#1. &

w/o att

as stated

2 as

stated

OODS ATTININCE TO

DISPATCH SAMUOL AND NUMSER

• UNDA-3263

CLASSITIGATION

SECRET/RYBAT

CS COPY

APERTURE

CARD REPRODUCTION,

DATE

13 October 1967

HOS FILE MUMBER

201-009239

9318

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

CONTACT REPORT NO

TO: AMCIOCK/ File

FROM:

Peter DI GERVENO/UMKAVE

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMCLOCK/i.

26 September 196?

REFERENCES: DO BASE/NEW YORK 330

and 3352

DECENSTTIZED

8 October 1967

NYM-2233

DiAtribUtiOn:

*-UnIE A CHIONO DUMMY

I-Unit B Chrono DUMMY

4-ANCLOCK/ I File

(Original

via ELMARD)

Introduction

445

554.

AMCLOCK/l arrived in New York on 19 September 1967. He

had been given instructions

to call a IMMAVE operational number

(Iden A) next time he was out an a friendly country in order to receive

contact instructions.

When he

failed to call soon after his arrival

it WAS decided to try to optabLin viRual contace with him at HASTE (MO

same as was done successfully In 1966. to move hin to call for contact fille

instructions.

For that

PUrPOSE DI GERVENO WaS taken to HTBASTE on

21 September carrying a match folder fromIden Biwith his alias,

(den C;'

and room number.

The plan was to make sure AMCLOCK/l recognized

DI GERVENO, who also met him in 1966, and to pass the match folder

DAviD

to AMADCK/1 only if this could be done securely.

DI GERVENO was

SHERAL

able to make definite visual contact on four different occasions:

Are between &den Dand Iden F

ANCLOCK/1 quickly recognized DI GERVENO

this was not possible andl

the contacts on useptember were limited

to visual recognition only

SECKETANINT

НАДІЙНЇ

UNITED

NAT WAS

1685

Ak a bac

2.

Ducing this time the operational number of the Beekman site

(Iden G) was also manned in case AMCLOCK/1 had

retained this number

and attempted to call DI GERVENO there instead of IMWAVE, but he

failed to call either place for contact instructions.

tense then 68559

decided to attempt to contact the agent again on 26 September at

310 5578

HouSE

HTBASTE.

While attempts were being made to locate AMCLOCK/1

the

case officer surveilled the building where AMCLOCK/1 is staying

(Iden H)

and saw him go in by himself at 1310 houns to leave his briefcase.

At 1330 hours, AMCLOCK/L left the building alone to go for lunch and

DI GERVENO followed him.

AMCLOCK/1 recognized the case officer and

after exchanging safety signals DI GERVENO passed the match folder

o the agent while both were waiting on a crowded street corner for

the red light to change, ät which

time AMCLOCK/1 told DI GERVENO

that he hao no way to contact hin and would see him after lunch.

SECRET

CESENSITIZED

111.=08.

---

## Page 3

14,00000

SECRET

TESTSIZED

-2-

Operational Chronlogy

3= On 20 september AMeLock/I met DI GaRVeNo Erom 1500 to 1830

at (Iden B

AMCLOCK/1 appeared to be in good health and rested and in

high spirits. He was very glad to see II GERVENO again and to be able

to discuss things openly.

He criticized bitterly the living conditions

in PBRUMEN but does not seem to be affected by it or by the fact that

he had to live under a regime he obviously hates.

In fact, he seemed

quite sure of himself and plans to return to PBRUMEN at the end of the

HTBASTE session.

He is scheduled to remain in New York until December

1967 but may return to PBRUMEN before then for a short visit to l00k

after his ailing mother and his wife, who had a baby girl two weeks

prior to his departure.

This may have influenced AMCLOCK/1 not to

think about a possible defection at this time, which came as a surprise

to the case officer who expected the agent to have second thoughts

about return to PBRUMEN where he is not happy.

4. AMCIOCK/l explained that he could not make contact as instructed

because he had destroyed the phone number and both accommodation

addresses we had given him for him to report from inside PBRUMEN. He

destroyed them in the toilet at the airport upon his arrival in PBRUMEN

in late December 1966 after observing a number of uniformed individuals

at the airport which he considered to be suspicious, although they had

nothing to do with AMCLOCK/l.

This may have been a convenient excuse for

his failure to make contact as instructed but DI GERVENO did not press

Instead he was given the operational numbers of the Beekman

site and of the Base in New York (Iden It and told he could always call >496

Miss, on

there if he could not locate DI GERVENO at (den B.)

• He was also given

the IMWAVE number for emergency contact.

AMCIOCK/1 said he tried to

2948

make contact by calling (Iden J'to inquire about MIDDAUGH in true name.

sue after much probing he was told that MIDDAUGH was in Washington and

was given a phone number for him to call direct.

AMCLOCK/1 was planning

to call Washington at a later day if he had not been contacted.

5.

AMCLOCK/1 reported that he has had no security problems and

has not been molested inside of PBRUMEN. He was treated "royally" by

the AMTHUG regime in early 1967 and everybody seemed pleased

to see

him back. Apparently his return surprised some individuals who pri-

vately thought he would defect rather than return to PBRUMEN to live.

During this time he enjoyed special privileges and received frequent

invitationa to official functions wich foreign diplomats.

However,

by mid 1967 the special privileges and invitations were gradually

suspended for no apparent reason.

(For example, he was no longer

allowed to take his private car to a government garage for repairs

and he had

to arrange for themaintenance of his house, which was given

to him and kept up by the government at first). AMCLOCK/1 believes

that this was due to his being under "observation" while going through

a reorientation period after his long stay abroad. There is nothing

to indicate that AMCLOCK/l is not trusted of accepted by other govern-

ment officials. The fact that he was

sent out again initistrong

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

DE SENSITIZED

indication that he enjoys

a

favorable position in the AMTHUG regime.

He hopes that in 1968 he will be assinned to another permanent post

abroad.

6.

In reference to his w. fe AMCLOCK/1 stated that he is now

convinced that she is totally against the AMTHUG regime. After

their matriage in late 1966 he was not sure of her true political

ideology but during the past year he has been able to confirm her

He feels confident that she

would follow him in any movement against the regime,

such

as defection,

ut has not told her

about his work for woraCt.

SCoE

• ALÓCÁSO BILA MIDALEE GAEZ

7. Regarding the trip to New York, AMCLOCK/y/reported that with due

them came Iden k? a known intelligence typer and four other individuals

Later AMCLOCK/1

In answer to

CAMILL

GIARTIA

Anarse

specific questions AMCLOCK/I said that the crate they brought contained

only a vase for Iden P: AMCLOCK/1 is not aware if any weapons or special

iñstructions have been sent to Iden Pin connection with racial dis-

turbances in WOLADY.

The routine instructions given to den Pwere to"*

oppose INHARP actions in HIBASTE whenever possible and to try to bringin

CUBAN

al dabatable masters to biBall, where they have better suppor cert

KNiTED

8. AMCLOCK/I was not seen going in of out of the room and the

NATIONS

meeting was conducted without interruption under most secure condi-

tions, DI GERVENO established immediate rapport with AMCLOCK/1 and

their relations remained most cordial

throughous the meeting. Only

DI GERVENO and AMCLOCK/1 were present.

Flnances

9.

DI GERVENO was careful not to mention

salary payments to

AMCLOCK/1 who is not aware of his salary increase to $1, 000 a month

effective & January 1966.

However,

he requested $500 to buy books

and baby items for his daughter.

DI GERVENO told him that he would

bring hin the money in their next meeting. All payments to AMCLOCK/1

will be T/A'd to INWAVE together with the agent's signed receipts.

Intelligence Production

10. Although most of the meeting was

used to discuss operational

matters,

AMCLOCK/i reported

disseminable information on the following

requirements given in DIRECTOR 37960.

a .

Present as itude of ine PBRUMEN government towards the

United States:

expectation of a military attack on

PBRUMEN supported by the United States: formal military

training seing given to ald PaRUMen aImy orticals

(DO BASE/NEN YORK 3382)

S

OESENSITIZED

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Sarippity

SECRETESENSITIES

MARICAN

b.

C .

di .

dedicatiss

PBRUMEN views regarding

lIdens

10;

landi ¿ (DO BASE/NET YORK 3390)

Replacement of PBRUMEN Ambassador to

the USSR and PBRUMEN

views regarding the soviet Ambassador to PBRUMEN

(DO BASE, NEW YORK 3392) .

Main objectives of the Foregn Policy of the AnTHoG

regime (being disseminated!.

Future Plans

11. The next meeting was scheduled for che

folioning day:

27 Septembei,

for lunch

the Beekman

sate.

SECR

ET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

lira

SECRET

Identities to NYM-2233

Iden A - 445-5547

Iden B - Commodore Hotel, RoOm 1263

• Iden C - David Cordova

Iden D - General Assembly of the United Nations

Iden E - Delegates Lounge, United Nations

Iden F - Secretariat building of the United Nations

Iden G- 688-4683

Iden H - Embassy House, 310 East 47th Street)

Iden 1 - 986-2948

Iden J - U.S. Mission to the United Nations

Iden K - AlbertoB

BOZA Hidalgo-Gato i!

Iden I - Joaquin Camilo GARCIA ALOnSo?

Iden M - Gonzalo DIAZ Diaz

Iden N - Rogelio "RoDRIUnz Lope

Iden O - "Papo", a courier to the Cuban Mission to the

United Nations

Iden P - Cubon Mission to the United Nationa

Iden Q - Afro-Asian- Latin American

Peoples Solidarity

Organization • AALAPSO

Iden R - Latin American Solidarity Organization - LASO

. .

,-+ 1 8 1961

SECRET

CS COPY

DESENCITIZED

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

DEED

Identities to UNDA 2234

Iden

A - United Nations, Committee II

Iden B

- Jesus JIMENEZ Escobar (201-749244)

:..

Iden D'= JARRANDEZ COStÍo/Director of international

Organisms in the Foreign Ministry

Iden E - Américo CRUZ, 'Cuban Ambassador to Canada

Iden F - Bank of Foreign Commerce

Iden © - Fernando*ALVAREZ Tabio

•Foreign Relationg Committee of the Central

Committee of the Cuban Communiat Party

ROSALES (201-335336)

Iden J - Antonio CARRILIO (201-349956)

Iden k - Gabriel M

MOLINA (201-817838)

SECRET

CE SENSITIZED

SOUURE

_ CARD

HEPRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 8

14-00000

tinal 9757767 Jo

SAC R45

DESE SITIZED

CONTACT REPORT NO. 2

TO: AMCLOCK/1 File

FROM: Peter J. DI GERVENO/JMWAVE

SUBJECT:

Meeting with AMCLOCK/1,

27 September 1967

REFS: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3362 and 3359:

DIRECTOR 37254 and 37960

9 October 1967

NYM-2234

Distribution:

1-Unit A Chrono DUMMY

1-Unit B Chrono DUMMY

4-AMCLOCK/ 1 File

(Original via ELMARD)

CommianEt

KAnk

Operational Chronology

On 27 September 1967 AMCLOCK/1 met DI GERVENO from 1130 to

1530

for lunch. at the Becknan site.

The agent was not seen

entering

or leaving the site and he stayed out of sight when food was brought

up from the restaurant downstairs. The meeting was conducted under

secure conditions and without interruptions. Only AMCLOCK/1 and

DI GERVENO were present at the meatre Escoria (1201-7495441

McLocK/? Feported that he had been assigned to work in

Iden Awith (Iden Bi same as last year. A few days before his departure

from PBRUMEN, Iden C told AMCLOCK/1 to watch out for (Iden B who is a

member of the intelligence service and will be reporting on AMCLOCK/1.

OR The implication was. that AMCLOCK/1 was

still under observation by the

AMTHUG regime and (Iden C'actually told him

to bend backwards in every

way possible to prove himself while in New York. AMCLOCK/1 explained

that this meant to live

a model life while abroad and to perform extra

work whenever required, without complaining. AMCLOCK/1 believes that

Iden B is being trained to take over AMCLOCK/l's position as an expert

in economics for the AMTHUG regime. If this is the case, this may be

the last time AMCLOCK/1 is sent to (Iden A Still, under much probing,

AMCLOCK/I could not come out with any clear indication that he was

suspected or was

falling out of grace with the AMTHUG regime. Although

the agent has a tendency to emphasize his "delicate" position, the

case officer believes that he is not mistrusted and still enjoys a

favorable position in the government

although probably considered too

bourgeois to be completely integrated with their communist philosophy.

3.

Regarding the recent changes made in PBRUMEN diplomatic

personnel abroad, AMCLOCK/1 was not aware of any security shake up

taking place in the Foreign Ministry.

He regarded these changes

as a coutine naster in accordance with their policy to bring back

reorientation tour all those diplomats stationed

abroad for three

consecutive years of more.

AMCLOCK/1 actually

SECRET

GESENSITIZED

SNOLO

---

## Page 9

14-00000

• 1.

SECR

E T

-2-

OESENSITELO

appeared not to be aware of any major purge and not to be concerned

about it. However, if this is true the chances for AMCLock/l to be

reassigned abroad in the near

future appear doubtful at this time.

When DI GERVENO asked AMCLOCK/1 about his work and how the

recent changes may affect him, the agent then reported the following

information about his position in the Foreign Ministry. After his

return in late December 1966 he was given four months vacation, during

which time he went by the ministry trom time to time but had no job

assigned to him. He used most of this time for a honeymoon and to

relocate in his new home furnished by the PBRUMEN government.

SREAng of 1967 (Iden Ciconsidered him actively as a substitute for

feden D'whom Iden & does not like. However, the job did not materialize

Costs, taccepted byliden Elwhom (Iden C'was going to send as Ambassador to

because (Iden C'S plans to send Iden D' as Ambassador to Canada were not

switzerland.

At that time AMCLOCK/1 was also

Orchide in Iden Ewhich was the position the PBRUMEN president

considered for a position

suRt take,) but smcrock/1 avoided the position although it implied frequent e

Mitt

travels abroad.

The reason AMCLOCK/1 gave for not taking the position:

at iden Ewas that he did not want to break away from his diplomatican

career and felt he would be better protected among his friends in thee

Foreign Ministry.

Consequently, after his vacation AMCLaCK/I want

BANd of

back to work in the Foreign Ministry but without any specific duties.

He is actually doing odd jobs for Iden C,: Like economic studies.

COMMERE Mid 1967 AMCLOCK/I and(Iden G)were proposed byliden Eund ccepted dy

(Iden Das members of/a four-man committee (the other two members have

not been selected yet) which is to be created in the foreign Miniatry

to make specific area studies and recommendationa to dion it, sinca

FERNANDE

ALVAREZ.

both AMCLOCK/1 and Eden & have been assigned to the HiTBASTE annaion.

it is concluded that the creation of said "Advisory Committee"

contemplated until early 1960.

Accoiding to AMCLOCK /l the croation

ТАвії

of this

"Advisory Committee" has beer discussed at the highest lovele

only and it may have some influence in the policy making decision

ReLe dden Hi which to the tair body that dictates present PariM

Nforeign policy.

5.

It may be well to record here that we should tame it a rain

of salt the selection of AMCLOCK/l tO

such a Bengative yource ot

information as an "Advisory Committee" to Iden #would be.

may be trying to build up his importance to us. it is of intoroat

note that in the past year that AMCLOCK/l has been residing inside

PBRUMEN he has made no clear effort to obtain and develop new sources

of information and to bring out with him intelligence of particular

interest to us. For example, he has no information on the apocate

requirements we gave him in 1966 prior to his retuin to pBrumeli and

asked to identify his main sources of information he said ir.ey

his contacts in the foreign Ministly and ident I di and vie

MAiD

ROSALE

SECRET

5356,

CARRILLE

517355)

11201-

ANiTArit

(261-344457)

1211-

---

## Page 10

14-00000

•8..

SECRET

DESENS!..2

43-

are old friends of AMCLUCK/1. (Iden K)is also a cousin of AMCLOCK/1'g

wife.

(AMCIOCK/1 is a difficult individual to debrief on hard

intelligence.)

6.

Regarding internal

security in the PBRUMEN mission in

New York, AMCLOCK/l reported that the entire third floor of the

mission is used only by members of the intelligence seruice...

Not

even the Ambassador is allowed in that area.

Besides Iden B,

AMCLOCK/l correctly identified the known members of the intelligence

service permanently assigned to the PBRUMEN mission.

Finances

7. AMCLOCK/1 was given $500 he requested from his escrow

account and signed a receipt for this amount, which will be t/A'd

to JMWAVE.

During the meeting AMCLOCK/1 was debriefed on the following

information which was disseminated as

indicated:

a. Changes of PBRUMEN diplomats abroad; expected internal

reorganization in the PBRUMEN Foreign Ministry (DO BASE/

NEW XORK 33731

b.

Advisory Committee on PBRUMEN Foreign POliCy (DO BASE/

NEW YORK 3376)

c. Informal message sent to PBRUMEN Prime

Minister DY

Mexican President (D0 BASE/NEW YORK

3375)

d. Appointment of PBRUMEN Ambassador to

the Congo

(Brazzavilie) (DO BASE/NEW

YORK. 3374)

Future Plan:

9. Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for 29 September

between 1300 and 1400 hours.

with

the assayinent of ANCLOCk/i to

Iden A)his free time will be more restricted from now an for future

meetings.

Fiowever, the agent agreed

to contact DI GERVENO, as often

as possible.

GARD

AB

"NSITIZED

SECR

E

T

---

