# 104-10326-10014 (c06931192)

## Page 1

104-10326-10014)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 01/04/00

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10326-10014

RECORD SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

PROJECT FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : WITHHELD

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE : WITHHELD

DATE: 02/25/98

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASS.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

•CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/03/99

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK-M-11: F1 1999.02.03. 11:31:38: 873120: CIA

CORRESPONDENCE RE

ARRB

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

-

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 64937 Docld:32403863 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MHENO: 98-0651289

/ 1

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE:

FRP:

STAFF

ACTION: NE/NAOE (273) INFO: AF/EXO, AF/HG, C/NE/NAO, CIC/AF, CIC/ CEG,

CIC/CEGAF, CIC/OG, CIC/ PRC,

LIMITED, MDSX,

NE/NAOCI, NE/NAORE, NEDORECORD,

ODPD, ORMS/AF, RYBAI, FILE, AF/OPS (3/W)

98

0651289

ASR

PAGE

001

TOR: 251439Z

FEB

98

IN 0651289

ADDI 22385

SECRET 251436Z FEB

98 STAFF

CITE ADDIS ABABA 22385

TO: DIRECTOR, CAIRO.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM NE/NAOE INFO NE/NAORE, NE/NAOCI, AF/HG, AF/OPS,

CIC/AF

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT FCSTANDARD

SUBJECT: SUMMARY OF RECENT CONTACTS WITH FCSTANDARD/ 32

REF: A. DIRECTOR 699262

98 0626779

B. CAIRO 85035

98 0176920

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLS SEE PARA 2.

2. REF A WAS USEFUL AND MUCH APPRECIATED. WITH CAIRO STATION'S

CONCURRENCE, C/O TONY P. RAGL WOULD LIKE REF A OFFER OF BACKGROUND

INFO ON SUDAN, AND HQS TALKING POINTS ON OTHER TOPICS TO SUPPORT

C/O WILL PROVIDE ASSESSMENT OF FCSTANDARD/ 32

DEVELOPMENI OF SUBJ C/O AND SUBJ HAVE BEGUN DISCUSSING SUDAN AND

(SUBJ) SEPARATELY.

LIBYA, AND SUBJ HAS BEGUN VISITING C/O'S RESIDENCE (REPORTED

PLS ENSURE REF B IS FILED IN SUBJ'S FILE (IT WAS

NADVERTENTLY FILED AS FCSTANDARD/ 1) .

3.

12 FEBRUARY: SUBJ PHONED C/O AT HOME AND, WITHOUT

MENTIONING NAMES OR PLACES, RECOMMENDED A MEETING.

C/O MET SUBJ FROM

2330-0200 HOURS AT CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB.

SUBJ WAS NOT SURE IF A SAUDI

INTEL OFFICER WAS POSTED TO ADDIS. SUBJ ASKED IF C/O LEARNED

ANYTHING ABOUT A VISITING RUSSIAN

DELEGATION (C/O HAD NOT,

SEE PARA

5) .

SUBJ SPOKE OF JOGGING ON LOCAL STREETS AND C/O GAVE HIM A CAN OF

PEPPER SPRAY TO WARD OFF STRAY DOGS.

4. 16 FEBRUARY: U.S. EMBASSY RECEPTION: C/O INVITED SUBJ TO

U.S. EMBASSY'S NATIONAL DAY RECEPTION (MOVED FROM 4 JULY TO 16 FEB

DUE TO HEAVY LOCAL RAINS IN JULY). SUBJ POINTED OUT ISRAELI SECOND

SECRETARY RAMI ( (HATAN) ), ADDING HATAN HAD RECENTLY ARRIVED IN ADDIS

AND SUBJ THOUGHT HATAN WAS SHIN BET AND WORKED, WITH ISRAELI SECOND

SECRETARY ELIEZER "ELI" ( (YITZHAKY) ) .

5. 19 FEBRUARY: SUBJ PHONED C/O AT EMBASSY, SUGGESTED MEETING

SECRET

NW 64937 Docld:32403863 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MHENO: 98-0651289

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE :

AT CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB (0030-0330) -

SUBJ PAID FOR DRINKS. HIS SPOUSE

MAY RETURN TO ADDIS CIRCA EARLY MAY.

SUBJ SAID HE WAS DISTANCING

HIMSELF FROM EGYPTIAN BUSINESSMAN SAFAH (PHONETIC) AND ADDED, "BEFORE

I LEAVE ADDIS, I HAVE A LOT TO TELL YOU.

I'LL TELL YOU WHEN THE

STORY IS FINISHED. A LOT GOES ON HERE. "

SUBJ MENTIONED ISRAELI

TRADE FAIR AT SHERATON HOTEL 25-26 FEBRUARY (THE EGYPTIAN ECONOMIC

COUNSELOR WAS INVITED) .

REGARDING RAMI HATAN,

SUBJ SAID HE WAS AWARE:

HATAN WAS SINGLE, LIVED IN BOLE AREA, WAS A FIRST TOUR OFFICER.

RUSSIAN DELEGATION (PARA 3) WAS HERE FOR ETHIOPIAN TANK (T-55)

REFURBISHMENT; RECENT ISRAELI DELEGATION WAS HERE TO BID ON T-55 AND

AIRCRAFT REFURBISHMENT (CORROBORATED BY 2/00/1607-98, 191934Z FEB 98;

AND 2/00/1584-98, 191609Z FEB 98). SIX OROMO OPPOSITIONISTS WERE

EXTRADITED FROM DJIBOUTI TO ETHIOPIA.

FOREIGN MINISTER MOUSSA IS

VISITING ADDIS WEEK OF 23 FEBRUARY;

HE IS A WOMANIZER AND MAY VISIT

CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB. HE HAS THREE BODYGUARDS,

"PROFESSIONALS."

SUBJ PAID EQUIVALENT US$ 60 TO BLOOD TEST LOCAL

GIRLFRIEND HELEN, "SHE'S ALL RIGHT. "

REGARDING SALARY, SUBJ IS PAID

"PRETTY WELL" AND WORKS HARD TO "EARN THE PAY."

UPON PARTING, SUBJ

"SLEEP WELL, I WON'T SAY HAVE NICE DREAMS BECAUSE WE (I.E.,

INTEL OFFICERS) DO NOT HAVE NICE DREAMS. "

6. 20 FEBRUARY: LATE DINNER WITH SUBJ AT LION CLUB, THEN

CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB.

TWO BUSINESSMEN (A SAUDI NAMED SALAH LNU WHO

DEPARTS ADDIS WEEK 23 FEBRUARY, AND A JORDANIAN NAMED MAHMOUD LINU,

BOTH CONCORDE REGULARS) JOINED SUBJ AND C/O.

BUSINESSMEN SPOKE OF

EXPORTING ETHIOPIAN CATTLE TO SAUDI ARABIA, ALSO SPOKE OF HORSES AND

CAMELS -

SUBJ'S EMBASSY OFFICE IS BEING REMODELED BY AN ETHIOPIAN

INTERIOR DESIGNER, A SUBORDINATE WATCHES THE DESIGNER AT ALL TIMES.

SUBJ WILL HAVE C/O OVER TO THE OFFICE ONCE IT IS FINISHED. SUBJ WILL

BE BUSY WEEK OF 23 FEBRUARY DUE TO VISIT OF MOUSSA.

C/0 VISITED SUBJ'S HOME AND OFFICE (WHICH WAS

BEING PAINTED; HAD ONLY CHAIRS AND A BOOKCASE;

EGYPTIAN, SUPERVISED ETHIOPIAN PAINTER) .

IN SUBJ'S LIVING ROOM WERE

MEMENTOS FROM THE U.S. MARINE CORPS BALL (AMERICAN FLAG PLACE

SETTINGS, CHAMPAGNE FLUTES).

FCSTANDARD CHIEFS POSTED ABROAD HAVE

USE OF A GOVERNMENT VEHICLE, AS DOES SUBJ.

C/O APOLOGIZED FOR NOT

PHONING, SUBJ REPLIED C/O COULD CALL AT HIS HOME ANYTIME,

UNANNOUNCED. HE UNDERSTOOD C/O'S AVERSION TO PHONES, AND ADDED

ETHIOPIANS TAP DIPLOMATS' OFFICE AND HOME PHONES.

CONVERSATION WITH C/O,

SUBJ TURNED ON TAPE PLAYER FOR SOUND MASKING

AND EXPLAINED HIS HOME HAD NOT YET BEEN TESTED FOR BUGS ( A SIMPLE

TEST IS TURN OFF ALL APPLIANCES AND CHECK ELECTRIC METER; THERE IS

ALSO A MORE SOPHISTICATED TEST) .

SUBJ PHONED SPOUSE IN

CAIRO AND HAD

C/O SPEAK WITH HER.

SUBJ GAVE C/O TWO SMALI GIFTS (MARBLE HEAD OF

NEFERTITI AND PAPYRUS PAPER PAINTING) . SUBJ'S BROTHER-IN-LAW (A

POLICE MAJOR) IS NO GOOD, HE ASKS HIS

FATHER-IN-LAW FOR MONEY.

ATTACHE WADIE A. AL- ((THAGAFI)) MAY BE

THE SAUDI INTEL OFFICER IN

ADDIS, BUT SUBJ IS NOT YET SURE. ISRAEL IS NO GOOD; ISRAEL WAS

*BEHIND THE<JFK ASSASSINATION. > SUBJ CHEATED ON HIS WIFE ONLY THREE

TIMES (ALL IN ADDIS IN THE LAST EIGHT MONTHS; HE FEELS GUILTY BUT

REMAINS FOND OF HIS LOCAL GIRLFRIEND HELEN, WHOM HE DOES NOT BRING

HOME FOR FEAR HIS HOUSEHOLD HELP WOULD TELL HIS SPOUSE). OWNER OF

CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB SMUGGLES MERCURY (NFI); HAS GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG

ISRAELIS AND ETHIOPIAN GOVERNMENT.

2

NW 64937 Docld:32403863 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MHENO: 98-0651289

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

22 FEBRUARY:

A LENGTHY,

SUBSTANTIVE CONTACT AT C/O'S

RESIDENCE WHICH WILL BE REPORTED

SEPARATELY.

FILE: FCSTANDARD/32; 027-009-095. CL BY: 2195330. CL

REASON: 1.5.(C) .. DECL ON: X1. DRV HUM 4-82 .

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE:

SECRET

NW 64937 Docld:32403863 Page 4

---

