# 104-10065-10152

## Page 1

1104-10065-10152,

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN E KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

This notice expires. 28 September 1971.

DDO NOTICE

NO. 1-1462

DON 1-1462

ORGANIZATION

29 September 1976

REORGANIZATION OF THE STAFF STRUCTURE

OF THE OPERATIONS DIRECTORATE

1. PURPOSE

This notice announces the reorganization of the Operations

Directorate staff structure, effective 1 October 1976, ano

utlines the functions of the new and the redesignated

staff components.

The new staff organization supersedes

that established by the Deputy Director for Operations (DDO)

on 28 June 1973 and as modified in the interim period. It

is the first step of a three-phase, long range reorgani-

zation program designed to enable the Directorate to conform

to the perceptions of the Executive and the Congress as to

the Directorate's role, to adjust flexibly to changing

strategies and priorities, and to make most efficient use of

personnel and material resources allocated to accomplish the

Directorate's mission.

2.

GENERAL

The Headquarters organization of the Operations Directorate

is comprised of the Office of the DDO and its special staffs,

the Senior Staffs, and the Area and Functional operating

Divisions.

(See Figure 1, attached.)

3.

OFFICE OF THE DDO

The following staff elements are attached to the Office of

the DDO, and report directly to him and/or the Associate

Deputy

• Director for Operations (ADDO).

a.

Assistant Deputy Director for Operations for

Development (ADDO/D) (When approved by DDCI)

The ADDO/D will direct and supervise the establish-

ment of a Clandestine Corps responsible for the

nonofficial

E-2 IMPDET

05990

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

• .

DDO NOTICE

NO. 1-1462

DON 1-1462

ORGANIZATION

29 September 1976

b. Associate General Counsel to the DDO (AGC/DDO)

The AGC/DDO is detailed by the Agency's General

Course to provide atrice and as wotance to tre

He will work directly

with the ADDO.

c. Evaluation and Program Design Staff (EPDS)

The EPDS will

(1) Design and maintain continuous data on funds,

positions, personnel on duty and other such

nanagement information as is required by the

DDO and the Comptroller of the Agency.

(2) Maintain continuous knowledge of the state

or condition of operational activities and

achievements, and support activities planned

and in progress, including resources used,

efforts undertaken, and results.

(3) Prepare periodic evaluations of component

programs against objectives including the

of past results

(4) Monitor all data collection for purposes of

identifying statistical evidence of problems,

identifying areas requiring management attention

by the DDO, and providing data to be used for

internal and external presentations.

(5)

Review all Operational Activity (OP ACT) approvals

to ensure compliance with Agency and Directorate

regulations, and prepare staff recommendations

on Operational Activities which require DDO

approval or attention.

(6) Provide staff assistance to the DDO on Directorate,

Agency, Community and Government data requirements,

techniques and regulations pertaining thereto.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

DDO NOTICE

NO. 1-1462

DON 1-1462

ORGANIZATION

29 September 1976

(7) Undertake special studies as directed of manage-

ment issues which affect the efficiency or

effectiveness of Directorate activities.

(8)

Provide staff assistance to the DDO on Directorate,

Agency, Community and Government evaluation

requirements, techniques, and regulations pertinent

thereto.

(9)

Continue to develop production and evaluation

techniques and values.

d. Policy and Coordination Staff (PCS)

The mission of the Policy and Coordination Staff is to

serve as the focal point through which the DDO directs

and controls certain activities of the Directorate

crossing geographic divisional boundaries.

It also will

assist in formulating and recommending to the DDO policy

and doctrine on matters with overall applicability to

the Directorate.

The Chief of this Staff will act for

the DDO and the ADDO if these officers are unavailable.

The responsibilities of this staff will include all

intelligence-related matters including staff guidance

on scientific and technical matters and such activities

as crisis management, international terrorism, narcotics,

technical operations, and defector operations.

Addition-

ally, the Staff is the focal point for Directorate coor-

dination with the Intelligence Community Staff, the

National Intelligence Officers, other components of the

Agency, as well as with other agencies of the Government.

The Staff will also be responsible for conducting and

monitoring liaison with the principal elements of the

Intelligence Community. It will be responsible for

ensuring that the operations and activities of the

Directorate are in compliance with existing regulations

and procedures, and for formulation or revision of

regulations and procedures as may be required.

In

short, this Staff will coordinate the paper flow of the

Deputy Director for Operations and in so doing serve as

the Staffs and Divisions to the Office of the DDO. This

Staff also will provide policy focus to issues of common

concern affecting Directorate-wide activities.

It will

also provide the support facilities for the DDO's

special and Senior Staffs.

3

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

DDO NOTICE

NO. 1-1462

DON 1-1462

ORGANIZATION

29 September 1976

e. Senior Review Officers (SRO)

The responsibilities of the Senior Review Officers

are described in DOI 5-14.

I. Special Assistant for External Oversight (SA/DO/0)

The responsibilities of the SA/DO/0 are described in

DON 1-1429.

g. DDO Duty Office (DDODO) (Not shown on Figure 1)

The responsibilities of the DDODO are described in

DOI 5-3.

4. SENIOR STAFFS

a. Career Management Staff (CMS)

The Career Management Staff will be responsible for

matters related to orgenization, manpower planning,

personnel management and administration, and training.

It will provide staff direction and supervision to

personnel management and administration throughout

the Directorate, and is responsible for ensuring

compliance with related Agency and DDO directives and

procedures as well as applicable Government rules and

regulations.

b. Central Cover Staff (CCS)

The mission and functions of the Central Cover Staff

remain as prescribed in DOI 1-21 for the former Cover

and Commercial Staff.

c.

Covert Action Staff (CAS)

The Covert Action Staff will provide policy

coordination, guidance and support for Directorate

covert action operations. It will be the office

4

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

DDO NOTICE

NO. 1-1462

DON 1-1462

ORGANIZATION

29 September 1976

(a)

issuance of propaganda guidances and related

background;

(b) production of tailored, non-attributable

media and other background materials in

support of authorized covert action operations;

(c)

advice, guidance and operational support in

the fields of black propaganda and deception

operations; and

(a)

support to and participation in Agency covert

action training programs.

(2)

d.

representation in the Washington Liaison Group);

and all-source intelligence, special operations

research and graphics support to 50G.

Counterintelligence Staff (CIS)

The responsibilities of the Counterintelligence Staff

remain as set forth in DON 1-1339, with the exception

See alsc

e .

Information Services Staff (ISS)

(1)

(2)

(3)

Manage the Operations Directorate's records and

information control system.

Maintain the foreign counterintelligence index

for the United States Government.

Oversee Directorate compliance with laws, orders,

and regulations regarding recordkeeping.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

:

DO NOTICE

NO. 1-1462

DON 1-1462

ORGANIZATION

29 September 1976

(4)

Provide career development services and training

for records management, computer and micrographics

specialists assigned to the Directorate.

(5)

Serve as the Directorate focal point for Privacy

Act and Freedom of Information Act matters, and

other litigation involving Directorate information,

and handle and coordinate all Privacy Act and FOIl

requests addressed to the Operations Directorate

f. International Activities Staff (IAS)

The International Activities Staff will be responsible

(1) Monitoring the activities of and developing

operations into the permanent staffs of world-

wide organizations, including

(a) the United Nations and its specialized

agencies;

(b) the international staff of Communist

parties;

(c)

foreign labor organizations that are

international in scope;

(a) Treaty organizations, such as NATO and

the EC;

(e) foreign multilateral trade organizations

and foreign-owned companies; and

(f) commercial organizations with truly

international status, such as foreign-

owned banks, tourism and sports.

(2) Coordination of CIA relationships with the Israelf

"liaison services, including provision of headquarters

guidance and support to the Tel Aviv Station.

(3)

Provision of staff guidance for and coordination of

Directorate operational efforts in the fields of

international economics and energy.

6

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

:

DDO NOTICE

NO. 1-1462

DON 1-1462

ORGANIZATION

29 September 1976

(4)

Developing specific scientific and technical

operations;

Provision of staff guidance for and coordination

of Directorate efforts against international

Communism and the development of specific opera-

tions in this field.

Monitoring the activities of certain foreign

intelligence organizations outside their national

oundaries, in close coordination with the Covert

Iction and Counterintelligence Staffs.

5. OPERATING DIVISIONS

The Area and Functional Divisions will continue as depicted

in Figure 1, attached.

William W. Wells

Deputy Director for Operations

7

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

735505227

Evaluation & Program

Design Staff C

STAFFS

Career

anagement

Covert Action

Information

Services

Central Covers

Counterintelligence

international

Activities

DDO

ADDO

AGC/DDO

ADDO/Development-

Clandestine Corps

Senior. Rev

DIVISIONS

Policy &

Coordination Sta

SECRET

East-Asia,

Europe

Latin America:

•Foreign Resou

AREA

Near East & Soith.

Asia

Africa

•Soviet/East:

European

FUNCTIONAL

233-0

Domestic Collection

Division

Division D

Figure 1

29 September 1976

DON 1-1462

---

