# 104-10178-10002

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10178-10002

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE: SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STIFF MEMBERS

iKSCARLET/3

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

FISADA

LUIS MENTE

90 1 - 900985

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROOM:

MIED AGENCY DICUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

6/16/81

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) " SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

PMON

Luis Clemente POSADA Carriles

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

201-500

785

---

## Page 2

4-00000

STATE DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS

RATS: 25 AUCUST 1977

FROM AMBASSY CLRACAS (CARACAS 8438)

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDANTIAL

SUBJECT: GOV CHARISS "CUBANA AIRLINER: DETANDAYTS WITH MILTIARY CRIMES

FION AMENBASSY CARACAS

MENORANDUM OF CONVSRSATION

DATE: 9 MARCH 1977

SURTSCI: ORLANDO FOSCH AND THE LETELIER ASSASSIXATION

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL/NOFORN

---

## Page 3

4.00000

FBI DOCUMENT

CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 8 JUNE 1977

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT:

SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA; ESPIONAGE - CUBA - PANAMA

FBI FILE NO:

NONE GIVEN

---

## Page 4

400000

FBI Document

SUBJDCT: CCORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA (ANTI-CASTRO) •

No File Number

4=. ..

---

## Page 5

14-00000

State Department Cable

22 January 1977

Classification:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

CHARGE THAT POSADA IMPLICATED IN CIA PLOT TO KILL

CASTRO PUBLISHED

, CARACAS 0680

---

## Page 6

SECRET

THE

FOLLINING I UFT NATIOR CURCEFAING,

THIS 201

107851871195

MIAN EXTEACTED FEIM

AVITHIP OFFICIAL

DO TILE.

PERSINS

PEAFMRUINT IOME THACHS

ADE CAUTTINFO THAT

MENT FaDi

MACHTHIS EXTRACT HAS PREPRELD COMAT..ONG OICU-

ADJITIONAL

INFIOMATION DERTATVIIG TO THE SUJECT AND SHIVILD BE ARQUESTED

FROM IUAFILESO.

rOSADA CArPILESALUIS

201-0300995

SEX

022-000-028

6161-00445176

23 DEC 76

P4

SUMMARY TE INFO TO FRI AND ARMŸ

INTELL-TEURORIST PLETTING BY CURAN EXILFS.

DATE. 20

JIJL 7.7

09526970

201-300985

-"SE

E2 INQUET CL BY 054979 .....

• c...........

dent

6.1

---

## Page 7

14-00000

"fiE

Fasi cir

,".

sono a el z, Mochere, ente ana

TJ:

TEDESAL CUOLAU OF INVESTIGATICHIESTELL-ETHOS DIVISICHE

V.E. ARMY INICLLIGENCE AGENCY FORT MEADE, MARYLANCO ATTO: MITA-SO.I

SE!RE J--UARNING ACTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHOSS INVOI VEI--NOT BELEASAGLI TO FOREICH MNTICAS--NOT

RELEASADLE TO CONTRACTONS OR CONTRACTORACONSULTANIS--JISSCHINATION

AND EXTRAGTICH OF ENFORNATION CONTPOLLES BY PRIGINATON Y

SUBJECT: TENSONISI FLOTTING BY CUBAN ENILES: INFOCMATION RELATING

TO ACTIVITIES OT U-SO ARMY MINOR LUIN ARMANO BONTES "

REFERENCES: CIOL-U424-Ä6 OF 1I DECENSES I97O SUSJECT 1S ANCHE:

FIRCT-312/03635-76 OF 6 DECEMOLK aTiG SUOVECT CucraTiv

MAINTAINCO BY CERTAIN DOMINICAN MILITANY DIFICERS AND ANTI-CASTRO

CUBAN FXTLES.Og •

I: THE FOLLONING INFURMATION WAS ACCUINED BY CIA PURSUANT TO

ASPECTS OF INTERMATIOUAL TERRORISI ACTIVITY. ACCORDING TO A

USUALLY RELIABLE DOMINICAN SOURCE UNO RECEIVES THE INFORIIATION

FPOIS A DOMINICA AIR FORCE COLÓNCLO U.S. ARMY MADOR JUAN APHAND

U916E

UNii:

EXT:

'SKSCARI ET-3/501

caseriernon

PEPROSUCTION EY OTHER TER TAE LEURS 006.0F 1 P904ISTEE

---

## Page 8

4-00000

200

0

то очі деют

meanseeria

04.8

CiSSEN DY:

CONF:

#FE: FiLE

462167

катись 10

FER

PONTES ATTENSO A NEETING OF ANTI-CASiRO CURAN

EXILES LIS

CANTO DOMLACE 1!

INFLY MOVENBER 1976 AT THE HOlE OF A FORMER

SENATOR OF INE ENTISTA GOVERNMENTO. MONTES CALE TO THE SONINICAN

¡FUELSE TO ACQUIRE DOMINICAN SUPPORT FOR THE "CRUSADE AGAINST

¡GASTRO" AND ASTED THAT CUSAN EXILES IN THE DOMINICAN REPUDLIC AND

• DOMINICAN MILITARY AND CIVILIANS WERE VILLING TO COOPERATE. THE

LIAISON MAN BETWEEN THE VARIOUS ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES IS LUAN

SOR MOSCE MITONTO P8 AT MIO APPARENTLY RESIDES IN MINIS:

¡HEADQUARTENS CORNCUT: PRAT HAY POSSISLY CE ANTONTO PRAT

BARROSO, A VETERAN OF THE BAI OF FIGS I!VASION JY

2• ACCORDING TO THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE COLONEL. A MEETING

TOOK PLACE WHEN ORLANDO BOS CH AVILA, CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST

LEADERO STILL LIVED IN SANTO DOMINGO TO DISCUSS VARIOUS TERRORIST

PLANS. THE LITTER TACLUOCO PLACING SONOS MN CUBAN AIRCRAFT AND

AT CUBAN DIPLONATIC MISSIONSI SABOTAGING CLEAN AND SUVIET SHIPS:

KIDNAPPING THE CUSIN ANBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS AND MILLING

HIGH-LEVEL CUBIN OFFICIAL CARLOS RAFAEL- RODRIGUÉZIN

LISBON ESILS• PATTICLOANIT AT THIS MEETING LICLUDED SOSCH AVILAI

DATE:

OkIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

cuse-raine

соосотятью отти ноа

ЗЕРРОРУСТІ! НУ СТЕС ДИЛО ТИГ!-G СЕКСЕ ВЗ РRОМУIT.L

---

## Page 9

Là:.

3

SICHET

pare Tu

CLA

0

DISSiM 87:

PFG: MILE

912:07

•DUNi CDUANTO PERE E FRANCO, A CUBAN EXILEI EX-OÑIGADIER

GENERAL SALVADOR LE UBERES MONTASO FORTER CHIEF OF STAFF

OF THE DOMINTIAN AIR FORCLI COLGUEL A BAE& TENUS OF THE

DOMINICAN AIR FORCE: JOSE LOUB A DURRI TPHONETICHI FERNANIO

MUNIZ. E IOLINICANI RAUL COR RUDENO SL IND E R. EPHONETICI.

A DONINICANS AND LUIS DO SA CORPEZA DE POSARA

PETER COR FEDÃOO MAR TIM E E WAS MENSIOREO AS A COGEDINATOR

OF ONE OF ITHE PLANNE: TENRURISI ACTS.Y

§. AFIELD COMMENT: AIR FORCE COLONEL ASSESU MAY BE EITGER

COLONEL JUAL DiS LA APREU, COMANDER OF THE NONTHERN ZONE.

OR GENERAL ELADIO MARMOLE SOS ABREGO COMMANDER OF THE

SAN ISIDO AIR FORCE BASE UNO IS A CLOSE FRIEND OF FORMER GENERAL

ELUEBRES MOLTAS. FENNANDO MUNIZ IS PASSIRLY IBENTICH. MITH THE

RIGITIST DOMINICAN LABOR LEADER OF THIS NANE-* EHFAEQUARTERS

BUTÜARI CRESTO, SOÑN R2 NOVENSER INES, HAVANA, A VETERAN

OF THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. PETER MARTINIEI RAY EE IDENTICAL

VITH FEDRO CELESTINA MARTINEZ GARCES, SOR: I9 MAY 1924

uлir.:

Uisit:

EXT:

marian eracis

.

....^....

......

=.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

- one.

i..

D

4

+.680-7880 106

SECHET

DO18-81488A3U19

CIA

€155-4.8iY.

INFO:

fiLE

962147

aireras lo PCP.

DATABAND, CUBA, CAPTURED DURING THE DAY OF PIGS INVASION AND

SUESECULNTLY LIBEKATED. LUIS POSA MAY BE IDENTICAL WITINLUIS

POSA DA CARRILES SIO WAS ARRESTED BY THE VENCZUELAC

LUTHORITILS WITH BOSCH AVILA FOR HIS INVOLVENENT IN CORLECTION

Wrent

LITH TIC CUDANA CRASH OFF CARBADOS iND LAS SUESTEDENTLY RELFANED. JY

40 THIS AGENCY CONTINUES WILLING TO ASSIST IN UHATEVER

ACTION ADDHESSEES MAS UISIL TO TIE. PLIASE ADVISE US OF THE

RESULTS OF YOUR INVESTIGAÏIONSY

S. CLASSIFICD BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. SUNS-E-S.

BASED ON: SANTO DONINGO 17 B2 1IN 1321251

SANTO DOMINGO 27938 IN 2323541

SOURCE: EMKAGO: EMFIST-I FROM COLONEL USINO GUZMAN LIRIANO

FILE: 22-9-20 AND 201-7423550

Finicanstheries

DATE: 22 DEC 7I

OSIG: VIVIAN CARDELLA

ACICIIOGIAY

WAIT: LAGGAR DRIER

EXT:

7379

PCS/ITC - Ecson Wannes (lelecord)

!.

Meeries

•CUTEER SI

SCROCACTIC" SY OTHER THEN THE ISSENG CANCE I PROSE FES

they no is an

---

## Page 11

4-00000

onco

ViiF n

SECRET

al as and tracars encecatos

STAFF

coMr (/2A8

0.0

3

36-7

2223392..

DIRECTOR

562054

DISSEM BY: LA

WiLINTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE Y

TO: CARACAS, SANTO DOMINGO. A C/CRA CERTER 2, GIA

REFS: A: CARACAS 31765 lIN 1363391

B. SANTO DOMINGO 17938 |IN 133384/ Y

J. WE HAVE NOT YET DETERMINED IF LUIS POSAD A CARRILES

(201-0300985) IS A U.S. PERSON. THIS IS A COMPLICATED ISSUE AND

REQUIRES FUTHER INVESTIGATION AT HAS. OUR LATEST INFO FROM IENS IS

THAT HIS RESIDENT ALIEN STATUS WAS TERMINATED AT OUR REQUEST BECAUSE

OF HIS 30 JUNE 3974 DECISION TO STAY IN VENEZUELA. Y

.2. DUE TO COMPLEXITY OF SITUATION

INVOLVING POSADA AND CUBAN

EXILE MATTERS IN VENEZUELA, HOS FEELS INVESTIGATION OF POSADA

CUNILATERAL OR LIAISONS MIGHT CAUSE PROBLEMS FOR CARACAS STATION.

THEREFORE REQUEST CARAÇAS TAKE NO ACTION AT THIS TIME ON REF 8

REQUEST. Y

3. FILE: 200-6-484: 201-0742365; 201-0300985. E2 IMPDETOM •

LA COMMENT: POSADA IS FORMER UKSCARLET-S, CHENN AGENT WITH VENEZUE-

LAN CITIZENSHIP, WHO WAS A HIGH-LEVEL DISIP

(CIVILIAN INTELS OFFICIAL.

HE HAS BEEN ADDOCIATED WITH PERSONS IMPLICATED IN CUBANA BUMBING

OF 6 OCTOBER.

CROSS CORE TOR

DATE: 22 DEC 76 CHO

ORIG: G. VICKERS: PM

UNIT: LA/PNCIV

S: 3739

i case.

sulu

alleagus omprene

AC/LA/CAR--L. THERRY (DRAFTE

201-3:883

AGC--TONY GOLDEN EDRAFTY

сос- Лівілиів

mind

sonamarinaderrens

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRCHIBITED

SECRET

IMPDET

CL BY: 007255

---

## Page 12

14-00000

uM or

SECRE:

TABONMUMT MORATO

ADIANCECO

RETION UNIT

cLAS

ACTION.

па юDU.

•88. 1460

STAFF

DUROBLOTIIO

RA FILE

YA.

474960

E1 A&15

Ane GlOt

TOR: 2122412 DEC 76

IN 136339

CARA

31765

EG E T 212Z3GE DEC TO STAFF

SITE CARACAS 31765

TO: DIRECTOR, SANTO DOMINGO.

WNINTEL RYEAT MMSPIKE

REFI SANTO DOMINGO 17938 (IN' 133384)

1. WE CAN TASK WKNORTH-S, LIAISON PENETRATION, WITH REF

RECUIREMENT. HOWEVER, SINCE LUIS'P ?'S

30098 ZARRILES MAY SE

U.S. PERSONO WOULD LIKÉ TO BEFER TO HOS FOR READING UNDER

Е. 0. 11905.

Ee #lLE: +28-8-484: 221-6762365.

E2, IMPDET.

SECRET

CRUSS LIE: G007 PC?

501- 300285

PHAN

---

## Page 13

., eas:, p.up

as 1 279

SECRET

STAFF

436855

Fut

Mestic

1 65/2602

1c10) 174

2514

E18292

FaGE

TOR:: 719302 DE6. 75

SFCR E T 17:9107 DEE TO STAFE

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 17938

TOS DIRECTOR, CARACAS

WNINTEL RYEAT MUSPIKE

REFA SANTA DOMINGO 17832 «DY EBER ERRACAS)

Ce51

1. RE PARA 1 E, RES. STATION UNILA TERNAL ASSET EMCLIPPER-1

REPORTS THAT VENEZUELAV CITIZEN LUIS P OS A D A ARRIVED

SANTO DOMINGO FROM CARACAS ON VIASA FLIGHT A JUVE AND DEPARTED

7 JUNE 1976. PESADA TRAVELLEO MN A TOURIST CARD. POSADA

MATA ONTHIC UNCLEAR. EMCLIPPER-i'S BESA

GUESS IS "GARRIDO"

•OR "CARRIDO" BUT HE MINIS THIS COULD BE WAY OFF.

?• CARACAS: REF REPORTEO ON PARTICIPANTS IN MEETING

IDATE UNANONNI DE CURRA EXILE TEPRORISIS IN SANTO DOMINGO.

NAME OF ONE OF ¡NE OURTICIPANTE NAS REPORTED AS "LUIS NOS A."

PEZAORPOSADA", STATION ASSUMES THIS IS LUIS

POS A D A CARRILES. IS POSSISLE, WILL APPRECIATE CARACAS

CHECK TRAVEL OF POSADA ON A JUNE. NO OBUFCTION CHECKING WITH

LIAISON.

o FILE: 896-8-498

281-782365. EZ. IMPDET.

1 N 133388

SDOM

19938

SECRET

---

## Page 14

17 Md0.m608 110785

File ERSARIET3

MINORANDUS FOR THE RECORD

An a result of the request in CARACAS 31137, a

chock of I&NS records revealed the following regarding

U.S. person, slatus of

1. Orlando Garcia

Became U.S. citizen on 11 October 1954.

Lost U.S. citizenship when he became a

citizen of Venezucla on 31 August 1962

2.

3.

Luis Posada Carriles

I&NS files contasha letter from ClA

terminating his resident alien status

bocause of his 30 June 1971 decision to

stay in Venezuela

Ricardo Morales Nvarrete

ast remitted to US August 1, 1976 wit

as to ire point tree to na

(Address to be visite

stant, Fla.)

Was never naturalized.

---

## Page 15

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1976

CABLE

(FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: UNSUBS:

BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8 NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES

OCTOBER 6, 1976, NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA - WEST INDIES

FBI FILE NO:

NONE GIVEN

---

## Page 16

4-00000

MISING RONICE:

CASTE ANMILLIGACE SOULCES AD AIODS LEOLIED

F:0:1

EULJICT

director

Hideanl inrea of Investigition

Hijuty Director for Operations

..

Inforuction Regering Anti-castro

Figures l'ossibly involved in licucralit)

1. Of other violations of lederal Law

.

Memorandur from Director, Ful, to

Director,

CIn, Dateu 26 MovcHber 1976,

Sire Subjeet

:1 •

The referenced senorander requested complete ClA

Indomation on soue 23 principal anti-Cistro figures who .

üro of invcstigative interest to the lüI. Aitached lcre-

vith aro CiA traces on soven individuals nentioned in the

FiI listing.

Vata on the remaining of will follo: sepa-

¡stole sud inacerougally as praces are cordleted.

CIX-316/01581-70

Classariod by 09660. Uxcit frou Gicreral loclassification

!."

11'3?

Si (2).

sile to determine dato of intonatie Declassitication.

KARNING COTIC!

seasifive freilio

• SOUrCis

DDO/LN/O'S/:. Carlej:lch (7 Dec 76) (1173)

Discribution:

Fill

13.e.8iru

?!.

15n9.

f. Kidseen

austrian: on.

---

## Page 17

4-00000

NOVa Sarigol, Guillerno.

there is no infornation

mailable on hin beyond that prorided this rene? by tho

FBI.

There is no current or pierious operationa

interest

in this individual.

NOvO Sampol, Ignacio. There is no information

mailable on him beyond that provided this agency by tro

There is no curront or prcrious merational interest

this individual.

LUGO Alejandrina, Freddy.

There is no infornation

available on him.

There is no curreni or previous operaiional

interest in this indiricual.

1. RICARDO Loiano, Hernan. There is no information

arailable on hin.

There jo no

current or previous oper.

ational interest in this individual.

5.

ROSCH drila, Orlando.

This agency was in contact

with BOSCH in Miami

fron approximately January to Noverber

1902.1

He was under consiueration as mu'rtoma, coordinator"

in the frolio Hugue coile crouy.

BOSCH was to assist the

Agency and Duque in cornuiating operacional plans for infil-

tracion (into Cuba)

teans.

Roscil did obtain sachouses

and

procured lood supplies for inc cams.

Available

information

does not indicale my agency contact with Bosch or this

purpose

subsequent to dovember 1962.

and

later, on si ocroper

l November

1965, a representative of unis agency met in

New Yorl City with BOSCH Luice.

These tho nectings were in

connection with efforts by BOSCHl to secuis finarcial backing

jor

air

strikes

incrica) against cuba.

it this cinc las the enorai coordinator o:

cine in-

Millikanal Morerior!

BOSCH was

inforned throuch in intermediars on cither 2 or

ovenber 1003 that no financial baching would bo forthconing.

is no arailable intumation to indicate cur Agency

contact lith bOSCH subsequent to 1 November 1903.

6.

POSADA Carriles, luis. POSinl arrived in

the u.s.

in Fobruary 1961 as a poliiical rofucco. Shortly after his

arrival, he joined the 1500 trigade and receive: paraniliiar;

for the Bay of Pigs invasion.

PosaDa received ai least

do fort denny, curgie, linishing up as a Securd iiculoui

---

## Page 18

14-00001

SHERIT

did routini dificer of a leapons platoon in a kanger

melek owed denolitions training.

In March:

reled lo the duency do serve as a

perill.

ranch instruciorin Florida.

Intornation

al ill tire marcaled that he already nas

reported to be

capere". PoSana also was used as a source

or ::!i:

& i:

ruban exile activities.

In 1965 POSANA

so molin: noth luis Stilll Loper lho was working with

duborio lilos drau, a Guateralan tho was attenpting to

its Cantonalan Government.

rosal was of interest

to tie

shtawito0s group because of his knowledge of

demolitiona all dcapons.

10s.10n reported to the Agency

and Thier to she 15l, on his involvemont in and the activities

ihi: group (and subseguent other Cuban coile actirist

argillail loris with

which he hecane affiliated). is of

Anguil

used solold as an informant

on the activitis;

0f

the Coban Representation in fxile (RLCH), a Miani-based

coile group.

rosand was dormally terminated in july 1y0r.

In august 10ó7 he vas mentioned in a Marana Radio broadcast

is it

liaison man between thie agency and RiCE.

In august

190? 10901 mored lo Caracasand secured a position with

mhe lonzuelan socurit service not newr

the agency's Caracas

Scation hired POSADA as an

inforiand

on moronst actirities, with secondary lsc

as a source on luhan exile acidities

in Venezuela.

functioned in this capacity until 1970 when a change in

lenciuclan Corornment administration

resulted in the loss

of his job with DISIP.

die

cormally torminated ly Caracas

Stition on

50 Jure 1071; hoverer,

eccasional contact was

maintained with him at his initiative bocause of certain

cuirinading V.S. Federal Income Tas probloms POSADI had

bock!se oi his (then)

stalus as a Permanont Resident alien

the u.s.

In

mid-February 1976,

lesand recontacted caracas

Station to volunteer a report on the whereabouts of Orlando

BUSCH AVILA, FrONt

CASIkU 1a2,

and on a thread to the lie

of Salvador MIENDE's nopher in Costa Rica.

The final con-

rict perleen

tue ageney and rusana occuricá on li June dyis

when he contacred

the Caracas Station to request visa as-

sistance for his wiie and himself; the assistance las denied.

7.

CARB.11.1O Dias, Roberio. CARBALLO receiled Agency

aramilitaro

toninin!

do me sin cind arigolo in

for the bay of Piss

intasion.

He was captured

at the Bit of Pigs.

subscuuently was released bo the

Cuban Governaent.

apart tron

2506 Brigade service, there

is no available information to indicate any subsequent con.

SECRET

in treat

---

## Page 19

14-00000

S.

Agene

on auditional perions

mentioned

• in the

•o solember loie Fil demorandom

lo the drones sill

follo:

separately.

---

## Page 20

SELUKE SIURALE

DISPATCH

•Chief, Latin America DIlision

CLASCGAPATO

SECRET

100HS M107S79

NO 1465811056

¡APERTURI CARO RIQUESTIO

FROM

#chies of Station, Quito

BLIQR 1s GUTFADI'S EISt ContactsWith

ASTION FIQUITED - GRILLINGES

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES & NETHODS INVOLVED

1. He understand from press accounts that Orlando Bosch,

NKSCARLET-3 and several other. Cuban exiles mere recently arrested

and charged with the

sabotage of a Cubana Airlines afrliner

6 October.

After having read these accounts NOC Byron k.. GUTRADT

reported, for the record, that he once knew fosch and WRSCARLET-3

in the early 1960's.

GUTRADT met KÄSCARLET-3 in 1964 when both

were enrolled in OCS at Fort Benning, Georgia.

GUTRADT at that

time had already terminated his relationship nith BiHERALD.

While at OÇS GUTRADT was not particulariy close to WKSCARLET-3

• but WKSCARLET-3 was generally knowledgeable •≤ GUTRADT'S back-

ground and past BKHERALD activities.

GUTRADE has not seen

NKSCARLET-3 since 1964 after completion of the OCS course and

doutts serjougly that WKSCARLET-3 would rererber him.

2. GUTRADT met Bosch circa 1963 in Miami when GUTRADT WaS

training Bosch in a BKHERILD-sponsored prograr.

Bosch only knew

GUTRADT in alias.

GUTRADT has not seen bosch since completion

of this training.

Given the length of time that has elspsed plus the lack

of closeness to either

WKSCARLET-3 or Besch, GUTRADT and the

Station do not believe that their knowledge of his past SHERALD

activities presents any security problems today.

GUTRADT, of

unwitting

of their alleged current activities

was surprised to hear of the borbing of the cubana airliner.

i. <

Gerald R. GIZZI

•1P IN

Plo: 89:610

985"01

Distribution:

3-C/LAD

E2 • INPDET

CROSS RIMEINE 1O

B2i-218392

DISCATCH SYMBOL AND NUMIR

HEQA-09809

CITt

15 NOVATE 976

Is ret e54s

12300985

---

## Page 21

"ORD MITY

391458798

see see Essen or 28 iDea.

SECRET

PEASED IDIT NOTIFIED.

SNONCLA

_. CDUA 19821

TING WI

FILE

va cheelAN, c/cy, cloPs,

c/PS/EGa, ClaSG, c/SIA2, 0003

8 367182

EL A358

1. ^ 838

PAGE D1

TOR: 091943Z NOV 76

SECRET DOLOGiE NOV TO STAFF

CITE CARAÇAS 31380

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTUR.

• WNINTEL RYBAT WKBOXER

REFA DIRECTOR 939718

1. EVENING & NOVEMBER 1976 WKSCARLET-1 (WOLY MADE SURPRISE

VISIT TO CONSULATE REQUESTING SEE-BRADSPIES, IN TYPICALLY

DEMANDING FASHION; WKSCARLET-1 SAID HE WANTED TO BE PUT IN

CONTACT WITH MICHAEL G, CHOADEN AND WANTED BRADSPIES HELP

IN OBTAINING BUSINESS VISA FROM CONSULATE. WOL PREFACED .

HIS FIRST REQUEST WITH STATEMENT HE HAD BEEN PROMISED BY

CHOADEN WHEN HE LAST VISITED THE HEADQUARTERS AREA THAT A

BKHERALD REPRESENTATIVE WOULD CONTACT HIM FOLLOWING HIS RETURN

TO CARACAS, AND THAT NO-ONE HAD CONTACTED HIM. (FACT OF

MATTER IS WOL HAD EARLIER TOLD US THAT FOR SECURITY REASONS

HE SHOULD ONLY BE CONTACTED AT HIS OFFICE, IMMEDIATELY

FOLLOWING HIS RETURN FROM VISIT, HE CLOSED THE OFFICE AND

DID NOT RESPOND TO ATTEMPES TO CONTACT HIM.I W-I ALSO

SAID HE HAD TRIED

TO GET HELP FROM LEGATT IN

DETAINING VISA

BUT HAD BEEN TOLD "LEGATT NOT

AVAILABLE".

SECRET

RUDUCTION

THER THI

SUING ORPICE IS PROMIBITE

STANPRECEDENCE

IN 294881

CARA

31380

---

## Page 22

14-00000

+049M

4415

7-9186J2198

CABLE SEC DISSEN BY

SECRET

ВО ОСь в5 РНОМвіР

BEVING

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED.

STAFF

ADIANCE CORE ISSUERSLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE.

VR

ACTION a

T 367182

-ELASSI

PÄGE 02

TO RA 091943Z NOV 76

IN 894881

• CARA

31 38 8

2, HOL WAS TOLD THAT WE DID NOT KNOW THE PRESENT

LOCATION OF CHOADEN AS HE HAD RETIRED BUT WOULD LOOK INTO

THE MATTER, WOL INDICATED HE WANTED THE VISA IMMEDIATELY

(CONSULATE WAS OBVIOUSLY CLOSED WITH CHAR FORCE' IN FULL

SHING) AND WAS ASKED THE NATURE OF HIS BUSINESS VISITO HE

SEEMED TO RESENT THIS INQUIRY AND SAID NEVER MIND, HE WOULD

VISIT THE CONSULATE HIMSELF ON 9 NOVEMBER AND MAKE WIS OWN

APPLICATION, SHADSPIES ASKED IF WOI WOULD SADICATE A TIME

FOR HIS PROPOSED VISIT AND VOLUNTEERED TO BE AVAILABLE TO

PERSONALLY RECEIVE HIM, THPS SEEMED TÓ ANNOY WOL EVEN

FURTHERS ME THEN AROSE AND WALKED OUT OF THE CONSULATE WITHOUT

ANOTHER WORD.

3, AS HEADQUARTERS AWARE: WOL HAS IN PAST RETAINED

PRIVATE INVESTIGATIDAS FIRM OF LUIS POSA DA TO CONDUCT

INVESTIGATIONS FOR NOL AS SECURITY ADVISOP TO THE GUSTAVO

VOLMER INDUSTRALIST GROUP, WE HAVE SEEN OTHER AGENCY INFO

THAT NOL IS ACTUALLY A SHAREHOLDER IN POSADAIS INVESTIGATIONS

FIRMA BUT POSADA NEVER LISTED hOL AS AMONG PARTNERS HE

IDENTIFIED TOÜS CURING OUR LAST FEN

CONTACTS WITH HIM.

WKNORIM-17 BELIEVES NO1 IS A BUSINESS PARTNER OF POSADA AND HAS

SECRET

...

--

---

## Page 23

IHU03,9.

CABLE SEC CISSEM 8Y

_Pia

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIEO

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUEDISIOTIIO

ACTION UAIT

RF

FILE

ACTION O

7 367182

MA COP:

SECRET

OPMER TMAI

IS SUING

STAFF

VR

ET A358

PÄGE 83

TORIBO1GA3Z NOV 76

ALLEGED TO US THAT WOL IS IN PART RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CUBANA

AIRLINES BOMBING

ON 6 OCTOBER, WE THINK THIS ALLEGATION

WAS PART OF THE GOV INTENT TO TIE THE COPE! PARTY INTO THE

BOMGINGO BUT DO NOT KNOW WHAT EVIDENCE GOV MAY HAVE.

4, AMBASSADOR. HAS BEEN BRIEFED ON PARA 1 AND 2 ASOVEO.

HAS STATED ME DOES NOT WANT STATION INVOLVED VISA MATTER AND

IS INSTRUCTING CONSULATE ON HOW TO HANDLE.

5, ONLY EXPLANATION FOR WOI CONDUCT WHICH IMMEDIATELY

OCCURS TO US IS THAP HE WAS STILL SMARTING FROM BUAGINED

SNUA BY LEGATE PLATTEN IS NO DOUGT GUNOSHY ABOU GIVING VISA

ASSISTANCE AFTER THE MERNAA REGAR DO LUGGAG EPIEGGE:

WHEN ME CONTACTED STATIONA ME MAY ÖE IN A MURRY TE LEAVE

VENEZUELA DUE FEAR IMMINENT ARREST I SEE REFO ANO ANS COUNTING

ON IMMEDIATE GRANT OF BUSINESS VISA WHICH AGULO FACHLITATE

PROLONGEO STAY IN U.S,

6, ABOVVE IS FY! AS HOL MAY ATTEMPT HIGH LEVEL AGENCY

CONTACT NEXT TIME HE IS IN HEADOUARTERS AREA.

7. FILE:

281-8740849.

E2, IMPDET.

IN

19 48 81

CARA

31380

-

SECR

E.T

---

## Page 24

4-00000

¡rico 276

PUT B3R2 MAD:

SECRET

5 окомвіг

PRASONNINIT NOTHIEO.

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY ISSUES SLOTTEO.

ACTION UNIT

LA8

ACTION A

т 352499

FILE

: VH

YPLANINE8, DA03,

AG/ODO, olst+T64, c/oPS,

E1A048

- PAGE 81

TOR: 831743Z NOV 76

IN 088993

CARA

31326

SECRET 031722Z NOV

76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31326

TO: CIRECTOR.

WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE

REF: CARACAS 31255 (IN ORIGIN)

1.. FYI, CARACAS NEWSPAPERS MORVING 3 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT FOLLOWING RESULTS 2 NOVEMBER JUDICIAL HEARING. ON

INVESTIGATIN OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT BOMBING:

A. JUDGE ORDERED CONTINUED DETENTION OF HERNAN

RICARDO LOZANO, FREDDY LUGO, LUISPOSA DA

CARRILES AND ORLANDO 8O SCH AVILA.

BO HERMES RO JAS PERALTA, GUETON OLEG

RODRIGUE I DE LA SERRA TRETIACOFF, WILLIAM WOLF

FIGUEREDO AND FRANCISCO NUNEZ VALLEJO WERE SET FREE

BUT WILL CONTINUE TO DE SUBJECTED TO FURTHER INVESTIGATION.

C. ALFREDO RAFAEL MAZINIS MASSIN IS PEREZ AND CELSA

MARY TOLE DO

ALEMAN WERE ABSOLVED OF ANY TIES TO THE

CASE •

2. IN COMMENTING UN DECISION, JUDGE SAID ALL FOUR

DETAINEES MND VIOLATED ARTICLES ARE AND 275 OF IME CRIMINAL

# 501-299292

RECORD COPY

201-300985

ЗʼПНІ6

...

---

## Page 25

*+*

8.896090 8/79

CABLE SEC DiSSEM DY.

_PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE :

ACTION a

N

F

07352488

EL A848

10101.10009

SECRET

ISRUINO

STAFF

VR .

PAGE 02-22

TOR: 0317437 NOV 76

TN 888993

CARA 31326

CODE AND WERE ALLEGEDLY GUILTY OF "GUALIFIED HOMICIDE" AND

MANUFACTURE AND USE OF WEAPONS OF WAR, BOSCH AVD POSADA

WERE ACCUSED AS AUTHORS OF THE BOMBING. BOSCH WAS ALSO

CHARGED WITH VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLES 32B, 323 AND 327 OF

CRIMINAL CODE FOR USE AND FABRICATION

OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION.

JUDGE COMMENTED THAT COURT MAD SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO

PROSECUTE.

3. FILE:

201-8300985.

EZ IMPDET.

---

## Page 26

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SOÑÃI CRATROUBRONDI

501

sio

OMF O

our sara.

"corneate

52:883

CONF:

A/CI

0300087

CIA/DDO

BUFO: FILE

DDO3 Dod/s0..

Masaa

937064

by or smel

то того

0

=112

TO: | FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/INTELLIGENCE DIVISION-S

CIOL - 0367-76 8

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE --SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACIION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY

ORIGINATOR Y

• SUBJECT: REPORT RECEIVED BY PANAMANIAN NATIONAL GUARD ON ACTIVITIES

OF CUBAN EXILES POSSIBLY INVOLVED IN TERRORISM Y

3. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION UAS RECEIVED FROMAN OFFICIAL OF A

PANAMANIAN SERVICE UHO IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HE PROVIDED

THE INFORMATION WITHOUT THE KNOULEDGE OF MIS SERVICE OR GOVERNMENT.

THE INFORMATION IS VERY SENSITIVE, AND NO ACTION BASED UPON IT SHOULD

BE UNDERTAKEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THIS AGENCY Y

.. 2. ON 22 OCTOBER 1976. THE G-2 SECTION OF THE PANAMANIAN

NATIO'AL GUARD EGNFRECEIVED A HANDURITTEN, DOCUMENT WHICH APPARENTLY

WAS OBTAINED FROM A NEU GN G-Z-SOURCE IN MIAMI. ALTHOUGH THIS SOURCE

IS NOT IDENTIFIED BY NAME IN THE DOCUMENT, THE WRITER APPEARS TO BE

THE PROPRIETOR OF "PASCO'S SEA FOOD, " 1030 WEST TUENTY-THIRD STREET.

HIALEAH, WITH TELEPHONES 885-7344 COFFICE), 888-626? CHOMES. THE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNTT:

EXT:

*CASLE SEC SUGGESTS ODITIONAC DISSEM TOO LA, UPSITE, ACCLODO

DT

cassan ances

REPRODUGTION AY OTHER THAN TUE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

E. 2

---

## Page 27

OUTGOING MESSAGE

DIAMAs CRAPARVAROMT

тоо

- 20

000

OMF D

ПАВЛЮКАТЬ»

SECRET

00

/

CIA/DDO

DISSEM BYE

CONF:

.937064

по тока

PHOTE NUMBER 854-4031 FOLLOUÉD BY NOTATION "MY HOUGS. " ALSO APPEARS

ON DOCUMENT. THE URITER IS ASKING US-S 030,000 FOR HIS SERVICES-L

3. PRESUMABLY TO ESTABLISH HIS BONA FIDES AND SUBSTANTIATE HIS

ACCESS TO INFORMATION OF VALUE TO THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENTO THE

URITER SUBMITTED A LENGTHY REPORT ON ALLEGED RECENT CUBAN EXILE

ACTIVITIES ACCOMPANIED BY A LONG LIST OF CUBAN EXILEACTIVISTS. THE

DOCUMENT CONTAINS AN ALLEGATION OF CIA INVOLVEMENT IN THIS ACTIVITY:

THE DOCUMENT STATES THAT ORLANDO BOS CH IS UNDER ARREST IN

VENEZUELA TOGETHER UITH LUIS PO SARA CARBILES ALIAS "EL BAMBI."

BOSCH WAS TRAVELING ION A COSTA RICAN PASSPORT AND ALSO BES NICARAGUAN,

DOMINICAN, AND CHILEAN PASSPORTS. Y

4. THE REPORT LISTED BOSCH'S CONTACTS AS MANUEL P ORR O IN.

NICARAGUA, (DESCRIBED AS BEING CLOSE TO GENERAL ANASTASIO SO MO Z AS

ORLANDO NUNEZ IN COSTA RICARi AND MARIO RIVADILLA IN

SANTO DOMINGO. POSADA IS DESCRIBED IN THE REPORT AS A FORMER U.S.

ARMY RANGER, UHO WORKED FOR THE VENEZUELAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF

POLICE (DIGEPOLS FOR EIGHT YEARS AÑD THEN ORGANIZED A PRIVATE

DETECTIVE AGENCY WHICH EMPLOYS OVER 1,000 MEN. POSADA, ACCORDING

OATE?

•

ORIGI

UNITS

EXT.

?о.

cases no as oracea

REPRODUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

сеттия отосатоо отосяе

€ 2

IMPDET

DT

---

## Page 28

OMF

OUTGOING

MESSAGE

LAUMAL CANIDO JOE ONLY

ток

0

• 0.

SECRET

atte

vire sea

pses

нави

2178

DISSEM STA

CONF:

INFO: FILE

93106%

-...

0 0720

TO THE REPORT, DIRECTED ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS IN VENEZUELA AGAINST THE

COMMUNISTS. HIS ALIASES WERE "INSPECTOR BASILIO" AND "EL CALICHE-"

THE RECENT OPERATION AGAINST THE CUBANA PLANE WAS MOUNTED BY POSADA.

ASSISTED BY ALDO VERA. THE RITER OF THE REPORT CONTINUES THAT

BOSCH'S RECENT TRIP TO VENEZUELA WAS AN ATTEMPT TO SETTLE THE

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN "ALDO'S GROUP" AND THE "COORDINATION OF UNITED

REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS" (CORUS. BOSCH'S MISSION WAS SUCCESSFUL

AS IT APPEARS CORU AND ALDO'S GROUP WILL UNITE. ALDO VERA IS

REPORTEDLY IN PUERTO RICO. THE URITER ADDS THAT ALDO'S GROUP WILL

ENTER VENEZUELA IN NOVEMBER 1976 TO MOUNT A SERIES OF ATTACKS AGAINST

CUBAN EMSASSIES IN CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA. Y

'5. IT IS NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR FROM THE REPORT, BUT IT APPEARS

THAT THE WRITER IS REQUESTING THAT VIVIAN

FERNANDEZ DE

CASTRO, POSSIBLEY JAILED IN CUBA, BE ALLOWED TO TRAVES TO PANAMA

SINCE SHE HAS ALREADY SERVED HER SENTENCE. FERNANDEZ WOULD THEN

TRAVEL FROM PANAMA TO MIAMI WHERE SHE WOULD BE OF SERVICE TO THE

WRITER. Y

b. THIS AGENCY PROVIDED ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO THE FBI

DATE:

ORIGI

UNITE

• EXTE

•

thos

КАпО

SECRET

....

easoneros anacers

REPRODUSTION OY OTMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIAITED

E 2

---

## Page 29

4-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

010011 081989108о

то0

OMF O

cubanacation

SECRET

маяалоо пеность тожатом

Data roo

остав

DISCEN BRE

COMF:

INFO: FILE

. 937064

SHULD BECIES

ON QUIS POSADA VIA CIR-294-76 ON 62 OCT 1976. NO ADDITIONAL INFORMA-

TION IS AVAILABLE ON MANUEL PORRO. ORLANDO NUNEZ MANY BE ICENTICAL

TO ORLANDO NUNE Z PEREZ, WHO ACCORDING TO THE RECORDS OF THIS

AGENCY, IS A CUBAN EXILE RESIDING IN COSTA RICA AND SERVING AS PRESS

SECRETARY OF COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT JOSE FIGURES AS OF

MARCH 1973. MARIO RIVADILLA MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH MARIO RIVA-

DULL A CARCEDO, DPOB: CIRCA 1930, CUBA. IN I9SZ A FEARLY RELIABLE*

SOURCE SAID THAT HE WAS A COMMUNIST MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE

COUNCIL OF THE ORTHODOX CUBAN PEOPLE'S PARTY IPPCS AND CHIEF OF THE

PROPAGANDA BUREAU OF THE ORTHODOX YOUTH, AN ARM OF THE PRO. IN A

1970 PRESS ARTICLE BASED ON INTERVIEUS- WITH RIVADULLA, HE CLAIRED TO

HAVE BEEN IMPRISONED IN CUBA FROM 1962 TO 1967 FOR ANTI-CASTRO -

ACTIVITIES. HE LEFT CUBA IN 1970. IN A 19Z2 NEWSPAPER INTERVIEU.

RIVADULLA CLAIMED TO BE A JOURNALIST LIVING IN THE DOMINICAN REFUBLIC

SINCE 1970 AND A MEMBER OF THE INTER-AMERICAN PRESS ASSOCIATION

WORKING FOR THE FREEDOM OF NEWSMEN IMPRISONED IN CUBA. IN ANOTHER

INTERVIEU IN 1972 HE CLAIMED TO HAVE ACTIVELY OPPOSED THE FULGENCIO

BATIS: A REGIME AND BACKED FIDEL CASTRO, BUT BECAME

DATES

ORIGE

UNITE

EXTE

raccoonci

coco sense enocens

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OTFICE IS PROMIBITEO

что коко

IMPOET

---

## Page 30

14-00000

vi

*xis

OUTGOING MESSAGE

con

OMFO

весовожатося

SECRET

1810n0e noos norcinos

0

nanomina

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DISSEM DYS

по кого

437064

сото pER =

O ..

DISTLLUSIONED WITH. THE CASTRO REGIME. IN 1974 HE WAS REPORTED TO BE

A RADIO AND TELEVISION COMMENTATOF IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

IN MOVEMBER 3975, A WOMAN LIVING. IN MIAMI WHOSE SON IS CURRENTLY

ALLEGERSY

A PRISONER IN CUBA ADVISED A CORTACT OF THIS AGENCY THAT RIVADULLA, MAD

BEEN. IN PRISON WITH HER SON. THEY HAD PROMISED EACH OTHER THAT THE

FIRST ONE TO BE RELEASED WOULD DO ALL IN HIS POWER TO OBTAIN THE

FREEDOM OF THE OTHER. IN THIS CONNECTION, RIVADULLA FURNISHED TO

THE MOTHER OF THE PRISONER THE NAME OF A WOMAN IN NEU YORK CITY UHO

PROMISED TO GET THE SONG OUT OF JAIL IN RETURN FOR PAYMENT OF U.S.

$25,000. THE WOMAN'

IS MARTA JIMENEZ MARTINEZ, WHOM IS DES-

CRIBED IN AGENCY RECORDSE AS VERY CLOSE TO FIDEL CASTRO, AN OPPORTUN-

IST. IRRATIONAL, AND UNPREDICTABLE. HER ESTRANGED HUSBAND, BERNAL

JA MIS FAYAD, IS REPORTEDLY A CUBAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF

interin.

INTELLIGENCE EDGIS OFFICER. / JIMENEZ IS ATTACHED TO THE CUBAN MINISTRY

OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND IS FREQUENTLY A DELEGATE TO THE UN GENERAL

ASSEMBLY.

S25S5A5

• FBI REPORT SJ-105-

14608, DATED 22 JUNE 1974, CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON RIVA-

DULLA. NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE ON VIVIAN FERNANDEZ

DATE:

ORIGI

UNITs

EXT:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED E 2

IRIPDET

...

-

---

## Page 31

14-00000

VILUVIIO MESSAGE

Dry me 887989 U88 0028

OMF 0

SECRET

пожятоя

COMF:

ViD: F1LR

937064

O servanco PER

О птоло #.

DE CASTRO. Y

17. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE IF EXECUTIVE ORDER LAUSZ. EXEMP-

TION CATEGORY 58 (2J. IMPOSSIOLI: TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC

DECLASSIFICATION. CLASSIFIED BY 012255-NB

-

FILE: 56-8-128 56-2-9131 201-282694; 201-2811974 201-876630; 203-

7840658 202-9203331 203-2992920

ACCLAVANG Bradele

ACILAIMACA

John Brakurth

7=

PACS/ITG I OSSe

AGCADDO

22 altin

i Stayin

CI/R&A

DATE:

ORIGi:

UNIT:

EXT:

J NOVEMBER 197610

DAVID F

THOMPSON:MEH

сместлтюн.

SECRET

сосхотятиь отсло

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Minines

E 2

IMPDET

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SEC

DO ORCHYENT FXTRACT

THE FOLLONING INFOGMATION COUCEPNIYS THE SUPUER

00SS1ER

HAS

S= THIS

.201.

BEEN EXTRACTEO FROM ANTHER UFFICIEL

FILE.

DERSTNS DERFIYOMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIGNED THET

THE ONCI-

MENT FROM WIICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CITATIS EIDITIONAL

INFIOMATIIN DERTAINING T

THE SURJECT AND SHOUL! 3E

OFOUFSTED

FPOM IPAFILES.

POSADA CARRILES; LUIS

201-0300985

SEX..M

CI.T.. VENE

075-008-015

CARA-31189

20 06T

76

HУC-07522

RES VENE. NATIVE

BORN CUBAN, GOUM HILTS SIIBS

RESPONSIBLE FOR 6 JOT TO BOUBING OF

CUBANA A IPLINER.

WILL KEQUEST VENE SOVT

_HIS VENE CITZENSHIP. AND TUPN HIM

OVER_TO THEM

FOR PRISECUTIIN• CUBAN GUVM INTENDS TO LIQUI-

DATE SUBJ CITHER WITH OR WITHOUT DUE PROCESS OF

DATE. 01 NUV -76

09446975

901-300985

SECRET

E2 I0DET CL 9Y 054279

.----.r....

------

....a. ...

| # .....

---

## Page 33

OUTGOING •TESSAGE

-i5-/

BIONAL CRUMRUBRONY

aar

10000400ms

188008 mator 1

• STAFF

COMP: <7 5

aara manan

3039352

DIRECTOR

935878

INFO:

FILE

O cmeo

#

With mET

11l

TO: CARACAS.Y

1,19

WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE Y

TRONT TO TRIES

REFS: A. CARACAS 33398 lIN 0767301

Don: 11. 1001

•B. DIRECTOR 93359

MC (02

C. ' CARACAS ENSTEL 12805, 28 OCTOBER 1976 Y

102NCN

1. DIEGO ARGUEL LES OF REFS A AND B RETRACTED UNDER

LAST NAME ARGUELLO AS RECEIVED REF C. ONE CARD REF FOUND

TO A DIEGO LAZARO ARGUELL O LASTRES, DOB CA. 36, MEMBER OF

CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE IN EXILE, ADDRESS 1785 N.W. 29 STREET, MIAMI.

SPECIAL SEARCH HAS BEEN REQUESTED FOR SOURCE DOCUMENT, UFGA-8043, 8

DATED L2 MARCH 63. WILL ADVISE IF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION LOCATED. Y

2. NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ON MARIA INES VEGA OR PAULA

VALLADARES OF REF CY

3. FILE: 201-300985. E2 IMPDET•N

LA, COMMENT: A. DIEGO ARGUELLES BELIEVED TO BE ASSOCIATE IN

INVESTIGATION FIRM OF LUIS POSADA.

B. NO HQS TRACES ARGUELLES

¿: PRESS REPORTED ARREST OF ARGUELLO, VEGA AND VALLADARES.

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

29 OCTOBER 1976

L. COOLEY:MEH

LA/PNEAV

3335

5/і".

пы, клато отрито

RECORD CUr

около

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITES

30 OUTTG

Brendae

AC/LA/PNE

литня пожатимо октосал

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:007255

459

---

## Page 34

..."

..

21-2

SEC

RET

leNo 119188 891091015

1д%CE CO

ON UNIT

1LA8

FONT

336956

¡STAFF

E8AN7S

PAGE 81

+09 82815152068 76

IN 882793

SJOS

20251

•SECRE T 281502Z OCT TO STAFF

CITE SAN JOSE 20051

TOS. DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO, CAPACAS.

WNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

REFSI A. SANTIAGO 35352 (1N 081609)

8. SAN JOSE 19715 SNOT SENT CARACASI (eN 978488)

1. FOLLOWING COMMENTS RE PARA Z OF REF A ARE BEING

REPEATED FOR CLARIFICATION.

2. PER PARA 1 OF REF B, IT WAS COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL

ODU @ ER QUIROS WHO APPARENTLY CONJURED UP INVOLVEMENT OF

ORLANDO BOSCH IN THE ARMS MOVEMENT STORY DISCUSSED BETWEEN

. COSTAN RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER GONZALO FACIO AND CHILEAN

AMBASSADOR TO COSTA RICA JURGE A RANDA PARRA, "CONFIDENTIAL

FUNCTIONARIES OF THE U,S, EMBASSY" FACTUALLY U.S, AMBASSADOR USING

STATION INFOS WHO ADVISED THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT OF AN ULTRA-

• RIGHTIST PLOT DID NOT REPEAT NOT MENTION THAT BOSCH WAS INVOLVED IN

ANY WAY WITH THIS PLOT, AND STATION HAS NO INFORMATION INDICATING

THAT BOSCH WAS INVOLVED.

3, ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT OF BOSCH WAS APPARENTLY PURE INVENTION

BY PRESIDENT ODUBER AND FOREIGN MINISTER FACIO AND THEY TO:D LUNACIÓN

SECRET

RCOS FILE COP

2-200982

DO NOT, DESTROY

---

## Page 35

"- a3 8.7

•d.e SEL

can eare Disper à.o

11091101'

•PIOR UAIT

N

PARO CAG

STAFF

ensiotr?a

RF. FILE

..?'

IR

336958

E8A875

-n

PAGE 22-02.

TOR+281515₴ OCT 70

IN 082793

SJOS 20051

TO ARANDA POSSIBLY TO STRENGTHEN THEIR GASE SINCE BOSEN TRAVELLED

ON CHILEAN PASSPORT.,

4, FILE: 281-300985. 200-12-20811.

E2 IMPDET.

SE

C

..

RET

---

## Page 36

4-00000

100м 50200

DERSON UNIT NOTINIEO

TOTA: CORES

357 1

RUN B.

SECRET

ISSUING

ADVANCE CODI

ISSUED SLOTTED

ST.ON UNIT

2L78

RF

ACTION a

N

F

8 33 44 68

STAFF

FILE

BDD3, C/NEGH

AGC ODO

POPSITE,

C/CI4

CPSIEE 2

dors.

ASSIS 0€3:

PAGE 21-81

T0R: 2720338 OCT 16

SECRET ZZZOZOZ OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 32254

TOS, DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE

REF: CARACAS 31218

077934

SO PIO ACCORDING,

IKSCARLET-S WHO OBTAINED FROM DIS IP

OFFICER, EVIDENCE WHICH IMPLICATES SUBJECT 201-300985 IN

6 OCTOBER 1976 CUBANA AIRCRAFT BOMBING INCLUDES AIRLINE

BILLING INVOICE SIEZED IN RAID ON ICICA OFFICES IN CARACAS.

BILLING IS TO SCICA FOR AIRLINE TICKETS USED BY HERNAN

RICARDO L OZ AN O DURING BOMBING OPERATION.

2. FILE: 221-8300985, E2. IMPDET.

IN

1 08 18 02

CARA

38258

сом по. 12. 321.

P,13

SECRET

RECORD COPY

LiKSCARLET 3

201-300885

22 Get 16

---

## Page 37

14-00001

PODOFO CONTAINS ANDITIONAL

AND SHOULE RE DEQUESTED

ESTI IOAFILES.

LUIS

SEBCUEL-IDE

XIS

CIT CUBA

075-005-009

CAR1-31174

19 :0T

4VC-07521.

SFS VEVE.

'FIRMER DEFICER GFTPRECTIISATE

SFEVICES

IVTELLIGENCE

AVO

NULISENROO NI NOTINGIGS EBENO ARNEEEND

TH=

10991NG OF CICANA AIRLIVER 6 OCT

70.

TRAVELET

TI COSTA RICA IN SEOT TI MEET WITH

All? ASCH 1201-9290297!.

F70

1015101

WITH

DATE 27 MCT 76.

09÷46116

201-300985:

--....-

-.........

SECRET

.........--

-."

вало споже часнт а30-к9.2500056010400 1-, 0н0 "te.

....

.....

irs

---

## Page 38

14-00000

OUTGÖING MESSAGE

OMP O

SECRET

нагловмакого пожатоя

STAFF

COMP: LA 5

15-1

2623502

DIRECTOR

1M70: FILE

flat, caster, net

933599

торе

TO: CARACAS. Y

WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE Y

REF: CARACAS 34398 lIN 0767301 V

N89 :00

3. NO HAS ATRACES ON DIEGO ARGUELLES. Y

N00 na

2. HAS FILE ON CIVISTA-L INDICATE HE BORN 6 OCUTOBER 3943 IN

CARACAS. HE ATTENDED COLEGIO CARMELITANO DEL NORTE IN SAN ANTONIO

PAMPLONA, COLOMBIA, 1959-3961, HE WAS A PLASTIC WORKER 1962-3965 AND

IN 1966 WAS ACCEPTED AS AGENT/INVESTIGATOR WITH THE JUDICIAL POLICE

(PTJZ. UKSCARLET-I REQUESTED TRAINING FOR CROISTA-6 IN JUNE 3968

IN FLAPS AND SEALS. HOWEVER, FOR SOME UNKNOWN REASON, WKSCARLET-3

LOST INTEREST IN TRAINING CIVISTA-b AND HIS POA WAS CANNECELLED.

LATEST DOCUMENT IN HAS FILE, 6 MARCH 1969, HUCA-36340, STATED THAT

CIVISTA-& HAS NEVER BEEN CONTACTED MBY STATION PERSONNEL NOR HAS

HE BEEN GIVEN BKHERALD TRAINING. Y

3.

FILE: 203-03009865 201-0835823. EZ IMPDET-r

REFERENCE ADVISED THAT THERE NO STATION TRACES ON ALFREDO GUTIERREZ

OR OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ DE LA SERRA TRETISCOFF. IN ADDITION STATION

ADVISED. THAT DIEGO ARGUELLES AND CIVISTA-D ARE BELIEVED TO BE

ASSOCIATES IN INVESTIGATION FIRM OF LUIS POSADA CARRILLES.

201 - 300985

DATE: 26 OCT 76

ORIG: CATHY LEE HARDCOW

2601176

UNIT: LA/PNGSY

EXT:

SLAD

чаять отося

охлестасаткоя

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

В 201 =835921

---

## Page 39

Amir 956 pear

"'USOVINI NOTA:TO

1-19.

38-2

SEGRET ..

REIN WIF

ISSUEO NOTE.

FILE

YAStTT64 0003

10031002

000!D0

т 32.9742

E1A786

WAGE 01

TOR: 2012572 001 26.

STASE

IN 879612

_CARA, 3122°

SECP ET ZS12Z8Z OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31229

DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYEAT MOSPIKE KMSTONE

REFSS A. WASHINGTON 920330

B. CARREAS 91168 (074978)

C. CAREAS 3IZZ4

(078286)

1, WE HAD WIPED RESOLVE QUESTIONS RAISEO BY APPROACH OF

SERGIO DIE QUEZ, OSTENSIBLY ON BEMALE LUIS P OS ADA.

THROUGH DISCUSSIOY WITH POSADA, POSADA IS NO LONGER

ACCESSIBLE.

2. WKNORTH-17 RECENTLY SHOWED STATION OFFICER A CATALOG

OF INTELLIGENCE TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT PRODUCED BY AUDIO INTERNATIONAL

DEVICES SAIDI DE FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, INSIDE THE CATALOG

COVER WAS A SMALL POCKET CONTAINING THE BUSINESS CARD OF SERGIO

DIEGUEZ, REPRESEN"ING AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS, INC..

MIAMI. WKNORTH!? SAID HE HAD GOTTEN THE CATALOG INDIRECTLY AND

THROUGH

THE VERERUELAN NATIONAL GUARD: THAT HE DOES NOT KNOW

DIEGUEZ PERSONALLY. .

3, THE THOUGHT OCCURS THAT DIEGUEZ MAY HAVE BEEN WE

SECRET

CACES FILE COPY FOR

301-360285

---

## Page 40

see romeo

SECRE!

STAFF

DE FILE :

9 329742

PAGE U2-42

IN 079612

TOR: 2612572 00I. 76

_CARA 3:236

SUPPLIER OF PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS EQUIPMENT FOR ¡CICA, POSADA'S

FRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS COMPANY IN CARACAS AND MAY HAVE HAD A

SUSTAINED CONTACT WITH PUSADA FROM WHICH ME OBTAINED INFORMATION

WHICH HE RECOGNIZED AS OF PROBABLE INTEREST TO BKUERALD. SINGE

POSADA MND REVIOUSLY SUPPLIED BKHERALD WITH INFORMATION ON EXILE.

PLANS FOR ASSASSINATION AND SOMBINGO ONE WONDERS IF PERHAPS

DIEGUEZ MAY HAVE HAD INFORMATION OF THIS TYPE FROM POSADA WHICH. IN

ADDITION TO THAT MENTIONED REF A, HE WAS TRYING TO PEDDLE.

DIEGOEZ' APPROACH WAS PRIOR THE 21 SEPTEMBER ASSASSINATION OF

ORLANDO LETELIER AND THE 6 OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF A CUBANA

AIRLINER, SUGGEST HEADQUARTERS MAY WISH TO RECONTACT AND DEBRIEF

DIEGUEZ OR SUGGEST SAME TO LNERGO.

#e TlLE: +26-8484138 281-0382985.

E2. iMPET.

---

## Page 41

14-00000

19r.:183.

-37.4.-

-?::

A pAper

X00 2045€

1 1/0n

S==9::è:957 059 79 3°158

G9:9Ü56 2:389

T0:

CHRON

DIGESTE SNO LONDON.

WRINTE: RYSAT

RER AN- GEORGETON 23356(11071334)

S. SECRGETON EMSTEL 2076 (MC 30242)

1. FOR PAST TEN DAYS ATMUSHHERE SURROUNDING OUR EMBASS

HAS SEBO ONE DE APPREHENSION, REVIENING EVENTSI

Ver

2. ON 1: OCTOBER FORMIN FRED HILLS ISSUED STATEMENT WHISH

REFERRER TO DESTABILIZATIDN IN CONTEXT OF CUJANA GRASM. EMEISSY

WAS

PEACEFULLY PICKETED 13 OCTOVER EY TWO GROUFSO ONE SYSMI WITH

GOVERNMENT APPROVALO THERE FOLLOWED TWO TELEPHONE THREATS TO

EMBASSY 14 OCTOSER.

2800176

SO ON 15 OCTOBER STATE DEPT MADE DEMARCHE TO GUYANESE

CHARGE MALDER OF WHICH KEY PHRASE FOCUSSED UPON

BY GOG WAS THAT

GOS NAS "STRAINING US PATIENCE " EMBASSY DID NOT RECEIVE ACTUAL

TEXT CI DEMARCHE, BUT SECRETARY LEURS, IN TELECON WITH CHARGE

SLiCTENO DENIED THAT PHRASE WAS USED. NEVERTHELESS, THIS

HEIGHTENED BUENHAMOS EMOTIONAL EROODING OVER CRASH AND THERE

FOLLONED BURNNAMOS SPEBON BSEE TEXT RES 59.

NoTE LAsT Page

SE

0-..

---

## Page 42

14-00000

acticatin

DE OSSEN

1a80s digo ago1918=

RETION

1211020

ACTION.

3236E1

SECRET

STARR

FILE

VÁ

18

1d1

18!

io!

IN 877504

GORG

21369

" .

E11606

PAGE 82

T0R:Z21266₴ OCT 76.

C. ON SO OCTOGER BARBADIAN CRICKET TEAM LEFT GUYANA

PREMATURELY, REPORTEDLY AFTER RECEIVING EOME THREAT. ON

19 OSTOGER EOMS SEARONES NEVE CONDUCTED AT BANK OF GUYANA AND

LOCAL AUTO/ELECTRONIES DEALER! GEDDES GRANT.

DO ON HEELS OF BURNMAM SPEECH DIPT ADVISED CHARGE NE TO

BE RECALLED FOR CONSULTATION AFTER DELIVERING US PROTEST. COIN-

CIDENTALLY, HE RECEIVED GOG LETTER REQUESTING CESSATION OF

ONGOING AID PRQJECT DUE AID ALLE ED FAILURE TO FOLLOW APPROVED

PROCEDURE: AND EMSASSY'S UNGLASSIFIED FOUCH HAS DETAINED AT

AIRPORT. "

E. CHERGE DELIVERED ORAL PROTEST TO WILLS EVENING SO OSTOBER

AND WAS LATER CALLED TO MEET WITH GURNHAM.

2, PRIOR NiS DEPARTURE MORNING 22 OCTOGER CHARGE TOLD COS

BURNHAM WAS URAPCLOGETIO OVER SPEECH AND DID NOT REGET TO OUR

PROTEST WHICH WAS MILDER THAN KILLS AND WE EXPECTEDI, BURNHAM

WAS FARTICULIFLY ANGRY AT BARBADIAN POSITION ON CRASH, BLAMING

US FOR THAT FOSITION AS HELL AS FOR SUPPORT. OF CUBAN EXILES WHO

PERPETRATED CRASH. BURNHAM NOW SEEKS VENGENCE THROUGH DEATH OF

SUSPECTS, HE SEENED TO IMPLY THAT USG ASSISTANGE IN BRINGING THEM

TO "JUSTICEN NGULD REESTABLISM DUR CREDIBILITY, RASALTAS CONFIRMED

S'ECA..

---

## Page 43

14400000

.

"°a.19rР.

5:488

FiLt

139D80

323489

PAÑE R3

1078222242206976

IN E275C4

GORE 21389

THIS AS GUANTAMOS VIEW.

•ZO AFTER ELENHAMOS SUNDRY SFEECH NETHER RASALTAS PROBS NOR

MATRGJANAS STABI WERE AVAILABLE, APPARENTLY DUE TO HEIGATENED 60G

MEETING ACTIVITY, AFTER MISSING 16 DETURER, CONTAGTO ROS SHECKED

IN MORNING ZE OCTOBER, MEETING SET FUR SAME NIGHT. ON VOSE LINK

AXE COMMENTED THAT CRASH GAVE RISE TO GREAT DEAL OF EMOTION WHICH

FOR BURNHAN NAS VERY STRONGLY REINFORDED EY DISCOVERY OF JOE LEO'S

NAME IN SUSPECT'S DIARY. FUR BURNHAM THIS INDICATED à PRESENT USG

ASSOCiATION WITH SUSPECTS EVEN IF WE WERE NOT INVOLVED IN AIR CRASH.

RIS SAID THAT IN MEETINGS PRIOR

TO BURBHAM'S SPEECH FORMIN WILLS

WAS NOT ANXIOUS FOR CONFRONTETION HITH US. HOWEVER. IN HIS AND

WILLS' ATTEMPTS TU DISCUSS BURNMAM'S SPEECH APPROACH, BURNHAM

WOULD NOI COMMIT HIMSELF AS TO HOW FAR HE NOULD GO. RAS THINKS THAT

BURNHAM WENT JUST, AS FAR AS HE INTENDED, AND HAS EVEN SOMEWHAT

RESTHAINED EMOTIONALLY. EXPECT MORE DETAIL IN DEBRIEFING RA3;

PARTICULARLY ON WILLS' ROLE DURING THIS CRISIS, AND CUBAN OR OTHER

ROLES IF ANY. GNCOIN ALSO ATTEMPTING CONTAST TAS FOR READING ON

SITUATION.

GO WE HAVE SEEN NO MEASUTABLE CHANGE IN

GPERATIONAL CLIMATE AS.

YET. HILLS TOLD CHARGE THAT PERA 1 POUCH AND AID-LETTER INEIDENTS

-SECRET

---

## Page 44

л....

Годи 8ітE

1.0, 808g 8 09

CAR-E SEC

DIBBEND

DIDBO^ UNO S59101EE

12.000 on.

1504, 0900!

.. 1

ISTAFT

RF .

FILE

VR

1s1

ACTION •

9323489

PADE d&• PA

T89:22:2453 0E8 76

IN 877504

GORG 21369

HERE DUE TO EGINSIDENGE, AS ¡MERE iS NO GOVERNKENT PLANS TO HARASS

US. ME ALSO FROMISED INCREASES MUSGILANGEM DA BEHIS US MISSION

PERSONNELO ALTHOUGH HE NAS NOi SPECIFICA RAS REQUESTED FASELTO

FACE MEETINS SAYINO THAT HE SEES NU CHANGE IN SEUSRITY SITUATION, '!

STATON WILL CONTINUE HITH SENEDULED MEETING ARRANGEMENTS, SARRING

CHANGE FOR HORSE, IN THIS CONTEXT DES CLIMATE COULD DETERIORATE

IF ANY PLIUSIBLE EVIDENCE IS DIVULGED LINKING USG OR ENHERALD

DIRECTLY TO GUSANd SOME SUSSECTS. RIGHTLY OR WRONGLY THIS WOULD

PROBABLY SERVE AS CONFIRMATION OF GURUMAM'S FARANGLE SUSPICIONS OF

US• CANNOi FREDiCI NATURE OF HIS REACTION. HONEVER. MOS SHOULD

BE AHARE THAT ONE OF ARRESTEES IN CARACAS, LUIS POSADA

CARRILES, NAS FORMERLY HANDLES SY GAORIEL D. LISRENE CIRCA 1972.

SO PILES DEFER. EZ SMODET.

9Lo HaZE L 114000

---

## Page 45

14-00001

.iw.?

ti..="=:

SEEPER H

1•000u

ESSEEEDS2-D0NCE NSE 16200

5985 F

1 172

5.54, 20/562, 014, %ars,-

TOR: 2216512 001 76

8N877928

CARA

31221

SECRET T CET CET.26 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31218

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR:

WNINTEL KMSTONE MÜSPIKE

REFI CARACAS 31288 (N069108)

1, DURING ZZOCTOGER MEETING WITH WKNORTH-17. HE

PLACED TELEPHONE CALL TO OFFICE OF WKNOSLE-24 AND PRSONALLY

VERIFIED IHAT ORLANDO GARCIA HAD NOT BEEN AFRESTED.

IT OFINION OF ÜKNORTH-17 THAT PRESS ALLEGATION IS

RE SUL?

OF CONFUSION NAME ORLANDO GARCIA WITH ORLANDO B OSCH.

ÜKNORTH-17 ALSO SAID HE HAS NO INFORMATION THAT FRANCISCO

NUN EZ HAS OR HAS HAD IN THE PAST ANY CONNECTION WITH

VENEZUELAN "SECRET POLICE".

2. WKNORTH-17 HAD TIME ONLY SRIEFLY TO DISCUSS

COMBING CASE: INFO BEING FORWARDED BY HUC, CONGERNING THE

PRESS ALLEGATICA THAT RASADAUS "FORTIFIED RESIDENCE" HAD

BEEN SEARCHED , WKNORTH-17 SAID THIS WAS UNTURE AND ONLY

THE ICICA OFFICE HAD BEEN RAIDED. WKNORTH-1T ADDED THAT

SOME ITEMS OF BOMB PARAPHERNALIA FOOND IN THE ICICA OFFICES

WERE CONSIDERED EVIDENCE IMPLICATING POSADA IN THE S SCIOSES

SECRET

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

201-300282-

DO PEE DESTROY

---

## Page 46

IFOROOUETIO

SSUING

SECRET

I SÜAFF

SE: 1: 512011:

FILE

IR

15=5.

324284

E1 A5 65

PAGE S2-02

IOR:2216512 00T 76

1 N 877924

ARA 1Z11

DOWNING OF THE CUSANA AIRCRAFT.

3. EILE: 281-6676681 201-E3CD985, EZ. DUPDET:

---

## Page 47

14-00000

9-718050 898

CABIR SEE DISSIM DI

P. scalll

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

AF .

FILE

i2-L

SECRE!

180,5

Sielan

ISSUINO OFFICE IS

STA RECEDENSE

LLAS

ArtION o

N

8 321823

ELA429

PAGE 01

IORI 2118012 001 76

IN 076710

CARA

31198

SECRET 211718Z OCT T6 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31198

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

RYBAT WNINTEL REAM MISPIKE

REFS DIRECTOR 930282

1, NO STATION TRACES ALFREDO GUTIERREZ OR OLEG GUETON

RODRIGUEZ DE LA SERRA PREFISCOFF.

2, POSADA ASSOCITES IN INVESTIGATIVE FIRM ARE BELIEVED

BE DIEGO ARGUELLES INO STATION TRACESS AND CIVISTA-O! THE LATTER

MAY HAVE HAD HIS INTEREST IN THE FIRM PURCHASED BY POSADA AND

ARGUELLES A FEW MONTHS AGO, NKSCARLET-1 HAS BEEN ALLEGED BY

WKNORTH TO DE A PARTNER OF POSADA IN THE FEM BUT WE HAVE NO

INFORMATION TO SUBSTANTIATE THIS, POSADA DID TELL STATION THAT

HIS FIRM HAD DONE WORK FOR MNSCARLET-1 AS A CLIENT. THE ALLEGED

PARTNERSHIP CONNECTION WOULD BE VALUABLE FACT IN ANY GOV EFFORT

SHOW CONNECTION OF POSADA ACTIVITIES WITH COPES, STATION HAS NO

RECENT INFORMATION ON CIVISTA-S , WE ARE AS YET UNABLE TO

IDENTIFY THE 11 OTHER PERSONS CONNECTED WITH ICICA BUT • IR THIS FIGURE

CORRECT, SUSPECT THAT FREDEY LUGO AND RICARDO HERNAN LOZANO MAY FIGURE

AMONG THE ELEVEN.

21Cct76

221-300485

---

## Page 48

4-00000

IAme.de 01490140+

14.1 WA 10918 AHATION 1S

114.

1111A1

SE

RET

i.

RF . FILE

8 32102}

ELAA20

PAGE 02-02

TORI 2118012 OCT 26

FILES

281-0388985, EZ. IMPDET.

100ry 110

-.+...

STASE

IN

076710

CARA

31198

---

## Page 49

P. 9, 8200 8-90

CABLE SEE DISSEN AI

BER.

1020. 005-3

S G ET

ADVANCE OR BICOLORO CLARA TES. MES

RF

PE-ACOUCTION OT OTHER TMAN

OFFEN I8

MOMIDITIO

STAR FROLIENTE

31 7069

EL A647

PAGE 01

TORI 2013592 00T 76

IN 07&978

CARA 31186

SECR

92213227

DCT

78 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31186

TO! IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT MUSPIKE KMSTONE

REFSI A, DIRECTOR 930Z4E

B. DIRECTOR 875121

C. WASHINGTON 920338

1, THE AGENCY HAS HAD NO, REPEAT NO. RELATIONSHIP HITH

LUISPOSAD AIS INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY OR ANY OTHER

BUSINESS VENTURE HE MAY HAVE HAD IN CARACAS.

2. DECISION

TO TERMINATE RELATIONSHIP WITH POSADA WAS

TAKEN IN EARLY 1974, ALMOST TWO YEARS PRIOR HOS FORMAL

TERMINATION ON 13 FEBRUARY 1976. OUR ONLY REASON FOR CONS

TINUING THE CONTACT BEYOND DATE OF THAT DECISION IN 1974

WAS TO RESOLVE CERTAIN OUTSTANDING FEDERAL COVERT INCOME

* IS

TAX MATTERS, AND WE TRIED TO KEEP THESE SESSIONS AS

INFREQUENT ASPOSSIBLE, AS SOON AS TAX SITUATION WAS

LERENCEK

SATISFACTORILY RESOLVED, NE PRECEEDED WITH FORMAL TERMINATION.

SESSION IN FEBRUARY 1976; BECAUSE POSADA HAD HIGH LOCAL

PROFILE, WE HAD NO REALLY COVERT MEANS TO CONTACT HIM AND

SECRET

291-300985°

2 ACt76

RECORD CUPT

---

## Page 50

4-00000

00U NY

CABLE BRE D'ASEN

PERSON UNIT NOTXIES

ALLANCE SOCI ISSUES SLOTES

ACTION UNIT

ACTION.

"ORAL COOLE

SECRET

MER TH

SUING CPRICE iS PROMIeNT

STAFF

FILE.

VR

317068

EL1649

PAGE 02

_TOR: ZE13592 OCT 76

WE WAITED FOR HIS PERIODIC, NON-SCHEDULED CALL-INS TO

RECEIVE AND CONVEY ANY NEWS CONCERNING TAX MATTERS.

3, CONTACTS WITH STATION SUBSEQUENT TO FORMAL

TERMINATION SESSION WERE AT POSADA OWN INITIATIVE AND WERE

FOR PURPOSE VOLUNTEERING INFORMATION ON SIGNIFICANT EXILE

EXTREMISE PLANSO TO SOLICIT AND FOR RETENTION OF HIS RESIDENI

ALIEN STATUS AND FOR HELP IN OBTAINING U.S, VISITORS VISAS

FOR SELF AND FAMILY, POSADA WAS NOT TASKED TO PROVIDE

INFORMATION BEYOND SPECIFICS OF EXTREMIST PLANNING WHICH HE

HAD REPORTED ON OWN INITIATIVE.

4, POSADA RECONTACTED THE CARACAS STATION ALMOST

IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING HIS FORMAL TERMINATION TO VOLUNTEER.

REPORT ON WNEREABOUTS OF ORLANDO BOS CH AVILA, FRANK

CASTRO AND THE THREAT TO LIFE OF SALVADOR ALL ENDE'S

NEPHEW, ME WAS CONTACTED A DAY ER SO LATER 119 FEBRUARY 1916)

BY STATION BUENOS AIRES TO DEBRIEF FOR ANY POSSIBLE INFORMATION

CONCERNING SECURITY OF SECRETARY KISSINGER VISIT; AT THIS

TIME POSADA WAS TRAVELLING WITH FORMER DISIP CHIEF REMBERTO

UZCATEGU! CHIS CLIENTS AND INVESTIGATING THE

AUTHORSHIP OF A LETTER BOMB SENT TO CUBAN AMBASSADOR IN

SES-RET.

•IN 074978

CARA

31186

:

---

## Page 51

14-00000

0oм 194t

P. 911000 8 97

"ADLE SEE O'SSEN DI

#FABOS UNIT NOTED

*C'A SPEES

SECRET

ASIANCE COPI

ACTION URIT

1S.T3.SL0NES

RF. FILE

STAFF

VA

ACTION •

т 317609

EL A647

PAGE D3

TOR: 2013592 OCT 76

IN 07.4978

CARÀ 31186

CARACASI THE BOMB ENVELOPE BORE RETURN ADDRESS OF WE AL THY

VENEZUELAN INDUSTRIALIST GUSTAVO V O L ME R WHOEMPLOYS UZCATEGUS AS.

SECURITY ADVISTOR, FOLLOWING HIS TETURN TO CARACAS

FROM THIS TRIP POSADA CONTACTED THE STATION AND SAID

SOMEWHAT ACCUSINGLY THAT ME HAD VERY NEARLY DEEN IRREDEEMABLY

COMPROMISED WITH THE EXILE EXTREMEISTS WHEN BOSCH WAS ARRESTED IN

SAN JOSE AND THE INFORMATION CONCERNING THE THREAT TO ALLENDE'S

NEPHEW WAS LEAKED.

5. ON 22 JUNE 1976 POSADA AGAIN CONTACTED THE STATION.

REPORTED INFO TDFIRDB-315/06286178 CONCERNING POSSIBLE EXILE

PLANS TO BLOW UP A CUBANA AIRLINER LEAVING

°, PANAMA, AND REQUESTED

VISA ÁSSISTANCE REPORTED CARACAS

138169. THE LAST CARACAS STATION

CONTACT WITH POSADA WAS A FEW DAYS LATER TO COUNSEL HIM PER REF 8,

AN UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT WAS MADE TO CONTACT POSADA ON I OCTOBER

1976 IN CONNECTION REF Ci

B, THE STATION HAS NO REASON TO BELIEVE THAT THE SOURCE OF

TDF1RD8-315/:0256 DELIBERATELY DELAYED PASSING ON BOSCH'S AND

POSADA'S REMARKS ABQUT HITTING A CUBAN PLAN UNTIL AFTER THE

INCIDENT, WHEN POSADA MADE THE STATEMENTS TO THE SUBSOURCE HE

WAS NOT SPECIFIC AS TO ANY TIME OR PLACE FOR THE INCIDENT. WHEN

SECRET.

fire date is number

furnished upos Request.

301-300485°

---

## Page 52

4-00000

CABLE SEC EISSEY 8

PERSON INIO NOTIFIES

ADIANCE: COPI

ACTION UNIT

SSUED SLOTTER

RE. FILE

•C'AL COPIES

SECRET

RUN ME

THAN

PROMIBITED

SQUING

STAFF

VR

ACTION O

т 317069

E1A647

PAGE E4-D4

TOR: 201359Z OCT 26

THE SUBSOURCE REPORTED THIS INFORMATION TO THE SOURCE, THE

SUESOURCE HAD NO REASON TO BELIEVE TWE INFORMATION WOULD BE

PAISED ON BY THE SOURGE TO AGENCY AS HE IS UNWITTING OF THE

SOURCE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AGENCY.

7.

F16E: 201-8300985, EZ, IMPDET.

IN 074978

CARA

31186

---

## Page 53

14-00000

5, 1.

faces

TE CAAGE: P119Ạ

ТО: ПРОЙТЕ ЛІРЕСТОР.

MINITEL PYFAT SUSPISE AM: TILF.

REEE: Н. MINS 930240

BIFECTOR 875161

C.

LPSHINOTON 920320

THE PENCS MAS HHO iN. FEPEAT NO: FELATIONSHIS WITH

2.

DECISION TO TEPMITATE FELATIONSHIP WITH POSAFA WAS

TRYEN IN EAFLY 1074. ALMDIT THU TERNS PRIOR HOS BORMAL

FEERUAFY 1076.

DUP CHLY PERSON FON CON-

TINUING THE CUMMINT BEYOND

TETFU THAT CECISION IN 1ỢTA

UPS TO FESOLVE CARTRIN

DUTETANDING FEDEPHL COVERT INCOME

TAX MATTER:• AND ME TRIED TH YEEP THESE SESSIONS AS

INFEFONENT

HEFOSSILE.

HE COON AS TAX SITUATION

WAS

SATTGFACTOSILD -ESOLVED. IT ITCCCERED WITH FORADE TENMINNTIUN

SESSION IN FERUARY 1976.

FROFILE. WE HAD NO REALLY COVERT MERNS TO CONTAOT WIN AND

HE WHITED FUS HIS FEETONICO NON-SCHEDULES CALL-INS TO

FECEIVE PID CONVEY ANY NAME CONCERHING TAX MATTERS.

CONTACTS WITH STATION SUFSEQUENT TO FORMAL

TEPMINATION SESSION WERE AT FOSADA DUN INITIATIYE AND WERE

FOP PUPFOSE VOLUNTEEPING IRFOFMATION ON SIGNIFICANT EXILE

EXTFEMIST FLANS• TO SOLILIS MID FOR FETCTION OF HIS FESINENT

AND FOR HELP IN DETAINING U.S. VISITORS VISAS

FOCANA HAS NOT TASKED TO PROVIDE

TOFIEMATIOM DEYOND SPECIFICE OF ENTRGNIST PLANNING WHICH HE

HAD PEPOPTED ON DUN IMITATIVE.

POSADA PECONTACTED THE CAPRCAS STATION ALMOST

IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING HI: FOOMAL TEFMINATION TO VOLUNTEER

---

## Page 54

Leiit:

1111

FENT

TO TUFA"

• 1?

-991

INIE

CHISE FEMIESTO

itia

MAPLISON

IN

...

3:1F:

Vitarlin

CUTITI

: TOF.

F/0HMG 415

TETURN 12

RENUE!

THE

10151498

!'"

FEEN TOFEIEMAFLY

MYTH

THE FAILE ENTPENSINTE NEEN

ROSCH.UPE FUGESTED IN

THE INFOFSMTION COHELFMIME THE THPERT TO ALLENIE'S

METHEN 4A?

LEANED.

5.

ON 29

•WE 19TE FUSION AGRIN CONTRITEN THE STATION.

TIF PUF-315-GEOG.%6 CONGEFING FOSSILE EXILE

TO

FLOL UP A CUFFIN MELINES LCAVING FANAMA. AND FEONFETEO

THE LAET PAPREER -TETLON

MR mEETSFUL MITSHVI WAS MAJE TO CONTACT POSMOR ON 7 OCTOGET

TETO D GORMEUTION FEF C.

STATION HAS NO PERSON TO FELIENE THAT THE SOUPCE OF

TIFIFDR-315/10GG6 IFLIBCFATELY DELAYS! PASSING ON COSCHS FAC

MOTIME GELANK: HAOH! MITTING A RUDEN GLEN LOTTI DETER THE

LiHEN POSADA MADE THE STATEMENTE TO THE SUESDUREE HE

SRECIFIR AD TO PUT TIME DE PLACE FOR THE INCIDENT. WHEN

SUESOUFCE HAN NO PFACON TO FELTETE TUE INFORNETINN MOLLI TE

CHRY THE SOURCE TO AGENCY HE HE IS UNHITTING OF THE

SOUPCE'S FELATIONSHIP MITH THE MGENOY.

?

S E

FILE: 201-0300925. EZ, IMPDET.

---

## Page 55

OPECATIONS CENTER

101N'70

LOX MESSAGE RECEIPT

1NI30

FRON:

Raymond d. Narren, Chiel, Latin Merica Division, *7763

Data for Inclusion in Draft Memorandun to Sacretary of State

'CONTACLS

SECRET

WUVUER OF

PAGES

two

Dept of State

or tras ro

Mr.

Francis DeTarr

ITR/DDC/OPS

EVENSICS

22285

ROOM NUMBER

6635

REVARKS

f094 3524

W'KSCARLET-3

---

## Page 56

GOONS I

20 October

1976

SUBJECT:

Dil tit

for Inclusion in Draft Memorandum

To Sucretary of

state

REFERENCE: 1.04-0714, 19 Detober 1976

1. In response to the queries

posed in the

Reference, there follows belon

amplification of information

concerning Luis Pesada.

2. The Agency has had no relationship with luis

POSADA's Investigative Agency or any other business venture

he may have had in Caracas.

3. The decision to terrinate the relationship with

Posadi was taken

in carly 1974.

Our only reason for

continuing the contact beyond date of that decision in 1974

was to resolve certain outstanding federal income tax mat-

ters,

and we tried to kegp these sessions as infrequent

as possible.

Bccause Fosada had : high local profile,

sinited

for his periodic non-scheduled call-ins to reccive

and

convey any news concerning tax matters.

4.

Contasts with him subsequent to February 1976

were at Posada's own initiative (excopt as indicated below)

and were for the purpose of volunteering information on

significant exile extremist plans, to sclicit aid foi ie-

tention of his resident alien status, and for help in

obtaining U.S. visitors visas for self and family.

Posada

was

not tasked to provide information beyond specifics of

extremist planning which he had reported on own initiative.

Posada recontacted the Caracas Station in mid-

February 1976 to voluntcer a report on the whereabouts of

Orlando BOSCH Avila,

Frank CASTRO. and the threat to

Tie or salvador ALLINDE's rephew.

he was contacted a day

later dy Station Buenos

Aires to debrief him on any

information concerning the security of Secretary

Kissinger's visit.

At this time Posada was travelling with

DISIP Chief Remberto UZCATFGUI (his client) and

investigating the authorship of a letter bomb sent to Cuhan

Ambassador in Caracas.

WARKINS HUNGE

SERSITIVE LARICE SOURC

NO MESMERS Movivio

SECRET

-100-99?

---

## Page 57

6. On ?2 June 1976 Posala again contacted the

station and requested visa assistance, for his life and

himself.

The Caraces station has no reason to holidic

that the source of TDFIRDB-:15/10256 doliberately delayed

on Bosch's and losada's romarts about hitting:

Cuban plane until aiter the incident.

the statements to the subsource he las not specific as

to any time or place for the incident. When the subsource.

reporecd this intormation to thie source, the subsource

lad no ronson to beliere the information would be passed

on by the

source to this Agenc! as he is unwitting of the

source's relationship with the Agency.

SECRE?'

---

## Page 58

14-00000

Fraveno de: Tarin

. 102/010/085

20 October

1976

hirle for Inclusion in Draft Memorandum

To secretary of State

REFEBENCE: L0X-0714, 19 Ostober 1976

1. In response to the queries posed in the

Reference,

there follows below

concerning Luis Posada.

amplification of information

The Agency has had no relationship with Lui!

rosand's Investigative Agency

or any other

usiness venture

i. he may have had in Caracas.

3. The decision to terminate the relationship with

Porada was talion in carly 1974.

Our only reason

the contact beyond

date of that decision in 1971

nas lo resolve certain outstanding federal income tax mat-

lors, and de tried

to licep these sessions as infrequent

as possible.

Because Fosada had a high local profile, se

valieu for his periodic non-scheduled call-ins to reccive

and convey any news concerning tax matters.

Contaots with his subsequent to February 1976

WITe at Posada's

own initiative (excopt as

indicated below)

and vere for the purpose of volunteering information on

significant exile extremist plans,

to solicit aid for ve-

toniion of his resident alien

ind for help in

obtairing U.S. visitors visas for self and family.

was not tasked to provide information beyond specifics of

extremist planning which he had reported on.oun initiative.

Posada recontacted the Caracas Station in mid-

February 1976 to volunteer a report on the whereabouts of

Orlando BOSCH Avila, Frank CASTRO: and the threat to tha

¡¡íe of salvador ALLENDE's nephel.

He was contacted a day

or so laier by Station Buenos Aires to debrice him on any

possible information concerning the security of Secretary

At this time Posada nas travelling with

DISIl Chief Remberto VICATEGUI (his client) and

investigating the authorship of a letter bomb sent to cuhan

Ambassador in Caracas.

SECRET

---

## Page 59

4-00000

"..

.-:..

0?2 dune 1076 Posida Menin Contactoo Chie

seation

hitsell.

i. The Caracas storion has no reason to believo

that the source of thrilla 315/10256 deliberately delayed

passing on bosch's and losida's resaris about hitting

Cuban plane until after the incident.

then rosado made

the starchones to the subsource he nas not sprcific as

to any sine or place for the incident. Mien the subsource

reported this intornation lo the source, the subsourco

had no reason to beliere the information

be passed

on by the source to this Agency as he is unwitting of the

source's relationship with the Agency.

SECRET

---

## Page 60

State Department Cable

20 October 1976

Classification:

Confidential

OMANG QUERY ABOUT POSADA

STATE 259140

---

## Page 61

OUTGOING - "'ESSAGE

32"

OMP

SECRET

STAFF

3922537-

DIRECTOR

930240

DIssem or, a8

COMe: C/LAS mro: mE é/eP)AOS;

C/NEG,

0003, ово/00,

•ACCIDDO

clopslitey,

TOS IMMEATE CARACASS,

c/Ps/EGa, ClOPS/INT

O on

.

NIACT RYBAT UNINTEL KHSTONE MHSPIKE !!

3. DEPARTHENT OF STATE HAS LEVIED BELOW REQUIREMENTS OM US

FOR USE IN BRIEFING OF DR. KISSINGER. WOULD APPRECIATE STATION.

RESPONSE ÀS EARLY AS POSSIBLE MORNING 20 OCTOBER. WE RECOGNIZE THAT

SOME OF INFO ALREADY AVAILABLE HERE, BUT WOULD LIKE DEFINITIVE

STATEMENTS BY STATION ON BELOW QUESTIONSI. Y ..

2. HAS THE AGENCY HAD ANY RELATIONSHIP WITH LUIS POSADA'S

INVESTIGATIVF AGENCY OR ANY OTHER BUSINESS HE MAY HAVE HADR Y

3. WHAT WAS THE NATURE OF THE CONTACTS THE AGENCY HAD WITH

POSADA AFTER HE WAS TERMINATED WHAT DID THE CONTACTS HAVE TO DO

WITH CUBAS Y

4. WHO WAS THE VISA FOR THAT POSADA APPROACHED THE AGENCY,

94

70:773

AND THE DEFENSE ATTACHE ABOUT IN JUNE 19768 Y

9101 t

.4l01

S. DOES THE AGENCY BELIEVE THAT THE SOURCE OF TDFIRDB-365/10256

DELIBERATELY DELAYED PASSING ON BOSCH'S AND POSADA'S REMARKS ABOUT

1141

HITTING A CUBAN PLANE UNTIL AFTER THE INCIDENTP • Y

bi FILE DEFER. EZ, IMPDET.

ELE CREVIE

WAYNE

CARLEY:LH

LAPOPS

1244

Lestener

LA/COMMENT: CONCERNING CUBANA

PLANE CRASH NEAR BARBADOS

→ OCTOBER.

RECORD COPY

201-300985-

s. Rome

CILALOPS

соототятно отисето

REPAODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO

SECRET

---

## Page 62

-.

tore sung: 55-5

SECRET

HING OFE

ISTA RECEDENCE

6029.

19049190-.

UMIT

RF

FILE

LIPAD CINCE.

315150

1GC/000, 0D0 3, COSGiC/SAZ, C/CI

PAGE

01

TOR11922432.000 76

CARA 38188

SECRET 1920542 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31180

TOX

PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE MHSPIKE

REFSI

A, DIRECTOR 929163

0. HASHINGTON 920330

C. CARACAS 31137 (IN 67064D)

1. WE SHARE HEADQUARTERS CONCERN RE ARREST OF

WESCARLETO3 CHOU AND POSSIBILITY OF SUSPICIONADDITIONAL

CHARGES OKHERALD CONNECTION WITH BOMBING. IN ADDITION TO

INTFL REPORTING, STATION CONTINUOUSLY ASSESSING EVENTS IN

RELATION TO MOST RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND WE ARE IN CLOSE

COORDINATION WITH AMBASSADOR, WE ARE UNABLE TO REPORT ANY

FIRST-HANO INFORMATION FROM W-J OR WATANGO-1 (W-I) DUE TO

LIMITATIONS ESTABLISHED BY AMBASSADOR. PRIOR TO BOMBING

• INCIDENT BRADSPIES ATTEMPTED TO CONTACT HOI, REGARDING APPARENTLY

UNRELATED MATTER IN REF BU AFTER INCIDENT AND INITIAL

REPORT FROM HASCARLET-S FROM WKSCARLET-3. ATTEMPYS TO

CONTACT W-3 WERE STOPPED AND

LATER WERE PROHIBITED BY

AMBASSADOR, AS HOL NAME BEGAN COMING UP WITH INGREASING

CROSS FiLE COPY FOR

SEGRE!

201-360925

DO NOT DESTIN

---

## Page 63

вʼячене зіт

LABLE SEC DISSEM DY

"EASONNAIT NOTIDITO

ADVANCE CODY ISSULD SLOTTED

ACTION USIT

RF

N

ACTION O

т 315150

PER

TO191.50012---=

SEC. REI

SOODUCTION PROMIS

SSUING

STAFF

FILE

vR.

ELA7A1

PAGE B2

70 R81022432 001 76

IN 074149

CARA

----

31.101

FREQUENGY, AMBASSADOR REQUESTED STATION PULL BACK IN LIAISON

CONTACT ITHIS APPLIED ONLY TO WOL PERSONAL CONTACT

AND NOT TO HASCARLET LIAISON IN GENERALS.

2. AS YET STATION HAS NO MARD EVIDENCE WHICH DIRECTLY

• LINES GITHER NOLI DO RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE TO THE

6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING. HOWEVER, THEIR REPORTED ASSOCIATION

WITH ORLANDO

BOS CP AVILA, THEIR BACKGROUNDS, AND WES'S

PRIOR REPORTING ON TERRORIST

ACTIONS SUGGEST THAT THEY WERE

ALLi AHARE TO ONE DEGREE OR ANOTHER OF PLANS FOR THE 6 OCTOBER

ACTION AND THAT NONE OF IHEM ACTIVELY OPPOSED IT OF THE

THREE WO3 SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN MOST LIKELY IMPLICATED THROUGH

HIS POSSIBLE ASSISTANCE TO HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO ANDIOR

FREDDY LUGO, WOL AND MORALES MAY HAVE BECOME ACCESSORIES-

AFTER-THE-FACT DEPENDING UPON THE POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF

ORLANDO BOSCH IN THE BOMBING AND ITS AFTERMATH.

3, IT MAY BE WISHFUL THINKING BUT DO NOT FEEL THAT

HOS IS IN POSITION REVEAL ANY TRUE INFORMATION WHICH COULG

IMPLICATE ANY OF HIS SEVERAL EMBASSY CONTACTS, SINCE CONTAGI

WITH MIM IN RECENT YEARS HAS BEEN TO OUR KNOWLEDGE LIMITED DAYTO

VISA ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION

SE

R

E

..:

---

## Page 64

1400000

P. 90 0050 8.09

CABLE SEE DISSEN DO

"EASONIANS NOTION:

10401-1519983-

SECREI

isoo crie

DÉFICE 1S

ANAN'E COPY 195190. 3107700_:

ArTION UNIT

RF . FILE.

STAFF

.VR

•ACHIN O

31 51 50

EL A7 41

PAGE 83

TOR: 1922432 OCT 76

IN 87 41 49

CARA

31188

REPORTING. HE COULD AT MOST REVEAL NAMES AND TÉLPHONE.

NUMBERS. WKSCARLET-5 EXPRESSED PERSONAL OPINION PHAT WO3.

FEARING POSSIBLE RETRISUTION FROM ORLANDO BOSCH, WOULD NOT

DARE FIX BLAME ON BOSCH AND MIGHT, UNDER INTERROGATION

PRESSURE • ATTEMPT TO IMPLICATE BKHERALD AS HIS SPONSORE

WE

FEEL THIS POSSIBILITY IS RATHER REMOTE.

A. HASCARLET-9 APPEARS NOT TO GE INVOLVED IN PHE

ABOVE BUT HIS CUBAN BACKGROUND AND CLOSE ASSOCIATION WITH

Wo 1, ESPECIALLY IN RECENT WEEKS, UNDOUBTEDLY HAS BROUGHT

HIM SOME NOTICE AND PROBABLY SUSPICION. WKSCARLEY -9 MAS

NOT BEEN MET SINCE HE MISSED A MEETING IN LATE SPETEMBER

.

HE CALLED IN THE NEXT DAY TO SAY THAT HE WAS NOT AZLE TO

MAKE IT. HE SUBSEGUENTLY CALLED HIS CASE OFFICEROS MOME ONCE WHILE

HE WAS OUT BUT HAS NOT CALLED BACK TO SPECIFY A IIYE FOB THE

NEXT MEETINGS HE ALSO HAS NOT DEEPONDED TO THREE RESENT

RS-708 SIGNALS SO-CALL IN AND ONE TO MAKE AN EMERGENCY

-MEETING ON THE NIGHT OF 8 OCTOBER, STATION HAS DECIDED

AGAINST CALLING HIM DURING THIS CURRENT TENSE PERIOD AT

NIS ONLY REACHABLE NUMBER--HIS AND KNOBLE-L'S HOME. WE

WILL CONTINUE SIGNALLING AND AWAITING HIS CALL IN: FYI:

SECRET

---

## Page 65

8.91 MEO,8199

IPAL COPIES

SEC.REI

PRODUCTION BY OTHER TA

SUING OFFICE IS PROMIBIT

"EASON UNIT MORIAIRO

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED'BLOTIED

ACTIÓN UNIT

ST AFF

AY

AF. FILE

VR

ACTION!

8 395150

•EIA741

PAGE DA

TOR: 1922432 OCT 26

WITH WKSCARLET-D'S NEW POST IN HASCARLET GOES A

ROUND-THE-CLOCK ARMED ESCORT WHICH HE HAS TO RID HIMSELF OF

BEFORE MAKING A CLANDESTINE MEETING WITH HIS CASE OFFICERS

WKSCARLETOD HAS EXPRESSED CONCERN OVER THE SECURITY. PROBLEMS.

OF MEETINGS IN HIS CURRENT SITUATION, ESPECIALLY SINCE HE HAS

MANY ENEMIES INO OR UNTIL RECENTLY IN. WKSCARLET WHO WOULD

LOVE TO TAR HIM WITH THE BKHEPALD BRUSH.

SOMEONE WITH HIS

CUBAN BACKGROUND. OF COURSE, IS ESPECIALLY VULNERABLE TO THIS

CHERGE IN THE ATMOSPHERE OF THE CURRENT FUROR ABOUT EXILES IN

VENEZUELA, WILL ADVISE AS SOON AS WKSCARLET-9 RECONTACT IS

ESTABLISHED.

5, STATION FILES CONTAIN NO TRACES TO OLEG GUETON

RODRIGUEZ OR CELSA TOLEDO, STATION MUS ONE TRAÇE TO FRANCISCO

NUNEZA A CUBAN EXILE AND FORMER NAVY OFFICER EMPLOYED BY

ZULDAGA AND MACHADO GROUPS, INFO APPEARS IN CONTACT

REPORTS DATED 6 AND 8 JUNE 196%, FILED IN AMEMBER-I FILE

WHICH NO LONGER AVAILABLE IN STATION, THERE IS ANOTHER TRACE

THAT ONE FRANCISCO E, NUNEZ REPORTED A CASTRO ASSASSINATION

ATTEMPT TO A STATION ASSETI

UFAA-4322, 7 APR 72: 100-009-011.

PROBABLY THE SAME FRANCISCO E. NUNEZ WAS LISTED IN HUCA -8538.

SECRET

IN. 074219

CARA

- -- ... ...

• 31181

---

## Page 66

4-00000

1.912000.8-70

19291. 29.95

SE C

RE_?

TunN

STAFF

MINANCE SOP!

Ar, TION UMIT

19N93101.0.

RF, FI.E

VA

т 315150

E1 A7 41

FAGE 05-05

TOR: 1922433.001 76

23 AUGUST 1961, AS GENERAL DIRECTOR OF THE COMPANY AISLA.

C.A. AND IDENTIFIED AS HAVING FURNISHED A LEAD

TO A CUBAN VICE CONSUL WHO WAS PLANNING TO DEFECT;

.8. FILE!

208-6-484/31

221-03029851

201-02859238

201-8067360.

EZ IMPDET.

IN 074249

CARA_ 31.184

SECRET

---

## Page 67

0000

1.

State Department Cable

Date:

ly October 1976

Classification:

Confidential

CARACAS 12401

SUBJECT:

Press Queries re Bosch/Cubana Caso

2.

State Department LDX

Date:

19 October 1976

Classification:

Secret

SUBJECT:

Additional Questions

I.DX MESSAGE NO. 0714

---

## Page 68

1020a7a

SECRET

408108 pena dosion

STAFF

2620277

DIRECTOR

COM: C/LAS iNO: ME CliP/AN, C/NEG, 0003, ;

929465

more

Dissem or, OP

та надла

as ran to

PER

TO: PRUNITY

CARACAS. y

УВА!

NINTEL KNSTONE MHSRIKE

61056, 200/00

1. LATE PRESS CLIPPINGS REPORT ARREST OF LUIS POSADA CARRILES.

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA: OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ, CELSA TOLEDO AND

•FRANCISCO NUNEZ. POSARA AND CARRILES KNOWN TO STATION. PRELIMINARY

TRACES ON NUNEZ SHOW HE DEALTHY CUBAN EXILE AND MEMBER OF CORU

RESIDENT IN CARACAS. Y

2.. WE ARE CONCERNED IN SO FAR AS ARREST OF WKSCARLET-3 MIGHT CAST

SUSPICION, AND BRING ON ADDITIONAL CHARGES OF BHERALD CONNECTION

MITH BOMBING, ESPECIALLY SINCE UKSCARLET-3 HAS IN PAST BEEN PUBLIC-

ALLY ACCUSED OF BEING BKHERALD AGENT. WE ALSO NOTE HE HAS BEEN SOME-

TIME CONTACT OF CARACAS LEGATT, AND STATION SUSPICION THAT HE WAS

CONTACT OF DAO. Y

3. OF INTEREST IS THAT MUCH OF THE CARACAS END OF INVESTIGATION

OF THE AIRLINER BOMBING AND REPORTING IS CONTROLLED BY WITANGO-BE

GROUP. RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETTE IS UKTANGO-L DEPUTY AND HAS BEEN

SERVING AS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT FOR LEGATT. DISIP SUB-INSPECTOR

ORLANDO JIMENEZ WHO SENT TO PORT OF SPAIN IS ALSO INCLUDED IN GROUP.

DATE?

ORIG:

UNITe

EXT:

CROSS TILE COPY FOiT

201-300285

DO LICT DESCIOY

соотоятию спросека

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SECRET

E 2

CL. BY:

IMPDET

007255

• **

---

## Page 69

OUTGOIN..

MESSAGE

.0

0°

вілаето

2

COMP:

INPO: FRE

979165

кова

DISSEM BYE

PER

(;n069101)

ACCORDING TO CARAÇAS 3111?-EE

UKTANGO-2 AND MORALES

NAVARRETTE HAVE ALSO BEEN INCLUDED IN ORLANDO BÖSCH/UKSCARLET-J

GROUP. FBI REPORT QUOTING NUNEZ OF PARA I ABOVE STATED THAT

UKTANGO-I AND MORALES NAVARRETTE ARE BOTH CONSIDERED TRUSTED MEOPLE

WHO HAVE BEEN COOPERATIVE AND INSTRUMENTAL IN CORU SUCCESSES AND IN

OTHER ACTIVITIES: INFORMATION IN CARACAS 31087 45

ZI REPORTING

TRUE NAME OF HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO, BEFORGIT UAS ACTUALLY REVEALED

BY RICARDO IN PORT OF SPAIN ON 9 OCTOBER ALSO CAME FROM MORALES

NAVARRETTE, INDICATING THAT HE HAD FOREKNOWLEDGE, BUT WHETHER HE

KNEU THIS THROUGH PARTICIPATION IN PLANNING OR INFORMATION HE

RECEIVED FROM HIS OWN INFORMANT IS UNKNOWN. PUTTING ALL THIS TOGET-

HER, BAND IN LIGHAT OF CARACÄS 3133? bees

AS INFORMATION, UE

CANNOT HELP BUT WONDER IF THERE IS NOT MORE GOING ON THAN IS APPARENT.

6, ~06144.

CARACAS 31088 18

2A- ALSO SEEMED TO SUSPECT THIS AT AN

EARLY STANGE. Y

4. WE WOULD LIKE iO HAVE YOUR VIEUS ON THE FOLLOWINGS Y

A. LIKELIHOOD OF UKSCARLET-3 REVEALING INFORMATION WHICH

COULD IMPLICATE ANY OF HIS SEVERAL EMBASSY CONTACTS. Y

DATES

ORIG:

EXTS.

17"- 407

+1001

-.. to..

cocsonerna anacons

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN INE ISSUIMG OFFLE IS PROMOTES

and anonces

""IMPDET

---

## Page 70

4-00000

200

UUIGUING MESSAGE

con

OMP

SECRET

о полоо николько стожатос

DISSIM BYS

COMP:

INFO: FHE

929165

по тел

котик то

PER

B. POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF UKTANGO-I AND/OR MORALES

NAVARRETTE. Y

WE

WOULD ALSO LIKE TO HAVE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THOSE ARRESTED

ALONG

WITH BOSCH AND POSADA, ON WHOM WE HAVE NO INFORMATION. Y

S: "PLS ADVISE WHAT YOU HAVE BEEN ABLE TO LEARN THROUGH LIAISON

• CONTACTS WITH UKTANGO-3 AND UNILATERALLY FROM UKSCARLET-9. Y

6o FILE:

200-6-484/3; 201-0300985; 203-0285923: 203-00678600

E2 IMPDET.

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

KXT:

ROBEST BE ANDREAS.

-SLAIPNEA

- 1735

Felinen

CZLAD®

ооооотятна оттасьоо

алаокатком

REPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUIME OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SECRET

Deadle

E 2

CL BY:

007255

---

## Page 71

----i----1

lA.alills

KONEt.

----.

dlorsrata"

eaewra.

ia-a-s1l.T

iino ial:

-..-

1:ced 76

"NLONILEY IN

-===

-vl-ixs7=04

145

p...

Tidt

LALL

At UOmT)

TINSS-RLFERENC:C

EILFILILiT.

-GNiNLiFT MAirilN.

ditamtá lduir dariei ioaàa

LJL:Tlod, lir

OlLE cilálalin

icii deny lac!AN:VT.

+Il: c. 0:u18-00190-8-10041270

---11

w---------

1-• + -a0-.- --------9a-

t+ 0u-1pz11r-1-4--M--1---.

ecarean can nawnc-nc -e

C-.-....

. ..

---=

-..-

r i Ciioitice"

....aate: a. totit ia

---

## Page 72

4-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT.

PROME: YARI ISARELLE.

IPIAN®

EXI. 8494 / 946

RNAL

USE ONLY

= CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Incoming Pouch Message

INTENSION

GR-219

Area-20673

385354

DATE

TUBE ET-S

1400176

SECRET

OHAICERS

INITIALS

do untrans.

DORMATORO

ACTION COPY

3.

LAPNE/V

3.

Clume

Destaded

13e

201-

File

9.

10.

11.

12.

1J.

1d.

85.

7610 104

'SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NTERMA

ISE ONI

O UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 73

DISPATCH

SECRET

uNta

FROM

Chief, LA Division

COS, Caracas

ONILAYOR/WISCARLET--Termination of NISCARLET-3

ACTION REDLIRED - REFRINCES

CAUTION-BLANK FORMA REQUIRES

SECURE STORAGE

IN FIELO

NOTTiNE ALQUISTIO

APFATURA CARO AQUASTTO

WARNING OTICE --SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

Forwarded herewith is an agent service record

for WKSCARLET-3 kite was amicably terminated on

13 February 1976. Forwarded as a separate cover

attachment is the termination secrecy oath executed

by WKSCARIET-3 at the time of termination.

ich C. Bratspi

rederick C. BRADSPIE

Attachment: :

Agent Service fecord, h/w

Termination Secrecy Oath, usc/tnp

Distribution:

rig & 2 - C/LA, w/atts als

P18

Tuna roari

Соо 18 (2.8) |

RIBAI MSI. FAD

CAS. I D18 (11)

'ото (й]

Mahes

E2, IMPDET.

2.14

USS AHEA

RECORD COPY

DESTATO SPRESCE NO NUMBER

H0C1-20673

SECRET

8at

11 Cctober 1976

13 Рад ПіR3NI

8301-0300985

---

## Page 74

SECRET

AGENT SERVICE RECORD

1. AGENT:

WKSCARLET -3

2. PROJECT: HKBAXOR

3. AGENT RECRUITED BY: Perry G. DRAPKIN DATE: 2 February 1968

4.. CAPACITY IN WHICH AGENT SERVED: Penetration of HASCARLET

RATE ÖF PAY: Bs 2,000.00 or U.S.$466.62 at recrultment

6. OTHER COMMITMENTS: More

7. AGENT DISMISSED BY:Frederick C.

• DATE: 13 February 1976

BRADSPIES

8.. REASON FOR DISMISSAL; Loss of access of interest.

9.

10.

..."..

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS: On 13 October 1976 Subject was arrested

by venezuelan security agents on suspicion of involvement with

others in the destruction

of a Cubana aircraft near Barbados

6 October 1976.

Chief,

MVIDEA Caracas has prohibited any Station

contact with Subject until further notice.

IS AGENT RECOSMENDED FOR REUSE? Depending

upon resolution of

question as to involvement in

above cited incident.

Suggest

no further use of subject.

11. MANNER OF DISMISSAL AND ATTITUDE AT DISMISSAL: Subject was

amicably terminated by Caracas Station officer.

12. LETTER OF TERMINATION OBTAINED? YeS SECRECY AGRÉEMENT: 13 Feb 76°

13. OTHER COMMENTS: None

SECRET

RECORD COPY

901-300995-

..÷

---

## Page 75

TERVINATION SECRECY OATH

vies the orcanization. I realise tabque to terminate ay assoctation

oy dirtue of my duties

Organization,

I have been the récipient of information and intelligence

which concerns the

ware that the unauthorised disclosure of suel

moried disciose sick incontine poisite

by the espionago laws of our sovernnent which specifically requires the

protection of intelligence

sources and methods from unauthorized dis-

Accordingly:

I SOLENLY SWEAR,

WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR

PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS, AS FOLLOYS:

or otherwise;

I will never divulce, nublish, or reveal by writin jefense and

word, conduct,

any inforeation relating to the national

security and particularly information of this nature relating to intel-

ligence sources, methods, personnel,

fiscal data, or security mensures

co anyone,. including, out not limited to, any future governmental or

employer, private citizen, or governnent employee or official

without: che express written. consent of the Chief of the Organization

of his authorited representative.

2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may

necessitate the disclosure of information described herein.

been advised that any such claims will receive full legal consideration.

In the event, however, that I an not satisfied with the decisions of the

Organization concernins any present or future claims I may submit.

such legal

3. I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified

or unclassified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibil.

ity of the Organization, having come into my possession as a result of

my duties with the Organization or otherwise.

been given un opportunity to report all inforna-

tion about the Organization,

its personnel, and its operitions which I

consider should receive official cognizance.

any information which it is my duty, in the natione, I am not aware of

interest, to dis-

close to the Organization, nor em

aware of any violations or breaches

of security which I have not officizlly reported, except as set forth

on the reverse sido of this sheet or on other attachments.

I have been advised that, in the event I am called unon by the pro-

porly constituted authorities

to testify or provide information which

• am pledged mereby not to disclose

I will notify the Organization

immediately: I will also advisi said authoritios of my secrecy commit-

ments to our government and will request that my right of need to testify

be established before I ar. required to do so.

aware of the provisions and ponalities of the espionage laws

am fully aware that any violation on my nart of

to by me under this oath may subject me to proso.

ste subject to appropriate action, including suci

HEARS

I have read and understard the contents of this oath and voluntarily

affix my siganture

hereto with the full knowledga that this orth was

executed for the mutual benefit of mysolf and our government, and that

SFCRET

leite ato Hood- 50628

RECOND. COPY

501-329885

---

## Page 76

.o, genitones dese

SECRET

it will be retained in tho files of the Orcanization for lts future use

or for reference by me at any cine in the future that I may he requested

of ordered in tostify or disclose any of the matters includod within

the scope of this orth.

IN WITNESS WHEREDF, I have set my hand and seal this 13th day of

Fchruary

19 76

at

Caracas, Venezurln

Signature

Nitnessed by me this 18th day or February, 1976

at Caracas, Venezuela.

Hey thuck

Therinult

SECR

2161-3009855

---

## Page 77

4-00000

13 OCT 1976

MN HINDM TON: irector of dential Incelligonce

THIN

vra

:

ther aware

lat in America Division

: Repudy Director for aperitions

SURJILT

Trevious agency Association Nill lersons

Algedly Besponsible for Bombing of

cuban Airlines Flight

lo na o pedolor i labana airlines flight crashed

shorely after likende from scavell airport at Barbados.

serent eight persons choard vere hilled in

the crash.

The passengers

nore mostly Cubin,

hat also included a

Morth torein delegation and the vile of the Guyanese

Following the incident the Trinidad and-Tobigo

police detained

two Venezuelan citizens who they believe

ao connorted with the bombing.

The suspects are Jose

VAsque birdesi and freddy Ludo, both holdors of Venozuolan

passports.

on subsequent interrogation by

the Trinidadian

police

dis leurned

that Virzquez is in alins used by

Hernan Ricardo lozano.

3.

There are no Headquarters prices on lugo, lozano,

or the allis Vil'quez.

According to the Legal Attache in

Caress, hoverio, both lugo ind locano are employed is

invesrigators by in industriil socurity firm operated by

luis Postel carriles.

Posada is a former salaried arent

of the agone).

He is i lubin exile, naturalized Veneroin,

ho mis cornerly bond of the counter intelligence diviv:

ol the lonesuolin civilian security sorvice.

Posadle 10...

lis job with the socurils

souvico in March of 1978 .0d kirs

micably corminated by the Caricas station

in June of 19!4.

The station continued in occasional contact with Posidla

pending resolution of problems concerning his U.s. inconc

His last reported contact with

the Station was in

Jane 1976

he unsuccessfully sought Station assistance

with i visa problem.

12, INUDET

CL BY 9560

2016202

SECRET

nad ted.

-....

---

## Page 78

4-00000

. 1: 18: 8.

1.

S:186.0108 BoaNe Dale cared, in ceiline crile

ho is a journalise in Caricide,

hes been

imbing officials is involved in the

leim, lilio

ubsequently wore

Killed in the crush.

Miss emplosed by caracas seation foom inpeonbor 1900 motil

December

1106

is i writer and press placement isset

in the

station's and i castro propogando campaign.

wis somclhat

logg

His cormination

thie amicable, but

in March of 1907

komini dis

paid i examination bonus and signed i quit clain.

Carmens Slit ion ind Heidirtors hire no lither

information of luency associntion of any of the other

individuals thus

for mentioned in connoction with the

Cabana crish.

Raymond A. Varron

Ragmond A. Warren

ce: DOCI

CONCUR:

I leputy Director for Operations

1 ÷ UCT 836

Hilto

2

SI: CRI: Y

---

## Page 79

4-00000

506K0: T

'111.11:1:8':

will

lorions

nirlines Flight

1:0/10:1.1/015/N/0.8ind0rs:l0l (13 Delober 1910) (88173)

miserilmlion:

Origi

1

• 1:8

• 0D:8

• lix Reg

DhO

2

• 8:/1.A

• 1.N/01'5

- IN/CAR

: - I.N/I'NC/V

SACRET

---

## Page 80

14-00000

111850 8:9

And do asses 21 mr.

++450N 191T NUTIFIEO

ALYANIS.!!'

2A8

т 299644

0e10120109.

SECRET

A PRECEDENCE

UH PLAR, CI4, CLoPS

P5/562, 056, 05G/aC

E1 48 93

PAGE @ 1-01

IOR11322202 OCT 76

IN

86 78 46

CARA 31115

SEGRET 13ZZIOZ OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31115

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL AXULE

1. FYI, STATION HAS RECEIVED REPORTS FROM SEVERAL SOURCES

WHICH INDICATE ALMOST CERTAINLY THAT WKSCARLET-3 WAS ARRESTED BY

DI SIP 12 OCTOBER AND IS BEING DETAINED UNDER SUSPICION OF

INVOLVEMENT IN THE O OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT NEAR

BARBADOS, ALSO, THAT WISCARLET-J'S OFFICE WAS RAIDED AND ALL

FILES CONFISCATED MORNING 13 OCTOBER.

2. FILE: 201-0300985,

EZ IMPDET.

1ihes

RECORE LA 1

SECRET

201-300985.

1300876

---

## Page 81

14-00000

12-2 de

200

SECRET

0

1222447

DIRECTOR

COME. C/LAg ino: me CliMAN, CiLSAlID, ClOPs,

926531

толь

DISSEM BY: 48

по толе

O amas =132

TO: IMMEDIATE FBI//INTELLIGENCE DIVISON.Y

SECRET --WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE

•TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTALTS Y

Cor

SUBJECT: TRACES ON PERSONS INVOLVED IN 6 OCT 1976 CUBANA CRASH Y

-1.??

CIR-294-76 4

SHOULD BE CIRA-

i Flores

•J. THIS AGENCY HAS CONDUCTED AN, INVESTIGATION' OF THE NAMES OF

PERSONS SUSPECTED OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 CRASH OF THE

CUBANA AIRLINES FLIGHT OFF THE COAST OF BARBADOS, WE HAVE NO CIA

LOZANO,

TRACES ON HERNAN RECARLO TRENO, AKA HERMAN ACHED

LIZAND ALIAS JOSE VAZQUEZ GARCIA: FREDDY LU.G 01

ORE. SEALY.Y

2. WE HAVE DETERMINED THAT THIS AGENCY HAD A RELATIONSHIP WITH

ONE PERSON WHOSE NAME HAS BEEN MENTIONED IN CONNECTION WITH THE

REPORTED BOMBING: Y

LUGO'S EMPLOYER IN CARAÇAS IS LUIS PO SAD A CARRILES.

FORMER HEAD OF THE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE DIVISION OF THE DIRECTORATE

FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION {DISIP}, THE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

Mart?

WKSCARLET-3

что опасет.

STRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

---

## Page 82

ace

OMF

6108801609000

SECRET

STAFF

CONF.

OUTGOING

**MESSAGE

• USE OMI

roo

non

0

Date rose a souo

INFO:

fiLE

12

₴

₴

DIRECTOR

926531

0008.

DISSEM BY:

VENEZUELAN CIVILIAN SECURITY SERVICE. POSADA. IS A FORMER "AGENT OF

CIA. HE WAS AMICAELY TERMINATED IN JULY 196? BUT CONTACT WAS RE-

ESTABLISHED IN OCTOBER 1962. HE LOST HIS POSITION WITH DISIP IN

MARCH 1974ÄS A RESULT OF A CHANGE IN THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

AND WAS AMICABLY TERMINATED. WE CONTINUED OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH.

HIM. HIS LAST REPORTED CONTACT WITH US WAS IN UNJUNE 1976 WHEN HE

UNSUCCESSFULLY SOUGHT ASSISTANCE REGARDING A VISA PROBLEM.

3. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0..11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY

5812). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION. Y

MATE: 12 OCT 76

ORIG:

LEN THERRY: R8

UNIT:

LA/CAR

EX):

913

C/PCS/LSN

ксат

REPRODUCT. C

SWines.

LA/OPS

& OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRON

signs taran-cork

CALANCAR

5.2

...?

---

## Page 83

8.91073 8 78

SECT

PERSON UN:: 00-8185

ISSUES SLOTHES

RF

FILE

as ananuet

STRESSE

FATMIBITTS

7 291926

ELA16L

•PAGE 81

TOR: 091836Z OCT 18

IN A6N048

CARA

31120

SECRET 0918262 DET 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 3110R IHAGKELING ACTINGS

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

NIACT DIRECTOR

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE.

REFO DIRECTO

926898

1, REF CORRECT THAT CRYPTONYM IS WISCARLET-S WHICH RECEIVED

INCORRECTLY DUE TO ERROR IN TRANSMISSION FIGURE AFTER NUMBER 3

WAS OPEN PAREND, AMBASSADOR BRIEFED ON FORMER STATION RELATION

SHIP WITH WKSCARLET-3 NHO TERMINATED ON IS FEBRUARY 1978.

2. STATION MAS NO FIRM INFORMATION INDICATING NXSCARLET-3

INVOLVEMENT EXCEPT FOR SPECULATIONS OF LEGAL ATTACHE, CIRCUMO

STATIAL EVIDENCE IS BASED ON APPARENT ASSOSIATION OF TWO SUSPECTS

DETAINED IN TRINIDAD WITH WASCARLET-S AND ITEM FROM RICARDO

MORALES TO LEGAL ATTACHE WHOSE ACCURACY WE CANNOT JUDGES

TO EFFECT THAT WASCARLET-S ALSO LEAVING VENEZUELA,

ipic

LOWL PECKE

3. FILE: 221-302985. EZ IMPDET.

.

3 201-283136

SECRET

RECORD GOP

ifty

LAMENETR

201-300985°

9áet 76

-

---

## Page 84

14-00000

2i 1-18

9000

OMF O

SECRET

STAFF

076127

DIRECTOR

star, 0003 000/00 C/CH:

то какли

C/OPS)ITGY

ADASSO DA PARANCO

926098

Osse or. 25 /

PER

O amaro

TO: IMMEDIATE CARACAS. Y -

NIACT CARACAS Y

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE Y

REFS: A. CARACAS 31088 lIN 0644471

B:' CARACAS 31002 lIN Q6442484

3. REF A INDICATES THAT YOU HAVE BRIEFED AMBASSADOR ON SALVADOR

ROMANI'S FORMER EMPLOYMENT BY AGENCY: IT APPEARS FROM REF B AND OTHER

INFO REPORTED BY LEGATT CARACAS THAT WKSCARLET-3 ALSO PROBABLY IMPLI-

CATED IN BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER• THEREFORE RECOMMEND THAT, IF

YOU HAVE NOT ALREADY DONE SO, YOU BRIEF AMBASSADOR ON WKSCARLET-3'S

URRENT KELATIONSHNS

AST CONNECTION WITH AGENCY AND ON RECEMPSPASIAN SANTA

IF ANY. PLEASE ADVISE. Y

2. CRYPTONYM IN PARA 2 REF B RECEIVED AS UKSCARLET-J6. PLEASE

ADVISE WHETHER WE CORRECT IN ASSUMING UKSCARLET-3 WAS MEANT. Y

3. FILE: 201-300985. E2O IMPDETON

B 201 - 282136

REF A - PLUUCADET /MESSAGE FROM AMBASSADOR TO ASST SECY SPLAUDERRAN

REF B - INFO RE CUBAN AIRLINES BOMBING RECEIVED BY LEGATT.

Mr Wal

- is 1d.

DATE: 9 OCT 76

ORIG: L. COOLEYIPK

LAICOG W. MURRAY {DRAFTY

UNIT: LA/PNC/V

EXT:

"Athen

состотятою опасекь

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHEA THAN THE ISSUHIG OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SECRET

201-300985

90C116

Beardle

ACHLA/PNG

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 008492

Вов

---

## Page 85

OMF O

SECRET

STAFF

05622

DIRECTOR

COMR. /LA & INeD: Pa CIPIÁn, DDO3 000/00 C/CHY

000sa0 conseen

926098

000.

DISSEM Or: 2,>

00 100s

sorus to

PER

O 070

TO: IMMEDIATE CARACAS. Y

NIACT CARACAS Y

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE Y.

REFS: A. CARACAS 32088 |IN 0644471

B. CARACAS 3408? |IN 0644241 4

Lo REF A INDICATES THAT YOU HAVE BRIEFED AMBASSADOR ON SALVADOR

ROMANI'S FORMER EMPLOYMENT BY AGENCY. IT APPEARS FROM REF. B AND OTHER

INFO REPORTED BY LEGATT CARACAS THAT WKSCARLET-3 ALSO PROBABLY IMPLI-

CATED IN BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER. THEREFORE RECOMMEND THAT, IF

YOU HAVE NOT ALREADY DONE SO, YOU BRIEF AMBASSADOR ON WISCARLET-J'S

PAST CONNECTION UITH AGENCY AND EURCEST RELATONS CANCIE MEINEN, B

IF ANY, PLEASE ADVISE. Y

2. CRYPTONYM. IN PARA 2 REF B RECEIVED AS UKSCARLET-36. PLEASE

ADVISE WHETHER WE CORRECT IN ASSUMING UKSCARLET-J WAS MEANT. Y

. 3. FILE: 201-300985- EZ, IMPDET-N

REF A - PLUNCADET/MESSAGE FROM AMBASSADOR TO ASST SECY SHLAUDERNAN

REF B - INFO RE CUBAN AIRLINES BOMBING RECEIVED BY LEGATT.

LAICOG W. MURRAY DRAFIS

RIG:

UNIT: LA/PNCAN

EXT:

CROSS FiLE GOEY POS

101-282136-

eila

AC/LA/PNS.

LATSONCATION

SECRET

сосоотетоо описать

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEÒ

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 008492

---

## Page 86

14-00000

SECRET

MECULE'" (DiTr MULTE-LS, CIFENCS-i)

DECS 15 February diRi, Cloniuejos, Cuba

Lost sirina no rediale of Gilering lila

no: close.

lie morected his Phl status

whitle he worked for us

In CaFECiS--

uni il serination June 7i.

Aiso haids Venezuelan passpora.

Entered U.S. as exiln aù Februury 196i.

served U.S. rty as and Li. Fort Beaning Mirch üs - Murch 64.

Nenber oi outs so enrly os.

April 65 - granied Pul.and recrulied by NAVE as instructor working for iralning

Branch sai us aource of inio on exile activities

1a lind ares.

DA Ocr "15.

Aug oú - heing unel by Miniva CI Branch to repuri on uctivities of "Centrel

Junty" reing oif unised io fovera activities of RECE, Cominãos L; Marisi, 'und AVBC.

Subjéci assuctiled tlih Mate.

Juni aT - Stiject known to fBi und Depirtrent oi Justice us CIA employee.

Cooperising with FRI/Miai in Investigntion of trunk "Lefty" Rosenthial.

July dr - iticubiy termalnited ty Mials. Contiaiing to cooperute wuh FBI.

ius úi - Menciouen in CIA siguna lu broadcasts fica LiSO conference.

ссі бі - ніла

position--Ciler or ith Division, Aplosives & Armiments, and Chiei of

CI section. Continued toring ¿or DISIP, succestor to DIGEPC, during

COPEl airinistration lund vis used by DISIP Cilet, Dr. Renber-o UZCATIGUI

XXXxXNAT aI virious serisitire operations.

March T3 a suspicied by Dal ai luvolvement in nurcorles trafficking.

in burope on DIll business it the time.) wuy 73 "pussed" polisruph os

chis suitece.

wursh 74 - Disaissed Iran DISI, Mury wich mny owbers, when AD adjaistrition

tarminiled i June it due to loss ol uccess. Siry at tim

o: termiasilou jeso per za:ch.

senoy proictial subluct's pri suitus iros March lino until his terlaitio

dune iyi.

21a the 1eo ille could de

Monade ferencrateed."

is sent to allen itfairs Oiricer tellin

wksca.let.3/F6

=...

---

## Page 87

14-00000

ine. 1s.

WKSCARLET - 3

October 1961 Employed at Firestone International Div. In Akron, Ohio.

1963

19 Aug 63

U.S. Army Platoon leader (and Lt) Fort Benning, Ga.

Polygraphed in connection with investigation for attendance

at intelligence

course. passed.

March 64

May 64

Released from active duty

subject in charge of group setting up training camp in

- Polk County, Fla. Nas also as instructor.

June 64

Jan 65

Resided in Miami, was member of JURE

Subject assigned to M/V Venus and one of the plotters

to take conmand of the M/V Venus, a 110-ft Panamanian

vessel belonging to Manuel Ray Rivero, leader of JURE.

Subject dispatched to Miani by Jose Ricardo Rabel Nunez,

one of the chief plotters.

14823 March 65

Subject approached by 281386 re using subject as

Mexico?

weapons instructor in lanxasi, connection with planned

coup. Station advised subject accept offer and report

findings to WAVE

26 Mar 65

aS

Recruited by IMWAVE/training instructor and reporter on exile

activities in the Miami area.

April 65

20 Apr 65

POA granted

Team leader of Cuban exile recruits for operational teams

to participate in an attempt to overthrow the Guatemalan

government.

15 Apr 65

Polygraphed on 1) whether he had withheld anything re his

knowledge of Roberto Alejos Arug (Subject had withheld

---

## Page 88

14-00000

21 Арг 66

20 July 66

26 Jun 67

Info on a U.S. military unisgoa mentioned in a conversation

related to the plan to overthrow Guatemala)

2) fact that Subf in contact with the group planning a

revolution in Guatemala; that Subject had/recruited to

transport arms for the group from N.Y. (place of purchase)

to Miami, that Subj had told no one of his connection with

LIA; that he was not reporting

to anyone other than CIA.

3) Fact that he never took part in any communist party

activity; never worked for any Castro intell or security

service and that apart from Cuba, he had no connection

or agreement with the government of any other country.

Polygraphed to verify thar subject was not cooperating in

any way with the govt.of any country other than U.S. and

was not obligated to any Cuban exile group. 2.He never did

anything on purpose to cause an operation to fail and never tas

took CIA equipment or cargo without authorization.

3. Did not assist in the training of any unauthorized persons

since working for CIA.

4. Did not recall having discussed the details of his

operational activities with any unauthorized person.

Subject requested permission to accept a position (military

leader) as part of a collective Junta set up to govern the

activities of joint forces working collectively in activities

against Cuba.

In U.S. Dept of Justice investigation of Lefty Rosenthal,

Subject was revealed as "attached to CIA" and as supplier of

240 lbs of C-4 explosives. The Dept had a report from its

Security Squad which stated that Subject was CIA agent in a xe

GS status.

с x.

---

## Page 89

4-00000

6 July 67

11 July 67

1 Aug 67

10 Aug 67

17 Aug

28 Aug 67

11 Sept 67

28 OCt 67

1 Nov 67

7л.1

justico Dopt requested have Subject recontact Rosenthal for

meetings for purpose of arresting Rosenthal for possession

of goods passed to him by Subject.

amicably

Subject terminated/by JWAVE at Has instructions for

loss of access (resigned from his position as a military

coordinator/member of RECE) and security reasons (involved

with Miami gambler Frank Rosenthal.

Subject informed KICOBALT-I that he had offered his services

to Bolivian Consul in Miami as interrogator/guerrilla

fighter in bolivia, offered $800 (Has in no way involved)

Proposed to organize a group of Cuban gerrilla training

officers. He left the impression that he departing soon

Traveled Caracas seek employment through an old friend who

resided there.

JMWAVE advised that no contact with subject be made because

he mentioned as CIA agent on radio & TV LASSO conference

and also involved shaby deals in Miami.

Returned to Miami obtain proper visa enable hin work in

Venezuela. Said he obtained job with DIGEPOL through

Rafael Tremolst Gustavo Ortiz Faez

Subject's contract held in abeyance until he in place.

Subject to be re-contacted by Station when he returne

Caracas and starts new job.

Subject picked up as unilateral penetration of CIRASH and

CIRASH-4.

Subject began working with DIEGPOL.

- м.

---

## Page 90

28 Jan 68

PiA requested on

Subject for use as DIEGPOL penetration

but cancelled because of his involvement in clandestine

sobatage activitles and failure to report complete stories

of his activities. Subject handled as hostile until his

motives completely ascertained.

22 May 68

Polygraphed an Purpose: To determine conclusively that

he broke off completely with lefty Rosenthal group and

that he not currently involved in any illegal activity..

which could cause embarrassment to US Gov, and 1) Status

of his relationship with his brothers 2) degree of his

involvement witt in theft and disposal of demolition and

other sabatoge devices. 3) past illegal activities or

association with gangster elements make him vulnerable to

blacknail. 4) that he not engaged in activities hostile to

to U.S. government. Subject was willing and eager to

Rass take SWIRL. passed SWIRL exam 23 May with satisfactory

clarification on all points of sanera concern.

464=0. 0011?

7-12 Aug 68: Attended Latin American student conference

at Merida

17 Jan 69

29 AUG 69

Subject returned to Caracas (from Miami?-not clear in 201)

Subject ordered by CIVISTA to make surrepitious entry of

Guayana Embassy in Caracas to get "any info of interest":

19 Oct 69

Left Caracas for Miami to investigate purchase of $300,000

worth of weapons by Richard Hart.

17 Nov 69

Subject making efforts preserve rights to become U.S.

citizen while becoming citizen of Venezuela (which might

be necessary for ops reasons i.e., to maintain his high

position in GOV). Sought Station's help who, through Has was

able solve problen.

18 Mar 70

ja Apr. 71

Subject & family in Miami to process application for U.S.

re-entry permits. Returned Caracas 20 March.

Subject sent by CIFENCE service to Lima to assemble bomb

to be sent to former Venezuelan dictator

Perez Jimenez.

Subject requested Lima Station's help in mission. Station

reconmended against it.

inde mata:

---

## Page 91

4-00000

4.25511. 000

1 Sept 71

Subj notified that he to accompany Venezuelan Minister

of Interior (Loreäzo Fernandez) on a 4 to 6 week trip

to Europe. Trip speculated to be Fernandez' touching

5s..

base for political reasons prior announcing his presidential

candidacy upon return.

28 Nov 71

29. Nov 71

OA requested for use as penetration of DISIP.

Subject polygraphed to determine if DISIP and/or CIFENCE-1

had knowledge of Subject's connections with Station; if

hejever requested to work against U.S.; if he contacted

either of his brothers since May 68; ie involved with

illegal arms smuggling. Result: answered truthfully, no

indication of deception.

1 Dec 71

Travelled to Miami by his employer to purchase 25 nine

milineter pistols for GOV use. (unable to refuse or evade

assignment).

17 July 72 OA granted.

Apr 72 Subject placed in charge of another CIRASH disision with more

responsibility and importance. Initiated extensive

investigation of Prensa Latina and its Caracas Director

and the kidnapping of Venezuelan industrialist Carlos damin

dominguez.

5 Feb 73

12 Feb 73

To Rome to aid in auduo operation

Name mentioned in unspecified connection with several

members of the UIR who involved with narcotics.

• -

---

## Page 92

4-00000

22 Feb 73

Subject refused a $30,000 bribe (from 2 U.S. attorneys)

to influence Venezuelan government officials to drop

charges against a representative of a New Jersey

corporation. Xally The New Jersey Corporation (AVM)

was instrumental in getting a $20,000 contract for the

U.S. for the voting machines to be used in the

December 1973 elections.

---

