# 104-10336-10000

## Page 1

1104-10336-10000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUELTS

file

(see notes,

on attechad

5 December 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO

DO JFK Focal Point

J. Barry Harrelson

CSI/HRG

JFK Project Officer

Priority Requests from ARRB Staff

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

REQUESTS:

1. The ARRB Staff is planning to interview Russ Holmes about his JFK. Ancillary (working) Files. Dave Marwell has requested that

Holmes be given on one day clearance so that he can look to the files. How do you want to handle?

2. Has David Vance Vanek (SSN 482-36-5577) ever worked for the Agency (001? Vanek is an army officer who served in

Thailand and Vietnam could have been detailed to Agency. He figures in one of the conspiracy theories that the ARRB staff is currently

taking depositions on. Can DO check or is this an OP issue - we have not had a lot of luck with OP. Initially the ARRB staff was going

to make this a formal request, but agreed to hold off for the moment. The theory involves counter-terrorism training and the death of an

American with knowledge of JFK assassination.

3. Agency Officers in Moscow: The ARRB staff is researching Oswald's contacts in Moscow. The records shows that he came into

contact with other Americans besides Snyder (the Consular Officer). Gunn requested a list of the CIA officers in Moscow a few weeks

ago. Based on discussions with Ellie, etc., I told him a list did not exist and would be considered very sensitive if we did prepare one. I

ask him to be more specific; if he had names, we would check against Agency records. Since then his staff has located a list of senior

officers in Moscow prepared for the HSCA (Eileen has copy). He has now resurrected his requests. Let discuss the next step.

4. Did Mrs. G. Stanley Brown (Verna Deane Stebbens Brown, born 12 August 1928) work for the Agency; what was her status

when she was in Moscow as Embassy receptionist/secretary? She is the wife of George Stanley Brown, an Agency employee from

1952-1962. According to the ARRB staff, she had contact with Oswald (see item #3).

I will give you a call on Friday to discuss our responses to the above request..

CC:

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ir s

REVIEW

RECO,

BOARD

27057970

wirk copy

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 27, 1996

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELBASE IN FULL

Mr. Barry Harrelson

2000

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re:

Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CLA for

Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of

Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the

CIA.

Formal Requests:

CIA-1

Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by

November 1, 1996.

CLA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board

staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CIA's compilation of the portion

of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that

CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available

and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two

weeks. Nothing has been made available.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,

no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications

that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board

staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide

within two weeks. (was Oswald on)

CIA-11 (Duran's original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran's original

statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)

CIA has agreed to make matetials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.

alre fours at ear as in elect is opted unitar

liscuss issues with ClA

RRB stett leven

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). = Copy seut

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review •

Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's understanding that CIA continues

its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the

subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been

located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been

unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,

or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us

whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding

Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape

as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.

Thank you for your help and cooperation.

Sincerel

---

## Page 5

13-00000

01/08/87

29

U401

алло

MEMORANDUM

FEME TON

MAMEN, COLLECTIONS

To P

-Barty Harreison

RELEASS IN FULL

2000

From:

N-T. Jeremy Gunn

Subject Requests to CIA for Records-Related Information- UPDATE

Date:

January 9, 1997

Thad

G03) 6i

The followings a list of our current requests for information. These should be

consideredinfo

mal requests for which we await your response. If you have any

adaiti

sponses, you should call either Bob Skwirot or the analysts

identined below. We are willing to formalize any of the requests into our numbered

settest

you would so prefer.

partia

ми нат

response

10/969

pending

9/6/96

9/6/96

pending

partia!

response

10/96

pending

complete

10/96

pending.

pending.

pending

pending

pending

pending

pending

9/6/96

9/6/98

9/96

9/96

10/17/96

10/24/96

10/24/96

11/06/96

12/10/96

12/10/96

01/07/97

Spas Balan nes. Are all files in collection? I CIA has any

additional files (e.g., personnel, 201, etc.), we would like to

request them.

pas Falkin file in Box 15 tolder 34. Who is the person

signing the DCD messages? Did Raikin work for CIA? Did

he work for DCD/OO? What is relationship between

documents in file and Raikin?

Location of cable Identified in JFK

1993.0720.10.18:29:650630 (Box 34, F 22) p. 2. Cable

number (IN 24738) 7 July 82. We can send fax if helpful.

ManlyD. Murret fles. Are all files in collection? If ClA

has any additional files (e.g.., personnel, 201, etc.), we

would like to request them.

Information on HTLINGUAL

Information on Angleton's filing system at Cl

Location of DRE, CRC, MRA(?) monthly operational

reports

Tapes

Moscow

Tapes of Alvarado Interrogation

New Orleans, Hunter Leake, Clay Shaw, @KENCHANT,

and ZRCLIFF

Claude Bares Capehart

Howard Guebler

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Combs

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Marr

Combs

Marr

Legaspl

Skwirot

Gunn

---

## Page 6

13-00000

re CIA IK-OI

1800297

• A

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

C.1. SEBOLAT, COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULI

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

2000

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper tollow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identity as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CLA-IR-03

HTLINGUAL Documents, CLA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CLA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CLA-IR-22 " A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBeRS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future

reference, they will be referred to by the "Informal Request" (IR) number provided

below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.

This request is complete.

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

•CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in

April 1997. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer

searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the

record.

**CIA-IR-01 Disposition of Angleton's Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to

count for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that

elated to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceive

controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton's files, the Review Board

believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he

maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not seek to

explore any subjects in Angleton's files beyond those that may have pertained to

the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided

by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The Review Board requests any

additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the

disposition of Angleton's files.

In addition, the ARRB staff's review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated

additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents

are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied

---

## Page 8

13-00000

MEMORANDUM

July 20, 1998

To:

CT: SEBCIAZ, COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

cc:

From:

Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director

Bob Skwirot

CIA Team Leader

Michelle Combs Michelle Conta

Associate Director for Research and Review

Subject:

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post in 104-10065-10199 from 1959-1964

In response to ARRB's first informal request, CIA provided several documents from the

Directorate of Operations which contained lists of the CIA employees assigned to the

ountry post found in record number 104-10065-10199. These lists of CIA employee

were not designated as assassination records.

e: \combs \cia-ir01.wpd

File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4

---

## Page 9

13-00000

C. GUSCAR

•COLLECTIONS

RELBASE IN FULL

2000

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk

Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT:

CIA-IR-1, CIA Personnel Assigned to Post

from 1959-64

1.

This is in response to referent request.

2. Searches were made for information responsive to

the request and materials were provided for examination by

ARRB staff.

No documents were selected for the JFK

Collection

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request.

If you have any question, please advise.

---

