# 104-10185-10244

## Page 1

104-10185-10244

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

TO BE OPENED, BY ADDI

ONLY

26 JUN 1964

MENORANDIM FOR: Chief, wiDivision

TTENTION

"Mr. Leonard Libby, WH/SA/cI

THRU

Mr. walter Richardson 03

Roạn GH 4435

FROM

Deputy Director of Security: (Investigations

and Operational Subrort)

SUBJECT

COVERT SITE

Apartient G .32

24

Sumit Hills Apartments.

8500 16th Street,

"Silver Spring, Marylara

#353 578

Reference is made to your remorandum dated: 19 May 1964 to the

Safehouse Procurement. Branch, Office of Logistics.

randum recuested the procurement.of a safehousé to be occupied by a

Latin American., Tre safehouse was to ce located in the Bethesda, Mary-

2. His will confirm verbal security approval provided the safe-

house Procuremer't Branch by. this office for the use

of the Subject

Forwerded herewith is a report dated 18 June 1964 of the

coriucted on the Subject premises. Your attention is

directed to Sectior. VI on Page 2 of inis report which lists possible

security hszards.. This is brought to your attentior so that you will

be able ta teise

appropriate action to prevent any compromise of activi-

• ties at tire Subjee: Có:ert site.

3:

for your information a searcr..ca Ortice of Security Inrives

in the names of the individuals listed ir. the attached report has

failed to rereal ary additional notensriry or derogatory inforration

identifiable with them.

4. Under no circunstarces may classified material be stored ir

the Subject Covert Site.

addition, the Sucject Corert Site may not

be loaned to or wilized by another component of the Ageney withoüt the

prior concurrance 08

ie: Contral Cover: Statf, the Safchouse Procurement-

Branch, Crise of logistics ard this cafice.

2/ V

SFARET

DESIR: 1:8

---

## Page 2

SECRET

5:

office in a sealed envelope marked;.

* so requested pe mathe tached penet be terense to tate

when your office has no further need for it.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURIT

etnte6

Victor R. White

Attachnent:

Report dated 18 June 1964

Central Cover Staff

Safehouse Procurement Branch

SFERFT

---

## Page 3

Support Dision!

REPORT

OF

INVESTIGATION

CONSiSTING OF

→!1

K1.1

•сода погов інци,

---

## Page 4

SECRET

FILE NO. :89.308

-DATEV

1s June 1061

SYNOPSIS

The SMlJKCT SITt

loratod-in. the cast

fint Gli

Mal (1T0110000.

in ilarimen

muildins'

lth Stree 1JarRy The buildin

lucitrayr?

ile-telonment, known

ai Eummi!

le Apoteosand

24

nd Esitost highway,

and mercoral service

tacilitites

ro raril

Segale"

i:l

FIre

11:6

Dolce prat

por alile

settiritt

hara 1

14

tolto

orosimi

pori 1hle

penciration

suscriter oa: is.

adequale.

ir.r. SUR.JECT SITE

martadin

I round

letel.un

: :...d.

leid

116.007:6:

11.:

ioi.i

1 cin tli.

stantuttir

!:.

i: norl.

LH SIRIECI SITE

•mainer in

5/p0

REPORT NO.

•HM *: 1125

.........

---

## Page 5

598

Ii.

DESCHIPTIEN CE AREA

TRe STRUECT SIT!

interaled

kriwit.is

codern..

24 Corni Hi118

Anariments.

Mitre of sostarad

uti i c:.

is

D.C:,

Ci streetS bug

The

SERJECT SITE buildin,

is

locared n Bontgorcry

coenty. Maryland.

Tir thira

inutli

SUBIRCT SITE Sui:

aportront building

as. 1n224

th str. et) 1. Gurmis Bill"

Apartnentsd24

which

Tinti

rus srti

sif th?

STEJECT

SIrE huslding

And.SUBJFCT SITE

luridir: a iorareu

ware Gan sembre.

largo

108...

Accres

t1s Dột

lot.

pirat lei

to

the.rast

M1NHO

JURJECT SITI

PILDING.

fained

proccerlini:

01"

•rom loth sirectoch

a lakired

nintadi ;

tho parki

Leo!

irrand

7110

north

SCHIET SITE MUTI

martrentuilling

porcin

Arcas

SITF buildine

SURJECT SITE cuildin: i: laid

out. in

rie.inrm.nl.arioss.vitt

nortt. southi

ea:!. indi weist

STBIFCT. SITE

nd inithe citreme:

southener

corner

ni

cast

ni

SURIECT SITE

tuildins

D.C. Transit. hus.servire

is

variatin alon: Cast-ic-024

nichway indiat the parking

int locater in close

proximity

TO SURICI MITE iN a ni

D.C. Transii.

This

parkind loi 15 localed dircidly borer

et thin cast winh

Of SUMECT SITE nuildin:..

•rallahle.

Complete

percoral services ar located

anpro: nataly dalle inir in silver Sprang, Marylandra

which can bo reached

by travelin: cast ""

bulk of parkin; area

sor automohiles currounde

SIlE building:

III.

iSCRIPTIC DI SITE

.Ves,

meriduc lee!...

maidplite"

me ingo 1l STIECT SITE Mailding.

12/TN

---

## Page 6

SEChaT

382 598

SUBJECT SITE is located on the around triel of thr

SUBJECT SITE buildinr

Trelevater, are localid. it

the rear of the lobby and a carras

10011110055.01

sUrECT sIttoulldies located at the orprem cast

end of the cat sing.

Ty CONNLVICATICN SYSTEM

Telephone scriace is provided by Chesspeake and

Potomac Telephone Company on an adividual subscriter basis

V.

FIRE ND POLICE PROTECTION

polino protecton is citorerd ly the Montremerg

County Police Department khich har

naubelation: lorated on

Goorin Turnue in Silver Sprin.

Fire prodection

alorded by the Silver Sorang Fire Devartment.

VI. POSSIPIA SECURITY HAYARDS.

SUBJECT SITE a located on the tround floor of

SUBJECT SITE building (relow emuad level and..

SUBJECT SITE' mindoss are it .round level.

thus.

Visual and

Lechnical nonetration may to persitio trom the land area

SUriQUidiN, SUBJECT SITE Puilding and trun the

parkins:

lot located approximatoly

lidleen sards to the scuth of

SUBJFCT SITE •ulüIn

Mid SUBJECT SITE.

so other recurity

building 1

approsenatoly lilly yards awa;.

VII. OLTLINE OF EXILIBITS

Chibit - did. ran dipicting SUBJECT SITE

mulding aid area surrounding

Bihabit B -

ram ot

round level floor of

SUBJECT SITE bulldare.

01. BIGKAPHICA. ONES

queriment o 10.

06

SCHNER, born 190g in tarland and married to Joan.

This spartant to sempter bo one behol Richnited

STORI

---

## Page 7

4-00000

333

598

descriled ly credit murces as da attorner corsillaine

• investmeng60.4018

intormation indicatrs

detrimoit:l

credit

unformal test

olice information, di

House

Commitlee

on lin- Imoraxin.

reflected

Netivities

frcurd, were.

1n

the BIe 0: (SCHRIEDer bis vile:

diartment

114

(locipe disretle Cor SUNJECT SITE)

06:

moless chito femal

birth

listed G Magda and E daren

1 do urtes

bori

New Yorkob the unless repurtment

he widow of Joseph t.

JOLLES)06

Mintermers Count:

died

natural causes on

formerly

prosilent

June-19nd.

J.T.LFS) wis

he Mingland Bell Pirriuay, 0o

eveloumentine..

Silver Sprins.

Maryland. and thr Gorthod

Imnioration ind daturalization records reflected

is not a naturalized cataron but

recriveà her certifical

throus!!

Hemisratan and

Maturallrat10n

number Ge1:57.28gs located in Biltimore, Maryland. Esther 06

JULLES i- employed as a homemaker.

•Credit sources reilect

lame of Goseph 1

Mildred JOllFS) daughter of Esther JoLLES) is

employed

ils

an analyse by the quartermastor Corps. Depart-

Ponte.on.

An additional addrees of

•1.0

rellroter for Glildred06

1'1 € 19.1:

depend ratingole the mas elared sorrsoot recordy

dependent:.

for cither Mildred ICILES) or Esthor MiLiEs mas rotlected

at appropriate police

I'n-trericar detivities.

arencieso gnu the House Committee on

ESC li:

SEGRET

---

