# 104-10188-10001

## Page 1

10000

104-10188-10001

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

++35194 90816880.50-9-22

19C0 TO FILE NO. _

peng

FLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ERSUNIUNITI

NOTIFICO

POTAL GD016S

REFRSCUCTION PROHIBITED

843

міні

I RID COPY

Taro

FILE VE, EUR 8, SA8, CICeS, FliNTa

IVANCE COPY

Dinero

шлет

TIME

WHIT

SE CE ET 151600Z CITE OTTAYA 413E'

LEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

PEDCOAT

REF A TEXICO CITY 0121

(ON 88248)

BASE

ABSTRACT

iSFErs: 01388

•EXICO CITY S91O (IN 77928)

LOCAL LIERSO REP PASSED REF INFO RE LOWRY TO SHARDUE 13 FER ST.

SECRET

ЭТ

SECRES

..

RIFENT

504: 32/4

IS FEBC?

---

## Page 2

DANER, COTES 01 NO

50%

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

-41

PET: TO BRANCH BE

DEstRor Osic.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT

NOTIFICO

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTIOY PROMIBITEO

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TIME

INFO

DRID COPY

EURE

585,

ajars, El, Eyesid

MEXI

SE C GET 2721552 CITE MEXICO CITY 21212

MICKOPILNEO

DIPECT OP INFO OTTAVA

REDCOAT

(091752)

APK 1 4 1967

ANT WAVI

оБра

ABS?: 'CT

LINDER

TÜ3246

C. MICRO SEN

018 1235

PEF: MEXICO CITY 9918 IPLS RELA?

ABSTRACT •

INDERE

1. PER LIFEAT DON LOWHY AGAIN CALLED LEONOV 19 JON

IDENTIFYING MIMSELF AS FROM CANADA. LOWRY HAD BEEN UNABLE

TO CONTACT ESCARTIN AT CUBAN EMBASSY, BUT LEONOV SAID

EIT CANN

COULD NOT HELP HIN AND IHAT HE SHULD XEED TRYING A

2, LOCAL LNERGO HAS RECORD OF ONE DONALD PORERT LOWRY,

PRUE CORN 25 NCY 191A OR 191S iN MOLRECUILLE OR WINDSORe ONTARIOS

¿DEAL L'ERGO IS NOTIFYING THEIR PEPRESENTATIVES IN A GUINCT JUITH

MASHTNGTOM AND OTTAWA TO SEE IF LOWRY STILL ON WANTED LIST 'ET FMEARE

3. STATION HAS LIONION PHOTO OF MAN WHO VISITED CUBAN.

EMPASSY ON D JAN AND SHOWS SOME RESENBLANCE TO VERY OLD

LEPRO PHOTO OF DONALD

ROFERI LOWRY. CAN POUCH PRINTS IF

OITAWA STATION WISHES.

4. SUPSTANCE OF THE LOVE AND INFO IN FEF MAY BE

PASSED TO SMASOVES, DISGUISING SOUPCE, REQUESI OITAWA STATION

COORDINATE ANY ACTION WITH LEERGO.

SEGPET

SCORET

MICROFILMED

MAR &

1967

DOC. MICRO. BEH

506-5442-

5671d

2JAü4).

---

## Page 3

LET A NO SO SO COASIFIO MESSAGE EE

1-089:2 8 81L8 MO.

110.90

15re O9ro.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT MOTIFICO

TOTAL COPIES

REPROQUETION PROMIDITED

WH? ETRID COPY

HERE SAP WHICORD CHOPS

APPANCE COPY

MEN

Li 27478

SECP ET 1321302 CITE MEXICO CITY O MIEROFILMED

DIPFCTOP

FIDCOAT

100 21196813

DOC, MICRO. BER.

JiN 167

AiMENCI

• WAS IN CONTACT UTT

JACT

SOVIET PRESS ATTACHE LEONE 13910 ONE LANAND ASO KITH

CURAN CUS TUBAL ATTACHE RICARD ESCARTIN FEDANDEZ SAME DAY.

LOUPY SAID ME HAD NEWSPAPER AND MAGAZINE EXDEBLENGE AND MAD

ALSO REEN PALS AL TELEVISION A'NOUNGER. ESCAPTIN FERNANDEZ

HAD AGREED TO SEND HIS LETIEP AND WITING SAMPLES TO CURA

IN NEXT POUCH AND TOLD HIM CHANCES WERE MAYRE TWENTY PERCENT,

EVIDFNTLY OF MIS OFTTING A JOB THERE. LOWPY HAS TO WAIT

AROUNR, MEXICO SOP TWO WEEKS, APPAPENTLY INTIL 49 HEARS FROM

CUBA.

?. LEONOV WAS NON-COMMITTAL BUT SAIR HE WOULD INTRODUCE

LOUDY TO SOVIET CONSUL ON 1A JAN. COMUEPCATION INDICATES

THAT LOWPY HAD FIRST ASKED LEONOV ABOUT A JOR AND LEONOU

HAD

SUGGESTED HE TOY THE CURAN FMPASSY.

3. PAUFST CARLED HEADQUAPTERS TRACES. INCORPINS

LOCH LIFERO.

SFCPET

RT

SECREY NONGS TRACES

50-6-39144

13 I4A 8

---

## Page 4

14-00000

DISPATCH

mountries

üniti, on Divisich

tora

Clèe: ei stacior, dexico vity

ran Chiet si sianion, fort du Frince ide

PROCEISING ACTION.

NO IROOTING REQUIRLS.

сля хосе постто

MTAM RIQURED REASSENCE

de: camoron c0770, 23 Junuary 1y07

is determined Di

headquarters.

o as requested in reiere.ce, station fort iu frince 1s

co rcadouurturs all of tie blushirins cards currently

it the siation.

Pleuse return to do tion copies oi those

ceras consinine surricient intormicion to ve ci value to unior.

sation is in irrechent nich -cidouariers

that a hard

cony

oi cae tanes snorid ve sent direcily from Station Mexico

Citv to arsinuarters in order that reuu muirters may exteuite the

processara of tue material.

Ho: over, station suriests

triat in

order

to reduca te overall processing time and eliminate what could be

auplican of eriort, ond! leidguariers rective a copy oi thi

Lüpes.

Teen readquarters, when processing

the ori-inal tapes,

couls reine crose creole portions and seid a connosite lare to the

stition der translation.

¿cation currentiy nas a bacclog of the Liu. hrit

tapts.

Firase cavise whether these tapes also should ve sent to

headquariers for processing.

Feud matters comments

ind sipestions ire relcome.

Mi.es

tries do unis s

jistirbätie.:

2-üniti,

1-A+xico

icine de cold fairi

"?::37

DEFER REG

CROSS ANTONICE TO

$

OSCATCH SIMBO NO MINSEA

1r+-1y73

MLASSIFICATION

OATE

2ó January iyur -

HES ME MUSIBER

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIIICITAN

SECRFI

_POCESSINO ACTION

Degucy Chiaf hil/c

ORT QUALINE CESA

CAN MODE LADELIAR

Chicf, biH Dlvision

•chief of stacion, Mexico City

MICROFAN

• TYPIC/LIFE\I/Transmittal of Traffle of Subject of 201-735575 and LICLOVE-2

ATLA STUNINTO -REFERENCES

1, Attached

no lo are copies of traffle covering the subject uf

201-735575 for the pardod 1, 2, 4, and 7 Juno 1966. This Graffle was

provided Stacion Mexico by LIFEAT.

2. Attached

d8 B are coples of traffic covering LICLOVE-L for the

pasiod 30 May - 12 June 1966. Thie trafflo uns also provided Statiou

Mexico by LIFEAT.

s. Attachments are being forwarded XAPOX and under separate cover.

for Willard c. CinTIs

artachments:

A & B a/s KNPOK u/s/c

Distribution:

1 - C/bAD N/0 aits

4 - FILES

LIFTHT

189ATS 10

SAPACH SIMAX ANO MINDER

1N64-÷7211

i assur carter

50-4-35/41

16 June 1966

??

50apo'2/:

---

## Page 6

4-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSA-CATION

HAM

ГАСЛі

FACESSIMO ACTION-

TARTID E:A 19011:804

N 1999226 88JU10

/ ПРА Де R118IО 0138

ENTO AI

¡ort-lu-irinc

Triiucion di creole torcions of bliti lepis

References:

81•

3.

hidr:-28489,

l4 larch 1966

Hi i

22 lárch 1906

-285y4,

24 LerC 1900

-18701,

i1 april 1y00

-.öïc1,

MICROFILMED

JUM &= 1YSS

DAC. MICRO. DER.

attiched lor adurecoces intornation dis traio itluils

tranclatione more doi uy it.

inciudec.

win luoghi rott's

jucuisi:

Journe!?

e rose la di 2670123 Cerca

4, 0

ritti ind

verto ilou viere de vent to asett ais: ochur.

CILL, is iritz SinG ino 15 vedi-Vod LO niVe loreS & siLli

cale rile

daccadly oratti i now mielin poste, è stiap issue.

Cia.ni plenned

10 leep the stempo ina suil thea de a protir co

stanp ducterà.

¡ccordire lo a fur (iritlin Ul) claroestina

jauinil,

vos i Maltian desciato to the Fii-

continental

voidirtice

in havann in Januer; lyce.

ionever Culs

robibly e pattacayo.

per consuiite diles,

editand

e cerour 1919.

telli travedia to ina from

Ine Lüven approuch lo lilid

airectoa et iclos la luerro ilco.

Jo che due crede coro euro ne couns

ES COPY

DISPATI

A nO MABIA

3444-

CAOSS PEPERITER TO

+30-10321

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

Ter lad io

11h-1&59

rapire

lescisti labor luter.

hoie-1715, a utation cono

ace, reported that on dy iclouer lybs, lamine Dione belore

Inquire

evita..

irjorli: reverlo

motivi no i lety capavia, enriotic intellectual lch

,chuino cife ii louderslig.

lie received

is inibian len deuroe,

ecurionica in Foris for six yeers

ind received e lado

irano do accord i harvard

seritar ori marictira, in

ahile in laici he apicared

de frocittricci.

every laician bould

resist Viso

incervention

in husti are contienaca che ú...

ircles oi his ciose tirs "i

Il would

appear dron che

inurri cion ind inpiici ciono in che telephono

converte parte due e al de teolo ci ch

The "zero" (pa) nunclened In 224e126 cel 15 laknown

co itation.

Cin aüuressots reClande

es i clinic or

lospital

In texico

os in che moviet bloc:

ine zero le pro-

rouliced e er o (burriaioebster pronouncitzion idys).

Mio ih noo 01 32CE 132 1806 15 prosuoly dosugh rankur

of Mila li,l, 24 feb lÿcuo

016528 ru ust 1935, Mirioine nno acconcinied lorord Fi. ki

Cor a. a d'romlexico

lotis thet

woe tall jon che Greg lu Dein recuirca by che

ille climent:

Translation of lifes

ilstrivution:

?-ivo, lexico vil; i/orico sec.

i-ü/liu w/loy

ill.

" 530

1...

---

## Page 8

4-00000

Attachment to HIPI-185

MICROFILMED

JUN 8 ≤ 1968

DOC. MICHO. DER.

Pago 1

29 GP 82 222

This conversation is about "The Comeulung", a book mitten

about Hüfts by Grahun Greene.

Gerurd and

Plerre says

the book was the novel of the nonth

of februury in thu d..

Book I's about Vuvuller.

Gerard has heard

chet foreigners are making money on Hulllon houdu by writhm, such

stories but he has also heard that Greeno was in contuce wich a

person who rually rave tim lull information.

¿dipterro it he nos the

psorre hus it and promises to roturn 1t.

29 GP 85300

Suzle calls Gorerd PILANE CHAlLES.

Roger hus loft susie a

lierord fulled to so where he hud plinned.

rierard called

Vorce but Dorce wasnt there.

Ho went to the inbassy for 15-20

minutes but he couldn't find him. (conversation probably about

1.1d1 Castor's visa.)

Gerard isks how everythink cune out.

wiis of the unief of Police cumo over to l'ix the thing about che

l1ttle girl.

The police never suspected anybody and they don't

think anybody like that had it.

Subto soys Cluudette finally jound

her passport.

Clauducte went to i (convent?) and someone stole hor

handbag which contained her possport, money und license to work.

everything, was returned the next duy with & check for $500. Claudette

had to teturn tho $500.

22 GP 85.900

Suzle with Gerard.

Suzie asks Gerird 11 he gow a number on the

front or back of something (papers)?

Thert 13 nothing written

by hando corard recaived three copies und they aro lookine sor two

29 GP 98 22,5

Suzle Calls Grrand.

suale isks lerard if ild1 has come by.

suzle soys she is coing back to the muossy.

Gerurd has changed every-

thing and the min will come by around 2:00 to pick him up. judy called

to ask when she should cony.

29 CP 103 499

Pierre Lelong calling Suile Pier:e-Charles.

juzle asks Fierre

but nithout his sother.

asks Fierre how Lillian and her friends wire.

They were tine.

Tonton CINiaS had been arrested und hid been shot.

one nine we ere eason it, of

Tonton ülhAS wus in touch with sone-

Plenard cliffles was aloo involved

NTiN 1557

&S COPY.

1 551-6-32164

---

## Page 9

Page 2

in tho offair.

12,000 was involved.

The p.rson thit juve him the

news was a friend di blemord CitillS.

21 Floore his written about un invasion on lifer In NeY. rumed

portes that soreare ninca VIXimi was ilivolved.

FIerre was

In & stor

in Son Juin, puerto nico vuyitu

some cloch when a cuvan cirl

approached

hin ai asked him 11 he wus ilaiciun.

The rirl

was scompanied

by a Cuban

men and they asked terre questiong

about Haltion history.

They asked Fierre li he knew anything about Duvalier.

Pierre ex-

plained ne was

orrosed to luvullur.

The lubons suld there were people

in san Juin plaralia co "catch" Duvaller.

Pierre Inplies that the

Cuban man lives ir lexico.

Gerard PIllik CHAlLS tikes the phone.

Gorard tolls Pierre that someone numud Silvie li on the border.

asky Pleira If he lis brought the merchandise. les.

Pierre went to tho

post office to piai up a puckuge and they were going to open the package-

to inspect it but lorre told the clark it was not necessary to in-

spect It.

The post office clerk ould the declured value way too high,

and ho had. to oper It.

wien he opened it no found it was & hund-

written manuscriri so

che clerk usked no more questions.

everyching

wunt alright.

Fierre mentions thit durini his trip overicas (Son Juin)

Gerard asky Pierie what LiTOnTUL's financial

StatUS WaS.

Pierre thinKy LATORTUL 15 workins at the University of

Mayaguez.

Pierre says chere üre a lot

of liultiens in Puerto Rico that

are interested in doira somuthiny (eruinst vuvalier?) but most are

without families.

They ure petty vourgcois or engineers working in

San Juan.

The boureois Midtiens now hive storco in Puerto Rico..

Gerard asks Pierre lI LATOrTUe mentioned unythiny about his uncle

Fruncois LiTORTUE.

io, he did not.

Litortur might come to Mexico soon

on a tourist visi.

has to 10 throuch come routine to yet the visa.

Gerord tells Pierre Chit Francois LAPOKIUk 13 up to his neck In

politics in Halil.

Lilurtor suid that the leftist party was really

mistreating mimir and LATCRTUL didn't 11ke 1t.

tverytim e LANIGAT

opens his mouth sarachin; huppens.

The leftist parties lixener. NDIGAT

to Castro.

MANICAT showed his

Like E Stro, Maulins calked 200 muca dad diu too runy witnes.

too much ind that do why they are mistreating

as the CP put Castro where

It wos the issuntat party that pue liniGht where he ls, just

L'TOliTUP. hus written

en articio to

counter what has rappened to NANIChT.

Cerord suys he knew titluAt 10

LATCRTUE has written an article condemning

in Hi1t1. LITORTUE & 1s Professor of

tconomies at the iriversity of Mayaguez.

LATORQUE 15 trying to leave

Puerto RIcO ind to sonewhere else where he con find better work.

29 P 105. 25.2

Gerard is iltina to musle cbout a title of property.

She ca:not

jind 1t.

she asts about Daniel.

---

## Page 10

SEERST

Pace

39 GP 106 207

Has l'lerre found 2 pickages of popurs?

dererd calls fierre LilDo and asis ferre to drop by tons laie's

ine curisins pipers for

course and

the other is & fückige of whlse slick paper sor ringasmoph-

1nc.

39 Р. 102 20,2

Sualo calls Gerard.

juzle is neer the "-uy's" house. She wants

to get a larze roll of paper and rents to brite & check

for the people that are coin: to send

"chose things" this afternoon.

Gerard asks if she received any news.

fersrd asks susie to buy

some flash bulbs for his camera.

39 Р 118 200

Suzie with Benolt. Berolt excuses hisseli for not coming.

He will

oi school.

cone by tenorrow nett about 8:00 pre mende dese ass about tierre

Has juade received any news from Gerard? No.

Louds.

Pierre Louis is doing alright.

39 GP 118 12.2

Suzle cells Vincent. Long time no see.

fircent kids surle about

her travels, vacation,

She asks about ingelica.

Benolt is coming over

tomorron.

vacation.

come touse belies brother cace in for t11?

Vincent asks

suzle if there is any other rews.

the

some as in februery

Vincunt says that he

the lenily saying that the economices sitiition is very rough.

Vincent

asks about 1ld1.

He scored 9.10 on an exei.

Suble asks Vincent it he

has seen CIlühs (rh) ¡sounds like somebody at the kexican University).

Vincent says everyoods at the Univorsity is arsinst hia.

39 CP. 128 2,0

the person that before

erson the bertre no er wide they perse niard explives no

will show if he has T3 or not.

If the test is rosilive, they will

rive hia medecine to stop or cure it.

Thered entry person save he gra las coe out da see and nos

had prelimonda.

29 гр 128 10.0

lerord with sugle.

AJ FRON wönts to tron what dime he should .

arrive beciuse he 1s doing sonethli very deportant.

He should come

around 2:00.

SEGRET

---

## Page 11

Pict in

22 CF 129 1207

Suzle wath vonji.

mention taiale nho toic

anythings

39 GP 337 185

M culls fun. in and suks li to come right anay.

39 GP 139 5.2

PIerre LiLONÜ culls susie.

Suzle hus friends with her now. She

agks 1f there 1s a letter.

Tierre came in hu

round ill the ltters orched on the cable.

He sild there is an Open Iatter mere 18

a letter from DUVil.

"hey zust be jasterdäy's letters.

39 CP 140 1002

Suale a with Cloudotte irichs.

Juale charks Plavaette for the

gift ind the translation.

There hid beer. ¿ lecture it the univorsity

Eiven by scavone viho spoke only Frencho.

The person cine luescey night

ilow does Suzie

She is Oor.; 1t5 hol

chis corner feld, she is ovine todus sick.

feel aiter ill thät translating?

Cliidette tells

her ierard Is goin: to be

suprised when he comes

suzie teils

Claudetto thit, she will tell vierrot to coll nis frierd in kiini

that her broth full coalrs up soon.

39 GP 146 7.0

SuBle calls Berrord.

They talk abour Suzie's new house. she is

a big bourgeoise now.

She escs for vonya's iddress.

32 GP 5.905

(T1 Ben 1s a ricknime for Benoli.) I1 Ben with jusle. B couldn't

come becouse he vasa busy norkine but by Saturday he will try to have

everythin reidy.

she will cail him and lec hit inona.

1t they are already on strike. B sajo medicül school hasn't started yes.

B proposed i plen l'or é strike out three o1 enon dien'e like une juda.

They deciaed to wilt ind see what harichs.

Surie usks 3 if lie has

news fion liciti.

He heurd sore troops hid linded in Multi.

Suble asks

whet kind

of runors he nod heard.

"Suviller has burnod hall of Cup

A Hustlin cold nin that?.

SuBiO nüS heArd thuS there Day &

lording

in liaits and

"itälder illled 15,00J people.

Unt Thursudy

a newspiper 11

*?

an:ouiced laiding. in

1:101.

VeridEdes

announced that ther! had bee: i bave oi

retression

The Solone hasts.

somi inerican bouls and virglucs here surrouding haiti.

The Maltlan

covernment protested to the

intiicans but the inericars

sild that 1t

rias just &

routine checa/proccciion of the duiars.

Suale siys

Yonrod Fhilal!!, dos shot becuusu of the Cilis sifalr.

that

suzie asts B

If he has heiid iron tho triiiin

B's philosophy course

hid been suspended.

--UNET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

Asel B2B:11-6

= 1 -

imi doso, 7 june (ruesday, to 0756, y Su se 1256

mIgla (lartines barroso) sith Cecllla,

is 18 dante, dehiad tre dotal

whO angvers.

racnllo

2.5

2.7

= 1230

Cut tu 03. I139 Is 2200, 7 Juse.

Cut t0 03. 80 51189.

Esui 0700 so 2100, 3 Juse (bedresday) 1965

eso Uro (?) Miti Juanloa, 6'0 aigiaria The :an 3500'1

80178 so cose do direb.

ibout

ahst to lix lusch....

ASCE 122E-3 2429

302

Qut to 03, sulce, la sin89, casala:o. T1no 19 1146, 3 Jua9.

3.5

Out t0 93. #1-se 1a 1419, 3 June.

SiA OLGA IV, N160 :10159.

b5,n ar930f3.

Tisay /s.ie and

ar.cthor wc.uag/ ura

craing hus

for lu et nou...atout luch...

Dit t0 17-30-53

is cillt:r?

1 faioni fros Cubco

vorr taios fiore.

Ki has a lotter for J1frai Cirlog

Co.:là le cuTe

soalkit lo pick 11

dt cuoan Anbussy?

tut

18 to

3nd

MACA

cate corros.

sostrat, plongo loave 1t wit::

Fine.

"PortarU"

HowIs C.rlos (11,r0)?

d 1r1

40

not gre

n1y.

i.e

il 01o) cals iedt sha sedtes there at dios nêflee.

HÄS

io 5

iu 24-31-72.

Hange di.

4.7

Cut to 35-17-00.

1I asto 10, bini aiggera le conaves de arico,

jap d

filon:

to los.i00r1g.

There 19 70

t02:1201.

1s one dry sidee putirrow.

ity fly tercay,

lie@readayg

and priddis

Thay 199e

t0 chante 1x9029

17 C211003),

filibe

Tie reiurn filtat. Leaveg 109 :00% 15 a8 1335

0:

54990073

iliurtings aid

Ilea, lily alll raseryo tha tickets

E0r day

fi1gaà on jacardos.

i checks ti aaje the louT Are

orafiased en fliph: 100g 20

Cudlican and city

101: 106.

Jose

Careira,

Hu0 do1 : 150g

aix sorelo

C71 601S.

H18 nusa 300as 31-01-06.

agie for o epator lit

11) 8109 1,0119.

de Nabina collef clvalsa. 56111 a0 9170418

say aro cat ta coda?.

- 1: DOPY

30-13a1

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Heol i-aili-o

: -JuiDa 19:0

7.5

[ia.

10 aitg Olg (V), unu uagbogs,

fer sr. Clvelra.

civelru

tade.:

tu c.

wisidlo

Blagln (341)

oudlede kaitrd

to talk

tilne.

They liave to gu

by norohaves do l'xico beéurs 1300 for

• tickots t0 L0s..uc::ls.

¡hera ls a fllent loovins everi dajo iurtiros

barrogo oslreu and tirre 19 n. E1leho intii diy aflor tomurrou.

1I bakes rhuno, There 18 no dlroco fliaht to 2o3 .lookls.

un guy en a tay liave to d0 lo jay lor tickets.

Have to go bejore

1330, 11 wiid Bo by su .t, and .il ain gu dy for tlckets.

9.0

8.2

A3bAs3ad0r.

arOsR n.10eI.

3.5

1no Wl) w1th su1d, wia diSweid...NIUig Busbero

iartln.i.

Ashs 11 tH1s 19 TOuse 01

i: then goyg il 1g

In.

nü wlth Juansg wuo unsbe s, for inrigurta.

Ha1ú cones l0 phone.

about r0'g worko..suldseoodn and..(gra.)

vaut dounatsirs at i500.

a:1i Juil 106 buck,

ürüo deit on lu tha csbossy.

abou: plalbiny mriguita this dunry.

il is tot sura 1f yiio wiil be off

on Sumluyo...w's uruo ls iuving gueyta un saturduy everíng..

Hoel uff ut it 20.2, 2100, i june 1966

Tied

i))-wiilod

---

## Page 14

feel 37-114-3

1350

Froa 2100, 8 Suna (Thurriay) to 0650, 3 June 1966

Froz 0650, 3 June firliar) to 0730, 4 June 1916

209

ister laide 32u2a

Mo Sea. with s01d, mid aravers, ibout firlad the fish...- loe.

1050-50:13d 1330 05

In.

Sre. with Jold, did answeri, ly are lesting sou so

sha can start fry the fis!.

се: 14352 3 J4П9

100

5.0

5.?

In. No answer.

Arter 31202 3 June

Out tO 63a Flue 18 2253, 3 June.

Froa 0730, l June (Saturisy) so 2355, 5 June 1956

Mister lasad June

505

Yas.

Has Juanita left ifor sy

Has Jua dealer the taels woe yes?

In everything all right?

ASSIE 1200. 4 JuDa

5o?

I7.

aru. with walls sha aaggergo Has Juallta certi do.

parl sosa pocatcas to try

1:93.00

Mo with drao, blee, sae araberg. Me 1a hor husband, to

19 801.8 0020 11is.

ned to do: to :le

Stassy 61th 303a 8h1 83

keeause la j0e ton Inierulen ians solago le la coalig nou.

10er 162ei dius

Di8 80 14-13-260

So19894401P39 Lette chout 33 31ad03 480.

10 l jopri:.

6,5

---

## Page 15

4-00000

Rool 37-1103

• ju7 196

6.5

contd..

Ma1d types...:0 culled a shile ago, but got no aasuer. lil las boso

"I going hose tocorrow?

Irg.

no can't do becauss siso

dorsa'thevosubog.dw11llend bergabbc...nd 1360..g200uft

her job.

nI 13 iot

appy elthero...it 13 infiqueto. io will sen

LI ate don do to:crrou....

Aster 21302 4-2428

1100

No with hariqueta, whi ansvers.

"!: 19 nudilag for hag.

shr has been ringing the boll... bout going hose...al ig on the corpor

of selchor ocoupo right nou...ll just avakened,

Prois 0855 to 1225, 5 June (Sudsy) 1966

11.?

In.

13 there.

10 with Juanite (aali)? 1f sha

who ensbero. istg if

0000? (Srdo)

illi soo. Cheak to 3co

or 10) 13 balcop.

Joanita takes pious.

Ins, somone 19 agicap bacause (lo or she)

had ward duty.

12.0

vent

In.

No Mitu Juanito, uho anguers. asks if sergio la upo

to sleep very late.

Iogg MO want do talk to tim

Sra?

toll his when he awakong that they are saiting for hia at the abessy..

13

12.2

Did 110 0018

Xos. they winted to know 1f he yas uno

Out to 14-97-26. SerBlo With 110e argio vill bo at the babaggy

1n 30 anutes.

About ga:ding a cur for lile if there

Is a cir thoro .

1n 30 alnut?s.

Thare in no one there nou (alth' a dür), but uill gond

0.20 1I one arIlyes.

ant to 14-13-20. Seigio aska Nico, mio uncere

for Lasa (ps).

MO tokes phor.

lasn't do que gono by (a cir)? No one la

thoreo surelo will do thare nut.

to undted for a bille for lugo to come for lila la our.

but in hag loft nou..oserglo spent all night ut tabausy

1307

Que to 1413-26, 0lza with 1100, uto anskar..

i&s Sarglo left?

Ho jost lasto

ACted 1230e 31ue

1400 IN. NO BiZEWTO

11001 085 A8 89 14.2, 1925, 85 Jun0 1266

001 99-L433

• 2÷

---

## Page 16

14-00000

Reol 37-1

Sтоз 0310, 1 Juna (Hadrasday) to 0645, 2 June (Thursday) 1966

schoolvork.:

sho has trong aver.

"0 neods gone pamphiats for

This is house of dad.

WO with. WI, who anavors.

(Mald typos...WІ la bO'g mther.)

Wby didn't lo onll her sasterday, vas marled about ner....abat what

No has done.... will cone by to soo hor ln a 11ttlo bit.

AStOr 1330e 22419

205 Out to 03. Tina 18 1250, 1 Juno.

ACReT 12000 1 1412

300- Out to 14-13-26. Dials without dial ts sone.

olga (1ngde) with w0, uno anguara at Cuban

5aba93у.

in a littlo late:

Ronaaber to get ready to go

Olga wiii 80, but lator on.

Is Olga better? A little bettor...erippe, Ole's 15 at hono nowa

300 Out to 03. Ilao 19 1519, 1 June.

ASter 2635, 3 JMNg

After 2120. 1 June

3.2 Out to 03. I'lao 19 2251, 1 June.

Fool off at RI 3.2, 0645, 2 June 1966

Rael 87-1

---

## Page 17

14-00000

P.**

feel

89-2

•2.

JUN i

FrO:s 0645 t2 2100, 3 Jula (Thursday) 1766

2.0

Oit to 03, tulco. No sings, cosplate, Ilse 1o 0737, 2 Jura.

1strr. 09001 3 Jung

2.2 Out to 03. ulely Mithout dial tona.

2.2 Out to 03. Ila9 L0 1042, 2 JW28.

ARter 12102 2 147

202 Out to 03. Flie 13 1303, 2 Juns.

l'orres to so by cinat a stovo

lauel iodos santos.

code by (although thay phone dareudously), ¡lanuel Todon los cintos

7-736.

Alter 14102 2 June

Fine. Has chil had lunchi

Had a good lunch....iu is child's nothor.

- upatairs.

ACter 1612, 2 Jun2

3.0 Out to 03. Ilia 18 1633, 2 Juro.

AISE 18302 2 J12

wo ulth it (nald), who ansuorg..

crootings.

daughter.)

How uld thinga ro? Fine.

h11l they go homo

Lo-sn't have monay.

wi got hor a-ney.

Is Ses. going to

pay hor evary 2 books? Thinks 80.

How much did

she l'oy hori

sra told Juanita that she didn't want wi to go to wo's house.

very angry the cini day and indo a scene at the ! abaggy with woog

Sruo, thet 1t looked ilke she was trying to abeel her sala.

a scone in front of everyone.

inat is why she doesn't want wil or

0 to No's house (wo borky for a budan ofübon Tabaggy too. i

vent with the sra. to coars.

They (2001.19

whorn sie yorks)

out list night.

no was afrald. They wore throwing stones from tho

other bouso.

Sein sald ther

the sa bore tha irricans tho

are mery

blth the cubang.

Thit there

aBy even be was 18 they continue this

boy (malds Interprotution of U.S. -Cuba ralatlors).

DiO suyg nolthor

Sro nor iris MerA thore last ilaht.

• I saya that

she and tap husban

(chit la couple for uhua she worko) have to be na

gaurd duty tonignt

and yon't ba hone uitli very labo.

Alao shay ira nos corine to havo

ire. then to words puld tor sor 15 days yesterdor, but ko

piralers she pay her shoda nonth.

#1l}

tall her.

Rool 39-2

• 1

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Hool 370₴

2 June 1966

2

iO thinks she won' stuy long with Sra.

They expect anra and

Gore or ber.

They won't to jenrs today and unlked all too way.

(3rao) bon't pay dor a vab.

Thia Elie ol señor toot than (thero),

never pays for a cab.

Pael off at RI 5.0, 2100, 2 Juna 1966

---

## Page 19

14-00000

LIFZAT

E3N4-00775

TOUS 0314105444-65

IRA-10094

05-311/01530-56

MONTOOS

IÝ-OLУX2

1/ 1129. 4196

fine twi

Travel to Maxico sl Faziir so tellio

Coriero Michoi Dosinies= Exile

al SIglo XII, Publishino jouse to be

Directod by Arnoldo vanila Reyaal

Dissatisfaction of ITE sith Max Fastor Es,ra

Leader of the JC (Cionist Youth) ..

¿issa Fica

-ii:,

31888

---

## Page 20

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chlor of Station, Santo Doninço.

DuFO

_Chief, WH Division

FROM

Chior 01 Station, Noxico City

• LIFEAT Coverage of Dominican Embassy, Mexico CIty

ACTON RIQUIRED REFERENCES

PROCLOSINU ASIION

MARCO FOR INOR:

EXXX NO INACTING POLITIO

ONLT QUALISMO DESE

CAN JUDGE PADEXIMO

МІСЛО'L

Attached for Addressees' information and retention are

copies of the transcripts of the LIFEAT coverage of the vonitiican

Embassy in Noxico City, reels 21 through 31 for the period 3 to

9 Mry 1966.

for

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachments:

As stated above, b/m

Distribution:

2

- COS, Santo Domingo, Matts

Cr chios, iD, H/atts

/ att

CANSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY

CISPATCH SYMECA AND NUMBER

120S1-29913

CLASSUTLATION

SECKET

50-6 32/4

DATE

10 Mey 1981

ES FRE NUNBEi

50-9-3

---

## Page 21

14-00000

.01.0

1200

ENLATADA DOMINICA - 28-78-15.

2 mayo ó6.

12-22-721-

1045-1730 12°9.-

HO 04.31843

00∞

- intrida - 1045 hrs. - (corvergación intulada) - HD GUAUN

con IF huces plarios para verdo pero GUillas dejó ayor il chafor

quo torda y CAlleS no puedo Baldo aOlo porque tiono Licencia

do la republica y qur lo digas l 11 andro que astacos coso ue

clavo arriba de la carratara cor la punta para uxriba y que

no hay que apurarse por la abra cuestión y que lo dos un abraso

y yi saboa que estanos anul pos si no nos volvchos a ves o a

habiar", l que esté b1nn.- 12-

12-

- Bloqueado. - 24-

24-

Entrada,- 1048 'rsio ll' pregunta que roquiaitos hay para

sacar visa a Santo 10a1a00 o 1o a tribadar por dos laesos allí.

Milla pregunto di tienea idea contrato para trabajaro 10e quo

al que es de una oficina de contadores para la a lacor unas

auditorios en Santo doningo y alouas poblacionos del interior. :

y quo la offsinù esta agrediado y es la hang & lana. letia

dice que hace falta una curto bancaria y otra do la ofleira

donde trabaja, cortificallo de conducta de la policita, Sous

fotografias y llenar in forcularlo y s1 do urgente pagar ol

cable rara

su contuatución ravida ya que a1 es por offolo tarda

de 20 a 25 djaB y uniendO BOU 5 O úMiso y que cabo Dolarar a1

vin a trnbjar para ol robierno entoneco os diatinto. lo que

dospuos que pase a vorla le dirí como estén 169 coaas. - 59-

TiLA It 11MMA-29843

ES COPY

( hoja uno)

50 6 30/

---

## Page 22

4-00000

59-

86-

108-

118-

121-

127-

• 136=0

1a"80.200'

Salldn.- MUtINA suelam d0s sauros que no lo han alocado.

8+19r103.-74-

-Bloqueado - rudios -dE

lnstrada.- IP por datos jara tien lara 1r a Santo Domingo

como turista. IllINi lo poppotelaDa dos datos. - 108-

Salida.- (Cartoros Cona TEo)- MiNINA galida al soflor

INCIAN y preGunta al luy alguna vallla para la esbajado. Esto

d1oo quo tio hay nada, - 119-

Salida al 01 por la bora.-i10j luso= 121-

SalIda. - 1108 Ardo-JARIa por MIQNGl. ID dico que no

0std. - 127-

salida 4l l'-zingio- G13a5 precuata por 01 61C0 EllIg

SAVISiON, In' cico que anda por la cubadirección. GUIUll pido

se lo digie dee 1e 1lunarí pas tardo lorque ahora salo a li callo

- 130-

Entrada - 1155 hison iP aregurea por el labajador, de

porto dol soñor GRULION de la Hajullos Loniricana. TAPIA 1100

quo el embajados no untá y que el puode atendorlo. Despues l

GRULLON CORMARO BalUAn a TIPIA y alco yun iyer

1LOEÓ y querla

avisarlo a MARCIO 81 do que estaja lista la pelicula do nosodros

O BOA CAÑA BLIVA pArO MACOS LaO FrUODaS. TAPIA diCe que MARCIO

Bleno mos de 15 dido nu santo condaço. GRULlON que osta tardo

a 1no anda van a tenor la exresición de la polla la para que.

---

## Page 23

4-00000

.?..

**

10%0

a.. la veano Tilli aclara que MIRCIù tieno nea y sicalo en

•Santo Conico GAVilos Cooda que la serina

lasnda a0 habla

venido para 0cl. TUPIl que no que sigue allit j que hay cono

dies o dooo compañeros dominioanos a las custoronelas que hay

y tione coupromisos con cenas, reundonos, oto. y que veron la

forna do rounirse pronto, lea: nos M0 MiGO (?) saluda a FRINK

GRULLA COmiNO Cate dico que la sanda saludos VICTOR J qUe

unoche IlugHó. M150 dico que hoy recibió una carta do PILLO

y Ir d11oc que tu ventas para ded y que lba a tratar en Goberna-

01ón lo de la Visa. GRUION dico que ya sa la dieron y ya 10s

avisó por cuulo y que hoy vau a conos la oxhibición de la -

polloula in el condoulalo do los Productoros do la avonida

Divia13n d01 corto a las sola do la tardo, dico Sratarí do

ostar allí puos conoco al iujaro GRULLOX que trato do llovar

a todos los que pueda

pude ea una palicula "my nucatra y a1

a1J0 Go ofInco estoy en Al llotoi leforra. ln os ol Coronol MARCOs

JONGE MORENO y dice quo tubUl el lo puOdo Ilacar a su cosa

01 19-12-92. GRILLON que nutr Diero- 183-

183-

ita.

Entenda, - 1208 hrs,- MIGAdo saludo a MiNI y pregunta por

MARTIN. Pata dice que senba do salir y lo avisa ue ya asta

vivierdo da muevo en lo0 apartarentos carren pues antos vivis

dOS ariOS allÍ. MIGNON conoce a la dueña de los apartariensas o

sen deña CAMER y 10 belor que tiere TERe ra que tiene su o

tranquilidad de espiritu y no es caductadora de nada y adorila

orus uuy intolliente para llovar bion las cosas. TARE da las

tracias y dico quo presiaumenta por eso lo higa. IJENON rido

¡ICA O NARINÀ a SU rEgrOSO quE lO 1laJO y que dogea a MeRE que

soduelva sua problemas de als hijos y su vuolva a casar y carita

do tora y dico que olla se va a fía do nos para la patria. tre

( nojo ¿res)

---

## Page 24

14-0000

237

234-

35%-

1300 ...

a. lo dá cuato cabur que se val y crue que ya todo cati on oalua.

¡GNos creo quo lo pueda tocar alruna bala. TiRl que nara de

ag0 pues ella haco poco rucrono y rucontró aquallo suy distinto.

SIGNO! pregunta

cual os la lupresión quo TiRi tras de alld.

¿sta dice que " .. bunno.. puro surd loslla, tiono la uayorfn".

NIGRON que entonces noda hay que habiar" y cono tu sabes que

JUAN y JÓ soros como cos hermanos, tu puedos tenor la abroluta

SOFUrIdad y 0BO NO tO 10 diER pOr hoblar, porque a al no 10

gustu hablar muchos que el algo surdo lucer por ti, lo haré".

Tent: le dia lis craclis.

"IG!CH acinEn " y con todo justicia

Porque

sibe cobo lIGliol de llora con 101 Mud. do coninicanos. MaGIoN

sigue oirroiendo su ayuda y coruntas " colues. • JUIN lo primaro

que no via decido. airu vieja - porque as1 de dico "vIrja"-

y alentato ugul y di 10 que tu gulorea, aut lo quo yo pueda .

hacer por ti Ill: basta y subra que ard madre y tongas dos

ls jos para que yo te iyude con todo ni corasón. TUlli que cracias

j graciago. araclio.o 217-

*Bloqueado. - 221-

Sal1dao- 1215 tria- Coronel Callineo pire envion un

agento do seguros de la alli para que roan su nuto y llenar los

roquialtos o bion pasar a su domicilio yu. es llerodoto 30-102

5 con talirono 15-96-23. ll tona nota y ofreco envur al açanto.

- 2510

"trada, - 1234 hrE.- 18 pOr el COrLOJONGE HORENO. TIPLI

dico que no oatl. lE ca sollA -poro antes dijo que era HIRoslavi-

y pregunti cono estão FilIa dico que baul nge la otra nosto ...

---

## Page 25

324-

355-

405-

1290

... olla no se quiso doralo con dl, SINII dier que cosio querla

"que no acuesara contico al alli entala ni hijo, y ademia estabas

muy vorracho y frule una plutola qun lasta de bulasos lo quarlea

dar al perro..'" hasta no pualato blua capantuda y usdo ••hay.

on la nairo.." TIfIl al recuorda alco do doc y tuvo que deoirlo

a un cholar du tuxl en la oullo que so llovara su auto a su

casa porqué "yo ya no podia masojar". SONIl d1o0 que • el que

ostabaa muy ancabronado y no sibla quo hacoro y que de acaba do

camblas de casa y au nuuro tellfono u8 43-22-67 y qua lo aviao

LO ElaDO al COrIOlORENO y que alguno do ollor lo presto $500.00

paro noabar de cardtarde o au departaiento nuaro. TAlli cuta .

a1ll un centaro y ostán en espora de quo 1luçuo "la pagu". - 324-

Entralo 1240 hroo- lu de li aconcia lo Viajes Ultratar

l'apiosa para diços o requisitos do vion. "AlIA proporciona 1os

datos. - 355-

salidns ocupadas y sin contostación. - 405-

Intradios 1250 lrg.- 1S con su ador TORITA pura disculparo

so quo ajor so lo pudo hablas puro anduvo por la Univeraidad.

TIil'S

pos astor esporando su Llanada no sa118 del Botul. 10" 8o

OjO1118 CARD050 Y dãOO que ANdUVO CON NGTL. Y COn LONEL y que

despues del futbol ao dueron a cusa do lioNEl y pregunta a1

tiono dinoro gun lo prosto. TeRi dice que no la has pagado.

•CARDOsO pecasiti dinuro para con;rusa risatos y quiere que TERE

aunque soa consiEu dinoro prostado. TulE trataro do vor a1

conaique porçuo ella

tambien sultir couprarse sapatos CARDOSO

si consigue el dioro plar la 1lum antes do lao ainco y rodia

+1 17-91-00.-479-

(hoja c1n00)

---

## Page 26

8790

498-

516=

568-

615-

631-

1270

Sallano- GUz plac comunicarso a papelerlo. lE dio0 quo

tirdo porque la soñora sa116 s conor.- 122-

Ha11ado- Guzill precunta por ol lic. MunIuulzo in d10o qu

Ba110 a coner y no tarda y olla lo Ilacarl on cuanto llogua.

GUIlL:: que 898 satos do las dos porque lou pasaportes que dijo

MARTillá que lba a onvlar no has LleGadO y 103 00tA pajarando

para sus visua de corteslo tai como lo traiasou on la muñana.

38° va i invaticar iso y dispues le avisarl. - 516-

taitradn,- 1325 hroo- CHlSTIll con Elül y con ME para

8430r di Du von Mis fardo ¿ de ponen a "cotorrenr" subru vestidor

y dandoß que tiemos - 562-

salirla al 24-51-29 - 1333 hUB.- MiRINA CON MIGHON

HOTA

aviour quo ya catá al Coronal lA TICa! rAdard on las oficinas

porO al lo quierO LLacT a au Oiga 08 01 45-08-23 y que hay

otro al do su rucanera jaro do sucurre baia que sánero 08,

y yun lo llogrion dos crotas y una us para el intronito de lao

Actividartes de alta inpacialicación duconeo del Instituto -

Politconico incioual y otis do sunto Donirço que croo que na

1a11:lao (Instituto do Carotologla) - MIMA pregunto el

tulttuno delutricida.ir qui++ 11 13-57-90--631-

Salida a1 19-57-00.- 1345 irso- (Nutrielon) - daRlil proGunta

JOE OL DE GARCI: LATRONI. ME UICO GUA BB:OTO UN DOGONEO, MARINA

duor: y cosphas cuelen - 684

(hoJo se1s)

---

## Page 27

6940

692÷

695-

750-

767-

510-

855-

1000

• 7.

Frendo sun contratación. =Gg2-

Entrada.- IF por FIDIRI, - ja 0u118 - 695-

Entrada.-

1602 lurs.--s111 sontostac1811, = 750-

Salldi il 13-21-12. - 1720 hra, - GUZILVi progliata por ol

LICO ENNIUUIZO NE UICO que reGreSa un ula bOrA, GUALAN lo

volyers a 1lazar - 76,-

Salida al 15007-30,- 1725 hrgio CHiliNi preguenta por el

DI. SCIO:KER. NE cilcA que es la ext.808 puro no contosta. GuiAr

pida so le digo que le 113r9. - 810-

Entraduo- 1729 hisa- PERE proguta que guiaron oon ella.

GUZI" dico que fud don PUNi quion lo Ilamo y juioro sabor s1

rOCUgIÓ CÙ SUbIU que 1A 1ã8 VIDIRI, TIRE l0 tiOno on ol crurto

y que despuou lo iban a docir con quion hablo que mandarlo.

Trai progusta al la manja 210gg. TURE no sabo puca alla acabad

de Ilegar. dunili que endoucos dailana van a uandar oso sobro

con TAPII y GUA d891 sacrado. Till: dlos que ilone un sello de

la COPREDiLO GUiNEi: QUe 831 08-- 855-

Entrada,- 1730 irs.- IP saluda a CUZull y propinto que

van n touar "la fila", Dialli osti agul trabajando y suu por

oso lland a liDlill jara socoger un sobro, poro ya ao solucionó.

NE al lo da stunpo 10 es "ra jara tonas un enfd - 810-

(007.-12- 21208-66)

---

## Page 28

4-00000

•000

18-

4889

ELALIJARA DOSINICANi O 28-77-95.

2 rayo 06.

12-12-122=

2755-1829 hra.-

Salida a1 18-07-00.- 1755 hrs.- GULUN pregunta por ol

DI. SCICKER - alI contestación. - 180 ..

Salida a1 13-21-22.- 1510 hrs.- GUilli proguata sor 0l:.

LIco ENHIQUi. H dico que espore un momento. Despues ENRIQUiZ

so disculpa con "al doctor GUDiN porque rosulta que la camio-

neta del banco chocó y alli iban las personas que la entregarias

los pasaportes. GUillAN dico que do uso queria avisar pues.

llegaron a vorlo a las dos l' cinco con los pasaportea y ya so

los dio la viga por un año con entrida y salido y as1 que ya no

hay problema y no se les cobrá ningún centavo y canblando do

tena pobro el apunto nun lo consulta fu la MaJana, RidiTAtil que

lo tieno pendiente pero uno de los quo contalonó para eso se

entarmo

pero nailara sin falta so la informa y jo recuerda que

es sobro los datos do CINTINA PORTIlLi ( deL LIC EUSTAQUIO

CORTINI L'OUTILLO do quen piden istos confidoncialos pari ol

gobierno doutnicano) Cualir que si y que tiene entondido quo

uno de los buruanos do CORTI: es diroctor do la financiora.

'ERRIQUE ya a pedir mayoros datos y mañana se los inforaará.

GUAUN canula de tema ? preminta al fué a vor al Dr. SCHliKER.

FIlTRa diCo que 10, polo que lo COnsIgulo la ClEa Con SAiCIEL

MINELÁS (d01 IBSTE) y sO BO l0 puio comunicar porquo tivo que

atender a la dolunación bolsa y todo el dia estuvo con ellos.

CURIU% que entoncos mañana lo llanari, = 4%= (hoja uno)

---

## Page 29

14-00000

44=

75÷

1220

4980

•o.2oa

salida sin contestaciói. - varias veces.- y ocugado. -75-

salida al 10-52-80, - 1024 irso- (Seglios)- GUZlt pIdo

comunicarse

Pareloria, preguntar por LEchIli GiLIS. lE d100

quo esjere un domento. Dospues lE dice que nadie contesta y s1

quiero lo puado dor tocado. GUILi que le diga que le llane a

13 eribajada. - 122-

• Entrada, - LUCHITA. con su anor GUALlY fara disculparao que

a ja un salla a comor y haco rato ya 1ba de salida y que

ahora que lo

vea

In diri cono hacorlo para le llame sin pro-

blenas. Guaria pugurá por "1la a ias

¿deda y addos chula".-134~

(.02.-L2=2 nayo 66)

---

## Page 30

- .

00-

04-

110

23-

42=

55-

.1.0

3 nayo 66.

120:12 1230:

0910-1123 hr8.

lintrada sin contostación. - 04-

Salida al 30-6ú-50.- 0010 hrs.- Montinali ¡ropunto por ou

AHOS AULANDO RODNIGUo poro le Insernar que no e8t9.- 11-

Salida, o HORTESIA con au otro anor NiTiL para reprocharlo

quo ayer la cojó esporando. Rifial no pudo y se citan para

Sallda al 22-dia29,- 094% irao- MORIUNSIl profuita por::

HCRHANDERO DASPUOS GUAUN PreGUntA A INADES st yo tiene

108

cosas del Coronnl. Dato dico que nu que hasta suiana jasará

a dejarior, GUDil que pase hoy por la framulcia do los olga-

1511108. - 43-

-locina rescolgada y salida ocujada. - 55-

Entracia,- 1030 lrg.- Curonei FiRinduÓ saluda a MUlIN y

•pido dilga a don liNi que no podrá llegar a la obajada porquo

B12Un enterno. Dospues GULll dico que de cuido por el ral

¿lonpo y quu ai a1r0 do ofrveo de vandari ardado y aduras hay

unu Invitación de la Procliencla do la Ropibiles para la Sosa

a jura do le bandores el dia 5 an al sucalo do la olsinr,o 80o

(soja uno)

---

## Page 31

14-00000

50-

128-

18?=

1098

falida al 12-25-79, - 1036 hrs,- (Cficina Internacional

col trabajo) - ChuITi do parto de GUilli pido laulas con o1

Diruotor o Sub-Direator. Mi dico que raporo un mononto.

DeSpHOs GUZILI DAluda a GELILDO DI IELLO EUCLI Direotor joneral

y diou que acaban do ruilbir un oficio do li Canollioria de

Santo boninço paru culioltar la inacripción dol sofor PADIO

HOT: ¡D:ILLO que 's litrector Goneral do servicios do Frilnoa

y rondatro du Dosocupados dol lindatario dol Irabajo y.

quo.

figura cono candidato dos palo al curso rocional do lou s0rv1010

de nuploda en el leró pira ol ens de acuuto y quiore saber s1

hay que: rancar alcán oftaio o noto. ChOLi qui aolo una nota

confirmasalo esta conversación toldionica y que por vuolta de

corroo notifiquo a santo lomingo que us indiopongablo que ol

cobierno no mndo los formularios capecíficos, Guari alco ya

donorlos en lo cino y se 1n8 podIá proporcionar. EBOLI quo osta

bión y quo el adestrao mandard un cible a Glicura pottficando

esto ingerso para continuar con los forcularlos en la solocodon

do candidatos. GU:C1: que Erac1uy, 129-

calida, - (117 Franco) - Glitua presinta ol Prolo 700 nuo

ruta tieno. lá quo 09 al 702 y salo listcool, Y,-larfao Misa y

Enjo cartoo jurvos, olornos, cabaron y durancos y 300ta 01 18

do 10j0 09 4l 702 poro Muspuca caublù a1 700 sin IlogAr a Misa. -

- 142-

Intradico 1051 hrao l6 seoroturlo do la Fubajado do Corea

a la arporanta en lus comeratales de la ter fora do ragne 5

quero abane anando en lia lona do posoulda proaddenelalo BaLN

¡dee gio do riodelanos eol al prdioro do jurso, poro no do .o

( laradia 110a)

---

## Page 32

168-

175-

157.

301)-

221-

247=

• .

•• 3.00

1853

a.. seDo que sila

ea la fura de pososión, te que iuloro sabor

la fecha pura podos andar una dolegació: du su puls o ora

toma. Galli offuco counalenroolo a su tiemo. ll que crualna.

- 1ú5-

Salida n1 03 por la horio- 1053 lira,- y bocina descolgada.

• 173-

jalidn al Dl.- 1050 hra,o a1n contogración - 1i2- IlllliA

doBea so lo aurorno sobre unão llannias que bioderos a

santo

Dominio desjuna un 29 de abrilo Il que 1iase a1 19-03-20.- 107-

Salida 11 18052-2000 1050 hruo- sin Condestacióno- 1260

MAlTa ciegan sobor al lugardo do llandas du lasea alatancta

a carito iurineo a partir dol 29 do abril casado. la di0o que

necositan quo ollos den las fuchas y lugars a donde lloraron.

•20?=

salidn, ll pregunda ol tolasono do la incaila Dry. la que

00 01 27-31-27- 271-

Entrecia- 1102 Roboo M do una Rioneda de Vlajeo pide da8oa

para visa a pasaporto sustound. Tulli le progorciona 100 sogulalo

100.0 297-

#allda 41 43-57050.- 1105 seseo duRisi prugunta sobre ol

apito o podido para of coronel Puloaticio lo dder que endiola so

MaGRA la MORa y UuA RaNdO a Su OUfUI O d0$ CLACO A FOCOgEr ol

pendio on laa oftaluda do Plaçonal san infosso au al idco lao.

=267-

(1099 8799)

---

## Page 33

14-00000

.01.

1088

saldia ocuisido. - 27%-

374=

Salida n1 19-j6-10 - 1111 hro - nin contestrolón. - ocupado.

- 300- (Instituto do Cardiolocla) = GUILiN progunta por ol

DIO TEGURO dO ConDulta iXtora. !l dlce que "sjoro u Donesto.

=J4G= 110 GiLLIDN Bulado a PROUIRO y prefunta como su alonto.

lieto dice que yo un poco nefor. PiGliNO nue lay zun broer.

planos paru 15 añana o ducalulodo y qui né ponga do scuoro

con surivi quo tlono auto. y percuta si lo ha 1luçado algo para ":

BIO GRULION QUO

solo una corruspondonela do crudito aduontivo

FIGURO Qun M1 Oa 491 Be 10 TOOdA Y 00 10 11000. DeSPUOS PEGUENC

saluda a TiPIlo tota progunto con quier: comento lo do la osta

nocho ¿do asdiuvioron" oon lao vlojas", PrúliRO dio0 que 00n

nadio. TilIA Alce que ajor le Ilano la mujos MOSa" (SONIA)

y un laz que organizarãn pura vurla unñiana "ruce oroo quo toda-

vio call porracha" - slano - duodan do verso sañana a las 01080

GRULLO: le Intorno die torblos: lug un sobro do la Direcolon

n lolias doteo y do trineación lura poelr datos do aun bosno

parn su crollio eccentiro

y man 0stl flinado por ol Vicollintitro

ansera y pido

eo la Ilevo para vor ond nounto y Ilelis di cueatlorardo.12

119-

123=

SALAA iL DEGlIOSO- 1191 ArBO- CALIITA COn HTCIR MSDON

¡ui naricini poro sabro al do voss doy poi la tardo. licetor

dA V'I1BU A dOjATÃO AMMO CCOA quO l0 MIOpATON a SILYANOA (RENDEN)

- 141e0

(itoja 81:9850)

---

## Page 34

44:00

• 198

EaÉrOCA.- 1123 ArDo- LiP de La MiCOSAD ¡regunta por PIriA.

ClOTin dice que espore. despues ll' orbrador de isrsil para

saber si pudla paani a dojar sus recibos. Ti:ll dico que nato

muy flojo de dinero y lo paguel los trna juntos en cuauso llogro

su chiguro lo yun oi reinnento pe que al on acuculan troa

reolbos se la dará do baJa, IN Ii dIco que se las lloro juntos.

ME 2ie es cúflo1l loculluario no pur teléfono, PiiIi que untos

do vonto lo lloro para preparas su d11e5o - 169=

1.05.-12-3 14y.40)

---

## Page 35

14-00000

02.00

1590

1100

60=

4004001.-

LIAN BIONICA: - 20-77-330

3 sayo 66

12012-12%

1218-134% h5a.

Entrada sin contostaoion fuera y bloqueado. - 15-

=...

Salida: a1 35-56-08.- 1215 ircon (061olalla Nayor de Gobor

1016n CUasy procunte por in Liconclud MONTinO para enlu-

darla y avisarli que ayar lo mande unna notin. MONTERO 1100

apore un nonosto. despues la diou quo aobre suy potiotonos

BA dO INTACTO JORGE GARCIA BO URtA LocalizandO y CIDO que

para rañino nti liato y de l00 otros irca su ratán biclondo

109 aficioo y untano diano jurdos pasar por ollos. GUZHIN 1u0

Ine favor y que aubre todo ol del dobilno dol agrolado m1l1taro

salida aln contestación. - 60-

¿neradao- lajá dudoo in lago do da solora AViER precunta

por Prusá Tillà para puludarlo y exulcar que el pagunto que

que entonces el va a inforar u culacionca porque ol no va a

nelir uns azoneraolin de fuero diplontico on un bulto

gur cortiana una cosa siuplo ja gio juodor ercas que ostoy

cotlondo sultrabaino y el tuora ropa o alruna coda do comar lo

aarlia irro on uso caso se llenen ir ligar corea lo ail dolares

ce dejenato jur usa sionio traspa pura caceria. dir que antonces

de todos 10108 5810100. - 53-

( hoja uno)

---

## Page 36

830

870

980

- 112∞

117=

12.40

1310

2100

Entrada sin cantostaclório 5n-

4291

EntradiDO 1309 iBOO l prOGUntA jOr TIMESITA Mil. TIFIA

dido que rapese a cortin, = 18-

• (Centro do Cajaoltaoion) -

TiRE Pido pruguata 105 al maradio TiNi: llioo costan.o 112-

calida sin contralu018n. = 117-

salidi di iñadidoo 1210 Asiao SaliTis progunta el procio

de los cabintos que vio el daurele mu loverados. lE yun

silló a coaus al personal y pa nojor que Ilaro ma tardo porquo

al?a n0 anbco- 12:0

estÁ y run 51 deja arcado - 1,11-

salida seriada.- y rin contratholar,- 111-

¡segunda dudo dro astado do blico tlacon minatos facillires.

- Y Islin da simiortas. - 21n-

GUnte :UF la señora Alite dia parti sulumulio lata dico que

mañana pueden posar pur alda para lluvirla a caralelocia y lo

den una Findendo a Bloco blicon cla arpostoricloo- 2i8o (h01s dos:

---

## Page 37

2'ilo

261-

286=

220-

307-

1904

0.3.00

introdro- 1330 156o-il' do 10 iglo acurta "llltar do 10

¡ribijada en Vonozuula, qutero sionr o1 el crogado dilitar

do la ponlilcana ye a 18 a 1n :8001ac1er dn ágregado talltaros.

Banloi csco que no oután los allitarro y que dañana le podrá

Inturno ts quu rubiilta que votan on reunión los agregados

Y 10 vatle ebjerando, MuIla va i tritar do localisarlo para

darlo

su creado.-lF quo olli obtil 0n 01 11-34-20.- 261-

Sulida al 42-1:-220- 1333 lrB. - PulINA progunta pos

el coronol truco sonãi acaso. ln incitis dion que no está.

1U)

ua Turü ilá j a1c0 que Ilacaron de la inociación de -

-

¡cregados ililltaros y que los estan osperarelo o que 11a130 81

14-3ú-20. INVilá que not? Dius. -286-

Salica a1 00 jos 10 1080, - 1334 irs.- 230-

Salida ni 19-02-90 - 1337 Argo- (ELlès Coperador)- CARNITA

mento por el sener 20L Olio de lu ofiulna du Turisgo. lừ dico

que vapore la sonorta iosputo lu dios que do estí. - 307-

Mirado- 1335 hrooo le por Cultro MClTITald dico yun

10 ISTÃO iF LIELÄLY (?) pOLIAta ORtONCUA pOr PAPLI. MURTINSIA

y jangunta COLO eStÍ la farillo. PilL: que bIeno LIBOMY dico

qUe Vil i GAndaS O BU MUjOSA a lUntO MiCO a quO la opuron

al11 porque aal si stericooon Las trusquilidad y aquí tieno

cucius pinbleras y qulore: arreglor los encurentos sacando

pasaporte duridracino. tilli lado que le hay problues y que ol

taino quo bicos un perileo paris gua ou copuan salga a sucando

05? 2076 000

( noJa troa)

---

## Page 38

14-00000

3530

372-

391-

410.

414-

419-

$37-

... 4.∞

es sejor que se leimilon bler. o seçue un pasaporte sextcano

do la alia, porque sino despues van a descultir ol trico do

que cuando liesó o donde esté la visa io la ntila, etc. y hay

que aclarar que olla nació en México. LIUONLY quo está bion y

pregunsa si Talli salo de vacacianos, Mili dioo que no podra

SAliT. LIDONEY El algO SO la OfTaCe Le IlarrI ni ln oribajada.

- 3530

Entrara, - 1342 hro- lE con su auor PiDlla pera avisarlo

que so rocal ver hagti sas tarde porquo tione nucho trabajo.

• 37200

Salida oujida. 381m

Salidn al 11-94-20. - 1344 hrs.- ladIna procunto for tirla

prinaro y aus sus por lu sudora dlud. li dlce que espera. un

MoDentro- YinIR! escora y cuolga. - 110-

Salida actuada. - 414-

intrata sin contostacion. - 419-

Entrada.- Rum: PIALLO pregunta por TaRd tERA. HORTENSII

dico que espero lu molusto. Pas ues POsi cice a TElli que lo

objero la mosiento en unos 10 o 12 ainutos para poner unas cosas

al escritorio de Tilla y de Guerra 137-

Entrado- lE por PRuiro PILLO dico que no estfo tu 2a

MATICHA SISTIRE DA PANÍA É PADORA Me FRAGÃ TULIA) 5 SUiZO A

---

## Page 39

14-00000

00-

24-

30-

47-

5001

22-77-95.

3 rayo 66o

L2-112-1250

1721-1730 159.-

Salidia 111 45-98-23. - 1724 hrs.- GUZMIl saluda a la niña .

AURORI y jrugunta por au papá el Coronal MIURICIO FERVADEZ. .

Esta dice que está en el baño, Dospuno doda rostrA ( esposa do

PERMADER) dice que cajero un nononto, Luego GuislN progunta a

•CHIPU" PIrANDrE como se diente. Este dico que bien. GumuN

pregunte i1 puodo mandar a su hijo CinIos por los cosas o GUZIEN

miedo vi por ollas. FERIANDEZ que tejor piya el porque CARLOS

10 1StA. GUZIlA" que está binT- 24-

Salida, - GUAMIN profunda por la soñorita. 1f dica que

lo 11ario al otro tolefono. - 30=

Salida a1 43-58-77.-1730 hrs,- (Importadora Mercantil -

dioxican) - GUziAl pregunta e1 ya tiene liato el podido del

COTONEL FERNDIDE". ME dico suo eI: cinco minuios estará liato.

GUZILy mandara a su cholor con una tarjeta a recoger todo.

¡ que ustá bien y qua es Digonal san Antonto 1116-sugundo 21so..

-17-

Intraia sin contestacion. - 51-

---(15= 12- 3 10y.66)

---

## Page 40

4-00000

51-

60-

. 86-=

90-

113-

188-

5001-

CHLAJATA DUNINICAN - 29-77-3.

e mayo ili.

12-112-123-

: 0330-3033 hrs.-

Saildas osuradao. - 60-

Saildo al 22-62-19 - 9030 109. - MtM Plugunta a NeWCDEZ

a1 natini se von o puedo casar hoy à da oubaduda. Messer"radra

lasar a voilo ans tarro e un cuirto dol intolo GUill dice quo

ya no nat? ti al hotel alin en un departoronto

de la callo l'oten

#347-5. 10a2d51rk posaril nañano ontre dios a onen a verlo -86a.

1:sitaioi0a- 0933 liro- ¡ile jor ol horarlo du uterición de parte

de li Voliovagon do déstro. Ciao: que do iltas a dos do lunos a:

VIOTIMs 801246186.-10-

50111a a1 35-51-37. 0040 hob.- G0al019 dossan Cornr 100

ejonpiaros du la Cartilla Al loMitiCi racelta por LEONARDO -

INNI 3. 10 ulco que so lo parará vi :ultio a la peraona que

Bo rie: 25: dio 104 Prei1rioA. -113-

Entraia - 00%5 hrdoli reclara ol page de ronta de los -

oficinoe donde osta la Tabijada y se dobe il nos de abril y el

mes que curar. Gliali no sibe de eso y os nefor llanar el Juorea

( noja dos)

---

## Page 41

4-00000

e :

127-

152-

163-

172-

177-

187-

sece

0003.0

Salida al 10-0i-17. - 1000 lisBo- CAl!'III pregunta por

MIGUEL MERANDIZO NE que ha de

Der HIGUE GUÁNEA pero no ostá.

•CAlaIta dice que hay un oncarço que eltrogarla y que so

conjuntquo

a la ambojada. iI que o0tá b1nn. - 152-

intrada.- 1013 lua.- 1F

g'OF GUZIAN

parir avisar que la

persona uncargada do surtir 108 cartillia diplomitiono no -

contusta su toltiono y trabará de nstarle llorando pora surtir

su pedido. - 163-.

ENtRANDO- 1015 BEB. - DIO CABR!!A BOLUdO D GULIUN y PrOgUNtA

por TuPIdo GURil dico quo no estl. Conalle quere do 11aanr hoy

con TI:IA para ol dounto de una carta que le 1bn i haour. GUriaN

¿iIi a T'llIA cobre su agunto, CiBlial 1100 peo pagará como a

la una il la ribajada. 172-

Intrada - ME proputa la dirocción del CorBulado. MirINi

ao os MInEn 21? 09r1na ern Vallado14dl. - 177-

Intadio MIGUTE, GONGILE! su reporta y arecunta por CARMITA.

lati dice que alla lo lionó para aulaario quo tiono una carto

yun litio de con que lo quiere entrecie totaL pasara

• la

enbolada. - 187-

Sabida al 11065-700- 1032 ReBan YiMIlli con au amdes VICTORII

para gaber en que tais li novela do la

sirvienta.. bla. bla..-

- Y despues comentas sobre al nol tleejo que lace

y que 11U00O

mucho " al carajo".- bla.. bloco tipori e e1u18 carta de 988

mamá que astá 0n canto Poaliço y que so stonto onforia do la

( hoja troa)

---

## Page 42

14-00000

817-

355

ito.

..4.-

sialldo acupada. 253-

AtandO,-lit OUN MARINI para sabor al lia Llanado MARCOS.

Esta dioe que no j corentan lo do una julicula de DOLORES dEL NIo.

269-

- .

66)

---

## Page 43

14-00000

77-

04-

27-

102=

1!16-

5000

ECOJADA DO1O0Ee aa 25-77-85.

A rayn 660

1-ir6a

1110-1236 1:9.-

- 1l0jnado.- 00-

Mslinla nl la-i3oi0a- 1115 aloon (Vinda d Clala 13 pido-

commloarne d crpillcl01de 19 110e s

cale ocurada la,linoa

J yuer s1 pes urn. 10 jin vatf biurion

1091429

c:0l9%.o 77-

Ticcadion 1125 Lrgoo 10' con ddiTil

iiru aaludorän y corentar

aubin

ul ral tiopo que baz ca la cludal l qpedas d0 V0r3o.1430

#:: 89300-314-

"ntrudal, a11JU Mis.n 10 Mor ui Cnronel JOiGE 209230. MARTNI

dier que no laa linaauc.- 97-

Entrado o là 105 dl coronol duti, t11ál dlee qque no lis

Ilogaulo é sodo eral polritizo- 103-

Salldi ai 1ia3cad0 - 1133 103.- (riras y cin)- Nº otra voa

por el dopart.u oate

r EfelENRASaSl, «P dico que caiero un

meontoo- deajdog clolt- 1400

s1l10 a8 1:-50 400- 1137 kido- (Vl.aa)- 10 gulese sejortir

qiu el pufrigerados que cumpool daarail dudo duinicoo- iif eiioo

que docoro un mosentia a cleldir, - 190

(lin,lu uno)

---

## Page 44

14-00000

198-

247-

390.-

3134-

-C66

-Gili

..2.-

5000

questendo eritir 0l saunto de su rofricodidor y saile dr laco

lil comentoncios al donartaaanto poro

nadlo contunta dispues cuolen. - 247-

silicio sli centestagion a y ucrpa:lu. - 319-

etradnon 1193 lirgo- UF ron LallA para anbor o1 ha 1lorado

11e9010 haj cn la caudni y ge aloen que as lianto Domarço

5a1900 al 12011-3300 1157 lego- (Patrolteadora) - CARMITA

Dogines corre con 1000e fel do la vos cia Morieón) para subor:

La torrio de doculizirio " ilo lo la Viito i Vis a VEl J1 aL

indicons

case que racdo MarB'9 que lo diga quo lo lliur a

al 4: 299-30 12-09-25 0 13-55-15 jore lo dis que potirá do 3010

a oclio do la mache Y loro caror dito lo dãra qu. es di cuñuro dol

otti creo que ya no

-H -01: 1010.92.05

---

## Page 45

14-00000

4240

40416-

1114%=

465-

515-

576-

502-

5000.

.003.0

dico qun "siere un borinto. Despues. Til: Antorro que yu lo

d1jo a Tilli le haga le carto, y purdo rasos por olla a odo do

la sula y riodin. CAmEla, que está biesa- 813-

intIncia ll por ol corI JONGio MiNIni dico que so ho

llorado,- 417-

sallido- (Despacho borell)- Mesi, insul sabor sobre 10s

departantos que no contin coal tomato a lu rebajada Donlulaano.

No dico due ya de crataros. 460-

Salida venjaraon y aln onnerstics? -515-

introdon il siVAla du reporta, latd dico que lo 11066

Uni custa do CÓdito educatiVO jarO disciO 10 La la 1108000.

AVAlia tiene deado l'obrero que N0 Tacis Alberos y que 141201 12

y dio lectura do su oritonido do la cuii picon rindi una dicia

raells donre suo Incrudos du poutarocadio y en quo lospitalos

patí haciado dias

survicion, con finis io renovas contrato do

Salleion (cribajado do Caltijo dur, conflica la astatonola

do PI FINLLO para viultin al Subagaico do odo pola hoy va la

tundo a la ruiniro invitada, li que esta s1r:o= 603-

hose tre!

---

## Page 46

14-00000

• 605.

622- :

650-

.....

678-

620-

..l:.a

iedo

cable data li milajado. lE que

no hus 1114010g que line da 10-0406.- 6900.:

talia, 01. 19019006o- MalTid Eroguntie al luty algún Cablo

1or acun doro eules al tag abcune villon cara la cabaleda.

..

---

## Page 47

14-00000

00-

05-

310

i:2-

45-

219: 7:1

98-77-95

0a1ar

50:08

Lai:-t17-

1259-159? 3=5.-

Dallun sia Cortesticléno - 95-

ACROCE

se 1o tinvi dl plorang pore goy so turco dinero.-31o

rica per di i 60808 Jintasa 13=

ua bariaia cono todo dominicono des io poté stronon que raso

jor plio fera dicoor mior Cittire Grabetibellio PAPyA AlCe 1120

circa y per di sado le l55e

RICle que tireo dua cie in seo due sia sairo il: que ad aidio

La risi erco talli ditsaces no du a callo dinedo a rigido diTà

(1:0j= 12:0)

---

## Page 48

14-00000

69-

74=

790

25-

11!10

Intrada.à ll agutrecado. Pia

5E28

Entraria. !F por GUiJill. MORTITSiA alor qua ya su116 y

tal ves rigroso lay tundeo du que lo diga que llais lo soñorita

GULIS ( CHELITO GALiS aMOS do (UZl) 72-

IntrOdo.- 1320 BiB.- REIN: FIATLO PIOMUNtO pOr GUELAN.

MARINA dICO 2110 j7 3a118 y qu0 50080B3 A1 SatO. FIALLO que

entonces con IrRiSITA. Duapues fTS:LO precunto a THE al fernind

ol toxto dol monoaje cifrado dur hictaron anooho con Llorte.

TERO de 10 entrada ya s BUrla FINUO que sos a1 no so ta

envindo, porque conbien dall en ol cocritorio de GUILli... CONTAM,

- tuera - 25-

intrados FINLLO continua oon TIN? y pide vaa si GUIMN

comparó al tosto corrocido en la jurto final dol dablo y 10!

ae sofiare a una constancia confurtalento presuntada por virtos

palnes talas cono ircontino, Bollula, Istl, Coloebla, Panasão

Verozando y bocánicanas polcur yo no sa al al corregir puse todos

1os pisisas. Mil" va o reTIsar eso porgin lla d0 secuorda laber

1326 1rão

Intraino-"Iiluò continui con mni o tulaluto que ves esa

coria corrugida el al escritorio de GUilti von al hay otros

papelos in ir.

15101201 alataaa corricelons porque turo jue

haya ositido alana oisa al el cablo 1 sur tambien conta bajo

su cuatoria lanta die lIrae AUTAl Y 9l Cure que so 110ju0 108

nota en almuna do las cartas del marritanto, port quo este

DIANO -PASUOS TIALLI dICE a SiTIA MU DijisdO las COCalerãO DO

salte un pongamlinto dra cradable sero sie no tuvo tlesgo de

(haga ana)

---

## Page 49

4-00000

165-

203-

:0g

•.03.0

01.0078916 87 CLAVA QUO MOJÓ BUUTO DU ESCrITOTIO, YA YUU TIPIA

radoriars cuardio en dina ruandos an le lluvo de cuernandoo

para que ¡rojorcionara li claro dol dnacifrador, entonces dub18

GuZiLIs tener cuidado de oso tribajo en la intoligoncia do que

PAPTI tambini se diuro ciunta do uso tribajo, para no preatarao

• 1a1?9

laterritacion do TAFI: dice que " yu lo tento a notod

•on un concerto domatado elovado para dejar so andar con niñorlas.

y cualgador ces que aucoda, quiore quei pono aun Jonas yo p50=

cunta=e poniue ful, 11 tundró parren ponear ual de 196id", o 80a

que pese ni os ustod uio de 103 honbrus que he conocido y ustod

lo sabe a sucis acablonia el su preacucla y au si ausosoda.

REN: dice ;ãe dado a las circunotanciaa du sus ausonclas quioro

toner en Mi!T: un unilgo. MiIA sto j dice que al puodo dopositas

todo la refianza que gualo y quo al trubajera junto y de reuerdo

Y TUS DO 50F el tilO que anda Con MinUriNG y diuD COSDA. RENE

10 a:no t69d005 8919 concordas - 165o

Intradas- 1329 hrs.- 19 cos YiDIla para hados planto a

3al1r a

Donde 105 o catilo por la unche pritro las autisna do a

1n dijera que el cablo que lo arcali en la bajarre a poeas y a1

A laa coo no la llogido cua por 81o quo ensoidea l0 cundo

en 10: misIl a ipharnadión qua "a on dondo estan alorito.

TIR!' qué don R'Ni lo dIJO que rorionro de cublo al cotaba

conjanto do 10s paloco ol li: correceión y que NiNi orland dujisra

p$ Delon que Glipan de linde jari vor que laouros 7280

---

## Page 50

14-00000

22c-

242-

244-

268-

33i-

......

Intristiron in

Con TI.

para oltaran ei cudo ile ollo non ii

saltdn

il 09 por li lora, - 1343 h03.-

25-

intradho- 6a19 preganto novelados, HouruIl que 10

Jor lni barde: le antion lunedn tron liultili i anliro in dies

tra. T9MT:U

acuptão iO se 1lara VICT: Ii, 351-

......

•*.

---

## Page 51

4-00000

-w.

00-

-=-=

06-

20-

36-

41-

53-

ELLIJADA DOSINICI. 28-77-830

A cayo 66. .

120:12-12.50

1823-1924 hr8.

Intrado, - 1625 hrB. - o1n contestación, →'I progunta por su

"papa"o poro so apurrocó 06-

jalida poupada y booina docolraia. - 12

Salida al 19-02-09, = 1844 hra,- GUiMNi progunto a dondo

tione que haular para hacor niguns nelricloron sobre la llogada

dos cisbion intornacionalos. li dica quo llain a1 19-08-06-36-

dalIdn al 19-02-06.- 1911 Sra,-QUilii indure aabor o1

hay algin cablo procodonto do canto doninco. lf que llano ul

19-09-06- 11-

•Salada al 10-02-06. Miall quiure sabor a1 ha Ilegiado

aledu cátilo de conto Dorslico. IP alon que no in lugares nada

poro en tanto lo confar an lo enviariu a la msbogado. Ol2901i

G1e dis

todo caso a la aulto tisroador, lf QuO 0569 0103.- 53

Araruta al de abordó dul reunto do aqual enfior, Curlo que os

pero quo na emocido por desno lados do la ilianodoro pero a111

nadie

Io coruoro poro olia tinio una tarjato de un des; raro

quo no doidos a irraatirar poraonas, Queri dica que eno do 1os

(boja 11110)

---

## Page 52

14-00000

71-

88-

X924

..=.

...2.

... Moruanos trabaja en la rInanolora, MOCIA LUCHIM que abora

que lo vea la entregari esa tarjuta, GUAiIi la llanaro a su casa

doopuos de lia sola y nodia,= Y no tengo para cuando saldr yo

quO la tieson cono esclavo. • 710

Intradas ols contastación, a 88s

salinao sin contostación. a y ocupadas - 107-

=(0.2.n 1.2- 4 1888.66)

---

## Page 53

14-00000

107-

123-

141-

154-

. in

.0.3.0

RUBIJAL DOLLITICAAA - 28-77-85.

5 5750 G6.

12-12-7280

1138-1236 1258.-

SOLIda, • GUTAlÁ SALUdo a INNIASDEZ y d100 quo VA a ontar

On lu cribojado 10y, HiERVIiDER le CuNdarl ou podido y progunta

at ol tiero la cuenta dol Coronel PORtalDiã. GUZMAN no ootS

voçuro puro auis cono atl cionto cohonta, MARiANDil tratará do

pasnr cunnto anteo a vorlo.- Guilla lo capera natos lo 190.

0300. -- 122-

intradas sin contratación. - 141-

Salida,- (Sulto Engorador) - OU22L8 procunto por 19: PIALLO.

se dico que seaba do nalir. - 154-

artrada,- ir RENE CIALLO dies catar llirando donde hoco rato

se nadio contesta. Guilli dion que ol contestaba poro nucio lo

hacin funse y que ol In Slien al Hotel para avinarlo quo so

rocibil un cublo confirnando lo do la focha que su rindo en ol

otro oubla, y DE JUrdO. RENE dicO quO su alocra y qu0 pasard al

sato a la onbajada para vor uso sobre lo que ayor on autuvo encu

claudo y la razón a lna resurrua finalos y adora lasslo cuenta

por al hay alguas preadón de parte do cilos "a1lá con 100 paisos

intorosados" ya que porda algun orcor limostullo o un mal antero

d1d0 do comanfierod, üluelli que nosA blon.- FiAlLO adoras comenta

QUE ANDONA lO LLAGÓ MITTA JOSIPA lA OSDONA dO FERNANDEZ CAMINERO

( baja ares)

•* .

---

## Page 54

4-00000

.. 4.00

..y lo difo que lada extralado du nuounelo y jus oprocls

maninalo un dallo y taubien osteolo Boungalarla hoy y juuna oso

onso aunque sca de vas el la tard para ayulusai. GUalti qua

0st1 B1es - 2040

20%-

MARCIO

Introda - Hr8.- LRo- W' Precunta por ul L1C. stress

VELOZ MIGIOLO, PERI: FIALLO dICE ¡Ue NO DOtA nu MÓX1OO al risTa

enri nl pale. ME propunta entonces por la collora Di: Viloi.

Reale que tanhlon so suo e santo Dosingo. ll' propunta culca

Do quedo un su lugato Rila dico è tiren ol gunto du hablar con

ol quo 30 enerres do la Lubalada y soy RiMI: FIALLO lMonigado de:

Mugodiou y dinlatro Flonpontenciario".. li dies quo lo habla

INNUJA FINPIRO DE LiVORA de padres gallogon y dominionna do

mudinidento y huce un mos y redio annio a la cludno de léxico

porque alla vivo an torresa, coniutiagon pannjortos do sua

hijO3 ¡Nru COnOVArlOS Y UNA A MOGOTO MO MAiTA IA:MIL Y JOSE

DiTORIO LiAVONA FAICINO y Sagita que con conos do 153 años

y allos quteron do a santo Deritrião: quioro tonor In serridnd

do quo caton en la cubajida porgão lua cado con un capañol

VICEIT: VICARIATA • DE VILIARDIL y BlenO alla quiere lI a

Santo Dordineo pornun olla no asininla in molniunto no doninioa

na y tlulle

quo coinvar due docunontos que un porcasi al 6 da

julio y 5us

hijos uf son dorinicanos

con doniollio en calle

abalario corrianes Urionata

dondo vivan loa padres de MAICT ILoi, RId: ofrece tavestigar

ABO

Infor arl despues. Pubio! dice que ulla viva on

1a ivanada Mogrla 4590 Colonio tanler in correßn o o1 toloforo

de g's

19?000 11:14

ca dueñe del cors cOIda y D0 blUca JOSE SWiVEL

Llaires d19100d - napainl-a con e-lafono 2-74-75. ACAE QuO

está bion y que va a hicur ln posibio pur subulvos su problea.

35ü-

(hoja cuatro)

---

## Page 55

14-00000

- 0.05.00

356=

§:111n.- (1pusta5t00 Carendo Glialil pido ol departamento

28 con la solor TelesItA Tilo. l 8100 que 10111.- 372-

372-

salian al 02. W.- 1225 hrs. GUMi puloro hucor una

Llamado a TOTTeRn CON 01560 a1 2-74-75 COn 1U DOÑOTO !WRUSA

FEIXEIRO DE LAVON: O SU ESPOSO SOUT 1RE LAVOLA PERIANDEZ.

A toma nota y diou que capere la corento. tongong GUIlLAN

Informa a la Detera lunUli que 100 pacarron que dico que

mands con un seilor ja 2u ruerpo vlasioe hice dun élas y todos

capoon de suceto Vinie de burunna de uno cudida que ello tinno

dice que ya quodsron sutorizados sua viBan Y 4n1 jerBOna 10

TOCOllA y l05 11006 tal vez fero COrrelA. HiRl'J: Hen aotá bien

y qun mnetis, (lineas armandno) Y IliMilA roconoce a LiONTI

COMO MORIANO dE JONI: Y dO JAIME y que 611a un Irry aulEa do

doña JostrA manil de 150T. Ma., Dide - seoguen do ponen a

platicar subro laD ariatideo y 15 facilla que actus son -

conocirios. - 448-

18430

Entradio- lU' LICo ANTiT por ol CORdoiCOS SUNOL. GUIRAN

dico que ful n la corpronda del socalo a una jura do bandera

dol Ejorcito liexicano y no vordr:1, - 455-

1550

salida a1 14-02-76-- 1236 hasa- cu'lin ironirta "por g11

soñorita dinsonal j reco. CHIl"o in mungunta du porto de julos.

GUaUl que "co la nobajado do Eleorto", 10sp400 CUALl saluda

¿InA cruelaso dus cádo que daddo do rectils un diblo y qua ..

/hojo disco)

---

## Page 56

4-00000

..0.00

•. dicos "Labajarlos de lióxico, a TilIl, roe:Do Selleltaciones

cun lentos, auraros para todos, "irea MINUCl laa& SiLIV:R".

TII. so entora y da lia Cracias, ! diCe que su cajosa y su

faallla fioros a las piranidos do Tootihuacen, canbla de teno

y frugunta que lle Brala Riso con el cabla cifrarlo. Gualii dice

que nado y que era otro cablo grando y ya quedó todo arrogiado.

y que " eso hobro pa sas bruto que al cuberidor", cambia do

tora y dico gio laj que sandarlo us: regalo a esa muchacho.

TArIl pregunta por el rapolito que le dio do unos cubanos residon

sea nortoacaricanos y que hay que vos on cobrinación ose asunto

purs son tres cubanos que la trajo tiRich. Guais no tiena ose

papel pero lo vu a lascar y a la rus procunto si recuorda que

su renovaron dos pasaportes de dos ciños hijos de unoa ospañolas

quA vival en torradn, TAIi quo a1 qua su lo dió a una vioja

oopañola sea, Galli que catá blon y saledos, - PipIl astos do

colgar comenta

"quo el viojo be 11anó pora pedirno disculpas

sObre que no se

boula onterado dui cable cifrado quo bastas

isocio entro "el 710j0" y Glaulli, y quia no pusiora irondintarionto

al haula coutigo y que ustiba soiogio jerque yo ostaba jansiado

que na hablan pasado los arrina, y que no 10 tonars ast y que

el so daba plaza confianza, etc." - =1979.- GUilli corenta que

aal es rojor para nio so do clienta que so quiero nada " ontro bas-

tidores".- rinas. - TirIi cosenta o que ese! loco Oso Viojo".

GUZMAY rio y dico que hasta pronto - 531-

531-

salido, - (ioronavos) - Gualu pregunta por la hora do Ilogada

del suelo 441 procedente sie liand. lE que a las 16:00 258.- 539-

......

..

(0060-12- 5 1234-66)

---

## Page 57

00.

07-

18-

23-

15-

33-.

..1.=

111814:19°

mitrariie: 29-77-43.

6 cajo dúo :

L2-112-12)0

0551-1016 hr3.-

Intrada sin contestación. - 07-

taltde s1 22-65-29.-0851 hrs.- (Exclualvas Bonnot)-

cuteo progunta por noelines para poetrlo que no voya a vosis

hoy a la ombalida alno hasta

y qlie se eralga lus muestrag.

Y 10 de lA VOJillo. MIGADO% que datarÁ a Las dius O dina ;

media. - 16-

salida ucupara.- 23-

salida u1 21-36-70.- O9lü hrs.- UcteNsin progusta por su

anor 1UG15a y su van a verco boya liste dier ur 110888 al linas

porra alies pienses

lo que de dijo. libutiN. Il dico" patão pudo y

al no enteres vondo antoncos eniana aí, y no to hugus payaso".

- biroo blra.- sin Importarein. - 45-

Saldela 01 17-51-27 - C9lú DR.- HON9yYTi proguntit por

C:c:: Be PaGUsa de la Cadada Doy, pero all1 no trabaje naddo con

08e nombrc. - 53-

salida ocuada,- 59- crulrocadn.- y restnin.- y san con-

testa ciós1. -103-

( hola (ino)

---

## Page 58

1030

126-

336-

143-

168-

204-

209-

calida al 13-74022.- 0025 Argo- 100TS: MA Propusto jor su

aNeS GiORATE pora Baber si se pueden Muro late dice 410 alerera,

siga actuanio codo niña y sira crayendo e:: los Santos Reyes no

voiverí a suido con ollas que ya us una sujor que dubo de hacor

las cosas tor s1.a13aa. learista so enoja j le dioo hasta luogo.

- 126=

sallola sin contestacain. - 136-

que anoto di su librata que voy a lo a la inbajada incricrino

luego a la larinicara l duajung de le trOCHourtO. MARIA que

esti

otero- 213-

tntrario. MIltoN salude a taIt o dler que tlore un trabajo

que territor antes dui din 25 corque se Gulir 15 para 01 dia 23

PaLLA". MARINA SO aLeRra. MOCO: INTIÓN A LATINA Y A TERE LIN A

conme hoy me magal de platurodoo e inbas sacitados i6ea

alad: si 25-59.o11.- 2011 irso reipidro y bocina discola

VIll para avisarle que tor tres dind tiene el disoro de 13

renti und cuarteo tril, midará encogerlo coi su recibo.- 204-

pirao :flets 61 33-13-00.-=209-

alicia ni jiriz00. 1017 159. eruirocado. - con Flectro

10Io- deopleS dicen quo va 1ó-24-30o-T BueãO MARINi hace podido

(hoja dos)

---

## Page 59

4-00000

245-

238=

272-

283-

Intrada. 1021 Urso lit progunta at lay alruna corresposio

descla pora Jose 111'7, Mailyd dice que en hay nada. - 258-

Intera - 1033 liruio. Nt' dosca irforuca para viso, puos

habla do los l'etablecialentos Noslo y & tasbten subor 1o8

requiritos pura podor loculians una carta poder para pedir el

traspago do baquinas en la nopublien coninicana, Mantil que

primero de a robernacllo y a lulaciones txtorlores y ya logi-

lazadoo por esas dependonelas puode prerr a la subalada lajo

conocindando do alcúa notarlo y que cuusta 1a 1ogallzac18n

la cantidai do olaco dolares, "8 que craclo:. = 272-

Entrado,- 1060 bro.- l0 pregunta pos ol Corl JOGl TERE

dice

que no natil, bespuna dancla saluda a Lauta Currir, y pido

Le dico Guo dO LlanO al 11-00-43 COn MORE GUlCI! - 283-

Entradao- 1046 lirao- CRISTINA arlada a luntad y proguita

al ha llegado esa contr, Esta diee que no y que anocho 11am6

y no contradaba al tuléfono y que hay que esjorar hoy a vor que

haye UloTas: caco que doy va i la reco cala do dia rubalada do

etiolo y que vea at on enbornelóa ja in dicron ol peruiso

do residancia.

Marta pide lo 1100e ts tardo antorees.- 310

....

-.

10030-12- 6 5iy0 65)

---

## Page 60

4-00000

00.

36-=

88=

• 880

EXILAN DORISTENSO- 28-77-15.

6 Gato 86.

19-12-1300

1055-1205 1250.-

Entradao -1058 hro,- !P do jarto dol Builos GEONCE RATiTGSON

del diarto lou irralea tinos que golleité unn viaa jura 1i a

canto poringo y que na de nacionalidad nortrarertenta y quo

jO FuTO dE VIRA CO TOrIOdIgO y lA QuiOrE SONOVIT. TRINA

dico que asjoro un somento, nespues le cario: dico que ri -

consiguió antus una tien que le dieron on

san Junn de Inerto

Rico para la lioninicana y que nhora quiero volver pora al

asunto de 1lovas la notas periodistleas de las elecciones de.

au pala y de nulore eritar tones que lt a san Juan a renovar.

Marid que huy que lacer coros los trinitos de meto agul, ya

gin son otris rocina y os enjor que roja di simero co su tolo-

Alisarlo munido liccus el cónsula d Dido alce que ra

lisiicado

35-82-09 y que eS GLORO: BARAUSON Y estA xanta un Mexico para

las asurtos do nu corinuico en contro luorder. - 56-

saber al se cua hoso late dlee que si s progunta por ol número

do la agorola quo le aprecio dirlo. Luchti i la

tarde que so

vean se lo dari comie no lo eral constro, Cuald la lianarl a

las cuatro y Bulla. - 6s-

salida -(sabajada de Corea)- MultA duen que las 1na corros

otraicas que 1logó da santo Doningo para den pabajara y no lay.•

hola uno)

---

## Page 61

14-00000

93

104=

110

13:10

• 2.=

con yulen enlaria y de nor postule inson a recogorla.

sando coatino il quo rotá blos y que cracias. - ?}-

Salida 01 10-79-99.- 1155 15s.- (CereDondal)- PiRINA

¡roguita lor pLeNos DiriDo die alco que uniló a in callo.

daliA pine se 1u dios que el anitor Grital degei testos una

cunfrionita con lia qui iineo du tratar la asunto do su

CobierTo 5 que 90 lo BeÑala una cler. iT De 19t9 B10n.-104-

pregunta al cocible su talogaana de friicitoollos por el canto

haciendo instionna dite do l'orretora el lajda pura ol urastario

de 1709 200 j que será unn butra de carla i sale todos de pago

con Interagos, tucos 1n lianará rio taria para dario li rado

ANDRES cia a in desclio 0 an:: 81 3-18-02 8 1l11 espora su

1laresdão Sincos que esta 11010- 134=

necusita, Tillia que sobre unn docrentos j era cian que pido

•1 corTesiOnsal del ularlo luA duDIluS TiNDO O 10a SATINSON GUa

quore in a idIlo ioniadO y yun la luz pasada so la dioson en

192d0 PICO, MIA lICe que entoncaR se vajo a puerto diloo a

sacarla, dna: u0s 11ce que pase al roto.- 1i? (hoja dos)

---

## Page 62

14.0000J

148=

194-

1680

130-

201-

r..

1ae.

calida di 19-35-93 - 2125 Hre.- FiDIl: l'OF DI DIO, paro

todaria 1o 11659,-1510

alicia deliaddo y sin contostoo185. - 168=

ALISURO 1123 H1G.O ST' ADILIN ELIAS DI: NO:TXO 00N.0U

osposo el coronel Maico: Judit MoNEte para avisar que va al

saldi j que despaos paso por ellão Milidde que asta tolen y quo

1010 s:ci

cointerero an la Poterliseo liBia

ProcInta por la sonorita Morial pocoura GU"N: 3aluda n la

Licenolore MosTalia Cata dido io dus des olicloa porrilentos do

¿Area cosdo al riloccolos no los tlonon sino lasta boy una tarde

jo do 10s ctros dos estín pradiantos do que lo doapaclica clicilit

que esti bion y expllea qun has tres analeee docinicanos que

v1altr.n

•tirinleg

co viao diplomática y se vescan al dia 8 5 7u0

Maliedonos esulica que lay que llinarlos o Bol1citar ol cambio

por pilcico Marno dee uod en y que deg,los 1o tardo loA

oriolo, pure quo so deognolen 1urco.- 201-*

Calle da 13-21-22.- 1139 10o GE Prefuta Per o: 110.

MErgera para galudarlo. Esto les que natuvo un poco enfarto

y con tricio trabajo, 8 que ta locto infortos sobro osa persona

y que il ditimo puesto que todavii tiono os ri una cospañla

¡lacclumdora de traronos E tua bles dE dl Maro do su hortano

J MUOIa jUSTTiRO, quin eD la cuboca col crupo, y que lie

peroado atrus puraido diongri bojo le colili de su berrano MiAN

y QUE "ÍI" (EUSTAQUIO CONTINI PONTIILO) da una Suona personA..

(hoja tro0)

---

## Page 63

14-00000

236-

248-

::..

......

••ocomplotaaunto honorable y elena de todo crólito" y que ol

11610 diGO DORO Untur lu diJo Rato cono irrelionte de Ena

outjaãli de torronos fraccionados, jorn la porsona que lo 218

uno disto algo que 18o orn hacó sola roano 5 hasta la feosa

no se ha logrado comprobiro cuali poriauto al lostó lucestious

da lo IlLIGOlÓn política o suclal 0o ina o 3110s. ENRISTI

entabatrin: do catolico practicinto j sicopre lo estido mi 1

do liares quo cativinron o estudiaron con al fuéro jesuita

gio mada +1620

quio agradecer "doctor" al sun dasos son en ciurto

las vijabas

ontuyn ¡latichirin con el iro rocilic y dice ui los conoceo

rama alen ruo da boo liollio do Intino andas do al padra ros

ue bril prano tallirà dice vir sialá log fuera y no sube

-= 135-

atradio- 1l43 hrno ChIuTIa: con Mil:à para sabor si

Mil tie motá:1111631d0 CoN dos ZI13.

"copas a cono dó 1uzau".- 241-

roget 15 1l jara 15 a 1:181

y Antillas Holandanas so clone se

sacer vir"

1071:

in Peninds===o

¡larien que ..

---

## Page 64

14-0000

292-

....

328-

427-

••3.-

•. ella tlane fanliliro en anato londre tras-jando en lu..

oricina sanitarla Panertesta y en eras de

pides 1r a 000

palo porri. Gestionas su vion allá. idono. PulIda que lo ayuda en :

nuoho :«ro de

trion tridos tleno que lindor los cratioros condo

la cnbajada de aquí. 202-

Tucandion 1150 lirso- CilarllA con MiTl jIrraulta por

CuRios ( suGe teruto)o tete dles que estiro ln sosento.

Despues Culttlla diee que sabe que luce mal pi lianrio pero

paro alla es suficionto datãi dopaino canto y lo quo lo hizo

ol norcolos uste tuy unl ya quo allá duado ol 21 de soril osto

tratair de huilurle por ultita vos sla fiel que molestarlo

milo.

1i00E quurda silenclo. CHISCIlA que colo la quiero sabor

ou opinión pora es viajo a Canto Comaço die 11n quiero lucer

y 10 no ha1a 211a0 antos culpe su llão está enferra, MACOS

dico que aqui so do puodo iablor pues nada. CRISTINi que yo se

te

toluuti bullor conmuico puro corá la uitla voz que lo

hago pero yo quiero saber du connodo juro le a santo lobino

y 10 donan esta por denas hallar y quedico: cono audios y total.

Yane ya con los desairg que lo luces ya de mileinuto. tiRíos

gile: 1111 i:s

comento cera hablar y 1000g MOul y 49e ol 10809 108

Torios y no perdo seguir hablando porte: ti? niche corito.

CRISTia que entonces nos vuuca ol lung "anêlunte cosin antor-

canada equivocaria a y sin contentaribion l siguen alidaa

unusvocaras. - 127-

jor

mi amor bEl. Milico turo no la llegado ¿ pida 10 dles que

(haja cinco)

---

## Page 65

4-00000

:

433-

449=

47:1-

484-

...f..

Entrada.- 120S Dro. • MORTE:!IA pido a MiRTil insorna a

Guzilli qua esti en ol zocalo, poro que estivo en deberración

y que

todaria no estaban los offelos, y que a1 gilere que

rOCTOSO a Goberración. MRINA despuca de Informas dico que se

vença nojor para la enbajada poro rápido. - 449-

alida sin cortostación. - y equivocada. • 474- •

atradho- lE por el Coronol NOWN0. @'a'15 dico que ya

Da118. Ir que es el Inge lUGIneT. - 404-

Salida, - equivocada.- 400-

...

(000-12-5131-66)

---

## Page 66

co-

07-

130

15-

311-

EXDIJAIA DOIINICAX1, - 25-78-83.

6 anj0 éto

L20:12-731-

1351-1-1021:53.-

tintridlãon Nl° pultia cobrar la-trnital del looil quo ocuja

la aeilajdino dilin dice son tuy ue choque jor un nou 5es por

la canildad de :1, 200.00. i

leaari a rocccorlo,= 07-

• Entradio- lli de la trbojado do doruogãg iara saser quien

us c.l

cicargado de lirgreios. lunttr caee ru:

•B KIET PIALIR.

Fr ae +2

vara mia irvitncibs que ir mivinrán.- 15

Fa1id0 11 03

1ar lo borno- 1941 hrrom lí,a

tniida sin contestucton y orugada.-i

enulyrcado. -31-

- 1ll 03 108 Ia Horso 1013 1i2os "-

"itracia, o 11%" dn

la mbatada de Diuararso gil-re Babes 81

toiavia os ttniutro di Colacionns mn Poctaleroa el Dr. C1L0E

PEDeRCO 109Ce Y1AI2. O30d dãea qous dlo 10 clee es jara divinI

una corsreboniogela l tanble9 Malr di 10411% dnl Viee-iitalairo.

oa.ud qoc os nl too dolla, Co0nore luis "oruur ol anterdor

LIC. MANON MOSHII LISTE RO PogEroontat: Chara ea lag 122U.

AP qen tordon 1 Jofo del Toeseole de de Eoxlirto FRiCISCO

Jos: 1n: B1neee, Choe dden ten slo i8 grs c99e1n8.a 47=

-INLiDOCGSOBOLalO G L00 FiNL CSIDI, 10 ir 11a00

dos, ue: do lua caaco porque ya salds al aneo uortre- 34o

---

## Page 67

14-00000

940

60=0

'10%-

118-

146-

165-

175-

..02000

80116 la Decis y

coposa do PiNE TViIio inuti que osel bien.

( 99 91 032030

de TIDIi F 30 111117

Mitil DrI. X8oes y trabaja en

ol serticin in

turiaco del Motol Priverador)= 60-

inirada in con !LaIli pira couestas que su hija ostá

enforma y que hace rato estiro hablando con luCiS JONGE MOrriO

y que de dijo que tonio que haular con alla el lunos ( Ni os

CRISTINi nuanto del Corland"in)- lue a la noche Dar a 1u

rocoreión de 1o callada co tloptí.- 107-

para sabrá si puede fisar el riro ol portidor, rate dice que si.

- 118-

Entidio- enuivocudio- 123- %

sis-comiensueldro y peupada.

- 140-

abracio dit ice sor

jasante de todicina y quiere 1rge a

la Docinteina oi

calidad de intorno en aigili dspical, tlaINa

quo solo hay que cuirir los requisitos de viad y do lo podrá

acoptor. 1s; dice que teruina sus estudios i lín do avio y tiono

tlempo dn la tronitando

8U9

uniida equivocada - 172- y sullui al Ca por la Dara, o 135018

- 175-

vá rua turcho tuta dico que 19a a 15 con Miliftla a la seoepción

de ii: nonada en 1t10, 1a por auica vau con Millsà a casa do

( hoja dos)

---

## Page 68

216-

226-

240-

270-

205=

.030

el doctos citui o coulalcaron quim do vo tão la putria y

ando vondiando ol auto ou mil dolerra y que vole coco 30 311,

y que ne ua jord. U se intureos y procunta a dendo leblar

con Cilinlula TiRE QUe al 19-56-52 y 19-56-530 y que salo

malana a cacinca g 1i coutigo so vo a Mland nea deapuos a

o ruivocido. a 226=

alles all: contessachón.-äru-

FAlAda A1 21-36-70, - 1402 103.- HONTUAIN pOr El BORON

MAGnon para avinarle que

"le table anual y ana gudoro verla

con el alio"o ticina que ento: saz

lo defin jara o1 lues.

Honratoli de dierg

¿ pulare verta hoy", kinili quo

desgues io corino- 2700

alida curivocair, - y sin contestactor. - 258a

Catraca adn contrathelln,- 310-

....

...

......

---

## Page 69

14-00000

2200

3.0-

,..0

25-77055.

6 =ajo 66.

L20:12-T32-

1736-1900 1=0.

salada n1 19055-90. - 1730 158o- (otal l'upurados) - G121S

pregunta por don RES PULo 19 NDICADES PINA DER DE PTILID

A1Co sio 90118 pura la esbaida jules y quo desinou lua a isisar

a las ofteiras, oita vino porque so lo dijo y via a trier quo

esportilo. minernos porque se vo i altruviotas con ri oniaiados

Du120. GUaus 10 vo a esporar do tolo bodos y al no viena sais

tardo entoncea cañanà vondr!, - 12-

Introdno le R0l:n MilaS do la agencla du cotielas louter

do Londrono guloro dubus si hoy una ruilla do productores do

azucar ea tilaico j si la Decinicum rosa roprosontada. duzi

so sabo y prominta cumulo costeico oon souli, MolaiD jun Eleno

Inforco do londoce que dobo do exienzar 10y y que partiolin

leri, tirasil, Pontricana, colorbio i Masico. daili dico que

on:ero ui boiosto, deapido élce que as le uiuss (lacas clara

¡ lao unca posiuo jo soy un esplande do la cobajado à no e de

5nl1di.o tis: plue el ciarbazondo 201 con ol deior TilIlo

sino: nail sua difloulded an la gable estrado que apelos ===-

bajanio y 1nau18a,gu9 el dolle do la ondajada no est?^e?

a Pal para da 01aad0 de doidralia na la seadona y de mario cio se

Jarar ano!

a. i

---

## Page 70

14-0000

63-

57-

1300

140-

..2.00

not! ol sullo y noceritan maidas esou callno hoy ritaro.

cidIs tarda on lleçoo unos 110z sinutos. NEl pe cota 2101. 63-

sulida al 18-52-86. - 1630 hrg - ocu;ado y sin contestación. .

-870

5a11da al 14-02-86--1335 PIDO- NENE pOr TIlIi - eguivocado.

• 94. .

TAylo lO dico que rajara un nocunto. doapuca Mail: dioo a TiPI

quo no ily moraidnd que se vongo TiiIi que el u0 sobe de ese

asunto do duscifisi y que yo tendu la cablo jera 1s on sonoajos

do Ilogado, sas no para pallias y cao a lo pudo... rione. Ri:

drio ontoloro yu a di jar a GUlili que hitl codu

I que ga eneon-

traron ol anllo do la enbajoda que Millsi dego en o1 oscr1tos1o

ulo y ya an lo ho lcho que yo ne li quiuro acunor du que las

cosas on lu olyidan y t davia naururo du un hareo los coorde

PilIA que al y que bot 3o juse al llempo olyidndounle las cosas,

que al flual los aneutrarone litti: que va uli posso augur que

06t.1

perdiondo li memoria y 80 dosplrun, 130-

quel on au auto un broche do ellia GUalt! lo rocogll y In

tinna guardado. 140-

HAI: 09÷95

¡ero ya le ancuneraron y acala du ilecar doro enblo alfrado y

---

## Page 71

1350

174-

callưn nl 18-29-938--1850 hruo ACusrute procume

•1 aNñOr FLOWNS TEJADA SOS SeTORonIal do 11010010400

que you no vino por in tordo o trabajor poro o1ze

Llaró al eo que lloga o hasta aniana, - 1740

¡MITOLO, - 1900 RIO, - CHULITO GURIS COM BU MIOF GUILLIN

y saber a que horas so von. Guilli que dontro du sodla bora

alll an

au duBa: CILITO lA rapora en li puorta de la c1a, -181-

4о о о со о от по и и то по м то о

(0030- 1206 may0. 66) -

---

## Page 72

00.0

03-

08-

39-

15=

50-

•o.d.m

L'ILIJADA DUMENT

7 cayo обо

120112-133

1046-1152 hr8.-

20-7y-65.

intradu - sin cuntustación. - 03=

iNtraNDO dE CHILITO GATS BuLUdon aU anOr GUZiLAN y TC-

cunta qun hacho toto silen que trabajondo. CoLITo dier que pn:

" Vis i quedar yoco do tanto trabilar", GUai que 31" y al tú no

no cuidas peor", Clicitro ni lo quioro atendea s de veria 1i0s.

BUZAN la llavire rus tarelo al las doca a 31 0f10180.- 08-

COnontar cHe su lIja INDICA AtA ua poco aulasa l que cito a

MAILiA para raiiana en casi y comer Juntino. blr.. 0li.. als

Impostanoino- 33-

Salida nl 12-01-930- 1016 irno- (Curteros Zona lin) -

Gzii probana por lucido para caber s1 la 120rad0 aliria -

valija o correspondencia para la orejada, into dies gro no y que

---

ENtrUGOO- HE jOS CRIITA CISTILLO dO PArEO dO SALVADOR

Entrado,- 1036 ArA.- CONIA NOL SONRE PERE O O 10S PIFII.

cena dice que rato el lune oatarán porque hoy no vloren..

∞ 53=

(lopja uno)

---

## Page 73

4-00000

.5500

110=

127-

136-

Salida ol 1Fal?a93 - 1100 hrs.- Guardl: saludo a PLoMese

dol Coronontal de Mulolonno y dice que lo slou porquo ol

Enoargado do laçoclos RUNi: FINLO acaba do sucibir un cublo do

nuestro cobiorso y ue que tiose que comunicirlo clartio conna

•al Cancillos CARRILlO flelis y pura ollo solicita unis audlenodo .

FLONES d100 quo ol illulatro 8al1ó de Viajo a lo: Lotados Unidos

o dua por jurva fort y laolligion, pero ou cuanto rectroo en lo

solloltard 10 entroviato o ai du brianto so podro 500t10145

con ol Patrios sub-inos tarlo, GUilAl que coro do una coan dirocta

con ol canoillor ebanara vos a es:prar por lue polina 91 va go

no tardi sucho on sogresaro y qua ol lunes do avionet. Perueg

788e: e86i9 binso 71100

calidao ocupaiar, 110.

Calla, al 12-01-99- 1150 hegoo Galis pregunto por ICli

Muri saber al 1lugó Alempre valla, Toto dlou que 10, diz9l a

1o voz propunta lon roqulaltos quo so recogitan para envla.

v111ja de agul do dárdon i la Domindena, INCLli 10 sabo yu o

son cosas diferontes al porvicio de corrro y para ello co moJor

procultas a comunicoolonos, GlaH" que Eraolia, - 127-

salida ocupara. - 13ú

....

Sailes al IoBrolloo 11501 hos,- Partelno de corsonal do

corunicaciones) - HERl: PIALLA desen salur

a guden ly 1uo dirielese

para los tráultos de moló da una valija por vio peren para ol

Gobiorno Dominicano.

¿ que debe do Alonar al IRallaßn est-271

quo in al beinotanarto de Transportes o 159-

( lioja dos)

---

## Page 74

14-00000

159-

17800

1D1-

22.00

227-

235=

268-

275-

•• 3.

saltua sin contöntacien.-17s

inlida al 21-70-51.- 1201 hrso- (Jefatin do Cerruos)

FIILLO pide inéormea nobre colso y denie dujoaltrr uia valijo

diplonátion para lominioann. '" que en lay oftcinno contralos

do las calloa do Tacuba y ruda de ilarcín, - 194-

salida sin concestaolón. - y ocupidile. - 220-

Entraca.- 1210 hreo- tiF do la idaintotración contral do

correos avisa a dualuti que lns 110gó una valijo diplouátten y

CO110

da sabedo tione que pasur a recogorla das teupraro y que

dù

parto dlo INCla" y estarán hasia las dos lle la tasdlo.

GUalii que craciad.- 227-

Antralioo 1211 hrg.- CHILIT GAN'S con au anor GUalii para

comentar qur llegó valija, y que Guiallas vn a di a rellrarla dol

corroo y le Ilarurá deopses fara vorso tos tarie, -235-

HITRCIDTS DE IIALLO

tinlida i1 84- 23-41-51. - 1032 LiS.- EENRSXTIXERiS se Into-

rosa por ol departasento que se sunta osi las cailog do leria

csqutna oon fiber o 80a atrás dol liotol larla Isabel. ii con

uconto dlu sostoaberioona lo laforia y que conta 34.500.00 al

:1 11:

•1.s

DOS.- SESKRIII qulero uno sas barato para des porsoris - 268-

salida aln contestación. -275-

•KEri.s

•alIsin. - IxRtRsãs por un dupartiuento que rentan y que

olla nucralta por trou uobug.- lil' ofreco 10u que siono en Rhta 29

(partauantos Careu donde hrbita MiRISITI PEia) y otros sas

an t'étiabon Nauton, 1012r60.- 321-

(ian jir tros)

---

## Page 75

14-00000

321-

327-

344-

372-

379-

353=

390-

411-

427-

Falida ocupada, - 327-

Intrada,- 1250 hrg.-"y' por GIRAT, MERCEDES DE FIALLO dICO

que salló a rocoger una valija y regresa uns tando o bion lasta

el luBes. :FOS CIRLIT: GUlS y dico que llana de Seguros

¡rigTigo y que na sobro un cobro de un seguro (?), (Efectivamento

CIEiITO que es anor de GUALl! trabaja en Soguro I'rogroso de

la caile do lladnro 68) - 344-

Salida al 11-53-89.- 1254 LEs,- MANCEDES UE PI:IIN IND

interara sobre ol apartamento do lieradoto 30. liF dico que lo

quede jasnr a ver a la lora que curte -371-

Saldria,- MERCEDES por tufornoa da un deportaento poro

Ja estil sentado. - 372-

Eutridao- sin contrstación fuera - 353-

salida sin contestación. - 380-

Salida 01 13-70-41 - 1301 hra.- (Cino Fundial) - GUZMAN pre-

Guita pos iNiON CURVIJAL para saludarlo y rosorse du acuerdo on

caso que llano la Mail para hacer planes ¿ salir de paseo raiana.

Rodi está de acuerdo. - 111-

saiica 81 45-72-69.- 18- 1302 19.- 18 ARReNDES DE FIALLO

pregunta por al departarento que rentar aruoblado, - 427-

Malida al 11-25-10,- 1mOTDES jos Irlorino del departamento

arueblado que rentan en la calle Vesecia is, colonda Suaros.-

( hojn cuatro) -

---

## Page 76

458-

4810

512-

525-

542-

563°

705-

Entrada,- 1310. 253.- CaLITO GINS pregunta a GU21u3 01

so vin a vor porque ella pa sale del trabajo y se va

para su

caado Guilli entonces lo Llanurf nas

tarde a su casa l'orue

tiono mucho trabajo y qii sobre ol dinoro del cobrnior lo suauas

reguolvo ol luca pero loy de todos modos se his de vor.- i81-

salida sin contustación. - 512-

Salida al 40023-240- 1331 hrB.- 179000:S Ci PIAlID y&

pOr

los s;entarontos de la calio do tertud ti dro

10a puedo pagar à vos con el volador fistai- 525-

Salida 1l 10041-07 - 1333 ira. - NIC'TiS por d0109 dol

departamento do runton en la calle de lachuca, t5 1e c0xta.- 512-

Salida al 20-00-05o- S65kcd28.- 100.00019 jruguta por lu

SENCIA CLINIIN

pira saber 10 dol departamente que si sontil y

que a olla la coconiordo la dconeta i?)o de dieo que la concra

30 patal y que toria ci srixesaro 563-

Falido al 20-00-05,- 1451 truo- 132Y CDES P PI1.10 con li

señora ClaRIN jara sabra sobro ol departavento que sonta y que

es "or trAs Isisos jorgur no tieno la securidad de cousinuar

ya quo pasario las elecciones do su pals tul voz dilean del pala

o tal vos noo Y queda: do linarco el lunes para pozurso ro

acurndo

ei que ol lo sentan o no por el tlesio artes aencionndo.

- 705-

calida,-(Sulto laporados)- ROl FTlLiO pide a if lo Lairle

127 BiLT1 1l la enbiladas. - 750-

(boja circo)

---

## Page 77

14-00000

7500

766-

callonoo (Emperador)- MR:CL05S D: CIALIO progunto B1 dandaron

TOdA Ci:Co MinutOs

n4 110695-766-

ratrada sin contestacton S12

(0060-42-7 1layo 66)

---

## Page 78

00.0

16-

2 mayo 66.

83t- 12-112-734-

0204-121211830-

tintralas sin contestactos:, 16-

salida ul 200ddoin.- 0004 les,o 0ia1: saludo a HP19117

y 1l00 1u0 el salado lo catuvo esculado y qulota verlo hoy.

MemorDe lo espara por la torde en su cuado olegio que poet bien

jorgun necesito coo hoyo (italiaati pa do la distriunidom

Bonot suidon lea vendo vinos, eleurillos, ote. de lugartacira).

+25.

Entradio- 0910 Ara.o 10 cancea Jonos DeRed do reporta.

Gezita: dice

ue estero un monento, Despues la saluda a Marro

¿procudi sa so lo secuesda suu ey

su viejo auico do 5an50

Domingo y qui tu

estanno do conandante de la Gurrito en julaelo.

MOlDlo lo recuerda irraquita al 08 "Illllia lin cico qui 31

y que llega nyer a dar ma lasoo ya saludái a los dudos s

COLo no conocla dato a 0g0 vino, y vino cosi su cajoso y aatán

en el ilotal lixford en la cailo Variacal 071 qu viso a coreogals

jan visas de linateralro Montin va al rato a licar a la sobajado.

Despros otro It saluda a Millo y lo dice rucetualo" - risas.

Y que se vino munejanio desde Guatonula pero ahora que esca on

la ciudad do tóxico no so itrevo a a tergo a las callos por pl

trifrico enormoo 1ousd pido lo osperen ua sito jues to Bardo

on largaro ll dier die on Santo Domingo lo Bindaron un 1acro do

FAT: PRECIA que sa titulo acuerno o jairla y lo dojo en...

(hoga uno)

---

## Page 79

77-

850

110.

126=

..d.o

:o: C9c9901-à p:50 5a la pailna 1a9 to soneloson y dlco cobro

una forra brillanto de lna actuaciónos do HURENO o aos que dioos

• ol COrone! MARCO NIO JORGE MORESO SuA miovado do la o

Viotos ts deojuea de haber derrotado a mia do cinco 111 irna00

politicos y quo 08o lo coste que la incuran de allí°, sel que

gulore docla que tu noubre adtá pura la hiatorda ya romquo

Simbas an un 110r0. 100 s0 logra do sibur ado y d1oo que

01 ratO 8u VUrÁn, HU Vino con G:Llili con ou dopoga o hijoa

y derpuos trín a busois a Millo pira unase solos juntoo..

77-

Entrada- 0250 hilo- 15 do parto de MORa Li propusto

por lailla para autorlo que orti nuforto y que ao turo que 1r

Entriula - 1001 hra.- L.-1T on Ildlas profunta por naN:

FINLO, MARITO On ElOGO INGLAS Aniorea quo no ODEl y qio llega

el luna Moro: o quo llano al sotol Fuireador. 110.

•Entradios 1012 hr8.- lif por JOiT: PRINK tajli el cónaul.

cando on un sobro y ironea 00d0 e8tl la tradlia. TV'II quo blo

tódoa y plua não la carta que le va e mundar se la haga linear

10 das prontO pOSiUlo jonuO la urGontO - ¡NiDOS sI dobe do

suaponde? ¡or aljo ol viaje so lo arlaará, jorgur in a habita

con Dili para yer si alla tanbien va y que la manda a la

poroona jibri que lo arroglo ai pagajorto y la visa. liiIi que

0sta bier:.- 126-

intrada 1015 Hrg.- MALDES DE FILiO jregunta st 103

hen Ilnmnelo, Denn MilINi que à cal Rero lo 11a.g50s do Letrion

( 1101a dos)

---

## Page 80

14.00000

x34=

142-

1430

swino

•= 3.

•.. 1n1ron que lia dijo que catalu su una junti y 400 11azrss

aus tarino danc los que al llana do dea gão ya dilo jura ol'

congrado a berearine furti: que cats iluss.- 13%=

SalIda 01 46-63-70.- 1012 ArO.-YADIRi d100 Ó MLiII Jue

por in tardo so von para codor juntas = 142-

Pintrada o 1021 hra.-lli por la dirección do la lisbajinilo.

GURidi do 1a projorotora, - 1:3-

SalIda el 86d,a70 - 1021 Druo NITM: prominti do curto

de MAMIliA duro arunodo ol stino 18 ed00 que ga blos y qua

OLLA ViA A OBTETAI A BU MOMITO QUe IlUGUR lUY - 15iS=

1580

174-

123-

20%-

LilIslo lalIsi alce quo ya nojor. cril TIll untá caisrando pesquo

se illorto do jura gro y ostorá lacamio jura solor al 1loga «

li ordagudo, laiINA que catA blallo 193-

tatrada,- 1109 hru, l0° por ol agrobado de irarion. Yallr.

110e que ILatie a1 26031-29 (auxis do ua o0n 14 :IGrii) - 20i-

¿atrada - 1110 hrg.- ¿CHUs DE PIALid preginta ni 1lo58

au esposo liNo Guallió y despues lital dion que la estás peroras

duo Resinos Mir EDE reclara a lilli que la hiso 1o a buscarlo,

---

## Page 81

14-00000

240-

2600.

350-

313=

4020

o.. sus al buido a lucir el ángunito. rae que cost bion y quo

ol nati en capora de una 1lanada do tatados ladron, pomo no

dejaron dicho do que ciudad oro, puro si os do catdios linidos.

1o primero yun le pensado os en itilo poro

tieno que astar

asperaido de nievo li linado, tenertos que no la de ser cada

crado do lo contrario tu lubieran dejado recalo, - 240

intrado,- 111? hro.-CiT:TIX: pregunta pos Mili para

Dabas o1 1loco a la Bulo 'ada MARCO; SE G: 100:100 inte dico d

¡ue vino por un rato pero vu a sallr do nuevo jorqu: anda con

loù agreridoa militarca dol salvador y otros que la vinteron a

buscuro CRIstili crula yuu lo ostaba hugrado e precuren al

ruciosa le d1p0 que ol alercolve tratrril do hablis con el, por-

que yo no puodo estarlo asperado mus 10y.- 260-

Intrada, 1127 nes- erasehis shor con preste: para

dectilo que dando die tvo copusando cubl una hora j itir diora

tensil que depurar diso dia pora por cuando de alena vorta.o alao

- Uino.- Y grudon do vergo mainuo Jido blagueado -352-

¡allan aln contestación y ocupadas. - 373-

tallano- cornel Mala reclara a la capresa loloios.

cuo duà tolonleos que compraron est? en unlas comilciones y

nocralta que lo vigias i vos a su dosicilio dn Horodoto 30-102

y que lo venale Jun VilDido dif tona el rujorte, - 402-

julido al 1:-15-86 - 1140 hra,- veupido -y sin contestación.

deldo equivocado alia TresiDEa con si alja y degpues con au

( hoja cuatro)

---

## Page 82

14-00000

4540

426-

5150

554-

con,

•:5.0

... esposa JOSEFI NUira y pido que llane a la agencia en que

compraron la teloviaton pars que ds los datro in factura y dónas.

I que miñana va a terer que hacer mas cena porque livito a unos

an1dos a111tares y a HAlCOS. - 454-

Salida al 37-03-16,- 1143 hrS.- MU por MinUEL. ld dico

que no estl. lli quu lo diga que no le diuren irgas en la -

oubajada jorque la bagiiina no está aquí. IN rilce que se espero

§ que ahora van a reclaras. -496-

Entrada,- 1145 hTs.- CRIIM!:: aulaa a MilIi! que ya va

de enlida y tieno que catar a uno sian y quo después hacen

planos para mañana. - 515-

intrada, - 1147 hre.- ME MIROSDE LENn Prominta por GuiMAN.

MIRINA dICE qUe COjOrA 1 Gomento, Despues StacrorS proguita el

ya Llogh la viaa del Dr. (8). GUilli que van a osporar que

Se la maidon do RelaCionoB. lE MUNCRO' S gin SOn trUS VISaB Y

que una de ollas pa do su marí. Despues lD TERISITi dico que

Ilate despues para mientras lloçan 03a3 +1638.-354-

intrada.- 1155 hrB.- MIGron saluda a cuRra y dice que

acaba do sacluir ura curta dal as señor ese de Santo Doningo

precintandole pos su viaa, linIl va a vor uso y irogunta si

se va sieruro e1 23 para-que ajroveche la tora de posostón.

UGNOY se quiere 15 antos y quion sibe a1 espete para la fecha

de la tona do vosesion. Desjung MIGrC! inforna a

GUAL! que

acaba de rocibir una carta de FEDeRICO que quiera saber sobre

sus visas. GUAlN que ya

salló al chofer por ellas a Gobernación.

MIGAlE so quirre 15 para al ula 18 y gulero Ilivaroo la visa

para FintuICho GUzit 1u arriala ol asunto al atercolia. - 587-

---

## Page 83

597-

635-

659-

667-

735-

757-

intrada sin contesticiéno- furti.- y sallu: sin contrata-

ciónoa y ocupado. - 63j

Saliia,- (Corenoatal)- Taisa preguita el ninero de tell-

fono donde se colebró la conferencia de desuuclearización.

IF dice quo es 01 26-25-60.- 659-

-Bocina descolgara - 667-

ialdd3 a1 26-25-600- 1205 hrso- (CCIP"P:l) - Tili'.d pido

corrui learse con alguna persona del archiro, pues l!? PIALO

desea solicitas unos docuertos gauri las ultlias declaraciones

dol corRaLa IP dice que raparo un ponente. l'espues Rati cleu .

que es ei delegado do la couintena ante la CornilAL y uncosita

con urgencia do las dos ultitis sesiones que no fueron rojurtidas

jor falta do tionio o sea con ol ocsa final que aunas tros y

sus coelonos conjuntas que se sonetió a la troa en el momento do

cerrar y que cupron los paises actuzaies ircontina, julivi

Brasil, ¡eri, Fanará, Doninicana y Verezurla. la toriza y ofruco

cundar esos documentos a na tardas bizana. Mai: que en toùo caso

al a las dos no le 1l'can puede pasar po= pilos jour tione quo

hacer su correnicación oficial ante su mbierno. - 738-

a la oficina de furballo d01 Motel Decerador, oro no lay naclo.

- 757-

salic: al 46-09-73-- 121- hrs.-EaI SalUda s HARTIN y

pregunta dir hay de suero. iste dice que nada que on el trabajo

fecundo y creaduro GUIll: pregunta si 5i sale que llegl in nuero

"isoja seis)

---

## Page 84

14-00000

ee.

•.7.

•.. Jeto de Misón. "NTI: no lo silla y Irut:on si artancos

ya rendiclo a au cargo lincio viini. diado que no que este

nuevo quio vinne llula coun incurgudo de "Uppilos, y cabbla de

Enia y dica que ostá en lutos iumentos escribiando una carta

¡OrA MASERIO ¿URJGI y compandi que ca la aconola aduanal y

qUO en Su MONDrO DA JOSI: FRA CISCO M'IN jor hucor esas p0061a":•

ties de

la frasjulola diplonatica do libro Importación dol cuto.

1011 un fora tampart unartapase conporal sordi acuario do

la oficina do luclotro tadural do lutoraviles. turtii está do

acrardo y ol sinso junio darlo conteatación a dan sollestud.

Guill! quo no conventonte luour al endose do la factura y ordo

....

10070-15-1 12y0 (6)

...

50-6-3114

---

## Page 85

14-00000

DISPATCH

DCHBID/C

Chief, IN D1818109

PRUGESSING ACTION

" SECRAT/RAPES:

NO LADLINE RETONATO

эко

FROM.

RANCT

TYPIC/AMBODILIY BAT

ACTION RIQUIRED FUFURINDES

ActiaR requireds pans to TDosaa G, UIQUAARE

pornerdod hereulth la verballa conversation botkoon Judith YEASTTO

and AdaLLas LINDBIAS CA 20 HOVERDOT IPS, (SUVICO: LIFEAT)

Wuurd c. cums

tie: 1.

As stacod a Heronica

3 - PIles

ESt 27883

SBERET/ KAPCE

5613214

15 Decerebar 1965

MG SHal 2O1 - 020481

---

## Page 86

99 929 No. 13

JUDY:

A2:

JUDY:

AZ:

aujer, ju ie irregliron el ¡clécoro?

Ya

re de llaaado.

JUDY:

AZ:

JUDY:

AZ:

JUDY:

4

AZ:

38.ottron 1o3 C.olis, aoriue los sc010-

dadores do l03

¡linteron y yo les

que tojavia no

paisto juljeron no inporta, chora voy a

iener que pagar la racia Incrilacion.

¡ 8J0

no vii por caert: de eidos?

to. Y cu-o do inceu

nices i1 no la :redes sin teloiono.

tro ni filaarls..

ügrl, en pr.der luar siber doo.

Pues Liego auy Curseja

cou la alidra lucgo rotg la dio gripa

y lueco pues la 1.

frentin,

¿ uno do prusuce lapresiún

un

virje.i3l,

101

inice

suero de

su vijo

ier

& 8

vulto todu

lo que de insciraba

Pucs fianta

que ei

11 :

lo jutse Jocir,

tan

оСиті!

con..:0

scuorias? dis

en

recibido

carte

de

clus y nould de

leer

durde dico: declbi tino en curto do

AÜSMINA

aonde

11Ce

C03.16

iny tonicia tuysis. Lueno as sican-

cotioc

¡tierdo noabro) de úlcea quando

viere...(dual:

1n :

leer y dice:,

el sucisens de

Fid

31n

avisarao des.

de ja,ulla y de

Precrero net iserece gende 2°3108 antes

de -ue.

AZ: Л0,

¡unta an sl el hiuls aqui do eso, :lio lo crise-

r1 ólidon cesultados.

Legando a coms lo aniornion j estird insta noy en ei logl-

111.

jerende aueno de lis en crerie no presunta (ue rion) (eor-

dináo Lejoio il cirta)...

sucho en seribime,

espero in prédia, ree

un

105420

pare Aneilli,

conirido il du clara.

rio ha-en-

No do TuDO CACUniros TOrdo de uDO GiY GAlO en'TriCsto, sxiCta-

Menia dos dilatu?

estibu en Fort él ja estiba en ca-

Nino arerrer, romle lo efüribien

TiTlibidj is dijo lo

Le dido que de ba.c.ira

• el arijllo cuchucho si ro se

encuent.a e:: 51

Di: no is i0 dice,

To: ciento que le pregunté

FUr SU

Enal j me d116: "bueno, vive en cuedtla día trinquilia,

JUDY:

de:

inta ciria es del 305

el cachicho salid el 30 y ae dicer pasa-

do añana

ingresi

ie voj a cont star esta yesana-

je voj a iscribir iù isbien, éì quisior. que codos los días le

egerlbieian.

(cont..

50-4-5114

---

## Page 87

. 1

(003:

NUDY:

Aü:

JUC!:

A38

ЛіРІ:

a2:

AZ!

•TUD. ::

AZ:

JUDY:

A2:

duüt:

Az:

JUDI:

AZ:

JUDY:

Az:

2

De pisada

mindart in tragulto de renuila coco recuerdo de

esto hermoso paía.

jue

no fuele conir nada, por eso lo encerraron

jo, lo encerraron po= io da su rierna.

se urbio jüerido interar y lo 100f1 estado alaret y alare

dieis creacnda ontro ella n1 ge.1 de alcohol

ni dota do vino, ¿lca: "y ¿ú yo sabra có.o es ul capá".

jus otra cras te 1b1 1 jecif.ulra, de lo do Carlos Pallloer

cir.ers...

(Iniorruape) yo cablá cou di

Sí el ae aljo.

2h01r1gte

Iter, de 30u0 donu fué (AZ la Into-

rriapo y dicoi si la ief.) Jud, cortanus an delate la carta.:

Lespués se dijo, no hay nada que ircer, yo le nuble al o:ro dia.

as dijo: nira

vino el secretirio

vei selior our su monten do ex-

audas y sa Miro un donion de malagos,

ue e,tuvo aila do sedia hora

condado y inte

0J0

de da dejarando coapletinento.

sí, pero af so ruede ribiler la corta.

fero en dóndo;

en El jía no la rablioan.

la tuviican: Yo

13 pirle a todos ios lujares que rude, no

entiendes? fuere.

lo, ni de chiste, yo de sidoi miru, yo rodri dicer un comentaris

us contestúri lo entiendo,

den'u creo que so se puede hacer,

así so dijo eso día.

jo estuve con él, en li cada.

(interruane) no dijo ;ue :nofs hiblido i "Política" a ver 31 30a00

pero a cualiuler revisia o periódico ue la rublique,

el papel, así tranjulisaente, yo compro "sicapre" pensando que ya

saliera algo y ni una rallora, ni jucesos fijate tú.

da, antes de que se se olvido, quá hay en la de MAURAZo angelina

Prison superiores a la bueia

SuBen superiore a la del formelo de diriges creados en el

¿apérute un segundito..., la perdona.

Bueno, entonces, al rues er verand tratibi de hacar un partido

y.. do purilicirlo vssos.. y los artereses creados mis

sando en conirà de al, rajdua por esos interesey no la permitió

realizar la que el quería.

Verdad que es un noabre suy sonrido?

El es nonrado, auy auy bonado, un roco desbocado coso buen

"abasqueño,

u?:

roco arbitairio, porjue él en

su vida ha ido asf

= brinesa jua surarido dno couly, pero ques lig mañas de todo

esto j adecís intereses personiles

terribles, en Chihuanus, on

Sinaloa, en donde el ler:zundisno de los nuevos ricos de los nua-

---

## Page 88

(cont..

JUDY&

128

JUSYS

- 3 -

vos fortirlutas, pues no se deja dan ir pira nada y luego cuirdo

no auj en realidad un movinierto ropulir desde li tico, ercarizado

dondo no hisy una silitancia renidor ringun rartido e ircluyo al

laudo la Inierruspe sicierde "eliro, carro" y no so escuchael nos-

bro sal rirtivo) que ruedes tu iror, a1 yo & veces

coso López isleos no ireité todo id diablo de fue a la corocua

¡s vadeo que euti auy enterao.

Lores 1dt008?

5I, TOF, NO yO

¡anéu de ollerto 8 dl Be:ora AlVires daiquita, que

do

CUENTE

11.d:

118: 40121

de cino out.í

lo eld el doctor,

entro

dice a.

puta

bueno, una cüua

Estando,

по?

DUOrO y que V!! lE Con O1

v 3t

antoncos jo alad le

nidad

o1 niùlo dara iriluanotsu

sobro di porque usted

, no

aalja dei iio.

41.000

que de laulga ol, poriuo

tiene

una alabatou y no inconcen

0:80,

eutil sulfaino,

118лA

fin

no? poro entuncos.

consejit

ellu, feru s1

11t00% eNt.)

leuil o peor, por la un jir de

io.un delor

de abuela, casi coul de les cuoro, de dicos pare jo

sabe lo

¿uo o0 d: cosA no la pollilea y del To:er y eso, dice:

8d 6.80:

solia euparando el noibramiento esto, poruue so ruadorestin dis

cugas.. no lo uijo sjsr.

lo de labiano que alce cenla juryuo..

Interrare.. as lo dijo cudo coud deria, que do leS UidO 50r1I..

cirta de l., conceutando pi balegria. doi il: do au

euture un sda.nto)..

contindio de cuid uno airel por idosis le le iociie

incluslys

2000.1.11. do

de tor t.bla. voz

os usted.

vor inni

cultiono ie dan derónido roro no

di.o

usted

ue to

atie

enileido

asted? ... Y yo

19 : 1а.1,

quien alli de la in

srigi.rido

Peaud84.0

lu conteraile

Adorro

1U40 1130

e:.

SU CHOR S

ja e:lalil

ie sid oficina:

da1f.

dre jo?

an cidus siro,

10=2r0

cuchly cos.e, rote jo no

pregunit iorüe yo se

CóMo

isra enterao, porque

auy citasto, por esu

Yo ilae asblar con

AYA"

l1:i10:a, poro il de did

POlide

086

de

uiJe

ee сіс

М:0EG.

Trasidenta todarla cro una ola

de onde silly a

J120:

91 15 J910VI8.0r0

Pensar ue cod dars, poriue los dos Man uno ior un

---

## Page 89

(00:t..

NUY8

A38

JUDY8

A'L8

N:

civis

A'ú!

d':

4

1'ãu s otro por duro cuindo trenon iriundo, tero di ya sul va &

9ã quo dl cuti criterco.

ño ¡ueu do sue de, que estuvo variamente sal.

J13096e8

asocional, dE de sub: la 17u01F pOr MOrIJ Y Ue

de

li'd

lo lo radla visto lsatarde bien j do rejerto

desa"arooldo, jo cros lue eitos lribijar.uo

en is incor

verialon.

lonan

Eren 65ve9

1o do Cuilo, pOro alta 110 joncos que ua

durar aucio.

jo aurió dna inyou,

19шdd йnoа1d a010116109. 091 г Inere10, no

bicer,

1i0 irandonoudonia y

so fud

rolindo.

iurld el

810E0

3,

AMIUCO VI

job iclo vords1?

bueno,

antonoe

y.0

Jd.s

101 368b1650 d0 191.19 37.0-61195-

согла.

030

wigt

3.91.

NO MIblINOSTOr

601450110

dincurso.

Lt0r.00

¿ué Carido

10

del

doni condido con

s: 80 1010261:903.

ý 63r.61

у по

"uydo

dir coni

me dá mucho

ürilon

joviética,

er.

air forjue

o r.an

orlielando Poliug an nillan nuabr. do

80180 4195185655

a.af

nilo y ole

10 6anli:40

reau.

tori.

ocorrer"

lueco. ru.g obra viooy yo:piedo

inJ' to

a: al dido, lid rio babos

cuta coero de on rue to decora recrea falad

tanta cuian

ruis, 1011l ind

An: 11y00.

Yó isco encho nu li vola, por ua lo donde soll, encunbraras con

0117

VCIICr.17.

erra ad nestender

jinf

VIdE

=*:

Lis iv.

sid nocir pont

•Oro Ayu!.

Buo: o muri vila fue la risora que ao dilo;co er in aldo suy

diffoil en sue

с6лO 100:01 10001101.:011° 001.0.0

Al buonio,

Ceo de melli nablla timbiono do do rio do vonta

Carlos Peillcar,

celi tortion do un ¿ruço

de diabred do lo mia desbicado do LArico, do rorionildsdes en to-

dos los cairoo,

coleichte suj ..onr..i,

dido à ruglerü! O!: 10170.

de cirlos le licer und r. ciclén

1.r00'" de para qus le libere

r. 1

RIu do U30 no? B1N0 tUri que do dep. do olla j' 140

Frioneis,

urit

mio virlos l periecidaunte huains.

inconces jurios

deblo haver

ido en rairu.en:-ciúnsel aturo

u0-

POSILiT en 1110:40...

do le van a contosair nids.

io, no no, ir persorvinonio d le jala, de rabiandes?

Pues no de van a bicer ciso:

...:!.

0, '1?

¡ resulto cus enconces ei ue tudo, con sucia racon poraus apul

sudos cundo eso, j estata 10ci00a poriie ligin cosis .181.

intoncus de ide anul, durde uni es du saldi o ango, que es el

..

---

## Page 90

(cont..

A38

AZ8

AZ8

JUNY&

sissiador,

y l's

ror.jue

tenston

vitado.

uy a notoria delina de lave Pongad

04.9182d0

10

exiralilo

У ДУ

dijo,

culan irciando un jobierno decioriiico o que.

Mas.o, eso so lo ciclenion.

sie.

so Adelina no, yo odiu fineso no de luidon ionor a ostis

ALLUTIN.

c.0:.0.

913: 5

Mo, a Podese atierrado o cocun eros

110.1o of lodl de repro

entierro, Buconoco dù fui oi la 211.109 9 1'18

Luve alil

SnN daN 10839 8ü 149

tr7-

1410

idilas dis

interuano y de ride tuo abjero ui sosento

centinuts

1y dijue yo no voy

• ir el corriso soro volveré

Sid

10111°

caier.t.r..

cribajo, y dico-Ivinente eni lo

rocie

oun todo y la

на 9

tuf sero

andaba auy sid,

lie lardo estade norrible.

1570

J.O 20

ablando con cua ante que le abado didl alamixe 10 sote

et-9910.10

noc11-1010kid-44: 1102z 1990

34, 01

saurito no eo que sea o no

1%8

A28

JUDY!

voy

dedir que poro sí co una ocus qui iravo, porjue cató

dese

una dituición pir,

terrible.

;u? a para fue a ceria, que no 10 coj ron audiar sía,ua

(irierruagel bueno clis nadie eill "saienio cido la ilberen,

<8 156.0001

uo un reiracuogo do los vluros suy condeo coàd

dido

jobierno y que jo croi con al s sen60s

Ya 10 in los de vio: a radio.

muere, poro inf llj conbe 110 ind 1d0 j is Victio y . Laue 2111

У e1

INUNOrOUD.l: 1 0300) 81121j

n0 ha;

vidado

inclviauo cuo di dotordido los.

que lo respeta cu.o do dai.,

en noabro o nuo

va en repre. ontlclón do la gande día llagle dodiico,

citon diciende il

A':

judis

75ot0 hicen en lodos los ta

que tates sol aundo din escorosón, en-

concos cito ul de una v. louonia y 1a

que aguas 19u1 i3 a susentir

aute aruño de ientos lengo que autorar con justa razon a

niclir sill de cito subierno.

Fueno jo creo que dirlos yo no sera ali Preciienio doi Inuticute

alla, un concureo, en la visa de

quinces lo que

---

## Page 91

14-00000

-b.

cont..)

¡uerda jo Adolina, es que is lu e:cribieris a tufardo

torn

AZ:

Leano ceribo eu un nan suicido.

I8 au 0jtddo? jo no, a1 lar supe do que do nihias

oferado, pariuo ind anagl alo quo no da mundico pedir sedicinio

manjo 10j. do

jo si papi,

La.que.no

1:J0.

эх.varceв yа

de

10°

5.1 N09

Fa:

Iara 1461110 1055064080

do

pl

11010-549 1085.5.,u1id

socalacnte

lastmd Marüte

JUDY&

A'ZE

?

JUDYA S

ALS

h.:

L

A2:

гілог.

d'o

1000

rapid,

THON

•o1doo

ITOd.

оро-

116 cu to For;uo

TOJO Y

yuo me

B0011O

•сотя

•ró

cion

Nö

ie

co1b.uo

isso 016

01d0-0000100

• :8

CECrIbIr

40 yo

1.11,

CAT63

¿dsia,

1taH.000126

dica!

Anjcilns.lio

Saibaba alo, y lo

voy

1?e.

hablos con

41

lião

+8Ö1U8

Já de uns renal que ro vuelvo a

1.1

10jen

131

31o,

DYC4

U0018

109:511.14.

+ 0

#TA C603, 130 0:1105

I518:10 1u9905-9n:50.

TOV011010N5380645

colauliddo

30.

11 id19

03:9187:0

ni zuaro

abdd it i

a. 01'08

Eac da verdienza, lidar

jud

19504,

estade jul

...lоі: сльl.d0.

versanza.

teoil Els: 63+5 9188 00618

d.3

31,

no !:

¿o Mia!?,

r.i.visron,

c.113

¿:jo

109 1i0

Miu nerais de vieros

de c.:: Au;

1OI9IE11

en quilos

1o3 doa

said;

i.dt.

-10:ia

Peruon:1.

"Ut.

Lun:.o

4%:

JUDY:

n"!!

agirt:

i1l0 dia Critide

113130a,

je seion

cicerrar.

Fu:s oyu

era lo que uerí: do mble contido, tor;ue realaerte

---

## Page 92

соnt..)

128

42s.

JUDYS

128.

JuUrY

¿UUYS

AZI

JUD::

N28

З В:8

1%8

800olu: 1e0:0. ?15061011905

i1ra, un. ifi se

ti va"

roj1le.

BNO

palo,

;=÷

1o.v1o

•i!! coão

acr.laculo

jue birbiridas.

o

ble

eliaro.

que

do

side

1029.019

01: ;

vin

su!

C0r.

-1:08

v:"

7:99

7:11.

20:6

attutens

VIten

20.

4:je,

di.it y 0r0o

ONGUICTO

cassato sigudon

d150

"Fäo

39d110 que

reds d.ivar:yn

139.

Puru

uo birbiridad, un conda la conta dal que sabler, con la

0n d3 8110.

Nu.

yodid

no

§5.1011:1.

860

018, 70 1108-501.

81d€

19:9..0

140:8

4:50u60,

malia:U.

no e dip dellatano dia no

nadie

auti

resicitro

luene, :e

ie:

inct"" d

juntu

no purden irair, de coria

Waterat trebe do sper io

frai

А¿:

Buona ques andic.l: al :u9501

-o no A

ip bialerita.

yo sill ?

la exr-rioneld.

11utis do illi, mus cave cidi 200, 103::21:0.

110

2!J0

portere

d713.1510

19J60:

18 GLi

= 3

de

1210086041

c-ir.le an atre

13

ruerty

440101 d07119040, 9

T:ers.

A sf

il neo ilenen deed cianoo duy corridea •

$ #1

ai inoliado a hall, a nada.

---

## Page 93

14-00000

(eo:st..

JUSY&

AZ8.

AZ

AÏS

d'Es

-

j!, yid

3e,

A 5aJ1,

Gl0r6;0

32001€

nicer

iseo

TrentAle÷'

tirdor.

Incidio

0140 da ordidas

reparo do italdo

sed.in

tes.19

n1=o

нd.:

jentod

Y jit.

aiad, nif!e

TOLOUND I

CERNANiO 2U900 PI DA 1179,

r:U.

cutico

11690,

163

1000N0N 11E:r.

0411

01.10s.l:ee.

4

cit:

rudden

1.8d15

01110=1

0:a1.1

1d9;

1143

*19

clu::=d

de

633.60

1:0

rs:l0s

Si 80;

d..81*:1

18.101

1$11.00

con

15.8 100.11

coner

152.60 8.6r.4

HOUE0I0T

• 1

g40.d, 119.

26550

: 0

ve:1

dire Tisd

dati al 1 ta

9169

1o

•luo

10 1r..0n81

1.10

8199 931417

1$128

al choies,

+18.

€:

volvita, do rio,

10-00.

Juane, Visui i VeS dii di tion 180d d9 colad ilinoras duplina,

3 re 10 te:da in 8.0,015

•01÷4101

81143 94 V.001086510

MOno Welle. 1ed010d.

ao.olo, 1900

1116.6÷0 uni

1nv16.r:0..E0u01.

Y.1al°

tall

mista,

1.009

10r140 9850 - 19:103, 3 1:00

die ciril.

dos cinis.

•сог

tuto dai

Moldo, tuttice

34l5o 1

3

---

## Page 94

4-00000

- 9 -

dent..)

AZ8

•Sí j1 albo yue ered tù, sou vedoa 1d168.

Adids..

i...

---

## Page 95

14-00000

prison

MESSAGE PORS

TOTAL COPIES.

918: 52/4/8

O INDEX

SECRET

сат : 5559

@ NO INERA

MATE: 23 September 1955 tremesmuena 201-T7é0i6

TO I RONE IZOCO CITY

PROM: DIRECTOR

CON WER

Di.

SỞ-XIXXXIC

26

?

2450S5

18

into 1a

65331

PER OIIS-24382 PARA 7, IS ADVISE METTELI SOU CONCUR DISCONTININO LIL.

OCVEERIE CARLO COCCIOLI (201-TIGOH6) NAILE GENIUTO HATCIRISE ILE TINVEL, DISO.

p.n..

AELLADIMO ONFICIA

REPRODUETION DY OTNER THAN INE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRENDELO.

---

## Page 96

10

DISPATCH

Chiofe Mi Division

CLASSINICAIION

SFCRET

XXY

PROCISSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXIAO

NO INUIXINO MQUIREO

A'LY QUALIFIRO DES

AN JUAGE INDRAIN

TOM

SUBUACT

Cher or staten, lexice Clty

Enrique stil calar

ACTION REQUIRLO - MPARENCAS

1. Attached for Headquarterg' inforsation and ratontion

aro coples of the LiFEAT curerago on Subject, reol 4269 through

real 1a7? for the perlod 3 through 11 July 1965 and rool fl

through rool #16 for the parlor 11 luly through l6 Augurt 1965.

2. This coverago was touporarily discontinued Pros 15

through 30 July because of tochuleal diffirultion with the

instrument in the seno homo..

for

Hilllard C. CUTTIS

sirachmont:

As alaled in paragraph !

NILD, w/att

31S REFERENCE 1O

Tilli

DATE

DISPAICH SYMADI ADD MUMACA

IЛNA-26,933

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

19 August 1965

MES FILE NUMBER

201-743927

---

## Page 97

DISPATCH

_ Chief. LED

CLASSIPICAIION

SECRET

PRUCESSING ACTION

MARKEO FOR INDEMINO

NO INOAXIMO REQUINTO

ONLY QUALIFIRO DiESE

CAN JULIA INDEXINO

RUCT DA:TLT/LIFLIT/Cporational

1. Parvarded herevitl for translation of tho Yugoslav portions are lha

Pollovilno! IPLIT Lapes: 7, 9, 10; 11,12 & 14. Also forwardled are the following

Sjanian transcisto: %, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 & 14.

2. Pocauso of the DiSMUCIA flap, tho Spanisi transcripto ot tho !IFEAT

capos will continue tiu the ond of this wook (10 Aull), aitor that there will

bu no transcriberg dono in tho fiold.

"illlard C. CUitTIS

Machinki

3 - LED w/att h/w

2 - Flies

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATEN SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HЛÁMA-25814

CLATCITICATICA

DAlE

8 Apoll 1965

50-3-212

---

## Page 98

4-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

RECOOT GOGORDIEG TERICA ADDED BRECH,

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

Dranteent of state

February 1953

COUNTRY

Misjuslivia, Mexico

DISSEN. .

A.. 1008 8

C3-3/538,352

creditit T

MR HENAN BERET PLEASE FIUDE BANGARICH

SUBJECT

ruzoslav. Connercial Activities 1a lexi-so

EXEST OF TECH - ROMER

•EVALUATOR:

Plense compléte, lhis evaluation mithin -ivays of encipe of recuest.

nira por completion nitrin this

sirio is privrity.stand.rd.

ladicare choices dy "x.o ll irmmrhen is printoo in italics. please crolair

•evalultor's cunsenes."

-normaily, pul one l in e sea approsriate sertion.

otherwise, plesse cover esch of prese

asppels in your corments.: For, lurther mores on use of this form, see reverso.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

COLLECTOR'S CONMENTS ANO QUESTIONS

MODERATE

LIPPLE

MPORTANE IN

ELATION PO

oun

lia sou"d appreciate jour coacents evaluatiag

this seport.

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIDUTES TO OUR AMOOLEDGE OF IME

1108101090968.

EVALUATOR'S CONMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

• 6.

MATION

do a siritur le ort, document is of modernte value.

ünscrally ni. ¡eave progross of Yugo autonres

establist. a correrichal foothold in Manico not in

Itself of crei: intorest so this offico, as cris

tine, but would inercase in Inte est in direct

rel: 110380 insomátion on decisi en of Belorado.

ec ¿rant a lcan to dexican sort.

TO DENIET

OUR COLLECTION ALEOS

AREOS.

HEEOS.

YOUR ACQUIREMENT

18 СIТКО.Я МЕРОЯТ

NEGUIREMEYT

CAN DE CLOSIO.

BUT NICO CONTINUTS.

nlor1e1r11.

118

SUBJECT

PORTING DOES MOT

YOU NATE TOL

IMPORTANT

1o You.

MINIMLY HELDS.

ANO

EMENT:)

sOON.

REQUIRE.

EVALUATOR

MAME

(Pleasa print)

P. idler

DATE PIQUEST RECEIVEO.

Kar 1

* 39

COMPONENT

I:7/2:3/EA

IATE CVALUATION FORDARDI

•ar (

CONFIDENTIAL

× 3503*

1808

---

## Page 99

4-00000

(EGLLECTCR/F

SUAR

CONFIDENTIAL

RECLASSIFY ACCORDING T.* "STA

DED BELOW)

• CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY Stato Department

ANASUATING AGEACT

0193020.

orgrara. 27 Jarsary. 1961

CS-3/463,061

Chief

Country Mexico/Cuba

FIELD

MURDER

HM-5400

Lepecks

1a aprill

subject Moxican Toohnlolans. Ooing to Work In Cuba

EVALUATOR:

Plesse cimplete this enslüstion nishinbolüys of receips of reainist.

Meet for completion

within this

line is emioriapeslandaro.. Indicate choices by "a."

Il ison marned is printed in italics, please explain undor

"Evaluator's Cormenis."

orally, pul one a in each appropriate section.

othermise, please cover esch of preso

ascects in your carranes.

for further. adits on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT

15'0F:

40100.

MODERATE

LITTER

_ COLLECTOR'S CORRENTS AND QUESTIONS

IMPORTANCE

AdLATIDN TO

OUR NERDS.

INT ORMAT 10M

REPORT:

SLOTTON

THE

I

MODRRATELT

-NEGLIGIOLY

SUOSTANTIALLY YOUR

EVALUATOR'S: CORMENTS ANO FOLLOR-UP QUESTIONS

•Thla ropori voidd havo boon of groator valuo 18

18 had. Included done conaent on

tho polltical

ariontation of tho tochniciana (11 any) and whother

thoy vore balag seat by the Mardcan Govorament ar

voro birod on à puroly personal baslo.

JUDGE

1ом.

MATION.

OTHER

INFOOMATION

ASPECTINO USEPULNEBS

OUR COLLECTION MELOS

OT wI#

NETS.

MOST

OUR

MIMINUS NEEDS.

none

DUS HEROS.

YOUD RIQUIDININT IS CITEO.I RIPORT

COMtY

ATISFIRS

DEQUINCHINT CAN

BE CLOSIO.

=.

• 17:...

Parlion ol roguiranons

PARTIALLY, DUT ALLO CONTINUES.

NEGLIGIOLT

To you.

OTMEO

lates.

AND

PORTING DOES NOT

YOU HAvE

FILED NO REQUIREMENTED

8.

FILL

OUR

NECO

MINT FOR

cs

veronathr

MAME (PIRADO POlAR)

A HIQUIRENINT SOON.

ACQUIRE.

EVALUATOR

Laurerco S. Eagloburgor

DATE ACQUIST

March

RECEIVED

17,

1961

10:7on

COMPOMENT

Stato, INR/RAR/MAB

DATE SVALUATION TORMARDRO

March 22, 1961.

CANE DENIAS

PHOME

182-2097

25 1208

---

## Page 100

CONFIDENTIAL

(COLLECTOR/EVA "NIC RECLASSIY ACCORDING TO

'A

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY.

Department of State

EVALUATIMG AGENCY

SED BELOW

HEFAT

Traliatien

DATE 0F

2 November 1960

DISSEN.

MUMBER

CS-314540233

PAIL

-017

Chief

Country

Mexico/licaragua

FIELD

NUMBER

2: 15,

1NM-526L

Sübject

Nicaraguan Retolutionary Activities in Mexico

Prease corplete this eváluation mithindQuays of receipt of request, Neer for completion within this

line is Itali/standard. Indicate choices by

Ip item marked is printed in italics, please explain under

"Evaluator's carments, " Morally, put one x in each appropriate section, Othermise, please cover each of inese

assetss in your comments.

For furthér notes on use of this ford, see reverse.

SUBJECT ÖR THIS, REPORT IS OF:

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

NOOLDATE..

S. LITPLE

Ho Tango"

OUR NEEDS.

IAFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

1091900111994

AMONLEDGE OF THE SUBJIETI

SIGNITICANTLY

SUNSTANTIALLY

MODERATELY

MEGLIGIBLY

ACCURACY.

SUBSTANTIALLY TRUE

Y

8. CHIDIALE

Doube let

EVALUATOR'S CONNENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

CANHOT BE JUDGED.

SEE D.

RELATION TO OTHER INTORMATION.

USEFUL FOR CONFIRMATION

¿BIFUL TOR ACE INFORMATION

Sultdelentlykroon

INFOR

MATION

3. Confliero ofth

inforsallos

USETULAESS

MAYE

GREATER DITHI

war.

herr

solder explod.

A. ISTATED

IN CONMENT)

NO DEFECT AFFECTING USESUENESS.

OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

OTNER REPORTING

MEETSI

1?..

OUR IMPORTANT NEEDS.

OUR MIMIMUM NEEDS.

DOS? OF OUR MINIMUM NEROS.

FIO OR MOME OF OUE NEEDS.

(ORLY

18 YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITEO. I REPORT

SATISFIES STA

FULLY.

RIQUIRIHENT CAN BE CLOSED

portion of requiresent

nay do

clorad.

PARTIALLY.

BUT NEED CONTINUES.

MEGLIGIDLY

1I8 SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU.

THER RE

PORTIME DOES

NOT MEET MIMIMUM NEEDS, AMI

Tou rAri

FILIO NO RIQUIRINENTIS

D. RE MILL PRESENT A REQUIPEMEMT SOON.

8.

OUA NEED DOES MOT MARRANT A REQUIRE.

MENT FOR LS NEPORTING.

NAME (PleONe PriNE)

EVALUATER

RT MOrrISON

DATE REQUEST DECEIVED

now 15°160

COMPONENT

IMP/RAR-P

DATE EVALUATION PRONARDES

Nor. 16/60

3327

---

## Page 101

(COLLECTOR/E. UA.

CONFIDENTIAL

I lead 93ie96

FELLASSIFY ACCORDING TU DATA MODEO EDUCH)

iceto

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

Department of State

EVALUATIAG AGENCY

SATE

315T918.

Calef

Cour.try

1 Nover.ber 1960

Kéxico/Cuba

OIS5EM.

NUMBER

FIELO

NUMBER

CS-3/2i54,903

HNM-5245

1 taek 61

"Subjéct: Propaganda Activlties of the Cuban Embassy In Hexico

EVALUATOR:

Please complera this evaluation mirninGDiays of receipt oi requesi.

need for completion within pris

¡it is stranddistandard. Indicate choices by "x..

It item marked is printed in italics, please exolain under

"Evaluator's comments..

somally, Dui one i in each appropriate section, Oinermise, please cover each of trese

assects in your commenis. For further KeTEs on use of this fora, see reverse..

SAJECT

OF THIS REPORT 1S OF:

COLLECTOR'S CONVENTS AND QUESTIONS

Hajor

IMPORTANCE

RELATION

OUR MEEOS.

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR AXONLEDGE OF THE SUBJECTI

SIGNIFICANTLY

SUASTARTIALLY

MODERATELY

MEGLIGIOLY

ACCURACY

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOT-UP QUESTIONS

SUASTANTIALLY TRUE

JUDGED.

INFORMATION.

USEFUL

FOR CONFIRMATION

FOR NEN IAFORMATION

Sullicensly snown

OTHER

INFORMATION

JUDGE

ACCURACY On

USEFULNESS

information

LSEFULNESS WOULD MAVE BEEN GREATER WITH,

пого

organizarion

oververtod

or

barror exploi.

boch.

-STATE.

IN COMMENT)

AFFECTING LSEFULNESS.

OUR COLLECTION NEEOS

REPORTING MEETS:

DUR

IMPORTANT

NEEDS.

OUR MINIMUS MEEDS.

NOST

OF OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.

FEN OR MUNE OF OUR NEEDS.

LINLY 18 YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITRO, I REPORT

SATISFIES

171

r. partially.

REQUIREMENT CAN BE CLOSED.

portion of roquiresent.

BUT NESO CONTINUES.

tIE SUBJECT

IMPORTANT TO YOU. OTHER RE

PEATING DOES

NOT

MEET

MIMIMUM NEEOS.

AND

YEU HAVE FILEO

NO REQUIREMENTI)

EVALUATOR

MILL

PRESEMP

QUA

HEED

REQUIREMINT SOON.

BARRAYT A REQUIRE.

MENT TON

MANE (PleBIe

PT Merrison

DATE REQUEST RECEIVED

110.39

COMPONENT

HIT RAMP

DATE AND TO TRIGO

3327

---

## Page 102

CONFIDENTIAL

10.10M00/5:1

CIA RECUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

03I

DISSIN

MINATA

=15.9018

2o Septembar 1960

C8 3/451,014

Mox1so/s0r1ot Union

HN44 5139

sübleci

Märiosa Coverisent Piraliaso of Sorlet Radiossotopies

Please complete pais railuton denia lays dr raid o rauctio

did ler compiction citrin lois

Inaicate choices by "x..

le item marked is printed in italies, please explain under

somally, sut one x in each appropriate section, ornermise, please cover exch of pnese

assets is pove conants.

for purinar nores on useíol phis Pom,

see reverse.

COLLECTOR'S CONVENTS AND OLESTIONS

MAJECT DE THIS ArARAT

15 05:

major

8. PSSEDATE

RELATION PO

OUR M889S.

IT'ORMTION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTAÍDITES TO DUE AMOOLEDGE OF TAR

34T..

EVALUATOR'S CORRENTS ANT FOLLOR-UP QUESTIONS

c2

Prees

IFEAT

folder

D3

IOSTODPIALEY TOVE

CaNNOT DE JOGED.

38t

USELL 61

•BEFUL

•ORMATION

JOFI

INFORNATION

USEFULL

.. .

ET

O.1S90189 19 CONTMe

AS CATACT APPICTIMO

MR CRLLECTICN AFEDS

D,:9T10G

Fl

aapled.

-=-

Der erro corridure.

SUBSCS 19 18999794T

po You.

POPINE SETS

arens.

B2

EVALLIATÃO

i...

;.8s 39

ANTURI

al P.Clarl

HALLARS W. LOHARD

RECTITIO

Coordinated Mith ISD/aI - 0. M. Delong

COUPONENT

A MOME

0SJ/15D

DATE EVALLASIDN PORRARDRO

CONFIDENTIAL

5

3933

---

## Page 103

4-00000

MiUniD USE OILY

INEIEITIL

SE:EA537 ACCOROEN EEANLÀ ROOD' DEGGN:

(CRELEGECS/EVANTOT:

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY.

KIFFAT

Icd

mnge.tein

inited States iririnscion iceney

Eodand"taü eitt:"

SATR OF

PISTAIO.

chiẹ:

Colrtry

1 November 1950

!DIsSEM.

AUMBER

CS-3/425,233

Kaxico/Ciba

¡CIELO

JUMBER

133:-5245

202 2016

cie

122 1o- 62

Süb ject

Propagasda Activitles oi the Cuban Erbassy in l'arico

Piease carplese inis évaluaiion miihir aajays of receiat ol resues:.

nes for completion miihin tris

rine is siitildistardardo Inticate choices dy "rao 18 isem marneu is sririei in icaliois, aicase explaia under

"Evalujtor's Comenis. " normaliy, pus one l in eseh approoriate section. disarmise, diease cover eaas of. srese

Especis in your connents. For Pursher mores on use of anis Porm, see reverse.

SUAJECT OF THIS NEPORT IS OFI

X. 1:

40108

MCJERATE

LITTLE

COLLECTOR'S COLRENIS ALO QUESTIONS

ІМФОРТАЖЕ МІ

ouA NECOs.

IAFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIOUPES TO DUE ASONLCOGE ON THE SUOJECTI

Tud91444A1r

werrareY

AEGLIGIOLY

EVALUATOR'S COMAENTS AL FOLLO-UP QUESTIONS

ARYANTIALET 1RUI

Teetre.

SEC O.

1147194

USErUL FOR

COSFIRMATION

USEELL TOR AIE

IAORNATION

si"sürticronily anoon

Infornation on cubes propaganda activities...

In litin Anerica is of Iija and contiruirg

I=portance to this oiflse, mich sust evaiurio

tiro nature, scope, ant exteni of those setivities

in order to combat the.

d.

JUSGE

"ACCURACY

IAFOAMAYION

0л

warulh1?4

.Conflacta

vith

inforaarion

USIEULAESS

labricarlon

Wt tta

GAJATIO DITHI

OEtAndTAт.O0

8a110n

• °0ue1100

or boeror osplol.

soen.

COUMCATI

DEECCT

AFFECTING USIFULNESS.

Кі'.

OUF

COLLECTION NEEDS

ПІНЯ АСОЗИТТО

WEKTS.

Xa

Mztmm mdl0s•

2. OJe MIMIMIM MEÇOS.

MiSI Or aa

MIAIMUM ANIOS.

A. FO GO RORE OF OLA MERUO.

10:LY IS 80-9 ASGUIRIMiGT

IS CITRO.I DEPCAT

SATISIIASIT,

ruddy.

AIJUIMIMIOT CAY DE CLOSEO.

Aeroue of cagureomone

aUT

nErd CUeTIUAS.

10F SUBAÍES IS iMDORTADY TO rOU.

STHER AN

POATIRE ÑOES DOP

MEET

WIDASC-O NEEOS.

YEU MA-E

POLCO DO GEQUINIMENTIO

=.

POCSENT A ALOUIDINCNT SCOS.

DOES SOT

ARA29T1

ALOUIDE

EVALUATOR

(PleadO ErIne)

Flora M. Roth

JATE RLQUEST RACEITEN

¿oräsber 3, 1960

IENELDINILADI

icoueosiai

Ofrice od Fesearch

and Arajrsás, üszi

FDATE CRAIGATTÃO CERORNO:O

Novesber i, 1950

CaRaaair tS CiLY

amüsi

152-5475

120:

jiad 39

Fihoo

iito

---

## Page 104

COTFICENTIAL

(sareteri:

LIFEAT

Pesil felde!

CIA RECUEST FOR EALUNTION BY

Dapart-ent o. State.

EVALLATADE AGENET

.. 6)

G:=?a:0

D!55E0.

Донося

Subjest

3 caRabar 1950

_C5-3/L51,671

NUMBER

536-5126

Polessed Arrival 1n.üexico of Polish Travel Officials

deed for concletion aithin tris

in is diciapistanido losicato encices oy od,o ll ilen marned is pririeu in italies, picaso

•Fusi unionis comunisao totally, dui ane a in eder sapropriaie sterior..

cinermise, piesse coder eson oi cheso

FOr PuriTER DUTES On usa of inis 1orm, seo rederse.

SISJECT

OF

THIS REDIRE iS OF:

Kajor

USSERATE

COLLECTOR'S COIMENTS ASO QUESTIONS

IMPORTASCE 1A

-Out

•Is this infossatios os sufficient use or valus

varrert disse iration?

. >

HEFCROATICN

IN TL'S SEPRAY:

CPRIBUTES TO CUO

GNIFICADTIN

TASTIALLY

MEG'IGIOLY

jusiEs.

EVALUATOR'S CONVENTS ALO FOLLOR-UP QUESTIONS

Informaticio of lui retere

in if. cadue di MAT, for it

CER COLLECTION DEEES

PAt tine conting estet

in rept of sperti the

native.

ANST A REQUISE.

..

,7

COMPONIAT

;:.?

ERACLATER

JATE EVA

---

## Page 105

(CENS 50A

TOR:

CIA REQUEST FOR ENPLÜATION BY _

CONFIDENTIAL

LIFEAT

Productin

RECLAGGIFY ACCORDS TO .

A. ADDED FELT)

ORR

Per in ON 55J 60

radicarior, aGracy

I STA10.

Chies.

Country

Sübject

26 Septe ter 1940

Mexico/ Suriet Union

0199tM.

DUMPER

FIRLO

HUNDER

C5-3/-57,021

1A-5259

Lifect.

L deit dia

Mexican üiermiont Purchase of Soviot Radioisotopos

Please conairie iris endiustion dishinGOlays of receipt el privist.

I 21 Octobir 1960

lor consietion milni

ll idea rarkes is stingés in italies, please poplain undoro

"Evaiulior's cornis," arally, rut one l in each appropriate section.

othermise, please cöver asen of these

disects in your cameris. For Purther noits on use of Inis form, see reverse.

COLLECTOR'S CONVENTS AND QUESTIONS

С:ЛАДЕСТ. OF

THIS REPORT IS CT:

Major

DUPERSTA

LITTLE

ove seros

' OHMATION IN TMIS REPEZE:

SIGMIFICANTIT

SUASTANTIALLY

MODERATELY

Doubedul

1109

то отнЕя

тол

1 89 390009.1090

MATIOn

= 011 on

EVALUATOR'S CORDENTS AND POLLON US QUESTIONS

It 10 Impocsible so Ichl 11 the USSa pilcos to Mexico

are in line vith harle pricos or not.

•a 1357 Soviet poice list, rotasaius ic 3 rublos per

AllIcurle, todine 19 U-to 13 rublea per rillicurle

and sold 1s 1 to 3 rubles per millicurlo, depending

upon tho fora of the carricr.

According to tho

report ino averaje arico 1n $0.15 per dillicurio.

quantitles or each isotose hovever, aro not gIven.

Radio Isotope prices have changed in the US unrisodly

over the past feu seara.

For example, the price for

gold 103 nas chanjed. stas 20 cents per sillicurle pelur

to say 1959 to o cents per rillicurle siver May 1959.

Unless sore detalled Informition 10 obtalued, the

Incoration has aals sodorato lalue to us.

asplad.

NO DEFECT

ATFICTIME ABRIULARDE.

LE COLLECTION NEEDS

DIA IMPORTANT

d11.a!

acQuiarmes

I4Р0д8A4.

F..

"HERRE

PRESENT.

arrest a diourer.

come out or

x3942

•A'IDA PORTARDIO

---

## Page 106

CONFIDENTIAL

¡COLiERGOs/EncoRE RECLASSIRY ÁCCORDINO TO DA ADDED CU FROST) E7 JUA IJUY

CiA REQUEST FOR EVALLATION BY.

ORR

05-3/32,051

Date os

1. June 1950

IOALUATIMO AGENCY

FIELO PÍMBLO

188-L9L3

Fifent

Safect der Polic of Soviet Cortercial Office in Mexico

Erasa: Plesso coolete tals valistica mithin 65

days:s! receia? al reques!., nesy toe canaletion miamin this

ice is: ariorily istandard, insicate croices by ox. ip ilen nardes is printed in iralies, olease explain

under.

easiasicros connéras a domaily, qui ose x in each approariale secrion, ornermise, alease cover eacrilor sneso

Escris in yüur GarRents. FOR Puriner döTES on use of fris form, -see reverse.

SUELICY CE THIS REPORT IS OF:"

COLLECTOR'S CORDENTS ANO GUESTIONS

MOSERSE

LOPORTANCE

atiat.do

¡RiCiNATICO LA THIS REPORT:

ANTOLLOCI

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS ANO FOLLOR-UP QUESTIONS.

SALY it

a'isrirs 1?.

toet

1057.428078

1-35:10:

a:né.'

AnO

NipER

COMPONENT

ÜRR/S/TF/SP

Cate totao

5U36

---

## Page 107

CONFIDENTIAL

RECLASSIEY ACCONDING TO DATA

Кіeт..

... 22,16

TET B$ FRONT) 29 JUP

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION 8Y

ENALUIATING AGEETT

218110.

5-3/L39,528

=1e:

side? Country

Mer so/Soret Union

Dur 15 July 1960

Subject DIaNerAO-CAL LeS- Varican disisessian and Sardat ion=slal accliar avar

Macy Orica for triars purchased dr tha Martian Goraraicat

CHALUATOR:

please complere prie deiaiion artni-da days el eroipt of lojbis!.

ares. 0e rusalerion dishin snis

line is priority/standaro, Indiese cacices by

•1.°

¡een mines la peinsed in irallis, please explain unser

•lialuadores cormones. " norsello, Ne ine a in cain ejararialo

asseers in your curments..

section.

ornoraise, alsusa cover each al inose

FOr Porter BUTES on use of lais Pora,

se0 rovorse.

SUBLICE CR

THIS REPORT IS OF:

COLLECTOR'S CONNEMIS ANO QUESTIONS

18908

INSGMMRATION IA THIS REPORTI

1008

Eraser

EVALUATOR'S CRANNIS ANO POLICO-UP OUESTIONS

ARQUIRIMATS

you aronsarment 18 61710.1 A100,

incoreal

8800T101

suastt?.

8. 010

"LITTLE"

DISEAS A ACQUIRIMINT DITT

PARRANT A ArOGIEA

•a prints

RobERT NapEr

ALQUEST RECEIVED

COMPONENT

ORR/s/TF/SP

DATE STAL

яого

1960

MONE

5036

10"3. 39

PORTIOUS

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 108

1(:)

CONFIDENTIALE DON LIENT

ICCLITO/MALUNGO HECLASSIFY ICCORTING TO DATA GED ON PRONTIDE CUS

CIA PEQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

CS-3/×3:,301.

18 A2r11 1960

DIEGO MUMBRA

L: H5C:-1858

Culo? Sontry

Mexicoltore: Urion

Siujee: Sodet dian le sail leportat to Mexican Governont Arengy.

Please carplose snis valustion misnin bO days de roceidi al conuror.

dead for complesion citnia lata

sua is priority/standaro.

10rede epoidei oy on." 1l dica marhod la prinsee ln italles, picase exoldin

tralasi ores comments." nomaliga sul epe a in esch appropriato sactión..

orneraiso, please cover esch 58 8nesi

a:gile in youe cormoris, for purgrae dirIs. on usA ol pAia Porta, seo poverso.

SUB 21C8

CA THIS REPORT, IS O5,

COLLECTOR 'S CORDA NIS ANO QUESTIONS

інтсатаоС &

ascarica

OUB DIBOS

THIS REPRAT

EVALUATOR'S CRACAMIS ANO POLLOD-UR QUESTIONS

a12 1910011859)

NEGUIDANZA?S

s1Gu1asmsa8 19 сireo.1

•"orario':

STIALLI

11689

Calcaro

asi sia 6s

RIPORTINI

(PIRODO PII98)

COMPOMINT

PHONE

4283-

EVAL_ATCR

SATE ARGUEST DICEINEO

DATE SVALUATION FORDANDED

26. May to

---

## Page 109

¡SECRET

Tol lad sos

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE.

N'1267

-sio

321

18 MẠY 1960

ENALUAT.ICN

DATE PROIZAS2S

Tu solaci

To. DisserverTO

CISPOSITION

DATE

THIS RESER

PEST INCOR IME DANÁI 129.

CE9:5T DOCUMENT

CUT CONTROL

•SECTION BY -I5-175806..

18 MAY 1960

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO

• 7, 867

SECRET

187•681

---

## Page 110

CONFIDENTiAL

fili LIFEAT Froci

(COLLECTOR/EVALI OR: RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO DE ADDED O FROST)

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATIOE 8Y_ ORR

Recd i Morch

RA:1A/:D: 096868

C.5= 3/428,2k41

451. c

subsect Savich Neritateren

Schifi

Via DE Diarch 1940

craluarão: Bease coñolere phis valutichmenindays ol recéios ol revuess.

neod por conaletion viinin rnis

sine is priorisyistandard.

-Indicale cholces-dj ai, o di iles cariro ls prinied In Iralles, please exclain under

"Estudiares conseries, a Morally,. sus one a ln esen

asserülse, alesso cover Esch al 11-730

aspitis in your corrents.

for lursher noris on iso of snis Pora, soe rovers.

SÜBLCY DE THIS REPORT 1S OR:

COLLECTOR 'S CORMENTS ANO QUESTIONE

MODERATE

ГАРОЗЧАЖЕ 1

INT ORNATICO

IDi THIS REPORT,

AURIACI.

AHALUATOR'& COMENIS ANO POLICO-UA VUESTIOAS

пАТІОН

apara aRGula, 1108

...,...

.I800

001

81700.

atouter

+6M004108

EVALUATIN

PEPE, FLETCHE", IP.

i5 man. 1960

x3552

DATE

2971101.1960

---

## Page 111

CONFIPSHTIAE

Sei.iig-p

fhe LiFEAT fraa

СОЦЕСТОР/ЕТАЙ : НЕЛАСНИМУ СОСТЕННЙ ТО ВА

AUDET ON FRONT)

CIA REQLEST FOR EYALUATION 8Y_:

Reparizent of. Sesta

00. 80018

5-3/1.29,266

Eles Cosirs- Herico/sousot Unson

018

19 Fobrairy 1250

1362

I!DiBeE.

-1071-47623

cijici

SS20S22IS Si ane BtnistäIiss

•aluiion mieriin 5O 33y3 Ee Preelie do reriseis.

ared pör enäleslon stenle-eali

Ie isen es-oes 1s pelneas ln lintles, Blésse Ceplälo.

tol ore l in asca approspiate ponilooo.

ormóraido, plense comer dsen o!

aprrrs in noul comienes. Yoe durpner dores on uso ól pais pará, spe pirêrzo.

SID ACT (

TIIS BUPCST IS O:

COLLICIRO 8 CORORMÍS ANO OUESTIONS

l0 chla Iforärson of sussiciont uso or valuo

Lo varrant diasonlnation?

Ploaio oosrento

lar,di eo.p.6..

ioada

•s.".

•to don

i0.

nr. P

s (rade01s dnn pD18po.u0

s .

0s 04-0000

,'ir p

a-lºruil.

-k.s

"as lo 0';

0. 00 0.8 0

p:1l...1st

ill iimy d 09ke

laoio

'üion

00.009

• ty

Jasonofid.

ip

l 0 1s

Sp-i

d.ao.la0.

w. la,dl, là

прот

210.09

rppp doi.a.".o1

làriie

gia.n.

&BE0U108-

ENALRAYCA

Mnd d Suiher

2. ')

i é à

=00.10

l: 18:1k

FtGiUdiiORTOnRaROro

M'ao1h

a, 296s8

---

## Page 112

клай

arsent Sile consenes detenting intantes

E fiati le resta 55s

in65r3121,514

НА - 4567

I penuarr,190

LIFERT

picriction.

Miae cy pude10 lapoola da dida ropore dn of dese 06 valuog Pliass 1311cate

tra bypa un eccldrary orfered os anid 8o lesleo of 1

alle. tarifici:

arillulla

lICe Over

LareT 1:0: 291

prirso de antoniollo, enl setal, brica quali lione siule

ball do bardal Dunbora del dradiatio.

Matri torsel triceo conforta lo un rary foria lored

---

## Page 113

14-00000

SECRET.

Sen 1200H 9486, 11 PeD 1960, LAURIGIO, SION CANED'O

osf1o0,

Talo dispaten vos vestion by 11, D 1a reply to HAs 14362, 20 Son 1960 an

abold de sardonad berara LITIAT os LIlHIT ato auleillled for reneral.

DEPOL TAEL

NIXIT/OFE

SECRET

---

## Page 114

1,4-00000

IAtO

FROM

STORMUSIE

014897:5.

DISPATCH

Grier, WiID

Chief, KUDOVE:

Atta:

DIvisiOn D

anier of Station, Maidoo

Projeuts LItiAT and LINIT

SECRET /KA POX

ANa 50

H20X-A-11372

KAPOR-1737

MODULATES ME NO

See

para. 5

120. January 2960

12--

2002 TOMICE TA ONE

MARCO NOR INOLANG:

NO NOILING FOUND

INDI ING CAN A MUDGED

DI QUAINIEDHO DISA ONLY

F7ia-13931,

177:-4-13828

16 Octo 1959

Octo 1959

During the recent ThY viat to this Station of Darld M. FREDLIND(p)

•ó KUNDED, the Interrelationship betton the enversatians recorder

under Froject LINEAT whieh bear on Soviet Cornunloitsun and the

regular provision of the hard copy of Soilot officia diplomatio com-

munications obtained by tue LIbIl activity vore discussed.

Sation Indiental that frequentl; Lipal octained corversatiors winich

referrod dructly to spaciflo messages: by content;. by sucking clari-

fication of garblad or missine groups, by officials to are

havo aligned. tho massage

Ill queston; and on ore or tho occasions the

sassagni(adaittodly sot sonsitlve) toro dictated to secretaries over

the colephona.

examples of the above

conversations vera formardod to leado

The conversations wit FREDLUND

resuired in li suggestion that KUTUBE D. should rogularty-rocatto.tha.

LIFEAT material than 18 relata to soviut messages. Also that KUTUbE D

1n forwardine this type of LIFLAT material to CDi:CH Hould rocord that

the drop coplas of the Soviot messagos are normally fonarea to ODINCH

(source LIiT.IT) and that 1f there 19 any

value to obligi in tying

two soirces together for lurther processing by UDINCil, tha. Station

would crous-reference

the forwarding disuatch nusbers.

Th19-Sfatlon

vuld approciato recelving; at an early date, any Hoadquarters comments.

•Tis Station 18 Mlling to continue to axplolt. LIFLAT interial

SOr LAURICLE purposes should

thila do julzed of value by Headquartors.

At the prosant inc

Willard C. CURTIS 15 personally handlin this

phase of LIFtAT roporting.

KUTUBE D should noto that at the presert alre the LIMIT dairco

la providini, Sortoi, Japanose,

F'oldan urop coplos to tho

The traffio 18 over one-nonth old upon receipt ant 18 In

Stitlin's liands wold fus i feid incris.

no sourco is capable novover

of obtaining trafiio fron all sonces filing officially in lexico City

and the Station can do t1s vithuut 1i creaslia the oporational risk.

Tho tiesdoo City Station would approciato ary coments or puldance

on either t:13

PRaJo Of LIFEAI repOrting Or, OS LIMIT MLICH KUTUBE D

could e1v0.

willard o. CURTIS

ld Jai 1960

Distributiens

3 - HQS(1 - Chief, KUDOVE:

Atter:

Division D

.. ::

,inG: No

---

## Page 115

TO

INdo

ROM

(ACTS)

A.

3.

DISPATCH

Chief, WiD

SECRAT/KAPOK

DISPATEM SIMONI, AND NO

HM44-14393

•APOK-1739

MEMONADE SINE NO

50-8-11

anter of Station, Madco

Soviet

runt ca ti on

22. Jarmery 1960

AP-1 CHECK 2

MARIO ON INORING

NO IDLING REQUIRIO

INDIXiNG CAN DE FUDGED

•Ì QUATTiCO NO DISKORRY

Please route this dispatan via Kitie/D

1071-4-143723

SOUR CEs

LIFEAT )

NH: -A-14383

Under reference & photographs of hard coples of soilat traffia

Novomber 1959 vere forvardod to loadguarters, (SOURCES

LIBMIT

On 2? November 1959 the fallowing conversation took places

"Anatolly Alokseyevicis PAVLENKOV tolla Viadimir KULOKULNIKOV

tiat ho just spoke with lien York.

PAVLENKOV anys that EBOLOY(sh)

PAVLEIKU says that lioscow wanta to know how many

luncheons and

dinnars there were yesterday,

PAVLEUKO saya. ho

sounted 3 luncheons and una dinner.

PAVLENKOV says that a cablo

should to sent sayiny that on the 26c the bankers gave a lunchemi

that MIKOYAY gavo a dimmes for the officiala o

the lovertment.

Anothor thing Hoscow wants to know what word

Mas left out in KOLOKOLNIKOV's cable which was about KULOKOWTIKOV's

account at Poza Rica.

In BELTAN's apeach there

apparently bas

one word left out by the

KOLOKOLIKOV wild look at the

PAVLENKOV M1ll come over snu then

they wiil send the cable.

KOLOKOLMIXO then sugrasts that they

call BEGLOV In lew York and elve him this information. KOLOKOL.IKOV.

ndll do that.

E KOLUKOLIKOV rolla WO(wonan outaide) to rite

• dun what he tella

KOLOKOLNiuV tolls her that yesterlay the hiinistry of

Ipdustry and Trade, Sillis, and

the President of the Banco

EXtoriOr, ZEVADA, gave a luncheon for MIKOYAl at the locol ambasador.

In the evalung A.l. MIlOlAN gavo a diner for ofticials of the

Moscan Goverment.

KOLUKOTNIKOV adds that the spaech that or dele

ROLDAN (shoald be ROLAN instord of BELTRAll) made the works "to

KOLUKOLNIKOV tells her to send this to

Moscon, KOLOKOL:IKOV will call tomorrow and lot wo know tien he

vIl yurn. KOLokoLitiOV has to got ils vloa fron the Amaricar

heelard Clustes

Willard C. WURTIS

20 Jaraur ; 1960

Diatritution:

3 - H03

L P088 I-

5°- 6=64

-sition

paster"

---

## Page 116

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chiei, haD

SECRUT /KAPOK

00: -4-14392

KAPOT-2738

50-9-21

TO

•StO

FROM

1t4.1ut

Chief of Staton, l'ex 00

S0713t Carasicatiors

122

Jar. ua ry: 1960

MATAL CRINOLINO

Call to Attention of XUrUBE/D

A.

B.

HMK4 - 13934

SOURCES LISSAT LINCHICK

1094-1-2/372

The fallorias 18 a qualition of a convoreation hold oa

2 Docenber 19598

siblo off (that lato) on that daco.

FILirUVA promised to try

to got the cable uff.

VOrEVODIN then sald he visiod the

cable sent tos RAZHUEKSPUHT, POSCON, 9019, 9021 and than

dictatads

"Esposition v1ll close on 15th of Decembar. to

deliver tho souvoniro 1s too lato.

VOYEVODIN, "

2. It la requested that this pouch be routed via KUTUBE/D.

Hillard 0

Tilland i Contes:

20 Jan, 1960

Distributions

3 - HAS

....

SECaLr/KAPOR

---

## Page 117

DISPATCH

Ciles, HiD

TO

4a8.

FROM

Gilos pl Station, Maxico

R34-2328

KA POS-1740

50=3-21

2d vanuary 1966

4573

MANED POL FOLING.

NO THOI TRIC LOUIND

Maaso route tila drajore via surievo

Bo

8131-1-31383.

tras.10 (Sairces LIMIT) for lorenins 195% nose irrarded to Pead

quartarD.

i Litiälkid cald to vioned

a antlo corit to

roscen aricani: li U:0 dejarturi d' Aragitas :.

Knol:(50r10t 1100 irals. Mis had kee duilil: iex.co, 18-20

Moridri."

fallowing:

*Today at Dou: local tiLe the :frut itjuly Mindetro of the

Corsicil of lirAscare USSP, A.I. MIT. Ill, end lila EscrEtire

farty Dey

it of tro in 14a1 01 0212005 the Ilali, for

tho FatharLaido

HIKING 8E8 BC0r.

off s1.

1.0 airport by

the Airlitor of foresiz Affair

t50! 11:L9167' 05

coralon Irado, foul JAi.!lASg: l'loter ci

The sorint ArLagandor to Marco AlBo saud.I. "INUiAl 05!,

Volo latülli, aid sorkura i lho valet list aes, a letoro

dio Misht out do 1o KIAUTA" undo a snori BiOnei fr. Milet

ho traited to iresident o: ratioo, birtl lateos, serbora

of the jation doversaril, dia violo lexica: fougulo:us tisa

Marm ricoptlua vile, vas cham lila anl llo ancortune jare la

KOTOEOLIIAN thor dotatad alovar callo.

Trila cablo tas 120

200-aNO Lit i INVAN 8916 1 11 aboRN :18 plane to to imaldeus of

Perden Wankin hin for the receptiin Liat to arcelind In larion.

vestalli: a)

20 daniari 1900

3 - 145

Tract 1.0

•vin

5FX:15/1A.0K

i Dress.in

---

## Page 118

Yedoo: Nexico City

No. of paresi

Repert Made Bi

mome U. URVEART

Distribution:

Зу сОру 1о: З - 198(! ГОГ ІШИБАР)

- Files (1 v/att,

SECRET

Repore No: 1ZM-3332 Local Flle No:

Apöreved Byi

Orally to:

Source Crypton: A. LIRAYAK2

References:

3. LINAT/LMBRICK

Source, Operagional Dats, and Connents:

HM: -1765, 12 SeRe 1950. 2l

SUBJECTS Alicia FUMES j. (Garzun)

Source obtainal the infoniation contained in the attached report fron

his sister, mo is a jourtalist,

ard from a copy of the magazine

subject is emplosed.

He also obtained infonation from an address imestiga-

sion on subject.

Ovirg to tra type or infor-ation sev-loped on RiTERO, sho

18 beiny included in this Station's serles of ICINFOVE gubjects.

Classification

SECRET

N0: 31-30

Si 32/4°

- COPT

---

## Page 119

SECURITY: INFORMATION

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

COUNTrY: Mexico

SUSJEC?:

Alicia RUDO G. (Garzur.)

REPORT NO: HMM-1331

DATE OF INFO: May - August 1956

PLACE ACQUIRED: l'exco City

DATE ACQUIRED: 12 Sept: 1956

DATE OF REPORT: 19 Sept. 1956

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: Source A: Mexican business with

contacts in journalistic circles Be? (paras 1, 3, l and 5)

Source 3: Source vith access to Soviet official circles in Vexico Bloc (pera 2)

he follown iporation has been developed on Alicia ho:Ro A a suspicious

contact of Grigorty NIKIPORLA, soviet Naval Attache, MExiC: -

NR

1. "An investigation of Averida Coyoacan O21-2, the residgee given as that of

subject, shovedit to te occunted by Naria Eugenia Ronersade HaRO.

Her husband

four Colonels."

19 an actreas in a show called "The four 22o993

Ni

•It has been ascertained that on 7 lay 1955 aj

Oliva, a movie produser, was in contact satn juri

an deseribed as Major HARO

APOROY; Sovlet Cultural and

Intellizence officer. fixico

delicates, hcrL.

901-055455

ALicia ROMERO G. hAs teen identified as in charge of the photographic depart

ment of a magazine named i

MIRAZ, publiahed at ivenida Juarez 20-22 in Mexico city:

COMENT: A Copy of tits magazine lg peing retained in Station files.

the director of the magazine is jorgy mio

Caorera, husband of Varia Susenta

Romero de FARO (noted above) and

he resides at Aver.ida Coyoacan 624-2. He pays

750 pesos per month rent.

ALicia PORO d. 1s the siste

n-law of Jorge into Cabrera. She is the

daughter o? Faria de la Luz(widon) de FrERU. Alicia ROMERO reportedly is the

mistress of various politicians.

She clains her home to be at Av. Coyoacan 624-2.

Alicia RUM RO is reported to te pra-Coriunist and to be a member of the rhI. She

is to be supported by that party in the forthcoming elections for the post öf

Federal Deputy.

COMMENT: Her connections with polltics and politicians explain some of the

report noted in the reference.

SECURITY INFOSRATION

FORM NO:

APP 1955 31-58 PREVIOUS CONTICAS MAN DE USEO.

50-632:4

1201

STURIY PAPERCY, 201-82435 CITUSSR SOVAT ELUTIRAL AND INTERE

OFFICER. A MEXICO A SCERTAINZO THAT ON TMAY 56 SUBS WAS IN

CONTACT WITH HAJOR HARO CLIVA, AMINE PREDICER: DEI SEPT. 1156

---

