# 104-10063-10179

## Page 1

1104-10063-10179

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NO FOREIGN DISSEL/NO DISSIM ABROAD®

B- 3786

6 MAR 1973

SUBJECT: Travel from Algiers

1. A sensitive and reliable source reported

on 26 February 1973 that the travel documents

(Titres de Voyage) requested from the Algerian

Government by William HOLDER (Subject of your New

York Field Office File 164-694) are intended for

HOLDER himself, Melvin MCNAIR (Bureau File Number

157-26560), Jean MCNAIR (Bureau File Number 157-

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Reproduce

BROWN (Bureau File Number 157-26564), Jean

Catherine KERKOW (Subject of your New York Field

Office File 164-694), and Eldridge CLEAVER.

2.

Source speculates that CLEAVER's name was

included with the others desiring travel documents

in order to convince certain Algerian authorities

that CLEAVER, who departed in early Februaty 1973,

was still in Algiers.

Although Source does not

know when the documents will be issued, he believes

that the Government will do so.

Both Melvin MCNAIR and George BROWN were

arrested by the Algerian police on separate charges

of possession of handguns. BROWN was found to be

carrying

a loaded revolver,

and MCNAIR had given

an Algerian youth two pistols for safekeeping.

One of the pistols was of Chinese manufacture.

Neither BROWN nor MCNAIR were kept under arrest for

* To ke that anot for

any length of time.

4.

Source has been unable to provide any

additional information regarding the destination

of above mentioned individuals.

We are checking

-

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS LIVOLVED

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

OF.E. D. 11652, EXEMPTIEN BATECONY:

§ FE(1), CD, (3) er (4) (tirele ens or more)

AUIUSATICALLY ESCLASSIFIED ON

Date

_Impossible to Determine

(unlass impeccible, insert date er sient)

NO, FOREIGN DESSOZ:/K0 DISSON ABROAD

SECRET:

7131

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD®

further abroad and will provide your Bureau with

any additional pertinent information obtained.

The above infornation is being made available

to

your Bureau in response to your request for infor-

mation on the activities of the CLEAVER Faction

located in foreign countries as transmitted in

your teletype 004, dated 17 March 1971, Subject:

Rlack Panther Party-CLEAVER Faction, Racial Matters.

5.

The information in this report is being

provided to your Bureau with the understanding

that it will receive no further dissemination,

other than to your appropriate field offices,

without the prior approval of this office; and

that any reference to it in internal Bureau

documents will state only that it was obtained

from a confidential source, with no mention of

the office originating this report.

Please transmit reply via CACTUS channel

Originated by: CI/SO: Mullen: jb: 6 Mar 73

Based on: Algiers 1368, 2 Mar 73

Source: 02 GADUEL/1

Distribution:

Original - FBI (via CI courier)

11 - CI/SO B-Memo Chrono

1 - PROD Algiers

1

- PROD GIDUELOZ

1

- BPP/Algiers

1

- Eldridge CLEAVER

- PG Chrono

2

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

SECRET

---

