# 104-10187-10113

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10187-10113

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

3 :.

CLASSIFIES MISSIGE

•SECRET

PERSON MAIT. MATIFICO

: REPRODUCTION PAGNISITIO

FROM

SAN TILIATE

WH8

Dog KH/568 01

CIVES CROC EL COS CARESSE

SECRET' 3022102

DIP. CITE SALV 5312

CUBA

SILENN REjECTOR

30SSR64N84511

REFS A. SALU 53.25 (IN83009) *

B. DIR 53380

CIA TOFFICER

CUBINPETECTOR

PALTON

WEENE AND

ONCE EACH ALONE AND ONCE TOGETHER SAW

DALTON

MORNING 30 SEPTENSER.

SANE. POSITION AS PARA 2 REF A.

#DENIED XNOWING

SE DESPITE CASE OFFICER PELATIONSHIP, REFUSED DISCUSS

IN DEFECTOR

ANYTHING ABOUT CUSAN INTEL, AND SEGGED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START

LIFE ANE!.

?." OBTAINING TRUTH FROM

DALTON

MAGES FILi BE TINE CONSUMING. HE FULLY

AL'ARE PROOFS AGAINST MIM BUT PROSAELY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE

RELEASE AND PROSASLY FEARS ADMISSION OF MIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP

KIM. SALV COVI MUST CONVINCE HIM RE WRONG ON SOTH COUNTS.. HE OF

DUBIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO AÇOUT PAST ÁCTIVITIES

"OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEFEST AS AGENT IF HE

CAN' ZE TARCETTED AGAINST CUSAN INTEL OR POES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE

CUBAN DEFECTOR

DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGINST GENITARGETS. IF HE SHOULD

P. DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONNENT WOLLO COVER RECRUITNENT AND WOULD TEND TO

-"HANCE HIS VALUE, PROFABLY WOULD BE NOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SALV

I'CLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

3. AS MATTERS FAND MOST IMPORTANT. TO FROTECT &

CURIN POLEO OF MOZAT DECHISE.

THIS OP COULd SE AFFECTED ALUSOSELY

QUAN DE ECTOR

SPHERD OF NE:S ABOUT MONG EFFORTS ON SOMALE OF MAN

TO EFFECT

RECRUITMENTS. BECAUSE OF VALUE OF SANTA FRETSA FOR PRESENT NOT

USAN vard

TO PROCEED AGAINST OTHERS UHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING. ARTES

IS POCDUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTÉRVAL SIN CAN PROCEED WITH

RECPUITMENT EFFORT AGAINST OTHERSCEITHER UNILATEPALLY OR MITH LIAISON 24

DEPENDING O: DEVELOPMENTS..

A. PROCESDING WITH ARREST OF GUERRILLEROS TRAINED IN CUEA PROZABLY

VOULO BE DENSFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT AITRIPUTED TO MEN DE CHOR

', SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DOUBLES

AND TARGETTED ACAINST GUERRILLA @CUPS OR PCES.

5. APPRECIATE PEF B TO WHICH VILL REPLY ATE A SOLESING TIRTES

PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS. WITH,

ANAND POSSIBLY PRESIDENT. 24

SECRET.

SECRET

z/pV

---

