# 104-10069-10177

## Page 1

1104-10069-10171

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNITED STATES GOV

• Memorandum

ATE

Director., Domestic Cott

OSS (LGrant)

row. :.. Chief, Mam Rield orfice

REF

Cordon Cooper and Associat

• DO1(S) 322/26865-72

copex, Prestant,

22 duee

Ope

Tucka Airport,

this noting was the

ing Londor Gooper auc

tre ruferenced oba(3) on

in the organisetion

Cuoper and one of his: pa

stock, Ranipulatat

Tatie jia and ther

ao natociste.

disassociate Hi

to singly tin

Jonsultants Ca

or the Republic

a Miani iffice vil

In addition

néster oi the Board

chry trand Cain

1 Thu

tellini

-arrivities center.

restara throughout thei

apontes tithin the

Fusingsenen opera

Trainenre of

tips cueside

Enoper destres

at and to

abls be sulesed

wither in Nevad

ain the cane aud

an us citi

basiness

He claims

• 00990512

conple thly

for

i his astrunaut dave to introduce Gul to indira

brumbent in comries thuraticatt the noò.

8677

s: Someds

• 4. Fire Saine Big $PS

25ca

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NIM-096-72

4. Cooper has recently

CHI casinos. As an gaide

tnes on individuals in.

and outgo and general

5.:

The Haition al

no connection

pissuing. it pax

the Governcent of

atay and

If the deal

In Haitt with one No

the formir presiden

extrecaly closc

6. 1 Coope

with she Agenes

thạt hà fel

feel at complete

matter de interest to oiA.

morld who are knan to be

ver spending habits, incor

such

Bio

ta t6 bat

23953

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Eoxe 680a

06772

23953

---

