# 104-10079-10281

## Page 1

1104-10079-10281

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONPIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

-ASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

IP/CFS

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

HM788

HOLMES RUSSELL

CI/ EXO

3.

2 D 4921

4.

5.

6.

т.

1 B 4003

DATE

RECEIVED

EXTENSION

6740

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Our records indicate that the

attached document is classified

into a file currently charged to

you/your office.

Permanent

Temporary

Please file this document in the

201 X/ 'Subject Li

Project L

file since it may

be of immediate value. Destroy this

coversheet after material is filed.

If the file is no longer held by

your office, please indicate its

present location so we may correct

the charge.

If you do not know the location

of the file, please return this

coversheet together with the

attached material and fill in the

following:

Check if unable to locate L

Suggest possible location:

Signature:

Office designation:

9.

10.

11:

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

Tube DT-6

IP/CFS

610 USE PREOUS

EDITIONS

0P. 136

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

12027

CL BY: 062147

UNCLASSIFIED

1993.07.19.14:50:37: 460280

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

ODD

• SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

col

ACT

TOO

26-

MHO

PAGE

07

OMF O

CLARATAICATIOM

SECRET

MUNGROSH

INDICATON

STAFF

CONP: AFg

INFO: FILE

0309352

DIRECTOR

MAN EURE CY

PS/EG3 OPSITNE

HO INDEH

METURN TO

937078

DISSEM BY, 45

FER

TO: BRUSSELS INFO PRETORIA, DAR ES

SALAAM. Y

WNINTEL SESCYTHE TOPHONE Y

REFS: A. OBBA-35455 DATED 19 AUGUST 1A76 (BEING POUCHED PRETORIA)

B. DIRECTOR 93G2J6Y

1. HOS READ WITH INTEREST REF A REPORT BY TOPHONE/1 ON HIS

CONTACTS WITH SOUTH AFRICAN ANC AND PAC REPRESENTATIVES IN DAR ES

SALAAM... IN CONNECTION WITH REF B PROGRAM, HQS WOULD APPRECIATE

TOPHONE/1 MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH SUBJECTS REF A SPIK. LEBALLOS,

DAVID. SIBEKO AND VUZ MAKE OF PAC AND MZIMKULU AMBROSE MAKIWANE OF

ANCI BY CORRESPONDENCE, TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ON PLANS AND ACTIVI-

TIES OF THEIR RESPECTIVE ORGANIZATIONS, AND LEADS AND INTRODUCTION

TO EUROPEAN BASED REPRESENTATIVES.

2• HOS WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE TOPHONE/1 EXPLOITING ANY EXISTING

CONTACTS OR ACCESS TO EUROPEAN BASED REPS OF ANCO PAC, SASM OR SASO

WITH VIEW TOWARD OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE AND ASSESSHENT DATA ON

PERSONALITIES FOR POSSIBLE RECRUITMENT. Y

3. FILE: 201-306052; 72-300-001: 72-300-004.

C/AF/ES/S

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

CLASBIPICATION

26 OCTOBER 1976

L. SANDS:RG

AF/ES/S

ARLEADINO OFFICER

E2. IMPDET-N

oups

RECORD ORY

- DELAF

: COOOINATINO OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

0:3 NOV.76

201-306052

Qua Pis

C/AF

E 2

CL

BM:

IMPDET

12027

SECRET

1993.07.19.14:50:37:460280

---

