# 104-10180-10138

## Page 1

104-10180-10138

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTINE AND A CORD SHEET

4200 diain. BIde.

TO

ROOM

AC/TSD/TA

CaTE

CONMENTS

PRORITY

2.

3.

T3D/SRS

4.

s.

WH/4/FI

7.

8.

RI/DP

1308

9.

T5D/SR3

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17..

1B.

COUROINATING

OFFICERS

MAME

BY FRON

OFFICE

Ralph Sechaser

WH/4/5T

Coordinated by phone

83 detest

RECORD COPY

ENCLOSURE

DATE MICAUFILMEO

FONM

17nt

ABSTRATI L

INDEX

PRIORITY

AUTHENTATING OFFICER

NAME

TITLE

MALCOLEY C. REID

C/TSD/SAB

RELEASING OFFAER

TITLE

#C/TSD/TA

FILE NUMBER

2024274049)

OCCUMENT GATE

INT -3523

---

## Page 2

14-00000

R.

=ED

FRON

WALLET :

: Cinct of statlon, 'tavara

ліна бін.

302(271040) 88

SITE

23 JUN 191:

CHICS, MURIOT

AQUATIC/OperatIonal

Sti supplier for Meal

NO IDENTS MEQUIRED

100N.0.011 ME JES 9

LY CUALI:D12 01S:0:1T

LICACBCITI

: INVA - 1799, 17 JURe 195U

do the si cupplica and instructions recueu to estrolich tue-iny sw

correspondence with minel are trensuluted hervich lie rcalize that gone o!

the instruction forts aul supplies which are belli transuitled are duplicates

of those sent to the stutton in support of other oberutions. lovever, li ordcr

to sacilitate the handling of cach operation. the supplies

for each an

furalahed as a complete unit.

This will preclude the need for berzoulne fron

one elsent a supplies to outfit another.

ANERE) will urite to the Cuse Dificer, using carbon syster /39337.

Two unused sheets of carbon f33337 should be linued to the ovent for tris

Fs should be told to store then separately to avoid accliental loss

of his writing syatera.

His carbon syaten lo developed by means of tablet

$30607. A supply of the developer material, in quantities sufficient for

training purposes, eccompenies this dispatch.

3. According to the Ull opcrational plan, shi messages written by will

k11l be pulled to accamountion addresoes in various latin Amrican courtiles.

In accordance with that,

nutor vill provtee the approprinteüll Field Stationi) 26

sith the materials secessary for developing the operational ucssages.

65833 on be door ere a a to recent by none one 99

ecarmended thut the agest be told to hide his developer materials in e saf

nis should not present much af n problen venuse the pille are so 09

unall. He do sot generally recourend tilt pills be cancurlaged as sedicines. 94

Sien in cases where the SW inureutent does have a bona fide mediciral usuge,

the corcentretion represented by the Sw pill would woually be in excess of thelf

normal dosrec, pal thus there could be a denger of heving an untiding person

use them by accident alf the Cuse Officer feels that for operational reason

It 13 desirable to cosoutlace cheu to redicines, they shoula only be sept in e

sottle wilen 1s clearly nurked fOR DELOAL US: O:ILY, 99

Recordine to tie operationul plau, tie Jare to cEcht J: acEsuzES Will

se prepared for the dea division uy kulot et leudquarters.

Tre Area Divié:00

w11l pouch the ui pesuages (a

"Ulens" saecio of stat oners)fg the sorror-iate

Fseld station for capilention o: the euver test neijualline.

5. ile Antical Case O'e'cer sixuld Pantllorize hinself with lite

companying supples und instructions before eny atterpt 13 nade to trela ali

Issue supplles to the ageri.

ixperlence has shous that 1t 1s curisable to plen

¿or two or three chort (2 hour) ¿geut trilaln; sessions scheduled over e perind

of days, rather ten to atterpt io cris the truluing lito aue lose session.

?. Spectal atrentiou should be blizu to plundes the rover correronience.

It 13 usully reconomird tiei the oguni use false wise ad Iritura eddreas oil

disel? corpletely

Asa su menagen to the setso, therey a initabla regures ase the

mos his si reporto once, they are dis the

'ortempanilence be ficticial, un entails i certain count ai saill on the per

•s AMalIn fabricat!a; apparencly (mavent correspondence? 4lie have rous

nat the use of, 4 false postal deutly) trequently provides the escut ult

considerable paycholasical recouurasce durinz the course. or the operatioo.

3. The cover!

82.37

185t

PRE-INDI

Latrich.

ANJ8129

ETHICH ARN DESOLATE

CLASMITCANIEN

RET

PRIORITY

/10: 3

---

## Page 3

107

SECRET

1579*

- 3523

The cover cortespordance dunù til sO trij

apreso to be differint ficu

se dull of sull chlimrily foul la the crail biiro useá. It aheria coiinio

¿ 1äurant1c1 bich cold be vicurd to susricious in coy Inj.

The exterail

aprais of the coresponoure mat de inauert in all aspocto li she di 18 to

be clorted lo provide iny level or sccurity.

enilney on the crix älth shich fa ls used.

Flease stress the nued for cire-

Pal siting tochniques in your ajent trninino sessiors.

The follouire, supples aid tastruciloni are; transtitted in support oi

Stantari Fore (11059-611) chich desoribes In detail sor 10

one fearban hect 220r0%) indeled (OSO"STRATION CARBON)is to be

used to demonstrate the priaciples g& (carion)ritice. The developent

Iricess sor thin system can be carried out in the agent's presence.

the denoustrat top feurba) writing.

12 developer (20609) shich v1ll develop

See to /12603) derbie the develorant or tina

ane to be issued to the agent.

1s to bo used in traint and to been hoed not be alton 144

urce caroon sheets 1'39337

The one labeled PRACTICE CARBON

vitoess the development of this system, dar should he be shown the J49

Dessage after development.

Instruction Form Il-36037) specific instructions for the

dereloprent of carbon aystem 139337, 99

Glenty pills 130607, to be used to deveion practice and real

ressages written aüh carton / 39337999

which he should use to practice his development technique.

1. (venty-fIva pills /53838)unich MERE vill uselto develon the

Two or three lo? these pills) should be wied

sa crainingga (venty or the remaining pilla should be losued to the

99

M 3. Instruction Form 1'1-25053) instructiors for the use of

developer #56839.)

¿= One copy of the "Station l'aintenance of Sti Supplies Porm.

iteas gencrally useful for si processing.

¿ seeklans from such defeatan, arab streks, end blotterad)

1o You vill note thet iso different sinds of (carion sheets)i

sumitted with the supplies.

be used la the practice session only. It ahould be used to desanstrate carvon M

This system can be duveloped in the agent 's

kiter the sent las mstered the use of the DETOlSiRiTIOn ciRBoNape should be

Biven ca apportually to urite with the (PRACTICE. CARSOSAAIL 1s Very Importent

Cat the case Officer lave the cronce to critique the egent's sh' uritias

techaique with the nctual systen which the agent will use. Fovever, the agent

should pos/

-i don.

1023 - 3533

and i

---

## Page 4

99

siu"3, not be alloved to vitrieso the develorent

of lils operatio::

The (develope.

'the Case Difleer

che lugent's lechique 18 poor, he should, yor protagrapas of tic

ressivics to polit out to the quent those ahras there leproveneni

or he should just discuss 1t verbally.

CARE)N, and the reat of the cupplies.

nescinges and voriing naterina should be erraied as classified.

13. Please do not hesitate to requeat edditiónni help iron 1

seeded.

enrica 99

*• that the

•==e

Lied,

i: 00

JAn. I Promise

SCANTA F. MANESTY:

Enclosures: (1 Box & 1 Ear)

1.

Supplies & Lostructions

2. Supplles

22 Jilse 1960

Distiibution:

3 - COS, Havana, w/coclo 0/8

1

RI, w/o encle

- HSD / SR3, 1/0 encls

Wi/k/FI, v/o cucla

TSD/iNDIaneatrick) (2922) iske

°3

.

id lusy

Er.

• 3523

ВТІ РЕТУОЗЯ КРАСТОЯ

UMBERS POSTI

BECRET

Doorres

3 05 3

9//2U

---

