# 104-10215-10004

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10215-10004

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992.

=

COOTET

25 June 1963

KOHORANDIM FOR: Central Covor Stall

ATTERTION

* Charito Dentali

SUBJECT

• ROBE CROZIER

REFERENCE

SAS Manorendia Dated 1, May 1963

1. Referenced mesorandus requestod the Subjoct ba prorided with

alistery corer uhile assignod in the Roadquarters area for operational

and credl: purposas in the perforeance of his dutios with gas.

It 18

understood that your affico vas reluctant to issue the Subject tha

noceasary milltary covor bocausa ba was physically locatod in a DODB

offico which was under comercial corar.

2. As Indicated verbally on 21 June 1963, SiS will sore the

subjoct out of the DODS area on 26 June.

SAS has also requested sult

able offico or apartuant space through the offica of Logistica fron

which the subject vill operato in the future.

Until this property is

ecquired, the Subject vill perfora bia duties Iron his hots. Conse-

quently, it la requesiad that livediate attention ba given to providing

tbs subject with the neceasary allitary cover. Refer ary questions to

Q. A. LADNER, JT., SiS/Security, ext. 5909.

Dessond Pitsferald

ChIos, SAs

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - SAS/Security

SAS/Security:GAladner:ftk - 25 June 1963

JEGRET

Excite"

6::!

• 2428:

*: 2:1

201-168881

---

## Page 2

4.00000 .

19 June 1963

MEMORANDU FOR: CHal Central Cover Sta Busiding

SUBJECT

: Request for Domestic Cover

Mr. Ross Lester Crozier

REFERENCE

: Form 1322, forwarded to your Office,

14 May 1963

It is requested that this Office be advised a

o the disposition of our request dated 14 Hay 1963 fo

coverding Mr. Ross Lester Crozier appropriate Domestic

2. Since security requirements prohibit Mr. Crozier

3.

Your prompt attention to this matter would be

appreicated.

Desnond FitzGerald

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

CC: DODS

DOP/SAS/PERSONGEL/J.ARBBERT HOESERIKCE (19 JKRG3)

Distribution:

orig

eliAsdressee

1- DOPS

1- 5AS/ Persornel

SECTET

i*=-

201-168881

---

## Page 3

14-00000

12g*7

SECRET

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE

SI'ENIT THIS TORM IN TRIPLICATE, ESCLOSLO IN SEALED ES TELOPE

TO

Contral Corar BRAIl

THROUGH:

SUBJECT: MT: ROSS fASTPX., CONIOR

ENTRY

Inclusion of subject on the

Dogestio Cover List is requested

for the reason noted below.

notified that cover has been es-

tablished, subject will be specir-

ically autborized and instructed to

conceal his Agency affillation.

14 над 1883

CHANGE

Subject is currently Included on

tie Dotestic Cover List.

For the

reasos noted below, it 1s requested

thet

the opoy be renoved roa

the following change ke made:

REASOM

RequeEt sabject bo providod MIlIIRTY COTer (ATHY) MaILO RBsIgRed LA

HoRdguArtero ArOs IO7 OperAtIONal sad CrOdlE purpOSOS la parIOsaanco

O1 LA CUTIDO DIES SAB.

Hora: Subject tao lOsHarly Inder consero Lal COres al JATAVl p$ 105

tO JANUarY I8Es.

COVER (Complere ouly for neo entries)

PE COVI

• ом

TTFE SUCCESTED

(Specify aberßer

official or son.

alficial)

" no borea

US OFICATA COVER

SUCCESTED

APPROVED BY CENTRAL COVER DIVISION

SIGNATURE

DATE

REQUESTING OFFICIAL

SIGMATURE

ORYILLS C. DAYEON

201-168851

4-5° 1322 ..!

SECRET

{301

8.36251

---

## Page 4

JANE: 01 RIER. Ross

STATION

Hes.

AND DUTIES:

PRESENT GRADE: 30-12

PROPOSED GRADE: ih

CIA TRAINING:

SECRET

(Then pilled In)

DO/P PERSONKEL DATA SHEET

132:

DOB: 29 June 1092

PRIMARI CAREER

DD/P UNIT:

LESIGHATIO:!:

CARDS? 1322

PRESENT T/O SLOT

HUMBER AND GRADE:

PROPOGED T/O SLOT HA

NUMBER AND GRADE: NA

Wife: Costa Ricar calizen, D03: 15 ÷4r 1913

son: 102: d sent 19ud -ü.S. Citizer

DAU : TOB: 24 Jure 1951 - U.5. citizen

EDUCATION:

LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY:

spanish (Fluent - writing/reading/speaking)

ASSESSED:

DATE:

TYPE OF POSITION:

RESULTS:

EXPRRIENCE PRIOR TO CIA (excluding SU-OSS):

ToS. Army and UaS. Air Force,

Leading nan labor, $12.36

(Jan. 1946- April 1246).

SUMMARY OF CIA-SSU-OSS ASSIGNMENTS INCLUDING PREVIOUS GRADES AND DATES:

Contract and career agert since dune 1947 - Intelligerce assignments in Costa Rica,

iyaterala, and subas foreim Irrelligence with sore "sycholog cal variare anc

Paramilitarya Fl nission with stro's forces in Sier inestra (daril 59).

Herden city Jan 59 to May 1960; assigned to iF 4 ?1-PROP iron iune 60 to oct 61;

Issigned POS AnaTE Uet !1 to dan 1953. (Case Ufficer on student project involving

propaganda and area intelligence collection & nethor% operation; co on press

placenent and press collection project).

RECOSMENDED BY:

CONCURRENCES:

RECOMMENDATION

OF CAREER SERVICE BOARD:

токм но.

1 MAN SI

, 965

use

SECRET

261-168851

(01

і.t.e.

---

## Page 5

1

$

TRÄVEL ORLER

IDY

POS

INVITATIONNI

7-1000

¡OTTICE TRAVEL SAULA NO.

5645-473-63

-

SAVE DAL CAST0.

15 . 5088

Craslas

OrTICIAL STATiON

OFTICE PHONE

GRADE

SieBblDECOD,

6576

Career A.88E

YOU ARE AUTHORIRED TO TRAVEL AND MICUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH HEGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL

OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL

CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Promi Harbington, D. C. 80 ITC lot approxinately three (3) daya 808 and recurs.

49068

alt courtes/ce

PUXP038: Operactuasl oratecta

!

TRAVEL DURATION

BEGIN C/S

END

19 Mar 63

22 Mar 63

DOMESTIC

Is

16.00

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

_PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

FOREIGN

| OTHER (See belora)

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE

ENTS PE

JOT TO EXCEED

CHITS PEA MI

COST BY COM-

15 MONTAGDOLS

MON CARRIER

TO COVT.

УОКИ

8-80

540

МРа, 8.02

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

МАМІ

( олукотанти печатюльние

ESTIMATEO COST OF TRAVEL

ACCOMPANY TRAVELEA

FOLLOW WITHIM a MONTMA

ADVANCE RETURN

COORDINATION

BIGNATURE

REVIOUS

KDITIONS.

PROCURE TRANBPORTATION BY

TRANSPORTATION AROUKET

CARM OR OTHER

SPORTION OF EFFEC

THORIZATI

BMPUENT | T HONKERORARY

SHIPMENT POA AUTMORILEI

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTMORIZED

ССОНРАЧІК

IS. AND NOO

UMACCOMPAMIO

LO%. AND MODE

$200.00

I CLATITY TUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

DBLIGATION REVERENCE NO.

473-63

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

3132-1000-1000

DATE

I BIGMATURE OF A A POFFICER

ADVANCE OT TUNDA REQUESTED

YES§100. OfACCOUMTIMa DUX DATE

но

BDQUESTING OFTICIAL

TYPIO MAME AND TITLE

COMPONIAT

VINCENT S, BATHAY, Chlaf

SAS/Support

DATE

AUTHONIZINO OFFICIAL

TIPLO MAME AND TITLE

COMFOMENT

DESAND XITZGURALA, CHIOE

SIGMATURE

DATE

C

branch '63

201-168881

1x0.00)

d:..

---

## Page 6

14.00000 ÷

•ces terror soone necess deeri

r........

r.t.....0:..

33 carch 1563

KELOLLYDIS PER:

• #5t»

SLEJITT

C510!, 2129069 D1918109

: Calef, Castract POTBONDS) D1Y1E1O3

:

Briantennent of Carrer dgeat -

This de to actice you that Carcer geat larala:.

Do rearilesed los trna dapart to sag teablector,

2. E. area on 21 January 1903.

Caler,

DDP/SAS/PersODIel/John H. Hastin/kct (13 Yar 63)

Distribution:

Addressee

C/CPD

- SAS/PerS

201-168881

---

