# 104-10165-10169

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10165-10169

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10319: Dres One _

Gassier to pies as..

DESTROY I SIG.

IMILAYE

AITION

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

TOTAL COPIL

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT

DUTIFIED

MR. NAPoLi

O RID COPY

201.

REPREOUCTION PROMIBITED

TIME

1aтo

5026 D07, D9la3 ClorsE (sBJCs3 as 40/19

3020065104

?:!

SECRET T3,131262

16-26

IMMEDIATE SCOM INFO IRMEDIATE DIR(SNDR)CITE

"AY.

DYVOUR PERUMEN

31 nüc lest

34:3

al-io

LO PLANE PROCUREMENT PROELEM DIFFICULT DUEY

SUT HAVE STARTED TRY MORK OUT SOLUTION, TRYING ARRANGE CHARTER

IN AMICORE-2) NAME DC-3 TYPE AIRCRAFT. WAVE AIR OFFICER USING

CLEARED CONTACT WITH KUBARK PROPRIETARY AS FRONT I TRYING

ARRANGE CHAPTER WITH OTHER SER SERVICE SUCH AS MACEY AIRLINES.

CLEARED CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER THAT AMCORE-2 HEAD OF

GROUP TRAVELLING NEYSMEN STRANDED SDOM THRU PLANE FAILURE, ADD

ABCORE-2 KNOWN TO HIM AS RELIABLE PERSON AND HE WILLING VOUCH

FOR AMCORE-2 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND IF NECESSARY TO

ADVANCE CHARTER PRICE. CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER AMCORE-2

KILL ARRANGE NECESSARY LANDING, REFUELLING CLEARANCES AT SDOM

COMMERCIAL AIRPORI.

2. IF SUCCESSFUL IN ARRANGING CHARTER, MAY WISH FOR

COVER REASONS THAT AMCORE-2 SEND CABLE (PHONE NOT NECESSARY AND

BIGHT CONFUSE SITUATION TO SUPPLIER CONFIRMING REGUEST FOR

CHARTER FLIGHT. WILL ADVISE LATER RE DETAILS.

308

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduca

4/pJ

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i danied

(N 42307 82-2

3. IN ORDER TRY ADD COVER AT SDOM END SUGGEST ANCORE-2

INSICATE TO HIS PARTY THAT IMBERT PROVIDING HIM WITH FUNDS 16-10

TO CHARTER REPLACEMEIT PLANS TO SET GROUP BECK TO MISTI. [SDOM

CALY THE PASS FUNDS TO AMCORS -2. POSSIBLYLEDOM COULD GET IMESPI

TO BACKSTO? STORY HE GAVE SONEY TO AMCORE-2.

SECRET

CFS 5413 6745 AMCORE-2 IC-3 (KUPARK MACKEY AIRLINES - 2 THRU

-2-2-2-2 NOT NECESSARY RE -2 IMSERT MISM! -2 IMPERT -2

* PRIVATE AIRCRAFT

SHOULD BE

OBTAINED

FOR TRIP.

recita:

3/08

---

