# 104-10072-10315

## Page 1

1/408

1104-10072-10315

DISPATCH

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

SBCRETRYBAT

NED.

FEM

Chief, HOLiNE

chief of Station, London; Chief, WOMUSE;

chief, BUs Division

ChiaS, ICPIPIT/LOndon

KHALPHA/ YAPROBE/RODIGAST

ME. ON REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference: OSPA 984, dated 18 March 1968

4:28

MARKED FOR INDEXiNG

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

I. The purpose of this dispatch is to raise what ve believe

CELES RE-ERENCE TO

is desirable to share it with Headquarters now in order that its

early consideration may be facilitated.

2. As you are aware, RODIGAST has developed excellent contacts

with individaals active in the Paris SNCC group. Identity A, who

is one of these, has recently becone Increasingly active in the

affairs of the SNCC group (which largely centers around several

young girls recently arxived from the US) and has come to play a

rather important sole since she brings to it a sophistication and

Identity A would not normally have become active in the SNCC group.

She is older and holds "noderate" viens of the sort beld by the

late De, Martin Inther King- However, ste recently took a rather

militant position at a public discursion of civil rights (primarily

to avoid confrontation with and critician by the SNCC girls) after

whic soe was admiringly besieged by the girls who were anzious to

have her assistance in preparation of speeches, etc. In this

regard please see Reference. Partly because she has the tine and

partly because she was flattered, Identity A accepted and has grown

daily sore involved in SNCC matters. At the moment she is devoting

virtually full tine to this.

Alite

Attacarent: u/3/c (2)

1- Identity sheet

2-Biographical data

Distribution:

sente to Paris

1 - C/011013 w/atts 18 Sp

uncin#: 078642736

68

1 gC/3UR w/atts

- C/HOMUSE #/att s

I - Cos/London s/atts

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

/Continued.../

DEBA -10%

-9

7533

colleges?

DATE

OERA-1058

CLASSIFICATION

SECREIRYBAT

11A2111 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

105-6-149/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FORM

1491

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRETRYBAT

OEFA- 1058

3- RODIGAST reports that Identity A is charming, highly female.

definitely intelligent and something of an "actress" in that she is

often willing to tell people what they want to hear, indeed, this is

what she dia at the public discussion mentioned above... At the same

time she is committed to the civil rights novenent.

You will note

from the blographical data which we are forwarding under separate

cover, that she has worked in civil rights activities before and at

one point assisted in the organtzation of a narch led by Dr. King.

RODIGAST, who is a personal friend of the fanily (she is divorced

and has a teenaged girl) in addition to being the representative of

her publisher, has gotten to know her very well over the past years.

He reports that she la basically a loyal, moderate and anti-Communist

person who comes from a middle class family in Detroit where her

pareats vere active in the anti-Comunist activities of the united

Anto Workers... at one paint RODIGAST had proposed her for possible

use since abe might be able to gain access to Nortà Vietnam. This

was rejected, however, because she was thought to be too moderate,

respectable and pro-american to be of interest to the North Vietnamese.

4. All this han been altered by her recent involvement in the

SUCC activities, and lt is now poDIAst's opinion that she offers

what way be a unique opportunity to obtaia the collaboration of

soreone in a position to report on the attempts by Commist, Castro

ist, and Fadical forces to Influence and use the civil rights move-

nant-: Through her involverent in SNCC she has developed contacts

with vacious groups which are flirting with SuCC such as the Franch

Vietnan Battonal Cormittee, Vietnanese student groups and the Che

cuevata circle all targats of HOPIR™.

a nonet no the not glamore are the see.

a leading public representative of SHCC.. Another candidate for a

leading rot la sce following the departure of Identity 3 is the

Marxist orinted Identity C-although she is somewhat shy and prefers

to operate behiad the scene. Tous we can envision a situation whers

Identity A night becone most influential, If only by default.

? RODIGAST Is convinced that Identity A vould be willing t

ollaborate with her governnent but stresses that the approach t

her would require great still and mat ba done by an individual with

whos she coald feel lapport. He reiterates that she is sincerely

anti-Comunist, and that she does not share the beliefs of the

militant black racists, although she certainly is a convinced ad-

vocate of the civil lights struggle. FODICAST suggests that any

approach to her must stress respect for her comitment to the civil

rights soyement. mis approach should emphasize that Comnist

exploitation of the novement is in the interest of neither the move

ment nox the nation and should request her collaboration in report-

jag on foreign (and only foreign) attempts to exploit the situation.

As an alternative to this direct approach, we believe that consider-

ation sbould ba given to the desirability of verely stating that

becausether activity in the civil rights movement she has been

thrown into contact with Vietnanese, Cubans, etc. of interest to

NOrIRM and on whom we would welcone reports. This line has the

virtue of having less blou-back potential should out approach be

declined and we would hope that once a relationship with her had

been established she sould volunteer information on SNCC and its

foreion involvement: Reinforcing the approach RODIGAST suggesta

that she be offered a small payment of, say, $200 per month to assist

her is seeting the obligations of living abroad. This paymeat will

PAGENO.

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION:

SECRBTRYBAT

SE CONTINUED

2 05,31

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ATION +-

SECRETRYBAT

MOrALEM. SYMBOL AND. NUMBEI

OEPA-1058

be attractive to her since she is somewhat lazy-

she is now living

on a grant fron Identity " which la designed to give her. the finan-

cial independence to voite another book. However, she has done no

writing Yet and la begiming to be concerned regarding her source

of incone when the grant expires at the end of the year.

7. Time is of great importance in any approach to Identity A,

In RODIGAST's vied.. He stresses that she is beconing concerned

regarding future income and nay soon begin withdrawing from SNCC

activities in order to begin writing. More importantly, her normal

instincts may soon lead to a falling out with Identity C and other

radicals who ara active in SNCC. If this happens it can be expected

to severely reduce her access. Were she in contact with WOrIR,

however, such arguments with target personalitles could be avoided

througà carefal worIly guidance.

8. This we are presented with what appears to be an opportunity

to gain a collaborator who might be able to provide information of

the highest interest regarding Cosmunist efforte to use succ, and

who might be able to gain access to varlous other radical groups

at least abroad, seem to be virtually unapproachable and thus this

opportanity may be almost unique. At the same time, there appears

to be a rather critical time factor operative here.

9. In additiot, rather findamental questions are raised by

this posstallity, which will certainly require careful consideration

prior to any approach to Identity A. we are impressed with the

thoroughness of BODIGAST'S assennent of this operational possibility

and believ it varrants serious consideration by Headguarters.

have no reports regarding the impact ot the assassination of Dr.

Martin Inther Ring on Identity A and the other members of the SNCC

group although our guess is that it will only accelerate forces

now in operation and tender more important, even critical, the

consideratton of this proposal:

10-- He request that an appropriate clearance of Identity A be

expedited and that ve be advised as soon as posaible whether of not

Headgarters wishes to purme further the exploration of this y

Adrian B, MASLOTI

4-54

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

ISSIFICATION

SECREI/RUBAT

CONTINUED"

13 01. 3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET ABN

SEPARATE COVER ATTACEMENT 1 TO:

ORPA- 1058

IDENTITIES

A

- Carlene Hatcher Polite

EmilY Moore

Julia Herve

The National Council on the Arts (USA)

SECREBBAT

---

## Page 5

14-00000

RESUME

CARLENE POLITE

28 rue des Lyonnais

Paris 5e

PORt Royal: 68-52

BIRTE DATE:

August 28, 1932

Detroit,

Michigan

U.S.A.

EDUCATION:

Detroit Public Schools - 1937 - 1849 (Diploma)

Resident/Student/Employee

- New York city

1949 * 1959

DETROIT, MICHIGAN:

Detroit Council for Human Rights

8014 Grand River Avenue

Rever LA PEARLIN, CHATRIAN

MAY: 1963 - November, 1963

Coordinator Spegial Assistant to the Chairman

Duties/Responsibilities Included:

Coordination of state-wide organizations for June 23rd

WALK TO FREEDOM WITH MARTIN LUTHER KING ' Cobo Hall Arena

(with cooperation of all related City and Covernmental Departments)

Coordination

and complete organization of the

dovember 8th through lots, 1963 NORTHERN NEG LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Carlone Pol1l Resume

.. Pago THo

Michigan State Democratic State Central: Committee

847 Book Bullding

washington Boulevard

i Detroit 26, Michigan

August, 1962 - May, 1963

Assistant Office Manager

Spring Electoral Campaign (1963) Coordinator,

Citizens for Sound Government

1601 Hashington Boulevard Building

•Detroit 26, Michigan

Decenber, 1962 - February, 1963

Executive Secretary)

January,: 1963

Elected by the Voters of the loth Congressional

Distriot (State of Miohigan) to the Michigan

Democratio State Central Committee

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Carlone Po to Resume

Page- Three:

NEW YORK CITYS

1949 - 1959

Student/Dancer - Martha Graham School of Contemporary Danoe

"Company Member - Filth Stephen Dance Group

IMI/YAHA

- 92nd Street - Young Dancers Concert Serles

•Dancer - Anato 'Opera' - Metrpolitan Operay"

Dancer/Actress:

The Boyfriend

Dark of the Moon

The Disenchanted

Children's Theatre

The King and 1

Office Manager - Vanguard Playhouse -Egulty Theatre - Detrolt

September, 1960 -

June, 1961

ADDENDAY.

Guest Artist - Wayne State University - Detroit

Conversations In the Arts - 1960

Guest Instrictor (Dance) Wayne State University

Dancer's Workshop

Dancer/Teacher

Recreation

Dancer/Model for Nation-wide Television - National Auto

Representing General Motors (Chevrolet Division);

November, 1968 - August, 1964 - Detroit PLAYBOY Club

(the Bunny Viva...)/

---

