# 104-10216-10100

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10100

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEGRET

16.02-97

0P-Ti..

55-1247-74

31 July 1974

NENOBANDUM POR THB RECORD

SUBJECT: I. Irving Davideon

At 1000 houre on 31 July 1974, In compllance with lastructions

from HI. Balpers, I est Uich Nlal Alpaley, Chlef, Covert Procurenent/O1,

calative to the Davidson pattor. Alasley road the Hasblagton PO memo

regardlog tha subjoct and then called Billy Morgan and askod him to

J011 83. Morgan so Chlet, Operation: Support Branch, Supply Divlsion/01,

bas the direct responsibility of funding for, strelving, and storing

Items of the type chat Davidion 18 seeking to peddle. After Morgan

read the lashingion seno, a lous discussion ensued fron uhich the

folloning polato energed:

A. Per Instructions fIon ItI. Colby, the CIA 18

currently engaged in a dialogue vita the DOD to

deterine the mutual responsibilitles of the CIA and

the DOD I1l future paramilitary operations.

One of the

NOst IMportant espects of thia natteI la loglatIcal

support.

Although this has not yet been settled, the

assumption la that the CIA vill continue to bear tha

PRC anss and arno to support paramilitary ops.

has sever been a ulaston of the three ailitary services

and they bave no capability for chia typo of acquísition.

(line principal ll. rep In these discussiona vira tae

DOD 16 JOBes GleTus, Deputy Chlef, SOG.)

bo The CIA Inventory of 7.62 Sovlet auso has

been serfously depleted in tha past year and, for

several sonths, Alaslay has been seeking to procure

up to s sillion rounds through different sourcas

vitbout success.

sons secuTity tsk.

& 2 DPDET E BY AL06SO

SECRET

41л,.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

85-1247-74

SUBJECT: I. Inviaz unvidson

e. Is vies of this fact, Morgan offered che oplasos

that fros a logiatical point of vlew it vould be advantageona

to purchase the carire 25 illion rounda fron Davidson (at

a cost ho estisated to be 1a the range of $3,125,000.00).

ista vould proviãe the Agency ulth a five-year supply and

allalaata the socessity for Mlasley runalag the security

gantlet every leu sontha to replental the leventory.

Nevertheless, because of Davidson's unsatory

rapuration and bla close connection with columfat jack

Andersos, 18 tas generally agread that blu ullliestion

mould bo risky in the extrera.

Afaeley mopested that me run the prebles t, his boss.

Mehud] Kalanick, Oles, Office of Loriotles.

Accordlagly us set with

Malanick and his Deputy, Jases Medonald. After a thorough rebeat of the

satter, li vas agreed tbat:

Margan vill confer vich SOO and deterine

the featbelty of taktag the satire 25 millioa roundo.

b. Alnslay and Morgan will check with their

logarinate aras dealera and see if say of thess bave

ever heard of Davideor. Is so, one of then will

apprasch his sad ael (Innocently) 1f he knows of

asy 1.62 asso avallable.

Co There 1a aloo a posalbillty that one of

(asley'a regular contacra nigut have some 1dea a

a uno vauldson's source 1s. In that case the soure

vill be approached directly and Davideos vill be cut

out of the parcera.

d. DOD MIll Instruct the Hashlagton Plald 01f1ce

so tell Devidaos chas theTe La Do CIA Iacerest in Ehta

acquialtion and bou out of thlo affalo.

WILLIAM D. MATHER

Calaf, fornet Section

wisather/pk

Mies Services/Coarral

Carono

SECRET

---

