# 104-10186-10235

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10235₴

* 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Fernando FLEYTES Coba

REPORT NO.

CSC1-316/01228-61

2 October 1964

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PACE & Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQOCIONS 1961

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IHPORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer. who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service.unt1l April 196%.

Headquartors Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

it is requosted that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

cornando FUENTES Cuba was a lieutenant an the Cuban Police

force and worked in the Confidential Department under Commander

Efigonio ALMEJEIRAS,, Chief of Police.

verify it, he heard

that FUENTES

heard of FUENTES, ne

in Hallins, Canada.

4

3

2

Headquarters Comments

1. Included with a report dated 27 November 1959, was a

complote list of the personnel employed by the Departamento

vonico de Investiraciones (Technical Department of Investi

cations - DTI) as of 6 November 1959.

Included on the lis

Has

one Sargeant Fernando FUENTES Cobas who worked in

Bureau

responsible for foreign intelligence

operations for the Pulicia Nacional Revolucionaria (National

Revolutionary Police - PNR).

ECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ledeed Tea

STATE

Tors

ARMY

I NAVY

I AIR

- REP CINCLINT CINCSO =

No's hold datebuton indicated by ""*"..

_I&NS

INLORMATION RERORT

INSA

KKX

LOch

FBI 2

LEACANADA

3 LEBRITISH

=

WaSHERIM

5

4

2

1

AL'SAEOBiL! YELSR

1L WELLIDR

2

11.

152

•1.

CILLIA

CI/R&i

ALL'ALLE

TOTALS

SIDLES

+-1.X-1693

1x-15911

INO PROJECT(ANNUGYI

, CSCI-316/01228-64

CCONOIMATINGTIL

MH/SA 7 (1), HE 1 (2). CI 4,

RID 1

11Ais0N

201-26.5067

4/0

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSER CSCI-316/01228-64

-2-

2. An untested

source fave a representative of this Agency a copy of

a list of rovulations issued on 15 lar 1960 bi she National

Revolutionary Police, uhich came under the Ministry of the Revolu

tionary Armed Forces of Cuba, for the discipline of members of

the Servicio Secreto Revolucionario (Cuban Revolutionary Secret

Service - SSR).

This document was signed by Fernando FUENTE Cobs,

Confidential Section of the General Command of the

Antional Revolutionary Police.

3.

In'a report dated 19 Say 1962, an untested source, who was a guide

and interpreter for the ICAP,

a Cuban government

andled the needs of foreign visitors to cuba, said that firs

Licutenant Fernando COBAS

until sometime in

1960 when he started working for the Tourist Police, a part of

In January or February 1961, COBAS transferred to the

4.

In & report dated 20 September 1962, an untested source reported

that Fernando FUENTES Covas was with

the Policia Transita (Transit

Police) in the DTI.

5. Another office of this Agency, in a report dated 36 December 1962,

reported that Fernando

FUENTES Coba, & Cuban national, had been

convicted in 1957 of violation of the United States immigration

lawS. FUENTES was engaged in forging birth certificates

Cuban nationals to enter the Urited States as Puerto Ricans.

FUENTES mover to Miami, where he became an ardent Castrista.

July 1959, he

served as a provocateur in luring an American flyer,

PINO, to Cuba, ostensibly to smuggle suneone out of

Because of his success in luring del

PINO back to Cuba,

where he was badly wanted by the Castro regime, FUENTES leceived

an important position

in the Confidential Bureau of the Cuban

G-2, and for a time served as chief of the Bureau.

On 29 January 1963, a source whose reliability cannot be determined,

reported that he had seen Fernando FUENTES Coba, described as a

Castro agent, debark from the SS Shirley Lykes on 25 January 1963,

at Port Everglades. 24

7. An orriclalplialson service reported on 25 February 1963, that

Fernando FUENTES Coba Has

in Habana, Cuba.

FUENTES was a former permanent resident of tre

born on 21 June 1920 United States from

1946 to 1949,

and served in the United States Army.

At the time of

this report FUENTES was described as & photographer with the

Tourist Commission in Habana.

Source, in a report dated October

1963, reported that FUENTES was settled in Halifax, Canada, and

had obtained temporary employment.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSE!

---

