# 104-10326-10074

## Page 1

AAAAA

1704-10326-10074

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MIENO?

95-1374342

SENSIND:

SECRET

RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE:

1.

FRP :

,2.

ADV: CE/w/MB (1102Z)

STAFF

ACTION: CE/W/MB (773)

FILE,

CE/W, DDO (4/W)

95 1374342

ASP

INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, COMPT, LIMITO, MDSX,

PAGE 001

TOR:

1611027 AUG 95

IN 1374342

MNSK 14144

S BE R E T 1610592 AUG 95 STAFF

CITE MINSK 14144 (FALANTZ ACTING)

TO :

PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR :

LIMIT

/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W

SLUCS: WWINTEL RYBAT CODEL

it's.

SUBJECT: BRIEFING PAPER AND OSWALD FILES

REF:

DIRECTOR 404798 95 1366840 '

TEXT:

1.

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI OR COMMENT

-2. STATION IS FAXING TO HOS A COPY OF BRIEFING PAPER

FOR CODEL SHELBY, REVISED IN ACCORD WITH SUGGESTIONS OF S

REFERENCE. UNLESS ADDITIONAL REVISIONS ARE REQUIRED, THIS

IS THE COPY WHICH WE WILL PROVIDE I CODEL TO READ, BUT NOT

LO_ CARRY AWAY.-

APPRECIATE SUMMARY INFORMATION REGARDING

HISTORICAL, CONVERSATION WITH LOCAL SERVICEABOUT FILES ON

*<LEE HARVEY OSWALD.> ACOS BELIEVES HE DID SEE THE

MENTIONED IN BEE. AT TIME OF RECEIPT STATION WAS VERY BUSY

AND IN ACCORD WITH "READ AND BURN" POLICY A COPY-WAS-NOT

{RETAINED. A RETRANSMISSION IS NOT NECESSARY.

ALSO, IT MAY

NOT BE NECESSARY FOR HQS TO PURSUE THE MATTER FURTHER,

SINCE SUMMARY INFORMATION WILL PROBABLY SUFFICE.

ADDITIONALLY, ACOS HAS LEARNED THAT YESTERDAY THE 2

AMBASSADOR SUBMITTED A DIPLOMATIC NOTE TO DEPUTY FOREIGN L

MINISTER ANDREI SANIKOV WHICH IS AN OFFICIAL REQUEST FOR

THE FILES ON OSWALD. • STATION JUDGES BY THIS THAT FBI HAS

CARRIED THE ACTION-TO-STATE_WITH-THIS RESULT

{COMMENT: THERE IS BELIEF HERE THAT THE FILES

STAT MADE

*AVAILABLE TO THE AUTHOR OF A RECENT BOOK ON THE KENNEDY>

+ ASSASSINATION-

4.5. STATION WILI, ADVISE HQS OF IMPRESSIONS OF CODEL

SHELBY AT CONCLUSION OF VISIT. THANKS FOR PROMPT ANDE

(THOUGHTFUL SUPPORT IN PREPARATIONS FOR THIS VISITE

NONE. DECL DADR_DRV-HUM #82.

SECRE

ODPD,

---

## Page 2

13-00000

.....

(MHENOY

95-1374342

---=====

END OF

MESSAGE

(SENTS INDE RYER

SECRET

PAGE :

2

ECRET

---

