# 104-10335-10008

## Page 1

AAAA

1104-10335-10008

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

"EM

BOARD

March 6, 1996

CIA HAS H9 05.S0HON TO

DECLAGSIFOENON AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOOUMENT

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Re:

Assassination Records Review Board Request for Additional Information and

Records No. CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

Dear John:

We would once again appreciate your assistance in obtaining access to CIA records of

possible pertinence to the John F. Kennedy assassination. We request that you locate

CIA or Intelligence Community serial publications for the dates immediately before and

rter the assassination (November 20-30, 1963), including such publications as th

resident's Daily Brief, the President's Checklist, or any serial publications relate

specifically to Cuba or the Soviet Union. In addition to intelligence reports, we also

request that a search be undertaken for any analytical materials bearing upon the

assassination.

As with our previous requests, we would be pleased to discuss with you ways in which

we might better refine this request.

Thank you for your assistance.

Sincerely,

Sione

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 2

13-00000

file

SINATION

REVIEN

BOARD

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

CIA HAS NO CHATTO

DECLASSIFIC:

RELEASE ORETTER ORMATION

IN THIS DOCU

November 27, 1996

VIA FACSIMILE

The Honorable John M. Deutch

Director of Central Intelligence

• The Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: The Central Intelligence Agency's Compliance with the JFK Assassination

Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107

Dear Mr. Deutch:

Since 1994, the Assassination Records Review Board ("Review Board") has been

working with a number of Federal agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency,

to locate and publicly release records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.

These actiors have been taken pursuant to The President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994) (JFK

Act"). We have been working with Mr. John Pereira, Chief, Historical Review Group

and Mr. Barry Harrelson, Senior Review Officer, Historical Review Group of CIA and

have appreciated the cooperation we have received.

The purpose of this letter is to request your agency's cooperation in assisting the

Review Board in discharging its responsibility of assuring Congress and the American

people that the goals of the JFK Act have been accomplished to the greatest reasonable

extent. We want to assure the American people that the United States Government has

identified, located, and released all records relating to the assassination of President

Kennedy. Indeed, one of the paramount purposes of the JFK Act is to certify to the

public that the United States Government is not withholding relevant materials related

to the assassination. See, e.g., Assassination Materials Disclosure Act, H. R. Rep. No. 102-

625, Part 1, 102d Cong. 2d Sess. (1992) ("The Federal Government's failure to release

official materials has contributed to numerous conspiracy theories and fueled charges of

government complicity in the assassination... a salutary purpose is served in opening

these files [relating to the JFK assassination] to allay the suspicion of government

cover-up.").

BOARD MeMBeRs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson •

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 3

13-00000

The Honorable John M. Deutch

November 27, 1996

Page 2

The Review Board has recently considered how it, along with the relevant federal

agencies, can best demonstrate to the American public that a thorough, good faith, and

diligent effort has been made to locate and release all remaining assassination-related

records within the control of the United States Government (and that the Government is

not hiding any such materials from public disclosure). Pursuant to the Congressional

mandate under the JFK Act to "create an enforceable, independent, and accountable

process for the public disclosure of such records," 44 U.S.C. § 2107(2)(a)(3), the Review

Board seeks to have the relevant federal agencies provide a complete and specific

accounting of their efforts to locate and release assassination-related records, including

a full explanation for any destruction of such records.

Accordingly, the Review Board requests that each relevant agency adhere to the formal

compliance program (hereinafter "JFK Act Compliance Program") outlined below and

devised by the Review Board pursuant to its powers under Section 7() (1)(A), (B), (C),

(D), and (F) of the JFK Act. We hereby request that you undertake the following

measures by the dates provided (these dates were set in view of the fact that the

Review Board's operations currently are scheduled to expire on September 30, 1997):

Designation of Agency Compliance Official (or officials) and statement of

intent to comply with the JFK Act. We request that by December 9, 1996,

your agency designate an Agency Compliance Official who ultimately will

be responsible for ensuring that the agency has complied with its

obligations under the JFK Act, including the identification, location, and

organization of assassination records and the transmission of those

records to the National Archives and Records Administration ('National

Archives"). Although the Review Board assumes that Mr. John Pereira or

Mr. Barry Harrelson will serve in this position, we nevertheless await

your formal confirmation. If necessary, your agency may designate

additional persons with knowledge of the measures that have been

undertaken to locate assassination records.

We also request that by December 9, 1996, the agency convey its

agreement to adhere to the compliance procedures outlined in this letter.

To the extent that any compliance procedure described below appears to

be unreasonable or to present difficulties that we may not have

anticipated, please explain why and make alternate suggestions to us.

Initial Statement of Compliance. We request that the Agency Compliance

Official prepare, by January 6, 1997, an initial written statement of the

---

## Page 4

13-00000

The Honorable John M. Deutch

November 27, 1996

Page 3

agency's compliance with the JFK Act ("Statement of Compliance"),

setting forth the steps that the agency has taken to locate and process

assassination records. The Review Board recognizes that many of the

relevant federal agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency, have

previously written letters to the Review Board apprising it of their

progress at various stages of identilying and processing assassination

records under the JFK Act. The Statement of Compliance, while it nay

include information previously reported to the Board, is to be the agency's

comprehensive and final report to the American public of what it has

done to locate records relating to the assassination. This Statement of

Compliance shall include, to the fullest reasonable extent, the following

information:

a.

A complete description of all steps that your agency took to

identify and locate assassination records including, but not limited

to, an identification of the major record collections and files that

were consulted in the agency's search, any departmental file

indices consulted, the names and titles of the persons who were

responsible for conducting the searches, the physical locations of

the records that were searched, the off-site storage facilities (e.g.,

Federal Records Centers) searched, the specific steps that were

taken to locate and retrieve materials in archives, and any other

criteria used by the agency to locate assassination records.

b.

A description of the steps that the agency took in direct response to

specific requests of the Review Board to locate certain additional

records or information relating to the assassination. In particular,

we ask that the CIA describe what specific steps it has taken to

address the following requests: CIA-9, Publications and Analytical

Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated March 6, 1996 to Mr.

John Pereira); CIA-11, Silvia Duran's Original Statement (See David

G. Marwell letter dated May 3, 1996 to Mr. John Pereira); CIA-12,

JMWAVE Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated May 22,

1996 to Mr. John Pereira); for HTLINGUAL records (See T. Jeremy

Gunn Memorandum dated October 1, 1996 to Mr. Barry Harrelson);

and for Monthly Operational Reports on Cuban Exile Groups (See

Manuel E. Legaspi Memorandum dated October 17, 1996 to Mr.

Barry Harrelson).

---

## Page 5

13-00000

The Honorable John M. Deutch

November 27, 1996

Page 4

4.

c.

To the extent that any assassination-related records have been

destroyed by the agency or any agency official, a full and specific

explanation of the circumstances surrounding the destruction of

such records.

d.

The status of remaining work that you can now identify that needs

to be completed by your agency in order to comply fully with the

JFK Act, including an identification of the categories of records

that must be processed and transmitted to the National Archives, a

description of any additional searches for files that must be done,

and the projected date(s) for completion of these tasks.

Review Board Interview With Agency Compliance Official (or Officials).

Shortly after the submission of the agency's written Statement of

Compliance, we ask that the Agency Compliance Official (as well as any

persons who helped prepare the agency's initial Statement of

Compliance) be made available to the Review Board for an interview

regarding the location of agency assassination records. The interview will

be used as an opportunity to resolve any outstanding questions regarding

the agency's search, including any follow-up tasks to be completed by the

agency. The Review Board anticipates that these interviews will be

conducted in January 1997.

Submission of Final Agency Declaration of Compliance. By July 1, 1997,

Federal agencies are expected to complete the process of identification,

location, and declassification of its assassination records at which time

they should submit to the Review Board a final declaration certifying,

under oath, their compliance with the provisions of the JFK Act (the "Final

Declaration of Compliance"). Because of the volume of CIA records, such

a "final" statement may not be practicable at that time. However, we do

expect that CIA will provide a complete status appraisal by July 1, 1997.

This final declaration shall set forth all of the information initially set forth

in the initial Statement of Compliance and shall also supplement the initial

Statement of Compliance by detailing any further steps that were

conducted by the agency in identifying and locating assassination records.

The agencies' Final Declarations of Compliance will be included in our

final report to Congress.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

The Honorable John M. Deutch

November 27, 1996

Page 5

Compliance Depositions. Starting on or about August 1, 1997, the Review

Board, pursuant to its statutory authority, may conduct depositions,

under oath, of the Agency Compliance Official along with any other

agency officials with responsibility for complying with the JFK Act. The

decision to take a compliance deposition of an agency will be made on a

case by case basis, taking into account the importance of the agency to the

work of the JFK Act and the sufficiency of the agency's efforts to account

fully for its compliance with the JFK Act. In the event that the Review

Board decides to commence a compliance deposition of an agency, the

responsible agency designee(s) will be expected to testify under oath with

respect to any and all issues relating to the agency's record search,

including the scope of the search, the identity of files searched, the

destruction of any relevant records, and any other matters set forth in the

Final Declaration of Compliance. Any person obligated to appear for a

deposition under oath shall be fully entitled to obtain legal representation.

We look forward to receiving your initial response, by December 9, that designates your

Agency Compliance Official and includes your statement regarding your position with

respect to the provisions outlined in this letter. To the extent that you have any

questions or suggestions regarding the Compliance Program, please do not hesitate to

contact our General Counsel, T. Jeremy Gunn, at (202) 724-0088.

Thank you for your cooperation with our work.

Sincerely,

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

CC:

The Honorable Nora Slatkin, Executive Director, Central Intelligence Agency

Michael O'Neil, General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency

John Pereira, Chief, Historical Review Group, Central Intelligence Agency

Barry Harrelson, Senior Review Officer, Historical Review Group, Central

Intelligence Agency

---

## Page 7

13-00000

• SECRET

10 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Dick Flynn

DI Focal Point for JFK Board

FROM:

Barry Harrelson

DCI /CSI /HRG

JFK Project Officer

SUBJECT:

ARRB Request No. CIA-9

REFERENCE:

"Compliance Letter" to DCI, Er. ARRB

ExDir, dtd. 27 Nov 1996, (attached)

1. The attached request was received from the

Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) in March 1996. It

appears from our records that a copy was not sent to you.

(Our normal procedure is to provide the appropriate

Directorate Focal Point a copy of the request as

soon as

received.) This is one of several requests placed on hold

while we

worked on other ARRB priorities.

2. In the Agency's response to the 27 November

"Compliance" letter (see reference), we asked the ARRB to

prioritize their requests.

The ARRB staff has identified

CIA-9 as a "priority" request.

3.

The initial request is for access not release. We

usually limit access to sensitive material to Jeremy Gunn,

ARRB General Counsel, and one or two of his staff.

If the

material is particularly sensitive, access is restricted to

Mr. Gunn and/or the Executive Director of the Board, Mr.

David Marwell.

Gunn, Marwell and all members of the ARRB

Staff's CIA team are

fully cleared (TS/SCI).

4. HRG reviewer Jim Hanrahan (31809) is the focal point

for this request.

Many of the documents described in CIA-9

were part of eight Executive Order Mandatory Review requests

(see attachments) from 1994 and 1995. Jim has obtained from

IP&CRD full-text copies of the documents. He will be in

touch with you concerning access to these specific

documents.

5.

Mr. Gunn will be at IP the week of February 24 to

review documents.

Please

advise HRG as soon as possible of

SECRET

THIS MEMORANDUM IS ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL USE ONLY

WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED ATTACHMENT

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

any concerns or restrictions on access to the mandatory

review documents.

Also please provide any additional

documents responsive to CIA-9 as soon as possible,

and

advise us of the status of the search by CQB 21 February

1997.

151

Barry Harrelson

Attachments:

as

stated

THIS MEMORANDUM IS ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED ATTACHMRNT

---

## Page 9

13-00000

BECRET

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee w/attachment

1

- C/HRG w/o att

1 - JFK Request File w/attachments

- Jim w/o att

1 - Barry w/o att

SECRET

THIS MEMORANDUM IS ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL USE ONLY

WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED ATTACHMENT

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

CIA -#9

23 April 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: Jim Hanrahan

CSI

FROM:

John Loverra

DI/IRO Staff

SUBJECT:

Documents Related to President Kennedy

Assassination

1. Per your request, OIR searched for the documents

assassination.We are still searching for the PICL and the

World Reaction to President Kennedy's Assassination series.

Enclosed are the CIB's and the CIR's for the dates you

requested. I will be in touch to let you know

the results of

our ongoing search.

(John Loverro

CL BY:

CL REASON:

DECL ON:

DRV FROM:

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

TOP SECRET

14 May 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: Jim Hanrahan

CSI/HRG

FROM:

John Loverro

DI/IRO Staff

SUBJECT:

ARRB Request

No.

CIA- 9

1. The DI/IMO has located the PICL's which you

requested as part of the above request. Copies for 20, 21

and 23 November 1963

are attached. Please call

if you

additional material.

John Loverro

ADMIN- INTERNAL USE ONLY

when separated from attachments

TOP

SECRET

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

file CIA-9

17 June 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: Barry Harrelson

Senior Review Officer

CSI/HRG

FROM:

Richard J. Flynn

DI/ IRO

SUBJECT:

JFK Assassination Review Board Request

1. On 11 June 1997 members of the DI/IRO staff, OSS

personnel, and Bonnie Hunter of your staff met with Michelle

Combs and

Bob Skwriot of the JFK Assassination Review Board

to discuss DI document retrieval methods. The meeting was

requested by the Board to provide them with a clearer

understanding of DI document searches.

2. Ilse Hartman and Joyce Jump of OSS provided a

detailed overview of the document retrieval process. Ilse

walked the board members through a typical request,

document

search, and retrieval. The Board members were satisfied with

the thorough nature of the process and appreciated the time

spent to provide a detailed overview.

3. During our discussions the Board members asked for

five additional topics which they felt might be appropriate

to research on the JFK assassination. These were:

- USSR, Cuba, and Mexico combined with the term assa-

ssination for the period 20-30 November 1963.

- Minsk radio factories (where Oswald was employed)

and possible Cuban training bases in the Minsk region for

the period October 1959 to January 1963.

- Helsinki and visas to try to capture information

on Oswald's visa application. The Board also asked for

information

on hotels in Moscow and Minsk where Oswald may

have stayed.

- Information on the freighter "Marion Lykes" plus a

passenger manifest covering the period 19 September to 8

October 1959.

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: JFK Assasination Review Board Request

- Information on anti-Castro activity by Cuban exile

groups operating in the US for the period January 1961 to

January 1964.

4. Ilse did a search of these topics and was able to

find three documents related to activities of Cuban exile

groups in Miami for the

time period specified. These

documents are attached. There were no hits on the other

requests.

Richard J. Flynn

2

SECRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

TOP SECRET

= ;

?..

19 June 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Barry Harrelson

CSI / HRG

John Loverro

DI / IRO Staff

JFK Assassination Board Request

1. Dick Flynn asked me to forward the attached to you.

Documents included are the President's Intelligence

Checklist for 22, 24, and 29 November 1963, the Daily

Summary for 25 and 29 November 1963 and 2,3,4,5,6,9,10,11,12

and 13 December 1963, the Weekly Summary for 22 and 29

November 1963, the President's Intelligence Briefing Book for

26 November 1963,

November 1963 and 2 December 1963, Current Intelligence

Memorandums for 25 and 29 November 1963, CIA Memorandums for

23,24,25 November 1963 ( World Reaction to the Assassination

of Presidet Kennedy), a memorandum on the Analysis of World

Reaction to President Kennedy's Assassination (13 December

1963) , FBIS World Reaction Series No. 8-1963, Government

Leaders Expected to Attend President Kennedy's Funeral, 25

November 1963, FBID 25 November 1963 entitled "The Past

Soviet Propaganda Assessment of President Johnson", two

undated memoranda from Job#79T01762, Box 5, Folder

3, several

rough drafts of various papers, and a memorandum entitled

"Rumors About Lee Harvey Oswald" dated 23 March 1964.

2.

Please let us know if the DI/IRO can be of

additional

assistance.

(John Loverro

HANDLE VIA (TALENT -KEYHOLE -COMINT}

(CHANNELS JOINTLY

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

TOP SECRET

19 June 1997

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:

Documents Included in Memo to Barry Harrelson, 19

June 1963

1. The President's Intelligence Checklist, 23(TS

Dinar), and 24, 29 November 1963 (TS) •

2. Daily Summary 25 and 29 November 1963 and

2,3,4,5,6,9,10,11,12,13 December 1963. (TS Dinar)

Weekly Summary 22 and 29 November 1963. (S/NF)

4.

The President's Intelligence Briefing Book 26

November 1963. (TS Dinar)

5.

Current Intelligence Digest 26 November and 2

December 1963. (S/NF)

6.

Current Intelligence Memorandum 25 November

1963 . (C)

Current Intelligence Memorandum OCI No. 2477/63 29

November 1963. (C)

8.

Current Intelligence Memorandum SC No.06504/63 5

November 1963. (TS Dinar/NF)

9. CIA Memorandum "World Reaction to the Assassination

of President Kennedy" 23,24, and 25 November 1963. (TS Dinar)

10. Memorandum

"Analysis of World Reaction to President

Kennedy's assassination" 13 December 1963. (S/Limited

Distribution)

11. FBIS World Reaction Series No. 8 - 1963 26 November.

1963. (Official Use Only)

12. "Government Leaders Expected to Attend President

Kennedy's Funeral" 25 November 1963. (Not Classified)

13. FBID Special Memorandum "The Past Soviet Propaganda

Assessment of President Johnson"

25 November 1963. (C)

14. Various undated, unattributed memos from Job 3

79T01762, Box 5, Folder 3. (Some pages labeled TS)

15. Various long

hand versions of undated, unattributed

drafts.

No Job number identified. (One page noted as TS in

longhand; later pages labeled TS Umbra/Sensitive/Chess/Ruff)

16. Memorandum

"Rumors About Lee Harvey Oswald" dated

• 23 March 1963. (S)

17. Two documents on file search requests for material

on President

Kennedy's Assassination (No Classification)

HANDLE VIA TALENT -KEYHOLE-COMINT

CHANNELS JOINTLY

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

13-00000

TOP

SECRET

SUBJECT:

Documents Included in Memo to Barry Harrelson, 19

June 1963

Distribution:

IANDLE VIA TALENT-KEYHOLE-COMINT

CHANNELS JOINTL

2

TOP

SECRET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

C:A

DECLAS

RELEASU

IN THIS CO

'ON TO

ANDOR

ACORMATION

December 10, 1997

Barry,

Welcome back! Here are the two letters we received from the LBJ Library with

the listed materials attached. We can process these documents as assassination records

by designating only the sections of the reports/ checklist/memoranda that are

assassination related and declaring the rest NBR. We could include a short

memorandum which explains that these documents are compilations of lots of issues,

and the NBR redactions are unrelated to the assassination. If these materials are about

to be released under the Executive Order and there are no redactions in the

assassination related parts, the Board will probably not need to see them.

As long as you are talking to the Executive Order folks, there were additional

materials (beyond the ones specified in these letters) which the LBJ Library sent to CIA

and I reviewed early last spring. Some of those items also could be designated as

assassination records. I can give you a copy of the list if you don't have it. It would be

nice to know what has happened to these materials too.

Thanks for checking on this issue It IS part.of CLA 9 If this issue is settled,

CIA-9 may be close to completion.

Michelle

---

## Page 18

13-00000

Lyndon Baines Johnson Library

2313 Red River Street Austin, Texas 78705

June 23, 1995

In reply refer to:

NLe 95-263

TION TO

DECLASO

AND/OR

RELEASE OF OV INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT:

Mr. John Wright

Information and Privacy Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC 20505

Dear Mr. Wright:

Under the mandate of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act and the

provisions of Section 3.4, Executive Order 12356, Harry J. Middieton, the Director of the

Lyndon Baines Johnson Library, has requested the mandatory declassification review of the

enclosed CIA document from our holdings.

The enclosed document list identifies the Library file which contains the document. This

request is from donated historical material; therefore, Freedom of Information Act and Privacy

Act exemptions may not be cited.

Would CIA please coordinate declassification review of the document, including any necessary

concurrences from other agencies, and inform the Library of its determination for each

document. Should CIA excise information from any documents, please provide. the Library

with appropriately marked copies. Please determine, where applicable, if information may be

downgraded.

Because of the heightened interest in this material, we ask that you please expedite review

of these documents and respond as soon as possible with the results of your review.

If there is any question concerning this request, please do not hesitate to contact me. I can

be reached at 512-482-5137, extension 255.

Sincerely,

Rine finica

REGINA GREENWELL

Senior Archivist

Enclosures

UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL OF CLASSIFIED ATTACHMENTS

TOP SEERS

---

## Page 19

13-00000

LBJ LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.L.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

Address: 2313 Red River, Austin, TX 78705

File Location: NSF, Intelligence Briefings, President's Intelligence Checklist, 11/23-12/15/63, Box 1

Comments:

MR Case Number: NLJ 95-26

Page 1 of 1

Consulting Agency: CIA

Date Completed: 6/13/95.

Document

Description

Doc.

Date

Classift-

cation

No.

pp.

Comments

Action

Taken

1

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/23/63

TSI

Codeword

15'

[SC-NLJ-063/95 B/1]

• ORIECTION TO

DSCLASS::" KRON AND/OR

REFASTE OV INFORMATION

14984.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

ARITIVE LO

PARALYS

1988

August 4, 1994

Lyndon Baines Johnson Library

2313 Red River Street Austin, Texas 78705

GE OCTION TO

ON AND/OR

INFORMATION

In reply refer to:

NLJ 94-484

Mr. John Wright

Information and Privacy Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Wright:

Under the mandate of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act and the

provisions of Section 3.4, Executive Order 12356, Harry J. Middleton, the Director of the

Lyndon Baines Johnson Library, has requested the mandatory declassification review of the

enclosed CIA documents) from our holdings.

The enclosed document list identifies the Library file which contains the documents). This

request is from donated historical material; therefore, Freedom of Information Act and

Privacy Act exemptions may not be cited.

Would CIA please coordinate declassification review of the documents), including any

necessary concurrences from other agencies, and inform the Library of its determination for

each document. Should CIA excise information from any documents, please provide the

Library with appropriately marked copies.

Because of the heightened interest in this material, I ask that you please expedite review

of these documents and respond as soon as possible with the results of your review.

If there is any question concerning this request, please do not hesitate to contact me. I can

be reached at 512-482-5137.

Sincerely,

begin Queriall

REGINA GREENWELL

Senior Archivist

Enclosures

UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL OF ATTACHMENTS

COP GN

.-

CODEWORE MARSH

---

## Page 21

13-00000

LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

e (Last, First, M.I.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

ress: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX 78705

Location: See Below

iments:

• ..

Document

Description

Intelligence File, "Codeword Material, Yol, 1." Box 6

report

Intelligence Report

Doc.

Date

classifi.

cation

No.

PP.

11/26/63

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

11/25/63

TS/

5"

Codeword

TS/ ,8

Codeword

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

. •

11/24/63

TS/

Codeword

10°

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

11/23/63

TSI

Codeword

11"

I, Intelligence Briefings, "President's Intelligence Checklist, 11/23/63-12/5/63," Box 1

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/25/63

TS/

Codeword

11?

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/26/63

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/27/63

TS/

Codeword

TS/

Codeword

11'

16'

report

intelligence Report

undated

SI

Codeword

have

Comments

MR Case Number: NLJ 94-484

Page 1 of 2

Consulting Agency: CIA

Date Completed: 8/4/94

Action

Taken

[SC-NLJ-082/93 B/1]

?

SC No. 12420/63 B/1 L

SC No. 12149/63 B/1

SC No. 06509/63 B/1

(SC-NLJ-083/93 B/11 V

(SC-NLJ-084/93 B/1J V

[SC-NLJ-085/93 B/1]

(SC-NLJ-086/93 B/1J

AIF

NATION

÷ 30/0

OL

2

---

## Page 22

13-00000

LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

le (Last, First, M.I.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

Iress: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX 78705

Location: See Below

nments:

DOC.

Type

Document

Description

Dace

Classifi-

cation

E, Intelligence Briefings, "President's Intelligence Checklist, 11/23/63-1215/63," Box 1

cable

report

report.

Intelligence Report

President's Intelligence Checklist

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/22/63

11/28/63

11/30/63

TS/

Codeword

TS/

Codeword

TS/

Codeword

• 11

No.

pp.

4'

14"

• .

MR Case Number: NLJ 94-484

Page 2 of 2

Consulting Agency: CIA

Date Completed: 8/4/94

Conments

Action

Taken

ISC-NLJ-087/93 B/11 V DIF

(SC-NLJ-088/93 B/1J

ISC-NLJ-089/93 B/II

---

## Page 23

13-00000

E

R

FAX

H

E

To:

Fax #:

Subject:

Date:

Pages:

Barry Harrelson

(703) 613-3063

LBJ Library documents outstanding

May 28, 1998

9, including this cover sheet.

COMMENTS

CIA HAE INO CRECTION TO Y

DECLASO

SATION AND/OR

RELEASE C/CINFORMATION

The follöwing is a list of some of the LBJ Library documents that have not reached us in the

review process. As I understand it, these were submitted to you by the library and marked as

assassination records by Michelle. They are related to request CIA-9. As we discussed these are

not the balance of the LBJ library records awaiting review, only the most easily identified.

From the dosk ofo..

Robert J. Skwiror

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street, NW

WashingIon, D.C. 20530

(202) 724-0088

Fax: (202) 724-0457

---

## Page 24

13-00000

LBI LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.I.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

Address: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX. 78705

File Location: See Below

..

Comments:

Doc.

• Doc.

No.

- Type

28

report

Document

Description.

NSE, Intelligence File, "Codeword Material, Vol. 1," Box 6

Doc.

Date

classifi-

cation

No.

pP.

Intelligence Report

11/26/63

39

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

11/25163

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

11/24/63

1

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

11/23/63

ISE, Intelligence Briefings, "President's Intelligence Checklist, 11/23/63-12/5/63," Box 1

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/25/63

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/26/63

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/27/63

TSI

5

Codeword

TS/

Codeword

TSI

10

Codeword

TS/

11

Codeword

TS/ 11

Codeword

TSI

'11

Codeword

TS/

16

Codeword

report

Intelligence Report.

undated

S/

Codeword

MR Case Number: NLJ 94-984

Page 1 of 2

Consulting Agency: CIA

Date Completed: 8/4/94

Comments

Action

Taken

[SC-NLJ-082/93 B/1]

SC No. 12420/63 B/1

SC No. 12149/63 B/1

SC No. 06509/63 B/1

[SC-NLJ-083/93 B/1]

(SC-NLJ-084/93 B/1]

(SC-NLJ-085/93 B/1]

(SC-NLJ-086/93 B/1]

1829

NO O3.ISC7ICN TO

ATION AND/OR

: CIA INFORIMATION

---

## Page 25

13-00000

LBI LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.l.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

Address: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX 78705

File Location: See Below

Comments:

oc.

DOG.

Type

Document

Description

Doc.

Date

Class 185-

cation

No.

PP.

ISE, Intelligence Briefings, "President's Intelligence Checklist, 11/23/63-12/5163," Box !

b

cable

Intelligence Report

11/22/63

TSI

Codeword

4

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/28/63

TS/

Codeword

14

report

• President's Intelligence Checklist

11/30/63

TS/

Codeword

11

MR Case Number: NLJ 94-484

Page 2 of 2

Consulting Agency; CIA

Date Completed: 8/4/94

conments

Action

Taken

(SC-NLJ-087/93 B/1]

[SC-NLJ-088/93 B/1]

[SC-NLJ-089/93 B/1]

---

## Page 26

13-00000

LBI LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.I.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

Address: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX 78705

File Location: See Below

Comments:

Dacument

Description

Classifi

VSF. Intelligence Brietings, President's Intelligence Checklist, 11723-1275/63, Box 1

report

Intelligence Checklist

YSE. Country File, Cuba Castro's Speeches, Vol. 1, Box 20

11/24/63

TS

14

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

11/25/63

C

YSE, Country File, Cuba, TDCS's, Vol. 1, Box 32

152

report

Intelligence Report

12/20/63

158

report

Intelligence Report

12/18/63

170

report

Intelligence Report

183

report

Intelligence Report

188 report

Intelligence Report

190

report

Intelligence Report

YSE; Country File, USSR, Cables, Vol. 1. Box 217

36 report

Intelligence Report

YSF, Agency File CTA, Helms Memorandum, Box 10

14

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

12/13/63

S

11/27/63

S

11/24/63

11/23/63

S

S.

12/11/63

4/20/64

No.

pp.

11

2

1

2

2

2

2

5

3

MR Case Number: NLJ 95-211

Page 1 of 1.

Consulting Agency: CIA

*Date Completed: 5/24/95

Comments

Action

Taken.

(Sanitized 1990/copy enclosed]

---

## Page 27

13-00000

LBI LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.I.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

Address: 2313 Red River, Austin, TX 78705

File Location: NSF, Situation Room File, 11/22/63-12/31/63, Box 58

Comments: PCI= Possible Classified Information

1oc.

Docunent

1o.

Description

Doc.

Date

Classifi-

cation

Ho.

po.

:

repost

"Classified Log"

11/22/63-

12/31/63

PCI

• 71

Comments

MR Case Number: NLJ 95-270

Page 1 of 1

Consulting Agency: CLA/WH

Date Completed: 6/13/95

action

Taken

---

## Page 28

13-00000

LBI LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.L.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J:

• Address: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX 78705

File Location: See Below

Comments:

Doc.

No.

Doc.

Type

Document

Description

Doc.

Date

Classifi-

No.

cation

pp.

NSE, Committee File, President's Committee on the Warren Report, Meetings, Vol, 1, Box 14

2a

mencon

20-2 reprt

11

memcon

14

16

memo

draft

"Meeting on 10/19/64, of President's..." 10/21/64-

"Background Paper on Security of..."

"Meeting on 10/13/64 of President's..." 10/15/64

Chase to Bundy

(10/64]

10/13/64

From the President

10/12/64

5

S

5

S

5

1

NSF, Committee File, President's Committee on the Warren Report; Meetings, Vol. 1, Box 14

9

memo

9a

memo

Chase to Bundy

Osborn and Kallen to Carey

10/16/64

1

10/16/64

S

6

NSE, Committee File, President's Committee on the Warren Report, General, Vol. 2, Box 13

memo

32

memo

12a-1 report

Ash to Smith

Bundy to President

"Procedure for Conducting..."

11/17/64

1

11/6/64

• S.

1

11/5/64

4

comments

MR Case Number: NLJ 95-378

Page 1 of 1

Consulting Agency: CIA/WH

Date Completed: 8/30/95

Action

Taken

(Exempted 1976]

(Exempted 1976]

(Exempted 1976)

[Exempted 1976]

[Exempted 1976]

[Exempted 1976]

(Exempted 1976]

(Sanitized 1976/copy enclosed)

[Exempted 1977]

---

## Page 29

13-00000

BJ LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

ame (Last, First, M.I.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

ddress: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX 78705

ile Location: NSF, Committee File, President's Committee on the Warren Report, Meetings, Vol. 1, Box 14

omments:

c.

Doc.

Type

Document

Description

Doc.

Date

Classifi. No.

cation

PP•

Carments

MR Case Number: NLJ 95-380

Page 1 of 1

Consulting Agency: CIA

Date Completed: 8/30/95

Action

Taken

,

memo

Intelligence Memorandum

10/16/64

8

(Exempted 1976]

---

## Page 30

13-00000

LBJ LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.I.): MIDDLETON, HARRY J.

Address: LBJ Library, 2313 Red River Street, Austin, TX 78705

File Location: See Below

Comments: PCI= Possible Classified Information

Doc.

DOG.

Document

Type

Description

NSE, Country File, USSR, Memos, Vol, T. Box 217

Doc.

Date

61

memo

Harriman to Bundy

12/31/63

bla

notes

Walton's "Visit to Moscow"

12/63

NSF, Country File, USSR. Mikovan Conversations, Vol, 1. Box 228

memcon

"Soviet press reaction to President..."

11/25/63

memcon

"Mikoyan conversation with Mrs. Kennedy" 11/25/63

VSE, Country File, Cuba, Vol. 1, Box 16

31° airgram

La Paz A-477

59°

airgram

Madrid A-442

61°

airgram

Madrid A-437

1/2/64

12/16/63

12/13/63

78

cable

Madrid 1155

12/7/63

MR Case Number: NLJ. 95-212

Page 1 of 1

Consulting Agency: STATE

Date Completed: 5/24/95

Classift-

cation

No.

pp.

• C

C

1

5

1

1

5

PCI. - 2

PCI

2

•1

Conments

Action

Taken

declass

"(sanitized 1991 copy enelored

11

to CIA & Thisone

only

---

## Page 31

13-00000

LBI LIBRARY MANDATORY REVIEW SUBMISSION LIST

Name (Last, First, M.L.): MIDDLETON, HARRY j.

Address: 2313 Red River, Austin, TX 78705

File Location: NSF, Intelligence Briefings, President's Intelligence Checklist, 11/23-12/15/63, Box 1

Comments:

Doc.

No.

Document

Description

Doc.

Date

Classiff

cation

•Ho.

pp.

MR Case Number: NW 95-26. *

Page 1 of 1

Consulting Agency: CIA

Date Completed: 6/13/95

Comments

Action

Taken

1

report

President's Intelligence Checklist

11/23/63

TS/

Codeword

15

[SC-NLJ-063/95 B/1]

---

## Page 32

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

6 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

Barbara T. Blufer @ DI

CIA SPL

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer

2000

OIM/HRP

ARRB Request CIA-9: President's Intelligence Checklists

_SIONS

PULL

OFFICE:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Barbara,

Could you take a few minutes before the ARP to look at how we are handling the Checklists.

ARRB has requested 11 (Nov. 20-30); Jim Hanrahan is reviewing.

Have you finished your review of the 24 documents sent previously? If so could you bring them

with you.

The two items you gave me to review last week are not considered "assassination records"; you

can close the book on them.

The ARRB staff will not complete its review. of DI documents until the end of this week. Hopefully

they will not select many as assassination records (AR). If possible, I would like to set up coordination

session at IP. I will call you as soon as I know how many assassination records we have.

Thanks for you help.

Barry

CC:

James R. Oliver @ DA (bcc: Bonnie K. Hunter-Y-)

Sent on 6 September 1998 at 03:23:55 PM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 33

13-00000

MEMORANDUM

CIA HAS NO GSJECTION TO

DECLAGSIFIOATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF O. INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

September 12, 1998

To:

Laura Denk

Executive Director

cc:

From:

Bob Skwirot

CIA Team Leader

Michelle Combs Michelle Combs

Associate Director for Research and Review

Ben Rockwell Bar RohI

•

Analyst

Subject:

CIA-9 Publications and Analytical Materials

The Review Board's Request for Additional Records and Information CIA-9 asked the

CIA to locate CIA or Intelligence Community serial publications for the dates

immediately before and after the assassination (November 20-30, 1963), including such

publications as the President's Daly Brief, the President's Checklist, and any serial

publications related specifically to Cuba or the Soviet Union. Review Board also

requested that a search be undertaken for any analytical materials bearing upon the

assassination.

In response to the Review Board's request, the Directorate of Intelligence (DI) searched

for serial publications which might contain information of relevance to the

assassination, special or ad hoc reports pertaining to the assassination, and raw

intelligence reports on topics which might pertain to the assassination. All the material

s supplied by the Directorate of Intelligence have been reviewed by the Review Board

staff. Material within these publications, relevant to the assassination of President John

Kennedy, was designated as assassination records. Due to the sensitive and worldwide

nature of the information contained in most of these Directorate of Intelligence

publications, only material relevant to the assassination was designated as an

assassination record. These designated records will be processed and sent to the JFK

Collection at the National Archives.

The Directorate of Intelligence supplied copies of the following serial publications for

the period November 20-30, 1963 or containing information which from the period

November 20-30, 1963.

---

## Page 34

13-00000

... ...'

2

The President's Intelligence Checklist, the predecessor of The President's Daily Brief,

an all-source daily summary of intelligence information designed for the

President and a small number of high level officials.

The Daily Brief of the Central Intelligence Bulletin, a larger and more detailed all-

source publication with a wider distribution.

The Weekly Review - Office of Current Intelligence, an all-source weekly

compendium of events available on Fridays.

The Weekly Summary - Office of Current Intelligence, a more limited version of The

Weekly Review mentioned above. The Weekly Summary only contained material up

to the SECRET level.

According to the Directorate of Intelligence, only one analytical report on Cuba or the

Soviet Union, dated November 15, 1963, was issued near the relevant period. The

Review Board staff read this report but did not designate it as an assassination record.

The Review Board staff also examined The President's Intelligence Briefing Book, dated

November 26, 1963, a compendium of information on major intelligence issues affecting

the national security of the United States, which was prepared for President Lyndon

Johnson. This briefing book was not designated as an assassination record.

In addition, the DI was asked to search for intelligence reporting on anti-Castro activity

by Cuban exile groups in the United States from January 1961 - January 1964. The

Weekly Review - Office of Current Intelligence for April 5, April 12, and April 19, 1963 were

found to contain relevant information on exile raids on Cuban targets. The relevant

portions of these documents were designated as assassination records.

Finally, the Directorate of Intelligence (DI) searched for records based on subjects

supplied by the Review Board staff. The DI database is searchable only by general

subject headings assigned from a master list and coded to particular documents. This

database is not searchable by keyword. In response to the Review Board's request, the

DI supplied raw intelligence reports (not finished analytical intelligence documents) for

the period November 20 - November 30, 1963 for the USSR, Cuba, and Mexico.

Documents relevant to the assassination of President John Kennedy were designated as

assassination records.

The DI reported that there were no DI intelligence reports on the following subjects

searched at the request of the Review Board staff:

---

## Page 35

13-00000

e: \combs |cia-9wu.wpd

File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4

3

USSR and assassination

Cuba and assassination

Mexico and assassination

Minsk radio factories

Cuban training bases in Minsk

Helsinki and visas

Hotels and Moscow

Hotels and Minsk

Freighter "Marion Lykes"

---

## Page 36

13-00000

TOB BERET

14 September 1998

FOR DI REVIEW: CIA #9, [BJ Library Material

NOTE:

Review only the material outside of the blue

highlighting. Inside the blue highlighting is declared non-

relevant.

Attachments:

I. THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

(11 items, see below)

1. 20 November 1963,

pages

2. 21 November 1963, 8 pages

3. 22 November 1963, 7

pages

4. 23 November 1963, 14 pages

CIA SPECTAT COLLECTIONS

RELENTLE

...?

5. 24 November 1963, 11 pages •

6. 25 November 1963, 11 pages

7. 26 November 1963, 10 pages

8. 27 November 1963, 16 pages

9. 28 November 1963, 14 pages

10. 29 November 1963, 10 pages

11. 30 November 1963, 10 pages

II.

McCone Files:

Two items: White House Briefing for the

DCI, 7 April 1964, 6 pages; and Khanh's Data on "Population

Control," 5 May 1964, 3 pages

111.

McCone Files: Two items: re South Vietnam, 11

September 1963, 3 pages; NSC ExCom Meetong on Vietnam,

18 September 1963, 4 pages

IV. McCone Files: Two Items: The Diem Regime, 8 October

1963, 4 pages; Special OCI Memoranda on Coup Plotting in

South Vietnam, 7 October 1963.

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY WHEN SEPARATED FROM

TOP SECRET ATTACHMENTS

TOF SECRET.

---

## Page 37

13-00000

Central intelligence Agency

file copy

Washington, D.C. 20505

14 September 1998

CIA SPEC AT COLLECTIONS

SEEN POLL

2003

Ms. Laura Denk, Esquire

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street, NW

Washington, DC 20530

Reference: CIA-9, Intelligence Community Publications

on Cuba or USSR (November 20-30, 1963)

Dear Ms. Denk:

This is in response to referent request.

Searches were made for information responsive to the

request and materials were provided for examination by ARRB

From that examination, staff members selected a

number of documents to be included within the JFK

Collection.

Those documents have now been included with the

JFK Collection and are being processed for released to NARA.

This concludes the Agency's action on this request. If

you have any question, please advise.

Sincerely,

Nam-

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer

---

## Page 38

13-00000

s.. "i?»

Ms. Laura Denk,

Esquire

HRP/OIM: apa/ (14 Sep 98)

Distribution:

Original

- Addressee

1

- Subject File

---

## Page 39

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

21 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson@DCl

Barbara T. Blufer

DI/IRO

DI/IRO

Disposition of the DI/IRO on the release of Country Names in the 11

PICLs Reviewed by

Me for the ARRB

REFERENCE:

1. In light of the additional details, laying out the background of negotiations on the PICLs conducted by

< Linda Cipriani in OGC and articulated in a note to George last week--not sent to me, I concur with the

inclusion of country names of even the non-relevant titles in the text of the reviewed PICLs. It's always

easier to make appropriate decisions when one is armed with the full knowledge of the background. In

light of my very short tenure in dealing with this issue, I would appreciate in the future receiving any

background or additional information on prior negotiations that hay bearing on decisions I must make.

BB

Additionally, having that background information ahead of any review or disposition saves time and effort,

and result in the best decision not only for the DI but also for the Agency.

2. This concludes the DI action on this matter. A signed copy of this memorandum will be sent to Barry

for his records.

Lesbing-

CC:

Robert J. Eatinger@DCl

(Linda C. Cipriani@DCI

W. George Jameson@DI

(Kathleen K. Boster@DI

James R. Öliver@DA

(Michael D. Smith@DI

Sent on 21 September 1998 at 11:34:13 AM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

