# 104-10172-10264

## Page 1

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TIETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

104-10172-10264

dact

14 June 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

CIA Defector Watch List

For The Secret Serrice

by Mr. (ack Shat a 175 1 1100 hours acting stended

Friedlander, SB; Mr.

Psychlatric Staft and ar. Eskerdanos doe the cister

DCS; Dr. Jerry

as held at the CDC offices to discuss and decide which of

those defectors for whoa we have a legal responsibility should

bo watched during the BREZHNEY visit.

The Psychiatric Staff, SB and CDC had prepared

those defectors and others whom they felt were un-

predictable, unstable and/or violent.

The following are the

of those submitted (including

comments made and the

agreed on position the Agency would take):

Antanas SUTKUS (HENIGALE) was the

only defector listed by the KGB on their

BUTKUS works for the RFE in

10 Alexandria. •He is noted as being non-violent

and not likely to cause trouble.

His wife

who is studying to be a medical

assistant

is bitter

towards the soriers but also un-

likely to cause trouble.

He is

a publicized

defector.

It was decided to

pass his name

routinely to the Secret Service.

ZAVOROSKY (AEGOLD) who is in Seattle

le is the former sea Captain who is a heav

decided to pass his

ALLADLE fle

TIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

pastes

- 2-

school in Los Angeles on the 18th

ore apparently was to begi

is passive.

of June.

Ü monitor him.

He also is

On the 16th

of June (vacation) he will drive

Cape Cod to fish and relax. No problems.

E. CHALLY (Seattie) travels with an anti-

Soviet

crowd.

is unpredictable and has a

bad temper.

He shot a

cab driver in Seattle

last year.

His name will be highlighted to the

• Secret Service.

F.

Indiana!

TROFIMOV (AEFISSION Bloomington,

He is also a drunk and a passer

of

bad checks.

He is often in trouble.

CA Staff

apparently with the retirement of Jameson has 03

no contact.

When TROFIMOV is drunk he calls

the Soviets at the UN Mission and talks of re-

defection.

He may possibly be in New York now

living with two homosexual friends.

Secret

Notify the

Service.

OGANESYAN. (AEGAIN) Los Angeles.

On 14 June 1973 Mr. Negoy notified me

O| that AEGAIN, was being checked by the police in

Angeles.

This may be in connection with

H. "GOLENIENSKI (AEVISION).

He is a real

nut who aspires to the Romanoff crown. Notify

Secret Service

I. NOSENKO (AEDONOR). No passage to the

recommended that NOSENKO be added to the

list for the Secret Service (memo attached).

SECRET

IZIBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEGRET

-

= 3-

J.

"GOLITZYN (NELADLE).

Note that Mr.

Osborne

and Dr. Charles Bohrer both

agreed that

AELADLE be added to the watch list (aemos at-

lisagreed with this vienpoine. Ar. sharer o.

isagrerd with this viewpoint.

requested that I check

it out with Mr. Angleton.

Ir. Angleton later emphatically concurred with

vithholding AELADLE's name from the list.

passed this to Mr. Shaffer later in the day.

1Q x. *BIMBLI (DÉPLEBE) an Albanian who lives

in Chicago.

He is very anti-CIA but not anti-

Soviet.

No passage.

"VAGUINE (AECRUTCH) phycisist, very

stable who is doing well.

No passage.

M.

Texas.

very SHO LESTUNT) space scientist in

• He has rich

relatives in

10 Pittsburgh!

No passage. 0l

N.

"ROCHANSKI (BEGOOD) Upolish who is in

He was recruited in fOslo

He works in

the Dallas Medical Centen.d He is Vindictive and

unpredictable.

He has a son in Poland i BEGOOD DI

recently wrote President Nixon about his son.

He refuses to meet with CIA or the FBI.

It was

decided to

add his name to the list for the

Secret Service.

"SEREGIN who CIA is in touch with came

to the U.S. under the Refugee Act.

CIA has no

responsibility but we are in contact with him in

New York.

His wife is in Russia.

His name will

be passed.

the Refugee ANt.

MARININ also came into the U.S. under

contact with him in Buffalo,

name will be passed.

14IBR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

-4-

"TERESILONOV who works for Radio Liberty.

He is stable.

No passage.

Development Company No passage.

the U.S. through the IRC.

He is anti-Agency but very

stable and sober.

3.

Mr. Friedlander and I were in agreement on all the

cases.

He backed me up on AELADLE, AEDONOR and those other

defectors in whom we had invested large suns of money, time

and effort to conceal.

placed in the 201 files

Of AELADLE

AEDONOR

• 01

03

Emest J. Isikerdanos?

SA/C/CI/OPS

Attachments: As stated

Aran.

5/BR

---

## Page 5

14-00000

6302)

1.

Dr. Charles Bohrer

recomme=is (subject to Howard

Osborne's concurrence)

that the the sellering defectors

be added to the Brechner visit naior list:

natolly GOLITaIN (AsualE). Delusions of

much more fror. ate U.S. Government than

fact receired. in terns of perscaal

recognition.

trated, reclusive. May tale some sotica to "get even „irus-

Yuri NOSSENKO (AEDONDA). lot seriously neurotic,

but because of the way in which he sas handled he has reason

to be vengeful,

and may take the brezkner visit as an oppor-

tunity to embarrass us.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

1. Howard Osborn's recommendations for the Brezhnev

"watch list":

well disposed toward CIA and

Delete NOSSENKO. He's happily rehabilitated,

a threat.

the USG, well adjusted. Not

b. GOLENIEWSKI. Absolutely nutty.

Put him at

the

top of the list.

He hates the

Soviet Government because

it's depriving him

of the Romanov crown jewels.

Anatolly GOLITZYN. Agree with Bohrer. Put

him on the list.

---

