# 104-10216-10159

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10216-10159

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSÄSSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• UNCLASSIFIED

FERNAL

val ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON' ENTIAL

EX' SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTRACION

C/TSD/EB

10% 1O deignarion, room cumber, and

C/WH/SA/MOB/PH

GH4408 Hdqrs.

DATE

REGIMED

¡FORMANDED

3.

WHISA/Ec8/Wamought

Cotti

W

то

DATE

24 June 1964

COMMENTS eat a da do at on too man

то лют.

Sashnell 1.3x

Inace in (apon.

w/w distributeni

all have eaglish macker;

1169t 105 400447ere bendeenas

5.

6.

000 etche

Sale, no Manes +04(s tkacbaneitasted+0-79-9930

8.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

2-62

seems like a bock pote

Tus.

610 TAEN I SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

•

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•166

He do

the it

w22E09214

-1-9

SEGRET

24 June 1964

MENORANDUM FOR: C/WH/SA/MOB/PM

SUBJECT

: Improved Sight for 7.62 Belgium (PAL) Rifle

REFERENCE

a) Memo for the Red. dated 25 May 64

Subject:

"FAL Silencer/Sights", fro

C/HH/SA/MOB/PH

is provided:

In accordance with reference a) the following material

Three open rear sight hoods for the subject rifle.

b) Three coples of instructions for installing the

sight and zeroing the rifle.

c) Three tool kits containing an adjustment screw

driver and two files.

d) 400 rounds of improved underloaded ammunition with

cream of wheat filler.

(Boxes marked with red strip.

These should be substituted for the rounds already

delivered).

2. It must be understood that the limited time available

would not permit more that cursory acceptance testing and the

superiority of this sight over the standard unit has not been

definitely established.

could not be devised which was interchangeable with any FAL

without extensive modification to the weapon.

For additional information regarding-this matter con-

tact D. J. Hogan or D. R. Dunn on extension 3319.

ERHARDT

Chief

TSD/Engineering Branch

Attachments: As Stated

Distribution:

1 - Addressee

1 - TSD/SDB

1

- C/TSD

1 - EB-81J

SECHET

Deniece ears a carone side doze

03.81

Estosad 1138187416

(startasin

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SNAP-ON SIGHT HOOD FOR

THE 7.62 BELGIUM (FAL) RIFLE

The sight hood snaps over the existing rear sight on

the 7.62 Belgium (FAL) rifle.

It is designed to raise the rear

sight to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the under-

loaded annunition and is an open sight for increased night sighting

capability.

The sight hood is oriented with the three screws facing

the muzzle end of the rifle (See attached drawings).

down on the hood until the ball detent snaps into the peep hole

3.

The slot for the existing rear sight is made tight

so that the hood will fit firmly in place.

If it fails to fit,

file the existing rear sight as necessary.

If the sight fits

set screw on the

sight hood.

4.

The weapon must be zeroed on a known distance firing

range to determine

the sight settings and proper sight picture

for standard and underloaded ammunition when using the hood.

the only adjustments possible are those already on the rifle.

(That is, elevation control using the graduated ramp and windage

control by adjustment of the two locking screws at the base of

the existing rear sight dovetail.)

NOTE:

It is very important to hold the rifle the same way each

time so that the relation of the eye to the rear sight

remains constant.

The user must determine his own zero

for each rifle and hood combination and naximur effective

range for each ammunition type.

10A118

20545+2

---

## Page 4

14-00000

FRONT VIEW

---

## Page 5

14-00000

".?

tmiiciin

i i sonatra

REAR VIEW

actiauai toes ticait (4604-35560

---

