# 104-10180-10215

## Page 1

104-10180-10215

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

то

DISPATCH

Chief, Brecia

SECRET

_FHOCESSING

Atim

flairs: toff

!і

"ADVANCE

ТАОм

Chief uf Station, rAlly!!?'.

COPY

DO 196CR'N6 TRUiNCO

суіт в цита

MATE ARTERS DESE

¡ ABSTRACT

To Are

SUBHET

Operational/GYPOCE/A IRDAN: LEN/AuFOX ..

•.

NT Derator Cancionis Inice Fariet Arca.

ACTON REQUIRED. ADDRENCES

rit.

Pequired: Penuest for Headquarters Pevier of Files - Mara

O 1960 AMEREEI (Peter S. DI CEPYENO)

It operater candidate,

whose nare he

This candidate nas spotted and

finst contacted by AlPANICol, nho passed the lead over to

AYTMiIC-1

first contacted the candidate on the porch

of the erdl'ercedes tenz Arency at Palecon and Principe Streets.

anandan vose streets.

This building had i store in the first

1oor, was painted a pinkish beige,

and the apartments were

very arall (one herroon and bath,

living-dining room corbina-

subject was at the tine working in

glasses, light corplexion, lipit

Subject had experience

as a professinnal VT operator

worked a

clandestine "T set for

tie Arganizacion sutentica??

(DA) avainst the satista revine.

AXPANIC-I was a comber of the

E8 and rotted in feet through a leader of the (CA) for whor

Subject worked in the underground.

subject was trained for a

safonouse located at de San Pafnel here which hed been

50 by AMaLEN-l in a

that purpose ly APrOX-1.

AFOX-l attended the training

sessions as a look-out.

but neither 1''F0Y-1 nor AMCLEN-I kneW

the identity and

address of the traince.

Training included the

clandectine operation of a

RS-1, the use of signal plans, the

of pade in couine. and cecodin?,

and personal security.

Training

was conducted in the fall of 19fn after recruitment of subject.

and with the approval of cO Ceorge D. SCOPCORY,

who was AutRy

On at the time

and to whon full reforts

were turned in on the

(Continued

Distribution:

3 - lieadquarters

¡ CROSS RESURENCE TO

NATI

Letter too triests

497507886199

excicates

russeatson

CECPET

CATE TIPEO

25 Jan. f3

ORNION STADO: NO NUMBER

UFCA-7439

HENCCUNATERS MUE MATMBLE

19-120-33-5413

DATE DRSPATCHED

1953

A/pS

---

## Page 2

LUNTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECPFT

11578-7431

trainins ard t'e

Identity of the candlento.

ju! joct was nover

stand-ly for possille use at a laser

trat curiose tora flues here establiched ly M'OrDl

and reportod to lis

subject uan not suiplied with a XToot

and no sirngt sions nor faus were issued in bla.

NiHistl recalls Subject was very secure in his clandestine

contacts and

Despite e:tal-lished bona fides, AlrI-l

ho considerable trouble in rainino subject'e confidence. and al

thuce preliminary contacts tere necesram selore rettin doun

last contacted by AUgEal at Subject's

spartaent described above.

in January or renfuary 1961. At

this time subject was still willing and readr to work.

A a latore on reported y are

Is assuned. that Head,uarters files on the activities, or

reports and information reportod by Aéprefoples of the training

He would appreciate

Headquarters assistance in ascertainins subject's identity and

present s'horestouts in order to determine if he could still be

used onerationally inside

Marret ared.

A'PANIC-l has been

erminated by JMiAVE fil Branch because of weakness in his persona

auer ye possibles belleved best not to contact him on thi

END OT CISPATCHI

USE PREVIOUS POITION

I caress

RAVENO

• 2.

GIV

---

