# 104-10073-10101

## Page 1

1704-10073-10101

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CHAOS, BR091A1 ASSALIE StATI

OLASRIPICATION

"HAS

tigis

195

PROCESBINO

ACTION

BARKED FOR MOCKIM

HO TROCHIS PROUINED

ORELY QUALIFITO

HZADQUART:90 DE8X

CAN MOOL INDOXIMA

ABITRACT

MICROFILM

AcçöM,

AKR

Cutes of Station, JMHAVE

OPERATIONAL/ TYPIC/AMFAUNA

DATIALINE OL AMPAUNA-14

Aotion Requirad: For Your Information

Following are the results

of tie debriefing of ALAUNA-14 in

the JMWAVE aros from 22 November to 2 December 1963.

AHPAUNA-14 did not leave her apartment all day Sunday, 6 Oct.

fa Honday,

?- October, she went to work as usual.

When she arrived, she

found a lotter waiting for her which had been forwarded to her office

{son hor accommodation address; it was in AMPAUNA-l's handwriting and

contained nothing of any interest, so she was sure there was a secret

welting mossage on 1t.

At 1255 hours two men arrived at the office, one about 45 years

old and short, who from his appearance might have been a bug driver,

Bnd the other

a very young dark-akinned man.

They walkod sato the

office vestihule and told

the guard that they wanted to see AMFAUNA-14.

too man followed right behind.

They told AMFAUNA-14 that she

come with them to identify an

arrested person.

AMFAUNA-14 said that

she would have to ask her supervisor for permission to leave, because

1t vas not yet closing time.

She turned to go back into the office,

and the two men followed her in.

The supervisor told her that it

AMFAUNA-14's father and uncle,

both of whom work in the same office, asked whether they could come

rich her.

The men said no, because she would be coming right back;

they said they were taking her to "G-?" headquarters in La Vibora.

FOUCH

NO FIE

Continued.

TROLATION

7.61

Distribution:

Orig & 2 - Chiel, SAS

Background To only,

Do Not Reproduce f

INDEX-X

19-6-56/3

CS COPY

DATE TYPED

CORONE RESURENCE TO - .

nii-5-1

9 Dec 1963

DIAPATON SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA- 12894

ARTERS TILE NUMBEA

BECR

T

Esctuded troo doron

• 034947261n;, 101

ce lassilication

19-6-50/3

RETURN TO CIA

$09748

---

## Page 2

14-00000

not let her.

She did, however, nanage to destroy a page fron her note-

book containing telephone numbers.

DIE headquarters in Villa Mariatas, AMFAUNA-14 WAS

turned over to a militiawoman who had her atrip and periormed & body

soston on her.

She was fingerprinted and photographed and her biographac

data wore taken down, after which she was locked in a cell which had

an adjoining private

bath. Nothing else of importance happened for

the rest of the day.

by then tire te score:

During her four-day detention periohn cious ecl

AMFAUNA-14 was handled

INTERRELARE

с. /ч. с - 13н

TIMERIT

752901-374687

Prancisco & ABAD:

ANFAUNA-14 believes that this Is his

хові паше.

He did not Introduce himself, but she saw the name on her

rolease papers which he signed.

He was born about 1918 and in about

B'A" tall, weighs about 160 pounds, and has a fat build, aquiline nose,

groeniah eyes, dark skin; grey-brown wavy hair, rough laborer's hands,

and two teeth

algarettes,

missing from the lower jaw.

He smokes both cigars

his manner was soft and kindly,

and AHFAUNA-14 belleves

ha la probably poorly educated.

He is married, but AMFAUNA-14 did not

learn whether he has children or what his address in. He wears civ1l1as

slothes and drives a black 1956 Pontiac with a grey roof. Discussing

Ala man later in the AMCOG household, AHFAUNA-14 was told by Pedro

CARRILLA (RhO 1E a brother of Just CARRILLO) that Pedro knows ABAD.

locording to Pedro, -

I ABAD Is part Jewish and an old Communist who worked

be tita Hayan Underground en behalf of Fidel CASTRO during the Batista

sartade

Pedro CARRILLO thinks that ABAD may now have some regrets

about the course he has taken.

"Carlog" aka "Samuel": AMFAUNA-14 does not know hie true

was born about 1j4% or

perhaps a little earlier.

about s'8" tall, weighs about 150 pounds, and has a muscular build;

drooping eyelids, light olive skin, wavy chestnut hair with a widows

is a nervous pacer, and walks with his head bent forward and

tiltod slightly to one side..

An expression which he frequently used

нав "О.E."

pronounced "OKAH" with the accent on the firat syllable.

He told AHFAUNA-14 that he had been a student in the Commercial School

of Havana, that he had worked clandestinely under the Batista regime,

had been arrested by Col, Esteban VENTURA Novo, had been released due

of his father, and had gotten out.of the country with

the ald of the Méxican Ambassador to Cuba, coming then to the United

He drives a 1959 black and white Chevrolet Corvair, wears

and carries a pistol, sometimes a .45 and sometimes

She thinks he

boon sonewhat superior in rank,

although this was never clearly evident,

Thera poenad to be a little professional jealousy between the two men.

If she told one man something which she had been unable to remember

or the other, the second would show signg of jealousy or resentment.

"Carlos" subsequently told AMPAUNA-14 to phone 61-4319 and ask for

"Samuel" then she wanted to reach him. She phoned him at this number

about ten times in all: The phone was alwaye angwered by the same

unasa, excopt for once when a boy answered and then called for his

asther to come and take the phone.

AMFAUNA-14 would ask for "Samuel"

and the woman would invarlably reply that he was not there.

AMFAUNA-

14 would then ask the woman to take a message for him to please call

"Dolores. "

The woman would always reply "Yes, Comrade."

Discussing

The physical defer Tot on ""arlos" does not

natch that oi januel RODILES Plana.

ACARCANO AFRUJO, JATTOR 17, CABAbLAnCA, HAVAna.

WAVE traces on this

SEX-ICITICETA

PHONE CONTACT FIR

FAUTNO.

"sea

UAE PREVIOUA BDITION.

SCRET

MALANA

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

'no do a quad

+ Uoun-18009

DAnO InaludO HCBA-09898 01 83 April 1983 showing, that one Maria CARCANO

Arujo (born 7 Decenbor 1935) travelled to Chile in March and April 1963

on a diplonatio passport.

An AMOT report of 2l September 1982 mentiona

One AstORIa CARCANO AraUjO as a communiat In charge of vigilance, and

11vlng at o7 Artos st.

Casablanca.

Thero also appoara to bo a Maria

ARAUJO (born about 1908) who 1a an old-timo Communiot 11v1ng at Artes

11• AMTAUNA-l has boon given the namen of several former residents of

tula poighborhood in hopes of finding a ralativa of the cArcano or

ARANJO RAllIOs MhOse physical description matchos that of "Carlos."

AMPAUNA-I hRS EINO

Intervlowed Col, VENTUAl In the HAVE aros. VENTURA

ranenbors cano sintlar to that of "Carlon" but does not renomber the

bog'a nasa.

Ho says that he moons to ronumber that the boy'u father

wan conneoted with one Jose LOPEZ villaboy (on whom WAVE hai numeroun

traces) and

that be man agalated in getting to Mexico baoxian

(o) Enu Inu:

This man appeared a lew tlues during AKFAUNA-

1d's Interrogation.

Ühe never hoard his name at this time,

but later

san bla on televialon Interrogating AMslari-d and he was Ident11l0d

¿bon sa Jose Antonio *FERNANDEZ Menert.

She doog. not believe that this

e hla trus name, beguuse It 18 her underatanding that diE officore use

algases in their public appearances.

He 1e about J'11" tall, slendor,

with darklab skin and black hair combed straight back.. He has tery

largo graon cold eyes.

Re was born about 1939 and appeara to be un-

suontee, sith a cynical and vulgar manner. He weare civillad clothes.

AHAKOMA.

At about 1600 or 1700 hours on Tuenday, 8 October,

ANFAUNA-14

was brought into MaAD'e office for her firet intervlow.

ABAD began

by anxine 11 she know why she was there.

AMFAUNA-14 replied that she

had so 1 des.

ABAD observed that that was strange, because he had

Judsed her to bo en able and entelligent won, cana tset bas? 50

honently belleving that the might have been denounced by the

JoalOus M110 of her lOver, MAnUelf*COMPANIONI, AMFAUNA-14 BUggeStOO

that It sight tire pestonel natter: drEader

CELINEGRO

DC:13: <192%

ABAd sald that it wes not.

He then sked her if she knof chedc

LUIS BrAULIOS VILLAR Negret.

AMPAUNA-14 Bald that she did not.

Bald that this was atrango,

because VILLAR Negret know her.

He asked

11 she know one Angel *BRINGAS, AMPAUNA-14 sald that she did. ABAD

A Jertile factory neao inve 106 a Me anys

ANPAUNA-14 Bald that she knew the man as lute NEGREW and had

sot socognised the sane VILLAR Negrot.

GUEL. INOAN 10

CHANT ARENAS

ABAD told AMFAUNA-14 that NEGRET was then under detention hid

had laplloatod AMPAUNA-14 In his confession. ABAD wanted to know what

AMPATHA-14'& conneCtion WIth NEGRET had been. AMFAUNA-14 Bald that

wadsit had boon in hor house once, and once in her mother's.

13. At this point 'In the interrogation, MBAD was called away and

AMPAUHA-14 was returned to her cell. Two hours later the Interrogation

vas robunod.

i. All picked up where he had loft off, and askod AHPAUNA-14

nat connection she had had with Angel BRINGAS.

ANFAUNA-14 Bald that

sho had known BRINGAS no better than whe had known NEGRET.

ABAD said

that sho was lying and urgod that she cooperato.

AMFAUNA-14 promiaed

that she would cooperato.

ABAD Bald that NEGRET had told the DiE that

AMPAUNA-14 had had soxual relations with BRINGAS, and ANFAUNA-14 denied

tho allogation.

14g- The Interrogation was again interrupted, and AMPAUNA-14 waB

rotunded to bor coll.

When she roturnod to the interrogation roos,

she saw that ABAD had an envelope containing what she recognized to be

papora takon fros bor apartuent, including alrline passenger manifebte,

soosphoring astorial, instructions for using the dociphering material,

ADd Insurance policion and personal papers belonging to AMPAUNA-1.

AXHAUNA-14 now reallzed that it was time for her to pretend to

CLABRIPICARION

102 89a vARparvIOUe RDITION.

BECRET

..

ts..

*:

---

## Page 4

14-00000

cooporato with the Dis, as ANPAUNÀ-1 had briefed hor to do in such à

altuation.

18. ABAD logan by tolling her that she wan in a very serious

situation;

because he know that she had had very closo connections

vith a SUBARk agent.

ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-1 was identical with

"диl1O." AMPAUNA-1A sald that AMFAUNA-1 had been known as "Jul10."

AlAD then wanted to know whether NäGRET had been working with "Jullo."

AXTAUKA-14 desiod this.

ABAD askod whether NEGRIT had known "Jullo."

AKTAURA-14 donled this too,

but volunteered the information that "Jullo

had provided NIORiT with mall

1a0111t108, und that AMFAUNA-14 had been

the outout botween then.

Did NEGRIT know uf "Jullo's" existance, ABAD

vantod to know.

Nandit mall and soney which she had gotten from

wa1d up fron hin and delivered it to "Julin," but that NEGRIT had

Dagor known "Jullo'a" identity.

16, The truth about AXPAUNA-lA's relatIOns with NEGRET and BRINGAS

according to her statements to her KUBARK case Officer in November 1063

1a the JHRAVE aTOR, 1S as fOllOWS:

(A) In about Mid-196%, AMCOG-S DEKed ANFAUNA-14 to serve a8

cutout between herself and an unidentified agent, and AHFAUNA-14

ANFAUNA-14 was driven to the meeting aite, which was on the

sidewalk in front of a toxtile factory

near Calle 100 in Marianao, Dy

a Spaniard named

This agent introduced

bossell to him an an employee of an unidentifled embassy.

purposes, "El Negro" gave her the telephone number 29-4900 or 20-4900.

(b) Later,

when AMFAUNA-14 began to truat "El Negro" more,

aho gave hia the telephone number of her mother.

MRl Ragn'A" triA namo MaA tilla PrAllIO VTLIAR NegrAt., and that he

livod In a anall room in the roar of the textile lactory.

The telephone

number which he had given her was always answered by a woman whose

demo ahe learned to be "Maxinina."

(c) VILLAR Negret was born about 1928, and was about 5'11"

tall with broad shouldore and a strong build. He had black wavy half,

brow eyes, an ollve askin, and a lace marked by acne. AHFAUNA-14

never learned anything about his family directly from him, but DSE

offfoors told her that he was married with one child, and.

peronta lived On a tara in PinaS del RiO PrOXicansa

3UR). 151

that hhe i^

(a) VILLAR Negret was a nember of Til Accol evolucionaria

Donocratica, which MiAUnA-14 understands to be a succesgor organizatios

to the AAA of AurelIano SANCHEZ Arango, He had formorly belonged to

so sotion component of this organization, but more recently had de-

novotod hingell to intelligance collection.

and picked up him Intelligene

PAEZ IRAHANIELA,US

The last contact which AMFAUNA-14 had had with

I Hogro? was in nid Boptember 1063 when he passed her a report which

Is Colombia.

(0)

Once when

HOOt MIth AMPAUHA-14.

ThIS COUBIn WAS AngOLABRINGAS, an eMpLOYee O

on various other subsequent occasions

BRINGAS Filled in

MA. INFE. ON SUOU. PROVIDED BY 201-372675

According to what the DIE officers told her, "el Negro"

was arrested about 1 October and was to be shot.

AMrAUNA-14 asked her

IBB Interrogatory whether 1t would not be poseible to reindoctrinate

"31 Nosto" inntead of shoot hin, but they told her that it was not

vorth the trouble because "El Negro" was a person of low morals who

GLASOIPICATION

PAGE NO.

UAE PREVIOUS EDITION.

BECRET

CONTINUED

---

## Page 5

14-00000

be shown to Angol BRINGAS when und 1I lo do caught.

(8) On 18 or 13 October 1983, after AHFAUNA-14 had been o-

loanod, she was tolephoned at her place of employment 'by Angel BRINGAS

uno told hor guardodly that "El Negro" had been arrested and sald that

ho sould like to sand a sonalo cousin of his to talk to Alpauna-le. A

mooting was arrangod in the home of AlPaula-ll'a mother...

The faaalo

(the ANCOGS) could holp his got into anylin. AHFAUNA-14 snid that whe

doubted this.

"Qladys" told AMFAUNA-14 that, 1n case 1t more posalblo

to do anything for BRINGAS, she should tclephone "Gladys" with an

Innocent messago.

It was understood that a meeting would take place it

1000 hours on the sane day of the telephune

call at the Ten Cent Store

aird betwoon 10th and 18th in Vedado.

AMRAUNA-14 does not remember

Gladys' tolophone number which was left with her mother.

In spite of what AMFAUNA-14 told the DSE, AMFAUNA-1 had

had nothing to do uith NBGRET.

AMFAUNA-14 had told this story to pro-

toot ANcar 8.

NEGRET had known that Alcus-? was involved, and had once

had a nooting with her in her home.

Nevertheless, AMFAUNA-14 briefed

ancor-s on the cover story which she had told the Dig and told her that,

In case she vere ever arrested and questioned, she should admit having

talked to NiGRat in her home, but deny having been involved in the

conmunicatione channel or knowing anything about it.

Station Comment: Luis Braullo VILLAR Negret appearg to be

Idont1oa1

WIEh Luis "NEGRE Villar (born 4 November 1930 in Consolacion

del Sur,

Pinar del R1o), who 1s carded as ACSI source No. 492 and

In AMBUD correspondence as National Coordinator of the Accion

RovolucIonaria Denocratica.

"El Guajiro Bermudez" appears to be iden-

toal #1th carardo Jose *QUESADA Vasquez (201-292032) (born & May 1919,

ünar del i10), President and founder of Accion Revolucionaria Democratida

йай добі Битос мо.

Vard no 105 fave calephone drectory na no latina do -evas

on Angel BRINGAS.

SU-AUVU 18 LIATOO TO MAIAOITLADALUS AKI NE #ALLI, MATIANAR; JAWAVE

has no tracon on him.

178, ка Reпpа.)

281-332625

ABAD appeared to be particularly interested in how NEGRET and

"Julio" obtained their funde, and kept returning to thie subject during

the interrogation,

ABAD then addressed himself to the contente of the envelope

and a aultcase sound in AMFAUNA-14's apartment.

He conmented that all

these things appeared to belong to AMFAUNA-1 and his son, and asked how

they happened to be there.

AMFAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1 and his

вод, togother with AMFAUNA-3, had been hiding for a few days in her

apartuant because their usual hiding place had become unavailable.

10. ABAD wanted to know how and when AMPAUNA-14 had first wet

ANTRAUDA- 1.

AMPAUNA-14 replled that she had met AMFAUNA-1 in about

fobruary 1982, that AMFAUNA-1 had regularly parked his car in a lot near

hor office and that they had seen each other on the street frequently,

that ANPAUNA-I had finally apoken to her, and that a friendahip had:

dovelopod which finally turned into a love affair.

(Comment: This was

allo told to conceal the fact that it had been ANCUTlüiFi who had in-

troduced ther.)

July 1908 when she broke up with him because he was too busy with

clandestine nork to pay the proper amount. of attention to her.

80.

ABAD asked what part AMPAUNA-14 had played in AMPAUNA-l'8

clandestino sctivitios.

AMPAUNA-14 replied that AHFAUNA-1, would some-

times tolephone her late at night to invite her to go out for a ride,

and the would then find that AMPAUNA-1 was golng out to have agent

nestlaga and wanted her along for cover.

ABAD asked whom AMFAUNA-1 had

bonD sooting.

AMPAUNA-14 mentioned a person known an "Gustavo" and

GLARCIPICATION

F00 890

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SRGRET

MAR

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION O!

DI PATCH.

.BECR.ET..

UFGA-12884

out of Cuba.

(She nover knew AMFAUNA-24'e true name.) She also montioned

HaDOLO AVILLAMANAN, the true name of AMPAUNA-13 (whom she: had known

only as AMPAUNA-l's business partner but when she thought she could

safoly nontion now that he maa out of cube:

for good measure she added

a sotional name and phyaical description.

81. Rosorring back to AMFAUNA-l's automobile, ABAD asked what

bind of a car he had driven.

AMFAUNA-14 replied

that 1t wag a gray

Chevrolet Impala.

She repeated that AMFAUNA-1 had formerly parked it

but said that she had not sen lt recently.

ABAD commented that the DSE had observed AMPAUNA-1 1n hig

with anothor person.

saund-&", and that he and AlfuANA-l had rendezvoused in the dock area

aftor nn attempt to pick up AlFAUNA-l's radio.

With reference to the KUBARK agent known as "Jullo", whom

AlAD aald Chat he kner

gone to turope, but he sald he did not know whether "Jullo" had gone

olandestinoly or legally.

840 AMPAUNA-14 wan asked about AMFAUNA-l's subaources in other

provinces, but she muld she knew nothing about them.

ABAD said he was

suro that ANPAUNa-l had a gond anurra no the tale ne pinas.

WhORA WAT

nano algat bo "Raul".

ABAD also mentioned the name of & person who had

boon shot about two weeks previously and who he belleved had been work-

108 WIth ANPAUNA-1. (AMFAUNA-14 does not remember the name of this

35. ABAD asked 11 AMPAUNA-l's son had helped him in this clandeg.:

tine pork.

I FAUNA: 14. replied that the son had been with AMFAUNA-

frogrently,

out that ahe thought it was only because he was helpin

AMPÄUNDal with his buelnese and that the son probably had had nothing

to do with clandestine work.

28. ABAD again turned to the envelope of papera found in AMFAUNA-1418

apartsont, and nald he could see she was not cooperating with hin.

She

was not volunteoring information, he sald, but waiting to be anked

quentions.

ABAD sald he was sure that there was much that AMPAUNA-14

could toll hin spontaneously, and he intimated that there might be a

shance for her to rehabilitate hersell.

87.

ABAD asked her where the passenger liate came from. AMPAUNA-14

senlled that they had been left in her apartment by AHPAUNA-1, who

Intended to Instruct her later by sw what to do with them.

Bbe maid

that AMPAUnA-l had trained her in this systen, and had left ber bis

astorials, so that he could une her an a stop-gap communications liak

Mallo ho vas tryine to roorganize hia net.

SIT SUARTET 150186

28. ABAD told her that this was plainly not true, becauso some of

the

Ilota vero datod later than AMFAUNA-l's departure date.

He said he

posed they had been brought to AMPAUNA-14's apartuent by, AMCUTLER-2,

o had bean observed coning thore on 3 October with Lolidolla CORREÖSO

Tale vas true, according to AMPAUNA-14.

ANCUTLER-2 and

hed brought the passenger nanifests to AMPAUNA-14'a hOure at about 1630

or 1700 hourg on 5 October, and had stayed about fifteen minutes.

AT

ANTAUNA-14 had had a mooting with AMPAUNA-39,

tho s1rot 1n two weeks,

1400 bours that sane da initiated by AMPAUNA-39 by meana of a telophone

call to AMPAUNA-l's nother who was serving as cutout between then.

AMPAINA-39 had called the neeting to ask whether she had recolved any

Instructions srom alaunal as to how to, act in case or an laternal

prulee, which a number of people in Cuba seemed to be expecting about

that tina do a rooult of the dostrustalla, causad by Hurricane plarno.

AREN

RE

GAND

---

## Page 7

14-00000

(the De interioratore nevor at any timo mentioned AMPAUXA-30, or Ánkod

hor about this enrllor mootide, so AMPAUNA-14 concludes that she had not

boon undor intonaive survelllance that day; elther AlCUTLER-? had been

under surveillance on 5 October, or she hersell had been under some kind

of periodio apot chock:)

ARAN ARKOd AMFAUNA-L4 how she had become accuainted with

ARCUTLER-8, and AMPAUNA-14 repliod that she had met AMCUTLER-2 through

ANFAUNA-1S, the MISO O1 a COURIN O1 ANFAUNA-14 WhO is a priBOner On the

tale of Pines.

so.

ABAD then asked AMFAUNA-l& where her sw materiala were, which

surprised AHPAUNA-l4 because she had thought they had been found during

nor house soarch and were part of the incriminiting envelope which ABAD

was holding.

AMPAUNA-14 told ABAD where in look for the materials, and

ho sent sonobody to get them.

31. ABAD wanted to know how AMFAUNA-i and AMFAUNA-3 haú gotten out

of cube.

AMFAUNA-14 asid she did not know.

She said she understood they

sore to get their instruction on the street once they had left her apart-

ABAD abruptly asked AMFAUNA-14 whether she knew anybody in

ABAD then produced a photograph

Of AMPAUNA-14 together with AMAUNA-1 and AMWEB-29 and told her that she

had boon in Alhea-2's home In Luyano with AMFAUNA-1 on Saturday, Y September

He anked AMFAUÑA-14 whether lAMWER-? were employed in an embassy.

It said the did not know but that she thought so.

ANFAUNA-

She gaid she knew

dAllass to be a peraonal friend of AMFAUNA-1, and thought that he might

cocasfonally have helped AHFAUNA-1 with his mail.

(It was true that

ALPAULA-14 had gone to AMHEB-Z's hOuse on? September with AMPAUNA-1.

iator the sane day ANFAUNA-1,jtook hor to Miramar to introduce her to

two OCE

juicooi iN ANFAURiÁ-32,

AMFAUHA-l4 concluded that they had not observed this meeting, and that

Soptonbar and not herself of

She also concluded that the DSE

had boon inefficient in not transferring their gurveillance to herself:

and ARPAURA-1.)

38.

ABAD again' changed the subject suddenly.

"Where is the radio?"

ho aakod.

have 1t?"

AMFAUNA-14 sald she did not know::

anything about a radto.

"Could AMtsE-" "There in the camera?" asked ABAD. AMPAUNA-14

admittod having seen AMPAUNA-1 with a Minox camera, but said she did not

know what AHPAUNA-1 had done with it.

She said she had hoped that

ARPAURA-1 would leave it with her, and pretended to be hurt that he had

not done so. ABAD asked her whether she had ever seen one like it in

the iscod house, and AMFAUNA-14 said that she had.

Throughout the

IntorrOgAtIon, ABAD kept reverting to the subject of the camera and the

34.

family.

ABAD asked AXPAUNA-Id what her connection was with the ANCOC

the ropliod that her grandnother was the cousin of AlCOG-3's

ABAD paid that the whole lanily had been under observation for

which ANCOG? had worked with during the Batista era.

ho wanted to knon, was ANCOG 3 doing.

ANFAUNA-14 sald that she did not

think ho was doing anything clandestine.

ABAD replied that the dsE is

positive. that ANCOR-3 was doing secret work.

AHPAUNA-14 Bald that the

Dslty@hould.not delude Itsell,

that the entire fanily was too selfish to

ongage in inything of the kind.

38.

ABAD asked what the diplomatlc visitore to the ANCOG household

talk about.

lcund-l4 nald that they never talk politica

ABAD asked

about the attitudo of"the Doctor" (ANCOG-3'& uncle), and AHFAUNA-14 Ba1.

that ho was walting for the altuation to settle.

"that about AHYAUNA-3?" asked ABAD.

"Did she dork with

ANFAUHA-18"

AHPAUNA-14 Bald that she did not, but that she sometimes

‚GLAGDIPICATION

SECRBT

7/M

---

## Page 8

14-00000

DUDIANTURINAL.

DISPATCH

BECRET:

54. | •UFGA-12894

had boen Iovolved sonehow with hor sister who jives in florida.

asked whether ANTAUNA-14 had been a good friend of AMFAUNA-3,

maid that she had been. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had ever heard

ANTAUNA-S spoak about the Escambray insurgents, AMPAUNA-14 said that

ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-3 had had contacts with any

oabassy poople, for example the Spanish Embassy, AMFAUNA-14 aald that

she did not know of any such contacts.

37.

"How abcut ANCUTLER-Z?" asked ABAD.

"We know that she spends

• lot of time thore."

AMFAUNA-l4 Bald she did not know.

38. ABAD Asked AMFAUNA-14 1f she were a revolutionary, AMPAUNA-14

sald that she was not, but that neither was the againet the revolution.

She said that she had Joined the militla early in the revolution;

had noos dropped out because there were some things about the revolution

whied she did not understand.

For instance, she could not undergtand

why thore should be so many shortages and rationing, whereas before the

rovolution there had been plenty.

ABAD explained that the shortages

the result of the imperialist blockade of Cuba, AMFAUNA-14 said that

she could understand this, but that it did not explain why there should

on a shortana or coiiee when Cuba grew its own:

ABAD said that coffee

nas in short supply because Cuba was sending coffee to the Soviet Union

In gratitude for Soviet assistance in overcoming shortages cauged by the

Inporsaliat blockade.

AMFAUNA-14 replied that this was very logical

now that it had been explained to her,

and said she wondered why the

revolutionary government did not publicly say so in order to put an end

to public grumbling on the subject.

Rarly in the morning of 9 October,

ABAD produced the letter

which AMFAUNA-14 recelved from AMFAUNA-1 on 7 October and held up the

lotter to the light, examining it carefully for traces of sw.

AMPAUNA-

she was unable to get a good look at.

disappointed when no secret writing appeared.

They kept asking her 1f

sho were sure she was doing it right, and began intimating that she was

deceiving them.

(Station Comment: It is indeed surprising that no

secret uriting appeared, because this letter was almost undoubtedly the

one containing 8# message no. l to AMFAUNA-14.)

AMPAUNA-14 also explained the use of her carbons.

The only

accommodation addreas she gave away was AMTAUNA-l's JMWAVE area post

office box.

She deliberately protected the Rosa JUstIZ address. (the

home of AMPAN-2), not knowing whether this wae area or a fictitious

41.

"Carlos" and ABAD now invited AMFAUNA-14 to work with them. She

ropliod that she might be willing to do so, but first wanted to know

what nork would be expected of her.

For instance, she said, she would

not inform on paople in har offico.

They told her that this would not

bo asked a hor, because that sort of work la done by the Defense

Comittoos. Her work, they said,

would be much more important, namely

saintaining a link between themselves and KUBARK.

She said that would

bo all' right, but she was afraid that it would not last long because

sUBAld would probably put her on ice as soon as they learned that she

had been arrested. They told her not to worry about that.

12.: "Carlos" and ABAD suggested to her that AlPAUNA-I had briefed

hor to agree to cooperate with them.

She denied this, claiming that she

had not really wanted to work with AHFAUNA-1 at all,

but had merely let

borsoll be iuposed on for old times sake.

They asked whether they

She said she thought so, and asked whether she could

trust then to keep their promises.

They assured her that she could,

and said the would be released the following day.

43. In the morning of 10 October, after being told that she was

to

be ruleisod, AMPAUNA-14 was moved to a smaller cell without a bath.

She

sent for ARAD and complained that he had double-crossed her.

He told

ODUCTI

UPV.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

ELAGUIHTEATION

CONTINUATION OT

DISPATCH '

SBCRET

BIODATON UNDOL AND NUMULA

UFGA - 12894

hor that ho was going to keep his word and releane her, but that her

original coll was needod for some new prisoners who were expected.

He

Bald that the Dig had recelved advance word that a boatload of refugees

nato foing to try to leavo Cuba that night.

Many of them were women,

and one of thore was proghant, so he wante the larger cell with bath

for them.

ABAD Always trented AMFAUNA-14 kindly and considerately.

when she had a headache, he ordered aspirin for her.

Hersaw to it that

she rocelved goft drinks when she wanted them, and he seemed to be

honestly distressed whenever she weft.

AXT'AUNA-14 believes

that it had

boon the dig's intention from the very beginning to recruit her, be-

onuse she doubts that all DSE prisoners ato treated as well.

45.

The firat SH message which AMFAUNA-14 wrote while under DE

control was dated 10 October, the day of her release.

aniod hor what her control signal was, and she replied that it was a

rubrio, but also included her true control signal.

numbered her firet controlled SW message no. 2, to conceal the fact

that she had alroady written several messages containing intelligence

roports.

46.

In all she wrote three SW messages under control. She was

other given to the DgE for study.

angrily, aald he doubted that her carbons were anything more than

ordinary papor because he had been unable to develop anything that she

bad sitton, and thacateocd her tith rearrest.

AFAUNA-14 toid him

that she did not know anything about it,

but that if by chance he had

trion to develop the letters she had written with the pills he had

taken fron her, It would not work.

This surprised "Carlos," and

All auna-ls explained that there were two different sl systems, one for.

outgoing nail and the other for incoming.

"Carlog" then asked her 11

there wore any significance

to the gize

of envelope used, or to the way.

the lotter paper was folded.

AMFAUNA-14 said she did not think so.

AMPAUNA-14 feels that "Carlos" and ABAD never completely believed that

she had an S# system,

bacause none of the letterg which she received

disclosed ff when developed, and none of the letters which she wrote

showed any traces of 8W when held up to glancing light.

47.

"Carlog" was the DSE officer who maintained contact with

AMPAUNA-16 after her release.

for two or three weeks he saw her every

day at her apartment, sometimes for only twenty minutes, and sometimes

staying for several hours, frequently late at night.

Occasionally he

called her at her office.

Finally AMFAUNA-14 told him that she had to

Got up early in the morning to go to work, and asked him to visit her

early in the evening, which he agreed to do.

torcepted ANGLOSSY landing in Pinar del R1o, "Carlos" did not visit

in sonian no p

At. the

time of the in-

AN AUNA-le for five days.

Then he finally returned, he was dirty,

sweaty and tired.

He dictated an SW letter he wanted AMFAUNA-14 to

sond to subark, and while she was writing 1t he fell asleep.

48. AMFAUNA-14 had to prepare written reports for him, which she

signed. with the pseudonyn "Dolores."

He told her never to call him at

DeB loadquartere, because he was never there.

Once he brought her a

book on Marxis™ to read, and promised to take her someday to visit a

collective farm in Pinar del Rio Province.

Despite his occasional efforts to get her to pick up the threads

Of the AMYAUNA net, ANPAUNA-14 believes that the primary target she was

Intended to work against. was the ANCOG household. From remarks made by

both ABAD and "Carlos", she deduced that they already had an informer

in the house, but that they were not satisfied with his production.

Toward the end of her perlod of DiE-controlled activity, she felt

the DB8 was becoming relatively less interested in AMYAUNA-I and h1s

net, and nore in the AMCOG household.

0. They asked her about one Vicente LAGO

who is a regular guest

at the ANCOG house and who seems to be particularly intereeting to them.

Uit

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DIVA

SECRET

1894

tho ANCOGs.

thay vero vory Interested In his,

and asked whether she could arrange

Invitations to l'le house.

cloned do visitore to the nicols

mhanaados)

scosotary of Elo United Arab Republio imbansy

Japanone Ambasrador.

fortunately, during the four weeks following

MPAUHA-IA's rOleADO Iron DE custody, no diplomats vialtod the ANCOO

bouger. Carol Fri le

rialts + 201-294718 house hold

With the knowledge and encouragement of the DET, AMPAUNA-14

vinitod the AlCOd house nearly every day.

Her first viait took place

at soon on ll October and she stayed until about 1800 hours, during

which time she told AlCOQ-3 the entire story.

He listened

and took a

§ow notes,

but kept most of the story in his memory.

and oalsed AMPAUNA-14, told her to follow DSE Instructions to the lotter

and assured her that KUBARK would send her instructions.

0189.

AMFAUNA-14'e immediate preoccupations were AMCUTLER-2 and

Asfyla8 (whos she knew to be blown to the DSE as KUBARK agents),

AMPAURA-39 (who was not yet identified but had her telephone number and

algat oall her at any moment with damaging results to himself), and

the possible arrival of SW messages from KUBARK naming other agent

peruonnel.

59. On 11 October, the day after her release, AMPAUNA-14 sent a

a varning to At LiKe

is: yestact w/221-247045 pertai

01-321144 bung brine

On 13 or

4 october iucod-2 went to the home or Albertin

O'TARRII., where she net Wanday

FOSCHINI whom she asked merely to warn

Jaws that the Dst had allelal identifled. o Two or three days later,

Handa FOSCHINI reported backoto ANCOG-? that AM EE-& evidently was not

By this time, however, AHFAUNA-14 was

sure that allera knew that something was wrorf, because he had tele-

phoned AlPAUNA-l's mother asking for

"Soledad and had been told that atwul

(Regarding Albertina no 'FARRILL'S knowledge of

AMPAUNA-14 belloves that she probably know nothing-

steF

ore than that ANFAUNA-14 had been arrestet and then releaser.

On 13 October AMYAUNA-14 sent a warning telephone calt to

AMPAUHA-99.

8he diallod (30-6192) and told the woman who answered "Please

coat lanolo that Soledad calledgöand that he ghould not telephone me

bacause I a going to be out of Havana and will call him when I returnt"

AMPAUHA-14. la not sure now whether AMCOG-3, whom she consulted on the

beat way. to do this, had noted the telephone number.

06 88.

(Manue 1

COMPANIONI, WhOSe WArname 1A'AAleLANdIO, NO UnDoknOWneIto

auti, she sent a message to (COMPANYONI) via -AlCOG-3'a chauffeur

telling him to stay away from herpbbut anking him to folophone her

occasionally.

120 32246 рев

• 80 Cotober when she arrived home from workY AtFAUNA-1

Trying to divert his atten-

thon fron the sall box, she invited him to come right in, but he asked

hor why sho did not open hor mall box first.

She did so and found two

Lottoro IrOn AMPAUNA-1, dated 19 and 25 September.

They both contained

volod references to namon 11ke "Carmina" (ANCUTLER-?),

"Edgardo,"

"B] Grando" (AMPAUNA-35), andg{{80r") (ANHEB-?)!| One of

then Instructed AHFAUNA-14 to have, "Carmina"

and the other intinated that "Igor") had something for her.

"Carlos" ordered her to develop these letters, and she did so.

Ho socret writing appeared,

which did not surprise AHPAUNA-14 because

lotters themselves contained instruction for her, but it did

13/pV

---

## Page 11

14-00000

70

10nOtD0UiA

surprise "Carlos" who again began to accuse AMFAUNA-14 of double-

croBBing him.

AMFAUNA-14 explained the absence of su by saying that

KUBARX was probably testing its communications channels and waiting

for things to quiet down before sending mesgages.

89.

"CarIon" then told AMFAUNA-14 to get in touch with WEb,?

and got the pachage which he was holding for her.

She telephoned

O|ABBy& fron her offica and sald she wanted to see him. o/AWSS? agreed

to a 1o0t1as, but stipulatod that it be after 1700 hours and in his

offIco.

AHTÄUNA-14 reported this conversation to "Carlos" who told

her to

proceed with the meeting.

0l.

0180. ANWEEy? took AMFAUNA-14 into a Bmall rOOm, where sho quickly

explained the situation (she felt she shoujd not spend much time in

Alwal-?'a office bacaude ahe was afraid the dis had her under survell-

lance; this was confirmed laterawhen "Carlon" asked her casually how

much time she had spent in ANWEl?'s office, apparently trying to

catcin her out in a 110); AMUlE?,

told hor to take care of horself.

the D8s had wanted her to meet with him was to pick up a package which

they belloved he was holding for her. o AMiaby? replied that he was no

longer in a position to receive or sand packages, because the diplomat

with whon he had

been

cooperating had been declared persona non grata.

"Carion" 1180 told AMFAUNA-11 to contact AMCUTLER-2 to arrango

the introduction to "Edgardo.":

AMFAUNA-14 telephoned ANCUTLER-2'5

number, expecting to be told that AMCUTLER-? was not there, and was

very surprised when ANCUTLER-2 herself came to the telephone. AMPAUNA-

14 told ANCUTLER-? that she wanted to see her, but AMCUTLER-? gaid she

had & bad case of asthma and could not see anybody: AMFAUNA-14 re-

a at to Carlos a sat ether not footred or

nad not understood the warning message sent to her, so she sent

aUtishs two more oral messages via AMFAUNA-15 and one via Lolita

ol

formoso explicitly adviaing her to hide or take asylum.

89.

ANCUTLSR-2 showed no signs of heeding AMFAUNA-14's warnings.

"Carlos" continued to press AMAUNA-14 tO Bee ANCUTLER YAUNA -24

therefore sent one nore message, this time a written one, via Lolita

d gomoso baying that she really must see AUCUTLER-2 in the latter's

ñome for the purpose of coordinating cover stories.

AMCUTLER-2 then

pald a visit to the home of Lolita (FORMOSO to pass

the message that she

agroed to the weeting.

06.

64. On 3 November, with the knowledge of "Carlos," AMFAUNA-14 went

to ANCUTLER-3'E hOuse.

'"Carlog" briefed her to obtain

an introduction

not a close friend of GuTIERREz Menoyo.

She safd to add that she was

vory angry with A CUTLER-1 and thinking of divorcing him.

1201-337464 and: 761-3334

AMPAUNA-14 and ANCUTLER-? devised the following cover stories

for the protoction of the source of the airline passenger manifests

(A:TTAUNA-18, whom AMFAUNA-14 does not know) and of "Edgardo" (AMPAUNA-

87, whos AMPAUNA-14 does not know):

(8) Before leaving Cuba, AMPAUNA-1 had asked AMCUTLER-? to

ught cone addressed to

One day, a colored woman called at

ARCUTLER-Z's COffee shop on Calle San Rafael with a package addressed

ito "Batty". The collee shop employees had thought that the package was

Intendod for an esployee whose nane is "Ketti" and had given it to her,

but sho said it was not hers, and there matters rested until one day

hen AlCuTLeR-? visited the coffee shop and was told about the incident.

she told ber eaployees that she knew who the package was intended for,

äd dont it'öwer with har.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

(b) AMCUTLER-2 had received a.letter from AMFAUNA-i dated 18

etoms saving that she would receive a vialt Irom a person known to he

who would introduce himself ag

"Edgardo"

and agking her to introduc

"Edgardo" to AMPAUNA-14.

This person has not yet arrived, and AMCUTLER-

3 does not know who he 18.

87. AMCUTLER-? agreed to stick to these stories in case she 1a

Interrogated, and to brief "Ketti" to support the coffee shop story.

She also told AMFAUNA-14 she had decided to go into hiding immediately.

AMFAUNA-14 asked her not to do lt so soon after her visit, but ANCUTLER-

8 said that AMPAUNA-14 should provide her with cover by telling the dSE

that AMCUTLER-2 had spoken of raking a holida: at Varadero.

Making her report to "Carlos" after this meeting, AMFAUNA-14

told these covor stories as though they had just been revealed to her

by ANCUTLER-?.

A fourth letter arrived from AMFAUNA-1, consisting of two

pages of overt text.

AMFAUNA-14 was sure that it contained SW because

of the banallties in the cover letter.

Before turning it over to

"Carlos" she took it to AMCOG-3 who had somebody make a literal copy

of it and then destroyed the original. AMFAUNA-l4 turned the copy over

to "Carlos" who had her develop it, and was again disappointed and angry

when no SH showed up.

(Station comment: this letter had contained SW

number groups for OwVL reception.)

On or about 10 November 1963, AMFAUNA-14 prepared a written

for the DSE on the visitors to the AMCOG household.: This report

was actually dictated by AMCOG-3 to AMFAUNA-14 who took it down on the

typawriter.

She then made a handwritten copy of the report to turn in

to the DSE, keeping the typewritten copy for self-briefing.

She brought

Tollowino 10 a literal trunolation:

201

di

very well.

are old irtends of the family, and that the doctor took a trip to Mexico

y1th ANCOG-3'a uncle after the lattor's electien

They sympathize with the Revolution in some aspects, but their daughter

(who I think 18 engaged to the son of AMCOG-2) left Cuba for exile, and

this caused them

to change.

I do not know why their daughter had to :

take asylum.

'Dr.) Oscar PINA and his wife Margarita: Within the family

she has the nickname "Petite.

Until very recently he

was neutral, but now 1t seems

cases. I"a very bad mood because i believe he has the work of eight

• She does not sympathize much with the revolution.

They have no

children, but aimost all of her family is abroad which I think is her

principal reason for being discontented.

i can in horshif

4,1-2418.35.

t1,, 2,1

Sre. Nenita de/#CARAMES: She 1e the wife of/inu CARAMES,

the former Chief of Police of Havana. She has a daughter by him whom

she brings to lunch every Sunday, and she is also caring for a son of "

CARAMES who 18 insane and in an asylum.

I do not believe that at the

moment she is on good terms with her husband who is abroad, and there-

fore she is neither against nor in favor.

Actually I believe she 18

afraid that the situation will change and her husband will return.

sr. fernando FiSTEFFANI:

An elderly gentleman who is the

father of an Intimate Iriend of AlcoG-2, who out of pity has given him

raystanding Invitation for every Sunday:

To be sure, the poor fellow

1a rather tiresome.

ORM

110-60-330

UNE PARVIQUE EDITION.

CLASBIPICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

12

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Elsa /EDIAZ Blart: Her family has been friendly with the

"diving

AMCOG family for many yenrs.

They were school friends.

She has a

sister abroad and a brother who is in priarn.

Her father and mother

seldom come to the house.

A sister of hers 1e a doctor of some farm.

All she does 1e obtain medicines for the pilsoners, thereby causing

a lot of trouble for ANCOG?, ANCOG-3 and the old man. l li! d'uTiy

Joaguin SANCHEZ and his wife Sara: According to what I

have heard, he le

a travelling salesman for some

laboratory. His wife

1s the sister of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and

AHCCG-3 (31c).

I have also heard that she is always trying to get

medicine. for her son who, from what I have heard, 1s abnormal.

o: She lost both he

father and mother when she was thirteen years old, and the ANCOG family

took hor in as an adopted daughtor.

The old man paid jor her education.

she is like a daughter to him,

and like a sister to the nephew and niece.

She worka in the emergency hospital.

She is not openly opposed to the

regine, but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives

My 201

has Breatly allected her, aid daniella satani ki.

19l11 ..

Vicente l*LAGO and his wife Maria Julia: His brother

Roberto LAGO,

Aco Dro died sone years ago,

was Pola's first husband. They

have two sons abroad. from what I have heard, he devotes himseltex

clublyaty to his profossion, and it is she who is most upset by the

separation from her children.

111:11.2.

MercedesFvALDES Chacon: A case very similar to that of

BTEPFANI, except that ghe is a woman who is a very good frlend of th

ANCOG-2's husband, and tein the same situation with her relatives

abroad.

1g just one more of the many refugees in search of warmth

and Irlendship, with no friends left in Cuba.

Jul1O/EBRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all hie family

is abroad.

He is another

case of warmth and friendship,

he uses the

he is alone, I have even seen him cutting trees

•1th ANCOG3, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoong he

playa chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything

bad about anybody, not even about the situation, the only thing - as 1s

natural - he myses his daughters and his wife.dusuck

ial.

Rague 1 CASAGRAN:

The widow of the Director of Culture in

the Grau Government,.

Jesus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was

nilftary alde to both

Grau and

She 1s very highly regarded by

the family.

I have never heard her express herself in any way against

tho Government;

I would call her neutral.

OLga /CRECENTEr Porner wiPe o1 JoBe Maria de la Arullera,

8ho comeg

to the house with her two daughters and hermother who is a 3

cousin of Sra.. Paulina.

ANCOG-2 helped her a lot. in hiding her husband

during tha Batista tyranny.

I have also heard that ANCOG-3 helped her

with hor divorce.

Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revolution,

although I belleve that it 18 out of spite againat her husband. her

sother'a name 18 Leopoldina SANCHEZ Vda, de Creceite, and her nickname

¡KA 1OFHOnga.

Hilda fario: countnos

22/203

48292446

randomEREO who is a close friend on

husband of Polita.

1s another-

case of lanily warmth,

bocause after all her family had left she came

but was never able to.

This is her principal obsession

hat of her mother as well.

She has been coming to the house a lot

past three years, and has become a very. good

friend of the

reality it was her

cousin who was a better friend

---

## Page 14

14-00000

olator abroad

and.a brother who 18 in prison,

Her father and mother

soldon come to the house.

A sister of hers

1s a doctor of some: farm.

All she "does l6 obtiin medicines for the prisoners, thereby causing

a lot of trouble for AMCOG-2, AMCOG-3 and the old man. ul 1e 194118

JoaquiD RBANCHEZ and his wife Sara: According to what

& travelting saleman for some

1o the sister of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho ano

ANCOS-3 (81c).

I have algo heard that she

1a always trying to get

mediolne for her son who, from what I have heard, 1s abnormal.

h. Di, Marla Dolores EsANCHEZ Possino: She lost both her

father and mother when she was thirteen years old, and the ANCOG family

took hor in as an adopted daughter.

The old man

paid for her education.

She 1s 11ke a daughter to him, and like a sister

to the nephew and niece,

She works in the emergoncy hospital.

She 1s not openly opposed to the

годіно,

has

but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives

1. (Dr, Vicontel#LAGO and his wifo Maria Julia: His brother

Roberto LAGO,

Who died some years ago,

was Pola's first husband. They

have

two sons abroad. From what I have heard, he devotes himself_ex-

ClUBAYOLS tO hIs DOLeBBIOn, and 1t 1e she who 1s most upset by the

separation from her children.

%.:1

Mercedes FaVALDES Chacon: A case very similar to that of

STEPFANI, except that she Is a woman who is a very good irlend of th

cOda's husband, and Ig''in the same situation with her relatives

abroad.

of the many refugees in search of warmth

and frlendship, with no friends

'left in Cuba.

k.

Ju110 FABRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all hle Iamily

1s abroad.

He is another

case of warmth and friondship,

he, uses the

salmain? pool a lot.

he 1g

alone, I have even seen him cutting trees

with nicolas, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the alternoong he

playa chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything

bad about anybody, not even

van about

about the situation, the only thing - as 18

natural - he mages his daughters and hig wife..ussiathiilult

Raque 1 #CASAGRAN: The widow of the Director of Culture in

the drau Government, Jesus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was

mIlitary aide to

Grau and

She is very highly regarded by

the family.

never heard her express herself in any way against

the Govornment; I would call her neutral.

Olga / CRECENTE:

Former wife of Jose Maria de la Agullera,

ahe comes to the

house with her two daughters and hermother who is a

cousin of 8ra. Paulina. AMCOG-2 helped her a lot in hiding her husband

during the Batista tyranny.

I have also heard that AMCOG-3 helped her

with her divorce.

Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revolution,

although I bellove that it lo out of spite againet her husband.

sothor a name 18 Leopoldina SANCHEZ Voa. de Crecente, and her nickname

UKA 18PHonga.

- 2--2:203

= 2424-1

Hilda 'AFLO: Cousinof

ArmandomEO who is a close friend of)

MprankMPARZ and oi SOsagMAVERO the husband of Polita.

She: 18 another

because after all her famlly had left she came

This is her principal obsession

She has been coming to the house a lot

for the past three yeare, and has become a very good friend of the

family,

"though in reality it was her cousin who was a better friend

of the houseslie fda-391214

Rosendo I#SACIO and Sra.

VANEZ: This couple has

two children who are really here from her jirst marriage, Manolito and

He has a cleaning shop in Havana, and I know that she has

par guitar torobat no.

FORM

VOR PREVIOUA pOITION.

SECKET

.13

CONTINUED

• ill :1

die lee"

ali: p. preposit.

CTIONS

---

## Page 15

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DIBPATCH

SECRET.

UFGA-12894

bofore she married J. ÁQUERO, Politically speaking, she follows the

Grau 1100.

She is nore or less neutral,

and devotes

herself to her

teaching work. He devotes himself exclusively to his. work..

r.!

p. . Manuel *COMPANIONI and his wife Alicia: They have been

acquaintances of lidory and Alcocas for many years, although it was

not

a close friendship,

rather a friendehip of Montmartre, Tropicana, etc.

A daughter of theirs is abroad.

He

too was a very good friend of Armando

Fio who used to be a friend of the family, and now in the course of time

they have become closer friends of the family.

In other words it is

another case of friendship caused by being ahandoned by others.

He has

a snall decorant factory in the same house there they live.

They both

have their mothere here.

Jack CoNNILL and his wife Martia:

His mother has been a

very good

friend of the family for many years,

and she was a school

friend of the two nieces of the old man.

always been

friends of the family, the more so now

that so many of their friends

havo left Cuba.

72. AMPAUNA-14 turned this report over to "Carlos" on 11 or 12

November.

At this meeting he asked her to try to make contact with

AMFAUNA-3'8 brother who he said had been transferred to a hospital in

Las Villas.

difficult.

ANYAUNA-14 said she would try' 'Carlos."

but thought it would be

This was the last time she saw

He telephoned her

again on 16 November to ask what was new, and this was their last

telephone contact.

72.

When AMFAUNA-14 arrived at AMCOG-3's house at about 2000 hours

on 15 Novomber 1963 for the regular Friday night supper, he took her

aside and said he wanted to speak to her privately later.

At about

8330 hours she went to his room.

There he told her that he had received

orders that she was to leave Cuba the following week.

He said that

precise instructiong were to come on 16 and 17 November, so he made

lunch date with her for Sunday noon at his house.

73.

AHFAUnA-1& was trightened by this.

She did not sleep well

Friday or Saturday nights, and spent Saturday 1n.

her home.

Bunday alternoon in AMCOG-3's house, AMCOG-3 told her that she

leave the following day.

She said that she did not want to.

ANCOB3 responded that this was an order.

He said that the DSE would

probably arrest her again soon, and for her own safety and that of others

He added that there were others who were to leave too,

whose departure had been made conditional upon her own.

AMFAUNA-14 agked whether AMCUTLER-2 were one of these other

who were to leave too, and AMCOG-3 replied that she was. AMFAUNA-

AMCUTLER-2 would not agree to leave.

AMCOG-3

said that he thought she would because the orders had been couched in

He then showed her the instructions, both for herself and for

ANCUTLER-2.

He had her type her instructions on a piece of paper, and

then memorize them.

77. Then ANCOG-3 gaVe AHFAUNA-14 the following verbal messages to

deliver when she reached JUWAVE:

(a)

A colonel fnu LANDETRA, a tank expert who had been in the

Cuban Aruy under GRAU and PRIO, 1s a prisoner on a farm in Havana

vince. He is given three days

In advance when he will be coming out.

but has indirect contact to her.

Intelligent and

a real soldier, and 1f we want him out AMCOG-3 can

Arrange

1t.

22036

Pro.

off per week to go home.

11s wife knowa

AMCOG-3 does not know the wife,

AMCOG-3 says the man is honest and

(b) As of about 1800 hours on i7 November,

infiltrated into cuba and had been hiding at the home of rer el gabridas

PAGE NO:

---

## Page 16

14-00000

DISPATCH

SBURS!

UrUA- 18894

bad boon moved to a now hiding place.

AMCOG-3 was considering trying

to help the young man into asylum in the Uruguayan imbassy through a

cortain "Popin" whoge identity in not known to AMPAUNA-l4 but who she

thinks 18

06 Uruguayan attache.

(c) AMCOO-3 18 out of one-time pada and needs a resupply.

It la vory posaible that AuCuJ-3 may be able to obtain

and forward a copy of AMFAUNA- 14 DSE dossier.

78.

On Monday morning, 18 Novemhor, AMTAUNA-14 dressed as she had

boon Instructed, and stuffed a pair of slacks and sneakers into the

straw handbag which she had been told to carry.

At 1300 hourg she left

her office and proceeded on loot to the coiner of Atares and Arango in

Reparto Luyano, arriving there at 1400 hours. Here she exceeded her

Instructions,

waiting for ANCUTLER-2 not five minutes but fifteen. She

then walked very alowly toward Calzada Luyano, hoping that AMCUTLER-2

might overtake her.

This consumed another ten minutes, and by the time

ahe reached the Calzada Luyano it was too late for. her to walk the re-

maindor of the distance, so she took a taxi.

78. AMFAUNA-14 discharged the taxi one block before theParque de

la Virgon del Camino and walked the rest of the way.

She went to the

abrine whore she prayed for a few minutes, and then

sat on a bench

from which she could soe the whole park.

80.

At 1510 hours a 1954 Buick taxi arrived at the park.

The

driver stayed in the

car, and two men - a colored

man and

fair-haired

Man - got out and walked around for about ten minutes.

Finally they

approached her and gave the challenge, to which she gave the correct

One of the men then sald simply "Follow me".

They took her

back to

the taxi and put her in the back seat with one of the men, the

other two riding in front.

81.

They headed out of the city.

When the reached the Carretera

de Varadero, one of the men asked her polltely if she would mind keeping

bor eyes directed down toward the floor and not look out the window.

Bhe rode this way for about two hours.

By then it was dark, and she was

told she could look up again.

took advantage of the opportunity to

change into her slacks and sneakers.

82.

Finally the car stopped, and she and her two escorts got out:

They walked a long time.

At one point, whistle signals were exchanged

with sopeone in the darkness, and two other men appeared, one of whom

нав анскву?.

AMFAUNA-14 and

AMTEB2 greeted each other politely, but

pretendedunot to know ouch other. ol

They did a lot more walking and Joined up with another man, who

turned out to be the radio man.

He had a lot of equipment with him,

and AHYAUNA-14 and AMWE8+2 helped to carry it.

84.

They now reached the mangrove and began to walk through water.

At one point their gulde became briefly lost, but found his way again

almost Innediately.

When they came to the open water, one of the guides

ront forward and signalled.

The boat came in in response to the signal.

AMPAUNA-14 PANWEEZ, and the radio man walked out to knee-deep water

and cllabed into the boat, which already had a crew of two.

85.

The boat proceeded out to an unidentified key.

The crew

con-

coaled it in the mangrove, cleverly lacing and tying branches together

over it to form a camouflage cover. There they went to sleep.

The following day, 19 November, was spent at this spot.

radio nessage was received during the day. At night the boat put out

The waves were enormous, and AMFAUNA-14 was terribly

soasick. The boat remained at the rendezvous point until 1045 hours,:

with alPauna-la pleading for the crew to return to land, saying she

would rather be shot than remain so seasick.

Finally the crew did put

back, saying that the ship probably would not come because the sea was

---

## Page 17

14-00000

DEEPATCH

BECRET

UFGA-12894

87.

wednosday,

80 November,

was apent on the same key.

A vory,

Jong radio message

was rocoivod during the day.

AMFAUNA-14 and 'ANWEB,2

both belpod the radio man to decipher it, and their combined efforte

took about three hours..

Then they put out again for the Cayo Megano

rendezvous point.

this time their drinhing water was all gone.

the boat ass ovorloaded, so much of the loud and equipment was loft

bobind on the key.

Arain no ship appeared.

This time,

inatoad of

roturning to their original hiding place, the crow took the boat to

Cayo Mosquito.

Here they spent the remaindor of to night, and all ef Thursday

äl November.

Thoir water was gone, there tir very little loud left,

and there was only enough gasoline

left for one moro one-way trip

out to the rendezvous point.

At 1400 hours on 21 November another

With the combined efforts of the radio

Everybody was very optimistic; they were all sure that

would be picked up that night.

promptly at 2300 hours

the ship was seen approaching.

boat put out immediately,

AMPAUNA-14 was taken into the sick bay where she was given a pill, a

and its passengers were taken aboard the ship

little water, end somewhat later some warm bruth.

90.

From the moment she stepped into the boat on 18 November, until

she was hauled out by the armpite on 21 November, AMFAUNA-14 never left

the boat.

Her side and logs were bruised from the pounding of the

waves against the boat. A little blood vessel in her right eye was

broken by a twig snapping in her face as she walked through the man-

grove. This was treated by the ship's doctor.

01. AMFAUNA-14 says that the AMHICK team performed very well. The

pickup in the park was done excellently.

The slight delay while they

looked her over, she says, was due to the fact that the men had ex-

pected another woman to be with her, and they were waiting a few minutes

In case the other woman should show up. The AMHICK. team said that they

had also been briefed that she would be wearing her hair in a bun.

She had not been briefed accordingly, and she was wearing her hair

down her back in a pony tail.

This discrepancy did not cause any con-

fusIon, because every other item of the visual recognition signals

tallied perioctly, and the AMHICK team were well briefed on all of them.

92.

AMFAUNA-14 was impressed by the precise timing of the team'g

novements, by the fact that everybody was whare he was supposed to be

at the time indicated.

She axpressed admiration for their seamanghip,

and their ability to pick out one spot of mangrove from another 1n

the pitch darkness.

93.

She says that, during these trying days, the team members were

always in calm control of the situation, and never falling in their

courtesy to her.

Regarding AMCUTLER-2, AHFAUNA-14 ig sure that the exfiltration

Instructions reached her.

They were taken, she said, by Lolita FORMOSO

who had been standing by

for them from friday to Sunday.

What Lolita

did with them, AMPAUNA-14 does not know.

She knows that we had

be under survelligace, so she thinks lolita might have taken them

directly to AMCUTLER-2.

In any case, she knows that messages sent

proviously by ANCOG-3 to AMCUTLER-? reached the latter, and she sees

no raason to assume that these Instructions did not.

95.: It does not surprise AHPAUNA-14 that AMCUTLER-2 did not follow

the orders.

. ANCUTLER-?, she says, plays her own game with little con-

sideration

for otherg.

Between the time that AMFAUNA-1 left Cuba on

11. Boptember, and the time that AMFAUNA-14 was arrested on 7 October

ANCUTLER-? had visited AMFAUNA-14's apartment twice.. On both occasions,

DAGE NO..

2/NV

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CONTINUATOR OF ..

DI PATCH

CLANUINEATION

SECRETS

BEATEN SYNOOL AND HORDES

UFGA - 12894

AMPÄUNA-14 had asked her to romove the suitcase that AMFAUNA-I had left

but on both occasiong AMCUTLER-2 had found some excuse not to

When AMFAUNA-14 visited AMCUTLER-2 in her home 11, Guanabacos

on 3 November for the purpose of coordinating their cover stories,

ANCUTLER-?.did not seem very interested in coordinating stories or

AMFAUNA-14 believes that AMCUTLER-2 may be working for

sto lacost treatel the Second Front of the Escambray,

who mes a colloctor for this organization.

Among other reasons

posalbly keeping ANCUTLER-? in Cuba, AMFAUN!-14 says that AMCUTLER-2'8

mother is sick with cancer, and there may tu something wrong between

ANCUTLSR-1 and AMCUTLER-2.

AdoraTi

AMPAUNA-14 also had her reasons for not wanting to leave Cuba.

Besides the dangers of the trip, she would he leaving her mother and

father in a dangerous position, because the DSE had forced her to

sign a contession implicating them.

While she appears to be trying not

to be overly critical of AMCUTLER-2, she has commented that AMCUTLER-2

snowa far more members of the AMFAUNA net than she herself does, B

that the reasong requiring the exfiltration of AMFAUNA-14 should be

even more compelling for AMCUTLER-2.

End of Dispatch

SL.61.40

---

