# 104-10183-10260

## Page 1

14-00000

excess 88s558958858882 43232232388888523235s83893siasa

104-10183-10260... 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

174 64-

'7

i3 Octoter 1569

08,06

RETURNTO CIA

STE SORRINDU"

Background Use Onl

Do Not Reproduce

JUANICT: All-s geration

.24

Cürlenng in Gunteral of Cuct otate i eralta

1..

The briefing we told in a trall lusurdous

guvermiert co.derence rin.ntlie diasnon.of, riday

asting at 1? nours, loned of: tate 08,06

Cole get Chete or gent one en to

malars. Laul coco and daly diness ul our i tatlontere.

03,05,162

27,03

2, Al the request of the cut, and sen,)s

prefaced the operatonal briesng isth a tried description

ol hus the i. Intelligence communty operator, us the

role or ili,

of the need for cos partnentation and security,

and specillcally of how thengregoing contrerations ira.se

it innerative sor the Guateialang lo idupr-ecurit. pre-

cautions nichill encure that the internation me provide

and the Elat operations ire undertone are compartmerter ze

within me cuatendlan government/laid

by-the Cuatemalay governaerterclusivelyl.ourre

presentatives in the field). 24

¡Ollursag too macductory reinaris vutlines!

above, l priest the group un the Deil structure, to d'cl

uperational technques no speculically oad clus n

operations in Guatemala. ThelpresideUlent.clusse attentio:

throughout the brieting and carined the exhilts closely,

including the i til inteiligorce: reguirenients dur Cuatemala 24

and the calvadoren "las., Zapote" tiled

so ofter the foreguin expirition, l explanari..

• 81+ 7,741

Lu 115 fulnust all lililin; solerones to burtrarel dies zl

and sarci: list.

19/pV

---

## Page 2

-?=24

24 Loi mls baing trans ferred to ruatenne (The as li line

with the chacunion de Elsalvados anich incladedleur Chief 2?

ofstatton thie

ressent unu the preridents intelligence 08.06

advisor,

Colonel Aaarcore desed that the Guateinalanat

governmentase nu act: in unies requesteaty Treside t 24

Piverd or colonel eDitio and raid that, lit DAnToN 24

1s. transterred une et cur people probady roulo tale tu

24

The Ciri ef date duraltaJinale is rither

Impassionel appach la niuer de corred thr dollowin, points:

lis cen lo siperienco lu the dá, in c'ulia

und in Central adorica;

sile euri; sarmings disut Ciatr.rowhich

were ditare, arc.;

whieh it has loured toward Ji LeaderHup;

:d: The tallure of the U.i, to tire agresiv.

actlon a airst. Cuba ant due neod for listing a

bird line, unclurin, the use of force in support ut

militiry activit; b; the free cubans and the other

American countries; ..

ins arnrechton that thie sörlets will not be

"Illin; tu sisa a nuclear sar iver Cula;

la Conderanalim os ilerico for hor dealings ilth

cuia, lor tailure to abide d; hes obiliatlors in

the Dis, and for periattli, fire Castroites tu

operate out ul rienico agumit uther dnerican

countries;

K. The neet tor action ayalnat siesico;

---

## Page 3

The electiveress of sun von actions duatrst

nuerril lin quate inta and us deterination

te meet violence ith violence;

decu-nition of the importanco of the musiation

corered in the irrelin, and of its exploitation;

referency to the care of the alexican cuurter

oratin for Cutes intelligence and now derained 22

li Cuaternala (de Airain) case)d

Acceptance al secursty restrictions an ite

decision to hold tis information to those present.

%.

In repling lu lso recares Colonel Peralta)

I said tral de appreciato the comerationto duateriala so the 24

Onijand that ise shall he mutt interested in the epilollation

of the punst plitles la the prosont case. Ladded tilet the matter

of usin, forco arinet Cuba is is polie; matter on votes I cas

nut competent lo coricort ixt that the docisions made l tio

United tates overnient are baeed on carcial sturdy of

detalled insorraaã1 on Inebrelin, intoriation on sovlet infertione

and capa! ilities.

do al the conclusion of the reetins, (Peralta)

as-ed for i cou; ul tha lal re utrenents (which he ilready

had sune over closei, ) and coon the cüp; with atin to : rud;

further.

karold to swenson

Chief;

%. 41/57C1

CECRET

---

