# 104-10167-10127

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10167-10127

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

THEN FELED INI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FRCM:

NOTE: In the absenco of commento or indication of astion

token, this cover shoot with bo dostroped aton the

document is filed.

RIDI

COMMENTS

TO

iH!? C'e

3.

4:

5.

ROOM

NO.

IATE

RECEIVE POONAADEDI

INITIALS

yu PERMANENT CHANGE

FOR YOUR RETENTION

COPY

RECORD

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

1D.

RIMIS

20.

RIDIFI

ENCLOSURE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

88500

1400L

ANSTRACT

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

2351

QICHAR

'FILE NUMBER

911-259716

DOCUMENT NUMBER

DOCUMENT DATE

18 Cum, 54.

UNBLA-12

---

## Page 2

14-00000

INCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optionoll

FROMA:

il opticas designation, rota aubes, ond

1.

0S

2.

3.

ic/Chen

5.

INTERTIL

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEEI

на

=7.

SECRET

DATE

RECINED

OFICER'S

ININALS

PORMARDED!

194

Drom o lina escroes coluna aftos nocto comment

1- COPY DETAGED fON

Chroseo

il/ Tharpe

Carit/R

pacae.

Thin cif litt 3/Cait

station Havana

pere prestaile

9.

10.

11.

13.

14.

RI/AN

RI/71

PORM

SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

" & COMENTANTE MATTTONO CATRE: 1980-076711

VBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

cassacincon

DISPATCH

DID ASCA PONTA ANO NO

12:14.-22

TO

NO

FROM

DATE

THE (K40207)

Report of Contat tith mean on 1i angist

2153

COM HQUIRED

See Fara 10.

=: hagust 1983

1'15' - ICHECK 'I CAE,

MANTED FOR DUDEING

NO POLING AFQUINED

INTERPTS CAN BE JUDGES

BY CUALFIED HO. DESE CRALY

NCASI

U.ir-11

1o LOCHAR sas asted fire to bring se up tri date on that he end the othes

in his soup have seen coina ad he repited that they were not ta'ra sica c?

anything except rating.

kazing, first

dor 50ge fris shich tary are expediag

o come Irisarily iron the saia of the irit; and, senana, walting for the ester-

lishnent of sode sattor cottisation vit balr contucts in site.

With regar to the circraft, sini: told sa or this date shat he relieres

he does now have à sale for the sirent sal be thicks the sale price bill be setsaon

03450 an: U3455 sarison?.

T as cosmicated vich eoneone (he rasn't sure =i

the naze) in an citesnt

=isit fundo fisa pesgie in Cuba.

iceir presentes

"autiorizia?"

sure people in susa to go abesi

and soliait funds. In this intraction, us castioned that at one time in tre

DEst jaiio LOBO (Este: this zure has nare- jeen sentioned in any prorisus cortersations

with tais oup) hed considers donating laguo thrusand for the air force seasel

which iDEAR was Isotin at tact tine, it appareati: becare ari atenod of toa

deal ani nothing along th!s lise naterialied.

Dear said that he was hopefu that

sosetize de voulá se aila to castablish contact rita 10b0. A: sis refercase is

entirel; coincidentai to my raggestions zie to Ridi that I man tr to bria

this grote togethes rich Julia s30.

Zaria learned of this prerious connectice,

I want to revive this idea an anceed wits the pies to bring these tro together.

Is and whes they are ale to sariate sore funds, It ls their Intention

to go ahead with their plans is the establishment ci = propagania prozan thica

would he initially voice cai:.

EDCH' seid that he had beer tarley to persueza

for then in a merious seetin- lee nai-i. Be said he thina nas that this is

the sore realistic approach,

02 Edcora boids to the original thinn that say 0?

cannot coult therseires to sure Unitatica. eDUR Iriorned sa that ODeoVE sequests

another resting sita re.

Ze me, told that i und se guay for a fe. ¿sys

contact dia as soch as I retur.

I then questioned GOEs about bis cowledge and EBlAS' couledge of the

presense of soviet aussians i tuba.

Drei? steted that his say tromation bad cone

→to bin tamuch Douglas RoUT lia 15 the canndian then DulR meaned to freg-eatiy

In his carlier debriefta, hy simlY et i:,. Root alcised to b'= to have econ ae D5

Sorlets in Santiao de Puca rel DOllAR sall that firherore he dud ditainça tige sanes

nich he passed to Colonel ITICS 1n the trence Bia:ssy in Sareas. When saces 1f

he thought these were the same smith that spills hei referred to a his testicay

in Vashinston, DeiR said he told thet they vere, aithresh he sellered soilas"

Infontion was obtained

Indemnient of ats, Drill, surree.

a ba 15 tale veil, CHAl surel that nouris one of sereral decale

mom grER encoured to tennis in plate and to to cong with foi cisiTo nad athe

for the juitose of outaintan sure specifi: tiamatica du Comaniss end Commist

ativates an the aged forses. de sele shes along this line orahad beea trere-05

is a russian nee tut at the ament he

mcall the nera. "tarta".

his matcale, to wus emerted thet urdua develag a maddeal of infarsation.

Where ared in this cornentica vene Radio 111D55, so 15 ilose to Bul Castro,

en isorise.

otton tita these

deminist activities in the duran arbed ferrea.

10 5 53

USE PITE OLS EDITON

hereaftere

31 2

31 DRA AND S1 79

AMiCH ARE DISCIEN!

2:1-254714

PATH NO

==22

10/BR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPATCH SYMECA GRO MES.

234-2

In unsic: 10 his 47002: 86 cases%mie, 1961 = 20410 518

2: 005702635

toal to his aire ti contact cuen tazurata do Sister

purpose di cuttiao dia in contino vito eato no mad to tate and te

in Dearts nace to pass on any ari all Macination de das at sa's 5se.

and the zen of the Sassad Iron

i the Bosenürag die and vili rosain anti-cir and eratially mi sore agalast

It was learned thet our is tracta laar 1 Frani Realm's heisa

had lem tale who does fond a wade duel are

He also 1ni0:ta? ze tinat COST,Y

names of some acquaintances az taose whose rates an bussian. I jare sut yet

had an opportunity to discus this rita toe count aget involres.

10. I will meet with the mury agut at the end or this toes, at which tire

I expect they will nave sose codilled purition mit regard to their entirities

arE mia appea again for assistance.

recommendation with regard to saving his me gat in touca with zeroe de

Gustro end to get nia debriefed ie pessad to the Enrara Station.

Hanky

PIERICK I. TA

3-kJ1

10-5 530

USt MAIMOUS FOrON

REFLACTS FORMS

4M4I01A MO $1.79

2 :f?

---

