# 104-10170-10051

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10170-10051

28/51

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:

Page:

02/12/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10170-10051

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

CIA

CHIEF OF STATION, UMWAVE

CHIEF; TASK FORCE W

AMSPELL PROGRESS REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER 1962

10/09/62

73

AMSPELL

PROGRESS REPORT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1B

RELEASED

WITH DELETIONS

02/07/98

JFK64-25: F27 1998.02.07.11:28:56:590031: ATTACHMENTS INCLUDED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED:

---

## Page 2

14-00000

5P

10

DISPATCH

Chief, Task Force M

S-S-C-R-E-T.

1910

fil. DiE

PROCESSING

АСТЮМ

MARAID FOR 1947 X1MS

NO HARE XINE RIQUINTO

ЛАДАНИ НУ

CAR MIPCI IMORRISO

ABSIRACT

ACCOM

FISHED

I RUMS

Chief of Station, IMWAVE

SUBJECT

Operational, GIROSE/KUWOLF

ANSPELL Progress Report for September 1962

ACTION REQUIRIO ALILREANTS

Action:. For your information

Ref : A.

UFGA-5728, dated 21 September 1962

В.

UFGA-5897

dated

25. September 1962

C.

UFGA -6065,

dated

8 October 1962

D.

CARA -7019,

dated

25

September 1962

E.

CARA - 6991,

dated 15

F.

WAVE-8311,

dated

7

September 1962

G.

September 1962

WAVE-8356, dated

8 September 1962

The September Progress Report for AMSPElL, including

AMHINT and AUBARB activities, is transmitted hercwith:

A.

ANSPELL

1) General:

01

On 21 September 1962, AMHINT -53 exfiltrated

PBRUMEN in a refugee vessel and made his preliminary operational

report on release

from CAC on 82 September (Reference B).

was accompanted by the National Coordinator for Agricultural Affairs

factually an organizer for sucrrilla warfare and resistance groups

throughout the Island) Jose Angel LorANo y Lozano.

ANHINT/53, and LOZANO rendered an optimistic operational report on

Continued

Distribution:

3 - C/TFM, w/att, ste: Pik.!

Attachments:

Under

Separate Cover,

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

19-124

- 260/2,

DATE TIPED

DATE DISFAICHED

9 October 196ST 15 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-6140

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-120-19/1

S-E-C-R-E-T

218R.

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA -6140

ANSPELL Organization In PBRUMEN, Including the situation in the

underground, compartmentation, organization; communications con-

trol and intelligence structure.

subjects are undergoing intell-

¡gence debriefing on a continuing basis.

was arrangnd his cxfiltration and

ANSPELL PSJWAr

Uperations In PBRUNES and the hemisphere were

continued on their normal course,

the ahists were still smarting

from the ODYONE confiscation of their vessel, the JUANINI, as a

consequence of the 24 August attack on Harana.

ANHINTE?)rent toOl

Caracas on 7 Suptember for a meetiny with President BETANCOURT (or

his official representative) and a press conference where he

released an AMSPELL statement, which in effect, served a notice on

PBRUMEN and the USSR that any

communist shipping encountered in

PBRUNEN territorial waters will be atracked on sight. (Reference

Behind the scenes, however, ANHINT+2iwas report-

edly (Reference D and E) negotiating with Venezuelar Naval Officials

for surfacecraft and possibly a base from which to operate.

succéss he achleved inthis quest, or to what extent President

BETANCOURT is prepared

to help ANSPELL, is still an unknown

quantity.... Judging from their attempts to raise funds in other

spheres, allegedly for the purchase of a replacement vessal, they

sere not very successful in Caracas.

(A Py Case Officer handling

the CEDAR team has reported that one of the members complainec

of forfelting a 20-percent "kick-back" in his ANSPELL salary.

(For a breakdown of AMSPELL salary see Attachment B. )

AMHINT-Picturned from

aracas and ns to bo

expected, gave

no indication of

"sectet negotiations"

On 27 September, along with HINT-S, he requested a

meeting with the JUlAVE officer för discussion of the AMBARB

funding disagreement and the generni ANSPELL situation (See

Attachment C).

Perhaps this session gave SHAVE a bit more insight

as to AMSPELL plans and Intentions,

but no real solution for the

ANBARBS resulted.

In short, AMSPELL policy 1s to mold PBPRIME

public opinion and bring pressure to bear on ODYOKE and GPIDEAL

for action in the PBRUMEN situation within the next four months.

To implement such a policy, AMSPELL has exploited

the impact of

their 24 August

on Porride news media,

well-as their Caracas Declaration.

they have publisheda

weekly news letter in

English entitled "The Cuban Report" (Refer-

ence C) and about 1,000 copies are mailed out to ODYOKE officials

and congressmen.

Initiated in Iate August,

the main theme of this

publication has been the Soviet/Bloc materiel buildup in PBRUMEN.

(See Attachment A)

2) Total ANSPELL Support for September 1962: $50,960.40

a. AMBARB Section:

Salaries

$12,210.00

b. ANHINT Section:

C. ANSPELL General:

Operations

7,700.00

Processing

1,020.40 $20,960.40

Support

$ 5,000.00

Salaries

9,000.00

Overhead

2,100.00

Operations 13,900.00 $25,000.00

-4/BR

10*530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CASSIFICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

0000.8U80

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

• UFGA-6110.

3) Intrlligcice Production:

UFG-1572 - "Stntus of Equipment at the Nico Lopez

Refinury & UK, Gech,

and Soviet Asultance

in 1t5 maintenance: Shipment of Guld Bullion

from the Refinery to the USSR."

UFG-1585 - (As above)

UFG-1607 - (As above)

UFG-1622 - (As above)

UFG-1628 - (As abovo)

4)

Development and Plans:

All planning.phases.of AMSPELL activitios supportod by

IMHAVE at the present time are subject to the results of meetings

AMSPELL concerning increased control, and, the decisiong of

IMWAVE to continue a support relationship 1f an acceptable degree

Of KUBARK control can be established.

B. AMHINTS:

1) General:

As reported in Reference B, the most important

AMHINT development during September was the

exfiltration of

AMHINT-53001 This was also significant for UNWAVs, since all nego-

with AMSPELL would be

transferred from AMHINT-Zito 0l

ANKINT-53601 Although ASHiNT 53w111 undoubtedly

be fully briefed

and re-Indoctrinated by AMHINT leaders

concerning AMsPElL present

status and operational relationship with JMWAVE, AMHINT-53

mature and astute leader and can

be expected to appreciate tha

broad scope of IMWAVE-ANSPELL operations.

the AMHINTS in PBRUMEN

continue to produce.

machine in Havana and distribüte about 10,000 coples monthly.

They are also committed to the collection and transmission of

reports and photographs on the Soviet buildup, at lcast until

the DAMSON intelligence operations are begun.

This activity

is. in direct support of the AMSPELL policy cited in Paragraph A.l)e

above.

The ASPELL propaganda section is divided into four.

departments to carry out this program: PBRUNEN, Latin American,

PBRUMEN Exile Community and PBPRIME.

Diplomatic pouches intercepted for JMWAVE by

AMBLEAK-] have revealed much of AUSPELL operational planning not

heretofore reported.

In a series of letters written by the AMSPELI

national coordinators in exile to their opposite numbers in

PBRUMEN on 20 September, it was indicated that:

1.

Negotiations by AHHINT;? in Caracas, Costa i'ca

and Panama are practically completed for

ANSPELL operations base.

(Letter from Bernabe

PENE tO AMHINT-40)

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

11. AMSPELL has levied intelligence requirements on

ANHINTS In PBRUMEN for sending out

on PBRUMEN ports that can be attacked from

(Intelligence Plans Numbers 5, 6 ard 7, in

a letter from AMHINT-39 to "Jesus",

National

Coordinator for Intelligence.)

111. In the interim, reports on dariel, Cabanas, Bahla

Honda, La Habana, Matanzas and Cardenas are re-

quested ón a continuing basis.

OASSITICATION

PAGE NO

S-E-C-R-E-T

CONTINUEO

3

HIBR

---

## Page 5

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C.-R-E-T

UFGA - 61•10

530

: 101

Subsequently, En an incoming pouchhand probably

crossing with

the forcgoing communications, a series of letters

National Coordinators in PBRUNES reported a severe blow

to AUSPELL- clandestine organization.:

JOre NEDINA Bringier

(""Mongo"), National Coordinator for Military Reception and Supply,

reported that AMMINTH1Qn(PBRUMEN National Coordinator) had been

(later reported as alested and being hold at G-2

Headquarters

5 in Miramar.)

Also, "Juan" and "Miguel"

were arrested in Havana.

Several others

describe security measures implemented and report on

a re-organization of the

National Coordinator

closed with a plea for a small shipment of small arms for defensive

clothing and medicine,

and a full-scale propaganda effort if

ANHINT-10 should be sentenced to summary execution.

In this

same pouch, the National Coordinator for

Propaganda, Nicols PEREZ Diez-Arguelles ("Jose Alfredo") rendered

a detailed report on Agit/Prop assets in PBRUMEN. The printing and

distribution of "Trinchera" has been moved up to

every fortnight,

and efforts to get It printed on a comercial printing press in

Havana appear to be successful.

Regular couriers are being trained

for delivery of the newspaper to the provinces.

PEREZ ^180

reported their progress in mounting two clandestine radio trans-

mitters for Agit/Prop purposes,

one in Las Villas and one in

Havana.

These are powered by 110 volt generators usually found

on a small farm.

It is projected to transmit a regular propram,

probably entitled "Tele-periodico Trinchera".

The report does

not explain what counter measures wilt be taken to prevent GoC

detection.

Finally, PEREZ describes an Agit/Prop progrim already

in progress:".F1r8$

a plan for printing and marking wnlls with

their organization abbreviation, carried out in one operation,

synchronizing municipal and borough teans for the Job letters will

follow-up phase, large cloth banners bearing the same

be raised.or tended in congested areas and photographs taken for

publication in "Trinchera"'.

Also, with the ald of their Intell1-

gence Section, AMINTs have penetrated two radio stations in

Havana and are

identifying all Sov/Bloc personnel employed

there,

their security practices, audresses and routes

for commuting.

2) Iotal ANHINT Support for September 1962: $5,000.00

(Included in ANSPELL General section of this report)

3) Intelligence Production:

(Reported In AMSPELL General Section.)

4) Development & Plans:

(See this section under AUSPELL General of this report )

C. AMBARB

During the reporting period no changes occurred in AMBARB

personnel assignments.

With the

exfiltration of ANHINT-53) from

PBRUMEN it is hoped that it will be possible to negotiate with

AMBARB the still unsettled question of AMBARB. funding.

report further to Headquarters

as soon as an agreement is reached

with AMBARB on funding of AMBARB representatives in the field by

local KUBARK Stations.

For the present it can only be said that

AMBARB leaders are strenuously resisting any effurt by JMWAVE

to increase to more than eight the number of their people whom

they will permit KUBARK to furd directly rather than through AMBARB

Heädquarters in Miami.

The inspection tour of AMBARB-16 to delegations in

Latin America resulted in the general. report. forwarded for your

information as Attachment D: in leading this report, it is useful

for reference purposes to examin'Attachment E a report which the

AMBARB office has prepared on its general progress since inception

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CLASSIFICATIONN

S-E-C-R-E-T

CONTINUED"

PAGE NO

4

15/BR

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASTIFICATINM

S-E-C-R-E-T

DISHATCH SYMELA ANO NUMERO

UFGA-6140

of the AMBARD

As Attachment f we forward a special

report prepared by AMDARB-I6 On AMBARE mailing operations cap-

abilities.

Individual reports on the activities of AMBARB overseas

delegations are forwarded in the following Attachments,

Headquarters may wish to bring to

the attention of KUBARK Ares

Divisions or Stations as it deems best:

G.. Bollvia

н.

Brazil

I.

Costa Rica

3.

K.

Chile

Colombia

1e.

Ecuador

м.

Mexico

N.

Pannma

0.

Peru

• Uraguas

Venezuel

as Attachtent MBARB salary schedule for September 18 forwarded

END OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO

---

## Page 7

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echerertis cos tus idoas en marcho

SALARY - 1-30 Septerber, 1962

DEPSiDANTS ALLOWAiCES!

Dependants - Alberto Hulle: (Ia Isla de Pinos)

- ¡iquel Lasa (IT iatrusion)

.

Rodolfo Vidal (=arana Ups.)

-Jorge de Arisis (5%0 in Isla de Finos)

US$ 200.00

200.00

200.00

225.00

US$ 825.00

DRE EXECUTIVE AND ADVINISTRAZIS:

Luds Fernandez Rocha

Jose M. Lasa

Fernando Garcia Chacon

Jose A. Gonzalez Lanuza

Ejo Mas Hernandez

General Fatjo

Raquel Lavilla (Cecilia)

Ronnie Bamos

Zoresa Daidos Hurtado

Teresa

Mvira Weiss

Mercedes Ramirez

Luisita Esquiroz

Lula Santos

Sec. General

Soc. Propaganda

Sec. Actas

Soc. Relaciones Interiores

Sec.

Planificacion

Sec. Finnanzas

Asto Inteligecla y visas

Asto Propaganda

ista Propaganda

Ist. Archivo y Propaganda

dst. Rel. Internas

falephone

dst. Rol. Internas

Ist. Propaganda

Usy 275.00

275.00

250.00

322.00

275.00

275.00

180.00

200.00

150.00

150.00

150.00

150.00

110.00

100,00

US $2865.00

SUBSISTEICE ALLONANCES PITTES CPS:

Ana Diaz Silveira

baria V.

de los Reyes

Isabel Alonso

carlos Bravo

Angelica Partinez

Luis Gutierrez®

Carlos A. muller

Asto Finanzas

US$ 200.00

asto Archivo y trop.

120.00

ist. Informacion

170.00

st. Propagand:

80.00

st. Finanzas y visas waiver

100.00

-alegrafist

150.00

Ast. Propaganda

125.00

US$ 945.00

19-126-36/3

ATT

---

## Page 8

14-00000

1R1

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

joso antonio echevarria con tus Ideas en marcho

- 2

MILITAR INFILTRATION OPS TRAINING.

Bernabe Pena

Gilberto Alenan

francisco Calvet

Carlos DiQuesno

Flol

Angel A. Fontanils

Francisco Garcia

Julio Jo

Carlos Obregon

Lesmes Ruiz

•naldo Santa Cru

nesto Fernande

Julian Comez

azaro Fariñas

rine Torre

san M. Salva

Isidro forja

M11tar

Cord OPS

US$

Trainee

Trainee

Trainee

Trainee

Tra1nee

rainee

Trainee

Trainee

(Tele)

Irainee

Trainee

Traineo #

11

Trainee # 12

l'aritime - Militar

Trainee # 13

Maritime - M111ter

Sec. Asuntos Militares

Iraines # 14

Rosp.

Asuntos Navales

Traineê # 15

Traineo # 16 (Jiaral)

In Cuba (his fazily)

Asto Militar

Asto

M1l1tar

Ast. Sec. Aasuntos Militares

275.00

150.00

175.00

125.00

325.00

225.00

129.00

120.00

170.00

200.00

150.00

200.00

250.00

100.00

100.00

100.00

375.00

100.00

200.00

200.00

150.00

200.00

125.00

130.00

100.00

US$ 4365.00

Dependats Allowances

US$

825.00

DRE Office and Exocutive

2865.00

Subistence Allowance

M1l1tar Inf. Ups. Training 4365.00

US $ 9000.00

Responsable de finanzas DRB

---

## Page 9

14-00000

IRSANARIUNAL SBCT

WATH OFEICE

1 Ssiarjo 171z H'elo

"arlo Pita

jarcis

ävello Loy üerraniez-

Alda Rodri *uez

121102-

lar'arita is-uiroz dartinez-

RADIO CENTRAL & OUUTE ARUNICA

re.ro Ynteriar vsrcia

→ clara Aaverez rereg

PINTOURANE N-RAIT.SOliT

3) J0e I. Rodrl uez iOb1lla-

Jo:quin t'artlies de rinillos

10) Antonio Abelià Csluerin

ARGBNCIN

11) Rocello Hels VItal

12) Alejandro sortes cortada

BOLIVIA

+71 +-510-20042-5177370 sttrtog

t4) b7fo 564407058766555

15)

Jose Adolio Earro iarcla---

BR:ZI4

16)

Raul Gonzalez S1zon

Carlos Valiesuso Rogrizuez

Jo3e Vera "iie:a

10) Guillerno Asjer Valdes

=C)

Pesro Castello

2l) Benlto Diaz Feret

22) Jorje üuerra cierra

25) Carlos Bedlas vagquez

CHILE

++ 177391-44699j09s718

Raieet wsytross zavate

isttotts tesa itilaaiio

27) Lils i1 uerag Isides

CHRYUEGA61YO

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

wwtwww.w4r4.

jose antonlo echereria con lus idous sa narcho

LIALE SO AJSIST 1:E2

CAYTOIL :OST.1

p3t69

875-0, Air Aieg 62

$325.00-4

250.20

$200.00-

--#170.20

-Coorsinitor-

jirb-coprul:i.tor

onitacta ¿inece

jecretiry

FTypist

-iranglator-

jilb-coorsicacor

-risat secreiary

Sub-Coordi.ator

-rtioto

Iaci-.

rnotograpuer

malting VIss

--altirg

I'or visa-

sast 1if1

=ecentver 171---==

-maltin, to be sriroves-

→Nctober l0:1

waruary

1562

wuctober

15cl

-jecember

15€.1-

1662

--Jino Is€2-

--Jecenter 1:61-

--siting

to ce ipproves.

istater- liil

way1579---==

Tin0 1962

==

-lovecter

1:€1

- 7275.00-

- 120.00-

$300.00-fig t2

1250.00

200.i0

-350.00-

1300.00

5220,00

1:06.00

1200.20.

#150.

-$200.00

$200.00-

1200.CO-

8200.00-

$200.00-

#350.00

9250.CC-•

12zlalino

2390256-20-----

395.60-54

--=2C0.00----

19-124-2613

---

## Page 10

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

8023339

joso antonio acherertia con lus Ideas en marcho

COSTA FICA

31

¿vello Companioni Estera

68 80)

jor e tier-ida irenas

1830)

Jullar. Osante leriandez

6/ 31) Armando del tozo

35)

COLO PLA

J0s0 do duerra Rodriguez--.

Andres

la Rosa--

talson iglerico setter votres

Rolando Castaño

-October

1961

-October l0c1

-July 1962

-Uctocor 10€1-

-Jannary 1562

january

1962

•lay 1962

-Junucry 1962

~200.00

1200.00

$250.00

#275.00

200.00.

#200.00-

#: 9++ 5515-540505585

Francioco raied ccail1-

10: DURIS

33) ternando Arco leriaisez

30)

Eduardo Toras

ferres

NEXICO

11)

12)

43)

Jor e vorticos irleri

l'artin

"oria Arrecica

Carlos

cercia solor

PAN'A

64) Torre :cral utla Fanirez

jor.e

tanter calcia

PERU

- 46) Rolardo Fernandes correstra

47)

restor Carpareria in'el

42,

19)

sixto Riciales dos

Ricardo iubiales

REFUBLICA PO E TUASA

50) Pablo Acar a8

51) Dello forze lez

anittop in

-january 1902

30.

00.00-

dalting

to be approved-y225.00-

-alling to be arproved-4225.00..

-lioventer 1961

-daltina

for

0138

-altin:

for visa

-Octoce? 1961

kay

1S€1

'ario Carcia Sonbala

52 )Armendo Frias

54 )Rene ¡'orato Fontera

Uctober 1961

October

1061

for vise

-altine

for

viga

•''ny 1962

-multing for vi3a

-July 19E2

-July

1962

-Si ly

1962

5200120

130.00--

2200.00-

1250.00---

1200.00-

7275.00

300.00

4250.00

w20o.co

1200.00.

$250.00

$250.00

4250.00-

$250.00

$225.20

---

## Page 11

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

lose antonlo acheverrio con tus Ideas en morcho

ГНАТЕО!

VENEZUELA

Rafaci P're::ols fresreda

5? )

Jose Gonzalez Lloronto

58)

Lorenzo tartin Hodriguez

59)

L19 Boza Dorir. ves

Ricardo Mojr1..es Jimenez-

61) Ramon Calero Rivero

---

F2) Roberto Projo jovo

Soptowber 1961

547991

•iverior

12E1-

-jovember

1961

-june 1061

Day 1961

1962

пз у

1961

-275.00-

7215000

-200.00

200.00

200.00

200.00-

200.00-

200.00-

$ /2,240,00

TOTAL A OUNT INTER TIDIAL PAYROLL, RECSIVED LIVE WAYS LATE

ON SEPIL: EL" 1962.

IXT

NR.

AL FINANCE

---

## Page 12

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

a josé antonio echeverría con lus ideas en marcho tessa

-SK2

irli: tue racout

mitrice, tio regalta

gen.dl1..

31201. 201.10l01000a

in intin

1X1 4F

•il to crua

icie rarorica to w0.

-or tue botter unacrate:d?r.

sitio a leg-

mite rencued, du mill non esplain the mein eucn sole atlan visit-

ca.

ita.er..

verealcia cos concli tula syste: agli

D:1ia

ti: 110p9

miniseared

Co: 08t232 Ny 6.10

in venerdeln.

Attro d1

,100

lettaro nas sont wirta

one mondi,

iron

ago dine, arid dilj,

carneis

miglitis,

mid tron carantolsato unother.

ill socurity mano ite suniled doant tucg le cono by ilitorat corcons

condiclors torto.

ChanE Barto Voltos

poet olfice anglojces sr: so low tat. ter

craps tros

aier uve not deen nurked, io coll diem, mue crei

toy destrog the lact.rod

Wey sert 1,500 letrois dirla, ey, June, aii iilj.

io 10l no dele s-

mile dag the propa

cre Suprisoneu or e coen erecatodo ney sunt 1,000

lottere.

üti i 0766 U7666:40

19-12y-31/3

---

## Page 13

4-00000

• DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

3S485453253

772.202223

a josé antonio echevería con lus idaas on marcho 859583323

kepto- le

liet of adaresses did to le ticklolgly cacckod ip, bocasse

r21:9, 9:9

t:"

11 10 m10 dad

clauddy

In the inder-

idoris

:11re39ed to tiem could,

corse dentis,

piace tien under r.it aner.

A.U.is

---

## Page 14

14-00000

3.

WllO A-l!

1A DOW РАЇНІМЕ.

he will deraralne AISIrlh polloy

na ai:rorod by

8h+

"A't:

lnduelro (oa118100. licrerer.

1!18

notlrilie. of

1H9 1aBt POU.

M.ntho

veroplanged end eritrodien dy Milit Elillaod nsstatina

D1З NATO A41'NTÓ! M MADODO VEYA, MnO V.TO jrOrOnE "l lilo BRetIng.Altor

1h0 A:HlHN dlacunaioni

Bhe neudlng lurned uhlo o loig dlge.asina of

the

lutomntl.nal. Comminlad altuillon.

OI'YOKY, NIBARX BDG

11sttld polloled no

rolatod to 8hlo

o18:al10no yone of tha rolerorshy llos8 rovoglade

AlSPBLa bad sho 28 Auxus8 llarana ablack plas for alx suntho, bus

had aholred 18 for tho

"rIRhe t1sa" and

mniolderod deolafon

D08 te enuara upos a oourao Indopondent of BLILRX approval. .tho

sór/ulao bulldup obangod thas doolalon.

D. AMSPALL aNAlYZOS

the alluation as houolosa for tho PBRIMEN

rOTOlUtIOnALy novOdenia allor four murlha boodudos

* hat!

Io Tho Sovlesg uill

ue tiraly astatedlabod snd ODYDK polloy ae

deflunal by GPIltau tencia covard and vill probauly

result 1n

a houtaphere no eptaçco of llllIyEN aa a sacollito.

So Aizor four montho,

tho dexrod of volloe controls, rapragdlon

and peroocullon vill nato any Intornal solion

roslarando and guorrilla

MarfATo virl ally lapogalblo.

•. AMSPPLL PeOlS thIR UDYOKE pOlloy on PBl: MPN cannoe be Influenood

bagan wiin Cheatos low5s.

d.

Thla giluallua.la.nog.an.ortg1nsxAY3PYLu obanryet100.During

hl8 Furopean pravol In Auguss, AllilAT-2 veas to tho Vatloan

POr A neosIng (olniau,l to

be high leral) voloh hri seon arrangou

Bome tlan ago. ida laptosolon о bhinaino 1n the

World Comnunlat advanos

WAg ChAS ODYOKS OF FAPHIME NIS CO lOOgeT

oaloulated as an offeotito pover sor defosdino the vorla aralant

CoBal takoover. That the Caliol10 Churob vas vegiaalag tho 1oag

proonas of prep:ring sheir soroed lor a uir ld doninatod ty

Coumilnl2n.

AB a roBule of their obserrationa and analyalo, A'SPiLi hna assurod

a "uor or seror" attltudo and polloy. They feol bldy sual r-pore lo esotlos

thal mOla PURRIMe puullo opinica dod Urlng prrayuro to loar un ml•yukf anl

DiIDEAL fUr MOBIOO

1n the YORUMiY alrundlon, Lalin Anarloa must alao bo dapt

auaro ind urgod to supiort in aotlon. They mould lope that such an aMsrszL

polloy.and rraultand.aotiully vould not do intirproted do apiositlon or

POSEILIBY tO dUlAIK Or ODYOKE,

and that their KlllAliK relatdonghlp would

anurira lhe orillcal aintho bofore thea. thoy rcoogniro

BhaE KUilARd Ia

oouad dy polloy and burdoned by tha bureauoraoy.

and fool that the 80110ng

- sitlough independont

and

uncontrolled - of AMSPFLL•IRDE COMCTIDUBO

en sha tormatloa of aotlon polloy la PUPUMEY, deBulto coneternatlon

1n.

ZRA7. TAMO

BNH

5/BR

---

## Page 15

14-00000

<.

A.li-d, go leial:e

'. "A

iierix

8 SOptOnDIT 1902

1000-1880

Тіротор іваслиа, Сотя. Іів'! d.

Ilarold R. NOTMAYA

01

The sooline Mieh AMilutlalune do olarlsy eha eoselnulre asouniioa

Meanding and

ВІВДЕГОРТАДЕ ВОРЕ ЗВАВВ РИВОК.

•talne vnd dle freaeas prarded, and aclisee aled su eoe ne ws

10t agrood that dilaiaolat:8 one dor'a pay all

AlLiBS, b e ouly die

cüttt!s.

d1ehous going övor ti.

tire evalation of tim AMinll projecE &ia1lra, 11

n lute ooneninee e vo no eine funi lonayx Maustroune in

conventanco,

viilon do oporito,

althonah i8 aay not bo enbirely

satlafa.dory do ellher si

Foor 1or dio (u)ma, a

tiA SOllouing grouni tulos turo arrirra

AMHAle agsIgnod a8 Overt AlSPilL rupregenditiveg uill do fuin!

by AMSPELL tron 11231 on

all turure asgignaents. Thuno nou bolng tunded u>

BEnElOn vill rorsin a Alua qua.

urocossing, lnth

COVUrE AMHARAS for sLation ountane will ba maignod by taldo!!::

pardlod. agrood, and suagion w1ll lund and co:trol.

Re tho sour panding.ordoo uhera aiationa hnve roquest a lisidin.

an B0Os aa posBlblo -

a moeting la to bo hold whora dach onso vill do

conalderad indiradually and doosded upas.

2. Uhila thia arranzonent

no! entiroly aorepdable..sd

Jellev

thas upon tha retura os all litisaito tho oporasional ooutrol.

&о&te

arrangAdeDE oan êo nade.

01

(40(645656140

19- 124-10013

АТТ

[615R )

---

## Page 16

14-00000

DIPECTORIO REYOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTA

n.tcaH.hhah.0.14.671145

1 jose antonio echeverria con tus idess en mercha

jULJBI. junido iuilal trip to latin adorica.

ot 1s alued in nutratin: brierly tue results of ir.

tdu.rdo

Ia recent tri: to

several

countricg oi latin

limurica

carried tarous for be carpose ai visiting tuo üor... vele atlong.

a1ll outline toe Inpressions

outine lesser me ree and te folate

ütheres

throu mout

countries accoinin

is the order in

malcia tuey vere visites, ant

then into the rolladin: asjects.

¡o- ictusi sitution of the celestion

2o- veilotencies

Co- suture

osslullitles.

i.- ictual situatloi di the vilestion.

Irdoubtedly

ine best see deed amonde is a venertela 13 &6 present

There are cany reasons for mnic tals Delecutior. as roacned

to occupy

the jirst place

In

tue suln suerican plan of the said

juring

then to they are one folloiing

l.- it 13 laentisles nith the nacion's

grouleng

and national

2125.

- jessori cooraination and unity in one acconglishuent or

labor

sense di dity and & sailful plan of labor intelligently

or. srized.

Consecretly, the doit, no vele ation at jenezuela nag succeeded

In attainin: sula prostige

for t.a

rectorio revolacl.narlo is-

tudlentil croa

: toe most represent tile elements and institationg

or the Verezuelan people a reeln their ideslg

with ourg.

Tie cen-

tral nans ereas

6i30 dorado velegation

at venerucla

1s located

1r. Cir'9C.s.

i: is : saall jfrice

situated at a central city soint.

19-104-2613

---

## Page 17

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIDNARIO ESTUDIANTIL

•joso antonio echeverrio con lus ldous en marcho.

vid Aulacaldo, a tortrer: clty Ji

vene ucla,

mier the airectlin di doberto tre o;

Maron colora, ard

¡icardo coursez, dia the daler due la sar.unga siretò.

under

e tre contral dirice de tuo da erre ston in dereziela

tre diriction ol naisel arcaols,

vele jaie of the d.r.s.

in verezuelaruose diuch consalia sloret:, borenzo

der=n, Jодjü1в

and ilo soca are aclicit: ioril...

eretta a daily radio tradesantes luits for 30 -ales?

n130

in caracalto the doiodo trauaulis a radlo broadcust

re diventa con entecte o con tracal tate ara eso neor

50sp di action

tne co:drilet parto irlad to barn ilta Molotor cosus

radio stütiin .c. trangalt tie croaucast)..

The labor

acconclisned li tie DpRos. in the studere field is

ol vital incortance.

it gresent tile

cole cation is bie iossiollity

ai novini enouc jorces in à iciinitive nonent to conterad comiaist

acalon Inside to inivargiti rile 1g totally controliss li Continises.

.e can do joint out as ninl; laporturt tue so -calisà "-ersonality

- bullaini coursea" dulca pere created bi ce cerberg se tae d....

and unicr

gie carries turou, tosaj que to intinato cos-eration, anon;

e dore.

nererons Each sroverment,

=:e Cristian social Farty and eccleslascical

these coulies lust for approxiaatoli sre neck sod

lis for

uecroxinately..re weer tad al'e

enerally

2a8

attendants cro 11n0gt sliuys

io nore tiran 35 ard

sre

Bucciared durina

Ja0 reck to serono military discipline ano intersivermissirinatio:

mica lusts intil

r:1.125.g

tie Ectivitlua oi tos

ioneral isseably in inici

the resilts attained jurin

da; are

iiccugsed.

¡nad the oppuruming to agsigt personall: as oue or

taese

courseg malca due cuirs

_Ivon by sicardo sodalies,

oi tue doroã.

SC:. 14r.030.

ceresinas,

efiectg a.is

influeaced recali an ue consoliaation di dus senocratic

systen in veneziali.

•e coild nun toll di ane mi obier activitlee si te selecation

e:t sould risult uneniino Past 13 indy de auve enli pinted out cre

nost Importanto

E.- veilciencies

Dela ation at venetala diesances to da

nade by tie rest di boe dele cüione,

13 i will englaia Curtier si.

It 19 that tue delezation dus deen an several

ader endtione?

rengures coulvated by cạo iar.e cerious di tle 10 1a3 goe turaia

---

## Page 18

14-00000

IRI

DIRECTORIO REVOLIC:

ANARIO

joso antonio artererria con lus ideos es marcho

ESTUDIANTIL

with e visits by argore or the Center Cellce of Tara t'-nal

PT2.02.012

asked through 1l 1ts Inpers more ire.arat visits in order to

avoid

a feciln of forlorness tiring our comar strucrle.

C.- Future possibilities

The DoRry, his hure furao pissibilitiis in Tene-nol.

The pres-

tige it

-ctu ily ha

-are the peorie i inside rotarent

sir=

cles orengne: fields ::=

neir future

in all the aspects.

will synthesize these misleilities in

•le

tie folloin? points.

1- Nore "per-on'litin'in" coursses in ord'r to toucle the

nimber of Venezulia salonts receiring them.

COne From to Cente coster as naste eatenther

ut from thie Cente

3.- Increase in the patri nda

4,- Spreading of activiar throughont all the States : tor country.

---

## Page 19

14-00000

1R L

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

61559

foso anionio echeverria con tus ldoas en marcho

5824T Lo-

For iño botter ardersteralri si euu situution of the ors

1n üruall, no

will ilist consider

tre 3etlailinl di the SH d0-

le ütlun

ut irlo de Janeiro da tuer ène lubor of the velo stlon

sao tadlo.

is northy ai ull pralse.

In sullo di tue lalosphirusy di tue uraz!llan people ind

ce gerlaignusa di tao lnterior sitidion oi tue natlui, la

balicie tnut tus soie tion de croati tolloog cle dole atton

reasons sor tuls guccess lio loiios!"".

233 GEST

• Lo- Ine monborg oi tue Dele ation are fully laentilied

alta tus realty tro problans di to: cruzlilan caulon a

•y moli as in Venestoli there is"tean nori" end unity

on tue accongllonient ai laior.

the laide at brazil is the nordest to ce

caroles turos. 1,

collaied le Chila.

craillar people, snie are in

30704:4t

1, norant aront les

nose ccrlau3 pro lens

tie isrll 19 se:dalli encointerini, tue

jouerlii torcos al extre diet, tir desperate courgale

dun regiict di ciu

rd.il::

istregyad: du1cn dug nore t18" on-

co gi.sat

¿ruin the natin To civil is?,

une the reagong ior

Les arance ton de laude arte duce lha gecond

la ocratio acclori.

or approximatelj ane youi, cha dn¿ bele ailon at sa il:

¡? Janelro nus been gurusdi!:

@airst a:13 real difficult

situsilai, id que rasuits peinines cannat de botter.

atte retenais der les terren

je canairo tney interilered ce).

---

## Page 20

4-00000

DIRECTORIO REYOLUCIONARIO ESTUOLANE

jose antonio echererria con lus ideos en marcho.

...:

tiC Bilüdr.t

rold, iie datlanhl intah ai jiuder.ts

t:i0 1s50r

the

iClo

tIsa

ido dii belo ubes vero di purmittas to

si dan,

4.10

З::N5E

our novorett

ib-s sthrened usa, ile Erazlllan

clourly d1ajlu.uüg

unen several joute stilort

-106:8

1ol tre teucures talen

recentlys:

Frotestado muito clai baret to snou coturina e gucceeded

-„ico

siadoito solicitia.

•t te hisstri, todos inici dale baus racuntli lande

=sla::d.

In

t.8

Jon diu vele. allon ng ilrendi eslied tiroe

ranglets 1n

lida

reit

-ccertince dish.

"tae jes;le

inces; tsund revai.clon

li cullee sabado jood relaclie

Mutamis de nilos ascerde.

_ae tala dii...cue

to Relie,

Po-dailelcroles

triot.

Ine jenni 31t:"-

ilit modisgar li tue country is

woll as 1a

recende di 1e

delin.tron protasesd

vIsit encoure. eu tien

l'eais.

geriro

die vele.

For piu::

Foriinnese

norber to regrin: ir

mitiro rossiiiilulus

ara:ll toroshiy rotost to de aractiler

¿overnient becs:'

iado. serce di cuberdo udle in the country, algo dider

iowaver,

they arc.

ho-conilsie cultino camuleos di pliaes for the pesple

---

## Page 21

4-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

Joso antonio acheverrla con lus ideos en marcho

all tie Cutan probler.

jenis tid

wele. ties to Ruelle for tao next viest or

Presidont renneuy to cruall.

3o- tirlorn several tripy tarou cout tie country in ordr

to astralllan croups of gapport.ra lu tue aliforent glaces of

the talisi

i.- ittalnin:; oi

& rudly broadcit.

Intensify

!?.

lütor at the donder cle

student roupg

oriler

to eatine the nori

restore tie lai.d.

to our

decocratic c:u20.

---

## Page 22

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIAN

•Jose antonio echeverria con lus ideas on mansho

Ano cuso oi t:e

olo dele. iclon at dao asolo aulen 19 composed

jontales ulron liu

Ein be conalderod

59

a:!

exce;tloriul

cuso testoo tho Latla tirlein clano

In jao

tho

oraurtunità to mold deo!

caversitlong alt.

ti.d

contalez plagn, una de rescrid ut le collarIni conclagiura.

1.- Iil one

wisolo jear the did deleation di juo caolo did dot

accord. and drudetis

Lili, sotaing nas

cech rabligied ty tou

cele:ation.

nst ono ol time

co..al. ag

the jectlon

or Intornati.nal dolatling .db ter.crried tarou.

cciolle itas di ti .Ra Jele uce at sa,

Paolo,

naul contalos ji..d:

cortiler

itti the convorgitions

il ot mr arrival at wlant

senter of the voliution at dns ruolo, se reacied it tie

sailodin: conclusione

non jurin; ore jear no ettuccive labor de coon accomplianed

la tue city di duo suolo do Sue babia croble.

Po- ilmo dus been sustui uslusaly to obtain unty us a result

a 3o.ndinj l'illure.

¿la motives for tals l'alluro cai be outilred is lollous.

Jon sle Dilo Nelecitua l1l suo ciolo nuve bee: suonated to ii:

arolciary direction oi

ro mullnir lidosaantä, director

e jadolo lourvlie di intor merlon sealegt)o luting

cie duole jeud alololton die dole dies io porti in the

nume of tiro dang

subalecle tued tos lador syster inica

cio uo ilin tue busen procles.

saint dut that ior

the Chancehrs " Conference

eld at rinca del inte, giscial tunis was teen seulcated

Io one Cubati case.

ucore tuto, reatinin, tang arouderil tie

con Tue Dis dele stey uif not tare in tira tra decision of

vorkin: Independencli

in order to

410202:113d

ild congerenti?,

castlanen

abatoreatoretaia

jigore iltea or. unigm salon 13 ::0

nan entirely

pocoio

2288 n0sg1r1l1tlee.

Suta in. Ranl Jorrales jinon ani "r

albonla ved aro

to contil.e

torines

ilen tio Sabai.

sor sucn end,

io donzalee jino!

andre antonid ro.i sia

riparin

nineroug

a. jetalled reports mica will arenly disolose

talen by do aladiate ayaoshani, ior dia:

tire

attitito

cas asei the

---

## Page 23

4-0000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO.

EST

UDIANT

lose antonlo echorerrio con lus ideas en marcho

¡ands desticed to the Cloun caso, uls repeated

bojcott to evory-

tning

wnich nolis

tire

name of tie job,

inü tie little labor

accomplished tarou .dout tie jcur.

In the report walch is being

by tiro haul vonzales slinoi,

a clan or labor to to curried

taroun In jao taolo vill do presentel.

ise Jre well engage

tO

accomplis:

In f montis a superfor labor tho: that accomplished

by the

contacts

jasolo durIna reced lun ure

viole yeur an the cuba problendoos

well

arra d for such eids

tojother ilth

13.

tuo reporta all be prosanted as soon as facia

---

## Page 24

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

32894522

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

"on ictual ritu-tion of the Deleration

haun the do Delerates in Ururary, lario garci. end trundo trias,

1ve hain in Montoildeo for scarcel:

one end half north, they are

innine to carry throunn a vory nositive labor which nromises to

pear splonlid fruita.

e must have in mini thit anti Castrist pro-

paranda his

idely circulotrs throthout trurusy.

Up to the cresent

Baratt nunber of nublle ots have been hold and 1t results difficult

to move public orinion on the Cuban problem, sinee 1t is somewhat ex-

haust??.

roverthelss?,

the nions thich hove been worked out till!

streptler publie orinton on this ashect.

uilne my stay at Ururuay

the voting compalen for the elections

ing u1ll br hold on nost Nov

ember was leing carried

through.

Thus It as rathor difficult to

turn tie attention of puhlie orinion tolaris te Cuban problem.

ever, in order to reinitiate

Hori-

the labor,

the Delerition has 'orked out

a plan chich will list for one month

no end "rith a freat public net.

Thile I vas there, 100, 000 leaves of propag nia exhorting

che peonle

to eipress their protects for

the

presence of tussinn troops in Cuba

into distrlbuted throurhout the city.

11so a monitortation chich

took place the 8th of Segterber

in front ot thr Cuban Tabassy was

organised.

The dele ration 1ll shortly begin to edit a neis bulletin

mich "ill te sent to the Press,

sadio,

TV, to political, civic, and

religions lerjers.

1ls0 . trin

throughout

the different

cities of

the

contry in order to strengthen tie contacts ie already had there

1s cel:

planned.

in the stulent fiold,

the Jelerition is striving to york

to achieve

unity in

the grouns of opposition to the:

"it Federütion of l'nivers-

1ty Stilents

if Uruguay) by creatin" a cormon front ant thus move out

the Cannunists: hich

control fully the leading nosition or the seuu.,

B.- Inticlorcles

The delicioncies of the Deleg'tin it Ururu." con be considered s

little

mort'nt due to te

f-et that it has been functionin? for.

"ny

- fe: reeks ond this does not peroit to see thines cle-rly and jurge

then hor they re'lly are

In a rocese of corsolid ton at all securine, for nich son its

deficioncies conrot be fully observed.

c.- riture ressibllities

The DR Delegation •E Uruguay his hure rossibilities mich ie sellev

'ill be set mined during the nert fe: gis

In :0d1tien to the neis

alletin and the trip throuch the diffant citles of the countriesides

onc-hour rdio brodest nd new public •cts re being planned.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

PIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUOIANT

a jose antonio echoverria con lus ideas en marcha

the Delerition 1s

intercated

orking torethor tha prour of statents that are

In cre-tig

the DIEU (Dircotoria Revolucionario Estudies-

til of l'rucury).

---

## Page 26

IRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTII

3 30 013043.73

jose entonio achieverria con lus ideas en marcho

2112

°^1.10539

Tomorr

1057-

or?n71n-

Iлiaт.

1.

Pri:lts.

the

→???

smaller -rout

с.">

L-t 1n

.C2

le outrtanding

:1.9-27

a=12

10',9p9

79919991e

torte great

In piron

r1p..,dpnm

Tact

tired terrorint

sampater.

trapulted-

and wet

1929-1-

44..

>041.

franchort

(9949909003717e

materineer

Trian

miss non

...

.8...m

2:?10

'='?

n7.r

rule mandeart in

-• 143.

eat 19t0991ty

?.- sortet-nelas

ê omented ocearlone tle toleratton har lui to rice "an dIrtrurt?el

titude tien

1:n00rr.

ir

initiation

1222329094-291979

the Del9a-

in 1.9? 97?11

coot in: lon.

g..s.0.ro

499?9-01493

persite

Daletitiin

-ecoeder

1г

tually fully oring.

C.- tuture merrillities

to 20. ins

manolalone in ?.

Mat mined

at targ

In 5:1lc.

d..

e.-

1.-

the tamaon.t

i clartin-

-=-Ir.

nation.

itruinine ar?

-'÷9

tron"cart to

le magne throw hout the nation.

Granton nue alert!!→

instre thriconninitler and

the Torular

=?:9

=2n

carryin?

Culin

Thirs!

---

## Page 27

14-00000

E

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

lose antonio echeverria con-tus, ideos en marche

TETRO DUCTION

this report in a general iselyale on the labor performed by the Sectlan of

Interational Rolations of ise Irectorlo Revotiolonario Estudlantil (DR5)

aid ca lta plans for the setaro.

Hower, It would take nuch time to wate

a procise accouat on the leer scoopllabed in sore than one gear, so se

adll liedt 1t to be a general outline, hoping that in the near faturo a

nore dotalled one usy be presented.

STAL VIEY OF THE LABOR A OOKPLISHED

The DPE can firmly assert tos: the labor carried through by the Section of

International Relations bas bein a definite triumph for the organisation,

die to the importarico of toe ground of operation and the intenaity ad is

maich 1t has been dataloped.

It is not an easy task to organise In soch

a brief ters an internatical feld of operation Ilke ours, which bas

aLready born fraits and, in muly one year, ba: attained great renon, ora

outsido tho borders of or continent.

If all the motives for which su

DRE's latin American Plan bis attainad such succosa were to be outlinad,

18 Hould never liniano la are going to list those uhich me consider are sha

Bost important.

d. There can be no doubt sat the nost important labor has been tbe asa

developed by teh DRA Dejogates in Latin Azerica.

During many santis, the

economie support fires so the Section of International Relations vas 80

short that only with the roluntary sacrificas of our delegates in Istin

Americs could the sectior be kept in function. He can nane cocatless

examples of generosity aid sall-satrifica to our causes there vara

Dalogates tho, for mety sonths, slept in cots and even on the tloor,

others who lived sorroceded by a wretched atrosphere, and otbars too

even went hungry. Our calegates fought to undergo all difficulttles

and, many tines against bestile atzospheres, equipped only idth tseir

enthustasm and their ardert desdre to carry our truth throught aserios.

Tho serits of our enteralse belong solely to them.

8.- Maintain the DRE 1deast led tith the struggles of latin Aeries Stadents,

did thon we hava shared ideals and cooperation during this year.

I.- Haintain the DRE Identised alta the representative novenents in each

country, its fira positise. MIghting for the redonstruction of Caba,

crossing out Batists's ashorrent past and Castro's Inhuman present, aid

halding an understandas posture tosards the serious problems in latin

Amarioz, social injustios, oppression, militardan and ignorance.

To

bave sade also ours the longing for the ransoning of our contiseato

Ha have experienced all diás surrounded by gigantic difficulties,

laitations and, in may eccasions, incraprebensions by those noos re

had trusted. Moments & dombiartedness bare. lived nithin us sore than

ance, but our optrit bas salutatoad 1t3 Mriess at1ll hoplag tbas the

19-180-1643

---

## Page 28

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echoverria con tus idoas on marcha

pooplo of the world tonards our desperate calling any de some day achierod

and that they may strotch thats Irlendly hand to our pallent, but arect, people.

For the botter understanding of the labor accomplished so mall synthesise the

aain stopo takon by this section in the develop sent of the alosion the DRS bas

asatgnod 1to

QRI GIN. OF THE SECIION OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

The Section al International Relations nes created by the National ixecutive of

the IS in the montbs of November Deceaber 1960. Luis Bola Bordagues, ét-Prasident

of the Faculty of salonco of tho Uniteralty of havana, tas appointed for jEs

drootson on January 1963, HI. Eduardo lanis to orderer to one to Miant aird

as assigned the coordination of the DRE's labor in latin Anerica, Mr Musli

arrived on the 8th of sabruary, 1961.

THE FIRST STEPS

Before Huntz's arrival at Hiani, the DRB'a actiulty in the internationel ground

Has 90 United that 1t lackod Importance, even thought had sont a Dalogation to

the Chancallars' assembly which tas hold on 1961 in the alty of San Jose Casta,

Rica, and bad also sent a Dologation to Central America for the purposo of

establlshing contacts with student leaders in these countrlos. On the last dags

of February 1961, a DRE Coumission composed by Ernesto Pernandez Iravleso, Tera

sa valdes Hurtado, and Eduardo Munds mas sent to Hashington for the purposa of

delivering a lotter reitten by the DH as gemine representation of Cuban Studenta

to the president of the Undtod States John F. Kennody. This lotter was handed

to tr.

Richard Godidn (Be Ignore 11 it ever roached President Kennedy) It

stated the basis and Ideals which noved the DRE th fight the Castro rosizo and

the common inspirations which lod 1t togother with the rest of Latin inarican

Studenta tobards the anblovement I1 soclal Justice for tse peoplo of our

continent.

Despite all this -and for not1ves. which have not yot been given to us - during

Pebraary,

March, and April 1961, ve were entlroly restrained in the developsent

of our labor beseuse of the poor aduitanco given to our plan. Our labor sas

reduce to the sending of sona propaganda to latin Auerloa, to the organising

of tilos of contacts and organizations, and to the maintaining relations tota

then by nail. However, at the boginning of March 1961 the strat three DRE Do

Lagaylon in Latin Anerica were stablished: Costa Rica, Tenasuela, and Hard-

co. Thase Delegations peactically, receirod no econoude support for nore tren

Iive nonths. (they subsisted almost only by their on noans) and go 1ts labor

ugs reduced to the least.

TRON INVASIONS NEH OUTLOOKS

New possibilities in the latin Agarican ground mere disclosed then, on the

17 th of April, the invasion through Playa Giron ma defasted by the Coumunios

forces, denonstrating this the nistake unich the adanisiration of the unitod

Staïes bad perforeed in not relying upon continental publick opinion which had

been stallelly Influencod by Castriat propaganda, An objoctite glance on tha

---

## Page 29

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

83003

jase setonio achererria con lus idees en marcha

aotial reallir alarily ande tula knom to uis crisental opinion supportot.

tha castro neçase,

Laila lauricar youth behald fital Castro as the logenturo

Laador who sould sat se the latin suerioan peopla tomis their total esaci.

patlon and demispaci. Merle or nothin had bour sono to saco the aloillial

propa,ands. Tue peesibll1i1os of opening a battie sent agalnst Castrisa 1s

tho latin Aserises etatries - the fundamental palis of our plan - began to

be takon into cassijanilan. The first atteapis varos

L.- In May 1862, 055 sisbero Zo1la Dlas, Merla Iesa losdr1gu0s and Raul O00

zalos Staun tara sent to saa Paolo,

Breill, asd stayod there for one soath

carryxi& througà lebors of propaganda.

2.- Innodlataly after Alberto Hiller, Searotaga vesarel al the DRe, mas osasãt,

a Dalegation espasod by jorge Dortics, Rogelli jelu and Joaquin Peres 3a

degues, traniod termig Brezil, uraguay, Anuatira and chilo mortang to

avold the arosusior of our secretary-Doneral ty too Cestro rogine, Tos la

bor 1t accosplissad tagetbar táth the labor aucaplishod la otner cocailos

turned publle optaisa tonarda our causo.. "bea the Deletation arrivad as

Montevideo, Inueter, tha "Congresa por la Libertad y la Dezocracta " 52s

boing hold in tast city, and the balegation uss intited to take part la 18,"'

holling an autalasting posture in 1t3 acting.

3.- Innodiately after the trial od our Socrotery lecoral, Alberto Muller, and

other 32 prisoners sith his,

one al the atragoss and nost succesaral de

saigns no bare aromplishod, mas crried thragà lour calogations sary

argontly sass so latin anerics, organisod as denous.

Brazil - Raul denseles Sinon, Marlo Derala,

joss Basulto

Chilo - Naisia sauto, Alojandro Portes, Rafaal Ollos

Artentina Rogallo Balu, Jorgo Dorticos.

Uruguay - Eduerd: Mais, Reno Morato, Ramon Mastado

At the saro tro,

cables vere sent frau our wis sillce at liani to all

the goverisants of tha continent, Stadant Undoos, sal civle organdratioas,

maldag uso of sto consacts ne bad made by mail ton our loginnings. Tos

rosults of ta crasígo maro really astoniahíngo.. Aul the governients of

the continent plaajal in favor oi buller and toa other prisoners, almast

all the Btudess tridos, comiloas dive organtestions did the samo, padile

Ecuador, sad

ilgh Schools) ia Nonsavideo; Uruguay, sent os siriko on tha day of tha trial

ho Federadion Istidientll Unverstaria (FS], In Sonduras also rent o

strika for one dar, abrough the streets of Sea isso, Costa Rica, a graat

student manifestailos 139 sade, and tbe Poderad= Istudiantil Und versicaria

(FRUCa) propasoi so change Alberto Mullar fos sos braetor.

The labor perfasaal uss so effoctive that tralia: Ionesto Cho Quevara, 10

his Intervion viel president janlo Quadros durles dis stop at Brazilia so

turning fros ibo Goslarenche Interanerdcana Sesamica y Social ( CIRS ),

mas ssked Ina the Destillan doverment to spare lùs lives of Miller and

the other prisasars, ta mast point out that la sosocà pronounced by Quatara

---

## Page 30

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANIIL

jose antonio echorerrio con tus idoos en marcho.

10 tho ally of Haniazillo in Oriento provinco, Cuba, he stated that 1n hlo trip

through South hasties be had seen corteln atlsring in favor of a group do pol

sonora caugh in Gita. (He was out dantly talking about the campalen in favor of

Mallor) • This Carpalng alearly shored the great possibilities no had in ia

the Anerica and tsa urgent nood to carry through all tho sationa the great truth

Of what sas happetdag in Cuba.

PEVELOPMINT OP TEE LATIN AKONICAN PLAN

In Agust, 1961, too fust conversations to achlove the econoudo support for our

plan mora bold.

Fasy lasted for approsimately one month bacause so sore not in

socordance on peratal polntso: It tas docidod that permanent delegations vero to

be establishod 1s laill Anorios and for such purpose to nado a mall-atudlod and

dotallod plan in stica to exposed our opantos on bou to develop the labor through-

ont tho continent. Unfortunataly, many of tho points ma exposed la the plan vare

not approved (tion gave us after the rasson for as labor mus being developod 18

MiS naCOSsary to «fOre nasy of the points uníoà had once been rejocted) and no

bagan to dovelop sos plan through the linitod neans ye passessed to achiero the

objectives no has assignod ourselves. The main objoctiva in the firat plan of

the DRE WOrD!

A. - Make the DIZ kaom through continental publio opinion, princépally the

Students " 0çár100.

Bo- Make openly iccom the truth of what was happening in Ouba through all tbe

Beans uhich corle to useful.

Co- Stit publle opinion in favor of our causo.

Dologation were established in less than thres months in the following countrios s

Coste Rica, Venersela, Medco, Bolivia, Brazil (Sao Paolo), Peru,.

Later, Dalagationa soro establishod in Colombla, Bouador, Pana-

da, o dusu, a ela, Puert Rica end Santo Doadago and Brasil' ( Rio do Janeiro)

Ibe aotiulty unloided since then needs not be narratod, not only because 1t. would

taka mucht tas, but also because evident facto damostrate the importanco and

the disasion acclaired by the labor in the plan of the DRe for Latia Anerica, In

general fore me tall list none of the most important events diring this pariod of

time.

1.- 32th of Hereabees day Of duel for latin American Stydente in memory 2ê the

Studenta excited in Cuba.

At the IV latin Ancrican Assembly af Students

(CLAR) to vaLed a DRE Delegation assdsted and which me detail later on thie

raport, 1t tes decided to doctara the 21th of Norenber (date in whichl 8

students of leddaine were shot by the Spendab soldlero duing the Cuban nar

of Indopendesco) day of duel for Latin Anerican studento, This date saa

canenorated in alsost all the Latin merican countries, boing thia one of.

the flost great blons me achloved coordinataly throughout the continent.

All theà chi taich nare perforuad and the propaganda which mas lasued aro

Silod in car offico..

2.- Student mallestation in Costa Rica on the 1744 Of October. It mas possibly

---

## Page 31

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

joso antonio echoverrio con tus ideas on marcho

the greatest student nantfestation that his taken place in San Jose.

Chas 6.000 students asido: the soverment to broat rolatona nd ta castro moro

prosent at 1t.

3.- Tho campareA to savo the 11P0 el Manel Orala Armengel. Por thia campelga,

as moll as for the campaign in ravor of lullor, to appealad to every moano po-

salblo, this attaining the halp Iron the latin American Covornuenta and Leon

alsost all the Student Unlons and ollo orgenizations of the continento.

ho- the cannelon to save the lila of lana lenslor and duan Derelta (Luanin

As in: the prevous campalgas, be noved continentel publlo opinios in favor

of our fust demanda, Unfortunataly, our dear duan Porolra Varola mis Iallod

in the coast of Cuba, beföre the ploadings for mercy frou all places of the

•continent reached Castro and before the sacretary of Forelyn Relationa dI

8rqx11,

Pan Thlago Dantas, could Intersado for bla 11f0, as ho had pronised

JoJo I. RodrIguez, sitti shas he bad hold a privato intervion, Ibo uholo

socount on the labor we accomplished for this campalun and for the campaten

1n favOr of Miguol CrOiA Arzangol, 18 Slod In our offices.

So- Hale randorod to latin American Student Unfonso From the b latin Anericas

outlook, this labor has probaala been one of the most 1 portant labora carriod

through by our Delegations. During this your nany of our Delegationa Lavo

worked Intinataly with the deciocratio leadero of the student unlongot the

continent in order to throun the Comuntata out from tho positi:ns which they

control and to attain ancoess in studont aloctions of simply maintaia tho

actual positions bold.

Sam afforts which deserve to be named abes

The labor

aocomplishe by our Delegation in Fanana duo to which (acaording to the acect

nords of studont loadera 1r. Pazzza) the direction of the Undon de Estudiantos

Universitarios (VEl) Which bad follen i Comunis, control, mas reconquered

by too democrats. The labor accorpilahed by our Dologation at jenezuala has

• Ta tabc

oen perhaps the sos importart, through which student troups of the Partido

Socal Griotiano (COPTI) and the Partido Lecion Democratica (AD) havo

stronly apposed in arnodactions the Coumundst groupe which control the Unde

versity and hero aven roceived tho complimenta of President, Romilo Betencourt.

The labor accomplishod by our Delagaticn at Honduras, through which 1t has

halped and guided the donocra:1c admándstration al the Fodoracion Estudiantil

Unfversitarta (FEJH) and also payod far the publication af the nemspaper

"Avanco", official reporter of the fEll. The account on the labor carried

through by tho DRE togother with the Confederacion Univeralteria de 3ol1T1a,

the Podoracon Universitarla del Pori, with that of apportion of Uruguay,

Argentlas add Brasll and Santo Dosdago 18 flled in our offices.

6o- The system of propaganda of the Section ef Internatienal Roletions: Our

system of propaganda 1a mobadly one of the most atrong in the atudent

latin Auerican ground, in spide li the limited means to possess.

Oar labor

Il propaganda has been so Intensive that no have practically had to use a

larger placo, to file the propaganda the Delegations hava lagued and sent

03, No baro maintalned the best relations with latin American preas, zhich

frequently piblishes articles on tbe DEalso the Internati-nal news agenclea

(UPI, AP, etca): bave published osbles related to the DRE.

For the botter

understanding

of the labor dereloped we are going to divide it in written

propaganda and propagands by raddo broadcasts.

a.- #rittan propaganda

---

## Page 32

14-00000

lose intonio charerria con tus ideas on marcho

Hortcom

Tho nomspaper " Ataque'", official reporter of the Dalogation, 10

published.

Hany paaphlets, as the one about the 27th of November,

and tons of mitten propagando have been edited.

Costa RiSE - Posters and great amounts of

mitten propagands have been

printod and pasphlots adlied by our nain offico at liand havo

been printed again.

VenezyOlA • "Trinchera", official reporter of the DRS Dolegatica as Maracalbo,

13 edited in Karacalbo, The Delogation at Caracas has printed the

pauphiot, "Cuba, Moery and Hunger", propaganda which had been adited

In Hail, as the panphlet "Uire ld cono nos autodeberminanos", Pos

tors and tons of uritten propaganda have been also printod.

¡DEY •- meDale gation alde the odition of the ragazine "clamor", though not in

the nané of the Dre... The series of pamphlets " Seguirenos Informan.

ls o aro edited and also postera and lots of writton propaganda.

YEASUBJ.- The DRE Delegutilon at Uruguay edited the pamphlet "Cuba Comunista"

and has also odited a great amount of uritten propagande.

Ecuador -The telegation has aditod tho pamphlot « Eldel Castro tridos a Ano

¡ca", countless posters, and has* printed again propaganda received

Iron H1an1,

Brez1l .- The Delegation at Rlo de Janeiro has edited the pamphleta "Bases

para revolucion latinoamericans ",

"Quo as al DrE".

The Delegation

at sao Paolo bas also edited countless pamphlota sita photograph

Illuatratone.

Santo Domingo ~ Tha Delegation has printod lots of propaganda sent by the

main offico at Hand:

BOZIViE,

Calombia, Shile, Argentina, Panama, Honduras •- Those Delegations

has printed Propaganda edited by thi main offico at laal, also

posters and loto of propaganda, and bave regularly mritten artiales

In the press.

b.- Propaganda by radio broadoasta

Hondurego- The Delegation broadcata daily STrinchere" by raddo America,

Sento Dondnfe.- The Delegation broadcasts dally "Irinchera» ubich laste

admites by Raddo Caribe.

Yenozuela. - The Delegation broadcasta dally "Trinchera" ihich Lasta 30

minutes, by radio "Libertad"

Costa Rica. - The Delegation broadcast " Trinchera Estudlantil Crbana»

three times a week by " Voz de la Victor»

The Delegation broadcasts "Trinchora" thres times a week by

rado laramar .

Chilg.-

The Delegation

broadcasts "Trinchera" once a week by radio Chile

Bolivla. - The Dulegation

broadcaste daily" Trinchora" by raddo "Amauca"

Uruguay.-

The Delegation broadcasts " Irinchera" three times a week by

radio "Paral".

Colomble- The Delegation broadcasts dally "Tinchera" by raddo "Santa Pa"

Peru, Ecuador, Berto Rico, - broadcast weekly programs.

c.- Photographic propaganda.

Thore can be no doubt that the success attained in this Mel 19 of the

greatest importance.

The sain office has been supplying photograpbic na

terial to the delegations for several, nonths, so that they could use it

for propagand, A great blow was achieved with the photographs 1llustrat

ing the events at the Ecuador Babasay in Cuba, when three Cabans, seeldng

political sas1lo,

tried to enter the imbassy and vers shot by the ril1til

being already inside ¿custorian field. Theso photographa vere distributoc

---

## Page 33

14-0000

BRESIRE REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUOLANT

lose antonio echorerrio con lus idoos en marcho

-7.

among all the Dalegations and a day nas appolnted for their publication 1n

all places of the continent.

sane the photographs vere publishod In almost all the latin American newa

papere, and, later, they were even published in extra-continentel presa.

93222E

Thus, a great succoss nas achieved. This

It 1s of vital Importance to point out the suocess achlowed by the prote

graph achittle, organised by the photograph departrent of the Section of

International Relations. This exhibition nas composed of 30 enlarged

photographs: so:be shown

at public squares and organizations and were sent

to each Delegation, These exhibitions are still being shown in latin Ana

5108..

Thousands of persons have taited then and the success achieted

up-to-dato has been great.

To Intolliponce and sitation. During one lo ng year me bave received

through the Dologations nany informations on Castrist actiolties throughout

the continent, as well' as on Cormunist activities in general. Stirring bas

nofthor been absent - Ino Libraries of the Cominist Party were destroyed

In Monteridoo, a placa vere support for Fidal Castro nas recedved nas also

dostroyed in Montevidoo, and students groupe in Venesuela have been trainod.

THE CHANCEILORS / CONVERSACE

then the abancellora' Conference was held liJanuary 1961, there nas a plan

to turn publio opinion in favor of taking energotic steps against the Castro

rugine.

For this purposo,

the 25th of Jamary was appointed as the day in

which " la Marcha del Stlenclo! (The Silance larch) nas to ba carrled through in

the prinalpal latin american atles, to give support to the bonterence and protestd

for tha crimas accomplished by the Castro Comminist Regine.. The resulta were trut.

astonishing.

In Bolivia more than 20,000 people took part in "la Marche dol St-

lenclo", they all carriod lighted torches since 1t nas at night fall. In Paru,

nore then 10,000 persons were assenbled and in Quayaquil, Bevador, around 5, 000.

Also smaller nanifestations mere made in Honduras, Panama, Headco, and Colombia.

The DRE Delegation sen to the Chancellors l Conference lilted several countries

before arriving at Montavidoo, so as to develop in them the labor of propaganda

and organization prevlous to the events that would take placo during bho Confo

fence.

This Dalegation sas divided in two groups. The first one mas composed

by Juan Mo Salyat, Fernando Carcia Chacon, Jose Karla Lase, Eriesto forsandez

traveso, and dario pita. This group tated sole ten, callo, and Argentl-

B. The second group mas composed only by Eduardo Minis, who vialted Honduras,

lurine this trips, press conferences, inter

were hold. In Uruguay, the first photograph exhibition was skom in the Plaza

Llbartad, a gigantis seeting was held in Hontevides and four meetings vere hald

un other cities of the comtey (San Carlos, Pitlapolla, Hinis, and Haldonado),

pest bombs mere placed at the Comunist seeting In the University, press con-

ferences were held, and radio programs were broadcasted, all during the Confer

ence.

In a general fors, ve have esplatned some of the actlultles developed by the

Section Of International Relations of the DiE. It mould be impossible to des.

cribe then all completely.

---

## Page 34

DIRECTORLE REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIAMILL

joso antonio echoverria con lus ideas en marcho

INTERVATIONAL, STUDERT. ASSEMBLES

Ho are going to narrato separatoly the Isbor accomplished by the Section of

Intornational Rolations In the International student asseablies, for 1t resulta

•of great Importanco.

Tho DRE has sent Delegations to three great student

¡Baemblless IV CLAB (Congreso latinoamericano de Satudiantes), III CBUCA (COR

greso de Futudlantos Universitarios de Centro America, and I CIB (Conference

Intornacional De Estudiantes) A Dalegation nas also sent to travel through

several countrles of Africa (Senoçal, Chans, Honya, Beipto, Marruecos, Nigorla,

Argella, and Tunez) In order to establion contacts ulth the Student Unlons of

Africa in proparation for the CIs.

ar. IY Congreso Latinoamericano de Estudlantes (IY CLAE)

The DilE sent a Delegation to the IV CLAB -the most important LatirAmerican

Doleration Iron tho HEU of Cuba mas present at 1t also has been already pro

sented. But we will only list the folloring resolutions which were taken 1n

the assembly due to our bigorous action.

Condeun the axecutions of students in Cuba.

Demand froadon for Alberto luller and the other imprisoned students.

Proclala tho 27th. of November day of duel for Latin Anorican students, in

memory of the Cuban studento that have been executod.

Ask the Comision do Estudios a Informacion (RIC), organisa of the Inten

sational Student Conference, to perfor an investigation on the situation

of Cuban students.

a Congreso de Estudiantes Untversitarlos Do Contro Americs (III CBUCA)

Tho IRE sent a delejation to this assenbly, held in san Jose, Costa Rica,

lad by Ropollo Holu and composed by delegates af the IRE In Costa Rica, The

colagration of the III CEUCA did not finally take place because the Unlons

controllad by Communists asked that the Cuban Revolution be given a vote of

confidenco.

Mexico, costs fica, cutenala, and Honsuras, opposed this patition.

At this critical situation, the

denocratic delegation retired, finishing thus

the Assembly and laving the Commnists unable to reach their objectivo.

a Conferencis Internacional de Estudiantes (X CIE)

In tho X CIB fast hold at Quebec, Canada, Ethe DRs Delegation obtained the

greatest success aver in the assistanse to a student assenuly this delegation

was composed bys jose i. Rodriguez Lombillo, Rafael Irenols,

Joaquin Peres,

Lourdes Casala, Rogallo ialu, and Eduardo sunte.

Thatr assistance at the asset.

oly turned out to be a treat

success owing to the efforts al the Delegation.

The assembly condemned, with only one vote of opposition fron India,

the executions

and Imprisonments of Cuben students

and the suspension of the publication of

the newspapers of the University b y the Totalitarian Stata,

copies of this rascaution will be sent to all Student unlong of the world,

to the United Nations, and to the government of Fidel Castro. The report on

the X CIE 1i11 soon be delivered.

do The Delegatin sent by the DRE to Africa

On the last days of lay, 1962, the URE sent a delegation to Africa composed

by Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo, Raul Conzalez Simon, and Lourdos Casals.

They

traveled through these countriess Senegal, Nigeria, Kanya, Gbans, &gypt, Ma

rruacos, Tunes, and Argelia.. They established contacts mith tie leaders of

studert Unions and distrituted among then axtensiva informations

situation of Cuban Students, translatod to inglish and trench.

---

## Page 35

14-00001

•jose onionio echerorrlo con lus ideas on marcha

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

45A20024840320168246

25.190308

were grastly Inpressed by the panphlet "The Parversion of a University". Tho

positivo posults of thia trip to Airlon maro clearly disclosed at the X CIB,

whero the student indona Iron Chrina, Migalra and Lenya ardently defendod uso

1. Actually the DRE 19. plaming to send a Delegation to the Postival Mundia

de la Juventud whalh will be hold this joar at Helsinid, Finland

---

## Page 36

4-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARLO ESTUDIANTIL

082083010683862333553

52R582E021

230012044224040200008

joso antonio ectererria con tus ideas en marcho

DEFXICIENCIES AID DI FRICULITES

saring uro than one year of vigorous sorking, the Section of International ralA

¿ions has encountered countless deficiencies and diffrculties, mapy of which have

been already surpassed, though others still prevail. He will state bellot the

main difficulties which we are actually facing and uhich ta endeavor to surpass

as soon as possible.

1.- Personnel

The problem on lack of. personnel has been and is one of the main difficulties

which the Section has' encountered in Its labor. Countless are tbe notives for

this, among which we can Iist.

A.- Lagh of capablo personnol e Due to the importance of the labor developed in

Latin America, the personnel with capacity for the work is not very abundant.

Bo-'Personal problems of the aspirants to Dalogates & This 1s one of the most

conflictive motives me are ac-ually facing.

Lore than adle by the Cuban people, what 1s actually taking place 1s 8

massive exodus of our people.

Consequently, being in the need of working to

help their l'anilles, nany Balegates have had to give up their labors and coope-

ration with us. In many cases, aspirante to Delagates have been forced to abandon

the Plan remalning only a few days for their departsure.

Co- Problens on obtainine vigas: The difficulties in obtaining tha viras for sevoral

countries (like Colombis,

laxaico, El Salvador, Santo Domingo) has adso, on

many occasions, hindered the departure of the Dalegates for latin Amrica. There

1s a specific example in lexico,

for which 1t has bean absolutaly impossible

to obtain the visas; in spite of all the efforts sado.

lany delegatys in these

said conditions of anactivity bave consequently abandoned the plan.

Do Problems of Delegates in the resuective countries, The problens the Lolegatea

have had to face in the different countries have been so nany that it resulta

imposiole to outline them all.. He will try to point ouf those which me const-

dor aro the most importifts

8.- Econonic difficulties & Tho Dalegates lacked operational funds to levelop

their plans for approsinately one gear.

Their field of operation was

logically reduced to the loasto Actually the delegates do have thase funds,

though, endently, many of tise pians could not be carried through than.

b.- Problens with Anerican officials in the different countriess Though in the

masoilty of the countries our relations are the best, paverthaloss, ne hate

bad to face probleus in sase.

For example, in Honduras ta have had to

change the Delegate due to pressure ol Batista supporters.

In our Dalegation

at Sao Paolo, Brazil, our Dalagates have even bad to clean fields, just as

simple workers, ( they ware not sent to Latin Azerica for such purposes)

and further more they have even been prohibited to use the pase of the DRE.

---

## Page 37

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

loso antonlo acheverria cos pus idoos on marcha

C) Psychological pressures nich in fuence an the Helegates. Ono ought

to understand the situation vich a DRE Delegato bas to encounter in

latin "moriei, limorally, they are young boys and the lonesone atmospaare

in uhich they are, in:luences froatly upon thee. In repeated accasions

we have statod the neod of satir, frequent trips to the "elogations, but

up. to the present, no heed has been pald to our desando: lo consider tale

of vItal Importance and, once a,sin, no state our demand of travoling to

the Delegationa in ordor to mristan high the noral of the Dologates and

to avold a sooling of forlomioss and Isolation li thor..

le bave broofly axposed :one of the delicencias. and diffIculties which me are actually

facine.

They have b on written

In the boss goirft and not moved by any wront motive,

but for the only purpose of attaining a prait solution for our problema.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIS ESTUDIANTIL

lose ontosio echerertia po tus ideos on marcho

194i0.-

Drie ja the special situation of the 11:5 Pileration a: levico, it fundia

entaizy worked on the sellorini pointse

a) Inundation of the reseice

ot fussian troops sai mar ejuipient in

aidan soll. Fo encloso aiundan: saturial and tie =a te Delecasia-

¡are the press which siblished it throu, hout tie sa=lJ.

1) Amanstrating that missro has miniesses throug the saulling of

savana is seacaant.

c) Cobration of a lass on the sth e? Sentezber at it diredral of lexi-

co, reich resulted in a reat surress.

At ino sane tine a craii canario son a declaration si red by the liesciou.

peopia decline un the abancellors assembly, 1s beini cariad through.

No ercloso paper clipsiris, articles, cilos, etc.

att.on

ENEGA GI 40

19-:2r-26/3

у с.т.с2.

---

## Page 39

4-00000

SENGER WILL: "EM CLASSIFICATIC

: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

MEANINE ROUTING SLIP

NAMI AND ADDRESS

OP AND BOTTOM

SPINET

Emi

3130631

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

/ CONCURRENSE

Hemarkes

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

fILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

ALCOMMEMDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

activitin

File: AMDARB Tempo

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADONISS AND PHONE NO

109- на 237.

Use prescos editions

DATE

KE E22

LLAG

MEERAT

¡40)

4434? П9-48-88 090-Ç8 1221 0-209508

---

## Page 40

4-00000

* =1

DIRECTOGIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

NORE

jase antonlo acherarria con lux ideos on marcha Eszet?

The icle:ation at Fa: terforcco die dullonro seti:atlesa ja

i.- lo rave out merous press contrayses deneroin: tie presence of

jovict troous in Mibi.

Lo- Declarations airut ela attüct do tarana's senorast by readers si the

D:5 sere anue a: reat support nas obialred.

Co-s article appared in tie Mire" da asire of septestir?, 1962 vas.

trastied uni airited in tes: arainto i article micrated the present

and jast acti:as cl the Uirectorio devaluelinario ästuila:*1l

Silasin

Raord C212121-25/

та потор

1910/62-

19-124-26/3

---

## Page 41

Lima, Martes 38 de Aço ado 1962 LA CRONICA

Combardeo a Caba fue militarmente

premeditado - dicen jóveres cubanos

300 mil son los exilados que luchail por liberar a Cuba de rojos

katia.

desullacienar."

LA CHOTICA.

1.64119

leal.-el

qu

Interlorio

friclututi

m71r1isb718

de la bild'

Pro. no primera

Jefe

delerado

dul

in i

Ht i & 10: 1018

sierno

jerirnera.

Peris-sen que.

esos

urrpar-ento

denlo

momento

f'irte!

remeanto

ron

"De alll ad bowp.

1lij0.0n.

e fusior

entre illus erficion.

lus!

De,:

Los axilados

Et:E.

f..eu.

nurho

dil

y.4.011

hc6:10

que

Und,

':".

enriquee a

in"-frequal.

er: biesi ro.

In:: n0:20101,62.

participaton

que!

412

dirs

nt

maldo

i"!

si 10Kt:

M11a10l.

іл во да б

ohird.."

•"*.

7o 10 doe exilados un cri

eneu

cubanos

-actualmerie

Antando

Roberto

San

de

Br-gata

de

sel C-nario

Нр, тит

t0:0::8't

quito

091.8.8

do

dadera arluist,a

visriado l'a.

uniaran

san colms

Dolagado

Ha!

Oleral on el Perd

unitero

miembros

2503.

Elirimir ad a la liberaciso

3In) UN pailartas cubanos

más

Filo

1Uo

totortari-tes

de te a

-- Urel.eo

F.!!-&

morer

ante lig f'airido

Ц'1:

peadrian

DispinTa

que

C'uba

Pe:rlarno

que

ea la prision

de

FIHETITAD

Slanur!

f:tus.snir

Univeraidad

Las

lavala

Enciase l'epero.

ino

acluel

alindarro

de

FUel

DECLARA COMER

FERNANDE ROLANDO

en al ford del Difft:

Esturiantil

las 10

Frenändes.

Cuiz

decia-

actual politica do

Enadca

varcia

una alstia de con-

ranclusión)

expre-

cunsirierar

10s 8:15714°

GIODES

Departamento

Encarsado de

Estado del

pa:a

bon:bar.co

mar

cuntra

una

Habans.

y la ino

el gobierna estadouni.

as dos

embarcaciones

que

parte

en la cilada

acrtás

pregunto - dijo

cutiano

democracia, a

lucha

ranera el consumismo amenazante una

actiplanito

Citados

sto pregunto,, lam.

a deter dable

errer.

que

rarios

democracia

ing

cubanos

impidieno

demricratas

asumontar el

prestigio del

excidental

cristiano

dison..

148.

desear!a.

equita.

Cattie en 17

en de:arión de los pro-

pis los porteamericanos.

politica

Estimunisitie

son Cuba

BITERITATL BIEN

sch1

amunican

-en -A

alemente

11480%

del Presidünte

de que

Cu-

abandonada".

democrálico

de los

rubanus

¡erncis en Cuba ronira

discreo

actitud

con

por

suda

posi

ines bien.

•castruccion

y suse di

vue

---

## Page 42

rusos comenzaron

10B010L08H

ES ESTARIAN INSTALARCO CERCA DE GUANTANAMO. - CRECE LA PREOCUPACION EN LO

ino

ocido

ombre

IrOS

Cula pubitia comunicarias diarine en los nile

nostamuertarius de alular" terrriario culiono.

F.n

sugir: lus

acHinis acurtielaa alrridador

do. la base de

Guarfor.ar.a.,

de

palas

86114051168,

putlisarte. gerr.

user

4:e

mottramericano onlu pidro darias

punlucienes

Militzias durante

irin que duro 38 minutos de purs de la

n.4 1e

url Istiure.

t:

fuinunicirdo

no indico

de que manera purio

ser era

tablaritis

puris

de

orlaca

del

arron.

Sejin al romunicado, un aston binsulor volá el rirines cobre un tai:o

cubarre

rh

Cuba, al nurrsie.

de Marirl.

cuntenido

cuntinurriad de celis acusariones

miritio

Irn'urners que la radlo de

Prhis, en Cria

WASHINGTON:

Ariser o

relugiados

cubanos

ller an estulos

Corinist

firtados U'nidos.

Modiu

narrond.

Cube". La Dr

ДИГІРАВАТУСАТИТУ

de

"riolacrones" ferritorialen.

Ariantiee

anso ol

anaisero

do quo irruas y

porróticos

habian

dosombarcado on lo

Los

curnspirades

cubanos

freruentemente

acusarde.neg

Grunados, paleto aliqura mimados de la Intanteria de

Atarina norteames:e.

"pirra l'ulas" derie, la baie.

Sólo promesas convertidas en hambre e

El anuncio herlio

vierang uirimo.

el Gublerno norteamerica:

Arcada de céluer:un

eus-elimia a Cuba cuinridio

saiusto de sailados colanne de que tropas

Tusas y

ubrrig países e.

sp escuritran en aías número en la larana.

sin

ols-8an1r.

nertranericanos

récnicos milimeão y no a suidarlos.

hizo Fidel Castro al pueblo

de

Cuba

El anoniio lue herlos, arende

poras horus alter de que

cubarro: ra dus lanossis.

utilidinde lin caiun do

de estudiantes ex-larios th

Mlacio re atriburo la serg

Д!.A.011.

Acuaio

niio

cro purida horas después que

inversaaria el hecto para deleriolas

Culia.

promes"

Canciller Unda de Guatemala, dice:

les. de ritalidad de Falados Unister.

voz del depariaineas deju

hur que "le cue: tron

Titias

ceitilo.

vic

insirilos

lus principiale

aliesir.:

conienir.

Presencia de tropas rojas en Cuba

de Freel Caiero publica, el sábado una deriurrer n

Dijo que baleia cida

U1s

destacado en

Cir-

8:110

plinie.

reinion nicional

piodiccion

di

pondrá a prueba el Tratado de Rio

dinado o lus refugiatra cubanos anticomuniria!

ce-rilrüt

dicho prir.

cuariro de

GL'ATENALA

resenlano

f.i

d'aneiller

agosto,

rica

niesas

I'nd.i

armo

el diplonia-

hare centro

feDeral

especialmiento

Anidrica,

cariaiste: sula

huy nue

cutro

al punio

11128.

vuinerable

del Continente.

para harer

firnle al. alagie

nortrainericane.

17 Presidienio de Cuba.

Durtirus.

promiteis aver un

el rual, al lxual que carlio, alvelió a l00 preparaliros deir"

fue

siguirnia;

-En e!

Dietembro

estaria

Primento

de

dire

er

Fiem cai ate.

mununis-

1901.

19110708

stinas eis

•пр:

nat!e

de

militar anunciada

hart

Hahand.

primeba Inmediatamerir

los articules

117°

siripo.

que

persique

dis dir

рита

frutero

del

entraile

cruciel Tratado de Rio de Janci

runtinener

en

Jos

tracctuns

8:

11.0, 880

prains dos sieradog

narrana.

-presén el ciaso

jarielo aialiados en

esla surina a

:e9.

cupira el Contisenio

Unidos, que

constituren

-A.

Partir

prosturision

'so de

Finero

de

1950.

ai issadas

:**

mullitar

poderesa

viarias.

superaria las necrontados dei me:.

•Justificaría tamblén

una rinf..

164

enfrentarse

al

comucismo

cades.

пасIют.а!.

rencia.

EE.

intertiaia

de Sinistras de

do 1902.

la producción

RAL.

puro tomar

mindirias

"Falos

bochos

—la

Hexada

de

j.n10

pe:cado

salialaria la dernando del

Filestra propia

delonta.

on lo tire

tropas-

pueden

sirnificar

sua sua.

cunsum jo

estarian

de

8л?:

urimero.

q''e

Castro

peto

Encio

diro la

de

confianca

del propio que-

ci

racionamento que.

1843.

riurhas

Goblernos

americanis"

blo y

de

nulicias populare y

presas

rmei01es.

"La l'egada de

esas lr01zas a 1'1-

da obligado a ¿ecurrir

sin

einbatine,

diplomata-

Unda

Muril!

si?-

R3s merCeMarIas

COMUnISLAS

дата

60.

mejurla

primeli-

nillia prara

poligro para la liné-

sustenerao

de

poder.

la

acudirado. Hur

nos"

200

diarlos de

Cura" anunctaron

ajer que "curlarianos

DO

idratificadica que

siven en

Cuba enviaron

un cablécra..

sioenle Julin f.

Kennelr.

exigiendo que

férinino a e..

y selise trados lue ental, aciones cortearlericanas en la cosia i-

100

supue: l6.8

monteimericanos

tambila

exsiaron

can.

Serrelaria

General Interino

de las Nacionca

tinidas,

jhane

interiencion

de

orxanizacion iniernacional

"ante.

que cundurirán a una querra nuiloas y a la de tricción de la

sesiin la prenes castidala.

El Direciorio Revolucionario

Estudiantil.

intexrado por

manos que residen en

Miani, dijo qie la sucides

Ulahane Inclasi el cañona de un milro de la Haiana en e!

Tralia

uns reunius de

"Atenies" apresumbleniente del bia

desceriarin la presibilidad de que Fidel Castro nuble:e es

histurld.

pie

biu

suire

lus ridores e ineva

ernestes

de

en entre frase

de

гастопа.

Devie

me ses pode's

Mes retinion

-abrigo - la rsiajoz do

alinienias

Topai.

hairo

rias

anhiadora.

Las

lutures maures lienen que

lar.ias enlas.

de

relas

paridies

siquiera

puer!en

Ur.

Cuba cree

que EE.UU. invadira

CONSIDERAN QUE PRELUDIO ES GIRA DEL GENERAL TAYLOR Y MOVIMENTO AER:

1ia5.

fura paid compiarias fielies

que

retailo

cravidei.

En las tiorias de roje

inicrior

majer o ce reinbir, solo

due

pirzas

pr: vina.

Pas firr; lins die

para e-;

PARIS, ANOSTO di PAFle-"lus Faiartos linidos preparan uns sortia d!-

"natra C'ula".

iu opinon expresada

en'los circulus

ofistalos !

niar lanca.

el pi:ado viernes pur la fiuulie crica La

Havana por contrarrerolucion

Anuncian en México rebelión de mi

Ditar que lus escaparaies

sar "lue alimengo'd

ei la labans se ha unido

cord Sanad

Situa ias pooneses

Che Guevara voló a

Le 11ABAS1

Arnados lare aver se 11ª denuncia desples col 1ª de

son presentantos como

Ale".

Maris racionairo

su lailo, Leniberido Teloiaro.

diride en México el Partido

del jasado vierDes, y declaro

de

rolurorarias. Integradas.

t.4

uldicados ro c-ío

sura es el prencipal diriguilo

DU:: 1160

anbierno

cubann.

anunciado cos

Sorrin.

"Revolucion",

Museu

ardere la

Guerara

fulur?

101.6'42.

de

Lis

deil de

Levin,

DiTI

---

## Page 43

TA CRONICA

liro, iorsingo de do Ájo:to de lila

DIE fua responsabla dice Desertemento de Estad

En declaración oficial expresan que no pedían aprebar que se ulice tantario de E.U. como base de acción na

Kennedy examina

Tensión en Cuba

en Eta era

inspir.t't

40:20

MaLA

5:0r0 Me

+5l1

CONTRA EL TRESIGO

ROJO

tal

184411411

Desembarcos y alzamientos se anum..

INAR DEL RIO, ESCAMBRAY, SIERRA CRISTAL Y LOS ORGANOS FOCOS DE REBELION

hoy

ven

errorin

dra.

mientras

carrillent

Directorlo

Pir.ar

de

Habara

Tra

Carioerce

L01

no celerminada se ban

m:9016.8

mentales,

walde

rivallez e p-rifice que la habido yo

314211e

con

que

Mar

encuentros toa!

tajas puer

Aradlo que no

desembarcaron

al tiendo do uno

Informaciones

serio ++ 94854-88

Miutlerg

muero de eo selecciones

dela: '43.

flabana,

concretaras

operacien

que

la it he

cuba.ro

airTa

cubanor

subleve.

que

Cuta y

Vergue

para

Castro"

inxuto

de

precislonte

aciones

elatiuarin

partleron

bombardoro

em-

Tri casor

Hro

cranes que

bareng

que

realizao del operación

Delegado de los estudiantes anlicastristas

hace declaraciones sobre bombardeo a Cuba

EI

drira?

Directur.

No Obrial eo el Peru,

del

Estudiantil,

Moiando 31.

88.

deriato

wer

QUE

CONTESA

de s

Dimn urta

sitrarres de r

Linis, enlita el

alfilenio

pra de carera?.

que so

salitaura

de

erleürado

10

Traindo de

Es:ajos

Americanos

Conterente

primer lugar el propia

Gabterro

Im

teitariens

impunemen

del

Cari•

bs

replesur de artes y huma

biro permitadentos de lina polenels

Itrarontinen: al

En relación

con

declaracionas

heillas pur

110

Robert

tratht,

Pieros

Roiando

KHt:

Delejación del

+n

Peru

que

costa:

Fitauto

dia

cueria

Jo flamenin

siluurion

Prisiente ta

numero

Galer

senciin comunisia

en Cuba-

Harmy.

srinejanios dir'aracione

-afirir.s

ei

Drlezado del DRE

Literaesen de Cuta de

tennes que

la p,

y citara sienipre por facinia

quier

runsideracion

jarras

es: arminus dispuresos a cara? e:

Dellica

de ecnlaleaiid na lis rojus

Bader

nestramer:.

El DRE

La Ley

de arut alida.

8AT P0

Fa:a

suelo

de lus tE.

anuncio del Desartaiseria de F-tado dico

prticion

De fue creen aci Kit de une

ju pulirra

mentar ia aplicarion do

lo

pieris::

mohrg f.nriona.icg d

arrrr estudiantil

F.F.

Dryarlat.pr.ir

nardd tamr entr aue dos Fatades 'r

Temia a.glinla o 81181e14?

1 1.11

anullilais

Loe

Funcionaris aludidas

dijo

1r64l44-117

exacta

Gobierne

astrarrricaro no

en ningun Mie:nerlo ernesimienie

Dian

tin

fuen:e

nottranteticans

que los des enteraciones

insola,

"presim:birmente

Falan

ofuse de los tt

No de

pris

Prestan:e

funcionar.v

aiurtides

Insinu

que a

1414411

rirhirh.os

de la

¡mada d'ubana fueron responsables

AITERATON

grie unirlarita

1451 451441

¡calizando

Dintras recienteuralo? que en o

BU10 P) DRE

IN'T 8IT0S EN lES QUe DO SUSO DO

pacica

HASHINGTON.

agosto 79-

El Departamento de

Jilsticia an::

fala itirestigando para io

minar al

a ley de

: Estados

l'nides

Neutralidad de

Haliana

nutrido

aliühe, Quie

anunriada

Entretarta

tado

Deró cal: :óricasiente que

1ua01co

conocin

matades

tin'

Planter

dinisto cubare

litrida)

uttr.ados"

Hatand

fuego

de

cosas a edad obte.

Ahora ba do de vin tie

Estadia

l'nices

llevar

, esa pITEluta

+n Le

Hatara

La ley preid que semejantes o

Idictores

furdra

fer

OIgAr.:!1

! en

suelo de asia

('n

ArganIsmo

marión

reitoria

sarcastie

nere tentarie

Is:ud:

dente. lin perisin del DRE din

pecurtas

#:39569010588

lanare lermana ta 14.11

miento dip

partieron de las

embatesc:i

But an: 31

---

## Page 44

14-00000

1':"

il cataca colo en la colle, su couira eru el duro unico dindio que se

covii.

¡alimento it de un lado a otro, du si lo cuadro didã

itito:

"otiore dicto innios houiros citudos en

•micros cian lo alo

. ..

co ula, Isio arnas icro-

suricto de . 11:1

ito nuceso pereco de drá ajo ocurri ic tijo el rígiro co-

sty ois? Signel do au proce-ser, il

iet?-

a molid Gota Lucide go sourrió haco curi

tritó de :00....ra

1? 100 10.1 60d: duro mi in 1215 de las

nillic; tercia lo er, oliiiro

l crue dimities in la iberà cactricto, lico 15 2135,

fué cira de ma: noroe ecer cido de cutalanteo cia pos ue no ectá

de acuario con al jobierzi.....

"aton entaliantes son cir tiros do% viros

to:u

evolucioniris ratircii,-

=1 direcaurio se faraó daraaio los caugrientos dius de ircuito cor

triejo a derribor al decalio de 1933, assin no al infe le la is

licfr.cord.ajil irrilonte del

casio. Cuno de las aoese fraczo

sos, do conchilajó el intrsto is asosior el prario ire'alo, sorion-

do un turil si iba pur a la ca ciario, donde doe.lo procuraian

río un cincareo coocbrado lirrel rio titiin se 5.u10 :l exasar-

uirlo do derocto, ll: ala duró intonio cicverría, el Ciructorio

llevó 1 culo una serio da actos contra el dictalor batian, por tala

la isla, coocerurdo ironiero con unitro, furo rubicnicn o su inieran

u acción cie en ectocular turo lor en lo torie del 12 de .arzo do

1557, eu ca palacio de istiuta, en la abando in encabe ileó al Fa-

lucio jue el sumaca is ebuliantes, cit iros del dirictorio. in-

Lando prasidro de cuno j metria no, doron de serpero a la Guar-

dia del islaso, tiraro: abico las pertos, y llegaron inata el secun

do piso, sotos de cuo suriera si aliino de ellos. latistz, te bloro-

so j con pintola en anio, estela en el cercei pico.

1..

---

## Page 45

4-00000

..ooll

= 2

Carea do la Univornidra, chevorria tonó una erisera de radio pera

l-air a ¡feriliciónl, pero fió captaruco cor la polici"o y saricado

11: Do luci

6lo unue coando mue él latin ordo il dircebrio sa

lena: "Los crinales coinos no idee i dierte"o da ctra so'o,

•¡oroe del mir cuorio irrinico en ja coito contrarore in in da-

ti.;c.-

Desqués de la huida de inistr, de unta, eu la55, lus irie.oros del

Direciurio luvieron divergencias con instro. un el sos de febrero

de 1550, estudi nes del Directorin, ilevaron à erbo la princr cecos

tración contra vi rógimel conicista do casbro, un coila en in i:bana,

durante la coiccación de una corona al iri er Dipitado cviérico,

Pronier inaste: mikoyuhe unie el bonuceato a do. ó mirülo liriricos

por al estinte de cerrcho, alberto nulier, de 20 isong y ci de se

cioloçãa, duen manuel alvit, de 19aroo; in grugo de ‚óvence estu-

pintoo del directario, tommon las aras mico monte, cuario il riejo

conurista

citisino Carlus

saliel nourigie, voud un citrora vaiverci-

tori?.-

Ins overes volinon

plantas ceneraioras de electricideo (eu hertrien

ta feverita in constica una loro incutierta con chocolate, u era..

ficil de trauspertar co el balsallo,, toracer parto eo ai incedio

que destrujó lu cicals "'l neinto", en la labaras unron durato 3

mesos una estonien tranouisor, c. nestina, decde donde sullia al ci-

re en un prograna de 15 rimutos, tres veces for seisn:, ulili: no la

frecuencia de un cural de i.t. de la mbana, die se encontrina en des

130.

il Diretorio caturo taurién envueito en el han relcio. io

con la invaria de ahía in cocilio, pero sutrió concocurreana desag

orcaos: ulci, con priones de abria un fraute guerritiero co lorra

¿aestra, no vió nino de lus procticos sbastecinien on cic le ele

virían por pamicaidas; la cuco recitió la roticia de in invocar, por

io cur Él li so bejó de la viera paro evericaro due cuptari, y

actunauence ceta preso en la lula do ilo, condiredo e 20 scor da ori

sióno núr nsí tiene suerli, el Jirectorio dice que entre 170 y 220

de sus nientros bon sido fucilados luciando coatra vantro.-

• pesar de cur viciusr, il cirectorio es an: de les'ruens unjindes

of-cuivas, encre i: 30 Juáso de grigos anticastriatas sue trucian

dentro y fugge do cuba. il mos pasado, alvat y tres ric bros in del

virectorio, viron a cel insi pura hostier a la delegación castris-

ia que se enoaraba alli, puriicipando en al jestival curial de la

Juventud, sutrocinado por los rojos. salvat tué solveaco por i de sus

conpatriotas comunistas.-

11...

---

## Page 46

14-00000

.../ll

3 .

¡dee dos seusias, wilvat j 7 leores mis, colieron en un: lencia ve-

pratos por zonioierd, soure lie cutiort.on

Luigo iridro mio ua estaciabe de iugoniai, de 20 mioup ue cu-

alica el aonde, cuncó lo que tali ocurriùo:

n las à poio viens lis lucio da La libaia. Non dirigia: ii-

recto-onte al unjuilio col su so, y dinon vorita a la dorecia.

ion-

tábaris con ul lucio do que il raior cotuta más alto que nuestra lon

cino jor lo de pariumos sauor por debajo. Llezauos a 250 yardas de

Is costa, frento :1 co'el coita de tomalo (donde so alojaken técai

a debado.

cus dal Alorar com ist:) Meinos fuco durando 7 alan 380 -fretia

sua diledalor do 24 dese irgcioucobros cogretiles atravocaros lag

Crando concaeros a escapal, tuf-

nos de veriado maios los sotores e toda velocidade durante más

tioupo del que se dcia, lite vicicume

ce beorics unes

051so

Tudos llorébara como nicos. ietanos centinlenco en el piro du la

lancha, y llorros".-

---

## Page 47

jose antanio ect

H.

DIRECTRE FOLUCION SIO ESTUOSANTIL

ra con tus ideas on mancho

6z

2109E0

The nain carjulin carried trou l by the icle sara dis to more, ubile ojinion

a,ainst the builduy df Missiai trogis In. Gain

A trip mas mado to l'inas de dirile

acceptini tie incitatiin of tie moshers of

tho Univorsity Faculty.

Also a neutin! ms hois sai chidilerit relations dith

tho Urcarizacion de Centros Culturiles mere comtiisiel.

This irony has 1ta

braches throngout ürashl.

Anettor trip ms rado to the State or Santa cruminso

Six conferences wore

riven thoro and condernatiins to tir Cuban case mi bridcasted through the

ract o.

Mirine the trip no obtained the suport of tie irin dariaranolitara as second-

ary Students und of the Secontary and University Sirie laions. We onclose paper

el1ppin:3.

Other activitios carried thron; à by the Dolejaii.- reas

a) A l'ass at the Cithedral ol Rio de Janciro to commirate tho 8th of Sertembor

Publication ofs,

b) Tho pamphlct "tuba Socialista" (in enclose me des)

c) A carpalin in

favor al the Cubens under paliiissi asylun at the Sraxilian

Embassy in lavana.

d) A strong campaiin in protust for the executie. si laruel Quillot by tha

Castio ro,due.

Liest.

tis

19-124-366

---

## Page 48

Pundadne

SATRO CALLAINI

19004 (e150e".

MANIA INA VAY,

A GAZETA

Número avulso

CrS 10,00

Jornal sem quaisquer ligacões partidárias

ANO XXIX

Florianopolis Umingo, 20 de Agúsio de 1962

NUMERO 7.179

"Fidel Castro traiciono la revoucion!"

Convidado pula direção da Enião Direilo na Pontiticia Universidade

Calatirn.o

Calólica da Quanabara, Luluu alt

milita-se rm nossa Capiial, o estu.

vamente contra o regime de Fal.

didie cubano Brinto Dius..

célicio Batista.

participando

da

declara o estudante cubano Benito Diaz

população.

Aposar da bem arma / Cuba: com a finalidade de gara.-

1 aradimirei Rogeto Duärte de

Fronto Estudantil Nacional, que

ta que dui condenado a 30 anos dia le fazeni-se coletas

voluntári:

pria. secção

agrupara lanto éstudantes serun-

da e terrivel milicia, a luta conira

dir o regini. castroomunista, mas.

prisão:

para todos os fini chegandose e

Fidel continua progredindo, Co

rotulailos rodos eies di

lécnicos

"lem diso a clasar oporária cubi-aião a um desconto aproximado.

dátics

como universilários. Após

mários organizados cuntra o reel.

os quais vivem

ortortávelmente na se vlù privada dn: dirrita de 25" as ms

patino perrarry rusido a sesperto

da Priningari Cubana, bom como

a mimiraiel vitoria sobre Batista

me são sempre dissolvidos pelas ar.

Istaladas nas antigas mansir's dos

reve, direvo de enfermagem pore

Conio são realizados os

restinuou apoiando a Revolução

mas seiido présus seus manifestan

latifundiários inclusive, com cartos

nove dias, e 13.0 salário que vinha.

"enmiclos

durante dois anos

quando com

Iles Contudo, E oportuno que

3e

de iuxo à disposição numa arconta

percebendo ha cinco anos. O regi

Os iamoecs comicios

•96e 8018 Fidol Curiso, pesuitando n0

priendeu que E menma tinha sido

Irasda em seus

destaque - prosseque - que essas

s0 bom povo de seu pais.

me catita da sua um des Castro, sho de time cont

principios.

Dal:

mesmas milícias viram-se contra

• operário cubano

conto mensal obrigatorin de 18..,

ridos.nois.para tanto são const

om diante pacsou a lutar. contra

quem é fanito Dias

Fidel Casito principal traidos.

Castro quando tem opurtunidade

E lastimável as éor.diçúes do ope.

des salártos e que le que diariamen y (Continua na 3.a paz.)

de 1azê-10 com êxito.

tário cubano - declarou nesso en.

landes as Direllerio Revolucio

880-908901 Disa7 desane anteristiadre,

Quanto da chegada. à Cuba de

trevistadn. Não Dossiem

A mitir

Mano faturantil DR% -, Uxarr,

contingentes do exercito russo els

ma liberdade sindiral sendo Mitil?

de telos os medus

necessários co

se que nada

•podia

acrescentas

mi querrilhus, sabulagens conslar.

em e ele Havana qualido e siu 108.

carlo pr-les il unitanimentes a pedir

e 0bi:8 As:i lia cinbaixada bras).

inTa em Miliana, lá permatoren-

les e alertados pessoris.

Cuba: Situação atual

Respondendo

primeiramente,

qua! a situação atual de Cuba, de

ciarou-nos Boruto Diaz, que o racio

véi de jornals.

Frisou, porém, que quando de

sua vinda so Brasi!, grande era o

número de russos, ichecos e chine-

ses que entravam diariamente em

ses.

como acontecel

federação dos Trabalhudores

de

Cuba e dirigente máximo da clan.

de raue veja piara tiesso pals no dia

29, 124: Midergre Alaste 20111

namento de vivereste géneros

primira necrissidade é constante.

provocando com Lssi, muitas

de

riria in da:te site seus extudus

de l surdetes

descontentamento

r.a

---

## Page 49

14-00000

«Fidei Casiro...

¡ (continuaço da la pigina)

dna ludhs is optianis liute qua

nãn acella lai convite e tido coroa

runequênas de sou ala E claro

que o grande maioria preferé ou

vir us demagogias de seu falso le

der a ler que enfrentar del para

dessit

Resultados positiros de

Resolução

Indagado dos resuitados prettt

vos da Revolução Cubara respor

deu que : mesma conseguiu des

portar o povo latino americano pa

ra srus problemas

Diane que as desaproptiantes e

nacionalizações das emprecas

compunhlas americanas de nada

resolveram, pois apenas irraram

de patrão, passando para os rus

боз.

"ahse o alaque de

Plaga Girón

"Orandr erro que não ferta ler

sido cometido, pais destruiu com

pletainente

a clandestinagem

mesmo porque, não era o rasmento

propiclo.

Mal preparadas

nutitar

mente, não consideraram as tropas

de Fidel. O próprio poro cubaro

lol colhido de surpresa pela iriva

são, puls nião esperara".

Afirmou Beulto, que não se prect

sara de nova insasão, pais

Fidel

Castro não permaneietà por muito

tempo no poder.

Diretório Revolucionario

Estudantu

palucionaro Estudantil

-DRE

-. é o representante de

opinido

e do sentimento

das estudantes

cudanos e por esta causa fre ques

esto de levar ao conhecimento

todos os estudantes e poros

em São Paulo".

mas sim revolucionário contra a

traição comunistal

Terminando

suas declaraçãos

ans estudantes e poro catarinea

ses o seu abraço cordial, e a roo

fienga de melhores

Cuba!

dias

para

---

## Page 50

D DRE de Cuba e o desembarque de tropas

comunistas em Havana

Também em Matanzas ocorreu tônio de Los Banos em Havana,, Cuba por soldados comunistas. O

um desembarque sobre o qual não

Com todos estes desembarques de O D.R.E. de Cuba Paz-um apêl:

ha ouiras detalhes. As informações

soldados estrangeiros a serviço do ao povo de Santa Catarina, pari

morbidas indicam

que

as tropas

imperialismo sonético,

que

dirão que expresse ao conselho

de

invasoras esião lorpiizadas

em

os defensores da "auto determina gurança da DEA sua condenagar.

Gusiana, antigo campo de tiro en

ção de Cuba"? Possivelmente cala

O D.R.E, fas um aptio a juver.

tre os quilômetros ? e 8 da estra

rão e não reconhecerão que nesta tude catarinense, a todo o povo di

-O: Diretono

Resolucionário Es momento que os operários, os cam| porto de Mariel, na casta norte de

da

que vai

de

Pinar del Rio

momento a verdadeira auto deren; Santa Cararina para que não por

Car: 12!

de Cuba denuncia perar

poneses, e 09 estudantes estão lu

Pinar del Rio, de 2.500 a 3.000 "léx.

"¡nilo de Santa Catarina o de ilando e pondo em perigo a contt

porto de la Colonia. Em San Ju

minação do puro die Cuba pold ein

mita que Cubn, seja uma nova Hun.

nina com uniforme verdescuro.

Ilan, onde nem a entrada-de Der

piñica. Não recontecerão que

o era, para não permitir que sejari

esbarque de serra de 80 mil pro-|nuidade do regime numundia

do!

casquete

branco, mwhilas,

fual

midio Escalona, chefe militar

de

posso cubano continua lutando pe. aingados esses gritas de revolta di

us do bloco comunisia prarua jerustor Castro, Enem 09 dias

36| neiralhadora: 2 mil

de asgario?

Pinar del Rio é permitila; na Cor.

sua liberdade. Continua lutar povo cubaro pela sua auto delas

'hamar pur Fidel Cres! n Mesin

rIl de julio desembarcaran

asiátio ou cercano enire d e 8 de

dilheira dos Orgãos, perlo de Ca

do contra shomem que tralu a se

minação.

agosto no porto de Castida, na cos

bana; na Costa norte de Pinar del

volução cubana, a verdadelra Re

De voces depende neste momerri

la sul de Las Villas, Chegaram em

A GAZETA

lentegrolis, Quinta Feira, 30 de derbiro de 19902

Rin, entre os portos de Banta Lú

volução Cubana. E neste momento to que Cuba seja Llvre 1

jipes e caminhões, trazendo .

ca

cla e Esperanza e entre o de Santa

América Latina não pode por.

nhóes e ambulanciashospitais: en

Lúcia e Dimas, em Torrens e Li

manecer calada ante a invasão de

Benita Díaz, Delegado".

tre 2i e 31 de julho aportaram em

monar.

nas províncias de Harana

Danos na rasta norte de Orieitr.

• Matancas: em La Carura.

110

sã0 homonia, a à de aidito 1o porto

arrigurin siteeradires de San Alt

do Marana 20000 M15418

---

## Page 51

Página 6

Os Estudantes Cubanos

Morrem no Século XX

Pela Liberdade

J..0.

Brawit =

CONCHA ACÚSTICA NA PUC

9.9-1962

1.?.a1..0.

•Date 41

lepw..loolies..u

1as,

P1т.1n

pirated file

602011

roen

•'se

inde

Ilums fili's:

lirios

meses sebrieles.

pr/eif.pr-

con coll priese mi genesiel es prealro

pmabingeelgse.00110ppi0.d.ed

as ari.

sinfenics

pure portil dores dos dineroppo de l'aidairos c

---

## Page 52

14-00000

209119.

10

1403 1910

C::1.41:

1st.

T=90

1r239:

d...

18:*

?,

a11r.

es, att boje

MAr & VOntACT

para

• trio calicar

ral

1TeT04

UTr:"'

1a:

K14ta

$0V17:

DE

1091 .

1103

Unian

• Me

Estudari®.

M:1:7768

118:05 ГГ.":

d:-etr.learq:e

Ciba.

ice.

prüir

€.0 9.170=

‹2:.

aP:1s

5j'1n, 0.919.0

3986:8

fienie, ermo den lusa desla r..

contra inlaipus mais periguns.

fae rom

alie scliale.nos itiro.

Miadas e pipal: as incrirdas

POTT

parte de Cricon de 83130

NOSSA B80:0:78

i.rd.o 18009.8.

110:.44p

elas.

p. dietec.irs

SAINDON

fr.:

17028

101"1:: 14

cabo viro

To-porsid

irmáns curinse

g1l0 Juram 1u1-

iu-liga

nali7.l.

10.°u

dandos.

41010,0.i01, 1e

OUTRO PROTESTO

As in rit.

recrhete.rn

wittit's

contin ne!

cin

ні зина

ru-ori

Organi

«1t20

delegado do Mio de foriires, em arretaraci de Ciuleno

Entrevista Exclusiva

Com Eduardo Muniz

- Qual ao maisio de ae via.

peixes ila

qui de dia ii da irgínola do laio

•América latinia"

Continer to mitid "

iradaino que sim realizando in

illegade

do Diretório Resi.

cinnário Fordintil, no liado do

elidantes

nesta cinga ilicisiia

Midiabario dos

Diciario

solucionário

t'adlanti!"

P.p.-

8.7.7

juvens que comhiterim. a Tira.

nin Mitiriana, riguindo no iseis

digiéle que foi enilos e lidir

Dirclorin

Ririorsionaris,

Minir d'niserário soré Anti.

= Diais airo in piara inseis.

i liseia, e u: impoitinia le.

divilinner

seis campos di

viral importißila.

denito

de

Curta e no etirangciro: enyuan.

to, nes interis;

p.eis, prep.1.

as circun-lancing

profe

levisie dies mando.

drticuldido.. "

risorguinento

nuses resistindie noe Serra de Fa.

cambrity. de

hirrer de d'asio como do 9110ua

martimo:

serais pura lade: lembier no ii.

courtatior do Cuti

rai e contoimário alienre

d.r

Consinta

ansiérica

die pensa liba. e.

a bem que a

limalizaçãos de

Brigiulas Inte?

nocionais em

Cos colidia a t.

hariação

CTT

тт.

internacirias.

orear.id.

será

por inos que cruparemos os bra

ivo, costarre

ühe

os coperetton aul

пота

iosa é osm

eutled, e nela. deixaremos

1 lillimas gerado ch senta erio

emil

mente revelacionárina quanto d

ад.118.

11109

41935110

э-іo.

camhim

q.1!0

¡dendraia. Quando disamue era.

era Rolin, rin'ansin ideais him

dofinilos.

claramente

aue era necessária isma mirlin

sa ralice!

0:36 4189080598 8819

Dianiscin

11m2

Keforma

propoicionares

13000 diaribuicão maio jroslia das

serra?.

presteveráo o Salifin.

dia.

seinificante

prodiic.io

mariinia e

restiris ert

incrimonia dias

montanhos.

8:168.

то estan

Cuba?

Sinceramente. desd diie:

chi

ediurtornonin.

contritmi

cata

quie

sanhorna

inepion.

41€

il viliera

т.s.

al e minorisininto.

da no ciónio de luta só di pr.

Marina quando lenb.rlos as den.

anito

¡agracina.

1o triunto coin é decensbarais

це'с

do atriciêncio position por dia.

1.09 m1d 57.8

posse da Arsérica larir.r:

o errari inricano

em gil:

modifionam ens pariais.

Dente desde dl6 0utei9 por.

mesina

e.:

uire o estica io pegpre de Carrio.

¿ne decimbirque eirá eletuado

em introlinado como os ciónior.

ine die clandérr nidade.

duzirão o paro: ao linças 6ao.

trister do enioniraijo chire doio

lugno e dra peri do intrices do

-Q0.110 08 18-0891. l07 IU MIA.

"= rimo i que vais ao in.

Resciusionários? U

I'8' niet um Rivn'ucionário?

— Fole perturais, coomponirai..

rio. É giere arme insinuaçio de

que somos Contra serolniani.

ino: rale mere fairo, ji que

is criaçin de son

evitar

44= 3e

mini

fúndios

per meio de tima esla.

raçio. pem cricriado e intensi.

da, para que de dias cooperari.

vas jeiam inica e crclusicamen

dirigi.t.ee

comparent

que a fornecen, som interiençãoo

cortal, a não

de: 411112 10018071

Mixinterenardo de lipo cronini.

in e réunion. Boin assin as de-

maia relomas: cilitanional, 1o.

bina, risais, rebormos de fimpec.

a, a interagin de um So'i

in 5 ciel de

Rondimonto."

quanio a pritico

exterior.

uma de 1odol indiixndinia con

dicinéres.

norre roberanis e repsaliaso.s io.

lise.

noviético alé ni

servassier, Salutar e Frario.

---

## Page 53

Página 3 '

ACABAR COM A UNE, CONQUISTA-LA

OU CRIAR OUTRA ENTIDADE ?

у пілв

maniti univer lins

in bradein

dies cortetiles:

lettere:.

94w44. 1111644

proces.0.

que mitilion

ativiom рубі віт-

Dei ceNTi a UNE cersa o cleoliaraento en arusio

cles dirmiario,

Birigino.

sler;

vello dinveralfesa. do luogo.

14.

ufa)

riefacis

tra man

10AL1

derotein cla spiraiio

e.:trestietotat; eli agariio

11/квід.

4191-

des a necaniono

liardios

liscional dei

Essudaries Late

corran e flittouis: rigante

1071:1

car.i

mlrt.prvntvirantr

imi arritaça citolainculo

stre

17186:12, 1 .

dio;

spose sollialiere no'no

uNy,

Cometa r

Dra l'iu.

80? 40.88

Maries jo

q.1e

piIru

deriser dire saloneinst

/VP.

laller

11msil e i

drissino ile

l'eterillare l'ors.

Minifesto da Aliança Democrática

Uriversitário Pos Coleaus da PUC RJ

«inz

" tip;

i Aberlidine pira

tirste. in

". fiat.

4.200e1n) 0

stie,

1r:.191:n

:::0.101e9e.

•; • D10'fs

:ile, dai

viro

marejilis.

represso Tiara

86i10 ra

Preessed ind

11-988

18:18:

8110/1811.18200

•priminia

Se Io ils 1107.6115.

d'iras.n

Ituro

Vall

Cristias

Evellllin

сол.:a

N.1.

1ніM4

"*:1.91.

dil goallani

1dia

pata

---

## Page 54

14-00001

229a

28007031

d'in.

segir,i.e

d.-

die eh."

mit

VERSI ARIA. BUC

deldis..

121579

imirad

«te ein

shis.

PL 15.0:80

Nenes Ha.

pila

le de pales: 890g. e810: de. 29 29.

drilliais

c111-Costs,

Trideo Blungeilo, Mitsines an mar. eindi de (nuntrasam es

ropas tidelini.

•Umrou sambim un lis ento ces Coinins de Rosistanio

aus dillis de Lécambias.

l'oi distribudo clandestinamente um nunifisio culdires

ce u paro à recolaçãn.

SON

81818.98

calen

la:ui seridein:003 ?.

• que

1; landainchte'.

UNT.

cal

di

порісс" da: &r

E::a

im portestamenie can

raino:.

finaled:

pare: fabricor

coolse.

os apeliecios locritcameatr.

multu mali .rducar..

inn

is'imurio

sirio de crir britis entidade e. ento a prinien::

inúit! e sem sentião para o morterilo U91..

di. Trs."n

di:::e. n.i

direrta

titilyo

D+?-

acer conni. di:

Dio: 119: 8

11.0 e5lp81:i0 se.

Pert

luar, por

retirade ino inira punesm: nie caire zu teus pro-

Pallo canado: Co: min os, dos dema-

sono; dor duo cas queeerr pooli pira afirmar a

pir onidadi,

p'el"a no. proprio

trabillio pria Irialte: derte du pile. dr

. UT

nuranteça

ота.

pazi 19910

10003

---

## Page 55

D.

R

AN'

E.

CUBA

130.00

Cuba Socialista

---

## Page 56

4-0000

CUBA SOCIALISTA

is nadave a para lere a ventado, rido para meteriale "

JOSE MIAT!

INDICE

Palavras Iniciais

O primeiro Encontro Nacional de Produção

Mos o que sucedeu com os promessos?

Pior que os escravos da Colónia

Uma sentenço "Econômico'

Tudo isso, Por Que?

A Economia, Talvez, mas a Liberdado, Não

O Profissional não lem Liberdado

• Estudanto não tem Liberdado

O Componós não tem Liberdado

O Operario não lam Liberdado

Em Cuba ninguém tem Liberdado

Conclusãos Finais

Epilogo

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDANTII DE CUBA

Rio do Janeiro, G. B.

Caira Portal 3986

---

## Page 57

14-00000

PALAVRAS INICIAIS

illegare dis "Dirotorio

terrarcare Inclai de Cula".

13:

MARN CENA GENEENO LATINIONE MICA.

Ti, stenne m a critenn is

nelsas juan la senolo combucio meso jaranale il esse resperito porto

e1191a187940 gende brandello aguta non prigalle a lite traret in-

tomarinakretacile.co gue la tor protesserende 811 11087 pittia.

feri asplantadio era Cular um1 pogiute nearsistia-leninista, conna.

Sür list mirino sore que montir musio die chegir i lil punto: sore

11ue stait e suale un juanto

.c.

lão riso aqui analisar a coprivie de traido de que fonomi viti.

erar que a ergine marsiva leminista introshacido ens Cale no coura-.

quini reatica: a pringaridade e sen leiar à aloroladle, nas sin à miviria

l'anno vicar: palareas dos airigenera erminani da colanos e 2120

pregoriao ina lavari e leis escas que eralarer comunista 8em...

11I.

1r 190 4789 dayudgar collee delaxers apansgar 096 898-08001188919090

lo Mars o lurino: Tão derrivel d pirande e ammaiono que 10181 di

sas princes dourime e realizacio paule miciar.

l'ams repurnetizar aperas tolo a gar e jase im Cula, aprr-

lane, maremente a legiolaçin repoltoria e un divers de Filoi

(a-100, ste lotratis, e rnitrus.

MAIE MOSTRANO QUE REALMENTE SE PASSA N

"CUBA ANIMISTA":

---

## Page 58

4-00000

O Primeiro encontro Nacional de Produção

dia sissente commista implantade em Cula pur Fale Caute s

seres cantararlas, venen-se al pé cla lotria as práticas dos puertados ervira-

nissas de lento o snsado. L'ma delas musiste nas trunir de ans aticina

enere procles ros mendiros purticipandos de uma ilernishia atirabaile

da tirarto comunista

A baixa de nivel da preelação, do aumento dos porto a anabánte

inferior dos premiutos, o aumento carbitante dos cl rt ela peranaris:

o lotanento de indústrias e us ilricies enormes das chanca talus.

erias Comulieladas e sudo isso, prontade do planos de indiraiação.

do alinistério de Inclúserias, controlado puer linealo lincrata -- 1d25i-

quis o risado maior commista criano a coreias uma reana de satos

os clementos que interrém ne provenie de prenligão.

Fontre os dias 260 e 27 de agusto de 11411, cons cedo arte o tanT

mero de governo resoliscionário, no Teatro Alampuita de Matase lur

calisatio em Miramar, es "lideres dia

indústria

crihane serrami

reunidas analisando os fracasse de sao plinos e o éxico nezingazido 11a

destrangão das principais fontes de riqueria de Cola.

(lo jornais, constrolados pela regime, repriluriana esperto de

tais ronnies, trisnsmitidas polo rielive pela televisio, mas às quais ruas:

mingria pirestaria atenção, puer ja estar acrostumero demais a tale

"lusos".

• do ser pastolicado a matéria relativa a esses cretartar cortou.

so noarisa a drelos es insultos e rexriminagies que ni "camaraiti" e

fizerams an tentar carla 0m8 sair mais

""lingus".

• 147o furai turro os

mister que a censura não pule policiar a solos.

di espireinies de fidel Carro e de "cho" Cinerara açço vão

citadas ele e celas se reeluzem inuito lem as "arandes

lizarlas mo proce-me da industrialização le mesmo pais, e que se con votarau

nuns elas lazipo da pregaganda lo regine para ia América Latina di

ill Durio 'Revolución" 28

20 de Agosto 1981

EIS AS ENRENNES PROFESUAS POR ERNESTO

GEVARA UNITRO DAS INDETRLIS:

•i Não se prat-a malma das neta annaladlas para a porenluçãa

•Na Emperia Ciruditala de Foriee, énx premias é unia das

naires iemprestas que imenso a regiurar no Slinistério das Indústrias".

"A sonoado é yer no trirevios seim un rebar de algre que não se

"Tudos riterasi emirentarulo a fala de garrafas lila se fiz sentir

tanto para co remira e mno para no vidros arilizarlos nos laixoratórios

melieres e apmar-or tamann para o laté con algins momentos"

"Isso quer cêse que havia uma serie de indusrias que estavam se

resentinelo de fata de racilhames adegund e flricas de vidro

princeram paradas muito provavelmes pur falia de capacidade"

"Não é rede inri, por esesuplo haviabão eni Havana e não

lurer no canopa cereado ser o produto dne bunlo de sal forma que

não haja falta to muro ajuna

"No cain dia destrita, loure insuiciasia nus comiços de ano.

Houve ausência de jajrlão e de saços de rapel, em momento dessrmi-

nado. Tlà aruatacio radive de pasta juca dentes. E necessário ser

puniualizada a rero Ha jeatro meses quis se vens verificando parali-

zação do abrinar raio e eunu ainda promitencia urgênte, como seria

de riesejar".

rito ela proutra ris sido mais lento do que era previsto

•Se bem pae cão restam sielo maitas as indústrias paralisalas, o

"A rico de cario encentrados ida uma falta de previsão dos

ensinheiros de (NKA na planificação de a produçãs dus slichs

ele luranja".

"E verdade de e Ministério do Cirmesso Esterior concieu érros

o que alguns dir sis cstarim pieralizado vais nan é menus ver-

aLale que honr oa privaria total de jornao por perse da maioria

ries diretores de reprises".

---

## Page 59

hol natição mais rficiante, de eo bensesarm superando ao lollas de orga-

nização fundas mu desligue sue curus das reginsigiro e diocunnici

SES O AUMENTO DO CONSENO EM "TOTI" GO, E PRE-

TENUEH L'E TLIN SEJA INCHIVINALO PELOS ANES:

TO INI CONSUMO, POKOLE SÃO & ESATO.

FAKESOES DE FIDEL CASTRO NO PRIKO 1S-

CONTRO MACHAN DE SKONÇAO.

pure jamaio tinha feito antro, e dai tiela a alual situação du peais, e

1ue tis, tinham esperiência de tais trabalhos".

"Si, primeiro inversário da Resolução havia abundancia de relo,

nado falava e os irmacino anclaram abarritarlos".

"Já existem muitas obras projetadis e falta cinento, ialtan vergia-

Ibio de ferro e não li o material verrosário para countgi-lao".

"AJém de tudo, enve primciro enertro está cheio de deficiências

de organização".

Ser nais claro não é prosirel. Ai está a clesastre la lixia dos pró.

pries lideres Bem. cuuu a neresinlise regrasertar um junstas as cui-

Mas, cran umas sanas promesso. lur isse Casiro prominios que dina

dezembra ele lotil esparia solucionado o problema do ita cimento de

arri em llasana: à partir de janeiro de 1'112, a proalugia de corrais

superaria tíxlas as norrisilades de mercado nacional: em junho de 1'152,

a produrãn do perialo atingiria as necessidades do consunn: a 1.° de

forerriro de 194,2, estaria almilido o racionamento de lanha de porco.

rec.. erc.

Mais unia vez ficaria comprovalo que o Socialismo fronianion é

euti "inema de futuro"

1º1 Tone, abosoro troparói eubono.

•A cuso e do 10lí, trose pavular cubono, urado para ancorror os descunsto

Mas o que sucedeu com as promessos?

i1.12 se murio de 1'7,2 foi provareçala a Ii n" 1015, (2i que diz

r. aguia:

"ste jai sábre a meltais diveribuito do alastecimento". "'

dn. ¿'e a Com o eljerisa de neaguir mellair dirrilasição no

alarianni di cuisumo correnie, cria se uma fita l'acional para

a protestarão, dos Génerra.

.Ir. 2"--.81un82.Jarsmalpara @listrilmicaoderlitnrano.sori

inteiraria le um representante do lusitao Vacional da Kelensna grá.

ria, 111 segoartitante de Mingorerio dis Inlústrias, um repersentante

do Miniciar, de Comércio lixerrior, uns reprisentante da Sinistério

do Tralis,, eu representano do Ciriè Ferratisa da C'entral dos

Tralialhos pre de Culia, um represtarie dis Comitér de Itiesa da

Kevrolisia, e sns ropreventante da frlerario das Mulheres Cirlanas.

1ns. 2° -- Não atribuiçico da Junta Vacioal para a Moeribuiça:,

dos. liéneren: i, organizar, com présia mesulta au Cruscitiro de Mi-

nisiras, à livia de artigos de consunto que, puer motivos justilieseless, vie-

vem ser adirieichrs a um racionisiento doal in nacional: b) dreenni-.

nar, com estimaria prévia de Conselho it Ministros o reginne de ma-

sionament, er de deve adular com relação a cala artigo, assim contu

as quantalia des micons que deiam ser distribuidas entre a papu-

lacro se deruinar, ron prévia crisala do Consellus de Alinieros,

as retificarios seiativas que desam sir irisas no que diz respeito ao

almercinuare, is isulúria privada lè, e miatal e du comércio de gé.

nems ele formara recessidade, privardo e mistal. dos prculuts selmeli-

dos an rachesarmir; il) organizar, com privie audictiçia do Conselho le

Ministria, e época de racininmin e apalização de sia execução.

assun como irarminar os organismos estiaiso populares (3) que

desam parages da execuçãn e fiscalização desse regime de raciona-

monia; el 88'9,is sis Conselhr, de Minisonos quantas meridlas acte

oportuna para a relhor erecução ilo raciocuniento.

Ari. d'-- jeregam-se as dispunicíni incais e regulamentares.com

contrário cras à esente lei, à qual conteriara a segurar a partir de se

publicação sa "'serta Oficial" da Kenubira

"Di COrrO'El MARE 18 CA. MOrTO 1988

---

## Page 60

14-00000

Nando que a sumpra e carrante a prelle ies

P'alácio ola l'residernia, ena Marania il 12 de Mitor dl. 1r:2

Iraido Policis

I'railerir

Pitei lisiro K'us

P'rinciro Mini-ros

Marino Firman Börsos

Miniano de Comércio Interior

dessa mesma nuite. Fidel labui com amargura e ancios o poi

diari racionamento, Disse que "a situacio puir à pirara a cagainlan

ela tesolução e dos revolucionirios. ton lido sin puras. Mi tailria:

Enquanto a "Nora Closso" como o tobo

•le-re'a:..

: 17o "il granale tareia proclucionira é con..

truir pura e inturn...

Toadia sunto, curava em vigor a primira Krashugin da Junes

Nircional pura Ibirlango dos riêneros, que é a rajunse:

de 12 de numardo lind, à lei n" 1015, eriando à lusta Vacional para

a Diriluise dos fiéneros, recarregando-a de paquir au meno ('on-

vlho de Miniros conlas as molicias cruslierntes à inolhar distriluição

ele alarido eles artigens de comonar mitrrele;

VINIATEHIG DE

LIBRETA DE CONTROL

DE ABASTECIMIENTOS

VENCEI

COM LA GUARDIA

•EAR ALTO

• @ poro passa lomo

=9

---

## Page 61

14-00000

1OK CANTO - Conn a data de 18 de Março de Bulie, Dierna de-

vidamente erotinala à Junta Nacional pura a Distritorigin des tié-

POK M:ANTO - Cumpre pair corenção a lei 1." 1015, nue que

diz respeito à nelhor di irilnição de ala rtimento.

POR TANTO - So une das iriligies que lo rio cnnferidas.

pela lei n.° 1015, esla Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Generos,

con prévia auliência ar Conselho de Ministrus,

KESOINE

PRIMFIRO: - Declarar as aquintes artigris de sinisman, su.

jeitos su racionamento em torto o serritirio nacional: as lanie de prere's;

b) azeite rogetal: c) arroz; d) feijero de inas os tijuos.

ao racionamento no territúrio da Cirande Havana, que compretade

municipios de Alavana, Guanalacra, Relo, Mariano, Santiago de las

l'ogas e Santa Maria del Kresirin e as ciladles de l'inar del Kio, Ar-

temisa, San António de los Baños, Bana, Tininos, Cardenas, Matanzas,

Colóns,

Santil Clitril,

Sisgua la Grande, Cienfurgers.

Sancti-Spiritus,

Cailiarien, Trinidad, Camaques, Cicgo de Sila, Florida, Murin, San-

tiago de Cula, Molguin, Victoria de las Tunas, Bayamo, Manzanille,

Guantanamo e P'alma Seriano: a salão de riga: lo doergente: es

salão de banho; d) pista para dentes.

TERCEIRO: — Declarar, juer inimo, além des artigris compre-

enalidos nos parágrafios primeiros e cegundles, us segues genero 9)-

los au racionamento no territário da cirale Havana: as carne de lai:

los frango: do priser; e ossi: e a leite frenco de saca, leite comoletardo e

leite esaporado: () lanana da cerra, latata dece, mandirnia, sipim, ca-

baça, batata e inharne.

A LLANTIDADE DOS KICIONAVENTOS

QUARTO: - De arigos ácima relacionados serão li-tribuidos

nas seguintes quantidades: a 1 920) gramas de gordura come tivel, izeite

ou banha de porco, por pessoa, au més, em delo o territórin anciral:

U) 2,500 gramas de arroz por pessoa, ao mès, em todo o território nao

cional: e, 6e210 gramas de feijão de qualquer tipo, grão-de-lice, er.

vilhas e lentilhas, por pervis, nos prósinos nose meses, eno toulo e let-

riturio nacional, distrilmielas mensalmente.

-10

Para no mercadorias registadas no territor da tirarde Marana o

relacimadis no serida purte divrilmir i: al inin

Larra de selo de traga prer presa, a mes: li vino porção inglia le

eletragente puer presisna de més, ou ura porção grande para duas precena.

se rada familia, ao méstc) um jarligo de rabin le dinlerr por pessoa.

ari nés: do

un. alme de pista dentifricia para cada ilo priveis

a mes na ma culmi gigante.

cade quatro penais no nes

S Para en artigo racamado do ferritario da Porade natana: do

1.150 granie de carue de lon, por presa, por criana: lo) 5l: frane

1e92 gramas por pesom no mes: el 230 granas de proado com e

canas, Lavado e em pusta, por pova, caria 15 dias: d senaes para cada

presisa, ao més; e) l litro de leite diário para cada crança menor ile 7

anos. e l litro diário pira carla 5 pessoas ous crianças mainres de 7 anos,

oni o equivalente a 6 latas de leite condensado de maporada ao més:

1s 1,610 gramas de legumes por semana para l priva, distribuidas so.

gundo as determinações desta junta: 8) 920 gramas alicionais de le

gumes semanais, para cada criança qué não tenha rupletao ns 7 anni

de idarle: e ho 0.125 primas de manteiga por pessoa an més.

QUINTO: - No casa de pessas que sufram de enfermidades yu

exija. abererer-spá dolispnsições que ditari imediatauric me

SEXTO: 2-Pam argmização du raciomantentio. distritor.s

na Caderneta de Controle do

Alasterimento".

guillicada pelo Ca I.

exijam imprescind/celente mna dieta. curja.idade.avaircada cambet

maris primino an Tocal de sua residrncia. Nn casn de uma

familia

nan verelier

me memente coportune, a sua aderneta, dever!

rimá-la no distrita do C. D. K. correspindente à sua zina.

marração das lisritres e a direçãn de árgão de (. 1). R.

verin slisnl

gadas pela imprença. un periado da inscrição.

im e a figura o reale o e Retoria diana, as hr a

carregada da mesmia no caso de ser proprietárin do inovel. 1

DITAVU: — l'ara muniravar a sua condição de reunirei pela

fumia, apresitara tal pravia au respectivn. Cronite ie leiss da Ke

volução o ultini recilue que tenha sido alamade pela Refina Crlaus

mi velo convênio de jagamentos firmado com a Reforma Urina, in

muitito retilm qur tenha jago de resportivn imuito. me cäon de ver

" proprietarin

---

## Page 62

emprarios dari comedor dave diero mue alisariano a que pertenia in vers

Cimité de Itinar ride entr. gar-lar-à pariuiriariente a Caderneta.

muiticarlo à Kriuma l'rlaria vibre a siturgão amormal ela referida

anulia

DECIMA: — Nno cavis clas alleias uu fazendas assina conto lhes

ceando lairna inseluberes (Las l'aguas", rec.), as distritos din

...K.

i quse porrasine proceleras a uma prévia e quilachma in-

irrigação na entrega das catenicias de Aliencimenina :

DECIMO PRIMEIRO: =- Se hunder numa casa mais de uma fa-

milia a persra ilentiñula rino responsisel iara custar, solo jura.

nesta e miniono de pravas de que se compre o ir núcleo famitiar.

Neive sa48 e (: 1). R. procelerão a entrega da Cadernei correi-

juniente a carla familia.

DECIMO SEILNIXO: Cada responsivel por familia invers.

ret-ve-á no estabelarimento (snjr-metrialo, buruin, aeruque, arii.

rio, pandro de forurcimento de legumes e que proferir, senno de sila la.

calizaçãia l inscrição será limitala por uma área cobrindo & quadras

em qualquer dirmão. Se a prática aconselhar, nos mercados ou sliper:

sone mais ampla determinado a Junta as normas nesivirias

DECINO TERCEIRO: E

→ Se eni qualquer estabelovimento « nú.

nicio de respanisárcis par lamlias inscritos fr rotiriamente superior

à raprillade de operação do mesno, o Ministro do C'ontércio literior

pantera dispur sibre o limite ili número de clientes, respeitando a or-

deni la inutiçãn, denses casos, o C. D. R. é o Ministério do Contércio

enetior disparri vibre a inserição ens qualquer outro estabelecimento,

que amolher a rommsivel por familia dentro de sua zona de jurisdiçã..

"DECIMO QUARTO: Os hotéis, casas de pensão, restaurantes.

clinin, colegios mor internatr, junino ele fritas i°l, etc. verão ateridi.

nos diretamente pelo Ministério de Comércio Interior. No riso dos

hospitais e clinicas o previal do mesmo não pulerá consumir ragies

superiorri às correipandlentes au reito da população, limitando-se as

Inclicin da alimentação suplamentar aos enfèrmos neles internados

DACINIO QUINTO: = Quanto à regulamentação relativa às ci-

darles nercionadas no artigo segunlo desta resolução, assim como para

s. mohor diseribuição das gorduras, do arroz e de nitros artigos ile

1º1: Portas de tritos: Plato: de itunroquinhos, bolinhos de corna.

•.12

lererão cenroliar cus eo comites prisinais clas O:R.l. e com...

1.6.C.E.l provinciais, é éves subnecteran à decisin di lunta da-

cial para à Distribuição dos liguero arealquer sujenão que deixe.

art-les realtar para de melinor incinanento da dipritrriào..

DECIMO SENTO: A miração das disponigico contidas 18050.0

lica lenino vera sincionada cons as penas previstas a a

Pior que os escravos da Colônia

Frier so estamo lendos Mineria, Dino 1502, volo es almasio es

panhol, en escravos sinto, garanticlis puer lei e tradição, de serren

No gramas in dia dè carne ou hacalhai, 2.240 grandas de loganes, 111)

grande ile arroz e 120 gramas de banha de purer, 1°,

• Fine l'he2 solo a doniniegio connemia, no corratio

qualquer celuligas não pertença à clasos dirigente e nem Fidel nem

¡hortin vice entrar na "fila" — si tem direito por lei o que tamben

Tal iten

scutar que seja encuntrado rietirainente.

neutres frincalores - 30).5 granas de carne e 17.5. granus de prist

jur dia, 112 gramas de arrey, iN gramas de leguns e 35 granias de

Terlie isvo fos de qie comsegaria quer afinano que "sen a satisfação,

•las necessidades dis lumen nino li nem dennerarie 001 lilertado pers.

¿vel": "ls lamuras vie escravro de riula ciprivie de miveriase per isses.

retar e eine que liberte o por de vale género de genica-

é esploracias.

Uma Sentença Econômica

"No mes de aberil de J'Mi2, Carro condeno formalinte

His frus.

traides invavires de Maya Girin a frabalhes forendes durame Boänoi

• meine que lensein resgataches por um total de 12 mil

''' Tomouto do "Bondo de 14 Mi nonembro de 184) do Gomernastor Don»'

e Jos "Apunto: Autógratos Inéditos" de José Antonio Soro-

•3:, Outarios de F, Costeo no CMO.IV 21 de Moio 1950

---

## Page 63

14-00000

Vir mos interensa analizar aqui-a piares moral n juridica da ques

rio. (Mase olicer que cinlas as organizaçíes resulecinárias rubanas

relaçaram sal proposta de negociação dro Tirano):

A interessante friso apuras a entrosidade urgene que doil es

minantistas enleae de com uir dolares.....

displicaçar: Muito sutil. A sua maiur fonte de dirias é a indus.

tria açucarrira. Mas, a truca de compradores = U.S.A. pelo Plin

Socialista - tere resultados inteiramente negativos, apesar das decl

raçues do atual Ministro das Indústrias, Ernesto "Chir" Cucvara, mi

março de 1950:

•FALA-SE EM DIMINUIR A COTA DE AÇUCAR

CUBANO E MESMO SUSPENDE-LA INTEIRA-

MENTE. QUANTO ANTES MELHOR: PAKA CUBA

ERA L'M SIMBOLO DO COLONIALISMO. NOS

MOS AKKUMAKENOS MELHOR SAN OS JUGOS

IMPERIALISTAS".

Sirva: como iluseração das conquências desta "lilertação do

inperialiso" o seguinte fato: em 1957, o total dos salários jajos aos

trabalhadores agricolas e industriais, no selor agucareire, subiu a 320

milhares de premes (elolareso, cifra que representara quase 50% do valor.

total da prinlução désse ano, e que era u resultado das cimquistas devi-

das à federação Nacional dos Trabalhadores Açucareiros (Os iutros

¡atores da prolução eram: ns colonos - empreiteiros agricolas = é os

fazendeiros empresários industriais -).

O valor total da jrulação açucareira vendida ao Bluen Socialista.

egundo o Convénio que serviu de lase para regular a saíra de 1961.

elevou-se a $300 milhões de pésas (4 milhões de tonelidas a $ 0,04 av

1D gramas). 'Isso quer dizer que o total percebido pela safra vendida

no Bloco Socialista não chegou a cobrir o que era antes a participação

de une só slos fatores da produção açucareira.

Aléns disso, essa quantidade paga-se, solircredo, eu mercadorias

se ná qualidade e não em dólares

E como se isso fosse pouco, a saíra (como tôdas as demais ativi-

dades do pais) foi bastante fraca. Em murço de 62, afinnou "Che'

•suevara, nuna reunião de trabalhadores aguareiros: "A primeira

afirmação a lazer é que a saíra föi má".

E afirmo que a seri afeio us canaitais nus que a principal ra-

ão da faixa da provlação li o trabalho agricola e inustrial mal feitos.

Degois de retelar que simente tres ou quairo das reito e sessenta

usinas de asecar haviam cmseguido as cotas prerzstas, acrescenton:

"Trahalha-se com deficienci, no cumprimento das metas pri-estabele-

ciclas".

Segundo Guevara, a prolugio deste ano atingiu sinerite a 3

mullares de conclailas de

samarbruta

foram queimados muitos cantviais

RESUMINDO:

.- Não foram criadas musas indústrias:

- Algumas indistrias foram paralisadas

- Diminuiu a produção.

- Cain e giralidade dos produtos:

- Hi necessidade urgante de divisa

- O trabalho foi mal feito.

- Há saboragens.

Tudo isso por que?

Os marxistas apresentam dois mutiros; o princins

di agresunes

cio imperialismo ianque: o segundo, as dificuldades inerentes an co-

migo de ciela Revolução.

Subre o primeiro, deve se afirmar claramenteio de uma vez por

sinlas, que foi Fidel Castro quem deliberalmente procurou o ajoio

do Khao Socialista e a inimizade dos Estados Cinidos E acim procedeu

com telo a cinismo, enquanto prochimara o contram fatendo-se de vi-

tinta.

A 17 de abril de 1959, eni seu discurso, peranis a issociação

Ture-Anericana de Diretores de Jornais em M'äshunton. Fidel Castro

ricclarou (em ingles) :

- Desejo esplicar que não viemos aqui por dinheiro, E possível

que muitos outros governos tentiu vindo aqui por dinheiro e muita

seule ere que cada vie que um governo veni aqui vem por dinheiro.

-15 -

---

## Page 64

nir esara de acordo na que se corifundisse a finalitide da riagina (d)

¿ antigo miniero da Fazenda culano Kuio Ligie lirapur d..

diano:

- Quando anganhei fidel a este pais em abrit e poso e pri

sciro ministro ine advertiu, quando saints de Marana para que nio

lioritisse assuntos mminicos cubanos con as autoridades lampri

ros ia capitali ras do Vorte. Ers diversos orases, cirante a viageni:

Castri ripretiu a adrertência.

Esta é a razão pur yuc, panin visitri o

mitiro do Tenni, Robert 18. Anderio, não respuli as inlicaio

itriais de que as Estados l'nidos cram farorareis a pirear ajiula au

rativi pais Tumbim pir esta razão, durante ansia permnencia em

l'ashington, quando troquei puntos de vista com o Sulcerário de

Evado para Assuntos Latinuamericanos, tuo Rebontoni, ingi uma

inditeriosa cortés ante sua declaração cinetita de que o gruerno des

Estalos Linidos clesejara salr como e de que forma pauleria roperar

con u fuirmo cuharo na solução das necessidades recinics mais 1r-

gerirsi. (5)

Overo dus peritas financeiros cubanos, o antigu previdente eur

Banco Marinal de Cula, Felipe Paros, falou da reunião a que assis.

tiram o subserretário Rulmerom, funcionários do Departamonto de Fi.

tado e do Departamento do Tesouro, o Ministro da lazersla culano

Lóper Fresquet, o Ministro cubano de Economia Regio Bulle o pro

pria Os morte-americanos, que haviam tomado a iniciatura de comparar

a reinião pediram repetidas vézes aos culanos que dissesum o que,

os Estados Cuidos polian fazer para ajuda-les escrontier e imma

ramente. Arados pelis instruções de. Castro, as culania ui punteram

regaunder que são necessitavam de ajuda e que nau rinhams nenhun

podido a lazer. lazos passon pela mesma esperiencia no lando dai

netario Internacional. O terceiro perien culano, De. lirnesto Betan-

nurt, fez as messas revelagines.

Isto não quier dizer que negociagires finaneriras do criminricai

entre os Estados Unidos e Cula teriam dido neressariamente un ces

récho feliz. Signilica, sim, apesar de uma impresso contária mnil

disseminada, que Caitro nem sequer quis tentar a negeciasin. l'iuler-

seria replicar que a resulição na qual pensara não paulia ser apriarla

(4) Prediaraos of lournaltra, Alos da Sociedode Narle-Americono da Arerore: de

• Israsis

1958 80д. 87

(5) The Tunes il Marana, Mrámi: 19-17 de Sotembro 1901

¡chr Forarlos l'nico, mao não é isso o que cona dilo as pronaga lista.

dle Ciaore, que tem preferalo a irosim mais fantistica de lrof. Mäll

vibre a "iria acrillida" di prensula, inchisire, a radichto ile prassa

importancia".

Muito mais livido fi o camarada" dirnein "shr" diucrara. Fide

param inelanou Nu prisamento fa assini. a 13

sir nirpo ile l'kit, declarou pompesanale: "l'or iso, pista a questão

•e corrie amtra forca o untero ilo mucrilismo é im ritorio deca

drile fare ai da truso suntética, da Krymblica l'opular da China e

dos perivos vercialistas".

ntrega da Cuba oo

: Bleco

trazido temo a oprasedo

ao poro cubano o qu

parera lorer rir. a Fidel

16* Nikita, untdos

•em

antimo: abraço

E nellores ainda, mais cinicas e descaradas foran as dolarióss

que circunsáncias internas levaram-no a expreisar a 19 de dezembra

de 1'41, 101 "Acrodito no arrono. Si ero no larxismo! Aere

litara " 1" de Janeiro: Sime, astelitava e I de lanciro (1959) 1

decilitara a 20 do Jullo? Sin aereolitari e 20i de Tulho (1453)09

Talarros de F. Coslro no CMQ-TV 1.8 do Desembro 1901

---

## Page 65

"Terei algumas dúvidas a marisa che Marsisino e enteneli

interpreticos foram musanlas e urá preciso tere peur algumas

Sai tonho

a nunme dúvida sabre éle !".

Algumas jessicas ceno ue indagadio se eu pensa mance ale

atingue du Quartel Somala (157-S3)

coriso pense hoje

¿quem quer que lia o que deramas raquela casao vera. que

se trata de um ducuniuto curiti can muita cautcla e a titronus.

escrilo son cuidado, se houvescritas lancado: uin prirrana iis ra-

¡licai... não seria coirguilo a aniplicule que Pego e que tinera pas.

"ivel a vitúria".

"Nãn se pulerá requerer jamais, a meu crélier cos

primeiros dias depuis du triundo ris visitantes que chegavanio a misha

CaNa".

repugnara-me de veriade aquela procissão em lirio de

mim de sinla aquela gente naquele dia. Bem, mas, seu primiro lugar,

sue estarão acaso acroditando: E su dizia: os que acrolitalle, mellna.

(Junto maios nunero aerrlicar que paulerá vir até cá e erastar comeso,

melar! MAJJK SER A SUKPRESA QUE BLES TERÃO"!

Mi-lo ai, eno suas prágurias palavras. Marsista há muita timpo, ne-

gou essa condição durante muitos anos e sérelita que o blexo meialista

está eno ascração do mundo e que a furça do "'imperialismo" extá en

decadincia cuni relação a éle.

Pois ben: o "pintereso" Moro Socialista, liderado por unigranto

pais, que cinta com 15 anos de socialismo, não pude salvar à scimo-

na sunana. lasne está sendo já demoniserado.

consi as leis é pralarras

as preperias comunitas chames

A Economia, Talvez, mas a Liberdade, Não.

agora vanes preceder a coicestes do cango da legica pura.

le valdos conceder muito.. Tanto cumo nem sequer Krusch con-

iericria... (le se nãn o aerolitam, verifiqueni seu discurv, de março de

11k2 -

15 anos de socialist - súbure a agriculiura na L'HSS).

l'anios conceder que a preblema cronimico possa vie i ser.

revivida

¡aqua a 100 ou 150 anos. Mas o que não se pode solucionar é a falta

le leraale: e com isso pisamos ao segundo argumento.

•As dificuldades increntes ao inicio de rua remulução - anim

juência da eliminação da opoxição da Direita:

-não foram grandes.

as lei recheado e entre Fule Casos (at

C contumiso musara cantade de um setor e a pescra de clene.

in querer i uniãn de nada do stires o de siulas as mendigin

simplesmente porque de cue perrar clauragio eu ales de e

Mures da vila urial. E inco ja a merguimos, emianilio a Reinado

Pare 1) e do do por as i prisa de nadas nali Mir'esica

em duvida ala leis profundarente revolucionirias".

O Pus, de fato auna Carne m sou pagrama.

mais falirse

9. (n0/d-80 o lixo chão.

(alta de astentaria rédico).

Mas o

lingo denina chenho a sua trigar, se upais a Caseni

Liso yue se quemam casar cumerciais, indústrias can

Vras..

Por isso, a trabalho e mal ¿oico. Por isso, as prisin estão cheias

l'ir isso, é grarule de mimoni de esilarkes. lor isso, fuzila-re entinai

mente..

"Il Potauros de 8. Costra no CMO, TV 2150 ARDO 1939

-10-

---

## Page 66

14-00000

rivivais thi § mil mialior que haria ru Cile strano do palo

0 cenir irism.

"t il emernheiras caricitas 34l

O Profissional não tem Liberdade

QUE SE VAYAN

LOS COBARDES

profesionalor

de Enformeria

QUINTA DE

DEPENDIENTES

Keuptuoicessio

Muilias

CoM'

l'rotiasio-

Haio feriale Piulla.

die.

i firca, sell

salecringion legais

de coscie alguna.

Fisige-se

11 801

jurante de fi.

delidade

au se.

Kimr. Torna-se

clificil in sisiolia ele

Me In " 94

negior in profissare

1109 /420.07/M1586, 8118

a relugiar-si. 1111-

Enta emanisarla ri-

trangoira.

Malhares de prella-

sionois dignos têm

¡abandonado o país.

colatorando desta

mantira do enfra-

quuciciento do

Reglmo.

Dor leme as aloseciacies l'nofissimais foran tranolinoaho mi

finlo e abrigus, sequens

se e ucrale que es prodismis sia as nuo nale pasti.

• Estudante inão tem Liberdade

das eritros eficiaio, fornu sultinias ai lominciro Enerlantis

pelia " Nucciacion de Jorenes Kelelles"

organizaçar, militar jussil

"lesement Sirialina".

Brigadai Unire!

*Hojer em Cubo, o estudanto es iom "o disello

dostilar unitormizado.

-=1-

---

## Page 67

•1:0.1.N. alan dismo, retria de trarizuime l 13 de maras di

eles auster jere le direno dalos, foi cli mune semificativa: "furènuis

sinaliva - lines Kolaules (il mscara, = Jurelate Comunista".

garantis e nornalidale quiscimal ils cunos garlas. Di paralolamonio

e funenton a criasão de grupos de "juarris perulcionáris", para

penritar luis drunleis, ene soja: o prosesti da "interienção". O pri.

incito erriere a maires interreagio pur ave scireto fui a liscola Filo

tremania Bolen en Marana, ona ierorrino de 19%61.

Mas a spanicio firme dos estelandes iorirma a radical EisT.l.

TIZACÃO IN: TODOS OS CENTROS EDLCICIONAIS MA

NAÇ:RO, 1o mies de inaio die 1901. a

da l'niverilale de Maran a IS de julo de 1161), en runião

caleada no anfitearo da dacullado de Filavia e Letras, una minoria

le esentantes e alcuno poucas cantrice irandore, concurdaram en

disenver o Caniello Universtário e telás as Congregações de Pro

essires e emilir inna unta de (riverno ratarla por. quairo es-

concinno sodes 1s profesures a aratarea sua, "'autorilade"

"apilo" - mais

da lei sso o Convorno legilizar e capare lunta de Civerno"

da l'uiserilade de Oriente, chegase ans extremos de forçar.

malane mie campana de calínias, a reincia de Keitor, fundador

di mesmo, Dor. lelipe Salines e de esputár un numerose grupus de

alunos polo simeo falo de terem assiriao as ic-tividades religiosas

de "Santi Tontis de Aquito", no lia do Esulante Carilico.

O krieir da L'aivernale de las Vitas Dr. l'edro Oliver, e u1

grupa prolesures arriviram suas plas laginde nunta emiarcaçá.

for à perigei de que foral catinos degas de pretestar contra ":

fossilamento do l'residente da Perlergaro Forolanil C'niversitirie. Por-o

firio Kamirez, pie in capitão do liverrito Arable na luta conrsa a

Ditalura de Barista.

linnplata dive quarles ela vienzia, anisenitaria e rintrük, pur inu

l'nieribile- fancimario do M'iriorivita Fuucação e due I.V.K..A.:

ara a mitraila de cateratico prela arairatarin

Krantho, aeganne e priprio l'aero Vaturalmtte, huje o Sti.

sero ili tducaçãn dem que ma: tentarm su sirino da Herolição."

E Ro semma Do Os pais não patem minzerar a sous filhos a edu-

raça, vire desejarem: 21 su-os menino de "Jurretude Comunista

Iuniona ver dirigentes esturlantis; di sii de moravers incondicionais

perdera ser cutrilritions: 4l En todos o nirris è curriculos deve-sra

rentar dirigarriamme o Marsinal iando abilido o ensino da

qualquer mutro siverma filowifion.

O Camponês não tem Liberdode

A Lo e Reforma Agrária Ciutere deicada aus micsmos princi-

pios da mericanare da baliviana, put ser siniclicada, cinguinto pro.

mesa etcati a cate fragmento da aurirlinia ile filel Castro no pro-

resse pelu atague ao Quartel Moncade: (8). "L'in gorémo revoluci""

márin arguis de assegurar em suas nolinias cina cariler de donos, aus

ren mil equenas agricultores que his pesam orrendamentos, soli:

cimaria aristaturtamente e de forme itinicira, o problema da terra

•P'rinicini: ecalelerenlo, cono ordena a Constitiição, un maximo de

extemi pure cada tipo de empresa serina e aruirindo o excessi:

dor ucio da espropriação, reivindicando as verras usurjadas ao Estado?

carlo la seriore pare gra gurando o efante

calisminil ctre as lamilias campaneas de preferencia as mais nu-

nierinze" funientando cooperativas de estiutores para a utilização co.

1' de ryuigamentos de grande cusi des irigurificas e de uma só

diraão paurianal e rágnica para as cataras e a criegão è facilitando

for am. ro mursas. ryuijamentos; prontio e conhmamentos ulcis ant

camponnes

Da Narraliade porén, que aconcera?

Di Posero 1o Mentono do Morataro 00n l. Corto 193

---

## Page 68

14-00000

lollato V07001ad060 Kopor Bera

Pat foniature amperativas agrarias do inertalia sereirelito gale

salão palor lentinen bastinal de fofonia lererio ques sorte de oper

lisparlas rue sirendle du erecrusinato vida lei, marine uelo a sica ali

mise indial denso tipo de argeniasão ceriane e verial, ri pier 5

renner pror lri a sia niais rigilo autromia

le o referir i unie "Mages inteial" nii camioi del juieno, je our ido

meria ir porinciparo como rialiders..

lir oper de "les"

roles é, não foi prenaiida, a livre iniciarisa do campanré.

Dorido à renintenche

do campones colas impositos la Raleria Agrárin

Comunisto, o Regime tem ido que atrasar as muinerme

laser irabalho de lavoura

A terra é de corr i parales" é u ne Merende drenuir o ar

Ele terras de suruno, privarte cultivadas palus colnuis, sub.

carais, arrenlar r ar dilmarelcarso parecerin e lacariotas, verão

ljolicalão gratuitamenos e pue culmilares, quanto a sua exiersão

'sus "srele di, "'minimidtal". Co, erarolo tais agricultores cultivareno

ereras inferiiro à dive "munime viral", ut the-in acrrurntada, gratui.

•antnle, de terras morara furi conspurti las, dupre que so. posse

dispar das tramao e so rumlicito ernsimicas e ariano da região o pri.

e tetras culiais in cave yur e mencion

anter e dom de munime, sitel

miltr que nao sam de ru.

listares do artraltaria cab-areenidarie rolamo, snb calos, parceiro

ine livrarista, irriat. 5i hortasto

¿litista gratuito drpuris

previa

pel, lastituto

Nacional

ile

Keforne

20702r +10s

pererinário, nelianer prarla

frercarli.

¿que errela da areiajulicada gratuitamente.

+(9771e 810 0196192-

•de 1un limite eir fe.

Mãe aris, mento do ve nien de

tala de propriolade, di na porárica

lene silo anosin.

Relatanente

frien distribüntes puaserna

titular de

lera terra.

mine un expuras conta permissão

gerarielaide na qual es sus depende da i

eles Toda tritica em contri

amat, neglierse dai

et inturante in tireituti

asse a titulu gratuit

sumi, comer de seune, não, les fritara

ve existins o artior, 14 diz:

enla

is promricharle agricoia.om keral.

ar agrionla

Reformes

luraria formulará, dentro de prazo, de trés meses, a partir da porcumul.

alado pririn de lei Argenira dos referid

Epuroden: z2

puter to

- 25

---

## Page 69

14-00000

Bancail 1rre 1000, a les (hgnt surd 11.10

OI TEKSATIVA.

Fico rese di maio conselsiro: de cangurto comeril de merizade gio

rosaliais, ent go ele comtrole roupletes.

O Operário não tem Liberdade

BASESINOS

¡BASTIAS.

LECOMUN Sme LES

ESTANDIETA MEROICA

O oporario lulián Montoninos arrassinado pela Milicia Comunisla

en-tusaio

procurara nello na Embalanda in Enundas.

uha ao masse traludalaças en comoligios de dirigir ie pirentagio e

di trilagin de arindo eras do interés de lonhos!

Vio.

Ai ingrias de munercin errerir clinterior e as simliados es-

tão as mãos chi leade do ligado --igado a lano marsisea -

ha de redletir as univies do l'arcilo, nao as da saintar. ti pe isso

não se porrelatina quie repre entantes liverucate cleitrs par molares proi

10901909298

Jura dirigi-lo commo lers uisatino.

quin latin pirilicas

lara conioguir iu forn: as

"inter-

fendias:

-8rrnas trabalhi-ta

ir. 79

"Sejui-

os terror de 22 de jancire de lond, organa do Ministerio

¿o Trabalho comeria du Ministro, me incise j de se artigos. a facul-

aliade de "isiecruir mi empre-as pestronais

eunganicarios escrárias.

patronais é pere gissionais quando is ciremotancias e exigirem, juare

manter eon atividade dis centros de priolução ou o escróicio dos direitos

sindicais e

lerenandos

mauro guer mudisco justificado on devas vistas à Lei,

¡nar no delegados interromores que coleor alerguezelos

puer se rafinilade".

"interrreiçine»

rien o Ministeria de Triballe cin patrão efetivos, egui.

lende a "n

21

de lu de marge de JND, disponi

Tratalhisa, convertrinl

cimiteiga.

1: 1

lizigiino

do l'rit

'Tral

junto que lhes negia até se di

COM 95

artigno l." ela digere, de ici

2e de daneira de doras, whire

ertin.

Trabalhista para efeitir do

KEGLLIMENTE ECONTROIE.o. niiet:

nes que lhe farei

mubro de 1'xd) forans

presas nacionais. permaneca lei Do é conlis dis 1

já no nos de junho leviam se nacionalizado (ai

macializacio as usina de amear de peragerica

351

cill•

liante a 591.

re: anneticana

- 97

---

## Page 70

¡ li de ementira, Castro menino sai-dris pela tetoriar e de 0e1a

diverses se arlue, implicita, a definição serialiva da temuliçios line:

¡le: "' programa de Moncada joi rumprilo". Mai no tralalharrei

que riulan ascmúria são praleriam acreditar. Disse laserr raqueir

recavião: "al terceira lei revilucionária unturgava (ar savi de ler tri-

unfarlio e atar au (huartel Moricallas aos tralalhader e emprezasos

e discilo de participarem de trinta pure cerito das utilidades em tinhas ao

grandes emprésas induvriais, mercantis e ele inineração, incluindo ai

centrais açucamiras. lucricavam se ai timpresas neraiente africa:

Jas, coulo em visa a implantação futura de outras leis agrárias".

¡eslidaniente, o programa do Moncada não se haria cumprido.

*) A conninaçãr dos sinlicatos loi iniciada pelo Exerutisa, da

Confortação de Trailharlores de Cula, C.T.C.. mesiante a ouls.

spissão, canção su espular de sus integrantes. Fair a isso, tisse foi

dificil preparar eleiçãos gerais euna cinelidatura mica e colunis ens

branco, Alesse a care de alguém ue dumon a decisio de anseientar auá'

candidatura pela cólura cer leranero, ens sens centro de trabalho: do muli-

cianos do centro, um dia antes da eleição, deram-lle a riulher: retirar

o prolido uu ir para a prisão. lins neros lugares foi mais facil: re asivo

de ser-se eneerrado do prazo da cudidatura chegim no dia euinto de

presista.

Com tal esquema não é dificil compreender a "inora mentalistade

proletária", Lal como se expressa na revista "Cula Sirialista" (ere-

reiro de 1'X12, 1.U.45): "

...: com antecedencia ao lI Cingresve lacio.

nal, na pesalidado des Congresuns das Inclúserias so bavia concredado,

por unanimidarle que, a partir ele litz, se renuncio a algunmas san-

sagens de ordem secunliria que ceros setôres operirios laviam con-

seguido, em suas justas lutas cintra os patrões. Entre pisai se acha.

por cremplo, de chamado 13.9 més de fins de ano.

Os mithies de pesos que se destinaram a eite custrito, almeria-

riani os fundos do desenvolvimenen industrial... linero isar vanta-

gens, micunira se tambeni o pagamento dos chamado nove dias jui

enfermidade, que em alguina, inclustrias era feito aus trallhaderes ni,

fim do ano mesmo sem ter estado dentes. Os Congresin Sindicais de

comum acúrilo reunciaran a esia prática viciosa que alimenla a fallo

ao senbalho...

"O NI Congrescidi CTC-Ke as Cingresos Sinlicais Lar Indus

trias... crsvieleram a necrisidade ile revisir dos velhos cutrarres de

- 18

iratalho, que não eurre pundlen mais à nora sisuará. e dentro dess

quais er emmmram rinuslos yur poriam a fricasso predito.

mi cinlas au inlustria e tralellar, conn ericão do incolisores e pari

dares ens cois que a prabalho fe dito parar e cgigante, os pratalhardarir

pralialhon rférisionei a dia de viro horas.

.Cina rola dalta de liberdade é muito faril manerar ia murula emo

•jans cin que as classes prallharlsas.

raram de recrrer a greres in reclamarie.

Em Cuba ninguém tem Liberdade

a cuta não la liderale de expreso ne clares do do

nurembro de l'k,l. 19,

cinarie das "(rganizages Ke-lucimárias listegraras"

rins: lirrar-s da resposabiliolale pelas injustiças que citoni e ir pre-

parando « andronte para is crescio de P'artilo Lirico com férrea dis.

cipolinao: "logo los, teudo dor isguarade (o informeiro e pirogragandas

estia loje mio 1030as mins e coree periticamente o piarie convilerável

desde en primeiros meses da krerlução.","

•je ludas as estações

ilo riolio estan em mãos revolucionárias e sobra direção da Comissão

de Orientaçao Revrcionária": "Ao lio estacio estão loje

ila kevnlução, as duas esenções nacimais ile iclesian gales os jomais

a Dentro de um rupema textilário, como o sinetente

muito facil enra cisivo.

Igual métilo é usado para conguir as "grandes cncentrações

"P'arque eni vez de fezer tantas coleras (Disn Carral nas Pra-

sarem uma hotalha pela precinisiarte: Coe se euroscitamento dos

recursos hemiano, ene vez de cratear sW) mil meravela

centircursO milies de vesos, honestadreresi

te. Não e muin mclhor de que andar mendigandos i

edindo

Miesnho cristines. é crunacir lixla a gente ver mus deleganis

e revolucis

mirini mi, "icaretas":

lucret no que mapre. regista que

não a le: Perole is pais, com o papai que consonic e perde o jornal pos-

pe, eitão se legarado a il desconso ao leitor que nascelo mias que

Tosos. or. rieitos que voguem foram putircadoi

no Dióno 14 Mundo

Novemaro de 1981:

- 29

---

## Page 71

Ine porrer ser sul impondra E mito nelhor sereno tirarlos § mil di

¡il riemplarre a mirthe e apire dalo de mignde e coupro rimultanca:

arisas que implicano messo rigai ele disuras ubriariries, ¡ive enta m

Printo la descontiançs de lile e piiir".

"Quanho nee imligaram: lere jar que ricreto de nuitar o vindi.

cade pior asumltras: l'ingue de cuira nuncira nino pugarão siulini:

On seja: nu furlo há un procio inserirto para aborigar a prete a

"Hà normedi ena que dio mio parigices para falar au peria)al

tade le in legjo para cisa, se no detira ali eletomise a degrosto: Martrà

nuiso; que pira que não digam jer nio quere susir, ¡kam".

• li mais dirreaneie, dêre a sia rang a vigilancia ns "Comirés ete

litiro di Keradrisio"

e no arres du "Degartamento de aggrance

io Fivarto".

COMITA DE

LEFENSA de lo

•EVOLUCION

PUCCiON

ENSA

MIENC!S

Os membros dos C.D. R. são 0s.

para coagir o jora

le e radio irerairad pulos piores elemeneno paparlare-. L'nda ileia

disce rimes dirla pulao perinaria perlaura, de Firtel Caolres:""--15172))

e haviano realelociolo n:la in Comiré de Ieiesi... Cornité ile Ile-

dia nn "chiguire"

sue entra ereda".

sibre un senrireis agentendlo Depureamento de Segurança du lis-

orto innes de nava a Caro: "Bassa que qualuer cinoanheiro

mina granja, mina cimperativa, numa asina de asmar, venha a crer

que é membre da seguranga... e que tou pilores cmmulos sihre

a-liberalade das penas, qualune trabaltador, qualouer campones qual.

quer crladic punle se ver preu durante 15 dias ou 20, senir sist a sira

nuther. si es silles, mm ver ningrend e insu & realmente una

"Mas là alges que me precapa mais: mencionar e munse du ungãco

se inguransã, cion certo demor, dunio una aparato mistericoe che quiel

poxteria singir is qualquer nomeriso algruna arbitrarierlade.

"E não é figil esplicar co falo de que una cicladão puessia ser vitina

de una arbitrarierlade desse tipo. Como esplicar que un calalio es

Irja il dias preno, sem julgamento? Ou que eutro fique: 30 diase

depnis o solecm: Que entro ipo 3ã e curo 0D: le que, nesse interio.

ali da pricio le senano romado e carro e nicentena arrolantadio.

se e que chegaram a devolve-lo?... mase luta lace aos ladrées de au:

sonoris, mis

"rcupastores de carros livremente" que aml legalong

lioverno Resulisionário a sancimar una lei descromano prisco de

dee anos à trlo e membro das dorças armadas, miliciano. merliro da

vogurariça, que milizasso por conta premoria seiculo de una Inesica ICa

s... lei que, meliamente não los apinada ma so vez sheree

"E mou dizer com cula frangueza: grande númeri de calaios cin:

de mai e provarelmente de mil pessnas". a

2533:

*ad Reveluçã é a primeira a Lumentar que não piera suiceder

paramias indlivinais...

..porogor as evisas cendio o prego inevitável da Revolução.

_ 31 -

---

## Page 72

i essas palavras. que nao precisam de cimentaris, ha que e jun-

¡ar a anulação do recurso de "halrias corpus" e a criaião des "Trilu-

nais Krilucionirios cujas trariveis caracteristicas iu as seguintes:

Fazer parte da jarisdiçan militar, gus inda mu cada cavos

• suklarlos e oficiais do Ecrito Kelable e das Alilicias que ileverao in-

«grá-los: sollarlos e oficiais, iltirais na maioria das vezes, que pa-

derem das condigies iniminas de ingarcialidade, independência e ca.

pacilade perpisárias à funcio de minierar a Jusliga

:*3) Ten facuhlades ira definir o delito e suas circusancias

asil conte jura giletenninar e grau e quantula das prias. (.

lim Cula, intei as leis iliziam que "ninguém prula sor julgado

por um crise que não estivesse previsa no Cuuligo", nem se puuleriami

impor entras sandr que ao copalaleridas nas leis penais". Di pnes-

11o 19ndo proibia-se a aplicação por analogia des cilios perecidos. Mas

C'astro olinnoes rielas as garantias de mulerno Direito l'enal.

31

Não hi registlade de provas para conlenar um acusado:

lera a acusação de agendo do Departamento de Segurança de Finado.

1) Não há limite de tempo para a apreentação dos derilos ante

as autoridades, num pira a realização dos julgamentos. O cariler ir.

regular desses Tribunais cona lesar a cases extremos, ne l'resálio Mi-

lar ne la Calaña, de Lizaro Kejos a consecando-se de surpresa.

para julgamento. sem se pualer disser de adrengaro, e condenando às

norte em 15 mintos de e ffrén Reelriques Calme, Misilado apais ler sido

rimeraro à pena de 30 mos

• l'ara resumir, bátam álguns palavras do maguitico analista de

regine conumista.

Miloran Djilas:

"O mecanismo du pauler comunista é aliás o mais sutil que se

possa:

conceber:

ainda yue leve

praia retintada o de esploração

sutileza desse mecanismo se deve a que um só partilo, o l'ar-

tido Comunista, constitui o lindamento de cola a atividade politica,

económica e ideológica. Tinla a siela pública fica detida, arauca, retro-

este e da salas ele astrole com e que sucede mes remrs do Parido.

(") loi 33 dó

21-de

anero de 1959:

do siteas cranniada a galle se cli rusta eni eguila da eue s

les jurente e uis se lhee pornite fazer.

E liso no roontamentos não ten importância mais copacial jara

cla. Mas sim, as regras reais e não raritas, no que diz resjicito as

religios miti

deis aulos salin que ii lansimma ela nas mari dus cemités do l'artido

e sla lolicia jocreta

Conclusões: Finais:

O Comunisma, Internacional prescade apmitar a Revoluçio Cu-

lana muin nnulele para a Aérica Latina:

Sai ile Cinla conmuamente enorme quantidade de

aloltamente corária a que ali auna e re aconter rogan,

di comunistas coleas insitam à realisagio da Mesolucio Mar.

vista-leninista. Inclusive duriente a crise brasileira de 1941, Fidel Cas-

eru crinolimon do porre lorasileiro à insurrição. Menos mal que este

mano é inteligente e nár, lhe fez caso.

l'ois as que fizeram cave do "misimo lider de Cols Sucialista

encontrario pes

Seu pausas a diviria e o terra?

Esperanos

que a leitura ilessao piginas ajule e me

pernila issn..

Quizerunni apenas ritar fitos, ciiras muciclas

Sejam suficientes, por fim, as saguintes:

Fui trés anos de Kerolução:

2.245 fuzilados

13.:Ud presos

300.000 exilados

1.000.000 de vistos perlidos.

Mis do que o Cuba Socialista". Niva o Marse enisno

-33 -

---

## Page 73

EPILOGO

Tinhi es ponler quer iria alquirinlo a rada et imizigrarin, mi

rae porcin, tua faer toit an eawans meialt

puer intenises conmuis.

Cimito pinlas ao suas ircenlades sublicas sirian a vio safinicita

jeto tintaddo arlquiriram en luinários cueãn intariia cinorino eu

manralnänite auvem ais que dlistrilusim aleum direir e lrclirit

lquéle yue quer agarria que a listaco muide iei puma màn soy que

cunlar dle st, sorta eritas qur tralalhar ua unalare lar demtino c .cmi

carria qpre d liscarlo pruleiv les assinalar, pasdro auoo éueo, milore ipuenà

cairiaru tinles nu deveres, se dlaria naeuralmensie rinlai do laculolarles ne-

resivirias paro auneguir as srcieo de cumprir aguãr. 1e eer u seni

de si priyrrio presseria lo lusneno il ser esetiroo sio Fisiaero. ll cretarco

elos captalisias, eune se dliz agori, inla dlé des crtae ddo fiileronaTie

Eiirraro è cualo aquele qpue trilaella pirra cennoo que feaa eluminiy

vilre ¿le: enmive sisena sex'lAlIST. daninaria a ermunilare ao

homzoni que à omnmidade entreggaria drelo oo seu sraibalhoo.

Ercano do tuncionariese ao seres humanus e paraarso prevariva-

Lirss scherluns anhiciss nessu organizages ieramn graunle puler.

apanades paer tinlos os que de aurmcitanmn dl cetareml se apraier

Bar dens almes epur arcls fordar vis quie senquz eamgrenn cntre

megrämrtnser terror, pretigmeot labilidlase sos que nndam.

iileo

sistena alo distrilurcio oficial dle tralaallo cinmune erergmiria usniruir

eno prueco temure brutalilades, ridlencias, luross iepirmres que g

capurito de mninelulislade, a antocidade e ausadia d sério r s

rucza cko vise eocinam pronta c fatalnente eo tiala inganicering hit

Mana. cho nau Plentents lumnans

diz Spegirr _rä, ve. punlrit fazer

boas instituioes oe Vmiseria pública erá, pois, crar venellianto sencia:

lismne palarel e grande. O) funcioalisi amoerario, abesori da plebe.

cansada i pralalladora: lamendasel será, e geral, a sirvilio".

112iF. V.IKTI.

JOSE MAHTI

11A59-18951 Jpuistolo da Indopendeuria ile Caba

---

## Page 74

Agosto 1982

---

