# 104-10169-10001

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10001

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1.920

•änd

DISSEM PER SOP

9888

• TONF8 LAOS

: 780374940

INFOS FILE, VRA: IP/ONS,

OOPD-D.

PAGE 001

0217272

MAR TO

STAFF

(BIP)

TOT&

DIRECTOR

180640

SECRET

TOS GUArACUTE INFO LATAMI, OUTPOSE - 12

STAFF 021727Z_DIRECTOR IBOBRGILN

16-14

- MNINTEL REAM TRACE

REFERENCES

A. [Guard dis 22009

8. [gullabUsE 17852 COATED 01 AUG 731

(201-030200869

FOLLOWING ARE HOS TRACES ON EVELIO DU DUE MIYAR

IN S6 DUQUE STARTED HIS.FIGHT AGAINST BATISTA IN THE

ESCAMBRAY ÄND OBTAINED THE RANK OF CAPTAIN.

IN JUN SO HE FORMED AN

ORGANIZATION UNDER THE NAME OF "CUBAN ANTI-COMMUNIST YOUTH" IN ORDER

TO COMBAT THE CASTRO REGIME.

IN AUG 60 HE OPENLY RAISED ARMS AGAINST

CASTRO IN THE

ESCAMBRAY MOUNTAINS.

DUQUE AND FOUR OTHERS ARRIVED MIAMI AREA BY BOAT ON 5.

JUN BI. A POA MAS GRANTED DUQUE ON AUG DI AND HE WAS CONTACTED AND.

DEBRIEFED;

HE wAS PUT

IN TOUCH WITH JMWAVE.

DUQUE ASKED FOR OUR

sies

ASSISTANCE TO OBTAIN ARMS AND RE-GROUP HIS GUERRILLA FIGHTERS IN

of 1 oct 6l

CUBA.

IT WAS AGREED TO ASSIST DUQUE AND GROUP.

HE RECEIVED' NO

SALARY AND THE ONLY COMMITMENT MADE WAS TO TRAIN AND INFILTRATE

in alias

DUQUES GROUP IF THEY FOLLON OUR DIRECTION AND CONTROL.

ON MAY. 62 HIS

POA WAS CANCELLED BECAUSE DUQUE REFUSED TO PERMIT TEAM TO ENTER CUBA.

SINCE THEN WE HAVE HAD NO FURTHER CONTACT WITH DUQUE.

IN JULY 63 DUQUE NOM LEADER OF THE EJERCITO CUBANO

ANTICOMMUNISTA, FRENTE ESCAMBRAY (ECA) AND HIS ECA GROUP PLANNED TO

TAKE THE KEYS ON NORTHERN COAST OF LAS VILLAS PROVINCE. THE TRUE

PURPOSE OF THE MISSIONI HOWEVER, WAS TO EMBARRASS THE USA AND FORCE

IT INTO DIRECT ACTION AGAINST CUBA.

ALSO WANTED YO SEEK RECOGNITION

FROM DAS AND UN WITH THE HOPE OF PUTTING THE USA IN THE MIDDLE•

HAVE NOT BEEN ACTIVE BECAUSE OF A LACK OF FUNDS,

IN 60 THE FU! REPORTS THAT DUQUE AND HIS ECA GROUP

MIS ACTIVITES!

FROM 1906 UNTIL 1973 ME HAVE NO INFORMATION REGARDINO

•M IN 7S (REFERENCE 8) YOUR STATION REPONTED THAT A

8148112VE CONSLATERAL PENING ON ME TE

LOCAL DRUG MILIEU REPORTED THAT

REGO DECRY

2766678

1101 - 208608

= ==

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproducea

5/8D

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 0374944

PAGE 002

TOT8 0217272 MAR 78

DIRECTOR 180640

GUAYAQUIL DRUG TRAFFICKER ALFREDO. OR D ON EÈ GONZALEZ TRAVELLED

TO SAN JOSE AND MET WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS,

EVELIO

DUQUE

BORN CA 33, CUBA• SERVED IN CUBAN REBEL ARMY,

LEFT CUBA IN 60 AND OWNS HACIENDA NEAR

BAN JOSE.

TRACES AT THAT TIME AND

PRESENT REVIEW OF 201 FILE FAIL TO CONTAIN ANY INFORMATION CONNECTING

DUQUE WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING.

PLEASE A

HOS INTERESTED IN LEARNING YOUR INTEREST IN DUQUE.

ADVISE.

3.

FILE:

BAPCOMMENTS

2010302008°

REF REQUESTED

RACE STOP SUBJECT.

03

ORIES.

LADCOIWH (BARR X1491) 8 COORD:

CALAICOIWH CMANELLIS

LANCARI &

28 AUTH: LA/VCE/E (TURBEVIGLESS RELA CALAUCE

(BEARDSLEYDS CL BY 012034.

A?

HER 30,78

• END OF MESSAGE

1/a0

---

