# 104-10107-10137

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10107-10137

• :3.

: 89-7

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OGC 69-0181

31 January 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Herbert Itlan

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

I. A meeting was held on 27 January 1969 with Mesars.

Rocca, Houston, Warner and myself to discuss the ramifications

of the confrontation with the New York FBI office on 17 January.

It was concluded that additional information was required on

031nomas L Roberts) and Robert Delson,'" I contacted the Directos

of Security and requested the security files on these two individuals

and the eury u.

and wag advised that we could not bave the security files but that

MI. Ward Greene would bring the files to the office and diacues

their contents openly.

032. On 29 Janyary, Mr. Greene brought the security files.

on(Boberts)and (Delsos) and was most cooperative in explaining

their contente. Attached is a chronological rundown on the

pertinent information on Thomas L. Roberte) affiliation with

the FBI, CIA and Ithin.

3. On 30 Januarya meeting was beld with Mesars. Houston,

Warner, Rocca, and Eugene Milligay, COSALPGLOBE, tO disCuss

the operational use of Mr. (Roberted} MroRoberte has been a

Stäff Agent of CIA since 28 August 1961, 10 From March 1964 to

Novembf 1964 he spent time in West Africa) writing a monograph

on West African legal)problems.

It should be noted that this

task was performed under a grant from a foundation which was

blows in the MHDOWEL exposures. In November 1964 (Roberts) 93

was assigned for Cover to the Radio Corporation of America 24

legal staff where he remained until March 1965 and then went

to Dakar)

12-10

SECRET

---

## Page 2

4-00000

The facts in the attached chronology are subject to

question since they are the result of (Roberts) owe explanation of

his affiliation with Itkin rather than having been determined from

independent sources. The most critical aspect would appear to

be the knowledge or suspicion that Ithin may have known of

03 (Roberte) affiliation with CIA. This kaowledge is borne out by

the strange way in which Ithin repeatedly bringe (Roberts) name

into the story which itan develops about his Cla affiliations.

-

Switzerland, in March 1966.

There appears to be no record of

03(Boberts') having explained why he never pursued the Itkin debt or

What his financial contribution was to the law firm of Inkin, Roberte

and Greenbaum.

5. Mi. Rocca was advised by Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI

that the New York District Attorney may be considering prosecution

against Roberts)for having abeconded with funde received from

negligence cases. We do not have sufficient information to evaluate

the likellhood of criminal prosecution. It may be necessary to

discuss this problem with representatives of Mr. Hogan's office.

6. With regard to Robert Delson) ¿here appear to have been

two operational considerations, one having been a request to use

him with Project DTPILLAR from November 1953 to February

1955, and then a request in 1963 by the Domestic Operations

Division for his use

on Project, WUBRINY. In March 1964 DO

Division advised Security that Deleon was not going to be used

on WUBRINY. Mi. Rocca commented that there are some rather

ominous allegations against members of the firm of Delton, Levin os

and Gordon) indicating that one member of the firm was a card-

carrying member of the Communist Party. At the present time

Ms. Rocca is lavestigating the DIPILLAR use of Mr. (Delson.)

JOHN K. GREANEY

Assistant General Counsel

?. i.

Attachment I.I

cs, C/CI/BRA

---

