# 104-10213-10209

## Page 1

1104-10213-10209

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF CERTAIN

CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS

Rescission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970

1. GENERAL

2. Elemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human

agents to acoomplish the missions of the Operations Directorate. In gen

ral, it Is DDO policy to select agent assets with primary regard in ta

comsiderations.

b. These probibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following:

(1) The Agency has been directed by U.S. Covermental authority to

sestrict or avoid the operational use of a particular category of in-

(2) The Agency has entered into a special restrictive agreement with an

osganization, govemment, corporation, or official responsible for a

(3) The Director or the Deputy Director for Operations has imposed

restrictions on the operational use of a certain category of individuals

due to the extreme risk or sensitivity of such exploitation

2 PURPOSE

The purpose of this instruction is to set forth the prohibitions and policy

restrictions (as distinguished from security restrictions) which currently per-

tain to the operational use of various categories of individuals, logether with

atter in any way the requirements for covert approvals contained in DOI

SEGRET

IS LUDIT

---

## Page 2

14-00000

posing

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 Septembes 1973

3. DEFINITIONS

b. DDO Element

Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled

either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under

this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-

c. Operational Contact

Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO

operations.

4 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (sec paragraph 5):

(a) Nembers and trainees of ACTION:

(b) Fulbright grantees;

SECRET

4...

• I did: st

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATION'S-GENERAL

4 September 1973

(e) Officials or employees of the International Association for Cultural

d) Officials, emplojees, or grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller an

arnegie Foundation.

(e) Employees of US. private detective investizatise agencies.

(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see

paragraph 6):

AND APPANUAL

OF SAlADDO.

(a) Employees of other U.S. Goremment agencies;

(b) DDO agents or assets in the United States: •

(c) Agents and human sources of foreign intelligence registered by —

other U.S. agencies;

(d) Citizens (or persons documented as citizens) of Australia, Canada,

and New Zealand;

(e) Citizens of Norway, SVest Germany and The Netherlands;

(t) Merchant seamen on ships of certain countries.

(3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see para-

graph 7):

(a) Publisbers, producers, journalists or emplojees of public infor-

mation media;

(b) CARE employecs;

(c) Individuals engaged in public relations activities;

ia the United States;

(e) Foreign delegates or employees of the United Nations assigned

in the U.S. and U.S. citizen delegates or employees wherever

assigned;

(f) Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies;

(g) Officials of the Vatican State;

(b) U.S. Government-funded professors, lecturers, students or grantees;

(1) Members of educational or private roluntary organizations;

(i) Officials or employces of the African-American Institute;

(k) Volunteers to America.

(4) Operational Use Requires Approcal by Chief of Area Division (see

.. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of

restriction will be contrulled by the highest type of restriction applicable

in his particular case.

3

SECRET

$3x08

---

## Page 4

14-00000

• - 1e..

SECRET

DDO INSIRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-CENERAL.

4 September 1973

5 OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED

a Alembers and Trainees of ACTIO.Y

(2) It is Agency policy that former members o! ACTIOY may be em-

ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction

only in accordance with the following:

(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former member of ACTION

Agency only it a period of five full years has elapsed since his

separation from ACTION.

(b) An Agency controlled organization may hire a former member of

ACTION, but only for duties related to the overt purposes of such

organization, if a period of at least twenty-four months has elapsed

since his separation from ACTION.

(c) The employment or use of a former member of ACTION under

the provisions of subparagraph (a) or (b) above must bave the

specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

(J) Former trainees whose ACTIO." service included duty or training over-

seas are subject to the rules governing employment or use of former

members of ACTION (subparagraph (2) abore). Former trainees whe

lid sot serve at any time as members of ACTION and whose ACTION

service did not include duty or training overseas may be employed or

used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap

proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.

he had been assigned while with ACTION.

originate with former ACTION personnel. However, any direct brief.

ing or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of

ACTION is subject to the following:

a) The specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operation

aust be obtained

SECRET

don

---

## Page 5

14-00000

C

•

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

1 September 1973

(b) It the individual is a former member of ACTION, or a former

seas, e what t serie pach did y or paintion over.

able contact would be the designation of a former member or trainee

as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division

Foundations

DO policy prohibits the operational use of grantees of the Ford Found:

on, the Rockefeller Foundation or the Cartgie Foundatiou or of othe

tacts or consultations with such individuals.

5

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

-

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

Be Ruse

&. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED

2. Employees of Other U.S. Gocernment Agencies

Approval for tbe operational use of staff or contract (including foreign)

employees of other U.S. Goremment agencies will be granted only in

cases where the employee's parent agency in Washington has been notified

of and has approved of the intended operational use in accordance with

che provisions of DOI 105.

b. DDO Agents or Assets in the United States

In accordance with the agreement existing between the Federal Bureau

of Investigation and this Agency, the restrictions listed below apply to

the operational activity of the Operations Directorate conducted in the

United States. Coordination with the FBI of appropriate infornation on

DDO operational activities in the United States is the responsibility of

the Chief, Liaison Group, Opcratious Staff.

(1) All investigations by this Agency of foreiga officials in the United

States require the prior concurrence of the FBI. In this context, the

verm "investigation" means systematic and direct inguines or pro

œedures (such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhood

inquiries) aimed at devcloping information concerning an individual's

activities or background; "investigation" does not include the ac

ceptance or the development of information through social contacts

or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their

cover functions.

(2) Any approach in the United States by a DDO element for recruit-

ment of any foreign official or of any visitor from a Communist country

requires the prior concurrence of the FBI.

(3) Any planned meeting in the U'nited States for assessment and social

development between a DDO element and a foreign official of known

or presumed interest to the FBI or betiseen a DDO element and an

official or visitor from a Communist country requires that prior noti-

fication be provided to the FBI.

(1) Whenever domestic DDO operations involve matters pertaining to

the national security of the United States, appropriate identification

of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be

!

SECRET

32415944

---

## Page 7

14-00000

C

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

provided to the FBl. In accordance with this policy, the following

categories of DDO assets will be identified to the FBI: DDO per.

sonnel, agents of the Operations Directorate who are either U.S. atizens

or alien residents, and foreign agents of the Operations Directorate

recruited abroad who come to the United States for operational

purposes.

C.

Agents and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence Registered by Other

U.S. Agencies

The Interagency Source Register (ISR) has been established at bead-

quarters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies

& centralized recurd of agents and human sources of fureign intelligence.

A principal purpose of the ISR is to register primacy of interest and

prevent multiple recruitment or unintentional duplicate operational use

of such agents and human sources. It is USIB policy that no individual

registered in the ISR by one U'SIB agency will be used for operational pur-

poses by any other U'SIB agency without the specific prior approval of the

agency having primacy of interest. If a DDO element desires to arrange the

transfer or joint operational use of a registered individual, the ISR will con-

lingness toy having primacy of interest to determine whether there is

iss tus mat

d. Citizens (or Persons Documented os Citizens) of Australia, Canada, the

United Kingdom (including its Orerseas Dependent Territories) and

New Zealand

(1) The operational use of citizens of the above-named countries (includ.

ing the overseas dependencies of the United Kingdom) is restricted

by agreements with the intelligence or security authorities of such

countries, which require the prior approval of the appropriate liaison

uthority. Such approsal will be obtained at the earliest feasible stage

of development through the Europeza Division (in the case of citizen

of Canada or the United Kingdom), or through the East Asia Division

(in the case of Australian or New Zealand citizens)."

(2) The above restriction also governs the use of false documentation

representing DDO staff or agent personael as citizens of the abore-

named countries. Approsal for the use of such ducumentation will

be sought through the same channels as stated in subparagraph (1)

above.

(3) Authority to make operational use of the persons or documentation

described in the above subparagraphs without obtaining the prior

approval of the liaison authority concerned may be granted only

by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director.

7

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS GENERAL

1 September 1973

of the national intelligence service concerned. These countries are par

licularly sensitive in cases involving the operational use of their citizens

is required from the national intelligence since concerned. When re

quired, approvals for the operational use of such individuals will be

obtained frum the appropriate national intelligence services by the Euro

pean Division.

f. Merchant Seamen on Ships of Certain Countries

The operational use of merchant seamen, regardless of their citizenship,

who are serving on ships carrying the flags of Australia, Canada, the

United Kingdom (or its overseas dependencies), New Zealand, Norway,

West Germany or The Netherlands is, under certain conditions, subject

to provisions of the agreements existing between this Agency and the

national intelligence service concerned. Each case involving the proposed

operational use of such a merchant seaman will be reviewed by the Chief

of the European Division or the Chief of the East Asia Dission, as ap

propriate, in the light of the pertinent interservice agreements. After

weighing all of the equities, the Chief of the European Division or the

Chief of the East Asia Division will determine the course of action to

be taken with regard to the national intelligence service concerned.

7. APPROVAL BY THE DDO REQUIRED

Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use

of any individual ubo falls into one of the categories described in this para-

graph will be requested by memorandum. The individual's corert approval

--

Director for Operations provided they constitute merely briefing or de

briefing for the purpose of obtaining information acquired by an individua

or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activities. If, however,

in any case the contact is on behalf of another element of the Operations

8

SECRET

5020

---

## Page 9

14-00000

?

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATION'S GENERAL

4 September 1973

of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual's

y firm's normal patter of activity, will take place because requested

unded by the Domestic Collection Division; that case will be subject

the requirement for approval by the Deputy Director for Operations.)

a Publishes, or 2, oumalis, or Employees of Public Information

(1) Operational use of publishers or producers of public information media

requires prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations wheneser

here is danger that such actisity might serve in any way to influena

J.S. public opinion. Such activities inciude but are not limited to th

oublishing of books, neuspapers, or magazines, the making of films

tates _of _any public opinion influencing information media. The o

rational use abroad of publishers or producers of public informatio

do the operational use of juurnalists, newspaper, TV, radio, or new.

service correspondents or stringers, and employees of news medi.

b. CARE Employees

It is DDO policy to avoid operational use of employees of the CARE

organization including indigenous employees. Exceptional individual cases

avolving priority operational objectives will be considered on their meni

rior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations will be require

in all cases.

c. Individuals Engaged in Public Relations Activities (see DOI 50-18)

Individuals engaged in public relations activities which in any way have

or seek to have an influence on public opinions in the United States are

considered to be in a separate sensitive category. In view of the peculiar

aspects of public relations activity, including the special requirements of

the Foreign Agents Registration Act, approval by the Deputy Director

for Operations is required prior to the operational use in a public relations

capacity of any individual who is engaged in public relations activities

and who is located in or uperating into the United States,

SECRET

•: =dare?.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATION'S-GENERAL

4 September 1973

d. Officials, Representatives, or Employees of Communist Countries in the

United Stales (see DOl 60-11)

rior approval of the Director or the Deputy Director for Operations i

required for opcrational cuntact in the United States with or operationa

use of officials, representatives, or employees of the USSR, its satellite

ountries, Communist China, or any other country under Communisi

ontrol If, while in the United States, such individual is to be investigated

approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational purposes, the prior

grapb 6.b., above.

e. Delegates or Employees of the United Starts

* is DDO policy that the operational use of delegates or employees o

se United Nations, including those of its various main organs and o

its related intergoverninental agencies, is of such sensitivity as to require

special consideration by the Deputy Director for Operations. In especially

worthwhile cases wherein operational use of a particular UN individual

is deemed essential fur the accomplishment of the DDO mission, approval

may be obtaiued. In each case involving a non-U.S. citizen assigned in

the U.S. or a U.S. cilizen wherever assigned, the prior approval of the

Deputy Director for Operations will be required. (See paragraph 8.b

regarding use of non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees not assigned

in the U.S.) Ii, while in the United States, the UN individual is to be

avesugated, approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational pur

roses, the prior concurrence of the FBI may also be required as outline

in paragraph 6.b., above.

f. Staff Members or Officials of Red Cross Societies

The operational use of staff members or officials of the International Red

Cross or its affiliated cational Red Cross, Red Crescent, or olber equivalent

societies requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations. DDO elements should make every effort to avoid

the opcrational use of staff members or officials of Red Cross societies. How-

ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative

agent assets are not available, approval for the use of such individuals may

be granted by the Deputy Durector for Operations.

& Officials of she Vatican State

Operational contact with officials of the Vatican State will be made only

with the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations. Operational

use of Vatican officials will be contingent on prior approval by the Deputy

b. US. Gooernment Funded Professors, Lecturers, Students or Grantees

U.S. or foreign professors, lecturers or students and other persons partici

pating in US. Coverament-sponsored academic, cultural, athletic or other

10

SECRET

D

D

---

## Page 11

14-00000

C

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

1 September 1973

the Deputy Director for Operations. The Deputy Director for Opera-

of the Deputy Director for Operations has been secured.

Volunteers to Ameri

perational use of or operational contact with members of Volunteers

foreign countries in collaboration with the Department of State as a

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14.00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

counterpart to the l'.S. Peace Corps. Such volunteers are sent to the U.S.

for a period of service in schools and community development programs

The name of the organization may sary by country.

& OPERATIOVAL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA

DIVISION

explanation of the intended operational use.

a Citizens or Alien Residents of she U.S. Used in Denied Areas (seo

DOI 50-19)

b. NonUS. Citizen Delegutes or Employees of she United Valions not Ar.

signed in the US.

tended use is to take place.

c Members of the Acodemic Community

1s.

SECRET

i

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GEVERAL

4 September 1973

operationally feasible and without suitable alternative, prior approval

in the following cases will be obtained as indicated below:

(a) Any U.S. citizen who is a membes of the academic community

and who is associated in any way with any U.S. or foreign college,

university or similar institution of higher learning;

(b) :Any non-U.S. citizen who is a member of the academic community

and who is associated in any way with any U.S.-oumed or U.S..

quested by memorandum to the Chief, Foreign Resources Division.

The memorandum will include a statement that the individual is, or

is not, a DCD asset or contact, and in the event he is will include

the concurrence of the Chief, Domestic Collection Division. If the in-

dividual is located outside the United States, approval will be requested

by memorandum to the Chief of the Area Division who has jurisdiction

over the area concerned.) Operational use of foreign members of the

academic comminity who are not associated in any way with U.S..

owned or U.S.-affiliated institutions of bigher learning is also con

sidered sensitive. The operational use of such individuals also requires

be approval ut the Chiet of the Area Division fIn any case involvin

well known person or having special security implications, th

Division Chief to whom the request is referred under the above pro

visions will consult with the DDO and obtain the latter's approval

(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) do not apply to Domestic Collection

Division contacts with members of the academic community, but such

contacts are subject to the following requirements:

(8) If a member of the academic community would be asked to per-

form an operational task or to alter his normal pattera of activity

in order to serve Agency purposes, prior approval of the Chief,

Domestic Collection Division is required. Additionally, if such an

individual will be in a foreign area, the concurrence of the Chief

of the Area Division concerned will be obtained.

(b) Prior concurrence will be obtained from the appropriate Area

(e) The reguirements of paragraph 8.a. apply if a citizen or alier

resident of the United States would be used in a denied area.

(1) At the end of each calendar year, Chiets of Divisions will submit a

eport to the Deputy Director for Operations (via Chiet, Forei

(esources Division) on the number of individuals recruited from t

13

SECRET

stre

...

---

## Page 14

14-00000

.

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTIOY

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

i) It should be noted that the provisions of this paragraph do not app

DDO employees wto wish to study of teach privately. Approsal t

such activity will be obtained in accordance with the prunisions of

2 INDIVIDUAL, CHANGES OF STATUS OR CATEGORY

When an individual undergoes a change of status which places him in one of

the restricted categories described above, or transters him from one category

to another, his operational use or continued operational use is contingent upon

approval or reapproval as prescribed for his new status.

1Q INTERPRETATION OR MODIFICATIOY OF RESTRICTIONS

be price of disclosure, including careful considerativn of the sensitivities o

be individuals involved. then there is any doubt concerning the applicatios

for Operations.

William E. Nelson

Deputy Director for Operations

14

SECRET

D

D

T. - 4664

---

