# 104-10215-10215

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10215-10215

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Hrs. Argentina C. Crozier

A-11 937 507

Admitted to the US. 88 an imigrants March 12, 1960

Types 0-1

Ports

SNA (San Ontónio, Tex.)

Date of Birth: March 15, 1915

Received FOREIGN

ADDRESS AND OCCUPATIOF INDEX CARD (Budget Bureau So. 43-R390)

and

Dept of Justice ID card Form No. 1-151 - thru my bome address at longmont

Colorado about susan 12 April 1960.

Index Card filled and mailed on 19 April 1960.

801-168881

---

## Page 2

14-00000

presson tara

RECIBO POR DINERO

Nº 050

• 31 de January de 19-

RECIBI de Cash

la suma de Seven hundred fifty and no 100 colones

por -

Services rendered, month of lanuary

750.00

Ques 1. Cassion

tn.Brz000262000702144

2?-14

27-14

-are percent comics"

27-14

27-1+

21-68

501 - 168881

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Соволмеомі! оооосі сії

. 259499 Untrereal

RECIBO POR DINERO

009

3.0. de ... ADr1l

RECIBI de ...Cash

la suma de ...El ght hundred colones 00/100

por

- Services renderede 16-30 Apr11

•- de 195..53

800-00

- то о т

201.168851

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Eaiat

BIOGRAPHICALS

Consuelo Felicia CORDERO Calderon

from

Place

1 Jan 57

20 Hay 57 San Joso, C.R.

20 May

1 July 57 Mavana, Cuba

2 July

13 April 58 San Jose, C.R.

14 Apx 58 July 58

160 Main St.

Quincy 69, base.

July 58

27 Deo 58 Mar 59

27 Dec 58

Mexico City

employment

kanicurist

Salon BORDALLO

Unemployed.

Salon BORDALLO

Unemployed.

EmoloyeE

Juan BORDALLO

Address

62 entre Av 3 - 5

Juan BORDALLO

62 entro Av 3 - 5

Salon Hoderno

EsDeranza HERRERA

Ôbrêbon Ro 174

1iar 59

17 Mar 60

180 Main St.

Unemployed.

Quincy 69, Mase.

550 Riverside Dr. Student at Hilfred Acadeny - 1657 Brosdway 51gt

New York 27, N.Y.

21 Mar 60

to date

226 Burgess Ave

Alcxandria, Va.

also enployed at Glanour Gut, 353 E. 204,St.,

Bronx, N.Y.

81s0 employed at Ciro's Colfiurg, Lexinston Av

918: and 92nd.

also employedi at Jacques Beauty Salon, Ino.

160 Hest 55th Street, 5.?.

Ten orarily unemploged.

HaileA. Npeuy

DATAS WERE TAKEN

FIOM PAST dONT TRHUEi

200-148881

---

## Page 5

14-00000

RECIBO POR DINERO

•for citin

Nº 069

_30 de June

_ de 19.49

RECIBI de -

Cash

la suma de four hundred and no/100 oclones

por services rendered, montk of i un

1400, 00

Por sa Purier

27-19 - 1

27-14-73

22-19-16

27-14-78

17-79-4

27-17-2

22-19-1

FILE IN 201--

16888/

---

## Page 6

14-00000

'7.

ROSS L CROZIER

BepTesentatiTe

572 PIIILITT

I FEAT UNTO LITE BLOO

DALLAS, TILLS

See Subzeel's Cover file

in Queaten; folder.

201-168881

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

Security Information

FERRA-DUM TOS PIANS

WED

SUBJECT:

Project HMABOID

Project HUMANOID Is the nost inportast singie project of the san Jose

Station, ani the basio for ail existing and coateuplates OS0 activities

1n the area.

It 1s reuested that the restrictions imposed uros project

HU!'ANOID, as contained in IRS-i-655, copy attachod, be lifteù at thia time,

and the Chief of Station be authorized to direct the activities of JUaNOn

into tbe follouina channels.

Direct and close supervision of IUNAHOID-3, the Station'8.

penotration of the Vanjuardia Popala", Casta Rican Commist Party,

In order to utilise fully the agente potentialities.

HUMANOID - 3

Is Intolligent, has a vido knowledie of Commulat sotivitios, pleas

and personalities and 18 desirous of cooperatin; to the crtent ci his

ability. After a thorough de-briefing of JU ATOI-3 by HUMANOID,

In order to as waist hin, BU'AHOD-3 vich the Station's specific

interests and requirements, plus tha subsequent close supervision vaich

Vill be exercised by SUAHOID, and the continuing close rupervinion of

HANOID - 3 bY HUMANOID, It 18 felt that the station will then bo in

a position to provide intensive and ada vate coverage al sha objectives

asBlined.to 1t in the San Jose SOI.

(D). DIrect and ClOse SupErViSiOn Of HUNAHOID-4, the Stetica's

netration al the doven's fronts affiliated vith. the Venitardia

Populer.

It is felt that the forter cut-out lucKlacle, who handled

H'ANOID unt11 1 June 1949, was sosevhat inept in his operational

dealinis, valch possibly nay account for viat seera to be a lack of

productivity in tbe BUNAHOD 4 project. HUHANCID-4 bEs an intinate

relationahip vith active CP DanDers 11 Costa Rica, both on a 101 and

blah leval, and possesses a definito potential for both indepeniont

reporting, and for spottils a llkaly individual to be used as a

parallel to the HU AHOID-3 project.

HYAKOW, tho vill sow handle

HUNANOIL, 10 capable ol directing thie agents efforto into tbe

proper chamele, and capitalizing fully cai the talents possessed by

the individual.

It Is folt that this is another instance thereby

BUFAHOID, by vorkind closely and directly vith the 1a11riduai saa =be

a substantial contribution to the efforto of the san Jose Station.

(e) Direct and close supervision of ENAROID-l and BUMANOID-?,

the sall Intercept operations presently coverin; the Ceneral Past

Office In San Jose. Iho Infornation that HUNATON-l has accesa to

1s importent end 18 al documentary rellability, His position 18

important to the operational structuge of the statica, unANCIe-a 1a

SEUALT

201-168881

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Security fore

a very satisfactory type of dient. He diaplaya a certain arount

of initiative in voluntarily po-formini tasks not specifically

reuestes by the Chief of Statlas throuch the cut-out auranoId.

HUNANOII-2 has deconstratod the juailtiea of villineness, discretion,.

and cooperat: on.

(a) As to the principal sent of Project HUMANOID, the

followins observations ere subaitted, which vill indicate

umintaicably the value of this project, end its contribution

to tha successoul activities of tho San Jose Station.

Evalustion of sorvicea - ls the principal @ent

and stetion cut-out, HUANOID 1s cherged with the direction

And ETIdEnce of EUVAIOID-1; IUYAHOID-2; EUHAROID-3;

HUMAHOLD.

His handling of these agents is carried out in

a professional and efficiont ennner, and his personal consente

and corrections on thali reporte, based on hie long acqualatance

with local parimalitica and conditions, are of considerable

valua. Els attitude renaina enthusiastic and villine.

Evaluation of informtion - The Inforestion produced

by the duenta being handled by HUANOID 1s of great value

to the station. In addition to his on production, this

agento operations aro vall sultad to checking on infarmation

receivad fran otber sources.

CONNaiLS - Deapite the fact that AUWANOID has bech vorking under

certain operational restrictions for a nuber of sontha, his value to the

station continues to be of major importance. In additlan to the tangible

and sensureBble infarsation produced by and through bis, EUlAFOID bas

provod to be tbe single sost valuable source of background and orientation

data for the Chief of Station, His knovlodge of the history of Costa

Rican commist activitleß and personalitles, and hia casp ol the varlova

revolutionary novements and fljures has been freely sbared vith the

Chies ol Station. These "briefing seetings" represent an incanzible

contribution to the orer-all performance of the Stetion, HUMANOID 18

eager to expand his operationa and upon the removal of present operational

restrictions it i1n ballered that be can be given further responsibilitico,

particularly 1n the rocruitini al adiltional sub-ajento..

The station is

presently interosted 11 accosplishini a parallel penetration of tba.

Commist Pa-ty ol Costs Rica, in expanding routine investigative coverazo

and 11 developing additional sourcea on political movemento.

It 18

bolieved that HUNANOID can insure the success of these ney ventures.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

106F

OISTA MCR -

do

Aanaoh)

-Ao Idoatifysny detas-

Matlonalitys VeSa altisan, bocsa 22 Juna 1922.

Etuaa8Lon8

iulra srhoal ind attaniine oilogo in Coses lilor

Oscupailans Jorecast in VoSo Mr joreo durin vordd ilts II,

ad an agoct of the l'anmn ststion ustll encly 2049

Beftal statuas 170100

Tino dontad to our torlis Ampracinataly 40:

(1) Hlor oontrotods By Chlos of Stition

Bo

Tenestloon niteieste luste terankend d send 3, oo

"os atukrwmes.

20

Bodest10ns

(e) Dororlition o1 Inio produscds Caruniet pesstartion ol L0bos

Erouns and stuiant proipo.

(o) statietios on roparta riocávod mù dioserdratieds

July thau lescbor

3 receivad

3 CLETEOA

(o) Bendquartero eraluation of into sovaivuate sa

Coãù of Projocüt 809005 pas sontio 11) shoru fallariny paynanta

Juty

$34612

Ootober

858.39

Rugus't

Sep taiuber

340148

Hovenbes

510 03

34047

Deceuber

57.03

to hcdrintention ly hozdquerters:

(A) Oparatiional elemanca yrantodo

(b) Aszotaonit ahoot up to dato.

Sa ORArAI EVAluEtioE,

Huannold ls considarod an exsallent egent la nll respacto, Mo vaiva 1e

mão then porantureto tlth las salary.

SEGRET

201-16888I

in.? 2

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONIA IRE

PANT IN - UPERATIONAL INFORMATION

_PRQ

INSTROCI SONS TO CASE OFFICER:

..:

1. 1810081610.

subjoct

should 81l1 in Pared of PRO

In dis con hand.

2 Pa001!!

Pare 8l or

PRO

18

subject.

In by

Case Offlcer

and is not to be

3.

Headquarters

- 101

ROY00801e

to all

questlons on pagol of P.

are 11180981 80121, and to all

questions of

(880883580301.

In emergency

1l, may do cabled

keyed to 1100514012

by number,

and outh

suanary of Part

aquarters, dolloned prooptly oy pouch alth cooplato date.

Fully complerod PRO aust le sont to Mendquartors de soon as possible, loo coples ol

sport! lincluding copy

In subjoce' a handariting, l9 passiolal and one copy of pare il.

O: Dace acquirod later muat do sone to Meadquariora ln PRO formed on a continuing boals.

do all pages of both

IDI PRO Pel nUmber

→¡ll Dear the PRO number, comporod of lal Station ayabol

Id consecutivaly ly the

fleld statlon; @ goPGAIPRO/10.

.i....

36. Cryptonyn _

Arthur G. VAIVADA

37. How, when and where was subject first contacted or developed?

Subject was first recruited in Panasa as HYDROPATHIC In November 1948

and transferred to Costa Rica in approved HUANOID project. Subse-

quently was transferred to BIRADIAL project, PBSÜCCESS and in 1954 to

ANPHODARCH project (Cuba) with which he is currently identified.

:38.

Could subjoct be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to

Bonsone else for handling? les

To whom? Record over the

past nine years shows that subject has easily been turned over to

different projects and case officers.

39.

Boot estimato of subjoct's notivation

Subject is motivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to:

advance in the organization as a career, its remuneration and as loyal

U.S. citizen.

tribad no adas ride mock doctober trade delat

Disober a canidad

suiterara

winderatel

accordin good

•X0376

7

SOURET

n1oss sto

201-168881

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

APROL

40. With what agencies and files has subject's name been checked? When?

Result? What else has been done to verify biographical Information

furnishod by subjoct?

Checked upon recruitment in Panama in 1949 and sutsequently upon

transfer to other projects.

41. What control exista over subject at present? How can it ba Increased?

•Subject is controlled through dependence on salary, loyalty because of

'American berliage, past Army and Agency service, and a dosire for a

career in intelligence work.

42." For what service does he think he le working? What does he think

becomes of hia information?

Subject is cognizant of the identity of this organization.

43. - Explain fally subject's past of present connection with any

Intolligence service.

Subject prevlously InU. S. Aruy and Air force Intelligence.

Belong

106187:

:5.2*

Cecile o?

ät: Pardond cut este sanei

Those bad factors todd coold 1ra5.002k dred

ht:: What type of Inforuation has subject furnished? What type 1s he

beat qualified by education and experienco to furnish? Give.

evaluation of inforuation received.

Subject bas furnished Informatios received on sut azents on Corminist

and revolutionery activities throughout the Central American-Caribbean

ares. Is rov P/A in Cuban project with those primary objectives.

Work to date has been outstanding. Has been particularly valuable in

development and recruitment of new agents.

=8-

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

_/PROL

45. If subject's dutios are to be other than intelligence gathering,

esplain.

Only those functions (Adrinistrative-Operatioral) normally exercised

by P/A.

46.

Has he been given special training as an agent; Explain.

U. S. Aruy Intelligence Training and Ageney covert training fron

5 October through 25 lovenber 1953. Additional covert training at

Headquarters planned for April-May 1957.

l...

e that toT

:: •

47. How and from whom does he obtain Information?

From indigenous student--youth elesents, sith whon he maintains

contact and who in turn have entree to Gucan Cormunist and revolu

tionary circles.

48.

Is 16 proposed to pay subjoct a regular salary? Il so, anount por

week, month, etc. Explain any other methods of payuent, such aB

exchango. commod1tle8.

Subject is to receive $6,390 amually, plus allovances, with provisions

i: for normal step increases, and promotion when justified.

^ 50611 79121

49. Have any promises or commitzente whatsoever (not covered elseshore

1n this form) been made to subject? Explato.

Ho.

•3:

50. Are subject's language abilities and other characterletice such

that he could pass as a native of a country or region other than his

04m? Explain.

Has netire fliency in language and would at least pass as long-time

resident and possibly even setional of certain Central American-

Canibbean countries, although bas obviously föreign physical

, characteristics.

= 9 .

---

## Page 13

14-00000

-SECRET

51.

What le subject's social standing? Aristocracy, upper «iddle clas,

lover middlo cless, peasantry, otc.?

Upper Kiddle Class

52. What are subject's personal habite? Liquor, druga, gambling, mistresses

or lovers?

Believed to be normal in all respects.

d.10."

53. Evaluation of subject's character, rellability, socirlty.

All noted excellent.

t:::

FAltura!

Port!

.i.! i..:

54..

With what other foreign power would subject be most likely to

collaborate because of hie 1doo1o8y, obligation, otc.? Explain.

NoDe

encherten

55.

What speolal abilitles, talente, or quallfications aro posBos8ed by

sub foct which would concolvably be of value for other operations in

•.':.".....

the future?

Subject can send and receite Morse Code.

36. Attach samples of subjoct's signature and handuriting in all languegee

knom to him, aleo a recont, dated photograph, and Pingerprinte:

Previously submitted.

T6-2001 82 GG67 G006 10 Dnт C12 0076 12 50001 30327 420

Lesiana agio pede do dr cancela pediatao cosefica

0291701297432200

•10 -

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-011100

SECRET

PReL

57. How was information in Part I obtained?

Fron Subject personally.

58. Other miscellaneous operational date and commenta.

Outstanding record led first to recommendation that subject be

converted to staff status; following which it was determined that &

career agent designation would be more appropriate in his case.

CaBO Off100I

• 11 -

SECRS

---

## Page 15

14-00000

BIRATE EGRETCH - ROSS 1. CROZIER

Ross L. CROZIER was born on 20 June 1922 in De Kalb, Illinois and is the

eldest of five children of a regpectable siddle-class fanily.

His parents and his

two brothers and tro sisters nor reside in Sterling, Illinois.

Crozier received

his primary and hipt school education in de lalb and entered the U.S. Army in

1940, later transferring to the irty Air Corps.

He served as an operations ard

intellizence specialist, first in the Chira-Indiâ-Burma Theatre and liter in

Panana.. Crozier ras discharged fron the service in august 1945, leaving nich

the grade of Technical Sergeart.

After his iischarze, Crozier worked about

three nonths as a laboratory techniciar. in the Sterling (Illinois) Silica-el

Corporation and then roturned to the Canal Zone to marry Argentina CONDO C.;

a Costa Rican mirl in December 1945.

He then worked about four months

as a stovedore, and labor foreman in the Canal Zone. In April 19Ló he

re-enlisted

in the Air Force ir the Canal Zore, frog which he was discharged

three years later in 1949 at his previous grade

of Technical Sergeant.

became an Agency contract agent on 1 June 1349.

He was origirally

scheduled to be used in Parama but was assirred to the HUANOID Project in Costa

Rice instead. While there he successfully handled a high level penetration of the

Costa Rican Communist Party.

In 1953 he was sent to Feadquarters for traini:g,

and in 1954 he was assigned to PasCCEsS. for a brief pariod.

In July 1954

he signed a new centract in Washington whereby he became the new principal

SECRET

501-168881

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

agent of Project AMPHODARCH. He is under student cover and is actually

working for his BA degree at the University of Habana, for which he has

apprixinately 1 sore year of acadenic work to complete.

?

Crozier has a healthy appearance and appears to be about 25) instead

=? 32 years of age.

He is athletically inclined and has been, and is at

present, interested in organizirg and participating in intra-mural

athletics.

He is happily married and the father of two children.

He

possesses a great deal of integrity, honesty, intelligence, and

resourcefulness.

His chief hobby, aside fron sports, is photography.

He

has tade quite a study of picture-taking and has developed a portrait

photo technique stich he has found useful in his work and as an aid to

obtaining ertra spending money while going to school. The Chief of Habana

Mission and ID have a strong feeling that this nan will perfor his duties

in a superior annier and will nabe HPHODARCH a valuable and worthwhile

project.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SUBJECT

SECRET

(Then Pilled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCESSED

CROSS REFERRIO TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

SOURCE CRYPTONYM

DATE OF INTO.

DISSENIMATED IN

DATE

/ DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

ITRAMSFERRED TO

FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

DATE

EVALUATIGA

THERE IS A EESTRICRED GI/CA FOLDER ON THE SUE:

G7 TE:S 201 15 62 0 25 5007

FILE THIS FORM iN FILE NO.

2011168881

оди но. 867 .

• иду 96

SECRET

17 - 888

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET-

I(wneh-r1rle0-191---

RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

d Ф'APR 1960

IE-PURCH

ACTION

FROM

RID

LoPEn

JAMEMD

IJaose-

120

noon nl e/L

TELEPHONE

18544

IASTRUCT!ONS:

Poro muat be eyped ar prlotad lo

block

SECTION 1:

Lise Dl sumber.

ead idrarifyine

(includiná naides peso.

applicable). auat

identifyind.date

rate-do65-8088- b0-0880.

-DriRO UETÃDO lor Tredo yÓo dro Gaablò

Coror01o.

SECTION 11:

Lise crypronya os paoodoaro.

if asoldned.

sad cosplera

frue nage is sensitive, obtein

20 1 neaber

and caxplera.

701 Coa-a

SECTIOH 111: To do complored in

alf

SENSITIVE

208 м0.

NOH- SENSITIVE

"ER'OZIER","

TYPE

LAME ?.

SECTION 1

168881

Ross

SOURCE DOCUMENT

Liddis

ESTEK

NAME VARIANT

(Tirlo)

(Pirse)

(Niddio).

(Tille)

CORY

SCUPATIONIPOSITION

GRYPTONYN

RECO

SA TIINOTS

SECTION 11

PSEUDONYM

OTHER. DONTIFICATION

OCCIPOS: CODE

SECTION 100

= 50

C1T: USA 850

18.

V2NO COUNTRY INTEREST 12

SAD COUNTRY INTEREST

PERMANENT CHARGE

но. 831

USE PREVIOUS

-ROITIONS.

RESTRICTEO FILE

SIGNATULD

oviua

(S COPY

201-1/888/

dl llpee

SECRET

.*CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 19

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

(When, folled in)

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

OLATE

RE-PUNCHI

то

RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FROM

ПЕЕГНОВО.

INSTRUCTIONS: Form must-he-lyped or printed in black trivera

SECTION 1:

applicable) must be lister.

list 301 nuber, name and idenulving daia in the spares provided All known alizes and variant (including maices nase, il

air unable lu complere.

If the identifying dala varies mith lie alias used, a parale form muss be used.

SECTION I: List rapronym or pseudonym, if assigned.

Sortion 1 and Secuon 1ll.

On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Sectioo ll and Section All.

SECTION Ills To le compired in all cases.

Strur name is sensitiir, nbeain 201 number from 201 Contrul Dest and cosir

ubmit rach form trueralety

SECTIONI

ПОМІНУАТИХ

201 NO.

SOURCE DOCUMEN

NAALE

(Titto)

MAN 2.

(Titter)

205

(First)

MALAI VARIANT

RECORD

ФУРТОНТА

SECTION "I

MOE GE HUNDLE RI

VIVE TIGERIES

SECOND COUNTRY ENTEREST

THIRD COUNTRY INTEREST

COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE

ACRON DES

CIT: 1154.

201 - 32723

closed

3.May 5?

PERMANENT OMARGE

Tas

106296

Ma 831 Una provicors of som

RESTRICTED FEE

VERIFTED

CS COPP UNCHED

201-

SAGMATUTE

SECP.ET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 20

14-00000

-CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

(when Filled in)

RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FERSONALITY (201 j FILE REQUEST

¡ DATE

-13 Moy 1957

ACTION

AMIND

Laose

FROM

RI/CO Amella SuperfiBky

тоом по.

2301 L

TELEPHONE

3127

INSTRUCTIONS: Form muse he riped or pribied in turk tellers.

SECTION t Liu 201 numter, name and identifing dala in the spaces poor inkeet.

All linonin aliases and variants (including maiden name, il

applicable) musi in listed.

If the identifying data varits with the aliz used, a sparate form muss for used

Wrile UNKNOwi for items you

are unabir lo complete.

SECTION Is Lisi crypemym or pseudonym. if assigned. If irue name is sensitive, oldain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and complete

Sortion I and Section 1ll.

On a separate furm: enter the 301 number and compire Section Il and Stion II!. Submit each form separately.

SECTION It: To he compiced in all cases

SECTION I

Maarina

HOMSHETT

NAME

201 NO.

SOURCE DOCUMENT

168881

(Lord)

CROZIER

(Fint)

ROBa

(Micals)

(Titto)

MAHY VARIANT

(Last)

(Firsty

(Title)

SURTH DATE

3. Y COUNTIN OF BURTH

001|-61|.22

USA

OCOUPATION / POSITION

CANTONTA

COLANTAY OF RESIDENCE

COMMENTS:

1о.

.

OTY OR TOWN Of MATH.

I111nO18

VOCC, POS. CODE

SECTION II

rs000 Arthur G. VAIVADA

SECTION 1!I

11. I SECOND COUNTRY INTEREST

12.

THIRD COUNTRY INTEREST

ACTION DESX

va/ITI/cabe

wi/3C4

120.

80x.10

PERMANENT OMARCE

тив

831 los anious actiona

201-

16858/

RESTRICTED FRE

AGNATURE

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

Anella Superfisky

PUNCHED

(78)

---

## Page 21

OZIERAKOSS I

201- 16888

SECRET

Vol I.f V

OFFICIAL CS FILE

(Undatd - Dec, 51)

FORM

9.88

15058

SECRET

---

## Page 22

14-00000

CONPEDENTIAL

SECRET

-(When-Filled In)

3 Fil- 25

(date)

Revlev of 2.11 File on U.S. Citizen_

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed

the 201 file on

CROZIER

(surname) (201 number indicated below),

and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies,

affix Records Officer stasp.)

Unwitting collaborator. Ol Code A7.

Explanation:

L.

Witting collaborator. •Ol Code Al.

Potential uitting collaborator; date opened:_

OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).

OI Code A3.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.

Counterintelligence case (1.e., Involving a foreign intelligence or

security service). Of Code AS.

All others.

OI Code Ab.

7

This assignment of category Has been entered into

Go Gret tap/4

signed

NR

(1n1t1als)

127et 25

(date)

This document 1s a permanent part of this file.

201-

168881

CONTI DENTLAL

SECRET

(When Filled In)

• E2 IMPDET CL BY 061475

---

## Page 23

14-00000

once cemenuses

ч00

0

ace

рA28

00

•0

SECRET

DISSEM BY:/ 3

--D--00a0es-..

•LIMA, QUITO, GUAYAQUIL, SANTIAGO, BUENOS AIRES- MEXICO CITY

INFO PANTECH, DIRTECH, BANGTECH, TOKYTECH. Y

TAPPER/CO STARPOYO TECHS Y

REF: DIRECTOR 618825 (BEING RELAYED MEXICO CITYS IE1 Y

J. IN REFINEMENT OF REF REQUIREMENT-QUERY-WHETHER ADDRESSIES

HAVE AN ASSET UHO IS ETHNIC CHINESE WITH LATIN AMERICA ORDINARY

PASSPORT WHO CÓUID APPLY FOR A PRE TOURIST VISA. IF YES, PLÉASE

HAVE ASSET CONTACT PRC EMBASSY AND ASK IF THEY WOULD ISSUE TOURIST

VISA AND HOW LUNG IT WOULD TAKE BEFORE ASSET COULD OBTAIN VISA. Y

2. WE ABE TRYING TO DETERMINE WHETHER PRE EMBASSY WILL ISSUE

VISA FOR TOURIST PURPOSES TO SINGLETON TRAVELERS OF ETHNIC CHINESE

ORIGIN WHO ARE NATIVE OR NATURALIZED LA CITIZENS WHO HAVE NO RELA-.

TIVES IN CHINA. Y .

3. IF PER ABOVE AN APPROPRIATE ASSET CAN BE IDENTIFIED, WE B

WOULD CONSIDER REQUESTING STATION CONCERNED TO LAUNCH HIM ON A SIMPLE,

OPS SUPPORT MISSION TO PRC: I.E., TO COLLECT INFO ON PRE DOCUMEN-

TATION CONTROL BASED ON SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS TO THE ASSET DEFORE

LAUNCH. Y

DATE: 29TJANUARY 75

ORIG:

JACK KOJIÑOTO/YET

UNIT:

CHAOCEA

EXT: ..

1730

1N1,

сооколятто опыснаь

103/2/21

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

S PROMIBIFED

SECRET

AN POE:

CL SY:

035306

---

## Page 24

14-00000

27455-7

OUTGOING MESSAGE

MONAL CINERUSRONY

con

•ток-

-00=

10bo

PAOLE

eMpe

ECLASSY

CONF: _

anto rose arous

IMFO: FILE

cre

DIRECTOR

650063

4. PLEASE ADVISE BY 14 FEBRUARY. EZ, IMPDET N

MITA

RETURETO

- 100

DISSEL BYS

PER

*REQUEST ADDRESSEE STATIONS NOTIFY HAS IN ADVANCE

OF ANY UPCOMING

TRIPS TO THE PRE BY ITS OVERSEAS CHINESE ASSETS-

COORD:

OTS/AB - THOMAS KLINE EDRAFTY

ACILAIM -R. U. STONE CDRAFTY

DC/LAINW -J

HENNESSY DRAFTE

[FOR}

CALAISB-

DCEAICH

ITREDGE (DRAFTY

Cule

LA/TES-Litta Stepan

DATE:

ORIGE

UNITS

EXT:

tenedianes

assame

HEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSULAG OFFICE IS FROMBITEO

ACESS

CEA

# 51455441990

E 2

14.02

---

## Page 25

14-00000

---

Dale: 1 24270

Cretive Tierefilming

TRSA 347

20 22ay 19

201-162221

---

## Page 26

14-00000

224929-

TZPW 411.

TRSW 225

tRSA 925

TRSW 643

IRSA 924

TZPA 365/01

SENT

TO RID/AN

22 Dec 20

8 jan 4.9

27 Nee 48

1/ May 5!

28. May 51.

10 july 31.

4 7L0N 48

201-168881

..A.L

---

## Page 27

14-00000

-SECURITY-INFORMATIONE

69 г

-ATR

DEG 7 1551

Chlot of stacles, Jer JOes

reting calos, VI

RIF 38

Fandruarters filoe have tont boon adairaly enguaniod tipent the

recoint of sorerorea do, wiish to ssy "ho leart, sundo considereble, mba

manded Irit as enla mesation.

Tie ses as set telenko aleriflostion di

¿astra to hete Hurasom nigh a tou centrati.

I: se poppasted la thio regari

that joo innie da soon de masible er prarialenn ulch you visa ta stacmast

son irelanion in the contreet.

furnity uila sea. ?1o? d the tenunciona covarting enucet ures, noi

BErter arents.

It sauld ta nor nimartesarus to sub-lt suca a contract for

Che ent of Telsassa 1952.

30

Molative do your meation in raTagreph à ol Miera00 Di, re 829

present tina, TRaiNEs la tha crement impoved version of tha extent el

It so firaty bellevad last thers testan

Blons u111 to razored den, in tetrary 1752, this merition uill he emsidoro

803 rensenl by the start which tarosed the curtallmet.

It 10 urge! that 10:

your cuerterly torion sor tha restod onding 31 Secesher 1951 you rive lead

quartera the bonofit of ennihos snealtio detalied renort.

17 thet 1190, 000

W1, M. WERELTP., JR.

By J. G. Bornet

ACHT:

SCBrob

5 Doconbar 1951

SEGRET

Ro NO PASTETTER

1 De. 51

201-168881

---

## Page 28

14-00000

in

pita

SECURITS INFORMATION DISPATCH NO...

SECREA

=QASSIFICATION-=

TR3A-1084

DATE: 19 Fovember 1951

•FROM : Chief of Station, San José

-SUBJECT: GENERA= Operational

SPECIFIC-

HUMANOID Project

Ref:

TRSW-685, TESA-1056, WASH 24671

1. TRSH-685, which advises that the expiration date of

this-project-has-been-determined-to be 29 February 1952, was

received

several days alter the forwarding o1 TRSA-1056, which

recommended

that subject te considcred for career agent stutus.

Al-

though TRSA-1056 furnished certain of the data requested by head-

quarter forth with a view so facilitating a final evaluation of the

the following additional informatinn, queries and comments

project.

pursuant to the approval contained in TRSW-655,

dated June 29,

1951, HUMABOID has been and is currently acting as

cutout for HUMANIST-2

as vell as for HUMANKIND-d and HUMANKIND-3•

It is therefore not clear whether paragraph 2.b. of TRSA-685 is to be

interpreted

as a new restriction on his activities which is to be placed

Into effect

at this time.

In other words, is headquarters' approval

of the suggestions contained in TRSA-950 now withdrawn?

As discussed In TRSA-950, assistance was extended

HUMANOID in setting up a photography and photocopy shop on the fringe

of the downton area.

Funds formerly used for rental of a safehouse

were applied instead

as rental for his photo shop, with the purpose

of providing a sare meeting place between HUMANOID and HUZLAWIST-2 and

so provide a nore accessible spot for the processing of HUMANKIND

material.

Farly in July 1951, after two or three weeks experience

with photostating HU!ANKI'D material at the studio demonstrated the

unsuitability of the arrangement, HUMANOID resuned his plotostatic

work in his own hore.

Tre studio has continued to serve as a meeting

place for HUMAMIST-2. fre following considerations entered Into the

decision to discontinue processing HUMANKIND-l and 3 material at the

photo studio: 1): The conspicuous nature of the equipment in a suall

shop; 2) the security risks caused by the presence in the studio of

HUMANOID's local employee; and 3) the lack of any secure storage

space for comprosising naterial

101-165881

4.

since the dispatch of TRsA-105o,

HUMANOID has been

notified by his photographic ascistant that the latter 1s resignin

KAR 1989 51-28 A

SECK:

CLASSIFICATION

tori

IRSA

1c84

19NÖK51

15-77

---

## Page 29

14-00000

Рада 2

•ЕССКТ 1Р0R84i6 i:

SAUMEA

TRSA-1084

to geek nore remunerative emploment at the end of this month.

-HUMANOID-states that he is unable to devote surricient tine to the

business to-keep. it going without an_assistant-and-that it wouid be

quite difficult-to-locate a competent torinan at the salary level he

can afford to pay. The above facts, plus unfavorable findings of a

recent financial analysis of his business, have convinced HUMANOID.

to close the photoprapt sLop at the end of Novelter.

In connection with pararraph 2.d. of TliSW-685, wrich

states that HUMANOID nust discontinue using his home to reproduce

the material obtuined fro: HU.ATYIND-l and HWWaNKINE-3

the following

brief history of safehouse experience at this station is set forth.

A revier of the files and discussion vith lUNArOiD reveals that, seven

safehouses have been utilized to date:

ao An-office room in the Panana Company building In San

José fros June, 1959, bandoned wen it was learned the

to forenher, 1949, used to process

HURATKIND Laterial.

roon bas called the "FRI office upstairg" by other resi

dents of the building.

bo

An apartment in Bella Vista fron Hovember, 1949,

January, 1950, used to process HUANKIND naterial.

Abandoned because landlord lived next door and useu

contion entrance.

One-half of a house in san Pedro, which had private

entrance.

Abandoned because the notorious Frank kARSHALL

was neigtoor.

MARS:ALL is enemy of the Concunist Party

and knew HUMANIST-? by sight.

d.

An apartuent in Parque l'orazán.

After two months this

was abindoned as reiplibors began raking inquiries con-

cerning infrequency of risits to the house.

8o

Apartment in Barrio Lujän, for four sonths.

This was

abandoned as sany Party nesberg lived nearby and knew

HUHANIST-2 by sight.

So. A house near the Sabana airport for seven nonths, used

to process HUMANKIYD material.

Frequent vocancy

of. the

presises caused speculation by neighbors and landlord.

Photographic studio. as discussed above. In addition to

stated re: sons for closing above safehouses, two house

breakings were suffered, and it was frequently feared

that the reproduction equipaent might be stolen then 1t

becene apparent that persons were seldom in the houses.

i prise

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SECURITY LEOPARTI!

Page 3

SECRET

TRSA -1084

6. In view of hendruarters intention to terminate this

project, -It-1s not deened advisable at this time to install-HUMANeID

In-a new safehouse to process HURAWKIND. raterial.

Accordingly,

heauquarters aivice is requested as to whetrer lUlANOID may continue

using his house for the next few contlis, or whether this operation

should be suspended immediately, irasmuch as no Buitable alternäte

cutout lias been located to date.

In reply to your request for corcent on the salary

increasa for HUMANOID recomnended by the forer. Chief of Stition,

please be advised that the writer concurs in the reconmendation.

Indicaten in TRSA-1056 end. TASA-999,

As

this arent has been living on a

very close finencial marpin and has been awere of the l'ecom.ended

raise for sone montlis.

It is conceivable that _he_ has-taken-the-raise-

possibiiity inin consideration in his personal financial arrangements.

In ary event, should headruarters cecide to centinate subject, it is

recourended that several months salm te aurorized as & terination

bonus 1n order that there will he no likelihood of security consider-

ations erisine fron subject's possibiy over-extencra financial position.

This bonus payment is belleved justified by subject's lon? tenure of

service.

" with regard to pararraph 3 of Tiss-des, there have

seen no changes in subject's cover and current =odes 01: contict and

communication fron those set out in TRSA-95J.

ICKANIST-2. makes a

weekly door-slot drop at night at the photographic studio, and a live

meetire takes place at the studio approximately three nigits a ronth,

with safety-danger signals beins utiiized.

In addition, MiNANOID

meets once or so a ronth nith HUGrER, either at her home or at the

studio.

H'AWKIND contacts remnin the same.

My contacts with HUMANCID

nave taken place at lis home,

in aark, in a local pension, it my

home, and in coffee hers on

a surezerns scheduie of about once a week.

9. With reference to wAst lo?i, lease be advised that

absolutely no comitments. have been made to subject,

and, on the

contrary, hints have been cropped t: aim of a sissible

curtailment

of funds which right require discontinuing certair operations here.

Ho difficulty 1s articipated in tercinatin subject upon receipt of

final instructions fron headquarters.

with further reference to kASh 14671, your attention

18 respectfully inrited to the following, headquarters files which

reflect opinions and evaluations of subject by other staff personnel:

TZPA-365 Part II "Subject's superiors regard this man as

highly dependable."

T7PA-365 Part I

"Subject's imediate superior is it. Col.

PORTES, Director of Intelligence,

CAIRC, who recomends subject hiphly."

SLORET

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Page 4i

=76.

TRSA - 403

TR5A-589,

SECURITY INFOR

SECONd

TRSA-1084

"Subject-Is considered to be extreuely reliable

and-intelligent,

which,

coubined. with his past

experience,

qualify hin for a wide range of.

assignnents.*

"... services have been of considerable value to

operations.

The Greats which lie handles are the

nost productivo of those now being used by this

station,

and his nanarenent of these informants

has been excellent

from both an information and

security viewpoint."

175A-546

and he feel that

he is erinently enited for wrets or cover employ-

ment in any capacity deened com ensurate with

his intrilectual and other alliftles."

PRSA-860

"...the sorrices of this agent are extrenely

valuable to this station."

TRSA-999

"...the services of this arent continue to bè

extresely virlunble.....

In vien of his iuportance

to this station, his ability and his villagness

to dcrote time to the work when needed,

it is

recorrended that he be considerto for a raise in

[2;...

THSA- 64,1

"...his experience and ability is such that ho

could probably be of use to the orzanization

anyuhere in jatin Merica."

The above file history, plus approximntely three

monta, itservation and circction of lUAluld serveu is the busis for uy

recosmendatiun of career ageni stutus.

12. At the risk of laboring the point, ani: solely on the

basis of Information avallable here, it appears that HUlANCID has pro-

vided valuable service in the past, that he is currently en important

factor in the operational structure of this station, and that he

possesses certain potential for future use by the orrunication.

In

this connection, it is noted that headquarters inquired sone time ago

(195W-641) whether suhject would be interested in workin for the

orpanization in another country. Although it is realized your interest

In this possibility may no longer exist, for your inforcation HUMAHJID

has stated that he would go to any other Latin American country, in

any capacity, on short notice.

The instant dispatch is respectfully subnitted for your

intorration and in response to your queries.

It is to be eiphasized

that headquarters desires with regard to Lodifying or terminating this

project will be followed implicitly.

201-168881

James &. Russo

5 1.71

---

## Page 32

14-00000

OUTROINE CLASHFIES-MESSAGE-

- CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

"SECURE REFORMATI ONE

SAN JOSE

POLICY COORDINATION/

SPECIAL OPERATIONS

To:

FRoM:

CONFIRMATION:

INFORMATION:

PACE No.

ROUTINE

8 NOV 51

OUT 87290

OPS (6%, PLANS (7),

S/C (8-9-10); DĐP.

Paraphrass Nol Hequired. llondle as SECRET Correspondence per leis, 5 (1) 60A AR-380-5

WASH. 14671

TO: SAWJFG

RE: TRSA-1056

CITE: HASHFG

WAKE NO COLITMENTS RE FUTURE STATUS SUBJECT.AT PRESENT

HAVE NO PLANS CONTACT HIM HERE.HGS FILES DO NOT REFLECT BASIS

YOUR ENTHUSIASIS SUBJECT'S USEFULNESS THIS AGENCY. HQS FAVORS

CONTINUING PRESENT STATUS.

TOD:

2351Z & MOV 51

JCB

ORICINATINE AND COORDINATIRE OTICER.

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

201-168851

R.". RASTE TER

AUTHENTICATINE OFFICEE

COrT No.

ano

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

32C

Woe form

2 Novenber 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: ME. RASTETTER AND MR. BONNET

FROMS

Paul P. Paxton

SUBJECT:

HUMAVOID; Career Status

1.

I do not feel that this man's position in the political

and

social life in Costa Rica lends itself to our need for a

career agent in that area. His financial position negates. his

accessibility to high-level information; and our requirements

for Costa Rica should not be satisfied through outright subsidí-

zation of an agent in order to place him in a position of influ

ence.

His wife's knowledge of his work for us is lamentable and

her Costa Rican background with substantial local political ties

should be sufficient reason to belay any further consideration on

our part for increasing his knowledge of our operations. Admit-

tedly, he has performed a satisfactory service for the San jose

station, but his efforts are not so vital that his termination, in

the event he decides to sever connections with us because of his

failure to achieve more pramanent status, would be a permanent blo

to our effectiveness there. • With respect to his knowledge of

future possibilities with us, we cannot be held responsible for

unauthorized commitments that may have been made by the previous

Chief of Station.

2.

The current status of HUMANOID should be established in.

line with TRS - 685.

WH/PPP/Le

2 Novenber 1951

201-168881

SECRE

---

## Page 34

14-00000

ES ROTY AIR OR SLA FOUCH

DISi ATCH NO.

TRSA-1056

TO

Chief, WID

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational

SPECIFIC- Humanoid

Ref:

Field Hemo 218

DATE: 22 October 1951

- Io Serious consideration has been eiven to the

suitability of Hunanoid for career gont status, and in tlis connec-

tion, it is to be noted subject is partially aware of the possibilitles

of career agent status by virtue of a discussion with the former

Chief of Station.:

2.

It appears that Humanoid fills the requirements set

out in reference menorandun, as follows:

a. Humancid.

bo

His existing cover is well established and believed to be

Bur destro one do reta one e

tie has been attending the local university for

over two jears; he built and owns his on hore in Costa Rica;

be is married to a Costa Rican and has two children born here;

and he has a going business in the fors of a photographic

shop wnich pro-ides an excuse for additicnal income.

sor objectives assigned to rumanoid Include supervised

Irection of Comunist Party penetration (Hunanist-?); super-

vised direction of Postal Intercept Project. (Humankind);

direct provision. of information enaneting fron local university

and intellectual circles of which subject is a reuber.

subject fornerly cirected attempted penetration of the Comru-

nist Party women's"front" group (Hugger).

do

It has been noted that subject's efficiency and productivity

have been hampered by financial considerations in the past.

He has had unusually heavy medical bills, and the rising cost

of living in Costa Rica has presented econonic problems in

view of his modest income.

It is felt that subject has

valuable potential for expandine his operations under the status

of career agent. With the recoval. or partial removal or

economic pressure, subject would be able to devote additional

time to the exploitation of numerous personal contacts in

labor, governuent, religious, and political circles. He 1s

201-16T881

TOPY

SELi

201-168881

TOR 1S%: 51-28 A

CLASSIFICATION

7Y

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SECRET ÷

Pago 2

-TRSA-1056

.

-unusually adept at investigative technique has the ability

to bala.ce=risks=involved arainst value of infaration-to

-be-obtained,

and is thorouply famillar with the geopraphy

and political trenda in Costa Rica.

To date, subject has

confined his activities mostly to cutout and

airection;

however, It is believed that rich additional freedom he

could

sucerssfully enrape in spottin?, recruitment, reneral inves

tigation, and independent recorting.

Subject has discussed his desire to send

his wife and tro

children to his family in the United Stites late in October

for a bi day visit:

He wouln then like to travel to che

United States hinself in late Decenher for a sricf visit

alch his parents in Illinois.

This would be his first visit

tore in several years and would rovide an excellent oppor

tunity and cover for heacquarters contact, either in liiinois

or iast:1n,t03,

at wich time forralities and necessary

training could be accorplished. (MOTE:"

This planned trip

of subject lay tenorrarily interrupt contact ith Huranist-2

and Humarkind, as a suitable interin cutout has not yet been

developed; but experience has shown thit procuction irce

both

soirces practically dier

out over the Christnas and New

Year holidays in this country.

In connection vith Parapraph e. above, it is to be

noted that the travel plans of subject's wife hive been complicated

by advice fron the E-bassy Consular Section that the Immigration

authorities at the sort of entry into the United States may cenand a

$500.00 U.S. bond in substantiation of her intent to return to Costa

Rica

after the du days.

This station 1s therefore considering

advancing, subject u.s.

$500.00 in orier to enable hin to present the

bond if it is denanded and to obriate the possibility of nis spending

several hundred sollars in travel money for his wife to a port of

entry und return to costa rica if entry vere denied. This coney

would not be used by subject for any other purpose and would be re-

turned to station funds after successful entry of his wife into the.

United Stetes.

4. In then of the fact that this station has no basis

for comparison with regard to possible salary figures which night be

offered subject is cireer arent status is approved, no recommendation

in this rerard is beine made.

However, it' 1s vointed out that subiact

has worked for the orranization for almost four years, that his

efficiency has been excellent, his rrasp of intellipence requireents

anove average, his potential attractive, and that his present position

in the operational structure of this Station 1s of major indortance.

5.

It is requested that this Stütion be advised if you

are interested in considering subject for cureer agent stitus.

If so, please advise whether contact will be had with subject while

SECA22

---

## Page 36

14-00000

Page 3

SECRET

TRSA - 1056

be 1s in the United States.

-A180,-11-11-the rovernment reimburse

subject for travel

experditures for his trip.

In view of the

relatively ghort time resainine before his trip, it is recuested that-

I be advised as soon as possible of pertinent details, suchas=

ength of tire recutred for training, etc.in order-thit Furanoid=

may-be briefed and in order that interin operational arrangesents

nay be worked out.

ó.

It wouid be appreciated if a reply to the reconnended

salary increase of subject could be race available. (See TRSA-999

of duly 1 and TRSA-1037 cated Seatenher 28, 1951.)

James K. RUSBO

-7.

SEUIET

18-6-3-11

---

## Page 37

14-00000

VIA:

AIr

SHECIFY AIR OR SEA FOUCH)

:DIs.. TCH-NO: =

SACREA

GLASSIFICAFIONE

-TRSA-1037

DATE: 28 September 195h

TO

chief, WHD

-FROM Chief-of-Station, San Lose

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Operational

SPECIFIC-

Hunaroid Project

1. In connection with a re-exarination of the security

factors of this Project, a pre-arränged visit to the home of

Humanoid

was nace by the writer.

As previously reported,

subject

has constructed a secret dark room under the floor of his house.

and processes the production from the Humankind Project it this

work room. It is therefore necessary that certain compro-ising

saterial 1s retained overnight by Humanoid, anu,

at present, this

saterial is kept in a wooden desk with a cheap lock.

Although

breaking, with theft as a motive cannot be overlooked, with resultant

Berlous security considerations.

2. It 1s therefore requested that headquarters

consider furnishing a snall wall safe with & combination lock for

installation in the above-mentioned dark ross.

It would be possible

to sink the safe into the concrete wall, and even if complete con-

cealment were not possible, the safety of the material would be

greatly ent.anced.

Suitable safes are not available locally, but

It isknown that Remington Rand markets a

small strong box with a

combination lock (price about $20.00) which would be ideal.

3. I would appreciate receiving your opinion in this

matter Inasnuch as other measures must be taken in the event a safe

cannot be nade available.

•4.

Inasmuch as Humanoid Is aware of the proposed salary

ralise recommended by the forner Chief of Station in the Quarterly

Report dated Aupust 17, 1951, Inforration as to the status of this

recommendation is requested.

Japes

HOE 150: 51-28 A

COPY

SECAZY

CLASSIFICATION

RUSSO

201-1688711

201-168881

---

## Page 38

14-00000

Air

STROIFY AIR OR SEA PONCHO

¡PATCH NO.

--

TRS." -935

DAn 3L July 1951 -

Chies, "

FROM: Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Operations

SPECIFIC-

Humanoid

Ref:

Memorandum given writer by Zachary I. Cady in Panara

1. Humanoid advised that his mother-in-law,

Sra.

Jora _calderon_ de CORDERO, -has no-relationshin with the family of

corner President Rafael Angel CALDERON Guardia.

Humanoid advised

that his mother-in-law was friendly with the CALDERON family years

ago, but has

had no contact with any of the fanily or the Calderonista

Party since the revolution. This woman immigrated to Costa Rica

as Dora INIKEN from Europe, and as it is custonary for immigrants

and illegitimate chilaren to take upon themselves the name of the

President,

Dora INITEN changed her name to CALDERON.

Humanoid stated

that she

has no political connections whatsoever ana is sympathetic

to whatever administration is in power at the time.

The infornation

in the referenced menorandum was originally written by Hunanoid

three years ago and has no application to the present.

2. Regarding Humanoid's associates, Sr. and Sra..

Miguel CORRALES, Humanoid stated that he has not

seen CORRALES for

over a year since CORRALES is in Guanacaste Province. It is true

that CORRALES was a Figuerista during the revolution, but he is no

longer sympathetic with FIGURES.

3. Humanoid's intelligence activities are known to

his wife, who has been of assistance to him in said activities on

various occasions.

However, Humanoid stated that his mother-in-law.

has no knowledge of these activities.

sugene I. Rodd,

t2 1849

IR COPY

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

31 July 51

201-168881°

18-6-3-70

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET

-16-July 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. THARP:

-SUBJECT: a. -HUMANOID

b. Technical Surveillance in Costa Rica

HUMANOID is an American agent used as a cut-out in several

San Jose operations. He was employed in the technical surveillance on

the home of Juan Bosch, as one of the two monitors. He also handles

the photography incident to the HUMANKIND project, which work be

performs in his own quarters. (This may now be performed away from

his home, but until very recently it was done at home.)

HUMANOID's PHS shows the following points which Dave Wright

may be able to clarify:

(see IZP-A-365, Part I)

1. His wife is related, through her mother, to the family of

CALDERON. This might be a connection with the "Calederonistas" who

are alleged to be the group of Costa Ricans responsible for mysterious

bombings early this year.

2. Subject's mother-in-law, who resides with him, is described

as follows:

"strongly inclined to Sr. Calderon GUARDIA and Leo CORTES

during their respective regimes in Costa Rica, and she is now (Oct 1948)

enthusiastic about the Junta Government of Jose FIGUERES. However,

she takes no active part in politics. "

3. Other friends and associates of his wife are: Sr. and Sra.

Miguel Corrales (San Juan Tibas Costa Rica). Miguel Corrales was a

radio operator and intelligence operative for Jose FIGUERES during the

Costa Rican Civil War in the spring of 1948.

Jose FIGURES and Juan BOSCH were the target personalities

of the technical surveillance. FIGUERES made the statement that "one of

his boys told him all about the surveillance. "

From the above circumstances, it appears possible that HUMANOID's

intelligence activities are probably known to either his wife, his mother-in-

law, or his friend, CORRALES, and that one of the three could have been

the source through which the surveillance was blown. Would you discuss

this informally with Dave Wright, please?

SECRET

J.C. BONNET

201-168151

---

## Page 40

14-00000

VIA:

Air

SPELET AR OR SEA POUON

- DIS

cH NO

GENRET

TRSA -9.72

TO : : Chief, Foreign- Division T

-FROM: Chief of Station, San Jesé

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SpEcIFIC Project Humanoid

Ref:

TRSA-925

DE KAFOR O

Enclosed herewith is Part II - Operational Information -

of the Personal Record Questionnaire for Project Humazoid.

Encl: 1 in dupl

Fugene T. Roddy

per sort 43-22

KiE. 1989 51-28 A

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

Part II - OPERATIONAL INPORMATTON

TRS / PROL 26

ESTRUCTIONS-TO-CASE-OFFICER:-

1. I leasible, sutject should filt in part 1.01 PRO-in-nis-oom-hard.

part 11 of PRO is classified, must de filled in by ine case officer and is nei to

be shown to subject.

Headquarters will not de able to provide an Operational Clearance unless it receives

answers to all questions on page 1 of part 1 (Items 1 10 12), and 80 all questions of

Pars 11 (1tems 36:058).

o. In emergency these answers, keyed to Items 1 to 12 by number, and dith summary of part.

_il,-may-be cabled to Headquarters, collomed prompily by pouch mian complete os:a.

5a Fully completed PRO must be sent to Headquarters as soon as possible, ino copies of

part 1. (including copy in subjectes handariting, it possible) and one copy of part 11.

6 Data acquired later must de sent to Headquarters in PRO format on a continuing basis.

7o All pages of boih paris will dear she PRO number, composed of (al station symel

(D) PRQ (c) number assigned consecutively by the field station; e.g. PGA/PRo/is.

36. Cryptony Humanoid

37. How, when and where was subject first contacted or develoged?

subject was first recruited in Panama as Hydropathic in November 1948

and transferred to San José as approved Humanoid project, July 1949.

38. Could subject be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to

someone else for handling?

To wham?

Subject could be turned over quickly to any approved cutout,

at present he is himself acting as a cutout between Chief of statio

and zosubegerstimate of subject's notivatin

Subject notivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to

advance in the organization as a career, and its remuneration.

DESENSITIZED

EST COd 43-20

SECRET

-7-

---

## Page 42

14-00000

SECRET

TRS /PRA/ 26

- 40. With what ligencies and files has subject's name been checked? When?

-Reault? Wint elae has been done to verify biographical information

furnished by subject?.

Recruited and checked in Panama (see TZPA-365).

41.-What control exists over subject at present? How can it be increesed?

American heritage, past Us. dusy derenden end desire or a caree no

American heritage, past U.S. Army service,

this work--all are controlling factors, as well as his receipt of G.I.

school benefits.

42. For what service does he think he is working? What does he think

becomes of his information?

subject is cognizant of identity of this organization.

43. Explain fully subject's past or present connection with any

intelligence service.

Subject previously in U.S. Army Intelligence (see Part I, PRQ 26,

No. 25)

4t. What type of inforsation has subject furnished? What type 1a be

best qualified by education and experience to furnish? Give

evaluation of information received.

Subject furnishes only information received as a cutout from subagents,

Comuunist Party activities and Caribbean revolutionary matters.

DESENSITIZED

SECRET

-8-

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SECRET

TRS. /PRO/_ 26

45. If subject's duties are to be other than intelligence-gathering.

-explain.

None"

46. Bas he been given special training as an agent? Explain.

U.S. Army Intelligence training.

47. How and fran wham does he obtein Information?

Subject acts as cutout for Humanist-2, Humankind-1, Humankind-3,

and Hugger.

48. Is it proposed to pay subject a regular salary? If 8o, amount per

veel, month, etc. Explain any other methode of payment, such as

exchange coumodities.

Subject receives 4,000 per month (approved TRSW-627)

49. Have any promises or commitments whatsoever (not covered elsevhere

In this form) been made to subject? Explain.

Ro.

..50. Are subject's language abilities and other characteristics such that be

could pass es a native of a country or region other than his own? Bxplain.

No.

DESENSITIZED

51. What 18 subject's social standing? Aristocracy, upper middle class,

: "lover middle class, peasantry, etc.?

Upper middle-clas.

SECRET

-9-

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SECRET

TRS/PRQ/ 26

52. What are subject's personal habita? Liquor, drugs, gambling,

mletresses

or-lovere?=

_Social-drinker, very moderately. No gambling or nistresses.

53. Evaluation of subject's character, reliability, security.

All noted excellent.

54. With what other foreign power would subject be most likely to

collaborate because of his ideology, obligation, etc.? Explain.

None.

55. What special abilities, talents, or quallfications are possessed by

subject which would concelvably be of value for other operations in

the future?

subject knows Morse code and can send and receive ló words per

minute at present, which rate can be quickly increased.

56. Attach samples of subject's signature and handuriting in all languages

known to him, also a recent, dated photograph, and fingerprints.

Photos forwarded with Part I. Handwriting and fingerprints being

pouched separately.

"57. How was Information in Part I obtained?

Subject submitted information personally.

DESPARTIE

SECRET

-10.

---

## Page 45

14-01100

SECRET

TRS /PRO/26

58. Other miscellaneous operational data and comments.

•NOn©•:

SECRET

-11-

Cese officer

DESENSITIZED

per Cal 43-23

---

## Page 46

4-00000

SECRET

TRSA-999

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

CRYPTONIM: Humaroid

COUNTRY: Costa Rica

PFRIOD: 31 March-1 July 1951.

OBJFCTIVES AND TASTS: No change.

SALARY:

Subject was raised from 750 colones per month to

1,000 colones per sonth, effective 1 l'arch 1951.

EVALUATION OF SERVICES:

Services of this agent continue to be extrezely

valuable as the principal cutout for three

subagents.

Subject also processes the

auding to it his own

infornation receive®jong personel acquaintance

comments drawn from

with local concitions.

Subject maintains a

good working relationship with subarents

necessury for their continued trusted and

unkorried cooperation.

EVALUATION OF

INFORMATICN:

The information procured by subject is valuable

though very

litile is ris own, but rather that

of his subagents.

OTHER FACTORS:

Reference 1s made to TRSA950 and TiSW-655

wherein subject's operations, as planned by this

station and approved by headquarters, were set

These operations have continued as

outined sithout incident or danger to the

security of this agent or this station.

- COHMENTS:

Subject is devoting increasingly nore time to

the coverage of mail intercepts, their photo-

stating, end enlarging coverage

of same.

Intellipence consci-usness as well as the trust

he has built up in Humanist-2 in reporting on

top level comunist activities has taken tire

and has produced good results in effective

coverage.

In view of his importance to this

station,

his ability and his willingness to

devote time to the work when needed, it is

reconnended that subject be considered for a

raise in pay from 1,000 colones to 1,500.

subject is living frugally on his present salary

and his G.l: subgistance.

His wife has recently

had another child which was followe by con-

plications necessitäting considerable kospital-

SECRET

July 51

101-168881

---

## Page 47

4-00000

SECRET

COMPERTS: (Con' *)

TRSA - 999

1zation.

T:is raise is recormended since it

will enable subject to devote

sufficient

anount of time to this work without being

harried over expenses which force him to look

for additional outside work.

At the present

exchange räte :1,500, arounts to $200 per month.

SECRET

---

## Page 48

14-00000

ti rate

FiO 6Ó'5

fuh 2115:

CENE UN PERLONE SASA JOR

Openziona

15 8

T67D, 1994623

Do do castanil sinda bao bena mada be tra Intornorod anticos se

matino la tho sens canada oi tha lodroni avallino.

la so rotarontadione contanad in acoalio vador parastata io 3o

By lo Jo Barrett

STO

201-1688T1

---

## Page 49

14-00000

VIA:

Air

SPLOTY AJA OR SEA POUTIO

it piss

¿SPATCH NO.

SEONET

CLASSIFICATION

TRSA -950

TO

: Chief, Foreign Division T

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Operations

DATE: _

-I June 1952

KAPOK

DEBERGIEED

SPECIFIC-

Ref:

Humanoid - Humanist

TRSW-643

l. Inquiry made of Humanist regarding the stätements

he made before

the

police curing his interrogation

reflects that

he reportedly refused to testify before the police but made his

deposition before the Procurador as to his part in the technical

and this only

he was told that Roddy had been identified.

installation which implicated only the writer fumanist's testimony

aS

had been engaged in or knew of any other similar installations on

any other people.

This he denied and maintained that the only

instellation was

on Juan BOSCH.

Humanist claims he made no mention

of Humanoid, and he believes the police know nothing about him.

2.. Humanist's claims also tally with the account of

his confession as given writer by Manuel VE!TURA, Presidential aide.

Humanoid has been on the alert and has noted nothing of a suspicious

nature which would indicate his activities being under observation

or investigation.

This matter of suspending his operations, as

suggested by headquarters, was discussed by writer with Ellio R.

Langtry during his recent

visit in San Jose

and the following

suggestions are made for headquarters' consideration:

Humanold at the present tlue

is acting as cutout and

chief agent for Humanist-2, Humankind-1, and Humankind-3.

There

is no other agent at the present time to whom these contacts can

be given. It is believed that if these subagents are allowed a

vacation, they will become practically worthless when

picked up again and have to work for the money they have been

receiving, aside from losing interin information and developments.

In an effort to establish a nore secure, as well as a

comercial, cover for Humanoid, this office has acceded to

Humanoid's

desire to set up a photography and photocopy shop in

the downtown area, and has encouraged him in it by allowing funds

- paid-for-rental-of-a_safehouse-to-beapplied instead-as rental

for his photo shop.

This provides Hunanoid with a good cover in

BESENSITIED?

HE 189 J1-28A

CLASSIFICATION

por tom 42-26

---

## Page 50

14-00000

SECRET

Page 2

TRSA-950

.Г.AРOR

a business which he is enthusiastic about and is a more natural

place for Humanist-2 to make unobserved contacts.

supplies Humanoid with a nore accessible spot and efficient means

to photostat mail intercepts and return them to the post office

in tine instead of com uting back and forth from his home in

the suburbs of San José.

Therefore, it is sugrested that Humanoid's semi-weekly

contacts with Huranist-2, instead of being cancelled,

be changed

to a weekly. letterdrop, and a live contact once a month to take

care of salary payrents and briefing:

This letterdrop can be

effected by Humanist-2 passing by the photo shop at night and

dropping his messages through the slot in the door usually used

for after-hours

delivery of films to be developed.

drop will be into a padlocked box, accessible only to Humanoid.

d.

Reparding Humanoid's contacts with Humankind-1 and

Humankind-3, these are conducted in a thoroughly safe manner.

Mail extracted from postal channels by them is deposited in an

envelope ana placed in a post office box.

It is checked daily

and 11 anything is there, it is removed, photostated,

and returned by him the same cay. 11

anyone is noticed hanging

around

the post office boxes, Humanoid does not go near the box

and returns later when the way is clear.

e.

Another factor has arisen since the last dispatch which

has made this post office operation more secure in that the

Director of the

Post Office is now beholden to Humanoid.

recent legal

squabble noted in the press which was raised by a

local Comunist conplaining about the government confiscating

his mail from abroad, the government desired to prove that this

mail was Connunist propaganda which they had a right to confiscate,

and the President therefore requested the Director of the Post

Office to furnisa samples to prove this point..

With this "heat"

on him,. the Director made a frantic appeal to Humanoid, who was.

able to procure these samples for him, which satisfied the

President, and for which the Director was truly grateful.

Therefore, no trouble is expected from this intercept operation

as long as the present personnel are being used,

and ample warning

mill be given Humanoid in advance of any change in the present

attitude.

Since it is believed that there is more to be lost

than gained by dropping contact with these agents,

the above modifi-

cations of these contacts are respectfully submitted for headquarters!

ugentral

ugenelt. Rodd:

SECRET

---

## Page 51

14-00000

chief, STB

ChIar, FOT

HUMANOID ProfoCt

21 kay 1951

1o

In'accordance filth conversationa held betusen Chief, STC and

FDr and mith ir. Johnston of your office,

the following nodliications

and additional dats concoming this project are set forth.

2. On 8 March 1951 a tochnical surveillance was Installed on the

residence of Juan BOSCH, & Caribbean revolutionary leader, utilizing the

services of a telephone compary employee, barcos Aurelius Salasar,

through HUNNIST. KUANOID and INMANIST carried on the nonitoring in

shifts, but at separated intervals. shortly thereafter, 1t mas noticed

that sore natives living nearby wore unduly intorestod in tra notivities

of the nonitorin; house, and, at the same tine, systerous bot aciosions

sart occurring in San jose.

HiMAnISI loarned that the police hid received

a report that uncrow parsons mere spying on the airfiel, nich adjolned

the monitoring post, ad perlaps vare manufacturing the bombs.

The sur-

volllance was discantimied and the equipment noved on 20 Larcilo

3o It ires deened nacessary to brief Salasar on a possibla invosti-

gation and provide him with a suitable cover story. It is believed that

Salazar bocame frlhtanad, ment to the police, and implicated HUMANSI,

to was subsequently arrested. ifter three days, HANIST confessed and

the chief of statios, through his otrong parsonal comactions.

with the Vice Prosident and other high officials, mas able to convince

the President this activity nas not detrimental to the interosts of

Costa Rica and the shole affair was quashed. HUANIST Has relassed fran

jali and the chles of station contimios to enjoy cordial and asicable

ralations with the Costa Rican officials concerned.

the near future, at which tiee INANIST till be terinated on the protert

that all operations are baing discontimued.. The only other currant

operation which iiIST knows arything about is illuSt-?, thas be tas

Instrumental in recruiting in July 1949. Ha has had nothin; to do miti

HUJANIST -2 since then and has never knor who handles hin or aven 1f he

18 in contact ith our station at the present tine. 'it is belloved that

HUMANOID's true identity is unknown to him, and so far as he knois,

HUMANOID Tas only halping on the ose joo, the technical surveillance.

201 - 168881

---

## Page 52

60

Although no ovidese hae bean sapaived fron any source which

would indicato lUID ban boda comprociad, tio chicl a statica bas

contime curin; this perios, hich is dostood to parsit furior stady

and albaivanion al all railifcasions di tií3 comesisa 23 rall 01

le transferrad to another inerican cuout (puesialy libut) os temparurily

suorsadal, es tho discrollos ai it statica ciluão

7. Por diacuadon wits the ChioS, IC sod IT. Joleaston, It 18

negrucklod that the itullins project be arrored as attached hereto,

ulta tro understandin; thut ito roactivation udll be dependent upon

---

## Page 53

4-00000

эIС/Ocо

290081

Odes, FUL

MUNIOND

he follosing armars aro keyed to your questiomaire dator

§ Februnry, 1957 concerning HUNNIOIDI

Do Babject 19 an active ageat.

Do He 13 used labstentially the sana as then clearanco

Has 1sJu9d.

labfect has not been used in comection tith projects

other than orifdraily contempiatad.

d: 111 Inforation on subjoci's perzonal and operational

security bas been subaltic.

The operation bas boen considered cocollent. The caly

tost of liáiDID's security has boen tha test of

evaluating his inforsation, ma the ovalustion of his

raliabillty by the Chias of Station.

I.

Thara hava been no operational or other changes in

tha status of this agent mich have affectod o

evalaasion oi this agent.

23 Fabruary 1951

B46 16

SECRET

201-168888

---

## Page 54

14-00000

SECK

TR.SA - 860

OPERATI OMAL REVISH

COUNTRY:

Costa Rica

OBJECTIVES AUD TASKS:

SALARY:

FALUATION OF SENTICES:

EVALUATINN OF

IN: ORATION:

OTHER FACTORS:

CORNENTS:

CRYPTONY: Humanoid

PERIOD: 1 October-31 December 1950.

No Change.

$750 per month.

Services

of this agent are extremely

valuahle to this station.

Aside from cutout

services in contactine subarente, he has been:

uged on other miscellaneous investipations

suitable to his capacity and has given freely

of his time and effort

The infomation furnished continues to be of

great value to this station.

No change.

As previoualy reported subject's plans to

transfer to Pinana have changed, and he 1s

staying in Costa Rica to finish

his schooling.

Due to subject's services and the time he

devotes in performing then,

as well

as

plans at this station for makine

Freater

demands on his time, it is planned to

reconrend that subject's salary be Increased

from 1750 to 1,000 per month.

SECRET

23 тев. 51

301-168881

---

## Page 55

14-00000

SECRET

19 February 1951

CIDE, FOr

Project Ortline IVANOID

Lo. To connlote the attaches flold project outlins, the follerin

biocraphical intomation 1s suboitted as required by paragraph 43

JUANOID was bora in 1922 In Dalalb, Illinois, USA, wher

e attanded hich school fras which ho graduated in 1940

Subject joined tho linitod Statos iir Force in thick he had

fivs jears' experionce in soneral Air Force intollijence

Subjeet 1s presently living 1n San J090, Costa Rica,

mors he has been attaiding school.

This project dates fron Juno 194, in Costs Rica but subject ves

en agant as our lanera station jor about sir sonths rifor to his departure

for Costa Rica.

30

Sabjeci's rollability 1s considered excellent and his operationa

sarvices aro also considered excellent.

the value of this project,

includin, the sub agents, is camidared to be of graat value to our

Costa Rican mission.

Lo INLANDID, In addition to beire a principal agent, 15 coployed

as a cutout for INMIST-?, INGER, and iTAliKIN. Attached are fiald

projost cutlinea for HUlWNISI-2 and I'AID, which includes inkliD

and -3. Fochnically, HUSUIST-?, HULk: ID-1 and -3 ara sub-ageats and

Enerators not required to havo fiold project outlines subrittedo. The

original devalo,mont, hovever, of these açents ins on an individial

projoct basis, and the cut-out HAlOND was later developed.

In len of a fleld project outline for HUGiE?, the fOllowing

1s sabrilttads

HUOGS 18 & Costa Riem by birth., he 18 private secretary

In the sain office of the laited Frult Compary in San Jose,

and 18 8 secrat agent of Guardia Civil of Costa 21c8.

or has the a option an as of dorototy to a cala

It lo HUGGER's production 13 not proat, it 1a valuable. Her

pay 1s approacataly $11.00 a nonth.

SECRET

14201-168811

---

## Page 56

14-001000

sguneT

6.

Ance the Chiof of Station has only direct contact ilth

HUACID and not tith the sub arento, the project is considared ae

aire project, the HULLDID irojecto for accountin; purposes, borerar,

the su agents are bodhr. handled as in 1vidual sgents airouch under

the control of the cut-out lllioll.

7.

HUMANOID's salary 11 $28.00 a month and operating expenses

are about 766.00 a nonth.

SECRET

---

## Page 57

14-00000

•73

SECRET

TO: Chisf, FOT

go Bonnet

SUBJECT: HULANOID

5 February 1951

operationel use leder Sparetionol ClEarance i a

Sic records nilret. thet subject tes epprovca los

33 dated _

19. July 1949 1050%

The cirerance ras tased upon infemation available et

desired to rsintain a continuing or periodic

rETiET CI

the security stetus of this precon and the projects

Tith hich he has teen or may be associated.

Your corrents on the folloring points rould ce appreciated.

In the

tient field correspordence is necresary to obtain this

Information please coordinets rith StC/sCo.

Is subject still in an operational status? If not

please indicate disposition.

Is sutjest bring used in substartially the same manner

as then clearance ras issued? If not please explain.

Fes subject been used in connretior. rith projects

other than origirally corterplated?

do Fas any inforration brer. reported affecting subject's

personal or operatiorsl security status?

to Has the oreration, including, security tests of the

agent, bren satisfactary?

Fas any inforsation bren dereloped in connection rith

this of other operations or bave changes in exdsting conditions

occurred rhich rould affrct jour originel eraluation of this agent?

SECRET

201-166588

---

## Page 58

14-00000

DEC. 1977

35-3

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

PACE No.

SAN JOSE

ROUTINE

7 DEG. 50

SPECIAL OPERATIO IS

To:

FDT (102-3)

ACTION:

IN 12657

ISFORMATTOADSO (45) , STA (G), STB (7), STC (8), 1ID (9), S/C (10011-12)

Paraphrase los Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Lars, 51 (1) 601 AR-380-5

DeAr 1i9

SANJ 678

TO: MASHE

CITE: SAId Did

RE: TRS A 756

HUMANOID PLANNING PERMANENT TRANSFER TO PANANA 1 FEBRUARY

REQUEST LIQS CONSIDER MPPROVAL OF HUMBUG BY 1 JANUARY 1951 TO PERMIT

SIIFFICIENT OVERLAP FOR ORIENTATION IN DUTIES AND CONTACTS.

TOR!6112 T DEC 50

SECRET

IT. IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

201-168881

Cory Na

Na 20,

tail

---

## Page 59

4-00000

B, 4417"

COURTRI: Costa Rica

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS:

SALARY:

EVALUATION OF SERVICES:

EVELUATION OF

INFORMATION:

OTHER FACTORS:

COMPENT:

SECRET

OPFRATIONAL REVIEW

TRSA - 745

CRYPTONYM:

Humanoid

PERIOD: 1 July to 30 Sept 1950.

As set forth in TRSA-564.

4750.per month.

No change.

Bo. change.

Subject is contact personally by Station

Chief.

Subject is contemplating moving to Panama

approxinately in April 1951, where be hopes to

continue his schooling and work for this

orranization.

He has had previous experience

and contacts in Panana and can be highly

recommended for similar work there.

substitution for subject has been considered

and is being processed.

30 Rept. 50

201-168881

SECRET

---

## Page 60

14-00000

SECRET

TRSA- 046

OPLEATIONAL REVIEN

CRYPTONTH: Humanold

COUNTRY: Costa Rica

PERIOD: 1 april to 30 June 1950.

OSJE TIVES AND

TAJKS:

Objectives, tasks,

and targets are set forth

1n detail 10 THSA-594.

SALARY:

1750 per month.

VALUATION OF SEKVIVES: Services huve been of considerable value to

oparationg.

The agents which he hanules ura

the most proiuctive of those now beine, used

oj this starlon, and his nanegazant ci these

Informants his beon excallone, rIon boLd aD

Infornation and a security stendpoint.

EVALUATION OF

INFORUATION:

The inforuction provided by the agents which

subject handlas, a great part of wbich is

owing to his onn industry anú devotion in

their development, is essily the nost valuable

produced by this station.

OTHER FACTORS:

COMMENTS:

Ec comment.

No chenzes are contempleted in subject's

status.

He is contenplatlad a nove to

Argentina sche line withlo the next two years

and hopes to contiaue his present employment

In that country, and li pos81o1e to make a

career of this business in any capacity ne

cas obtair.

Els InteErity, discretion, 8до

naustry cannot be too higali comebaded and

me real that he ls aninently sulted for staff

or cover esployuent. in any capacity deemed

comsensurate with his Intollactual and other

abilities.

SECRET

30Qune 50

501-1688T1

.o....

---

## Page 61

14-00000

StUNET

98690-56468

21-1-11

C2LA5a 109107 Elrsa10a 8

Fossnada

29200nd during tha stret els menths ed int Gurrent fliest jesso

To rELato E site than seeing alicity In 2909s +i thint

mat at this tina vut the pry serena lus ilestini, i chasia

Sha 15491934 11a23l Jot da beite laserd ly li san al s900.

do tellug the artion et this dies tid toiltia ta sustards

21 aquil 50

2-1688T

SPB

SEGHET

---

## Page 62

14-00000

SECRET

OPERATIGNAL RETTE

TRSA- 588

COUNTRY:

Costa

RICa

OBJECTIVES AND TAзK3:

SALARY:

EVALUATION OF

SERVICES:

EVALUATION OF

INFORMATION:

OFEER FACTORS:

COMENTS:

CRYPTCY™: Husanoid

PELIOD: 1 January lo 31 Maron 1850.

Objectives, tasks, and targets are set

forts in detail in TRSA-564.

6500 per month durlne the quarter under

consideration. $750 per month affeotive

1 April 1950.

Services have been of considerable value

to operations.

The agents which he handles

are the most productive of those now being

used by this station, and bla tanagedent

of these inforsants has been arcellent,

fron both an information and s securit

standpoint.

The Infornation provided by the agents

Muon subject hensles.

a groat fart of which

is owing to his nun Industry and devotion

In their developnent, 1s essily the most

valuable procuced by this stution.

Ho conRent.

No changes are contemplatad in subjoot's

status.

SECERT

31 mael 50

501-168881

---

## Page 63

4-00000

VIA:

A1I

SPECOTT AIR OR SEA POUCHI

Dis.. ICH NO..

1234-564

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO

:Chief, Foreiga Division T

DATE:.

31 Narch 1950

FROM :: shieF of Stetion, San José

SUBJECT: GEHERA- Operations

As Oreston Mallie Gain Reca

spEciFic Project Huranoid:

Ref: TP.S"-447

In sccordence with verbal agreenent nade by the Chief of

Station in lashington and formalized in referenced menorandun,

monthly salary paid to Humanoid will be increased from the present

1500 to ;750.00 effective 1 April 1950.

h revised "Field Projest Outline" applicable to Project

Humanoid 1s subaitted herewith, in accordance with GOI No. 2.

Possible existing confusion with regard to our charging

of expenses of Project Humanoid and allied projects for which

Huranoid supplies cutout services will be clerified in the near

future as revised "Field Project Cutlineg" applicable to these.

4. The sttached "Field Project Outline" superceies TriSA-347.

Encl: 1

Anur

(Mever

Elmer C. Hercer

ale 1ste 51-28A

Quajet suming one allalent by 150%

1 20°

27009

Turion alloto 300°%

HID COPY

-

31 haree 50

SECKET

201-168881%

CLASSIFICATION

56-6-71-40

---

## Page 64

14-00000

T7:3-A-506

OPRIATTONAL REVIPW

COUNTRY: CoBta R108

OBJECTIVES AND

TASKS

SALARY

EVALUATION OF

SERVICES

EVALUAT IN OF

INFORLATION

OTHER FACTORS

OOLAENTS

CRYPTONYS: Huranoid

PERIOD: 1 October to 31 Dacember 1949.

This agent provides outout services in

conneotion with the penetrations of

Vanguardia Popular and also for the postal

nercept project... In conneotion with

Do latter he does all of the recholoal

reproduction work reguired.

reports alsoellaneous intormation which ho

obtains from hia sohool and busineas

contacts. Project dates fIda June 1940.

1500 per month. Increased fron $400 Moven-

bor 1949.

Services have been of considerable value

tо оporatlons.

The agents which he

hendles are the most productive of those

management of these Informants

30od, from both an information and a

security standpoint.

The Informution provided by the Informants

of the subjeot has been valuable operg

tonally and 18 considered gouerally

rellable.

Contacts with the subject are nade direotly.

He is now attempting to obtain a seoure

PLaCE In WhICh tO Meet HUMANISIE. Other

nformants handled by this arent are

HUGGEE, HUIANKIND-1, and HULANEIND-3.

to changes are contesplated In the manner

"Of sandling this agent.

58:

113T

001-168881

---

## Page 65

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

Air

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

TRSA -468

TO

CONFIDENTIAI

CLASSIFICÄTION

Chief; Foreign Branch I

FROM

:Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Project Humanoid

SPECIFIC Amendment to Contract

DISPATCH NO.

DATE:

1 November 1949

Effective. l November 1949 the salary of

the individual designated as Humancid was increased

$100.00 to a total of $500 per month.

This action was

taken in consideration of excellent services,

not in

time,

but in quality,

In the management and direction

of Projects Humankind, Humanist-2, and Hugger.

melN

екия

Elmer C. Hercer

-AEGISTAY CORT

14/200.39

201-1688810

81-80

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 66

14-00000

Se: ROT

RAPOSITIZED

TRS-A-449

per bad 43-23

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

COUNTRY: Costa Rico

OBJECTIVES AND

TASKS:

SALARY:

ETALUATION OF

SERVICES:

BYALUATION OF

INFORNATICN:

OTHER FACTORS:

COMMENTS:

CRYPTONY!: Humanoid

PERIOD: 1 July to 30 Septerber 1949

1) Cutout services.

2) Communist penetration of local labor orren-

Izationg and/or student groups.

(3) Discretlonary reportine and operational

pursuit of any and all intelligence inferuation

conine his way by reason of his normal dally

activities.

8400 per month.

(1) As Humankind cutout: Subject has continued

to handle this delicate and tine-consuming

assign.ont In a completely satisfactory manner.

As Hugger Outout: Although Hugger still

does not produce as vie would like,

It 1s not

the fault of subject, who has devoted time

and

effort to his education and diraotion.

(2)

Rather than employment or Investigation

of prospeotive Informents developed by subjeot

with regard to these objeotives, we have

assigned subjaot the handling and direction

of Hunanist-?.

We have every reasoa to belleve

that he will do this satisfaotorily, and based

on the high-level infornation wbloh

we raCeIve

throuen this source, subjoot. will be able to

procaod moro intelligently to the coverago.

of the topics assigned.

(3) Subject 1s proceeding slowly as directed

by us, and attempting first of all to integrate

the three projoots with which he is charged.

That stenning from his projects,

however,

Is anong the most useful and valuable

which we obtain.

None.

Subjact is considered to ba the nost valuable

employee we have at the present time from

the

point of view of aotual present usefulness,

as well as that of interest, Industry, and

comprehension

•of objeotives.

IS CESERITIED

DESENSITIZED 4 0xt.49

ner 65W 43-26 201-168881

---

## Page 67

14-00000

259,1443

29 Sapterber 1949

Commnlot Or gundsore

REVERSES 173-655, HASH 5590, TPS7-377

Ine sour oo of that roport, as

Fall so lubbub, the le a personal friend of the original informant, have

both baen attanting for song tins to extract mare inoration fra

LaTo In ENditon, transier as imariot? to tha nanagement of himmold,

uhleh ocured this waak, has forded us ulth an additional mano of

confirantlos and limasold is linking tis matter his too 1 priority Jobo

te espect to be ablo to assle vur opinion of the truth or falalty

of tho original information ithin tuo tocos tine, and if the story than

appsaro to have sone basis in fast, all our resources till be esplaited

fur further detailso

05981222 15 de1l. Opera

001-168886

0.4.3м11-

---

## Page 68

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

Alr Pouch

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

TR3-A-429

DISPATCH NO.

caji files

JATOR WED

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, Poreign Branch T

DATE:

FROM : Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GENERAL- OpeTAtIOnS

SPECIFIC- Speciflo Operational Changes

REFERENCE:

TRS-4-396, TRS-A-385

13 September 1949

l. Certain rearrangements involvine thres curreat

projects. of this offico are baing made in order to produce greater

effectiveness and socurity. The projects involved are Huranoid,

Humanist and Eumankind.

2.

The owner of the separate office usad by Humanoid

to process the material racelved tbrough Projeot Humankind has

requestes that the spase be vacated by 15 Septembor 1949. His

reasons are purely business and have nothing to do mith our

operations.

on tree date, therefors, our effects will be moved

to a new locale, which 19 Incidentally more desirablo fron the

point of tien of convenience and security..

The new tsafe-hcusgr

will cost $400.00 per month, an increase of $275.00 over that

paid for the former offico, and is to be oharged to Project

Humankind offective 15

September 1949.

To offset this Inoreased cost bat prinoipally to

provide adequate exploitation of Hunanist-?, that Individual

will be turned over to. Humanold for direct handling prior to

¿ Ootober 1949.

Humanist-1, whose sole funotion has bean to

contact Humanist-? and who has received a salary of $250.00 per

monte, will be aliminated on 1 October 1949.

This arrangerent

has been carsiully plaunad and disoussed with all concerned and

can be made without

security risk.

It will provide latelligent,

American control of our potentially sost valuablo agent, and

eliminate the present cumbersome oo munication and contact.

arrangeMBat.

499 198; 88-21

No change will be made in present symbol dosig-

DESE STILLES GET

Biner C. Mercor

fer ES: 43-25

D ZAPORTED

CLASSIFICATION

201-168878

---

## Page 69

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: _ AlI POUCh

SPECITY

ID OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO..

TRS-A-403

FORD

но.

Ape 1007

CLASSiFiCATION

TO

FROM

: Chief, Poreign Branch T

DATE:

: Chief of Station, san Josó,Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC. Operational Data, Project Humanoid

REFERENCE: TRS-A-347

9 August 1949

The following operational data is forwarded in accordance with

Field Memorandum No. 6 of September, 1947:

1. Humanoid.

2. Cutout services with a large amount of personal discretion

permitted.

3.

Subject is considered to be estrezely reliable and intelligent,

unich, combined with his past experience, quallfy him for a

wide range of assignments.

4. San Josó, Costa Rica.

5. No.

6. He would, but at present is prevented from travelling by

personal

arrangements which it would be inconvenient for

him to change.

All personnel are

paid by us:

Bamankind-1,. $100.00;

Humankina-s, $100.00; Hugger, $100.00 (mcnthly).

8. No.

9.

Yes:

LASZASTZED

P: 60t 40-25

10-

Yes.

-Subject 1s charged with principal direction of Project

Humankind

and Projact Hugger.

Aside fron this, he 1s charged

with investigation and recruiting of information personnel

as suggested by himself in accordance with his opportunitios,

but only after consultation with us.

RAPOXSIREED

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 70

14-00000

SECR 2RAPOK

BEOCKSITIZED

Page

TRS-A-403

9 August 1949

11.

12.

By direct contact in a "safe house".

Material suanating fron Project Humankind through Subjoct

18 photographic.

Material fron Project Hugger and from

Subject himself is written.

1s.

Approximately 40%.

14. Written. Copy was forwarded as TRS-A-364.

15.

The subject matter with which Subject is concerned under the

arrangenents noted under No. 10 above is that of communisi

activity in student and labor groups.

16.

He works only as directed by us, but frequently suggests

mattais for his own consideration.

17. Subject is paid in colones at the rate of $400 per month.

18.

After six months employment, approximately December, 1949,

we expect to raise his salary to $500 per month.

19.

"Contact expenses in connection with Projects Hugger and

Humankind are paid subject, and average $200 per month.

Maintenance expenses and rent in connaotion with the "safe

house" where he does his work average $125.00 per month.

20.

We would, mere such a contingency to occur. To date 1t

has not.

21.. (a) Superior

(b) Superior

22.

Semi-covert because of his nationality.

23. (A) High level.

Elmer C. Mercer

DESENSITIZN

per find 43-26

XAPORTIZED

---

## Page 71

14-00000

> SECRET

110.

OFFRATIONAL CLEARANCE

TO :

Cperational Clearance is hercty granted for the lise of thaKOld.

Limitations: As defined in TRS-A-376.

i Vo

Acting Operationel Glearence Officer

for Assistant Director, Special Cportions

Date

719149

Copy -

_ of 2 copies.

07B notice attached

SECRET

801-168881

19 Quey 19

21 guly.

wish 2508605

---

## Page 72

14-00000

SEGREL

OperatIonal CReATEDGE OfFICeE, OSO

Chief, FET

14 duly 1949

lo It 10 requested that pravioloral operational olenrancs be spartad

far the uae of luranoid.

2o It la further requested that a covert insertigation bo maso ea

subfoot.

BGapba

SECRET

SQJ-4-347

201-168551

---

## Page 73

14-00000

SECRET

CIORATIOMAL FOTIEN

"COUNTRY: Cogta Rice

PERIOD: 1 - 30 Jane 1929

TRS -A- 378

CRYPTONY: Humanold

OBJESTIYZS AND

TASKS:

"SALARY:

EFALUATION OF

SERVICES:

EVALUATION OF

INFORMATTON:

OTHER PACTORS:

COLLENTS:

(1) Cutout services.

(2).- Communise penstration of local labor

13).- Discrationary roporting and oparationa

pursale of ang and all intolilgence lafcruation

caine, his nay by reason of his nornal dally

activities.

140 por que.)

(L)• As lunsriinà cutout: subject hes proven

exceptionully succeseful in to

unusubi difflaultles.

He hus, however, daveloped

the cuntacts necassors undor this hocaine on a

personel friendly besis to the point raere all

are lendine their enthusiasilo cooperution.

As Hugeor cutout: For ce firot tine la the

history of his enploynent with us, Buezer le

aubrittine, well-orgecized reports and -beginning

to appreciate our needs.

attrioutabie to the time and effort devotad to

direction by Huzanoid.

(2). Subjoct tes been fully occurlad durine the

short period coverod herein and has nude no

progrecs with respect to tily assignnent.

(3). Subjeci tes cultirated three potential

sources in flalds of probable Interest to us.

After further local investigation of their

possibilities, baadquartors will be consulted.

Diractly, suoject has prosliad ao information.

That stanlaR lsn tao projoots he la now super-

vialne, however, is accurale and always valuable.

Hone.

In the Innediate future, suojoot's cutout accivillio

should settle lato nore or less of a routine,=

relsasing nis energles for developient of other

DESENSITIZED

aggignmentio

SECREX

jer 03 43-26

HEAP

30 June 49

201-168851

---

## Page 74

14-00000

OFFiCIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

Air Pouch

SPECIFY AIR

OR SIA POUCH

DISPATCH

но.

TR3-4-364

JAd

KAPOIZED

CLASSIFICATION

Chief, Foreign aranch I

DATE:

FROM

: Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GEHERAL. Operations

SPECIFIC. Project Rumanoid

Reference: TES-4-347

13 Jung 1949

1.

A copy of the contract signed by the

individual

principally concerned in subject project

1s attached.

The signed original is retained in our

files.

Pertinent operational date in accordance

with Field lemorandu No. 6 dated 22 Septenber 1947

will be forwarded when the operational rutine bas

been established in more or less its final form and

we are better able to judge the efficienes and value

of the project.

Caven' Mercer

Elner c. Lercer

Enc 1:

Copy of contract

Are 180; 81-20

CLASSIFICATION

13 quae 49

201-1688810

501-168881

---

## Page 75

14.00000

is one

TRS-A-369

22 Juno 1949

2. Informent fugger, formerly reporting through subject, has been

transferred to the control of Euranoid (see TES 1-347)

Hucklebne

Prize.

tin-

slugged

DESENSITIZED

614223

201-168881

---

## Page 76

14-011100

м-.

• THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

USAF Personal History and security checks.

---

## Page 77

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

I A :

SPECIFY RIN OR SIA POUCH

DISPATCH. NO.

TR3-A-251

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, Foreign Branch T

FROM.

: Chief of Station, San dosé, Costa alca

SUBJECT: GENERAL. Operations

SPECIFIC-

Project Hyaropathic

Reference:

TZỸ-Â-365; TZP-i-411

DATE: 5 iGnuary 1949

1.

2.

This station intends to make the fullest possible use of

Hydropathic,

but it is not considered feasible to proceed

with a formal request for project authorization until he

hes established himself in this area and ve nave made hig

acquaintance.

Tentatively it is planned to use him in a

cut-out capacity, resting Informants which we wili provide,

for an orientation period

of indefinite auration.

In this

period it will ba possible to evaluate Subject's

capacity

to play an integrated part in our operational set-up, and

approval for our plang in this respect will then be re-

quested.

Hydropathic will be contacted upon arrival and initial

arrangements for his cut-out services forwarded to head-

quarters.

*. 23-23

CC

Elmer C. Mercer

- Panana City

CS COPI

P08" 00; 8r-20

CLASSIFICATION

DESENSITZED

EX CON 43-23

1201+ 1651821

11-0

TRSAi

2.51

CATE 5 JAN 49

---

## Page 78

14-00000

1A:

AlT

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH. NO._

189-A -250

CORRIDENEr

CLASSIFICATION

TO

FROM

Chlef of station,

Panama City

Chief of Statiod,

San JOB$

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Operations

SPECIFIC-

Project Hydropathio

Referance:

TZP-i-365, Furt I

DATE:

5 Janua 194₴

The attached document, having served its purposa,

18 returned to your statios.

Your cooparation la the ustter is greatly approciatod.

23-23

1 Enol.

ao - washington

T2PA-965

Files i-de

cheer cloqueal

но.

98-20

APR 19AT

REGISTRY COPY

COMFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

5 Dan.49

201-168881°

---

## Page 79

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: _

OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO:_ T2P-1-402

-nI.

SECRE

CLASSIFICATION

TO

: hcting Chief, FBT

FROM

: Chief of Station, Farana City, Fanana.

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

SPECIFIC-

DATE: _ 51 December 1948.

Pefs

Operations

HYTFOPATHIC

TZP+7-411

1.

KIDROPATHIC is not a jroject (leno to all Latin American Stations, dtdo

9 June 1947). It is a sirple recruit-ent of an individual agent to be

controlled exclusively by the San José Station.

TZF-4-355 Part II sug-

gested a manner In which he light establish contact with INDROCYST I.

Since HYDROCTS! I 1s leavirg Costa Rica terporarily, this is no longer

a consideration.

2.

All docurents in our files nave been forwarded to San José.

This station

has only contacted Subject twice and has told hin nothing about our organi-

zation or any possibilities of any full tine positions. Il we can assist

by arranging a contact betteen HYUROPATHIC ard San josé or in any other

manner, tre till be glai to do so. In the meantine, ne will take no further

action unless instructed to do so by the Hone office.

Thou f Wariag

GrovEr Jo

aring.

Distribution:

Wash

Sani

Files

(2) ~

(1)

=(-13)

DESENSITIZED

FOr 60t.40-23

1201+ 16681381

PSEST

TZ. PA

40.2

LATE

• 31DEC4S

FORM

40R°180; 31-20

ES S37t

SFOS-RILET

CLASSIFICATION

---

