# 104-10110-10292

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10110-10292

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

.....

IINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONL

56840

INTERVIEW REPORT

NAME OF SUBJECT

FILE NO.

007-557|

BUSTOS-VIDELA, Charlotte

REASON FOR

INTERVIEW

Retirement: CIA

30 Dec 1977

TEMPORARY ADDRESS

PERMANENT ADDRESS

PO Box 3030

FALLS CHURCH. VA. 22043

PRESENT TITLE, GRADE AND DIVISION

Home Tee Phone

281-2258

GS-14

DETAILS OF CONTEMPLATED FOREIGN TRAVEL

Europe

(dates noT form)

BADGES. PASSES: KEYS AND CREDENTIALS

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do No! Reproduce

CLEARANCES'

Commo. 51

94

OVER 99 StATE (Retirement under Cover MiState,

ALL PHASES OF SECURITY WITH RESPECT. TO SUBJECT'S RESPONSIBILITY. TO THE ORGANIZATION WERE FULLY AND COM.

PLETELY DISCUSSED.

2. SUBJECT WAS ADVISED THAT ALL INFORMATION RECEIVED AND COMPILED BY THE AGENCY IS 'OFFICIAL DATA.

AND IS THE

PROPERTY OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THAT NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE HAS ANY PROPERTY RIGHT IN SUCH... INFORMATION.

3. SUBJECT WAS INFORMED

THAT THE SECURITY REGULATIONS AND THE SECRECY AGREEMENT APPLY, NOT. ONLY TO INTELLI-

INFORMATION: BUT, ALSO TO ANY STATISTICAL, ORGANIZATIONAL: OPERATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION OF WHICH

4. SUBJECT WAS INSTRUCTED THAT INFORMATION PERTAINING TO

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS. SOURCES

AND METHODS PECULIAR

TO THE AGENCY MAY NOT BE DIVULGED TO PERSONS IN OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES. EVEN THOUGH SUCH PERSONS ARE FULLY SECU-

RITY CLEARED WITHIN THEIR OWN DEPARTMENTS.

SUBJECT WAS INFORMED THAT SHOULD ANY QUESTION ARISE ON SECURITY MATTERS HE MAY COMMUNICATE WITH THE AGENCY

FOR ADVICE AND GUIDANCE.

...ned to NEPAL: Cures: icee. or austestiona and knoulede of any incidente or activities of persona which

is/ Thomas A. Gaines

SIGNATURE OF INTERVIEVER

DATE

30 Dicember 1977

G73 1099 CoiTion Ous

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

(11-36)

ZIBR

---

