# 104-10116-10261

## Page 1

104-10116-10261

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

20 Degembar 3957

FLORATIN MORE Chief, LIOD/BRE

SUBJECAS

December 2957 RAMPARIS Article Dotitlad "Ine

CIA's " Brons and foot Ilmenadoas!"

BROaT and ROOf Ing. = $40555a

Tao following employees at to and rods, ino. vere approved for

coutars nao on the dates tadicatads

WELL'S, ROSs +5455552-11

FOXINE, IsaRe Nestan, Viet President

in charge or porcina aparaticas

57405552-8

23 liaris 1950

1I Decembar 1952

26 FEbrURRY 1953

HARVER, kerrItt Allen, Calar

Frogeat Accoustant

31 JEMUBry 1957 and

13 ARrIS 1957

+910555200

HORTOCRERS, Thanas Koanuta

+840555800

1405552-1

WILLIAMS, Bobby Joa

KC452165

KAGiER, RIcheri Andrew, Civi

Eaglator a 11453103

(A PECA VES ISSURE FOr.

contest and ausessment but:

he was sot ased a bed a poor.

credit rogutatica,

ROSES, SUes Ray - 40454227

15 Fabruary 1958 and

8 Lay 1957

& Detober 1957

14 July 1965

3. August 1965

6 suguet 2965

19 July 1966

BROILI FOURDATION

There dE no os cubduct file on the BROMI foundation vut a reference

To conta @

marianium dated 30 danuary 1951 to the Deputy director, treas

SECREI

Excluded irora asterate

deciessill culca

---

## Page 2

tEn Chlos, Central Cover drouy abuseralag tie tareat of exposire st

Agonay operations and conaludes that the BROWN Foundation of Houston,

Faxad sas ata as the sout pulnarablo to exporura deoduse puble radordo

reflert direct tiea from Agenty nation Luatrumenta 1ãontIIy00 by.

COMETERMINA PATHAN IN 1964 to LaBitinato FOUndAtIOnI end AgenoT

malents they have sporcored.

100-273

the ViKaCH Fond (RAuDID was created by tha Agendy in June 1958

as aù antensiult pilvate anilanchrople foundation Legalis Incorparated

under the In of end with en offixa in the Distilot of Columnis. It In used da)

a corsE and finding unchantan for ForJect DILA PREN.

¡this grajest 1n. the deratomant or organisational and Individual asseta capablo

ot stragthening the malty of not commist teachers and thel, orcuaizations

throughout the vorlds. These objestived are carried out through the gotive

support by the Agensy of the starnational prostans of the National

3.

Ducatien Apposation (PELtiTai) id the Horia Confederation of Orennisations

05 the Tasching PrOfESSIOn (DACIOD) Vita VAlES HEA 1S ASTILIATED, DA NUTEN

195T Decausa of exposure o8 tse Varuna Fund In nina medity the Board

mandera mera conteated adviced as talloras

Eech Verton Burd bourt nember 1s being rärined that be will

neGRITO a copy of the in and vecIp lettera regarding press.

aulegationes he s11l acknerlege his nentership 12 the Varnoa

Fund boura 1s ecaricatad with the froti he 111 acknortedge that the

Vernon Find has supported cort end tuat 1t nais a faw suall granta

tos REAs be 1111 decline nai surther canneat on the prigis or oporation

of the vernon Fuad, on sourced of Vernon Fund nonor, in thetber the

turnon fund ressived nones dron the sgoney, or may siber aspect of

the Funds ha will be informed that the Vernon fuas readide ure not

avallable to the sub1i0, shart of subpoenny de vill do noted to retura

eny 112e0 or papers relating to the Vernon ludy he vall be told toat

DI. CARR (H1I22on Goorgs ChI) has not get had to Identity any board

mubare but sail probaäly have tos la vill not coment on the creation

RISKy Albert Alate, III - HC278333 (Verson Fund Soard Menber)

Albert Elate DICK, III, President, A. B. DIts Esony, Chleago,

Illtuate, vas aranted a covert sacurity Approval for hia vitting use 1a

connection vite the fundlag ot Poolect IPHOLARI.

M1IZ1ON d. CARR WAB FrANTE A COVETE SAOUTITY CLEATUNCO ON 22 A9F1I

1955 sor amdtting use mader PrajOOt LIPIINS end oR 21 Moranher 1967 30

raceived à covert security Approval to peralt 21s un under Projeot

DILEMPREY 1s Dio position si Secretazy-Deneral or tua Herla Confederation

of Organisations In the Desalina PrOfesaJOR.

i5 = 1749438

Enjoe file cro, attorier, FPE tha Vernor Fuad, sas grantod & Cover

---

## Page 3

15 Hoventer 1956 and on 19 september 195S be recaived anotsar

covart sesurity alacrease to perult his una as a larses Currit

Hosts Contaderation or Oifartzaties

(Funded Dy the Veraga Mana)

In Asia I90T i discusston vi hala tatuen en Agency representativo

And 2O NICKSON aNd INT TIKE DL the NCOIP (World Contadoration of

OrERAtIOns of thE TenDing IransIon concerning suture funding for

VOTe Banause of publiosty concamning the funding as Hughs by the vestion thisi

HOWP landership promined its nanbership that no Airther Veredo Fund movey

told he secepted ints, the atta on the Vernon Mund inn elarifled. Joba

maorson felt thirt the best pluthen would be a onentana caly tofusion die

mosey by sterite choi into the ricole bani nacount to la basisstorped by a

Jotten tron the attorney for the Vernon Find, Bryce sal, taò sould attributa

the monog. to masters of tha Vernos Mund loard so manymounts Hinhad to

provade tUre sata purricient tunde to doves experioss until other soirdes

ocula be torado

In Hay 2967 sohn 190950 0t the WON described to 12 Ageasy repres

sentative sa intartler de hed tita like NacHAiuS dE IIME Magazias on

I IT I96Y uo manted to dincuss the effects of perspagar publicity on

sOr? operations, dchila Mis abpecially Intareuted in say commilea forced

additional 10501at1cn fron tes inturnter to tarrant vratiss hia profostes

0xthe18+;

50K4z Raymond Tossph - 7.60051

Ragsond toseph suke ina staated a Covert Cecurity Approvni

os 10 duty 1951 for use an a ninting mulaype of Froscot iNtuces und

en 19 way 1902 be ratesvad a covert amuraty aproval for dis Man Ey Projoct

Lu annietrativa dozzoer of the nodd carederation as arguntiationa on the

Roachias 5r0f0sa100.

It tus not passiblo to Identity a subjact tile a toon racurson

employed by tha hardd Crafederation of Orguizations of the rescaine

GAEL COUFDANION

on Intons sure sagative as this CABlI Foundation, (ENS Those D. MARQI)

pricen IriendE of the Miadie Iant O 121),377 and 365300

mersona friendo of the Waddle Bast (Projout zealak) vas ersabel a

ly 1952 sita tas purpose of empiaying asgrenaito propaganda to provote

SECRET

---

## Page 4

tho Erienastip of peoples st the licar id Hidâze Iust tovara the

taited fratas and to ecutet Corumiua. It thA Incorporatad as a

ruluaturg, hoinoflt nmborship corporatim inde the lars of hen

rorx stato Dotothy IliPoad, columiat, tuo selootaa eo chalrmais.

In RaTLy 1967 AINE radird a dusa daal of neunaper publierty con-

serning tts Apasy arliliaton Inetutine urtielea in tu, Bortot press,

TAES Sad VSSa TIERTATIQUAL ATVATIA, SyJIA WAA tce onty edratry 2n

satoà Anits le nozito tuat ralonù tia quostion of tis argmization'a

contiaus a exastesca in fas ligat ol alinentions yi Ageuoy Eiaanosal

sapporty althousa, there vere runtiltsto ia srag.

m iiointo niad

2ers so no os osbfact siln ou tas Imn Jeciato Funt Iha attaabrd

nsmorantum dated 30 Januasy 1961 M'in Culel, Contrel Cover Q'oup to

Dogaty DiNeatoI, PlADE - "'IUTBNL DI EXpOSUre of AgaNcy OporatIIas" e:

statad tbRt RalPaits bas erpreusnd intensa izterest in che ses Molato

Fund, and ito souroes nl inocnu ia lartiouiar, becewie it luada 5 HBSPIIC

"Sirtelea (routà aeruira).

M. De NasT Teuadation

I9TT SE nO OS GLOjeCD MIA Dn tHO M. Di MMABON Fouadation tut.

Os 1ndioas reffest a flle se tão 1 1. ANVERGON raspator and tunor Institutai

A ntuso rogren to detenune the efronta in diverse Biolonical, Systena

rasulting trou exposura to higa intunalty coharont sadintion vna contractad

vith the I4-D. AnDASON Eospital end Temor Inetitito, Halverehty of

Teraa; Foustoa, Teran 11 Ostober 2963 iut as OS 16 Apr1l I984 tiuera vaa a

zold oõor asastet soíos tleud iita the contract bicrune ot a quastion

un to voy the aganey should beur the toore cost of the contract shica ure

ta ba tor snter adeparaasutal vnao

In May 1967 a sota 15i ths 1110 1xdicated

that He D. Mvimisci Hospital aad lunsr Listitute vili be mnatzed La c1aaa18lad

MORS fDE THe ANUUOY, JUNTO VUS NO TACTIO OE E CLEUTENOE SEELUdA

Bes attashed musrenisn listud 30 Jazuary 1981 tron Entat, Central

Goyat tronn to lupaty direstur, elturd o "Uartat os ipesure af Agency

OpETEtiCaS"* Mie MARISALL FCUndaSIOR d$ EoNston, niTia se considered

vos dr the sout vulneredle to espouura.

A "Ten tank Iilnos" arttele tor 26 Pebruary 196T dlsozozad that tha

MARSUALI Toindatioa Ol Fdustor, Ieni chuasaled fuaãe Izos tihe Agency to

the schoca of Iadustrsnl oud Inbor Ralattons at Catachi Uaireralty tsca

296% $0 1963.

(SOa DOUEZAS De MARGAILE)

SECREM

---

## Page 5

DentIa JuaN INOr, Erecutive Yea Fresident of anoint Bad BOOT, Jae.y

Fountou, reaso, tao anutad a Cavert Securtty Clearace on 23 Octaber

1953 fur yus as a covert astociata in the unitad Etates on Projent IfCOli.

Oa 82 April 1965 ho vas cranted i Provisional Lovert Funuity Approval to

parmit actoet and astesamant of thom in connection sita sia possible

une in dorsins on the soird of directora for a proprtetary ising sat up to

aupport stati employear tontine in varr, thailand, Laos and a Covert

Socurity ipproval for this una ma iscuad on 18 June 1905. Ibase 0294192006

TATE FARCELTER 2 JUNO 29ST AN BRONT VAS DOE UNAL.

N 195239

Ferna Paltal, President sad Director of ERDil and ROOT, Tno., HountoR,

I25ns Bal Fresident sad ITunted of tha BROIl Poraditica, Houston, Veras,.

nas fruated a covert security Approval on 3 Dadenher 2953 For ude as a

Covert, resosinta 1a the la Be Midix PrOject IPCOlNo Tata clearanco ms code

ELARK, IM

S/2, Am: - 1316051.

COVerior AILEA SHIVARS Of Toa use on the Marisay, Eupra ar

FACTS FORUM AnTS in september 1955a lo vis Listed as a trustes of tie

AmErICOn GODS CoveralAnt SOaLEty IN April 1955.

AIsaa MIVnia, Qoveroy of lucau, mao s signas of a stutement appearina

In the NEW YORK TIES for 20 October 1949 aponnored by tha Irca curtalo

rafueue Ginnin of the Internütional Rescue Comittoe, The IRE sua de-

scribed an badloally bood, humanitarion arganization but taus individualo

ai questionable loyalty dare been pestoreted vito 10.

A NEW JOR TINS ClIppINE fOr 1E Tebruary 1954 stated that Allna

Thare ons be so vella droue betrad Amricans over consissiste

Amaricans

«a esther procoated or anti omanlet."

reterance suade s7J.

1000x. s

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Licens I. CABOI, it, bay ipprovad for contast use on 1? August

IgEr,. At the tine he saa tloa Frostdent end Alrector of Intomational relatsons

Taxas Eutzstone sud Cosmical Corpulation, He sas residing i Lauserue,

fritzuriane: Coutect interent nas for arleling dim ou lganey Intererta

12 econonto und political dsvelopumta in various Europes constriesi

shontoad industriad dapslopat, slee

to us the quojert of a farorable

backercend Inventigatoà la 1950

Those Dudley CAlls tad srinteds Covert seculty Apprayus for

use under Project IPtOlle: On 26 dune 1959 la van Lusted & fovert Socurity

Approval 10e usa vith Profest PRELATI. (He NaS tO FaTTO da the Presidonty

or chairma of sa Anerica cosmittee lions objoative wus to fuster

Franconnertom relations nt the sundesment lovel. CABOT had been approved

for contact uno ta 1950 mid escaltud a cleerance. Far uso on the Izecutive

committee of MoI-t. In Arisa 1994 A continuatton of tadi sitariade vas

grantad on 89 Osteber 1958.

F0: 1427224 A = 116555.

Ign for use do an agent to latin ineries: mier comercia, cover.

I4 Jinuary 1955 a Covart Security Cloarace kat lecuad to Akily to pursit bis

une ca a covert hasociate la the laited states under Project ItrUMil....

it the timi da had a nater of tuinons interests la Fouston, Tarat, 1a 841

W1z18na do Gus Contruction Company, Houston, Hasaal Tenza Bartesa

standarion Corporation, Eltizens Stite Dual of Roveros, esco

NORPED ENA

Negatise

ASHOREKE, DADE - 153209

Lest INVORItE sat granted a Corert decurity Approval on 31 March 2953

In order that he coul be medo vittine of Agency interest la tha M. De

ANTARSON Fonadatica

Els 11do contaias a noNapaper olippinE iron tho

HARUINION QUAR fOX 3 DRONINOr 1903 tulas conceras dia Appalatuent an

specia consuel fos. a Texte Otate Court of Inquiry lato the assassination be

President munior He had anbloved prominenod shen bo tas proudoutor

est the inuunburg Nor TiLala, No Article also stated tust in 1960

JAVORCKI DUdeSINIT TOPPESENtON LYMAN D. JUNEOf IA a COLt Challengs

of lt- soniant a rigat to bayo dia nute appose on tas dencral election

b0110t In tenas both ds a ordidate for pict-Presidont and for 59E1Bct100

t0 tha l. S. Senate Another ItOM LA U. D. NUME & HORLD REPORT BON 7 JUT

1954 repartas that soustor lavor, 1000 divoRala, via 10 aluse to Iyauon

sulu une badas conatderad tor tha jou of Attorday GnaTalo

SECRET

---

## Page 7

FRagANe Fohn Monry - 1251231

JOlm FeRry FRETIAN MA graatad a COVEri DUGUrItY Approval on 28

June 1957 tO Jermit the villization DI Dis BerTICOS Inder ProjeCt LICOIN.

At the time be un o partaer in tho Jarde and leading law fire 0€

FULERICAT, CROOKER, FREZIAN, BATTS Od JAWORSKI at Moustos, Daras

eud va & frustos of the 1, De ANDIRCON Medioal Forziatiod.

СОЛК

Epast Dashlell, IL = 192574 and 15403057,04

inadat Dashigil Cockin, tro tas approved for COntaNt LOAL CALITON.

on 10 June 2953 ana una grantad & Covart Beaurity Clearansa an 4 August 1903 I0

uno do tha th so under Projnct ODICHANI, At the tim hA Una Presidetit

os suo ofl compaasas in Houston, Texass 011 Producttos kaintensuce, J00.

end Prodiation tstatencace Coniay.

HABSHAN, DoUpRan Be - 1173597

DOgiEE B. MARSHALI, VAN Erentad a Covert Becurity Approval en 29

Novanber 1958 1u sider that ho could be mada witting of Agenoy interest

1n tin cuLtiV Foundation, MARIElLI vas VICO President of the Quintona

Potraleun Corporation of louatar, Toxas stich la the holding company orned

by the tugh Hoy CULLEll readly. MARSAIL'o viSo, MagAret CulLeS MARSiAI,

Quata Culp Host vas grentid a continuing 11a1s0a claarauce on 7 Apita 2953

Then sild tha lireator of the lerieral decurity Agency. A Covert security

Approval was tasued 18 July 1951 to peruit hor use mader Profoat IFCORSIL

to nia in fundlag arrengemento throusi tas HoBEr faziation of soustas,

Iosas 01 Valch she Le Presticat, (n 26 October 1965 a Provisienal

security Approval vas tranted to porit contast, danessnent und brlariag a

MrBo HOBDY DE PreRIdent Of tha Eviny Foundation la Connection with her

possiblo utilization on an savisory counttree of a broadouating activity,

valvoraity of tho Air, afractad at the students na intallestuale of.

Cuore A Corert Esoussty Ampronil vie Lueued 31 March 2966 prinarilo to una tou

prestige of her nema end ponition as cover for 41/cuba ectivitsea und 1t!

was sot expected shat tra, illust mould take sa aotive day by day colo in

1h0 0011714168

rogative

JOBY Y1111an. Pattus, Io =$125337 md 1275074

Ovata Culy NOBEL's Bon, HIllian Fettua 803E2, Jr., bora 19 Jenuary

1932 ot Houstos, Texas, Mas sesurity approvad for costact use a 23 kay 1960.

At the tima ha sas. Ansociato Daitor of the HOUDIOR POst, Ecustod, Texas.

03 29 June 1902 he vas grantes a Corart security Maprovai to pornit hia

vitting une inder Profest CAMAliAl vasca ta ta be oupparted by tbe

SECKET

---

## Page 8

LOBBL Foundation•

On 22 OCtObEr 1965 & POSA MEE LASUAS EO HONES

for tha sana use 1a Will/cuba sotivition as that outlinad for bia sothor.

infa PraTIsiTanI aladrazoe saa taTuad Into a fayert security Approval

a 4 February 1966 fOr tha saur use.

Seren f. Hall

Attras

DEO 87 RALPARTE

somo dta 24 Not 67 (85-63356

122 2/26/67

SIX 2/19/57

2205

SECRET

---

