# 104-10291-10017

## Page 1

104-10291-10017

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUBEN/VÖLUME:

WACKENHUT CORP.

DID FILE

775805

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATIO:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEVED BX. (PRINT NANE)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFIGLA

Crds-49

NO DOCUESTS BAY BE COPIED ÓR REMOVED FRO: THIS FTLE

65803

---

## Page 2

DATE CAPITT

origer

ACTIVATION IN CLOSURE

UnIt C20s10

arin

RAIT CLOSIN

PHIL

iracuse.

REQUIRERERTS

MUNAjO

1494414.

141910700

LA

MONTHLY DENIEN

Reliy i DE D/r: 133912 мж леем

let consel

Hey! Bunax 1299)

No, north.

OGEN

сура, сово

свог

22.

и ме

tat.

quie

posed iss

C7 2702

CONFIDENE LAL

(RECORD RESPONSIVE REPORTIVE QY REVERSE SIDE)

E3, IMPDET CL. BY: PUESS?

+1 189-38-421

---

## Page 3

14-00000

*CONFIDENTIAL:

DOMESTIC COLLICTION DIVISION

NOTICE OF CASE CLOSURE

DISTIUBUTION (AS INSTED BELON

DAIS

30 June 1221

Chiefperations Services Group/OSB

DED CASE PILAINI

Branch, DCD

65805

THE VOLEN CONFOLAUNTERS ON THE AOVE CASE DUADEN, OR WHICH REQUIEMANIE WAIR FURNIENS

THE FOLLOWINO REMONIA HAVE HÉEN QUEMITICÕI

I PALE DON BEING CLONE

OXX ACTION COUPErILO

SHOULD INTONMATION

SUESKQUENTLY DE RECEIVED KEOPONSIVE TO THE REQUIINENTS OF THiS CABE. THE RESULTINS

LINDA REENDL

A QUESTIOÑS MAY DE DIRECTED TO.

Linda Reinc

- DCD, YELEPHONE.

WALKERY

DDO/IN7/5Q

DCD. Fiald Offere (check'os-appropriöe) -

, Basion.

Elleago

Dollos

Dentise

8os Angeles

XXXXXKX Mom

: Hew Yoix,

Philadelplita

pin burgh

É son francino:

Scotilo

Syracuie:

Voshippion.

C A Tell Oli

- CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

4-00000

DOM

Op..

910

LEODET

Cover anl Relnted Opérational lead/US Company Contract

with Sonatract

'OLLECTION DITIS! 19

¡ Sorvices Groupies

• 501905100-2203.

65805

20 Decmeber 1976

NE/NA/A

6C18

ATIN: 8121 Wagner

MD4-083-36564-76

Attached for your information.

E-2 IMPDET CL

, BY

006875

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

• Lifer filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DED COLLECTIONS

NUMATH

мо.

iA..

331313

032

.06

SUBJECT

COVER AND BELATED OPKRATIONAL LEAD/US COMPANT CONTRACT

VITH SONATRACH

CONTACT

I Nome:,

TaesOrgonitor.on. Addrestl

INDIVIDUAL NO.

3200

But Corporat 100

Ponce. Do

Then darleyard

KHUG

TION NO.

2

RELEASED

—NOT

MATHO

" ко0+8, ОРні

inter. *

SUSOURCE

THOO SEEO

INTERYIEN

OTHER

DOCUMENT:

DIRECTEOTO

BREENCG

FIELO COMMENTS

ТРІР НЕРОФТ

отнен (Specily below)

OFFICER

SOALMY

uri.. caft.

pride solentor

,f

"і.

stir ble

Lue

driftle agentliide

INTERNAL USE ONLY.

MAO

B=2-DHPDST GE 3Y 011668

ISCIISUALNO

88/20/37|98

$a10::0,1021631

81: 09/05

Process aheat typed in OSt/osa per

MIAMI TWX 13718

AJAJA

As it the hephit perile. Alis

ai the Gore jine:

the i1..1.

finitory

All. if:

top not.

s1.,

wail i.

(sci

:110

Aisintaus

FORM 25

OBSOLETE FREVIOUS EDITIONS

Matarazing.

DESA DEFICEH

Alay

CONFIDENTIAL

BRANCH'SECTION CHIEF

018/05B

(LE IMPOET CL BY 006697)

1U•41

3

---

## Page 6

4-0000

SECRET I6L04OZ DEC 76 SLAFF

CISE DOD/MIAMI 13718

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

DEC 17 9 15 HH 76.

TO: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP (ALMY) FROM MAINWAR ING

WHINIEL WOMACE LITERNAL USE UNLY

01R-36564÷76

SUBJEC/AREAS

COVER AND RELATED OPERMTIONAL LEAD/US COMPANY

CONTRACT WITH SONATRACH (ALGERIA>

CA. S8

BRUCE BER KMANS.

WACKE WHUT CORPURATION

3200. PONCE DE LEON BOULEVARD

WETH OF COLL:

. CERAL GABLES, FLORIDA:

INTERVIEW.

FIELD CONDENT SI

CONFIRMIG STEISONMAINARING TELECON WE RECOGNIZE

•MAI DOL S2-10 MAY PRECLUDE IMIS USE AS CURRENTLY INGERPRETED.

ICTIVITY WOULD BE CONDUCTED THROUGH A SUBSIDIARY AND INVOLVES THI

PROTECTIVE, NON-INVESTIGATORY, CLIMATE OF THE COMPANY..

1/05-B-É. WAINWAR ING

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

---

## Page 7

INTENNAL "CE CHLY

SECRET IGBOBEZ DEC 7G STAFF

CITE DEVANIATI 1SỲ19

TO: DED/HEADQUARTER S

UNINTEL/WONACE INTERNAL USE ONLY

MIAMI. 0IR÷36564-76

DEc 17. 9 IS AN *76

SUBJECTS COVER AND RELATED OPERATIONAL LEAN/US COMPANY CONTRAÇT.

WITH SONATRACH

BEF g

DOP, CASE 65825

DED:

65154

AN EXECUT KEY MORE PROFESSIONAL NICE LIGENCE OFFICER, NOX

WIFHTA MAJOR: PRIVATE

SECURITY COMPANYS

20

SENTOR OF TETALS OF THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION, MAJOR INTER-

HAT TONAL

SECIR ITY ANACER-TECTIVE ORGANIZATION,

ME IN THE FINAT

STAGES: OF NEGOTIATING A USE45 MILLION CONTRACT WISH THE ALGERIAN

RATIONAL OIL AW GAS COMPANY,

SONA TRACH.

THIS NEV CONTRACT RESULTS

FROM AN EANLIER SURVEY PERFORMED BY WACKENHUT FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF

ALGER IN.

THIS EARLTOX WORK INVOLVED STUDY OF 44 FACILITIES AND

LOCAT TONS, INGLU) ING REFINERIES, PIPELINE TEMAINALS, PORTS, O1L

AND GAS FIELDS, POVER PLANIS; LNG PLANTS, LPG PLANES, AND OTHER

CRITICAL PRODUCTION ARCAS. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS ENCOMPASSED

THE FOLLOWING:

A. EVALUATION OF THE CRITICALITY AND VULNERABILITY OF THE SITES

3, SECURITY FORCES ORCAUIZATION AN EQUIPHENT

C. SAFETY ORGANIZACIONS AND LOUIPMENT

MA INTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND EQUIPMENT

E.

iNDUSTRIAL BUNS ADD TRAUMA HOSPITALS

---

## Page 8

14-00000

FO PilYSICAL SAFEGHARDS

ACCESS CON.

N.s

NO DETECTION SYSTEMS

I. THIENDICI ION (RESPONSE SYSTEME

JO DISASTER AND ENERGENCY PLANS

NO: TRAINING REQUIREMENTS AN RESOURCES

LO. FIA.CIAL AND ADMTNTSTRATTVE ASPECIS

Mo: INSPECT LOS AND TESTING

NO. NATIONAL PROTECIION STANDARDS

O PREPARATION OF DETAILED SPECIFICAI IONS FOR A REQUEST FOR

INTERNAT LOHAL TENDER

PLANNING FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF

A NATIONAL SYSCEN OF

INDUSERTAL

SECURITY

A COPY OF THIS FIRST SURVEY CAN PROBABLY BE ACQUIRED,

CONTRACE, UNDER DISCUSSION, BUT ALMOST CERTAIN TO

BỆ CONCLUDED,

INVOLVES&

A..

THE

SERVICES. OF

NUTERUS ON-SITE MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL ADVISORY

AND TRAINING PERSONNEL.

Bo:

IDENTIFICATION VALUATION.

•DESIGNATO TENS ON SECURITY, SABLE, ONE PROPLOHUOWAN OF

ASSOCTATED EQUIPMENT.

ç..

PROVIDING ARCHITECIERAL AND: ENGINECRING PLANS FOR AN INDUSTRIAL

ENRY AU TRAUDA MOSPITAL; A

FIES DEPARTMENT,

SECURITY CONTROL

CENTER, A SAFETY INSPECTION LADERSTORY; A TRAINING INSTITUTE.

AND. AN

FQUIPMENT MAIUCENANCE FACILITY: AND THE SUBSEQUENT

CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPPING, AND OPERATION OF THESE FACILITIES.

Dio

PROVIDING DESIGN ENGIVERING PENUS FOR AN EMERGENCY COMMUNI-

CAT IONS

SYSTEM; AS WELL AS THE PROCURENENT OF EQUIPNENTY

INSTALLATION, AS CHECK-OUT OF THE SYSTEM.

FLANISHENG PRE-FABRICATED MODULAR

SIRUCIURES TO BE USED AS

INTERI FACILITIES FON

PER SO WEL

LIVING QUARTERS AS WELL AS

AND SPEAT TONS QUARTER 30.

INTEGRAL TO THESE ARRANGENEATS, IS EXTENSIVE STAGING WITH ON-

US FEISONEL WHO WILL

IN RECiLA?: CONTACT WITH SONAIRACH

OFFICIALS AI ALL LEV2L.3.

A LONDON EXECUTIVE PLACCENT COMPANY WILL

HANDLE SOME STAFP SELECTION.

CONSIDERABLE TRAINING

UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI AND

INTONNAT IONAL. UNIVERSITY (FIANIS.

THE PRECEDING VAS VOLUMIEERED FOR POSSIBLE OPERATIONA!

• COUSIDERATION ON A VERY PRELIMINANY AND NONCOMMITAL BASIS.

INPDEr CL

BY. D11553

SECR

---

## Page 9

4-00000

SECRET

Bruec Berkmans

DOWNSTE

carisit

2101.

Strench/m

1.110H

65805

13 Soptember 1976

SA/DDO

281415

ArIN: ME. Anthony Coldla

Attached for: your information.

ces Copy dent to C/LA/CARL

F-2 IMPDET CL BÝ D06875

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET SOLARGE SEP, 75 STAFF

CITE DOD/MIAMI 13518

jOi DED/HEADQUARTERS.

TOR OPÉRATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OS& (FRENCH) FROM MAINWARING

WNINTEL

SUBU, DỤD CASE 69805 - BRUCE BERKANS

REF & MAINWARING/FRENCH TELECON OF 9 SEPIEMBER 1976, SANS SURJECT

1...

FOR THE RECORD, THE PRIMARY PURPOSE FOR BRUCE

BERKEANS

REQUEST THAT I SEC

HIM WAS TO ENABLE HIM TO REFER A ROSSLOLE

APPLICANT, FOR STAFF EMPLOYMENT TO THE AGENCY:" I WLL.

INF CRAALLY

RAISE THIS MATTER WITH THE PERSONNEL REGRUITER WHEN HE IS NEXT

IN THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE.

BERKMANS HAD NO PERSONAL INTEREST

IN THIS MATTER AND WAS SIMPLY: TRYING TO PLAY THE ROLLE OF A HELPFUL

INDIVIDUAL.

BE INVOLVED IN BOTH LATIN AMERICA ANS

HE ALSO REVIEWED SOME PROJECTS THAT HIS ORGNIZATION VILL

THE MIDDLE ZAST.

AS 05

THIS DATE IT IS TO EARLY TO DETERMINE

WHETHER WE

MICHT HAVE ANY:

INTEREST IN THESE MATTERS

RIGHT NCY WE HAVE NO REPORTABLE INTEL

OR OPERATIONAL MATERIALS.

BERKMANS ALSO DISCUSSED HIS COMPANY'S APPROACH TO EXECUTIVE

PROTECTION AGAINST THE THREAT OF INTERNATIOHAL TERRORISM.

THIS:

MAY BE STILL

ANOTHER AREA IN WHICH HE MIGHT OCCASIONALLY VOLUNTEER

À USEFUL: ITEM.

A'S NOTED EAFLIER,

SINCE MIS DECISION TO REFRAIN FROM ANY

LITIGATION INVOLVING THE AGENCY; HE SEEMS TOTALLY RELAXED

PERSONAL APPRAISAL NONIS THAT HE WILL POSE NO PROBLEMS FOS-US

IN THE FUTURE DESPITE THE UNPLEASANTNESS OF A FEW YEARS AGO

IMPDET, CL BY E1!668

S

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

2268

BOUT LiL

15734

29. JUNs 1976

2830..

DỌO/MIAMI

FROM! DOD RZADQUARTERS (OSC/TRENCH)

BUNJECT!

CASR 63003

• 4)

pep and 29580-25 run: 1970

MATINARIAC/TRINCH PHONBOON OF 29 JUNE

MIR ASSISTANT CANERAL COUNSEL FOR THE DAO TORSEES NO PROBLE DI

ACCROING TO DRUCE BERNAYS* ARQUEST POR ANORIA MENTICE, LA FACT, 1Y:

MAY HELP DETUSE THE SITUATION. ALLS FUTURE. REQUESTS OR THIS NATURE

SHOULD BE REPORTED TO SEE MEANERS ME ME ME CANDIE ON A CASE

BY CASE BASIS.

B-2- IMPDET CLBY 006873

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00001

SFCRET

CASE 65809

DON=

CMICION

Opcrniloii's

Foddzö

Ircup/OSB

:? !!

"eträ

JFTench/v

offico

ot Inspocror

Ceneral - 2E24 HQS.

?ET

& July 1976

rAcached for you?

Informettoo.

Сой.

copy aent to

SA/DDO

LA/CAR

E-? IMPDET CL, BY 006875 :

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET OZISUZ JUL 16 STAFF

CITE DED/MIAMI 15398

TOS DED/HEADQUARIERS.

ATTN$

OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP FRISCH

SUBUS CASE 65805

REF 8

DCD/ HEADQUARTERS: 19734

3 09 PM 76.

IMMEDIATELY

HE REITERATED WHAT HE

HAD ALREADY TOLD KO ON THE TELEPHONES

ÄFTER CONSULTATIONS WITH HIS ATTORNEY SO CONSIDERABIE REFLECTION

HE HAS DECIDED THAT ME WILL NOT SUE INE LEONCY OR ANY STANFERS:

OR. FORMER STAFFERS.

HE ATTRIBUTES ThIS

DECISION TO WHAT NEX

CALLED THE INORDINATE COSTS IN BOTH TIME LEO MONEY

HE ALSO

VOLUNTEERED HIS FEELING THAT THE AGZUST LOS BEING KICKED FROM

EVERY SIDE AND HE DIU NOT WISH TO ADD TO THE PROBLEM.

2.

BERKMANS WAS CONSIDERABLY MORE @SOSED AND RELAXED AT

THIS

SECOND MEETING ALMOST AS

IF

HE SEE RELIEVED AT FINALLY HAVING

COME

TO A DECISION:

HE THEN REPEATTE LAST EPPEARS NOW TO BE A.

SINCERE OFFER TO ACT ON A VOLUNTARY 34515 AND IN A NONOPERATIONAL

• CAPACITY AS A NORMAL DOD CONTACT:

HE FESTIONED

VOLUNTARILY THAT

HE HAD SOUGHT

AND OBTAINED THE CONSENT OF HIS BOSS GEORGE

HAC KENHUS

IN

THIS RESPECT.

-THERE

IS NO DOUBT THAT BERKIRIS IS INVOLVED IN VARIOUS

FOREIGN PROJECIS WHICH COULD BE OF

EDITIONAL

INTEREST

I WAS,

REGARD TO HIS OFFER.

TO HIS DOES DELIBERATOUE MAGLE

HED DONCOMMITTAL WITH

RELAT LONSHIP

AHAN I MIGHT, WAVE BEEN

A HANG EVEN DESE

JARY OF SOME SORT OF

PURELY ON OUR FIRST

INTERVTEWS

IN ANY EVENT THERE

IS 50 DEVEI

THAT WE WIL HEAR

FROM BRUCE BERKMANS AGAIN. EZ IMPOSE.

31 011668

SECREI.

---

## Page 14

14-0000

DCD Case 65805

Jon French

DOLESEIC COLE UTION DIVISION

Crows/üS3

LA/ CAB

Lloyd Burdett -3 8 4402 Ba.

Case 65805

2 July 1976.

CE: SA/DDO

Attached for your Information 1s

a copy of Mant TVX 13387.

É-2 IMPDET CL. BY 006875

---

## Page 15

4.00000

Jin 29

SECRET 291430Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE DOD/MIAMI 13387.

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTER'S

ATTN&

OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP (FRENCH)

SUBJ?

DED CASE 66885 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF

MACKENHUI CORPORATION OFFICER

, FYI, BRUCE BERMANS TELEPHONED ME AT MY HOME LATE ON

2:8 JUNE 1976 TO TELL ME IHAT AFTER CONSULIATIONS WITH

HIS AITORNEY ME HAS DECIDED NOT TO SUE THE AGENCY.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

---

## Page 16

4-00000

_CONFIDENTIAL

• SECRET

CIA DOD REQUIREMENT CONTROL SHEET

OCO CASE tO

INITIATOR

MENNA RENT

SERIAL AUDANIA

DATE DRIMATRIM

290.

3' 10

12?

5

6 6 5|2

016 51

18.

SUBJECT OR ALQUIREMENT

Requeat for contact: Wackenhut Corporacion

ROUTiNG

DATE

1. 0G/French.

7C1 A 760449/0/6/23/612

ININALS

CATEGORY OF REQUIREMENT. (00

TO - ECONOMIC

1 - SCIENTIFIE AND TECHNICAL

- SVICONTROLCASE DESK

2-POLITICAL

3-MILITARY:

OCD ACTION ON REQUIREMENT (Dest Officer chockies.

richeck one

S- SOCIOLOGICAL

- BIOGRABHIC

- MISCELLANEOUS

OB.

tremeat u accepted for action, under the above DeD case number, on the foltowing baste:

Tus bear forwerded to the field. (Specify, under "Remark"

02

Capability is known or believed to exist.

Capability is uncertain; but field resources suggest possiblity of colicction.

03:

No capability is believed to exist at present; but requirement will be used if capabilly develops;

It sil do retained at headquarters.

01.

The held is already alert to the need and will continue to report as information is obtained.

Sources capable of at least partial fulfilment may become available; requisemient will be drawn upon for their

guidánce.

[ ll. ¡ Requirement is not accepted for action, for reasons given under "Remarks." It

information and use il opportunity develops.

U Ill. Decision is deferied, for reasons given under "Remarks," pending:

ĐA.

Further discussion.

Inistration of other collection potential.

Dc. livigation of other customer interest.

Rense (by originator) of latest information, including réport(s)

DE.

Furtber development of the requirement.

will/will not l be retained for

REMARKS

DATE

19.976

SIGNATURE

OF DCD DESK OFFICER

COPY # 1 - RETAINED BY DESK OFFICER

FORM 3734

10-74

MFG 12-74

_CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

Classifiod by 006687. Exempt from ganoral

deciassification achodula

of E.O.

11662.

xamption carogory 5812), Impossibio-de

exormina dato of cutomatic doclassitterlor

120-3%)

---

## Page 17

14-00001

23 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: DCD/OSB

ATTENTION: Mr. Jon French

SUBJECT

• Contaçt with Former Staff Agent

This will confirm our steen line tolephone

conversation of 22 Juno 1976 concerntog à

recommendat ton

that,

pCp contact My Bruce Beckmanse

(201-309117),

antormer

staff ngent

under. the LpeLOBl program.

perctians: recently

reicphoned an Agency staff offleer with

whom he is acquainted

inezcating that

of interest and needed to talk with somc one from the

Agency

Mr.

Berckmans

is currently employed bý the

wackenhut Corporation

in the Miami arça.

We discussed this case with Mr. Anthony Goldin,

issistant General Counsel/Duo, who fclt that a

representa

tive

of the Agency should meot with Mr. Berckmans

to see

what he had on his mind.

Mr. Coldin said we would not

be in violation of any Agency regulations or

guide.linos

since Mr.

Berekwans was-the one requesting the mecting.

Mr. Göldin

recommended that contact be made through an

overt employce (DCD) rather than through the LA/Miami

Station.

Upon learning of your two immediate intel reports

on 22 Junc,

private investigator sources,

concerning

plans for possible assassination of Caribhean leaders, wo

felt there may be a

connection betwcen

these reports and

MI. Berckmans!

information

for that reason

suggested that DCD might want to, move rapidly on this

matter

address is 3941

smen mentioned on the free, liot

Mr.

Berckmans,

Fiorida; his telephone

в. Витей

Lloyd

Burnett

C/ LA/CAR/CARI

E2 IMPDET

CL. by 012913

SIGNET

---

## Page 18

14-00000

. 23 June 1976

MEMORANDÜM FOR: DED/ÖSB

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Mr. Jon French

: Contact with Former Staff Agent

This will confirm our green line telephone:

conversation of 22 June 1976 concerring a recommendation

contact Mi

Bruce berckmans. sta

(202-30911715

Borskaans recently telephoned an Asency staff, officer wit

of interest and needed to talk with some one from the

Agency:

Mr.

Barckmans is curtently employed be ther

Wackenhut Corporatton in the Miami area.

he discussed this case with Mr. Anthony Coldin,

Assistant General Counsel/DDO, who felt that a representa-

tive of the Ngency should meet with Mr. Berckmung t sco

what he had on his mind.

Mr. Goldin said we would not

be in violation of any Agency regulations or guidelines:

since Mi. Berckmans was the one requesting the meeting.

Mr. Goldin recommended that contact be made through an.

overt employee (DCD) rather than through the La/Miami

Upon learning of your two imnediate intel reports

on 22 June,

from private investigator

plans for possible assassination of Caribbean

sources leaders,

concerning

we

felt there may be

a connection between these reports and

Mr. Berckmans®

information

for that

that.

we sussested that DeD might want to move rapidly on this

As mentioned on the green line,

Mr. Berckmans!

address is

number is (arca

Code 3o5) 145-2260.

Miami, Florida; his telephone.

Lloyd. C.. Burnett

C/LA/CAR/CARI

SB07

F2 IMPDET

CL by 012913

---

## Page 19

14-00000

no probl

hip deface

Al not reputa be

x 55509 de

2314007

OGe DDO

sile

denser g

soluted yo

O/s

trail

C800

conf

Tate tod

; on inter

---

## Page 20

SECRET 231445Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE DOD/MIAMI 13374

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS

ATTIS OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSS FRENCHO FROM MALANARHING

SUBS& CASE

63803

LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF

HACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER

REP & DED/CADQUARTERS 1S60S

AN FEELING BRUCE BERCKHANS

IT VACKENHUT OFFICES

TO THE MEETING

- TO KIOU SORETHING OF THE C IYOUNSTALCES UNDER YIEO:

THE FINAL STATEMENT. IN PARAGRAPH ONE OF REFERENT.

BY: 0116680

SECRET

232

Тон Ро м

---

## Page 21

SECRET CALADOZ SUN 76 STAT

CATE DEB/MLANt 13371

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS

INFO

A7748-098 TFRENOHT

SUBUY CASE SYBUS

REP 8 : DOD/HEADQUARTERS 13603

F.YBAT

TRULE

I MET BRUCE BERCKMANS AT HIS WACKENHUI OFFICE THIS

MORMINO AS SCHEDULED).

BERCKMANS BEGAN THE INTERVIEN BY

REQUEST ING THAT I READ A MULTIPAGE LETTER WHICH HE IS THINXIMO

OF SENDING TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL:

IT IS A DETAILED

STATEMENT OF GRIEVANCES STEMMING FROM NIS FORCED RESIGNAT 100

INDICATES THAT HE 18 CONSIDER INBA SUIT AGAINST THE AGENCY

HE HAS IN FACT RETAINED COUNCILE APPARENTLY ANOTHER FORMER

ENCY STAFFERO BUT THEY HAVE NOT YETEDECIDED WHETHER TO S

PROSEED WITH LEGAL ACTION ÖTHER ELEMENTS SHOULD PROBABLY BE

I ORMED:

FORGO SAY TRE FRAT GO SOME ON CEO ON Of TE

UNITED STATEST OFFERED TO SERVE, AS

FAIRLY IN ICN

COLTACT WITH RESPECT

TO THEAT

HE OR

GIDER HI

REGULAR HACKENHUT DUT LES:

ES

IN HIS

BERC

HAS NAI

LE CONTACTS ESPECIALLE IN

IN AMERICA

THE MIDDLE EASTO

UND FRE NORMAL

FUSES

INFORMATIONAL: RELAT TONSWAPO

I TOLD. BEROKMANS,

HOMEVER" THAT IN VIEW ORTH

CIRCUMSTANCES: DEEDIBEI

IN PARAGRAPHAL

ABOVE TETATT

INAPPROPR TATE. FOR US TO MAINTAIN ANY SYSTEHAT IC RELAT TONSHIP

AT THIS TIMES

ButT

SHOULD HE DECIDE NOT TO PROCEED WITH HIS

AND

OTHER THINGS FALL

INTO PLACE, PERHAPS A FUTURE

USBRU, CONTACT

COULD BE ESTABLISHED.

PIECE Of

IN DESCRIBING

HIS DUT IES BERCHHANS DID DROP

INFORMAT TOW

WHICH MIGHT

ONE WINGI

• USEr. di

AGAINST THE CURRENT

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMS 13377

SECRET

JAMAICAN

SITUATION.

THROUGH A SUSCONIRACTOR HIS COMPANY iS

CONSIDERING A CONTRACT IN JAMAICA WHICH WOULD PROVIDE

CUST OD IAL

COMPANY

IS APPARENTE PRAVING TO HOT WALLY CS MAPSET CE

IMPDET CL

BY 011668.

S

ECRET

5. FILE

DIR 726

---

## Page 22

BECKET

2268

PRIORITY

22 JUKE

15603

1100*

1

ICO/0

DED/HRADQUA

THIS CASESIS RESPONSIVE: TO REQUIREMENT CONTROL NUMBER CPLA

AND OBLECTIVELY

FOULSTAR DED ASSISTANCE

0 1120082

CAMANS TRE

•DARPOTOR OF EITTURNATIONAL OFFRATT

CORPORATION, COW RULES, MAY L DIVISION PROVIND TIE TOL PERIO

BEROIMINS

OL CONY DYN ON MOLO NIACO MOLIO DON KOMON CAROLY BE ADORES

2O THROUGH AN LA DIVISION OFFICER, TOM CLOTS, BERCIANS NAS

REQUESTED CONTACT LOT AN AONY REPIEOEMATIVE AS IN LAS, LIPORATION

USED DO VACRLITATE COMET UNT BERCHANE. LA DIVISION HAS MQUATIO

PATTON DI POLITICAL DEVELOREINTO DA JUNICA

A DIVISION HAS PPARED MAT THIS QUEST IS ON? DINSPONSE

TO BRICORNS REQUEST FOR COMRACT WITH THE AGOICE. LA DIVISION RAS NOT

ORDAIONAL EAGLET MA BERCONIA NOR IS COMPART, ONIO, OF COTIME

• COUASEL LAS CONCURRED IN CONTACTINE BURGOYAS BY DED MAYA

---

