# 104-10177-10206

## Page 1

1'4-00000

104-10177-10206

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SHINOT COMIND O% ASSAG606A06 GIAN 11005

_ 2C1 25 780%

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATIOV:

958: 1997

LSN/1SR

CELETIONS, IF AVY:

THUR ARENCY DOCUMENTS

DATI

RECEIVEL

ПЛІТ

RETURN

-856

REVIEWED BY

(PRINT NNIE)

to rakeatt

STONATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CIA MISTUGCAL

NO PUCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED CE REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

MEROLA.

Josenh

201-257804

201 an 20rsee

---

## Page 2

FBI DOCUMENTS:

DATE: 1 OCTOBER 1959

SUEJECT: CAFIEBEAN POLITICHI, SCTIVITIES = CUBA

CLASSIFICATION:

FILE. #: NONE GIVEN

DATF: 1 JU.E 2959

SUBJECT:

RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA

CLASSIFICATION: • SECHET

FILE É: MINI 57-261 BUREAU 105-75663

---

## Page 3

14-00000

AGENCY DOCUMENT CONTATNING FBI INFORIATION

DATE:

16 JUNE 1959

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FBI REPORTS:

11 MARCH 1959

SUBJECT:

PANAVANIAY RETOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES"

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS-PANNA

FBI FILE 3: 109-12-225 (BUREAU)

30 SEPTEMBER 195S

SUBJECT:

JOSEPH NEROLA; B. LEONARD BIRD:

ROBERT DILLARD:

UNKNOWN PILOT

FBI FILE 8:

97-230 (MIANI)

---

## Page 4

1.00000

•...

miantiniano

FEI DOCUMENT

1 JUNF.

• 1959

SUBJECT:

RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA

CLASSIFICATION: NONE:

FILE,:

Mv 97-261

---

## Page 5

14-0000

DEPT OF ARMY DOCUMENT

13 MAY 1959

SUST CATON? MORE (50 7033-1) (C)

ClASSIFICATION:

FILE #:

ACSI -CO

* 5.

---

## Page 6

4-00000

FBI DOCURENTS (SOME NOT COMPLETE)

DATE: 22 APRIL 1959

SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLTIONARY ACTIVITIES

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATIERS - PANAMA

CLASSIFICATION:

NONE:

FILE:

109-12-223

SUBJECT? ARRAMA IAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA

CLASSIFICATION:

NONE

FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 20 APRIL 1959

SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTTONARY ACTIVITIES

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA

CLASSIFICATION:

NONE

FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 17 APRIL 1959

SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA

FILE: 3.09-12-223

CLASSIFICATION: NONE

DATE: 10 APRIL 1959

SUEJECT:

PANAMANGA REVOLUTIONARY ACTHIVITIES

FOREIGN POLITICAL, MATTERS - CUBA

CLASSIFICATION: NONE®

FILE #: 109-12-223

DATE: 2 April 1959

SUB-JECT :

PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

FOREIGI POLITICAL MATTER - PALLAMA

CLASSIFICATION:

NONE

FIBLE:

SAC, MIAMI (107-43)

DATE: 5 MARCH 1959

SUFLECT:

PANAMANIAN REVOLUTICNARY ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - PANAMA

CLASSIFICATION:

NONE

FTIF:

100-12-223

---

## Page 7

14-00000

LE ERAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY R

WASHINGTON, D.C.

OGC 77-2335

11 april 1977

DariaN. Curry, Ess.

First Assistant U.S. Altorney

l'asiern District of Pennsylvania

633 U.S. Post Office and Courthouse

Pitisburgh, Ponnsylvania 15219-

Dear Mr. Curry:

Re: Jeseph Raymond Merola

• In response to your letter of March 10, 1977 I wish to advise you

thas the Central Intelligence Agency had one meeting with Josenh Raymond

Merola prior to August 1961. In late 1960 Joseph Rayreond Merola nade

several telephone calls to a CLA office offering his assistance in a general

way in connection with Cuban matters, which was refused. However, on

6 Fecruary 19ó1 Merola claimed to have information on a Latin American

senator who was a "close friend and corfidant" of "Che" Guevera. Since

Guevera was listed as being the subject of foreign inielligence requirements.

the ClA employee agreed to meet with Mr. Merola: The meeting tock place on

6 February 196l and is the only merting with Merola prior to his incarceration

which you stated in your letter began in August 1961.

Air. Merola was not employed by the Central Intelligence Agency. His

contact with the ClA could not be described as an undercover Governsent

informant as alleged in the Writs of Error Coram Nobis by Victor Carlucci .

and Daniel Hanna. This one contact on 6 February 196l by Merola with the

CiA was voluntary on his part.

Mathew MeVane, an employee of the ClA, did testity in San Diego in

November 1975 concerning Chi contacts with Joseph Raymond Merola, T're

citation we have for that case is U.S.%. Dalion C. Smith, cl al. in tre

U.S. District Court for the Southern Disa'ict of California, No. 7:-2277-GT.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

The distimony given in that trial is not inconsision: with the response glven

above. It is true that after Merola was released from prison bu again

volunteered information lo the ClA. Merola was i valuntary source of foreign

intelligence.

I hope this provides sufficient information for you to file your response.

If not, please call me at (AC 703) 351-7531.

Sincerely,

sK Aroney

Associate General Counsel

cc: John Martin, Esq., Dept. of Justice

meriterat

---

## Page 9

UNCLASSIFIED

DISE OM:

SE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT, (Operamo!)

Joseph Raymond Merola

FROM.

Maurice A. Sovern

0/ SA/DO/0

2D0109

TO. (Office dougnatas, 100m

abor, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORMARDEO

i. Mr. Raymond Warren

C/ LA

362012 Hqs.

1'1 APi. lil

ON

154.2

OLFICERS

INITIALS

NO

DATE

CO! DENTIAL

SECRET

8 April 1977

och commons to sham from ut

MMENT a occasi columna do coes commo

2.

11 АРП .

1318

,41

. 1.

3.

Zile - 201

12.

Indi

610 days

SECRET

• CONFICENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 10

4-00000

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

LTIGATION

8 April 1977

MEMORINDUM FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Mr. John K. Greancy

Special Assistant

to the

General Counsel

Maurice 1. Sovern

0/SA/DO/0

Joseph R. Merola

• Assistant United States Attorney

Pennsylvania Letter, 10 March 1977,

Subject as Above

The question in reference is the nature of

any involvement of Merola with CIA prior to

August 1961.

2.

The Directorate's first recorded

with Joseph Raymond Merola prior

to August 1961ct

occurred on 6 February 1961.

It followed a series

¿elephone calls over a period of

several

months

(late

1960 - early 1961) in which Merola had

expressed. interest in offering his assistance in

connection with Cubar matters.

Our officer had

declined contact until 6 February. when Merola

claimed to have

information on a Latin American

senator who was a "close friend and confidante"

of "Che" Guevera. Because Guevera was the proper

subject of foreign positive intelligence collection

requirement our officer agreed to a meeting.

The last recorded contact, except for the

litigation outlined below, with Merola was a tele-

contact with Merolà

in late Juiy 1975 when

he volunteered additional foreign positive intel-

ligence.

contacted a

•At the end of August 1975, Merola

staff officer to

for testimony in

the criminal fraud trial in San Diceothern Districe

Merola, et al

of carolio, che 74-2277 GT) which we subsequently.

E2 IMPDET

CL RY 012860

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

---

## Page 11

14-00000

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

provided on 13 November 1975.

5.

Subject is characterized as a voluntary

occasional

source of foreign positive intelligence

who sas in sporadic cortact with us.

We greatly appreciate the Assistant United

States Attorney's concern for the confidentiality

of our information. The information above may be

nade available. to the AlSA and the court as

appropriate without further restriction.

Maurice A. Sovern

0/SA/DO/0:MASovern:kaw : (1542)

Distribution

Orig

1 - OGC

C/DCD

2

C/LA

- SA/DO/0

• 2

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

---

## Page 12

14-00000

PEPLY REQUESTED

SPEED LETTER

LETTIO

TO

ATTN:

1. R04:

Merela-kreisation

ISS/PICG MenD did 17

terer 197?

A revien or the fiies concions that tho

220 bas not 1n

any way invoired operetionali!

with joseph Ra Merola prior a 1901.

rowever; it soonid be noted that subsecuent to his release froz

prison in torager l9o2,

Verole

tas

in contact ritineriots of

the Fronic Levoluidonario denasratico, an

anti- castre

• of interest to

this Agency.

organitation.

DATE

REPLY

1891

---

## Page 13

14-00000

i6..

atartwae

fi.ir.

--------

!rio tEX

IFc'PiCi

iiicao +8y4533 +595 10-24- 22)

=.

= -::

iCUT

titgenior.

iaie:'"

i..

An1C:"

prigrndoaa

143'

'to.

•Esr

37 turcti

1?77

kti"

cr-meni "e.

soae onreieerd emen Ce se eere"

Di'e vin

SA/LA/SICO

Fi - 3

iide.

3: 131

Cra/ees

3ле: The mersice

fils no changed. ts

Mas. When you're

pou2

cace astit

in RE(ri) and

cances viny clisge,

presa.

Маннее.

i 2.

13.

i.i. Frérie ii

iddicatin in lilEtre

iriecintin in!

:--edadllllfürni

ecele dieie n35 ene

prtiá it co ai fariy

iwia de dlecetirenisia

jitiiine

Mabin:i:

peinanilemintrne"

l;' t'ria!.

i!g ":

s=1

i4!Efte1

W>:

w%.ty

---

## Page 14

14-00000

COMFIE SATIAL

17 March 1977

NEMORANDUM FOR:

SA/LA/EICO

DED

FROM

SUBJECT

:

Frederic McCann

ISS/PICG

Litigation: Joseph R. Nerola

Attached herewith is an unclassified memorandum

received from

OGC which

requests information

on the "extent

nature of any involvement of (Joseph R.) Merola with

federal agencies prior to August 1961".

A revier of 201-257804 reveals that Mr. Verola nay

been

contact wich fil/Miami in 1961 and was in contact

DCD prior to 1961:

3.

Please review your files and provide whatever

information is

pertinent to

paragraph i.,

above.

information will be

released outside of CIA without your

concurrence.

4..

201-257804 is attached to the SA/LA/EICO copy of

this

merorandum.

Please return it with your reply by

i April 19:7.

nute flam

Frederic McCann

• Attachments:

als

CCNSICCNTIAL

---

## Page 15

4.00000

DEPT OF JISTICE DOCUVENT

SUBJECT :

JOSTPE PAYYOYD MEROLA

DATZ:

10 MARCE 1917

CLASSIFICATIO%:

WOXE

FILE: NONE

---

## Page 16

14-00000

trist, "artirely enzaped in the sena

nitions Commities

said Mera's ma

Merine:, another of those cunicind

of the Maicagaio Surgiazi. Martines

and Mana, said ise prosersions, He

let 1. Trie sauna tal Daniei Ji Sar

diT, toon Mettis was a zobemmeri

Edy el plus eltare and in oiher sals.

ajent aid inerecte perpertien y

Casiro mures.

traud upon ine insi orir."

"Jot's placa un Misi Beach was on

Trieinnur and jrider are sow led.

the water and it me; used by ant-Cis

cal jages la Pilesecaza and have no

ero groups lo sta-dile erms to Cuba,"

commenied about ise accon fied ty

this source said. "Martiner was one of

Grown, which is stili pending. But 2a

shem."

Dincial lamular mies their pösitiva

"I can't recall" Martines said,,

said the say judges til, if decensary. - when asled by.

Tie Sulielin situt

sHear they diùl Dos sos bleroia was a

using Merula's duit "Really, I can't

government agen

sell you arthung about it.

Cuban Connectioni

"He was corsired with helping

people here in Migra agarist the die-

"The anster lo this ahole thing te

tatorship of Bassia He might tave

roives arouad Cuba:" said this off.-

been in some other branch that I don't

• cial.

know about."

Grees,

…:?.

woo represents Manrarino's

Altredo

Borges.

3 Midtri business

son-in-law, said be didn't thins Ma

consultant and a Bay of Pigs veteran,

- rola's testimony la Chicago had bees

told a

Bulletin

reporter

inquiring

particularly "heiph!" co tneiprese

about Nerola to "picase arie me a

cution. A "pore logical assuraption"

is that Meroia was fired from prises

lerter."

"I don't know ato you aic." Borges

because of ahar be muld do for-une

said "I cannot-tais over ite rela

govemident ir Cuta, be said.

phone."

"This goy works anythere he wants

One investigator inierested in Ma

80," said Green. "The governmer: has :

rola said the mañer is

"very senst

protecied hl.a in Calkernia,

Chicago-1

tive, records are hard to come by."

and every there else. He sall has to be

"He seems to tii everytbing." this

of value to lé goverassear"

investigator said.

"He's a pilot, he

One thinz is certain: Merola is well

speaks Spanish, he tors Cuba aod

known in the Miaral Cuban comat

Le's connected. But nocody manis to

•nity and among those who have been

coopergie.

linked to alleged Castro assassinatica

attemos.

A Scared Man

i "Joe was an underover agect, he

Records indeed are hard to come

was closely astacisied with the gov.

py. Oificial and unoticial attempes to

crament,"

Frark Sturgis; of Mismi,

coiain completa reards of Meroia's

told The Dulietin. "He did have an as.

arrests proved fruities So dil ellass

sociation with cc CLA."

to determine wins: encounters le

sturgis, wto gaired nocriety as cre

might have had wial cificials respon

of those conviced in the Watergal

=ble 10r"

watching the nation's bor-

- burglary, was a lon Castro Lieutesant

during the revalusioni ata seried as a

But despite the Selit of some tha?

double agent for the ClA. He later

• Mercia enjoys the projecton of li.

worked agais Castio in the suy of.

goremment while at che same time

ing to kill Castra

revolutionaries".

i know Joe was Loveted with te

arie.

said Sturgis.

know he had an associaton mih the.

CIA, bue berguse

cf

mentalizasion,

comaLT.

they ri dong You coat too that

Tied to Burglar

I source ciose lo ite Roose lecassi.

core Florida

acquaiance.

Know where he geis in sui he's an

tarter and they baie informers. The

=17 :s concerned.

"He goes around Dace (County).

ti he is very, very cartlul where be

fits. joe is scarnd."

2

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SUBjECT: COute Appearasca oa 13 Ioveader 1915, Sia Diego, Califonis

2o On 13 Euramber 1975, "air Machine appeared as is witness for the

defease at the Talled Sestes Diszzict Court ior the Southern Distriet of

Californis, 325 liest E Street, Saa Diego, Calliomia.

The case way the

ünited States of huerica l. Dalion C. Saith, at al.

MacVane was called

to testify by i. Mac Asos jr., accorney for daiendant Joe ferola.

honor uf the subicens l'aclane appeared at the. court.

On 13 November 1975

at approxisabely 15:30 bours Sia Diego ti== "acvace vas called to cha

witness staçda

2. Kac ArOs, artörcey for dafendant Jue Nerola began questioning

after Maclane vas siors la as a sitness.

•Azos asked how long MacVane

•had-beea employed by the CIA? - de asked if MacVare knew defendant Merola?

He-asked if MisTase sete cold' ty Merola about a shipment of surplus

helicopter paras galez to che country of El Salvador?

He asked MacVane

If Merola had volmseered orbes inforsation to the Agency? He chen asked

If Merola vera ever paid for such laforcation? Mos also tried tu establish

the value of surplus paris in Latin Aserica compared co the US. This vas

objected to by actorsey iobert Taller, prosecutor in the case. The judze

sustained the osjeriion and Yaclaze did not luve to anster the question.

Anos finished his questionlag and Thaller begai a short cross examination.

Thaller asied 15 Miciase ever beard Merola =ention stocks?

He also asked

if Macvane ines the sane of cha carporacion that Merola represented?

He

then pointed out: last eves lf. sue stock fraud were occurriaz, MacVane

would not be alizinz baczuse Maciane vas nor an investigitor,

but rather

a. collectu. of foreiga i-forration.

The cross examination then ended.

All questions sere assuered to cha best of NacVane's abillty and knowledge.

- 3. There appeared to be litalé purpose la tne appearance of MacVane

because 1t has airicus tsat Vactase knes nothiaz of any value concerning

the case.

Maciase's coral tide on the vitness stald was about 10 minutes.

After completica iá his rescioozy Maclane was released.

8, MCMac Vane: 1jh

EZ LIPDET CL 57 CLISSA

83

Bay U.S. Sarings Bands Kigzary or The Pascall Savings Plai

50

CHOT FROREOT

• DISTRICT JUDJE

---

## Page 18

14-00000

TO

8101.8001F34D

LUSSPIDISTIIL

L--

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

MANE ATO LOURESS -

life Danus

DATE

6/4:11

112. Yuung

z

LTEX

I APPROVAL

COMMENT

• COMEURREMCE

DINCT REPLY

I SILE

• ЗАГОЯМАПОЯ

Remarks:

Amy visite of the

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMEMDATION

• RETURA

SIGNATVRE

FOLO MERE TO RETURN TO SENUER

FROM: MAOR DOOREXS ANO PHONE NO

4414455

OATi

SECRET

140;

кан на 237

1-87

---

## Page 19

14-00000

ECRET

6 November 1975

HEMO FOR RECORD:

RE:

HEROLA,

joseph R.

201-257804

U.S. Cltizen Registered to DEA/MIAMI DeC 74

FYI:

Today,

Randy Daugherty, DCD case officer,

asked to borrow subject 201 because he

wanted to take it to Office of Genl. Counsel

for Mr. John Greany.

There is to be a meeting today between

Mr. Greany, Bob Starling, DCD COPS, and

Matt McVane, DCD man in Miami who is

visiting Hqs. Melane has an interest

in MEROLA.

Told Randy that MEROLA was DEA source and that

matter should

be coordinated with NARCOG.

This transpired during lunch hour - Randy was

He said he would

L.

SECRET

---

## Page 20

14-00000

OGC 75-1073

5 November 1975

!

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

Ug' 1: On. 3 November I talked to Mr. Malt MeVane, DCD officer

stationed in Miami, and he said that he had received the subpoena

§tom.E: Mac Amos, Jr, to appear as a defense witness ir the srial in

- San Diego on i November:= Mr. McVane agreed to come to Headquarters

• on 6 November to discuss the information in the files and Mr. Robert

Starling of DCD agreed to join in the meeting. 'Mr. NeVane told me

tbat Le. Colonel Douglas W. Haldane, whu had previously been on

detail to the DCD Miami Office, had returned to the Army and was

currently assigned somcwhere in Europe and that his address was

Headquarters, USARSUR, APO New Yori, New York 09403:

:2.. Since this Office had received a letter from Mr. Amos with a

request for the current address of Colonel Haldane, I called Mr. Amos

on. 1 November and explained to him that Colonel Haidane was no longer

with the Central Intelligence Agenry and it was our understanding inat

Colonel Haliane was stationed in Europe. Air. Amos did not want the

current address ci Colurel Haidane- lie did state, however, that Mr.

McVane would not be needed in San Diego until Wednesday morning.

12 November. As things stood now. Mr. Merola was the tifth defendant

and it wouid be that length of ame betore Mr. McVane's ter smony would

be needed.

3. Mr. Mclane told ine that he had been called by Mr. Rubert

Thaler of the U.S. Attornay's Office In California, liold Mr. Melane

thas l would contace dr. Thaler. I called Mr. Thales nho is a a raember

of the Organized Crime juria Force, Departnent of Justico, Room 2307.

300 Norih Los Anyoles Sireer, Los Angeles, Califurnia 90012. telephone

No. (AC 213) 688-5808. No. Thaier was piessed so hoar chae la. Mclane

---

## Page 21

14-00000

was being made available to restify and explained thi: he thought Mr.

Amos had aircady prepared a mution lo dississ il ils. ileVane was lo be

denied as a ritness for the defense. I expired io dr. Thaler that Mr.

Mclane was coning lo Headquarters on Thurscay, 6 November, and said

that we would call him to discuss the rule lis. l'eVane played in receiving

information from Mr. Merola.

4. If this case runs parallel to many criminal prosecutions, the

defense may never put Mr. MeVane on the siand when he actually sirows

up as this may prove detrimental to their desense. However, we should

be prepared for his testimony il, in fact, it does take place..

*ani moistatis

ciste General Counsel

DCD

pipis,

Distribution. : 1-91911

Original - OGG SUBJ: : LITIGATION GRINNAL

JKG Signer-

1- Chrono...s

kinGsie: +4 23868219507701392

stares :

229=.

FiGEt time

Tinier.

---

## Page 22

4-00000

John I toil

John Shrgood Fhoscos

Marnson A Hartmood

Dougiss A Faynorcs

Dand We Ault

Michaod i Nail

Dan t. Doupray

Themas Hi Auls.

E Mac Amos jr.

Thomas Mi Oymott

HOLT. RHOADES AND HOLLYWCOD

A AMDIISSIONAL COTRORANDN

ATTORNEYS AT LAM

1010 SeCOnO doRMuR. BUITE 17.3

SAN DIECO. CALFORVLA 92101

o'aphono 2389-17

October 28, 19.75

Office of: the General Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington..D.C.

20505

... :.:

• siste

Dear Sir::

• Our firm represents Mr. Joseph Merola who is

presently on trial as a defendant in the Southern

District of California in an action entitled United

States of America v.

Dalton C.

Saita, et al. (No. 74-2277-

GT) •

In order to properly deferd MI. Merola, we

reed to

utilize the

testimony of Mi. Matt MeVane and

possibly the

testimony of Col.

Douglas Haldane.

We understand that

Mr.: McVane is. employed by the Central Intelligence Agercy

and works out of the Miami office.

ve also understard

that Col: Douglas Haldane is employed by the Central

Intelligence Agency but ie do not have an address for

service upon Col. Haldane.

•Enclosed you will find copies of Subpoenas

issued for Mr. MeVane: and Col. Baldane.

These Subpoenas

require the attendance of the individuals in the Southern

District of California at San Diego, California on

November 1l. 1975 at 9:00 a:a.

Enclosed you will also

find a copy of the Order signed by Judge Gordon Thompson

authorizing the issuance oi the Subcoena for Mr. Mcvane.

Since we do not have an addiess for Col. Haldane at

this tine, the court has not approved the issuance of

a Subpoeria: for him in which the government would be

responsible for all of the expenses and costs.

is necessary for him to obtain the approval of your office

before he caritestify in this matter.

decordingly, we

request thas he be granted the necessary approval in

order to allow him to testify in 213 matter.

In addition,

wo request taut we be provided dith an address for

col. Haldare and that he also be alioved to costit! in

---

## Page 23

14-00000

Office st the

General Counsel

October 28, 1975

Page TWO

possible with respect to whether these pérsors will be

available for testimony.

¡I we can provide ani

additional

inforiation with respect to this case, please do not

hesitate to contact the undersigned.

Thank you for

your courtesy and cooperation.

Very truly yours,

HOLI, PEOADES & HOLLYWOOD

Eat cal!

E. Mac Anos, jI.

EMA/db

Enclosures

---

## Page 24

14-00000

Maited Statos Bistrict Uruet

FOR THE

SOUTERR DISTRICE OF GiCIEOSING

UNITIO STATES OF AMERICA

84-2277-GT

DALTOY C. SMITE, et al.

TRATT MOVANE

You are hereby coininancied to appear in the United States District Court for the

Southern

in the city of

District dalifornia

".at

325 west E Street

day overber

75"9

at

9:00

San Diego '

on Lith

testify in the above-entitled case.

o'clock

A.

BL.

This subpcena is issued on application defendant.

MCCAM W. LUDDY

October 23

19pg.

Clerk.

=THE ROUS, JR

turntaidendant MEror.

1910-SEcond, Ave:, Suite 1712

san Dieto, CA

92101

Received this subpoena at:

•ánd ou

at

within named

by delivering з copy to

and tendering to

allowed by law.

SEAL)

Doputy Clerk-

RETURY

on

I serred it on the •

¿ce fee for one day's attendance and the mileage

Service Fées

By

Travel.

•Services

Toir!.

Inser: "United States," or

"defendant" as tha case na, ba

l'ees and milorse need not be tencherred to lie

iness una gervice of a subnorna issue in behall of the line!

States or an

neeney terrr. is UsE 1225.

ron chall of a defendiane uno la leucially unabir 8u gi

00 o.=08-80802088771080

---

## Page 25

Anited Statoy Sisicict Gourt

FOK THE

SONTORE! DISTRICE OF CALIFOR:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICI

1074-2277-61

DALTON C. SMITH, et al.

To.

COL. DOUGLAS HALDANE

You are hereby commanded to appear in the United States Disirict Court for the

Southern

in the city of .

District of

California

San Diego:.

on tii1th

testify in the above-entitled case.

:*$25 west z Street

day Slovember

9?oo

o clock.

to

This subpoena is issue on application del'endant.

WHERE I LUDDY

¿Otober 23

---1975

E-

"JR

flores detendant MEROLA

IOllaraçona Ave:, Sulta 1712

San Diego, CA 92101

Clerli.

SEAL

TESSIE GALLAGHER

Deprio Clarke

RETURY

Received this subpoena at

and on

within named

by delivering a copy to

allowed by law.

on

at.

I seried it on the

and tendering: to

the fee for one day's attendance ard the mileagu

Service Fees

- By

Travel.

Services

Total

Insert "Uniteil States," er "defendans" as llre case Maile.

t'ces and nulvage necd not de pendirrel to the

subiana issurd in bebail of the United

States or an ellicer

serney demol. i3 l'SC 15t5, or os bibull of a defendano não do inanina io liddio lo pios

sucia cases (Rulo 17 (b), Foderal Mulos Criminal Protrúarei:

---

## Page 26

2

HULLISON

lol0 jasond Averue,

Suite 171?

92101

17141239-1712

Attorneys for Defendant

JOSEPii R. MEROLA

5

6

UNITED StATES DISTRICT COURT

SOUTHERN DISTRICI OF CALIFORVIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

Plaintiff,

v.

JOSEPH R.: MEROLA, et al.;

Defendants.

FILED

GOT 22.1975

CuRs, US distacr cousr

SOUTHESY DISTICT OF CALFURNI

DEPUTY

10

17

12

13

14

A PROPIGBIONAL CERIORATION

ATTORNEYS AT LAW

IGSO SICOND AVENUE. DUITE, 1713

DIEGO, CALIFORNIA D2101

15

PMONE 230-1712

16

1?

18

19

20

• 21

22

25

24

25

26

2?

23

29

30

31

32

NO. CR 74-2277-GT

ORDER FOR ISSUANCE OF

• SUBPOENAS

::

This court having considared the application of defend

Joseph Merola, and the supporting affidavit of E. Mac Anos, JE

Hands

for issuance of sübpoenas directed: to Edward Stanton and Matt.

devane and having found that good cause exists for the issuance

of said subpoenas,

"IT IS HEREBY ORDERSO THAT the Clerk of

this court

issu

subpoenas requiring the attendance of Matt MoVane and Edivard

Stanton on

?

November 11, 1975 at 9:00 a.m. in this court and,

further, that all costs and fees in relation to the attendance of

said witnesses shall be borne by the United States under the

provisions of the Criminal justice Act.

D.:T'ED: OCT 22 1975

HY:-- GORDON THOMPSON, JR

GORDON THOMPSON

DISTRICT JUDGE

SOUTHERY DISTRICT OF CALIFOR::

---

## Page 27

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

1. On 23 October, Mr. Robert Starling of DCD called to say that

Mather MeVane (phonetic), a DCD officer wino is sationed in Miami.

Florida, had received a telephone call from a San Diego attorney sayina

that he was mailingà subpoena to him.

The aroriey, E. Mac Amos, Jr..

is o. menter of the law firm of Holt, Rhodes and Hollywood at 1010 Second

Avenue, San Diego, Califorria 92101, telephone No. (AG 714) 238-1772.

• Mr: Amos advised Mr. MeVane that the subpoena was íor his appearance

on. behalf of Mr. Merola who was on trial in San Diego.

Mr. Starling indicated that the charges against Aerola lad

'someching to do with exporting airplane parts without a license.

I called

$Mr: Clyde Bryant, Offico of Munitions Control, Department of State, to

determine if this prosecution was relatad to 22 U.S.G. 1934.-Mr. Bryant

called back and said that Merola was one of seven defendants being tried

on criminal fraud charges for having engaged in a flimfam aperation

against the Salvadorian government. The scheme was to establish a

facility in Salvador to assemble and sirvice helicopters. The group had

assembled a collection of Army surplus parts for helicopters and was in

the process of shipping thera without an export license and they were

seized by U.S:: Customs officers on 21 February 1971. Mr. Bryant

indicated that the Assistant U.S. Attorney in San Diego in charge of

the prosecution was a Mr. Robert Thaller, telephone No. (AC 714) 293-5668.

Mr.. Bryant also indicated that an individual by the name of Henry Maier-

hoffer was also one of the defendants and it was ir. Bryant's recollection

; that Maierhotter had some previous connection with CLA:

3.

I called Mr. Starling and reported this information to him and

he said that Mr. Merola was a real operator in the Miami area, always.

involved in some schere to buy and sell weapons but that he had volun-

teered information to the DCD Office, some of which was useful. I asked

Mr. Starling to have:Mr. MeVare call me when be got the sübpoena but

that he would not have to go unless they furnished the travel funds.

blank swame

Astociate Ceneral Counsel

cc: Chief/DCD

Distriburicn - OVER_

---

## Page 28

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

_ 30100:1975

201 File on U.S. Citizen

The ¿01 11le on

(surname) (201 number indicated below)

can be most accurately be categorized as

indicated below:

should be

closed.

- witting collaborator. Or Code Al.

-

potential witting collaborator; date opened

01 Code A2.

forner wicting collaborator

(relatlonship terminated).

01 Code A3.

potential witting collaborator never contacted (security reasons,

- derogatory information). Ol Code As.

counterintelligence care (1.e., Involving a foreign intelligence or

security service). Ol. Code A5.

all others. Ol Code A6. ISR

Signed

C/LSN/ISR

(name"

This assignment of category has been 'entered into Star.

(date)

This document in a permanent part of this file.

(curiponent)..

1975

CONFIDENTIAL

201-252804

E2 ISPDE1

I Bi 002216

---

## Page 29

4-00000

ACa

1000000

2°171

OMF

0

.. an fores done

=80R100

STAFF

COMP: 248

0919602

HE /P/AN, LSN/MIL, OPS/IN/,

644466

DISSEM BY: 3J

латика то PER

TO: LA/MIAMI INFO CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOTA, Y? TRA

#

MHABYSS PBRAMPART Y

REFT A. LAVMIAMI 22730 lIN 432300*1 ENOT NEEDED CARACAS, PORT AU

PRINCE, BOGHONTAY

-B• DIREÇTOR 63O8ZZ |EX/ENOT NEEDED CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCES.

DOGOTA jY

JOSEPH RAYMOND ME R O LÀ À WAS REGISTERED IN

ISR TO DEA/MIAMI ON LA DEC 74 AS A COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL FOR USE IN

HAITI AND COLOMBIA. IT IS REQUESTED THAT LA/MIAMI ADVISE DEA/MIAMI

TO CONTACT THE FBI AND DEPAKTMENT OF STATE FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ON MEROLA. Y

Z. FOR CARACAS; PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOTA:

DEA HOS

main c

INFORMED BKHERALD THAT MEROLA WAS OF OPERATIONAL INTERESTE

• DEN

REQUESTED TRACES AND STATED MEROLA REPORTEDLY WORKED FOR BKHERALD IN

LATE 1950°S. NE REPLIED THAT MEROLA HAD NEVER WORKED FOR ARTIERALD,

ALTHOUGH WE WERE AWARE THAT HE HAD MADE SUCH CLAIMS ORNUMBER OF

PREVIOUS INSTANCES. Y

3. FILE: 202-257604. EZ, IMPET-r

DATE: & JANUARYAAITA

ORIG: DARYL GEITLER:L

•UNIT: LA/CARICAR

EXT:

201-25.7804

*REF A REQUESTED TRACES

& REGISTRATION OF

MEROLA

LA/NARCS"

IT/S REPE FORUARDED TRACES.

DAVID A. PHILLIPS

SECRET

I JULAICAR

E 2

IMPUET

CL. BY: 010116

---

## Page 30

14-00000

UACLASSIFIED

USE CHLY

SUEJECT ¡Coronall

REGISTRATION REQUEST

FROM.

OPS/L5:/ INTERAGENCY SOUNCE REGISTER

BJ-5

10: 1Ofirer denignarion, room sumbor, and

burlding)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

IP/AIS.

HT - 3

O IDENTIAL

EJ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTRASION

1064/

5045

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

mb

ISRM

DATE

351.14

1 0 DEC 1974

Hit!

2:

3.

IP/EIB

DW -7

5.

IP/RMS

DW -6

7.

IP/LDI

СТ-6

FILE NO. 201

Ö351804

LSN/13R

BU-5

10.

11.

12.

13.

DOCUMENT DATE

ABSTRACT

13.

100м

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

TERH

J USE ON

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 31

SECRET ID

July 1922 -FBI/D

aUT 1992-54it/P

eSCL-N

DONCI-N'

ISR LOG

RE-REGISTRA-

TIEN

UTILIZATION

RE-CHECK

T3 :

DO NOT WRITE BELON THIS SPACE

TOi SECURITY

TO:

TO:

ISRM NO.

201 NO.

16 DEC 1974

18 DE-.-:

NAME

2-78 17971

SECRET

11 [50 19168-380

SECRET (Then

No Objection

to

Registrat

the risit

1!-

=

....=-t

Jith

by Dushai agrecaea: is

requiros.

CaRDER BMISION

c= 902, Ki Pulldisg - ext. 2201

ISR LOG

DCS reserve

1 accordanca

- B005 2.

mended use so

1x Cer 19r7

103 1797 carrieds

NEw

DATE

J Lee 7.

RE- REGISTRA.

TION

UTILIZATION

RE-CHECK

TICE

DO MOT WRITE BELOW THIS SPACE

TO: SECURITY

TO:

ISRM NO.

31,172

201 NO.

SECRET

18. 301

---

## Page 32

073

2-

SECRET

E TO REQUEST FOR REGISTRATIGN IN THE INTERAGENCY SOURCE REGISTER-

REQUESTER: Daryl

DEA

muax Geisler

LA/CARI

11::E0

Dec 1974

201-

257804

RE-REGISTRATION

AME (LOUS.

Middle)

MEROLA, Joseph Raymond

ALIASES-AND' JO

SPELLING VANTATIONS

UTILIZATICA

DATE OF GIRTH

PILACE

•9 Oct 1925

NEW" JENSEY

RESIDENCE

135 Dipont Plaza, Miami, Fla

RRESENT EMPLOYER

EDITIONAL ¡CERTIFYING DATA CeRCladin, referencan;

Based on LA/Miami 22730 IN 432300,

3 Dec 74 (attached)

Traces sent DIRECTOR 630872,

6 Пес

74 (attached)

Send cards to UFP 872 HVC HUB HTP

CITIZENSHIP

U.S.

OCCUPATION

pilot

PiRIS TRACE RESULTS

"the

M

P/EIB RERARKS

NAI TO THAT KNOWN TO THE REQUESTEP.

(OUTGOING CABLE)

(630872)

1 6 DEC 1974

ISR REPLY TO REQUESTER:

GATE

18 Dec 74

ISRU NUMBER

39,170

• Nothing in addition to that uk known by the requester.

For possible further information. you are referred to the FBI

and the Department of State.

2.

The ISR has no record of a current operational interest in shared

Subject who is hereby registered in the ISB to DRA Miami.

EVB

F7825E5

проа

txx 1797

WAR:

SECRET

---

## Page 33

7 5r or 8 91

0e055p-103

POrAL COMES 15-1

SECRET

PROLON LAIT NOTININD.

fessenore 940 0 As 2195x

C/LAN

FILE

8.8173.99

E1 A2 92

""Hen Ther

RUMIDITIO

PAGE 01

TOR: E322267 DSC 74

f 832388

SECRET DIZZIAZ DEL TA STAFF

CITE LA/MIAMI 22730

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

RYBARS MHABYSS PBRAMFART

REFI UFPS 1727, 25 GGT 74

1, PEEASE PROVIDE PRIORITY TRACES ON THE FOLLOWING

DE A NARCOTIÉS SOURCE AND REGISTER IN THE INTER-ASENCY

SOURCE REGISTER 1ISRIS

JOGEPATZAYMOND MEROLA (201-257804)

COBI D OCT 25 IN NEW JERSEY

U.S. CITIZEN

OCCI PILOT

ADDI 135 DUPONT PLAZA, MIAMI, FL.

LOCATION OF USE:- COLOMBIA AND HAITI

2. PER REF, ATT. AO. 2 PLS PROVIDE PRIORITY

TRACES ON. DEA NARCOTICS SOURCE ORLANDO

B A:T

ISTA

VIERA. AND ADVISE IF REGISTERED IN

FILE!

22C:11-111

206-11-11/17,

EZ. IMPDET

u222 200

SECRE ?,

---

## Page 34

ECRET

DO DOCUMEST EXIFAGT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION COSCERAINO THF SUAJECT OF THIS 201..

DOSSIER HAS BEEN FXTRACTES F=OM ENOTHER

PERSONS DERFORMING MAME TRACES DEE COUTICAED THAT

MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WES

PREDADEN CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION. PERTAINING TO THE SUEJEC! AID SHOULE BE REQUESTED

FROM IPAFILES..

. I

MEROLA, JOSEPH_RAYMOND

201-0257804

SEX M.

... DOR 09.000.25

POB UISA, NJ..

CIT USA

OEr. PILOT

203-011-011119

1119-22730-

03 05C 74

PES

USA,, FLAR. MIAMI, 135 CUPCHT PLAZA, TRACES

DFA NARES

DATF 05_ MAR. I5_ COPS CASP.

09231716

341-2257804

EC.

EZ IMPDET CL EY 054979.

pointe

доту под-,.

---

## Page 35

4-00000

-

SERRILT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20509

12 JUN 1974

MENDRANDUM FOR: MCt he deiet, Specia

Acting

Special Operations and

VIA:

Drug Enforcement Administration

Mr. John Warner

Chief, International Intelligence Division

Name Trace

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Memorandum,

Same Subject,

SEC-IGI-74-0037,

dated June 5, 1974

The matter of Joseph R.

Hexcla (Reference) has been

discussed between

Mr. Richard Kobakoff of your

Stanley Archenhold of this office.

Mr. Merola has

for this Agency, although

are aware he has

claims on a number of previous instances.

2.

It is suggested that

you

cortact the Federal Bureau

of Investigation for information concerning Merola.

Sermost 8, Bolton

Seymour R. Bolten

Special Assistant for

Narcotics Control Operations

DONC 74-052

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED ABROAD OR

OUTSIDE THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE RECEIVING AGENCY

NITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE ORIGINATOR

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF

EXEMPTION CATEGORY:

5 B (2)

DECLASSIFICATIOS DATE INPOSSIPLE TO DETERMINE

CLASSIFIED BY 003609

201-25?194

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SEUREI

• DONG 74-052

DDO/OPS/NARCOG:S.Archenhold:el

COORDINATION: LS/ (IRE)

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Acdressee

1 - WH/NARC

]

201-257804

1 - DDO/NARCOG DONÇ File

l?!".

DATE

SEURET

---

## Page 37

14-0000

DEPT C© JUSTICE DOCUENT

DATE: 5 JU52. 1974

SUBJECT:

NAVE TRICE

CLASSIFICATIC:

SECRET

FILE #: NORE

GIVEN

---

## Page 38

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, San Sairador

11144 941

SECRET

--ITENNISTA

FraN

Chief, Nestern Healsphera Division

RA DAMENE SAN SALYADOR 0018. 5 February 1974

TACHOR REPARO XITTRINCES

Headquarters requested. LMESGO traces on Larry A. Carr,

because of his business association with Joseph R. Merol a.

Trace results vere negative.

MAD

Marilyn A. DAKOSKI

DISTRIBUTION:

Orig. & 1 - COS, San Salvador

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 031685

CROSS REFERTACT 1O

RECORD COPY

DOPAION STARDS ANO SALIE

HSSW-3154

CASONATICA

SECRET

i DATE

typed I April 1974

і моз них минзії

1201-257804

1:

chrono

IP/AN

Fan etru

Get perrarina

* 17

WM/216S fla Patel Burke

(0259:891145.

m11

CONDI CHEATI

DA:A.

.1A1

1454

08:410s x110

tater ++18174991595

DISPATCH

---

## Page 39

F-4-2849

039-559-71

23 Yarch 1984

ÄHIs : David las Seach

Calad, Dosestle Collaction DAVlalas

JONOUR S. H9TO15

1037

•1os your laforiadlos, subjact tas bosa a toluntoor sourco

• 81500 1931.

t109- to 1130 producod lilarzatloa of latorost.

3. DES tabas to adriso you, bonora!, that to kato broiao

Soould tO OCTiact DO aLZiS, so aTO

collIatad to labos politaly, tase dons bla 1atoraatiza 105

tran:satial to tha appropstata aras dons, aod an'so absolutoly so

3a PloaD diract faribAT 19qU!I191 tO li. Irra B. Acaos,

DON/SuppOrt Branch/Oparatiocal Sapport Sociion, foOn 910, Xoy

Dulld: +5+874020203 5357-

-0. 1. .

1300301 R. SOSTONS

57:

EVAN B. ANS3/O

CC: SerVICOs Braach (Control)

VIto:: 85-25826

STORET

---

## Page 40

14-00000

CEPT O: STATE DUCU-ENT

DATE:

19 MARC: 1974

SUEJECT: PATTERSON CORPORATION (CENTRAL

AMERICAN

AERCSCAPE)

CLASSIFICATIOi: CONFIDEMIii

ET FILE & GIVEN

X.3014

---

## Page 41

4-00000

& IT

11 March 1874

HENORANDUA FOR:

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

REFERENGE:

Dosestle Collection Division

Mr. Skaud P. Ryan

JOseph R. MEROLA

• HH

25826, 8 January 1974

reference arena ron no ones coit retor i leton

andicating the Mamt fleld Offles had been In contact with one

JOSODA A. MEROLA.

MEROLA had Just returned fron a businoss

srip to El Salvado'; and ha reported that a friend of his had

Identifled a Mr. Greatlison in the Political Secilon of the

American Embassy la San Salvador as a suspect ClA representativo.

Headquarters traces on Joseph f. HEROLA Indicated that on saveral

occasions in she past MEROLA had clalmed that ha mas a clA

agent. The Chief of Station, the Mr. Greatllion referrad to

above, was recently questioned regarding any Embassy contact

MEN MEROLA unile the laseer was in san salvador.

The COS

stated that both ultnin the Esbassy community and at soclal

FUnctiOnS MEROLA nad frequently referred to his contact alth

ine

CiA, past and present.

He also volunteered this infor

matton to a porner station contact.

2.

In 11ght of the above, lt mould appear that MEROLA

had taken advantäge of nis agency contacts In an Inappropriato

sanner to

the potential ambarrassment of the San salvador

station.

we would, accordingly, appreclate that. this be given

due consideration

In your assessment of the advantage of

your

continued contact bith nia.

David L. Smock

6/W11/2.

EL

IMPDET

BY

509407

---

## Page 42

4-00000

TRANSMI. 'AL SLIP"**

10: LUH/2/GS - Patti

POOM NO.

BUt DING

REMARKS:

Reply fions

siate

FROM:

ROOM NO.

OPS/LSN

BUILDING

PLACES FORM JE

/HICH MAY BE USE.

EXTENSION

(47)

---

## Page 43

4-00000

-=*.

SPEED LETTER

¡ REFRY REVUESTED DALE

6 February 1974

по / "erica na

то.

ATTNI

OPS/LIAISON

FROM

WH/2/GS.

Request Dept.

of State Passporo Office biographic Inforration

un Larry A.

CARR, U.S.

citizen, currently in El Salvador negotiating

on behalf of the

Patterson Corp. to build a helicopter plant.

Patti Burke

DATE

WH/2/GS

SIGMATURE

REPLY

DIGRATUS

90 1831

---

## Page 44

14.00000

remaiaii nd'aifinii

DEPh' Of

STATE. DOCUSF.NI

DN.TE :

20 FEENUARY 1971

SUR.IEUT:

LARKY ALTON CARR

CLASSIFICATION:

NONE'

FILE M:

NONF.

(PASSPORT DIVISION)

---

## Page 45

STATE DEPT DOCUMENTS:

DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1974

SUBJECT:

PATTERSON CORPORATION (CENTRAL

AMERICAN AEROSPACE)

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

NO FILE # GIVEN (DOC #: SAN SALV. 0568)

DATE: 5 FEBRUARY 1974

SUBJECT: PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLANT

(PATTERSON CORP»)

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

NO FILE # GIVEN (DOC: #: SAN SAL.. 0048)

DATE:

5 FEBRUAKY 1974

SUBJECT:

PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLANT

(PATTERSON CORP.)

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

NO FILE & GIVEN

DOCUMENT #: SAN SALEVADOR 0448

---

## Page 46

14-00000

rattl,

the cos on ete tire cater to

sing at the end for corments as to whethe

ISROLA IS

"embarrassing" the Station or CIA

generally by talking so much about his CIA

connections.

If his re-Iy 1s 1n the affirmative,

 it will - robably be best for you to draft

a note to sas, ICD suzgestiry that no somohow

be silenced, -erha-s by their withdrawing fron

contact with thei since it is

obt ougly sorething

that he brags about

and otherwise tried to trko

advantage of

stoo

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Matt MacVane, DCD officer in Misul, net with Joseph R. NEROLA

on 15 January 1974; at which time HEROLA Identified the friend in San

Salvador who had identified @ Mr. Gremillion in the American Embassy in

San Salvador as a CIA representative. Toddlestes HEROLA also provided

the names of two women employed in the Embassy who were aaparted involved

in compromising situations with both Americans and local nationals.

MEROLA identified the two women as Nancy

SHALLOT and Delia OBESA. YEROLA

was met again on 17 January 1974 *Hxa&8axtxxaxdataratkaxxnyx8xh8xxpsrs*akax

at which time he provided the name of a third woman in the Embassy. Gloria,

who has also been involved in compromising situations.

Upon autar inquiring

Headquarters personnel who had recently returned froz San Salvador, the

above identities were

confirmed; all three are American citizens assigned

to the Embassy in San Salvador.

Above 1s a note deted 21, Januery 1974 fron ratt1 Eurke, WiI/2/GS/IA, based on

Information received orally from DeD.

---

## Page 48

14-00000

SECRET

TO

ATTN:

SPEED LETTER

Chief, WH/2/GS

(3 B 4402 Hqs.)

Patty Burke

FROM:

•SUBJECT: Case 61401 - Joseph Merola

IDATE

T 21 January 1974.

aSS-172-74

DCD/SB/OSS

SPRyan/ds

was identified as "Gloria" by our source.

passed verbally to El. Salvador Desk Officer on 18 January 1974.

E-2 IMPDET CL & 010650

SHAUN P. RYAN Even timeo de

steam

DATE

REPLY

SECRET

NETING TO GAININATIN

SaY 1831

1ol.oa

---

## Page 49

STATE DEPT DOCUENT

DAT3:

22 JANUAEY 19?4

SUBJECT:

PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLANT

CiASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTTAL

DUCUMENT #:

SAN SALV 0256

---

## Page 50

C'• UNCLASSIFIED

TAMAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONTI"" ITIAL

-SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optorol)

Case 61101 - CIA

Operative in fl Salvador

FROMDONESTIO COSDECTIOG DIPSGION

dupport Breaca/Operetional Support Suctlon

Pom 900, Key Euilding - cil..

TO: Officer dongnason, room number, and

WH/2/GS

Atta. Patty. Burke

3 B 4402 ilas:

18 January 1974

2.

he attached is for you

Information and possibl

interest.

(OSS-142-74)

10.

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 00,022

12.

15.

FORM

610 us Cas

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NTERNA

USE ONL

O UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 51

4-00000

SEGRET; SENSITIVE

089-148-14

18

January 1974

HOUQLANDUH FOR THE RECORE

SUBJECT: Case 81401 - CIA Operativo da Bl Salvador

BRUB : A.)

D.)

C.)

ya Dictator too au 135, 1974

D.)

Ryaa/MacYane tolocos 17 January 1974

B.)

Ryba Malawaring telocon IT January 1974

INX DOD/Alaal 12478,

17 January 1974

G.)

TEX DCD/Misal 13476. 17 Jazuary 1974

1. One of our sources in Haal, Josoph Merola, revealed

the sano aad position of an ladividual reportod to

be an Agency

official in El Salvador to Matt MacVane during the course of

Intervien on 21 Docember. 1973.

This vas roported In MIM-006-14

& January 1974. This report vas forwarded to the sl Salvador

Dest od 8 January 1974.

On 16 January 1974 the Dead requested

thas DaD obtain the aana of tha ladividual nestloned in this

senUraadua sho said ha thow a CIA olficer lu the Babassy. Thig

request was passod by telecca and TuX to Maciane by Ryan on

16 January 1974. The El Salvador Dasi also questioned the

rollability of our source, Joseph Mesola, at this time and

requestad vo quory ulani as to his reliability.

On 17 January 1974 at the request of MacVano, Ryan

visitod the Il Salvador Dest

to ascertain their objections to

Our BOUrce, known to us as a coavicted felon.

Desk objections

steamed: Iron:a 1964 report maicy indicatad that Merola dad

Infarned pursons: that Do vas a "CIl agent".

Further converga-

sion ollcitad tas lact that Herola bad agaln made this state-

meat in 1973 at an Aubassy lunction.

We adviged the Desk that

DOD aS DOll aMaTe ol herola's crialnil background but tiat he

had provided DCD gith rellable reports 12 the past unreiated

to file osn "pursults".

The El Salvador desk conflined the fact that the

Individual sentioned by derols's inforasnt as being a ClA

officer vas

tolecos on 17 January 1974. "yan adulaed HacVase of this per

in fact such..

HacYase sad Mainwaring told Byaa

they vere sending two cables relating to lala case.

The first

vould provile the sane of the person tho reportedly knew the

CIA OffICIal.

The second provided the sanes of too vomen

employed 1p

the Bibassy tho vere reportodly involved in

B 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

SECRET, SENSITIYE

---

## Page 52

4-00000

EGRET / SEMSITIVE

coapros1s1ay alluariona vith both anoricans and locai natiousla.

Thia latter cable gas requegtod aftar sto bl salvados

dest

officor adviood thai all avenues and possible leads sero to be

puraved to deterine uho leaked the intoraation rolatias to t00

Thoze two hazos (phonetically spellod) vero

provided in the second cable by klaal. All of the infeinarioa

receiven in thesa cabios vas passed via secura phone to ebe

81 Salvador dost by Ryan upon receipt.

•1. Madvaus advised Ryan vis toiocos that he intiergatod

meetlog aitù Josopu tarola a$ 1100 oR 1i Jacuary to address

furthor natters cracerned mith this case.

MaeVane advinod stea

that do tould sortard such infamation as so0s as poosiilo.

85100 P. RYAN

08:

Mlan1 Piald Offico

oc:

#H/3/08

co:

Bensitlyo Control Officer

SECRET/SENSTIVE

1:674

---

## Page 53

Jax 17

SECRET ITI8ASE JAI 7A STAFF

CITE IODIMIAMI 12476

DED/HASHINGTON

AIIAS SUPPORT ERANCH/OSS (SORYAN)

SUESS CASE GIARI

REF 8 004651 322/92506-74

THE IDENTITIES OF THE TUO GIRLS WHO WERE INE SUBJECT OF

OUR TELECON ARES

NANCY SHALLOT

DELIA OBESA

BORN SPELLINOS ARE PACHETIC, EUT SHOULD BE ICENTIFIABLE.

ONE IS SUPPOSEDLY SECRETARY TO ME. TAYLOR.

EZ IMPDET CL BY 212658

SECRET

---

## Page 54

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET 171845Z JAN TA STAFF

CITE DOD/HIANS 12476

DCO/WASHINGTON

E1 FR79

ATIES SUPPORT BRANCH/OSS (S HYAN)

SUBJA CASE 61421

HES& OUATS 322182566-74

THE IDENTITIES OF THE TWO GIRLS UNO VERE THE SUEJECT OF

OUR TELECO: ARES

MANCY SHALLOT

DELIA OBESA

BOTH SPELLINGS ARE PHONETIG, BUT SHOULD BE ICENTIFINELE.

ONE 15 SUPPOSEDLY SECRETARY TO AR. TAYLOR. EZ IEPDET CL 5Y 812658

SECRET

---

## Page 55

4-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CLATE A URE ORRY

12-2

ко0

con

ток

что

OMF Ti

ELAANANATION

SECRET

STAFF

COMF: L'HS

• р.

oл78.1o48 00

175306}

DIRECTOR

DeD,

C

НЕВАЛОПОКРАЛАЖСЯХ

502254

кое.

DISSEM aY: 29

то стоек

овчажіто, PER

TO: PRIORITY SAN SALVADOR INFO WHINIAMI.

PiAS

EREFS: A. SAN SALVADOR ZO68S TIN 1345848|

8. ЦН/МАМІ 20664 |IN 135313=81

ГB48]

С: HH/MIAMI 20685 |IN 13773033*1

0

1. FOLLOUING INFO. IN ADDITION TRACES REF 8:. JOSEPH RAYMOND

MEROL A (201-2576047. PER DBA bEZIZ, 13 APR 64, SUBJ CLAIMED HE

CIA AGENT AND ALLEGED CIA OBTAINED PRESIDENTIAL PARDON FIVE YEAR

PRISON SENTENCE FOR RUNNING GUNS CUBA. IN ADDITION CLAIMED CIA

ISSUED FASSPOPT IN NAME MICHAEL JOSEPH A E

ROL A FOR TRAVEL

CENTRAL AMERICA.

2.: PER HAS RECORDS, MEROLA NOT CIA AGENT, BUT HAS BEEN DED

CONTACT SINCE EARLY SIXTIES.

3. 21 DEC 73 MERCLA CONTACTED DCS MIAMI TO ADVISE HE RECENTLY.

SPÖKE WITH FRIEND IN SAN SALVADOR WHO WORKS FOR ANSESAL. FRIEND

ADVISED MEROLA NOT GO US EMBASSY SAN SALVADOR TO SEE A MAN NAMED

GREMILLION BÉCAUSE GREMILLION, UHO US ERRASSY POLITICAL SECTION

OFFICER UNDER SURVEILLANCE ON SUSPICION OF BEING CIA REP SAN

• SALVADOR. MEROLA TOLD FRIEND HE NEITHER KNEU NOR WOULD HAVE CAUSE TO

DATE:

ORIG:.

UNITI

EXT?

26-10?835

RECORD COPY

REFRDDUCTION DY OTMEN THAN THE ISSUIRE ONAICE IS AROMIBITRO

SECRET

CL

UY•

IMPDET

031685

---

## Page 56

OUTGOING MESSAGE

STaMAL CANTIN USE ONLY

con

гов.

0

499

OMF O

CLOSBAXATON

SECRET

82

2

STAFF

COMF:

DIRECTOR

ALiSES BY:

INFO: FILE .

502254

D

PER

SEE SUCH A MAÑ. FRIEND TOLD MEROLA HE ONLY TELLING HIM FOR HIS OUN

GOOD BECAUSE

IF MEROLA SAU GREMILLION, MEROLA WOULD BECOME A SUSPECT

CIA AGENT AS WELL.

•4. DED MIAMI RECONTACTED MEROLA 15 JANUARY DETERMINE ABOME

IDENTITY "FRIEND" IN SAN SALVADOR: 2F555P

FROCUIEND IDENTIFIED AS

2:1 - 72.31.16)

GUILLERMO PO BFE DE RA PRESIDENT INSAFI, MARRIED TO SECRETARY AT

IN SALIADOR

US EMBASSY, CURRENTLY. ON MATERNITY LEAVE:

5. MEROLA TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL INFO AT MTG WITH DED MIAMI

•17 JAN 74. WILL ADVISE.

b.. FILE: 201-257804- E2 IMPDET-N

UH COMMENT:

*REQUESTED HOS TRACES JOSEPH MEROLA, UHO CELAIMED TO BE

AERONAEUTICAL

CONSULTANT WITH PATTERSON AIRCRAFT

COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA

*AUHAMIANI TRACE REPLY

*ANNEGATIVE SLIGO aTRACES

DATE:

17 JAN 74

ORIG:

UNIT:

PATTI BURKE plo

WH/ZIGS

EXT:

1868

RDCD. SHAUN

RYAN: (DRAFTS

ÜN/PERMS W. LAYBOURNE (DRAFTS

CHUMACOG

@• BATHE (DRAFTY

Sanahluck

asino. 14,571

03b48S

1e

---

## Page 57

CASLE SEC DAEEEN BE.

mission ver noteço.

ACTIOM VAUT

TOTAL COMER 16- /

SECRET

EXPOSOUTION

ОТМЕНТНАЯ

RONING OTTICE IS FRONIDITED

STAFF

888883

PAGE 81-21

T.OR11514517 JAN TA

SECRET 1421122 JAN 74 STAFF

С!ТЕ ЙНАМІАМ! 22685

1OS. SAN SALVADOR INFO DIRECTOR.

REFA A. SAN SALVADOR 28605 (in 1346844)

B. HHIMIANS 28658 (IN. 135313)

1, NO ADDITIONAL SLIGO

TRACES ON JOSEPH ME ROL

2. FILE: 208-11-11/3. Eo2, IMPDET.

IN 137732

WMIM 22685

F/28

E

C

R

ridge

---

## Page 58

14-0000c

STATE DEPT DOCUMEN

SUBJECT:

PEOPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFY PLAN

DATE: 27 JANUARY 1974.

CLASSIFICATION;,

DOCUMENT

CONFIDENTIAL

SAN SALVADOR C0193

NO SILE E GIVEN.

---

## Page 59

CADLE BEN: DIAGRA Or Y2

PRMSONIL HIT MOTiPIRO

TOTAL COPiRO 16-2 nunar

SECRET

INDUINO OFFICE

STAST

L'H SIPTOPSINAR 2

-ta 923593

PAGE 81

TORIIIZIIDZ JAN

74

DAS SECRET 1IZOS92 JAN YA STAFF

CITE WH/MIAMI 20664.

TOS SAN ONLVADOR INFÓ DIRECTOR,

REFS SAN SALVADOR 20605/EN 1 34 0840

1.- JOSEPH ROME A O 6 A: DPOB 9 OCT 1925,

TURTLE CRÈEX, PA, STATION CARDS FROM PERIOD 1959-1963

INDICATE ME EX-CONVICT, NOTORIOUS

SMUGGLER. GUNRUNNER AND

GENERAL TROUBLE-MAKER, CARDS TO LAERGO REPORTS INDICATE HE

WAS INVOLVED IN PANAMA INVASION

PLAN IN 1959, ANDIN

HASTIAN INVASION PLANS IN 1958 AND 19630 IN 19590

HE WAS ÜNDER INDICTHENT IN PA, FOR

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION

OF STOLEN ARMS, IN 1S68, ME: HAS PRINCIPAL IN

PROPOSED CUBAN COUNTERFELT PESE DEALI

LNERGO WAS CONTACTED

Sis.

IN 1961, AND INDICATED THAT ALTHOUGH HE

HAD LONG RECORD, HE UADQUOTEDLY COULE SPEAR AUTHORITATIVELY

ON INTERNATIONAL AFTALES: ANSO PRES ME 225 INTERESTED S

IN PROVIDING CONTRAGANO BEGSASE DEDCMISTETAN

SENATOR, AND ATTEMPIRE Mi:: 1'

•án... BESTRICTION"

WHICH PLACED ON MIM AFTeR CORViN'

:!TER GLADESTINALY

ÄMINGING I T W.S. T 5!M•.

-IST:FOR

→= Arous-

• HMIM

28664

---

## Page 60

14-00000

d.

POTAL COPIRS

SECRET

DUM BY

RRPRODUCTIOI

IRRUIMO OFFIGI

STAFf

MORE.

FILE

VR

--.2a

ACTION A

823593

PAGE D2-02

TURI1IZI19E JAN 7A

IN 135315

::1418-29686

FULGENCIO SATISTA, OR FOR CHARGE THAT ME INVOLVED IN THEFT OF

GUNS FROM NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY,

3. SUSVECTIOT LISTED 1973 MIAMI PELEPHONE BOOK.

LATEST ADURESS IN CAROS ISS 2018 NORTH DAY RD, MIAMI

BEACH, FLA, ME WAS VISITED AT THIS ADDRESS IN 1951 SY MBR

OF SLIGO URGANIZATION, WHO DESCRIBED HOME AS "PALATIAL",

J. ALTHOUGH WE HAVE NO NECENT INFO ON SUBJECT, SUGGEST

THAT HIS PLANS ESTAGLISH HELICOPTER PLANT IN SAN SALVADOR

MAY HAVE SHADY SIDE, POSSIOLY SMUGGLING ARMS OR LUCRATIVE

NARCOTICS TRAFFIC.

4, SINCE SUAJ IS U:S, CIT, REQUES! AGOVE INFO NOT BE PASED.

LIAISON ON OTHER U,S, GOUT AGENCIES WITHOUT NOS APPROVAL.

Si WILL FORMARD PERTINENT SLIGO TRACES.

6, FILS: 20001101113; E=Z, AMPDET,

---

## Page 61

14-00000

IuM.ar.

PERDON'UNIT MOTIVICO

_ ARKANERGOPY IBRUIRiBLOTIER

ACTION UNIT

RF

FILE

N

"PRODUCTION OY OTHER THAI

FOVINO OF. ILE IS PIOMÍOLY LA

STAFF

ALIION O

832260

PAGE 01-01

TOR: 1113228 JANTA

IN 134684

SALV

20685

SECRET 102325Z JAN TA STAFF

CITE SAN SALVADOR 20685

TOS DIRECTOR INFO WHAMIAMI.

508.0957804

1, REQUES: TRACES ON MR: JOSEPH R: MEROLA: AGE 48;

K

BURN PENNSYLVANIA: RESIDENCE OS MIAMI SHORES: FLORIDA,

MEROLA CLAIMS BE AERONAUTICAL CONSULTANT WITH PATTERSON

AIRCRAFT COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, HE SUPPOSEDLY TRYING

• NEGOTIATE DESL TO ESTABLISH HELICOPTER PLANT EL SALVADOR.

DURING TALKS AT SOCIAL PARTIES WITH EMBASSY PERSONNEL HE

INDICATED PREVIOUS WORK WITH ANHERALD.

2, SILE: DEFER: EZ IMPDE:

* Suc's

ECRE

RECORD COPY

v28

#: 1557-538

---

## Page 62

D

UACLISSIFIED

sHAL

CONF, ATIAL

SUBUECT. (Cpa.anei)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM

CIA Operative 1a El Salvador

~ DOHESTIC COLLECITOS DIVISION

support Branch, Oposalianal Suppare Seciloa

Mr. Shaun P. Ryan

burbdup)

BATT

_HH-25826

_ 8 JanuAry 1974

OFFICERS

Do than

2.

C/WH/2/GS

Attn.

Kathy laurer 10 JAN 1974

8120

3 B 4102 Hgs.

04/414/2

11 JAN 1974-

SECRET.

The attached Memoranduia.

ECHM-006-74; is for your

interest and retention.

Please advise us at your

carliest conventence of

any additional interest

or requirements in this

matter. Thank you.

СС: CI/ОР/УН

11 JÁN 1974 / 11

you.

C/WH/2/G=S

8.

WH/2/6s/Patte

_ Militia -

lal the ail be s to fantant

10.

11.

$ 2.

1J.

who the secret retice sen

/ her send miss filet.

E 2 IMPDET CL, BY 007623

3:506

Test are toe he

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CJ UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 63

14-00000

94ronal A40s01A 1

UNITID STATES GOVERNNENT GOnNal.

Nemorandum

PROSE

Chief, sorestle Colloction Dlvisi0n

Support Eranch/055 (JGrOSs)

Chief, Mimal Field Office

SUBJECT: CIA CioratIve In El Salvador

+1 101-006-74

DATE: 1 JanUary 1974

MURAWSK!??

1. Joe Merola contacted the Milant Office on 21 December 1973 to

canard

explain that lie recently had spoken with a frieni of his in San Salvador,

El Sulvador. The friend, who allegedly worko for the El Salvnioran

Secret Service, told Herola that wain he (derola) comes. to El Salvador

not to to to the US kabassy to see a nan nured lornillion. The friend

pol sectus.

Errilon, told Moroln that Verrillion 10 the Connorcial Attache at the embassy

and In under surveillance because he is suspected of being the CIA man

In San Salvador.

berols told his friend that he did not know a man

nance vernition, nor would he ever rare cause to sce such a man. The

friend then toll Herola that he was only telling him for his own good,

and that 1f he (licrola) were to see this Vernillion that Herold would

becose a euspected CIA agent as woll.

2.

Verole said. that he was passing this information to us in case

we did Indeed have a man In san Salvador by the name of Vcraillion.

Merola has been a contact of the liani Field Office fur sore ten years,

and during that period he has passed to this off'ce soue very reliable

Information.

i Ma

11947

BRUCE E. MAINVARING

AchacVane: pau

5 2 DOT CL BY 010550

, CONNECTAL

Bay US. Sesires Hands Regalarly as she Patrill Sasings Plai

---

## Page 64

SECRET

1 February 1964

Chicf, Security Branch

Greg Marucu

:: * 785

rt.11

Lt. Van Buskirk, Metro Intelligence

To pass info and receive advice.

0930 nours,

4 Feb 64,

telephonically

Van Buskirk advised that Clifford V. CONVELL, who was

arrested about two months ago for illegal possession of aboutld

tons of dynamite will claim as his defense that he was performing

a patriotic service for his country by working with Joseph Raymond

MEROLA who has

on numerous occasions claimed to be working for

KUBARK.

The trail date has not yet been set.

the same. case:

Remer Estuez ODOM, and Harold WIDDEN.

was

born

10/9/25, Pittsburgh, Pa. and posseses FBI #4989299.

Van

Buskirk wanted to know if any of the above are working for

KUBARK.

results of Station traces are attached

charlie Makay said" Joe has hand ntoret on mllage

luid, upermant type not an agut, not an fit noed and not

in position

aim employme. Metay the wit hant to

the said on

Jole Alic i trench

lace ther same iMmerther Javelin part Haits Which

dyname cace:

Advise 00.

Advise. Van Buskirk that the

above individuals are not working for KUBARK.

Teres reca

Metro

SECRET

---

## Page 65

present Actinitia.

s ishades 1600 ts. 4.teh6

Van Boatents said has stonel he pupond ho somebada

i count from. as office, randy t deny clain

o Camill as

Le intros me the so Degance. CO.S.

---

## Page 66

From

Mitch Lawrence

Regarding Joe Merola:

Information passec on..

to Lt. Van Buskirk per our discussion.

Van

Buskirk advised that we should have somebody

ready to go to court and to desy the claim

of Connel that he was working on our behalf.

The date for the trial is not as yet set and

Van Buskirk said there ts no hurry, but he

would like to know whether or not we would

have somebody there in as much as this person

- Intends to base his defense on the basis of

his working for us.

---

