# 104-10063-10152

## Page 1

110410063-10152

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET 310633Z JAN 73 RESTRICTED HANDLING

7-34

CITE (DAR ES SALAAAM) 1144

12-35

TO: HEADQUARTERS INFO(NAIROBI) (EYES ONLY MASTROME>.

MHCURB RYBAT MACHAOS

17-34

REFSS A. DAR'S SALAAR) ILAR 19 GaR 13

HEADQUARTERS 9343 & Qure 12

Co

(NAIROBI) 1268 Al,

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Do

HEADQUARTERS 8175 1 0a 42

= (MAIr 088) 1255 18 My 12

12-35

F. (AJDA 03452 CNOI SENT (NA IROB I) 23 Mar 18

L. HEADQUARTERS 30B1 SNOT SENT MATROBIS DJAX13

HEADQUARTERS 3258 19 Ju 13

Lo OBOWL/I DEPARTED DAR FOR NAIROBI 30 JANUARY. IN THREE

MEETINGS DURING 9-DAY IDY COBOWL/S PROVIDED FOLLOWING NEW DAIA:

20 PETE O NEAL, BPP LEADER, CONTINUES VERY LOW PROFILE.

HAS BEEN VISITED ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS BY FRED JOHNSON, ONCE

EXCHANGED VISITS WITH SHOO-BE-DOO. FROM JOHN MANNING CODOWL /1

LEARNED O'NEAL NOW RESIDING IN FIRSI FLOOR REAR FLAT OF BLDG G

IN NEW APARTMENT COMPLEX IN SOUTH DAR ES SALAAM. CAPPROX LOCATION

COORDINATES 30/43 ON SERIES Y941 EDITION 3 AMS MAP "DAR ES

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM

CL BY 012682

DUP. OF

7/15

ripo

---

## Page 2

14-00000

17-34

PAGE 2 DAR ES SALAAM 1144 SECRET

SALAAM-SOUTH*'. LIVES WITH WIFE CHAFLOTTE AND TWO UNIDENTIFIED

BPP MEMBERS IN APARIMENIS ALLOCATED MAINLY TO UNIDENTIFIED

CHINESE ADVISORS. MANNING STATED THAI O'NEAL. ORIGINALLY OBTAINED

FLAT #T IN BLDO E ADJACENT TO PRESENT RESIDENCE, FROM SUBS.

REF BO, LEONARD DILLON. DILLON RECENTLY DEPARTED, WITH ONLY

$20 IN HIS POSSESSION, FOR ZAMBIA.

3. JOHN MANNING WAS UNABLE TO CARRY OUT REF C IRIP TO

UGANDA• APPARENTLY WAS STOPPED AT UGANDAN BORDER BY MILITARY

GUARDS AND ADVISED HE WOULD NEED LNFALL DOCUMENT REQUESTING

ENTRY (THE ULTIMATE HUMILIATION -ACCORDING TO MANNING) MANNINGS

INTENTION WAS TO SEE IDI AMIN AND SUGGEST ECONOMIC LIAISON WITH

BLACK MUSLIMS IN U.S. HIS MOST RECENT ATTEMPT TO CONTACT

UGANDAN LEADER WAS LETTER WRITTEN DURING WEEK OF 22 JANUARY TO

AMIN RECOMMENDING THE CHARACTER OF HIS FRIEND JOSEPH "FATMAN"

BROWN

IN SUPPORT OF BROWN'S FORTHCOMING RESIDENCE REQUEST. CIT

ISN'T CLEAR WHETHER THIS IS DIRECT RESULT OF NOTIFICATION OF

TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES AND BROWN OF REVOCATION OF BROWN'S U.S.

PASSPORT SEVERAL DAYS EARLIER OR SOME OTHER REASON. HOWEVER,

IN ALL COPOWL/I ELICITATION OF INFO ON UGANDAN CONTACTS OF DAR

MACHAOS COMMUNITY THERE NO INDICATION ANY CONNECTION WITH PLO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

17434

PAGE 3DAR ES SALAAM IIAA SECRET

>2

INTENTIONS TO CONTACT BGACK AMERICAN RADICALS REPORTED IN (AUK

17-36

2393, (RAMPALA) 19388.

4o COPON 11 CONTACTED ROOSEVELT BROWN SUBJECT REF D. IN 2A

JANUARY FOR SHORT CONVERSATION IN WHICH BROWN STATED HE HAD JUST

COME DOWN FROM NAIROBI. ACCORDING TO CIRHEARTY/I ROOSEVELT BROWN

ATT SMPTED RENEW OUTDATED EXCURSION AIR TICKET THAI SAME DAY BUT

WHEN RENEWAL WAS APPROVED WAS INFORMED BROWN HAD RETURNED NAÍROBI

26 JAN•

5• ON WAY TO RALLY PROTESTING PAIGO LEADER CABRAL 'S

ASSISINATION COPOWL SPOTTED LYNN (PRINCE HENRY)

EVNS AKA FREDRIK -

ROLLINS, SUBJECT REF E. CEVANS CURRENTLY SUBJECT OF NVIDEA •

REGIONAL SECURITY OFFICER INVESTIGATION DURING DAR IDY)

6. ON VISIT TO PAN AFRICAN SKILLS (PAS) OFFICE, ODORL/I MET

FRED BROOKS, AND MALIK CHAKA, SUBJECT REF

F, LATTER WAS IN MIDST

FRENETIC ACTIVITY PRODUCING "STATEMENT FROM PAS FOR DEMONSTRATION

BRALS

AT TANU HQS DENOUNCING CAME ASSASSINATION..

•To DURING VISITS TO PAS OFFICE, @POWL/1 PERFORMED INITIAL

TECHNICAL SURVEY. (FLOOR FLAN AND NOTES BEING FORWARDED BY

DISPATCH). EXEMPLAR ELECTRIC OUTLETS NO LONGER OBTAINABLE

LOCALLY, HOWEVER COPOUL/I BELIEVES HE CAN GET THEM IN NAIROBI FOR

g/ p

---

## Page 4

14-00000

17-34

PAGE A DAR ES SALAAMIYA SECRE I

FORWARDING WOLOCK.

GROWL /1 DETERMINED THAT GEORGE RICE AKA GEORGE MATHENS,

SUBJECT REF G. WAS RELEASED BY TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES SEVERAL.

WELKS AGO (DESPITE LNFALL IMPRESSION GOVI. STILL PURSUING INITIAL

EXTRADITION OFFER) • EXPLANATION GIVEN TOCOBOWLAI BY MANNING AND

BROOKS FOR ORIGINAL DETENTION OF RICE WAS THAT TANZANIANS HAD

MISTAKEN RICE FOR HIJACKER GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT • MA HAD ..:

INDICATED TO LNFALL WHEN SUGGESTING EXIRADITION THAT THEY

BELIEVED RICE TO BE HIJACKER WRIGHT BASED ON NEWSPAPER PHOTOS OF

DELTA HIJACKERS. IRONY OF WHOLE SITUATIN IS. THAT WRIGHI, AKA

LARRY DARNELL BURGESS, WAS IN DAR ES SALAAM AT TIME OF RICE

DETENTION, ACCORDING TO SEVERAL OBOWL/I SOURCES.

9• CURTIS POWELL, SUBJECI REF H, CURRENTLY RESIDES IN SAME

AREA BUT NOT SAME BUILDING AS PETE O'NEAL. COPOWL/L AND MANNING

DROVE POWELL TO AIRPORT ON WEEKEND 27 JANUARY FOR TRIP TO NAIROBI.

END POWELL FUME.

BOTHCOPOWL/S AND MANNING HAD TO (PORTION GARBLED) TO PAY

AIRPORT TAX.

10. NO FILE E2, IMPDET WN-SISM.

SECRET

GIrd

---

