# 104-10119-10367

## Page 1

104-10119-10367

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

20 February 1970

KEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: VAN HET REVI, Karel - $839052

REFSS

Attached Clippings from the NEW YORK TIMES ata 11 Jon 1970 and

NEWSHEIK Atd 12 Jan 1970

References reported that Subject, founder of the Alexander Herzen

Foundation in Amsterdan, 1s publishing the uritings of soviet dissenteres

notably Andrel AMALRIK, Andrel SARHAROV, Pavel LIVINOV and instOly F. MARCHENKO.

2. subject vaa Branted a Por La June 2969 for use as on informant is

SB/PO/M, W. Surope, under Project AEDGGHEAD.

sarab K. Hall

SRS/0S

Atto. Refs.

2210-29)

іл.

NFULINNEEH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NE! YCRK. TIMS

11 Jaruary 1970

New Duich Group Is Publishing

Writings of Sovie: Dissenters

Fy HEVRY RAYMONT

A graup ne West European,

rict sonators dod tune is tir

scholara haye set. up a non-

obsessive. fort

profit neganization,

lized the sarin pin,

harrier-

partin

the

• santative said.

"They criend

ander Herzen Foundation in, hat there is nothing in Swiet

Ampterdame in

disseminaie'

jaw to prevent them from puis-

W'ErKS

by dissident Soviet lishing abrad and they insist

wiiters.

07

casercising their rights."

What differentiates the Her-!

The purgnir is to proteci the! zon Foundation from some

author's name against piracy,! the émigré presses that publishi

notical expinitation,, carcless;

wanglatioas and other compli-!

manuscripts smugglid

out

the Soviet Union,

main.!

eastons that have often marked|

the publication in the lest of

tained, is that it has the ap-!

proved of

the authors

act,

mauseripts smugaled out of!

the Sprint Linina.

, as their agent abroad.

With the increasing interest

Established in 1968

in

-Sovirt discent,

The foundation

was estat-

Wes orn

puslistore in recent,

lished in 1068 hy Dr. Karel van

•Months

hare

turned to the

lict Frie became friendly swith

foundation for book rights tot hiral at the Unirruty nó

such works as Andrei Amal-l

Lorden.

with summore from a.

Flow's

"Will thr U.S.S.R. Sur group nê Dutch businessmen.

Tive

Until 10919".

Anaioly T.

Marchenko's "M

Testimony."l

While he Has Masoni cor-i

respordent for a Dutch news-,

and crays by Pavel Litvinov,

paper in 1907 and 19tis, Dr. van:

ni Maxim Litvinov.

hes Reve became friendly with

Soviet Forcian Minister under

several writers who asked to

Stalin.

helped

in

sciting

their

Thoush the translations to-

books published in the West.

ceived wide notice in the West

After he returned to Amster-

con press.

Tittie

Was known

dam in 1968, Dr. van het Revel

abnus tac inundation until one

was joined by Dr. Jan Bescmut.

of its representatives came brre

annther Russian literature pro-l

last week in expinin lis

ToiC

fessor, who swas also a new's-

to United States pablishers.

paper correspondent in Mos-

"Vie reccired mar insniration

COW.

and Poier Reddawar.

fron iho enlighiened efforis of

ecturer at the London Schun!

Alesandro Herzea to defy 1o-

of Economics. One of the in-

talitarian methods against Rus-i

sillule's principal advisers

sian authors by publisiring theimi

Max Havwarde a translator of

in the West ind sending their Russian literature.

The foundation's procedure

bonks back tinnugh a hierary is to publish a manuscript in

underground,

titied, said in an interview.

tive no asked a he done by sira sian at, before

insuring copyright.

Herzen Had a Journal

offering

publishers in

Western Euroye and the Unit-

Horzen, an aristocratic litera-ed States.

teur and

father

of

socialism.

in 1857

starter

Kussian in the Weste

Since it placed its first book

Mr. Lilvinnu's

periodical,

Koiokol (The Bell) t "Dear

Comrade"

(published

in London to publicize his ideas here by Pitman), the organiza-

and those of

other dissidents

rion has superica

transla-

hanned by

Tsarise

autocracy.)

tions and collected

royaltics

The journal established a long for the authors. It is now pre-

tradition of Russian publishing paring several test cases to de-

in exile that over the yoars has

termine whother

the

authors

included such authors as Lenin,

can he paid through official at-

Gorky. Trotsky and Pasternal:.

counts in

the

Soviet State

"The new gereration

of So- Bank.

---

## Page 3

richesi

de vanuary 1970

Underground Press

Ass normal citudesk standards, Karel

It Move wasn' much of a noirs-

•da. his alass is Diescon corr. sprinal-

•ane the: Descle caily Det Paral. "I

ide foretting to ask names cod ages,

lut fern, van het Hose stas

•cly a seholar of Russian literature sho

1l male signeed en with the newspaper

a T d manding a verror so in the

tenge tonion. And now, back at his lec

run of Headles Piniversity, the mild-man-

and ex-regriter

is schop-

'it.

oh! hey torehmg the story of

mad liniel oppenition mesencht in

named

go kaleir Flerzen, thic

nincternth-

Hessian

writer

wla printral

or el Ricerines manuscripts abroad, van

is der i hus begun releasing a flood of

mile raced poltical

and

mimoirs for publication in the West.

Mutine ouly as agent and trinslator, van

họt Pros made bradlines with the bitter,

apocaloptic pamphlet "TWill the U.S.S.R.

sarvive Cntil 105-17" ly goothin historian

Grises Amalrik,

which appeared in tho

Sil arre of the British quarterly Survey.

ol tel week, van het Brod gave Ness-

Behere 1. Korangold in eachsivo

a This Tortest

triunple over Sovict

torship: a 400-page dossier on the

d99093-10008 trial of lour Hussie dlissi-

dures-Jari Galanskos, Mleks.ur: Ginz-

Borer i.

Abckroi

Dearersky and Vora

Linite endlese look plore in Alosers

erin: Kolalnska Strere erthouse in

carl 1:08.

lien let

Reve. as it happens, "i-

erer that trial himself, shivering with

the post of liescons's foreign press corps

in silizero cole on the strapt outside the

«1111?.

The charges were, in esscure,

seeite in the production of a nhite

l" of all cordly ati-soviet documenis

live 1iiG trinl of writers

and Andrei Singavsky plus

alrael collusion

with NTS, a counter.

revolutionary Russion imigré group in

Frankfurt, Comany, Prious of the ac

cused smuggled out thammail accounts

uf each day's procer lines. and when

the trial ended, van het Revr, through

this

friendship with one of

the

solf-

mpointed murt recorders. rame into

possession of the 120 different manu-

peripis which make up the look that

Longmans Grren will publish in Britin

Tater this jour.

Time: Though much of the material is

technical, couragoons voices like that of

Ginzhury,

boring?

thre

crinbalive itinos-

Plete nf the treal to life. "I thought and

I eroine to think mess

"ire ricelared lo

fier jurige.

"that if fee agrec with

eumething 1 should expreis my disagree

ment openly... I know that vou will con-

vict me bccause not one person charged

under Article 70 fanti-Sorirt activity] has

cver beet acouitica, i sill go oft in the

camp calmly to serve my time

Van het Reve naturally isn't rager to

reveal how he smuguled out this mass of

documentation.

"Let's just say I man-

aged," he smiles. Probably through the

time-honored methods rif the plain brown

enerlope and the lugerge of departing

forcigners. he and the Herzen Founda-

tion, which ironically occupies the lonner

headquarters of the Dutch Communist

Portly in Amsterdam. have "managed" to

reaches not only the Amalrik pamphiel

murd the Ginsburg trial records, bitt s

seare fion of other anti-regime works

including a shory attack on Sovict politics

ly Andrei Sakharove the noted nuclear

plussise, and a faceal necount of life

in thir Q.S.S.R.'s labor camps by Anatoly

Marchroke. who is still surving time for

acilation.

A lapord Stalinist turned democrat,

van het Reve insists that the Herzen.

Foundation is apolitical. "Our only aim is

• lue sis e these people a chance to publish

and that's all." he says. And it lie car

keep his foundation clear of damaging

nutside support and free of any profit

10

mater no merced in it lee,

will tirr

can it alte to dread sens

rule incised tor acception di

y+11..

tell sucial enride abroad

---

