# 104-10171-10018

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10171-10018

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

05,08

Souros Iostoro Requerra Morninior N1289162)

UEGA 3513/27

15 man! 6?

Country Cube

Subs (ora bolor different reports)

Dalo of laco "ror to p car 62

es Classiffeatron: 19774-2663

70556619743

Daço plico dog Prior 2o 8 Mur 62 Kabana Cabe..

Sourco descript. Cubin natlonal na, vas siudent at thu inlviralty of labana

Lo. Tho studone roatstance, organizilian in sabana 1o lie Elrsatarlo

Ro olsalonardo dotadtancel (D8E, Scaluat Earolutl Miry Sractory)

Ono os 14s Juadora 10 Lostor Carsta Rosalodnho de la ctare of Slainco

sor Habana Psov1Do0. Shai Robarto Sulptalres santiao)se the godural

coordinitor of the DRi. Ho tes an outorani lino of consunication,

running out of Cuba, throub an offledal os cho Uruzuayan lorse sy 1n

Mabana, Cuintalros roplaced Flecarso exontasix Karender viso so

arrested by tho Cuban securiu forcea in January 1862 and 18 presently

in pissaro

2a: Tha DRi hus a Olandagels propajania nonipapor caides Iolichurge!

burrttee 18 1o publlab on a vory l- rucular biolo.

3.. In or er to finance Its actlultles thá DRi sello bonds 10 onu and

riva peso denominailons, horever, tcaus, of the socurliy concilions so

Cuba, one must be vory carolui in dilling lhe bonda or olse hu say soll

one to a jove nmant ajent who are constantly trying to provaxo oppositionists

"to shou thensalvag.

Do During tha la:ter part 0l Pabitary 19E2 iNo bonbo excladas in tho

Underalty of mabans. It was sall that the bazbing wis doss by the

DRE,

ME XI REPORTE SALE STUSS

The section of habana known as Al'uras ial Bosque (roughiy, lse

sights of the hoods) is bolng beaully fortified ty the Cubas lovernoent.

This area is located on tha north alde of 23rd Stroofll il above tho

170120-19

CS COPI

14-120-19-

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

7/8R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

paga 2

Nootro ehora of the Noanderas MIu ra Il 15 deli tal Iriortene gorrrause

asfalale alco Ilva la Ehia aspl, Marrreba)o8s, Real Unla 8ocLlon has a cosierdise

MiA REPUNT- SiMO SEVED

Ia all ty ¿loe in latana anl un'11 6 March 1962, Cha dato os sy

Jaqurturo, I ner susi soro chan 3 Cuban a1s foroo Joet ponos 1n Uno alo

oner Ue AIrALrp al carpo Ilbortad, an no on: hia ston dury chen chio.

mueber 101 the al- de s0s 2100. This louves us to bridoro sit tho

ast fardo dous no: bino do nary jato so trar sai they hano.

49-122-19

---

