# 104-10438-10186

## Page 1

1104-10438-10186

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

23 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Call from Jon,French of DCD Concerning Frank

STURGIS

The following information was provided to Jon French

The information was

on 23 August who obtained it from Oscar FREELY. FREELY is

writing a book on Frank STURGIS.

STURGIS is to appear on the Tomorrow Show at 2 a.m.

on 24 August, which is to be narrated by Tom Schneider.

STURGIS just recently returned to Miami from taping the show

in New York.

-While in New YOrk STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and

obtained from her a book which, according to source, appeared

to be cryptographic material and seemed to relate to Albania.

The DCD source saw a "few copies" of what he described as

"mathematical matrix" material.

STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) is attempting

to contact Senator Baker to turn over the material to him.

DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the situation and

whether the material in fact is turned over to Baker.

file

Chris Hopkins

LA/COG/CIOS

201- 242256

STURGIS

A000 * Phil: FenDie-le wine do.

8/23

D00214°

---

## Page 2

13-00000

18186: 1-00) 1481 F111 land Sign on lesl

Instructions for Divisions ond Srolls:

Use boek of form fo

• additional comments.

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Cllela ll appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS)

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

FORM

LETTER

23 AUGT6

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARA TERS)

LA,

COG CIOS

CLASS

FRE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

S

REFERRED BY (1O CUPASTERS)

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

The RecoRD

DDO T

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

201242256

7

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

Call from JoN FRench oF DeD ConceRNing

FRANK STURGiS

OF

REVIEW

OF

REVIEW

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form.

c. beny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

B. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECSION TO 110 CHARAGTERSI, COORDINATE WITH (10 OURACTERS)

9

10

SIGNATURE

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS

(40 CHARACTERS)

FOlA

B1 B2 B3 BA BS B6 BYC

PA

B SI J8

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

•2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Informinion pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Poreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify

the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7. Location of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged donestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonyi

12.

Cryptonym

13. Intemal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to reguest

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

REMARKS (IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE)

ARACTERSI

REMARKS 1160 CHAF

CTERS)

HSCA BoX

1b

REVIEWING OFFICER

E.0.12358

FOLA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(5) (37

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(K) (2)

(j) (1)

(1)

(j) (1)

(3(1)

(5) (1)

(j)(1)

(j) (1)

(3)

(;) (1)

(3)

(;) (1)

(3)

(1)

(3)

(j) (1)

(3)

(5) (1)

(7) (0) 13) 11)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

11

12

13

14

SISNATUNLIOFFICL OF DO COMPONENT REVIEMNG OFFICEI

This Form la Unclassifred Unlosa Tha Classificalion is Cl

and Tha inlomation delow la complored.

CL BY:

DECL OADR

DRU FROM:

---

