# 104-10161-10226

## Page 1

14.00000

104-10161-10226

2a.50.

• 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

20 August 1964,

Sit to

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, OSD/OS

ATTENTION

: Michael Shortley

SUBJECT

: Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lahera

147451 F-SDA

The Subject WHD asset is currently residing in

Apt. G-32 at the Summit Hills Apartments, 8500 16th St 740

Apt. is a local Arlington attorney Roger MCK. SHFA, EsqJ,

who has acquired the place for the ostensible purpose of

providing quarters for out of town clients, etc.

2.

On Friday, 7 August 1964 Subject claims to have

made

a long distance phone call from the telephone at the

Apt., 587-8534 to a cousin, Pablo Rodriguez, 2852 (sic)

West 20th St., New York, N. Y., telephone number HI 9-1359.

3. It is requested that your office ascertain if this

call was actually made on the 7th, including the time at

which the call was made. It would be appreciated if you

could ascertain if any long distance phone calls were made

on 6 August. It is further requested that you attempt to

identify the subscriber to the New York number, HI 9-1359.

No Pablo Rodriguez is listed in the New York telephone

directory, and the address is obviously an incorrect one

as street

numbers in Manhattan do not go as high as this

number.

4.

It would be appreciated if

results of this inquiry

could be

communicated to this offic

17 August 1964.

Willin

03

Desmond FitzGerald

Chief

Yestern

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded fram automatle

SIRs

---

