# 104-10192-10284

## Page 1

104-10192-10284

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

536

то

• DIRECTOR

HOM , LONDON

ACTIONA

1v 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

MRP

OC1, 0/D61, 00P,

CA/PPOP,

61, 61/0P8,

•cop 10 el 11/, 0, capes,

BELLS.

vM 16,.

VE T, 80/!(A), (A), 0011(6), 10/01, s/c2.

ROUTING

OCT 24 21312 68

ROUTINE

IN 11257

1003-3/490,978

DIR INTO CARA CITE LONO 8769

ANDRE ACTINO

• INTEL DIVOUR.

SUPDATA SOURCE BROTH) °1

TIME FILED 1310Z

NOFOON CONTINUED CONTROL DEL -30,995

CUBA

SUBJ STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY

001 OCTOBER 1961

PAO ENGLAND LONE OCTOBER THEN

SOURCE OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE) FROM "SOURCE WITH 0000

CONTACTS AMONA EXILES IN CARACAS".

TV COCUMENT

NO SEPARATE CARI DISTRSSUIION IS ALING MADE OF THIS TDOSI

UN RCO

52 VM/4/PH

vM/ AC

NE/R

LIUNTASY

2

NE/6/R

?/H/1/v

2

03/390

VN/L

121 м/р

RELEASE MA

DATE DISTRAUTED

BASED ON

spr selmey

24 OCTODER 2244 2 61

LAISONC

SECRET

ROMODUETION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIATED.

TDES

PRECEDENCE

XX I

ROUTINE

PRICANTY

061-30,99

NP/SHOTH | 01

Copy Na

3/030

---

## Page 2

ALIN, ORMATION REP RT AELECRAMS

CENTRAL INTELIIGENCS AGENCY

COLNITY

SECRET

NOFOR LON MA CONTROL OU

CUBA

MPORT NO TDOS - 3/490,978

BTATIMEHTS OF MADOLA RAY, EXILÀ LEADÇA

THE PROPIC'S RIMDLUTIOMARY MOYEMINT

DATASTE: 2À OCTOBER 1961

PRECEDIINCS

ROUTINE

REFERENCES:

D111257

Dan 0й

остовся. 1968

Акра

DATЯЛОЯ CHOLAHO, COHOON (28 OCTOBER 1961)

APPINGAL

DES HUNEYAUIATEO BORA

OM, SONTICE GRADIMES ALL DEFUNTIVE APPR

SOVE

COMFICIAL BRITION SCARIGO

FRON

"SOURCE VITH GOO0 CONTACTS

0ce-30,999

• ПЕНТАТИ

EXILES

AN CARACAS"

.24

lO: MANOLORAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUGIONARIO

DEL PUEBLO. (MRA - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN

EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSE TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA,

. INSISTINO THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO DE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL

RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STÁRTED.

1:::2. THI MRO WAS ORGANIZEO THROUEHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED

BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33

TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUSHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.

RAY ESTIMATEO 8O PERSONT OF POPULATION HERE DSPOSED TO CASTRO,

THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO, HE CUNSIDERED THE MRP AT

PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

CLASSiF

ICATION - DIISEMIMATION CONTROL

SECRET

NOFORN CORTINUED COMIRAL

STATE

SACIES 1 PiSA

NIC i Use

245

TREASURY

ASP INCLANS

TELEGRA

I INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

DISAMURATSN CONTROL

NOFCES/CONTENDED CONTROL

TOOS - 3/490,978

HAD AGAINST BATISTA.

30 THE MRP. WAS PRESENTLY SHORT OF ARMS. AND EXPLOSIVES BUT THE

POSITION WAS IMPROVINÓ. (A MILITIA CAPTAIN WAS RECENTLY

SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS IN PRISON FOR PASSINE ARMS TO THE MR°).

NO HELP WHATSDEVER MAD BEEN RECEIVED 8Y THE INTERNAL RESISTANOE

FRONI THE "SOURCES IN THE UNITED STATES, WHO PROVIDED SUPPORT.

FOR THE INVASION". THESE-SOURCES WERE STILL THINKINO

INEFFECTUALLY IN TERMS OF A FURTHER INVASION.

4. THE GENERAL ATTITUDE OF THE RESISTANCE IN CUBA TOWAROS

THE EXILES HAS ONE OF. INDIFFERENCE MOUNTING TO CONTEMPT FOR

SPECIFIC MOVES SUCH AS: THE PROPOSEO PROMOTION OF A CUBAN COVT

IN EXILE: WHAT THE RESISTANCE VANTEO WAS FUNDS AND THE RETURN,

BY INFILTRATION, OF TRAINED EXILES, PARTICULARLY COMMUNICATION

EXPERTS.

"5.. ON THE TIMING OF CASTRO'S OVERTHRON, RAY SAID CASTRO WOULD

NOT LAST ANOTHER YEAR. HE ADDED THAT THE SITUATION IN CUBA

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CASTRO'S DONNFALL HOULD OF DANGEROUS AND COULO

DEVELOP INTO A. CIVIL WAR.

FIELO DISSEM, STATE. CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

• 11257.

pray. 2

SENETRET

ENO OF MESSAGE

,CONTROLS

COATINIED CONROL

---

