# 104-10107-10195

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10107-10195,-

- 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DANIEL

FLORES

---

## Page 2

4-00000

i ..

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

OGC 75-4191

13 November 1975

Personal and Confidential

The Honorable Barnard F. Jennings

Senior Judge, Circuit Court for

Fairfax County

4000 Chain Bridge Road

Fairfax, Virginia 22030

Dear Judge Jennings:

An employee of this Agency who falls within that special category

of employees that members of my office have previously discussed with

you has been summoned for jury duty at Circuit Courtroom #6, Fairfax

County Courthouse, commencing 17 November 1975. It is my understanding

that you believe such employees should not serve on a jury.

The employee is identified by a copy of his jury summons returned

under separate cover and, as previously agreed, we ask that this letter

and the name of the employee not be joined together. Mr. Edmund Cohen

of my office will be pleased to explain the circumstances further if you

desire. He can be reached at the follo..ing number: 351-5648.

We appreciate your efforts on our behalf.

Sincerely,

Hots. Crannie

John S. Warner

General Counsel

OGC: ECohen: aam

Distribution:

Original - Addressee (delivered by courier 11/13/75)

1 JURY DUTY

I - EC signature file

1 - Chrono

NOTE: Per GMBreneman's call to Mrs. Chesty,

Judge Jenning's secretary, Mr. Daniel Flores

has been excused from jury duty. Sandy called

Mr. Flores with this message.

Alyce 11/14/75

III

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON.

ENTIAL

SUBJECT: (Opironall

Daniel Flores

- Jury Summons

FROM:

Frank Stewart

OS/ EAB

TO: (Officor designation, room number, and

building)

1.

OGC

7Đ07-

2.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

Гно.

7720

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

16 275-4023

11/7/75

7 NOV 75

COMMENTS (Numbos doct comment lo show from whom

so whom.

Drom a line ocross column ofter each comment.)

To 1.

Request OGC action Re

attached.

5.

11.

12.

13.

OS/EAB

4E 33

15.

PREVIOUS

610 U FOTIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

II>

attails ince - metastimatatio

---

## Page 4

TO . :..

THRU:

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIAlE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

DATE

DIRECTOR OF. SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

(Seal, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)

7 November 1975

Chief LA/COG

Chlot ta Security Ou

'AME, ANO GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Prins

COMPONENT

ROOM NO. AND BLOG.

PHONE

FROM:

Daniel Flores GS-12

LA/COG

3D5325

7144

.

DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY

FOR WHICH

APPROVAL 15

REQUESTED INCLUCING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIOUALS

CONCERNED.

DATES.

LOCALE, ETC.

(Refer to HR 10-7 before completing)

On 29 October 1975 I received a summons from the Circuit Court

of Fairfax County, Virginia to serve on jury duty beginning

17 November 1975 for two months.

I am presently (under Department of State cover (nominal), Request

32

REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS

MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED

CIA

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

3. COMMENTS

AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF, DIVISION

OR OFFICE HEAD

and D

REQUESTING EMPLOYEE

CONCUR: 11/7/75

DATE

Зміст ПАнку

IGNATUREAOI

FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN GRANTED,

DENIED)

FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

5.75 879 181

II3

CLASSITY AS APPROPRIATE

---

## Page 5

..

will or vincin"

TO:

i: to an orang of the circui: court of raiato. Ju., Virginia, received on

_1918, YOU A MOBY SUMMONED TO iNtend dod joey service for the

besiuning at Bi30 M on the Mülday of Novema, in Circuit courtroom

zu floor, fairfax County Courthouse, 4000 Chuin Briu dini, Fairfax, Va 22001.

.:Lions you may lave vili ie answered when you agort in due date. If any

ii! piecludes you fron ruporting as directed doori, minder call the Cierk of

.; office at 691-2227 or 691-2228.

Any correspoid::

incing to this summons

i Le directed to the Chief Circuit Court Julio De din:: County and not to üne

Picase cluck your milonge from your lion to tin duralouse and be prepared

divide to the Clerk of court your roundtris

no di inbursement purposes.

Fai

Cities of

-is Church

---

