# 104-10179-10167

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10179-10167

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

A RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

sfor. 64

3 January 1963

MEMORANDUN FOR : Chief, Special Affairs Stall

ATTENTION

: Ms. A. Rodriques

SUBJECT

: Radio Switch Equipment for Demolition

Firing Purposes

03 1. After our conversation on

he question was discussed with Mr.. Way Alpern, ISD/AOB, an

Ar. (Lee Poole, ISD/QRF. The following information if forwarder

for your cansideration as a result of our discussions.

companica Mr:lpern) Audio Operations Braschy recommenda iwo

as sources of équipnient of this nalure. These companies

have experience, under classified contracts with TSD, in producing

reliable equipment for apecial purposes of this sort. They also,

of course turn out commercial equipment a good quality for normal

communications acedo. These a npanies are:

2. (Motorola, Chicago, Illinois )

oNell, Cambridge, Massachusesta 29,08

The TSD VHF radio switch equipment for demolition needs was

developed for us by Motorola.

'Kell-Com' transistorized sets hav

een produced to mott the special needs (not for demolition purposes

of other SAS projecis.

3. In the opinion of both persons consulted, the expensés noted

• our first discussion should have produced a reasonable amount a

vorkable equipment it the source was both capable and reliable.

ISD recommende the use of frequencies in the VHF/VHF spectruma for

equipment of this sort and crystal tuning control for reasons of reliabilty.

selectivity and rejection of spurious signalo.

1. Inexpeasire equipment of Japanese or American manufacture

in the citizent band frequency ranges for 8oy8, radio control devices,

6/pv

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

Page Two

short range communications, etc., is available from many

manufacturers. Our Quick Reaction Facility can produce a

small number of radio switches based on tbese devices with a

considerably lesser degree of security from false signal triggering

with a lead time of 6 to 8 weeks, Simple mechanical protection

againat accidental triggering can be gained by inclusion of counting

switches, for example, which require a preset number of firing

impulses intentionally transmitted to produce the final closure of

& relay and firing of a charge.

5. Reliability of operation in terme of response to a

transmitted signal of a given power is quite difficult to predict when

conditions of antenna length, orientation and exposure cannot be

foreseen. Location of the receiver in a target building will also have

a strong bearing on 'range' from the transmitter. Building construction,

intervening obstacles and interference from other nearby radio fre

quency sources will affect performance of the set.

6. Il you wish to discuss the problems in greater depth,

we recommend a conference with audio 'echniciane or engineera.

It may serve to clarily the appropriate haracteristics which special or m

modified commercial equipment shoulu possesa to meet the needs of your

operation. Pidblems of camouflaging the explosive or incendiary material

to serve operational requirements would be minor compared to the

necessary consideration of effecta on the receiver switch concealed

within which could have important effecte on performance.

Distribution:

2-C/SAS

---

