# 104-10121-10366

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10121-10366,

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR

APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Alwaye handcarry l copy of thie form)

CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

DATE

FROM:

7 October 1959

NE/ 2/ Jordan

1205 1 x3203

Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT:

(True name)

Robert A. Maheu

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES

PROJECT

CI/OA FILE NO.

RI 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT NAME CHECK

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

SPECIAL INOUIRY (SO fiold invoatidation)

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

U.S. and Jordan

FULL DETAILS OF USE

May be employed by the King of Jordan to handle Jordanian public relations

in the U.S.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S, GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

IS OR MILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN MIMT

YES

YES

NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

Per discussion with Mr. J. O'Connell, sufficient Security Office investigation

has already taken place.

IF NO INVESTIGATION

OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO I. OR EQUIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED

PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS Available at OS

PRO 1I WILL BE FORMARDED

GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO:

FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD

DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED, WITH EVALUATION

WILL BE FORWARDED

NO INFORMATION OF VALUE

NOT INITIATED (Explanation) has not been in

area

NO RECORD

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

RECORD

I X NON-DEROGATORY

DIVISION TRACES

(Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

RECORD

X NON-DEROGATORY

DEROGATORY

NO RECORO

DIRMATUNE OF CASE OFFICER

James E. Burkart

5r022

DEROGATORY

03

William R. Freeman

SECRET

---

