# 104-10326-10039

## Page 1

AAA

1104-10326-100:

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

97-6569968

- SENSEND

SECRET

RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE :

1

F'RP :

,2,

STAFF

ACTION: LA/CAGRR (147) INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEGLA, CIC/LA, DDO/WO, IID,

IIDIRPS, LA/CAGAB,

LA/RR, LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODD, ODPR, RYBAT,

FILE, C/LA, DC/LA (3/W)

97 6569968

ASP

TOR:

PAGE 001

102355Z JAN 97

IN 6569968

BOGO 72820

SE CRE T 102350Z JAN 97 STAFE

CITE BOGOTA 72820

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/CAGRR INFO LA/CAGAB, CIC/LA, LA/RR, IID

SLUGS: WNINTEL INTEL ZRWAHOO LWDISSEM

SUBJECT: ACCOMPANYING OPS CABLE FOR HLB-15257

REF: A. BOGOTA

B. BOGOTA 72819

97 6569966 (HLB-15257)

TEXT:

1.

ACTION REQUIRED:

REQUEST UPGRADE OF GIDARK/56'S ACCESS

DESCRIPTION,_ PER-PARA-THREE-BELOW

52. GIDÄRK/56 (D/56) COLLECTED REE INFORMATION IN THE COURSE OF

HER DUTIES AS PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO DIRECTOR OF COLOMBIAN ARMY

INTELLIGENCE JAIRO DURAN ( (PINEDA) ) NINO.

D/56 RECEIVED THE REMARKS

ON WHICH REF IS BASED DURING LATE DECEMBER CONVERSATIONS WITH COI

PINEDA, INCOMING INTEL CHIEF COLONEL REYNALDO ' (CASTELLANOS) )

DIRECTLY EROM GENERAL MANUEL ((BONETT)) D/56> HEARD BONEIT'S COMMENT

*ABOUT DEA'S INVOLVEMENT IN THE-KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>DIRECTLY FROM

HIM DURING TOAT DESER MEETING O/S ANON TO ONES

(D/56 ALSO SPOKE TO BONETT'S

‹ (BEDOYA)) .

D/56 SPEAKS TO HARA AND PINEDA REGULARLY IN THE COURSE

JOF HER NORMAL, DUTIES AND D/56 SPOKE TO BONETT AND BEDOYA IN LATE

DECEMBER HOLIDAY PARTIES.

D/56 PASSED REF TO C/O STOCKMIER ON & JAN

9 DURING A REGULARLY SCHEDULED OPS MEETING.

REF PROPOSED SOURCE DESCRIPTION UPGRADES D/56'S ACCESS FROM

INDIRECT TO GOOD. D/56 TOLD C/O STOCKMIER THAT SHE KNOWS NEW ARMY

INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR CASTELLANOS, HAS SPOKEN TO HIM, AND HAS

ACCEPTED HIS OFFER TO KEEP EMPLOYING HER AFTER PINEDA LEAVES FOR

MOSCOW IN COMING WEEKS.

GIVING THIS CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT, WE THINK

HER ACCESS IS FAIRLY DESCRIBED AS GOOD IN REPORTS ABOUT THE ARMY.

IN

REPORTS ABOUT OTHER NON-ARMY TOPICS WE PROPOSE CONTINUED USE OF

"INDIRECT" ACCESS IN HER SOURCE DESCRIPTION.

4.

REF IS ORCON BECAUSE IT HAS REMARKS MADE PRIVATELY BY BONETT

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

_SECRET

-97-6569968

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE:

HIMSELE, AND ACCESS TO SENIOR OFFICERS WHO ARE CLOSE TO BOTH BONETT

AND BEDOYA

FILE:

GIDARK/56. CL BY 2171434; CL REASON 1.5 (C) ; .

DECL

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

2

SECRET

---

