# 104-10059-10026

## Page 1

1104-10059-10026

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ip:

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

CONFI.

ENTIAL

SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/CCS

Indications of the Scope and Possible Damage

of New Allegations by Ramparts Magazine

EXTENSION

NO: .

9328

DATE

GH 56 HQS

5071

25.

November 1968

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS: (Number each comment to show from whom

lo whom. Drow a line, across column after each commont.)

1.

C/CIOP/DO

•2 B 23 AQS

ATTENTION:

Mr. - Richard Öber

2.

BY

'HAND

3. Pil

Sub Hers

•?!

8s.

6B - 1907

6.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SENSITIVE

SECRET

8.

10.5

14

15.

FORM

: 3-62

610 SOs SECRETA

I CONFIDENTIAL.

INTERNAL*

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2% NO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nọt Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

THROUGH:

Assistant Beputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:

Indications of the Scope and Poasible

Damage of Ney Allegations by Pauparts

Magazine

1. This memorandus is furnished for information only.

2.

Carly in April 1968 the Cifice of the General Cou-

sel nade available to Central Cover Stall (CCS) a copy of a

letter and an attached liat of organizations sent to tbe

Internal Reyenue Service (IRS) by Hr. Jon Prappier of Ram

parts bagazine.

The letter, dated 5 April 1968, had been

furnished OGC through IRs liaison channels.

The letter appended

a list of 145 tar-exempt organizations and

indicated that all

were suspected of kavlng bees funded by or having cooperated

with CIA.

3.

The letter indicated that the listed organizations

were only a part of the organizations being scrutinized by

Ramparts and that other available sources of Information on

these and other suspect organizations had already been examined.

The other sources of taformation mere stated as including the

Ilterature of the organizations and interviews with their staff

members; records avallable in the Attorney General's offices

In Illinois, Massachusetts, and Ney York; data avallable at

the National Intoraation Bureau In New York, Group Research,

Inc., in Washington, D.C., and the Foundation Library Centers

1n New York and Mashington; and the 990-A returna available at

the district offices of the IRS. The letter requested 990-A

03979

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SE ASI

Icturns ior specialed years and in most cases the form 1023

Application for Tax Exempt Status.

Ramparts asked the IRS

to make these naterlals avallable for inspection at a mutu

ally convenient time.

1. A revier of available CIA data on the listed organi-

rations has soown that 39 of then were at one time or another

sonehow associated with CIA. Only two of these:

are of current operational interest. These two activitles

and 45 organizatloas fornarly of Interest to CIA vero men-

tloned in the Anerican press during MHDONEL O Forty-tID

other listed organizations which vere in lact associated

•with CIA vere not exposed during MaLoYEL.Ul lie have found no

evidence that 55 organizations onthe li3t vero ever directly

or indirectly associated with CIA. (Because two oi the names

on the list are successive names for the sane organization,

the actual total number of organizations listed 1s 114 rather

Three additional project organizations, not

included in the Raparts list, may be vulnerablo because

they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed foundation

funding instruments included in the list. Only one of these,

is of cur

rent operational interest.

.5.

The CA Stall was furnished a copy of the Rasparts

letter and list and has checked out the organtzations of

possible previous CA Stail Interesi. All organizations not

readily identifiable with knows project organizations or as

Ces funding instrumenta have been traced with RID, with CS

area divisions that night logically have bad an interest in

tiem and agalust COS Registry Illes. Through arrangements

with the IRS, representatives of COS and OGC also examined

available IRS data (999-A'3 and Iorms 1023) on the listed

organizations.

Thia tas done before the IRS documents vero

made available to Ramparts, in order to be sure that restiicte

S90-A, Part I data would not be turnished to Ranparts and to

try to establish the reasons for Ramparts' interest In the

organizations.

Our current findings are the results of these

various file

roviews.

Attached hereto are annexes listing and discussing

the several categories of organizations on the Ramparts list.

Annex A deals with the two organizations on the list which

are still of active operational interest. Both received

---

## Page 4

14-00000

26 9802005

-3-

press mention during NHLOWsy.

Annex B lists and discusses

under several sub categories the 42 organizations with which

the Agency has had sone direct or indirect operational tles

In the jast which vere not cited in the pross duringlula- Ol

BONEL.

Annex C lists the 45 organizations included in the

April 1968 list which had former Agency operational ties

which were subject to press allegations during MHDOWEl.Ul Annex

D lists and briefly discusses the 55 organizations Included

In the Ramparts Ilst that had no known operational connection

wIth CIA.

Annex I lists and discusses three hitherto uner-

posed operational activities that are not included in the

April 19bo Ramparts list but which are vulnerable because

they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed funding tastru-

ments included In the Ramparts 11st.. Annex E showg a copy of

the jull Aprtl 1968 Ramparts list.

7. The 42 tormer project organizations listed and des

cribed

at annex. B which have not previously been charged "ith

CIA assoclation In American press comment fall into five

general

categories:

a. Foundations and other organizations used as

itting funding conduits for covert subsidies to pro

ject organizations and other operational sctivities.

Sixteen organizations fall into this category. Eleven

of then are suitipurpose legitinate toundations. waich

were roculted by CCS. Four were created or recruited

for exclusive use in funding one project each and one

was used for a one tina travel grant.

b.. M1tt1ng logitimate foundations and organiza-

zions used exclusively to provido junding and status

cover for singleton agents.

six organizations were

used in this way and provided cover for seven agents

1n various parts of the vorld.: Some of these organi-

zations also provided one-time support for unwitting

Individuals of operational interest.

Proprietary of suonidy project organisations.

There are six of these: Projecta CAMANTILLA! @WUHUSTLER,U

FOCLPROOF, ETHANABLE, SGPANFISH, and ABSTRIKER).

01

d. Three organizations with which there nere

witting operational contacts to obtain Information

and leads but which were not actively involved opera-

tionally.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

99778T

Eleven unwitting organizations which received

grants fron project organtzations for operational or

cover reasons or which cooperated with project organi-

zations.

He cannot aay with complete nssurance that all 55

of the apparently innocent organizationg on the Ramparts

Iist in fact never had any Agency ties.

Our researches bave

shown that RID Indices are often Incomplete.

We have found

operational use data in CCS files on organtzations with no

record in RID.

The same is true in other cases where infor

mation was avallable in CA Staff or area division flles on

organizations which drew a blast in RID. It seems likely,

however, that any undetected operational interest in the

organizations was in the period of the early 1950's and of a

sarginal nature.

9.

In reviering avallable intornation on the listed

organizations ve attempted to deternine whether there was a

logical external basis for Ramparts' interest in the organt-

zations or whether sona form of Internal Agency leak might

be involved. Our reviews and analysis shor falrly conclu

sively that Banparts has been proceeding on the basis of

overtly available information, supplemanted by interviews

with project personnel:

All but three of the 18 terminated but hither

to unexposed project organizatlong and 24 of the 55 or

gantzations which actually had no Agency ties are sone-

how related to project organizationg or funding lastru

ments previously exposed. Some of the organizations

made legitimate or covert grants to previously exposed

organizations, others received covert or legitimate

grants fron previoisly exposed funding instruments or

fron innocent foundations that had made legitinate

grants to exposed organizations, and still others had

officers tho were associated with exposed CIA organt

zations.

Thirty-one innocent organizations on the

Ranparts list and three of the hitherto unexposed

organizations of lormer interest to the Agency have.

no such known ties to exposed Agency organizations.

In most of these cases, however, the names of the

organizations are similar to those of exposed organ-

izations or are of a nature that makes then suspect.

029917

---

## Page 6

14-00000

FROSTERE

ELAt

19.. It seems likely that Ramparts' interest la a nun-

ber of the 42 unexposed project organizations is based on

factors unrelated to the actual ClA dealings with then.

11. The Headquarters elements that are or vere responsi

ble for the projects and activities that could be implicated

by ney Ramparts allegationa have been notified of the fore

going rindings.

No further action la required at this time.

faces tates!

03

CHARLES KATEK

Chief, Central Cover Staff

Attachnents

(Annexes)

ce:

C/CA

C/CI

XC/CIOP/DO

C/FI/OPS

03

DDP/OPSBR/CCS/PRG/uP111sbury: f1

S5303T05

37

(5071/9328)

ZIBR

---

## Page 7

14-00000

6#0: 90-701 190-90

...s

iwi.u

9.99÷

5:,.

- 9-

28.

ID.

Three Organizations with Which There Have Been Some

H1tting Contacts

29.

30.

International Rescue Conaittee, Inc. (IRC) - Manhattan,

New York (93)

Under Project QKGAUNT, $2,500 was furnished INC In

1350 - 1951 to obtala biographic data on defectors.

December 19os, IRe Chairman Leo Cherne offered cover ano

FI use of InC to hamons Brown,

DE/CA. Ches deciined

the ofier, indicating there already were useful contacts.

Inc received legitinate grants iron J. Frederick Brown

roundation (34) and 3. N. Kaplan Fund (101).

31.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

262 NOW i.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

THROUGH:

Assistant Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:

Indications of the scope and Possible

Damage of Non Allegationa by Ramparte

Magazine

1. This memorandun 1s furnished for Information only.

2. Early in April 1968 the Office of the General CouD-

sel nade avallable to Central Cover Staff (CCS) a copy of a

letter and an attached liat of organlzations sent to the

Internal Revenue Service (IR8) by Mr. Jon Frappler of Ran

parts Magazine.

The letter, dated 5 April 1968, had been

furnished OCC through IRS liaison Channele.

The letter appended

a list of 145 tax-exempt orgaulzations and indicated that all

were suspected of having been funded by or having cooperated

with cla.

S. The letter Indicated that the lIsted OrganIIAtIOnS

vere only a part of the organizations belug scrutinized by

Ramparts and that other avallablo sources of Inforuation on

these and other suspoet organiastions had already been exanined.

Hotter of be breath

The other sources of Information vere stated an Including the

Ilterature of the organisations and Intervlews with their staff

members; recorda avallable in the Attoraey General's offices

In Lllinoss.

the National Information Bureau in New York, Group ReBBArCH,

InC., In Hagh1ngt0D,

In New York and Mashington; and the 99D-A returns avallable at

the district offices of the IRS. The letter requested 990-A

in timi

Side said

"gu.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

-2on

returns for specified years and in most cases the form 1023

Application for Tax Exenpt Status. Ramparts asked the Ils

to make these materials avallable for Inspection at a nutu

ally convenient time.

A. A review of available ClA data on the listod organi-

zations has shown that 89 of them vere at one ting or another

conchor associated with CIA. Only tro of there linatitute 79,24,01,24

for International Youth Affairs (CA/BS ProJeCt RETROM) and...

African-Amertoan Labor Center, Inc. (CA/BA Project ORSTUMP)?

are of current operational interest.

These two actiulties

and 45 orgaulzations formerly of Interest to ClA pere men

tioned in the American preas during MIDOHEL. lIPOrty-two

other listed organizations which vert in fact assoclated

/ with CIA were not exposed during WHolEl, lIe have found no

evidence that 55 organizations on the lift were ever directly

OF IBUITBOLLY DASOCIATEd MITA CLA. (iACRUBE tHO OL the IRMCE

on the lint are successive unmes for the sane arganisation,

the actual total number of organisations llated 11 141 rather

than 145.) Three additional project organizations, not

Included in the Rauparts 11st, may be vulnerable because

they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed foundation

funding intrunents Included In the l1st.. Only one of these,

World Veterans Federation

(CA/33 Project TIGLARE)) 18 01 CUT-

Font operational interest. 29,01,24

5.

the ca staff man suralahed & copy of the Ramparts

letter and list and has checked out the organtzations of

posalblo previous CA Stalf Interest. All organisations not

readily Identifiable with known projoct organizations or as

CoS funding instruments have been traced with RID, u1th CB

aros dvisions that might logloally have had an interest In

them and against OCS Registry 1lles. Through axrangeneate

with the IRs, representatives of Cos and OGC also examined

avallablo IRS data (990nl's and Jorus 1023) on the llated

organizations.

made avallable to RAspBstE, In order to be nure that restrleted

990-A, Part I data would not be furniahed to Ramparta and to

try to establish the reasons for lampesta, Interest in the

organiestions: Our current findinga are the resulta of these

VAriOUS 111e reVIeWE.

&. attached herato are annexes listing and discussing

the several categorios of organizations on the Ramparts llet.

Annex A deals with the two organizations on the list walch

BIe st1ll of active operational Intorest. Both recolved

SE STUNE

HIBR

---

## Page 10

14-00000

FEISITIVE

preas mention during IMHDOwsi.

ARDeX B liats and discusses

under several sub-categories the 12 organizations 11th which

the Ageney has had sone direct of indirect operational ties

In the past which were not cited in the press duringlut ol

DONEL,

Annex C liats the 4s organizations Included In the

Apx1l 1968 11st which had former Agency operational ties

which vere subjeet to press allegations during HHDOWEL. U Annex

I llats and brlefly discusses the 55 organizations Included

Annex & liats and discusses three hitherto uner-

posed operational actlulties that are not included In the.

April 1988 Ramparts Iist but which are vulnerable because

they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed funding lastru-

ments Included In the Ramparts llet. Annex & shots a copy of

the full April 1868 Ramparts lint.

The 42 former project organtrations llated and des

general categories:

a. Foundations and other organizations used as

witting funding conduits for covert subsidies to pro.

jeet organtzations and other operational activities.

Sixtoen organizations fall into this category. Eleven

of them are multipurpose legitinate foundations. which

were reculted by ces.

Four were created or recruited

for exclusite use 1n

fundiag one project each and ose

was used far a one time travel grant.

W1tt1ng legitimato foundations and orgaulza-

tions used exclusively to provide fuadial and status

cover for singleton agenta.

81X DIgADINAtIONS HATe

used in thia may and provided cover sor seves agente

11 VArIous parts Of the norld. Sono of theso organlo

satlons also provided onentime support for untitting

induiduala of operational laterest.

d. Three organization uith which there vere

"Itting operational contacto to obtain Infomation

and leads but which mere not actively involved opera

tiona11y.

Mila: TraN

q/BR

---

## Page 11

14-00000

CENSITIVE

Do Bazaa

SECIET

Eleven unwitting organizations which received

grants fron project organizations for operational or

cover reasons or which cooperated ulth project organt-

sations.

8. He cannot aay "ith complete assurance that all 55

of the apparently Innocent organizations on the Ramparts

Ilet in fact never had any Agency ties. Our researches have

shown that RID Indices are often Incomplete.

We have found

operational use data in CCS I1les on organizations with no

The same ls true in other cases where infor

mation was avallable in ca staff or area divlaion flleg on

organizations which drew a blank In RID. It seems Ilkely,

that any undetected operational Interest in the

organIzatIons was in the period of the carly 1950'e and of a

marginal nature.

9.

In revieNIng avallable inforsation on the listed

organizations ve attempted to deterine whether there vas a

logical external basis for Ramparts' interest in the organt-

zations or whether sone form of Internal Agency leak might

be involved. Our reviews and analysis shou fairly conclu

sively that Ramparts has been proceeding on the basis of

overtly available information, supplemented by interviers

w1th project personnel:

I. All but three of the 4? terminated but hither

to unexposed project organizations and 24 of the 55 or

gantzations which actually had no Agency ties are some

hon related to project organizations or funding lastru

ments previously exposed. Some of the organizations

made legftinate or covert grants to prevlously exposed

organizations, othera received covert or legitimato

granta fIOn preVIOUSly exposed fUndInE InsITURentA OT

Iron innocent foundationa that had nado legitiante

sTents to exposed organizatIon, and still others had

officora tho sore sasoclated with exposed CIA organt-

2a11018.

b. Thirty-one innocent organizations on the

Rasperts list and three of the hitherto unexposed

organizations of forner interest to the Agency bave

no such known tles to exposed Agency organizations.

Lu most of these cases, however, the names of the

oxBanInAtiOns are similar to thORe of exposed

organ.

Izations or are of a nature that makes then suspect.

BRAABOR

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

10. It seems Ilkely that Ramparte' interest in a num-

ber of the 42 unexposed project organizations 1s based on

factors unrelated to the actual CIA dealings with them.

11. The Headquarters elements that are or were responsi

ble for the projects and actiulties that could be implloated

by new ramparts allegations have been notified of the fores

going findings.

No further action 1a required at this time.

Charles Hatch

03

CHARLES KATEK

Chies, Central Cover Stall

Attachmente

(Annexes)

ec: C/CA

C/CI

XC/CIOP/DO

C/FI/OPS

...'

DDP/OPSIR/CCS/PRC/WAP1118burJ: 11

SENSITIVE

(5071/9328)

ZiBR

---

## Page 13

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed

or named organizations 1n Annexes A through E are the

1tem numbers or organizationa included in the 5 April

1968 Ramparts list (Annex F).

---

## Page 14

14-00000

ANNEX A

ORGANIZATIONS ON 5 APRIL 1968 RAMPARTS LIST

THAT ARE OF CURRENT OPERATIONAL INTEREST

1. African-American Labor Center, Inc., (AALC), Manhattan,

New York (?) 0$

24,01,06

CA/B4 Project GRSTUMP. IIving Brown (T) continues as

AALC] Executive Director and unes this rolationship as

status cover for operational travels in African and Iu- 10

rope, Althougs covert.

funding of AALC]has been suepended, 29

24,Ub

black-bag payments to Brown and by him to operational

contacts may be implicity attributed to AALG, 29

[ALC received press publielty during upolet

06-

BrOWn

was named as a CIA agent in the Braden Saturday Eventag

post article.

29

Institute for International Youth Affairal, Manhattan,

New York (ILYA) (79)) 08

(CA/BS Project QiTROw).

Under Katzenbach guidelines

and DIP decistons, (IIYA] was to be re-established abroad 24

as a condition for contiuuation of the project. Varlous

possibllition la turopo have been explored and vetoed.

stepa are currently being taken to relocate the activit

1n BelgIun! I

[IYA recoived linited press sention during MHDOWEL and

only in the context of 1ta Pree Europe Committeel or1gtne29

and 1ts forner funding by the International Development 29

Foundatioil (terainated Wl Project (JOALIBI) (88).

LIYA in vulnerable because of its former funding by

the Colt (41) and Ronthelya (129) Foundations, as well 29,29

as by the Helena Rubinstein Foundation] (not on the 5 April29

1968 list but of known Intorest to Rauparts) and by the

21,2(Forence 198) and ". Alton Jones (99) Foundationa (exposed

during MHDOWEL).

01

ZZ/SR

---

## Page 15

14-00000

/

ORALITIVE

SECRET

ANNEX

B

FORTY TWO PREVIOUSLY UNEXPOSED ORGANIZATIONS

WITH FORMER CIA OPERATIONAL TIES

A.

Sixteen Witting Condulte Uned for Attributed Covert

Subsidy Funding

1. [Brants Foundation - unite plaini, der Tork (32)

08

CCs-recrufted legitimate foundation (IPCORSEI/691.

Used in 1984 fOr &

covert grant to the unexposed Free 11

dom Fund, Inc. (61), and in 1965 for a covert grait to the

exposed (International Development Foundation (88):

Ls the family foundation of Jean and Harvey Picker! Jean ol

Picker was preaident of the exposed Committee of Corres?

pondence (44)) (CA/B3 Project (JEPERVENT).

2. (Col? Foundation, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (41)

cos-recruited legItImate fouadatIon (LiCORSLI/24).

UNBO 1950 • 1966 for covert granta to the joLLowing

exposed project organtzations: lAMSAC (24) (TPFOUART), C1,01

BLE).

29,10

Little Foundation, Wiloughby - Providence, Rhode Island

(107)]

CCs- recrusted legittanto foundation (LFCORBRT/ 32), 21

Used 1961 = 1964 for covert grants to exposed lANSAC) (24)

' (TFFOUMART), IDE (88) (ARBEND/VOALIBI) and AAI (1)

(TOPLUENT/ERFLUENT) • 29, 24,01,01

SECRET

ZUISR

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

=2-

29

1. Magovan Family Foundation - Manhattan, New Yorl (108))

and the unexposed SEI (132) (ETNAMABLE). 21,01

5.

Tude i Foundation - Greenwich, connecticut (110) 10

ccs recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/43)).

Used 1981 - 1985 for covert grants to the exposed AAI

29 AAL) (1) publietty brochure.

6. Humada] Youndation - Manhattan, How York (113)

(TPTONÍC)

01

bursed by Patman-exposed sasel and Beacon.

7. Clundation, pencer T. and An W. - Alton, 1111no1a29, 29, 10*

(117)]

01

COS recrusted legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/6). Ol

2411Uged 1958 - 1966 for covert grants to exposed (TPTONIC))

and IDE (88) (QRBEND/UALIB]) and the unexposed #VF 29

but this was the John 011n Foundation ?

DI (LFCORSIT/131 which le not on the Ramparts list. Spencer 29

T. and Aan W. Ol1n was reimburned 1958

- T963 by CCS instru

monte exposed by fatman) in 1064.

8. [Bobrody Roundation, Janen $) - kanbatten, Non Tork {1283118

coB-recrulted legitimate foundation (LFCORSEI/43).

9. (Ronthelyn Charitable Trust - Boston, Massachusetts (128)) 29,10

CCs-recrusted legitimate foundation (UPCOrlstT/54)).

1B00 1964 - 1906 10r COvert Granta tO the exposed OPi (119)L

(LPCORSET/75 JMTUBA/LULXTEND, Ald (17) (OU/BARU, 19

(88) (QRBEND/VOALIBI), PAP (122) (JMPOPLAR/10), FISEE

(65) (QRSENSE/KNOCHROID), IIYA (79) (ARTROR), AMSAC (24)

29,24,29,2929, 01,01,

DO UN SENSITIVE

SECRET

42/BR

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SASTRIVE

SECRET

-3-

01

29,01

(TPFOUMART), and CCT

(KOPERA), and the unexposed Free-

Inc. (61) (AEMIRROR/WUHUSTLER).

10. [sonnabend Foundation - Boston, Masaachusette (133) 29, 10:

CCs-recruited legitinate Loundation [LPCORSET/40).

11. 100ed 1902 - 1966 for Covert grante to the exposed AAd (1)04

(YAFLUENT/QRELUENT) .

'IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI).

11. Bunnen Foundation - Haplewood, Mianourt (135)] 29,10

cos-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORBET/29).

29,210901

used 1861 • 1960 for covert grants to the exposed aal. aLi

(TOFLUENT/ORFLUENT), CC (44) (JETERVENT), IDP (88> (ORBEND/)

TANG/ZRCANNY)] and to the unexposed (BBI (132)

(HTNAMABLE)

and HSI (ZROCCUR/PASHELL).

29,29,01,01

12. Homeland Poundation, Inc. - Manhattan, New Tork (74))

cC8-recrulted legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/35) used

1962 - 1966 exclualvely for covert grants to FICD (64) 29

(NSFLUFFER)."l Its tles to PICD vere presumably learned from

10 ({111n018]state recorde.

13. (Inatitute for International Order, Inc. - Manhattan,

New York (78)) 08

• 0.1

CCS-recrutted legitinate foundation (LPCORSET/5)

used once in 1958 for a covert grant tO CC (41) (JBFERVENT). 29, U1

2'The (Institute)made legitimate granta to WVY (TPGLARE), 24,U1

loverseas Iducation Jund of League of Momen Voters (120),

Institute of International Education (82), and Institute

for Soc1a1 Selence Research (81). 29, 29,29

14. (American Heritage Foundat10d) - Manhattas, Her Tork (18)

Legltinato foundation recruited by former IO DiVISIOn

¿129laa a funding condult and lund raleing organization for

LFEC (TPTONIC) and TAT (DIPILLAR), both nentloned during

01 /MHDONEZ.

Used (1n early 1950'4.01 Goneral #. Bedell Snith

(former DCI) (became president of the Foundation 1a 1955. 08

SEAISITIVE

SECRET

36/БK

---

## Page 18

14-00000

law: orda!

29

15.

[Council on Race and Caste In World Affairg, Inc. -

Manhattan, New York (18) 08

24

Proprietary funding condult establlahed by CA/BJ for

covert funding of the exposed AMSAC (24) (TPFÓUMART), 29,01

16. [overmental Alinirs Institute (GAI) - Mashinston, D.C.

(685/08

Legitinate organization recruited by CCS for one- time

witting use In 1951 to handle the U.S. travel arrangemente

for a visiting (Indonesian, delegation under an FE|project. 2y

The travel was ostensibly sponsored by a law IITH, (I11-21

lon & Dillon, which reimbursed the linatitutely The Inst1-29

tute was subsequently uned on an unwitting working- level

basis as a conduit for funds attributed to the State 52

Department to support & Soviet realities brelling center

In New York City under SB Project ABCOHITAS

0629

GAI] is overtly tled to exposed organizations because

Kiripatrick of APSA (234 and OPR (119) (UNTUBA/ IUEXTEND) <1,01

06,71

and GuLick oi IPA (84) vere GAl board members.

CAT has 29

recgived legitimate grants fron the Carnegle Endoument

(35)).

29

B.

24

Six Witting Organizations Used as Status and Funding

Cover for stagleton Agents Abroad

17. (A1d Befugee Chinene InteLlectuale), Inc. (ARC) -

Manhattan, New York (5) 08

(long Konk branch of ARCI) was uned in the early 1950°%

3-11by Bong Kong Station as a source of leade. (ARCI] was 2

lisanged by State Department USEPIZ Through arrangemente

1960 under Project SIGATE.

POISSANT (P) received a leg1t1-0,06

mate (unreimbursed) (ARCI) salary supplemented by black-bag.

He was terminated 1u 1960.29

SEAS. /208

SECRET

3UBR

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SHAS TVE

434857

240715 925

18.

→5-

06,29

Mr. Travis L. Fletcher (T), ARCI field representative

I0fn Hong Kong, was reportedly a witting U.s. Army intel-

ligence source.

Anerican Korean Foundation, Inc. (AKF) - Manhattan,

New York (21) 08

Provided cover in Seoul

spotting and assessing students. PECKERMAN's (P) salary 24,05

was reimbursed by attorney James S. MeGoldrick of Shella 06,21

and McGoldrick.

CCS made the arrangenents.

PECKERMAN (P)J03

resigned from CIA in 1958 to Join the Foundation leg1t1-

nately.

29

Dr. Floward

29

Bush, president_of lAKE

was actively

aBBociated NIth FI/SIL PrOJeCt ULUNIL Ul He Was a1BO an

unwitting consultant tolvyt.

(TPGLARE)] and collaborated 24,01

1n a project to bring (Algerian)mar voterans to the U.S.

American Political Science Association (APSA), - Washing-

toR, D. C. (23908

Provided status cover (funding was by N-36,.

29

Academic

Research Society for Jonathan M. SMIGELON (P), a coni

tract employee, in washington, D."., April - November

195603 BM CEL PO subsequently served VitaLWVE (TPGLARS) 29,0l

and In Bangkok, Thailand! November - December

(01n Parts, 1957 - 1959, and with AfME (ZRTIND.R) In New 2)

York, 1982 - 1967. He was torminated at the end of 1967,

Casil served no the oatenible sponsor of travel by.

Vo Bex Bahadur Thapa (T) Iron California to s.C. lor the

July 1959 APE annual neeting. Funding was via other

channels.

Apsal van wed la October 1968 as the polat of contect

In D.C. for an Individual whose travel to the U.S. was

sponsored by TAf (DIPILdAR).

29,01

The Erecutive DIreCtOr Of APSA has long been Evron

J. M. Raplan Fund. (101).

176950

SECRET

55/BR

---

## Page 20

14-00000

Shas.0L

SECRET

20. Carnetle Endowment for International Peace] - Manbattan,

New York (35)] 08

Used on a negotiated basie la 1956 to provide an ou-

tensible grant to CAZAR for residence 1n Germany, Actual

payments were by black-bag.

29

Mado legitimate grants to Foreign Policy

Association

(59) and Governmental Affaira Institute (68)-21

27. Isadle Bast Infitute (MST) - Mashington, D.C. U3))

Provided CCS-negotiated cover for Geoffrey D. LIONAR (P) U6

IU1n Baghdad, Iragl, 1958 - 1961, supplementing & cover great

from the Institute of Publie Adniniatration (IPA (84) ?.

which was relmbursed by the exposed Marshall Poundation, 21

In turn roimburged by the Patuan exposed Beacon Fund, 29

O6 LEONDAR (P)] remained 10 Baghdad 1981 - 1963 under theid

cover of the subsequently exposed (IPA] (BA) aad the vul. 29

22.

t1ona1 covers.

He was denounced as cla by the vAi pressil

In 1964. He converted to a staff employee under nominal

Army civilIan cover in June 1967 for leadquarters duty.

29

10

ME] provided cover 1n Calro, 1960 - 1983, for Fred X.

NILDIN PJan Army employee under ACSI Project CRAZY- 0/

BONES.2] MEX| was reimbursed by CCS notional Acadenic Re- 29

search socfety](1-34).

Phelpg-stokes Fund

÷ 1485)

- Manhattan, New Tork [LPCORSET/23}

0S

Oaxants (86, 031) and 181, 0008I50m Phelps-Btokes, whichil

vore reimbursed by the ltDownteerposed Tomer

DS DAMASKUS (P) resigned Iron the Ageney in 1985.

Phelpa Stoken is listed as a cooperating group in an

AAT (1) (QRFLUENT) publielty brochure.

29,01

022AM27

72S3L TINE

SECAKE

43/SR

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SENSITIVE

C.

S1x Project Organizations

39. Emerican Blend of Resugees, Ine. KAT - lanbatta,

New York (13) 08

Instrumentality of Project ABMANTILLA/CABANTILIA, which

provided resettlement support of Defector Receptión Cen-

ter in Geraany, 29, 1P

06

The P/A, Augustus G. Elmendor! (I)e vas also an officer

Z'of the Tolatoy Foundation] (138) and'International Research 29, 0/

on Communist Techniques (05) (AESTRIKER). AFR vas funded

by the exposed San Jacinto sual.

29ª

AmerICan FTlOndE of Rusalan Freedon] - Manhattan, Now

Tork (74208

Former name of American Friends of Refugeed, Ine. (23).

(see abore.)

International Research

on Communist Techniquest (IRCT) -

Manhattan, Ner York (95) 0$

duces one otes to combat soutes

KIdnapping (CCSI) (AEPROCESS) which was established 1r

1954 at the Inttlative of Vladimir Budin, head of the ut

l American branch of the Russian enigro organization NIS, 29

Following the Khokhlov affali." (NIS was and 1a subal-2

•LEBO UNdEr SEICA PrOjOOt AFGIDION CCSK changed 1t82

21 Beared the soviet unes, which was distributed in the

1.8. and the lU.". to generato opposition to soviet acte

of violence.

11

06,29

06

In addition to Rudin, IRCTOIlicera Included Augustus

G. Elnendor! (T)) (who was algo associated with ArR] (12) ??

Ol Project CAMANTIMA) and the (Tolstoy Foundation 1138) 29

änd Eugene Lyons (T) (forner president of AmerIcan Com 29

mittee for Liberation of the peoples of the USSE) (PrO-

ject [QKÄCTIVSY/.0| Ita attorney was John f. B. Mitchell, 06

Ix.IT), former OGC staffer and currently the backstop

for Victoria Projectal, an entity under Do Project [WÜpSYCHE.

6549

PAN!

ETTER

41/BR

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

08

25. Treedom Pund, Ine. - Manhattan, New York (61)

Setablished under SB Project ERloR) and transferred'

around 1962 to DO as Project JUHUSTLER, Ul CIA support

terminated la 196%.

Headed fron Its Inception by Carl 06

T. Chadsey, Jr. (T), It was used unt1l 1981 as a funding

channel for the NI3 (Project AEGIDEON), as well as a pro

paganda outlet.

29,01

(Preedon Pund, Ine, was covertly funded by the Branta 29,24,29

(34) Renthelym (129), J. Frederick Brown (34), and

Milappas Foundationa. the latter two vere exposed durin.

MH DOWEL! JI

29,10

(International Research Inntitute, Inc, - Princeton,

Mo JOsseY (94)

This to probably a neu nane tor the lInternational 2%, 10

InstItute for social BeBeRICh (LISB) In PrINCetON, NeW

Jersey, which was cited In the New York Times on

09[26 october october as receiving tunds fron the subsequently

Zexposed Dearborn Foundation (18).21 (DeRrborn)provided

substantial covert fands, 1955 - 1962, to the Research? Y

Counc1], Inc. (as affillate of the PrINCetOn UNITerBItY IY

Office of Publie Opinion Research for IISR under 29

RQH/OIS PrOJeCt [FOOLPROOF POI

Incenth oDInIon BLudleg o

carried out by Lloyd Free (T)Pand Hadley Cantril (T) O

in selected countries throughout the vorld.

In 19B1, through a clerical error, Dearbora (49) L

checks for FOOLPROOF. and HTILAMABLE] (Bee below) mere

versed, nakiag there organization mutually tittlag.

27. [sclon$181e EngineerIng

Toütitute, Inc. (B81) - Cambridge,

Massachusetts (192))

DD/EAT propIIetAXy Project (ETNAMABLE.

gAnpaste bas

recently pought to interview some of the project priael-

21 pla. (SEi) has apecial senaltluity becauso of its preati-

geous sud welloconnected prinelpale. It vas covertly

funded through the Colt (A1), Magowen (108), Bannen 29,21, 27,21,21

(135), l. Alton Jones (09), Dearbora (48)

and R1dger 29

f1eld Foundations! Its own 1988 990-A w111 show grants

01(51,245,000 ta Dearborn (49), Jones (99), Magowan (105), 29,21,24,2

Sunner (135),

and Ridgefield Foundationa. 29

SENSITIVE

Hered

J1/ER

---

## Page 23

14-00000

TIVE

SECRET

- 9-

29

[people-to-people Health Foundation} Inc. (ppay) -

Washlagton, D.C. (124), 08

21

Also known publicly as Project (HOPE, this organization

la relatod to the former FI/OPS Project SePANFISH, UI 2t

was nentloned during WHDONELin the context of a legiti- 0i

nate grant by the exposed Hobby Foundation (71) PPHE va82.1,21

covertly funded by the exposed Dearborn (49) and/Marshall 29

It also received legitimate grants from the

(Catherwood Foundation (36) and McGregor Fund (109).

29

29

D.

Three Organizations with which There Have Been Some

HIttIng Contacte

29

29.

American Universities Fleld Staff, Inc. (AUFS) - Man-

hattan, New York (25) 08

Kermit Roosevelt] had contact In 1950 with[AUPS Execu-

tive Director, Philip Talbot (T), on posalble cover use

2901 AUPSI

In 1950, 0O/Contaots reported & continuing re-

lationship with [AUFS) for exchange of Information. There

apparentLy Was BONe COvert explOItatIOn UntIl BoOk DIa

2 patch No. 5167 al 4 October 1965 prohibited further use.

do,

Henry M.

Wriston (T), President of AURS and of Brown

Iniversity, was contacted in 1952 on use of a separate

Brows Unfveralty lacility for agent cover.

30.

Internationnl Rescue Committee, InC. (IRC) - Manhattas,

Hey York (93)

Under Project QKGAUNT, 82, 500 was furnished IRC 11

1950 - 1951 to obtain biographic data on defectors.

December 1962, INC Chalrman Leo Cherne offered cover and

i use of tic to tamons brows, volca. c/us declined

the offer, Inalcating there already mere usaful contacta.

IRC received loritimate grants from J. Frederick Brown

Foundation (34) and J. M. Kaplan Fund (101).

31. [ran Foundation] (IF) - Manhattan, New York (98)] 08

Under NS Project BBERLED, three officers of the Pounda-

tion were cleared and apparently contacted by staff agent

SE RET

25/BR

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SHESITIVE

SECRET

•10

06,09

Donald Wilbur In 1954) - 1856 for planned cover use of

OF 1n placing a physician 1n (Iran under nedical| cover. 08

The proposal aborted when the agent prospect resigned

in 1986.

Eleven Unvitting Organtzations Which were funded by

or Collaboratod with Project Organizationg

29

AmerIcan. Student Ald Fund, Inc. - Manhattan, New

YOr& (&08

29

Rocolved a cover grant Iron Farfield Foundation (56)

(l (Project @KOPERA) 1n 1988.

33. [ocean, for 105859 (1900 Dol pant) CALD) -

May have received funde from TYSA (SGGUESSER),.

Thomas

P. Melady, VIce Chalrman of Afitcan Seivico Institutely

YQZEUS) was on AID board.

30. To Port % geration) Dorolopa) - Manhattan,

(1 (SeGUEST 15%1 "1d and controlled through PYSA

35.

Experiment 15 Intorational larine, Ino. - Patres,

Vermont (55)

brochure.

QRBEND) Unt11 1965

orned by FIC (TPTONIC) and operated by IDF (88) 2

SENSITIVE

2RE NES 1230

9651 32

26/BR

---

## Page 25

14-00000

-11-

08.

29

37, (International Peasant Unlon] - Washington, D.C. (92))

29.01

supported by [BBC (Project TPTONIC) s0r 111teen years.

38.

Kossuth

Foundation, Inc. - Manhattas, New York (102)) 08

(ARBEND) for many years.

29

American Council for Emigres

In the Professions, Inc. -

Manhattan, New York (9)) 08

provided useful employment leads to FEC (TPTONIC) an

(TONIC)) and

aay have received FEC)funds la early 1950'g.

29

Overseas Education Fund of

Machington, D.C. (120)) of the League of Wonen Votera) -

06,06

Cooperated with the interchange Foundation) /leaded by

Anna Lord Strauss and Mrg. Harvey Picker of CC (44)

(Project JEFERVENT) din what proved an abortive effort

under a joint CA-Si project to sponsor the U.S. visit of

Interchange Founda-J 08,29

(75) for 1t8 share. The funds were redirected to &

seanlbility survey on establishing an international 08

women's organization.

41.

American Friends of Viet Nam, Inc. (AFVN) - Manhattan,

New York (15) 06

01

21

Under Project (TUSPUN a ($5, 000) grant vas made to

AFVN 1n 1958 by the Pathan exponed Mlchigan Fundl to 2)

defray the coate of a trip to V1et lane by Lt. GeR. JObail, 06

#. O'Dantol (Rettred), President of AFVI!

selther Gen. O'Dantel|nor (AFVN)was aware of CIA sponsOi

shtp.

29

13. (United States - Bouth Africa Lendorshlp Exchange Pro-.

sram, InC. (US - SALEP) - Philadelphia, Pennaylvanta

(139)]

Before December 1960,

US - SALEP)operated as a program

0f AAI (1) (TOFLUENT).

29,01

36/BR

---

## Page 26

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed

of naned organizations in Annexes A through i are the

Item numbers of organisations included in the s apxil

1968 Ramparts 11at (Annex F) .

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

ANNEX C

FORTY-FIVI TERMINATED COVERT FUNDING CONDUITS AND PROJECT

ORGANIZATIONS ON 5 April 1968 RAMPARTS LIST THAT WERE

NAMED IN PRESE DURING CHDOWELLO

A.

Eighteen CCS Multipurpose Funding Conduits

(Legttimate and Proprlotary)

29,01,10

~ 1. Anderson Foundation,

M.D. - Houston, Texas (LPCORSET/11)

(26))

2. Benton Foundation,

Willian - Manbattan, New York

(LPCORSET/ 18) (30) 01

29,10,01

[Broad-High Foundation = Columbus, Ohio (LPSIPHON/10,

cos proprietary) (33) 08

vit.

Brown Foundation,

(LICORSST/30) (34))

Frederick - Boston, Massachusetts 29,10,01.

29,10

vs.

Catherwood Foundatlon - Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (CCS

(FIle NO. C8-1820) (36) 08

1111no1s (КВОТТОЙ,) ССв

2910

17. Dode UndeRS261(6050

York (LPCORSET/26)

Cleveland Il. - Manhattan, New)

8. Florence Foundation - Dallas, 76210 (LPCORS5T/87 638)

vo. [Granary Fund - Boston, Madad udetta (IPSIPHON/, CCS

proprietary) 69) 08

29,10,01

110. Blobby Foundation - Houston, Texas (LPCORSET/51)] (71)

SEAS.

SECHET

1716R

---

## Page 28

14-00000

straito

-20

29,10,01

V11. [Hoblitzelle Foundation - Dallas, Texad (LPCORSET/3) (72)]

[Independence Foundation

Boston, Massachusetta (UPFUNNEL/?,

ccs proprietary) (75)|05

Ine., ". Alton - hanhattan, New York

2910,01

v14.

v15.

[Lou Foundat/90, (20 ) Duelua N.) - Manhattan, Hew

- 28. lodragor Fuad - Detrot, WIchigan (42800791/91) (200)

VIT.

Rabb Charitable Foundation, sidney and Esther - Bostor,

Massachusetta (LPCOR85T/58) (136)| 24,10,01

~18.

Rosenthal Foundation,

(LPCORSET/22) (130))

Benjamin J. - Chicago, 1111n019.2", 10, 01

24

B.

TwO CA/B]] Project Organizations

29

V19.

Committee

¡en Tork (43)°11-Determination, !

Inc. ~ Manhattan

intrblished under Project IPTONIC and taken over by

InTernatIOnaL LeVeLOpHeDt HOUndREIOn (8S) (LU) IO

FY. 1064 - 1965. Phased out before

WH took over III (88) under Project VOALIBI, 29,01

V. 20. (Paderewakt Foundation, Ignaey Jan - Manhattan, New York

(181)] 08

24

Sloven CA/B3] ProJect OrganIzations

SES

SITIVE

SECRET

Z21BR

---

## Page 29

14-00000

SENSITIVE

12730

SLAG

-3-

29

21. American Committee for Cultural Freedom - Manhattan,

New York (8) 08

22.

10

[American Fund for Free Juristal, Inc. - Wilminston, Dela-

vare (17)]

sion of Jurists under Project QKFEARFUL.

Proprietary funding condult for international commis-

123.

(American Society of Miricaa Culture}- Manhattan, New

York (824) 08

Action organization under Project (PFOUART),

V 24.

Coat (91 Correppondence, Inc. (OC)) - Manhattan, New

Action organization for International women's actlvi-

tles under Project JBFERVENT

~ 25.

(ParTield Foundation, Inc? - Manhattan, Ner York (56))

Prose ost, for (Cl and other aotsviten under

Whitney Trust for Charttable

Purposes, donn Hay,

dated 29 December 1959 - Manhattan, New York (141) U

Jundiag condult inder Project OXOPINI

(LPCORSET/ 68))

Funding condult under Project [KOPBRA (IPCORSET/68)] 01

28. [Pund 1o5 Internation] Cooperative Development - Chicaso,

I111201s (64)]

79,01

Funding condult for Cooperative Longue of the U.S.A.

(CLUSA)

under Project

WSFLUFFER.

29

Vi29. (Institute of International Labor ReseaTCh, InC. (ILLR) -

Manhattan, New York (83) 0

MOTIVE

29/8R

---

## Page 30

14-00000

3. 220 206 2

-4-

8001 action organization under project (OTRACCOON.

\ 30. (Kaplan Fund, Inc., The J. M.J - Manhattan, New York (101)

RApe condult uned foxlirtal (83) under project DE

Its exposure by (Congressman Patnan in AugustU

1964 Implicated eight [CCS notional and proprietary fund- 29,24,01

ing conduita and facilitated many MHDOWEL, exposures!.

29

V31.

National Education Association of the United States -

Fashiagton, D.C. (113) 0°

U.S. a1f1l1ate of World Confederation of Organizations

of the Teaching Profension (COTP) under Project (DILAM- Ul

PREY.

08 Student Organizations

J32. Independent Research Servied - Hanhattan, New York (76)

Roof organization under Project (HBEPITONE/TPPAPHRAT] fOr

combatting World Youth Festivala. Of

33.

Morld Valvereity Service) - Manhattan, New Jork (143) 08

M1t71ng recipient of FTSA funds under Project iBIPITOd./

EBINHAUST!

34. (110 Cronaroads Africal, Tac. - Manhattan, Hom York

Unwitting rag-piert oi cover grants, loss - 1000, dy

FTSA (Projeet HBIPITONE/SCGUESSIR). Ul It may have been

27 supported by AMBAC (24) (Project (TPFOUMART) U|It FA

colved legitimato granta fron J. Proderick Brown Founda-

t1On (34) (LPCORSET/20)}

29,01

24

B.

Two CA 84 project Organizationg

Ritata

24/BR

---

## Page 31

14-00000

•

N'35.

Fund for International Social and Economic Education

(FISES) - Pittsburst, Pennylvania (65) 29,10

Funding condult for international (Labor operatione

under Project [RSENSE/KMOCHROID], O

Ramparts April 1968 11ating Incorrectly states (PISEB]29

was formerly Center for Rural Development (CRD) - phila- 21.10

delphia, Pennsylvania. (CRDJactually replaced FISES) 21

36. Peace with Freedon, Inc, - Manhattan, New York (133) U8

Action organization under Project[QRBIBB.' Related to

Projegts lECHAIDEN, ARSHEER,

VPLANSEL, ORPLUTO and cox 01,01,0', 01

Oltaln Buropean soclalist activities.

those are knowi

to be of current interent to Rampaste.

F.

Eight Area Diviaion Profect Organizations

08

V 37. [Airican-American Inatitute] - Hashlagton, D.C. (2))

Project/QRFLUENT] and terminated shortly thereafter.

38.

Triond os India Comalttro) - Washington, D.C. [83)] U8

Organiention under Al) Project (PAPANTARS),

30. [sold or right 9 che, Nor For 299) area Ouraldo

An orennisation aubaldized under (1l) project (ASSILVER

40. (Internationnl Darelopment Foundation, IRo. - Manhattan,

New Tork (882708

rodront or a part do not me is pa thea

transferred to l as Project JOALIBI. U1

11. Pan American Foundation) - Mashlagton, D.C. (122)] 08

Wil funding nechantam under Project (JNPOPLAR/10)

SaG A

34/BR

---

## Page 32

14-00000

-ACTETE

2042

W!!'

29

42. Oparations

and Policy Research, Inc. - FaBhingtos, D.C.

08

Recrutted by CCS 1n 1960 a8 (LPCORSST/75] for mult1-

purpoue subaldy funding and ageat

Project IUEXTEND as a research action organization.

43.

(institute of Publid Adminiotration - Manhattan, New York

((84) 08

Recrulted by CCS in 1955 and excluslvely uned for agent

cover and support (not for organizational subaldies)

abroad. Used operationallylunt1l 1967.

provided cover

i3 10r ÑeBley V. BAKTH (P)] 1n (Paktatan) (Rogex G. ORAPELLO (P)| U3

0$!'C

1n the Phlllppines, ULyBaea P. SHOULB P) in Ngeria, 03,i1

85P 1 PROE C

Geoffrey D. WUNLAB (P) Ia Lebanon, and Anthony d. Par.

RACKA (P) IR ALIICA.

05,10

44.

Tolatoy Foundition, Iney - Hanhattan, New Tork (238)) 08

Recrulted by CCS for agent cover in 1952. Provided

cover id'(Jermany] for SB ataff agent lIrederick G. PER- OS

SHAN (P), 1982 - 1958, under Project ASDRAG. i Used by

DCS for leads and anglatance In handding defectora.

G.

Unwitting Reciptent of Cover Grants

29

4s. (Institute for International Eaucation, Inc. - Manhattau,

Hew York| (82) 08

IIs UnmIttIng LegIIInaLe orEhnsaLIon receIved auaLi

cOVOr SrAALA

propIIotaTy, Project/QROPERA), and the Anla Foundation

(Project OrPILLAr).

29

It alao receiyed Legitiuate granta Irom s1x founda.

tonsluned as cooperating covert funding nechanisns

(lcGregor Fund (109), John Hay Whitney Charltable Trust

(141 - 142) Aaron Norman Fund, Cleveland Dodge Founda-

tion (50), Willlan Benton Founcatlon (30), and Brown

rouncation (Houston) •

24,29,29,29,29,29,29

EETINE

Boi:ca

10257.29

52/BR

---

## Page 33

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parenthones following listed

of naned organIzations In Annexes A through l are the

Item numbers of organtzations Included 1n the

• 5 April

1968 Ramparts 118t (Annex F) .

---

## Page 34

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed

or named organizations in Annexes A through t are the

Item numbers of organizations included in the 5 April

1968 Ramparts I1st (Annex F).

---

## Page 35

14-00000

ISABITIVE

SECRET

ANNEX D

FIFTY-FIVE ORGANIZATIONS HITE NO XHOWN CIA CONNECTIONS

A.

Elve Organizations Which Made Legitimate Grants to

CIA Profect Orgaalsations and Suspect Organt-

ZALLORE

08

1. Avalon Foundation - Manhattan, New York (29))

Made logitimate 1954 grant to TolatOy) Foundation (138)}

Church Foundation, Frederic C. - Boston, Massachusetts

(40) 08

but so do at atom to i.

Mr. Church was cleared

3. Haralschfeger foundation - Milwaukee, Wisconain (70)

Made legitimate granta to lamelt Heritage Foundation,

(18) committee for Tibetan kelugees (11), joreign polley

Association (58), Blsenhower. Exchange Fellowship (51).

4. Hochachild Fuad, IB6. - Manhattas, Hew York (73)] 08

B.

Eight Organizations Which Recelved Legitimate Grants

From Foundatioas

(LICORSETS]| Used by CIA

1 49%

& CRET

M/BR

---

## Page 36

14-00000

MINE

SECRET

-2-

29

6. [Anet Fork 199 Educat10nal Exchange, IDe) - Hanbattan,

Hay have recelved a legitinato graut fron d. irederic

Brown Foundation (34) -01

(os- Jod a lesituate grant from Ilttater Foundation

8. Contes (5) dermation on Amation] - Washinston, Connes-

Received &

legitimate grant fron Anertcan Herltage

Foundation (18) | 83

29

9. I Committee

of Seventy, Inal - Philadelphia, Pennaylvanta

(39) 0X

(389, 1yed a legitimate grant from Catherwood Foundatlon

10.

O Received legitimate grants from Catherwood Foundation

(36) and N. Alton Jones Foundation (99).

11.

[Poreiga Policy Association) - Manhattar, Her TOI& (58) 18

Recelved legitimate

exants fron Cathermood (86) and

Hobby PoundatIons ((T1)). UJAlRO IrOn HarnIschIeger FOUnda-

tron (70) which had no ClA ties.

12. (Freedon House, Ind. J- Manhattan, Hew York (83)) 08

08

Recelved legltimate grant Iron J. M. Iaplan Fund (101)}

18.

[Near Bast Foundation} - Manhattan, New York (115)) 08

Recolved legitinato grants Iron Cleveland Dodge Founda-

$100 (50)]

08

SECRET

25/BR

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SSTISDEIVE

Barcal t

-30

c.

Three Legitimate DonorE to Suspect OrganizatIons

14. [Bodaan Foundation) - Manhattan, New Tork (3)] 08

Gave legitimately to youth organizations.

08

15.

(Old Dominton

Foundat10n] - Manhattan, New York (118))

Gave logitimately to institute of International bauer.

tion((82)dSCentex for Cross Cultural Connunication (37), 08

and Tale-in-China Association (145). 0Y

[institute for Sochal Belence nesearchd inc. - lashine

tos, D.C. (81)) 08

legltimately sponsorod Georgetown Univeralty Center

for Strategie Studies.

D.

TwO OrgAnIzAZIOns which Received Legitimate Grante

from suspect Donors

29

17. American Energency Connittee for Tibetan Refugees -

Hanhattan, New York (11)] 08

Recalyed legitimate funds from Harnlachloger FOUndatiOn

{(70). 08

(e) god losstlate sunda iron Ola Dealnios Foundation.

B.

SIx OrganizatIONs WhORe O1fICers/DIreCtOra Mere Asto-

sinted with CIA Projects

SECRAC

15/BR

---

## Page 38

14-00000

TL2NG

222

29

19. [inglish Speaking Unlon - Manbattan, Hew York (52)

Arthur Houghton, Jr-] President of FYSA (BOGUSSSER)J O

was an ortacer.

(Bagl1sh Speaking Unjon] - San Francisco, Californla (53)

See above. There nay be a tle to (TAY (DIPILLAR) OffI-

32. (EngIiA SpORkSNE D200)- CARORSO, I2AR0IO TE

Se0 23078.

08

22. [Ínstitute for AmerIcAn Strategy] - Chlcago, Ill1DO1s (TT)

Adulnory conmittee Includes (Prederlck Balshooral (uned

1n Projeot (ABUILDFIRR), Evron Kirkpatriek of OPR (119) 01,002.

Tand APSA (23) and (Dr. Kurt London, former DDI atäf1 en- 0

ployes.

Becelved Tegitinate granto fron Carnegle Endow

ment ((35))- 08

29

3• | Lsagz

of Homen Voters Bducation Fund - Manhlagtos, D.C.

(204) 05

84.

(Roxco Foundatton - Boston, Massachusette (131)

no da a gua eane o da o (15) arom xouada-

F.

ThIsty-One OrgaDizatlons lith no Evidont Connectiona

To the Others, Excopt That Their Names May be

Suspect

10. AITIOaRABeFICan students foUuncation, Inc. - Hanasttan,

New Xork ((8)| 08

.-.mousehtêt le

SEPAET

25/BR

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET

-50

26.

American Academy of Political and Social Selence (10

address) (8)) 08

38.

American Founuation for Overseas Bllad - Manhattar, New

Tork (12) 08

28. Aberto 1R 70X (16) choslavak Rezugees, InC. - Manbat-

19. AMerICAN InStITUtE Of PACIfIC deLRtIOnS, InC. - Lanhat

¿aD, New York (19) 08

31. Ameriat 20, 7C10522) International Alaire, Inc. -

32. At2a0t|8 Cun011 208 the Valted Stater, Ino. - Washinston,

93.

Center for CrOss Cultural Conmunicatios - Mashington, D.C.

((37)] 08

4. center for the study of international development -

soston, Massachusetts (39) 0

Connunity Devalopment Foundatios, IDC. - Norwalk, CORneC-

+10ut (46)/ 08

87.

LaTera and HorLd alfalta, Ino. - PaLladelphIA, Pennay,

v8218((37) 08

38.

free China Fund for Hedleal and Besuges Ald - Manhattau,

New York (60) 08

39. Fund for the Rellet of Cuban Exilen, Inc. - Coral Gables,

FlOrIdas (58)) i8

Fund for the Rellef of Russian Scientiats and ariters

11 ExIlo, Inc. - Manhattan, New York ((67) 08

12. TagtlE (60) 6 Esopaganda doslya15, Jac-- Menhattar, Mer

422n26

16/BR

---

## Page 40

14-00000

^... '---

222

-в

08

42.

Institute of World Alfaire - Manhattan, New York (85)]

43. Inter-Anerican Press Association scholarship fund, Ine. -

Manhattan, New York (86) 6

44. International Development Services, Inc. - Manhattan,

New York (88) 08

08

15. International Legal Ald AssociatiOn - Dover, Delaware (90)]

InternationaL. "nas aducation lovenent, inc. - lanhattar,

New York (91) 08

¿. International service of Information Foundation

Baltimore, Maryland (96) 08

13. International soelal sexvice, anerican Branch, ine. -

ianbattan, New York (97) Uc

08

19. League for Industrial Democracy - Manhattan, New York (103)]

East College AssoeIntion, Inc. - Manhattan, New York

(114)] 08

51.

andolph saucational tuna, a. thilip • sanhattan, de

ork (120 0>

08

Stevenson, Adlal B., Memorial Fund - Chicago, Illinola (134)

53. Tall Timbers Research, Inc. - Tallahassee, Florida (137)] U8

54. Unite or gOolgies lor Dosuroos, Inc. - Manhattan,

New Tork (1401) 08

SASTET

14/BR

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SRUSITIVE

SECRET

ANNEX

E

THREE FORHER PROJECT ORGANIZATIONS NOT INCLUDED IN Apr11

1968 RAMpArtS LIST BUT VULNERABLE BECAUSE THEY WERE

FUNDED BY ORGANIZATIONS ON THE LIST THAT FUNDED

EXPOSED ORGANIZATIONS

schecter.

intercatal.

29

1. Medical Services International (MSI)

21 0 8 10 209 1 1800.

Covertly funded by

funded six other project organizations.

Littaler 2)

(106) also funded six others, lour of them also junded

29 by Gunnen (135).29/HSI| vas used In NE Project PASHELL, 24, 0)

walch Involved a (Sunnen (135) grant.

3. (Nusan Ecology Fund (MUT))

01.

2437

ISD Project MKCOTTON. Hef was covertly funded by 21

Sonnbend (1üs),

hittauer (106), and Baird Foundations.

Balid nas previously exposed.

The three foundations,

respectively, covertly funded four, sla, and three

other projecte..

29

3. World Yeterane Fund (HVT))

CAR ProJect IPCLARE (World V, rana Federation).

"(ive received subatantial covert grante the Spencer I-l

and Ann #. Ol1n Foundation (117) 1962 - 1966.

(117) covertly funded too other project organizations,

RYET (TPTONIC)) and IDF (88) (ARBEND/VOALIBI))

29,01

29,01

SENORTIVE

SSO ETIVE

UBORET

ZI/BR

---

## Page 42

14-00000

Ramparts

203 1 1076r Surent, Anu. 40

dew tock clur,

se!! Tor'

10025

A0r11 5, 1958

•einiramatior Division

indirail Sevenue Service

11ii Crastlention Âve., Moi.

castin-son, D.C. 20224

Dear tr. FosaleDe:

Ramoarts "arazine 1s under contract to icaraw-Hill

ruti sa'he comany to produce a book dealing with orgarizations

"re funded by or cooper-ted with the Central Irtelligence

Information on these organizations from the following sources:

ine comation on th

1)

no the onent e8 one resure and intervenes

with their staff members;

2)

Insection of recorás octained from the Choritzole

organizations Division of the Attorney General's office in

tac states of Illirols, rassachusetts and New ori;

3)

The National Information Bureau in ew York;

4)

The foundation Library in new York and iashinaton, D.C.; ana

5)

Groun Research, Inc. in iashington, D.C.

In order to comolete the research, it 1s very Important for

us is insnect the 990-1 tax forms of organizations which, for

various reasons, we have been unable to inspect at the district

Oric :3

0f the Internal Revenue Service.

Following your

surrestion during

our tclephone conversatior,

submitting an alphabetical list which includes the location

o? thr ormantration and the years of the 890-a forms tirt we stlli

ni ü0 inspect. All of the orcanizations listed appears in

Cumulative List- Graanir tions Described 1n Section 170 (c) of the

1967-5•

78 (Revised to

Althouch this is a sizcable list,

we have narrowed it to

the mosu essential erranizations currently under investimation.

de will call next week to clarify any cuestions you may

have and to make an appointment for the inspection. If 1t 1s

arrerable wits you, several of our reseerchers will come to your

Was: inmoon office when the flles are ready, so that we may complete

the wor: as cuichl" as possinle.

teler one numter 18 (aia) 222-11%6." an Immediate nature, my

If there are any

Respectiully yours,

in Trappier

Jon Frapnie

---

## Page 43

14-00000

Ramparts o

ilot of oronizatious for wich 990-a tax forms are requested

Venes requested: 1903, 64, 65, 66- unless

otherwise indicated

* 1023 inx forms also regurateà

sifrican-american Institute, Thet

wash, D.C.

sifricin-inericin Labor Center, Inc.* NY, #Y(Van)

¡rican-auerican Students Foundation, Inc.* Hannattan, wY

4

;rican student 11d Fund, Inc. i

san., iY

Elà Refunee Chinese Intellectuals, Inc."

dan., "y

Anerican Acadeny of Political ana Social Science

perican-Asian

caucational exchante, Inc."

kar., Ny

(refore 1966: Amer can jirc-Asian Educational Exchange, Inc.

¿imerican Committee for Cultural Freedomi

kan., MY

imericar council for Enlares in the Professions, Inc." inn., i

Imerion" Council ior Nationalities Services

Man.. Ny

anion

I-ency Committee for Fibetan refurees, Inc."

Yan., 27 -

12

Atta 3.

comiction for Oversens Elind"

Man., dy

ammon runds of defugees, Ilc.*

Man., Nyl

14

mazerion riends of fussin Freeir N var., My

Kincrican Frients of Viet Nan, Inc."

zan., NY

terican Fund for Czechoslovak Refugees, Inc.

Fan., Ny :

X'Imerican Fund for Free Jurists, inc."

"ilminaton, Del.

dimerican Heritare Foundstion, The

Nan., NY

"American Institute ci Pacific Pelations, Inc."

Van., ivy

imerican Institute for Research In the Behavioral Sciences

Pittsturgh

Jamerican

"orean fcuncation, Inc., Thes

Man., NY

mericon innor conference on International iffalrs, Inc.*

Man.,

American colitical Science Assocition, The

rash., I.C.

ilmaricar society of african Cultures:

Man., NY

Ämerican Universities Fleld Staff, Inca

Yon., Ny

---

## Page 44

14-00000

Ramparts

¿nacroo. Inunention, Hi.D."

Fouston, Texas

asscciatio: for International development"

Eitlantic Councli for the Unites States, Inc.*

1965,66

Paterson, 1.J.

wash., D.C.

"inion Foundation

ranh., NY

Xcrion Foundation, illlant ran., iy

1966

3'

oamin Foundation, The

Nan., NY

XEranta Foundation" N inite Plains, NY

1966,

Krond-Hich Foundation*

Columbus, Chio

x-row Foundation, The J. Frederick"

Boston, Mass.

1956

35

Carnegle indorment for International Peace

ran., NY

< Catherwooa Folnaation, Thei

Philadelphia, PA.

¿center for Cross Cultural Communication

38

wash., П.С. 1964,65,66 =

Center :o Information on America, Ther

Washington, Conn.

Center for the Study of International Development* BostonMass1965

"Enuren Foundation, Frederic C.*

Foston, vass.

1965,65

¿Colt Foundation, Inc.* N

car., NY

1965,66

"Somnission for International Development»

Man., NY

Somnittee for Self Determination, Inc.*

van., NY

"Committee of correspondence, Inc."

Man., NY

"Sommittee of Seventy, Inc.*

Ph1la., Fa.

Community Development Foundation, Inc.*

*ouncil of International Prommens for Youth

Norwalk, Conn.

Cleveland, Ch10

Leaders and Social Workers, Inc., Ther

Xounet: on face and Caste in "orld Affairs, inc."

Yan., M

(redictillbity terminated as ci Dec. 31, 1966)

49

dienrborn Founrationi

Chicago, Ill.

Apodre Foundation, Inc. clevelana Fi.

Man., NY

1956

Elsenho"er Exchanue Feddoship, Inc.* Phila.,

Pa.

52

Entline Soeakine Unions:

Man., vy

---

## Page 45

14-00000

-

Ramparts

Enlis nan in Union*

San Francisco, Cal.

Inalysta spenking Union, Chicaro Branch

Chicaro, Ill.

berte no in Irtornational Liviar, Inc., rhe*

Putney, Vi.

Parceli Foundation, Inc."

Men., ivy

1966

anars and sorld iffalrs, Inc.*

Phila., Pa.

Milerance Foundntigh, Thes

Dallas, Pexas

1965,66

Forcin Policy Assodation

Nan., MY

Frer China Fund for Medical And Refugee A1d, Ines

Var., NY

" i

X:reedom Fund, Inc. "

ran., NY

ircedom House, Inc."

tan. My

Kiriends of Indin committee*

wash., D.C.

rudd for International Cooperative Developments

Chicago, Il1.

¿ Fund for In ernational sochal and Econonic advention"

Pitüsburgh, 22.

(formerly: Center ior Rural Develooment- Phila., Pa. )

Fund for the Relies of Cuban Exiles, Inc.* Coral Gables, Fla.

sund

for the relief of Russian Scientists and Writers

Man., Nu

In äxile, Inc."s

Xcovernmental iffairs Institute*

Wash., D.C.

'ranary Fund, thes

Boston, lass.

1965

Tarnischierer Founnations

Kilwaukee, Wis.

XHobby Toncations

Houston, Texas

Xäobiltzelle Foundation*

Dallos, Texas

Hochschild Funa, Inc.

Man., NY

1956

1955,65

1956

¡Homeland Founation, Inc." N lan., MY

715

XIndevendence Foundation, Thes

Soston, Mass.

1965

XInifendent Research Service

ran., NY

Institute for mcrican stratery" Chicago, Ill. Yar, arNo

(Insültute for International Order, Inc.*

Nan. NY

institute or International Yout Affairs"

rian., iy

-

---

## Page 46

14-00000

Ramparts

institu:a for Procaranda Analysis, Inc."

rian., dy

Indire : for Soclal icience Perciroh, 'The; Inc.*

wnsh., D.C.

Miculêu':: ci Iniernatirnal Faucation, Inc. Man., iy

Xinstitutcor International Labor research, Inc.

ran., "y

Lincülin Of Fuclle saministration Man., NY

Insültulr: of torid Affalrgi

Man., My and viarner, N.H.

In:er-americin iress Association Scholarshin Fund, Inc."

san., iy

Intrrnaiscnal Center for Social Hiesezrch, Inc.*

ran., My

MInte.ni.icrnl cevelopment Foundation, Inc. "

ran., #y

Interr-ticnnl development jervices,

Inc.*

dan., i

(Lecictibilit! terrinated as of

Dec. 31, 1959.

Inerraticnal Leral Ald Assocäation"

Dower, Del.

ntornational Vass Education Novement, Inc. **

Man., Ny un to 1964,

then wash., I.C.

Internacioral feasant Union* wash., D.C.

International Rescue committee, Inc. Man., Ny

AInternational Research Institute, Inc."

Princeton, N.J.

International Research on Communist Iechniques" Man., NY

International service of Information Foundation" Baltinore, Fid.

to 1963, €

97

Internitional Social Service-American Branch, Inc.* Nan., iy

Liran Foundation, Thet an., Y

ilaones Foundation, Inc., i. Alton

Nan., NY

'QJones-C'Dennell Foundation

Dallas, Iexas

Ixaplon Fund, Inc., Ihe Joll# Man., NY

19:5

1965,66

1965,66

&foasutn Founcation, Inc., The*

Har., NY

10iearue Tor Induntrial Lemocracy

tan., vy

Mlerrue ne iomen vaters iducition Fund

iash., D.C. =

?

105

lindslsy fura, John"

ian., ay

Mutiauer Foundation, InC.,. Me luius dos

ran., NY

1965,66

1966

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Ramparts

Klatie Foonintion, W1l0ughhysi

Providence, F.I.

X. Owar Family Foundasion, Inc., TheiN

van., Xy

Weareror Finds Detroit, Mich.

Heck Foundatior" Greerwich, con:.

N

1065,60

1955,66

1966

1'1;

sadie last Institute, Thes

ilash., D.J.

unson foundation lan., NY N

Xiational Education Assoclation of the t.S., The

1956

dash., D.C.

tear East Collere Association, Inc."

Man., MY

TErr Sait Pouncation

wan., NY

tad Dominion Foundation, The

"an., Ny

1965,66

1965,66

Kchin Foundation, spencer I., Ann il."N Alton, I11.

Opernüion Crossroads Africa. Inc.*

. Man., My

iCoentions and Folicy Reseeron, Inc*

wash., D.C.

¿versens baucation Fund of the Inacue of Women Voters# (insh, D.0-÷0

1964)

¡Faderewski Foundationt (Ianncy Jan).

van., MY

1965,60

¿'an mcrican Foundation Masko, D.C.

1966

Hence with Freedom, Inc." tar., it

1964,55,56

X-conle-t0-People Henlth Found-tion, Inc., Ihes:

Hash, D.I. -

a neios-Stokes Fund, The Frustees of tre N Man., MY

MEnco Charitarle Fourdation, the Slaney and Esther

Bogton

1965,56

Franton caucational Fund, 1. 3111p*

Minn., iy

Kao ison Foundation, jaices E. Nario, it

(Fonine: "m Charitable Irüsts Nioston, Mass

it

rosent1 truncation, Fentamin j.

Chicaro, Ill.

1965,66

1965,65

1950

131

Forco foundatiin"

Boston, riass

Asatintire neincerine Instituse, Irc.in

cambriare, "ass

*Sonnabena Foundation, Ihes N Boston, inss.

1955,00

134

Stever...ong

idlal E., Merorial Funds

Chicago, Ill.

(ar"es 196l name is itevenson Institute of International Affairs, Chica:

---

## Page 48

14-00000.

Ramparts

-=..

dinner Foundation"

sarlerood, to.

Xinà di sistopa of the fussiar orthodox church

cutside of dussia*

Inll Tampers Hoseirch, Inc.+

Tallahassee, Fla.

folstoy Foundätion, Inc,

Yan., it

United stater south Africa Leadershin ischange

Inc. "

170

United states Committee for refurees, Inc.*

¿inner Trust u/a Gated Dec. 29, 1959 for

or table Purnoses, John Hayi

Mind they

Pawat. ula dated

Dec. 29,1958 for

Charitable Purposes, John Hay"

moria Chiversity Service

Man., NY

orld ilde Broadcastinr. Foundation, Inc."

ran., iY

Vale-Ir-Ohina Association, Inc."

New Haven, conn,

1950-

ran., MY

Phila., Fa.

van., Ny

Man., iX

van.,

NY

1963,65,66

144

---

