# 104-10406-10136

## Page 1

1104-10406-10136

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

3. DEFINITIONS

Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply

Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term "operational use"

employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct

manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible; however, to cover in

a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances

which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of "operational

use" is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be

employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-

mination of "operational use" which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-

surance by the responsible operating components will be referred to the

Deputy Director for Operations for decision.

a. Operational Use"

Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-

ing of any individual or group for DDO purposes on either a witting or

unwitting basis by or on the behalf of an element of the Operations Direc-

torate. Utilization is made of an individual or group whenever that in-

dividual or group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO

element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies

financial, material, or other support necessary for the accomplishment of

DDO operational objectives either directly or indirectly, to or for an ele-

ment of the Operations Directorate.

b. DDO Element

Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled

either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under

this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-

anistas.

c. Operational Contact

Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO

operations.

4. RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

a. Restrictions on the operational :se of individuals or groups are of four types

and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described

in greäter detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this instruction:

(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph 5):

(a) Members and trainees of ACTION;

(b) Fulbright graatees;

D

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

(c) Officials or employees of the International Association for Cultural /

(Freedom;)

(d) Officials,

employees, or giantees of the Ford, Rockefeller and!

(Carnegie Foundations;)

(e) Employees of US private detective, investigativeragencies.

(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see

paragraph 6):

AND APPROVAL OF - SA/ADDO,

(a) Employees of other U.S. Government agencies; 1

(b): DDO agents or assets in the United States; f*

(c), Agents and human sources of foreign intelligence registered byi -

other U.S. agencies;

(d): Citizens (or persons documented as citizens) of Australia, Canada,

¡ the United Kingdom (including its overseas dependent territories)!

i and New Zealand; 1.

(e) i Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands;!

(f) Merchant seamen on ships of certain countries.!

(3) Operationál Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see para-

grapb 171).s

(a) Publishers, producers, journalists or employees of public infor;

/ mation media;

(b)ICARE employees;

(ci) Individuals engaged in public relations activities;

(di), Officials, representatives, or employees of Communist countries!

in the United States;

(ei) Foreign delegates or employees of the United Nations assigned i

| in the U.S. and U.S. citizen delegates or employees wherever!

assigned;

(f) "Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies; '

(g) [Officials of the Vatican State;

(b) ; U.S. Government-funded professors, lecturers, students or grantees; "

(i) Members of educational or private voluntary organizations; i

(ji)". Officials or employees of the African-American Institute; i

(k) | Volunteers to America l

(4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (see

paragraph 8):

a) [Citizens or alien residents of the. U.S. in denied areas

b) Non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees of Ur

ited Nations or

@ganizations not assigned in the. U.S.;!

(c) Members of the academic community.

b. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of

restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable

in his particular case.

3

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

5. OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED

a. Members and Trainees of ACTION

(1) It is Agency policy that members and trainees of ACTION) will not be

used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency

or by organizations under its jurisdiction. (The tenut "members of AG.

TION will be understood to mean aayone employed by or associated

with ACTION except trainees.)

(2) It is Agency policy that former members of ACTION)may be em-

ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction

only in accordance with the following:

(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former member of ACTION)

may be employed or used operationally by any element of the

Agency only if a period of five full years has elapsed since his

separation from ACTiON.)

(b) An Agency-controlled organization may hire a forizer member of

(ACTION) but only for duties related to the overt purposes of such

organization, if a period of at least twenty-four months has elapsed :

since his separation from ACTION.

(c) The employment or use of a former member of ACTION under

the provisions of subparagraph (a) or (b) above must have the

specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

(3) Former trainees whose ACTION service included duty or training/over-

seas are subject to the rules governing employment or use of former

members of ACTION (subparagraph (2) above). Former trainees who

did not serve at any time as members of ACTION and whose (ACTION)

service did not include duty or training overseas may be employed or

used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap-

proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.

den operated ma peo

(4) A former (member or trainee of ACTION) whose employment or use

is permitted by subparagraph (2) or (3) above may not be assigned

to or used in a country for which he had been trained or to which

he had been assigned while with ACTION

(5) Information may be received by the Domestic Collection Division

from private corporations and other organizations employing former

ACTION personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may

originate with former ACTION personnel. However, any direct brief-

ing or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of

ACTION is subject to the following:

(a) The specific prior approval of the Depuiy Director for Operations

must be obtained.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

C

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

(b) If the individual is a former member of ACTION, or a former

(trainee whose ACTION service included duty or training over-

Secto years must have elapsed since ais separation from

• If contact with a former, ACMON member) or a former trainee whose

(ACTION) service included duty or trainigg overseas should be un-

avoidable during the required five year. waiting period, the Deputy

Director for Operations may request an exception from the Director

of Central Intelligence. Among the possible reasons for such unavoid.

able contact would be the designation of a former member or trainee

as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division.

b. Fulbright Grantees

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of individuals who are receiving

(U.S. Govérnment support) under certain provisions (see below) of the

• (Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended,

commonly known as the Fulbright-Hays Act Falling under this prohibi-

tion are (teachers, reseane scholars lecturers and students; (including stu-

•(dent artists and student musicians) who have been selected to receive

{scholarshipstor-grants. byxthe Board of Foreign-Scholarships appointed

by the President of the United States. Operational use of such individuals

is prohibited only during the period when they are participating in the

educational and cultural exchange program. This prohibition specifically

does not apply to the several other categories of 'grantees/supported by

other provisions of the Fulbright-Hays Act such as artists, athletes, leaders,

specialists-or-participants-atsinternational. tradekfairs. for

ositions who

do not come under the aegis of the President's Boardsof

Scholar-

Ships) (see 1.j., below).

c. Officials or Employees of the international Assoctation forCultural Freedom

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of the officials or employees

of the International Association for "Cultural Freedom. Contacts with such

individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in their cover ca-

pacities must be limited to their cover assignments.

d. Officials, Employees, or Grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller indiCamegie

Foundations

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of grantees of the Ford Founda-

[tion, the Rockefeller Foundation or the Carnegie Foundation) or of other

persons actively participating in programs which are wholly

sponsored

and controlled by any

of these fotindations: Additionally, there will be

no operational use made of the officials or employees of these organiza-

tions. In general, however, there is no restriction on nonoperational con-

tacts or consultations with such individuals.

5

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

e. Employees of U.S. Private Detective Investigatice Agencies)

DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in the United States

or overseas of the employees of any U.S.-owned or -controlled private

detective investigative agency, This policy does not apply to operational

use of employees of organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial

or credit investigations.,

6. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED

a. Employees of Other U.S. Government Agencies)

Approval for the operational use of staff or contract (including foreign)

employees of other U.S. Government agencies will be granted only in

cases where the employee's parent agency in Washington has been notified

of and has approved of the intended operational use in accordance with

the provisions of DOI 10-5.

•b. DDO Agents or Assets in the United States

the operational activity of the Operations Directorate conducted in the

United States. Coordination with the FBI of appropriate information on

DDO operational activities in the United States is the responsibility of

the Chief, Liaison Group, Operations. Staff.

(1) All investigations by this Agency of foreign officials in the United;

States require the prior concurrence of the FBI. In this context, the

term "investigation" means systematic and direct inquiries or pro-

cedures (such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhood

inquiries) aimed at developing information concerning an individual's

activities or background; "investigation" does

ceptance or the development of information through social contacts

or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their

cover functions.

(2) Any approach in the United States by a DDO element for recruit-

ment of any foreign official or of any visitor from a Communist country

requires the prior concurrence of the FBI.

(3) Any planned meeting in the United States for assessment and social

development between a DDO element and a foreign official of known

or presumed interest to tle FBI or between a DDO element and an

official or visitor from a Communist country requires that prior poti-!

fication be provided to the FBI!

(4)

Whenever domestic DDO operations involve matters pertaining to

the national security of the United States, appropriate identification

of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be

6

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

provided to the FBI. In accordance with this policy, the following

categories of DDO assets will be identified (to the FBI: DDO per-)

sonnel, agents of the Operations Directorate who are either. U.S. ltizens)

or alien residents, and foreign agents of the Operations Directorate

recruited abroad) who come to the United States for operational

purposes.

a Agents and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence Registered by Other

U.S. Agencies)

The Interagency Source Register (ISR)) has been established at bead-

quarters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies

á centralized record of agents and human sources of foreign intelligence.

A principal purpose of the ISR is to register primacy of interest and)

prevent multiple recruitment.or unintentional duplicate operational use

of such agents and human sources.)It is USIB policy that no individual

(registered in the ISR by one USIB agency will be used for operational pur.

poses by any other USIB agency without the specific prior approval of the

agency having primacy of interest. If a DDO element desires to arrange the

transfer or joint operational use of a registered individual, the ISR will con-

tact the agency having primacy of interest to determine whether there is a

willingness to discuss this matter.

d. Citizens

¿Persons Documented as Citizens) of Australia, Canada, the

United" Kingdom (including its Overseas Dependent Territories) and

New Zealand

(1) The operational use of (citizens)of the above-named countries (includ

ing the overseas dependencies of the United Kingdom)) is restricted

by agreements with the intelligence: or security authorties of such

countries, which require the prior approval of the appropriate liaison

authority. Such approval will be obtained at the earliest feasible stage

of development through the European Division (in the case of citizens?

of Canada or the United Kingdom), or through the East Asia Division

'(in the case of Australian or Neiv Zealand citizens).)

(2). The above restriction also governs the use of false documentation

representing DDO staff or agent personnel as citizens of the above-

named countries. Approval for the use_of such documentation will

be sought through the same channels as stated in subparagraph (1)

above.

(3) Authority to make operational use of the persons or documentation

described in the above subparagraphs without obtaining the prior

approval of the liaison authority concerned may be granted only

by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director.

7

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAI

4 September 1973

e. (Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands

The operational use Of any citizen of Norway, West Germany or The

Netherlands is, under certain conditions, contingent on prior approval

of the national intelligence service concerned These countries are par

ticularly sensitive in cases involving the operational use of their citizens

who are merchant seamen and who are (serving on ships carrying their

flags. Each case involving the proposed operational use of a citizen of

one of these countries will be reviewed by the Chief of the European

Division in the light of the agreements existing between this Agency and

the national intelligence service concerned. After weighing all of the

equities, the Chief of the European Division will decide whether approval

is required from the national intelligence service) concerned. When re-

quired, approvals for the operational use of such individuals will be

obtained from the appropriate national intelligence services by the Euro-

pean/ Division.

f. Merchant Seamen on Ships of Certain Countries)

The operational use of merchant seamen, regardless of theirs

enship;

who are serving on ships) carrying the (flags of Australia, Canada, the

United Kingdom (or its overseas dependencies), New Zealand, Norway,

West Cermany or The Netherlands is, under certain conditions, subjec

to provisions of the agreements existing between this Agency and the

(national intelligence service concerned. Each case involving the proposed

operational use of such a merchant seaman will be reviewed by the Chief

of the European Division or the Chief of the East Asia Division, as ap-

propriate, in the light of the (pertinent interservice agreements. After

weighing all of the equities, the Chief of the European Division or the

Chief of the East_ Asia Division will determine the course of action to

be taken with regard to the national intelligence service concerned.

7. APPROVAL BY THE DDO REQUIRED

Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use

of any individual who falls into one of the categories described in this para-

graph will be requested by mencrandum. The individual's covert approval

status will be described in the menorandum to the Deputy Director for

Operations, together with a concise explanation of the intender operational

use. (In connection with this paragraph, contacts by the Domestic Collection

Division with individuals ur firms do not require approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations provided they constitute merely briefing or de-

briefing for the purpose of ubtaining information acquired by an individual

or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activides. if, however

in any case the contact is on behalf of another element of the Operations

8

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

Directorate or another agency; or if an individual or firm will be requested

to perform an operational task or to deviate from his or its normal pattern

of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual's

or firm's normal pattern of activity, will take, place because requested

or

funded by the Domestic Collectión Division; that case will be subject to

the requirement for approval by the Deputy Director for Ogerations.)

a Publishers, Producers, Journalists, or Employees of 'Public Information:

Media (see DOI 240-6)

(1) Operational use of publishers or producers of public information media.

requires prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations whenever

there is danger that such activity might serve in any say (to influence)

U.S. public opinion. Such activities include but are not limited to the

publishing.of books, newspapers; or magazines, the making of films,

the production of TV or radio programs or the issuance in the United

States of any public opinion influencing information media. The op-

erational use abread of publishers or producers of public information.

media for non-U.S. audiences does not require approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations even though such activities may have some

unintended and unsolicited fallout in the United States.

(2) Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations is also required prior

to the operational use of journalists, newspaper, TV, radio, or news !

service correspondents or stringers,

and employees of news media

including TV and radio stations, whenever the individual is a U.S.

citizen or when the news medium involved is under U.S. ownership

or control.

b. CARE Employees

It is DDO policy to avoid operational use of employees of the CARE

organization including indigenous employees. Exceptional individual cases

involving priority operational objectives will be considered on their merits.

Prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations will be required

in all cases.

c. Individuals Engaged in Public Relations Activities (see DOI 50-18)

Individuals engaged in public relations activities which in any way have

or seek to have an influence on public opinions in the United States are

considered to be in a separate sensitive category. In view of the peculiar

aspects of public relations activity, including the special requirements of

the Föreign Agents Registration Act; approval by the Deputy Director

for Operations is required prior to the operational use in a public relations)

capacity of any individual who is engaged in public relations activities

and who is located in or operating into the United States.

9

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

d. Officials, Representatives, or Employees of Communist Countries in the !

United States (see DOI 60-11)

Prior approval of the Director or the Deputy Director for Operations is

required for operational contact in the United States with or operational

use of officials, representatives, or employees of the USSR, its satellite

countries, Communist China, or any other country under Communist

contre If, while in the United States, such individual is to be investigated,

approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational purposes, the prior:

concurrence of the FBI will also be required in accordance with para-

graph êb., above.

NATiONS

e. Delegates or Employees of the United States

It is DDO policy that the operational use of delegates or employees of

the United Nations, including those of its various main organs and of

its related intergovernmental agencies, is of such sensitivity as to require

special consideration by the Deputy Director for Operations. In especially

worthwhile cases wherein operational use of a particular (UN individúal

is deemed essential for the accomplishment of the DDO mission, approval

may be obtained. In each case involving a non-l.S. citizen assigned in

the U.S. or a U.S. citizen wherever assigned, the prior approval of the

Deputy Director for Operations will be required. (See paragraph 8.b.

regarding use of non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees not assigned

in the U.S.) If, while in the United States, the UN individual is to be

investigated, approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational pur-

poses, the prior concurrence of the FBI may also be required as outlined

in paragraph 6.b., above.

f. Staff Members or Officials of Red Cross Societies?

The operational use of staff members or officials of the International Red :

¡ Cross or its affiliated national Red Cross, Red Crescent, or other equivalent

societias requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations. DDO elements should make every effort to avoid

the operational use of staff members or officials of Red Cross societies. How-

ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative

agent assets are not available, approval for the use of such individuals may..

be graated by the Deputy Director for Operations.

g. Officials of the Vatican State

Operational contact with officials of the Vatican State will be made only

Director for Operations.

b. U.S. Government Funded Professors, Lecturers, Students or Grantees

U.S. or foreign protessors, lecturers or studeats and other persons partici-

pating in U.S. Government-sponsored academic, cultural, athletic or other;

10

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

exchange programs (except certain Fulbright grantees see paragraph 5.b.,

above) are considered to be in a separate sensitive category. Operational

use of such individuals while they are actively participating in an exchange

(program funded by the U.s. Government-requires special considesation

and approval by the Deputy Director for, Operations prior to such use. In

ertain especially worthwhile cases wherein the operational use of a par-.

icular U.S. Government supported exchangee) is considered essential t

the accomplishment of the DDO mission, the Deputy Director for Opera-

tions may grant approval. Memoranda requesting such approval will be

forwarded through the Chief, Foreign Resources Division. In such cases the

Deputy Director for Operations will determine whether or not to seek the

concurrence of the U.S. Goverament sponsor.

L Members of Educational or Private Voluntary Organizations

(1) It is U:S. Government policy that no federal agency shall provide any

covert financial assistance or support, direct or indirect, to any of the

(nation's educational or private voluntary organizations. This policy

applies to all foreign as well as domestic activities of such organiza?

(tions. In compliance with the above proscription, DDO policy requires

the most careful scrutiny of all cases involving operational contact with

U.S. educational or private voluntary organizations including trade and

professional organizations. The operational use of any employee, staff

member or official of such an organization requires prior approval by

the Deputy Director for Operations.

The Deputy Director for Opera-

tions will determine whether or not to seek extra-Agency approval for

the conduct of such operations.

(2) Operational use including covert funding abroad of foreign-based

(international voluntary organizations and the personnel thereof is per-

mitted even if the organization is also funded by U.S. private voluntary

(organizations.

j. Officials or Employees of the African-American Institute

Operational use of the officials or employees of the African-American/

Institute requires prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

Contacts with such individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in

their cover capacities will not involve operational matters until the approval

of the Deputy Director for Operations has been secured.

- k. Volunteers to America)

Operational use of or operational contact with members of Volunteers to

America while they are on assignment in the United States will not be

made without the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

(Volunteers to America) are participants in programs established by various

foreign countries in collaboration with the Department of State as

il

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-0,0000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

The name of the organization may vary by country.

8. OPERATIONAL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA

• DIVISION

Operational use of any individual in the categories listed in this paragraph

is considered of such sensitivity as to require special consideration and ap-

proval by the appropriate Area Division Chief. This authority may not be

delegated. The request for approval will be by memorandum in which the

individual's covert approval status will be described, together with a concise

explanation of the intended operational use.

a Citizens or Alien Residents of the U.S. Used in Denied. Areas: (see

The operational use in denied areas of U.S. citizens, or of aliens iho have

been admitted for permanebt residence or have resided for a prölonged

period in the U.S., requires the prior approval of the Chief of the Area

b. Non-U.S. Citizen Delegates or Employees of the United Nations not

signed in the U.S.

tended use is to take place.

c. Members of the Academic Community

(1) Within the context of this instruction a member of the academic com-i

munity is defined as: any student, faculty member, administrative

officer or staff official of a college, university or similar institution of

higher learning including their associated research centers. Persons

associated with institutions such as police or military training centers

(except the four college-level military service academies) or under-

going specialized technical training with business or commercial firms

are not considered to be members of the academic community

(2) Operational use of members of the academic community, especially

those cases wherein an individual is to be made witting of Agency

interest, will be on a highly selective basis. Each case will be examined

to ascertain its essentiality to the DDO mission in terms of the price

of possible disclosure, and to ensure that proper security procedures

can be observed. When it has been determined that the operational

use of a member of the academic community as defined above is

1?.

SECRET

D

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

DOI. 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL:

4 September 1973

operationally feasible and without suitable alternative, prior approval

in the following cases will be obtained as indicated below:

(a) Any U.S. citizen who is a member of the academic community.

and who is associated in any way with any U.S. or foreign college,

university or similar institution of higher learning;

(b) Any non-U.S. citizen who is a member of the academic community

and who is associated in any way with any U:S.-oyned or U.S.-

affiliated college, university or similar institution of higher learn DDO

ing which is located either in the United States or abroad

If the individual is located in the United States, approval will be re-Offend

quested by memorandum to the Chief, Foreign Resources Division.

The memorandum will include a statement that the individual is, or

is not, a DCD asset or contact, and in the event be is will include

the concurrence of the Chief, Domestic Collection Division. If the in:

dividual is loçated outside the United States; approval will be requested

by memorandum to the Chief of the Area Division who has jurisdiction

over the area concerned. Operational use of foreign members of the

academic community who are not associated in any way with U.S.-

owned or U.S.-affiliated institutions of higher learning is also con-

sidered sensitive.. The operational use of such individuals also requires

the approval of the Chief of the Area Division/In any. case involving

a well known person or having special security implications, the

Division Chief to whom the request is referred under the above pro-

visions will consult with the DDO and obtain the latter's approval.

(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) do not apply to Domestic Collection

Division contacts with members of the academic community, but such

contacts are subject to the following requirements:

(a) If a member of the academic community) would be asked to per-

form an operational task or to alter his normal pattern of activity

in order to serve Agency purposes, prior approval of the Chief,

Domestic Collection Division is required. Additionally, if such an

individual will be in a foreign area, the concurrence of the Chief

of the Area Division concerned will be obtained.

(b) Prior concurrence will be obtained from the appropriate Area

Division Chief if an individual is to be utilized in a politicaily

sensitive ares where his presence or activities could potentialiy

embarrass the interests of the U.S. Goverment.

(c) The requirements of paragraph S.a. apply if a citizen or alien

resident of the United States wouid be used in a deried area.

(4) At the end of each calendar year, Chiefs of Divisions will submit a

report to the Deputy Director for Operations (via Chief, Foreign

Resources Division) on the number of individuals recruited from the

13

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

academic community during that year. This audit will permit the DDO

to keep abreast of major quantitative changes in the number of po

tentially sensitive operational cases in each Division.

(5) It should be noted that the provisions of this paragraph do not apply

to DDO employees who wish to study orkeach privately: pproval for.

such activity will be obtained in accordance with the provisions of

• HR 10-7.

9. INDIVIDUAL CHANGES OF STATUS OR CATEGORY

When an individual undergoes a change of status which places him in one of

the restricted categories described above, or transfers him from one category

to another, his operational use or continued operational use is contingent upon

approval or reapproval as prescribed.for his new status.

10. INTERPRETATION OR MODIFICATION OF RESTRICTIONS

Certain of the policy restrictions described in this instruction are subject to

• interpretation, •extension or modification by the Deputy Director for Opera-

tions depending on the conditions and the atmosphere for DDO operations

at any particular time. Especially when dealing on the edges of policy rulings

and within the guidelines set forth herein, particular heed should be paid to

the price of disclosure, including careful consideration of the sensitivities of

the individuals involved. When there is any doubt concerning the application

of these restrictions, guidance should be obtained from the Deputy Director

for Operations.

William E. Nelson

Deputy Director for Operations

14

SECRET

---

