# 104-10066-10240

## Page 1

1104-10066-10240

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1091

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUC

ACTIONS IP/OPLO 1791) INFOELEILEDRE, UDODED, (11/W2

78 0705837

TOR: 161246Z MAY 78

BRUS 51113

SECRET 1612127 MAY 78 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CITE BRUSSELS 51113 (GOERLICH ACTING)

С. тО:

WASHINGTON.

CHRONO

FOR:

EURABNL

INFO EURIA, SA/DO/O, DO/EUR/NH.

SUB:

WNINTEL ADFLAIR NIGALE - FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS

C. REFS:

A

B

WASHINGTON

213077

BRUSSELS 51014 0661601

1 .

NITRUST HAS RESPONDED ORALLY TO OUR NOTE CONCERNING

PASSAGE

OF CAGALE INFORMATION ON THE VLAAMSE MILITANTENORDE

(VMO) TO THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS.

GIST OF HIS

COMMENT:

HE WILL NOT PASS US INFORMATION ON POSSIBLE VMO-

ANCIT CONTACIS,

BECAUSE THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT WILL

PLACE SUCH INFORMATION AT RISK; AND IN GENERAL HE WILL NOT

APPROVE PASSAGE OF CHIGALE INFURMATION ON THE UMO TO CONGRESS

BECAUSE HE HAS INSUFFICIENT ASSURANCE THAT THE MATERIAL WILL

NOT LEAK, DESPITE OUR

ASSURANCES THAT THE SUBJECT WOULD

BE

MANDLED AS CLASSIFIED AND SENSITIVE.

2.

WE ARE ANAITING WRITTEN REPLY TO LEARN WHETHER THERE

ANY GIVE IN TRUST ATTITUDE.

RE AMCIT ASPECT, WE SUSPECT

THERE IS MEASURE OF POSTURING ON CITRUST'S SIDE. IN REF B

ACOS/RIGALE -75 DISCUSSION, LATTER REMARKED THAT

TO BEST HIS

KNOWLEDGE THE ONLY KNOVN UNO CONNECTION WITH AMERICAN WAS

INCIDENT IN ABOUT EARLY 1977 WHEN ORGANIZATION MET BRIEFLY

WITH AIN AMERICAN NAZI PARTY MEMBER WHO HAD BEEN EXPELLED FROM

UK AND PASSED THROUGH BELGIUM.

HE DISCUSSED THE CASE WITH US

AT THE TIME (NAME OF TRAVELLEN NOT RECALLED BY ON-75)OR ACOS).

3.

MIND

THERE IS NO WAY HE CAN DISLODGE CITRUST'S OBVIOUS

SET OH THE CONGRESSIONAL SITUATION.

QUESTION OF CONGRESS

ASIDE, IF HEADQUARTERS CAN PROVIDE SPECIFICS ON FOIA MECHANICS

WHICH NE CAN USE TO COUNTER (NITRUST'S ASSERTION THAT RTACTION.

CANNOT PROTECT LIAISON SOURCES PROVIDING INFORMATION ON

AMERICANS, WE HOULD BE HAPPY TO MAKE SUCH POINTS WITH MITRUST.

-i-

SECRET

6872

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUC-

78 0705837

PAGE 002

TOR: 1612462 MAY 78

(BRUS) 51113

HE IS OF COURSE AWARE OF OUR "SOURCES AND METHODS" POSITION;

BUT IT'S CLEAR THAT HE'S NOT PERSUADED THAT WE ARE HOLDING THE

LINE.

4. FILE: (008-002-009130

EZ IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE•

SECRET

---

