# 104-10326-10054

## Page 1

1104-10326-10054)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHENO

96-3312306

=====

SENSIND

SECRET

SECRET

PAGE:

1

STAFF

ACTION: NR/PGO (522)

INFO: C/NR, C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/NR, CIC/OG, CIC/ PRC,

CP/NR, CTC/COPS, CTC/IFC, CTC/MSB,

CTC/00G, CTCARCHIVE, LIMITO, MDSX,

NR/ATA, NR/CEG,

NR/ECON, NR/EX, NR/EX/E, NR/EX/W, NR/KRG, NR/TCOM,

NRDORECORD, ODPD, FILE, C/CTC,

DC/CTC (3/W)

96 3312306

ASR

TOR:

PAGE 001

271506Z FEB 96

IN 3312306

MINN 19681

SECRET 271349Z FEB 96 STAFF

CITE MINNEAPOLIS 19681

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT NR/PGO INFO CHIEF/NR, NR/ES, NR/EX/W, NR/EX/E,

NR/ ECON, NR/TCOM, NR/KRG, CP/NR, NR/CEG, NR/ATA, CIC/NR

SLUGS: WNINTEL MXBLAZE

SUBJECT: NO CONTACT STATUS OF STATION CONTACTS AND ASSETS

REF:

A.

DIRECTOR 654551 96 3268629

B. DIRECTOR 742844

TEXT:

¿PER REF A REQUEST,

FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF STATIONI

CONTACIS AND ASSETS WHO ARE CURRENTLY IN NO-CONTACT, STATUS.

( (ANDREGG) ), MICHAEL

ST. PAUL, MIN.

IN 1992 PRODUCED AND BROADCAST ON LOCAL CABLE

ACCESS TV AN ENTI-NWBOLTON FILM LINKING INWEOLTOIS TO THE

* ASSASSINATION> OF <JFK, EMIR, ETC.

MOREOVER, HE IDENTIFIED THE

FEDERAD BUILDING AT PORT SELLING IMPLYING

IT WAS WHERE THE

STATION) WAS LOCATED:

((AWNI)) , WALID MOHAMMED

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, PHARMACEUTICALS

HENNEPIN COUNTY MEDICAL CENTER

MINNEAPOLIS, MN.

DPOB: 20 SEP 55, BAGHDAD, IRAQ

ACCORDING TO LOCAL FEE, IN MID/LATE d-980'S_SUBJ

WAS THE DISTRICT LEADER FOR AREA BATHISTS.

HE REPORTEDLY WAS

ACTIVE IN A NOW DEFUNCT UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA STUDENT GROUP,

THE GENERAL UNION OF PALESTINIAN STUDENTS,

AND CHAPTER PRESIDENT

OF THE ORGANIZATION OF ARAB STUDENTS.

THE FBI SAID AWANI

FUNNELED MONEY FROM BAGHDAD TO LOCAL UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.

HAD A GREEN CARD IN 1983 AND MAY NOW BE A U.S: CITIZEN.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

RMHTINO:

96-3312306

SENSIND

------------

I (BOSROCK) ) ,

RONALD M.

H. B. FULLER COMPANY

ST. PAUL, MN.

DPOB :

22 OCT 1938, BATTLE CREEK, MI.

21 JULY 89 SUBJECT

TOLD C/O THAT HE DID NOT WANT

TO BE A SOURCE.

FILE: 201-1254083

D. ( (DICKEY) ), DENNIS B.

DIRECTOR,

FAR EAST TECHNICAL OPERATIONS

MINNEAPOLIS, MN.

15 AUG 42, MINNEAPOLIS,

C/O RANGOON CALLED TOL-O-MATIC ON 26 AUG 88.

WAS

TOLD BY SECURITY OFFICER THAT SUBJECT HAD BEEN ACTING STRANGELY

AND WAS GOING TO SEE PSYCHIATRIST.

RECOMMENDED CONTACT BE

DROPPED.

FILE: 201-1259101.

B.

( (FEKETE) ) , DANIEL W.

< EXECUTIVE>VICE PRESIDENT, MINNEAPOLIS OPERATIONS

AIRCRAFT SUPPORT INTERNATIONAL (ASI)

MINNEAPOLIS, MN.

25 MAY 1942, TANGIERS, MOROCCO (NAT US CIT)

DO NOT CONTACT - FORMER NATCO EMPLOYEE

E.

( (FUHR)) , EBERHARD JOHN

1060 27TH AVE SE, APT D,

MINNEAPOLIS, MN.

IN 1980'S SUBJ CALLED AND WROTE OFFICE FREQUENTLY,

GIVING UNIVERSITY OF MINNEAPOLIS UPDATES. CONSIDERED A KOOK.

G.

( (GRUENBERG) ) , MICHAEL

PRESIDENT, ENDOTRONICS,

COON RAPIDS,

MN.

PER MPNC 24954,

25 MAR 87, SUBJ STEPPED DOWN IN

THE WAKE OF A NUMBER OF DEROGATORY NEWSPAPER STORIES CONCERNING

THE COMPANY. - STATION HAD NOI BEEN IN CONTACT WITH THE NEW CEO

AND DID NOT PLAN TO HAVE ANY CONTACT WITH THE COMPANY IN

FORESEEABLE FUTURE, EVEN THOUGH REPORTING CONCERNING CHINESE AND

SOVIET PURCHASES OF CELL PROGRAMS HAD BEEN WELL RECEIVED BY

ANALYSTS.

TERMINATED CONTACT WITH COMPANY UNTIL THE MATTER WAS

FULLY RESOLVED.

FILE: 201-1258076.

( (HALLEY)), J. WOODS

PROFESSOR

OF PHYSICS

SEPT 89 FBI ADVISED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL WAS NOT

PAGE :

2

H.

COOPERATIVE.

I .

COOPERATIVE.

( (HOOPER)) , ALAN B.

PROFESSOR OF GENETICS

SEPT 89 FBI ADVISED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL WAS NOI

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO

96-3312306

SENSIND

-I----

( (KWO)) ,

DAVID W.

3M, RIKER LABS PHARMACEUTICAL

2 JUN 35, SHANGHAI

FORMER NWBOLTON

EMPLOYEE

1973

BECAUSE OF SMUGGLING ACTIVITIES AND SALES OF ITEMS FOR MONETARY

K.

( (MAPP)) , GORDON A.

VICE PRESIDENT, INTERNATIONAL

THERMO KING CORPORATION

BLOOMINGTON, MN.

21 MAR 46, NASSAWADOX, VA.

PER NC/MINNEAPOLIS 12687,

SUBJECT WAS UNCOOPERATIVE.

FILE: 201-1268151; 301-3131263.

L.

( (MARZOLE) ), LYNN M.

VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER

KENSINGER INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

ST. PAUL, MN.

SUBJ DOES NOT WANT CONTACT WITH STATION.

M.

( (MOUROUKIAN) ) , RICHARD E.

DIRECTOR, CLIENT SERVICES

SYSTEMS

MINNEAPOLIS, MN.

5 NOV 39, SHANGHAI, CHINA

SUBJECT NOT COOPERATIVE.

201-1255214; 301-136898.

N.

( (0' BRIEN) ), KEIRAN W.

DANNY'S CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

SHAKOPEE, MN.

DPOB:

21 OCT 37, BELLE PLAIN, MN.

SUBJ NOT COOPERATIVE, HOSTILE

AND

SUSPICIOUS.

0.

( (OSWALD)) , ENU

_CEO, NATIONAL COMPUTER

DOIC: 18 NOV 87

DO NOT SEE AS LONG AS SUBJECT IS CEO.

P. ((QUIST)), B. WAYNE

PRESIDENT, EAGLE LAKE ENTERPRISES

SUBJ, A RETIRED AIR FORCE COLONEL, WAS BORDERLINE

HOSTILE AT INITIAL MEETING, CITING BAD EXPERIENCES WITH

NWBOLTON

PERSONNEL DURING THE VIETNAM WAR.

C/O DID NOT ANTICIPATE ANY

FURTHER CONTACT. (SEE NR/MINNEAPOLIS 15213, 18 OCT 93)

Q.

( (SHAPIRO)) , ELSA

PROFESSOR OF NEUROPSYCHOLOGY

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA

MINNEAPOLIS, MN.

DURING ONE-TIME DEBRIEF SEPT 87 SUBJ INDICATED SHE

DID NOT-WANT-CONTINUING-CONTACT:

SECRET

PAGE:

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO

96-3312306

SENSIND:

PAGE:

4

R.

( (STAGEBERG) ), JAMES

STAGEBERG PARTNERS, INC.

MINNEAPOLIS, MN.

MET IN JUN 87.

DECLINED OFFER OF FURTHER MEETINGS.

S.

( (WANTA) ), LEO

AKA LEO VANTA

PRESIDENT,

AMERICHINA GLOBAL MANAGEMENT GROUP

APPLETON, WISCONSIN

PER DIR 749175, 22 JUL 89, SUBJ AN NWBOLTON AGENT

IMPOSTER AND NON-VIOLENT CRANK.

SUBJECT IS NOT TO BE MET BY

STATION PERSONNEL.

HAD APPROACHED FOREIGN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

AND NWBOLTON ASSETS WITH OFFERS TO SELL VARIOUS NON-EXISTENT

GOODS.

T.

( (WEIBEL) ), FRIDERICK (FRITZ)

PRESIDENT, TECH-TRADE CO.

MINNETONKA, MN.

DPOB: 26 MAY 56, SOLOTHURN, SWITZERLAND (NAT.

U.S. CIT.)

IPMS RECORD DID NOT CONFIRM SUBJECT'S U.S.

CITIZENSHIP (SEE DIR 492608,

8 JUN 87)

FILE:

201-1260191

U.

( (WOODWARD) ), VAL W.

PROFESSOR, GENETICS

- CELL BIOLOGY

IN 1989 FBI ADVISED SUBJ WAS NOT COOPERATIVE.

2. CL BY: 0622961, CL REASON: 1.5(C), DECL ON: X1.

3.

FILE: 100-120-404.

_DECL, DRV HUM 4-82.

END OF MÉSSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

---

