# 104-10107-10135

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10107-10135

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OGC 69-0181

31 January 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Herbert Itkin

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. A meeting was held on 27 January 1969 with Messrs.

Rocca, Houston, Warner and myself to discuss the ramifications

of the confrontation with the New York FBI office on 17 January.

It was concluded that additional information was required on

O5(Thomas L. Roberts) and (Robert Delson. I contacted the Director

of Security and requested the security files on these two individuals

and was advised that we could not have the security files but that

Mr. Ward Greene would bring the files to the office and discuss

their contents openly.

03

2.

On 290 January, Mr. Greene brought the security files

on (Boberts) and (Delson) and was most cooperative in explaining

their contents.

Attached is a chronological rundown on the

pertinent information on Thomas L. Roberts' affiliation with

the FBI, CIA and Itkin.

03

3. On 30 January ameeting was held With Messrs. Houston,

Warner, Rocca, and Eugene Milligan, CCS/LPGLOBE, to discuss

the said we in ee best 61 (0omm arch 2964 co

a west Atrican de gar time i is Africa tie that nograph

task was performed under a grant from a foundation which was

blown in the MHDOWEL exposures. In November 1964 Roberts) 03

assigned for Cover to the Radio Corporation of America zi

legal staff where he remained until March 1965 and then went

to (Dakar).

12-10

minis.

148800

---

## Page 2

4-00000

оз.

1 The facts in the attached chronology are subject to

question since they are the result of Roberts) own explanation of

his affiliation with Itkin rather than having been determined from

independent sources. The most critical aspect would appear to

be the knowledge or suspicion that Itkin may have known of

o} Roberts) affiliation with CIA. This knowledge is borne out by

the strange way in which Itkin repeatedly brings (Robertsy name

into the story which Itkin develops about his CIA affiliations.

One of the questions

vie a the do iong to be ate ned cities it perio in Geneva,

Switzerland, in March 1966.

03 (Roberts having explained why he never pursued the Itkin debt or

what his financial contribution was to the law firm of Itkin, Robertsu&

and Greeabaum.)

5. Mr. Rocca was advised by Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI

that the New

York District Attorney may be considering prosecution

against (Robelt for having absconded with funds received from

negligence cases. We do not have sufficient information to evaluate

the likelihood of criminal prosecution. It may be necessary to

discuss this problem with representatives of Mr. Hogan's office.

6. With regard to Robert Delson) there appear to have been

two operational considerations, one having been a request to use

him with Project DTPILLAR from November 1953 to February

1955, and then a request in 1963 by the Domestic Operations

Division for his use on Project WUBRINY. In March 1964 DO

Division advised Security that Delso?) was not going to be used

on WUBRINY. Mr. Rocca commented that there are some rather

ominous allegations against members of the firm of (Delson, Levinu&

carryin member one at one me Perto the fine wesent time.

At the present tim

Mr. Rocca is investigating the DIPILLAR use of Mr. (Delson)

03

OHN K.

GREANES

Cadetstant cenerat Eumadl

Attachment....

cc: C/CI/R&A

---

## Page 3

4-00000

7 March 1966

15 March 1966

Nov 1966

(Roberts

received letter from Itkin but his

secretary advised that (Roberts was.

. on vacation

in Austria. Itkin contacted (Roberts in Austria) i

and set up meeting in (Geneva, Switzerland,)

Meeting at (Hotel Beau Rivage) in (Geneva)o

Present were Itkin and (wife), (Jim Marcus),0

16 (Littman) and (wife) Meeting lasted three days.

off the ground.

(Robelts) in New York City, met at (Marcus's):

apartment with Itkin and (Marcus's) father.

Then met Itkin again at a dinner given by

(Mario Brgd.)

Nov 1967

the press about the (Marcus scandal.

3

---

## Page 4

4-00000

."

Nov 1949

Jan 1950

Nov 1950

Aug 1955

Nov 1955

June 1956

Fall 1956

Apr 1957

6 Apr 1961

1 June 1961

....

(IHOMAS I. ROBERIS )

08

(Roberts) volunteered his services to (Boston FBI;

not accepted.

Roberts left United States to study in (Paris)

From Nov. 1950 until Nov. 1955 reported on

security matters to the Boston FBI) Office,

Labor Youth League.

08,03

Itkin (bired Roberts) to work for Delson, Levin &

Gordon.) (Roberts) says he was hired to handle of

maritime matters| in litigation.)

Robert) moved to New York City.

z4

Resumed services of reporting to FBI

Was a

paid informant of (New York FBI)office reporting

on the National Lawyers Guild. 24

(Roberts) and others submitted profit-sharing plan

to belson, Levin & Gordon) not accepted.

(Roberts) resigned from (Delson, Levin & Gordon)

to form a new firm, Roberts, Greenbaum & Itkin. 08

(No mention of financial arrangement of setting

up new firm.)

(Boberta) came to Washington and talked with

Robert Amory about employment

with CIA since

and filled out an application for employment with

CIA.

Roberta took a leave of absence from the (firm of oб

Roberts, Greenbaum & Itkin which was.

to last

from 1 June 1961 through 31 May (1963) (Roberts)oz

SEU...

---

## Page 5

14-00000

12 July 1961

25 July 1961

Aug 1961

Sept 1961

24 May 1963

May 1965

26 May 1965

16 June 1965

10 Nov 1965

Jan 1966

Feb 1966

was to receive $100) per week from the firm

while on the leave al absence. (Robertaj did

receive the

09(18 June) 1962 48$500)

NOTE: Roberts) 3

received only @1, 000) when he should have

received ($ 700))

(EBl)advised that, Roberts) was still reporting

to them in New York.

(Roberts) was given CIA polygraph interview.

(Robert? approved by Office of Security for CIA

employment as a Staff Agent.

29

@BI advised they had broken off all contact

with (Boberts.) 03

(Roberts) wrote letter to (irm) withdrawing his

membership effective 61 May) 1963.

to England in order to get the money out of

reach of Itkin's first wife.

Robert arrived in (Dakar.))

(Roberts) seat $500 to Itkin, in Eagland after

asking Itkin about a desk and chair to be sent

to Roberts, in (Dakar)

03(Roberts forwarded money to Aida Itkin in England.

Itkin advised Roberts) about the formation of

(Conestoga, Itd.)

Itkin wrote to (Roberts about Senator Lodge.

---

