# 104-10215-10003

## Page 1

74.00000

104-10215-10003

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

...

SECRET KAPEK

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO. HK1-A-L025

(201-16031)

13- stren

DATE: _ 1 November 1452

: Chief, WHD

FROM :

SUBJECT: GENERA- Administrative

SPEare-Arthur G. VAIVADA

1. Attached herewith is a menorendur prepared by the Subject, dated

2 October 195%, calling the attention of Headquarters to the fact that

his assignnent in Habana terminates in June 1958 and setting out his wishes

as to reassignent thereaiter.

2. While Valvada did not include it in his mencrandun, in recent

conversations with the case officer he has excressed considerable interest

an the possibility of being assigned under unofficial cover to Spajo,

saying that both he and his wife would welcome such an assignment.

Subject has also said in those conversations that he would not take it

amiss if an opportunity for reassignment outside of the Central Arerica-

Caribbean area were to becone open to him at any time prior to June 1958.

3. In the opinion of the Station, Vaivada has done a very good job.

here, having been confronted with and overcome a number of difficult

problems and situations during his tour of over tiree years in jabana.

The Station is happy to reccumend that his reguest for reassignent be

given every consideration.

дек,

Sames R. Oäloger

/James R. Palinge

Attachments:

Meno randm of Reassigonent (4 copies)

Distribution:

• - Washington w/att.

2 - Piles u/atto

4 Hovember 1957

DESTI

27220

fol Gaid 43-20

201-168881

te isis 51-28A

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

„МИРОК

---

## Page 2

14-00000

a-1-4-2

Havana, Cuba

29 October 1957

SUEJECT: Reassignment - Arthur l. Valvada

: Headquarters Desk

THROUCH: Chief of Station, Havana, Cuba

While at Headquarters in the early part of ray 1957, it was verbally

agreed that I return to Cuba for about one year, security permitting.

2. While my operational work in Cuba fron August 1954 until February

1957 was concentrated on communist targets in the Chiversity of Habana, 1t

should te pointed out that my dities during that period also involved many

contacts with subversive oppositionist elements.

then goverrrental persecution

increased during February 1957, two of my key agents were lost, one of them

by goverrmental assassination, so that I was obliged to leave Cuba temporarily

perding clarification of the security factors involved.

During my three

months'atsence in PEPRIME the local situation deteriorated; and after my

retura ny position was less favorable than it had been as a newcomer since I

had lost assets tut had retained the cumlative security hazards of three jears

of cultivation and recruituent efforts.

The University was, and still is,

closed. Our commist penetration efforts are continuously barrassed by

official persecution of the target group.

3.

Since by June 1958 I shall have spent four jears in Cuba, I believe

It appropriate to subbit this letter at this time requesting that Headquarters

begin to study the possibilities for reassignment about June 1958, or prior

to that date if recessary. As to future assignments, I have no reservations

or special recuests.

I am willing and repared to travel to any area

consistent with my qualifications.

Generally speaking, and for obvious

security reasons, I an interested in getting out of the Central Anerica-

Caritkean area if possible.

It may be recalled that I was denied an Argentine

visa in 1953, for purely tecbnical reasons. This situation may be changed,

and I sould not be opposed to a tour in argentina, Chile, or any of the South

American repablies.

In this matter, the nature of the new project or

assigntent would take precedence with me over personal preferences as to

particular area of assignment.

for £8l 43-23

tEt AKHA 4025

•7N6U57

261-168881

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Reassignment - Arthur G. Vaivada

29 October 1957, Page 2

Regarding my cover status: I entered Cuba in 195L under student

cover (Pan American Foundation Scholarship), and as it becane increasingly

nore difficult to maintain owing to student disturbances, I comoleted a

course in the writing of free-lance fiction and am thrice published.

This

writing has been used as a realistic, stopgap cover, even after I was

provided with a notional business cover (Public Surveys Institute) by Read-

quarters.

I understand that Journalism 1s considered a weak and time-korm

cover; yet if it 1s worled at, and financially managed through a PERIME

checking account, it not only satisfies local SS probes bat it does not have

the inherent disadvantages Involved In setting up a full-fledged business

cover.

I set this out as a possible suggestion to Headcuarters, but have

no insistence as to journalistic over business cover.

The notional

Lusiness cover provided me has proved satisfactory in a linited sense thus

far, ind even utilized as cover for action occasionally, but I would be

uncertain about introducing it in a less "Americanized" country than Cuba.

: *.

Zither 6. Vamoda

-thur G. Vaivada

* 1 a37

201-168881

---

