# 104-10071-10102

## Page 1

104-10071-10102

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

caief, WOMUSE

INFO

FROM

Chief, European Division

Chief of Station, Oslo

SUBJECT

RYBAT/MECHAOS

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Transmittal of Clippings

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Transnitted herewith are three untranslated clippings from

Norwegian newspapers which may be of interest to woMUsE.

Raymond N. Mansour

лаудона її. MNSOU?

Attachment:

Clippings

-b/w

Distribution:

2 - Chief, WOMUSE w/attachment b/w

2 - Chief, European Division w/o attachment

7540

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OWOT-2911

CLASSIFICATION

- SECRIT/RYBAT

DATE

19 March 1969

HOS FILE NUMBER

200-006-387/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

„Sorte Pantere" for

en sosial revolusjon

«Punteren» Bobby Seale hom til Oslo idag

_ Vi vil bevise at det sosia.

listiske samfunn er bedre enn

det kapitalistiske: vi vil innfore

dette i ESA og vi vil samarbeide

med revolusjonare i alle land,

sa lederen for det amerikanske

«Black Panthers-partiet da han

i morges kom til Osto. Seale er::

pà besok i Skandinavia for à

¡fortelle om sitt syn pà kamDen.

mellom rasene i tSf. Som ar-

rangor for besoket I Norge stär

den norske «Black Panthers-

komité og Red Front.

- Intet har bedret forholdene for

det sorte Amerika under tidligere

presideni

Jobnson; : 0g president:

Nixons

forslag om & innfore esort

kapitalismes. I ghettoene :vil : bare

oze foletsen av sort rasebat, bevdet

Seale, sam understretet at de «sorte.

panteres inze gnster sitt eget. ad-

Lederen for det amerikanske «Black

salte samíunn

Rasene bar. leret

Panthers-parti, Bobby Seale,: ved

adskilt i 200 ár,;og nu er det pá

ankomsten til Fornebuora ra1e

tide & gă fremover.: sa. den meret.

2 (Foto= Brniulo dorthun)

ieltalende Bobby Seale.: Elans ut

.....t.1

rybasmate tat overveiet og polert,

med for tanken om alt annet had-

bortsett fid i gjentatte: henvisnin-

Ide. sviktet. Stokely Carmichael er

ger til politiet i USA som ban bal-

staisminister .j vàr, rskyggeregje-

Ier agrisers (pigs):

rings, men bar kommet med en.

Forste gang

«Black" Panthers:

keite uttalelser. om agressivitet/ og

partiet gjorde: seg kjent var da

separatisme som virikke helt: kan

Bobby Scale of en

annen .av: par-

godta, sa Bobby Seale, som motte

tieis ledere, Huey P. Newton, i ok-

Norge med Ma0-profil 1 luen, 'og

iober 1966 organiserte væpnede: pa-

en beklagelse over at lkke: fjern-

3iruljer som skrulle overväke: poli-

synets sameramenn var mott frem

tets bebanding av negrene." New-

för ä dekke begivenheten.

ton sitter nu.fengsiet for: à ha skutt

en politimant. og et av partiets mãl

er à là ham trigitt.

- USA er en politistati fortsaite

Seale og herdet at det sorte sam-

tunn má iæres opp dil seirforsvar:

Fian tror izke pà flere säkalte *bete

sommeres, fordi han mener at det.

sorte

samfunn

har innsett - util-

streskeligheien ar spontace oppror.

Mer effektivi arbeidende organisa-

sicner har man resDexi for, la ban

Et ar de forste tiltak partiet har

sait i vers er à organisere: felles

ircsost for fattige barn, for det

meste negre. Dernest bàper partiet

pá

à

organisere

sosialistiske 0y-

samfurn

for de som mâtte vare

interessert. Partiet arbeider nemlig

late bare for segre. men for: alle

undertryste. minoriteter.

Dessuten

sober partiet à samarbeide med hra

Seale kaier « progressize hrites elem

menter i samfunnet.

_ Vi

godtar.. ikke betegnelsen

•Lrigersios : (militant). Vi herder

nogrecdigneten ar seivforstar, det

nar vist seg à vare nodvendig. Seir

Marthin Luther King Far, ikke frem-

ATTACEMENT TO OWOI-2911

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HIlack Pantherap

for a

Social Revolution

"Panther" 0337 s8A2 cane to

Oslo today

we will show

that

Socialist society is better than Capitalist

society; we will introduce it in the United States and we will

cooperate with revolutionaries in all countries, said the leader

of the American "Black Panther" Party when he came to Oslo this

morning.

SEATE is on a visit to Scandanavia to express his views

about the struggle between the races in the United States.

The

"Norwegian "Black Panther" Committee and Red Front arranged the

visit.

Nothing has improved conditions for Black America under former

President Johnson, and President

Nizon's proposal to introduce "Black

Capitalis" in the ghettoes will only increase feelings of black

racial hate, asserted StAlE, who emphasized that the "Black Panthers"

are not seeking their own separate society.

The races have lived

saparately for 200 years and now it is time to go forwara, said the

very eloquent BOBBY SEALE, His manner of expression was judicious and

polished, aside from repeated references to the "Police Force" in the

Us, which he calls "pigs".

-1-

---

## Page 4

14-00000

The "Black Panther" Party became known for the first time

ween BO-BY SEES and one of the Party leaders, FUBT P. NEWION

organized armed patrols in Cotober, 1966, which were to watch police

Ercatoont of legroes. ChIOir is now in prison for shooting a police-

nan and one of the Party's goals is his release.

The USa 1s a police state, SAid continued, and he maintains that

black society mist learn to defend itself. He does not believe in

rany so-called "hot sunners" because he believes that black society

nas realized the inadequacy of spontaneous riots. However, he asserted

effectively working organizations are respected.

One of the Party's first efforts was the organization of break-

tEsts

for poor children, for most

negroes. The Party next hopes to

organize a Socialist municipality for those who must be interested.

Ine Party works not

only for Negroes, but for all oppressed minorities.

In addition, the Party is seeking to cooperate with what SHAlE calls

"progressive white" elements in society.

He do not approve the term militant. We assert the need of self

defense, inich nas turned out to be urgent. liven Hartin luther king

ries not

averse

to the idea that everything else had failed.

STOKELY

CARNICEAL is Prime Minister in our " shadow Government", but he makes

stetements about aggressiveness

and separatism whick: we can not completely

approve, said BOBBY SPArE, "no came

to Norway with a Mao badge in his cap

and a complaint that to television cameramen: appeared to cover the events.

-2-

---

