# 104-10055-10058

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10055-10058

- 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SBCBEI

Chief of Station, Bangkok

Chief of Station,

Rangoon

Chlet, Far Fast DivIsion

Chief of Statios, (Melbourne

@Patrick PO ELA

BBIBFEROES:

A.

B.

C.

D.

DIRECTOR S1594

BANGKOK 3988

MELBOURNE 6905

BANGKOK 3809

Action Roguired:

Please advise 1f still destrod that

Melbourne Station contact subject

In response to a brief letter fron the undersigned,

which queried bia general plass, sabject has replled par

attachaent.

Please note that he can make ulnsell available

arter & Hovenber 1968 for discusslons with Melbourne. The

Stazion defers to Bangkok and Director bether It is st1ll

desired that me summon subject to Melbourne for talks along

the lines Indicated la referenCe D.

2.

far hangoon; hote ponultinate paragraph of subject's

lotter in which he ladleates that hla daughter and lantly are

plannlag to leave Rangoon perzianantly. The nanner la walch

this 18 phrased leaves It unclear whether they are attempting

this overtly or working behind the scenes.. The Station notes

Iron BANGKOK 9542 of I May 1968 that the daughter 15 narrled

to a Buraa Alr Farce pilot.

Sisice ve do sbt have any sures,

It may be unlikely that Bangood rould have any latorantion

on the case.

GHVOLB

Attachsent: herewith

Letter

Distribution:

2 -

cos, Bangkok y/att

1

COS, Rangoon

Matt

]

j2 - C/FB u/att 2 cys

att.

cy

FAMA 5803

SECRET

ES COPY

201-073217

10 October 1968.

(8 October 1968)

Not known

In manhar 10f9

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Naheck Fohen

CON. A: B3

KIETA

BOUGAINViLLE,

New GuNEA.

2h Octeber 1968

Dean Inr

→ thank gro for you let i o 2344

september, re routed here

gam done 9 could int come a de you

y his cole pening things The is cont

I cout be discin will ne s net a friend in That

en ronte la Perth and he wanted ane to fin his businen.

3 haun

Puen as on the Capp

jab cris be teiminatei

months nitre in sitter

side althugh it an a priament basi

un an arden ant Cancinst ind

dedicate My cohole life la combatinths eveni

ito: destro

one: west!

ma pen for the sa

bents word ten anyte

on a shoit. term

o be in aunter ponte

like that of the old contact in Vict han a

---

## Page 3

14-00000

work. Hu Victnames

cate ch are awand a Ch Matunil Police That,

17225

gain

find matter whe con deto wis fit and

a fee minds if ength ot consens

laughtes;

in lai did grandson this outy

intent o lost freiane to beans

lo lean Ragon for goate for Australe

die course

Tie got he for

you letter call bank wither

Your bring,

Matick

Сі Рожен

---

## Page 4

14-00000

DISTAN

BOUGANNVLLE

New GuiNEA.

21 October: 1968

Dear

xen

letter apeand n

So thank gio to you like of see

september, resoritar

am doug o credit come aid de

here colice paning thugh the bore

a seck of a chunk o have in vas a the anger

The cord a discin will as I met a friend in th

en sonte la Perth and he wanted an to jon his t

Puenme Oficu on the Cop agar hue.s

33122

on a shoir. tean

bent to be eit do i an pita

like that of the old conticer in Vict hai

eneme see not candied she topus of

that this nosed be ns diffcuety ab

the extension often the mitice. two years.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

artiy hae pile ne ert ng agui,

pirecitte

Se ntas achan

lseveiamert awanded ta

th natune V oliis Nida

ves fonnd

geay cnt me bo di ber ie yin flei

s dng, gagn ma a tn thcng nng

ia fe tr chit en deng ng preum cint

raighter,

wfanlwng

9 look nwal l heo

due Cenine .

Bne git s han for. to?

your letln hal beat wish

Your sining

Natuak

CiOHA

201-072217

---

