# 104-10161-10097

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10161-10097

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT, JOHN E. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ABLE SEY DISSEM BY

b. _PER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED

"ERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

DVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED EVA

AT 1255 €

•CTION UNIT

FF. FILE.

VR. IP/AN, C14, COSa, SECUR:

218

N

F

ICTION $

OGE a, COMMeS, ODO, DDA

STAFF

DA6

OSB

ENGE

631054

EIA355

PAGE 21

TOR: 261252Z JAN 76

IN

805199

, AMA DP.

29824

SE C

261332Z JAN 76

STAFF

15-2

CITE @ADRID/29824

15-15

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, LISBON.

MISPLASH

1. MORNING 25 [JAN KALBING RECEIVED PHONE CALL AT

HOME FROM YOUNG MAN WHO SAID HE CHRIS PHILLIPS, SON OF DAVE

PHILLIPS. HE SAID HE ON VACATION AND REQUESTED INFO ON WHAT

TO SEE AIND DO IN MADRID AREA.

ALSO ASKED IF POLITICAL SITUATION

IN PORTUGAL SUCH THAT TRAVEL THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM. [RAL-

BINGWAS ON WAY TO MEETING AND ASKED THAT HE CALL BACK LATER.

HE DID, AND SAID HE TRAVELING TO LISBON THAT NIGHT AND WOULD

RETURN MADRID LATER IN WEEK. HE SAID HE DID NOT HAVE ADDRESS

IN MADRID AT MUMENT AND WOULD CALL CHALDING AGAIN UPON RETURA

TO MADRID,

2. WE SOMEWHAT SUSPICIOUS THIS CALL SINCE ALBING DOES

NOT KNOW CHRIS PHILLIPS, ALTHOUGH IT PUSSIBLE HIS FATHER GAVE

• HIM KALEING'S NAME AS SOMEONE TO HELP HIM WITH TOURIST QUES-

TIONS, ALSU DOUBT THAT PHILLIPS WOULD HAVE CA-LED BACK IF HE

ONLY PRUBING FOA LOCATION OF CIA PERSONNEL, SINCE FIRST CALL

WOULD HAVE CONFIRMED WHAT HE WANTED KNOW. CHECK WITH MARINE

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4/00

---

## Page 2

4-00000

• " AbLE SEC DISSEM aVO

PER

TOTAL COPIES

JUN BY

SECRE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHIR THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

• ENSON UNIT NOTIFIED.

DVANCE COPY ISSUED/ SLOTTED

•CTION UNIT

"RF.

STAFF

BY

_ AT

FILE .

VR .

N

F

2

3

5

ICTION #

7 631834

E1A355

PAGE 82-02

TOR: 261252Z JAN 76

IN 805199

15-2

[MADR

29824

GUARD REVEALED THAT SOMEONE HAD CALLED EMBASSY MORNING 25 JAN

ASKING FOR I ALBING'S MOME PHONE, MARINE GUARD FURNISHED THE

NUMBER, ALTHOGEN RECENT EMBASSY INSTRUCTION IS NOT TO GIVE OUT

SUCH NUMBERS BUT ASK CALLER FOR HIS NUMBER AND SAY PERSON WILL

GET IN TUUCH WITH HIM,

3. CAN HES CONFIRM THAT CHRIS PHILLIPS TRAVELING IN

IBERIA AND. THAT DAVE PHILLIPS GAVE HIM NAMES OF PEOPLE.

TO CALL ON THERE?

15-15

4. LLISBOND PHILLIPS MAY ALSO CALL ON PERSONS YOUR

STATION WHO KNOWN TO DAVE PHILLIPS.

5, FILE: DEFER. EZ IMPDET

3/08

---

