# 104-10110-10433

## Page 1

-00000

104-10110-10433 -

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE NO.

We 057

DATE

S: iNg 1651

SYNOPSIS

11ve addrass established at 5511 jesun jerest, lo

never, harylana, on 17 lay 1901. lionarioler eu

11l adult nambors of his fanti vars trierin. Mo:us.

Pout office to nutily latterills) rest cities.

Unlon tolagren foraried on 18 Me LiGI for aludye G.

DARBRUET.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

*:25g

REPORT NO.

---

## Page 2

$62 067

23 Mey 1961

CHORTERAL

At (Chover) 7e Maryland:

on 17 May 1951, a liva caress was establishod sox Gladyo

0. DAMBHUrT at GoLl Jeson Street, Cheverlad Haryland, through the

cooperatien of Or. Bad As and Aune D. SAlJOC, bourerolder at

on the ensa date, tro. (BALLOOA bor davettor, (Patricia) and.

80s, ourse, were bilefed to the effect that they should acoept

ay cables,

lotters, telegrang or telephone ealls for sirs. DAYBRuNT.

In the orant ery inquirles tor receired concernlag tire. DEBRINt,

they were to airlea that ire. RalalunT bas resiang with them but

that she sa not arallable at the sent.

They ware to determine

It the call vas son"

back later as hrs. DAMAur? and receive the masaga and request i fal

delivery of the vitten cable or telegran. In the event the irguli:

Win fion any other source, they vare to contast the reporting Agent

Imitatoly.

soa cans Individusla vara further briefed, l0 genaral, as to

sity the, DAlBRuit? was oxyposodly rasiding with thea and vto she vas

BasetIng soNs lord of concUNlestIon. wey vara Informsd that Mrs.

LAY tas tiR NOther Of BUstaCo H. DifbRuit, sho vas being hele

The sother bas sent a cablo

Bo bit son ashing how ha 19, vorther ho soeds axything, laguiring

If tbera la surything she eas do for hin, ani astong bin to plaase

GOnest t1th bIT. Sta 11 nor a4s1t1n3 and expecting Buse fora

of reply from kia

On the following dey, 18 May 1961, DX. (CALLOO) 128 Contactod.

to abora Iniorsution had buen related to him by lira. BALIOON)a1

ins reguest of the Reporting Igent o Di. (SITOO%) bas requested te

noBly the Chover)y and the Eyattsville Post Offices that Kes.

Itature vas realding at his hone and ary mall received for her.

Bhould ba delivaras to sla addregs.

On 28 Isay 1961, DE. (SALICO ELs RigaIn custzated and, do advised

Bust to had personally called the Icstalatress at tha Cherurly) Post

OrtIco regarity delivosy of Ma. DURANT'S 1211 cod had rogucated

---

## Page 3

t69 067

Dor, In tura, to notify tha (Hyattars 1l0) Post offico.

DE. BALIDOL La a UOL1-B00ia Hashlaston drattat!

He maintainad

an 018100 at 810 "y" Strrot, 5. Egfor a nuder of ycara until so o8

mas drafted lato ailitary servide.

he served in the Army as a don-

ELEt and 1son hia relcase, ss s lieutenant coloneL, so paropera

08 11s 19rate preetice tith an office at 1U35 "I" Stract, I. H,Ofor

i mawer of yours sa vas on the stail of Georgetom Valveruity as 06

sa 1ns55u0r0r of tontietry in tho Georgeton Dontal Schoolo% He

sa reniced inChgyurly) Marylandgfor at least the past treaty

sars, prorlowly at 2316 laurel venue and currently at C6u10i

Jason Straet, M1 dsughter, Patrio:doble attending Maryland Un1-

TElalT. RIs son, (George, 18 attording (St. Jaba'» College X1go

322001.

Dally contact was maintained with Do. (SALlOO)en 22, 23 and

84 My 1957. As of the latter dote, so ocreunicatian bad so yot

boon raceived for Mrs. DaHakurs.

On 18 Hey 1961, a Heatson Unlon Telegrua vas sent to flustaco

DAKANT, Reclusorlo Maelonal, Ruora Gerona, Isla de Pinos, Caba.

A cupy of tula telegraa is attached ca Labibit 11.

attachazats

Bolost fl (Hestern Uulon Tulagran datod 18 in 1961)

=2=

171180

i. .

---

