# 104-10183-10346

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10183-10346

To inte

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce.

TO

SENDER WILL CHÈCK CLASSIFIC

IN TOP AND BOTTOM

CONFIDESTIAL

I SACKET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROCTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

Yank Flynn

13/23

85.

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

A INFORMATION

Hemarkss

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

FIl

I've

led when to king?

maste aid africa polite.

Milied 1o.

no part mad hut tell i

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS ANO

PHONE NO

DATE

UNCIASSIFIED

1024, N0. 237

Use previous editions

CANFIDENTIAL

SECHET

(60)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• MESSUILANDIES: 88J8: DISCOTOS OF TrAINING

ATTENTION.

Chlot, rovert Trainson/us/ill

eye canoning for comber us ian]

HEHLAIN:

Frupard iradaing Currsoilua sor ExPon]

Tralncea irou CC/US/TU

1.01it to roquratad that covort trainitos bo Elvon to

the Cervour eraturea sluted volose ior the poriod of & Murch -

330.

Thn flrat group una leen given an 3 nools covort

course ending on 26 Fibruars 1065.

The trances will bo

ti kantington undor tho notionnl oover of "partloipallig

1si mliltory training cuuroca" or pogsluly a "surchanlne

As ouch, thay will not be

son viattora in will not do exuanted to ontoi

lowquartore butlalage,

oxcept fur one day trainlag in

2408 a Timeon rolationald with tha brezuelan Armed 24

covere truinlug cun holy laprove the affludoucy and

y07911

---

## Page 3

24

incorand arcurity or stil vuici will

•viganantlou to raro effoctively costut ebo ostronine

¡ conariot turdy lot Vonouolo titu add ond oncourairsout

• cistro lu his effort lu

Urlug cious cuursula: tole-over

li ludin duorlon.

luidog tha diheront valus of the

1013118

loell, que carating uo tur erniolnE

miscion amprovo bia dally operational novoclacion

L la che lucure.

Urdoutritdon 1r Cougtur

Insurgoney lo alou bolix incitioi to giveshin orficiale 24

• ¿runter isntouros oi tha proudon aud thut to las ¿tiò

ground vork sor suturo wurkilo tbio fiold.

3.

Tho roaponelllo dosk oporations orfloor for insa

COUTOO

will be dr. Lillian E. Cavno uno will to lova

to the iraluoco 83

"1:111 Cabal", the savo identity he

used with tho first groui.

¡n Agency serviced te:ophone

anaber..

838-3120 248 Inva arrangod and vail la givon to

"Dill Cabal" con bo

oa0a0d In ou emerecueyon Thie nunint lo doriond ?

nourn a day and tir lovin lo innolntoly Dotifiod to 0811

the porense silo notici lof bin ut tuat nuador.

1a locutod in roon 3i2ul3 of liociquartora Bulldios,

1r. [Carado 3

AstONBION

4521.

Tho soilovuit is pertinent biographlo data on

the trainoos:

Druis: (La Guatra, Souazuela, 25 Septoador 1923] 08

Marital Scatua: Married @ 4pr1l 1019. Man threo

saall dillared.

0%

astondor sto Infantry

school at tort Bonning.

roorela,

in 1950 ADil atudied Eugllob

luorican Unlvergity.

1 LO6T 09

in attonded the drgoutine dro

ebool of liar for guvrotlentols

12 roatho.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

3126 2,0/00211

laiguag0 .1udl1ty:

suanigb and none !sydleh

(4og11a1 118800co

" B1T.").

d'roaond Status:

cuios os ndadusotratson @y s ri]08

las vinftrd tho Usd and ligéritira

Arei anouleciço:

l'revioug Jutolligence

Trdlslug:

Nonc 1ud10a80d.

triss t43

probisialy hanl mone sutaidegencos

ralning +1411

i tre

Vonuzuolau dray or ula (arkentine

courro.

Othor:

musch00wconndoroBujoradosolusteutlai.d

corultlou teturn to lonczudla Bad Burrost

lan un iívies apeotal attoutiou. ll.

MajOr LULA AIrOnGO C'1aN] 06

08

il'Ol::

O Sopterbor 1938, lad linneas, Stato of bolliore)

_Voaczuola.

Marital Status:

Married 1902, buu o Bxall callarno

10

Forual Education:

Hagh School, Sinracan, 1919-1950.

Eutored the

FrnoLUCTOn aILLtOrD O8

BUrViCO Iu

1048 aul ber taler

Intermesllaio and advancou courgoe

lu tho Venuruclan Torantry 4clna1.08

Iio 11058

cotraandled rifle platuods

and sofautry corpistdos nod ban

(Schoni of the louazunlas Áray.

Language Al111t}:

l'reseut statua:

Only notlvo spaulab

SPiA Tureloral; axoct eltin aoe

imdltonted.

d'rovious Intolllganoo

Tralaiug:

not ladtoatod

1.2. Colouel Haul IheN:, Gainzg 06

• 08

D7Oi" He beemnaey 1012, saa rollro, stato of jaraouy,)

MiTElal Slatad:

iiorriro-ulso 1o jlaslda durou do

1198007

19/p0

---

## Page 5

14-00000

iran me

d.

Formal [dubatloa:

int. 118601.

M11tary nobody.

-Lasquago Aullles: Not Indicatos

Isonout Status: Joputy Dircotor of SIAl D8

trovious Iutolligonce

Truluing: Not ludloated

iroa linowlouge: liot ludicatou.

06

Othor:

(launod has reccatly von nanda boputy OB

Direstor o1 SIPAlend ahould be Biven

¡otorouco as tha leador of the group.

& Aural 1926, Son Lusà, Stato of raiooa, 08

Martial Status: "arried, turoo cuildren

foread, Eduoatlon%

Veneauola 111

191% (Braduato).

nluo gonnated

Tuctics and tani variara, no voll

as tho courne of arudy givon uy

chelsuperios dor collego of she dr

Genesuolaa Mialatry of vir.

Ho

hod scroca in s vaslety or

Entis fron platoone taruuçio

battaliano us voll as inueruscor

08

hauguage N01l1tj:

to "Oporatlo0 inerloa", 08

Native Spaaish, ronus but does

10t ourai or urito auglio!.

120

coujetence

in undorstanding Angliah.

18 given as

"ralr".

1500

---

## Page 6

4-00000

Aron nuoNierigo:

suujoot a ouls travol outaldo ol

Nonozunla Mas to Colnaula

11

11

Irpulous lutellinonno

Tradalug: None ladinator lut yrolishly

lião bid soud intelliganco

training durios bie @/ltary] 08

o faroor.

"thnr:

i For de ly etcet to a cop on

It lo punlula that do le aware or Estation's 24

Jininod uith Venozucian politicniay.

pOlico (NIGEPOLY.

vithout lauwlag-tug

ietallo of tho tolatiooship.

l'On's for training lavo

In ansarid that tho traduces aro

nware of the incacy

artiliation of Munschlulland that the tratuing will lo

conduatod by CIA.

The biroctor of Slit lo avare

of

anacointlo: nd tes a10 roodived by the

Ded on 21 vuly 1909 dutica a vialt to tho u.s.

.

Trailog Bequiro.eurs: The brulaing obould le

hold

1u a sarchouso, conduacod lu spauloh nud on a full.

diwO

Tho sugarated dintos ure

irod & March througla

3 Ap211 1905

raining, ustillch have soon aurored by color, Covort

allitary

111ning

coror during tho trainiur period, sad 1t 18 ot

enticiguted thoy will outor loadquarters bullding.

011l le canen luto tho 8&s lallaing for a ouo-day

Tuny

Trioctriuntion in sral nud flapa mid sudlo sarsolllanor.

sor tule entrauce will lo coverod in a coperate

1 'Une-day urination course lu l'minter

INESIRENCy 1B UlAO discHosOU In a subergueut paragras

on doll us an extonalie luo-unas course 1u than and spolo

sor Clajor ochou at a tol suro House.

16-17

rogulrerants fur wil/os/overt Trainlus: EStatlon

Caracas lins aubaltdur tho dollowing recousondatioco ou

arcas willot should de covered la tisa triulug of they

officero:

m/us/Covert Training say coulfy end/or alapt

tho diat as nocersary.

n. The premiliation of Clunlestiso 1011r18100

l. iccurity

c.

146

---

## Page 7

14.00000 ....

d.

survell latree

Agcal Aoulultion

spurring

Adoradcout

Hecruitnout

•= TrOtHlOr

6.

Terdination

1. Ciondostino Coasunications

6. Countor intolligonoo

b. Interrogution

J. Intolligonco Renoaron and Analyalo

It do requested at Ground Mroush of SOU eate

Do perilceo oi Colonol Valeriano ovallablo for a oro-do.

ricatation 10 the latost tochniques used in dbo Isold o

counteriuourgoucy.

Tise traingdo aro woll avaro of tiso

genoral probloza and history of fighting guerrillas coo

ongaged iu oporationa at tue prosout.

It 10

subsosted that the lustructiono atrosa 1o0 of 10bolligezoo

In combatting guorrilla groupe dad ceana of proouring 18

to inoludo the crontiou of Intelligenco nots aconz peasants

1u tho afflictod arodo.

It to aloo collovod that cay

ourtent taforaction on

mouffloutdong 1n tho taction of

Mao Toe-tong would aloo: lo of vallo ea vould bo examplea

of tho usa of paychologioal variora prograss agaluat tho

querrillas sud tho intollootial loaders of the cocuualet

purts, cousiderod as tho sovluò force bonlod tho guerrilla

nas tallied to othor

lo the ground work for lossible luiuro nasoolation will

29

192

---

## Page 8

-7-

field.

Througe dr. Lulldo Jender of the diround lirauols or

of tho nano liranua,

mai-hadd day

oricrintlos pouroo was jivou to the first trainerA Mio

nuggrotel that a full day could lo hurriodent due to tto

lovel of duo above trulveos aul tho axporiondo tuay have

1u tula siold.

o. Orrougonenta have been node with ir. Lurto and

Mr, Critz Makonur rob/truining to provido ajor lula 06

alçondo chomwith a fluna mud sools courao for the

•periou of 19-30 AurAl at « I5U Safe locae.

Cuo FicIa dnd SOulo COuTO UlI VAROfIE CIA becouro 18

Informod of the oxtrodo loftiat offorta to ovorthron tue

/ Conezueloy kovensaout, mud it 1a folt that HUiSCHWOOD

can boop alroaye of the oporation.

BOONIAO OF SIRABLY

offiolent

the renorit of CIA linjur deboa would take the firut s1x

noahs of tho covore traluias course then dovote tho lout

two nocks to the l'inpo cus soula courso.

10.

It la also toquosted that TS"/ Traluing provido

a ono-üny courso 1n rudio survoillauce and flapo aud

seals for tho othor three traineca nt the ll &S Bulldiad.

This should de a very scuoral viloting lith the leaot

possible osphaoly on ocagilcated, ospcialvo equipout

that alput he lator requested ly tho trainoos.

¡doo as to spironchica and problean

In Elseue slalla no woll au tho pitcalla that abould le

Thin one-das courno was given to the firat throo

trafuse 610 macarad laprousod with the concepts donn

to thr..

LUTIN

Tho Otit

lostructor will

accompany tho truthous aud aot

as Ernaslator.

100

---

## Page 9

14-00000

4. 1=8

÷8

It la roquented that cl/(4

obtalu goralestor.

sor tho vialtoro to cuter the la

S Bullatus for this

tralulus unsch la solouulod for the 19tl of pral.

DiSHOND FITLGPILALD

Cadet

Wootera H'enlaphoro Ulvialon

•

Concus ianoes:

m/CT

Distribution:

Ories 1 - Addressce

- DDS THe

- CI/Stair

1-P1/015

~ TSD/TING

-

(/A1ll)

-

3

-

1, 3/VO

4920

---

