# 104-10183-10267

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10 183-10267

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NETURN C

Bad arount one enly

to Nother. 20se

CLASSIFEO MESSAGE

SECROT

10รท

i DRICTOR

FROM:

HOLGIGALI

ACTION, W41

SSPWn68370

SECRET 342223Z

DIR CITE TEGU 5633

PYBOUR PERUMEN ANNUG

FIFE TEGU 5623 (6 (562).

FOLLOWING FROM LAGOSCH

Lo PESUITS CHIti AND GUSCH MAD PRIVATE MEET SCiNING

1 SEPT VITH CONSE OF STATE COL. OSUALDO LOPEZ, LANGESCH BORD

ON DEA OPS AND ONCELIZATICE, INCLUDING INFO ON CARIO SOSA N. ArRO

EAGLIO MORENO ESPITAL QUES BUEGAS AND ANTONIO FEMALEZ IZA VICIE

WHO USES NO:DURAN DOES LE NUE CIGUEL MASCIA PROUTES ALSO

NU./'ISHED RECENT CHAVEL LISTS)IND COPY OF POL RECUT ASELNTS O

109.06

LOPEZ) ENMIDITLO RESO MOTORE TO REVILED ALL MORE, SAID

STOL. TWO DEAL GORALS TROUGH PILING CUTES DO X'RESSED

GILLISCISS LEND FULL COOPERAGION SAID GOVT NAG AUGUT 25 C0 TIES

UNDER ARLEST 1IO AS HAD TO RELEARE OTHERS FOR LAGA DE EV ENCE BUT

SECRET

REPODUE DO EY CARER MAN TO ECLE CONGE IS APRAGED

py No.

MIBR

---

## Page 2

CLASSED 915S*G1

SECRET O6 DRE

CAROLE OF MALLES

06.

AND WILLING MAN!

LACE OF SECURITY AN' CLUPETESCE I MIS SO-STATICES

A. ME MUST KEEP MATERIAL FUNNISHED: IN PERSOIRL POSSESSIC

OR DUN MORE BECAUSE OFFICE IS NOT SECURE.

BO MOST PECPLE IN GOVI INCLUDING INSE I! STEL AID POLICE:

ARE NOT SECURE EITHER BECAUSE SUSCEPTIELE TO BRIERS CR

NOT ABLE SAFEGUARD ANY CONFIDENCES.

CO NOBODY DE GOVI IS TRALED TO CORE WITH DEI ON'S. D6

DO GENERALLY GOVI PERSONNEL FAR LESS ASTUTE IHA SOSA MID

OTHER COX IES.

3- [LOPEZ CENTIOD FELIX OYUELA, CHIEF ANY ASVESTIGATON,

AS ONLY THUSTED AND REASONGLY COMPETENT PESSEN EUT ADEGO CYGELA

TOO BURDENED WITH OTHER DUTIES. THEREGE, SLEE SUITALLA CANDIDATE

WHOM ECHEZ)UILL ESDRODE TO PLANINO CAES SO SUDA FINER

COULD BE TRAINSO AND DEVOTE TINS TO SUBUERSIVE AND ESPICASS

MATTERS.

SECRET

STORET

718R

---

