# 104-10177-10226

## Page 1

104-10177-10226

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING.EMESSAGE

19

--

SHOMAL СВАТВАСБЕСЕКІ

cu

ONF 0

SLIDES CATCA

SECRET

com: c/i A 8 mro:,

muse floris

e/LSN/ID

4012, 466/000 a/9=3/1Te2 poms2

DISSEM BY: 278.

PER SON

132

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/ATTN: R-K- MCHARGUE/

GENERAL INVESTISRTIVE DIVISIONY

SECRET/BARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTIRON

OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.Y

FISCI-332/03277-76

SUBJECT:

POSSIBLE TRAVEL TO THE U.S. OF RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETEY

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION HAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO

ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN

ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY.Y

2. ACCORDING TO A SOURCE WHOSE RELIASILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTAB-

LISHED, RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, A CUBAN EXILE LIVING IN

NETO LES AS MPLOYEE E TELE A SERE CORATA PORTAE

CARACASE VENEZUELA EMPLOYED

SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION, IS LEAVING VENEZUELA ON

AN• DECEMBER .1976 AND GILL RETURN ON 7 JANUARY 1977. THE SOURCE

BELIEVES THAT MORALES' DESTINATION IS THE UNITED STATES SINCE HE

HAS LEARNED THAT MORALES HAS RECENTLY BEEN IN TELEPHONE CONTACT

DATT: M042

312/03777-86

ETT: :

1• 295923

-..:

COONCErTYIS CONCERT

REPRODUCIZOS BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING EÍTICE IS PRONIBITSO

E.2

IMPDET .

CL: BY: ------

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

1200

OMF O

0

19

pene

2

SECRET

sara

НА ЖЗЛОВ ПОРОЖЕЖА ТЛИВАЯ

CONF:

• IMFO: FRE

9804/83

DISSEM OY:

0

по wat я

0

AeraTo PER

WITH ONE PILAR ALÉON I O, UHO LIVES IN FLORIDA, AND UHOSE

U.S- TELEPHONE NUMBER IS 305-446-6722. ON HIS RETURN, MORALES

WILL MOVE FROM THE ANAUCO HILTON IN CARACAS, WHERE HE HAS BEEN

LIVING, TO AN APARTMENT HE IS TRYING TO OSTAIN CLOSE TO THE HOTEL-Y

3. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON ALFONZO.Y

4. THE ABOVE INFORMATION HAS BEEN MADE AVAILABLE TO THE

LEGAL ATTACHE IN CARACAS. NO FURTHER DISSEMINATION IS BEING

MADE -Y

S. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.N

BASED ON CARACAS 31720 IBIN-130856}

SOURCE:

WKDIET-2

OBJ:

FILE:

201-0285923

Mo00

2

PCS/INT-

AGCIDDO

Cabaldi

DATE: 17 DEC 76

ORICOHARRIET WEILER:LE

UNIT: C/LA/PNC/R

EXT:

945y

TAkeshous

C/PCEILIN

0211a8.70 070018

о ..

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUITE OrDES IS AROlIgITE."

IMPOET

Ar. U07255

---

## Page 3

4-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

A 21

OMF D

mebda.t

11o-0terce

STAFF

coAr. gLA 3

0

sere river sorro

1722334

36

ena

DIRECTOR

0856026 020998368 0,00080

960161

по точь

PER

TO: LAMIAMI INFO CARACAS.

UNINTEL RYBAT KASTONE MHSPIKE I

REF: CARACAS 32579 lIN 2308561 CHOT NEEDED BY LA/MIAMIS Y

# FOR STATION INFO, REF. REPORTED INFORMATION RECEIVED ON 1S

DECEMBER 25 FROM UNILATERAL STATION ASSET UNDIET-Z THAT RICARDO

MORALES NAVARRETE (201-02859231 IS LEAVING VENEZUELA ON 24

DECEMBER AND PLANS TO RETURN ON ? JANUARY 7?. UNDIET -2 BELIEVES THAT

- MORALES IS HEADING FOR U.S: SÍNCE HE RECENTLY HAS BEEN IN TELEPHONE

• CONTACT WITH ONE PILAR ALFONZO, FLORIDA TELEPHONE 305-445-6722.

THERE ARE NO CARACAS STATION OR HAS TRACES ON ALONZO. STATION HAS

PASSED THIS INFORMATION TO LEGATT CARACAS, AND IT ALSO IS BEING FUR-

NISHED TO FBI HAS. Y

₴:

FOLLOWING BACKGROUND IS PROVIDED IN CASE MIAMI STATION NO

LONGER. HOLOS FULL RECORDS ON MORALES. HE IS CUBAN-BORN, RECENTLY

NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZEN UHO IS VERY CLOSE TO ORLAND» TI

GARC I A VASQUEZ, DE FACTO HEAD OF DISIP; SERVED UNDER: GARCIA IN

DISIP; AND IN EARLY NOVEMBER UAS ACTIVELY INVOLVED IÜ DISIR, INVESTIGA-

TION OF 6 OCTOGER BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER, THOUGH BOTH HE AND

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

1i1-545963

1l dare is

REPRODUCTION SY OTMERTMA

"HE ISSUING OSFICE IS PROMIJITSO

E 2

CL BY:

•SECRET

IMPDET

007255.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

- ....

• 31

'''''''"

U

CMF C

iepes.s-.o

0)

d0g-140 19

• 1

STAFF

CONE

DIRECTY

-.:

INFO.

FILE

160/61

PiA

3 .....

GARCTS DAD CONNECTIONS MITH DELANDO BUSEH AND OTIS SUSPECTS IN

BONDING.

MORALES WAS RECRUITED IN MIARI LI FESRUARY DU FOR USE AS

RADIO OPERATOR AND MEMBER OF PARAMILITARY ENFILTRATION TESTO TRAINED

IN MIAMI AND AT ISOMETRIC, BUT TERMIMATED LUGUST S4 GITHOUT BEING

USED IN ANY AGENCY-SPONSORED MISSION AGIST CUSA, HE VOLUNTEERED.

SIGNED UO AND WAS TRAINEO TOUARD FOR DA ACTED L CONGE SEPTEMBER DU, "E

ALTHOUGH THERE IS CONFLICTING ENFO IN HEE FILE AS TO GETHER HE DID IN

FACT SERVE IN THE CONGO. HE LAS TERMITES IN DECENSER BI. CFOR

GOENDS

CARACAS: PLEASE NOTE THIS

PRACTS STATSNEST IN DIASCION 133153 THAY LOGER

•MORALES DID NOT SERVE IN CONGO.! HE LAS ARRESTED IN MINUS CY FEBRUARY

GO FOR ETVOLVEHENT IN BONGINGS BY CUBAN DELE? GROUP. SIATTON DUSSED

FESTIVONE UNFO ON HIM

MANT A!P IN OCTOBER 72 LAS RESISTEREO IN LOG TO SOOD. JAS NAMED AS

CIA ¡БЮТ I MANUEL DE А ММА S ПРЕСТО ССЕБОГУСЕ. АРІ! ТИТ УНЕСК

GIVEN CONSIDERABLE PUBLICITY IN CARACAS. MESCARLET-NA SENSITIVE PENE-

TRATION OF LIAISON, HAS DESCRIESD MORALES IS COSESSEVELT ANTI-CIA AND

DISPOSED TO TURN AMY UNPLEASAHT SITUATION iS EVENT CINCLUBING CUBAN.

AIRCRAFT BOMBINGÀ INTÙ CIA PLOT." MORALES HAS BEEN OF CONSINENABLE

DATE:

04IG:

UMIT:

EXT:

r. r

0.::255

---

## Page 5

4-00000

i.=*

...

• .

''?.

..?

0

0

1IЗ91729+948.S1E4EА

DIRECTOR

DISSEN BY:

1SFO) FILE

960161

007r.

INTETEST TO UIS. JOURNALISTS, AND THERE IS POSSIGILITY OF HIS MAKING

ANTI-LL: STATENENTS TO PRESS CONTACTS IN MIAMI. Y

3. ALTHOUGH IT IS ASSUMED THAT FEI WILL COVER ACTIVITIES OF

MORALES IF HE VISITS MIAMI, WILL APPRECIATE YOUR FORUARDING TO CARACAS

STATION AND MOS ANY PASSIVELY ACQUIRED INFORMATION THAT COMES TO YOUR

ATTENTION. Y

4. FILE:

201-0245123.

EE INPOET.r

REF - INFO

ON MORALES FROM WEDIET-?

DATE. 17 DEC He ac.

OR:: I.COOLEY:PM

iss. 1715

Krien

CAPESILE EFOR INFOS

CHAICAR--MR-AMES CINDRAFTE

-ini + 1+06 20504090

FEARRUNSION DU OTHCE ILE THE ISSUIRE ORTISE IS PAOMIRITES

с. "' ё s

¿эть. ).

a one not d o

F 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 008255

---

## Page 6

4-00000

860,900 06.9850-8:83

•BIANCRÓODO 19.150.0

•So. cool:

.3.7: -5.

SERREI

ve tellers, osalio, dies

REPRODUCTION BY OTMER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS SRONIDITID

ACTION A

632527

E1A653

PAGE 21

PER: 1520÷9E DEC 26

STAFF

IN 132856

CARA 3123€

S

T:522352

CITE GARAGE

• 39732

TO: DIORITY GIRECTOR.

WHINTEL GUEST RUSTONE MUSPIKE

REF:

Cideas geogslidi 126234)

1.

DECEASE MORE LES iNVARRETE SEUSAN EXILE NORKING

FOR DISION IS LEAVINÔ VENEZUELA ON ZE DEGEMBER AND RETURNING ON

7 JANUAÃY 1977O DE15 JANUARY DE MILL MOVE FROM THE ANAUGO

HILTON TO MY BEASTIENT HE IS TAYING TO FINO CLOSE TO THE

ANANCE.

2. LEOVE PEROR TED BY NADIET-A FROY MORALES ON 15 DECEMBER.

WKDIET-Z BELIEVES THAT MORALES LEADING FOR THE UAS, SINCE

MORALES GEGENTLY HAS SEEN D TELEPHONE CONTACT WITH ONE PILAR

ALSONED. FLORIDA, FLOSLDS, TEL. 305-446-5722. NO TRACES ON

PILIP.

Tur nam

3. STATIEN HAS SASSED PERTILENT INFO ABOVE TO LOCKET

LNERGO DEA MO ESTEO 17 ELSO GE GiVENT LiERGO

HOS.

• e: 289:255923.

E2 1195E7.

D: N231

CAn Du I

1c3 tai

SECRET

RECORD COPY

101-0785493

15° frai

---

## Page 7

• 46 3005 °

Ar 1/11

IID

01388000-

CRS

SECRET

ADAMANIT MOTIODED

COEY

+89616409200988

FILE, VR, BETA, EPS/EC 2, JP/DUS. LUDO PES/UNT SO

CI 4, CA 4, SIA, SIA/IC, (PS/NAR 2.

456735

EJALTO

PAGE' 01

TO R0 1416417

DEC 76

CRE T 141012Z DEC 26 INTEL

CITE CARACAS 31700

TDFIRDB: 315/12548-76

HVC-7556

AGRACY MESSAGE

.IN

129362.

CARA

31700

INTEL

SUPD AT Al

FILED:

ERWAHOO FOR UPGRADING OF RELIABILITY STATEMENT.

(NOTES STRONGLY RECOMMEND WKDIET-J'S RELIABILITY

•STATEMENT BE UPGRADED. W-3 HAS PROVIDED NUMEROUS

REPORTS MANY OF WHICH HAVE BEEN SUBSTANTIATED BY

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS AND/OR REPORTING BY OTHER SOURCES.I

SOURCES WKDIETINKDIET-3 DIRECTLY, SOURCE FIELD

COMMENT PARA 3 WKNEED/ WKNOBLE-1 FROM WKSCARLET -9.

SOURCE FIELD COMMENT PARA 4 WI IDETAWKDIET-2.

OD OBJECTIVE: L.1. NO INDEX. FILE: 15-120-28.

CL. BY @35133.

14/ 1612 ₴

XXXXX

LIFTER SENT.

E

---

## Page 8

Intelligence Information Cable

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SUNG GO TACE

SUURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/MR ASSiME DIAS CINNACE SWS NSA PERAS MSCiS SNO NIO CAS

• ROUTINE

IN 2E7362

PAGE I OF 3 PAGES

ПОТУБ

DIRECTORATR OR

OPIRATIONS

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SURJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

CITE TOFIR DB 345/12548-76

DIST 24 DECEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRE TO-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATICNALS-

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTÄNTS

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA/CUBA

DO 1:

EARLY-DECEMBER 1976

SUBJECT: CUBAN EXILE DENUNCIATION OF THREE VENEZUELAN SECURITY.

OFFICIALS

ACO:

SOURCE :

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 610 DECEMBER 1O76, FIELD NO, HVC-7558

A VENEZUELAN WITH CLOSE CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY

OFFICIALS. HE IS A FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

10 IN EARLY. DECEMBER 197E HUMBERTO GIF FUN 1, EX-DEPUTY

DIRECTOR OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND

PRVENTION (DISIP), SAID THAT CUBAN ÉXILE GROUPS BASED

IN THE UNITED

STATES HAVE SUBMITTED INFORMATION TO OCTAVIO LE PAGE, VENEZUELAN

MINISTER OF INTERIOR, CLAIMING THAT HIGH-LEVEL VENEZUELAN SECURITY

OFFICIALS ARE UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE AGENTS, THESE OFFICIALS

ARE ORLANDO GAR CIA, INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ADVISER TO

PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ AND DE FACTO CHIEF OF OPERATIONS

OF DISIPI RAFAEL RIVAS

VASQUEZ, THE CURRENT DEPUTY DIRECTOR

OF DISIPI AND RICARDO MORAL ES NAVARRETE, UNTIL RECENTLY

SE CRET

---

## Page 9

10 3007 ONSOLBIRERYCUS

IN 129562

TOAR DB 315/12548-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION: SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(81 0381116081016)

CHIEF OF DISIP'S FOREIGN ESPIONAGE

DIVISION. ALLL THREE OF THESE

MEN WERE ORIGINALLY CUBAN CITIZENS. (SOURCE COMMENT: GIFFUNI

DID NOT REVEAL THE EXACT NATURE OF THE ALLEGATIONS. AGAINST THE MEN.)

2, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BELIEVES THAT THE CUBAN EXILES

ARE ATTEMPTING TO SMEAR THE THREE MEN, BECAUSE OF THEIR PART IN

ARRESTING CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BO SCH AND LUIS.

POS A D A WHO HAVE BEEN IMPLICATED IN THE CUBANA CRASHO.

NONETHELESS, ACCORDING TO GIFFUNI, LEPAGE HAS APPOINTED A SPECIAL

COMMISSION HEADED BY GIFTUNI TO INVESTIGATE THE CHARGES MADE

AGAINST THE OFFICIALS: GIFFUNI ALSO SAID THAT HE IS EXPLORING

THE POSSIBILITY OF DISCREETLY INFORMAING NORBERTO HERNANDEZ

CURBELO, CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO VENEZUELA, OF THE CUBAN EXILE CHARGES

AGAINST THE MEN AND HIS INVESTIGATION OF THE CASÉ, PFIELD COMMENT:

A CHANNEL BETWEEN GIFFUN! ANDHERNANDEZ VAS INITIATED WHEN GIFFUNI

WAS DISIP DEPUTY CHIEF.

SEE HVC-7388, TDFIRD8-315184976-760 OF MIDMAY,

FROM THE SAME SOVACE WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS BEEN

SUBSEQUENTLY

UPGRADED. GIFFUNI HAS REASON TO HARBOR RESENTMENT

SINCE ME AND RIVAS WERE BITTER RIVALS ¡ASIDE DISIP AND SINCE GARCIA AND

RIVAS REPLACED HIM AT DISIP.

MORALES, IN TURN. IS CLOSELY

ASSOCIATED WITH GARCIA.)

---

## Page 10

4-00000

hose

3007 ORSOLLIHIONYIOUS

.

iN 124be.

TOFIR D8 315112548-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 3. PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED'.AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

3:

FIELD COMMENTE

-A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY

REPORTED THAT CUBAN EXILES BASED IN THE UNITED STATES HAVE

DENOUNCED THE THREE VENEZUELAN-SECURITY OFF IGIALS TO LEPAGE.

THIS SOURCE ADDED THAT THERE 15 SOME SOECULATION THAT THE DENUNCIA-

TION HAD ACTUALLY BEEN MADE BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT'S GENERAL.

DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCES. 8.

4. " IN COMMENTING ON MORALES, GIFFUNI SAID THAT MORALES HAD

NOT LEFT VENEZUELA AS GENERALLY BELIEVED, BUT FATHER WAS WORKING

FOR DISIP IN THE INTERIOR UNDER A FALSE NAME. AFIELD COMMENT:.

MORALES REPORTEDLY WAS ORDERED OUT OF VENEZUELA WHEN DISCLOSURES

CONCERNING HIS ACTIVITIES BECAME EMBARRASSING TO THE VENEZUELAN

GOVERNMENT. A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY INDEPENDENTLY

REPORTED THAT HE SPOKE WITH MORALES IN CARACAS IN EARLY- DECEMBER

"AND THAT MORALES ASKED

HIM TO KEEP HIS PRESENCE IN CARACAS

•CONFIDENTIAL. S

FIELD DISSEMS EMBASSY, DEA, FBI AT CARACAS.

REFORT GLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FORÉIGN NATIONAL S-

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS, ELASSIFIED

BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, XGDS-2.

SECRET

---

## Page 11

F394 S000

991 8093 P-78

CORNBRE DIRBENAr.

•RABOY UNIT NOTINIER

ASMARCE COOM BOURO BLOTTO C/1.8

ACTION UNIT

RF

FILE

CHAS

ACTION a.

1448463

714656

acci 32:1

•S:1950

dEEr6. D00 3

DDUOI

ON DY OTHER THAN

SUING OFFIER'IS

STAS PRECEDENCE

PAGE 81 - 81

TOR: 1C1?20Z DEC 76

IN 126234

CARA: 38679

SECRET 1019257 DEC 76 STAFF

CITE- CARACAS 31679

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO LONDON:

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE MHSPIKE

REFI CARACAS 31488 GN (9 7618)

1, WADIET-Z (D-28 REPORTED ON 18 DECEMBER THAT RICARDO

MORALES NAVARRETE (281-8285923> 15 BACK IN VENEZUELA.

D-2, WHO KNOWS MORALES PRSONALLY, SAN AND TALKKED TO HIM

AROUND 2 DECEMBER AT THE ANAUCO HILTON HOTEL WHRE WKTANGO I

MAINTAINS QUARTERS. MORALES ASKED DIZ NOT TO SAY ANYTHING. RE....

HIS PRESENCE HERE.

2, ABOVE INFO WILL BE INCLUDED IN INTEL THAT FOLLOWS?.

3. FILE: 281-0285923. EZ. IMPDET.

jESS

PEARL WTIE

17,313

Z67a/к

261-2859231

SECRET

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 12

4-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

was ord

0

1L:

coi

OMF

nascorone

SERGER

STAFF

conó: LA8

INFO

262282

ne relen

DIRECTOR -

0060848800т808036 сатта

149498

0 000.

0188848r.4>

PER

--

TO: CARACAS. M.

UNINTEL KMSTONE Y

REFSE: A. CARACAS 33525 lIN 10907381

B. CARACAS JIS26 (IN 1090751

• D. REGARDING PARA 3 REF 8, ONE OF TEO CUBANS IS ANTONIO IGNACIO

BUSTILLO PEREZ (202-07566562, LISTED IN CARACAS BOSEE DATEDY

4 AUGUST 1976. HE HAS ALSO LISTED ON PAGE 19 OF "TRIBUNA PUPULAR"

IN PARTIAL REPRODUCTION OF 25 JUNE 1976 "GACETA OFICIAL. " SUMMARY

TRACES ON BUSTILLO VERE FORWARDED IN HYCA-LOGJ6 DATED 3O AUGUST 19%%.

HE CANNOT IDENTIFY "ALVINS-" Y

2. FIEL: 203-0285923 AND 75-5-0. EZ IMPDET. N

Me

REF A: HVC 7548, WHICH CONCERNED POTENTIAL EMBARRASSMENT TO GOV

ON STATUS OF RICARDO MORALES SPAVARRETE EXPEN

REF B: OPS CABLE TO REF A, EXPLAINS

CIRCUMSTANCES HOW

TAINED HIS INFORMATION.

195207

10. 1d

895-5-0

DATE: 24 NOV 2976

ORK. GRADY VICKERS:PM

UNIT: LA/PNCIU/

FAILAD

00, 1 18-m anacon

Miamit

-

-REGGRO COFY :

PITROGUCTON BY OTHER THAT THETSSUINE CEFICE IS PROM:DITEO

SECRET

201-485463

167.00%'

Dendal

AC/LAAPNG

потюяютья

E 2

CL BY:

IMPDET

007255

---

## Page 13

ПОЧА/СТІ?

SEGRET

onlumer norreled

Pro er lesentone

LA- 11

•ETiONT

CA-4, ADDO/P

1g: 1: 006601

AGLACY MESSAGE

403938

PAGE 21

TORIZSZOAZE NOY. 76

IN 109073

CARA

31525

TDFIRD8 315111772-76

HVC- 7548

SEGRE

1 231937Z NOV 16 INTEL

CITE CARACAS 31525

108 DIRECTOR.

WHINTEL INTEL KMSTONE

SUPDATA!

SOURCED NP/WKDIET-3 FRUM IDEN SOY OPS @ABLES NOT EAR

LIAISON.

OD OBJECTIVES K.1.N. FILE:.

750509, 201°

8285 923.

NO INDEX. CL BY 035133.

FILEDI

. 2518372

XX XXX

2 3 Nov

200

A tr"..

CROSS

F12: G:3X 507

101-285823

SE

R

E

---

## Page 14

849

Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

@ ROUTINE

1N109073

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE, SOURCES AND METHORS INYLITA

STATE/INA SCS/MC (DIA) CIA/MUCE SUS NSA IRPAS NSCIS SOO MIO CAS

FAGE I OF 3 PAGES

DIRIGTORATI 01

OPIRATIONE

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING. AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUAYED INTELUGENCE

SECRET

CITE- TDFIR D8-315/11772-76

DIST 23 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET MARNING NOTSCE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENGE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO POREIGN. NATIONALS -

NOT. RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORA CONSÚLTANTS--D IS SEMINO.

AT 1ON AND EXTRACTION. OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA

DO Y

: MID NOVEMBEE 1976

SUBJECTE

ADDITIONAL FOTENTIAL EMBARRASSMENT. FOR PHE HENEZUELAN

GOVEANMENT IN CONNECTION MITH THE STATUS OF RICARDO

MORALES NAVARRETE

ACO

: VENEZUELA, CARACAS SI9 NOVEMBER 1976) FIELO NO. HVC-7548

SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN WITH CLOSE CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY

OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

•1. IFIELD COMMENTE INQUIRIES INTO THE STATUS OF RICARDO

MORALES NAVARRETE, A CUBAN-BOR, NATURALIFED VENEZUELAN CITIZEN.

ARÉ GEING ACTIVELY PURSUED BY BOTH THE LOCAL AND POREIGN PRESS.

THE MEANS BY WHICH MORALES, WHO ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA

IN MARCH 1874,

WAS ABLE TO SECURE VENEZUELAN CITIZENSHIP IN RECORO TIME ARE CUR-

RENTLY BEING CARRIED OUT BY THE LOCAL DRESS AND THE VENEZUELAN GOVERN-

MENT HAS ANVOUICED ITS INTENTION TO.

• INVESTIGATE

PHE MATTER. FOR AN

EARLIER REPORT ON MORALES AND HIS INVOLVEMENT WITH CUBAN EXILES

AND"

SECRET

---

## Page 15

3007 BOND 4S

IN 409073

TOFIR 08-335113772-74

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTEILICENCE: SOURCES ANE METHODS INVOLVEL

PAGE Z OF 3 PADES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEAUNATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THE INVESTIGATION OF THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 CUBANA

AIRLINER CRASH

SEE HVC-7537, TDFIRDB-315/33236-76, OF EARLY NOVEMBER, FROM THIS AND

ANOTHER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY, A USUALLY RELIABLE

SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY HEPORTED THAT MORALES LEFT VENEZUELA FOR EUROPE

ON 10 NOVEMBER.,

2, RAMON VELAS QUEZ, CHIEF OF THE IMMIGRATION AND

IDENTIFICATION DIVISION OF THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR, HAS IN HIS

POSSESSION DOCUMENTS ELEABLY INDICATING THAT VENEZUELAN CITIZENSHIP

HAS GRANTED MORALES AT THE DIRECT ORDER OF PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES

PEREZA FURINERMORE, VELASQUEZ INTENDS TO USE THESE DOCUMENTS.

TO HIS ONN ADVANTAGE.

- 3. THE CUVERING DOCUMENTS TO MORALES' PETITION FOR CITIZENSHIP

CONTAINS A SHURT, HANDÜRITTEN NOTE BY PRESIDENT PEREZ ORDERING THE

IAMIGRATION AND IDENTIFICATION DIVISION TO GRANT MORALES VEEZUELAN

CITIZENSHIP. THE ACTUAL BABER GRANTING CITIZENSHUP BEARS THE

PRESIDENT'S INITIALS AND IS SIGNED BY THE PRESIDENT'S PRIVAT:

SECRETARY NELLIE ARE DÁS. AFIELD COMMENT: ONE PAGE D- MORALES'

PETITION FUR CITIZENSHIP WAS REPRINTED

IN

THE 19 NOVEMBER ISSUE

OF THE MAGAZINE "ELITE. "I

.4. IN INVESTIGATING THE MASALES CITIZENSHIO, CASE, OCTAVIO

secret

---

## Page 16

•1050.3007.0810180муUs

in 309073

TOFIRD 8-335111772-76

N'ARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELIIGENCE SOURCES AND METIODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF3 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBECT TO

CONTROIS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

LEP AGE: MINISTER OF INTERIOR, ORDERED VELASCUEZ TO INVESTIGATE

MCFALES! IMMIGRATION FILER. VELASQUEZ SENT LEPAGE COPIES OF THE

MORALÉS DOCUMENTS AND KEPT THE ORIGINALS. IN ADDITION, VELASQUEZ

. MADE EXTRA COPIES OF THE DOCUMENTS WHICH HE IS ALSO MAINTAINING.

IN THE EVENT THAT HE IS FORCED TO TURN OVER THE ORIGINALS. VELASQUEZ.

WHO HAS HAD CUNTINUING DIFFICULTIES WITH LEPAGE AND THE DEMOCRATIC

ACTION PARTY, INTENDS TO USE THESE DOCUMENTS TO MAINTAIN HIS POSITION

AS HEAD OF THE IMMIGRATION AND IDENTIFICATION DIVISION.

5. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACIS..

REPORT CLASSS ECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO POREIGN NATIONALS--

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS--D IS SEMIN-

ATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTFOLLED 3Y ORIGINATORS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFiCER.

KGDS -2 .

R

E

1-73

---

## Page 17

SECRET

_ CO COOLMENT EXTRACI

THE FOLLCHING

INFCRNATICA CERCEFRINE THE SEEJECT CE THIS ¿OÏ

COSSIED

HAS

SEEN EXTRACTEC FOC

AACITTER CFFICIAL.DC FILE.

FERSIAS PERFOENING MADE TRACES ARF CACTICAFO TAST

THE ICCI-

DENT

FACM WEIAM THIS EXTIACT WAS FRIDAFEC CCATATAS ADDITIGNAL

TAECERATICA DERTAININE IC THE SLEJECT AND SHCULE CE BEGUESTEC

FFCM IFPFILES.

MCGALES,

SCARCE NOVARETTE

201-0255923

073-008-04610}

CAFE - :1409

11 ACV 7€

FAS LEFT

VENE, POSSIBLY FOR LEACCA:

CẠTS 3C

CEC 76

CS4E15e4

SECR

201-285923

EE IMEDGES EY 65457S

---

## Page 18

DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING

INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUAJECT OF TYIS 201

DOSSIER HAS

BEEN FXTRACTEO FROM AUNTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS

PERFURMING NAME TRASES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-

MENT

FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT

WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADJITIONAL

INFORATIIN PERTAINING TO TIE SUBJECT AND SHOULO BE REQUESTEU

•FROM IPIFILES.

MORALES NAVARETTE, RICARDO

201-0285923

SEX M

CIT VENE

075-005-009

CAR4-31373

08 NOV 76

НУС-07537

RES VENE. CURAN-BORN. DESPITE VENE GOVM DENIALS

SUBJ IS

HIGH-JFFICIAL

OF TYE DIRECTORATE FOR

THE SERVICES OF

INTELLIGENCE

AND PREVENTION

/DISAP/, AND CURRENTLY ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN IN-

VESTIGATION OF 6 OCT BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER

SUSPECTS

IN WHICH SUBJ HAS YAD PREVIOUS CON-

TACT.

DATE iS NOV 76

09450984

2e1-285923

SE

C. R E

E2 IMPDET CL

BY 054979

---

## Page 19

• PISTOLEROS Y TERRORISTAS

HAN SIDO NACIONALIZADOS

Junto con Ricardo Mosales Navarreie, nilo funcionario en la Ofi-

cina de Fronteras (inada monos!) se nacionalizo s trabaja Antonio

Ignacio Bustillo Pérea, conocido pistolero traido de Miami por el

gang morcenario de Orlando Garcia, "ministro consejero",

', segun

el pasaporte con el que hace furuentes viajes al Caribe, Mexico y

Estados Unidos con pasajes so riátions pliciales

Como ja se hs informado, Ricardo

del diario "The Miami News", Taylor

Morales

Navarrete.

asistente

de Or

Branch, de la serista "Esquire

y john

lando Garcia en la Oficina de Franie

Rosbchil, deruellos a los Estados Uni-

r.is de nucsiro pais en

Caracas led. T-

dos por un incidente en Maiquelia, afis:

cio del "Bänco de!' Caribe": Dr. Paúl à

maron que Morales Navarrere es agèn

Salvador de León, piso. 11), fue nacio-

le de la C1.4 y segundo oficial al rival

malizado venezolano el 25 de julio de

do de la inteligencia venezólano.

este año. Morales

Navarrele llegó a

Venezucla como prólugo de la justicia

Fucron inúlles las aclaralorias del

norteamericana

ligual que Orlindo

/MRI y'olros despachos sobre estas acú.

Bösch) desde Miami, serún lo anuncia- saciones, puesio que Morales Navarre-

ron enlonces diarios

de los Estados

le continua trabajando en la Oficina

Unidos.

de Fronteras, con la salvedad de que

desde la denuncia pública de su caso

Con dos años de permanencia

en el

se cuida aceroarse al edificio del "Ban.

pais ya es "ciudadano renerolano".

co del Caribe"

• pero sabemos que está

operando desde oira parte.

Lo curioso es que en la misma Cace.

la Oficial de la República de Venezue-

la donde se concede la nacionalidad a

Morales Navarrere, culano contrarre

volucionario especializado en la coloca-

LA OFICINA DE FRONTERAS:

PANTALLA DE NEGOCIOS

SUCIOS

sión de bombas en Miami, donde estu-

to arreslado en 1958 por esa catisa,

Un conocido personaje caraqueño la:

también se olorga idénlico

beneficio

llecido recientementé y quien trabajaba

al pistolero Antonio Ignacio Bustillo

en la Oficina de Fronteras, expresaba

Pérez, de igual origen y empleado co-

su inquiciud entre su amistades sobre

mo Morales Navarrete en la Oficina de

la prosencia de Morales Navarrete y

Fronteras.

Bustillo en ese despacho, pero no sólo

por su condición de mercenarios er.

El nombre Bustillo aparece en la Ga-

franjeros y agentes de la ClA, sino

cela

justamente encima

de Morales

lambién por el desfile diario de prosti-

Navarrete.

sutas y contrabandistas del área del

Caribe connelados con ellos en extra-

Según resolución de la Dirección N.z-

ñas aperaciones mercantiles, segun es.

cional de Identificación y Extranjeria y • le personaje.

por órdenes del minisiro de Relaciones

Interiores (Dr. Octario Lepage), de

"Rangel Abugados" era la placi que

acuerdo con la decisión

osteneaba la misteriosa Oficina de Fron-

Ranón Ignacio Velisquer B., director

feras. lace poro quitaron esa placa y

del despacho

mencionado arribo, se

pusieron olra con el membrere de "Com-

produjo este insólito hecho.

pania Arcarra".

@ AGENTES DE LA CIA

@ LOS VINIES A BARBADIS

Y CIRAS PARTES

Ricardo Anales Navarrero, en loto de 1168.

cuando fucia detenido por Peraniasta en

shanni.

el rango de 'Asistenie al Ministro Con-

siero Orlando Garcia Vásquer".

¡Asombroso! ¡Orlando Garcia ministro

consejero! ¿ Consejero de quien?

Antes del sabolaje al irión comercial

cubano en las cercanias de esa isla ca-

ribeña, Orlando Garcia y su "curruña"

viajaron a ella varias veces. & Tienen es-

los sujetos que ver con la preparación

del monstruoso acto lerrorista.

ampa-

rados con pasaportes diplomáticos y

pagados con dineros de la nación?

O ZAMURO CUIDANDO CARNS

Los infiltrados de la Cl. en los or-

ganismos de seguridad venezolanos lo-

graron una piqueña victoria al decidir-

se que el funcionario enviado a Barba-

dos en busca de los recaudos del avión

saboleado per terroristas financiados

No somos nosotros quienes hacemos

In acusación de

que importanles orge-

nismos de soporidad de l'enerucle es.

esn infiltrados por la

Agonita Contral

de. Ineeligencia de los Esladas l'nidos.

entre ellos la DISIP y la Olicina de

lironieras.

una mirinquia ruta allima

cura (on-149 80109975.

Milde inclin.

is Informaciua

El mencionado personaje venezolano

tallerds anha relerirse lamhicie a mis-

ceriosos o femurnera diajes de Alorales

Nanarerio durente 1975 y lo que da

19:6. con pasassarte diplomático y

ridliera a Cario Reis,

Asirios. Maisni

y Tulre ISEll'). Coleadatos entonces

mamente concelado a Orlando Garcia

y su gang quintacolumna.

¿Fuc. a buscar o a destruir pricbasi

la prescricia del gano cubano en Le

franjeria podria ser lo que coplique

una serie de hechos irteqularry en re-

lación con nacionalizaciones permales.

ras e ilegales a individuas indercablis

pero arandalados

Cardida la el 18 do soviembre de 1976

TRIBUNA POPULAR

---

## Page 20

TA OFICIAL

ITINE DE P.9 FACINA 197

@ B3SE DE CPERACIOES

LA CURALAC.

'EPUBLICA DE VENEZUELA

1

Caracas: viernes 25 de junio de 1976

Número 31.010

110

nes Interiorra

"re de Milis.

+ мт

risular de la Citola de Idearidas de TO19-19 y por cuanio

en de la- t'anifeuario de ha cumplido con los

seque itod

es colse pre la loy. ei enlalano aliniveo pedona su piéla

epidon

lA CACO lA CICLAL DE LA RIMBLICA DE.

VI.S18011.A

marmaidad orn++01-9901 813-

Ransin lenario Villepure B

Diceitor

mas Eisieriores..

R:pul-lud de Denesuels, -=Aliniserio de Rolari nes Inieriorea.

- Pireiino da ional de Identíncarrio y larranperia. — Ca-

11d120, 29 de junin de 1936 - 165° y 118°

Hacienda

tinr

2200.

arenla lon

gratin

ПоТ,ВІЇВ ІІЛІЯ

no de Ti

paral d

Mnar.11»

Vistas las maniferra innce de o lancal de ces senesilarno,

cameladas pir les peronas que a e mensacia de nimbean

y pe cuareo en dichas manifraidiones se han cumplido ins

se-puede @ 8s900ue po8 la den. el cia.iadairo. Minisern ne'ens

au poblanion en la GACUT.A OFICIAL

DE TA RIPL-

MIA DE. VINIZUTLA:

rep.

---

diastros § apellidoe

CHilule No

Por su cerconia a l'enerulca y su

condición de estalela

de grardes ofe.

raciones comerciales y de alro ginero,

C'uraido pureçe ser un centra operalivo

del gana de la ClA infelirado en los

aruarionaos de seguridad y alles cargos

portolicos renerolanos

regidos por

pranjeras nacionalizados o roneriados

con cilos

Se dire que Orlando Garcia estuvo

recientemenle o está en Clirarae. 2Qué

hace allii 10 qué hiro? Seria intre-

sante una explicación de los frocuenles

viajes de este indisiduo violador de los

derechos humanos en el pasado y tra-

licante de prostitulas s contrabando

hoy.

Su poder païéré no hubier caido des

purés del escandalo

donde estin invo-

lucrodos alios apitridas de origen cio

liano y mercenarios a sil servicio, cen

motivo del criminal alentado contra la

nose de "Cubana de Aviación"' el 6 de

octubre pasado.

Desde hace liempo Orlando Garcia

es rey en los aparatos represives y de

seguridad, tal como lo fueren olres ex-

Pranjeros fascistas y mercenarios como

¿l.

Bico

anisinn

do 89.1

Cone-il

de fierriaarion do

reirininhint te

Jroane Maria Ganailer

de Ferninter

206.007

Juan Manuel Polo Siro de Buruaja

• 429 969

Emilir Balred Cize.ia

• і хід

Meredes Calero Marres!

821.908

Carlood

Mannel Allas:

Maria del Carmen Sierra Pia.enoia

Minder de

Г..

2°4.207

119:69

P31 A17

206r.98

lis el protector de Morales Navarre-

-"Ic, Bustillo Pérezis demás pistoleros y

terroristas que ocupan puestos eficiales

on Venezuela. Está en connivencia col

Orlando Bosch, uno de los autores ins-

relectuales de la masacre airca de Bar-

bados, donde 73 personas perdieron la

vida

¿Trasta cuindo lo seri

Catilita

rutilro

Cardenter

Durla leeren de las Caso

1021-18 Judo Bruno Carienter Nändemus

Joan derechied dfillen

r:

Г. 10:0049

г. 1.0:1-18

Т. 10997:7.

mentoy de desiraltura

¿HASTA CUANDO

tro

intercen

5119:1%

1:l1.16d.

N:$17.195

Nru

SE TOLERARA LA DESCARADA

Edurarión

Ranain lande no diliguee D.

INTERVENCICH DE LA CIA

ine ane narionalizados eu in Gunte Olicial hace dinne Meere

lican valine diine

EN VENEZUELA?

abajando en la elimina de Joonero, a cargo de Dulando Garcio, piro batioleer

aginie de la ClA intellsin

LASERTE

Sí tienen derecho los cubanos a luchar contra la tirania de Cilitio ""

DE FELIX MANTINEZ SUAREZ AL PRESIDENTE PEREZ

Es legitimá la violencia cuando se la ejerce para lograr la libertad del pueblo

Jamás tolerarcinos en nuesiro país una experiencia socio-comunia de le chilena

САУНИКА

Marast

INSOLENCIA FINANCIADA POR LA EMBAJADA YANQUI

(TITULAR DEL RERITIDO PUBLICADO EN PERIODICOS DEI. 10.11.:61

TRIBUNA POPULA

Caracas, 12 al 18 de noviembre de 1970

Inormacion 12

---

## Page 21

= Ariania

Cort eur

FBI Told of Chilean Plot to U

By Joo Crankshs

'Too selaial Berals:

i Chi an

service In pollt.

arrested

JUAN- The chilean iocret police

had himsell, been

activities.

Morales

ica witt a false passport on Teb. 16.

assoclited with the

He was charged with plottiaz to. kill

ase seoruary

attempted lo recruit.?" Central Intelligence Agency and FBI: U.S. Secrelary of State Heasy A KE

to alleged Cuban exile terrorists to.."; as an operative sad isformant alter

singer,

Andres

assasainate the nephew of Chiles lalex;

'Doeing: Cuba following

Castro's. ac

Anno Marie Brussier.:

Pascal. Allende and

deposed

a ranklog Southi

¿' Ai the, time ol Morales report to !

'No trial was

¡Allende,

Slartet President Sairador

•#•cession, lo power.) •

held "and Bosch. was

later deported. He returned to Santl

ago and 'apparently: remained there

"Muaml federal grand Jury indictment.:' until going to the Cartbbean arca to

p'organize CORU, a militant anti-Castro.:,

lice rod. FBI contacts that Chile's: se

group, witch claimed credil for. the

"cret police' (DINA) sought the assassl-racksonvules.

1,0: 3÷05

Suban airliner. bombice last month. as

in Morales

Swornies made the reports to the Fer:

ballon of both Andres Pascal Auerdo DINA had attempted to recruit both:

me, is cordian on dou are made OLd and Arenate son or it e ah

•In an exchango of intelligence with

U.S." officials

available to The sLami Hernd j*72 sassination: Bosch: was: charged in.

about cred teenage

-Morales, bimsell a Cuban exile, said =* Venezuela last week with first-degree

:: As 'EBI spokesman. In Washington:

•e DiVA plot, whick mas sever car, i murder

the sabotage of a Cuban

said Mlonday-the -bureau would: bave.

ried out; was reported to blm ty Roi:

airliner that claimed 73 lites, i-s. ti

-[no. comment: on the reported UINA:,

lando Otera who currently faces trial?"

• is Miami on 39 felony charges related i-Morales quoted Otero as sayin

iplot (FBi officials In Caracas

had po"

DINA olfered arms and funds to Cu

mmment on the case la response to

, to nine terrorist bombings bere:

(Suspicions of Cbilennisecret, police, ban exile eroups;

independent inquirles- by The

Wash-

«Otero refused to do the "livor," left

ingron. Past].".:

Slavolvement in plots against politieal Chile and told the Latin American in:

"ilaferration

on alleged DINA

exiles have been widely expressed Im telligence, official on Feb. 15, then re.

ban exile.conspiracy.agairst the-sur

emigre cirules.; This- was: the first re

turned to Santiaga

He sias arrested

viving Allende family and government

"parted instance of an allegation. lo:

" two weeks later and held until he was

the: FBI by a bigh ranking intelligence

banded

States-in

members was suppressed during tbe

federal

bombing

trial 'of" Otero-in~

suggesting

**-Alay.

Jacksonville in September, 1976.

- =

---

## Page 22

THE WASHINGTON POST Tray your

se Cubans to Kill Allende Kin

> The Overo taried lo resury about

turned ladictmeats against Otero

his- activities In

Chile.! goverament

the bombings, Otero flew to Caracas

prosecutors objected.that.the lüfortn•

he was told the serted police sup

tion was immaterial la, tho

bombing

i •¿ Otero had $50 in his pocket uben be

•ported the Cuban exiles' cause and

charges in in 2271.

landed in: Venezuela, according to in 2a

Tire sid,"' fermation la FBI reports, He: stayed

would provide funds for, thems in re

Otero was lound Innocent of federal

charges that he placed bombs at Mi

with Morales, a former Cuban politt; "The DINA Spokesmen

'Oteni/told

amt lateraational Arport In October.

cal police agent and anti-Castro exile; Ethe intelligence agent, wanted hima to

und atylie Miamt FBI ollica Soriali cret police. 2

kill Andres Pascal Alteride and Man

Security Office, State Unemployment,

-iLatormation

contained"

Ortice, jwo post ottices, a bank, thes

•is the re

Mare one a Costa Rice

•before

Dada State Attorneys. Outlce and. the

reena autories mored had Allende is the nephew or Salvador

Mämi Police Department Headquar

if, Yeneruelan aulborities moved to ar

slende, who died when right wing.el

ters on Des: 34,

hiltons

198435

ements overthrew his: Afarxist govern

ment in September, 1973 The younzet

to-begin bere

Allende is z-member al

MpRea. ChF

dered postpoded.

lean revolutionary sroup that apposit

ning of: the jea

Miam

the junta

J3 Ha

Elotera quoted DINA

"spokesmer:

Otero remained in

boinb: Morale:

Florida until late's

saying Bosch would be'd back-up

Becamber,

15%

the FBI.

-te way-loid by.

falled in the mission:

an FBI informantethat, the -EBtwas"

In early, Fe

?,On Fed, 15, 'Otero relayed DINA's

•Santiago, acco

prepring to have him indicted on the:"* reports in the

quest to the intelligence agent.and

bombiaz charges.

urbed. to

Santiago

where he

"y::

Otero- then Mentitos

¡Otero:told Morales

the. Dominican :

mained until Marra 8,

when.ne disa

-lieved wouid-help

Republie, phera he

arrested, thea.

paroledito the custody of Admirat Ce against Castro Tate

ter arriving': liz

¿Chiean authorities Jater said they

as to, a te are in a rani inter and sate

had taken him Into custody on-April

Castro, jan Otero friend.

*! and charged, Otero-with 'being an:

himself and s

When.a: Oliamt, federat, grand

indesirable alien. Ther ordered him

Aunited

eported following hearing 3lay 2e

---

## Page 23

SECRET

Made Croces Pro

REGREEN 12

0/ S

T 37.3661

C/EAR 3

005, 064, s/85

PAGE 01

TOR: 112354Z NOV 76

SECRET 112EZRE NOV 76 STAFF

hi door

CITE CARACAS 31409 ( CARROLL ACTING)

EYES ONLY

TO :

PRIORITY DIRECTUR. LONDON.

WHINTEL RYSAT KMSTONE MHSPIKE PLMHBLANKET

REFS: A, CARAÇAS 31403 SNOT SENTANEEDED LONDON, (IN 091588)

.B. CARACAS 31373 SNOT SENT/NEEDED LONDON, (IN: 093663)

C. DIRECTOR 939719 SNOT SENT/NEEDED LONDONO

D. DIRECTOR 932221 SNOT SENTANEEDED LONDOND

1. COURSE OF REF A 18 NOVEMBER 7O MEETING WITH WKSCARLET-9,

AGENT REVEALED THAT RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE: 8201-2859231

HAD LEFT VENEZUELA AND WAS SEEN OFF BY WKTANGO-1, WKSCARLET=9

DID ACT KNGH MCRALES DESTINATION BUT UNDERSTOOD FROM WKTANGO-1

•1

7N 697618

CARA 3142500%

danger

2. HKSCARLET -9 SAID HE HAD NO EXPLAVATION FOR MORALES

ANIMOSITY TOWARE EKHERALD OTHER THAN HE THOUGHT MORALES

BELISED HE HAD SOMEHOW BEEN MALIGNEO BY SKHERALD WHICH

MAD RUINES HIS ESTENTIAL FOR BECOMING SUGCESSEUL AND WEALTHY

IN VENEZUELA dUE THAT MORALES WAS SUFFERING SOME KIND OF

EMOTIONAL SH IS IS.

MORALES TOLD NASCARLET-D AND WKTAAGO-1

TA tRUEL DE CRUIS EXPOSE MAS A ERNERGLE EPERATION DIRECTED

SECRET

---

## Page 24

ritar 10u: 16-7...u

SECRET

HOM DONE NA100119

STAFF RACEDENCE

10003, 060.

e/es

37 38 81

E1 A922

PAGE 01

TOR: 1129542 NOV 76

IN 097618

SECRET IIZAZRZ NOV TE STAFF

CITE CARACAS 314R9 SCARFOLL ACTINGS

CARA

31 40 9

MIRALESTI

Vana

EYES _ONLY,

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTUR, LONDON.

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE MHSPIKE FLMHBLANKET

REFS: A. CARACAS 31403 SNOT SENTINEEDED LONDON, (IN 0AMS 88)

E, CARACAS 31373 SNOT SENT/NEEDED LONDONI (IN 093663)

C. DIRECTOR 939719 & NOT SENT/NEEDED LONDOND

D. DIRECTOR 932221 SNOT SENT/NEEDED LONDOND

1• COURSE CE REF A L& NOVEMBER 76 MEETING WITH WKSCARLET 9,

AGENT REVEALED THAT RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE (281-285923)

HAD LEFT VENEZUELA AND WAS SEEN OFF BY WKTANGO-1', WKSCARLET -9

• DID ACT ANON MURALES DESTINATION BUT UNDERSTOOD FROM WKTANGO-1.

IT WAS EUROPE, PROBABLY LONDON.

2. WISCARLET-9 SAID HE HAD NO EXPLANATION FOR MORALES

ANIMOSITY TOMARO EKHERALD OTHER THAN HE THOUGHT MORALES

RELIVED HE DAD SOMEMON BEEN MALIGNED BY BANERALD WHICH

NAD RUINES HiS EUTENTIAL FOR BECOMING SUCCESSFUL AND WEALTHY

IN VENEZUELA DIS THAT MORALES WAS SUFFERING SOME KIND OF.

EMOTIONA- CHISIS, MORALES TOLE ANSCARLETOD AND WKTANGO-1

THAT MANUEL DE ARMAS ÖXPOSE MAS A ENHERALD CPERATION DIRECTED

SECRET

---

## Page 25

14-00000

CABLE SEY

+47811898 4090565.

1590990.

1199079 819611

FILF

10IAL COPIES

SECRE

VR

T 373881

ET AN OZ

PAGE B•J-WJ

TOR: 1120547 NOV 76

FOR HIS FORCED. DEPARTURE FROM VENEZUELA ON SKHERALD.

4.

201-2859230

E2• IMPDET•

OTHEA THAN

STAFF

IN

09 76 18

CARA

31409

---

## Page 26

THANSMITT?

TOFIR INFOMATIN MENORT

UNIT

HAERiET SFILER

LAZPNCZYZK

EXT.

9154

DATE

- 9 NOYESBER

1976

CONP.

OPS/INT.S. 110, PS/EG 2,

LAI 12

ROUTINO

C1 4, SS 4,

OSG,

SECRET

FR 4,

# 1040P

DDO 3

DATE DISTRIBUTED

9 NOVEMBER 1976

DISSEMINATION

C/LA

DC/LA.

LA/OPS

LA/RR

LALREG

LA/ PNC/V

LALCOG

3

-*.

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE X IN APPROPRIATE SPACE

TO IID:

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TO:

list alestreal addresse

ZRWAHOO LIFTER CABLE SENT

EXCLUSIVE FOR

(tise oddressons)

RELAY CABLE PREPARED

able secretoriol

= ith anita copy le

NOT FOR LIAISON

REPORT CLASSIFIED BY: 062063

/ TDFIR DB-315/11216-76

PRECEDENCE:

X I ROUTINE

BASED ON 1110. API, MAOS)

HVC-7537

CARACAS 31373(IN 093663)

• PP 3-1: WKMAYOR

(W'KSCARLET-17)

OBJ: KIA

LIAISON:

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

CASSIFICATO/ PNC/R

SECRET

TOMS: 1K-2 USE PeevioUS rOIIoNs

CL BY 007622 RELEASING OFFICER

E 2 IMPDET

C/ LA/RR

it bring

COPY NO.

118-89-08-077

---

## Page 27

RailroNs

. • OTO

*-

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

IN

093663

MANNING NOTICE

PAGE 1 OF 5 PAGES

SENSILSE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND MELISS 1S00.NNTS

STAIL/INA ICSIMO COIA) CRAIMACE SWS NSA TREAS NSCIS iDO MIO CAS

FBI

DIRICTORAYE OI

OPFRATIONS

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TOFIR DB-315/11216-76

DIST 9 NOVEMBER

: 1976

REPORT CLASSS E CRE T-AWARNING. NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSE ANS--DISSEMINATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFURMATION CONTROLLEO BY ORIGINATOY

COUNTRY:

VENEZUELA

DO!

: EARLY NOVEMBER 1976

SUBJECT: POTENTIAL IMSARRASSMENT FOR THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

DUE TO POSSIBLE EXPOSURE OF PHODE THAI GICAIDO

MORALES

NAVARETTE IS A VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIAL

ACO

= VENEZUELA, CARACAS 6104 NOVENBER 19761 FIELS NO. HN6-7532

SOURiE: SEE BELOW.

SUMMARY: DESPITE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENI DENIALS, CUBAN-SORN

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE IS A HIGH OFFICIAL OF THE

DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF IUTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIPI.

FURTHERMORE, HE IS CURRENTLY ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN THE INVESTIGLTION

OF THE 6 OCTOBER BOMGING OF A CUBANA AIRLINES AND HE HAS HAD PREVIOUS

CONTACTS WITH SOME OP THE SUSPECTS IN THE BOMBING, ¡ VELEZUELAN NENSPAN

HAS A COPY OF THE ORIGINAL GOVEANMENT ANIOUACEMEAT OF MORALES'

'DISIP ASSIGIMENT, WHICH HE IS ITTEMPTINO DO NAVE HERRINTES IN THE

LOCAL PRESS, •VÉNEZUELAN OFFICIALS DELIEVE PUBLIC CISCLOSURE OF

ISEGRET

---

## Page 28

1954 3007

IN 093663

TDiIR DB-315/11216-76

MARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE Z OF 5 PAGES

SECRET.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(Clara|Mcartone)

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT WOULD PROVE EMBARRASSING TO TLE GOVERNMENT, AND.

IN AN EFFORT TO COUNTER THIS POTENTIAL DIFFICULTY, HAVE ISSUES A

BACK-DATED CIRCULAR OSTENSIBLY RELIEVING MORALES DE MIS DIS1P

ASSIGNMENT. END SUMMARY,

1. PFIELD COMMENT: THERE HAS BEEN CONSIDERASLE PRESS COVERAGE

CONCERNING RICARDO MORAL ES NAVARETTE, A CUZAN-BORN.

"NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZEN, MORALES' STATUS WITH THE VENEZUELAN

GOVERNMENT CAME. INTO QUESTION WHEN THE FOREIGN PRESS REPORTED THAT

MORALES IS A HIGH-LEVEL VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICEL AS WELL AS.

BEING CONNECTED WITH VARIOUS AGENCIESIDE THE UNT PED STATES GOVERN-

MENTIUSGI, VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS HAVE ALTERNATELY CENTED

AND ADMITTED MORALES' ASSOCIATION MITH VENEZUELAN SECURITY

ORGANIZATIONS, FOR THIS INFORMATION SEE EMBASSY CARACAS TELEGRAM

12667 OF 26 OCTOBER 19760}

• 2. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS: 5 AND S: A VENEZUELAY SOVERAMÖNT

EMPLOYEE WHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICIS REPORTS ON

VARIOUS SUBJECTS, HIS RELIASILITY MAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHES.

THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE CiSCUSSED WITH ANY SUREIGN

OFFICIALS.

INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN

GOVERNMENT.

3.

DESPITE DENIALS BY SOME OFFICIALS OF THE VEREZUELAN GOVERA-

SECRET

---

## Page 29

0.350 3607

COOIPTI PREVIOUT

10111093

iN 093663

ID:RDE-315/11216-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

URTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT I

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPOR

(ciassIMcAsion)

_...._.

--—-

*=41

MENT. RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE IS CHIEF OF THE FOREIGN ESPOINAGE

DIVISION OF THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIPS, THIS SECTION IS KNOWN AS

DIVISION S4O FURTHERMORE, MORALES IS HEADING THE VENEZUELAN

INVESTIGATION OF THE Ó OCTOBER 1975 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER.

IN THIS CAPACITY; MORALES RECEIVES AND MAINTAINS ALL INFORMATION

ON THE CUBANd CASE, INCLUDING INFORMATION WHICH CONNECTS HIM.

MORALES, WITH THE CUBAN EXILE MOVEMENT ÄND INDIVICUALS IMPLICATED

IN THE CUBANA CASE, PFIELD COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON

MORALES' CONNECTIONS WITH CURAN EXILE LAADER ORLANDO

BOSCH.

WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN CARACAS IN CONGECTION WITH

THE CUBANA AFFAIR, SEE HVC-7514, TDFIRDS-315/122656-760 OF 15

OCTOBER. FROM A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE. I

6. AS HEAD OF THE INVESTIGATING TEAM, MORALES- ISSUES PRESS

RELEASES ON THE CASE UNDER THE ALIAS "COMMISSIUNES LiMÉNEZ." iN

ORDER TO AVOID DIRECT CONTACT WITH NEWSMEN, MORALES IS NOT

UTILIZING HIS USUAL ISIP OFFICES, BUT RATTER MAINTAINS SEPARATE

FACILITIES.

S.. SOURCE OF

PARAGRAPHS 6-9:

A VENEZUELAN DIEN CLOSE

CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS GELIADILITY

SECRET

---

## Page 30

14-00000

+550 3207 0980181.391008

IN 093663

TOAR DB-315/11216-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

- FURTHER DISSEMNATION AND USE OF THIS iNFORMATION SUBJECT. TO

CONTRÖIS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

16/697.35 MUn)

HAS NOT

GEEN ESTABLISHED,

O: DURING THE WEEN OF I NOVEMBER, DISIA DIRECTOR. RETIRED

GENERAL PAUL

GIMENEÉ GASIA SAID THAT MORALES IS STILL

HORNING AT DISIP AND 15 ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN THE CUBANA INVESTI-

GATIGH• IN AN EFFORT TO MITIGATE LAY FURIMER PUBLICITY CONCERN-

ING MORALES AND HIS CONNECTION MITA THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT,

GIMENEZ SAID ME MAS UFFICIALLY RELIEVED MORALES AS CHIEF OF

DIVISION 54, THE RECORDS ANOUASING MORALES' REMOVAL HIVE BEEN

BACK-CATED TO 2. OCTOBER.

T. GIMENEZ SAID THAT HE IS ANAGE THAT CIÃO

"CHIES EDITOR OF "BOHEMIA" MAGAZINE, HAS IN MIS FESSESSION A

DISÉP CIRDULAR ANNOUNGING THE RESSINTUENT OF MORALES AS CHIEF

OF dISIPIS DIVISION 54, MEDINA, GIMENEZ SAID, IS ATTEMPTING TO

MAVE ¡ME CIRCULAR REPRINTED IN THE VENEZUELAN FRESS. dUT THUS

FARO NAS BEEN UNAGLE TO FIND AN BUTLET WILLING TO PUBLISH IT.

8. MORALES, GIMENEZ

SAID, HAS ASPOINTED TO DISIP ON

THE FECIMMENDATION OF ORLANDO SIR CIA, A SECURITY ADVISER

TO PRESIDENT CARLOS ADORES PEDE ZA THE CIRCULAR APPOINTING

MORALES IS SIGNEO BY GIMENEZ ANE ACCORDING TO GIVENEZ, MAS APPROVED

SY OCTavIO

LEP A GE, MINISTER EE DUPERIOR, AND PRESIDENT PEREZ.

---

## Page 31

108 3007 0011849100

N 093663

TDFIK!B-315/11216-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 5 OF S PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF

THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

WHEN INFORMATION ON MORALES APPEARED IN THE LOCAL PRESS, GIMENEZ

SAID HE ORDERED THAT ALL COPIES OF THE CIRCULAR ON MORALES BE

RECOVERED, UNFORTUNATELY, MANY COPIES COULD NOT SE LOCATED.

9, IF THIS CIRCULAR IS REPRINTED IN THE LOCAL PRESSA GIMENEZ

SAID IT WOULD CREATE A HIGHLY EMBARRASSING SITUATION FOR THE

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND PARTICULARLY INTERIOR MINISTER LEPAGE.

WHO HAS DENIED THE EXISTENCE OF CUBAN EXILES IN DISIP. THIS

POTENTIAL PROBLEM-CUMES AT A PARTICULARLY BAD-TIME, GIVENEZ SAID,

SINGE LEPAGE WILL BE THE ACTING PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA BEGINNING

15 NOVEMBER WHEN PRESIDENT PEREZ SEGINS A TRIP •O THE UNITEC

NATIONS, EUROPE AND. THE SOVIET UNION.

iD, FIELD DISSEM: EMSASSY, FEI AT CARACAS.

REPORT CLASSS E OR E TO WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTÊLLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT FELEASABLE TO FOREIGÀ NAIIONALS--

NOT RELEASAQLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTAVÍS--

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION

INTORMATION CONTEOLLED 3Y

ORIGINATOR, CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.

xG35-2.

SECa

---

## Page 32

3005:13.3

61098n dr

MOTIFIRD

POTAL CHOIRS

SECRET

•OVANCE

COPY

ISSURO: SLOTTED

FILE, VR, SSUBSUBES, IP/AN, IID, OPS/INT,

LA-10

CI 4, SS 4, OSGIIC-2, OSG, FR SI SIA 2

ift.

8: 1: 06607

T 36 45 85

E1 A7 43

PAGE ES

TOR: 882250810675

TN 893663

CARA: 31373

SECRET COZISZZ NOV 76 INTEL

HV6-7537

CITE CARACAS 31373

TO: DIRECTOR..

WNINTEL INTEL KNSTONE

SUPD AT A:

SUUACE DARAS 3=41 WKMAYOÄ/ANSCARLET -17.

SOURCE

NOT FOR

PAFAS tO 9: NP./WKDIET- 3 FROM WANÜSLE -26.

LIAISON, OD OBJECTIVE: MIL.A. ¡NEX MORALES.

FILES

75-5-9. CL. BY 262203.

FILED:

88¿1522

XXXXX

¡IID COMMENT: WHEN DISSEMINATED PLEASE ADD DIO-3.

CHov

E

---

## Page 33

14-00000

301S OblIGHTONS

$719

SECRET

CA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE a NOVEMBER 1976

093663

PAGE 1 OF S PAGES

SENSTIVE INTELLICENCE SOUACISTINE METHODS INVOLVED

to lollowing ropor, pronsminiod from o ClA field station, requires roview within she Direcioroie of Operations beiore being us

any other documant or publication, or roleused ovisido lio Agonty. Pending results of this periom, a copy is providad for yo

advance information.

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO: SDO

la LARDEr Cl Br_007822

REPORT CLASS SECR

E TOGWARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENGE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NGI RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSOO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS ON CONTRACTORA CO AS UL TAN: SOO= IS SEMI NATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFURMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA/ CUba

DOI

: EARLY NOVEMBER 1976

SUBJECT:

POTENTIAL MBARRASSMENT FOR THE VENEZUELAN GGVERNYENT

..:DUE TO POSSIBLE EXPOSURE OF PROOF THAT RICARDO MORALES

NAVARETTE IS A VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIAL

ACO. ": VENEZUELA, CARACAS 81-4 NOVEMBER 1976) FIELS NO. HUC-7537

• SOURCE & SEE BELOW

SUMMARY: DESPITE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT DENIALS, CUBAT-BORN

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE IS A HIGH-OFFICIAL OF THE

DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVESTIOS (DIS:PI.

FURTHERMORE. ME iS CUARENTLY ACTIVELY INVOLVED 1O THE INVESTIGATION

OF THE O OCT.GGER BOMING

OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, THE SUSPECES IN

?

WATCH ME, MORALES HAS HAD PREVIOUS CONTACT, A VENEZUELAN SENSUAL

• HAS A COPY OF IME GRIGINAL. GOVEANMENT ANDOUNCE"ENT OF MERILES"

DI SIP

ASSIGAMENT, MICH HE 1S ATTEMOTING TO MAVE REPAINPES :N TE

LOCAL PRESS, VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS DELIEVE DUS-DO GiSCROSURE GE

SECRET

---

## Page 34

199" 3007 CASCETONI

IN 093663

TOFIR

WARVING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SUURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CÓNTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

108ass1Mcalton)

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT WOULD PROVE EMBARRASSING TO THE GOVERNMENT;

AND;

IN AN EFFOPE TO COUNTER THIS POTENTIAL DIFFICULTY, HAVE ISSUED A

BACK-DATED CIRCULAR OSTENSIBLY RELIEVING MORALES OF HiS DISIP

ASSIGNMENT• END SUMMARY.

1, FIELD COMMENT: THERE HAS BEEN CONSIDERASLE DRESS COVERAGE

CONCERNING RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE, A CUSAT-BORN.

NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZEN, MORALES' STATUS WITH THE VENEZUELAN

GOVERNMENT CAME INTO QUESTION WHEN THE FOREIGN PRESS REPORTED THAT.

MORALES IS A HIGH-LEVEL VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIAL AS WELL AS

BEING CONNECTED WITH VARIEUS AGENCIES OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERN

MENTIUSGI, VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS HAVE ALTERNATELY DENIED ATO

AND ADMITTED MORALES" ASSOCIATIEN MITH VENEZUELAN SECURITY

ORGANIZATIONS, FOR TIS INFORMATION SEE EMBASSY CARACAS TELEGRAM

12667

OF 26 OCTOGER 1976.3

2. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPNS 3 AND 4E

A VEVEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

EMPLOYEE WHOSE POSITIÓN GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICISE FEROATS ON

VARIOUS SUBUECTS, MIS. RELLASILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISMED.

THIS INFORMATIOO IS NOT TO BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY GOREIGN OFFICIALS.

INCLUDiNG iNOSE OF

THE VENEZLELAY GOVERNMENT.

3, DESPITE DENIALS'DY SOME CFFICIALS OF THE VENERUELAN GOVERNO

SECRET

---

## Page 35

10s 3007 assabilony 00g

IN 093663:

TOFIR

WARNLIC NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS. INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

MENT, RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE IS CHIEF OF THE FOREIGN ESPOINAGE

DIVISION OF INE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP).. THIS SECTION IF KNOWN AS

DIVISION SA, FURTHERMORE, MORALES IS HEADING THE VENEZUELAN

INVESTIGATIO OF THE 6 OCTOBER 197S BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER.

IN THIS CAPACITY; MORALES RECEIVES AND MAINTAINS ALL INFORMATION

ON THE CUBANA CASE, INCLUDING INFORMATION WHICH CONNECTS HIM.

MORALES, MIIN THE CUBAN EXILE MOVEMENT AND INDIVIQUALS IMPLICATED

IN THE CUBANA CASE, (FIELD COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON

MORALES' CONNECTIONS MITH CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO

WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTIGA IN CARACAS IN CONDECTION WITH

THE CUBANA AFFAIR, SÜE HVO-7514, TOF1RDS 3151122656-76. 05 15

OCTOBER, FROM A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.)

4, AS.HEAD OF THE INVESTIGATING TEAM, MORALES ISSUES PRESS

RELEASES ON THE CASE UNDER TNE ALIAS "COMMISSIOVER JIMENEZ. " IN

ORDER TO AVOID DIRECT COSTLOT WITH NEWSMEN, MORALES IS NOT

UTILIZING HIS USUAL LISIP OFFICES, BUT RATHER MAINTAiNS SEPARATE

FACILITIES.

5. SOURCE OF PARAGRAENS 6=9:

¿ VENEZUELAN MITH ENOSE

CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SÉCURITY OFFICIALS.

SECRET

---

## Page 36

105 3007 000LOO0E

IN 093663

TOFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(class Mostion)

HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED,

6 DURING THE WEEK OF 1 NOVEMBER, DISIA DIRECTOR RETIRED

GENERAL RAUL GIMENEZ GAINZA SAID THAT MORALES iS STILL

WORKING AT DISIP AND IS ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN THE CUBANA INVESTI-

GATION, IN AN EFFORT TO MITIGATE ANY FURTHER PUBLICITY CONCERN-

ING MORALES AND HIS CONNECTION WITH THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT,

GIMENEZ SAID, HE HAS UFFICIALLY RELIEVED MORALES AS CHIEF OF

DIVISION 54, THE RECORDS ANNOUNCING MORALES REMOVAL HAVE BEEN

BACK-DATED TO 1 OCTOBER.

7, GIMENEZ SAID THAT HE IS AWARE THAT CIRO MEDINA.

CHIEF EDITOR OF "SHOEMIA" MAGAZINE, HAS IN HIS POSSESSION A

DISIF CIRCULAR ANNOUNCING THE APPOINTMENT OF MORALES A CHIEF

• OF DISIPIS DIVISION 54, MEDINA, GIMENEZ SAID, IS ATTEMPTING TO

HAVE THE CIRCULAR REPRINTED IN THE VENEUZELAN PRESS, BUT THUS

FAR, HAS BEEN UNAGLE TO FIND

AN OUTLET WILLING TO PUBLISH IT.

8. MORALES, GIMENEZ SAID, WAS APPOINTES TO DISIP ON

THE RECOMMENDATION OF ORLANDÓ

G

ARE I A. A SECURITY ADVISER

TO PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PERE Z. THE CIRCULAR APOINTIAG

MORALES IS SIGNED SY SIMENEZ AND, ACCORDING TO GIMENEZ, DAS APPROVED

BY OCTAVIO. LE PAGE, MINISTER UF INTERIOR, AND PRESIDEN? PEREZ.

SECRET

---

## Page 37

3007 OBSONITORYIOUS

iN 093663 :

TOFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 5 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT:

(class|Mcation)

WHEN INFORMATION ÓN MORALES APPEARED IN THE LOCAL PRESS, GIMENEZ

SAID HE ORDERED THAT ALL COPIES OF THE CIRCULAR ON MORALES BE.

RECOVERED. UNFORTUNATELY, MANY COPIES COULD NOT BE LOCATED..

9. IF THIS CIRCULAR IS REPRINTED IN THE LOCAL PRESS, GIMENEZ

SAID, IT WOULD CREATE A HIGHLY EMBARFASSING SITUATION FOR iNE

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND PARTICULARLY INTERIOR MINISTER LEPAGE.

WHO HAS DENIED THE EXISTENCE OF CUBAN EXILES IN DISP• THIS

POTENTIAL PROSLEM CUMES AT A PARTICULARLY BAD TIME, GIMENEZ SAID.

SINGE LEPAGE WILL BE THE ACTING PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA BEGINNING

15 NOVEMBER WHEN PRESIDENT PEREZ SEGINS A TRIP :O THE UNITED

NATIONS EUROPE AND THE SOVIET UNION.

18, FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARAÇAS.

REPORT CLASS SECRE T-WARNING NOTICE-SEUSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

•SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELÉASASLE TO FAREIGE NATIONALS-

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRATOR/CONSULTANTS

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATICS CONTROLLED BY

ORiGINATOR.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDES REPORTING OFFICER, XGDS-2.

SECR

---

## Page 38

- TOTAL PREs 55-5 me

SEGRET

PITHIN TrO

FHOMIBITEG

ISTA, RECEDENCE

-:-1.

11944915.5622%

Al-TiP,

UMIT

LAE

RF

FILE

V.H

AGC/ODO, ADO 3, COSG, C/SAZ, C/C/

: 8: 315150

ET A7 49

- PAGE :01

T.OR:192243Z OCT 76

074149

CAPA 31188

SECRET 192ZSAZ OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31186-

TOT PRIORITY DERECTOR.:

NINTEL RIBAT KASTONE MISPIKE

REFSA: A. DIRECTOR 929165

Bi: WASHINGTON. 0203.30

C. CARACAS 31137(1N 670661)

1: WE SHARE HEADQUARTERS CONCERN RE ARREST OF

WKSCARLETÜ3 (Ä-3) AND POSSIDILITY OF SUSPICIONIADDITIONAL

CHARGES HERALE CONNECTION WITH BOMBING. IN ADDITION TO.

INTEL REPORTINSI STATION CONTINUOUSLY ASSESSING EVENTS IN

RELATION TO MOST RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND WE ARE IN CLOSE

COORDINA TA ON WITH AMBASSADOR:

WE ARE UNABLE TO REPORT ANY i

FIRST-H

INFORMATION FROM HIJ

OR WKTANGO-1 PH-18 DUE, TO

LIMITATIONS ESTABLISHED BY AMBASSADOR:

PRIOR TO BOMBING

• INCIDENT BRADSPIES ATTEMPTED TO CONTÄCT W-S REGARDING APPARENTLY

UNRELATED: MATTER IN RES BE AFTER PÁCIDENT AND INITIAL

REPORT FROM INSEARLET-S FROM iNSCARLET-S. ATTEMORS- TO

CONTACT MOJ WEFE STOPPEU AND LATER WERE PROHIBITED BY

AMBASSADOR. AS HOI NAME BEGAN COMING UP WITH INCREASING

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

SECRET

201- 225923

DO NOT "22"2

---

## Page 39

8.11 u0 2171

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY_

PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED I

ADLANCE COPY ISSUEDiSLOTTED

ACTION VINT

RF . FILE

PER

1019: 100183_

SECRET_

R THAM

STAFF

VR.

т 315150.

ELA741

PAGE 82

TOR: 1922432 OCI %6

84 874149

CARA_

31189:

FREQUENCY, AMBASSADOR REQUESTED STATION PULL BACK, IN LIAISON

CONTACT THIS APPLIED ONLY TO W-I PERSONAL CONTACT

AND NOT TO WISCARLET LIAISON IN GENERALS.

2. AS YET STATION HAS NO HARD EVIDENCE WHICH DIRECTLY:

ш.-3

LINKS EITHER WOL; OR RICARDO MORAL'ES NAVARETTE TO THE

6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING. HOWEVER, THEIR REPORTED ASSOCIATION.

WITH ORLANDO 3 O S CP AVILA, THEIR BACKGROUNDS, AND W-J'S

PRIOR REPORTING ON TERRORIST ACTIONS SUGGEST THAT THEY: WERE.

ALL AWARE TO ONE DEGREE

OR ANOTHER OF PLANS FOR THE 6 OCTOBER

ACTION AND THAT NONE OF THEM ACTIVELY OPPOSED IT; OF THE

THREE W-3 SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN MOST LIKELY IMPLICATED THRÖUGH

HIS POSSIBLE ASSISTANCE TO HERNAN RICARDO LO ZANO ANDOR

FREDDY TU GO. WEI AND MORALES MAY HAVE BECOME ACCESSORIES-

AFTER-THE-FACT DEPENDING UPON THE POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF

ORLANDO BOSCH IN THE COMBING AND ITS AFTERMATH.

S. IT MAY BE WISHFUL THINKING BUT DO NOT FEEL THAT

N-3 IS IN POSITION REVEAL ANY TRUE INFORMÄTION WHICH COULD

IMPLICATE ANY OF HIS SEVERAL EMBASSY CONTACIS: SINCE CONTACT

WITH HIM IN RECENT YEARS HAS BEEN TO OUR KNONLEDGE LIMITED ON Y TO

VISA ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION

SECRE

---

## Page 40

4.9986660 8194

• ABLE SEC DiSSEN Bi_

_ PER.

• "EMSON UNIT NOTIFIED.

SUVANCE COPY ISSITO SIOTIED...

ARPION UNIT

RF. FILE .

N

SECRET

SSUING

STAFF

VR .

т 31 51 50

ELAY 41

PAGE 8S

TOR: 1922832 OCT 76

IN. 0741 49

CARA:

31184

REPORTING. HE COULD AT

MOST REVEAL NAMES. AND TELPHONE

NUMBERS.

HE SCARLET-5 EXPRESSED PERSONAL. OPINION

I THAT

H-3.

PARING PSI RETRIEN

DẠRE FIX BLAME ON BOSCH AND MIGHT. UNDER INTERROGATION

PRESSURE, ATTEMAT TO INPLICATE AKHERALD AS HIS SPONSORE WE

FEEL THIS POSSIBILITY IS RATHER REMOTE.

A.. WISCARLET-O APPEARS NOT TO BE

INVOLVED IN THE

ABOVE BUT HIS CUBAN BACKGROUND AND CLOSE ASSOCIATION WITH

HOLe ESPECIALLY IN RECENT HEEKS, UNDOUBTEDLY HAS

BROUGHT

HIM SOME NOTICE AND PROBABLY SUSPICION: WKSCARLET-S HAS

NOT BEEN MET SINCE HE MISSED A MEETING IN LATE SPETEMBER:

HE CALLED IN THE NEXT DÁY TO SAY THAT HE WAS NOT ABLE TO

MAKE AT.

HE SUBSECUENTLY CALLED HIS CASE OFFICERiS HOME ONGF WHiLE

HE HAS OUT BUT HAS NOT CALLED BACK TO SPECIFY A TIME FOR THE

NEXT. MEETINGS

HE ALSO HAS NOT RESPONDED TO THREE RECENT

RS-70B SIGNALS TO CALL IN AND ONE TO MAKE AN EMERGENCY

MEETING ÖN THE NIGHT DE & OCTOBER. STATION HAS DECIDED

AGAINST CALLING HIM DURING THIS CURRENT TENSE PERIOD AT

MIS ONLY REACHABLE NUMBER ONES ANG INNOBLE-I'S HOME. WE

MILL CONTINUE SIGNALLING AND AWAITING HIS CALL IN

FrI:

SECRET

---

## Page 41

1.91 SO. Bite

LÄBLE SEC DissiM Br

PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIND.

LUINCE CURI

•SUEDISLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF .

FILE,.

ACTIÓN !

:8. 315158-

TOIAL CORES

SECRET

MORO OFFiC

Premate

STAFF

_ AL

VR.

PAGE D'A

TOR: R: OCT OCT?6

WITH HKSCARLET-DIS NEW POST IN NKSCARLET GOES A

ROUNT-TRE-CLOCK ARMED ESCORT WHICH HE HAS TO RID HIMSELF OF

BEFORE MAKING A CLANDESTINE MEETING WITH HIS CASE OFFICER"

WK SCARLET-S HA'S EXPRESSED CONCERN OVER THE SECURITY PROBLEMS:

OF MEETINGS IN HIS CURRENT SITUATION. ESPECIALLY SINCE

HE HAS

MANY ENEMIES INO OR UNTIL RECENTLY IN, WISCARLET WHO WOULO

; LOVE TO TAR HIM WITH THE BKHERALD BRUSH.

SOMEONE WITH HIS

CUBAN BACKGROUND, OF COURSE, IS ESPECIALLY VULNERABLE TO THIS

CHARGE IN: THE ATMOSPHERE OF THE CURRENT FUROR ABOUT EXILES IN:

VENEZUELA. WILL ADVISE AS SOON AS WESCARLET-S RÉCONTACT iS

ESTABLISHED.

5. STATION FILES CONTAIN NO TRACES TO OLEG GUETON

RODRIGUEZ OR CELSA TOLEDO, STATION MUS ONE TRAGE TO FRANCISCO

NUNEZ. A CUBAN EXILE AND FORMER NAVY OFFICER EMPLOYED BY

ZULDAÇA AND MACHADO GROUPS. INFO APPEARS IN CONTACT

REPORTS DATED 6 AND O JUNE TOET, FILED IN AMEMBEROS FILE

WHICH NO LONGER AVAILABLE IN STATION. THERE IS ANOTHER TRACE

THAT ONE FRANCISCO E. NUNEE REPORTED A CASTRO ASSASSINATION

ATTEMPT TO A STATION ASSETS UPAA-4322, 7 APR 72. 166-080-014.

PROBABLY THE SAME FRANCISCO E, NUNEZ WAS LASTED IN MUCA-8538.

SECRET

IN 074149

CARA

÷ 31184

---

## Page 42

fir".

- 0.991 8559. 1099.

1074 EDIN-

...--

SECRET

SIVANCE CORS ISSURESIONIO

BE FILE

STAFF

VR

т 315150

EL A7.<1

PAGE 25-85

TOR: 1922832 O0T 76

23 AUGUST 1961. AS GENERAL DIRECTOR OF THE COMPANY AISLA.

CaNO AND IDENTIFSED AS HAVING FURNISHED A LEAD

TO A CUBAN VICE CONSUL WHO WAS PLANNING TO DEFECT.

o. FICE!

209-6-484/31

: 201-65829858 201-02859238

281 006786 0.

E2 IMPOET

IN 876149

CARA 31188

- 757;

SECR

E.T.

---

## Page 43

14-00000

33. 3 H

OMp O

SECRET

• STAFF

1620277

DIRECTOR

COME. C/LAS mO: me CliP/AN, C/NE 6, 0003, :

7990000 г

929665

кока

PER

ENENTEE MSTONE MHSPIKE S

Li LATE PRESS CLIPPINGS REPORT ARREST OF LUIS POSADA CARRILES.

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA: OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ, CELSA TOLEDO AND

--

FRANGISCO NUNEZ. POSADA AND CARRILES KNOUN TO STATION: PRELIMINARY

TRACES ON NUNEZ SHON HE UEALTHY CUBAN EXILE AND MENBER OF CORU

RESIDENT IN CARACAS. Y

2. WE ARE CONCEPNED IN SO FAR AS ARREST OF UKSCARLET-3 MIGHT CAST

SUSPICION, AND BRING ON ADDITIONAL CHARGES OF BKHERALD CONNECTION

WITH BOMBING, ESPECIALLY SINCE UKSCARLET-3 HAS IN PAST BEEM PUBLIC-

ALLY ACCUSED OF BEING BKHERALD AGENT. WE ALSO NOTE HE HAS BEEN SOME-

TIME CONTACI OF CARACAS LEGATT, AND STATION SUSPICION THAT HE YAS

CONTACT OF DAO: Y:

3. OF INTEREST IS THAT MUCH OF THE CARACAS END OF INVESTIGATION

OF THE AIRLINER, BOMBING AND REPORTING IS CONTROLLED BY UKTANGO-R3

GROUP. RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETTE IS GKTANGO-3 DEPUTY AND HAS BEEN

SERVING AS CONFTDENITAL INFORMANT. FOR LEGATE.

DisIp sUB-iNSPECTOR

ORLANDO GIMENEZ WHO SENT TO PORT OF SPAIN IS ALSO INCLUDED IN GRAOUP.

DATES

ORIG:

CROSS- FILE COFY FOX

UNITe.

201--285-923

EXT:

1 D2 202 22:

15O4 T6

SECRET

коон

REPADOUrTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO

€ 2

CL BY:

IMFDET

007255

---

## Page 44

OUTGOIN MESSAGE

. 0

OMF O

carico

SECRETA

COMP:

Ö:

Dro:

FiLE

999165

ток.

та школо

патитіто

DISSEM

'BYs

PER:

(.2069101))

ACCORDING TO CARACAS 31117 &

MELESS UNTANGO-S AND MORALES

NAVARRETTE HAVE ALSO BEEN INCLUDED IN ORLANDO BOSCH/UKSCARLET-

-GROUP. FBI REPORT QUOTING NUNEZ OF PARA 1 ABOVE STATED THAT

UKTANGO-1 AND MORALES NAVARRETTE ARE BOTH CONSIDERED TRUSTED PEOPLE

WHO HAVE BEEN COOPERATIVE AND INSTRUMENTAL IN CORU SUCCESSES AND IN

OTHER ACTIVITIES: INFORMATION IN CARACAS 31087

& REPORTING

TRUE NAME OF HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO, BEFOREIT WAS ACTUALLY REVEALED

BY RICARDO IN PORT OF SPAIN ON A OCTOBER ALSO CAME FROM MORALES

NAVARRETTE, INDICATING THAT HE HAD FOREKNOWLEDGE, BUT WHETHER HE

KNEU THIS THROUGH PARTICIPATION IN PLANNING OR INFORMATION HE

RECEIVED FROM HIS GUN INFORMANT IS UNKNOWN. PUTTING ALL THIS TOGET-

HER, BAND IN LIGHAT OF CARACAS 35117

INFORMATION, DE

CANNOT HELP BUT WONDER IF THERE IS NOT MORE GOING ON THAN IS APPARENT.

1,2 064447

CARACAS, 32086 38

SAL ALSO SEEMED TO SUSPECT THIS AT AN

EARLY STANGE. Y

4. VE MOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOUR VIEUS ON THE FOLLOUINGS S

LIKELTHOOD OF UNSCARLET-S REVEALING INFORMATION WHICH

COULD IMPLICATE ANY OF HIS SEVERAL EMBASSY CONTACTS. 4

DATET

UNiT.

EXT:

oceans oracena

REMADOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFF E IS PROMISTER

• 1

=

---

## Page 45

омр..о-

платом

GRET

поля

COMP:

INFO: FILE

929165

0

POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF UKTANGO-S ANDIOR MORALES

DISSEM BT:.

PER

NAVARRETTE. Y

HE WOULD ALSO LIKE TO HAVE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THOSE ARRESTED

ALONG WITH BOSCH AND POSADA, ON WHOM DE HAVE NO INFORMATION. YU,

5. PLS ADVISE GHAT YOU HAVE BEEN ABLE TO LEARN THROUGH LIAISON

CONTACTS WITH UKTANGO-3 AND UNILATERALLY FROM UXSCARLET-9. Y

FILE:

200-6-484/3;

2-0300405320-02859 201 006760-

EZ IMPDET .A

DATE:

ORIG:

UNiT;

EXT:

45 OCT 76

ROBERT U.

•C/LA/PNC/V

1.715

melanen

pill

ANDREU!

Вмілтика описата

REPRODUCTICN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUME OFFICE IS FROMIBITED.

SECRET

Bendile

CLAPNE.

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

007255

=..

---

## Page 46

14-00000

-:=1

X'=.

ir;

ai-t-i":

.i.s-.id.i

1:822

elenel ie

•- .

FILE"

d s;

1rlnio730s

Aluyi

and ficssentFERrtuet

1ti8

==1

rili ciiel

UAcen LuEd Mara1Na

-nodtr.tntläci:

¿ine

twidie!: 19.

1.17

FiLi

conlifidloe ifae

•iCLaL. 10uY

SUCINE VT.g

bsbbnll-

Jaaldaio dala YedLà

422%°--

-io o-an-

.--a-nne maa

tinntnaneu,iree

'oi radiogans tee

"in..

initätay paatint

i-iani

: 1 i

!.

---

## Page 47

241.

seen: +99 9 8910181083

1LAE

1326052

18: 001.0011

3. at

4614, Y05a, HeRS, 4152/10,

A6c/000, D003

P.:GE-81

TOR: 1522258 00T 76

S:2E5

IN

478681

3: 13-7

SECRET A52011Z OUT DE STAFF.

CITE

CARACAS 311-37

TOi DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM

REF: DIRECTOR 9,17878

1, FOR STATION INFORMATION, PARTICULARLY IWITH

REGARI PARA A REFO WOULD ADERECIATE HEADQUARTERS VIENS ON MU.S..

PERSON STATUS OF OGLANDO É OS EL AVILA, WETANGO-I, RICARDO

MOSAL ES NAVARETTE, AND WISEARLET-3:

2. NASCARLET 3 SURRENDERED EXPIREMALEN REENTRY PERMITS.

FOR SELF AND WIFE TO CARACAS CONSULAR UFFICER SOME WEEKS AGO!

THEY HAVE VENEZUELAN PASSPORTS WITH U, SO VISITORS VISAS. INEŸ

HAVE ONE CHILDO BOAN IN US. MHO WAS U.S. FASSPORTS, WKSCARLET-3

iS ALSO BELIEVED CURRENT ON U:S. INGOME TAXES.

TS NIlE% 221-03678681 281-22859236 201-9320985

- E2.

IMOPET.

S

E

---

## Page 48

ORIG

UNIT

FORTE

CONTI

TRASMITTAL

OF

THFIN INFORMATIOS KEPONT

TARRIET WEILER

LA/ PNC/V/R

9451

14 OCTOBER •976

OPS/INT. S,. HD.

PS/EG 2,

CI

LA 22

OSG IC 2, FR

5

CLASSITICATION

POUTING

4,

SECRET

ss/SOG",

#5001

OPS/ITG 5,

jin-

TDFIR DB-315/10256-76

• PRECEDENGE

XI ROUTINE 1.

BASED ON iRO APT. PROI!

-HVC-7514

CARACAS 31117 (IN 069101)

WKMAYOR (WKSCARLET+S)

4 OBJ:

JI:

DATE DISTRIBUTED

14 OCTOBER: 1976

DISSEMINATION

CALA

LA/PNC/C

DE/LA

LALOPS

LA/CAR

LANCA

LAL RR

LA/SB

LA/REG:

LA/COG

3:

2.

4.

•LA/ PNC/V| 3

LÄLPNC/PLI:

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE X-IN APPROPRIATE SPACE

LIAISON: *

TO IID: STATE, DIA, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, JCS.

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TO:

SUS. •CIA/OOSCEN, -TREASURY, SS/ID,.FBI.

¿TID COMMENT: ADVANCE COPY: TO SIG CENTER

FOR ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION AT 2975 HPS LOCAL.!

O ERWAHOO UFTER CABLE SENT

PORT OF SPAIN, GEORGETOWN, KINGSTON,

•CITY,

MANAGUAN GUATENALA CITY, PANAMA CITY,

EXCLUSIVE FOR

SANTO DOMINGO!

SANTIAGO, BOGOTA

(lias addresses)

RELA, CABLE PREPARED

Dalimor with putra copy to

ablo Secrétarras

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--

NOT RELEASÁBLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORY

CONSULTANTS

NOT FOR LIAISON

REPORT. CLASSIFIED: 8Y. 035133

MUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY:

COORDINATING

OFFICERiS)

C/LA/PNC/R

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

1K-2 uSE PrIvous 101710ns

CL BY 007622

E Z. IMPOET

RELEASING OFFICER

Kueliw im

своріні пок

CO

NO.

188.80. 28

---

## Page 49

ГЕСИНСЕУ (ЛльМаГ"""

12 1 6881-11

Inte"igence Information Cable

MYARNINC NOTICE

SENSITIVE L'TELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SMS NSA TREAS NSC/S SÓO NIO CRS

1811.

iN 06101

PAGE I OF 5 PAGÉS

остомті or.

ONRATIONS

Sarate to it a da

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

TO

THIS IS AN INFOZMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELUGENCE

SECRET

CITE TOAR D3-315718255-76

-DIST 34 OCTOBER 1.976

Cuve

REPORT CLASS SECRET-HARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND ISTHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--

NOT PELEASASLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANIS2O6O00

TVÀ TCH

SECUNTRYS

igail.o

VENEZUELA/CUBA

W123000

122200 TVE KUS

NOT LATE SEPTEMBER -32 OCTBER 19961

SUBJECTS ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH DURING

THIS STAY IN VENEZUELA. SUSPECTED > TERRORIST ON WHOM US

AN EULTING RACAGALE OCTOBER ADITI PRELON HUG-1514

ACQU

-SOURCES:

I FORMER VENÉZUELAN GOVERNHENT OFFICIAL WHO STILL MAINTAINS

CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, HE IS A

USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER.

THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE

DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE

OF THE VENEZUSLAN GOVERNMENT

FIELD COMMENT: IN LATE SEPTEMBER 1976 A USUALLY RELABLE

SOURCE REPORTED THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BO SCH WAS IN

VENEZUELA' UNDER THE PROTECTION OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

ANARES PERCE FURTHERHORE PERCE MAD APPOINTED HIS SEGURITE

AND INTELLIGENCE ADVISER ORLANDO GARCIA TO PROTECT AND ASSIST

BOSCH DURING HIS STAY IN VENEZUELA, FOR THIS INFORMATION SEE

NUC-7498 TDF1RD8-315/09434 -76:

IN HVC-7483, TDF IRDB-315/09130-749

^.:

•I SECRET.

---

## Page 50

IN 019103

TDFIR DB-715/17256-76

WARNIC NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2.

OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

OF MID-SEPTEMDER® A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.

REPORTED THAT BOSCH ARZIVED IN VENEZUELA ON APPROXIMATELY 13 SEPTEMBER

UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, MOSCH

HAS MET AT. THE AIRPORT

BY GARCiA AND LUIS CLEMeNTE

POSA.DA. A PRIVATE INVESTiGATOR

AND ONE-TIME MENGER OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENG

•AND PREVENTION (DISIP), NHO ESCORTED BOSCH TO HIS CARACAS HOTEL.

•FIELD COMMENT: HHILE CURRENTLY NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZENS

, BOTH, GARCIA AND POSADA ARE NATIVE-BORN CUBANS.)

43. - SOMETIME

FOLLOHING BOSCHIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, A BS.

5,200 (APPROXIMATELY U.S. $1,118) A PLATE FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR

BOSCH HAS HELD AT THE HOME OF HILDO FOLGA ROA.

PROMINENT

SURGEON AND CUBAN EXILE.

IN ADDITION TO BOSCH, AMONG THOSE ATTENDING.

THE DINNER HERE GARCIAS RICARDO MORALES

"NAVARETTE; GARCIAIS

DEPUTY WHO IS ALSO A NATIVE-BORN CUBAND POSADAS AND AN UNIDENTIFIED

HIGH-LEVEL. OFFICIAL OF THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.

DURING THE EVENING BOSCH AppRoAcHED THE MINISTRY OF iNTeRIOR

OFFICIAL

THROUGH GARCIA PROPOSING THAT THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT MAKE

A SUBSTANTIAL CASH CONTRiBUTION TO HiS ORGANIZATION. IN RETURN.

BOSCH ÄGREED TO GUARANTEE THAT

THERE HOULD BE NO CUBAN EXILE DEMON-

STRATIONS IN THE, UNITED STATES DURING

PRESIDENT PEREZ! PLAMNED

SECRET

---

## Page 51

069101

IN

TDF1R 08-315/10256-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

• PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSESUNATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECI TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

NOVEMBER APPEARANCE AT THE UNITED NATIONSÇUNS. ISOURCE COMMENTE

IT IS SELIEVED THAT BOSCH'S PROPOSITION WAS AT LEAST TENTATIVELY

ASCEPTED BY THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR OFFICIAL D

•5. ALSO DURING THE EVENING BOSCH MADE THE STATEMENT THAT, "NOH

THAT

OUR ORGANIZATION HAS COME OUT

OF THE LETELIER JOB LOOKING GOOD.

HE ARE GOING TO TRY SOMETHING ELSE."

BOSCH DID NOT NAME THE ORGANI

ZATION NOR DID HE EXPAND ON HIS MEANING. FIELD COMMENTS: THE

¡ LETELIER MENTIONED ASOVE IS PROBABLY FORMER CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER.

ORLANDO

LETENDER, WHO WAS ASSASSINATED IN THE. UNITED STATES

ON 21 SEPTEMBER.)

6,

A FEW DAYS FOLLQWINÜ THE FUND-RAISING DINNER, POSADA HAS

OVERHEARD

TO SAY THAT; "WE ARE GOING TO HIT: CUBAN AIRPLANE," AND

THAT "ORLANDO HAS THE DETAILS," (SOURCE COMMENT! THE IDENTITIES

OF THE: "HE" AND "ORLANDO" MENTIONED IN THE STATEMENT ARE NOT KNOWN.)

7 FOLLOMING THE 6 OCTOBER CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH OFF THE

COAST OF BARBADOS, BOSCH, GARCIA AND POSADA AGREED THAT IT HOULD

BE GEST FOR BOSCH TO LEAVE VENEZUELA, THEREFORE; ON 9 OCTOBER •

POSADA AND GARCIA ESCORTED BOSON TO THE COLOMBIAN BORDER; WHERE

THE LATTER CROSSED OVER

INTO COLOMBIAN TERRITORY,

8: OU THE BASIS OF INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM TRINIDADIAN

SECRET

---

## Page 52

IN 06 112?

TDFIRDB-715/17256-76

WARNLIC NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classiMession)

¡AUTHORITIES IMPLICATING HIM, POSADA WÁS ARRESTED BY DISIP AUTHORITIES

ON 12 OCTOBER.

HIS OFFICE WAS SUSSEQUENTLY RAIDED AND ALL FILES

9.

MEANWHILE, PRESIDENT PEREZ HAS ÄSSURED THE CUBIN GOVERNMENT;

THRUSH CUSAN AMBASSADOA NURUERTO HERNANDEZ CURBELO, THAT

"THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNHENT VILL ENERGETiCALLY PURSUE THE iNVESTiGATION

OR THE CUBANA CRASH. IN RETURN, HOEVER, CUBA HILL BE EXPECTED TO

SUPPORT VENEZUELAIS ANTI-TERRORISM POSITION AT THE UN.

110. CEMBASSY COMMENTO THE AMBASSADOR COMYENTS:

•I THE LEGATT

HAS DIFFERENT, INFORMATION AS TO WHETHER BOSCH WAS EXFILTRATED OR IS

OR IS NOT IN VENEZUELA, GARCIA SPOXE TO LEGATE SUNDAY MORNING: 10.

OCTOBER, AND ON THE AFTERNOON OF 12 OCTOBER TOLD HIM "INFORMALLY"

THẠT THE PRESIDENT WOULD SHORTLY ADVISE ME THAT BOSCH WOULD BE

TURNED OVER TO US, THIS HAS REPEATED TO LEGATT BY DISIP DIRECTOR

RAUL GIMENEZ GAINZA AND OTHER DISIP DEFICIALS INCLUDING

GARCIA, IN A MEETING THE MORNING OF 13. OCTOBER.

CONCEIVABLY GARCIA

CẦN BE PLAYING A DARK GAME, BUT THE DISCREPANGIES ARE NOTEWORTHY!

..! MAVE NOI. YET RECEIVED ANY OFFICIAL HOND AS TO THE PRESIDENTIS :

DECISION

11, FIELD DISSEM: EMSASSY, LEGATT AT CARACASE SENT TO

---

## Page 53

•.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN 069201

TDFIR DB-72.5/311?56-77

PAGE 5 OF 5 PAISES

¡ SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECI TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

PORT OF SPAINO GEORUETONN KINGSTON • MEXICÓ GITY, MANAGUA,:

GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGOO SANTIAGDe BOGOTA,

-..

REPORT, CLASS SECRET WARNING AGTICE-SENSiTIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND MÈTHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASASLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASASLE TO CONTRACTUS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2,

ADVANCE COPY TRANSNITTED TO:

STATE, DIAT ARMY NAVY- AIRY JCSiNSA, SUS,

CIA/OPSCEN, SS/ID, FRI, TREASURY.

S

R

---

## Page 54

CABLE SEC DISSEN ST

DER_

FEASO

_ADLANEL COPS SSUETONTO TA

ACTION UNIT

LA8

N

ACTION •

291757

10594041199

SECRET

-= 5. 2500

OTMER

STAFF

13

FAGE 21

T.QR: 251457Z OCT 26

IN. 864880

POSN

15890

SECRET E91625Z OCT 76. STAFF

CITE PORT OF SPAIN 15090

P.I

TO:..

IMMEDIATE CARÀCAS: DIRECTOR.

NIACT CARACAS.

P, 43'

WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTUNE

BRANTI, PROÇACH

R0G82:5T

Pet on fees

1. 3 71

..„l. read

10/54 CEN (08)

and 19)

TER INS

REP CARAGAS 01087 (4 064424)

1. INFO IN FES NO! YET RECEIVED BY EMBASSY FROM LEGATT.

PLEASE REQUEST LEGATI TO INFORM US THROUGH STATE CHANNELS

VIA NIACT.

2. STATION HAS PREPARED STATE NIACT SEXISY FOR CARAÇAS

WITH INFO PROVIDED STATION MORNING OS OCT THAT DURING INTERRO-

GATION EARLY MORNING HOURS NO GET JOSE VAZ QUEZ. GOMEZ

ADMITTED MIS TRUE NAME WAS HERNAN RICARDO LOZ AND.

3C REQUEST CARAÇAS STATION TRACES HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO

COR RICARDO HERNAN LOZANDS AND INDICATION WHAT MAY BE

PASSED POLICE.

G.. PLEASE SEND REPLY NIACT.

S, MORE DETAIL'S SEPARATE CABLE.

6: FILE: (281-285923) 208-6-45413. EZ IMPDET

Who Tarces par CARD 31094. YOCTE

RECORD COPE FRET

501-2859413

D200-1.484/3

---

## Page 55

15s.

muttertiono

…..!!

AFF 76

;.i...

i :::3:

÷=÷ 9:59

• : TEETON HARO LEMEDIATE PANAMA CHTY 1F:? LIN

is ist ( 195927)

•WÖ WETROLFULTRO NEASTAPERS MORAING 23 APHI

PC.SE GRASDA FEATURES HALF FRONT PAGE HIACLiNE TH:" "1!

Pay-285423

LE

15

CO ANDO MOSA REGENE EURESSE TELEPHONE DIREUGEY LISTET!

ÉN:•TMENT 36 DE MAYFLONER GUILDING ES RESIDENCE CE DEND EUS.

.... .

. .

=.

11:"

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

201+ 285923:

DO NOL DESTROY

---

## Page 56

STAIF

...,

78:325

CaRA

29557.

CES ETEREAGHES DU EMBASSY AS ALLEGED. COVER FOR

4130.

PRESS MANDPULATION OF

FAILLESO LAVESEIGUALLY FROM DEUGA TO DOUGLAS

n.-i

SETTTTA CLOSE TO POSSIGLE CENCIDENTAL

NS:

6F

¿ANE BANE FRILLIPS.

-==2.

ER. IMPOET.

sigi

aretarro

34 T3:

DATLE SFC.

DSA D/SECU;R

domino

''-÷-pase

---

## Page 57

14-00000

15:.1810

IN 659922

11552

STAFF

"Tal C:9464S 25652

•EASLE SEC SUGGESTS DISSES TO: DOU MISER PANI

1E DESIR-S SETO FORM 15% 7O CASLE SEO

•CHEST HE DIRECTOR INTO IMMEDIATE PANZER CITY CFOR.

SOMERT ANSTONE MHABYSS

Taper

131 KAD

Pig:

alcas 235es ( 891535),

!: True

-. =

-CES 25575- ( 812817)

AT REAPE TO ARTERNOON EDITION EISURES BALAY

LATINA 30E42/35

•EBO GERERENCE AND FRONT-PAGE,, ONE INCH HEADLINE STORY

GO EVESTHSATINS TNO FUNCTIONARIES DO 1IS. EMBASSY

i-19F2

EAGECTING PLOT TO PROVOKE RUPEESE CE NEMERUELASE

STORY LECÓMPANIED BY FRITOS OF $8GAR0O:

5243

Sads S6n663

lu!!

#SUSTANE-S AND SALVADOR SENANT CRUE

LUTHOSSHIR OF STORY ATTRIEUTED TO OMAR BENARCE PE

FOLLERING DUENES MADE:

DEAU RECEIVEG SEN DSTRUCTIONS 3 NEERS AS6

CROSS FILS COPY FOR

201-23592.3

DO NOT DESTROY.

CAEN EALGUVESTUELTIEN ETO CLANDESTINE ROTIVRTLES DE NORTH

IVER: CHIS :DUGS HEED; PAILLIOS AND FRED ENGAGE

THAT GREATE SERGERR FOR

=.

---

---

## Page 58

''-'

09 гг.

RF

FILE.

?!

562960

E14221

FAGE 32

TOR:2313692 49R 75

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RÈLATIONS COMMENT ON THESE DEVELOPMENTS.

REPUATER HAS AGLE CONFIRM PRESENCE IN VENÈZUELA ÖF PHILLIPS

AND •DUNCAN.

C. AN UNIDENTIFLED SPOKESMAN OF THE INFERMATION

SHUTION OF THE EMBASSY iS QUOTED AS SAYING THAT PHILLIPS AND

RICA: ARE FUSETIGVARIES OF THE EMBASSY DU THE DREURTMENT

•AURITIE AGAINST DRUGS GUT THEY ARE NOT FUNGRIEVARIES OR TEE

CHAND DO NOT DO ANY WORK

FOR THAT AGENCY: INE SPOKESTAN

PETARTED TO 22 ARFIL PRESS INFORMITION AS COMFLETELY FALSE.

::.

DE ARMAS ALSO ACCUSEO: IN MIS REPORT SALVAGGE

_ OCTANE-O OF HAVING CONGUETER PUELICITY CRUPATEE

MITE THE SAME DOGECTIVE COIP RELATIONS BREAKS.

6. ROMANI RESPONDED TO THE AGCUSATION AS BEING A

STUPILTY AND POSSIBLY PART OF A MANEUVER BY TOEL CASTRO.

.....

WROCTANE 9 RESPONDED TO THE ACCUSATICO

LABELLING IT A VILE CALUAUY AND INDICATING A SISFOSITION TO

TATE IME MATTER GEFORE A COURT.

É. NO STATION TRACES OMAR ZAVARCE PO SATION HAS NOT

HAS CONTACE MITA MROGTALEGD STAGE LATE 1093.

1N 298922

CARA

2965?

---

## Page 59

d. ansaristanicon

11. 8039

sr0r.en

652400259

5:255

542962

5:922:

FAGE 23023

T231E29Z AFA 76

AND AXAORTHCIS HAS DENIED TO SIATION THERE ANY TRUTH TO

REPORT, PRENSA LATINA ARTICLE-S PRjATEO IN MORNING PEDER

OÈS RE-RUN IN AFTERNDON PAPER DOES NOT MENTION EITHER

¿GUANA OR NADERANE-O, BUT FRENSA LETIÑA TELTAO INDICATES

¡A"=S NERE INCLUDED IN ORIGINAL MAVANA DISPATCA, STATION

•CHING DEVELDSMENT THIS EVENT CAREFULLY, AMONG OTHEG

•-ACCOS, DE CHEDGE PL RELEASE iS INTENCED SERVE AS PES FOR

COAL REVELATIOYS REPORTER RET E.

fire, toe

FILE:

222-122-152.

E2 IMPDET

1N 898922

CARA

29652

---

## Page 60

E

'IS"

293053

..=

CA225

Fastnervic

ISOLE LA.

1455"

19.?.

=58649

v4

CORS CES.2, 06C2,20% SECUE3

214769

FAJE 21

TOR: 2610512 49R 76

SEC:: 12210142 ARR.76 STAFF

AFE CARdGAS 29041

"C: JUVEDIATE GIRECTUR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAYA CITY 8FCR GANSGOO

CROSS FILE COP: iCa

201-x85923

DO BOT DISTROY

897535

CARA

29841

10S04139 TOSTENE SGEMART MRiGYSS

12•: Cireoт0й 814506

FO:, ¿NAGEAS DATLY NENSPAPER ULTIMAS NOTICIAS, 26 19T

7O CARRIES GREASA LATINA STORY LATELINED HABANA ED ANG TITLES:

CIA RECUSES EE MURDERING ANTI-CLSTRO LEADERS.

STORY CENTERS ATOUAD

ALLEGED PRESS CUNFERENCE IN AMIC- MANUEL DE

A SO CLAIMING

TO DE A FOSTER CIA AGENT, "TELLS ALL" ABOUT "OPÉRATION LSDALA."

DE ARMAS GLADES THAT WHILE STATIONED IN NEW YORK IN I971 NE

MAINTAIDEO CONTACT GITH TWO CIA DEFICIALS LENUS ELACKENHOUSE WHO

ME RECHUNTED HIM THO YEARS FRELIOUSLY, IND RICHARD TOMLEY OF

MILER, MISSINCERERU HAD TAIRES MIMASONHO EVALUATED HIS FER-

FANGE MATTALLO DO OPERATION LOALA! DE AGUAS AUSS CLAIMS THAT.

PERCHASE GRILERS GOTINST VENEZUELAN

TOURISE OFFICIALS IN PUERTO

ACO ARE COPCLNATED MITH THE CIA ANO CARRIED OUT BY A PERSCH.

---

## Page 61

S.E:

2000602196001

• ÷.

Starse:

#AGE TH

TOR:2215519 199

1 897535

CARA

39549

OF

PREDARATIANS FOR RITACKS AGAINST EXILES AND TRAG THIS GLANNING

WAS BERGERCE "ONES PRIOR TO THE A55ASSINATION-DE DOSE DE LA

1561-33593°

SAYS S03 DYNEGO A CIA OFFICER

PARTICIFATES DO MEDALA FOR THE SUPPLYOF EXGLOSIVES IN GIA

MISSIONS

RELATES TO GULLED DE AREAS SALE DE SERVED TO THE ABDALA OPERATION

1L50

EG ENGLESLUE MATCH MERE USED 1N

Tha dale in nicee Maste less?

ÉE ARMÁS BDENTIGIES MILLS AS A

LINESE: DEFICER BETORE THE DEPARTYENES DE JUSTICE dUD DEFENSE.

DE ARMAG AGFEIGEE TO GITACKS AGAINST CUEND FISHERMEN DOG SAID.

ROBERTO FOR A CLA LARGAMANT LIVING DO EATA AVENUE SETAEEN 3

AND Q ESTED IN SETAREST MIAMI MES THE MISSIOR CE LOCATING THE

SCAT'S.

•20 DE GAMES ELATES THE CIA IS ENGAGES IN A PLAN TO BRING

ARQUT RUPTURE LE RELATIONS GETAEEN VENGELLA AND CUSH, ASC THAT-

FRES DUNCAN EGGSE PRILLIPS, GADER DIALOUATIO COVER, ARE O.

PARTICIPATING DO iNE PLANO QUICAN INO PHOLUPOS ARE ALLEGES TO

IN THE AMY FLORERA GUILDING BA CARAÇAS, IN

3.

AÀ THE CONGLUSIOO GE MES CONFÉRENCE, CELONAS IS MEGGARED

---

## Page 62

14-0000

?..

......

'"t:

1214"

=

tit

FILE

EТA76S

-PAGE 03

TOR: 221651248976

IN 597535°

CARA

29401

READ A LIST OF CIA OFFICERS AMICH INCLUDEO JONE VALDAVIAN

ACE 0PE3AT0R DE THE AREA DE LA FLORIDA ISECTION OF CARACAS GF

SEITE DE ELF-jOGIE: CLERRO AND RICHARO TOMELY, AN CPERATIONS

MAGENS MIRGINIA SPECIALIZINO IN CUERS GUERITIONS. BUP

•. DE iCTiFiED iS BEING iN CHILE, FRED DUNÇÃR 45 AN OPERAiOE

Ai - CURAGEO STATION. COUGH PHILLIPS ES A LILISEN. DEF.GER MI"H

THEMENT dE LUSTIGER AO MASSO AN EFFICER DE THE SANTO DUMINES

u?L:

BEn

¡CERTIFIED. AS A CLA GEENT-TFORMANT IN MIAMI;

LAGENT : GETICES DAD LATÓNIO DE) LEON, dA ASENT LA MEXICO.

•È MIAGGLATTERS GNARE FRED DUNCAN AND LEE PHILLIPS ARE

THE TRE CREAGAS-LEA DUSTRIET OFFICERS, DER USED SEFENCUSE IN

MAL FUENER SUNGEHNG TE XEET DE GAMES:

AUGGESSARLENiS SiRECTED NO COMMENT ENGESSE SESDOASE TO

A: 1160119=5.

=. IN: 7010266:50.

---

## Page 63

14-00000

SFCKET

DO COCUMENT EXTÀACT

THE FCILOWING ENFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201

DOSSIER HAS BEEN

EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSON'S PERFORMING NAME THACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT

MENT FROM WHICH

THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS AODITIONAL

INFERMATICN PERTAINING TO THE SUSJECT AND SHMULO BE REQUESTED

FROM IPAFILES..

MORALES NAVARRETE, RICARUC

201-0285923

SEX M

056-005-021

HZPA-21247

21 APR 76"

P2

RESIDES VENFZUELA

CURAN EXILE-POSSIBLE TRAVEL TS PANAMA SEC

SERVICE PANA TAKING HOSTILE POSITION AGAINST

CUBAN EXILES TRAV TO PANA. ATTITUDE DIRECTED

AGAINST CUEAN EXILES RES OF MIAMI. MAY BE

ALLEGED-COOPERATION BETWEEN

CUBAN

EXILES AND

PANA EXILES MIAMI WHO UPPUSED TO REGIME GEN

TORRIJOS

DATE 17 MAY 76

09401546

201: 285923

SECR

ET:.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979.

---

## Page 64

14-00000

L'STGOING MESSAG:

ONF

XLADANNATION

SECRET

no sands nance no noncaras

STAFF

CONF: OPS/iNARDNTO: FRE

DIRECTOR

IPAN, LAZ, ClOPS,

554, PSlEGa

640738

DISSEM OY: 29

PER

IMMEDIATE

TO: / CARACAS, BOGOTA: LA/MIAMI-Y

MHABYSSY

L. PARA 2 IS VERBATIM TEXT OF DEA HAS MSG TO THEIR REGIONAL

AND DISTRICT OFFICES IN CHARACAS, BOGOTA AND. MIAMI WHICH THEY RE-

QUESTED BE SENT BKHERALD CHANNELS, FYI: DEA CONCERNED THAT THE

FIVE APPARENTLY UNRELATED CASÉS INVOLVING CUBAN EXILES MAY, IN SOME

JAY, INDICATE THEY TARGET OF COORDINATED PROVOCATION OP-Y

2.:, TEXT OF DEA MSG FOR PASSAGE FOLLOWS:

.."ARD MACOLINI, CARACAS REGIONAL OFFICE, DEA

"SAIC CONZALEZ, BOGOTA DISTRICT OFFICE, DEA

"ARD COSTA, MIAMI REGIONAL OFFICE, DEA

"SUBJECT: CUBAN EXILES INVOLVED, WITH DEA SEC-IGI-76-0062637

"NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

"DURING THE PAST SEVERAL WEEKS DEA HAS BECOME INVOLVED IN FIVE

SEPARATE INCIDENTS INVOLVING CUEAN EXILES WHO MAY HAVE RECORDS OF

POLITICAL AND REVOLUTIONARY INTRIGUE. IN FOUR OF THE INCIDENTS

CUBANS ARE APPARENTLY BEING RECRUITED AS CIS: OR, HAVE OFFICIAL LIAISON

CONTACT WITH DEA- EDI AND IGI STRONGLY RECONNEND THAT DEA

OFFICES

DATE: 20 FEB 26.

ORIG:

UNSTE

1a: 0285923

---

## Page 65

OUTGOING MESSAGE

_seo

тто

SECRETE! A14PN76

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

2

DIRECTOR

810738

коля

DISSEM BY!

PER

DISCONTINUE ANY CONTACT WITH THESE INDIVIDUALS PENDING FURTHER DE-

TAILED ANALYSIS OF EACH OF THESE CASES. DUE TO THE SENSITIVE NATURE

OF THIS MATTER. THIS TOPIC WILL BE DISCUSSED IN GREATER.

DETAIL AT

THE RDS CONFERENCE AT HATRS. ON FÉB 23, 8976- A BRIEF SUMMARY OF

THE FIVE CASES FOLLOUS: Y

AJ. ON JAN 3Í, 19976, THE CRO REQUESTED CHECKS ON SZB-5-0003-

: 1 001-0286570

MARIO ELOY JIMENEZ-ROJO. INITIAL RESULTS OF CHECKS WITH VARIBOUS

FEDERAL. AGENCIES REVEALED THAT JIMENEZ• A CUBAN BORN NATURALIZED

AMERICAN RESIDING IN CHARACAS, WAS IN 1949 KNOUN TO THE BATISTA GOVT-

AS MEMBER OF REVOLUTIONARY INSURRECTIONAL UNION. JIMENEZ LATER TOLD

U-S- OFFICIALS THAT HE WAS VETERAN OF APR 1963 BAY OF PIGS OPERATION:

IN 1969; JIMENEZ WAS INVOLVED WITH THREE OTHER CUBANS IN PLAN TO.:

ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO. WHEN INFORMED THAT U.S. GOUT. WOULD NOT

SANCTION PLAN AND THAT, THE FOUR WOULD POSSIBLY BE SUBJECTED TO

FEDERAL PROSECUTION, JIMENEZ STATED THAT HE WANTED NOTHING MORE TO

DO WITH THE PLAN. CHECKS ON JIMENEZ CONTINUE-Y

•2.. ON FEB 33: 3976, IN GFZB-75-8001 THE CRO REQUESTED CHECKS

ON ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZO A CUBAN UHO HOLDS SENSITIVE POSITION WITH

DATE: 20 FEB 36

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

пожато

SECRET

оотожетно отталоь

REPRCOV: "IN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG OFFICE IS PPAMITITER

E 2

• IMPDET

CL BY: 063055

---

## Page 66

OUTGOING, MESSAGE

500 .

GrF 0

можжатися

SECRET

nor de vantan, enora ton

STAFF

COMF:.

17O: PIe

DIRECTOR

8IC738

DISSEM BY:

то окол

ніта то.

GOVT. OF VENEZUELA AND HAS MADE LIAISON CONTACT WITH CRO. INITIAL

RESEARCH INDICATES THAT GARCIA IS A CUBAN EXILE HOLDING. A PROMINENT.

FOSITION IN THE VENEZUELAN INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE BAND MAY BE THE

HEAD OF SPÈCIAL GROUP THAT USES FORCE TO REMOVE ENEMIES OF THE

USNEZUELAN GOUT. IN OCT 1974, GARCIA REPORTEDLY WAS ACTIVELY RE-

CRUITING CUBAN EXILES IN MIAMI. GARCIA IS BELIEVED TO BE AN INFORM-

AND FOR ANOTHER U.S. AGENCY AND HAS ALSO HAD CONNECTIONS WITH COSTA

RICAN GOUT- OFFICIALS AND ALLEGED TRAFFICKERS. CHECKS ON GARCIA

CONTINUE. Y

..

3. ON FEB 12: 1976 IN GFZB-76-6215 CRO REQUESTED BIO DATA

001-028592

FA MIAMI RO ON RICARDO MORALES PRESENTLY WORKING FOR A SENSITIVE

VENEZUELAN GOVT. AGENCY. MORALES HAD LIAISON CONTACT WITH CRO.

INITIAL CHECKS INDIÇATE MORALES FORMER CI POR DEA AS WELL AS OTHER

"U-s. AGENCYnER..

. MORALES PRIMARILY WORKING FOR GOV ON CUBANS RE-

SIDING IN CARACASE. MORALES, BORN IN CUBA, WAS FORMERLY IN G-2

IN: CUBA IN THE 3950'S-4

-4. ON FEB. 13- 1976. IN GFGX-8037. JUSTO LAZARO ALFONSO FOLL

DEA/MIAMI OF ALLEGATIONS THAT AN UNNAMED COLOMBIAN ARMY GENERAL

DATE:

20 FEB. 76

EXT::

MEPROOUETION bY OTHER THAM THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO

SECRET

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 061066

---

## Page 67

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

sco

OMF

SECRET

STAFF

COMF:

D0т8-70т8 0004

DATO: MILE

DIRECTOR

810738

000.

ого виски

ANETO PER

DISSEM BYS

COULD PROVIDE INFO ON DRUG TRAFFICKING. THE GENERAL WAS ALSO AL-

LEGEDLY INVOLVED IN COUP PLOTTING AGAINST THE GOUT. OF COLOMBIA. CI

IS CUBAN EXILE WORKING IN MIAMI. U.S. EMBASSY, BOGOTA, ON FEB 12.

39761. NOTED SERIOUS DOUBTS OF VALIDITY OF INFO PROVIDED BY MIAMI CI

AND INSTRUCTED THAT CI NOT TRAVEL TO COLOMBIA. MATS. NOU HAS UN-.

CONFIRMED INFO THAT CI HAS BEEN DETAINED IN COLOMBIA: Y

Fi_IN GFGI-76-4035- S13-0053 IS IN CONTACT BITH MARIA A.

0213120

BETANCOURT IN CÁRACAS- BBETANCOURT IS ALLEGEDLY THE DAUGHTER OF A

FORMER VENEZUELAN AMBASSADOR TO CUBA. SHE ALSO IS ALLEGEDLY EBUT

NOT CONFIRMEDI THE WIFE OF THE CURRENT CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO VENEZUELA.

ACCORDING TO THE CI, BETANCOURT ASKED IF CI WOULD CARRY WHITE HEROIN

FROM CARACAS TO U.S. ON FEB I2, 1976, BETANCOURT HAD CI INTRODUCED

TO THREE SUBJECTS AT CUBAN EMBASSY, CARACAS. THREE SUBJECTS ATTEMPT-

ED RECRUIT CI TO WORK FOR THÈM IN THE U•S-Y

"ALL DEA OFFICES ARE REQUESTED TO CLOSELY COORDINATE ABOVE

CASES AND ANY OTHERS IN WHICH THERE IS POLITICAL INFORMATION WITH SRE

COUNTERPARTS- ALL OFFICES ARE TO INFORM HOTRS. OF ANY OTHER CURRENT

CASES INVOLVING CUBAN EXILES AS INFORMANTS AND/OR SUSPECTS.Y

DATE:

ORIG:

28 FEB 76

UMIT:

EXT:

a dress ounce

като

•CRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THEM THE ISSUING GETICA IS ANON. BRIN

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 063063

---

## Page 68

OUTGOING MESSAGE

Alris

Blof

STAFF

CONF:

DIRECTOR

810738

но клока

катики то

DISSEMONS

PER

"DÄNIEL P. CASEY, ACT ASST ADM FOR INTEL Y

3.. MES TRACES BEING RUN ON EACH CASE. ONE IMMEDIATE CONCERN

TO BKHERALD IS THAT DEA NOT ALLAYS REGISTERING SOURCES OR COORDINAT-

ING THEIR OPS INVOLVING U-S--BASED CIS WHÖ OPERATING IN LA COUNTRIES.

THIS WILL GE SUBJECT FURTHER DISCUSSIONS AT HAS LEVEL BUT HELCOME

YOUR COMMENTS AS. YOU DISCUSS CISES LOCALLY. HAS RECORDS INDICATE

MARIO ELOY JIMENEZ-ROSO AND RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTES ARE REGISTER-

ED IN ISR. CARACAS AND BOGOTA WILL RECOGNIZE CURRENT CASES, NUMBERS

"'ANO S IN ABOVE DEA MSGI OTHERS BEING SURFACES FOR AFIRST TIME BY

DATE:

• De is

UNITS

EXT:

20 FEB 76

LHPIPERINS

DDO/OPS/MARCOG

3504/7263

let /beefe

SECRET

CALA/OPS/N:

RIPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNRE OFTICE IS PHONIBITIO

His manh

E 2

•L BY:

---

## Page 69

0326 P18P.159

R 112:907 F2B 75

DEA MIA:: FLO RIO

TO: DEA HOS WASHDC

8Ỳ

SECRET

HOS ATTNS EOIL

DIQS ATTHS PLS PASS TO REG 18 CARACAS R/O

MIAMI SEC-S-76-0-817(A)

ді:??

SUBJ, VENEZUELA

FILE NO. GFZB-75-8881

1: REFERENCE IS HADE TO SECRET CARACAS 1678 DATED 12 FEBRUARY

1976,

ABOVE FILE TITLE,

WHICH REGUESTED DIO TUFO ON RICARDO

MORALES, PRESENTLY RESIDIGO IN CARACAS ALLO VORKITS FOR A SENSITIVE

GOV AGENCY.

MORALES UAS AN EXEMPT COI. FOR MIAMI RIO. ORIQITILLY ESTABLISHED

AS SO 1-1-8062 BY S/A OCTAVIO GONZALEZ, PRESEUTLY SAIC SCSOTA D/O.

COI. VAS EXEMPTED QUE TO FACITE VAS AN ACTIVE CE FOR BIAL FBI

WORKING ON CUBAN TERRORISTS, ARD WAS PRIMANY WITRESS AGAIST ORLANDO

BOSCH IT FAROUS CUBAN POVER

TRIAL IN 1903.

Colo's liN: 33R LATER

CHANGED TO SG1-2-65570

CAI. PRESTiTLY IN CTIVE AT THE PIT RAO

DUE TO PERMANENT FOVE TO CARACIS TO TAKE UP OFFICIAL FOSITION VITHIN

GO WORKING FOR A SENSITIVE GOV COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

PRESELITLY IN CHARGE OF THE MIMPORT IN CARACAS AND PLAYS TO ACCUYRE

VEHEZUELAN CITIZENSHIP. COI. PRIMARILY VORKING FOR GOV CH CUBANS

_RESIDING IN CARACASO

5 ET B ICHES TALL 1950°S.

176 LBSO, WITH DARK HAIR.

CORALES FORNENLY TU

COI. HAS.I AUD IS NUISER A12-E97-777.

ACTIVATED ON C2/25/71 AT LIANI R/O, PRIMARILY FO? ILTELLIGENCE

VIOLATORS T HAÑI. COI, DID INITIATE G1-?1-0015,

MANUEL PENABAZ ET AL UNICH LED TO PURCHASE/SEIZURE OF SIX KILOS

COCAINE AD ARREST OF SEVEN DEFELDAGTS DURIGG 19720 COI, ALSO

PARTICIPATED IN GI-72-0166, CALANDO LAM DRID ET AL,

THIC:! RESULTED

I! SEIZURE OF SEVR! KILOS COCAINE AND ARREST OF FIVE EZFERDANTS

DURING 19720: C.IO TESTIFIED FOR COVSALLEUT AT BOTH TRIALS.

REF: PARAO QUIBER 3 OF CARACAS ICT?. NO PHOTOSRIPH OF MORALES

AVAILADLE IN REGION S.

COI. HAS SUNLALS VOLUNZCOUS INTOLLIOEICE

REPORTS TO WHO PAO ON AT LEAST 29 DIFFERENT INVESTIGATIOS,

THERErORE COLPIES OR R.POJO'S VILL OLY BE FORMANCED TO CAINCAS RIO

IF CEENED NECESSARY BY CARACAS M/Ợ.

SO6 OR TO CO TEAS COOLES CONFERY

CATACAS®

6

MORALES VAS EXTREMELY RELIABLE COI. FOR HINT RIO AND ANY

UTILIZATION BY CHRACAS RAO SHOULD BE

VITH CAUTIO: DUE TO C.B.'S"

PRESEUT STATUS LITHIN GOVERNMENT.

JOHN A LUID .IR

REGIONAL DIRFCTOR

---

## Page 70

INTEGRITO"

corre co--e 39- 2

SECRET

DUA

пістомы жотло.

ACTROM UMIT

LA15

ACTOMO

614.

8. 683822

GONN

STAFF PRECEDENG

FILE.

VR. UPSANT SECURY, ISN/LA

es/с62,

PAGE 31

TOR:1318482 FEB 26

IN 826512

CARA • 29076

-S.E. C R.E.T. 1316182 FEB 16

STAFF

CITE CARACAS 29876, 80.

TOS IMMECIATE SANTIAGO, MANAGUA INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, LAAMIAMI, BUÈNO!

RES.

VHLOFTY MHSPIKE

REFSE A. CARACAS 29865 (4 424723)

8. SANTIASO 33712/21 875993

1. USS§ HEADQUARTERS HAS FORMARDED TO CARACAS ADVANCE TEAM

NOTICE THAT USSS MIAMI REP RECEIVED REPORT ON 12 FEB T6 FROM

WEXTREMELY RELIABLE CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTI THAT ATTEMPT. TO BE

INFORMANT

DESCRIDED AS "VERY CLOSE" TO ORLANDO 3 O SCH AVILA CUSSS LATER

1.201-285723

IDENTIFTED SOURCE AS RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETES,

BOSCH

ALLEGEDLY ARRIVED CARACAS FROM MANAGUA THO DAYS AGO.

2.

REQUEST ACTION ADDRESSEES CHECK OF TRAVEL CONTROL

FOR FOSSIBLE CONTIRMATION BOSCH TRAVEL, CONSIDER MORE LIKELY

SOSGH HOULE BE TRAVELING WITH COMINICAN PASSPORT @86768 IN NAME

: 31-0:299292

PEDRO ANTONIO PÉNA.

3. TYLI WASCARLET-3, HHO FLANNED CONTÄCT BOSCH IN SANTIAGO

-NEXT MEER, SAIO HE SENT TELEGRAN TO SANTIAGO ACCOMMODATION

CROSS TELE COPY FOR

802-0285923

SECRET

DO SUS DISTERS

---

## Page 71

*3G.90078°

& DEC DISARIA DY

ONIUMIT MOTIPIRO.

TOTAL COPIES

SEGRET

COUN

, 01:

MUM DY

«асистой ву отнеА тна

IsTaks '76

ar

ON UNIT

RP.

FILE

VR.

от о

Т 683822

ELA9BT.

PAGE

82-02

TOR:1318487 FEB 76

ADDRESS LAST WEEK ASKING CONFIRMATION BOSCH WOULD BE AVILABLE.

NO REPLY YET RECEIVED, ADDRESS TO WHICH TELEGRAM SENT 158

SRIA, ADRIANA DELGADO

CASILLA ATT CORREO CENTRAL

SANTIAGO DE CHILE

FILER: 25606-695: 75-2

4. EZ IMPDET

IN 826512

CARA

29078

S

R

5'T.

---

## Page 72

(+) 1600-94-52J-275

falli

‹.'.

•1710K

d0 salut

it!:."

12:::

!

'CRIVIS INELERO MI..

•43

1608-54-8215 V7ccaT0dei006

Nn rife

334111

•COTTV'S

31009

-30t0 70019: 11711011

sulla pindi did

05-7194

SECHIPIO N

-..-,

Oi vissid

N:SS

---

## Page 73

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

" THE FOLLOWING

INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201.

EXTRACTFO FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT

MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED

FROM IP/FILES:

MORALES-NAVARETTE, RICARDO

201-0285923

SEX M

. DOB 14 JUN 39.

401

200-011-011/17

UFPA-01730

29 OCT 74

P3

MIAMI: NARC FINANCIER NARC

CAZADARES ATHE HUNTERSI WHO WILL DEPART FOR

CARACAS VENE BUT IST WANTS TO

REBOSO VICE MAYOR OF MIAMI

BECAUSE OF FRIFNOLY: ATTITUDE OF GOVM

NARE VIOLATORS SPECIFICALLY.

EXTRACTION

.. DATE 30

JUN 75.

-09297814

201- 2859023

SECRET.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

---

## Page 74

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFOKMATICN CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS

EXTRACTED FROM ANUTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORYING DAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT

MENT FROM WHICH

TH!S EXTRACT HAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED

FROM IP/FILES.

MORALES:

RICARDO

201-0285923

SEX M

100-609-004

0BD-87380

09 APR

75

FAI

P2

CUBAN EXILE "ACTIVE: IN CÜBAN COMMUNIFY.

"PEQUEST-

ED TO PROCEED TO DIST AT END OF NOV,

74 AND

SURSEQUENTLY TO NEW YORK CITY TO CONTACT

VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS

"DATE

-30 APR 75

09275878

Ah.

201-0285923

SECRET

-ER IMPOET CL BY 054979

---

## Page 75

SFCRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTOACT

JHE FOLLOWING

INFORMATISN CONCERNING THE SURJECT OF THIS 201

DOSSIER

HAS AFEN EXTRACTFO FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMIG

NAME TRACFS ARF CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU

MENT ERIM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORYATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJFCT AND SHOULO BE REQUESTED

FROM IPIFILES.

MARALES NAVARETTE. RICAÇDO

201-0285923

"SEX"M

201-0299292

D8D-57769

02 JUL 73

FBI

ASSASSINATION AT TFMPT

MADE AGAINST MORALES 25

MAY TSAY

MBR CF

ALPHA 86

7597,

DATE 05 FEB 75

09239409

261- 285923

SECREI

----------

E2. IMPRET CL BY 054979

---

## Page 76

14-00000

SECRET

OD DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCEENING

THE SUBJECT OF THIS: 201

DISSIER HAS. BEEN EXTRACTED FRUM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DU FILE.

PERSONS PERFORIING NAME.

TRACES ARE CAUTIUNED THAT THE DUCH-

MENT FROM WHICH IRIS'EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIOÑAÏ

INFURMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED

FROM IP/FILES:

201-0288 RICARDO

SEX M

201-0733547

LX-0389.1

20 JAN 74

P7

RES USÄ, FLÄ, MIAMI. G-ZLE IN. CUBA, CURRENTLY

IN MIAMI WHERE IS LABELED INFORMER TO FBI BY

LOCAL CUBANS AND IS BEING HUNTED.

PERSONÄLITY IN

IRVING RICHARD POYLE 1201-

07335471 DEBRIECING JUL 73

DATE 13

DEC

09217.354

201-28$923

---

## Page 77

EXTRACT ANO CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFI

CATION

•теліти ото

SOURCE INFORMATION

oate

of taro.

MORALES NAVARETTE, RICARDO

201-285923

SEX

DOB ?

201-299292

•. 080. -57769

02 JUL 73

C.!T

?

?

ASSIS NO AGE OFTENR, MADE AGAINST MORALES 2S

ABR. OF ALPHA

-R. 730712028

Indicate The Subject; Project Or

201 File No. In Wilch This

Foru Is To Be Filed.

günJEeT oR 201 fläDe.

Middle)

8000

0. 00

867

SECRET

202.285923

FEE

coni

17.088

---

## Page 78

based on UFM 4836, 2 Oce 73

200-11-11/7

SECRET

eo Alden

1/ISR

-Б-03

REQUEST FOR REGISTRIC LONE SH

Est. 5045

Based Ons UFAA-dS33

8 x09 72

filed: 200-11-11/7

RECORD

copp

13 June 7 NICOS • 113

LUTELIEENCE STAFE

.8

JUNE

1973

Mor (2a01. Colo. Ma)

MORALES Navarrette,

Ricardo

10160l

DATE OF BIRTH

14 June 1939

PLACE

OF DIATH

Havans,

CITIZENSAIS

Cuba

Cuban Paroled Into US

RESIDENCE

Miant, Florida

PRESENT CUPLOYER

OCCUP.AT.1OM

GRANCO

GRAMCO Representative

ADDITiONAL

POiNTIFYING DATA

BNDD consideres subject in category "ext BEgalätra ate hashi en ray the

SEND FIELD CARDS TO: 872, U FA

highest echelons

TP/ INDEX REMARKS

STATION MOULD APPRECIATE A RUN-DOWN OF HOS INFO ON SUBJECT BECAUSE OF HIS, "SPECIAL

CATECORT"

206/13

IPIETO REMARKS'

NAI

PER

3 6/6/13 RAB

NARC Did: Nicker

TO:

WH/ NARC & WH/C/OS

RESULTS

TO:

DIX KOUKES RADI

•I SRI NÉMBER

37,493

DATE

2 July 1973

201

NUMBLY

201-0285923

1.

No information in addition to that already known

to requestor..

2.

ISR has no record of current operational interest in Subject

who Is hereby registered in ISR to BNDD,

Miant.

21 JUN 1973

002276

3811. 12).

SECRET

---

## Page 79

nor.

graemere

а но.

SECRET

(onon Fittód, 1=).:

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERÈNCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

DOC.

ATION OF RICORO CORY

SOURCE IN ORMATION:

ATE OR INTO:

VALUATION:

Cooter

MURAGES

NAVARETTE,

201-285923

SEX H

DO0 ?

CIT T

OCE

SUMMARY

OF INFO

201-299292

DBD - 55038

27 APR. 73

FBI

R 7306071448

Indicate The Subject, Project Os

,201 File No.

In Which this

Form Is To Be Filed.

juicet-on s0i (land, Ptret, middley

201-285923

867

SECRET

17-881

---

## Page 80

PRIOR TO FLUNC

and forward lö. ip ADd

8. Destroy lionl corer snool. unlass ll ricords

signiticans action lakon or comments requir.

me preservation

ROM:

IPi

FAROS ROBEST,

HIP / AU

EXI. 4239

.то

ROOM

.то

ROUTING AND RECORO SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

TO: ACTION BRANCH:

Il. frio no and folio snown are not procior.

insoil piopor to no, baton and loi maid

document pa:¡pIAN.

TO ALL ADDRESSEES

TRI IN SECTION I ON RACIS I AAPTTORGIATE

.COMMENTS

H3-585

CASO

TUBS CIT

OFFICERS

ANTIALS

Sturitte

C1:

MEEMED

21959

1217

13.

he c

CIRASIA-6

17.

1P/F8

ABSTRACT

TRACE

ROUEST

ASOР'в.

FILE TITLE

¡TUE NUMBER IMPINARY COOR)

dr 18512.3

DO UMINARATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

19 1r72

UFAA 04640

SECRET

1NA22

186:

---

## Page 81

DISPATCH

VISH TUN

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

'PROCISUNG ACTION

NO ENDALING MOUTATO

DONT QUALHAD DISE

ICAN-AUDGE ENDANING

IX FOr KN

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

PBRUMEN/AMDESK-1

ON AQUIRTO - REFERINCES

Action Required:. For your information

References:

a.

UFAA -4533, 8 November 1972

b.

UFAW-1590; 17 Novembe: 1972

1:

COS met with a representative of LNERGQ of 22 November 1972

in an attempt to clarity the confusing issue over ANDESK-1 as outlined in

reference A. The substance of LNERGO's remarks are as follows:

LNERGO ascertained from conversations with ÄMDESK-l that the latter

, had been in Venezuela some time during the summer, of early fall of 1972

on' Gramco business.

During his visit to Venezuela, AMDFSK contacted

his old friend CIRASH-6. In the course of this contäct, CIRASH-6

evidenced an interest in re-establishing contact with BKHERALD. in

Washington. Subsequently, AMDESK-i, through the good offices of his

superior in Gramco, arranged this contact which eventually took place.

LNERGO. has since been advised by ÄMDESK-1 that he (AMDESK-1) did not.

accompany CIRASH-6 to Washington.

2. The problem, therefore, appears to be that AMDESK-1, for

reasons not clear to us, reported to LNAGON that be ard an unidentified

high ranking Venezuelan Government official had been in Washington

together, and he (AMDESK-l) met with a BKHERALD officer. LNERGO

mentioned that they have always found AMDESK-l honest and objective,

but there is always the possibility that he could have misrepresented the

information he passed to 'LNAGON, perhaps to gin some advantage for

himself with that service. In any event, LNERGO prefers not to pursue the

matter further with AMDESK-l as they are reluctant to become involved in

/ continued/

Distribution:

3 - C/WHD

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY

DISPAICH SYMBOL AiD NUMBIR

UFAA - 4540

SECKET

•12 December 1972

IMES FILE MUTASER

201-285323

---

## Page 82

CONTINUATION OF

DỊ: PATCH

CLASEIDREATION

SROR.

SORRIT

OL-ASSE MUMBLE

UFAA-4640

what could be a misunderstanding between the Station and LNAGON.

The Station also prefers not to raise the issue again with LAGON

as tha le to, time AiDFSK.I related the details of bis contacts

with BKHERALD in confidence, and to pressure hin, now for more

facts would only tend to alienate him with LNAGON.

SWEENE

20:- 285193

0M* 53a

160$

UAR PREVIOUS EDITION

CLAADITICATION

S SEGET

CONTINURO

---

## Page 83

SECRET TELEPOLEN

DISPIACH NO

• UFAN-1590

FILE HO

oboo-l1:1187--201-235923

DATE

• 17 MOVEMBER 1972

INDEX

• HỌ

FILM

' но

- CHIEF OF STATION, UH/MIAMI

INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

ACLION

REFS.

• HONE

- CHIEF, VESTERS HEMISPHERE DIVISION

RYBAT TYPIC PLAHABYSS/ ANDESK-1

-SEE PARA 4o BELON

UFAA -4533

Ló HOS UNABLE IDENTIFY ALLEGED BXCROWN INDIVIDUAL

WHO INVITED: AMDESK-1 PA-LI TO VISIT VASHISGION CIRCA

10-I1 OCT 72, NOR CAN WE IDENTIFY HIGH RANKING

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL"' A-l CLAIMS HE ACCONPABIED

TO WASHINGION. STAFFER BEARING. SOME RESEMBLANCES TO

IDENTITY B$ REF; HAS STATED THAT HE HAS NOT BEEN 19

CONTACT WITH A-I AND STAFFER'S OFFICIAL FILE INDICATES

HE REVER SERVED IN CONGO. VITHOUT MORE EXPLICIT INFORNATION

IDENTITY & OF REF CANNOT BE IDENTIFIED.

2. REVIEY OF A-I FILE INDICATES NO BACROWN CONTACT

VITH A-1 FOR SEVERAL YEARS AND NO INFO RE NEW BXCROWN

CONTRACT FOR A-l. IF LNAGON CAN PROVIDE FURTHER DETAILS

ÓN ALLEGED OENTACTS AND CONTRACI VE WILL BE GLAD TO

CHECH IT OUIS

3O 'RE PURA A, RES-SINCE LAERGO AVARE LMAGON HAS

REGISTERED A-I AS SOURCE THIS IS MATIER FOR LHERGO AND

LNAGON TO RESOLVE.

4: RE PARA S, REF--IN ORDER AVOID MISUNDERSTANDING

SUGGEST STATION DISCUSS SITUATION FRAMKLY WITH LNERGO,

SEGRET TELEPOUCH.

---

## Page 84

SECRET TELEPOUCH. PAGI THO

POINTING OLLI THAT VE HAVE BEEN INFORMED THAT A-I IS

ELA MINE S'AI HE IS ¿I TOUCT diTH BXCROWN, AND THAT

STATION HISHES TO MAXE CERTAIN LNERGO UNDERSTANDS NO

SUCH CONTACS EXISTS.

So E2; IMPDEI.

OTIS C. VIGEANT

DISTRIBUIION

3-COS, WHINIAMI/BY TAPE

Distribution;

C/WH/NARC

1

WH/COG/Chrono

1

WIl/COG/OS

1

- Originator

ORIGINATED BY William Sturbitts

C/ NH/ COG/OS

COORDENATED BY E. AH/CAse

Andersen (in draft)

RELEASED BY Lawrence Sternfield

SECRET TELEPOUCH

---

## Page 85

ROUTINE AND RECORD SHRET

INS: OUE TRINS

111 32

PRIOR 1O FLING

fill in Sarl. d. On back

Dolach bAco Mas

and formard to IP:ADB

2.Dostroytrontcorosahool.unleis.it rorards

significant action liton or commonts resus.

ing preservation.

FROM

TO ACTION BRANCH

" full no end diste stuian aro nos propier.

eatent peccartio-no baidi and-parmard

dorumans lo IPIAN

1P;

J0 ALi ACRESSEES

""3

COMMETTS

SURE GIS

DatE

7001

ISR

TO

Wil Feb.

C/COG

1. 19!

Stirbitt

13

Hov

Cry le i plainte

WAH/NARC

FI/ISR. BU-5

FP/AN3

GT-Y

15.

IP/FI

TRACE

2R0U85T

berties in

4 іс

co-ful of deat to see.

6 Jul 73

LA

Answered by

81 Jul 1973

11 to 12: Please recalssify

this docusent

to

201-285923

and return to FI/ISR.

15- Dilit

Peline tile

DOC MICRO. SER.

this ei

151-285323

NOV 1 0 1972

ap

MICROFILMED

201-255923

AESTRACT F

MOT 60S

акометі Баті

are fascin

INA 00531

a irst eas

---

## Page 86

14-00000

SECRET

TFLEPOUCH

RYPAT

DISP NO

UFA8 - 4533

FILE NO

ze8-1 -1 117- 261-255923

3P

DATE

.

• 8 NOVEMEER 1972

INDEXING

.

NO

MICROFILM

NO

DOC. MICRO. SER.

10 .

.

CHISF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISIOn

NOV 101972

FROM

CHIEF OF STATION, WHAMIAMI

MICROFILMED

SUBJECT

CRYBAI TYPIC FLMHABYSS/AMDE SK-1

1. ON 2 OCTOBER 1972 L NAGON/MIAMI REGISTERED ANDESK-I

CA-18 (201-285923) (IDENTITY-AD IN THE NARCOTICS SOUPCE REGISTRY S

ITS INFORMANT. SUESEQUENT INVESTIGATION BY STATION RE-

VEALED THAT A-I HAS PEEN OF INTEREST TO LNERGO SINCE 1953-

WHEN STATION TURNED HIM CVER TO THEM: WHEN THIS FACT CALLED TO

LNAGON'S ATTENTION, LATTEP COMMENTED THAT NOT CALY DID THEY

REAL IZE

A-1 VAS LNERCO CONTACT BUT THEY ALSO WERE AWARE THAI A-I

WAS RECENTLY IN ICUCH WITH EXCRONN.

2: LNAGON EASED THIS ASSUMPTION ON INFCRMATION WHICH THEY

AIM A-! FE CUIDED THEM, MAMELY: A-I ADUISED LNAGO MEGAS

INVITED BY EXCROIN AT LATTER'S EXPENSE IC VISIT LASHLGICH

AEOUT 10-11 COT CEER 1972 TO SPEND FED DAYS THERE- ACCORDING

LNAGON, A-I TQD THEM HE ACCOMPANIED HIGH RANKING VENEZUELAN GOVERN-

MENT OFFICIAL UNIDENTIFIED. IR NASHLIGION. SCMIENT: 1E TRUER

OFFICIAL POSSISLY COULD HAVE LEEM ORLANC CARGIA VASCUEL.?

WHILE IN WASHENGTON, A-I CLAIMS HE SAN THE CHIEF OF THE LATIN

AMERICAN DESX* OF ENCROAN CILENT ITY-ES. A-1 IS FOSITIVE CE.

DENTITY-S'S LAST NAME EECAUSE HE SAID. HIS LAST NAVE IS THE

SAME AS: HIS: A-I MENTICVER HE IS SCHEELLED RETON TO MASHISTON TO

SEE IPENT ITY-E ACADY IN JANUARY 1923.

LAGON UIERSTAYOS A-1

i*::

52171183

jolllias!

.. i...

101-2559123

i :

---

## Page 87

PAGE? UFRA-ASS3 SECRET.

EATCAIVINE MITA EXCROY" ESCALSE HE SAITS FOUS YEAR CONTRACT IITH

EXCROÓN INSTEAD OF TO YEARS AND DANTS FIORCIN'S ASSISTANCE

IN CETAININE UOSO CITIZENSHIP. ACCCARTIE A-I, IDENTITY-E

LAS "THE CIO OF THE CIO CE A-I'S GRCUP IN THE CONGO IN

1964 IP 1965." LMACCH STÁTED A -I USED THE INITIALS:

"C" ANE: "O" ALD IS MOT SURE IF HE MEANT COMMANOING CFFICER

OR CASE CFFICER •

3. ALL ATTEMPTS EY STATICN TO AMPLIFY ABOVE

HAVE POCUED NEGATIVE. LECCH IS RELUCTANT TO

QUESTION A-! AGALY ON HIS ALLECES CONTACTS WITH. EXEROWN AS

THEY HAVE EXPORTANT NAROCTICS TRIAL SOMENCING VEEN & NCUENEES

1972 IN WHICH A-I IS CCOPERATINE HIT: LNAGON AND THEY DO NOT

LANT IC DO ANYTHING AT THIS TIME THAT

MIGHT UPSET: HIM.

ACCORCING LNACC:, A-I RELATEE ALOVE CETAILS CONCERNING HIS

CONTACT WITH ENCEON IN CONFIDENCE AND THEY LELIEVE THAT TO

PRESSURE HIM NO: FOR MORE ISTALLS MIGHT ALIENATE HIM WITH

LVAG ON.

4. AS FOR ESGISTEPING A-I IN THE NARCOTICS SOURCE

PCISTRY, LNACON STAISS THEY DO NOT INTEND TO CONFER WITH

LNERGO AND NECOT LATE WITH THEM HON A-I IS TO BE HANDLED.

LNACON PLANS TO CONTINUS TO UTILIZE A-T AS THEY HAVE IN PAST

LNAGON COMMENTED IT WAS THEIR UIDERSTANDING THAT WHENIWO

OR MORE U.S. COVERNMENT ACENCIES HAVE AN INTEREST IN THE

SAME INDIVIDUAL THAT FACSON'S COLE LY THE NARCOTICS SOURCE

RECISTAY WAS PRELY TO ADVISE THE INTERESTED PARTIES CE THE

SITUATICS ASE IT WOULD EE LEFT TO THE CISCHITION OF THOSE

V.S. COVERNIEMT ACENCISS NO THE FATTER SUCILO DE RESOLVEE.

STATION LIAISCH CFFICER ADVISES LNACCH THAT THEIR UNDERSTANEINC

OF EXCARIN'S PQLE IN TIS SCUCE SOCISTRY LAS ECARECT QUT THEY

HERE ALSO SETINTES THAT•ONE TAIN CUATOSE CFITHE SCURCE REGISTAY

MAS IC ELIMINATE MTER-NOERCY COOPSTITIC! CUER TITULANTS ANG

---

## Page 88

14-00000

PAGE З СРАД 293З СЕСЕ ЕТ

THAT IN ODER FOS THE RECISTRY TO DE USEFUL IT SCULO TAVE

THE FULLEST COOPERATICH OF ALL PAPTICIPAIING ACENCIES,

THERWISE THE REGIGIRY WOULD LE WORTHLESS EXERCISE. LÜGGEN

WAS ALSSLADVISED THAT LIERGO IS AWARE THAT LEACO:: HAS

REGISTERED A-I IN THE SCURCE REGISTRY AND IS EXPECTING IC

HEAR FROM LIAGON LO THAT NEGOTIAT ICKS COULD EE WORKED. CUT

HCA A-I IS TO EE HANDLED: LNAGON CONVENTED THEY CULD TAXE

CARE OF THE SITUATION IN THEIR CÜN MAY. SCOMMENT: LEACEN

EFFICER ADVISED STATION LIAISON OFFICER JHAT LNACON

HAS NO. INTENTION TO CONTACT LNERGC.)

SINCE A-I IS SPREADING WORD TO LIAGON THAT HE IS

IN

TUCH WITH ENCROWN,

IT IS NATURALLY ASSUMED THAT HE HAS

DONE SAME WITH LNERGE AND, IF THAT IS CASE, STATION

MIGHT FE IN EIT OF A EIND WITH LATTER SERVICE AS STATICN

HA'S NÓT. DISCUSSED SITUATION WITH THEM. : IN ADDITIC!, SINCE

STATION IS UNAWARE DE ANY POSSIELE TALKS EETWEEN A-I AND EXCROWN,

STATION LIAISON OFFICER NATURALLY DENIED THE CHARGE WHEN

LNAGON BROUGHT IT US.

IN ORDER. PROTECT STATIC! LIAISON

EQUITIES AND MAINTAIN OUR CREDIBILITY, WOULD APPRECIATE

ALY COMMENTS HOS COULD PROVIDE WHICH MAY ASSIST STATION

IN THIS MATTER.

HILL IAM P. MCSWEENEY

CISTRIEUTION

• ' VIA TELEPCUCH

3 - C/AHD

E2

INPrET

N- SISM

SECRETS.

C

---

## Page 89

4-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH

RYBAT

PISP NC

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:

CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

IDENTITY-AS RICARDO MOR ALES NAVARRETRE

IDENTITY-BE (FNU) MORALE

S, DESCRIBED BY

ANDESK-I AS MEXICAN/AMERICAN

E2 IMPDET:

SECRET

DOC. MICRO, SER

NOV 1 0 1972

MICROFILMED

=

901-255923

it.?

yis

---

## Page 90

1 МАліти

DAPILO ROO DENISE

Close Postera Lauluphoro Diviaton

H30

1800

CAN WiTH LeGE, N186

1n Traces on Th! наСо Іся доʼОва...

WIME

Đ.

UFAA-BALD

00728-04130

ROSESESCOA SOSTRIASS REO MIBES OL LITAPA and LNACON

sources lo laidgartara vith a roquor. Lor roglotratlon

Bad traces:

?thourh rafarances bass cardod (as drug

sources),

tharo la coma additional itormilos fron the

Ficos in tia attaclud menon unich ain not included lu

roterences. Torolcio, you say want to re-indes this

Laforestion to the susas.

Paule A, Homicit

DUPLICATE COPY

FOR CROSS FILING IN

291: 285923

CA8/C-023,

tarawita

CAS/D-089,

borenith

DL38P11482028

3 - C4103,

MiD; U/atta 1& a sereolta

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

Tho following action is

austeriod: Linesee

Signus:

2.0. 8530 - Vail STeg

Note: If destruction.

oite.

reasons and coordinate

1f appropriate.

ROSS

RECORD COPY FLED 201-294243

13 INCINT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND AÜMBER

MRAA

= CLASSUTICATION

SMan

DATE

25 acrobar: 1978-

NOS fIlE: MUMBIR

101: 244713

---

## Page 91

14-00000

titter

UFAS 4435

3 Cot 72

200-11-11/7

Docusent glves list of names of 7 BNDD scices.

Ricardo MORALES Navarrete

alid "Don Juax"

DPOS 14 Jure 39, Havana, Cuba

Paroled lato U.S.

OCC: Granco rep.

Area of activity: not stated

"subject is corsidered by BNDD in catezory "exempt" C.I."

whichls highly sensitive within their org.

His name is

Hown only to the highest echelons.

MORALES 201 I11e

indicates he has been known to have advertised FbI and CIA

affiliation.

We would appreciatr a run-down of Hqs info

on subj because of his "special"' category."

SERIET

---

## Page 92

14-00000

ii..

Nа8а n0 105

CLASSIFICATION OF DECONO COPY

пос.

SOUNCI CArPTONYA

SOURCE INFORMATION...

- DATE OF INTO.

EVALUATION.

TEXT ON EXTriNiT CASTO CiTO

-Il applicablo,

MURALES NAVARKÉTE, RICARDO

201-215923

SEXM DOS

JUN 39

CURA, HAVANA

CIT USA

200-011-011107

UFAA- 04436

02 OCT 72

P2

UCE GHAMCO REP

AKA DUN JUAN

StiEA OF ACT-NOT STATED

INFO MUST NUT BE USED IN NAME TRACE WI OUT

CONSULTING FILE

NOCHZP872

CORR CARD

R. 730L301329

Indicate The Subject, Project Or

201 File No. In Which Tb1s

Form Is To Be Filed.

SUOJECT Or 101 (lane, firor, Middlo)

201-

285923

• 867 00

SECRET

---

## Page 93

14-00000

DOс.: 0740001

SECRET ,A,

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DATE de DOC.

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICA: 10%

PILE GRASSIPICATION DR DSCONO CONT

doc.

SOURCE. INFORMATION

SOURCE CATPTONTY

DATE.OR 1u80.

BYALUATION

TEXT

EXTRACT. (A

No."

.1.8

cablos

MURALES NAVARRETEA RICARDO

201-285923

SEX N COB?

CIT?

JC ?

& VENEZUELA

INFC MUST NOT BE USED

IN

NAME TRACE

WHOUT CONSULTING FILE

200-011-612107

HVCA-18943

21 JUL 72

UFAB72#ZP

R 7210050862

Indicate. The Subject, Project. Or

201 File No:

In Which This

ForI. Is To Be FIled.

ésdala).

203-285923

тони 867

2-88

SECRET

---

## Page 94

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

TOTTE

ADVANCE CODY

19018=

CLASSIRISO PRESSAGE

SECRET

TA COPS lot on i don

DAG A TSIDE UNITIA

35

ACTIONI

WH8

ACTION NO

444

FILE, V

5/AN

C1/OPS, cl

642128

21Jw N 642128

SECRE I ZIITBOL JUN T2 STAFF

CITE

CARACAS 19581

WAMIAMI INFO DIRECTOR.

REF? HVCA-18872

1.

SUBJECT OF REF, RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE,

PRESENTLY IN CARACAS, AND CONTACTED CIFENCE-4.

MORALES

REITERATED STORY HIS IMPORTANCE IN DRUG OPERATIONS,

INCLUDING FACT HIS SALARY RECENTLY DOUBLED.

2. MORALES BOASTING GETTING TO POINT WHERE IT

SUSPICIOUS. APPRECIATE WH/MIAMI CONFIRMATION RE EMPLOYMENT

MORALES BY EITHER LNERGO OR LAGON. HE AGAIN TOLD CIFENCE-A.

TRUE NAME OF CIGOAL-S AS BXTRUST AGENT WITH SIFA CARACAS.

3. FILE: 201-284816 AÑD 281-380785. GP-1.

SECRET

CS COPY

SECRET

201-

5923

21.24.04:1972

---

## Page 95

pia

PR:OR TO RUING

Fili sa S147. 2 on back Delach back flap

and forward lu HID.

3

Destroy liont corer sheet unless se records

aprilican: achor taken es comments inquir.

lag pirservation

FROM.

AS TRUST TO ACTION BRANCH

l' tito no and lisle 86: urn 880 808 380;08

insert proper tile ue belure aid lorraid

ducument lo RID "":

RID!

SCOTT JUDITS

IP/AR

"IXo 1232)

CY-360'

GA-50

JUBE GIZ.

ROOM

NO

DATE

MECEINRO

2,3 2hd 18:2

22JVM

TO. ALL ACDRESSEES

PiLL IN SECTION• ON DACH IS ARDA-TONE"

COMMENTS

LITIALs

20.

_=.

Cin

5.

6.

8.

9.

10

C4/2/parama

12.

13.

6

17.

KATHI

- Aee para 4l re

MiNertney.

Me NERTNER LAS

CIGOAL-/

Babur

7 TO 14: PEdASE MARE

1 261-284516 (CIGCAL-S)

3) 201-360985 (CIFENCE-4)

JHANK Yeu

(P)

RID. FI

THACE

FICUEST

INDER

8100

FILETITLE

TITO-MORS DAMART CODE.

201 - 2359212;20-

DOWNERS" DATE

MEN. SUNDER

9-pee 19?2 MYCA 19872

SECRET

---

## Page 96

DUO

FiGH

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Wii/Miani

Chief, Western Henisphere Divisica

Chief ol Station, Caracho

SURECT

O Ricardo MORALES Navarrete

ACTION ATONERIO SUTRENCIS

CASUATION

SECRET

PROTISTSO MIRES

RATED ME DONE.

DO QUIRIE BOSES

OMIT GUILHID DELE

CAN NOGI HADITOR

1.

On approximately 5 March 1972, a Station asset, CIFENCE-4,

while acting in his

cover capacity had

occasion to detain and question

one Ricardo MORALES Navarrete, a Cuban resident of Miami.

Morales N.

told CIFENCE-L that he, Morales, is employed by

INERGO from whom he receives a salary of US$700

per month. Morales said

that be vas er route to Colombia on a drug case it the time. During the

conversation Morales admitted to CIPENCE-h. baving been responsible for a

killing in Florida.

CIFENCE-4 reported to the Station the above, as well as stating

that Morales has an extremely poor reputation in the Cuban commnity,

where he is prone to tell nearly anyone willing to listen of his affiliation

with INerGo, with the inplication that his employer sanctions his

activities.

Moraies also told CIFENCE-4 that a Cuban (true name of CIGOAL-S)

Who works with SIFA in Caracas is an agent of BKTRUST.

5.

Attached is a copy of the reentry permit of Morales, as well as

a clipping frem the Miami press relating to the killing which Morales

allegedly confessed to having committed.

w, ni and chas de

6. The above is for the information of Station WH/Miami and further

action as deemed appropriate.

No coordination with INERCO in Caracas has

been effected due to security considerations involving CIFENCE 4,

EDGAR B: MARTEGANI

LeT

ASS REFERENT I

Z085 39

01- 300%

Attachments: h/w

2.

Newspaper clipping

Morales reentry permit (copyies Cuat

Distribution:

= COS, W/Miami v/att. -Te rüt Perch

/waD v/. att.

DISPATON, STMBOR ANO NUMBER

HYCA- 18872

CLASTUFICATION

SECRET

DATE

9 June 1972

MOS FILE NUMBER

1201-2859.23

---

## Page 97

1309,

Hospital Jackson Memorisl, 310 rall

guientoies Dielemone d de 1969.

MO. JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU, del 52

Solf. Cuarta calle, Misml.

Fiorids, casado con Niería

Castazo, la cual essí squí presente, deciaro lo sio

picaie: Nací en Palma Sortano, Orienie, ea Cuba,

193i Yo tengo 32 años de odado Me

casé el 10 de Marzo de 1983 en Miamil, Floridi.

To.no-.soy un

ciudsdano de

Estados, Unicos, Yo soy,

1 residenie, y rengo una hija, Elizabeir la cial cuna

súrá claco años de

cdad el 24 de diclemane; la ell

sicisagut,-ea este Hosplul, Jackson Memorial

•del propósito de hacer estas diciaraciares se debe

il techo que la

poilca la perminio que pasea rarios

días, y la genia que intentó quitarme la vida escó afuero

en la

calle,

libres.

El 22 de noviembre, airededor de las 8.39 de la nuche,

& mặs tres

cuadras de mi casa, yo estaba caminaro

so 5 me bajé de la acera en la lavenids y ¿a Sejunda

callé, en is

traste

seccióa del Sol!., cuando oña aiguien lla -

"Aisa", y miré para

ver quien era, y entono

cos so sená que eilos me disparaban, y jo vílos aro

mas con stienciadores.

Yo vi a

Ricardo

Morales Navarrete, y di

estaba

es .i. Crotroles impala

1965, de dos puertas, arcarlo

No con dos luces de cóla. Estada situsdo en el medio

de ii calle..

Ese hombre, Ricardo Mora'es Navarrose essaba es

el asterio de airís.

en

la. lado legulerdo

El sería un

¿esi: Más, con un silesciador,. el cual dispará balas

Ca:ure 456

Dira sombre essaba manejando, y jo lo conozco de

resida pero no sé sù nombre verdadero. Lo lamaseca

èi apodo de

''El Gallego''.

Este hombre, E: Gallego,

recud leas pistoja

que parecía una .. Berera, con un sio

ectatador adapiado:

ardos me disisraras. Yo recibr 15 heridas de be-.

Is y al pertoracioses.

La sercor hombre éstaba en el carro. llamado Pris-.

cisco. Rodriguez al que spodan "El Mejicano", el Cual

su disparida

yo lucacico a Ricardo Morales Navarrere como al

-sio botabre que restiticó para el Gobiernio en el fil-

Cù de Osarão Dosito

¿Dos dais antes yo do va ei con est oia personas

S: Callego, obsenárdome es frente de mi casa: Elios

es-¿ban da 0iro carro, la Poita.

Yó conozco a este tiorales Navarreso de La Mitana:

és era jude Asisicase de lä Seccíón del G-2 en el Aeros

¿to de faraño Bojeros, Facara, Cuba.

Yo no he tablado con el, pero arro hombre, Eddy

Ferrániez Pis, hace casi dos mesis, vino a mi casa:

a eso de la liza de la mediujada para darme un mensa-

je

de Ricardo Morales Navarreie y del Mejicano Fran

cisio iciriguez Tamayo los Cuales

no querian-ger

mis enemigos, que el enemigo era Badíst, y que debía-

mos ser amigos porque

las cosas iban a cambiar.

Yo le dja que no quería recer ninguna amistad con

genie que irabajaba para fidei Castro.

La noche que Eddy Ferrsíar Pla vino a mi casa,

de estaba con otro hombre, Roguio Pernández, el curi

es la vendedor de la Plrestone.

Yo seago uns baia alojada cerca de mi corazón y die-

se que ser éxtraños con un aparaio especial, según mé

:"di'o ci intdico.

-Ea estos tres-damos días ro me he sentido ble:.

y camo tergo tidos éstos dros en mi cuerpo se que eso

soy en'tria mala

condición y me siento como que voy.

a morr, y si micro, no quero norir. sin que este grin

país essalgue a esos asesinos, un cuales son reíastos

para-roda la sociedado :

tiago estas deciaraciones complesimente conselerés

de sús contenidos, sin couesiú y "' ni propia-y ilbre.

volinsido

He tenido asencila ará ca puro a vir el dolor, y ao

me: siento, bajo la Intiticaía di suto.: droga, pero me

sleato muy dormal y lago esco de raciones por ii?

razoses antes expuestas"

Tesisos: César Camacho, Pelpe Tri

Estado de la Florida -

Cordado de Dade

Jurado y susertio gate mí esú: dãs a. enemire di

1963 d-las 5s0 Pall.

regresa, Nocio Piblico.

es CO?Y

201.285923

---

## Page 98

N

0371516

Faró no.

Pecado darios"riste

Mari, Florida

¡àie co diario

3u53 142_1939

Black

DIDAR ACATO ANO MARES

Ruba

Black

--.

secadte.

5

1e 9 190m

TAMIT TIPIARS

JaTasy 252 1973

Dese ano docar-an 08 1910-08 prest

DATE ANO LOGATION OF OFFICE

VALIDITY OF PERMIT

VALIONTO CATEDORE TO

DATE ANO TOCATION DE SATICE

MGNATURE PENALIDATING ORFICEA

TRE DITALICATIDE OFTACI

137:516

•MITH ATION:

NATUY

ATIO

RESTRICTIONS

VALO RON ..D ONTINTRYONRY

È AUTII ATRAS.

docenare a nos islas tos resu

parary ábronco atart ravoires tono

Albara

Contera

China

Cuba

•Kores

Outor Mangaño

Vier-Na.

The abono restaron o

mainos es to the toloverg

TiƠNG

Ricarse

4:890.

T. Sesundo apellido

22 NO

de ox-evicion

ander

inedo nomiro

.N°

05206-

• Nu do Cejuis

coo. : Na

Nacionalidad cas No. de Pisior.

Vordedor!

C9020d

1237.519

•LL Autorización MAi Lugar de epedon en

no Dirección en Venézuela ess-n, - 5.0

lotel Turanaco, Caracas.=

17 trasesorate

DIEN

1 031:172

087-3.01005.

.ini

salida

106-0657413

---

## Page 99

4-00000

ly estavariti;

GUBA

75..8802078

PROBSONGO

MIZITART TO IRTRATIDATE NADADA CRARORE DE ELA AUT

as ena anatarão

ts de in rio ilio reinos, o si 000 000

INSTRAT-ON OMISETAL BUTTORTO MIDATO OU CANAL HEAC

89 арраодопив

asai enliselion 1100.1, proas for d18

os intornational rose

18181206178. OresinoTe coeiores

maring sto sanál.

тра вочитго оратл

7780 16 80

mas cor a filanlly portlenens setuoon

una canal prosioa."

• of srora fon

•8800 Ou1dn

mesmo mais rosinelre sna. panara

conal matter.

enchery o rugere les parana

INTONIOI OPPICZAL DANISS MTEMONS MANCADO LINE

SOROCA ALTAS LATIN An SpARRAs 1597 PiT 82 APO TO TA

paro, aid the sararasnation

покол. ву:

FOIS, DeX 80 (LA) 23 ApR76

3

---

## Page 100

4-00000

CLASSION

TO Or 00.

rile a100

лет. то DNANCH O

orsraor Os16. -

•ASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

PERTORZEAT MOTIOTTO

- DISSERA BY 3

Turo 5006

D RID COPY

FILE VS, AFT, WHICOG 8, CUSS, CULCA

ADVANCE COPY

Dionero

TOTAL COPIES

FLPROCLCTION PROMIBITED

UMIt

TiME

10J:8? 74855

SE CP'E T 19ÏSAZZ CITE J'WAVE 4997 (INSHURST ACTING)

DIRECTOPBINFO KINSHASA

CHEPPlE/WITHRUSH/POPUMEN

1. DURING DEBRIEFING, JORGE SILVA PEVEALED THAT COL.

(FNU) DENAP, CO STH COMMANDOS TALKED WITH RENEBGARCIA (EX

WITHRUSH PILOT NOW FLYING WITH AIP. CONGO ABOUT RECPUITING

PEPUMEN COMMANDOS (SG

7? "/)9":?:ZNP THOSE WHO WOFACT

TRAINED. GRACIA PEPOPTEDLY WROTE

PICHA?) MOPALES,

(201-235923), ONCE CONSIDEPED FOP WITHUSH ADMIN/SURVIVAL,

TO COMPILE A LIST OF RECRUITABLE PERSONNFLO

2:* ABOVE FPOBABLY KNOWN BY KINSHASA AND IS FYI.

BT

SECESI

---

## Page 101

14-00000

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

NEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, SOD/AB/OPS/3

ATTENTION

285923

• The file or

.1s cancelled

and closed in CI/DA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to.""

Indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use

of Subject.

Please refer to CI/OA senorandu dated 28 Novenber 1965.

it will be necessary to furnis

/8/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

1005

691 a

SECRET

181

....

---

## Page 102

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR IMFORMATION AND REVIEN

Illison

18 Novenber 19:5Ja2

TO:

FROM:

SOD/AF/OFS/3- B.F. Canbino

CHIEF, C1/0A

/s/ Edward P. Brown

/ 201 - 285923

AHDESK/2

IN ORDER THAT

FURTHER CRISIDERATION

WAY BE GIVEN

YOUR

REQUEST FOR REPROVAL

THIS CASE.

THAT

YOU FURNISH

THIS OFFICE

THE INFORMATION

CHECHED

BELOR.

OR SENIOR INFORMATION AS SCO CATIO.

IS REQUESTED

PRO

§YASAID DOSSITO

• COLLATERAL

INFORMATION

FIELO TRACES

R 1

TRACES

OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

RESULTS OF TECHMICAL INTERROGATION

GREEN

LIST

CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/CA

AT CI/DA

SECOND

REMARKS:

The POA reinstatement period expired 19 Novenber 1965. Please submit

PRQ Part II. If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has'

been indicated, POl will be autonatically cancolled.

201-285923

SECRET

---

## Page 103

4-00000

MITHRESH PERSONVER CAULE LOCATOR 1

201 NUDER_

MORALES Navarrote. Ricardo 1.

285923

WITHRUSH NUNUCH 101

C MABER.

ACTION TAKEN

-NOMINATED FOR TITIHUSH.

FIELD TRACES REQUESTED

FIELD TRACES RETURNED. N. D.

FIELD TRACES REQUESTED.

FIELD TRAVE'S RETURNED N.D..

FIELD TRACES REQUESTED.

FIELD TRACES RETURNED N.D.

LOCAL, I & N TRACES N.D. -

LOCAL POLICE AND CREDIT TRACES N.D..

LOCAL FBI TRACES

N. D. -

CONTRACT SIGNED

NOTIFICATIÓN. OF POA GRANTED_.

DEPART U.S.

ARRIVED LEOPOLDVILLE

CONTRACT TERMINATION

RETURNED TO BIAMI:

BANKING INSTRUCTIONS_

I.CFLUTTER

CITE. MUMBER

IN NUMBER

DATE

WAVE 2901

88650

11 June 1965

WAVE 3062

92924

He san

92021

88650

117 Jun 1965

17 sun 110e

Juni

1965

201-285923

---

## Page 104

4-00000

ritten

SECRET

PROYISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORAMDUM FOR:

Chic?,

SOD/AB/OPS/3 - R. W. Gaabino

ALMBIR

201 - 285923

SUASECT

_MORALES MaYarrate, RICanda Andbal

REFERENCE: Your Memorandim, Dated

L10 JuDo 1965

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Stall' grants the same

authority,

on a temporary basis,

for the use of an individual as the authority

granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/QA. It is

based, however,

only on preliminary file checks and

inveotigation and is sub-

Ject to & further final review when all investigation lo completed.

Your attention 18 roferred to the request for cancollation nemorandua

submitted by SOD on 5 May 1965. Subject's amended DA Nas subsequently cancelled ae

requested.

A POA 18 being granted for the use of the Subject 1n1 the Congo under Project

WITHRUSH for a period Of 90 days. Upon receipt of an up dated PiA Part Ill an

DA WIll be processed. The PRA Part II of record pertaina to prior Wa/C/RR/QA

latended use la CUBA and does not cover SOD ul111zation in the Congo under

Project 's'WIPEGASUS or WItrUSH.

POA 18 reinstated until 18 November 1965.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRO

Parts I and II) must be

submitted as soon as possible and not later than six

(6) months from this date. A, Operational Approval will follow when all

investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satiafuctory PRQ Parts I

Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

visions ceases.

/s/, Edward P, Brown

: 20/129592.3

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL AFPROVAL AND SUPPORE DIVISION

1.68 025 186

P08010U8 10181ON8

SECRET

18 August 2265

(9)

---

## Page 105

14-00000

116: F. DALY: k09

IT : SOD/AB/OPS/3

іт : 4475

ITE: 10 June 1965

• ' JMWAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

COM: DIRECTOR

MESSAGE PORK

TOTAL COPIESI

E SEORET

O NO INDEX

O PILE IN CA PILE MS.

201=285923

• DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

O ME RA

3XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXIIXXXXX

ROUTINU

6

8

13 390

INTO VRE, FILE DO RID COPY C/EE, Ci/OR, REL,

WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

InFo

CITE DIR

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUME

AUTHOUGH REALIZE WORARS SUREADY POSSESSES OA POR FORMERl 8 3 1'3

KUBARK USE, HQS PREFERS DISCONTINUE RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTS FOR.

WITHRUSH PROGRAM. PREFER MAKE GENERAL PRACTICE AVOID

RECRUITING PILOTS WIO HAVE BAD ANY FORMER INTELLIGENCE

CONNECTION OR WHOSE HISTORY BEFLECIS DEROG INFORMATION EVEN

IF NOT SUBSTANTIATED AFTER LEFLUTTER EXAMINATION,

END OF MESSAGE

SOD/AB/OPS/3_

I Saly

NH/C/MO

Are Moufun /please

AF/5 T. Basked (phone).

DESJOND PA TZGERALD

C/WH

RELCASINO OFFICEA

COSADIMATIMO OPTICERS

SECRET

BERNARD J. FINAN, JR:

C/SOD/AB

AUTNENTICATINO

OFFICEA

mon un

---

## Page 106

14-00000

SECRET

201-28-973

300. 3-211!

?: Don Rus

HESORAHDUN POR: CaLor, 61/DA

AFYRIYION

8 At. George Ball

SUBJEC?

HORALES leverTolo, aloarde

The 8ubjo08, uho 1a the Subjoor of 301-288933,

posseeges Uparational Approval for use by s0u la luo Cougo

8.

Is da rogressed that the estatios Operational

Approval be asonded to doodado use hy 80u dn tho Cosgo

GOdOr PrOJOCE MITERUSA.

Rebort M. GaaDise

seoutity Offleer

Speelal Oparatione Divialon

Distribution:

orig. & 2: - Addressee

C/ 500/ AB

SOD/SECUE

- SợO/AB/OPS/3

- 201-385923

SOD/RI

• - Chion:

SOD/AB/QPS/3:4. MURPHY: kas (8 JUNE 1985);

SECRET

---

## Page 107

.:.

OPTIOMAL ROMA NO. 10

UNTTED STIES GUVFRUMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Col. Dletrick

FROM. : OMS/REG/PRO/COV

SUBJECT: Ricardo Morales (t)

Subject has been evaluated by the OiS and found to be

qualified for proposed assignuent..

DATE:

24 December 1964

Joe W. Cline

Physical Requirements Officer

---

## Page 108

*=. Ricardo NORALES Naravarrete.

Dear Mr. MORALES

You hereby release and forever discharge the Sponsoring

Organization and all its agents, officers, employees and

representatives fron any' and all clains, demands and

liabilitles 1n auy forn of by acy party that or whosoever

arising frou services performed by you for said Sponsoring.

газ a +3°

promeder lour denotandun ot Agreement signe

1E/15/6 4

64.

Silo Malen

15 DICEMBir 1961.

SI•-

Ricardo MORALES Naravarrete

Estinado Señor

MORALES

Con este documento firmado por Usted la Organizacion

Patrocinadora con todos sus agentes, oficiales, empleados

y representantes queden relevados para siempre de todo y

cualquier denandas suyas en cualguier forma o por cualguier..

fartido o persona que surgerían de los servicios suyos hecho

por dicha Organizaciod latrocinadora cajo su Nota a

C: 72498381 / 964

Acuerdo firmado_ 1 3/15/64

Fino Mirles

---

## Page 109

S000LT

FITNE3S REPORT: Ricaro Morslas

SUBMITTED 3Y:-MIIIlar Robertson

Ricardo was selected for the group because of

Case Officer recommendation and personal obser

vation and his' training record plus the abib 1ty.

to speak French and English as well as Spanish.

He is particularly bright, and during the prepara-

tory

and holaing phase, as well as during the phase.

in which he has been left behind to accompany Alberto

Perez home, he performed as required of a good

commando.

During. the action he showed a surprising leadership

taking ofer effectively a team which

coped tat the maest and continuins until no got

during a portlon of the action he served as Major

Hoare

s conno jink with aviatorg whose English was

not 300d.

Ricardo 1s definitely reconmended for spacial ops

in a leadership capacity, but 1t 1s mentioned here

thät his use to RUBARk baj be In a broader flela and

that use as a conmando may be wasting his talents:

Ricardo is not now enployed at IMWAVE. He 1s not

felt in any way to have after action sacualty

concern:

SeckeT

---

## Page 110

SECRET

3 October 1984

BORANDUA: FOR:

LUBJECTS:

ANDESK/1

ANDESK /2

201-289923

201-744303

ploade dierosara toe provious cancellatione corvarda

your office on subjeot Doth Individuala are currently

being atrilead by

spectal Operationa Division.

Bruce B. Cheever

DC /ER/SA

Distribution:

015. 42 - Addressee

- WH/SA/IOS

-201-285923

201-744305

26aC

Far.

1801

# 2615-285973

26773395

---

## Page 111

SECRETO

16 15%

MESSORANDEN DE ACUERDO

PARA: ENCaNdO ARIDal MORALES Harartetto.

I. Proposito del Acuerdo

Böte senorandu establece un sutuo entendintento entro voted, quien se

orfeclo voluntartemente para uni tarea peligrosa y arriesgada en el Congo,

y La Organizacion Patrocinadora: Bate acuerdo especifica las obllenciones

: y responsabilidades situas entro usted, a quien se hara referencta ma adeleste

como al Voluntarto, y la Openizacion Patrocinadora, referidi ina adelante cono

el Patrocinador.

I: Teralnos: del. Acuerdo

¡A.. Seguridad. El Voluntário entiende que sué servicios al Patrocinador

pueden cubrir actividad de una naturaleza peligrosa y arriesgada, la cual

requertra Instruccion clasiilcada y orientacion para preparar al Voluntario para

llevar e cabo su tarea. Di Voluitario acuerda so hablar o escribir nunca de

esta actividad a nadie y proteger la seguridad y las actividades del Patrocina-

dor el todo nonento.. El Voluitarlo acuerda conducirse de una manera respetuosa,

discreta y prafesional si espre.

B. Ubicacioni de la Farea: El Voluntarlo entiende que el permanecera en.

Los Retados. Untdos por durante todo el tieipo que el Patrocinador considère nece

sento para preparato para de tener de el esterar El toleterto entiendo

ademas de el se tremportado al delionu por lo medios pop 1 man

por al Patrocinador y que el Patrocinador deterinara la duractos de su este-

ala en el conso depenasendo del tengo neceserto para el cumplimiento de la

mistos. En adielos, el voluntarto entiendo que este acuerdo no le confiero

derechos como um empleado del Patrocinador y que este acuerdo lavalida cunigales

SECRETO

---

## Page 112

SECRETO

osu ciatrato ion el paúrocisador durante al periedo de su asignacion cua

sierto por este acuerdo.

C. Melon. La alatoa del personal Voluntarlo en el Congo sera proveer

seguridad y equipo que ineluira avionea al personal dentenado, partiespa, en

sistones de lavestigailon y rescate y llevar a cabo otras misiones que el

Petrocinador le asigne.:

D. Pega y soporte.-

1. El: Patrocinador le pagara al-Yolu

ario 1o

:(@) Mentras este en los Batados Daidos.

S 270.00

(0) Mientras esto en el Congo (desde la seena de 3 70.00

salida a fecha de regreso):

•2. En adieton a los pagos mencionados arriba, aquellos Voluntarios.

seleccionados para y participar con exitó en otros miniones que el Patrocina-

dar cenale como especieles, tanto antes como despues de la cielori, se le

:otorgara un bono a discrecion del Patrocinador por las cantidades desde $100

8 $1,000 por sisios, depenalenão del riosgo envielto y el ezito obtenido.

¿a caso de suerte del Voluntarlo como resultado de su perticipacion en esas

adolones especiales, el bono se pagara a su beneficiarto que se haya designado.

3. En caso de fallecer el Voluntario en el cumplimiento de su obis-

saclon en el congo, los berericios especiescados adelanto de paguran 81 el In-

airideo tiene por lo menos ua dependtento, 81 co Leno dependentes, el baren

Eleso sera el 50% del especificado.

(8) Dos anos de salario basico, aplicables a ese tiempo, os la

ó de de causas naturales cuatro anos de salerto basico, aplicables a ese

el la serte fue couseda por accidente.

---

## Page 113

SECALTO

(b) En caso de que el VOluntarIo El ¿esfonTa, hirlera o se eni.

sermura en el desesgeno de su tarea, el Patrocinados proveara Deneriçios

sodicos, putrurgicos y facilidados de hospital y transportacion. So papera

ampersoloa por una certided a la sola disertedos del Patrocinados, con tal

de que no excoda los listes nicima senalados arribe por sierte.

(0) El Voluntarto puede, al aal lo deses, comurar ua peguro opcional

por al tresipo en que este acuerdo este en efeito, a un valor reducido como

sigues

Sosero de Vida (durante du estadta de el Congo) en dento do 11, 000:

nauta in pudro do 5is, 000 en la muerto por ectõento isoso el doble del e

l. Da ceso de que el toluntarto son aprobendido o declerado desaperacido,

al Patroclador conttinare su compensacios al talor especificado en el

mbpararo 1, enla, rur un sertodo de tiempo sue so excede de lè serés desde.

La fecha do ou aprebenaton: 11 Patrocinador pestira este dinero a in benert-

clerlo denlenado o sera arecurado para el (volutario), segun bega diopuesto

el Valintarto:

5. Si potrocinados proveera coutda, alojentento, roja apropiada para su:

trabajo, egalpo y necesidades basicas personales, durante su estedie en 100

Setados Valdos, en candso y adentras erta en el Congo:

PT. Pa del Acuerdo

A. Durante el perlodo es que este severts este en vigor, al el voluntet.:

rio so cumplo con los terainos del acuerdo, ento acuerdo sora tensinedo por

o temenos dede sendo, no bron podo, pero

---

## Page 114

SBCRETO

la finalizacion faral dera despues que al Voluntarlo besa a1d0 regrasado a

Los Fotados Unidos y lo haya contenidó una accios situa y acoptable.. •

C.. La terminacion peneral de esto acuerdo entro todo al parzonal Tolun-

carto y el Patrocinador so efectuara a eu regreso a los Estados Valdos, Iuego

de baberse completado la sileion del pitirocinador en ol Congo.

D. El arreglo final de la tenainclón entre el Patrocinador y el Volunta-

Mo constotira eclemento de las dispostetonos espeesescadas aribe, 1.e,

pego final, bonos, al se aplices, apuntos sedicos y transportacion al punto

de orleen

orales paranete

albal MORALES Ha

Vounterto

9/24/64

•Fecha

Lom.a. Roberten

Patroetnador

24Sept. 1964

Feche

Pautado

АланМы

УВСЯ

24 Sentiempre 1961

SECRETO

---

## Page 115

SECRETO

Fecha.

9/24/14.

ISCLARACION DE BRISPICIARIO

TO PRECARDO ANIB

ALES NAVARREInciDro a la perecia abejo

lacerita il beneftelarlo legal para recibir del Patrocinador todo pago y bene-

fielos a que tengo derecho en virtud de 108 terminos del Hemo

indura. de Acuardo

Ilimado por ud en este fecha:

BIN THIC TARTO

HOnDreS MAGDA MORALES

Direccions SaS S.W. Fat apltha. Miam, fL:

-. Relacion: ESPOSA

нава

• ''

SECRETO

---

## Page 116

B B CBBTO

PETICION DB 80008

SO RUCARRO A. MORALES NAVARRETESOLICICO DEGUO pOr la CANtIdOS

do $15,000 dolares regia no especifica da el Meiorintos do

Acuendo Firmado por al 00_ 9/24/64.:

MOTos RICARDO ANIBAL MORALES NAVARRETE

Pecha de Mecsnentos 6/19/59:

eneficierto para él seguros: MAGDA: MORALES"

Foril

Droccions 5.35 S.W.7st apf fa MIAMi, FLA.

Relacion: WIFE

E

c'я

---

## Page 117

SECRET

No. 16

MEMORANDUM OF AUREEMENT

TO: Ricardo Anibal MORALES Navarriette

I. PA

urpose.of Agreement

This memorandum establishes a mitual understanding between

jou who have yölunteered for a potentially dangeroua and

heardous assignment ta the Conso and the sponsoring Organization.

Ints agreement specifies mitual obligations and responalbilities

between you, heretnaster referred to as the voluntees, and tho.

Sponsoring Organization, hereinarter referred to as the Sponsor.

II. Terms of Agreement.

A. Security. The Volunteer understanda that 11s services

to the sponsor may linvolve aotlulty of a dangerous and

hasardous nature, whioh will require classifted instruction

and orlentation to prepare thé volunteer to cáry out hie

asignment. The voluntoer agrees not to speal to or irite

about this activity to anyone forever and to protect the

security of the Sponsor and 1ts actlvitios at all times. The

Volunteer agrees to conduct finself in a respeotrul, discreet

and professional manner at all times..

B. Location Of Assignment. The Volunteer understands that

he ill remain in the united states for such time as the

Sponsor regards as necessary to prepare him for his foreign

assignment. The volunteer further understands that he will.

be transported to and from the congo by seans provided by

the Sponsor and that the duration of his stay in the Congo M1l1

SECRET

---

## Page 118

SCRET

de as long as the sponsor deema necessary to accomplish the

below stated mission. Furthermore, the Volunteer understanda

that this agreement confers upon him no Mights.as an employeé

of the sponsor and that this agreement supersedes any other

contrast with the Sponsor during the perlod of the assignment

covered by this agreement;

C. Mission. The mission of Volunteer personnel In the

dongo vil be to provide security los designated personnel

and aguipment to inolude alrorarts to partiespate in searoh

and jasore silsasons and to perfori such other missions ae

the sponsor may direat.

Pay and. support

1. The sponsor u1ll pay the Volunteer the followings

(a) thile 10 the ünlted States

$2,70.00

(b) uh1le 1n the congo (date of departure $370.00

to date of return)

2. In addition to payments Indicated above, those

volunteere salected for and partlolpating successfully In

such other miestone as the Sponsor may designate as special,

either before os arter the mission, will be awarded a bonus

at the discretion of the Sponsor la amounts from $100 to

$2,000 per ulasion dependent on the hazarde encountered and

success attained. In the event the volunteer expires as a

result of partiolpating in such special missions, the bonus

o1ll be pald to his designated beneffolary.

3. In the event the Volunteer exptres in the

2

SECRET

---

## Page 119

performance of duty in the congo, the benefits apeatfled belon

0121 Do paid 18 the Individual has at least one dependent:

Il Do rao po dependenta, tha benefit 11ll de 50% of that

spooffled.

(a.) Trio years bage salary, applicable at the

Bine, 1s death to from natural causes; four jears.

bede salary, appitcablo at the time, 15 death 16 prom

accidental onuses.

(D). In the event she Volunteer is Injured,

wounded or bacares sal in the performance of duty,

she sponsos vill provide

medfoal, surgical, hospital

and transportation benefits. Compensation mill be

pald 1o as amount at the sole discretion of the

Sponsor, providad 18 does not exceed the maxtuun

Ilmits as set forth above for death.

(0) "The Volunters way, 1f he aleots, purchase

optional Inaurance coverage for the time thie agreement

1l In effoot at a reduoed rate as follous: Straight

11f0 snaurance in Incrementa of $1,000 to a maxtman of

$15,000 with scoldental death being twice straight

"Iife coverage.

• 4.

"Is the event the Volunteer is captured or

declared by the Sponsor as alasing in aotion, the Sponsor will

continue his compensation it the rate speolfied in subparagraph

1, above for & period not to exceed tuelve isonths pron dato

3

S E

B T

---

## Page 120

14-00000

SBCRET

of capture. The sponsor u1ll pay this soney afthes to a

designated benolalary or to an aboror account, sa disposod

In advance by the volunteer.

5. The sponsor ulli provido food, sousing, operational

clothing, @julpment and basto parzonal socesotties durlng tbe

U.s, beded phase, ensouto, ass ville in the dongo.

iTi. Termination Of Agreement

A: During the period this agre

mant 10 In Offoot, Is the

Volunteer fallo to abido by tha terms of the agreemens, thre

aerenent will be terminated by to sponeos at a tina end in

a manner and place at the disaration of the sponsor.

8. Is the volunteer chooses to teralnato thile agrocroat..

he may so aleot, but final termination elia bo astor tha

Volunteer has been returned to the Staten aid autually

soseptable disposal action le arranged for tha foluntear.

C. General ternination of this agruei

nai tatrain ald

Volunteer personnel and the sponsor uill be effected on satura

to the U.s: upon completion of the sponsor's silasion la the

congo.

tinal termination settlemant betten the sponsor and

SEORBT

---

## Page 121

14-00000

SECRET

the Volunteer Mill condiat only of the arrangasants appolfied

above, 1.0., Sinal 2ay, bonus', 1l applicable, sadioal

olearance asd transportation to point of arleda.

final Aida prata anaret

wr. a. Kokete

DASS

173_2/24/64 mutano Aliqueti se 24 Sept. 1964

- 21 tine 064.

w=1.5

8B 0

---

## Page 122

14-0000

SECRIT

Date 9/24/64

Declaration of Beneflalary

Ricardo Anival

I /MORALES. Neva!

ette destenata 8ã9 marsca 820809

DOLOS aN MY LEgal DARESLALETY DA MECCITO RUS DAY

dua sa Dy tha sponsar under seras de

agreemant signed by se this dece.

Fare f101

SADO MAGDA: MORALES

Maras: 535 S.IV. 7-28 aptite Upame, Flai.

Ra1a810ash1p. WIfE

icit

наве

8 8

---

## Page 123

BBCRET

ESQUIST FOR DISURANCE

3 RICARO A. MoRaLEs NavAgs? Soguest snourance lui the asuit of

$ 15,000

- dollars ds spoclisod In the Mesorantua of Agroesent

Bleed by sa on - 9/34/64

HE RICARDO AMIBAL MORALES NAVAARETE

Date as Strelis 6/14/39

Bimetetary for pouncei MAGDA MORALES.

News:

Palationship: WIFE

icard

Applicant

R

B

---

## Page 124

R230CA2E2AE

:: Di enDogee lin 2uil: Ricerco iibel Chis jerzzotte

1:ON DO DO MOLiTICO 14 CECC 0f Cora-sey:

Enienncscm31: 511

Maria loraica

2:à9:/2039

122 incarcase poliodes:

Pozion Ho.

-+21031

and Tiraskir

Fonetits.

Corsrago Congeleiary

15,00

Bic

'Ion coupleted icod Will & Festanoas?

fill:

Icoatto=

Copy, ca file widt:

Tura and addaco of person tolding Poror of Astornos:

Subject states wife ra da hos access to as cond accoust

Oh file SOD

---

## Page 125

FIN DEL CONVENIO

Yo,

roman Mentes

entiendo que mediarte la ojo-

cucion

de mis

asberes he

recibido Inforracion y material de 1n-

telirencia y datos concert.lentes a la seguridad de los Estados

Unidos.

Esta inforiacion e Inteligencia,

junto con los retodos

de adquisicion,

manejo y diseninacion son clasificados de acuerdo

a las normas de seguridad establecidas por el gobierno de los

Estados Unidos:

So que la revelacion de esta informacion sin

la debida autoriracion esta prohibica por las Leyes de Espionaje

(18 USC Secs. 793 y 794), y por el Acta do Seguridad Nacioral

de

1947, que especificamente

exigen la proteccion de las fuentes de

inteligencia y

metodos contra la revelacion sin autorizacion.

Estoy de acuerdo que ni ahora ni nunca tendre ningun derecho,

interes titulo o raclamacion alguna sobre ninguna de la Informan

cion o inteligencia o sobre los metodos empleados para adquiriria

o manejarla que han sido de mi conocimiento, pero reconozco

siempre el pleno derecho de propiedad de los Estados Unidos sobre

estos asuntos:

Juro solomnemente o afirmo que nunca divulgaro, publicare

o revelare por medio de la palabra, conducta o por

cualguier

otros metodos esta

Informacion, Inteligencia o conocimiento,

excepto cuando sea necesario hacerlo en el cumplimiento oficial

de mis deberes y de acuerdo con las leyes de los Estados Unidos;

a menos que especificamente sea autorizado por escrito en todos

y cada uno de los casos por un rapresentante del gobierno de los.

Estados Unidos debidamente autorizado:

Entiendo que las disposiciones de este juramonto permanece=

rari en efecto sobre mi, a resar de que ni relacion esta siendo

terminada.

Estoy

de acuerdo de queren caso de ser ilamado a testificar

procedimientos administrativos..u otra clase

de tribu-

nal en relacion a informacion o inteligencia dentro del alcance

de este juramento, notificare a un representante de los Estados"

Unidos debidamente autorizado irmediatamente; tambien dejare

saber a la corte o al tribunal de mi Juramento al gobierno de 10s

Estados Unidos y presentare una peticion de que la necésidad para

testificar sea establecida antes de que se me pida hacerlo.

Entiendo que este juramento sera retenido por el gobierno de

Acepto esta obligacion 1i-

ausencia de presion o coercion

Tritulo)

Test,igo :

(Organizacion)

12/5/6% chaT

CLD Velarl

---

## Page 126

LISTENTON LASSETRI

¡so the rectalent or Intestica dd Inteillgence setorial end dines chico macora

tra security of the taited States.

This Inioratics and intolligre, together

inth the sethode of enlicculas. Landling sad dissination ars classified according

to security stendando set by the tailal States Gorerasent.' I ra stre that tee

unnuthorired. aincipoure af sus infantitica la prohibited ly the Fortia: ge Leus,

(18 USC SEC3. T93 and Ty), and the 5au10ail Security det of 1917 itica apecifically

roquires the protection of latelligerce sources noù enthods iron unushorized dis-

closuro.

I agree that I do sot now, sor will I ever, pessers ery right, Interest, title

-as clate unstrooves 1s or to sier or fee inforastión or intelligence or the mathodo

as callecting or assaling 1t ties les come to st ittention, but shell. flugges

recognise the full and tested groperty right of the United Stites 1n and to cuct

betters.

I do salesly swar or attira thet I olll never divulge, publish or reveal by

vard, conduct or by any other sesas such infórmtion, lutelligence o. knowledge

except tuss necessary to do so in the jerforunce of my offlelal duties and in

accordance with the lans of the taited States, unless specifically euthorited in

wating in each and evory case iya daly authortied representative of the United

States Governient.

I understand that the protitions of this onth will reimin binding tpon me,

even thoush sy relationshiy 1s belig terminated.

I agree that in the event I in ever colled upon to tesiify in s court of lau,

adudaistrative proceedings of sides tribunal regording inforuction or intejligence

vithin the scope of this osto, I vill rotily. a duly ruthorizen representative of the

vasted states Insediately; I will elso savine the court or tribun:l ne my asts to.

the United States Gorermient sod seriest that ty need to restify ve established

before I 8a required to do so..

I undersiand that this outs vill be ratrined by the Unided Strtes Government

•for sta future use in any atter vithin the scope of this astir.

obligetion treely, vithout eny menirl reserration or purpose of evision end la

absence of duress.

(Sigaeture)

(orgsalzation)

(Titio)

intressed by: -

(Date)

---

## Page 127

SECRET

202 Mо. 285923

MEMORAMOUH FOR:

Cb10s, 500550208/748

SỐP/SO

Cal Hicks

JaB. Scanior

Operastonal Approval d8 heroby granted in the case of ANDESk

-, Pos the purpose specified in your request

datod 18. September 196l

Lo The ourrent Q1 for Subject 18 anandad to Inaludo usa by SOD 15

the Cango fox PM activitios inder. Project WIPEdASUS.

2. Subject of 201-741305 has a POl vita an li pending receipt as a

favorable Investigation, Els POA has been extendad and amended accarding

3o This till confini oral anandient al Subjectis clearnaco on beball

Of. HE/SA/HOB/PH.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to thie:

office,

and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-P 10-5.

LaL Edward P. Brown

CI/OPERATIONAL, APPROVAI, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Daté: 21 September 196li dir

Distribution:

Огід.

10. Addrossee

1 to Files

Excheel t2a Esten

SECRET

---

## Page 128

14-00000

SECRET

568-68-1081

18 Sf64

ASPENTICA

chlo8: C1/01

1s, Doorgo Ball

: Oporallenal Approvalo

eurodi of letter i 102 a 10 e i moro dero

AL'A

877638

08789

103580

£6493

321661

827075

88257€

885993

88188

100705

SAMS

BA:03

291724

889319

789498

828135

1810T

SANS

BAM3

64853

102883

162s03

964305

-881978

8990÷3

emendod so inoinie uso by sha spatal fusasions Dirlsles

Barity et 100г

Beeurity

spoolal Oparatleas Divalon

CEXCURi

Cai Mọte

0N/SA/1103/121

50/SOD/JBS: bk 175 Sep

64)

Distribution:

Addee

TH, SA M0B/PM

SO, SOD

- RI/SOD

SECRET.

---

## Page 129

SO. OCUMENT EATRACT

THE.FOLLOSING.INFORMATICY.COYCERNING..THE SUBJECT..OF.IMIS_201

JUSSIE?.HAS_BGEY EXTRACTED.FROM.GGOTVEF_OFFICIAL.OU.FILE.-

PERSONS PEREOPMING LAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONEO THAT THE DOCU=

MENI FROM WHICH THIS. EXTRACT HAS. PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORMATIOUPERTAINING.IUT.ME SUEJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED

_ ERCM IPIFILES.

MOELAES NAXAFREIE. OLGARDO

201-0235923

SEX Y

0:25-005-000

CARA - 30526

04. AUG 76.

COORDINATORS-VEN

ID. 81.237.1.58

MER OFFICE DE INFORMATION,

PROCESSING AND

ANALYSIS

DISIP _CREDENTIALS.AFPLIED.FOR.27_FE9

_76. BY. SUBJ 201-0051550.-

DATE 13 AUG 18

09426487_

207-285923

SECREL

_ EZ IMPOET CL BY 054979

---

