# 104-10171-10020

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10171-10020

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLATINCATION

S8CRÄT

PROCESSINO

• ACTIOM

Eras

PROM

CHIORORSEASORE MAYE

chief, tessom Heziapher Divlaion

DO INDOUSE. MOULATO

COAT QUAIMED

MAOQURNTIRS BOR

ABSTRACT

SUBUICT

IMZIP/ NUTUBE/ AUDESA KUSODA.

DRE SATANAL SONIA SONICEA

ACTION REQUIRED ALERTACTI

and Yampanion

A.

BARR-0270

Bo HATE-1220 (not sent DIR)

MICROFILMED

0ST 2 1 1968

DOC. MICRO. BER.

lo forvarded under separate cover per reparence l raquest and subject

codes and ralated inforuation. Please note trat the second codo does not

coritals the "11" of the spariah alphabet as does the fir'at codo.

accoasable, sourcos should be contacted for code-chock.

In subaltilng the inforation the thrse IRi. reprosentatives

roquestod to be intervioned jointly.

spokenian for the group was Adalto l'

BARRO CArcla, A fourth rofuses, Rareel SAirAi

Ivares, enterod POPRIME WItt

tha DRE repfEstntativos:

do FAdOLSE BARRO barCLa aNd TITo?

DPOB - 30 Sep 1943

momber of the Directorlo Rovolucionarlo Estidlant! (URE) In Sagua la

Grando, Las sUles and li the regional coordinator for the bri ln the

arca comprised of corrallllo, Rancho Veloz, Quemado de Culnes,

ONE

de sama, Sitionico, Siclo Grando, Cluences,

Terbala.

calabasara de. Sagua..

The Da hao approctor y 200 men in elad area

T. but they lack anas and other equl prent.

A sendlag and receiving set

(radio) res been Installed at Inabola do Saga, Las Villas. Bernardo 04,08

la MADRID ala FAUSTriO 1o the present coordinator li sagua da Grando,

Las vllles.. The purpose of thoir trip to PBPRIME la to contact Manual

SALVAT In Miesil, Plorida,

They plan to ratura to Cube.

La tina a dan tro Honda de oN 0R08 - 21 M6 290, 200.

Attachmentas l ala, trorer k/cu

Distributions

3 - JYAAVE M/l att

• 508091

k/41

is COPY

19 - 120 - 18

19

-120 - 33

CASSIFICATIN

SECRET

14-120-19

DATE DISPATCHED

7 Yeb 1962

7 deb 1962

DISPATCH SYNDOL AND NUMBIA

UFKA-1

HLAOQUARTERS FILE NIPARTR

19 - 120 - 19

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduse

6/BR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

nough he vas not a mender of ary

claridestine group,

asslated others to leave the camitry. Jubject and the aforomentioned ....

porsons departed Cuba on board the VUbAI U/V BLAiCA ESTRiLLA OMied Dy INRA US

but operated by Subjectle brothor Israol SAiTA.A Altares, who droppod them 0.

at Anguida and rocured to Cuba to brug othero out that vere supposed to

not their,.

but they missed cleir conrestions.

subjoct's group departed

¡ from laabela de Sagua, Las Villas 34 January 1962 at approximately 2400 houro.

On 22 Nacember 1961 a group of apprarinatoly tventy miltiamon and sion frou

the ORI vero drinking in. vardous bars and displayine, the communiat flago

Anyono nio appeared to ba unsympathetic vas beaton..

Thoy also want to

the homes of somo sha voro suspectod of bolne antl-castroites and rould

boat then also.

They beat up appraximatoly tranty porsons. This took

place in Calbarion, Las Vlllas.

Subject was one of many arrested between

22 and 26 December.

When thoy sere taken to a restaurant across from

the f-2 office, Subject managed to escape..

The other three sien that

cano with him on tho boat manasod to bido him until they made good

their oscape by boat. Tibjoct 1ists tho follouing as G2 asanta!

antonió DaRECON Correa, Mayor of Salberten, Las Villas

Uno TOXO (nickname) la tils hoad of the C-2.1n Calbarien

C-Dch6

a boat transhipping sugar. !nom uayo

¡ranços to Calharlen, Las Villa:

Luciano DEATAJA, Juanito HETAlA and four other brothers

Subject fuither stated that Pedro "0-TBRO, "lejo MU.TERO and Eduardo

MU:TERO as actire membera of the HR group in Caibarien, Las Villas.

06,06,06

Francisco ROBLE lis to active coordliator for the ipP In this arsa.:

Andres and GullTerna GO-LALiz (fisheren) are informers for the C-2

In Caibarien:. They will propose that they holp Cubans get out of the

Subject also stated

chat the 381st aud 382id Battalion of militia aro presently in lalbarien;

Las Villas, subject states he is willing to return to juba and work for

the underground. (Sounce Comments Il chis subject is to bo used in any

marnor, pleaso bo reminded that he claims to have escaped fron dio G-2.

He may bo trying to irfiltrato the groups here or be may do tryjng to

find out hoy the DRi operates in tha las Villas zone.

jitrain

End of lessage

sic - Fictimen

Juie.

DOC: MICRO. SER.

16-1:6-14

16/BR

---

## Page 3

4-00000

MICROFILMED

UCT 2 1 1968

ДВСВБТ

BRE STERN ERNES,

DOC. MICRO..BER.

LAtes code eboy will uso le ebo callondess

Banda do 10 motoro

1,500 k1Lo0yad0s

ClaTo Lo

Averco - 13 (12016 oil dion

Broadaais Elmas 81J0 como Os 88J0 patta Las VIllas

The dodo note to be head inen ErEntAllElAS VULl DO FUERRILLiRI

PAS LAS ARESO 000-TO DEA LINE LOMA S

000-23 HUZ DosA CARMAN

200-2 LUNA 0023

SAPO

CARO 2229-0-160 00-10 UsTO STiON SI-S G2O

VI COTORRA 102-28 802-,

CONE FOR NUMBEA3S

la 145-20. &o 893-101 3o CAVYDU. As 657-6 So 0D-2150 Go ALLATRAI

TO SIGLAN

8o 2000-17 8 36-00 0, 34-18

renoved from peasees duly file

cs Classificatton: 19-120-19

PUTTO LITRi PALABRA I PALABRA

JOB 460-604

seen 50de to be used--chay ulll use ono code one day and the other the norte

8a730 bard

sano (roquency

Sess Bless

.. do 124

Bo PEZ

CO WUHALLANA

Do CAIN

to 188

No BURRO

Go 840

Codo's none opusion to indicate which codo la balos usel

Agento - 13

235 ILllas

Tao seno codo soma ¿ll'RaJ11190 vill de naod shon trensaltelat

NO P'ALOMA

119

to (46

RIO

000-4

So 19

5 17-2

93.2

57-33

Wo

Lo 4J4

180-9

so 24-63

. Ro

123

CAMPU

00-61

6790

РІДХО

Lo CALAN

та 3405

out. I to UFKA-I

1724.1962

PUXTO E¡TRE PALAERA Y PALABRA

19-120-19

---

## Page 4

4-00000

ЗБЄВЕР

Placas chel chor con dalinor aria and aquipaent of ochar Datartale

CARRAL - (ALACRAN) ANUILAS - (LOSA LIDÍA).

RUDOS ANI = (LONTOTURA)

Cado Par nuber es

LO SI8UN04 20 86S S. 1,500 Ao 10,000 SO CRION BO J0G8 % ILERAO

DO RASQY Ді нОД О. 81

buenener sakins any phono calla ibey vill una sba fallosing codos

LLITAR A SRA. MARIO - SALLIO A ISAASLA DE SAGHA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAY ANTONIO

ONTECA SA MIAMI-AL NABLASS REGUARANS A SINOS Y PADXBO

ESTOY HABLANDO - LATO SAL

PINTAIDO - ROQUE KET

RECIBE CARIAS IAL BLA - PARA RECOJER

S BCR

---

## Page 5

SEGBBT

BER ATTERSAL CRIES

CAses Se19 eboy ddll año do che sallondage

Benda do 10 notaro.

1, 500 milacycles

Lans lee

Senta - 13(10010 Polio go ledon

D5SodeR88 81008 8190 Rutt, Or 81J0 pasa lea Telles

Tha sodo sesa to be nood then erocentelas vill be SUlaRILERe

in crores 102-28 soa

СОЗВ ГОП ХШ04BX83В

do 145-20, 2o 892-104 3O CAÑON -00 A 657-6

S.

00-2150 Bo ALCATRAZ

2а 9ICZ0N 8. 8000-17 D. 96-00 0. 34-10

PUNTO ENTRE PALAERA Y PALABRA

Sesend fade to ba unada tier ddll nos oua cola one doy snd the orber tha neces

song baud

Some tragerna

Sema Eleas

codolo sena irusion to Indianto stel codo la bales nood

Agence - 1

Во 128

GO LUNA-LLEN

Do CAIN

8o 278

SURRO

Go

840

NO SALOMA

1o 6658

Jo

39

Is 17-23

43-4

180-9

Fo 14-63

0.

810

93.3

52-23

225

та 340-3

PUNTO LiTRO PALLERA Y PALABHA

U. 419

000 в

No. 00-62

So 6790

Lo PLATO

So CALMAN

---

## Page 6

4-00000

Plesos Pues poey can dalItor atos end equipent es orbor pararlas!

CALSAL - (ALACTAS)

AYGUILAS - (LULA ULDIA) ROQUE NAT - (LOCUMOTORA)

cosa for samberas

1O PREURON 20. PES SO 1,500 4o 10,000 So CAYOY Do JOS8 % VIERRO

Во ЛАТОЙ до НОРОВ О. 21.

Bbenoter saklas aNy phone calla thay tlll uso sha sallosdre codos

LAYAR A SHA. MARCO - SALSIO A ISABILA DE SAGUA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAY ANTONII

ARA SY MIAMI-AL HABLAZE RECUERDOS A ALTUS & PARRE.

ASTOI HABLATIO - CAYO BAL

PLITAYDO - ROQUE LEY

RELIBE CARTAS TAL DIA - PARA RECOJBE

19-120-19

---

