# 104-10171-10034

## Page 1

104-10171-10034

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S

ECRET

MiCROFILMED

Chief, Tack Force

AUG

1 1962

chier of station, ARG MICRO. SER.

GYROSE/ Opcrat lonel

DHE/Cuerrillas-larana and Las VIllas

ATTRITION REQUESTED: PU, KUTURE: all

16 JuLy 1962.

RETURNTO CIA

ok - 167, Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

CIT: CUEN

1o On 14 July 1962, Juan "RodrIguez Jobolca, A L2 821 206,

So to do lose catch to, Dant StaS, at Marcent 3,

last address, favene;

Yaywood, Los Alsoles, California, telephone 581-5509, wes interviewed.

sald hel formerly belonged to the DRi, but after Playa

Giron It diointegrated. Neverthcless, he cald, he was able to keep in

contect vith a few DRi people who are in Havura..

He said details on the

DPE could be obtained from lanuel Salvat, but he did state that he belonged

to the URE group headed by a brother. of Dlas ianz. This brother 1s dill

In Havinä. He said this group wants to engoge in political assassination,

and hao repoacaly requested that plotols with silencers be sent from

the United States.

3.: source sald that his cousin,

Salvador Comolca,

, 1s a guerrilla

Leader in Las Villas Province, more spectrically, operating be-ween

Mateuzon aud corralillo.

He said that his coucin 1s a lleutenant about

30 jearo old.

He hes a chall croup, few arms, and very little amunition.

He 10 trying to fet outside help but there 1o no sethod of couminicating

, 06,08

of "Campito",

Source said that Salvador ¿omolca In married to a daunter

(Comment: A previous source reported that

there are tho

The scn 1s the nost

-

-

Nelion L. PAYNOCK

CS CSPY

SECRET

19-120191

ZIBR

---

