# 104-10185-10105

## Page 1

104-10185-10105

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 $27

CENANTINE LICENES AGENCIE

001

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBSCT (Inu) RELOVA

SEC REST

YO TORTEEN DISSEN

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CsC1-316/00704-64

11 September 196%1

RET

Backer

Do Not Reproduce

POny

1

DA Cr 1968

INFO

PASSE

Washtoston DeC

DATE ACOANguSt 18641

FIELD REPL

sounce ones cuba 1S officer who served with the Cuban

Intellence Service until April 1965.

Headquarters Comments;

the following report is ase of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Informacion Iron the recoras: of this Ayency."

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agercy.

Directo Geneva detecta once onerds birectorat a tho

Intelligence - DGI) 1A Cuba: He resides at Calle 15 number,.

2÷19, Reparto

Juar Manuel Marquez, Palya de Santa Fe, Mariano;

1,2,2,4,5,6

Headquarters Comments

An airline passengor manifest reveried that one Ösvaido.:

RELOVA Penichet, probably identical with the above subject,

leir Mexico for Kabuna on '8 July 1963. and was the holder..

01 Cuban passport number D/63. 425.

2 :

An Geficial Janaican sourcel in a report dated 16 October 1963,

stated that Osvaldo RELOVA; the First Secretary of the

Cuban Embassy in Canada, arrived in Kingston on 14 October 1963.

He was in Kingston for one week and lived at the Cuban:

consulate office.

RELOVA was reportedly making an inspection

CrIP: PELOVA was born on 15 August 1930, in Habana. His

home address was given

as 154 2419 Santa Fe, Habana.

carried Cuban passport number D/63/415; issued in Habana

on. 17 June 1963..

STATE"

DIA

ARINY

REP

CINCLANT

(Nore: Fiold distribution indicoiud by "=".)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES

1A12

CINCSO F. IN.YS

INSA

adas trans aarons

IXEY

I CCR

1. FBI 2

4

3

C/SA/B001

LE/SAMOR

HICITIA

12I CL/REA

1E/SI/CL

RID/AY

TOTALS VEI/SA à (1): VE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

I3'TEXBRITISELII

LEISH SRI 11

LIAISON *

201-73713S

TLX- 1650.

NO PROJBOT CANNILA/1

CSCI-313/0070•1-8-1

¡COORDINATiNG;

IK:LD:six

---

## Page 2

i saurt died 19 Octoker 1963,, spence enraosa,

"Entases

cui Corro, S.A." tiri, locates d3 Calzade del Corro

tabana.

4. a fairly reliable source, in a report caseu 23 October 1S63;

¿evaléd thi= Ostaldo RELOVA, First Secrecary of the Cuban Embassy

in Canaur, jeft Ningston for, Toronto 0u:2 October 1963, on

IcA flight aundér

SS5.

6. 4a bificial Canadian sourcg, in a resort dated 26 Noventur 1063,

said that Craldo RELOVA Penicitet, bora ba 15 August 1930, was

sor the frisi secretary of the Cuban dabassy in Canada as previous

raports stated: Rather, RELOVA, who was t frequent visitor lo

Canads,

traveled is in "Embassy Inspecior "ohe carried Caba fa

Diplomasic passport D/03/415 with Mexicos visa number OF-7090, he

had no Canadion

risa.

15/3 nuatex 2119,

The address on his passport was gaven as

Santa Fe Banch (sic); Fabina:

RELOVA entered

Canaca on 16 August 1963, destined to vissy Jesus YANES Rodriguez,

Cuban Connerical. Attache

in Montreal. He departed: Canada for Nexico

oa: 25 August 1963,

In the company of Alberia MENDUCA:

afformer. Cuban

Intelligence officer who has been livins in the Unsted

Statés since

1963 and whose reporting over the past nine months has

proven reliable, gave the following inforcation on 21 July 1S64,

•on Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet (presumably ideatical with RELOVA):

In early 1961,

RELOBA was an adhistrator of a section

of the Corsolidated Hardware Stores and annexes:

In late

1961 he weat to see source to get help with an

investigation

on ¿ lr. BARRAL, Administrator of the Consolidated (sic).

RELOBA

was requesting sources aid. in the belief that sourcé

was still working for G-2; source did not tell him otherwise.

PELOBA is a new Conmunist who wants to be more than vary and

is trying to

instruct

everyone arou?d'hin..

Source said that

RELOSA was born about 193%, is 161 pourds; five foc; nine

inchcs in height, has

a rediun thin baild, a long

face,

and

long thin neck.

He has dark eyes, black hair;

is partially

bald, and has a small, thin nustache.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

i/po

---

