# 104-10071-10324

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10071-10324

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CIASSIRICATION

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere DIVISIOD

INFO.

Attention:

Chief, WH/1

FROM

Ch102. WH/ MHSPAWN

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico CIty V.

OPERATIONAL/LIANCHOR

Progress Report for December 1967 - Huy 1968

ACTION RECURED REFERENCIS

Action Required: None; FYI

References

A..

HMMA- 33670, 13 December 1968

B.

Mexico Clty-5688, 25 May 1968

PROCESSING ACTIÓN

I MANKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDE KING RIQUIRIO

ONLY QUANFIED DESK

CAN WUDGE INDE MING

SUMMARY

1. During the reporting period the LIANCHOR leftist

writer press service produced 35 individual articles and

serialized political feature articles which were distributed

to 20 newspapers throughout Latin America and are known to

have been published regularly by at least 12 newspapers.

Despite this acceptable production rate, the project has not

achieved the objectives set for it by the Mexico Station and

In the Project Outline.

2.

Prior to submission of a project renewal request in

late June, 1968, the Mexico Station will attempt to convert

the LIANCHOR operation into a more effective and politically

more leftigt operation.

BIX LIANCHOR preSS servICe

writers wiit be dropped and P/A LINLUCK)will be replaced,

hopefully by Identity-l, a respectedlindependent leftist

Mexican editorialist for the prestige center-left daily

"EXCELSIOR". If by the end of June, 1968, the operational

Continued...

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Attachments:

A'.

Identities (u.s.c.)

,B. Tranglation & Articles (u.s.c.)

C. Handbill, Brochure, Open Letter (u.s.c.)

Distribution:

2 - C/WHD

wo/attg

CS COPY

- C/WH/1 w/atts A,

B and C

1 - C/WH/MHSPAWN w/atts A,

DISPATCH SYMBS

• KUPY

AND NUMBER

(U.8.C.)

and C (u.s.c.)

¡DATE

HMMA - 34792

CIASSIFICATION

SECRET

9271

AVENTURE CARE

...

FEPRODUCTIONS

3 June I968

KOS FILE NUMBER

50-126-38/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA - 34792

mechanism of LIANCHOR (a cooperative and self-supporting press

not subsidized by WOFIRM) does not seem operationally

viable, the LIANCHOR project renewal request will be aubmitted

us an administrative and financial roof project for the 1nd1-

vidual handling and exploitation of singleton leftiat writer

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

)ne Information report was diegeminated in May, 1968,

based

on information acquired by (LINLUCT.

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

4. Formal Organization of LIANCHOR Press Service:

The Reference "A" project proposal reports all

significant incidents in

the development of the

LIANCHOR press service bj' LINLUCK)and the Mexico

Station through the first week of December, 1967; when

•0 (LINLUCK set about bringing together the candidates for

membership in the cooperative press service.

As Head-

which he was

to persuade a number of leftist and center-

left writers to join together as contributors to the

LIANCHOR (Identity-2) press service.

The contributing

writers or membors of the press service were to agree

to waive fees for a trial perlod during which the press

service was to develop paying clients among Latin

American newspapers and

periodicals.

b. (LINLUCK) held three meetings of candidate members

of the press

service during December in the home of

Identity-3.

The

abetings were unruly but everyone at

the meetings agres

to

contribute material to the press

service and submi!

ato editing and control of the material

by (LINLUCK, O! Hower

ar, what with the 20 day Christmas

festivitieg which paralyze all Mexicans from 15 December

to 5 January of each year, none of the LIANCHOR members

until than Identity-4 submitted a manuscript to @INLUCK) ol

until late January.

LINLUCK dusted off the best and most timeless of

9a11 1967 articles and mailed them out with a pro-

spectus to newspapers suggested by third country stations.

throughout Latin America.

At the end of December (LINLUCK) /

became seriously ill and the project was dormant until

mid-january.

In the latter part of January (LINLUCK) held

a sober businesg meeting of the LIANCHOR press"group at

his home and by the end of January the members began to

submit manuscript.

5. The Search for a Replacement for P/A/LINLUCK:

LINLUCK was formally terminated in the summer

O 1968.

He spent much of big termination bonus on

sending

hia family back to France (the wife 18 French)

and setting the family up there in an apartment and plac-

1ng his sons in school.

wag

again placed on salary while NOFIRM subsized the

publication of a book which he had written in support of

1 to a

HERTURE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

НИМА - 34792

in South America accepted the book but would not senc

I (LINLUCK) his share of the salos, which was to be use

to repay WOFIRM the cost of publishing the book. in

the late fall of 1967, LINLUCK spent six weeks 1n

Guatemala where he reached agreements with the Guate-

malan Defense Minister, Rafael ARRIAGA

Bosque, whereby

the Defense Ministry was to pay (LINLUCK U.S. $4,000

Por the right to publish 10, 000 coples of

h18 11r8t

book.

the U.s. $4,000 was to be paid by, LINLUCKy to

NOFIRM as partial reimbursement of the costs of pub

lishing the Jinod book.

During the visit to Guatemala,

O LINLUCK was told by ARRIAGA and nther Guatemalan

government officials that he cou!! expect a consular

appointment by the summer of 1963.

b. Headquarters and the Mexico Station were agreed

that as soon as he could organize LIANCHOR and find &

suitable replacement, LINLUCK should be terminated and

leave Mexico.

receipt of the LIANCHOR

project approval in early 1968, the LIANCHOR cage officer

tion over to his replacement by the end of March, 1968.

'(LINLUCK) proposed Identity-4, who had shown the most

interest in the LIANCHOR press service and had been the

first to submit articles.

By accident the case officer

was forced

to: listen to an hour's conversation between

Identity-4 and (LINLUCK after Identity-4 came to LINLUCK's

bome, interrupted a meeting between the case officer and

O (LINLUCK) and the case officer sat trapped in a separate

room unbeknownst to Identity-s.

From the conversation

the case officer observed that Identity-4 was actually &

political rightist, belleved, LINLUCK) to be an LNHARP

agent, had grandiose plans for uging LNHARP fundg to

mushroom LIANCHOR into a continent-wide anti-Communist

movement and was married to a neurotic woman who had

hired a private detective agency to check on her husband's

activities! LINLUCK was instructed to quietly ease

Identity-4 out of LIANCHOR, to cease holding group meet-

Ings of LIANCHOR writerg and to try to prevent further

contact between Identity-4 and other members of LIANCHOR.

c.O Identity-s wag selected as the next candidate to

replace (LINLUCK aS P/A.

Identity-5 was technically,

linguistically,

intellectually and professionally well

qualified to head LIANCHOR.

During the perlod of develop-

ment and assessment of Identity-4 by LINLUCK,OlIdent1ty-5

wrote an excellent article on soviet

intellectual piracy.

However, Identity-5 proved difficult to contact and

control

and turned out to be leading a personal life

which would have detracted seriously from his ability

to administer LIANCHOR DI (LINLUCK) was told to keep in

touch with Identity-s, but to look for still another

candidate.

d.

April ARRIAGA Bosque!

wag exiled to Miami.

With the

Station's concurrence LINLUCK went to Guatemala

during Easter to confer with Guatemalan President, Jullo

MENDEZ Montenegro, and the new Defense Minister concern-

Ing his own future. The President said he had hor

forgotten (LINLUCK) but would not be able to give him a

consular post until the outset of 1969.

The President

also Bald he would not be opposed to LINLUCK's returning

to Guatemala and entering politics.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

"SECRET

HMHA-34792

Upon LINLUCKs return to Mexico he asked

The ther

there was any possibility that he could be kept on after

30 June 1968 for an indeterminate period as LIANCHOR P/A

until some outside job showed up.

The case officer said

he would discuss the matter with Headquarters, but felt

that in the interests of (LINLUCK " family and

career it was high time that LINLUCK

Replacements were again reviewed and it wag decided that r.

the best candidate would be Identity-l, who had turned

down memberghip in LIANCHOR because he wanted immediate

anything he wrote.

Identt.ty-6 of the LIANCHOR

group, a friend of Identity-1, was queried as to Identity-1'8

personal life and, as far as can it discovered, Identity-l

lives a guiet lile with his wife and family and is highly

respected in Mexican intellectual circles both as an author/

editorialigt and as an independent leftist.

Reference "B"

and "PLANS" below report the Station's plans for possible

recruitment and

subsequent utilizrtion of Identity-l as

P/A of LIANCHOR.

production of Articles and Features by LIANCHOR:

Separate cover attachment "Bu

contains a translation of a LINLUCK

report written J. May 1968 on articles and feature articles pro-

duced and distributed during the period 15 December 1968 to

30 Apr1l 1968.

Case officer comments are included along with

information about articles prepared and distributed in hay.

{INLUCK) Involvement in Covert Action Operations Targetted

Against Soviet Poet Yevgenyi YEVTUSHENKO (March-ApriT 1968):

In March (LINLUCK) drafted an open letter to Soviet

poet Yevgenyi YEVTUSHENKO asking the Russian to use bis

influence to persuade the Soviet government to-end the

persecution of Soviet intellectuals, artiste, writers and

poets. @INLUCK managed to obtain the signatures of stu-

dents, professors, actors, dancers, writers and intellec-

for his open letter

and then persuaded the publisher

of hig books to print thousands of copies, which were

distributed by other agsets of the Mexico

Station.

copy of the open letter was published in "EXCELSIOR" on

the day of YEVTUSHENKO's arrival in Mexico for what was

originally billed as a personal trip.

Because of the

open letter and critical press coverage of YEVTUSHENKO 'g

rude behavior towards the press on arriving at Mexico

City airport, the Russian Eubassy called a special press

conference the evening of the day of the poet's arrival.

At the press conference YEVTUSHENKO spoke with outrage

of the open letter, carefully dodging a number of questions

asked by the letter, and chided the signers of the letter

for claiming there

wag absolute literary freedon In Mexico,

asking how there can be freedom anywhere in the world ag

long as there is no freedon in Vietnam.

YEVTUSHENKO' g

remarka

about the open letter left no doubt that he had

come

to Mexico as n Soviet propagandist and not as a rebel

LINLUCK) also produced a handbill quoting the

by Soviet intellectuals to the

"Consultative

Conference of Communist Partleg" at Budapest, asking for

an end to soviet

persecution of intellectuals in the USSR.

The handbill featured two pen and ink drawings of imprisoned

Soviet poets Sinyavsky and Daniel.

He also arranged

the printing in Spanish of an authoritative study of 1nc1-

dents surrounding the Galanskov-Dobrovolsky trial 1n

brochure form.

Thousands of copies of the handbill and

statinn andate durina

(PRODUCTIONS)

---

## Page 5

00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA -34792

and the open letter are submitted as Separate Cover

Attachment

"C" to this dispatch.

Costs of the print-

ing and distribution were charged to LILISP-X.

VIa Identity 4 LINLUCk)pussed guidance material

to Mexico's toy female poet, Margarita MICHELENA,

concerning YEVTUSHENKO.

MICHELENA publighed a series

of professional criticisms of YEVTUSHENKO as a poor'

poet and opportunist in the Mexican press.

In April, i

immediately following YEVTUSHENKO's departure, & con-

densation of the MICHELENA critiques of YEVTUSHENKO were

published in the

leftist political illustrated magazine

"IMPACTO" by LILISP-E.

Identitles 3 and 6 of tne LIANCHOR group also

published articles against YEVTUSHENKO in the rightist

dally 'EL SOL", but the Station felt the articles were

too vitriolic and unobjective to be a credit to LIANCHOR.

In fact, because of these articles the Station plans to

remove both Identities 3 ana 7 from LIANCHOR; for it is

obvious that both persong have long since lost all traces

of their former leftism and are extreme rightists.

EFFECT IVENESS

8.

Views on LIANCHOR Effectiveness by Owner/Director of

Guatenala Dally "EL IMPARCIAL":

During (LINLUCK's) Easter visit to Guatemala City

he wag told by the owner of "EL IMPARCIAL" that the

newspaper was only interested in publishing LINLUCK's) /

The newspaper owner stated that (LINLUCK) was

a well-known pergonality in Guatemala and also wrote

interestingly.

The owner also said that he had pub

lighed one

series by Identity-4 because Identity-4 was

a Guatemalan who at one time had been important.

the owner pointed out that the other LIANCHOR writers

were unknowns and did not write well.

Identity-3 as being a "menace to journalism" because much

of what she wrote amounted to libel or slander..

b.

The "EL IMPARCIAL," owner said that he received

the newspapers 'EL DIA" of Honduras,

"LA PRENSA GRAFICA"

of El Salvador, "LA PRENSA" of Nicaragua,

"LA REPUBLICA"

of Costa

RiCa,

"LA ESTRELLA" of Panama and "ULTIMAS

NOTICIAS" of Caracas and had noted that these newspapers

all published, LINLUCK's articles but had not, to his

knowledge, published articles by any of the other disychok

writers.

When (LINLUCK) explained the cooperative

nature of

"LIANCHOR, the

"SL IMPARCIAL" man told (LINLUCK) that be

could never hope to collect fees for his news service

until the service became both famous and sought after.

He suggested that 1f

persuade firgt class writers to contribute to

LIANCKOR puroly for the prestige of having their material

published around Latin America.

Effectivoness of LIANCHOR Writer Group and LINLUCK) as

a Covert Action Production Unit:

a. (LINLUCK) learned quickly that it was best not to

allow meetings of members of the LIANCHOR cooperative

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA-34792

press

Of nine persons who belonged to the group

ag of

15 January, three subsequently dropped out because

of differences of opinion which developed at group meet-

1ng8.

In addition, LINLUCK) learded that persons he had

selected partly because of their leftist record (Iden-

titles 3, 4,

7 and 8) had:long since ceased being leftists

and were prone to submit

manuscripts with texts politically

harmful to the image of LIANCHOR.

Confused political

thinking and poor writing resulted in rejection of over

20 manuscripts during February-April by LINLUCK and the

case officer. Rejection of manuscriptslin turn angered

and insulted

some of the writers.

writers have presented problema to (unick so drecting

D. The personalities and character

and developing the LIANCHOR group into, a productive unit.

Identities,

3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 had to be goaded continually

by LINLUCK to turn

In manuscripts on assigned thenes.

3othyIdentfty-3 and Identity-7 turned out to be emotional

extremists,

suffering at times from deep melancholy and

at other times from inexplainable rages which were te

flocted in their writings.

As of this writing the Station

feels that the only rellable members of the group are

Identities 6 and 9, who should be kept as members of the

group as long as LIANCHOR is run as a group cooperative

press

service.

The unreliable but brilliant and versatile

poet/writer/lexirographer Identity-s should be continued

as a contact of LIANCHOR for occagional emergency use

rovided LINLUCK'& replacement can obtain any cooperation

from Identity-5.0 In summary the LIANCHOR group composed

of Identities 3, 4, 5,

7 and 8 has proved ineffective and.

not too

productive

and the ineffective members should be

replaced.

10. Effectiveness of P/A LINLUCK)

2.

The list of articles and

features by LINLUCK)

under

Separate Cover

Attachment "B" is by no means the

measure of the agent's writing and production capability.

After the agent dusted off and mailed out several of his

old

article

series in December 1968 the case officer

instructed,(LINLUCK) to reduce his production in ratio to

the manuscripts of other LIANCHOR writers which were

mailed out.

The case officer was concerned that LIANCHOR

would appearoto potential client newspapers to be primarily

(LINLUCK's lengthy political essays in con-

trast to the statement in the LIANCHOR prospectus that

LIANCHOR was a press service combining articles on cultural,

educational, economic and social as well as political topics

by many writers.

During the agent's two final months of

service he has

been given authorization to write as much

as be can on the Vietnam Issue and other topica for the

purpose of building up his name in Guatemala before he

returns there to enter politics.

b.

While production of articles was not (LINLUCK's

weak point, his selection and handling of the LIANCHOR

press service writers appears to have been weak.

He has

been too long on the fringes of the foreign exile group

In Mexico and his contacts among leftists in Mexico are

no longer significant.

In addition, the agent appears to

have gone the way of many former Latin American Communists

In that hig theoretical solution to some of the political,

economic and social problems of Latin America can no longer

be termed leftist.

APERTURE

GARO

REPHODUGTIGNS

---

## Page 7

A-0000 ONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA- 34792

• c..

As a penetration of a Communist Party LINLUCK

was a singleton. Although as a former Commurist leader

he hag had experience in handling people, he has not

had experience in handling sub agents for WOFIRM.

There

was evidence during the reporting period that (LINLUCKO

was having real trouble managing his co-workerg in

LIANCHOR.

However, handicapped by the fact that he was

not paying his co-workers fees or salaries, LINLUCK) 0|

probably did as well is he could in controlling his

co-workers.

The real fault lay ir his poor selection

of co-workers.

11.

Effectiveness of_LIANCHOR Articles and Features:

in

the Station's opinion thosa articles whichLINLUCK)wrote were

forceful

and effective, but too long.

The articles written by

J' LINLUCK'g co-workers apparently were ineffective to the point

that they were not considered worth publishing.

newspaper chain of Venezuela apparently felt that LINLUCK's)ol

articles were well worth running, despite the fact that they

had to be published in installments.

The leading newspapers

1D.

each or th

hat (LINLUCK ,] Central Américan republics appeared to belleve

publication. It is

assumed that LINLUCK'sarticles were published regularly in

Bolivia duelto La Paz Station assistance:

However, because no ol

newspaper felt like paying fees to LIANCHOR or answering (LINLUCK'S)

correspondence, it has not been possible to ascertain whether

LIANCHOR articles have been published with any regularity in

Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Colombia or Ecuador.

It 1s

too much

to ask

third country stations to scan the press dally for articles

by seven different people.

the

City Stationg which have been the principal source of the clip-

pings of LINLUCK'S LIANCHOR articles submitted as

Separate Cover

SECURITY

12... There have been no incidents of security nature

hazardous to the LIANCHOR project during the reporting period.

FINANCE AND SUPPORT

13.

Finance:

During 1 October - 30 May the LIANCHOR

project expensesyhave consisted of. U.s. $5,600 in salary pay-

ments to(LINLUCK at U.S. $700 per month and U.S. $119 in cost

of mailing out LIANCHOR

articles.

Support: Reproduction of the LIANCHOR articles for

distribution to Latin American newspapers was done by the

Station using a Xerox machine.

PLANS

15.

Replacement of LINLUCK:

Provided Headquarters grants POA and Identity-1

accepts recruitment by a Station case officer, LINLUCK

will be directed to approach Identity-l some two weeks

after the recruitment.ol(LINLUCK)will tell Identity-l that

ne has come to Identity-l on the advice of Identity-6,

LIANCHOR member and friend of Identity-1.0| (LINLUCK) will

explain that he 1s returning to Guatemala to seek a poli

tical career and must give up the direction of LIANCHOR

---

## Page 8

14-00000

•- CUNIINUAUNUS

DISPAICA

•S E. C-RE T'

I HMMА-34792

16-2

because LIANCHOR cannot properly be run from Guatemala..

• LINLUCK will describ

to Identity-l the problems which

de has had in developing LIANCHOR and, in asking Identity-

to take over control of LIANCHOR, will suggest that

Identity-1

use the LIANCHOR name

tion outlets to broaden his prestige in Latin,

WIthout any thought of trying to an estimuck all

also suggest that Identity-l rotain Identities 6 and 9 to

help fill out the service,

draw in personal writer friends oi definite leftist fame

and persuade them to contribute to LIANCHOR

the reward of increased

prestige.

offer to continue to contribute meterial from time

time from Guatenala which Identity-1, through his good

standing in the Mexican press, perhaps can publigh in

Mexico.

b. If Identity-l rejects recruitment, the next candi-

date for LIANCHOR

chief is Identity-10, who hag already

told LIN.UCK) that he is prepared to take over LIANCHOR

on a proo lonary basis

to see whether it will enhance his

reputatio..

The Station feels that Identity-10 would be

easter to recruit than Identity-1.

However,

Identity-10

is not too well known in Mexico and is totally unknown

abroad.

One of Identity-10's virtues is the fact that he

never formally quit the Communist Party and has done nothing

to irritate the Party.

As economic and general reporter for

'EXCELSIOR" he offers

placement potential.

If Identity-1

does accept recruitment, the Station still intends to try

to recruit Identity-10 as a singleton under Project LIANCHOR,

possibly steering

Identity-10 to Identity-l and the LIANCHOR

press

service after due consideration.

The Station is also

interested in the possibility of recruiting Identity-10 in

order to send him

to the World Youth Festival at. Sofia,

since it is believed by'(LINLUCK) that Identity-l still has

access to some

worthwhile contactg in Central American

north i rock

young Communist circles.

16.

Testing for Indications of Effectiveness to Determine

Future Direction of LIANCHOR Project:

It is estimated that it will not cost over U.s.

$200 to hire clipping services in Buenos Aires, Montevideo,

Santiago and Bogota for a three month trial period to test

whether newspapers which receive LIANCHOR material in those

citles are publishing the LIANCHOR material. The clipping

serviceg will be agked to watch for articles with the

LIANCHOR by-line, the by-lines of LIANCHOR writers and the

headlines or titles which are assigned by LIANCHOR to the

If the clipping service tests show that newspapers

or periodicals in two of the above cited countries are

publishing LIANCHOR material, Station will continue to

pursue the development of a small and responsive leftist

writer group as one phase of the LIANCHOR operation.

rationale behind this decision is that there is little

justification in operating a press service, even a cheap

one, with a readership limited to Mexico, Central America,

Venezuela and Bolivia.

However, if the press service can

acquire, or has acquired, readership in any two of the

countries in 16a above then it is felt that the total

ared coverage is significant and worth maintaining.

17. Conversion of LIANCHOR to Temporary Roof Project for

singleton Leftist Writer Assets: Il as a result of clipping

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CONTINUATIONOF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA - 34792

service tests the decision is reached not to continue develop

ment of a leftist writer group press service, LIANCHOR will be

converted to a roof project for the administration and funding

of singleton writer agents.

Identity-1, 1f recruited, will be

told

the LIANCHOR stationery and

list of publishing

newspapers to develop It: own prestige and readership abroad,

but he will not be agli. to find additional writers for the

press service.

At the ind of FY 1969 the LIANCHOR project will

be terminated

as such and Its fundg and such agents as have

been developed under LIANCHOR will be documented under Project

LILISP-E for FY 1970.

i l.

for, Willard C. CURTIS

APERTUNE CARU REPROOUOTIONS

---

## Page 10

00.000

SECRE

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT

to HMMA-34792

IDENTITIES:

211

06,08

Ricardo *GARIBAY Orteca, ‹independent

Mexican

socialist, political editorialist in

'EXCELSIOR"

Land prize-winning author of political books.

2 - F'PRENSA SELECTA INTERNACIONAL," J 29

3

Eunice ODIO Infante, a naturalized Guatemalan

and writes for "EL SOL"

"and "EL DIA".

4 - Alfonso

#MARTINEZ Estevez,

former personal

secretary to deposed Guatemalan Communist presj-

dent

• Jacobo, ARBENZ.>

5

-

Ernesto de La *PENA y Munoz, Texicographer and

linguist employed by Encyclopedia Britannica's

Spanish language edition.

He has a reputation

fair poet in Mexico and writes

Leftiat 'Th DIA" and the center-left "EXCELSIOR']

- 6 - Manuel CALVILLO, Mexican author and editorialist.

1n the Sunday literary

papers.

sections of Mexican news-

06,86

10

"EL UNIVERSAL"

06,08

CP and resident of Moscow.

-FranciscoX*ZENDEJAS, book critic for "EXCELSIOR",

Mexico City TV channel #4 and Radio Station XEW.

He was once personal secretary to Leon TROTSKY..

Chronic alcoholic.

RodrIgo GARCIA Previno, Mexican political author, obiod

bistorian and Iiterary critic.

ReneXARTEAGA, former head of the Young Communists

of El Salvador.

Exiled to Guatemala and later to

Mexico.

Economic reporter for 'EXCELSIOR" and

06,08

formerly for

"EL DIA".

No longer active in CP

CS COPY

• CECRET

11:41

---

