# 104-10186-10099

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10099

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORM ATtON REPORT

ANFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES!

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Policy Guldance Directives for

Cuban Intelligence Representa-

tives in the Dominican Republic

DATE DISTR

RETUANTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nãi Reproduce

CS-311/00166-65:

11 January 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE OfF

1963

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. JUNE 1961

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment.

MA Department no longer exists as

into two departments:

Illegal Department (Ilegal) and Nationa

ibcration Department (Liberacion Nacional

nosea cave this directive was prepared during A 6st eo Suan

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTICN

COUNTRY:

SANTO DOMINGO (sic)

Priority

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

Collective action.

Status of leftist

Dominican Republic Armed Forces.

Training camps and operations bases.

Counterrevolutlonary organizations.

Repressive corps and CIA Santo Domingo.

Status of political parties or groups.

Solidarity with Cuba movement.

Relations with Unlted States.

Church.

12. Armed forces internal situation.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

ISNS

(Nore, Fiold dietribution Indicated by "'#")

TRAVY

TAIR

INSA

AFBI

INFOR

BRON

RERORT

ORM

FLON RER

ORTI

1X-2158

AP (ANHUG-1)

65-311-00106-65

Eur Distibition see Attached Pare

CI/LS

12 (TON AF/OST, NOST, ONL. ST, FBI.

POTALS

IE 3,CI 21, RID/AN 1,4M SA 16(5)

WH 23(33), NF NF , EF EF FE 12(S), SE 7(19)

LIAISON *

: eb

---

## Page 2

NET. 7+11 825-505

Hogrs Dissem

WH/COPS

#H/PO/A

NH/PO/B

WH/1

WH/2

NH/3

NH/3/V

WH/ 4

NH/5

WH/6

NH/&

NH/SA/EOB

#H/SA/MOB

NH/SA/R

NH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS.

CI/Staff

CI/Liaison

CI/RICA

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/ JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/5/P

NE/6/C&I

NE/Intel

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WK

G.TV

1

30

MANNA

1

1

1

1

199

НИНН

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 19 -

NE/1

NE/2

NБ/3

WE/ 4

WE/5

NE/BC

NE/R

Field Dissem

WH/HEXI.

WH/INTY

WH/MRID

NH/ SDON

WH/PIBO

NH.'POSN

WH/KNGS

WH/PRIN

WH/GORG

NH/MANA

WH/SJOS

WH' SALV

WH/TEGU

WH/GUAT

WH/LAPA

#H / BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

WH/LIMA

WH/CARA

WH/BUEN

WH 'COBA

#H/MONT

WH/ASUN

WH/ SAGO

WH/RIOD

WHI/CURI

HH/BRIL

WH/SAOP

WH/ BHIA

WH/BEHO

WH/ LGRE

WH/RECI

NH/SA/WAVE

5

AF/ALGI

AF/ORVA

AF/RABA

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF/ENRY

AF BANO

AF/DARE

EE/VIEN

EE/SBUR

EE/CYRU

EE/ATHE

EE 'SLON

EE/BERN

CS-311'00166-65

EE/GATA

EE/ZURI

EE/HAMS

EE/KAV

FE/DJAK

FE/MEDI

FE/SÜRA

FE/TOKT

FE/OKIE

FE/SEOU

FE/SAIG

FE/KOBE

NE/COLD

NE/NEGD

NE/BOXB

NE/NDES

NE/KUMA

NE:/KAHI

NE/DACC

NE/LARO

NE/RAUL

NE/BACH

NE/BEIR

NE/DANA

NE/ALSP

NE/JIDD

NE/DAMA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ ALAY

WE/BRES

WE/COPE

WE/HELS

WE/OTT.A

WE/ROME

WE/MILA

WE/HAGU

WE/OSLO

WE LISB

WE ALADR

WE/BAKC

WE/STOC

WE/LOND

WE, PIRI

Liaison Dissem

IE/Canada

(RCHP)

/WasHBRT

1

1

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

99

---

## Page 3

4-00000

S-E-C'-R-E-T

DO FUREIGN DISSEN

- 2 -

CS-311/00466-65

Important

14. The press.

Necessary

18: Structure oh national can and functions of see organs.

INFORMATION GUIDELINES AND OBJECTIVES

COUNTRY:

SANTO DOMINGO

Priority

1.

Collective Action.

a)

Political and military agreements adopted by reglonal organs

gainst cuba in which the Bosch government participates.

Meetings

in which the sovernment's participation in the

adoption

thereof may be agreed on.

Dominican government pro-

posals on the. Cuban case, and collective aggression.

Participation of the government in troops in the aggression,

units

which would particlpate in the aggression, their chiefs

and strength.

Joint military maneuvers which may be held in Dominican

territory by Latin American armies. Participating armies

and units thereof.

d)

Sol. (sic;

soldiers?) such as mercer-

of the Plaza Giron type, etc.

Plans of provocations devised by the Dominican government

to show Cuban Government intervention in the

country's internal affairs.

t) Measures on travel to or from Cuba.

& Possibil rees to a carelations by countries that

2. Status of Leftist Forces

a Progressive dress errantation readers stry trussle

b) Possibility for arred struggle.

c) Corcesdictions and desree of unity among the leftist

d)

Publications--circulation.

Repression against loftist forces.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FUREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 4

4-00000

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3 -

CS-311/00166-65

" Court a conne changere a way to are in a

Student, peasalon ad late movemen sos neat serenesh,

J.S. and Church penetration in the mass organizations (labor,

casant, student)

1) Possibilitles of spontancous manifestations of strugglo.

1) Possibilities of guerrilla movement: groups, organizations,

leaders,

weapons, pupular support, sclationg with the left-

Ist forces.

• k) Struggle in the city:

groups, leaders, form of work, Tole

of the

labor and student movement, relations with the left-

ist forces, and with groups operating in the countryside.

1) Relations of exiles with the insurrecttonal movement.

3. Armed Forces of the Dominican Republic

a) Organization of the Dominican Armed Forces, units, and

strength of the various

corps.

Bases, barracks, weapons, and

transport of the Armed Forces. Locations.

bi Budgetary allocations of the Armed Forces; allocations to

each branch (Navy, Air Force, and Aimy).

Existing bilateral agreements with the Unlted States of a

secret naturo.

Secret or publie military pacts cnlered into by Santo Domingo

the Caribbean

arca, agrcements by them con-

corning special arrangements.

Yankce military missions.

Names, ranks, and functions of

their members, their duties.

Armed Forces units with anti-guerrilla training, their

strength, time spent in anti-guerrilla training, instructors

it, weapons, and tramsportation in the possession of

the units.

Leaders of the units.

§ Other battalions oi special

units (parichutists,

Rangers,

units and strength, their leaders, transport, and weapons.

h) Changes in armament: quantity and charcteristics of the

new weapons acquired.

i) Participation by Dominican units

in Contral American or

Caribbean mlitary manouvers, units partleipating, strength,

their leaders.

S-b.-C.-R-F,-T

SU FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

S-F'-8-F-E-T

NO FORTIUS DISSEM

CS-311/00.806-65

1. The Duminican Communtst Paris (Dominican Popular Sueialist Party,

PSPD)

a) Attitudo toward the Second Harand Declaration.

b) Attitude toward Cuban-Soriet relations.

Attitudo toward Cuba's political activitios of a national

or intornational nature.

d)

Position in regard to the disagreements in the international

communist movemont.

e) In tho caso of China and the USSR.

1) In the caso of Albania and the USSR.

8) As regards Yugoslavla, China, the USSR, and Albania.

h) As rogards Poace.

1) Regarding poacoful cocristence.

j) Internal status of the Party.

k) Forces.

1) Leaders (Information concerning them.

m) Disagrcements.

n)

Relations with other leftist forces, disagreements, possi-

bilities

for unification.

ñ) Methods of castiting officially adopted by the Parts.

o) Attitude of the Party toward the elections.

p) Relations with the bourgeois parties and the government.

WOrk

for

solidarity with Cuba.

I) Publicity media.

S)

the pspablushment of permanent and comporary contact with

Relations

of the PSPD with other Latin-American Marxist

parties.

5. Training Camps and Operational Bases

Location of training camps for Cuban mercenarles, number

of mercenaries in them.

Type and duration of training,

orcanizations participatine Leaders of the camps.

Plans and missions of

clements being trained.

Place

where the Cuban mercenaries go, recruitment locations.

Porticipation by national elements in the training of

mercenaries of foreign nationality.

S-E.-C-N-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEU

---

## Page 6

14-00000

6.

7.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

= 5.

CS-311/00166-65

l) Presence of counterrerolutionary elements

in the Dominican

armed forces; names, assignments, and functions.

c) Location of counterrevolutionary operational bases on

ominican sold: type of bases.

Water craft or alrcraft

prosent on them.

Counterrevolutionary organtzation. which

appcars at the head of them.

Elements participating.

of water craft. and their characteristics.

Type

Their weapons,

and plans of attack; datos whon they are to bo

Counterrevolutionary_Orkantzations

a) Cuban counterrevolutionary organizations which are function-

ing in Santo Domingo; their leaders.

Their contact with:

governmen't personnel, especially with people in the new

regimo who are responsiblo for establishiny such contact.

b)

d)

Contact by the Bosch government with the magazine Bohemis'

in Exile of Miguel Angel Quevedo; financial support givon

it by him, and through whom.

Contact with Carlos Prío and elements linked with the PRC:

assistance to them.

Contact with

the countorrovolutionary

organizations; contact with the political parties; elements

through which it is effected.

Methods of communication by the elements in Santo Domingo:

with the counterrerolutionary conters

In Miami; through

whon the communications

are established, and what means are

used

for this

purpose.

Outaining documents which prove that the Dominican govorn-

ment olves economie assistance to the countorrovolutionary

{)

Counterrevolutionaries who arc now working in the Dominican

state apparalus of

in Yankee aid institutions; disagreements

betweon them and the Dominican workers.

e) Connect or between he Uncerers proving these connecti

Documents proving these connections.

Repressive Bodies and CIA, Santo Domingo

Repress bodies which auried only tatemer leaders

functions.

Activities carried on by them.

and principal ofticers. Working methous.

Plans and ob-

1)

c)

Intelligence organizations functioning in Santo Domingo.

Leaders.

Elements abroad.

Their dutics and functions.

Activities carried

Plans and objectives of Dominican

ntelligence, principally against Cuba

Trujillist cle-

ments

still funetsoning

inside this body; duties and

functions.

Cooperation between the Dominican repressive bodies and

those

of

the litan Anerican countries, especially those

of Central America.

S-F-C-R-F-T

SU FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 7

4-00000

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEY

CS-311/00466-65

d) Hectingy huld with them; dates. and personnel participating

in the mectings; locations.

P.ints discussed,

agreements

arrived it against Cuba, and tie Norement of lational Libora-

t1on.

Plans and objectives of the national security forces

with

regard to che dovement of sational Liberation, acans

and resourong mobilized, agents infiltrated into the poll-

tical movements, repressive airhods prescribed.

e) Contacts with Interpol, Cooperation with it. Restrictive

measures regarding trips to Cuba. Agents.

{) Foreign advisers of the repressive forces and intelligence

bodies; namcB,

ranks,

and positions; their functions; cases

in which they

have participated.

ationals who are working for the ClA; names, ranks, a

positions.

Their methods and plans.

urpose of the

work.

8. Status of the Parties or Political Groups

. penetration, factions,

b) Participation in the government.

Relations

of the political

parties

monopolies, the Church, and

pare Somed Forhe Embassy, the

ment, the Yankce Embassy,

e) Provenience of the funds of the pulitical parties.

1) Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revo-

lution.

g) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

In regard to Cuban-Soviet relations, in questions which

affect Cuba

and world peace.

1) Concerning rightist and extrems rightist groups.

j) Reactions to the conomic and polatical changes taking

place

in Cuba..

9. Movement for Soldarity with Cuba

a) Possibility of active demonstrations in favor of Cuba:

groups, leaders, strength, organization, participants,

relations with the forces

of the leit and other progres-

sive forces.

b)

Repression directed at the moreneat for solidarity with

Cuba.

S-F-C-R-F-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

---

## Page 8

4-00000

S-F.-8. -H-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-7.

CS-311/00466-65

Propaganda campaigns for and against.

Perlodicals; theres.

10.

Relatlong with the United States

a) Alliance for Progress,

b) The Anierican Embassy.

Information on the activitieg of the.

Ambassador and the personnel of the Embassy.

Relations with

the reactionary organizations.

Relations with the Church.

Govornment functionarles in close contact with the Embassy.

11. The Church

a) Ecclesiastical hierarchy, Information concerning 1t.

Attitude and disagrecments between the national clergy and

foreign countries.

Participation by the Church in the internal politics of

the country.

d)

Secular organizations of the Church (such as young people,

Catholic labor, Catholie knights).

e) Penetration of the Church into the educational system of

the country on varloug levels.

12. Internal Status of the Armed Porces

Information on the military chiefs and the activities they

carry on. Groups they risserve.

Irends and disagreements.

Important

13. Functions cerate be and Coops doon too Connery

Foreign Service of

United

Nations, Organization of American States, the JID

Inter-American Defense Board/.

b) Latin American functionaries in this country.

To work with

the diplomatic circles accredited to the country.

14: The Press

Information on journalists and dissemination organs.

Possibllity of making

uer of them.

Journalists in

the

country and abroad.

Regut red

15. Status of the National Economy

a) United States Investments (now

and old).

b) Participation by

industry, commerce, priculture garchy in the economy.

c) Utilization and location of Trujillo's property.

d) Trond of the lovel ul unemployment.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 9

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 8 .

CS-311/00168-65

c)

Relations of the country in regard to Central American

economie intogration.

Possibility uf a new economie polley of the United Stater

monopolies in the country.

Need for obtaining collnborators who will inform us perlodi-

cally on cconomic questlong.

16.. Structuro of the Governmont and Functloning of Its Apparatus

a) Character of the governmont, program, international polley.

• b) Rolations between the Prosidoncy and the ministries.

c)

Functioning of the Congress.

important laws.

judiciary with

Information on personalities connected with Juan Bosch.

NO

N-a-C-1-2-1

FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

