# 104-10069-10359

## Page 1

HAA

104-10069-10359

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 -

22642:

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHI

JUBJECT: (Optiora!)

Current address of Kaurice alperin

FROM:

Chief, Cortact Pivision (Support) Stuntz

TO: (Officer dosignation, room number, ans

DATE

beilding!

RECEIVED...

FORMAROTO

EXTENSION

2258

OFFICER'S

INTRALS

Do vage, say fany

112708

contact listen ped ting

3.

4.

5.

7.

Livi

#H 729

131 DEC 52,1

MAGENTS (Mutate euch commort to shom from ur

nu a lino girass coluten after oach: comme.

I an gerding this to the follain

Trw

SR/CI

CI/ LN

Security

mago

10.

Eave wheit the

WH729=

12.

13.

14.

15.

PrEVIOUS

PBM 610 SETONS A SECRET

INTERNAL

USE: ONLY

- 720

UNCLASSIFIED

# 09254

---

## Page 2

14รท09000

00143) 3.246:932

W SYRO_806

27 December 1962

subject: Current Address of Murice Felperin

procee le

1.

A source of this office has just advised us that he received

a Christmas card (1962) from Maurice Helperin on which the return addr

WAS Elven aB: "Apt C-2, Cello 12, no 103, Mramer, Habane, Cuba: Tho

only message on the card was one of Christmas greetings. Helperto and

our source have: known each other for a number of years and they (alveys

exchange Christmas cards. Into 1s the first one Helperin has sent with

& Cuban address on 1t. The last time that our source saw Belpertn was;

In Moscow when he (the former) ras Viesting In the USSR during Auguet-

September 1961 as part of an official US delegation.:

2. In view of Halperin's past activities and associations, we are

making this information known to you!! Our source comments that Helperin

always seems to show up wherever there 1e some sort of activity, going on.

*end-

CIA INTERNAL UNE

ONLY

SECRET

BH-729

---

