# 104-10102-10237

## Page 1

104-10102-10237

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIC NONS

PRO

POSED

TO

INFO.

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

MARLA DrA

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM.

ACCOM

PLISHEN

FROM

Chief of Station, JMWAVE AKR

SUBJECT Operational/TYPIC/AMTRUNK

Project AMTRUNK Operational Review.

ACTION REQUIRED.- REFERENGESS

PRIORITY

ACTION:

Request Headquarters decision on continuation or

termination of Project AMTRUNK.

Attached herewith is an operational review of and progress

report on the AMTRUNK team

for the period of 4 through 31 March.

Station views on the operation are summarized below.

2.

nesses:

The AMTRUNK operation has the following disadvantages

or weak-

MIPIEND

The AvTrunkers admit to being anti-KUBARK and to be working

these agents

Will cooperate With KUbArk only wien it is to|their advantage.

is believed that if the operation were to develop, control would

diminish rather than increase in the advanced stages of the operation,

since the need for KUBARK assistance will decrease as operational

successes increase.

It is believed that AMICh 27 would have no

hesitation

"selling out" the operation to any one of the major re-

Tugee political groups at any time that he felt it advantageous to

do so.

It is believed that, if he is not already doing so, he is

most likely to collaborate with either the Segundo Frente del Es-

cambray,

headed by Eloy

by Manuel Ray. In the meantime AMICE/27

Gutierrez Menoyo, or the MRP faction headed

will attempt to have his

own way with

the operation.

authority.if the operation or KUBARK handling of thei

AMTRUNKS does

not progress to his liking. Since AMTRUNK/1, according

to AMCAPE/1, "masterminded" this operation in the first place, it may

be assumed that the AMTRUNKS will withhold nothing from AMTRUNK/1.

Distribution:

3 - C/SAS w/attchs

DESENSTTIZED

803 854 47-43

02801196773 19-6-943

Тода: 1

IDL

CROSS REFERENCE TO U 7 ani.

PESINCATO

I CRET

TATE

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

I!P

15 April 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA- 8381

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

412922

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF -

DISPATCH

S

TO SNATON

FOR Birda

INSPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA - 8381

AMTRUNK/1 in turn may be expected to keep AMCAPE/1

There is ho KUBARK control over AMTRUNK/1, OF

fully informed.

AMCAPE/1

This operation has a very high "flap potential"

if any AMTRUNK

agents are picked up by. the opposition

Not only will

RUBARK stand to suffer, but ODACID will be tied directly in to the

operation, as may also QKFLOWAGE, by whom AMTRUNK/1 is employed,

and cApEand his newspaper

The latter could prove to be most

mbarrassing and should be fully recognized as a possibility,

not a probability, in the event any of the AMTRUNK team fall

Castro's hands..

• The security of this operation has certain questionable aspects.

At least six people were told about the operation in varying degrees

prior to the

time the team was safehoused.

two of the agents.

AMICE/27 and AMICE/ 14, did not satisfactorily

LOPLUTTER" tests.

I believed that cen

Is vi cano ains information of an unknowa nature trom his KUBARK con~

An undercurrent of friction has recently developed between

AMICE/14 and AMTRUNK/3 which manifested itself in a fistfight on

29 March.

This was precipitated by AMTRUNK/3 who called AMICE/14

the Cuban term for a.

homosexual, the ultimate insult to a Cuban.

This in turn gives rise to the

question whether AMICE/14, with a

possible history of homosexual activity (see UFGA-8411), has made

such an approach to AMTRUNK/3.

D.

The commitments made to AMICE/27 or which AMICE/27 claims were

made to him are a matter of concern to the Station.

This is an

area over which future misunderstanding or aggravation might easily

develop.

E. The Phase I landing point appears highly risky. It is within

five miles of a cruise missile site radar, and in an area frequently

patrolled by sea.

Fions aimed a150 at penetrating high matary levels to the shera

tions aimed also at penetrating high

for the same

To len tie lack one a the AntRunk operation, nee

possibility of the two operations crossing or targetting on the same

individual will be present.

3. In examining the strengths of the AMTRUNK operation, the AMTRUNK

group as a whole represents superior agent materiel.

Three of the

four have been outstanding in training.

they appear to have a

number of lairly well placed contacts on the inside whom they ex-

pect to be able to call on for assistance.

Although they have

been out of direct touch with a number of these contacts for period

up to two years,

this is frequently. the case in this type

of operation. The objective of the operation is worthwhile.

4.

Based on the attached operational review and the advantages and

tation that this operation be terminated at the easies, possuul

oment, Since this operation originated at the Headquarters leve

it is requested that Headquarters advise JMWAVE as

to its decision.

training and planning will continue.

"If Head-

quarters'

decision is to continue with the operation at this line,!

operational plans for Phase I and Phase II will be submitted as

formulated.

END OF MESSAGE

3:745

•ORM

5-60

530

1401

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2.

---

## Page 3

Razoted frOn ProfoOt AMTAU, VK

CB ClaBBItICA+10D3 19-6-8713

08+08-446/16

31 March 1963

PROJECT AMTRUNK OPERATIONAL REVIEW

I.

STATUS REPORT ON TRAINING AND PROCESSING, 4-31 MARCH.

The AMTRUNK Team, consisting of AMICE/27;

AMICE/14, AMTRUNK/2,

•and AMTRUNK/3 were safehoused on 4 March 1963 at Safesite #164

on Plantation Key.

Andrew S. PARMERS, KUROAR instructor from

headquarters, was already at the training site when the team

was brought there by the two case officers, Irving N.

PEGGINS

and Hobart J. VANDEBORN.

PARMERS remained at the safesite

until 16 March during which time he conducted training in

clandestine methods and techniques.. This

training included

security, cover and compartmentation, clandestine communica-

tions, agent spotting, selection, recruitment and management,

and operational planning

and reporting.

The training included

group discussion and participation in a series of 'appropriate

operational situations, several problems, and daily physical

training.

During this two week period, either PEGGINS or

VANDEBORN visited the safesite every day, spending an average

of two or three hours with the group in operational dis-

cussions and processing.

During the week of 18 thru 23 March,

both case officers spent a majority of the time with the group,

debriefing them in detail on their operational contacts, workin

out operational details of their infiltration, and continuing

their training on an informal basis.

The week of 25 through

30 March was

spent in PM-type training with emphasis on compass

and map reading, including two night problems, and on weapons

familiarization

and firing.

During the period under dis-

cussion the AMTRUNK group were all LCFLUTTERED, were assessed

by the KUROAR assessment team, were given an initial series

of immunizations, were issued clothing, were processed for

alias documentation, were processed for disguises, and were

further processed on cover and finance problems.

The re-

sults of the LCFLUTTER examinations were

sent to headquarters

under cover of UFGA-8111, on 13 March 1963.

Based on DIR

26430, no further LCFLUTTER is planned at the present time.

Transmitted as attachment "A" to this dispatch

is PARMERS

report on his training of the AMTRUNK group, transmitted as

attachment "B" are the results of the assessments of the

AMTRUNK group,

and transmitted as attachment "C" is the

training report for the week of 25 March.

II.

ANTRUNK MISSION OBJECTIVE

government by means

high level military and civitian leaders of the government

culminating in a coup d'etat which

39-274079

DESENSIFZED

SEE CHRA

pes 054-49-45

i ';

C

---

## Page 4

- 2 -

the communists from power.

A secondary and subordinate

to determine the clinate prevailing among the

populace in Havana for organizing resistance elements capable

of either passive or active sabotage.

This secondary mission

is exploratory in nature only,

through the first phases of

the project.

In order

to accomplish the foregoing missions:

the operation has been split into two initial phases, which

will be compartmented from each other..

Phase One involves

the black infiltration

of AMTRUNK/2 and 3 on the north coast

of havana province.

These two individuals plan to go into

Havana for a period of approximately two weeks, and ther

exfiltrate black

same point at which

they infiltrated.

will consist of

These two individuals will likewise go into

Havana for a period of several weeks and then exfiltrate black.

These two phases are discussed in detail in following para-

graphs. Phasfulne and Phase Two are preliminary infiltrations

designed to set up infiltration exfiltration routes and to

make initial contacts among certain select high level military

figures in Havana.

The following paragraphs discussing these

phases are not designed

to be operational plans.

Detailed

operational plans

for each phase will be forwarded as de-

III. PHASE I.

A. AMTRUNK Personnel

1. AMTRUNK/2 is a 2 year old Cuban who is mature for his

years, and in some degree experienced in clandestine opera-

He attended Catholic Sootal University in Havana

two years,

majoring in Social Studies.

Prior to Fidel's

allied to student elements of the Partido

Autentico which upheld the constitution of 1940.

the revolution against Batista

till it became apparent

Castro had cast his lot for a Communist regime.

During his

university years from 1959 to 1961 he was actively engaged

in supporting anti-Castro groups with weapons and materials.

Following the Playa Giron invasiona great many in the Havana

underground were rolled up but A/2 avoided compromise.

continued in this work through 1961 and finally left Cuba

histraining.

He is a pensive individual who displays good

judgement wait and sear

His present attitude towards KUBARK appears to

In the meanwhile, he is con-

scientiously applying himself in preparation for his mission.

ECR EX'

---

## Page 5

_ 3 -

2. ATRUNK/3. a

2 year old Cuban, in contrast to A/2, is

volatire immature and impulsive

On the other hand he is

quite loyal to A/2 and his quick wit is appealing to his

fellow team members.

He worked under A/2 in the underground

as an action type, principally engaging in

underground work began while he was

in

sabotage.

His

secondary

school

when in 1958 he supported the revolution

In late 1960 he sided

with the

against

Batista.

counter-revolutionaries

and

began full time anti-Castro activities.

After

the cräck

down following

the Bay of Pigs invasion he

avoided detection

and continued to engage in underground activities.

Finally

when the situation

became hopeless he left Cuba by air for

Miami in August 1962.

While A/3 has performed satisfactorily

in his training up to date, his performance falls far short

of the other three members.

B.

Fortunately his

role in this operation is comparatively minor and he appears

willing to comply with whatever A/2 decides.

Nevertheless,

direct control of A/3 offers problems in the future.

TASKS

1.

Conduct black infiltration landing at Punta La Jijira

(AMS 3785I) and establish contact with the farm manager at

A/svesta there ariy in the Calery section CAMS 38850181

Coords 993614)

2.

Through contacts of A/3 obtain transportation for A/2

to Guanaba or Havana.

Although not definite, A/3 may remain at his father is

farm and train assets in maritime reception and clandestine

communications.

Having completed this he would then be ex-

filtrated

at Punta Jijira.

4.

A/2 will go to Havana and obtain safehöuse and operational

support through his contacts.

A/2 will contact and develop two potential assets with

high level connections within the Rebel Army.

6. A/2 will train support and operational assets in clandes-

tine communications as well as arrange for

transportation for

his exfiltration.

Exfiltration of A/2 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido

(AMS

3885

II).

---

## Page 6

C.

INFIL-EXFIL PLANS

The tentative date for the infiltration of A/2 and 3 at

Punta La Jijira is 18 May 1963.

The infiltrees will make

their way toa

ss Fathere farm

one kilometer from

the coast

and from there A/2 will be provided with transportation to go

to Guanabo or Havana.

2. The exfiltration of A/3 will occur three days after his

infiltration.

This arrangment, as yet, is not definite.

3.

The exfiltration of A/2 is tentatively planned for 31

May 1963 at Punta La Jijira

or Puerto Escondido.

A/3 feels

that Puerto Escondido would afford

a more secure point for

exfiltration but that a reconnaisance of the area would be

necessary before final decision is reached.

Prearranged

telegram

signal would indicate his preference.

dates fall within a favorable moon phase

maritime operations.

In addition the infil-exfil schedule.

will allow for an extra margin beyond the 10 days which A/2

considers the minimum acceptable period of time to make his

contacts.

D. OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

1. Following the successful infiltration of A/2 and 3 the

two men will work their way to a farm owned jointly bywas

Lather and Santos StARry, located lilometer from

the point

of infiltration.

the

They will make contact with the manager of

named Pedro CRUZ. CORiz is 85 to 40 years of age,

is

married and

has an elementary

school education.

no record

underground activity.

A/3 will depend upon

CRUZ to make the following contacts

in order to obtain

transportation to Guanabo or Havana:

a .

Roman HERNANDEZ,

who lives a few kilometers away in

Stecca del Arzootspo. HERNANDED ownS a small farm and a

butcher shop in the area and also owns a truck.

He is

37 to 40 years of age,

married with six or seven children.

He was jailed for a

brief period in the past for counter-

revolutionary activities.

b. If CRUZ is unsuccessful in getting ERN

truck

he will contact Augusto MACHin who operates

a farm next

to 3s father's

farm.

He is 045-50 years old, married,

no children,

wife's name is caltoia.

He was the mayor. of

Santa Cru

-Nor te

lin 1954. He owns a jeep.

SECRET

14 - 6

---

## Page 7

S RICAR. E

=5

c .

Another contact of A/3 is cRamon CAlVAbLED,

age 21.

single,

8th

grade education.

He provided support in

the form of food and safehousing

to underground workers

in the past. His home address is tarojost, Botoror

Havana.

He owns a butched shop in the Cotorio section

of Havana.

Subject will be contacted by A/3 if he needs

to be safehoused in Havana.

The following assets would be contacted by A/2 after

arriving

will be contacted in

listed.

Their function will be to provide safehouses and

vehicles for A/2:

Elsa. Mar.

a NEGRIN

years of

born in Havana.

A/2 first met her when she

student at the University

of Havana majoring in Social Sciences.

Presently she

lives with her aunt in Havana and A/2 has maintained cor-

respondence with her.

She has helped previously

providing safehousing for the underground.

She also has

sage 55, born in Havana.

He is a phystorad

who lives and practices medtome in

GUESTAS

has helped A/2 in underground activi-

ties previously.

He has a brother,

two daughters and

a son now residing in the U.S.

His daughters live in!

New Jersey and were last seen

by A/2 about six months

Subject was a member of the Partido Pueblo Cubano,

anti-Batista group,

and was a professor of medicine»

at the University

of Havana up until 1961 when he re-

signed. EctStAS is also a close friend of Elsa NEGRIN

Sergio MINDEZ, age about 607 born in Cienfuegos,

former senator st

as well as

the

former head of

the

Subject was originally a member

of

the Autentico Party

and claimed to be

a KUBARK con-

fidante during Castro's takeover.

MMNDEZ has an apart-

ment and two

cars and has previously helped A/2 in under-

ground activities.

He has

a daughter who works for the

government but is

not sympathetic to the regime.

The

husband of this daughter,

however, works

for che Guevasa

A/2 has maintained correspondence

with MENDEZ.

d.

isabel MiNOCol, age about 35, born

in Havana,

single.

Subject is

an english

teacher

who runs

a small

private

tutoring school in English in Havana.

She was A/2's

English teacher and offered support to the underground.

MINOCOL lives by herself, has

an automobile and is a

close friend of A/2 and his wife.

B CRET

---

## Page 8

e.

AMCIALLA, age

23-246

mother and

father

deceased.

born in Havana,

single;

She attended the University

of Havana and

Villanova from 0959 to 1960.

She became

a close friend of A/2 during their student days in

Havana.

She has no record of underground work.

She

lives in Guanabo Beach during the summer.

A/2 felt he

might attempt to contact her if she was living at

Guanabo Beach in order to safehouse A/3 there if necessai:

3.

The following two operational assets will be contacted

A/2 after he is

safehoused in Havana.

by

Their function will be

to spot Army officers disaffected with the Castro Regime.

(Jorge VANS.

age late 30s early 40s, married.

Subject

holds

the rank of Captain in the Rebel Army but is not

presently on active duty.

He was a friend öf Castro's

during the revolution and A/2 claims he still maintains

some contact with Fidel.

He also claims WAtS has been

working in a limited fashion against Fidel and was

originally associated with the MRR and Monte Cristo

groups. VAlS primary interest has been trying to or-

ganize

his friends within the Rebel Army against Fidel.

A/2 feels VAlS is a very discreet individual who has

not been identified as

an anti-Castro organizer by

the G=2.

A/2 claims to be a close friend of wArs and

trusts him completely.

"A/2 saw and talked to VALS in

1962 prior to his flying out of PBRUMEN as a refugee.

b.

Jose DUARTE Oropesa, age early: 403, served in the

U.S. Army during World War II.

According to A/2,

(QUARTE was made commander of the oth Military Districts

by Camilio cientuegos?:

Following the disappearance of

(Clentuegos, DUARIE was removed from the post and pre-

sently lives on an Army pension as well as royalties

from property confiscated by the government.

-QUARTE started working against Castro within the MRP

under Manuel RAY.

timehe was the milttary

secretary

of the MRP and became quite involved

plotting

against Fidel.

A/2 also stated

rumored

at

time that DUARTE was working

MRP

that he was

also a KUBARK agent.

Eventually

"DUARTE was

placed on a G-2 suspect list, but according

to A/2 DUARTE was able

to evade detection.

has good connections within the Rebel Army and re-

volutionary government.

A/2 trusts this individual

and has confidence in him as a potential operational

lead in spite of conflicting reports which mention

(DUARTE as

an opportunist.

S "E CER

---

## Page 9

E.

c .

3/2 may

operational

contact.

also

attempt to contact

the following

asset if he has an opportunity

to make

Lester RODRIGUrZ, age late 30s early 403, married,

former member of the Partido Pueblo Cubano.

fought with

Raul Castro in the Sierra Cristobal Area.

Following the Castro takeover he

served as head of

one of

the military zones within

Havana province.

Eventually he was given lesser assignments and A/2

thinks he

is

now working intra in Oriente Province.

He claims RODRIGUEZ assisted his underground group

during 1961 by supplying trucks for transporting

weapons and

materials.

COVER AND COMMUNICATIONS

1. Cover

A/2 will be issued documentation claiming he is an employee

of a local brewery in Havana.

A/3 on the other hand will be

issued documentation as a bus driver within the city of Havana.

Both will also be issued drivers licenses and additional

items such as immunization certificates, Cuban receipts, etc.

The two men will also be outfitted with

disguises.

2. Communications

Primary communications will be established

Both men

will be given SW instruction and

accommodation addresses

This instruction

and these addresses in turn will be passed on to the recruited

assets in PBRUMEN for use as the operation develops.

arranged signals will also be devised for use by the team via

telegram to indicate their progress and confirm their place

and time of exfiltration.

Both members will also be given an

OWVL system

to provide them with quick instructions in case

of an emergency:

F.

OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION

The operational aspects of Phase I portrays a mission which

has considerable potential but also considerable risk.

area of infiltration is within five miles of a cruise missile

site and its accompanying radar.

In addition boat patrols

portion of the coast at frequent intervals.

Once infiltrated

team will not have

travel far before

first contact.

of staying at his

father's tarm for

any length of time and he does not want his

father to know of his presence in Cuba.

For this reason the

farm will not be able to serve as a safehouse.

On approach is to take A/3

SECRE

.ai irra.

---

## Page 10

to Guanabo or Havana and

safehouse him.

This, however,

jeopardize

the operation because A/3 lacks the maturity

may

and

patience necessary to stay put while /2 goes about his busi-

ness.

He may take advantage of his visit to Havana to under-

take

a clandestine assignment on his own.

When A/2 and 3

step

ashore in Cuba, control will vanish.

Fortunately A/2

has a sufficient resource of judgement to go about his busi-

ness competently.

Unfortunately A/3 gives no such indication.

For this reason

an attempt will be made to

Steer A/3

towards

developing assets around his fathers tarn

with maritime

reception capabilities.

2.

A/2, on the other hand, appears to have a sufficient numbe

of supporting assets to provide for his safety while in Havana

However,

he has not seen VAlS and @uARte for over a year.

In

addition both men

are presently outside of the Cuban

Army

organization and this position may dampen their effectiveness

in recruiting within the Army.

Station reports

on DUARD, con-

flict with A/2's evaluation of this man.

While there is no

evidence to verify

that QuArte is pro-regime,

there has been

a recent report on him from AMLEO/3 which claims DUARTE is

an

opportunist who might work for the highest bidder.

A/2's

rebuttal

to these remarks is

that QUARtE has

assisted him

1n

the past and when the chips were down he continued to aid him

in his underground activities.

This still leaves a question

mark next to the worth of DUARTE which unfortunately can only

be resolved by direct contact between him and A/2.

There are

other security implications which should be discussed in this

evaluation.

Both A/2 and A/3 cannot be considered truly se-

curity conscious.

While safehoused A/2 wrote a letter to a

contact

in Miami

which was to be transmitted by his case

officer.

The letter gave an indication that A/2 was seeking

contacts in Havana and conveyed the impression that a trip

was in

the dfing.

A/2 has written several other letters

not seen by his COs which might have given the same

impres-

AMICE/27 and AMTRUNK/2 on an operation that would take them

first to Miami and then to Cuba.

Once there they would go

to his Tathers tarm and begin to make contacts.

A/3 also

stated that a man named DUARTE would be one of their con-

tacts.

This loose talk coupled with A/3's attitude that

KUBARK exists only to serve him makes him a marginal candi-

date for this

operation.

However, if A/3 is exfiltrated

three days

after his entry into Cuba,

the operation will

gain his usefulness and

eliminate some of

the risk he

presents.

S

---

## Page 11

The above evaluation stresses the operational

and security

weaknesses in this operation..

In contrast to these weaknesses

are the positive considerations of this mission.

intelligence,

competence, and confidence to approach and

cruit two assets with the potential for developing anti-regime

operations at a high level within the Cuban Army.

The results

which these

anti-regime activities can accomplish is a matter

for conjecture but it appears that they carry potential.

Nevertheless, if the operation continues, it will bear

watching. in terms of security and control for these

will jeopardize the operation as well as KUBARK's position

if not properly contained..

IV. PHASE II

A.

ANTRUNK PERSONNEL

ANCE/RY, senior

year ora PBRUMEN citizen tron a

member of the ANTRUnK group, is a 41

a wealthy high class family.

His father, now deceased, was a prominent individual in law

and

politics and was at one time a senator. A/27 himself

graduated from law school in Habana and was a practising

lawyer.

In 1959 he became legal adviser to Camilio Cienfuegos.

Following the disappearance of Cienfuegos in October 1959,

A/27 began to engage in counter-revolutionary activities.

In May 1961, at which time he'held the

position of Under-

Secretary of Public Works,

he felt that his underground

•activities.had come. to the attention of the government

and

he took refuge along with his wife in the Venezuelan Embassy.

He was given safe conduct from the Embassy to PBPRIME in late

1961.

Subject is intelligent, articulate, and highly moti-

vated.

He has some experience in counter-revolutionary

activities and has demonstrated an excellent capacity for

learning clandestine techniques.

He has a very large ego,

and aristocratic pride, is very sensitive, and is quick to

He is frank tc

a low opinion

sents any implication

15 worKing

states that he is working for

that to the overthrow

" or the present

regime in his own country and that he will accept KUBARK aid

and advice but will not accept KUBARK control.

His attitude

although not hostile, is frequently critical, and he pre-

sents a difficult handling problem.

2.

AMICE/14 is a 26 year old Cuban citizen who is also a

law graduate. of the University of Havana.

He has been in-

volved much of his adult life in clandestine activities.

Subject arrived by small boat in June 1961 in PBPRIME. He

is highly motivated,

is intelligent and objective, and has

a very

highly developed security consciousness, developed

from his counter-revolutionary experiences.

From January

to July 1961 he made few hine

filtration/exfiltration

trips to and from Cuba result,

and has an excellent

knowledge of the northeir runs

area.

He is easy

to work

19-6-2.

---

## Page 12

SECRE

- 10 -

with

and has evidenced little of the hostilities or anti-

KUBARK feelings shown by AMICE/27.

AMTRUNK/4.

Subject is a

year old fisherman from the

area who took

in PBPRIME in February 1963.

He had previously assisted A/14 in infils and exfils and

be used as a maritime guide.

B. TASKS

1. Make preliminary black maritime infiltration by small

boat onto Cinco Leguas Key (AMS Map 4085 III) to contact

individuals who formerly assisted 'AMICE/14 in infil-exfil

operations.

2.. Through contacts on Cinco Leguas Key, organize a ratline

into the mainland, including making arrangements for trans-

portation into Havana.

Through the mechanism established above,

move to Havana

and obtain safehousing and operational support.

Make all necessary arrangements for subsequent exfil-

tration and future infiltrations.

5. Approach and recruit two key individuals with contacts

among important military figures.

6. Establish internal and external communications.

7.. Exfiltrate from Phase II.

C. INFIL-EXFIL PLANS

23 April,

Subjects. will take a small boat with silent motor

Into the Keys area and remain in the area for approximately

three days, during which time they will remain black, keep

the boat hidden in the mangroves, and contact individuals

known to them on Cinco Leguas.

They will make arrangements

with contacts at that point to re-activate contacts of AMICE/14

on the mainland at Casualidad (Map 4085 III, Grid Square 1747)

and contacts in the town of Marti and Cardenas. Plans will be

worked out at this time with these contacts for a second in

and AMICE/14 will

at which time AMICE72Y

and AMIci/14 thi again so into canco Leguas and expect to be

passed on through these contacts

to Havana.

exfiltrate by

Subjects will

small boat on

by

the parent craft in

open

or about 26 April and

will be met

water to the north of Cayo Cruz

del Padre (Map sheet 4085

• IV).

---

