# 104-10177-10135

## Page 1

104-10177-10135

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO TRIS FOLDER.

FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

• . ..

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

104x 2593

,*-131

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE.

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED.

DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

poRs 2593

17-131

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CALLS, DID ATLEE DE FILE.

ULTIME FULDENS)

1952. 72 1925

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATIDY:

ROn: -

DELITIONS, IF AVY:

DAT:

PECEIVED RITURN:»

REVOINED BY

('PINT NNIE

3/2/78 3/2/28

DAN HArdWAy

SONATURE. OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL.

Do Harduay

NO DUCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OP REMOVED FROM THIS FILI:.

SERGESTE

---

## Page 4

14.00000

_2NL1LS 2EL12 4T1E5 201 FILE.

(TU SCIONS, FIRE PERFECT

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATINY:

1952 T7: 1225

1300: -

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

TATI

ONTH

REVNEWED BY

RECHI VID RETURNED

(''INT NNIE

3/2/2s 3/2/28 DAN HArdWAy

STONATURE: OF

REVILNING DEFICIAL

Harduray

NO DUCUMENTS MAY RE COPIED OR REMOVED FRON THIS FILI.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

jir Pouch

No granti

SECURITY REASO

Chlor, Pit

asting-

Cle? Os' Stat1o2, 3uailaç0

21010TES, Ch110.

Pulairator-1'8 :Te-fora Goniriot

Rofurences iCs-i-ld68

28 Decondor 1961

at such tino as his alasranco is obtainod.

2.

FULiTTATHR-1 hay abor hingolf to bo ver; onthusinatio reperding the proposed

employmeat with this Organisation sud 10 anxiona to start che trike to vo

assigno. to him as scon is tlo clouranoo 19 obialiod nd the soddenry Instruotiona

are formarded to this Stitione

So To carty out the oovoro pripa, mos unpoot of FOLkiNAl-l's dutios ho has

highly

repormendod the une of Victor FOOLiTE litoEd.

Cho latior 18 : Chiloan,

about 50 yours ci aco, wie la foreno di colunta l's printing snopo lie also

11008 on the proridos

and would be tro caly person who would have to know if tho

prossos uno used at minito

lie da not a norbor os to priniors' labor union and

his past

actional: to indicatod to l'ur lital-l that he 1s 1005 antl-conunist.

Do has coon employed muns jono by incionale ind co., a irition firm mich anarod

the print stor

facilitios

prossuS.

rosavor, rulliniti.-l's

oguipment is antiroly separate fron baoionale's and li tho covort vore 10 dono

at night as 1a anticipatod it 1a FULVINAILE-l'a opinion that POBLEri could run

off tho work mithout any posulblo incorforarco ¿ros other irdividuale arothor

of PoDlils's altantages 1s tho foot thit ho lo ablo to perform all the printing

oporallure phlor 0111 bo novosuary to put out somal propagania and sinalar

naterdul und thia muld oliminato the noad du una ochor purdono 1n cho

proparation ol the proparanda material.

PCBLiTE hua boan closely oonaooted mità kagllah and saglo chilean officialo

i lackanato & Co. Per many yours but it 1s belloved logical to presusa that if

ho 1s paid conerously for his work in this concoation, with the undoratanding

that the work la of a complatoly confidantial naturo and of a lane-term baslo, that

ho sill agros to complote secrooy regarding tha mork. laourt of payaont to

POLLATE wiil havo to be decormined mon thoro 1s scro iniloatien id to the mount

of vork to be dono, & looal investigation of thia parson has seen Initlatod and

tho rosults will bo torrrdod sa doon

3 posalblo. No derogatory Infomation

on this porson appears in thia Station's filos.

• Ay In 11n0 with the authorisation roodlod li iC:-1165, FULWTHATrR-1 will be

AAPOR

---

## Page 6

CS -1-1801

ald fron other operational funds the peso equivalent of his enlary borinning

I January 1952.

It was conatterod noggogary to bogin his vaymento as of that

dato 1n order to ingure his vontinued stay in Chilo.

This Stution would

approolato clarification of TIEDICI-Chile to mich, scsording to IC.-i-l465,

this oxponso doul, do ohargal for a laltod tire.

The other owner,

canaremont or policies of tho papor

Tho prospoctive buyer 1s

not pope but taran event put Rota do la rotale

the controlling interest.

7.P0 FULNINATEl-l 1s wIlling to spond the secessary tiwo in Mashington for

raising and will bo roady to depart imediately when so advisod. lionovor, hi

'Po 18 oxpooting a baby around 30 December 1951 according to her doctor?

oalculationa, and

PULMINATER-1 would prefer to renain in Santiago for at least

a few days aftar the child la born.

Ho 18 oortaln that the birth will tako

plaos within a wook's time and It 1s hopod that his presonoe in raghington will

not be reguirod prior to 15 January 1952.

As a oover story for his trip.

FULV: NATER-1 has advisod that au option nas buen boujht on one of nia playe

and that a trip to few fork to disouss the play aith the prospootito producer

18 completely logical.

Further, ho has an

entato in Toras miioh 18 In. litication

and ahich could torically requiro his prozonço there.

PILNINA HER-I askod that

ho Do allowed

to spend a day or two in lexas olther en his trip us or back to

Bottle thia ostato and 1t is recormonded that ho be allowad to do so in order to

provida his cover story with more baels in fast.

8.7, PULMT ACER-1 has been told that he must pay inited Statos trooma tax on his

salary rocolved

this Crganisation.

He is at a loss, however,

to kaow how

cide addod Incone car be ratisfactorily and socurely explained to the Dooartzont

of Internal Revenue.

In acoordence with the conten:o of flold Rogulationa 50-15,

this matter is boing brought to Herdquerters attention mith a request for

Instruotions as to hoir thia matter 1s to be handled.

Leting Chint of Station

Kenneth J. Tendler

ofo

RAPOR COOUNTY MORELAUN

---

## Page 7

1-00000

= Attachroats T0S-4-1601

• DE? " SECURITY IN

Pro Forma Contract Ell Fulninator-1

no horody sontraot you to

aondl tans:

perfore services aa rojuired under the following

1) To:: agroo to ranala in Chilo for at losat two years fros tha.

dato of this contraot and you also agroo not to sell during

this perlod your share of the South Paciflo Ball of whiah, 1t

18 understood, you aro a part ownor and malntain tho controlling

Initorest. (515)

8) It 1o agrood by you that this Organisation w1ll not booone

Lavolted in any way, finanoially or otherelso, In the South

Faoifio Jail.

You mill carry out tho dutios abaigned to you by th

apropriato offiolal to tha boat of your ability devotin

as such time to than as 1s roasonably possiblo, taking into

coasideration your obligation to manago the South Paolflo

luil as the overt reason s'or your residenoo in Chilo.

4) . You will lo paid the sun of U. S. $5,960 per annun for your

sOrvides

and you agrao, in

accordazoo

wiin subsoquoat instructiona, to pay the initod States Inoome

tar shlob will be dua on tiis anount. Your salaty will bo paid..

nonthly.

5)

You agroo to nuko jouralf availablo to traval to Mashington

for about a one month's

stay to-uadorgo training as roguirod. i

Irayol and living expenses

during this trip will bo paid by

this Organization.

It 1s not kuom anon thie trip will tâko

place but it is boldovod that lt will be in tho noar futuro.

You will be sranted paid vaoatione during the perlod of your

• omployment lo Chilo in aucoriance with spplioable Chiloan

Should local travol be roguired by thia Organisation, your

travel

and living axpenses shile away from Santlago will bo

mado availablo.

8)

Reasonablo entertainment expenses, aftor prior ccnsultatioa

'vita this offloo, will be roimbursed.

It 1s agrood by you that you will not oxpoot siok loare

benafits to aooure to you under the torns of this contraots

and it 1s underatood that your employment by this organiaation

will not entitle you to rottrement and othor sinilar bonofits

of Urliod Seatos Government amploysos.

10) It is understood by you that the terms of this contraot are

--".

---

## Page 8

'ättachment: IC3-A-1801

provisional upon the satiafactory clearando of your name by

the approprinto offloials.

11) The effostire date of this oontraor le the date ou wilch your

satiafaotory oldarance lo raoolrod and the torn shall bo

Indofinito.

12) The termination of this contraot may be offootod at any time

uvon written notioo, but althout advance notice, by this

Organisation, auch termination to be effectivo uion recott

of the notico, The tormination of this contract will not

roleano you fron any provisions of seourity oaths shich jou

may be requirod to take.

eter

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Project Outline Clearance Sheet

Project Title

PBGROVEL Amendment No..

Developed by: 6. 4. Mies

Case Ofsiger

Revlewed by: N.7M1. Simues

Project No. -

Organization

0 24/1/52

Diviaton Chie

+ Fil Si

Concurrences:

Oate

4 tel is

Date

Date

Date

Approved subject to conditions below:

Date

11 Red 52

Conditions of approval:

OPC Form No. 1103 (Rev)

23 April

1951

SECRET

....

---

## Page 10

14-00000

Project

PA CASEE QUILTE

F3GE01EL

Type coorational

_ _ Amendent di.

I.

AUTHORIZATION

lEont ape too an end petite of me an ed capable on

ecomplichnent of HD missions (a) and (b) in Chile; as set out

In Section II (paragraph 2.b.) of Annex & to the MID/OPC Strategi

Plan dated 1 Novenber 1951.

Phase I (1 Jan - 30 june 52) in the aforementioned Plan.

II.

REFERENCES

A. Budgetary data for this Project. (ANNEX A)

B.

Field dispatch (ICS-A-1801) outlining the tenns of this

Project.

(ANNEX B)

Headquarters cable authorizing recruitient of FULMINAIOR-1

for this Project as a contract agent. (ANNEX C)

III. PROPOSAL

1. Statement

As the first step in implementing the development of that committee,

46,000.00 to

1.. Spot, recruit, and manage a qualified indigenous Chilean

who will act as organizer. of the aforsmentioned connittee,

2.

Act as cut-out and principal agent for."I, in the

operations of the committee.

It such time as developnent of the committee varrants, the

necessary steps will be taken to flace the committee in the

proper relationship with the DialIas foundation for purpores

of cover and support.

---

## Page 11

14-01110

3. Eackground

The Merican national in question is a fomer WiD/0s0

agent (FULMINNTOR-1) of proven ability, courage and

discretion.

FULMINATOR-l's presert occupation in santiago, Chile,

provides him wit: excellent contacts and cover jor

carrying out the tasks proposed for him above:

le is part ower of, and holds the controlling interest

(51) in a Santiago printing and publishing establishment

C. Current Status

On 23 January 1952, WD Headquarters authorized its

Santiago Field Station to hire FULMINATOR-1 as a

(See LINEXES B and D) .

t such time as that development warrants, an Amendment

o this Project containing a statement of all new require.

ments, will be submitted to competent authority for

IV. RECOMMENDATTOY

That there be allotted to this Project funds in the amount of

$4,700.00 to provide salary for FULMINATOR-1 for the remainder of

training period.

% OPERATIONAL DETAILS

A. Area of Coeration

Chile

B.

Sperational Control

1. riD Headquarters will exercise final control

of this

Project, and ict as its support unit.

4.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

2.

The way cield station, sanciago, chile, vill exercise

fioldicontrol

o: Project operations in accordance with

Instructions fion Feadqjartors.

C. Personnel fecuired

ritting agent to act as Project principal agen

D. Camunications Plan

Aveilable WiD pouch and cable facilities ietween leadquarters

and the Santiago Field Station.

E. Support Plan

I. Iralning

training are to be borne by WHD.

• F.

Reports Procedure

Progress reports will be submitted to iD leadquarters by

the Santiago Field Station in accordance with Heacquarters

directives.

G. Cover and Security

1. Cover

FULMINAIOR-1 will remain in Chile in his present business

position.

As a cover story for his trin to riashington for

covert training, FULMINAIOR-1 has advised that an option

las been bought on one of his plays and that a trip to

lew York to discuss the play with the prospective produces

is completely logical.

2.

Security

On 10 january 1952, UND received an C9 Operational Clearance

on FULMINATOri-1.

1.4

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Cormuntcationg betweon FULs trO: 1 ind ina Sartiago

Field station wil at all tines be carriod on by means

of a secure cut-out.

'Since FUMI:AlOR-l's cover is his overt business situation

In which he is already establisied, and since that situation

provides hun with printing and publishing facilities, it 19

believed the good operational security can be maintained

with a mintmun of efiort in this Project.

VI. BUDEST DATA

See ANNEX A.

(OPC Form No. L04).

---

## Page 14

14-00000

Bear on

SECRET

ecti

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Oifer designations should be used in tha "TO"' column

and each comment numbe di lo corresport mich the number in the "TO" cslurin.

before further rauties

This Rowing and Rocerd Sneas should he reiu.ned to Registry.

Uncer end commont a tine should to drawn across sheet

Each ditter shu did nitral (chock mark insuff.frert)

FROM:

NO.

TO

ROON

NO.

RECID

#WO'D

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

4 Felmeransy 1952

COMMENTS

WHD

three uptra copies

attached.

3.

10

12.

119.

FORM 50. 51-10

SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

• :

SECRET

SiTuAliY INFGRMATION

1, February 1952

AEZ:OZANDUM FO.2: MHD

SUEJECT:

OrC Froject PBGROVEL

Subject project has been reviewed by this office and

connunications facilities beyond those already existing will

be required in support of the project.

2. It is intended that this memorandum shall constitute

the Communications Annex for PBGOVL.

I Fisher

James.

FISHER

OD/OP/J.F/mhj

Distribution:

Addressee - orig & 3

CD/OP/Carpenter - 1

0D/OP/Fisher - 2

SD/RE - 2

...

CERITY INFORMATION

SECRET

---

## Page 16

4-00000

SECRET

Drore!: I, 1HD Perords

l'octlag with Agent, Paul' D. LilaVT: On 20 coril 1952

The sense of the folloring tust las obtained during

en aftornoon: recting with Agent In CoVIl!.

Particinating ir

the tall: ere lessrs. Styser anù Iutton and Agent Lanesitai.

Four rajor topics vero discussed and will. lo presented lara

In the order in which they vere develored.

2. Fintiar Plant Moblem: I5. ICIVIl indicated that

in two and a lalf to tirce nonths cortain financial obliga-

tions woulr! coro duo. Theso consisted entirely in naking an

#5,000 rayment arising train the purchasc of equipent fa his

This equimment,

which cost about

$10,000 when purchased late in 1951,

consists of an Italisn-

made press,

Speed Graphic cancras, tyre,

The marlet value of this eauipmont (mutly new and

1s estimated to lo at. Isast $10,000.

8,000 represents the

total Irdebtedress ol' LAGEVIl's pleat

and is ored to a li, MiCITIETo of Casa Inclonsic. . LAtatTi

may neet this payment by cither (J.) scouring a loan iron a Fort

bank using his shore in farily oil Interests ss

collateral, (2) taling or a Chilean partner,

(3) getting te

noney

from a Chilean bank (which rould involve an 18p interest

rate,

or (4) getting the rorey elsewlere.

Corrion agreement ses

expressed on the undesirability of taking on a Chilean partzer

since this would bo a security hazard in uny future Ri work,

and would also clininate the possibility of using the plant

aS

cover for

another agent.

1s. LanGeVIl:, asked about his perious

statement

about leaving Chilo arter two yenro,

roplied that now

there wes no definite plan or desire In that direction.

Indieated he would have some ideadout the rossibility

assistance from a Texas bark within a lew weoks. II. LANCSVIN

also suegested that he would cladly use his earings

next two years fron the agency (56,000 per yeur; if the Agency

could out up the 10, 000 in a lung sum.

The printing firm is

now making a profit above the salary which LAlGaVIN takes out.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

4-00000

SECRET

-2-

uncutiorised person in Chile

activities.

Information on fusiche:

When questioned about the

discretion of FUeLER, INGEVIli indicated complete confidence,

stating that she was very efficient and rould be usonul in

assisting him in Pl lork. IAlGaVIl was thoroughly briefed on

the fact that FUILER mist never lnow of DIIATE!S or its con-

5. Hords and Deeds: IT. IdiGiVIN stated that the format,

and plotoengraving of this pamphlet vas far above

callber exhibited In the parphlet.

French attribution on poorer paper.

tives 1s also not done in his plant, but must be ccntracted for

at a Sentiago photoengraver's.

6. Banh: Dotails: If. LA CEVIli has oponed an account at

the Cherical Bank: and Trust, Ith Strcet and Nadison Avenuo,

New York City.

111 futuro nonthly neymonts i1ll be made to

that bank, begirning s1th the paymont for April.

Leo E. Patton

SECRET

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Not lined

SECRL.

COTT DE CITE

TO:

FRCZ::

SaTIAGO

OFITATICIS

16 NAY 52

OUT 77204

WASH 41154

TO: SAGOG

CITE: WASHG

1. INFORM LARGEVIN FEADQUAFTERS ATTRPTING OFTAI:: LOAN.

REQUEST LANCEVIN HOTIFT IZADQUARTITS SEFRE CCIPLETING

...

SECRET

--------•-•

---

## Page 19

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should bo used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a lino should be drawn across shoot

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column.

Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)

before further routing.

This Flouting and Record Sheet should be returned to fiegistry.

FROM:

ма.

Mr. Britt

284g28 934

har. Huskan

hes. Washesgton

21230 "

13.

FEB 1950

10. 51-10

SECRET

F837

---

## Page 20

4-00000

29 May 1952

MEMORANDUH FORS OD/CO

STTENTICN:

SUBJECT:

Mr. Willian Rowland

Project PBOROVEI, Amendment No. 1

1. Forwarded herewith are the original and two copies of subject

amendment plus an extra copy of OPC Form LOLa.

that payment of eight thousand (88,000.00) dollars to PAUL D. LANGEVIN

must be made on or about 20 June 1952.

3.

Subparagraph six of the Proposal indicates that as a prerequi-

site to issuance of a loan to LANCEVIN the latter will be required to

submit a complete nameplate inventory of all machinery and equipment in-

volved in the loan transaction, its physical existence in his custody,

his title to the pr-perty,

and an a proximate evaluation of its worth

(as. determined by WHD station personne]). WHD will be prepared to do

this shortly after Amendment No. I 1s approved and the necessary lunds

are available for payment.

4.

Subparagraph five of the Proposal Indicates that details of the

loan contract and selection of the appropriate legal Instrument to secure

a lien on the machinery and equipnent will be arrived at through joint

agreement of WHD, CCC and the Legal Division.

These financial details

will be arranged

subsecuent to approval of the amendment in question and

will comprise the financial plan governing the expenditure of the funds

requested.

дект

XING

WHD /JCK/SWw/VL.G/HB/Jc

Distribution

Orig: OD/co

cc: Special Contracting Officer (Mr. J.L. Bischoff)

CM (Mr. Ernest W. Pittman) •

Chief, Branch I

Project File PBCROVEL WHD/FRO

Chrono WHD/P&0

---

## Page 21

14-00000

;

SECRET

DICURITY IATGRMNTON

25 Juno 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: ASSISTANI DIRECTOR FOR POLICY COORDINATION

SUBJECT:

Project FBOROVEt, Proprietary, WhiD

1.

CH.concurg in maldng a loan of U. S. 58,000 with interes

$ 4 percent per annua to contract agent Paul D. Langevin (pseudo)

this loan is to be fully secured by a chattel mortgage, or whateve

other legal instrument is recognized by the appropriate Chilea

Court as establishing a first lien on the machinery and equipaent,

valued at approximataly U. S. $10,000, against which the loan to be-

Principalfand interert are to be anortized in monthly

accruing each month to the agent.

The term of the loan will be for

the time required to liquidato principal and interest in full.

The contract agent will submit a complete name-plate

Inventory of all machinery and equipment Involved as callateral for

the loan along with his proof of title to and its physical existence

Inestone Jurphen

FRESTON L. SUTPHEN

Chief, Comercial Division

CM/RDOD/rs

Distribution:

orig & 2

- Addressee

1 - DDA

1 - WHD

2 - RI/PI

SEGRET

---

## Page 22

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

an actor offer designation poul be he inheriT one Une get alone it should are insecons

and each comment numbered to schrespond with the number in the "1O" column.

before further routing

This houring anl Record Shoet should te returned to Resistry.

FROM:

Tra

W4D/Br. I

DATE, JUZS 1952

TO

LEP atton

ROOM

NO

DATE

MC D

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

JANoel

DCWH/PC

OD/co

ADPC

JUL8

14.

.-

15.

FOB M.500.51-10

SECRET

D. A COTTARAEXT PUTTHDCITON

---

## Page 23

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVZENMENT®

тО.

ADPC

VIA

: 0D/Cо

FROM : CANN

DATE: 7 Ruy 1952

SURJECT: Information on, Paul D. LANGEVIN principal agent of Project PEOROVEL

aul b. La.cavin is the principal agent of subject project, approve

12 February 1952.

Projoct PBGROVEl contempirtos the establishent in Santiago o

an indigenous anti-comrunist committee which, when developed, will be placed

under DIHASEAS.

proved his net agent was and and clean pree Subject

as granted an operational clearance for. DYCLAVIER sork Il Jaruary 1952, and

Since his retum to

at to will a dim orate the at camera come on i eno principal

3.

Subject 1s tho Texas-born 30 year old, owner and publisher of the

English-language weekly "South Pacific Mail" of Santiago. Subject has also had

U.S. Air Force..

indicated on several occasions a continuing interest in obtaining a pernament

position with this agency.

4.

Dus to the Subject's travel to New York for training, several

officers of WHD have had an opportunity to observe and evaluate subject Opinion

on subject has been consistently lavorable and he has impressod all as a person

of high intelligence and personal integrity.

Subject has had a varied occupational

background, excellent education, and exhibits exceptional poise and a good

appearance.

Boot troopatier

---

## Page 24

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designatars stauld de used in ta "TO" columa laser ench commora line should be drawn across shees

indears comment numberes,

Fianesend mih the number in the "TO" incit" Eich eifice stacid initial (check marli insulficient)

befere further routing.

This Routine anä Ricard Sheet should be cälurres ro den sir.

FROM:

ER: 3-0947

DD/P

CATE

ROC.M

NO

Project folder -

PIG POVEL

DATE

RECO

FIDD

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMiENTS

ORM NO. 51-1

E3 195

SECRET

---

## Page 25

14-00000

IT RET

£1. 3.0947

SENCENDIE FOR, DEPULI DITCROS (PLANS)

SULJECT&

Project PEGROVEl, Arenant 10. 1 -

I, Anarinent lio, 1 to Project PECHOVEL proposes the l0un

of the sin of 13,000 at lã interest par ammun to a contract agent

in sentiaço, Chilo, In order that this agent uy camloo paraont

en machinary and eru pront recently installed on the premisos of

the printiny ostabllabnent of unich sala agent la sola proprietoo.

the propriety of CIA lending funds for thia puposo ha:

boen reviewed by Oc/ini who is al the opinion tiat in prinodple

there should be no oi jootion.

The quastion of operational usa by

Opo hna boon raisod with the H9 Divison and it has bow statod

that this oguluent, consiruing of to presa, Inetype anahine,

Speed Graphio: emeras, dueo, pen ba used for opa poopaganda pro.

isation purposal.

3. Tha quaction oi contrul of the coatrect azoat vas dies

cussed aul it has been isterined tint the foneral louneal's Of-

fied lo boing roqueriod to establish logol noons sherely the len

o surtgage on this equipsent will be hold in the none of a cuto

out, In the suent as any untonard action on tho part at the ca

tract agen. or disagreement botreen tho agent and Chl, sotion can

do do 1à indirated In tha attachso sorozaun toa tho Chief,

# Diviaon, the contrace agent 1o constdered to ba an individua

oi high intelligancs and parcenal imority. so tis and the

sova I1otal rensons, 18 is rocomondod that Anentani lo. I to

PoCiOVEL be approved in tho anant ai 55,000.

soon.

FRANKLIN A. LINESAY

icting Assistant Dimotor For

Palicy Goorillation

Distrivution:

FFC - Cris, & 5

ID/ - 2

UPC /21/37 - 2

---

## Page 26

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designationg shruid be usej in tho

ans each comment numbered is corresi said rth the number in the "TO" colom.

befure further routing.

This Routing ai: Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

OPC.

NO.

DATE

ER - 3-0947

TO

ROOM

NO

CATE

HIC'D

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

TWOO

21

10.

18.

13.

14.

13.

10-011271

U. 3, CONCANALAT PEINTERO OFFICE

FOE 19500. 51-10

SECRET

---

## Page 27

852717

SAR.47H:.29171CH

E1-3.0947

MENORA:DU FORS DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLAS)

SUBJECT:

Projeot PBGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. Amendment No. 1 to Project PBGROVEl proposes the loan

of the sun of 88,000 at 1, intèrest per annun to a contract agent

1n Santiago, Chilo, in order that this agent may complete payment

on machinery and equipment recontly installed on the premises of

the printing establishment of which said agent is solo propriotor.

been raised with the WH Division and it has been stated

that this oquipment, consisting of the pross; linotypo machino,

Spead Graphic cameras, eto., can be used for Ope propaganda pro-

duction purposes.

3o Tho question of control of the contraot agent vas dis-

cussod and it has been determined that the Gonoral Counsel's Of-

fice is being requested to establish legal means whereby the lion

or mortgage

on this equipment will be hold in the nane of a cut-

out..

In the event of any untoward action on the part of the con-

tract agont or disagreement between the agent and CIA, action can

be taken to assumo control of the machinory.

As is indicated in the attached memorandum from the Chief,

#H Division, the contraot agent is considered to be an individual

of high intelligonce and personal integrity.

For this and the

abovo listed reacons, it is recommended that amendment No. 1 to

PBGROVEL be approvod in the anount of $8,000.

Fran lin, roses

LINDS

doting/Assistant Director for

Policy Coordination /

52/00

---

## Page 28

SECRET

ROUTINE AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Offrcer des inadens siould do unad in the "To column.

Under each comment a line should he dramn across sheet

and each semment number die corespond ith the numbe the "TO" deid thr

Each officer sheug in pial (check mark insufficient)

belnee further cougg

The Gruing and Hocord Sheet shourg de raturned to hegistry.

FROM:

OUTE

ROOM

NO

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

ER 3-1112

182-4,52

COMMENTS

0D/e0

9.

10.

15.

a 2 CENT MINTO OT

F081,50. 31-10

13893S

---

## Page 29

14-00000

13: 3419

SECRET

Sacurity Internation

13 Juy 1752

ENCRACH foRs Socretary, Projact Revlow Comittee

SUBALCT

1 Project PBGRuVEL, Amendment, lo. 1

• :

mia will advice you that DD/r approvad the abore today in

the mount of 23, 000.

2. This man is actually a loon to a principal açant at Lib Interest

ner anti, renayient to bo erfectustod in 1500 sonthly instalinants out

of tia contract arent's salary wits the agency, uhicia amounta to $6;000

HAIT. TOFTE

Acting Chief of Plins

Orrice of DD/P

IÜ Jidy 1952

Disc:

I ca:

Dd/p Chrono

. 2008 OPC/11

SECRET

Comingy li formati.s

---

## Page 30

14-00000

ai,

3-E-C-R-EnT

SECURITY IFORUATION

DD/P Pro,1zot A22r0rnl

Shoot

Profoot Cryptonym PiROUEl:

Amondment Noo 1

sub- Projeot Cryptonym

Originating Division

HESTERI LIFITSPHLDE DIVISION

reprod - Depend Be Season 18 Ju

Comments:

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 31

Project Title

Developed by:

Reviewed by:

Concurrences:

S-E-*-R-E-T

SECURITY INFORMATION

Froject Butline Clearinco Sheet

Lee E. Patton.

Case: Officer

Amendment No. 1 Project No._

WHO/OPC Be.I

erganization

23 Nesy 1952

29 Kay 1952

22 very 145°2

SM- Presten RCasphan 6/25/52

Date

Date

Date

Date

Aprroved subject to conditions belows

Conditions of approval: _

OPC Form No. 1103 (Rev.)

23 April

1951

S-F-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 32

14-00000

36E-C-F=E:T

Security information.

Project Title.

Amendment No..

_project No.-

1a Following Line and Staff Calicors of the hestern Hemisphere Division Huve

Signed and Corcurr With This Project.

Concurred: Psychological Warfare Officer WED

Political larfare Officer HiD

Fconomic Warfare Officer WID.

Sabotage larfare Officer WT

Countersabotage Officer WHD

Paramilitary Officer WHD

Plans Officer P? 0 WD

Budget Officer P. 0 WHD

Скучна

Project Coordinator

Chief P & 0 WHD

n. Huskam

Conditions of Annroval

Date

Dato

Date

Dato."

Date

Date

Date

20 MAY 1952

Date

Date

28M81952

Securito Information

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

a same

Project_

- Sano as Project FREOVEL.

II. PERACETCES

1. Sane as Project FRECViL.

B. Budgetary dats for tils amendment (inrox A).

C. Keno on reetirg with Agent Paul D. LAliGaVIN: (lzer B).

..D. Cable to Santiago Station on the loan to LuCETIi (Annex C).

III. PEOPOSAL.

A. Statenent

1. It, 1s prorosed that the Agency lend the sie i 33,000 1n

U,s, currenci, at 4i per annu, to contrset agent, Paul

D. LA: CEVI:, In

Santiago, Chile, in order that this agunt

--may meet cortractual obligations rithout eningering his

[resent corer..

2.

Tho roceeds of this loan rould be used to cozlete pay-

ment on nectinery and equimment recently installed in the

leased premises

of the printirg establishment of which

LANGEVI! is now sole proprietor.

3.

The princirel and interest of the lon would ie anortired

Iron the entire moceeds of InCaVIl's salary for the

agoncy of $6,100 per jear, at the rate of 4500 per month.

4.

Tho loan iould be guaranted by a chattel satgage, or

whatover legi instrument is custorarily enojed in

Chile to establish a lien on the assets against which the

loan would be rede.

and equirment rould be arrived at through joint agreement

of VID, CCC and the legal Division. The eristing agent

SECRET

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET

contract kit's IvaavI:: rould so be reviered jointly by

rejrccontatives of those dir cions tith a rio: to ircor-

Turnting try soctrication vici: light bo recescury as a

result of tho afont's entering into a loun areetent with

the agercy.

B. Background

Contract agent, Paul D. IAhGaVIli, 1s the sole oner and editor

of the English-lanquage paper, South PcifIc Mall, which Is

published weekly in Santiago, Chile. The printing of this

publication vas formerly done by an outsido firm. Desiring to

hardle both his own printing recuircents and to engege in job

printing, LANGEVli: obtainca cquiment from an individual who

expected to he componsated through a partnership in the busi-

ness. However, scrious illness has prevented the rrospective

parter from entering the business, and hos forced IN!GEVIl! to

nect the financial obligation alone.

The ropayment of this

obligation will roguire LANGUVIl cither (1) to accept a Chilean

pertrer in his business, or (2) to obtain a loan.

The require-

nents of eccurity and the need for flexibility of operation

nilitate againot bringing in e partner.

Horeover, a loan ob-

tained locally through ordinery cornercial channels, 1.0.

banks, would ortall exorbitant interest rates. In addition,

since a bank: Ican would almost cortuirly: be of short-tern

duration; there would exist the constant timeat of loss of the

cover business through a'possible refusal to renew the low.

LANGEVIN has contacted a banl: in Texas in an atterpt to secure

a loan, offering us security his charc of a family interest in

• oil-producing lerco.

it spears doubtful that the Texas burl:

1111 grant the loan.

C. Current Status

LA'CaVI. was advised, ittle in the United States for tirining,

that Feadquarters sould Investigate the possibilities of an

SECRET

---

## Page 35

SECRET

-3-

a leer son tho igoner, inder thie, terms cutlined in the pronesel,

mesentes the best solution for tho drency iron the standpoint

•i securiti, und that such a loen roid dire thie Agency evon

merter control over the aront than non exists.

•at Li interest,

at 2 rare d hot do of a ear end an a 10

to contract egont,

socired by a lien on machinery and aquimart vluca at approstrately

$10,000; intorest and mincinal to be snorticed at lio raio of $500

por sorti, tio full amount of agent's salary.

Sane as Froject POMP.CVEL.

IT. BUDEDE FOLA

Seo lines d. (OPC FRM No. 2049)

SECRET

---

## Page 36

posity

SECRET

PROJECT FINANCIAL DITI

(This data may tor exceed SECRET classification)

Project Cryptonym Easi

Fiscal Period Covered dun June 195 7

A.

L. E. Patton

Case Officer

:ED/CPC 3ranch 1

Responsible Stati or Division

PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS

(Indicate number and type of persennul required and estimated total

compensation for salary, allowances, travel, and related employee

Senefits.)

Type

Staff Employees

Stiff Agents

Career Agents

Agents

•Consultants

Detailed Personnel

Miscellaneous

TOTAL

Numbur

Estimated Total Compensation

Nons

$

required to support the project. ittach a list of special equipment

requirements, if available,)

ione

Total Estimated Cost $

C. OTHER OPERATIONÁL EXPENSES

(indicate volume and rature of such expenses, such as (1) maintenance

of tivo operational houses abroad, (2) hirc of approximately 10 foreign

nationals for procurement of information, (3) spot purchase of

information, etc.)

None

OPC Form No. 10%a

9 November 1950

Total Estimated Cost $

SECRET

---

## Page 37

14-00000

i on tide?

SECHET

D.

SURSIDY UP PROPRIET.ARY PAYMENTS

Tir Tunds are to ba turred over to individuals or groups in large lump

sums to be expended by the individuals or groups at their discrction

to accomplish an agrued upon objective, explain the trpe uf financial

accounts, factual verifiration, or abatements, if any, other than a

reccipt for the lump surn, which will he ebtained from such individual

or grouy.)

The sun of 18, 000.00 15 to be pald to contract agent Paul D. LViGiVIN

in the form of a loan at lit interest; both interest and principal to

be anortized at the rate of $500.00 per month.

Tho loan will be

avidenced by a loan contract signed by LilGaVli and the agency.

Total Estimated Cost $ 8,000.00

E.

FUNDING REQUIREMENTS

Show approximate dates funds will be required, if known, and indieste

whether funds will be required in U. S. dollars, specific types of for-

eiga currency, checks, bonds, gold, or some special type ul nego-

tiable instrument.

Indicate any special security requiriments or

special methods of transmission anticipated in connection with funding

the activity.)

The above amount (US:8,000.00) shall be paid in a lump sun to the

borroirer, preferably by check deposited in the Chemical Bank and Irust,

74th Stroet ard Ladison Avenue, New York, MaJ., on or about 20 June 1952.

F.

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS

(Within security linitations, list any other facts or circumstances

which will enable Special Support Staff to lend adequate logistic sup-

port to this project. Indicate specifically the "Rush" or "Time"

factors involved.)

Full arount must be paid on or about 20 June 1952

G.

Funds required for use in Field

Funds riguired for use ky Hq.

Total (this amount is also total of

A, B, C. and D above)

$ 8,000.00

$

$ 8,000.00

OPC Form No, 1041

9 November 1950

- 2 -

SECRET

---

## Page 38

14-00000

SECRET

PROJECE FINANCIAL DATA

(This data

may not exceed SECRET Classification)

1.

Project Cryptonyn

Fiscal Period Covered

+ 82 39 un 1951

"Tunes 1

Responsible Staff or Division

Li 132:2

case Officei

A. PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS

(Indicate number and type of personnel required and estinated total

compensation for salary, allowances, travel, and related employee

benefits.)

Type

Number

Estimated Total Compensation

Staff Employees

Staff Agents

Career Agents

Agents

4: 77277

Consultants

Dctaiied Personnel

Miscellaneous

TOTAL

$

B.

SUPPLIES, MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT, IND SPECIAL SERVICES

(indicate the type and estinated cosi of materials and special services

required to support the project. Attach a list of special equipment

requirements, it availabie.)

Total Estimated Cost $

C. OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

(indiate out and use of sad penses, peo is ( ly internee

nationals for procurement of information, (3) spot purchase of

information, etc.)

10A3

......

OPC Form No. 40$a

9 November 1950

Total Estimated Cost $

SECRET

---

## Page 39

14-00000

D.

SECRET

SUBSIDY OP PROERICCAKY PAYMENTS

Ti Tunts are to be tarned oyar to individuals or groups in large limp

•sams to bu expended by the individuals go groups it their discretion

to accomplish an agreed upon objectire, explain the trpe of financial

accounts, fuctual verification, or sentenants, if ary.

rectipt for the lump sum, which will be obtained from such individual

or group.)

ite ass of

eno de la la pole lo dariod dina

1 MilliC 63 Me Mil de lion fit did.

Total Estimited Cost $

FUNDING REQUIREMENTS

(Show approximaic dates funds will be required, if known, and indicate

whether funds will be required in U. S. dollars,

specific types.of.for-

ciga currency, checks, bonds, gold, or some spècial type uf nego-

tiable instrument.

Indicate any special security requirements or

spicial methods of transmission anticipated in connection with funding

the activity.)

Mn sure neat to 0109.01 all 10 gain 10 & 1ur 1n

Pirit er,

gatemala seros depeated in the inaleal tent out 7e,

Ten 0ed and Macare pod, me on, colo, da or these int tre 29:20

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS

(Within security limitations, list any other facts or circumstances

which will enable Special Suppost Stalf to lend adequate logistic sup-

port to this project. Indicate specifically the "Rush" or "Time"

factors involved.)

tell +43998 5995 9976 + 99 95568 30 9430 2353

G.

Funds required for use in Field

Funds required for use by Hq.

Total (this amount is also total ol

A, B, C, and D above)

$

Austend

$

$

4,0). 00

OPC Form No. 404a

9 November 1950

-2 -

SECRET

---

## Page 40

4-00000

Ben saa ga

Baà de, 1033

(ITIANT 19)

DOES SETON

3 Bad to opper

orgialration as aBa salad, do dor tala daaz9, saa abdo so desperato.

LO JOadio 0, DiarO aNO ASLOBO, PlaTO 10 A E911 DeEd 0S

poo, do uno are enthual so cloally laBoradosa da lounading desh o

¿TOU: al' pertiOulas LOtOSODE lA ELO FUTIVES Of "Re Callo", e

utad to ena loses aladdod end od testally (9agat 0031008 dorsale

Pi018 Dagela, Ans dui coe, a soup nalas could to dalled saca agala.

Bread d

le to too quon tu ñu.d lint juur organisall i slahi boly da lado

SAE0O5I A SUE DI PIDUE 1LO, DOU JO!DATO EjOAS SOULS DO PEgaITON DO

louro 7200080.

8: 10 a:0n8 roustly raponrade tho yearly 1o00 of

AVADO.

jaedo as abes boudd, of ovurso, Do anò son alter

Isolng aro o11041a114050983028.

myaolf, and oskor intapostod tilanda ano roperlag.

a dosailos porst on ino espadda sontioned above, vedloatso, bus

DO rAppY tO aSsU lalA rOVOrO lO yOU 1í you Lodiasto y vasadblO

suppore of our idea.

(FUNTBRIAL)

arti

---

## Page 41

4-00000

1778

ADRIL DO DIOS

•1. 1157946)

DOSS SITA

Thia do to doinualedoy al lo estato rolalpo os your 10.t80e of

To oscaudito board of eus seusda dua bão rond ass

unno, doras your propodel and no Mad your consenple dod modulêdoo

aust lirtoroatla..

YOSS LUTO Of FOVIVIAS E1 1181-80SOLI8ONlES, DETO

your group' a cotlestos.

sur foundasion, do you ravo boes coldo do

alilla, to solas noopodi lad proto sual do jouro la dorrolo

uning and aarrylas forsard a seguim autdotusall tartas propras.

CALlO NO dO Jost IDlOTOOROd la soolA, your group ausosestaly

launabad eno Yonda: lon'8 eu purs ol l$a potlalelo. Mould of esuroo

vuarla.ont u, va 10ool>t of do on, 1080 dorallo no posalbio on do

norosasol, rо00 хов.

sad aled uf your cund and the board'a appro

val of levo group!.

In mior. Ma l sno board nay arrivo al dostallo cosioluatins coba

in•t you furalah tho "ullos. do dr oraa81osi

Suball a ro?irt, ad you sustood, sortln,, forth your

ur rivival

l Cho 120, 9a100 and 100. udo dirfursatis

1s go.r rio nroon aud tha a 04nd of saslotaroo talon you

nuudid ais, lio iouadalson to supply.

1. 105051

us as du are thor your group

1o, ur poseda bo.

80 А рол'11 л7

to

sarmilato a prugras of auditlanal ants-

odalble infoy-

nots n laulualu do ostlasto of tobablo 0uos.

0.

51a0o your sroup da vory unider tly douduood or 1a-

• luentlal and high-aladad pooplo such

our sell. to

¡she havo sho aspaulist, if everzually

dor lo, did,

lat as ariandaation ablas ooeld toll booso

callo ass alfhe bo eno voblolo tarous undoi ald aould bo

aheanollos tu otor sOrra alUlo, Dodjal, MEduoso iT po

lh lous 0rg0n18a111n8 chlod also say be austo t to 00z3

mhat monsoo dud tilab soy ason to dosabat 18 a0 tvoly.

by us.

in order lo rurchor the pork of jour Epous, thli 18

rodsaso, coolal and oindo organisadional Bean auppor

a ObtelDad 1A, suy 10A8AN000, dis ORbor ocuserlos. o

---

## Page 42

14-00000

¡s aspolualus, say sa roesphaalgo es yatas lazarado la yeus

sussoatod mbilias

for sula amioeror.

Perry trady roura.

(A8.A+TA5)

.?!"

---

## Page 43

19781 1y, 1408

D00'8 May 88, 1058

DTHABEIS

000r. 18.

I hayo had soróral domvesiadlono o1 in dois.

• São attr

Os tha quilLootlos Do Mia to poulro, do sall do ostor, laboransod papelos.

ind y asomora aro breod ds ihi poaulde of troa cosreres dlon0..

-Subaf't. ó

S::rocoBileR

orilb dblm....0ba."

so plane.

aro p., ronivo

Hoe tloo "o ano

• Oi ão pagoo, Biblold

8120.

ft@al.d.og

riutad on thuraday a foornoca anil-ba: dl apatebod by

asp'e, uo sorta (dltraro dou du, yor arras) nnd by rallipo to Beuta

foual

s1aln

#n. +18110 890--8100)

Ibua tho porlon toul: be oold as

DUFCATO lO:€ 401F

"sla,

röe:in*

raprut.lod "? . t0 050aad, laurdog ssturday aod

jur tió tai ly:

aur. abfo01190 8o80p000h aplogbog.end

+CIO501

JE sor to fut

e a nado 0-n001.000. desy lnduseslal cenoonai

ww..jg j.ro.aso t0o.dil1001.@itrodddo 10 .oa./lay00d a8 a 10s0r 0006.

AN OIA IiInI

.Jurin

tr.e

TOrI..uG

iD1100E10n sel0d ti0 dervonIfora Loco

lioto duel

#1101 D0e,

jon diy) oga0 ul ti e ousoorluddon ut dio copsóa.

Na.0aP.

101u10-08. 0i te T9ad0s8, o00

isdokly laoroacod to 1,800).

d.onès jáat, do.ld do baokod.y the orpentbaddon

apriois

por asila

Ioo sua noodod lo ro-uetauldas tila snauy soulo do

nuo..t tiio to frru

and a rali illllud p0000.

di tret anount coio a 11ldos

TIMEUA HOU!

no ralse: losallyi tan the olu sodloty did aj nos soutoda

9..1a:l9.

i.a+

10.6111 4002

ou auuld de oallod tian to ou pors our

erord. t., ti,e

dntout o ond uT Ouo

eud a tead i allalor. anus

l'or a alalava

sarlul lf 0:0 yost.

1 130 0110l 311-00

111 8ona1 aBt1den:ua1 08 00810

e tho os tont

wur H-oup" o a081idt10s.

1p0o89 008.0910

170r

Sbo doealo exppodcso

1n ihs 10a11; Inourporatad Egaalea8108 10:10881

"Tho ab fore of the.coodody illl do tho explaltasion ol

поврВітТУ, гвОО влО стО MDONO ог Ігорадивів бовва

z1oolpal1ga88hadtcaodofovrogkc0010000818481o8

Msoorady mnd odt sortios, niy adalads mo taralas loroco.

Bor10d pnNalen and caj'Orer fOts of tUtalltirlendes.

In sta Dotopapor, pudlloatlosa and ottoy bonaa ol propao

gando tia coolo ty i11l atlr Bio pasrlotles al tho 01888000

aua aãoo do lão iblle ousaglanoo cho traslo mállly os lo

80n109 peyla: 19 s1ll figho lo, oless sorarinans rad ono

DESEOTSGLE UI BHO EOTILAS AlADDGO dI RhA DeDIO OR 1ãO COrrOdA

Biplloal da al senta doss end cediedusa, Doo seadot oll

---

## Page 44

but they mort.

utilIo for 18a ande all baial notrado os sho exprosales of

¡dodo and primipall! 18 elil edites pondero, bacio, passa

data, baadoll. s end parter, end dill seto ell tlada of passo

cooledy ulll aloo, ino ald to all groupe or ergentsationé

Elth alallas alas end 1118 el1l1s0 all the so esa 0s troaga8

DOODOGAT, Dy 8DO dUArd Of DIPONtERA dA OFESS dO GRETY OYS

"rico (dho aren allas)....or ald to atsar doredy estio, sossal,

so dollinto: ts old otnora (Doo abora).

"....=Ill'st do

dus ftrut doditood for Eà Inoat araslos of tha old credalatio

pas dotU, Ouu paros.

Thila sui nas also.E sovulad tros aportainons dose.

Laura,

at...

and to drous had borno à roalisy.

tha

illl sa austlelant cor tha roseas.

sently dalliac à trinliod outlia to us prlazles dooze far "por Obllo"

and stus:lia.

ho prubiona invulrodaà persona shortago oi pajer. ros

dietarno.

Büe 1 ió,sdtly fool that chia urgenlaation end 18a oillolal

"3or Chilo"

•alu: a anall nugger of yourger paúplo ora sino titor

astod: 11-818781065

aiid do tha firs ballila, of a grost

salos sight does day aproad thronibort Lasta Asortoa.

Blcooroly and cordially.

(FUNEBRIAN)

i.-."

---

## Page 45

JuDo 17, 1953.

бокт 3:58

Inla 1a to setnomlodgo ulch thánes rocolse of

•ur informative latter of Abill 27, 1753 unich arrived

Sy BrOaTiOr sall.

Ho terrot that an aarlier coply baa

possible, but ina tise alapool has boon sell

spant 19-g1y1n y0ur latest raport and your proposal.

of Mach 5і.

the sorions conaldoration leb

¡ondonco do

sont to i by alraall.

casestler breed is she Foundatson has atudies

your rofor

iril 29, 1953 and appreclatod you,

carnraneng

i our request for furthor in

Tom ation.

Tra abgretiona and contomplatad actliltlos

"ii? pras cortainly

soon to be hionly constatont

1th

4241058)

01.M8

of thai

i'nundation in as such

ngrift-care

1.1

cinsitoration of flisanelal

CArCO.

89 упів r.0.y0

Indicates would do resosgary.

Än.

Indicated, yeur provosal of march

0T.29581

15.9 408-994

arg tha.:.rd

paot,

relation; of particular 1119r0ge

BLorn9.10cal 9100001

Ir:

ths

190,000 poco 1n:9101

1560500

'pl is ani

81809013810

arris

*8.0.1

dirent

present,

19

008208105.

to ute: oxtart tho

1'17 flauros.

which you clad in

Tous 10:tor Of April

P8A11At10

hA918 lor a 1953

Arlinate of aupport wunh marh" bo autained cocalls.

the lipht of intoration at hand and

any.

addittonal iristiation shlch

tha

59r37n910

your ргорова!

and desIrablo

4111

BeLlUlty DhOD 1t nou appoRTa to co. Me

land our subport ic you in ovory

May

possiblo.

Tho jordacion us:l joe to in a roastion

Irane a dafinitiva anatos to your propodal

untIl to

Dro In racelot

(DJAARIAS)

---

## Page 46

14-00000

8aly 28, 8933

(DTHA BEAS

Dear Is;

Rena you pary soch for peas loster el Anna 1619, 1991, esalasado

lotter bolns come 871-ca1l.

lo filo a valvoralty obsidento la sanelogo,

algorale ant lecaspedça. "

¿nina le lo a graphic animplo of dia Bial 08 sars 08s gror da dã. perilo.

8os tis profact vene radesd by "por Calle.

cossent.

(deposed?)

In spilo or lia lual arinal, agobes to poal thas de can/en sach despors

locally for as dal projoct if the sroar, and will ra-artira possibia aspicallas

lion sn 0155 DA86 108L08

Pore la no pierson ial thEre lo a graal daal of sort do lia sona bora.

produ sad uten our add.

Коту втт у 50250,

(FUNBRIAA)

SS09TT:

Scamp lomentai

---

## Page 47

4-00000

SECRET

AIr

N65x-345

Chief of Mission, Santiago

Chief, WID

KUGOWN Matterg

FURIOSO-C

REFIENCES: (a) RCSA-434; (6) SAG0-848; (c) DIR 16626; (a) DIR 17648

1. This 1s to confirm and amplify reference (a), that Headquarters has

prepared the initial letter from DTHiBRAS to Martin J. COKE!LAS.

letter, which requests COIS:IAS to act as the "honorary" DTHABIAS reD-

resenta-ive in Chile, is reing sent air-mail to the COnStIAS residence In

Santiago.

2. As an attachmest to this dispatch te are jor rding the draft of a

suggested

ronly to he sent by COrdi lAS to DIA:LAS, via air mail.

need not use

our suggested letter verbatim, as long as he does incorporato

1n hig reply

the ideas contained in our draft.

3.

Upon receipt of the letter of acceptance from CORNIAS, DTHiriS vill

send COrE:liS a letier of introduction to FUNErRIAl.

DilazuS vill also,

at the same time, alert FiNieRIAl

to the anticipited contact, asking him

to put CErEMIAS in touch

with iCK ORIAl-1.

4.

For security reisons ver are not enclosing corics of the initial DTiMERAS

Jetter

It is suggested that station make its oin ¿ile corios

of the letters sent directly to CoralIAs.

5.

In his contacts with FUMesIAl aud HUNbORIAl-1, COrT IAS 41ll naturally

a greuter Inoredge of the ITIASCAS-PURDERIAL relationship to

daie than would logically he available to him through his own co:respondence

with IT:AREAS. In order to facilitate understanding hetreen COCHIAS and

i clue, broad toon to,

the rext letter from DIFFÀS to CO:S IS

the lettei of introdiction, copies o: the

FELEERIAI-DTEACEAS correspondence to date.

Fessouarters reclises that this

ith FCSW-274, but it 19 telloved that CO:TI'S vill be 1n a firmer rositio

ig-a-vis FUlLB:IAl if he car. rroduce his on cories of such corresiondence

direct fron ETHAlLAS.

6. Since PTA-ENS/

DAVID W. STASER

C/R IAH

!: D F. NOI! AM, JR.

SECRET

---

## Page 48

.=

SECRET

HCSW-345

page 2

6. Since DIHADEAS has written to CUBiIAS on the lisis of a "previous

accuaintance", 1t lov

becomes imperative for CONdIAS to be

briefed or

DTFARAS and

of its person-el.: Hendquarters woulc therefore

like to know the extent of Cosmilas" ornaent knowledge of DIVAülS, in

order that ve may supply hir with uhntever background information he may

need to be convircing in his role as an old friend of a DTHAFENS director.

7.

Headçuerters will forvard corments requested in raregrarh 4 of HCSA-409

subsecuent to the actual introduction of COn..IrS into the FURIOSO-C

picture.

J.C. KING

-..

Attachment:

Drait of suggested reply of COKENIAS

to DIVARRAS

31 August 1953

Distribution:

3 - Sartlago

2 - WH/FR.I

1 - WH/Tail Room

1 - RI

WHD/IVEbert/ mv

SECRET

---

## Page 49

ABBESTROZAS BOI

HCS635

DO aT

I BATO TaCOITEd End sinalderd sous dund Jorror os.

Blan; and Detodi:" PeCOlDl of lo MadneDary fartãor dorallo,

B6e038.

You vare enifraly corrost in samlig thas 1 hate salntalaad en delive

lazerost. In the food cort of la foundarlos. In Snot, Dy Intoreat, porses

then dallalag sinco I loft UnaU. B., hes estally saaruesed in thou os

riy absorrationa and arpertence hero in chillo.

Thoro do a creal nood does

appo cor just such elirillon do you have stalloned in your dorces, and i

muld sul case en aprortundly ouch as you have prosentado aboratig l eca

partribula to tha. Poundailon'a proire, of asalmenco.

In 00:01a9101 2051 ney tial I shall look foruard lo soaling and carto

IRA MIRA MN!.UlAl end PUNTElALal en soon as jou cin paralst no mith the

JarATa 0f introduction to they gentleiron. I a 770 that the Look at Mend

Is not oro lo be soan. rod lu taras of salary, end l chall donaldar the

aallarsition l emact lo datino pres than tort as emplo ranuzorarlos.

Dantong Jou aral: tOT your exprasator as corridanca in so, 1 ea

•Vor, truly yours,

-..

---

## Page 50

3. 0ST

Security dotechern

October 6, 1953

Dear FUNEBRIAL.

seek the servicos of a U.S. citizen to represent us in any foreign country

in which ore or more Foundation grants nay be crerativo.

In addition, however,

I earnestly believe this arrangenent will serre to strengthen the very procising

relationship alreedy established between us ard to stimulate those activities

which are of mutual interest to us.

I had net mentioned this stioulation in

our previous correspondence, but I do so row i- view of the possiblé iminanco

of a fornal agreement between Propaganda Por Guile and the Foundation.

roccipt of your promised printing cost estirsies would pave tho way for approval

and detailed planning of an actual grant of assistanco.

It is my hope and expectation that is. CONNIAS will call upon you in

tho near futuro to present his respects and ours.

As our representative he is

authorized and prepared to discuss all ratters of mutuai concern.

IT. CORENTIAS

has been instructod to eztond to you, to si..

(to whom, I trust, you

will Intzoduce MI. COKMTAS), and to Jour gross

as a whole, every possible courtesy

It is ry sincore desire that this personal. contact will prove

to be of cosmon benefit.

Enclosed you will find a copy of z letter of this date, to li. COlAS.

At the sarie time, I an sending lI. COKONIAS a copy of this letter to you, as well

as copies of our previous correspondence, so test be may familiarise himself with

develonments to date.

Trusting that you and Sr.

will receive M. COKONIAS as our

representative in the sare spirit with which he has offered to serve, and hoping

that this arrangement will nark the beginning ci a worthwhile and enduring

association, I ranain,

Vest

cordially you's,

DrEARIS

CC:

CORENTIAS

---

## Page 51

14-00000

Santiago, 31 de Octubre de 1953

Muy apreciado senor

DI''ABEAS

dicho que no es necesario que

•responder oportunamente, cono hubiera sido nt deseo, sus cartas.

Ia estamos en contacto con el Senor

y esperanos

Llegar muy luego a un ertendimi ento para proseguir con nuestro proyecto

de reeditar el periodico, "Por Chile"

El sen sI COKENIAS le enviars my pronto un resuren de 10 que

estanos acordando.

Se despide muy afectuosamente, S.S.

FUNEBRIAL

(Acove letter by FUNGIRIAL achnowledges that he has been introduced to

the Pro plansthat the latter vill send to DillAS shortly a resurs of

Securio lafciraton

---

## Page 52

14-00000

Whumiräat

LEOlOsE QuEling CLaATORCa SEACE

Projoet MItla MRIOSO C (PiCiC) tetoniuont 10. im Profoct No. mumin

Dovolopid by

Lomn

. Lô Bdoc. to: 392

Rovimsed. bg:

Caso OP$1000°

hoped co tnbut fif geking iafonisy

571.1954

eiseden $2, z9 Jan'54)

(PP/PAR - concussed on 3, 2> Jan. 54)

Apora (SUD - Dir- sas mate belarr from" 2, 10 Jal. FY)

eppiansos miste bualorio fe60

& nditiong

A POTAD MN - Comce

vad on $ 2, 12 Jeele. '5%)

" "funes esilablo"

prépig - for eel - 19 7eh'54

55-60R-5T

uets

---

## Page 53

4-00000

incurlty inferration

(POCROVEL)

Projoat IIElo FURIOSCE

_Amindmant No. 3

inject No. c

No following Line and Staff Offluora of ha Hastern Henlaphoro Dislairo have

aigned and concurt with thie projoot.

Conourrade Psychological Matara DeFicer MD Davil U Eevss

PES 22

Date

Economie Marfare Officor WHD.

Dato

Subotage Perfare Officer HHD.

Data

Countersabota a Officer WED_

Date

Pramilitary Officer WilD

Dato

Lator officer Min

Dato

rogintles Officor WHD

Dato

Dudent OFficor FEO THU

Dista

Plans Officer P&O WHD.

APCrenshaw fe

2200053

Projeut Coordinator Hila

Shot!

Chief, F&0 THD

Dato

Conditione of Approval

---

## Page 54

14-00000

¿ecurity terror!

- 2 -

PROJECT CUTLIIE

Projects FURIOSQO (PROVEL) Arendiant Nc. 2.

Type:

Operational

I. AUIFORIZATION

A. Pusic ProsTan Authorication

1.

Basic project PEGROVEL was approved on 12 Febrin

1952 for the establishment or a rechanist capable af conducting

1951. This task was assigned priority one in Phase I (1 Jani. -

30 June 1952) In the aforesentioned plan. Funds in the anount

of $4,700.00 were allotted to this Project, to provide salary

for contract agent Paul D. LANGSVIN (FULLITNATOR-1) for the

renainder of FY 52, to cover the cost or bringing hin to PERmIS

'or a pariod of covert training, provide his per diem allowanc

hile here, and to transport iin baci to Santiago, Chile

following complotion oi training.

2. Amendment No.l to basic project PEGROVEL was aparoved

on 14 July 1952 for the anount of

$8,000 (later reduced to $6,000)

¿o be made available as a loas, at 45 interest, to contract agont

Paul D. LANGEVIN; the loan to be secured by a lien on nachinery

and equipment valued at apprati-ately $10, 000; interest and

principal to be anortized at tie rate of $500 per month, tine full

arount of the agent's salary.

Inthorization for PBGROVEL Arerd-

sent No.I was the same as that for the basic project PEGROVE.

3. Tho 1954 WiI Operational Program, approved by Chief,

SUBARK on 10 August 1953, authorized a maximum expenditure af

$20,000 for this project durirg rY 1954.

---

## Page 55

14.00000

..?.

SLUTET :

Security il gnation

•II.

A. Sine as for basic Project FBOROVEL

B. Budgatary. data for this amendrent (Annex A)

C. DILABEAS - FUlLERIAL correspondence (Annex B)

D. HCS-W-345, with attachmont (Annex C)

655-350.

Security Informetor

---

## Page 56

14-00000

Stali

Secure Intermatir

- 6-

III. THE PROPOSAL

le Statement ai the proposed

1o In bole rojent, PACROVAl, it was proposed t

undertako to cereloptent in Gule af a group or committo

commosed ai Silican nationals which rould ongage overtly and

actively in Enti-EGGYPSY elforts ua lioild function as a Will

rechanis for tho acco-plisiment af WiD nissions (a) and (b)

aforonentioned.

As tho first stop in lmionenting the develop-

•Dent of the carittoe, it was proposed to engage tho servicos

af a PEPINS rational in Chilo as a contract agent whose task

was to select,

na exercise subtle guidance over a qualified

Chiloan,

the lsttér to act as the organizor of the cornittee.

It was further stated that at such tize as development of the

carmittee warrants,

the necessary steps would be taken to

place the cosittee in the proper relationsitip with the

DIHABEAS foundstion foi puroses of cover and support.

The

provisions o the foregoing aro now revised in accordance witk

the proposal of this amendiont as set out below.

Tho overall

objective ai tle basic projoct remins unaltored.

It is proposed, in this Amerdrent No.? to Basic

project preactal, that WiD furnish teenical and financial

support, not to exceed $10,000 during Fiscal loar 1951, t0 an

indigonous group of Chileans for the purpose of aiding the

grown in its crert anti-BCGYPSY and anti-SIGHT KUGOWN-typo

activities.

KD suppert will be specificully iosigned to assist

In the rc-actiration of the group along its criginal lines and

to foster ly support periodically advanced, the revival of the

group's afficial organ, a wecily news nagasino. It is antici-

pated that the indigonous group will evontually also serva as

& nechani an or the channeling of WiD support to other worthy

groups with sinilar aims. (Seo Anner C).

Be Backfround

1. In 1947, 9 Excup of influential Chilean business and

intellectual leaders formed a legally chartered organization

dedicated to az overt and active anti-EGGYPSY and anti-BICHT

the working class audience.

2.

Througs the encouragement and subtle direction by

Second letore rar

---

## Page 57

14-0000

in.

Scenile sabarnatug

Mission Santiago, worlding brough contract agent Paul 1.

LANGEVIN, FUIBRIAL, an unwittine. Cilem vith excellent

contacts in business and intolluctual circlos, has succcedoc

n ro-activating tie forar organisation, and has recontly

approached DIlATeds with a rcquest, for support for the groups

activitius.

C. Current Status

subtly guiding a Chilean citisen as the indigenous organizer

31 August 1953.

2. The present camittee, composed of Influential Chilean

citizens, has been in touch with the DIllAREAS foundation since

Tarch, 1953.

The initial contact and subscquont correspondence

with DIHABEAS have been handled by FUNERIAl, who, while not

a menbor of the original (1947) group, 1s an outstanairg

caricaturist and satirist vith abundant experience in

jounalism and publishing, and tho has taken the initintive

in re-forming tho once-active commutee.

3.. DINAREAS is currently awaiting receipt, fron fUNDERIAl,

of a detailed estimato of financial support needed, to include

printing costs of the group's woekly news nagazine.

publication itself will be published and edited by FUNEBRIAL-1,

a dynando anti-BGGYPSY individual who also published the

official organ of the 1947 organization.

abovementioned estimates, and pending thoir review and approval

oy WHD, DTHABDIS should be prepared to extond technical and

financial support up to the amount of $10,000 per annur.

is understuod that such WHD support, channeled through DIABEAS

will supplement at least an oqual amount which is to be raised

locally by the FUNERRIAL committoe.

'Contract agent Paul D. LANGEVIl has been replaced,

as the cut-out and'principal agent for WHD, by Staff Agent

Inrtin J. CORONIAS.

The latter is presently being Introduced

into the operation as the Chilean representative of the

nade possible by his capacity as a DIlARFAS representative,

or see

ten carton?

---

## Page 58

Seca my latermation

=3 -

vili meit sù list Ininent control over the activities

of thie ETOLE.

D.

daventores ta be deriseu by KUGOiN

• the activitios a the Funstai

organizatica, WilD vill obtain the servicos di a socio

rechnia: imitting di CrokE Interost, capablo ai conductin

astonsive treati activities on an overt and indiganous basis

2.

In sadition to execution of its own KUGari type

other Inaigezous groups having stillar aims. By estonsion of

support to cher such groups, tho FUNEBRIAL orgmisation could

thus becos the nucleus of a secure KUGOWN network, requiring

no direet contact by WHD/KUGOWN personnel under CACID cover.

sirce this operation vould be funded by WHD headp

quarters, through the WiD mechanism DTHAZEAS, end since control

will bo excroised by DIFAREAS through its Staff Agent represen

tative in Culle, lission Sintingo will be relioved of all but e

monitoring ani roporting responsibility.

with the l pian of renoving diroct control of, ma attribution

for, KUGOWN operations from the official station.

E.

Risks Involrod

Rists Involved in establishing the KUGON channuls

envisaged in this project should be ninimol. The indigenous

individuals concerned have been racruited un an wvliting

basis and will be handled by Martin J. CORMIAS directly.

The

FUMERIAL group, as an existing logal entity, has goud natural

cover and con accopt direct attribution for its KUcat acti-

No Station personnel will bo involved an: tho possibi-

funds and a COICE intorest.

SEBRET

sarig normative

---

## Page 59

4-00000

Security toto mator

- 10 -

IV. TIE REGOILENDATION

That the tunds aurently approved for this project under

the wiD Gurational Plan for MY 1?54 in the acuit of $20,000

e autorized for the Implehontation of the proposal outlined i

This support is not to exceed $5, 000 during th

renairder of FY 1954. Furis lised in furthering the rovised plans

for this project will be providod periodically to the DINAMAS

funding nechanism after receipt of statomonts fron FUlEBRIAL ag

to tho proposod use of the sondes.

- SEGRET

Security Intermation

---

## Page 60

14-00000

SECRET

Saeuid: ix. cantion

-I-.

F.

SPERATICIN, OUTLINE

Area of Operation

1.

Ceorraphic erea

a) Chile

2.

Specific target groups

a) Business and intellectual circles

b) Working alass roader audience

B. Onerational Control

I. Control exercised by leadquarterg

WHD/HUGGial will exercise operational control through

DEAREAS which will disturse fires to the FUMEllIAL (rOup

In accorrlance with specific WeD instructions.

Control

will be effected through the allotrent of funds on the

taris of buageted need, throug: DIAtAs, to the FUNcRIAL

proup upon cvidenco of satisfactory performance oi the

missions assigned to this organization.

2. Control exercised by the feld

Chief of Mission, Santiago, ill exercise indirect

Agent Vartin J. COKENIAS.

By means

• Independent checking and reporting procedures, Missi

ntiago will soon headquarters iniorned of the FUNEERI

C. Duration of the Proiect

.:.:

ProgramS.

D. Possibility of Overlapping Jurisdiction

It 13 anticipated that FUERTAL ney oventually be used

to crannel support to otho: groups in Cile, either existing

STORST A

securey determatog

- -

---

## Page 61

14-00000

n232..,.,1

or coreplatce, wide.

Cups Tay call baboon tee provtico oi

other imp/nucon procots in Mile.

E.

Persornel. fenuired

1. FURIAL d FUSTIALI, both unvitting Chilean officials

§tre ituatiAl organization, aro inculately availabl

is Principal Aront and sub-agent, rcopectively

F. Cormunication Plan

1. The present direct corespondence between DElAREAS aid

FUBURIAL will be supplerented by corresyondence between

DILARAS and l'ariin J. CORELIAS.

C.

Support. Plan

1. Sunport to lo furalshod in toadquarters

support furnished by noacyuarters will consist

xiarily of operational, propaganda, and technical advico,

as well as the provision of tundr.

2. Sumport to be fumished in the tald

lIssion Suntiago vill obsere covertly the activities

of FutIli's croan to ascoss the effectiveness of such of

thoto astivitics as are rolated to this project.

3. AniLEE

At the present tire the mecific financial roquirc-

Perialically, overy

this.

STUTTY

живніх пилини оки-. ;

---

## Page 62

§ information

ton approval of tale buent by loadiuertors, the funde

will bo place to t, account of Staff dont lartin J.

CORSIAS, Who vill 'be corcuitaule for thoir disresent in

accoiraner vith Corsirential Muds roculations.

CONTAS

will dishurse much fin in the anilos: mounts rossible,

consistent with; raintainine tho opirating ctriciency of the

procct.

le ahall not, norcorer, make accitional disburso-

nonto lintil to las receivea tengihic evironce of expendituro

(rocolnts) for previous dichurserenis.

arcinary disburce-

-onts should not excood 51, 030.00 and chould be covered by

reccipts within thirty days. Where the Strif Afont is

certain trat reccipts cannot bo obtained for largo cisourse-

norts and where the enemiituros. connot bo autherticated with

cortninty by tlie Staff ayent, an aonarent to the project

slould be prepared and a proposed acrinistrative plan should

bo forwarded to licacquarters for approval.

Staff Agent

lartin J. COIFIAS shall take all reasonable precautions to

Instro that he maintains complete control of the financial

phases of thin operation at all tines and that all disburse-

sonts adhere to the Confidential Firds Rogulations and the

objectives authorized in this project and its amendients.

H. Ronorts Focedures

In granting finencial aid to rulERIAL's croUp, DrilAleAs

will roglost pericoic reports of activities and experditures.

these roperts will he covcrtly clord by lassion Santiago.

I.

Ccordination

No coordination vill be required beyond WHID.

J. Covez:

is a complotoly cvert and legitinate local organization,

with an avowed anti-EGGYPSY progran, the fUllERIAL groun has

natival, cover.

WiD support will he covered by gionneling finds

through the secure DITAPEAS mecharism, lartin J. COENIAS is a

Staff iront under unorficial cover in adaition to vici his

relatienship with the fullIAL group will bo corried out in

his capacity as the local representative of DIllArSAS.

к.

Securaty

All incigenous personnel involved in this project are

witting of MYCKE intorest.

ho known by the group.

": ...

---

## Page 63

14-00000

PROJECT FINANCIAL DATA

SECRET

SECURITO ISFORMATICT

PROSECT CATTENT

TUCSO C A:22062

•ISCAL SERIOD CRIERE:

"HAY HOT EXCEED SEGRET CLASSIFICATION

FESPONSIBLE STAFF OR DIVISION

Daresha:

195 2_ THRU 30 JUNE 195 K.

CASE COFICER

Jola: No Isaaras

A. PERSONNEL REQUIREMENIS

and

estimatod total consensation far, salary, alloadnios, travel and

pune pais fron projace.

NUYSER

TYPE

U. S. PERSONNEL

FOREIGN MATIOVAL

BASE SALAZI

ESTIVATED COMPENSATION

ALL OTMER

TOTAL

STAFF EMPLOYEES

STAFF AGENTS

CAREER AGENTS

CONTRACT AGENTS

CONTRACT CONSULTANTS

DETAILED PERSONNEL

FIELD AGENTS

MILITARY

ALL OTHER

C*

200 (travell otc,)

200

3,000

500

*Salary pria tair Station 5/0 Alott

TOTAI A.

8.

5

32:,.020

$700

SUPPLIES, MATERIEL AND EQUIFMENT

Inficate amdunt

requiros in applicato spaces.

Arach completo supporting Iis: for each.

COMMO

CHEMICAL

QUARTERMASTER SUPPLIES

OTHER SUPPLIES

MEDICAL

$ 200

ORDNANCE

SPECIAL DEVICES

OTHER EQUIPMENT

$

3,500

$3,700

TOTAL 8.

$300

C.

OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Indicate volume and nature of expenses such as 111

maintaince of ins

of information,

tional houses abroad 121

spor purchaso

Offico, rontal and utilitios

Publication equinent ind simplios (locally purciased)

Local reiniurseront foi repair, printing, and siziler sarvices

57,200

2,000

$00

TOTAL C.

S4, 700

D.

turned over to infividuals

SUBSIDY OR PROPRIETARY

PATMENTS

objective,

to be expandad ly the

if financial accounts, factua

nill Da obtaines.

lone anticipatca

FORA MO

JUN 1952 59-25

TOTAL D.

TOTAL FUMO REQUIREMENTS (A + 8 + 6+01

$8,000

SECRET

---

## Page 64

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

€.

FUNDING REQUIRENENTS

MURIMATE DATES AND ANGERIS CE MINEY REGGIRED

Dacomber 1953

January 1954

$500

Irch 1954 and each aliccoeding month throught Juo

2,000

195, 34, 000 caci.

Febrian 195.

7,300

FORM REQUARED

U.S. DOLLARS

SPECIAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS OR METHODS OF TRANSMISSION

• FOREIGN (SPECIFY)."

J NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMGMTS (SPECIFY)

Mone lalain

F. SPECIAL REQUIREMEMTS

other faces

Indicato

rectarenco he no lausade priel support solutes

land

specificationally the

offices and equipmont.

-.

SECRET

---

## Page 65

14-00000

fir."ies

FURIOSOC

2

5т-7:1..1t

Janglacialra, B159 ee

W.H

ApPi3ia1

_Aichantheun

19 Fet. 54

i'rring.: in

N. iltirs

Fpida arc

..-d)-

-14

--.iiiiae a..

......... . .

. .- --

г......

'ita

---

## Page 66

4-00001

no les

LEONATON PORI CLIFT, APECIAL SECCISY DIVISION

в 11/37C/372

1o I3 18 requested tIni 1 Ilaltod Dados De 103ued t0

9s:000 to the Aisdia. MLlalas, 2210 5" 515001, 1, J, 1, and

1311101250.

tr, Falllipo' nendo to ltre acoroa lo teses tu12dlugs

censuse of l1g frequent coisei sith rousosa 098ic1a2s 1o

nien eguip bia for his tuire sceltimoni.

Por ferther laforastion, couract l. 1. lisley, pel

ESCUTIEY OPPIGOS, TOCa LiLa X itiladina, orianalos sEve,

ISIGNEDI COLWELL &. BEBAS

POR

JOUR B. BAREI

nectar Chist

Paychological ed Haranilitar; Oparazlona i: est

85t.

31874

PP/ADI/drewleyssa, 20 August 1954

Diats'lbution:

Acareas00 - 0r1g. 8s 1

CHARGED FALA IP/CRS **1

......

3?1

..

---

## Page 67

SECRET

PROJECT

FURIOSO C

S. ARALIST

C. McNew

X 1'2. CROSS RESERRED TO TAIS PILE

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND

CROSS REFERENCE

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH

OCC-IMENT

IDENTIFICATION

R2AS-1012480

SOURCE DOC.

STROOL NO

BSit

DATE

F. SOUMCE CRYPTONY

1D. DISSENIRATED IN

TOATE OF TARO.

EVALUATIO

•. DATE PROCESSIO

28 Nov-61

DOCUMENT

DATE

DISPOSITION

13.

YRAASFERRED TO

RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORUATION

Project portion has been removed and sent to RI/AR.

For review of file, contact RI/AR x-2471 using RI

file number Indicated above.

s-ref 201-88764 FULLINATOR-I

FILE THIS FORD IN FILE NO.

roy 867

SECRET

17-10)

---

## Page 68

14-00000

10.118%

reits :

1'%

13.0 (in1,1

SACHUSAN

1R5 5-4074

David d. Phillion

Heportor

Áig. 5,

1975

Issistant Attornoy General

In chargo ne freuden mi Irortlen het Inguludos

Dancetrine of Juilico

Machinkon Dol.

Dear Sir,

12 58 PH'75

Infoserion ci bnd duch einet Gebrang, Triane inferation

so alie

OTOM

PA: 10:

'!..

---

## Page 69

14-00000

==.

25 Augus: 1095

David A. Phillips Request on The Bay City Times

75-4978

---

## Page 70

"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN TILIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, RAI GE-58, ON OR BEFORE

DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FORM 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS:

3. UH / Chile.

n. Capriso

LPEISGA-JO

Di Isaac

6:

7.

_ DUE DATE

To

647)

Requester

Please return

this

reference to RID/ARD/RCU

immediately after use.

RECORDS CENTER

JOB NO. 61-1013/80

SPACE NO. 71713

450740

11.

14..

15.

FORM

3-87

45074°

J0B 61-1013 BOX

IMPEDIATELY AFTER USE

RETURN TÓ RECORDS CENTEH

RETURN TO:

RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58

610 USE IRONOVE

SECRET

OP- 88

• CONFIDENTIAL

FILE NO._

DOCUMENT

FOLDER NO.-

BOX NO.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

2

14

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 71

"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURY THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, RV GE-58, ON OR REFORE

DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DÖCUMENT TO ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

1282 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

3. Wit /ükele

1h. Сарікса

D. Isuac

IP/EIS G'A-,0.

DUE DATE

1471

To Requester

Please return this

reference to RID/ARD/RCU

Immediately after use.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14

15.

FORA

5-0?

RECORDS CENTER

41-1013/80

JOB NO.

SPACE NO._

274R5}

61=1013

450740

RETURN TO:

RID/ARD/RCU GE-58

610 *

pa!.

CAES

FDITIONS

OP-61

SECRET

FILE NO.L

DOCUMENT

FOLDER NO.

Box No.

- 14

INTERNAL

USE OMLY

CONFIDENTIAL

militi

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 72

"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, RM GE-58, ON OR BEFORE

DATE INDICATED.

3. iF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION -

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FO6E 179O USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

3. WH/Chele

IP/EIS

GA-10

D, Isaac

DUE DATE.

ch 25

107)

Tỏ Requester:

Please return this

reference to RID/ARD/RCU

immediately after use.

.

6.

7.

8.

RECORDS CENTER

JOB NO. 161 - 1013/86

SPACE NO._

450040

14.

15.

RETUTN TO RECORDS CENTER

INMEDIATELS AFTER USE

зов 2 - 1913 вох?

459740

FORM

3-02.

RETURN TO:

RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58

610 56

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

np.61

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

FILE NO._

DOCUMENT

FOLDER NO.

BOX NO.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

/

L4

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 73

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

TORM 2593

13-131

---

