# 104-10290-10190

## Page 1

104-10290-1019

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

«*'"

I:, St 1900

MOS EAT AI

"TORITY MUNI

NETIY&

Tailiat

EAME USLO SEIN TZUL TUNI MANI BETA HEID PARI CALE ANCA AT NETI

-X9

AARA NAMI WHAT SING

outr

OKIE PRAN

LOND VIAN THAN

KACU NAB0 BACH FEED TEL JUII, TIDE INT SLAN ARDÌ

KhAn

FORLD BRIXP

(MONURN IN BIARTS, REMAINIFO INTO RRLEARABES TO ULAIBON.)

1.

BERLIN: TIE COMUNISTS VIEN AS "ONVIC)AL" THE TALES

BARY. AND DIST

DARLIN NEGGTLATORS WHICH ANTSVID, THE AGRESMENT ON

ВИТАНАЯ ?

ER AND CONSIDEA TERN A BASA TO LASCOR'S "JASO

BETWEEN

CiEN

PPE

SHOBAR BOR

HILLY BRANDT; ON THE OTHER EAND,

AS CALY "TICINICAL" AND AS NO SETBACK TO HIS STATUNE IN

PEGAIDS

HEST

GERSAS POLITICS;

3. YESOSZAVIA: //TITZY 1S APPARETRGY NO LONGER DEEDY YAYCLES I

ADCIIAINTBATION OF TUCOSIAY ATYAIRS.

HE HAS SXHIBITED., LACK OF

CHOTLEDGE ARD UNDETSTANDING OF A NUMBER OP FORNION POLICE ISSUES AST

JAS MIN DIVRETINO SAILE OF RESPONSLOI MITIS

"NO FESIVNSIBLA

OFFICIALS HAVE EXPLISED CORCERN THAT HIS FACETIST MAVY NINTI

3. MORTTI VIETHAL ¡CAVY PROPAGARDA PIRONAIS CA. TUS TIRIN

ARRIVERBAHY ON TIE NATIONAL FEDNT FOR THE TIGERAXI. DE SONG FLETCAN

---

## Page 2

20 DE: 63 00

- SID CEN

47-2

90407

(PASE: 100)

SUNSHIS A CRONIO CONTI

DUCE IN HANDI THAT INBURERETE CAN FLETCIN

AND MINTS LINTE DULLTION

ET. THE LOUTH VIAT-

CBEFORTEDLY

nah: CHUB:

MOSILES NOT ARE DART

Of THe

CONST ArEN

CHRANS, XIVOLVE-

DIENT IN THE SOVIET-MORIN

NED AIR DRUN

# AN ALAO INCREASING.

A 80Y15T 20-1 CLANS BUNCHASER HAB ARRIVED SH CHEAT RATRIS AND THO

OFIES ARE PROBABLY IN ROUTE.

6..

S83R: E

BUSECHEY'& LONG-RANGE PROGRAM FOR DIVILOSHENT OP

TIE 8071Y CHICAL INUSTRY IN ID ES ACCOUNTED BY FATKANCHHET

IN OTLER PARTS OF THE ECONOMY DURIND THIS MARY THE TRADE

"not iet.

CONSUMER SINVICES, AND SOIR LAVY INDUSTRIAL PRODACTTTN

ATPECTED, AND IT SHAUS LIBLY THAT THATE BILL SIN ELITITO IN TIR

RATE AT MICH MILITARY EXDIIDITURAS RAVE INCROBIZTO SPACE LOSI

& ITALY DUCTS AGGIT TES LORD GOVERNETI'S TIALILITY MATE

SUMIND SORTE! : ANILT OF STROSS VOTE IN LOAFIDENCE IT

MCENE MISS SUI CIOUT IT 19

THE 7Y

50070

''"''tri"

it.

rgere..

---

## Page 3

(DAGE THESE)

90404

SUPPOTA O SIX CRIVIDENCI TOTY MORD'S POSITION IS VIRURA NECAUSE

IP 1015 ANO DECAUSE CE INA VATICAN'S DINASURE UN CHASTIAN DENOCI: "

RIGHTNINGBES NOS TO BIRAR PARTY URITE( CONF

7. CURA: THE CASTRO REGI SHES LITT @ CULTIVATIRE AFRIC:

COUNTRIES AB MAY OF LESSENING ITS ISOLATION FROM THE FRIB FORID

#RABBY LA TANCANYIKA INDICATIO THIS.

I ADDITION, CORA HAS, SURINC

THE PAST MORES, EXPANDIED CONTACTS WITH HIS COMITRIES SOUTH OF TIE

BENARA, THERE IS ALSO BRABON TO BUSPECT AFRICANS COME TO CUE: GE

CHOLARSHIPS ARE GETTING TRAINTRE IN CUS

224334071086

-8.. UK: BRITISH FORDION. POLICE U

IS TOULAS-HOES GOVERILGNT

INCRBABTIOLS FOCUSKD ON EATPIIC TER HAST-HAST DIALOGUS OPEN AND

INSVING RELATIONS HITE TEST GENIANY.

BOtH SIR ALEX AND FORSIGN

SECRETARY SUTLER ESPECIALLY DETLINNED TO EBRP EXTORINE ARRAS

POSSIBLE AGRIMENT HITTI MOSCOW - A POLICY WHICH PAID GET HANDSORDELY

FOR CONSSIVATIVES IN ELDOTIONS OF 1955 AÑO 1059. MAIN DEJECTIVE ..

BUTLER'S RECENI VISIT, BONY WAS TO SOUNT OUT GREMAN ANACTIÓN TO SUCH

BRITISR INITIATIVES. /I

9." BRITIOR GUIANA. JACAN AND IS LISUTEHANTS MALE BEEN ATTACAING

RULEADIN: OFFICIA,

• sire.

weinen

REPROCUCTION PY DIREE MINE IN, KANING

x....

---

## Page 4

00 8:

petition can a roari ana

'alterite,

indecisinien

Camü.1a19

I CAN WI

iP42

(SAga P002)

0. 458?60

225

" Ranti is

CAL DIVISIONS AND I CANETON SENER TO CONTEST

ASTRES

CHO TEAR CE THY TO BLOCK

CAPTA TO VIOL

IN PARTES, BRAVIATIS RAYE

XING & TENTATITE

ACHERNET HOT SO ATTES & RACH OUR FONTELE.

10. FRANCE: PARIS IS TRYIN TO PROBOTE TRANS WITE

CHRUNIST

CHORA BY TICOIAGIES PRSVATEFITIS SO EVELOP HEW HAP

KSTY THERE

TEANT ARE BUILT IN LIMITATIONS TO

STIET TRAT FAKICH-CHINESE

TRADE CAN GROT, COMPIMIEITALY PROFICIS ARE FEW. AND CREDIT PROBINE,

CONTINUS TO LIMIT. PURCHASES BY CHINEBK WEN BURI PRIMARILY, INTETENCE!!

IN OBTAINING FRANCH TECHNICAL SAILIS. PARIS INT HAST IN CHINESR

TRADK AÑTO EXPANDED CHATURAL CONTACTS WITH PRIPIRO HAVE STIACLATEN

SPECULATION THAI SOLE SORT OF DIPLISATIC RACOGTITION IS IN TIP.

OFFING. THIS IS STOUTLY DERIAD AT ALL LETTLE OF FRENCH GOVERNMIT!

i:. FLILANU: FOR EL BECOND TINE IF POUR MONTES PIRAND IM

GOING. TEROUGH A CABINET CRISIS BROUGET OU BY DISAGPFIZENT MITALI TIC

RULING COALITION OVER DORISTIC IADISLATION.: A MOS-POLITICA:, COMBINANI

a room, man

2100720: 90105

SECRET

11pr...

---

## Page 5

200

if tire

9040

(PAGE FIVR)

O' CIVIL ERRANTO, EBADKO BY ECONOMIST FRIO LENTO, HAS BRE?

INPOISE TO SEATS DUTIL THS PRESANI COFTADYERSY IS RESOLVER. "N

ALTERUATIVS SOLFFIONS SHIN LIHITA TO AGRARIAN HIMONITY GOVERNENT.

PECOSTITUTICS OR AGRARIAN-DOSINATED COARITION OR AS A LAST RESORT.

GANTRAL ELUCTIONS. THATEVER THE OUTCOMS, PRISINT

IN DESIRA

CONTIN EROTE RELATIONS, BOSCON CAN OUT ARAII DURJ RIS TRIP TO TE

12.

BOUT SOIRA:. PRESIDENT PAR CHORD-HUI'S DOEXHATION OF THE

MATIONAL AE

CONSTITUTIONAL BEGINS HAY TRANSUBE POLITICAL DUINING TO A BED

ANEHA, TES CONTROVERSIAL FORES

ER SECURITY CHIT MIN CHORO-PIL. COTROLS

THE PARTY APPARATUS, AND HIS MARY INHAIRS ARS LINALY TO IRY TO USE

THZ LOGIBLATTYS PROCHSSES TO TRY TO WINST POWER FROM AL: PRESIDENT

PAR STILL BACKS INS, HOWEVER, AND TEST ARD THEIR COHOBYS WILL CONTISUS

TO LAAS TES COVERI

INT'S MAJOR DCISION. TUS CARINET HSADED DE,

CROE TU-SON APPEARS TO RAVE BEST CHOSEN TITH A MIND TO BATANCING

FACTIONAL AND SECTIONAL, INTERESTS AND FOR AN ABILITY TO CARRY OUT.

RATHER THAN FORMULATE POIICY, WITH EXACTIONS DYER,. THE RIGINE: 15

DiLINING DEPICER

5 064

"go alon

i...

PERORUCT! DE DINER THAN ME M0G60010 1 190000N0T

PEATIMH

the 1.49

Kirin Nin

---

## Page 6

01906.

20 tod

9224610 951155.25

100 7 121644

::11442

TROUTINE

INTO

(JAGE BIS)

LORY TO SPO DICISIONS CA LESS CASTANIS QUITTONS A STAGAIT

SOUTAY LET I PIRATION IS IS SO PIO DICOT IT

RISING RICH

STRIDS DITO DE AT PORE PAS SO ALSO AURIOES TO

COOLIES TIME TEAR OLE MISORIATTONS FOR A HONATIZATION DE RELATICIS

13. FOR TEST T OLD CARES CHORS APPEARS TO IS

ROSCHNO A CLIMAX FOLLONIO TEE PAILINA OR BOES MANOR PARTIES TO.

BRING BINOR PARTIES INTO COALITION ARRANTS ONLY A COALITION

BETWE THESE THO, PRISE MINISTER INOWU'S SPELICAN PROPIB'S PARTY

ANY THE JUSTICE PARTY, OR A "RATIQNAL COALITION" ON ALL POLITICAL

CROUPS, PAIRS TO DE TELED. DESPITE THE DESP DIFFERENCES, AN

ASSOCIATION BSTYIEN THE THO HAT PROVE FRABIALS, FOR TEE POLITICIAN?

FRAR THAT EXTEADING THE CRESIS MUCH LUNGER NIGHT PROVOT MILITANT

TETRAVIATION.

CONF

11. CORCOR: //TIS ADOUZA LEGINS 'S MUSITION RITAIRE PRECARIOUS

ITS EXTREAS LEPTIST OPPONENTS JOINED IS & "COMMITTRE CY SITIORAL

LIBERATION CUT ITUE TO PLOT MAIRST IT TEA VEIR DAAZZAVILLE BAS?

(00+21.849194

ARICASING DARIERA

mate, done

Cats.

dini drai

None so

iciate in.

---

## Page 7

PACE

PASSY CONTACTS DE FELLES LAVE SENT RAISSARIRS

LEOPOLO ILLE LEADERS. AN VASION DE TES CONGO: NES ERSTIGATION

"COUP D'Y THE CONSO MMY TUE WAKNESS ON THE LEQPOLOVILLE ADCIS

ESPECIALLY THE QUESTIONABLE RELIABILITY CE GENERAL MOBITUS, ARMY

JIIISONT RIDGOR HINON ISTI SLOGASCHI THO JHE SIONVINE ATAVETS

AND TRABLE DELLED STUDENT AGITATION MAY BECOUR A FACTOR INISTEM OF

MIS CLORE COMICTICIS TO STUDENT GROUPS OF THO WIGE OFFICIALS ARCHITEY

DUSTSO ER TOREIGN SILKISTER MABIKA-RALANDA AND LONDON CHANGE FILIAS

GANZA IN DIE MEEST DELIERATIONG TOMARD WHITING & CONSTITUTION

PROVIRCIAL VOSORA DELTATMO A TOOSE NERANGEASTT APPEAR GOIGNORE

ENCOURAGEN

A CENTRAL AND NORTICIN LÃOS ARE CONS DREINE SYM

"'IN

PrayRis CUTe 1o6c0rG15/460%30%

1:19

---

## Page 8

13106.

CEN

NEED MESSAGE

SACART

COR

1410

9040

THE CAPABILITY PD LATE SHAHE COILI

FLESHERS, THE CONTINUIRG

MILITARY HSCOTLATIONS HEVE FATEST LAO AND SUTRALIST PACTIONS LATS

AT HARD BE BURN

DETONA BICE

POXPIESSES LET INTEREST TA ARRASGINC A NETIA LITY TARA CHI

PRINCE BOMPRANROUYOSS AND PATER SOUVYANTA PINAS TO ARTS FOR

FULL PATIST LAO PAKTICIPATION IN THE CORBITION COVINNIE.

coup manors.

GOTTA CATERIO ON PLANA BY RIGHT WISE EULITARY SLATE ALTO BITE

THE SARANIKONE CLAN, CONTINUE TO CIRCULATE IN VIENTIANE.

raw to de

---

