# 104-10172-10001

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10001

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992:

16-7

its loral rile No:

olasriburion:, oilash

ду сору во:(111x].(1)

fraisy to:

1o no lads to to babes and one

Source CrIptong: Souncos IdentIfiod

source, Operablara! Dars, and Cannonta:

Heferences:

i peele, lose.

¿ranatorrad lo Partmanhora 18 could couni on tha ild of tha MilLi gotorteas",

And lias JullO 1014L Macoçora, solivo la lio Carliban Loglon, mould revain

In Mox10o dediculing himall to tha purchaso as pald and 1ca clandloations

It' So ponsiblo that tha attachod rapart say lead to confira part of tale

1oraraat1as.

Clasalficardon

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

•8: 01-00

109.4=8.0%1

---

## Page 2

23

Subject: Oold Shipmente

place Acquired:

16-7

Panana (Sty, Parasa

Dase ar information: Haruly I0c0

Dare Acgulraal: Juno July 1950

Frark O40FI, U.S. Cleizen, Pllot,

O. WhaTlicz, VoS. Citizen, Co-pulot

Stere

Mauric1o CASTRO,

0, Pansanian, isssel

05

paro one to than,

AprIl 1950 1n connary. nich a fellaù razed ¿ORILO, no clalied to havo sere

connection with the: Scerot Police, In-taxicoPS Liacil deserihad LURRAY pias an

advonturor to had been la the Pallipires and tha Far East and thon he suspected.

of gold amueliny activities. Cunan said that Lurany was pilot of the plere

and he thought 1t nas unusual that sa fest a plano es this and as exponsivo to

operato was being used then it had cosparatively little cargo space.

In lay

1950, shon HURRY Mas in Panana, be told Limoy that ho was buying orchid bulta.

on 16 june 1950 the Fallouins Information mao receird (pros Cirl Intelligonce

Section, Panana Caral, j rogardiug, this natters

"It-has-boon-roportod-that Very frequenely a B-26 airplene (N5546! - 5 Kartla

Maraudar) nakes trina botreen Tochcal and David, Roto.

It is piloted by

SteTo l'URRAY, and iat least tno other inericans ridaancho plaro, scich toulo

socotices net at Tochen Alrport by eithor Tito, Harrodito or tons arIas.

On lasding at the airport 1t goes diroctly to a hangar, and allogodly the

only ones to visit it ero the iRIs brothero, PASTOR Ponce, Chief of the

airport, and ono (Inu) LIlARES, Chief of Custoes at Tocuen.

IT Mirrorent stated that it nes ballered et first that eto plane nes ensegod

10 arza contraband, but later 16 appodred soro logical to assura that it

Has Irvalved 11 another type as saugeliri, possibly druze.

Virgillo PAVIPEZ, thes Chiof of to Control Tomor, 1s asid to have starod

¿hat the plans ecces and liste mithout talra rujistorod at the airport under

ordere os PogeriAlresttokanager; that the plane lande without olgnalling

81. 8e

---

## Page 3

14-00000

....

ty 5a119 0f talkiri do anyone for fin of dateri!:a al Alirouk FInld, bue

snie for larillrio

drise ihre jaradlo ass aimecent milt che truind vialed rogardira Landira

rudis mi liority bolini riolated, are lial lhora too son voro aflorrardo.!...

if.

Mie siore l: forestion nas allegedly giron to pestiorE ARIAS by cho liniotos

or vire tone ard juilico, ard to apparently chrero lieula intorest in tho

subircs, sorol stating that to raitor shoulo be daresiliated to soo shet

Cero 1s to 16.=

Unna sorrip. or this inforcation it appuared thai Tistillo RiliEz sight have

bees ito sourco, sioco ho was fired fros his posi si jocuren Alrport and vas

lis-led shout it It nas ascertainal that ise information contairod yu

10122210) parata, le wilch faMIREz is sentioned, las reportod by RAlliEZ bul

the scar lifarsation data tras other Giril Intalliesce sources.

05 in the plane ancestored atonte

1. e € dely Er. Lacyodussed that the above-flare ant Stero LURRAY bed so-

turind to Fares bed that to lirister at Goverracis dad ordered that the plane

bie alsacruled and searchod, but he could sot asce-usin the basis for the coarab.

Ibaul tod talked to tho l'anngor os the äirport, 2iícel PASTOR Porce, and with

Tost aiiS, Director Gonoral of Girll deronauties, ani & ropher of Prosident

ArIss, rio talleatod that ticoy toro ataro aí the licistor of Goverteent's order

but did sot knon what was bohind it. Both felt tai it nas an astrodo coasura,

which stoald not do carried out.

SO CA 8 JULY 1950 UT. HURRAY called at the Entassy to obtaln assistance in

securira to releaso

of his plans.

Briarzy ho alriod that ho had dopartod

STas lexico Gily Vla Managua and arrivod at TOCuIea 8i?320 polo 5 Julya Bla

passpart reflectod the followings

fisca? Stoven I. Hurray

Tassport i0.!

Issuida l'anile, Lucosbor 2, 1946.

Rosened: lanlla, Doconter 27, 1918

Expáros: Decoaler 1, 1950

He furaiebod tha followlag additional Informations

Dra of Plans Convurtod B-26

Doso acglotrys N 5546 N

Pilot end Onnors Stevon T. Hurray

Codiots Franà Oorgol, U.So citizon

-Midt Engiroera Cristobal Martinoz, Lodcan c'8150r

¿seniors taurieto Di: CASTiO, Paratantan citista (Douror of off1olà

pastport), pessenior froa l'oxico City to TacuDea

Dastloatlant

Bronavillo, Taxes

Purparo of IT1p8 Bualnosa

У/9n

---

## Page 4

14-00000

He statod that he mas in to export inport busiress sod thai to deali la gald.

Ho said that ho tad cata to tanzes to sadla man dy. Lis razo as Sis, 8 guld

doaler froa Bronos Aires, about dold anipcertao.

C. On 8 July, lisristor as Govertioni Nitrido Maidi reported dio satior to

tho U.Sa A-bassador

statias tat prios to arrivia; la sarasa she alero duel

son sigraled, that all was not well at the airport and sat, the crow had

jettisoned cargo prior to arrival,: (a check vita lio dir Farco authoritios

dous not confirn that ery such messae nus sunt and düuir dondes tat don

thirg as jottisoned. Ho irsistod that ho nas caris to Pasaza to discuss llo

Le cos buenos fue chat ou led to carol a rege de cared to dese dan

that PAstOr fodgo had boon finng as load of the airse inged

05

To: In a conversation with MISTER Posco and LURlY 'as the night al a July (LIsON

was advisod that PISTOR Ponce had, lu Icet, beon find and that ho mas desor

alrod to bunp off fori illli.

BOSh L'UNLY and Mina 1020 claired that TonI

ARIAS Mes benind it all but that Pantal Ponce tie to plaYid

aro bolleved to bo identical.

sis his toon idoriitied as forrariotis, & gold

doalor, uho oporatoo in Buenos jrco ani Mortovides.

civil Intelligence Solo

"ton has-advicod that sis ris stole with forl Alis und thinüs tad doperted.

fron Panana hastily.

Cis-aluo-aivised. wat Presidion: Allis de Sirst-had siron

ordore for the dinalsual of both his noshon, forl Miris, and PistCa Porco, but

1t mus lator agreed that Ton1 ARliS rould not do flnaito arold a publia scandlo

Involving the Prosidont's Lunily.

?.'(Ino present atasus as

tha mattor 1s that the plana bas boon searched with

nogativa resulto,

that the plane 1s still bolri held by to Parasantan authori-

the's and that "URAY and othors are endeavorira by eresy sours possiblo to

socure the release of the plaro. mo huad as the succin dirport, PASTUR Ponce,

as boon darnisted and Tort ARlis, to prostiond'a reden, mill probably l

Lowod to withdren fron his position recefully. "

10

Diatributions

Wash

Lana

(2)

81200

(2)

---

