# 104-10166-10158

## Page 1

4-00000 г

104-10166-10158

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL RESIESED AT CIA HEANQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSISATIONS STAFT SEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUNBER, VOLUME:

DAVIS, THUDAS E,

50-1982

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL. UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

sepune

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

LESHE WIELMAN

JAMES P. KELLy

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Leshi Wagelmass

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

par 29 den 10

SECKET

wea

p.i!

an das

APPROVAL MORE RECORD

BACiO: TY 000ICE 0118 00.

67378

SUALECI IPILL

50-1982

TOLE DASE

DAVIS, TROSAS Do

MANE CHECK A INVESTIGATIVE RECORD

1008112

CHICE

ISSUED

DATE

DalE

PRO 8

Р.О.А

pro is

о.л.

LIST

RACES

OPS

TRACES

DIV

FIELD

TRAGES.

Р. С.

.s.А

-Р.РiА;

pROP..

APP

MMENTS

INDICES

8:0.

ESTIRATION

NE.A

SECRET

1268

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ECRET

follad 108

REQUEST FOR PRESENT DDERATIONAL

STATUS OF SUBJECT

30:8

26 1200 '5s

59 1309

FEDM

SUBJECT:

: chios,

Cl/Operational Approzal asd Support Diriadon

A FarieN of iDa files of CI/QA.18 DoiA8 sado fOr she pUrpOse Of TOEIFlag silos

os COATE parBOnDol who:

4a No longer aro Delag used;

(D) Do nOt aBElaTy. the roquirements sor oporational approval:

(a) Asa of no further intorosE to tha offico of original roqueal.

CI/Ol ragorde indiaaro tha subjest has bean of interest to you

alace

1952

80F: NAPPING WORK

37 6рога: 10081 us0..

Informat1оnel purposes

3.

It is requested that you notify CI/lA of the promont operational status of

subjoot, using the bottom of this for for your coument.

If no answer is received from you within 30 days, CI/DA will assume that you

are no longor interested la the subject and mill retiro the file Mithout further

notification to you.

COMMENTS ERSM OFFICE DE ORIGIN

так но.

700

ADD

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Erstra

allad to

REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIQNAL

STATUS OF SUBJECT

cirod

TO

FROM, : Chies,

CI/Operaz1ona1 Approval and Support Dirision

SUBJECT:

rorion of the files of CI/Al la being nado 805 the purpose Of ro81r1a8 Plles

on cavors porsannal uno:

of No longor aro bejag used;

(0). Do nos Ballasy iho roquiramenta for oporational approval;

(a) Aro of so furrhor intoreat to the offloo of original roquest.

d: CI/lA rocorde indioato tha aubjoct has beon of Intoroat to you

for:

since

→ laformational purposes

It 18 roquestad that you notify CI/DA of tha prosont operational status of

subjoat, uning the bottom of this form for your comment.

If no anonor is recoired. from you mithin 30 days, CI/DA will assume that you

aro no longer interested in the aubject and will retire the f1le mithout further

notifloation to you.

SOMENIS FROM OFFICE OF ORIQU

700

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

(Taco Pallas l0)

REQUEST

FOR PRESENT OPERATIGNAL

STATUS OF SUBJECT

DaTe

06196m 156

5o1787

TO

FROM

i A perions Approral and Supore Divisioa

SUBJECT :

FROMISE NAILS

A sarion of tha files of CI/DA le boing nado for the purpose of rotiriag piles

on corers porsannal who:

(01

No longor are being used;

(D) Do nos satlafy tha requirements for operational approval;

(a) Aro of no furthor intoront to the offico of original request.

CI/A records indioato the subject has been of interest to you

a inco

1952

Sor: Mappena

WORM

(' operational uso

informstional purposes

It l8 roquested that you notily CI/lA of the present oparational atutus of

subjoot, waing the bottom of this for for your comment.

If no arower is received from you within 30 days, CI/DA will assume that you

are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the fllo without further

notifloation to you.

FROM OFFICE OF

send giry to

11l come/ Plan.

SECRET

188)

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECURTY IS ORATOR

SECRET

I. Lo Do

867378

8 FObICATy 1952

Io f1le8 of Ca?, Departant of tha Aray, vere chacked in Subject's rare

on 5. Fabreasy 1952.

and dleclosed the folioning Inforsations

A 1120 In the name of Thomas Edges ___ 128 50r1040

In & lotter to the Comanding General, 2nd Army, Part Goorge G. Mosde, Mary.

land Iron Intolligezca Division, General Staff, U. So Aruy, hashirigton, Do Co,

dated 25 May 1ILô, tbe Investigetions Section states that information bas been

recalved Iron the plans and Operations Division, General Staff, U. So Army,

Maison agelay with the U. S. Atonde Enerpy. Comission, for the Department af thi

Le ARE cloarance umber 1 A 65luo granted "ga clearance on 2 Peberary 19li9.

Ella further reflects tbat the FBI conducted investigations on 18 Januasy

1849 at Cincimatt, 0h10 and 12 Jacuary 1949 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvanta rogard-

ine subjact.

SiErO ONLICE

LEB SO 828 28VH.25

CHICYCO

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECURITY MECASATION

SECRET

CAse NOs 69378

8 ARTLI 1952

STIOPSISS

SUBJECT presentiy resides at 2596 Hell Avenue and not at

1596. He 18 sarrled, has a son, about 25 years of age. SUBJECT

attended Oblo State University Iron 1935 to 1939, recoltag a

BoS.C. degreo. Ho vas formerly enployeí as a garago rechando

In Hilliard, Chio and 18 presently Assistant Director of a fon

search Foundation at the ohio State University, Neighborhood.

Investigation vas axtrenely favorable, nothing of a derogatury

satura vas devalopod. Credit favoriblo and Police negativo.

SUBJECT reportedly investigated by the federal Bureau of ID

rostigatios.

Tata date la proporti di lesotlari and Security Oftoo, to bo so

turned wilen au'stoct in no ionges covertly wer. Is eristence or

contento sual nos bo disclosed aroopt to CLA Stari Osara

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

CRos HOs 67378

8 dp51Z 2952

BIRTH AHC CIALZENSHIPS

At columbus, Oblos

According to the recordo of the Reflatrars offico, Oblo

Stato URIVETSILY, SUBJECT ves boSA in Wallaton, Chlo durag

sinuary 1903.

EDUCATIgHS

18 Columbas, Ondos

me recorde of the Registrare Offico, Oblo Stato Indrerally

en 21 pebruary 1952, revealod that SUBJECT vas & student fron

1935 to 1939, at which tine he gradusted with a B.S.C. degroo.

EXPLOTMENT&

It columbus, Onlos

On 7 February 1952, the recordo of the Chlo Durera of

credits revealad that SUBJECT 18 presently the Assistant Dirdo

tor of the Research foundation of the Oblo State Unlversity. Upon

graduatios fron O.S.U., or shortly thereafter In Deceaber 1939,

SUBJECT was exployed by the university as Assistant Frateruity

Anditor. Ho later noved fros that position to that of Assistant

Diractor In 1946. Prior to the timo, ho was maployad as a nocbi

aDLe In Aros Aldoris Chevrolot Carago, Hillardo, ab10.

1310HBORHOOD$

16 columbas, Oh1os

On 2 April 1952, 1t was deterdned that SUBJECT rooldos In

an apartent building locatod at 2596 Ne1l Anemo, near the undo

raTELty. Mro Meo CHEN, Apto ME: 2596 No11 Avenue, stetod that

she has known the SUBJECT and his vila sinoo tha tiao of tha1s

zoring in the building, wnich was about three years ago. sie

deboribed then as Froti cubatarial people" and sided that sua

JECT in the Assistant Director of the hasnarch Foundatica, blo

Stato University. Ho 1s most capable, likeable and rencestable

san and enjoyo a fine reputation in the bullding and 1n the

neighborhood generally, She further atited that the Fel had for

vetigated hia sevorel yeare ago, apparently in conneesion dia

• A1o Job at the Foundation, She detoribed SUBJECT and to vile to

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

Casa Has 67378

8 Ap51] 1952

"apper aidalo elassi vict one son, about rvelly-fIve yoars of ago

uno 1s sartled and resides out of ahlo, although ho la precantly

alaylag vich lla folka because hia ulse 1s 1n a hospital in

Colurbus with their sonly arrivod baby. Inforaant slatod that she

on sorties but fool tellite to SUbJECT and his feally and

that De la truly a patriotle drarices.

On 2 April 1952, MES ThORAs REDDER, Apt. 95º, 2506 H011

drence, stated tbat sbe has nowa SUBJECT end his vilo as seigh-

bors and that chey are fine peiple, respected in the community

and are conservative in their 11 v118 and bubita.. They bavo one

80D, Ed, who Is preendy sulyles mila Lad. subulli, according.

to Informant, 1s "honey" and does not drink of have any bad

labits to her knowledge. She considore hin a one-hungred per

cent Anerican.

On 2 AprL 1952, MIS. P.W. HOMSHER, Apto "Co, 2590 Holl

Arous, stated that abe has been acquelated with the SUBJECI and

11o visa sor about a joar as nelghbors. She knew littlo about.

shas except that: they are nice people and vell thought of In

the neighborhood, They are quiot, do not enfage in sany social

activities. Infomant confired SUBJSCI's esployment and added

that she knes of nothing of a derezatary sature regarding the

SUBAICT or bla familyo

Ara Sohn R. SHOWBALL, Apt. "A", 2596 N01l Avenue, stated that

sho has known SUBJECT and his adle just three yours or since the

time they noved into the bullding, three joars ago this nonth.

she statad that she Ilked than very nuch and know of no finer

people. They are respected in the coamnity and are quiet and con

survative. SUBJECI neither drinka or carouses and 1a a "hotuody",

except that he plays a great deal of galf with her husband. In

formant stated that SUBJECT's son Ed 18 pmaently with SUBJECT

soning hore fras west virginia for the arrival of their newborn

Joungster. She added that SUBJET bas a fine polation vith the

Bonnarch Foundetion 8s Assistant Direator, and 18 a thorough.

Anarican.

REFERENCES:

s8 Colundus, Ohios.

On 3 AprIl 1952, MYS FATAY BROWER, 2263 swlt Street,

stated that she purchased the prodians on which she now resides,

Iron SUBJECT about twelve grare ago and although she did not know

the mano fanily except fos the real-estate trananation, she had

hoard sent good things ebout then iron noishbors that used to 11to

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

саво хот 67378

8 1pr11 1952

Lo chls part of the consully, She scared tsas everyono recrod

to bare a good von for both SUBElEt and his vile and abo knin

of sochina derogarosy la tra regard. she added tbar tos john

MONROS, 2262 SUNLE SETORE, LAMA LDe SUBJECT and bla Viroo

On 3 AprIl 1952, MrS John MONROB, vas Interviewed and stated

that she bad known the SUBJeCt'a Mila since they vero younstere

J1ting in Hilllard, ahlo and that she has known SUBJECT slaco bo

and his wife sarrlod nearly thirty years ago. Tha ---'8 vero

•wonderful people and well thought of by everyone, SUBTECT KAS fOr

sarly amployed by Arch Alder's Chevrolor Gagago 1n Hilliard, oblo

aftor which ha roturned to Ohlo Stato University. Ho vas later em

ployed by 0.S.U. In sond espetity, beconing Assiorant Director of

tha Rassarch Poundation. Informant suggested another pereon that

tas dequainted with the case.'8, MTS HATTy HYERS, 6500 Lublin

Rued, north of Columbus, 0s10.

0 3 Арт11 1952, Hre HArTy HIERS, Was latorvlowed and stited

that she had known the -'s and that they were very close.

sslands. She know of nothing derogatory regarding SUBJECT and

statod that she considered the son. landly as the highest typo

Os people, SUBJECT'A BOs, Ed, 18 engaged 11 sone type of Engin

Wring work, bolloved to be in Detrolt, Michigan

It van deteradned that Arch Adler, SUBJECT's fOrDer esployer.

and personally nom to the uriter, 18 presently confined to a

hospital and not. avallablo for interviono

FORMAN APIENTROUT, MADAgOS, Alder's GATegO, Hilllard, Oblo

stated that SUBJECT res the best nachanic they had ever had 1n

the garage. Informant stated that he has heard Mr. Adlor sake

this statemant many times since SUBJECT left in 1937. He further

stated that SUBJECT and his wifo had a fine reputation and vare

patriotio Americans. Inforkant had attended high sejool with

SUBJECT' & son Ed, uhon ho deseribed as a first rato fallou, uno

displayed that he pana fross good peoplo..

CREDIT AND CREDIT REPERENCES.

1E Columbro, 0h10

sue rosorde or the ando Credit Bureau, 83S. Lith Street,

exandoad on 7 Fabruary 1952, rarealed that SUBJECT artled Halor

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

CaRa tOs 07308

SECRET

8 April 1752

Bo La HILlleNtO, OA101 EbAS DE bAO VOTKed LOS ALdar à GeraRO Lei

#illarda antil about 19211 chas to ini jeon surt end callacred

a chala sroa ue ondo Industrial Coaission; furthos UsAs Do vass

lo Unto Stato Valveralty dod graduarad vila a B.S.C. dossos la

1939 and lhes vens os the payroll of O.S.U. la laceaber 1919.

ProsoDiLy AONIaLaDE EirAcIoS. Of Uho.0.S.U. Fesastel pousdaltos,

ADO PrIOS LO BATO NAS ARDIALATE PrACOTAITY AUdiEDT, fUrESAS, La

1940 he had Maenced an autonobile Ubrouga Geraral Mataro nea a

norizazo al 9249.00 unica 10 prompes Uhas la crodle rablos la

fuos, sotalay egalnot bla and nost purchanos ano sor caes.

POLICE (CRIMINAL AND SUBYERSTVS). RECOPISS

16 colonbua, calos

no rooords of the Caldabas Polico Dopertaeas, on ? Pobrea

9S8, fallod lo raroal any InfOrAtIon on SUBJECT. Tho fIlos o

Do Oblo Umanartons Activittos Carlastos vero arraisod os de

Ap51l 1958 and falled tO TATRAL ANY INSOMAStIOS Os SUBJECT.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

23 ATH 150

SECRET

¡artor teres sea or anil presen

8 Chias, Special Secarity Darlolos

SUBIBES 8 PR 2359

867378

RoPerADCa 1a sado to yoUr roquest dalad 81 DecenDar 1951

{05

@ reconsondat lon as to unathar an Operational Clarranco arould do granted

¿o parale tha subjoot ' noo as soror da Deropo sudas corar as aroma st o

The attachod Information rararding the gubjoot 1o suraletod to

os as an ald In dolominins whether or sot the subjact should be used undo

is authority al an aporationa maranco la la capeally set sorth do you

request.

Thia senorenden portaina ahly to tha sualarment manilonad in

рагадтара I аота.

It la roquested that this offlon bo Informed of your

doolsion as to uhothor you intond to usa tha subjecto It the subject lo

not used, the attachod materiel should be returnad to the vriter 1n a

Boslod envelope marked "Dyes Only," Indicating the roasons for not using

the subjecto

FOR THE SECURITI OFFICES, GIA.

Atraozentas

100 2/19152

307, 5pt. 3/8/52

HoBo Data

ROBILT H. СТАТИКАН

BEORET

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-10000

8)8

AE208

ГВ Н18

Snestal sae yily D!rla10a

!. Claye.on

STE SEE. THO

SIEJ50T8 P202399

?..

The palleulne Mlo,rant 119l dala do analdeblo on Sutf-eto

259n 10!1 Arenas

Calumbria, unto

dotine Head of Pasenreh, Ihlo sinto Untuarally

BSO 1a Bualsass AdrInfalT 8lon 1999 Onto B'a'0 U.

89393922 Analatzat Auditor, Dean's OfF10e

Binon 1942 has boon Asslatant to Diraotos

Raconsch foundation.

'Date of Birth ill be forun dod na soon as snoalrod.

SECRET

........

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

SFCRET

COVERT NAME CHECK REPORT

DAIB: 19 766r71857 1952

SUBJECT: So BaD. 67373 O6 060

In accordance with your roqueas, a cerers sons eback

vas conducted os subjoet uita senulia as ladlearad bolors

AGEXY,

BETUR

DATE

-216

Passport)

-222

202

10/12/50 - Intestigation reveled nothing derogatory regardlog

Babject's character, raputation, employment, naighborkood, and

associatos.

Ella dota li propanty al laspection and Securtly Ofloe, to bai so

farned whon outlert la so longer covertly urost lla existance or

istanta muel sol bo disclorad axoopt to CIA Stall Ottloak

000 10: 28-48

SÉCRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

PZ-23575

1987

FBI-CPEHA- a150 Ustuy Deig

0.1- NR

ONT- NP

157e6.52.

Talkel o

on

Cele, ter

: caleosbae

Called

clu

r. tom

Well ton, plud;.

Q clear.

xy6si4

Feb4a.

---

## Page 16

14-00000

O. Fe Spectal Sectty 91010100

F8'H8

8тC SТB

SURZET: P22359

Tho

folleule Marraphical arte la nnellablo on Sulf-obs

Lotise Hend of Ronenrah, Osito Sente Untentalty

sensarch Foudat los

830 1n DualDors AdmIntotint 10a 1999 Onlo 81r40 0.

1999-1912 leslotnat Aoditos, Doar's OfT100

81a0n 1912 bas been Asuistait to IIroctor

Bosonsch Foundation.

"Dato of Birer vIll De Sortandod as 8003 de rocastal.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Ostrelitir

Brand i i But it petame.

Thomas EdgaDare

1596 nel Querie

Columbus, Olio

Act stead of Pessarch

050 Researchi

Foundali

BSC - BusAdm 193%

-Chuo Stat Ui

1939-1942

tar been ant G Direcla

Reseaich Feudalect 9942

---

## Page 18

14-00000

TO

FRO!'

SUBWECT&

SECRET

• Chiet, Special Security Division

Clayton

Date 31 Dossubes 1957

_P.2. # 2357

B3-7121D

ho DÜDLINES

(1)

(2)

_(3) -

_(4).

_(5)_

Bo CilIRiCTER OF CiSE: (1)0.C. ≤ (2)P.D.C. & (3)C..G._(4)C•S•G•_(5)₽•_

Go CLiSSIFICATICis igent Clericai Survice. Other doves

Do 1118 Surope gliddle cast Far Fast_Latin inerica_ Specific

Bo SUBUÜTT'S COVER: U.S. Gort:_

_Fore Gorto_

Acadenic

Carrarcial_ Relirious

Professional_ Pres. Empl. I

undesignated_

Other

Po ACTIONs Investigation, including covert name chacks. 3

Covart name checks only

Development of biographic data

Reply as soon as possible re lis check_ FBI check_ Other

Special nane checks_

SUGGESTED COVER FOR INVESTIGITIONE

General U.S. Governnent inturest

Non-government, commercial Interest &

Spocial_

The chief of the intorested Division has cortifiod that 0S0 operational

files and documento contain no informtion of investigative or socurity

Interest In addition to that set forth 1n PRA I and II. (Raviower uy)'=

Ploase roturn attached PRQ Part I

Blog. Dat

of your sction.

00 san snared a salono for sabjeet io una ly tha Diviason.

**Per salaphone convarsation Mainhey/flayan 29 Dao 51.

---

## Page 19

14-00000

Чот.

Plea made paper changes

i replace Ourero isit, Dovis in

the action became Oratin requed

the portin and Sai has ten lis

sace. I have orally done thes coit,

R. Charter 10S: 29 Dee 51. 0H6 pap

coal be sterned t O down opian Staff

Ти чі

---

## Page 20

14-00019

SECRET

subair incorantes

+3-1124 (0880772)

PXJO818T

21 Bacenbes 1958

CHORAIDEN TORI CA108, 8TC/BP3.

MONs

Calor, PLATA

MаДо8.8оР ФрАГАВІОНА! СтолтаДоВ од гаДВ з. ОнеМ

1500808, Objo BRato UAlvaralty Rasoaral Joandass

во свояго ргот181ока! орегав 10091

возові то гасатьса! сіалтапео. !

Ly 00 so dorarasos 18 La vOalA Do villlRE do prepara a lastos fron lLa

Toradaslos to 129

Anas10a8-50andasaT2as Poradallos in sou Tork.

marans ol thla lastas voula introduca and spornos 11nanasal17 de

al hon el te ramal do cond to era of tho estar las de ta

apeato 08 la Anastora-sesadaserins Torrida 81on.

5a. paza and ble asstorande

Thomo 8. Darlo ready por

ansssos. Ol projons bolne carpied out by sha Hopples and Chartis

28077.08 sbo poaslardos.

iDa 0.8.0. Rasearaa PoaRdallas bas l

alo malasalltad progres, boustor, and 118 connäction vill

BIA

Ido nos pabiloly tanra.: I8 1a asderasood that tr. Barrio Lyono.

Me. DaTiO.

119"

santo. as

198838.

G01 MILIBASTIEGOS

SECRET

---

## Page 21

14-00000

JEFICE MESSAGE

ANZ PEESOS COLLARS

• PERSON

TELLHOM

DISRECKED

Pleasike

rift u

рос.

we where

telephael

The to

Of one

- ра

N59918: 36-9

Дл

• Осен

con EF-742-AB

HCUA

esc

FBI - NCI

neg

Did E

neit

71 1987

MAR

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SECRET

ROLTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations shouid do used is ibe -TO": siumn. Under each comment a line shouid be dramn across sheer

a'" each comment numbe:ed lo correspond m in lne natiber in the "TO" column.

beis: further routing.

Each officer should initial (check mark insutficient)

This Rowling and Record Sheet anould be relurned to Registry.

FROM:

на

ОАТІ

Chlor, PLARS

ROOM

на

DATE

OFFLERS

INMALS

21 Doe 1951

ONMENTS

STC/SPB

RIED

Entered 26 Da 51

DY MANO ONLY

dake stick

use ma To

FREM.NO. 81-10

SECRET

cite

---

## Page 23

4-00000

SECRET

SEcURITY INFORMATIOS

03-1124 (08b05a)

FTLOTILY

21 Decosbor 1951

MZNORANDUH TOR:

Chlo?, SIC/SPB

SUBJECS:

Request 80T OparatIOnAl CleRTaNCe on JARDs So OveRs,

DIToctOr, Oblo State Ualtersity BornaTch Foundation

1. Vith soferenco to the contersation betroon le. Enariao an

KS. Osbora on 20 Doceaber 1951, 1t 18 recastad that action do tabos

SO BOCUSO prOTISIOnal operational cloArAnco on DI. Jamas 8. Onazo,

DIToetor, Oblo State UnITOrally Rosearch Ponadatios.

20

sabioet to saccorafal albaranco, It 18 plasned to baTo e

ropresentativo of FIN contact DI. Ovens through as appolattent arrangel

Dy 00 to dotermine 11 ha nsald bo u1111a8 to proparo a lottos fros the

Poradation to tha ADorican-Sensdanatias Joandatioa. Is Fov. Torko. Tho

content of this lottor vould introdace and sponsor sleanesally on

Most than ful bas arranged to sund to ona of tha Scandararias courselai

nados sponsorahip of the AnastoRa-Scandasarian Foundation.

3. DI. Orens and ble assintant, Thores I. DeT!A, alroady portere

a OIl alaarance up to and inclading "sacrota la consaction vith a

@la1a181od CIl projoot boing carried out by the Happing and Chartine

Laboratosy of the Foundatios: Iha:O.SiU. Baspared Fourdation bas a

Considorablo anelaas1f10d progras, hoMetos, and 180 cOmecEion vita

BIL in not pablloly krons. It 18 andorstood tbat Mr. BasTIa Lyone,

1A88, has all tha datalla concernine the alessancos on II. Ovens and

IN 10 OstrODOly asslons to coplare thess astargoseats, and

18 ronla do appraciated 11 you voald treat thia raguast se a priority

SECRET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SICILI

Opirat lonal ilearires anti: Shout

SPR FIli 10. 1Q82-

Nano E Ha

(check;

(dato)

Division Iracis

Ol Files

Orcin List

Staff C

Local Field Tracce

Othor Field Traces

Ides Indicus

IeS. Covürt Raport

I&s Investigation

Dreg data

Project

Ruvimed

EFFIS JANDY

sat EFB, 261A195%c. 1163

Operational Cloarnes 236 YAY 71952

Operation Reviewed

S411580N52

PRQ II

po

---

