# 124-10204-10213

## Page 1

Date :

Page

10/21/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

• RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10213

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-2781-1144

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, NO

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE

11/25/66

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

: LST, TRA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 10/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President

John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Actof 1992

NW 78318

Docld:34489581 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rey;

5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI

(92-2781)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

(92-74)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

11/25/66

REC-163

Re Tampa airtel to Bureau 11/4/66.

SNO 1457-C-TE advised SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.,

on 11/23/66 that it was sometime in early June, 1966, that

CARLOS MARCELLO and JOSEPH MARCELLO, together with their

al A

visited TRAFFICANTE in Florida.

Informant stated

Informant stated that ALICE LAZZARO was born and raised in

Cuba.

LIN CuBA

Informant stated that PRIMO LAZZARO owns some

type of restaurant or nightclub in Tampa and for the past

five to six months, has been commuting frequently between

New Orleans and Tampa, acting as the middle-man between

TRAFFICANTE and MARCELLO. Informant stated that PRIMO and

ALICE LAZZARO have often

socially visited Mr. and Mrs.

JOSEPH MARCELLO.

The LAZZAROs met the MARCELLOs at the Tampa

airport and took them to TRAFFICANTE'S Tampa home where they

stayed overnight. Early the next morning, the LAZZAROs

drove the MARCELLOS to TRAFFICANTE's beach house at

2-2781-1144

2

2

- Bureau

- Tampa

- Miami

- New Orleans

204 092-1) -

(92-2787 REC-63

(92-88)

EX. 108

5 NOV 28 1966

iSam Flye

DEO 191966

330

Approved:

Sent

_M

•Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318

Docld:34489581 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-74

St. Petersburg, Florida. CARLOS MARCELLO and his spouse

stayed at the beach house with SANTO TRAFFICANTE and the

LAZZAROS. JOSEPH MARCELLO and his wife stayed at a nearby

motel. Informant does not know the address of this beach

house.

Regarding TRAFFICANTE's 7/4/66 visit to New Orleans,

informant knows that TRAFFICANTE was at the Churchhill Farms

estate of CARLOS MARCELLO during the early afternoon of

7/4/66.

Informant does not know exactly when TRAFFICANtE

arrived, but felt he had stayed overnight at Churchhill Farms.

Juring the early morning of 7/6/66, CARLOS MARCELLO anC

JOSEPH MARCELLO, together with their spouses and TRAFFICANTE,

drove across Lake Pontchartrain to the home CARLOS MARCELLO

rents

in Covington, La., and spent the better part of the day

there.

CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO and SANTO TRAFFICANTE left

that home during the early evening hours of 7/6/66; however,

informant does not know where they proceeded from there.

Informant next saw CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO during the

evening of 7/7/66.

2%

NW 78318

Docld:34489581 Page 3

---

