# 124-90137-10355

## Page 1

124-90137-10355

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90137-10355

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

CIA

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 08/28/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

(Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

V9.1

NIH 50953 DocId: 32337589

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Liaison Section

Mr. Donanoe

Mr.

Little

Mi. Meier

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

*Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

*. Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel

T'rotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

REC 9 505-24642-4I(3)

54113

BY

Date:

From:

Subject:

- COPIES MACE, DATE.

RE

FOR REVIEW AT FOING AN0/OR DELIVERY

August 28, 1961

TO HSCA RE REQUEST GATED

Director

(SEE BURLE 62-117290Y u

Central

intelligence Agency

58685/0/GCL

(FR)

Actention: Deputy Direstor,

Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

EDUARDO ESPINOSA Y PRIETO

INTERRAL, SECURITY • A = MEXICO

1-11-94

Classies My 9302 200/e

Declassify eno

CADR

o1520

s)

ALI. TNFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCCACSIRLED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE®

Reference is made to sour

Letter

19042 YOuR Teterence CSCI-3/760,810

dated August 21,

Easier a this treas

file on subject fails to

reves, thatche wrote bank drafts to

active communist vorkers

wath he possible exception of miche herine Fuentes wit

rosal, to ster

the ony asseration shat she was an active

1941 y

reliability vas

communist worker was made in february states mbassy in

by & person

whose

to the United

Mexico City,

investigation failed to subssantiate

allegation and you

were so

advised by letter under above

coption

tated septenbar

24, 19890

rurchemore, at the time

subject's bank draft to her was

• written

ta curuary 10,

subject

and flerino

neates were bou connected witn

Mission

vae uniten Nacions., a fact which

intelligence significance of

this payaento &

nosed on intormation in the Lates or this Bureen

appears

inadvisable to

include

10 YOUr

the sundesaat

• Vertassungsschute

(BIV),

seraany

that subject vrose

aCtive

communist workers or

suggest

of financing Commnist Party

activities

1700

SEE NOTE

PAG

2

BY COURIER SVC.

46 AUG 2 9

COMM- ER, i:

li on at

CIA HAS NO 861

ECTUON TO

i AND/ON,

5668 SID/SK

5

MAIL ROOM

RACHEL

0, 6

DECLASSIFY CN: 25X

SECKET

(JFK

NW 50953

DooId: 32337589

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Director

central Intelligence Agency

(u)

This letter is classified

because it

contains information so classified by

seeks

to pass

of information concerning

che biv in vernany and mas

the following in thi

Surina

requested permission to

files: fa

I stating it comes iron

Sur

"During his New York City tenure, he was known to

write bank drafts to persons

known to be active Communist

workers.

It was suggested that he was

used as a means of

financing Commist farty activities. "o

ciA stated above conclusion "was

apparently

based on

numerous Burean reports written during 1957 and 1950. CIA

revers specifically to only one bank arart, it naving been

written by subject o Alicia Merino ruentes and states that our

report dated 10/12/S6 contained inforation that she as

This report was in the case on Merino Fuentes 5)

and the only allegation

that she was

an active connunist was the

I941 allegation made to the Embassy in Mexico.

Burau has

developed no information indicating payees of

written by subject had subversive associations or sympathies.

SECRET

NN 50953

DooId: 32337589

Page

---

