# 124-10203-10246

## Page 1

Date

Page

06/30/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10203-10246

RECORDS

SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CR 92-3171-442

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TItLE :

DATE

: 10/05/61

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS

: SGI, ASSOC, CONFERENCE,

RFK SPEAKING BEFORE GROUP

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 2, 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/29/95

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC NOTE

2025 Release under the President John F. Kennedy

nassination Records Collection Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 1

---

## Page 2

"SPÊCIAL INVESTIGATIV DIVISION

10'

5...

Summary

Giancana, a Chicago mobster and

target for early prosecution, is devising

plans to remove pressure for hoodlum

element. The hoodlum element in Chicago

making plans to have the AG "toned" down

during his appearance before Italian group

during Columbus Day proceedings in

Chicago on October 12, 1961.

Information

obtained from our technical coverage.

Giancana also issued instruction to have

Ravens elemant taken for a ride. Q

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 2

---

## Page 3

955-033-96246

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

DATE 4-20 - 84 BY SPERSoL

---

## Page 4

A-14 (REv. -2-61,8

DECODED COPY

Radio

xx Teletype

Vipert a

Callahan

Conrad

Evans

-Malone

CROS

HES ORG

Tavel

Trotter .

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

News A, 4.

URGENT

10-5-61

11:26 PM SM

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC SAN FRANCISCO

FROM SAC CHICAGO

060234

ARENT SUMMARY. CG 6456-0# ADVISED LAST NIGHT OF

DIRECTOR COURTNEY EVANS. SAMUEL M. GLANCANA*

LENGTHEY CONFERENCES BETWEEN GIANCANA AND VARIOUS HOODLUMS.

AMONG THOSE ATTENDING AS BEING IDENTIFIED WERE DOMINIC BLASI

AND ROSS PRIO. PRIO WAS CONCERNED OVER THE FACT THAT ATTORNEY

GENERAL KENNEDY IS MAKING AN APPEARANCE IN CHICAGO BEFORE AN

VITALIAN AMERICAN GROUP DURING COLUMBUS DAY PROCEEDINGS HERE.

HE FELT THAT ONE ANUNZIO, HEAD OF THIS GROUP, SHOULD BE TOLD

TO TONE DOWN ON KENNEDY, THAT THIS WAS AN OBVIOUS ATTEMPT,

ACCORDING TO PRIO, OF KENNEDY TO CONVINCE THE ITALIAN PEOPLE

HERE THAT HE IS FRIENDLY TO THIS ETHNIC GROUP. PRIO ADVISED

GIANCANA THAT HE IS CONNECTED WITH AN OFFICIAL OF A NEW MAGAZINE

IN CHICAGO BELIEVED TO BE NAMED SHOW BUSINESS ILLUSTRATED,

AND THAT THIS OFFICIAL IS WILLING TO EDITORIALIZÉ THE NAGAZINE

AGAINST ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFNE SUS ESTATING LINES 63 AN AYA

AGAINST THE HOODLUM ELEMENT. ONE SUGGESTIOA

WAS TO HAVE THIS INDIVIDUAL COMMENT ON THE

-HAT KEANEDYES

SPENDING ALL HIS TIME INVESTIGATING BOOKMAKERS AND NOT

ATTENTION TO THOSE WHO ARE ATTEMPTING TO OVERTHROW ARE LOVERN-

MENT, NAMELY, THE COMMUNISTS.

TWO UNKNOWN PERSONS SPOKE WIIF

GIANCANA AND ADVISED THAT THEYSHAD IDENTIFIED TWO INFORMANTS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1: 20-84 BYSPSRJG

CAC

REG /

EX-103

- it.. -

MR. BELMONT FOR THE-DIRECTOR

SENT DIRECTOR

9

10 - 6-66

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 4

---

## Page 5

"5-2-61)

DECODED COPY

• Radio

« Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

PAGE TWO FROM SAC CHICAGO 060234

UTILIZED BY THE STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE, COOK COUNTY, IN

MAKING GAMBLING RAIDS. AFTER OUTLINING TO GIANCANA THE REASONS

FOR SUSPECTING ONE INFORMANT, GIANCANA GAVE INSTRUCTIONS TO

"PUT HIM IN A STEAM BOX, TAKE HIM FOR A RIDE, HIT HIM IN THE

HEAD AND THROW HIM IN THE (UNKNOWN)." POSSIBILITY EXISTS

THIS INFORMANT MAY BE IDENTICAL TO CG 6093-C. THIS INFORMANT

POSSIBLY HAS BEEN FURNISHING INFORMATION DIRECTLY TO THE STATES

ATTORNEYS OFFICE RELATING TO GAMBLING ACTIVITIES. IT IS NOTED

THAT THE INFORMANT HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH THE STATES ATTORNEYS

POLICE CONCERNING HIS RECENT CONVICTION IN COOK COUNTY FOR

INTIMIDATION OF A WITNESS. THE INFORMANT POSSIBLY WAS CONTACTED

BY THE STATES ATTORNEYS POLICE AND VOLUNTEERED TO ASSIST THE

STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE IN RETURN FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE

THEN PENDING CASE IN COURT. IN ORDER TO PROTECT SOURCE IT IS

NOT DEEMED ADVISABLE TO DISCUSS THESE POSSIBILITIES WITH IN-

FORMANT. CG 6093-0 BEING ALERTED BY CONTACTING AGENT TO BE

EXTREMELY CAUTIOUS AND ALERT IN ALL HIS FUTURE ACTIVITIES.

THIS ALERT WILL BE GIVEN HIM IN SUCH A WAY SO THAT THE SOURCE

IS COMPLETELY PROTECTED. CHICAGO CONSIDERS IT INADVISABLE

A FUR OFF AT ONE OF THE FACT THAT ORGAN

LAST NIGHT THAT THEY HAD SOMEONE IN THE STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICER

ON THEIR PAYROLL AND THAT HE WAS FURNISHING THEM INFORMATION

CONCERNING ACTIVITIES IN STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE. ROSS SPENCER,

FORMER AGENT AND CHIEF INVESTIGATOR AT STATES ATTORNEYS OFFICE

IS PRESENTLY OUT OF THE COUNTRY ATTENDING IACP CONVENTION.

EVEN IF INFORMATION EVENTUALLY GIVEN TO SPENCER, THIS OFFICE

HAS NO CONTROL OVER THE DISSEMINATION WHICH SPENCER MIGHT

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4-51 (Rev. 0-2-63)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

DeLoach -

Malone -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

• Radio

xx Teletype

PAGE THREE FROM SAC CHICAGO 060234

MAKE OF INFORMATION, THEREBY JEOPARDIZING SOURCE. FULL

CONTEXT OF THESE TWO CONVERSATIONS CONTAINED IN DAILY

AIRTEL SUMMARY THIS DATE UNDER CAPTION ACTIVITIES OF TOP

HOODLUMS, CHICAGO DIVISION. UARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

12:43 AM

LAM

i.:

[SC: MR. EVANS

parte intelligence do prod in the above message is po be diseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suicably

NW 78318 Docld:34489314 Page 6

---

