# 124-10186-10054_multirif

## Page 1

File #:

62-410-116395

Serial Scope:

1St NR 1203X, 1204x 15+ NR /204X1206-1210X,

1212, 1214X, 1214x1, 1215, 1215x

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

B8514 Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88614-Đocid:32989602-Page-1

---

## Page 2

'O

:

FROM

:

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSE EPAIR 111 CFR 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. J. B. Adams

Legal Counsely!

SENSTUDY. 75

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm. -

I - Mr. Mintz - Encs. (2)

Dop. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

1 - Mr.

Adams - Encs. (2)

Admin. -

1 - Mr. Bassett - Encs. (2.) Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs _

DATE: 12/5/75

Files & Com..

Gan. Inv. -

1 - Mr. Wannall - Encs. (2) Ident.

1 - Mr. Cregar - Encs. (2) MA

- Mr. Hotis - Encs. (2)

Laborato

1 - Mr. Daly - Encs.

(2.).

Logal Cos

MDR-16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Plon. & Eval.

Spec. Inv..

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 103100. BYSTALMED

Training -

Telophone Rm. -

Diroctor Sec'y -

On 12/4/75, a meeting was held with the

following

representatives of captioned Committee: Chief Counsel E.A.O.

Schwartz; Assistant Counsel Paul Michel; Staff Member Mark

Gitenstein; Staff Director of the Domestic Task Force John I.

Elliff; and Staff Member John Bayley•

Representing the Bureau

at this meeting were Deputy. Associate Director James. B. Adams,

Assistant Director John A. Mintz, Inspector John B. Hotis, and

SA Paul V. Daly.

The meeting discussed the forthcoming testimony on

12/9/75 of the Director before that Committee and Elliff fur-l

nished the Bureau two draft papers discussing. the Bureau's

investigative jurisdiction and issues the Committee Staff feels

the Senate Select Committee must address from a legislative

standpoint. Copies of these papers are attached.

The first paper which consists of six pages discusses

in Part 1 what the Committee sees as problems arising out of

the FBI's domestic intelligence investigations.

highlights the fact that these investigations may be overbroad

in scope, collect irrelevant information, and continue the in-

vestigations beyond what the Committee sees as their normal

This portion also addresses the

investigative techniques used during these investigations and

the resultant dissemination of information collected.

Under Part 2, the document discusses options available

to the Committee.

These options run the gamut from abolition

of the Bureau's domestic intelligence functions to administrative

oversight by the Attorney General or Congressional oversight or

enacting legislation providing for domestic intelligence investi-

gations with legislative limits imposed on such investigations.

Included is the consideration of creating an independent

Inspector General.

RLC-51

Enclosures

(20)

7 JAN 22 1976

CONTINUED - OVER

5-

PVD : lad li)

(9.)

2 6 1976

NW 88614-ocld:32989602 Bage Z.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 3

Legal Counsel to. Mr. Adams

RE:

SENSTUDY, 75

The second position paper which was prepared by

John I. Ellift begins by a six-page statement and analysis

of the Bureau's current authority to conduct domestic in-

telligence investigations.

He then lists four options for

the Committee.

Option 1 is for Congress: to pass legislation ratifying

the existing FBI authority as set forth by Presidential directives

and Executive Orders.

Option 2 suggests. Congress might give serious con-

Sideration to creating a separate Security Intelligence Agency

within the Department of Justice.

In this Option, Elliff sug-

gests: that the FBI itself has considered

this Option as part of

the larger question of separating all FBI intelligence functions

from law enforcement functions of the Bureau.

Option 3. considers the elimination of FBI domestic

intelligence. In his analysis of this position, it might be

possible for the Bureau to develop the necessary intelligence

information through its normal criminal investigations

thus remove the necessity for domestic intelligence investi-

Option: 4 considers setting standards for domestic

intelligence investigations.

In this. Option, Elliff states

that the FBI should' be authorized by statute

to. conduct domestic

intelligence investigations only as Congress finds. that regular

criminal' investigations would not provide information to an-

ticipate or prevent the use of violence in violations of Federal

law and that incidents of the use of violence in such violations

of a

serious nature and threaten the

security of the country.

For purposes of the Director's appearance on 12/9/75

before the Senate Select Committee, it is believed his response

to questions concerning the aforementioned position papers shoulo

be that the Bureau has received copies and is reviewing the various

proposals and that it would not be appropriate at this time for

the Director to comment regarding the substance of the proposals.

CONTINUED - OVER

- 2.-

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams

RE:

SENSTUDY.

75

Elliff indicated during this meeting that the Director

during his appearance may anticipate being asked a question by

one of the Senators relating to his statement before the American

Bar Association in

Montreal concerning the necessity for the

sacrifice of certain individual rights at the expense of investi-

gations. He also anticipated the Director might be asked a

question concerning. his position on COINTELPRO. Regarding

the question concerning the Director's statement before the

American Bar Association in Montreal, the Legal Counsel Divi-

sion will draft a proposed resonse.

Concerning COINTELPRO, a

response has been prepared and will be put together with the

briefing material for the Director.

This memorandum in general highlights the Options

presented in the attached papers. A more detailed analysis

should be prepared by the Intelligence Division and existing

documents addressing these proposals should be made available

for the Director's briefing book for his testimony.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

That the Director respond to questions concerning

the attached position papers as set forth above.

Done.

(2.)

That the Legal Counsel Division draft a proposed

response concerning. the Director's statement made in Montreal

relating to the sacrifice of certain individual rights.

Done.

Gitate

That the Intelligence Division make a detailed

review of the various options set forth in the two attached,

19/

fet!

1/2/12/75

2o

- 3 -

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Issues

and Options for Discussion with

Former Attorneys General Rogers, Katzenbach, and Clark

MDR-16.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNPLASSINICI

DATE 10/31/00 BY SPRALMIS

I. Background

In the past few weeks the staff has presented the Committee

with evidence suggesting the following about the FBI's

internal security intelligence program:

A.

The program is massive, involving the collection of

information on the activities of thousands of innocent,

law-abiding American citizens.

B. These individuals were not alleged espionage agents, but

citizens who fall

within the FBI's vague definitions of

"subversion" and "extremism" -- purely homegrown "threats

to the national security".

c. :

That FBI policy on "subversive" and "extremist" inves-

tigations was vague and subject to the following abuses:

1. overbreadth in scope in that groups were investigated

whose threats to the national security were tenuous,

if not non-existent.

2.

collection of information on the personal life and

political views of subjects unrelated to the national

security.

3.

the continuance of investigations well after it

should have become obvious that there was no legiti-

mate predicate.

D.

Particularly invasive collection technigues were used,

including electronic surveillance, mail opening, and

sur-

reptitious entries. Although these have been terminated,

the predominant and perhaps most insidious continues

today through the FBI's huge informant/confidential source

network.

E. Information collected in the course of these investiga-

tions is disseminated regularly throughout the federal

government and to local law enforcement.

F.

Until 1971, information collected through these investi-

gations was

disseminated as part of the COINTELPRO prO-

gram to the subjects' friends, relatives, employers, and

others in an effort to discredit or "neutralize" alleged

"subversives" or "extremists".

63-116393-

-1215X

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 5

ENGLOSURE

---

## Page 6

- 2 -

G.

The FBI's internal security intelligence program was

used by Presidents from Franklin Roosevelt to Richard

Nixon to serve their political interests, usually by

collecting information on

critios or political

opponents.

н.

The program was conceived and implemented in secrecy,

and although parts of the program were shared with out-

side authorities from time to time, until now no

President, Attorney General, or Congressional committee

has been

exposed to the entire program in detail.

I: The program is not authorized by statute but is founded

on a series of secret or ambiguous Presidential orders,

which in turn are based upon a questionable assertion

of "inherent constitutional authority".

.З..

The program continues today, albeit on a much more

limited basis than in the late 1960's and early 1970's,

and the basic machinery for the program -- the huge

informant/confidential source network - is still

operating:

K.

There is no statute or internal Bureau or Justice Depart-

ment policy prohibiting a new Director, Attorney General,

or President from ordering

the Bureau to expand the pro

gram to its earlier dimensions.

II.

Issues and Options

Among the issues and options which might be discussed with

former Attorneys General in response to what the Committee

has learned are the following:

A.

Abolition. Elimination of the FBI internal security

intelligence program as Attorney General Harlan Stone

ordered in 1924 when confronted with abuses growing out

of the FBI's first internal security intelligence pro-

gran, such

as the infamous Palmer raids.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider

the following issues:

1.

Whether there are not some functions le.g., protecting

the President, preventing or at least predicting

violence by terrorist organizations, or predicting

civil disorders) which require intelligence collec-

tion.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 6

---

## Page 7

- 3 -

B.

2. Whether FBI intelligence reports are valuable in

that respect, especially in light of a recent GAO.

report suggesting that such reports. are rarely use-

ful in predicting violent activity.

3. Whether such information, assuming it is valuable,

could not be obtained through more traditional criminal

investigations.

4.

Whether the value of the information; marginäl of

otherwise, justifies the risk to civil liberties

inherent in such intelligence collection.

5. Whether, given the way in which limited and ambiguous

grants of authority have been expanded into major

authorizations,..any statute short of a total prohibi-

tion of all non-law enforcement intelligence activi

ties in the domestic sector will be adequate to pre-

vent the recurrences of the kinds of abuses uncovered

•by this Committee.

(Or, conversely, whether it is

possible to draft a law authorizing a limited civil

: disturbance and counter-terrorist intelligence mission

that will not eventually evolve, like the National

Security Act of 1947, into a charter for unanticipated

and unwanted covert activities.

6. Whether it would be sufficient to restrict the FBI

to criminal investigations

without also

(a) placing

limits upon the length of investigations, (bi the

kinäs of information which can be collected and dis~

seminated on the

subject

irrelevant to the alleged

criminal act, (c). the utilization of warrantless

electronic surveillance and other particularly inva-

sive collection techniques, and (d) the utilization

of a huge informant/confidential source network with-

out judicial or Justice Department supervision.

Authorizing Statute.

Recognition of the value of

internal security intelligence, but placing limits upon

the program designed to minimize the

infringement upon

civil liberties, an option being actively considered by

the present

Attorney General.

In weighing this option, the Comnittee should consider

many of the

issues set out under the first option and,

in addition:

_ NW 88614_Docld:32989602 Page

---

## Page 8

-4-

C.

1.

Whether meaningful and stringent guidelines can be

written which do not so hamper the administration

of an internal security intelligence program as to

make the product not just marginal, as GAO suggests, •

but worthless.*

2. In light of the possibility that the present Attorney

General may address this matter via internal Justice

Department guidelines, whether this approach does

not ignore the legal authority question which can •

only be resolved by statute.

3.

Whether of not Congress could draft a statutory ver-

sion of the guidelines which could be flexible enough

to meet an evolving threat and at the same time

place meaningful restrictions upon the program.

4.

Even assuming there is no absence of legal authority,

is it safe to leave these guidelines

in the form of a

departmental order which can be rescinded by the next

Attorney General?

Delegation of Authority to Attorney General. Simply

ratifying the present program via enactment of a statutory

charter which grants the FBI authority to conduct an

internal security intelligence program

subject to its own

internal guidelines or departmental guidelines

as proposed

by the Attorney General.

In weighing this option, the Conmittee should consider

many of the issues set out above and:

.1.'

Whether such a statute would not be an unconstitu-

tional delegation of powers to the Executive Branch.

2.

Whether enactment of such a statute would not repre-

sent a

failure by the Congress to confront the issues

raised above.

*A preliminary staff analysis of the Attorney General's draft

guidelines suggests that, despite months of conscientious and

painstaking work by a departmental task force, the guidelines

are not adeguate.

This analysis, which will be presented

when

Attorney General Levi testifies on December 10, indicates that

several of the more questionable FBI investigations (e.g., of

bi. King and the women's liberation movement) would still be

permissible under these

proposed guidelines.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 8

---

## Page 9

- 5-

D.

E.

Legislative Inaction.

Enact no new statute affecting

the FBI's legal authority or the internal security intel-

ligence program.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider

many of the issues set out above and, in addition:

1.

Whether this failure to act might not leave the

status of the program in doubt and subject to court

challenge.

2.

Whether this failure to act after full disclosure

by the Bureau might not be

taken by the FBI and the

courts as a ratification of the program.

Administrative Oversight by the Attorney General. The

Justice Department should be required to exercise greater

administrative oversight over the FBI's internal security

intelligence program by Attorney General Levi, regardless

of whatever other options Congress accepts.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider

the following issues:

1.

Whether it is practical for the Attorney General or

his staff to review thousands of such investigations

each year.

2.

Whether the Attorney General or his staff should

review all or just the so-called "full" investiga-

tions.

3. *

Whether, to facilitate the conduct of such reviews,

the Attorney General or his staff should be given

"complete" access to Bureau files, including informa-

tion regarding the identity and reliability of infor-

mants and confidential sources.

4.

Whether it is possible to develop a staff of career

attorneys within the Department with both the access.

and independence essential to the conduct of search-

ing reviews.

5.

Whether the Attorney General or his staff should not

also be required to review various informant and so-

called

"intensification" programs, and the establish-

ment of specialized indices (which have a significant

Impact upon which cases are opened) instead of just

reviewing individual investigations in a vacuum

provided by the Attorney General's draft guidelines.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 9

---

## Page 10

F.

An. Inspector General.. In addition to the above options,

an independent Inspector General should be created to

investigate improprieties by the FBI.

This option is

advanced by those concerned about the inadequacy of the

FBI's investigation of the disappearance of former

Director Hoover's personal files, its limited inquiry

into the so-called Atlantic City convention case, and

the absence of any internal investigation of the abuses

in the King case.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider

the following issues:

1. Whether it is possible to maintain the independence

of an Inspector General within the Department of

Justice when both the Inspector General and the

Director of the FBI will be responsible to the same

official, the Attorney General.

2.

Whether the Inspector General should have "complete"

access to Bureau files, including information per-

taining to the identity and reliability of informants

and confidential sources.

• 3.

Whether an Inspector General with access to extremely

sensitive information might not become a

serious

threat to the independence of the Bureau from politi-

cal influence and to the civil liberties of American

citizens.

G.

Congressional Oversight.

In adäition to the above

options, the creation of an oversight committee (s) in the

Congress, to which the Bureau would, be required to report

and which would have the power to investigate abuses.

In weighing this option, the Committee

should consider

the kinds of problems posed by the Justice Department

oversight and Inspector General options discussed above

to the independence of the FBI and the confidentiality

of its files.

H.

Public Reporting and Disclosure to Subjects.

In addition

to the above options, the requirement that the FBI make

frequent public reports on the details of its internal.

security intelligence programs

and policies

and reveal

the details of improper intelligence investigations to

the subjects of those investigations.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 10

---

## Page 11

- 7

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider

the following issues:

I. Whether it is possible to reveal the essence of some

programs and policies and

the details of some inves-

tigations without jeopardizing the effectiveness of

legitinate programs.

2. Whether such disclosure might not increase the num-

ber of law suits filed against the FBI alleging

illegal activities.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 11

---

## Page 12

DRAFT

MEMOPANDUM

December 4, 1975.

'FBI LEGISLATION - PROPOSED OPTIONS

In preparation for the testimony. of FBI Director

Kelley and Attorney General Levi on December 9 and 10, the

Domestic Intelligence Task Force is pulling together various

proposals fpr legislation dealing with FBI intelligence.

This paper sets forth some of the basic options.

-

A:

Current Statutes and Executive Orders

The basic statute governing the FBI is 18 U.S.C. 533,

which reads

as follows:

The Attorney General may appoint officials:

• (1)

to detect and

prosecute crimes against

the United States, (2) to assist in the

protection of the person of the President,

triced states,

and (3) to conduct such other investigations

regarding official matters under the control

of the Department of Justice and the Depart-

ment of State as may be directed by the

Attorney General.

Clauses (2) and (3) are a possible statutory basis

for intelligence investigations going beyond the investigation

of specific federal crimes. Under (2), the FBI may "assist" the

Secret Service in the protection of the President by providing

-

AMPIRE RATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 18 UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/31 00 8Y. 5P2 ALMKP

NW-88614 Docld:32989602 Page 12

62 +16-395-12154

ENGLOSURE

---

## Page 13

intelligence on persons or groups who may endanger the Presi-

dent's safety.:A formal agreement between the FBI and the

secret Service sets forth the, types of intelligence information

provided by the Bureau., However, this agreement states that:

The FBI will not conduct investigation

of individuals or groups solely for the pur-

pose of establishing whether they constitute

a threat to the safety of the President and

certain other persons unless there is an

indication of a violation of Title 18, U.S.

Code, Section 1751, of other statute over

which the FBI has

jurisdiction.

(Tab A)

Clause (3) recognizes that the Attorney General may

direct the FBI to conduct investigations, other than criminal

investigations, regarding certain undefined "official matters

under the control of the Department of Justice." This is a

possible statutory basis for at least two broad areas of FBI

intelligence investigations - civil disturbance intelligence

and intelligence for the Federal Employee Security. Program.

The most recent legal advice to the FBI from the Justice

Department on the gathering and reporting of data regarding

civil disturbances notes that on April'1, 1969, the President

designated the Attorney General as chief civilian officer to

coordinate the government's response to civil disturbances.

The FBI is instructed to gather and report on "all' significant

incidents of civil unrest" and on "all disturbances where there

are indications that extremist organizations . : . are believed

to be invoived in efforts to instigate or exploit them. " The

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 13

---

## Page 14

3

FBI is specifically advised to make reports "even when no

specific violation of federal law is indicated." On the other

hand, the FBI is instructed not to report "every relatively in-

significant incident of a strictly local nature coming to its

attention." (Tab B)

The Justice Department has given the following recent

instructions to the FBI regarding intelligence for the Federal

Emplojee Security Progiam. Executive Order 10450, as amended

, by Executive Order 11785, is interpreted as requiring an FBI

investigation of organizations "with a potential" of violating

federal or state statutes prohibiting unlawful advocacy of vio-

lence or the commission of any unlawful act of violence. The

FBI is advised that "it is not possible to set definite para-

meters covering the initiation of investigations of potential

organizations falling within the Order." The FBI is instructed

to apply "the same yardstick" to investigations of individuals

who are affiliated with such organizations. The FBI is specifi-

cally advised that "it is not necessary that a crime occur

before the investigation is initiated." (Tab C)

Clause (3) also recognizes that the Attorney General

may direct the FBI to conduct investigations, other than criminal

investigations, regarding certain undefined "official matters

under the control of the Department of State." This is a pos-

sible statutory basis for FBI intelligence investigation of

• foreign

intelligence activities within the United States or to

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 14

---

## Page 15

- 4

colleat positive foreign intelligence. The best example is

the Attorney General!s authorization of

warrantless FBI elec-

tronic surveillance

for foreign intelligence purposes.

However,

there is apparently no instruction from the Justice Department

to the FBI directing the Bureau to initiate investigations of

individuals or organizations which have a marked potential for

use by a foreign intelligence service, but about which there is.

no informatiop indicating intelligence activity. (See Staff.

Report, "Counterintelligence/Counterespionage: The Law and

the Philosophy", October 14, 1975.)

•. In his testimony before the Committee, Deputy Associate

FBI Director James Adams made no reference to clauses (2) and

(3) as a possible legal basis for FBI intelligence investiga-

tions going beyond the investigation of specific federal crimes.

Instead, he placed sole reliance on a series of Presidential

directives extending from 1936 until the 1960's which the FBI

interprets as authorizing it to engage in

¿ "domestic security

intelligence investigations". The Attorney General has codified

these directives in a Justice Department regulation instructing

the FBI to:

Carry out the Presidential directive

of September 6, 1939, as reaffirmed by Presi

dential directives of January 8, 1943, July

24, 1950, and December 15, 1953, designating

the [FBI]

to take charge of investigative

work in matters relating to espionage, sabotage,

subversive activities,

and related matters.

28 C.F.R., Section 0.85 (d) .

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 15

---

## Page 16

5

The FBI also cites directives.of President Kennedy on June 9,

1962, and Attorney General Kennedy on March 5, 1964, which

are the latest charter for the Interdepärtmental Intelligence

conference, composed of the FBI Director and the chiefs of the

military intelligence agencies. This group is

authorized to

coordinate "all investigation of domestic espionage, counter-

espionage, sabotage, subversion, and other related intelligence

matters affecting internal security." (Tab D)

The theory behind the FBI's position is that the Prési-

dent.has inherent constitutional powers, at least in the

absence of contrary legislation, to authorize FBI intelligence

activities.. The only judicial support for this theory is

language in the Supreme Court's opinion in the Keith case,

which declared warrantless wiretapping of domestic groups un-

constitutional.

The Court acknowledged the importance of "national secu-

rity in its domestic implications... especially at a time

of worldwide ferment and when civil disorders in this country

are more prevalent than in the less turbulent periods of our

history." Under such circumstances, the Court stated, the

President has a "fundamental duty" under the Constitution to

"preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United

States." The Court added, "Implicit in

that duty is the power

to protect our Government against those who would subvert or

overthrow it by unlawful means." Hence, the Court appeared to

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 16

---

## Page 17

-. 6 -

recognize that the President's "domestic security role" has a

"constitutional basis"; that the President through the Attorney

General may need "to obtain intelligence information about those

who plot unlawful acts against the Government"; and that "threats

and acts of sabotage against the Government exist in sufficient

number to justify investigative powers with respect to them."

The Court applied the general principle, that "unless the Govern-

ment safeguards its own capacity to function and to preserve

the

security of its people, society itself could become so dis-.

ordered that all rights and liberties would be endangered."

Nevertheless, the central holding of the Keith decision was that

this power may not be exercised in such a way, as to infringe

constitutional rights. 407 U.S. 297 (1972) .

Even though the President may have the authority under

the Constitution to direct the FBI to conduct intelligence

investigations in the absence of legislation, Congress has the

ultimate authority to substitute statutory authorization in

place of the Presidential dicectives. As Justice Robert Jackson

declared in the Steel Seizure Case, "When the President takes

measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of

Congress, his power is at its lowest ebb.

343 U.S. 579,

637.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Option One -- Patifying Existing Powers

The first option for Congress is legislation ratifying

the existing. authority granted to the FBI by current Presiden

tial directives and orders. Such legislation would be cast in

extremely general terms. Its main advantage is that it woula

provide a basis for Congressional oversight. It could also

reinforce the Attorney General's role as the immediate super-.

VISOr Of FBI intelligence activities. The statute would

authorize the Attorney General to direct the FBI:

1. to conduct investigations of domestic espionage;

counterespionage, sabotage, and subversive activities;

2 .

to gather and report information on civil distur-

bances;

..

3. to conduct investigations of other related intelli-

gence matters affecting internal

security; and

4. to conduct investigations of official matters relat-

ing to the Department of State.

In addition, the statute would require the Attorney General

to report annually to the appropriate Congressional committees

on the volume and type of investigations and reports, the

Investigative techniques used, and the policies and procedures

adopted by the Justice Department and the FBI:

The weaknesses of this approach are obvious. Congress

would have legislated a wholesale delegation of power without

_ NW_88614_Docld:32989602 Page 18

---

## Page 19

• - 8

-

standards or limitations other than the supervision of the

Attorney General and. oversight.by Congress.. In view of the :

Select Committee's findings as to the vast overbreadth of FBI

• domestic intelligence investigations and the abuses committed

in the name of "counterintelligence", Congress would in effect

be permitting future expansion of FBI operations to match past

policies.

C. Option Two

- A Separate Security Intelligence Agency

Congress might give serious consideration to legislation

creating a separate Security Intelligence Agency within the

Justice Department. It would perform the functions of the

present Counterintelligence Branch of the FBI Intelligence

Division; dealing with foreign intelligence and counterintelli

gence/counterespionage. The FBI itself has considered this

option as part of the larger question of separating all FBI

• intelligence functions from tbe

law enforcement functions of

the Bureau. (Tab 'E)

A separate agency would be justified only if it was

authorized to conduct investigations of a wider scope and using

different techniques than would otherwise be permitted.

In

other words, Congress could decide that foreign counterintelli-

gence investigations should go beyond investigation of specific

crimes, that techniques

such as electronic surveillance shoula

be used without a warrant or with a special type of warrant,

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 19

---

## Page 20

- 9

and that operations should be. conducted to "counter"

foreign

intelligence activities by means other than arrest or "persona

non grata". proceedings. On the other hand, it congress treats

the investigation of foreign intelligence activities the same

as a criminal investigation, then the FBI should keep the job.

Any statute in this area must use general language for

diplomatic reasons. For example, Congress should not explicitly

authorize deception operations or efforts to compromise hostile

intelligence officers, even though such techniques may be

envisioned. Such techniques are dealt with best by establish-

ing adequate procedures for authorization and oversight to

ensure accountability.

The legislation should be more specific where it deals

with investigations and other operations directed at American

citizens rather than non-resident aliens in the service of a

foreign power.. If Congress believes Americans should be inves-

tigated if they have a marked potential. for use

by a foreign

intelligence service, but no information indicating intelligence

activity yet exists, the legislation should say so.

The statute should also set out standards for determin-

ing whether a foreign-dominated domestic organization falls

within the jurisdiction of the separate agency. There should

at the very least be substantial information indicating that

the organization is directed by, subsidized by, or in active

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 20 .

---

## Page 21

- 10 -

collaboration with a foreign government or organization. (The.

term "foreign organization" refers, for instance, to.

a group

like the Palestine Liberation Organization.) If the group fits

the criteria for foreign

domination, there should be an addi-

tional finding that it may engage in intelligence activities or

in activities involving the use of violence in violations of

federal law.

If the group meets all these standards, Congress may

authorize the investigation.of its activities going beyond

regular criminal investigations. Such investigations. could

extend to all individuals who are members of, or express sup-

port for, the organization, as well as to the efforts of the

organization to influence and control other groups: However,

it may be sufficient to authorize only the investigation. of

active members and supporters. This would prevent a revival

of the "Cominfil" policy of looking into all forms of lawful

political and social activity where Communists might be involv-

ed.

The Petersen Committee report on COINTELPRO considered

the need for special supervision of foreign counterintelligence

operations in the United States. It recommended the creation

of a Foreign Intelligence Advisosy Commission to make decisions

with regard to the necessity or acceptability of particular

• foreign counterintelligence techniques. (Tab F) This proposal

NW 88614 Docld:32939602 Page 21

---

## Page 22

-

11

has merit in view of the limited amount of time the Attorney

General can give to personal supervision and the after-the-fact

role of legislative oversight regarding the separate agency.

Finally, legislation to create a

separate foreign

counterintelligence agency must deal with relationships to the

Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, and other

foreign intelligence agencies. The current FBI-CIA agreement

on their respective jurisdictions is only a "memorandum of under-

standing": It allows the CIA to undertake certain clandestine -

activities within the United States, in coordination with the

FBI. (TabG) Proposals are currently circulating in the Execu-

tive Branch for a new National Security Council Intelligence

Directive to clarify this matter, as well as to regulate CIA

electronic surveillance of American citizens abroad. (rab H)

A full draft of a statutory charter for a separate

foreign counterintelligence agency is not included here, since

the focus is on domestic intelligence issues. However, one

implication of such a statute would be that the remaining FBI

functions should relate only to law enforcement and criminal

investigations.

D. Option Three -- Elimination of FBI Domestic Intelligence

The basic assumption behind Attorney General Levi's

effort to develop "guidelines"

for FBI domestic intelligence

is that regular criminal investiyations are not adequate to

NW 88614 Docld:32489602 Page 22

---

## Page 23

12 =

supply the information needed to anticipate or prevent the use

of violence in violations of federal. law. That assumption.

should be questioned. Regular criminal investigations are

likely to produce a substantial amount of information which

can be used to anticipate or prevent future crimes. For example,

intensive criminal investigations of Ku Klux KIan violence in

the South during the 1960's would have required the FBI to 100k

into a wide variety of Klan activities. Another example is the

search for Weatherman fugitives, a regular criminal investiga-

tion which involves broad inquiries across the country. The

FBI has not yet demonstrated that the preventive information

it has obtained came from intelligence investigations which

would not have been conducted as regular criminal investigations.

The fact that an FBI investigation was supervised by

its Intelligence Division does not necessarily mean that the

investigation was, automatically, outside the regular criminal

law enforcement jurisdiction of the Bureau. Any FBI Investiga-

tion of activities involving the use of violence in violations

of federal law falls within that jurisdiction. Moreover,

regular criminal investigations can also extend to plans,

attempts, or conspiracies to engage in such

activities.

One suggested difference between intelligence-type and

regular criminal investigations is that the latter are

terminated after a reasonable time, if sufficient evidence

to

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 23

---

## Page 24

- 13

justify prosecution is not obtained.

However, there is no

Legal. reason why the prosecutor cannot request that the inves-

tigation continue indefinitely as

long as there is information

that

violent activities and plans for violence are still under-

way. The degree of evidence needed to justify a prosecution

is certainly greater than the degree of evidence needed to

justify an investigation.

All this is not to say that no further standards are

needed to guide regular criminal investigations when they may

touch on sensitive First. Amendment or other constitutional

interests. This is especially true of criminal investigations

of individuals or groups engage both in lawful political oi

social activities and in unlawful violence or plans for vio-

•lence. Io what extent is the advocacy of violence a proper

basis for initiating an investigation? Should an investigation

be initiated on the basis of allegations of other information

that an individual is a member of, or has expressed public

support for, an organization which has as one of its objectives

the use of violence?

Should an investigation be started on all

members and public supporters of an organization, some of whose

members have acted in concert to use violence?

These questions are addressed in the draft Attorney

• General's guidelines for domestic intelligence investigations

under the heading "preliminary investigations". (Tab I) Since

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 24

---

## Page 25

14

the guidelines assume that there should be intelligence inves-

tigations, they do not consider whether such investigations:

might be permitted as regular criminal investigations.

The Klan and Weatherman examples again illustrate the

point. Once it has been established that a particular Klan •

group is engaged in or planning violence, it seems reasonable

to conduct at least preliminary inguiries to determine whether

the members and supporters of the group are involved in the

violence .or the plans for violence. Similarly, the search for

Weatherman fugitives who committed bombings and other

acts of

violence would appear reasonably to include preliminary

inquiries to determine whether other Weatherman members and

supporters have harbored the fugitives:

on the other hand, it would seen unreasonable to

investigate members and supporters of all Kian groups across

the country on

. the ground that some Klan groups have used

violence. And it appears equally unreasonable to investigate

all members and supporters of SDS because the Weatherman

faction engaged in violence. The scope of the investigation

must be logically related to its specific purpose, and not an

excuse for wide-ranging collection of intelligence.

There is one possible exception to the requirement that

• the FBI only conduct regular criminal investigations. The

Attorney General (and the President) do require reports on

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 25

---

## Page 26

- 15

major civil disturbances which may not involve violations of

federal law. The FBI should be authorized

to gather such. data

and make appropriate reports as part of its law enforcement

responsibilities. However; the data and reposts should be

limited to information provided by local or state law enforce-

ment authorities or obtained in the course of a regular FBi

criminal investigation. Where local authorities provide infor-

mation about individuals and organizations which are not the

subject of a regular FBI criminal investigation, the data and

reports should not be included in the FBI's general files and

name index.

In periods of widespread civil disturbances, the

Attorney General may require a more systematic procedure foi

maintaining and retrieving civil disturbance information. This

was the case in 1967, when Attorney General Clark created the

Interdivisional Intelligence Unit in the Justice Departmant.

The IDIU stoxed and indexed civil disturbance reports separately

from the FBI. The data was used to help anticipate or ameliorate

disorders. IDIU has been abolished, although the basic function

of evaluating reports on civil disturbances is still performed

by the Justice Department. This function should also be

authorized by statute, and the intent of congress should be

..that the Attorney General must obtain specific legislative

authorization for any future IDIU.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 26

---

## Page 27

- 16 -

IDIU was not perfect. Under Attorney General John

Mitchell it supplied a list of names of American dissidents

to the CIA.: (Tab J) It also was used in conjunction with

grand jury proceedings inquiring into

terrorist bombings.

•Both of these activities should be forbidden by the statute

authorizing the Justice Department to evaluate civil distur

bance information,

Finally, legislation may be needed to make clear that

the

FBI is not authorized to conduct investigations of organi-

zations or individuals for the specific purpose of compiling

a body of data to be used in connection with name checks under

the Federal Employee Security Program. The same principle

applies to FBI "assistance" to the Secret Service, under the

present FBI-Secret Service agreement.

A statute must also adaress the FBI's current practice

of maintaining an Administrative Index (ADEX) of the prime

subjects of current domestic intelligence

investigations. The

past history of the FBI's Security Index and other target lists

(Key Activists, Agitator Index, Key Black Extremists) suggests

the need to enact legislation banning the compiling of lists

of persons by the FBI, unless such persons have been arrested

or convicted for specific crimes and the list is used in con-

nection with the investigation of such crimes.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 27

---

## Page 28

- 17: -

These proposals to limit the FBI to regular criminal

investigations and civil disturbance reporting must be tested

against the actual past experience of the Justice Department

•and the FBI. General instructions from the Department to the

Bureau may be overly vague, even within the framework of

criminal investigation. Two examples are Attorney General

Clark's memorandum on riots in 1967 and Assistant Attorney

General Yeagley's memorandum of campus disorders in 1969. (Tab

K) The Nation of Islam exchange between the Department and the

FBI in 1973-74 is another illustration. (rab I)

Thus, there is no automatic panacea in restricting the

FBI to criminal investigations. The need for careful scrutiny

of actual investigative policies and practices by Congress

and

the Attorney General is just as great as i the FBI were

authorized to conduct domestic intelligence investigations.

Legislation must focus on procedures for ensuring accountability

by regular repoits from the Attorney General.to the appropriate

Congressional committees.

The following are some of the basic elements which should

go into a statute embodying this option. It would authorize the

Attorney General to direct the FBI:

•1. to investigate violations of federal criminal laws,

provided that the scope and duration of the investigation are

logically related to its specific purpose;

- NW-886.14_Docid:32989602. Page 28

---

## Page 29

-

18.-

2.

to take only such investigative measures as

are

sanctioned by rule of law, procedure, oi judicially recognized

or accepted investigative practices, and are not. in violation

of state or federal law;:

3. to seek legal advice from the Attorney General or

his designee whenever a proposed action may be perceived, with

reason, to unfairly affect the rights of citizens, provided that

this responsibility to seek legal advice is the duty of both the

FBI as an institution and FBI agents as individuals;

4.: to collect information from state and local law.

enforcement agencies regarding major civil disturbances, provia-

ed that such information is not entered into the FBI general

files and name index;

5. to disseminate information obtained from criminal

investigations for the following purposes, under regulations

promulgated by the Attorney General and published in the Federal

Register:

a: prosecution of violations of criminal laws;

b. prevention or anticipation of violations of

criminal laws;

C.

assistance to the secret service in the perfor-

mance of its protective responsibilities;

a. determination of the suitability of

individuals

for employment by the federal government;

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 29

---

## Page 30

119 .

6:

to report civil disturbance information obtained

from state and local law enforcement agencies to the Attorney •

General for the purpose of determining. the need to use federal

military force under 10 U:S.C. 331 et seg.;

7: to compile such lists of persons arrested or con-

victed for specific crimes as may be necessary for use in con-

nection with the investigation of such crimes;

•8, toiprovide to the Attorney General of his designee

full access to any information in the possession of the FBI

which he may deem necessary for the performance of his respon-

sibilities to supervise FBI activities

and to submit reports to.

appropriate Congressional committees on FBI activities;

9. to follow such other procedures and standards con-

sistent with this statute which the Attorney General may pre-

scribe, provided that such procedures and standards shall be

published in the Federal Register or, if publication would sub-

stantially interfere with the conduct of investigations,

reported to appropriate Congressional committees.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 30

---

## Page 31

- 20 .

E.

Option Four - Setting Standards for Domestic Intelligence

The FBI. should

be authorized by

statute to conduct

domestic intelligence investigations only if Congress finds

(1) that regular criminal investigations as described above

would not provide information to anticipate or prevent the use

of violence in violations of federal law, and (2) that the inci-

dents

ot the use of violence in violations of federal law are

so numerous and so serious as to constitute a significant threat

to the internal security or domestic tranquility of the United —

States.

The fact that there are individuals and groups who

engage in violence, advocate violence, or believe in the desir-

ability of the ultimate use of violence to advance their

political or social objectives is not enough to justify FBI

domestic intelligence authority. There must be additional

findings that regular criminal investigations are inadequate

and that the overall threat of violence

constitutes a serious

danger to the country.

Furthermore, if FBI domestic intelligence is authorized

by statute, it should be an annual authorization which must be

renewed each year upon reconsideration by Congress and the

•Attorney General of these factors.

Past experience indicates

that the annual appropriations process does not provide an

appropriate forum for considering

the FBI's basic authority.

NW 88614 Docld: 32989602 Page 31

---

## Page 32

- 21

Attorney General Levi's draft guidelines provide a basis

for the consideration of a domestic intelligence authorization.

They do not cover the investigation of foreign-related

activities

which may be directed by, subsidized by, or other

wise conducted in active collaboration with a foreign government,

a foreign organization, or their agents. (See Option Two above.).

The guidelines deal with five different types of threats

of violence which may constitute serious dangers to the country:

1. overthrow of the government (revolutionary violence);

: 2.: interference in the U. S.

with the activities of a

foreign government (bombing a consulate, attempting to assassi-

nate a visiting foreign leader);

3. interference with the functioning of the government

or the flow of interstate commerce to influence federal policies

(violent protest activities, terrorist bombings);

4. deprivation of civil rights (Klan violence, violent

protest against busing);

5. incitement of violence which may require the use of

federal military force (riots, major civil disturbances accom-

panying protest demonstrations).

The guidelines also refer to violence directed at state govern-

ments, either overthrow of a state government or interference

with the functioning of a state government.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 32

---

## Page 33

•- .22

Authorizing legislation should indicate whether domestic

intelligence is necessary for any or all of these specific prob-

lems. For example, revolutionary violence in an attempt to

overthrow the government

may be a remote and speculative danger,

while terrorist bombings may be substantially interfering with

the functioning of the government. Klan violence was unques-

tionably a serious danger to civil rights in the early and mid-

1950's, but is it so today? Major riots and civil disturbances

were equally serious in the late 1960's and early 1970's, but

not

in more recent years. Violent interference with the func-

tioning of a state government should, under our federal system,

normally be dealt with by state and local law enforcement.

Therefore, the definition of the purpose of fBI domestic

intelligence can'be simplified. The Attorney Caneral's draft

guidelines might be revised to authorize FBI domestic intelli-

gence

investigations:

1.

to ascertain facts or information which serves to

anticipate and prevent the use. of violence in violations of

federal law intended to

a. Interfere, in the United States, with the

activities of a foreign government of its authorized represen-

tatives; and

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 33

---

## Page 34

- 23

b. interfere with the functioning of the government

of the United States or the free flow of interstate commerce in

order to influence policies or decisions of the federal govern-

ment:

This formulation concentrates on the most likely current serious

danger to the country, namely, politically motivated terrorist

violence. FBI Director Kelley's recent public statements have

stressed the increase in terrorist activity from 24 bombings in

1973 to 45 terrorist bombings in 1971 and 46 such bombings in -

the. first six months of 1975.

However, this increasing threat is not the only factor

to be considered. In the course of the FBI's regular criminal

investigations of these bombings and other incidents of tercor

ist violence, can it obtain as a by-product substantial infor-

mation which may serve to anticipate and prevent future vio

lence? If so,, the need for broader intelligence-type investi-

gations is less evident.

The draft guidelines provide that the FBI would conduct

full-scale intelligence investigations on the basis of

"specific and articulable facts justifying the conclusion"

that an individual, or individuals acting in concert, may be

engaged in activities which may involve the use of violence in

violations of

federal. law. The two "mays" render

the require.

ment of "specific and articulable facts" almost meaningless.

Therefore, any legislation should

authorize the FBI:

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 34

---

## Page 35

- 24 -

2.

to conduct full domestic intelligence investigations

on the basis of specific and articulable facts justifying the

conclusion that an individual, or individuals acting in concert,

are engaged in activities which are likely to involve the use

of violence as described in l above.

The draft guidelines also discuss the surveillance tech-

niques to be used in full domestic intelligence investigations, •

including informants, mail covers, and electronic surveillance.

The

guidelines note that additional techniques may need to be

covered, such as inquiries made under "pretext", photographic

surveillance, "trash covers", etc. However,. the legislation may

deal with techniques more generally by providing that the FBI

is authorized:

3. to take only such investigative measures as are

sanctioned by rule of law, procedure, or judicially recognized

or accepted investigative practices, and are not in violation

of state or federal law.

More detailed regulation of investigative techniques for full

Investigations will be considered elsewhere.

The scope of domestic intelligence investigations under

the draft guidelines is broadened considerably under the pro-

vision for "preliminary investigations". They can be

initiated on the basis of allegations or other information that

:.an individual, or individuals acting in concert, have advocated

activities which may involve violence, or are members of, or

-NW-88614_Docld:32989602 Page 35

---

## Page 36

.- 25 =

have expressed public support for, an organization which has

as its objective activities wnich may involve violence. The

purpose

of the preliminary investigation is to verify or refute

the allegations or information.

However, the vagueness of the

standard is obvious.

Therefore, to be consistent with the

criteria for full investigations, the FBI should be authorized:

4. to conduct preliminary domestic intelligence inves-

tigations on the basis of allegations or other information that

an indiviaual, or individuals acting in concert,

a. advocate the use of violence as described in 1

above;

b. are engaged in activities which are likely, to

involve the use of violence as described in 1 above;

c.. are members of or have expressed. public support

for an organization engaged in activities which involve, or are

Likely to involve, the use of violence as described in 1 above,

provided that other members of the organization are currently

the subject of a full domestic intelligence investigation or a

regular criminal. investigation.

Unless these changes are made in the guidelines, they would per-

mit investigations similar to past investigations which have

been seriously criticized. For instance, they would allow in-

vestigations of all SDS members or all Black Student Union lead-

ers. on the ground that their activities may involve violence,

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 36•

---

## Page 37

- 26 -

even though there is no specific allegation of likely involve-

ment in violence..

Another reason for the revision is to exclude those

investigations which would be justified as regular criminal

investigations. Thus, allegations or other information that

an individual, or individuals acting in concert, have engaged

in or plan to engage in activities which involve the use of

violence would. fall within the FBI's regular criminal investi-

gative jurisdiction. Intelligence investigations would extend -

further at the preliminary stage to cover advocacy of violence

and membership in or public support for organizations involved

in or likely to be involved in violence. Full investigations

require a likelihood of violence, short of actual violence or

plans for violence.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 37

---

## Page 38

TO

:

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (11 CFRI 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr.

1. B. Adams

Legal Counsel

DATE: 12/5/75

ENATE SELECT COMMITTEE;

ATTORNEY GENERAL'S TESTIMONY,

DECEMBER 10, 1975

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin..

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs

Filos & Com.

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

abogargl

Plan. &/gval. -

Speç. Inv. -

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director Soc'y —

Mocks

At 3:01 p.m. on December 5, 1975, Mark Wolf of the Attorney

General's staff, called me at the instructions of the Attorney General

and advised that the Attorney General requested:

(1) FBI manual sections on domestic intelligence

investigations;

(2) A listing identifying all individuals and organizations

now the subjects of FBI domestic intelligence investigations.

Wolf said that the Attorney General is currently en route

Chicago and will return to Washington on Sundayevening. Therefobe,

the requested materials should be delivered to the Attorney General

no later than Monday morning, December 8, 1975.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the Intelligence Division prepare an appropriate

response to the Attorney General's instructions in time for delivery by:

9:00 a.m. on December 8, 1975.

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Cregar

1 - Mr. Hotis

1 - Mr. Daly

1 - Mr. Mintz

JAM:mfd

(6)

PREC962 - 116395-

12/5

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE 10/31/00 BY SPALMKA

15 DEC 17 1975

LEGAL /COUNSEL

if 3 1 1975;

NW 8861 bocld:32989602 Pp4yl/38, Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 39

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535,

Ais Kiguly, Pleuse Refer 10

File No. (SC) 62-7721

May,, 13, 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE

NATIONALIST PARTY OF PUERTO RICO

INTERNAL SECURITY - PUERTO RICAN NATIONALIST

I We presently maintain an authorized technical. sur-

veillance at the residence of Rosa Collazo and her daughter,

Lydia Collazo Turner, 1755 Anthony Avenue, Bronx, New York.

This surveillance was originally installed on April 13, 1962.

Rosa Collazo is the wife of Oscar Collazo who is

serving a life sentence in connection with the killing of

a White House guard

during an attempt to assassinate former

President Truman on November 1, 1950.

Both Rosa and her

daughter are active in the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico

in New York City.

During the past six months, this surveil-

lance has continued to furnish valuable information regarding

activities of Puerto Rican independence advocates in New York.

Through this surveillance, we have obtained information

concerning the movement of Puerto Rican nationalists between

New York and Puerto RiCo.

Included in this information was

advance notice that Rosa

• Collazo planned to attend the

General Assembly of the Nationalist Party of puerto Rico

during February, 1966, in Puerto RiCO.

Upon her returi,

details were obtained

concerning the proceedings of the

General Assembly.

In addition, we were able to obtain advance

notice of demonstrations in New York City in which

nationalists participatea.

This enabled us to inform police

authorities and interested Government agencies in advance ot

the demonstrations.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Its use is limited to official proceedings

nation outside your Committee.

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized

express approval of the FBI.

nel without the

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 39

Unless you instruct to the contrary, this technical

surveillance will be continued for an additional six months.

Very truly yours,

John Edgar, Hoover

Director

-aro

---

## Page 40

SECRET

•UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Roply; Please Refer 10

Vi kile No.

WASHINGION, D.C. 20535

June 3, 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAI

Re: DOMINICAN SITUATION

INTERNAL SECURITY -

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Diego Emilio Bordas Hernandez and his brother,

Inis Manuel Alfredo Bordas,

have emerged in the curcent

Dominican crisis as important financial, political and

military advisors to the deposed Dominican President Juan "

Bosch in the latter's efforts to regain control of the

Dominican Government. Diego Bordas is a wealthy shipping

executive currently

residing in exile in San Juan,

Puerto Rico,

having been born in the Dominican Republic on January 11, 1923.

He served in various high posts under Juan Bosch curing the

latter's short occupancy of the position of President of the

Dominican Republic in early 1963.

Bordas spends much of his

time at 368 ashford Avenue in San Juan, using an apartment

at that address as his residence during the absence of its

owner, Jose Antonio Benitez Jiminez, from Puerto Rico.

Jose Benitez is the cousin of Jaime

Benitez,

the latter the

Director of the University of Fuerto Rico and a close

•associate and advisor of

Juan Bosch.

Diego Bordas 2150

-

mainians a residence at 21 V, florencia

Pueblo Viego: a

suours of san Juan, near the current residence and headguarters

of Juan Bosch. Diego Bordas and his brother jointly operzte

a shipping business known as Bordas and Company at Mighway

Number 2, puerto Viejo, Puerto Rico, and his financial

dealings

in support of

the Bosch efforts can reasonably be

expected to be conducted from this commercial establishment.

The Bordas brothers have both been the subjectsof

numerous allegations indicating their cooperation with

proconmunist and pro-Trujillo factions in Dominican politics

and are apparently opportunists who have seized the current

situation to enhance their political and financial futures.

Luis Bordas is currently in the Doninican Republic acting as

the Director of Military Operations of the rebel forces

supporting Bosch.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION -suChET

S410: 109-12-211-

Unauthorized Disclosure

REC 4

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

4

JUN. 15 1964

NW 98614 Jodid 3299960? Page 40

Excladed from automatio

rectanstrteztion

---

## Page 41

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

Luis Bordas is reportedly the Honorary Nicaraguan

consul in san Juan, Puerto Rico, and, as a result, department

of State clearance

for technical coverage of the business he

operates jointly with Diego Bordas was obtained by the

Federal Bureau of Investigation on June 1, 1965.

In view of the pressing nature of the international

situation

as It relates to the Dominican Republic, It Is.

requested that you authorize technical coverage of the

residences of Diego Bordas mentioned above and of the business

address of the joint venture operated by the Bordas brothers.

Authority is requested for similar coverage of any addresses

to which the mentioned residences or business may move in

the future.

Respectfully,

Jghn Edgar Hoover

Director

APPROVED

DATE

224X

694/4-

SECRET

= 20

_NW 88614_Docld:32989602 Page 41

---

## Page 42

The Attorney

General

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr.. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

December 19, 1975

1 - Mr. P. E. Nugent

115.

Director,

U.

S.

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ITE 10/31/00 BY STRALMI

Commit

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. ..

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv..

Ident. -

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. =

Spoc.Inv. -

Training -

Legal Coun. -

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y

MAIL ROOM L

OW8G1ANDocid:0589602 Page 42

TELETYPE UNIT

Reference is made to SSC letter dated December 4,

1975, containing requests for materials concerning Martin

Luther King, Jx.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the

SSC is an original of a memorandum in response to Item 2 in

that letter.

reci

Also enclosed for your records is a copy of the

memorandum which is being delivered to you with a copy of the

document in response to item & which is being delivered to the

SSC.

Enclosures (2)

ST 115%,

REC-51

62-116-385-1214X

1 • The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael E. Shaheen,

Jr.

Special Counsel for

Intélligence Coordination7. JAN 22 1976

PEN: adn a

(9)

- ENCKSURE,

NOTE:

A copy of the SSC letter 12/4/75, is attached to the

file copy of enclosed letterhead memorandum.

Exact copy of

the memorandum being furnished is maintained in the office of

the

SENSTUDY 75 Project.

Arrangements have been made for a repre-

senative of the Legal Counsel Division to deliver the attached

memorandum as well as the document being provided to the SSC.

As indicated in the enclosed memorandum, Items 1, 3 and 4 requested

in the referenced SSC letter are being handled

separately.

Items

1 and 3 requested in referenced SSC letter are

the IS-3 and CI-3 Sections

respectively.

being handled by

• Item

4,

a Terestatement

of prior.

request submitted by the SSC is being handled separately

by. SA. V.

"R. Thornton of the IS-1 Section.

SPT

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 43

62-116395

2 - Mr.

J. A. Mintz

(1 - J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr.

W.

R. Wannall

- Mr. W.

0. Gregar

1 - Mr. P. E. Nugent

December 19, 1975

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TE REIN IS UNCLASSIFIET

ATE /93/100

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERACIONS WITH

RESPECI TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSG)

Refarence is made to SSC lotter dated Decenber l,

1975, containing requests for materials concerning Marcin

Luther King, Jr.

The purpose of this nemorandun is to effect dolivery

to the SSC of a copy of a letter from Mi. Hoover to The Honorable

Willian D. loyers, Special Assistant to the President, at the

White Houss, Washington, D. C., dated October 27, 1964.

It is notod that in addition to requesting a copy oi

this letker the SSC requested naterials reflecting this letter

was hand-delivered to the hite House by lix. Deloach on

October 28, 1964€

Attention is deava to the upper right-hand corner of

there roading

No additional

matorials are available in FBIHQ files reflecting dolivery of

this letter beyond the afarenentioned notation which, it appears,

bears the initial of lir.. Dcloach.

Iteng I, 3 and & Icquested in the referenced ssc

letter are boing

handled in separate reaponses.

1 - The Attorney General

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

PEN: adn ach

Dep. AD Inv. -

(8)

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

Ext. Affairs _

nation outsido nour Committee.

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv..

your Commi:' "e and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

Ident.

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

Inspection

ORIGINAL AND ONE TO AG

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. inv.

Training

gret

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

42-116-395-1314483

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 43

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 44

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

December 8, 1975

TO:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Michael E. Shaheen, JI.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

SUBJECT:

Senate Select Committee Request

Attached is a Senate Select Committee request

seeking delivery of certain Bureau materials. Please

prepare an appropriate response.

I invite your attention to paragraph numbered 4

which amends an earlier request of the Committee (Elliff

letter of November 25, 1975, Item 6c) which request was

the subject of a telephone conversation on December 3,

with Mr. Seymor Phillips of the Bureau:

cc: Paul Daly

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

DATE /0/31/00 BY SPAMMI

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 44

62+114-375-121447

---

## Page 45

FRANÉ CHUNCH, IPAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

HOWARD H, DAKER, JR.,

ALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, AF

WALTER D. FUDDLESTON, KY.

CHARLES MCC. MATHIA

GORLOT MORGAN. N.C.

RICHARD &. SCHWEIKER,.

DAHY HAHI, COLO.

WILLIAN G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

F. "DERICK A. 0, SCHWARZ,; JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

., MD.

United States menate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO iNTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES, 21, 8ATH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 4, 1975

-

Michael E. Shaheen, JI.,

Esq.

Special Counsel

for Intelligence

Coordination

Office of the Deputy Attorney. General

U. S. Department of Justice

• Washington, D.C.

20530

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN I5 UNCLASSIFIED

DATE10/3100 BY SPRALMKE

Dear Mike:

1311111

RECINED

DEC # 1975

JOIP

The Senate Select Committee requests the

following materials for delivery.

1. Delivery of all materials pertaining

to the circumstances surrounding the

recommendation for, authorization of,

and duration and termination of the

electronic surveillance referred to in

Items 1 and 22 of my letter of November

21, 1975 and in materials delivered to

the Committee on December 1, 1975.

2.

Delivery of a copy of the letter to Mr.

Bill Moyers, Special Assistant to the

President, dated October 27, 1964, and

materials reflecting that this letter

was hand delivered by Mr. Cartha DeLoach

on October 28, 1964.

3

Delivery of all materials pertaining to the

surveillances of Mrs. Anna Chennault in

identitien

October and November, 1968.

4

The Committee's request in my letter of

November 27, 1975, item 6c should be revised

to read as

follows:

"All memoranda and any

other materials which pertain to, bear upon,

or indicate any actions taken pursuant to or

connection with the recommendation contained

in this memornadum, including a summary of the

cecommendations of

relevant Bureau personnel

pertaining thereto."

Sincerely,

NW 88614 Docld:32989602

468 46395-2

sixt

---

## Page 46

-=.

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addresses:

ULTR

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

• Memo

→ Report dated -

12/19/75

Caption of Do SenSENATE SELECT COMMITTEE.

12/4/75 request - Martin L. King.

Date: 12/23/25

Delivered by:

Received by:

Kerea

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBl

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 0/3/00 58/53

-BY SPLALNKA

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 46

62111

ENCLOSURE

12/4X

---

## Page 47

NATE:

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

FBI.

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Conmittees

1. HOw PROVIDED (check appropriate

term.

for

review

not transmitted, so

moto!, a document was made available

* DOCUMENT |

BRIEFING INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY|

OTHER

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term;

add specific names if appropriate)

2. DATE PROVIDED

12/19/75

4.

SSC

HSC

IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum and enêtosures

afive, suppren te formal request,

other-

DO CHAORMATCON ON GET

Codeword TS or

SSC letter 12/4/75, item 2

7. key "orderfenter teppropriate key words from

Information handling

provided separately; if key words not listed are

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Materials relating to Martin Luther King, Jr.: Copy of a letter

fron Mr. Hoover to The Honorable Willian D. Moyers 10/27/64 along

with notation that shows letter was hand delivered by Mr.

DeLoach 10/28/64.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIES

DATE 10,31100 BYSP2ALMKK

62-116395

FMK: fnks

ORIGINAL, VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

379| (6-751

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 47

TREAT AS YELLOW

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

la Seist- 12144

---

## Page 48

18610151

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later, sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit, a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

etc. If actual document or transcript

pages may be attached if necessary.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 48

---

## Page 49

SSC LETTER

ITEM 2

12-4-75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

¡EREIN I9 UNCLASSIFIEI

ATE 10/31/00 BY SPALMIK

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 49

Retain

62-116-395-1214X

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 50

1

- Mr. Belmont

- Mr. Mohr

1 - Mr. DeLoach

#MDR-6

DECLASSI TED BY SPRALMK

0N 10/31/00

Honorable Willian D. Hoyers

Special Assistant to the President

The White Hcuse

Washington, D. C.

Deal Hix. Moyers:

October 28, 1964

BY LIAISON

1 - Mr. Evans

- Mx. Rosen

- Mr. Sullivan

- Mr. Bland

- Mx. Baumgardner

1

. - Mr. Phillips

A confidential souzce of this Bureau who has

supplied reliable inforuation in the past furnished the

Wigington was described as a member of the Denocratic

Pariy Correlation Conmittee,

Is an assistant to hazean authenting. dr, at the voucheste

christsan leadership Conterence, atlanta, beo.ga2.

Wigington indicated to Blackwell a desire for

7=

King to write "an anti-foldwater letter" which Wigingion's

Conmitree intonds to distribute in Texas among labor grougs.

Blacimell stated that Jing may go to Texas prior to the

forthconing presidential election and Blacmell inquired

as to whether King would be "in any danges."

Wigington

stated that he would contact one larry Goodman concerning

any possible danger to ling in Texas.

This Bureau's source

had

no information concerning the identity of Goodman.

Duzing this contact rigington complained to

Blackwell that a group from the Southern Christian Leader.

Ship Conference,

which Conference is headed by king, and

a group from the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher

Workmen of North America had picketed in Fort Worch,

Leag

Wigingion stated thai this was not a good thing

at this tino since all legro and labor organizations should

be working for the election of President Lyndon B. Johnson, &

This information is also being furnished to

oxficials in the Department of

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

{ó0-106670 (King)

Sincerely yours

De Loach.

1-100-442529 (CIRM)

Casper

3L9

0V/2.1964

Callahan

Conrad

* SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Evans.

Gale

ST-107

- WhoB

Rosen

Sullivan.

SFP : km J

Tavel

(12)

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Excluded

1

rom autonatie

Holmes -

Gandy

NW 88614-Docid: 12985602-

HERE SOUPE UNITI

downgradin

and

declassifichtion

UCT 2? 117 AM '5!

NATIONAL

Criminal

Unauthorized Disclosure

SECURITY

ORMATION

---

## Page 51

SEE

Honorable William D. Moyers

NOTE:

JINI

Classified "Seeret" as information reported is

from AT 1380-S*,

a highly sensitive source with respect

to the racial situation.

This source is of continuing

value and the unauthorized disclosure of this information

could compromise its effectiveness and thus be detrimental

to the national defense.

Information obtained from Atlanta

teletype 10/23/64.

2

FORET

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 51. •

---

## Page 52

The ACtO

General

Director,

FBI

1 - Mr. Bassett - Encs.

1 - Mr. Cleveland - Encs.

1 - Mr. Gallagher - Encs:

1 - Mr. McDermott: = Encs.

December 3,

1975

1 - Mr. Mintz -

Encs.

- Mr:

Walsh - Encs.

1

1

- MI.

Wannall - Encs.

- Mr. Hotis - Encs.

1 - Mr. Daly - Encs.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident..

Inspection -

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Plon. & Eval. _

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm.

ON

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVIFIES

On Novenber 21, 1975 Inspector John B. Hotis of this

Bureau met with Doug Marvin, Counselor to the Attorney General:

Mark Wolf, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Michael E.

Shaneen,

II., Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination,

concerning your forthconing appearance before the Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence Activities. At this neeting

this Dureau was requested to provide write-ups on certain phases

of this Bureau's operations which are to be used in the preparation

of a briefing book for your testinony.

Attached are the following individual write ups

requested on November 21, 1975g

#Investigative Technig

"Organizational Structure and

Functions of the FHI";

legation

of Misconduct Involving Special Agent in Charge, Wiant office"

*Director Hoover's 'official anã Confidential"

(OC) Files":

'Allegations of Possible Misconduct by FBI Agents, Houston,

Texas"

*Allegations of Personal and Official Misconduct of 2

Former Special Agent in Charge of the Baltimore Office";

"Allegation of Bribery by TDI Agent, New Jock"y. "Allegation of

Possible Misconduct by an FBI

Agent, Detroit, Michigan";

*allegations of Misconduct by FBI Agents, Richmond: Virginia,

field Office, in Connection with the Investigation of Illegal

Wiretapping by the Richnond,

Virginia, Folice Departuent*;

"Allegations of Violations of Cun Control Act by FBI Agent*:

"Review of Appropriationa vestitony for Fiscal Years 1955

thra 1976*:

"Tenure of fat Directos";

"Transfer of Drug

Enforcement Responsibilities to the

• FEI",. "Office of Special

Revlew, Department of Justice, and

"Major topies of Prinary

Concern to Congressional Comnittees.*

REC-9

With respect to Estatercl

62-116395-1212

requenseLy memorandun

of hark I. Wolf, Special Assistant to

the attorney

General,

HE DEC 29,1,975

PVD : dkg

SEE NOTE.

- PAGE: 2

67-116895-

5- woe

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

AL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT L

d:32989602 Page 52

---

## Page 53

The Attorney General

to Inspector John 3. Rotis of this office dated Novomber 26,

1975, which requented additional infornation, we are gathering

the necessary material on an expeditious hasis and the resulte

will be furnished as soon as possible.

Enclosures (15)

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention: Michael I. Shaheen, vr.

- Enclosures (15)

Special Counsel fOX

Intelligence

Coordination

See Legal Counsel Memorandum to Mr. J. B. Adams dated

11-24-75, captioned "Testimony By The Attorney General Before

The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities.

12-1-75 Mark Wolf, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,

requested the attached information be furnished as soon as

possible.

No later than 12-2-75. This response was coordinated

and incorporates material prepared by the Inspection, Special,

Investigative, General Investigative, Files and Communications,

and Intelligence Divisions.

Due to the time constraints we

are furnishing interim response.

As completed additional

material will be furnished to the Department.

2

• NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 53

---

## Page 54

2 - Mr

J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

The Attorney General

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

January 14, 1976

1 - Mr..

. V. R. Thornton

Direct

FBI

62 16395-121081

REC GU

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN IS UNCZASSIFIE

DATE 1O/30/00BY SBRALMKP

Reference is made to SSC letters dated December 4,

1975, and November 25, 1975, containing requests for materials

concerning Martin Luther King, Jr.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the SSC

1975, request.

Iso enclosed for your records is a copy of th

emorandum which is being delivered to you with the materia

which is being furnished to the SSC.

Enclosures (2)

. - The Deputy. Attorney Genera!

Attention:

Michae.

E. Shaheen, Jx.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

VRT: adn

1(9)

NOTE:

Copies of SSC letters 11/25/75 and 12/4/75 are

attached to the file copy of enclosed LHM.

Arrangements have

-bèen made for a representative of the Legal Counsel Division

tò deliver the attached memorandum as well as documents being

provided to the SSC. Copies of material being furnished to SSC

being retained,with Senstudy 75 Project.

THIN 3U3W.SF

when thr

hite

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm..-

Dep. AD Inv. I

Assr. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs.

Files & Com..

Gen. Inv..

Ident. -

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory -

Plon. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun. -

Telophone Rm. -

Director

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT E

NOW 48 MAP 8cld: 32789602 Page 54

Delivered to,

Coin

157

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 55

62-116395

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIFIEI

DATE 10/30/00 BY SPAALAKE

2 - Mx. J. A. Mintz

(1-Mx.

J. B. Hotis)

1

- Mr. W. R. Wannall

1

- Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. V. R. Thornton

January 14, 1976

J. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSG letter dated December 4, 1975,

Project and Sanitation Workers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee,

respectively.

The purpose of this nemorandum is to effect delivery

to the SSG of materials in response to referenced requests.

In respect to Iten 4 of the December 4, 1975, request,

the only indication of any action taken concerning the Iccommend-

ation contained in the pertinent memorandun dated March 49, 1900,

captioned,

"Counterintclligence Program, Black Nationalist-Hate

GrOUpS, Racial Intolligence (Martin

pencilled notation

initials wich are believed to be those of forner Special Agent

(SA) Harold P. Leinbaugh.

Among the documents being furnished

the SSC is a memorandum dated July 18, 1975, captioncd,

"Dr. Martin luther King, Jr.," along with supporting documents,

which were submitted to the Attorney General concerning back-

ground leading up to the proposed action reconmended in the

Narch 29, 1968, memorandum. It includes results of an inter-

view of Leinbaugh.

AA:

In response to Item 7c, the only indication of ony

Assoc. Dir. -

action taken concerning the suggestion (recommendation) con-

Dep. AD Adm. -

Lained in the nemorandum dated larch, 25, 1968, captioncd,

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

"Counterintelligence Program, Blach Nationalist-Hate Groups,

Admin. -

Racial Intelligence (Washington Spring Project)" is the pencilled

Comp. Syst. —

Ext. Affairs -

notation "Handled 4/4/68," appearing on page two of that memor

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

SA Leinbaugh.

Ident..

Bipm

Inspection _

Intell. .

VRI: adn @iris document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Laboratory

mintion potside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings l.

Plan. & Eval. -

war Commii re and the content may not be disclosed to unautiorized persor

Spoc. Inv. -

ill without the express approval of the FBI.

Training -

Legal Coun. _

Telephone Rm. -

Mutile

ORIGINAL AND ONE TO AG

worls,

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM I

TELETYPE UNIT O

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 55

ENCLOSURE (N2-1B-N

---

## Page 56

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(SSC)

With respect to Item 8c which concerns a memorandum

"Sanitation Workers Strike,

Memphis, Tennessee, Lacial Matters," the only indication of

action taken concerning the recommendation contained therein

I - The Attorney General

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 56

= 2=

---

## Page 57

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE NO 0018Y 582AMISP

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ULTR

XI LHM

[ Memo

• Report dated 1/14/76

Caption of Document: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

12/4/75 request Item 4

!

11/25/75 request Items 7c and 8C

FBI

1105/74

Delivered by:

Received by:

Dilen

Date:

Title: _

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 57

BEARSIR 62-116395 10118X

---

## Page 58

OTE: * SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

'BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check

appropriate

review but not transmitted,

tornot?! a document was made availablo

*/ DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY|

OTHER

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

2. DATE PROVIDED

1/14/76

SSC

HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive

data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee,

testifier and subject)

Memorandum and enclosures

& CLASEMETION Co Fer

Codewos TS or

SSC letter 12/4/75, Item 4 and SSC letter 11/25/75,

Items 7c and 8c

7. KEY WORDs (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed ar

ised underline for emphasis.

Operating Procedures

Information Handling

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Delivery of materisls regarding Martin luther King, Jr., and

the Washingion Spring Project and the Sanitation Workers Strike,

Memphis, Tennessee, respectively.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS ONCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/30/003YSPZALMICO

62-116395

AJD: 1hb

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75.

TREAT AS YELLOW

5. 0)

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

379| (6-75)

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 58

---

## Page 59

186-10019

INSTRUCTIONS •

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 59

---

## Page 60

SSC REQUEST

ITEM 4

12-4-75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS JUNCLASSIFIES

DATE 10/30/00 BYSPRALM E

Retain

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 60

62-114-15-1210X

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 61

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

106

Far 1902 EMITIAN

GEN GEN, REG. NO. 27

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. W. C. SullivaaD

DATE: March 29, 1968

FROM : G. C. Moore/Pr

Tolson

DeLoach

, Monr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale .

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

_ BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS

_RACIAL INTELLIGENCE

(MARTIN LUTHER KING)

ALL INFORMATAN CONTAINED 25046

HEREIN IS ENG

DATE L0/30/00 DYSCALMER I

PURPOSE:

To publicize hypocrisy or the part of Martin Luther

King.

BACKGROUND:

Martin Luther King has urged Negroes

Tennessee, to boycott white merchants in order to Memphis.

compliance with Negro demands in the sanitation workers'

wo a resto white is

strike in Memphis.

+=i

When violence broke out during the march King led

In Memphis on 3-28-68, King cisappeared.

There is a first

class Negro hotel in Memphis, the Hotel Lorraine, but King

chose to hide out at the white owned and operated Holiday Inr

Motel.

RECOMMENDATION:

The above facts have been included in the attached

biind memorandum and it is recommended 1t be turnished a

cooperative news media source by the Crime Records Division

Jor an item showing sing is a hypocrite.

This will be done on

a highly confidential basis.

Enclosure

5=102

TJD: ted

(7)

Cald

0K:98

Mr.

Mr.

MI.

-

MT.

MI.

-

Mr.

C.

T

W

G.

D.

T.

T?

D.

DeLoach

E.

Bishop

C.

Sullivan

C. Moore

Ryan (Mass Media)

J. Deakin

.E8

The bocunentis prepaned in response to your request and is not fol dissemi-

Commita

Its, use is limited to official proceecings ba

without

i ad the content may not be disctosed to unanthorized person T

espress approval of the FBI.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 61

---

## Page 62

March 29, 1968

DO AS I SAY, NOI AS I DO

Martin Luther King, during the sanitation workers'

strike i Memphis, Tennessee, has urged Negroes to boycott.

downtown white merchants to achieve Negro demands. On 3-29-68

King led a march for the sanitation workers.

Like Judas leading

lambs to slaughter King led the marchers to violence, and when

the violence broke out, king disappeared.

The fine Hotel Lorraine in Memphis is owned and

patronized exclusively by Negroes but King didn't go there

from his hasty exit.

Instead King decided the plush Holiday

Inn Motel, white owned, operated and almost exclusively white

patronized, was the place to "cool it."

There will be no

boycott of white nerchants for king, only for his followers.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE Y0/50051 BAL

166-elu: 006-93

CLOSURE

NW 886l4 Dold 52989682! Page 6201

---

## Page 63

14108-81

1 - J. B. Adams

• W.

R. Wannall

Ryan

REC 8!

=J: G. Deegan

#. +00-106670-3765 Suay 28,3979

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

1 - H. A. Newman

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/30/00 BY SPEANIE

The following Information is submitted regarding the

background leading up to the proposed action reconmended in

memorandum G. C. loore to Mir. W. C. sullivan dated March 29.

1900, captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist

Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence; (Martin Luther King)."

copy attached.

This memorandum recomnended that information be

furnished to a cooperative news media source by the Crime

Records Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)

showing King as a hypocrite.

This was to be based on the faci

that when violence broke out during a march led by King in

Memphis

vas a first class

but King chose to hide out in a white owned and operated

Holiday Inn Motel (also lown as the Rivermont Motel.).

nel without the express

A notation on the above referred to menorandum

Indicated that the recommendation was "handled" on April

1968, by kr. Harold P. Leinbaugh of the Crime Records Division.

(see notation on memorandum dated March 29, 1968, attached)

approval of

your committce and the content may

nation ostsite your Committee:

Its

This document is prepared in response

By way, of background it should be noted that at about

6 p.m. on April 4, 1960, while standing on second floor balcony

not

use

outside room 300 o1 the

Hotel Lorraine, Hemphis, tonnessee,

King was shot and killed.

Bl

be

i Memphis teletype dated April 2, 1968, reflects that

King and other Southern Christian Leadership Conference (ScLe)

ofticlals were que to arrive in Memphis at 10:15 a i. on

April 3, 1968, via Eastern Airlines from Atlanta.

(copy DI

Dep AD Iv: Momphis teletype dated April 2, 1968, attached)

After King's death, an interview with Reverend Ralph

Ext. Alloirs avid Abernathy, a close associate of King, reilected that he

disclosed to unauthorized

limited to

i. &c and King registered into the Hotel Iorraine in Hemphis,

Ident. -

Inspection -

cah

1212

person-

official proceerings

your request and is not for dissem

ria.

tell HAN: cah (8)

Laborolory

SEE NOTE PAGE 3

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Training -

ACLOSURE)

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

ROUTE

GPO: 19750- 560-080

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 63

She - lode

I.9

---

## Page 64

DI, Martin Luther King, J.

Lennestes, at about 10:30 a.Il. on April 3, 1968. (Information

See attached

Reverend Ralph

David Abernathy).

For turther background regarding the basis of this

proposal Atlanta telotype dated March 28, 1968, captioned

"Martin Iuther Kings

, SM-c" with second caption "Sanitation

Workers Strike, Hennhis,

that on March

room 601, Holiday Inn, Hemphis, Tennessee, at 4:30 p.ll. (coy

oi Atlanta teletypa attached.

A Memphis teletype dated March 29, 1968, captioned

workers on March 20, 1960.

When violence empted including

the prearing or windows and Looting by the marchers, king and

a few associates ran to a nearby car and left the march

proceeding to Rivermont Motel where they remained through the

afternoon and evening. (copy of Memphis teletype attached)

On July 17, 1975, Mr. Harold P. Leinbaugh, after

having had all the facts set out above reviewed with him

including the fact his notation of "handled" appeared on

the

March 29, 1960

that he cannot now recall whether or not proposed information

swas ever disseminatea to any news media source. Ho indicated

that his notation "handled" would not necessarily mean thai

The did disseminate this information.

In explaining this he

stated that the notation could mean that ho was merely clearing

this document through Crime Records Division and at this late

date there would be absolutely no way that he could make any

positive statoments as to whether or not the informetion

reconnended was ever disseminated to a news media source.

Tron the above recorded sequence of ovents as

reflecied in various commnications identified above, lt 15

evident that King returned to Memphis, Tennessee, from Atlanta

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 64

231 70.

---

## Page 65

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

on April 3, 1968, and checked Into the Hotel Iorraino at

approximately 10:30 a.Il. The notation indicating that the

proposed furnishing of information to the news media was

"handled" on April 3, 1968, Would, of course, preclude any

such information from appearing in the press prior to King's

chocking into the Hotel Lorraine at approximately 10:30 2.u.

on April 3, 1900.

A review of appropriate files maintained at FBI

Headquarters lails to reflect any newspaper article which

could have been an outgrowth of the proposed recommendation

contained in the G.

Co Micore memoranäum to Mr. W. C. Sullivan

dated March 29, 1968.

A review of the "Hemphis Commercial Appeal" for the

period March 28 to April 4, 1968, maintained on microfilm in

the Library of Congress failed to reflect any articlo which

would appear to be an outgrowth of the proposed recommendation

contained in t. C. Moore memorandum to Mr. W. C. sullivan

weated March 29, 1960.

References were noted indicating that

"King held a press conference at the Holiday Inn Rivermont

Motel on March 29, 1968.

• Enclosures (5)

NOTE:

See memorandum J. G. Deegan to Mr. W. R. Wannall,

dated 7/18/75, captioned as above, prepared by HAN/cah.

the 3

-NW-88614_Docld:32989602. Page 65

---

## Page 66

Memorandum

: Mr. W. C. Sullivàb?

OM : Go C. Moore/lu

BECT: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE

(MARTIN LUTHER KING)

DATE: March 29, 1968

•ian, : !'

Tawd!.

Trotter

Tele. Pee=

Holmes -

Gandy

EREIN ISZONGLASSIRE

DATE 1013 00 BIA505

up ebay le

PURPOSE:

To publicize hypocrisy on the part of Martin Luther

King.

BACKGROUND:

Martin Luther King has urged Negroes in Memphis,

Tennessee, to boycott white merchants in order to force

compliance with Negro demands in the sanitation workers'

strike in Memphis.

When violence broke out during the march King led

in Memphis on 3-28-68, King disappeared.

There is a first

nel without the express

class Negro hotel in Memphis, the Hotel

Lorraine, but Kings

chose to hide out at the white owned and operated Holiday Inn

Motel.

nation outsite your Committee.

RECOMMENDATION:

nf

The above facts have been included in the attached

blind memorandum and it is recommended it be furnished a

Its use

This document is prepared in response to

cooperative news media source by the Crime Records Division o

Enclosure

(7)

hir.

siX.

C

T

Mr.

MI.

Go

D

T.

THO

D.

DeLoach

E. Bishop

C. Sullivan

C. Moore

Ryan (Mass Media)

J. Deakin

OK: 18

REC-20. /

LVeet93

iNÁ 11 1503

nothin

186670-1369

S160

100-448006-93

SRCLOSIREE

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 66

1210

and is

not for

dissemi-

official

' unauthorized

5'

---

## Page 67

sarch 29, 1968

DO AS I SAY, NOT AS I DO

Martin Luther King,

during the sanitation workers?

strike in Memphis, Tennessee,

has urged Negroes to boycott

downtown white merchants to achieve Negro demands. On 3-29-68

King led a march for the sanitation workers. Like Judas leading

lambs. to slaughter King led the marchers to violence, and when

the violence broke out, king disappeared.

The fine Hotel Lorraine in Memphis is owned and

patronized exclusively by Negroes but King didn't go there

from his hasty exit.

Instead King decided the plush Holiday

Inn Motel, white owned, operated and almost exclusively white

patronized, was the place to "cool it."

There will be no

boycott of white merchants for king, only for his followers.

ALL 'INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S/UNGLASSIFIED

DATE 10/30/00 BY SPEALMP

-SLOSURE

NW 88614 Docid'32989602 Page 67

nota..?

R52375

---

## Page 68

FBI WASH DO

FBI. MEMPHIS

130PM-ÜRGENT 4-2-68 SAB

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MEMPHIS 157-1092

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFED

DATE 1030/00 BY/SPJALMI

1:.

2115:0

3P

SANITATION WORKERS STRIKE, MEMPHIS, TEWN.,

RAciAl mAtter

he Pire

Tippier

ON APRIL THO, NINETEEN SIXTY EIGHT, LT. E. He ARKIN, MEMPHIS

FE..

XESPECTIONAL BUREAU, ADVISED THAT THE FUNERAL OF LARRY PAYNE,

SEVENTEEN YEAR OLD NEGRO WHO WAS SHOT BY MEMPHIS PO OFFIGER

AFTER, STORE LOOTING GROWING OUT OF MARCH IWENTY EIGHT RACIAL

Socie

DISTURBANCE, MEMPHIS, WAS HELD, WITHOUT INCIDENT, AT CLAYBORN

TEMPLE, MEMPHIS. ABOUT FIVE HUNDRED IN ATTENDANCE DESPITE FACI

CHURCH CAN SEAT TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED. BODY INTERRED IMMEDIATELY

AFTER FUNERAL. ARKIN ADVISED THAT ANOTHER SANITATION.

WORKERS SYMPATHY MARCH IS

CHEDULED FOR DOWNTOWN MEMPHIS AFTERNOON

00-

OF APRIL IWO.

116670-

NOT RECORDUD

EASTERN AIRLINES ADVISED ON APRIL IWO THESE REY GMABTIN LUTHER

-KING, JR., AND SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SOLE) AIDES

RALPH D. ABERNATHY, BERNARD LEE, AND ANDREW M. YOUNG DUE IQ ARRIVE

MEMPHIS TEN FIFTEEN A.M., APRIL THREE, FROM ATLANTA.

END

•PAGE ONE

C. Hagsen

APR

EE Uns doments prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

"or Committee.

Its use is timited to atival merengs li,

Tacluded - lettER to Whitenousen

find the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

and Attorsey. General.

Date whout and express approval of the FBI

W: 88614. Docld 32989602 Page 68

---

## Page 69

ON APRIL TWO A SOURCE ADVISED THAT AT A PRESS CONFERENCE AT

CLAYBORN TEMPLE, APRIL TWO, REV. JESSE JACKSON OF SCLE'S "OPERATION

- BREAD BASKET," REV. S. B. KYLES OF METROPOLITAN BAPTIST CHURCH,

NEMPHIS, AND REV. EDWARD L. BROWN, MI. PISGAH GME CHURCH, ADVISED

THAT WITH SCLE PERSONNEL IN MEMPHIS THAT NIGHTLY MASS STRIKE

SUPPORT MEETINGS WILL BE RESUMED, THE FIRSI AT MASON TEMPLE ON

•NIGHT OF APRIL THREE WITH KING AS FEATURED SPEAKER. THEY SAID

MASS MARCH WILL BE HELD FRIDAY, APRIL FIVE, AND THAI THEY WILL

HAVE SCHOOL CHILDREN PARTICIFATE SINCE MARCHING WITH "MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR., THE GREATEST LIVING AMERICAN," WOULD BE MORE EDUCATIONAL

THAN BEING IN SCHOOL, WHEN ASKED BY PRESS IF KING WOULD PERSONALLY

MARCH, JACKSON SAID KING MIGHI NOT MARCH. HE DID NOT ELABORATE.

WHEN ASKED IF SCLE GROUP WOULD VIOLATE A POSSIBLE INJUNCTION

AGAINST: THEIR MARCHING, JACKSON SAID "THE WHITE MAN HAS ALREADY

ENJOINED THE BLACK MAN IO IHE GHETTO AND THE WHITE MAN DOESN'I

NEED TO VALIDATE II, BY SENDING US A PIECE OF PAPER." KYLES SAID THE

PROBLEM FACING MEMPHIS IS NOT MILITANI BLACK YOUIK BUT IS

' '"WHILE RACISM." JACKSON DESCRIBED OPERATION BREAD BASKET AS MASSIVE

END PAGE TWO

_NW-88614_Docld:32989602, Page,69:

---

## Page 70

DRIVE TO PORCE ALL GROCERS IN NEGRO AREA TO CEASE SELLING HARI'S

BREAD, WONDER BREAD, COCA COLA,. AND SEALTESI DAIRY PRODUCIS

AS THESE. FIRMS DO NOT HIRE SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF NEGROES.

ON APRIL IWO LT.. ARKIN ADVISED THAT MEMPHIS CITY OFFICIALS ARE

CONSIDERING SEEKING A COURT INJUNCTION PROHIBITING ANY MASS MARCH

LED BY KING OR AN INJUNCIION SPECIFYING CONDIJIONS UNDER WHICH A MARCH

COULD TAKE PLACE AND ALSO CONSIDERING RESUMPTION OF A CURFEW AND

PLACING STRIKE SUPPORT LEADERS UNDER A PEACE AND FINANCIAL

RESPONSIBILITY BOND:

ARÄIN ADVISED THAI REMAINDER OF TENNESSEE NATIONAL GUARD,

WITH EXCEPTION OF ONE BATTERY CONSISTING OF TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY

• THREE OFFICERS AND MEN OF THE MEMPHIS GUARD UNIT. HAVE LEFT MEMPHIS.

AT THREE ZERO FIVE PM, SIXTY SANITATION WORKERS AND SYMPATHIZERS

DEPARTED GLAYBORN TEMPLE CARRYING PLACARDS FOLLOWING THEIR USUAL.

‚PARÁDE MARCH TO BEALE STREET NORIH ON MAIN JO CITY HALL. NO

INCIDENTS REPORTED.

meino

P. END:

C'=

60÷1155

c..

• 8.0

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 70

---

## Page 71

FD-302 (Rev:

4-15-6181

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ERLIN

• UNCLASSIFIED

ATE/0/30/00 BYSPRAUMA

Kaish

Date

April 8, 1968

Reverend RALPE DAVID ABERNATHY,

690 La Verne Drive, N. H.,

Atlanta. Ceorgia,

was interviewed as the Memphis Police Department

at 10:55

P, illa,

• April 4, 1969.

Reverend ABERNATHY was advised of

the Agent's identity and of the nature of the matter under investiga-

tion.

Reverend AFERNATEY,

#no described himself as Vice President

at large and Treasurer of

the southere

Christian Leadership

Conference, stated he mas DI. KARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 's closest

associate and siated that he and Di. XiNG always

shared a room

• ..

whenever they travelled together. He stated that at about 10:30 a.m.

on April 3, 1968, he and DI. KING registered

at the Lorraine Motel,

Heyhis, Tennessee.

Reverend

I ABERNATHY stated that on April 4, 1968, he and Dr.

KING did not leave the motel and spent most of the day

in their

root, 1306, whisk is located on thr necond flnor of the motal.

He stated

that he and Dr. KING had been gore from their room for

approximately one hour or less then they returned to the room at

about 5:30 p.Ili.

He said they got dressed as

they were going to

dinner at the home of Reverend BILLY KYLE and that at almost exactly •

6 p.m. they started to leave the room.

RevErend ABERNATHY stopped

•fox a moment and Dr. KING talked out onto the balcony just outside

the door to his roon. Reverend ABERNATHY was still inside the

motel roon but could hear Dr. KING discussing the dinner engagement

with other associates mio Reverend ABERNATHY believes were standing

In the parking area of the notel underneath and to the front of the

balcony on Fhich Dr. KING was standing.

Reverend ABEPNATHY stated he heard what sounded like a fire-

cracker and then heard the screans of versons to whom dr. KING had

been talking.

REVErELd AEERNATHY Rent then to the balcony and dis-

covered Dr. KiNG lying there founded in the right side of the face

and neck.

He said he believad De. KINd attempted to speak to him

but was unable to do so:

REvErEnd ASERNATEY said he instructed

someone to call an ambulance and then accompanied Dr. KING in the

ambulance to the hospital there Dr. KING subsequently died.

'This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

muon outsive your Commiee.

Its use as limited to official proceedings by

your Committre and the content soy not be disclosed to unauthorized person,

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

On

4/4/68

lenphis, Tennessee

_ File # Memphis 44-1987

by SA JOE C. FESTER: bo

_Date dictated _ 4/8/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

NW 88614Docid:32985602 age ofp not to be distributed outside your agency.

the war"

---

## Page 72

2

His 794-1897

Reverend ABERNATHY stated that judging from the sound

of the noise it appeared that the shot came irom directly in

front of the door and not from any great distance.

He stated

he did not observe anything thet sould indicate tho fired the

shot.

Reverend ABERNATEY also stated that while they were in

the motel room DI. KING did not, to his knowledge, receive any

telephone calls of a threatening nature or calls from persons

who would not identify themselves.

Reverend ABERNATHY said

Dr, KING had not feared that any particular persons might

harm him and Reverend ABERNATHY HaS unable to suggest any

suspects or to provide any other intornation which might

assist in identifying Dr. KING's killer.

49

_NW-88614_dacld:32989602 Page 72 *17%

---

## Page 73

11:XTPW URGENT: 3-28-68 ARK

DIRECTOR (102-106676) AND MEMPHIS

FROM ATLANIA (120-5586)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

Mr. Trann

Ali. Tolls

-

Mir. Bardid

-o-

Mr. Bi: lop

Mr. Caj por

Tir.

fiiwmn..o

Air.

Cretti?

dl:. tolt ..

sir. Gale

hi toll roll

fir. Tarol

Mr. inter

T... lion

?..s 1l.i1l0s.

Hiiss Gands.

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., SM-C.

SANITATION WORKERS STRIKE, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE.

RM•

IN FORARNE

D. after

AF ONE THREE EIGHT SEVEN-A FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION

AT FOUR THIRTY PM MARCH IWENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHI •

INFORMANT'S

#FORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM DISCUSSION SHORTLY

BEFORE WITH HOSEA

WILLIAMS, DIRECTOR OF VOTER REGISTRATION AND

POLITICAL EDUCATION, SCLE, CURRENILY IN ATLANTA, WHO DURING LATE

AFTERNOON MARCH IWENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHI, CONFERRED TELEPHONICALLY

WITA MARIIN LUTHER KING, JR., PRESIDENT, SCLES RALPH

•ABERNATHY,

VICE PRESIDENT AND IEASURER._SCLC; AND BERNARD DEE, SPECIAL AIDE

FO THE PRESIDENT, SCLC..

KING, ABERNATHY, AND LEE ARE CURRENTLY IN ROOM EIGHI ZERO ONE,

HOLIDAY INN, MEMPHIS®

•.

WITH REFERENCE TO RACIAL DIJTURBANCE IN MEMPHIS MARCH

TWENTYEIGHT, SIXIYEIGHT, KING IS EXTREMELY DEJECTED. HE AND

ABERNATHY STRONGLY FEEL DISTURBANCE ON THIS DATE DELIBERATELY PLANNED

•EX-115,

TREG-4

1: 106:1-3278

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

APP 15 100G

nation artsids. roy. Committee.

your Commi.

nel without the express approval of the FBI

N 88614 Doc|d:32989602 Page 73

---

## Page 74

PAGE TWO

BY NEGROES WHO ARE NEITHER SYMPATHETIC TO KING OR SCLC. IDENTITY

ABERNATHY, LEE AND WILLIAMS ARE GREATLY CONCERNED FOR

WELFARE OF KING, PARTICULARLY ON NIGHI OF MARCH IWENTYEIGHT,

SIXTYEIGHT. WHEN HE EXPECIS TO PARIICIPATE IN MARCH OR DEMONSIRATION

• WITH SANITATION WORKERS. AT PRESENT TIME KING DOES NOI FEEL HE SHOULD

LEAVE MEMPHIS. DURATION OF SIAY AND FURTHER DETAILS IN THIS

CONNECTION NOT KNOWN.

ACCORDING TO WILLIAMS, HE, ABERNATHY, AND LEE STRONGLY FEEL

SAME ELEMENTS WHICH CAUSED DISIURBANCE IN MEMPHIS EARLIER MARCH

TWENTYZIGHI MAY CAUSE PERSONAL HARM TO KING EVENING OF MARCH

TWENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHI•

INFORMATION FROM AT ONE THREE EICHT SEVEN-I MUST BE CLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL. MEMPHIS, HOWEVER, SHOULD ADVISE LOCAL AUTHORITIES IF

NET ALREADY KNOWN THAT KING CONTEMPLATES PARIICIPAIING IN MARCH OR

DEMONSTRATION EVENING OF MARCH TWENIYEIGHI AND THAT IN VIEW OF EARLIER

DISTURBANCES IN MEMPHIS ON IHIS DATE, SEVERAL RANKING SCLO OFFICIALS

APFREHENSIVE FOR PERSONAL WELFARE OF KING.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 74

---

## Page 75

sis.

PAGE THREE

FOREGOING INFORMATION TELEPHONICALLY FURNISHED MEMPHIS MARCH

TWENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHT •

RECEIVED:

11:39PM RM

читай

VW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 75

---

## Page 76

FBI HASH DE

WAS NO JU

To. Callate.

ir.

Carend.

fait

FBI MEMPHIS

125 GAM URGENT 3-20 - 68 DEB

IO DIRECTOR

Trices

Iec.

2:2r6a

FROM MEMPHIS (157-1094)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CREIN LO UNCLASSIFIE

ATE/0 3000 BY SPa AMKY

SANITATION WORKERS SLATE, ANSTS, TAMESSIE, A PAciA MAT A

RE

MEMPHIS TELS, MAROY TUENTY EIGHI, NINETEEN SIXTY EIGHT

FOLLOWING IS SUMMARY OF MARCH IVENTY EIGHT ACTIVITIES;

Of MARCH IWENTY EIGHI, LI. E. HO ARKIN, INSPECTIONAL BUREAU

MEMPHIS POITCE DEPIA.

ADVISED THAT THE MASS MARCH IO BE LED BY

without

REV. MARTIN LUTHER KINGS JROS IN SUPPORI OF SANITATION WORKERS

•your Committee

nation outside

This document

stanise

STARTED AT AROUND ELEVEN AM CST WITH ESTIMATED FIVE IOSIX

empress

THOUSAND WORKERS, MANY OF WHOM WERE NEGRO TEENAGERS. MARCH

.

STARTED AI CLAYBORN TEMPLE, LOCATED HEART OF NEGRO AREA, AND

KING JOINED MARCH AFTER II PROGRESSED ONE BLOCK. HE WALKED WITHE

tent may

tee.

, response

MARCHERS TO VICINITY BIALE AND MAIN STREETS, MADE NO SPEECHES

the

not

Its usefs

to:

PRIOR TO MARCH, MADE NO KNOWN UTTERANCES DURING MARCH, AND EY

TIME HE REACHED ABOVE POINT RAMPANT BREAKING OF STORE WINDÖWS APR

osed

ated to

AND LOOTING WAS BEING PERPETRATED BY MARCHERS, WHERZUPON KING

AND A FEV ASSOCIATES RAN TO A NEARBY CAR AND LEFT MARCH, PROCEEDE

IO RIVERNOUT MOTEL WHERE THEY REMAINED. THROUGH AFTERNOON AND

unauthorizeliperson

official

you?request and is not foo

EVENENe.?

BY MOON, POLICE HAD. BROKEN UP CROWD, BEING FORCED IO

S

TEATGAS, EUE SPORADIC LOOTING LAS CONTINUED THROUCH AFTERNOON

IC lic Pitacluded 1a lottoo to Maito Douço

ICC A GA End attornog General. Dato 212

MON REGORDED

105.0777 put

os: 162-APR -4-1958

NW S86QA All 326960808ge 76

---

## Page 77

PAGE TWO

AND EVENING, PRIMARILY CONFINED IO SOUTY CENTRAL AREANCIEMPHIS,

A PREDORINANTLY NEGRO AREA, RIMARY IARGET OF LOOTERS BEING.

LIQUeRSTORES AND SMALL GROGERIES.

TENNESSEE SIATE LEGISLATURE TODAY PASSED CURFEW BILL, WKICH

WAS INVOKEESY MEMPHIS MAYOR HENRY LOEB, EFFECTIVE SEVEN PM,

AND THIRTY FIVE HUNDRED TENNESSEE NATIONAL GUARDSMEN FROM MEMPHIS

AND WEST TENNESSEE ARE CURRENTLY ON DUTY IN MEMPHIS OPERATING AS

TACTICAL UNIIS, BEING ACCOMPANIED JU THEIR PATROLS BY REPRESENIATIVES

LOF MEMPHIS PD.

SCHEDULED MASS RALLY TO FEATURE KCKS NIGHT OF MARCH IWENTY

EIGHI CANCELED. AT IWELVE MIDNIGHT, MARCH IWENTY EIGHT, THREE

HUNDRED® ARRESTS, PRIMARILY RELATING TO LOOTING AND CURFEW VIOLATIONS

KAVE BEEN MADE BY POLICE DEPI. FOUR INDIVIDUALS

HAVE BEEN SHOI, ONE OF IRESE, A SIXTEEN YEAR OLD BOY, WAS KILLED

IN ACI OF LOOTING A SIORE.. THREE OTHERS WERE SHOI, IWO BY

POLICE OFFICERS AND ONE BY A SIORENEZPER WHILE LOOTING, NONE

SERICUSLY INJURED.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 77

---

## Page 78

AGE THREE

EASTERN AIRLINES ADVISED TRAI KING, RALPH ASERNATHY, AND

BERNARD LEE, FAILED TO LEAVE MEMPHIS ON EASTERN FLIGHT THREE

NINE EIGHI, NINE ZERO FIVE CSI, DUE TO ARRIVE ATLANIA ELEVEN

¡ZERO THREE PM EST. THIS ALSO CANCELS KING'S AND

LEE'S FLIGHT

FROM ATLANTA SIX TWENTY AM MARCH IWENTY NINE DUE TO

ARRIVE BALTIMORE SEVEN FORTY IWO AM. INSPECTOR• G. P. TINES,

MEMPHIS PD, ADVISED KING PLANNING IO STAY IN MEMPHIS AT

RIVERMONI HOTEL IONIGHI, FUTURE PLANS UNKNOWN AT PRESENT

TIME. P.

MINE, LIN ME WORDS EIGHT NINE: AND TEN

SHLD BE AREA. OF MEPHISTAND LINE IWO,PARA ONE, WORD SIVS

SHALD-EE RINARY

PACE THE PARA THREE, LINE ONE VORD SIX SHLD BE "KING" AND LINE THREE

WORD

-PARCE SALD SERPRIMARILAND A PERIOD SHLD BE BETWEEN

"DEPT." AND FOUR" ONEXXX-ON LINE FOUR.

PAGE SUO-PETA ONE LINE THREE WORD ONE SHLD BE LIQUOR"

END.

HFL

POI WASH DE CAN MI There

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 78

---

## Page 79

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

' MAY 1PGZ EDITION

OSA GES, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES L

ERNMENT

Assoc. Dir.

Memorandum

1 - Mr.

J.

B. Adams

Dep. AD AÊT

Dop. ADRA

1 - Mr.

W.

R. Wannall

Assi. Dish

1 - Mr.

D. Ryan

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

TO

:Mr. W. R. Wannall

DATE:

7/18/75

Ext. Affoirs

Files & Com. -

Gon. Iny. -

Ident.

FROM : J. G. DeeganT6)

1 - Mr.

J.

1-

Mr.

н.

G.

Deegan

Inspaction

A. Newman

Lob torn

Legal Coun. _

SUBJEGT: DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Plan. & Eval. -

HEREIN 13 UNCLASSIFIED

Spoc. Inv. —

DATE /0/30/00 BY SPaALMKY

Training -

Tolophono Rm. -

Director Soc'y -

During a conference on 7/16/75 between the Assistant

Attorney General

J. Stanley Pottinger, and his staff and the

Director of the FBI and his staff, a question arose concerning

Martin Luther King's alleged moving from one hotel or motel to

another hotel or motel in Memphis, Tennessee, prior to his murder

on 4/4/68.

Attached is a letterhead memorandum (LHM) setting forth

an inquiry including a review of all appropriate Bureau files

regarding a proposal

made in memorandum G. C. Moore to Mr. W. C.

Sullivan dated 3/29/68 in connection with the counterintelligence

program wherein it was recommended that information be made

available to a cooperative news media source showing King to be

a hypocrite.

This was to be based on the fact that when violence

broke out during a march led by King in Memphis, Tennessee, or

3/28/68, he disappeared.

There was a first class Negro hotel

in Memphis, the Hotel Lorraine

, but King chose to hide out in

a white owned and operated Holiday Inn Motel (also known as the

Rivermont Motel).

The LHM will reflect and document the fact

that although a notation appears on the memorandum that it was

"handled" there is no information available to reflect that it

was ever actually given to a cooperative news source.

Mr. Harold

P. Leinbaugh (retired), who placed the notation "handled" on the

document, absolutely has no recollection of this matter nor can

ne state Whether or not the an oratin a dia ta do =

The time elements as documented

preclude the proposal contained in the 3/29/68 memorandum of

having any affect upon King's cnoice of a motel In-which to reside.

RECOMMENDATION:

KO JUL 29 1975

That the attached IHM along with attachments.be..

disseminated to the Department.

nation a'tsi??,

Pie documen i needed in response ne

your committee.

call

HAN : cah (6)

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

LNW-88614 Docld:32989602 Page 79'

Delineed s122h5

irpr

---

## Page 80

SSC REQUEST

ITEM

11-25-75

7C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Retten

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 80

...

---

## Page 81

OPTIONAL FARM NO, 10

EMAY 41902 ECATION

GSA. GEN, KEG. NO, 27

UNITED, STATES Gr

#MENT

Memorandum

TO

:Mr. W. C. Sullivah

FROM : G. C. Moored l M1

SUBJECT:

COUNTERIN IALLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE

(WASHINGTON SPRING PROJECT)

DATE: March 26, 1968

eLoac

Casper

Callahan

Contad a

Felt.

•Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

PURPOSE:

.

To recommend item be furnished cooperative national

news media source by Crime Records, designed to curtail

success of Martin Luther King's fund raising for the Washington

Spring Project.

1:7

nel

BACKGROUND:

Martin Luther King has

now scheduled the Washington

Spring Project, his "poor people's march on Washington, D. C., '

lour Committce

for the latter part of April, 1968.. King's organization, the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) has sent out a

mailing to 70,000 potential financial contributors. King

express

asked these 70,000 to contribute to the Washington Spring

Project for the feeding and housing of the marchers.

nation outside your Committee.

it the dame time, arenade the lashington D. co,

area have said they will feed and house King's marchers.

SUGGESTION:

BEC-D 812405

That the above facts be given a cooperative news

source by the Crime Records Division so that a story could be

I.g'f

REG 36

100-44200L

{'")

•E APR 9

1968

IBI

Its use

This document is prepared in response

not

your

- Mr. DeLoach

1

- Mr. W. C. Sullivan

1

- Mr. Bishop

1

-: Mr. G. C. Moore

1

-Mr.

D. M. Wells

1 - Mr. T. J. Deakin

Anclosures

IJD: df/dsm (7) 64

EX 106

5÷

disclosed to unauthorizea persou

request and is

not for dussem

CONTINUED - OVER

W 88614mBocld: 32989602 Page,81

777:

19 FoOT

---

## Page 82

Memorandum to Mr, Sullivan

RE: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

given nation-wide circulation that King does not need

contributions from the 70,000 people he solicited. Since

purposes. This item would need nation-wide circulation

in order to reach all the potential contributor's and

curtail their donations. A sample item is attached.

ACTION:

That the facts about King's solicitation of

funds unnecessarily be given a cooperative news source

by the Crime Records Division,

wie.

• Ate sued 4/0/68

•2.

NW 88614 Qgeld:32989602 Paga,8?

Then

---

## Page 83

Martin Luther King, Jr., President of the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), today finds himself

in the embarrassing position of having

too much money, or at

least the probability of too much money. The SCLC sent out a

huge mailing to its contributors pleading for funds for the

Hashington Spring. project, the "poor people's march on?

Washington."

Thousands of conctibutors were urged to support

the march linancially in order to feed and house the demon-

strators. But the churches in the Washington, D. C., area

nave offered to house and feed the demonstrators.

Now the contributions are beginning to roll in from

the mailing and King doesn't need the money.

An embarrassment

Of riches has befallen king, who will only use the money for

other purposes. The churches had better come through with

all the housing and support the demonstrators need, because

there will b? little money left for the "poor people" by the

time the march rolls around.

помалінти

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE 10/30/00 BY SR3ALMKS

100448006-85

NW.88614 Docld:32989602 Page 83 up

---

## Page 84

SSC REQUEST 11-25-75

IT'EM SC

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE 10130S SPRAK

Retain

NW 88614

Docld:32989602 Page 84

---

## Page 85

"tai

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

••OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1863 'EDITION

AGSA GEN, RIO. NO. 17

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Sullivan

i Go C. Moorehan

SANITATICIN WORKERS STRIKE

MEMPHIS, TENNESSEES

RACIAL MATTERS

DATE: 3/28/68

Tolson

DeLeach

Easts:

Coil si m

Conro:

Felt

Tro'ter

Teie. Room

Holnes

Gardy.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

A sanitation workers strike has been going on in

Memphis for some time. Martin Luther King, JI., today led a.

march composed of

5,000 to 6,000 people through the streets

of Memphis. King was in an automobile preceding the marchers.

As the march developed, acts of violence and vandalism broke

out including the breaking of windows in stores and some

looting.

This clearly demonstrates that acts of so-called

nonviolence advocated by King cannot be controlled. The same

thing could happen in his planned massive civil disobedience

for Washington in April.

REC: 19.

107 ce

ACTION:

SEE + EX-105

151-

9146-39

5 APR

2 1968.

Attached is a blind memorandum pointing out the

above, which if you approve, should be made available by

JARTOORDED COPY FILED IN/GI.

Crime Records Division to cooperative news media sources.(omi

/Enclosure

/ ENCLOSURE

confinett

TDR: fhd (6)

1 - Mr. DeLoach

ЕSC-0.9:2406

wief.

1

Sullivan

1

Mr. Bishop

off

Mr., G. C. Moore

1

MI•

Deakin

This document is prepared in response to

your request and is not for dissemi-

co your Comani!

TET without

10

RACIN

There

AW G867205696&2989602 Page 85

A,85

---

## Page 86

'Martin Luther King, JI., President of the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, injected himself into the

sanitation workers' strike in Memphis, Tennessee, and the

result of King's famous espousal ci nonviolence was vandalism,

looting, and riot.

Previously, King involved himself in this strike,

called for a general

strike, and called for a mass march.

Today he led the mass march

in an automobile at the head of

the line. Negroes began shouting "black power" and trouble

began. King, apparently unable or unwilling to control the

marchers, absented himself from the scene; window breaking and

looting broke out.

Police officers were forced to use gas to break up

the march and to control the crowd. It was necessary to

activate the National Guard. Martin Luther King claims his

much-heralded march on Washington, scheduled for April 22,

1968, will also be "nonviolent."

He says heshas persuaded

militant black nationalists to abandon violent extremism in

Washington, D. C., during the march. • Memphis may only be the

prelude to civil strife in our Nation's Capitol.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

GAR 0/3000 0 S2AEMKA

XEROX

1968

157-9146-38

ENCLOSURE

157::

12: 1

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 86

---

## Page 87

1 4:

navin, in, trail.

to Parred rosa, aliens,

HрM.0:9С.

матнелсі ля.ма.

MICMADD8.SCHWRIAET.PA.

WILLIAM O, MILLIO, STATE DIATCTER

PACIERICA A, O, SCHMANI, IN, CHINA CINNIEL

QUATIAM, AMOTMENS, MINOMITY ECUNSCE.

127

Waited Stales Sciate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMINTAL DILRATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTILLIGENCE ACTIVITIIS

(H584015 10 8. 143-11, 4TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

November 25, 1975

-le

Michael E. Shaheen, Esq:

Special Loinsel for Intelligence

Coordination

Office of the Deputy Attorney General

U. S. Department of Justice

• Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:

I would appreciate your making available to the

Committee the following items in connection with our

investigation of the King matter:

I. All memoranda and any other materials which

pertain

to contacts, conversations or meetings between

one Val Coleman and Special Agent Hazold Linebaugh or

any other FBI Heädquarters officials concerning tartin

Iuther King, ür., during November or December of 1964.

-

2. All memoranda and any other materials which

pertain to contacts, conversations or meetings between

any FBI Headquarters officials and any representatives of

the news media concerning Martin Luther king, ft, during

November or December of 1964.

3. All memoranda and any other materials which

pertain to a meeting between Ralph Abernathy and either

FBI Director Hoover or Cartha DeLoach during December

2964 Or January 1965 (other than the December 1, 1964

meeting which was attended by DI. King and the January 11,

1965 meeting which was attended by Andrew Young) . .

4. All memoranda and any other materials which

pertain to the following statement which appears in the

second paragraph of the September 11, 1964 memorandum

from Mr. F. J. Baumgardner to Mr. H. C. Sullivan, captioned

"Martin Luther. King, JJ., Security Matter - Communist":

1D.

UE6 2 1313

ALE SEI INFORMATION CONTAINAD

DATE 10 3005131872MKP

t2-116-375-12108

NW 88614

Doc

i02

Page 87

---

## Page 88

Michael E. Shaheen

• Lage

November 25;

1975

On that occasion Assistant Director

DeLoach's office was able to take

appropriate action to forestall the

publication of the article.

5. The 7/16/64 memorandum from Mr. Baumgardner to

Mr. Sullivan which is notec in handwriting at the bottom

of the second page of the July 15, 1964 memorandum from

Ms. Baumgarder to Mr. Sullivan, captioned "Communist

Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial

Matters, Internal Security - Conmunist."

6. With respect to the March 29, 1968 memorandum,

with enclosure,

from G.

• C. Moore to Mr. . C. Sullivan,

captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist

- Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence (Martin Luther King)"

please provide:

Access to original of this memoranaum

and its enclosure;

D.

Access to all extant "tickler" and/any

other copies of this memorandum and its attachment

in their original forn;

c: All memoranda and any other materials

which pertain to, bear upon, of indicate any

actions taken parsuant to or in connection with

the recommendation contained in this memorandum.

fthis-should-include-any_and all information

radauced..collected.-and/.orprepared in connection

-with. James-Adams'. testimony-on-this.subject.

-before-the senate select committee of Noverber 12r

2-975-

d. All memoranda and any other materials

received from FBI field offices or written at

FBI Meadquarters prior to and pertaining to the

recommendation contained in the March 29, 1968

memorandum.

With respect to the memorandum with enclosure,

from W. C. MoDIe to Mr. W. C. Sullivan, dated March 26,

1968, captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Black

Nationalist - Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence (Washinaton

Spring Project)" please provide the access

and/or materials

requested in a, b, c, and d of Item 6 above.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 88

---

## Page 89

a Shaneen

• November 25

975

8. With respect to a memorandum with enclosure,

from G. C. Moore to Mr. Sullivan, dated 3/28/68, captioned

•sanitation horkers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee,

Racial

Matters," please provide the access and/or materials

requested in a, b, c, and d of Item 6 above.

9. Responses to Items 6, 7, and 8 should include

copies of all neuspaper clippings or magazine articles

contained in EBI files which

contain information set forth

the memuranda and/or enclosures identified in Items

6, 7, and. 8 above.

Sincerely,

/ John I.

Ellift

Director

Domestic Intelligence Task Force

NW 88614. Docld: 32989602 Page 89

---

## Page 90

„Lil

wad:

1182

attalio

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

• December 1, 1975

TO:

Miles ROM:

SUBJECT:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

regal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Michael E. Shaheen, JI.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

Senate Select Committee Reques:

Attached is a letter from

1 the Senate Select

Committee dated November 25, 1975, requesting varIous

information regarding the king matter.

Please prepare

an appropriate response to this request.

CC:

Paul Daly

-X-110}

BEC-60

62+16395-12104

7 MAR 5 1976

ARE MEI INFORALATION COMBAINED

DANE 10 3000.32

ENW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 90

---

## Page 91

4312 (Rev. 12-11-73)

Date of Mail

11/28/75

Has been removed and placed in the Special File Room of Records Section.

See File 66-2554-7530 for authority.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/30/00 BY SP2ALMKP

Subject

JUNE MAIL

SENSTUDY

Removed By

File Number

7 9 JAN 1 1976

62-116395-1210

Permanent Serial Charge Out

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 91

---

## Page 92

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

1 - Mr.

A. Mintz

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore

December 9, 1975

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN VE GUCLASSIFIED

DATEL,30/00 BY SPALMKP

Enclosed is the original of a memorandum, with attach

ment, concerning an interview of former FBI Assistant Director

Robert Wick by SSC Staff Members. Also enclosed is a copy of

the memorandum, with attachment, for forwarding to hit. James A.

Wilderotter, Associate counsel to the President.

Your specific attention is invited to certain infor-

nation relating to the interview of Wick suggestive of

improprieties on the part of an SSC Staff Member. The facts,

as known to this Bureau, are as follows.

Wick first contacted this Bureau concerning the inter-

view by telephone on November 5, 1975, to advise that he had

been called on October 31, 1975,

by an individual icentilying

himselt as Mike Epstein representing the SSC: Epstein requested

Wick to cone to Washington, D. Ge, for a two to three hour

interview concerning a matter

relating to his "employment."

Epstein did not further describe the subject matter of the

interview and an appointment was arranged for November 7, 1975.

Wick said that he was uncertain as to the probable subject

matter of the interview because other matters coming within his

responsibilities as Vice President of Pan American World Airways

which were unrelated to the FBI, have been of recent interest

Wick asked for advice of the FBI concerning this

Thereupon, the Legal Counsel Division of this Sureau

contacted Epstein and determined that the subject matter of

the interview of Wick would be Martin luther King, Jr.

return call was made to Wick on November 5, 1975,

to advise him

Assoc. Dir. -

that this Bureau had learned that the subject matter of the

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

interview would be lartin luther King, JIa

2+111-595-12091

Admin.

REC-51

Comp. Syst.-

1 - 67.

(Personnel file former Assistant Director

77 1376

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Robert Wick)

Gen. Inv.-

Ident. -

SFP:mjg

15

Inspection -

(11)

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan, & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. _

Training -

2'

gon

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Nu do A bac a 198002 Page 52

TELETYPE UNIT

VI.F.

BARRIS

4013 ARRI

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920'

---

## Page 93

The Attorney General

on November 6, 1975, Wick again telephoned this Bureau

and advised that he had been rather annoyed at Epstein's

initial approach to him; particularly, because Wick had tried

on more than one occasion during the telephone conversation

with Epstein to pry from Epstein the subject matter of the

Interview but Epstein persisted in not advising him.

This Bureau's representative who had determined from

Epstein on November 5, 1975, the subject matter of the inter

view has advised that when he made the ingulry of Epstein, he

asked Epstein why he had not told Wick the subject matter.

's reply was that Wick had not asked him, a statement

directly contradictory to Wick's advice to this Bureau.

The second suggested impropriety is that Epstein

contacted Wick prior to advising this Bureau of his intention

to interview Wick, an action which is contrary to procedures

which have been agreed upon between the SSC and this Bureau.

Enclosures (4)

62-116395

1 = The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael E. Shaheen, Jx.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

- 2=

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 93

---

## Page 94

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

DATE 10/30/00 BYSPZALM

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs —

Filos & Com. -

Gen. Inv. _

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. _

Training -

Legal Coun..

Telophone Rm. -

Director Soc'y -

MAIL ROOM

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 94

62-716395

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

1 - Mr.

J. A. Mintz

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore

December 9, 1975

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W.O. Cregar

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMITTEE 1 - Mr. S.F. Phillips

TO STUDY GOVERNIENTAL OPERATIONS

WITH RESPECI TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RES INTERVIEW OF FORMER FBI

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (AD) ROBERT MICK

BY SSC STAFF MELBERS

This menorandum concerns an interview of forder FBI

AD Robert Wick by SSG Staff Members.

1975, Wick advised this Bureau that

on October 31, 1975, he had been contacted by an individual

identitying himselt as Mike Epstein of the SSC who requested

wick to come to Washington for a two to thrce hour interview

concerning a matter relating to his employment.

Epstain did

not further describe the subject matter although lick attenpted

to obtain such information fron Epstein.

Upon receipt of the above information fron Hick,

this Bureau determined fron Epstein that the subject matter

was to be hartin luther king, ut, and that lace was talayec

to Fick on November 5, 1975.

Dick was also told that le was

being released from his secrecy agreement with the FBI for the

purpose of the interview, confined to the indicated subject

Wick was also advised by this Bureau that he was not

required to answer questions falling within four privileged

matters pertaining to pending investigations, intormation

from third agencies, including foreign intelligence agencies;

information concerning sensitive methods and techniques, and

infornation which might divulge the

identities of IBI sources,

Attached hereto is a copy of a HEIDIANI FOR THE FILE

dated November 12, 1975, which Wick voluntarily furnished this

Eureau and which represents his report pertaining to the interview.

Enclosure

1 - 67-

(Personnel file former Assistant Director

Robert Wick)

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

SFP:mjgnis (10)

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

waster

62

#14325-12099

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 95

-rea

U. S. Senate Select Connittee

to Study Governaental Operations

With Respect to Intelligence Activities (SS®)

Re: Interview of Former FBI Assistant Director (AD)

Robert Wick by SSC StalE Members

OTE

Inforation relating to contacts between lick and this

Bureau are reported in nemorando 11/5/75 fron Legal Counsei to

"Senstudy 75."

Ine marter of improprieties vas addressed specitically in the

above 11/7/75 Csagar menorandun and it is believed that the

Department

should be made aware of this matter.

- 2=

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 95

---

## Page 96

Court

Seal

[JFK Law 10(a) 1]

Enel lu)

WW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 96

---

## Page 97

Court Seal [JFK Law 10(a)1]

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 97

---

## Page 98

Court Seal [JFK Law 10(a)1]

WW 88614-Đockd:32989602-Page-98

---

## Page 99

T6 5041 209086729207 Fish fi

Court Seal [JFK Law 10(a)1]

---

## Page 100

Court Seal [JFK Law 10(a)1]

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 100

---

## Page 101

Court Seal [JFK Law 10(a)1]

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 101

---

## Page 102

Court Seal

[JFK Law 10(a)1]

...

. •

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 102

---

## Page 103

NOTE:

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index i#

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate

review but not transmitted,

sormoe? a document was mado available

2. DATE PROVIDED

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

* INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

12/9/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

The Attorney General with a copy for forwarding to

SSC

the Ahite House

HSC

4.

IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorancium reporting results of an interview by SSC Staff

Manbors of forner Assistant Director Robert Wick

5. Wise sPoNs verbal sedate or item.

mer alito, esponse formal request, other-

6. CHORA CON ON GET

Codeword TS or

NA

7. He d'under fent fo the appropriate koy words from the list providod separatoly: if key worde not listed are

Information handling

Intelligence collection

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Intervieved regarding his knirledge of the FBI's investigation

of kartin Luther King, JI.

62-116395

FMK: fmk

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

FEREIN 1% UNCLASSIFIEL

ATE 1930/00 BY SPRALMIS

TREAT AS YELLOW

379 | (6-751

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 103

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

---

## Page 104

16-170119

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type of print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 104,

---

## Page 105

F5"-36 (RI, 5-22/84) •

поспостні , атіні

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.-1.D.-InV-

AB3t.

FBI

Date: 12/9/75

Comp. syst.,

Jost. Affaire

Iphis i Com

Gon In

"Idcht

Tgansmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO :

FROM:

RE :

DIRECIOR, FBI

ADIC, LOS ANGELES (66-6243)

SENSTUDY, TESTIMONY OF

"ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR

JAMES B. ADAMS, AND ASSISTANT

DIRECTOR W. RAYMOND WANNALL

12/2/75

ATTN :

Jeanetery

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Fetyhone- Fit. -

Director Ser'y

SCHARMANCETO SHANNES

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

DIVISION

& ASSISTANT TO THE

DIRECTOR JAMES B. ADAMSU

ALL INFORMATION CONFINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10 30 00 8YSPSALMIN

Re Los Angeles phone call to Assistant to the

Director JAMES B. ADAMS, 12/9/75.

On 12/3/75, the attached article appeared in the

Los Angeles Times under the byline of reporter JACK NELSON.

As indicated, the

headline and lead paragraph which supposed

is based on

ADAMS' testimony, clearly reflects that the fb

did nothing to prevent Klan violence although we knew of

the contemplated violence.

After discussing this matter with

Mr. ADAMS and reviewing the actual testimony received in

the Los Angeles Division on 12/8/75, SAC ELMER F. LINBERG

and I met with Editor BILL THOMAS and National Editor ED

GUTHMAN at the Los Angeles Times.

I advised these gentlemen that I was aghast when I

read the headlines and the lead paragraph of this article

and could not believe that JIM ADAMS did not refute informant

ROWE's testimony that we took no action relative to con-

templated violence since I knew that this was contrary to

Che rules,

in 1960.

I then called Mo. ADAMS in Washington, bee and

he likewise, was

upset over the headline and lead paragraph,

ENCLOSURE

i3 - Bureau (1 Encl)

1 - Los Angeles

EX-112/

1: 0-38

6=-1:5is=1209

REG: mmb

(4)

17 DEC 12 1975

Approved: !

? 1976

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 105

PER

22M -

Per.

U.S.Govern Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 106

w.

LA 66-6243

because, according to ADAMS, he completely recuted these

statements in that we did disseminate the contemplated

plans of violence to the Birmingham Police Department and

of

Justice in the form of a letterhead

memorandum.

I continued that I waited until I received the

such testimony. I then proceeded to read several excerpts

from the testimony.

I advised Mr. THOMAS and Mr. GUTHMAN that my

immediate reaction was

to prepare a "Letter to the Editor"

but telt after a re-analysis of the situation that this is

not a judgment question on the part of the newspaper, but

a slanted, inaccurate story either by design or

through misunderstanding.

I therefore felt that the Los

Angeles Times, if it so desired, should be in a position to

correct the situation itself based on the facts.

Mr. THOMAS expressed appreciation

• for my approach

and stated that at the time he read the article, already

printed, a question came to his mind as to why the FBI did

not advise someone or take some action relative to contemplated

violence.

He, however, took no further action. He said

in view of what I had read from excerpts of Mr. ADAMS'

testimony

and

the now available complete transcript of the testimony,

he intends to pursue this matter further and would prefe

not to have a

"letter to the Editor"

, but rather correct

any inaccuracies on the part of the Los Angeles Times through

their own pursuit of further inquiring concerning this story.

indicated that it appears the obvious question is based on

Mr. ADAMS' testimony of who in the Department of Justice

received this information relative to contemplated violence

and what did such a responsible Department of Justice official

do with the information.

He agreed that based on the

information furnished to them, the FBI has been done an

injustice but that they, the Los Angeles Times, desired to

pursue this matter further.

- 2 -

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 106

---

## Page 107

LA 66-6243

It should be noted the article of JACK NELSON is

based on one specific situation, namely the testimony of

former informant GARY ROWE that he had furnished advance

information to the FBI to the effect that members of the

Ku Klux Klan would be given the opportunity to beat members

of the Freedom Riders without interference by law enforcement

authorities for approximately 15 minutes after which the

Local law enforcement authorities would take action, anc

that the FBI was advised of this well in advance of

beatings and furthermore, the FBI took no action to prevent

violence.

3

-

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 107

---

## Page 108

Took No Action to Prevent KLAN VIOLENCE

Klan Violence, FBi Admits

Continued from First Page

i in Southern California under an assumed name.

Rowe was one of two former undercover operatives

BY JACK NELSON

who testified before the committee Tuesday. The other,

Times Washington Bureau Chief

Mary Jo Cook of Buffalo, N.Y., told of supplying the FBI

WASHINGTON-An FBI official

with information about 1,000 persons while serving as an

conceded Tuesday that the bureau

informant against the Vietnam Veterans Against the War

had failed to use an undercover

during 1973-14.

man's information lo head off Ku

Testimony by both witnesses prompted committee

Klux Klan violence in Alabama in

members to criticize FBI tactics and to suggest that legal

the 1960s.

restraints be put on future FBI activities.

But, the official, Jumes B. Adams,

Sen. Philip A. Hart (D-Mich.), commenting on testimony

assistant to the director, told the Sen-

by Rowe that he engaged in klan violence with the

• ate Intelligence Committee that the

knowledge and approval of the FBI, observed that the

FBI was "just as frustrated as anyone

bureau's infiltration of the klan not only failed to prevent

else" at "rank lawlessness" that exist-

violence, "but indeed may have contributed to it."

ed in Alabama at that time. Also, he

said, the FBI is an investigative

agency and has no enforcement pow-

ers.

Adams' defense of the FBI came

immediately after Gary Thomas

Rowe Jr., wearing a hood to conceal

his features, testified that on many

occasions he had warned the bureau

of the klan's plans for violence, but

that the violence occurred without

official interference.

Rowe served six years as an FBI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

НЕТЕЛЬ В СО УБРАКА

Sen. Walter F. Mondale (D-Mont.) told Adams that the

FBI had bungled its job in investigating political activities

and added:

"It has interfered with civil liberties and finally in the

last month or two through its public disclosures has

heaped shame upon itself and really led toward the un-

WITNESS-Gary Thomas Rowe

' dermining of crucial public confidence essential to law en-

Jr. wears hood while testitying.

forcement agencies in the country."

AP Wirephoto

Mondale criticized the FBI for trying to "protect people

from subversive and dangerous ideas," and he told Adams:

klansmen accused.of killing a white

"Time and time again, we're going to protect the blacks

civil rights worker in Lowndes Coun-

from Martin Luther King because he's dangerous. We're

4, Ala, since then he has been living

going to protect veterans from whatever it is, we're going

Please Turn to Page G, Col. 1

, to protect the (National) Council of Churches from veter-

ans and so on...

"Don't you agree with me that we've got to control this,

restrain it, define it, so that precisely what's expected of

he FBl is known by you and by the public and you cai

justity your actions when we ask you?

Adams disagreed that the FBI had bungled in the politi-

cal intelligence field but agreed that restraining legisla-

tion war in order.

Los Angeles Times

12/3/75

62

-lin

371-

ENCLOSURE

120%

NW 88614-Docld:32989602 Page 108

---

## Page 109

5010-106

TO

OPTIONAL fORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOWERNMENT

4 Memorandum

: MR. CALLAHAN

Dep. AD'lly)

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp, Syst!

DATE:

12-3-75

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Idenf

FROM : T. J. JENKINS

section

SUBJECT: GARY T. ROWE

of the

Laboratory

Plan. &rEval.

Spoc. inv..

Training

TESTIMONY BEFORE SENATE

Legal Coun.

O SELECT COMMITTEE,

Telephone Rm. --

Director Sof'y -

On 12-8-75 an Individual-who idéntified himself as Garland

Reeves of the Birmingham, Alabama, News, called and he advised that

he understood I was the Special Agent in Charge of the Birmingham Office

at the time the bus was burned with the Freedom Riders in Birmingham,

Alabama, in 1961. He stated that he would like to know if Rowe had fur-

nished us information that the Birmingham Police were going to wait 15

or 30 minutes to go to the bus station in order to give the Klan an oppor-

tunity to work over the Freedom Riders. I informed Reeves that I recalled

no such information being furnished to us at that time. I told him that alt

intormation we received concerning possible violence was furnished to the

Birmingham Police Department.

He wanted to know, if there had been such

an agreement what action would I take. I told him that if I determined that

the police department would not take any action for 15 or 30 minutes I would

advise the Mayor and city and the Police Commissioner and it they feit the

same as the police department,

would then advise, the Governor of the State.

60.1422

He wanted to know what wollaGe*the FBI's position at that time

if the police department refused to take any action. I told him that we did

not have jurisdiction in matters of this nature, that they were purely local

and it was the responsibility of the local authorities to handle such matters.

He desired to know if I would call out the Federal Marshals. I informed him

that the FBI did not have any authority to call upon the Federal Marshals in

a situation of this nature but if such a situation arose, I would have imme-

diately notified our headquarters in Washington, who would have notified the

Department of Justice, who would have such authority.

I DEC 16 1975

LiC / !!:* I'tolà him that while I was in Birmingham as Special Agent in

Charge we kept the Bureau headquarters in Washington completely informed

of all developments and they in turn, kept the Department of Justice informed.

ACTION: Submitted for information.

TJJ:pmdy(5)

Chis

5

1 - Mr.

Adams

- Mr. Moore

1 - Mr.

Wannal®

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

DATE I 30/00 BY SPRALMI

K9DEC 301975

NW 88614 Docld:32989602

age 109

---

## Page 110

5D-36 pRES, 5-2-69)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI.

Date:

12/4/75

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

Hercin

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

ATTN:

INTD, W.O. CREGAR

SAC, SAN DIEGO (66-1714)

SENSTUDY 75

Re San Diego telephone call to Bureau, 12/4/75.

Enclosed for the Bureau are eight copies of a letter

head memorandum reflecting information received in the San

Office concerning GARY THOMAS ROWE, JI.

Deputy SCOTT BOIEs of the San Diego County Sheriff's

Office was contacted and advised that if he felt he recognized

ROWE that he should not discuss the matter openly with anyone?

in that ROWE was obviously attempting to protect his identity?

Deputy BOIES was not advised that ROWE was identical with THOMAS

NEIL MOORE.

estra flate

12) - Bureau Encs.

81),

1 - San Diego

DCS: pgh

(3)

1- The alterror; Gorarel

EREC200

62-44-515-12062

ax 25 8 1975

Nói Se

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DREN 50/08 5P2 ALMO

wolg

Approved: BLML

Spedial Agent in Charge

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 110

Sent

•M

Per

* U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1989 0 - 346-090 (11)

---

## Page 111

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Diego, California

December 4, 1975

U. S, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: GARY THOMAS ROWE, JR.

At 11:30 p.m. on December 2, 1975, Deputy Sheriff

scott Boles of the San Diego County Sheriff's Office, Lemon Grove,

California Sub-Station, telephonically contacted the

San Diego

FBI Office and advised

as follows;

Deputy Boies stated that he recognized the voice of the

man identified as Gary Thomas Rowe, JI., who is testifying before

the Senate Subcommittee on the Ku Klux

Klan,

He stated he

• heard

Mr. Rowe talk on a news broadcast and recognized him as being an

individual he knows as Thomas Neil Moore.

Deputy Boies furnished

Moore's date of birth as August 15, 1933, and an address of

580 "I" Street, Chula Vista, California, where Moore resided in

1971. Deputy Boies stated that Moore worked for Western Bureau Of

Investigation, headquartered in Los Angeles and worked as a

security, guard for the White Front Department Store, Chula Vista,

California.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREINAD UNCLASSITIE

ATE 10/30/00 BY SP2ALMK

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

62-119÷73

-- 1206X

-1*-

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 111

---

## Page 112

The Attorney General

TREC-100

-FBI

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGINCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

2 - Mr. Ja A. Mintz

(1 - J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall •

December 12, 1975

120611

- Mr. W. 0. Gregar

-Mr.

J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr. S. Klein

Reference is made to my November 26, 1975, letter

to you enclosing among other material, a memorandum concerning

former FBI informant Gary Thomas Rowe, Jr.

Inclosed for your approval and forwarding to the

Committee is a copy of a memorandum dated December 4, 1975,

regarding Gary Thomas Rowe, JI., received by FBI Headquarters

from our San Diego field office.

Rowe, is a former informant who testified before the

SSC on December 2, 1975, regarding his role in supplying

information to the FBI regarding Ku Klux Klan activities in

Alabama. He has been utilizing the cover name, Thomas Feil loor

Also enclosed for your records is a copy of the

December 4, 1975, memorandum.

UNRECORDED COPY FiLED

Enclosures - 2

62-116395

I. - Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael E, Shaheen, JI.

Assoc. Dir. —

Jep. AD Adm. -

Special Counsel for

Asst. Dir.:

Ds. Dirin 1 - 137-6295

Intelligence Goordination

1701

Admin..

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs -

_SK:kIm Kar-

Files & Com. - (11)

Gen. Inv. -

SEE NOTE PAGE

Ident. -

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN US UNCLASSFIED

DATE 10/3000 SY STRALNKP

Plan, & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv..

Training

Legal Coun.

Telophone Rm. -

it's

NO ACT BoL 2: 19,800 Page 172

TELETYPE UNIT O

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

NBI SENI

TO SSO PiR STEVE

BLACKHURSi, USD'S

---

## Page 113

:

The Attorney General

NOTE:

Above being furnished to the Attorney General and the

SSC in order to apprise them of information reflecting that

Rote, who testified with a mask over his face, was identified

by a San Diego Deputy Sheriff after hearing Rowe's voice on a

news broadcast.

Arrangements have been made for a representative

of the Legal Counsel Division to deliver the attached memorandum.

- 2 -

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 113

---

## Page 114

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

LAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPAIR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Assoc. Dis: +

Dep. 40 Ag

ор.

Comp. Syst. -

TO

Mr.

B. Adams

DATE: 12/4/75

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

FROM :

Lesal Counsel fur

Spec. Inv. _

Training

Tole phone

Siractor Se

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS URCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/30/00 VY SAALMIP

In connection with the Director's appearance on December 9,

1975, to testify before captioned committee, it is possible that he may be

asked concerning recent proposals in the Congress to change the name

of the building. Three bills have been introduced in the House of

Representatives on December 1, 1975, for that purpose. H.R. 10905,

introduced by Congressman Gude of Maryland and H. R. 10918, introduced

by Congresswoman Schroeder of Colorado, would change the name of

he

building to "FBI Building." H.R. 10916, introduced by Congressman

Rangel of New York, would change the name to "Federal Bureau of

Investigation Building. " All three of the bills were referred to the

Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House, the

chairman of which is Congressman Jones of Alabama.

RECOMMENDATION:

for testimony.

For information of the Director in connection with his preparation

EX. 108

REC-9

62.116:15-12060

8.

A-SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

TESTIMONY BY THE DIRECTOR

DECEMBER 9, 1975

LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL TO CHANGE

THE NAME OF THE J. EDGAR HOOVER

FBI BUILDING

Enc.

1 - Mr. Hotis

1 - Mr. Walsh

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Moore

1 - Mr. Mintz

* DEC 16 1975

i÷".

JAM:mfd

(6)

ІХНИЙ "

1975

DEC

Nw 5862 bOl 39759602 By eT Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

COPE FILLD

---

## Page 115

94TH CONGRESS

1ST SESSION

H. R. 10905

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

DECEMBOR 1, 1975

Mr. Gode introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee

on Public Works and Transportation

A BILL

To amend the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Bicentennial

Civic Center Act.

1

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-

2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

3 That section 8 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Bi-

4 centennial Civic Center Act (86 Stat. 1022) is amended

5 by striking out "J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building" wherever

6 it appears in such section and inserting in lieu thereof "F.B.I.

7 Building".

I

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREN S UNCLASSIFIA

DATED 30/00 BY SPAUMKE

• NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 115

---

## Page 116

gATE CONGRESS

IST SESSION

H. R. 10905

A BILL

To amend the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial

Bicentennial Civic Center Act.

By Mr. GuDE

DECEMBER 1, 1975

Referred to the Committee on Public Yorks and

Transportation

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 116

- Ya 1310

---

## Page 117

941r CONGRESS

IST SESSION

H. R. 10918

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

DECEMBER 1,1975

Mrs. ScurorDer introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Com-

mittee on Public Works and Transportation

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

ATE 10/30/00 BY SPALACKE

A BILL

To designate the name of the new Federal building in the District

of Columbia which is erected to house the Federal Bureau

of Investigation.

Be it enacted by the Senatè and House of Representa-

tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

That section 8 of the Public Law 92-520 is amended to

read as follows:

5

"Seo. 8. The Federal building in the block bounded

6 by Ninth Street Northwest, Tenth Street Northeast, E Street

" Northwest, and Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest, in the Dis-

8 trict of Columbia, shall hereafter be known as the 'F.B.I.

9 Building'. Any reference in a law, map, regulation, docu-

I0 ment, record, or other paper of the United States to such

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 117

---

## Page 118

1 Federal building shall be held to be a reference to the

94TH CONGRESS

IST SESSION

H. R. 10918

A BILL

To designate the name of the new Federal build-

ing in the District of Columbia which is

rected to house the Federal Bureau oi

Investigation.

By Mrs. SCHROEDER

DECEMBER 1, 1975

Referred to the Committee on Public Works and

Transportation

2 'F.B.I. Building'".

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 118

---

## Page 119

9TIr CONGRESS

1S'r SESSION

Ho Ro 10916

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

DECEIBER 1, 1975

Mr. Raxger introduced the following bill; which was referred io the Com-

mittee on Public Works and Transportation

A BILL

To change the name of the J. Edgar Iloorer F.B.I. Building.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-

2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

3 That section 8 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Bi-

4 centennial Civic Center det (86 Stat. 1022) is amended

5 by striking out "J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building" both

6 times it appears and inserting in lieu thereof "Federal

" Bureau of Investigation Building".

I

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE10,30/00 BY SPRAMIE

NW. 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 119

---

## Page 120

DITI CONGRASS

I57 SESSION

Re 10916

A BILL

To change the name of the J. Mign Hoover

F.B.X. Building.

By Mr. Raxort

D&CENE: 1, 1975

Reierred to the Committee on Public Works and

Transportation

-NW-88614_Docld:32989602_Page 120

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MATE /530/00SV SPALMEP

---

## Page 121

1 - Nir, Cochran

1 - Mr. Stack

1 - Mr. McWright

11/28/75

Mir. Jcnkins

J. Cochran, Jr.

REQUEST BY SENATE JUDICIARY SUBCOND ITTEE

ON ADI UNIST RATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

FOR INFORMATION CONCIANIIG USE OF DRUES

FOR INTERROCATION

Sister'';

no momorandum from Logal Councel to Tir. J. B. Loams catca 1l/21/75,

advising that representatives of captionca cnate Subcommitica desire to revicw

ony Eurcau documents rolating to tho Burcau's interesi in or uso of drugs during

inicrrogation,

I was pointed out in rofercaced memo that captionca Cubcommitice stati

mcmbors James E. Michie and Thomas M. Susman had obtained information

from the Deparincht of Dofense (DOD) and the Central Intelligcace Agency (CIA)

concerning a program coordinated between DOD, CIA, and FEI to develop a trut

serum. The program apparcatly began in carly 1050 and D. J. Parcons of the

FBI Laboratory had Inowlodge of this activity.

The information thai Michic and Susman have obtained apparently relates

to o. Navy drug esperimentation projcci from 1947 to 1954. Navy files indicated

that the FBI was avare of this progrom and Mr. C. D. DeLoach and D. J. Parconc

werc mentioned.

A review of Sureau files dirclosed only one reforcnee (02-2699-75) to the

Navy drug projcci, This tas a memoranoum, 8/4/50, rccording that Mix. Alberti,

ONI, had informed Liaison that the Navy had bech devclopinga new drug which

62-2639

Enclocure

62-118395

1 - 1ir. scams)

ENCLOSUNNy

2 - Nix. Mintz

(Attn: Mr, Hotis)

(Atin: Mr. Miller)

3 - Mr. V/anall (Attn: Mr. W. O. Crogar)

(Atta: Mr. T. D, J. Brooks)

(Atin: Mr. V. H. Weimar)

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

CONTINUED - OVER

CHin

Cotitoms

(11)

NOT RECORDED

46 FEB 5 1976

8 4 FEB 9

1976

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 121

=

---

## Page 122

Memorandum J. Cochran, Jr. to Mr. Jenkins

RE: REQUEST BY SENATE JUDICIARY SUBCOMMITTEE

ON ADMINIST RATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCIDURE

FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING USE OF DRUCS

FOR INTERROGATION

might be used to grcat advantage on espionage suspects. Navy offcred to

inform us about this. A notation by Nir. DeLoach indicated that Mr. Farsons

would meet with Navy on 8/11/50.

Mcmorandum dated 11/6/75 from W. O. Cregar to Mr. W. R. Wannall

is attached which cots forth details of our review of Navy files on this project,

including a Surcau press release which was to have been made in the event

that the Navy mentioned the FBI in their press relcase on this matter.

A review of Bureau files for information relating to drugs designed to

modify behavior indicates an interest dating back to 1022. However, this

interest has not extended to tho point where the Bureau has conducted research

on bchavior modifying drugs nor has it funded such rescarch. We have maintainca

liaison with other agencies, primarily the U. S. Army, and industrial organiza-

tions in order to be avare of developments in this area.

On 7/30/74, Laboratory and Training Division representatives mot

with ropresentatives of the Biomedical and Chemical Laboratories of

Edgevood Arsenal, Maryland, to discuss the potential use of incapacitating

chemical agents in hostage situations. Although we have developed an aware-

noss of various agents which may be used in these situations, we have not

conducted any research with these agents. Memoranda on this matter are

located in Bufile 80-807.

A single inctance occurred where "truth serum" was administered in

& Burcau case. Truth serum was administered to Thurman Scruggs Wilkins

at his own request while being interviewed in the Los Angeles Office,

April 26, 1947. Wilkins was allegedly involved with one Ignacy Samuel

Witczal:, the subject of a Sovict espionage cace (100-343077). The actual

drug uscd was sodium amytal and the actual adminictration was donc by a

physician. Prior Bureau authority was not obtained by the Los Angeles

Office in connection with this incident. SAC Hood submitted a lotter of

explanation to the Burezu on July &, 1947. This incident resulted in the

following information being set forth in SAC Letter 81-47 dated July 3, 1917:

- 2-

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 122

---

## Page 123

-

•

Memorandum J. Cochran, Jr. to Mr. Jensins

RE: REQUEST BY SENATE JUDICIARY SUBCONMITTEE

ON ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING USE OF DRUGS

FOR INTERROCATION

"The Eurcau will not tolerate any experiments or participation

on the part of its personnel in the utilization of the so called trui

scrums or othor chemicala allezca to liave 2 similar cucci. -

consequently, in the event any Eurcau agent violates tiese instructions,

drastic administrative acton will be talen."

There was nothing found in Bureru files that would indicate that we

have received any documents from CIA concerning their drug research

programs. The files do rcileci that we were aware that CIA was concuccing

rescarch with lycorgic acid diethylamide (ISD) and that Britien Intelligence

had successfully uttlized LSD on several Fussian espionage agents. The

information concerning CIA and British activities is sei out for the benefit

of the Dircetor only and cannot be relcased outsido the Burcau.

Thoro are to Bureau files which contain most of the information

rolating to tho immediate area of intercoi of the captioned Scratc Subcommittee.

These files are 62-2699 (Truth Scrums) and 80-645 (Chemical Munitions and

Gasco). Pertinent serials may also be found in 80-807 and 100-313077 as

previously noted in this memorandum.

I see no rcason why Mr. Michie and Mr. Susman chould not be

adforded on oral briefing regarding these matters, and if necessary make

pertinent serials of Eufiles 62-2639, 80-645, 80-807, and 100-343077 available

to thom for revicw

RECOMMENDATIONS:

(1) That Mr, Michie and Mr. Susman be advised by Legal Counsel that

available Eurcou records and interview with current Imowledgeablo employee

incicate the FBI has never engaged in nor funded anyone's eiforts in rescarca

and/or development programs in the use or effect of drugs on huran behavior.

They should be advised our offorts in this regard as fer as can be established

from the available records consists of following through liaison contacts with

other government agencies and the private sector sources the current

developments in schavior mocitying drugs.

- 3-

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 123

---

## Page 124

Memorandura J. Cochran, Jr. to Mr. Jenkins

RE: REQUEST BY SENATE JUDICIARY SUBCOMMITTEE

ON ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING USE OF DRUGS

FOR INTERROGATION

(2) That if thoy desire to purcuc this matter further, sA McWright

and myself be permitted to meet with Michie and Susman to (2) reaffirm

the intormation in recommendation "l and (b) ii necessary, to produce 10i

ticir inspection pertinent serials from 62-0299, 80-645, 00-80%, and

100-343077.

!

-1 -

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 124

---

## Page 125

Mir. W. R. Wannall

W. 0. Cregar

2 - ME.

J.

Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. D. W. Hoora

1 ~ Lit. J. Cochran

11/6/75

1

• MI. W. R. Wannall

Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

C.

G. McHright

• Mr. J. I. Thomas

SENSTUDY 75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE NO OF SY SPRALEP

This is to inforn you that on 11/7/75 Defense

Department will release to the Senate Select Committee (SSC),

the Senate judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Practices

and Procedures (Senator Edward M. Kennedy's committee), and

to the press, information concerning Navy projects from

1947 to 1954 Involving drug experimentation; a Navy file.

Indicates FBI was aware of programs but Laboratory has no

knowledge of any active participation by Bureau personnel.

On 11/4/75, Clark McGruder, Assistant to Admiral

Bobby R. Inman, Director of Naval Intelligence, informed me

that on 11/7/75 the Navy was going to release to aforementioned

committees and the press information on drug experimentation

and that the FBI was nentloned in the pertinent files.

Those files were reviewed at the Pentagon on 11/6/75 by

Supervisor J. P. Thomas of INID. They had been classified

"Secret"' and "'Top Secret" but now have been completely

declassified. FBI was mentioned in connection with three

projects. There are no FBI documents in the files.

• A memorandum dated 9/21/50 from Mr. Alberti to

Mr. C. D. Deloach was a receipt signed by Mir. Deioach for

one copy of "drugs stated to Have Been Used by Russians And

Certians In Interrogation lechniques."

Alberti is idontified

elsenhere in the file as lack il. Alberti, Office of leval

Intelligence (ONI), who apparently coordinated the projects

mentioned in the file. The purpose of one project was to

develop a speech-inducing drug to obtain intelligence. from

interrogees and the project began in 1947.

Enclosures

62-116395

Fry"

(9)

NW 8614. Docld:32989602 Page. 125

6:2

116395-

---

## Page 126

Menorandu to Mr. W.

R. Hennall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

Office of Chief of Naval Operations concerned "Top Secret

Naval Medical Research Institute (NIRI) Iroject on Speech-

Inducing rugs," reported a meeting on 8/11/50 attended by

personnel of 'NMRI, CIA, Office of Naval Kesearch (OLI), a

drug company representative and MI. Deloach and fit. D. J.

Parsons of the FBI Laboratory, The purpose of the meeting

Was to brief the FBI on a CIA project on narco-hypnosis and

on. the NiRI project. Parsons reportedly said the rBI had

no such project, but had information on the experiences of

various police departments in the United States with' speech-

Inducing drugs. He agreed to make the FBI Information

available to MURI and CIA. ONR egreed to give FBI, MURI

and CIA a study by ONR on projected research to improve.

polygraph rellability. Recipients were to give their comnents

and recommendations on the study to ON. At the meeting

MRI gave Deloach an 8/11/50 kiRI progress report on 1ts

project. Parsons agreed to look into the possibility of

getting volunteers from prisoners in Federal Institutions

and to supply MiRI with canabis (marijuana) and heroin to

the extent they might be available to the FBI. It is noted

that no FBI representatives were listed in the nemorandum

reporting a 9/27/50 meeting of this group and there 1s no

further record in the file of FBI participation. Neither 1B

there any record that the fil supplied any drugs for the

project..

Material regarding project ChAIrsy" included a

carbon copy of a rough draft merorancum (no letterhead)

bearing the penciled date i11/501" which contained the

following, "Since 1547 the lepartnent of the lavy has

carried on a project in coorchiation with the departments

of the Air force and iny,. Uld and I3I for the develeprent

of speech-inducing drugs.... The Directors of Intelligence

of she thaco kerices, of CIa cd 33T conalder this portant

• 2. 0

NW 88614 Docld:32989602_Page. 126*

---

## Page 127

Memorandum to MI. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy. 75

62-116395

10°

of utmost important and urgency to... fulfillnent of their

missions for the security of the United States.". The

memorandum says that a project submitted to ONR by Professor

Richard Wendt of the University of Rochester (NY) had been

approved by all the agencies involved and recommended

funding the project. The file indicates subsequently that

this project did go forward and Involve human experimentation.

The deed file dealt with project "CALLING CARD,"

1952-1953, designed "to render an individual subservient to

Impose|will or control." FBI was not mentioned.

fill)

A memorandum dated 9/5/50 for Mr. D. J. Parsons,

FBI; C. Edwards, CIA; and Captain Wilbur E. Kellum of

Naval Medical Research, from W. S. Post, JI. (not further

Identified), informed them that a copy of the report on the

"Ellson" project (University of Indiana, 1952) was being

forwarded to them for information. The project involved

research in the detection of deception. The addressees were

to be briefed by Frofessor D. G. Ellson of Indiana University

on the project at a future date. The file did not show that.

the briefing occurred. The project was terminated in June;

1952.

The two files reviewed contained many reports of

research conducted concerning various drugs in Various parts

of the world, constituting a collection of papers on the

subject by U.S. and foreign researchers.

A review of logical Bureau files by the Laboratory

Division discloged only one reference (62-2599-75) to tie

above.

This was a menorandun, 8/4/50, recording that

lix. Alberts, OI, had Informed Liaison that the Navy had

been developing a new drug which might be used to great

. NW. 88614 Docld:32989602 Page: 127'

---

## Page 128

remorancum to Mc. M. R. Fannall

Kẹ :

Senstudy 75

62-116395 •

advantage on espionage suspects. Navy offered to inform

us about this.

A notation by MI. Feloach indicated that

Nr. Parsons would meet with Navy on 8/11/50. (wavy

memorandum on this meeting set out above.)

We have raceived a memorandum dated 11/4/75 from

"Defense describing the proposed release of Navy information

to the committees and to the press.

Copy of that memorandum

and of the press release are attached.

The release says that

"Liaison was maintained with...

the FBI" concerning the drugretire

ACTION:

release.

None. For record purposes.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 128

---

## Page 129

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN•IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/30/00 BY.

PRESS RELEASE

NOVEMBER 7, 1975

The press statement released by the Navy today

relating to its drug research on human subjects for the

period 1947 through 1954 indicates liaison concerning this

project was maintained by the Navy with other Governmental

agencies, including the FBI.

A thorough review of FBI files has discloséd one

document relating to this Navy research: a short internal

memorandum, dated August 4, 1950. This memorandun, prepared

by a member of the Liaison staff at FBI Headquarters, recorded

that a Navy official had invited FBI representatives to a

conference in the Washington area to "discuss the usage of

truth serum in Intelligence circles," and that the Navy had

-

made advances in developing a new drug which "could be utilized

to a great advantage in the questioning of espionage agents."

handwritten notation on this memorandum directed that a

representative of the FBI Laboratory was to attend this

conference on August 11; 1950.

No further identifiable reference to Navy drug

development research is contained in FBI files. No record

can

be located that liaison was being maintained with the

Navy regarding

this program, or that the FBI had knowledge

of this progra pIlot do is titi in thirt

ENCLOSURE

+02-1163955

NW 38614-Docld:32989602-Page 129

---

## Page 130

<=

The FBI was not involved in any way in this Navy

drug research, and the FBI has never participated in research

with drugs designed to modify human behavior, nor has it

funded such research.

NW 88614.Docld:32989602 Page 130

---

## Page 131

1 - Mx. J. B. Adams

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Ms. J. B. Hotis)

The Attorney General

1 - Mx. W. Becember 24, 1975

ST, 115'

1-

MT. J. G. Deegan

Director, FBI

REC-51

62-11-385-1294

IT .

R.

L. Shackelford

I.

F. J. Cassidy

1 - Mr. W. D. Cregar

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

This is in response to the SSC letter dated

December 18, 1975, wherein Senators Mondale and Baker

requested rather detailed information to be made available

during the last week of December, 1975, and the first week

of January, 1976.

It is noted that most of the requests in this

letter are so ambiguous that they require clarification

from the SSC before the FBI can logically respond.

In one

instance, there is no way this Bureau could respond short

oi obtaining the recollections of Bureau Supervisors who

worked in the Intelligence Division extending back almost

20 years. Because of this, ve are attaching for your

approval and forwarding to the SSC the original of a

memorandum which delineates the problems attendant to the

request of December 18, 1975, and, in most instances, requests

a meeting between Mr. John Elliff, Domestic Task Force

Director, SSC, and representatives of this Bureau in the

hope that some alternatives or clarifications can be developed.

A copy of the menorandum is furnished for your records.

Enclosures

(2)

(VOC

Assoc. Dir. _

62-116395

Dep. AD Adm.

Asst. Dir.:

Dep. AD Iny. - 1 - The Deputy

Admin. -

Attention:

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. inv. -

Ident,

Inspection

WOC: 1hb |hib

(12)

Intell.

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval.

Spoc. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT

CM N2089602 Page 131

Attorney General

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

ALL. INFORMATION CONTAINED

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

HEREIN NS UNCLASSIFIED

DATED 30/ DO BY SPEAK -1

=,

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 132

pro

The Attorney General

NOTE:

The request of 12/18/75 was received in the

Intelligence Divisinn in the midafternonn of 12/22/75. A

conference was held on the morning of 12/23/75 nt pertinent

Division personnel in an effort tn identify the problems

connected with responding to this request. It is believed

that the only way the Bureau can Ingically respond en the

request is by obtaining clarifications and, in some instances,

alternatives tn the requests set out.

We have already determined that both Inhn Elliff

and the SSC Counsel, F. A. 0. Schwartz, are nut of the city

Int the holidays. The Legal Counsel Division has left

word with Mr. Schwartz and/or Mr. Elliff tn call SA Paul Daly

upon their return to the city.

Copy of 12/18/75 request attached.

- 2 -

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 132

---

## Page 133

62-116395

1 - MI. J.

Adams

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. J, G. Deegan

1 - Mr. R. L. Shackelford

December 24, 1975

1 - Mr. F. J. Cassidy

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

U, S. SENATE SELICT COMMITIES TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL, OPERAZIONS UZILL

RESPECI IO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DECEMBER 18, 1975, LETTER 10 THIS

ATIORNEY GENERAL FROM SENATORS

MONDALE AND BAKER

LL INFORMATIOI

MAN CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UACLASSIFIED

DATE 10/30/00 BY SPRALMKE

On December 22, 1975, this Dureal received a copy

of a letter dated Decenber 13, 1975, Which Senators Mondole

and Baler sent to the Attorney General levying certain

requirements on the FBI with a request that the responses

be provided the sse during the last week of December, 1975,

and the first week of Januaxy, 1976.

Iten 1 requested access to materials in the

Investigative files for a six-month period preceding acts

of violence which were prevented by actions taken by the FBI.

The specific preventive actions were set out in sone detail

in a menorandum prepared for the SSC by the FBI dated

December 10, 1975.

Upon receipt of referenced letter, the Intelligence

Division initlated efforts to isolate the files documonting

these preventive actions. The Bureau's response of

December 10, 1975, was predicated on a review of the

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm.-

pertinent inspection reports of the Intelligence Division.

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

These reports do not document by file number the individual

Admin. _

preventive actions. To locate specific files, it will be

Comp. Syst.-

necessaty to have knowledgeable Intelligence Division

Ext. Affairs —

Files & Com. -

personnel queried in an effort to try to match the preventive

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

action with a particular investigative file.

In some, Instances,

Inspection

Intell.

WOC:1hblhb

PID

Laboratory

(11)

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv..

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNE 62 - 176

355--

P3(014 1801760-58028

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 133

---

## Page 134

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DECEMBER 18, 1975, LETTER TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

FROM SENATORS MONDALE AND BAKER

there will be no investigative file but merely a communication

from a field office reporting information furnished by a

source of the FBI on which some preventive action was

predicated. It is possible that the acts of violence

reported by the source could involve a violation over which

the FBI had no Investigative jurisdiction. In such cases,

the local field office would have merely furnished the

information to the appropriate law enforcement agency and

no investigative file would exist.

We are continuing our efforts to attempt to

isolate those files which document preventive actions.

However, because of the problems attendant thereto, as well

as those problems raised in the subparagraphs of Item 1,

it is recommended that a meeting be arranged between MI. John

Ell1ff, Domestic Task Force Director, and representatives

of this Bureau to discuss possible alternatives to some of

these requests.

Items 2 and 3 concern the September 24, 1975,

report to the House Judiciary Committee by the General

Accounting Nilce. The FBI is in the process of preparing

a response and it will be made available to the Committee

as soon as possible. However, it is noted that the FBI

prepared no analysis at all on the findings of the General

Accounting Oftice contained in their report of September 24, 1975.

Item 4 requests the annual reports from the

office of origin to FBI Headquarters for the Investigation

of DI. Martin Luther King, JI., in 1963 through 1968, and

the Women's Liberation Movement for the years that organi-

zation was under investigation.

Item 4 also requests anmal

reports available on the investigations "about which

materials were

supplied pursuant to John Elliff's request

of October 28."

-2.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 134

---

## Page 135

SENATE SELECT COMMITIEE ON INTELZIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DECEMBER 18, 1975, LETTER TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

FROM SENATORS MONDALE AND BAKER

There were no annual reports submitted by the

office of origin to FBI Headquarters for the investigation

of Martin luther King, JI., In 1963 through 1968. With

regard to the Women's Liberation Movement, the SSC has been

provided copies of all pertinent reports for the years the

organization was under investigation. In an effort to

clarify what is meant by the anmal reports avallable on

the investigations about which materials were supplied

pursuant to MI. John Elliff's request of October 28, 1975,

it is again proposed that a meeting with Mr. Elliff be

arranged to clariiy this ambiguity.

Item 5 requests specific examples of cases where

the FBI has taken action in the past similar to that which

would be authorized by Section IV of the Department of

'Justice's guidelines draft on "Domestic Security Investigations."

The indices of this Bureau are not organized to

enable retrieval of information of a "preventive action"

character

or examples of FBI actions taken to prevent

violence. The retrieval of such information from FBI files,

other than that described in the response to Item 1, would

require extensive review and/or dependence on the recollection

of individuals of occurrences extending back almost 20 years.

It is suggested that, during the proposed meeting with

Mr. John Elliff, this request be discussed.

Item 6 requests access to all FBI materials

pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr., the Poor Peoples'

Campaign and the Sanitation Workers Strike in Memphis,

Tennessee, froll January 1, through April 4, 1968.

-3-

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 135

---

## Page 136

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DECIMBER 18, 1975, LETTER TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

FROM SENATORS MONDALE AND BAKER

It is this Bureau's belief that all pertinent

material pertaining to Martin Luther King, JI., for the

period January 1, through April 4, 1968, has been made

available to the SSC responsive to previous requests. With

regard to the Poor Peoples' Campaign and the Sanitation

Workers Strike in Memphis, Tennessee, it is not clear

whether the letter is requesting access to the entire FBI

file on these two activities from the period January 1,

through April 4, 1968. It is recommended that a clarification

of this request can be accomplished during the previously

proposed meeting between Mr. John Elliff and representatives

of the FBI.

Item 7 requests all materials pertaining to.

"Project nvershoe."

A check of indices of the FBI regarding "Project

overshoe," as well as the word nvershoe, fails to contain

any reference to either.

Without additional information

regarding "Project svershoe," this Bureau cannot be

responsive to this specific request. Again, it is suggested

that, during the forthcoming meeting with John Elliff,

clarification of "Project nvershoe" be obtained.

1 - The Attorney General

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 136

---

## Page 137

5-1 to (Rev. 3-21-73)

Intelligence Division

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

INFORMATIVE NOTE

HEREIN I6 UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1030/00 BY SPANNIKO

• Date

RE: SENSTUDY 75

1/5/76

• Attached is a request from Senators

Mondale and Baker of the Senate Select

Committee (SSC) dated 12/18/75. The

Director has requested he be advised

regarding the status of this request.

Attached is a copy of a letter to the

AG and LHM for the

SSC, dated 12/24/75,

advising the AG that the request of

Senators Mondale and Baker require clari-

fication. On 12/30/75, Cregar and Daly

met with SSC Staff Members Gitenstein and

Epstein to obtain this clarification. As

a result of this meeting, the following

understanding was developed regarding the

Mondale-Baker request:

Item I was reworded to make recovery

by the Bureau possible. In addition, C and

D under Item 1 were temporarily placed in

abeyance. (A partial response to Item I

is currently being walked through signature

process.)

Items 2 and 3 are in signature process.

Item 4 was restricted to the annual

reports on some 31 organizations. This

will be time-consuming and we cannot

WOC : 1hb

CONTINUED - OVER DOJ/ FBi

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 137

---

## Page 138

3)

Assoc.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs _

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Intelligence Division

ED

IN FORMATIVE NOTE

Date

RE: SENSTUDY 75

1/5/76

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv..

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

ched is a request from Senators

nd Baker of the Senate Select

(SSC) dated 12/18/75. The

has requested he be advised

the status of this request.

ched is a copy of a letter to the

M for the SSC, dated 12/24/75,

advising the AG that the request of

Senators Mondale and Baker require clari-

fication. On 12/30/75, Cregar and Daly

met with SSC Staff Members Gitenstein and

Epstein to obtain this clarification. As

a result of this meeting, the following

understanding was developed regarding the

Mondale-Baker request:

Item l was reworded to make recovery

by the Bureau possible. In addition, C and

D under Item 1 were temporarily placed in

abeyance. (A partial response to Item 1

is currently being walked through signature

process.)

Items 2 and 3 are in signature process.

Item 4 was restricted to the annual

reports on some 31 organizations. This

will be time-consuming and we cannot

WOC: :1hb

CONTINUED - OVER DOS/FBI

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 138

---

## Page 139

estimate when

we will complete Item 4.

Item 5 has been reduced to the recol-

lection of Bureau Supervisor David Ryan

who handled the COINTELPRO matter and will

not require research beyond what SA Ryan

can recall. (Ryan is currently developing

a response to this request.)

Item 6 has been reduced to all

materials relating to the Poor People's

Campaign, the Sanitation Workers Strike

in Memphis, Tennesee, and Martin Luther

King, JI., contained in Headquarters files

between the period 1/1-4/4/68. (We are

currently working on this request.)

Item 7 - Epstein has agreed to obtain

more identifying data regarding Project

Overshoe and we are awaiting this

information.

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 139

---

## Page 140

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H, BAKER, JR., TENN,

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUODLESTON, KY.

CHARLES MCC. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDCHICK A. O, SCHWARI, J., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R, SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

CRET

RECEIVED

Writed States

GrEECE OF THE

•DERIOUS Y GENERAL

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH: M9

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIÉS

(PURSUANT TO 5. RES, 21, HITH CONGHESS) .

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 18, 1975

F.B. J.e

Zefo.

KP

DECLASSTIND BYSP

30/00

NW 86614

Do

Attorney General Edward H. Levi

Room 5111

Department of Justice

Dear General Levi:

WHAT SeT CaN 1-5-71

We have been asked to chair a special subcommitte

of the Select Committee on Intelligence which will con-

centrate on matters relating to domestic intelligence

activities of the Federal government.

Our mandate is

to

prepare for the full committee's consideration a draft

report of findings of fact on alleged abuses or excesses

by the FBI and other domestic intelligence agencies; the

causes of such alleged abuses of excesses and recommendation

which the Committee might make to remedy the problems we

have uncovered.

We are aware of the fine work in which your staff has

been engaged in these areas and hope that they will be

available to work with the Committee staff on these matters.

However, the Subcommittee finds the Committee record needs

to be supplemented in several important respects and there-

fore finds it necessary to direct a number of requests to

the FBI for further information which we hope will be

treated on a priority basis so that the Subcommittee can

meet the deadlines set by the full committee.

These and

future requests which will be handled between the two

committee counsel or Mr. Elliff, Domestic Task Force Leader,

us to formulate meaningful recommendations and to pursue

unsettled.

pertaining to your guidelines on "Domestic Security-Inves-

tigations" and on manpower and buaget statistics for the

FBI's domestic intelligence program.

on.. N9 :973

it ts

F'OK

isito meet the deadline set by the full committee,

esse

seat,that the information requested below be

•Page 140

SEYRET

---

## Page 141

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

SCHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER. JR., TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MiNN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.

CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY MART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARI, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

EGRET

RECEIVED

GriOCk OF THE

@Crited States Senate: deltra

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WI

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES, 21, PATH CONGHESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

F.B. Jc

December 18, 1975

As ins. Callaken

efo.

Attorney General Edward H. Levi

Room 5111

w. Jaukins.

Department of Justice

his

washington, D.C. 20530 Sensture,

Dear General Levi:

• We have been asked to chair a special subcommit

melet Sel T. Par 1-5-76

of the Select Committee on Intelligence which will con-

centrate on matters relating to domestic intelligence

activities of the Federal government.

Our mandate is

to

prepare for the full committee's consideration a draft

report of findings of fact on

alleged abuses or excesses

by the FBI and other domestic intelligence agencies; the

causes of such alleged abuses or excesses and

which the Committee might make to remedy the problems we

have uncovered.

DEC

ON

We are aware of the fine work in which your staff has

been engaged in these areas and hope that they will be

available to work with the Committee staff on these matters.

However, the Subcommittee finds the Committee record needs

to be supplemented in several important respects and there-

fore finds it necessary to direct a number of requests to

the FBI for further information which we hope will be

treated on a priority basis so that the Subcommittee can

meet the deadlines set by the full committee.

These and

future requests which will be handled between the twọ

committee

• counsel or Mr. Elliff, Domestic Task Force Leader,

NVV 86614

Docidis

ination.

to formulate meaningful recommendations and to pursue

matters on certain specific Ritaged questians

unsettled. Among the future request

tigations" and on manpower and budget statifAN Z€ 1976

FBI''s domestic intelligence program.

it is

For

to meet the deadline set by the fulf comiittee..

Clethat the information requested below be

Page 141

SECRET

---

## Page 142

ET

Attorney General Edward H. Levi

Page Two

December 18, 1975

provided during the last week of December and the first

week of January:

1. With respect to each. of the examples of effective

prevention of violence provided the Committee pursuant to

John Elliff's letter of November 26 to Mr. Shaheen, please

provide access to materials in the investigative file

for the 6-month period preceding the act of violence

prevented. Please deliver:

(a) All materials relating to the legal and

factual predicate for each investigation;

(b) The first investigative report disseminated

outside the FBI in

each such case, and a list. of

recipients of that report;

The total number of individuals whose names

were xeferred to the FBI's general name index in

the course of each investigation:

(d) The total number of individuals about whom

information was obtained through informants, confi-

dential sources, physical surveillance, electronic

surveillance and other sensitive techniques; and

(e) The annual report from the office of origin

for each such investigation to FBI headquarters for

the last five years during which the case in question

was an open investigation.

Please provide any information which you have

refuting the suggestion made on page 34 of the General

Accounting Office's

September 24

report to the House Judiciary

Committee, that cases in which violence can be predicted

probably represent less than 2% of all FBI domestic intel-

ligence investigations.

3. Please provide all memoranda or analyses prepared

for the Justice Department, Director Kelley, or Assistant

Director Wannall on the findings of the General Accounting

Office as presented to the House Judiciary Committee on

September 24.

4. Please provide the annual report from the office

of origin to FBI headquarters for the investigation of

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 142

wurT

WILL

---

## Page 143

-

Attorney Gereral Edward H. Levi

Page three

December 18, 1975

Dr. Martin Luther King in 1963 through 1968, and for the

investigation of the Women's Liberation Movement for the

years that that organization was under investigation, and

the annual reports available on the investigations about

which materials were supplied pursuant to John Elliff's

- request of October 28.

Please provide specific examples of cases where

the FBI has taken action in

the past similar to that which

would be authorized by Section IV on "preventive action"

of the draft Department of Justice's guidelines on "domestic

security investigations."

6. Access to all. FBI materials pertaining to DI. Martin

Luther King, Jx., the Poor People's Campaign, and the

Sanitation Workers Strike in Memphis, Tennessee, from

January 1 through April 4, 1968.

7. All materials pertaining to "Project Overshoe."

Thank you for your prompt consideration of this

request.

We look forward to continuing cooperation on

this area of joint concern.

Sincerely,

Wetter Monda

• Mondale

Found inhe

- NW 88614-Đocld:32989602-Page-143

SENST

---

## Page 144

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ULTR.

EX LHM

• Memo

dated

_12/24/75

Capit of Document:

Senate

elect Committee (SSC)

12/18/75 Letter to the Attorney

General from Senators Mondale & Baker)

Originating Office:

FBI

Delivered by:

_ Date: _

12-30-75

Received by: -

Title:

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

a route non-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

JEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE!

ATE 10, 30/00 BY SP2ALM$$

eel: 5375-120481

-NW 88614-_Docld:32989602 Page 144

---

## Page 145

OTE:

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term.

Il a document was made available

for review but not transmitted, so note.)

X DOCUMENT |

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

JOTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

12/24/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

SSC

HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive

interviewee,

data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

testifier and

subject)

Menorandum

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date

and item number

if in

response

state verbal request

of (name), initiative,

subpoena,

formal request, other.

SSC letter 12/18/75

6.

CLASSIFICATION OF

INFORMATION (enter

U, c,

Codeword)

U

7.

the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed

are

for emphasis)

Information handling

8.

SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Requesting clarification of items listed in request received from

Senators Mondale and Bakerregarding preventive actions; 9/24/75

report of the House Judiciary Committee by the General Accounting

Office; Annual reports from the office of origin to FBIHQs for

investigation of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.; pertinent

materials pertaining to Martin Luther King, JI. for the period

1/1 thru 4/4/68 previously made available. Clarification with

regard to Poor Peoples' Campaign and the Sanitation Workers

Strike in Memphis, Tenn; "Project Overshoe."

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE JO 3000 BY SPAALMKY

62-116395

TREAT AS YELLOW

FMK: Eral:

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

In 11639-1284X

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

379/ (6-75)

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 145

---

## Page 146

ire Ve fi. Hannall

I. G. Deptan

PANTIN LUTER KING, JI.

Ite. J. E. Adans

(Ir. G. f. Iclichael)

19/17/75

1 - Mc. i. Cochran

(It, I. il. Levino)

I - Mr. J.

A. Mints

1

- 150.

R. Wannall

food fas fond

Tre

O. CregaI

J. Ge Deogan

nIc. S. F. Phillips

This informativo nemorancur to rocord unsuccossiul

chlorts to pinpoint tho typovriter on which was typed an

anonynous Lotics apparently directed to subject, the original

os which was located in papers leît bchind on the retirenent

of former Assistant to the Director Willlan C, Sullivan.

Exanination of the questioned docurent by tho

Laboratory established that the typine was done on a Royzl

typerriter with pica stylo typo. No checked available

inventory rocords ruintained by tho Acministrative Division

as well as our own in IllD to locato all Royal typewriters

which wore in the thon Ioustic Intelllgonce Division (DID)

around 1904.

This scarch was based on the suspicion that tho

noto was typed by Sullivin on a typolier acessiblo to him

In 1904 when he was Aostatant Dircctor of the DiD.

Our checks rovcalod that thoro aro avnilablo only

four typewriters of the type sought which vero likely in the

DID in 1904. All foux are presontly in INID and threo of ther

vere xcadily clininated as not identical to that which produced

the questioned docent on the basis that all threo lavo

closed "45"

, whereas the questioned document has an open ended

Latinal in roos 1630 m

To fourth typowder, serial mber to 10-4020039 -1°

charged to the IS-2 Soction.

vas cramined by Suporvisor F. II. Devine of the Documont

Section

of the laboratory who advised that it is not identical to the

typewriter which produced the questioned document.

p/ 16

100-10S670

- 62-110305 (STRENDY 75)

SEP: 015

(10)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CONTINULD - OVEN.

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

NW 88644 DEC 2 9 1975

Docld:32989602 Page 146

---

## Page 147

Memorandun to Mr.

Hannall

Be:

Martin Luther king, Jr.

700-700670

Te are concucting no surther inquiry at this time

to establish the whereabouts of the typowriter which produced

the anonynous lotter.

RECOMMENDATION:

None.

For Infornation and record purposes

NW 88614 Docld:32989602 Page 147

---

