# 124-10193-10258

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10193-10258

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

94-37374-2ND NR 35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DONAHOE, S. B.

TO: BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE :

DATE: 09/23/1960

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFK, SPEECH, REACTION, UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 88608 Docld:32285482 Page 1

15

Date:

4/10/201

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

BS6O8 Date: 03-18-2025

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED, STATES GOVER LENT

Memorandum

TO

A. F. Belmont 05%

1 - Pars

-

Belmont

1

- Donahoe

1 - G. C.

MOOre

DATE:

9/23/60

1 - Ruehl

Telson

Mohi -

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

lauroachs

Malone

McGuire

Rosen .

FROM

SUBJECT:

S. 3. Donahooja JohN F. Kinusde

UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC REACTION IO

SPEECH OF SENATOR JOHN KENNEDY

INTERNAL SECURITY - UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC

-Sallivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

TOP SEGRET

1990

1628 REP/

NOV 8

ON: DADR

sunited Arab Republic (UAR) Ambassador to U.S. advised is

his country! 8/26/60 Senator John Kennedy delivered speech to

nassad suted speech contained altage and a on ted .

Chairman, Foreign Relations Committee,

who apologized for Kennedy's speech and explained it was dictated

CLAS

DECLA

by political expediency.

on 9/22/60

National Security Agency furnished an

ntercept of coded diplomatic traffic fromDAR Ambassador to CTS

Cairo, ated Emications intell men secret Daunt" as it

he 34 va

крамо

according to the intercept,

UAR

Ambassador claimed

Senator Fulbright stated Kennedy's speech was not an expression

of what could be considered

POLICY 0I Democratic administration

with Kennedy as President.

JAR Ambassador reportedly advised Senator FulbrightETS

'of Ambassador's official displeasure with Senator Kennedy's(TST

speech as it was replete with fallacies and bias and disparagements

Tegarding UAR rights and disregarded UAR feelings, thus indicating

enator Kennedy places personal interest before justicé and

nterests of U.S. Senator Fulbright was advised continued efforts

1o obtain Jewish votes at expense of Arabs will have serious con-

sequences, and (UAR Ambassador expected Senator Fulbright to exertTs

efforts

such activities.

Senator Fulbright stated he would

attempt to comply with this request f

• INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXC

UAR Ambassador advised his superiors Senator FulbrishtLTS,

contacted

him probably after consulting with Senator Kennedy

| OTHERMISE

whose speech was motivated by Senator Kennedy's desire:: to

obtain Jewish,.

Catholic, and Negro minority votes in order to

compensate for his loss

votes among Protestant majority which

opposes Kennedy, because,

of his Catholicism.

The Ambassador wag

SHOWN

VERCLASSFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR 3 26 47

WHERE

98 mac

5Z OCT 2

OP

SECRET (JEK)

NOT RECORDED Pe

46 0CT

118 SEP 29 1980

SEC,

copy

TO MR. TOISON

2o0750129329

Fata

ARIGINAL

COPY FLED IN

10912-376

NW 88608 Docld:32285482 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memo

RE:

Donahoe to Belmont

UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC REACTION TO

SPEECH OF SENATOR JOHN KENNEDY

of the opinion purpose of speech was solely to obtain Jewish

votes rather than to formulate party or

governmental policy

He believed such speeches are consistent with Zionist's efforts

to create breech between UAR and other governments

t was opinion of (UAR Ambassador that Senator Fulbright's Is.

is1t with him not be disclosec

RECOMMENDATION:

(8)

For information.

XE (4)

гера

0/24

TOP SECRET

-2-

NW 88608 Docld:32285482 Page 3

---

