# 124-10204-10206

## Page 1

Date :

10/21/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10206

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1137

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, TP

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE: 11/04/66

PAGES

:2

SUBJECTS : LST, BKG, RES, REL, TRA,

ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the

President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

olection act of 1952

NW 78318

Docld:34489575 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date: 11/4/66

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2>81)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SUBJECT:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

(00: TP)

Re New Orleans airtel to Director captioned

"LA COSA NOSTRA" dated 10/31/66.

Inclosed for Miami is a xerox copy of referenced

New Orleans airtel.

For information of New Orleans, SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

JR. spends a considerable portion of time at his Miami,

Florida residence, 523 Northeast 7lst Street and it is

suggested that New Orleans in the future when furnishing

information concerning TRAFFICANTE, include Miami as

recipient.

For further information New Orleans TRAFFICANTE'S

wife JOSEPHINE was involved in an automobile accident in

Tampa 5/18/66 and was confined St. Joseph's Hospital,

Tampa from dateoof accident until 6/19/66.

TP 120-C, who has daily access to TRAFFICANTE'S

l'ampa residence,

on 6/11/66, indicated no visitors had

seen at the residence during the past few days.

It is

Iurther noted that TRAFFICANTE's married daughter, her

husband, and their five year old son also maintain their

home at

TRAFFICANTE'S Tampa residence.

3

Bureau

- New Orleans

1

- Miami (Enc. 1) (RM) (92-88) RED

2 - Татра

JAA: Im

(8)

92-2881

11371

HE NOV 8 1986

NOV GO

ApprovedifT Special Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

NW 78318

Docld:34489575 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

In addition, records airport parking, Miami

Airport, indicate that TRAFFICANTE's automobile was not

on the parking lot during the period of 5/27/66 to 6/4/66,

which would suggest from past

experience that TRAFFICANTE

was actually present in the Miami, Florida area from

5/27/66 to 6/4/66.

Likewise, records indicate that

TRAFFICANTE's automobile was

on the parking lot from 6/4/66

until 6/10/66 which would suggest that TRAFFICANTE was not

in Miami.

Possibility therefore exists that MARCELLO'S

visit mentioned in referenced airtel would have been to

TRAFFICANTE'S Miami residence instead of his Tampa residence.

Furthermore, TP 120-C on 7/6/66 indicated that

TRAFFICANTE, his wife, their daughter, and her family had

spent some of the July 4th weekend at least at TRAFFICANTE'S

St. Petersburg Beach residence located at 3610 El Centro.

ulkewise, records of the airport parking lot, Miami, in-

dicate that TRAFFICANTE's automobile was parked on the airport

parking lot from 6/27/66 to 7/2/66 at which time it was

removed from the lot at 12:52 p.m. Records further re-

flect that the car again appeared on the parking lot at 6:07

7/2/66

and remained on the parking lot until 11:22 p.m.,

7/6/66. From TRAFFICANTE's habit pattern, it thus appears

that he was out of the Miami area from 6/27/66 to the after-

noon of 7/2/66 and then from evening of 7/2/66 to 7/6/66.

New Orleans's

attention is called to New Orleans

file 162-156 captioned "AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA" and New

Orleans file 92-320 captioned "JOSEPH MARCELLO, JR." which

indicates some contact between LAZZARA and MARCELLO and it

is an established fact that AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA iS a

very close associate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

LEADS

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

New Orleans is requested to furnish Tampa suitable

photographs of CARLOS MARCELLO,

JOSEPH MARCELLO, JR., and

their wives for exhibition to IP 120-C and other sources

familiar with TRAFFICANTE's associates.

Only photograph at

present available to Tampa of CARLOS MARCELLO is that con-

tained on LCN membership index card.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS

2

NW 78318

Docld:34489575 Page 3

---

