# 124-10185-10100

## Page 1

124-10185-10100

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10185-10100

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-475

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CREGAR. W. O.

TO: WANNALL. W. R.

TITLE:

DATE: 07/23/1975

PAGES: 32

SUBJECT:

CC, REQUEST, INSTR, AFFIL, LAW ENFORCEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

10/30/1998

STATUS

Redact

UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC MEMOS, 169 OF 201 PAGES NAR

HW 50953

DocId:32176434

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONA: FORM NO.

5010-106

MAY 1802 EDITION

10. 27

(-NITE ) STATES GU: ERA MENT

Memorandum

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD

TO

FROM

SL'BJECT:

TOP SECRET

Admin.

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

Comp. Syst

Mr. W. R. Wannall

Ext. Affair:

DATE: 7/23/75

Files & Co

Gen. Inv.

w. 0. Cregar

1

Mr.

J. A. Mintz

Ident.

Inspe

1

-

Mr.

W. R. Wannall

Іллки

1

-

MI.

V. V. Kolombatovic

Laboratory

Plan. & Ev.

1

-

SENSTUDY 75

Mr.

W.

0. Cregar

CHIS HE OBJECTON TO

Spec. Inv..

J/OR,

1

Mr.

T. J. McNiff

Training -

Legal Coun

Telephone R

AM. UNMATION

Lil.

sanitino

5668540/602 to S0o

SYNOPSIS:

× 4/30/981

(IFR) 5/19/98

On 6/20/75, we were advised that CIA had in 1973

prepared a 693-page document citing instances wherein CIA

operations may have exceeded its mandate. This document, in

sanitized form, was reviewed by Intelligence Division personnel

and was found to contain many references to this Bureau, some

of which dealt with operations of an extremely sensitive

nature.

(SSC) has had access to this document.

The senate sto

The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

At the specific request

of this Bureau, CIA on 7/15/75 made available 190 pages of

the document believed to be of interest to this Bureau. These

pages are submitted as

enclosuresto this memorandum, which

highlights some of the contents thereof. Items so highlighted

include various technical support CIA has provided this

Bureautin the area of electronic coverage of embassies in the

United States *handling of Iron Curtain country defectors¿

CIA notional and proprietary operations,&some of which were (X]

used to procure technical equipment for this Bureauz CIA-FBI

cooperation in training matters relating to counter-espionage

responsibilities; interception of mail from behind the Iron

Curtain; CIA briefing and debriefing of FBI sources traveling

abroad and CIAXinvolvement and interest in domestic dissident*

groups.

Mention is made in this document that while McCone

office were recorded.

attempts are being made to fully identify all rererences for

purpose of possible damage asse. sment to this Bugeatta 5 1975

ENCLOSURE Enclosures

SECRET

62-116395

TJM: 1hb|hb

(7)

81

= 1975 ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

CONTINUED - OVER

NH 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:: Senstudy 75

62-116395

Pages 70, 72, 73, 77 and 582

All refer to use of CiA

funds ($2,700,000) during fiscal years 1971 and 1972 to acquire

real estate for FBl uselagainst a common target in the

United States.

NSA islalso involved

in this project, which

is referred to as "MHDOZEN" by CIA. [S]

Pages 107, 108, 149-151, 155, 156, 158-161, 296, 353 and 354 -

All relate to CIA and the Watergate incident, contacts with

Watergate principals and inquiries made of CIA by FBI during

Watergate investigation.

Page 111

- *Refers to CIA proprietary interest in a legitimate

Maryland electronics firm for the purpose of obtaining elec-..

tronic equipment in violation of Iitle 18, Section 2512, U. S.

Code. On 9/10/71, FBI made inquiry at electronics firm and

subsequently was briered of ClA interest. Inquiry was then

terminated. & (U›

Page 112 - In approximately February, 1971, FBI requested

technical assistance of CIA in connection with sensitive project,

not further described.. Item also indicates that CIA, 'at the

request of FBI, had procured electronic equipment costing

approximately $48,000. Item indicates such purchases could

be legally accomplished under Economy Act of 1925.

Pages 118-119 - Listr electronic and photographic equipment

and material purchased by CIA for FBI, 1971 to 1972.

Page 136 - Indicates CIA-FBI project whereby analysis of

surveillance data entered into a CIA computer was discussed

with the FBI.

CONTINUED - OVER

TO

SECRET

- 5 -

HH 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO

SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

Pages 140-142 - Refer: to CIA assistance to FBI/in projects

utilizing code names MOHAWK, UNION, WUGRAVEL, ORKID and ROSE: (S)

Page 142 in general terms identifies the nature of these

operations.

Page 163 - Makes reference to knowledge of CIA officials

concerning CIA program for processing data relating to American

citizens believed to

be militants, subversives, terrorists, etc.

Pages 171, 190, 191 and 330 - Referi to 1968 CIA-prepared

document captioned "Restless Youth," which received extremely

limited dissemination as some information contained therein

pertains to U. S. student radicals and is indicative that CIA

had exceeded its charter.

Attorney General received copy,

March, 1969, but no indication FBI had received copy.

Page 1/8 - Indicates that ClA had conducted research project

on Robert Vesco.

Pages 180-182, 184, 185 and 202 - Refer: to CIA's collection

of information on individuals in the United States (mostly.

foreign), CIA accepting information relating to foreign

involvement with United States dissident groups when such

sources refuse to talk to FBI and relates that CIA had supplied

linguist to FBI to translate Arabic.

Pages 188, 189 and 330 - Concern information prepared by CIA

relating to visits of Stokely Carmichael to Caribbean area and

stokely

various ramifications connected therewith..

Information was

prepared for CIA use only, but one copy was "inadvertently" sent

to FBI.

Pages 193-194 - Refer. to CIA's preparation of document for

President Johnson dealing with links between foreign elements

and the U. S. peace movement.

CONTINUED - OVER

P SECRET

6

NH 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

Page 197 - Indicates CIA maintains a library of information

on some U. S. citizens and covertly looks at film cans

addressed to some U. S. citizens.

Page 203

- Relates that CIA, through Foreign Broadcast

Information Service and at the request of the Justice Department

and the FBI, furnished Justice Department with transcript and

broadcasts made by Jane Fonda in Hanoi and Ramsey Clark in

Vietnam.

Pages 221, 222 and 330 - Refer:, to seven instances where

CIA has furnished audio technical equipment and guidance to

this Bureau, #believed to be directed mainly against foreign

establishments in this country & (4)

Pages 234 and 242 - Indicate:

that CIA had described to

this Bureau Imagery Enhancement techniques germane to removing

distortion from photographs relating to an alleged bank robber.

Page 282 - Reports that the FBI desires to check for finger-

prints on all cryptogram messages mailed to high government

officials. Agency personnel were requested to arrange for

transmittal of such messages to FBI.

Page 329

"WESTPOINTER" - Concerns project similar to

"SPROINTER" (page 28). This project was conducted in the

San Francisco, California, area and involved mail, sent to the

United States

from Mainland China.

Page 329

"SALVAGE" - From May to September, 1967,LCIA

rented and maintained custodianship of an FBI monitoring post

in New York City targeted against the United Nations [s) This

was done at the request of a high official of the Bureau whot f

CONTINUED - OVER

TOP SECRET

-7. -

NH 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TOP

SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

desired to maintain the capabilities, despite the fact that

the FBI Director had ordered the operation terminated. In

September, 1967, operational assets were returned to the FBI

to reinitiate operational usefls(4)

Pages 334, 362, 363, 371, 373, 376-379, 384, 385, 468-470

and 615

- *eter, to coverage of a foreign establishment in

this country (later identified as (chilean EmbassyS) initiated

by FBl at the request of ClA and which ran intermittently

curing the period May, 1971, to February, 1973) Reference

to a press-reported burglary of this establishment

in May, 1973, and this Bureau's declination to investigate

the burglary on the basis of lack of jurisdiction. CIA's

code name for this operation is WUDOOR}(X)

Pages 457 and 485

- *Refer: to incident in 1962, wherein

CIA was involved in breaking and entering and the removal of

documents from an unknown location in Washington, D. C. The

President and the Secretary of State had been informed of the

operation.

Attorney General Kennedy instructed that the FBI

should not be advised unless: the Bureau first initiated

inquiry concerning the incident us

Pages 458 and 459 - Refer. to Bureau objection (when

Mr. Belmont was Bureau official) to CIA proposal that CIA

become involved in agreatly increased intelligence collection

effort against foreign establishments in this country 3(&(W)

Pages 446 and 461 - Indicate: that while McCone was CIA

Director, conversations over his phone and in his office were

recorded.

Page 482

'PUMPLODESTAR" - Refers to CIA project to target

assets against the "leftist" and communist milieu in various

parts of the world. These lassets are often directed against

similar

targets in the United States, and each case was reportedly

cleared with the FBISla)

CONTINUED - OVER

SECRET

8

HH 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 6

---

