# 124-10223-10159

## Page 1

Date

Page

09/29/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FBI

124-10223-10159

SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

TITLE

:. [ RESTRICTED ]

DATE

08/31/71

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

: JURE, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL, DOCUMENT

SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

09/29/98

APPROVAL OF NSA

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

NW 173-

Docld:2428

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2/00 (CUE R07-71 CAL

:31 AUG

1 1935:

iNSA/WR (NS)

INSA/HCF -WRMC (CV.)

FBI

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

DEAlI

COMINT

REPO*

wall

10/CUC/R07-71 E81

WARNING

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within

the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission

or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and road by only those

persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-

munications intelligence security regulations and who need the

information in order to perform their duties.

No diction is to be taken on information herein reported, re-

gardless of temporary advantage, if such action might have the

effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

INDEXFO

(59652

[09-5s0-210 - 5:797

NOT RECORDED

SEP 2 8 1979

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

FBI.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

FOI/PA # 21,326

APPEAL #.

CIVIL ACT.

DAIE4/71 85

INITILSGCL

NW 173

Docld: 2428

Page 2

---

## Page 3

• SECRET SPOKE

2/00/CUG / R07-71 32

ICU/ INSE, INTL, INTL,PROP/B,0.

NSA/VE (S)9352

NSA/WR

NSA/HCF - WRMC (CV)

INSURGENT GROUP APPARENTLY ACTIVE IN

CUBA

СиВА

Junt to apprent upe in de house Revolt andest sno

radio sources.

A broadcast on Monday morning, 30 August, from the

clandestine radiolstation, "the Voice of the New Cuba," which

is apparently & part of the cuban exte group.,

WAccion Sindical

Independiente".

ndependent Labor Action - 'ASI],'

the official

organ of the National Revolutionary Anti-Communist Front,

appealed to the Cuban people to try, in anyway possible, to

get in touch with a member of the Cuban Revolutionary Junta.

Previously, this radio station transmitted instruction

•o members of unidentified insurgent groups((A))

((A)) 2/00/CUG)RO3-71 and 2/00 [CucJR05-71. DS

NSA/WR PLUS WHITE HOUSE, SECSER

NSA/HCF -WRMC PLUS FBI

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGE (S)

& SECRET SPOKE

NW 173

Docld: 2428

Page 3

---

## Page 4

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

#: 5101-52201-781

NW 173

Docld:2428

Page 4

---

