# 124-10218-10058

## Page 1

124-10218-10058

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10058

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-1ST NR 130

• DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DOS

FROM: SAUNDERS. HAROLD H.

TO: THE SECRETARY

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 10/18/1976

PAGES: 10

SUBJECT:

CASTRO, FIDEL, SPEECH, ALLEGATIONS, CIA INVOLVEMENT, CUBANA

AIRLINER, BOMBING

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/12/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBIINFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

INGLASSIFIED

DATE 428

my Sosmie

9.30 AM

SECRET/SENSITIVE

October 19, 1976 -

ll chiga

10 - 20-

Additional Questions (answers and comments

needed by

late morning.

October 20)

OCribaner

d. Fas CIA had any relationship with Posada's investigative

agency ot

any other business he may have had?

2.

What was the nature of the contacts CIA had with Posada

after he was

terminated?

What did the contacts have to do

with Cuba? (S)

Who was the visa for that Posada approached the CIA and

the defense attache about in June 19763(5)

Dods the CIA believe that the source of TDFIR D3-315/10256

doliberately, delayed passing on Bosch's and Posada's remarke

about hitting a Cuban plane until after the incidents?

Does the CIA have any additional relevant information

on any of the people named in the draft menorandu, or

other information relating to the sabotage of the plane,

which It has not jet disseminated in TDFIR form?

Would CIA please provide whatever Information it has

concerning Orlando Garcia and Ricardo Morales so that para

• on page 8 of the draft memorandum can be completed?

2103

nicament

2 - 2173

3100

- 108 - 110

45-10848

NOT RECORDED

23 MAY 47 1977

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT ASSAN (TRED

JM 4/14197

File interlD

SECRET/ SENSITIVE

6 802

70 MAY 191977.

NH 50953

DocId: 32296782 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

• SENSITIVE

- 2÷

by Cuban counterrevolutionaries. Now we

decidedly believe the first assumption is correct.

The CIA directly participated in the destruction

of the Cubana aircraft in Barbados."

-The principal leaders of Cuban exile terrorist:

groups: are closely linked throughthe CORU organi-

zation to CIA activities against Cuba.

In his speech, Castro did not make any specific alle-

gations concerning a USG relationship with Orlando Bosch,

or Luis Posada (two Cuban exile activists who were arrested

by Venezuelan authorities in connection with the Cubana

crash). However,

the link with Bosch is implied since he

is reported to be chief of CORU, the umbrella organization

of Cuban exile terrorists.

Individuals Allegedly Involved

Hernan Ricardo Lozano

a. :

Involvement in the Crash:

He was arrested in

Trinidad on suspicion of having planted a bomb in the Cubana:

plane. Caracas radio announced on October 18 that he

(5)

confessed to sabotaging the airliner. ACIA source in

Caracas reports that Ricardo may have been trained in the

use of explosives and investigative techniques by Luis

posada. CIA information also reveals that Trinidadian

officials have told the Venezuelans that they have a taped e

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SENSITIVE

[telephone conversation between Ricardo and Posada discussing

their participation in the bombing,

Ricardo, a Venezuelan citizeng,

a photographer employed

by Posada in his industrial security firm in Caracas. - A

(S)

[CIA] source says that Ricardo is also a part time employee

of the Venezuelan, Intelligence Service (DISIP).

He reportedly

gathered photographic material on groups and individuals of

interest to DISIP and the Venezuelan Government.

He was

its Rest

hired by DISIP when Pasada was

official of that organization.

The CrAl source says that the Venezuelan Government is

concerned and would be faced with serious problems if these

connections become public knowledge:

b. Relationship with US:

CIA states it has had no

contact with RicardoS)

The US Legal Attache in Caracas,

Joseph leo, says that he has had some dealings with Ricardo for

in expediting visa

photographs and biographical data on members of the Cuban

Imbe in caracas. Apparently, the material came Exon pIsir:

• Ricarco

files

During one visit, attempts,

I to solicit suggestions from

the

Legal Attache on activities which might be directed

against the Cuban Embassy by an anti-Castro group to which he

belonged. Leo says he discouraged Ricardo, Pointing out that.

the US Government was attempting to prevent disruptive and

SECRET

SENSITIVE

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SENSITIVE

terrorist activities by anti-Castro groups in the US, and

Ricardo never repeated the suggestion.

Fxeddy Lugo

a..

Involvement in the crash: Lugo was arrested in

Trinidad with Ricardo on suspicion of having planted the bonb

aboara the Cubana plane. A(CINsource alleges that Lugo

apparently was only peripherally involved in the bombing and

is-not considered to be one of the leading participants:

Lugo, a Venezuelan citizen, is also a photographer

employed by Posada's company

According to la CIA source,

also worked for DISIP under the same arrangements noted above

for Ricardo.

b..

Relationship with.US: [CIA states that it has had

no contact with Lugo.

The name and phone number of US Legal

Attache leo were discovered in lugo's address boo when he nguts

was arrested in Trinidad..

Leo says that he has had ca

101

contact with Lugo and speculates that his name and phone were

furnished to Lugo by Posada.

Luis Posada Carriles

a. ..

Involvement in Crash:

Posada was arrested on

October 14 in Venezuela along with Orlando 'Bosch and three

others accused of conspiring to sabotage the plane.

Posada,

a Cuban exile who is now a Venezuelan citizen, is vehemently

anti-Castro and is suspected of having been the main supporter

of Bosch during the latter's stay in Venezuela prior to being

SECRET

SENSITIVE

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 5

---

## Page 6

20u 211

SECRET

SENSITIVE

arrested in November 1974. Posada was formerly chief of the

counterintelligence division of the Venezuelan intelligence

service, DISIP.

b.

Relationship with US. XCIA says that Posada was a

paid informant. The relationship was discontinued in July

1967, but contact was reestablished in October of the same

year] When he lost his position in DISIP in March 1974, CIA

says the relationship was "amicably terminated." Though he

was not paid thereafter, CIA continued to have accasional

contact with him until February 1976 when a formal written

agreement of termination was signed. The latest contact

between CIA representatives and Posada occurred in June 1976

when CIA declined to assist Posada on a visa matter. Is,

The US army attache has also used a Posada business

partner (also a Cuban exile, whose name we do not have) as

an informant (though not as an agent).

rosada during the latter's employment by DiSTe and after

his resignation, Posada continued to contact Leo on rare

occasions, usually in order to obtain personal service in

regard to visa requests for relatives and business associates,

SepTemBer 30,1926 70 OctoBer!: 1973

CANALIS

the last being Ricardo on October 1, 1976 Leo says he has

10\8

seen Posada on about three occasions since 1973, the last being

in June 1976 when Posada inquired if the FBI had interest in

a Venezuelan who had hired two of his "operatives" as body

guards.

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

* SENSITIVE

6

Orlando Bosch

a.. Involvement in Crash: As noted above, Bosch was

arrested in Venezuela for alleged involvement in the Cubana

crash. In late June, a CIA source reported that an exile

group headed by Bosch planned to bomb a Cubana flight between

Panama and Havana. An FBI sburce. has alleged that one aitemp

was made but the bomb did not detonate. A second try occurred

in Jamaica on July 9, but the bomb exploded before the suit-

case in which it was carried was put aboard the plane.

According to CIA sources

Venezuelan President Carlos

Andres Perez is said to be sympathetic to Bosch and has

permitted him to travel freely in the country and solicit funds

with the understanding: that Venezuela would not be used as a

base of operations or place of refuge. Bosch reportedly promised

not to engage in terrorist activity while in Venezuela and

received a token $500 contribution from Perez. Another CIA

source reported that after Bosch's arrival in Caracas in September,

he stated during a fund raising dinner that "Now that our

organization has come out of the Letelier job looking good, we

are going to try something else." A few days later, Posada

allegedly said, "we are going to hita Cuban airliner" and

"Orlando (Bosch) has the details.".

b. Relationship with US. CIA says there are no current

or recent agency contacts with Orlando Bosch

The US is

currently attempting to have Bosch deported from Venezuela

SECRET

SENSITIVE

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

•SENSITIVE

-7-

to the US, where he is subject to immediate imprisonment for

parole violation spell out.)

Frank Castro

a. Involvement in Crash: Venezuelan officials reportedly

believe that Castro, (head of the FLNC terrorist organization,

a component group in CORU) is deeply involved in the crash,

though we have no details of his supposed involvement.. Erank.

Castro was in Venezuela in late September 1976 and in mid-

October was back in Miami.. Frank Castro has admitted to FBI

agents that he met with Bosch in Caracas on September 26 or

27, but denies any personal knowledge of the bombing of the

Cubana plane.

b.

Relationship with US; [CIA says there are no current

or recent agency contacts with Frank Castro

who is an

American citizen with permanent residence in Santo Domingo.

Orlando Garcia and Ricardo Morales Navarrete

a. Involvement in Crash: Orlando Garcia is President

Perez' security and intelligence advisor, and Morales is Garcia's

deputy; both are Cuban exiles who are now Venezuelan citizens.

A CIA sourcefclaims that Garcia was directed to protect and

assist Bosch during his stay in Venezuela. Another CIA source (s)

reported that Garcia and Posada met Bosch upon his arrival and

escorted him to his hotel.. Both Garcia and Morales reportedly

attended the fund-raising dinner during which Bosch allegedly

made the remark about the "Letelier job," and after the Cubana

SECRET

SENSITIVE

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET:

SENSITIVE

crash Garcia may have made an effort to get Bosch out of

Venezuela. It is possible, therefore that Garcia and/or

Morales may have known in advance about the operation which

led to the bombing of the plane.

b...

Relationship with US:

Felix Martinez Suarez

a.

Involvement in Crash: None, except by the alleged

association with Ricardo, contained in Fidel Castro's charges.

b. Relationship with US: [CIA says that Suarez was a

CIA media asset from 1961 to January 1974 when he was

terminated as a result of his exposure in the Venezuelan media. 6)

Castro's allegation regarding CORU: With regard to

Castro's charge on CIA links with CORU, an FBI report of

September 17 states that "a confidential source abroad" claims

to have been told by Roberto Carballo (leader of the Association

of veterans of the Bay of pigs, AVBC, one of the component mello

organizations of CORU) that in July of this year Carballo and 9/1"

three other Cuban exiles had been approached by representatives

& SECRET

SENSTT.TVF

NH 50953 DocId: 32296782 Page 9

---

