# 124-10204-10146

## Page 1

Date :

Page :

10/07/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10146

RECORDS

SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 92-2781-97

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

:

DATE

PAGES

05/20/59

1

SUBJECTS

LST, REL, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

10/07/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President

John F. Kennedy Assassination

:Becous Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318

Docld:34489544 Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

..

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

DATE: 5/20/59

SUBJECT:

SAC, MIAMI (92-88)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00 - Miami)

On 5/11/59, MM-416-C furnished information

concerning the captioned subiect to SA JAMES P. O'NEIL.

The informant stated that recently publicity

was afforded the forth coming marriage of the subiect's .

daughter; MARY JO TRAFFICANTE, to AUGUST C. PANIELLO.

PANIELLO, according to the informant, is the son of the late

DI. SANTIAGO PANIELLO and Mrs. ELVIRA PANIELLO, presently re-

siding in the Embassy Apartments, Tampa, Florida.

The subiect's daughter is currently attending

the University of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, and is a member of

the Sophomore Class.

PANIELLO, a graduate of the University

of Tampa, is a student at the Stetson University College of

Law, St. Petersburg, Florida.

The informant related that the wedding, scheduled

for an unspecified date in 6/59, was opposed by the subject and

his wife, partially because PANIELLO was previously married and

divorced. The informant stated that the wedding, according to

information from sources in Tampa, will take place in Havana,

Cuba, and the reason given is to avoid any publicity and the

subject's presence in Tampa.

This information is being furnished to the Bureau

for transmittal to the Legat, Havana, as there is the possi-

bility that the wedding may be the occasion for a gathering of

associates of TRAFFICANTE, particularly those highly placed in

the Underworld.

'ureay

REC- 36

92-2289496

25 MAY 25 1959 /

3. a Miami

(•1/ - 137-225)

-JPO: ded

(7)

71427

syst

F, lavana

66 MAY 27 1959 -

27/59

NW 78318

Docld:34489544 Page 2

---

