# 124-90041-10023

## Page 1

124-90041-10023

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90041-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3856-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 10/26/1959

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

CRUZADA REVOLUCIONARIA ANTI COMUNIST A

JOSE RASCO BERMUDA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

• COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

• NH 50953

DooId: 32325941

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

- 2 =

CS-3/416,495

with his local supporters through three women who visit him periodically. He

has been apprised of the activities of his followers in Miami and has requested

that $20,000 be furnished to a 40-man group of his followers in Camaguey

Province. The Camaguey group is the one he has charged with making a raid on

La Cabaña prison and freeing him.

Under the orders of Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro, one PRUNA Blanco

(fma.)' has

con acted one Narciso NAVARROP

who has a group of followers

1s Pinar del

Rio and has arms, ammunition, and dynamite buried on his fart

PRUNA Blanco also has a

group of followers in finar del Prio Province which

is led by Jesus CABRERA end former sergeant MARTINEZ (fnu) is the CABRERA](s)

group is called Legión Democrática Cubana (IDO, Cuban Democratie Leglon 51

The buried arms and dynamite are to be used in sabotage and assassination

attempts.

7. Gun a a to port an eat are one to to contat a ro

to the /001 a post o Liometers north of Los Palactos (22 36, 83 160).

SLide men will be waiting at this point and will signal the plane making the

drop with four flashlighte

Besides the two groups in Pinar del Rio province and the group in Camaguey®

Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro also has two groups in Matanzas and Santa Clara

provinces. 10

On about 25 August 1959 Manuel BLANCO Navarro, in Miami,wrote a letter to one of

his followers in Cuba.

Enclosed with the letter were two messages which BLANCO

(Sic). One of the messages reads as follows:

"Dear Brother:

I am writing these lines to accompany a letter from my friend

Dr. Rodriguez Couceiro, in whose house I am staying since I found

out that they have arrested Leonel and that I cannot return there.

As you will see in the letter, I am sending you a series of instruc

tions to see if we can maintain the group that is presently without

any leaders.

Just as you have probably read in the newspapers, they

have caught all the leaders in the roundup. This doesn't mean any-

thing more than that we shall be delayed until we are reorganized

again. Only about 100 were arrested, and the group mmbered about

3,000.

As he (my friend) informs you, I do not believe that you ought

to visit Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro in La Cabaña prison, You should

send someone in whom you bave confidence. In the new contacts that you

made do not use your own name. Use an alias..

so thats if anyone

should talk, they will not be able to identify you

You sbould pro

tect the place where you live. When you have meetings, hold them at

prearranged places, never in your home. I know that you know how to

do these things, but I want to warn you to be careful and use other

persons to make your contacts. Don't do it personally.

The principal

objective is to is able to maintain yourself as the leader of the

movement st least until you select chiefs if your work prevents you

from leading in Habana.

We have made contact here with a large group which was not caught

and which is also organized from Autentico people.

This group did not

Lose its leaders, since, as I says it was not caught because it had

joined us only a few days previously. This group is almost ready for

actions so it is urgent that you reorganize our people rapidly in order

SoF-C-R-F-T

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

50953

DocId:32325941 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SaE-C-R-E-T•

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

3.0

CS-3/416, 495

that Don Fidel may not last until the New Year®

In the nant letter we

shall send more details and possibly give the main outlines of the

address which you already have for the time being. I thiak that we

shall soon change residence, but I will send you the new address as

soon as we do.

When you reply, use the name "little grandmother

(abuelita)

since as you know, wur me" la also "burned". Many regards to all

and an embrace from your sister

Haydee. [5)

10. The second message reads as followss

Miami 21 August 1959

Orlando VELASCO S)

Dear Friend:

As I suppose you already know, because of the treason of Willlar

Morgan 12and ClOtGUTTURREZ Meneyel?, the leaders of the Organizatior

have been arrested, and it is most necessary that our people be

reorganized so that the movement is not lost. The only person who is

able to do so is you I know that the responsibility is very greate

but I also know your abilities, and we are sure that you will be able

to do the job.

As a first objoctive, it is necessary to establish

contact with

Captain Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro. He is the chief of our organization

and will continue to be.

He is in prison in La Cabaña, according to

our information, but is allowed to receive visitors. He knows you

since you met each other in his office. You can introduce yourself as

the brother of laydee. He will give you names of parsons and instruc

tions to follow. However, it is very important that, while he remains

a prisoner, you set up a courier so that you don't have to make sub

sequent visits. This would be dangerous in the extreme.

With respect to the rebels, be very careful in making your contacts,

since one lesson is enough. There is one safe person whom you can trust,

i De on beat and on at etee tell on Sio

You can see

that he will not

mistrust you, you can tell him that the last time ke saw him was at a

dinner on the terrace of the Union Club Stell him that it rained a lot.

Pao out on linter Pry. oy at be trusted, soon, and don't

shormation 1s contradictory.

make the contacts with them directly.

It is better that you designate

another person for the purposs. Ultrashortay but very eggygoing.

Another group you can contagt is that of Jorge

GUTTERREL

in the Rosita de Hornedo.

Izmirreje

Tell him that you were sent by Francisco

GONZALEZ, who is in Montolair,, New Jersey; that here we are united;

and that he-should join his group to our morement. I shall send you

more information on this group.

You should also seer. Valentin ARENAS Amiga?

His office is

Tell him that you come

e5 my behalf and

In which venture speaking of CASTRO.

from New York

He leads a group of followers of lose Ignacio HASCOl 5)

Ftimeslgte.") (aio) of the Agrupacion.

S-F-C-R-E-T

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

50953

DocId: 32325941 Page 3

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

- 4 =

CS-3/416,495

You should

(onviado) and tell him to recall the interview we had in the lobby

of the Savoy Hilton of New York..

Up to recently he had a group.

for inancial matters you can gge Señor BELTS) a friend of

S) Haydee, and Señor ALin BUERO Palla 5) To contact

secretary Senor Jorge MACHADO and tell him that you come on my

behalf and that of the word Sugar (sic.) / It is very important

problem there.

You should

The cousin of Rosaritoels Elen'sOTe Martinez?s

(Sto. 7J She receives our letters and can help you.

as the brother of (Haydee(S) No one else should see her but you, and no

one should know that you see her. You must be extremely careful to

Well, I believe that this is enough for now.

Be extremely careful,

and reorganize our rank and file, since the thing is soon.

(signature illegible)

Field Comments

20.

30

Previously reported as a Cuban Rebel Army captain heading a counter

revolutionary group in Cuba. BLANCO was one of the chief

conspirators

arrested in August 1959, when the Cuban Government, smashed a plot

against it:

Brother and father respectively, of Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro.

Presidential candidate of the Cuban Feople's Party in the 1958. Cuban

elections.

He took asylum in the Venezuelan Embassy in July 1959 and

was last reported in exile in Caracas on 26 July.

At that time he

reportedly said that he would soon leave for New York, where his

family was.

"to join CRAC.

5. The BLANCO group was reportedly without funds or arms as of 31 August 1959

In a memorandum dated 16 September 1959 the U.S. Air Attache in Habana

reported information from a wife of one of the prisoners in La Cabana

that CRAC had gathered $1,000,000 to get Reinaldo BLANCO, Enrique

OVARES, Gustavo de los REYES, Kuku BRINGUIER, and Dr. CAINAS Milanes out.

of prison.

OVARES, REYES, and CAINAS are also high-level conspirators

who were arrested in the roundup of August 1959.

70.

According

to a memorandum dated 26 August 1959, from the Protection

of the American Embassy, Habana, an American citizen who had

just been released from La Cabana prison after five months imprison-

ment reported that a group of approximately 460 political prisoners

and former prisoners are actively engaged in counter-revolutionary

Three hundred of the group were said to be at liberty

in Habana, approximately 100 still held in prison, and about 70 in

S=E-C•R-E-T

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL,

NN 50953

DocId: 32325941 Page 4

---

## Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

CS-3/416,495

open rebellion in Pinar del Rio under Luis LARA Crespo, a

former corporal

of the BATISTA army. Among the leaders of the group was one Fernando

PRUNA Blanco, Who was said to be held in the Castillo Prison at the time.

PRUNA Blanco Enu) may be a relative of or identical with/fernando PRUNA

Blanco (5)

Identified by Source as the brother of (Angel NAVARRO|previously reported

as coordinator of a group of counter-revolutionaries in Miami.

9. On 22 September 1959 source reported that this army drop had been scheduled

between 8 and 10 pom. on 25 September 1959.

100

Source did not know the size of any of the groups.

11.

This probably refers to Dr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro reported by a

usually reliable source in July 1959 to be a leader, together with onellose_>

Luis PUJOL,of a Cuban counter-revolutionary movement. RODRIGUEZ Couceiro S)

was reported by the same source to be a first cousin of Francisco RODRIGUEZ

Tamayo, aka "El Mejicano* (the Mexican) The Habana telephone directory

Lists alDr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ COuCeiTOs 5)

a lawyer, at Pasco No. 652, Habana.

12.

Morgan and GUTIERREZ are two Cuban Rebel Army majors who penetrated

the

conspiracy that was smashed in August 1959.

13. The Habana talophone directory lists anion chuda (San Lazaro Noo 120) Habando

1a This is possibly a reference tolor. Valentin ARENAS Arminan reported in July

149 by a usually reliable source as the notary handling the purchase

Banco Ultranaz or Spanish pro-Franco interesto. The Banco Ultramar sas later

absorbed by the Banco Continental Americano, now known as the Banco Continental

Cubano 1(5)

15.

The Habana telephone directory liste alose to RASCOl at Avenida 21 No.

Mariansod

10. 7406,

16.

The Habana

offices atfobiepo No. 25T2 abando

telephone directory lists alanco Irust company of triba with main

17°

l'his is possibly a reference to Enriqu

18 June 1959 as an executiveft the Lilio LOBo ganization and former

newspaper business manager who was released by Cuban Government authorities

on 16 June. LIACAland his son, Dr. Enrique LLACA, JoShad been held on

harges of conspiracy. A United Pres

report dated 24 July 1959 at Santiago,

hile, said that Enrique LLACA Orbiz Sa lawyer and one-time economic editos

of piario de La Marina 5,

This is possibly a reference to Guillermo

BELT, former Cuban Ambassador to

the United States, under BATISTA J(S)

19• Wealthy Cuban businessman with large

sugar interests.

-29• Wealthy Cuban businessman.with_large_sugar_interests..-

S-E-C-R-E-T

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

HH 50953

DocId: 32325941 Page 5

---

