# 124-10279-10258

## Page 1

124-10279-10258)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

• 4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10258

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-221-417

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1960

PAGES:

• 10

SUBJECTS:

NRO, INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY, MATEOS, LOPEZ, SOUTH

AMERICAN TRIP, CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUATION,

CUBAN EXILE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

49.1

NW 50953

DocId: 32301923

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(SECRET

S-10: 34, 05 PhRE

COMAN INED

Date:

TO :

2/10/60

Director, FBI

2/13/18 J5G

fferial

MSCA Ne /2/22/07 Request

re Rothron

Fron:

Legat, lexico (100-743G)

Subject: LONTHLY INTELLIGENCE SUMINARY

SYNOPSIS

Declagsily Du: BADR E/s/35

LOPEZ LATEOS' SOUTH AMERICAN TRI? (cont. (page 2): Recent South

American trip or Mexican President gave emphasis to need for

coordinated effort in resolving economic problems of latin

America. Talks deolt with stimulation of cormerce, but for

principal importance of trip seems to have

emotional rather than materialistic. DAVID ANARC SIQUEIROS

(page 3): While recently in Caracas, Venezuele, SECUETROS made

statements critical of both Mexican President and Mexican

Revolution, Mexican administration and public angerod by remarksa

CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUARION (page 3):

Cuba. Heeting sponsored

by Society of riends of cuba held at Mexico City, 1/17/60, to

demonstrate support for Cuban Government.

Nicaragua:

Report

received that Cuban Government still planning to support invasion.

of Nicaragua with pro-Conmunist elements.

la1t1: Political

situation reported to be deteriorating. PARTIDO COMUNISIA {U]

VEXICANO - PCIL COMMUNIST PARTY OF MEXICO, page 6) :

XIII

National congress, scheauled for 2/22-20/60, again postponed

to provide more time for holding of State Congressos and

preparation of discussion material.

POCM representatives to be

Invited to agtend congress.

Federal District Committee to step

up dues collections and general cell activity. JOM held plenur

1/11-14 60 1 PAREIDO POPULAR - PP (POPULAR PARTY (pagE 1):

PP being reorganized and members being solicited to submit

background and other data. PP held annual New Year's banquet

on 2/6/60.

PP Inaugurated Pioneers, Boy Scout type organizatico,

on. 2/5/60.

VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO (page 8):

LOMBARDO WAS

principal speaker at PP New Year's banquet and

generally spoke

favorably

America.

SOVIET INTELLIGENCE ACLIVIIID

VASILEVICH BAKULIN identitled as new soviet principay or MEX 875)

Latter made

to los Angeles

1960, End reportca Cs.

to Soviets!

14-2=8-417

9

28 - Bureau

- Mexico City S

e521

EC. DerA)

-SED 75 1960

34,;

C1, Rx, J.

ironet Rin

lay the lings!

HM 50953 DocId:32301923

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"SECRET

MC 100-743G

Cuban Exile Activities

par.

sources within Cuba reflected that FIDEL CASTRO had prepared a

decree ordering the United States to vacate the Guantanamo

Naval Base. According to this information, the decree was

originally prepared in late November, 1959, but had not yet

The PSI further reported that he had heard reports in

viams, Florida, of an Invasion at empt which allegedly woulo

ve made by supporters of ROLANDO, MASFERRER, a Cuban exile who

resides in Miami. The Pot stated that MAShaRKeR, ROBERTO

FERNANDEZ MIRANDA, NORMAN OTHMAN, and their associates form a

stated that from the information available to him in Miami he

attempt at invading cuba ors if an attempt were made, that it

NouLd be successful. (a) (u)

Nicaragua

PSI DE LEON also advised on January 28 that he had

received Informatton erom within cura

that ERNESTO "CHE"

vicaraguan exiles and Cuban

Invade Nicaragua.

This source advised that approximately 400

guerrillas have been trained to make up the invasion force.

The PSI stated he had received no information as to the timing

of such an attempt, but expressed doubt that it would occur in

the immediate future in view of the concern of the Cuban Govern-

ment over a possible early invasion attempt by Cuban exiles. (CLU)

-5-

CECRE

1: 578

NW 50953

DocId: 32301923 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"SECRET!

MC 100-743G

age and is disposed to follow an international policy that

will not only benefit Mexico but its sister Latin American

countries who are bound together not only by historical ties

but by the same economic and social conditions and identical

In apparent reference to DAVID ALFARO SIQUEIROS, 546it; •

leading PCM figure, he stated that some people, who are unablet

to understand national and international politics although

they expound them daily, have been critical of President LOrE.

MAOS trip. During the course of the President's tri

SIQUEIROS made a statement to the press wherein he criticized

the President for not accepting a bid to visit Cuba and stated

that President LOPEZ MATEOS was merely laying the ground work

for a subsequent visit by President EISENHOWER. LOMBARDO waS

critical of President LOPEZ MATEOS in certain respects,

particularly in connection with the imprisonment of the

railroad strike agitators and PCM and POCM leaders.

ACTION TAKEN:

None.

Will be disseminated in the

next

report on the PP.

(SOVIET INWELLIGENCE ACTIVILIES](S)

[AROB (S)

"VALENTIN,

CEx-87 retrieved Soviet Message No. 22) on January 22J(5)

SECRET

50959 DocId:32301923 Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

MC 100-743G

- 4 28022

1960.

contrary to the ustal

custom this (message was typed (S

Instead of being on undeveloped 35 mm. film.

The Soviets LS

Inquired how and Where LA 4199-S keeps the notes of his

be more easily secured.)

MEX-87 deposited his Message No. 22 in the established (S

dead drop on January 25, I960, and generally answerea the

questions posed in the prior Soviet message. (5)

ACTION TAKEN:

None, pursuant to specific Bureau

Instructions.

c.

=10-

SECRED

30953

DocId: 32301923

Page

---

