# 124-90124-10055

## Page 1

124-90124-10055

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90124-10055

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3224-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MX

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/11/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MANUEL FUEGO

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId:32335497

Page 1.

19

---

## Page 2

MC 97-71

SECRET

It 1s pointed out that CIA in both

through his close contact with It. Colonel JOSE LUIS

AGUILAR DE LEON, who is the confidential source abroad

mentioned in the accompanying repart. J(@u/2nd s57 oF ARchers

DECLASS DELL HAME

SCOTT HOLLOWAY Shead of the CIA Station, oN 2-21-4

Nicaragua, advised on

in regard to this cases he was made available for

contact by HOLLOWAY and

anything to do with WERBELL, SMITH and associates.

He stated he feels the offer to sell arms and ammunition

and provide mercenaries which was made to the

Guatemalan Government was only

of secondary interest

MICHAEL F. TAYLOR of the CIA Station,

S)(American Embassy] Guatemala City, advised on

September 10, 1962, that It was ascertained that

the woman who accompanied WERBELL, to Managua 18

dUCK LUCHIEN, who owns the Duplex Bullding in

Guatemala City. She returned to Guatemala City

2 or 3, 1962.

S TAYLOR advised that when ARTHUR L. SMITH

left Guatemala City on September 3, 1962, he left as

- forwarding address 1025 connecticut Avenue, suit

405, Washington, D.C.

Iccording to TAYLORY NERBELL tOl

the manager of

the Maya excelsior Hotel that ine had

the clearance of CIA.

(S) (TAYLOR stated

that MIGUELITO YDIGORAS, son

of the fresident of Guatemala, advised that neither

WERBELL nOx SMITH had made personal contact with him.

At the request of MIGUELITO YDIGORAS, the Judicial

-2-

SECRET

HH 50953 DocId:32335497 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MC 97-71

SECREI

Police put a surveillance on WERBELL and SMITH, which

apparently was rather obvious.

The police also

nonitored their

one telephone call to MARIO GARCIA KOHLY in Washington,

D.C., and another to a man by the name of DIGGS or BRIGGS

He also made a telephone call to

handy or Jones and handy, Marine Architects, Miami,

Florida. SMITH received a telephone call which was

reported as having been from ARNOLD in Washington but

5) TAYLOR] stated that CIA believes it was from FRANK

said is connected with MARIO GARCIA KOHLY

WERBELL

tried to make telephonic contact with

FRANK MARSHALL, Minister of Public Security of Costa

Rica.

*(u)

In telephone calls made just prior to 8-20-62

mention was made of meeting someone referred to only.

as

El Salvador.

the meeting took place in san Salvador as planned.

STAYLOR had previously mentioned on 8-13-62 that when

WERBELL and SMITH first contacted MIGUELITO YDIGORAS

during early August, 1962, they stated they were

waiting for PINEIRO and seemed to think PINEIRO was

someone YDIGORAS would know.

they stated they woul

contact-him as soon as PINEIRO arrived. LAYLOR advise

on 9-10-62 that it had been ascertained that Colonel

JOSE PINEIRO PAEZ was apparently the one they were

expeoting..

5 TAYLORI stated that the telephone conversation

between SMITH,

Police planet Yetee

of the individuals making the calls.

• - 3-

SECKCH

NH 50953 DocId:32335497 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MC 97-71

SOURCES

SECRE

The confidential source abroad is It. Colonel

JOSE LUIZ AGUILAR LEON, Minister of Labor and

meT are National Police, Guatemala City, GuatemalaJ (0)(50

I'-1 ISNORL PALLAIS, Iirst cousin of President tuls

ANASTASIO SOMOZA Oi NICaLagua,

who handles financial enterprises of General SOMOZA&

Located in instant report.

Source concealed as he 18

a contact of CLA, Managua, Nicaragua.

CLASSIFICATION

anohosed report 1s classified "Confidential"

tas it contains information from an officiallof & foreign CS

government and from an individuat who has close

connections with a second foreign government. Both # CS

requested the Information be regarded as confidentia

STATUS

While this case and also the case on MANUEL

FUEGO, RA - Central America, are being placed in an

RUc status, they will be reopened if any pertinent

information 1s received.

SEGREs

50953

DocId:32335497

Page 4

---

