# 124-10204-10203

## Page 1

Date: 10/21/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10203

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-2781-1134

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, TP

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE

10/12/66

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

:LST, LCN ACT,

ASSOC,

TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 10/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA

• : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the

President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

NW 78318

Docld:34489573 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

10/12/66

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

(00: TP)

One copy being furnished Las Vegas as informa-

tion has previously been obtained by Tampa indicating

TRAFFICANTE's alleged presence in Las Vegas although con-

tact with logical Las Vegas informants and source of in-

formation has not established TRAFFICANTE's presence.

Enclosed for Butte is one photo of SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., taken 9/30/66.

For info Butte and WFO, SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR•,

were located by

the New York City PD on the evening of 9/22/66 at La Stella

Restaurant, Queens, New York.

TRAFFICANTE has been re-

ported to be the "boss" of LCN in Florida.

On 9/23/66, TP 41-C advised that during the

Labor Day weekend TRAFFICANTE had been at his St. Peters-

burg Beach residence and made the statement that he had

recently been in London, England and that gambling was

profitable. At this time, TRAFFICANTE indicated that he

Bureau

2 - Butte (Enc. 1)

1

- Las Vegas

* (92-681) (Info)

+608 92-27111134

2

2 - Tampa

OCT 1 4 19601

JAA: bb

(10)

250

Approved:

prove OCT Steel sent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

NW 78318

Docld:34489573 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

had flown from London to California, then to Las Vegas,

Nevada, then to New York, and then to Miami, before return-

ing to Tampa for the Labor Day weekend.

TRAFFICANTE appar-

ently did not detail time in London, nor give any indication

of how much time he had spent in each of the above-mentioned

locations.

TP. 41-C of the opinion from TRAFFICANTE'S

remarks that he had had a companion on his London,

England,

trip, but identity not known at this time. Investigation

has indicated that British officials are aware that DINO

CELLINI is Managing Director of the Colony Club, Berkley

Square, London, and CELLINI has in the past been identified

as an associate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

In addition, on October 7, 1966, TP 120-C ad-

vised that sometime prior to 9/22/66, TRAFFICANTE's 5-year-old

grandson, SANTOS PANIELLO, who resides with his mother, mrs.

AUGIE (MARY JO) PANIELLO, at 2505 Bristol, Tampa, had re-

ceived a box containing a very expensive-looking cowboy

suit.

TP 120-C indicated that this box containing the

cowboy suit was from the Indian Trading Post, Yellowstone

National Park, but that the

wrapping, which would indicate

air mailed and how addressed, had been removed from the box.

For the additional information of Butte and WrO,

TRAFFICANTE has in the past, when securing air passage,

used the names contained on the ICN membership card index

and the names T. MOETOS, JAMES BRUNO, ED VALDEZ, and JOE

GARCIA, the latter name having been used by TRAFFICAN an

traveling to the meeting in New York during september 1900.

TRAFFICANTE has a current U.S. passport issued in the

name of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., # F-391387, issued 5/28/65

at Miami, Fla. Previous investigation has indicated that

Bureau of Customs had placed stops with INS concerning

TRAFFICANTE's foreign travels, but Tampa not in possession

of any indication that INS or

Bureau of Customs has infor-

mation that TRAFFICANTE recently out of the U. S.

Tampa has submitted FD-315 requesting F-1 and

F-3 type stops.

LHM to be forwarded to LEGAT, London, being pre-

pared and will be furnished to the Bureau for dissemination.

LEADS:

REVIENED BY.

JFK TASK FORCE

ON

BUTTE DIVISION

1/M/95 de

JI RELEASE HA FULL

O RELEASE IA PART

2

E TOTAL DENIAL

NW 78318

Docld:34489573 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

AT YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK

Will, at Indian Trading Post, attempt to deter-

mine details of purchase including date purchased, name

used in making purchase, and any other information that

would aid in placing TRAFFICANTE at any location at any

given time.

WFO

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

Will, at Bureau of Customs, determine nature of

stop requested

and any information obtained by Customs as

a result of such stop.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS:

3

NW 78318

Docld:34489573

Page 4

---

