# 124-10204-10495

## Page 1

Date

Page

05/09/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10204-10495

RECORDS

SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 105-95507-1, 2, 3, 4,

5

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, NK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE

: 01/31/61

PAGES

: 45

SUBJECTS

:EEA, REL, RES, TRA, BKG,

EMP, PRO-CASTRO ACT, ARREST,

ARMS SMUGGLING, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/08/98

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 3 MEMO, A/T,

RPT, 5 S/S

2025 Release under the President

John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 1

---

## Page 2

tion)

NeWARk

+ OPT ONAL FORM NO. 10':

594-104

UNITED STATES GO!

NMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-95507)

DATE:

5/5/61

RuB

ivor

FROM

SAC, NEWARK (105-9440)

ALL INPORMATION CONTATIEN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT.

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER, Aka.

DATE 4-29-9/BYS/8MAGIE

IS-CUBA

CONFIDENTIALFAS

Re report of SA HERBERT L. BLOM at Newark dated

4/25/610

Bureau authority is requested to interview subject

An accordance with existins instructions relating ta laterve

views of security subjects. If this subject is co-operative,

no affirmative steps will be taken during the initial inter-

view to direct her activities and complete background

investigation required by Section 107C of the Manual of

Instructions is being conducted and Bureau will be requested

to authorize recontact with subject as a PSI.

A.

Subject resides at Box 208, Route 36, Union

Beach, New Jersey (mailing address is Keyport, N. J.); she

is employed as a cashier at Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, N. J.

She was born 5/19/61, Newark, N. J., and is a u. s. citizen.

Her health appears to

be satistactory.

B. She was formerly married to WALTER/KORABIAK.

Her

probation record notes she is divorced from him and that he

resides in California.

C. Subject was convicted in 1958 for conspiracy

and unlawful possession of firearms. Investigation reflects

close association with MANUEL ARQUES and was assisting in

plan to return CARLOS PRIO to power in Cuba.,

She has

t,S,4

100

continued association with arques since her conviction.

D. No intormation avallable?,

ВІТАЯ

E. No information available.

MAILED 271

MAY 1 5 1961

F •

A news interview of subject contained in

• local newspaper on 3/26/61 reflects a purported change

COMM-FBI

in her attitude against CASTRO,

whereas at one time she had

favored what CASTRO stood forpage

negle Rtd33805-9550775

HLE: mad

Newark APPROVED 5/15 6L

7 MAY 1 31961

Submit results in dermiREPoRT

MAY 8

19615

vitable for disseminatio

Bufiles contain n

additional

pertinent information

MAIL ROOM

F"entifable with subject.

ADVISES

SLIP

DAWNS

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 105-9440

CONEIDNITIAL

sained, it is belleved that she could furnish valuable

If co-operative and 11 her confidence can be

information concerning current Cuban matters based on her

association with persons who have been so involved. & (4)

Bureau note:

Current inquiries of subject are based on report that subject

was prasing Castro

in her conversations.

since she has

apparently changed her attitude towards

Castro,

an interview

of her would be logical method to determine if she possesses

any information of value regarding the cuban situation

appratse. her informant potential. d/us

CONTISENTAL

2

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 3

---

## Page 4

4-22 (Rev.

1-22-60)

• - те

"Federal Bureau of Inve-tigation

Records Brar

=11

_, 196

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to tile Review

Attention

raves

Return to

1537

414

Supervisor

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_Variations

Subject

Evetun

Eleanare Ürcher

Birthdate & Place -

5-19-2/

N.J.

Address -

1itd 2-8-61

Localities.

R#.

Prod.

_ Date -

5-11

sorter f

Initials

SERIAL

FILE NUMBER

15105-45507

AUL INFORMATION CONFAINED

MERELL IS UNCLASSILE!

DATE 5:3.94 Bx 5PQMAC /EN

JFR

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-263 (Mer. 5=1-59)

FEDERA

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OCHANGED

aka.

Walter

Korabiaks,

rusy archer, Regmu

Archer, Ruby Korbin

Lep.

DATE

4/25/61

REPORT MADE BY

HERBERT L. BLOM

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/24/61 - 4/20/61

IS - CUBA

TYPED BY

vwb

The title is marked "Changed" to show subject's full

as EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER and to make addition of the

following names: REGMU ARCHER, RUBY KORBIN.

Title was previously

16

EVELYN ARCHER, aka. Mrs. Walter Korablak, Ruby Archer:

REFERENCES

CC TO:..

.Cra

Newark letter to Bureau,

1/31/61.

REQ. REC'D.

10-2.6..6x

Miami airtel to Bureau,

2/6/61.

Bureau letter to Newark,

OCT 2 8 1964

2/16/61.

Houston letter to Bureau, 3/7/61.

ANS.

BY:.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Jepal.

cerning MANUEL ARTAS, MANDEL ARQUES OX MANUEL ARQUES. U

Miami indices contain no references to HYMAN GOTTSMAN.

Bureau files contain no additional pertinent information

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

PECIAL AGEN

N CHARGE

WIN

Bureau (105-95507) (RM)

1 - Miami (105-3507) (Info.) (RM)

3 - Newark (105-9440)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

108+95507=4

-*574

- 17 APR 26 1961

MCT • 20

REG 71

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Copy tO

- CA/State/RAB

YOSI/G2

Date Fwd.

How Ew

By

routing sip

Date B5

62 MAY 1 0 1967.

Notations

if-29-9

INT. SEC

SPAMAC/EN (JAK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRED &24, 326

DATE 12/3/84

-_BY SP6BJA/GCL

3/5/85 SP6 BJA/GCL # 211, 326

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NK 105-9440

concerninget to ubject, dAd 2 AROUS than made available in

BERNARD HOLMES BRENNAN, mentioned in instant report,

is Former MM 715-s who, during 10/60; publicly disclosed his

former association as a Bureau informant.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK T-1

File Number Where Located

105-9440-2

JOSEPH QUAIL

Health Inspector

Middletown Township, N.J.

(By Request)

NK T-2

105-9440-2

ALICE DONNELLY

New Jersey Bell Telephone Company

English Plaza

Red Bank, N.J.

(By Request)

NK T-3

105-9440-3

MIS. PEG MUNDEN

Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Company

Miami Beach, Florida

(By Request)

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and T-symbols were utilized only in those instances

where the identities of the sources must be concealed.

LEADS

NEWARK DIVISION

AT NEWARK, N.J.

Will request Bureau authority to interview subject.

MIAMI (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnished Miami for

their information in view of their interest in MANUEL ARQUES and

inasmuch as subject periodically visits Miami.

• B*.

'OVER PAGI

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 6

---

## Page 7

a FD 20Ä (Rev. 31-3-59).

UN, /ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF .,STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Title:

HERBERT. 4°

BLOM

April 25,

1961

Field Office File #:105-9440

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

chasterty.

Office: NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

Bureau File #: 105-95507

ALL INFORMATION CONTAININ

FREIN IS UNCLASSINIE

1259

41. 4-29-40 5880/5

PT AGENIC

E'S

Character:

IS - CUBA

Synopsis:

1*.

TING

ADVISED BY RO

SLIP

DATE

In 1/61, subject was praising CASTRO and in conversa-

tion with NK T-l, asked if he was interested in making

money and if so,

she would have him meet a friend from

either Cuba or Miami.

NK T-1, in 4/61, advised subject

has made no further mention concerning

this matter.

Previous investigation shows subject has been associated

with Cubans involved in Cuban affairs.

Probation

records show subject and others were arrested during

2/58, in Texas, charged with conspiracy and unlawful

possession of firearms. On 7/11/58, subject was

sentenced in U.S.D.C., Houston, Texas, two years and

fined $500.00,

but was placed on 22 months probation.

Background information and association with MANUEL

ARQUES set forth.

3/26/61 issue of "Asbury Park Sunday

press" contains interview by reporter showing subject's

resent attitude concerning Cuba

506 BIn/GeL

DETAILS:

ON

SP6B54/645 211,326

On January 24, 1961, NK T-l advised

that several

months

previously, while talking to the subject at a bar, she was praising

FIDEL CASTRO and what he was doing for Cuba.

Later in the con-

versation, she asked the informant how he felt about making a

"buck" or if he cared how he made it.

NK T-1, in going along with

the conversation, stated to her that he was interested in making

money,..to which she replied that she was expecting a friend fron

either Cuba or Miami (not recalled by NK T-I) and that when. he:

arrived she would have them get together.

DONE

NTIAN

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 7

---

## Page 8

10

NK 105-9440

Since that time, according to NK T-1, subject has made

no further mention of this matter, although he

has seen her on

several occasions.

NK T-l said he had heard it rumored that

the subject has been

involved in the sale of guns to Cuba in the

past, as well as having visited Cuba since CASTRO took power, but

did not know this of his own knowledge. U

REFULA

NK I-I said that ARCHER is divorced from her husband,

has two children and resides with her mother, ANA ARCHER, On

employed

as a cashier at le Cottage Inn, Keyport, New Jersey.U

A APPROX 1902:

It is to be noted that during the ourse de anothes Ine

vestigation the subject's mother, ANNA ARCHER, was interviewed at

her home by SA VICTOR J. CAMPI, on July 6, 1960, concerning an

abandoned car found near her home.

which she said she had written the license number of the abandoned

car, Mrs. ARCHER started

woman's voice,

in a lour-to enter the next room, at which time a

tone, objected to an effort to open the

door.

Nrs. ARCHER said her daughter was making a phone call and

that when the call was completed she would obtain the requested

item.

Shortly thereafter,

the subject emerged from the next room

stating she had been interrupted making a very important telephone

call - a call to Cuba.

She did not identify the individual to

whom she was talking nor did she furnish any information con-

cerning this telephone conversation. t

On October 6, 1960, Captain WALTER HUTTON, Union Beach,

New Jersey, Police Department, advised SA CAMPI that the subject

had two brothers, noting that one brother,

FREDDIE, ARCHER, was

a well-known boxer

He noted that the subject had been married

to a local man but had stopped living together in the late 1940s

and since that time her mother, ANNA ARCHER, has been helping to

rear the two children from that marriage. Captain HUTTON did not.

know how the subject made her living, but it was his opinion she

probably had boyfriends who kept her, that she did a bit of

traveling with her boyfriends but always returned to visit her

children.

He said the subject was also known under the name

RUBY KORBIN.

In the course of another

investigation, Alcohol and

Tobacco Tax Division (ATTD) Agent JOHN C. MULLIN, on January 18,

1960, advised SA WINCOLNJ. STOKES that the last girlfriend of

CHARLIE "THE BLADEN KOURINE was a girl named EVELYN ARCHER

(phonetic) of Houston, Texas.

He said this girl was married and

may be involved in gun purchasing and selling.

•2 -

CO

ITAL

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NK 105-9440

On January 24, 1961, NK T-2 advised that ANNA ARCHER,

Route 36, Union Beach,

New Jersey, is the subscriber to

COlfax 4-2033 and that

the following toll calls had been made

from this number:U

October 21, 1960

November 18, 1960

November 24, 1960

December 3, 1960

Call from Mrs. FNU ARCHER to

MANDEL ARQVES

at Havana 77241

Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

from Miami (JE 1-7630)

CO 4-2033

The above information cannot be made public except in

the usual proceeding following the issuance of a subpoena duces

tecum.

On January 25, 1961, Mr. EMERSON ISCHUPP, Deputy

Director, Enforcement Division, New Jersey State Alcohol Beverage

Control, 1100 Raymond Boulevard, Newark, New Jersey, advised SA

JACK W. SUNDERLAND that as of October 21, 1959, the

subject was

listed

as an employee at Ye Cottage Inn, 149 West Front street,

Keyport, New Jersey, as a cashier.

On January 26, 1961, Birth Records were made available

to SA SUNDERLAND at the Bureau of Vital Statistics, City Hall,

Newark, New Jersey, wherein it was noted that one REGMU (not

completely legible) ARCHER was born May 19, 1921, at Newark, New

Jersey.

This record noted a name change to EVELYN ARCHER On

June 8, 1936.

The address where the birth occurred was 326 - 18th

subject,

results:

age 19, born in Newark, New Jersey.

In an effort to check divorce records concerning the

the following departments were contacted with negative

January 30, 1961

MrS. ELSIE WALZER, DOCKEt CLerK,

Monmouth County Clerk's Office,

Freehold, New Jersey.

- 3 -

CONSIDENTIAD

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NK 105-9440

February 7, 1961

Records of New Jersey Superior

Court, West State Street, Trenton,

New Jersey; checked by SA NORMAN

A. HENDRICKS.

January 26, 1961

MISS FRANCES BEAM,

Essex County

Clerk's Office, Hall of Records,

Newark, New Jersey, contacted by

SA JACK W. SUNDERLAND.

on January 20, 1961, JOHN MILES, Monmouth County Identi-

fication Bureau,

Freehold, New Jersey, advised the files of his

office contained no record concerning the subject. u

SELMA JENNINGS, Credit Bureau of Central New Jersey,

103 East Front Street, Red Bank, New Jersey, advised on January

UnIon Beach, New Jersey,

was listed as a widow and that as of April 12, 1949, there

Her credit record

was listed as a troublesome account and showed previous employ-

ments at The Magnolia Inn, Matawan, New Jersey, on March 19, 1957,

and at le cottage ind, keyport, New Jersey, on June 2, 1555.

5

On February 18, 1958, upon the basis of information

furnished by the san Antonio Office concerning the purchase of a

EXAS boat by ROBERT MC-KEOWN, determined to be the BUDDY DEE, United

States Customs took possession of this vessel which had departed

from Patterson, Louisiana, for Houston, Texas, with MANUEL/ARQUES,

RUBY ARCHER,

also known as EVELYN ArchEr, of keyport, New Jersey;

and ABELARDO RENE PUJOL Y BARRERA on board.

The February 26, 1958, issue of the "Miami Herald» CHBA

carried an article entitled, "Arms Plot Suspect Surrenders,"

bearing a Houston, Texas, dateline.

This article revealed that

ROBERT MC KEOWN had surrendered Tuesday and was charged immedi-

ately with two counts of violating the National Firearms Act.

This article disclosed that MC KEOWN was described by Federal

authorities as the "mystery man" in the Houston phase of an

alleged plot to supply Cuban nationals with firearms.\

On April 4, 1961, the subject's file was made available

to SA DANIEL E. BRANDT by BRAYTON CRIST, United States Probation

officer, Trenton, New Jersey.

- 4-

TAU

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 10

---

## Page 11

NK 105-9440

Seabrook, Texas, and charged with conspiracy and unlawful pos-

session of firearms. The co-defendants in the case were kisted

aS MANUEL ARQUES,

MARTONSILVERIO VILLAMINA, FRANCISCO, GONZALES

ORREGON and ABELARDO PUJOS, BARRERA..

on july Il, 1958, the subject was sentenced in United

States District Court, Southern District of Texas, Houston, Texas,

to two years and a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).

August 12, 1958,

the sentence was reduced to 18 months - suspended,

22 months probation and a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine. The

fine was paid by the subject on July 17, 1958.V1

A letter dated June 23, 1958, from the United States

probation Office, Houston, Texas,

to the Probation Office, Trenton,

New Jersey, indicated the

subject had been involved in a conspiracy

to take part in a military expedition and enterprise to be carried

on from within the United States against Cuba.

The letter con-

tinued that the subject, who had represented herself as Mrs.

MANUEL ARQUES but who was not married to ARQUES, had met ARQUES

on the Miami POlice Department, was known to CARLOS, PRIO. former

Florida, while met, vas known

ArQUEs' father, who was

President of Cuba.

The subject was assisting ARQUES in a

have PRIO returned to control in Cuba in place of BATISTE, for

which ARQUES would be given a high government position.

The fire-

arms which were in the possession of the subject were to be sent

to CASTRO by boat.

The subject's parole supervision was transferred to

Trenton, New Jersey, on September 22, 1958. L

On October 13, 1958, the subject testified in United

States District Court, Houston, Texas,

against ROBERT R. MC KEOWN;

and en route to Texas she visited Miami, Florida, and

on returning

to New Jersey Visited Key West, Florida,

During January, 1959, the subject went to Miami, Florida,

without obtaining permission,

and on January 23, 1959, she and

ARQUES appeared at the United States Probation Office, Miami, and

asked for permission to return to Cuba.

Her address at that time

was 2350 S. W. 13th Street, Miami, Florida.

Permission for her to

go to Cuba was denied by the Judge at United States District Court,

Houston, Texas.

The supervision of the subject's parole was transferred

to Miami, Florida, on February 12, 1959, and she returned to her

New Jersey, address on July 10, 1959. She visited ARQUES

aNd Me germa, 1959, residing care of Mes. P.MOODMAN

ADDRESS: 342 WE- 35*81

NTAgS -

MIAME, FLORIDA

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 11

---

## Page 12

REVIEWED

BY

LESSER

TASK FORCE

ON

7.23.90 dad

NK 105-9440

342 N. Es 35th Street, Miami, Florida, and returned to New Jersey

on November 18, 1959.

She went to Miami on March 25, 1960, where

she lived at the Hotel

America until she returned to New Jersey

on April 11, 1960.

The files show the subject's probation expired on June

12, 1960,

and that during June, 1960, she was going to accompany

ner boyiriend, MANUEL ARQUES, to Canada, where he was going to

promote

tourist trade to Cuba. After her trip to Canada, she and

ARQUES were going to marry and return to Cuba. U

The file contained the following background information: U

Name

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

Date of Birth

May 19, 1921, Newark, New Jersey

Race

White

Sex

Female

Address

RD 1, Box 208, Keyport, New

Jersey

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

Occupation

Cashier and waitress

Employer

TOTAL DENIAL

Cottage Inn, Keyport, New

Jersey

Father

FRIED ARCHER, 34 Cale Crespis,

Santa Barbara, California

Mother

ANNA ARCHER, Keyport, New

Jersey

Son

JEFFERY

Daughter

VALERIE

EX-Husband

WALTER/ KORBIAC, California

On August 5, 1960, MICHAEL A, ROMANO,

Customs, Miami, Florida, advised SA WILLIAM P. KELLY the name

names and addresses in the possession of MANUEL ARQUES On JULY

Maam, 3ox 208,

, United states

keyport, N.J." was found among other

22, 1960, on which date ROMANO searched the baggage and person

ARQUES at Miami International Airport, following ARQUES' re-

turn from Havana on that date.

On March 25, 1960, BERNARD HOLMES BRENNAN, Moodus,

Connecticut, advised SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN, at Miami, that as of

March 25, 1960, MANUEL ARQUES waS

dating a girl named

EVELYN

ARCHER,

who then lived at the American Hotel, 273 N.E. Second

Street, Miami.\

On October 26, 1960, BRENNAN advised he went to Havana

to meet ARQUES during September, 1960.

He stated that while at

Havana, "RUBY," not further identified, was there with ARQUES.

- 6 -

NIAL

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 12

---

## Page 13

NK 105-9440 .

BRENNAN stated "RUBY" was worried about her parents knowing she

was in Cuba, and she expressed concern about the large number of

Chinese men at the Commodore Hotel, Havana, whom she saw eating

on one occasion, and stated she did not like it at all. U

MANUEL, ARQUES, a self-admitted supporter of CARLOS PRIO,

exiled former President of Cuba, and naturalized United States

citizen of Cuban birth, formerly was Publicity Director of the

Cuban Tourist Commission at Miami until he resigned during Novem-

ber, 1960. ARQUES has been identified by several sources as having

been an intelligence agent in the United States for JUAN

until recently,

was the secretary for FIDEL CASTRO.

-ORTA, Who,

Upon interview by Bureau Agents on December 1, 1960,

ARQUES denied ever having been a Cuban intelligence agent.

ever, he admitted sending written and verbal messages to ORTA

during 1959 concerning activities in the United states of

"Batistianos." ARQUES stated he was not in accord with policies

of the Castro Government and considered communism to be dominant

In the castro regipe KAi MANDEeRKES

BoB.

on January 20/1961 BARQUES advised SA WILLYAM P. KELLY

CUBA

that his residence then was 1050 N. W. Seventh Street, Miami,

Florida.

On

February 3, 1961, NK T-8

advised that telephone

number JE 1 - 7635 was listed

to HIMAN

GOTTSMAN, 1225 - 11th.

Street, Apartment 2, Miami Beach, Florida

The above records are confidential and can only be ob-

tained through issuance of a subpoena duces tecum.

The March 26, 1961, issue of "The Asbury Park Sunday

Press" carried the following article concerning the subject

TolLowing an Interview by ChARLES BROwER, press Staff Writer:

"SHORE WOMAN WHO AIDED CASTRO

SORRY, SAYS CUBANS LIKE US

" By CHARLES BROWER

Press Staff Writer

" UNION BEACH -- Despite FIDEL CASTRO's hate America cam-

paign, the average Cuban holds no dislike for Americans.

" This is the observation of a local woman who aided, in

what she terms a minor way, the young Cuban dictator's

rise to power over three years ago.

-7-

N126

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 13

---

## Page 14

NK 105-9440

" Miss EVELYN ARCIER, Rte. 36, who helped supply arms

to Cuban rebels prior to CASTRO's victory over former

Cuban strongman FULGENCIO BATISTA, said she is 'sad and

unnappy? at the results of the Cuban revolution.

" "The Cuban people do not hate Americans.'

" Many Ask About Americans

" In fact, sne said, many Cubans ask if the Americans

really hate them.

" Miss ARCHER said she was received warmly by Cubans

both in Havana and in the interior during a visit to

the island last fall. 'They treated me wonderfully,'

she said.

• 'CASTRO has betrayed the people who put him in power.

He has not kept the many promises he made after his

victory early in 1959.'

" Among the unkept promises made by the bearded dicta-

tor were free elections throughout Cuba within a year.

Arrested in Texas

" 'The Cuban people want to live under a democracy; they

do not want communism, ' she asserted. 'CASTRO, ' she

said, 'certainly leans toward communism.'

" Miss ARCHER and five other Cuban rebel sympathizers

were arrested three years ago in Texas as they attempted

to ship arms to rebels in Cuba.

She was fined and given

an 18-month suspended jail sentence after pleading no

defense to charges of conspiracy to overthrow the Cuban

government headed by BATISTA.

" The attractive brunette was also placed on probation

for 22 months and barred from traveling to Cuba during

the probation period.

"'I'm not ashamed of what I did. I'm only sorry it has

turned out the way it has,' she said.

" Asked if she would do it all over again she declared

she would but 'not exactly in the same way.'

- 8 -

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 14

---

## Page 15

NK 105-9440

Minor Role

" Miss ARCHER became involved in the Cuban revolution

through Cuban friends she had met during visits to

Cuba and Miami. Her part was only a minor one, she

says.

" She is reluctant to publicly bring up her past asso-

lations with the Cuban revolution, but agreed onl

o convey to Americans the message that the Cubai

people simply have nothing against Americans.

" "More and more people are breaking away from the

CASTRO regime each day.

They are escaping into the

hills and out of the country by any means possible.

Thousands have been granted political asylum in this

country.'

" Miss ARCHER said she holds high hopes for the future

liberation of the Cuban people. Although she said

she is not associated now with revolutionary movements

and knows of no specific plans to overthrow CASTRO she

added it is readily known that such movements are

active.

" 'Many of the groups have been organizing in Miami,'

she said.

" Friends she had been associated with in aiding the

revolution have all defected from Cuba since her visit

last fall. It is for this reason, she said, she would

not dare return to Cuba as

long as CASTRO is in power.

'Crazy With Power'

" When asked why CASTRO has failed to keep his promises

and to bring freedom to Cuba, Miss ARCHER replied that

'he has perhaps gone crazy with power.'

" She added that his luster as a hero is wearing off.

" Miss ARCHER is employed as a hostess in a Shore restau-

rant. She was born in Newark and moved here about 14

years ago. She lives with her mother, Mrs. ANNA ARCHER."

- 9 -

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 15

--

---

## Page 16

NK 105-9440

On April 18, 1961, NK T-l advised that the subject

was still working at the Ye

Cottage Inn, Keyport; New Jersey,

and in recent conversation with her, she has made no further

mention concerning their conversation in January, 1961, whereby

she had stated she would introduce him to a friend of hers from

Cuba or Miami.

Upon Viewing photographs of MANUEL ARQUES,

said this person was unknown to him.

The following physical description of the subject was

obtained from the New Jersey Department of Motor Vehicles,

Trenton,

New Jersey, on February 7, 1961, by SA NORMAN A. HENDRICKS and

from personal observation:

Name

Residence

Race

Sex

Hair

Eyes

Complexion

Height

Weight

EVELYN ARCHER

Box 208, Route 36, Keyport,

New Jersey

White

Female

Brown

Brown

Dark

Five feet, three inches

Approximately 135 pounds

- 10% -

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 16

---

## Page 17

FD- 223

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. NK 105-9440

U SITED STATES DEPARTMENT ON JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newarks, New Jersey

April 25, 1961

Title

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

Character

Reference

IS - CUBA

Report of SA HERBERT L. BLOM

dated

April 25, 1961,

at Newark.

All sources (except any listed below) used in referenced

communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

SOR-10HDZ

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 17

---

## Page 18

FD-2/3 PRev. 5-1-391

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OCHANGED

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER,

aka.

Evelyn Archer, Mrs. Walter

Korablak, Ruby Archer, Regmu

Archer, Ruby Korbin

DATE

4/25/61

REPORT MADE BY

HERBERT L. BLOM

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/29/61 - 4/20/61

IS - CUBA

TYPED BY

vwb

The title is marked "Changed" to show subject's full

name as EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER and to make addition of the

20110 An a CHE ROE, Ruby Are was preylously

REFERENCES

Newark letter to Bureau, 1/31/61.

Miami airtel to Bureau,

2/6/61.

Bureau letter to Newark, 2/16/61.

Houston letter to Bureau, 3/7/61.

!

ADMINISTRATIVE

Newark indices contain no identifiable references con-

Cerning MANUEL ARTAS, MANDEL ARQUES OF MANUEL ARQUES.

Miami indices contain no references to HYMAN GOTTSMAN.

Bureau files contain no additional pertinent information

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau (105-95507) (RM)

1 - Miami (105-3507) (Info.) (RM)

3 - Newark (105-9440)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Notations

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED* 21/326

DATE 12/3/84

SPBOSA GCL 5211,376

UPSMACEN JFK

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 18

---

## Page 19

NK 105-9440

concerning the subject or MANUEL ARQUES than made available in

Miami airtel to Bureau, dated 2/6/61. \

BERNARD HOLMES BRENNAN, mentioned in instant report,

is Former MM 715-S who, during 10/60, publicly disclosed his

former association as a Bureau informant.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK T-1

JOSEPH QUAIL

Health Inspector

Middletown Township, N.J.

By Request)

NK T-2

ALICE DONNELLY

New Jersey Bell Telephone Company

English Plaza

Red Bank, N.J.

(By Request)

NK T-3

MrS. PEG MUNDEN

Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Company

Miami Beach, Florida

(By Request)

File Number Where Located

105-9440-2

105-9440-2

105-9440-3

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I-symbols were utilized only in those instances

where the identities of the sources must be concealed. U

LEADS

NEWARK DIVISION

AT NEWARK, N.J.

Will request Bureau authority to interview subject. U

MIAMI (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnished Miami for

their information in view of their interest in MANUEL ARQUES and

inasmuch as subject periodically vIsits Miami l

COVER PAGE

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 19

---

## Page 20

FD-204 (Rey. 3-3-59) /

UM. TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Title:

HERBERT L.

BLOM

April 25,

1961

Field Office File #105-9440

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIE

011% 1: 29-9434 SPBMAC/EN

Oice: NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

Bureau File #:105-95507

state

Character:

IS - CUBA

Examp: liam CDS.

T511

Synopsis:

In 1/61, subject was praising CASTRO and in conversa-

tion with NK I-l, asked if he was interested in making

money and if so, she would have him meet a friend from

either Cuba or Miami. NK T-1, in 4/61, advised subject

has made no further mention concerning

this matter.

Previous investigation shows subject has been associated

SIFIE

KAS.

SHOWN

ERE

Probation

records show

subject and others were arrested during

2/58, in Texas,

charged with conspiracy and unlawful

possession of firearms.

On 7/11/58, subject was

sentenced in U.S.D.C., Houston, Texas, two years and

12.2

HEREIN

EXCEP

OTHE

fined $500.00, but was placed on 22 months probation.

Background

• information and association with MANUEL

ARQUES set forth.

3/26/61 issue of "Asbury Park Sunday

press" contains interview by reporter showing subject's

present attitude concerning Cuba.

- P-DECLASSE

08x 506 BEA/GeL

ON

DETAILS:

211,326

3)1,85

SДЬВПА"/GCL $211,326

On January 24, 1961, NK T-I advised that several months

previously, while talking to the subject at a bar, she was praising

FIDEL CASTRO and what he was doing for Cuba.

Later in the con-

versation, she asked the informant how he felt about making a

"buck" or if he cared how he made it.

the conversation, stated to her that he was interested in making

ta thạt he vat"

NK T-I, in going along with

money, to which she replied that she was expecting a friend from

either Cuba: or Miami (not recalled by NK T-l) and that when he

arrived she would have them get together.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI änd is loaned. to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 20

---

## Page 21

NK 105-9440

Since that time, according to NK T-l, subject has made

no further mention of this matter, although he

has seen her on

several occasions.

NK T-I said he had heard it rumored that

the subject has been involved in the sale of guns to Cuba in the

past, as well as having visited Cuba since CASTRO took power, but

did not know this of his own knowledge.

NK T-1 said that ARCHER is divorced from her husband,

has two children and resides with her mother, ANNA ARCHER, OD

Route 36, Union Beach, New Jersey.

He added

cashier at Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, New Jersey.

that she is employed

It is to be noted that during the course of another in-

vestigation the subject's mother, ANNA ARCHER, was interviewed at

her home by SA VICTOR J. CAMPI,

on July 6, 1960, concerning an

abandoned car found near her home. Upon requesting a paper upon

which she said she had written the license number of the abandoned

car, Mrs. ARCHER started to enter the next room, at which time a

woman's voice, in a loud tone, objected to an effort to open the

door. Mrs. ARCHER said her daughter was making a phone call and

that when the call was completed she would obtain the requested

item. Shortly thereafter, the subject emerged from the next room

stating she had been interrupted making a very important telephone

call - a call to Cuba.

She did not identify the individual to

whom she was

talking nor did she furnish any information con-

cerning this telephone conversation.

on October 6, 1960, Captain WALTER HUTTON, UniOn Beach,

New versey, Police Department, advised SA CANPI that the subject

nad two brothers, noting that one brother, FREDDIE ARCHER, WaS

a well-known boxer.

ne noted that the subject had been marriec

to a local man but had

stopped living together in the late 1940s

Captain HUTTON did not

know how the subject made her living, but it was his opinion she

probably had boyfriends who kept her, that she did a bit of

traveling with her boyfriends but always returned to visit her

children.

He said the subject was also known under the name

RUBY KORBIN.

In the course of another investigation, Alcohol and

Tobacco Tax Division (ATTD) Agent JOHN C. MULLIN, on January 18,

1960, advised SA LINCOLN J. STOKES that the last girlfriend of

CHARLIE "THE BLADE" TOURINE was a girl named EVELYN ARCHER

(phonetic) of Houston, Texas.

He said this girl was married and

may be involved in gun purchasing and selling.

- 2 =

IAL

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 21

---

## Page 22

NK: 105-9440

On January 24, 1961, NK I-2 advised that ANNA ARCHER,

Route 36, Union Beach,

from this number:

October 21, 1960

November 18, 1960

November 24, 1960

December 3, 1960

Call from Mrs. FNU ARCHER to

MANDEL ARQYES at Havana 77241

Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

Collect call to MANUEL ARTAS

from Miami (JE 1-7635) to

CO 4-2033

The above information cannot be made public except in

the usual proceeding following the issuance of a subpoena duces

tecum.

On January 25, 1961, Mr. EMERSON TSCHUPP, Deputy

DIrECtOr, EntOrCemEnt DIViSIOn, NeW Jersey State Alcohol Beverage

control, 1100 Raymond Boulevard, Newark, New Jersey, advised SA

JACK W. SUNDERLAND that as of October 21, 1959, the subject was

listed

as an employee at Ye Cottage Inn,.

149 West Front Street,

Keyport, New Jersey, as a cashier.

On January 26, 1961, Birth Records were made available

to SA SUNDERLAND at the

Newark, New

versey, wherein It was noted that one REGuu (not

completely legible) ARCHER was born May 19, 1921, at Newark, New

Jersey.

This record noted a name change to EVELYN ARCHER on

June 8, 1936.

The address where the birth occurred was 326 - 18th

Avenue, Newark, New Jersey. Her parents were listed as FREDERICK

ARCHER, age 21, a toolmaker, born in Newark, New Jersey, and ANNA

FIOLA, age 19, born in Newark, New Jersey.

In an effort to check divorce records concerning the

rusult: the following departments weze contacted with negative

January 30, 1961

NI'S. ELSIE WALZER, DOCKEt CLerk,

Monmouth County Clerk's Office,

Freehold, New Jersey.

- 3-

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 22

---

## Page 23

NK 105-9440

February 7, 1961

Records of New Jersey Superior

Court, West State Street, Trenton,

New Jersey, checked by SA NORMAN

A. HENDRICKS.

January 26, 1961

Miss

FRANCES BEAM, Essex County

Clerk's Office, Hall of Records,

Newark, New Jersey, contacted by

SA JACK W. SUNDERLAND.

On January 25, 1961, JOHN MILES, Monmouth County Identi-

Ilcation Bureau, Freehold, New Jersey, advised the files of his

office contained no record concerning

the subject.

SELMA JENNINGS, Credit Bureau of Central New Jersey,

103 East Front Street, Red Bank, New Jersey, advised on January

20, 1y01, that according to her

records EVELYN ARCHER, Box 408,

Union Beach, New Jersey,

(Keyport, New Jersey, mailing address)

was listed as a widow and that as

of April 12, 1949, there was an

account listed to her under the name of EVELYN and WALTER

KORABIAK, RD 1, Box 408, Keyport, New Jersey.

Her credit record

was listed as a troublesome account and showed previous employ-

ments at The Magnolia Inn, Matawan, New Jersey, on March 19, 1957,

and at Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, New Jersey, on

June 2, 1953.

On February 18, 1958, upon the basis of information

furnished by the San Antonio Office concerning the purchase of a

boat by ROBERT MC KEOWN, determined to be the BUDDY DEE; United

States Customs took possession of this vessel which had departed

Irom Patterson, Louisiana, Ior Houston, Texas, with MANUEL ARQUES,

RUBY ARCHER, also known as EVELYN ARCHER, of Keyport, New Jersey,

and ABELARDO RENE PUJOL Y BARRERA On board.

The February 26, 1958, issue of the "Miami Herald"

carried an article entitled, "Arms Plot Suspect Surrenders,"

bearing a Houston, Texas, dateline.

This article revealed

that

ROBERT MC KEOWN had surrendered Tuesday and was charged immedi-

ately with two counts of violating the National Firearms Act.

This article disclosed that MC KEOWN was described by Federal

authorities as the "mystery man" in the Houston phase of an

alleged plot to supply Cuban nationals with firearms.

On April 4, 1961, the subject's file was made available

to SA DANIEL E. BRANDT by BRAYTON CRIST, United States Probation

Officer, Trenton, New Jersey.

The file shows EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER, RD

Box 208,

Keyport, New Jersey, was arrested during February, 1958, at

- 4-

2113

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 23

---

## Page 24

NK 105-9440

Seabrook, Texas, and charged with conspiracy and unlawful pos-

session of firearms.

The co-defendants in the case were listed

aS MANUEL ARQUES, MARIO SILVERIO VILLAMINA, FRANCISCO GONZALES

OBREGON and ABELARDO PUJOL BARRERA.

stato posite out so here buse at to tenco

on July Il, 1958, the subject was sentenced in United

On

August 12, 1958, the sentence was reduced to 18 months - suspended,

22 months

probation and a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine.

The

fine was paid by the subject on July 17, 1958.

A letter dated June 23, 1958, from the United States

probation Office, Houston, Texas,

to the Probation Office, Trenton,

New versey, indicated the subject had been involved in a conspiracy

to take part in a military expedition and enterprise to be carried

on from within the United States against Cuba.

The letter con-

tinued that the subject, who had represented herself as Mrs.

MANUEL ARQUES but who was not married to ARQUES, had met ARQUES

in Miami, Florida, while on vacation. ARQUES'

father, who was

on the Miami Police Department,

was known to CARLOS PRIO, former

President of Cuba.

The subject was assisting ARQUES in a plan to

have PRIO returned to control in Cuba in place of BATISTethe fire-

which ARQUES would be given a high government position.

arms which were in the possession of the subject were to be sent

to CASTRO by boat.

The subject's parole supervision was transferred to

Trenton, New Jersey, on September 22, 1958.

On october 13, 1958, the subject testified in United

States District Court, Houston, Texas,

against ROBERT R. MC KEOWN,

and en route to Texas she visited Miami, Florida, and on returning

to New Jersey visited Key West, Florida,

During January, 1959, the subject went to Miami, Florida,

without obtaining permission, and on January 23, 1959, she and

ARQUES appeared at the United States Probation Office,

Miami, and

asked for permission to return to Cuba.

Her address at that

was 2350 S. W. 13th Street, Miami, Florida.

Permission for her to

go to Cuba was denied by the Judge at United States District Court,

Houston, Texas.

The supervision of the

subject's parole was transferred

to Miami, Florida, on February 12, 1959, and she returned to her

New Jersey, address

on July 10, 1959.

at litami on November 4, 1959, residing care of Mrs. R. GOODNAN,

She visited ARQUES

- 5-

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 24

---

## Page 25

NK 105-9440

USeS

REVIEWED BY FET/UFK TASK FORCE

342 N. E. 35th Street, Miami, Florida, and returned to New Jersey

on November 18, 1959.

She went to Miami on March 25, 1960, where

she lived at the Hotel America until she returned to New Jersey

on April 11, 1960.

The files show the subject's probation expired on June

12, 1960, and that during June, 1960, she was going to accompany

her boyfriend, MANUEL ARQUES, to Canada, where he was going to

promote tourist trade to Cuba.

After her trip to Canada, she and

ARQUES were going to marry and return to Cuba.

The file contained the following background information;

1253

Name

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

Date of Birth

May 19, 1921, Newark, New Jersey

Race

White

Sex

Female

Address

RD 1, Box 208, Keyport, New

223.97 dol

Jersey

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

Occupation

DENIAL

Employer

Father

TOTAL

Mother

Cashier and waitress

Cottage Inn, Keyport, New

Jersey

FRED ARCHER, 34 Cale Crespis,

Santa Barbara, California

ANNA ARCHER, Keyport, New

Jersey

ON

Son

Daughter

Ex-Husband

JEFFERY

VALERIE

WALTER KORBIAC, California

On August 5, 1960, MICHAEL A. ROMANO, United States

Customs, Miami, Florida, advised SA WILLIAM P.

KELLY the name

Box 208, Keyport, N.J." was found among other

names and addresses in the possession of MANUEL ARQUES On JulY

22, 1960, on which date ROMANO searched the baggage and person

ARQUES at Miami International Airport, following ARQUES' re-

turn from Havana on that date.

On March 25, 1960, BERNARD HOLMES BRENNAN, MOOduS,

Connecticut, advised SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN, at Miami, that

as of

March 25, 1960, MANUEL ARQUES was dating a girl named

EVELYN

ARCHER,

who then lived at the American Hotel, 273 N.E. Second

Street, Miami.

On October 26, 1960, BRENNAN advised he went to Havana

tO mEet ARQUES during September, 1960.

He stated that while at

havana, "RUBY," not further identified, was there with ARQUES.

- 6 -

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 25

---

## Page 26

NK 105-9440

BRENNAN stated "RUBY" was worried about her parents knowing she

was in Cuba, and she expressed concern about the large number of

Chinese men

at the Commodore Hotel, Havana, whom she saw eating

on one occasion, and stated she did not like it at all.

MANUEL ARQUES, a self-admitted supporter of CARLOS PRIO,

exiled former President

of Cuba, and naturalized United States

citizen of Cuban birth, formerly was Publicity Director of the

Cuban Tourist Commission at Miami until he resigned during Novem-

ber, 1960.

ARQUES has been identified by several sources as having

been an intelligence agent in the United States for JUAN ORTA, who,

until recently, was the secretary for FIDEL CASTRO. LU)

Upon interview by Bureau Agents on December 1, 1960,

ARQUES denied ever having been a Cuban intelligence agent.

HOW-

ever, he admitted sending written and verbal messages to ORTA

"Batistianos." ARQUES stated he was not in accord with policies

of the Castro Government and considered communism to be dominant

in the Castro regime.

(u)

On January 20, 1961, ARQUES advised SA WILLIAM P. KELLY

that his residence then

was 1050 N. W. Seventh Street, Miami,

Florida.

On February 3, 1961, NK T-3 advised that telephone

number JE 1 - 7635 was listed

to HYMAN GOTTSMAN, 1225 - 11th

Street, Apartment 2, Miami Beach, Florida.

The above records are confidential and can only be ob-

tained through issuance of a subpoena duces tecum.

The March 26, 196l, issue of "The Asbury Park Sunday

Press" carried the following article concerning the subject

Jollowing an interview by CHARLES BROWER, Press Staff Writer:

"SHORE WOMAN WHO AIDED CASTRO

SORRY, SAYS CUBANS LIKE US

" By CHARLES BROWER

Press Staff Writer

" UNION BEACH -- Despite FIDEL CASTRO's hate America cam-

paign, the average Cuban holds no dislike for Americans.

" This is the observation of a local woman who aided,

in

what she terms a minor way, the young Cuban dictator's

rise to power over three years ago.

_7 -

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 26

---

## Page 27

NK 105-9440

" Miss EVELYN ARCHER, Rte. 36, who helped supply arms

•to Cuban rebels prior to CASTRO's victory over former

Cuban strongman FULGENCIO BATISTA, said she is 'sad and

unhappy' at the results of the Cuban revolution.

" 'The Cuban people do not hate Americans.'

" Many Ask About Americans

" In fact, she said, many Cubans ask if the Americans

really hate them.

" Miss ARCHER said she was received warmly by Cubans

both in Havana and in the interior during a visit to

the island last fall. 'They treated me wonderfully,'

she said.

" 'CASTRO has betrayed the people who put him in power.

He has not kept the many promises he made after his

victory early in 1959.'

" Among the unkept promises made by the bearded dicta-

tor were free elections throughout Cuba within a year.

Arrested in Texas

" 'The Cuban people want to live under a democracy; they

do not want communism,' she asserted.

'CASTRO,' she

said, 'certainly leans toward communism.'

" Miss ARCHER and five other Cuban rebel sympathizers

were arrested three years ago in Texas as they attempted

to ship arms to rebels in Cuba.

She was fined and given

an lö-month suspended jail sentence after pleading no

delense to charges of conspiracy to overthrow the Cuban

government headed by BATISTA.

" The attractive brunette was also placed on probation

for 22 months and barred from traveling to Cuba during

the probation period.

" "I'm not ashamed of what I did. I'm only sorry it has

turned out the way it has,' she said.

" Asked if she would do it all over again she declared

she would but 'not exactly in the same way.'

-8-

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 27

---

## Page 28

NK 105-9440

Minor Role

" Miss ARCHER became involved in the Cuban revolution

through Cuban friends she had met during visits to

Cuba and Miami. Her part was only a minor one, she

says.

" She is reluctant to publicly bring up her past asso-

clations with the Cuban revolution,

but agreed only

to convey to Americans the message that the Cubar

people simply have nothing against Americans.

" 'More and more people are breaking away from the

CASTRO regime each day.

They are escaping into the

hills and out of the country by any means possible.

Thousands have been granted political asylum in this

country.'

" Miss ARCHER said she holds high hopes for the future

liberation of the Cuban people.

Although she said

she is not associated now with revolutionary movements

and knows of no specific plans to overthrow CASTRO she

added it is readily known that such movements are

active.

" 'Many of the groups have been organizing in Miami,'

she said.

" Friends she had been associated with in aiding the

revolution have all defected from Cuba since her visit

last fall. It is for this reason, she said, she would

not dare return to Cuba as

long as CASTRO is in power.

'Crazy With Power'

" When asked why CASTRO has failed to keep his promises

and to bring freedom to Cuba, Miss ARCHER replied that

'he has perhaps gone crazy with power.'

" She added that his luster as a hero is wearing off.

" Miss ARCHER is employed as a hostess in a Shore restau-

rant. She was born in Newark and moved here about 14

years ago. She lives with ber mother, Mrs. ANNA ARCHER."

- 9 -

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 28

---

## Page 29

NK 105-9440

On April 18, 1961, NK I-l advised that the subject

was still working at the Ye

i con ner

and in recent conversation with her, she

cottage Inn, keyport, New Jersey,

mention concerning their conversation in January, 1961, whereby

she had stated she would introduce him to a friend of hers from

Cuba or Miami.

Upon viewing photographs of MANUEL ARQUES, he

said this person was unknown to him.

The following physical description of the subject was

obtained from the New Jersey Department of Motor Vehicles, Trenton,

New Jersey, on February 7, 1961, by SA NORMAN A. HENDRICKS and

from personal observation:

Name

Residence

Race

Sex

Hair

Eyes

Complexion

Height

Weight

EVELYN ARCHER

Box 208, Route 36, Keyport,

New Jersey

White

Female

Brown

Brown

Dark

Five feet, three inches

Approximately 135 pounds

-10*-

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 29

---

## Page 30

FD-323 (3-28-601*

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-9440

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey

April 25, 1961

Title

EVELYN ELEANORE ARCHER

Character

Reference

IS - CUBA

Report of SA HERBERT L. BLOM

dated April 25, 1961;

at Newark.

All sources (except any listed below) used in referenced

communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

300-195633

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 30

---

## Page 31

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

*5010-704

UNITED. STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-95507)

SAC, HOUSTON (105-735)

-

EVELYN ARCHER, aka.

IS - CUBA

(00-Newark)

3/7/61

RE :

Newark letter to the Bureau dated 1/31/61;

Miami airtel to the Bureau dated 2/6/61.

Review of Houston file captioned "CARLOS PRIO

SOCARRAS, ET AL, FPM - CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERS; REGISTRATION

ACT" 00 Miami, Bufile 109-430, Newark file 109-2, Miami file

2-165, reflects that Miami as office of origin in this matter

was in possession of all pertinent information regarding

EVELYN ARCHER. Houston Office has nothing to add to Miami

summation contained in referenced airtel dated 2/6/61.

RUC

2) Bureau (RM)

2 - Miami (105-3507)

(105-2201) (Info.) (RM)

2 - Newark (105-9440) (RM)

2 - Houston:

.. =

(1 - 109-7)

(8)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED # 211,326

DATE 05/85

SPEMACEH UFK)

3!

EX 109

REE- 65

105-95507-

6

MAR 9 1961

1"'

3

380

57 MAR 1 5 1961

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 31

---

## Page 32

F.D-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Date:

2/6/61

(Type in plain text or code)

APPROFBIFTE AGERCIES

AND FIES

OFFTICES

ADVISS

I BONCING

DATE,

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

RE :

32

5P6

AFRROFRIATE AGENE

AND F

OITICES

ADVISED

TING

SLIP

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (105-3507)

CHANGED

COMPENTIAL

ALL INFORMATION CONTATKID

EVELYN

ARCHER

aka

Mrs. Walter Korabiak,

Ruby Archer

101/39 4 308 METER)

IS - CUBA

Exampl on CDS fakee

(00:)

NEWARK)

Dais giversication Indolence

3415778

Title of this case is marked CHANGED to reflect

the additional name RUBY ARCHER, by which the subject is

also known.

Re Newark letter to Director 1/31/61.

Newark airtel to Director 2/18/58, in case entitled

"CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS; ET AL, FPM-CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERS;

REGISTRATION ACT," (00: MIAMI) (Bufile 109-430) (Newark file

109-2) (Miami file 2-165), reflects one RUBY ARCHER was listed

as receiving mail at Mounted Ridge, Route 1, Box 208, Keyport,

N. J., which box belonged to one Mrs. ALICE ARCHER.

This

information was furnished by JOHN HYER, Assistant Postmaster,

Keyport, 2/14/58. Mrs. ALICE ARCHER's home was reflected by

HYER to be on New Jersey Highway 36, Union Beach, N. J.

Further investigation at Union Beach reflected

EVELYN ARCHER may have also used the name RUBY KORBIN.

-RUC-

Bureau (AM) (RM)

2 - Newark (105-9640) (BnES-2) *(AM) (RU) - T81981

= Houston (Info) CAN (RMMCT-16/05-95507-

(The

cour Pumar

2 - Miami

(1 - 105-3507)

- 105-2221):

Approved:

Sent

M

Special Agent ih Charge

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 32

---

## Page 33

FD-36 (Rev. 12=13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 105-3507

CONTPENTIALI

similiarity of KORBIN to subject's alias KORABIAK is

noted.)

Houston airtel to Bureau 2/20/58, in the PRIO

case, reflects RUBY ARCHER, aka EVELYN ARCHER, Keyport,

N. J., the girlfriend of MANUEL ARQUES, was arrested, together

with ARQUES and several other individuals associated with

PRIO, by U. S. Customs, on 2/17/58, at Harris County, Texas,

while in possession of

arms and ammunition which were

allegedly to be illegally exported from the U. S. to Cuba.

The 9/14/58 issue of "Diario Las Americas," a

Miami, Florida daily Spanish language newspaper, reflects

MANUEL ARQUES,

EVELYN ARCHER, RENE PUJOL and FRANCISCO OREGON

were sentenced to two years in prison by Federal courts in

connection with "trying to export illegally arms from the

United States, intended for the Cuban rebels (of FIDEL

CASTRO)," but were granted "parole." The date of sentencing

was not

reflected. U

on 0/3/60, MICHAEL A. ROMANO, U. S. Customs, Miami,

advised SA WILLIAM P. KELLY the name "RUBY ARCHER, Box 208,

Keyport, New Jersey," was found among many other names and

addresses in the possession of ARQUES on 7/22/60, on which

date ROMANO searched the baggage and person of ARQUES at

Miami International Airport, following ARQUES' return from

Havana on that date.

usS

NhAL

REVIEWED BY PB/JFK TASK FORCE

- 2 -

ON

7.23.90 dar

I RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

Approved: -

-

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 33

---

## Page 34

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI.

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 105-3507

P

CONT

On 3/25/60, former MM 715-S, BERNARD HOLMES BRENNAN,

Moodus, Connecticut, who, during October, 1960, publicly

*''' disclosed his former association as a Bureau informant, advised

SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN that as of 3/25/60, MANUEL ARQUES was

dating a girl named EVELYN ARCHER, who then lived at the

America Hotel, 273 NE 2nd St., Miami. BRENNAN stated ARCHER

was involved in an arms smuggling affair with ARQUES in the

Houston area during February, 1958, and was reportedly arrested

with ARQUES.

The foregoing information received from BRENNAN is

contained in Miami file 134-418-Sub A-13. L

On 10/26/60, former MM 715-S advised he went to

Havana to meet ARQUES

during September, 1960. He stated that

while at Havana "RUBY" (not further identified) was there with

ARQUES. Former MM 715-S stated "RUBY" was worried about her

parents knowing she was in Cuba, and she expressed concern

about the large number of Chinese men at the Commodore Hotel,

Havana, whom "RUBY" saw eating on one occasion, and stated

she did not like it at all.

This information is located in Miami file 134-418-94,

pages 3-4. u

Report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., dated 3/13/58,

Miami, in the PRIO case, a copy of which was furnished to

Newark for information, reflects information concerning the

arrest of RUBY ARCHER, ARQUES and others 2/18/58.1

VITAL

-

Approved:

-

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318 Docld: 34489792 Page 34

---

## Page 35

F.D-36 (Rev. 12=13-56)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 105-3507

.CONFI

TRAL

MANUEL ADALBERTO ARQUES DIAZ, aka MANUEL ARCE,

MARIO ARCE, "MANNY," "MANOLO," "MANOLITO," IS-CUBA;

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA, is subject pending Bufile 105-83117,

Miami file 105-2221, In which case Miami is origin. U

ARQUES, a self-admitted supporter of PRIO, and

naturalized U. S. citizen of Cuban birth, formerly was

Publicity Director of the Cuban Tourist Commission at Miami

until he resigned during November, 1960. U1

ARQUES has been identified by several sources as

having been an intelligence agent in the U. S. for JUAN ORTA,

who until recently was the Secretary of FIDEL CASTRO. @ (U)

Upon interview by BuAgents 12/1/60, ARQUES denied

ever having been a Cuban intelligence agent.

However, he

admitted sending written and verbal messages to ORTA during

1959 concerning activities in U. S. of "Batistianos." ARQUES

stated he is not in accord with policies of CASTRO government

and considers Communism to be dominant in CASTRO regime- (X(4)

The following description of ARQUES was obtained

through observation and interview by SAs WILLIAM P. KELLY

and WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN on 12/1/60: /

Name

Also known as

MANUEL ADALBERTO ARQUES DIAZ

Manolo Arques, Manolito Arques,

"Manny"

- 4 -

CONFiDENTIAL

Approved:

Sent

M . Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 35

---

## Page 36

FD-36 (Rev. 12=13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 105-3507

Race

Sex

Date of birth

Place of birth

Address

Height

Weight

Build

Hair

Eyes

Occupation :

White

Male

4/23/25

Havana, Cuba

530 Ocean Drive,

Miami Beach, Fla.

(Barbizon Apartment Hotel),

as of 12/1/60, with

anticipated address after

12/2/60 being the Brazil

Hotel Apts., 6525 Collins

Avenue, Miami Beach, Fla.

5'10"

160 lbs.

Medium

"Salt and pepper"

Former Publicity Director

of Cuban Tourist Commission,

Miami, Fla., 1/60 - 11/10/60;

former car rental agent for

Coture Car Rental Agency,

Miami, Fla.; former desk clerk,

Hotel America, Miami, Fla.;

anticipated occupation after

12/2/60 - desk clerk, Brazil

Hotel Apts., 6525 Collins

Avenue, Miami Beach, Fla.

- 5 -

001:

Approved:

-

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318 Docld: 34489792 Page 36

---

## Page 37

FD-36 (Rev. 12=13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

MM 105-3507

Approved:

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

i X.

Characteristics

Sharp features, sharply

pointed nose, distinguished

appearance, speaks English

with noticeable Latin accent,

Marital status

well dressed

Single

Parents

Father

MARCOS ARQUES RODRIGUEZ,

deceased

Mother

FRANCISCA DIAZ DE ARQUES,

714 Animas, Havana, Cuba

Nationality

Naturalized U. S. citizen,

naturalized U. S. District

Court, Lynchburg, Va., 1949

Education

Ferrum Junior College,

Ferrum, Virginia, 1947-48;

Lynchburg, Virginia, 1948-49

Social Security No. 229-36-5431 in name

MANUEL ARQUES

Military service

U. S. Army

Army Serial No.

42281912, 9/3/46 - 5/12/47,

Honorable Discharge

Admitted Criminal

Record

Arrested by Cuban Police of

BATISTA regime - 1956, for

alleged revolutionary

activities, held three days

and released;

2/58 - Houston, Texas,

attempted arms smuggling,

served 18 months probation

-6 -

-

Sent

_M Per:

Special Agent in Charge

*.?!

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 37

---

## Page 38

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 105-3507

XANTEN

On 1/20/61,

ARQUES advised SA KELLY his residence

then was 1050 Nw 7th St., Miami. U

Records of Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph

Co., Miami Beach, Fla., were reviewed by IC JON W. ARMSTRONG,

2/3/61. Telephone JE 1-7635 is reflected to be listed to

HYMAN GOTTSMAN, 1225 11th St., Apt.2, Miami Beach.

The above records are confidential and can only

be obtained through issuance of a subpoena duces tecum directed

to Mx. JOHN J. RYAN, Manager, Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Co., Miami, or his authorized representative.

The above information was obtained from Mrs. PEG MUNDEN,

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co., Miami Beach, Fla.

(protect).

Miami indices reflect no references as to HYMAN

GOTTSMAN.

Miami is aware of no recent contact between ARQUES

and the subject.

Enclosed for Newark Office are 2 photos of MANUEL

ADALBERTO ARQUES DIAZ, aka.

52201

SANTA!:

-7-

Approved:

-

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318 Docld: 34489792 Page 38

---

## Page 39

•Jores

SAC,

(105-9440)

rector, F8T°9105-95507) 511

2/16/61

mit

EVELYN ARCHER, aka.

IS - CUBA

ReNKlet 1/31/61 and Mu airtel 2/6/61. U

Bufiles disclose that pertinent information concerning

subject was made available to Newark in referenced Miami airtel.

Mandel Arques mentioned in Referenced Newark letter is undoubtedly

identical with Manuel Arques.

It is noted that background data

concerning Arques is set forth in referenced Miami airtel.

Bufiles contain no additional information concerning

Manuel Artas.

• Miami

1

-Houston

FEJ:gP

(6)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED * 211,326

DATE 3/5/85

NOTE:

Newark has initiated inquiries concerning subject on

basis of pro-castro remarks on part of subject.

Newark requested

review of indices concerning subject and persons with whom she

is reportedly in contact.

6-1 17464-17-61

MAILED 19

FEB1 5 1961

COMM-FBI

olson

ohr

F'arsons

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Malone

i McGuire

Rosen

Trotter

Evans

Jw. C. Sullivan.

Tele. Room

Ingram

andy

52FEB/2

MAIL ROOM

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 39

19

TELETYPE UNIT

LEB TeNaed

9ot-10std2

---

## Page 40

LAL' FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN. INT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

1/31/61

auls

FROM :

SAC, NEWARK (105-9440)

SUBJECT:

SHOMACIEN TA

EVELYN

ARCHER

Mrs.

aka.

I INFORMATION CAN FANTY

Walter Korabiak

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

IS - CUBA

DATE 3/5/85

6

BYSPE BJA/hCL

# 24,326

On 1/24/61, JOSEPH QUAIL, Health Inspector, Middle-

town Township, New Jersey, who requested his identity be con-

cealed, advised SA HERBERT L. BLOM he has known the subject

for many years and that several months ago, while talking to

her at a bar, she was praising FIDEL CASTRO and what he was

doing for Cuba.

how he felt about making a "buck" or if he cared how he made

do about aking a hous

Later in the conversation she asked QUAIL

it.

QUAIL, in going along with the conversation, stated to

her that he was interested in making money, to which she re-

plied that she was expecting a friend from either Cuba or

Miami (not recalled by QUAIL) and that when he arrived she

would have them get together.

QUAIL, she has made no further mention of this matter, although

he has seen her on several occasions. QUAIL said he had heard

it rumored that ARCHER has been involved in the sale of guns to

Cuba in the past as well as having visited Cuba since CASTRO

took power but did not know

this of his own knowledge. U

QUAIL said that ARCHER is divorced from her husband,

has two children and resides with her mother, ANNA ARCHER, On

Route 36, Union Beach, N.J. QUAIL stated he

would endeavor to (D-217

discreetly obtain additional information concerning her activi-

ties.

It is to be noted that during the course of another

investigation in the Union Beach, N.J., area, it was mentioned

by Chief JOHN CONROY that EVELYN ARCHER had been incarcerated by

some Federal Agency for gunrunning into Cuba.

Chief CONROY

said that this was rumor in his department and did not know

the facts involved. He said he did not know how she made her

EX-134*

(2)- Búreau

(RM)

2 - Miami

(RM)

REC. 8805=

MCH • 16

95507-

2 - Houston

1 - Newark

(RM)

18 FEB 1 1961

HLB: vwb

(7)

Let t hewad

2/10/61

I-MM.

p-toustoz

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 40

---

## Page 41

NK 105-9440

living but in his opinion she probably had a boyfriend who

kept her, that she did a bit of traveling with her boyfriend

but always returned to visit her children. LA

CHARLIE "THE BLADE TOURINE waS a girl named EVELYN ARCHER (ph)

of Houston, Texas. He said this girl is married and may be

involved in gun purchasing and sellingl

On 1/24/61, ALICE DONNELLY, New Jersey Bell Telephone

Company, Red Bank, N.J., (protect identity) advised SA BLOM

that ANNARCHER, Route 36, U

to COlfax -2033

were as follows: ANNAXARCHOR

10/21/60

- Call from Mrs. FNU ARCHER to MANDEL YARQVES, at

Havana 77241

CUBA

11/18/60 - Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

11/24/60 - Call to Miami (JE 1-7635)

12/ 3/60 - Collect call from MANUELfARTAS from Miami (JE 1-7635)

to CO 4-2033.

FLORIDA

Based on information obtained from JOSEPH QUAIL, credit

records and Monmouth County, N.J., Election Records, ARCHER 15

described as follows:

Name

EVELYN ARCHER, aka.

rS. Walter Korabiak

Residence

Route 36, Union Beach, N.J.

DOB

5/19/21, Newark, N.J.

Race

White

Sex

Female

Hairc

Brown

Eyes

Brown

Complexion

Dark

Height

5' 7"

Marital Status

Divorced

Occupation

Cashier

Newark indices are negative concerning MANDEL ARQVES

-2-

NW 78318 Docld: 34489792 Page 41

---

## Page 42

NK 105-9440

Or MANUEL ARTAS. V

The Bureau is requested to check indices for any

pertinent information concerning subject's past activities

of which Newark is not aware.

The Bureau is also requested to check the names

MANDEL ARQUES and MANUEL ARTAS. (A

MIAMI OFFICE

1. Will identify subscriber to JE 1-7635. U

2. Will attempt to further identify MANUEL ARTAS,

noting the similarity to the name MANDEL ARQVES Of Havana.

Will check indices for any pertinent information

concerning subject. U

HOUSTON OFFICE

Will check indices for any pertinent information

concerning subject. U

NEWARK OFFICE

AT NEWARK, N.J.

Will check ATTD, Newark, for all pertinent background

information concerning subject.

AT UNION BEACH, N. J.

Will secure additional background infornation con-

cerning subject's activities. u

AT MIDDLETOWN TOWNSHIP, N.J.

Will recontact JOSEPH QUAIL for any additional in-

formation he can furnish concerning subject's activities. U

=3-

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 42

---

## Page 43

. 4-22 (Rrs. 1-22-65)1

Federal Bureau, of Investig on

Records Branch

2-8

:. 1961

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention

Return to

SECRET

1531

506

Room

apervisor

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Searchy

All References (Subversive & Nonsub

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main

References Onl

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only. (On the Nose)

AE4 Variations

Declassify on:

DANG JFK

Sub

ject

EvelyN ARcheR

irthd

ate

Pl

ace

- 1=21

Address UNioN

Beach

Localities

mis. Walter,

Searcher

RA ATE ITOR DATEON CONTAINED

WIENE MORN FILE NUMBER

ME.

105-95501

704

4294275-57

31-548866

Im

25-86169

NT

40-3798

OI

62-62736-3

62-62736-5

1100 - 769

100-26266

100-38784

OT

105-83117

5

318p. 8

20 р. 9

52 1р. Е, 3, 14,43

109-430

2075 p. 54'

1092430гA.

Its

Post

-

1091430

Fetin denis archings

written 109-430-A

Ito. Спичиси

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 43

---

## Page 44

+22a (ReY: 8-23-57)

NUMEROUS REFÉRENCP-

SEARCH SLIP

Subj: -

Welyn Grckerd

Supervisor

Vimos

R#-

- Date 2-8

Room

1531

Searcher

Initial -

SM

SERIAL

Lt

FILE NUMBER

Evelyn M.Grichert

31148603

microfilno

14-608

Evelgn/ meldruums Archar/

Kubey Archir

109-430

109- 430-A

Ha. Press 3-12-58:

Dupe Ne Port -2-13 68

Its• Post 2-19-58

hash. Star 2-19-58

Is. Post 2-20-58

Supe Torah Sterl 2-19-58

aupe

104- 430

2075p. 54

2010

31- 60345

3 5200.09, 74

5

nucofilsi

NL

46-18715

148

Mrs. Walter Korabiate

Lt

105-95507

W. Korabiste

1100-190593

Name

searchedas

lis

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 44

---

## Page 45

4-22" (Rev. 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investi

Records Branch

2-8

ion

-19.61

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention

(Return to

amer

Supervisor

131

Room

40l

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

_Regular Request (Analytical Search)

SAll References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

•Nonsubversive References Only

Main

References Only

Type, of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations

Subject

MaNdeL ARgueS

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

Date

Prod.

Searcher Sm

Initials -

SERIAL

FILE NUMBER

mandel argues

wV

mandel arques)

manny arques

109-4130

05-83111 - If ident, there

are approy. S0 refs. on manny

manuel, and Buildups -

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED F21,326

DATE 315/85

BYSPUBTA

SPOMAC

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 45

---

## Page 46

4-22 TRev.

• 1-22-601

Federal Bureau of Investi

Records Branch

2-8

ion

• 1961

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention

Return to

1531

Room

supervisor

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

_Regular Request (Analytical Search)

JAll References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

1 Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations

Subject

MANUEL ARtAS

Birthdate & Place -

Address

Localities

RA.

Prod.

- Date -

FILE NUMBER

Searcher sm

Initials -

SERIAL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED T 24,300

DATE 316785

1-29-94

SPBMIC/EH(TFR

NW 78318 Docld:34489792 Page 46

---

