# 124-90137-10067

## Page 1

124-90137-10067

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/16/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90137-10067

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-30972-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO :

LALLIER

TITLE :

DATE: 09/14/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

PETROS MOUTSOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32337301 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALI: INFORMATION CONTATIS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCRET WERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES G

INMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. L'Allier

L'

SECRED

DATE: September 14, 1960

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM

: S. J. Papich

DECLARE CATION AND/OR

RELEASE DIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPTION

SUBJECT:

PETROS MOUTSOS

INTERNAL SECURITY - GREECE AND CUBA.

kpuf

16-23-98 6

The subject was utilized by Central Intelligence Agency

(CIA) as an informantlin the communist-dominated Greek Maritimes!

Organization, 0ENO His past activities have been the subject/

A too go tie at.

During the past year, his

isefulness to ClA had practically expired, primarily because of &

¡subject's desire to remove himself from the OENO atmosphere S

that the subject is currently a crew member of the SS

on September 13, 1960, Mrs. Jane Roman, IS Radhore

which 1s scheduled to dock at New Orleans within the next/two

weeks. CIA has had clandestine meetings with Moutos and is S

now endeavoring to work out an arrangement whereby he can

Cuba fand can serve as a source of information in that country]Sin

order to arrange for such travel, it will be necessary for moutos

to jump ship at New Orleans.

(S)

of Immigration and Naturalization Service.

CIA will then hold

Conferences with Moutos and subject will thereupon proceed to

Havana under a cover being established for him (5)

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moukos will endeavor to

have contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who is well known to

us and who has a communist background. His marriage to Boyer

was actually promoted in order to improve his position in OENO]S)

he has been separated from his wife for a lengthy period although

she has indicated that she desires to live with him again. CIA

hopes thata resumption of relations between the two will help s

Moutos Lin establishing worthwhile contacts in communist circles

in Cuba. Ve

SJP: bas as

105

Tolson -

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

w.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

1 -

Mr. Donahoe

1 -

Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

989/93

Classified by/9803 da/gel

Declassify on: DADE Ou, 386

(968 510/062-32445-77K)

'7

12-10-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 SED/RSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

#E: 505-30972-686

SEP 26 1960

NATHER

SECRED

LET: New Ollears

9/23/60

UHN: wit: beac

1- Baltimore ,-N140

NH 50953 DocId: 32337301 Page 2

---

