# 124-10210-10096

## Page 1

124-10210-10096

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10096

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2493

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

11/05/1974

'PAGES:

3

• SUBJECTS :

SGI, INS, DEPORTATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

• RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

. 79.1

NH 50953

368

DooId: 32292820

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

EC9Y PPEMEPITION

'FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SEE NEVE

SIDE

SE

TO

FROM

ClassiSo

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-317))

-Declassily

ARReal 9-1128

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13)

11/5/74

2116796

SUBJECT:

2449707K

HNO

OPRIATE ACEN

SAMUEL M.

AND ELI

GIANCANA, aka

"GiANCANACITP

ITER

DAI

9/187

Pass p

ESTOS

Reference Mexico City

airtel 11/4/74.

The contents of this letter are relevant to furd

referenced airtel setting out background concerning the

possible reasons for subject's deportation.

However

this

is reported separately because classified confidential and

not to be reported for dissemination.

(E)

LCIA, Mexico City, was requested to furnish any

information they might have

concerning subject's presence

in Mexico and deportation..

On 10/1/74 Mr. ROD MARSHALL

advised that he had furnished some information which he

believed originated with the Drug Enforcement Administratio

(DEA) [to FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS,

the Subsecretary ofu

Government (Gobernacion), the agency which deported subject

He believed this was done some weeks before subject was de

3

13

with DhA at the time,

might have asked him to do this. ""

MARSHALL advised that after subject was detained. (GUTIERREZ CC

BARRIOS called them to notify them

the detention and

subject was going to be deported

(DRO),

In subsequent contact,

GUTTERRE< BARRIOS said that

this action was taken because subject-was illegally in Mexico

and that the action was notebased "onpany act vitoes.of a

Mexican law.

saying simply that the subjéc

papers were not in order

On 10/2774 Mr%

MAR SHALE

delivered a blind

classified confidentialodated

"Information

on Sam Giancana" as follows

92

1.8.58 CUNT

TAL

249

2,63

SNOK 5t 8 1.97

EXT

5

-Bureau

SOTUDUTS

(1-Foreign Liaison Utte

(2-Chicago) (92-349)ISbFOMAT

Mexico City

07RIS

ILLY

Buy Us

gularly

5010-108-02

USICIED

How Inder

be Payroll Savens Plân 0 - Wi

NH 50953 DocId: 32292820

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

MEX 92-13

"On 23 May 1974 we asked la high-level source Ca

secretariat of Gobernacion, so

It was believed that

C they might have some information on GIANCANA.

1974 g

• us that the Government of Mexico (GOM) was expelling

GIANCANA from the

country, to the United States,

within 24 hours

"In meetings held with our contact on 23 August,

28 September, and I October 1974, we brought up the

subject of GIANCANA.,

The contract said that the

local immigration authorities had been seeking

GIANCANA because he was in the country illegally.

They finally located him in July,

arrested him on

the spot, and deported him the following day.

The

expulsion was not carried out on the basis of any

specitic Intormation supplied by the Us Embassy,

nor

,were there any indications that he was engaged in

Rather it was an

internal GOM decision to expel an unwanted

who was living Illegally in Mexico

"IDENTIAL

It is noted that this blind memorandum does not

appear to document the previous

Information From IN MARSHALL

and is somewhat contradictory l

embassy Narcotics Committee as a so-called "joint target. " (C

He stated he did not believe that he had indicated in any.

manner to GUTIERREZ BARRIOS that the embassy thought subject c

was involved in narcotics activities in Mexico.

He did

mentioned the possibility

that because of emphasis being

placed on narcotics by both governments, high Mexican officials

might have reached the decision that subject should be ex-

pelled beca

use ot his widely publicized connections with the

1.7

2

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 50953 DooId: 32292820 Page 3

---

