# 124-10239-10171

## Page 1

124-10239-10171004

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10239-10171

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE. NUMBER: 105-3702-464

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TRENT, ROLAND E.

TO:

LEG, MX

TITLE:

DATE: 03/13/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, BKG, LIAISON WITH MX AUTHORITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/17/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

WH 50953

DocId: 32183961 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTICAL, FORM NA 10

8040-104-03

54 GUN. REG. NO. 21

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:Legat, Mexico (105-3702)

SECRET.

((98038095l

DATE. 3m 13 OL

FROM

: 8 SA Roland E. Trent

0-8-93

1503

1-95-94

TVX

, SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY, OSWAID

IS-P-Cuba

Re:

ALlegatIOn DE PIRO GUTTERREZ VALDICIA K(2)

Or 3-13-64, MARGARITA MUNGUIA, Vása Section, USe

Embassy's

exico, D.P., made available visa file data

concerning

ERNESTO

MITRANI LEVY, holder of Cuban passport No. 26367, issued in Decembers.

1959, with expiration date in 196L•

Addresses for this individual were given as Miguel Aleman

#259, Apartment #301, XEXxaN Colonia Roma, Mexico

Calle Arellano Esquina "C", #269, Hatrana, Duba. f2

MITRANI's date of birth is shown as December 29, 1936, at

Havana, Cuba, and he. 1$

further described as fair complexiong

5' 7"; 176 lbs:; Cuban national, no scars of marks, brown hair

and green eyes.

The visa file data also shows MIIRANI to be

of Turkish extractione

MITRANI secured a one entry B-2 visa on I-27-61 valid through

4-27-61, for

the

alleged purpose of a pleasure trip to Los Angeles,

California.

242)

The visa file

card contains a photograph of ERNESTO MITRANI

this card indicated his employment as of

a merchant and

nanufacturer of plasties. izel'anuary, 1961, as

1n January, 1967, was for a non-inigrant visa to visit the lose

Classified by 304

RET

Declassion

CLASS. & EXTROY

SP 3TER/RH/AHR 7-5-79

REASON-FCIM II,

72.4.2

DATE OF REVID

113-51

105-3202-464

1?"

SADIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

• DIA HAS NO OBJECTE

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED - 58H 9/29/43

(9503 RAD/sel 1/4/93 5Fk)

чано

SECRET

_/-

HH

5-09

9/8/98

CLASSIFIED BY SeSSLA maL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (C)

(JFK)

---

## Page 3

The following information is classified"SECRET" and not

to be further disseminated without

specitic authority of

the CIA,

Mexico City Station S

SECKEA

AS 01 7-6-51 one I MITRANI

was

working in the Cuban

offered to cooperate

The E. MITRANI

as ERNESTO MITRANI

mentioned above was subsequently identified

(W)

ERNESTO MITRANI aka E. Mitzani, mentioned above, was subsequently

Idenüified as ERNESIO MITRANI LEVY, Who in about December, 1959

*Was

employed as an "Auxillary Conaular Clerk" in the Cuban Embassy,

Mexico, D.F.

ERNESTO MITRANI LEV had reportedly been helppul

to anti-CASTRO forces in Mexico.

JOSE ANTONIO PORTUONDO

On October 24, 1960, MITRANI received a telegram recalling

him to Havana, Cuba; however, he did not want to return to Cuba,

and reportedly went to the then Ambassador FORTURONDO, and

explained that he planned on marrying a lexican girl; that

his father had offerred him employment in Mexico,

and for these

reasons he did. not want to return to Cuba. PORTURONDO reportecly

gounseled TEXAK MITRANI to write to the Cuban Foreign Office in

avana and explain his problem, which ke MITRANI reportedly did.

At that time MITRANI was the holder of Cuban Diplomatic passport

No. 480 and also held a regular passport..:

68(4)

MITRANI reportedly had arrived in Mexico on December 15, 1959;

he was a batchelor at the time of his arrival, and his father

was reportedly engaged in business in Mexico.

In about 1700 was given as residing at the corner of Avenida

nsurgentes sur and Viaducto Miguel Aleman, Mexico, D.® s

telephone No.

41-96-11. The telephone and

nt 10-21-60

Cand MITRANI

was reportedly told that a visa toenter the U.s. would

be arranged for him if he would publically denounce the Cuban regim

MITRANI reportedly never publically denounced the Cuban regime

although la file data reflects that someone wrote to the Cuban

Embassy in 1960 stating

that MITRANI was a "spy" and cooperating

with anti-CASTRO forcos

MITRANI reportedly acting as

to the CIA

"cut-out" sppplied one report

B=13-62.

Mexico City station a which was submitted on or about

the ClA, Mexico,015y

MITRANI since

813-020

Station

has no data on file concerning

Above CIA data secured from DAVID PHILLIPS.

SECRET

NH 50953 DoeId: 32183961

Page

3

---

## Page 4

«i"=

'De

secrat

MC

File review concerning ERNESTO MITRANI revealed thefollowing:

18, FE. 3' PINEDRATION

and Sor. 19,

OF CUBAN

DIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS, FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA"

contains letterhead memorandum dated 10-24-60 ,hich

indicates that ERNESTO MITRANI LFVI was then at Assistant

Consul, Cuban Embassy, Mexico, DaF

classed "SECRET"' from

6 Cla, Mexico City Station.S

MC File 109-70, Ser. 850, (BUfile 109]2-210)

enttiled "FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS «CUBA" •

Report of SA JOSEPH

assistant in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico, D.F., was contemplating

defecting and. leaving his position.

As of 1-5-61, according to the

/ 15 PSI,MITRANI

was reportedly still

...

-4-

NH 50953

DocId: 32183961

Page 4

---

