# 124-10204-10147

## Page 1

Date :

Page :

10/07/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10147

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 92-2781-1ST NR

97

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE

05/23/59

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

: LST, ASSOC, BUSS, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/98

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Helease under the

President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318

Docld:34489545 Page 1

---

## Page 2

5/23/59

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: . SAC, MIAMI (62-

ELOY GARCIA

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

My 416-C has advised this office CARCIA, a Cuban,

is "hiding" at the home of LoUIS DIAz, 2715 Royal Court;

Tampa, Fla.

GARCIA Identified as operator of Johnny's 21

club,

GARCIA 1s a close friend of RICHARD PEREZ, aka

located at 21et and to de te cant too

Tampa sambler working for SANTO CRAPRICANT? between

Jr., in

Havana, and GARCIA supposealy was a contact

TRAFFICANTE and the Batista Government.

IOUIS DIAZ and RICHARD PEREZ are married to

sisters and were formerly associated in a bolita operation

at Tampa taken over by TRAFFICANTE:

According to Informant: GARCIA reportedly being

sought by the Castro Government for dealing in Cuban money

and some fraud case in which he was involved with a judge.

Informant advises CARCIA was allegedly involved in dope

traffic and strong arm activity.

Legat immediately advise Miami 1I GARCIA being

sought by present Government and on what charges.

4

Bureau (AM).

- Miami

JPO:$11

81 = 137-2

SANTO TRAFFICANTE)

- 137-225)

(8)

ORIGINAL FILED IN

-524

NOT RHOORDA

87 MAY 29 1959

30

62 JUN8

1959

NW 78318

Docld:34489545 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 62-

Information will be furnished INS if GARCIA in

United States illegally but consideration will be given to

interview of GARCIA for information concerning SANTO

TRAFFICANTE.

Additional copies being furnished Bureau for

transmittal Legat, Havana.

-

2

NW 78318

Docld:34489545 Page 3

---

