# 124-10203-10494

## Page 1

Date :

Page

08/10/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10203-10494

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-2914-217

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE

:

09/26/61

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECT'S

:GM, SMO, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

u25 Helease under the Fresident John F. Kenned!

sassination Records Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318

Docld:34489464 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESAIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 26 6 1961

Nr. Tolson

Mr. Bermont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoachl

Mr. Evans Lif

Mr. Malone_

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel.

Mr.

Trotter_

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

9-26-61

8-33 PM

IGH

O DIRECTOR, FBI

192-29146

192-29181

FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH

192-2361 192-2281

CABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. ON

stop.

EVENING OF SEPT. TWENTY FIVE LAST, A PCI ADVISED THAT GAMBLING OF

ALL TYPES HAS BEEN SUPPRESSED IN NEW. KENSINGTON, PAO, TO A POINT

BEYOND ANYTHING IN HIS RECOLLECTION FOR LAST TWENTY FIVE YEARS •

NUMBERS, SPORTS BETS AND HORSE BETS ARE DOWN TO ABOUT TWENTY FIVE

PERCENT OF THE NORMAL OF ONE MONTH AGO AND CARD, CRAPS AND BARBOUT

GAMES ARE EXTINCT. MANY GAMBLERS. IN NEW KENSINGTON FEAR THEY WILL

NOT BE EMPLOYED FOR A LONG TIME AND ALSO FEAR, SINCE THEY ARE NOW

AWARE OF THE EXTENSIVE IRS INVESTIGATION , THAT THEY MAY BE

INDICTED FEDERALLY. PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C ADVISES THAT ON SEPT •

TWENTY FIVE LAST, WILLIE SAMS, THE MANNARINO QUOTE BRAINS END QUOTE IN

CAMBLING OPERATIONS, CONSULTED WITH AN ATTORNEY IN A ROOM IN THE CARLTO

HOUSE, PITTSBURGH, DUE TO SAMS- BELIEF

HI AND MAY RAKE A SUCCROSHE dOS ATONE ME LOS A INVESTICATINL

SUBJESTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED ANBEPANGERGUS.

CORR-LAST LINE RD SHE SUBJECTS

GEND AND ACK PLS

WA

8037 PM OK FBI WA RAC

TU DISC

190%

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

NW 78318

Docld:34489464 Page 2

---

