# 124-10223-10173

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

04/20/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10223-10173

RECORDS SERIES

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-3267-522

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: SAC, RH

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/27/63

PAGES

:10

SUBJECTS : JRO, ASSOC, TELCAL, BKG, RCK, GAMBLING, RACK ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/17/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

£025 Release under the President John

- Kennedy Ascassination Records

ollechon ech ot 1942

NW 78318 Docld:34489919 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. !0

•50105:04

-UNITED STATES G ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

PROTE

SUBJECT:

SAC

_ RICHMOND (92-264)

JOHN

AR

OSSELLI, aka

(00: LOS ANGELES)

DATE: 9/27/63

Re Los Angeles letters to New York dated 8/7 and

30/63.1

The referenced communications requested the

Richmond and various other Divisions to ascertain the

identity of subscribers to numerous telephone numbers

which have been called from a telephone of ROBERT A.

MAHEU and Associates, 10889 Wilshire Boulevard, Los

Angeles, California. U

The results of the investigation by Richmond

are being forwarded to the Bureau because two former

Special Agents of

the FBI are among the subscribers

to

telephones called from this Los Angeles office. U

The following investigation was conducted by

SA HOWARD E. RICHARDSON:

The information from the tele-

phone records referred to below is confidential and cannot

be made public prior to the issuance of a subpoena duces

tecum directed

to the Manager of the Chesapeake and Potomac

Telephone Company (C & P Tel. Co.), or his duly authorized

representative in the various cities referred to below: u

RE:

WILLIAM JO STATEN

3531 N. Valley Street

Arlington,

, Virginia

The records of the C & P Tel.

Arlington,

on 8/19/63, revealed that number 536-6343 (KE 6-6343) is

2 - Bureau

2

- Los Angeles (92-113)

- WFO (92-715)

2 - Richmond

HER/mw

(8)

92-2262-522

2 SEP 30 1963

OCT 7 1963

REC- 104

5 5 0079

1963

205

PERS. REC. UTTE

NW 78318 Docld:34489919 Page 2

---

## Page 3

RH 92-264

Credit Bureau, Inc., at which time he located

a report

7/5/63.

This report reflects that KEITH L. HANNA,

and his wife

VIRGINIA, have resided

at 615 Poplar Drive,

Falls Church, Virginia, since August 1, 1944.

listed as being 51 years of age and employed by the Small

Business Administration as an Administrator Comptroller

where he had been employed since 12/17/51. His estimated

Income was listed as $12,845.00 per year.

He was formerly

employed by the U. S. Department of Agriculture as an

accountant. He formerly resided at 316 N. Oxford St.,ì

Arlington,

Va., and at Acton, Indiana. His credit was

rated as satisfactory. U

Officer HOTTLE, Records Section,

Falls Church

Police Department, falls Church, Va., on 8/23/63, advised

IC THOMAS E. DREWRY that records of

his office do not

contain any information identifiable with KEITH L. HANNA,

approximately 51 years of age.

He stated that the records

of his citice de ce see that one KEITH LAWRENCE HANNA,

015. Poplarst., Falls Church, Va., a white male, born

10/19/42, has been issued several traffic citations by

that department.

This individual appears to be a son of

the above captioned KEITH I. HANNA U

RE: J. H

5052

SIMS

- 36th Street

Arlington, Virginia

time this telephone service was installed on 0/11/61, was

assigned to the Industrial War College as a member of the

U. S. Navy.

- 8 -

NW 78318 Docld:34489919 Page 3

---

## Page 4

RH 92-264

RE: EUGENE TANISON

2424 Lunceford Lan

Farts Church, virginia

CS RH 97-0 on 9/6/63, advised SA HOWARD

E.

RICHARDSON that telephone number TW 3-7764 and TW 3-8195

are both subscribed to by EUGENE I. TISON, 2424 Lunce-

ford Lane, Falls Church,

va.

TISON has a "kep button" set. y

The 1963 Falls Church, Va. City Directory re-

flects that EUGENE T. TISON, whose wife is identified as

CATHERINE M. TISON, is a communications worker for the

U. S. Government.

specific job and the agency for

which he works were not identifiea.u

LEADS:

WASHINGTON FIELD

AT WASHINGION, D. C.

1. Will verify the employment of ROSCOE C.

WILLIAMS at the Standard Oil Company. u

2.

Will verify the employment of KEITH I. HANNA

at the Small Business Administration. u

Will contact logical sources and any infor-

mation indicating gambling or racketeering activities on

the part of any of the individuals mentioned herein as

residence of the Virginia portion of the Washington,

D. C.-

Metropolitan area. u

RICHMOND

AT ARLINGION, VIRGINIA

Will review the rental

application of J! O'HARRA

at the Governor Hill Apartments, 5111

8th Road, for

-9-

NW 78318 Docld: 34489919 Page 4

---

