# 124-10114-10010

## Page 1

124-10114-10010,

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

it JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM®

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10114-10010

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109090-356

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1964

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT: WC, ASSISTANCE, NEWS MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH AND CIA

LTR TO LEG, PA

HH 50953 DocId: 32156250 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ene!

OTTONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GUVERIVMENT

Memorandum

teoe

• ENCLOSURE

TO :

Director, FBI (62-109090)

Secret DATE:

10-28-64

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM :

Legat, Paris

(62-148) (P.)

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

ACLEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON

IN THIS DOCUMENT,

THE ASSASSINATION OF

Enterest Be

PRESIDENT KENNEDY

(K 3/10/99)

LEACH

enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a self-

explanatory Paris Embassy CAS (Controlled American Sóurce

CIAl memorandum along with a copy of the letter in Spanish

- SM

The Paris Office has referred this matter to

High General Staff (HGS), Madrid, Spain, with a request

for investigation by that service in an effort to locate

and identify the sender of the letter, and to interview bim

any data

he may be able to supply.

The results of this

Paris request

of the HGS will be promptly reported when

available. g(U),

3 - Bureau

(Enc. 2)

ENCLOSURE

(1 - Liaison Section)

1 - Paris

HPW :HD

1 Cutileri

(4)

Oh with / veras

Service ned Se

SacE

418P

35

ISFR02D

A0D ETE

1-6-64

GENCIES

ICES

#6-5862-109090 - 356

11-0

- юст 30-19641

SI-7P (S

DAT 7/23/107

2 1 19412 6E

Massinea

EB I VilE beciassily on CAbl

HOA

3 35 bM.e

15 33

/ JFK Special

Classified by

category ln

Exempt from

Date of Declassifica

on indetaile

BECEINE

MARCURYAAE

O ALEINED

Fearety

21/11

L

HH 50953

DocId: 32156250

Page 2

---

## Page 3

EGRET®

(5)

CAS -2290 XX

20 October 1954

CIA HAS NO ORISCTION TO

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Norman Philcox

DECLAS

41.

Legal Attache

RELEASE IT

FROM

[CAS 976)

IN THIS DẦY ENGE

SUBJECT

Crank Letter Concerning warren

Commissiur

Document

Madridi

Our office in Madridhas sent us a copy of the attached

* Spanish-language letter addressed up/ the American Ambassador.

3/0/97

France

Spain

to 1mpart.

After opening the second paragraph by saying that he

had to flee Paris due to an indiscretion committed there, the

• author states:

"There (apparently Paris),

in the home ci

some American

friends, I got hold of an authen-

•tic document about une assassination in Dallas,

which they say was swiped from the warren

Commission and which is certainly prejudicial

for President Johnson.

I have it on good

authority that they are currently trying to sell

• to no less than

the Director of "Parig-Match.

Someone from the Embassy of the United Kingdom

In Paris is involved in the

matter.

The author closes by suggesting that an advertisement be inserted

In a Madrid newspaper if there be any interest in further detalls

There are no traces from Madrid on Antinum PERIS, which

according tolCAS, Madrid, 1s almost certalhly an allas.

Needless [s]

to say there Is no return

which

was mailed from Barceiona on 26 September 1964 LCAS, Madrid has §)

forwarded us a copy of the letter on the off chance that we may

have received similar allegations;

in such case Madrid would. ES

appreciate learning the details so that they might iniorm the

Embasey. It was also suggested that we show you this, torter ind

[CAS, Paris

has no traces on Antilin PERIS

oc: United States Secret Service

Attn: Mr. John Hanly

42-1090 61354

Martet one

SEGRE

T.,

HH

50953

DocId:32156250

Page

3

---

