# 124-10203-10294

## Page 1

Date :

Page

04/30/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10203-10294

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-2713-1ST NR 516

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : HAHN, DELBERT W.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

: 04/18/69

: 20

: CM, ASSOC, INTV, MITCHELL, DAVID LYNN, RING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4, REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO USCG

125 Release under the President John F. Kenne

cassination Records Collection Act of 199

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL E "JREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

"NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

DAVID LYNN MITCHELL, aka

Theft of

$54, 170.00

in Jewelry,

8/16/67.

West Hollywood, California;

ADDIE KATHERINE EARLE

VICTIM;

MARGARET ELAINE ADAMS, aKa;

ANTHONY ROSSI. aka

Tony Rossi,

A. Rossie,

Ovidio Limone,

Tony Lawont,

Tony Lamonte =

FUGITIVE

DATE

4/18/69

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/5/68 - 4/11/69

REPORT MADE BY

SA DELBERT W. HAHN

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITSP - MT;

ITSP - RECEIVING AND CONCEALING;

UFAP - BURGLARY AND GRAND THEFT;

HARBORING

TYPED BY

-kbz

P.

REFERENCES:

CONVIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

New Orleans report of SA DELBERT W. HAHN, 12/2/68.

Mobile airtel to New Orleans, 1/13/69.

Sacramento report of SA DONALD H. MOE, 1/29/69.

Tampa report of SA DAVID P. GRIMES, 1/31/69.

Mobile letter to Tampa; 2,3/69.

New Oreans airtel to Sacramento, 2/11/69.

New York letter to Tampa, 2/18/69.

(References continued Cover Page B)

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

[X] NONE

ACQUIT-

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EXIYES ONO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

[XYES DINO

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92.2713=

Nor

168 APR 22 1969

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

- Bureau

(1 - 87-92096)

3 = 92-2713)

1 - USA, New Or leans

1 - Departmental Attorney, OWEN NEFF,

New Orleans

1 - Atlanta (87 14204) (Info.)

(Copies Made continued Cover Page B)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

COVER PAGE

55 MAY 1 3 1969

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 2

Notations

---

## Page 3

NO 87=14835

COPIES MADE (CONTINUED):

2 - Houston

3 = LOS Angeles

(2 - 87-26930)

(1 = USA, LOS-Angeles)

1

• San Francisco

(Info.).

2

•Tampa

(1 88-4851)

Tampa)

1 •NIO (87-16906) (1010.

5

• New Orleans

(2 - 8714835)

92-36

92-801

92-841

*

REFERENCES (CONTINUED):

Hono lulu

teletype to New Orleans, 2/26/69.

New Orleans airtel to wro, 2127/69.

Sacramento airtel to Tampa,

2/27/69.

New Orleans airtel to Bureau, 3/12/69.

New

Or leans

airied

to Boston,

3/20/69.

BOSton

letter to New Orleans,

3/25/69.

Tampa letter to New Orleans, 3/28/69.

New

York

letter to

New Orleans

New Orleans, 4/3/69.

airted

to Atlanta,

414/69.

Sacramento letter to Tampa, 4/8/69.

Tanpa

letter

to

Director, 417/69.

Tampa report o1 SA DAVID

P. GRIMES,

4/8/69.

New

Orleans airtel

to Tampa, 4/9/69.

-B=

COVEF. PAGE

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 87=14835

INFORMANTS:

PCI ANTHONY

SAM SERIO advised on 3/29/69,

that he was

in the Bun Restaurant on 3/27/69,

and overheard RossI's former

partner in

conversation

an unknown person stated that RoSSI

was

1n

San

Francisco, Calit.

LEADS:

LOS ANGELES

AT WEST

HOLLYWOOD,

statements, says

CALIFORNIA.

MITCHELL, in signed

he

sold an

emerald ring to New Orleans top

hoodlum and LCN

member,

CARLOS MARCELLO.

Ring was described

by MITCHELL as "emerald ring set in platinum with twenty-two

diamond baguettes

surrounding

the center

emerald and about

twenty-two diamond "stars" or "tips" in a second circle around

the other diamonds..

This

is believed to

be Item #7 on the

inventory letter dated 5/25/65.

Reintervie: ADDIE

KATHERINE EARLE and determine which

item

this

ring

could be and obtain from her a photograph of

the ring,

i available, or a reasonably accurate sketch of the

ring.

Please

expedite.

HOUSTON

AT GALVESTON,

TEXAS.

MITCHELL States

stolen jewelry

given to one FRANK WALLS

to hold... MALLs employed at Canal

Jewelry.

MITCHELL ClAINS VALLS dated his

mothers

BETTY MITCHELL

(deceased),.in.

1951,

when they lived

in Galveston.

They lived

an apartment

adjacent

to a beauty shop.

The owner of the

beauty

shop lived

a par thent

above

the beauty shop.

The

shop

is

located

! "North

and

adjacent to the sears

Roebuck

parking lot."

WALLS

allegedly operated a "club" in Galveston.

The owner of the

beauty shop knew

his mother and WALLS.

COVER PAGE

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 4

---

## Page 5

vi

NO 87-14835

LEADS (CONTINUED) :

Houston

1s requested to attempt to locate and

identify the beauty

shop

owner

and

interview her in an effort

to verify MIrCHELL's statement and identify

FRAnK WALLS.

Houstor will also conduct credit, criminal,

and

other

logical checks to

IdentifY FRANK WALLS.

Expeditious handling is requested.

NEN ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS

developed

to

• locate and ả

LOUISIANA.

will set out leads as

arrest ANTHONY ROSSI.

WiLL

• confer with AUSA and Departmental Attorney re

prosecution oi ROSSi; possible appearance of DAVID LYNN MITCHELL

before Federal Grand

Jury at New Orleans; and attempt to develop

prosecutable ITSP-RECEIVING violation re

CARLOS MARCELLO.

will concine investigation at Canal Jewelry to

identify FRANK WALLS.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

No report submitted prior to this time as no

information of prosecutive

value obtained that was not already

known by AUSA, New Orleans.

Investigation as

to present where-

abouts of ANTHONY ROSSi and

subsequent leads were set out in

referenced communications as developed.

Information copies are furnished to those offices

having outstanding investigation, and or prosecution pending

or anticipated.

Copies of this report are furnished to the Bureau

for Bufile 92-2713, CARIO MARCHILO - AR, inasmuch as MITCHELL

states he sold

one of the stolen rings to

MARCELLO

and has

furnished signed

statements to

that effect. Copy of report

also disseminated

Departmental Attorney, OWEN

NEFF, New

orleans.

COVER PAGE

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 5

---

## Page 6

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITE STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Tifle:

Character:

Synopsis:

1 = U.S. Attorney, New Orleans, Louisiana

1 = Departmental Attorney, OWEN

NEFF, New Orleans,

Louisiana

I =U.

S. Attorney, los Angeles, California

1 =U.

S. Attorney, Tampa, Florida

SA DELBERT W. HAHN

Office: NEW ORLEANS

4/18/69

NO 87-14835

Bureau File #: 87-92096

DAVID LYNN MITCHELL,

Theft of $54,170.00

in Jewelry, August 16, 1967,

West Hollywood, California;

ADDIE KATHERINE EARLE - VICTIM;

MARGARET ELAINE ADAMS;

ANTHONY ROSSI

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY

MAJOR THEFT;

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY =

RECEIVING AND CONCEALING;

UNLAWFUL FLIGHT TO AVOID PROSECUTION -

BURGLARY AND GRAND THEET;

HARBORING

ROSSI,

aS OVIDIO LIMONE, Obtained Coast Guard

z card

#1281740, 7/31/68, at New Orleans.

ROSSI

cancelled insurance on Cadillac and by letter

requested premium refund be forwarded to New York

address.

FBI Lab identified handwriting of hotel

safe deposit box receipt as that of ANTHONY ROSSI.

DAVID LYNN MITCHELL identified photo of CARLOS

MARCELLO and furrished signed statement that he

sold emerald ring

to MARCELLO in Canal Jewelry

Store for $3, 000.

ROSSI HAS PRIOR ARREST FOR

ASSAULT AND ROBBERY AND SHOULD BE APPROACHED

CAUTIOUSLY

DETAILS:

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NO 87-14835

December B,

1968, ELIZABETH MILLER, Principal,

peters Junior High, advised that DEBBIE PORTER ROSSI waS

eighth grade student,

but has been

absent since November 18,

1968.

No request for forwarding of her school records has

been received.

School records reflect her mother to be BARBARA

ANNE PORTER ROSSI and

her father

to be ANTHONY ROSSI. She

transferred from Sugar.

Hill School, Buford, Georgia.

On December 10, 1968,

appropriate officials at the

following hotels were contacted and ald advised that

there

were no unclaimed safe deposit box contents:

ROYAL ORLEANS HOTEL

JUNG HOTEL

ROOSEVELT HOTEL

BOURBON ORLEANS HOTEL

SHERATON-DELTA HOTEL

MONTELEONE HOTEL

SHERATON CHARLES HOTEL

On January 6, 1969,

Mrs.

MARGAURITE BAHM, Personnel

Manager,

Marsh-McClennan Insurance Company, 225 Baronne,

advised

that BARBARA ANNE. PORTER ROSSI worked for her company

until November 18,..

1968, at which

time

she obtained her pay

check, said

she was sick,

and

would be under a doctor's

care

until

such time as she was able to return to

work.

Her Social

Security Number 1s.

257-46-1088, and her date of birth is

January 25, 1938.

Her father is Reverend PORTER, Buford,

Georgia, telephone.

945-7031.

17o2 7,

Her daughter is DEBORA ANN PORTER

ROSSI, date of birth March 17,. 1956, father ANTHONY ROSSI.

on

January

18, 1969,

MrS. BAHM

advised she had

received

a letter from ROSSI,

stating that he had

just

sold a

Cadillac

on which her

company has the policy and requesting

that

the refund be mailed

10 NIS. CAROL POLIZZI, 9511 Shore

Road, Brooklyn,

New

YOrk.

- 200

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NO 87-14835

Credit Bureau records

made

available by LANCE

GARCIA,

January 11, 1969, reflect that ANTHONY ROSSI is

married

to BARBARA

and is employed

at Rubensteins Clothing

store.

On January 16, 1969, Lieutenant Commander, R. G.

United States Coast Guard,

Senior Inspector, made

arailable Untted states Coast Guard form CO 8193, which reflects

that OVIDIO LIMONE,

also known as ToNy roSsI, applied for

seaman's papers and submitted

a letter of intent to employ from

Waterman Steamship Company.

On January 17, 1969, LOUIS S. O'NEIL, Waterman

Steamship Company, advised his records reflect

that his office

was requested

to write a letter of intent by BOB LUNA of New

Orleans Shipping Company.

D'NEIL stated he wrote the letter,

although there

was no intention. to employ RoSSI and that

such is a common practice in the industry.

on January 17,

He advised that SALVADORE ESCOTO, who resides

at 1012 Esplanade, and is a merchant seaman he

- 969 OR ADDRE

1969, BOB LUNA, IR., 2609 Veronica

Drive, was interviewed at New Orleans Shipping Company, 436

Camp Street.

went to school

with,

asked him to have a letter of intent written for a

friend of his, ANTHONY ROSSI.

LUNA stated he went to Waterman

steamship, who at his request wrote the letter.

He delivered

the letter to ESCOTO in front of the Bun Restaurant. ESCOTO

was with another unknown male in sunglasses who upon receipt

of the letter, gave him a fifth of whiskey..

ANTHONY ROSSI

was exhibited, but LUNA was not able to identify

I to

LUNA stated ke does not know RossI personally and did it

as a lavor for Escoto to promote

business.

On january 18,

Esplanade,

1969,

MrS. SALVADOR ESCOTO, 1012

advised her husband

is presently in Japan, on

the "SS GREEN LAKE."

she knows he took ROSsI to get seaman's

papers.

but he is just an acquaintance and she has no

information

to his

present whereabouts.

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NO 8714835

On February 14, 1969, 1t was

determined that ANTHONY

ROSSI's telephone number

former at 119 South Claiborne, was

transferred to 8917 Apple Avenue.

Attempts to contact the resident at 8917 Apple

Avenue were

negative on February 27, 1969, and March 5, 1969.

The following investigation was conducted by

SA DELBERT W. HAHN and SA ANDRE N. FORTIER, On March 25, 1969,

at New Orleans, Louisiana:

ANN OLE, 8917 Apple Avenue, advised she is the step

daughter of NINg NOLTE.

Her mother

had ANTHONY ROSSI'S

telephone transferred to the OlE residence in order to avoid

$25.00 deposit.

She knows RosSI only as the business

partner in the Bus Restaurant with her step-father.

not seen RossI and has no knowledge of his present whereabouts.

She has nothing to do with her step-father and he has nothing

to do with her; they do not get along.

a lot got long his area ga nota.

An attempt

was made to contact NIND NOLFE at 8908

Nelson Avenue.

ESSIE MAE GUILLOUT,

2909 Millow Street,

telephone number Tw. 1-7914, was at the residence and advised

she is the maid.

She does not know RossI and his photograph

was not familiar to her.

* *

On April 11,

1969, SALVADORE ESCOTO advised he had

met rossI by freguenting the Bun Restaurant, which ROSSI

apparently owned.

was

On one occasion, Rossi asked him to help nim get

seaman's papers as he desired to go to sea. ESCOTO stated

he then

asked his friend,

BOB LUNA,

to get a letter of intent

fOr ROSSI:

The letter was. obtained

and

ESCOTO gave it to

ROSSI at the Bun. ROSSI never told him

that he had obtained

a Job and never mentioned that he would be taking a trip.

Escorosstated he knew nothing about ROSSI's personal life and

only knew him by contacting him at the Bun

Restaurant when

he weht there

she agre

to

eat or drink coffee.

== 1 -

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NO 88-14835

AT DENVER, COLORADO

The following investigation was conducted by

SA LEROY N. GREEN:

Mr .

BUEL O'LOUGHLIN, Identification Division, Denver,

Colorado Police Department, advised on December 17, 1968,

that he was unable

to locate any record identifiable with

ANTHONY ROSSI, either under his

true name or known aliases.

Mrs. GRACE NICHOLS, Master Files Section, Colorado

Department of Motor vehicles, Denver, advised on January 3,

1969,

that she was unable to

locate any driver's license

for ANTHONY ROSSI, either under his true name or known

aliases.

AT NEW YORK,

NEW YORK

The New York

Division advised by communication dated

February 18, 1963,

that on January 30, 1969, Mr. and Mrs.

CHARLES POLIZZI, 5911 Shore Road, Brooklyn, New York, advised

SA PAUL E MARUM

and SA MARIO SIMEONE,

aR., that ANThONY ROSSI

is the half brother of Mr.. POLIZZI'S

late mother. Mr. POLIZZI

stated

that the tirst time he ever saw ANTHONY ROSSI was four

years

ago when RosSI came to New York, to attend POLIZZI'S

mother's funeral.

POLiZZI stated

that he never heard from

ROSSI again until the afternoon of January 20, 1969, when he

received a telephone call at his home from Rossi who stated

that he was in New York, about to leave on a trip for Europe,

and would like to see him

Mr. POLIZZI stated that January 20

the day of the superbowl footbald Game and he did not

wish

to travel into Manhattan that afternoon and miss

the bald

game.

Mrs. CAROL POLIZZI advised that she had never met

ROSSI, but spoke to

bin on this occasion

at which time she

recalled that ROSSI

asked her where

she

was employed.

Mrs.

poLIZzI stated that she informed him that she was employed

as a secretary

in Manhattan, and gave him the address

where

she worked.

ROSSI informed her that he would appreciate it

it she could do some typing for him

the

following day and

she agreed to do

sO.

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 10

---

## Page 11

NO 87-14835

Mrs. POLIZZI stated that the following day, ROSSI

came

to her office, asked her to Xerox a bill of sale and

dictated to her a letter to his insurance company in which

he requested a refund of his automobile insurance premium due

to the fact that he had sold his automobile.

Mr. POLIZZI stated that later on that day, he, kis

wife, and ROSSI met at a coffee shop at Seventh Avenue,

and 54th street, in Manhattan,

and had dinner.

At this time

ROSSI stated that he was planning to take a trip to Europe,

within the next few days,

and requested that refund on his

automobile insurance be placed in the POLIZZI's bank account

until such time as he could contact them for it.

Mr. POLIZZI stated that

after having had dinner with

ROSSI on that occasion, he has not seen or heard from him

since.

Mr. and Mrs. POLIZZI were informed of subject's

fugitive status and

the provisions of the Harboring Statute.

Mr .

poLizzI stated that he was in his third year at City

College of New York, studying architecture and works at two

jobs in order to attend school and stated that due to this

and in view of the fact that he has only seen ROSSI twice in

his entire life, he would not do anything to jeopardize his

future and would contact the FBI at once if he heard from

ROSSI in the future.

On January 23, 1969, AL KERR, Secretary and

Treasurer, Seaman's International Union, New York,

advised

SA DAVID G. JENKINS that be could find no records in the

files of that union for ANTHONY ROSSI Or OVIDIOLIMONI.

On February 4, 1969, EILEEN BROWN, Dispatcher's

Office, National Maritime Union, 36 ith Avenue, New York,

advised SA JENKINS that she could find no record in the

files of

that union for ANTHONY ROSSI Of OVIDIOLIMON

On April 3, 1969,

the New York Division advised

that on March 12, 1969, Detective JOHN LOCKMAN, Recovered

Property Section, New

York city Police Department,

advised

that his department submitted

an inquiry on VIN E6142738

-6-

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 11

---

## Page 12

NO 87-14835

as a result of

a notice received from the Embassy Auto Sales,

1721 Broadway, New York,

that this automobile had

been

purchased.

On March 13, 1969, HARRY BAKER, Manager, Embassy

Auto Sales,

advised that his records reflect that on January

13, 1969, he purchased a 1966 Cadillac EL Dorado, VIN E6142738,

from ANTHONY and BARBARA A. ROSSI, 199 South Claiborne Avenue,

New Orleans, Louisiana.

A photograph of ANTHONY and BARBARA ROSSI was

displayed to BAKER and he identified the individuals in the

photograph as the persons from whom he purchased the Cadillac.

BAKER stated

ROSSI, at

the time of the sale, was accompanied

by a white male about thirty years of age,

dark hair and

clean-shaven.

BAKER was informed of ROSSI's fugitive status

and he agreed to notify the New York Officin the event he

was recontacted by RoSSI.

On March 19, 1969,

CHARLES

POLIZZI, 5911 Shore

Road, Brooklyn, New York, advised that he has not heard from

RoSSI since initially contacted by the fBl.

He again indicated

his willingness to notify the FBI in the event that he obtained

information concerning RoSSIs whereabouts.

POLIZZI stated

he could furnish no information as

to the individual who

accompanied ROSSI at the time of the sale of his Cadillac

at Embassy Auto Sales.

It is noted that CHARLES POLIZZI wears a full beard.

AT 3031012

MASSACHUSETTS.

By communication dated January 28, 1969, the Boston

Division

advised

that on January 27, 1969, Mrs. MARIE MEROLA,

Secretary of State's Office, Providence, Rhode Island,

advised

the records reflect that crown

Import Corporation, 6712

broadway,

Providence, Phode Island, was incorporated on

January

18,. 1968

The

incorporators were JOAN SHEPLEY of 9

Almy Street, Providence, Rhode Island, GLORIA COLELLA,

42

paolino Street, Johnston, Rhode Island, and SYDNEY KRAMAR

of 86 Farragut Avenue, Providence, Rhode Island. There were

no officers

listed for this company:

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 12

---

## Page 13

NO 87-14835

On January 27, 1969, the records of the Providence,

Rhode Island Police Department, Identification Division,

reflected that ANGELO PALMISANO, date of birth December

9, 1915,

FBI Number 2477651, - was arrested on March 22, 1937, for assault

and was sentenced to three months unappealed. Discontinued on"

January 16, 1946, with payment of cost.

He was arrested on

April 14,

1939, for operating a motor vehicle without a license

fined $5.00 and

He was further arrested on May 29,

1955, for gambling with dice on Sunday, Fined $5.00 and costs.

On January 27, 1969, Captain JOHN EDDY, Providence,

Rhode Island Police

Department, Detective Division, advised

that the Crown Import Corporation at 6712 Broadway, is

probably identical with the company which formerly occupied

667 Broadway, known as the Capital Manufacturing Company.

He stated this company went out of business approximately one

year ago and was formerly the company that dealt with "Gaffer"

watches, which are cheap, inexpensive Swiss-made watches,

bearing names similar to

those of well-known watches.

He stated in one instance, watches were sold which

bore the

name Homilton and were confused by unknowing

individuals witn Hamilton watches.

He stated this company was never known to deal in

any stolen jewelry or other type of merchandise and dealt

primarily with the "Gaffer" watches.

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 13

---

## Page 14

FOU? (Rev. 4-15-00)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVISTICATON

Dote.

3/30/62

Goe

90ca0n Cuntos,

acatina, Cretartse

HIS SURE 1040

he served Lice

too one so crocuted Meaning and Valves

101301 me bold tut that suescrew wie don the

accarpenna

Anex as

Pa: at and to whos be lisa previous trudeatod

Hots:

Saplesion:

Age:

1000) 300% 2523520

10uA 2:

Rosalt:

2120. 0 a

Kota

Dische coording of Soaptoes

1 adit as

Pena pocates

PAve Goos Clotma to 2e Lost

J4S pounde

side chitt bo costa sad furthor daccatbos

sented that he

226 1082

Gau

vích sure in the otto:

Has 02322142

that Want hold sita Coed Jevalry and Loan, but Chas

he lad

2/23/39

J12208

: 206644 Me 100 &

21 27D L. N04/116

Cos fosas

-File*

274124

3/6/69

by.

a. Date diciated..

This documeni coniains saither recommendctions nor conclusions of ine F8l. l is the property of the F8l and is leaned to your ogenty:

il and its contonis are not io be distributed outside your agency.

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 14

---

## Page 15

2

SO 875174

ho notsoed the follering descetbad enployecs la the storie

2o A young nas the worked bohind the tuare

cage?

thare mechandise vas paunode dis foste

Aight colored Anize 01c-20%54

2e à coman in her so does mita grayich bacch

hair tho voshod bilad the canniorts desta

3. A Salesaang

very short, about tave fect

Sive Lnches wich a anacochea

Be esuld Duanial no additional daceciptive dota

conceraine the shove individole advising that he oody sau

then In the stoce and did nac balt to there

rolaus statod that che sato in chick the jewciry

was Piecad by Was wan a Jorge, double dooled safe loented

In the office of Cated, develay and Loat. De ndvised Chat

tha office was locatod at the hoax of the stones that upos

artering the stores you walk storiche back, up tro on three

osalre and turn alphe to cuter the office.

rarchli scated that kalas vont wich has mocher

DuTTY LanCHalle 1a abou: 1931 or 1952, Shen M13 Chali Res

six on severi yoOre

• об 0804

Cloc; ba and his sochor vore living in on apactume An

Colvaston, Jesus, adjacent tQ

beauty

Jac Ounaze

operator of the beauty poxfor

tact.ded

was tante leadiady e

Dide

apartnent and beauty pardos se etill

In endotendo so. 08

oi abase ono pane puse 20g best owned ond

operated by the

at not docated dinectly Maste

and ndjadoet

C8

a Joano Roctoch & Cospaty portalng

Rota

tha packing dot de

10

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 15

---

## Page 16

c 87-276

Joosted dicocely Roet, ená adjeceot to the sonce Rosburls a

Congany

SCoote

cloro felood of sho polar of MIGht and vas acquadated

Mnext cold Corlet so Andormation about Die

pons er loention ef the clus allegedly operatod y fals

in Galvestoo at Chat Einca

MODiLL statod he se concate thot the nano usod

by WALLs In Calvoston wor FA/ll WAs since he cocogaland

chás sane won he sat Was in Now Oslonus; Choreafter, ho

asked Vito de be zaa tue sumo Wlbe that had gone wash

WALLS stalened that Do tore

NW 78318

Docld:34489342

Page 16

---

## Page 17

: FD-302 (Roy, 4-15-li)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

2/30/69

Date_

IVED LANE MITO ma Intervieved at the macia

Conservation Centers

120n08040, C023a0c2t9

Hand of 240 CaRA

Merelize botand s

#2cbrrar 20, 3903

Matessa Causewasion Gantex

*1/0000000324

Cuts founs

dug voluntary

22GUbh a

tho

Specto

His si

DAVID 1.2213

Arrish car foldon*

XMML9 # 208 2000

2.728

Mate

Stencifice themselves

429

Messeso of

Investigar

Jamie

boad nu thus

Lie damsey

8014008

1233s

2010*

been tales

Inos this

6A216€

exhibited

Jewelay bed

pseviously

AADZA. BUDS 3121S

1400

Miterzat

200 г

12:00.

22010 44

Scaper,

1.

Motograph

watch y

A deechlos

ME B

photograph

od

2C20819/086

16NG

Cadet Mas

Has be tho

person. to toon

2030

110G

Mode in cho often of the Caud

Josely and done Congray

in her Crientry Journed

NOnde outson we Located at tho asar of

the Conse deniry nad 1002

стирлад

he vieved fros toe chore.

Scoal A*

The offles done

colnod a larade double desced satay a docke dex enc

To sole elenance to the 062100

So. Not: 2uor

at too utored

On 2/23210

A2-124

by 113306-

200N2/302

_ Date dictated...

3/0/69

This document contoins neither recommeridations nor conclusions ei the FEl. li is the proporty of lhs 50l and la looned le your agoncy:

ll and its coniento are nor to be disiributed outside your agency.

12

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 17

---

## Page 18

56 07-174

Mi have Idenciatod the photograph of enos

MeGade by waiting on tho rovoras of the pbotographe

Egrang ky names

v2 bave rest Exe above tuo pege etacencute

Ae de Lous and correcte

M1DRSS0:

* 2/28/59

rapestova, Calle

spectal agent: 121- 2/20/02.

special agent, Dale Mentie

The folioving descalbed photographe nece erdáss cod

CARLOS MARCALLO

2e CHARLES DAVID ST002MAN, Federel, Buread of

Invosticules Nabos 292-459-22

Bureau of

Iavebtigation Munbes: 206×933-04

Laveotagation Husbas 4-070-093e

Investlascion Maber 2250076-02

13

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 18

---

## Page 19

PRESSURY BOPARIENT

C. S. COACT GUARD

CG-710G (Rex. 15-60) 6:

BOOK.

10.

STAN'S CERTIFICATE APPLICATIO.

TO: COMMANDANT COYP-1

TYPECT

GERTIFICATE (Check One):

PORT OF

24941

22102200

CHECK ONE:

ORIGINA

SUPPLEMEN

CONTINUOUS DISCHARGE BOOK

TRUE MENCHANT MARINER'S COCUMENT

DATE

22 June 1963

ENDORSED "S

the Read

PRNT (lost, first and middle)

NAME OF APPLICANT

220005,

ADDRESS OF APPLICANT

219 Goa

Gladbone Su,:

DATE OF

BiRTh(Doy,

month and year)

16 Mogist 1926

HEIST

5-u9

20222 | SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

$715

20r:

vil ands 230-34x1962

PLACE OF BIRTH (City, sidle und country)

Few Joult, ko: York

COMPLEXION

сособ Обнії

Hecoy

1703

COLOR OF EVES

23C12

NAME

OF NEXT OF

Kin

6a20:20

Rossi

RELATIONSHIP

ide

ADORESS OF NEXTOR KIN

came

abore.

CITIZENSMIP OR RATIONALITY RECORD

DATE NATURALIZED

COURT OF NATURALIZATION

CITY

STATE

IF NATURALIZED THROUGH FATHER, STATE HIS NAME

To 2 20 6006.

CITIZENSHIP (deserbe,

4OOR6 201001 Am22-1Cs

IF NO: NATURALIZED: iS DECLARATION OF INTENTION FILED? (11 80, sidle place, dato and file nunder of intention paper:)

IF ALIEN, DESCRIDE PROCE OF ATIONALITY

iF ResicaNT

ALIEN, STATE 2200F

PRESENTEO ANO RECISTRATION NO.

NARCOTIC RECORD (1 ony)

¡lave you ever been convicted of violation of the narcotic drag laws of the United States, ine District of Columbia, o:

any State or Tentiory of the United States? ME No

Ca xes.

If «Yes," state place, date, and particulars of eaca conviction.

Have you ever used or been addioted to the use of marcuties?

particulars of use or addiction.

= Yes, If "Xes,* state place, dato, and!

0.2.4 R622

LICENSE OR CERTINION

ECORD

(itemize all liconces or contileates nurin yourpossession) 0V

DESCRIPTION OF PAPERS

PLACE OFISSUE

DATE OF YOSUE

NO. OF IS208

IF ANY LICENSE OF CERTIFICATE HELO BY YOU HAS EVER AREN REVOKED OR SUSPENDED, SO STATE, GIVING ALL THE

CIRCUMSTANCES.

RECORD OF QUALIFYNG SERVICE

(1. Muss be certified oj official discharges or taturi from mosiors or such other authority deenied rollabie.

2. Additional service may be lored on blank cheet and attached to this loma)

HAME OF VESSEL

NATIONALITY

SERVICE

CROss

TONNACE

RATING OF

SEAMAN

DATE OF

SHIPMENT

wetter of contio

101

employeede

de.

DATE OF

DISCHARGE

14

EOITION OF S-SU MAY DE USED

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Docld:34489342

Page 20

NW

10118

I ereby certify that ell the staremonts ou this applicatih are leue and dontect to the best of my knowledge and beliel; thet 1 have never roceived from the Unitad Steles

Gorerument the documeni(e) for which i now moke epplication; that l have not applied for and been refused the rating(s) requested in this application within the past 30 days;

and la: no desumestl or edoremen (e) ou such documents) previouss sage gle (ore) curently revolod, suspended, or under voluntary surrender.

Signature of scam

Alridi

Pisano (lila Chitte

have occordingly fello documen Slist below thts

33.

day of

Joly

68

MON ORT EAND, TA.

Siprature md title of iscuing alices

OATH (ro ho ddninisiored by issuing officor so appticanes for documents) in ratinds otice tan able Scanon or P. M. 2. D.)

I hereby swear for atlimy waty Wit faithfully and honestly pertorm all the dutios required of me by

law and cury out the lewint orders of my superior officers on shippocrd.

Signature of scamon

Subscribed and sworn to (or affirmed) before me this

.....day of

Cleans

., State ('Territory

or District; ol

Sill

112

Signature und title of issuing officer

U.S. PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE

Ovidio Limono (alias Arbhono

Roost)

and have found him

compoten

incompetent

Surgeon, U. S. Public Health Service .

FINGEAPRINTS - RIGHT HAND (roiled impressiona)

(in croor to make a propor soiled impression, it is noceanary tout linders bo rolled front nil to noi?

Chests

1. THUND

2. INDEX

3. MIDDLE

r. RING

5. LITTLE

5

I have this doy examined the physical condition ...

for the rating of

222. (Pio)

CERTIFICATE ISSUED

(applicant will not write in this space)

CONTINUOUS DISCHARGE BOOK NUMBER

2. U.S. MERCHANT MARINER'S DOCUMENT NO. 201202740

ENDORSED AS:

(a) CERTIFICATE OF EFFICIENCY AS LIFEDOAT MAN

(L) CERTIFICATE AS TANKERMAN

(= CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE AS ABLE SEAMAN

FOR THE WATERS OF

(L) CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE AS QM.E.D.

1 CEATIMICATE OF SERVICE AS

SEAMAN, JEDDA, COBIARDES DERANCOMENSE TERRE

M1ADEI

5. THUMB

FINGERPRINTS. LEFT HAND (solled imprescions)

7. INDEX

8. MiDDLE

9. RING

10. LITTLE

C2O 406-727

---

## Page 21

NS JUN 1968

WATERMAN

CORE ORATIONI

BRANCH OFFICES

MOBILE

LO'S ANGELES

CABLE ADDRESS "WACOR"

GENERAL OFFICES

NEW YORK, N Y. U.S. A.

708 RICHARDS BUILDING

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA 70112

May 22, 1958

ERANCH OFFICES

NEW ORLEANS SAN FRANCISCO

WASHINGTON

22-

United States Coast Guard

201 Cateway Building

124 Camp Street

New Orleans, Louisiana

Dear. Sir:

Ovidio Demine

This will

introduce ix, Anthony Rossi, whon we wish to employ aboard

OUT

vessels.

Please insue him seaman papers with Ordinary Seaman, Wiper and

Messman'

endorsements.

Yours very truly:

NAT BB

MAN STEAMSIUP CORPORATION

LSO'N/jbj

167

NW 78318

Docld:34489342 Page 21

---

