# 124-90137-10468

## Page 1

124-90137-10468

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90137-10468

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NY

TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

WH 50953

DocId: 32337702 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

pich

james

277731

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

THE DUUL 1I

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

6-30-61

5668 S20/GCL

026/98 - 55к)

7-20-98

AIRTZI

CLASCTED BY 5668 SLDIKSR

GEC..SOIFY Did: 25X_

(JFK)

TO:

12/16/53

SAC, New York

(237-5609) €)

From:

Director,

FBI

Declassin

INY 3186-B5IC)

(205-394528 s

Classifiet el 980320D/sel

REC- 85

ClA, by Liaison, advised Bureau of desire to

contact captionedlPSI in connection with its cuban operations (C.

CIA of opinion PSIl is in position to assist in the d

establishment of courier routes between U.S. and its

contacts in Cubabe Contact of PSIlby CIA being held in C)

abeyance pending Bureau's approval.

sureau's position in this matter flexiole.

Ve can refuse CIA authority to contact (psIlor we can let"

ClA operatelestion its owno

We can also serve as intere

mentary between the Piland In.

Promptly contact PSI and discreetly ascertain

if he is in position and willing to assist in establishing

courier routes. Do not adviseStJof CIA's connection at (C)

his time. for information; ClA believes Estable toc

establish such a systembecause of his employment witr

Cuband Airlines in New Tort City, and fact he is in contact

with persons regularly traveling

to Cuba. Furnish Bureau

results of your contact with PsIc in event leslis in positione

co assist in the establishment or

a courier system and

г6Itт to d00 10nd union your beeryutione

concerning

this matter.

MS NE DECORATO

The te: 106!

MAYOR.

RELEASE OF GIAMINFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT

PSIfis Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at BRACkt)S'IN'l'S

Idlewild

Airport In New York City,

development by New York Office since November,

Nove mere note)

ly AND

and has furnished data concerning operations of cubara

Airlines and personnel employed by cubana.

In additions

60-14-98.

JFK)

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE ON PAGE TIO

171745

MAIL ROOM

I TELETYPE UNIT

SECTS

NH 50953 DocId:32337702 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re:

TO SAC,

NY 3186-PS

VOrk

CONTINUANCE DE NOTE:

1. it 20

c)

Lhe has made auxilable copies of incoming and outgoing

New Lork and ravand

new test to conne ma to not ferntshed date

of unusualsvalue; but because

or his position, has a goodl

potentialas CIA advised Liaison Agent Papich it would not

Bureauo

tre allowing CIA to make contact with (SI, it<

is belleved it would be best for our interests to determine

se actually asia then to net in sition to le

that Agency,

will then consider wat stand to

take in this matter.

POTENENTIAL

HW 50953

DooId: 32337702

Page 3

---

