# 124-10203-10292

## Page 1

Date

Page

04/30/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10203-10292

RECORDS SERIES

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-2713-515

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC, NO

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE

12/16/68

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : CM, ASSOC, TRA, ATTORNEY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Helease under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Recode Collechon ect ot 1992

NW 78318

Docld:34489341 Page 1

---

## Page 2

12-84)

Transmit the following in

Via_TELETYPE

FBI

Date: 12-16-68

PIAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext'or code)

URGENT'

(Priority)

-Nue 1400

TO: HOUSTON AND DIRECTOR (AIRMAIL.)

FROM: NEW ORLEANS (92-36)

CARLOS MARCELLO; AR

MEM

V uRs

NO ONE SEVEN THREE FOUR DASH PC, THIS DATE ADVISED SUBJECT.

BEING DRIVEN BY SAL BOEMIA TO BAY CITY, TEXAS IN SUBJECT'S

BIACK LINCOIN CONTINENTAL, LOUISIANA LICENSE NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT

DASH SIXTYNINE THROE TWO ZERO B EIGHT SEVEN ONE.

SUBJECT TO PICK UP. "PICOU", LAFAYETTE, LOUISIANA ASSOCIATE

OF THE SUBJECT. SUBJECT TRANSPORTING TRANSCRIPT OF HIS TRIAL

AT IAREDO, TEXAS AND TO MEET WITH DOCTOR FRANK RAGANO, ATORNEY

FOR LON BOSS SANTO TRAFFICANTE OF TAMPA, FLA.

SOURCE ALSO ADVISED GUISEPPE GAGLIANO, FORMER UNDER BOSS

LON IN NEW ORLEANS TO BE IN ATTENDANCE, PURPOSE OF MSETING

UNKNOWN TO SOURCE AND SUBJECT TO RETURN ON WEDNESDAY TWELVE

EIGHTEEN SIXTYEIGHT.

X-113

92-2713

515

REC 4

HOUSTON, AT BAY CITY, TEXAS:

4: JAN 2 1968

CONTACT APPROPRIATE SOURCES AND ANY OTHER INYESTGATION

DEEMED APPROPRIATE TO DETERMINE SUBJECT'S PRESENCE AND LOCATION

OF MEETING IN BAY CITY, TEXAS,

ENE PAGE NEIT

1)

- BUREAU

.1 - TAMPA

Sproved:

1 - NEW ORLEANS

Sent

M

Per

AN TS1969 t in Charge

NW 78318

Docld:34489341 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36

PAGE TWO

IT IS BEING NOTED SUBJECT PREVIOUSLY IN CONTACT WITH MOISE

SIMON, ATTORNEY FOR BROWN AND ROOT BAY CITY, TEXAS RE

NEGOTIATIONS OF THE SALE OF CHURCHILL FARMS INC.

HOUSTON EXERCISE EXTREME CAUTION IN UTILIZATION OF ABOVE

INFO SO AS NOT TO COMPROMISE HIGHTLY SENSATIVE SOURCE ABOVE.

END .

NW 78318

Docld:34489341 Page 3

---

