# 124-10204-10204

## Page 1

Date : 10/21/98

Page :

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10204

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1135

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, TP

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE

: 10/20/66

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : LST, BKG, RES,

ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

2025 Release under the

President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318

Docld:34489574 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD- 35 (REV. 5-22-64)

F BI

Date: 10/20/66

Transmit the following in

Via

AI RTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) Ci

SUBJECT:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

(00: Tampa)

Re Tampa airtel to Director dated 10/12/66.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 6 copies of an LHM

for transmittal to Legat London.

Also enclosed are two

photographs of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. taken New York,

New York 9/66.

Source referred to in attached LHM is TP 41-C

who made the information available to SA JOHN A. AMBLER.

SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS:

a photas

2 - Tampa

BUreau (EnC. SYENOROSURE

JAA: 1m

(5)

REC 26

2991-135

CONCA

1st 2 photos

18 OGT 24 1966

280

07. 0e

Sent

_ M

Per -

Special Agent in Charge

NW 78318

Docld:34489574 Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UN ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Tampa, Florida

October 20, 1966

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

On September 23, 1966, a source who has furnished

reliable information in the past and who is associated

with Santo Trafficante, JX., advised as follows:

During Labor Day, 1966 weekend, Santo Trafficante,

Jr., had been at his St. Petersburg Beach, Florida residence

located on El Centro.

Trafficante, during the weekend,

made the statement that he had recently been in London,

England and that gambling in England was profitable.

Trafficante in commenting concerning his trip, indicated

that he had flown from London, England to California but

gave no indication of how he had originally arrived in

London.

Santo Trafficante, JY., was born November 15, 1914

at Tampa, Florida, is 5 feet 10 inches, weighs 175 pounds,

has light brown thinning hair, hazel eyes and has United

States Passport Number F-391387 in the name of Santo

Trafficante, JI., issued May 28, 1965.

Trafficante maintains residences at 2505 Bristol

Avenue, Tampa, Florida; 521 Northeast 71st Street, Miami,

Florida; and El Centro, St. Petersburg Beach, Florida.

Trafficante in the past has known to have been associated

with Dino Cellini, who reportedly is employed as managing.

director of the Colony Club,

• Berkley

/ Square, London,

England.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to

be distributed outside your agency.

92-4781-1135

ENCLOSURE

S0t-1090

NW 78318

Docld:34489574 Page 3

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

'ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF ISTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Tampa, Florida

October 20, 1966

SANZO TRADE CANCE e

JR.

on september 48, 1960, a source who has furnished

rellable information in the past

and who is associated

with Santo Trafficante, Jr., advised as follows:

During Labor Day, 1966 weekend,

Santo Trafficante,

Jr..

had been at his St. Petersburg Beach, Florida residence

located on El centro.

Traffieante, during the weekend,

made the statement that he had recently been in London,

England and that sanbling in England was profitable.

Trafficante in commenting concerning his trip, indieated

that he had flown fron london, Englam to calliorate but

gave no indication of how he had originally arrived in

London.

Santo Traificante, Jr., was born November 15, 1914

at Tampa, Florida, is 5 feet 10 inches, weighs 175 pounds,

*has light brown thinning hair, hase. eyes and has vasted

States Passport Number [-391387 in the name of Sante

Trafficante, Jr., Issued May 28, 1965.

Trafficante maintains residences at 2505 Bristol

Avenue, Tampa, Florida; 521 Northeast 71st Street, Miami,

Flortis; and El Centro,

St. Petersburg Beach, Florida.

Trafficante in the past has known to have been associated

with Dino Cellins, who reportedly is employed as managing

director of the Colony Club, Beriley Square, London,

England.

This document containe neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the fol and

is loaned to your agency; it and its contente are not to

be distributed outside your agency.

NW 78318

Docld:34489574 Page 4

---

