# 124-10274-10029

## Page 1

124-10274-10029

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5-113& (Rev. 3-21-73)

19l10l0o MORIS

SECRET

• DECLASSH-Y CN: 25%

CLASSIFIED BY SPEZ ALI. 1G

Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date

8/4/75

In connection with our responses to

the Senate Select Committee (SSC), the

White House has instructed that the Intel-

ligence Community prepare a briefing for

Senators Church and Tower of the SSC

regarding warrantless electronic surveil-

lances and

surreptitious entries. During

meetings of the Intelligence Community, it

was agreed that NSA, FBI and CIA would give

the briefings. No date has been scheduled

for the briefings, although it is antici-

pated representatives of the White House

will monitor a preview of the actual brief+

ing to be given Senators Church and Tower.

During meetings of the Intelligence

Community representatives, to discuss the

contents of such a briefing, it was agreed

among representatives of NSA, CIA and FBI

that efforts would be made to avoid identi-

fying specific foreign targets of surreptil

tious entries or warrantless electronic

surveillances.

Attached is a memorandum from CIA

advising that CIA has already disseminated

to the SSC information concerning sensitive

technical operations against certain

Embassies and diplomatic establishments in

the U.S.(5)

ACTION:

"or intonal you and seoord purpose.

SECRET

Classied 55 Versals

Exempt from SDS, Category /72

Date of Declas. lilication Indetinite

---

## Page 2

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1902 EDITION

OSA FPAIR 641 CFAN 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. J. B.

Adams

ASBOE. DIr. —

Dap. AD Adm. -

DaraAD Inv.

FROM : Legal Counsel

mp. Syst..

DATE:

8/6/75\

Ext. Affairs .

Mobile: 2082-2063

Fllos & Com. -

ma pid, is

Plan, & Eva

Spec. Inv.

Training —

Director Sac's —

On 8/6/75, Daniel M. (Mac) Armstrong, II, who was

on the personal staff of former Acting Director Gray, called to advise

that he had been contacted by John Elliff. He had known Elliff casually

during the confirmation hearings regarding Mr. Gray. Elliff told him

that he was personally interested in determining background on two matter

which were: (1) the decision to abolish the Crime Records Division; and

(2) the Legal Attache program.

:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Armstrong told him that he had no knowledge concerning the

Crime Records Division and had not even learned of its abolishment until

atter the fact. Armstrong referred Elliff to Dave Kinley regarding that

topic. Armstrong said that Elliff did not want to talk to him concerning the

Legal Attache program over the phone and said he would contact him in the

near future for an appointment to see him personally.

Armstrong said he was passing this information along to us in

order to keep us advised of his contacts with the Senate Select Committee

concerning his Bureau information which came to him as a result of his

Bureau employment.

RECOMMENDATION:

REG26l0 - 11252=5524

EX•101

EX AUG 15 1975

For information.

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Hotis

1 - Mr. Mintz

1 - Mr. Herington

JH:mid

(6)

2 6 1975

(Amating

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

9010-108

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SENSITIVE

BIE TYBI INFORIANHON CONTENA

DivD÷75/327

4 August 1975

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:

Senate Seléct Committee Staff Knowledge

of CIA Domestic Electronic Surveillance

Against Foreign Targets

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD

Dep. AD

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs -

Flles & Com. _

Gen. Inv. —

Ident. -

aspection f

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Eval. —

Spec. Inv. -

Training _

Telephone Rm. —

Director See'y -

1. In our discussions preparatory to the briefing to

be given to Senators Church

and Tower, we have agreed to try

to avoid identifying specific foreign

targets of the various

types of operations which will be discussed, although it was

generally recognized that it would be impossible to avoid

discussing the Soviet target specifically: I have recently

learned that the SSC Staff is aware of the fact (from material

turned over to them by CIA) that CIA "participated in a series

of electronic surveillance operations in the ü.S."

The infor-

mation is contained in a single paragraph, which goes on io

"Included among them are operations against the

Czech Embassy, the UAR Embassy, the Chilean Embassy»

-the Soviet Consulate in San Francisco, the present.

This being so, it can be expected that the Staff will

have brought this information

to the senators' attention,

I will be prepared to respond factually to questions with re-

spect to these operations, which of course were carried out in

pursuit of NSA requirements, and with fBI coordination and oi

support.

EX-T01

REC-26 62-116

523

Notwithstanding this regrettable breach in the

ciple we have agreed to try to maintain. I believe we should

SLẦUG 15 1975

resist pressures to expand on the number of identified

targets

, fo made for

temporar

use o

lestru stron

8/4/15° CC: NSA*

(Mr. Richard Kern)

FBI (Mr. William Cregar)

IC Staff (Adm. Showers)

84 AUG 1 8 1975

While an

Edward

Chief, Division

SECRET

5-Eut

SENSIIIVE 62-116595

---

