# 124-90137-10488

## Page 1

124-90137-10488

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/17/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-90137-10488

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 07/27/1961

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953

DocId:32337722 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

L'

TO:

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C

7-10-48

FBI INFO

Director!"

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

JFK)

2% JUL 1951

RECEIVED FROM

JUL 2 8 196,

CIA SJA

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Deputy Director, Plans pe

[auardo Bepinosa y Prieto, bor ah January 19097151

Mexico

BA(TER)

Parades

alicin here

Fates: 100-155

3-1

This Agency was queried recently by the BIV (Bundesamt fuer

Vertassungeschutz - Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution) & - /

Germany for information on Subject. A German citizen in Bremen, suspected (S

of colla latelligence service activities, received a $1,000.00 deposit In

bis accout from Espinosa.]

2.

Your permission is requested to pass the following information,

some of which was obtalked from your files, tolthe German authoritles: (5)

Eduardo Espinosa] 5)

born 24 January 1909, Mexico City, Mexico, appointed Mexican

Ambassador to Warsaw during the summer

of 1960. August 1957 to(s)

summer 1960/accredited to the United: Nations Headquarters in NewS

York City with the rank of Ambassador as an Alternate Permanent

During his New York City tenure, he was known to write

bank. drafts to persons known to be active Communist workers. It

was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist

Party activities

appears to be a soviet contact, and that his

Tamara

pinosa,

echkurova, native Russian (5)

was reported tó

sorted to mave to an agent september et urte

To ta to espin exto, he or at de eat at the Couple

were particularly friendly with Soviet Ambassador Kapustin during

her mother still resides in the USs

1953. Mrs. Espinosa brother ated in a soule pron dà 1953, ana (5)

These facts might indicate & Soviet hold over Espinosa.

opinions collected from persons who knew Espinosa, when he served inc

hanghai, Bogota, Mexico, Caracas, Togoland, and the U.s.,, vary from

basically friendly to the U.S" to the following: That he had been e

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

penetration agent in the Axis group (In Shanghai) on behalf of the

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCOPI FOR bRACETS

REC- 52

105<2464245

KP5-18-98

22 AUG 3

hit ciA

512/61

SECRET

16524642(6)

(23)

FORM NO.

1 NOV 55

NH 50953 DocId: 32337722 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

-2-

....

USSR, that be was 100% pro-Communist and most dangerous, that

he has been an eagerly cooperative contact of the Soviets in

Mexico for several years, and so on. The bulk of opinions are

MVD agent.

derogatory in nature, Petrov identifted Wre Bapnosaas an(5)

CSCI-3/766,521

SEGREE SEd

HH 50953

DocId: 32337722 Page 3

---

