# 124-10223-10304

## Page 1

Date :

Page :

04/17/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10223-10304

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

.: 166-3200-1ST NR 524

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : AG

TITLE:

DATE : 02/01/72

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : JRO, PARZOW, WILLIAM ALEXANDER, OC, RES, TRA, REL,

BUSS, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS:: 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/17/98

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

NW 78318 Docld:34490012 Page 1

---

## Page 2

The Attorney General

Pobruary I, 1972

DiInCtOr, IDI

WELLINI MIGRANDEE PARZON,

ALGO RUOIN AS

WIT DIAL ASPAUM PARZOW

1: WnF2011

NIE VILLIAN

"200E 'DIE SUNTOR"

WOOTEROUS - INTORTAZION CONCENITIUG

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

1 - Mr. Felt

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr.

Bates

1 - Mr. Bolz

1 - Mr. Shanley

1.1-

The Lollcuing Information vas Eccoired fren is

Incornant of this Lureau who bos furichod 2o2icble incoration

In the past.

Bocnice of cho Informant'e concitive position in

organizod caine, or Jos Angaleo, Calliomnia, Office zomoots

tue infornation bo doalt sith in strict confidonse.

MAILED 2

1072

Millan Alexander Parzon, Segortculy woll krown in

organized colno end 2 Day Jerooy Toadcoat, was vindting his

son-in-low, Donali Droolona, 19566 Colabla Avenue, Fiato,

California, on Jenunry 10 ned 11, 1972. According to ke

incornant, Farzon eperates an insuzance basinons in For Xork,

nor lock,

businass

and is a non-practiciny attorney, howaver, his nai

1s influonce peddlint and politically fixing aituations

For individualo who have hoodlun connectiono and dia can pay

i vast suns of noney for this purpone.

Farton clains to be "vall

pachington, D. Co, attorney, and hillian f. Hundley, Enracr

Section Chlef, Organized Crino and Racketcoring, U. Barbepartmentes

of justico.

FEB. 2 1972

On January 10, 1972, uhila In Los Angoles, Califorala,

Red

Perzow Icportedly nade the atoteuent that one of the seagous

he was In Los Angeles van that an unand individual in

Mr. T'olson -

Filladelphlo, Foonsylvania, asked hia to nee 16 ho could ecatet

Mir. Felt …

In obtaining

Mr. Rosen.

Air. Mohr

Incarceratod in the rodoral Correctional IncEitution, Comped,

-Calitorias" Tilo Bureau'y filed revial Jacobs wao convicted in

Menill. Es. _U. S. Dintrict Court, Los Angolco, California, on Deachbor 18,

Mr. Callahan -

Mr. Casper

-1009, Lor vinintions regarding interstate travel and uno of

Mr. Courad

Mr. Dalbey

-Intonatore facilitien in ald of racketecring enterprises

Mr. Ponder

_Intecobato teansportation of fraudeltatly taken securitien, and

-Faiso statementa

Mr. Batea

21 Inoone tax cocaines

Mr. Waikart.

ST

Mr.

Walterg

Mr. Soj

Telo.

Міва

59FEB 410) 19

Ming

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE PACET RECORDE

115 FEB 2 1972 CMO

A FILED INCO

NW 78318 Docld:34490012 Page 2

---

## Page 3

cho Attorney Conoral

On January 10, 1072, Parxow also Indicated Cial Do

had in bis posseanton federal

Crand durg tranceripts concerting

an Factoch Ponsylvaalo grand jusy that was looked into

election lar violations, which invectigation was hoaded by

a decoral Strike Feroc.

He save no roason for hazing tar

transcriuts, but roportcaly said the cace involvod one Pat

leos Colicornia, sot Lusther identified, and four governora

Fron

Diser States.

Parrow claintd to hove recoived thine crmoriets

tron & ranking offlotal alth the Federol Stril Forec.

dannay 21, 1972, Pexzon exhibited coxcain doowneate witch che

inforrant holloved to

be question and answor Federal Grand jury

transcripta.

They vore Scon tha Fastorn Distrloc of

Paansylvanie, and one was dated June 30, 1971.

On January Il, 1972, Parco cemarked stat he bod act

the con of John illogic and as a sasult of that nooting he

Latened

to assiat Ailezio in offocting his darly colease fros

che Federal Corractloral Inatitation, Loupoc.

NO Gaid pagent

For Endo sorvior will be in prenius paid to his licy You.

inaucence conpany, hoover, no Incurance policy will be 10s6ed.

this curcau has detorained that John Allonio is currently

Incaccorated in the above corcoccional institution folloing

dio conviction in U. S. District Court, San Diago, Calitornia,

for tax fraud.

So investigation in thio matter 1a boing conductod

My tois Bureau In the absence of a spoclele eequeai foon the

V. 6. Dapartoont of Justice,

1. " The popuby Atsorney Generas.

1. = Audiatant Attorney General

Criolnal Diviadon

NOTE:

Above information furnished by LA 4711-C-TE who has

furnished extremely reliable information in the past concerning

organized crime matters.. Because of the vague nature of the

information attributed to subject Parzow, this information is

being brought to the attention of the Department and no further

action is indicated at this time.

NW 78318 Docld:34490012 Page 3

---

