# 124-10204-10278

## Page 1

Date : 02/11/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10204-10278

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

2-1821-28

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO

SAC, MM

TITLE

: 08/02/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS

: ACA, VDEH, EXPLOSIVES, SEIZED, BOMBING RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 02/11/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

2025 Helease under the

President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1942

NW 78318

Docld:34489629 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1 - Nasca

8/2/63

Airtel

To: SAC, Miami

2 - New Orleans

2 - Newark

2 - Atlanta

2 - Jacksonville

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ICKEN IS UNCLASSIriLL

DATE id//5/

14/18/94

From: Director, FBI

VICIOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ, et al.

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

ReNOtel 8/1/63 in captioned matter.

Miami immediately advise results of interview of

Miami PCI Michael McLaney, particularly whether he is related to

William Julius McLaney

In view of Michael McLaney's reported

interest in 6/15/63 plan to bomb Cuba, he might well have a connection

with this case and may have influenced William MeLaney to cooperate

in captioned matter.

33

sit 330

Miant also inmediately interview Antonlo Soto, Evelto

Alpizar, Miguel Alvarez,

Sam Benton and Jose de Jesus Basulto Leon

who have been mentioned in previous Miami communications as possibly

being involved in this matter, as well as any other suspects developed

through investigation, Miami also interview Gonzale Herrera, former

Cuban airlines, pilot and other logical former Cuban pilots who may

have been approached to pilot planes in this matter.

If not already

done: all suspects connected with the June 16% 1963, attempt to bomb

Cuba, which was handled by Customs, should

intervieved.

Tolson

1 - Albany

Belmont

… - New York

RECO

Mohr

Springfield

W.

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

MAS

2-1821

D 20

DeLoach VHN: pal

Evans

Gale

(15)

AUG 2 * 1963

Rosen

Sullivan

COMM-FBI

19 AUG

8.196.

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

GRAUG 121

96

ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

V NA

N9-820

NW 78318

Docld:34489629 Page 2

3

---

## Page 3

Airtel to SAC, Miami

Re: VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ, et al.

New Orleans obtain as accurate an estimate as

possible of the cash value of the explosives and other material

seized.

Advise Bureau of this figure by airtel and be certain

to include it as a recovery value in the forthcoming report being

submitted.

All offices conducting investigation in the matter

cover leads immediately upon receipt, and surep without delay in

view of the importance of this case and the Department's interest.

Report significant developments to Bureau by teletype.

Every effort should be made to identify all.

participants, the source of funds, the

source of arms and the

location of planes, if any, which

were to be utilized in the

bombing attack on Cuba.

All offices will keep Bureau, Miami

and New Orleans currently advised of all developments.

S0d-1918

NW 78318

Docld:34489629 Page 3

---

