# 124-90138-10007

## Page 1

124-90138-10007

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90138-10007

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-63987-210-370

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE: 10/02/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

INTELLIGENCE MATTERS CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

19.1

HW 50953

DocId: 32337738

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Gentral Intelligence Agency

RISECREN

12338

He is willin

remeter to Vergara

and instruct him to dera

E pepecs to a person who

would be designated this letter. He would make such

a letter available to the Fil for delivery to Vergera-C(u)

Garcia advised that he has had no contact with

Vergara since his departure

from Cuba.

it roasible, It is requested that your Agency take !

the necessary steps, possibly through the Spanish Government S

or through the Swiss Embassy in Havana, to obtain Gorcia"s

papers since they could conceivably contain intelligence and/or

propaganda data of interest to the United States Government.

If you desire, we would be glad to hove Garcia write a personal

letter to Vergara which would be made avallable to your Agency.

If Garcia's papers are obtained, they will be revieved by our

Mient Office and pertinent data contained therein will be nade

available to interested agencies of the United States Coverrment

NOTE: FOR SAC, MIAMI:

On 9/26/63 State Department advised that it preferred

G, that we handle this matter through CIAl

Above for your informa-

tion.

NOTE:

We previously directed a letter to State Department

asking that they handle the above matter.

Contact with State

Department on 9/26/63 was made byb$Ao. H.

Bartlett with

Mr. John MacDonald of State.

NH 50953 DocId: 32337738 Page 2

---

