# 124-10326-10098

## Page 1

|124-10326-10098

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10326-10098

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-99724-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

KEAY

TO: BELMONT

DATE : 06/10/1953

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

49.1

NW 50953

DooId: 32313170

Page

1

---

## Page 2

STANDATE FORM NO, B6

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE: June 10, 1953

FROM

Tolson ..

Ladd --

Nithola

Belmont wo

CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCI

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM JAMES ANGLETON

Gearty

Winterrowd

Tele. Room-

SYNOPSIS:

Hollomas —

3i200 -

1o in charge of Are god, a tate a gene a 19-

of confidential Informant. In order to handle his material in a i

efficient and secure manner,

It is being recommended that a control

file be created.

section Chiefs are also being alerted regarding the

nanaling of injormation receLved from angleton u

1-1

RECOMMENDATIONS:

I. It is recommended that the attached memorandum be.

disseminated to all Section Chiefs of the Domestic Intelligence

Division, which sets forth instructions concerning the handling

of information transmitted to the Bureau by Angleton.

7-26-98

7.0

CHeEr r5668- 518/85R

DF!

Laylor Shit

IN THIS DOC: VENT EXCEPT BRACKETS

Fedommended that a separate control site n7-8-48

created which will contain a copy of each "Sp" memorandum which lU)

Angleton furnishes the Bureau.

Such copies will be maintained i

the file in numerical order and it will not be neceseary "central

Intelligence Agency - James Angleton mile be entitled,

the names.

It is suggested that this

Classm

by SPYELW/KEA

Declass

: DADR f:A.7788-1826

'All: IN DIESATION CONTAINEE

EXCETY MIM

1 HOWN

UGHEE TSE

DETAILS:

James Angleton, a CIA official, is in charge of a section

preferred to do Speckal Projecto CORD A 12 or CAStereon

JUn. 12 1953

Attachment

1 - Mт. Hed 15-6 JUN 23 1959

SE

24

- Mr. Hannall

NW 50953

DooId: 32313170 Page 2

X(V)

---

## Page 3

Memo to Mr. Belmont

SECRET

Re:

Central Intelligence Agency

Information Received from James

Angleton

•Intelligence division. Angleton handles special cases of a various

nature and he is usually given considerable freedom and leeway in

directing the operations of his unit.

In general, he is responsible

only to the Director. of CIA. yue hos numerous foreign sources and

channels for developing information.

The primary source is the Israeli

Intelligence seruice. Oin addition to this,

he is in contact with

lodically makes available to Angleton copies

Labore sentate throughout the world. en representatives

are associated with the Free Trade Union Committee, which is sub-

sidized by the CIA. Angleton also has independent sources in the

intelligence services of France, Italy, Greece, and Great Britain.

On occasion he utilizes sources in the vatican. Some of the men

under his control are on various foreign assignments in Europe and

are responsible only to him. Most of them are traveling under.

commercial couer y

During the past several months Angleton has been very

cooperative with the Bureau.

He has volunteered voluminous infor

mation of interest to the Bureau and he has followed Bureau leads

in an effective manner.

Much of the information which angleton

has furnished appears

that is, it consists of the

advantage because the Bureau has been in a position to better evaluate

the information instead of waiting for the delay and processing through

normal channels in the CIA. In addition to information regarding

security matters furnished by Angleton, he has also been of valuable

assistance by keeping the Licison Agent apprised of administrative

changes and reorganization within the CIA. Angleton is thoroughly

informed regarding the foreign intelligence activities of his agency

and he frequently clarifies matters which the CIA sometimes camouflages

with some of its cloaks and dagger techniques. If u)

For your information, Angleton was instructed by General

Walter Bedell Smith, while he was still Director of the CIA, lto

(4)

cooperate fully with the liaison Agent and was told that he,

Angleton, could disseminate any information he saw fit. This policy

has continued under Allen Dulles.

Since the volume of information received from Angleton

has increased the Liaison Agent has endeavored

to encourage Angleton

to establish some uniformity in the dissemination of information to

SECRET

AN 50953 Docld: 32313170 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SEL

Memo to Mr. Belmont

Re: Central Intelligence Agency,

Information Received from James

Angleton

furnishing the Liaison Agent blank memorando unich are dated,

captioned, and which carry a control number; for example, "SP]."

This number will serve as a ready reference when some question

comes up within the Bureau or the cIA.

The Liaison Agent will make

an appropriate notation on each memorandum indicating that the

documents emanate from Angleton.

It is believed advisable to set

up a control file containing a copy of each document furnished by

Angleton.

This can be done in a manner similar to the arrangement

effected

in handling reports received from [stott.] (5)

In usew of the above,

Angleton more or less falls into

the category of a confidential Informant. He furnishes informatior

of a sensitzve nature and it is,

therefore, believed that when

asseminating nos data, ne

should be protected as a source.

Up to

date supervisors have been

handling this information in a secure

manner; however, since the volume

has increased,

regarding the handling of information received from Angleton.

SECRET

50953

DocId: 32313170 Page 4

---

