# 124-10223-10076

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

04/24/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: FBI

RECORD

NUMBER

:124-10223-10076

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 92-3267-368

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC, LA

TO

: DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/02/62

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : JRO, CAR RENTAL, HERTZ CORP, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/20/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

pe raise under the eden do ened

NW 78318 Docld:34489857 Page 1

---

## Page 2

nit

DERAL BUREAU OF INVI

JU. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 2 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DaLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

URgENT

11-2-62

8-29 PM

MB

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3267/

1130

FROM SAC, LOS ANGELES /92-1203e/

2P

JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT DASH C ADVISED ROSSELLI AT THE FRIAR-S

CLUB AFTERNOON NOVEMBER ONE LAST. DURING AFTERNOON NAME OF

PAT O-MALLEY, WHO IS ALLEGEDLY AFFILIATED WITH VENDING MACHINE

OPERATIONS IN CHICAGO AREA, WAS MENTIONED AND ROSSELLI STATED

THAT HE KNEW EVERYONE IN THE RACKETS IN CHICAGO BUT THAT HE NEVER

HEARD OF O-MALLEY. ROSSELLI ALSO SAID THAT IN LAS VEGAS QUOTED

ODDS ARE EIGHT TO FIVE THAT PAT BROWN WILL WIN OVER NIXON IN THE

RACE FOR GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA. ROSSELLI THEN ADDED THAT HE

WAS BETTING ON BROWN TO WIN BUT HE WAS GOING TO VOTE FOR

NIXON. IN THIS REGARD IT IS NOTED

NOX. - 120HAT

Rosselet is ner

REC- 43

137-2

REGISTERED VOTER IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY AND BECAUSE OF HIS CONVICTION

125 NDI 5 1962

IN FORTY THREE IS NOT ENTITLED TO VOTE.

NEIGHBORHOOD SOURCES ADVISE ROSSELLI STILL IN LOS ANGELES.

HERIZ CORP, BEVERLY HILTON HOTEL STATION, ADVISED ROSSELLI

STILL HAS POSSESSION OF RENTAL CAR WHICH HE STATED HE WOULD RETURN

END PAGE ONE

54 NOV8

1962

@C1531

NW 78318 Docld:34489857 Page 2

---

