# 135-10001-10246

## Page 1

30/18

8127178

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 09/14/94

Page: 1

AGENCY : HPSCI

RECORD NUMBER

:135-10001-10246

RECORDS SERIES :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

8/20198

Kp1zaps99

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCK

FROM : CARGILL, MASON

TO : FILE

TITLE :

DATE : 04/22/75

PAGES :

27

SUBJECTS :

MCCONE PAPERS.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

OPEN IN FULL Postponed

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 09/14/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

1923 elease under the President John r. Kennedy Assassination Fecords tollection Act oi

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 1

---

## Page 2

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

April 22, 1975

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

8 Ang 74

this page caly)

MEMORANDUM

TO :

File

FroM:

Mason Cargill

Subject: MC CONE PAPERS

I have gone through most of the papers remaining

at the Agency prepared by DCI McCone from November 29, 1961,

through December 31, 1964.

Attached are notes

on portions

of them dealing in any way with possible assassination

attempts and contacts with the Warren Commission.

Enclosures

RMC : clb

(2)

SECRET

SENSITIVE

MATERIAL" ATTACHED

NW 78141

Docld:32201331

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEC

SEI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

8 Ang

74

(if 1-12 valy)

MC CONE PAPERS

NOVEMBER 24, 1961 - DECEMBER 31, 1964

REFERENCES TO CUBA ASSASSINATIONS,

WARREN COMMISSION MATTERS

BOX 2: MEMORANDA FOR RECORD

FIle: November 29, 1961 - April 5, 1962

December 5, 1961, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy -

"Lansdale operation" mentioned in paragraph 12.

December 27, 1961, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy -

"Lansdale operation" mentioned in paragraph 5.

January 22, 1962, Meeting with Attorney General Kennedy -

Reference to a

"Lansdale paper" to be discussed by the 5412

Committee plus Robert Kennedy.

April 5, 1962, Memos on Special Group/Mongoose Project -

General

discussion of possible military intervention in Cuba.

File: April 7, 1962 - August 21, 1962

(40) - April 10, 1962, phone call to Bundy explaining that

Attorney General upset that Perrez was apparently telling

people in Miami about his five meetings with the Attorney

General. Cardona was to meet JFK that day.

(61) - July 3, 1962, meeting with Attorney General -

included a short discussion of "Reuther plan" for labor

operations apparently in Italy.

(86) - August 21, 1962, meeting with Rush, McNamara, Alexis

Johnson, the Attorney General, Director of Central Intelligence,

General Taylor, Lemnitzer, and M. Bundy - a general discussion

of Cuban situation and possible courses of action if MRBM'S

are discovered in Cuba:

"McNamara expressed strong feelings

that we should tale

every possible aggressive

action in the fields of intelligence, sabo-

tage and guerrilla warfare, utilizing Cubans

and do such other things as might be indi-

cated to divide the Castro regime."

(emphasis added)

SECRET

- SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

- 2 -

File: August 24, 1962 - December 31, 1962

(97) - October 5, 1962, Meeting between DCI and Bundy:

McCone wanted to be more activist toward Cuba - Bundy was

more conservative. (No specifics)

(118) - December 17, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on

Cuba [MISSING]

[Apparently not a meeting or phone call]

(Comments on Report on Missile Crisis, according to Elder)

(119) - December 18, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on Cuba

[MISSING]

(120) - December 19, 1962, DCI memo re Earman Report on Cuba

[MISSING]

File: June 1, 1963 - February 9, 1963

(12) - January 21, 1963, phone call between DCI and

Eisenhower (transcript)

about Cuba. (No mention of

assassination.)

File: February 9, 1963 - April 9, 1963

(36) - March 5, 1963, Memo Of DCI discussion with Attorney

General [No one to see without DCI permission] [DESTROYED]

[According to Elder, dealt with wiretap of newsmen.]

(38) - March 7, 1963, Memo of conversation with Attorney

General at Hickory Hill [No one to see without DCI permission]

[DESTROYED]

(52) - March 30, 1963, DCI discussion with Eisenhower and

Lundahl on "current status of Cuba" [DESTROYED]

File: April 15, 1963 - June 4, 1963

(68) - Memo of DCI on Cuban Policy: "Random thoughts

developed by DCI on various aspects of the Cuban problem

and the discussions at Standing Group prepared for use by

representatives of DCI at meetings on this subject during

his absence from the country," April 25, 1963, contains

the following:

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SENSITIVE

- 3 -

"I agree with the ONE estimate that

Castro's political position will im-

prove within the next year (barring

assassination)."

The context clearly indicates, however, that DCI is not

proposing this.

(77) - DCI memo of May 18, 1963, on Haiti: contains this

statement:

"Apparently Duvalier, in the absence of assassi-

nation, will survive the efforts of internal opposition

elements..." Context indicates DCI was not proposing or

considering assassination.

(61) - April 15, 1963, Memo of meeting between Attorney

General and Director of Central Intelligence

about "Helms/

Angleton operation, Cuban sabotage proposals"

[DESTROYED]

(62) - April 17, 1963, Meeting Of DCI and Rusk about:

"Helms/Angleton Project..."

[DESTROYED]

File: June 5, 1963 - July 20, 1963

Nothing Relevant

File: July 23, 1963 - November 26, 1963

(133) - August 20, 1963, Luncheon with DCI, Colonel Grogan,

Tom Ross of Chicago Sun

Times MISSING]

(138) - september 5, 1963, DCI and Bundy, "After Special Group"

(138) - September 7, 1963, DCI and Papich [MISSING]

(138) - September 12, 1963, DCI and J. Edgar Hoover at

Justice Department

[MISSING]

(158.5) - October 24, 1963, DCI/Robert F. Kennedy lunch at

Kennedy's house

[MISSING]

(168) - November 26, 1963, DCI and Bundy on message about

Kennedy assassination MISSING]

SECRET ~

SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET SENSITIVE

- 4-

(168) - November 15, 1963, DCI and Rusk: Sukarno had

said

that British and CIA were plotting to kill him.

Rusk asked

If CIA had any information about a plot by British.

DCI

said no.

File: November 27, 1963 - December 31, 1963

[Entire contents of file missing.]

From titles, nothing here appears relevant.

File: January 1, 1964 - February 11, 1964

Nothing relevant.

File: February 12, 1964 - April 5, 1964

[Entire contents of file missing.]

(25.5) - February 19, 1964, DCI and Fitzgerald: "White House.

Meeting - Situation Room - Re:

Cuba "

IDESTROYED]

(36.1) - March 14, 1964, Meeting of DCI, Bundy, Helms [DESTROYED]

(46) - April 5, 1964, Meeting Of DCI

and Rusk: "EYES ONLY -

NO DISTRIBUTION - FSO Richard Fredericks; Carl Rowan;

Republican Platform of 1960." [DESTROYED]

File: April 6, 1964 - July 8, 1964

(49) - April 16, 1964, Meeting with: DCI, Justice Warren,

Senator Cooper,

Stern, Rankin, Willens of subject:

"Met in

DCI's Office"

[MISSING]

(58) - May 14, 1964, DCI, Rankin, Helms - Subject: "Warren

Commission

(accompanied by Mr. Helms).

Helms

saw commission

transcript and returned it to the commission."

"No MR

expected"

[MISSING]

(69) - June 12, 1964, DCI, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Luce: "Memos

used at lunch're:

Cuban article in TIME" - NO DISTRIBUTION -

nothing on assassinations.

SECRET SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

SENSITIV

- 5 -

File: July 8, 1964 - August 12, 1964

(No file under these dates.)

File: August 12, 1964 - September 10, 1964

Nothing relevant.

File: September 11, 1964 - October 31, 1964

(138) - October 15, 1964, DCI, Sam Papich - "NO DISTRIBUTION -

discussion re Walter Jenkins'

matter."

[DESTROYED]

(143) - October 22, 1964, DCI, Robert Kennedy: "In

Presidential Suite, NYC - Personal discussion

EYES ONLY

JAM - NO DISTRIBUTION" [DESTROYED]

File: November 1, 1964 - December 31, 1964

Nothing relevant.

BOX 8: MEMORANDA OF MEETINGS WITH THE PRESIDENT

File: October 25, 1961 - July 31, 1962

(B) - December 14, 1961, at a meeting with the President

and General Taylor, DCI advised Kennedy that there were

possible dangers that he might be the subject of an assassi-

nation attempt on his planned trip to Colombia and Venezuela,

which the CIA could not guarantee the safety of.

(6) - February 11, 1962, at a meeting with the President, .

Bundy, and Taylor, DCI discussed efforts to convince one

Charles Murphy not to write a certain article for Life

magäzine on some subject related to Cuba. Apparently,

the

article was revised to DCI's satisfaction and then published.

(12) - May 7, 1962, at a meeting with the President and

Taylor, DCI discussed Operation Mongoose in some detail.

No mention of assassinations.

SECRET

SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET - SENSITIVE

-6 -

File: JulY 31, 1962 - November 29, 1962 [actually covering

through Dec. 18, 19621

(28) - July 20, 1962: At a meeting with the President,

Taylor, and Alexis Johnson, Mongoose was discussed.

NO

mention of assassination.

(52) - October 26, 1962: At a meeting of NSC Executive

Committee, DCI discussed Mongoose. No mention of assassination.

(55) - October 30, 1962: "Memo to DDCI outlining Presidential

Directive to CIA; no provocative actions by refugee groups;

estop Alpha 66; stop Mongoose ops; no contact with Press."

[MISSING]

(70) - November 29, 1962: At a meeting of the NSC

Executive Committee (President absent), DCI discussed

Mongoose. No mention of

assassination.

File: January 1, 1963 - March 31, 1963

(7) - January 23, 1963 (4:30 p.M.): Meeting with President,

DCI, and Helms."

No memo present.

Listing does not indicate

whether or not memo was prepared, even though it generally

indicates when memos were not prepared.

Secretary's note

of 1/27/72 (MB) notes:

"No MR in file"

(8) - January 23, 1963 (4:45 p.m.): Meeting between DCI

and President - missing memo; same situation as # (7) above.

(28) - March 25, 1963: In meeting with President, DCI

"reviewed the requirements for telephonic and audio surveillance

intelligence at selected embassies and foreign residences within

the United States..." President suggested that the DCI talk™

nes at selected

with J. Edgar Hoover on this matter.

File: April 1, 1963 - July 1, 1963

(33) - April 16, 1963:. In meeting with the President, DCI

discussed two methods of dealing with Castro: (1) "Working

on" Castro to turn him from Soviets; (2) Pressuring USSR to

remove from Cuba and "then to bring about the downfall of

Castro by means which coula be; developed after the removal

of Soviet troops..."

No mention of assassination.

SECRET

SENSI

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

SENSITIVE

_ 7-

(43) - May 27, 1963: In meeting of President, DCI, and

others, policy towards covert operations against Haiti were

discussed. No mention of assassination.

(50) - June 19, 1963: In meeting with the President and

others, DCI discussed plans for covert operations against

Cuba, including "external sabotage."

Vague memo of record

by Desmond FitzGerald, but no mention of

assassination.

File: JulY 1, 1963 - November 12, 1963

(74) - November 12, 1963:

and others, 'McCone emphasized that to a very considerable

phasiz a

At a meeting of the President, DCI,

extent these [Cuban exile groups] are uncontrollable and

forecast that once Artime was in business, we might expect

some events to take place which were not exactly to our liking."

(This was in a general discussion of covert actions against

Cuba; no mention of assassination.)

File: November 23, 1963 - December 31, 1963

(1) November 23, 1963 (memo of November 25): DCI told

Lyndon B. Johnson of information received from Mexico City.

DCI later called Rusk to tell him of information from Mexico City:

"

...the holding of a Mexican employee of the Cuban embassy by

Mexican officials for interrogation concerning Lee Oswald."

(4) November 25 and 26, 1963 (memo of November 26) :

meetings with the President and the DCI, the President expressed

"contempt" at Justice Department suggestion of independent inves-

tigation of John F. Kennedy's assassination. He instructed the

DCI to insure CIA cooperation with the FBI report.

(4) November 29, 1963: In a meeting with DCI, Lyndon B.

onnson, MCNamara, and Bundy, the DCI apparently gave latest

levelopments in Mexico City investigation of Oswald.

A list

of "late developments" is in file, to be used. for this purpose.

(Obtain copy.)

File: January 1, 1964 - April 2, 1964

Nothing relevant.

SECRET

- SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Sit

- SENSIT

-8 -

File: April 3, 1964 - May 20, 1964

(19) - April 7, 1964: Meeting of DCI, President, and others

re Cuba Covert Action.

Here DCI advocates strong program to obtain overall objective

set forth in a paper of June 8, 1963:

"The ultimate objective

of this policy would be to encourage dissident elements in the

military and other power centers of the regime to bring about the

eventual liquidation of the Castro/communist entourage

and the

elimination of the Soviet presence from Cuba." (emphasis added)

[OBTAIN COPYI

File: May 21, 1964 - October 5, 1964

September 30, 1964: Meeting of "DCI; President; et al" to

discuss

"Warren Commission Report - (to set up Presidential

Committee) " - No memo indicated to have been prepared.

File: October 6, 1964 - December 28, 1964

Nothing Relevant.

BOX 1: 303 COMMITTEE, COUNTERINSURGENCY, SPECIAL GROUP,

CHRONO (1962)

File: 303 - January - December, 1963

Several sets of minutes have the following notations after

paragraphs dealing with Cuban operations:

"See special

minutes for additional items." - No such "special minutes"

appear to be contained in this file.*

However, this same nota

tion appeared in connection with other subjects.

This file contains several discussions of the Haitian problem.

Although it's clear the participants would like to be rid of

Duvalier, there is no mention of assassination.

Nothing else relevant.

File: January - December, 1964

Contains discussion of Haitian problem, and CIA agreed to

"explore methods of dealing with

the Duvalier problem in

the immediate future."

(May 12, 1964)

*Other than certain memoranda prepared by McCone.

SECRET

SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET SENSITIVE

- 9 -

The minutes of the June 18, 1964, meeting (dated June 22, 1964)

contained the following:

[OBTAIN COPY)

(signed by Peter Jessup)

"A paper was discussed on alleged plans which involve

the underworld to assassinate certain Cuban leaders.

stated that he would like to go into the matter further.

Others, including Mr. Bundy, felt that the United States was

being put on notice and should do everything in its power to

ascertain promptly the veracity of the reports and then under-

take prevention.

It was decided that Mr. Bundy would call the

matter to the Attorney General's attention as à

matter of law

enforcement."

Mr. McCone's personal memorandum for the record on this

meeting (dated) June 18, 1964, contains substantially the same

information.

JOBTAIN COPY] It refers to a June 10, 1964, CIA

memorandum "reporting plans of Cuban exiles to assassinate

leading Cuban government leaders." This memo apparently had

been sent to Special Group members and the Attorney General.

[OBTAIN COPY] McCone's memo contains the following:

"ACTION: Discuss with General Carter and Mr. Helms steps we

should

take to establish the credibility of the report; also

communicate with the FBI through Mr. Papich. Also I should

call the Attorney General personally."

The official minutes of the July 30, 1964, 303 Committee

meeting (dated July 31, 1964) (referred to in 1967 IG report)

contain no mention of assassination or even of Cuba.

Mr. McCone's personal memorandum (dated July 31, 1964) had

only the following reference to Cuba:

"Proposed infiltration/exfiltration operations into Cuba for

August were approved and the July operations were noted."

File: Counterinsurgency - January - June, 1962

Nothing relevant.

SECRET

- SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

- SENSITIVE

- 10

BOX 7 - MISCELLANEOUS

Envelope - "Cuba Loose Ends"

Much information on Mongoose. No mention of assassination.

Envelope containing FBI report of October 16, 1963, entitled

"Communism and the Negro Movement - A Current Analysis"

contains comments on Dr. King's personal life. Relayed by

J. Edgar Hoover to McCone.

File: "Cuba - Background Material"

This file contains only material relating to the Cuban missile

crisis.

It contains no references to any assassinations.

File: "White House"

This file, covering 1962 and 1963, contains correspondence

to, from, and of interest to the White House.

SECRET

- SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET SENSITIVE

- 11 -

BOX 5: MISCELLANEOUS

The file entitled "Cuba Package" does not appear to be in this

box.

The name of this file, however, appears on the page which

purports to list the files in the box.

File: Cuba 1962

Nothing relevant to assassinations.

File: Cuba 1964

February 21, 1964, memorandum for the Director of Central

Intelligence from Desmond FitzGerald, Chief, Special Affairs

Staff, entitled "Spectrum of Courses of Action with Respect

to Cuba. "

This nine-page memorandum outlines many possible

courses of action which the U.S. Government could take with

respect to Fidel Castro even including measures as drastic as

an actual invasion of the island by U.S. military forces. It,

however, contains no mention or reference to possible assassi-

nation of Castro.

BOX 6: MISCELLANEOUS

File: Presidential Briefing, December 22, 1964

Nothing relevant to assassination.

File: "M" File

Nothing relevant to our subject of interest.

File: "D" File

This file contains papers dealing with the services of Allen

Dulles as a consultant to the Agency after his retirement.

There is no mention of the subject in which we are interested.

File: "W" File

Nothing relevant.

SECRET - SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET SENSITIVE

- 12 - •

BOX 4: MISCELLANEOUS

From the listing of files contained, nothing appeared likely

to contain relevant information.

Therefore, the files in this

box were not examined.

SEC

SENSITI

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 14

---

## Page 15

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

April 30; 1975

MEMORANDUM

TO :

From:

File

Mason Cargill MC

Subject: MONGOOSE MATERIALS RETAINED BY THE CIA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

USOLASSIRIGATION AND/CA

CELLASS OF THIS DOCUMENT

5 Aug

- 14

(1) <0)

B

Joseph Selzer of the Inspector General staff made

available to me all the materials he has been able to assemble

from CIA sources concerning Project MONGOOSE. These consist

of three file. folders and one loose-leaf binder.

I have

examined them to determine if any reference is made to assassi-

nation, liquidation, or elimination of Castro.

The first document in this pile is a copy of the

minutes of the August 10, 1962, meeting of the special group

augmented, prepared by Tom Parrot. They were forwarded to

Dr. Chamberlain, the CIA Inspector General, by Robroy Ratliff,

a CIA employee detailed to the National Security Council. A

cover memo of April 18, 1975, was attached, may be of some

interest, and reads as follows:

"FYI,

We received a request from Belin

of the Vice President's Commission to

examine our files on MONGOOSE and other

Cuban and D.R. files.

While this request

has not been resolved, the preliminary

response is not to allow this access.

Signed Robroy Ratliff."

The minutes of the August 10, 1962, meeting

cöntained no mention, implicit or explicit, of assassination.

The first complete file examined

was a long green

cardboard file without a title on it.

Inside, however, it is

indicated to be a record of Special Group meetings and

ii

SECRET

SENSITI

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 15

---

## Page 16

TOP

SECRET SENSIT

E

- 2 -

Special Group (Augmented) meetings at which General Carter

participated and discussions of Cuba and/or Cuban overflights

during the period August 15 to November 14, 1962.

This file

contains a memorandum dated October 16, 1962, from General

Carter to the Special Group Augmented, Subject:

"Operation

a recruited Cuban agent who has access to a roof overlooking

the embassy) garden and who has volunteered for this mission."

The second file in this collection is entitled

simply "MONGOOSE."

This contains nothing relevant to the

assassination inquiry.

Next in this collection in a large manila

envelope on which is written in ink the following notation:

"Separate cover attachment to ER75-5938."

This envelope

contains miscellaneous papers related to MONGOOSE. The

documents in this envelope contain, among other things found

long list of potential

sabotage targets within Cuba.

no reference to assassination, either explicit or implicit.

The next file examined

is marked. "Cuba Special

Subject." This file also contains miscellaneous papers

relating to Project MONGOOSE, none of which contain any

references to assassination.

The last item of this MONGOOSE package consists

of a bulky loose-leaf binder of papers assembled for General

Carter's reference of significant things that happened during

the period of August to October, 1962. In this notebook, the

Inspector General has already flagged entries which refer in

any way to Operation MONGOOSE. I have examined all such

entries.

POP

SECRET

SENSIT

3IN

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 16

---

## Page 17

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

April 30, 1975

MEMORANDUM

TO :

From:

File

Mason Cargill MC

Subject: PROJECT ZRRIFLE AND QJWIN

On April 25, 1975, I was given three file folders

containing material on the

above subjects by Mr. Joseph Selzer

of the Inspector General's

staff. According to Mr. Selzer, his

review of these files indicates

that the basic purpose of

ZRRIFLE and its asset QJWIN was the burglarization of premises

outside the United States for the purpose of obtaining crypto-

logic materials.

He assures me that there is nothing in these

files which refer explicitly or implicitly to assassination or

"executive action" in any form. His opinion is that clandes-

tine operatives of the type who wrote the documents contained

in these

• files would never commit to writing anything having

to do with the subject of assassination.

The first file reviewed is entitled "ZRRIFLE/QJWIN/

RYBAT OPERATIONAL."

The following entries in this file seem

to have some potential relevance:

(pakad and chief of Station, Luxembourge

Dispatch, dated November 1, 1960, to Chief of Station,

from Chief, KUTUBE/D

at headquarters.

three-page dispatch apparently deals

with a mission on which a recruited agent, Jose Marie Andre

Mankel, will be sent from Luxembourg, where he was recruited,

to Dakar for the purpose of recruiting certain other agents

[om among criminal elements there, specifically Corsicans.

The purpose for which these agents would ultimately be used

is not clear from this dispatch.

However, paragraph 2a reads

as follows: "In view of the extreme sensitivity of the

TOP SECRUI

- SENSITIVE

kp 12 aps 99

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

OSCLASCIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SAMIZED

C 8 Alu,

(1) (4)

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 17

---

## Page 18

TOP SECRET SENSITI

VE

-2-

objective for which we want him to perform his task, he was

not told precisely what we want him to do. Instead, he was

told that we have evidence of Soviet operations among

nationality groups in Africa, specifically, Corsicans, and

that we would like to have him spot, assess, and recommend

some dependable, quick-witted persons for our use.

(Comment:

It was thought best to withhold our

true, specific require-

ments pending the final decision to use MANKEL.) He agreed

to go on the trip for us." It is not clear from this dispatch

that Chiefsof Station in Luxembourg and Dakar) were completely

witting of the purpose for which Mankel if being sent to Dakar.

Paragraph 3 contains the following sentence: "Rabney gave

concerning our purposes as

The remainder of the dispatch deals with details of the con-

tacts with Americans which Mankel may make in Dakar if he

requires further assistance, including instruction for bringing

about a clandestine meeting.

:15-20

2.

Director with the notation:

Cable dated November 2, 1960, from Frankfurt) to th

"Action:

C/FI/D-4. "

This cab

"Leopoldies

contains the following statement in paragraph 1: "Altman mE

Mankel 2 November.

He accepted offer to procede Leopoldvil

may be

Precise mission not conveyed to him, he only informed that

mission might involve large element of personal risk."

3. Cable, dated November! 3, 1960, from Director to

stations at Luxembourg and Dakar).

This cable contains the

first identification of Mankel with the code name QJWIN.

The cable reads as follows:

"AUDW 147 on QJWIN trip Dakar

pouched both stations 3 November.22 Confirm receipt by cable."

20-20 "Luxembourg: will advise when to brief him on Dakar

mission after receipt further info from Altman per paragraph

to FRAN) 6959/ (IN36814) on Leopoldville mission."

This cable

contains the following code word references:

RYBAT, LAURICLE,

ZRACORN .

4. Cable from Leopoldville to Director, with action

to C/FI/D4, dated 5 November 1960. It contains the following

paragraph:

TOP SECRET SENSI

VE

GINV

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 18

---

## Page 19

TOP SECRET SENSI

- 3 -

"Please inform Mankel he should proceed Leopoldville

as soon as shots completed.

Not necessary have Congo visa.

Should go Paris and take Air France flight to Brazzaville

and can obtain visa for Brazzaville in Paris."

This cable contains a handwritten note in the margin as

follows:

"One copy given to Mr. Bissell by IS/Duty Off.

Saturday. Action to be taken by DDP. - E.B."

5. Cable, dated November 9, 1960, to Luxembourg from

Director. It contains the following statement:

"Unless yo

advised to contrary by Altman, brief QJWIN on Dakar mission,

using notes left during Rabney visit...Please insure he

thoroughly rehearsed all details since we anticipate he will

go from Leopoldville to dakar with no opportunity reviewing

briefing..:

6. Cable, November 11, 1960, to Director, from

Luxembourg. Paragraph 2 contains

the following statement:

"QJWIN recommended two French contacts who agree undertake

unspecified job.

Arrangement made for direct access without

QJWIN if Altman interested..."

7: Cable, dated November 12, 1960, to Director, from

Leopoldville.

This cable requests the immediate departure

Of QUWIN for Leopoldville, and contains the following state-

ment: "Local operational

circumstances require immediate

expediting of QJWIN travel to Leopoldville."

The file contains several documents apparently

describing various Italians in the area of Trieste who have

the capability to break and enter and crack safes. They

appeared to be of questionable morality. Reports on the safe-

crackers were transmitted in a dispatch from the Chief of

Station in (Rome) to the Chief, KUDOVE/D:

The names of the d

in question are (Sabatty, (Cuccagna, and Bernardini,

Cable, dated December 8, 1960, from Leopoldville to

the Director.

It indicates that one purpose of QJWIN's

presence in Leopoldville is to recruit a major in the

"Smuggling transaction rose ruline ta parent a

the purpose of collecting information from within the

Yugoslavian government.

TOP SECRET SENSI

VE

seleases

6/10

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 19

---

## Page 20

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

= 4 -

Cable, dated December 14, 1960, from headquarters

to Leopoldville.

Cable con-

tains the following statement:

"Would like restrict JWIN to

activity directly pertinent his mission Leopoldville or forth-

coming mission Dakar and possibly elsewhere (e.g., Milan) for

KUTUBE/D purposes.

He our only asset of this type and we

wish keep him clean of any operational involvement other than

This is the first cable

from headguarters on which the name of William K. Harvey appears.

11. Cable, dated December 17, 1960, from Leopolaville

to Director.

This cable concerned a new asset entering the

picture for the first time, who arrived in Leopoldville on

December 2. The cable states that WIROGUE was the asset with

whom initial contact has been made in Leopoldville.

WIROGUE

is living in the same

hotel as QJWIN with whom he conversed.

QJWIN has

reported:

"WIROGUE had offered him $300 per month

to participate in intel net and be member execution squad.

When QJWIN said he not interested, WIROGUE added there would

be bonuses for special jobs.

later said he working for PBPRIME service.

Under QJWIN questioning, WIROGUE

12. Cable, dated January 19, 1961, from Director to

Luxembourg.

This cable apparently indicates that the Agency

plans to use QJWIN in Leopoldville for more than one particular

mission. It contained the following statement:

"Inform

QJWIN we planning use him Leopoldville indefinitely as dis-

cussed

with him there."

13. There follows a series of cables reflecting the

fact that QJWIN proceeds to Italy to recruit other assets.

One cable admonishes field agents to tell QJWIN not to give

reason to any of the candidates to be recruited in Italy to

believe that ODYOKE or PBPRIME is involved. I get the

impression that ODYOKE refers to the U.S: CIA, and PBPRIME

refers to the intelligence service of some other nation.

However, no document uncovered so far confirms this. Cables

which follow seem to indicate that the people QJWIN was to

recruit were intended to be professional burglars. There is

no indication that they are intended to be assassins.

There

are many other indications that these recruits were intended

for safecracking and breaking and entering. QJWIN told them

he could offer a job for a large firm which wanted certain

commercial documents stolen.

TOP SECRET -

SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 20

---

## Page 21

то?

SECRET SENSIT

VE

= 5 =

14. Subsequent cables and dispatches indicate other

efforts

on the part of QJWIN to recruit safecrackers in

France and Italy.

15. Dispatch dated June 7, 1961, from headguarters,

Chief, KUTUBE/D to the Chief of Station in Luxembourg.

contains a long discussion of the Agency's relationship with

QJWIN and his main purpose as an agent.

This dispatch makes

it clear that the primary purpose of QJWIN's employment by

the Agency is to recruit burglars and safecrackers for use

by the CIA.

This dispatch contains the first reference I

have found to the code word ZRRIFLE.

The one thing that seems

rather unclear is why QJWIN was initially sent to Leopoldville,

and apparently was contemplated to return to Leopoldville, when

all of his recruiting of safecrackers and burglars takes place

in Europe.

The fact that his return to Leopoldville was con-

templated may be easily seen from paragraph one of this cable.

The releasing officer on this cable was Mr. William K. Harvey.

16.

Correspondence and cables indicate that one James

Rabney from CIA headquarters visited Europe in April and

March of 1961 for the purpose of meeting with Mankel to discuss

possible recruits for safecracking operations.

Station in Luxembourg to Headquarters, Chief, KUTUBE/D.

discusses the efforts of QJWIN to recruit two safecrackers in

Switzerland. dIt indicates that two French citizens, name

b Santelli and (Garioni) were asked to come to Switzerland under

false pretenses by QJWIN for the purpose of being interviewed,

The following passage in the dispatch indicates clearly these

men were to be recruited for the purpose of the safecracking

and surreptitious entry. "During the interview with (Santelli),

06 Garioni observed that for a night job he would neea an

assistant to help him with carrying the equipment and to act

as lookout.

He said he would prefer to do the job during

working hours; for this he would get three or four others to

help him and force someone in the office to open the safe."

18. Dispatch dated February 2, 1962, from Chief of

Station Luxembourg to Headguarters, Chief, KUTUBE/D. It

discusses the efforts of the Luxembourg station to provide

acceptable cover for Mankel in Germany, where the Agency has

TOP

SECRET SENSITIVE

4/N

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 21

---

## Page 22

TOP SECRET SENSITI

- 6 -

decided to locate him.

The plan

seems to be for Mankel to

develop a business as an art dealer in some German town selling

French paintings.

It is contemplated that the Agency will

supply the initial capital for the formation of his business.

The final sentence in this dispatch asked headquarters for

projected operational plans for QJWIN.

19. Cable, dated March 17, 1962, from Director to

Luxembourg indicates that the Agency still contemplates

activity for Mankel in Leopoldville. Paragraph 2 of this cable

reads as

follows:

"Tell him will at same time discuss

Leopoldville assignment and have him sign contract."

The

cable directs Luxembourg to tell Mankel to meet James Rabney

at certain locations in Germany on the 28th and 29th of March,

1961, telling him to be prepared to travel in Europe for about

two weeks.

20. Cable dated April 18, 1962, from'Headquarters to

Luxembourg states that another agent (@JBANNER-5) had informed

the Agency that QJWIN is going on trial after Easter on charges

of cobalt smuggling from 1957 or 1958 and could receive up to a

six-year sentence.

Paragraph 2 of the cable states, "Please

contact QuWIN for ald details including specific charges and

name prosecutor. If, QJBANNER-5) info true we may wish attempt

quash charges or arrange somehow salvage QJWIN for our purposes."

Paragraph

3 states, "Still do not have basic decisions but

fully anticipate we will need QJWIN."

21. Cable, dated April 26, 1962, from Luxembourg to

Headquarters indicates that JWIN's trial will be completed on

April 29.

He expects to be fined but not subject to a jail

sentence. Some indication of the Agency's intents with

respect to JWIN may be discerned from paragraph 4 which

reads as follows:

"While we do not know present long-term

plans for QJWIN, he has no lead to other candidates.

His

potential appears restricted activation to candidates OLLA:

1426 or personal spot action.

Suggest either could be done

from Leopold base and question if not preferable move him to

Leopold assignment now."

There is

a handwritten notation

beside the first sentence of paragraph 4 which states,

"Not

the point."

Beside the last sentence of this paragraph is

the handwritten notation, "How?"

TOP SECRET

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 22

---

## Page 23

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

- 7-

22. Cable dated May 24, 1962, to Luxembourg from

Headguarters

indicates that the Agency has changed its plans

about assigning QJWIN any duties in Leopoldville.

Paragraph 2

reads, "Decision made keep QJWIN Europe.

Leopoldville assign-

ment canceled."

Cable also indicates that headquarters

approves of Mankel's proposed move to Germany, probably

Baden-Baden.

23. Memorandum dated July 3, 1962, WKH Ipresumably

William K. Harvey] from AMS, re ZRRIFLE.

This memo discusses

possible future uses for QJWIN. It seems perfectly consistent

with the use of WIN merely for the purpose of recruiting

safecrackers and burglars.

Paragraph 4 of this memo refers to

some ZRRIFLE authorization paper:

"I have already given you

the ZRRIFLE authorization paper signed by Helms and Skip has

been given QJWIN contract, including the extension to 1

March 1963."

An attachment to this memorandum gives details

on two possible candidates for burglary and safecracking. In

this attachment there are two references, however, which

may

be somewhat disturbing:

One candidate is stated to be "willing

to use gun"; the second "wanted to know if he should be armed

for job--ready to go to the end."

24. Immediately following a dispatch dated

December 7, 1962, from Luxembourg

to headquarters, there

appears in the files two pages of penciled notes on yellow

"buck-slip" type paper which are difficult to read but may

be relevant.

At the top of the first page appears the word

QJWIN.

On this page appears the following words, which are

barely legible:-""In 1961 by Bill H or Bissell used Arnold

astale lor Estate)direct action capability established ins

B [illegible] QJWIN Luxembourg principal prelim capability

for fourth country. QJWIN spotted three or four--moved to

Italy..."

25. Dispatch from Luxembourg to Headguarters Chief,

KUTUBE, dated February 14, 1964, indicates that JWIN has

been

terminated. Paragraph 1 reads in part, "QJWIN has been

terminated. "Rozeney told him on 21 April that the operation

in which he was to play a role had been shelved and therefore

his contract, which ran out on 29 February, was not renewed.

He was reassured that this action did not result from anything

he had done and his past cooperation was appreciated.

It was

mentioned as conceivable that the operation might have been

off and running if he had been able to establish his cover

last year."

TOP SECRET

SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 23

---

## Page 24

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

- 8 -

Another file examined was

entitled "ZRRIFLE

Administrative/Financial"; it is a long manila-type file.

The following items of possible interest were noted in this

file:

1. Memorandum dated January 11, 1961, to the Finance

Division from

William K. Harvey, Chief FI/D deals with the

payments for Mankel's trip to Leopoldville.

Paragraph 2 of

this memo states, "In order to avoid any misunderstanding,

completed. Although future use of QJWIN is not precluded, it

was not deemed fitting during this one use of him to enter

into a continuing contractual relationship or to have him sign

any memorandum of understanding."

2: Memorandum, dated January 31, 1961, for Chief,

Accounts Branch, Finance Division, from Justin E. O'Donnell,

Subject: Payments to QJWIN.

Paragraph 1 of this memorandum reads

as follows:

"QWIN was recruited in Frankfurt 1 November 1960

to undertake a one-shot mission to the Belgian Congo. Because

the mission potentially involved great personal risk to him

and he was obliged to separate himself from his business affairs,

it was agreed orally by this writer with QJWIN that his com-

pensation would be at the rate of $1,000 per month, plus his

expenses, for a period of not less than one month and not more

These two financial memoranda, numbers l and

2 here, seem to indicate a one-shot purpose for QJWIN in con-

nection with a Congo operation, which seems inconsistent with

many of the papers in the operational file reviewed above,

which indicated an ongoing relationship with JWIN for the

purposes of recruiting safecrackers and burglars. These

Ilnancial memoranda are certainly quite consistent with a plan

to use QuWIN for a one-shot assassination attempt in the

Belgian Congo. It is unclear that merely recruiting safe-

crackers and burglars or even performing safecracking and

burglary missions, would have involved "potential great

personal risk" to

QJWIN.

3. Memorandum, dated March 24, 1961, for Cable

Secretariat from William K. Harvey, Chief, FI/Division D,

subject:

"Distribution of ZRRIFLE Traffic."

Paragraph 1

of this memorandum reads, "Two copies of all cables bearing

the RRIFLE indicator are to be delivered in a sealed envelope

, ';

TOP SECRET - SENSIT

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 24

---

## Page 25

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE.

- 9 -

directly to Chief, FI/Division D, 1502 L Building. No other

distribution is to be made without the specific approval in

each instance of the Chief, FI/D."

Paragraph 2 reads, "The

above has been personally approved by the Deputy Director

(Plans)."

I question whether such close handling of cable

traffic

is not unusual even in a case involving safecracking

and burglary.

Perhaps Harvey intended traffic of more

sensitive issues to be passed

1 through the ZRRIFLE channel.

4.

In a large manila envelope filed immediately

after a dispatch to Luxembourg from the Chief, KUTUBE, dated

September 30, 1963, is a large manila envelope marked

"Documents in Receipt Supporting ZRRIFLE Activities."

Within

this envelope are several smaller manila envelopes, one of

which is entitled "ZRRIFLE, Receipts for Accounting Submitted

by WK Harvey, Receipt for Operational Phone Calls May 15, 1963."

Within this

envelope are two sheets of yellow legal size paper

which contain lists of operational expenses submitted by W.K.

Harvey covering the period April 13-21, 1963, all of which are

to be charged as operational expenses

to QJWIN/ ZRRIFLE.

These

expenses cover hotel expenses in Miami and Perine, Florida,

long distance hotel calls for these locations, plus $75 for a

boat chartered for operational purposes at Islamorada, Florida.

A hotel receipt indicates Harvey paid the bill of a Mr. John A.

Wallston of 56510 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California,

for the nights of April 17, 18, and 19, and a Miami hotel,

probably the Eden Roc.

These documents are the first indication

of any activities within the U.S. with respect to ZRRIFLE.

Apparently they did not involve JWIN but rather other

activity, perhaps directed at Cuba because of his location in

Miami.

Perhaps Harvey should be confronted with this listing

and asked to explain it.

A third file was examined, which was marked "ZRRIFLE- "

QJWIN Project/Contract. The following items of interest were

found:

1. A long memorandimwritten in ink' in longhand on sheets

of yellow, legal size paper at the very back of this file

entitled "Project ZRRIFLE." This is apparently justification

material submitted for the project.

The first portion of this

memorandum seems to end abruptly at the end of the second page:

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 25

---

## Page 26

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

- 10-

perhaps the subsequent pages are missing.

These first to

pages portray the objective of ZRRIFLE to be that of pro-

curement of code and cipher materials by burglary and safe-

cracking.

However, subsequent pages, particularly the last

four legal size pages in this file, contain what appears to

be the outline of something which could be the establishment

of an "executive action capability," although these words are

not mentioned nor is the word "assassination."

A copy of these

pages should definitely be obtained.

Paragraph I of these

pages reads as follows,

problems; political nonattributability.

"Legal, ethical, moral, operational

in part: "Our own experience (Bangkok) (and affect on DDP)

and experiences with KGB...require most professional, proven

operationally competent ruthless stable CE experience ops

officers...

Paragraph 3 of this memo is entitled "Maximum Security";

subparagraph 3b reads:

"Within KUBARK one focal point for

control, search, tracing, case officering, etc.

DDP authority

in this focal point mandatory. DCI officially advised?"

Paragraph 3c reads as follows: "Max. security cable COMMO

for innocuous cables only; no restrictions on travel; pos-

sibility of one man overseas (Europe) control base with own

(nonstation) COMMO. Word of mouth and no bashfulness re

trips."

Paragraph

3f reads as follows, "No use of any agent

who ever worked for a U.S. government agency. Tracing by

opposition would reveal.". Paragraph 3i reads,

"Pretext:

KUTUBE/D search; this established

(e.g., Rome)." Paragraph 3j

Paragraph 3k reads,

"NO

Paragraph 4 reads:

"Blackmail:

No American citizens or residents or people

whoever obtained U.S. visas. B.

No chain of connections:

Strictly person to person; singleton ops. C. No meeting any

candidate in home territory.

D. Exclude organizations; e.g,

Sicilians, criminals, those with record of arrest, those with

instability of purpose as criminals.

E. Staffers involved--

selection."

Paragraph 5 reads, "Cover:

Planning should

include provision for blaming Soviets or Czechs in case of

blow. "

This seems to indicate ZRRIFLE is not limited to

burglary of embassies; how could you blame the soviets or

the Czechs for burglarizing their own embassies?] Paragraph

9 reads, "Should have phoney 201 in records to backstop this

Ireferring to blaming the Soviets or the Czechs], all documents

therein forged and backdated.

Should look like a CE' file."

Paragraph 11 reads, "Silverthorne."

TOP SECRET.

SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 26

---

## Page 27

TOP

SECRET - SENSITIVE

- 11 -

On the following page of these papers, the paragraphs

are numbered again from one.

On this page a large ink X has

been placed over the page; however, it is still legible.

Paragraph I of this page reads, "Maximum security plus within

KUBARK only (e.g., How much does Sivagusal?] now know?).

Limitation on number code clerks for enciphering and deciphering.

Guise of LAURICLE objective."

Paragraph 5 reads, "No chain

of connections permitting blackmail."

2. Memorandum, dated February 19, 1962, from Richard

Helms, Deputy Director (Plans), to William K. Harvey, Subject:

"Authorization of ZRRIFLE Agent Activities.

This memorandum

authorizes Harvey to retain the services of agent QJWIN

such other principal agents and subagents as may be required."

Memorandum does not state the purpose of the ZRRIFLE project.

3. Filed immediately after a memorandum dated March 6,

1969, from Richard Helms to William K. Harvey, is a normal

business size white envelope containing the folloving notation

on the front in penciled handwriting, "Lloyd very personal

from Bill H."

of paper containing the following notation in penciled hand-

writing, "John Rosselli, alias John Ralston--Wm.

Walker."

4. A memorandum dated June 27, 1963, for Chief,

Foreign Intelligence, from William K. Harvey, Subject: QJWIN.

This memo states that QJWIN is currently not being used for

any operational purposes.

It discusses whether or not he

shoula be retained as an agent.

Paragraph 2 seems to indicate

that the executive action portion of QWIN's project, if any,

has been terminated.

This paragraph reads:

"As far as the

ZRRIFLE aspects of this operation

which has been covered under

the QWIN authorization for security reasons and with which

Fletcher M. Knight is fully faniliar as I orall lateline, you

on June 26, 1963, except for one precautionary

aspects of this case have been terminated and need no longer,

except perhaps for minor accountings, be considered as a part

of this project."

A last file of the ZRRIFLE series examined is entitled

"ZRRIFLE Name Traces/Personality Sketches." Items of interest

in this file are as follows: .

SECRET SENSITIVE

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 27

---

## Page 28

TOP SECRET SENSIT

- 12 -

VE

1. Piece of thin white paper under tab C, the heading

of which is "Secret-RYBAT.

This document is a list of traits

which desired recruits would have. This is similar to the

list of traits deemed desirable in the handwritten memorandum

contained in the far rear of the previous file reviewed.

set of characteristics, however, could refer to burglars and

safecrackers as well as assassins.

i refer to burglars and s

This is indicated by

paragraph & which reads, "Commercial firms (unspecified) --

industrial documents cover."

06

Meltzer) a resident of Los Angeles, with a long criminal

Included under tab M is a dossier of one Harold

This is the first instance in which I have noted

a U.S. citizen under consideration for any recruitment with

respect to the ZRRIFLE project.

06

3. Under tab I, information on orlando Portale), an

Italian citizen residing in Detroit, is included.

06

4 .

At tabY is

a page of information on one Hanna

Yazbeck! The report states, "He often heads up a hatchet

squad when disputes arise between the Moslem and Christian

underworld factions in Beirut."

The second paragraph of this

page reads

as follows:

"During the period' I was in Europe

(1950-1958), his chief bodyguard was & convicted murderer who

owed his release from prison to Yazbeck)s power.

This body-

guard has since been murdered, but (Yazbeck) has an available

pool of assassins."

TOP

SECRET

SENSITIVE

5/N

NW 78141

Docld:32201331 Page 28

---

