# 144-10001-10127

## Page 1

ATE: 01/13/9

AGE:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10127

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: N0078

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

LOWMAN

DAVID

TO : PDASOFD (INTEL>

TITLE :

SSCSGO QUERIES

JATE :

01/26/76

AGES

11

SUBJECTS

INVESTIGATION, WARREN COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

MENORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

1B

P

: 11/12/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

: -

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, BEN

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR.

---

## Page 2

REV, DR

OF SECRET

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: N0078

26 January 1976

ANOLa 818 0189

Released pursuant

to Recutive Ordes

24176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC

MEK, JR

THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

TOP SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY

OF DEFENSE (INTELLIGENCE)

SUBJECT:

Senate Select Committee Queries to NSA Concerning

the Warren Commission

Reference your letter dated 14 January 1976 transmitting

a request from Mr. Alton Quanbeck of the Senate Select

Committee Staff. The following information is provided in

response to Mr.

Quanbeck's letter, keyed by paragraph to

his letter (inclosed - see underlined portions).

Most of

the information was made available to the SSC Staff, Mr.

Jim Johnson, during an interview with Dr. Louis Tordella

on 20 January 1976.

Para. 1. - NSA requested permission to retain

photocopies of those reports on which we had worked merely

as record copies of our efforts on behalf of the Commission.

It was felt that if a question should arise at that time

concerning what analytic efforts had been involved and the

number of manhours expended, a record copy would prove useful.

No operational use was made

of these documents except to

hold them on file for a period of time which cannot now be

determined. To the best of our present knowledge, the photo-

copies have now been destroyed.

Absolutely no results

relevant to the assassination were obtained through NSA's

analytic look at the exhibits. The Commission, in the person

of Mr. Allan Dulles, had asked Dr. Tordella, informally, to

review the exhibits

for any secret writing or codes which

might have

been contained in the documents.

DI. Tordella,

after causing a careful review of the documents by NSA crypt-

analysts, reported verbally to Mr. Dulles and other Commission

members that nothing whatsoever had been achieved by the

analytic effort. No written reply was submitted.

Classifed by DIRNSA/CHOOS (NSS/CSSM 123-2)

Exempt from G2S. ED 21078, C=i-

Declassify Upon Neilleacon Ny the

Criginator

TOP SECRET

APPENDED DOCUMENTS CONTAIN

CODEWORD MATERIAL

MANIBLE VIA GO/IT 0118FLS ONLY

---

## Page 3

DF S33241

Serial: N0078

Para. 2. - NSA is uncertain as to what is precisely

meant by these comments, but we assume that the comments on

names refer to our biographic files which are maintained on

foreign personalities of potential intelligence significance.

As the Committee knows, these biographic files are maintained

(now at CIA incidentally) as analytic support. It is also

possible that the Commission was referring to the fact that

names are frequently seen in traffic collected for foreign

intelligence purposes and therefore NSA might have access

to foreign names not otherwise available to the Intelligence

Community.

Para. 3. - It may well be that CIA did obtain such

transmissions

and pass them to NSA for analysis, but no one

presently working that analytic area recalls such a request.

Discussions with Dr. Tordella also failed to shed any light

on this subject. There are no files or records which we have

• are to do red,

been able to locate from that time frame which would sub-

stantiate such a claim.

In fact, the only file the responsible

analytic group has been able to locate concerning a request

from the Warren Commission deals with a file compiled from

open sources citing major dates in the last months of Oswald's

Presumably the date file was to be compared with NSA

product on/about the key dates in the hope that something

could be deduced. The file does not contain any "hits."

The analysts who performed this effort have since retired.

Para. 4. - The informal request from Mr. Dulles is

the known total extent of NSA's role in assisting in the

investigation. The file discussed in Paragraph 3 is the only

file thus far recovered.

There is no information which can

now be identified which was developed from Cuban or Soviet

transmissions relating to the assassination.

Para. 5. - We have no information on this subject

at all.

However, pursuant to the subject raised during the

Tordella interview, we have searched our files manually,

and as Mr. Lowman agreed during the Tordella interview, we

have recovered three product reports (Inclosures 2 through

4) which show that Cuban military forces did go on alert

immediately after the assassination.

There is no SIGINT

evidence, however, that the Cuban forces were alerted prior

to the assassination, thereby suggesting that they had prior

knowledge of the event.

2

Released pursuant to

TOP

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

SEN. REK,

AND

THE

REV.

DR.

MLK,

JR.

RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES JET.

.... *

---

## Page 4

P SECRET

Serial: N0078

Para. 6. - No hard copy material of any kind was

provided to the Commission (see Para. 1) •

andOtermen

DAVID D. LOWMAN

Special Assistant

to the Director

for Congressional Reviews

4 Incls:

a/s

TOP SECRET

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC, THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JPK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

HANDLE VIA CORNET CASTLE BELS

---

## Page 5

Serial: N0078

CC:

DIR

(Less Incls)

D/DIR

ESS

"

ESS/R

ESS, Mr. Lowman

G, Mr. Peksa

NCRDEF

A, Miss Caracristi (Less Incls)

L221

M/R: Inclosures 2 through 4 are product reports numbered

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63, 2/0/CUN/R196-63 and 2/0/CUJ/R58-63.

33 costumer

• Foster/0/ESS/3161s/26 Jan 76/kjb

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN. REX, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR.

---

## Page 6

REFERRED TO

OFFICE

TOP SECRET

CONTROL NO. 208

R2132

RECEIVED

RELEASED

SEEN RY

SIGNATURE

[DATE) TINE

DATE TIME

NAME A OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

Handle Via Indicated Controls

COMINT

Access to this document will be restricted to those persons

cleared for the specific projects;

WARNING

This document contoins informotion affecting the national security of the United Stotes within the meoning of

the espionage lows U. S. Code Title 18, Sections 793, 794 and 798.

The low prohibits its transmission or the

revelation of its contents in ony monner to an unauthorized person, as well of its use in ony manner prejudiciol

to the safety or interest of the United Stotes or for the benefit of any foreign government to the detriment of

the United States. It is to be seen only by personnel especially indoctrinated ond authorized to receive in-

formation in the designoted control chonnels, Its recurity must be maintained in occordonee with regulotions

pertorning to the BYEMAN nad Communications Intelligence Controls, No action is l0 he loken on any com•

municotions intelligence which moy be contained herein, regordless of the odontogs to be goined, il such

action might hove the effect of revooling the existence and noture of the souree, unless such oction is first

approved by the appropriate authority.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS, OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS

SEN. REX, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR.

OF PRES. JER.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

PRANK CHURCH, IDAMO, CHAINLAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAG, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. MAHT, MICH.

HOWARD H. WAKEN, JR.,

W Wir

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. KUDDLESTON, MY.

нОвени МОНФАн, НіС

RICHARD MEGMAKE AMO. HANDE

RICHARO S. SCHIVEIKER, PA.

A: * IELS

SARY HART. COLO.

United States Senate

WILLIAM E MILLER. STAFP DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. 0. SCHWARZ, IRA CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS A. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO 4. AES. II, DITH CONGRESS).

WASHINGTON. D.G. 20510

January 13, 1976

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer

Special Assistant to the Secretary

U. S. Department of Defense

Washington, D. C. 20301

Dear Tom:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation of

the assassination of President Kennedy, we earlier received

to certain questions put to NSA.

Since then we have

examined other material pertaining to NSA's contribution to

the Warren Commission's investigation and we desire further in-

formation from NSA.

By way of background for this request, we note the Warren

Commission provided NSA various documents and asked NSA to re-

view them for any cryptological significance. NSA found no

cryptological significance and its report of this fact was pub-

lished by the Commission.

By letter of July 10, 1964, (a copy of which is attached)

Mr. Rankin provided General Blake a copy of certain documents

reguested by DI. Tordella for NSA's files. Since NSA's analysis

of the documents was apparently completed at the time of Rankin's

letter .

we wish to know why NSA wanted to keep these documents

for its file.

Further, we wish to know what use, if any, was

made of these documents and what results relevant to the assassina-

tion were obtained from such use.

In a Commission staff internal memorandum,

discussing

documents provided NSA, it is reported that NSA is "primarily

interested in names,"

and NSA claims it has

"information on names

which the CIA does not have."

Assuming these statements are ac-

curate, we wish to know what significance such names would have.

1-55C Entell act

EXIME FROM COBERAL DESLASSIFICATON

AUIOMITICAELY DEECESSIEIRO ON

Insissible to Detersene

HANDLE VIA COMET CHANNELS

furlace sopose ale nosed date or ercat)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC, THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

RIK, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR,

---

## Page 8

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer

January 13, 1976

'age Two

HANDLE VIA COMINI CHANNELS

to NSA and whät information on names NSA had that CIA did not.

If names had significance, what names did NSA use in its analysis?

3.

We are informed that CIA obtained transmissions from the

Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for November or December 1963 and

that it may have passed these to NSA for analysis.

Did NSA IE-.

ceive these transmissio"Did it analyze them?

of any transmissions relevant to the

assassination inquiry?

What were the re-

sults of its analysis?

4.

We are interested in learning the extent of NSA's role in

assisting in the investigation of the assassination.

In that

Committee access to those files. Please provide the staff with

a summary of all information NSA developed from Cuban or Soviet

transmissions relating to the assassination.

We have been informed that after the assassination the

Cuban government instructed 'its embassies and consulates to re-

turn all files on Oswald to Cuba. What information does NSA

on whether such instructions were issued?

6. In connection with the answers to questions 4 and 5, please

indicate whether such material

and provide copies of all documents evidencing!

was provided the Warren Commission

that fact.

We would appreciate receiving a response to these questions •

as soon as possible and to expedite this inquiry we are sending

a copy of this letter to Mr. Foster of NSA.

Sincerely,

al

Alton H. Quanbeck

cc: Frank Foster

WON REASONED 3A

sole une or purel

Impossible to Fetes mine

Conless soup.

MARIDE VIA COMES CHANNES

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC,

THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES, JEE

SEN, RFK, AND THE REV. DR MIK, JR.

---

## Page 9

NSA

JR: R11/ bjc

7/7/64

JUL 1 0 1964

Director. Matlonal Securitx Aseng*.

fort George 0. leade, Maryland

Dear General Blake:

In regard to Dr. Tordello'a request, tho lational

S curity Agency le authorized to keep for its file the following

photographic copies of itena which have been used by the

Cosmiusion in its investigation:

(2) Commission Exhibit 31

(2) Commiesion Exhibit 15

(3) Commission Exhibit 104

(4) Colt18310n Eühibit 18

(5) Typeuritten versich of Commission Exhibit 24

(6) F. B. I. Items A-2, A-6

(7) F. B. I. 1tems 137, 152

Thank you for the cooperation and asslatance sou

have rendered tho Commission.

Sincerely.

SIGNED

J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

RECI

i fusio

cc: Kr. Rankin

Mr. Willens

Mr. Mosk

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS, OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 10

Peridi l mpy

SECRET KIMBO

$/0,

H963

WTEC

Chác

CEjo

USXS

of rsoarylms. Guner

ports iiry

* oei a gore

• TOTHAR+CLADE-PCOLS SeE

soptcitin

Thơ Catinas

Basdquer turp: fs Ma

F50s 27 to. 20 Hrme

IneLana wäle frclie

PỤTOYEO

grrad Elring end ll fciraezen

xupoctcd co iro bekn obesioed;

vato anc 11mt: (Len: (21561077/230-63);

a aubbo

RiVai

Saled:

rait.

Tho

D8/ akr. to

Latorpatlot Nas

4S:"!• Tagso CouTcea

trel a

Reloaand pursuant to Executivo Qednr 14176, DECILSS OF RECORDS CONC

REX.

AND THE REV.

DR

MLK, 38.

T8& ASSASSTHATIONS OF

SEN

---

## Page 11

SECRET KIMBO

2/07 CO/9196-63

25 Nov 63/18152

ST 250?T

ALEICE IN PASTER RAVAL DISTRICT PITARED, 23 NOVELBER

As a reals de the death of fausteent kesor, she Lastern

:3144 PM

Ac 2037z on 23 Povester, too alert mi relerod a cortala

degace by Buses; Inntrechong beroipaynod, to Santiago do Cobs, :

a subordaicto, to alve leuva so 25. percent of their paracel:

fox the 22td. and Zach and They farther oders would be forthcoming

en 25 goracter 1963,

H55da7: 25 Lovebon Indicates har a nosyrachs, vien

as buse adopted Cor the alcuattan by cibue Nevali

rotto legin tha fritero Baval Lastrict:

(4)) (2/281/c2x/207-83, 2/05/CAM/956531656, 5367-6355

Released pursuant Do Executive Order 14176,

REK,

DECLASS

AND THE REV,

DR

MEN,

DE RECORDS CONC

ISSASSINATIONS

SEN

---

## Page 12

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/CUJ/R58-63

26 Nov 63 20197.

DIST: 0/MA

ST 250

ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERMIHATED

The alert in Orlente Provinco (see 2/0/CUN/R196-63) fa be-

Ieved to be teralgated.

The alert, apparently prospted by

President KEEDY's death on 22 Nozeaber, was possibly pre-

schedaled to teratnate on

25 Novezher.

There have been suo orders

which mugsest chic cho alert was destined ta be concluded on

25 November; they are:

Access to the Coasta! Ubservation Post at Punta

KaLst (20-15N

74-CSW) was restricted until 25 Kovember because

of che alert (see 2/@S/CUN/R667-63); and

2) Subordinates of Bipes, Readquerters Paster liaval

District, were to recelve further arders on the 25ch, presumably

corceming, their alert status (2/0/CI*/1196-63); no such ordero

have been noted In commur leaziong.

These have been no further references In Intercepted commanl-

It is possible chas the rescricted access to the Observation

Post at Purta Yalsi extends to other Observarion Tosts in Oriente

Provinca sucle as reported on 2) Novesher when Plest Aray Coastal

Observation Posts vere placed In an alect status

(2L 2: 10184/3188-R7), 2ud that the restriction was to be lifted on

25 Tiprenter by all those posts.

Furthe: Indlestion that the alert has terinated is che

fact

Chat the Coan Navy was engaged In an island-vide coltranieat Lons

excretse on 25 forecher.

It Is considered unlikely that such an

exercise sould be cunducted uner alert cordittons.

There haun been me funer irferences to the alert

of che (D percent Santlago de Cuen) units which was Mrst ub-

second ga 28 Movesber (2/31./CUA/205-63)-

111 GRAF and Soviet

Enrces Cuta cosountettons eppent to bo rocal during this

Po:10d, 22-26 lovealer 1953.

1T. DAM PRU: GG 29K MAU

Sm14

Released puzsuant

R2K,

AND TIE REV.

DK

Exegutiva Order 14176,

DECLASS OF RECORDS CONC

MIM,

ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES

---

