# 144-10001-10377

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879113

DOC ROSECRET MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-----

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10377

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

USA

FROM

USM-701

TO

ROMEO/CHARLIE

TITLE

REFERENCES TO OSWALD IN TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN WEST GERMANY AN

PAGES : 91/03/64

SUBJECTS :

SWALD, LEE HARVEY

DOCUMENTATIOE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

X

: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[RI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1, X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879113

Doc Ref ID: A4269434

< NNNN ZCZCNAB8 93P# 29 ASB 354

RR YEKAAH YEKADD YEKADL YEKADN YEKNDK YWQALA

D

W DE YENAAS 9gA @3/1551Z JAN

_ ZZK RR ARA NRL DE

U)

531420Z

< R

•EM USM 7B1

• TO ROMEO/CHARLIE

≤ YNANZE / DAD BERLIN

• ZEN /NSAEUR DET FKFT

ZOM

ASIER ES SABRE

11-

n 2X/R/QOF/T 81 - 64

RPT

ACESA

610-0603-3

453598

onage Laws,

Tilte

on is

prohibited

18, l. S. C.,

by low.

THIS FORM FOR INTERNAL AGENCY USE ONLY

CASSIFIED WORK SHEET

2X/R/QOF/T B8-64,

SECRET R/94-64

REFERENCE TO OSWALD IN TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN WEST

GERMANY AND USSR•

FR: 6(B PERCENT FRANKFURT MAIN > & MR. LEO ((A))

WTOS MOSCOW: (&B PERCENT SCHOEDEL)), ((A))

(TELEPHONE NUMBER 974370

¿"AUDITOR'S TRANSLATION»

FR& (IMG) WOULD YOU LIKE TO (XMG) FROM WHOM I FOR WHOM I

Released pursuant

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

This work slicel conteins intormation offecting the National Defence of the United States within the meaning of the

Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission or the reselation of which in ony monder to an unauthorized

---

## Page 3

"CAUDITOR"S TRANSLATION'S

Doc ID: 6879113-

Doc Ref ID: A4269434

FR& (MG) WOULD YOU LIKE TO (XMG) FROM WHOM I FOR WHOM I

- ( XMG)

"•*OH, YOU MEAN BECAUSE OF OSWALD?

и MO.

<• * EXACTLY®

TER.

U

MO• YES, MRO LEO, I HAVE THE FOLLOWING TO TELL YOU ABOUT

THAT• I HAD TH IDEA IMMEDIATELY WHEN I HEARD THA HE

HAD (AMG) IN MINSK•

JERA YES, YES.

MO. YOU KNOW THAT ONE WITHOUT P34.84489, (XMG)

FR: (XMG) THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY THOUGHT HERE.

OMO& I BELIEVE A CORRESPONDING APPLICATION NOW LIES•..

UFRE 14 DAY (XMG) STILL NO ANSWERO

MO& (XMG) AT THE FOREIGN MINISTRY• THEY TOLD ME THAT IT STILL

LAS NOT DECIDED (XMG) IT IS (XMG) PERSONALLY I HAVE NO

¿MORE GREAT HOPE AFTER THE THINGS (XMG) ARE. THEY HAVE BEEN

JOF COURSE, ALSO THE DOCUMENTS....

NR: YESO

MOS DELIVERED (XMG). SI LL PLACES GREAT VALUE HERE ON THE

FACT THAT SOMEONE INMINSK THERE (XMG)

FR& (XMG) TO WET IS TO BE DONE.

AMOS YES, THAT WOULD DEPEND ON WHAT COMES OF IT, THRUE? BUT...

NR: YOS•

IMMMA AS A MATTÃO ME DOTNATDIE T MOTIM SAY MES CIANIVA.

Released pursuant to

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS

REK, AND THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

This wod. heet contai, indomation

affecting

flie

Secions 793.

794

798, ihc

transmoron

Natiemd Dafense of the Unided States within the

meaning of the Espionage

Lows, Title

thie:

revelation of which in any manner to

unauthorized person is

prohibiled by

---

## Page 4

-MOX 1Y B870 THAT WOULD DEPENDROND:WHAPAZUMES OF IT, THRUE? BUT...

iNR: YES•

IMMMC AS A MATTER OF PRINCIPLE I WOULD SAY

"YES, GLADLY".

14: WELL, GOOD• SHALL WE LEAVE IT THEN AS IT IS? THAT YOU

PLEASE LET US KNOW SHEN YOU (ING)

¿MO: THE FIRST MOMENT I HEARD YOUR VOICE, I THOUGHT IT WAS THE

BIG WHEEL IN PER ON•

N

J GC

, 9, DOES HE SPEAK LIKE THAT?

= MO: 634, IT SOUNDS ANYWAY IN MOSCOW IT SOUNDS VERY SIMILAR:

FR: THAT IS HOWEVER. • 6)-788534)

MO BUT GIVE HM MY REGARDS

_ 14: THANK YOU•

=MO: (/&) HEAT, •40 >390 ((B))

TE(A)) NOT IDINTIFIED

)

8&B>) VERY POOR AUDIBILITY. TRANSLATION SUBMITTED WITH

PRESERVE.

OFFICE: 1009.692803

This work sheet contains information allecting the Mationol Defense of the Wiled States willin The mo

Seclions 793, 794 and 798, the transmiacion or the revolation of slich in any manner lo

THIS FORM FOR INTERNAL AGENCY USE ONLY

CLASSIFIED WORK SHEET

CP - 1 /

438435

n

MS

980

ER

CN --

PA

& ( GERMAN) )

TI D2 JAN 64 0808Z

W/R/QOF/T 01 - 64

49984-64

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

