# 144-10001-10320

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879003

Do TOP SEGRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10320

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

HCF

TITLE

3/0/ITD/T3652-63 POLAND MOURNS DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

PAGES : 22/09/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DASSMFNCATYOR : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT®

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

IRJ

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

"Doc ID: 6879003

Italian

Doc Ref ID: A4269341

TOP SECRET DINAR

ITDO

WS 30818

3/0/ ITD/T3652-63

IS 09 Dec 2155Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

POLAND MOURNS DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Warsaw: AILLAUD

TO Rome: Foreign Ministry

Msg No: 1340

25 Nov 63

-=

The dramatic (1 gr G] of KENNEDY (B val made) an immense

impression and (B val caused) profound grief in Poland. An

impressive line of citizens, including military personnel in

uniform, went to sign the register displayed in the American

Embassy. Many, expecially women, carried bouquets of flowers.

which they left at the foot of the table [1 gr G] the big

register.

The procession; which started again today, lasted yester-

day and the day before yesterday from the early hours of the

morning until around midnight.

Radio, television, and the press gave lengthy comments

on the late president, reporting his biography and stressing

his intellectual qualities, poise, and courage, not hiding the

concern over the grave loss.

Poland will be represented at the

funeral by Professor STANISLAW KULCZYNSKI, Vice Chairman of the

Council of State, and [1 gr U] (B val PIOTSZEWICZ), Vice Chair-

man of the Council of Ministers; while Prime Minister CYRANKIEWICZ,

accompanied by RAPACKI, went to the United States Embassy in

Warsaw

to present the

condolences of the Polish Government.

As

for the Italian Embassy in Warsaw, immediately on Friday even-

ing, as soon as I heard the news, I telegraphed the United States

Ambassador to express my profound condolences and those of all

my associates. [1 gr G] Saturday morning in addition I sent to

Ambassador CABOT a letter of condolence expressing the same

sentiments. Today I shall attend in the cathedral with all the

Italian

3/0/ IT5/73652-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND

THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6879003

--

Doc Ref ID: A4269341

TOP SECRET DINAR

Italian

3/0/ITD/T3652-63

other embassy personnel the funeral mass in memory of the late

president.

Along with the other Western representatives. I

had the flag flown at half mast.

MS UKA -175

CN ILC

TI •-

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

