# 144-10001-10114

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878869

Doc Ref ID: A4268749

DATE: 03/24/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM UMBR APACE: 1

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10114

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCF

[R]

3/0/MXD/T1726-63:* HAITI ASKS WITHDRAWAL OF U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE

DATE: 12/19/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

HAITI,' DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

HAITI,

[R]

[R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

: T

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

UMBRA

La 142241

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878869

Mexican

DOP SECRET DINAR

MXDM

WS 11275

3/0/MXD/T1726-63

IS 24 Dec 1617Z P

Dist HCE

ST 300

HAITI ASKS WITHDRAWAL, OF U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE BECAUSE OF

ALLEGED SLIGHT

FR Port-au-Prince: REYES

TO Mexico City: Foreign Ministry

19 DEc 63

--

Msg No: 729413

Coincident with the arrival of the new United States

Ambassador, the Haitian Foreign Ministry asked for the

withdrawal of the United States Cultural Attaché because

his services edited a pamphlet in memory of President KENNEDY

and inserted messages from chiefs of state expressing sorrow

but omitted the Haitian mourning decree and DUVALIER'S

cable of condolence, publishing only articles by Haitian

intellectuals [3 gr G].

MS 9620

Mexican

CN ILC

TI 19 Dec 63 2005Z

3/0/MXD/I1726-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

