# 144-10001-10399

## Page 1

Đốc ID: 6879005

Do FOPASEGRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10339

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCO

3/0/SAD/T103-63 SALVADORAN FOREIGN MINISTRY IMMEDIATELY REQUESTS CONDO

PAGES: 12/04/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSMENCATION: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879005

Salvadoran

Doc Ref ID: A4269361

TOP SECRET DINAR

SADY

WS 397

3/0/SAD/T1D3-63

IS

4 Dec 63

P

Dist: HCO

ST

3ДД

SALVADORAN FOREIGN MINISTRY IMMEDIATELY REQUESTS CONDOLENCES BE

CONVEYED TO U.S. GOVERNMENT

FR San Salvador: Foreign Ministry

TO

Washington:

Msg

Salvadoran Embassy

Nr:

902

22 NOV 63

--

We deeply regret the tragic event.

Please express to the

United States Government the

sentiments of sincere condolence of

the people and Government of El

Salvador.

MS

974

• Salvadoran

CN ILC

TI --

3/0/SAD/T103-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

