# 144-10001-10376

## Page 1

• Doc ID: 6879055

DORTOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10376

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: 0/2K

3/0/0QY//27-63 SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

PAGES: 11/24/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSMENCATION : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5, X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879055

TOP SECRET DINAR

REPRODUCTION/FURTHER DISSEMINATION PROHIBITED

WITHOUT PRIOR DIRNSA CONCURRENCE

3/0/Q0Y/R27-63

24 Nov 63 2105Z

DIST: 0/ZK

ST 011, 022, 051, 071,

141, 161, 241, 311,

701

SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER IWENTY-ONE

Information in this report is that available to NSA as of

1900z, 24 November, 1963, unless otherwise stated.

SIGINT DAILY SUMARY - PART ONE

WORLD HIGHLIGHTS

1• VENEZUELAN AIR DETACHMENT HAS ORDERS TO DESTROY ENEMY

PLANES OVER VENEZUELAN TERRITORY

Beginning at 1330Z on 25 November, the newly established

Venezuelan "Capri" air detachment, has been ordered to co-ordinate

with navy units to intercept, destroy or counteract enemy air

incursions of Venezuelan territory.

This air detachment, to be

stationed at Coro (11-25N 69-41V) , will also join navy and national

guard units in patrolling the coast of Falcon state.

Several U/I planes have been reported over Falcon state

since 7 October.

The establishment of the "Capri" detachment

elements defensive neasures ordered on 28 October against planes

suspected of supplying the guerrillas of Falcon. These flights,

according to previous Venezuelan military reports, are apparently

conducted on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays at 1930 hours.

(3/0/VEM/RO2-63, 30 Oct 2113Z, 3/0/VEM/R12-63, 2420012) • (TOP

SECRET DINAR)

2. GUINEAN: CHOU EN-LAI MAY VISIT AFRICA IN DECEMBER

Guinean representative BANGOURA in Peking informed

President TOURE that he had learned unofficially that Premier

CHOU EN LAI will leave Peking on 13 or 14 December to visit

Egypt and other African countries, including Guinea, Ghana

and Mali. He was unable to confirm the information with

Chinese protocol because, he believed, they were being

discreet in order to avoid an assassination attempt such

as President LIU SHAO CHI had experienced in a visit to

Cambodia. (3/0/GAD/T139-63, 2321572) • (TOP SECRET DINAR)

3• HAVANA REACTIONS TO KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

The reaction in Havana to the death of President KENNEDY

was calm but cautious, according to a report from the Chilean

Ambassador there on 23 November. Only isolated Comnunist groups

have shown any rejoicing. Radio and news reels are giving objective

Page 1 of & Page (s)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released

pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK,

AND

THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6879055

TORISEGRET DINAR

3/0/Q0Y/R27-53

reports. There is some corcel: ovei repeccussions which the

assassination may have. (3/0/CGD/11075-63, 241917Z) • (TOP SECRET

DINAR)

4.

CORRECTION TO: 2/0/20X/225-63 SIGHT DAILY SUMIA NUMBER

FINETEEN, PART CHE, WORLO HIGHLAGITS.

"CONTITUD) ACTION

PAD TIDA-COLGO (BRAZZAVILLE) BONDERY

Change first two sentences of the first paragrao to ead:

The report of an attack on Portuguese border troops was confirmed

in a Portuguese message of 21 Movanber. The Operationg Chiaf of

Staff at Luanda was informed by a l'ortuguese military officer that

insurgents, probably with the aid of bazooka end mortar, had

attacked an Incernal security police (PiE) post.

The second sentence of the gecoud paragraph should be

changed to read:

As a result of this attack, reinforcements,

consisting of 81 Mortar Section and a Cascadores (Comnando)

Platoon vere to be innediately dispatched to occupy the area

of the Border Guard and PiDs frontior posts at Hassabi..

(TOF

SCORCT DINAR)

SIGILT DAILY SUMARY - PART THO

CURREHT SINTUS: USSR

1. STRATEGIC ROCKET FORGES - NIK

2. LOLG RANGE AVIATION (LIA)

Lid bomber elements have temained in the usual weekend

virtual standoro status as of 13002, 24 Novenbai. (SECRET KIMBO)

B.

Weather information for various locations in the central

and wester Arctic for the period 0100 - 1700z appeared on

communications Cocilities of the Lid Arctic Comand on 23/24

November. The venther deta corsisted of requests for forecests

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR.

---

