# 144-10001-10173

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879074

À4269)4

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

--

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10173

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

UMDRA

DATE: 09/11/97

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

NSA

WOBENSMITH

TO

SSCI REOUST FOR PRODUCT ON ANTONIO VECIANA

PAGES: 12/30/76

SUBJECTS

SSCI REQUEST FOR PRODUCT ON SERAFIN, CUBAN MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM'

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

-ER] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From:

Declassify On:

NSA/CSSM 123-2,

Dated 3 September 1991

Source Marked "OADR"

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879074

SHUAN 03

Doc Ref ID

DA426944

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: SSCI Request for Document re Antonio Veciana

30 December 1976

In response to the inclosed 20 December request from

the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, on this date

I showed the NSA product on Antonio Veciana, 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

dated 29 November 1962, to SSCI staffers Tom Moore and Howard

Liebengood. They were quite interested in this message and

a reference to "Serafin."

They indicated that the Committee

would request a review of all Cuban material for the period

1961-1965.

JOHN

C. WOBENSMITH

Legislative Affairs

LAO

3 Incls:

1.

SSCI ltr dtd 20 Dec 76

2.

Product

3.

Backup

No ot

Manitos by Corerfernor (929/002M

aas-3)

Criginator

OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

A KE FOES STO BEEN ER 6, POTS

jeed

NAS04122E

Draconsend Cada?

---

