# 144-10001-10122

## Page 1

Dòc ID: 6878922

TOP SECRET UMBRAE: 03/24/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

--------_-

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10122

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

IRI

3/0/BLD/T2299-64:E WARREN COMMISSION FINDINGS SUMMARIZED FOR BRAZILIAN

PAGES : 19/29/64

SUbuLLIs

BRAZIL

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

INVESTIGATION, WARREN COMMISSION

DOCUMENTA TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

ERI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878922

Döc-Ret ID: A4268756

TOP SECRET DINAR

Brazilian

BLDY

WS 9436

3/0/ BLD/T2299-64

IS 29 Sep 17232 P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

WARREN COMMISSION FINDINGS SUMMARIZED FOR BRAZILIAN FOREIGN

MINISTRY

FR Washington: JURACY MAGALHOES

TO Río de Janeiro:

Foreign Ministry

Msg Nr: 1614

25 Sep 64

As announced

at the beginning of this week, the report

of the commission headed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme

Court, which investigated the assassination of President

KENNEDY, was handed to President JOHNSON yesterday. The

report is very lengthy, but is to be printed for wide distribu-

tion, according to the desire of President JOHNSON that there

be no doubts in regard to the circumstances and notivation

of that crime.

Sunday afternoon, the day after tomorrow, the report

will be made public, which will make possible its transcription

in the morning press on Monday.

The ceremony of handing the report to President JOHNSON

was attended by all members of the commission appointed by

him, which became known as the WARREN Commission and which

was made up of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Senacor

RICHARD RUSSELL and JOHN SHERMAN COOPER, Congressman HALE

BOGGS and GERALD FORD and our ME. JOHN, J. MCCLOY nO ME. ALLEN

DULLES.

It appears that the conclusion of the WARREN Comission

is that LEE OSWALD was the sole author of the crime and that

his motive was strictly personal. In regard to the assassinaciou

Of OSWALD, the Cormission appears to have accepted the thesis

that JACK RUBY also acted on strictly personal motivation both

evidently having suffered from mental unbalance or instability.

MS -0

CN -=

TI -

Brazilian

3/0/BLD/T2299-54

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

