# 144-10001-10358

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879052

DO TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10358

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/9

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

TITLE

3/0/VND/T449-63 SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN UNITED STATES

DATE

PAGES: 11/28/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5, X6,X7,X8

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879052

Doc Ref ID: A4269390

TOP SECRET DINAR

Vietnamese

(South)

VNDAA [French]

WS 31WSV10663

3/0/VND/T449-63

IS 28 Nov 1351Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN UNITED STATES

FR Washington: TRAN CHANH THANH

TO Saigon: SECRETAE

Msg NI: 106 / TU/SVBAME

25 Nov 63 2134

I attended all the ceremonies, the procession, the mass, the

burial, the reception by the KENNEDY family, and the reception by

the President.

I saw the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

from Tunisia, who assured me that Tunisia will send us an acknowledge-

ment to our request for recognition, but he is not able to give

an approximate date.

He will remain in New York to attend [a

meeting of the Security Council. Therefore, I asked BAHI LADGHAM,

the number two man to President BOURGUIBA, to accelerate (matters].

He promised me to take care of it when he returns to Tunis, which

will be in a few days. I have also asked WAHLEN, Head of the Swiss

Department for Policy, which is the same as the

Ministry of Foreign

Affairs, who also promised me to see about an acknowledgement of

receipt if this has not yet been done.

At the customary presentation President DE GAULLE asked me

It things were improving in our country. I told him they were

getting better.

MS 974

CN IIC

TI •o

Vietnamese (Souch)

3/0/VND/1449-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(s)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

