# 144-10001-10368

## Page 1

Độc ID: 6879038

Do Re SECRET MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10368

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

2X/0/BRP/T133-63 E KETHARA ATTACHS GOVERNMENT; LIKENS FATE OF NEE WIN.

ATE

DATS: 12/04/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION: PAPER

*, TEXTUAL DOCUMEN

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE CERRAST RENTES: 07/24/98

ORIGENETENG AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R]

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc HD: 0879038

Doc Ref ID: A4269401

SECRET SABRE

C114z

2X/0/BRP/T133-63

IS 4 DeC 63 P

Dist:

HCO

ST 240

-

SECRET

U KETHARA ATTACKS GOVERNMENT: LIKENS FATE OF

NE WIN TO DIEM AND KENNEDY

0/26659-63

FR

Mandalay: Assistant Deputy

Inspector General

TO Rangoon: Special Branch

26 NOV 63

1771/NA 4

[GIST] a

FOR EVALUATION

The Shweman Sayadaw U KETHARA

spoke at a religious ceremony

which was held from 1900 hours to 2115 hours on 25 November.

The

ceremony was sponsored by U PAW Eo and took place in the (4G]

Sunshwehlezu quarter which is in the jurisdiction of the saingdaw

[quarter] police station in Mandalay. Approximately 25DD people

attended, including some 300 monks.

The text of the sermon con

cerned the attainment of Nirvana.

There was no (B val elaboration)

on references made to the arrest of CPB/WF members, South Viet Nam,

or the Kennedy assassination. However, in connection with the

talks between the government and the insurgents, the speaker did

GROUP - 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET

PAGE_ 1 of 3: PAGE(s)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS

962K

CN BRPY 50101

TI

26 Nov 63 0430Z

Burmese

P/L

WS 33-3PY-134-63

2X/0/BRP/T133-63

0/26659-63

PAGE 1 Of 3 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Dọc ID: 6879038

Doc Ref ID: A4269401

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/BRP/T133-63

SECRET

0/26659-63

say he had come to the conclusion that the government was right.

since the original groups of insurgents were not accomplishing

anything with their demands for statehood.

The Shweman: Sayadaw said he was about to set to work and

that on a (B val holy day) in the month of Tabaunge he would

deliver a sermon which would deal with [XM] the danger of communism

and how it seeks to thwart religion. He said he would also speak

on how the Revolutionary Goverrment [3G] (B val misrules) the

people and how, once the people have been alerted, the government

will be destroyed.

The monk continued by saying that as it has been with the

monks who unhesitatingly banded together and put a stop to the

trouble over the four pagoda colonnades and the (B val number) 45

petrol station, the people likewise will' be able to put an end

to their troubles. And today, as it has been with world leaders

like NGO DINH DIEM

and KENNEDY. Bogyoke NE WIN likewise will

tremble with fear.

SECRET

PAGE _ ?

_of_3

_PAGE(s)

PAGE

. of_3

PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

DOC ID: 6879038

Doc Ref ID: A4269401

SECRET SABRE

. 2x/0/BRP/T133-63

SECRET

0/26659-63

After apparently making a reference to an historical example,

in which a king was driven from his country by the people, the

Shweman Sayadaw concluded by saying that in order to attain

Nirvana one should follow the precepts of the eight-goods.

a .

Portion of text; remainder irrelevant.

b.

Identified elsewhere as a lumber merchant.

• C.

Iwelfth month of the Burmese year, roughly equivalent to March.

SECRET

PAGE_ 3

of

3_ PAGE(s)

PAGE

3

of

3

• PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

