# 144-10001-10067

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878894

Doc Ref fi

CRET SPOKE

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 03/26/97

PAGE: 1

GENCY : NJ

ECORD NUMBER • 144-10001-1006

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

[R]

2X/0/MXD/T254-63:

-63!E MEXICO DECREES 3-DAY MOURNING PERIOD; FOREIGN

ATE

AGES: 11/24/6:

MEXICO, DIPLONACIS ACTIVITY

MEXICO, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

[R]

[R]

CLACTIENCATDE REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET SPOKE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878894

Doc Ref ID: A4268695

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/MXD/T254-63

IS 24 Nov 1709Z P

Dist:

HCF

ST 300

SECRET

0/27210-63

MEXICO DECREES 3-DAY MOURNING PERIOD;

FOREIGN MINISTER TO ATTEND FUNERAL

FR

Mexico City:

Foreign Ministry

TO Ankara ((A)): Mexican Embassy

Msg NI: 53081

23 Nov 63

By airmail, we are sending you infortation regarding

manifestations of the sorrow of the Government of Mexico because

of the assassination of President KENNEDY, consisting of messages

to President LYNDON B. JOHNSON, Secretary

RUSK and Mrs. KENNEDY,

as well as a decree declaring a three-day period of official

mourning.

The Foreign Minister will attend, as the personal representative

of our Chief Executive, the funeral ceremonies which will be held

this coming Monday in Washington.

((A)) This is a circular message, sent also to Belize.

EROLEDED FROM AUTOMATIC I

SECRET

PAGE 1 of_ L PAGE(s)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

NLI

MS 36

CN ILC

TI 24 Nov 63 0144Z

Mexican

MXDY

WS 2784

2X/0/MxD/7254-63

0/27210-63

PAGE 1

_of_ 1_ PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

