# 144-10001-10075

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878895

TEP UMBRI

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

PAGE: 1

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10075

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

[R]

3/0/FRD/T1259-63:

-63LE FRENCH LEGATION BUDAPEST REPORTS REACTION TO KENNED

DATE

SUBJECTS

FRANCE

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

HUNGARY, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

OCUMENT TYPE : REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMEN

LASSIFICATIO

RESTRICIIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIREL

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878895

DoRT OF SECRET DINAR

French

FRDBT

WS 10263

3/0/FRD/T1259-63

IS-14 Dec 2037Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

FRENCH LEGATION BUDAPEST REPORTS REACTION TO KENNEDY'S

ASSASS INATION

FR Budapest: FRANCFORT

TO Paris: The Department

Msg Nr: 425

25 Nov 63

Priority

Pursuant to my preceding telegram ((A)) .

The President's death was given official notice only. by the

lowering of a black flag to half-staff at the government head-

quarters and by the visit of a deputy minister of Foreign Affairs

and an assistant deputy trade minister to my American colleague.

The people remain distayed, but their anxiety of the first few

hours seems to have died.

The press, on the other hand, did.

not deviate from its harsh custom of anti-American manifestation

and sought, with a touch of irritability, to reject any

suggestion of Communist implication in the attempt.

((A)) Not available.

MS 47

French

CN ILC

TI --

3/0/FRD/T1259-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

