# 144-10001-10120

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878919

UMBRADATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

----

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10120

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

HCF PLUS

ER]

TITLE

3/0/QOD/T80-64: U.S.

ANTI-IMPERIALIST GROUP PROTESTS U.S. POLICY

DATE :

05/22/64

PAGES

SUBJECTS

CUBA, ANTI-AMERICAN ACTIVITY

ERI

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

1B

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

CONTAINS

SENSITIVE

COSMENTE COMPARTMENTEO INFORHATION

ERI

IRJ - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

ka Face Nail la la la

UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176,

DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

RFK,

AND THE REV. DR.

MLK,

JR.

---

## Page 2

Dọc ID: 6878919

• Dọc Ref ID: A4268755

TOP SECRET DINAR

P/L [Spanish] WS 4492

3/0/Q0D/T80-64

IS -22 May 1908Z P

Dist: HCF Plus

U.S. ANTI-IMPERIALIST GROUP PROTESTS U.S. POLICY TOWARD CUBA

FR Havana:

ILAH WARNER((A)), Secretary

TO New York: U THANT, Secretary General,

United Nations

Msg NI:

17. May 64

We, the Anti-Imperialist United States citizens residing

in Cuba, vigorously condemn the last Imperialist attack

against the people of Cuba in which a woman and an 8-year old

girl were wounded with United States weapons.

We protest the fascist vandalism of the JOHNSON

Government which came to power through the unexplained

assassination of President KENNEDY; and which is opposed to

Cuba, South| Vietnam and the negro population of the United

States. These fascist actions are an insult to our country

and an opprobium for humanity.

We support the protests of the people and Government of Cuba

against these imperialist aggressions which endanger world

peace.

((A)) ILAH MAE WARNER, Head of Anti-Imperialist United States

citizens residing in Cuba group.

MS 974

CN ILC

TI -

3/0/Q0D/780-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

