# 144-10001-10052

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878878

Doc Ref ID: A426868

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10052

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SMER SATE: 03/26/9

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

TITLE

3/0/W/T1919-63:

REPORT ON CUBA'S INTERNAL PROBLEMS WITH REBELS

AGES : 44/22/6.

SUBJECTS

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CASTRO, FIDEL

CLASSIFICATION

LASSIFICATION: REPORT

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TO

we nana be

UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878878

Doc Ref ID: A4268680

TOP

SECRET DINAR

#STINO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION ++XXXXXX7XXX36466XxxxX*x3XxxxXX*****:

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in

whole or in part is prohibited

except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish

PLDX-10

WS 348

3/0/w/T1919-63

22 Nov 63

REPORT ON CUBA'S INTERNAL PROBLEMS WITH REBELS

FR

Warsaw:

Ministry of Foreing Affairs

TO New York: Polish Mission to the UN

Msg. Nr. 11512

1D Oct 63 [M]

Routine

For the Chief of Mission

On 7 October CUIRUS reported from Havana:

Comments on FIDEL's speech of 28 September. Cuba's foreign policy and its

attitude toward the Moscow Treaty are determined by the aggressive activities of

the United States. General relaxation may not be applicable to the Caribbean area.

I. The coups in Honduras and the Dominican Republic, and the rise of

reactionaries in Venezuela, he ties in with coordination of operations against

Cuba by the CIA from Central America.

2. Smuggling of arms to the capitol is on the increase.

The underground

is switching to a long-range harassment supported by pirate activities from the

outside.

In September the government carried out massive military operations in

the Escambray and Matanza areas.

The Cuban counterrevolutionaries and Cubans from Central America

heavier underground traffic in men and arms for November and December.

4. I believe that the approaching Presidential elections in the United

States will strengthen reactionary forces from within and without. Immediate US

aggression is out of the question.

Therefore, there is a need for a strong gorilla

-sic collar around Cuba. Simultaneously, the economic blockade is being intensi

"ied. This is dictated by the consequent "anti-imperialistic lines of our own

foreign policy.". On the whole, in their opinion, relaxation is due to the peace-

ful policy pursued by the soviet Union, but they attribute this, first of all, to

their own position.

MATCHRZAK

MS --

TI --

CN --

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

