# 144-10001-10178

## Page 1

Dóc ID: 6879107

Doc Ref ID: A4274892

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10178

DATE: 10/05/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

LAO, YEATES

TO :

TITLE :

HOUSE ASSASSINATION COMMITTEE INQUIRY

JATE :

11/21/78

PAGES

ALLEGATIONS OF MR.

SUBT CES DAVID F. CHRISTENSEN CONCERNING JFK ASSAS

DOCUMENT. TYPE : MEMORANDUM/MOU

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

ER] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879107

Doc Ref ID: A4274892

Legis'- tive Affairs

14 November 1978

) IO:

DIR

SUBJECT:

House Assassinations Investigation

May I brief you on the attached at you:

convenience?

Sit. Gecke

EUGENE F. YEATES

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176,

DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6879107

Doc Ref ID: A4274892

Legist ve Affairs

14 November 1978

NOTE FOR JUDY MILLER, SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE

SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

SUBJECT: Interview by Mr. Robert Blakey

1. As we discussed, I am forwarding a proposed

MOU which we request be executed prior to making

arrangements for Mr. Blakey to interview any military

or civilian employee of the Department of Defense in

connection with allegations made by Mr. David F.

Christensen.

2.

We would be pleased to discuss

any portion

of this proposed MOU with Mr. Blakey or with your

office if any questions arise.

8.7. Guate

EUGENE F. YEATES

Chief

Legislative Affairs

NSA/CSS

Encl:

a/s

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 6879107

125184 LAN

BA L CO A

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

21 November 1978

SUBJECT: House Assassination Committee Inquiry

1: On 17 November 1978, Mike Smith, GC, and I attended an

interview conducted by staff

members of the House Select Committee

on Assassinations in regard to the allegations of Mr. David F.

Christensen concerning the involvement of certain individuals

in

the assassination of President Kennedy.

The interview was conducted by Messrs Kenneth Klein and

Gary Cornwell and was held in secure spaces provided by Mr. George

Murphy, Director of the Senate National Security Office. Both

individuals are authorized SI access.

The interview was conducted under terms of a Memorandum

of Understanding executed between the Committee and OSD on 15 November,

1978 (copy attached) •

4. For purposes of the interview, DoD made available Sgt.

Nicholas B. Stevenson, USAF, who had been stationed with Mr.

Christensen at USA-55, Kirknewton, Scotland, in 1963. Sgt. Stevenson

accompanied by LTC Jeffrey Graham, USAF, Air Force Legislative

Liaison.

5. The Committee staffers were interested primarily in Sgt.

Stevenson's recollections in regard to events described by Mr.

Christensen

in a letter to Stevenson written in May 1978.

6. Sgt. Stevenson briefly described the USA-55 site HF ILC

mission and confirmed that the Lisbon-Tangier link mentioned in

Mr. Christensen's letter could have been intercepted by the site

but, to his knowledge, had not been an assigned target. Regarding

specific allegations made by Mr. Christensen that he had

per-

sonally intercepted communications relating to the President's

assassination, Sgt. Stevenson emphatically stated that he had no

knowledge of such an event, though, in all likelihood, if it had

occurred, it would have been widely known within the

station and

the probable subject of a CRITIC.

7. Mike's and my role in the interview was concentrated largely.

on interpreting SIGINT jargon and emphasing the fact that the sites'

mission was and remains properly classified CONFIDENTIAL-HANDLE VIA

COMINT CHANNELS.

8. The staffers made no notes

and agreed to let us review their

report, for purposes of classification, on or after 20 November 1978•

CONE

2o tre

5 36

ПОЛА СПАСЕНГ®

Ra M

LONEN B

DINETILLO

DIGL

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

JFK,

---

## Page 5

Doc ID: 6879107

Do Re 10X4074892

9. The staffers remain particularly interested in determining

the name of the individual who Mr. Christensen believes

relates

to

They will explore means of determining this

information to include the possibility of having Sgt. Stevenson

call Christensen and ask him for the identity (Stevenson indicated

his extreme unwillingness to do this. LTC Graham stated that this

request would have to be examined at policy level within Dod).

10. If the Committee is able to determine a specific name,

the staffers indicated that they would probably initiate a specific

EUGENE

Et Yeate

Chief

Legislative Affairs

Encl:

a/s

CC :

DIR

D/DIR

ADPL

GC

DDM

M5

DDO

EXEC/DDO

G

G8

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

ONEDENAL

GUNNELS MANY

• ..-w.-.

outracied

2

---

## Page 6

Doc ID

Doc Ref ID: A4274892

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

15 N0Ü 1978

1. This Memorandum of Understanding shall govern the protection of

classified information of the Department of Defense relating to the

investigation of the House Select Committee on Assassinations (Committee)

certai

into the allegations of David F. Christensen of involvement

inclivitoars

Gameronant fatty in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

For such purpose, the Department of Defense will make Sergeant Nicholas

-B. Stevenson, USAF, available for an interview by a designated member of

the Committee Staff at

a time of mutual convenience but not later than

November 22, 1978.

2. The interview will be conducted in secure spaces which are

authorized for the discussion of classified signals intelligence infor-

mation.

3. The interview will be limited in scope to the substantive con-

tent of the allegations of Mr. Christensen. Information which deals

with intelligence sources and methods will not be used in responding to

questions, except as such information may directly relate to the sub-

stance of the allegations.

4. The Committee agrees, for itself and on behalf of the person

designated by the Committee to conduct the interview, not to disclose

any. classified information which is revealed in the course of the inter-

view without the prior written concurrence of the Department of Defense.

A representative of the Department of Defense will attend the interview

and advise the Committee representative as to information that is clas-

sified.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRES. JEK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

---

## Page 7

Doc ID: 6879107

Doc Ref ID: A4274892

5. The Committee's designee who conducts the interview may make a

record of the interview and written notes of the responses of SGT Stevenson

to the Committee's questions. The Committee agrees that any such notes

may be inspected by the representative of the Department of Defense prior

to removal from the interview room, and any classified information which

is contained in the notes shall be deleted prior to their removal.

any classified information

is contained in the notes, the original

version shall be maintained in the Office of The Special Assistant to

the Secretary of Defense,

and the Committee may have access to those

notes as needed. Any record or transcript of the interview will be left

in the possession of the Department of Defense for a review to determine

its classification. If the transcript or record contains classified

information, it will remain in the possession of the Department of

Defense, and the Committee may have access to it as needed..

6. Nothing in the

Committee's undertaking affects. the Committee's

right to invoke in the future any subpoena power available to it to

secure and disclose the information related to Mr. Christensen's allega-

tions, provided, however, that the Committee will not disclose the

information until any related litigation has been concluded by judicial

action that permits disclosure.

JOHN G.

KESTER

The Special Assistant to the

Secretary and Deputy Secretary

of Defense

Bits Blahey

G.

ROBERT BLAKEY

Chief Counsel and Director to

the House Select Committee on

Assassinations

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 8

Dọc ID: 0879107

Doc Ref ID: A4274892

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

BETWEEN

JOHN G. KESTER,

SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

AND

G. ROBERT BLAKEY,

CHIEF COUNSEL AND DIRECTOR TO

THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

1. This Memorandum of Understanding shall govern the pro-

tection of classified information of the Department of Defense

relating to the investigation of the House Select Committee on

Assassinations (Committee) into the allegations of Davia F.

Christensen of involvement by the Government of Cuba in the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy. For such purpose,

the Department of Defense will make SGT Nicholas B. Stevenson

available for an interview by a designated member of the Committee

Staff at a time of mutual convenience but not later than

22 November 1978.

2. The interview will be conducted in secure spaces which

are authorized for the discussion of classified signals intelli-

gence information.

3. The interview will be limited in scope to the substan-

tive content of the allegations of Mr. Christensen. Information

which deals with intelligence sources and methods will not be

used in responding to questions.

4. The Committee agrees, for itself and on behalf of the

person designated by the Committee to conduct the interview, not

to disclose any classified information which is revealed in the

---

## Page 9

Doc-ID: 6879107

Doc Ref ID: A4274892

Released

pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE

REV. DR. MLK, JR.

course of the interview without the prior written concurrence

of the Department of Defense. A representative of the Department

will attend the interview and advise the Committee representative

as to information that is classified.

5. The Committee's designee who conducts the interview may

make a record of the interview and written notes of the responses

of SGT Stevenson to the Committee's questions. The Committee

agrees that any such notes may be inspected by the Department's

representative prior to removal from the interview room, and any

classified information which is contained in the notes shall be

deleted prior to their removal. If any classified information is

contained in the notes, the original version shall be maintained

in the Office of the Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense,

and the Committee may have access

to those notes as needed. Any

record or transcript of the interview will be left in the possession

of the Department of Defense for a review to determine its .

classification. If the transcript or record contains classified

information, it will remain in the Department's possession, and

the Committee may have access to it as needed.

6.

Nothing in the Committee's undertaking affects the

Committee's right to invoke in the future any subpoena power

available to it to secure and disclose the information related to

Mr. Christensen's allegations provided, however, that the Committee

will not disclose the information until any related litigation has

been concluded by judicial action that permits disclosure.

JOHN G. KESTER

G. ROBERT BLAKEY

---

