# 144-10001-10316

## Page 1

Dọc ID: 6878989

DO ITOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10316

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

3/0/1TD/13540-85 FRENCH REACTIONS TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEATH

ATE

AGES: 2-/27/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

DACSMFICATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF RAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878989

Italian

Doc Ref ID: A4268850

TOP SECRET DINAR

ITDP

WS 12368

3/0/ITD/T3540-63

IS 27 Nov 1935Z P

Dist:

HCF

ST 270

FRENCH REACTIONS TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEATH

FR Paris: Embassy

TO Rome: Foreign Ministry

Msg NI: 1889

23 Nov 63

Signed BROSIO.

The death of President KENNEDY has made an enormous impression

in France and aroused an emotion (8M]. Government circles, beginning

with DE GAULLE, immediately forgetting [4G] differences with the

United States,

are unanimous in exalting the image of the deceased

President.

At the same time concern is not being concealed over the

internal evolution of the United States, where political differences

and the race conflict run the risk of being intensified.

On the international level, it is believed in Paris that the

West has lost a leader of major prestige and force and that this will

not fail to have repercussions on East-West relations.

JOHNSON is considered an obscure figure and a man, despite his

(B val political) experience, of minor caliber, with the consequences

of depriving the United States for [5G] a year, (B val that is),

until the (B val next) elections, of any effective political direction.

With the approach of the presidential elections the first signs

were already (B val noted) of hesitation and indecision which

diminished the capability for decision by the United States, and

the death of President KENNEDY risks paralyzing [7G] Washington

with unforeseeable consequences on both the domestic and the

international levels.

Italian

3/0/ITD/13540-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (s)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID, 6878989

Doc Ref ID: A4268850

TOP SECRET DINAR

Italian

3/0/ITD/I3540-63

All agree, then, in [11G/M], over and above the differences,

that Europe has lost [51G/M] (B val the West) one of its best

leaders.

Communicated to ITALNATO and, by pouch, to the London embassy.

MS 78T

CN ITDB 50101

TI •-

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR.

---

