# 144-10001-10116

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878870

RET UMBRATATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-------------

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10116

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCF

[R]

3/0/MXD/T1749-63:

T63:E VENEZUELAN FOREIGN MINISTER BRINGING DOCUMENTARY

DAIL

PAGES :

12/31/63

1

MEXICO

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

VENEZUELA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

CUBA

ORGINIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R]

[R]

[R]

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176,

DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878870

Doc Ref ID: A4268751

TOP SECRET DINAR

Mexican

MXDN

WS 15608

3/0/MXD/T1749-63

IS 31 Dec 2025Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

VENEZUELAN FOREIGN MINISTER BRINGING DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE AGAINST

CUBA TO WASHINGTON

FR Caracas: ALABARDA O.

TO Mexico: Foreign Ministry

30 Dec 63

--

Msg NI: 1084

Venezuelan Foreign Minister FALCON BRICENO left for Washington

yesterday, taking with him the documentation which the

Government of Venezuela will present to the OAS regarding the

accusation recently (B val made) against the regime of FIDEL CASTRO.

MS 1

CN ILC

TI 30 Dec 63 1752Z

Mexican

3/0/MXD/T1749-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

