# 144-10001-10273

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878936

Doc Ref ID: A4268778

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: NSA

144-10001-10273

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: USAF

FROM

USA-751

TO

DIRNSA

TITLE

DISCUSSION OF ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY - CORRECTED COPY

AGES: 2

123/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : Ô7/24/98

MAPPONEN SECURERY AGENCY'S DETERATNATION REQUTRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878936

CLAS

Doc Ref ID: A4268778

199

3011

ZCZCHAB956I DA$91

- ..

00 YEK AAH

DE YFIDSV

UZKZK 00 ORA DE

THIS IS A CORRECTED COPY X PSE DESTROY PREVIOUS XMNS X

'Д

ДАД

D

00

• YEK AAH

DE YFIDDA 67 23/08 50Z NOV

ZKZK 00 ORA DE

0

230849Z ZYH

FM USA-751

TO

DIRNSA

ZEM

SECRET KIMBO

This work sheet contains information alfecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U. S. C.,

Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission or the revelation of which in any monner to an unouthorized person is prohibited by low.

anderin funer furry?

FROM OPN-SWC 23-11-239

FOLLOWING INFO PASSED FOR YOUR INFO:

0

230819Z ZYH

FM

US A-73

TO

USA-751

ZEM

SECRET KIMBO

BIWN D739/D735Z, 23N063. RUSS MERCURY GAASS FACS REFLD

TWO UNID OPERATORS AT TWO UNID STAS PROB AT GERA EAST

GERMANY DISCUSSING THE ASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY•

ONE OPERATOR STATED: "YESTERDAY I HEARD ABOUT IT. THERE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

HUN WELD DIO WILLO HE WAS RIDING IN SOME PROVINCE (OF U.S.)

DOCHDO 7S&E KIND OF TOWNOCIf EXASSTRE WAS (IGP) THERE. THEY

-

WERE DEPENDING ON HIM. HE WAS SUPPOSED TO APPEAR IN A

1

8-

UCERTAIN TOWN. THERE WERE SUPPOSED TO BE ELECTIONS NEXT YEAR.

THEY HAVE MANY PARTIES THERE, I GUESS. WE'LL SEE WHAT

@IS WRITTEN IN THE PAPERS.**

-

un

IL COMMENTS: ACTY REPRESENTS OPERATOR CHATTER AND DOES NOT

INDICATE ANY CHANGE IN POSTURE OF RELATIONS •

ICH INFO:

1. RZBCD0 521

2. 59.990MCS/M D10 DEG ABLE

M3. UNSUB (PROB SAM RELATED NET AT GERA)

F

S

4. U/I -1

S

A

• 5. T/U/1-2

U 1550

Vational Defense. of the United

'or the revelation of

States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.

which in

any manner to

an unauthorized. person

is prohibited by

NO ARRIVH

11...00070.

1HI2 72 V COBBECUED COAX

SKIX GO OBV DE

DE ALIDEA

00

AEKIVH

16.1.00500

Released pursuant

to

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

riirr

Ш

---

