# 144-10001-10304

## Page 1

• Doc ID: 6878981

Doc RTOPASECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 10/09/9

PAGE:.

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10304

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCÔ

TITLE

3/0/FRD/T1196-63 TAMGANYIKA MOURNS KENNEDY

ACES: 1210116

SUBJECTS:

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSMENCATION: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND

THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878981

French

Doc Ref ID: A4268831

TOP SECRET DINAR

FRDBT

WS 0-9835

3/0/FRD/T1196-63

IS

7

Dec 63

Dist:

HCO

ST

ЗДД

TANGANYIKA MOURNS KENNEDY

FR Dar es Salaam: BOURDEILLE

TO Paris:

The Department

Msg NI: 289

23 NOV 63

--

The tragic death of President KENNEDY has aroused deep emotion

here. President NYERERE last night convened the Council of Ministers,

whose decisions he did not, however, make known; he said he was too

overwhelmed to make a statement. Today has been declared a day of

national mourning. (B val Government offices), banks, and schools

are closed.

MS

French

UKF- 12D

CN ILC

T'I --

3/0/FRD/1196-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

