# 144-10001-10060

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878861

4268089 pm sa

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD NUMBER

AGMBER : NSA

144-10001-10060

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

UMBRACATE: 03/26/91

'AGE:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

[R]

3/0/NED/T12-63? REPORT ON PRESIDENT JOHNSON'S SPEECH BEFORE THE

PAGES: 12/31/63

SUBJECTS

THE NETHERLANDS, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

[R]

CLASSMENCATION REPORT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SE

UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878861

Netherlands

Doc Ref ID: A4268689

TOP SECRET DINAR

NEDY

WS 328

3/0/NED/T12-63

IS 31 Dec 63 P

Dist: HCO

ST 300

REPORT ON PRESIDENT JOHNSON'S SPEECH BEFORE THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

FR Washington: KORTEWEG, 3900 16th St.,

N.W.

TO The Hague: GEPEDE( (A))

Msg Nr: --

17 Dec 63

In a brief address to the United Nations General Assembly

the new President of the United States attempted to make clear

what his future foreign policy will be like. He pointed out

that 30 years ago he was a collaborate of ROOSEVELT in a peaceful

revolution in the United States, and said that he now seeks

something similar for the entire world. His remark that no one

particular political system will dominate the future of mankind

may be taken as an expression of his willingness to accept

peaceful coexistence.

Every leader who strives for peace, he

said, will find himself side by side with the United States.

Mr. JOHNSON's speech, which took only 15 minutes, did not

go into details, but in its main outlines left nothing to be

desired so far as clarity is concerned.

The New York police took extensive precautions to insure

the President's safety. The hall was carefully checked, and

even the grounds outside the building were inspected closely.

The President, who was accompanied by his wife and 11 members

of the Congress, was welcomed by Secretary General U THANT.

It was the last day the General Assembly, and most of the

delegates were about to return home, but the large hall was

filled to capacity. All seats in the public gallery were

occupied by special invitation.

Netherlands

3/0/NED/T12-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6878864 .

Netherlands

TOP SECRET DINAR

Doc Ref ID: A426868

3/0/NED/T12-63

Mr. JOHNSON said that the late President had inspired humanity

with fresh hope, which he shared with a new generation of world

leaders. KENNEDY had addressed himself to the future, and

wanted to forget the disunity of the past. The world should

follow his example.

It is true that the world knows more about how to destroy

itself than how to live together in understanding, but the

United Nations has been too successful for one to despair of the

future. President JOHNSON pointed to successes in the Congo

and Middle East, to the slowing of the arms race, to the progress

of decolonization, to the furthering of human rights. The

United Nations should provide opportunities for constructive

action and not become a platform for name-calling.

The President does not desire only bilateral assistance to

underdeveloped countries, but lays great stress on collective

international action. Just as he wishes to create the impression

among Americans that he is liberal and progressive, so did he

take this opportunity to convince the Assembly that he is deeply

interested in the fight against illiteracy, poverty, and disease.

Just as 30 years ago under ROOSEVELT he helped eliminate poverty

in America, so does he now wish to contribute to the elimination

of misery throughout the world.

Above all else, however, he sees his task as the maintenance

of peace.

Thanks to KENNEDY, the world has become a little

safer and the road to the future a little easier. The greatest

tribute one can pay to President KENNEDY is to continue his work

for a peaceful future. On this note the new President ended his

brief, reassuring speech.

((A)) Cable address of newspaper Grote Provinciële Dagblad.

MS 974

CN ILC

TI •

2

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

