# 144-10001-10107

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878917°

A4268741

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

ET UMBRA PAE:1

DATE: 03/24/97

IDENTIFICATION FORM

----------

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10107

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCO

[R]

TITLE

3/0/W/T2084-63: MCCLOY INTERVIEWED BY POLISH U.N. MISSION CHIEF ON

PAGES

AGES: 12/06/63

'OLAND, DIPLOMATIC ÄCTIVIT

DACSMFNCATIOE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

1B

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

X

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIREDI

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R]

Released pursuant

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

ER] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

TOP SEPREY UMBRA

---

## Page 2

=

Doc ID: 6878917

*****

Doc Ref ID: A4268741

TOP SECRET DINAR

******NO FOREIGN DISSEM*******

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in whole or in part

is prohibited except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish

PLDX-10

WS 412

3/0/w/T2084-63

IS 06 Dec 63

Dist: HCO

MCCLOY INTERVIEWED BY POLISH UN MISSION CHIEF ON ASSASSINATION

INVESTIGATION

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN

TO Warsaw: Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Msg NI: 515

4 Dec 63 1000

Routine

For WINIEWICZ®

In conversation with me, MCCLOY, a member of the presidential

commission stated that he has serious doubts of the credibility

of the investigation to date. He does not eliminate the possibility

that the attempt on KENNEDY was made by two persons. However, in

view of JOHNSON's order that the commission investigate also the

circumstances of OSWALD's slaying, some of the commission's

operations and its report could come after RUBY's trial and perhaps

even after the verdict and appeals. In the mantime the trial

was postponed until 3 January [sic], and the FBI released to the

press information that their investigation confirms OSWALD's guilt,

and that he had no accomplices.

жж*.

LEWANDOWSKI

MS --

CN

TI --

Polish

3/0/w/T2084-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

---

