# 144-10001-10218

## Page 1

Date: 10/16/95

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10218

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM : NSA/OFC OF POLICY

TO : MARK ALLEN

TITLE:

INFO ON JFK ASSASSINATION INVESTIGATION

DATE: 03/16/81

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

INVESTIGATION INTO JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : LETTER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS : 0

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

2025 Release under the President

in F. Kennedy Assassinat

ecords Collention Act of 199

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 78334 Docld:34630151 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Seriai: 19022

Mr. lark Allen

F.

0. Box 9032

Washington, DC

20003

Dear Mr. Allen:

This responds to your letter of li January 1901 in nich you roguest all

correspondence or records of any communication between this Agency and the

U.S. liouse Select Cormittee on Assassinations conceming the Committee's

investigation into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Your request has been processed under the provisions of 5 u.s.c. 552,

the Freedom of Infornation Acü. Information which is releasable is enclosed.

National Security Agency/Central Security Service (NSA/CSS) functions,

activities, and internal orzanizational designators, as vell as titles and

names Of NSA/CSS employees, have beén deleted from the enclosures.

deletions have been made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (3), in conjunction with

50 0.3.0. 402 note (Pubiic Law 86-36).

Section é of Fublic La 3ú-36 provides

that no law shall

be coustrued to zequire the disclosure of the ornanization.

or any

function of the iSA, of chy inforcation with respect to the activities

thereof, or of the names, titles, salarics, or wunber of persons erployed by

the Agency.

Other items have been deleted from the enclosures pursuant to 5 u.s.c.

552(b) (6), as their disclosure would cause an unarranted invasion of the

personal privacy of the individual concerned.

The remaining Items have been Celeted because they are classified and

therefore exempt from access or release pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(3) (1), which

provides that the Freedom of Information hot does not apply to matters

are specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order

to be kept secret in the interest of national defense of foreign policy and

are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order.

The infor-

mation is currently and properly classified in accordance with the criteria

for claseification in Section 1-3 of Executive Order 12065, and paragraph

2-202 of Departuent of Defense Regulation 5200.1-R, The Information has been

reviewed for possible declassification or doungrading according to the provisions

of Sections 3-3, 3-4, and 3-0 oi Executive Order 12065 and Chapter III of

Doi Regulation 5200.1-R and found to be properly excluded fron declassification

or downgrading.

Costil

NW 78334 Docld:34630151 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Serial: 19022

In addition, this Agency is authorized by law to protect certain

Title 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (3), exempts

matters that are specifically exempted from disclosure by statute. The

applicable statutes in this case are 18 U.S.C. 798, 50 U.S.C. 402 note

(Public Law ô6-36), and 50 V.S.C. 403(d) (3) .

DoD Directive 5400.7, Sections

III and VI.C.3, specifically recognizes this exemption.

As the deleted items constitute a partial denial of your request, you

are hereby advised of this Agency's appeal procedures:

Any person denied access to records, or parts thereof, may, within 30

days after notification of the denial, file an appeal to the ASA/CSS Freedom

of Infornation Act Appeal Authority.

The appeal shall be in writing addressed

to the NSA/CSS FOIA Appeal Authority, rational Security Agency, Port George

G. Meade, MD 20755. The appeal shall reference the initial denial of access

and shall contain, in sufficient detail and particularity, the grounds upor

which the requester believes release of the information is required. The

NSA/CSS Appeal Authority shall respond to the appeal within 20 working days

after receipt.

Please be advised that records originated by the Congress of the United

States are not subject to the Freedon of Information Act.

Sincerely,

EUGENE F. YEATES

Chief, Office of Policy

Encls:

a/s

cc: L221 (less encls)

CONCUR: U

1 00.26 Feb 1981.

Classified portions of the records were bracketed by M. Levin and P. Dinwoodie

-I. Figallo, 0324, 3085s, 9 March 1981, lad

NW 78334 Docld:34630151 Page 3

---

