# 144-10001-10108

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878920

Doc Ref ID: A4268742

SEE ASSASSTNATTON SYSTEM

POKE

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-----

----

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

: 144-10001-10108

DATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : 0/WG

[R]

TITLE

2/0/CUM/R96-63: WESTERN ARMY TOLD TO STAND BY FOR ALERT IN REACTION

DATE: 12/05/63

SAGES

SUBJECTS

CUBA, MILITARY ACTIVITY

[R]

DOCUMENTA TYPE REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET SPOKE

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878920

Doc Ref ID: A4268742

2/0/CUM/ R96-63

05 Dec 63 2303Z

DIST: O/WG

ST 250

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

COMINT REP

RT

WARNING

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within

the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission

or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and read by only those

persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-

munications intelligence security regulations and who need the

information in order to perform their duties.

No action is to be taken on information herein reported, re-

gardless of temporary advantage, it such action might have the

effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

Released pursuant

RFK,

AND THE REV.

to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

DR.

MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6878920

Doc Ref ID: A4268742

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/CUM/R96-63

05 Dec 63 2303Z

DIST: O/WG

ST 250

WESTERN ARMY TOLD TO STAND BY FOR ALERT IN REACTION TO DEATH.

OF KENNEDY

Information not previously available reveals that lst Div

Hq, Bahia Honda, was advised to keep personnel of its command

vailable in case a state of alert were declared in respons

o events following the death of President KENNEDY.

message; intercepted from (C val 4th) Army Corps Hq, Pinar

del Rio, also prohibited statements pro or con with regard

to the death of the President.

Bahia Honda replied that steps had already been taken in

compliance with these orders.

COMMENT:

Units of the Eastern Naval District were placed on alert,

presumably due to

the proximity of Guantanamo, Naval Base, after

the KENNEDY assassination, as were unidentified army coastal

observation posts in the First Army area (2/0/CUJ/R58-63). There

is no indication, however, that Western Army units were formally

put on a state of alert.

Page 1 of 1 Page (s)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND

THE REV.

DR.

MLK, JR.

SECRET KIMBO

---

