# 144-10001-10071

## Page 1

Dóc ID: 6878889

UMBR

DATE: 03/26/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER :

144-10001-10071

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCF

[R]

TITLE

3/0/BVD/T226-63: BOLIVIAN UN DELEGATE REPORTS KENNEDY WAS A GREAT

PAGES: 12/04/63

SUBJECTS

BOLIVIA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

[R]

CLASSIFICATION

DASSMFICATION: REPORT, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Dốc ID: 6878889

Bolivian

BVDY

WS 1121

3/0/BVD/T226-63

IS 04 Dec 1951Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

BOLIVIAN UN DELEGATE REPORTS KENNEDY WAS GREAT FRIEND OF BOLIVIA

FD New Pork: Foreign Ministry

Msg NI: N/N

23 Nov 63

- For the Foreign Minister.

Real shock exists over the assassination of President

KENNEDY.

Television, via Telstar, is showing touching

demonstrations in Europe.

The Chiefs of State from many countries will attend the

funeral services.

It is my personal opinion that your attendance would be

advisable in view of the fact that the new martyr to human

rights was a great friend of Bolivia and was convinced of the

grandeur and hopes of the national revolution.

Cordially,

MS 974

CN ILC

TI --

Bolivian

3/0/BVD/T226-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE (S)

-TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

---

