# 144-10001-10065

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878947

UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 03/26/91

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10065

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

[R]

3/0/W/T1596-63:

3: REPRESENTATIVE OF ARBITER-ZEITUNG TO BE IN DALLAS

AT!

AGES: 11/26/6

SUBJECTS :

ARBEITER-ZEITUNG

AUSTRIA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

[R]

[R]

CLACTIENGSATORE REPORT

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Đọc ID: 6878947

Dọc Ref ID: A4268693

Austrian

TOP SECRET DINAR

carr

*****NO FOREIGN DISSEM**********

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in whole or in part

is prohibited except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

AUDE

WS 626

3/0/w/T1596-63

IS 26 Nov 63

P

Dist: HCO

REPRESENTATIVE OF ARBEITER-ZEITUNG TO BE IN DALLAS

FR Vienna: Foreign Ministry

TO

Washington:

Embassy

MSg NI:

55066

23 Nov 63

---

Please have the honorary consulate in Dallas put $2@D at the

disposal of editor FIELHAUER of the Arbeiter-Zeitung. Editor

FIELHAUER will report in Dallas some time today. Reimbursement

will be sent from Vienna on Monday.

MS

Austrian

CN --

TI --

3/0/W/T1596-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

