# 144-10001-10361

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879054

DOC ROP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10361

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT- INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

NSA

NSA

TO

TITLE

3/0/W/T2030-63 UN HONORS KENNEDY

ALE: 52/02/6

AGES

ASSASSINATION,

SUBJECTEN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

ER] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879054

******

Polish

Doc Ref ID: A4269394

TOP SECRET DINAR

-***NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION#*7*7*

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document ir

whole or in part is prohibitec

except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY AGENCY.

PLDX-10

WS 386

3/0/W/T2D30-63

2 Dec 63

UN HONORS KENNEDY

FR New York: Polish Mission to the UN

TO

Warsaw:

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

27 Nov 63 1930

Urgent

Msg. Nr. 495

For WINIEWICZ.

1. Tuesday's plenary session was devoted exclusively to honoring KENNEDY's

memory and there was very little occasion for political declarations. The

chairman agreed with all the delegations that only vice chairmen (13, among

them, the great powers), the chairmen of the seven committees, and the ex-

chairman of the assembly will appear.

Ao FEDORENKO, appearing in the name of all the Socialist countries,

and the Bulgarian expressed hope that KENNEDY's policy will be continued.

Romanian's appearance was without political accents.

B. The Western delegations emphasized European solidarity with the

States

- except the Frenchman, who limited his appearance to expressions of

sympathy

Co The Latins and Asians stressed the necessity of international

agreements, the Africans - the continuation of the process of decolonization.

?. The leading motive, authorized by JOHNSON, Of STEVENSON's declaration

was the continuation of efforts to reach agreements through negotiations and

full support for UN activities to "uphoid the peace."

However, the formu-

lation of the thesis that there will be no JOHNSON policy as there was no

KENNEDY policy can be interpreted as a signal that the new administration

intends to have a free hand also in matters begun by KENNEDY. From our con-

versation with American delegates we deduce that they do not expect a change

Polish

3/0/W/T2D3D-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6879054

Doc Ref ID: A4269394

TOP SEGRET DINAR

-**NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION********

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

AXX.

Polish

3/0/W/T2D3D-63

in the State Department.

They flatly denied the rumors that at the beginning of 1964 they will renew

intrigues against us at the session (article 19 which deals with the loss of

vote) on the question of payments for the Congo operations and UN forces in

the Near East (see our Nr. 478)ª.

From the constant emphasis that the new administration in Washington

will

concentrate on internal matters and that it needs time before it will be

capable of conducting an active foreign policy, we surmise that they fear

pressure from our side.

3o The tempo of the session slowed down but we will be able to adjourn

before the holidays.

worsening.

To date there are no signs that the atmosphere is

LEWANDOWSKI

a. See 3/0/W/T1937-63.

MS

--

CN

--

TI --

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

