# 144-10001-10202

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879105

Doc Ref ID: A4269466

Date: 10/16/95

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10202

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM : NSA

TO

: G/WQ

TITLE

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63 STATUS OF CUBAN/SOVIET COMMS AS OF 29 NOV 1963

DATE

: 11/29/63

PAGES

: 6

SUBJECTS :

SOVIET MILITARY COMMS BETWEEN MOSCOW & HAVANA

SOVIET COMMS WITHIN CUBA

SOVIET AIR & AIR DEFENSE COMMS

CUBAN COMMS

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION : 8

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Dọc ID: 6879105

Doc

ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS

PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

CONC.

THE

ASSASSINATIONS

OF

210/0

3270

81. 011,

Pary and

KOLOR!

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6879105

Doc

ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176,

DECLASS.

PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

OF RECORDS

CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS

OF

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63

29 Nov 63 21032

DIST: 0/M0

ST 011, 021, 05k,

101, 255, 401

OF. 29 NOVEMBRR 1963

PART 1 AS

SOILET. MILITARY

RECOIL AND HAVA

The Soviat Matacry.

of. Defense-subordinated link "y" between

Moscow and Havana contInues to be active

in both Moroe and zadto-

printer sereabler as late as 28. Noveber

1963,

Oporator chatter

sent ta revered

order again

was noted on

20 November -

The last

Coe thúc

chatter

obserred v43.o0 15

october.

PART 1 B:

2OY13r

OO/24UA GATTORS

Noviaber 1963

Chree koon atceupte to break in on

Sovtst/Caban count cations autivities

have been noced.

accepe was made

on cat of Bette a been to sedat and First

terminal suspecte

ot being in the

cocasion, an activity

nesteing tha

callaigs Not concasted one of

the Soviat opcatere

and quarted him

as to his Ication and

whether chace was eng

tatto lor him.

of approxi-

nacely 10 sinutes eurod, costatning repested queries

location of tha Sovset usation,

afore the Soviet oporator terminated

the schedule.

Later the sune day a possible

was made.

Tale then.

the 1tnk

between lArapar and

msed tha onllaign NSS.

ancion without divataine

acrenpe of

the

вола type

Air Detense Link:

melEtad nocivicy

Cou реде

maccabouts.

On 15 November, an ate

to portray itsele as mod

Ae 2102z the etas,

correct eignala ton the

a zesult of the recher pea

Minutes after the atten

a varning to

at uldercified activaty

Sovies Naval natwork in

mad a collaceiva eall utilising the

Borever, tog accaept was abottive as

sioulacion of

Sortet proceduce,

Che coptrol of the

Sovlet neval net sent

scation is vocking

Not cho

net on 23 Naventur

asked Lot datalie. o/

cloned vers chas

with a larga calline.

Be died:

DuzLop che pac

scrambler. They Muri

vith both cemalrals in

tus noted on the Naval

Sages sore noted wideh

Me anly detalle sen-

hot by a/miper

nine Soviet

Cuba MP Lins uned

012090:

the coo su subordinated 1lake

Angero

insubordinated 1ink

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 6879105

Doc

ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

PRES.

JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

OF RECORDS

CONC.

THE

ASSASSINATIONS

OF

2/0/CUKIJ /R66-63

Defense-associated

Link

Linonar-Pinar del

Hencera Sector Heapone Control

Group, and the Ganagum

Veconta de Las Turas and Santiago de Cuba!

tar Haacens Contril Group, and - new

Linonar-conttolled Ate Dimeo-associated link on wuich sorembler

as Etest board 21 and 22/23 novenbet. The outscation terminal of

chis per liokids unlocate

Soutet ectabbler activity was noted

as late as 23 Roverber

on Cuban pierowavo facilitles and

27. lovenber on so

Itt-hannel /vuz (R-401) CecilLetes.

PART 1 CH

505G

IL ALO TEE CONNENIGNTER

The subseriber to

the Sovlet Forces Cuba (SPC) Western Sector

Weapons Contrul

group locared at San Antoalo de los Banos continues

to be tractive In HP lozoa comantcations Be of 27 November.

The

atation was last

tive on 15 Debollar 1963, Ic 1a possible

chat che air date

diated LInk between Limonar and an unlo-

caced stacion to

et the Marcor control group function,

Screbbler cominte

noted. or the link on 21. Noveber, for

the first time.

All tacue of

colbert to the Rascarn Sector Weapons

Control Croup

TruE Pozde cormunications on 21 Novenber

1963,

The

statione

do Cuba Vlatorte de les Tanas, and

43 unrecovered

heard la HP Norse communica-

clons alace 29

Octobat»

and 00 Moveber, respectively.

No explanacion can be offered at chis tice for thesa periodo of

Horse inactivity.

The Boriet Vorces

the Cuban

Angeles revealed

in cuba

80040

20

Personnel am

that fi ine

of the Lodivi

1os zaday TeportirE groupe continue to

Асем (вед 2/0/CURК/8203-63) ал

D9E cedar opecational and

99000 10, tha syeten.

mulet barnel. (2-101) zadto relay

1963 betatan SAM seginencal hoad-

as Dunca and a subordinase SAM site al

eone Sovlet SAl persomal vould arrive

no refermen to the cocal nunber of

* the poakes at the reginent Indicated

Individuals vie wire arciving.

The nanse

not been provouuly chaerved fa Soviet BAN

have an endless

of couese. "

om probable Sall real-

4 tetarence. to Herdeo d

The

TUKKA (Further unidmittled)

Tou Soơng

1 endatatana? - Jast to fo,

---

## Page 5

Doc ID: 6879105

Dod

ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS

PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS

OF

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63

Also

Union and

anzivou. at

0B Detober

addition

Cuba that

77-489, and 21-188 77-331,

near any of

chese Loostiana.

GE

airerate tron the Soviet

aboard the flight wilch

U-114 did arrive in Cube on

arrived Cube: on 11 October.

there are chaee places in

1-L61

77-16%, 21-46N

There are no Soviet SAM installations

Radio operators on SIC air defense comundcations continue

to bake refacense ta nemartenced epezetore. Ic Is possibly sis-

niEtcane chat axpecterced opurators uru parning the seca during the

Cines of the COLDEN

#ons. Radio operators have also dis-

CL8404 CE САН

20420910601

of adaslla/target cracking S-band FAN SONG

(BE 29)

zadaza have

reported op TLIIT cources during the

past осек.

Ton: 23 Savagber tende to con-

les operation at

S-baod. verston of FAN SON radur at che Punca

Brava atte (23-0LN

62-314) -

Other S-band FAN S0YG sites noted

active vere Marlal, Managus, Havana Bast and Macanzas.

FLINT Intoration todteated S-hand TAS 501G cadaza in opet»

elon at for teen al

foe SAM alces in Cuba, Including

to ata 1e6

Satand FAR 50

11 Boveches: 1960.

te have ocsurced dally einca

under, 24 Barunber

Cha duration

Na Toporded dhun ter In Novanber has

averaged lans than four ainutes, with approximately fifty percent

of the recrot intercepte not

exceediaz one sinute in daration.

The longest recor

Incuroens occurred on 15 Novsaber for a

pertol of approxtestely 19 minutes.

dusing Coa cucteot

arach hava accusted during Borning houcas,

however, Incorcepte after 17002 were reported on 14, 20 and

23 Boverber,

SETTing

FAR) Resoguarters.

00 16 lie enher 1901

19. 300

orationary. Alr Force. (DAN/

Cacl11cp at Varadara

ac Varadero has subsequently

raferred to in a convue.

olutionary Alt Borce (DRA/

on 22 Noy mber 1963.

clutcer vith only one

Inorense of malvity at

PAKT-IL Аз

---

## Page 6

Dọc ID: 6879105

Doc

ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176,

DECLASS.

OF RECORDS

PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

CONC. THE

ASSASSINATIONS

OF

2/0/CURUJ /8.66-63

CLOT

observed in COMINT daring

co the ICB forces reported to

che deploynent of Westero Artes

creased operacional effort i

120/CV

Sevecal, zefarences co a combinz opsrat ton ucilizing the cou-

bined efforts of the Departoent of Scate Security (DSE), Depart-

went of Pusite Order (DOP), and the constal vigilance observation

рено Дорое нике.

oted in ensaages from Central Aroy HQ, Sance

Clara, to KOD

This oseration was

- gal. (22-12% 79-1,10, Munletpality of Teguajay,

ad pecsons attenpting to flee the country

(2/SL/CUW/1293

There wal

Saga ta Grand

consiscing of the

several bessages about an operation in the

Sat Laa Villas Province. An insurgent band

individualo van captured at San Pedro Farm,

of Cortalitio. (22-598 80-304), on 21. November.

Misbers of UCD Kilttary Unit Maber 3009 (Sm Vicente, 22-55K

80-2910 vece ap

nely attitard for this operation

C2/EL/CUM/R2 86-63

2100/073/1272-63)

aron organiascion" wen observed in a message

SArgent Forces, concunications at 21262 on

26 Save b

erdered the

o of Persomel, LoB Diviaton, Trinidad,

• Personal of bla subordinate baccallons to

arCars to try co resolve the now organization.

Since mencion

made of a new organisation and not "reorgantsa»

ton, " the poastill ity exteto thee chlo is in reference to tha

Cuben Cmeras

nti-Talder Josces (JCP). Ptior refacences to

LOP have not 1

Sorrel L0 Chla particular ares, substantiating

the poastb

25. ICE organizatton in southern Las Villas

Peovince (2/13/0Uм/8301-60) -

ELeld annuvate conducted by elenate of the

Central Are

the pertod 25 to 30 November sace apparen: 1y

coessed by oflelale represencing Ground Porees elements through»

0U5G800.

Invitations to obaerre those pancurers vure exteoded te

offietals or daleratfore of Montern Army Roadquarters and Picet

AnD Heaoquartets

Доре

Antostr Defense/VAR, and Naull Headquarters,

9a Era MOVAR vere also Inviced, and al1

ac Cienfuegos by 21002 on 24 Havesber, indi-

0d2100 pEO

05 Least some phase of chear

the Olentuagon area (2/SL/cuJ/120-63) -

Gol

Mi stary intelligence in che U.S,-

retes ("cateza de Plege aserica"), co

ed by the intercapt of

counterpart. to Duancerana

---

## Page 7

Doc ID: 6879105

Doc

ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176,

DECLASS.

PRES. JFK,

SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

OF

RECORDS

CONC.

THE

ASSASSINATIONS

OF

45200

77-19U)

Cides

OE S

2/LRL com

2/0/CURJJ/R66-63

adquarters in both

no Ortento sare placed in an alert statul

1 /296J (8/1RL/GUM/4267-63) -

at top

Let the Pilon (probably 19-551

Leo May tavealed. In a manage Eros che

Sieer

acca, Readquarters, Pilon, to chief

Brtea, on 25 Novesber 1963

ALL EAR DUGODO

tara, Post so the 10-250, has sultered one

dovolving a KOMAR, vessel In Cuba, At

26 Possuber the L0-250 ran aground while

elal, suscrining unconecollable leake.

Incindad cha CC-59, 30-11,

atteneed to bare vocked until 2715%, when

TRY couplace (2/05/CUN/R679-63

The 10:150: 1e now in drydock, presumably

43-53)

ALACTO was forced by passengero

3o on 26 Novenber. Fose persona

are caken asylun at che base bac

Chat. 15 parzona reundned at the

Cia ENDLEC10, The vessel ves

JaadLas to Calinanera

Зада: (8/124/CUM/8490, 186-63 ато

se diecteded chat 12 passengers and

• captata, zurained ae che Guantanac

5 an Ortente Province van

While no

alere, thare

on 25 Boredbut.

to a subordi»

percent of tea

has been the subject

position, These re-

ay208- Co. Calonas, the

pete Lirat noted in

ег (2/0/сш1/к195-63) •

That hy Naval

ada by U.b, asteract.

The

a lateral firing, air to

Tra deferaties mus

at sourees.

Thase sources

HATE

---

## Page 8

Doc ID: 6879105

Doc

ID: A4269466

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

PRES.

JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR.

MLK,

JR.

OF RECORDS

CONC. THE

ASSASSINATIONS

OF

PIRATAS

3.00

2/0/CURUJ/R66-63

ordered on 22 November to

22-50%

63-39™ to Intereept

directed to patrol fros

Bahta Konda and cher

Dent.

Apparently,

CHORE, succass since chere have bee

veRsala (2/0/CUN/R193-69 and

the Antt-Pirate Organization (LCP, LUCHA CONTRA

In the Beaceen as well as in the Central end

• Cuba when a Captain (FNU) PANTOJA, iden=

uthorised Che Inscallation of some

ornervation pont in che Western Naval

RODRIGUEZ

bas been noted as LCP Con»

ChoG Copt PINTOJA La Comander of the

lacal TOP connsnder La the

I LC2 Le probably subordinate to the

(2/0/C/13/156-63) .

T coe ncerranta povasant noted in the paciod

On 21 rovreber Entercept dlaclosed that the

it been opazating ous of Glenfuagos since

Seturn to Treos. On 29 Novenber the 1543 re-

acem Naval, District juriadictional waters.

on Clinterpe ens not oberoved

race Meing priscios vas held, probably in

tan 119002

500z to 16003. The fleing

• 05. kurthat then

as reported that an area

300

3 (0/S0 F00N /092-63

seters from the coast

D'a fig) were eceive in fartour proctices

Cle were trolved in K-2 techatque training

Оn 3008м

tour Lola partlespacad

Che Cabanas Martel area

512-60, 1682-63) -

Ma engaged in night

ratning of offleure

adar calibrarton tort

---

