# 144-10001-10206

## Page 1

TOP SECTET UMBRA DATE: 09/12/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY. INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10206

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM

LOUIS STOKES

TO : NSA

TITLE :

INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS OF KENNEDY AND KING

DATE

12/09/77

PAGES : is

SUBJECTS:

SENATE LTR 12/20/76

ANTONIO VECIANA

SEA ENUE 12736176 TELS HER CUBAN INTELLIGENCE:

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM/REPORT/LETTERS

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1A,

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

-m..

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,

Dated 3 September 1991

Declassify On:

Source Marked "OADR"

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

(unelesslied until filled)

ROUTING SLIP

P SECRE

SUSPENSE DATE

29

Dec 77

HOUR

FROM

Select Comm on Assassinations (Stokes)

TO

SUBJECT OR BRIEF OF CORRESPONDENCE (include llatira of lncio.)

DIRNSA

Request for information

DATE OF CORRESP.

FILE OR SERIAL NO.

REG. NUMBER

NO. COPIES

1

DATE RECEIVED

20

Dec . 77

INCOMING

INITIAL":

OUTGOING

ROUTE

1

2

DATE

FOR

A DIR

D/DIR

ADPL

EXREG

ROUTE

. 6

INITIAL

DATE

5

4 fam 18

5

ADLA

LAO

2

LAST

EXEC/DDO

GC

L221

вста

3 tom 7$

DO NOT FILE

RETURN TO L2

L2142

I. ACTION REQUIRED (complete items 1 thru 3)

1. PREPARED BY

EXT.

п.

• NO ACTION REQUIRED (il no action, sign below and

give org. and ext.) .

SIGNATURE (organliation end oxt.)

Julia Wetzel, U2

3161s

2.

TYPE

•JINITIAL LETTER

INTERIM REPLY

CHANGE ACTION (from)

(80)

3..

X] FINAL REPLY

OTHER (opocity in "REMARKS"".

bolow)

SERIAL

Deanne Siemer, General Counsel, DOD

REMARKS (It additional apaco la nacesary uno reverso)

Original & cys furnished

forwarded this date under

IN

control nos. LAO-006-78 & LAO-007-78 by undersigned 5

Pat Tarte ; 5 January 1978

Please send DoD General Cöunasl - Miss. Siemer

a copy of the incoming letter.

1-4

ROUTING LEGEND

FOR

OUT

1

ACTION

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

INFORMATION

EDITING

SIGNATURE

DISPATCH

2-4

Minsimer-221s

L221

7

RETAIN

TOP SECRET

VERIFIED (initial)

DATE

ROUTER (Initial)

EX REG

ROUTING SLIP NUMBER

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

?"

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHANDSON PREYER, N.C

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

VALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

PLOTPUTHIAN, IND.

ROSERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

X.5. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Vice Admiral B. R. Inman

Director

National Security Agency

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Dear Mr. Director:

The Select Committee on Assassinations was

established by the House of Representatives pursuant

to House Resolutions 222 and 433 to investigate the

assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and Dr.

Martin Luther King, Jr.

In conjunction with our

investigation into

the assassination of President

Kennedy, it has come to the Committee's attention that

the National Security Agency has information which

will be of substantial assistance to the Committee's

inquiry.

The information to which the Committee staff

needs access and which is held by the National Security

Agency is all outlines and summaries and biographical

data

relating to the Cuban Intelligence network of

Premier Castro covering the period from 1959 - December 31,

1964 with emphasis on operations by Cuban Intelligence

operatives in the United States and other Latin American

inter enter 32,

countries, and any analyses of the direction and evaluation

of specific assassination operations.

In addition, the Committee requests that it be

provided access to any other materials you have relevant

to the

assassination of President Kennedy or any

investigation

into the assassination.

Access to all

materials we will receive from the National Security

Agency will be restricted to staff members with a TOP

SECRET security clearance.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

Vice Admiral B. R. Inman

-2 -

The Committee requests that it be provided with

these materials as soon

as possible, and would very

much

appreciate it if we could receive such access prior to

the end of December.

Should you have any questions con-

cerning this request, please address

them to myself

or

our Chief Counsel, G. Robert Blakey.

LS: jwc

CC :

Louis Stokes

Chairman

Frank Foster

OfFice DE Legislative arraiss

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 5

Legislative Affairs

90x77

To: DIR

THRO: DIDIR

1. The Deguty Chief Crural

Ate Assaintins Chinther, Mr. 5.

wolf called to say he is sanding

a letter to DIR. Letter, do be

coulded Minday, will sequest

certain information (ungecifeil)

NSA.

2. Committe is isolignating acmetin

7. Joke

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 6

• Chief, Congressia

Activities

22 December 1976

Mr. Burke,

Attached is a request from the SSCI.

I have talked to Fred Cassedy at the FBI

and he says that the Committee is looking

into the Kennedy assassination

and that

the SSC provided Veciana's name.

I intend to contact Howard Liebengood

next week and will probably arrange for

the SSCI to review the document out here

at that time.

Fica

for ton

Joh

Mr Burke

oh,

say

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF

RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND

THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 7

DIATEL K. INOUNE, HAWAIT, CHAIRMEN

MILIAM D. MATHANAY, MAiNE

MELTER D. ELDESTON. KY.

USEPH R. BIDEN, IRA DEL-

RCEEST NOSTAR, M.C.

GIRY KART, COLS.

CLIFFORD P. CASE, NJ..

STROM T-URMOND, S.C.

MARK O. HATFIELO, OREG.

BARPY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

ROBERTE T. STAFFORD, VT.

JAKE SARY, UTAH

MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT., EX OFFICIO

HUGH SCOTT, PA., EX OFFICIO

WILLIAN G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

HONADO S. LIEBENGOOD, MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR

MICHAEL J. MADIGAN, MINORITY COUNSEL

United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 410, SATH CONGRESS)

WASHINSTON, D.C. 20510

December 20, 1976

SENSITIVE

IN REPLY PLEASE

REFER TO R# 5900

Mr.

Frank Foster

Legislative Affairs Office

National Security Agency

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Re: Document Request

Dear Frank:

We understand that you have been apprised of the

Select Committee's interest in an NSA document dated

29 November 1962 regarding a subject of interest to

the Committee, Mr. Antonio Veciana. If you would be

kind enough to contact me at an early convenient date

to discuss Committee access to such a document we

would be most appreciative.

Thank you for your ongoing assistance to the

Committee.

Sincerely,

Howard S. Liebengood

Minority Staff Director

HSL: mlh

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SENSITIVE

---

## Page 8

for

FBI

NOTE:

In response to the United States Senate Select

Committee (SSC) On Intelligence request #5724 re Antonio.

Yeciana, the attached document has been withheld from

SSC, (access onl})

Please advise how, if at all, NSA desires this

document to be described to the SSC so that SSC may then

obtain its own clearance from NSA for access to the

document.

3:24:

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

::

---

## Page 9

4 TOP. SECRET DINAR

Cuban

US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY

TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

CUIB-1

WS 36

3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

IS

29 NOV 62 P

28 Nov 62

FR : [U]

TO

[Puerto Rico]:

MSg NI: (M]

MISERAFINI

2

[XM] cautiousness and equanimity which you possess.

The

=i finery plan (1 wa G] ((A)) be-carried out after completing the

recruiting task and when the conditions exist.

MS 84

TI 28 NOV 62 12127

ER --

TO --

2. 1)

ON CUIS JOEY!

3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2

Eripper

PAGES

US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY

VATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

TOP SECRET DINA

PURSAU SOURCE - 6 - CutZ-

INDEXED

184-320 - 210-199-1

NOT RECHEDED

HAR 2 6 163

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 10

SECRET DINAR

Cuban

3/0/TRIG-CUI/I23-62

The plan for the execution of VECIANA ( (B)) and, ESTEVEZ( (C))

1s. less important than the other.. What information lào you have

about) plan PO ALPHA?

Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of

action againsE VECIANA.

Listen tomorion to the transmissions about the concrete

objectives. " End of message.

YMIKE

18 November (G]

((A)) C percent can.

((3)) ANTONIO/VECIANA. Puerto Rican spokesman for ALPHA 66.

( (C))

Probably GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in puerto Rico and

a member:of the coördinating committee of Cuban democratic

organizations in exile.

-2-

TIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

TOP SECRET DIVAR

BUREAU SOURCE: - 6 - CulTa

INDEXED

189-330-210--911

NOT FECORDED

WAR 2 6 1383

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 11

The SSC may obtain the attached document from NSA as

follows:

A classified document surfaced by the FBI which originated

from NSA contains the name of ANTONIO VECIANA. The document,

dated 29 November 1962, can be requested from Mr. Frank Foster,

Legislative Affairs Office, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 12

NAIDENTIAL

NSA requests that the attached document be described to

the Senate Select Committee as follows:

The document is classified TOP SECRET CODEWORD and can

be identified as 3/0/TRIG-CUI/-T23-62, dated 29 November

1962. It is a record obtained by NSA in the course of a

lawful foreign intelligence operation and makes mention

of an ANTONIO VECIANA. The SSC can obtain this document

from the NSA by requesting it from Mr. Frank Foster,

Legislative Affairs Office, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

20755.

MANDLE VIA COMINE GUMMIELS ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 13

5 January

Jerry,

We have sent copies to EXEC/DDO,

GC, V and G.

suggest that it should

also go to DIR & D/DIR.

None

John

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 14

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

DR. MLK, JR.

OF RECORDS CONC.

THE ASSASS

INATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV.

54

LIMDIS

292/m

2nt do ta bake

TOP SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

4 January 1977

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Inquiry

into the Assassinations

of Kennedy and King

1. On 30 December, the undersigned met with Howard

Liebengood, Deputy Staff Director of the SSCI staff and Tom

Moore, staff member.

The meeting was to permit the Committee

to read an NSA end-product report on Cuba in response to the

Committee's letter #5900 dated 20 December 1976. The Committee

staff members exhibited keen interest in the product and the

two Cuban national names contained therein. The Committee

staff also indicated that they intended to broaden the scope

of their inquiry and would forward to NSA another letter

(which has been received and is inclosed) requesting access

to all Cuban reports stored in the repository for the period

1961-1965.

2.

After the meeting, the undersigned contacted LIC Don

Bennett of Mr. Latimer's office to inform him of the first

letter since it had been sent directly to NSA. LTC Bennett

indicated that another Dod component had been asked for similar

information. As a result, LTC Bennett stated Mr. Latimer was

revising his earlier containing policy on providing to the

SSCI information on the assassinations and now had decided

on

a policy of full cooperation.

At Mr. Latimer's direction,

LTC Bennett will draft a letter to Staff Director Bill Miller

suggesting a meeting between the SSCI staff and Mr. Latimer's

staff; the meeting will focus on projected DoD responses to

the Committee's inquiry. NSA will be invited to attend these

meetings.

JOHN C. WOBENSMITH

Legislative Affairs

Incl:

Ltr dtd 30 Dec 76

CC :

EXEC/DDO

GC

V

G

ADLI

20

LAO

Exempt trong Car

Clossted by B1n20r/20:009 (209/03009 2852)

5103901-2

Declassity Upon Routestos by leo Origirator

Id (amon)

TOP SECRET

LIMDIS

MaLE US GEST CLAMELS CAT

455)

---

## Page 15

2a2.

DENIEL K-INOUYE, HAWAII, CHAIRMAN

•HOMARO M. BAKER, IR., TENN.. VICE CHAU

BIACH MAYH, IND.

ASLAI E. STEVENSON, 19., ILL.

WILLIANTS. HATRATAY, MAINE

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.

OSEPH R. BIDEN, 1R., DEL.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

GARY HART, COLO

STROM THUPMOND, S.C.

MANK O, HATFIELD, OREG.

EARRY COLOMATER, ARIZ.

ROBERT T. STAFFORD, VT.

JAKE GARN, UTAN

MIKE MANSFIELO, MONT., EX OFFICIO

HUGH SCOTT. PA., EX OFFICIO

WILLIAM S. MILLER, STAFF DIRESTOP

2202* 1.

MInited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 400, DITH CONGHESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 30,1976

IN REPLY PLEASE

REFER TO R#6009

Lieutenant General Lew Allen, Director

National Security Agency

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Dear General Allen:

The National Security Agency has recently provided the

Select Committee with certain intercept traffic relat-

ing to Cuba in November, 1962.

We found this material

most helpful to the Comnittee's efforts and would most

appreciate access to any and all such traffic remain-

ing extant at the National Security Agency.

Thank you for your ongoing assistance and cooperation.

Sincerely,

Howard H. Baker, Jr.

Vice Chairman

Classified by DiRMS9/CN063 (N93/299M 329-3)

Exempt from CDS, FD 21002, Cat -

Beclassily Upon Dis oation by the

Originator

RANELE VIA COLISE SLIMES ONLI

2273

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 16

(onclassified until filled)

ROUTING SLIP

KOENTRAN

SUSPENSE DATE

7 Jan 77

HOUR

FROM

•U. S. Senate (Baker)

SUSJECT OR SRIEF OF CORRESPONDENCE (include listing of incis.)

DIRNSA

Request for Access

DATE OF CORRESP

3:30

Dec :76

FILE OR SERI

10: 6009:

REG.

NUMBER

NO. COPIES

My 6r

DATE

4,4

RECEIVED

Jan

77

OUTGOING

FOR

ROUTE

INCOMING

INITIAL

DATE

ROUTE

INITIAL

DATE

12216

4

9789

DIR.*•

D/DIR-?

ADPL

EX REG

ADLL

*3X 27.48

N0200%6s

L221

L2142.*1

II.

LAST

DO NOT

FILE

RETURN TO L2

LACTION REQUIRED (complete items 1 thru 3)

BY

7P2: 34330

LINITIAL LETTER

INTERIM. REPLY

I FINAL REPLY

OTHER (spocity in "'REMARK

_ NO ACTION REQUIRED (if no action, sign below and

#, give org. and ext.

SIGNATURE (organization end oxt.) j

GE

ACTION (from)

ROUTEX RẾG

EX

DATE

4 Jan 77

(to)

SERIAL

ROUTING LEGEND

-i • FOR

ACTION

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE ::

INFORMATION.

EDITING

SIGNATURE

DISPATCH

FILE

RETAIN

ROUTING ODE NUMBER

OUT

(Dedettity Upon Removal

c? laciocures

CONPIOENT

VERIFIED (initial)

IN

5

1-4

L221

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

