# 144-10001-10362

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879047

DORTOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10362

DATE: 10/09/9

PAGE:

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

: HCF

TITLE

3/0/IAD/T96-64 REPORT ON CASTRO'S TELEVISION SPEECH REGARDING PRESIDEN

PAGES

AGES : 01/20/64

SUBJECTS.

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

PENING CRITERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS :

-[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5, X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JEK,

SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879047

Doc Ref ID: A4269395

45359₴

folder TOI

Indonesian

TOP SECRET DINAR

IADH-51A

WS 3- HVJ-42

3/0/ IAD/T96-64

IS 20 Jan 2259Z F

Dist:

HCF

REPORT ON CASTRO'S TELEVISION SPEECH REGARDING PRESIDENT

KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION

FR Havana:

INDONESIA

TO Djakarta: DEPARLU

Msg NI:

42

24 Nov 63

--

For: First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Info: North American Directorate.

From: NABI.

No. 29.

1. In connection with the accusations in the U.S. press

that OSWALD, accused of assassinating KENNEDY, was a pro-CASTRO

communist, Prime Minister CASTRO spoke before

Cuban television,

a summary of which follows.

2. Cuba is remorseful and has gained no advantage by the

assassination of KENNEDY.

3. The accusations of the U,S. press have no foundations

whatsoever, and are only the activities of the ultra reactionary

group in the U.S. whose intentions are to depreciate the names

of Cuba and the

Soviet Union.

4. CASTRO thinks that JOHNSON will not be as strong as

KENNEDY since he was not elected president by! the people directly.

He will not be as influential as KENNEDY in damning up the

strength of the ultra reactionaries in the U.S. who pursue

policies which are extremely hostile and very dangerous to the

Soviet Union and Cuba.

Indonesian

3/0/IAD/I96-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

-

Doc ID: 6879047

Doc Ref ID: A4269395

TOP SECRET DINAR

Indonesian

3/0/ LAD/T96-64

5. In short, that was the speech,

The interesting thing is that while the Soviet Union

only answered these accusations with an article in the

newspaper and expressed their sorrow in a meaningful manner

by sending Deputy Prime Minister MIKOYAN to Washington, CASTRO

considered it necessary to answer the accusations of the U.s.

press officially as Prime Minister in a speech at a time when

friends and enemies of the U.S. generally were expressing their

respect for KENNEDY. Also interesting is the fact that he not

only defended Cuba but the Soviet Union as well.

MS .0

CN ILC

TI

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

