# 144-10001-10088

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878912

STOP SECRET UMBRPAE:13/26/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

• 144-10001-10088

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

: NSA

TO : HCO

[R]

3/0/ARD/T554-637 BULGARIAN REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

DATE

PAGES : 12/31/63

BULGARIA

REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

ARGENTINA,

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

DOCSMENTA TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R]

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc.ID: 6878912

Argentine

• TOP SECRET DINAR

-

Joc Ref ID: A4268716

ARDV- 3

WS 637

3/0/ARD/T554-63

IS 31 Dec 63

Dist: HCO

ST 300

BULGARIAN REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Sofia: FERREYRA

TO

Buenos Aires: Foreign Ministry

Msg No:

50

26 Nov 63

The [Bulgarian] Government presented official condolences

to the United States Government on the assassination of

President KENNEDY.

The Minister of Foreign Affairs visited the

United States Minister for the same purpose.

The people received the news with surprise and regret.

The local television station repeated via Moscow the burial

services

in the United States. The press of this country

eulogized the personality of the late President as a supporter

of peace, attributing his death to an ultrarightist group.

All the diplomatic missions flew their flags at half-

mast - the Soviets with black crape -- with the exception of

Communist China.

Religious services held in Sofia were

attended by representatives of all the diplomatic missions.

MS 974

Argentine

CN ILC

TI --

3/0/ARD/I554-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

