# 144-10001-10168

## Page 1

-

Doc ID: 6879066

-SECRET MORAY

Doc Ref ID: A4269440

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

--=

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10168

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 09/11/97

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

: NSA

TO : HCO

TITLE:

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63 HAVANA VERIFIES OSWALDS REQUEST/TRANSIT VISA/RUSSIA

ALE: 11/26/6

AGE

SUBJECTS :

VISA NEVER GRANTED

ERT

CLASSMENCATION REPORT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S

DETERMINATION REQUIRED

CONTAINS SENSITIVE

COMMENTS COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From:

Declassify On:

NSA/CSSM 123-2,

Dated 3 September 1991

Source Marked "OADR"

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

-SECRET MORAY

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879066

Doc Ref ID: A4269440

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63

IS 28 Nov 1949Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

SECRET

0/27247-63

MINREX, HAVANA VERIFIES OSWALD'S REQUEST FOR TRANSIT VISA FOR RUSSIA

FR Havana: MINREX

TO Circular [Warsaw:

Cuban Embassy] ((A))

26 Nov 63

- co

Msg NI:

7482

MINREX reported yesterday that the information in the newspaper

Excelcior of Mexico City concerning LEE OSWALD's request for a transit

visa to go to the USSR, which was requested from the Cuban Consulate

in Merida, is true. This visa was requested 27 September from said

consulate, which stated that it could not grant the visa without

permission of MINREX, and unless permission had been granted pre

viously by the country of destination. OSWALD gave up annoying the

consulate, and the visa was never granted.

This detail, and others, confirm the suspicion that the KENNEDY

assassination was a provocation against world peace by the most re

actionary sectors. It is evident that these sectors planned

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRE

PAGE 1.

_of_22_ PAGE(s)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 19

Cuban

CN ILC

CUDY

TI 27 Nov 63 1307Z

WS 17303

2x/0/CUD/T2440-63

0/27247-63

PAGE 1 • 1

PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6879066

Doc Ref ID: A4269440

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63

BRT.

SECKEL

0/27247-63

beforehand to involve Cuba and the USSR in the acts. The inconceiv

able impunity of a person who, with a known police record could

murder OSWALD in the presence of the police in a prison basement,

demonstrates the scandalous meane which reactionary forces are

using in the United States to cover up the perpetrators and the

motives for KENNEDY's assassination. World-wide public opinion

demands a clarification of the facts. It is absurd that the Dallas

District Attorney is closing the case of the death of the President

scarcely 48 hours after the deed.

((A)) Same text sent to Cuban Embassies in Conakry, Prague, Accra,

Cairo and Algiers. Similar test sent to Cuban Embassy

Mexico City.

GROUP 1

DIETEL

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

NEE

DOENGZADING AND TZCLASSIFICATION

PAGE 2

of _

_PAGE(s)

PAGE 2.

_of_?

PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

