# 144-10001-10285

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878945

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

144-10001-10285

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

: HCF

2X/0/CED/T02-64 CAMBODIAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS EXPLAINED TO CAMBODIAN AM

PAGES : 01/01/64

SUBJECTS:

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSMENCATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

PENING CRITERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS :

IR1 - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

10285

• Dóc 1D: 6878945

Doc Ref ID: A4268790.

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CED/T$2-64

IS D15Jan 1432Z

Dist:

HCF

SECRET

CAMBODIAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS EXPIAINED TO

CAMBODIAN AMBASSADOR IN INDIA:

FR Phnom Penh: MINAFERES

TO New Delhi: AMBAKHMER :

0/6852-64

1 Jan 64 1224.

-

558/DGP

Please refute the following: 1) American aid is dangerous

because it is conditional. Please read His Royal Highness' articles

published in the Nationalist [Nyeak Cheat Niyuml on 1 and 8 December

1963. American-Cambodian relations have deteriorated because of

the injustice of the American Administration, aggravated by the

accusation against Cambodia following the death of President KENNEDY

and by the American refusal to guarantee Cambodian neutrality and

integrity. 2) The closing of the Cambodian Embassy in London is not

a political measure but an economic one. Relations between our two

countries will continue and the British Ambassador in Phnom Penh

has been so informed.

GROUP - 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC —

SECRET

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE _ 1

_ of_ 1_ PAGE(s)

MS

57

CN ILC

TI 1 Jan 64 15302

Cambodian

P/L

[French]

WS 31-CXX-0164

2X/0/CED/TD2-64

0/6052-64

PAGE_ 1_ Of 1 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

