# 144-10001-10264

## Page 1

•Đóc ID: 6878948

DATE: 01/26/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER :

144-10001-10264

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

NSA

TITLE

ACTIONS TAKEN BY NSA TO LOCATE JFK ASSASSINATION INFORMATION

ATE

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC MESSAGES®

[R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : CABLES (USE FOR CABLES, TELEGRAMS, WIRES, AIRGRAMS)

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : Ô7/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From:

Declassify On:

NSAYCSSM 123-2,

Datéd 3 September 1991

Source Marked "OADR".

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

PARAPET A BARA PROBABARE NAA.-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

4 20 8 B1a 6

---

## Page 2

: Doc ID: 6878948:•

• TOR SECRE®

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

15 June 1978

SUBJECT: Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Related

to the Assassination of President Kennedy

A. Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NSA has

performed a number of separate in-depth reviews of materials in

its files

in an attempt to isolate data that might be relevant

to the assassination of President Kennedy. Nothing of significance

has been determined as a result of those reviews.

1. November-December 1963 - Immediately after the

assassination, NSAinitiated a large-scale manual and machine

review of available SIGINt, including all U.S./ Cupa traffic (NSA

intercepted messages at an average of 1,000 per day at that time.

1 computer search was initiated using Oswald's name as the minimun

for research criteria. Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/New

Orleans and Cuba/Dallas was manually reviewed (an analyst involved

recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,

along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet traffic). Sometime

during the search, items from the Oswald address book

provided by

the FBI were added to the search criteria.

2.

1964 - Warren Commission - The Commission, in the

person of Allan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits for any

secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the

documents.

It also appears that NSA searched records

for information

on the basis of other Warren Commission requests made informally

by Allen Dulles.

3. November 1975 - Senate Select Committee to Study

Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) :

In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,

NSA

reviewed its Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military.

The search was also for material involving Marina Oswald, Jack Ruby

or Earl Ruby (a Harvest run was made) • Mexican traffic was also

reviewed, looking for information concerning Oswald's visit to

Mexico.

4.

June 1976 - Pursuant to FOIA requests asking for

material relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6878948: •

PISECRE

of President John F. Kennedy, NSA again searched the files.

Strongbox searches were made on the following:

Lee Harvey Oswald

1966 - 1976

Assassination of

President Kennedy

Earl Ruby

Cobo Cleaners

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1977

1966 - 1977

5.

December 1976 - Senate Select Committee on Intelli-

gence (SSCI) - Requested all the material we had available on the

Cuban agent problem.

It consisted of 485 reports for the period

1961 - 1965. All of these reports were received by Committee

Staff Members.

6.

March 1978 - House Select Committee on Assassinations -

Requested all data on Cuban intelligence network and other materials

relating to the Assassination.

All Cuban agent material (1961 - 1964)

was reviewed, as was material that had been previously compiled to

respond to the SSCI and SSC requests.

As a result of the reviews described above, the following

materials which may have some relevance to the assassination were

located (referenced material inclosed at numbered tabs) :

1. Four Cuban diplomatic messages which contained

official Cuban comments regarding press items that discussed Oswald's

activity in late September 1963 to obtain a visa to travel to

MOSCOW •

There were also comments on the assassination itself.

The messages are dated in the last week of November 1963.

2. Three Cuban military reports which show that Cuban

military forces did go on alert immediately after the assassination.

3.

One 1962 Cuban Intelligence message concerning the

assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto

Rico) SERAFIN.

4. One 1966 Cuban Diplomatic message concerning a Spanish

diplomat in Cuba. It referenced a 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate

an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against Raul Castro Ruz, possibly

linking it to the CIA.

5. Information in an FBI document relating to a French

Intelligence agent was supplied by NSA.

Because this document

was to be turned over to the HASC, there may be some relation

to the assassination.

6. One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim

Garrison's investigation of both the

Kennedy Assassination and

David W.

Ferrie.

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 6878948

• TOR SECRE

Based on these extensive reviews and the paucity of

material derived, it is possible to state that:

"A thorough

review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or

suggesting. Cuban involvement in the assassination of President

Kennedy. "

Eugeiet. Yeate

EUGENE F. YEATES

Chief

Incl:

a/s

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

3

Released pursuant to Executive Order

14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 5

Doc iD: 6878948 -

It seems to me that this summary should now be used

as the basis for advising

Mr. Blakey that we have reviewed all our holdings and have found nothing

directly (or even indirectly) relevant to his investigation.

Sene

EUGENE F. YEATES

Incl:

a/s

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

2

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 6

Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

Cuban

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUDY

•WS 17277

3/0/CUD/T2394-63

IS 26 Now 201S2 P:

Dist: HCF

ST 300

CUBAN STATEMENT ON VISA FOR OSWALD

FR Havana:

TO

New York:

Msg. Nr:

7469

RAUL. ROA

25 Nov 63

Cubari Mission to the UN

am reproducing below the note given to the press by the

Ministry:

With relation to the informat on published today in the

newspaper Excalsion in Mexico City,

affining that LEF HARVEY:

OSWALD had requested a transit visa for travel to the Soviet

Union at the Cuban Consulate ir. Mexico In September, the Cabar

Government requested information from the officials of our

Consulate in that city confirming that it is certain that

MK:. LEE HARVEY OSWALD requested the transit visa for travel to

the Soviet Union on 27 September in the said Consulate.

Or being informed by

• ?.

the consular officials that their

office could not grant. such a visa without the authorization.

of the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations, which Likewise

would not grant it if it was not previously

authorized by the

country of destination, Mr. OSWALD left the Consulate visiöly

disgusted.

The said visa was never granted.

This detail, in connection with the other circumstance i

that surround the facts, confirm our suspicion that the

assaegination of KENNEDY was a provocation against world peace,

of the United States:

perfectly and thoroughly planned by the most reartionary segtors

Cuban

3/0/cm/г1 384-63:

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

TO 462026

Released

pursuant to

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. RFK, AND THE

REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 7

ID: 6

TOP SECRET DINARE

Cuban

3/0/CUD/Tt384-63/

It is evident that these sectors planned beforehand to

involve Cuba and the Soviet Union in these deeds:

The inconceivable and irexplicable impunity with which an

individual of known penal antecodents assassinated OSWALD, the:

principal accused of the assassination of President KENNEDY, 1o

the presence of the police themselves and in the (5G) of a

prison, demonstrates in a scandalous and indisputable marner:

chat the powerful reactionary politienl forces within the

United States are making use of all cheir resources

and influences

• In order to conceal chose who master-minded KENNEDY's assassination,

and the true motives for it.

World public opinion demands the enlightening of the deeds.

It is absurd that the political authorities and the prosecuting.

attorney of Dallas have declared that the case is closed

Regards.

MS

CN

II

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 8

Dọc 1D: 6878948

Doc-Ref-ID: A4268657

SECRET SABRE

2X/ 0/CUD/T2456-65

IS 29 NoV. 2223Z ?

Dist:

"CE

ST 300

SECRET

0/27282-63

CISTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION AND CUBAN

ECONOMY

FR : Havana :

Foreign Ministry

-TO: Accra: Cuban Embassy ((A))

Msg Nr: 7555

28 Nov 63

FIDEL stated, "Events are demonstrating the sinister piot

behind the assassination of KENNEDY.

Contradictions show that

OSWALD was made the culprit by the police or was prepared to

cormit the act with promise of escape, and was assigned activities

so as to have responsibility fall on or be insinuated against

those whom the perpetrators wished. It is clear that United

States reactionaries tried to make Cuba and the world the victims

of their criminal designs, even at the price of assasinating

their own president.

They sent OSWALD to Mexico to request

a transit visa to Cuba for later travel to the USSR. Imagine

the president's assasin just retuming. from the USSR and

GROUP 1

PAGE 1 0 3 PACE(S)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECIASSIFICATION

Hot Ms 19

Cuban

CN ILC TI. 29. Nov 63 0810Z

CUDY

WS 17312:

2x/0/CUD/52456-63

0/27282-63

PAGE

3

PAGECeS

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 9

* Doc ID: 6878948

CoRe ID A1203657

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63

SECRET

0, 27232-63

passing through Cuba.

The visa to the USSR he could have

requested from the ncarest Ei ropean country ind not have to come

to Cuba to later go to the USüR, which is much farther.

=:"

He also said, "By 1970 we will be in condition to surpass

10 million tons of sugar and to export it. The economy begins

to improve solidly.. We have sugar sold at close to 10 centavos.

oỵ 1965 and 1966. There shortly will be a noible increase in

neats and other articles. At the year's end, nougats, wine

and grapes will reappear as the result of the development of

foreign trade.

GROUP I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DORNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE_ 2

PAGE 2 0_3

PAGE(a)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 10

ốc Ret IP: A 4268

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/ T2456-63

SECRET

0/27282-63

((A)) This 1s a circular message sent also to Cubar Diplomatic

Missions in Algiers, Athens, Bamako, Beirut, Belgrade,

Berlin, Bern, Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Cairo,

Colombo, Conakry, Copenhagen, Djakarta, Hanoi, HelsinkI,

Karachi, Lisbon, London, Moscow, New Delhi, Oslo, Paris,

Peking, Prague, Pyongyang, Rabat, Rome,

Sai,tlago,

Sofia,

Tel Aviv, The Hague,, Tokyo, Ulan Bätor, Vatican City, and

Vienna:

GROUP: 1

EXCLUDED FROM. AUTOMATIC

SECRET

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE _ 3

'of".

3 :

_ PAGE(s)

PAGE

PAGE(O)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 11

Doc ID: 6878948

Dơc Ref ID: A4268657

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2545-03

IS

14 Dec 6.3

P

Dist: HCO

ST

300

3150

0/27786-63

GHANAIAN. PRESS EMPHASIZING CUBAN COMMENTARIES ON DEATH OF PRESIDENTIAL

ASSASSIN-

FR

TO

Msg

Accrai: ENTRALGO

Havana:

Foreign Ministry

Nr: .. GH-214

30 Nov 63

The Ghanaian press emphasized in the headlines of the first.

cuba On 29 Novenber, the commentaries of the Prime inister of

concerning. the death of OSWALD.

GROUP 1

*EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET

DOWNGRADING: AND DECLASSIFICATION:

7 PAGE

_PAGE(3)

MS UKF- 120

•Cuban

CUDY

CN

ILC

TI.

ws 17344

2X/0/CUD/T2545-63

0/27780-63

PAGE

of1

SECRET SABRE

PAGE(r)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

JFK,

---

## Page 12

Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63

IS 28 Nov 1949: P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

SECRET

7121247-43

MINREX, HAVANA VERTFIES OSWALD': REOGEST POR TRANSTY VISA FOR RUSSLA

FR Havana: MINREX

TO Circular (warsaw; Cuban Embassyl ((x))

7S8 Nx: 7482

25 Nov 63

MINREX reported yesterday that the information in the newspaper

Excelcior of Mexico Cily concerning LEE OSWALD's reques: for a ecarsie

visa to go to the USSR, which was requested from the Cuban Consulate

in Merida, is true.

This visa was requested 27 September from said

consulate, which stated that it could not grant the visa without

permission of MINREX, and unless permission had been grented pre-

viously by the country of destination. OsWALD gave up aunpying the

consulate, and the visa was never granted,

This detail; and others, confirm the suspicion that the KENNEDY

assassination was a provocation against world peace by the most re

actionary sectors. It is evident that these sectors planned

GROUP L

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET

+f

DOKNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

Pis

19

Cuban

CN ILC

CUDY

TI

27 Nov 63 13072.

W5 17303

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63

0/27247-63

PAGE 1

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant

to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

REK,

AND THE

REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 13

Đọc TD: 6878948

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63

0/27247-63

beforehand to invoive Cuba and the USSR in the ac*g. The inconceiv.

able impunity of a person who, with a know police record could

wurder OSWALD in the

presence of the police in a prison basement,

demonstrates the scandalous means which reactionary forces äre

using in the United States to cover Up the perpetrators and the

motives for KENNEDY's assassination. World wide public opinion

demands a clarificarion of the facts. le is ai

urd that the Dallas

District Attorney is closing the case of the deach of she President

scarcely 48 hours after the deed.

((A)) Same text sent to Cuban Embassies in Conairy, Prague, Accra,

Cairo and Alglers.. Similar text sent to Cuban Embassy

Mexico City.

GROUP 1.

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET

DOMIC RADDLE AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE L

- PAGE(s)

PAGE

SECRET SABRE

PAGE(=)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 14

-Doe 12: 68

Dog Ret 1D: 44268657

SECRET KIMBO

UT

2/0/CUJ/P58-63

26 Nov 63 20192

DIST: 0/WA

ST 250

ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE IERHINATED

The alert in Oriente Province (see 2/0/CU1l/R196-63) 13 bao

lieved to la terminaceus

The alert, apparently prospied by

Preildant Kaanan's death on 22. Novenber, was possibly pre-

scheduled to teraigate on 25 dlovenbar.. There have been two ordera

wnich suggest that the alert was destined to ba concluded on

25 lovenber; they are:

::1) Access: to the Coastal Observation Post at Punta

Kalsi (20-15N 74-0S1)) was restricted until 25 Noveaber because

of the alezt (see 2/QS/CU3/R667-53); and

2) Subordinates of Bines, Readquarters Rastem Naval

District, were so recelva furtier orders on the 25th, presumably.

conceming their alert status (210(CUu/r126-53); no such orders

hare been noted in conications.

Theze hare been no further references in intercepted comani-

cations to the alert since 02227 on 23 Novenuer (2/Q5/CUN/R667-63) •

It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation

Fost at furta faisi extends to other Observation Posts in Oriente

Province such as reported on 23 lovesher when Flest Argy Coastal

Observation Posts here placed li an alett status

[21: 21/001/P139-53), aud that the restriction was to be lifted on

25 loveaber by all those posts.

Further indication that the alert has teminated is the fact

Inc the Cuisan Nary was engaged Inan island ride comunications

It Is considered unlikely that such an.

exercise muld be cunducted unier alert corditions.

There barn been no furtier referencos to the alert status

of the do percent santiago in Cuba) units which mis flast ub-

3OVEй ON 23 903293er (2/31/CHA/805-63). 112 CRAF and Soviet

Forces Cuba concunicialons appen to be neroni during this

pealad, 22-26 lovealer 1963.

11:T: OOM 81US CO 230 Kid

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 15

DOC d0: 68789487

Doc ReTIe A4268

SECRET KIMBO

2/0/cu1/3196-63

25 nợu 63: 18152

DIST: 0/101/100

ST. 250%0

LAED, 23 NOWHERE

As a regina of chocent ot resens estabe, cal adre

20442

22 moveder tri

MAG 2237200, 23, roverbero cho alert man xelared a castalo

degree by Basess

a, subozctreta

to giva Leave to 25 percent of chels peptermal:

Surther orders toula baoschcoming

313484

the note Chas suare.

Anstractices souta: be sanen"

bas bean das-ed for

(CA)D: (2/22/CON/201-5312/95/903/2555R55a,

{28667-83)

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 16

31132274

DoC ID: 6873948

Doc Ref ID: AI

2/0/cun03/285-33

53, 12л3

63)

19-34

Ca

792.920

75÷63

were catcaston ans

Hares one

of mortion bose tere

30-.

ports sina 615, 202230

MAR CASE TO ReLA

see an true

Boa bran cau subject

mic on

The ca

no espera cara sies concio

57219923)1

150 г

The cannie son Bas2

Baadque Sona de Layina Beat

ten 22 to 30 foremen a cope

Loss ot

232

mooni splinted

Palacesea, 570

C9 DiE on

ST 2523$ Rouse

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 17

ni Đoc IĐ: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

• TOP SECRET DINAR

Cuban

US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY

TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

CUIB-1

WS 35

3/0/TRIG-CJI/I23-62

IS 29 NOV 62 P

28 Nov 62

--

FR

(U]

TO

[Puerto Rico]:

/(SERAFIN]

Msg NI: [M]

[x) cautiousness and equanimity which you possess.

The

'finery plan [1 wa G] ((A)) be-carried out after completing the

recruiting task and when

the conditions exist.

MS 84

TI 28 NOV 62

12127

ER --

TO -

CN CUIS JO0E1

3/0/TRIG-CUI/223-62

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

US/UK CANADA EYES ONLY

VATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

TOP SECRET DIXA

BURGAU SOURCE

-Centen

INDEXED

1 84-329 - 30.-

NOT PEGGESTO

wards

VXR 20 1951

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 18

Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

entent,

SECRET DINAR

cuban

3/0/ TRIG-CUI/T23-62

The plan for the execution Of VECIANA((B)) and ESTEVEZ ( (C))

Is less Important than the other. What information lao you have

about) plan PO ALPHA?

Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of

action against VECIANA.

Liseen tomorion to the transmissions about the concrete

objcctives. End of message.

YMIKE

18 November (XG]

((à)) C percent can.

((3)) ANTONIORICIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman fOr ALPHA 66.

((C)) PrObAbLY GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in Puerto Rico ana

a member: of the coördinating committee of Cuban democratic

organizations in exile.

-2-

IONAL SECURITY AGENCY

TOP SECRET, DIXIR

REAU SOURCE - É - CURE

INDEXED

184-330-210--11-1

NOT FECORDED

WAR 26

1963

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES.

JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE

REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 19

• =

Doc ID: 6878948

251513V6

Doc Ret ID: 44268657

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: SSCI Request for Document re Antonio Veciana

30 December 1976

In response to the inclosed 20 December request from

the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, on this date

I showed the NSA product on Antonio Veciana, 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T23-62

dated 29 November 1962, to SSCI staffers Tom Moore and Howard

Liebengood. They were quite interested in this message and

a reference to "Serafin."

They indicated that the Committee

would request a review of all Cuban material for the period

1961-1965.

JOHN C. WOBENSMITH

Legislative Affairs

LAO

3 Incls:

1.

SSCI ltr dtd 20 Dec 76

2.

Product

3.

Backup

• ,"

Exop from 009 5=49029. 0rt--1-

Doslossily Coon Trac Tos 1y Go Orgra895

SED:2

1032

17"3717

1113

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 20

• Doc ID: 6878948

SECRET LATE

•: Doc Ref ID: A4268657:

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

IS 03 Jun 1955Z P

Dist: HCF

SECRET

0/15748-66

SPANISH COUNSELOR IN HAVANA DECLARED PERSONA NON GRATA

FR

Havana: ROA

TO

Madrid: CALZADILLA, Cuban

Embassy

Msg NI: 2301

28 May 66

Urgent

2, 3. 4:

I am transcribing below, for your information and for

appropriate purposes, the text of the note delivered this morning,

Saturday, to the Spainish Embassy in Cuba.

"Havana, 28 May 1966

"Charge d'Affaires:

"I have the honor of addressing you on a matter which the

Government of Cuba considers of the utmost importance and gravity,

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

SECRET

BUREAU SOURCE - 6-Culia

1 64-330-210-4-6652

Ja 1 4 1966

NOT RECORDED

MS UKG-108

Cuban

CN• ILC

CUDY

in an

5*

WS 42637

INDEXED

PAGE 1

of 12

PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 21

' Doc ID: 6878948

2x/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECRET

0/15748-66

since it deals with crimes that have been committed and activities

that have been carried out against the integrity and stability

of the state by Mr. JAIME CALDEVILLA Y GARCIA VILLAR, Press

Counselor of the Spanish: Embassy, who intolerably abused

the

diplomatic immunity and privileges granted him and used them

for purposes, like those cited, that are very different from the

functions assigned to him.

"With the purpose of documenting what has already been

indicated, I take the liberty of informing you below in detail, of

the charges which have been brought against Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,

proved in an authentic and irrefutable manner, and which compel

us to formally and expressly request his imnediate departure from

the country persona non grata.

"The main activites of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA are

directed toward the search, by illicit means, for information of a

PAGE

SECREI

12

PAGE(s)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECTASSIEICATION

2

PAGE

of

12

PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 22

Doc ID: 6878948

USECRET LABETI

Doc Ref ID: A4268657°

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECRET

0/15748-66

military, economic and political nature, the fulfillment of tasks

of ideological diversionism and the recruitment of agents and

counterrevolutionaries for the Central Intelligence Agency, tasks

in which he has availed himself of the very close collaboration of

his secretary, Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ ((A) ).

"Since February 1959, Counselor CALDEVILLA has undertaken the

Job oI recruiting members of the then Rebel Army, among them the

traitor ALDO VERA((A)), MARIO MARRERO((A)), and AGUSTIN PARRADA( (A) ) .

The latter, once his activities were discovered, found it propitious

to flee the country to avoid prosecution.

"Along this same line, he also used the aforementioned Miss

CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, instructing her to infiltrate student

organizations for the purpose of creating diversionism in the

ideological order, and she established, for this purpose, intimate

relations with Mr. PEDRO LUIS BOITELL (A)); ex-President of the

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

of

state

PAGE 3

- 12.

PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 23

• Doc ID: 6878948

SECRET LARUS

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

ECRET

0/15748-66

University of Havana School of Engineering. When the latter was

arrested and sentenced to imprisonment on the Isle of Pines,

Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ went there and carried out military and political

espionage activities. The data and information that she obtained

on that occasion were transmitted to

Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,

and included microfilms.

"In February 1960 Counselo: CALDEVILLA conceived a plan for

an attempt against the life of the then First Deputy Chairman of

the Union of Soviet. Socialist Republics, Mr. ANASTAS MIKOYAN,.

a guest in Cuba, for which purpose he delivered arms to a group

of counterrevolutionarly elements.

It was not executed, according

to what Counselor CALDEVILLA himself claims, because of the

cowardice of the assassins, He also sought refuge and protection in

the home of his collaborator JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ((A)), FOI MI. ISRAEL

ZAMORA PEREZ ((A)), a fugitive from Cuban authorities

for plotting

an attempt against the life of the Vice Prime Minister and Minister

of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, Conmander RAUL CASTRO RUZ,

GROUP 1

SECRET

PAGE

_PAGEIS)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

-DONGRADING AND DECLASSTEICATION

+ *÷

PAGE

of

- 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 24

Doc ID: 6878948

ISCRET LAI

Doc Ref ID: A4268657 *

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

CRE

0/15748-66

as well as a plan to create an incident at the United States Naval

Base at Guantanamo. Later, Counselor CALDEVILLA arranged for the

mentioned ISRAEL ZAMORA PEREZ to take asylum in the Colombian

Embassy in Havana.

"In May 1962 he instructed his agents CARMEN JIMENEZ GARCIA

and ALFREDO SERRÁ ECHEVARRIA((A)), an accountant at the Embassy,

as

well as other individuals, to intiltrate difterent organizations

and offices of the Cuban State. The former went to work in the

offices of the National College of Architects, where she established

contacts with numerous professionals. to induce them to desert, as

well as to obtain data and intormation from the Congress of the

International Union of Architects, where she worked as a simultaneous

interpreter.

"The latter worked at the National Institute of Agrarian Reform

where, if a break in diplomatic relations between Spain and Cuba

occurred, he would be in charge of obtaining confidential information

GROUP 1

PAGE 5 °F- 12 PAGE(S)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

5 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUN

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 25

Doc ID: 6878948

SECRET LA

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

T.)

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECRET

0/15748-66

to supply to the enemy. In July and October of 1962 he distributed

corespondence with instructions, received by diplomatic pouch,

for the counterrevolutionary organization, the Revolutionary

Student Directorate with which he maintained close relations

through BLANCA MARTINEZ DEL FOYO((A)), JORCE MEDINA BRINGUIER ( (A)),

and LUIS FERNANDEZ ROCHA( (A)) .

The first two were national coordinators

for civic resistance and strengthening of the Revolutionary Student

Directorate, and the latter, a CIA agent.

"It has also been proved that Counselor CALDEVILLA's wife,

at his suggestion, has maintained relations with relatives of

political prisoners and counterrevolutionaries, inciting them to

send letters of protest to foreign embassies and international

organizations.

"On the occasion of the arrest of counterrevolutionary GENARO

FERNANDEZ. FOLGUEIRAS, national leader of the counterrevolutionary

organization, the National Union of Revolutionary Institutions, he

PAGE 6 ° 12 PAGE(s)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

ECRET

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

6 of 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 26

Doc ID: 6878948

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECRETT

0/15748-66

stated and offered evidence that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA was

to recruit him and give him training in arms and explosives, even

within the Spanish Embassy, and instruct him in organizing an

espionage network for the illicit procurement of military, economic

and political information and in penetrating the Cuban-Spanish

Friendship Society, whose building he was to occupy in the event

the United States Government launched an armed aggression against

Cuba. He was to be given arms and equipment at the opportune

moment. In like manner FOLGUEIRAS was instructed by the forner

to distribute arms and relay guidance to counterrevolutionary

groups in the event of this aggression. The espionage ring organized

by the aforementioned is made up of eight persons who receive for said

task the amount of 250.00 US dollars monthly and the promise of

a deposit of 500,00 US dollars' in an accoutt in their names in a

Miami bank.

"Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, for her part, was entrusted by

Counselor CALDEVILIA with the mission of directing an extensive

PAGE 7 12

REIL

- PAGE(S)

GROUP I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DONCHADIGAD DECISION

PAGE

7

of 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE

REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 27

Doc ID: 6878948

USECRET LADITI

. Doc Ref ID: A4268657•

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECRET

0/15748-66

espionage network in various State organizations, such as the

Ministries of the Sugar Industry, Industries, Foreign Trade and

Education, and the National Bank of Cuba. Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ,

on one occasion, supplied him with a directive of the nickel industry

as well as a plan and a report with specifications on the type of

arms, location, and personnel of the military installations of Managua

and Matanzas which were delivered by LUIS ANTONIO COLLAZO DENNISN( (A)) ,

who is a deserter from the Armed Forces.

"In April 1963,

when the Achives was pentrated by CIA agent

RAMON GRAU ALSIN((A)) who directed an espionage ring, a note was

found which confirmed that a certain message had been deliverer to

Counselor CALDEVILLA. In June of the same year, photostatic copies

of the motions of the Student Congress on the Struggle of Peoples

Against Colonialism were delivered to him by CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ.

"During the celebration in Havana of the First Solidarity

Conference of the Peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America,

GROUP 1

PAGE 8. 0

- 120 PAGE(s)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

ECREI

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 8 0 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 28

*Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657 •

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECRET

0/15748-66

Counselor CALDEVILLA attempted to obtain the names and activities

of the delegates, guests, and journalists attending, as well as

reports on its development and agreements.

"In february 1966, he gave refuge in his residency to counter-.

revolutionary fugitive ALDO ABREU BACALIAO((A)), a convicted saboteur.

"The Cuban authorities have also learned through the statements

of several arrested persons, that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA uses the

pouches and enciphered Embassy cables to receive and transmit

instructions, reports, requests for information, and correspondence

related to illicit activities and is personally in charge of

deciphering messages in an office on the second floor of the chancery,

next to the office of his Secretary, and is also in charge of

reviewing and approving all of the material obtained in the country

by his numerous agents and contacts before sending it abroad.

PAGE

12

1 PAGE(S)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

of 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 29

• Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/ 0/ CUD/ T1663-66

SECREL

0/15748-66

"We were also able to prove the connection between Counselor

JAIME CALDEVILIA and the ex-official of the Spanish Embassy

_ALEJANDRO VERGARA ((A)), whose departure from the [5G] it was also

necessary to request, as well as the participation of both in

crimes against the integrity of the State and the illegal removal

of foreign currency and jewels from the country. Both kept as

refugees in the Spanish headquarters two telegraph operators in

charge of intercepting transmitted radio telegraph communications

by means of radio sets. They also reczuited a telegraph operatoi

from the Ministry of Communications who was in charge of the

espionage work of that organization. At that time Counsellor

JAIME CALDEVILLA was personally concerned with verifying the reports

supplied by these two individuals, with the aid of an employee of

the Embassy, ADELA RODIL RODRIGUEZ ((A)), and CARMEN JIMENEZ GO:EZ.

He give direct orders to the latter.

"Both VERGARA and Counselor CALDEVILLA have known of the plans

for sabotage and assassinations, including those against the Prime

PAGE 10°Fnt2

PACE(s)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

ROWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

10 € 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 30

... Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECREI

0/15748-66

Minister of the Revolutionary Government, Major FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. •

Both were exposed by leaders of counterrevolutionary organizations,

having offered, on one occasion, to supply to one group rifles

with telescopic sights. The authorities have proof that one or

the other maintains relations with the well-known counterrevolutionary

leader MANUEL ARTIME, whom Mr. VERGARA visited in Miami sonetime

before the mercenary invasion was crushed at Playa Giron, in

April 1961, with the knowledge of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA.

"It has been known that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA has been

dedicated, furthermore, for some time, to the illegal removal from

the country through the diplomatic pouches of the Spanish Embassy

of jewels and foreign currency delivered to him by different persons,

on a basis of 20 percent of its value. In this way, the removal

from the country of the possessions of ALVARO GONZALEZ GORDON((A))

and his wife MARIA TERESA VELASCO SARRA ((A)) was facilitated.

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE..

11

of

1.2

PAGEls)

PAGE 11

12

PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 31

:: Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2x/0/CUD/T1663-66

EGRET

0/15748-66

"You will agree with me on the importance of this matter, both

painful and regrettable, since it is the question of an official

of the diplomatic representation of a country with which Cuba

- •

maintains normal relations.. We trust that your understanding and

• collaboration will help conclude this affair as soon as possible.

We also trust that the Spanish Government will adopt pertinent.

measures to prevent acts of this nature from recurring.

- . .

.'"I take advantage of this opportunity, Mr.. Charge d'Affaires,

to reiterate to you the testimony of my highest considerations."

((A)) Personal names not verified, as in text.

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(SECRET

PAGE_ 12

120

PAGE

12 t

.. 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 32

-

ID: 6878948

Doe:

FBI

Ragnastrel

2STVOU8BN

1erp880800

tO HASE

Pare d

data

Doc F

Released pursuant to Executive Order

14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE

ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 33

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

0/0763

(Type in plair. test or corde)

(Priority or Methou of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, MBI (102-1090551

WASHINGTON FIELD 105-47047

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-60440)

SUBJECT:

SLIVA

IS - FRANCE

SIMATE

/epast SatiRe Buraan airtels, 6/12/53 ard 6/23/63-

Relative to Bureau airtel of 6/12/63, 1he

Bureau's attention is directed to message number 120 of

3/15/53, wherein VOSJOLI requested $600.00 to invesülgate

a family "Alderson."

The Bureau's attention is directed

to their flle 105-120510,n

"LAURENCE MASON

MALDERSON; IS-PRANCE,

For the informacion of the Wro, by lebber

dated 4/8/63, MY file 134-35, a request by jacquastoRys on.

4/3/63, asked infornation about the ALDERSOns of 3003 Hui Ingra

Housion, Texas:

His Paris Office had advised that a Captain

soustRe, a fugitive of the Cas; had recelved a letter from

one ALDeRSONs wishing him weil

This letter signed

TARREY

was

received in December, 1962

NO L12.

By letter dated 5/3/63, Houston forwarded

background information concerning this family.

By lepter

dated 5/21/63, the Bureau advised what information fron the

Houston letter could be furnished to HERVE. This information

WaS

given to HERVE on 5/28/63.

Bureau (105-109053)

-

Washington Field (105-47647)

I - New York (205-60440)

125 122252-22

LHB: lac

(7)

REG?

6 11: 20 1953

NO: 500/

• Approved:

Sent -

_M • Per.

Special Agent in Ch

arge

Released

pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF

RECORDS

CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND

THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

---

## Page 34

IDCID: 6878948

DoC E

Found by FRE

pursuanjo

FAIR

rogues?

denied fo

+6343852684399

Released pursuant to Executive Order

14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE

ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 35

Doc ID: 6878948

Cuban

1UP: ECRET TRINE

CUVY

WS 3289

3/0/CUD/T167-67

IS 24 Feb 1936Z P

Dist: HCF

CUBAN PRESS AGENCY REQUESTS INFORMATION ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

FIGURE

FR

Havana: MARIO MADRAZO, Latin

American Editorial Staff

TO New York: PORTELA, Prensa Latina

Msg NI: 1

22 Feb 67

Urgent

[OUT-OF -SERVICE MESSAGE]

Lawr

Comrade PORTELA,

Please send us information on the death of DAVID I

*FERRE, cited as an important figure in District Attorney

JIM GARRISON's investigation of the KENNEDY assassination.

We want to know, if possible, what factors linked

FERRIE to the case, as well as the details of his death. Was

it suicide or murder?

164-330-210-4941

NOT RECORDED

MAR 3 0 1057

0

BUREAU SOURCE - L Cuha

MS

00 t

CN ==

TI ==

INDEXED

THIS DOCUMENI CONTAINS I PAGE(S)

Tana samad

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 36

Doc ID: 6878948

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

... EVEN I RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

6 BLEECKER STREET • NEW YORK CITY 10012 - PHONE: AJ WEBERMAN (212) 477-6243

FOI/PA

J. Edgar Hoover Building

Washington, D.C. 20535

1. Under the provisions of the FOIA I would like to request all files,

reports and related reports in which his name comes up on

DAVID WILLIAM

FERRIE

MI. Ferrie was arrested in New Orleans on 2/16/62 and was assigned #107062.

His name was mentioned repeatedly in regard to the Garrison investigation

of the JFK murder/conspiracy which took place in New Orleans. I have enclosed

a copy of a document your office sent me under FOIA which states that Ferrie

is dead.

2. Enclosed please find letter dated 14 Oct 77 from James M. Powers. I

would like to obtain all the additional material. I will pick this

material up in person when I visit the FBI FOI/PA Reading room on

November 9, 1977 if that is alright.

signed

in Of Wa

pok 163134

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

