# 144-10001-10082

## Page 1

Doe ID: 6878950

HONET UMBRE

to vice in la la

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-1008

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

PAGE: 03/26/97

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : CF

[R]

3/0/BLD/T2004-05:E BRAZILTAN AMBASSADOR ASSESSES JOHNSON ADMINISTRATIO IRI

ATE

AGES: 44/27/6.

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITI

BRAZIL: REACTION TO COHNSON

CLASSMENCATIRE: REPORT

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B-

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP.

SE

UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

- Doc Ip: 6878950

Brazilian

DORE T QR SECRET DINAR

BLDO

WS 2449-2450.

3/0/BLD/T2004-63

IS 27 Nov 1645Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

BRAZILIAN AMBASSADOR ASSESSES JOHNSON ADMINISTRATION

FR Washington: Brazilian Embassy

TO Rio de Janeiro:

Foreign Ministry

Msg Nr:

825

26 Nov 63

Urgent

[2-part message complete ]

-. -

NI. 825 •

Confidential.

The personality and political background of President LYNDON

B. JOHNSON, as well as the circumstances which brought him to

power, seem to indicate that American foreign and domestic

policies, under the new Administration, will probably adhere to

the following basic directives:

I. In the short rup, as a natural result of the momentum

of a strong Administration, such as that of President KENNEDY, no

profound changes are expected, especially in the field of foreign

policy (President JOHNSON has already stated that he will follow

the foreign polisy of President KENNEDY) ;

2. In the longer run, however, one can foresee:

A) In the field of foreign policy, with the pre-

dominance of the State Department over the White House "staff"((A))

(which reflected the strong personality of President KENNEDY and

his marked interest in international policy), there probably

will be:

I) No substantial change from the KENNEDY line

in relations with the Soviet Union; the new Administration will

tend toward a wait-and-see attitude;

Brazilian

3/0/BLD/T2004-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK,

AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6878950

Brazilian

DocReT QD SECRET DINAR

3/0/BLD/T2004-63

II). In the field of relations with Western

Europe, or more precisely with France, a less rigid attitude

and one of greater acceptance of the french position, with the

objective of maintaining a united Western front vis-a-vis the

possibility of a political offensive by the Kremlin;

III) • In relations with Latin America, the inter-

vier which President JDHNSON will have this afternoon with the

Foreign Minister will certainly be more enlightening than any

prediction made at this time;

B) In the field of domestic policy, there will possibly

be an improvement in relations between the Executive and the

Legislative within the line of "compromise"(A)); the new Presi-

dent, much more the conservative than the innovator, with intimate

connections with the Congress, and a Southerner, will have more

facility in (gaining] approval of the big bills ("civil rights,"

"fiscal reform," "medical aid," "aid to the aged," etc.) precisely

because he will accept more conservative formulas of compromise;

the new Administration will also tend to be more conservative with

regard to government intervention in the economy; however, radical

changes cannot be expected, since JOHNSON will also face the

pressure of the more liberal wing of the Democratic Party, and

any more pronounced split within the Party would be fatal

to the

hopes for victory in next year's election.

ROBERCAMPOS

((A)) English in text.

MS •0

CN •

• 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

