# 144-10001-10348

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879024

DO BOPSECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10348

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

TITLE

3/0/TUD/T1281-63 KENNEDY DEATH CREATES GREAT SORROW IN MOROCCI; DELEGA

[R]

PAGES : 12/07/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

DACSMENCATIOE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879024

Turkish

Doc Ref ID: A4269373

TOP SECRET DINAR

TUDN

WS N-9006

3/0/TUD/T1281-63

IS

7 Dec 63 P

Dist:

HCO Plus

ST 280

KENNEDY DEATH CREATES GREAT SORROW IN MOROCCO; DELEGATION TO

ATTEND FUNERAL

FR Rabat: KEMAHLI

TO Ankara:

Foreign Ministry

Msg NI:

24 Nov 63

--

75 .

The assualt to which President KENNEDY was exposed created deep

emotion and regret among the people as well as among government

circles. There have been anncuncements by press and radio about the

life of (B val the deceased) and the great probiems which he brought

to successful conclusions.

The King sent telegrams of condolences to Mrs. KENNEDY and

to the new President and he summoned the American Ambassador to

personally express his regrets. Monday, the twenty fifth of the

month, was proclaimed a day of mourning in all Morocco.

A delegation of ten persons, led by Prince ABDULLAH, left for

Washington [6 gr G/U] to represent the King at the funeral ceremony•

Included in this delegation are the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and

[1 gr G], a general and the Director of Palace Protocol.

MS

36

Turkish

CN TUDB Q0114

TI

24 Nov 63 0816Z

3/0/TUD/51281-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

