# 144-10001-10136

## Page 1

• ..

Doc, ID: 6878958

DATE: 03/26/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

NSA

RECORD

NUMBER 144-10001-10136

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : G/143-78

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

RICH

TO : DIRECTOR, ENSA

TITLE

HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS COMMITTEE QUERY

DATE: 04/05//0

PAGES :

5

SUBJECTS

CUBA

OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S

DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

-SENSITIVE

COMI

PARTMENI

ED INFORMATION

ER] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

SECRET SPOKE

---

## Page 2

Doc•ID: 6878958

Doc Ref ID: A4268765

• FPMR 141 CERI 101.11.0 -

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memoranaun

SENSITIVE

TO.

THRU:

FROM

Serial: G/143-78

DATE: 5 April 1978

DDO, VEU

G

SUBJECT:

House Assassinations Committee Query

1. Attached is our proposed response to the queries passed to us from

the House Assassinations Committee.

The information requested was supposed

to be for the period 1959 - 31 December 1974. However, our first successfu

interception of Cuban agent communications was on 17 April 1962.

We

- continued to intercept the communications through the end of the period,

but a communications change on 31 May 1964 rendered the messages unreadable.

2. The source products from which we extracted the attached informa-

tion were published in the Category III TRIG and DENT, US/UK EYES ONLY

We believe we have done sufficient sanitization so that, when the

association with NSA is removed, the text could be releasable as

national

TOP SECRET, Sensitive.

R. E. RICH

Chief,

G

tester

HANDLE VIA COMENT CHANNELS ONLY

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc.ID: 6878958

Doc Ref ID: A4268765

SENSITIVE

CUBAN AGENT ACTIVITY IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE 1959-31 DECEMBER 1974

Cuba used agents for intelligence and subversion in North, Centra

and South America; Africa; and Asia.

Whenever possible, they operated

under diplomatic cover,. getting instructions and communicating through

Cuban missions:

In the Western Hemisphere during the early sixties, diplomatic

cover became less

available to the Cubans, and by spring of 1962,:

• Cuba had diplomatic relations with only one-third of the Latin America

countries.

Cuba's interest in fomenting discord and promoting revolu-

tion obviously grew as she became more isolated officially from the

rest'of the hemisphere, and the Cuban General Directorate of Intelli-

gence

(DGI) inevitably increased its

reliance on illegal/clandestine

agents. By the time of the Cuban "missile crisis" in October 1962,

Cuba was known to be in communication with agents in Florida,

Puerto

Rico, Central America, and Ecuador, all areas in which diplomatic

cover was not

available.

The DGI expanded its clandestine contacts

as more Western Hemisphere countries

severed diplomatic relations.

By the end of 1964, Cuba enjoyed formal relations in the hemisphere

with only Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, and the United Nations in New York.

The DGI maintained contact with its agents by all the routine under-

cover means

(e.g., personal contact, prearranged signaling, secret

writing, hidden meanings

in innocuous appearing mail and telegrams,

microdots, radio, and clandestine mail drops).

In 1962, the DGI was in direct

or indirect contact with at least

35 covernames/covernumbers/pseudonyms believed to represent separate

agents; in 1963 this number grew to 49 and in 1964 the number was

back to 24. Agent locations for the period were New York, Miami,

Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Colombia, La Paz, Guatemala, Mexico,

Chile, Ottawa, Lima and possibly the Dominican

Republic.

During the period for which we have information (1962-1964),

Cuban agents were tasked with performing a wide range and variety of

tasks. With the exceptions of a task levied in 1962, possibly in

Ecuador, for the sabotage of any U.S. property and attacks and

on the U. S. Embassy, and a plan in Puerto Rico for the assassinations

Of ANTONIO VECIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman for ALPHA 66, and

GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, a Cuban exile in Puerto Rico, all information on

DGI-associated activities fell into the categories of recruiting,

gathering information and reporting, spreading propaganda, and pure

logistics.

Agents in Miami, Costa Rica, and Guatemala were to establish and

maintain contacts with Cuban exiles and report on any counter-revolu

The DGI directed that agents procure and

send to

Cuba maps of their respective countries and. guides to major cities.

All agents were furnished secure mail drop addresses in Havana and

intermediate cities outside of Cuba through which they could submit

reports, either in cable form of by secret writing using invisible

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

in Doc ID: 6878958

Doc Ref ID: A4268765

SENSITIVE

inks on innocent appearing letters.

A primary target for penetration was ALPHA 66, a Florida-based

exile organization reputed to have near-legendary powers and resources

The Cuban government still claims U.S. government direction and fundin

of the organization whose claimed activities included night raids

along the Cuban coast, infiltration of agents into Cuba, harassment

of the Cuban armed forces, and weapons drops to counter-revolutionary

groups on the island.

Agents in Costa Rica and Puerto Rico were to collect order-of-

battle information on U.S. forces, vessels and aircraft in Panama and

Puerto Rico, to establish activity norms and report any significant

deviations from the norm.

Agent AMAPOLA in Miami was charged with

reporting on alert status of

U.S. forces at Fort Bragg, Fort Benning

and Homestead Air Force Base.

The field agents were to either

personally collect the information or cultivate and subvert individual:

who had access to it.

Where possible, agents attempted to work with or through Communis

parties in their countries.

The Costa Rican Communist Party was used

by the Cuban agent there as an information collection organization, bu

Agent BRUNO in La Paz encountered problems in dealing with the Bolivia:

Communist Party.

Agent PAMELA in Puerto Rico cultivated and encourager

the activities of JUAN ANGEL SILEN ACEVEDO, Assistant Secretary Genera.

of the Puerto Rican Independent Party.

2

TANDLE MA COMES GARNNELS ONLY

TOr

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 5

Doc ID: 6878958

Doc Ref ID: A4268765

ANY MATERIAL RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY OR

ANY INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION.

We have reviewed the Cuban materials previously compiled to

The only information

regarding the KENNEDY assassination which surfaced might be termed

reactive; that is, it reflects some of the reactions of the Cuban

government to the assassination. Army and Navy elements in Eastern

Cuba were placed on alert status on 22 November, apparently in

reaction to news of the President's death. This action was probably

a reflection of the Cuban government's paranoia over a possible

military action against Cuba, possibly originating from the U. s.

NaVY base at Guantanamo.

That the Cubans were sensitive to suggestion

that they might be implicated in the KENNEDY assassination is very

evident in the following 25 November press release from the Cuban

Foreign Ministry:

"With relation to the införmation published today ( (25 November))

in the newspaper EXCELSIOR in Mexico City, affirming that

LEE HARVEY OSWALD had requested a transit visa for travel

• to the

Soviet Union at the Cuban Consulate in Mexico in September, the Cuban

Government requested information from the officials of our Consulate

in that city confirming that it is certain that MI. LEE HARVEY OSWALD

requested the transit visa for travel to the Soviet Union on

27 September in the said consulate.

"On being informed by the consular officials that their office

could not grant such a visa without the authorization of the Cuban

Ministry of Foreign Relations, which likewise would not grant it if

it was not previously authorized by the country of destination,

Mr. Oswald left the Consulate visibly disgusted.

"The said visa was never granted.

"This detail, in connection with the other circumstances that

surrounds the facts, confirm our suspicion that the assassination of

KENNEDY was a provocation against world peace, perfectly and thoroughl

planned by the most reactionary sectors of the United States.

"It is evident that these

sectors planned beforehand to involve

Cuba

and

the Soviet Union in these deeds.

"The inconceivable and inexplicable impunity with which an

individual of known penal antecedents assassinated OSWALD, the

principal accused of

the assassination of President KENNEDY, in

the presence of the

police themselves and in the basement of a

prison, demonstrates in a scandalous and indisputable manner that

the powerful reactionary political forces within the United States

are making use of all their resources and influences in order to

conceal those who master-minded KENNEDY's assassination, and the

true motives for it.

ARNOLE VIA GUMANI

CHANNELS ONLY -

Released

pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 6

- Doc ID: 6878958

Doc Ref ID: A4268765

SENSITIVE

"World public opinion demands the enlightening of the deeds.

It is absurd that the political

authorities and the prosecuting

attorney of Dallas

have declared that the case is closed when hardly

48 hours have passed

since a deed of so great a result as the

assassination of the President of the United States.

hANDLE VIA COMET CHANNELS ONLY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

