# 144-10001-10280

## Page 1

Dốc ID: 6878932

Doc Ref ID: A4268784

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10280

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DATE: 10/08/9

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

NSA SIGINT COMMAN CENTER OPSUM +2028

PAGES 11/27/63

SUBJECTS:

ISSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878932

TO SECRET DIN IR

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER

OPSUM # 2028

This internal NSA report summarizes significant intelligence

developments, arranged by area

of occurrence, and operational

developments of general interest. The material contained

herein was selected from SIGINT, collateral and press received

in the NSASCC between 260700Z- 27070QZ November 1963.

CURRENT SIGINT READINESS STATUS

READINESS

AREA

ESTABLISHED

STATIONS INVOLVED

ALFA

Iraq

18 Nov (DIRNSA)

USA-36, USM-4, USN-16

ALERT ONE

Iraq

18 Nov (GCHQ)

UKM-257, UKA-282, UKF-222,

UKN-227, UKM-262, UKA-278

INTELLIGENCE DEVELOPMENTS

CUBA

1.

terminated on 25 November (2027.1)• Access to the coastal

observation post at Punta Maisi was restricted only until 25

November, and Eastern Naval District units, which were to receive

further instructions regarding the alert on 25 November, have

apparently not received any such orders. Further, the Cuban navy

held an island wide communication exercise on 25 November. Such

an exercise is unlikely under alert conditions. (2/0/CUJ/R58-63,

2602192)

B-1 Comment: It is possible that the restriction regarding access

to the Punta Maisi observation post extended to other observation

posts in Oriente as well, and that the restriction was to be lifted

on 25 November by all of these posts.

Page 1

(2028 - 27 November 1963)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

