# 144-10001-10369

## Page 1

Đoc ID: 6879039

DO TOP SHERET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10369

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

T0 : HCF

TITLE

3/0/BED/T456-63 BELGIAN FOREIGN MINISTER EVALUATES PRESIDENT JOHNSON

JATE

AGES : 41/26/6.

[R]

SUBJECTS :

JOHNSON, LYNDON

DOSSTENCATYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5, X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879039

Doc Ref ID: A4269402

TOP SECRET DINAR

Belgian

BEDY

WS B-3572

3/0/BED/T456-63

IS 26 Nov 1749Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

BELGIAN FOREIGN MINISTER EVALUATES PRESIDENT JOHNSON

FR Brussels: SPAAK

TO Washington: Belgian Embassy

Msg Nr: 275

23 Nov 63

Reference my telegram Nr. 274((A)). I also answered the

following question:

Question: Mr. Minister, might I also ask you a question?

You have met Mr. LYNDON JOHNSON several times. May we ask you,

on the basis of the conversations which you had with him in

Brussels, what your impressions of the new President of the

United States are?

Answer:

Well. It is true that I had the good fortune to

have talks with the new President of the United States, scarcely

two weeks ago, and these talks inspired my confidence.

I had

the feeling that the Vice President completely shared President

KENNEDY's political ideas. I believe that he is a very ex-

perienced man and that there is no reason to doubt his wish to

follow President KENNEDY's policy. Therefore it is necessary

to have confidence and to work with him with the same desire for

co-operation as that which we showed to President KENNEDY.

((A)) Available if required. The Foreign Ministry transmits to

Embassy Washington the text of Mr. SPAAK's statement by

radio on 23 November on the death of President KENNEDY. J

MS 974

CN ILC

TI --

Belgian

3/0/BED/1456-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET. DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

