# 144-10001-10115

## Page 1

Dóc ID: 6878924

Doc Re

63750

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10115

LIMBRACE: 03/24/97

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

HCF PLUS

[R]

TITLE

3/0/VAD/T17-64: JOHNSON'S PROSPECTS: UAR AMBASSADOR, WASHINGTON,

PAGES

AGES: 01/04/64

SUBJECTS

EGYPT,

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

NORWAY

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

U.S. FOREIGN RELATIONS

-•-•

[RI

[R]

[R]

DOCUMENT. TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID:: 6878924

Doc Ref ID: A4268750

UAR

TOP SECRET DINAR

UADD

WS 18124-18129

3/0/UAD/T17-64

IS 04 Jan 1831Z P

Dist: HCF Plus

JOHNSON'S PROSPECTS: UAR AMBASSADOR, WASHINGTON, REPORIS

DISCUSSION WITH NORWEGIAN AMBASSADOR

FR Washington: Ambassador

TO Cairo:

KHARGIA

Msg NI:

412

22 Dec 63

(Parts 1-6 of a 7-part message] ((A))

I. The Norwegian Ambassador to Washington visited me and

the conversation dealt with the domestic situation in America

and some aspects of the international situation and the situation

in the Middle East.

II. He said:

A. The world had suffered a great loss in KENNEDY's

death. It appeared to him that the killer was not a party to

a conspiracy but was a blind fanatic nourished by the radical

milieu of the state where he lived.

B. He added that he had accompanied JOHNSON for four

days during his visit to Norway as KENNEDY's Vice President and

that he had noted the following: [Part 2]

JOHNSON was practical-minded. He was not good at

listening. He was an expert in American domestic affairs but

had not handled foreign affairs very much. He was impatient

and quick-tempered; nevertheless, he added that his assumption

of the presidency had changed his disposition.

C. He said that JOHNSON would be the presidential

candidate of the Democratic Party in the coming election campaign

and that the Republicans had not yet decided on a serious rival

who could beat him. He said that he thought that JOHNSON would

win in

the coming presidential election. (Part, 3]

UAR

3/0/UAD/T17-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 3 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released

pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND

THE REV.

Dr. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID:: 6878924

Doc Ref ID: A4268750

TOP SECRET DINAR

UAR

3/0/UAD/T17-64

D. He stated that their conjecture in Oslo was that

JOHNSON would continue

to pursue KENNEDY's foreign policy,

particularly with regard to trying to reach an understanding

with the Russians and calming the tension of the cold war,

although it was not unlikely that his methods in this would

be somewhat different from KENNEDY's. Nevertheless, he said

that JOHNSON's job would not be easy since he was facing

problems in South America and NATO and Southeast Asia and the

Middle East. He said that KHRUSHCHEV appeared to be more

anxious than the Americans [Part 4] for an understanding with

Washington because of numerous domestic problems and his dispute

with Peking and the presence of opposition to him in Russia and

some of the Communist nations. He said that KHRUSHCHEV had to

continue his policy of truce for many reasons.

He stated that the policy of truce might change

for unexpected reasons, such as

KHRUSHCHEV's death, etc.

He said that he thought that Labor would win in

the elections in Britain. He noted that they would continue

the policy of rapprochement with the Soviets. He pointed out

that the Laborites would strive (Part 5) for a further

rapprochement with West Germany and said that their policy

would be progressive with regard to racial discrimination and

colonial problems.

III. When I was asked about conditions in the Middle

East and our relations with America, I explained the development

of our relations with America and friendly nations over the

past years and how this development had led to results which

were rewarding to all. I went into detail about the period of

transition through which some of the nations of the Middle East

are passing and the conditions which had resulted and said that

tendentious propaganda was giving a (Part 6] false interpretation

to the events of the Middle East. I discussed our domestic

policy which is based on economic development in conformity with

practical and [1 wd G] methods, and the state and development of

the country and what we had achieved in this regard in the

roughest circumstances. I explained our foreign policy based

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released

pursuant to

Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND

THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 687.8924

Doc Ref ID: A4268750

TOP SECRET DINAR

UAR

3/0/UAD/T17-64

on working for peace, stability and co-operation with all

friends, replacing disputes with understanding and dealing

with disputes by peaceful means. [Part 71 • . .

((A)) Part 7 not yet readable.

MS 974

CN

ILC

TI --

- 3-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

