# 144-10001-10291

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878976

Doc Ref ID: A4268798

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10291

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

NSA

NSA

TO :

NSA SIGINT COMMANE CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

PAGES: 11/23/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFYCATIOE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CURRENT STATUS

BESTRICTTONS : 1A, 1B

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

ORIGENATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

• Doc ID: 6878976

Doc Ref ID: A4268798

(unclassified until filled)

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

(10)

FROM (hour)

ASSUMED OTE 5A TCH FROM

Mre V. I. Larson

TIME (L)

1545

0745

0755

0845

0900

Robert E. Gould

DATE

AT

EVENT

23 November 1963

0745

SFCNL

Notified LCDR McGrath of Telecon with Mueller. He will be out

about 0845.

Released 2/0/RUD/R316 Unusual Activity on the Soviet Diplomatic

Circuit Between Moscow and Leopoldville.

Colonel Walker (Phone 189-432) from ASA called in reference to

ADP 429. Says this message is in conflict with instructions

from General Blake.

Got copy of message from M63 and called

Bl to inform them of Walker's concern.

Mr Stewart not there,

but gave information to Itcol donovich, who is handling.

Msg in question instructs USM-84 to inform J2 US SOUTH COMD

that his intelligence requirements should be levied through

channels. Copy is in day file.

0915

0930

0950

1000

1010

Lt Cmdr McGrath appeared. Gave him copy of the Telecon and

referred him to Lt Col Odonovich, who is also interested in

the matter of supplying the Mueller with tapes.

WO reports that JRC informs them of three Big Cigar msg.

1328Z at #69; 1342Z at 183; and 1335Z at #28. Had Captain

Blaker inform A615.

Mis Howell of Po53 picked up the message from CI/FID regarding

coverage on Frankfurt Oder link. This msg requires PO52 action,

steps today.

Dr Shinn called in to check on reaction. Is going to Laurel

and will report in again shortly afternoon.

Ray Henderson A104 reported for watch.

1011

WO reports that CANTAT line was restored at 220744z. Also

reports "BIG CIGAR NO PHONETICS 1453Z #53". This information

relayed to A615.

1100

NIC Sit Check.

1110

• Cox of CIA wants to know if Planes mentioned in J/56/BUA/R1-63

are Fishbed C or Fishbed D. 33 says they cun' tell So informed Cox.

1125

Called LtCol Odonovich to find out if all action had been taken

regarding the Mueller. He assured me that everything had been

пини

RELIEVED BY Cole

REV. BY

NICA ENOM A 19AT DEV 1LI1 6a

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

. Doc ID: 6878976

Doc Ref ID: A4268798

(unclassified until filled)

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

FROM (hour)

(to)

0745

1545

ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM

Mr V. T. Larson

TIME (L)

1125

(con't)

1206

Robert E. Gould

DATE

AT

23 November 1963

0745

EVENT

1219

1220

1400

1420

1430

1431

1455

1500

1501

1530

handled by Ltdr McGrath.

Mr Stewart of Bl came in and reported that according to a junior

EM in B145, USA-66 reports over 800 Gov't cipher msgs transmitted

from Havana to Moscow via ILC bsincen 0000 22 November.

This in-

credible volume now being checked out by Contant of B145 for pur-

pose of issuing end product report if true.

Dr Shinn is at home and will be at home until Monday morning.

Released P055/255-63. Collateral information for USN-19 on

Brazil.

GOLD TREE down 1824Z. 75% cover.

Mr Embry of Sec Def Office says Monday is a nonworking day throughout

the world for all Govt Agencies - a day of mourning.

This was co-

ordinated with General Blaake, who says it is fine.

It Dancy has

contacted Col McCabe, Col Holbert, and Mr Rowlet.

Notified Dr Shinn at approx 1415 that USIB and the Watch were

meeting as usual. Also intormed farley. A and B desks have

informed the appropriate 5 offices who are responsible for

dragging in the people they need to support them.

Mr Stewart of Bl said that Bl will be operating on an augmented

Septimus plan Monday.

Ref item 1206: The actual number of messages transmitted was

four.

Bl is notifying other recipients of the incorrect information.

Brennan of RCI wantes to know if there will be courier service

on Monday.

watch says yes, but this won't be firm for another

hour or two. When watch office does provide answer, please

relay to Brennan.

Rec'd GT prefigight 3780

Provided Mr Stewart with addresses and phone numbers of Zaslow,

Col Swears, and Jenks so that he could notify them of mourning

plan for Monday. (This note added 0755 23 November) .

RELIEVE

les

Shead

REV. BY

CI ASGIRICATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE

REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

it

. Doc ID;: 6878976

Doc Ref ID: A4268798

(unclassified until filled)

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

FROM (hour)

(to)

1600

ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM

2400

Mr.

Gould

TIME (L)

1545

SFCNL

1610

Francis Smead

DATE

23 Nov 63

AT

1545

EVENT

Col. Duvall, DIA called and wanted a complete run-down on SIGINT

reflections of assissination.

1700

1710

1750

1753

1800

Brenan, STATE called and wanted to know if we had an official list

of the Representatives of other nations who are coming to Washington

for the funeral

services, advised him we did not. He will send us

a list.

He wants us to be an the alert and report immediately on

any instructions re these representatives particularily on people they

vant to talk to in Washington.

Anything that is seen in Dip traffic.

Instructed B desk to notify people in Bl and B2.

Gen. Bläke is in his office, he has a meeting at 1715. Advised WO.

Gen. Blake has departed for home.

He left a package that he may

pick-up Monday, or he may call to have ADM Schulz.

Received BARKSDALE AFB LA DIG 231935Z. Golden Tree mission 3779

landed at 231824Z, 75 % coverage.

Major Nelson, DIA IL-18 Moscow to Washington, Plane # 75764 Due in

Washington 0710 londay. Aboard is Deputy Priminister Mickoyon?? and

7 Others.

Advised STATE.

1820

Major Nelson, DIA Called to confirm the above sked. The flight is

designated Special #19.

Departs Moscow 2416252, via Breswick ETA

Breswick 242140Z, ETD 2423252; ETA GANDER 2506157, ETD GANDER 250745Z;

ETA ANDREWS 1200Z (0700 Monday EST).

1905

1955

The Duty Officer on Monday 25 N v 63 for ADC is Mr Ayres. He will be on

duty in the ADC office. Phone: 2303(s), 6501 (led).

Edwards, DIA/CIIC called to report that he was sending an OI message

to us, this is a retransmission of a message they received from the UN

MDR in Korea. It is reported that a coup is to take place in S. Korea

at 0100 (unknown if this i$ Zulu or Korean Local). Narine elements

involved.

2010

Brown, CIA reports they have heard from their units in Korea who also

report a possible coup. They are checking this out and will call back.

2040

Received calls from both CIA and DIA who stated that they did not

consider there was anything to the possible coup in S. Korea, that the

0100 time was Korean Local and that was nine hours ago. The U.s..

Military and CIA, Korea have advised the Korean Military about the

reports they nave on the coup. will call yt. Col. Lang and advise him

RELIEVED BY (aig)

DUTY OFFICER fal

REV. BY

20

mead

CIASSISICATION

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 5

• Doc ID,: 6878976

Doc Ref ID: A4268798

(unclassified until filled)

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

(10)

FROM (hour)

1600

ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM

Mr Gould

TIME (L)

2400

Francis Smead

DATE

23 Nov 63

AT 1545

2100

NOTE

2110

2130

DAY SNCO

OK SEY

EVENT

of this. Will take no further action bused on fact that both CIA AND DIA

state that there is nothing to the rumor.

Received call from Bradley, CIA regarding SHAMROCK. ADVISED BRADLEY

THAT I WAS NOI IN POSITION TO DISCUSS THIS MATTER WITH HIM, BUT I WOULD

CALL SOMEGNE IN WHO COULD. THERE IS NO LISTING OF SHAMROCK ANTWERE,

FINALLY GOT HOLD OF LF. COL. ODONOVISH IN B1 HE ADVISED TO CALL JEEN

STOCKTON, NO ANSWER PROMSTOCKTON. CALLED AL CONTONT WHO WILL BE IN.

BRADLEY SAID TO CALL AND TALK TO MR SLOSS, CIA WATCH OFFICER 1-8565.

IF A MATTER COMES UP THAT REQUIRES C GROUP ASSISTANCE AND BEARD CANNOT

BE REACHED, CALL IR. KELLER.

Message from STATE with list of the DIGNITARIES TO VISIT WASHINGION

FOR JEK FUNERAL IS COMING IN ON THE PRINTER NOW.

RECEIVED CSAF WABH DC DTG 240106Z. Report of ALLEGED COUP PLOT AGAINST

ROK GOVERNMENT. SEE ITEM 2040 ABOVE.

CALL JOHN STOCKTON, B1 TUMORROW MORNING AT 0800 TO COME IN AND TAKE

A LOOK A MESSAGE FROM CIA THAT IS ON THE SNGO DESK.

!

Have here

REV. BY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

