# 144-10001-10269

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878959

Doc Ref ID SECRET SPOKE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10269

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

USA

USM-620K

ROMEO SEVEN/GOLF

R

TITLE

2/R7/GCY/T172-68 SED DAILY SUMMARY

PAGES : 20/10/68

SUBJECTS:

DAILY SUMMARY

ASSASSINATION, OTHER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : Î1/13/97

OPENING CRITERIA

JATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIREI

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET SPOKE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878959

Doc Ref ID: 44248640 SPOKE

L CATEGORY = 2

M =

27

MESSAGE = 08558736

MMSGMSGD100745CZCBIA665HAG849

PP YCRNAH YEKADA YEKAXA DE

YFNLAH 58 1621885

ZKZK PP RII ZDI NRL DE

P 1012307

FM USM 620K

TO ROMEO SEVEN/GOLF USM 628 ZEN/UKM 251Q

ZEM

SECRET SAVIN

XXMM

ENPB6-FP18868 2/R7/GCY/R172-68 SED DAILY SUMMARY

XXCC

(ITEM NO: 8 CONT) THE NEWS OF THE ASSASSINATION OF U.S

SENATOR ROBERT KENNEDY

WAS HEARD WITH INDIGNATION AND DISGUST

BY

INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL

WORKERS.

MANY WORKERS CONDEMNED POLITICAL MURDER AS COMMITTED AGAINST FORMER-PRESIDENT

JOrIN F.

CIRCLES WHO,

KENNEDY.

THEY PROTESTED SHARPLY AGAINST THOSE EXTREMIST REACTIONARY

IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THEIR ANTIDEMOCRATIC AND ANTICOMMUNIST GOALS,

ARE INCREASINGLY PRACTICING MURDER AGAINST THEIR POLITICAL OPPONENTS AND WHO

HAVE INTRODUCED MURDER AS A MEANS OF POLITICAL DUSCUSSION THE THE INTERNAL

POLITICS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

MANY WORKERS MADE STATEMENTS

SIMILAR

TO THE FOLLOWING: "KENNEDY'S ELECTION AS PRESIDENT WOULD PROBABLY HAVE LED TO

AN ALTERATION OF

"THE

ENN

REACTIONA

RY

FORCER MEMALE USA, "AEP

REP DO STELLAFOR THE FORDER

HE HAD TO DIE."

OF

JOHN F

EDY, WANTED

ERADICATE

THE

PRESIDENT

THROUGHT

THE

MURDER OF ROBERT

E COME TO

WOUL

HAVE

REVENGED

CRIMINAL

ASSASSINATION OF HIS BROTHER HAD

COME

WHO

POWER

L

HAL

ZI

REPORTS (GIST,

C.185gZ,

18 JUN 68,

A/274)

THAT

TH

DU

IS

CU

FA

SS

I

T

0

N

NS

AND

CONT

GR

ERN

HA

BE

OF

T

B

0

2D

ER

TO

ES

CAMP,

LY

H7Z+

Han

CS

SR

IS

NOT

OCCUPYING

THE MAJORITY OF

AS

STILL

A

TOPIC OF CONVERSATION,

ALTHOUGH

ED

SUCH AS

AN

DEVELOPMENTS

ST

RIA

THERE,

"THE

OPENING

IS A SERIOUS

ESPEC

IAL

HE

RS

ER

DANGER FOR

THE SOCIALIST

EXPRESSED

THAT THIS

WOULD

ENABLE

CERTAIN

ELEMENTS TO FLEE

THE DDR THROUGH THE CSSR AND WOULD ALLOW AGENTS AND

REVANCHISTS FROM WEST GERMANY TO BE BROUGHT IN TO SUPPORT THE COUNTER-

REVOLUTIONARY FORCES.

IT WAS ASKED: "HOW ABOUT THE COMMAND POSITIONS OF THE

ARMED FORCES OF THE CSSR--ARE THEY...IN. THE HANDSOF CONSCIOUS COMRADES OF THE

CZECHOSLOVAK COMMUNIST

PARTY (CPC):" #WILL

THE ARMED FORCES OF THE CSSR FULFILL

THEIR DUTIES WITHIN

THE WARSAW PACT:"

CITIZENS WHO HAVE VISITTED THE CSSR HAVE

STATED: "IN THE CITIES AND VILLAGES

THAN EVER.

NOW THE PEOPLE LIVE MORE

GREAT CONFIDENCE IN THE NEW PARTY

PRETE CORNE CHIDENT ON THE OSBE HAVENT

FREELY COSTHE E SIZENS OF THE OSSR HAVENT

"THE CITIZENS OF THE CSSR HAVE

ESTABLISHMENT OF ORDERLY CONDITIONS

" "WHY

IN ACCORDANCE WITH HER OWN IDEAS:

SHOULDN'T

THE CSSR BUILD SOCIALISM

IT WOULD BE SUFFICIENT

TE ThE SOCIALIST

_COUNTRIES OERELY OBSERVED,

TO MAKE CERTAIN THAT NO NONSENSE WAS

GOING ON. LET'S

NOT OVERSTIMATE THE DANGER IN THE CSSR: THE LEADING COMRADES OF THE CPC WILL

HANDLE THE SITUATION PROPERLY. " REPORTS BY THE DELEGATIONS THAT WERE_ IN THE

CSSR DURING THE PAST FEW DAYS REVELA THAT THERE IS NO UNIFORM CONCEPT AS TO THE

BASIC PROBLEMS OF THE LEADING ROLE OF THE PARTY,

THE POWER,

THE DEVELOPMENT OF

DEMOCRACY,

OR OF ECONOMIC AND GOVERNMENTAL RELATIONSHIPS.

THE REPORTS ALSO

REVEAL THAT THE DELEGATIONS OCCASIONALLY

ENCOUNTERED PEOPLE WHO WERE PREPARED

FOR THEM AND WHO ATTEMPTED TO DIRECT THE

DISCUSSION IN A PARTICULAR DIRECTION:

WITH THE JUSTIFICATION OF THEIR PATH AND THAT"WE" NEED HAVE NO WORRIES OVER THE

RET SPOKE

Released pursuant

der

14176,

DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC.

THE ASSASSINATIONS

OF PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6878959

Doc Ref ID: A49EORÊ

SPOKE

DEVELOP- MENTS IN THE CSSR.

EVEN FUNCTIONARIES KNOVN TO DELEGATION MEMBERS OF

THE CPC EXHIBITED SUBJECTIVE CONCEPTS,

NATIONALIST TENDENCIES AND FUZZINESS

REGARDING BASIC QUESTIONS AND PRINCIPLES OF MARXISM-LENINISM ON THE LEADING

FAbEREA LAP AREA, ADOR PAGEAN RANCHE RIES ARE BELLS FLOS ME REGALE

THOSE IN THE AREAS

NERE UNABLE

TO JOIN IN CON- VERSATIONS OTHER

THAT OFFICIALLY SANCTIONED ONES

WITH PARTY AND

TRADE UNION FUNCTIONARIES OR TO ENGAGE IN DUSCUSSIONS WITH NORKERS.

IN ALL

CONVERSATIONS THE SUBJECTS OF

COMRADE HAGER'S SPEECH AND VARIOUS

"NEUES DEUTSCHLAND"

INVARIABLY CAME UP.

THEY WERE DESCRIBED AS GROSS

ARTICLES FROM

INTERVENTION

IN THE INTERNAL AFFAIRS OF THE CSSR.

DESPITE INSISTENCE THAT ALL

EFFORTS WERE STILL TOWARD THE CONSTRUCTION OF SOCIALISM AND

THAT FRIENDSHIP

WITH THE SOVIET UNION IS A NECESSARZ PREREQUISITE FOR THE

DEVELOPMENT OF THE

CSSR, TENDENCIES TOWARD ANTI-SOVIET OPINION APPEARED XXHII 785 NNNN

"sas

SECRET SPOKE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR.

---

