# 144-10001-10293

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878980

DO TOP+SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10293

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

HCF

TITLE

3/0/ABD/T940-63 KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION: SAUDI REPORT FROM WASHINGTON

123/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSM NATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878980

Saudi Arabian ABDB

Doc Ref ID: A4268803

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS WA-11-36

3/0/ABD/T940-63

IS 23 Nov 1715Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

SAUDI REPORT FROM WASHINGTON

22 Nov 63

KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION:

FR Washington: NEJDIAH

TO Jidda: Foreign Ministry

Msg NI: 137

All the television and radio stations gave full coverage

to the assassination of President KENNEDY at noon today in

Dallas, Texas immediately after he was shot by an unknown person.

The motives which led to the perpetration of this deed are not

as yet known.

In accordance with the American constitution Mr. LYNDON

JOHNSON will assume the Presidency of the Republic.

The Dean of the diplomatic corps sent a joint telegram

of condolence on behalf of the diplomatic corps. We have also

sent telegrams of condolence to the new President, the Secretary

of State, President KENNEDY's father, wife and brothers.

This event has had a severe reaction among all American,

foreign, and UN circles as the television and radio stations

have reported.

Details [5 or 10 G/M]

MS 55

CN ILC

TI 23 Nov 63 08447

Saudi Arabian

3/0/ABD/7940-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MIK, JR.

---

