# 144-10001-10306

## Page 1

, Doc IĐ: 6878971

Dee TOPSECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10306

JATE: 10/09/9

AGE:

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

TITLE

3/0/GAD/T139-63 CHO EN LAI MAY VISIT AFRICA IN DECEMBER

JAIL

AGES : 11/2316

SUBJECTS

THREAT, PRESIDENT LIOU CHAO CHI

CLASSMENCATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

• TOP SECRET UMBRA

OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878971

Guinean

Doc Ref ID: A4268834

TOP SEGRET DINAR

GADB-1 [French]

WS 226

3/0/GAD/T139-63

IS 23 Nov 2157Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

CHOU EN LAI MAY VISIT AFRICA IN DECEMBER

FR Peking: AMBAGUINEE

TO Conakry: President of the Republic

Msg NI: 856AGP6307

23 Nov 63

Priority

I have the honor to inform you of the following:

I learned from an unofficial source that Premier CHOU EN

LAI will leave Peking on 13 or 14 December for an official visit

in Egypt whence he will visit other African countries, among

them Guinea, Ghana, Mali. [SG] not have confirmation of this

information

despite several démarches to Chinese Protocol.

This discretion seems due to the fact that the Chinese Govern-

ment is (B val using) every means to avoid a reoccurrence of •

the assassination attempt to which President LIOU CHAO CHI was

subject when he visited Cambodia.

I continue my investigations. I will keep you informed

as soon as possible.

As I finish this telegram, I learn of the assassination

of President KENNEDY. The British flag has been furled and

creped since this morning.

Very high consideration, MOMO BANGOURA

MS UKN- 227

Guinean

CN ILC

TI--

3/0/GĂD/I139-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

