# 144-10001-10094

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878951

UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10094

DATE: 03/26/97

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

: HCF

[R]

3/0/BLD/T2027-63: CUBAN AUTHORITIES STATE VIEWS CONCERNING DEATH OF

PAGES: 12/03/63

BRAZIL

CUBA,

LECTOR TO ASASYIMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

÷08/10/93

ORIGENAYING AGENCA S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

LIMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Dòc ID: 6878951

Brazilian

DOC RET. Q0P2 SECRET DINAR

BLDC-1

WS 74003

3/0/BLD/T2027-63

IS 03 Dec 2001Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

CUBAN AUTHORITIES STATE VIEWS CONCERNING DEATH OF KENNEDY

ER Havana: BASTIAN

TO Río de Janeiro: Foreign Ministry

Msg NI:

290

27 Nov 63

--

Confidential.

Soon after the death of KENNEDY several authorities and persons

associated with the Cuban Government openly expressed to me their

concern relative to the consequences in regard to Cuba and were

unanimous in believing that any other president would be "even

worse." Another concern of the Cubans was expounded in the

unexpected speech by FIDEL CASTRO on Saturday when he accused the

news agencies of trying to connect the Soviet Union and Cuba to

the crime and asserted that the reactionaries of the United States

are trying to create "a state of anti-Soviet and anti-Cuban

hysteria." Further, yesterday the Foreign Ministry in an official

communique confirmed that the indicated assassin tried to obtain

a visa to Cuba without success and repeated that reactionary sectors

tried, in that way, to involve beforehand Cuba and the Soviet Union

in the events and are trying now to cover up the masterminds and

real motives for the crime.

There was no official announcement

here of sorrow for the death of the President of the United States.

MS UKF - 120

CN ILC

TI .-

Brazilian

3/0/BLD/12027-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(s)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

