# 144-10001-10286

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878935

Doc TOPSECRET UMBRA-

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY : NSI

KECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10281

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO PLUS

TITLE

3/0/FRD/T72-64 SIHANOUK SPEECH CONDEMNS U.S. AND TREATS CAMBODIAN RELA

PAGES : 21/17/64

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

DASSMFYCATION: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

: X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878935

French

Doc Ref ID: A4268791

TOP SECRET DINAR

FRDBT

WS

11966-68

3/0/FRD/T72-64

•IS

17

Jan 64P

Dist:

HCO Plus

SIHANOUK SPEECH CONDEMNS U.S., AND TREATS CAMBODIAN RELATIONS WITH

FRANCE AND VIETNAM

FR

Phnom Penh: BEAUSSE

TO

Paris: The Department

Msg Nr:: 1442-44

13 Dec

63

• [3-part message complete]

• A visit made to the Takeo province on the 12th gave Prince

SIHANOUK an opportunity to deliver a new speech. The United

States was violently taken to task, and the Prince announced

his decision to recall Mr. NONG KIMNY and almost all the

personnel of the Khmer Embassy in Washington and to leave only

the Cultural Attache there as

Charge d'Affaires. He justified

this step by the United States Ambassador's recent "protest"

to the President of the Council against the "hate campaign"

initiated in Cambodia following the death of Marshal THANARAT,

a campaign which did not spare President KENNEDY's memory.

Threats of a complete break were even made in the event that

the hate campaign continued.

The Prince also took up--but much more moderately--the

question of relations [l gr M] Vietnam and stated that the

Vietnamese Government had already been able to seize one of

the Free Khmer transmitting stations and hoped to discover the other

one soon. He added that MI. TRAN CHANH THANH, former Vietnamese

Ambassador to Tunisia, was to come to Cambodia at any moment to

begin negotiations but that he was maintaining the five

conditions that he had set up for the resumption of normal.

relations with South Vietnam.

Finally, the Chief of State announced the forthcoming arrival

of Mr.. MESSMER and a French delegation and expressed his confidence

in President DE GAULLE, "who [l gr Ul Cambodia; but," he strongly

emphasized, "it will be necessary for France to respect the

French

3/0/FRD/T72-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6878935

Doc Ref ID: A4268791

TOP SECRET DINAR

French

'.3/0/FRD/T72-64

dignity of Cambodia, which the latter will not give up at any

price."

MS

57

CN FRDB 50121

TI

13 Dec 63 1142Z

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

