# 144-10001-10351

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879023

DO TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10351

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

TITLE

3/0/TUD/T1360-63 PRESS COMMENT ON KENNEDY'S DEATH AND JOHNSON'S ACCES

PAGES: 11/22/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

DASSMFYCATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[RI

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879023

Doc Ref ID: A4269379

TOP SECRET DINAR

Turkish

TUDJ

WS J-0385

3/0/TUD/T1360-63

IS 22 Dec 62 P

Dist: HCO

ST 280

PRESS COMMENT ON KENNEDY'S DEATH AND JOHNSON'S ACCESSION TO

PRESIDENCY

FR Helsinki: Embassy

TO Ankara: Foreign Ministry

Msg NI: -

27 Nov 63

38.

The incident of the killing of the United States President

KENNEDY caused great indignation and grief in Finland.

A sort

of period of national mourning was established in Helsinki with

flags lowered to half-mast everywhere. On the 25th of the

month in the city of 13 gr G/Ml, a Mass was arranged in which the

President of the Republic will aiso participate.

All means of

publication are discussing the exceptional personality of KENNEDY

and his service to humanity and peace.

The press, taking up the personality of i. JOHNSCN who

ascended to the presidency unexpectedly, wrote that the afore-

mentioned in his yourh was a protegé of

ROCSEVELT and went so

Auscralia and New Zealand as his special representative during.

the war; that he was one of those who defended the (1 grU] at

the time. The press added that, although he has great influence

especially in internal politics and in the party, his

experience in the matter of foreign policy expanded by his trips

after 1961; that following the Moscow agreement, he made a

statement to the effect that he saw the possibility of nuclear-free

zones [1 gr Mj created; that, however, he supported the idea

that the cold war will continue; and that in 1959 KHRUSHCHEV

[1 gr Gied to him stating, "(B vai I am not) acquainted with you

but I have read all your [1 gr Mis and I did not [2 gr G/U]

at all.

Turkish

3! 0/TUD/T1360-63

: THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6879023

Doc Ref ID: A4269379

TOP SEGRET DINAR

Turkish

3/0/TUD/T1360-63

As was submitted during his visit to Helsinki several months

ago, the impression which he

left as a statesman [1 gr G] is

negative.

Some of the opinions expressed in official and political

circles are as follows: the incident of the death of the presi-

dent is of a nature to alter conditions of domestic policy;

in spite of the certainty of KENNEDY's Democratic Party candidacy

in the future elections, now the party will be the scene of a

great dispute; however, from the

struggle between the [1 gr U]

and liberal wings of the [1 gr G] party, it can be expected that

NIXON will be the victor.

The primary point which these circles (1 gr Ul upon is

that the incident of the sudden withdrawal from the scene of

KENNEDY whose perscnality was forcefully felt on east-west

(B val relations) which are taking a favorable dizection despite

the (1 gr G] deviations racently, (1 g= G; destructive reactions

on these relations.

MS

36

CN TUDB 00120 TI 27 NOv 63 0831Z

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

