# 144-10001-10367

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879037

DOROP SCRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10367

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

3/0/w/T2038-63 ME INFORMATION BULLETIN NR. 51, 26 NOVEMBER 1963

AT T

AGES: 52/02/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DASSYFNCATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE CURRAST RENTES 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV EM: NICACCS Manual 129-€

Dated: 24 February 100%

DECL-ON+ X4,X0,X5,X0,X7,X0

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879037

Doc Ref ID: A4269400

TOP SECRET DINAR

#*#**IXNO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION#*XX**7X7#*XX:

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in

whole or in part is prohibited

except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY AGENCY.

Polish

PLDX-15

WS

34

3/0/w/T2@38-63

2 Dec 63

MFA INFORMATION BULLETIN NR. 51, 26 November 1963

FR Warsaw:

TO Berlin, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Polish Embassy

Msg. Nr. 13401

[EXTRACT]b

26 Nov 63 1600

Routine

For the Chief of Mission.

Information Bulletin Nr. 51, 26 November 1963•

I. Washington, 24 November (DROZNIAK) •

After JOHNSON's first meeting with members of government and congress an

even more general opinion [25-50M] internal will be continued by him in

principle, although by different methods. It is believed that the role of

RUSK and the State Department will grow greater.

JOHNSON is to assure

MIKOYAN that he will follow KENNEDY's line. MIKOYAN's presence [at the funeral]

is evaluated as KhRUShchEV's gesture of good will and his intention to follow

the same policy toward the USA [25-50M]

DE GAULLE: the wish to take advan-

tage of JOHNSON's inexperience to play the role of a man of providence and

solidarity with the USA.

B. JOHNSON will concentrate on consolidating his position in the party

and country. He assumes that he will be a candidate in the elections. In

both parties [25-50M] is expected. The Republicans believe that their chances

have improved.

II. New York, 25 November. (Information received from LEWANDOWSKI. )

The struggle on the political implication of the assassination continues

between the right and groups close to KENNEDY. It will probably pass to the

Polish

3/0/w/T2$38-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS

3 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

"Doc ID: 6879037

*****

Doc Ref ID: A4269400

TOP SECRET DINAR

***NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION*****;

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Polish

3/0/w/T2038-63

foreign and domestic policies of the new president. Even though the right

was unable to raise anti-Communist feelings in the nation and thus force

JOHNSON's immediate abandonment of the KENNEDY line, it is, however, widening

its influences.

Its representatives in Congress began an open attack of

KENNEDY's policy of looking for agreements with the Soviet Union, and thus

emphasized the hope that JOHNSON will not be such a "green politician."

Western European and Scandinavian delegations with whom we talked avoided all

speculations on the outcome of the meetings with MIKOYAN, DE GAULLE and ERHARD.

III. Berlin, 24 November.

According to United States Armed Forces Radio in Berlin, a state of full

alert of the Bundeswehr was announced in the FRG on 23 November after KENNEDY's

assassination.

The tone of the FiG propaganda was sad, and in a form not

offensive to the right emphasized that KENNEDY's policy was favorable to the

FRGO

The massive funeral displays were organized only in West Berlin and not

in the FRG.

This discounted KENNEDY's attitude towards West Berlin and is an

attempt "to fall in line with KENNEDY's successor."

IV. Lagos [25-50M]

AZIKIV in

a message considers KENNEDY a victim of racial hatred. He

questions the retention of UN offices in the States. All commentaries play

up the racial question.

Va Rio, 23 November.

According to the embassy the change in the USA shocked political

circles who now expect USA policy towards Latin America to take a turn to the

right.

Bo The domestic situatión is tense. Fear of a crisis with violent

outcomes exists.

VI. Paris, 24 November.

According to French and German press circles, DE GAULIE during his meeting

with ERHARD placed emphasis on the

establishment of a friendly atmosphere.

The talks were of a probing nature.

The differences of opinion: According to

ERHARD, Europe must be firmly allied with the USA and according to DE GAULLE

the reverse is desired. ERHARD believed that USA-USSR dialogue was useful

Polish

3/0/w/T2$38-63

- 2 -

• TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

Dọc ID: 6879037

*ухи

Doc Ref ID: A4269400

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION**************

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Polish

3/0/w/T2D38-63

(by maintaining certain borders and concessions from the USSR).

According to

DE GAULLE, the dialogue was not necessary and gave no results.

ERHARD raised

the importance of trade with Socialist countries.

VII. Baghdad, 25 November.

Before the formation of the government, three groups appeared in the

officer corps:

Ao The Nationalists [who] demanded liquidation of the Ba'ath,'

Bo la group which] agreed

against the inclusion of the Ba'ath in the

government but without its liquidation,

C. [one which] demanded the inclusion of the Ba'ath in the government.

ARIF announced a non-partisan government whose aim is the consolidation of

the nation.

The officers gave him an ultimatum: Complete the consolidation

in eight weeks or resign, the government will not represent any party, allow

the Ba'athist to take part, release all political prisoners. Ba'ath supporters

defeated the liquidation of the national guard which is only disarmed, the

cadres (20-40M] the nationalists [25-50M]

VIII. Damascus, 23 November.

According to the embassy, HAFEZ's conciliatory tone towards ARIF and his

justification of the events in Iraq is due to his desire to save the Ba'athists

in Irad.

A break with Irag would indicate a breakdown of the policy [25-5ФM]

Syria as well as bringing ARIF closer to NASSER. From this stem the compli-

ments

to ARIF and strong attacks on NASSER.

IX. Havana. 22 November.

According to a Venezuelan

source, the National Liberation Movement is

establishing permanent representation in Havana, increases its contacts, and

intends to establish representations in Europe - the first being in Prague.

The Cabinet of the Minister.

a.

Circular message; also sent to Hanoi, Paris, Stockholm and Budapest.

bo

Remainder of text irrelevant.

MS 88

CN PLDA 50109

TI -

- 3 -

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK,

AND

THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

---

