# 144-10001-10112

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878918

TOR SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10112

DATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

HCF

TITLE

3/0/FRD/T1281-63:

DATE

PAGES

12/21/63

2

SUBJECTS

:

FRANCE,

DIPOMATIC ACTIVITY

CUBA, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

REPORT

RESTRICTIONS

T

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S

DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENT INFORMATION

[R]

EMBASSY WASHINGTON REPORTS REACTION TO KENNEDY AND

[R]

IRI

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

JOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

• Dóc ID: 6878918

DORIB#SECRET DINAR

French

FRDBT

WS 10413, 10648,

10419, 10649-50

3/0/FRD/T1281-63

IS 21 Dec 1447Z P

Dist:

HCF

ST 300

EMBASSY WASHINGTON REPORTS REACTION TO KENNEDY AND CASTRO

INTERVIEWS

ER Paris: The Department

TO Havana: French Embassy

Msg NI:

516-20

13 Dec 63

[5-part message complete]

I am communicating to you herewith Washington telegram

NI. 7087-91 of 12 December 1963.

The Cuban affair has abruptly returned to the forefront with

the republication of articles written for L'Express by Mr. JEAN

DANIEL after his conversations with President KENNEDY and CASTRO,

first in the weekly The New Republic, and then in the New York

Times and the Washington Post. From the comments of the American

press, I might single out the following elements:

1. Although President KENNEDY did indeed mention Hungary

in his conversation with Mr. ADZHUBEI--MI. PIERRE SALINGER has

just acknowledged it after having denied it--it was only, according

to the White House spokesman, to show the importance of Cuba to the

United States. On the other hand, the President did not make any

allusion to the fact that the United States was a passive witness

to the Soviet intervention in Hungary in 1956. In any case, since

The Bay of Pigs, President KENNEDY never had any intention of invad-

ing Cuba. He categorically answered a question on this subject by

Mr. ADZHUBEI in the negative.

2.

The administration puts no trust in CASTRO's

statements to the effect that the Soviets installed rockets in

Cuba to prevent an invasion of the island by the United States.

French

3/0/FRD/T1281-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Doc ID:.6878918

Doc RefID: A4268747°

OP SECRET DINAR

French

3/0/FRD/T1281-63

At most, it is thought here that MI. KHRUSHCHEV may have told

CASTRO that the installation of these rockets was indispensable to

his country's defense.

3. MI. KHRUSHCHEV's decision is still explained by his wish

to compensate quickly and cheaply for the Soviet Union's strategic.

inferiority. Moreover, as a study by the Rand Corporation recalls,

this is what CASTRO told Mr. JULIEN of Le Monde when he admitted:

"It was not to ensure our own defense that we accepted the rockets,

but to reinforce the socialist camp's position. This is the truth,

even if others provide different explanations."

4. However that may be, the publication of these interviews

puts President JOHNSON in a delicate position. As MI. CHALMERS

ROBERTS remarked in the Washington Post, Mr. KHRUSHCHEV's

emissaries hint that perhaps an arrangement is possible between

the United States and CASTRO. The latter, in his interview with

MI. DANIEL, intimated that he might put an end to his terrorist

agitation campaign in Latin America if the United States lifted

its economic blockade of the island. Therefore, Mr. ROBERTS

acknowledges, this perhaps gives a margin to the United States

for maneuvering, but "only a short time after having acceded to

the presidency and only a year before the elections, Mr. JOHNSON's

possibilities

' for action in this field are very limited."

MS 19

CN ILC

TI --

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

