# 144-10001-10200

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879068

1

Doc Ref ID: A4269464

Date: 10/16/95

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

- --

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10200

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM : NSA

TO : HCF

TRI

TITLE :

3/0/CUD/T167-67

CUBAN PRESS AGENCY REQUESTS INFO ON KENNEDY

DATE: 02/24/67

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN MSG ASKING ABOUT THE DEATH OF DAVID W. FERRIE

JFK CONSPIRACY

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION : ₽

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS

P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

(R]

{R}

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 687

1068

Doc Ref ID: A4269464

IVI

CUVY

ECRET TRINE

WS 3289

Cuban

3/0/CUD/I167-67

IS 24 Feb 19362 P

Dist: HCF

CUBAN PRESS AGENCY REQUESTS INFORMATION ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

FIGURE

FR Havana: MARIO MADRAZO, Latin

American Editorial Staff

TO New York: PORIELA, Prensa Latina

Msg NI: 1

22 Feb 67

Urgent

[OUT-OF-SERVICE MESSAGE]

Comrade PORTELA,

Please send us information on the death of DAVI W

-FERRIE, cited as an important figure in District Attorney

JIM GARRISON's investigation of the KENNEDY assassination.

We want to know, if possible, what factors linked

FERRIE to the case, as well as the details of his death. Was

it suicide or murder?

164-330-210-4741

NOT RECORDED

MAR 3 0 1057

0

BUREAU SOURCE Ce Cuha

Released pursuant

to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RFK, AND

THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

MS

CN

II «-

INDEXED

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS I PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET TRINE

#978.

---

## Page 3

• Dốc ID: 6879068

Do

ef ID: A4269464

LINENT RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

6 BLEECKER STREET - NEW YORK CITY 10012 - PHONE: AJ WEBERMAN (212) 477-6243

FOI/PA

J. Edgar Hoover Building

Washington, D.C. 20535

1. Under the provisions of the FOIA I would like to request all files,

reports and related reports in which his name comes up on

DAVID WILLIAM FERRIE

Mr. Ferrie was arrested in New Orleans on 2/16/62 and was assigned #107062.

His name was mentioned repeatedly in regard to the Garrison investigation

of the JFK murder/conspiracy which took place in New Orleans. I have enclosed

a copy of a document your office sent me under FOIA which states that Ferrie

is dead.

2. Enciosed please find letter dated 14 Oct 77 from James M. Powers. I

would like to obtain all the additional material. I will pick this

material up

• in person when I visit the FBI FOI/PA Reading room on

November 9, 1977 if that is alright.

signed

in Out Wah

195%

pak 103118

1 Not

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN. RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

