# 144-10001-10342

## Page 1

SECRET MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10342

JATE: 10/09/98

PAGE:

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: NSA

FROM : HER

TITLE

2X/0/SID/T173-63 KING AND QUEEN OF THAILAND SEND CONDOLENCES

ALE: 10/24/6

AGES

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESURICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

ERJ ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM

NSA/CSS Manua 128-

Dated-#February 1998

-SECRET MORAY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK,

SEN.

---

## Page 2

SECRET SABRE

2x/0/SID/T173-63

IS 24 Nov 15492 P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

-SECRET

0/26562-63

KING AND QUEEN OF THAILAND

SEND CONDOLENCES

ER Bangkck: PHAIROT

TO Washington: THAIDLTO

MSg NE:

63

24 Nov 63 1300

Priority

Most immediase.

immediately followinz tae news of the assassination of

Presidene KENNEDY, Evo royal telegrams were sent direct to

President LYNDON JOHNSON and Mrs. S. F. KENNEDY in Washington,

D.C. The tex: of the two royal telegrams are as follows:

His Excellency Presidene LYNDON B. JOHNSON,

Washington, D. C., C.S.A.

is is with profound shock that the Queen and I have learned

CROUP 1

PAGE 1 of _ 3 PAGE(a)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC -

- SECRET

DO INCRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS 33

Thai

CH ILC

II 24 Nev 63 1010Z

P/L [English!

WS 31-BWN-8i063

2x/0/SID/T173-63

0/26562-63

PAGE 1

ot 3

_ PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS

PRES. JEK,

SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MUK, JR.

---

## Page 3

-SECRET SABRE

2x/0/SID/T173-63

-SECRET

0/26562-63

of the assassination of President KENNEDY. We deeply deplore

such a dastardly act perpetrated on the life of one so dedicated

to lasting progress

of mankind and to the defanseof world peace.

The Queen joins me in expressing to you cur most

heartfelt condolences and sympathy upon the great loss sustained by

the American nation and che free world.

(Signed) BHUMIBOL R.

Mrs. J. F. KENNEDY

Whice Heuse

Washington, D. C.

C.S.A.

The Queen and I are profoundly distressed so have leared

of che coagic and untimely ceach of the President of the United

States and hasten co express our most heartfelt condolences and

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOUNGRADING AND DECLASSTEZCALLON

PAGE? of 3 PAGE(»)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

•

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/SID/T173-63

SECRET

0/26562-63

your family.

(Signed] BHUMIBOL R.

In order to prevent any possible error, His Majesty the King

has been graciously pleased to cormand that the texts of the roya

telegrams quoted above be communicated to you so that you may

deliver them to their destinations as soon as possible.

act accordingly.

GROUP i

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC —

I SECKEN

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE _ 3

_ •i_3_ PAGE(s)

PAGE 3

_ 07_ 3 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

