# 144-10001-10308

## Page 1

Doc. ID: 6878974

De ITOFSECRET UMBRA-

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10308

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/9c

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

T0 : HCO

3/0/z-GHD/T135-65 MRS. KENNEDY'S MESSAGE RELAYED TO NKRUMAH

DATE

PAGES: 12/04/63

SUBJECTS.

KENNEDY, JACQUELINE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMEN

•LASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE CH LAST REVTEW : Ô7/24/98

ORICENANENG AGENCAS DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS:

[R]

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878974

******

Ghanaian

Doc Ref ID: A4268836

TOP SECRET DINAR

NOT TO BE REPRODUCED IN ANY FORM WITHOUT

PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THE RELEASING

AUTHORITY OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

*************NO FOREIGN DISSEM***************

GHDY

WS 1306

3/0/Z-GHD/T1335-63

IS 4 DeC 63

P

Dist:

HCO

MRS. KENNEDY'S MESSAGE RELAYED TO NKRUMAH

FR London: GHANACOM

TO Accra: FOREIGN

Msg NI: CHA/3677

26 NOV 63

For Osagyefo from KWESI ARMAH.

I have just returned from washington to London. All went well

at the funeral of President KENNEDY and your noble gesture in sending

me to represent you was much appreciated by Mrs. JACQUELINE KENNEDY

who would like me specially to express to you how deeply touched she

was by your kind message and to thank you most warmly for your

gracious demonstration of keen interest in, and affection for, her

and her family in this hour of sorrow. She would like me to recipro-

cate your kind wishes and to extend to you and your family her warmest

thanks and regards. She intends writing to you after sometime.

MS

--

Ghanaian

CN --

TY --

3/0/Z-GHD/I1335-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

