# 144-10001-10364

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879049

Doc Ref ID: A4269397

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10364

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

NSA

TO

TITLE

CUBAN REACTION TO DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

PAGES: 32/04/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

CLASSIFICATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESIRACTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

ORICFNANENG AGEREAS DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

ER] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

st

Đớc ID: 6879049

Doc Ref ID: A4269397

$I Dee 63

CUBAN

REACTION TO DEATH OF PRESIDE KENEDY

On 2y Novenber

Espiiian Aubassador Bastiar Pinto

Havane reportes

the

following:

AND CUN

8 10/03)

"Soon

arter the death of irresident

Kennedy sovarad authosities and persons assos108ad

8ith the Cuban dovermant openly expressed to me their

concern relative to the consequenoos in regard to

Cube and sure unanimous in bollsving that any other

president would be lavan worse.

"Anotner consern or the Cubans was expounded

in the unexposed spsoch by Fidel Castro on Sat

arday when

he accused the news agencies of trying

te connect tha Soviet Union and Cure to the

and asserted that the rasersonarden of the Unstea

Statos are trying to orate a state o& anti-Soviet

end anti-Cuban hysteria.

"arches, yesterday the foraign Ministry in

or 101al ocamique confined that the iniscated

assarsin tried to obrain a visa te cuba without

-1.

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. RE

AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

Đoc 1b: 6879049

Doc Ref ID: A4269397

TOP SHERST DINAR

# Deo 63

in that say,

to Invoive beforehand Cuba

and the

Soviet Union in the events and ass trying now to

gover up the masterminds and road notives for the

erime.

"There was no 08f10ial announcement here of

sorrow for the death of the President of the United

States."

Note: On 23 Noveuber the Chiloan Aabassador in Havana had

reported the following:

"ghe reaction in Havana to the assassination

of President Kennedy has been calm but cautious.

only isolated Connunist groups nave shown ay

joleing, The sadle and nonraale are reporting

objestively and an & correct manner, Mathou. 9h0

ing regret . maris missing! statement by the

goveranent. The nenspapers are printing today the

statenonte of the Cuban Asbassador 40 the United

Nations."

7On 23 November Cuben UN

delogate Lochuga stated in New York that

Cuba had received the news of the tragle death of President Kennedy

with deep sorrow; that all elvilized men

always grieved about suel:

events; and that

this was the fasking of the people and Covarment of

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 6879049

Doc Ref ID: A4269397

4 Dec 63

" (sard miasing] aircles ver seriously

concerned over the repercussions which the assas

sination of the President of the inited States may

have."

.. '

- 3-

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

