# 144-10001-10106

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878868

Doc Ref ID

14288

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

"AGENCY" INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10106

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

UMBRA

DATE: 03/25/97

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

[R]

3/POD/T1488-63:

3! ENCREASED TENSION IN HAVANA FOLLOWING VENEZUELAN

JAnE : 12/10/6.

SAGES

SUBJECTS

PORTUGAL

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

VENEZUELA,

_DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

MEXICO

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

CUBA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R]

ERI

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECIT UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc 1D: 6878868

Đốc Ref ID: A4268740

TOP SECRET DINAR

Portuguese

PODH

WS 9804

3/0/ POD/T1488-63

IS 10 Dec 2019Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

INCREASED TENSION IN HAVANA FOLLOWING VENEZUELAN COMPLAINT TO OAS

FR Havana:

TO Lisbon:

Msg Ní: 20

GONZAGA FERREIRA

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

3 Dec 63

co co

Confidential.

I wish to inform Your Excellency that a certain tension

prevails in the Latin-American embassies accredited here, since

they think that the risk of a break-off of relations with Cuba

has grown dangerously since the well-founded Venezuelan complaint

against Cuba because of her aid to the FALN and the resulting

convocation of the OAS. They think that ROMULO BETANCOURT,

while requesting hemispheric military action against Cuba in the

OAS, knows that he may not, or almost certainly will not, obtain

enough votes for his proposal. But such [2 gr G] would grant him

the authority then to demand and specify a total break of relations

with Cuba by the American States. The Brazilian Embassy believes

that Brazil will try not to go so far as to vote for a break, but

if the others approve it, she would have to follow the majority.

Tension between Cuba and Mexico has also increased suddenly

as the result of a violent note which the Foreign Ministry here

delivered to the Mexican Ambassador because of the detention in

Mexico City of a Mexican woman employed at the Cuban consulate

who was reportedly connected with the accused assassin of

President KENNEDY, LEE OSWALD. The Mexicans reportedly returned

the above-mentioned note.

The death of President KENNEDY, the Fidelista campaign to

incriminate U.S. Rightists in that assassination, lack of

knowledge as to the future direction of Washington policy [1 gr G]

Portuguese

3/0/FoD/T1488-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

1Đ: 6878868

Doc Ref tĐ: A4268740

TOP SECRET DINAR

Portuguese

3/0/ POD/T1488-63

Venezuela and the threat of armed action or at least diplomatic

isolation and the immediate tightening of the embargo, the

knowledge that this country is behind the subversion in Venezuela

with arms and men (the Cuban press, while ridiculing the incident

of the arms on the beach at Paraguana, gives no indications

whatever of indignation or repudiation of the Venezuelan accusa~

tion) have created a growing feeling of crisis. Cuban forces

continue with precautionary measures, and at dawn today there

was observed a large movement of military transports to the east

[2 gr G] call-up of the militia.. On the other hand, the internal

counterrevolutionaries reportedly have been very restless for

four days in expectation of the OAS resclutions.

MS 974

CN ILC

TI..

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

