# 144-10001-10352

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6879028

DO TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

NSA

144-10001-10352

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JATE: 10/09/9

AGE:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TITLE

3/0/UAD/T2424-63 U.S. -UAR PRESIDENT JOHN REPLIES TO "ABDUL-NASSER'S

PAGES: 12/09/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

DACSMFNCATIDE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879028

UAR

Doc Ref ID: A4269380

TOP SECRET DINAR

UADD

WS 17452-17453

3/0/UAD/T2424-63

IS 09 Dec 2249Z P

Dist: HCF Plus

ST 300

U.S.-UAR: PRESIDENT JOHNSON REPLIES TO 'ABDUL-NASSER'S MESSAGE

OF CONDOLENCE

FR Washington: Ambassador

TO Cairo:. KHARGIA

Msg NI: 396

25 Nov 63

(2-part message complete]

A. The message of condolence which H.E. the President was

kind enough to send to the new President was received with obvicus

appreciation in the official circles.

B. The senior officials in the State Department expressed.

this to me; they also stated that the reply of the new President

to the message had been sent to their Ambassador in Cairo.

I also learned that Ambassador BADEAU had been instructed to

communicate an oral message from the new President to the high

officials.

It contained the assurances of President JOHNSON

[Part 2] that he would continue his predecessor's policy of co-

operation with us.

it also contained some of his thoughts

vis-a-vis Yemen.

I will meet with Ambassador JERNEGAN, the Deputy Assistant

Secretary of State, on Friday, in accordance with his invitation,

for a general review of the situation in (B val the light of)

the recent events in their country.

MS 974

UAR

CN ILC

TI --

3/0/UAD/12424-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK,

JR.

---

