# 144-10001-10105

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878867

Doc Ref ID: A4268739

DEK $ SASSTNATION SYSTEM

UMBRA PACE: 03/24/97

IDENTIFICATION FORM

• -----

---

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10105

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCF

[R]

TITLE :

3/0/Z-BLD/T133-63:

MEXICAN AUTHORITIES CONDUCT BRUTAL SEARCH AFTER

PAGES

AGES: 12/14163

SUBJECTS

BRAZIL, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

MEXICO

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

•CUBA

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

MEXICO, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

[R]

[R]

[R]

[R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S

DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JEK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc:ID: 6878867

Doc Ref ID: A4268739

TOP SECRET DINAR:

*********NO FOREIGN DISSEM****+****shittit*s

Brazilian

BLDQ

WS 997

3/0/2-BLD/T133-63

IS 14 Dec 1625Z P

Dist: HCF

MEXICAN AUTHORITIES CONDUCT BRUTAL SEARCH AFTER KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION

FR Mexico City: PIOCORREA

TO Rio de Janeiro: Foreign Ministry

Msg Nr: 311

29 Nov 63

Restricted.

The Mexican Government through its Embassy in Havana

has returned the note delivered to that Embassy by the Cuban

Government protesting the detention in this capital of a Mexican

woman employed at the Cuban Embassy in the course of the

investigations surrounding the assassination of KENNEDY.

The above-mentioned note, the text of which was revealed

in Havana, was written in extremely violent terms. The

• Mexican Government does not contest the fact that the

employee was detained and a house search made on the day

following the Dallas crime, when it was learned that the

assassin had been here and had visited the Cuban Embassy as

well as that of the Soviet Union. Both of those

diplomatic missions reported that the visit involved a request

for visas for the two countries. It also appears certain that

the search in the home of the employee of the Cuban Embassy

was carried out with a certain brutality, which, moreover,

is usual in such cases here.

The aspect [4G/M] Cuban Government

seems to want to exploit here is that the search was made by

order of the official candidate for the Mexican presidency,

at the time still the Minister of the Interior, who, as I

reported in my telegram Nr. 290((A)) is opposed by the leftists.

( (A)) 3/0/BLD/T1918-63.

MS 991P

CN ILC

I'I

Brazilian

3/0/Z-BLD/T133-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released

pursuant

RFK,

AND

THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

---

