# 144-10001-10109

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878915

65713

UMBRA PACE: 03/24/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10109

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

HCO

[R]

3/0/FRD/T1269-73:* SEMINAR ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND PEACE MEETS IN INDIA IRI

PAGES : 12/31/63

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

FRANGE REACTION TE ASSAYSENATION

INDIA,

DOCUMENT TYPE

: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

[R]

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

TOP

UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6878915

French

DO TOES SECRET DINAR.

FRDBT

WS 10245,

3/0/FRD/T1269-63

10214-15,

IS 31 Dec 63 P

10246

Dist: HCO

ST 300

SEMINAR ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND PEACE MEETS IN INDIA

FR New Delhi: GARNIER

TO Paris: The Department

Msg NI:

1518-21

9 Dec 63

[4-part message complete]

The conference on foreign affairs and peace organized by

the "Committee of Indian Parliamentarians for Peace" (my

telegram NI. 1418((A))) was opened on Saturday by the Prime

Minister, who dwelt on the beneficent effects of the lessening

of tension between East and West and on the necessity that the

efforts in this direction should not be interrupted as a

consequence of President KENNEDY's assassination. He repeated

the Indian Government's attachment to the policy of nonalignment

despite Chinese aggression, which it had been obliged to stop

by force, and pointed out that it is not enough to denounce war,

but that

it is advisable to find means to prevent it.

The only foreign representatives • despite the efforts

Of DIWAN CHAMAN LALL, who incidentally had asked me to obtain

messages from President DE GAULLE, MI. POMPIDOU, and Your

Excellency and to whom I replied that it is not our tradition

to send them to meetings of this type • are Soviet, Yugoslav,

Ceylonese and British. Moreover, Madame NIKOLAEVA, member of

the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, brought congratulations only

from the nongovernmental organization. Yugoslavia delegated

Mr. VILFAN, former ambassador to New Delhi. Mr. GREENWOOD,

Chairman of the Labor Party, read a communication from

Mr. HAROLD WILSCN but made it clear that he was participating

French

3/0/FRD/T1269-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 3

"Doc IĐ: 6878915

TOP SECRET DINAR

Doc Ref ID: A4268743

French

3/0/FRD/T1269-63

in the seminar as a private individual.

As for the Indians, the (B val leading voices) are on the

whole either crypto-communist or left-wing members of Parliament.

We might name Mrs. ARUNA ASAF ALI among the former and

MI. MALAVIYA, former Minister of Fuel, and (B val Mr. KRISHNA

MENON) among the latter. The last-named, in his speech, made

a point of stating that in spite of the provocations of China

and Pakistan, India was maintaining her peaceful policy. He

observed that there can be disarmament or peace only to the

extent that there is a rapprochement between the USSR and the

United States: "The more these two powers work together, the

better it will be for the world."

((A)) Not available.

MS UKF-120

CN ILC

TI -=

*2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

