# 144-10001-10366

## Page 1

Dơc ID: 6879036

DO TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10366

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

VATE: 10/09/9

PAGE:.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

TITLE

3/0/ JAD/T1884-63 REPORT ON MEETING BETWEEN U.S. PRESIDENT AND PAKISTAN

AIL

AGES: 12/05/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

+

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6879036

Doc Ref ID: A4269399

TOP SECRET DINAR

Japanese

JADY

WS WST-27269

3/0/JAD/T1884-63

IS 05 Dec 2100z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

REPORT ON MEETING BETWEEN U.S. PRESIDENT AND PAKISTANI AND INDONESIAN

MINISTERS

FR Washington: TAKEUCHI

TO Tokyo:

Foreign Minister

Msg NI: 3127

30 Nov 63

"Priority

1. President JOHNSON met with both ABDUL NASUTION, the

Defense Minister of Indonesia and Pakistan's Foreign Minister,

ZULFIQAR BHUTTO, separately.

NASUTION, in response to the concern

expressed by the President about Indonesia's attitude toward

Malaysia, replied that Indonesia herself would not attack, but

would defend herself if attacked. I understand that the meeting

was profitable.

The President expressed his concern to BHUTTO

saying that he hoped to reaffirm friendly rèlations between America

and Pakistan and asked that both Presidents get together soon.

2. At the

time of President KENNEDY's death, President AZIKIWE

of Nigeria wrote to President JOHNSON saying that this assassination

indicates that there are deeply rooted feelings against the American

Negro, and that there is a need for serious consideration by the

African people as to whether or not they can trust the U.S. because

of the strong elements which discriminate against the Negro, and

whether or not the UN should be moved to another country. I under-

stand that President JOHNSON without answering the criticism

directly made a written reply on the 29th of November to the effect

that the U.S. would keep trying to promote equal human rights.

MS 00

CN --

TI ..

Japanese

3/0/ JAD/T1884-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE (s)

•TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant

to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

