# 144-10001-10274

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878937

Doc Ref ID: A4268779

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD AGENER

144-10001-10274

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

USA-73

TO : DIRNSA

DISCUSSION REGARDING ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNED\

CLASSMENEATIRE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE CURRAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

ER] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

DOEID: 6878202CZII044

OZiZK 00 DUL DETC3469

Jaizi 00 2SL BET

Doc Ref ID: A4268779

HA49 72ADA961

ДАДАДИТО

..--

UDE YDHAAD 53 22/2154Z MOV

UZiZi 00 SAL NRL DE

work

sheet

contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espior:

Sections 793,

794 and 793, the transmission or the revelation of which in any manner to an uncuthorized persor:

THIS FORM FOR INTERNAL AGENCY USE ONLY

00 2221532 ZiH

= EM USA 73

STO DIRNSA

INFO USA 751

ZEY

LL

USEC PET KIMBO Hi OPH 22-11-4740

FREUR 2E19232 NOV 63.

BTWN 2027/2031Z 22 WOV 03 RUSS MERCURY GRASS

FACS

REFLD

PROB

AT

GERA TO UNID OPERATORS AT TWO UNID STATIONS/DISCUSSING

THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. ONE OF

THE OPERATORS STATED" DID U HEAR THAT KENNEDY IS DEAD?"

A "THEY SAY THAT HE WAS SHOT", "ONE BULLET THRU THE HEAD".

OPERATOR GIVES OTHER DETAILS AND MENTIONS THAT THIS IS

NOT

NED IN POLITICS", NO REFERENCE TO ANY SOVIET ACTIONS

CLASSIFIED

WORK

SHEET

* U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 105.3-672003

BASED ON EVENT.

H/H

TECH INTO:

SIF

RZSC

U

OD. DON

MCS/ii DiD DEG ABLE

3.

UNSUBORD PROB SAI RELATED NET AT GERA, EAST

GERMANY

Ш

LL

4.

U/I-1

Title i8,

Espionage Laws,

prohibited

lates within the meaning of the

person is

any manner to an unauthorized

AL AGENCY USE ONLY

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK,

SEN.

RFK, AND THE REV.

DR. MLK, JR.

1/U/1-2

---

