# 144-10001-10070

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6878888

SO CRET UMBRA

Gal ta Are

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10070

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 03/26/9

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCF

[R]

3/0/CLD/T1075-8J:F CUBAN REACTION TO ASSASINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNED IRI

JATE

AGES: 11/24/6:

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVIT

CUBA, REACTION TE ASSASSINATION

CLASSIFICATION: REPORT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOR

UMBRA

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS. OF RECORDS CONC. THE ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN.

REK, AND THE REV. DR. MLK, JR.

---

## Page 2

D: 6878888

Chilean

Do Re IF Gs SECRET DINAR

CLDA

WS 29179

3/0/ CLD/T1075-63

IS 24 Nov 1917Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

CUBAN REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

FR Havana: Chilean Embassy

TO Santiago: Foreign Ministry

Msg NI: 130

23 Nov 63

--

The reaction in Havana to the assassination of President

KENNEDY has been calm but cautious. Only isolated Communist

groups have shown any rejoicing. The radio and news reels

are reporting objectively and in a correct manner, without

showing regret [2 gr G] statement by the government. The

newspapers are printing today the statements of the Cuban

Ambassador to the United Nations.

((A)) Circles were seriously concerned over the reper-

cussions which the assassination of the President of the

United States

may have.

í(A)) Obviius omission.

MS 20

Chilean

CN ILC

TI 23 Nov 63 1933Z

3/0/CLD/71075-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released pursuant to Executive Order 14176, DECLASS.

OF RECORDS CONC. THE

ASSASSINATIONS OF PRES. JFK, SEN. REK, AND

THE REv. DR. MLK, JR.

---

