# 157-10014-10089

## Page 1

157-10014-10089

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 08/06/95

Page :

1

JFK ASSASSINATION, SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10089

RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 11-H-08

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM : TWEEDY, BRONSON

TITLE :

DATE: 10/09/75

PAGES

:

92

SUBJECTS

: CIA

ASSASSINATION, LUMUMBA, PATRICE

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 1À, 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED

WITH DELETIONS

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32423477

Page 1

---

## Page 2

RHATION

te subject

vol 1 or

to Criminäli sne

TOP SEC, anton Bratea Erate

R1572

Report of P'roceedings

• 3/10/22

Ela

1•191N

Hearing held belore

Senate Select Committea to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

7 6

Thursday, October 9, 1975

Washington, D.C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned ever

to the Committee for destruce:.

WARD & PAUL

110 FIRST STREET, S. F.

WASHINGTON, D). C. 20003

(202) 544-8000

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET

Prona (Ardo 202) 186-6008

ant

1

•2.

WITNESS

Bronson Twoody

PAGE.

EXHIBITS

5

6

7

10

1:.

14

!!

1r,

r.

EXHIBIT

No. 1

No. 2

No. 3

No. 4

No. 5

No.

6

No. 7

• - ..

No.

8

No. 9

No. 10

No.

11

No. 12

FOR IDENTIFICATION

3

11

29

32

35

39

41

43

46

57

58

63 .

---

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

15390499

TASCIONE : ant

TOne |A18 207) 344-

2

1

EXECUTIVE: SESSION

-.

Thuraday, Octobar 10, 1975

=÷-

5

Unitad Statas Senato,

Salact Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Raspact to

Intalligance Activities,

9

washington. p.c.

li

The committes mot, pursuant to notice, at 11:25 o'clock

a.m. ir. Room 407, Tho Capitol, the Honorable Richard Schwalker

presiding.

Presant: Senator Schwalker (presidina).

Also present: Frederick Baron and Rhott Dawson, Profes-

::! sioral Staff Mambers.

15.

r.

-

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

Mane lArds 2021

a...,...

TOP SECRET

2

2

Sanator Schwelker, Mould, you raise your right hand?

Do you solennly swear that the testimony you are about to.

give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

8o halp you God?

6

MI. Iraady. I do.

7

Sanator Schwalkar. It has baan nico meeting you.

MI. Twoody. Thank you very much.

9

(Wharaupon, Sanator Schwalker left the hearing room.)

!:

(Discussion off the record.)

::

Mr. Baron. MI. Twoody, you have just recolved the oath

:: from Sonator Schweiker, who has now luft the room, and you ar

i: : under no obligatior. to continue to testify in his absence, but

1÷ obviously the committes would appreciate it greatly if you

"would continue to testify.

-=.=

Are you willing to continue to tostify in the sanator's

!: absence?

Mr. Twoedy. I plan to testify fully.

MI. Baron.

You are willing to tustify to tha truth as h=:

as you car. do it?

Mr, "weady, I will indeer.

Mr. Baron..

Are you aware that you have the rinht to

coursel?

:..

MI. Twoady. I ain.

"Ir. Baron.

You ars appearing here voluntarily without

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

Master,. 4

HH:

TOP SECRET

3

1

counsel?

2

Mr. Iwoody. I am.

Mr. Baron. MIe you also awaiy that you may cease answering

questions at any point if you wish to consult with coungal?

MI. Tweady. I am.

6

Mr. Baron. Finally, are you aware that all of your consti-

7

tutional rights are intact, Including your fifth Amandment

i righte to romain silent?

MI. Tweody, I am.

1'

MI. Baron. All right, than.

1:

Lot us proceed to roview

a set of docunents which were not

:::available to us in your first examiration.

The

attempt hare

today is not to go over a lot of old ground that we covered

is ' in your first axamination but to focus our concorug on a few

:! main ovents in the alleged story of an assassination plot

against Lumumba, and to rofresh your recollection by ravlow of

1:: those documents.

Lut

me introduce as

Exhibit l a cable from Allen Dulles

:: to the Leopoldville Station, marked for Robert. Guthman on

October 26th, 1960.

i:

(Tho document referred

to was marked Tready

Fixhibit No. l for

identification.)

* :

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

Mama (Ards 202) 3A4 1001

TOP SECRET.

TESTIMONY OF BRONSON TWEEDY

2

MI. Baron. He discussad this cable in your previous

appearance, did we not?

MI. Twoody, August 26th.

May I correct the date? It 18 Auguat 26th.

Mr. Baron. Cartainly.

Mr. Twaady, It is rathor important.

8

Mr. Baron. It 1s lugust 26th.

Mr. Tweady, Yes, we did indood discuss it the last time.

]':

Mr. Baron. After you took another look at this cable

1:

this morning bofore we went on the record, you mado a remark to

1:

¿ the offect that this cable was a source of authority as far aa

1!

you wore concerned at the time.

Is that your imprussion now?

;!. !!

i;

Mr. Tweady, Yos.

1r

Let mo just add to that a bit. The cable per se I did not

1:

'ramember, but it is porfoctly obvious the cable is the authori.:.

1÷.

When I first talked to Mr. Bissell about this, he cortainly

impliad the only reason the subjact was beina raised is because

:.

it had bean of national policy laval concorr..

I do not thin:

::

it could ho more clear-cut thai that. This was basically, this

was the formal axpression of that bu the Diractor himself.

I cannot remomber which came first, did I sod this cable

first, or did I talk to Mr. Bissall first. I suspect that !

talked to Mr. Hissell first.

It must have been absolutely in

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 8

009

1000;

HIH

TOp SECRET

5

1

tho same time pariod.

2

This maraly confirmed what I think I probably hoard from

I Mr. Bissell first.

5

Mr. Baron. In this discussion with MI. Bissell, you are

Il reforring to the subject of getting accoss to Lumumba for the

6

i purpose of assassination.

7

Mr, Twoody, I think it probably camo up in the senso that

the thrust óf the Amejican position was that thare was no

-:

. solution in the Congo without the fall from powar of Mi. Lumunha,

1.

and no measure should be overlooked to achiave this --constitu-

:: tional, ravolutionary and indeed, axecutive action, if you want

:: to call it that.

MI. BaIOt..

Meaning asgassination?

Mr. Twoody. Yes.

But none of these possibla measuras were excluded, and the

main point was that averybody agreed that rumumba, had to q0 or

wo wore in for very serious trouble in the condo.

MI. Baron.

You were referrina

a moment aao in discussing

:: this cable from Allen Dullas to the fact that when you first

discussel the possibility of asgasginatina rumumba as one means

:..

of removirg him from power with Richard Bissoll, Bissoll roarin!

:::

to this cably.

"r. Tweedly. No, I woull have sean this cable when it wei.:

out.

I an afraid you cannot pin me down on this, bacauss I

cannot remanhor the sarguence of avants.

It would have hean a

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

• 1 4r 00 7071

HH

TOP SECRET:

perfactly natural follow-up to my discunsion with Bissell. It

2.

is conceivable that this wont out bafore I talked to Bissall, 1

do not axcluda that, but the two ware totally in tanden.

MI. Daron. Having taken a look at all of the documents

5

that we are about to introduce into the record today, before

6

"we bagin taking your testimony on the racord, are you ablo to

> pinpoint with any moro procision your initial discussion with

• Mr. B1asall of the prospoct of assassinating Lumumba?

9 :

2..

MI. Tweedy, Pinpoint it in tarma of time?

MI. Baron. Yas.

Mr. Tweedy. No, not in tarms of time. I can only assum

Мг. Вагот.

It would have taken place shortly hefore this

¿: Allon Dulleg cable?

MI. Twoody. Either shortly befora, or shortly aftar,

::bacause the next ser199

of cables obviouslv net the show, as

It ware, on the road.

May I comment just generally on those cablas as a group?

There are no surprises

in them as

far as I am concerned, in

terms of detail. Much of it, even to this dav, I still do not

ramember.

O1:0

aspect emergos ver; clearly for me, that wa wery ver!

careful ahout uxamining this on the possihilities of doira

drythlug agaiust Lumumba.

rasically, this whole noriod was a

serios of exchanges with the flold who nero seakina, as you car.

soe from that cable traffic, various measures that might perfor

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

More (Aco 707) 346-600

vI

HH

TOP SECRET

7

or achieve the goal, including, indead assaanination, bust not ,

by any means limitad to that, that ma vare in trouble findina

meang which appeared socure, particularly means which kept the

U.S. hand hidden. It is the to and from, and the atmosphare

5

6

of it which 1s vary familiar to ma, the details of 1t, much of

I1t even on reading them, le rather unfamillar to me. I found

¿ ¡ no surprisos in it.

8

Mr. Baron. Having refrashed your recollaction by reviewirs

these cablas, can you add any graater specificity to the racora

about tho substance of your convorsations with Richard Blasall

i:

on tho possibility of assassinatira Lumumba?

::

MI. Twady. I think what wa usad to do, as I ramambor it.

::whar. it came to the technical axchange with the station on one

asset versus another, the possible security weakness of this

man versus the possible strengths of another, sissall loft this

i' largely to me. I do not mean to say that we did not from time

!: to time roview it. He did not. debate with me on whether White

Uclam.luwas somabody who was worth dealing with of not, bocaus.

•he had Belgiar. connections, for yxample.

Mr. Maron.

You are savina he would have left the onutati..!!

dotails to you?

"I. Tweady. The oppiational dotails of tryina to come 1'

with sone solution that looked as if it mady sense, and hall a

promiso of success.

I do not recall that wa would discugg this

type of a cable in dotail. As you can sey, he raleased quito

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

ROM INs

7071

HH

TOP SECRET

8

1

a numbar of them, becauso ho wanted to remain familiar with

than.

(Discussion off the racora.)

MI. Baron. Back on the racord on this subjoct.

5

MI. Thaady. No, I do not have any further rocollection of

6

datallad discussions with Bissell on this. On the other hand.

7

¿It was perfoctly cloar that he remalnod activaly interentod in

1t. I am sure that he was the one that had the idoa of Justin

" O pounal, for example, I think he undoubtadly came up with

that idas. As you recall, I had forgotten untirely that Justir.

1:: 0'porliall had avor played a rola in this. I am sure when he

1: fixed on D'Donnell the posalbility to assist the die of ciatica

1:: ho must have discussed this with him. I can almost say I

1: ronamber it, but hardly.

) !,

Mr: Baron. Do you have any recollaction of what. ßissell

li said to you in the saries of discussions on the prospect of

assassinating Lumumba about the level at which the exploratior.

of

this prospact had beer. authorized?

Mr. Twoody, No. That is the aspect I was nover cloar on

:

excapt that it was parfectly clear to me that he was quite

:.

corfida..t that this was

-- I am now talkian about the elimination

:: of Lumumba by whatevor means. I am rot talking necessarily

:.

about assassination: I want to be quite clear on thet.

I vas quits clear in my mird that the policy levels of

Waghington wore agreed that Lumumba must do. I cannot no ani

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

Indus

HH

TOPSECRET

9

1

furthor than that. I cannot say, for axample, that B1as011

2

said I think as an Agency we should consider assassination on

this or that this had beon discussed with the polloy lavals

of govarument. I do not. know, and it was naver mado olgar to

5

mo.nor: does this cablo make clear, but it was perfactly clear

6

that Mr. Dulles felt quite quiet in his mind about discussing

any of thase aspocts with the State Department or the Ambassador.

Mr. Baron. Off the record.

9

(Whereupon, a briaf racoss was takan. )

10

MI. Baron.. He are back on the racord now.

1:

Whans ne stopped, we ware discussing your account of your

1"

meatinan with Richard Bissull where the subject of aumansinatiny

Lumumba had arisen amorg other means that had boen considered

1÷

In disposing of Lumumba. Did Richard Bissell over indicato

:

1:, Il directly or indirectly to you that he had the authority of the

Prosidont of the Uniter States for moving forward with an

1:

"operation which might include assassinating Lumumba?

11I. Tweady. Lot me make it quite clear, he certainly

!: nover monitioned the Presidant at all.

Мт. Вагом. Ну пате?

Ir. Tweary, Hy remy, or even by any infication. It was

martly my impressior reinforced, cartainly, althar befors or

aftar, uf this cable of Allan Dulles that this was a policy

¿lovel dacisior, but the axtart to which the Exacutive had

assasgination discussed with him at all, I cannot comment on.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

1ю0к

10

1

It 1s perfoctly obvious that the Agency felt that it had

2

the support of tha. Executiva in afforts to aliminate Lumumba.

It was at loast my impression throughout thia whole parlod that

If it avar came down to the point where somebody said, I thirk

5

6

na can do it, and we decided upon the moans, that somoone would

have said, well, baforo we do, obviously thare has to be final

approval. I would not have known whare the final approval

* i tould have come from. I would not axpect that my corresporidance

9 " with the Chlof of Station In Leopoldville would result in the

1i:

assassination of MI, Lumumba without further retarance.

Mr. Baron. You were under the impression that whatever

1:

steps you were involved in toward aliminatira bumumba, as you

I'put it, were fully authorized at the highest level of the

government?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, I was.

MI. Baron. That would include the President?

1:

Mr. Twaady, I do not

really think I can answer that

i' questior., Mr. Baron. Wher. someborly at my lavel, faloly serior

though it was, Isceives clear-cut assurances that the policy

:.

level want.s

somethirn done, it is vorv difficult for him to

:..

judge whether tho Pryaidant por so has boar in contact with tie

Agelicy or that ha has don. this through his cational security

rivisor, tho secretary of stats, or whoever. There could be

:: 10 way that I could judge that.

I think it would be its misleadira it I were to try to

TOP SECRET

HH

---

## Page 14

....:..!

1

2

5

7

8

1:i

1:

::

::

TOP SECRET

11

road into it alther then or now.

MI. Baron. Whatever impression you had of the axtent of

the authorlty for the steps that you were taking to eliminato

Lumumba was derived from your conversations with Richard

B188al1?

Mr. Twaady. And the cable.

MI. Baron. And the cablo by Allan Dulles.

\

Ms. Twoody, Which merely Indicated to me that the Agencu

was confidant that it had its policy guidance and was thus

===

acting accordingly.

MI. Baron. Botwool this cable on Minust 26th which

Allan Dullas dispatched

to the condo and the cahle wo will now

mark Exhihit 2, which is a cable from yourself to Loopoldvilla

on Septembor 19th, marked Fyes Only, Guthman from ladwin.

(The document. refarien

to was marked Tweedy

Exhibit No. 2 for

identification.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

• ( Алка 2027 304

coon

TOP SEGRET

12

1

MI. Baron. Hare thare any othar mestings that you racall

2

batwoon yoursalf and Richard Bissell where he asked you to

move bayond the exploratory stage to the implamentation stary

4

" in assaasinating Lumumba?

5

MI. Thaady. I do not know at all. I just do not racall

6

that that over occurred.

MI. Baron. Lot ua turn, than, to this cablo.

8

Thia cable indicates -

Mr. Twoody. This '1s the one on the 19th?

Мт. Вагоп. Yos.

(Discussion off the racord.)

1:

Mr. Baror. Back on the record.

This cable begins with your indication. to the Chlot of

i: Station that someone was procaading shortly to the condo who

::, would announce himself as Sid Erom Paris.

First of all, to backtrack, suthman, in this cable, is

the Chief of Station, is that right?

1÷

Mr. Tweedy. Correct.

*Ir. Baron:.

Who we agreed would ho rafurred to as the

Chief of Station or by his allas, Hadamena, and Jadwin 1s--

'Ir. Tweedy. My pseudorym.

i::

Mr. Baro!:.

Did you have a first name ir the paeudonom?

Mr. Twasdy. Thomas K.

i.:

'Ir. Raro::.

Who was Sid from Paris?

:.:

Mr. Tweady. I was toving to think. The identity is sir

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

TOP SECRET

13

Brown. Sid Brown as a nama means nothing to ma.

2

MI. Baron. It I roprasent to you that no havo had tastimos:

from Staney Gottilab that this identity stood for himeols, does

that rafrash your recollection?

5

Mr. Twoody. It would not surprisa me. It was my assumption

6

that it probably was, but I could not racall, so I find -- in

other words, your explanation, I think, la what I would have

expocted.

9

Mr. Baron. Do you have any independent recollection of

1:

dispatching Sidney dott Leb on a minaion to the Congo?

Mr. Twoody, I have the most unclear racollaction that i

:: discussed with ME. Bissoll Slanoy Cottie goinn no the

1:: Congo, I hava no recollections of any convorsations I hal

i with Me. Goethtabhimsalt, although i am quite convinced i hat

them.

In other words, it is inconceivable to me that he would hav=

!: gone to the Congo without seeing me. I carnot recall the

substance of our discussions, although I assume, and I imari..:

Mr. Bissoll must have shared in this, we discussed what it was

all about, the oparational problams involved, so that ha, in

turn, could be gomawhat sansible about

what his own supportin:

sula du: this miant be.

Who I say this, it is a reasonable assumption but it is

:.:

not diract. r=collectior..

Mr. Baron.'

Doss thie cablo indicate to you that you dir

TOP SECRET

11H

---

## Page 17

mona (Area 707)

#TOP SECRET

14

1

dispatch-Slandy cotellab, to the Congo on e highly sensitive

mission?

MI. Twoody, It doos indead.

When you say I dispatched him, I would say it would bo

5

moro accurata to say that Mi. Bissell and I dispatched him. I

6

am surd the authority for him going would have come from ha

7

8

rathor than ma, but wa arrangod the details.

MI: Baron, Your comment about the fact that the authority

would have flowed from Mr. Bissoll directy is borne out, 1s 1t

9

10 !!

not, by Mr. Bissoll's initlals on this cable?

1:

Mr. Troady. Yos, axactly.

1:

Mr. Baron. Was that a fairly unusual practica, to have

1÷

both the DDP and the Chief of the Africa Division sign a

1÷ cable?

15-1

MI. Twaady, Quite common. Throughout the organization.

1r l on mattors of althor particular sensitivity or so important that.

1: the DDP wished to be constantly informod about correspondence

i: on a subjact, the Chiaf of the Division would originato and

sund out cables ard have it detually signed off by the Dep.

That wag quite a common practico in the Agency.

Mr. Baron.

Do you have a racolloction, having seen this

26

documert, of the fact that you set up a spacial charnel urina

i:

tho YOPROP sensitivity indicator?

MI. Tweary. I uld not recall YOpRop, but I racall special

2:

channels.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

"TOP SECRET

15

1

Ms. Baron. This would have restricted all traffic from

• i

2

yoursalf to Chiat of Station, la that correct?

Mr. Twaady, Yas. My Deputy would also have access to it.

4

1n my absanco.

5

Mr. Baron.

That would be Glon Fields?

6

Mr. Twoody, Yos.

Mr. Baron. Would Richard Bissell havo access to 1t?

8

Mr. Twaady. Indead he would.

9

MI. Baron. Allon Dulles also?

16:

Mr. Twoody, Certainly 1f hu wantod, absolutaly.

11

Mr. Baron. Why was a snecial communications channel set

Ic i up in this cable?

Mr. Tweady, Becausa of the sensitivity of the subject.

1: This, agair, was a frequent procedure in the Agency on sensitive

1l matters. It one was about to mount a sensitive operation, ore

Is : of the first things normali!

done was to set up special

1: communications procedures

so the dissemination of the messagos

1: could be restricted to what was required.

Mo. Baron. In this case, the aspecially sensitive subier tri

which you were restricting cornunications accuss was the eliri-

:.

natior of Lumumba by one means

or another?

MI. Tweedy. That is corruct.

:.

Ir. Baron. What was the assianment the Sidney Gottlish

;.:

was to explain to the Chier of Station Who: he arrived in the

'::

congo?

TOP SECRET

HH

---

## Page 19

TOP SECRET

16

1

Mr. Twaady, That, I do not recall. I can only assume

2

that jldhay cotellabwould have discussel wich the chiat of

i Station Instruments which TSD might have which could ba of

4 assistance in an assassination attempt. I assuned he discussed

3'. his Invantory, what.over 1t might be, and the two prosumably were

6 trying to come to some conclusions as to what might havo the

7 : bast chanco or the most practical chance of boing used.

This 1s my assumption. I think in this early stago, that

9. would have bean the purpose of the axerciso.

Mr. Baron. Lot mo represent to you the testlony of Sire

1: Gottliabrabout two conversations that he had at Headquarters

:: bafore he undertook the mission to the congo li santanher of

1: 1960.

First, when Dr. nottllaby looked at this cable and some

subsequant. cables which we will discuss today, he said these

¿¿ cables appliod to himsalf. He confirmed the fact that he took

:: a trip to the Congo and arrived on sentember 2ath as 1s Indicated

by a subsurquent cable, and left or. Octoher sth, as is indieeter

..

by another cable.

Fortifan said before he lift the corre - i da sorr.

before he left for the Condo -- he harl a conversation with you

ard file: Fields in which you instructed him to taio a lathal

material to the congo and sivo it to the chier of station

with instructions to assassinate Lumumba if it vare nossible

aid to instruct the Chier of station

in the tochnical means hy

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 20

"reuism"

HH

TOP SECRET

17

1

which this lethal material could be administered through

2

Lumumba's food of toothpasté or something that ho would incost.

Mr. gottllabjalro tastilled that in that conversation you

Indicatad to him that thaay instructions wore baing given at

5

Richerd gissell's authority.

6

Did that convarsation take placo?

7

-.=

(Discussion off the racord.)

8

MI. Twoady, His testimony does not basically retrenh my

9

! manory. The only aspect of it which I would find unrealistic is

=

that ho had an instruction from me to tall the chiaf of statlor

to use this material and no ahead ard assassinate Lunumba, as

If, do effact, that is all tho authorlty that was

nacassary.

To be frank, that does not make sense. The rest of it is

1: perfoctly feasible. I do not iscall it in the detail, but 1

1:: am not soing to deny whathfidisala. I think his racollectior.

1r, li that I told him, in affact, to go to the Chlot of Station an

I sort of got the show or: the road and use the poison and

assassinate Lunumba without any further caramony is just rot !!:

way

it would have happenel.

"Ir. Baror. Why is that?

ir. Twearly.

for the simple

reason that under no circumgt?.t"

%.:

would that instruction haya boor: given by me without refareno..

:..

to higher authority up through the chair of commard.

Mr. Baron. When you say roference to hinhyr authority,

:..

what do you madr?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 21

more lAuse 2071 164-600

AUL

Cala

TOP SECRET

18

1

Mr. Twaady. My higher authority in the first instance

2

would be Mr. Bissall.

MI. Baron. Mr. Cottllabdid tastity --

MI. Tweedy. I undarstand.

5

Mr. Baron. -- that you refarrad in your conversation with

6

7

8

9

him to the fact that you had authority from Mr. Bissall for the

asaignment you wore giving to cottilobi

Mr. Tready. The only thing that Mr. Cottllab would disanrao

on 1s that thare would be no further refarence, which his

10

statament implias from Leopoldvilla bafore thay took any action

11

on this matter, in other words, take the final action on this

i mattor, and that was never a mattor, to the hast of my recollec-

1! tion, that was yver delegatod by Mr. Bissell, In other words.

14

Mr. Bissell never said, look, you have the picture, do ahead

and do it in your own good time without any further reference

16

to me or anybody else, nor is the tenor of this correspondance

as I Inad it that way at all.

Mr. Baron. Do you recall if Mr. Bissoll ever want as far

:: as telling you that if an opportunity arose to carry off the

:: assassination of Lumumba in a situation whore it would ho

i :

practically impossible to confirm, that there was authority

:::

for proceeding

with the assassination with Headquarters, that

the Chief of Station Would be, under thore circumstances,

:.;

authorized to procoad to assasgirate Luminha?

:.:

Mr. Tweedy.

No, 1 do not.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 22

2077324

4001

*TOP SECRET

19

]

Mr. Baron. Do you have a racollaction about that one way

2

or the othar?

Mr. Thaady. I do not racall that he avar put it to ma

this way.

5

Mr. Baron. Let us than break down your statement about this

6

mooting with (Dr. Gottilab) Into component parts:

7

You agras now, having heard Dr. Cottliab"s tostimony, that

8

It 1o true that you had asked (Dr: Gottllabito go to the Conqo?

_ 9

Mr. Tweady, Indeed, as I assumed I had, yes.

Mr. Baron. It to also true that you know that Dri Gott litel

i: was to carry a lethal material to the Chine of station in tri

Congo?

Mr. Twoody. If ho says so, I do not Aladdred with him.

:: I do not frantly recall thet at this soint, but l am perfectly

wadded to accapt. what hu says.

. ....

Mr. Baron. Asguming, for the moment, that you would have

iraquired tho Chisf of Station to chock back with leadquartars

.. bofore ho carrind out an assassination mission, would it bu

true that vou assianed de. Corellady the task of Instructina

the Chitf of Station to assassinete lumumbe on that basis?

r. Tweady. Gr. bottlieb was the head of the Technical

Sarvicos Division, or whataver it was called in those days.

1r. Baron. Let me jump in

for

a moment..

At this point, for about a yoar and a half, he was the

:.:

scienco Advisor to MI. Bissell, aul ha moved to Tachnical

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 23

hon

HH

TOP SECRET

20

1

sarvices ahortly thareaftar.

2.

Mr, Twoady, The way you put it to ma was that I instructor.

5

coterialito sosassinate Lumumba. The answer to that 18, 1 am

"sure I nover instructed dottllabi to assansinato Lumumba, This

I Is the way you put it to me.

6

MI. Baron. Lat. ma correct that..

7

What

I meant to say was, would you have asked "Cottliar.

to convey the instruction to the Chief of Station that he was

9

to assassinato Lumumba if ho found a way to do it and if he

10

1: 1

confirmed it with lleadquarters?

4r, Twoody, yy arswer to that. is almost cortalrly not.

i: "That would have bear cousiad in other corrasiondence, which !

i: " think i's demonstrated by thase cablos, to the chief o! Statior:

direct from me with authority of Mr. Bissell. I would not have

i: I used, neither would sr. Bissa11, Mr. Gottllab as the channel

i: for this instruction.

!'

Baron.

Ir. Cottli-D has also testiflad that, aside

fron carryino the materials to the Chief of station aar!

ingtructing

ir their use and givind him an instructior about

missior to essassina-e lumumbe, that he had one

further role

i: the cungo: he was to serve as a tachrical advisor to the

Chisf of station on the fadsibility of usin these biolerice!

2:

substancos to carr: off the operation.

As

perrag our it, dettlieves en stay down there to:

a short period of time to datermina tha technical feasibiliti

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

• 1 AN

HH

STOP SECRET

2.1

1

of tho operational plan that the Chlaf of Station might como

2

up with.

Mr. Tweody.

This seans quito roasonable to me. Presumably:

with his tochnical knowledge of the nature of thase materials

5

ho would bo in a position to aithor comment on or adviso the

6

Chiof of station as ha attempted to put togather somo kind of

7

operation. That makas good senso to mo.

8

He would raquire, basteally, a tochnical advisor.

9

Mr. Baron: SprE-COtt abalso testiflod that the materials

he took with him ware of a fairly short life. Thair toxicity

11

would wane within a matter of wooks.

ii"

alvan that bit of Information to rafrash your recollect le..

:.!

does that make it more likely that bottliebiwas thero. to ala

1:: the chlof of Station in actually carrying off the administratior:

*Of these drugs, as opposed to diving him general instructiors

In ' in the une of such lethal substances?

Mr. Twaady. I do not know really that I can comment. on

i' that. If the materials would deteriorate fast, the use of te.

i possible, I would stress the latter, would necessarily have

to hi expeditier, but the overwhelming concern of lisarquarters

aid the field, andin, demonstrated in this correspondence was

our coricer, that this thing could bo dore at all, that it. be

done right, securely, aid that the U.s. hard

should he

corCealed.

Is this wore at odds with the life of thase matarials, !

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

TOP SECRET

22

tape lb

1

2

think that would have just beon too bad. But I think it 18

parfectly clear that wa would not have expoditod anything at

I the risk of doing lt unprofassionally.

5

Mr. Baror, At the point that gottllab loft for the congo

"aftar talking with you, would he have bean enpowerad to convey

¡ to the Chiat of station that an assassination of Lumumba could

7

8

I be carried off If he could noet the crlterla you just ladd out,

I concealment of the U.S, hand and use of those materials before

9

their potency waned?

Mr. Twoady. My answer to that would be he wold be in io

i: position to do anything more with tho Chis! of Statior: 1f thei

:: ronchod that point in planning, that as of the last time hy

1: i was at lleadquartars that there would probably ba an approval

!:. from Washington.

:: i

Mr. Baror. You would axpect, then, the Chiaf of statior.

would have been expected to reconfirm with leadquarters the

' fact that he had a go-ahead?

Mr. Tweedy. It would novyr have occurrad

to me otharwis?.

"Is. Baron. It would ba your testimony that, although you

do not specifically recall vour conversation with dE. costlien

you would have made that clear toffr. rottliab?

i.:

is. Treedy. I would have thounht so: yas, but I could not

comment ay further.

Mr. Baros. The reason for that is you do not recall the

::

conversatior?

TOP SECRET

HH

---

## Page 26

1 Arse 202)

4001

TOP SECRET

23

Ms. Jhaody. Not only that, DiEGotEllabi was an familiar

as I was with (a) the sansitivity of this particular project

and what was involved and the way that the Agoncy did 1ts

business, which was things of this kind were not dealt with on

3 sort of an offhand basis.

6

7

Mr. Dawson. What 1s offhand?

Mr. Twoady. The fact that the flald and Pre Gottllelywere

"Sivan something in the nature of a blank check as to how they

would ao about it and when, without further rafarance to

1

Hoadquarters.

Mr. Dawson. If we are to the this to the cables, then.

Is there something in the cablas predatina gottllopig vladt to

I the congo which would load you to ballave that it had previous!:

boa, authorized by some words in those cables?

Mr. Tweady, What, MI. Dawson, hal previously boon

i authorized?

Mr. Dawson. The authorization of the assassination effort,

the alimination of Lumumba.

MI. Tweady, Only in the most general terms.

No operatio:.

had beer put forward by the field. In our busiress, those

thiras were done by operational plarning, at which point one

came un with an operation that was agreed upon hy the station

and by leadquarters, and this, then, would have beer.

either

implamaited or nut, accorling to the sav-go from lleadquarters.

:15.

Dawson. That kind of operatloral planning is

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 27

TOP SECRET

24

astor ME. ¡Gottliobjarrivos in the congo, 1s that corroct?

Mr. Twoody, This, in affect, is that (Indicatinal.

You

can tall by the Chlat of Station, thare 1s no furthar

roference to Mr. Gottilob, as 1 rucall.

Mo. Baron. In this cable traffic?

• Mr. Twoody. In this cable traffic, was looking at all

8

i sorts of ways and means of eliminating Lumumba, not restricted

to assassination, which coincidas oxactly with my recollaction

У

of the: parlod batwean whon the subject was first broached to the

station and that rathor indafinablo parlor when, in affect, 1t

was all over, which, I sunposo, hagically is the disampearan.e

of Lumumba.

I think all of this traffic supports my contantion that

;: under the instructions he was given, the Chief of Station in

:: " Loopoldville set about explorina all allays and found none

!:crystal clear.

Thore were problema with all of them. Some

!' lookod more promisint than others.

Individuals who might be

' used

obviously looked more promising than others. Some were

: discussed

did discarded, le commented on some. And so it

wait.

Mr. Baron. I think that we should proceed in a moment

to go through these cahles with a closs eye, one by one.

One further point inGr. dotellabitestimony, to be fair

to him, he said he was under the impressior. that it was denerel

Agancy procedure that in a misslor like this one the chia! c!

TOP SECRET

HH

---

## Page 28

sonora

1 Aar

HH

TOP SECRET

25

Station probably would check back with Headquartars, that any

2.

prudent Chiat of Station would chock back to roconfirmhie

autborityto go ahead with an assassination operation, bution.

Tottllabjsald li his conversation with you he was not told

that he should convey to the Chief of Station the requirement

6

-==

i that ha should check back with leadquarters bafora he proceadad

7

i with the assassination of Lumumba.

8

Mr. Twoady. I cannot comment on his statements, because

9

I cannot recall what I sald to him. It cartainly is parfect.lv.

1:

concaivable to me that I could havo hall this conversation with

him and not mantioned this, that this would he covered in al!

:: the bagic corrasponderco that I was havin with the chlot of

:. Station.

Mr. Haroi.

so ther it is possibly -- or ta i+ nrobable

that in your instructiona to Idnoy cottliabjabout his mission

to the congo you minht not have explicitly mertlored the

requirament

that tha Chief of Station returr

to Headquarters

to reconfirm his authority to move ahead with the assassiratim..

Mr. Teady.

It is, l suppose, possible. I am not goin

10

say it is not possible.

I am metaly saving that that is

1ot the way we did business, did on the mole, Sidney rottlia!

would be as

familiar with that as I would a nurhaps not as.

familiar with it, because he was on the technical side where t

was ci. the oporational sido and used to this chair of commad

thina and the inlationship hytumon the Divisior. and Station

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 29

1AM 2071!

10001

TOP SECRET

26

Chlots in the flaid, to a greater extent thanipr. Gottllebwoul.

The last thing I am doing is impugning his voracity and

his testimony.

Mr. Baron. Whan you say it is not the way wa do busirers.

5 i you meant to say it was your understanding in general Agency

6

practice that the Chief of Station In a situation like this

would be expected to chack back with Headquartars?

8

Mr. Twoody, Whan a Chief of Station was given the authority

to carry out

something entirely on his own initiative, that

was nado quite clear -- I'm not talking about this caso, l mean

gonutally -- this was mado quits clear.

Mr, Baro,. When you were talking about the lact that

"this was not the way that we generelly did business," you wer-

i: not raforring to the fact that you would have made it ahsolut.!

explicit ir. any conversation with Stally Cottllabyor anybody

liko him who was urdertaking a sangitive mission that the chie

of station would be axpected to chack back?

Mr. Twoody. If I had not mentionad this to fiday dost ule

and he said I did not,

I ann perfectly prepared to believe hir.

it would be because it rever occurred to me that the chio! o:

Station would act ir any othar wav. That is it.

Mr. Dawson: of course, Mr. Hedgeman also tustified tret

it never would have occured to him to have carried this out

without having checked back, ar! he did so, of coursa: the

cahles illl show that verv clearly, What we are trying to terui

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 30

Aruso (AuRo 702) 36

!.

TOP SECRET

27

1

2

on 18 oxactly what MI. Gottliabiconvoyed to Mr. Hedgeman,

which, of course, you could not tastify to.

Mr. Tweady. I could not.

MI, Baron. Or what you said to him.

5

Mr. Twoody, I think it la quite possiblo that I did not

7

say to Mr: Gottliab, S1d} for Heaven'a sate, do not have the

¡ Chiaf of Station go off assassinating this collow without

8

rafarting back to Headquartars. It would novar have occurred

9

I tn me to do that. It would have bean, in my view, superfluous.

10

Mr. Dawson. You ars, of courso, aware that Mr, illadranar.

1j was aware of this practico in the Agency?

1::

Mi. Twoody. Cartainly.

Mr. Dawson. You had Been that happen. He had only hear:

14

Station Chiet for a short time; In spita of that, ho was still

'aware of Agency practice?

16.

Mr. Tweedy. I think that it would be perfectly true

1:

say that any clandestiny sarvices officar who had reached a

certain seriorit; in fiold axperience whethor ho was Chis. se

Station or not, he' would have sucked this in with his mother's

milk. Ne

ware,

if I may say so,

i very disciplined ornanizat:?

in that rosard.

'sI. Dawsou.

Specifically as to Mr. Hadgeman, that woul!

apply to him also?

;.:

Mr. Tweedy.

it would

indeed.

Mr. Baror.

Let us proceed thon to a document we will mir!.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

more | Arde 2021384

... .... to 200n+

TOP SECRET"

2A

Exhibit 3, which 1s a cable from Bronson Tready to the Chief

of station for hia ayes only on Septambar 22, 1960.

(The document referrer

to was marked TheodY

Exhibit No. 3 for

Identification:)

7

====-========

====

?.:

:.:

.:.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

| Arra

• TOP SECRET

29

1

Mr. Twoody, Thia la mostly discussion of si

Mr. Baron.

The man you rafariad to was at this time an

agant that was in contact with the Chiet of station?

Mr. Toody. I remanher him vary wall. I could not possibly

ramanbar hla name. I romambor him vary wolli I met him later.

Mr. Baron. lle provad to ba a highly affoctiva arant for

the Station?

Mr. Taody, llo was a vory good intallinance agent, an

o excellent Intalligance agent, for the simplo reason that ha

1 was able to make contact with groups and madla In the congo

which was vory difficult for non-Africans to reach. lle was, for

:: a year or two, a first-class intelliterco source basically:

.:not an action source, but er intellinance source.

::.

Mr. Baron, When you roac the sentence that is at the

:: beginning of paragraph is on the first page where it says:

i' "concur this possibility worth watchina, but if decided support.

"for formor objectivos.

Believe eggential such be provided

through third natioral channel with PBPPI:E role completelv

concaaled."

What

are you referring to there?

M1, Tweedy, I am not gure: 1 do not ramanber. 1 do vict

Iccall what the incoming cable gaid.

hut ! am obviously sayinn is serotrotta hai, ! ouess.

at least had beer..

employee,

I think what I was saying is, if it wanted to use

TOP SECRET

"..

---

## Page 33

sian 7071:

TOP SECRETA

30

?.

04

Schotoste directly in an assessination attempt, that I would

not dismisg it out of hand.

Mr. Baron, You would ba concerned about Its socurity?

Mr. Twaady, Absolutely.

5

6

Mr. Baron. You then would say the phrare "YOPROP objoc-

tives" would rafar to an assassination attempt?

MI. Theody, Yas.

8

9

Ms, Baron. That the assassination, discussion of an

assassination attempt, was being restrictod to the YOPROP

channal?

1:

11r. Tweady, Yas.

::

Mr. Baron. On the last pago of this document --

!.:

Mr. Tweedy. The only thing that worrles me about this

:: conclusion of mino is this, the more I read 1t, 2-B 18 another

paragraph, which may not have had anything to do with schotrole

, at all and I do not fool, at least. I cannot recollect, why

any leaks would almost cortainly have includer the likench!

1s Bahotsorte, were Involved in this. Thus, I am iriglined to

feel I am talking about. someborly alse and not lichotrorte:

Mr, Baro:. I will represent in yn in other cable traffic.

I beliave, which we will revisw as we proceed here, there was

jiscussion of the use of ano.....

Mr. Tweady, This was probahly tho case.

I do not think

this refors to achotroute

B here I do not think rafyrs to

nichotrouch.

221179

I cannot recall --

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 34

1000. 30

152711112162

TOP SECRET

31

1

to

an

Mr. Baron. Who?

vopRop obtactlvas would atill rates to axploring posalbllstles

assassination attempt?

Mr. Twoady.

Yus.

5

Мт. Вагоп.

6 i diffurent agent?

This may refor to exploring it with a

MI. Twoody.

Yos.

Mr. Baron. On the last pago, paragraph 3, 1t talls the

9 Chiar of Station: "Not intended you construe above comments

1.. ¡ as basically nogativo, You and colleaque understand ta cannot

::' road ovar your shouldor as you plan and daress opportunities.

:: Our primary colcarn must he corcealment PROuTIF role unless

:: outstanding opportunity emerges which nakes calculated rial.

:: first class bet. Roady antertain any serious proposals you

:: make based our high regard both your profassional judaments."

What are you refarring to in that paragraph? lhat message

..aro you corvaying to the Chiaf of Station?

Mr. Tweady, Wall, I think if you road the cable you will

i notice that we have found difficulty with a nunher of his

: proposals. These were

axoloratorvpronosals. Iwant.ed--

Ar. Baron. For carryina off an assassination mission?

Mr. Twoedy. You keap coming off with

an assassination

missio: as if this was always just around thy corner. What I

am saying is, we are In a period hers

quite commus. ir our

business of very intensive operational plarning and axploratior..

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 35

00P-TEE L0г

1000d aUto. dea 10.00.0100.018

TOP SECRET

37

1

2

5

6

7

8

9

1:

'"'

All sorte of things varo coming up from the flold. I had

commentad on it heral in the and, I say, do not be discourageil

bacauso you do not see the probable channal wa will usa. I

assumo the colloaquo was Sid cottliob, because I guess ho was

st1l1 there.

Mr. Baron. The flist time ho had not arrivad, but you had

alroady cabled that his arrival was imminent?

Mr. Tweady, I assume that that 1s the colloaqua. I do

not think ho would havo talked to anybody oldo on it. That 1s

all 1t moans.

It is, if you like, a rochnique of managament.

Mr. Baron. Moving on to a documert that wa will mark

i:. Exhibit Exhiblt the noxt cable, is from Allen W. Dulles of Saptember

1i 24, 1960 and

your proudonym is also listed as one of the senders

of the cablo to the Chiaf of Station.

17

(The document referred

to was marked Tweedy

• Fixhibit No. 4 for

idartification.

2:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 36

TOP SECRET

33

1

Mr. Baron. In this cable, in the firnt paragraph, lt says:

2.

I wa tian give avary possibla support in eliminating Lumumba

•¡from any possibility resuming governmental position or 18 he falle

: "In Loop" -- meaning leopoldvilla -- "sattina himall In Stanley-

iville or alsowhere"

6

Firat, for the record, any time your pseudonym "Jadwin" or

7

"your name "Twoady" appears in the uppor la!thand corner of a

cable or your signatura appears on the botton, you dispatched!

i that cablo?

Is that not riaht?

I am reforrina gunorally to the cablo traffic.

i:

Mr. Tweady.

What. it maans

1e thia. it could mean severel

:: thinos, hut I personally dictated the cahle and dispatched it

:: without further referance, or for some roason I constructed er.

. Cablo and had it released by a higher authority, althor ur.

i " Bissall or Mr. Dullos. Although thoss wore not the only alter-

i natives, It my name was on It, I was connected wieh it in ond

::: form or another.

I would quess that I dictated the cable and that r. Dulles ..

and I do not have any idea how this cany about -- Mr. Dulles

wartert to

soe it, and Mr. Missall sungusty! that it no our

from Mr. Dulles and mygelf, I lust do not tow, . ihat this

mears is, Dallas and Tweedly were totally aware of the cable.

115. Har01.

"eturnine than

to the suntenca I citert

fron

the cable where you did Dulles were talkin about divino dier:

possible support i: eliminati in lumumba, what messare

=-

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

TOP SECRET

34

1

Mr. Twoody. "Eliminating Lumumba from any possibility

resuming governmental position." This, 11 I may say no, ravarta

to the original instruction from Mr. Dullas which was that the

U.S. position was that. Mr. Lumumba must ha removed from a

5 i poaltion of authority in the Congo and that ausanaination vas

*I not by any means the only way by which thin might be accomplished.

7

Thia, I think, merely reiteratos that it is not a -bolng

YOPROP cablo doos not rofor specifically to assassination.

Mr. Baron. Would thia cable, in usina the phrase "elimina-

1.7

ting Lumumbe" In this contaxt contemplate assaasination as

at laast ons of tha possibla means that minht be lisad?

Mr. Twaarly. I am afraid if I may say so you are puttina

words in my mouth. This is axactly what it says. He has two

massagas now from Mr. Dulles.

The first one, I thirk, was

:: "perfactly cloat. Sirce then he has had massanes from 11r.

Dullus' subordinates lits myself. This meraly makes it clear

again that leadquartors wishas to "give avery possible support

1n elimiratiny Lumumba from any possibility resumira governmon*.:

:. positio.."

and I canrot say more than thet, and I think to say

that this strasses assessi..ation would be quite untrue. But tha

Chief of Stetion in leopoliville was alrsady under instruction:

to be consilering this

as ois of the possibilitias.

•Ir, Buron: Assassircion?

I15. Iweely. This dous nut chands that.

Mr. Maro.. I think that is fine.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 38

(Aros 207) 340

44441.0.1

TOP SECRETE

35

The interasting aspect of that sentence for me lo the

2

rast of the sontence where it makes it clear that not only la

thare a concern about Lumumba baina able to resume hia position

4

1n Loopoldvilla, but anywhere also, and It would soom that

5

assassination would at loast have to be one of very law means

6

7

"that could insure that fact that Lumumbe would not resune a

position of power anywhere.

&

Mr. Twendy. I do not think i can comment any furthar.

Mr. Baror, Lat us introduco as Exhibit 5 a cable

1.

dispatchod from the Chiaf of Station on Sentember 27th, 19609

for your ayes only, and this cablo honia with a rolorance to

PE. Gottliab:

It says ho was contacted 26 Septanbur, "Is on same wave

:: lougth." Ther. it continues, "Hunce balluva most rapid actor.

1:..

consistent with security indicated."

The next paragranh says, "Rasis ? talks considering

!: possibilitias:" - - thurs follows a list of possihilitles from

A to G and paragraph 3 on th: hottom of page? says, "Plar.

proceed ou basis prioritiss as listad ahovo, unlasa instrurted

to coitrar:."

¡The document refariar.

to was marked Twoody

Frhihit No.s for

Identification. 1

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 39

TOP SECRET

36

1

2

Mr. Baron. Dons that indicate to you that on the list of

prioritias, priority A would have boon considered by the chiet

of station to bo his top priority?

Mr. Twoady. Can you road, by the way, paragraph 2:

5

2 talka considering posalbllities" of diapatching fichotronto

6

" to stanlayvillo and taking rafuge -- that would be refuge, woul

7.l it not?

MI. Tready, -- "and have him tako refugo with Bla

1i

Brother' --

Mr. Baron. -- "Would thus act as innido man to brush un

datails to razor adga. Also would provide info

o on coord and

13 | agricultural problem. Guthman recalling Schotsobig to room."

14

When Dr. Gottllebjlooked at this cable, ho testiflad that

11

this cable indicated that he arrived in the Congo on the 26th

of September. He had two talks with the Chlat of Station where

1'7

"they discussed various operational possibilities of gottira rir!

of Lumumba.

The lettar A raprasanted their too priority plai:.

would you agree with thet interpretation of the cable?

Mr. Tweedy, I would think so.

Mr. Baror. Hould you --

M5. Twoady, When he says: "Plan procodd on basis prior.

¡tias as listed abovo" this arain is not what he was moing

do at the corclusion of this without further reforence cair.

out ar assasgiation. He bays, what wa see lofichotrotg"...

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 40

Mon

(A8 2021)

13.

TOP SECRET

37

bost animar to our problam.

2

Mr. Baron. Doas ho not indicato in this cable though

i that he would procead to implement these plans unloss he ware

i : Instructed to the contrary? In other worde, this very cable

5

'might constitute his roquast for a conflrmation.

6

MI. Twaady, I disagroo. I think those varlous possibili-

7 i tlos st111 nood further exploration le what he was suggestint

8

to lloadquarters. ho concentrate on that. le the bast possible use

9; of schottortagon this including further operational Intelligence

1:

on the situation which might Inad to an aureement that we woul

:: use this man, and thar all these othars, but it does not.ir. an'

:: sense, as far

ag

I an concerned, lt 19 unt 1u diy sense the

17 Chiat of Station, saying, if A looks torribly nood I shall just

i: go ahead and finish the job without further rafarence. Not at

1: all.

MI. Baron. I do not undurstand how you can read the phras:

!" "unloss instructed to the contrary" in that way.

Mr. Twandy. Becauge there are other possibilities here.

I am sorIy, hut I am afraid looking at it fiftoon years later -.

In the subject that you are aidaned in, I thirt you would look.

at it entirely differantly than I would, worring on a dar-to-di:

mattor with the Chief of Station. There is absolutely nothin

ir. this cable which says that they have the answer to

Inchotrolla's us-

0V

"Ir. Baron.

Does paragrapt. A Indicato tha: Schoerefle wor:)::

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

• 1Алm

TOPISECRET

38

1

take rafuge With Blg Brother, moaning move Into Lumumba!

?.

entourage?

-

..

Mr: Twoody, I think probably this would be -- I am trylry

4

" to think how this was.

6

06

Was this possibly (asingal?

MI. Baron. I do not know the oparational dataila:

7

= =

Mr. Twoody, He did havo some access to lumumba'& entour-

8

ago, which was the rasson we were so interested.

9

Mr. Baron. Would you assume that this cable 1s suggestina

11:

that Echotrotto) he recalled to Leonoldville so that he might

11 move disto umumba'&' entourage?

1:

Mr. Twoady. Absolutely.

1:

Mr. Baron. Where it says ho would thus dot as Inside me:.

14' to brush up details to razor edge," would you assume that refais

:: to exploring the means by which Lumumba might be poisoned?

ilI. Twoody, I think that is quite a possibility. I cairo:

1: specifically say yus. I suspoct ho was our best potantial source

for operational intellinence, if you like, on this.

Than hy says "Also would provide info on

food and aaricni-

sural problems." I have a vague recollection at this poin tre

he was ranorting rather importantly on aspects of food and.

agriculture which was a major political factor within the Co:.'?

ther.

I cannot put it any more clearly than that.

Ithink it is that this woul? he a byproduct of this. thi

we would at mor. good renorting on the subiect.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 42

202) 344-400

1

2

5

6

7

•ARIS ANI

TOP SECRET

39

Mo. Baron. You would read that sentanco literally instead

of an oblique rafarance to gotting access to Lumumba's food by

which he night be poisoned?

Mr. Thoody. I would road 1t much moro literally than that.

Mr. Baron. Let us turn then to Exhiblt 6, which 18 a

cable from the Chiaf of Station on Saptamber 30ch to Jadwin,

which is yourself --

(The document rafarrad

to was marked Tweady

Exhibit No. § for

identification. )

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

і Ало

TOP SECRET

40

1

Mr. Baron.

-- In which the Chief of Station says: "No

raally airtight of possible with assats now avallable. Must.

chooso betwoon cancolling op or accopting calculated risks

of varying dagraos."

5

Schotrolla best asset avallablo. Vow necessity act

immadiately, 1f at all, urge lleadquarters authorize axplorator:

conversations to determine 1e chotrollo u1111na take solo as

active agent or cut-out thie op."

9

First, would you road the santance or the phraso "viow

nacassity

act immodiatoly, 1f at all' to refer to the fact

that at this point bottlion had informed the chias of stattor.

:: that the lethal material was of a limiter lifo?

15. Twoedy, I cannot Indlly commont on that. That is

certainly à perfoctly reasonably explanation, for that ramark,

but as I do not know exactly whore lumunbe sat on that partlour

lar moment when this cabla was sant, it might have somathina

:: to do with his

availahility or somat.hire else, I just do not.

клок.

Certeinly your first point is a possible.

It aquali:

maios cleer: of course, that al thou echoeroßfeha bari us:

in an oberational intelligence sunport role, he at this noirt

her never heol; cut in on plans. Of course, thie! of Station

tid not kion whether he would he willira

*e no d'our with th:i

iT. Harus:.

The Chluf of Statio,: here in considerina ci.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

...!

HW

1

?

5

6

7

8

9

16

;:

STOP SECRET

04

approach to schoolly firet on e hypothetical baBie --

Mr. Twaody. Yes.

Mr. Baron. It Is clour here, is it. not, that lichotrolfo.

1s baing viowad as a potential assassination assat?

MI. Meady, Indead.

MI. Baron. Lat us introduco as Exhibit 7 a cablo on 30

Saptambar 1960 signad by Glan Flalds to the Chief of Station,

agals in the POPROP channal.

(The document rafariod

to was marked Tweady

Exhihlt No. 7 for

Idents" ication. 1

===cez"...

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 45

Purs (1106 702) 340

TOP SECRET

42

MI. Baron. Presumably, lt is sesponding to the cablo that

2.

wa just looked at, and In this cable, Glen Fielda says, "You

are authorized have explotatory talke with chocsortal to

assass his attitude toward possible active agent or cut-out

5

rola."

6

Hould you assume that Glon Flelds consulted you before

sanding this authorlzation to tho Chlaf of Station?

Mr. Tweedy, Not necassarily. I might have boon out of

town that day. As you will notico, all he says 1a, "You aro

authori%al have exploratory talka":and "Agree with you initial

1:! discuasions should ho on hypothetical banda." And, of

course, at that point, we would expact a raport from the field

!:: Or how it want.

He was taking it one stop further. He minht

i: not have cleared that with me if I ware away. He miaht also

have parhaps cleared it with Mr. Bissall.

Mr. Baron. As your deputy, it would have beon perfectly

!::proper in your ayes for Glen Flolds to have isqued this cable

without consulting you?

'Ir. Tweedy, Cartainly. It is quite possiblo, too, that

he ever told ar. vissall what he iras plannino to do.

I cai:not

tell you specifically, This is all that this cable authorizes.

I find it antir=ly within his dol rated rasporsibilitias.

Mr. Maron, Would it have hem: standard procedure

for

Glen Piolds, in your absence, to montion to richard Bissoll the

fact that such authorization to he sant to the chinf of statio.:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

TOP SECRET

43

on an axcoptional and sensitivo mission I1ka this ona?

2

MI. Toody, Hould you say that agaln?

Mr. Baron. Would it have boon standard procedure for

'Flalds to chack with Bissall in your absence bafore he sent such

5

¡ a cablo?

6

MI. Tweady, No. Flald's understanding of his authoritles

" and his relationships with the DOP on auch matters were axactl!

• the same as mine. No would hava soon ayo to ayo with him.

If I had sant the cablo, undoubtadly I would have lat

Mr. Bissall know that. I was plannind to carry this thing that

much closyr. The reason for that is that wa were nottina clos.

::.to informina a third party thet this was 1r the windl. therator...

:bafore we actually took this stop, I think somuching like

this, a third party bain senotsoeta.

tape 2a ::

Mr. Baron. As Exhiblt ß, we will introduco a cable on

i October 7th, 1960, fron the Chirt of Statin to Jadwir, which

is yourself.

(The document roferro.?

to was marked Tweydy

Fixhibit No. & for

intentification.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 47

(AUx 207)

..M.M1.4!

TOP SECRET

1

2

44

Mr. Baron.

This cablo bagine with a relarenco to sidney)

Gottllaby and he:: "Departad Leop for PBPRIMe sjoctober, vlow

expiration dato his matorials. However, inft cortain items of

continuing uséfulness. Guthman plans continue

try implament

op."

Do you have any independant recollection of receiving

7

this cablo?

8

Mr, Twoody, You know, It's terribly hard when you sae

9

somathing that clearly occurred, and to mo I road, It's

torribly hard at this stago to say, of courso 1 conember. It all

roads porfoctly familiar to me now.. To say quite specifically

:: I racall rocoivin the cable will perhaps 1o a little heyond

my memory.

Mr. Baron. Based upon having road this cable at that

time, which you assume you did, is that corruct?

Mr. Twoody, Ahsolutely.

MI. Baron. You would have known tra.

Eitney cottlleb hail

luft the Congo on October 5th and that the Chief of Station

plarned to cortinue to try to implement the operation.

MI. Twoady, Which moans that he would continue his

axplorator: operational work to sue if ha could com to son-

solutior.

115, Berol. You woul! road that santarce still to abul:

to ai exploratory phase, a ihase

in whirh the Chief of statir:

was explorina the feasibility of assassirating tumumba as

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 48

"TOP SECRET

45

1

?

opposed to moving to implamanting?

MI. Tunady, Absolutely. Under no circumstances anything

lalse.

Mr. Dawson. BaBod upon this Exhibit and the previous one

then, Mr. Toady, la it your opinion that in this case no agent

6 ¡ vas avor askod to assassinato Lunumba?

Mr. Tweady, Yes, Irdead. That also colncides with my

* bust rocolloction which is not all that damn good. It is

→ paractly obulous that icto ollas never requested to

assassinata Lumumba, and I havo

no recollaction of anybody

:. having boon asked to do this.

Mr. Dawson.

Whather the discussion was hypothetical, as

:.outlirar in the provious axhibit.

Mr. Tweedy, Yes.

04

Me. Davaon, Why do it onious that foreto?

askad to assassinate Lumumba in light of the sentenco in this

cable that roads, "Although did not pick up ball," -- raferrin:

to the fact that cholerse)

did not nocessarily pick up thr

ball on assassinating Lumumba in his conversation with the Chi

of Station, the Chief of Station nevertheless

believed "he

prepared take any role nocesser! within limits security arco.

plish objective."

04

pots that not indicate that (Schotroßvalwas at least :1..

a 8

somedle tho nas prenared

to undortake an agsasgination .:..

if he should he tasked

with

it?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 49

manna (All 102):

anoise 11s 10001

"TOP SECRET

?.

6

8

i :

46

Mr. Twoody. I did not say ho vas not. This at that time

04

Is the Chief of Station's bast assessmant of what the schotrolle

roaction would bo it the thing was formally put to him so

bluntly that ha understood antiraly what lt was all about. I

do not recall, I do not bellava any of this rasidual traffic

Indioatas that. it aver got so far that no did that, and I thirk.

my own ballot la it 18 a S0-S0 proposition on whather ichotrolla!

would agras to do 1t. I think probably in "limits socurity

accompliah objoctiva" 1s probably the controlling factor. I

cannot coally incall anymore.

Ir. Dawson. Off thy record.

(Discussion off the rocordi.)

Мг. Вагоп.

Back on the record.

This report on October 7th by the Chief of Station rufars

::back to the oxploratory conversations that he mentioned he

Mr. Tweedy. Implied to by Fields.

MI. Baron. -- authorized by fields in the previous cali.

of the 30th.

'It. Thaerly. Kicht.

Ar. baron.

As Exhibit 9, we will introduce a cable giant.

by is, twearly to the chint of Station in the ronnor channgl.

IThe document referred

to was marked Tweary

Exhihi+ 11o.? for

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 50

pana ( Aos 202) 386400

MANDA PAUL

HW

2

5

6

15

16

47

identifiaation::....

=-==

...===.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 51

LAB 7071

HW

TOP SECRET

18

2.

MI, Baron. It bagins, "Had good discussion your collangua

¡ October, Comments follow,"

"A. Bo 'assured did not expect YOPROP Objectivos

be roached in short parlod and understand currant situation

fully warranted roturn your colloague."

6

And then it continues to discuss the lact that you were

considering dispatching a third country national operator and

le sandor case officer from the CIA who would "run thie op and

9

¿outside agent full time undar your diraction."

10.

Dons this cable rafar to the fact that you debriefed

Sidney Gottliab?

Mr. Twoody. I am sure it doas. That Is what it must he.

i: yes.

14

Mr. Baron. The first paragraph is meant to indicate that

It i the Chief of Station should not fuel that Headquarters would

i' be disappointed in the fact that he did not pull off an

i assessination mission in such a short period of timo?

"".

Mr. Tweedy.

I want to ba careful to how I roply to that.

'All l was saying to a very profassional collaaque was that we

had no illusions about the fact that the plannina operation

of this would be vory difficult, at bast, and would take tim.

and thoroughly agree with the fact that prososets, immediate

prospects, were such that there was no alternative for siahey

Coottlion to raturi. That is all I was sayina.

But to say what. I was trving to exurugs to him was the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

• vou.

HH

TOP SECRET

1

49

fact that wa note not overly disappointed that Lumumba vas not.

assassinated at this point la just not the lovel of Intercourso

that I had with a very profassional Chièt of Station. That is

all.

Mr. Baron. Doas not the paragraph A hero indicato that

7

9

the objective of the mlasion that was discussed 1n the YOPROP

channel was to assassinate Lumumba in vian or in light of the

lact that (Göttllabyhad gono to the congo with materialo that

Hore only golna to ba lethal for a short pariod of tlma?

MI. Twoody. That is what It says.

1:

Мт. Вагоп.

In other words, what I am trying to explore

:: with you is your characterization of thie entiro stago of the

1: ¡ operation as one of planning and exploration when we know that

!:Cottliab;took materiala to the condo which would only do lothol

1:¡for a short pariod of time and presumably was prepared to move

Io l Exon axploration to implomentation?

Mr. Twoody. If, as a result of the station focusing or

:. the problem for the first time, as a rygult of Haadquarters

!: request, they had come up with a plan that they thought was

:

axceedinaly solid and which Headquartors aproved, it is not

surprisina, perhaps, that we wanted the maturials thare to tai:

advantago of such, if you lilo, an unlikely avant. But this

would not chante the normal sellenes of svents, which would is:

that the Station would axplors, keen Headquartars informer!.

:: "loadquarters woul! commont, it would than be a cresendo of

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 53

none (Ar da 207) 344

TOP SECRET

50

1

agraament or no agreement at all ranulting from either a final

2

request for approval or sithar approval or no approval. This

would not have changed.

Mt. Baron.: Because Gottilob" took lethal materials to

the congo with him that had such a short perlod of lathallty,

6

7

9

ware you not contemplating at that time that the oparation

might woll movo from tha exploration phaso to the implementation

phase just as 800n as Gottilebjand lledgeman determined that 1t

was foasiblo?

MI. Twoody, I think I would put it quite diffarently.

1:

#I think that I would say that we would have been remias in rot

1:: being in a positior, to axploit, 1f wa reached the point where

1: "we all agroad that the thing was posalblo.

1÷

If they had merely gone ovar and said we thirk wa can to

I: Hit, by why do you not sand the stuff from leadquarters, that

:==

15.

would have been sort of nonsense, if you follow mo.

;: 1

Mr. Baron. You would have expected the Chief of

Station to cable back for confirmatior, but 1ª was cartainl;

within your contemplatior. at the time that when gottliab wert

:.

to the corgo, when the Chiaf of Station rabled for confirma-

i..

tion, you woull probably give him à no ahea:! to assassinat.

:::

Lumumbe?

Mi, Tweedy. I did not say that at all.

Ar. BarO!..

If the operation were foasible?

1r. Tweedy. I did not. say that at all. It would not hav

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 54

• 11002

TOP SECRET

51

baan my say-so.

I do not know what the polloy lovels of my

"Agancy, who in turn would have been raflected in the polloy

• lovels of the government, would have dons if it had como to the

: polut wharo somebody said, wa can do 1t, do you want us to do

5 ' it.

6

Mr. Baron. You would have raferred that to Bissell?

Mr. Twoody. Yas.

Мг. Вaron..

le would have rofarrad it?

Mr. Tweady, He would have rafariad it accordina to hia

lights.

That was not my businogs.

He was his own laval of

authority. He was as aware of his authority as

I was at my

:. leVal. I only assume that this would havy boon discussed at

i: the highost loval, certairly at the Agency.

I assume

that tra

i: decision would have had to hava bean

marla by Allar. Dulles and

:: who olse he wished to consult in Washington.

Thase are pure assumptions on my part..

lindar no circum-

:.stancus would I have given

the go aheal.

Mr. Dawson. That is inturesting.

Mr. Baron.

I just have

one more question on this lire.

1 realize we are goinn very closely over

this ground, it woul!

not be doing it if it weren't important in trying to not you to

clarify for the record exactly what shade of maaning you wait

to attach here.

would it do fair to say that when you dispatcher fort lie

to the corno you expected to hear back -.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 55

... 01.0.01

HIH

TOR SECRET

1964974

57.

2

5

6

7

9

MI. Traady, I expected this rould ronult in a dialoque

batrean the station and oursalvos as to uhat might be feasible.

Mr. Baron. You ware hoping?

Mr. Tready, Gottliab assisting the Chlat of Station In

his axplorations.

Mr. Baron. In vlaw of the antira polloy of the lgancy at

that time, as indicatad in the cables of Dullas and the cables

from yoursalf and Bissall to the congo, you were hopina that

Cottilebjand the Chief of Station would find a loasible means

of carrying out an acsassination mission and than inform you o!

l that.

1:

Mr. Tweedy, I am not golna to comment on the hope. I lo

I not know what my frame of mind was on that.

The purpose of the axarcise was to soe whether this was

i:, I possible. One thing was clear, that I was the Instrument of

polley in carrying out the exploration which was entiraly a

profassional matter.

If the exploration had reached a poirt

Whore wy felt that we could submit to higher authority a plan

which we thought made some sense, at that point hisher authorit:

would have to take the ball aur run with it and lot us know

what thay concludyd.

Mr. Baron. By higher authority hard, you mean any

authority higher than yourself?

Mr. Twaedy, It would start with me in my chair of comman.!.

I would not be concerned with the Mational security Alvisor

i:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

707

TOP SECRET

•1,i

53

to the President of ariybody also, I was perfactly cloar in my

2

mind bacause of what had occurred and the way that these matters

had bean broached to the fleld by Mr. Dulles, that the thing

Iwas in the natlonal arona and

was just not in the Agoncy's

arana.

What Mr. Dullas would have done and what he talt his

7

authoritios were from higher authority I cannot tell you.

Mr. Dawson. That would have been a matter that would have

bean batwean Mr. Bissall and Mr. Dulles, in that correct?

Mr. Twoody, In the first instanco, it would have boon

batwaan MI. Dulles and the outgido world, the Exacutivo.

Mr. Dawso::. The chain of command would have haan, you

!:: would have talkerl to

Bissell, you would

not have bean axpactu'

l' or would have asked what Mr. Dulles' viaw word?

Mr. Tweedy, Mind you, we were also an Anency that was

::' very floxible.

l am not saying r. Dulles might not have

talker

i: to me about this, that was bacause Mr. Biggell was not

innediately available, or

somethin of this kind!.

What I

saying

is

ut the working lovel, the oparatiger:

level, the Divisional and the section level, we hall come un

with a plan which made profensional sanse to us which we felt

sound shallnh g0

that we would present it to our mastars, e

woull have done go and the resultant

instruction to the fil'

would have davenled on their taaction as far as i was concere

within the Anancy.

As far as lo. Dulles was concorned, l car:.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 57

7071346-400

HH

TOP SECRET

54

1

tall you.

In othar words, the dogres to which he thought he would

have to rofor further to Washington on, I have no ided.

Hi. Baron. It was your job to find a feasible way to carry

out an assasgination: It was the job of Missall and thoss above

6

?

I him to docide whether to go ahead, as far as you were concerned?

MI. Tready. As far as I was concarned, that lo the way 1:

"sterted.

Mr. Dawson. You hava no indopandent or specific recollac-

I, leson that you over went to Mr. Dissell anl raid, wa do not hers

"a shot at this, or we do, and wa could do it this way, aid tin

saylin out thing or another? You have no recollection dither

:. 'way?

Mr. Tweady. Mr. Bissell Inad the samo traffic I did.

Ir. Dawson. I did not know that.

Mr. Tweady. He read these cables. Wher I say he read

evory single one of them word for word -- all I can say is hy

had full access to these cahlas and anythirt he had not rea! o:

:.. had any reason to bslisve he hall not read, l rould have ten li

sorotally briefad o: the progress of the plaming, "laturall:.

he would have been interester.

i:: detail.

He would not hare follower i!

i1r. Dawson. Would Mr. Dulles have har any accees to ther:

cableg?

Mr. Tweedy.

"lot routinely. I think he would have exper'=!

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 58

404

TOP SECRET

55

MI. Bissell to keep him orally informed on a thing liko this.

2

la did not want any more paper tloating around in those days.

I Mr. Dullas was in evan anothar building. Now, we were all dow:

at the Raflacting Pool at that point, waro wa not, and Mr.

5

¡Dullas was on E Stroat, It donsn't make any differance. The

o li number of papara on this YOPRos thing would have boon castrictor

?

¡ to the absolute minimum. I do not think Mr. Dullas would have

expodtad to bo bothared with the operational detaila. Mat ha

would have expocted from Mr. Biasell was progress on plansinn

the alimination of Lumumha by whatover meana.

Mr. Dawson. Was the routine way that that Information

::would have boon given to Mr. Dulles - for lustanco, what i'm

:: thinking was, were there staff meetings at which you attorder!

:: With MI. Bissoll in Mr. Dulles' prasa.co concerniny what was

::happering generally on a routine quartarly or weekly basis?

Mr. Tweady. MI. Bissall would have seen Mr. Dulles by airl

:: large svery day.

Mr. Dawso,. They would not revlew mattings or a woukly or

routire basis?

1I. Ticedy, lle had his own staff moting aver! mortar.

1r. Julles did. These were attonded by his Deputy Directors, di

which ir. Bissell was on:.

I used! to see Mr. Biss=ll -- he had a staff meatina once

a week which all chiafs of vivision attended. Mothina like

this would he discussed!

at thore. I had my owi private most i:r::

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

MORe (AU9a 207) 3A4

Mustin

t. spare

29M

TOP SECRET

56

with him on these matters whanaver lt seemed nacessary by one

?.

or the other of us.

Mr. Baron. Raturnina to the cablo of october 7th, 1960,

which you sant to the Chief of Station, the rafarance to a

5

sanlor case officar who might ba dispatched to the Congo, 1s that

6

a rafaranco to tha fact that Bissall was considering dispatchina

7

Justin O'Donnall?

Mr. Twoody. No other candidate, no other. I assume that

9

1s who 1t is.

]

MI. Baron. O'Donnall's account

that he was asked by

!: B1asa1l to go to the congo to carry off the assassination of

:: Lumumba would fit hare?

Mr. Tweedy, Sure.

Mr. Baron. The third country national retarrod to in this

i:: cable and in other cables as someone you are considorina

dispatching to the congo to help with the operation, would that

'De OJWIN

or WIROGUR?

MI. Tweady. As I told you before, dufiritely not wdrocuir..

Iresumably this other follow, whose identity and what ha was is

very, very unclear to me.

03

4r. Haros. The arent that was ru. hy larold Silvall

MI. Tweedy. Yes. This would have beer the mail that

wou!!!

have worked with Justin D'Donnell if it harl all haguered.

:1I. Baron, That was QJWIN. I will raprasant to you that

i: QJWIN was the arent who was supervisad by Justin O'nonnell.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 60

TOP SECRET

57

Mr. Twoody. We road that that time, which is my only

2.

rocollection of it. That 18 the person I am sure.

MI. Baron. Let me corract mysell hora.

I will ruprasant to you that QJWIN was the agant that war

5

6

rocruitod by arnold silvar and sent by Elvag)to the Congo tor

use by O'Donnell and parhaps by the Chiaf of Station.

Is that consistant with your recollection?

MI. Twooly. No, It is not consistent with my recollactior.

9

It lo cartainly consistent with what I read the last time I saw

you, which i have no raason to dianute. I just cannot remember

::' the blighter at all.

Mr. Baron.

As

Exhibit 10, let us introduco a cable or

!: October 15th, 1960, which

is not.

sont in the Yoprop channel.

:: It is marked RIBATENEF

'LAT in tho space where sunsitivity

:: Indicators are usually placod.

. i

(The document referred

to was marked Tweedy

Exhibit to. In for

identification.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 61

аті мош

-no:

line cou

TOP SECRET

THOUS

58

1

Mr. Baron. Thia cable roquests the vlows of the chief of

?.

Station on suggastions A, 8 and C for varlous covert operations.

02

In paragraph C, thare 18 a rafarence to baroak.

MI. Troody, wa have raceivad the rapresentation from the

5

¡CIn that that was a cryptonym used to refer to bumumba.

Is that consistant with your interaptation of the cable?

MI. Baron. It is indeed.

Mr. Twoady. This paragraph C says in part: "Only direct

action wo can now stand bahind 18 to support immobolizing or

02

arrostlig

Wronk, desirable as more definitivo action night ne.

:: "Ray action takon would have to be entirely conzolesa."

Now, you signed this cahle, hut it way 1.ot sent in the

Bpocial sensitluity channel that dealt with rottllab's mission

to the Corgd!

:::

Beforé we discuss this cable, let us also introduce

irto

the record as Exhibit 11 another cable which you slaned or.

October 15, 1950 which was sent in the ferror channel to the

Chiaf of Station.

(The document re'erter ti

was marked Twoely Exhibi:

lo. ll for inertaticerio:..!

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 62

(Алка 207) 344-400

HH

TOP SECRET

59

1

MI. Baron. This contains the following languago: *You

2

3

will note from cable through normal channel currently being

transmittod" than it continues "on YOPROP suggestione.

You

will probably racelve more along these linos as stumbling

02

bloc jud

ROAK raprosants Increasingly apparent all studylng

6

Congo situation closaly and his disposition spontaneously

7

becomes number one considaration."

8

MI. Twoody, I think by that, I think it 1s parloctly rod-

9

awful English.

10

Mr. Baron.

The cabla continues --

i:

Mr. Toady. Obviously that means that everyone one talte

1: to sald there is no solution to the corgo as long

as Lumumba

!!' "stays in a position of power or influence there.

That is whet

1: i that moans.

Mr. Baron. The cable continues: "Raise above so you not

ir " confusod by any apparent duplication. This channel remains

for specific purpose

you discussad with collaague and also

:. ranains highest priority. "

Now, dous this pair of cables indicate that at this point

: despite the indicatio: in the first cable that wa looked at tha

i::

"direct action would be limitad to entirely Congolese action"

the actual positio: of yoursalf and others at Headquarters

:.

devolved ir. this oneration:

WaS

that axploration

of an aggassire-

tion missior. romained

the highust priority for the Chief of

!! Station?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 63

пропа ( Алка 207) 344

HH

TOPISECRETI

60

2

4

5

6

8

9

10

Mr. Toody. I think thet 18 accurate.

He had come to the and of the road, at least-temporarily

on the YOPROP espect and for the time boing ue were in no

position to approva anything but: what vas discussed in the

02

JAP cable. Nonatholass, as long as the threat to the Congo

from Lumumba axiated, there remained e high priority to search

for means to taka care of the YOPROP planning aspacte.

Mr. Baron. When the cable refors to the specific purpose

you discussad uith colleague --

Mr. Theody, This 1o assasaination with cotEllabi 1 an

sure.

1:

MI. Baron. It than says: Thia purpose remains hiphast

1'' i priority. Hould that not indicate to the chiat of Station

14

that he should proceed to find a way that Lumumba could bo

assadsinated?

!!!

Mr. Twoody. What this would mean to the chlat of Station

!:;was that ha should rotaii exploration of possible norns of

assassinating Lumumba as highest priority, He should continue

!: to sook Means to do this, not to do it.

Mr. Baror. Again, you are maintaining you have just marle

yoursolf clear, as far as you wars concarnad, you were still

asking him to explord and

not implement at this polut?

::

als& but.

"r. Baron. Who would! have had access to or received

distribution of the first cably we lookol at which travelled i::

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 64

:.

410 r.r0: 311741, 58-1069-0009, DC.2000)

HH

TOP SECRET

2

02

the SPLAT channel?

61

2

Mr. Tready, It would have baon restricted, but not as

rostrictod as the othar.

Mr. Baron. Would somebody at the Embasay concalvably

6

have bean cut in on cabla traffia in the channal that doalt with

I LAT operations?

7

Mr. Tweody, Could be, cartalnly.

8

Mr.. Baron. In other vorda; the purpose of sending a

second cable on the same day which dealt with action against

Lumumba was what?

10

11

Mr. Twoody. The simple reason I think -- I say I think.

1:

bacauso I cannot tell you so -- as I said a law minutes ago,

obviously you'd come tamporarily to the and of the line on

14

15

SOPROP. Modures takon to shore up field lO, poaltion in the

Congo, Mabutu! would have served to support the general objective,

of containing Lumumba by whataver means. It is all part of the

16

i same purposo.

1:

Once again referring to the original cable from Me. Dullas

which said all means, in affect, an! I think the reason I'm

putting this ir the open channel, the open channal 1s still --

MI. Baror. Simply the ordinary channol unad between

i :

yoursalf --

MI. Tweedy, Still a restricted channol. RIBAT is a

i..

:.:

rostricted thing, ir any event. This could have been discussed!

with the Ambassador or the embassy, if any aspoct of it seemed!

2:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 65

Mana (Area 707) 344

inn. 06. 20001

HIH

TOR SECRE

62

1

2

3

appropriate by the Chlat of station.

ME. Daron. By contrast, the XOPROP cable would only havo

baan sean by the Chiaf of Station?

MI. Twaady, Tha Embasay would not hava baen shown this

5

6

cable anyway, Na do not show the traffla to the Embasay, na

discussod it.

7

8

Mr. Baron. It would have bean props for the lef

PLAT cable

to ba convayed in some manner?

9

MI. Tweedy. To be discussed.

10

MI. Baron. Batwoon the Chief of Station and parhapa tha

i:

Ambassador?

1::

1÷

14

MI. Twoody, Discussed, only orally.

Nr. Baron. By contrast, the jopRor cable clearly would

havo boen restrictad to the Chinf of Station?

15

16

MI. Twoedy. I have no reason to balleve that the YÖPROP

business was discussed with the Ambassador, I do not

ballave 1t was, although Mr. Dulles, in his original cable, sai!

in i ho could, if hu wanted to.

19

MI. Baron. Let us introduce as the firal exhibit for

:: ¿ the moment Exhibit 12, a cable of Detober 17, 1960 goina to

:: " Jadwin from the Chiaf of Statior.

In this cable, the Chief of Station is responding to vour

suggestion that a sunior coas officar might be dispatched to

the congo to haudly the Poprop operation. He says it 19 an

25 yexcollent idea. Is that a fair interpretation?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 66

TOP SECRET.

63

Мr.. tready.

YeS.

5

(The document raferred

to was marked Tweady

Exhiblt No. 12 for

1dentification. )

1';

-====

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 67

TOP SECRET

64

Mr. Baron. The Chlaf of Station then makes a suggestion

2

In the fourth paragraph for equipment that might bo provided if

such a case officar vero to bo sent. He saya, "If caso officar

sant, racommand Headquarters pouch soonest high powered forelan

5

make rifle with telescopic sight and allencer. Hunting good

6

here when lights right. However as huntina rifles now forbidden.

¡would keap rifle in office pending opening of hunting season. "

Would you take that to ba a racommendation by the chief

¡of Station, If a case officar was sent to the congo to concen-

1'

I erste on the YOPROp operatios:, he should be provided with the

i kind of weapon that would he suited for a sulper shot at

:: Lumumba?

Mr. Twoody. Yus. Not necessarily to be fired by the

li caso officer, obvioualy not, but at least used in the operatio.:.

Mr. Baron. This reference to the huntina season can be

ir.

taken as a raference obliquely to the fact that Lumumba was ir

: Un custody and that thate would not bo, in affoct, "open

seasor." Or him until hu shower his face outside of lIN custo!!.

would that be a fair intorpretation?

Mr. Tweady, I would not have interproted it quito the

same way, I would have interpiated it this way, which was i!

it, as a result of llaadquartars suggestion that a rifle by

provided to the station, the station would coms up with an

:: operational plan involving the use of the rifle which Headqua::.

: would approve, and that thus, in offact., the oparation was o::

TOP SECRET

HW

---

## Page 68

TOP SECRET

65

hom lAm 7071

FAU

tapo 2b::

1

by a rifle, that would do the opening of the hunting season.

2

In othar words, the point where they know how it could be user

and loadquarters had approved its usa.

6

Mr. Baron. I have one othar genaral question bafore wa

taka a broak, and that do, returning to sidney rottilabl

il account of his conversation with Richard Bissall about makina

proparations for carrying off an assassination againgt an

¡Merican forelon loader le 1t voro required, Gottlieb suld in

9

that context that he had higher authority for such an oparation.

1.

Sottilab, alad said that ho cloarly interprated Blasell to meat.

:: that Rissell had Presidontial authority for such an operation?

Did you have any knowledga of such a conversation between

GotElleb and Binsell from any source?

Mr. Tweady. I do not rocall that dottiled and i ever

i: discussed higher authority and approval. I do not say that i:

i: did not occur. It Goetllah said that he had this imprassion

I' in talking to Bissell, I cannot say no, but I cannot comment

on it further.

'Ir, Baror. For the moment, we have no further questior:

did we will take a break now and pick up ancin hefore the full

: .

Committoo and Exocutive Session. this aftarroon.

Thank you very much for your patience

i: going throuch trait

:.

documents ond by one. It has beer:

extremely helpful to us.

(Whereupor, at 1:10 p.m. the hoeriro concludled.)

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 69

DCI

• 330!

Misusiiia

SEGRET

tape

1125010?

CUP

7L30?

"SHONITY

Oiril

C:12518

¿ust!

55.4175

FOR JODIRI GUTIALLY FROM ASCHAM

!. IN HIGH QUARTERS HERE II IS THE CLEAN-CUT COMCLUSION "HA:

I'LLL CONTINUES TO HOLD MICH OFFICE, THE LEVITABLE HESULT H

AT DEST HE CALUS NiTO AT HORST PAVE THE MAY FU COMMUNIT TARRUTI

OT THE CUNGU ¡ITH DISASTROUS CONSEQUENCRS FOR CLE PRESTIG: i is:

CONSIQUENTLY VI CONCLUDI THUT YUS RIZOYAL MUST BE AY UNCRITI

AND PABLI OBJICIIVE AND THAT UNDIZ ILISTING CONDITIONS TUS

SOULD DE A MiCH PAUNTY Vi OUA COVERIACTIGi.

OPPON UNITE ME PUTSINE TIESIL'ES TO TOU AND ENDOITION TU

4 7. Г. Д Г. Т

n95791

---

## Page 70

Trat.en

pardali

WTaa:7.5175

DIR

£2286

47507

¡2 TO A TOTAL OS 7IC0, 100 NO CARRY OUT AMY CRAÑI PROGANME CIi

PO TO CON TU MUN

"CUR CASH MIIDS.

3. TO TÃS ICTINI IHÀT AHUASSADOR MiŸ DIDÃI TO JI CONSULIED.

:0Ù SHOULO GIST HiS CONCURRINGO, LE IY ANY PAXTICULAS CASE HE

DES XOT WISH TO DI CONSULTID TOU CAY ACI ON YOUM OUN AUTHUNITY

CIRI TÜNE IOIS HOT PAZIUT IITERIAL MELI.

¿VELODALIO.

END OY MISTIGE

• ÷975!

CALI SECREIARLAT: LANT DISTINUTION SU

13. HILAS.

GiN

Л ІЦ

¡PRODIXTON RY OTNER TRAN INE SIUINO CATICE IS PROMICITO.

verica.

insin

HH

---

## Page 71

15

CONS,

-O .

19 September 1960

• LEOFOLDVILLE

A, CIPECTOR

sini

DDP.. SIC 2

-StAff t9I 19.4

DEFERRIS

ROUTINE

Tralias

PRIOSITY

OPEBATIOIIAL

INUICIATE

=(PRITT)LEOP

CITE CIR

01'.

01:.

EYES ONLY GUTHMAN FROM JADWIN

RYBAT YOTRUP

1. IDEN PHOCEEDING BRAZZAVILLE SHORTLŸ AND SHOULD ARRIVE

APPROX 27 SEPT. HE WILL MAKE HIS WAY LEOP SOONEST THEREAETER :

CALL YOU NICEFICE ON ARRIVA!. WILL ANNOUNCE HIMSALE AS "SIU LI

PARIS". BRIEF COVER DISCUSSION WILL THEN DE NEED LA KHICH SIN"

SUGGESTS MEETING YOU AT OFFICE AND YOUG!LL M ESPOND LE TREEING

AND SETTING THE TIME. LOWEVER THE ACTUAL MEETING AIL. TATE PLAI

ONE HOUR EARLIER THAN TIME MENTIONED IN THIS CONYEPSATION AND iN

FRONT MAIN ENTRANCE NEW STANLEY HOTEL. "SID" WILL CARRY UNROLLI

COPY UF "PARIS MAICH"' IN LEFT HAND.

L. IT URGENT YOU SHUULU SEE LEN SOONEST FOSSIBLE AFTER HE

PHONES YOU. HE HILL FULLY IDENTIFY HIMSELE IND EXPLAIN HLS A

MENT TO YOU. HOH'EVER HIS ETA NOT FIRM AND YOU SHOUID NOT BE

CONCERNED BY SOME DELAY.

IMO

COGIOIMATINO OIIICEIS

SECREI

AUTMINTIGATINO MARICEI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER IMAN IME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEC.

---

## Page 72

RECTOR

DEfERRED

ROUTINE

PRIONITY

maliass

OFIIATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

he tire rear:

c::: ::2

PAGE IWO

3. ACKNONLEDGE ABOVE SOONIST, WITH ANY REVISIONS YOU

WISH MAKE IN ABOVE PROCEDURES. CONTINUE USE YOPROP INDICATOR

ILL. TRAFFIC THIS OP, WHICH YOU INSTRUCTED HOLD ENTIRELY TO

YOURSELF.

END OF MESSAGE

C/AF

AVIMIMTIGATIMO OPPIGLO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAM THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

191.2:9941.

Cop:.

---

## Page 73

Tweedy

1. • C/AF

509

2445

19 September 1960

LEOPOLDVILLE

u, DIRECTOR

ijAF

.

DDD, S/c 2

19'09

ROU:INE

PRIOBITY

OPERATIENAL

EDIATE

7144.

Retrait

CHEDIR

31114

TN51165

01:

(PRITY) LEOP

INO

RYBAT POPROP

RE DIA 11J44 OUT 01443)

IDEN SIDNEY BRAUN.

END OF MESSAGE

DD/P

DEISABIMO

ct!

COOCOIMATI OPOL

SECRET

ARAUIDITEN

HH

---

## Page 74

CLAS

22 Jejizabor 1962

LIUPOLDYILLI

ЗІСПІТ

GIE POTING

i.

:.

11e. 51:2

mis;

C08"59:41

(PRITY) LEOP

LIPS OMLY GUIMLIAN

Cite Die

aT 71d??

0307

RI LEOP 00ZS iN 18789)

• I VER? WELCOME, COLLIENTS ECHiÕ"

ANS LA, CONCUR MANHUN US STOREONE OR COLLETT

OFÈTEL, MÜSS MCMALY UNWITTING FOR TIME BEING AL-YOUGH!

i:

YOU WILL BE ASSESSING ICE MORE ACITYI ROLE. MNTHOUGHEEDENELEA

HAS APPARENILY HAINIAINED SPLENDID COVER, MUST MEMENTER !!!

ESCAMINATION HIS BAGXGROUND WILL REVEAL HE LUISICENT-ALLETO

TRUE, ONE LEG ONES BASSPORT AND WINE L

2. ZäiR. CONCÜR IN POSSISILITY HOLIN WATCHING BUT IS

DECLOID SUPPORI TOA FOPROP OBJECTVES, BELLEVE ESSENTIAI. ""I

3E OROVIDID TINÜGN IMBO NATIONAL CHANIEL MITH USTILL ALI.

COMPISTILT CONCEALED: "AGITE TOU CONCUR OUR DENEY SUNNICTS

CURITI LITELY DS POOR AND LENSS WOULD MOGI CELIAINLY

28 1915

CLUDE!

163

ASINO

---

## Page 75

Find

Dater.

Si, DiaICioa

нал.

¡Quincy

Pirille

iMMiCIAiL

от 7:63:

1:40

PAGI THO

CITE DIR

C. HE ZU. TOU MUST HAUS MUCH BETTER PERSPECTIVE

LYD TILUS OUR COMMENTS ALONG LINES B LOVE.

?. HEZD. UNUIRSIAND STATION HiM MAD RIASCIS GUEGTI.':

JELL EER MYG RELILITY AND ME MUST INSUNS ENGINg

CONNECTIONS COMAIZITS AS AROVE.

E. HELL. FROM TRACES HERE ASSUME SUAJECT MAY A:!:"'!

ÁRE SUPPORTEA OF KISAYUDU. MOTI PREVIOUS CISCH COiNECTION-.

COMMENTS ALÃO AS ABOVE.

I. REL. ANTiTLiG YOUR FURTHER EXSLUNATION CAN CATTA

ERINTLT INTERESTEN ANT LOSSIDLI CHA SOLUTION. TILS SHOULI

PHOTIDE MAXIMUM CREDIBILITY.

LOST RISKI VENICLE INMI PURICIAS.

SEN' 24 1Y1S

C'A

DINO

006:

SACRIT

AU•NAMTICATIMO ORDI:,O

---

## Page 76

CHITIRED

losuine!

LU.

OMIA:IGNAL

IMMEOLAIE

TRITA,

mittis

wl jaji

INÜ LAGE THREE

Crit dia

•155592TT

OTTLE AS GENUINE THIRD HATIONAL JESEI IN GROUIN :1

"AUTIVER ROLE IS OP YOU MIGHI CONSIDER SOM. SOMENHAT CONCIS

TOUR RECHVI RIPORT HE MISUNDERSTOOD ON DISOSTIEN LISTRUC'!!!":

¡SIMONEN LOITATION, DUT DIS ARUREN INCORISING ACCES TO M

EXTEST. HE ARE CONSIDERENG A THURS MATIONA...

MENUT CORTET ANUASLE HERE WHO DUGHT FILL DILL AND WILL I''Y

HORILT.

3. NUT IVI LAIDID YOU CONSTRUE ANOTE COMMENTS iS DISICALI:

MIGHTITE. TOU AYD COLLEAGUE UNDERSIAND DE CAHNOT REND OVE!!

JOULDER LE YOU PLAY AND LESTES OPPORTITTIES. OUR PREMIRY CLiC

MUST JI CONCEILHENI POPLINE ROLE, WELLES OUTLINER UNTUi: i:

IMING" THIC: MULA CALCULATEN ELSE FIESY CHLIS SET. RILDY

INTIZIAIN ANY SERIOUS PROPOSALS TOU HAKE DASED OUI ING! AIG:

JOTH YOUL PROT ISIONAL INiTIATIVIO.

Eat tE pitatio, 1915

CEORGIMATINO

2

МіЛІ'

ADTRINIICADIIIO DEPICTI

seconnivindi

ПАЛіВ ТИАМТНЕ НСНШО ДООБРЕІС ЕВАВІТІУ.

HIH

---

## Page 77

C1

90!

2.8 Sepe.

570

CLASSH TED.MESSAGE

SICAST

TOUTINO

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPITATIONAL

Tarted i.

27.40

COlA LEUT

INIn

1.018 D18

T70573

0252!

02521

PROX ASCHAM AND JADWIN

RE: LEOP OOOZ (LN 17384)"

1. ANIRECLATE EXCELLENT REPORTING YOU REFERENTI

POGiRiE SUPORT DI ENTiATRO LUMUMMA PHOM ANY POSSIB!:!:

MISUMING GOVERNMENTAL POSITION OP I ME FAILS DE LEOP.

SÜTTLIG HIMSELF IN STANLEYVILLE OR ELSENHERE.

6. VALiÄ FULLY ANARE OF NEFARIOUS PLOTTLIC Giliii.

CUINEA, UAR. TO ASSTORE LUMUMBA, GREATLY DISTURBED AT

REFERENCE TO LICROCKO AND PARTICULAKLY TUNISLA AS MENAL!..

DO TING CLICUE, CAI TOU SUGGLOT ANY ACTION MA CAN PHOM.

DUACID OR TAKE OTHERWLSE TO HELP DETACH THEN FROM LUMUNI

Stle 2: 1915

=09

---

## Page 78

LECPCLIVILLE

CRECiCA

199522801

---1

ACHINE:

¡ritais

PAGE Z

ORIEAT'I)YAL

uu!:

IN$O

1. DISTURBIU AT PUSSIBILITY THAT!

MIGHT LOST

CONTROL OF IS FORCES DUE FOSSIBLE HIGHER PAY BEING UFFEREN

SOURCES HOSTILE TO US AS SUGGESTED PARA A YOUR REFERANGE.

IS PAY SITUATION LORDER AND CAN ANYTHING FUNTHER DE DONE

1801T MAS THIOUGH UN OR COVERTLY THAULIEN

1. AGHEE MÜTICH CUTLEED LAST GENTENCE HERRHENCE

MHICH HE ASSUME I FULLY ENDORSED BY AMBASSAULA.

5. AT YOUR DISCRETION, SHARE THIS MESSAGE WITH

AMBASSADOR.

FND CE MESSAGE

04

/SCOMMENT:

SeriouRort a reported or 23 Somember that irer..

Mutate, Gabriel Yiann.

and aninine Gizenga ol the PSd were mountarx

a coup againes dubuic and the Council of Cominasiune:s

MM

St 41 1915

CIA

SECRET

---

## Page 79

I ROM

PASEN *:25 1915

CIA

PRIORITY

IN 199E0

LEOP ÑE26

c.se

3.

LAU IM CONTACT 5 BALONS INO HE SAYS ANXIDUS

INuiriri FEF PROGRAM IF PROPER INSTRUMENTS AVAILAULE.

E. VECTOR GEORGES MASSIANGA RECENTLY TOLO OLACIO OFFI!LA

INCITAiMAY HE IN CONTACT SMALL GROUP CNA IROSPS HIIO HOULD

• A::1:1FATE IF RECEIVE FINANCIAL ENCOURAGEMENT, GUTIMAN WITRiCHENi

••A tale: iNi ARRANCO HAVE ODAGIO GEFICER INIRODUCE MASSIANCI

": i!.

. +=

'' DE CONMISSIONERS, BOLIKANGO AND CAPTAII. MACONI

"TEMIA IN CONTAGI BELGIAN, FRENCH OR OTHER GROUPS WILLiNO TRAI:

AND AIM 1LNS TROOPS LOCATED KITONA AREA, SAID HIS GROUP WANTS

MA:Ví. THEM LEON IN ABCUT 8 DAYS TO TRY TAKE OVER CITY. PLAN NOT

TERCIOLE AND LOUGT KASAVUBU AGREES. BUT MIGHT GET CAPTAIN

INVULVED REF OP.

G..

SLIGHT CHANCE WIBOTTLE MIGHT TRY THROUUM SUBULET

LEOP RODO (IN 18077 1):

30 PLAN PROCEEDON BASIS PRIORITIES AS LISTEO GOOVE, UNLEG

INSTRUCTED: TO, CONTRARY.

---

## Page 80

Araptrood

01/70

•par;e:

: =i3-

NOT FLAGIFLE,

155461

11d0ldd

-LED ANI.

Cilf

;. N052201100:

Se PL 1315

CIA

---

## Page 81

'AULUVILLE

Sept 27

REC'O CABLE SEEI.

PRIORITY

416 22 1975

CIA

•'== MY JAÜMiD AROM GUTHMAN

SPAT PROP

==:.

++ 014431009 714641

PORE DES CONTACTEO 26 SEPTEMEEP.

We ON GAVE WAVE LEWGil

SONiA ASHANO GOUT LEAVENING UNDER AFRO ARA NURSSURE ME. .

M: :CHE M057 PAP19 ACTION CONSISTENT WITH SECURITY INDICATEN.

PANGE MALES CONGIGERINS POSSIBILITIES.

i....

14

AND: ULTPAL PROELEM. GUTHMAN RECALLING E

CRIOTKUDTE 10 LEUP.

Ü. SUEJECT LEOP A98I (IN 16625

1 SAI0 HE PLANNED A011:

WITTINÖ DAYS. DATE PASSED AND NO ACTION BUT IF PRICE RIGHT MIGI!:

GET SHIN CA ROAD.

EMOTE CONCENE NO UNITING CUTERMAN POLITICAL

COITACT VISITED STATION 26. SEPTENEER:

EXPRESSED VIEW NEED TArE

IMMEDIATE ACTION.: SAID HAS NAMES EMAN SQUAD WHO WANT INTER THE

ACHIEVE POSITIVE SETTLEMENT..

NEED CUT-OUT SUCH AS RONTON. REALIZE PREFERAGLE USE THIRD NATICH

SECRETY

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ESUING OFFICE IS FROMBIEO.

5

---

## Page 82

•DIRECTOR

LEOPOLDVILLE

C/N 1DR HOTEL, NE DIY RiOTIFICO 1940 30 SEP)

DDP..s/c2.

Sep 30 1g-401-

MEL'U LiOLE SEri.

CPERATIONAL IMEDIN'E

IN 22857

DIR

NiO

c.1t

EYES CHLY JADWIN FROM GUTHMAN

RYBAT POPROP

REF: DIR 23094 (OUT 71837)

Sir 22, 1985

CIA

1. NO REALLY AIRTIGHT OP POSSIBLE WITH ASSETS NUN AVAILi

MUS: CHOOSE BETWEEN CANCELINO OP OR ACCEPTING CALCULATEO R151S

CE JANYING DEGREES.

04

2. DE PIRA I RET: WE BELIEVE SCHGÕEGREES: ASSLI

APRILALLE. HEN NECESSITY ACT IMMEDIATELY, IT AT ALL, URGE DES

AU:HURILE LXPLORATORY CONVERSATICHS TO DETERMING IF EUROSUADE

•WILLING TAXE ROLE AS ACTIVE AGENT OR CUT-OUT THIS OP. (WINLU

ADDOCACH CI HYPOTHETICAL BASIS. AND NOT REVEAL PLANS). IF ME

APPEARS WILLINE ACCEPT ROLE, WE BELIEVE IT MEGESSARY REVEAL

GEJECTIVE OP TO HIM IN ORDER DATAIN FULL VALUE MIS POTENTIAL.

ALTACUGH TOO EARLY SEE SOECIFIC DETAILS BEMOUROTTO PART IN UP,

BELIEVE RISA MINIMIZED IF HE:LEAVES AREA BEFORE EFFECTS OR ADE

APPARENT.

'.

3.. FEAR MIGHT HAVE OVERSTATED POSSIBILITY

PARTICIPATIC, BELIEVE ME UNSUITED ROLE AT PRESENT TIME, VIEN

POSSIBILITY MAY ALSO BE REPORTINO TO HERENENTO S

SECRET

HH

---

## Page 83

Ü -DIRECTOR

LEOPOLOVILLE

C/N (C9 METTE, NE DIY NOTIFICO 1940 30 SEP)

00P.. g/02.

SE 30-40

KEL'ULiaLE SEri.

CPERATIONAL IMEDINIE

IN 28851

LEOP SOJ.:

DIR

EYES CHLY JADWIN FROM GUTHMAN

Sir 22. 1915

RYBAT YOPROP

REF: DIR 23894 (OUT 71837)

CIA

1. NO REALLY AIRTIGHT OP POSSIBLE WITH ASSEIS NOW AVAILi

L

MUST CHOOSE BETWEEN CANCELINO OP OR ACCEPTIME CALCULATEO RISKS

CE VAHTING DEGREES.

2. PE PARA I REF: WE BELIEVE.

ULST ASSLI

ANAILALE, DIEW NECESSITY ACT IMMEDIATELY, IF AT ALL, URGE TiSS

AN¡HORIZE EMPLORATORY CONVERSATIONS TO CETERMIN IF

•HILLING TAXE ROLE AS ACTIVE AGENT OR CUT-OUT THIS OP. (WOLO

ADDOCACH CH HYPOTHETICAL BASIS, AND NOT REVEAL PLANS), IF ME

APPEARS WILLI:XE ACCEPT ROLE, WE EELIEVE IT NEFESSARI REVEAL

CEJECTIVE OP TO HIM IN ORDER OUTAIN FULL VALUE HIS POTENTIAL.

ALTHOUGH TOO EARLY SEE SPECIFIC SETAILS

BELIEVE RISK MINIMIZED IF HE LEAVES AREA BEFORE EFFECTS OP ARE

APPARENT.

3.. FLAN MIGHT HAVE UVERSTATED POSSIBILITY QUOTTLE

PARTICIPATIC. BELIEVE ME UNSUITED ROLE AT: PRESENT TIME, VIEN

POSSIBILITY MAY ALSO BE REPORTING TO

SECRET

HW

---

## Page 84

PAGE 2 lii.

OPERATIONAL IMMLOLAI

A1:!

IN+O

CiTI

4. NEW POSSIBILITY EXISTS VIEW Z9 SEPTEMBER QUIMMAN

BLISLE I TALKS. ALTHOUGH W

LISLE 1 PREVIOUSLY FAVORED SUOJ!I.T

REF OP, NOW BELIEVES HISSANGOLAN GROUP HOULU BE SUPPRESSED 11I

CONGO ANU REPLACED BY GUINEAN SUPPORTED GROUP IF SUBJECT EVER

REGAINS ASCENUANCY, EXPRESSED VIEW NEED TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTIC!.

¡HEREICKE PACOCÜL EXPLORES.

ISLE I THINKING SORENEST DO SEE INS

FAR ME WILLING GO AND CETERMINE HIS ASSETS. ASSIMING

•CETIR MIGITIVE, DOES HOS CONSIVER HIM DE TRUE MIRO CUIRI

DETECHNE FROM COUNT VIEW SECURITY DE OP? MECCA

ISLE I REACTI:'

FAiCRABLE, BELIEVE THIS OFFERS MEAMS ACHIEVE DUJECTIVE GIRLY IT

PAR WITH ECHONORE IN SO FAR AS ACCESS AND SECURITY CONCERNE:

5. RE PARA IF REF: AS OF NOW DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH INFO

EVALUATE POTENTIAL OF CHA.

S. VIEW IMMINENTI

SCHOTEOFEE ANOT

irus, 21

QUEST HOS REPLY OPIM VIA EQUERRY LINK.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

## Page 85

SO SPENSER NIC

•LIOPOLDVILLE

SiRECiOr.

Cide el

CCP, FiC

¡"OUTiNE!

FURRIET

OPIRATIONAL

LAMEDIATE

11!

INIO

LEOP

"e!' 72, 1915

CIA

CITE DIF

озобо

CS COMENT:• URGED IS AUTHORIDE LIMOR::!

TALKS TO DETERMINE IF SCHOTROFFE WILLI!!:

ROLE AS ACTIVE AGENT OR CUT-OUT.

RE LICE iN? (1: 20857)

04.

1. ¡DU ARE GUTIRIZIO IVE EXPLORATORY TALKS WITH SCHOUSEGE TO ASSESS

HIS ATTITUDE ICHNO POSSIBLE ACTIVE AGEIST OR CUT-OUT ROLE. AGREL WITE YOU

INITIAL UIICUOCIGIO CICULO DE CL MYROTIETICAL BASIS.

2. " iCS iNK iN FROM HERE THAT OF POSSIDILITIES AVAILIN: EBRONOSA8I

LEST. ME CHILL HAVE SOME MORE AUCUT PEPRITE STAY TOGETIER WITH GUESTIO:

OF WIFE. HOVER HE WILL WEIDI VERY CAREFULLY YOUR INITIAL MISESSENT MIS

AFFITULE NO GLIL iS MY SPECIFIC APPROACIES TILAT BUY DEAGE. LE MOUD iNE DID.

ATEN LNIS STATIS GI SITUATIO WOULE ALLON FOR MODSPATE ILLSTE.

3 1:A DiSLiKE ACRE DETAILS WE ARE RELUETNIT CONSIDERE

LISLE CiTE.

TRAINT INS SEEN LOG TUE CONTACT LED IN HIS SPECIFIC FIELD HE IS 111

MOST RESPECTS dU AÑCIT DE LOULO STILL HAVE BASIC QUESTIONS IS TO COITROL A

SECURITY, DE DO SCALE YOU SINUED EXPLORE HIS AIS1IG WITH QUESTIGIS HERE

CEL LOLE TO TREET. IN YOU TEEL HE RUE LAONS CRETLISLE GS ASCINENT ''

NOVISE LITER NEXT TALEO VITH 1112I.

X. AFFRECIATE IS OUROFAZORNO TO PRONES

g-EG-il-E-T

AJTRINTICATINO OFFICE!

---

## Page 86

co)

OCT 60

DIFECTOR

Leorac..uu

C/AF

• 00/P. 3/C 2

CarE 0368'41

REC'O LADIESEST.

PRIORITY •

1N2412

PRITY DIR

EYES ONLY MADWIN FROM GUTINAN°

RYZAT FERRUP

PET: DIR 535855 (OUT 75700) '

decades

5 OCT, VIEW EXPIRATION DATE HIS MATERIALS. MUMMO WEI: TEP.::"

ITEMS OF CORTINUIDS USEFULNESS. GUTHAN PLANS DENGUE iRT:

INFLEMENT OP.

PEE. AFTER EXPLORING ALL POSSIBILITIES,

SiNGEST!"

SOLUTION RECOMMENDED BY MOS. ALTHOUGH DID MOT PICY UP CALL,

CELIEVE HE PREPARED TAKE ANY ROLE NECESSARY WITHIP LIMITS SEGIE::.

ACCCATLISH UBJECTIVE.

3. IF HES BELIEVES -

PAPRILE STAY OR LOCATIN.

WIFE PERKNIENT CAR HIS PARTICIPATICH, WISH STRESS NECESSITT

PEOVIDE STATION WITH QUALIFIED THIRD COUNTRY MATICAL. PECRUITTED:

SUCH ASSET LOCALLY NOT FEASIBLE VISH SECURITY PABILLA AD LIUITEU

ORMBER POTENTIAL ASSETS, ONLY OTHER POSSIBLE ASSET MERE IS

BOTTLE 1. GUTHRAN DOUBTS LE CADAFLE SUCH ASTION, MISC FEAR E

MIGHT REVEAL DETAILS I USURIED!

R

HH

---

## Page 87

10

SECREL

19241÷1

РАЗ! - 2-

1 .

PLEASE GUNIDE.

ENU CF MESSAGE

.. 5.07111:

P. EASE

ADVISE

•EYES ONE" ARMEARS TO BE IMPHOPER! Y US!O.

•LE FIELO TO COMPLY WITH RIGULATION SIÁD.

"DULTS POSSIBLE ACTIVE AGENT DI

SERREL

---

## Page 88

59.1

:++04105081960

• LIOPOLDTILLE

tiria:

THOM

::. 1975

1Xf 09108138

caponala!

AMICIAIE

(PRITT) LEOP

RYANT TOPROP

XILSUNLYGUIMMAN

XIITIXIX

11110

CIl1 DIR

1Tesõc

01?!

1. HAD COOD DISCUSSION TOUR COLLEAGUÏ? UCI. COMMENTS

FÜLLT WARANTTEU RETUEN YOUR COLLEAGUE.

3. UNDER PROSEIT CIRCUMSTANCE SCHOTTONRES OULD

CERTAINLI HOI BE LIDE WITTLIG BUI FUTURE CIACUSTAA

TRÄGET MILA LUNTADI THETTER TÕO TIST PiLSE TITS FOWIDJTI

ÁCIN TOR 0E MTEI DE DURE ALTIVE MOLI.

C. MLANHIULE NE CONSIDELING DISPATCHUNG MIUND MATH

UNIRATUR YHO, WHEN HE ARRIVES, SHOULD THEN UN iNSELILD 1Y

YOU OVIA PINIOD TO SEE WILETHRA ILE MIGHT FLAT ACTIVE UN

...IСE..

1 0

JECRET

UICR

AVINIMIICALINO OIII:AI

---

## Page 89

-ті:-

RECEIVED FROM

SP 9% 1915

...s.

"AGITHO

SUITOLE AND BEAZING IN MIND HEAVY EXTRA LOAD THIS PLACE

UN TOU, MOULD EXICT DISPAICH IDY SENIOR CASE OFFICEN HU

THIS CE AND OUTSIDE AGINT FULL TIDE UNDi POLA bLAZETOR.

IN ANT CASE THIRD NATIONAL WOULD NOT !! BITING PRIOR Dai"

LISANAL GES HOLE. MU MOVISE WAITNESS C 7105 4411

LUAHDA NEXEND. HARLY SUETCAT THIS TO ANT GANTA SINNI

LEAVE YOU CAN SCROUNGE. DO NOT T NT TILL YOU TOO TIED TO

ЗІЖЕТ: F2CНІT.

KAD OF MESSACE

AGIOAMIICGTIMO GIFICIE

A..:.E

LEPRCCUCTION IT OTMER IMAN INDIGUINO OSPICE IS SCMIGITO.

---

## Page 90

MESVICE

Pri

27o 3602

15 Peesbed 1941

• .::10:07

certures;

routinei

re-rein

E+8+11NA6

==**

98 46

LIOP

IMPO

05235

RTSAIRI

35 1. 1ICP Ü101 (DN 25201)

3. 1й02iiй (0N 23967)

I. LEOP 0072 (IN 23052)

TDULD APRICIATE TOUR VITE FOLLOWING:

WHEAT DOI

A. SUMMA TUN TRUE PANTUMAN GUANU DI GIULNÜ EXIRA SAY

PERHAPS 25-50 PERCEVI MORE THAN NOW DENG RECEIVED TO CORFI

SLUTABY SCHCOL GROUP CAN BE USED FOR THIS. ZAISE QUESTION WHETTi

LCIALIT IVISTED MEN COULD BI SO HELD FOR LONG. SUGGEST THIS

8?

3IT HUVOLEO DE GIYING FUNES TOE LAT A SOR MUL TO GIVE TU

DURAT DE PLATEST THIS TO USE LELAT A TO KEEPES SPINE STANT".

3. AMMUNITION: #HAT RESIAVIS AHMUNITION TO BE HELD UNDE

COOLAS DIONTAUL YOULD DE LIQUINED. LiSUME IU. UN HOUNES TOI

SALLEGANCATSCATICE. HE ROULD HEQUIRE INTO CALLONE ANI

122091410910

---

## Page 91

1325

nites

0800599091

!:'

loather dais

CITE DIR

IYUE HINDIS INVOLYED. POSSIULI METHODS DELYINY MiLE FOR

ETELEN PLUME TO FUSSORT FROM ADIACINT TELLITORI, UN ISL!

FROM NATADi BY PLANI OR TRUCK.

ALTIXNATIYI YOULD BEGIYE

MONEY TOUR-

HITS TO GIVE TOR

MLAT TECH HIM TO PUNCHE

014F..

WHOAK - IN HEY OUX DISTRUST SUBJECT AIT A EXPLORI

Megins.

BUYING OFT ETICHEURNSE

ROAK SPIRITUAL SUPPORT IGHT BE SEMOUS

BLOW TO HIM. ONLE DUICT ACTION WE CANNOT GENNS JENND IS IC

SUDUCET iNMOBILIZING OR ARLESTINGI

ALEAX, DESIRABLE AS MORE.

DETINITTYI ACTION SUGNT BI. ANY ACTION TAZI CULU RATE TUS:

INTRILY CONCULISE. HOWEVER, BINCULO TELCOME YOUR ViETS CA

OUR REVIIT ON ANY HAT THIS COULD MOSSIULI LE ACCCHULISILD.

DID OF MiSSACi

.: 8

rifician.

/i

---

## Page 92

TAY

51:

1511009T1440

Mineerings janus

(PITT)LION

11.10

4? 191

viTi

0525

-TES ONLY GUTHHAN

1. YOU JILLIOTITION CADLE TIROUGH NORMAL CHNINEL

LURRITAT DENO TALESHITTED A PARA ON PORNON TIRE SUGGESTICH

YOU NILL PROBAGLY MILIVE MORE ALONG THESE LINES AS STUMBII::

02

MAX MAPUEGTUTS INCHEASNGLY APOLKAUT AIL GTUDYIYG"

ONE CUNSIDEMATION. FOR EXAMPLE HE HAD SOME AFRICAN TALKS":

PALEVEN SERVIEST HIS WEET MAD DE CONGO THEY CANE UP MICH TILS

IMMULATELY. INO INDICATION AI ALL RENCH DERVIEREONG AND.. C

¡PECIFIC ASCUT IT.I

2. LAGE ROOYLSO TOU HUT CONFUSIN DY ANT APPARENT OUTI

MON. TIUS CHANNEL REMAINS YOU SPECIFIC MURIESE TOU DISCUE:

COLLEAGUEAND 4120 REMAINS HIGHEST PRIORITY BE DIN 013020 MO

LOUR RFACTION TO PCISIOLE DiRICTED ASSIGNAENT MANUR CASTINE.

... ..

SECRIT

HW

---

## Page 93

Melini

ii!.

cAl' 12. 1915

GiN

Arceite

.-i...aii.

CIE DIA

SOONESI TO CONCINTLILE EVIIRILY THIS ASPECT. ME SILL MORI:

ON THEO NATIONAL MENTIONID THAI RIS, DUI FUNDIN IMITHER Y. U

TIANX EMILY AILLIVÄL CASE OFFICER HOULD MAXE SINSE. SIENS '1I

YCPROF. ADVIS".

COMMANDO TIVE GROUP FOR ANDUCTIONE

ROAX, INTHIR VIA ASSiL: "

ON HOUSE UP CHUT IRON REVER OR, MORE PROBABLE, LSWIRUAX

ATTILPIS MADTILA BREAKOUI INTO TOWN AS RECENILT. PICKEU CIU

OS TIPLAT DONA TROOPS MIGHI ALSO DE CONSUÁRIO. REQUEST EUL:

END UE MESSAGE

Gred!

0a0.01.

---

## Page 94

• dIRECTOR

LESPOLOVILLE

C/A5

005, 5/02

1915

Ti7r

167 17 23

48'18

1ECU MADRE DElI

PRIOR!TY

111 25335

Cint

LEOP E14

DIR

FYLO ONLY LÖMIN FROASUTIMAN

RYBAT

Y2P.ROP

rt :

d tl 6942 (UT T8336)

O 650 (9 831•

IP, ARLE DEVOTE ENLY LIMITCO AMUNT THE, VIEW MULTIPLE COS

CONMITMENTS. SITUATION WILL BE EVEN MORE COMPLICATEO WHEN MIAl:

GCES ELIZ 13 ESTORER. IF GASE OFFICER AVAILABLE, GUTIMA iGLTi

DEVOTE 15 MUCH TIME AS POSSIELE TO ASSISTINO ANO DIRECTINO MIE

EFFOR:S.

3. EERINUSLY DOUST POSSIBILITY ASSAULT HOUSE, VIEN OTROS, .

CONCUR UP FEASIELE IF SUBIECT GOES OUT INTO TOR BUT ViEW LA !

WATCHING HOUSE, DOLET HE WILL TRY THIS. Di IGAN FUTURE. EILI:*:

POSSIELE TO MOUNT :CARIADO, PER REF B, EUT ASSUME NOS AUULR MANi

THIS QUE BY THIRO MATIONESESET:

4. IF CASE OFFICEi SENT, . RECHEND DIGO FOUCH SOSNEST MICH

SECRET

---

## Page 95

COEr 1900. 995490

Mir.

PAGE 2 AN :: 1915

CIA

PRIORITI

IN 2593;

LEUP DI':

into

CITE

POWERED FOREIGN MAKE PIFLE WITH TELESCOPIC SIGHT AND SILENCER

MUNTING GOOD HERE WIES LIGHTS RIGHT. MOREVER AS HUNTINO RIFLI

NON FORBIDDEN, WOULD KEEP RIFLE IN OFFICE PEROINE OPENINS OF

HUNTING SEASON.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMENT: •RFLESTED STA VIENS RE POSSIBILITY USE CORRIDO TYRE GROUT 1'I

ABOUTTION (SUES) .

SECRET.

joad: in.

---

