# 157-10014-10047

## Page 1

157-10014-10047)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JC Asgination System

429/BOX

Idenalication Fonn

Agency loformoion

ACENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY MLENUMBER:

SSCLA

157-10014-10047

HEARINGS

07-18-05

Docunion Indorotei

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

10:

DATET

05706/1970

PANGES:

80

SUBJECIS :

CASTRO: FIDEL

OPERATION MONGOOSE:

JMWAVE

elA

TRANSCKIPT

CLASSIECATION:

Unclassified

RESPRICHIONS

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LA SY REVIEW:

02/26/1998

DRENING CRITORIA:

COMMENS:

Bos 2

vit.

NW#:55510

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 2

XNAM 2OS

TOP SECRET

The Tues Cutes Boat: R3014

Report of Proceedinga

Hearing held before

UNVENTEAIIEO

m 415103

Sonato Select Cormleçee to Study Coveramantal

Operationa With Renpect to Intelligence Activitiva

6270

Thuraday, Hay 6, 1976

Fishington, D. C

(Scenotre Dipe and Wante Carded ovex

to the Comatoice for destrsetson)

WARD & PAUL

3017 WILSOM BOULEVAID:

ARLINGTON, VA 22301

: (703) 641-0900

TOP SECRET

1544010

---

## Page 3

SPLEENIS

2

3

JESTERONZ. ORE

Robort G. Halley

w-accompanied byr

John Rigall and

Seymour Ro bolteM

G

8

79071

WARD A FAUL

7 A

29

20

2X

22

23

28

TOP SECRET

133

---

## Page 4

C

WARO a RivE

6

10

1.8

15:

7 6

10

10

20

24

25

TOP BICRET

UXECOTIVE BESSION

Chuzadsy, Way, 6, 1976

United States Senste.:

Solode Connittee to Study Governnental:

Operationa with Asspect to

Intelligence notivities,

Washington, D. C

The Commetes

moe, pursuant to notico, at 2:40 o'clock

Dates. In Room G08,

the Carroll Arne. Notel, the

Honoruble

lichard S. Schweiter prentalay.

Present: Sonatos Soleiber (presiding)*

Also present: Jim Johnston and Paul Wallach, Professio

Biaff Menbers.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

0710

a 740) HD H0 W

Brid

Senator

Schwatkar,

guess v0 Walt brear you in, 20 it

JOli

will aband up and zaloo yous right hand, do you solomiy

seas the continony you aro about to give la che éruti, the

whole truth, and nothing. but

the trach, do helo you Goar

Nex Bazley.

Sanator Soline Sker*

Ba coacody

Me. Johnacon:

you beats for the recosd your fult

781002

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

on. 08 20005

HAWK

2

2. 4

26

18

20

2.2

24

23

TOMSECRET

ACCOMPANIED BY dOIlt RAGALL AND GEMOUN R. BOLTEN

Mr.. Johnstoo.

And * andoratand shat is an alias and your

pu prosersed by the Abodey-

That is correct.

Nt. Bolten, would you state your tula natu

ME: Bolton

Sevast Bolton, Seymour

R. Bolton.

Mr. Johnston.

And

John, the alias you are kentering

undie?

ME. Riyall,

John Rigall, But-gael.

Me. Johnston. And Me. Bolton and Mr. Rigal, would

stace yous casacity in chas

passion soudy?

Ar. Boston 1 on chief

of the forter Stact of the Clar

and

responsible for destings wiCh the Subato Soloct Committe:

Me, Rigati

Tan Special Asstetant to the opo, sictiny:

in hexe as an alcarnate monthor.

NE, Johnaton. And the diucanoion Chas has teken place

prive

to going on the cocond codiy basically has resulted

decision to hars Me: botten und Kex Migall atsone as ponatos

to. Tale session, an do you indorstand

Ak. Halley.

Yes, 1 do.

Chat, Her. Ralley?

wahnstom

ar. Malloy, What may y0kd copacity. wict

…..

Agency an Novenber, 19632

Me: Malley:

In Novenber, 1963, 1 was tre Chiot of Sta:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

6

9

11

22

24

16

1 B

20

21

28

24

25

N4 55510

of the ciA opetation that vas bared in Mand, Floride, cargesed

as 16s pelnarity responsibility for the Cuban operatio

Hs. Johnston, Mt. Nallach hos roninded no to penind you o

procodural.

matter which, you understand you have the richt

to counsel

Mc. Halley: • Tear I do.

Max Johnston And

you underatand

you have a right not to

anamer questions if you don't Wish to, or nos to answer questiude

you consult wich: Counsel, la that correct?

Ne. Halley. That 1s cotrect.

Ne, Johnston. And you are appearing here voluntarily

without coursel

Mr. Johnston, And goine back to duostantive questions,.

long did you konain do: Chief of Stattorit

What were the dabes of your servica?

Me: Mallor: Holt. t arrivod, of became involved Ji the

Cuban

Operations in the coxly 1962x and 1 atayod chero untia

approximaboly dune of 1465.

Senator Acliwether.

What month again in "622

2o. Malloy. Early "6ae 1 didnt save you the conco

Sonator, because i origipally cone down to Florida to conduct

i survay of this opecution to ana what possibilities coulu b

corried out in cors de the collection of litelligence.

Later filed a soport on fo, aná I was Laser assigned down er:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 8

5

6

11

19

it he

1b

10:

17

18

20

22:

22

24

25

NWM

TONSECRET

Senator Schwalkar, And thia van called anava, man it?.

x. Halloy. Thas ls the cryptonym that the Agency used

the Mean, station.

Senator: SChwelker*

And. to whon in that chain of command

at the CIA did you report

when you were the oparating head?

Mc. Balley, Thore vera different people de dittorent

tines.

When 1 fizat went so Mani, the task force commander wat

Me. William Marvey, He tepocted then to the bor, woo toportod

3o the Directos of Central Intelligenoe, At a Astor point le

the operation; Mr. Harvoy moved on to other tacks; and Mr.

Altagerld become the chial of that partioular undt, and thei

aftor. Me. Piezgeraid, Mr. Mare was the houd of that

particular wilt.

And betsoon Harvey and Fitzgerald, I think there Has d

chor porios of cine won d follow by the nome of proco when

was the acting chies of that particula unit, or the driet.

I move cargotton the exact arrangemens thore.

Senatar Schwesker. Sonotine during this period all 1:

change ¿ta title fron task Vocce l to 2he, do thas corruiz:

on not correct, us do I lavo Le mixed wa?

Fic. Helley. My recollection of that econoloes wes dis

st: was firet called sas and choa bocane lask force ka.ahd hi:

weane integraced back into vir picisios, wich was the Nest

dema sphere

DIVEStOR:

Senator Schwellor, Sas Preceded Dask Forde W7

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

2

•9

10

12

18

16

17

3) 9:

30

25

55

OUTSREE

Mc. Falley:

Yes*

mate oft che top of m head,

mat's

my recoLlection dE it

ME.x

Johaston,

other

way

around

Just for tho Fadote, I think he was the

Thak. Focco l war.

first and sps vas ancond.

Schwalker, Bus In aun and subscando your dubles

Wend:

basically

the sane, whether it uns. Task Force Wor gAs

undes natios and Piragerald, was

Ghat not 6:092

Me. Balley*

Well, I think you have to brock this portod

up into the phasos, arnator.

Too carly phase, 1962, was

docured an condag up wich an appealoud of what kind of an

In the contone which daisse

at thas conax lo other words, after the lay of Pays, Wiser Bag

post roacsos. had coco corduoted..

the Mpandetration: de the cri

decided chas they wanted to take anothor look at Cuba do ai

Incolgance and national sacualty brobtem.

dieselore, an

asses Stent was

ce: be made

1l the carly period oi bime as to

shat kind of no operation coalà be run in pursuit de 0.5.

polioy Obinctives; which was to doc IC Fidol: Castro's

guvantnant could be

renovad.

And

woon that aspossuent una

Conauotos as to what sind of intelligence doezationa contain

conductad, what Xina of parominicare on other operations cout

be isna that was an initial

phase.

and that phase was approve.

and put into ottock, but as Chas pporation was boing put fath

ottack the missile ordodo cano Cpon us, do what that was wo.

*natty carzida ta ica logical conclusioo becaupe the operacir.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

Aski

NW

5

8

1]

1:2

2.6

19

in, 5

19

20

22

20

24

25

TO SEALERT

thien

shatted.

Sonator Schwelker: After October of 1622

Mr; Valley, No, Delos co Octcber of 162, becauso: the

cuban ortois was in October of *62, bus the bulldup preceded

Its and our oporations which vazo: collecting Inbelligence in

Cuba dosoctod shis bolidup as Le war unfolding.. theretore,

the national priority became nor how do you take action againat

rides Castro, bus what is the nature of this soviet burleup.

And therefore the operation

changed

Then after the Cuban

mossle erisis of docobor of 1962,

she problem secare dnd be nonitoring the soviet disengagement

Eson Cuba, and khen there

WAS

another phase

aStor. whac when

tha Jovices wore out, Xustro was Coaxly recognized es the

aztablished power in Cubar and the probion became one: of

lookang at cuba in the context of was

chore sone ocher way tu

get a political change in Cube other than by military action

or by paramilitary accion. In other words, the onphoaie...

shieved so lcoking at the Caucco miJitary establishment: to

sed it i coup could be pulled Fron richin, to

see it econoni r

pronouros could be pur ow. the cagero coatre.

So the casking od chis particulas unit ala change, and

change of nuances ald degroes during anka period, But 10.221

professional sonse it was Excusod on sne Cubon targets.

in that sense you ate correce, has at did so through variou

changes us events changed.

TOP SECRET

435

---

## Page 11

TO STORET

10..

MeN 0C: 20000

9

10

11

12

13

15

2 8.

19

20

20

Senator Schwolkar

Cathet was the calaclonship of your

station and your assignent to Generai Lanadase? Mat raje

did he play?

Me. Malloy, Walt, in the carly days, in the curty period

of 1962, Gosszas tanadale was & monber of a group that was

looking as the baale problen of wiat could be done aguinst the

Cuban activity, Thia care up in one ot my previous conversatior

with Mr. Bazon

Senator Schwalker.

Are you talking about somothing ve

call Operation M0MG0000, are wa talking about Speclal Group

Augmontod, of what are ve talking abpat?

Me. 1az1ey. Moll, when I fiast cano into this activity

In 1952x the Principal peopleuchat scened to be Involvod wich:

i at thor tind were Robark Kannedy, General Lansdale, Dick:

loins, and Willlan Harvey, and the group of kennody, Lunsdal:

and Helms wore providing: 15 you will, tha guidance and tha

direction as to wherd: this thing should go in the early days.

Shortly after the operation une established and i was

In lidari, Lanadate scors to haro dodad out od

this parcacuty.

pictura, dia l was hol involved in the rashángton mencos ni

this, to 1 an add Clear as: &x exactly what was the Feason for

departure fron this particulax scene.

senator Schweiker. And was that i do you tonembor the

CryPtown, Oporatios Houdoostz

Ve, Halley, I've heerd the cryptonem Operation MONGOOST.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

NOR SECRETL

that didn't Impact on ny like ad that particular tine.

Schator Sohwolker.

Aid xight.

Mr.. Johnacon Moving to tho cine of the kennedy

assascination.

were you chier of atasion and in Mland

Whom

the

Presidone was

assassinated?

M Halley.

Yesr: I was the Chies of Station and i wis

In Miant:

Ma. Johnstone

You: were phystoally in Mians on Novenber

22nd,

10

:A0.

12

77

:13

₴ 1

23

24

25

Me. Malley, Yes, I WaS

12. Johnston,

Did

you raceive avy arders through fin

channels to concoct an invostionsion

In any fashion Jaco the

aazossinacion Of the President?

Ne-Mailey,

nolt, my cocollaction of that was that we

had requeste fox name tracas at

the ting tha: Oswald Wos

arrestes, and that dos our concricution to the investagaciod.

Me. Johnston Did vos receive any order in the fosm ei

* cable on any othor fashion to conduct an Investigation?

Pa. Handogs I don'& recals zacelling one, but.

10d

showed ne s coole,

I would have lo cornent on iti in ochor

words this was in 1967, This is 1918, and as you know Erom ay

rocurd, I've beon In an ails lut of kign volune projects

242

that

* Spack Cir. cable, you Know,

on a pasticular day, 1. moan, i

have been in Barlin,

aos, Vicknam. My life has boen sotayu;

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

7

8

* *

10

11

12

13

11 4

15

16

1: 2

20

tharotore 1 da not codait a apacitle cable, la you ve got

cable; L'a be glad to comment on it.

Me. fohnston.

Walke I don't have one, and I'm asking you

whocher one would oxfets

Nr. Malloye & don't cocati one,

Ma. Johnston.

And yous jadoment world be that there was

not

a cible exdoring an investigation.

No- Haliog, I can't say that. I can only soy that I

don*e cocall one, buc i do recali that at à latas point, oner

Oswald was dotaines by the polloe and there was sond inveubir.

gatavo material omanacing eron that, we participatod in

nana trace activity of shacoves vos sont to de ef chat timo

Cron Washinguan, bocause I do recola tlias at the Ciné that

cho name: braces were

conducted, Chaf

one. of the Cuban

Chat ve vece an touch wach at Ine, they die come up vieb i

tape Os & dobate which had taken place botwoon Oswald and war

member of the bre in New Ocloans;

and you know, chat sox. ef

sticks ta my mind as

an évent of shat passioutar cine.

And W

comronsod en de. and as 1 zacalir

Corwarded

the Capos to

Wishingsan.

Senhtor Schweikor. Mak was Brisgoles e ocoup, was fum

no20

24

25

Me. Halley.

that was the DNC, the Birdocion Rarolurii

Senators Schweiker, Wadn't Cartie Bringues m Mayed

i'm pronouneing le azonar involved in that, uné wasnti hia

TOP SECRET

0LTd:02426455

---

## Page 14

TOP SECRET

2

6

8

10

11.

ansociated nate you tolka as chas cane?

Mr. Hazley: Palz, I donte recall that spectrie nama,.

Senatory ar this timo,

Ke ald have a costionship

vich tho brr. ve alo deat

with e hamber of their toy

Leaders:

Ne, sohnsion loc me cone back lo chat labor.

Did you recoive any orders not to invoselgate an acco.

or nor to conduct an investigation of any kindx

Mr. Halloy. No. I donte recald

Locoiving any codb orderie

At

this

tine period, November

• 22nd,

boverbor i3xd, 1961, What was your capsbility in regard

conducting an hovestigation enoug: Cuban exiles, and with cobal

1%

It, Malloy, Woll in relacroachas do Cubons Living du

the Vnnued Gratas, I would way thas our capabillry was quate

good,

17

16

29

80

22:

201

24.

2.5

Now,

4à you are refercing to our capability do conduar

an Envoorsonion in Cuba, & would havo so bar ic was linatou

have to kios were spectarcally you aze rotocking to. in

aches Words,

if you're talking

in the ar4

hainston.

Mixoc. Dir Falling domestroadly of Cuban

exiles du the waitod States, and your ander to

Ex: Ma10. That 1e would have baon guita pood.

#c. dohnoson!

Second lp, wiCh

rogare: to coltectly

intelligence

us: to possible cuban involvonene

TOP SECRET

Locidi

---

## Page 15

2

3

9

20

12

4, 4.

16

17

2.0

OO.C: 20003.

82

#s, Haley Fron Cuba of in Cibar

Ne: Johnston. Ang ochu source.

Mer MalleX. Mall, IE you're talking about collecting.

infornation in cuba ii

Me Johnaconi. * 300g

Kr, Malley: 7t would than have to be focused apccifically

or different goographic aceae..

In other words,

BA

exanole, e you cold no 1 wint sono informacion on e spocitio

tows in the province of Minar del Rio, that probabiy was

vichin our capability at that time bocaudo va had a tacher

excensivo network in Pinas del Rio. lf you had sake to mer

pow know, in that somo timoreare on this day, I want you to

conduce a kind of an investigution in the provinco ol Camayuuz

I probably would hove had to say, you know, vetre not as well.

agutpped, ecause our coverage varied from province: lo provinis

Mr: Johnaton: Did jou have souedos : and I nean spocife

aviave station, did davve station control sources in Cuban

intolzigenco?

Re; Mallor I don's coonil that we had any state orfiose

Che: Guaan

intelligence dervice under out controle le mar

Have bour Involuod in soto double agene operazione at that El" "

tus corcadny we did hoc navo e staff officos penetration of

124

20

te. dohmston.

Did you evoi receive any iders to conta:

anacevar your contacte were in the Cuban incelligence, to

TOP SECRET

Doc a524

54151

---

## Page 16

TORTECRET

3

11

1 2:

C

1.4

15

16

1:0

20

# it wist Arrant. 5.C., Waving

24

Inquiro Abous tho disatatnation of Presidant Kennedyt:

Nr. Halloy. I don't recall rocelving any much Inatrecion.

Me. desosta Did that smas docut to you on your own?

Ax. Malley: Kell, I think as you probably ced fron 10ad

of the craftie, vo die come dp on bur oun wich campilage of

opinion. what was happoning In the Cuban community

We were

reporting that was cortho

out

od Cuba: in terms of information

brought by, you. lanove,

cetagees,

macariad

chat was being made

available through proyle corresponding and so forth, You. we

Were sonsicive

co thac

particular problen,

Johnstor.

Buc aid

10e affinheively go out and

seck the intosmacton fron: tources: in Cuba?

Mx, Malley, Nil, to the extone that this vas avalidsio

to is, you know, we had lots of agents. it you're asking me

Cnd we send sp Si acasage and tazk a spentfic ayent co

condoct an invostigation, vor ala we send them a cadio message

aI sonothing like that, & donty cacall one.

Mr: Johnstone: Why didat you do chat?

Nr: Malley. My recollection at this la that we fole

thac the nacure of our capability los so sinply cuspood to

What we: wace: ablo so obtain in bao: Miami areas and: Erom out

sources th a passive way.

because

chis was. an. Savestigahlon

chae was beine conducted ia the united Statos with cho prima,A

couponsibally wich agencies other chan diAr

42 .

¿ohnston. ¡ guess i don't quite underacard the dock!

TOP SECRET

NWIt

Воска:

132425455

---

## Page 17

Prions (Ky de 202)

TOP SECRETAR

...L

10

1X

3,2

14

1 5

16

245%

20

24

because the CaA did hars Corpons blade and dectinty cho

capabilicy to collect information Iran Korolon Countries,

m Ta220y. Half, we had

no zeason at the pareicular tina

so. foel that thate was any kind of a cass, hard infomationi

chas the Cubens wore bahtod the asaxosination.

In ottor worda, vas know, at that bartlular perlod to

cine there vere a large nunber of ripors, gossip, in cha

Cuban. Cormial cy

Phone that came to our accention were

raportade and ve txied to put then in sons parspactive, char.

¿o, who was the individual, uliar access did he havo: to this.

dats and so forth.

1us we had no parsuaston thus chis was boing munted

In the cheons de thar purt cular time

Mi. Wallach, I wooid ilke ta ask a couple of questions

by way os factoround and les din go right each to his iro

o1 quustlorado:

Maling che period as exaplary, Carober du 1953 v

Me, Malloy, datobar of *63, akay.

Ix 2a210ch, mich i take it dould be Firly indicatie

ot shas was going on in May, line, daly wi dayas, of cho

san Jeas, I wone to pick a fairly scardars roach for that

period.

de, Halley.

24

2,0

It*s my

Befode: Che assassater;

understanding that in adlicion to getting posit

TOP SECRET

Docu

---

## Page 18

TOPISECNEN

Intelligence from refugecs, eton, coning to thilacomert,

that your atacion did operate agento and did have sources,

whatever

tarms you wnt to ucer inside Cuba, is that dorcect

Ma. Halley+

Yes, ve did have sources inalde Caba.

Me, Wallach, Gould you briefly for the record i

(Pause)

Mr, Wallach, What I'd like to do very briefly for the

cocord, as you know, I think you had an inbervion with Mr.

Dacon and wont into ic with you, but vary briefty doscribe

gendzally the tyoe of operations that your station

was conduct.h

1904.2: 12: 12:10 1295

5

11

1. 0

15

16

19

20

2. 2.

23

24

20

Me. Halloy, Woll, an the first Instance we nose engaged

in forolon intelligence collection activities, that is tryi

to establish informacion which tulatod to cha

Plaas, intenci:

dapabizictos of the Cubap government, lle Were

3) 80

involved in counteristelligence opezations, that isi tryin

co: Liguze out what the Cubans vere doing in terme ol

thods

Intelligance operations in che united States, ot chrough ene

united sences into central and balin Anorloa.

We tiere siss

involves in propaganda operations avainst Cuba, and covert.

action in the bonse of trykng to establish doncact with

dissident military persomitates in Cuba.

Mr. Wallach Wichout naning nanes, did you in the ris:

period I*ve boun calliag duche, Datobor of 1263, have eleel

sources ds agents lately Mlonly placed within the Cubar

TOP SECRET

34100

---

## Page 19

TOP SECRET

2

6

10

10W1 10k4

12

14

46

Ce 20003

13

20

22

23

25.

governmont?

ME. Halley. Idonte think in there

I'd have co got a

better definition from you of what fe highly placed. Le you

are talking about fidel Castro and his inadiato encourago -

ME, Wallach People who could possibly, have beer

metings or dinnez with Castro, or meetinga with Castro.

don's knew enough about how Cantro operated.

Mr. Halloy, I voula say 16 you are talking abobe sonebour?

who was & norber of his inmediate entourage and who was denland,

with hin in a govornmental

when the answor is no, but

did have pecule who vere on the periphery of chis.

What

1o, they woultilk have been nador participante, but they

Would Have boen in social contact with castro or mombers it

115

antourage*

Nx* Wallach, Eos abous persone within the Dal, whatevek

correct

name

for Cuban intelligence is:

Ma, talley:

well, ogain as 1 montlonod earlier, we hau.

scale officer

penetracion. of the Cuban.

incolligence denvys

We had none reporting on people whe

were

in touch with:

vocious

rouders in the Cuben intelzgence, and 4t

was :all

416.:

social: of

Enmiy on other contost that shoes people were.

roporting on.

Me. Valloch.: 0o for vocall at any tine In 1962 or 10rd

the

fact

being brougos to your

attention that certain Cubat

agenes out of nov fork Cieg mano dcually beginning to rue

TOP SECRET

NWHHISS-10

DO01d/32425455

---

## Page 20

TON SEGRET

2

3

4

MAXO

20

12.

13

15

16

12:

mion Did. 90003

20

21,

24

25

assessination plota against: Cuban axite Leaders down 1n

Miami 2

Ax. Malloy

out of new York? No. I don't recall that.

Orie

thing, Jost befoze we Leave this,

so we don"t have an

Incomplete record; you asked no the other kinds of operationa

that ve wete zunning.

We were running a full scope of pera

military operations against: Cabar that In, we woro pucting

people back Into Cuba who may have core

from a particalar

DrOVInCO:

and who chan wenk into the bush and lived in the

bush, and ve

: Nept

chom supplied with food, anns, barte

equiement.

Ke.

have sadto contact with them;

He W9k0

Involved An casda againat the Cuban coast, no vore involvod i

putting caches

into

End Cuban coast*

Senator Schwelker. boos that finish your point?

Hallay, Yes,

sit, that's toughly. 1t.

Senator Schwelker, Folloving

p. this other quaattor

was day

one pare of your Job pluoding intelligenos Inaka de

this gaven tire?

Was: shore any

concorn daring your canetrans thor you wer!

arivolved in 04247

operationd it

intelligence leaks fron vas

country: to theirs thrown! the Cubat Irollagence systent.

Was this evce i consideration: of pricrity at you as

Gracion Chieft

Me. Halley*

Xos, in come it - wette yes, the answer

that ta yes

Now; Let me elaborate on it.

TOP SECRET

WooL

A me thi

52426155

---

## Page 21

коліто 3 Луги

NARY

6

20

72

131

14

16

27

18

12

20

22

23

24

25

TO A SECRET

Wa had a Jutladlatlonal problem,

Tos asanco, a Caban

mint dotoctod In the United Statch or bolng suspected of being

a Cuban agone vould have been a pass that wa vould have had

to have coordinated with the fat, and assentlatly the fbi took

primary

action on this.

I cocall

one ense. where

we detected a Curan ggont in the

Onitod States, and cho coso vas translaxced to the bureau and.

I: involved a findonental judedictional Issue, which vas

clearly the Bureau's right to

take that particular cass over.

so in that soneer

the printy

responsiblitty

in the Miamk

ores in the comberintolligence sonae tbac you are disassing;

Sonator, would have restod with;

the Barcau

Senator Soliwelker:

Old you ever attenpe to find & look

by biscing one of

our agents into the systen to plug a leaky

I mean, was it over that

msen-tuda: 0f concorn attachod?

No, I don't recall that kind of a case.

ocher words, I do cocall cases here people cane que of cubit

gave us a Blocy

that we did not pecessarily bolteve, where

we would cur then back and

send

chom back to cuba, so chat

ovar a longor pariou of tine ve could dotermino chat de is thi

tnoy were scally attor, what they wore trytry to do. In ot

wads, were 4047

eryang

to cone into the Unitod Sthres. to

penetrate and Umigrate, wero they trylag co. get fa touch axli

it no, why. But de was die dave

back. into tho Cuban context.

TOP SECRET

52425435

---

## Page 22

TOO SECRET

2.

3

sanator sohwelker. chie is a cough queation po anawer;.

bus: at that period of time, how successful in your opinion: wai

the Cubon

Incotilgchce synten in doing sone of that penetratin.

2i MO

I realite that ve had a lot of citan exiles here, and 1541

pretty hard to tol) the players from the

scorecacd ve act in.

It is a tough relevans guestion, but t wonder how you would

9:

10

11

Mc. Hailey, Well; & think it would be faie to any that

given che Cuban propensly do talk ' in other vords, you haro

co stars off vith a fundamental point of departure that if por

gos tuo Cubanb that havo got. d soccet, ft

ls nos going to t

i secrets boonues they do talk; and theodore choy ali conser.

13

14

17

20

22

2

26

Our biopest problen in maintaining sacurity of par oi

operactons, Roon as an infiletarion operacion jato. Cuba to

put in li cache or sun a conmando cald or but a poison back

in was

to patrinin security.

The onty way no couza do it would

Do to take all participants of thas operation and

take chem

one of the Cabos communasy and in

fact

isolate chom for d We

of con days de more prior to the counting of the operation

tha they woultart tolk, and we could know whore they voujd

be constantly, 24 hours & day. And wichun that meltou, I Cind

1l: 40 oa10

to say

that the Cuban Ineckligence sorvice aid fax

sono, agents and couto be crocco to lave a gonerat

kod) fa.

the pudge

of the community at that tide.

TOP SECRET

Doci

---

## Page 23

410 7Wsi Subel, 5:6:

KVION DIE: 20003

7

15

1.4

13.

16

12

19-

22

24

TOP SECRETI

senator Schwotker, Duelng Chat kano Lina Frone, or

during the time trane that you vere eracion Chiof, Wat ara

some ether Cuban scoops chat yon vorkod vith that come to

mird? I have mentioned DMl.& taalize thore vore sererad

ilfferent onos7

any ochors partioulany thas vetu haipiu and workud: with

you Ilke the DRS?

Ma. Malloy, Maltr cho pre was the moin group because

what had hopponod la alçor tho pior prior to che lay dy ligs

¿hote was

a: preat collaborasion betkror CIA and

a muriber al

chese gzoups:

Actor the Bay os 9190, the dialogue with theas

gralis sort os drlod ux, and Auring ny tenuce,.

the maun gxox

tas ve: worked wich in that ponse as an siganizational cuti

aS tI DRE bocanse choy has & Joe cê sotive, Anagliative

young studone desders who: bad

contacts thcoughout: the feate:

Homisphere whe wexe 994a14

ancorested dn ustag

thon an tira

propaganda and covers

accion dense in Contral. ard latir

ansich as no ware ascually uring ther abalnat: Cuba iteek?,.

Senator Schwoskeс..

Where did Alche Se fas ex vire K46

Ar: Malley: Wa did nou nave an organizacional colatax;

wich Alpha sei Alpho 66 sas An boing:

Ke monitored therr

activisles so that se would knos whar they were soing to 19a

aysinot Cuba: he muy have had papple uno as ona ciri

ex anoches waxe sa ove paron, bacy

¿das who leis us fos

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

2

4.

10

13

13

1:6

1.9

27

22

1,0

ManORSECRE

ons

reason de anothor, and nor havo endod ap to Nipha, 66:

Senator schwelkon Ve coalize that. one of the offer

Intelligance agandtes Might have: had a lialcon or working

oporation vich: Alpha 66, hor the Cia, is that corcest)

Mr Baltoy: Your

I shink in you known in the back or

ay snory I solion that one of the milacary services mi

senscor Bohwe tkor,

Might 1e have been the ariz

Initelylgonce?

Nr. Halloy, My recoitection, it was probobly a mizicary

service, and it probably was the Army, but I would have to

chock the socord.

Senstor Schwesker:

We diod wire intorned; and 7 ira;

vendorod if this

Was your resollection,. Chas as sone point

done où the operations got a lterle bit overterping and

duphicating, and that the boate would i In sinplityly it

oh course, but thas the boots weren*t coordinaund tod wordy

and du one point it got to be a probion with whoeves else

was involved, and that finally an agcochent was worked out

wiS) Army intelligence chat all de boace would se supplici

uy CiA listoad of having: them sork of fly-byrnighting and

possiuly hoss up sono things becanso ol dusiication of contie

Do you socali any of that at all?

#c. Matloye Mela I Chink thore were periods when

E.6. Covernent was purceng a Clany-dora on tefugee rotei

102719

Gue.

and the whale apparacus of gorainment, Coast fusi

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

Sia (Na 292) -34

dip Fort Direet, Jew. Wastinaton, Cc: 20500

NWH

3

10

:1.3

144

3. 6

17

16

210

29

83

1124

25

TOR SHARET

Custons, Trotgracion and Maturaliantos, POly Cal, vare worka

togothor to try to keep these operat cha free going to Cuba:

In

that cuntoxe

the military ald have sone problems, out

my recollection of thas, Senator, as that we put. then into the

coordination mochanden that we had for getting bonts out. 1

Sonator Sovietkar. I might have acated ie stong.

Woac: do you nan by e coordlantion nachanian?

Mi. Talley. Nolti for anoranco, ve hid, let's say, for

the nonch ot octobar 1950, we would draw ap

an operationer

plan in Septenber. In the course of that operational plan int

would have a nunbot ot

jenced to che lack of the poor.

Ent liration masione schedulod to rue in caches, Vete hate

¿ nonbce of misstona schoduled to

Dut

in toons or to take

poopie 046 DE Cu03:

Ka'd have a nunver of missions

do condues cosmando zafle againes lixed: Inavazlario.

so we wonta draw up. the schedule and coochinate

tho

sobedule with the appropriate agencies Lant toast Cuata do

custons po chat we could nove dur boats is and out and inot

causo the U,S. dovetinent, do exuend manhoses and money do

raving our boats.

sunator Schwelkor.& think that is whac i had in ziy

Mr. Malley, Rod thorofore, on elde ccnodule, when sa

worked thie nus, ne cocefore would tock :oo to mistasy

Operations

and work this ous so that there was &

centdat

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

TORE ECRET

2

6

8

I0

C

13

324

1$

17

10

20

23

22

24

Cleasinghouse, and the U.S. governmont Had A grip on What 16

was

doing An this clandestine stela.

Senator Schwelker.

To jour racollection, besides Army

Intelliconce, wore there any othar fatalligance secvicas:

that

were: Involved to any extent With that general pleture?

Ne: H0219y.

Na11: wich che mitation of that, as 1 recall.

the Navy had some activities: fa. and out of Guantanano, and thorel

were gone discussions at vazious tises on how thale pepple

In Guantaname could so nupported, and thn people were going

and out of Guantanamo

Senato, Schwelxer,

Were the Arry oparalions very oxcanad

or n06 compared to yours?

Mc: Halloy. No. Compared so ours: they were infinátoas

Senator Schweskes.

And Navy2

Mrs Balley,

davy, as I think did of this was leited to

she perinter all around Quantanano, and: duantanano.

Senatos Schwalker, All Eighte

Mr. Wallach. I just want to ask you a couple of more.

quascions

ps. I vos going to before.

I coolies this question do going to your expertise, ani

1E you have any trouble wich definitional terms, let's got

chom israught.

MC. Hx1107: Behots

4c4 Wallack: Did onwava descle as an ontity havo ene

capability Le conduct an invastigation to decernine whether ei

TOP SECRET

00

Docta

---

## Page 27

10

1.22

13

14

Ma C DC, Xing BiC: 20007

3.8.

19

20:

8.1

28

33

20:

25

TOP SECRET

not

there had been coban Larolvenous On the assassination of

Prealdent Kennody In 99632

Mr. Molley* 1 don't: think thece would have boon a real

worla capability amoon, lf youre kalking in my torpe od

conduacing

an invanbigation of this typo in Cuba, which vault

have bean:

professionally sound, that people could have put

confidence

271x

I Chink. the anawor to that ke

probably no; s

aviny you in opiaion. that is my opinion.

Me, Wallach. Let's go back to soma, chen 1'u not talkin

alast as invescigacion share you could

obviously bave cha

preodon la yo up and intcrrior aryone you waated

He laldes. No. No are balking about through clandestli

an ether words, do condoce this kand of investes

tian, you knox, in my sher, yoo would have had to have bod

¿ penotcasion do one or bore of the Cuban Intelligence besvini

Tho ponctrution would have had to have: boor in cha 26th of Jul

Movemert; and had enough

cappode wilh the kop leadereble tim:

le could have noved focely ir and

cot of a soccite gicele

would probably had. to have been

the lavel

od a. Comanolat.

noc huve that kind of cesouzet: in danct to ponduct

chas kind of investiguston.

Re: Wallach, Were those ever any dincuculons at chit i..

trut

you: ronenbor brecoon yoursele, Vitagorals, Helms,

ia'a

whethed or wot

the

CiA did novo tho capabizi

Le condues such an inventigations

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 28

TO PISECRET IN

2

3

9

10

11

22

13

14

16

17

Me, Balley-T don& cocall auch a atacuasion, bus agrinx

ths: reason for it was, it vas essentlally folt it that tino, as

namo tracos were dond; the whole mood and the whole atmosphere

was that this was a case that was being Investigated by the

F187e

It lus thoir Juciedlottonal problem.

Me, Wallach, Did the rol, to your knowledge, have the

capacity to inventigate or do conduct any sort of invostigation

Anal de Cuba?

No. Harley,

Inside Cubs?

No, I don*t think thoy did.

No. Wallach: Did joo have direct contact wich anyono

From

the Bureau on a continuing baste from the fai)

tot's restructure

tha, whold

What was the liaison relationship batoon anyave, tie

Dacois and Florida?

Mr. Walloye

There was a direct Liasmon on l daily worline

basis; le chis was sequired, between iNvAVe and the Miami.

floid octico, l thank it was called, is a separate fteld

a lo fest Sion 4C, MariGos: D.C. 40603

20

21

22

25

Ar. sohnston.

he what Lovet was chis alasson conduated,

dizor ly wich your

dr. Halley, No. This mos conducted as de loose Shoe

levals that I con recall: poriodically she Chiel of she frott

optice and f wenza ment to revior problere: it we bod any

wantsouls probiens, or frankie, Sure to gor Cogether just

ed make

sure that, we did not. have any prbblems

Thorp was

TOP SECRET

0o02d

---

## Page 29

TOP SECRET.

5

G

P:

10

ша з ту ди і ні кік

13

15

10

19

Airect Ilalson on a working level Lebreen tha people la the

Counterintoll toence shop of the station and what i chtak-the

Ducese used to ca. Cha Tanale Oguad, ahich. Wore

former

Buzcau

agents who has bock down in Havanad

who had lost when

Fidol

coro into sewar,

working In Minni. And An

"kalson Was

essontially with peaple who wore vorkkhg

spool fic

chede, sheze

the nano: traco nechanien bétween burzovo.

and

the lucent would shos sone mosuality 06 interest in a

perticular case.

anotonce, as an exanaley the lureau

might call up and

52y,

lock, what do you: know

about aban

Jase: Gonzaler of thi

Sucond Front oF ele

Ho*11 say, okay, vella take

tro question, no'll

a Cindex propora the anavery and damela

wild go doird and walk is chon.

so it was close.

* NOS CX080.

Me. sohnston, Dis you over de the reverse?

Did you sure

ask the Dareas for information?

Jas.

No traced apacitin people with the

410.9pCP Ma V9, Wastongion: DiC. 28003

20

221

02

22

25

Al. dohnston. It doverbery

alcer sod assocsinaston. d.

you pectonally work wich anybody. from

Clie

FBl regarding the

iroscigatlong

45. Undler, delore cardl motiagos that specisia.

3-120 7Ce

Ala.

Johnscon. du you know whether dnyone in inwave mot

TOP SECRET

Doeld

5463

---

## Page 30

110:50513

MART

3

3,0

13

1%

2 B

20

2J

24

TOPISEGIRET

with the TUz in togard to the 2Bt Investigation In 2loclda2

Ma. Walley: My rocollection is that this nano traco

proceduce. was.working,

whatever they wore working in salationoud

chair instiation, was boing cun through w8.

In ocher

words, hos nany trices, who was being craced, I couldare armicr

that-

**, Johaston. Well, name trades are one thing. I guess

I am talking one stop abova that.

Did anyone in JhWAVE co

your knowledgo diacoss with anyone: in for in Morida the

Cin's capability to assias the pot dovestigation?

de

anowering that

I don't

recall that

I doo": rac01l

Xind of thing.

You k004,

Chi 18 a Y0u k0dy

talking abous 1963. This is 13

raare auo, and i koey telling you, you: koos, tve had i busy.

ective life:

Sanabor. Sorrelkex.

You are doing so tax very well.

ME. 10210y-

20 dinost

I toel you are pressing: ne on sonething thist

I don't recall each and

*Voty cotiversation, & meat, Fbed a 300 max stoktoa..

Ne, donnason: I agios wich gou on that, but you are

describing hane exacel:

which you de been to recall, bus ti:

Saying was

there

anykhing beyond name traces shot you recti

Mas there any asskstance giver beyond none Kraces?

Senatox Senseuxer, Was Cheze

ong higher

that you can recalle

Level

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

130 pose best 56. Matimaton Ed 1000)

:6

321.

12

13

16

17

19

2.0

25

TOP SECRET

Ic. Balley. The reason this bane trace Chlos sticke in

my mind, trankly, la because of the name traces that wore con

Suchad on Oswald wher we

got the Nice and l docall. the hat

was made

on the fact that. there

was the Alecubaion and debatn

betwoon

oswald and the one follow, and we ware

tracing d Lok

of nanas at that time, aod in conjunction with

evont, once poople tore dsrasted and dotsinod and thaze was"

SOME COANOE LO

expect. that thore was what i called

jative tolto up, yos know, jou ro got to otart from pome

What wos thie fact?

You 14d

a hate: on address, a

celephone number, that kind oi

tracing was going on.

that.

La what impacts on. nex

Nhat

you know, 13 years later,

serator Echwosker,

Lor wish that the acous

the Dri group, these was

allocation that Oscald, T 9uxe8

pare do it

Le spality

tor

chat

be telec so penocrate

tho grocs himsete ky coming:

when he was in lew Orleans ahil

inciperate de on hie own, such

guess is known,and what

ib in doubt, theis was

an altogation: that whale to gas Corner

chose that he possibly calked of assadstacing tennedy or tr

pold monoy so assassinate Kernedy:

Does any ot

chas convexsasion sexike shy boils or rador:

sion wita cagord to cher

Me, Malloy:

Woe Xe ananoe, Gonators And 1 Chink I've

pro be axplain clue to you ds to woat was the dature de our

the bra, to: oches words, we hail 4

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

NONGERNET

107

zolattonship with the per whove we gave then a monthly

suboidy. In othor wordsx chie would nake thon in our catagary

Ilke independent contractors, In return for this paxticular

mubaldy, choy ware to collect intelligenos for us on the faland

of Cuba where

who sell had people, Thay wore to be a synpot

of

 certals

arount of recistance, thorofoze they had so engage

in certain activicles, pcopaganda, tadio broadcasts, corcarpon-

dence so thair friends and ssesolaceo on the ¿neide to thay

that there was a spark on. the outside, around which people ed

30

12

26

16

17

10

19

80

22

23

20

25

They also vantud zo have a bost to move poople inosac

and out of cuba; and tre noney; the subsidy that we gavo thi

helpod than do 1i se exese things.

And we got an accotalli

tron thon dut we did not control each. and ovory action Hide

thos took, no that it thay chos, you loom not to seport

somethin to us, lo woulon', necessarily know it, and not

every little detail of their organization did so k00w

thay mut somebody vi

Seniror schweiker, Nall I con understand brat beckoni,

there wure & lot of groups like thor, bu sucer

Bus chat partieuter one sos

one with khan

a subsidy solationahxy

Sonator schweikes, Do you: rutall who your control

calationship wis wich that parcicular group? l ascue theo:

was: a Cil control relationship:

TOP SECRET

NAH 36520

D6C10:92423450

---

## Page 33

мАно з укук

20002 2x2 3a

420 F00 SUAS SC3

10

1.2

22

14

25

16

17

19

20

21

22

23:

24

25

as, there was a partloular an that was In

that group, and there were coveral during that Deriva

Alalcon

wich

time:

Lenator

che name

Schwelkor, Might it: have boes Carlos Artaguier,

mensioned before?

Halley, You mentioned the nane, and to be honest, tha

30 tale

8oca5*4

xIngä boli but 1s bo also known as

Tabby?

Fonatoe

Schweiker, Wall, you le got ne now.

dal]

Wo21, every Cobon has: an allas, like, they

ham It Gordo. or

sonething: take thaty

senator Schwalkoz, Wold, It miche bo- He fits it.

Mr. Mallov, Woll, jou might be ablo to answer chis.

Wadi

Ac the follow Choc was on the bre boat that raided Havana?

I: have ircable

matching up some of these names; and frantly.

chae done

doush'e ring & boil, but I night have Roow Sim i

In Condo, and he was on the book; and we dealt with difterent

(oincuasion ofd the record.)

Ar. dahnaton; her no show you wave cable bore, datod

#overbon tade Which As yous lopone go tois Dur master. u

that caote. Dasically Lauseaces Chat jou got intormation trod

DRE abous duwalde

in that correcti

Ac. 107145 1084

the wording o% chao particulus cabi.

choke that we did sec from the one tiles this information

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 34

24xn 0: 9. 2000x

4t0 Frat Strees.

2

5

6

9

10

1,5

16

27

1:8

19

20

21

22

22

85

TOP SECRET

Me. Johnstone

Hy quention to you tailos pactlaz eigniti-

and that do the tact that that cablo saya that Oavold

"allogadly livos in hone of Foreign Minlatez for Evo montha:"

My question 1a that this allogation shas he livad in

che hone of the Soviet foreign minister has nover bear

abstantiated through any other source, and I wonder whether

you have a cocollection ot going back to pre to aco where

they got that information.

Mx, Holzey, - No, I donte have

& recollection of going back

on that specifle cable.

Me. Johnston. Do you have any recollontion of bondousete

ever conng back to you ana cayirs that to the acurce or taur

Mr Halloy.

you know, I don't sod how you can expect. ne

renancer that, coally.

You know, In the course of a day.

¿ normal day,. I might coad a thousand cableu:

Senator Schwalker, Well, does the tact chat lie night

have

Lived in a Sovios foreton minister's hore for two noners

cing a bolly

her Malley. Well, you know, shoving me that orator y

have to accopt the cablo at loco value.

That as that at 1824

I acknowledge that is what de says.

The cable says we got it

fron cho Dil. I douept to on face value. That incident.

Sher

tocough eininter's robidence, does not. sing a boll wick

Senator dekwolker. so you wculda know ofthand whate at

TOP SECRET

199

---

## Page 35

Phone LArge 2021 564-9004

6

10

12

23

17. 14

1 6.

17

18

20

21

22

24

25

Nx. Malley»

No vould have es ge back

to chen and their colterla for carding might not colnalde wich

In coher words, many of these Cubon groupe vere exond

to

act on zurora, They were prone so publiciza things.cha

WeX&

not. true.

The DRE had a 2000%1 o€ publiolalay, entroidecti

elaborating on thlogs, and therafore we treated a lot fk Choix

macorial wich caution..

sandsor Schwalker, Right.

go ahead,. Paul:

Me, Wallach: Conerally, now, and I'm not unking for

specill: conversations. at all. & think de is entiraly true,

3% a saveat chroughout thie entire thing, we are talking

about 13 pears oçc, millions of matters age. aub yener 11y 06

you rocuts whocher os not the fBar

the pooped you dente with

kad any goneral knowledge of the CAle capability inside

Coba to set information?

Ne, 20112y.

woll. I think

it would be fair to say that

the rne know tne kinds of oporations shes va vere tunning.

I think they conld have drawi cortud concluaiona duodt,

you

know, what ous capabality adult have been.

That day

pus this in: pecspactive." In talking acout the pecoke ki

Miani. Occastoodly when I would con to Washington for

confocanees, I would nece somebody. Line Povich, We hoppeno i

to be, 200 knoxy Arionas, and & would talk to him and say

tod are you doinu; how are things going; What kind of activit.

TOP SECRET

120495

---

## Page 36

TO RESEARAN

are you Envolved La?

Papich probably have a feel for the scope de our aothvier

but whother ho wouid have an apreciation os tho kinds ot

apocific dounces, " doubt it.

ks. Wallach, In othar worda, you would doubt whorher or

not anyone In the bireat would have known whothes or not you

had an extronety high lovel source in anscrols entourago.

Mx. Malloy. I doubt that they would know that.

Mr. Walach, Means tine, do you cocolt after che essasca

nation. anyone .from the pureau, oven Exon to

11018

0864 C

or from. bondguarters, Chrough Vaplol, Chrough yous headguarter

ochitectlag: you to dotochine whother or not you had

che

to conduck Lavestigations on Cuba?

*, Hollor. Noy. I don't recall

that

Do you want me - Can wu go det

the record for

mind boy

denator

schweiker.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mix Razzoch, Lotts go back on the tacoco.

Were you inown so the 20z under your coal name ou

under

an gleas?

$ 10 Fou Wreat, FE Nirkington 0.C. 20003

3

4

6

20

14

16

16

19

20

22

2 3

th unt inder try

IE YOu Are WOnder,D0

chout whether

the name

4$ 00105:

soon ty in tne tai zocort, i shink thay always would, in k

Neing of muoato, do not uno: the cure nanda. da obnot waia

they say, you knaw,

sourod or confidential informant: or k

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

2.

10

4 2

13

L4

15

16

27

18

19

20

24

24

25

NIN

Doc

whatover to was ontled, and that sa the voy they weste those

Ns. Hallach, Lat me ask you this.

I contine this was

e subject matsox that was covared in Jour previoue

casttmoniy

I door 1c 0è volovance, and I vould like to ask you here, veru

you aware on lovenber 22nd, 1903, that the GlA hes at sono potb

in bino pelor to that doco itsele orgagod in actonped to assets

nate or used others in accompia: to assassinate Fidel Castro?

1% 19l10r, No, 1 cluna che basie ananor to that quorries

1s ha, bus 11 yos looked at my previous castimony, i bravioli

said that in the case of Chas

Citar sonandunte over thie yeart;

I Los acgatrod some krosodge sl

What

no extoçou bag

he was being run by

col leagues

in Wastington,

but that cas

was not Knowe: to me

al eareint

apsassinaciox Operation.

other vords,, at one point in tine

I know that Des Air:gersid

was gone to hoot this fello

I Know at ohe point in tine

chers ras. going to be a nocting: an Spaln: 1-knes at one pou

so cime that so sore puccare

cachiod la se buphors Chis.gor..G

follow, l never kuck hechor woe caches vora

rocordzed,

chanes make Enac, But

I have also previously koskithod that on nona bi tho

assiuktaos thas were boing engaged in.Uy Me. Nocvor, that *

wass not khowledgaoble on, you know, the thrust ce those

activitien

se wallachi Did your oun sourcas in the Coran courioit:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 38

В так в.

fin.

NW

2

12

13

24

16

18

20

21

2,22

2 4

TORI SEGNET

tell you

Cos, chab no cala the andervorlay the Mattar

WAS

:ongading in attanoer to ascasataate Fidal Cascroz

Mes: Rattoy: I donte rocll any such reporta, but flva

oxalataad this, and las me go agato on thia, that assassinati!

the word "assassinalion* was part of tha ambiance of thak.

tine. In othoc words; ovury Cabon that you talkod to, nopody

coutd ba Involved in Cuban operations without having tad

sone sort ol a discussios at some time vich sono Cuban: Mho

ania, gée, we oughs to knock this quy oft, er ild sboos him in

I tiad the chance, de the way 90

ercace & revolution

1a: 20

shoot Sidal and fouly and

thon go down through: the whott

face

Chat

Monetney world talk about

assobuination Quat waan*e

chytang thae was coally out el ci

oxainary at the circ

Ic was

part of the calmate.

TheBo

were protossional covolucionazios

io sono casoo, nen whe bo.

bren

1n

the 2040 01

July

novante tv

and lete and come da and

becono extlese

and had bean

axiles tho or three

cinos *

Revolution and assasination was y way pi lito for chen.

Me. Wallach, Did von fave thy donst ax youe mind anis

Castro Was creso in dovener 1003 chas the Cla was Supportt?

Ne. Hallach.

As: 1241244 Tera 3 609k

disuso new thot the Unitell

States was in touch wich groupe lise che prE, that suopte

TOP SECRET

100

---

## Page 39

TOP SECRET

2

€

20

11

7.20

13

10

17:

16

20

22

20

wase boing intiltrated by CIA Anto Coba, because they apprehen

sumo of

chem

Ne. Wallach. Groups that wore trying to overthsow

Castro.

No. Mallos, sue he had to ansume that it they were comy

La, they wore sotting up queriita foxcos in places tike

oriente Province, and pinás del Rio, Char yosi they vero going

no work to overthrow him, nod ho had to know that.

Me. Hallach, hore you aware of any other country that

che Uniced Statos Governmont was at that Simo attonscing to

¿verthrow: the govinmont di, and i can got your anover pet

the record hide is positive.

No. Malley, Wolly Moit a minute, Would you copiedde

In not sure & follow that

One+

nation, said

Mr. Wallach.

Vod

and back to no wich the vord assass:

the arbince of the tines, that

was part

that might have bcor arsevasee

ali one time or another:

balade, as a layona, has been i don't sos that nuch of 7

debtsnocion bessoon sending

sonicone in who to going to try a

onent a covolution. thu resual of whach would procabus bu

she doach de Casudo de copoxes to sarding concore in to

dos's wans to get tado chtse bar t chink thos nay hove beet

sonching that you were Court Cax

In are ever are you tore at any eches country tri:

che b, or thas the was directing attenpts to overthcos kn

TOP SECRET

40450

---

## Page 40

No rubiqunt, SE. Warden, 00. 2on69

3

20

18

1. 3

15

10

16

20

22

22

23

24

ATOR SECRET

mana Glide peri

gorarnment 012

Mr, Malloy, No. O2s the top of my hond, ho, but i

do want to come basi to your point. i do think thore la a

Alffozenco in the Latin American revolucionary sense of piostit

a Covoltelod against sonobody

as opposed. so plotting a

spoultic ascascization operation againae a particuloi individia

You know; maybe wo: have an honess difference of opinion. on that

point, but ny you dillons

4000 YOUE) -

20x- Wallack, Nil right, let me cortinue on.

Vou. alco

montloned before that

some de the people, the

people that you

Foxe wary kakang sonora, policy, vote doinar

Boboy ronnady, an one point ld kansdale.

A2. Madley. Oh-kul.

Ne. Halack, bid tie Cubans Know thard bid the Cubais

that

Jabby Kernedy was Involvedi

NI. Halley, I dontt know that they wore dt that point in

tina; but sloasty at loter points of tine whos tho Brigade 2504

corones: yos; Croy Know that: Bobby Kennod, was in the Cuban

policy altairo.

Landers sE

she bergade laxe Accline, 01443%

the San woon brochers dod others were

brought to hastington

for Lunches, danners wies, t goons du

chao cine it wos this

Astoracy Veneral,

becabad shore. were various

Phasos in Chic

thanga

103 г

Mei alecia

ahoy krow he was Anvolvad in Curos affalra:

are you tamliat wich do article that aa

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

П...

NW

2

8

9

27

33

19

30

23

24

25

TUTOR SECRET

i i chink st

was the Soptonbes 7Ch Ladue of the Now octeans

anong: Other newipanese, which reflectod an

Incervier. Castro hod with Doodol Horker of the AP; within shicl

ho said in nubacance that u.S.

loadore woule be is danger fe

th0y

continued in chois

acconpes. I Whihk he aned the word

«eliminate"

Me. Balloy: Nos, I'm Laniller With the conoral articlo,

105,

but 1 can't 10ll you vich carcalaty that i was aware of

thai piciole at the etna chat le appeared. 2o othos vordo,

you're asking bbout 1964, did gou any it appeaced?

Ar. Wallach. Septenbos I, 1963.

Mx: Maldey: i cannot

swear that i knew about

de. in 1965.

I vinco Ands: that thes acciale has boon zoterzed so a nimbor i

Johnscon i

scale for the cecuad that 1

did not bring the wAyS

cable on

Madeless the

chas

article

I but WAVe: did pass to hover

4a ik appeared la Miand

anticles, passod. cine

intorration to boadqbarcers of ther. pa

bine

2304 or 21ch of Javenher bocause cho Fa: Was Incuzzing

about oxile groups shrining that Castco had. Erreacenod Kannon

angios so chat ac lones wive had knowdodge signs afras end

assasaddastor as chao balicle.

He. Waded

Alt Night. To reason I quality my despite.

that may lane been a cable that would have boor boleasey by

vowe monue of m stole: 2e dude's pacessarlly follow thor .

TOP SECRET

425155

---

## Page 42

6M t9

Grand, SC., lessbington, Q.k. 2000%

10

2.2

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

25

TOP SECHIT

WAVE cable, that l personally celosand S.

¿ conte happe

to recal 16, bot: " on famillar with the accicle and the thrusti

o4 It:

xx Wallach, I coalizo again you may not have boes

with at at that tine, Dy

evar: before the assassination, but

what in and fin now asking

spoolsacally for whas Facts, bus

you have concified previously

cbab

=I don't want do paraphies

your toscinony, it spooks for itself - that you had ho season

to. believe that the Cubans Were involved in the assassination

of President Kennedy:

Me, Haley.

Woo; of tho tine that the inoidene accurrd.

abd whoa davel a was apprehended, ¿ had no ceason to believe

that the Cubuns Woro: Invoived:

wallach

Taking the othes side of the coth, hit.

evidoned was there in yout mind

that. they wore not involvout

Nx, Matters

Rett, bocause we

Aidn"t have any eviduase

that chey were

Mr: Wallach, 010 vos conduct ony invostigation at ali t

do ferline

¿i chard who any luvolvemenez

2x Fader. & don't have ang chartor for that inar

wicils wace arcostes

Tie 7D1 ana tho suchorties in that

particular, in Called, were pursuing cho: case. I hid no

charted to pursue that.

Mr Walkeeli

Did are over ust has Hole whether or per:

you could conduce such. an

investigation, ot dis he ever for?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

TOP SECRET

R

5

?

13.

12

2:3

26

Mild poo Smart, DE, Macintion 0 6, 20003

I77

18

13

2D-

22

25

you that you could of could not?

Nex Malloy. No, I answered that, that 1 don't recall

such conversation whete Hains told me I could on coutd

nidt.

I mean, chas was not a subjac; that vas being discossed.

I think the frame of refozence as the time was choe this

was: not a jocladictional

case for the CIA to puroue.

Ne. Mallach,

Xew taan, the Presidont of the Unisod Acutes

ta murdered; and it in not within the Joriadiction of the crA

to determins lf a Foreign country je unvolved?

Me: Halley

Not if the investigation is xun by the

EuI and a person is apurelionded, and ane is going to aroune

chat he he going

to be intercovaced, unvestigative loads ace

going to bo cocainod. Coon at. and

¿ porticator agency has 101

the action cosponsiblity, Under those ofrconstances, my

percoption pl the vicione rules is thas cil partoras a support

sunccion.

In ocher worde, de you are asked for a hane

Crace:

c crades on kalophono punbexo, physical descriptiona.

you know, liconhe platen, hacoves he moy bo, you deapone.

Me, Nastochi. Who gave you thasd Lostructions that.

cia was only mins to have a seport knotion?

Me. Balley.

That dang perception.

lilo told you that?

mr Batter, Mobody bas to cold you chat. You're áo

incall cyonce hoar brind. You or datored to chink for ouc

cas cone to logions concidstona:

TOP SECRET

NAD

DOLTU:32425455

---

## Page 44

TOP SECRET

now 6 0kv%

205 71h119 1965 Qin

2

8

9

10

13

14

25

17

18

29

20

23

24

ME. Wallach, Did somebody tell yousthat the

Dar had

primaty Juriadiction?

Me. Halloy. No, but the Pal has primary furisalation.

this la something ve are taughe in our training coursen, fo

Che United

States, You know

foe cases in the United Statos:

For

inatance, ny explahatton of this : I gave you an explenacidn

of the countexintolligence oise in the States where we found

a Cuban agent in the United Scatos,and the Jaciudiction of the

reverted to the 23i,

Sonator Schvetker. Do. You want to: make a comment

here,

Foympur?

Me, Boltex Ite like to go off the record.

Senakor Solvalker, X11 cigitc

(piscussion off the record.)

Senator Schustker. Lat's go beck on the record.

Mx. Kaylach

* rave one p two noxe questions on this:

Senator Schweiker: 111 Fight*

Mr. Wallach. Did at any time during the existanca of la:

oncon comdasion, do you recull i and in not asking for i

ayoc lie event, but do you recall havine auy type of indired.

relationship nich taat Countsalon, In assence, casponding to

roquests that were nade

of the Agones and they

asking. you tx

yeneras intornationt

He. Maltoy.

Would you jive me the dates: of

Kazzori

Commissior?

TOP SECRET

9455

---

## Page 45

moves Cane na adesi

isto foi Sort 86 Ponegoo, 0. Cx20003

MACA

2

5

9

10

13

12

13

16

1.7

10

19

20

22

23

TOR SECRET

Me: Halley: Deconhes Zo 163 40 when?

Me, Wallachs Soptenbos of *Es.

Ne, Walley"

#&« Wallach: Do vou have aby reacon today to batieve

chat

checo

was ciran Involvemens in she assassinatior of

Presidorit

Bonnedy?

Me, Balloy.

" have no hard lotorrasion on thas,

Na: Kallach, Do sou have any bearsay information?

Mr. Balloy, No. I Mean, Hearday information, what

constitutos headsayo: Crio) wrose ao deciole in the Wachingtsy

char chere

is bono mi de that

I nean, 1 don't loppen do bottave hes

Chards

wo, Mallach, #an aaking you it you have

any belies as

hectody evidence?

export?

Mx. Harley da an expect 1 only deal in faces, io octos

vords not minhat : consider hard intolligence, I don't have

any hazd intelligenco.

Ne, schriscon, Othur tron the For, dia vou have a 1taraov

Investigative agenelos?:

Me: Johnston: Dio you have an Inventigative corational,

wien che 0.s. Custons Dopactmono, specatically # Custois

agone who was. on decail te Can?

relacionship with e Custoina

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

TOP SACHET

3

:4

17

minivie Meavi

13

14

15

16

17

20008

20

21

22

84

25

agent by the nano: of Cenar Debatadoe

Canaaz PoLatado was

Setallod on an arrangement between CiA. which was In being when

I cane to: the station.

Ise petriasy function was to be

orationed in Koy Weat, Florida, la gopoxally covered the area

from Key Wool to elther Moroshon or 1e could have been in

other: Mozathon or 21 Marade, and his takks wore, one, to

find Cubans who wero: coning Into the Unitod States in inall

boats, and to ensure that he cook a quick look at thei to

see it any one of then could bo turned around

so: ba used s

Intelligence sources. If they couldn't bo und as intelligenc

sourcos, Ne akimed off the perishable intormation that wai

rcally cotlicel, and chen put it into our apolor

flaggod the krowteágenble peonio tos turthor exploitatton r

un: when the wont ta the opa tood balefing contor. le also

sicked up oquipment, that

do docurents

Exon cheat people,

weagsos, Clothing, 3o thut we coula use authentic cloching as

equip our own teams.

Nex Johnston,

Did be also star le contact wich certain

Cubon ex11002

r: 1atle2: No Aid Star An contact with Cuban exile

groupe bacause te was pare de bia job ta know whon they eri

joint oue do tuat we didnte hove those uncoordinated proble

to other wards, at one point we tried to.

stop them. As airy

has to knew woo was in the

aros maning: & training camp ot

sonathiny like that, so chas our operations soutd not be

TOP SECRET

UMNSS3L0

Dact

34/03

---

## Page 47

TOP SECRET

3

9

20

12

12

33

14

15

16

17

18

kampion: bid, zono:

20

22

4 Ld Forks Sirkel.

23

24

comeronised by conag into, « camp exe to thera cope custod

Cubans were already working:

Mxr. Johnaton:

And ald ho w lot mo back up, Firet, have

you

participater

in the Agency's response to the Commitreats:

written inquiry about khta?

Nr: Malley. Voll, to this extont, somebody in the Agonay

callod no and sale the Committoo had a roquess in for come:

data: on d Cussona piCloes

Nobody could. romanbow. his name;

happencd to remedibas

his nanc; I sald faosar Debatado kas the

guy's nane.. I don't remembor how to spoll it. Phonetically

I think It 1o as followa, and try to find a flle on it. And

so to that extent, yes. I an aware that there wad some sört o

¿ response being propared, I did not see the response. 1. :

don't Know Whac 1E 0095x

2e sobaacon: Do you know whethet he was asked either bai

you or by anybody In VAVe to contacc Cuban exiles

after tha

assassination to and khat knowledge: they bight have?

Ar. Halley. Noll, lat no try to clarity that. i wis

not his contact point. In othes words, & Was

a manager.ou&

large coctation:

Ne. Johndion,: I underarand coati

to did anybody under

yous control contact hiniz

Ar. Taller ilto polat of contaot was in Key West.

sally be would altice cone to llani di met vito one ot

реорив, and

once overs three months or someching like that 1

TOP SECRET

U9CL9

405

---

## Page 48

3

Каукол, Dic, 20000

AT0 Fig 561

NWRI

OF SECRET

4:

- 6i

10

12

13

14

15

16

18

would

have a meeting with kits to sevtow brod econda, elther

in Key West or An Miami. & nevor taked hija with

Chad:

t3oe of

thing. I don't recall anybody else in the: station

tanking hin

ro conduct an Invandigation of cuban groupe rolativa to the

Presidonate assnesination, Due as ve vore puttine togethes

noçd cables - you shovad me an cramplo

orie

there in 1eds

conceivable that he is the

Kind of person that we would have

tolked to: co: find ous what was going on in the Cuban cormunity

at that time.

Me, Johnston. Do you know whether he did in foot contact

Cuban Oxiles about it? Do you have any knowledge of his contas

Cuban ext 087

Max lalley, I don't have any Firathand Krowlodge!

Mr.. Johnston, Do you have any Bnowledge whatsoeves?

Mr. Malley. I would have to say firschand,

I don*t

recall any information of any

subordinate of nine seporting

T.!:

my that ho had done that.

Me: Johnston:. You chess fiod daxilor chas you met wich

Max Pirogerald at sone pointy and that he told you at chat

tire that; bo tado: concast personally vich a Cuban agent, orde

20

21

22

24

25

Mr. Hallay. I think my testimony was sonothing alony t

Line, toot I had i conversation wich fitzyorald, that ho wi

going

he ricet a cabal source.

My recollection mos chas cha

name may lavo cone ap, that he was askine m apinion and a4u..

TOP SECRET

bocid: 32425435

---

## Page 49

TOP SECRET

1

2

3

8

10

21

2.2

as to

whether Chlo would be a useful thing to do.

And as I

have

testifiod bafore, my recollection la i told Him I thought

I would find this corvornation interenting, but i aidnte think

1r wos worth his dotra baouze lo: had too high a profila, ind

1s would not he a g00d thing so do fcon the point of vim of

attribution in celacionship to

a clandestine agent:

Me. Johnaton

And Let n0o

go through whnt you have Jus

cold me.

Elrst of all, was this agent, when be used the tzue:

none, was le the agent whose cryptonym Is ALASA?.

Mr. Matlov: 10s%

Subaoquently & have concladed that eliai

1.4

1,6

16

17

Ur. Johnacon, Dacio coll you se traicate that à noosin;

bacwoon. hir and ANtAAl was proposed?

MI: Walley, Melt, he was constadring a meeting Wich

AMASH, wich this parbicular person.

Me. donnaton. Do you have à recollection as to what

sireiraro your discuosion wich Me. Miragecald was?

410 FiNG Singet 1.X

nina: DiC 20003

19

30

21

22

23

24

25

Ne. johnston. Knowing: Chat Me, Mitadozade not with

ALAsh on octobur 29tn, 1962, doos Whet cotcost your cocol:

as to whether the conversation took place cartles in 19637

P. Halley, len sores, I cants arrow that down for

11014 4

thra

Johnscor

But you advised ajairas the heating.

TOP SECRET

DadTd 32423455

---

## Page 50

6

8

19

: 12

18

16

27.

10

20

25

TON SECRETA

Ne. Halloyse Right

Mx; achiste: You iiro kroutedicable, I toko der de i

Agonsy'y donling with AMansa from. timo to tine, as part de

tes.. I montioned to you cariles that ve hid

pur in caches vich vore achoduled to he cotrierod by aneasu

er hia paopla, so goo, I trow that va voro providing zupport tr

an agons in Cubd, bus thac was not tousual bocaose ke were:

pasting lo a largo nunber os cachod for a side varles 0?

poople who wece boing con due of washington, over and pil of

Jometon: And son moy Nave cossatied above this bortou

but was it cormon do duop caches di rifles or telescopis siglil

for agento?

Mr. Rallovr I wocle nos nacorearily have known what wks

in ench sache:

Mc. Icaston.

trell, vas It comon to dras, to your teorit

no drop nifles wich telestople righes?

Me. Mallor Moll, i thint the thing chat would ba un

coinen would bu telescopie sighta

Mony: 0f our cachos week.

wespons cachos. A Jarye bule O% ha cochos vere vitlos of bid

kand ox anothos, wo pue in the pala tie belgian FAx we

put io Melai la pus ii carbonar, ve pus la Spatugtiolds, a

pas Lo Chonpsor kubnachine Sons.

"I chink

& cache list and 1 say a tolescope on it natched

Wi tili i

TOP SECRET

21204

---

## Page 51

*:

5

7

8

9.

10

28

14

16

17

1a

19

20

23

414:

20

TOPIYEGRES

springtleld *03 ritze, that arabably Monta hame

struck ne as

being

anuaual; bus 1 Ale not aeo the Anventortes of all the

Mc, dohtiton. Hexid you conmonly de mitinely sae cables:

Ixom tho Director, expenlozzy do the AMbask operation?

Me. Halley: NO.

From the Director

No klion)

Me. Johnston. To SANAVE.

Me, Walley. My rocollection is, othee than spoorele

marjuests to pus. in caches;

Chas

there wants any coate trattix

bocucer Washington and.

Jinave on that parsicular cpetstion.

Johnscon. I an anarching carough my aeros

MK S

dohhistoa

Une: Commitese door not have dopies: ot sta

File of

so you ne

d= as a foct thac there

WaS

2: cable

sti

early bacember

2363 Econ the Director

ionde. Atrecting, using she crypt

AMaSH. and Orrecting

what a

dache be cupulted Mini Anotedino

that,

shamizing owe

rifles wich colescopie

sights

ME. badlaze. that kind

In oakos worde, tha: would have booh d lairly standsti

Logisties

kind of thing to get a cache and it would have dous

an on my briefing chace for che nonth, the quotasion, i curbo!

at days

before too operation was launchoa, 1 mould Saia pid

a brieflag wich all Of Cho paramit saty and norttine dilicora

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

3

B

16

won/ Cut 200/01

17

18

19

20

21

22:

23

22%

25

and que colarz, brewn and other spectallata:

to dock at the ov

and make a deciston. as so whether:

the oporation

should: go 0x

not ge. At that point i probably would have known that it was

* cacho, shut It concaines weapons, chas il ias

an S92PO2e 01

a hoalgaarters zun oparazlor.

Me, Johnston, Do you recall of or about 7

or 8 Deconbok

1963 & stop being put on opetations;

cortain operationg that

went

Inco Cub47

Mr. lalley, I donte recall that spocitie cimaizame, bur

choro were

pestodie ups and:

the numbas

operaciona

chat:

could be tin.

No. wouid

poliog

guidance

down for

a period ot

Line:

once one of

titone

chings exac

think chat. we had

sorios De dascussloas,

Nashingcary and 4000a40x

chat 11

meeto kies

SLandidaten, ind

we laud 1aas

SonicChing,

dependents

In: Goba

for todd and a continuing

fLow:

weapons,

Mas we

coul ax*6

have thom

propazing thebe:

caches and risking

theld hives

come to the cacopcior points.

and not le

able

schedules.

#. Johoston: 0o you Locals; though,

1.10;

the period 6y

and i Degenbec, headquercore

03460171

opecations and

then ead ting

atE

the aporations, nod

apecifica

which sabdi and a quote - pardon do, a done suote.

the operacions being called ore,

"panting major cop lovel

Chan-saribbean polley revier dcbeduled carly next week wish

TOP SECRET

NA H

DOC10V52425456

---

## Page 53

400 Minst Strang Gen We

winston, tuf poppy

2

3

4

6

8

10

22

22

13

25

16

10

19

20

2202

22

23

24

25

TOL SECRET

shouza provido besto too cuotaton:

Mi: Balley: I don't rocall you spoclelo dates or your

tinatrana, but the point I would ilke to leave with you is that

thore were several periode like that where we had upasand downs,

and yes, = do recal Standdowns on oporations.

Ne: Johnston

3ox donte socall a standdoun Lihin two

weeks of the assassination ce President. Kennedy

Me. Marleye

I an spray, I don*t. You know, i accept that

it socurrody but you know, there were so many of these during

tho three and a holl year pociod of tine that i don't recall

that spocitle one.

Ic volination.

What doos the phrue "highes authority"

generally mean in Agericy cables?

No. Halley. Well, do that particular point do fine, I

chink highes authoxity was d euphonism for the President and

cop levol poltos Assisionmakers at the NSC: 10 Conmichoe Level,

Me. Johnston:

And again, you don't recall krowing in

the same tins perlod, Decembor 1903, that you waze cablod that

tho headquatters: procedure was to prosent the Infiltrasion

mnoceduresico hiyher

authority

Mr, Malley, Nell, I have forgotbon the date when this

transition took place. Aa ofia fixod date, in the course

of this operation, we had to supply all of our infileration.

oparations & bonch in advance.

1m sorky, & Just don't

recall when that went into offect. Prior to that time we wor

TOP SECRET

242

---

## Page 54

$

12

16

2 6

18

19

20

21

28

24

TOE SECRET

Pratty velt achedalang thdea, ourselven, but than remisse

come la that ve pit these do a manch a advance.

Do as I

Cold you before, de - wanted to Run a achedule for October, 1

had

no have it in in Hoshington wich all of the Oes pleas

Dy i think the 15ch of Septenzer.

Senator Schwelkoe... Did a formor anbassador i413Lam

Paules, a man called klittan Pauler.

who. as ond timo owned

proportios in lavana and now It/ing

in Miami, ale he evor

¿inance sone of the oporations that you aro avare of out of

Miami; Filitan Paulert

Me: Halley*

Yeh, I kinck DIld Nauley..

He who involved

In ay time, ln one spocitio operasional accivity. i don't

Chink do vovid bo propor co bay chat be financed la. howover:

Senator Schwalkok.

This: is che pre muore people were

killod in e boas estar

We. Malloy: Kell, we. don't kook khat happened ta Chei.

My recollection of the abecation As bak alal Paules was

approachod by Lite Magazine, and this was Instrod vath an

individeal by Che Hors 1 John Martino, Degause this has come

му: 420021474

the Commiscoa has osked me about chis before 1

Lola thom

at

irat I coulude retenbor the nano, and 7-7a0

to go back and condues a

file peacch, and 1 come up with

ir Cuba.

Martino was in touch

With a

TOP SECRET

number of cusons whe

---

## Page 55

TOREREE

Paular brought ENta oraructon to the Agency and the Agency

agreed that we would cooperate with then in pornule of Erla

operation.

Senator Schwelker, And Timo-Life did sore finding Fox

3. 2

42

18

21

23

24

Mx. Balley-

Well, they were Invcived, but they did nos

fundie. My recollection ta Paules made

the boat ovsslabler

the Flyine rigor, which vas his yacht, we pase fos the gas and

ost fox that particida: bost, une so providad al of the other

equipment that went lato the operatton.

Pauley wone on thee

vessel down so the Lainch point. Che min were Launchce in a

swall inesarration boat; It tock off, wens. off tovard the

Cuban: mainzand, and varo nover soon or heard from Since then.

Te hover had any reporciny on ther

Senator Schwesker:

Hos Paoley involved

with other

aporations with yos folks, or is that the only one?

vx. Malley. That is the only operation Chas be wis

tavolvas wich the Agoney*.

Wate

very helpfel an

tomis of providing aurice on vorious people

that he had knowin

train his

Jong Involvenent in taur.

was

useful in providit

intacuactions to vartous people that we rabbed

7ec01

on ohe occasion he intxoducad me co a brominent Culinu

chue t

I wanted ta rost, no brokesed that,

pauley, on his own, gavo money to various. Cuban urdul»

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

TOMSECRET

2

3

6

10)

10

13

15

10

29

20

21

22

25

unrelated co sial vouce doling

e was Nelso a pastraspont

in cho raising of the loltial carson for the cemboraloe

Drigade 2506,

Schotor Schwalker, Jens is as acticle , cather than me raad

1e 721 give you a

Chance to zead At. 76 la Cladeo Boothi

Lice. AS y0u know,

she is de

thie

Poraton Intelligonce Advisory

board, and has booh: for soro tina, and blal. Colby uas Nox:

chibt at scatlon when she was

arbassador to loaly. This

atra come to me not throughi the papoo, tzonkay. but fion

Mica

Lice porsonsily, excrossing hos

concorn. "1e. sibsegdontl?

did appens in a paper and

not release it.

Nes. buce

apoolfically peteabed it

no batty

loxle, and the roason it is

relevans here: is chae frow what 2. zaad here, Che groug she

¿e retorting co is probably the

proud of

gone part di

the Die ocoup in Now Orloans:

whita

is

not tog

she did nasoclake Me. William Paulay

But Chac

i Se

somewhas confused, beccose you sate:

he wasn"; involved in an

acho: operation othes chan the

ong:

jou nentioned.

Mc. Talkey Well, Xim

" know Fix Faule,

and Mrs, tuad are friends. Whoy we cach other, on chor ased

a haven*e seen

in &

mumbai of dears. bus chay asod to

be in bed said

sociol cfcouie,

in an buce chat We: 90015r

becounted a war acory th his concucts, so sho is probaliza

aware of the generas operacion to dos the two Sovlats que 44.

Cubia, That la the oniy operation chat he raa with us ducin

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 57

HOE SECRET

B

10

Crip

99 A20dk a

Nio Fast Street; Sill Was

3. 4

1.5

16

17

18

19

20

21.

28

23

24

25

xy stevazdeh to as che stations

Sanator Schvelker-othere La a vast dasteranco of zacolico

tion botwion the tha on what bappened. Sha very strongly

_collecta

that in addition to the thing that you described.

which is a natter of rocord, by the day, with the Senato

Committes, Le la a matter of Cornittes record, In addition: to

that, that this is in if also.

Rather chan read the whole thing, you misht read tha

paragrapha 1 have outlined.

she Conta vory strongly ibout ter

She has called me savexal times about

3 ta

she ls absolutely

cartain of hor information, and hor Cuban source doesn't wait.

to talk for fear of his lite,

Whe Witness

reada: the docunent.)

No, that doesn't ting any bolis. I cannot

but that in any contoxt.

Let me go back to this Pauley busineso. S think at one

time, one other thing that padley did for us; i think he

provided an opportunity for us to plok up some cargo da tho

Dominican Republle to provide coves for one of our vessels that

we bore unidg ab that tine foe indiltration operationd in Eno

aied

but those are the onty chings that i can remenber out t

top of my head.

Senacor Schwolker. Xou see, Whore he gaya here: that in

contact with a froup, the story goes on ta say that this

grcup

anpplind a tape ond pictures of that contact, and khi:

TOP SECRET

DoCIdAS24/26455

---

## Page 58

toopz /2:0. "viditi

NWN 39510

2

3

6

110

13

14

15

36

29

20

21

22

23

1214

23

2at did not follow then up which dars esther serlous charge

I coalf, and that fa why I wonderl? there to sone DRE relation

ahip here with Bringules.

Maybe you dan give us that case officesta name

Me. Bolter Which one?

Seynour:

Senator Schmolker.: The Cose officer for the DRa group.

It would have to be the one ac the tine when Davala Wis

is New Orleans, Which 1s - when was thatz

Ma. Johnston. The doll of *63

(Diocuscion che the record.)

Senator Schwetkcr: Going on, I didn'* folion Eha Final

question on bebstada, your Catall man to Customs.

Were you avace that he was doing sone invostigauing

aftor the Kennody accassinationa

Na. Holley.: No, I don't have any firsthand recollection.

01

Sla 6.y.

Senator Scheiker, And the way you were structired, woul

he be the logical person to, 1f somobody askod, for alther a

name check or some-loitow up i

tE: Maller. He would have been the logical person in

something specitic to pixsue or ho would have beor the

Zogical purson to put a question to 16 ne were looking fox:

asnaphorld, you know, what the Cuban community was thinking

Senatos Schweikeri. How about duilo Lobo?

Ms Malley.

he's the sugar kind.

TOP SECRET

Остеша!

---

## Page 59

TOP SECRET

5 6

¿more (Aide 2021

2

S:

6

7

9

Trinit

1)

12

12

15"

15

1.27

on. Da. Ci 20007

12:

Senator Schweiker. No'e che

dugar king thator

Did he ansiot wich any de your opocations, aither finan

cially or ta kerns of has poople of In torro of his orgah,7aux

Maddoy,

My pecotloction of that, there was no dixock

contact between ds and Juild tobo, we did have various

cubion Investigative and zosonrol groupe chas ra vere working.

with, My beliel is that one of these groups must hove been

Lapping tobo for bis knouledgo of the sugar macket, bocause

we were constanald ming projections of there the

sugar crat

was going in Cuba, pocaune that impacted on the stability of t

dubnn occuoay. to our bords, when te wes a coud acop, you

corde figure that Costra'* Joing

ts have x mintons of dollan

Won he didn't have a good cook. this ms doint to logot dir

Where ho wanted to go mich buildina the revolarion.

somear schweiker,

thore te another naire bat i believ

had son colo onchip with him naybe businessuido, shes

Coyswalli de Calall

Mr. Maller coldwolt.: I clit: that woe the follow thrt

was annoyed by the hganey dude sire

Soon Schweikes. Wack Wes Fas prolded de that posed

1222

4I0

24

25

tie was

vich economie socivilios and

hos prosence coris be pus. on t.

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510

DOCId: 32425435

---

## Page 60

TATOP SECRET

5

7.

cuban economi

Senator Schweikes

And hov:

about an Antonio Veciana,

2 Cuban gang?

Me. Halley*

Yeah, I think bets the ovor, one of the

patt

owners is the restaurant lo Man Called Las Violina.

Schator Schwelker: At ohe point he worked for

No. Walley. Could you spott the nate?

Senator Schwalker.

Maybe. I'a. not pronouncing

i tight

20

21

10

ix: Halley: chink chatts tha feltow. who used to

yun the roosaurant called beg Volinas, dnd he waa

Evolved

with a ramber of Cocan exile groups & think he was comedtes

with the socona front of tho Tacobeos, Gus that is oft de.

cop of m head. Nara bave in do a

Senator Solvetker. Did David Phliipe, during yous

conore thort, have any nasigment is Cuba?

Khat was his felationniy at the tino of this poriods

Davad 1b..21p02 Tharts Wood of the Rottred

18:

an toxic ties, and my coralection mog chias loe bag devoteed

20:

2)

22

B3

24

25

clige and he noy have boto indira dn overatione against ir

Cuban embarry in Mexico Ced

I do a little viques do take

an or to escar part.

I Kude We has none cravalete poing don to benito Citi

TOP SECRET

NWE 555L0

Docta: 32425455

---

## Page 61

TOR SECRET

6

9

3 2

and their point of contact requently was Devo Phillips, but.

mast of those fellows wore dealing with propaganda distesbution

But he could well also have worked againat the installation.

At that time he was not the station chief, Me. was:&

secondary figures I goean, at the atation.

Senator Schwalker.

did toward lughes or his orgarization

or Incortoly assiat: you in any operations, and I an going

oxclude fox the nomant. Mr. lahou, who we know Had a very

specific role, excluding the Mahou situation wich diancana

spa

I chink you are fariliar wity i

de. Balley, Yes.

Sonalor Sohwelker. Lo your knoxledge, did Howard lughou,

Incarcel or any of bis color groups or assoolations asstot

ox work wich you la cle ciban aperation?

fo. Halton

wot with the Miant stasioa that 1 au awize

ot.

17

21

22

23

Sonator Schwetker; Well, Tin not talking about -

A0 1allyn

Waal, back here in Hashingion that could buy

214 # Rave no kuweye st see din only tomer to out se

Chee Man context.

Seneor Schwalkor: At one doiat to tine, DrobablY wilde

nos siest ome abondo, there sad to. Colonod Sanuel. Rall.

two millenny picache to the davan abbassy.

coco Chal die cine 3 w0111

ten tad lear

TOP SECRET

NWIA SOS20

DoC1a:32423435

---

## Page 62

: Poone [Area. 2090

matom, DAy 20001

NM 455510

STOP SECRET

59

1

6

1.2

Schator Schwelker+

that role was be playins when you came

aboard?

Me, inlloy, le either cane about the same tine that ?

did or shortly attor i nrrived in

Mand, and he was in fact:

the ambor two follow at the opa lode debcioding conter.

inter-agency debrietng

contes no: up at Opa Locka

The bead

of the conto: was a CIA officer, Mid principa, daputy was

Kale. He was the gonora: administrator of the progiar and ho

supervises the pilitary personnot whe vero on desail ta the

conter, and there wore debriefing people there. tor positive

sculligance, and tet ined

Line soldone who was particuer.

Knoxiodieddi dr lad sons operstional exploitation, thay war

1$

15

17

Senator SchmuikOr

Way no ever dotailod su diA oi voy

hu stectly Any jnsel ligence?

Me. Malloy. No, at chat time ho was an anny DeflovE

weing on a joint projoce that wiente a dorall assignmener

mas dust sostned to sps nocka,

plenator

Schwikary

Puzoly woon lus were with por

20

23

25

Mr Malley sell, a pair aba mayondo, salike wa

wonlt go on overdons. i ties is organization vas scan ki!

I nd 34t001

chat the loser se

Lain menact wont to don do we dosagdod that dar

tix Aida

Ak Was nirved that she deputy of be porter would be i sai

TOP SECRET

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 63

TOP SECRET

1002 went Ailed

officer, Thesotors Kalo: was asolaned to that, he continued

to receive his par, quactors, and other allowance through the

military

establishment,

Sana tox

Schuckket*

what about wer he was at the Havana

enbausy?

you are calling about, I quesa, after he oft the lavera

- 17

20

23

1.4

15

as hands. Marott

18

09

320

21

22

23

8.4

25

No. Mallay X03.

I an talking abous the partoe

44964

forwadd, and as I Focall;

he must have.been. thore up to the

end of ty tonuce there.

I have

forgorcen. when ho loft. have

no knowledge of his notivscies

In Movona: *Ias was beferé ni

he served in Havana, that ho ha

a social Sochainteed of a zunborde the otiscoke

shat i ter

in the station,

bat & had no firsthand

novicedo

Senatar Schwoitex.

jon alious Weler. Brown or Colonel

alchole, the bare mastion, Robert Grown?

setator: vout li have to sive me 80004h402

nore char

Robers scoon.

doche give me anycling,

we other was what.

Colonel xuelals?

toraloe delvoskor:

colondl Nichols, no vas aire at

tovana crusy as some polite to Dia.

Mit*

Malaya 1 would irve no knowledge ot him.

Donator Sonwalkor.

Chi mass group called

Could tankasta,

ag you familiar wich

chat: group?

Me. inadlay, i have boatd the nate.

TOP SECRET

NNW:55510

Doeld: 32423435

---

## Page 64

TOP SECRET

*7

I 0

Sanacoe Schwelker y

And it. was a projoot where two

American pilots: were killod: The store conducted sone para-

military operation.

Mr. Malloy; That docin't ring: a bell, but the Celai

cantosma is a nano that live heata. 1 can*t put it into amy

broader context for you. lt caitainly was not one

of out

operations.

Seracox Schwesket i

That was really my guestion.

Do you recall i was there angone using the nand of

-zyptorane of sishop for yod at any point in time in terme oa

the Cuban operastons, ulthes Moccis bishop or some other

13

18

14

Me, Marlos. Chas Name Goesn' next anythiny ko me.

Sanator Sonneller

Nure le a thatch or d petect.

Doct

this: okutch look Like anvone that mich, hava been assorsa

cubar oporations, vither pro castro of unti-Castro?

Inse Witness Looks at e skacol

Ar. Halloy.

i moan, thuce ds somethin

so the lace shae us talliar, but i can't pat a name ti

Le ax i doonore vive any bello with me i relationshop te

27

14

19

20

21

22

20

25

Scrolor SChinetkory

Sayrous, bow about pos, iny cocollectoo?

1x BalteR:

Is it sapposed to la tubar or an Arericati

Sole cor

Schwrikdx.

I thuth an Acericat, hut trinot e:

TOP SECRET

NWE: 35510

Doc10 32425435

---

## Page 65

TOPISECRET

sai one (sira 2030 8

6

9

10

12

14-

1.6

1,2

18.

19

20

on

that; someone: who did da sone work in the Cuban activitie

supposedly on the anti. Castco side.

He has vecy rogular fontures, no he couts

be almost anybody, rou knox:

And dako: John says, la ia a sort of - he could be famil!

No,

7 wouldnte place. bin with anyone I krow,

Senator Schwalkok: Ga nhoad:

Mix.

dolinaton, Do you recall birector Necose visteing tha

station in early December 0%

mid-Decenber of 19632

Mxx Malley, Mi. MeCond-

made a couple of visica 4o.

Florida, L'n not nure 16 would bo fole to say that he

visited the station. My recolloction de

40de. de he cond. ca

zionida. He was put in tos peoparty that we had, e had

converpatione wich hin out at that propercy, bus he didn't

cono out to the physical plate, that is, our clatton arenase,

and in nost enjos

he vas usually en zoute to or coming

back

frox. donokhere,

Me: Johnston. do: you vodall such a viste in Deconbes ai

13657

22

24

25

1z: Hallar. 3 canto pio le voom to chat cimescano, la

osher tocos, ty nenoty

is doctor suno so diand sovoral timon:

Mc- d91064s

helle let's put de in the cinetrane at

hort person after the woons antioy of Proobdent Kenner:

Ku. Halloy. I Cannoc pue we lano the Cimoicane i ju

All 1 car sell pou to Mecode cane down to Plozidi on

TOP SECRET

NWHHS55L0

D001/d/32423435

---

## Page 66

TOR SECRET

5

6

*7

a ninber of occasions:

You know, 18 you asked no

WhAt your

impression I don't know, merbo three, tour.

R, Johnuton, Do You Escall anyono Cron headquarters

coming down to viait: with you in Decenbes 1903? Again, *his

1s shorely astor the sovassination of Prisidont Kannedy.

Mx Malleys po you have the chronology? Mais Matroy

9

10

Ax, Johnston..

No, dt was ficagerald.

Ne. Halley.

Chay: Nox I don"t, because Marvey persodiaul

whun he

was in usod to como down at the tims of the Orange

mont tal

Harvey"

i do concited

young to r cranyo

Boss game with

I would haw

to say no, i donte,

2%

14

1.5

1 6.

17

10

1:9

20

21

22

Ne: Johnston. Meter lot no Bues Drux up.

Do you know i did you have bay dascussions

wash an nand

faint the headyincours.

4b6lf about che

stinct de. the Assassor:

vrosddone Konnedy on Caban operocions?

He Walley Hoike

il sacrs to m souter. thet these mi

Lara, but leade

cocall the

no princes

25

25

Well be lates won i wallo to tend tor

She was & vory active

varlod.. I was Worklog 14, 13, 16 Jar;

TOP SECRET

NA TH

55510

D001d654423435

---

## Page 67

CC

LIWA

#$5510

CODD 13*9.

2

S

11

16

12

20

22

24

25

TON SECRET

64

a day,

daya a Mock,: and a lot of this is

d: blur to

so whon you day do pou cemember bccono cominar yes, 1 ar

renenber that. Can you put le is a time frame of i to g

Docenber, 20, 1 can't.

Nr, Jolinaton. Can you pus it in the timelzame al shortly

attor the assassination us cha Presidentr

no, Hallay. I can. You know, You asked no, did: anyboda

done down to vloit you in the Decenbor timerame. that's my

¿ ashod youabout who was the chied because

I do cécall goin

to an Orange Bowl game: with Harvay sno your. bes done dowr

Magerald con down a coule of cines, but i donte cannert

has over connu in the chilston timosrones you know?

me Johnator. Do you vocal having discussions winh -

and 1 case is your knowse ke yen n do you socall discusser.

besucer zou and someone fron headquarters about the affect...

President Kennecy', mariation on the Cuban operation?

my sure. that there word

you suow, khote da toe rogram going to do, bow det ases.

Mitri, i contate sharon te los for you:

senion on cn00l soch a discussion with

Dad my Godd

TOP SECRET

8435

---

## Page 68

G

(Anda 2020 364

M:C. 20003:

NOR SECRET

Mx: Johnstol, Do you recall such a discuseton wtch

ME. Ilelms?

4

2

10

1 k

to cons back to the basic point.

I don't focals chis kind of voooitle conversation with a

pactioular indivadoa.. but i an auxe that these kinds at

conversations wust have taken place with somebody fsos Rashan

ton or when

I was up here In Washington.

Me. Mohnston»

Let no show you the cabile. that you: lockud

de provioualy botos, ve wont on th socord, which is WaVE tubit

8330 0г

dovenues 1963, and the copy we have is bareis

legible, the giac of Chas in the lase duborod varageogh

regoris information WiVE outadned on an induridual naned

Rodriquez in Dallas, and dias, I thine

reports, le you was

cord thieut the poor torosing, that Rodrigor was Chought ti

34

Xy quescior boins, Whore woule yoo have botton that

12

Ene monadoe. Le boys read laca 2. AWhttt d. Word have to

go dy and toon kg wine the

man is ood wid laterally

271

222

27.

24

(minussion all the record

TOP SECRET

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 69

TOP SECRET

3

9

10

11

12

13

7: 6

Ne. Halley+

HAVE tences, now, that indicatas to me that y

chatover vos done huce was boded on the matcrial that vag:

passively in the files,

Wadre Uld natocial that was

La our Files.

No. got natextal

that was in these filei tron agent reorking, we got it fron

rofogoe debriaiings, No got it from our, you know, Ezon

din: the: Cuban

community who more xeporting on Cuban

groups, We got ic on a monitoring of the cuban press, and the

Spaniab proso in alani, Me got le From monitoring radio broad-

ND:EU5

a04 59

forth po that de was. this kind of i conglonerte

information.

Now, It's Lake a nano, you know, like lodelgacs. A

none like Rodrigues in the card vile, chore might be two

indice of Rodelatezes

You know, 18 you waze looking lon a

spect fix Rodeiguezy

Carlos Rafael Rodrigue, you know, at

take this, thon you d

have to pist

1e down, in echar vordo,

age, What his memberahlo mos to he party and unloga lixe Skat

Do that Indroatos to no Chat ve found onix material in the

16

19

18

39

20.

21

22.

ino the source de. 1 don*t hur

We"d have. to look in

the cryps vau dans end crus nove and pugbe even tien tea

191) :

#10./1u 57/000: 9K5:

Pa, johnson. Me, cait source 15 Mable to bo a 2a

exile da Mand de lins correnta

ar. Halier, vell, hos boing tole to read the child.

TOP SECRET

NWHO 35L0

DocId S2425435

---

## Page 70

TOP SECRET

63

20601564400

6

7

10

2: 3.

12

1 3

doatE evan want to speculate on if

Mr: Johnston, Did you have sources in Alpha 657

Mr *

dalley, tess do Cincs there hare sources da Aiplia 60:

Johnston, Did sou havo

sourcas is. SNECT

Mi. Malley. As lines, yeo.

2; Johnaton: Dia you have souçces, in the cine pociod"

are talking about, Hovenber 163 Elrough the spring of 19642

Ma, Mallay: Wolle

I would hove to bay the probability

Is high that we had sore dor: of a source

in thos group, bur

I'u have to go back, you know, and check the zecord, and it

sona nave to be rosearchod, but my recolluction to thas is l

.In that group Das way

se another.

its, soles cole.

are you aware ut a cion exile engantasi

oe anti-castro paganiration calted the chriation Denocratte

sevoment, or Must

16

17

18

3.9

Me. Johnaton; Did you havo soutces La MOC?

r. talloy tony we did.

SO, DE. 20043:

21

22

23

20

25

Whe was the louderonig of. Asy

so, hollay. wid che cub oi va bead, no. bue go bac

thare is i boot: ke pus out a boot it kiar sin which ida

FROM NO DIE DA CO MACALE YOU 90

arantely. there vere 2d0 bono-oda exile groupies,. dad we:

TOP SECRET

NW$ :55510

Doc1d:32426435

---

## Page 71

TOP SECRET

Poona (Aris 2020 Mi6000

4

12

dián'l havo all 250 ponotrated, lf you sially vant to know te

A.ộ gựet

to that, wilt have to get the book, look up the dates,

and: key ko see who the loadershis vore.

Ne: Johnston. Does that bock concsir she names of the

Inasarchips

Me, Harter vod

In nost of the cases de contains he

mamas of the major lotares.

Did you have that book at approxinately ci

timeperiod. of Hoverber 163 chrough December 1607

Me Talley.

The look was pus out and

conloed scvers?

times,

I jase have trouble coming ince arecisic dares.

ar. dolmator. i supradiate that Cock.

I undoratana joa

M Mables More da

peed ass of catomation on ind

Chinse dos worny but, and the indy was t for to

anaver yua

15

8400r you to to tarorasion. for know or con Lode it na

LoE

yOu.

15

1.9

Ne. today toolite de door toe

23

did mad detailed we word eation Wave iota

0405, 9/9/19021

TOP SECRET

NAR: 35510

0861d:52423435

---

## Page 72

C 12OC Many Mes ni

NN#: 55520

TOP SECRET

09

6

8

(The Hitness teáus the docunent. l

Ma Talley: No, I don*t. You know, the eryptonyn AMkiaB

cino s bell wich ne.. Ian faciliar with the criptonya.

10rd

spocitically NikRoB 1 16. 1. can*t tell you:

REading the

contents

of this: messane, You know, this is a massage dated

# Deconbes :63, I would say

that we got a nessage In: 690795

waiting vlo she mall Exon sono source in Cuba, and be

SANTA!

chis insornation;

Who he is, what collability ne placed on a pactacular

BOUTON

10

Sir. Johnoton. Was"s what. I askaaly you.

15

13

26

zoll you do dare do, you know, yet the fate, I would fir

wo teacte mo she what the Exie pays.

da. Jorrston. And in connection With the assass ootio

Prosidene donnady, thun you get incoration ties that. yos

Vieved your

resporalbility as what

Ma: Haber:

Esachballe chasiny de to Meadquarters, 14

was the soud mant for maalan together at kinds of dos..

54226

1a. debauton And Analoo ane mastance of this 19u

in Cao teporcing do yes ob caribly seeing Cavali;

25

cieblog, Aric da doe deduction, & come to by nor

tatemanagi i donte nate wak to houd de to this, and

TOP SECRET

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 73

TOP SECRET

2

6

20

1 3

72

16

1.4

1, 5

10

Wit 1

get the file and 1t says that thia was dr Sa messaga

fron a guy in Hordes of nonething, vin Jast coading a message

and deductivo analysis or what 1 Krios Che case to have hrari.

an the cine

Mx*

gohnsion. hall; Chatt a cocrect acaccont of thd

message. is that right?

Me. Halley, Yes, Ta have to go on the basis that we

cocordon mterial. iccucatcty.: Thocefore; by the may this

МС6SANS

is wrichei, by

analysis

I an having io conclude thos

it was

source inside cuba.

sohaixton.

7h00 1 put ke

20l sue question in relati

to 2hils provious testameng abone Labiano sauroda

you were gottend bondages out at dood, you corit

no dotion being kahon koough the sive scotlon to tad

72 C00a

he dolloy. Nov, with a messago like this be is concur

Lor' have co. lock back de vic El2di dud

W140 EX2

Shure att

adational questions, Y0U

know, 1a2e alone these poopie,

9

1201

I could Soone a to go buck to nad tie.

22

42-7

mirand Chit

26

Or it toro sur 100rl1006400 vi diner aucedring oti

TOP SECRET

NW# 735510

Docid/32425455

---

## Page 74

TOP SECRET

2020-T 1204: 20/07 wu/r

1

3

or of receiving that information?

Ni. Molick. I would bave to say because

of the Indisater

on horo, the communication syston was very rollable,

char

chia

message was foceived, bacuuse

that*s what le shows, bud.

personally Bave no tecollection of chin nassage.

Max Johaston, Cond Mnve have nado n concibucion to this

10

11

1.22

Well, again, i have to go baok do cho falu.

it saye cho above is

from a Knuisan deplonate

Chas Chat was Acon & Mexicon diplomos: Featlans.

then shot would decamens wackoe we could have made

those word

Limo xhoy: so is WAVE. Had

rocinated ayonti toxicon and Italan diptonats in Havana

wal cripcome dooon ring any balls with me. dow you tux.

to go back and lock an up. look in che scler and that wait

colt yos whather ve bore touring the yuy or not.

Re connoion: 1x Shot the poly evaluation you could

17

18

20

Sor 1 she monicorind on coon oations said de bar dida

22

224

ke turned twe

near verify an the Flight?

TOP SECRET

NW#* 55510

Bocld 32423435

---

## Page 75

a "s lisa da secre

NW## 55510

10

12

10

20

22

:3/%

TOP SECRET

Me. Rolley:

or what was

the message, how was it sent,

what was the texe of the nossoge..

Senator Schwoiker. Whae wor 200; rolatfonship with a

Group:

called the

Exoo Cuba Committee thai i believe was proam:

chrough the Mulch Corpony heck ta Washingson?

Me. Mallay, Could you give me some additional information

Was this bothel. Laul Bothel, Che

Free Cuba Committee?

Senator Remakkor.

Koli,. again 7 berteve Mes. Luce

chis Committee as voll, und theie wire

Mao du Mixal Motde25

Me. Maldey

Ans us vera westre in one of these Cuboa. -

cenacor Schveikox: doll, I'm out sure.

LE. Maglut Mature

terest.

* don'e hors die thanames.

Mr. Hallor: nolt, the free cobo Conacueo, as such, Wis

cocoonind to me wach at Doesnts escake

* CanOneR.

so. Do focall, son yog have me 404i2a ton were thei

Wade Nato Gore De Bag dee God We Cons A la!

Hate aster power s8 O0 C0wkn4 Cee2k06

He art

etrade could hiara

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 76

TOP SECRET

bootin lade i 900le2

SenatoR

Schwelker,

And there were all kinds of Cuban

Conna tcoes*

NE: Talley. That's night, and therefore, unless there i

a name that goos with it, I have troible drodging it out.

Senator schwolker: 12 right:

1

peant, ald yous vork involve any working calationshia

20

the wallen Conpany In Washington?

Did you use then in any relastonchi, at aili

No. Malloy. No, my krowledge of the hallen Company

doesn't start unted about 1002%

Sanator bohwaiter, Oker, I'll bes sonebody else tamela

Chat.

14

15

16

1.*7

18

29

2S

Now axes the bout Plac for bad tauriccee?

Whale Alril

your programe wat rois o colucionacto forgoeting Devate an

did

you haw nich then ained they doviously had sone fordin

ancelligence catationship?

talley. bode: In otour words, do foll chat that

in orion asion shat voday as interest to cho voc.

Concor Movedaud.

moteone Mak doc Mard 10d2705

a man mens ou chose boxos du out dorm lie ti

TOP SECRET

NW#: 55510

Doeld 32423435

---

## Page 77

10

TOP SECRET

Averloan flight contre lato the United States, and che.

cologees coming is adancity agents as that, identity agents

who mighe be trylos to pondtrace. our

patani licary conns de

one of our collection at operations,

We 4140 vere Locklay it Cuban Intelliquace crtscary wie

were stattoned overseas, In other words, could our debrietir

01 knowledgeable people result da

das idenaltying, doc's Say.

Che

Dãi guy an Mexico Clay de to Madrids we could then:

nouni an oporation on the basia of that to recruit him, to...

maincaln hin in place as & source within the Coban

concorintelligence Apptoast

MANT A

4o the liame you bhow people add done it id i li

19

15

16

in, 7.

2,3

tron t'd like to ark pou for sone advice pet

the recously wors

you just save ds sine madanco.

Da the cocord hell, bow about 2d occadara deo ca)197

My Kosk SachSE Meague Ad 2009T

1

20

2J

Anna was three Did orn

sode quite 24410444444a3y

1xR. 2000041044414

senator Schnocket. Do cret the sage or das at sh

4006 Mr deladoo held toole

li. Talley. I deal kock that they dire, you snowy m

2255

TOP SECRET

NW#

#555L0

Docid 32423435

---

## Page 78

TOP SECRET

7%:

8

kled

án no dxy the ClAx

No, that doesn't ring any baris wich ne.

Sonator Schweiker.

Won there is a Paul Helorefly

Me Mallor: He's i in

Santor Schweiker,

Morida banker. He has

involved 4p

paramilitary di some kind of oporations:

No, balley, Hall, these woce tra phoros.

Paul Retowel!

was levodeod. Ln: the Bay of Figs oporation, In cleanths up sone

couns suas che faulties or on or two of che pilots had who.

excahod twolves in the bag of Pigs.

And 1 would

hava

K44V9t

10

1 ti

is road wich os at the time wien

I was in che alam shatton, and ae providad da cool.

un luo cool marate incarosss, banks, and be nolood by arease

sabe cover coopenlog Ecough whisa de bowght or loaced soo

Ehongs as dock conce ab marines fox boats and dtend iike tr

1 5

: 16

12

183

* 9

216/

wast due care

FisA

pardond contacts its god told bike Koad

20

connie lab pot karen geisan

id aud hor

were comede is a vice president vi

TOP SECRET

NW# 55510

Doeld: 32423435

---

## Page 79

**

NMF65510

TOP SECRET

some 14060: 202/ Bl

1O

1:3

Chat

company.

As a rosale, & traveled excensively in the

business social commmity.

At that point we had one of the

wargo; covers paytotle In: Sonth Haani, und 1 was

a nonber as

I nunbar di civia, and pepple fike Helowell i souts mose

ac dock 2a12

warttos or danera, you Know, de the yache slut

chat

I belonged to or whatover, but officially, in terma at d

business dense; & only reocli talking wild Hetowell twice, i

chink.

Sonitox Schwelkeri

Pala ho look Arching like that.

pictus?

the Withone looks

ap the shorehey

Mr. alloye No.

At chat Lane be adule have bood nuch

heaviet.

14

did you evar discuss the Kennedy are

16

39

78

19

20

21

2R

nuthod with hims

Ne Holler.

No, & soolane nave, I voolante Bosa tale

about thats' My roos locksoz it fhe hind of things Chut i mus

wac Mezovel would have boon the terrai

the purchari of book, the renca? 0d

25

with hia bet got mont cocals wecher you talked

TOP SECRET

Postcase

35

---

## Page 80

TOP SECRET

77

34.01

to Mccone or lotus about a connection betwees the Kennedy

aapassination and the Cubor Ovexation.

Mr. Walley. Mall, you know, some of choe things make

inFerent Adnda di inpace of you. & most, Helowell was in Chry

the county where we were lococad was an important

Figure, No bod i cans not coo esc fion were we were locateill

9.01% 108

ade people dad test banking

with hama and ae forthe

sad true a pood chat actoke out

Are Johnacon.

1. Chaughe that. Nce Heine and Me. Nedone.

would alas noke ad inpcession.

Ar. Malloy. Well. Motore, yes, you knos, i went to sach:

12

1 done cads.

thie to cod blood card bastie cos direre.

Do i ice po coolle but ou does necessarily cocali te

putte at stathose

I've bean involved

1000х 130 Unreli

20

19

mat wast cook Marty

Ler edent.

whales mak out win

I sworn dole do circle we Nee

Agina or tartar

coke dadd dare dressed cole dude. de

24

Juanand ate Too boast Genetian aralatte.

TOP SECRET

NA

755310

Doold: 32423435

---

## Page 81

TOP SECRET

70

Nx, Halley: I don't recali it.

Mr. Johuaton, te is sou donte racull such a discussion?

hardog soch a alscudeion: or you have a cacollection and woui

Peechlection is there wore no discursions:

MI: Malloy. Do, i don's cocal such A discussion. that*;

MadE I've Boid sevoral clines, 1 susumo that buch discussions

cock Wlace: bat frankly, & dontt rocal that.

Senator

Schwarker. All sight, that's all so have.

Wie?

strochate

your cooperation and pout testiny. I do want

t% ask For sons quidance off the record.

1.0

7. 7

now uriclad mccar wus concluded.?

22

16

18

codes a se

DE110045.109-190m

TOP SECRET

NAT:

55 52 0

Docid:32423435

---

