# 157-10004-10270

## Page 1

157-10004-10270

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 09/02/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10270

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

ROBERT MAHEU

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

MAHEU,

ROBERT

OFFICE OF SECURITY

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS.:

-.::

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32202159

Page 1

---

## Page 2

S593E!

SUBJECT:

Robert Mabeu • For

do

In connection wich the ossiela

foreips Head of State 12 1959

office of Securi

was

requosted to render special support

during the los injoles and New York phases of the tour.

According to

Man personnel,

the foreign offic

socially destrous gos

So andrin

a reques tourise ade

controlled sourco ot

risfied visi..

escats:

do pascatarough

Free in order tomassur

On 3 April 1959 Mr. Robort saneu.-

3 Cleared Office

of Security contse:, was asted to

trange a party for the torei

Tofficial as Los Angeles,

Californice Thes vas done by

Min thou throate

317630ut3er29 3

rosinene

50221852.20d

Holy god siguse pac

vously

granted a covess

ISCE

prove tor use by fE

vision.

23015022252

the foreign official

Cat

durias the esurso.of cals

tir

uced

tino sosecond: 81380

POT

the duration of the foreign

Sias

30K

Los,

through 7 A3213

3959, te

and the actreso becesd

It

was indicase.

by a CIA emblo

Sato Cho

the foreigg oi

0 0m

the actress and

stay in Yew Yo%

2510

cases

2hrough

3.

On 13 April 1959 arzangements ole nade to rent the

homo of

Office of Security source,

at Long

Soach, Loag island, for thu period 14 through 13

April 1959.

Bar corbe use rose epasidential nee

133

placantor

eractress and

the

foreten offietal. As the sane tian

the actress

Barclay, I11 Bast

ach Schest

HW 50955

rclat 1o030

nomadon

been

0n 14

2593a ClAte

tO ESPOVED FOR RELEASE 1993

1O00 00 10286

(1XA)

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM UN(P)

DOCId72202U44S SANIIZED

BR003

The publicity touchiag on the

econg

Maoi

a postedus inca, sone pual easy.

lennish background of the actreson

Tanu siais

eaked over

01463

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

the shao days. by

Second

hired chane

reind nasa

four

preparrange:

arrived

3 CS

site

throu

1-8.05

Cy viszted each evening and Fenaired or abou

AfaigSenand the toreign official

Live hours

1o08 beaches to the actress

discussed

C8-9

Secusitsy

at soac Longth mith

tha

sourcos

08

Sac, Speculated coous the

Possible

ersonal tornation that she Son had

boen leakedato the presso Addizionally shes pore toe den

for the toreign offtcial.a

no one on a companiong)

She saudesboryas

to just what gas e

BissemaLIng

to clar

WaDiseid

eT to play

hauster said

the cra

YOU

40-89:050

he actress sa anshe rarested

Bate prososal bue

bediwich hint"

touche par

She becase quite taxen with the foret

Buy moat

official and

Found M13s

torbe Lo

90324S

•5. • All personal contacts by Security

representatives

In this

case

SE1a216

were under alias are lap eu stare, tapestaent

There is no record or indication in any of

Plies in

the

t313

case that involves Robert Maheu by name oi

reference.

1s believed that IT. Mahou was never intro-

duced

to the actress,

and as far as can be deterainei

Benezer

stronted"

for all arrangezzais.

Office of Security

investigation conducted variously fron 25 May through

1l septender 1959 of the actress reflected

-substantive

derogatory intormation regardina

ber

01470

R020

?

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE WARE

NH 50955

Doc1d: 32202159 Page 3

---

