# 176-10036-10086

## Page 1

176-10036-10086

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10086

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE : Views...Possible Coup D'Etat

DATE : 6/15/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 6/62. Box 2

---

## Page 2

MIÉLEGRAM

INt

ORMATION REPORTI

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

wetter

-793

moders, chain infern relation oh. he enter to nie bored pain his promised by o-Elonage. Low. Tile: 18, US.C: Sec.

CLASSIRICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C.-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

- DUNGAN

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/513,973

GILDNER

SUBJECT

VIEWS OF COLONEL TON THAT XUNGKONY TEN

DATE DISTR.

15 JUNE 1962

POSSIBILITY OF A COUP D'ETAI PETERSEN

SCHLES INGEIPRECEDENCE

DIC

DESTROY

TH1202

DATE OF

HONE 1962

INFO.

BELK

ROUTINE

REFERENCES

FILE

IN

PLACE &

VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 JUNE 1962)

DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

SEE BELOW

_ KOMER

RASKIN

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS- 7484

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGSTAREDEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM COLONEL, TON-THAT XUNG.

APPR.

IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT XUNG HOLDS THE VIEWS STATED; HOWEVER, THE CONTENTS OF

THE STATEMENTS ARE CONSIDERED POSSIBLY TRUE.

-

I. COLONEL TON THAT XUNG, COMMANDER OF THE RANGER. COMMAND, DURING A

3 JUNE 1962 LUNCHEON MEETING WITH TON THAI CHU, CHLEF OF PLEIKU PROVINCE, SATD

THAT THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM WERE GETTING TIRED OF THE PRESENT SIFUATION AND

TRAT SOME ACTION WAS GOING TO HE TAKEN TO CHANGE IT. THIS TIME, HOWEVER, THE

PLANS WERE NOT GOING TO BE COMMUNICATED TO THE AMERICANS BECAUSE THE UNITED

STATES, A BASICALLY LAW-ABIDING NATION, IS OPPOSED TO UNLAWFUL ACTS. SINCE A

COUP D'ETAT IS CONSIDERED BY AMERICAN OFFICIALS TO BE AN UNLAWFUL PROCESS, THE

US IS FORCED TO DISCOURAGE SUCH ACTIONS, AND THEREFORE, THE AMERICANS WILL NOT

BE NOTIFIED OF ANY FUTURE ACTIVITY ON THE PART OF THE VIETNAMESE TO UPSET THE

CURRENT REGIME UNTIL THE ACTION IS ACCOMPLISHED.

.C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

CLASSIFICATION, - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

..STATE -

....ARMY/ACSI: NAVY. AIR...SOS

VIF

TELEGRAM

SECDEF

. INSA: NIC USIA | OCI ONE OCR ORR

Exctuded from autonatl

wungrading aup

declasilication

00 DIA'AID

INFORMATION REPORT

XO

TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

CLÄSSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

ParaPon

-CO-N-T -I-D-E-NET-I-A-L': NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS- 3/5139773:

IN ...

PAGE - TWO.

2.

ARPAC PACFLT', PACAF.

FIELD DISSEM. STAIE, ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID CINCPAC

END OF MESSAGE

'. "

ERNADETA

* *.

MEN ON DECIBOZ

2';:

Miries

-27134244D2

•"CLASSIFICATION'-'DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-ALL : *

SIS

MATA

•NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

---

