# 176-10037-10454

## Page 1

176-10037-10454)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

.: 176-10037-10454

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Information Report

DATE : 9/25/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

9/27/62. Box 6.

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 9/22/62-

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

1209i*

1/14

Tit it

contains information

transmission or revelation

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled Iri)

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

CHINA (TAIWAN)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

National Doronse

öf the United. Stales within thö

berion is brobile

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/523,453,

LAOS

TELEGRAM

LooT, Tilo id, U.s.C secr

ULD KITY

SUBJECT

PROPOSED JOINT CHINESE NATIONALIST-

SOUTH VIETNAMESE INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

IN LAOS

DATE DISTR. 25 SEPTEMBER

1962

SMITH-BUNDY

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

-DUNGAN

KAYSEN

DATE OF

INFO.

MID SEPTEMBER 1962

REFERENCES

N-KILDUF?

PLACE &

_SCHLESINGER

DATE ACO.

VIETNAM, SAIGON (21 SEPTEMBER 1962)

TASTOR

APPRAISAL : 2

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 7977_BELK

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS-TENTATTVE E

SOURCE

A HIGH-LEVEL MEMBER (B). OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST DIPLOMATIC MISSIONDESAICON,

WHO IS BELIEVED TO REPORT WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OR APPROVAL OF HIS GOVEMENT.

_RASKIN

- SAUNDERS

- i. IN MID-SEPTEMBER 1962, TRAN KIM TUYEN, CHIEF, PRESIDENTIAL

SECURITY SERVICE, PROPOSED TO HUANG TIEN-MAL, CHIEF OF THE CHINESE

NATIONALIST NATIONAL SECURITY BUREAU INTELLIGENCE STATION IN SAISON,

THAT SOUTH VIETNAM AND NATIONALIST CHINA CONDUCT JOINT INTELLIGENCE

OPERATIONS IN LAOS. TUYEN CLAIMED THAT THE DETERIORATING SITUATION.

IN LAOS, AND THE STRONG POSSIBILITY: THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM

WOULD BREAK RELATIONS WITH LAOS, NECESSITATED IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION

OF. SUCH A PROPOSALO: TUYEN TOLD HUANG THAT HE ENVISIONED THE

ESTABLISHMENT OF NTELLIGENCE: STATIONS: ON THE BORDER BETWEEN LAOS

AND

SOUTH VIETNAM, AS WELL AS IN LAOS, TO SUPPORT JOINI: MISTNAMESE/

NATIONALIST: CHINESE AGENT OPERATIONS.:

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIALI

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP!

Excluded from automaric

dongrading and

declassificatron

ARMY/ACS! NAVY

AIR

JCS

SECDEF

NSA

NIC

AID

USIA, OC.I

ONE

OCR

ORR

0B I

00

STATE/INR

DIA

STATE. DIREC

EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM

1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

• (15-20)

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In).

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/523,453

2. HUANG CONCURRED IN PRINCIPLE, BUT ADVISED TUYEN THAT HE

HAD TO OBTAIN THE APPROVAL OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST GOVERNMENT

BEFORE ENTERING INTO DETAILED NEGOTIATIONS. ON 19 SEPTEMBER HUANG

TELEGRAPHED HIS HEADQUARTERS IN TAIPEI, OUTLINING TUYEN'S. PROPOSAL,

AND REQUESTING EARLY APPROVAL:

3O FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMAGE USOM MAAG

CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF: 9TH. FIELD STATION.

IN

283271

PAGE 2 ;

":.;

•11010r.

•.i.

KV128A

Daritas.

FADE-BLADD

DIAS

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIRCATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

