# 176-10037-10440

## Page 1

176-10037-10440

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10440

RECORD SERIES : Personal Papers of Richard Goodwin

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Information Report Re:

DATE : 9/3/1961

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Goodwin Papers: Cuba, Meetings on Refugees, Box 4. Box 7.

---

## Page 2

22.004. 19. 2.

mosquer

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This and erla!,

contains infarmation affectino

the.transmission.or

relatin the la la mona do an aside Sled oron onion lao Espionagi Lams, THo 18, US.C. Socs.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

NOFORN/CONTINUED

PES MINATION CON

"CONROL

COUNTRY

BRAZIL

CHINA: CUBA

REPORT NO.: TDOS -3/485,732

SUBJECT

DATE DISTR 3 SEPTEMBER 1961

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

OFFER OF .SUPPLIES AND MEN: TO THE

GOVERNOR OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL BY.

THE GOVERNMENTS. OF COMMUNIST CHINA

AND CUBA

WEEKCOF 27 AUGUST 1961

BRAZIL, RIO DE JANEIRO (2 SEPTEMBER 1961)

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

REFERENCES

iN 23204

FIELD REPORT NO: HBR 2529

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS: ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A BRAZILIAN PROFESSOR (c) WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG COMMUNIST STUDENT LEADERS.

-

DURING THE WEEK OF 27 AUGUST PARTY CHAIRMAN MAO TSE TUNG

OF COMMUNIST CHINA AND PREMIER FIDEL CASTRO OF CUBA BOTH OFFERED

MATERIAL SUPPORT, INCLUDING QUOTE VOLUNTEERS UNQUOTE, TO LEONEL

BRIZOLA, GOVERNOR OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL, WHO WAS LEADING THE STRUGGLE

IN BRAZIL TO ASSURE THE SUCCESSION TO THE PRESIDENCY OF VICE

PRESIDENT JOAO GOULART UPON THE RESIGNATION OF PRESIDENT JANIO QUADROS•

BRIZOLA DID NOT ACCEPT THE OFFER, ALTHOUGH HE APPRECIATED THE

MORAL SUPPORT, BECAUSE HE DID NOT WISH TO QUOTE CREATE AN INTERNAT-

IONAL AFFAIR INQUOTE OF BRAZIL'S POLITICAL CRISIS• (FIELD COMMENT&

BRIZOLA OBVIOUSLY WAS AFRAID THAT: IF THE OFFERS WERE ACCEPTED

THE UNITED STATES MIGHT INTERVENE. THE OFFER OF AID BY CASTRO LEAKED

SECRET

NO DAN CONTINUED CONTROL"

"ARMY/ACSI NAVYi

NSA. NIC: USIA: OC!/ ONE:

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

EXQUIEBI

TREASURY

TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SE-C-R-E-T:

NOFORN GONINULO CONTROL

TDCS -3/485,732

IN 23204

PAGE

.2

TO THE PRESS; THAT OF MÃO DID NOT).

20

2a FIELD DISSEM: STATE, FBI,

ARMY, NAVY, AIR, CINCARIB. CiNCLANT

•END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

CLASSIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONT: OLS

NOFORA/CONTINUED CONTROL

---

