# 176-10038-10032

## Page 1

176-10038-10032

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10038-10032

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Embtel 660 (Saigon) Re: Task Force on Vietnam

DATE : 11/16/1961

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

• DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : NSF: Countries: Vietnam, General, 11/16/61-11/17/61, box 195. Box 8

---

## Page 2

INCOMING TELEGRAM

Department of Stare

SANITIZEO VERSIO

N4X-75-92

3

SECRETs

43

Action

FE

Info

SS

G

SP

L

H

•SO

EUR

AID

PX

IOP

INR

CIA

OSD

ARMY

AIR

NAVY

A

DC

RMR

Control:

Rec'd:

9439

NOV

16, 1961

3:50

"a.m.

E1.8

-FROM:

SAIGON

TO:

NO:

Secretary of State

660, NOVEMBER 416, 11: AM:

019

¿ACTION DEPARTMENT: 668, INFORMATION CINCPAC POLAD 268

LIMIT DISTRIBUTIONDE

TASK FORCE VN

HLOB 1W1R6ИV 2LC0b144 2584114

SL. OPPORTUNITIES FOR 1EXPLOITATION: OF:NEW MANAGEMENT.OF NÄT-TONAL

•POLICEL AND SECURITYISERVEGEE (COLONEL NGUYEN-VAN-Y VICE GENERAL

NGUYEN VAN LA) EFALL INTO TWO/GENERÄL FIELDS, INTELLIGENCE AND

NATIONAL/POLICE: BOTH CASEAND USOM HAVE FOR CONSIDERABLE -TIME"

BEEN STYMIED BUT WITH CHANGE BELIEVE REAL PROGRESS CAN'BE

MADE.: THIS WILL REQUIRE WORKING OUT OF DETAILED PROGRAMS FOR

ADDITIONAL LASS ISTANCE),: TRAINING, ETC.,

AND ADDITIONAL U.S.

PERSONNEL'FOR NECESSARY: ELAISON AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT!

¿ZINGCAS: HAS TALREADY PROPOSED: TO TS HEÄDQUÄRTERS DEVELOPMÈNT- •OF

NATIONAL COMMUNIST PARTY. PENETRATION SERVICE, TO SERVE AS

"SPECIAL: BRANCH" OF SURETE, WHOSE CHARTER AT. PRESENT CÖVERS

BOTH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES AND ORDINARY INVESTIGATIONS:

ITHIS. "SPECHAL BRANGH! WOULD HAVE REPRESENTATIVES AT PROVINCE

LEVEL'S TAND; BE MANAGED THROUGH REGIONAL DIRECTORATES. AT EACH

REGIONAL DIRECTORATE; CAS WOULD. PROPOSE ASSIGN AT LEAST ONE:

CAS OFFICER TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON AND COLLABORATION.

CONCERT WOULDBE FULL WNTEGRATION HIS EFFORT INTO

VIETNAMESE EFFORT. THIS WOULD: REQÜIRE FOLLOWING CAS COMMITMENT:

A: CAS OFFICERS: FOR :DIRECTORATES i AT HUE, NHA TRANG, BAN ME

THUOT, BIEN HOA, SAIGON/CHOLON, AND CAN THO, AS WELL AS ALREADY

350024

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

SECRET.

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

---

## Page 3

23

FIS

÷ 3.

3

121900

SECRET

70141"

?!

-2- 66D, NOVEMBER 16, :11 AM, FROM SAIGON :: "÷

EXISTING PERSONNEL FOR LIAISON AT. NATIONAL LEVEL. PERSONNEL*

WOULD BE SUPPORTED BY NECESSARY INTERPRETERS, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.

B. PROVISION OF. INTELLIGENCE AND COMMUNIST: PARTY PENETRATION

TRAINING TO VIETNAMESE OFFICER PERSONNEL OF NEW SPECIAL BRANCH,

TAKEN FROM EXPERIENCED SURETE OFFICERS.

C. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO GIVE PROVINCIAL SPECIAL BRANCH i

OF,FI CERS FUNDS TO: OPERATE AGENT: NETWORKS IN. PROVINCES.

EXACT. SUM NOT. YET: DETERMINED BUT WILL BE" SEEN TO BE SUBSTANTIAL

BY MULTIPLYING NUMBER OF . PROVINCES (38) BY REASONABLE MONTHLY

SUM: FOR"E ACHOPROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVE TÖ ENABLE HIM-HIRE

AGENTS AND PAYE OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES! NOONGPSE

1*}

MOE: 1419.M006 BEỐISE 14061

?3!

3= USOM EQUALLY DETERMINED PROSECUTE: POTENT L'AL-FOR* GREATER

COLLABORATION FOR DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONÄL-POLICE? STRUCTURE WITH

REGULAR INVESTIGATORY FUNCTIONS OF SURETERSTO PROVIDENS/CE MED

ENEORCEMENT MECHANISMPON EFFECTIVE NATIONALUBÄSIS TO BÖLSTER-L*7!

GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY= THROUGHOUT COUNTRY, AND THUS CONTRIBUTESME"

TO CONTRBUTION CRIME -- DISORDER, OVERT COMMUNIST ACTION, ETC.

THIS WOULD: COMPRISE OVER-ALL DEVELOPMENT USOM POLICE, SURETE AND

RELATED INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICES TO INCLUDE:

CONSOLIDATION: OF CIVIL POLICE FUNCTIONS UNDER THE SECRETARY

OF: STATE FOR: INTERIOR.

BrA DELINEATION. OFFUNCTIONS AS THEY: PERTAIN TORTHE SEPARATE

ELEMENTS OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.

CHE THE ADOPTION COF A REALISTIC TRAINING PROGRAM, GEARED

TO AN APPROPRIATE PROGRAM OF COMMODITY PROCUREMENT:

SCIA,3102

247.

"THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN EFFECTIVE PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICE:

USOM ENVASIONS DEVELOPMENT BASED UPON MUTUAL AGREEMENT AND

UPON RECIPIENTS'S ABILITY TO ABSORB INTRODUCTION OF NEW

CONCEPTS

Mosa

4. THIS BEING MADE TASK FORCE MATTER DUE MY CONVICTION IT IS

SUBSTANTIAL WE_MOVE-FORWARD-IN BOTH ABOVE FIELDS TO MAXIMUM

DEGREE POSSIBLE,

TAKING. FULL ADVANTAGE OF

WHAT APPARENTLY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

-3 - 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAIGON.

1S REAL NEW BREAK IN SITUATION. URGE FULLEST SUPPORT FROM TASK

FORCE LEVEL AND ABOVE OF THESE SUGGESTIONS FOR ACTIVITY BY

CAS AND USOM, ÄND SUPPORT IN WASHINGTON FOR NECESSARY PERSONNEL

AND BUDGET ADDITIONS WHICH MAY BE INVOLVED.

NOLT ING

MM

SECRET

---

