# 176-10036-10135

## Page 1

176-10036-10135

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10135

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE: 10/4/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

• DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGKA

MIM ERMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE SCENEY

This

material icoritaias "information

aftecting

the National Defense of the

United States

799 and 799; the transmission

revelation

which

in any manner to an unauthorized person

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

10. U.S.C

Socs.

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

PLANNED

SUICIDE OF AMBASSADOR

BUU HOL'S MOTHER, DIEU HUE

DATE DISTR.

TDOS - 3/560,871

4 OCTOBER 1963

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

3 OCTOBER 1963

REFERENCES

IN 32958

VIETNAM, SAIGON

• (3 OCTOBER 1963)

SOURCE

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO.

FVS 9731.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL dE CONTENIIS TENTATIVE

A VIETNAMESE BUSINESSMAN (F) WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG BUDDHISTS.

-..

APPR: EARLIER ALLEGED INTENTIONS OF DIEU HUE TO COMMIT SUICIDE.IN SUPPORT OF

THE BUDDHIST CAUSE WERE WIDELY PUBLICIZED. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SHE

MIGHT DO 50.:

•!.

1. BY 3 OCTOBER 1963 THE BUDDHIST NUN, DIEU HUE, MÖTHER OF

BUU HOI, VIETNAMESE SCIENTIST, AMBASSADOR TO SEVERAL AFRICAN

COUNTRIES AND CURRENTLY THE GOVERNMNT OF VITNAM (GVN) OBSERVER

AT THE UNITED NATIONS (UN), AD DECIDED TO COMMIT SUICIDE, PROBABLY

ON 5 OCTOBER. THREATWAS TIMED FOR IMPACT ON THE UN BUT WAS: NOT

TO BE BY BURNING.

2. DIEU HUE HAD PREPARED A LETTER DENOUNCING HER. SON AND:.

CLIMING THAT BUDDHISM WAS STILL BEING PERSECUTED IN: VIETNAM,

COPIES OF WHICH WERE TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO THEYFORIEGN PRESS AND

TO THE "CLANDESTINE" OPPOSITION BY HER COMPANION AND: ATTENDANT

CONFIDENTIAL

CLA

U

— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

FURTION DISSE

SECDEF

A10 1

GROUP I

Enctuded Irom automati

downgradig and

destosslicarron

TE INR

DIA.

ARMY/ACSI MAVY

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

00

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT

IMMEDIATE TO: : STATE (RCI) (FOR HUGHES:

PLS PASS TO MR.. HILSMAN)

TELEGRAM

FORM

4-63

1KG OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONE,

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENNAL

(WHEN FILLED IN

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

TDCS - 3/560,871

12fa

IN

32958

PAGE

2

YOUNGER NUN...

3. JUST PRIOR TO THE SUICIDE, THE COMPANION PLANNED. TO

DELIVER A COPY OF THE LETTER TO THE: U..S. EMBASSY: FOR AMBASSADOR

LODGE AND TO SEEK ASYLUM THERE. SHE BELIVED HER LIFE WOULD BE

• IN DÄNGER AS THE GVN WOULD KNOW THAT ONLY SHE COULD HAVE DISTRIBUTED:

THE LETTER.

: 4. THICH THIEN HOA, PRESIDENT OF THE PRO-GVN UNION COMMITTEE

FOR THE DEFENSE OF PURE BUDDHISM AND MOST OF THE OTHER MONKS AND:

NUNS AT: THE AN QUANG. PAGODA, WHERE DIEU HUE AND HER COMPANION:

RESIDE, WERE UNAWARE OF THE SUICIDE PLAN.

5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV. MAAG USOM

• USIS 9TH FLD. STA: 2ND AIR DIV. CINGPAC PAÇFLT ARPAC PAÇAF.

CONFIDENTIAL

(WHEN FILLED IN)

FORM IK-I:

1.63

: USE PREVIOUS: "

• EDITIONS

5.7

END OF MESSAGE

LASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

INUATION. OF TDCS INFORMATION REPOT

MFG.. 2-63

(15-20-44-47) .

---

