# 176-10036-10095

## Page 1

176-10036-10095

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM.

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10095

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE: 4/22/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

-ITE

TELEGRAM INFURMATION REPE.&F

79) and

and erie

contains information aflecting

transmission

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CENTRÄL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

within the

• on unauthorzed

garon, le

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ARBOAD

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/654,285

INDICATIONS OF GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM

DATE DISTR. 22 APRIL 1963

PLAN TO REQUEST REDUCTION OF AMERICAN

PERSONNEL IN VIETNAM

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

MID-APRIL 1963

REFERENCES

IN22329

INFO.

PLACE &

VIETNAM, SAIGON (18 APRIL 1963)

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8806

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (F), WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS AT THE PRESIDENCY.

APPR

IT IS POSSIBLY TRUE THAT BOTH DIEM AND NHU HAVE BÉCOME AT LEAST PARTIALLY UPSET

OVER CERTAIN AMERICAN ACTIVITIES IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND OVER THE LARGE NUMBER OF

-

AMERICAN PERSONNEL CURRENTLY IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

..1. BY MID-APRIL 1963 A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF TENSION HAD

DEVELOPED BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF. VIETNAM AND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT

•OVER OPERATIONS IN SOUTH VIETNAM. BOTH DIEM AND NGO DINH NHU WERE

CONCERNED OVER RECENT "INFRINGEMENTS" OF VIETNAMESE

SOVEREIGNTY.

MAAG WAS CITED AS A VIOLATOR' IN THIS CONNECTION, BUT THE U.S.

SPECIAL FORCES WERE SINGLED OUT. AS THE MAIN IRRITANT. DIEM IS

ALLOWING ADDITIONAL TIME FOR FURTHER BLUNDERS AND, AFTER BUILDING

UP A STRONG CASE, HE PLANS TO CONFRONT AMBASSADOR NOLTING AND

USMACV CHIEF GENERAL HARKINS WITH IRREFUTABLE EVIDENCE OF U.S.

RESPONSIBILITY, DEMANDING A REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF U.S.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP I

SECRET

Eastudod Iron outamon

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY /NO DISSEM

dovengradies and

declormforalon

ABROAD

STATE/INR

DIÀ ARMY/ACSO NAVY AIR

XXX XXX

NIX ENO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

SANITIZED t24: 01-197-6-613%15

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(When Filled Its)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO

DISSEM ABROAD

TDCS DB-3/654,285

PERSONNEL IN SOUTH VIETNAM ON THE BASIS THAT THE FORCE IS TOO

LARGE AND UNMANAGEABLE:

2. SOME VIEIVAMESE INVOLVED IN CLOSE WORKING RELATIONSHIPS

WITH AMERICANS WERE BEING QUESTIONED IN DETAIL BY PRESIDENCY

STAFF MEMBERS AS TO U.S: ACTIVITIES. SOME OF THE INDIVIDUALS

QUESTIONED HAD INDICATED. TO THE PRESIDENCY THAT THE U.S. MILITARY,

AND PARTICULARLY THE U.S. SPECIAL FORCES, ALTHOUGH GENERALLY

WELL. MOTIVATED, DID NOT SEEM TO UNDERSTAND THE NECESSITY FOR

COORDINATING THEIR ACTIVITIES WITH APPROPRIATE VIETNAMESE

AUTHORITIES.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR NOTING), USMACY

(GENERAL HARKINS), MAAG (GENERAL TIMMES), CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC

PACAF.

1022329

0A08

2

END OF MESSAGE.

SECRET

CLASSIFIÇATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY /NO DISSEM ABROAD

---

