# 176-10030-10422

## Page 1

176-10030-10422

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10030-10422

RECORD SERIES : Sorensen Papers

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM : Schlesinger, Jr.

TO : President Kennedy

TITLE : Memo to President CIA Reorganization

DATE : 6/30/1961

PAGES : 15

SUBJECTS : CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : Memoranda

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 8/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Sorensen Papers: Classified Subject Files 1961-64 Box 47, CIA,

Document 1a.

NH 49061 DocId: 32622644

Page

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SEE SANITIZED

VERSION

144-84-149

ARRBIC.C. 9/02

.la

Jano 30, 1961

TO THE DETERIORATION

MIMGHANDUM FL. THE PRESIDENT

SUIJECT: CLA ASUSgARiJalIOn

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY, L

OF.. THEORIGI

NALS

I submit the following viewa as une uno moriod is OSS durtag pho

was and served as a periodic CLA condultant in tha yoara disco.

Un kalance, CLA's record has probably boas very good. in the

nature ul clandestine aparations, the islumpha al as latelligence

agency ard unknown; all the pablic bears about los abould bear

about) are 118911059. PUBi Agala la laA Dastro al tbe Caso, an

agency dedicated to clandestine activtsy can afford damsed low

visible orrors.: The important tulag to recogaleo today, la my

judgment, lo thai the CIA, so di presens semad and constlistad, bas

about uned up lis quore, sl maTElA los future ostor la practiça'ly.

Cho Fause CLA debacle will abake laita considerabl;

in l'S palicy, at bome do wall an abroad. And, until ClA lo visibly

reorganised, is will las la tbe Algeries instanca) be widoly blarned sor

doralopments of which is le whally lasocese

The argumen of this mersorandum la that ClA'a troablo cari be traced

to the autonomy wita walch the agancy has beon parinitted to oporate

the relationablp beeween oporallona and polley, (3) ea Insidoquare.

our should be no a groas and repented CLA Calling bes boss is

occaslocal readiness lo muccumb to the ramprations el lavorable

pablicity: Tho Cuatemalan and Iranies operations voro almont

sultsled by the load a sellicongratulatory pablletty which followed

them (o.1, che artieles by Richerd and Gladys Harkness.

•"Baturday Evealng Port, veL 30,

13, 1954). 30

SOREN

NH 19061 DocId: 32622644: Padé 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNED LIBRARY QUE TO THE DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINALS

conceptlos of the faintionship betteen operadors and Intelligance..

Too memorandun also suggents maya la malea seras al thase prob-

loras cas perbapa be illeviatod

L CLA AURODONTY

cacecollection; conart political oporationas and peremilitar

activitios.

¿ CarTi"s i those lanciland wilh rolatino autonom!

The reasong for the sutonomy are biatorleal.

Vibon ClA bogas, tar Seste Department, still thinklag too such inn

terras d its traditienal missions in foreiga alfalTe, loakod on lalo

now venture with ausplelos and rescunced the appertantly to seize

'sm control ol CIA agorationa. I did sol, los exatiple, try u

establiah any ellectira systora ol clearance los CLA activitos: and

some ambassadors irankly prelessed nol to taore uhas CLA maa up lo

la thair constrico. Altor 1953 tho lact lhas the Secretary el Sezte and

Rao Directer of Central Itolligence were brothern further cooliezed

CLA's indopendence rom dupervicion by State Department dealer.

la tho moantime. CLA grow ta sine and pores, Daring tha fiftles le

bapia in somo areas to cutotrip lhe Stara Departmene in the goalley el

les personnsl...: Partly bacture CIA pald bigher palertes and oven

noro parhaps becausa Alles Dulles sara bla people contageone pro-.

laction agalual sic Carthylto airacka, CIA Mes ablo to astreet and bald

a lar so numbor ol abio and tadopendent estatad mos, The moro is...

added Drilliant cotiVlets Do the salt, the maco moronatura tie operatta.

densiopod, and tha greatos tale il played la tho lattleton el podíey..

overt diplamzess contact.

SEGMET

NH 49061 DocId:32622644 Page 3

---

## Page 4

(PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY,

LTERARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

DF. THE DRIGINAL."

%.

SECRET:

. То

j'or its part, CLA bad doveloped a ubala nortos al fusetlone paral-

laliag alroady existing functiono ol the Stato Departmanil, dod al

tha Lielense: Loperti sat 8a well. Today ll bas 11e ous politicai

dosks and military mala; la has in alloer lis ona lapelga servico:

11 has (or bes had) lia orn camber forced. ¡ oren bao the our als

Ds aunnel indget lo about -

simes thas al lso Stato Depart-

ment. The contemporary ClA possestos many al the characrosintica

al a state within a sizza.

Il Doctrise

Theugh CLA's autonu: sy developed los biolarteal reasona, ll has boen

able to endure bocaura there is so doctrine goveralng our conduci al

clandestine operatione.

Tie probiana ol doertine for ClA to tbe extent

so which ils various clandestine miasions ase compollala mith a free

and opas society.

" ls idle to arguo this, bacause the Communists cas do such-and-sech.

Ma ATO fIBO to do 1l 100. Colamunlala la sereed nurtured la cor.

spiracyi and tha whole poles al Communior social and palitical or gail.

sation lo to male courpiracy alloctine, ll Elgattag tire oes Are' meara

contrnesing the freciome traditionally enjoyed by Amerleans la ordar

lo giTa more irsado" lo ClA, so one serlonely tabas to do last.

Yet

I do not feel that us betra isled rigor onaly lo tatat throaga the limits

which the malasarance ol da open society places as secret settrity.

l'ntil thie la dano, (IA'a role will sor ba clearly dolinod and usder .

aroad tho probles which mue be. laced das more some of aneros.

activity la casalatant with the provervasion of a fres social orderi

We mues bogis, l belloro, Dy accepring the lect thas the Untred stases

will continue to ba a sation la which politicians will net questions asid

make speechos, saportere mill dig our eastor, semapapare will pub-

lah editorials, Individualo, drives by promptlago of consclesco, mil

blurs out estags barratal to lha paro, and do oa. Ve do sos Men to

bango these chiage end could sol do no iithout rolettag the visane

of our society..:

Thess thinge mere up the framerort la vibies CLA

годі орававе.

Is abort, shay constitato the problama; eod, no

General Marshall used la 88y, "Thero's no polas in tightlag the

problera.

SECRET

Usda

---

## Page 5

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNÈDY

BRARY QUE TO THE- DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINAL.

SECRETI

la

T'hora fallows frOm 1118, I would think, toe coscluatos luar pecset

astiuliles aro permiiasible so lan8 na tany do sos conrupe tbe

priaciplas

and pragticos ofious poclasy. and thas

149y canes to be

posmlasibla shea tbais elfact ia lo cortumi thace príncipled da.

PIRCBICAS.

Liach form of secre: setivity presasta lls ous problom. Clandestlus

totalligence collecilaii bao been a ersdltional fanelton al lha pastanal

Is rajos and Usagos are lairly wall entabllabod, ln lhe

main, asplonage, ll condacted with diacretion, sboald predent su.

grcat probiem..

Howoves, whos conducred wilh as opes ebockbouks

and a brard mandast. ovan esplonago cas begla lo pura againer ir6

limira of sectet Betitity ln an open society, l cansides later, tu!

example, lbo questiva al the Conisalled AnerleRs 5005c0 (CAS) sind.

wbethos the orerdoinz el CAS 18 Dol beglandaz do basIa otbos dr: 88i

ol the sovarasent.

Covert palitical apersliona ararant a tricklos probilons Oceasiona

or ae tate a la dere eoy o od liao sorepafor o, pol tcleeal ti.

ergadlsadlons la aher cotmaloo.

ol anothor natlos lo nos s rampenalbllity to be lightly aesumad

mandor wanrhor. (LA bas sol dona too much al tale for tna foy of i8.

Paramilitary activilics eseate dn mues naco difflealt problems, 1l

only Docauso the problezas ol conconlznant ato sa mach mara dilldcalt.

lo general, 1 uould sufgart thas any paçres operetles uhone nuscars io

dopencoss os le nupprossion al soma, on lytag lo Conyraneraoa dad

joursallera asd on the decaptlon el tha eloctareto abonid ba uadertaba:

only orhos lha esiais ln so co noldarablo thas tha falze peally noasa to

outorolgli che dlesdvantagoa, Thia paggarto thas tbe atea ol lhe pro-

porod aporasion may ba el crucial importzace, Smail oparatione can

eta vie ilty e aint apar el a sa paoro o rocodo opatl roaos.

sbe prtire e bopeloe end den ia de veda l i tar a eocieche ntal

casa ba mado sor tha sacesstty.

La hore arene operoated et herglly e eile ia omaet nse el

murs snl mbothor ite pacsono roguirãs ous opes pontety lo be la do

partouo way faioe lo 1la ours pritaciplos.

...

MW ЛONEI

narita

Damp 5

---

## Page 6

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNÈDY LIBRARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

OF THE ORIGINAL.

SECRET

. T

l1 Coorations amo

Clasdosts activille aboela bo sadensed sor aaly la too castest

al their raistloanalp so ls opes society bus ales to the enosesa d thai.

relationahip to Usiloi itaos forolga policy.

CLA sporations save de been hold affecttuely rabardinate to U.s.

fareiga policy.

1. Clandestina stalligeace callection de, by chartes, tree iron.

Stare lapertinent contral.

This leet exposor Amartea foralga policy

to a muitituds al ambassadasestn upon CLA la disconored rectaltin$

agents or developing sources in a friendly constry. The recent

Singapore caso, ubEn CIA, vilhort solice to tha Contral General,

trior to nubrari & saamber el tha Special Branch el the Sisgaporo

Police providos as lastructive exampio, Astor conspllcatione el

judlerong complesity, Inciating as apocape to dobfoes tha rectadt to

& HA-681060S RONL. lI INFADd out thaI tha secTutE had lony sloGa

Iniormed bia superiors ol tan CLA approact and uas Lendlag CLA

15to 8 129p which, wilts apring, prodacad considorable emberzees.

mant to relations batores the US and the SlayApora gonorsnant.

Iboro have boon trombles ol s'carparable port la Fallotes and la

JapRs (ubOre a 170UA al CAlzoRa Mallonala mero sealeled lato Senoby

10 mort In A CLA-NSA operation).

CLA ben said that, in such cages, setthor the Embaday Don tha Depa

ment la Waablagios la sorraally lalarIad el lala typo el operation.

la abort, so one trot bor Iany porsarial probleman los 88 foreign

polley - and hor sauch potostial Inletion vies islendly statos a are

bolag eranted as the sarsene by CIA clandontias totalll pusso opazations.

Surely ibero la an asguness los parratttlag stato lo doctle uberhas tho

issolligenco operatons should plaialy de cleared bath uits lha Depart-

most al Stato and (saro los escaptlonal inetances and on reconsors ol

Rhe Secretary of Slata) with the local U.S. Arabessador,

BACHEL

• Pane.

---

## Page 7

SECRET:

• 1a

2. Coveri pallesial eperaziona rachalcally regulro stato

Dopartmont cleargaci.

•la prOclice, bATANeT, ClA bas etcen been

•ablo to seiso the inicistivo la maya unica reduca Staso'a sole alsoes

Do that of a rubbos din y.

Toda las been parely le cónsaquenca a sho suportos detre asa

activism of CLA pertunel, espacially su compared dita lua dlflicler.sie.

o Stato LiApartIcare Destornel.

Tos examplo, Tbos mes corre to Cil

wish tho andigament ui developing conart soliticel campalgao or

orgarilsirg conps os propaziry for paramllitary masíase, tora mes

THE KENNEDY LIBRARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

satorally tall to mork with irgeacity and soel; lbery probably lond that

they ara net astnlag their pay miode, asy, thay ergastas so many

coupe no pussible, The concopt al 'costiagansy plasnlag' bas

logitimatiani tho corcrete preparazion al operatiosa atlll presasiabi;

in a hypetbetical stago; poople did not al ilsot sotice lhas 'condlagency

planaing,' whos carried to the arago ol recrultment and tratalag oi

porsonal, creaton a verted Interost ubica often trasilarzas cocain-

sescien into apparans necassiltos. Thia, lí a group la aarambled

and roured up os a contingancy beata, than the lailusa la casty lue

profoct chrough (18 la. 8s gued) will levito the disappointment dod

alienation al tho group; no the prosauro increados to folion ibrougà

os uhat bee started si a pare apocalation: Talo mao a ceistral lastar.

OF THE ORIGINAL

ol courto, in lhe Cuban desdalos -- lha lart lass dilabradrent ol the

Cuban forte la Gustatsala just seamal lo erreta ton many problemas and

reviag enserod tora relaslona utts porsopalitico la

foralga Lando, CLA bas somelivies restral lo leel thAs te sanet EbOrO -

aftos do protty nach that they mant ar elen thay will blon soeurity

os evea so oves to the Commanieta, This approseh bas mede se o

OCERatos tiR: priDARaTA ol OUI Dus agOnta. a

(PHOTOCOPIED BY

alte becoma piloonass al dur agosto la sancher esaro t0o.

The Cutai.

"pisada loaras iDo etrusg improduSos luAR CIA la sAs Ablo LO EDaiTUl iIn

on lon-loval oporativea. ¡billo the ClA people is lieablagien are iras

ol exceptonally higk quillty, le mes etcraciad to thald jobe ana dorie

Elos lougà and ones vielova pouplo motivesad by delves el ibais asu

and sut necesaarily la paltticel or oven morel sympathy ulls de purpuent

of the aporattos.

Sach artlons ad locking up the herperlonary Courcli,

anch esterpriada 88. Opasation 10 la bieni thero ClA agente toportaca

trained Cabens is metbodo al torturo, noch vileadas no the detention ind

Jo os under CLA apantoratip olla viica CLA tn Waehlsetos le oniy dily

argustorad

I 19061 DocId: 32622644 Page. 7

---

## Page 8

la

7. ..

¡ bas treen t00 the ne state Department, attra epprlead of do

operazion only in its ales staged, 18 asier greas pressero lo

assasse tho aperallo, se already moasted beesuse al the alleged

tril consequences a exercialag a rota. I mall remembor Tem

lians's romark pbe say lbe dacialon ves mado to go aboad on Caba:

"I mould never have invosed intrieslag this operaton, but, alace it

has gone an las as ll has, I do not lhink to cas riat calliag i8 olf."

MOIROTAT, Al & tiTA MORa RATe lA LACTORAiRE PrOMiNA Da RCTiTiOI...

Stara, when it quart usa CLA operations os intulatives, cases ilsell in

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNÈDY LIBRARY DUE TO THE DETERIORATION

a priasy, slasy, nojutivo solo. The adrocato ol clandertise sclivities

somo 'tough' and roulisties she oppasant bes to lavate such intangibles

no the repotatien of lisa United Stazos; world pablte eplaias, "What

do De Ray in lhe laisod Nations?", ere., and soemo bopelaraly

Idealinte, logallatte and 'sotl.'

Tha result ol ClA's inliattoo la conest pollical operasions dos beea

so erasis altuasions aldch bave forced policy on the stato Departsvat.

This vas not the of:;lal idea babiod CIA. la Alles Dalles uroto

¿a blo 1947 memorardus lo the Saaste Armad Services Caramitt. e.

"Toe Central Incalligenco Agenty abould beve nothing to do with palis;.

OF THE ORIGINAL.

Joe, la the yeara alaco, CLA bao, is allace, 'mado' polley la sany

parts al lha morid. A sumaber ol gonorarente elll la poinas know

last they bare even tren largels of CIA attorapes al overthrom not

a 82at0 el endad calcunted to stinialato istsaly lonidage torero tha

Unitod Stalas. Isdossela, al coasso, la a prison esamplo..

Ibs exporience suggests thas the prosess syrter by ubles ClA Dotlfie:

Stato el a projacied covari opazatios la Ladaquata la protect US

1aR35R88R.

Those salt ba some menco by moles state cas da infartiad

al queb aparations at as rasly onongo asga to allert the conception

and prelizalnary planning ol the operallas, Othereiss CIA will con-

¡ave lo contraal Stato with propoattiona havlaz podential lospact an

forsiga policy bus at ton lata a polas to subjoes thes impact to reason-

able carerut.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIRARY DUE TO

OF THE ORIGINAL

THE DETERIORATION

1ehe olbor 2200 are sinourably andor. mllltary os altar sera-Stato

afficial covos).

Or: doally the uno al Stata Dopartment comer 10s

Els personDel usa sippored lo te serlally linisad and temporary.

The Dallod-Corras-: seiron report stasod la 1948, "Tho CLA abouli

so une 3eato Dajattrient covar as a disaplo annures do all 1la problen:a.

bus should proceed le develop its oms ontoldo covos and eventually in

this way and througi: lacreared ellelarcy ol l18 omezeras personnel,

¡lad a may to lampe: ¡s dariands upon the Stase Dopartoesl." Ma-

tedorE (lA bas dimailly locredond ito regulaitiona for ettleial contr.

There are soveral inasona usy ClA has abandonod ile origioal iatonii...

@dercioning syatoris dá privaso comes. I la canlor lo arrange ca:c:

Inrugi state; il is jesa ergersiver la la quicker, 1l facilitates ici.

acurity « operatious s8 dell as d communicalona: it inDures a

piCaBaRtOr lia for ine ClA poople. Bul tuo effett le lo farlbes ste

(Il ancrcachrest on the treditional functiono ol stalo.

in como missione, I understend, LAS persoanal outuumbess regular

Stato Deparimess per santad.

la tha Amastons Erbasay is Yirone.

0ut of 20 persona llosad la tha Ottober 1960 Eosalga Sarico LÍNi. DA

belag la tho Political Sectios, 16.aJ0 CAS persosseli of lae 31 oficer.

Hotad an engagiag in repertiag sesirllies, ovor ball are CAS, Ul tie

13 otticara lisrod in tna Polisica, section la our Emiassy la callo,

Il are CAS... Ca she day ol Proaldent Kennady'a banguration 41 parte

of tho political dilcosa serviag in Untrod Stacan Embacalos mese CAS.

somelimon tha GlA mission ebial bas beas la the coootry loagos, bar

15050 Dandy si his disposal, vialdo more laluenos (and la abler) char

sho Ambanander. Litaa bo bas direct accasa to tha local Frimo

MITIBIOS.

SomAllinos (dE during s ertical parlod la L808) la ju-g1:ad

a different palley 1sasa thes al tha Ambaseador.

Aldo ha la genorally

'moll tinowa locally se the ClA reprasentativo,!

in tho Parte Embaasy todiy, sbara aso 128 CLA poopla, CIA la $8J15

•bai long alnce bagur to mora into aroce al polliteal reportlag sormali!

occupied by stato.

oven nougbt io monopolise contact with cartels French pollical perser dii.

Hos, among thom the Predidont al lhe Matlonal Annatably, CLA CLC ali)

the top Door al tho Farlo Imbasty, a lact mall knowa locally, and on

52 M.

NN 49061 DocId: 32622644 Page 9

---

## Page 10

la

9.т0.

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNÈDY LIBRARY DUE TO

OF THE ORIGINAL.

THE DETERIORATION

sha sight of lhe Gen-rala' revoll la Algeria, pandara-by potod

with amusement ibe: tha top Moor was ablese with lights. (I am

Ladormad that Ambarrador Gavin Mas ablA tO CACUTO ADITANCO lat

nighs to the ClA off:: en daly mith dilfeully. l

CLA is apparently sur firtly committod to tho CAS approach so a

perraarent solution ios ils probleras.

¿ la prosatay to bara ClA

people givan the rari al Counsalor. Balara Stara lands contral uí

more and more al lis presumad ovarmoso personsal, and before CAS

becumos permanantiy istagearod loso the f'oralgs Service, 18 morld

Besm importent (B). to sasure ovesy ambassados the lira coatrol

ovss the local CAS atalios nandally promised in the NSE Directive

d January 19, 1951, and (b) 8o sovior the carront CAS attandon witi:

as aya to a steady redaction d' CAS personal.

4. Paramiultary vartajo, I galbos, la rogarded la posse querteru

as a puraly rochaleal mattor, arally detectablo frors pollay and thoro-

POSe A propAs funtloa el the Departznone ol Laforea.

Yor there is

Almost so CIA (URElLON roTo pocallarly dependens on the political

costass than paramilitary martaro.

There aro several 101soas for this. For one thine, & paramilitary

operation la la lta ratare a large and attributable operation and theret;.

as suggested abora, clambes unth the prosopportione of our opens

society, (These conniderzions seed sor apply, horrores, to the

tralalaz de, nay, the forth Vlotharano ln guerrilla tartles or so lo

'apport d' alTaNdy AshERLAg FROTTillA sEttVilleR,) lOs acolbas, the

moral and political prico al direct paramilitary taliano la scato los

a8.

Corommendata, when they alloniato parasallitasy deltrily, ase

doty hat the workd exports from thens; then we do th, the appear

lo barray our own prolessed principles and theratore canans allosd to

composad dellaquency by delare Moreonor, de the rotone Algariar

apisode showed, once me courtace the morid thas me are commltied to a

paramilitary endorror, wo mill be blamed for all sarre al lataga.

DO EDO TOCODI ETAGTOTA-LOT -prisORATs apleado abstred, vibes une do at:d

men to ponsible dests, me cannel llybely matte thera ell and close tho

boaka, The Communera, on lsa albar boot, hara no perrador about

isguilderdog a lostag abom

MW d9n61 DonTd: 32622644

Pade 10

---

## Page 11

TOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIBRAR

OF THESDRIGINAG

DUEL TO THE DETERIORATION

SECRET

10.

scoreovor, guerilla martare la lought, much maño thes sallitary

mos ordinar lly reelivo, in as ideological costark, ThA peas llla

succaedo whon bido program anllato grassrocto supporti and it la

rory dificult lodni lo boat him ubes tha conseryatdo la vita birs.

Ven Mock told Conoral liarshall in 1916 not to marry abore ibe

guarrillas 1o isdonara: "o are sanelas 50, 000 mos out thoro

and will clean the dirsation up is the three monthe." siershall.

who bad bad experie:co fightios guerrillas la the Fillipples,

replied, "Il won't te do easy.

You will find that they will blord

you to death.". Cypius and Algeria illustrate the difilenity ol oves.

cor.:lif guerrilla sexistzace through sheer maight al mittery force.

Serdous guerrilla rovervents have beea dolossed only dares lines airice

the end of sio secon viorid Vari la GreAso, tocaina IIto's delectica

cloged ine eurtiarn vordus; la the Failipplass; and in Malaya.

Rhe last tur casos the gastrilla seniotance esdad bocares of lise

combinatios of political and military constermezeuros. The abrugali

In Walaye, as field harshal lomplor usderstood (and nald), ves fu:

the mindo and beatra al the peoplo; ll lorelato lovatued sol oli.

pararillllary operations but a vant educational program, aspanization

ol trada intona, palitical refosm dod as aller al rationel indepandea.e.

Il the guerrilles pourer llas is bla rovalulionary programs, the soares

lios la pars to meating the sande ubich enable tha guerrilla to rouse

she coratrydide.

"'¡'thous a polilical goal," eroto liso Ira-tuas,

"guesstlla variare nust fall, ss ll muRl ll lla polttleal objectives do.

not colacide with the sipirizlens of tia people and ll their oympetcy.

cooperation end 2a91otaac0 carnal la gained," He aldod, "Do We

mans the support of the macaos? Il una do, ina soral fo among the

masses; Arouss them to sottulty, concora eureatres with thair was!

and тоe."

Pried 90, paraple Ta per i a po at drops and.

primarily a military srsapos.

¿sandlerted. to Defense.

S7E1

Docid: 32622644: Pade 11

---

## Page 12

TO THE DETERIORATION

PHOTOCOPIED

THE KENNED

OF. THE-ORIGI

18..=

5. How lo Esta:lias Policy Contral? Hero I monder mborber lhe

Erilish experiones : igbt sor bo al valuo..

Tha notablo fosturo of tha

Exiliab incolligenco r verem la lhe derariniration to keep clendestive

activity undar airle, jorrign Ullica contral. Tala control in achlered

in si numbos al saya

a) Secrot intalligasco Sorvice (MI-6) tuall operaten undor

the direction of lso Joint Intelligenco Committae, uhles bas a

f'oreiga Cllico inalsToes (antil roceutly Sir Patrick Deas, wha

in sor the Eriti e representativo al lhe UN) and ubich lacludos

Ras SOSTiCA indo: ligenez directors Rod representarives of the

•Colonial (111c8 asd lse CommonTrealEs RelatoRe Oliica de well

as the Chief of i45.

Dy baads pa!ilcal marlaro directivos ano endglastad, sot

by 3I5, bus by lio Infostallon Restasch Departzneos la lhe

Foralgn (Hice, uftes in cononitation vlth an Isentaparemastal

Wosking Group us Interrational Comunial FrOntA, and vader

the ultionato cariral dl the Suporintondtag Vodas-Secrutary o

to Pormandos : ades-secrotary'a Departares la lho foreigs

cifico.

Lora to Serele pele itto a paleo aleros ou coe-

appropriaro fareias Ofisco jeazrapbical dante.

tem a pela rose un a atrela, ore os ala.

dons on the Warsd Tones Ieetiral

cale, a Forada de al aleo cher ete day to the B45

RET

NH 49061'.DooId:32622644: Paue:12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Ice

PHOTOCOPIED

BY THE KENNEDY LTERAR

OF THE ORIGINAL

•DI

TO: THE DETERIDRATION

12.

antorced by directive, by Stale Department chalumerialp of

workleg groupo, ai by the lafiltratios al Stato Departerest.

personnel into the f-elligence agency.

Libriously bis dot-s would sor succeed, homoves, antone the

State Lepartmest it all viere prepared lo overcorns tha labred

antito al dillusion, agativiam and delay and to taico a AsIa asd

purportal grip on ino ettention

NV. Sperationa anc intelligence

The rajaitouship borroon operationa dad intalligence relene partier.

larly pesplexing quesllons.

'Inselligence' includes tua separabie

activities: elanderrin cellection; and ranearch, analyala dod

eraluatiar. The first deals ails tbat amall partien of ser intelli.

gance procured by sacret means (lis, Dallas estimated la 1947 ibra

"a propes asalysta ol tha tosalligence abtalrablo by .. oners,

normal, and abovokasta marans mald supply us with ones 80 percest.

1 ahould estimato, of the intermation regalred for the guldesce of our

natiansi policy"); tha recond lometres the collation and laterpretstica.

al all losma ol Intelligenco, bonevor abtatrod asid the production o

Bessalte.

Vador ibe Brillas systera, clendantisa colloction la intrastad to the

Sacres intelligenco service,. To pondered, eselyale and betterina:

fuDElIon la locared lI lsa Faralga Ottlon Rescarch Departzaral

Indor the Assarices oyators, CIA has resposalblitty for bach

clanderelse collaction and renarch and analyale,. The state Dozari-

mont'" Burenu ol Intalliganze and Research and bas yor

sed and

for acceptants or rojocton;

in be Unted steles that role bai bees paramed by CLA

IH 49061 DöcId: 32622644: Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY: DIBRAR

T OF ITHE ORIGINAL

Houset

TO THE DETERIORATIO

13.

The argumen agalas: Lacorporating the researea and estirase

sunctios la Stato vas nade by Dallas la 1987: "Fos the propor

judging ol lda situaiion 12 any foreiga country ll la importase ebas

Information siould la procassad by es agency psoso duty de la lo

moigh lacri, and lo irari conclusioni froni tbons facte, mirbort.

harlas silhes lhe lacas os the conclusiona serpad by the toenitable

and evos propor pIrridices of the mon wbors duty li la to dotarraine

polloy and who, harisg once determiaed a polloy, ara loo llcely so

bo bliad lo soy facie ubich salgat terd to prove tha poliey lo bo

{22167."

PreciBaly the PaD "igumert caa ba unad uila aqual elloct aguinat

tho incorporalon d ha resessci and estlonaso funedos la ClA ..

1.8.. lí lasalligenco is too clasely consecrad viss opesationa, thes

tode comIaltted to: pasticulas oparaslas mill tena so saloes out the

Inolligenco ubles validatos tho operacion

Obviously both asgi riosts concludo in a caso los la astebllabrasat oi

a fairly ladopedoni esearch and estimaso group. Bus, 11 the Béi

¿roup la tão independent, ono ruso leto the apponlte dengos: that le.

•lhat seithos policy ios operationa mill bo sobjected to adagasso

iotelligance checks.

Cabas operaltos aradod syzionatie intelllganco folgment.. I'he ts-:

salligenca brasch (DUD al CIA vas noves lalormad el the estatenco

el tha Cabas aparation Tha Oltica el National Estirastes vas novos

sexod to coinment en the andumpllos, los escamplo, thas diacointon:

had reschad the polis in Cuba where a secconstel landlay operasles

would provado upplatage babdad lha llaos and dolorteas trozo the.

552225

otimaro al lhe stoco o opinioa la Caba frem thas es ubica the opere

loi mis bairad Thoro exocad, is abort, the staterlons estudlos

2S89121

NH 49061: Docid: 32622644. Page 11

---

## Page 15

SIUnCI

la

THE DETERIORATION

shas knowledgo of the Subes appralion,: Hauncod la slamil baro

by asy cunter of lea-level agento la lie operationa brancs ol CIA,

mas denled to eves so top officiala d the tuballigunca breach, Iho

Eureau ol Intelligenci and loseasel al la Dupertartas el Staco

tron over 13a8 abou, the Cubas operation.

The problors, then, is to hava sa RuE group softictently isdependiani

Of buCh pOliCy aM GUeTAtiONI lO SOBLAt lA PIERRUTA tO MaRLA thA CAsE

for veared idesa as Interests - yet malitcienly ciora do so ablo to

subjart projectad aerations on pelletos lo the most infease and

«ВІСіД! ВСТИКіЗУ

Vinese could this gi uup le loested? I tho ClA sato lo become

autordlaate lù State, as li-ú l8 lo tha Foreign Ullter, then the F.i...

function migas be vizzod la a coordinato aubagency, pomontes inde.

pendert of both Stars and CIA, yot elonaly consected with borh ta de:

¡conday operasions. The k&f. cubagancy mouli recatve lata ligence

150TE CLA DOd ITOTS. "ERTO, 20 MALl RA ITOII tA SOSVIÇDS ADA, dE COLLBE.

1801n puble sources. I mould reprodent, la ellach a fusion a ClA/ i!!

add State/ intalligenco and raneared. 1 might also take ones certal:

al tha cortice functiona nor confidad lo CIA - paotograpble iaserpre..

talion. blographice: data, lorelga brosdcan condortag, overt collec.

tion, mapa, exc. T'hero inighs do is additlan a J0108 Iralligasce Ecará

vith representalives trom all tha lutalligence ageactor sad utta o

Stare Departmant or l'bito Houss chalraas.

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIBRARY DI

OF THE ORIGINA

V. Coaclusion

The argumens al this marcoraadur laplies a fairly drantic pous rarita.

rUBIS dE OUT preDeLl. intelligence pet-up.

Is aloo lipllon tea capacis

al the Serra Departmant to anunse camaros d lin die

atlos and to de

intelliganco.

Ispariment

Is la as ergimore los a drastle oneshaul ol tha State

TH 19061 DOCId: 32622644 Page 15

---

## Page 16

TO, THE DETERIORATION

PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDYEL

O OF THE ORIGINA

SECRET

1a

15.

•The structure wild! dould rievi the critarta maggonica la ebla

mamorandan valid e as filliNo:

1) The Stei: Departiest toald be grastod general

cioarasco auth ily dies all clandastes sertuity,. Tale

indgat be effectuated on the Britiah model by the appolnessent

al a Leputy lar gecretaTy of Stato fos Incalliganco, Who

woald act 10s !!

§scretary in lhods matters and uto sadzis

BOTVe as Chairs."10f sUolst LocallIgence BORId

2) The jo::. Intelligence loard would lacludo ropre-

sontasives iron ill elumonto la the dacolligenco community

3) The operuling branchos al the present ILA would be

reconstitutad under posa blasalesa lillo (iDe Nailosal InCOrIta-

lion Servico). Tals now ageary moeld bo charged with rasposai.

bility fos clandostine callection, los corost polliical operations

and for paramiliary sctivilies. Il mould sabrall projects to the

Deputy Undersecretary of State for Iotalligance los clonranco.

Is goneral, the agency would bear sorsonbar tha samo relatias.

uhio to Staco so lino DisAtIAmOnI AdminietradIon and ICA

prosently da

" pocond sonil-udopendent agency would be rot up, again

bearing a blamalaos 11110 (8h0 Foreigs Reevarch Agencyl, coordi-:

nato wilh the operatione agency.

This agency would be charged

wilh resposalbility. for colladion and luxorpretasion. & would

include ClA/DDi the Lureau of Istalllgenes and Research la:

State, ani the variove porvica lunctions som carriod on by CLA

(photograpbie inter;recallon, blographical llles, foreige broadcas,

nonstoring, octe-sific intelligence, mape, overt collection, etc:)

& might woll be locaterl in ebo CIA balldlag in seLeas

Artbas Schleslogor, Js.

The Attornay General.

Mr.: Bundy

MT.: Duagan

CASEORM

---

