# 176-10036-10027

## Page 1

176-10036-10027

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10027

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Fidel Castro's Coming Visit to Moscow and Algiers

DATE: 4/23/1963

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 38: Cuba 4/21/63-4/30/63. Box 1.

15 ann

п--1

---

## Page 2

"-""

SECREL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

sanitized

versio

OCT NO. 1427/6ENLK-73-

23 April 1963

198),

AP8B, 7/36

Fidel Castro's Coming Visit to Moscow and Algiers

1.

The initial report on Fidel Castro's forth-

coming visit to. Moscow came from a usually reliable

source with excellent contacts in Cuban government. circles

who obtained the information from a Cuban government

ficial who has been an intimate acquaintance for many

years and who has excellent high-level contacts through-

out the Cuban leadership.

The usually reliable source

obtained the information

on 25 March.

The report was

disséminated to the intelligence community on 27 March

and reported in the Current Intelligence Bulletin dated

29 March.

2.

The substance of the report was that, despite

his

strong criticism of the Soviet Union; particularly

concerning its actions during the missile crisis, Fidel

is not blinded to the need "for Cuba to maintain

good aiplomatic relations with the entire "socialist

camp

"Castro was planning, according to the report,

to go to Moscow for the May Day celebrations. He was

planning, however, to remain in moscow only three days.

It was his intention, according to the report, to tell

Khrushchev, in effect, that the USSR must assist Cuba

but

must at the same time understand that Castro does not

intend to be a "docile satellite."

3.

Information from the same source and sub-source

was disseminated

to the intelligence community on 30

Märch indicating that Castro was intending to visit Algeria

on the same trip that took him to Moscow. This was re-

ported in the Current Intelligence Bulletin on 1 April:

•:*

The substance of the second report was that

Castro "plans to visit Algeria in connection with" the

yisit to Moscow and that Algeria and the UssR are the only

two •countries

he was planning to visit on that trip.

The

Algerian visit was planned in

view of the "special rela-

tionship!

that is said to exist between Castro and Bei

Bella and also between Castro and Algerian Defense Minister

Boumedienne.

SECRET

•NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

---

