# 177-10002-10101

## Page 1

177-10002-10101

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/6/2018

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : LBJ

RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10101

RECORD SERIES: NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

CIA

TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/28/1963

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

DOC. #6

v9.1

---

## Page 2

TO:

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

INITIALS

Darmer Mathis, spec. Accest, NARA 1/14/15

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

4

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONOURFENCE

REMARKS

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORIMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NLT -088/93 BJ

Copy a

OF _

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

Jennifer Cuddeback, LBJ Libramy

DATE

414115

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 3

--

waw

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

President.

Read

dusing brufing

fu ma Cove

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

28 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

66

Y2

A CARACAS La Guaira

Mene se

Grandex

10

Maturan

cludad Bolival®

BRITISH

GUIAN

COLOMBIA

VENEZUELA

- Selected railroad

BRAZIL

50

34168 10-63

100

100

200 Miles

200 Kilometers

MeN.

BRAZI

68

---

## Page 5

1.

Venezuela

a.

The country's six presiden-

tial

candidates have swung into the

nome stretch of their campaigns.

So have the terrorists, who are still

trying hard to sabotage next Sunday's

vote.

b. There is little doubt that

the terrorist effort has all-out

Cuban support.. Castro looks on

Venezuela as his prime target in

Latin America and would do everything

in his power to prevent president

Betancourt from finishing his term.

C.

So far, the terrorists have

tried to intimidate the candidates.

by harassing political rallies, bomb-

ing their party headquarters in

various cities, and threatening them

with assassination.

They have tried

to scare voters from the polls by

creating a general atmosphere of law

lessness. Kidnappings, like the one

yesterday morning of Colonel Chenault,

are part of the pattern.

d.

The government counterattack

Is under the personal direction of

Betancourt, who is as determined to

finish out

his term and turn over

power to a freely-elected successor

as Castro is to prevent this.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 6

2.

South Vietnam

e.

Yesterday it was announced

that the carrying of firearms by

anyone outside the security forces

was forbidden until the elections

are over.

. Some 3,000 reservists have

been called up to protect the polls.

Leaves are being cancelled and all

security forces are maintaining a

high state of alert.

2.

We now have a fuller ac-

count from official US sources of

the Viet Cong attack on two mountain

villages mentioned in Tuesday's

Checklist.

b. This account makes it clear

that the earlier press

versions,

•which spoke of 1,000 missing vil-

lagers, were highly colored.

c. Our present information

is that the attack, in company

strength, was successfully repulsed.

The Viet

Cong suffered some 30 cas-

ualties; government losses were six

killed,

three wounded and 39 missing.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 7

3.

Israel

d. As is usual in these cases,

the villagers began to trickle back

once the Viet Cong left.

This episode aside,

WE SEe

• a number of indications that the

Communists will try to sustain the

higher level of military activity

they have kept up since the coup.

f.

The Communist radio has

called for more attacks in an effort

to destroy strategic hamlets and

"develop" Viet Cong forces. In sup-

port of this, Viet Cong communica-

tions traffic has been unusually

heavy and has involved a large vol-

ume of high priority traffic and

special alert patterns.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. We have some reason to be-

lieve that the Israelis are develop-

ing a surface-to-surface missile of

their own.

b. A reliable clandestine

source says that an Israeli repre-

sentative is trying to buy US stable

platforms for the inertial guidance

system of a missile with a range of

300-350 miles.

in six to tweive monthse There have

been several earlier reports that

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 8

4.

USSR-India

Israel is buying missile components

in the US and England.

C.

We think this missile pro-

gram is independent of another

Israeli venture:

Tel Aviv's con-

tract with a French firm, Marcel

Dassault, for the development of a

system which will be able to deliver

a 1,600-pound warhead to a maximum

range of 300 miles.

Moscow has promised the

Indians to ship the equipment for

one surface-to-air (SAM)

training

site early next month.

b. The Soviets had agreed to

ra base area to

The rest

will probably not be sent until the

Indians have learned to handle the

equipment about a year from now.

As we noted last Sunday,

there are some Indians who have

doubts about the Soviet willingness

to live up to the letter of their

military aid agreements with New

Delhi.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 9

5.

Burma

They call into question

especially the contract for the

Soviets to set up in India a facility

to assemble MIG fighters--an enter-

prise which has appeared somewhat

impractical from the beginning.

e. We do note, however, that

Soviet aircraft specialists working

on the project were still in New

Delhi in early November.

(INTERCEPTS)

a. Ne Win has followed up his

action in breaking off talks with

the Burmese Communists by arresting

over 700 of their number.

b. Ne Win had been trying to

lure the faction-ridden Communists

into a "national front." However,

he found the demands of the Commu-

nist negotiators, some of whom had

only just returned from long exile

in Peiping, to be impossible.

C. This will probably lead to

renewed fighting between the army

and Communist guerrillas in the hills.

d. More trouble can also be

expected from the rebellious ethnic

minorities like the Karens and the

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 10

South Vietnam

CHINA

• Quang Tr

Hue

¿De: Nang

Quang Nam

INDONESI

THAL AND

LAO S

Quang Ngai

CAM B

"Kontum

Pleiku •

'An Khe

Cheo Reo

Ban Me Thuot

Da Lat

Qui: Nhon

• Song: Cau

Tuy Hoa

I Phu

° Loc Ninh

"Pour Tiny

SAIGON

the Len

My Tho

Hưng Tau

/ Phan Thiết

ha Trạng

Phan Rặng

SOUTH

CHINA

" SEA

Phu Quợc pạch G

GULF

OF

SIAM

•Quản Long,

(Ca Mau)

Bac Lieu

GTATUTE MILES 150 34235

L..

---

## Page 11

6.

7.

Cambodia

Greece

Kachins, whose demands for greater

autonomy have been rejected in Ran-

goon.

e.

Us officials on the spot

doubt that the army, hobbled by poor

leadership and its many political

responsibilities, will be any more

effective in dealing with the prob-

lem this time than in past anti-

insurgency campaigns.

a. Sihanouk has signed an ac-

cord setting up regular air service

between Cambodia and Communist China.

A similar agreement with Hanoi is

in the works.

b. These lines are significant

largely as gestures by Peiping and

Hanoi to bolster Sihanouk's sense

of importance. Neither would be a

paying proposition commercially and

both could flounder before the first

paying passenger enplanes unless

rights to overfly Laos can be obtained.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

so paparas

a. It looks more and more as

if Papandreou, who squeaked through

to a narrow upset victory over ex-

premier Karamanlis in the 3 November

elections, will not be able

to form

a government.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 12

8.

Brazil

b.

His party does not have

parliamentary majority, so

he needs

support from either Karamanlis

party on the right or from the Com-

munists.

The military has apparently

been pressing Karamanlis to withhold

that support. He does not need much

urging.

c.

The military has also let

it be known that it would consider

Papandreou's acceptance of Communist

support as sufficient reason for a

coup d'etat.

d. In/addition to this military

string-pulling, the royal family is

also meddling--not for the first

time. Should Papandreou fail to

form a government, the palace intends

to pass the mandate to Karamanlis,

believing that he too would fail.

e.

This would then open the

way, the palace calculates, for a

compromise premier more amenable to

palace influence.

a.

President Goulart and his

opponents are keeping political ten-

sions in Brazil high.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 13

D. Comments by Goulart, thai

"social disaster" is sure if his

program is not passed soon, have drawn

sharp rejoinders from moderate and

conservative figures and have fed

rightist coup plotting.

C .

Strains are also growing in

the military following the arrest

of a young officer who refused last

month to execute an order to arrest

Governor Lacerda, a leading conserva-

tive spokesman and likely presidential

candidate.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 14

NOTES

A.

USSR

Simultaneous activity this morning on the

Tyuratam missile test range, satellite tracking nets

and Soviet space support ships in the Atlantic prob-

ably represented

an attempt to launch an unmanned

earth

satellite.

The launch apparently failed on

the pad or was cancelled at the last moment. It

may

be tried again soon. (INTERCEPTS)

B. Rumania-US Rumanian officials are about to award

a US 11rm,

Ferguson and Company of Cleveland, Ohio,

a $32 million contract to help build the huge Galati

steel plant.

The Rumanians are pressing ahead with

this project in the face of Soviet efforts to dis-

courage it in various ways, most importantly by re-

fusing to underwrite the scheme to any substantial

degree.

C.

Turkey

The New Turkey Party has followed the

Peasant Party in withdrawing from the present three-

party coalition government.

This means that the

coalition has to all intents and purposes collapsed,

even though no formal action will be taken until

Prime Minister Inonu returns from Washington this

weekend.

D.

Thailand

The Thai doctors attending Sarit now ad-

mit for

the first time that the prime Minister is in

critical condition.

Our doctor agrees with this

prognosis.

US officials in Bangkok believe that the

most likely successor would be Thanom Kittikachorn,

now deputy prime minister and minister of defense.

Thanom is not likely to last long, however, since he

is neither a strong personality nor a figure of great

weight in the military hierarchy.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 15

ALGERIA

LIBYA

CHADE

GAMBIA

PoRT. el

SUDAN

R. SOMAL.

NIGERIA

OMALI

REPUBLIC

REPÚBLIC

OF THE COl

RWANDA BURUNDI

@ZANZIBAR

CABINDY

OZAMBIQUE

SOUTHWEST

AFRICA

REPUBLIC

:OF

SOUTH AFRICA

SWAZILAND

BASUTOLAND

---

## Page 16

E.

Indonesia-Philippines

A Philippine foreign office

man states that everything was set,

as we noted yes-

terday, for Sukarno to visit Manila today. This

official says, however, that the visit was postponed

as a result of Macapagal's decision to attend Presi-

dent Kennedy's funeral.

F. Indonesia

Djakarta is giving every indication that

it will hold up final action on the long-pending oil

contracts with US companies in an attempt to smoke

us out on the question of US aid policy toward Indo-

nesia.

G. Rwanda-Burundi Tribal refugees from Rwanda, now in

Burundi,

seem bent on

countries.

making trouble between

• the two

Some 3,000 of their number were reported

yesterday

to be moving toward the frontier. They

have little military capability, but blood could

flow and require UN intervention.

H.

USSR-Congo As a further token of the withdrawal

ot soviet diplomats we have noted that the Soviet

diplomatic communications link between Moscow and

Leopoldville was shut down last Saturday. (INTER-

CEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

