# 177-10002-10098

## Page 1

177-10002-10098

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/6/2018

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

LBJ

RECORD NUMBER:

177-10002-10098

RECORD SERIES: NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

CIA

TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/27/1963

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #5

v9.1

---

## Page 2

TO

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE INITIALS

James Mathis, Ses. Access, MARA V1415

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

4

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORIMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SC-NL5-085/93 3]

COPy 2

OF

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO

Jennifer Cuddebach, UBILibram

DATE

VM/15

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 3

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

27 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SECRET

HAVAN'A

•Nipe Ber

CUBA

i Naval Base

SAM SITE

NAUTICAL MILES

SO 601126 6

SECRET

---

## Page 5

1.

Cuba

2. Syria-Iraq

Cuban tents are now begin-

ning to appear at a number of the

SAM sites--further evidence that

training of Cubans in operation of

SAM equipment has begun as scheduled.

b.

High-altitude photography

taken this past weekend shows these

tents at six SAM sites in western

Cuba.

These sites are in addition

to those at which we noted the pres-

ence

of Cuban interpreters as we

reported on Saturday.

c.

This training should

be com-

pleted by next May or June.

d. Just before the training

started, we noted a series of moves

involving the relocation of eight of

the SAM sites.

The purpose, it appears,

was to shift the mission of the sys-

tem from an area defense of the

island as a whole to point defense

of specific targets, particularly

Havana. (Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. Syrian leaders have acceded

to pressure from Iraq and have ex-

pelled Iraqi Baathist extremist Ali

Saadi. He has gone to Athens

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 6

PARTY STRENGTHS IN TURKISH ELECTIONS

(by % of total vote)

1961 General Election

4: 1963 Local Election

30.7

37.0

Republican Peoples' Party (RPP)

34.8

145.9

Justice Party (JP)

₴13.7

6.5

New Turkey Porty (NTP)

14.0

Republican Peasant Nation Party (RPNP)

let 3.1

Nation Party (NP)

0.8

Independents (or unreported vote)

Turkish Labor Party (TLP)

631125 €

Met te bite to

I..... 1

.l..1

... 1.

---

## Page 7

3.

Turkey

b. This is an earnest of the

desire of moderate Baathist leaders

in Damascus to preserve workable re-

lations with Iraq, partly as a

counterbalance to Cairo and partly

to preserve what remains of Baathist

influence in Baghdad.

c.

Intercepts show at least

some Syrian troops will remain in

Iraq at the request of Iragi offi-

cials.

d. Preparations had been under

way for these forces to withdraw;

retention of at least some in Iraq

is another sign that both regimes

hope to preserve something of the

relations they once had.

(Includes

INTERCEPTS)

a.

Prime Minister Inonu's

coalition government is about to

collapse.

b.

It has long been shaky.

Last week it was dealt a severe set-

back

when the opposition Justice

Party, heir of the Menderes regime,

emerged from local elections as the

country's majority party.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 8

160

140 -

120

100

80

60

40

20

1950

631021 2A

1951

MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN SOVIET AGRICULTURE

INDEX OF NET AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION -

1950 = 100

1963-?

Fertilizer program.

1963

Wheat purchases.

TOTAL POPULATION OF THE USSI

1950-100

Program to plow up and

plant tallow donos

1962

Livestock product

prices raised.

1961-62

Administrative

reorganizations.

1955-56

Corn progran

1954-56

New Lands program.

1953-55

Procurement prices raised.

1958

mo china-tracio

stations abolished.

1957-58

! Program to "catch up" with

US in meat and milk output.

1952

1953

1954

1955

1956

1957

1958

1959

1960

1961

1962

1963

SoviET GRAIN PRODUCTION

FALLGRAINS

WHEAT ALONE

---

## Page 9

1.......

4.

USSR wheat

c.

Now the Peasant Party, one

of the

three in the coalition,

has

Toted to pull out, and probably will

lo so as soon as Inonu gets back Iron

Washington. Another partner, the

Turkey Party, has wanted to pull out,

and apparently has stayed in only

partner pull outs

because of pressure from the military.

d. A new coalition is at least

a theoretical possibility, with a

number of independents taking the

place of the Peasant Party, but

Inonu probably would not be prime

minister.

e. The military are working

for an all-party coalition. This

way, they feel, they could keep

tabs on the Justice Party, but the

Justice Party is not likely to buy

this arrangement.

f.

As matters now stand, the

military would take over the govern-

ment itself before it would let the

Justice Party form one.

a.

Soviet President Brezhnev

was taken to avoid lowering reserves,

which he has described as ample for

one or two years. We think the sit-

uation is more serious than that.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 10

b. This year's harvest was

clearly very bad.

The weight of

evidence suggests that Soviet grain

stockpiles have been far drawn down

this year and are not sufficient to

protect the country from another

poor harvest.

c. Our estimate is that total

grain production each year since

1958 has been well below that year's

level of 125 million tons, while

the population has continued to grow.

d. We have seen from intercepts

signs

of extensive slaughtering in

anticipation of fodder shortages

during the winter.

This runs counter

to Khrushchev's oft-stated plan to

build up the livestock industry.

e. We have also noted that

the extensive wheat purchases weaken

the USSR's gold reserves at a time

when it hopes to expand its imports

of machinery for a huge chemical

fertilizer program.

In addition, we have seen

signs of stringent measures to pro-

cect the grain supply, accompanied

oy public discontent in some areas

over the absence of bread.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 11

5.

Communist

China

Argentina

a.

Peiping last week con-

tracted for some 300,00 tons of

wheat. (cost about $20,000,000) from

Argentina.

b. This adds to the 1,000,000

tons just contracted for with Aus-

tralia, but is still far below

the 5,000,000 tons the Chinese have

normally imported in recent years.

Additional suppliers will be hard

to find.

c. A large sale, apparently

involving some $56,000,000 worth

of meat, is apparently

also being

arranged. This is interesting,

not only for the sizeable foreign

exchange outlay, but also for the

concern it shows for improving the

diet of the mainland's urban pop-

ulation.

d. The same caloric value

could be obtained

from grains at

a fraction of this cost.

(INTERCEPTS throughout)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 12

6.

Czechoslovakia-

USSR

7.

Cambodia

a. Czech President and party

boss Novotny has gone to Moscow,

evidently for economic talks, judg-

ing by the composition of his dele-

gation.

b.

Novotny's background of

Stalinist excesses have put him on

the wrong side of Khrushchev.

They

also have given rise to control

problems, particularly in the frac-

tious Slovak party where pressures

for liberalization have made their

mark.

C.

Party problems and Novotny's

leadership may thus also come under

review.

d. A curious sign of the times

is the fact that, although President

Novotny is in Moscow, the presidential

flag has remained up

at the official

residence.

It might simply have been

an oversight, but the symbolism will

not be lost to the people in Prague.

Cambodia, as expected, has

asked the Geneva

co-chairman to call

the Geneva conference participants

together (in Djakarta) to discuss

measures "to ensure the internation-

ally

guaranteed and controlled neu-

tralization of Cambodia."

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 13

@izan

Al Muwa

• Maydi

KAMARAN

(U.K.)

RED

. SEA

Mocha

ETHIOPIA

FR.

SOM.

33905

SYRIA

JORDAN

IRAQ

faniy S133

Najan 0

U. A.R.

(EGYPT)

Ras Banai

SAUDI

jidda

• „Macca

Taif

Riyadh

DEMENARZED ZONE

Sug Ahôn

SUDAN

Khartoum

ARABIA

Sana

YEMEN

ETHIOPIA

Addis Ababa

anch

Sirwah

Ha

SIGULE OF ADEN

BO MILES

13 BEPTEMBER 1963

---

## Page 14

8.

Egypt-Yemen

b.

Last year when this

• came

up, the French were inclined

to go

along with some such idea.

They have indicated to us

that they still feel Sihanouk should

not be turned down, and Sihanouk is

obviously hopeful that they will

exert pressure on us and the British.

Sihanouk seems to be hoping

for at least a rump session attended

by conferees who are willing to do

his bidding.

a .

in men than

An Egyptain military mes-

sage reporting to Cairo on operations

in Yemen this past weekend indicated

that poison gas (referred to as

"ghurab" in Egyptian military traf-

fic) was used against royalist tribes-

men in the northwest.

b. This is the first time we

have noted its employment since

last

summer, although another inter-

cept shows that the Egyptian com-

mand

I has continued to authorize its

use.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 15

9.

Congo

c. It is basically a tear gas,

but in such highly concentrated form

that it has caused the death of a num-

ber of Yemenis.

(INTERCEPTS throughout)

a .

Opposition leftist Congo-

lese exiles, operating from Brazza-

ville across the river, are reported

to be plotting to assassinate Congo-

lese Premier Adoula and some of his

ministers.

b. It is supposed to happen

sometime after 8 December.

C.

Meanwhile, agents are being

infiltrated with money to buy off

opposition to a takeover immediately

thereafter by radical nationalist

Gbenye.

d.

Adoula's government already

knows that this group of left-wing

subversives, which now numbers about

50, is being helped by the Communist

bloc.

e.

It operates fairly freely

in the loose circumstances which now

obtain in Brazzaville. . Its activities

may soon become a serious source of

friction between the two countries.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 16

NOTES

A. South Korea

With 85 percent of the vote in, Pak

Chong-hui's Derocratic Republican Party has already

won an absolute majority in the National Assembly

elections held yesterday.

B.

Venezuela

The country's three major presidential

candidates were the targets of unsuccessful assassi-

nation attempts yesterday as Communist-led terror-

ists moved into the

final week of desperate attempt

to wreck next Sunday's elections. A US Embassy of-

ficial was also the intended recipient of a "Christ-

mas package" containing a bomb.

Yesterday a US

rubber warehouse was set afire and destroyed by

terrorists.

C.

Indonesia-Philippines

We have what is about as

sure a sign as we can get that Sukarno will be go-

ing to Manila as reported yesterday. A reliable

source tells us Sukarno has sent advance word to

two of his favorite Philippine girl friends that he

will be arriving on 28 November.

D.

Indonesia-Malaysia

Indonesian-inspired press re-

ports yesterday claimed a British military plane

was shot down near the North Borneo border. Brit-

ish Intelligence tells us the story is concocted;

no aircraft

are reported missing.

E.

Cuba

The alert in the Cuban military which we

noted immediately after President Kennedy's death

has been lifted. (INTERCEPT)

(Cont"a)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 17

F.

G.

•Cambodia

Cambodia is cutting its diplomatic rep-

resentation abroad to a bare minimum as an austerity

measure following curtailment of US aid, Sihanouk

announced last week that this would be done, saying

that missions in Communist countries would not be

affected since those countries "protect" Cambodia.

Curiously enough, among the missions being closed

down are those in New Delhi and Rangoon.

(INTERCEPTS)

(Includes

USSR-US

Pravda this morning reports on Gromyko's

talks with President Johnson, giving top play to

Senator Fulbright's remarks about the desirability

of a meeting between the President and Khrushchev.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 18

DOCUMENTS OF INTEREST

I. De Gaulle on NATO strategy.

II. Common Market official

(Sensitive INTERCEPT)

appraises

President

Johnson.

For The President Only - Top

Secret

---

