# 177-10002-10069

## Page 1

177-10002-10069

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

LBJ

177-10002-10069

NSF, COUNTRY FILE, MEXICO, LOPEZ MATEOS VISIT, BOX 61

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

STATE

DEAN RUSK

THE PRESIDENT

DATE: 02/18/1964

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

DOC. #9

v9.1

NH 50955

DocId: 32205112

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

ADDRESE OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO

THE SECRETARY OF STATE

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE Wi

9

WASHINGTON

Bready

1 prot

Oxig I Dangaw

SECRET

FEB 1 8 1964

HEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

Subject: Your Meeting with President Lopez Mateos

We do not expect to make any maior political decisions

but want to give new emphasis to the friendly relations

which exist between Mexico and the United States.

These

relations are now at an all-time high. Mexico felt it had

a real friend in President Kennedy. They feel the same

relationship exists wich you but want to be zeassured.

warm Texas handshake and abrazo when you greet Lopez Mateos

at Los Angeles would symbolize the continuance of that

relationship.

We want to stress the identity of interests of our two

countries and our ability to work out in the "spirit of

El Chamizal" any problems that may arise between us.

Despite the intormal atmosphere of the visit, we

should give scrupulous attention to Mexico's extreme

sensitivity on sovereign equality and Mexico's strong

desire to avoid any appearance of subservience to the

United States.

Lopez Mates speaks for the Mexican Government and

no important decision is made without his approval. H

has followed an "independent" foreign policy but knows

that good relations with us, especially in the economic •

sphere, are essential to his country. At times his foreign

policy has been too independent--for example on Cuba and in

commercial and cultural relations with Communist China.

But

SECRET

GROUP 2

Exempted from

* *

WW 50955

DocId: 32205112

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

= 20

But when fundamental lasues are at stake we have usually

found him understanding and willing to be helpful--controlling

travel of Castro agents, non-recognition of Red China, offer-

ing help on Panama.

Lopez Mateos has chosen his successor, Gustavo DIAZ

Ordaz, who will take office in December 1964 after elections

in July. Rower is therefore drifting toward Diaz Ordaz.

Enclosed is a paper on points which it la suggested

you raise at the meeting, and those which it is believed

Lopez Mateos will raise.

7s/ Dean Ruste

Dean Rusk

Enclosure:

Paper on points to be

raised at the meeting

SECRET

NH 59955

DocId: 32205112

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MAJOR POINTS OF INTEREST TO THE UNITED STATES

1. General Information and Hemisphere Relatione

We desire to continue close working relations with

Mexico both within and outside the OAS and the

UN.

we hope Mexico will continue to use its key political

and geographic position to help control Castro/Communism.

Mexico is very sensitive about publicizing its cooperation

and ve have carefully avoided any public comment on Mexican

control measures.

Mexico has offered 1ts assistance on Panama. Mexico

is not aware of the role of President Orlich of Costa Rica

In mediation efforts and we do not desire that this come to

Mexico's attention. We welcome

Mexico's assistance within

an OAS context.

2. Red China

The coming visit of De Gaulle to Mexico and Brazil In

March has prompted speculation that these two countries

are about to recognize Red China. Lopez Mateos has given

us secret assurances, through CIA channels, that he has

no intention of recognizing Red China. We do not desire

to raise this jasue, but if Lopez Mateos raises it, we

should let him know we are aware of his assurances.

3. Mexico's Role in the Alliance for BrOgress

Mexico's participation in the Alliance is essential

to its success.

Mexico has played a leading role in IA-ECOSOC

and has named

the Director General of the Bank of Mexico as

ite representative to CIAP. It has cooperated with us in

providing extensive training facilities for Latin American

technicians.

We want to encourage Mexico to make a greater

contribution

SECREZ

NW 50955 DocId: 32205112 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRIK

-2-

contribution. Mexico is making renewed efforts to promote

private enterprise and we also want to encourage Mexico

along this line.

We should continue to cooperate with

Mexico in maintaining financial stability and promoting

economie development.

4. Disputed Tracte on Rio Grande

There renain several tracts on the Rio Grande over

which sovereignty is in dispute. We desire to have the

Intenational Boundary and Water Commission study these

problems and recommend a solution.

5. Control of Narcotics

Mexico and the United States are cooperating in

controlling the importation of narcotics and dangerous

drugs into the United States.

We should strengthen this

cooperation in the mutual interest of both countries. We

hope therefore that Mexico will agree to periodic meetings

of the highest law enforcement officers of the two countries.

6. Desalinization Plant at Iljuene

An appraisal report by Interior shows that this is

the most economical way to supply water to Tijuana.

We

are prepared to go ahead with a feasibility study 1f

Mexico desires and will share the cost.

MAJOR POINTS LOPEZ MATEOS IS EXPECTED TO RAISE

1. Salinity Problem on Lower Colorada

The Mexican President wants a reaffirmation of Presi

dent Kennedy's commitment "to reach a permanent and effect-

ive solution at the earliest possible time" of the salinity

problem. We can agree but should evold any commitment on

timing. It Lopez Mateos raises the related problem os the

groundwater

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32205112 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

- 3=

groundwater recovery program at Yuma, we agree that the

Boundary Commission should study the problem. Farmers

In the lower Rio Grande Valley are seriously concerned

about saline drainage discharged into the river by Mexico

and want the Boundary Commission to achieve an early

solution to this problem.

2. Bracero Program

The Mexican Government is privately seriously

disturbed about the termination of this program. Con-

gressional opposition.to it is.strong and we cannot comnit

ourselves to continue the program.

We are looking into the

problem to see if anything can be done to help Mexico. One

possibility is an expanded community development program

in Mexico through private channels (P.L.480 foodstuffs

through U. S. voluntary agencies) if Mexico is interested.

3. Mexico's Concern about U.S. Trade Policies

Mexico is concerned about United States restrictions

or threatened restrictions on textiles, lead, zine and

meat and other produets and United States cotton policies

which it claims hurt Mexican cotton exports to the world

market. We recognize that we are natural markets for each

other. We desire to expand trade, promote competition and

develop markets. We want to maintain or expand the present

level of access

to each other's market but we would not be

able to guarantee Mexico ite present share of our market in

each comnodity or a share in increased consumption.

4. Chamizal

Settlement

Lopez Mateos wants to be recorded in history as the

man who returned the Mexican flag to the Chamizal.

He

wants a ceremony at the Presidential level at El Pase-Ciudad

Juarez before December 1964 to symbolize the Chanizal settle

ment.

We should gnly agree to consult later in the year on

an appropriate ceremony and a possible date.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32205112 Page 6

---

