# 178-10002-10185

## Page 1

178-10002-10185

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER: 178-10002-10185

RECORD SERIES:

ASSASSINATION FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: A-I(G) CIA CORRES-ASSASSINATIONS (2)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: MURRAY, WILLIAM J.

TO: INSPECTOR GENERAL

TITLE : QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITIES

DATE: 01/17/1975

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

' RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Attachments: 1781000210186, 187, 188.

v9.l

HW 50955

124

Doold: 32276339

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP. SEGRET

1375-002X

178-10002-10185

17 January 1.975

MEMORANDU! FOR: The Inspector. General

VIA

SUBJECT

;, Deputy Director for Operations

: Questionable Activities

1. In 1960 the writer developed and recruited Jose Raul Martinez

Nunez

(201-281382), a Cuban national and a ranking Cubana Airline pilot.

2.

Mr. Nartinez requested an emergers, meeting on 18 July 1960 to

advise thit he was the likel: choice to pilot a chartered Cubana Airline

flight frun Havana, cuba to Praque to pick un Raul Castro fuz and his

official party.

adviser: of the flight schedule; requirements were requesied.

3. On the morning of 21 July Headguarters cont. 1 TOP SECET RYBIT

OPERITIOIL GODLITE CAble (DIRECTOR 40923 CUT 98041, 21 July 1960, to

the Havana it tion a vising thit "possible removal of top three leaders

is receiving serious consideration at Headquarters' and requested the

Station at iis optin to contact In. Hurtinez and deterine his willinness

to cooperate in arranging an accirent during.

the return trip from Prague.

The cable said that Heed juar ers wuld be willing to offer a payment after

successful complation of 010, 000.00 or a reasinable amount in excess of that.

4. Mr. Janes joel, CAS Havana, instructe.! the writer to neat with ir.

Martines and make known our interests.

The writer contactei Ur. Martinez

and arranged an emergency meeting which tock place in Mr. Martinez' personal

vehicle while driving to the airport.

Mr. Martinez aid he would take a

calculated risk but linite: the possibilities nich could pass as in accident.

it one point Mr. Martinez aske! for assurance that in event of his death

the U.S. Government would see that his to sons were given a College education.

This assurance was given orelly.

On returning to the Statin the vriter

uns advised that an OPIl Cable (DI ECTOR 40965 nUT 99096, 21 July 1960) had

been received at the Station directiny the Station to disregard the earlier

instructions.

5. Mr. Mrtinez was debriefed by the writer after his return from

Prague.

He resorted thit he had no omportunity to arrange an accident such

as we har discussed prior to his departure.

I do not recall telling tr.

Martinen thut the original instructions, hod been changer and 1 am irelined

to bolice I mace no reference to the new instructions nich had bren receive?

- after -

TOP SEGRET

ОТОСОРУ

FROM

THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

HW 50955 DocId:32276339 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOP, SECRET

- 2-

after Mr. l'artinez' departure from Havana.

6.

Mr. Martinez defected ir early Dece ber 1960. I saw him once

in early 1961 in l'i mi, Florida where he had tiken up residence.

I do

not know if ny other Station officers were knowledgeable of this incident

although it is probable tint ir. Arthur Avignon, Dens now retired and

living in the lashington area may have read the pertinent cables.

wilLiam J. hurray

C/LA/Narcotics

Attached:

(I)

(2)

(3)

DIRECTOR 40923,

21 July 1960 TOP SECRET

DIRECTOR 40965, 21 July 1960 TOP SECHET

HAVA 5396 (IN 28071), 22 July 1960 SACRDI

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32276339 Page 3

---

