# 180-10068-10347

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10347

RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992144 050

2107 Natel. Case#iNw BB226 Date: 2025

NW 88326

Docld:32243313 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10347

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 11/21/77

PAGES

.: 4

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

FEELEY, ELIZABETH C.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENT'S

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326

NDocld:32243313 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

•Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Eitzabeth C. Fesley

Employee Social Security Number

207-45-8089

Effective Date

March

20. 1978

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

• Appointment

I Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date äbove and ending

close of business_

Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

pocument Clerk

$14.000

# If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House.of Representatives), the gross annual.salary. shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—® Clerical or • Professional:

2. 7Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H: Res. 256 of 25€*congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) :

Position Number_

If applicable, Level.

Step_

I certify. that this authorization is not in violation

of 5. U.S.C. 31.10(b); prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_

March 12e

., 19_78

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member).

LOUIS

(Signature of Authorizing Official

STORES

(Type or print name of Auttiorizing: Official).

Chairman

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

• All appointments and salary adjustments for employees.under.the House: Classification Act and for.Committee. em-=

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee: on. the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House. Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity $

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits -

Payroll_--

00 as of _

•Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326

Docld:32243313 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen) *

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Elizabeth &. Feelay

Employee Social Security Number

207-46-8088

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

Effective Date

Hovenber

21, 8977

Type of Action

Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

•. Title Change.

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending.

close of business_

Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title. Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

Document Clerk

$12,000

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee"

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee. Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or • Professional.

2. I: Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. $65 - of 25€Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level

Step-

I certify. that this. authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C: 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

November 22

Date_

19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

Chaitman

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-:

ployees,-except those of the.Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration:

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity S_

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits -

Payroll _-

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee:

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326

Docld:32243313 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO :

Tom Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel N.e.M.

DATE: November 17, 1977

RE:

Elizabeth Feeley

This is to advise you that Elizabeth Feeley has

accepted a position as document clerk on the Martin Luther

King

Task Force, effective November 21, 1977, at an annual

salary of $12,000.

Please extend every possible assistance to Ms.

Feeley.

NW 88326

Docld:32243313 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that,

among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

елго С

signature of Employee

11/21/77

Date

NW 88326

Docld:32243313 Page 6

---

