# 180-10060-10481

## Page 1

....-=

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

: HSCA

: 180-10060-10481

: SSTAFF PAYROLI RECORD

:

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act oi

1992 /44 |5C: 2107 Motel. Cace#N 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326

Docld:32239489 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10481

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROL RECORD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 05/01/78

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

MCDONALD, JAMES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

PRINTED FORM

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box. 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326

Docld:32239489 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last)

James McDonald

Employee Social Security Number

047-34-7288

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

Effective Date

10/2/78

Type of Action

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

*Termination (Ar close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or • Professional.

2. L- Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.

_or 35s Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level

Step.

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Octobur 2

Date_

19

78

LOUIS figure of Authorizing Official

If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

CHAIR or print name of Authorizing Officiall

(Type or print name and title of above official

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $

ID

Benefits -

Payroll _

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326

Docld:32239489 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to

Any Current Member of Congress

Do 5/2/78

T0: SelecT Committee oN ASSASSiNATiONS

(Employing Authority)

I I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any

current Member of Congress.

father

nephew

mother

niece

son

husband

aughte

rothe:

father-in-law

sister

mother-in-law

uncle

aunt

daughter-in-law

first cousin

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepson

stepdaughter

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

• I certify that I am the

of the

(Relationskip.)

Honorable

(Name of Member to whom related)

NW 88326

Docld:32239489 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO :

Tom Howarth, Budget Officer

Elizabeth

Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM:

I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel A.M.

DATE: May 4, 1978

RE: Mr. James McDonald

Please be advised that effective Monday, May 1,

1978, Mr. James McDonald has accepted the position of

Senior Staff Counsel with the John F. Kennedy Task Force.

His effective

starting salary will be $38,000.00 per annum

and he will remain on the Committee payroll until on or

about October 15, 1978.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,

please contact me at your convenience.

ICM: J

NW 88326

Docld:32239489 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Bällpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

James McDonald

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Employee Social Security Number

Effective Date

5/1/78

Type of Action

047-34-7155

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close

of business_

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

Senior Staff Counsel

38.000

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U:S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or • Professional.

2. D; Special (Investigative staff of. Standing Committee) or Select. Committee: Authority-H. Res.956 Lof 95th Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.):

Position Number_

If applicable, Level.

Step_

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date--

May 1

., 19-78

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act. and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee.on. the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity S_

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits

Payroll.

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326

Docld:32239489 Page 6

---

