# 180-10068-10311

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

:HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10068-10311

RECORD

SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 3

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U5C 2107 Note).

ENERAL A 976 Date: 2075

NW 88326

Docld:32243277 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10311

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SCA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 06/17/77

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box: 1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326

Docld:32243277 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C: 20515

(Any erasures, corrections; or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

George Robert Blakey

Employee Social Security Number:

Effective Date

7/1/77

Type of Action

243-48-4536

Employing Office or Committee

Select Conmittee on Assassinations

• Appointment

K Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following informatión.)

Position Title

Chief Counsel sand Director

7

Gröss Annual Salary

$47.580.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate iteitt below.)

1: Standing Committee Staff-t Clerical or 'Professional.

2. L Special or SelectiCommittee: Authority H Res..

465

:of _95 th Congress.

3; Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number

_ applicable, Level.

Step--

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U:S.C. 3110/b), prohibiting the employment of.

relatives.

Date_

June 24

77

19_

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Charrman

(Title- If Member, District and State)

All.appointments.and salary adjustments.foremployees under the.House Classification: Act.and for Committee emi-

ployees, except those: of the.Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, mustie:

be approved by the Committee on House Administration: •***

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of. Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity S_

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32243277 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM:

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any-erasures, corrections, or. changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

George Robert Blakey

Effective. Date

6/17/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

243-48-4536

Employing Office or Committee

i Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select Committee on Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) •

Position Title

Chief Counsel and Director

Gross Annual Salary

$27,000.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.E Standing Committee: Staff-D Clerical or [ Professional.

2. La Special or Select Committee: Authority-H: Res.

465

__of

_95 Ch Congress.

3.

• Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer. of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level

Step-

1 certify that. this authorization..is.not in violation of 5 U.S.E. 3110(b); prohibiting: the employment of.:

relatives.

Date."

June 24

.19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chaiman

(Title

• If Member, District and State)

tax, cAll appointments and salary adjustments for employees. under the House Classification-Act and for.Committee-em=

ployees, except.those:of_the.Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on.the Budget/and the Joint-Committees,/must

be. approved.by the. Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House. Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity S_

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32243277 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

certification

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will theil become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

2010 FuABlahe

Signature of Employee

6-25-22

Date

NW 88326

Docld:32243277 Page 5

---

