# 180-10060-10454

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

... .....»

... ... ....

AGENCY

: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

180-10060-10454

RECORD SERIES

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 44 050 210

Motel. Canet N 89326 Date: 2025

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10454

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 06/06/77

PAGES

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

JONES, DIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS

:3

CURRENT STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JONES, Diana

Name of Employee

Address

Audross

Phone Number

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

6-6-77

Position Tillo

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

Level

Step

DAY OF MONTIL

TEN 213718 TE 671771871020721122 23

SSSSS

S

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1978

YENK

ANNUAL LEAVE

CATEGORY

1.0

1.5

2.0

BALANCE DROUGHT

FORVIARD

FRO!

PRECEDING YEAR

Annuai

Letic

sick

Leavo

a Postion Number

Heath

TT:

Jan.

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

June

July

AUG.

Scot.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

ACCRUED

THIS MONTH

/

/

AVAILADLE

THIS MONTH

Anrival

Leave

3

4

Sick

Leave

3

USF.D

THIS

MONTK

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

5

CALANCE

AT

CLOSE

OF MONIX

Annual

Leave

4

Sick

Leave

/

IMPLOYEE

INITIALS

or

A]

; ог

U or

= 0.5 day annual leavo

= 1.0 day annuai leavo

= 0.5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick leave

=

0.5 day administrative leave

= 1.0 day administralive Icavo

= 0.5 day unauthorized absenco

=

1.0 day. unaulhorized absenco

= 0.5 day leave without pay

1.0 day leave without pay

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 3

Terminated

5/31/78

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employed's Signatura

ture

(it employee reluses do sign, state reason below."

Chiel's Signatura

Approved:

Dale

Clark of the Mouso

Dalo

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with tho request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be tiled in the omployco's official personnel foldeí..

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter :

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

• (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Diana

N.

Jones

Employee Social Security Number

578-58-2498

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

Effective Date

5/31/78

Type of Action

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

El Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_

• (If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U:S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below:)

1. Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional:

2. ' Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H: Res.956 _of 25 tbCongress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level

Step--

I certify that this authorization is: not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

Date_.

ray

., 19_

78

Ilf appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity S.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits -

Payroll _

00

as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August ! 1977)

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer

Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: J. Charles Mathevs, Special Counsel V. C.M.

DATE: May 4, 1978

RE:

Termination

Please be advised that effective Friday, April 28,

1978, Mrs. Diana Jones resigned from the Committee staff.

Her effective termination date will be May 31, 1978,

and will include any annual or sick leave she is entitled

to .

If you have any questions concerning this matter,

please contact me at your convenience.

ICM: j

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Diana N. Jones

Employee Social Security Number

578-582498

March

1, 1978

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

• Appointment

•Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary-Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

Secretary

$16, 000

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of. Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or [ Professional. :..

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 256-of 251 Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level

Step-

I certify that this authorization

is

not. in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date__.

March

14

19.

78

LOUIS

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - if Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House. Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration...

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity S_

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits

Payroll

•00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee.

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter.

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last):

Effective Date

Diana N. Jones

6/6/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

578 58 2498

Employing Office or Committee

[ Appointment

O Salary Adjustment.

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Secretary

$12,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff -[ Clerical or J Professional.

2. 0 Special or Select Committee: Authority - H: Res. 465

-of_95th Congress.

3. E Joint Committee.

6-377 17 221

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item. below.) :

Position Number_

If applicable; Level_

Step

1.certify that this authorization is.not. in violation..of: 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting: the employment.of

relatives.

Date

6/6

...1977

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member; District and State)

..All appointments and salary.adjustments.for.employees.under.the House.Classification.Act.and for.Committee.em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee. on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must,

be approved by the Committee on. House Administration....;

APPROVED:

did la

i can'

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity S_

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

DATE :

RE :

CHAIRMAN STOKES

TOM LAMBETH

June 7, 1977

Diana Jones

I recommend approval

of the attached which will bring the size of

the clerical staff of the king unit up to that of the Kennedy unit.

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MEMORANDUM

TO:

Tom Lambeth

FROM:

Robert J. Lehner

DATE:

June 2, 1977

SUBJECT: Diana Jones

I recommend that Diana Jones be employed as

secretary in the King Unit at $12,000 annual salary,

effective June 6, 1977.

EMH : ek

Pain he

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

kel. 14197)

Date

NW 88326

Docld:32239462 Page 10

---

