# 180-10096-10399

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/14/20

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10096-10399

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 009532

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

TAYLOR, GARY.

DATE: 06/11/1978

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

DE BAHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE.

TAYLOR, GARY.

OSWALD, MORING; ASSOCIATES AND RELATIVES.

OSWALD, LEE; POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD; ASSOCIATES &

RELATIVES.

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/21/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 175. Outside contact report.

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

44 USC 2107 Notell Case#N 89326 Date: 2025

v9.1

NW 88326 Docld:32256841

Page 1

1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

009532

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1.

Identifying Information:

Name GARy EdwArd TAyloR

Address 3716-ColE RUE

City/State Dallas, Texas 75204

Date of Birth 12-24-39

social security 456-58-3508

2. Physical Description:

Height 6 feet

Weight

Ethnic Group WhiTE MAliz

Date 6-11-78

Place_30° PN/

Telephone

MOr S

MARRIid

Spouse

CyNTRiA MARIE TYlOR

Children

Color Eyes GRAL

Hair bROwn

Special Characteristics

3. .

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment: (CAb DRIVER) YEllow CREiCo.

Address Dralles

, TExAS

Telephone

b.

Criminal Record

1. ArrestS 2-AeRESt FOR LOITERiNS IS58- DISTRISSTEO

2. Convictions i FoR loctak, 1962- Find

4.

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name MoThER - RilA MARiE TAyloR (NEE ESpiN)

Address 4/235-NorthCrest Rd.

DAllAS, TEXAS

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks: BEll-Boy PagER-Call-94-743-28 72

PAgER # 859

Investigator

lassice /Bar

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 2 Date

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 6 - 11-78 TIME 300PN

I.

Identifying Information:

Name

Address 3716- ColE AVE

Taylor

Telephone 214-536-8/151

j02- DallAs; TiEXAS

7520%

Type of Contact:

Telephone

" Person

II.

Summary of Contact:

Supre un to renew Statement

and to intermen the uiteas i

III.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

NW 88326- Docld: 32256841t Rage: 3

• Enrm

€5

---

## Page 4

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name

Gary Edward Taylor

Address 3716 Cole Avenue, #102,

Dallas, Texas 75204

Date June 11, 1978 Time 3:00 p.m

Place

Holiday Inn, Regal Row,

Dallas, Texas

Interview:

The purpose of the interview of Mr. Taylor was to

review his Statement and to interview the witness.

This inter-

view took place on Sunday, June 11, 1978, at 3:00 p.m. at the

Holiday Inn, 1575 Regal Row, Dallas, Texas. Mr. Gary Edward

Taylor, date of birth 12-24-39, who is the employed as a taxi

cab driver for the Yellow Cab Company in Dallas, Texas. Tele-

phone number at work is 426-2626. Mr. Taylor stated that he

met Lee Harvey Oswald and Marina Oswald in early September of

1962 in Fort Worth, Texas. In describing LHO, Mr. Taylor stated

that he was not a very nice person to know.. He was never light.

hearted nor did he ever make jokes. He was not a very sociable..

person. Mr. Taylor stated that during the time that he knew

IHo, he had talked with him only on a very general basis about

his stay in Russia. Taylor stated that Oswald had never dis-

cussed his ever being debriefed by the KGB while he was in the

Soviet Union. Mr. Taylor said that he had never heard LHo men-

tion that he had attempted to commit suicide while in Russia

nor had he ever noticed any scars as a result of that attempt.

Mr. Taylor stated that LuQwould talk about Russia and his stay

Interviewer Signature

- Каине

Typed Signature_ Clarence J. Day

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 4

Date transcribed 6-23-78

BY: _ bE Form #4-A

---

## Page 5

Gary Edward Taylor Interview

Page 2.

in the Soviet Union only in a general way and would never be

specific. He talked about the society as a whole but never

about his position in it. Mr. Taylor had the impression that

Oswald did not like living in the Soviet Union. He stated that

LHO did mention that he had worked in a radio factory while

in Minsk and stated that he made metal

chassis. He described

his job as being.that..of

a sheet metal worker. However, Taylor

stated that Oswald did not go into any details concerning his

work..

Mr. Taylor described Oswald at this point in the inter-

view as being a very superficial person. He described him

as "like a kid coming to school without doing his homework."

Mr. Taylor further recalls that he (Mr. Taylor) thought it odd

that LHo did not know how to drive a car. Taylor stated that

he had been asked by George De Mohrenschildt and a friend of

the De Mohrenschildts by the name of George Bouhe to teach LHO

how to drive. Taylor stated however that he has no knowledge

of Oswald ever learning to drive a car.

Mr. Taylor stated that LHO talked only in general terms

about where he lived in Russia. He did mention living in Minsk.

but gave little insight into his living conditions.

Taylor

stated that he got a feeling that. Oswald lived under average

conditions.

He stated that Oswald had mentioned that he made

the minimal wages, which were about

forty-five rubles a month.

He went on to state that he had spoken of having only one pair

of shoes and one coat. Taylor recalled that LHO had never dis-

cussed with him what his social life was like while he was in

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Gary Edward Taylor Interview

Page 3.

Russia and he added that IHO was "a person of few social

graces" and that he appeared to be a person who had no time

for people in general.

He described him as being untypical

and as being a person who was self-motivated to personal ef-

forts or personal goals.

Mr. Taylor reflected that he could not understand the

interest that George De Mohrenschildt showed towards LHO dur-

ing this period. He described De Mohrenschildt's actions as

giving Oswald money, helping him by giving him clothing and

then by virtually forcing Oswald on his friends, that is, the

friends of De Mohrenschildt. He also stated that De Mohren-

schildt spent a great deal of time with LHO. Mr. Taylor said

that was

difficult to understand because George De Mohrenschildt

had children and

a family of his own and he had never done any

of the things that he had done for LHo for his own family. He

stated further

that this interest was out of character for

George De Mohrenschildt, considering that 1HO was a "nobody."

Mr. Taylor stated that LHO had never mentioned having

any contact with the KGB. He stated that Oswald could not

understand why the Russian Government was not interested in

him and he believed that this hurt LHO. Taylor stated that

sometime about six months before the assassination, he had

visited Marina at their apartment on Neeley Street in Oakcliff.

but Lee was

not home at the time.

While he was at the apart-

ment, Marina had shown him a rifle belonging to LHO which she

got from behind the door. Taylor could not describe the weapon

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 6

---

## Page 7

=.

Gary Edward Taylor Interview

Page 4.

except to say that it was a rifle. He stated that he believed

Marina was afraid of IHO and during this visit she sensed that

she anxious for him to leave.

He recalled that he had seen

signs of Márina being battered by LHO. He had observed on occas-

sions bruises and abrasions which he believed were caused by

LHO.

Taylor stated that IHO never discussed why the Soviet

Government allowed him to remain in Russia or why they let

him return to this country.

This witness had no knowledge of any friends or associ-

ates of LHO other than those persons mentioned in the Warren

Commission Report. He stated that he never discussed the U-2

program with LHO. Taylor advised that he had no. knowledge

that LHO was an extensive reader. He recalled that he did

subscribe to and receive one Russian periodical. He did not

remember the name. He later stated that he recalled that Os-

wald did mention that he had read Lenin, Karl Marx, and Adolph

Hitler.

Mr. Taylor stated that he knew of only one interest.

that LHO had, and that interest was writing. He said that

LHO spent most of his spare time writing. He further recalls

that Oswald had given him a manuscript which he, LHo, had writ-

ten. Taylor said that he read a very small part of the writ-

ings and concluded that it was very poorly done and so he

never finished reading it.

Taylor continued to recall and stated while giving his

Warren Commission testimony, he was shown a manuscript by Mr.

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Gary Edward Taylor Interview

Page

5.

Jack Genner, Counsel for the Warren Commission, and that

he did not reconize: it as the one given him by LHo. He

further stated that about a year ago he was interviewed by

Edward Epstein, the author, and at that time he was shown a

manuscript by Mr. Epstein which he (Taylor) recongized as the

one given him by LHO. Mr. Taylor said he could think of noth-

ing LHO did or said that led him to believe that Oswald had a

motive for killing President Kennedy. He stated that LHO to

him was just an insignificant person.

Mr. Taylor, when questioned about his employment in

1959 or 1960, stated that he had worked at a

number of jobs dur-

ing that time. He was a student in college and he recalled that

one place he worked was the stockroom in J. C. Penny's Store in

Dallas, Texas. He could not name his supervisor. Mr. Taylor

stated that he had worked for R.C.A. Service Company at Redstone

Arsonal, in Alabama, as a sound engineer and that he had trouble

getting a security check clearance; however, he had later: gotten

the clearance. When asked if he knew Donald Waltrum, Jack Moore,

and R. K. Johnson, or Sigmund Andrews, Mr. Taylor said that he

knew them all except Donald Waltrum.

Taylor said that he had lived two doors down from Jack

Moore when he lived at 3245 North Crest, in Dallas, Texas.

Moore at that time was living at 4241 North Crest. He admitted

knowing Moore since 1951. He stated that Moore's children and

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Gary Edward Taylor Interview

Page 6.

his children are friends. He advised that Moore is now re-

tired from a family business. The family business was selling

surgical supplies.

The business carries the family name and

is still in Dallas, Texas. Taylor stated that his son and

Moore's grand-daughter are now dating each other.

R. K. Johnson was a close personal friend of Taylor.

He was a free-lance photographer who had taught him photo-

graphy. He had worked for Johnson as a free-lance photography

assistant at 3507 Travis Street in Dallas, Texas. He stated

that he met Johnson in 1957 when he became interested in motion

pictures.

Johnson was in that profession at the time. He

stated that Ralph Johnson died Easter Sunday, 1967.

Mr. Taylor said that he met Sigmund Andrews in 1957

when he was involved in motion pictures and he stated that in

1960 Andrews came to Dallas and they worked together doing

industrial and motion picture advertising for Keitz Herdon

Company in Dallas. His former wife, that is, Andrew's former

wife's name is Norma, and she is now married to William Holiman

who is the assistant agent in charge of the Dallas Field Office

for the F.B.I. He stated that he has not seen or had contact

with Andrews in quite some time, for over a year, but that

he has

seen Norma Holiman recently. Mr. Taylor stated that he

had worked for Sellers Company or Sellers T.V. Studio .at 2102

Johnson Street in Dallas, Texas. in 1963 and 1966. He stated

that he worked as a sound engineer and that there were only

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Gary Edward Taylor Interview

Page

7.

three people in the company, a man by the name of Ken Brown,

and J. E. Sellers. and himself. The company was involved in

making television/motion picture advertising.

Taylor

stated that he knew of no employee of the Sellers

Company who: was acquainted with, associated with, or even

knew LHO. Near the end of this interview, Mr. Taylor

asked me

if the Committee had George De Mohrenschildt's papers from his

estate. I made no comment and Mr. Taylor stated that, asked

me, in other words, if I knew that. there was a confession among

George De Mohrenschildt's papers. I still made no comment.

Mr. Taylor then stated that he had been told by Alexandra

De Mohrenschildt, his former wife, that there was a confession

among George De Mohrenschildt's papers, and he indicated that

that fact was the reason why John, Jane and Alexandra De Mohren-

schildt were fighting so hard in the courts to obtain possession

of George De Mohrenschildt's estate, papers and all. Mr. Tay-

lor was very cooperative during this interview. He suggested

very strongly that some member of this Committee contact and

interview his former wife, Alexander De Mohrenschildt. He

stated that if there was any way that he could help in the in-

vestigation, the Committee is free to contact him at any time.

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 10

---

