# 180-10070-10155

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

:HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10070-10155

RECORD SERIES

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

teleased under the John F. Kennedy Acsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 051

107 Notel. Case# NW/ 89826 Date: 202

NW 88326

Docld:32244097 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD

NUMBER

: 180-10070-10155

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 03/21/78

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS :

HSCA; ADMINISTRATION

SHAPIRO, HOWARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

:

CURRENT STATUS

3

P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX. 3.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326

Docld:32244097 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last)

Howsre Louls Shapiro

Employee Social Security Number

114-44-4360

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

12/31/78

Effective Date

Type of Action

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

•E Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close

of business_.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or l] Professional.

2.7E Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res?55

or 5th: Congress..

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level.

Step

I certify that this authorization

not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_.

January 2

79

-, 19_----

ilf appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

LOUIS stored duhorizing Official

STORES

print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and Stote)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must.

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:_

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

ID

Benefits

Monthly Annuity $

00 as of -

Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32244097 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action: :

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date:

Howard Louis Shaviro

Employee Social Security: Number

3-21-78

Type of Action

114- 44v 4360

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

[ Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title. Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_

- (If.type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

Researcher Attorney

$13,000

* If.employee.is a civil service annuitant (includes. U.S.House of Representatives), the gross annual salary.shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional.

2. 0 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of _95tCongress.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level

Step-

I.certify that this authorization.is

not in violation

of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date -

Rarch 23

19

78

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) .

т...

• (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOURS STOKES.

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees. under.the House.Classification.Act.and for Committee em-.

ployees, except those. of the. Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity S_

Benefits

Payroll __

.00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326

Docld:32244097 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO :

Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

Elizabeth Berning,

Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathevs, Special Counsel V. eM.

DATE:

22 March 1978

RE: Mr. Howard Shapiro

Please be advised that effective March 21, 1978,

Mr. Howard Shapiro has accepted the position of Research

Attorney with the John F. Kennedy Task Force, HSCA. His

effective starting salary will be $18,000.00.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,

please contact me at your convenience.

ICM: j

NW 88326

Docld:32244097 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to

Any Current Member of Congress

Date 3/23/18

To: Hoase Select Comm. on. ASSASSmAtionS

(Employing Authority)

I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any

current Member of Congress.

father

nephew

mother

niece

son

husband

aughte

wife

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepson

rothe:

father-in-law

sister

mother-in-law

uncle

son-in-law

aunt

aughter-in-lar

first cousin

rother-in-la

half-brother

half-sister

7 I certify that I am the

of the

(Relationship.)

Honorable

(Name of Member to whom related)

GRO

oward I. Shapin

Imployee

16-78695-3

Shapiro

NW 88326

Docld:32244097 Page 6

---

