# 180-10060-10498

## Page 1

..-.

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

: HSCA

: 180-10060-10498

:

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 1

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Teleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 05C 210;

Lotel. Case#N 88926 Date: 2025

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10498

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM

:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 09/26/77

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

PARISI, LOUIS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E, FAUNTROY D.C

STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

MARLES TONE NEOR

ACHRISTOPHER J, DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

MHAROLD E. PORO.. TENNI

#FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

PROBERT: W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

H.D. House of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

December 11, 1978

Major Raymond J. Brennan

Administrative Officer

New Jersey Division of State Police

P. 0. Box 7068

West Trenton, N. J. 08625

Dear Major Brennan:

This is to officially notify you that the services of Detective

'Sergeant Louis Parisi with the Select Committee on Assassinations will

topallose of business

a lose i busine ch

terminate at the close of business on Friday, December 22, 1978.

Your letter to me of October 4, 1978 billed the Committee for Mr.

Parisi's services through September 22, 1978.

At your earliest convenience, kindly bill the Committee for the

period September 23 through December 22, 1978.

I'm sure that the New Jersey State Police will hear from Chairman

Stokes concerning Mr. Parisi's valuable contribution to the Committee.

In the meantime, I wish to thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely yours,

Thomas HearTh

Thomas Howarth

Deputy Staff Director

and Budget Officer

TH:ht

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C: 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on. this form must be

initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives::

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Louis Parisi

Employee Social Security Number

070 34 8584

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

Effective Date

Septenber

26, 1977

Type of Action:

Bfi Appointment

• Salary Adjustment.

• Termination (At close of. business on effective date)

(If type of. action is an Appointment:or Salary Adjustment; complete the following information.).

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Investigator

$7,236

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. E Standing Committee: Staff-E] Clerical or • Professional.

2: 18 Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res..

465

-of_

95 t Congress.

0407. 005 4

3.

I Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level_

Step-

I certify that this authorization is not: in violation of: 5 U.S:C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_

September 26.

1.9đ

eb

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louts Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments. and salary adjustments for-employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must:

be approved by the Committee on House Administration. •

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code._

Monthly Annuity S_

00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 4

---

## Page 5

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MCKINNEY. CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT. W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.D. House of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 18, 1978

The Honorable Frank Thompson, Jr.

Chairman

Committee on House Administration

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

I have approved a salary increase of $1,980.00 per year

effective April 1, 1978 for Louis Parisi, a staff

investigator

for the Select Committee.

As Mr. Parisi's basic salary and benefits are paid by

the New Jersey

State Police, his additional salary from the

House is paid in the form of a monthly expense allowance per

prior agreement with your staff and the Clerk of the House.

This was to avoid Mr. Parisi from earning retirement benefits

from both the Federal Government and the State of New Jersey.

Accordingly, Mr. Parisi's monthly expense allowance will

increase from $625.00 to $790.00 effective April 1, 1978.

SineeKe

LOUIS STOKES

Chairman

LS/ thw

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel, Staff Director

DATE: April, 11, 1918

Salary Adjustments

Please increase the salaries of Louis Parisi

and Ida Jane Ross seven percent (7%) effective

April 1, 1978.

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 6

---

## Page 7

September 27, 1977

The Honorable Frank Thompson, JI.

Chairman

Committee on House Administration

H-326 Capitol

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The Select Committee on Assassinations has hired

Mr. Louis Parisi as a staff investigator at an annual

salary of $28, 000.

In order to protect Mr. Parisi's pension and other

benefits with the New Jersey State Police,

he will be

carried on the State's payroll while he is assigned to

the Select Committee.

New Jersey will bill the Committee at an annual

rate of $20,764 so that Mr. Parisi's stipend from The

House of Representatives will be $7,236.

Mr. Parisi will be working full time for the Select

Committee and will perform only those duties assigned

by the committee.

Sincerely,

Louis Stokes

Chairman

cc: Finance Office

IS/th

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 7

---

## Page 8

55.070-348

8584

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

Professor Blakey

Edward M. Evans El.

Chief Investigator, MLK

September 22, 1977.

OK:

SUBJECT: Louis Parisi, Investigator, MLK

6-22-98

Mr. Parisi has agreed to take a position with us as

Staff Investigator assigned to the Martin Luther King, Jr.

Task Force.

He will start September 26, 1977 at $28,000.

innual to lew jersey

state Polde

20,764

7.236

Salary-Aruf Rf

annual

Aved with we know the amount ae

have to rebuse the News Jersey state

Police - somowhere around $20.000.

The

balance will be his Congressial story.

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

10/26/11

Parisi is to he a

member of the staff a of

9/26/27, but his salary mill

nat he sncluded on sus

payiall. 'He wiel he

deckersed lay sericke

each mouth to canc

his salary. CRu Par

Hawaith.

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees,

Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

Guide

sansi

Signature of Employee

9-26-77

Date

NW 88326

Docld:32239506 Page 10

---

