# 180-10143-10062

## Page 1

180-10143-10062

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

minivani

FIES

SECRET

Nesto I 5-26

Heptancel

Taylo

Donald Walls

-Net

-taped

hanks Wooton

Elied. Turner

- 1964-

Tap

Jole - and 1 196) -

ta

march 1964 FBJ

sighed transcupt

Jape on Crwedd

1960- in late monter a hall

190% 887 in do i te cods a let

Rastrusin - Hell'

ErPRET

10143-10062

---

## Page 2

had notting on LHe in con day townste

spot interesting. townst (y aurican

) intelligene Conna

) Fed gor worke

z) specds on kussia

4) Stadit, stad

yeng Russia

relature,

3) Am l Rosto 1a Russia - Sir leverage

i walch groups for suspicioes prizel

into not interesting

with in FCD archne.

11

" contrel in

not any portion- place work

see Intonst daccut

store at to da Sectio -

Dikes - depite t

he the nothing

I doesn't tike it

went oy higher

List

tels atomist do tain do

not intesting.

lity phon

anties for us on Lt defete

No would have saved

SECRET

---

## Page 3

ait waite

SECRET

Botkin hosp dok there

said lets have prich check him - give alert

RUS

-z psych

use SoP ANGB do get porch

Got said mental mistable

N sow reports

jugs

1% each

But neg and stet tat

hi a chen I tep the

Do some w CHO I lone out

sentely table

Is never spoke this - Sor Red cain till

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

go do him

is sheer has orded to go to Kib

darelate for powers

5C0 - Area Diatrite

mar

for sheet carnst

tiral

Keep utt no had pullet,

quen pension

Red Cross

pension - 700 Potte

= 7811e

dage made - must poper Mast

ded not decide us. Moxous

I to Minsk

ay defecter -

And 1 489 prepae papa tri Musl

SECRET

---

## Page 5

Musk Must

SECLi

I Replen get checking wonk

P.K.

E ferdual superla es - KoB gents follow hin

Kha the did I see fil In 1963.

typed up-N sees it

with a supro

Dee 1952 - to den Rept

1962 - Back do 7th Dest

1963- Chef 1 Sectin regathe for acto tournt

Welery - call for FED

"shows cabli

fron ther

pose do chit 1 Dept -

ale then N Sippies won in

Cherias - Che do N. Jec

SECRET

---

## Page 6

alert i done in office

SECRET

N didn't

go to

ched

Dept

mes cow deny have do be a nitrted A markage

not was to send cable like the to Morow

made decision

1, Cheet poll that

tell the dosed whatever of hart

tell

h had intact anth A

1 I tallel herond pople in Misl

- tell he hosed fils by med please

the shed y intact o/LHO- tell no"

weed fassur - no contact a kerothet

the hew case. did thave

file SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

a tall to MinsK tor 3n 4 min

- told it contact of utte

had fole 1-1% 1.

Leat file is tant pert

wit fuge by page

lad demy in file done by Mark

for b mete

He sher-old Nite want to Must

201 3 de aft Assass.

Let like to word hilled with

this a when Lie waked

-the hid shot

uncle to CHO

ily I the time ot on take

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

3/2 his on thider 1 165

30 min, about tHe

1462-

Pete Begy

Exorge

-1964 - Bugley

Garge

Nick

In Grant Maphy-C56 Diu - Gone 1 Days

Eatin is- Bailey

FBI Tapor

NicK

Poptanch.

John

wate

1967 Solie

Brown

19758118 CF Steffe

Khalanis

Hock Tovan

McCoy

Gilen Harvey

Vas Gemakin

1969-71--M7, Repen =

1978 Pet-Palmentec

nstucts in wonk us, Chance

by K6ß

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRLI

Fit lie Pecten test

1967

sand OK- willy do take it

said all Cit free

take it- he seep tere

sulat of Wash

pubise

nithy to eat a dink

"- John

telling 1 doable giones - plants

withe lack I fre theres

All he do tae clotte -go to with hid

white shut

parts

slos

She is Jon C in

In take he do he let peron

John leaves

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

I chai t egapset

asked he questins. -

that in Russian

Le det man "dong tis fot"

ted yesters fust t que seand time

Hen then Returns t short-you are Lying.

no questions oN LHO

haller days

sley/

Pepst about Dup-see Hast

tot I by Protes 627 - 25 fate

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Bagh, goes 10-12 peep forger to

514.

I sep the treate ches

natan a confession

refuses to sigh

hange stake -Lost 4olhs

TB stated to Recen

no typed was - 3% yes

Te No N0-167-1467-Chotiy

photo eue memory

Tax fry Ply in is

19k6nb? Lad to Rom - the man

weang clotte,

plyigh man - la detect dueter

make he arien

tell dont those astrity

1h. A quetas

afte tast-told he was Lying

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Solve 1968- told beatad

-fast- Sole a grasse

Several dep a question

deny Posite

He questions

in ile fant dog

CORe

back net day no hostilty dering

Hesie.

Jests

pers, ser daylon Gai do face

= Cant judge somen on paper- mot

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Nos It

I Preta ten defector lested

not infesting - are handful defeton

alad to many sor wine o love Resire

case d So defier dear Mere,

Return kus.

SECRET

---

