# 180-10068-10317

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10068-10317

RECORD SERIES

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Beleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210r Note)

Case: Nk 98926 Date: 2025

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10317

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

T0.

TITLE :

DATE: 12/29/76

PAGES : 12

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

BROWN, CLAIRE, L.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BROWN

C.1

Nino Of Employee

Address

Addrass

Flione Number

Position Title

Lovel

OFFICE OF THE CLERK

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1977

YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

12-29-76

ANNUAL LEAVE

CATEGORY

1.0

1.5

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

Step

Months

2.0

ACCRUED

THIS MONTH

DAY OF MONTH

7101TATTST TTTTTOT20217223 247257267 277

20

30, 31

Annual.

Leave

Sick

Leave

/

/

/

AVAILABLE

THIS MONTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

Position Number

Month

112317

51 6

Jan.

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

" May

Jane

c July

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

= 0.5 day annual leave

or

A

or

U

or

= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick leave

0.5 day administrative leave

= 1.0 day administrative leave

= 0.5 day unauthorized absence

= 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 3

USED

THIS MONTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANCE

BROUGHT

FORWARD

FROM

PRECEDING YEAR

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

-

BALANCE

AT

CIOSE

OF MONTH

Annual

Leave

Sick:

Leave

EMPLOYEE

INITIALS

2

2

3

4

6

7

8

AAAX XXXXX XX

8

8

8

esmini ated

9/20/17

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employce's Signature

Date

(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

Chiel's Signature

Approved:

Date

Clork of the House

•Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I

---

## Page 4

., CLAIRE L. BROWN

5021 Seminary Road, #1104

Alexandria, Virginia 22311

CAREER OBJECTIVE

(703) 379-1379

Voting Residence: Georgia

To develop and improve communication, understanding, programing, and/or policy

between the Federal Government and State and local agencies and associations.

EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

• Extensive experience evaluating and interpreting Federal education legislation

and regulations to determine the impact on State and local educational agencies.

• Congressional and Executive liaison to Senate, House, and education associations

responsible for analyzing and evaluating legislation and Federal regulations.

• Related experience in curriculum planning and educational research and in library

and education programming on the local, State, and Federal level.

• Reviewed with education association executives, the impact of pending legislation

on their interest group.

• Five years experience as a public school librarian and teacher.

EDUCATION

Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia, 1965.

B.S., Ohio State University, 1969. (Education)

M.S., Boston University, 1970. (Library Science) (Audio-Visual Education)

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

PROGRAM ASSISTANT, Office of Libraries and Learning Resources, U.S. Office of Ed.,

Washington, D.C.

Researched and analyzed completion reports,

compiled statistical

information, and wrote a comprehensive national summary of public library con-

struction from Federal funds. (1976)

over the U.S. Wrote annotated bibliographies of specialized materials on women

and on the mentally and physically handicapped. (1976)

CONSULTANT, D.A. Lewis Associates, Inc., Clinton, Maryland. Researched, wrote,

and developed contract proposals in response to U.S. Gov't. R.F.P.'s, particularly

in library and Indian education programs. (1976)

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Committee for Full Funding of Education Programs,

Washington, D.C.

Served as principal personal assistant to the Exec. Dir. and

worked with him in all phases of the operation. Worked as liaison with Executive

and Legislative branches of government for other groups interested in educational

funding (public schools, universities, libraries, handicapped, etc.) to coordinate

an effort for full funding of education programs on a Federal level. Initiated

legislative communications (phone & letter)

to inform members and association

executives of pending bills. Attended hearings and meetings, reviewed and analyzed

Congressional Records and Federal Registers, and managed the financial records of

the Committee.

Collected and organized bills, reports, and background materials on

pending education appropriations and budget legislation. (1975)

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CLAIRE L. BROWN

PAGE 2

LANDLORD-TENANT INVESTIGATOR, City of Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia.

Served as liaison between landlords and tenants in disputes, and as an authority

on Virginia housing regulations. Achieved recognition for outstanding negoti-

ations between a tenant and the Virginia Power Co. (VEPCO). Resolved problems

dealing with rent increases, utility bills, and the absence of landlord-tenant

contract-provided services. (1975)

STAFF ASSISIANI, Senator Herman lalmadge (Ga.), Washington, D.C. Helped to edit

the final volume of the Watergate Report, and assisted with bookkeeping concerns

on the Watergate Committee. Drafted legislative correspondence for the Senate

Agriculture Committee in response to constituent requests. (1974)

ASSISTANT LEGISLATIVE AIDE & CASEWORKER, Congressman Gus Yatron (Pa.), Wash., D.C.

Investigated and responded to constituent concerns in legislation, and to their

problems with social security and black lung disability benefits. (1974)

SCHOOL LIBRARIAN, DeKalb County School System, Decatur, Georgia. Achieved

recognition both locally and system-wide for implementing the "open-library"

concept in media centers. Responsible for all reference, acquisitions, cataloging,

and processing of materials. Member of curriculum planning committees

for all

subjects, grades 1-7 and planned course curriculum content for library training.

Supervised, managed, and trained a large staff, analyzed school and community

needs, and held budget conferences with administrators.

Designed and implemented

all policies within the library, prepared bibliographies, and conducted special

research projects for the principal and led seminars for librarians. (1970-1974)

GRADUATE ASSISTANT, to the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, School of

Education, Boston University, Boston, Mass. Collected and organized statistical

data used in evaluating various programs at the University, drafted and edited

documents, and served as coordinator for public relations activities in relation

to the University's centennial celebration. (1969-1970)

TEACHER, Columbus Public School System, Columbus, Ohio. Taught all subjects in

the inner-city to low-income 2nd/3rd graders.

Worked with different Federal low-

income programs and officials, including ESEA, Title I, and Headstart. (1969)

ASSOCIATIONS AND HONORS

Georgia Association of Educators

American Library Association

Pi Lambda Theta, National Education Honor Society

Dean's List

Alumni Associations of Ohio State and Boston Universities

Member and active participant in the Smithsonian Institute and the Kennedy Center

HOBBIES AND INTERESTS

Travel, Current Events, Photography, Guitar, and Reading

References upon request

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 5

---

## Page 6

LOUIS STOKES, ONIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHAPOSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE; OMIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNESERATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES ONE, NEAR

•.:: CHRISTODHER J, DODD. CONN.

HAROLDS. SAWYER, MiLFt.

HATOLD E, FORD, TENN.

"FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT.VY. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

M.D. House of Riepresentatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

August 23, 1977

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director

House Select Committee on Assassinations

3342 House Office Building, Annex 2

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Professor Blakey:

Pursuant to our conversation of yesterday,

August 22, 1977, and my subsequent conversation with

Donovan L. Gay, Chief Researcher, of August 23, 1977,

I hereby tender my resignation with the House Select

Committee on Assassinations effective Septemoer 20,

1977.

I have enjoyed my work at the Committee and I

hope that my research as well as that of others will

aid in finding the truth and in bringing a satisfying

end to these investigations.

Sincerely

Claire L.Brecon

Claire L. Brown

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U:S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures; corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official:)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last):

Claire L. Brown

Employee Social Security Number

258 72 6151

Effective Date

9

9/20/77

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinacions

• Appointment

[ Salary Adjustment

Ã] Termination (At close of business on effective.date).

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) :

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$15,000

Researcher

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) n

1. Standing Committee: Staff -L Clerical or La Professional.

2. [ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res..

465

95th

-of_

-Congress.

3. L Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete.item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level _

Step--

I certify that this authorization is not in violation: of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_

Septerber 15

-, 19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification, Act: and for Committee em-

ployees; except.those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee: on the Budget; and the Joint .Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use.only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity S_

.00

Copy for initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C: 20515

(Any érasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Claire L. Brown

Employee Social Security Number

258 72 6151

5/1/77

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee

• Appointment

E3 Salary Adjustment

0 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type. of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$15,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1: Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or • Professional.

2. L& Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.

4,65

_of 95 th

-_ Congress.

3.

_ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level.

Step_.

I certify that this authorization. is not. in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b); prohibiting the employment 'öf

relatives.

Date_

May _

10

-., 1.97?

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

Member, District and State)

*All. appointments and.salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee ém--

ployees, except those.of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, musti

be approved by the Committee on House Administration: r

APPROVED:

.. •Chairman, Committeé on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity S_

00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or. changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Claire L. Brown

4/1/77

Employee Social Security Number.

Type of Action

258 72 6151

Employing Office or Committee

• Appointment

[a Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$30, 000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. L Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or _ Professional.

2. [: Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res._ 465

:__of_95th Congress.

3.

I Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable; Level

Step-

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date-

April 29

- 19 !!

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

.All appointments. and salary.adjustments.for.employees under.the House. Classification. Act and .for Committee em-

-ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration:-

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use. only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity S_.

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee.

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C: 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Claire to

Brown

Employee Social Security Number

259 72 6151

1/3/77

Type of Action

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee

Select Committee on Assassinations

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(if type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

310,000.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. L Standing Committee: Staff-. Clerical or • Professional.

2. [ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.

95eh_Congress:

3. _ Joint Committeé.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

_If applicable, Level.

Step_

I certify. that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of.

relatives.

Date_

, 19_-

77

Sney 2

(Signature of Authorizing Officially"

enzaler

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chatman

Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-...

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must.""

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee ón House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Cöde

Monthly Annuity S..

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Commitiee

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 10

---

## Page 11

DUCB: 146

Rev. 8/71

DISTRICT UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION BOARD

send tolun

runer 36.11

MAIL CLAIM

S. S. No.

Claimant's Name

PART ONE

Ten men ote near at or the ate wont with hagen sunday a tea e

19.10 and ended Saturday, - Jan=:

For the calendar week shown above:

a. I was available for and actively seeking work

b. I was physically able to work

iv,

Yes

(1 Yes

c. I claimed or was receiving education, training or subsistence allowance

from the Veterans Administration

--

) Yes

d. I claimed or was receiving unemployment insurance benefits under another.

Federal or State Law --

e. I claimed or was receiving a retirement pension or annuity

f. I was totally unemployed -----

(

(

) Yes

) Yes

) Yes

(If your answer to item (f) is "Yes," do not complete item (g) below.)

g. I worked ( ) full time

( part time and earned, before deductions, $ 33.33

> No

) No

IS NO.

I15 No

12 NO

2. This claim is filed by mail because:

a. I became employed. Date uf employment.

Dec: 29, 1916

Bimployers Name US Hense of Pepresentatues, House Selet Committes on Asso ssinatins

Employer's Adres 3342 H.06.#2, Wastingta, DC. 2051S

• b. Other than employment. Reason

IMPORTANT: If you started to work during the calendar week claimed in item 1, you must have your employer com-

plete Part Two below.

I certify the above statements are true.

I am aware that the law imposes penalties for false statements made in connec-

tion with this claim.

Claire

1.71

Claimant's Signature

5021 Seminary 817/104, Alexantria, Va

22311

1/31/177

PART TWO

LOW EARNINGS REPORT-To be completed by the employer and delivered

to the claimant at his request.

1. During the CALENDAR WEEK beginning SUNDAY _ DeS. 26, 1976

and ending

SATURDAY _-

Jan. 1. 1977

-(NOT your payroll week, if different),

this employee worked & FULL TIME

O PART TIME

2. His gross earnings payable before deductions, which include tips, cash value of meals, lodgings, and all other remunera-

tion for that week were $ 83.33

3. If separated, enter date

Explain reason for separation -

4. Employer's Name UeS. House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassina-

and

tions

Address Washington. D.C.

20515

Jan. 27e 1977

Rebecca We

Martin-

(Person who may be contacted)

(Signature of authorized official)

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 11

---

## Page 12

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

•(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D:C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) -

maara die

320811

Employee Social Security Number

(Any erasures, corrections; or changes

• on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

Effective Date

Vasadoes day 1074

Type of Action

- • Appointment

- Employing Office or Committee

• Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

E3gear0?2r

Gross Annual Salary

$13,103.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.L L Standing Committee: Staff-[ Clerical or Professional.

2: 0 Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 22:21

_of_ful Congress.

3. 1 Joint Committee.

, (If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

:If applicable, Level.

Step-

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5. U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date -

29091906-21

, 1974

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

7163.703

001225222200243660

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

22.992-

Courteo mu Moanaedaatione

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for.employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 12

---

## Page 13

MEMORANDUM

TO:

All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE:

Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification

Eningti toation

relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current

The following are the relationships to be included in

the certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this

form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved

Richard A. Sprague

I am not related

I am related by the following relationship

laire d

Brown

gnature ot

Employee

xan: 1,1972

/Dat

NW 88326

Docld:32243283 Page 13

---

