# 180-10060-10447

## Page 1

it

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

180-10060-10447

RECORD SERIES

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements. All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Accascination Records Collection Act of 1992144 050

2107 Motel. Case# Nk/ 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10447

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO

TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/77

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

ISRAEL, MAURICE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 2

---

## Page 3

. 5.

-

November 15, 1978

United States House of Representatives

Select Committée on Assassinations

Personnel Office

Washington, D. C.

Re:

MaurIce Israel

SSN: 128-20-8996

Dear Sirs:

The above-named individual has stated on an employment

application to the City of New York that he was employed by you

from June, 1977 to March, 1978 and an Investigator. £ 9.

Would you kindly confirm this information in the space

provided on this letter and return it to me at your earliest

convenience.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Very truly yours,

Stanley N. Lupkin

Commissioner

The above information 1s correct: YES (

Employment was terminated voluntarily: YES

Remarks:

By: m1 1ared Houston

Director, Background

Investigation Section

NO

( )

see remarks.

NO ( ) see remarks.

11-20.78

Date

NW 88326 Doeld 2239455

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Maurice Israel

Employee Social Security Number

128-20-8996

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

• Effective Date

3/8/78

Type of Action

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

I Title Change

Diérmination (At close of business on effective date)

'Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

"Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annurtant (includes US House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or Professional.

2. /Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 879-of_25 t Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level.

Step-

I certify that this authorization is not in violation

of 5 US-C 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_

March 7

78

19----

(Signature of Authorizing Officiall

LOUIS STOKE

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title-ll Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annurty $

Benefits

Payroll _

.00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised August 1, 1977)

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO :

Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM:

I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel I.CM

DATE:

7 March

1978

RE :

Termination

Please be advised that effective Friday, March 3, 1978,

Maurice Israel will be terminated from the Committee payroll.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please

contact me at your convenience.

Termination Effectur 3/8/78

ICM: j

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 6

Sonny.

Address

Phone Number

OFFICE OF THE CLERK

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1978

YEAR

ANNUAL LEAVE

CATEGORY

1.0

2,5

2.0

DAI ANCE BROUGHT

"POSTON NUMEr

Men'h

ITTERTA

Jon.

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

June

July

AUg.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec,

DATE OF APFOINTMENT

6-27-77

-Sic

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

"Honing

OF MONTIL

101137N37TTTTST 20731732937272572627 27 307 3 Lea

TAS HON

Sick

Leave

LL

THYS WONTH

Annust

Leave

Sick

Leave

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANCE

Araual

Leave

Sick

leave

INITIALS

Termurite 3/8/18

DONG

= 05 day annual leavo

= 1.0 day arnual leavo

= 0,5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick leave

= 0.5 day adminisiralive leavo

= 1.0 doy administralive leave

05 day unautliorized absenco

= 1.0 day urauthorized absence

0.5 day leave without pay

1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employco's Signatura

Dutc

11l employee refuses to sign, state reason below.!

Chiat's Signatura

Dale

Approved: -

Clerk of the Mouso

Dalo

This record will be ierwaided to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with tho request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBITE

---

## Page 7

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM-

- (Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D C. 20515

authorizing official i

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action.

Maurice Israel

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Employee Social Security Number

Effective Date

6/27/77

Type of Action

128 20 8996

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

ll Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

I Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$24,000

Staff Investigator

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1. Standing Committee: Staff-[ Clerical or [ Professional.

2 # Special or Select Committee. Authority-H Res.

465

.of_95th Congress

3 = Joint Committee

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level.

Step_

I certify that this authorization is not.in violation of. of.5. U.S.C 3110(b); prohibiting the employment of

relatives

Date_.

June 23

, 1977

--

(Signature of Authorizing Officiall

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration -

APPROVED

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity S.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 7

---

## Page 8

ASRAEL

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees,

Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This

certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brotner

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

office immediately of

the change.

am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

L/ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

Signature of EmpToyee

Stal 6/28177

NW 88326 Docld:32239455 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatibes

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

July

8,

1977

Finance Office

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

To whom it may concern:

Please note changes of address for these

Committee employees:

Maurice Israel

(128 20 8996)

2601 South Glebe Road,

Apt.

2600-1A

Arlington, VA

22206

Burton A. Chardak

120 South Reynolds

Apartment 1-509

Alexandria, VA

(194 18 8264)

22304

Thank you.

sincerely,

Labeca W. Martin

Rebecca W. Martin

Chief

Clerk

rwm

----

---

