# 180-10104-10354

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/14/20

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10104-10354

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

009383

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOD

FROM: MILLER, JUDITH A.

TO:

BLAKEY, G. ROBERT.

TITLE:

DATE: 06/22/1978

PAGES:

22

SUBJECTS :

CIA.

OSWALD, LEE; PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD-MILITARY SERVICE.

NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE (1960-64).

DOD, FILES.

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT.

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3; Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/20/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 172.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW| .

38326 Dater 2025

v9.1

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20301

JFK

009385

June 22, 1978

G. Robert Blakey, Esq.

Chief Counsel

and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear Mr. Blakey:

Attached are fact sheets submitted by the Department of the

Navy in response to inquiries from the Select Committee dated

March 15. and 20 (date of receipt); April 12, 20, 28; May 3 and 9;

and June 1, 1978.

For your information, the Air Force, DIA and DIS have now

completed their reviews for information requested in all letters

received at DoD by June 6, 1978. With the exception of your May 8,

1978 request (on which a search is still proceeding), the Navy has

also completed its review for all information requested through

June 6, 1978.

The Army has completed its search efforts for the

first twenty-six of your letters, dated between December 27, 1977,

and May 11

The results of these searches have been made

available for review at this Department--with the exception of a

few items where further information has been requested

to permit

completion of the search.

Sincerely,

Xudy Tiller

Judith A. Miller

Assistant to The Special Assistant

Attachments

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FACT SHEET ON SELECT COMMITTEE REQUESTS FOR

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY RECORDS

Date of

Request

3/15/78

1.

Valeriy Valdimirovich Kostiko - no records identifiable

within the Department of the Navy..

2.

3/20/78

(received)

1.

Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko - no records identifiable within

the Department of the Navy•

William P.. Dolzel - no records identifiable.

2. Alberto Hernandez Hechevarri - no records identifiable.

3. Orest Pena - no records identifiable.

4. Rolando Pelasz - no records identifiable.

5. Clay Shaw - no records identifiable.

6. Kerry Wendall Thornley - no records identifiable.

7. Jonquin Villoda - no. records identifiable.

8. Luis Balbuena - no records identifiable other than what

DIA possesses (previously made available).

4/20/78 1.

Eleanor E. Archer - no records identifiable.

2. Anthony Colosacco - no records identifiable.

3. Herman Milton - no records identifiable.

4. John M. Geizzaffi - no records identifiable.

5: Maurice Lerner - no records identifiable.

6.. Gordon McLendon - no records identifiable.

7. Albert Meadows - no records identifiable.

8. Isadore Miller - no records identifiable..

9. Thomas R. Peasner - no records identifiable.

10. Victor Periera - no records identifiable.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Date of

Request

4/20/78

(con't)

4/28/78

(Ltr #2)

11.

Harry Raymond Pope - no records identifiable.

12.

Helen. Kay Smith - no records identifiable.

13.

John Eli Stone -no

records identifiable.

14.

Charles Tourine - no records identifiable.

15.

John Benton Turns - no records identifiable.

16.

Anthony Zoppi - no records identifiable.

1. Richard Cain - no records identifiable within the

Department of the Navy.

2. Jorge Alonso Pujol - no records identifiable.

3. Henry Savaadra - no records identifiable.

4.

l. Irving Davidson - no records identifiable.

5. James Plumeri - no records

identifiable.

6. Salvadore Granello - no records identifiable.

7. John La Rocca - The Naval Investigative Service (NIS) holds

a filé on an enlisted member of the U.S. Marine Corps by

the name of John Andrew LaRocca.. This individual is not

believed to be identifiable with "John LaRocca, Pennsylvania

mobster arrested in 1957", as he was born in 1948.

8. Angelo Bruno - The NIS holds a file containing the results

of a January 1978, investigation conducted at Naples, Italy,

concerning an individual named Angelo Frank Bruno.

That

individual's date and place of birth is listed as January

25, 1902 or 1903, at Licato, Sicily, Italy. At the time

the investigation Bruno. was incarcerated in a Federal

prison in the United States. Nevertheless, there is nothing

in the file which would indicate this individual is identi-

fiable as the Angelo Bruno, "'Philadelphia Crime Boss.'!

9. Sam Mannarino - no records identifiable.

10. Garbriel Mannarino - no records. identifiable.

11. Joseph Shimon - no records identifiable.

12. Sergio Arcaha Smith - file has been made available.

13. George Woodcock, Jr. - a copy of the NIS Report of Invest-

igation is available:

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Undated Committee Request:

1. Zack Stout - 1607642. Latest available maïling address pro-

vided Select Committee by phone.

2. George Arthur. Wilkins, Jr. - Latest available mailing address

provided Select Committee by phone.

3. Robert Augg - Identified as former Marine Robert Royce Augg -

1596827. Personnel record has been made available for inspection.

4. Nelson Delgado - Identified as former

Marine Nelson Delgado

1644884. Personnel record has been made available for inspection.

5.

Carson Roberts - Has been previously identified as Lieutenant

General Carson A. Roberts, 04463, U.S. Marine Corps Retired.

Mailing address previously provided the Committee.

6.

Thomas Arthur Vallee - 1114455. Identified as a former Marine.

Personnel record has been made available for inspection.

7. Allan 0. Thompson - Has been tentatively identified as a former

Marine by the name of Alva Owen Thompson.

Marine Corps personnel

record has been made. available for inspection.

8. Kerry Wendall Thornley - A former Marine with same name but the

date of birth of 4/17/38. instead of 4/19/38 has been identified

and a certified copy of Thornley's Marine record has

been made

available for inspection.

9.

John E. Donovan - A former Marine with same name but with date

of birth of 8/31/34 instead of 8/21/34 has been identified and a

certified copy of Donovan's personnel record has been made avail-

able for inspection. It was noted that correspondence in the

Marine Corps jacket indicated that Donovan joined the U.S. Army

subsequent to his tour with. the Marine Corps.

10.

Chief Warrant Officer Morgan - This officer has been identified

Captain Roger G. Morgan, U.S. Marine Corps Retired.

His

mailing address is Route 1, Sewalls Point, Jensen Beach, Flordia

33457.

Date of

Request

5/3/78

1. Colonel Mario Silvesto - no record identifiable.

2. Thomas Arthur Vallee - no record identifiable.

3. Gary Taylor - no record identifiable.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Date of

Reguest

5/3/70

(con't)

4.

Leonard Calvery - no record identifiable.

5. Jack Brown - no record identifiable.

6. Robert. Augg - all information previously forwarded.

7.

Zack Stout - all information previously forwarded.

8.

Richard Call - all information previously forwarded.

9.

Nelson Delgado - no record identifiable.

10. Aline Mosley - no record identifiable.

11. Pauline, Bates"- no record identifiable.

12.

Carson Roberts - no record identifiable.

13.. Adrian Alba - no record identifiable.

14. Mrs. G. Stanley Brown Vera. - no record identifiable.

15. Emmet Charles Babe, Jr. - no record identifiable.

16. Lt. Francis Martello - no record identifiable.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FACT SHEET ON NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE, 1960-64

With regard to the last two paragraphs of the undated request

received in the Office of the Secretary of Defense on March 20, 1978,

the Naval Investigative Service has been unable to identify any

personnel presently or formerly associated with its Service, or its

predecessor organizations, who were involved in the activities described.

In general, the monitoring of activities or the utilization of sources

within the Cuban anti-Castro groups in Miami and New Orleans during

the period 1960 to 1964 was under the primary jurisdiction of the

Federal Bureau of. Investigation (FBI) and the Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA) .

The NIS was established in 1966 under the Naval Intelligence

Command (NIC). At that time, the Service assumed the basic mission

of what previously had been known as the Investigations Branch (0p-921D),

and the Counterintelligence Branch (Op-921E) of the Security Division

(Op-921) of the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI). During the period

1960 to 1964, the primary activity of those branches involved criminal

investigations, counterintelligence investigations, and background

Contacts with both current and former NIS personnel knowledgeable of

the activities of both Op-921D and Op-921E during the period in question

revealed no recollection of assignment of agents or other employees to

maintain sources or otherwise investigate or monitor the Cuban anti-

Castro groups in those cities.

Their recollection was that the FBl and

CIA did investigate such activities.

As

further background, it is noted that the establishment of the

Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) in the early 1960's created shifts

of mission and personnel from ONI to that organization.

Prior to the

establishment. of the DIA, the structure of ONI included, in addition

to the above-mentioned Security Division (Op-921), the Intelligence

Production Division (Op-922) and the Administrative Division (0p-923).

The former, Op-922, was sometimes referred to as the Foreign Intelli-

gence Division and most of its functions were transferred to DIA."

That transfer of functions also included transfers of ONI personne!

and records.

OP-922H was the branch responsible for collection and

dissemination of foreign intelligence.

A knowledgeable individual

currently assigned with the NIC stated that the activities of Op-922H

included interviews of anti-Castro Cubans at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but

noted that any necessary contacts or utilization of anti-Castro Cubans

in Miami or New Orleans were required to be coordinated through the

FBI or the CIA, because of the jurisdiction of those organizations in

those geographical locations.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 7

---

## Page 8

FACT SHEET ON APRIL 12 REQUESTS CONCERNING LEE HARVEY OSWALD

The following information has been provided by the Naval

Investigative Service and responds to those portions of the April 12,

requests by the Select Committee for all records regarding: Lee

Harvey Oswald; any

and all records concerning.or referring

to investi-

gations into Oswald's background conducted by the 112th Military

Intelligence Group, circa 1963; a detailed statement explaining why

a photograph of Oswald in the possession of the Navy was contained

in an envelope marked "Received 14 Nov 1963" and "CIA 77978," and

answers to other questions regarding actions in connection with the

photograph.

A written list of those persons who were either connected with,

responsible for, or knowledgeable about the Office of Naval Intelli-

gence (ONI) file pertaining to Oswald is attached, as Appendix A.

All available records held by the NIS pertaining to Lee Harvey

Oswald have previously been made available to the Select Committee,

with

the exception of records which were originated by or under the

release authority of the Department of State, the Office of the Attorney

General, the ClA, the FBl, and the DIA.

The

latter records were

referred

to those agencies for processing and a direct response to

the Select Committee.

The NIS holds no records concerning or referring to investigations

into Oswald's background by the 112th Military Intelligence Group.

Copy pages of the NIS file numbered 253 through 255 (previously for-

warded to the Select Committee) consists of a U.S. Continental Army

Command (USCONARC) message.

It contains information concerning

Oswald which was provided

to the "112th INTC GP'' by an Assistant Chief

of Police with the Dallas Police Department.

Enclosure (1) to Appendix B is a copy of the envelope which the

Select Committee referred to in connection with a photograph of Oswald.

The notations on the envelope refer to a Chief of Naval Operations

(CNO) message with a date/time group of 251800Z October 1963, which

readdressed. a CIA teletype numbered 77978.

The ONI file on Oswald,

which is the file maintained by the NIS, did not contain a copy of

the CNO message in question, and it is not known why a copy of it

was not contained therein.

On 25 April 1978 a representative of NIS

obtained a copy of ClA teletype number 77978 of 24 October 1963

(enclosure (2), appendix B). That copy is in the format in which the

CIA has released it to the public in response to Freedom of Information

Act requests. Enclosure (2), is addressed to the Department of the

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 8

---

## Page 9

2

Navy; refers to a ClA teletype number 74673 of 10 October 1963

(referring the possible presence of Oswald in Mexico City), and requests

that two copies of the most recent photograph of Oswald be provided to

the ClA for purposes of determining whether he and the individual in

Mexico City were one and the same.

Enclosure (3) to appendix C is a

copy of CIA teletype number 74673 of 10 October 1963. It was also

obtained from the ClA on 25 April 1978, and is in the format in which

the ClA has released it to the public in response to Freedom of

Information Act requests. The ONI file on Oswald contained a copy

of a CNO message with a date/time group of 102012Z October 1963, which

readdressed CIA teletype number 74673.

A copy of that CNO message was

one of the documents referred by NIS to the ClA on 15 August 1977.

To respond directly to the Select Committee's questions, the

reason that a photograph of Oswald was at one time contained in an

envelope marked "Received 14 Nov 1963" and "CIA 77978" appear to be

that it was obtained as a result of the request of the ClA set forth

There is no documentation in the

Oswald file revealing the manner in which the identification photo-

graph of Oswald was obtained. References to the photograph appear on

copy pages numbered 268, 278, and 282 of the material that was for-

warded to the Select Committee. Those documents are dated 22 and 23

November 1963, the day of and the day following the assassination of

President Kennedy. The references to the photograph on the copy page

numbered 278 indicated that Admiral Taylor, who was then the Director

of Naval Intelligence (DNI), would "

....require at least two extra

copies of the photograph of Oswald, for forwarding by DNI to Mexico

City, by mail, and for Mr. McCone."

On 25 April 1978, the identification photograph of Oswald which

had been mailed to Mexico City, and the envelope in which it was

mailed, were viewed at CIA Headquarters, Langley, Virginia.

The

photograph was a 3"' x 3"' print which was stapled to a piece of paper

indicating it had been received at 1530, Mexico City time, on

26 November 1963. The envelope indicated it was mailed, Air Mail-

Special Delivery, by CNO (Op-923M) to an individual at the Embassy

of the United States of America, Mexico City, and was postmarked on

23 November 1963.

(In 1963, 0p-923M was the administrative code for

the General Services Branch, Administrative Division, ONI.)

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PERSONS KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT THE ONI FILE ON OSWALD

For purposes. of providing background in regard. to the list of

persons who were connected with, responsible for, or knowledgeable about

the ONI file. on Oswald, it is necessary to understand the structure of

the ONl during the period

starting when Oswald defected to Russia (1959),

to the time of the assassination of President Kennedy (1963). During

that period of time, the ONI (Op-92) consisted primarily. of three divi-

sions, the Security Division (Op-921), the Intelligence Production

Division (Op-922), and the Administrative Division (Op-923). As explained

in the fact sheet on the. NIS, the Naval Investigative Service was estab-

lished in 1966, at which time the personnel and basic mission of what

had previous.ly been known as. the Investigations Branch (0p-921D) and the

Counterintelligence. Branch (Op-921E) of the Security Division, ONI were

assumed. There was no ONI file on Oswald prior to his defection to

Russia. Because of his inactive duty/civilian status from. that time on,

the primary investigation jurisdiction in regard to. the counterintel-

ligence interest in him rested. with the FBl. This is the reason the

bulk of the ONl file on Oswald consisted of other agency and administra-

tive documents, and newspaper clippings.: The primary responsibility for

monitoring the file within ONI was with the Counterintelligence Branch

(Op-921E), or, more specifically, the Programs Section (Op-921E2) of the

Counterintelligence Branch. In reviewing the file in regard to identi-

fication of individuals who originated administrative documentation for

signature by individuals further up the chain of command, the names of

three junior naval officers appear.

had the period between Oswald's defection and the assassination. The

file identifies those officers as Lieutenant Junior Grade G. M. Fredrick-

i rape detect

This indicates that they probably

son in 1960, Lieutenant Junior Grade P. C. LeSourd in 1962, and Ensign

J. A. Hazelton in 1963. Other individuals who, because of their positions

within the ONI, or more particularly, their positions within ONI at the

time of the assassination of President Kennedy, would have become con-

nected with and knowledgeable about the file are:

Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor, USN (Retired), the DNI (Op-92)

Captain Robert P. Jackson, Jr., USNR (Retired), the Assistant

DNI for Security (Op-921) at the time of. assassination;

Captain Jack 0. Johnson, USN (Retired), the Executive Officer

to Captain Jackson at the time of

the assassination;

Captain John C. Lacy, USNR (Retired), Head, Counterintelligence

Branch (Op-921E) in 1959;;

Commander William H. Clark, USNR (retired), Head Counterintel-

ligence Branch (Op-921E) in: 1963;

APPENDIX A

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Mr. William Abbott, Civilian, Assistant to the Head, Counter-

intelligence Branch, during the entire period. of 1959 through

1963;

Mr. Prosser W. Palmer, Civilian, assigned to the Programs

Section (Op-921E2). during the entire period of 1959 through

1963; and

Mr. Donald R. Paschal, Civilian, assigned to Programs Section

(Op-921E2) in 1963.

The three junior naval officers have been more fully identified as

follows:

LTJG George Marsh Fredrickson, USN

Military Service Number (MSN) : 559112

Social Security Account Number (SSAN): 503-28-3599

Year of Birth (YOB): 1934

Last. Known Address (1966: 91 Reed Street

Lexington, Mass.

LTJG Peter Charles LeSourd, USNR

MSN: 638384

SSAN: 538-34-2364:

YOB: 1938

Last Known Address (1971): 1222 East Crockett

Seattle, Washington

ENS John Anthony Hazelton, USNR

MSN: 662076

DOB: 15 December 1938

Last Known Address (1972): 6333 Shoreham Drive

Madison, Wisconsin

The addresses of the other officers are as follows:

• Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor, USN (Retired)

Current Address:.

90 N. Lakeview Drive

Whispering Pines, North Carolina

Captain Robert P. Jackson, Jr., USNR (Retired)

Current Address:

Street Address Unknown

Metairie, Louisiana

Captain Jack 0. Johnson, USN (Retired)

Current Address: 195 East Stanford Street

Bartow, Flordia

Commander William H. Clark, USNR (Retired)

Current Address: 740th Street, Unit 209

Ocean City, Maryland

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Mr. William Abbott

Last known Address (1970):

2737 Devonshire Road, NW

Washington, D..C.

•

Mr. Prosser W. Palmer

Last Known Address (1967) :

4643 Seminary Road

Apt 303

Alexandria, Virginia,

Mr: Donald R. Paschal .

Current Address:

c/o DCI Security Committee

Community Headquarters Building

Washington, D. C.

20505

Telephone:

376-5580

The NIS has unsubstantiated information that Admiral Taylor is

terminally ill.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 12

---

## Page 13

ACT SHEET ON LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S SERVICE IN THE MARINE CORP

requested in undated letter received June 1, 1978

6.1. Oswald's level of security clearance was "confidential."

On September 11, 1959, a Security Termination Statement (OPNAV FORM

5511-14) was executed

by Oswald.

C.2. Oswald was separated from his unit overseas due to hospitali-

zation from October 27, 1957 through November 15, 1957, and again from

October 7, 1958 through October 15, 1958.

Oswald did not sail from Yokosuka, Japan, on September 16,

1958. He remained aboard NAS, Atsugi as part of the MAG-11 rear

echelon.

C.3. Oswald was confined at hard labor from June 27, 1958 until

he rejoined his unit on August 13, 1958.

For further clarification, Oswald received a sentence for

20 days confinement in April 1958 as a result of a Summary Courts

Martial. The confinement was suspended for six months. If Oswald's

conduct was satisfactory for the period of suspension the sentence

would not have been executed.

Oswald committed another offense in

June 1958, received another Summary Courts Martial and was awarded

confinement at hard labor for 28 days.

This second offense caused

the suspension of the first sentence to be vacated resulting in an

accumulation of 48 days confinement at hard labor minus any credit

for good behavior.

The offenses in April and June 1958 were those of:

Violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military

Justice; Violate a lawful general order by having in his possession

a privately owned weapon that was not registered.

2. Violation of Article 117, Uniform Code of

Military Justice; Wrongfully used provoking words to a Staff

Non-Commissioned

Officer.

6". ".

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 13

---

## Page 14

(HARVEY)

Dans of photo

11722e4)

MSG CNO

25/8005 061=

10 3/152

10h

NW 88326 Docld 32260796. Page 14

---

## Page 15

1. UPIT

: -ExT..

1.=.

PATS+- 300001:7983

TO . : - SEE BELON

FROM: 222

CON-:

INFO

XX

-TO :

D INDEX

O NO INDEX

0 FILE IN CS FILÉ NO

3

TROUTING

5

0 Ост 63 28

83 СОРУ:

CENTRAT, INTRLLIGENCE AGENCY

1Zz

R

ROUTINE...

CITE DIR

674673

DEPARTUENT OF STATE

FEDERAL. BURRAU OF INVESTIGATION

MOICES

DEDIPTINT OF THE NAVY

SUBJECT: LEE HENRY OSTALD

.. I..

LEXICO REFORTED THAT AN AUKRICAN MALE,

IDENTIFIED

AS/REN OSTALD, CONFACTED THE SOYIES ERASSY IN

LEXICO CITY INQUIRING WHETHER THE EURISSY. HAD RECEIVED

ANE NERS CONCERNING A TRUEGRAM WAICH BAD BEEN SENT TO

HASHINGTON. TES HERICAN HAS DESCEISED AS APPROXINATELE

:265404

35 YEARS OLD, HITE AN ATELETIC BUILD, ABODE SIT FERT TALIS

TITa A PESCOEG?. HAIRLINE.

2. IT IS BALISYSD THAT OSHALO LAY BE IDENTICAL TO LEE

SCARE OSHALD, BORN ON 18 OCTOBER 1939 IN NEY RIEANS, LOUISIANA,

A FORUER U.S. MARINE WHO DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET UNION IN

OCTOBRR 1959 AND LATER NADE ARRANGESENTS TEPOUCH THE UNITED

STATES EMBASSE IN MOSCON TO RETURN TO TRE UNITED STATES HICH

EIS RUSSZAY-PORE TITE, MARINA NIKOLASIA FUSIOVA, AND THEIR

COORDING

E PING OFFICERS

6 CONTINUED)

RELEASING OFFICER

LOLCTE

AUTHENTIEATING

OFFICER

PEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIRITED.

Copy lix

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 15

1.1

---

## Page 16

Malities

CA:3

SX,

: 17

CATE: :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CO

IN

TO

• INDEX

O NO INDEX

DI FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTING

5

6

DEFERREO

ROUTINE:

2т-.

•. і.2..

" CHILD.

_" INFO

PAGS TITO.

Manere

CiTE bIRAd

THE INFORUISTION IN PARAGRAPE ONS IS BEING DISSEMINATED

TO YOUR REPRESAUTATIVES IN URXICO CITY. ANY FURTHER INPORMATION

RECTIVE ON THIS SUBJSET HILL, BE FURNISIED YOU, THIS INFORMATION

IS BRING HADS AVAILABLE TO TES ILLIGZATION AND NATURALIZATION

SEBTICE.

END OF MESSAGR

INFO BASED ON

(IN 36017) |

.!: 1.

•?, '

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELESSING OFFICER

REPS 'UCTIO

_:

L Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE PROHIBI

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 16

- AUTHENTICATING

-

•OFFICER

Copy da.

---

## Page 17

INFORMATION REPORT

OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE,

10-21 JULY 1560

Partice matti Vantz

Cribetes

Perreral Contact

242-60

DATE OT ARFORT

30 JULY 1,60

RVALUATNN

F-3

icquest for assistesce by forsor Cuban azy officor

Ihis report covert the test of tro Cubes sationals de the afilCE of the loral...

Attacho:

do Backaround. On 18 Jol,

Dra Chies of the U.S. Haval lasalas to Venazuela called toe

Eeval Attache ani sald that| bro Cibras had approschod his 1n en rIsort to obtala

assistance in gotting vless

tha JoS. Ho stated thet bo had directod tbes to the

estIco of the raval attache.

20

Interdon. Shortly ther

tho too neE arrived

thomsolves as8

/SPECIAL HASDLIJI SERUINED

HOT/REIRASABLE TU FOREIGN SATIOSALS

'Tolnshans 32 07 92

Be possessed a velid Cuban pessport and atisted that ba ves nuttled to a Spanies arijoot abo

bad a valld Sparish pasaport: Claías his comdiather nas m Loctican und that he la a

Eraduato of Colubis Iniversity. Statod ho had been in tos Cubas diplomatic sorrico

balefty and that do prosently reprosented several U,S. fras in Veneziola, prlacily la

Colad.

Be tas ecuainted tith CHIÁV!IS Iron business calls he had nade et Vcrazuala

Hoval Headgearters selliar malfor egudprent.! In shorter lis sepers ho comosad a polloe

ty0e shiold.

-bea queried sisted that 11 mag: an honorary polloe biles of the leu fort

Poldoo, Edren to bis by Peal Taylor, thon he Bald vat Deputy Polica Comisdoner, TC.

Jirs or rants

SPECIAL

CIRCLATT

DISTAIDUTIONSY

Tici

3 toi

fort

Tast

1lcx, 1529

TfBl

ich

PAOCEANCO ABROATIOn

RETIRE

NOT HERS ELE

PHOULD ROS DE FROSYCE, DE

CSI. - COS 15 - COSP

catal

Chris

Consatient

COKSTS

70938

0782

1591E

Fit.

CORALSETT

CastestSentran

Free

Снаїк

inciter lapes

Citationes

Cord est Serfrec

T15

10734

10°36

09 43

0741

COSS

C?55

OFs$

1621

61

LES

Costerta

CaRISTAR

[C951

Battes

Serict

TARt

TINA HAVANA COMESA

GEMELANT CoRALN

50406-25 40G-25-196000

Declassifed/

Auth::.

DIRNIS

Date: 05-09-78 Unt 0215

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 17:

E34

art

OFTENTIAL

Brasset

BS

N3W

CONTE

TART: 029.)

5099408

373

AL:

2URT & 8 1970

---

## Page 18

ARMATION SEPORT

7000

ANT ACT

хатойт ра.

142-50

DATE

30 гоіх 1960

HA, CARACIS

Ho siotod that do vis a firsor Cabas day Captals 15i the Ballate suelse ood ded bete a

prasessional Dildler : Mthout polities.

Had boss afficer ls charris of tba hay tarachuent

tated that bo had bons arrasiad end jellad os 29 duss durlay tha big clousup sollenlaz toe.

altonge en to life al Frealdeal Borascotot.

Ho ves conflood for l6 diys asd salaasod I1sal1y

On LL JULY. 1U3IZÚAUTA des'ATasted by DIATFOL en 1 JUly sod oofloed oltiori charcos Da118

22 Jaly thes be ves salensod.

dE that ELSE DO VAS SITeS a "SElTOCONdUCTS" PLOSO & bY ESE

TeResaelso Maintry of Istastor dated 13 Jals, 1960 nad epdrag 15 Janary Isado.

21B IZARRERA SPAKA DIEDST DA INCLINS MNS 1E APPRITE KUEL ASCICHA DAS ROCESPARYLEE bLE tS aS

.They soro rakes to tho than Seetled dil the Consalite asd turead 07as to the llos Cantal.

Lag ZUSIZIRSTA appeerad vita his pepors partletty Millad

TOE C653 1A158

astorons to the U.s.

10 consul the shitod do additlonel laloration use soaded dod lat 1t mould probably be l

boata befoss laforestion upon ubica a vlas could be 1a5oad vould be recalted Iron HaTaas and

Washisgton. LEIZUilaTh sopraszad luE that he sald be plexod up and extradited biless thes

1550.

IDA HA:202410208 that the US, sAs fall of soloss and thet adscaTo antI-frEtrolled

Jould do Deraload siradlag the Benpal 10 Vanessale, Mala sooni bEll es LAss eonsiedraoLy

Os CArACRO Do 15 VAS eS the DISONtE os EnTeRa, Toy left aller boles discouraged by the Contal

eu the prompacte of a doctalos la tbo Dear futurEs ARCACHA did sot AppeEs tO vorTlad 105

Alesall and a chock proved that be had a valle tortot ties issuad te bla en l8 Acroabir, 1959€

JOE ISS N1rO,. bolid & SpaRlal sobjost, 10 griss l bots oraldarably sars dislieultre

SPECIAL HASDEIXO REQUIRE

• KIRISULE IU FOALICA SAIICHAI

ANS DENIMAN

NW 88326 Dold: 32260796 Page 18

---

## Page 19

INFORMABION HERORY

mailane

COSTIC UNTIL

§ure Inl9ra1t1298 Parsonal Contest

FA, CARICIS

142-50.

DATE

30 JULE 1900

5237.

aad S8lopd of tha liny attachs, la has uns os too Cabes partsers eod iccest isgudry sevanle

that thats 07181ra) coopaty to layaaa has bets expropriated by STRO, They stete tast Doll vel

aLonMor engleges as tbalsa bos tas salonzad a00o tinE ago.

al and testerdate

BOBE ER. Bo BUS

CAPB, IBE

EPROZAL HANULTUS REAUDIAS

DIDE EILZASARLI IL PTERICA BALIONALA

NW, 88326 Docld 32260796-Page 19

---

## Page 20

ROUTING

JA:F

EXT

DAE :: 23 CCT 1953

•O INDEX

30

GENO INDEX

5E FILE IN CS FILE NO.!

TO: DEPILENT OF TES MAYI

CENTRAE INIRITIGINCE AGENCE

2

3

19.10z

242÷63

a ROUTINE•

CONEC

INFO :

1O--

SUBJECT

INFO

SENBE ESTATO

'bril de 24445

CITADIR:

846.22.:

PERSISTE IS TAOS TO CIA DUE COLORIDA FO, TETS, DATO 10I

OCTOBER 106, 2OGABDTNG POSTAS PETE O SERO DE E CA

FEISSOA SE KONS SY SIZÃO EII DI DETEROL DOE JULI CRISEROSE SI II

TO COPIAS E TIE LOST PENETE PACTOORAPE TOU TATE DE SUZUESES

ITAL TIL DES COISTI SI LATITISISTENTE DO DE LEI GETLEUL TATA

2O DETERIE I3 TEX LUS OSMATO IN 3USICO CETT AND SUBBOT A3S 3ES

" 22S30 OS:

820 C 2558165

(IE 40357)

12400631

Durari rebai 10 - 6

CS COPT

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

Copy Ns.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 20-=

---

## Page 21

FACT SHEET ON RADIOGRAPH REQUEST

With respect to the May 9, 1978, request for access to

radiographs taken the week of November 22, 1963, at Bethesda Naval

Hospital by the same unit used to take radiographs at President

Kennedy's autopsy, hospital personnel have reported that none of

the radiographs are annotated to indicate the particular instrument

used; thus, no means are available to determine which radiographs

were taken on the same unit as that used during the President

Kennedy autopsy. Additionally, the radiographs unit used during

the aforementioned autopsy is no longer in use and after a search

could not be located..

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 21

---

