# 194-10013-10144

## Page 1

Date :

Page :

07/25/96

1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

B6613 Date: 03-18-2025

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

: 194-10013-10144

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

.ZF000003W - PAGES 1190-1191

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

USA

FROM

SICRRO CI/SIGSEC SPT BN.

TO

HQDA

TITLE

:

MESSAGE

DATE

: 09/11/82

PAGES:

2

• SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

WHITE, JOSEPH TIMOTHY

I RESTRICTED 1

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL, DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAL.

RESTRICTIONS

3

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PAGES 1190-1191 WERE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 22 SEP

94.

NW 88613 Docld:34531355 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-DEDICATED TE

*EXCELLENCE

CANNIES LONG

BE ALL YOU CAN BE

OTTCIONN RUEAUSA4920 2541633

INNEDIATE/, PRIORITY

0P 111630Z SEP 82

FM SICRRO CI/SIGSEC SPI SN (FGCM) CDR ET DEVENS MA //IAGPA-A-DE//

TO HODA HASH DE I/DAMI-CI!!

INFO COR USAINSCOM FT MEADE MO //IAOPS-OP//

COR902D MI GP FT MEADE MD //TAGPA-OP-1//

CORCI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MEADE MO // IAGPA-A-OPI//

CORMID CI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MONMOUTH # //IAGPA-A-40/1

BT

0490

SECTIQH-01 OF 02

RETION ADDRESSEE: NITE ACTION REQUIRED

INFO ADDRESSEES: DELIVER DURING FIRST DUTY HOUR

0909

SUBJECT: WHITE, JOSEPH TIMOTHY, PFC, 492-80-2196, DPOB: 5 NOV 61,

ST LOUIS, MO (U)

A. MSG,

IAGPA-OP-I, 0912407 SEP 82,

1. (U) SOURCE HAD NO OBJECTION TO THE RELEASE OF HIS IDENTITY TO

2. (U) ON 10 SEP. 82, JOSEPH C. MERLINO, 027-54-4638. 2LT., USAR

DPOB: 26 APR-62, BOSTON, NA, COMPANY BATTALION, 104TH INFANTRY

MASSACHUSETTS ARMY NATIONAL

GUARD, WAS INTERVIEVED AT THE UNIVERSITY

OF MASSACHUSETTS CAMPUS, AMHERST,

MA, CONCERNING SUBJECT. SOURCE

PROVIDED SUBSTANTIALLY THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION: (MSG PARA 3 THRU 12

MERLINO FIRST -MET. WHITE-ON 28 AUG-80, WHEN BOTH ARRIVED AT

KEMPER MILITARY SCHOOL & COLLEGE (KMSC), BOONVILLE, MISSOURI, AS

FRESHMEN (PLEBES), ASSIGNED TO DIFFERENT COMPANIES. MERLINO'S- LAST

CONTACT WITH WHITE. WAS ON ABOUT 28-SEP 81, TWO DAYS BEFORE WHITE

DROPPED OUT OF KMSC: THROUGHOUT ACADEMIC. YEAR 80=81-AND-DURING

SEP-81, MERLINO SAW WHITE DAILY, USUALLY AT FORMATIONS, OCCASIONALLY

IN CLASS, BUT MADE PERSONAL CONTACT ONLY ON ABOUT FIFTEEN OCCASIONS.

THEY ALSO MET BRIEFLY AT THE AIRBORNE SCHOOL,

FT BENNING, GEORGIA, IN

JULY 1981. THEY WERE WELL ACQUAINTED, BUT WERE NOT CLOSE PERSONAL

4. (C) MERLINO DID NOT KNOW OF WHITE'S FAMILY BACKGROUND OR FINAN-

CIAL SITUATION,

ALTHOUGH WHITE-DID NOT APPEAR TO HAVE ANY. FINANCIAL

PROBLEMS. NOR _DID MERLINO KNOW IF WHITE USED_ NARCOTICS OR ABUSED

WHITE WAS PHYSICALLY -HEALTHY-AND-FIT, BUT NOT ATHLETIC. HE

DID NOT-APPEAR-TO-HAVE-ANY_DEVIANT_SEXUAL_TENDENCIES-OR. HANG-UPS,,TO

INCLUDE -HOMOSEXUALITY

-WHITE VAS REPUTED TO BE A MORALLY STRAIGHT

INDIVIDUAL WHO VALUED-HIS-OWN_ HONESTY-AND INTEGRITY

HE WAS EXCEPI-

IONALLY-BRIGHL- AND CONSISTENTLY EARNED-HIGH-GRADES IN_ACADEMIC SUB-

JECTS AND MILITARY SCIENCE.

WHITE WAS ALSO A VERY SERIOUS. EXTREMELY INTENSE, AND HIGHLY

IDEALISTIC PERSON..

HE WAS USUALLY MILD-MANNERED, BUT WOULD GET

QUITE AGITATED DURING SERIOUS DISCUSSIONS:

-IN' PAPERS HE WROTE AND

DURING ING IN HISTORY CLASS, HE-EARNESTLY DEFENDED_THE MARX-

IST_ PHILOSOPHY OF_ EQUALITY.-

IN OTHER DISCUSSIONS HE REVEALED-AN-

ADMIRATION FOR-HOW ADOLF HITLER HARNESSED-THE-ENERGIES- AND NATIONAL -

ISM OF THE GERMAN PEOPLE. HOWEVER, WHITE DID NOT APPEAR TO BE PRO-

NAZI OR ANTI-SEMITIC.

IN FACT, HE SEEMED-TO-BE SYMPATHETIC TO MIN-

ORITY GROUPS IN THE U.S., AND THEIR BID FOR EQUALITY.

"6. (C) WHITE NEVER SHOWED ANY DISLOYALTY, TO THE U.S.. ALTHOUGH DUR-

•ING CONVERSATIONS HE WOULD CONSTRUCTIVELY-CRITICIZE_AND _CRITICUE

BOTH -AMERICAN SOCIETY_AND THE SOVIET-GOVERNMENT HE TALKED SERIOUSLY

AS THOUGH HE HAD HIS OWN PROGRAMS "FOR IMPROVING THE LOT OF OTHER

WHITE-NORMALLY-RESPECTED SUPERIORS AND THEIR AUTHORITY, AS

LONG AS THEY MADE SENSE TO HIM. BUT, HE WOULD BALK" AT OBEYING SOMEONE

ACTION DAM! (4)

INFO

AOC-DAMI WATCH(1) SCB REVIEW(1)

SECTIONAL IONAL(1)

PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER

FOR WHOM HE HAD LOST RESPECT. THIS TENDENCY LED TO AN

INCIDENT AT ROTC ADVANCED CAMP AT FORT RILEY, KANSAS, IN THE SUMMER

OF 81, WHEN WHITE REFUSED TO OBEY A CADET'S ORDER (NO FURTHER INFOR-

MATION), AND WAS ALMOST BOARDED OUT OF THE CAMP.

WHITE'S SERIOUSNESS, INTELLIGENCE, AND INTERSITY SEEMED

THREATENING TO SOME CADETS AT IMSC.

HE_ TENDED. TO_REMAIN ALOOF FROM

ON TOP OF THIS, HIS -POOR SKIN COMPLEXION: NERVOUS MANNERS

ISMS._ AND ERRATIC-DRESS ( ONE DAY - NEAT, THE NEXT DAY - SHABBY)

MADE WHITE THE BUTT OF DERISION AND PRANKS AT KASE.

CHE-MAS-OSTRA-

CIZED AND UNIVERSALLY DISLIKED.

HIS PEER RATING AT ROTC ADVANCED

" CAMP WAS REPORTED-TO BE-LOW.

8. (C) WHITE TRIED HARD-TO-SUCCEED IN EVERYTHING HE DID.

HIS SELF-ESTEEM WAS CONSTANTLY BATTERED BY THE ATTITUDES OF HIS PEERS

AND A STRING OF DISAPPOINTMENTS. OURING HIS FIRST YEAR AT KMSC HE

GOT INTO SEVERAL FIGHTS WITH OTHER CADETS., ALSO, HIS GIRLFRIEND (NFI)

BROKE-OFF THEIR RELATIONSHIP, ALLEGEDLY UNDER PRESSURE FROM HER

PARENTS. (WHITE PAPERED A MYRIAD OF PICTURES OF HER ON HIS DORMITORY

WALL.) WHITE DATED SELDOM, IF AT ALL. ONE OF HIS INSTRUCTORS, A

CAPTAIN DAVID, REPORTEDLY GAVE WHITE A ZERO FOR TURNING IN A PAPER

LATE, BUT DID NOT PENALIZE OTHERS NHO HAD DONE SO, AS SEVERELY.

CPT DAVID WAS THE TYPE OF PERSON WHO EITHER LIKED OR HATED OTHERS,

AND IT SEEMED THAT HE DISLIKED WHITE INTENSELY FOR UNKNOWN REASONS.

OPI.

FIW

FIS.

EX

70

ZOL

Let -o.

FIE

ISH

FI

ESI

ISS

FL =

BY CDRUJ-

AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

haulturnal

saw here.

3/SP

MCN = 82254/13958

ARMY SECTIONAL MSG

NW 88613 Docld:34531355 Page 2

TOTAL COPIES REQUIRED

6

1190

TOR= 82254/17012

TAD=82254/ 18552

DENITAL

CDSN=MAP 183

PAGE 2

OF

111630Z SE

SECT

01

OF

82

02

---

## Page 3

-DEDICATED

TO

*EXCELLENCE

IN

= COMMUNICATIONS=

BE ALL YOU CAN BE

OTTCZOVE RUEAUSA4921 2541633

IMMEDIATE

O P 111630Z SEP 82

FM SAICRO CI/SIGSEC SPT BN (FGGM) COR FT DEVENS MA //IAGPA-A-DE/1

TO HODA WASH DE I/DAMI-CI/I

INFO COR USAINSCOM FT MEADE MD //IAOPS-OP//

CDR9O2D MI GP FT MEADE MD //IAGPA-OP-I//

CORCI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MEADE MO !/IAGPA-A-OPI//

CORMID CI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MONMOUTH NJ // JAGPA-A-MO//

PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER

AND LOCATING SOURCE.

CLAS BY INSCOM PAM 380-6

REVIEN ON 11 SEP 92.

BT

FINAL SECTION OF 02

9. (C) AFTER WHITE'S NEAR FAILURE AT ROTC ADVANCED CAMP, -HE-MAS-RE-

CYCLED-AT_AIRBORNE.-SCHOOL FOR-FAILING THE PT-TEST.

HOWEVER, HE

RECOVERED AND COMPLETED THE COURSE.

WHEN HE RETURNED TO KMSC IN

SEP 81, HE WAS DEEPLY UPSET UPON LEARNING THAT HE WAS ONLY A CADET

SERGEANT FIRST CLASS AND NOT AN OFFICER.

WHITE WAS IN SOURCE'S

COMPANY (SOURCE WAS A CADET MAJOR). ON ONE OCCASION, DURING LEADER-

SHIP LAB, SOURCE CORRECTED WHITE WHO WAS IMPROPERLY EXECUTING THE

WHITE REACTED INDIGNANTLY AT FIRST: BUT AFTER

SOURCE EXPLAINED WHAT HE DID WRONG, WHITE ADJUSTED AND CONTINUED TO

SEP 81, ANOTHER CADET (NFI) TOOK ONE OF

WHITE'S BOOKS FROM HIS ROOM

PAPER ON THE CADET'S DORMITORY DOOR AND SET IT ON FIRE.

DOOR AND SET ON TIE. SOURCOILET

CAUGHT WHITE IN THE ACT OF SETTING THE BLAZE AND LAUGHING ABOUT IT.

MERLINO VERBALLY CENSURED WHITE AND THREATENED TO GET HIM DISMISSED

SHORTLY THEREAFTER, WHITE ADVISED THAT HE WANTED TO

HE WAS COUNSELED BY COLONEL JOHNNY PARKER, SCHOOL

PARKER ASKED SOURCE FOR HIS RECOMMENDATION.

SYMPATHIZED WITH WHITE BUT COULO NOT RECOMMEND HIM FOR A COMMISSION

IN THE US ARMY BECAUSE OF HIS APPARENT IMMATURITY.

10. (C) AROUND 26 SEP 81, BEFORE WHITE LEFT KMSC, HE TOLD SOURCE HE

WAS LEAVING THE SCHOOL.

WHITE SAID HE DID NOT WANT TO BE AN OFFICER,

BECAUSE HE WAS "FED UP WITH THE BULLSHIT AND THE ASS-KISSING".

ADDED THAT HE-WAS-GOING_TO_ENLIST_IN-THE_ARMY AND-BECOME *THE-BEST_

DAMN_NCO_HÉ" COULD BE" BY HIS COMMENTS AND HIS TONE" OF VOICE DURING"

THIS AND OTHER CONVERSATIONS, WHITE INDICATED THAT HE WASN'T GETTING

WHAT HE DESERVED FROM SOCIETY. SOURCE WISHED HIM LUCK AND NEVER SAM

11. (C) SOURCE-WAS-NOT-TOTALLY SURPRISED WHEN-HE READ-OF-WHITE'S

DEFECTION _TO-NORTH-KOREA.

IT SEEMED TO FIT IN WITH HIS PERSONALITY.

SOURCE GUESSED THAT WHITE'S ACTION RESULTED FROM THE CULMINATION OI

HIS DISAPPOINTMENTS.

WHITE-PROBABLY-BECAME DISILLUSIONED-WITH-THE

ARMY-OR_HIS_UNIT-AND-HAD PROBABLY_ENTERTAINED- THOUGHTS _ABOUT

DEFECTING-FOR SOME -TIME. HOWEVER, IT WAS MOST LIKELY ONE_PARTICULAR:

INCIDENT THAT PROMPTED HIM-TO TAKE ACTION, WHERE-ONCE WHITE WAS -A

FAILURE-IN-U-S-_SOCIETY. -HE-GAINED NOTORIETY-AND-AN INTERNATIONAL

AUDIENCE THROUGH-HIS DEFECTION SOURCE-BELIVED THAT-THE TEXT-OF

THE _ REMARKS-ATTRIBUTED_TO-WHITE BY_THE GOVERNMENT OF. NORTH KOREA.

SOUNDED LIKE-WHITE'S-WORDS-AND-MANNER-OF SPEECH,-AND_COULD_VERY_WELL.

HAVE BEEN AUTHORED-BY_ WHITE.- AT LEAST THEY PARALLELED-WHITE'S

"IDEALISTIC BUT NAIVE SOCIO-POLITICAL VIEWS.

12. (U) OTHER SOURCES FROM KMSC WHO KNEW WHITE BETTER OR WHO COULD

CONTRIBUTE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INCLUDED: COL JOHNNY PARKER,

(TEL: 816-882-5623), RICHARD J. HATCH, 2LT USAR, A NATIVE OF PEMI-

WHO KNEW WHITE BETTER THAN ANYONE, CAPTAIN MICHAEL R.

BASISTA, SGM JAMES MCKANE, AND MSG STEPHEN G. HINK.

13. (U) POC-FOR-THIS-REPORT-IS=S/A-ALFRED-M- MEMOLE _FORT-DEVENS:

CRESIDENT-OFFICE AV 256-2001, (ON LEAVE 13 THRU 17 SEP 82).

(U) DELAY IN REPORTING AROSE FROM DIFFICULTIES IN IDENTIFYING

ACTION ARMY SECTIONAL (1)

SECTIONAL (1)

•AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

TOTAL COPIES REQUIRED

1

MCN =82254/13955

1191

TOR= 82254/ 16547

TAD=82254/18542

NW 88613RD6cTd34531355Mpage 3

CDSN=MAP 182

PAGE 1 OF

SECT

02

OF

---

