# 194-10004-10396

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

09613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/14/98

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

INSCOM/CSF

: 194-10004-10396

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PAGES 58-59

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]

TO

TITLE

: 1 RESTRICTED J

DATE

: 11/18/68

PAGES

: 2.

SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (ASSOCIATE)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

@. o

NW 88613 Docld:34529212 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

A. REPORT OF FINDINGS

AGENT REPORTE

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

(DEVELOPED CHARACTER REFERENCE)

On 20 October 1968, Lucien

years stated substantially as follows:

Source and SUBJECT met in July 1966 when Source went to work

at MIAA and was introduced to SUBJECT who gave Source his orientation

regarding operations within the data processing at MIAA.

Source and SUBJECT

became good friends and rode to and from work together since they resided in

the same general neighborhood.

SUBJECT visited Source's home socially on a

few occasions, and they made visits to the United Nations and other cultural

sites together. Source had not seen SUBJECT since May 1968 when HE was

drafted into the United States Army.

SUBJECT is a native of Puerto Rico, but Source assumed that HE

moved to New York City when HE was very young inasmuch as HIS knowledge of

HIS native island was very limited, and HE frequently queried Source, a Virgin

Islander, concerning conditions in

Puerto Rico. Source met SUBJECT'S father,

HIS sister, and HIS brother, names unknown, on the occasion of the death of

SUBJECT'S mother in early 1967, when Source attended the funeral. SUBJECT

appeared to be very much attached to HIS mother and until her death most of

HIS time was spent between work and visiting HIS mother at the hospital.

SUBJECT never mentioned HIS father, and Source was not aware of his existence

until they met briefly at the funeral of SUBJECT'S mother. SUBJECT'S brother

was in the military service at the time of HIS mother's death and is believed

to have traveled from Germany for the funeral. Source believes that SUBJECT

received a deferment from military service because of HIS mother's illness

and the fact that HIS other brother was on active military duty. This gave Source

the impression that SUBJECT was the family's main support. SUBJECT is an avid

reader and has a keen interest in history.

HE is a high school graduate

and college at nigitfor a short period.

Source believed that HE attended New

York City College and took courses in history.

SUBJECT is not known to have

any organizational affiliations.

HE and Source have held many discussions

concerning local and world politics and MARTI has always staunchly defended

the basic democratic philosophy of the United States Government.

They have

also discussed the subject of Puerto Rico's welfare, independence or state-

hood and MARII has expressed the view that

Puerto Rico's welfare and that of

its people is best served under the island's present commonwealth status.

SUBJECT Is a very Intelligent.

friendly, industrious and responsible young

man. "HE appears to"

"be very mature in HIS thoughts and actions, and has had...

no known difficulty with creditors or law enforcement agencies.

Source

S. TYPED NAM

MARKING

IS TXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC TERMINATIONContinued

ATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

6 SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

I TPHONSO

E. MARSHALL, 10gt

* MT Gro

FORM

"APR 52 341

REPLACES WD

58

NW 88613 Docld:34529212 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AGENT REPORT

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

A. REPORT OF FINDINGS

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

does not know if SUBJECT uses alcoholic beverages at all because on the

occasions that HE visited Source's home HE refused

to have anything to

drink.

He is, not known to use habit forming drugs, and has manifested

no undesirable personal habits whatever. HIS main hobby is stamp collection.

Source does not believe that SUBJECT has traveled abroad since His

arrival in New York City, and Source has no knowledge of relatives or

business interest HE might have abroad.

Source unhesitatingly vouches for

SUBJECT'S loyalty to the United States. Source was unable to suggest anyone

who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Todman highly recommends that MARII be favorably considered for

a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

59

LURED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, * 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

DA FOR 341

REPLACES WEAS

SUrE UP IN. WHICH MAY DE USED.

NW 88613 Docld:34529212 Page 3

---

