# 194-10004-10356

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

BN613 Date: 03-16-2025

Date

Page

:

01/14/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10004-10356

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PAGES 5-6

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : LOOS, DONALD A

TO : CDR IN CHIEF, USA, PACIFIC

TITLE : I RESTRICTED ]

DATE: 04/08/69

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

RETENTION IN ARMY

BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION

PUERTO RICAN COMMUNIST PARTY

AMERICAN LABOR PARTY

CHARACTER REFERENCES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

INCLOSURE NOT INCLUDED. RECORD WAS REGRADED

UNCLASSIFIED ON 20 JUL 94.

NW 88613_Docld:34529172 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-==-

SEPARTMENT OF Tin

- ARMY

HEADQUARTERS, UNITED STATES ARMY VIETNAM

ARO SAN FRANCISCO

96375

IN REPLY REFER TO

8 APR 1969

AVHGB-C

SUBJECT: MARTI, Manuel (NN), PFC, US 52 773 870

DPOB:

17 May 1946; San Juan, Puerto Rico

SSAN: 093-36-4601

(U)

Commander in Chief

United States Army, Pacific

ATTN: GPIN-SP

APO 96558

1. (U) Reference paragraph 27a, AR 604-10:

2. (U) Based upon a review of the attached file, this headquarters considers

that SUBUECT'S retention in the Army is clearly consistent with the interests

of national security and, therefore, recommends that this case be closed

favorably under paragraph 27a, AR 604-10.

3. (C) Background and reason for investigation.

UPJECT'S father was re-

ported to have had the following CP association: 1939 to 1943, active in the

Puerto Rican Communist Party (PCP) in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico and President of

the Party in that city from 1941 to 1943; 1946, selected as PCP Organiza-

tional Secretary; 1948 to 1949, in charge of CP meetings in New York City;

1950, attended PCP meetings with marked regularity: 1951, belonged to the

Bronx County, NYC Section of the CP; 1952, registered as a member of the

American Labor Party (ALP) and showed preference for the ALP for two years;

July 1952, met with the PCP Labor Secretary and other Puerto Rican communists

in NYC; 1953, reported to be a CP member; 1956, sympathized with the CP but

no evidence of membership in the CP; November 1963 to April 1964, attendec

CP meetings; 1964, attended meetings and rally sponsored by the Emergency

Committee for Disaster Relief to Cuba; February 1967, approved äs a member

of the new Bronx County CP Committee; and in 1966 and 1967, attended meet-

ings of the Puerto Rican Commission of the CP. SUBJECT'S father was in-

terviewed by the FBI in January 1957 and July 1959 and denied being a mem-

ber of the PCP, the CPUSA, ever attending meetings of either organization,

or ever fostering their causes.

b.

(U) A favorable NAC concerning SUBJECT was completed on 23 September

1968. DD Forms 98 and 398 executed by SUBJECT on 12 May and 1 August 1968,

REGRADED YNCLASSIFIEI

: ON

10

ми и

BY CDR USAINSCOM F01/PO

AUTH Para i-603 DOD 5200.1R

NW 88613 Docld:34529172 Page 2

---

## Page 3

8 APR 1969

AVHGB-C

SUBJECT:

MARTI, Manuel (NMN), PFC, US 52 773 870

DPOB:

17 May 1946;

San Juan, Puerto Rico

SSAN: 093-36-4601

•(0)

respectively, were unqualified. Local agencies disclosed the information in

paragraph 3a, above.

CONUS and USARV limited investigations from 21 August

1968 to 25 March 1969 disclosed the following:

(1) Local agencies disclosed no record of SUBJECT or HIS sister.

local agency disclosed that in 1962, SUBJECT'S brother was a subscriber to

New Horizons for Youth, a CP publication. Three education checks disclosed

no derogatory information; an education source recommended HIM favorably.

Two employments were checked with favorable results; five employment sources

interviewed disclosed no derogatory information and recommended HIM favor-

ably.

(2) Nine character references disclosed no derogatory information

concerning SUBJECT and recommended HIM favorably. Five of the sources dis-

closed that no member of HIS family had ever been known to make statements

critical of the Us or to voice pro-communist views. One of the sources dis-

closed that HIS father occasionally brought home a socialist newspaper and

agreed with its comments critical of the US. On these occasions, SUBJECT

and HIS brother argued in defense of the US

and HIS father was not able to

influence HIS political thinking and beliefs.

(3) SUBJECT was interviewed under oath on 25 March 1969, and was

willing to submit to polygraph examination. HE stated substantially as

follows:

HE was anti-communist.

HE never participated in communist activi-

ties or knowingly associated with any CP members. HIS father was a democrat

but he did not always agree with party views or their candidates. HIS

father's political ideologies had

no influence on HIM. HE was loyal to the

Us and supported its Constitution in its entirely.

4. (U) SUBJECT'S ETS is 20 May 1970 and HIS DEROS is December 1969.

FOR THE COMMANDER:

1 Incl

Case File

Donald A. Loos

DONALD A. L.COS

ITC, GS

Actg Asst

Adjutant General

REGRADER UNG ASGIER

UN 20 ful 44

BY

Anth Para 1-003 Dou s2U0. 1-5

6

NW 88613 Docld:34529172 Page 3

---

