# 194-10004-10383

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

B8613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date

Page

01/14/98

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10383

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PAGE 42

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]

TO

TITLE : I RESTRICTED ]

DATE: 11/19/68

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (CO-WORKER)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529199 Page 1

---

## Page 2

- 27:

CADEN REPOR

(AR 381-130, FM 30-1

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

d. REPORT OF FINDINGS

amr

DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

(EMPLOYMENT CO-WORKER) On 24 September 1968, Albert B. Cassidy

JI., Personnel Director, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association,

733 3rd

Avenue, New York, New York 10017, who resides at 2939 Route number 2,

Browns Mills, New Jersey 08015, was interviewed at his place of employ-

ment concerning Manuel MARTI.

Source, who was associated with MARTI as

a co-worker at Mutual Insurance Advisory Association from April 1965 to

May 1968, stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in April 1965, when he interviewed MARTI

for employment at Mutual Insurance Advisory Association, and maintained

daily business contact with SUBJECT throughout HIS period of employment

with the aforementioned organization. Source had no social contact

with SUBJECT,

and last saw MARTI in May 1968 when HE departed the organi-

zation on military leave.

SUBJECT was employed at Mutual Insurance Advisory Association

from 5 April 1965 to 20 May 1968. HE was originally hired as a Utility

Clerk. HE was subsequently promoted to Utility Clerk Supervisor and later

to Tabulating Machine Operator.

MARTI enjoyed an excellent reputation

among HIS associates at HIS place of employment and everyone was sorry to

see HIM leave. Source would be happy to re-employ SUBJECT upon termination

of HIS military service.

SUBJECT was single and resided with HIS parents in Bronx, New York,

further details unknown.

SUBJECT'S mother, name unknown, died in

late

Insurance Advisory Association.

Source

has no further knowledge concerning

SUBJECT'S personal background, but believed that SUBJECT was of Puerto

Rican decent.

42

SUBJECT is of excellent character, integrity, discretion and morals.

HE is financially

responsible,

and had no

known difficulty with law enforce-

ment agencies during the period of association. SUBJECT manifested no un-

desirable personal habits, nor any sign of immaturity or emotional instability.

Source had no knowledge concerning the degree of influence exerted on SUBJECT

by HIS parents.

MARTI was never heard to express any radical political

views, and Source considers HIM to be pro-democratic in HIS political views

and loyal to the United States. SUBJECT has no known organizational

affiliations, and Source had no knowledge concerning HIS foreign travels,

foreign interests or relatives residing abroad.

Cassidy highly recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for

a position of trust

and responsibility with the unitea tates overnment.

• TYPES NAME AND

CARON I SECARINE TO EXCLAI

SIGNATURE: OF SPECIAL A

LAMENATAI

or.

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL,

108th

MI

Group (I-SIB) +

alert

C.

FORM

DA FOR 341

REPLACE

NW 88613 Docld:34529199 Page 2

---

