# 194-10013-10141

## Page 1

Date

Page

07/25/96

1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

28613 Date: 09-16-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10141

RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W - PAGES 1183-1184

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE : SWORN STATEMENT

DATE : 10/03/82

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

WHITE, JOSEPH TIMOTHY

I RESTRICTED ]

AFFIDAVIT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34531352 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SWORN STATEMENT

For use of thie form, 80o AR 190-451 the proponen agoney la Offloá of The Doputy (lof Staff for Personnel.

LOCATION

DATE

TIME

FILE NUMBER

COLINIBIA MISSOURI

3 OCT 92

1136

AST NAME, FIRST NAME, MIDDLE NAME

SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER.

GLAISTER

NENRY

DANIEL

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

547-76-1040

GRADE/STATUS

CPT

812 MARLEVOOD DR COLUMBIA MO 65201

1, LENEY

ANIEL

GLISTER ARE

_' MANT TO MAKE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT UNDER OATH:

I WENRY D. GLAISTER, 547.76-1040; EPIFA, RESIDIMES AT BIZ-

MAPLEWOOD DR, COLUMBIA MISSOURI AUTHORIZE RELEASE OF AGENT

REPURT, DA FORM 341,

. DATED 22 SEPTEMBER 1982

SUBMITTED BY-

NIE RAÚL J. LOZANO, SOZE NII GROUP CONCERNING JOSEPH TINIOTHY

WHITE,

MR NORVAL (NMIN) WHITE JA. (FATHER OF JOSEPH TINIOTH Y

WHITE

M1/1111I END OF STATEMENT ADDRIDIDI,

1183

EXHIBIT

IT ON ANG STATEMENT

PAGE 1OF Z

ADDITIONAL PAGES MUST CONTAIN THE HEADING "STATEMENT OF.

CONTINUED. "

THE BOTTON PACE MOST CON FACE MUST DING SHE TIMINES OF THE PERSON MAKING THE STATEMENT" ANT

BE INITIALED AS "PAGE.

DA, FOR

FORM 2823

SUPEREEDES DA ROAM 2028, 1 JAN 00, MHICH MILL DE URBO.

NW 88613 Docld:34531352 Page 2

---

## Page 3

STATEMENT (Continued)

NOT USED

I HENRY SANGE CALAISTER RE

EIDAVIT

(fir)

HAVE READ OR MAKE HAS-ABAO-TO ME THIS STATE-

MENT WHICH BEGINS ON PAGE 1 AND ENDS ON PAGE

• I FULLY UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS OF THE ENTIRE STATEMENT

THE STATEMENT IS TRUE. I MAVE INITIALED ALL CORRECTIONS AMD MAVE INITIALED THE BOTTOM OF EACH PAGE

:ONTAINING THE STATEMENT. I HAVE MADE THIS STATEMENT FREELY WITHOUT HOPE OF BENEFIT OR REWARD, WITHOUT THREAI

(Signatura ol Poraon Making Stateront)

WITNESSES:

-. 1982

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

INITIALS ON PERBON MAKING TATER ALD

•COLUMBIA MISSOURI

Faul & Bezane

Signatura al Person Admintararina, Dala

PAUL NO LUZAN

1184 Article 136(3), UMA

(Autharity To Adminloros Dolno)

DOR Z ON

#U.S. G.P.O.

1980-665141/1344

NW 88613 Docld:34531352 Page 3

---

