# 194-10014-10116

## Page 1

194-10014-10116

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSÍNATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date :

Page:

09/02/98

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10014-10116

DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AA851401WJ

- PAGES 20-21

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

:

TITLE : INFORMATION REPORT

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : CHARLES, CLEMARD J

UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/15/98

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA FOR RELEASABILITY

COMMENTS : DOCUMENTS DECLARED "NOT BELIEVED RELEVANT"

BY THE

CIA

AND AGREED TO BY THE ARRB, PER MEMO DTD 14 AUG 98.

NW 68037 Docld:34517497 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNFORMATUON REP

ORT UNFORMATIONN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of she Espioñage Laws, Tille

18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner lo an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-0-I-F-I-D-I-N-T-I-A-L

CONTROLLED DISSEM

GIA LINVARNAL USE OND

COUNTRY Faiti

REPORT NO

NO DISSEM ABROAD

A(S) 322

00-F

- 2: 14068-68

Clonerd Josoph-Charlon Isst Inico US $505

DATE DISTR

Luciani Labora la Can Facura Ila Lanking And Otter

Lodividico/Culina Di Cuarloa'0 Plcas/Prcsidant

NO. PAGES

Duraller Rapttally Lopca To InfOVa His Durge And

(1453)

To futract Earolga Cagital Arl Dubineca Activity/

Punceo Cautitus Concerning Possible Recrgeniration

REFERENCES DCS Cascade,

DEpENd to 00-3-521/2105-57,540

Or Haition Government

DATE OF INFO. Way 68

PLACE & DATE ACQPart -aU-PrInco

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

Naturalied US citizen of Haitian birth. Source raintains cloto contactt

with Haltione in the US on with promineut business and politicol/ligure

1n laiti and travels at Irreguler Intervala to the Caribbean countries.

1. ClIard Joseph-Charled was released fron pulcon during the evening of 25 Apr

68 1s ratura for o

"Tanson" of US $605 thousand.

2. Charica hoo tech Circa unt1l 24 May 60 to produce the US 4ú05 thoucan. Thie

cum tist ba do on Irtovocablo lottor of credit on en Amorican bank In favor

as the rational Loni of tha Ferablic of Halth. It has bocn istirated that

tho 24 lay 68 deadline can be ostendod, chould Charlos ba exportencing any

Ically umoual aifficultica in promelaz the required sonay.

3.. In orior to outain lio rolcase from pricon, Charlea bad to cion a mcorandu

al underatanding that ha would produce the US $605 thousand plus some

unidcntifici rcal yroperty.

Tache torus were agrecd to by both Charles an

baa vifo prio to tha rolcano.

At tha soma timo, Charles vrota a personal

lotto to Prosident Duvalzer coming for rolease and pronding to hand over

the money and property in question.

4. Charles 10 now under house arrest in Port-a-Princo, Haiti.

5.

Charlen's Inucalate rccourcos conslat of about US $100 thourand in cach 1n

two U3 banko (no s001110na) Guts avallablo), various homs, tussacesca

(essential o1lo, en crimobile dealerchip and othero (no enditional data avall-

able), balltinga, dont cod abous US $400 thousand worth of Haltion Coveriment

bonds. Lo 01d Lava choâbor US $300 thousand in forsonal fundo in Haiti. Fe

can so Longer count on thia money to help raice the Us fos thourand, korever,

beccuce Irior to bio relcasa fron prison the Haition outhorities (no addl

timal data evaliable) conflocated it.

6.

Charles has carced to raise the us $605 thousand on condition that it be uned

to tay ott legitimate claima al depositore in hia Banque Camerelalo d'Fasts.

Is has stated that he will pormit the monay to be jaid out only to those

dopositors who are able to produce documentary proar that they had deponited

funds in his bank.

020

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCEEDULE

UNFORMATION REPORT UNBORMATION REPORT

COLITIVITAL/ CIA INVARIAL USE CHLY

...- NO

The disseminalion of this document is limiled to civilian employees and active

duty military

porsonnol

within the intelligence components

of the USI8 member agencies, and to those senior ollicials of the member agancias who must act upon the information. Howover, unless spacilically controlled

«i Accordance with paragraph 8 of UCID 1/7, it may be released lo thosu components of tho departmunts and agoncios of the U.S. Government directly

music-pating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminaled to organiza.

ins or personnel, including consultents, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written pormission al the originator.

NW 68037 Docld:34517497 Page 2

---

## Page 3

air pond sons die.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

CONFINIMPIAL/CIA INTENAL, USE CANO DISSEM ABROAD

00-5-321/14668-68

•якрі

Có La Co có tha cia dircadero of tha copercilos vill la ua citazena.

canathlaz toñara tonal banisuatey occurs.

d'Ia1t1, will help attract such activity to Haiti and 1a therefore permitting

Charles to proceed.

9. (Callector's Loso: 00-3-321/12106-63 described a posalble rcorcesisation 1n

tha Lastian Curcamant Into scaryaniration, arousaicil by DatalicE, would

ploca Duvalict ce tho clavated piano de spiritual civicer caa fciler of the

peonie and voald, on the curisco, ot least, turn over to a president tha day-

toney Inagamont of Haltian coveramat eifairo. Vorloud sarza have been

mentiond for thio position a president under the possible nou syston. J

name of Lud-Albert Ioutard has rocently beca nantioned frequently in Faith as

tho posalble tor proalion unlar the runored recrization of the coverent.

Foucard 1s a son-ln-law of Duvaller ond lIven in Halts.

fe le in charge of

tourina.

Some say that Duvalier listens to Foucard and 19, to & degree,

Influenced by him. I doubt this very strongly.

-and

021

BOLUDER FROM GENERAL,

DECLAUSIFICATION SUI EDULE

COP INNITIAL/CIA INTERIAZ, USE OY

NW 68037 Docld:34517497 Page 3

---

