# 198-10009-10098

## Page 1

198-10009-10098

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10009-10098

RECORD SERIES :

CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.

TO: MULTIPLE

TITLE:

ICCCA: REPORT ON STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER

SUBVERSION

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

ICCCA - SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

CUBAN SUBVERSION

RESTRICTIONS ON TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA

SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 25. Memo from Califano to Wheeler, Sloan, Alger, Wendt, Carpenter,

Quilter re: attached paper concerning status of implementation of actions designed to counter Cuban

subversion.

JFKReview

epartment of the Army EO 135:

Declassify E Excluc

D Exempt

Authority.

v9.1

NH 50955

DocId: 32424708 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

SECRET

26 NOV 1963

MENDURING BATOR CARLIE EARLE G. WHEELER (JGS)

Mr 10

(egional Nilairo)

MAJOR CAMERAL S. D. ALOER,

USA

BEAR ADILAL W. F. A. WENDI, USH

MAJOR CUNERAL I. W, GARPENTER. I, USAS

BRIGADIEA CINERAL C. 1. QUATER, LENG

Interdeportmental Coordinatlog Gormlitoe of Cuban Affairs:

Report on Statas of Implementation of Actlons Designed to

Counter Fubversion (U)

Seference:

Da monodi, nibject as above; dated Haptesaber 19, 1963

Attached herevith is a final irit of the Report to the Precident of

the tubcommitten en Caban Bubversion on Progress Made Daring September

1963 in Curbtas Cuban tubveroion la Latin America.

It Le reguested that comcacuto.

i any. bo procided take office by

1200 houro, 2 Decomber 1963. The Departzsat of Deleine portion of

mabject report is baced sa suicisciona provided to response to referanced

memorandur

Signed

Jesaph do Califaro, Jro

Joseph A, Calliano. Jr.

Genezal Cornsel

Enclosese

As Hated

CC:

Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)

It Col Hair.

Mr. Califano

ASG

OSA, ASC Control No. 270711

NH 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 2

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING

DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

---

## Page 3

DRAFT

11/13/63

SECRE

ENORG 9E THE SIE-COUMITTLE

OR QUEAL SUBVERSION

ANTION TAREN

DURING SELTINEME 1953 EN CURBING

CURAN SUBV

ERSICK LA LATIN AVERICA

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DRAFT

11/13/63

I Control o5 Travel to and From Caba

Departa

of Stake

.:.

Instructed Inbassy Tunis to call to the accention

of the Foreign Miniatry our concern at inorcesed evidence

of boratlot attenpts to establlsh Morth Airica routes to

Cuba, especially through Algeria, and our conviction that

Tuniola has & valld case in Smarting any Dloc civil eis

penetration of Atrica.

Do Instructed Babassy Gonakay to contact Guinean Covera-

ment officials, renanding then of thest past assurances

chat so heroslot flights to Cuba vould be peritted to

use Gouakry facillties, and to empress our concer at

recent indications that Aezoflot was preparing to establish

serviee by Cuba via Conakry.

Instzucted Consulate Fort au France to Investigate

and report on alleged landing and refualling of Cubane

aircraft et Guadeloupe. Aleo double-checked directly

with she Shell Coumany, the suppller of the fuel.

Instruated Inbussy Paris to query the Jzench Coverraent

about allegod Cubana une of the Guadeloupe facility, and

to express es concen at this evidence of Cubale attent

to uc French Caribbean dependencies for flights to and

Fron

NH 50955 DocId: 32124708: Pagé 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

from Latin America:

Instructed Inhasay No to make & saw approaca to

the Frazilian Foreign Ministry to express our concora

at Cuba's continuing use of "charter" flighte to Brazil

and the laxity of Erazilian ofElcials in the control of

passengerss: During the course of the rooth the Brazilian

Covezzment bogan tightening conczole against Subann

flighte. Specifically, all requests fos landlag permission

were henceforth to be processed by the Foreign Office,

wich appropriato delays. Also tighter passenger, erew

and cargo controls vere to be Instituted when a Cubans

flight 1s pernicted to use Brazilian Facilitles.

C. Daternined that the Uk, had epecifieally warned

Cubma that no aviation fuel was avallable in Barbados and

that 3.1.0, would, la tho future, respece Shell Company's

decision to deny fueling to Cubana planes.

f. Continued Inter-Departmental astorte to provene

zesumption of forzy service betucer Cuba and the U.S.

which a britten eltion, Harold Derbor, we been attempt

ing to establish during the past several month.

SIER

WH 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SACRONE

8 6

Instructed Consul Georgetom to Invescigate and

teport on evidence the Department toceived which Indientes

that Caba 1s planning to sell merchant vessels to British

Gulans In order to Facilitate the establistment of

regular service for passengers and cargo.

Central Intellinence Abenc

do In connection with the Seventh Congress of the

Internacional Union (UIA) held la Habana September 29

October 3, 1963 the Buenos Area Station:

(1) encouraged the Argentine National Fedezation

of Architects to oppose Argentine attendance ar the

Habane meeting, wich the recult that 25 of cha 39

practicing architects uto had planted to attend car-

called their participation;

(2) arranged to prevant the attendance of any

officially authorized Argentine delegation at the labana

meeting, but encouragod the attendance of an official

Argentine delegation of anti-Coumniac coloration at an

international architecta necting to be held in Mexico

15 Ooteber;

(3)

SECREE

NH 50955 DocId:32424708 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SEGREE:

(3) delivered & memorendum to the Minister of.

Interior concerning Cuban charter flights to Brazil which

supported the Ambascador's request that the Argentine

government express concern over such flights.

bo Elo de Janeiro Seation continued to furzish

the Imbassy wich data on Cubena flights to Bravil used

In representations to the Brazilian Foreign Office.

Also induced Rio airpore officiale to impose atringens

pasoport control and bazange efforts. These offorts

contributed to the brazilian Governent's falling to

issue landing pernits fer Cubana Flights on September

21, 24 and 25, 1963 forcing thair cancellation.

When

Cubangs because of harasmun at Mio, began using the

landing facilities 1a Sao Paulo where controle were

non estatent, CIA liltlated and obtained a local Stolson

agreeneat for aimilar harassmet in the event of future

Cubans mights to sao Paulo.

Mexico City station laspired & press campaiga

of hoot and mouth and smallpos epidonics in Cuba, prior

to the Architects Congrene to discourage participation

in the labace nesting. The rasulting quarantines and

innoculations

SECRET

•NY 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page ?

---

## Page 8

SECREE

Innoculations were a factor in discouraging 52 of che

69 Mexican professional architects who were expected to

go to Habana from attending the Congreas

Control of Noremant of Procesanda

NN 50955

DocId: 32424708

Page

8

---

## Page 9

• 5

Cantral of Clandestino Horment of Quezzillas

42404

Parariant of StatE

Nado the necescary arcangemento through Embassy

Tegucigalpa with che Coveriment of Honduras for the

dispatch of thrce U,3, helicopters to give logistical

assistance to the Honduran Army 1n 1t8 effort to. locare

end climinate the band of guerrillas allegadly operating

12 the Fatsca River area along tho Honduran Ricaraguan

border e

of Pofense

Three 01-11 helleopters Iron USSOUTICON supported

Honduran amad forces conducting counter-ineurgency

operacions ín-the Pataca River arca. A total ot 27 corties

vere flown resulting in delivery of 3220 pounda of supplles.

evacuacion of 12 sick Hoodoron soldiers, a1:11st of 19

parsengers to roints in the operational arca, and

recovery

oễ 400 pounds of supplies fron the operacional

arcas

IV.

SECRSE

NN 50955 DocId: 32421708 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECINCE

IV. Contzol on Prancier on Funde

Renarenant of State

#. Inctructed Enbandy Moxico Gicy to infom the

Mexican airline SAlSA that thale proposal to purchase

susplus Cuban aircraft nould in lact resule in the

accrual to Cuba of a alinliloant enount of hard curxcacy.

and the U.S. would have to oppose the transaction.

Furthers

1 dollare wore involved in the purchase,

It beuld be a violation of the Cuban Assots Control

Regulations:

Intomned Departnent of Treazusy, foreign Assets

Gentrol Olfice, of tho activities of Scuondelp Enterprises,

a Mini fim engaged in sending ranietnaces to persons

In Cats to violation of the Cuben Assets Contsol

Regulattons:

Instracted Conculate, Belize to inform

Mr. Etchaza Joyce,

at Anericon national, that his

commercial transactions with Cuba wore In violacion

of cho Cuban Assets Goatrol Rezulations and that hs

is prohlbited fron engaging in cuch trade.

WH 50955 DocId: 32424708: Page 10

---

## Page 11

SEC

V. StrentEhanzoa DE Counter-In8

spency Carabilitle2

Dopantment of Detense

Thirteen Latin Inerican officers sraduated fron

the counter-insurgency Operations Course of the U.S.

Azay School for Lotin Amnica In tla Panama Conal. Zone

on 20 Septomber. During the month, e total of 9l Lacin

American ofiicers encolled in courses stressing counter

ingurgency at the Azuy Canal Zone school.

b, Hight U.S, Ary counter-inourgeney nobile

craining terna vere providing training to the Arned

Forcos of Live Latin American comeries during the period.

U.S. Alo Force counter-insurgency trazing teans vere

in tuo countriet.

cị In the Canal Zone, 15 studento fron five countries

ware under instruction in the sporacion of coast suard :

utility patrol craft uned for coastal survelllance,

31x scadenta fron tuo comtries vere undergoing similer

training in the Unicedescates

d. A U.3. Navy comter-insurgency training team

Is in Venezuala to assist la ingroring the cecurity

.pE oli installations in Lake Meracalbo.

HH 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECREE

Costa Rica and Honduras were provided one

Gonsas 185 aircraft each for nedical clole setton and

Internal security parposess

On May 25, 1953, three M-43B KAMAN helicopters

wore provided to the government of Coloubie on a 90-day

loan. The Colcabian Covermant requested an extension

of the loan and a 90-day extension has boor approved.

General Insol112ence A32122

it louie caty Stacion has recited, on f

trial basis, a fomer mentex of the 13 lovarber goerilla

aroup and debrietinge are in process. Negotiations

continue with the Governone of Cuatemala for the

Laration of a now intorel coourity service.

Do Tina Station has agreed to furish the Peruvian

Investigations Folice (PIP) with an outboard notor

to increase their patrol capability on rivers crossing

the Jolivian Frontier. Our Information is chot the

vivere crossing this frontier have provided the primary

avenues for recent attempts to gain clandescine entry

of personnel and weapons into Fei.

VI.

2°

NH. 50955. DocId: 32124708 • Page 12

---

## Page 13

SB02ST

no: 10

Vi.

2 or thallurence on Subin Subvention

Eanertunt ai Detense

Ingineering lastallation work continued on radio

atacione for Managua, Wearague and Jezucigalpa,

Hondures. No further progress has been made in reaching

agrements wich Colombia and Ecuador for zights to

establion radio stations in those countries. Installation

of the new trans-istlmian commorchal cable la Panana

to nearing completion.

secellins

CIA Stationo continund chetz exclange of Intelligence

intomacion wich local Intelliguce Agencies.

Ibe

following socions are of special significance:

The CiA Stacion in Duenos Aires furnished She

Angertine State Intelligence Service (BIDE) wich

Information on the cravo! of Asgentines to Cube, and re

quented that SIDE provide nome traces and debriel these

travellers on thoir retro whenever feasible. SIDE

provided the kaaces, but did not conduct any debrieflags.

The Stacion bas not falt it feasible to try to remedy

this onsosier in view of the parsonel changes expected

within SIDs after cho new govêrment is Installed on

WH: 50955 DocId: 3202 Optolrade 13

SAGRET

---

## Page 14

As a resuls of inforuncion passed by the fogota

Stacion to the Administrative Dapartment of Security

(DAS) conceming Colesbian cravellers to Cuba, a number

of passpore violations have been discovered in which

tzovellero to Cuba are using pausporte ismed to other

per sons e

There it a reluctance; however. on the part

of the Colonbian Coverment to prosecute this type

of violation.

At the unging of the Cia Station In Line, the

National Intelligence Serviee (SIN) instructed ene of

its penotsations of leftlet groups to canpaign for a trie

co Caba 1a ordor to recaive puerrille variese tusining.

Thie asset has been offered, and hos accopted, en opportunity

en make the trip by the vectict Ravolucionary hovenent

(AR), ardenzy vahicle of Cabar sobversive activities

in Perue: Bricsing and debsiering of the asset will be

done by the Sit.

The Peruvian laval Intalligence Service (MIS) his,

In responso to the efforts of the Station 1a Lina, sens

ono of its agente to Chile Where he will sign aboard a

Chilong freighter calling at Habana. The asset has bees

Given pockete intelligence seguizenents to fulfill.

The

: NW 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 14

---

## Page 15

NH 50955 • DooId: 32424708

SECREE

=12

The Drine Minister and Minister of Govemment and

Police has requested from the ClA coprecentative in

Lins any intomacion that he night cupply on subversive

clanente posing a threat to the Goverumeat of Yer.

Thle request has opened an additional channel to the

highest lovel oñ the Coverment wich a concemaltant

prospector effective action wher needed.

Through roguler liaison channals, the Venezuelan

General Bircocorate of Folled (DIGGPOL) has boen provided

by ClA with the nones of ali Venesuelona kom to have

travalled to Cube from Ectruary chrough Auguse 1963.

Thia actlvity will be caruied eut on e continuiaz baels;

the namas arc now being intograted into the regular

ratch Alot kept at Incoraacional airports in Venerael.

Thus fac, at least three returces have been arrested

on the basis of the information supplied to DICEROL.

DICIZOL hes Indicated Ico approciosion of the date

belag wupplied aod desires that the arzangonent bo

continued.

Survallianse nê Cuban Malonatic. Comercial end Cultural

Mt salone

spectal actious to report.

VIL.

Page. 15

SECRET

---

## Page 16

tina 10144#

-134

VIJI. Other Special Actione

Infeed Stater Infomation 30929x

The Agency"s pross semice tranenitted seven

articles velacing to Cuban subversion on

its wireless

file servica to UBIS offices throughout Latin America

far placement in the local neuspaporz.. Developments

aported la theco articles included demanda by the Bolivian

Senate for the ouster of the dubm Charge d'Affaires,

terzorion and governeat counteraction an Venezuelag.

the beirure in Ecuador of an arus and emplosives cache

reportedly roceived fron tuba, several articles on the

Intentional Jaion of Architects Congresa In Nabera

(smphantaing the intert of the Castro regime to use the

Congress as a forum for 1ta propaganda clains), and

Abslotant Secretary Martia's Los Angelea speach te which

he pointed out the regio's affinity for Chinese comunist

docerine and its cuntiaued cuphasis on violent revolution

and anvarcion,, In all, the prose service troncultzed

27 antioles and cormontaries during Septeubes on the

subject of Cabe, ths other artieles dealing for the most

pert with econonle and politioal condicions inside che

country as euléonced by the regina's own adhissions and

che reponce of refugece...

NN 50955 DocId:32424708 Page 16

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECSS

The Voice of Anarica Spanish. broadcaste to Latin

America during September carried a total of 20 neve

analyses, comentaries, press round-ups, and interviews

related to the subject of Cuban subversion. Some of

the doveloppents croated included che following:

A carcectary on coummiet onbasales as channels for

subversion; e neve muslysis on the 3.s. studento vio

vialted Coba; Aesistant Secrosazy Marcia's 103 Angeles

spaoch; & neve amiyees on Caban subversion as an obstacle

ta the nonalizacion of U.s, Sovier zelations; a thre

past sertes on univessity autoncay in latin Aneries;

e gecture on the letter of a Colomblan studene uho

went to Guba so i scholsesbip and wes alaiilusioned by.

the commist indoctaination; & commentary co Che Guevera"s

rocent article in rovolutionan stratesy; and a cometary

un sucrrilla training in Cube. Many of these items were

copented soveral tines in the bcoadcasts.. The "Randezvous

with Caba" hous carriod four or Ehra commentaries sloa

Man and lacerers nightly on scorendo and political

A

developmente inside tube, di precial note,

, the Cubar

mauls one Castro himself reacted angrily is Voice of

smacêca baoadonate about Cus Camara"s article and to con-

pentacles that Cuba had accaptad an agricultural cole in

NW 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 17

SECRET

the

---

## Page 18

SECIST

Che cua

induzcria1120.

Septenber 27, the Agacey Asseed a circulas

Instzuction to alllite Latin Inarican poste urging

areater attencion to oppoctities for publicizing Cuban

attaulaced subversion, eusscatiag the various types of

Intomacion activities to apport this effort; and requescing

monthly soporta of floid actiona caton to frolenot the

Inseraction e

This was done as d

follos-up to the ociginal

Instruction on Cubon subversion which me isaued April 3,

Geneze?

MA In Ereciloessisted in the defection and

exploitation of a Caban athelece Roberto Perez Onderse

In Ponto Alagre on 4 Septober 1063. Perco was a menber

of the Cuban backet-poll tean which participated in the

Horld Univezalty Gauce (MISU) bold in Forto Alegze

Easil In marly Septenber 1963.

b. Assistance was given to the Coverment of

Cantenale in the intercogation of sone of those sho

wore arested in commection with the Commmist Party

ancurants that were conciscated in lace May 1963...

SOCRET

NY 50955 DocId:32424708 Page 18

Only

---

## Page 19

SECEEX

diss

16 +

Only one of those intorrogated adnitted to any involvemer:

with she caperred docanents, the Commist Party,

querailles, or angthing else that could be construed

as incriainatins The one who did adult knoulodge

denisd thac he was involved in any wey. The Sovermont

of Guntenale mance to intcurogate chle porson again at

& locez dale.

co CL Station in Montevideo arranged for an

Interview betwoen on Uruguayan milltary Intelligence

oftisor and a rocent dalsctor fuss the Montevideo

Cubar Embasay during which excensive infornation regarding

Cuban subveratve activicieo nas caroled.

The Cruguayan

offices preparud i repone containing this data and

presented 1c Co tho Macional Cooncil o& Coverment whlch

has ben alow is indicate concora over commist sube

versive activity in Jrugzay. As a rcault of thie repost;

cho DDC bas directod she Miniotos of Interloz to appolar

* special coumission to study the problen of Cosmiat

esbrorston and to nato recommendations as to vhat coszco

of oction should be taten by the Uruguayan Covonment..

Shoold tha Goromeat wish to paeas for passage Or "

stronger

SIBL

WW 50955 DocId:32424708 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SPONDE

scronger anti-oubversive legislacion Che Storion bas talen

otops to prepere Uruguyan public opinion by planning

simultaneons local prosa zelcared of the sallent

Coatures of the defector tenort with sinilar presa

repostling in tho United States where the defector willbe

brought to light.

HW 50955

DocId: 32124708 Page

20

---

