# 206-10001-10004

## Page 1

Date:

Page

09/24/98-701

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES"

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PFIAB

206-10001-10004

PRESIDENT'S. FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

PFIAB

MEETING OF THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

ADVISORY BOARD ON JUNE 25-26, 1963

DATE: 06/25/63

PAGES :

8

SUBJECTS

AGENDA FOR JUNE 25 AND 26, 1963 MEETING

SUMMARY OF JUNE 25 AND 26, 1963 MEETING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

TOP SECRET

1B, 1C

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

+0x06198 08/01/2024

2025 Release under the President John F!

Kennedy Assassination Records

Colection ect of 1942

[R] J-

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68132

Docld:34671879 Page 1

---

## Page 2

206-10001-10004

MEETING OF THE

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTEULIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

ON

June 25 - 26, 1963

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992

206-0001-10004

5

2494

Doclo:146/10/9

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

AGENDA FOR MEETINGS OP JUNE 25 - 26, 1963

SUBJECT

ITEM

TIE

June 25, 2963(sel mbie pisint)

1.

9:00 - 10:00

The chairman's Time

clifford

2.

10:00 - 10:15

Report on OXCART Incident

General Doollttle

3:

10:15 - 11:00

Status Report on Organization and Opera-

tIons of CIA In non-Covert Action Areas

DoOlIttle Panel

4.

11:00 - 11:30

Briefing on Organization, Management and

Operation of the Bureau of Intelligence

and Research (IN?), Department of State.

Ar. George C. Denney,

No subberlen

Deputy Director,

INR, State

Mr. Allan Evans, INR. Staff

5.

11:30 - 12:00

Status Report on State Department ag

Intelligence Activities

murphy Panel

6

12:00 - 12:30

Status Report on Signals Intelligence

(SIGINT) Activities

Baker Panel

7.

12:40 - 2:00

Lunch - Metropolitan Club Anderson Room -

Second Floor)

8.

2:00 - 2:30

a. 2:00 - 2:15. -- Budget Bureau Views on

Management and Budgetary Control of

Intelligence

Mr. Gary Pettibone, Eudget Bureau Stars

Mr. Irving Lewis, Budget Bureau Staff

2:15 • 2:30 -- Over-all Budgeting for

Intelligence

Pace Panél

9.

2:30 - 3:00

Executive Session DiSCUsSIOn of DCI'S

Comments on Report and Recommendations

Growing Out of the Board's Cuba Review

10

3:00. - 3:30

Discussion with the Director, National

Reconnaissance Office (NRO)

Mr. Brockway

Mamillan,

Under Secretary,

For malisial on PinelDepartment of the Air Force

(K)

amenta see Be Penel Iliament

TOP SECRET

l lot cool Cogne

фор

sold 2494

NW 88182'

Docld:34671879 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-TOP: SECRET

ITEM

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

TIME

3+30--5:00

i i did.

7:00

9:00 - 9:30

9:30 - 10:30

10:30 - 11:00

11:00 - 11:30

11:30 - 12:00

18.

19.

20.

12:00 - 12:30

12:30 - 1:30

1:30 - End of

Day

1300

Perised

6726231

SUBJECT

DIScUs With the-Director of Central

Intelligence

Mr: Mc Cone

Dinner at Mr. Clifford's Residence

9422 Rockv1lle PIke, Bethesda, Maryland

June 26, 1963

Executive Session.

Status Report on Defense Intelligence

ActIvaties (other than SIGINI and NRO)

Gray Panel.

Status Report on Covert Action Activities

Murphy-Gray-Langer Panel

Status Report on NRO Act1v1t1e3

Land-Doolittle Panel

Status Report on DCI's Coordination Role

and or Intelligence Community Relation-

ships with and support of the White House

Miford Panel

Executive Session

Lunch

__The White Holse Mess

Consideration of Chairman's Draft

Communications Concerning Future

Status Reports, of DCI, CIA, State

and Defense

DIscussIon of Board's SIGINT Panel Report

Discussion of the question of recommend

1ng a ninth/ Board member

d.

e.

DiscussIon' of freguency of future Board

meetings

Discussion of future business of the

Board! and the Board's Panels

Determination of next Board meeting date

TOP SECRET

Doold 2494

NW 88192

Docld:34671879 Page 4

---

## Page 5

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

-TOP SECRET

Si dennis cute, is 8.5

- pagos

_ Copios, suries n

June 28, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT:

Meeting of the President's Foreign Intelligence

Advisory Board - June 25-26, 1963

•The Board convened In 1ts offices. at 297 Executive Office

Bullding, 9:00 A.M., June 25, 1963, on the first day of Its

two-day meeting.

Those present were Board Chairman Clark

Clifford and Members Gray, Langer, Murphy, Doolittle, Land,

Langer, and Pace;

and Messrs. royne and Ash.

Chairman Clifford began the meeting with the observation

that the Board has been In existence for two years, and has

been very active during that time. Mr. Clifford thought

that it was exceedingly appropriate at this time to 100k

back on the two years!.

work of the Board, to evaluate the

work, and to arrive at conclusions concerning areas

-the Board can expand Its usefulness to the President.

Accordingly, Mr. Clifford

said, he has purposely kept to a

minimum the appearances of briefers from outside during this

meeting, and Board business would be confined mostly to con-

sideration of reports by the various Board Panels.

the Chairman Indicated

that he would set aside

time for a discussion of the usefulness of Panel reports

with a view to seeing whether there might not be increased

use made of Panels in pursuing the Board's functions.

this procedure proved useful, the Chairman thought that perhaps

there would be fewer formal meetings of the whole Board and

that the Panels could prepare proposed reports to the President

to be considered at formal meetings of the

avoiding a last-minute rush in the preparation of reports

to the President.:

The Chairman then turned to a number of Items which he

had drawn up for discussion with the Board, with the assistance

of Mr. Coyne.

First, the Chairman read to Board members the letter

which had been written to Mr. Clifford on June 5 by Dr:

Killlan, thanking the Board, for the gift which

he had received

the occasion of his resignation as Chairman of the Board.

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

This document contains information

Properly niH

IDEOUST CORONAL

OfeRing 1O OX CARL LAGBOARD

The Prosident's Foreign

Intelligence Advisory Board

Handle via BYEMAN

Control System

TOP SECRET

NW 88182

Docld:34671879 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TOP SECRET

75

Turning to the Board-suggested iten regarding the status of current

efforts to mount clandestine collection and covert operations against Cuba,

the DCI referred to the close attention being given to these matters.

He told

the Board that since March of this year Mr. Fitzgerald of CIA has been heading

up the Agency's headquarters element directly concerned with clandestine

activities gainst Cuba. Agents have been placed in Cuba for CIA by Argentina,

/France, Spain, Holland, Denmark, Norway and Britain. A total of 104 new agents.

of all types are in operation, 41 of them in Cuba where three "black", illegal

teams are working.: As yet there have been no penetrations of the Castro regime

or military instaliationg.

CIA gets reports from these agents and liaison

observers but the Agency has "no agents sitting on the Cuban General Staff".

Mr. McCone .

said that we do not know how many Soviets are in Cuba, although

It can be estimated that there are 12,000 to 13,000 still there and possibly

more, all scattered over the island. Ke Informed the Board that pursuant to

approvals by the Special Group, the NSC and the President there are active

programs. for Intensifled intelligence collection on Cuba, as well as efforts

to promote disaffection in the Cuban military; hampering the Cuban economy;

and sabotage:

Mr. Clifford asked for background on the recent news stories about

Cuban exiles claiming that invasion teams had been sent into Cuba:

Mr. McCone

stated that these claims were national stories by Cuban exiles in Miami with

a view to obtaining U.S. military Intervention. The DCI added that ClA assessed

the development accurately the night that word was first received about it.

He went on to say that an approved U.S. program calls for a long term effort

over two years almed at disaffecting the Cuban military from Castro, and it, 18

V185

oeld 2494

NW 48g325

Docld:34671879 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TOR SECAS

76

expected that this effort will result in press releases, and Sovlet protests

at the UN and elsewhere.

However, Mr. McCone expressed the bellet that there

1s alresay me disaffection within Cuban military clrcles, and 1f the ClA

effort succeeds the result will be an overthrow of Castro but lt will also

mean a militaly dictatorship in Cuba for s time:

MI. Mccone suggested that it might be profitable for the Board to recelve

a bileflus on cuban matters from Mr. Flezgerald of ClA, at the next Board meeting;

Mr, Clifford agreed shat this would be desirable.

MI, Gray observed that newspaper accounte and items lu che Central

Intelligence Bulletin have been in disagrecment on the soviet turnover of the

armored camps.

to

the: Cubans. :

Mrs Mccone thought that CHl's assessment is the

correct

one.

Mr. Pace inquired about the quality of U? photography being obtained

from missions over Cuba.:

Mr. McCone replied that in the present seasón of

summer storms there

1s more cloud cover and shadows which means fewer sightings

of the 30 critical target points of top interest to the CIA, and he noted that

there was a 15-day perlod of such bad weather recently.

At prescht U-? missions

are flown dally: and

sometimes twice. daily,. all of. them direct overflights:

-*.

The objective, he said, 1s to get a mosaic of the whole island every days.

In answer to general Doolittle's question, Mr Mecone sald that speclal:

authorization 1s still required for the sending of low-level missions over Cuba.

Answering a question by De. Langer, the DoI sald thai no evidence of camouflage

had been seen. He added that each day CIA issues an analysis of "exotic"

reporte received from refugee, agent and other sources, and there are Innumerable

such reports of all kinds unich cannos be checked outs

For example, a refugee;

fron Cuba arrived in Miami with the otory that he had seen an enormous submarine

TOR SESTLI

NWT85

Docld: 2494

NW 88192°

Docld:34671879

Page 7

---

## Page 8

- 77 -

base at a location near Banes. But an examination of photography of ene

village in question shows chly some fishing shacks and the presence of a shoal

which would prevent the entry of any vessels other than shallow draft fishing

boats.

MI. Pace asked whether useful information had been obtained from CLA's

own recovered agents. Mr. McCone said yes, definitely.

Turning to the subject of OXCART, the DCI sald that ten are on order,

in have been delivered and six have been flown. The remaining three will be

eilvered one at a time in July, August, and September.

Plans call for sub-

sequent development of Alr Force Interceptor and reconnaissance versions of

OXCARI.

As for the crash of

the OXCART last month, the DCI reported the facts

substantially as previously given to the Board by General Doolittle. Mr. McCone

Indicated that no security breach had occurred; when picked up by the persons

who rame up In a jeep the pilot succeeded in steering them away from the crash

scene;

the State Police

secured the area; all pieces of the plane were

removed

within 30

hours; the only news

photos made were retrieved lefore the filn was

processed or published; and only an innocuous news story appeared in the press.

MI. McCone said that the Board of Inquiry found that false instrument readings

were caused by frozen pitot tubes. It appeared that there was some pilot error;

corrective commendations have been made; and meanwhile OXCART will be flown

under conditions of clear visibility.

In answer to Mr. Pace's question, the DCI said that the overall cost of

project OXCART 15

$750 million (of which $300 million 1s engine cost), and that

PrOjeCt TAGBOARD will require an additional expenditure of $85 million.

TOR SECRET

8901

d 249:

Docld:34671879 Page 8

---

## Page 9

-78 -

(Dr. Baker departed

the Borrd meeting at this point.)

Taking up the sixth

Item suggested by the Board for discussion, the DCI

said that he felt that there were no security implications in it: Profumo case

in Britain. Mr. McCons said it was thought that It would be contrary to soviet

procedure for Ivanov to attempt to use keeler for espiorage purposes, although

there might have been a Soviet aticapt at political action against che Machillan

government.

In answer tn Mr. Coyne's question, Mr. McCone said that the Bilt 1sh

had cooperated fully with CIA in regard to the Profumo case with respect to any

U.S. people invoived, but that the British have rightfully withlield Information

on the implication of other Boltlihers. Mr. Mccone informed

the Board that

within a couple of days the Labor Party in England will break the case,

involving

Philby who turns out to be the "third man" in the Burgess-Maclean case, and who

In the late 1940's was

In Ilaison with the CIA and FBI. The DCI added that

MacMillan has been sitting on this case for a long time and ClA has tried in

the past to get the Britisi

to surface it.

Turning to the next item listed as of interest to the Bolid, Mr. McCone

said that the Penkovskly espionage case in the USSR had no implications

for

British or U.S. Intelligence security. The DCI noted that we suffered a

•erious loss of valuable source with the execution of this individual who pro-

vided over 8,000 pages of very important documents during the period 1960-1962.

MI. McCone related that the Soviet Colonel had been recruited by ClA but the

BIltish were brought in when it developed that contacts could best be made when

the Soviet officer wes in London escorting visiting military and trade missiona.

Therefore, Mi. McCone went on to say, CIA got MI-6 to share in the reporting

aspects and means were set up whereby information could be delivered by

W 185-

oçld 2494

NW B8J228

Docld:34671879 Page 9

---

## Page 10

79

Penkoyskly: (for example, dropping a roll of cantoll vrapped microfilm into a

baby carriage pushed by the wife of a Britisher in a london park. The DOI

sald that apparently the soviet officer's cooperation vas motivated by an

emotional resentment of the fact that he lad been passed over in promociong:

According to Mr. McCone, the officer was probably uncovered as a result of

soviet penetration of British Intelligenca, and 1t 1s known that he had no

access. to CiA Or FBI.:

Mr. Coyne asked whether CIA or Penkoushly had Inftiated

the contact. with CIA, and whether he could have been planted. Mr, liccone replied

that CIA was of course worried about the possibility of a plant but decided

that such was not the case.

Taking up the next item on the status of board recommendations growing

out of the Hanson Baldwin article of July 1902, the Del Informed the Board

that the FBI completed its investigation but did not postelvely identify the

source of the leak and therefore dropped the matter. : As to the proposal for

controls on press contacte, as a means of protecting intelligence matters, the

DCI sald that State and Defense put in a system of control procedures which

set off the furor over "management of the news" which 1s still raging:

State

finally dropped its system; the Defense Department retained its procedures; and

CIA alicady was following a control system and stall does. with regard to the

Board's proposal of a

special investigative group to investigate unauthorized

disclosures, Mr. McCone said that he sussested this to State and Defense but

the "managed news" furor was at its height so nothing was heard from those

departments about the proposal.

Meenwhile unknown to anyone outside CIA, the

Agency's Office of Security la developing a mechanism to cover any serlous leaks

occuring In the securlty fleld should the President requess action.

2T00 GEORGOT

NW 185

Docid 2494

NW 8a02

Docld:34671879 Page 10

---

