# 206-10001-10017

## Page 1

Date

Page

: 09/24/98

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PFIAB..

206-10001-10017

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE-

PFIAB

CONSIDERATION. OF COVERT ACTION MATTERS BY PRESIDENT

KENNEDY'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES

: 25

SUBJECTS: COVERT ACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

99/08/98 08/01/2024

COMMENTS

Box 11, Covert Operation (Bulk), March 29, 1971, Staff

Paper on Covert: Action to Chairman, PFIAB, Tab B.

2025 Release under the President

lohn F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

[R]

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

NW 88132

Docld:34671892 Page 1

---

## Page 2

206-10001-10017

.I.:

Covert... Operation (Bulk)

mar, 29, 197):

Staff Paper on Covert Action

to Chairman, PFIAB

Tab B

2025 Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992

NW 185

Docld:2507

Nwpogye-1

Doclo:146/1092

Page 2

206-10001-10817

---

## Page 3

TAB

"KENNEDY BOARD"

CONSIDERATIONS OF COVERT ACTION MATTERS BY

PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

Briefing of President by DOI, June 28; 1961

References to Covert

Actions, Board Reports to President

CIA Report on USSR and Communist China Expenditures

Briefing of Boárd Panel by Secretary, Special Group, May 11, 1962

Chairman's Discussions of Covert Action Matters with DCI, May 1962

Discussion with General Taylor, June 29, 1962

CIA Briefing of Board Panel, July 20, 1962

CIA Briefing of Board

Panel, November 1, 1962

Board Discussion with General Taylor, Chairman, JCS,

January 26, 1963

CIA Briefing of Board Panel, April 15, 1963

CIA Briefing of Board Panel, September 6, 1963

State Department Briefing of Board Panel, September 6, 1963

Discussions with MeGeorge Bundy, September 23, 1963

Excerpts, Minutes of Board Meetings, 1961--1963

NW 185:

Docld: 2507

NW 88152

Docld:34671892 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CIA BRIEFING OF THE BOARD'S COVERT ACTION PANEL

APRIL 15, 1963

On April 15, 1963 Mr. Cord Meyer of CIA met at the Board!s

offices with the

Board's Panel on Covert Actions (Messers: Murphy,

and Gray); Mr. J. Patrick Coyne; and Mr. A. Russell Ash.

Mr. Meyer briefed the Board Panel, on the major covert action

Cuba, a subject scheduled to be covered in a briefing of the full

Board on April 23, 1963). Mr. Meyer described the political action

programs which had been pursued with respect to Chile. In his

briefing Mr. Meyer also covered programs with respect to Argentina,

Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Brazil, Venezuela, Peru, Japan,

Congo, Kenya, Italy and

france.

(As a follow-up to the above mentioned briefing of the Board

Panel on Covert Actions, Mr. Gray and Mr. Coyne were given a further

briefing on the subject

at CIA Headquarters on May 16, 1963, with

a number of CIA representatives participating from the DDP Staff.

This briefing included considerable information with respect to the

nature and level of Soviet espionage activities being conducted in

various areas of the world.)

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW Bale23

Docld:34671892

Page 4

---

## Page 5

BRIEFING OF BOARD'S COVERT ACTION PANEL

BY STATE DEPARIMENT REPRESENTATIVES

September 6, 1963

Mr. Murphy, Dr. Langer and Mr. Coyne met with Mr. Thomas

Hughes, Director of

the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of

the Department of State on September 6, 1963, for a discussion of

several matters in the intelligence area.

With regara to covert action matters Mr. Hughes said that

his Bureau in

the Department of State is responsible for coordin-

ating all NSC 5412/2 matters throughout the Department.

Mr. Hughes

felt that this job was being performed satisfactorily but he

regreted that the State Department played a relatively minor role

in Special Group activities.

Mr. Hughes also expressed concern

about the DCI's

Iailure to provide sufficient time in advance of

Special Group meetings for, the coordination of covert action pro-

posals which are to be discussed at the meetings and concerning

which the Department of State has an interest.

In a discussion with Under Secretary Alexis Johnson, the

Panel was told that in Mr. Johnson's opinion CIA is now coordinating

its covert action programs with the appropriate elements of the

Department of State.

He dia comment,

however, that new programs

are submitted to the department at the very last moment, because

the Director of Central Intelligence wishes to sign off

personally

on new covert action proposals before they are submitted to the

Department of state or to the special Group.

Secretary Johnson, in reply to a question posed by the Panel

said that the Special Group does not follow the general practice

of reviewing periodically the status of implementation of covert

action programs approved by the Special

Group; and he thought it

would be a good idea to have such

reviews made, possibly by the

Bureau of Intelligence and Research in the State Department.

NW 185

Docld: 2507

NW S8?

Docld:34671892 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CIA BRIEFING OF THE BOARD'S COVERT ACTION PANEL

September 6, 1963

The Board's Covert Action Panel met on September 6, 1963.

Present were Mi. Robert Murphy, Chairman; Mr.

Gordon Gray;

Dr. William Langer; and Messrs. Coyne

and Ash.

During the course of the meeting the Board Panel was

briefed by Mr. Richard Helms

(Deputy DCI/Plans, CIA) and CIA

representatives Cord Meyer and Desmona Fitzgerald.

The briefing's

were on the subject of covert action programs with respect to .

British Guiana, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Vietnam, Bolivia,

Brazil and Cuba.

NW 185

Docld: 2507

Docld:146/1092

Page 6

---

## Page 7

EXCERPTS FROM MINUTES OF PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN

INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD MEETINGS WITH

RESPECT TO COVERT ACTIONS MATTERS

Meeting of May 15, 1961:

Ine then Del, Mr. Allen dulles, joined in a discussion of

the highlights of

CIA's activities.

In the covert actions field

Mr. Dulles suggested that the Board look into the future relation-

ship of CIA to paramilitary activities - Mr. Dulles being of the

opinion that paramilitary operations should not be conducted by

the CIA. Mr. Dulles thought that the Board should look at such

CIA activities as the use of proprietary organizations including

Radio Free Europe, REA, the Afro-American Institute, and various

Mr. Dulles was asked whether a removal

of paramilitary activities from CIA responsibility would permit

a significant cut in the CIA budget and personnel figures, and

Mr. Dulles replied that such was not the case because of the.

extensive activities being carried on by the International

Organizations Division of the DDP, and because of the many pro-

prietary activities in which CIA is involved. (Dr. Land said

that he was both shocked and indignant to learn that Radio Free

Europe is a proprietary organization of the CIA.

Mr. Clifford

said that he had been on the Board of Directors of RFE for the

past three years and this was the first time he had known it

was connected with CIA.

Mr. Dulles was asked what was the extent

of the knowledge of American business men concerning the RFE-CIA

connection and Mr. Dulles replied that certain American business

men are aware of the connection, but not the man-in-the-street

who makes dollar contributions to the tune of $3 million a year.)

Board Chairman Killian appointed himself and Messrs. Murphy,

Langer and Taylor to serve on a Panel of the Board to study the

extent to which the Government should be involved in political,

psychological, propaganda,

and paramilitary activities; and the

policy which should be pursued by the U. S. Government in these

matters.

President Kennedy joined the Board meeting, and when the

discussion turned to a recommendation of the prior Board, the.

President referred to a recommendation that covert action

programs of the CIA may not have been worth the risk nor worth

the great expenditure of manpower and money; that CIA concentra-

tion on such activities had tended to detract substantially

from the execution of its primary intelligence-gathering mission;

and that there should be a total reassessment of U. S. covert

action policies and programs.

The President indicated that

except for Laos and Cuba, he did not have extensive knowledge

of other covert operations being conducted by the CIA; he said

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW 891328

Docld:34671892 Page 7

---

## Page 8

that he had the feeling that someone in the White House should

be constantly in touch with and on top of covert operations ne

and he observed that the Congress believes that someone in

White House is keeping close watch on such matters.

After a

discussion of the Indonesia situation, President Kennedy

thought that the Cuba fiasco was

"Indonesia all over again,"

and he wondered if the Secretary of State and

the Secretary

of Defense should not be better informed regarding these

matters.:

The President also expressed concern over the

recent

development in Singapore which involved some bungled efforts

on the part of CIA to penetrate the Singapore police..

Follow-

ing expressions of views by General Taylor, MeGeorge Bundy,

and Mr. Gray,

need for staffing of NSC 5412/2 matters, the President needed

to be kept informed with respect to these programs on a

continuing basis.

Meeting of May 26, 1961:

In this second meeting of the PFIAB the discussion in-

cluded a statement by General Doolittle that proposed

reorganization steps with respect to the CIA would involve

the question of the interference of covert operations with

intelligence collection.

General Doolittle had found, he said,

tail" when in fact this should be reversed.

"covert operations dog is wagging the intelligence

General Doolittle

added that a great number of people in the CIA

Interested in the political, psychological, propaganda and

paramilitary than they are in

the dry, dillicult but important

task of collecting, interpreting and distributing intelligence-

& matter which General Doolittle thought could be corrected

by a change of emphasis and by a change in organization.

was present,

At one point in the meeting when the DOI, Mr. Allen Dulles,

that official said that with respect to organiza-

tional matters he favored transferring paramilitary activities

to the Defense Department; he opposed the separation of other

action activities from foreign intelligence activities;

and he was opposed to separating the post of DCI from that of

Head of the CIA.

Meeting of June 7, 1961:

Upon the completion of its third meeting on June 7, 1961,

the Board met that evening with President Kennedy, (the Attorney

General and Mr. McGeorge Bundy were also present.)

In connection

with a statement by the President that he was

receiving in-

adequate information concerning developments in a number of

countries, Board Chairman Killian said that it was the general

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW 88152™

Docld:34671892 Page 8

- 2 -

---

## Page 9

consensus of the Board that the CIA was placing too much

stress upon covert action activities, with insufficient

emphasis placed upon the acquisition or intelligence.

Later in the discussion, Mr. McGeorge Bundy said that in

line with the President's wishes, a list was being prepared

of all programs involving covert

support to political

parties

abroad, and support to individuals associated with

political parties, with a view to assessing the direction

and value of those programs--Mr. Bundy noting that certain

of these problem areas which had been referred to by Ambassa-

dor Galbraith in connection with covert actions in India

had been recently reviewed by the Special NSC 5412/2 Group.

Board Chairman Killian informed the President that in the

Board's view the responsibilities of the U. S. Ambassadors

should be clarified to make sure that each Ambassador is

cognizant of the intelligence collection and covert action

activities which are conducted in or from his country of

assignment and for the purpose of assuring that such activities

are consistent with the over-all national security policies

of the President. Later on in the discussion, the President

commented on a suggestion that he not be publicly identified

with clandestine or covert action activities, saying that

he thought this raised a question about the desirability of

setting up on the

White House staff a

"Special Assistant

for Intelligence.

" (Mr. Bundy thought it would be all right

to establish such a position, provided that the special

Assistant was himself not publicly identified with any

responsibility for covert operations.)

Meeting of June 30-July 2, 1961:

A portion of this Board meeting was attended by Mr. Mc-

George Bundy who, at one point, read to the Board the letter

the fetter

from President Kennedy appointing General Taylor as Military

Representative. Mr. Bundy emphasized that General Taylor's

appointment was not exclusively military in character, for the

President desired that General Taylor counsel him with respect

to certain intelligence matters, and in the field of covert

wished to look to General

Taylor for special guidance; and therefore the President had

appointed General Taylor to

serve as Chairman of the Special

5412/2 Group.

Mr. Bundy mentioned that recently a two-hour

General Taylor and Mr. Coyne by Messrs. Dulles and Bissell

concerning major covert action programs currently being

carried out by the Agency.

-3-

NW 185•

Docld: 2507

NW 881828

Docld:34671892 Page 9

---

## Page 10

At another point in the meeting the Board heard comments

from Mr. Roger Hilsman, Director of the Bureau of Intelligence

and Research at the Department of State.

Among other things,

Mr. Hilsman felt that the U. S. Government was not making

full use of covert action operations in providing assistance

to foreign political parties.

He thought that such opera-

tions were important and could be helpful ii done skilliully.

Mr. Hilsman expressed criticism of

the fact that the Depart-

ment of State was brought into CIA's planning in the NSC 5412/2

area only at the last moment, which made it difficult for

the State Department to take

a position without knowledge

of the extent and nature of the CIA resources that would be.

involved. Mr. Hilsman went on to say that he favored reorgani-

zing the CIA along the general lines of the British Intelligence

System; he would place clandestine collection and covert

political action operations under the Department of State;

and he would require that the State Department exercise policy

control over all aspects of intelligence including political,

psychological, propaganda, paramilitary and related covert

activities.

Meeting of July 18, 1961:

In the course of this meeting, Mr. Bissell of CIA was

invited to discuss with Board members his views on possible

reorganization steps that might be taken with respect to the

CIA. At one point in the discussion Mr. Bissell volunteered

the

suggestion that perhaps a step might be taken by the

President to obtain

a better public understanding and acceptance

of the CIA's responsibilities.

perhaps the President could make an appropriate announcement

which would include recogrition of the existence of the body

Known. as the Special NSC 5412/2 Group, telling of the Group's

duties and who compose it, without giving the public any

Information on the actual nature of the covert operations per-

formed by. the CIA.

NW 185

Docld: 2507

NW 88152

Docld:34671892 Page 10

- 4

---

## Page 11

Meeting of October 16-17, 1961

the Director of Central Intelligence, Mr. Allen

During the Board meeting of October 16-17 Dullespe

commented that the"principle of compartmentation" was being

violated by CIA in 1ts dealings with the PFIAB because of

the CIA's effort to meet the convenience of the Board.

Mr. Dulles said that one example of this was the action taken

by CIA in furnishing the detailed

compilation concerning the

proprietary and other cover organizations with which CIA

has dealings in its covert action programs.

ho it ton

Mr. Coyne

observed that material received by the Board from the CIA,

and more sensitive information received from other U. S.

intelligence agencies, 1s given a greater degree of security

in the Board than in the CIA Itself.

(For use at this Board

meeting a li-page summary had been prepared in the Board's

offices based on an undated document from CIA marked

"Top Secret--Eyes Only--Extremely Sensitive" containing a

listing and brief description of all CIA cover organizations

and proprietary activities, including references to the Asia

Foundation, Radio Free Europe, Institute of National Labor

Research, World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching

Profession, U. S. National Student Association, and many others.)

Mr. Dulles told the Board that the CIA can play a help-

ful but relatively modest, role with regard to the Laos and

South Vietnam problems, and he thought It would be well if

the Board would suggest ways in which the CIA could more

effectively utilize its resources in meeting such problems.

The DCI observed that the CIA must do more in all covert

action fields because the U. S. faces the most formidable

covert action apparatus ever seen.

He said that this apparatus

is the most effective one ever established, and the U.S.

has nothing like 1t.

During an executive session on October 17, 1961, Board

Chairman Killian suggested that Board members

give serious

thought to the CIA's use of Foundations as covers for operations

and he cited the Asia Foundation and the International Com-

mission of Jurists as examples.

Dr. Killian felt that there

1s danger that the entire Foundation systems in the U.S.

would be discredited if there were a disclosure of CIA's

connection with them.

It was Dr. Killian's view that the

CIA should not place

clandestine cover on any student,

-5 -

NW 185

Docld: 2507

NW BRy3211

Docld:34671892 Page 11

---

## Page 12

and he felt that it would be very serious should it become

expressed

agreement with this, but felt that CIA would be

justified in using foundations as a cover in combatting

communist influence in such activities as labor unions.

Mr. Clifford thought that perhaps Dr. Killian's concern with

regard to educational foundations might be possibly met by the

use of cut-off organizations between

as a means of concealing CIA financial support to the foundations.

Mr. Coyne reminded Board members of the Board's recommendation

of last July, that all existing covert action programs be

reviewed by the Special NSC 5412/2 Group.

In answer to a

question from General Doolittle, Mr. Coyne told the Board that

written summaries which had been furnished to the Board members

concerning CIA's cover organization activities, were being

given special security handling and strict accountability.

The Board meeting was joined by CIA representatives

Lyman Kirkpatrick, Richard Helms, Cord Meyer, and others, for

an oral presentation and discussion with respect to CIA cover

organizations, including commercial organizations and such

foundation-supported student groups as the National Student's

Federation. After Mr. Helms had discussed the use of non-

official covers for individual ClA personnel, Mr. Cord Meyer

described the ClA's use of foundations and

proprietary

organizations.

Mr. Meyer then described such large scale

CIA cover organizations as Radio Free Europe (where the objective

is propaganda, and other organizations which CiA directs against

Soviet front organizations (where the effort 1s to exert

influence and at the same time do genuine work for the benefit

of the cover organization and its program, as in the case of

the Asia Foundation and the Afro-American

Institute which are

based in the U.S. and whose activities are subject to CIA

Influence in the form of money and a degree of policy direction).•

In answer to questions from Board members as to the danger

of a disclosure. of CIA's relationship to these various founda-

tions, Mr. Meyer said that there was no grave danger of a

"cultural U-2 incident"

, and the risk of a disclosure, by a

defector, for example, was less than the risk of a U.S. news

story or

disclosure

the U.S.

inevitable that the Asian mentality would

suspect that there

1s U.S. government influence in all U. S. based foundations;

Chinese communist propaganda continually charges that U. S.

government or Wall Street control exists in these foundations,

even in the Ford Foundation where this 1s not the case;

-6 -

NW 185

Docld: 2507

VW 881321

Jocid: 46/1092 Page 12

---

## Page 13

nevertheless the cover foundations which are in fact influenced

by CIA continue to do legitimate work as, for example, in the

case of a labor training school supported by the Asia Founda-

tion in Pakistan, and in the case of a teacher-training grant

at the University of Rangoon; and in the case of the National

Student's Federation,

Meyer pointed out that CIA financial

support is normally funneled through a variety of channels

and CIA money goes to the National Educational Association through

a cut-out arrangement.

Mr. Meyer expressed the opinion that

CIA's budgetary control over the use of moneys contributed to

International student groups would deter any effort to impose-

foreign influence upon U.S. student organizations.

Mr. Meyer Informed the Board that CIA cover organization

activities are approved by the CIA Project Review Committee

with the State Department being made knowledgeable. Mr. Helms

stated that since January 20, 1901, there had beer

no review

of such activities by the NSC nor by the Special NSC 5412/2

Group.

Next the Board was briefed by CIA representatives Amory,

Breitweiser, and others concerning CIA paramilitary involve-

ment in Laos

and South Vietnam (in the latter country this

activity Included ground reconnaissance teams and intelligence

teams, and a recent requirement on CIA "to harrass Soviet air

drops of supplies" in the Southeast Asia area).

When the Board met with President Kennedy, on the after-

noon of October 17, 1961, the Chairman read to the President

the text of the Board's report on paramilitary activities, and

he mentioned to the President the highlights of presentations

which the Board had

heard earlier that day concerning develop-

ments in Laos.

The President directed Mr. Coyne to discuss

this subject with Mr.

McGeorge Bundy, with a view to a review

of paramilitary activities In Laos,

so be conducted by the

Special NSC 5412/2 Group (this was

discussed by Mr. Coyne

with Mr. Bundy who said that he would have the review made of

paramilitary activity in, Laos and the question as to

whether the responsibillty for the activity was properly

assigned to the CIA).

•-7-

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW 88g&211

Docld:34671892 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Meeting of December 9, 1961

During this meeting of the Board an opportunity was

given to Mr. Gray to present. some of the highlights of

Mr. Gray's and Mr. Coyne's findings in the course of their

on-the-scene review of U. S. foreign

intelligence activities

In seven Middle East countries.

One'of the recommendations

of Mr. Gray's report to the Board, which the Board subsequently

adopted and submitted to the President, called for a review

of NSC 5412/2 and related NSC Intelligence Directives to

insure that adequate guidance is given to Ambassadors and

generally;

placing increased emphasis on covert operations, particularly

in the newspaper and trade unions fields, with appropriate support

to be furnished by the CIA stations in Athens and Ankara.

subsequently, at the request of General Taylor, Mr. Gray anc

Mr. Coyne briefed the Special NSC 5412/2 Group concerning

covert action-related matters which had been reviewed during

the Middle East trip.

Meeting of January 19-20, 1962

In the course of this Board meeting discussions were

During

functions of the DD/P area within the CIA. Mr. McCone thought

In "conventional covert operations"

including the management

of the clandestine services world-wide, and designate another

assistant in the bl/e area who would be in charge of such

matters as COMINT,

Mr. McCone added that he

ELINT, satellite reconnaissance,

thought he would pick a military

activities in order that these functions would be conducted

on an absolutely professional basis, without disturbing the

Ines running from the DD/P to the CIA Station Chiefs.

Further on in the discussion with the DCI, Mr. McCone

expressed concern over the fact that in the CIA organizational

responsibillty for financing was placed at a rather low level

in the headquarters organizational set-up, and therefore the

DCI desired to place this responsibility upon a higher level

official who would serve as Comptroller in the Office of the

DCI. Mr. Gray asked whether this would increase problems

-8-

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW 88g321:

Docld:34671892 Page 14

---

## Page 15

with the Bureau of the Budget If the DCI made the Comptroller

responsible for all funding, Including covert operations;

and the DCI replied that in his opinion he could compart-

mentalize the work of the Comptroller In a way which would

facilitate dealing with the Bureau of the Budget concerning

covert action matters.

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW 88982"

Docld:34671892 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Meeting of March 23-24, 1962

During a discussion in Executive session, boar

Chairman Killian noted

that President Kennedy had accepted

the Board's recommendations concerning a re-definition of

the role of the DCI, and regarding reorganization of the CIA.

Dr. Killian thought

that the point had now been reached in

the Board's efforts when it should serve the President by

examining selected areas of the government'is intelligence

effort, and he mentioned as an example, covert actions carrie

out under NSC 5412/2.

At another point. In the Board meeting, Chairman Killian

again pointed out that there was a need for

the Board to

explore thoroughly

the activities being carried out in the

NSC 5412/2 area; Dr. Killian thought that a general session

with General Taylor at the next Board meeting would give the

Board an opportunity to become acquainted with the present

status of the specific programs being carried out under the

Special NSC 5412/2 Group; the Chairman thought that it would

be advantageous if the DCI were present at such a Board

meeting; and Dr. Killian added that the Board lacks clear

information on covert action programs with respect to cuba.

Later on in the meeting, the Chairman made several

Panel assignments to various Board members.

Dr. Langer was

asked to obtain information concerning covert actions being

carried out under auspices of the Special NSC 5412/2 Group,

In order that the Board might be informed In depth with regard

to such

activities.

The Chairman said that Dr. Langer's

report to the Board

should include information concerning

covert actions with respect to Cuba, Laos, Vietnam, and

Guatemala, among other countires.

In another reference to covert action matters, during

an Executive Session of this Board meeting:

Mr. Coyne suggested

that consideration be given to having one or more of the Board

members take an on-the-scene look at covert operations which

are being carried out abroad, particularly in South America.

Dr. Killian agreed that this

should be done.

Meeting of May 11-12, 1962

During this meeting, Board Chairman Killian reportec

to the Board concerning a

talk he had had with Mr. McGeorge

Bundy about the role of the President's Board. It was

NW 185

Docld: 2507

NW Sage 15

Docld:34671892 Page 16

- 10 -

---

## Page 17

Mr. Bundy's view that the Board must continue to keep

Itself fully informed about the foreign Intelligence program;

and Mr. Bundy emphasized the need for the Board to be com-

pletely Informed regarding covert action operations taking

place in the NSC 5412/2 area.

In an Executive Session,

Mr. Coyne reported on a dis-

cussion which he had had with

the newly-appointed DCI,

Mr. McCone, for the purpose of outlining the various Board

Panel assignments, and for the further purpose of scheduling

CIA briefings for

the members of the various Board Panels.

Mr. Coyne reported that the DCI's reaction was to indicate

his belief that the Board Panel activities seemed

•to be con-

cerned with matters which were appropriate for the DCI

himself to pursue.

Chairman Killian said that following this

discussion between Mr. Coyne and the DCI,: Dr. Killian had

contacted the Deputy DCI, General Carter, to

pursue the

request that CIA furnish briefings to the various Board

Panels. General Carter replied to Chairman Killian that the

DeI wanted to hold up on such briefings, for example, the

briefing of the Board Panel on NSC 5412/2 activities, because

the reorganization process was still underway. in CIA:

Chairman Killian also reported that when he contacted

General

Carter a week later on this same subject, It appeared that

the CIA was reluctant to furnish the desired briefings, but

Chairman Killian took a firm stand in requesting them.

During an Executive Session, Chairman Killian asked

for suggestions. concerning subject matters to be discussed

with the DCI when that official

joined the Board meeting the

following day.

With respect to the Langer-Gray-Murphy Panel,

Dr. Langer said he had no particular questions

to raise with

the DCI concerning activities carried out under the NSC 5412/2

Group. Dr. Langer observed that he was impressed by the way

the Special Group checks up on the implementation of covert

operations.

Chairman Killian referred tö various indications

ne had received that General Taylor was doing a very good job

In this respect.

Mr. Gray thought that if the Board Is going

to try to protect the President

In this particular area,

have a better flow of information to the Board con-

cerning NSC 5412/2 activities, in order that the Board may make'

a necessary evaluation of the

covert action programs Involved.

Chairman

Killian agreed with a suggestion by Mr. Coyne that

the Board Panel on NSC 5412/2 activities should remain in

existence on a continuing basis in order that the Board might

- 11-

NW 185

Docld: 2507

WW SIS

Docld:34671892 Page 17

---

## Page 18

be kept informed concerning these activities.

Dr. Killian remarked to Dr. Langer that the Board

Panel on NSC 5412/2 matters should conduct a continuing

review, with the objective of the Panel becoming fully

informed regarding covert action programs, following which

the Board would determine the next step to be taken.

Meeting of June 25-26, 1962

In Executive Session Chairman Killian Informed Board

members that recently there had been scheduled a CIA briefing

of the Board Panel on covert action programs. However, the

day before the briefing was to have been given by cIA officials

Chairman Killian received a telephone call from the DCI,

Mr. MoCone, who said that he hesitated to provide the in-

formation requested by the Board Panel because only the

President was privy to some of the covert operations involved.

Mr. McCone told Chairman Killian that he had discussed this

matter with the President who had concurred in the dot's

told ya, than kh had

suggestion that the briefing of the Board Panel be limitec

to procedural aspects of the Special NSC 5412/2 Group.

Dr. Killian's reply to the DCI was to the effect that

this

would be a waste of time because the Board was already fully

Informed concerning these procedural matters, and therefore,

the Chairman expressed his intention to discuss this matter

with the president, and the bed indicated that ne favorec

this course of action.

Thereafter, Chairman Killian discussed

the problem with Mr. McGeorge Bundy who felt that under the .

Board's Directive 1t should have full Information in order to

Continuing his report to the Board,

with the DCI who on this occasion said that he was prepared

to give the Board whatever information it needs

Information on CIA operations in the covert action cleane

The Chairman added. that Mr. McCone planned to brief the Panel

himself from a book prepared for the first time In CIA with

regard. to all of the activities involved.

Mr. Gray stated

that the abillty of the Board to get complete information

concerning covert action activities was essentialif the Boaro

were to be able to discharge Its responsibility to the President

Mr. Clifford thought, that the gravity of this

Issue with the

DCI was such that it warranted mention to the President when

the Board met with the president the following day, and the

President should be told the background of the problem and how

the matter had been resolved.

* - 12 -

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW S9917

Docld:34671892 Page 18

---

## Page 19

At another point in the Board meeting there was a

discussion of the need for identifying the President

with clandestine intelligence and covert action activities.

One Board member suggested that in any event the public

probably has an idea

that the President Is fully aware

of covert actions undertaken by our Government; however,

Mr. ClIfford pointed out that an attempt has always been

made to maintain a separation of the President from Intelligence

agency operations all down the line in Government, and this

separation should be preserved.

Charman Killian observed to Board members that when

the DCI arrived at the Board meeting later in the day the

matter ofpreviouslywithholding information from the Board

concerning covert operations would not be brought up unless

the DCI himself should bring it up for discussion. Dr. Killian

added that steps should be taken by Mr. Coyne to contact the

DCI and re-schedule the CIA briefing of the Board Panel on

Covert Actions, preferably within the next two weeks.

When the DCI, Mr. McCone, joined the Board meeting for

a discussion of intelligence matters, at one point the DOI

referred to his recent extensive field trip In South Vietnam.

Mr. McCone said that training is being given to South Vietnam

villagers in civil defense, arms and training are being supplied

to hamlet leaders who train and arm others; and there are

plans for additional similar projects if the Special NSC

5412/2 Group approves.

The DCI described the extent to which

CIA 1s involved in the conception and

administration of these

programs which are backed by U. S. military teams. He added

that CIA trains mountain people as trail watchers to report

on the infiltration of communist forces

from North Vietnam;

and CIA 1s installing communications between villagers and

1s equipping military units with communications.

In the course of a discussion with the DCI concerning

CIA budgetary matters, Mr. Gray observed that at times in the

past the Budget Bureau had been prone to look into policy.

decisions which had been arrived at with respect to covert

action programs in the Special NSC 5412/2 Group.

Mr. McCone

said that he anticipated no such problem in the Bureau of the

Budget in the future, with the recent appointment of Mr. Robert

Amory (formerly DD/I at CIA) to fill the Budget Bureau post

which 1s concerned with CIA budgetary matters.

- 13 -

NW 185

Docld: 2507

Docld:34671892 Page 19

---

## Page 20

In his further remarks to the

Board members at this

meeting, Mr. McCone took up the subject of covert action

programs which he then proceeded

to describe to the extent

that they involved

aerial reconnaissance missions over China

following consideration and approval by the Special NSC 5412/2

Group.

later on in the meeting, the Board was briefed by

Mr. Helms of CIA concerning Cuba.

Mr. Helms said that after

the abortive Cuban invasion there was a relaxation of covert

action and intelligence collection efforts for several months

with respect to Cuba; however,

since December 1961 a major

Intelligence effort has been aimed at Cuba, Involving U-2

overflights, interrogations of Cuban refugees in Florida;

and the obtaining of intelligence reports.

In answer to

question by a Board member, Mr. Helms said

that thought hao

been given to sabotaging petroleum which is enroute to Cuban

refineries, but such a covert action project was awaiting

further pollcy consideration. General Taylor joined the Board

meeting at another point, in

response to. the Chairman's

invitation, and among other things he discussed the subject of

covert action activities.

General Taylor asked whether

Board wished to indicate any reaction it might have to 1ts

current review of NSC 5412/2 matters, and Dr. Langer responded

a comment that as yet the Board's discussions had not

gone beyond a briefing on procedures given by the Secretary

of the Special Group.

In answer to a question by Dr. Langer,

1t was General Taylor's opinion that the Special NSC 5412/2

Group 1s not set up nor equipped to run a continuing check

on the implementation of all covert action projects, and for

this reason the Special Group places dependence upon the

PFIAB.

(When the Board met with the president on the afternoon

of June 20, 1962,

, Chairman Killian mentioned to President

actions conducted by the CIA or

other elements of the government.

Chairman Killian observed

that the Special NSC 5412/2 Group was functioning effectively.

As a footnote to 1ts report to the President, Chairman Killian

informed President Kennedy that the Board was happy to state

that there had been resolved a problem which had recently arisen

with respect to the Board's need-to-know regarding certain

Intelligence and covert action programs; and Dr. Killian

felt that with the resolution of this problem, the Board could

- 14 -

NW 185

Docld: 2507

Docld:34671892 Page 20

---

## Page 21

expect to receive the information which it had to have in

order to carry out its responsibilities to the President.

Dr. Killian added that based on briefings which had been.

received by the Board there appeared to be a lack of in-

formation

on the overall plan with respect to covert actions

regarding Cuba which prompted General Taylor to explain that

he had not yet had an opportunity to give the Board a thorough

fIll-in concerning covert actions against Cuba, which had been

considered In the Special Group. After the Board meeting with

the President, General Taylor summarized briefly for the Board

the intelligence programs being established with respect to

Cuba, pointing out that such programs were the first phase

of the effort against Cuba at this time.

PJT nOJS objection

Meeting of September 28, 1962

sofit to 112190

During this meeting of the Board, Mr. Murphy presented

an oral report of the Board's Panel on Covert Actions Operations,

based on a detailed report which had been prepared by Mr. Coyne

with respect to the recent meeting which the Panel had had with

the DCI.

Murphy touched on some of the highlights of the

Information which had been supplied by the DCI and by Mr. Helms,

and Mr. Murphy suggested that Board members read the memorandum

report

which Mr. Coyne had prepared.

Mr. Murphy thought that

a good rapport had been established by the Panel with the DCI

and he indicated that the Panel would continue to review the

subject periodically with Messrs McCone and Helms.

Dr. Baker,

Acting Board Chairman, emphasized the need for the Board to

obtain full and accurate information concerning covert operations

being conducted with respect to Cuba and with respect to other

matters.

Meeting of November 9, 1962

At the beginning of this meeting, it was announced that

Mr. Pace was absent on a trip to South

America, In the course

of which he would, on behalf of the Board, look into some

foreign intelligence and covert action activities in Argentina

and Uruguay.

Meeting of December 6-7, 1962

During this meeting Mr. Coyne suggested that the Board

consider the advisability of a recommendation to the president

that the Board be granted continuing access

to records of the

NW 185

Docld: 2507

NW 8818221

Docld:34671892 Page 21

- 15 -

---

## Page 22

Special NSC 5412/2 Group In order that the Board's

responsibilities to the President may be fullfilled;

Chairman Killian sald that he would see to it that this

was accomplished in another way.

Meeting of December 27-28, 1962

During this meeting of the PFIAB, and in the course of

the discussions had with DCI McCone, the DCI made reference

to the "MONGOOSE" program with respect to Cuba. He said that

Phase 1 of the program consisted of obtaining intelligence

on the possibilities for organizing and supplying resistance

groups within Cuba. The DCI said

that. It had.not.yet been

considered an appropriate time for the execution of plans for

"violent actions

of a sabotage nature within Cuba.

Mx. McCone had

thought that such actions would not be appropriate

because of

his orm speculation In August 1962, that the U. S. would be

faced with MRBM's.

In any case, the DCI said, the

"MONGOOSE"

effort became diverted by considerations of soviet activities

In Cuba.

Meeting of January 25-26, 1963

For use in connection with the Board meeting of

January 25-26, 1963, primarily on the subject of Cuba,

A. R. Ash prepared a memorandum for the file, dated January 11,

1963, summarizing the results of a review of minutes of the

Special NSC 5412/2 Group, and of the Special Group "Augmented"

(the latter group Including the Attorney General, concerned

with

"MONGOOSE" program directed at the Castro regime in

Cuba). At

"augmented "the August 4, 1962 meeting of the Special Group

, the Attorney General stated that the President

that more priority should be given to mounting sabotage

the Attorney. General urged massive activity

"MONGOOSE"

program.

"Augmented " that one of the objectives of the Special Group

', under the chairmanship of the Attorney

General,

would be to developi new and imaginative approaches

to the

possibillty of getting rid of the Castro regime.

(The review

of minutes of the Special NSC 5412/2 Group with respect to

Cuba, reflected that this body was concerned primarily with

reconnaissance overflight questions during the period leading

up to the Soviet missile crisis.

- 16 -

NW 185

Docld:2507

NW 88999?1

Docld:34671892 Page 22

---

## Page 23

Meeting of March 8-9, 1963

In the course of this Board meeting the only consideration

of any significance given to covert action matters was In con-

nection with the visit of the DOI for a discussion of intel-

ligence-related problems with members of the Board.

The DCI,

Mr. McCone, mentioned that CIA had traditionally carried out

activities

in the paramilitary field; however, the Department

of Defense now has Special Forces operating in the paramilitary

field in South Vietnam and elsewhere, which has resulted in con-

flicts between the CIA and DOD elements In those areas.

Meeting of April 23, 1963

At this meeting, In the course of a discussion of covert

action matters,

the question was raised as to whether the Board

should not ascertain specifically whether the President desired

that the Board go Into covert action programs deeply, and if that

proved to be the president's wish then the Board should take

steps to insure that it received full briefings from the agencies

Cope on tine porain access to

Chairman Killian stated that there were no limita-

tions on the Board's access to such information and that this 1s

well established.

At the request of Chairman Killian, Mr. Murphy briefly

informed the Board concerning the meeting which he, and Mr. Gray

and Mr.. Coyne had recently with Mr. Cord Meyer of CIA on the

subject of covert action programs.

Mr. Murphy said that the

briefing covered operations in certain Latin American countries

(the subject of Cuba was

excluded because that was to be covered

, and was of such routine nature that it seemed

to downgrade the Importance which the Board attached to covert

action operations and requirements.

Mr. Coyne Informed the Board of a request from Mr. Kirk-

patrick of CIA who asked that the scheduled CIA briefing of the

soara on clandestine operations with regara to cuba, be scheduled

outside of the presence of Mr. Cottrell, Deputy Assistant

secretary of State, Bureau of Inter-American Affairs, who

scheduled to join

CIA briefing was to be given.

Mr. Kirkpatrick explained that

the DCI urged these briefings to be separate because the CIA

briefing would Include a discussion of covert action operations

which Mr. Cottrell was

not privy to.

-17 -

NW 185

Docld:2507

Nw Bage"

Docld:34671892 Page 23

---

## Page 24

Later in this Board meeting, during discussions with the

DCI, Mr. McCone was asked whether

the terms of the U. S.-Cuba

Prisoner Exchange Agreement were of a nature which would affect

the conduct of present or future U.S. Intelligence and covert

operations with

respect to Cuba.

had not imposed

any

The DCI replled that Castro

conditions which would preclude the U.S.

from the conduct of

such

activities.

The Board was

briefed by Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald of CIA.

Mr. Fitzgerald said that the intelligence teams that CIA was

sending into Cuba were primarily confined to intelligence-

gathering missions rather than covert, action, although the

teams would háve missions involving

"low key

resistance and

subtle sabotage!

•' The CIA representative stated that monthly

plans of the CIA

for infiltrating these teams into Cuba were

approved

by'the Special NSC 5412/2 Group.

Mr. Fitzgerald added

that CIA was not receiving policy guidance with respect to

positive covert action programs of a specific sabotage nature,

and he indicated that a decision regarding this was being sought

during the coming week.

The Board meeting was joined by Mr. Cottrell of the Depart-

ment of State who explained that he was serving as Chairman of

an Inter-Departmental Coordinating Committee established at the

direction of the President, to provide a focal point for co-

ordinating policy recommendations and the execution of approved

Mr. Coyne raised the question

which had been brought up earlier by Mr. FItzgerald concerning

the absence of policy guidance with respect to covert actions

conducted by CIA.. Mr. Cottrell said that with the release of

prisoners in Cuba, in his opinion, the time had come for more

aggressive sabotage operations with respect to Cuba.

i cia opera lon at 1e pot.

- 18 -

NW 185

Docld: 2507

NW S8iSe

Docld:34671892

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Meeting of June 25-26, 1963

A large part of this meeting was taken up with reports

by various Board Panel Chairmen concerning the status and

adequacy of the implementation of recommendations which the

Board had made to date.

As Chairman of the Panel on CIA,

General Doolittle reported on those Board recommendations

concerning: CIA which were being acted upon; and Board. Chairman

clifford asked that at the next Board meeting General Doolittle

Identify areas In which CIA was not carrying out Presidentially-

approved recommendations of the Board (one of the CIA-related

recommendations which was presumably to be included in General

Doollttle's next report would be one in which the Board recom-

mended deeper cover

for CIA's covert action operations).

In the course of giving the report of his Panel on CIA

organization and related matters, Chairman Clifford Included

a reference to the Board recommendation that the President be

protected against Identification with clandestine and covert

action programs.

Mr. Clifford said that the need for this was

pretty well understood in appropriate quarters.

At another point in the Board meeting, when the DCI,

Mr: Mccone, was reporting to the Board on CIA operations against

cuba, the Del referred to certain covert actions.

Among these

were operations (approved by the Special 5412/2 Group) to

promote disaffection in the Cuban military; hampering the

Cuban economy; and sabotage.

Meeting of September 12-13, 1963

This Board meeting was attended by Mr. McGeorge Bundy

whom Chairman Clifford had Invited for a discussion of several

subject matters l1sted in the Chairman's memorandum of invitation.

As. to the subject of covert actions,

Mr. Bundy said. in frankness

that he did not know precisely how the Board went about it.

coverage of NSC 5412/2 matters.

He said that he looks to CIA

from

time to time for reports on the status of particular.

covert action programs, but preferred not to have in his office

a current

compilation

of all of them. However, Mr. Bundy

said that he was prepared to facilitate any review of covert

action programs that a Board Panel might want to make:

- 19 -

NW 185

Docld: 2507

WW SAI

Docld:34671892 Page 25

---

## Page 26

Meeting of November 21-22, 1963

During a report given at this Board meeting by the

DCI, Mr. McCone urged that the Board urge President kennedy

to take actions (public statements, for example) to correct

the bad public image which CIA was

acquiring as the result of

the anti-Diem coup in South

Vietnam, and was acting as a "Third Government" in that

country.

The DCI asserted that the CIA role in Vietnam was

not to overthrow governments, but to carry out other

tasks.

Referring to paramilitary operations in Vietnam, the DCI

said that there were problems involving the question as to

whether CIA or Special Forces should have the responsibility for

ver pro one rations.

such activities (Mr. Colby of CIA later told the Board that

paramilitary matters. in Vietnam were being transferred to

a by han

U.S. Special Forces).

NW 185

Docld:2507

Docld: 34671892

Page 26

---

