# 104-10297-10110

## Page 1

104-10297-10110

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

6,-.

•-,

;

+ Plun

ARO 10 reSt: 61

i 2630

LOLL CITE WAVE 3445

• 1. VIEWED FROM WAVE GREA THE GOING EFFORTS OF ARBUD AND

FUGARY IO GIVE AMBUD STATURE AND INTERRATIONAL RENOWN IS KOVING

ALLI? IN HIGHLY SATISFACTORY FANNER, DALLY NEW DECLARATIONS OF

AUREGION TO AMBUD BY GROUPS IN EXILE APPEAR IN SPANISH PRESS.

MAPASCHENT OF AHDUD BY COMPETITORS CONTINUES BUT GITHOUT BUTADLE

BETECT.

2. OHE POSSIELE CHINA MAY GEVELOP IN AMBUD ARMOR, HOUEVER, AN.

THIS WOULO BE YITH RESPECT TO SUPPORT CE IT BY RESISTANCE GROUFS

IISITE CUBA, FROM BINIAÑIS DELRIEFIS VAVE, LEARNS THAT FORRATIO:

OF 4.BUD WAS GREETED ENTHUSIASTICALLY BY MAN IN THE STREET IN

¡AGAlA NOT SO MUCH ON BASIS DE PERSCLALITIES SELECTED AS TA DEMOG.

FATION OF SOLIDARITY dY PREVIOUSLY GUAMPELING FAGTIONS. TO S.

TEN THIS FAVORABLE INITIAL REACTION RAVE FEELS SOME FOLITICAL

PAOIRO BY AMBUD IS IN ORDER AT PRESENT. EVPDENCE THAT SOME XE

FESISTANCS LEADERS MAY BE RESERVING JUDOMENT ON ANGUD IS GIVEN

MOTLER MESSAGE NLADER 1S CRIT 4247). (UU 1495) :

3O ALSO, IN RECENT DISCUSSION MITH VAVE CO, REPS OF UNLOAD

RERDCUCTION DY SINCE TRAS ME STING DIRCE IS PRCHESTED.

Copy tia

---

## Page 2

104-10297-10110

CLASSIFICE 0:55008

IN

2032 m

RAVOILOIDUARIA RAISLO NO OBJECTION ASCUO-L SUT EVIDENCED SORE PA

THAT THEY ICRORED IN ALL POLITICAL

HLSCTIATIONS SO FAR. GEODE

REPORTS UR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NAVANA RAS ALSO BEEN DISCUSSINE

SUPPONT OF AMBUD-I AND HAS DEMUNSTRATED SAME PIQUE, ACCORDING

TO GEODES UR SENDING THREE MAN CORHISSION TO WAVE AREA WEEK OF

APRIL TO INVESTIGATE POLITICAL SITUATION AND RECOMMEND UR FOGI

1. WE PROPOSE THEREFORE THAT ANGUD-! BE URGED TO SEND

INDIVIDUAL MESSAGES TO CERTAIN KEY RESISTANCE LENDERS VIA OUR L

CHANNELS, IN THESE MESSAGES ME MOULO REITERATE MIS DETERMINAI:

SPELO LIDERATION OF CUBA, WOULD RECOBNIZE PREDUMINAUT ROLE PLAY

.:USE WHO STAYED TO FIGHT AND YOULD ASY THEM TO DECLAPE THEIR L

¿: HIS GROUP. SUCH MESSAGES YOULO NOT REPLACE SIMILAR APPEALS

CAST OVERTLY TO ALL CUBANS BUT WOULO SUPPLEMERT THEM WITH ADDED

¡OVANTAGE OF BEING AIMED DIRECTLY AT SPECIFIC LEADERS.

5. AS SUITABLE TARGETS FOR THESE APPEALS HAVE WOULD SUGGEST UR,

KER, IDO, DRE, FORD, RESCATE, MRP, ACE CAMYELLS), 3O NOVERDER.

80: SW AND UT CHANNELS SHOULD BE USES. THRU LICARI SAVE HAS

iLE. ADY OFFERED MAKE AVAILABLE TO GREUD-L-A MEANS OF COMMO WITH UR

.:O HAS LEARNED THAT HEITHER AMBUG-I HOP. AMDIP-I PROFESSES ANY

...OWLEDGS OF EXISTENCE OF THIS GOOUP. IF THIS TYPIFIES THEIR SUARE-

•OS OF RESISIANCE SITUATION VITHIN CUEA THEN THEIR NEED FOR SIMMING

RIENOS AMONG THE HOME FOLKS IS GREATER THAN EVER.

ENO CE HESSAR

•REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAM THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIETTES.

Copy No.

---

