# 104-10103-10041

## Page 1

104-10103-10041

TO

•FENDES-VILL CHECK CLA

UNCLASSIFIED

FION TOP AND BOTTOM

-FIDENTIAL

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Mr. Howe

SECRET

INITIALS

3

5

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN .

SIGNATURE

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADORESS AND PHONE NO.

0/IG/2E24 Hqs./ 5527

UNCLASS15157

OM No 237 lise previous editions.

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE

22 Feb 74

SECRET

• (40)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CHECK CLASSI

TION TOP ANO BOTTOM

SECRET

IG. File 10, Tal 32:

22 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with Sam Halpern

I. I met with Sam Halpern for about 20 minutes this morning

in GG10, where he is cleaning up some details before he goes to

his new assignment as DC/DCD. I told him generally about our

attempt to reconstruct Howard Hunt's assignments and financial

transactions, and asked him particularly.for recollections he may

have of Hunt's assignment in Spain in mid-1965 to the fall of 1966.

2. Halpern said that he has no recollection about such an

assignment. In June 1965 he moved from WH Division with Des

FitzGerald when he became the DD/P. At about that time

Halpern's father died and he was in New York for the funeral

and ten days of religious observations following that." He was back

in mid-June and in and out from then on as he got ready to attend

the National War College which began in August.

He did not return

to that office until the end of June 1966.

3. Halpern observed that during this period Karamessines

was ADDP with Helms moving up to be DDCI. He thought it entirely

possible that Helms and Karamessines could have handled this

on their own.

Halpern said that

had come into the office

of the DD/P shortly before Helms became DDCI,, and had returned

from Honolulu for that purpose. He stayed on for FitzGerald until

Halpern returned from the National, War College. He suggested

someone might talk tol

who may have known something

about it (although he may not). He also suggested talking to Georgia.

Is/ S. D. Erectenridge

S. D. Breckinridge

gos pang

2009013196

---

