# 104-10059-10345

## Page 1

104-10059-10345

UNClASSIFIED

INTERNAL

• *

USE ONLY

• ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

C/DO/IMS/OG

TO: (Officer designation, room number,

and #

building)

1D4122

no bin t

" DATE

RECEIVED

C/IMS

1D4124

10t8%

OFFICER:

INITLAL

COMES a line or co column tato comments

FORWARDED

10 1ut

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

PCS/LOC 2D0109

TUBE: DXE GREEN

ATTN: N: SHEPANEK

h

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USEMENOUS

EDMONS

SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONL

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

300457

ED NO FORGE NABOR3

10,

71978

| 22 AN °78

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Donald P. Gregg

PCS/ LOC

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Norbert A. Shepanek

Marvin L. Smith

Chief, Operations Group

House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) Request

• HSCA Letter (OLC 78-2099) dated 23 May 1978

A. (S) An intensive search of the files and indices

• of this Directorate has revealed the following information

on the individuals listed in reference. Since birthdates

were not provided for all of the individuals, the information

surfaced may or may not pertain to them.

1. Thomas Nathaniel Mosley

DTR-00397 (copy attached)

2.

Homer Samuel Valdivia-Echevarria

201-0767409 (copy attached)

3.

Francisco Blanco

201-0332676 (record copy attached)

4.

George Marti

No information

5. Gonzalez Oselia

We are unable to identify this individual

because of insufficient biographic informatior

and the (phonetic) given name.

4225

2 IMPET CL BY 2243i

WARNING NOTCE

SENSITIVE INTELUGENCE SOURCES

AND MET 70. EVOIVED

SECNET

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

6.

7.

8.

James Traupela

No information

William Newton

There are twelve records on one William Newton

whom we cannot positively identify without

additional biographic information.

Jose Cardosa

There are six records on one Jose Cardosa

(or Cardozo or Cardoza). We cannot positively

identify these individuals as being pertinent

to the request without additional biographic

9. Martin Morua

201-0320262 (copy attached)

B. (S) CI Staff responded directly to your Office

Arechea.

C. (S) The files of the Central Cover Staff contain

twenty documents on one William B. Newton, Jr., born

14 March 1916.

These

documents are available. for review in CCS.

(U) This Office was unable to provide the

photographs

requested in paragraph two of reference because

no biographic data was supplied on the individuals.

E.

(U) It has been further determined that the

individuals mentioned in reference have not been the subject

of an FOIA or PA request.

F. (U) All third agency documents have been enveloped

and identified.

NOT DESSER TREET 22 3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

NOX RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

G. (U) The processing of this case was closely

coordinated with Norbert Shepanek and this memorandum was

reviewed in draft by him on 5 July 1978

Attachments:

As

stated above

::45-990-5

•"SCARLE TO FOREIGN MATURNS

---

