# 104-10234-10073

## Page 1

104-10234-10073

"e'

CLASSIF:ED MESSINE

z- SECRET

FLASHORE SUPER-

Piliti

2, FILE,

SECRET CS0A49Z

DIR CITE VAVE 6745

DiR 75786

7-1-65

1.5265 N53500

DESENSITE YPIC YOBITE AMTRUNK

REF A. VAVE 6313 (IN 46761)

8. VAVE 6S1A (IN

44957)

1O OP AMTRUVE X POSTPONED TO LATE JANUARY SINCE ASTRINGS HAS YOT

RETURNED FROM REF TRIP• ANTRUMS/S ALONG WITH AMTRUNK/S PFORFER GUIDE

VO TERMINATED MID-638 AND JPD PERSON LEFT WAVE AREA 21 DEC 64 FOR

AMTRUSK INFIL AREA THENCE HAVANA TO RESCUE

AND

3 OTHERS UHO IN HIDING AT HOME IDEN A, AMICE/LA ROVD INFO FROM BOTH

WIFE A/9 AND IDEN B THAT FUNDS FOR OPERATION PROVIDED BY ANFANA/3

OSTENSIBLY FROM KUBARK. AMAUNA/S IS ACSI SOURCE NO. IRD INGER WHOSE

NET

VORKED UNTIL A/S EXFILTRATED BY ALTRUNKS SEP 53.

ACCORDING WIFE A/S TRIP PLANNED FOR ONE VEEX DURATION BUT NO

VORD YET ROVD FROM AXO TO EXPLAIN DELAY. AND WIFE STATES ANS

:: PLANNED CONTACT ASTRUNK/15 AND 18 TO ARRANGE TRANSPORTATION TO HAV:NA.

AIS INTENDED NOTIFY HIS WIFE BY OPEN CODE COMMERCIAL CABLE UPON SAFE

• ARRIVAL HAVANA AND ALSO PRIOR EXFIL. ON 3E DEC, VIFE A/S STATES.

AMFAUNA/3 TELEPHONED IDEN A IN HAVANA. REPORTEDLYL

HIMSELF

ANSVERED PHONE AND STATES A/S HAD NOT YET ARRIVED. AS OF A JAN,

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

INTE:

- PACE-_

AI9 VIFE MAS ROVD DO WORD NOR HAVE WAVE SOUPCES TURNED UP INÃO DE A19.

3. ON 27 DEC IDEM C CALLED HER DALGYTER IDEN D IN VEVE BREA SPOM

HAVANA TO PASS CRYPTIC MSG TO COISIN AMICE/IA TO EFFECT TUAT ASTRUNA!

IN ROUBLE• APPEARS MSG INSTIGATED BY ANTRUSR/LI WHO IN PERIODIC

CONTACT VITH A/1S.

SECRET

302/4.24

"''ri.

A*277.

SECRET

---

