# 104-10123-10419

## Page 1

104-10123-10419

22 Jain i555

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Mr. Kenneth Greer

James Walter MC CORD, Jr:

1. At your request the following information

concerning Subject individual is outlined below

Subject 1s a GS-15, Security Officer, assigned

to the Air War College at Maxwell Air Force Base in

Alabama at the present time.

Subject was security

approved for Agency employment on 14 August 1951

following a favorable background investigation and

polygraph test. Subject has served continuously

with the Office of Security.

3.

Subject was born on 26 January 1924.

graduated from high school in 1940. He worked for the

FBI in a non-professional capacity from 9 March 1942

until 19 November 1943 at which time Subject enlisted in

the Army A1r Corps.

Following his discharge Subject

attended Kilgore College and the University of Texas and

received a BBA degree in 1948. •

4.

Subject was reinstated on 25 October 1948 as a

Special Agent with the FBI. Subject resigned from the

FBI on 19 February 1951 to enter a private business..

Subject opened a cooperative credit service following

his resignation from the FBI.

5. From August 1951 until July 1953 Subject was

assigned to

the San Francisco Field Office of the Office

of Security as an investigator. In July 1953 Subject

was assigned to Washington, D.C.

6.

In May 1955 Subject was assigned to the Security

Research Staff/Office of Security.

In May 1962 Subject

was assigned as the Chief of the Security Staff 1n

---

## Page 2

15-20

15-20

Subject raturned from

to Headquarters in August 1964 and was assigned to

the Air War College.

7. Subject's fitness reports have reflected that

he is an outstanding employee.

The last fitness report

Indicates that Subject was rated with an overall rating

of Strong and as Outstanding on the duties that he

performed

as Chief, Security Branch In Frankfurt. This

level of Subject's

performance is reflected in his other

fitness reports since entering on duty with the Agency.

8. There is no adverse information in Subject's

security file concerning his loyalty, morals, conduct

or character.

The only information of interest in this

particular situation is

as follows:

isrsonal Info

9. If this office can be of any further assistande

in this matter

please advise.

.!•

Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

21пV

---

