# 104-10250-10192

## Page 1

104-10250-10192

15 FEB 1955

Chief, KH Division

ATTN : PT•

Deputy Director of Security (Investigatione and Support)

Corliss LAMONT

#66901

1. This will confirm a recent discussion between ir.

of your Division and a representetive of this office relative to

the Federal Bureau of Investigation request that this Agency Inter

vlew Balnes HIDALGO concerning rossible Comrunist Party membership

of CorlISs IRMONT, the Internationally-known leeturer and author

2. Forwarded herewith is a proposed dispatch, origirated by

to go propriete my be conleted by your Dirition and formarded

3°

This Office would appreciate being advised whenever the

reply is received.

POR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITIS

Robert H. Canningham

Attachment.

2 copies of pro-

posed dispetch

#65077

SHORTLEY mIa

2/9/55

PDS/18S

53D, Chief

Dea.

Chiet

A

Chief

A.

Dep.

Br.

Sup.

Br.

C8R Br.

Tast

Oc Ce

DApp De:

SSD Files..

65077

---

## Page 2

SECRET

1. THE FBI DAS REQUESTED THAT BALMES HIDALCO BE INTERYZELED

RELATIVE TO ANY NOMLEDOL HE MAY HAVE CONCERNING POSSIBLE COMMUNIST

PARTY HEKEERSHIP. OF CORLISS LAHONT

THE INTERATIONATEY-KNOW LECTUA

ER AND AUTHOR. LAMONT. IS A FORMER CHARMAN OF THE NATIONAL COUNGNAS

OF AMERICAN-SOVIT FRIENDSHIP.

2. IF HIDALOO HAS NO PERSONAL KIONLEDGE OF LAVENTIS CONMENS

PARTY MEMBERSHIP,

THE FBI HAS RECUESTED THAT RA BE ASKO POR CHENUAMES

OF. ANY INDIVIDUALS WHO HE MIGHT THINK WOULD BE IN A POSITION LO FURISE

INFORMATION OF TAIS NATURE

THE FEL HAS REQUESTED THAT THIS; INQUIRY OF THE RIS BLANKR

CONFIDENTIAL

- 1.

YOU JARS;

REQUESTED TO INTERVIEW BALMES HIDALOO AND

DETERMINE WIRTHER HEPHAS ANY KNOILEDGE CONCERNINO CORLISS LAMONT'S K

MEMBERSHIP IN THE COMMUNIST PARTY AND/OR WHETHER EX COULD FURNISH THE

NAMES AND THER IDENT ENCING DATÀ OF INDIVIDUATS WHO MICHT BE IN A POST-

TION TO FURNISH SUCH INFORMATION

56.

AN EARLY REFUL WOULD BE APPRECIATED.

SECRET

---

