# 104-10331-10137

## Page 1

1104-0331-70137

18 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Acting Chief

Clearance Division,

OPS

J. Barry Harrelson

Senior Reviewer

Requested "Mission Statement" re

HRP/ARRB

its relationship to the Assassination Records Review Board.

It flows from the fact that the ARRB staff has declared the

OPS files of Nagell, Novel and Ruby to "assassination

records" and our subsequent request that the files or copies

thereof be forwarded to HRP.

Also, certain portions of the

files of Walter

Sheridan and Harold Weisberg have or will be

declared assassination records.

2.

The Historical Review Project (formerly the

Historical Review Group, CSI, DCI) has among its several

projects the responsibility to deal with the presidentially

appointed Assassination Records Review Board and its legal

mandate to find and transfer to the National Archives all

U.S. Government records relating to the Assassination of

President Kennedy.

The authority of the ARRB is fairly

broad and includes: the authority to designate

files/documents "assassination records," to determine if a

particular record or certain information within it must be

released to the Archives or postponed until

2007, and, the

power to issue subpoenas in the pursuit

of its assigned

activities.

3.

In the instant case, the Board staff has designated

the Nagel, Novel and Ruby security files assassination

records.

Copies of them must now be processed by HRP

according to its current guidelines for release/protection

of information and the files released to the Archives.

with

respect to the files

on Sheridan and Weisberg, further

review by the Board is necessary to designate which, if any,

portions of them are assassination

records.

4.

I hope that the above fulfills your requirement in

this matter and I look forward to receipt of the files.

J. Barry Harrelso

---

