# 104-10177-10121

## Page 1

104-10177-10121

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL.

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 4 2I6 1954

INSTRUCTIONS: Oicer desana:one gagd1 be nssert19 1h0"TD" doamn. Under each commont a line should be drawn acros. sheet

und cach commeni numbe-/ to correspond with theo abériede "TO" column.

Each off.cor should onitial (check mark insufficent)

before further routing.

T:ly Sourng and Recoid Shee: shod'i le retunes is Registry

FROM:

FI/ANALYSIS

MU.

HCSA - 525.

DATE

ROOM

NO

REC'O

GATE

FWD'D

WH

15 k

15 655.

15 At 54

15/681

1954 15

15 Me

17. FER

Admin

336

24

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

11 і

Centeriori

COPY DETALHED - logged

mys

pre

•AKG

Copy detached

CWit

10.

дек

AB5 X

IS RI/PI

1409

FORM HO

OYS 51-10 PRESENTIN.

SECRET

201-088764

13 1200

ABSTRACT

INDEX

-DATE

(102

10 FEB 1954 4TD 14

201-012767

13-68x86-3

any patiena cincE

CONFIDENTIAL

ONCLASSIFIED

(40)

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 3

+, 54 07 17 151 A

i ai i

---

## Page 4

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 5

CLASS, 120 MESSAGE

SECRE!

DATE :

4 FEB 54

TO

DIRECTOR

ACTION:

WH, 4

INSO: F1, F1/OPS, FI/STO, PP 2,

F1/RI2

Ods (UN 15054)

21362 1 FEB: 50

-ROUT INE

PREGEDENCI

TO: DIR

RE:

DIR 36656. (OUT 68009)

PSYCH

1. LANGEVIN

VIA EUROPE ON 15 APRIL 54.

DEPARTING WITH FAMILY FOR NEW YORK

TENTATIVELY PLANS TO RESIDE IM LOS

ANGELES.

2.

LANGEVIM

CURRSNTLY ENGAGED IN RECRUITING TASK AS EX-

PLAINED IN HOBA 626 DATED 4. FESRUARY. VE PREFER THIS TASK NOT

BE INTERRUPTED FOR TWO MONTHS.

FURTHERIORE THIS TASK MIGHT

GLON HIM FOR USE ELSELHERE.

END OF HESSAGE

ES COPY

201-088764

ABSTRACTI NOEX

1967

ENCLE +2

PDATE 17 FEB 195%

l'any No.

Gie died on day 8585y

201-088768

---

## Page 6

# 18.7.

ORIG

LIST

EXT-

DATE :

TO

FROM:

CONF :

INFO :

J.X. I512301100

399%

3 FaSKAR: 1954

-----7915

SP. MED

CLAGSIFIEO POISSAGE

38C8.л

22LTISO

16

WH 4

FI, F1/00S, FI/STO FiT/RI d

CIR. 74856. (OUT 68009)_

*10:

CITE: DIR

1. LMIGHVIL B0ITC CORMUPLATED DEMPORARY CPERAIIONAL USE

: SPECILE PROJEON GUTSIDE YCOR AREA,

2. •MADE EVILE EFT UNC

DETECHNE LIS ¡DEREABOJIS. INFORA HES.

DID OF MESSAGE

422.2009

201-088764

122

196/

ABSTRACT INDEX ST

•i:.

DATE

L: FLO 1004 14

RAT ORD. W. FERGERT

CIE

COOFUILATINO OFFICER'S

206-088764

SECRET

PILENCING OFFICES

252G Writer SmittEn 62199 Fati

¡TiS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESS.iGE

AUTHENTIC: 1100. OFF/227

C'csy Ng.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

RCYTI*G

FISH NO

NOT 1451

35-85

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLCCNCE AGENCY

SECTOR ENSORNATION

IN 36965

TO:

MACTORs

ST REP

I 4

ROUTINE

44097 17 CCT 53

ACTION:

INFORMATION:

F!/OPS; F1/STC, F:/RI

DIPL

-CITE:

ATVIN

REF: DIR 20830 (OUT 91507 )

1Ü LEVIN TERMINATED 31 AUGUST 53.

POL: 07Sc

LEVIN

DISPATCH EXPLAINING CANOE

END OF MESSAGE

201-088264

73

SECRET FRIFONT

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

1691

53

• COPY NO.

120r75a,

801-088764

---

## Page 8

•FROM:

-SEGRET

ROUTING AND RFCORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS:

•d'iricee desigrarions

shoulo de Mara, in ina "9y" catura.

acrosssheotandone corre.i.nuaterde la corra:

mara insufficient bordre durener rou?

"MICROFILMED

: 3:

JUN 1 6 1964

DOC. MICRO. SER.

red

TO

D'au

nWC

ROOM

NO.

DATE

REC' O

F#D' D

OFFICER'S

INI TI ALS

MAR 1

11950

20/0.

7/

indar pect corsene a sino anduld: ho dee

"To"cotuon.

fach officer

noule intela

10 Marca 50

COMMENTS

Cro clited ismas

::50-3-12-5

/: nonecord archiver it luces

antonia?

4(9=A-967

IDEO

Ri/ps.

261

3144

R./Fi/SP

20133438-4

FORM

38. 10

APR 1948

SECRET

---

## Page 9

+79la1675 9 57-77

YAAZ. 15877

•FERSONAL SETORD OURS-TONNAIRE

4тw.

PART I • BICGUAPIOCAL

INZORMATION

Instruction:

MICROFILMED

Answer all questions conplesely.

que JUM:1 70854

not apply, write "nou applicable"

sp:

"DOCIMICRO. BER

1:

Full Name- Jarld

First

2. Nore in native script.

Middle

P::11:as

Last

3.. Name at birtn (if different. from 1):

(not applicable)

•4. " Aliases, nicknenes, legal changes (State briefly time, reason and

place of usé.) In the rear 1942 the last name uas dronsedi

-POr

stria aurooses-other sator in sale show with same renar la x.y.

5. 8. Däte of birth

L. Place of birth

3.5.

6. Present citizenship, race if eppropriate

7.

Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (if different.

8. Present residence (Owner, tenant, sub-terant.).

9i Permanent address (If different from

10.

Present occupation (full title, salary etc:) Publlaner and editor. of

The South Pacific sail... No sulary

11,

Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the united States:

(Give date and name In which certificate granted.)

Relatives, friende, correspondents; in United States. exploin re-

latlönship)_

D1-88T44.

20433134

---

## Page 10

4-00001

Matt. -9

13: Father: 1.11 mene, occupation, pretelit residence, jear und place

of birth, nationilty at birth and subsequent nationalities.

Mother - samé information es 13.

15. Wife (or husband) - full name, malden name, date and place of birth,

date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent

nationalities present residence, divorce annulment.

(Give data

16. Children - full names, sex, rear and place if birth, nationality

at birth and any subrequent national tles, present residence.

in..

176

Brothers and alsters'- Same infortiation as 16.

-2-

. i"

---

## Page 11

120100

233/PRQ/ €

18. Relativuln seritin of any governone, lanes and positions held.

19. List all official identity papers held with dates, numbers. place of 1aeno

and duration of validity.

20.."

Religion - degree practiced, membership in religious orders

Protestant (Biscopalian). noderate prastive..

OUT.

No relicious ördors

21.

Present and past political affiliations

Support vonocratic Party in principle but hare no special

Interists or affiliatioas.

22. Travel outside country of present residence - country, dates;

purpose, people and firms visited

• Ir: 1592 and 1045 traveled

inrough africa, italy,

always

Lucorlevia,

• Gerrange

France, etc.

but

deccuse of military sorice.

also traveled

extensively

In. rexico in 1147as a tourist.

Wae..

23:

. Education - school, location, course, degree, dates.

•Illian and wary,

williamsoure,

drama amd. English, no. degree,

sear 1940.

lexas. Christian university

fort worth, Texas, nellah major;

no degrae, In tre.Jear

2: Languages and dialects (Indicate proftolency as good, raur, poor yo

Languase inton Speak wick Read Good underatand food n

Language rence, Speak pas Road Cool Underetand ale

Language derau speak barRed Pian underatand atro

201: 33438

---

## Page 12

25°

Military servire - detre, contry, unti, rera, duty, where

services performed, decorations, when discharged, why.

Give

1t1t01.

sotatle te ever prisoner of very:

sargen

1:6 to 167t: 00r6

19÷3

Stair

Sergeant,

scart.

wischarged jotogen

ar

31,

195% on points.

war,

Suptured t

Gerran

troots in day

29,

1944

Yugoslati

after

parachuriag

fron crasane place.

laren to

Stalag

Inft. i-I in Poland:

inter moved to Starrlager inft.

XIii near

aureniourt,

Gerrango, Hiderates by americen

sarcas

•asout middle of april 1245.

returned to

Camp Lucky Strike in

cranco.

26. Present and past membership in organizations (professional, social,

political, etc.)

author's

in Kappa signa fratercity st

Actor's Built lalian and dare.

short reubership

27. Special skills; abilities, hobbies (radio, photography, etc.)

etheletles, typing,

photography, saintine writing.

28.

Financial status - earnings; benk deposits, securities, property

Pracent businesa is new.

a newsisbar and there is no wa. to

estimate rat tas arofits.r 1l ve.

29. emploment history - type of work, saiary, dates, employers, ad

dresses, reasons for leaving. Include employent by any government.

30133432

---

## Page 13

29/PROL E

29.

(Continue i)

30. Has subject done any writing? Give details including titles. of

bocks, articles, publishers, dates. Yes, neus aper sort denerally

playwriting

Teh Snox Job

specifically.

Do plays published

cut pro

produces.

lso written urder contract for radio.

31. Liot persons living at sane address, close associates, (individuals or

groups, correspondents at home and abroad:

No other persons living.

9310

address.

Close. associates

include the

sritish

arid

american dipto atis personnel in Santiaso ard Valoaralso:

Ônile

also nenspaper man and various friends, many represertatives

foreten

concerns dathts country

32. Llet five character referenced:

=5-

+04+33432-1

---

## Page 14

14-00001

23/50L 5.

33. Court record - court, date, arrests, charges, punishrente,

sentences, acquittals, denazification, etc:

34. Description (Use Aserican standards of measurement, if possible.)

27

Ago.

Posture.

Good

195

Apparent age_

33

Height

G. Fee.t

Eyes.

Blua

2o ten tele 210.

SeE

jale

Weight

Teeth

even, cosa condition

slond

Hafr

Build

Scars Ender left eve, vect small

Stocky

General appearance

Prominent features

Other. identlfying features one

35.

Other matscellaneous biographical data and contenta.

to. Chile In 1043

to-attond

at this time.

however,

puch shing qua uglish

language

Valparaiso,

Chile.

last thermoment this

juestloradre fe

seing filled out,

the

subfeet: is

anay

froi:

ni's

homé. and

Ace.

without

anges's

tạ

papers and pourents:

Sonse rently

111 ansters

nas not

be:

absolutelt correct

Sc..

far,as

dates are corcarted.

-6-

---

## Page 15

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 16

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Ctricer designa.should do.uses in the "TO P'umA.

Under each ; onment a tino should de drawn across sheet

and each comment numbered to oressend with the number in the "TO" diumn.

Each offer should intral (-* son mark insufficient)

before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should in reiunnes to Registry.

FROM:

NO.

DATE

TO

ROOM

NO

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECD

FWD'D

5 kid. 5.

7 đec

TCS -21241

24 ti: 195)

COMMENTS

+ His 51

mris

004

RECLASSITIED

22/177

1ER

n/Files

FOR 19500. 51-10

SECRET

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 19

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 20

CY ACLASSIFIED

L

L CONF

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NTIAL

LO SECRET:

LIFENENTA

em/201

10.74,13

3 0 4400

POTLANS

ANANACETE

Infairlai

10/9'6

RI0/201

10.

08.

crigiral, routing sheed fried.

207-10737

piquest of

India

SECRET

2 CONFIDENTIAL

101. 88744

145938 22

WE 481Y

[J- UMRASSIFIED

---

## Page 21

14-000

---

## Page 22

14-1000

-53, 1421504

•O MAY 1958

90S CT

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SHORET

15 April 1958

NE-7/185/58-399

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH DIVIsiOn

SUJECT

: Mr, David A. Phillips

The Chief of Station Indicated that Mr. Phillips did

highly coumendable 10b [

and fecls his departur

is regrettable; however, he was unable to

dissuade Mr. Phillips from his desires to leave CIA. Headquarters

has leen equally impressed by Mr. Pllllips' gervices and feels

he performed in an exemplary manner, utilizing his mature Judgment

and excellent PP sense in attaining the objectives which led to

his ausignment

Division of hear Bast

..and Africa

Attachment

---

## Page 24

1d-0d0d

SECRET

Retyped fron ALBA - 6479

SUBJECT: Future Resignation frow CIA of David Phillips

1. In a recent meeting vith the Chier of Station, David Fhillips, the

PECTATE case officer, 'Informally azzounced his intention of resigning fro

CIA in the near future. At that tise Phillips requested that Headquartera

be informed by the Chief of Station. The decision to resign has been made

Informally, in order for the Station and Headquarters to have as much ad-

vance notice as possible. Actually, hillips does not expect to leave his

assigment for about fow nonths, or sometime in the month of July.

Phillips reports that. the PECTATE building will have been finished and oc-

cupied by PECTATE staffers long before that time.

2.

In the above-mentioned zeeting, and in & Memorandum for the Record

submitted to the Chief of Station, Fhillips has emphasized that his decision

was reached atser careful though and has been prompted solely by persons

considerations.

¡Specifically the ressons are:

a. The necessity of thillips' return to latin America to take

care of personal business problems, mainly the sale of his newspaper

le has been negotiating for thia sale for uny month.

it be feels that an advantegeous agreement would be imossible t

resch by mail from such a distance.

b. Fhillips' desire to insugurate a business firm in Cuba.

3. The Chier of Station has discussed this matter with Phillips in

Phillips has reiterated--and has requested that Headquarters be 80

There is no question of 218-

hes expressed his regret that circuastances prompt him to terminate what

he has described as a most rewarding association with CIA.

4. Ehillips' plans for leaving the

assignment bring up the

problem of future CIA control of PeCTATE.

Phillips has submitted to the

hief of Station his personal recomendations on this score, wiich have bee

onsidered in prepering a separate dispatch.

Chier of Station

24

March

1958

SEGRET

---

## Page 25

90771274"7

#I:

Chief, HEA

11-141251

FiLE

PECTATE

Fatsonver

(CHLADEN.)

leopaper's Trealert of klein aka Vinsion

ACTION PAGEDIET: As romested in parecrapa 1.

cher, a division, from the 10s

regarding CrO"Sie rewapaper.

*..Tho neuspaper nuner by Cloit" has beon engaging in an ell-out

campolen agalrat tie ilein-ick Hionion ard lair aconie progrre ter

Lesle.

unile lie neurosper in iranlf la no: territiy importer, the careamy

has becono disture locaun or the newspager lein; error cy in laerterno

incarily tre Anionzador called in the local editor st the crusteper and

13k0d

{05 2n 0x:Jan8?10,7.

le parised that he sss linsele in complete record

hst his harris were cio. as lie sea acting

арол

Instructlin fron his pulliater.

Personalit, I shine thai that wan

probably not true but ins sioply a merna of paagina the luce to exiricate

himself fron a difficult signarion.

¡ do not bellero that thie do ver

wich an coms with the scliritles of the newsraner ar that ira wolloy la

left pretry much in ie hands of the local maliar.

infortunate li, the Alr

nearches sho has keen her!

for : conciderable perica, perilonge to the

embarades the? he chauchl à sighe te eble to

three sone lloht, or the

sttuetion due to the fact that is,

1: trare

was such a connection,

I was no%

cosmisent of 1t.

reperthelean, " dick that the roat circunspact wiing

en trot he

rould correct se alluetton if he so dealres.

unerated

the abascedor into is lo write a vory strong letter directly to

arkang atalonent in reply coul very voll avoid inharrassment &t

a lutiru date for 3. Lex."

CASEYSTED

pe: Walt 43-26

SPOT: TBAT

---

## Page 26

14-00004

3, Can':, poy fld 11 moro desirable to postpois his atrong letter

of marten to hla en for in whilo mind he ecturily recotres a iettar o

into matter from tho Arbooscior, unlas ha can fenothly erplain to antl-

Aberican abeltudo of his Chiicou neuspence drough overt sources.

19 Decerber 1957

Distribution:

Orig

2

- Addr.

- CHEA

N:-7IR3

DD/P

CNE-7"

per 63X 43-25

---

## Page 27

td-nn0d

.=."

"?::

& December 1957

MECHLU: FOR: Deputy Director, fis

David A. FHILLIPS - Current attitude of Newspaper

in Chile owned by;

It is recomended that, the atoached be brought to the

attention of David &. PHILLIPS, with an expression of lus' views

on the situation.

David A. PHILLIPS is a holidi Staff'agent presently serv-

Ing oversens unü most probably in, asL

_surgests,

10t aware of the current attitude of the paper luCIl PACIFIC VAIL -

wacis Fepliah language newspapcr); hourver, it is believed that

is che situation vere brought to his attention, and copy of the

attached self explanalory letter forwerded to nir, he world be

idle to ccrroct it promptly by a letter to the editor outlining

ine policy he, the einor, wiches the paper to iclion.

Chief, WHD

Attachment:

2 cys of Lur - RYEAT

Dascharado

pEr CSM 43-26

---

## Page 28

14-00000

ROSA - 5109

15 loverber 1957

Dear i. C.

This is to advise you of a situation thet might possibly become

erbariessing for hEAR:.

In recent nonbas the newssaver here owned by

Zavic ^. Phillips*

ras been waging an all out e spair arainst thê

rein-eis iission end their ecconic prograr for Chile.

while the

neispaper in itsels is not terribly irportent

the inbassy has becone

disturbe: beceuse of the nevsusber keiar owned by an American.

Recently

the inbessador calies in the locsi editor of the nerspager and asked for

an erpleration. He replied that he was hinself in complete accord with

the ilein aks progres but that his heres were tied as he was acting upon

insertions from'his publisher. Personally, I think that that was

probably not true but vas simply a resos of osssing the buc: to extricate

hinsel? iron a difficult sibuation.

I do ant celieve that Phillips

is

very muor "eu courant" with the sctivities of the newspoper and that its

polles is ieft urebir much in the hands of the local editor.

lafortunately,

the dir strache, who has boen here for a considerable period, nentioned

to the tribassador that he thought I night le able to throw sore light on

the sitistion que to the face thes he,

sore sort of competion with tRifi.

orated that that ph us such a

hed

connection that I was not cognizant of it.

Hevertheless, I think that

the most circumspect thing that could te done would be to apprise Phillips

of tist is point on on his newspaper,

so thet, he could corrret, the situa

tics if he so desires. I understand the inbeesador intends to vrite a

very strosg letter directly to Phillips.

A strong statenent in reply

could very well avoid embarrassment at a future date for kusirK.

Let cd 4666

* - Eseudonya used

1n

original

letter received fros field.

---

## Page 29

t% ig81

'glad eit

2.

SECRET •

ROUTING AND RECORD SHELT

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations sials be used in tho "TO" column. Under encircommens a lino should be draineross sheet

and cach comment numberen to cortese it ith the rimber in the "TO" column

Each offser should initial (checis markinsuffiuen:)

before further routing

This Ronrig and Record Sheet should be returned is Registry

NO.

IR

TO

ROOM

NO

MICROFILNED

DALL 2 5023

OFFICER'S

WHEE

: T85-A-1759

DATE

• COMMENTS"

NWC

Andre

DEC

11 1951

Ibu. 11.

A4L6E

тану

%.

8.

LiVe

1zfu.

MAY 1 8 1957

PROCESSED THRU SI/CO

120...1:

120.

19.

14

15.

IR

FORM Me. 51-10

ep65164

2201

NT LJI GENC

254 7 194

RECORDS

.. i

ABSTRACT

INDEX

1409

3S COPY

SECRET

---

## Page 30

14-00009

= $ 355.

, ViA:

sik

TREES Y DIL OR SEA POÑE,

• DISP-. 3H NO..

TCS-A-1753

S2CRLJ

CLASSIFICATION

30 November 1951

TO

FROM

.: Chief, iSD

DATE: -

REF:

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operaticnal Matters

SPECIFIC- ZACACTUS, Chile

TCS-1-1741

MICROFILMED

vUl 251963

DOC. MICRO. SEP.

-pid

1. Enclosed herewith is the current issus of triö weekly newspaper edited and

published by the subject of referenced dispatch.for Headquarters' possible

interest.

Dist: 3 ilashington

2 Files

oSIt

PAINE

/ ENCe NS.M

$05*30, 51-28A

ris:

IR COPY

SECURITY INFORMNTION

SEURAT

"CS COPLE"

30 "Hou i951

204490694

2241939991-109

---

## Page 31

SECRET

EVEN WHEN BLANK

N° SD 25321 A

DATE

.. I DO HEREBY. DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

RIGHT THUMD PRINT

smal

WITNESS:

SECRET

SECRET

(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

•N° SD 25324 B

DATE

I DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY RELATIONS WITH THE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, I WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG-

NATURE WHERE REQUIRED:

RIGHT THUMB PRINT

WITNESS:

SECRET

---

## Page 32

Date so..

P0:00-4

---

