# 104-10133-10281

## Page 1

104-10133-10281

SEGRET

s....

.....

TAB B - Material Requiring Other Agency Component Coordination

Memo For: Dir of Security/Subject: Dade County Request

for Agency Assistance Regarding the Death of Johnny

Roselli/ 10-8-76

P 2 - PARA 2c--COPY ATTACHED; SOURCE STILL DELETED

P 3,

4 - PARA 2h--DDO DELETED

5 - PARA 3b--DDO DELETED

Memo For: Legislative Counsel/Subject: SSCI Request

(Death of Johnny Roselli) /9-20-76

DDO DELETIONS

Memo For:

Inspector General/ Subject: SSCI Operation

(Maheu/Roselli, et al Matter) / 6-12-75/p 2

DDO DELETIONS

Memo For:

Chief, SAG/Subject: Resorts International,

Inc./8-18-76

DDO DELETIONS

Memo

For: C, SRS/Subject: Cain, Richard S./10-9-67

P 2 - COPY ATTACHED

P

P

COPY ATTACHED

- PERSONAL/THIRD PARTY/UNRELATED INFO

3

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

15-2

TAB B

#1

Masferrer claimed that his Haiti invasion •

plot was approved by the U. S. Government (varying

•between the CIA and the FBI as the approving

agency).. While the CIA approval claim was untrue,

Agency

concern, at the time, centered around the

possibility of unfavorable publicity and the

compromise of sources and methods if the Agency

Was

forced to disprove Masferrer's charges in

court.

A handwritten note in

Hasferrer's file

revealed that he died in 1975 when his car was

• blown apart by a bomb in Florida. No further

details

regarding his death were contained in

his subject files.

Since Masferrer has never

been affiliated with the Agency, despite his

claims, it is believed that Dade County officials

should

be referred to the FBI for information

regarding Masferrer.

C.

contain

Luciano Nieves--Office of Security files

information

Nieves was

Florida. It was developed that he was a Cuban

national who had been arrested, tried, anc

sentenced to 20 years in Cuba for allegedly

being involved in an anti-Castro plot.. He was

released in March 1965 after serving approxi-

mately. It months of his sentence and went to

Spain briefly where he was of interest to the

In August 1965 he entered the

United States and in November 1965 was contacted

by Directorate of Operations (DDO) representatives.

Fron Novenber 1965 until approximately January

1966 he was of operational interest to the DDO.

It is noted that the DDO maintains a

201 file (201-788521) regarding Subject and it

is believed that the Office of Security would

have to defer any decision regarding the release

of information concerning Nieves to the DDO.

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

TABB

3.

During review of CAIN's Security file, I noted a message

regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned

a "Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessman in Mexico,"

who obviously had had contact of some kind with CAIN; as well as with

a CLA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that

CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. II (Acopy of this mema~

randum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces

on CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard

ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claim

he made to have worked with Task FoIce W, couid be substantiated. The

Station was advised that he did have (or had had) a legitimate detective

laboratory in Chicago.

#5

no recard. I believe che individual referred to is-Wyllys ANDREWS,

(Edward) Wyllys ANDREWS IV, #2769, ja former OSS/ CIA employee who

has lived in Mexico for many years and has continued to have, social con-

tacts with representatives of this Agency in Mexico as well as with Agency

employees from Headquarters who visit him from time to time. ANDREWS,

like CAIN, was born in Chicago of parents who also were born in the general

area of Chicago.

5.

The firstime CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office

was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request

stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which

he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in

Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico

was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police

methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;

and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed

Central American country.

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being

deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles

b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official

(He had identification as an investigator for the

Mexican Treasury Office.)

c. Violating his tourist permit by working at his

detective office and at the Mexican Treasury

il:

2

SECHET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

airi

TAB B#5

7. Subject was subsequently of irtèrest to the UCS in September

1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked

to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain

Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence.

10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished

much of the above information on CAIN.

8.

On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he

had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafia

in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information

as to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,

for what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were

in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25

May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN

since 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had

been the source of information. These had to do with anti-Castro Cuban

activities, procurement of arms, etc.

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a

current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that

there be no further contact with him at this time.

10. The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains an

article titled "Brazen Empire of Organized Crime," in yhich it is

stated that Sam GIANCANA, Head of the Chicago Coza Nostra, is "still

running things by rehote control from a hide-out in Mexico... where

he poses as Ricardo SCALZETTIS The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's

erst while chauffeur and courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans as

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently

a private investigator."

11. Eldon S. COHEN who is mentioned in paragraph 2 of this'

memorandum as having evidenced an interest in CAIN during the guber-

natorial campaign of the now Senator (from Illinois) CharlesH. PERCY,

tion from CIA which was effective 31 December 1963, at the time he con-

tacted a representative of the Chicago Office of DCS regarding CAIN on

10 February 1964, did not indicate that he was employed by PERCY. He

to inquire as to CANd been asked by the "PERCY far Governor" people

3

10161

SECRET

---

## Page 5

MATERIAL REVIEWED BY HSCA STAFFERS

Folder Subject: Review at Headquarters - Individuals of Interest

to the, HSCA (Tab B - Sanitized) on John Roselli, Sam Giancana

(Santos Trafficante) - 77-0076/2

DATE

92-7-98

STAFFERS (Signature)

Gole Anded ...

DATE NOTES TRANSMITTED

(Filled in by OLC)

APFAQVER FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA MATONICAL ANEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 6

77- 0076/2

MATERIAL REVIEWED BY&

Marke Flanagon,

Leslie Wizelman.

Ann Taylors Andy. Purdys Dan Hardwaysreviewed

document on 29 December: 1977

MATERIAL FURNISHED BY

Robert cambino, officerof Security

SUBJECT Individuals of Interest to the HSCA (TABBE SANMIZED VERSION)

John Rosellie Sam Glancana (Santos Trafficante)

BREEP: Review at Headquartere HSCA 77-0076/2; Individuale ot later eat to

the HSCA Tab B SANITIZED VERSION) Tohn Roselly Sam Glancana (Santo.

Traificantel

Members of the House Select Committceton Assassinations

---

