# 104-10186-10184

## Page 1

104-10186-10184

AINEORMATION

FRO

NFORMI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

MONAREPORT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT EUlOgIO PONS (al1aS. "ElOy")

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS CI-316/00693-65

11 February 1965

; RETURN TO CIA

NO. PAGES

1

DATE OF 1964

Background Use On ErERENcEs

INFO.

Washington. D.C.

Do Nol Reproduce

CS-311/00115-64

(page d)

8 July 1966

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. December 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

informalion provided

by the source and includes supplemental

information from. the

records of this Agency.

it is requested that the addressees take no action on any ol

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

of the Departmento

Department - LN) of the Direccion General

inches tall

and weighs about 145 pounds.

sepilma, esquina 60, Apto 2, Miramar, Habana, Cuba.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Eulogto PONS.

5

4

0 6.

1

5

SECR

E T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN •

3

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REP

• CINCLANT

(Note: Field distritution indicored by "*".)

NAVY

CINESO

I AIR

I&NS

INSA

XXX

T OCR

TFBI 2

INFORMATIONARERORI

SINE OR MAHO NAREPORT

WH / SA/ EOB.

WH / SA/NQB

WE/ J/R

WE

2 /CL/REA

IE

SLIE

LX 2290

UFGA 19020(9Dеc6А)

JO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

WH/SA: CL

HULVE

RID'AN

TOTALS SHI'SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2): CIA, RID 1

614190798

FORM NO.

$ T1

1

ORSOLAT* PREVIOCS EDITIONS

19-5-1

S1/R9g)

4IBR

---

