# 104-10171-10033

## Page 1

104-10171-10033

METURNTO CH

Background Use Only

Do Noi Pépradusa

SECR

.. RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

20 July 1962

CK - 175

Chief of Station, MAVE 41m

Chief, Task Force W

GYROSE/PH

Activities of the DRE (Directorio Revolucionario Estudlant11)

-1.

The source of the information contained in subsequent

paragraphe 1s Jose Ricardo Rabel Ortega, A 12 821 451, Cuban national

uno is the oldest son of Jose Ricardo Rabel Hunez, the present :

rational director of "Visiendas Campesinos" In Cuba. Source was a

Navy cadet at the Mariel Academy fron February 1960 to November 1961.

As part.of the curriculun source spent tvo weeks in Minan del rr1o,

Oriente Province, during the latter part of 1960. From February to

12 July 1902, source sorked for Viviendra Campesiras as a general

office clerk.

He may be reached at the following address: c/o Manuel

Gomez, 539 NE 70th Street, Miami, Florida, USA.

2.

source gave the folloving information which in repeated

verbatin herein.

"In a conversation on 13 July 1962 in Havana,

told me that the Directorio Revolucionario

Estudlant 11 (DRE) in Cuba had received 14 tons of arns and munitions

used in the near future against the Cormunist regine of Cube.

He also told me that experts in the handline of explosives vere

entering cuba for deborate of bridges and rallroads.

Tie in. charge of the ;

DRE In Havana Province.

I also know

who is one of the most important DRE leaders In Cuba:

86

In the conversation, I learned also that the DRE is expecting

another ship vith arms and armunition in the near future and a yacht

which 1s now in & lati, Anerican country. The yacht is for use in

activities against the Castro covenment.

The activities against the Castro goverrment to be

carried out by

the DRE are expected to start vithin e month or two months at the latest..

Note: This Information 1s confidential, and I want it to be

kept In

the greatest possible secrecy.

I have spoken with no one ele of thio

matter, which I consider very delicate. I want held in complete

CS COPY

19-120-14

31BR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CR = 175

20 Jul: 62

08, 06.

reservo the name

It is susseated that your Station say wish to establish

contact with source for purposes of deteritning anyerational

potentialities that the source may have and/or to assess a possible

breach of security.

Tit T. Pickion 2

Noil T. PICKVORIE

C

R

VIBR

---

