# 104-10071-10102

## Page 1

104-10071-10102

DISPATCH

calef, WOMUSB

INFO

FROM

Chief, European Division

SUBJECT

Chief of Station,

RYBAT/MECHAOS

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

NYP

Transmittal of Clippings

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Transnitted herewith are three untranslated clippings from

Norwegian newspapers which may be of interest to woMusE.

Attachment:

Clippings

-b/w

Distribution:

2. - Chief, WOMUSE w/attachment b/w

2 - Chief, European Division w/o attachment

7540

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OWOT-2911

CLASSIFICATION

- SECRET/RYBAT

DATE

19 March 1969

HOS FILE NUMBER

200-006-387/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

„Sorte Pantere

soleis 17,)

,49

for

en sosial revolusion

«Panteren» Bobby Seale hom til Oslo idag

- Vi vil bevise at det sosia

Jistiske samfunn er bedre enn

det kapitalistiske:.vi vil innfere

dette i CSA og vi vil samarbeide

med revolusjonære i alle land,

sa lederen for det amerikanske

«Black Panthers-partiet da han

i morges kom til Oslo.: Seale er

pà besok i Skandinavia for à

Ifortelle om sitt syn pà kamDen:

mellom rasene i USA Som ar-

ranger for beseket i Norge stär

den norske «Black Panther-

komité og Red Front

- Pa:

- Inter har bedret: forholdene for:

det sorte Amerika under tidligere

president

Johnson;:

Nixons

og president:

forslag

om & innfore esort

kapitalismes 1 ghettoene : vil bare

oze folelsen av.sort rasehat, berdet

Seale, som understreiet at de esorte

panteres ikse onsker sitt eget. ad.

Lederen for det amerikanske ‹Black

solite samfunn.

Rasene har. leret

Panther,-parti, Bobby Seale,- ved

adskilt i 200 ár, og nu er det pã

anxomsten til Fornebu. 32

tide à rà fremover.: sa. den meret

= (Fotos Bronjulo

Lathun)

veltalende Bobby Sesle. Hans ut

trybesmate yar overveiet og polert,

med for tanken on ait annet had-

bortsett fra i giertatte: benvisnin-

ide. sviktet. Stokely Carmichael er

ger til politiet i USA: som han bal-

statsminister j vàrs «skyggeregje-

ier agrisers (pigs)*

rings; men bar kommet med en

Forste gang

«Black Pantherg

keite uttalelser. om agressivitet og

partiet gjorde seg kjent var da

separatisme som virikke helt kan

Booby Scale og en

annen av par

godta, sa Bobby Seale, som mptte

tiets ledere, Buey P. Newton, i.ok-

Norge - med Mao-profil 1 luen, 'og

iober 1966 organiserte vapnede: pa-

en beklagelse over at lkke: fjern-

truljer som skulle overvake: poli-

synets kameramenn var mott frem

tiets behandling av negrene: New-

for à dekke begivenheten. n

ton sitter ru.fengsiet for à ha skutt

en politimann. og et av partiets mä)

er à fà har frigitt:

- DSA er en politistati fortsatte

Seale og berdet at det sorte sam-

furn má iares opp dil seirforstar:

Flan tror ikke pà flere sakalie «bete

sommeres, fordi han mener at det

sorle

samfunn

bar

innsett - util-

strekkeligheten ar spontaze oppror.

Men effektivt arbeidende organisa-

sicner har man respet for, la han

til.

Et ar de forsie tiltax partiet har

satt i verk er à organisere: felles

irokost for fattige barn, for det

meste negre. Dernest baper partiet

pả

organisere sosialistiske 0y-

samfunn

for

de som

matte vare

inceressert.

Partiet arbeider nemlig

iRke bare

Ior begce, men for: alle

indertrybte. micoriteter.

Dessuten

soker partiet à samarbeide med bva

Seale kaker « progressive hvites ele-

menter i samfumret.

- Vi

godtar

Jke betegnelsen

•Lrigersies : (militant).

Vi. herder

nogrerdigheten ar seivforstar.

det

nar vist seg à fare nodvendig. Seir

Marthin Luther King var, ikke frem-

ATTACEMENT TO OWOT-2911

---

## Page 3

14-00000

"Elack Panthere

for a

Social Revolution

"Panther" 20337 BAi cane to

Oslo today

we will show that

Socialist society is better than Capitalist

society; we will introduce it in the United States and we will

cooperate with revolutionaries in all countries, said the leader

0f the American "Black Panther" Party when he came to Oslo this

morning.

SEALE is on a visit to Scandanavia to express his views

about the struggle between the races in the United States.

The

"Norwegian "Black Panther" Committee and Red Front arranged the

visit-

Nothing has improved conditions for Black America under former

President Johnson, and President Nixon's proposal to introduce "Black

Capitalisn" in the ghettoes will only increase feelings of black

raciai bate, asserted SEAlE, who emphasized that the "Black Panthers"

ars not seeking their own separate

society.

The races have lived

saparately for 200 years and now it is time to go forward, said the

very eloquent BOBBY SEALE. His manner

of expression was judicious and

polished, aside from repeated references to the "Police Force" in the

US, which he calls "pigs".

-]-

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Ire "Black Panther" Party became known for the first time

When BOBBY SaME and one of the Party leaders, FUBT P. NEWTON

organized armed patrols in Cetober, 1966, which were to watch police

treatment of legroes. Onto is now in prison for shooting a police-

can and one of the Party's goals is his release.

The USa 1s a police state, Stail continued, and he maintains that

black society mist learn to defend itself. He does not believe in

rany so-called "hot sunners" because he believes that black society

nas realized the inadequacy of spontaneous riots. However, he asserted

effectively working organizations are respected.

One of the Party's first efforts was the organization of break-

Tests

for poor children, for nost negroes. The Party next hopes to

organize a Socialist municipality for those who must be interested.

The Party works

not only for Negroes, but for all oppressed minorities.

In addition, the Party is seeking to cooperate with what SEALE calls

"progressive white" elerents in society.

he do not approve the term militant. We assert the need of self

defense, which has turned out to be urgent. Even Martin Luther King

ni&s

not

averse

to the idea that everything else had failed. STOKELY

CNICEABL is Prime Minister in our " shadow Government", but he makes

statements about aggressiveness and separatism whic: we can not conpletely

approve,

said BOBBY SPATE, "ho came

to Norway with a Mao badge in his cap

and a complaint that to television cameramen appeared to cover the events.

- 2-

---

