# 104-10182-10092

## Page 1

104-10182-10092

DISPATCH

CLASS •CATION

FRCCESSINT A.

10

MARIED FOR INDEXING

Chief of Station, Santo Domingu

NO INDEXING AFOURED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

PROA

Chief, restem ilemisphere Division

SUBJECT

Onerational Tersonnel and Security Matters

Hitchell Livingston vER-BELLe LI

ACTION REQUIRED - RIFREENCES

ANCHORILA

Reference: HIDCA-j447

RETURNTO CIA

Action: Paragraphs 1 and 8.

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduci

In response to the Station's request contained in

reference for information on Mitchell Livingston NER-BELL, 1II,

this is to provide the station with some pertinent personal data

on him, and to recoamend that the Station, i.e., Theodore f. KETTNE..

avoid contact with him in operational matters but, to the extent

securely possible, monitor his activities in the area.

Pennsylvania, was

WER-BELL, born on 8 March 1918 in Philadelphia,

married in 194z to dildegarde Elizabeth

HENNERICil, and has six children.

He was an

Army first lieutenant

when recruited by KUTwIN, with which

distinction in the China

service he saw duty with some

Theater during the second half of 1945.

Public

In 1953 he established his own business, Mitchell verbell

Relations and Advertising

which went out

of business in 1959, due

Company, in Atlanta, Ceorgia,

to insolvency caused

primarily by his injudicious and unorthodox trade practices.

Subject is well-known to KUBARK, whose officers have

categorized him variously as unscrupulous, a "wheeler-dealer"

and a pronoter of grandiose schemes; as a

man wic lives beyond

his means; and as a high-pressure advertising

In the summer of 195y subject offered his services to

KUBARK, claiming knowledge of Cuban and Uosinican affairs.

Although a POA was

source of information

granted on 4 August 1959 for his use as a

Caribbean

on revolutionary activities in the

ares, it evolved that the infornation he provided was

of little value. It was further judged that Subject wished to

Distribution:

2 - COS, Santo Domingo

701-259910

7 FEB 1964

CROSS REFERENCE TO

OS COP FISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

iDC*- 1193

CLASSIFICATION

S&CKET

DATE

29 January 1964

MOS FILE NUMBER

201-259910

OFFICE

ROUTING

EAT.

03

CENE SET.

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

OSFICERS MANE

03

itican

DESTROY !

FORM 53

USE PREVIOUSEDITION

OFFICE SYABOL

C/:.10

FELSE SE

OFFICERS SIGNATURE

Be Tanbul Do Co TiC farret Strues

(40)

175

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

LISPATCH SYMAGL AND NUMOCA

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECREI

10C: -1193

USA KUBARA funds

to promote his personal interests and,

consequently, he was terminated in Uctober of 1959.

with regard to subject's

assertions as reported in

reference, we wish to conment that:

Although we cannot confira of controvert nis

vice-president of FINA, in April of 1963 he allowed

,to DOEYVY at Adlanta that he was

president of Communications

International, Inc.

ODENVY had contacted subject to determine

daitian Government.

b.

while his claim of past KUTWIN service is true.

the degree

of his friendship with that service's well-known

director remains open to speculation, for there are no

indications that the two were even acouainted.

The nature and extent of his relationship with

many important Central American officials is scored by an

episode which occurred in August-september 1962, wien he tried .

to secure the recognition by several Central American countries

of a Cuban government in exile.

example, he offered a Nicaraguan govement spokesman

$100,000 to secure that country's recognition.

October of 1962, he reportedly tried, through an interrediary»

co purchase used military aircraft in PBrklie ostensibly fo

in the Dominican Kezublic to train Latin Anerican pilots

for a thrust against Cuba.

In this October report, Subject

is cited as being a forner public relations representative

here tor the Trujillo regincat

in cctober of 1962 Subject kas

being investigated by QUEVY

Further to the above for his possidle involverone in

1959 in the shipping of arms to Ecuador.

The above salient features as to subject's background,

should be sufficient to discourage any operational use of

subject, and to indicate the need for caution on attain's

should he have any further contact with him.

At the sane

time, deadquarters considers that information on subject'

local activities and contacts, as could affect ODYOke interests,

should be reported as such becones known to the Station.

OLIVER G. FALBOND

7 FED 1964

1.75

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

I CONTINUED

---

