# 104-10163-10046

## Page 1

104-10163-10046

Fint

8096 1-18

ROUTING

FROM,

ACTION:

INFOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• 22

SEtt

UNWAVE

F

ww.

(COPY ISSUED TO VISA, IV,

061, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, SOD 4, DO/H, CA 2,

WH 8, VR, FILE, CS/RF.

1DO iT 1ÚD5 16 FC6 0.0)

SECRET 1619262

21-7 FEB 16 28252 65 IN 81818

PRIORITY DIR INTO PRICRITY LANT

BARR CITE WAVE 8326

INTEL TYPI

SUPDATA:

AMCLATTER-I FRCH FRANK FIRDINI. RID: INDEX.

FILED 161926z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUSA

SUBJ: PLANNED AIR STRIKE ACAINST HABARA BY THE MIRR CI 16 FEBRLARY

1965

DO1: 16 FEBRUARY 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FEBRUARY 1965)

UFG 6718

SOURCE: A MAMMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF MAGAL: FOR

SEVERAL YEARS, THE SCURCE HAS CONTACIS WHO RECOCHIZE HIM AS A

IW COMMENT.

CSDO: FLY PATS TO SIG CENTER

FOA TLECTRICAL

• TRANSMISSION.

cossad

1?:

ADVISED SIDO OF TDCS

NO AT 1730 LOCAL.

[12 401/ REG

!

PLEASANG Rule I Sacala

CHARLES Me BOULDS

DATE DISTRiBUTLO.

16 FEBRUARY 1965

-.72284

TDCS D3-315/00550-65

ROUTINE

IX IPRIORITY

BASED ON,

UFG 6710

ND PROJECT

(NICLATTER/ 1)

LIAISON,

REPROOUCTION AY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROMIETED.

Copy his.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

:

-

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

nare 3:04

ROUTING

5.

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

3

IN 81818

PAGE 2

CHANNEL TO US INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OSTAINED FROM

FRANK FICRINI•

Prout

IW COMMENT:

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

TDCS

ROUTE HE

TASED ON

WAISON,

1 PRIORITY

FROM APARATI

REFAOOUCION GI OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Ms.

---

## Page 3

8T6 11-68

• CONFIDENTIAT

COMPUTE DISSEM

@ PRIORITY

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

TDCS DB-315/00550-65

DATE OF

16 FEBRUARY 1965

INFO.

DISTR. 16 FEBRUARY 1965

PLANED AIR STRIKE AGAINST HEAVA ON 16 FEBRUARY 1955

BY THE MIRR

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FEBRUARY 1965)

SOURCE

REF

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 6710

N 81818

1. AT ABOUT 1:88S AM ON 16 FEBRUARY 1965, FRARK FIORINI SAID

THAT THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCICRARIA

(MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) WAS

PLANNING ANOTHER AIR STRIKE OVER CUE: ON 16 FEBRUARY. BILL MENSOli,

AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO ARRANGES THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOR SUCH STRIKES

AGAINST CUBA, TOLD FIORIMI THAT HE AND MIKE RAFFERTY HAD HAD A

HEATED ARGUMENT WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, MIRR LEADER, AT ABOUT

11:45 PM ON 15 FEBRUARY BECAUSE BOSCH WANTED HIS PILOT TO ECIS

THE CITY OF HABANA. JOHNSON AND RAFFERTY TRIED TO ADVISE BOSCH

CONFIDENIIAL

CaRIS 15S0

REICA LY CHA/NACE COAST GUARD BORIER PATROL FUT ENS TREASURY CUSTERO

IMMEDIATE TO: STATE (RC1)

DIA/CIC

8&189a IM010N

!

---

## Page 4

14-00000

APO 80 (a

CONPOLLED PISSE IN •81818%

CONFIDEN

TDC308-3151

PAGE 2

+00550-65

• AGAINST SUCH AN OPERATION BUT BOSCH REFUSED TO BE DISSUADED AND

INSTRUCTED MIS PILOT TO MAKE THE MISSION. THE PILOT, AN UNIDENTI-

FIED AMERICAN WHO MADE THE PREVIOUS TWO RAIDS, AGREED TO MAKE THE

MISSION FOR A LARGE SUM OF MONEY. ME WAS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY

AN UNIDENTIFIED CUBAN PILOT.

ZO FIORINI SAID THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF BOMBING SOME

ANTI-AIRCRAFT UNITS NEAR CERTAIN UNIDENTIFIED TANKS BUT BOSCH

ALLEGEDLY INSTRUCTED THE PILOT. TO FORGET ABOUT THEM AND HIT ANY-

THING HE COULD. •

3O FIORINI SAID THAT BOSCH HAS A B-25 HIDDEN IN THE NORTHERN

PART OF FLORIDA NEAR AN UNIDENTIFIED SUGAR MILL. THE AIRCRAFT

WAS PURCHASED IN TEXAS AND IS IN GOOD CONDITION.

# &FIELO COMMENTS THE MIRR ANNOUNCED ON 13 FEBRUARY THAT ONE

OF ITS TWIN-ENGINE PLANES BOMBED AND STRAFED THE BAHIA HONDA

SUGAR CENTRAL ON CUBA'S NORTH COAST OF PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE IN

THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF 13 FEBRUARY. ON 16 FEBRUARY THE MIRR

ANNOUNCED THAT THE B-26 WAS OVER CUEA FOR 21. MINUTES ON THE RAID

AND DID NOT DRAW ANY GROUND FIRE. NAPALM BOMBS OF IDE POUNDS EACH,

A 26P-POUIT HIGH EXPLOSIVE BOMB AND DUASPHOROUS INCENDIARY DEVICES

WERE ALLEGEDLY DROPPED. THERE HAS GESN NO ANNOUNCEMENT FROM CUBA

• INDICATING THAT SUCH A RAID TOOK FLACE. HOWEVER, HABANA RADIO

DID NOT ANNOUNCE CONFIRMATION OF THE MIRR'S 17 JANUARY STRIKE

AGAINST THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL UNTIL TWO DAYS LATER. Y

SO FIELD DISSIM: CINCLANT, CINESO, COVSHESTFOR, MiAMI REPS

CONEIDENITAL

ENTROLL DO

---

## Page 5

CONELDENTIAL

OF STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, IONS, FBI, AND CUSTOMS.

Mulla Bosa

315/C0550-65

МТО A-ав 1201

IN 81818

PAGE 3

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

lines

---

