# 104-10433-10012

## Page 1

104-10433-10012

WCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

18 SECRET

C TOP SECRET

332

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

1. Tab

contains KJK 25/

dated 24 May 1768

3. () Previously denied in toto under exemption(s)

() Segregable portions previously released under exemption (5)

P9 Located during the iDO appeals revier.

•() Referied to DoO for review by

Further description,

identification, conments, andor referrals, etc.

1. I RECOMMEND:

()

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

• of

ADD exemption(s)

(3 DROP exemption (5)

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ADD exemption(s)

DROP exemption (s)

() Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

Da Deny document in toto under exemption (s) (11115) BLCA16)

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted

under

•of

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information Eron a foreign liaison service

Information

pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Infornation which would/amn identify the source

Information perzaining to a source

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

LOCaLiONS Of CIA overseas

installations

LOCAtiON

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee 5

File numbers

Pseudonym

Стурсолуж

Internal

organizational deta

116)

Name

Of FBI

agent,

FBI file

number

Privacy of other individuals

OTHER

0. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO appeal classification revier, this document which was

marked as sEei

was:'

maintained |

classified

to

declassified

desensitized

downgraded to

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012171

CONFIDENTIAL

SECKET

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

REPORT COVER

SHEET

FAOH

Chief of Station,

Martine

MERTON

Andrew

I l be ant

7

•ROVING OFFICER

John Re

MEBION

Vu

MEIGS

-AGENCY

Mat & 3

_ Headquarters

1

SECRET

NO FORETEN •DISSEM

REPORT NO.

H-JK - 251

OF REPORT

24 May 1968

PROJECT

RUABBE

SOURCE CRYPT

RUABBE

FIELD DISTRIBUTION

PROCESSING ACTION

COVER SHEET

MARKEO FOR INDEXING

HANXING 1-7413

OPS DATA. REPORTED SEPARATELY

ES OISSEMINATION

TOCS. DISSEMINATION

EXTRA-AGENCY

1 - State, Army, Nave

I - CINGSO (through)

CEMENTAL

DATA

12.2. 89

1.72 (3)

ALL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

LIPiARDI

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 2 ITEM

76

E4Z- IMPORT CLAYER

9530

ES COPY

Lisa me

CS-31/06459-68

24 MAY1968

13-2-517

8703-55

(201

A-66

---

## Page 3

13-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

PAGE 1 OF

PAGES

TIGIGAN INFORA

SD C

PE t

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

31. May: 1969

COUNTR

DOI

SUSJEC

April 1968

FOr

Intelligence Report

1908

AÇO

• SOURCE

FIELD NO.

3A May 1958

Available is the CIA Libisry la s copy of the

Monthly Report for April 1963 prepared by the Special

Branch of the Janaioan Security Service.

Heatigate of the report followe:

A. 1

Iks Jamaica (Caribbean) Workers Movement

(1) - Kenneth ROWS bas been ilored by Jonny

JAURS; Chairman of the CARIBBBAN OCTOBER CONGRESS (COC) of

115 huddlaston road, London, d.T, that the cos jo sitaliated

with the bamaign Against Racial Diacrimination (CARD) and

was trydag to make it a inilitant massline one"..

ROWE was

asicod to haly by writing articlos lor tho, and to set up a

Solidarity Group 05 anall connittoo to diatribute in the

Caribbest-latla Anerican zagion documente that rould be sent i

to him about rhite fasoist' attacks againat black poople

living and working in Bugland.

Rows was asked to accept

appointiont as an Overseas Editor and/or ropresentative of

CIA and 'PaopIos Voice, a publication of ClAPf and to

send fur pubilcation each month, sa artiole and novs commentary..

ROMs use antod to say how many copios he would require for

sale locally, (Jamsicanseritoo Comments CIA? is. balioved

to be the Caribbosa latin Amorioan Affairs Iublicationa,,

374 Grays Ina Road, Loadon, W.C.1 (of wbick JAllS is chairman),

the publisters of

"Carib' magsaine which is banned in Jamaica.

Bdward o/c Fadie RODNI, a brother of Dr. Walter RODNET, came

to notice la 2964 as e mambor of tho Editorial Board (Assistant

Editor) of the dorit Intin Aneridan Affairs Publicationa.

Ir. RODID lived with him in London IIon 1963-66 and nocompaniod

SEC BE I NO FOREIGN DISSOM

DISTRIBUTION

ES GORY

103-2-5514

793-5-4

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SE CED I NO WREIGN DISSEN

bim to meetings of various extremiat group with which bo

was connoated.) / (Hold Comment:

Dr. Walter Anthony RODNET??

Guyanan, employes of the University of the lest Indios in

Kingaton, has reported to bave convened i meating oi tri

studants os campus on 13 February 1963 in connection with

rorolutionary|cotivitien.)

JAMES also Porarded to ROll & CirculaI

letter, addreasad to FOWS and the members

of the JeIM,

OF ENGIAND (NPFE), 454 Earlafield Road, Wandaworth, London,

S.W. 18, informion him that on 4 and 5 May a longrese oi

leninist citizaas of England and othar citizens Living,

working and studying in London, would be bela to Inaugurate

tha VPIEs and requesting bim to send a delesata from tbe

JOWN and/or a festernal nessage of revolutionary greetings

and solidazity to tha Congress.

In support of thia Janss

inzorned ROWs that the nembers of the WEIE vere the only

white poople tho had quiath but publicly cooperated with

and supported the COl; and thay and the AFRO-ASIAN LEBBATION

FRONI (NER) (representing the revolutionaries of the national

Liberation novenents vith headquarters in. London) had tested

and proven the WeED menbers to be the only fanzine lariat:

Iorisists 11 Boltain... RObE vas told that it was very

important and of treat uganer to their cause that s message

of solidarity for the Congress should ba sent fron the ICiM.

(Janaice Sarvice Corment:. A message: of solidarity has beer

(3) Is la said that besauce of his job Rows

now has no tims to davoto to metings, but be bas been

nakings sridr o1 the Bible in which ha has fourd certais

passages deslize with revolution which he believes he cas

use to advantage; and has concoived the idea of developing

his rev0bhb0nary novenert along religious lines,. as the

Janticon people are more inolined to support orgasisations

With + 10101e 210102.

Ir, Cieddi JAGAN

Do Chaddi JAGAN arrived la Janaica by air fron

Ho was sot met a arital

al Fallindoos Alrport but vas frivon to the home or DI: Clive

IEOMAS by s pansonger who arrited on the sano aircraft. His

presence in the Island was not generally know and no informa

on had boor nineired that any neeting or disciaaion took.

PISCO: OR 1 APril DI. YEOMAS socompanied bin to the Airport,

and ba left for Curaçao enroute to Port-01-Spain and Georgetows.

(Isold Comment:: DIs Clive TOlands THOMAS, & Guyanati, 1a an

extrene leftlot and & locturer on esonomice at the University

02 the

25

West Indies - UNI.

Illagal Denonstration at Iluidas Vala, St.

Cacherine

(1) On 9 April a group of citicens in luidaa

Tale staged an illersl narch in compaction

with the funeral

0R DI, HaFtin Iuthor KING.

the police had difticulty in

broaking up the demonatration

and subsequently arrested

two of the leadera,

BAsiL JACISON,

a aon of Councillor

Baldwin JACISON,

and Delroy BaCKBARD

(NER), a schoolteachar.

Caarges of brutality have bees made against

tha Police,

ON 20 APFIL JACHSON ANd BECKTORD consulted Dennis DAIT wita

a rior to bringlag au sotion for assault.

took tha

"OrtUaiL tO Al DAIL tO naka amangemento for (socialiats'

Corn Kingsion to visit Muidas Vale at

an early date to lecture

---

## Page 5

13-00000

BEC RE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN A

a group of youths there: Cecil ANDERSON of the JOll was also.

invited to viait Iluidas Tale when arrangements for the leatare

were conpleted.... (Jansica Service Comment: JACKSON, Wbo

describes binself as a Radio Engineer and Sociological.

Student, lolt Jamaica in 1959 Ior Ingland and spent four

years there studying Radio and Television Engireering.

1953 bo went to Spair and during 1963-64 made Frequent visits

to rangiers.: In Jue 1964 be waa impriaoned in spain for

drug smuggling.

Ho was deported to Tangiorg in April 1965,

and eventually repatriatad to Janaica on 22 Jure 1965.

He

declared to be a stringh supporter of Commuian and bad

Conmanist literature in his possession.

Hs was at that

time closal associated with a member of tha YOUNG SOCI1II3I

IBASTE (IST

who Lived at Iluidas Talo.)

D.

. The Jansioa Couneil for Hunan Rights

(1). The first issue of the lenslotter of the

Janaica Covacil for Hunan Rights (JCHR) was circulated to

manbers during the month.. This is to be a quarterly ..

pulication.

It was reported that in additton to Dr. M.B.

DOUGIAS and Noel EDWARDS, Mrs. Iaon BROWN of the Jamaica

Toachers! Association and Edwin. JOMBS ON THP NEW HORIT

GROUP (IVG) were co-opted to the Mansging Cormittee for

1967/63.

At the time of publication of the Herslatter there

were only about 90 menbers, and the total resou-cos af the

Council vera £20.7-3-

copias. of the. Constitution and a

stetement by the Council on "The Passports Issne" vers

also circulated to members.

(2) On the Subjeot of "Tho Ninaton Davia Cases,

it was reported that a special sub comittee has been set up

to investigated the whole question of passports and the

Couroil is investigating the possibility of legal sation

to test whether such action by the Goverument amounts to

an intrinzomont of the citizen's Constitttional kighte..

If the Council's largars adviso that it in wortanhila to

institute such proceedings, it will be nocessary to raise

subatantial funds to enable the Council to sponsor thie

0830 г

Members have been asked to give their support

I. Tho University of the West Indies

(1) DI. CLITO THOMAS

The Cuban Conaul was asked by DI. THOMAS

to ascertain whetber. Cabe would bo interested in attending:

the conferance scheduled to be held at Mons in May in order

that an invitation could be sent to bistovernment.

No-reply

had been roceived by valazquaz who promiaad to bend a reminder

and lot II: IHOMAS knov as soon as a reply was rocaited.: It

is underatood that the Univerait proposed to invite Dr.

Salvador VIIASECA, the Cuban soholar.:

DI. THOMAS saso.:

requested copies of thoback issues of the

Tanorans Economica

books waich he bad towd useful in the teaching of economic

problems.. (FIeld Comment:

This confarence was to be linowa

AS

"The Commonwealth Caribbean: Dimensions of Hemisharica

Development.")

(2) : Iho Guild of Undergraduates

-On 25 April Ralph GONSAINES, prO-Commuaiat

Sociel Scionces student from St. Viacent (Monthly Report for

December 1967, para.. 1066, refers) was olected President of

the Guild o1 Undergraduatas ior the academic Jear 1968/69.

CONSALVES is alão Director of "The University Student Speals

(DUSS) ".

Flections.to

till other unecutive yosts in the

Guild wore fixed for 2 May.

(3) Ihe Department 01 Extra-Mal Studies

---

## Page 6

13-00000

S'E CHE T/NO. FOREIGN DISSAM

4(a) On 26 ApFil a publio

discusaion on

¡Civil libertias in the Caribbeazi was hold at 21 Camp

Road, Kingston, by the Departneat of Extra-fural Studies

in collaboration rita tha POLITICAL ACADEMY (PA).

Boy

JOHNSTONE, Prosident of the lA, presided. lbout thilty

five porsons atlaadod.

Edwin JONES, &

representatite of

the NOW WORLD GROUP (DWG) on the JAMAICAN COUNCII FOR

RUMAN RIGHIS (CHa), Ied the diacussion.

The other speaker

ras-Walter RODE= Both speakers referred to the "suppression

of divil liberties" by politiciana in the Caribbean Islanda

and partioularly in Jamaica.. DI. RODNEY spoke of the

suppression of the black people by the rites and urged the

biack people to organize and light against this.

The

tina had come la said, for black pooplo to rule Only by

force oould the black peope of the Caribbean Islands Iree

chonselves, only la Cuba were civil libe ties enjoyed by

tho poophe. Es recomended that the citizens of Jamaica

should be armed and trained and taught to deland civil

liberties.

Hd condamed "Polico brutality". He oriticized

the seizzze passports by the Government and in conclusion

said that he would not be surprised 11 the Government placad

restrictions on him lo- hia opas critician of its polioies.

(b) Among the who took part in tha

opal discussica wers DI- MOJABAZAII, DI. M. B. DOUGIS"

Richard JACOBS, FraNt GORDON and Winston DAVIS. ALI

condamned. "Police brutality"and the solaore of paasports...

DAVIS sail: that Janaicans should resist Police brutality.

He said that the Goremment permitted publle protont. agsinat

descrimination and approasion in foreign countries"

*bat

denied the right of Janalena to protest against injuatice

in their owa countrr..

subversive Interature

: (1) Dariog the month mi a total of 577 copiea

07 Chinese Literature: arived in the Island and eight copies

were seired.

(2) One hundrod copies of Iafornation Bulletin

Iron Czechoslovakia were also seized.

G=

Cuben Activitioa

(1) ArrivAl. 01 Cuban Refugees

: On 1 April sit about 0900 boars; a Cuban

Fishing boat girived at Negril Beach, Hanover with 24 Eubans

na Board.

They bad left la Sanja de Monte Jordo; yesi Plays:

Ins Coloradas, Buba on 6 April.

Iverty three were lafugees,

IncuRios tou familias

Tao operator of the boat; Sergi

BASO PALACIO, who alleged that be was forced to made the trip.

was handed over to the Cubas Consul.:" Tha refugees have aaked :

for political asylu perding admission to the United States of

Anaries

(2) Arrival o1 Cuban Iug Boat

-(a). Tao Buban Tug Boat, NATACHA, arrived in

Kingston toon Cube on 13 April and departed Pron Montego Bay

The puross of the visit was to transport to Cuba

boata brought toJamaica. used by Cuban refugoes. Ihe three i

suda boats tere taked away;

• Sergio BASO PALACIO returned to

Oub: 2board the NAPAORA.

I'ho Cuban Consul, Armando VEIAZQU2Z.;

visited the boat after its arrival in Kingaton and was also.

prasest at Montego Bay when it departed.

(3) Cubar Diplonats - Manuel ZECISVARRIA SANCIEZ

Caban Courier, arrived in Janalea

on 17 April Iron Mezico and

wasted on 24 april for Merizo en coute to Cuba.

He was net

tween odd by YSTAuQus2,

---

## Page 7

13-00000

(4) Robert Illit viaited the, Conswiate during the month.

(Jamaios. Service Comment: It has, been reliably seported thett

Mrs. Stephen HILl (nother of Robert ITIU, of Celebrity Concerta.

is meking arrangementa for the National Ballat of Cuba to perform

in Jamaice.: The Cubas Conoul participated in the disoussiona

attendant on thise arrangements.)

(5) IINANCH - During the moath an anount of 1625 was

received from Cuba through Barclays Bani foI the Cuban Consulate:

I'ho sun of £333-6.8 waa credited to-the Consulate's Material.

Account st the loyal Bank of Canada dnd 2291, 13.4 to tha

Special Account.

(Janaican Service Comment:

has now bees established monthly by the Ministry of Exteral

Arlairs in Havana through Barclays Bark.)

RASTAPARIAN Aotivity

(1) HarOld LAVRENCE O/c Duckie, selt-styled leadar

$ the Rastafarians in Savanne-la-Hat, and George MYERS wee e

the spastera at a nesting organized recently by the Anglican

Hrotborhood of sts Andrew in Savanna-le Har, to wich seven

Rastafamens were invited to sive a brief history of their

doottine.! Inwience maid that they were deapised and rejected in

by the Goverment and the publio because of the doctring of peace

and lore which they preached, but Babylon - the Western World -

would soon fall by violonce and they woold then establiah

God's Righteoua Virgdon: MYERS called lor tolerance: and

reapece for the Rastafarian doctrine.: Hs referred to the

Injustioes being nted out to the brether oppression by

the coverment, brutality by the folice and rejection bi

society - hich bad raulted in thebrethem developing, a violent

attitude. In thair sarch bi confort.and liberation they

bad turned to Faile 3BIASSIB...:

He asked the Church, the o

Goveruent and the biblio to bols by providing work bi then:

New Creation Peacemakers Tabaraale (Hornerly Atrioan

Reform Chürch) "

(1) Contact with loft Wiag

(a) On 31 March, Walter RODNET, accompanted by

bis wilo and children, went to Kemys Fill, Clarendon, whore

he hold a private discission with Claudius HENRI, Edna HENRI,

Rupert AENER and Kennath MORGAN. RODNAY stated that his

involvement with the Her. Creation Peacemakery labernsele

(NErr) depended on the continued expansion of the novent

anditire training of roug ma in revolutionary matboda.

He referred to the worsening economic situation in Jamaica

which be doclared, vaula drive the masses to rebellion,

the extent of which would be determined by the pirective

BEN LOZALE had net Peter PARBRA, formerly Of Inor Priatory,

who was a trotskyist. He olained that he hinsalt was a

InterpationaL Revolution.

ready for a revolution and it the pressure is kept up and

the messes trained, in dus course, Cagitalism coula be overthrown:

(b) It was the opinion of HENRy and his supporters

that tith the number of able-bodied men in the organisation,

-a cucessful revolution could be planed minst the Governent

at a füture date.

With this in mind, sailI is now plaing

to lsuncs an aotive campaigo througrout the Ialand and to

..recruit as nany young men as possible into the movanent.

(c) MORGAN suggested that as many NOrI

de possible should be enlisted into the Arny and the Polica

Parce as tasy would obtain wortarhile training and valuable

incoration.

Be spoke of the noed ior literaturg and said

ca Johr MAr2a015, who is employed at the Cuban Consulate,

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

had promisad to obtain some for the organization and dolives

sane at 158 Charles Streot." (Jansioa Service Comment:.. After

the conference, AMil stated that ta his opinion RODNIT ia.

workina for an international orginisation with the latention

of establishing a revolutionary movenest in Janisa and that

he bad seen the potential for a revolution in the NCPI.: He

also thinks- that RODNaY favours the Chinese Cuban fori of

Communion:) : (Bala Comment:

Rupert AWay is & member of a

secret revolutionars group within the JCWM.)

(2). ACPR

a(a) 75 Waltham Park Road.

"Durias themonth

weekly nestings vere hold by the NCPT

at 75 Walthan Park

Rudolph GORDON and Roy CREI were the chief speakars.

Reforgncos vero made to tharesent assassination of Martin

Iuther KING and a warzing issued that the Frime Minister

should be careful as he might be the next one to be shot.

(Membars were encouraged to join a "partaer" of ten shiplings

weaklz as this would assist in the running of the churca)..

stated that HENRY was gathering soldiers to "fight

the war":

He spoke of the inoreasad tares leviod on the.

poor people phila cortain Civil Servants had bees given trage

Increases snd lembers of Parliament providad with antertairrant

allowances.

He rafered to the bardsnipa endured by Cubana:

2ndo- BAIISIA and praised Fidel CASTRO LOI what ke yas doing

for his countIN.

Thoses who were leaving Cuba ho accusad of

havinz a "colonial" mentality.

(3) Aotávities in Clarendon

in lempe HilI vere the three day calebration and Baption

troN 30 March to I April when AHHE and about 78 othere were

baptized, (thus brirging the total suber baptised to about.

839) 2nd the fiction in honour of HeNRIta 65th birthday on

28 April

The day'e celebration commenced at about 11.00 am

vith a pasudo roligious service conduated by HENRI, folloved

by a mich past by the Boys Brigade and the crowning of

FENRI by Onroy BROWN. The crown carried a black star which

BROWN Baid symbalized the BLACK, POWBR MOVKMONT (3PM) of waloà

Haint is the leader, and that he would reiga forever.

In his address, ATIll said that it was Black Fover that would

dalend the Blsak man's rights in Jamales so they should :

sUppOrt TINKY. Ha was then presented with several envelopes

containing nonor.: At the ragular meeting FUNRI continued i

to declare bia intention to"take over" the Governent by 1972

and asked bis mombers to be loyal to bin as very soon tbey.

would be callod upos to defend the lause... There was no.

turing back, for his work and sorth bad gained' the recognitions

of the Soeislists in Jamàice and he would establish his.

"31000 in Jamaica for the Gorer-sent believe that they ars

night".

his (HENRI'S) Kingdom will be like it

clothare to the poor.

He was no longer interested in the

Beck-to-prica Movement as he and his followers must enjoy

the amenities la Janaica.

deliver the poor people fron their sufferings and like CASIO,

his rond, he vas deterined to deatroy the minh uen in

Jamaica.

Despite tha effort of the Goverament, HiNkY declared,

Janoica would very abortly embrace

stop

this.

and nothing could

AHWEE stated that HENRY intended to establion a

Socialist Goveronent in Jamaica which would l00k alter tho

valtara of those who have bean rejected by the Capitaliat

Government.

He emphasised that alt the loading countries

in the world vers Sooialist controlled.

raported to be doing a flouriahing businea,

and menbars foal

tais the dolivery or bread thrughout tha islaad will offer

raderful opportunity to spored the doctrine to

the peopie

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SE C. RE I/NO FORBIGN DISSEN

with whom thoy come in contact and to organise groups.

With

this in mind,

they have been asked to subacribe tovards the

purchase of vans for this purpose.

(4)

ncer sotivities were also noted during the

monta at freen Botton ia Clarendon, in Broes Hitorand Middle

Quarters in St. Elizabeth, and 1n Iort Moreat and Cambridge

Hill in 3t. Tonae. Toas activities included neetings,

recraiting drives, distribution oi literature and, baptions

in the NOPI.

Horld Federation Incorported - About

30 persons attended a nesting of the Ethiopian World

Faderation Incorportted (ANFI) which was hold at la Corona

Ilal], 71 North Streot, on 18 April.: Faughton BROWN stated

tho fundraising drive would continue in the Corporate

Area in an effort to increase the amount of £160 already

collocted to send a delegation to Africa. He saja that the

Fedoration had been granted pernission to stage a narob in

Kingston on 21 April,: This would terminate at ln torona

Hall "berg a concert would be hold as part of the colebration

to mari tho 23rá AbriTersary of falle SHIASSIS'S reiga.

Ethiopias Orthodox Cherch (DOC)

lord Road recantly, and attended by about 25 persons, Z.

Monroe SCARlAr, the tast speaker, laid that the Hovement

was on the verge of aollapsing because members of the Cult

vero not fin anough with the Govoronent about the question

o2 repatriation.

He suggented that they shoald organise

marches in an olfort to force the Goverment to send them

back to dirica, and be urgad then to enulate the Aneriona

Negroos who were fighting for their freedom.

SCARTACT said that Dr. M. B. Douglas bad been

some Rastafarians to become the bead of the organisation

and he was willing to assist then with their plans.

I. Universal Negro Improvement Association (INIA)

(1) Copios of a leaflet issued by the (UNIA) were

round at the intersoction of Hanover/Iav Streets, Kingsto

recently.

Ibe address.of its office (49 Fast Queen Street)

is that os chriatopher HAVRENCE'& JAMAICA CONGRESS OF LABOUR

It la not jet known what, if any, connection existe

between the two organisations:

M.

Nation of Islan (NOI)

(1) 34) Cburck Street - Members of the WIISON laotion

of the NOIrecently removed from 165t King Street to the

Iwo meetings were hold at 811 Church Street

at which the apesters, David WILSON and Eugene AFFLICK,

denoused Christiarity as taught by the white man and

encouraged the audience to socept the doctrine of Islan z3

taught by ALijob MOHAMMAD wio had been "called" to redeen

the back race.

(2) 47 Charles Street

(a) During the mönth four

meetings were bald.

On 3 April IerOT HATLES,

the boxer, said that he

was impressed

with the doctrine and

had witten to Flijah MOHAMED askend

too a scholarahio to enable bin to studs in one of taa Islan

Waiversities ¿a the USA.

Errol LOVI said that only a revol

w1oa could ond the white man's prectice oi robbingtae blade

Purple of everytaing:

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRE I/DO FORSIGN DISASH

(5) At the meting on 24 April,: Cocail CAMPERII

o/o Prince Bustes stated that prenises 47 Charlea Street

belonged to hin and he vas willing for it to be:used

for the assistance of the black race. He called for arity

anohy block people and said that his organisation waa Lizatini

to rule üsmaice.... He told nembers that they should be prepared

to meet the Bey. SEBRRIET! I who would soon be visiting the

(Fiold Comment: CAMPBELl has spoken over Kingston

brosdoasting statina Radio Jansioa and Radiffusion • BJR.

Revarend SHURRIFIE I 1s probably the Arabio organisational

sace fOr Thomas VIEN, an Americar Black Muslin Who together

with one Robert FRAZIER recently visited CAPiStL. FRAZIER

and VIEN wore solsed in. early lay by thejamaican police in

a raids CArPESIL's home whioh also netted & quantity of

Black Muslim Ilterature.)

No Jamaion Congress of labour

(1) Christopher IAVRENCH and W.A.. FUSBT of the Friatera

and Allied Workers Association (PAWA) recently hold disoussiong

concering the expansion of the PAla, and alfillate of the

(Janates Service Comment:: PUSAT 18 amployed by the

lines Printery, but la rederstood that pauphlets put out 2r

to PANA ar produced at the office of tha Lingston and 3t-

(2) IAWRENCE waS alsO in contaot with CalviE DUCESTI.

WIlZian CHARIUS and BOy PETMBARX, and a joist lettar by the

ICT and the JAMAICA COUNTIL OF CONSUHERS UNION (JCCU) :

protesting againt the arrival of the

Janales Provider

whiok it olained roald depriva Jamalonna of work as the chip

was equipped vith mechapical loaders, was sent to the Frine

Miniater-

(3) (Fiold Comment: The JOI recently olaimed

crodit for the first mass mion sotrity ever bold in Janaloo,

e meetlag in commanoration of DIs Martin Iuther Klagi in

IsnUary 1963 IATRINCE was repoited to have been in close

contaot vith InITI and Janet MeHURRAI, Canadias Connuiete

visiting Jamalca to asanss the political situation.)

0.

Black Power Hovement (3PM)

(1) During the month, several discussions wore bold

at 4 Cookhorn Inse concomtas the BPM.

(2) :

On the 5 and 3 April disquasions were hold

by Geores Vastat on the possibility of bolding demonatrationa

at the American Babassy to protest agalaat the

agenasination

Of DI, Martin Inther KING.

TASSEL elained that there was s

United States oitinen biding in Jamaica to escape the draft who

had in his possosaion recording of speeches nade by the late

Malcoln X during 1964.

One of these was entitled

"The BALlot e

of Bullota".' He stated that KING's death dieproved his theory

0f nor-violence and was bringins.to promirenco men Like

StOkeLy CARMICHASL and H. Rap BRUWN.

"The denonstration

sugseated by vassil did not in the event take place.

Josoph

(3)

About 40 pergors including Winaton MONROE,

CHRISTIR, ROY JATYRSY, Leonard SOLOMON and one ly

SURYAD,

the American relevied to above, met at 29 Fourth

Street,

Ironch Ious (Dallas Corver),

where SURVAD, identified

as 4 31ack Muslin aud a member of the BPM, answered questiona

Jut to him by the gathering.

It was understood that SURVAD

in jamaica to

so solloit support for the BPH is the USA

1s trell us to establiah a branch bore.

ike record "tha

Ballot so Bullats" was played by JUlIAD and recorded by MoNRoe.

As this nooting SURYAD said that ho had come

20 inurice because of ita miti-racial population and because it

---

## Page 11

13-00000

75'9

SE CRE I NO FORDIGN DISSEM

was likoly that the ciril Righta boys would bave to comer

bore during the sumner wasn they made things "hot" and

were buated by the Authorities.

During a private discussion with SURVAD at

Hernan BXNG's home in Penbroke Hall, George MYRS suggested

that the rocording of "The Ballot or Bullets" should be....

circulated looally and that Frince Buster should bo asked to

assist, with a vier to salas being pronoted close to this

year's

Independence Celebrations.

SURVAD accepted MYSR3' invitation to attend

= gat-together wbich ha was arranging in Savanna-la-Mar on

I1 HaJ+

and to spend a weak or two with him there.

discussed the Congress on Racial Equality (CORE) and the

3EM1,

and it was suggested that a local Steering Committee

sould be appointed to consider the formation ol a group

in. Janalca.

(7) A MIERS said that everything ahould be done

to establisb the Movenant on a firmfooting.. In the absence

•i a Eavolutionary Movenent, the "Ravolutionaries" abould

acquaint themselves of the vorld situation. Ho recormended

tho Importation of revolutionary literatura fron 311 avail-

Close contact

ahould be maintained

with

the IOW WORID GROUP- (NG), and with the labour novement,

HENRY'S NCIT and any other organisation with a genuine nass

He pointed out that the duty of the revolutionIy

wos to coordinate and direct the action of the masses: during

a revolution:: He prediated econonio chaos remilting from

the present world nonetary orisia..

(8). (Fiold Connent:

The Jamaican police eventus]1

petablisbed that DAVIS was waated in the USA for armed

coobery and turnad him over to American authorities on

25 May 368.

Field Dissem:

State, CINCSO

0 2 7 2/D0 FORBION DESCEM

103-2-5/7

---

