# 104-10180-10193

## Page 1

104-10180-10193

4/I

E-y-

Carol en lé.

1960

BEI G:" ON ASCAITIZAY

collowine. Infornation, securel b!

fron his corersatione

with

juillerme, De. Ojela,

tu tre ela rage errando,

resus,

antin,

oraclela,

and 1a

animaciation o? Latest

cret happenand and present feudern

age in magal to

iscanhraye

Hate parse checkanhyay a reperts

• fr

accuracy

11so was the

flet

one

Escambray arainst

Castro

coriny.

time went

eng

other

chertly after

hie taking

ever

• the

Troups. too:

atris ard

started

ore-ite

1n

Jifferent zoneg

througieut

tha

thege

frauss were

Sinecio,

Benvive,

Duque,

ALba

Ramirezy

etc.

etc.

a 3

corted.

Guille.re.

whe

well knven and

Liked In "that

-zone

a S

che

1ạ

Đn®

the

responsible for che

Front of

fight against

Batista®

went

to the zone

from Havana,

probahl

In the

first

quarter of 1960

t®

erranize

719

on moup and

•cerate a

clandes-

tine Fallo

stat l'en,

Juilderpe

previous

lia?

radie

station hidden

and

left.

Fren the

fipht against Batista,

# 3

a3

lone arns and flarg hillen

In.the

Illlerne til not take up arms at

tha

time.

Hiis proup

was pettinn or.

he

and

•thang were

surprised

someti ne

tarer

sone of suglierne's

hident isioner but Guillerre

AWay

Matter,

and care to

tarand were he perained

i altinpacontact

f.en

the

ipopany

had evi fentl.

and his

"armany?

bather lefinite currartg

probatly

Lie

time Guilierro,

Janche

and

others in the d/d ale puhlle

thelr

stand

againat..

cormuni sm

30179

Guillerne

there

wher

inseractions

1959•

Finally

given to pet him

out or open acted

4i 7

chen

ev1

trained by

the

Courany.

•no

Cursier:

specific

plans of

action ir

goni ses

Las

back soretine In late.

Jul

a C1

arly

agreed

nart of

•I°

195

Ravana and

Hugust

L•US

then

to or garize

Up

hat

•eed

th

instructions

ree. linate

and

Escanbrav

#nen

were in

eart

there

and

cooperation.

contact with

•*t: p bus

was

Tach frap

Wa'1

firtiting,

on hig

In

er a enal

arre ancy

wanted

•aCi

be

MCA:

ally Sinecio

"a cause

at Fis

eader of

•р:

• #У

SUS

and Benny. In

"La

in lid.

La four s

VIC®

del

32,

also to sinecies

1aft

a" on

Septerher

wit!: &

delay

hop.

rare contact, in

"enfleges

with Guillerro

in retune

la under desus inaigtance and

rears

an

On

the

way the rarty.rer.

enny

wag

taken

90:19

a coorerative near bv

prisoner.

At

scheduled wit!

the

midn

27-23

radle

contact war

'ase but

C? received the

hase In his

got.

In

holief that theye did

ial Ke

act at

all with the hase,

the

groun proceed

the last

wall.

from

salil

Camp

stop

i•'s camp, which is 1 'our

in

Pice del

Tuerte,

Sineci

was gurreundel ly treeps

i nu

t,t,=

party could not proceed am

until a breach could be mad

ria de.

illio there t!is party hearil

the

to procond

to sinecia

Cd: "12.0

Guillorme

InAnabanilla.

P'ot bainp able

dector

and Jesus tocidel to

me rest

*1

*re party renaine:

ther

and later on were able to

102.1

Sinecie'3

infllerno

sith the loctor

ind desus

retioned

19 Lad

their equipment in the last

ston before

(iernandez'y

add

the

hauge.

There

has

(hotore)

later.

-akir

Curanaya

three

Guillore

miliciano

asked

idertify

rot

doctor

has

• 9

ir.

his

anar

gi M

anict'we

but

1g op

ck

that

4079

and

hoo 1

he

(nap

do the s

up

hig

1.o.

¡mal cultura bie"!

449U9

at-ipe:"

a 121: 1

h;

t: #

.*=or

ghostest

091181

=61

---

## Page 2

•October 16, 1960

---continued.

somewhere In

Hay ana ricar his house. During the talk eyeryone Mas presented

as caught with

Sinecio's coup up in army in the bacambray, and that Gui-

some of them never arrined t

Since camp. sue reports are chac neclo Aroup tournever the attack

until they ran out of amerition and then surrendered.

Other reports say.

that there was not much renting becaune apparently the ea let loose to

was covered

witha ras that rendored them useless, that

jog was then

-ack them down and al! "" then were arrested

without much of a resistance.

before durinr, an r

-ent over therers eat were drepped and which Snecte rained were ar

ino. Il seems there was ra--

than just one drop, since the drep on kept. 2

which was secured hy she nilitia in

"La Campana

have veen received by Use and Duques!s preups. Suring the

unt that silente

goon squal was organisel ani gent en Retober

Il to cry

"laredon",

hut the

fran Santa

Clara

defirttely with the irig-oner;and

en

12 startes a rags concertratien

to ask

eath sentence,

but

the rans

concentratien

Inte

communist

e: Tercy and cormutatien

cannered the apen

net

clear

wether

in'omties

alle-chem to proceed.

It is not

the

t'e Egcambray and Guillerge llaked out before

find

under

evidently much

•of It has Laked out anl everyboly 1a

wait ind

1. 0.909

infiltration has been

accomplishod.

hen

tremendous

among

the groups

connected

gith

the

action

ar.!

the

the maple

ationary

in general, but it has

1ºast

in that sone.

&

oscantray:

Rise,

hest organise?,

Duque,

mOre

fighting

ar in see

nire t1!1

their

effert.g.

that there hag

heen

1n

astra:

the trai

and the militia antlor army his

been

aVe.

Terps,

are fightine hack inliciting

before,

re fuestr

arma i nil ammunition

which

they

11d

chael recelved fron subgdquent succesaril drops.

nes

Obserrarien:

Guillene rever

cid acconplisa

his sissier as he never 111

arrive

the groups un i:

in the

Egcanbray as Military

Coonilinator

fer the

his

isath

has

achlevel the uni fration a that

frenty an

the

serlance

leath,

, e:

in

Guillame Nes

one with

clo

place

ory

and a cor. on

the

only

objective.

Ths

and

simple group leadors.

Mill arme

111 hes talk during the r-ad?

not off. any comments fer

Me priteners were for cordired oi

even abused,

except ey i auch.

arainst.

The tribunal post

oned the death sentence

despite

three itres oh October Illierme in

t'e fact ti at d'are jas an arilert persenal reason on killinteastro and

particular iho hal allays opposed

anl steod.In front of Fi!el

against communisa since their university Jaso

Euldently, the jury was

riptical o: the politica: consocuences such death sentences would create

acong, :i."

Cuban reorie in zeneral, especlally when Guillre

ant some of

the other ones were actuai! irarel me

with Sinecia.

¡score cio firing squal Guillerme stated that

Auer seedede wears

trust

1n God and in the people". & Hey were erecuted with auteratic finalan 12,

quillerio ali so got tie

ral an Instant leith at 9:00 p.u. or.

a little distance

"ud jampana" Pio

Te hell's here returned to sanda

• clara

Lerefter:, butt: is =0: 19i inow If they have bear roturrel to the

d.

1nd

---

