# 104-10107-10140

## Page 1

104-10107-10140

E UNGLASSIFIED

INAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIT ITIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Acting Chief, CI Staff

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

EXTENSION

2C43

DATE

6977

ORTIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

ANUt

NO.

DATE

16 September 1969

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

Draw a line across column after

each comment.)

2.

3.

OGC--Mr. Houston

7D 01

for your files

OGC SUBJECT: ITKIN, HERBERT

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

7.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

SNOLIOS

610 USE PREVIOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

SUSE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.

-

-

-

41pS

When did you meet Mr. Brod?

When did you report upon Brod to Globe CO for first time?

Have you had conversations with Itkin about Brod? If so, when

(detail each), what was substance of each? (The real point is

whether " is forthcoming on these matters and gives the

appearance of putting all of his memory to work. The object is

elicitation not prejudgment, prejudicial or otherwise.)

What do you know about the Conostoga enterprise? Did you have

a financial or other interest in it? No

When did Itkin (first) tell you that he was an FBI agent? Did you

ever tell him you were an FBI agent?" (Bear in mind we don't know

what the record is at FBI in Boston and New York ref 'Sy,

How much did you contribute financially to the funding of the

Did Itkin ever discuss (or infer) with you any alleged confidential

Service for U.S, Govie before establishment ol".

(July 1957)? From firm founding to your application of CIA (1961)?

In the period since?

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-

-

Did Itkin know you had made application for any federal service?

If so, what service(s)? What was cover story for departure from

firm--was it backstopped?

Have you had personal contact(s) with Gianpiero TALENTI, Itkin's

former brother-in-law?

Has Itkin ever discussed numbered Swiss bank accounts with you?

During your stays overseas, did you communicate with Itkin (or

anyone in his family or office or otherwise)? Letters, telegrams,

long distance calls? If so, are evidences in your files? Substance

of the communications?

Were you aware of Adah Itkin's stay in U.K., 1965-66? What did

Itkin tell you about her reasons for going and staying there? Were

you aware that such a stay involved custodial problems affecting

Adah's two children by her second husband, HERSCH? Do you know

HERSCH?

2

---

