# 104-10161-10199

## Page 1

104-10161-10199

-BECRET

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

47-15453

TRAVEL ORDER

109209

ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT SYMBOL,

8-3570-55-060

OFFICE PHONE

GRADE AND SALARY

NAME

Joneph S. Flocolo

2729

OFFICIAL STATION

TITLE

In 11 end Ille CLArI

finshington, D. C.

YOU ARE HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH AGENCY REGULATIONS.

ITINERARY

Tin shington, Do Co

Neadico City, Medles.

goss

PURPOSE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

se of private autonoble to Mant, orida mtharined best of ind

ravel to be borge by Subject. Encess travel time to be change.

subject's leave.

AUTHORIZED PER DIEM

ЗаСА

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTEDIBY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

7 OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

- 0D/P

ADVANCE OF FUNDS 15 AUTHORIZED.

THEATER CLEARANCE (IF STAINABLE)

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

Most Acred 2r 1957

Upon arrival station

CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY. SIGNED COPY ON FILE IN CENTRAL

PROCESSING BRANCH.

REVIEWED. 'NO CHANGE

NECESSARY.

AMENDED AS INDICATED.

ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

Бот (1)

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER

•20

3

(B)

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE GOVERNMENT

SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUB.

JECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL

TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND

AUTOMOBILE IS AUTHORIZED.

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

RETURN FRÓM POST OF DUTY ABROAD.

INCLUDING EXPENSES

OF TRANSPORTA-

OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO

CHARGE ALLOTMENT NO.

OF iMMEDIATE FAMILY.

HOUSEHOLD GOODS.

PERSONAL EFFECTS AND

AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

DATE

SIGN

war or B 8570=35 050

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL, WITHIN 6 MOS. OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

TYPED NAME AND TITLE OF OFFICIAL AUTHORIZING TRAVEL

DATE

63

SIGMATURE OF OFICIAL AUTHORIZING TRAVEL

21 Ortober 2957

c/SH

FORM NO. 540 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

1 APR 56

---

