# 104-10110-10741

## Page 1

104-10110-10741

SECRET

FILE

AGREEMENT

ALLEN

SRS

I have read and fully understand the briefing statement

made available to me regarding Project

to the United States Government-

I have been advised that due to the nature of this activity

and the maximum priority placed upon secure accomplishment

Lto protec

access to any

SIGINTE

System or related information is

access to such information is granted only when it can be

demonstrated

that the individual will directly further the program or provide

needed"

support

EPLUDA

UM

In ordor to avoid a possible misunderstanding of the rosyaren

factors involveds everyone approved for access to any SIGINT

under the

"Project title,, receives this briefing. Information

will not be disseminated to individuals who are not approved for

access to such information.

Further,

there is to be no discussior

of any specific SIGINT System with persons other than those known

have been

approved.

Having reviewed the above, I hereby accept the responsibility

to handle information concerning Projec

In' accord with the

security measures established. In so doing. _I note my thorous

understanding that continued access to Project

nformation

is based on the "must know" principle and that such"access does not

extend beyond my present position or functional use, which justified

the "must know!

I will accordingly advise the appropriate authorities

of any change in my status and hereby agree to execute a Termination

Understanding upon notification that such is required!

David h. Christ

(Name - Printed)

Hard I Christ

(Signature)

Mor. 11, 1964

(Date)

DO/S+T/ORD/RB

(Organization)

Chief

(Title)

Witnessed By)

SECRET

---

