# 104-10164-10431

## Page 1

104-10164-10431

03

PRO ESTATO MESSAGE

3997

IT ACOST 1959

DO • FEDERAL ERRO OF DIVSYTOATION

MOn, DRECIOS CENAL DITALLTONCE AGENCY

COND, MA 5

Cl, C1/OP3, F1, F1/RO4 3, S/C 2

2÷91

3

DEFERRED AGO 21 21

1 0 855

POUTINE

-C'O CAULE SEC!.

PHORNY

OPERATONAG

IAAAAEDIAFE

Petit

CVT90344

CITE 0M

file maran's s0i-

MOTORN/CONSTIUID CONTACT

& PARA. I - CURA, HABANA

РАНА, 2 - РАМАМЬ, РАКАМА СТТУ

DATE OF DIVOR 10 & 24 400047 1959

SUBJET A FULLICIAL FRANSACTICNS CI DOMINICE BARTONE

DO A PATREY RECTARTE SOURCH, NIO IS OPPOSED TO TER GOVERNIET OF FIDN

CASTRO SUL, FRDE INISTER OF CUEN, NAS REPORTED THAT ON I0 AUGUST 1958 MAJOR

MCALTAY ALEXANDER 'WROAN MET NETH A CROUP OY CURANS OPPOSIO TO GASTED'S RIOTHE

I ACANT, FIORTDA, THE IRANDED WAS HELD AT THE ROME OF DOMINIC I. BARTONE,

$236 CHASE AVIUE, TIANI BEACH. PARTINT AS THE MENTINO MERU MORGAN, LINES (UNU)

DID PILAR DI RIO PROVINCE I CURA, RAMON NISER, AND ANTONIO MINORA. DURINO

TIE MEETINO MORGAN WAS GIVIN 8160,000 JU CARE EX MINERN AND INDORA FOR UPO

ADATIVE CANTRO, (HIADORAPERS COMPLETE. IN MARCH 1959 AN UN

• BOURGE ARPORTED

THAT OIL DOMINIO BARRONI, ALSO INCIM AS NIOX BARRON AND DISORIED AS A PROBPIROUS

ANTERIONY BUAIAZSERAN MOM GIAVILATO, OITO, HAS TRYINO SO BILL SOME ORONSTER (8-

HA) AIRORAVE TO THIS OTBAY AISVOZUTIONATE AID TORGE AND NAD BRTRURNDIO MORDAN,

TRE DONENIC MARTONA INTIONED IN YOUR INHRANTUM MAXED & AUOUNT 2959, YOUR FIS!

MUNIT 109-70979, DONOULINO MOROA, DOMINION. BARRONT, DOSENIO MARRON, NION:

201-269507

MOTORN /CORETTIED CONTRAT

#PRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE I PROMISITED.

Copy Me.

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SETT

MC POZI/CONTINUED OGATEC

3

VO

DIRECTOR

10W0 в

DEPLANED

#OUTINIE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONA

IAMAAEDLATI

the the

our 90344

TO

INFO

CITE DI

ARON, AND THE DOTIC BIRTONE MENTICHED ANION ARE ERLINTED TO BE TEN SAU

PERSOTO)

8. ON Es AUGUST A TAIRLI REITARLE SOUNGE REPORTNO THAT DOMINIC EXRTURE (8IC),

MAOS CITICE IS IN THE MATIONAL BANK BUILDINO IN ATAVE, LAD SINT A INHTER TO PANANA

MERA A LARGE AMOUNT OF CASH TO OPEN A CHECKTRO ACCOUME IN THE PARAL CITY FRANCI

OF FIS NATIONAL CITY BANK. MIS BANK DID NOT ACCEPT THE DEPOSTY DENTIATEL, BUY

A DIDISION MAS EXPICTED EL 26 AUQUSE. MIRIOUS TAHII WAS FRISSURTO FA BIT

S0 NOOSPS THI ACCOUNT, (SOURCE CONNERE. IT IS BITTIVED THAT THE TUNDS SHAS

TONI'S LANNIS TOOK TO PANAYA ARE OCUICED WITH NTERTAN ALEXANDE NORCANO)

-QUADGUARTERS CONINE. MOBGAN FUELICII DICTARID IN HABANA THAT IS HAD RECIVI

075,000 TRON FHI COUNTIRARETOLUTIONARIES YOR USE AGATRST CASTAD. THE JUNDH SIX,

80 PARAMA CITY MAY BE THR DOMPERO BUTE CHU ALONE DIOTANIO T MORGAN AND

thereine

DO TRE SOURON OF CHI INPOHNATION IN PARAGRAPE TO IS AMELIATE AND CATE

DOURT DI KANOISED IN DIVIZOPRIO LEADS ON FILE MAGE.

0060

MSPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OPFICE I PROMITIO,

Copy Ne

---

