# 104-10295-10143

## Page 1

104-10295-10143

in

• ONG

UNT: H8/5

ĐT : 6393

DATE: L8 AUGUST 2962

15

1516

TO • PAILS ANNAVE HADID

FROM: DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

3-32

ROUTING

5

18 AUG iN

15 34 2

SIG CEN

CONF:

INFO ,.

C/WE 2

DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI,

DEFERRED

s/c 2.

ROUTINE

cops@LT67320

TO OPIM PARI

INFO WAVE MADR

DESEAST ETHAY PERUSES ANLASE

file

CITE DiR

30778

BEE PARI 2629 (IN 47183)*

1.

STRONGLI CONCUR CROKERY THAT NO PHYSICAL ELINATION HISSIONS BE GIVER AMLASH/DO

APPROVE TRANDIG IN PLASTIC EXPLOSIVES I CRONIRY ASSESSHENT INDICAT S

TRATING WOULD SERVE TO FIRK UP AND PRESERVE RECRUTTHEHT AID WOULD STRENGIHEN MORALE

AND SOPIVATION OF AT EY GIVING ADDED EXPRESSION OF KUBAR SUPPORT HIS MUSSION.

SUCCEST IT BE EPHASYRO TO RA THAT HIS VALUE TO "CAUSES AS THIS TIME IS AS RUTUSE

SOURCE AND BOT AS "TORCH MAN". ALSO EMPHASIZE THAT AS IS HOT TO EMBARI CH SABORAGS

KISSIONS WITHOUT DIRECT APPROVAL KUBARK. FEEL THAT ONCE A/J RETURNS PERUMEN AND SEES

DIFFICULTY CARRYING OUT SABOTAGE MISSIONS WILL LOSE SPIRIT THIS TYPE DIRECT ACTION.

RBCUEST THAI A/T NOT ES FURNISHED PLASTICS TO TAKE BACK TO PERUMONS

30 IN ORDER OFFSET FRUSTRATION AA BI POSSIBLE LACK OF ACTIVITY SUGGEST FR BE

IN ORAND THAT HS HOT ONLY INDSPENDENT KUTUBE REPORTING SCURCE BUT P/A WHO EXPECTED

PROVIDE OPERATIONAL, LEADS FOR FUTURE RECRUITHENT INTO CHI HUTUBE NET. WS SUGGEST

THIS TO MAKS TASE MORE APPETIZING AS A/I APPEARS NEED OUTEST HIS ENERGY. PAST

EXPSRIDUCR DICTATES THAT SERONG CONTROL RECRUTTING OIR ASSOIS HECESSARI, HE SHOULD

FIRST ADVISE KUBARK OF OPERATZONAL LEADS TO ALLOW TIKE OBTAIN PROPER CLEARANCES, NE

WILL THIN FORIARD OUR APPROVAL FOR RUCRUITIENT. STRESS IMPORTANCE OF HIS NOT PRESERTINO

US WITH FAIT ACCOMPLI IN RECRUITING NST ASSETS AS SECURITY OF OP COULD EASILY BE

COORDIMATIMO OFFICERS

GROUT !

incherched frons

BELEASING OFFSCER

"are

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHERTICATING

OFFICER

Copy Na

201-252234

---

## Page 2

279

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG:

UNIT,

DATE:

HẾ/5

6393

18 AUGUST 62

TO , PARIS JINAVE MADRID

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONE:

5-07

ROUTING

PAGE THO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

OTE DIR

JEOPARDIZED.

40 FOLLOWING LETTER DROP POR A/I USE WHEN OUTSIDE PERUMS OR IN EMERGENCIS

So IN ADITION REQUIRENEHTS DIR 29095 REQUEST HE RIPORT ON FOLLOWINGS

Ao PONR RELAFIOHSHIPS WITHIN CASTRO REGIOS, PARTICUL'PLY BETWEEN 26 JULX

REVOLUTIONARTES AND OLD ITHE PSP COMMUNISTS IN FORMULATION OF POLICY AND ADECOM

ISTRATION CONTROL.®

D. ALL INDICATIOHS CONFLICT WISHIN R LING CLIQUE.

GO STRENGTH, ORGANIZATION, ERUIPIGTT, STATE OF TRADING, POLITICAL

RELIABILITI OF ARMED PORCES.

D. NATURE AND EXTENT OF BLOC ASSISTANCE. INCLUDING ADVICE AND TRAINING.

BE CRITICA. ECONONIC PROBLIMS FACING REGIME AND PLARS FOR COPING WITH THI

FO STRINGER, COHPOSITION, CHARACTER, MOTTVATIONS OF SUPPORT FOR OR

RESISTARCE TO REGIME.

GO WHAT WAS PURPOSE RECEN: INFLUX SOV-BLOC TECHNICIANS PARUMENS. HOW

MANY, WAKE HAVE THRT BESH ASSIGNKD, WHAT IS THEIR TASK, ARE ART MORE EXPECTED,

IP SO HOW HAIL, WaR.

LL. DETAILED INFO CI ORGANIZATION MILITARY SCHOOL A WILL ATTEND, ON

CURRICULUM, PERSONALITIES AND BLOG ASSISTANCE AND PARTICULARLY DETAIS ON

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

RELEASING OFFICER..

Bachind trots

AUTMENTICATING

SECRET

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

sens..

---

## Page 3

ORG 8

UNIT ,

EXT

DATE ,

WE/5

6393

18 AUGUST 62

то .

PARIS JISIAVE MADRID

FROM,

DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SACRET

$-62

ROUTING

6

PAGE TWO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

SPECIALIZED TRADHIIG COURSES.

IS ANY STAFEATS MADE TO A/I BY HIGH OFFICIALS CONCERNING ABOVE

ROQUIRAKERTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH MADE

END OF MESSAGE

* Reference RYBAP

TF/PT Coordinated in draft Ronis

COORDINATING

OFF

chucted tram enters

omgrong on

SECRET

declassificatio

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTMENTICATINO

OFFICER

Cory No

---

