# 104-10185-10161

## Page 1

104-10185-10161

2a2aà i intestano estazza.

MATINTAL PENTENEO ME CA: MAIDIARTIDE IN

FILE TITLE /NUMBEP/VOLUME:

Licaley (ine l'ileune)

_iperatiins

52-6: - 129/3

INCLUSIVE

DATES:

25 Jon 1915 - 21 Sept 1966

CUSTODIAL UNIT/ LOCATION:

nos: 2011,

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

TATIE

1 RADE

RECHIVED RETURNID

7:35

15 ANc-38 Au 15,1718

17 AL.

REVITED BY

(PRINT /TE)

EDLAPER

LOPEZ

STONATUR: OF

OP REGGWED FROT THIS FII!.

B0n225/15l0

RETURN 7O PE: 1.

MATERIAI

IS ile Cilti.

Fole

---

## Page 2

SECRET

28 JAN D

FROM (Headquarters component)

3F/1

TO :

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

FID/AN

TO : (Station/ Base)

FROM: (Division)

Chief of Station, Mexico Clty

Chief, 'H Division

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

A. COMFLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12.

E ITEM 10 ENTER OLD TITLE WMEN AMENDING A TITLE. CITE

ARY FILES. SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-

B ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST HE STERILE SINCE THEY ILL

LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 1O MAY

APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE.

C ITEM S-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.

QUESTED. TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED

IN A FILE ON TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

O ITEMS I AND B-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM.

BOLS

FIELD

STATIONS

AND LIST

HEADQUARTERS

ELE.

F. ITEM 11-A RECOROS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE-

MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CUDIS

QUESTS

CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

CODE (FILE) NUMBER

COUNTRY NUMBER

SPECHIC SETACT NUMBIN

SUBJECT

PROJECT

3. FILETITLE SPECIFIC SUBJECTI

1.79 13

LICOOKY • Operations

ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYSIS ACTION

DISPOSITION

X OPEN FILE

BMEAn FILE TITLE

& REMARKS TFOR FIELO DISTRIBUTION)

CLOSE FILE

(INDICATE DISPOSITION)

DESTROY

DESTROY THRU (DATE)

T. INTERESTED STATIONS

HMM!

B. INTERESTED HEADQUÄRTENS DESK

50

FILES ACTION

HOLDIN

CS FILES

PESTRICTED

UNRESTRICTEO

"TE. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HERSQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS,

PELPARE FOLDER AND

SEND TO REQUESTER

in the inter she stead.

COARCERE DANENTLY TO

Pustas /5/1

BNDORSEMENT

12.

COCRDINATION

IGHATLREDS BRANCH/DESTI

PpROVAL

CODE FINE: NUMBER

124/

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL:

FREN 2593

---

## Page 4

1d-0d0d

SECRET

TWHEN FELED NO

19 SER S6.

FROM: (Headquariors component)

W1/1

TO

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION I ACTION

RID/AN

TO

: (Staflop/Bosel

FROM: (Division)

Mexico C1tz

WHD

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12

ITEM -ID-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE. CITE

ANY FILES. SUCH AS 201 OR PHOJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST DE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL

LATEO TO THE FILE COVIRED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 1O MAY

APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

ALSO BE USED TO GIVE HEASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE-

D'EM G-ALL REMARES MUST BE STERILE

QUESTED. TO IDENTITY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO DE PLACED

IN A FILE OR TO MARE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS

ITEM Y AND A -USE FIRST TWHEE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-

BOLS FUR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE.

MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC COOES

OURS IS ARNSOR SOUR CET ONES ON ALEMS ACTION BE:

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

CODE FILEI NUMBER

SUBJECT

PROJECT

COUNTRY NUMBER

50

TATEGORT NORDIN

-SPECIFIC SUBTECT NUMBER

6

129/3

3 FILE TITLE ESPECIFIC SUNTECT PROJECES LEGITED TO IS SPACESI

LICUOKY/Operations

ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYSIS ACTION

OFEN FILE

I CLOSE FILE INDICATE OSMOSITION:

RETAIN

AMEND FILE TITLE

4: 632021

REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTIONI

Proj 1s terminated

DISFOSITION

TDESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED

THISU •DATED

/ INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLYI

rAM

TA INTERESTEO HCADQUARTERS DESA LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTY

50

FILES ACTION

RESTRICTEO

UNRESTRIGIED

10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL MEADOUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI

Pilos attached for ratirerent

CED TO FRONES AR

CHARDE PERMANENTEYT

OFFICER & DESM

11.

_ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF BRANCHIDESRE O

125

Daß Sept 66

FORIA

ONSOLETE PHEVIOUS

12-83 812

01TI0N5

1413-6

12

COORIINATION

NATURE DERRAND/ SER

FOLKANLE

50

SECRET

VERIFIEO

HUND APROVAL

129/3

1-6s COPY

---

## Page 5

DISPATCH

Chief, Wi Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

LAFO

PROCISSING ACIION.

DARNED ROAR 1NOEA9

NO MOCKING REQUIRED

ORY' QUALIFILD DESH

CAN NUDGE INDEXING

Chief Of Station, Merivo City

Porvarillay of Clippings and Cormenta Concernin, Conference on

LICOORT-1/ JewLah MDority la the Soviet Union.

ACTINI REJUIRED. REFLRENCES

Action Begutred: J Hones FIl.

As Headquarters 1a siready mare, a Latin American Conference to Study

the Situation of the Jevlah Aldority in the Soviet Union (Conferencia Latino-

anericana de Estudios sobre la Situación de la Minoría Judía en La URSS) vas

held in Mexico City durine the perfod 15 - 15 May 1900. Judging by nunerous

articles in the press, Politica,

Les Tus is l'Extoo, Sucesos Para Todos (see

- attachments under separate cover) and excerpes iroa conversetiong between

nuzerous persons on LLENVOY and LIFtAI, the Sovlet Embaddy, the Mexican

Coccuniaz Party (PCH - Partido Comnista Horiceno) and other groupe and Lodivi-

dual Commutats vere deterained, 1f possiale,

to prevent the Conterence from

being hold and, felling that, to discredit it coupletely and pin the ODYOKE/

ODAcID label on 1t.

Despite their efioria and the voluminoua adverse propaganda,

both before end alter the Conference, the Conference was heid and was probably

raidly nuccessful.

Polftica, I May lJc6, caried an article attacking the proposed Con-

terence and Midiculing sose of the lestcan perticiparte (Attachnent Al.

contains, among other thines, a partial reprint of the text of an interview

or statenent by coles 8. Leanov, Fresa Aitache of the Soviet Babessy,

1n

which be states that Mexico should not be dras into the cald war propazarda

baitle, and be maintaina that Jevs in the Soviet Unlon are not ustreated or ..

discrininated egalne.

In additlos to the attacis and counterattacks in the

press, efiorts vere nade (based on LIPLAT On Errique SiD Coler, Gerard

PIERNE-CHARLES, add WEINOX) io prevent Carlos Pellicer, & darilne of the lestcau

left but not a fornal PC server, iron takinó part; Pellicer is an official of

the dext can Comittee for the Defense of the Jewe 10 the Ussr (Cosité l'exicano

Pro Defenda de los Judios en la Urión Sovléilca), Política, 15 lie laio

CONTINUED

"=..

Attachoeitas

Na stated above, UNDER SEPARATE: COVER

Distribution:

3 - Cites, kil Divialoo, "latte use

DATE

CIAT5M1141WL 78

ES4-2201

+19581-49-388

SERIE

501-12013

---

## Page 6

SECRET

COTTIRATION OF. DISPATCH

ITH-22207

(Attachen: I) costlaued the stack on the Conference and 1t0 participantu,

clelalas la elect trat 1t 1a a clear anti-fover more incred by OLACID.

16 lay, according to the article, enorous cigatures bad been collected ola

progresaive nonllesto".;

protestiny the Co:terance.

The diat ductios many well

Aliachou Elsa (ALinchsent C) 10 e

"procresalve naalicolo", thies us puilichei ta fa bla on 10 hay loii,

and a copy ot a sanifesio (Arachnert D) publiniod 1n L Herco.

üy the frulena Comitzee or the belone on the deve in the Ussi, In which a

nunker ol demida are waic on the sovie: Guverncent tita respect to the jewn and

tie•s rebta.

Lis Voz de Mexico, 15 day dire (Attacingent E) carrier ar artiele hitterly

aliacklug the Conference, union It. charges 10 veins organised and held ly troupe

and persons in the service of ODACID.

It spectitcally nunes LiCOOKY-l, although

the latter's rano la lucerrectly spelled, as oue of ihose responsible for the

Conference and Baje she ia

"wali coonected" wilh ODYOtE palice.

21 lay 1Sir, carrled an article (Autechuent F) attacking the Conference end 1ts

orgaalaira and charglos tha: there oce

sintever torces batial the Conference.

Tale arsicle carries a picture of "icodit.

Bucesos, a June Life, Incändel an Inderted shest, (not found in all coples

of thia eclelon entiulor "An Agent of the FDI and INTERPOL, ir ibe Asociation of

Mestcan Witwerg, " which deala ali exclusluch uta wcat-, her eruaion iron

Chile, vort la Mexico, and cortacie and activitlea l laxico.

It chares tba: In

Maxico sie 10 VarlinG ior Daulsà Jaceo, who ls ramonalblo to 30108% (ittachnent o).

5. LICOOTY l's raDe appeared in a soulco (Astechoen: F.) apearias in El

Excelsior, 26 May Lic by Vicente Elbovesria del Predo, Erasurer of the Mexican

Ánnocialion ot Writers (NA - Asuclacios de Locritora de México, A.C.), shica

sloply stated hat LICOOtl la rot autho-leed to accopt dues or handle other

¿unineda o' tha All blinin tbe provoce of the "reasurer's Jutles and oblliations.

lorever, In view oi the edverse puilicity merloaly, the anouncement ded the

eijoc: or lupiled thai tbe AFiC or nesters of liat croup bellovel the charjes

tba: 110008X»1 lad a part lo oryanieiro the Conference and/0= 19 dis Accat 06

KULANE. TLE DOTICO, aS 1L BEDORrS, alSO LaDIleS tUBL LICCOSY 1 VES alahandlina

Echeverla offered to publion the clari icstlor on the civet 6-

unler: she lit announcenes appeeral horever, LIcky-l alied him roc to do po aid

sald ahe hould theo up tie cotice and ay clariricalion dith lue ARiC Juguice end

Focos Cornis=1o::

On 9 June I'Kw Wille conversin; lth SiD (Aitechsent 1), Lenior anit

Couterence, and roes noi want die sortels to caselosue ter ae on cremy.

contented cha: incocky-d had leit hin har phone mucer and lad assol bla to help

i (prosuzanly refute the charian thet ane was insolied viab the Comercuce).

To LILOK case officer who currently hauólea 1IC0058-1 said on ile coralni of

1i dune 2rà chat LIUDOrYLl iola hus sce led called the Soviet Press Altaché to

deny thai she ted lad autbins to do with ine Conierence "Decaise 1i 10 Whet she.

VOIla nonGAliy do."

She did noi, hoveyer, sentina beloreiani tha, sha tatended

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

COMATHUATTON OF DEBPATCH

FDSLA-29207

appeared in la Vo7, Política and Sicetos. The souleto, uho aro protably mare of

prevous Cuban chartea tie: LICOO-1 18 an ODYOKE eLen:, probably feltethat ea

an Aneriesa closely associated miin the ANAC LICOOKY-l voula be reliezaule to

such an attack.

oinery 1a ordor t0 renes 1i, aul lo provided her vica a letter to ehow io

Mesican bone: nuthorities permiting bes exit.

She la curreitly in PAPRIK bul

lo expected to rebum lo lenico in e leu deje.

As Headquarters 10 avare,

LIOOCTY-1 vill be verminated effecilve

30 June Icús the decision so terminaie has vas neue sons tlee ajo, prior to the

In Monico, altbough mazy Mexicans undoubiedly do int belleie the charges ani

"come to her defeuse."

10. A diopatch stil be preparod and corverded vhen the terination has leea

completeù, and any nev devalommento with repec:, to ler alleger participation 1a

the above Conference vill be Lncluded in thai uispatch.

for

Millan? C. CURTIS

BECRET

---

## Page 8

DISPATCH-

"Chief, WIl Division

INFO

COS,

cos,

CUASENNICATION

SECRET

PROCISSING ACTION

TICPIPIT: Chief,

KUWOLF

NO INDONE REQUIRED

OHLY QUALHND DESH

COS NICE IDEAN

1 acROr

ACTION REQUIRED -REFERENCEN

Reference: 1iMM-10,024 (not sent Santiago)

1.

Attached is a newspaper orticle which apperred in Excelsior of

Station had a considerably more

detriled report from LICCOky-l on the same subject which she

obtained from Mario MONCEFONTE Toledo, who attended as a Nexican

Unfortunatrly befres this report could be lisseminated,

it any race,

elaborating: comments which may cake it more useful:

a, Monteforte, on arrivin' in srica,

already had a plan

in the structure and functions of tie comunidades

and since no one else

he claimed virtually to

have directed the Congress.

b. à provisional socretariat was forned in irica to

orranize the Second Contress

of the Latin American

Cultural Community.

This consisted of: the Chilean

writers luis CYARIUN, essayist and Dean of the Faculty

of Plastic Arls vi lie lational University of Chile;

PARIA, poet and mathematician: Sergio VODANOVIC,

dramatist. The lecond Congress was planned for Mexico

.. To oversee the formation of the latin Imerican Commu-

nity of kriters,

an affiliation comnission

consistint of lin following: Carlos Pellichas formed

Juan NUIFO for Mexico and the Caribbean: fou SALARRUE

and Ernesto CARDENAL ler Central America; Benjamin

CARRION and Jorge IllNed for the Greater Colonbia

CONTINUED

Attachment:

Article,

as stated in para. 1, h/"

Distribution:

í 2- Chlef.

KID. w/205

IS 609:

PROSE REFERENCE TO

walt

I DISPAYCH STRABOR NO GUARGEA

1494- 26012

JASSTCATION

SECRE!

CB reas

• DATE

23 1'3y 1966

MES FEE SLANTER

50-300-S

---

## Page 9

14-0000

CONTINLATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

-2-

HMMA - 29012

d..

zone; Tristan de ATHAYDE and Jorge ANADO for

Brazil; Juan Carlos ONETTI and Jose Luis ROXERO

for the River Plate area; Jose Santos GONZALEZ

Vera and Fernando ALEGRIA for Chile, Peru and

Bolivia.

The affillation commission will form the initial

body of writers of the Community within a six-month

Thereafter, acceptance of new members will

be suspended for sir months, but will then be renewed

work of organizing the

Second Congress of the Latin American Cultural

-2.

3.

4.

Carlos Pellicer and Juan Rulfo are respectively the president

and vice-president of the Asociacion de Escritores Mexicanos,

(Association of Mexicin Writers - AEMAC), see MEXI-6177

of 5 February 1966, an organization dedicated ostensibly to

bettering the welfare of writers through increased fringe

benefits as well as better publication and distribution of

their works.

Its constitution specifically forbade its in-

volvement in political affairs or entanglement with inter-

national organizations.

Mario Monteforte is a member of

this organization.

During recent months, under. the aegis

of Pellicer and Rulfo,

efforts have been underway to revise

this constitution in such a way as to repeal these provisions

without at the same time alienating those of the members who

are opposed to dropping these provisions.

attended the COMES meeting in Genoa last year,

at which the formation of the ClE was discussed.

Despite the vagueness of the wording of articles 3, and

5 (see numbering in attached

news clipping)

disputing.their political.nature.

Monteforte alleged to

LICOOKY that he did not feel the wording of these three

articles is beyond the bounds of reason for a "non-political"

organization.

LICOOKY concedes that their wording is subject

to the broadest interpretation if Monteforte should ever lose

the

"conductor's baton."

Both are guilty of disingenuousness

or at kest naivete, since these

articles

seem to us to be not

only a license, but

almost a battle cry for political militancy

from community members..

During his trip, Vonteforte claims to have met

the Chilean

President and the Foreign Vinister.

The former, with whom

Monteforte discussed the idea of the comunidades, agreed to

write to President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz

stressing to

him the importance of support for the comunidades.

cation is that Mexico's financial and

The impli-

moral support for the

next Cultural Congress will be sought in this way!

SECRET

---

## Page 10

CONTI NUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

-3-

MANA -29012

5.. The organizing commission for the Caribbean section of

the Comunidad Latinoamericana de Escritores (Conmunity of Latin

American Writers - CLE) has begun issuing invitations to both

individuals and organizations to join. The AEMAC has received

such an invitation, but legally still must change its constitu

ton before it can join.

reprint the basic principles of the CCCL to which the invited

Whe ther this was

estrate eles sume nature de entra de at te coeren

the ground, is not known.

Owing to LICOOKY-l's planned departure from the area

the end of June 1966, 1: is not Ilkely Station will have

same insight into the progress of the CLE.

for

Hillard C. CURTIS

SECRET

---

## Page 11

From: Che exico c15jor

Mexico City

Attachment

te HMMA-29012, 23 May 1966

SEGRET

50-6:121/3

DEFERMA

---

## Page 12

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

mutter Metin

.80

Chief, WH Division

XX

INFO

Chies of Station, lexico CityLe

SUBJECT

• LICOOKY Progress Report: 1 October 1965 - 30 April 1966

ACTIOPi PEQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference: HNBA-2735S, 7 October 1965

PROCISSING ACTION

• MAINED FOR IN

NO INDEXING REGIONED

ONLY QUALIFIND DEST

CAN NUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILE

Station regrets the delay in keeping Headquarters informed

of the progress of our association

with LICOOKY-1,

proposed amendment to the LIREAM Project involving LICOOKY was

we informed ker on her return to Mexico that we could

no longer justify the continued association at the present rate

were simply not getting enough out of it,

she could regularize her status here and obtain worsing papers, we

than happy to conclude a new arrangement with her.

She felt there was little chance of this, and we then told her we

would conclude our arrangement with her sometime in the summer.

indicated in paragraph 2 of the attachment, the date has now been

tine all outstanding financial

arrangements with ber will be terninated and she will be given her

Unfortunately,

LICCOKY-1 seems to be incapable of reallzing

side her bread is baitered on, at least here in lexico.

cannot parcel her time out io her various interests, and therefore

The profiles

still hope for one on Francisco

literary figures as amount

lie arc not sanguine.

paper on university reform.

CONTINUEO

taorens Report (in triplicate), /w

Distribution:

3 - Chief,

WHID, si/ait

" fr

it

....

CANS AFFERENCE TO

I9 C

DISPATCH STABLE AN MIMGER

HILA- 28944

CLASSITACATIONE

SECRET

17 Kay

1966

HOSEN E ROMEER

50-6-129/3

---

## Page 13

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

= 2-

HANA- 28944

3.

The

advance made her at Headquarters Is being held.

over her as an inducement to give us the balance of her time

If she

before departure and finish in a blaze of active she does

does this,

we will write off the advance here.

not, $195

of the advance will be counted as her February

salary,

$48 as travel expenses from New York to Washington

and

the remainder will be written off.

Rather than go through the formality of a project

amendment as per HMBW-14517,

Station would preter merely to

consider the project as terminated as of 31 December 1966 and

pick up subsequent costs in LIRANCH. A formal project ter-

mination will 'be submitted in the near future.

for

Willard C. CURTIS

SECRET

---

## Page 14

Hacker to.

+ #: +7-9859444

17 nial :966

LICOOKY Project Progress Report

1 October 1965 - 30 April 1966

1.

Production

#. IICOOKY-I has contiaued to devote the bulk of ber"

time to the Mexican Writers' Association (AEM). She

continues to handle most of Ite administrative work.

She also organizes and does most of the work on the

majority of the projects or activities which the

AEl sponsorg.

b. L-l continued to report on efforts to establigh the

Latin American Writers' Community (CLE), including

the results of the Organizing Congress in Arica, Chile.

She reported on the steps taken by Mario Monteforte

Toledo in beginning preparations for an early 1967

Congress in Mexico and on the AEM's probable role in

helping organize that Congress.

c." I-l supplied information on reactions among the Cen

tral Amertean community in lexico to the Guatemalan

election campaign and results.

d. She maintained contact with and reported on individuale

of interest to the Station, Including Monteforte Toledo,

Carlos Pellicer Camara, Manuel Germin Parra, Francisco

Villagran Kraner, and Raúl Osegueda Pelala.

ah# +010017-2744

50613113

---

## Page 15

•. LICOOKY-2 continued to report travel of Communiate

or leftista from Central America to Eastern Europe.

During this period he reported on eight such travelere.

2. Operatione

a. I-l has been notified that she will be terminated

eifective 30 June. She has been given the following

requirements to be fulfilled before that date.

Provide profiles on the personality and politica of

significant Mexican and Central American intellectuals

with whom she is acquainted.

Obtain information on the newly-formed Latin American

Writers' Community, its probable political development,

and progress toward the holding of its scheduled meet-

1ng in Mexico City in January 1967. .

Obtain a copy of the analysis written by Rall segueda

Pelala of the problems of authonomous universities.

Special tasks such as reporting on the activity of

Stasia Madrigal and on the UNAll student atrike.

In order to accomplish the above tasks in the short

time remaining, 1-l will be forced to curtail her ac-

= 2 =

. i

---

## Page 16

tivitles at the All. There are enough jobs that

need dolnE at All to occupy her full-time and there-

lore the immediate partial withdrawal from ASM work

1o a prerequisite to the accomplishment of these

assignments.

C. Because L-1 has played auch a key role in all AEM

activitles, and therefore in determining the direc

tion and

scope of these

actlvitles, her sudden with-

draval could result in important changes within AE™.

Any major change in direction by AEl would probably

become predictable once the identity of the person

or persons who will nove in to fill the vacancy left

by I-l become known. By having I-l atep aside now,

rather than walting until she is ready to leave Mexico,

she may then be able to provide Station wich an ac

curate account of any change resulting fron her with

drawal.

d. L-2 has not been met regularly since 25 January. On

that date she was given a mailing address thich he uses

to request a meeting only 1f. he bas information to.

report. L-? 18 paid on i plece-rate basis for infor

mation supplied and does not recedve a, regular salary.

∞ 3 =

---

## Page 17

ta-norden

a-p' astrado de soledo

. •

3.

Security

No change.

4. Personnel

Handling of LICOOKY-] was taken over by Gary H. Reymander,

from Howard T. Etsinger, on 12 January 1966.

..3. Plans

a. See paragraph 2a above.

b. It is possible that 1-2 will, in the very near future,

lose access to the travel information which he has

been reporting, i sause he is being Bivon new responsi-

bilitles in the office where he works. I? is intelll

gent, conscientious, and well-notivated. If he does

lose his present access, the Station will consider him

sor other assignments in which he could de userul.

---

## Page 18

ExCELSIOn

85 May 1866

comunidad

latimeamericama

"Carporor en la ronliza vite

le planes erntumma

Apating

por miguel gnardia

P'L MAESTRO Carine To

Пісяг, ВрягА воГ ИПА А.

loe mãs proliferre o na

tables poias mexicanne pop.

ветровапеля un тенойдта!о

do primerisimo arden y

bre toro manerdar prafunis

de las ares innizense pren!a

panicas, de, al mixma liprr.po

un parernain to is mas a-11

no que respimento tirme in

l'emado de concenela an de-

fonta do los ju, ioa, que pro

RasLa contra la ancarcelacide

¿serna de la quiters latina

eroTicans, in el fir do far.

de escriiores:

en sentimento co.ec

avo de la mismautoreiaci

har fur

esfuerzns

con

portores de inleirctuales

astas y cientificos, que inte

Comunida

Cultural

Larmamerirana Spar

Ins

trimantos que

faciliten In In

se eserflores o que

preside

a Armiación di

Escritoppa

de MAxlm, aparta por iax es.

lIpe iniantas mnira la

gUP.

run del lietnam o preside la

Com-aión to

Alrinacion para

la Comunited Latinnamiica-

ra de Begunise, Delocación

para Mexion

Al Caribe.

junto man luan Rullo.

Ppdria decros

ain faltar

a la verdal que cualquiere

que pretenda luchar por una

caura justa

71:01

8118 BrIng 79980

ara'adne por ura porsara de

pratien

internan'o.

de

rito anariar, maecia en 41d

TIt 61

estranjero

C'arios

*F+-

liarante

persona

un hembre te

:,asman juvenil que

ariTa=ard a la larea ton

Podas BUe fuerzas

requale applegia in

por

enjo

• ¡no partito

do calllad to

terramunicarion entre

les es

menrea, y ln producción, ala

di(usdon

. Mralmentel deten

intereres profesiona

Ire ra ins recritores, tratando

da ripar. arlemãs,

rondiel spag

para

independencia poli

Urn

te

nan Aerarrola-

t.o

formanda

no la so o-acinn mexicana y

dei

menarnana

" 1 aunramericana

muno:! Culiura: lalneare

Brars.

que

ta, o

fine to

suspe

Nacio

nal te

Cultura,

do Chie

(ahr arm pa

$a706 r.

THe 22t pen a

1n:

Firectudies do faise

de Amanca latina

LA TARTA de la Comisióa

de Literstura del Primet

TACL

prec.samente

de furtar in Chas la de son.

far ins

bases estatulartas

1159.

188

quenteri

'tomaniar la unklad

18 G9s.4

facar p!

ка Mi: 2*2

monde de

-ie-cainmig entre po

culturales

de

inicaracion socinecrontent

propone

Bus prop.as iricialliae

herere s orcanismas inte

lar airsagar's por la eman.

riparina

la Ame

195 8

SIF2:1AP

pibiarion un aroso plena 8

criture.

6. 37

rs.-

firing -"

74 8:3998282:1

suB

.....Aualmen:e

..= en la lucha la

1 mentia farina

Cop 1: 30-1712 p17

Bad PURS IT

"LA Comisión 10 Literalis

ra llego a ntros aeuer

dos prârticos sobra mercado

común dei labra, circulacion

adreuara de

biesos cultura

lee creacion de una agencia

lteraria, re da cetin ce

Asloria

de

America.

una

particulariamon

nien

de

de

ratedrax

1.8u-

cultura

la región.

nata Care 2ua are tea

sujetar

411S

arisidarts

a lna sigurenipe punis

ma my reapecro a la invila-

harAn de hacor a

Ins perri:nies que consideren

гот

it 144

nerpearing

para ingresar

Comuri

Ee.

los cardiasion debe

ras arepra: Ins punapice de

fa Cominidad & conde con

abra sendirato que centrines.

pa al desarnia cultura! Ae

sar lamin las or=amzario

nes do escripips, de impos

canca racional. identilicadas

PATitO

resfizuraran y artaran den.

is Comunidad indirt.

dudimprip, " cade organiza.

rion par medio de

un dele

rado.

(omo puede apreclarse por

lo ponie-lo hasta

#gui

Las

tinalidades de la ClE no pur

dion Her melDIes ni mas

al.

las y la Comision de At'l.

rson no pudo quedar mejor

integrada.

va que a lo dirho

roilter has.

que afa.

EEn'Ae MemA

dicroneerg'a Juan Poilt. 0118

autonti'd sicila

diciatia ut

NAto: 9e

---

## Page 19

EXT :

4506

DATE: 22 March 1966

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES I

D INDEX

Z/ SECRE

LiNO iNDEX

(FiLE IN CS PILENO.

201-278341

O DESTROY

O RETURY TO BRANCE

0000000000000000000500472200

POUTING

AJ

ro : I2XI

6

7

230000 26

31 2

FROM: DIRECTOR

WHP

INFO: VR. FILE EE RID COPY Ellies cilic z ONCE ON/CA FLAT 2

WHUP

•

MEXI

INFO.

SITE DIS

LICOOK!

90202

ROP NOXI 65T% (IN T7407)*

1. HOS HAS LOCATED WHAT APPEARS BE AREVALO AND OSEGUEDA RETORIC PREPARED BY

IICOOKY-1 (I-1) IN 1961. POUCHINE COPIES INDÍU-14432. FYI "JALET" RESIGIED EARLY 1963.

2. ODENVY REPORES SOKOLOWSKA UNDER SURVEILLATCE MIAMI NOW, AND ACCORDING CURRENT

INFO PROBABLY WILL RETURN NEW YORK FOR NESTING WITH HER CASE OFTICER PRIOR TRAVELING

MEXT AID ONVARD HABANA. ODENVY WILL KOEP KUBARK ADVISED OF HER TRAVEL PLANS.

POSSIBILITY ODACID WILL, LIFT HER PASSPORI.

I SOKOLOWSKA SEES LI IN MEXI, OILE REQUIRDIDIT IS FOR I-I 1O ELICIT AiY ITO

SHE CAN RE SOKOLOWSKA'S ACTIVITY MIAMI, PARTICULARLI RE FULFILLIDNE 07 HER CASE OFFICER'S

INSTRUCTIONS, AND HER PLANS FOR HABANA. LI CASE SOROLONSKA EXTES CUBA VIA SEXI, INI•:

SHOULD ELICIT WIIAT SHE CAN AND OBTAIN TRAVEL PLANS.

LYA L. ODENY MISITE INTERVIEN LICON OT IER INT TRI? DO STATES. A FIRE OR ASES

TRIP PLEASE ARRANGE CONTAGE INSTRUGTIONS WE CASE PASS TO ODENVY.

END OF MOSSACE

WH Cc

*Request Headquarters look again {OT LICUCIN raPOrES On AFEVAIO and

Request requiresents for LICODY agalIsi SOKOLOiSiA.

OSSEUDA.

Pels

MINY V. BROE

WH/C

(it/ arast)

isy

KAUFMANi

RELBABINO ORDI

AUTURNTICATINE

OFFICER

CRICER:

SECRET

. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TrE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO.

---

## Page 20

ORIO :

DiT :

DATE:

В

C. Bustos-Videla

KH/1

4505

15. Mar 66

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

148

CI DESTROY DI RETURN TO BRANCIA

C FLE RIO

XXXXXX

xxXXXXXXXXAXXX<23XXXX08

ROUTING

DINDEX

SECRET

D NO INDEX

SAFILE IN ES FILE NO . 201-278841

81

TO : MEXICO CITY.

FAOM: DIRECTOR

WH8

INTO: VA. FILE BI RID COPY COLORS, CIlL Z, FU FIL INT Z

TO

MEXI

18FG

CITE DIR

REF:

MEXI 6419 (IN 66243)*

88211

1. REVIEW OF LICOOKY, AREVALO AND OSEGUEDA IQS FILES

FAILED TURN UP ANY RICOOKY SUMMARY LATTER TWO GUATS. SHRYOCK

DID NOT RECALL. HMA 18090 OF 3 NOV IS61 FORWARDED MENOS ON

SEVERAL OTHER GUATS SHE MET DURING HER 1961 TRIP.

2.

HQS DID NOT DEBRISE LICOOKY IN DEPTH ON VILLAGRAN, ETC,

BECAUSE

PER DIR 85413 AND CAL HE AND OTHER GUAT LEADERS KOHY

PERSONALLY NO HOS PERSONNEL. ALE INFO SHE OFFERED TO LUND WAS

TURNED OVER TO APPROPRIATE DESKS.

END OF MESSAGE

*Suggest Aqs might look up info supplies by LICOOKY on Arevalc

and Osegueda in view political developments Guatemala.

C/WH/2

Licene fines

шукр

Kaufman

AUTHENPICATINO.

SIFICER

RELCASINO OFFICER

COORDIMAYIOO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PACMINITEO.

---

## Page 21

D vis

D n0 min

CRASSITT TO FILE NO.

1. 08? н. 11.008..

CAneSIFIED MESSAGE O

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

tom

SON/UNTT NOTIFIEO

FROM

пЕРке Сіт/

ACTIN

REPROOUCTION PROHIBITED

55

ORD COPY

ADVANCE COPY

• Doore rosel

S=üM c i 1217552

DIF CITO ALXI 6533

12 MAR 737%6

ALF: WIN 85413 +

AFPRECIATE REF DETAIL. STATION WILL PICK UP LICOOKY ON

RETURN AND TRY GET AS NUCH DETAIL ON IMPORTANT AEMAC MENDERS

AS POSSIBLE AS WELL AS USEGUEDA AND VILLAGRAN. FOR THIS PURPOSE

PLAN EXTEND HER PROJECT NOT LONGER THAN SIX MONTIS AT SLIGHTLY

NIGER MATE THAN PREVIOUSLY. WILL POUCH AMENDMENT TO GRIGINAL

LICOOKY PROJECT,

SINCE DOUBT LIRANCH CAN CARRY.

SECRET

CEN

LIRAVCH

5:33 E5413 LICOOKY

ARMAC OSEGULLA AND VILLAGRAN NO. ENEF

SECOET

А а іʼноʼї

all alis."

clueal in pilor stit

---

## Page 22

MESSAGE FORM

O DETESY I HYURN 8O BRANCH FLIR

TOTAL CODIEN

ORIG: 1. J. Kaufman

UNITE BEL

EXT. 1. 4506

OATE 4 3125 66

O NO INDE

SECRET

OLE CHALENO

S:a 18181 797

TO S. MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

come CHA

Wo va. Tils I AID COPY, 07/07, 201, 30/43, 0/085, E

TO

MEXI

Cine ou

85413

REF: MEXT 6341 (IN 59865)*

1. LUND MET WITH LICOOKY-I FEBRUARY Y IN NEW YORK (NY)

AND FEBRUARY 28TH WHEY SHE VISITED WASHINGTON TO REVIEW THE

1962 SENATE HEARING RECORDS FOR POSSIBLE RELEASE TO USE IN HER

LEGAL PROBLEMS. I-1 PLANS TO RETURN TO MEXI NO SOONER THAN

MARCH Y DEPENDING ON PROGRESS WITH HER LAWYER. L WON ROWALTY

CASE WHICH SHOULD PRODICE ABOUT $700 NOW; OTHER SUIT STILL

UNRESOLVED.

2. NO ATTEMPT WAS MADE TO DEBRIEF LJ IN DEPTH IN THAT

ALMOST EVERY ITEMSHE RAISED WAS REPEAT MATFPIAL ON HER OLD CRONIES

AND CONTACTS• POINTED OR REVEALING QUESTIONING ON ANY ACTIVE

TARUET, I.E. LEVENSON COMPLEX, WAS AVOIDED.

3. FURTHER TO DIR 91088 L-I STATED LEVENSON MET BERDECIO

IN MEXI PRIOR TO EITHER SPRING OR SUKHER 63. IDEN OF GIRL IN

CALIFORNIA UNKNOWN. LEVENSON IVED WITH BERCEDIOS ON ARRIVAL, 63.

L-1 CLASSIFIES REVUELTOS, BERDECIOS, LEVENSON AS NON-CONNIE,

SLIGHTLY LEFT, ALMOST APOLITICAL.

RELEASINO ORPICEE

G OFFICERS

SECRET

THAN THE ISSUING

tent

CONTINUED. •

AUTHENTICATIN®

• OFFICER

---

## Page 23

1d-0d0d

MESSAGE FORM

тота-сорва

_SECRET

0R16 :

UNIT:

EXT :

DATE :

•тО :

-FROM. DIRECTOR

COME :

DINDER

O NOMADEN

D FILE INCEILINO

LI RAWDE

LIANA IU ARATCH LAILAND

XXXXXXXXXXX7XXXXXXXSXSX2490004

ROUTINO

$

co

PAGE THO

INFO: VH. FILE DRID COPY

55115

S. LEVENSON'S MAID INTRODUCED TO REVUELTOS BY THE

FILIOS AT PARTY. IN FILIOS' HOME.. FILIOS' SNUGGLING

ACTIVITIES PREVIOUSLY REPORTED (OTHER CHANNELS) INVOLVED

COSOERCIAL ITESS STCH AS TRANSISTOR RADIO STC. FOR

MONETARY GAIN ONLY AND NOT INVOLVED WITH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES.

I-] RECALLS MEXICAN MILITARY PILOTS SOMEHOW INVOLVED BUT HAS

NOS DETAILS.

5.

IN DISCUSSING LITERARY WORLD ONLY FLEETING REFERENCE

LIREAM EDITOR

MADE TO LIREAM, /

AND TICHBORN WITH NO HINT OF KUBARK

INVOLVEMENT DESPITE ETSINGER'S ADVICE THAT L-1 SAID LIRAN

BLOWN, TO THE CONTPARY, L-1 CLAIMS LIREAM CONCEPT WAS FER IDEA

EDITOR

• AND HAD SPOKEN TO • /

ABOUT IT SOME TIME AGO ONLY TO DISCOVER

SUBSEQUENTLY ON RETURY PROM TRIP OUTSIDE MERF TOR HAI TAKEN

THE IDEA AND WITH TICHBORN PRODUCED LI REAM. L-I CLASSIFIES

MEXICAN LITERARY GROUP WITH VERY FEW EXCEPTIONS AS LOW CALIBER

(PYGNIES) AND HARDLY WORTH BOTHERING ABOUT.

6. L-1 CLAIMS IGNORANCE ON CURRENT EVENTS GUAT AS SHE

COMPLETELY OUT OF TOUCH SINCE LEAVING MEXI

RELEASINO GATICEN

REPROOUETIG

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

T.N a #

ISSUING OFFICE

startatin

CONTINUED. *

AUTORDTIEAIN

tan 00.

---

## Page 24

300X00XX000U00EEXX000 DD60090

TOTALCOPIER:

SECRET

ORIG :

UNIT:

EXT *

DATE :

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR.

CONt:

C NO INDEN

O FILE IS ES FILE NO.

PAGE. THREE

INTO: VA, FILE D RID COPY

TO

INFO

CITE DIn

85-413

7. L-1 ASKED SEVERAL TIES FOR LATEST DEVELOPMENT ARICA,

CHILE CONFERENCE (MEXI 5177) STATING SHE HAD HEARD OR READ

NOTHING CONCERNING IT SINCE LEAKING MEXICO NOR DID ANY OE HER NY

CONTACTS HAVE ANY INFORMATION. SHE DID SAY HOWEVER MARIO

MONTEFCRTE TOLEDO HAD

MOORE DEPARTURE PLANNED RETURS SEXY I SARCE

(DESPITE MEXI 6385 AND HIMA 28303 ADVISING THIS WAS A CHANGE IN

PLANS). REASON BELG THAT MONTEFORTE COULD OBTAIN ONE YEAR ONLY

LEAVE OF ABSENCE FROM UNIVERSITY WHEREAS SOCIOLOGY STUDY SPONSORED

BY UN REQUIRED TWO YEARS.

8. CONCERNING RAUL OSEGUEDA I -1 REPEATED HER CAPABILITY OF

INFLUENCE AND COLLABORATION ON IDEAS WITH HIS AS WITH FRANCISCO

VILIAGRAN KRAMER AND MANUEL GERMAN PARRA (PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

FIDIA 27924). IN ADDITION THOUGH AND OF INTEREST WAS ADVICE THAT

OSEGUEDA HAD PREPARED A PAPER ON UNIVEPSTTY REFCRA FOR A

SOCIOLOGICAL CONFEREYCE AT VERACRUZ IN NOVEMBER 65. IN THIS CONTEXT

SHE POINTED OUT THAT OSEGUEDA HAD BEEN A MILITANT CHAMPION FOR

AUTONONOUS UNIVERSITIES IN HIS EARLY YEARS BUT NOW REALIZING THAT

SUCH AUTONOMY HAS BEEN THE ROOT EVIL OF UNIVERSITY MALADY IS

CURRENTLY PROMOTING NEEDED CORRECTION AND CONTROL. FOR SOME REASON

_COORDINATING OSPICENS

CONTINUED.

SECRET

REPROCUCTION AT OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I PROMINITRO.

"AUTHENTICATING

COME H.

---

## Page 25

MESSAGE FORM

TOTALCOPIES

•SECRET

ORIG

LUIT :

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

COME:

TO

DJINDER

O NOINDEX

O FILE IN CS FILENO

LI DESTROT O RETURN IO BRANCH

2

3

ROUTING

6

PAGE FOUR

15O: VR. FILE I RID COPY

INFO

CITE OUR 2: * 113

PAPER NOT PRESENTED AT CONFERENCE BUT OSEGUEDA LATER MAY HAVE

DISCUSSED THIS WITH MANUEL, CALVILLO AND MAURICO MAGDALENO OF

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION. L-1 CLAIMS SHE CAN OBTAIN THIS PAPER.

STATION MAY WISH FOLLOW UP FOR POSSIBLE USE LICOAX AND OVERALL

UNIVERSITY RETORM PROGRA!, MONTEFORTE AND VILLAGRA:: KRAMER ALSO

TOOK PART VERACRUZ CONFERENCE, PRESENTING PROBLENS OF THE LEFT

AND PROBLEMS OF THE RIGHT RESPECTIVELY.

9, MUCH TIME SPENT ON L-1 LEADS UPON LATEST ESCAPADE

ESTELLE SOKOLONSKA (MEXI 5054) IN THAT S REPORTEDLY GIVEN ASSIGN-

• MENT BY PRENSA LATINA OORRESPONDENT NY TO VISIT MIAMI AND CUBA.

THIS COORDINATED WITH ODENVY AND REACHED CRESCENDO WITH ODENVY

REPS INTERVIEVING S IN HER NY APARTIENT (WHEN L-1 3Y IAPPENSTANCE

ODENY

WAS VISITING AND PRIOR

KNOWLEDGE FULL STORY ON ALLEGED PRENSA

LATINA INVOLVENENT). L-I MAY BE ASKED TO DILAY RETURN MEXICO TO

MONITORS PLANS.

STATION WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.

10.

L-I ALSO SAW ROSE SIMINOW (MEXI 5075) WHO CLAIMED TO BE

PLANNING DEJONSTRATIONS IN NY BY UTILIZING HER SON GEORGE AS A

CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR TO MILITARY DUTY IN VIETNAM. GEORGE WAS

DISCHARGED ABOUT SEPTEMBER 65 AFTER MILITARY DUTY IN PANAMA AND :

MILLABING OFFICER

SECRETA

CONTINUED.

REPROQUETI

AT OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

omisiano.

**as as a

:

come sus.

---

## Page 26

o'e:

WHIT :°

DIT.

TOTAL COPIEBI

SECRET

DIADEX

I NO INDES

O FILE IN CS FILENA.

+CXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXXX04200001

ROUTING

5

6

7

8

To 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON#:

- PAGE FIVE

INFO: VR, FILE LO RID COPY

TO

INFO

ANTICIPATES RECALL AS MEMBER OF RESERVE UNIT. THEY PLAN UTILIZE

SERVICES OF CONSTITUTIONALIST LAWYER BOUDIN. PLAN INCLUDES

NATIONAL, FUND DRIVE, ITEM PASSED ODENVY, MEMOS THIS AND

PRECEDING PARA BEING FOUCHED.

SAID

11. L-1 ADITOED STATION HAD REQUESTED SHE MAKE PROFILES

OF SELECTED FERSONAIITIES (SEXI 6419) BUT THAT SHE HAD NOT HAD

TIME TO COMPLETE, SHE INTENDS DOING THIS IMELIATELY ON RETURN.

L-1 CONTACTS WITH GUAT FXILES BEING REVIEWED WITH GUAT DESK.

WILL ADVISE IF WE DECIDE RECONTACT L-I HERE FUR THIS PURPOSE.

12. WHILE DISCUSSING WITH I-1 'INTELLECTUAL GROUP" MEXI,

(AS TO WHAT MAKES THEM TICK ETC) HER RECOMMENDATION FOR PRACTICAL

BENECD TO EXERT INFLUENCE SOLICITED, SHE SUGGESTED THE USUAL

EXCHANGE PROGRAMS ETC. AT SECOND MEET SHE SOMEWHAT DESPONDENT IN

BEING UNABLE PRODUCE REALISTIC BROAD GUAGE PROGRAM. IN THIS

CONTEXT SHE WAS TOLD WE NOT SATISFIED OUR OVERALL PRESENT APPROACH

AND BELIEVE ALL OF US SPINNING OUR WHEELS NEFDLESSLY. ADVISED WE

NUY HOULD PROBABLY HAVE TO REGROUP AND TOLD HER SHE SHOULD NOT

COUNT ON CONTINUED SUPPORT FROM US: WHEN ASKED HER PLANS IF

TERSINATED SHE STATED SHE PROBABLY WOULD STAY MEXI FOR ANOTHER YEAR

COORDIMATINO OPFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

MEPRODUCTIOY BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITIO.

CONTINUED. ...

AUTHENPICATING

OFFICER

0057 10.

---

## Page 27

Xx2200

0RIG :

UNIT:

EXT

DATE :

TO

TA FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF

TO

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

J FILE IN CSMILENG

SECRET

2

4X425XXXXXXX 52x000

ROUTING

ISI

6

7.

PAGE SIX

INFD: VR , FILE D RID COPY

INFO

CITE DIA

BEFORE RETURNING NY.

.://

SUPPORT WOULD COME FROM FATHER.

IN NY

SHE HAS MANY 'PROJECTS" WHICH NEED TO BE DONE. NO SPECIFICS..

SUGGEST STATION CONSIDER KEEPING HER ON PRESENT ARRANGEMENTS

COUPLE OF MONTHS TO PRODUCE PROFILES AND ANY DEBRIEFING IN

DEPTH RIQUIRED AND THEN TERMINATE. UPON RETURN TO NY SHE MIGHT

BE PICKED UP FOR CONTACT BY. KULAMP OR ODENVY. HAVE INITIATED

DISCUSSIONS WITH KULAMP AND THEY INTERESTED CONTACT ARRANGEHENT

WITH PIECERATE PAYMENT. LUND FOUND L-1 PROBABLY WELL-INTENTIONED

BUT TRAGIC GADFLY HANDY TO HAVE AROUND FOR TIDBITS DESPITE BEING

THOROUGHLY BLOWN BUT NOT WORTH A PROJECT. WILL ADVISE ANY

REQUESTS FOR I-1 SERVICES DURING GUAT POST-ELECTION ACTIVITIES.

13. RECOMMEND STATION EXTEND PRESENY PROJECT FOR TIME

DESIRED AND INCLUDE TERMINATION ARRANGEMENT

PLEASE NOTE LUND

DID NOT TERMINATE BUT ONLY INDICATED THIS AS LIKELY FORTRCONING.

TERMINATION IF SO DECIDED IS NATURALLY STATION PREROGATIVE.

WELCOME. STATION COLLIENT.

END OF MESSAGE

CI/Ops/Hughes (draft)

Jago ONES

sterline

RELEABIRO OFFICHA

REPREDUCTIO

.....

COORDIMATINO OFPICER

SECRET

YOTNIA THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

Kaufman

C/WE/]

AUTHENPICATINN

OFFICER

comy ach,

•SONINTED.

---

## Page 28

Outs Oto

CLASSIDY TO FILE MO. 52•6 182/3 CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

FILE NO.

FILE DIOD BIT. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY DOsIe.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

Mexico CiY

ACTION

204-8.

VRID COPY

THrO

•TOTAL COPIES

12

REPROOLITION PRONIBITEI

153

ADVANCE COPY

Dosura Doorero Orse

S

ECRET 021858Z

DIR. INFO

CITE MEXI 6419

LICOOKY

1• JUST BEFORE HER DEPARTURE FOR PBPRIME LICOOKY TOLD

EASBY AND REYMANDER. SHE HAD PREPARED LONG PROFILES OF JUAN

JOSE AREVALO AND RAUL CSECUEDA FOLLOWING HER FALL 1961 TRIP

TO VENEZUELA. SEARCH OF STATION FILES

SONS NO SUDENCE THESE

PROFILES ALTHOUGH THERE SONE REPORTING ON IRIP II SELF.

2. DID ADDRESSEES RECEIVE PROFILES? SUGGEST HQS QUERY

2iab 33245

54-6-102913

---

## Page 29

+066243881

CLYDE D. SHRYOCK FOR HIS RECOLLECTION. DECRET

3. GIVEN RECENT REPORTING OY PLANS FOR TERROR iSTIS

NID /MIE

ACTIVITY IN GUAT FOLLOWING ELECTONA ANO ASTIGUEDA PARTICIPATION, 54 PH'66

NUBARK SHOULD HAVE MOSI DEFINITIVE INFO AVAILABLE ON IMPORTANT

GUAIS IN EXILE.

4. HQS NOTE PREVIOUS CAELES HAVE DESCRIBED LICOOKY ACCESS

TO OSEGUEDA AVD VILLAGRAN KRAMER WHICH APPARENTLY STILL PERSISTS •

DESPITE GOSSIP RE HER KUBA?X AFFILIATION. DID HQS DEBRIEF HER

IN ANY DETAIL THESE CONTACIS?

SECRET

SFN 6419 EASBY REYMANDER JUAN JOSE AREVALO RAUL OSEGUEDA FALL 1961

VENEZUELA NO EVIDENCE HAS CLYDE D. SHRYOCK GUAI OSEGUEDA HQS OSEGUEDA

VILLAGRA KRAMER RE MAS .

BT

DECRET

---

## Page 30

14-00000

CLASSITY TO FILE HND..

M-REE TO FILE MO.

FILE RIO RET. TO BRANCA D

DESTROY Osie.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/ UNIT MOTIB:EO

FROM

Mexico C:T

ACTIO

WH-8

I RID COPY

FIE, VR, CI, CE/OPS, SR-8

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

Dissura

SECPE T ISIEIAZ

CIR CITE MEXI 6319

KIDESK

REF.

DIP 91228 4

18FEat61: 58426

PAPA TWO GEF, SUGGEST HOS CONSIDER PRETEXT CALL JEWISH MEMORIAL

HOSPITAL FOR DATE LEVENSON VACATION MEXICO.

SECRET

i KiBARN QUERY TASSPORT OFFiCE SHOWS LeVENSuN jereseri

5F!

6319 81288 HOS JEWISH LEVENSON

SECKET

NANN

---

## Page 31

ORIG :

EXT :

DATE :

CAJGPS

6918

16 Fch 66

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COP IR 4

ZGECRET

TO NOR

L FILE IN ES FILE NO. 201 - 772276

STROY I RETURN TO BRANCH O FILE RIE

w0x0000000460480uorwmg0xx0s.son

ROUTING

1.5

.17 FEU 66

° 17392

та %

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR,

SIG CELL

CONFg

cfoes

INFO: VA, FILe SE RID COPY WH8 Cl 3R8

TO

MEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

81088

KUDESK

REF: НММ*-14325*

.........

1. LICOOKY TOLD LUND LEVENSON CONTACT OF ROPERTO BERDECIO

BEFORE 1963 VISIT TO MEXI

BEPRIEN D GIRL FREIND OF BERDECIO

IN CALIFORNIA.

2. KUBARK QUERY PASSPORT OFFICE SHOWS LEVENSON RENEWED

PASSPORT 14 JANUARY 66 FOR VACATION MEXICO. PASSPORT ORIGINALLY

ISSUED FOR DEPARTURE ONE OCTOBER 62 FOR TRAVEL AND POSTGRAD

STUDY EUROPE INCLUDING SPAIN USSR.

END DE MESGAGE

*ODENVY INVESTIGATION AND TRACES ROBERT CHARLES LEVENSON

201-786276.

Pater

William V. Broe

-..

C/WHD

RILLABING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION

angeles

CBFICEAS

SECRET

THAN

James

DC/CI

GROUP I

AUTHRHTICATING

OFFICER

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

come no

---

## Page 32

14-00000

• ne

CLASSITY TO VILE n0..

SILE 20.-

PILE HOO

08T.. TO BRANCH

-=0t

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFTIO

POTAL

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITEO

ADVANCE COPY

UN IT

то ств.

X.RID COPY

VIRILE CAZ, CAlAROR, DO 4, DOlM3, GIlA, SilIS2, DGSZ, COLDO

SECRET 262150Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 6043•

LICOOKY

REF. DIR 74752*

TO MEE

1830

# MISS JUNECOCA

SETURNING

NEUYORK TO FiRE. LIVEL SUIT.

CONCERNINGARCUTLT

26 Jd 66: 42076 420760K,

1• SUBJ RETURNED 22 JAN BY PLANE TO NEW YORK IG CONSULT

LAWYERS BROWN CROSS AND HAMILTON RE 699, 090 DOLLAR LIBEL SUIT

BEING BROUGHT AGAINST HER BY LYLE STUART, PUBLISHER OF ENGLISH

VERSION OF BOOK FOR KER CHARGES THAT HE ALTERED ORIGINAL TEXT•

VISIT REVOLVES AROUND LAWYERS DESIRE OBTAIN RELEASE HER SENATE

TESTIMONY OF MARCH 39: 1962 FOR USE IN DEFENSE. SHE UNWILLING

RELEASE BECAUSE OF DELICACY SOME OF REVELATIONS ABCUT LINLUCK,

AREVALO AND OTHERS. STUART LAWYERS ARE SCHEIMAN, ALBERT AND

MACLEAN.

FEELS CONFIDENT THROUGH PERSONAL VISIT TO LAWYER CAN

PREVENT CASE COMING TO TRIAL.

SHE ALSO REPRESENTING

DESPERA SELF IN COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION

CASE E FEB AGAINST STUART FOR MIS FAILURE PAY FULL ROYALTIES

DUE HER ON ENGLISH EDITION BOOK.

3..

EASBY HAD LONG SESSION 20 JAN ATTEMPTING PERSUADE HER

---

## Page 33

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 42076 PAGE 2

HANDLE BY PHONE.

SHE ALREADY TRIED THIS AND FOUND IT UNSATISFACTORY.

SHE TOLD IN VIEW STILL PENDING APFROVAL HER KUBARX FUTURE, WE COULD

•NOT POSSILY RECOMMEND PAYMENT HER EXPENSES AND URGED HER RETURN

SOONEST TO BEGIN VIGOROUS WORK ON NEW PROJECT DIRECTION. SHE

EXPECTS RETURN 9 OR 18 FEB.

40. NO KNOWLEDGE WHERE STAYING NEW YORK AND TOLD HER ATTEMPT

NE ROUTINE CONTACT. IN EMERCENCY TO CONTACT OVERT OFFICE NEW YORK.

IF HOS SEEKS CONTACT CAN DOUBTLESS MAKE THROUGH LAWYERS.

RE CONTINUATION LICOOKY KUBARK ASSOCIATION URGE SOME XIND

DECISION NEAR FUTURE.

SHE ANTICIPATES NO PROBLEM GETTING WORK

NEW YORK IF WE TERMINATE, BUT DOES NOT WISH BE KEPT HANGING. SHE

IS PROBAEL Y SINGLE MAIN SPARKPLUG AEMAC PROGRAM AND OBVIOUSLY

ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT WORK AND PROSPECTS. BEFORE ANY TERMINATION

PROCED INGS STATION SUGGESTS HAS MAKE CAREFUL DETERMINATION THAT

IT DOES NOT WANT WINDOW INTO AND ACTION CAPABILITY IN INTELLECTUAL

COMMUNITY AND WILL NOT WANT IT TWO OR THREE YEARS HENCE. LICOOKY

HAS WIDEST AND MOST INTIMATE RANGE CONTACTS ANY STATION ASSET THIS •

FIELD WITH POSSIBLE EXCEPTION TICHBORN® STATION AT FAULT IN NOT

EAFLIER RECOGNIZING AND REPORTING HER UTILITY IN CENTRAL AMERICAN

LEFTIST FIELD EXHAUSTED AND FUTURE LAY IN INTELLECTUAL WORLD.

STILL RETAINS INTIMATE CONTACT HOWEVER WITH FRANCISCO VILLAGRAN

KRAMER AND RAUL OSEGUEDA.

SECRET

CSN 6043 74752 22 JAN NEW YORK BROWN CROSS HAMILION RE S00, 000

DOLLAR LYLE STUART ENGLISH 39 1 9G2 LINLUCK AREVALO STUART

SCHEIMAN ALBERT MACLEAN 8 FEBSTUART EASBY 20 KUBARK NOT POSSIBLY

SECRET

---

## Page 34

IN 42076

PArE 3

9 18 FEB NO KNOWLEDGE NEW YORK NO ROUTINE NEW YORK HOS RE LICOOKY

KUBARK NO PROBLEM NOT WISH AEMAC MAS NOT WANT NOT WANT LICOONY

TICHBORN NOT EARLIER CENTRAL AMERICAN FRANCISCO VILLAGRAN KRAMER

RA UE OSE GUEDA

••."I

BT

""...

3009*7

---

## Page 35

se da tanti tentat tua 'sinisto le di aita listino di aie nali i trassi in dari il pe ili tinaicio Ei into ai l voi (no stest esercisi ruti

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.-

#-DEN TO FILE NO.

MILE PID MET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY O 116.

THọn

MEXICO CITt

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

MOVANCE COPY

23 RID COPY

-SECRET 5620512

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXY GRAT

LIC OOK Y

REF MEXI S2A3TIN 42076)*

26Jm666 42101

JI'ST LEARNED FROM REVANDER LICOOVY STAYING HOTEL SUTTON

PLAZA, 1I6 EAST 5R ST. ALTERNATIVE MEANS CONTACT IS THROUGH HER

COCTOR, I. SVADDER, PARPIZON OLAZA, PHONE CI-T-TRAP.

S E C PIOT

.CFN 6947 21243 REY'ANDER LICOOKY HOTEL SUTTON FIKA, 1IS EAST

58ST I SNADPER BARBIZON PLAZA CI-7-7999

RT

2 429 ! ..

'.•"

DALES DECISION EN CCATONDATION ROCAIS

ASISTANIC

MOLICAIRY.

---

## Page 36

14-00000

imid..k.

DAi-

CLASBIFY TO FILE 40.

#-HEF TO FILE MO.

PILE RIO DET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY

D $16.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

23/30

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFTEO

TOTAL COPIES

ACTION

MExicocit

ADVANCE COPY

WH8

O RID COPY

Diaouro Dooreo ruses

FILE, VR, CAZ, CA|pRop, D041 DoH3, ellc2.

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

JURIT

To bat

SECRET 333130Z

_INFO DIR CITE MEXI 5750

REF HMMA 27921

1. LIFEAT 27 DEC CONY BETWEEN JUDITH FERRETO AND CARLOS

PELLICER REPORTS LOUISA GONZALEZ HAS ARRANGED PUBLICATION

LETTER DISCUSSED REF IN SUOS MAGAZINE POLITICA. LETTER ON

PRESSES WHEN LOUISA LEFT SJOS. FERRETO SAID WOULD TRY MAKE

COPY THIS PURLICATION AVAILABLE PELLICER.

2. FERRETO TALKED WITH LOUISA BEFORE LOUISA LEFT FOR

HAVANA 27 DEC.

SECRET

CFN 5750 HMMA

27921 LIFEAT 27 JUDITH FERRETO CARLOS PELLICER

LOUISA GONZALEZ 27

₽T

iSE: 23526

---

## Page 37

DISPATCH

Cria, Wassero domiaproze Divisive

•PROCESSING ACTOM

SECRET

NO LADERE PES

0E9 SAS20 49

CAN NOCI INODINO

FROM

Crie di Starioa, Moxico City

IN MENO NUNCES

ACTIONI E'GT yuur infornation

1. Altached for she inforr.alauu of addressess are cojido ul

Do ne, ornaiu. los tho fileo darsi 4 Nove. .,ber 1955

Lo LIFEAl a judita forseto, iniod 1 Nove Da: 1955

Co LIFEAT On Judita Ferrato, datod

9 rov= bor 1969

- da Moriorandi tro: ODENVi, daierit ivove ber 1'965

•s lallirtos manureo, carci is boce ..jer isos

2. Tho suovo arach-ions costain d'o: auca abou: she arroat and

cosention of Carios Pallico necruss di she

Fireman al le A sican E: ua00y il resco Cay.

Aracher: È reDIra aLorverzation wilk Carlos

Pallicor ard Jurisi Farroto in maus Ferrelo adis inai i Pellicor cac :000r0

extra opido al sia laster one mili eouo ibo.. 1o à no, at irierd in siae Jodo tao

will pusina do leller di te numopaper di ine "Party." The frieidto whom

FerIOlO raierIed la MobaalE Lulda Matà le Gaereice, a Miga randini erbos

ot l'af CosLa Mican Co

1' ur1o: Parti tho 195 rellaig ilexico in lato Ocrabor

M.a carly Novo De: 1965.

10s/Wallaid C. CURTIS

As statad a10v9

Dist-Lantion:

CHELSA IN TERRACI TE

I lafia

DESSE TRY STASTI NE AER

HANG. 27921

ASS d'ALEA

22 Dece mio: 1963

---

## Page 38

Cair :.

EXT :

SATE :

C. Bustos-Videla

WH/1

4506

20 Dec

65

MESSAGE FOR::

TCTAL COPIES:

066

PASSCREE

201-73÷323

PLE FILE IN CS FILE NO. ;

50-6-129/3

TO

:_ MEXICO

TIVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON# :

WH 8

TO

MEXI

REF

9

OOT ITURN TO-BRANCH

D FILE NID

XxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

ROUTING

5

20 CEC 55 28

57 E

INFO

MEXI 5618 (IN 16407) *

HQS CONCURS TERMINATION LICOOKY-2.

END OF MESSAGE

CITE DIR

666351P

•ICROFILMED

whis u :968

DOC MICRO. SER

#In view of minina: production of LICCOKY-2 would it work

a hardship on

the

Central American program to drop him?

(Re provides travel info on Costa Fican Commies.

NH/2

CI/ICG/IV

LICECHYSI

Jacob I. Esterline

ACHD

C9=09::A7:90 9:816E85

SEC.Er

RELEASING OFFICER

+3-801-734573

REPREDUCTIO BY OTHER THAN THE ENGINE

OFFICE iS PROHIBITED.

Kaufman

OFFICER

---

## Page 39

1.5e: Dres 040-

CLASTIFY TO-FILE NO..

I-MER TO FILE 40.

PILE DID O

RET. TO BRANCH D

FROM

LLASSIFIED MESSAGE

23/30 SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

COFEs

DROUP

REPROCUCTIO PROHIBITED

MEXICO Cit

WH8

ID JANCE COPY

GRID COPY

LIssuEO

INFO

FILE, VR, CIlICZ, LUHICS, Siops, Gilea, Cilez, Dou, DolH3,

190€7 65 75330

SECRET 1323202

DIF CITE MEXI 5075

LI5Y

REF 511 58540(1541)

RECEIPT OF LICOOKY- I WRITTEN REPORT REQUIRES SOME

COFRECTIONS IN REF:

A, IGOR INTRODUCED MER TO "YARRY" (BUT NOT 3Y FULL NAME,

WHICH SHE NEVER KNEW:, DESCRIBIUG MIM AS ABSOLUTELY TRUSTWORTHY.

I'LLITE 1983, HORRY RECONTACIED HER THRU JORGE LOSADA WHOM SHE HAD

WE CHICE S9E AND HIS TIME HARRY RECRUTIED HER, COVER WIS

RESEARCH FOR FOREIGN INVESTORS.

3. L-1 DID NOI TELL IGOR SHE RECRUITED AND WORKING

FOP YUSARR IN MEXI.

OCUTES YSMXOHX09,50÷545 &

MMER AND

THEREFORE STILL

WOFKING IN NEXT

FEEL HENSCH FOR ATTEMPTED

KUBARK CONIACT WAS TO PASS

0:.

'? "E CARLOS ENRIQUE SOLANCO,

GUAT EXILE, O'STIME MEXT RESIDEN?

ON MEDICA

SCHOLARSHIP.

L-: LEARNED

• 14.

---

## Page 40

1N75330 FAGE 212

FROU CHOLANCHA THAT LE SORFSTED ABOUT MAY 65 FOR PAGOING -YOINCUES

TO SAILORS AND MARITIME WORKERS FOR PLACING ABROAD PRUMEN VESSELS

AND SHORTLY TO BE SHOT. SINCE SHE HAD GIVEN CASE OFFICER FAVORABLE

INFO ON HIM ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO, SHE FELT HE MIGHT HAVE BEEN JAILED

FOR COOPERATION WITH KUSARK AND KUBARK MIGHT NO: KNOW IT:

¡FY!: MEXI CAN FIND NOTHING IN FILES RELAYING SUCH INFO TO MGS,

POLANCO OF INIERESI, MEXI CAN CABLE GIST OF ODDS AND

ENDS

Y' "REVIOUSLY FORWARDED.?

MORE ASOLT STASHA, SHE HAD WORKED IN PRENSA LATINA FITH

::. GODEA, EX-NIFE CHE GUEVARA. IN MID SEPT WAS WRITING ARTICLES

EUTEN TORN DAILY WORKER

UNDER ALIAS, PERSON WHOM L- VISITING

"'" STASIA CALLED WAS ROSE SIMINOW, AMERICAN

COMMUNIST: STASHA

- SIMINOW TO RECONVEND HER FOR CLASSES IN MARXISM. L- I

IC.:INCED STASHA FULLY COMMIITED TO COMMUNISM. THEREFORE MEXI

RARETS MISTAKEN IMPLICATION PARA A REF,

CE!!. AGE , DECE TERRY: NOT BY 1968 THRU JORGE LOSADA

"TOR KUBARK PRUMEN RE CARLOS ENRIQUE POLANCE

E:..

SOKO_JASKA 65 PBRUMSY KUBARK NOT KNOW FYI NGS

to us a ..

---

## Page 41

115330 FAtE 313

"POLANCO. NOT PREVIOUSLY STASHA PRENSA LATINA HILDA GADEA CHE

GUEVAKA MID NEW YORK DAILY WORKER L-! STASHA ROSE SIMINOW AMERICAN

STASHA SIMINOW MARXISM L-I STASHA 4 .

9T

---

## Page 42

#- $9

3013

INDEN, D YES

CLASSIDY TO DILE NO.

К-ПЕР ТО

ERSTROY

0 1:6

49

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 30

SECRET

#001

ROUTING

ACTION

INFo

lit 3

E RID COPY

SERVICE

_MEXI 5075

19 OCTOBER 65

STA & NR

DATE

75330 A

IN NR

PLEASE CORRECT THE GARBLED PORTION(S) OF THIS MESSAGE TO

READ AS FOLLOWS:

MEXI 5875 PARA 18 PORTION READS: "HE EITHER KNEW OR ASSUMED SHE

HAD BEEN RECRUITED IN POPUMEN AND THAT SHE"

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO

Copy to.

---

## Page 43

+r5a0=1

IP

1O

WISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

CLISSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

XX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA

CAN I'JOGE INDEXINO

FROM

Chlet of station, Mexico cile a

MICROFILM

G LICOUKY Project Progress Report: 1 July - 30 September 1965

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: None; PYli

Reference

: HMNA-26,757, 29 July 1965

:

Attached herewith is the LICOOKY Project Pregress Report

for the period l Julj - 30 September 1965.

jovillard s. cunTys

Attachment:

LICOONY Progress Keport, in triplicate, h/w

Diatribution:

3 - Chief, WID, w/att h/w

57-541-6-4913

Gus A caro

CS COPY

DISPATCH SIMONY AND MUMGEE

HMMA -27, 358

CLASHOXCAIIN

SECKET

Lac cist

617473

3253-63-8349

DATE

• Octoher 1965

DOCUS FILE MARBLE

50-6-99/3

---

## Page 44

4P

LICOOKY Project Progress Report

1 July 1965 - 30 Septemier 1965

""

1997-27358

70c+6s

1.

Production

a. LICOOKY-] has been the source of 1 HMM.

b. LICOOKY-2 has been the source of 3 lUMs.

2. Operations

8. The CO has not had any contact with LICOOKY-1 since

she departed Mexico 5 September 1965 for medical

treatment in PBPRIME. As Of 4 Getober 1965 LICO0KY-1

hai not contacted the CO. There is no evidence of

her return to her apartment.

b. During the months of July and August LICOOKY-1 has

devoted all of her time to the l'exican Uriters As-

sociation (AEM - Asociación de Escritores de México)

monitoring plans of Carlos follicer Cámara, Juan

Rulfo and Arnoldo Orfila Reynal to use the AEM to

launch the Community of Latin American Writers (CLE

- Comunidad Latinoamericana de Escritores) as an

affiliate of the European Community of vriters (CONES

- Conunité Europen degli Scrittorl).

During this period LICOOKY-I was in touch with Pellicer

three or four times a week.

I9e-612913

He # +0+006 21358

SEC':

IS CuT"

::E..65

0: 4101/3

---

## Page 45

:

do

LICOOKY-1 attended aD AEl Board 51 Directors Meet-

1og on 25 August 1965 called by Pellicer. At this

metire Peliicer explained bow he had been elected

President of the CLE for Latin America and detalied

his pians for hosting the CLE Conference In Hexico

City in early 1966.

e. LICOOKY-I had tipped off some of hor rightist. friends

on the AlM Board of Directors who immediately pro-

tested. . Instead of anything being arranged a con-

mitice of two was appointed to investigate and re

port back to the Board of Directors at a meeting to

be held during the middle of October. This committee

Ferie.

Nase?

1s composed of (ion) Ségura Millán and tem) Martinez

Sotomayor, friends of LICOOKY-1 who have assured

LICOOKY-I they will return a negative report oppostog

Pellicer's plan to use the AEM as host for the 1960

meeting of the CLE in Merico.

I. Pellicer had asked the Ministry of Education to fi-

nance this 1966 meeting in the name of the AEM prior

co the 25 August 1965 meeting of the AEN's Board of

Directors. Il In the Outober meeting the Bard of

- 2-

SECRET

---

## Page 46

Directors refuses to host the meeting it will put

Pellicer in an embarrassing position vis a vis the

Ministry of Education.

B. LICOOKY-I assured her CO she would return in plenty

of time to

attend the October Board Meeting and to

arrange support for segura and Martinez at this

neting.

6. During the reporting period LICOOKY-1 has maintainca

contact with Marlo Montejorte Toledo, Francisco

Villagran Kramer, Margarita Paz Paredes, Juan Rulfo,

Miguel Guardia Ríos, Leopoldo Zea, Luis Villoro,

Alejandro Finisterre, Benjamin Carrión, Raúl Osegueda

Pelala, Bartoloné Costa-Amic and Autonio Montes de

Oca.

1. LICOOKY-2 continues to report on travel of Communists

or leftists fron Central America to the Communist

bloc. During the period covered by this report he

has reported on 34 such travelers.

3. Security

a. The CO at this time can only speculate ca LICOOKY-l's

reason for contacting Igor Gordevitch of Visiós mag-

-3 -

SEURET

---

## Page 47

azine. LICOOKY-l had been told prior to her de-

parture that the CO did not know if Headquarters

would want to contact her in New York. If she

wasn't contacted it would mean that Headquarters

had no desire or need for seeing her. An explanation

will be asked for ten she returns.

D. LICOOKY-2 has not presented any security problems.

4. Personnel

No change.

5. Problems

No change.

6. Effectiveness

No change.

T. Plans

No change.

- 1-

SECRET

---

## Page 48

¿/Bustos-Videla

ORIG :

WH/1

UNIT:: 4506

EXT : 23 Sept 65

DATE :

TO : NEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH8

MESSAGE FORM

TOTALCOPIES:

D INDEX

FS/53 E CRET

D] NO INDEN

XS FILE IN CSFLENO. 201 - 278841

33

CiD JE O RETUIN TO BRANCH DO PIE bRO.

коме ее на

-11

248EP65 18 465

NO: VA. Pie BE RID COPY SO 4, DOlM3, C/ONG, WH/C8

TO

MEXI

CITE DIR

1.

HDOS RECEIVED PHONE REPORT FROM MYNO 23 SEPT THAT 5 3 3 5

GORDEViTCAS

LICOOKY-1 HAD CONTACTED KUJUMP THROUGH IGOR FORGET OF

VISION MAGAZINE. LICOOKY HAD TOLD ELLES

2iZE SIS HAD BEEN

RECRUITED FOR KUBARK BY MR. HERMSDORE IN CUBA, HAS NOW MEXI,

AND WANTED A KUSARS CONTACT IN NEW YORK.

SHE ONLY PLANNED

BE THERE A COUPLE OF DAYS PRIOR RETURNING MEXI AND GAVE NO

INDICATION WHY SHE WISHED CONTACT.

Cordoviren

2. ALTHOUGH EARNSCEN IS CLEARED KUWOLF CONTACT,

PREFER NOT USE HIM AS INTERMEDIARY TO LICOOKY. IN ViEW HER

PLAN RETURN MEXI SHORTLY HOQS MAKING NO CONTACT. REÇUEST

STATION DEBRIEF LICOOKY ON HER ACTIONS, PARTICULARLY WHY SHE

REVEALED HER KUBARK RELATIONSHIP.

END OF MESSAGE

WiSest Sincer

williat

fireles

cher, Mi b

Baoe

RELEASINS OFFICER

COORDIMATING OFFICCA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAM THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIAITED.

# +608 469-6888-25

D091r1

8, 274 P.u8

---

## Page 49

14-00000

CESSAGE FOR!!

+0:H: 558:55:246

GRiG :

UNIT :

EXT :.

DATE:

C. Bustos-videla

Iih/1

DINSEX

4506

ENDINCEX

8 SeT 65

SE FILE IN CS FILE NO. 50-6-=30/3

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

1=0: VR. F::

TO

xxxxx age xxxx-

151

: 5

Forcit

END CONDO SHE CILOR, CAZCA04

CITE OIR

NEXI

INFO

REF: :3XI 4628 (1X 44044)*

HORS ADOES ACT WISH TATERUTE: TICOONY-I DURING WE!

TRIP TO NEW YORK.

EXD OF MESSAGE

Asked wesher llgs rishon en inla with nicooki-i regarding

COMES Plaus.

Kitenice

CA/B5/Fallor (paore)

iroc

Cisi

CIGAR AS GEFIECOS

C/1:/1

==

---

## Page 50

BESSiCk FORt

DATIN TO LANCE EFILES

CRiS :

UNIT:

EXT

DATE :

TO :

FROM: DIR:

CC..F:

18/1

4506

Sa"

65

"'EXICO CITY

LE FILE I CS FILE NO. 52-0-123/3

TO

iNFO: VR

61/162

"EXI

INFO

CITE DIR

RIF: "EXI 4025 (14 44044)*

HOCS ODOES NOT WISH INTERVIEY LICOOK!- DURING HER

TRIP TO NEW YORK.

END OF MESSAGE

asked nother iles wishod to talk with LIccoy-l regarding

COMES plans.

Ci/85/Fallc: (phore)

:3/1

HELLAS+÷ CE55E9

PERISSUCTION

atti is

0-wm-=-

---

## Page 51

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

PROSESSINC ASTON

MARAID FOR INCEXING

Chief of Station, Mexteo City

INFa

11O CADDING REQUIRIO

¡ ONLY QUALIFILE DESA

CAN ALOGE IR DENINE

MICROFILNED

#Chief, WH Division

SEP 3

1965

MICHOFILM

SALTCOONY-1 Participation in bexican friterA Assochatior

ACTIOM RIQUINLO REFERDACES

Reference:

HMMA 26,621, 15 July 1965

Te 0 : a store a describes 19

LICOOKY-I's efforts as described in reference have

substantial merit and some potential particularly if the Station can

find a way to tie them in with the LIREAM effort in the intcllectual

LICOOKY-? certainly is to be commended for her effort in

getting writers both

of the right and left such as Carlos PELLICER

Camara to join the AFl.

From a KUBARK standpoint the most intcresting

contact is the one with PELLICEP becauge he has been the reported force

behind the CONES/CLE effort in lexico.

ilthough her assigned tasks as reported in para 7 a,

of the LILINK memo

do not entail making her witting of other Station

assets engaged in

MISPANN Ops anong the intellectuals, an amendment

• to her OA

is requiree,

and one has been requested.

her eftorts

progress to the point

where she might be able to

influence leftist

in their efforts to establish the CLE in Mexico (para 7 c o1

LILINK memo) Headquarters should be forwarded your

ideas on why and how

LICOOKY-1 should be used as an active MHSPAWN agent, and another

ammendment will be required for this role.

ANDRIETTE will discuss this operation with the Station during

4.

his

TDY.

In view if the restricted OA which contines KUBARK'S

association with LICOOKY-1,

it is Important that leadyuurters renain

awnre of any unusual activity in her personal life which might affect

her stcurity or the granting of amendments to ber OA for individual

operations.

Therefore, we would appreciate your keping us informed

on a more timely basis of any undertakings such as the recruitments

for menbership

in the AEM described in reference.

Distribution:

Orig

& 1 - COS, Mexico City

Ernest A. LUSBY

ilecolig

(Be dis)

8. 1-124/3

CROSS FIREFERCE TO

MISPATCH E-SOFIA AND BUMPCH

IMM# 13902

,...

B- 2012758111

SECRE

T

C-TE

18 August 1965

HOSF: I NUMPER

•50-6-124/3

201-2788.11

RI

Chrono

CI/OA

Bustos-Yidela: nca

0P01 9G

1507

t: t95riut

CI/OA

AUG 1365

Indiant Sean

till tsi

---

## Page 52

SECRET

(WH:N FILED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect

Deiach back flap

i to 0, her, une i recorde

siamficant action taken or commenis requir-

ing preservation

FROM:

RIDiAN

sidd

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il file no and title shown are not proper,

insert proper hle no below and forward

document to RID/AN

PHOFER FILE NO

TO ALL ADORESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPHIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOK

NO

DATE

OFFICER:

NITIALS

RECE VED

MANGES

Gapy Detached

Wultier

Hallüiell

'Le must tot

• ;

911/113

10

• 1

$ 2.

wH/i/sp

16

FALLEN

bout

intead.

sing

16

FILE TITLE

RID. Fl

REQUESI

aUSPRACT

1 REDE 8

TELE NUUBER IPRIMARY CODE

50-6-129/30000

---

## Page 53

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

DISPATCH

SECRET

MAKED FOR INDEXING

TO

XXX

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

Chief, Wl Division

INFC.

1.

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA

CAN JUDGE INDÉRINO

Wn Chet of Station, Maxico CHY.

I MICROFILA

•8 coY Project Progress Report for the Period 1 Aprti - 30 June 1965

Action Required: None

References

Attached is the LICOOKY Project Progress Report for the period

1 Apsll - 30 June 1965.

A Zacky

WillaraC. curTIs

.

Attachment:

Progress Report (Orig & 2), h/w

Distribution:

3 - Chier, WiD, #/att

2 - Files

OSS REFERENCE

-S COPY

DISPATCH SYAJOI ANO MUMBER

INMA-26, 757

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50-6 129/3

DATE

29 July 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-129/3

---

## Page 54

SECRET

LICOOKY Project Progress Report

1 April - 30 June 1965

1.

AMMA 26757

Production

29Jub.65

a. Beginning in early April, LICOOKY-1 was instructed to devote as much

time as necessary to her work in the Mexican Writers Association (AEM -

Asociación de Escritores de Mexico), LICOOKY-1 has been almost totally

responsible for

the ASM's development and present organization and is

a member of its

Loard of Directors, which enables her to attend all

Joard meetings. This assignment was the result of KUBARk's interest in

the activities of the European Community of Hriters (COMES - Comunite

Europea degli Scrittori) and

its efforts to estaolish a Latin irerican

branck.

to As operational dispaich covering LICUOKY-l's activities in the AEM

in detail was prepared and forwarded. Tro iMMs were prepared covering

the organization of the AEN and Juan Rulfo's planning in conjunction

with Carlos Pellicer Cémara (not to be confused with Carlos Menuel

Pellecer), Migual Angel Asturias, Arnoido Orfila Reymai, and Eenjamin

Carridr for the Congress of the Community of Latin Auerican Writers'

(CLE - Conunidad Latiroacericana de Escritoresi to be held in Mexico

& City in 1966.

c. LICOOKY-1 sees Juan Rulfo regularly and reets once a week with

Pellicer, which enables her te keep current on their plans and activities.

do LICOUKí-1 provided information on ESilmi-l prior to his recruitmert

which supperented that given by LINLUCk. (LICUOSY-1 recommended against

the direct recruitment of SSLIMi-l for reusons which later proved to

be true.)

e.

has

Licocky-l provided a detailed profile on lanuel German Parra and

chanral to him for future contacts and

assessien:.

an open

t. L:COukY-1 bas provided information on the

autivities of Francisco

Villagran Kracer, who is

now livirg

in Mexico. He and his wife and

LICOOK1-1 exchange visits at each others spa: trents

ard they atteaded

#: +81888867-06757

SECRET

IS COPY

58-8-19465

---

## Page 55

ta-inden

***'

one dinner party given by LICOOKY-l which was also attended by Victor

-Alba, Djuka Julius, Mario sonteforte Toledo, and Dr. Frank Tannenbau.

& LICOOKY-1 continues suppljing operational information on Margarita

Paz Paredes, Djuka Julius, and other persons of interest to the Station.

k. The Station KUCAGE officers are now considering a plan suggested

by LICOOKY-1 which would help sabotage any effort to take the AlM into

the CLE.

¿. LICCOKY-2 continues to report on the travel of Comunists or leftists

Iron Centrai America to the Communist bioc. During the perioù covered by

thie repert, he reported on 1l individuals, all of whom traveled to the

Soviet Union or Sestern Europe.

2. Operations

a. LICOOKY-1 will continua to cover the activities of those planning

for the CLS Congress, the developments within the hai, and will maintain

her contacts with Central American Communists and exiles in Mexico City.

This latter task has not been

as successful as was originally planned

because her access has been limited for the reasors outlined in Para-

graph 5 of Reference A.

b. LICOOKY-1 has been given the following requirements in regard to

the ABM:

(1) To prepare complete assessments on all the influential AsM leaders.

(2)

To provide a detailed account of LICUuKY-l's aufluence (leverage)

on them

as a basis for;

(5) Using the ASM, when the time comes, to keep Rulfo ei al from

forming an affiliate in Mexico, preparatory to the CLE Congress.

(4) To continue developing a close frierdship with Rulfo and Pollicer.

(5) Io continue her activities in the ASM in a manner to enhance her

stature and increase the leaders' confidence in her as one who

gets things dos..

c. LiCoÜKi-2 is not used la any capacity other than reporting travel

inforcation

to

which he has natural secess.

Siii

208

---

## Page 56

3.

Security

No Change

4.

Personnel

No Change

5.

Problens

No Change.

6. Effectiveness

No Change

7. Plans

•a. As will be noted from paragraphs 1 and 2 above, ¿¡COOKY-l's artivities

have bees partially redirected from wholly KUFIRE to ¡CAGE activities.

b. TIere are no plans to enarge LICOOKY-2's present task.

SECREI

---

## Page 57

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IND

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSIRUCTIONS

# PE

#-8$

PRIOR TO FILING

Lad to on back Deach 5991:85

award to RID:

Leszoy. tront pover sidil, dales il recurds

simificant acton taken or:com

Tents requi

= preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il tile no. and title shown are not proper, in

sert proper file no. below and forward doc

umeat to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL AÔDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTE

TO

wailine

DATE

RECEIVED I PERMAREED

23/n6:

OFFiCER'S

writ

tickle shame

Copy Detached

find repase cap?

Machise

€.

mad; Bear

16 AỤU 1565

iTisos

Atresae-13902171869

SUSPENSE. =3

11.

13.

1=.

15.

18:

i7.

FILE TITLE

AESTHET

Fio=

• =7

120 - 4=129/3

---

## Page 58

Surina

DISPATCH!

Chief, VET

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TÒ

INFO.

FIDA

PROCESSING ACTION

ALORKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONE QUALIFIED DESK

CAN PUDGE INDEXING

" MICROFILAL

Miet of sis-ion, 'arles fit!

LICKY-I's Participation in the Organization and

A Direciton of the lexicar Walters' association

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCE!

Autacked is a LILINK Unit lesorenous conceming LICOCKY-l's

participaiion in the organization and direction of the lexican liniters'

Association (A311).

The mero outlires ine Station's flens for using

LICOOKY-1 and the AEl! for liSPAri purposes.

This citore will de closely cooriinaced wiir the LIREM Projcct

through which perrazal (cut indeperdent) accions micht ce taken vis-e-vl.

the AID! (RAMSOLa is a menDer) and selecied lexican intellectuals to

Fessquerters corments

are

solicites.

Il 1ù should be deeme

ecessar, to arenà LICO0iS-l's DA to permit onis ectiviti, readquarter

is requeste:

co iritiate this action.

Villar C. CRits

Attecisent:

lerorein, as steied, a/s

Distibution:

3 - Chies, MD v/str

CROSS RIFERENCE TO

GS COPY

SPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMISE

Exi-2a,121

CLASSIFICATION

SECHE:

CATE

12 - 6-129/3

16 3:ly 1005

MOGS FILE NUMSEN

50=:-12913

---

## Page 59

1. The first steps to organize the l'exican Writers' Associa-

tion (AEM - Asociación de Escritores de México) were taker

in February of 1364 after Bartolome Costa-Amic and the Zaplana

Bookstores published

a proposal in the metropolitan newspapers;

offering to estabilsh a new series of library prizes and urging

the Mexican

writers

to join an association that could provide

material benefits for its members. The first meeting of the

„AEl was helu on l1 August 1961. For some time the AEl remained

as insignificant as other similar organizations which had been

organized from time to time,

such as the society of literary Au-

thors and The Society of Friends of Mexican Books which never

achieved any effectiveness or respectability. Mexico's established

and well known writers have always shunned these organizations.

2. LICOOKY-1 became interested in the AEll through her friendship

with Costa-Amic and saw the possibility of building the AEl into

an organization which would include the middle of the road and

right wing authors who had been systematically boycotted since

the Lazaro Cárdenas' regime when Narciso Cassols, & member of the

Communist Party, was Minister of Education.

3. LICOOKY-I began a one man campaign of recruiting relatively

well known right wing writers who could not be considered mediocre

or nonentities. As LICOOKY-l's campain began to succeed it be-

came easier to recruit the nore important roiters of Mexico cover

Ing the whole political spectrum. In October of 1964, LICOOKY-1

SECRET

50-6-129/3

---

## Page 60

persuaded Carlos Pellicer Cánara, well known lexican poet, to

Join the AEM. It then became easier to get other well known

writers to join. In all LICOOKY-l recruited about 80 of the well

known Mexican

writers to come into the AEl. At this time Licooky-

I knew nothing of the European Community of Friters (COMES -

Conunité Europea degli Scrittori) or plans to form a Community

of Latin American Writers (CLE - Comunidad Latinoamericana de

Escritores).

4. LICOOKY-l has been appointed to the Board of Directors of

the AEl which permits LICOOKY-l to attend all Board Meetings and

she

is

relied upon to do all details of

organization and planning

the AEM projects to assist the Mexican writer which is the ultimaie

objective of the AE!!.

5. In this sork LICOOKY-i has developed

friendships with the

leaders of the AEM Including fellicer and Juan Kulfo, both of

whom were Mexican delegates to the COlES Conference held in

Geneva, Switzerland during the winter of 1905. bellicer has in-

vated LICOckti to bla nome ard ronters witn her on All probiers,

usually once a week. Sne has free entrarce to Rulfo's office at the

Instituto Indirenista and he has visited LICCOXY-l's apartment.

6. The station nopes that through LIcOckt-l the dill can be

lised

to defeat any attempts by COWls through its affiliate CLE to form

""."

---

## Page 61

gione?

a Unity of liriters (UE - Unidad de Escritores) in Merico as

well' as sabotage the CLE Congress

to be held in Mexico in 1966.

%. To this ond, one of LICOOKY-l's principal objectives is to

solidity her ucceptance in the AEM and she has been given the

immediate tauks of:

a. Preparing complete assessments and personality data on

all of the influential AEl! leaders.

b. Determinino LICOOKY-l's influence on them as a basis

for;

c. Usine: the AEM, when the time cones, to keep Pellicer

and Rulfo from forming the UE affiliate in lexico, prepara-

tory to the coming CLE Congress.

d. LICOOKY-] is to continue her work in the AEM and to try

to become a close contident of Pollicer, Rulfo and other in-

fluential leaders of the AE!.

8. The Station plans

to closely watch the development of the

AEM and the plans

and activitles

Pellicer, Nulfo, Benjamin

Carrión, Miguel Angel Asturias and others who may participate in

planning for the

forthcoming CLE Congress.

---

## Page 62

DISPATCH

GLASSIFICATION

SECRET

129/3

PROCESSIMO ACTINDA

MARKED FOR INCH NIANG

10

Chief of Station, Mexico Clty

INFO

MICROFILMÉD

1500

NO INDERING RIGUINtO

ONIY DUALIAIRS DILE

CAN JUDGE INDISIATO

FROM

chief, EE

THRU:

SUBUACT

C NYXIS/ DALET/LICOOKY/Operation

00G MICHO. 52R

I CROFILES

ACTION REQUIRED, REFERENCES

LICOOKY/A Contact With Subject 08 201-12972

ACTION REQUIRED: Further assessment data requested per para. a

REFERENCE

: UNMA - 25546, 12 March 1965

1. We vere especially pleased to receive the LICOOKY/!

target survey on Subject (of 201-12972) and to learn that the

Station bas & controlled asset who enjoys direct, non-profer-

sional,

social contact with Subject.

As the Station is aware,

Subject's extra-curricular activities have become a matter of

Increasing CI concern to & number of Stations in Latin America.

However, none of them appears to have assets

in sufficiently

close contact with Subject to determine what be is actually

doing and for whom

He realize, of course, that LICOOKY/1 pro-

bably will not be able to shed

any light

In this regard, but

we hope that her contact can be

exploited to provide

of personal operational assessment data on Subject which we

have largely lacked up to now.

Our information on Subject has so far

ing on the point of iis suspected intelligence affiliation and

susceptibility to recruitnent Nonetheless,

we regard LICOOKY/l's views regarding Subject as objective and

During future contacts,

we request that she con

centrate on discerning Subject's persoual attitudes and weak

nesses e exploitable vulnerabilitles.

Should Subject bu trang

ferred laterally to another location in the West, we would 11k0

to try from the very outset of his assignment to undertake the

type of gradual, long-teru developnental contact which LICOOKY/l

suggested.

To helpus plan for the selection of an appropriate

asset for

this purpose,

we belleve it would be useful for

LICOOKY/I to prepare a personality profile on the type of indi

vidual to whom subject is most ilkely to respond and who could

hope to rein Subject's friendship and confidence with

least difficulty or disadvantage.

the

Oswald S. LAFAVERS

Distritution:

Orig. &1 + COS

CROSS REFERENCE iO

TIAR 100 CA SEMBER

ERiE

- 201-12972

13634

#STE 18. May. 1965 -

SECRET

50-6-129/3

OtiCE

FE/YA

PIGRATIO

I dms

1217

Internal:

+ - RID/FI

1 - AH/1

3 - EE/YA

L/EE/YA_

CATE

UTU5

---

## Page 63

DISPATCH

Cries, i Divlsion

CLASSIFICATION

if.

PROCESSIRG ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

MICROFILAL

FIREA

Cale? ca Station, Mexico Clin

Mait LI000NY Project. Progress Report for larch 1905

ACTION REQUIRED - MEFERENCES

References:

A.

nsg-e506o, 11 larch 1955.

102s-13437, 15 March 1905.

a name talente

feom.278, 896/.090:

Attached 15 the LICOOKY Project Progress Repori for the month of

March 1905.

Iss eeiving of nis frojcct durire tne reporving periou is

covered in detail in en

effort to cocoiy wich the insuractions contained in

paregraph t of reference-i.

unless scheraine required the next Progress Report will cover the

perio: 1 April tarough 30 june 1065.

By that time the Llutik Unit hopes 1t

will have a secretary to dielp with its

"paper" load.

The "juanita" referred to ir parngroph le of attachrent, is identical

juana sir: LAnCOS, previnusly reporter in 12XI-2772.

tryine to locate cer adress and pione number In order to be able to provice

tro Cunterala Ste:lon with nore Irforation on this eroap.

It 1s requested that Headquerters

index the followird names in the

context in walch arcy appear here:

doree *CARRach, laric Teresa Retty de

*RELUCAS, ATIO

"FILIO, MOrGe *FILIO, Luis *AREAL, Guillero *ROUSSE!

panda,

¿sine *AVAR-O." Scation las ro traces on laverro, tre brothers Fillo,

nor on the pseudong= Carrenza.

Willar: C. CURTIS

ATR4C2CC: Procress Repori (0-16 i 2), kiw

Distrtcution:

MICROFI-MED

APR 1 5 1955

COS MICRO FER.

CROSS REPERINCE TO

80 6-1213

DATE

7 1r1l 1355

HES HIE NUMBIA

CLASSITICATION

DECRAT

---

## Page 64

SECRET

LIckY Projoct Procross 9:10rt

Narch,

1055

TRACHGAT 20: HARA-25798

76

MICROFILMES

APR 1 5 1965

DOC. MICRO. SER

1. Production

me lISA kI Fronet has not croduced any irfornation Inerte

durine this recortire priod, During this period LICCUrY-I Fas

pon mrontin: on hor sativitice and veraire as

Follows:

no lal learned that tie

Cuateralar 937 care aparesched

santolane certails pout printin: almors letter to o

intrituted

i Gietude. iran aiis occurs see mill be

to gain co-des ard ide tier ere autors and other

matirant antails.

'oratis "areas,

merrilla ros

in exile in

entalinal tet torilla cats victor

uts.

strongtraisels? -10.

etain tre cáress ard

a cour: er

and beatitleted

la Gate. "arita"

let one "lor tarranza", rosing

it gotta.

SECRET

is

treat: irre 5u'1589

secise-

no one # 3-9-0-21778°

10-60,=9l3

---

## Page 65

SECRET

in contict :ith ti ul oralla and an srertly a caster-

clan livire in ciudad ditalio uno is a gart of tre conco

auste: rotwern tho Gistemalan Commanist arilos in texico

and jarty tonere in Chaterala.

=. i-l co-tiruos renortire roomt studo inte or tar-arita

2z Parare ero Dielo Julius.

e. 1-1 cormlaret insie tirret aturies or telia ¿atialo lader,

lagundi, con lavicen ancorader to Pandae.

c. L-1 is -ramprino a torcet stust on ricter leccidi, an ad-

the sauroter!

of

int tes eus iritrost??

to

or irreste "dire.

lecites e e arancinte recitian

in tie

Foraire Crlirs.

... "-! is atto-ntino io tiortify ll licera -on pairrilla"

Tripoir torico

¡irega eri to mt a lire or troir actiriti:

i Il 1s caso attentir: io identico a trour of central

i-risans, Salvadoreans, dic.ratuons era Fiateraiars,

wo are matita with Luis Miral Zuria.

11-1 ige

FICO

leoni treiviti"".

lo dal tes to tie courde di infore-tion di teoricod ti.

Man da aa?

SEGRET

---

## Page 66

SECRET

corrurint lendark perconality in.

rexico for the past several yours.

or o rerular lasis.

Ies? B-rueltas lias iecon? ar alce nilc and for the isst

sateral t911s tas been living with an Indian girl. irs:

Tina 15959117906 too masterde relatione

sain with tre tenthers inturk,

and ior eyellio and or.

cHarger tearine to tre, Paybaltas there faires

Perritos clairo that that use tre Crag lee Crarrale

country. fag.

Zarveltas war tie contact man tether this

at the runnes an fatale the were to

emmet de smitten Coiller o820u9ae1 Banda Eraser of

•marice Carios Perias dinner, toch troun Eurunists,

out of tie countri, There tas r maculation that tals

leoper int

¿pore tonil coura tue arrest of tre tilic?

could roscue her tusbad "ror trir irflu-

-cott ale camaatione die drese ar roberous latter

into rains ti

ites ard taverro,

cartre and

He 100190?.

ot bors or tie

carasties

intrico.

SEGRET

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SEGRET

The letter ta

58222

Strtion there it vill reach

proc, "'rier cuttoritice. This my not work, tut is

the infortion protiled lu tor. Boraltas is trus ar? tho

"roun le arrested, nitlicity plus additiorel telr fron ine

...

au "Ai sinteso dimeno da bordon due di do test calde

Laidi Menini dächet De pã lante nei di fagala ana ciat 70%

de, in tuo citi are had

allei pien de deo unal collar e regaretion for cemen

little tanget latelia Sha tolt

hindine

e ne altittation

rot tetti.

rai:

7601300985

Ceratier"

?00t9919?11÷19

3t: 11 191000 tipopted 10011

raffrire

-G-:09

idi": me lopadi-i!

SECRET

---

## Page 68

SECRET

ront three norths perio?. for each metin, she prepares on

"activities report". Ir this reart an outlines ter activities

fer the preceedire resh, the caste che was working on, the reople

sh 835

in contact with and tho results. Ste alro iists tre taslis

she will work or trira the comino set, it cople she will see,

200.

I-l is rancisori in this vort cinco she has to control

nior ter contacts and jog to is irrele discreet in for olictirg

o: tr: laetro tard times her ridia to aury ri: ce duriar a rivin

conversatir.

inore is

to ovonir. to trin. un the subiect sre wisied

to circuss.

• Gecirity

entior: of their word. Meither ere curioge a out their cast officers.

man tello: their instructione concernin- the security of their

matinos not come with their r-goof'lorra. Dirit recortiri

rariod troir log boon no evidort of my unarbal scurity protin.

LIc: Tille rosines tor cood borist end tor corale is

turnot did was a termarene lise at operations, in trat she

duftere inl

14.1 S096üG0 dilü-is

o9÷ e9r1a-1 811: 1-1.

SECRET

---

## Page 69

14-0000

SECRET

1s ar intellicent coman, and in all or motiris she has 319a9.d

-ature ond attertive. She has foot roant ord relialle in bor

reitiars. she diacuores her maller cirly and escapts instruction

ni criticice without arpurint. she has resconded i:ll to irstruit-

lors and has worked hard in tryine to irprove tir riporting. She

arpears to he mali sajasted to her orvironment thich ic rost ex

trely tryin: et timoc.

In discione concorin- too com unist aud lertist roverants,

she piritted

trat st one tie 5!e was included ho their id o.ens

lud as she tad

rour older end tot absoryd

"orn of thair actiritiss

and personalition, sue ter ioot

all recrost for ther. She cai8 trit

she had leer cool'd !! Fidel costro in tie early days

and ÷o2

tought he could to cood for Cula, lit as overto lore devilereà

her isteroni.

mi toon cririrally. She alse co-arta

trot in

ion: talke with

allane of the son unit tiano? to all di trace conversatiora

staircati.

jason with thie:

and

rot

on proris

Bagcars

to

he hered

or.

crity.

case officer tra

i.??

rial. 15 a 5-a13 doe and

his arogg is limit, is

estimerts

out conacirtiere?'

5. Iraniane

SECRET

---

## Page 70

SECRET

YICC0r!-3 adritted tri accese to her communist contacts here

har bean hurt as a menult of her train

arociation

with linter.

at

the tire jo publicly trote with the party. do ar axarple o?

this, "Iruel corallo cold tor that cutiogres ani referred

as Monaries" of

the party and turt to had been roprimand

coraladen to reo aither ori of ter.

s. "éfectiyoners

• arro."""

rontt.

at-tion

mire of theictivitie

If sim

riotions on precille retruitront

"later ripartion

for

Information Perirts, it las kent te

outl...:in

4122 • uo-fil

cotine to limited to fis terror

tarrot,

7. 7165.

c?

regination.

"he gotta tier i'!

---

## Page 71

DISPATCH

SECRET

10

PANCESSNS ACTION-

MA-KED FOr

* INCHING

002000 1x

INFO.

Chief, EE Civision

DREIT iNALIFIEDE. i

FROM

Chief. WH Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

MICROFILAA

SUBJECT

СТСОСКУ

DMLET/LICOOKY/Operational -- Target Study of Djukd JULIUS (201 - 12972)

ACTION REQUIRED - REPERENCES

LICOOKY has been asked to presare tarree studies on the

officlal Yugoslavs whom she knows. Forwarded herewith is her

first effort.

to a more resent report frun ilcooky-l, she

began giving English

lessons to ilaria JullUs on 2 March.

LICCORY-

further reported that she spoke with Diuka on the telephone on

20 February 1965, and Djuke

old her that he had been very

worrled that he might have heart trouble since he had recently

experienced brachycardia, uneven pulse beat, and extreme anxiety.

However, the doctor tolá Djuka the week before that his heart.

no damage and that it was simply a case of "nerves".

Further information from LICOOKY-l on the JULIUses will

be forwarded as received.

Willard C. CliATiS

inclosure:

Target Study

Distribution:

t=1.7.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMIGN AND ARSABER

HMMA - 25506

¿LASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

12 Merch: 1955

MOS FILE NUMBER.

201-12972 (FFN: P-7910)

---

## Page 72

SECRET

Targat Study of Julius Jjuica

Io. isdreso

jubjeit rento aborteent : 33 at l'arlang iscobado 692. The

awltchboard number of this apartrent buildine 18 25-19-34. To

ell subject, dial be switchboard number and nor. for extension

33. Ho pays approsiantely 515C0 pocos (120.00 VIcy) for this

aparteent.

2. Physical rescription

Subjoet appears to be about 50 ye,rs old. He 1e.

not good-

100kINg.

medium heiget,

thin crowbish rair.

very round face,

lorgo nose, and chulby figure, source has beon unsble to deter-

mine hia date of birth

or place of birth other than that he was

born In Yugoslavlo. Fe is of lungerion descent.

3. Religion

sutfect 18 hall Jealeh. thile he bae no obvious rolledova

Inclination he identities hirsoll so a Jer.

4. Squeation

Source has never boord bin sueak of attending any partie

ular schools or univeraltles. Fron hla speoch and writing and

logical approuch to problers to

appoors to base & hich degree

of intelligance, Subject apoake ingliah ant -andsh fluently.

5• Military

Subject mos active 1a partisan flehting during, Horld far Il

In lugonlavia. Le hos expressed hla gratitude and appreciation

o the critiah sole durine this mar. to talloves the iritlab

saved his life when te ras wounded tehind the Ceran lines snd

was rescued by idliar Corrandos ho took him to Italy ubere

6.

Profeasion

jubject do a nesscaper correspondont for joltica, a

Contualat forty neuspoper in Yugoslavia. defore corl:5 to

¡onlco he sas located iu cabinaton, a.d. le does hia miltlog

---

## Page 73

1d-0n0d

national politics, ie obteins his Inferration through soresl

restorch, Intervies, and traiing Icforation mith other corres

pondenta.

7: Family

Subject's nother livea In Yu oslavla. ie has children by

a prévious sorrlage who alao live la lugoslavla. lla cresent

wife la an extreroly attactive mosan whe is 15 or 20 yeera

his Junior. For aure 13 Maris and she ase formerly a menter of

• Yugoslar opera company. Morio hopes to retura to a career

as an opera singer.

the hopes they will be reansigned to ash

ington where abe feels there de a freater opportunity to study

•ad reenter such a career.

3. Finnelal Status

source says that over the three yeors she has known Subjet

and his wile, his airo has alsays concentid on hor 11ttls money

thoy have to 115e ou.

he corploing that the cost of renting

furnished apartsents (1300-1800 pesos) was 60 ruch she had

nothing loft with otte to buy cloches.

Subject rebor has any pocket coney and several tines on

hia return froi tripa to Cuba he didn't have taxl corey for the

faro froc the mirport to his hoce. source has, hosever,

ancun of subject borrowing money or buying co credit, source

describes bis as definitely the tyre to

"Have sittin his rents.

This Irck of ronsy does not apperr to disturo bie since he

exhibito no laterest in astortos possessione.

9. Hobbles.

jubject has no Interest In any particular sports or other

comor bobbles. Ho liker good rusic and the company and cor.-

versation of other soltere. For relaxation be Ilker to go t:

Cuernavoca where he cao sit and colar la the sua. n genera)

he seera to be quite in love sita life ltself.

10. Erlends

#e la not narro:-aladed about the politics, nationality.

or raco of the persona ulth whos le associates. lo cocaidere

Carl Migdall, corres-ondont of U.S. iowa and orld Roport ar

reputad to to an extreme right-aloger, as hie friend. Anotrer

lose friond 19 Morris Fosenburgo an AP correspondest 1u

conleo whace vIto is lugoshry Jenion and a daugater of a

---

## Page 74

SECRET

Jugoslar who flad the country when tbe Concunista took aver.

Jubject la close to Mario Monieforte Toledo whom be adcines

personally and reapects as being very woll inforsad sabject

also regards John. Fettle and Dudley Froust as close Iriends.

Then Subject net x. Frank Tannenboun at the party glven bj

source a couple of weeka ago ho made every effort to estabilah

a friendly rapport. (Then jubject had heard toot Tannenboun

uno coring to "exico be teld

source he wag sxtrebely anxlous

to most him and nould be

arrange na intreduction,, *Ost apprectative 18 soures sosid

bo

Subjuct probably sees Ernesto Madero about once & seok.

They run

into esch other at recortions and subject souetlu:s

vialta racere at his office shore be goos for shra or back

ground esterinl. source doesn't knus of their baring visited

rach other sochally in their homes.

11. Enemies

Source has never heard Jubject speak of anyone in a

derrogatory wanner nor has she beard of anyone in her circle

of acquaintances apeat in unfriandly terme of bie.

12. Attitudes

Subject has never sxhibited any blas toward peraone

because of their race, religion, colors

or nationality. He has

never been

vocally critical of capitaliam or an ardent defender

of courunise. He has no phobla against hrericans. io is boring

ho will be reassigned to

ashington. He has often expresaed

his

airiration of ishington as a cultural conter and apparently

enjoys the wide rango of contacts avallable there. (Tannenboun

told source that during lio conversation with iubjoch, Subject

bad talked in torms of critlelan of Fidel Castro and Cuba la

general.)

13. Habits

Thore 15 no arilence that iubject is laterested ir gambling,

drugs, c:=. Fe drinks, but bla personality doesn't change unier

the effecta of alcohol. "is eblel seniness is young and pretty

monen, ilthough hla nife 1s young and very attractire be 1ik9a

to do tbe ion juan tit atonevor be his the aprortunity.

14. ipproach for Fecruiteent

source doubta to could be recruited as a controlled sient

oy a rootern Intolilenco service, particularly on a 0n9-8.0t

busta. He probably coull not be compronisen throug! his for

Junn bables. Fe probably sould lough it aay threate of black

---

## Page 75

SECRET

alde shade be feels the cinch of lock of morey. he couldn'e b

bought If lt seant a elear

confliet of 1deniiar and nagive löyalt

to his couatry.

say approach would have to to eade eradiaily, ever a long

tsee, bosed on a high intellectual plana dod mitual friendahip.

during which tims he couls be reeducated ideologically. There

is ne certaiatz that this approach sould be succasatu

Co:

Source belleves ruct of his knouledge gould be tapped through

wueh the same approach described

in the paragrast. JuLeilately

otose but on the casts of trading information. It could have to

appens to hir that he ma getting

as mach in return

as he

alriago This peraon probably ahould be a recogulzed profeasional

journallat.

15. Conticued isaessrent

Marla has ex-rossed a desire to inprove her anglish, obich

Is nor extrerely linlted. About thrae weeks age the asked sourde

11 she would help her. The lessone didn't atart tanediately as

Marla becare ill with

the "erlope". The lesaone sere to bogin

other the last of this nees (1a februnry 65) or the firot of

next week (15 February). jource plans to beet uith Varia too

or three times a weak at jaria's hone, is a result of these

lessons, soure: nill continos recorting fleus on jutject aa

she acquires them.

---

## Page 76

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MATESS EGO PONFAIR

•TO

Chief, WH Division

iNFO.

FROM

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAM RIDGE INDEXiNG

,MICTOFILA

chiet of Station, vexico City La

SURELY LCOOKY Project Progress néport for December 1904 - Febriary 1965.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: None, FYI.

Reference: HMIA-24990, 15 December 1964.

Attached Is a LICUOKY Project Progress Repori covering the period

Y December 1964 to 28 February 1965.

2.

Reletive to paragraph 4b, Chief re Stetion suthorized the purchase

of 50, 000 pesos worth of casic second hand furniture to assist

in establish-

Ing a base from which LICOUrY-1 could operate, sone of this was acquired

at better than narket prices from Natalie S. MICHNOWS voo bad an excess of

some items. Station retains ownership of the fumiture.

Willei? C. CUSTIS

ATTACHMENT:

Progress Report, h/ (3 coples)

Distribution:

→ Chief, WHD, W/atto 2;

-Fle

CROSS REFERENCE I

LISA:DY STASOL AND NUMBER

F3NA-25560

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

8.35

-1 1/3

• 11 Varch 1965

I MOS fig teeth

50-6-129/3

---

## Page 77

1d-0d0

SECRET

4:555 4MMA- 25568

1.

7 Beganton

41im 295.-90383 65

Frigiotion

#8818184 25560

I1Nar65

E..

tho scuros a tie inforation conteined in

203 0476, 0479, data, erd 0529. lol ras retires toreat

stacies.

tas provided otter information de coratiana!

L-1

1alre.

i.r:

exa--le

is the idonticie-tion of can "Inanita", a cateort berteen tr.

2onl usecueda Fileio and dietur mual Cotiarea "artin,

irs.

i==

"exion and instamla.

?.

Firesto's ne-hoe, farios 21207

and on the piness tracel

of

and his triing to coses Pica

= 4:1

"Can to Mesocio le later

notoriod the cancallation cô this trio.

₴.

irturtlors,

centralioriton comiunist

got leftiste tito

rosis. in

Cie

egsited the toor ot

s.2-

raring torret studise no porscralition of intorist to the

"crin-s e torot otudy en licter

Fai*:

0x-÷1ê: 0? 00-102

Sto is airo retorin information oi

"-fler,

and on

invioriti

mies caried coriti

'—o:

arter: 1065 for

Bout camariet:

rito t this

laint ir

caiitior

Patt ist door,

illin" tri his

I-ntals.?

t:!. 9.11

"=":.

-orientani ris

"--isa

-..: Cr.

Troy tree

"arrio"?

i:--

temeritis

"Perni

sirt

.....?

SECRET

:tilitmra25600

As COP:

---

## Page 78

SEORE!

LIC00K'-2 cortiruss his task of rerorti--

th:

travel

of Central

Arericsr

comurists and loftists throuch his

contact

witt

Judith Forr-to.

c.

LILINE- Handles HICUURi-l End LILIUK-5 Fanales LaCCorY-2.

3.

security

Handllae thege ante agognate no vensual satarity risk. .

4.

Problems

fa magiara

to termiti

no dey before

-eter tevere -029

rocritalino dit trercrial arouori..

cornlient?÷

ti an altere:

4207

adriristorad.

te=?

•rol-na. or

& Pagari e pri roturres

to ti? hoc-ital

fer

tra? 19":.

5.

ratura do ite contr era bad beng liviri in chrap

reiniors,

finallo tee rapire caost

igna ..

Tar

ahare

Vocire roor.

'-1

-?

4?011.

cathe?

a cot

frisa'

B-u0is

nar

iiines:

tant-it

tune txiotes ad cortributsd

he without?

"as? thope cio

rou!s

invite ::

corrects

non thoms the

introna.

Th .

istion

Fas

mlnd per furriet hoy arerg-t rich i:

h. hos not recoporgi tor railtt

ar.+

hs a base ci cretatier".

pixel 390, ah.

•han tbl: to ristablist

conteots.

c.

Iter"i-d tuo not priorion ong prohleas.

"reininr

Sines LIcaillle roccoory ard costretie do coortir

rent

non raporti...

re tritto et rarerte click tre tien critto con lock

staticlo

t:÷

SECRET

---

## Page 79

1.:

".

"IC-O"il bos als0 boor 'ver irotruction in

paration of target etudira.

there-

netortiva

pree-tivo t: this

tine of

troining ent there fre hour a moried improtisant in

her. retootli.

d. Both itodull and -2 me continuoili coutioned concernin

racurity

their ethod: of

obtainir.

information and meetiers.

Plans

rIcourt°s truinine ulie be continuo: and will la pressed

to enlarce

Fer

arca

roracts.

LICO::-a 11li sminus en roport on

travel ne to res done

i. the

Past.

SECRET

---

