# 104-10174-10038

## Page 1

1104-10174-1038

11..

DRAST

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2 February 1969

MEMARANBUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJDCT: Debriefing of Edward G. Tichbara(P)

1. Edward G.Tichborn(P) arrived in Washington from his trip to Cuba during

the night of 31 Jamary 1960/. He was debrisfod at the Hotel Stetler from about

1000 to 2530 no hardo Februy A To Diresent, & tho dobrioring Nor Hex, .

the Undersipned. This debriofing was very Interesting and resulted ton a good

deal of pertinent infornation. The three and a half roels of tage derived tr

therefrom are now being transcribed by this cifica. Some of the more sallent

pointa are notod below.

XX

2. Some of the operational Information and sugrostions offered by Tichborn

are the following:

a: There appoars to bo little chance of a coalition of the opposition

groups at this time or in the nor future since they are not well organized

and each group mn would want to be the lender of such an effort. Alco,

according to the mabers of the orposition to whon Tichborn talked, 1t 1s

the general consensus of opinion that Fidel Castro is In no danger of loosing

his grip or the devotion of his followerar for some time to come.

b. Fidol Castro seems to bocone most at upset and almost paniced by

defections. Possessing a "Messiah-type compler" he cannot bear the thought

of someone loaving the fold. Rather than to let such defections pass on

unnoticed, he feels corpilled to give reasons and rake excuses. This then

blows hhe matter up parhaps out of proportion and quickly becomes a matter

of public knowledge. Tichborn foels that the inducement of deractions coald

perhe u here more effect on Castro than any other singlo, rational actioa wo

co There appears to be a relativaly long standing schian between to

rothers Fidel and Faoul Castro. Raoul 19 the more cold individual. As a

examplo, Fidel once ordered some 400 prisoners to be returned safoly to thei

but Racul had a number of, them killes. The general feeling In Cuba 1a

have little effect on Fidel who has already reduced ikrod the land holdings

of his mother and another brother in conforuity with the agrarian refors

rogram and who salled his sistor, and firod a mulater, over e shako-don

on an insurance doal.

3. Of special operatioral interest wore several Individuals Tichborn

mentioned vho right havo sone Influence on Fidol Castro and hence mett be of

08

3/PV

---

## Page 2

operational Interest.. They are:

a. Pather (Padre) Alberto de Castro: ho 1s a Jesuit priest prevently

locatod In Carcas, Venezuola, who had been a teacher of Fidel Castro during

his youth. Castro was In Venezuel, and saw Father de Castro there during

which time the litter criticized Fidol for sone of his actlons. In spite of

tho fart that this roninstration occured in front of some of Tidel'a mon,

and they laterthe litter treated hin with great respect. It was felt by Tlchborn's source

chatted alone of this information, and by Tiahborn, that Father de Castro undoubted

for an hour...

has some Influence over Castro, Tichborn surgested that 1t would be of value to

deternine whother or not Fidel has ony rogular contact with Father de Castro

and. 11 so, what oferational potential he might lavo.

D.. Herb nathowss he la a journalist with the N.Y, Iines and was the only

Amerlean

neuspaperman covering the Castro story prior to his final success.

While Tichborn was in Vuba, a front pago article ye appeared in Revolucion

(tho regimo's press spokesman) on Mathews. It was a sort of editorial and

praised Mathews as a "real man" and one who understood the revolution and

Its eins. Tichborn fools that 1t might be to our advantage to get into

contact with Mathews since he appears to have the confidence of the

c. Profossorthosco: Subject is on the faculty of the Univeraidad de

Villaneva and is a contemporary of Fidel Castro. They vero cla gnates and

both were debators although according to Rosco, Castro did not make the

Debating: Society of which he(Rosco) was the presidentonce after the

revolution, Rosco attended a sppoch Castro made and after the oration, the

latter asked Rosco what he thought cf 1t. Upon hearing sone criticiam, he wanted

to know how it could have been inproved. Since Castro was leaving for

Venezuela and the United States he asked Rosco to accompany him in order that

they could discuss the matter further. Tichborn fools that Rosco (a member of

the opposition) la probably has more influence on Castro than Rosco realizes

and that this possibility would be worth looking into.

1. Edward Rahurrow: he produced a-IV program on Castro and Tichborn feels

what he night have ostablished a rapport with Castro durine thia perlod.

• One of the contacts Tichborn nade 1n Cuba (the Diroctor of Tourism) aske

Im If ho knew of anyone who would be interested in coming to Cuba on an all-expenses

pald visit in order to vrite articles (or other similar propaganda) on present day

Cuba. Ilchborn mentioned Clote Roberts, e popular radio and TV commentator in los

102025 cose deto. (Tie po ali to be ta potter retu taco

5. While in Cuba, Tichborn accidently net a young lad who Inter revealod te

alm that she war ar

rent for the Stato Dopartrent" He felt that this vas

and that it should bo brought to our attention for that purpose

The Incident and the detalla will bo rade the subject of a separate

sonorandun for CI Staff.

---

## Page 3

1d-0000

6. On the adainistrativo side, do. "lehho will Carand ly mall hia

fInancial accounting, one copy to the cover comminy and the other to Henry

_W. Darkin(P). The cover lotter which was provided him the the evant that

he cano to the attention

of the byban authorities was returned to us and 1a

now in his illa. (Thore was no necessity for its uso.) Tichborn inquired as to

the possibility of receiving reimbursement for redical exponses which will

on 1 February 1960.

Evalena S. Vidal

---

