# 104-10330-10081

## Page 1

1104-1030-100811

MAR 31 '97

12:02PM

P.1

CLASSIFIED FAX

TRANSMISSION

ARRB

2027240088

To:

Fax #:

From:

Subject:

Barry Harrelson

703-613-3060

Michelle Combs

DS&T and DO Briefing Questions

Date:

Pages:

March 31, 1997

17, Including this cover sheet.

COMMENTS:

Barry,

Attached are the final versions of the DS&T and DO briefing questions. There are no changes in

the DS&T questions. Questions have been added to the DO list to reflect our conversation

March 19 and 20. You, of course, already have our detailed explanations for the earlier DO

questions. If you have any questions or if there are any problems, please give me a call. I should

be in all day. See you tomorrow.

Michelle

---

## Page 2

13-00000

P.2

MAR 31 '57 12:03PM

HTLINGUAL

1. What kinds of records might the DS&T maintain on the HTLINGUAL project? How

could these records be queried?

Castro Agsassination Plote

1. What kinds of records would TSD or other offices of DS&T have maintained on the

various Castro assassination plots? How might a search query be framed to isolate

these records?

---

## Page 3

13-00000

P.1

MAR 31

"St

12: 09PM

SKUNK WORKS

A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed

BEN R. RICH AND LEO JANOS

B

BOSTON

LITTLE, BROWN AND COMPANY

NEW YORK

TORONTO

LONDON

---

## Page 4

13-00000

31 '97 12:04PM

P.2

Food.

GRARY OF CONGREGE

SEP 1 5 1994

COPYAICHT OFEICE

is: 1

**Copynight © 1994 by Ben R. Rich

All rights resetved. No part of this bookiny be reproduced in

any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including

Information storage' and retrleval systems, except by a

reviewer who way quote briaf passage. in s review.

First Edition

TL 565

• R53

1994

Library of Congress Caraloging-In-Publication Data

Rich, Ben R.

Skunk Worka: a personal memoir of my years at Lockheed / Ben R. Rich and 100

Janos, - Int ed.

Includes Inder

ISBN 0-316 74330-5

Care to dona dra 2d Dronaut Company - Elated Sta, RIch, Ear I

Janos, Leo. II. Title. II. Title: Skunk Works.

T1565.R53 1994•

338.7 623746 0973 - de20

94. 8732

10 9

8

6

4

3

2 1

MV.PA

solished simultaneously in Cana

• Like, Brown & Company (Canada) Limite

Printed in the United States of Amarica

---

## Page 5

13-00000

ly

re

ot

1e

S.

.1

1

MAR 31 '97 12:04PM

P. 3

OVERFLYING RUSSIA

158

The next thing we tried was something called a Salisbury

screen, a metallic grid applied to the airplane's undercarriage

in the hope of deflecting incoming radar beams, but it worked

only at some frequencies and altitudes and not at others.

Kelly thought it was more practical to. try special iron fer

rite paints that would absorb a radar ping rather thai.

bounce it back to the sender. The paints were moderately efo.

fective but inhibited heat dissipation through the airframe's

outer skin and we experienced overheating engine problems.

But the paint lowered the" radar cross section by one order of

magnitude, so we decided to give it a try. We called these

specially painted airplanes "dirty birds" and shipped the first

one out for flight testing in April 1957. Our test pilot, Bob

Sieker, took the U-2 up to over. seventy thousand feet and

suddenly radioed that he was experiencing rapid airframe

heat buildup. Moments later his engine blew out and the face-

plate blew off Bob's oxygen mask as his pressure suit in-

stantly inflated. The U-2 dove straight down and crashed. It

took us three days to locate the wreckage and Bob's body. An

• autopsy revealed that above seventy. thousand feet he had

suffered acute hypoxia and lost consciousness in only ten

seconds. The culprit that killed him was a defective faceplate

clasp that cost fifty cents.

The CIA was so desperate to buy time for these Soviet over-

flights that Bissell got Kelly to sequester four of our test flight

engineers and have them write a bogus flight manual for a .U-2

twice as heavy as ours anch with a maximum altitude of only

fifty thousand feet that carried only scientific weather gear in

its bay. The manual included phony instrument panel photos

with altered markings for speed, altitude, and load factor

limits. Four copies were produced and then artificially aged

with grease, coffee stains, and cigarette burns. How or if the

agency got them into Soviet hands orily Mr. B knew, and he

never told.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

MAR 31

197

12: 05PM

P.4

Questions for Follow-up DO Records Briefing

April 1, 1997

1. At what point did the DDP begin to keep records of destroyed records? For

example, in a Cold Warrior footnote, Tom Mangold reports that as any of Angleton's

files were destroyed, "a complete record was carefully maintained about what had been

done. (George) Kalaris signed off on every file and the DCI's office was notifled."

(p. 143) Where are these records?

2. Could an archival search be run on specific topics for retired records at the CIA's

Record's Center? Perhaps an ARRB staffer could be present during the search to review

the abstracts and to suggest other fields or topics to be searched?

3. Could a crypt search for records containing relevant crypts be run through

cryptographic reference? How would queries need to be framed and stated?

4. Why is it so difficult to develop a list for all personnel (official, contract,

administrative, or TDY) assigned to the post referenced in RIF 104-10065-10199 from

1959-19647

5. We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on

the Cuban and sovlet consulates and embassies in Mexico city between september 1

and December 1, 1963. Flow can we frame a search query to determine if we have a

comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time?

6. How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the

Medço City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and

during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the

Sequestered Collection represents all records of the technical production that was

vailable at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original productio

till exists, where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted t

retrieve any additional records? If such electronic take has been destroyed, do records

exist of the destruction?

%. Could you describe the process by which operational funds are proposed, approved,

recelved, and distributed (circa 1963). What funding and disbursement records exist?

How are they organized? How should a request be formulated to institute a reasonable

search of these records?

1

---

## Page 7

13-00000

MAR 31 '97 12:05PM

P.5

8. We have seen DDP monthly operational reports which contain information on the

allocation/ distribution of operational funds. Are there other DDP records which would

reflect how certain projects utilized their funding? How are these records organized?

How should a search query be framed?

9. Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing

companies during the 1960's. How should a query be framed to search for connections

between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies?

10. Did the Agency have any relationship, projects, or contacts with publishing houses

during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission?

How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a

relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books

about the assassination?

11. How would a query be framed to search for files on any office or person dealing

with organized crime and Cuba? How should a request be formulated to institute a

reasonable search on this topic?

12. Is there a comprehensive record or list detailing the identities of individuals on the

Interagency Source Register? How are these records organized? How can a search

query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual appears in the

Register.

13. How could a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular

Individual was given access to classified information by DCD (then OO)? What kind of

files are assembled in the process of clearing non-Agency contacts/ sources for access to

classified information?

14. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-13, dated

November 1, 1996, contained the following questions:

A.

What forms of backchannel communications were there between the

Mexico City Station (including the COS), IMWAVE, or Headquarters

during 1963? By "backchannel" we mean, inter alia, any administrative,

senior staff, or restricted access communications, or any written or

electronic communications other than regular cables or dispatches (of the

type included in the JFK Collection).

B.

Were there, In fact, any backchannel communications between the Mexico

City Station (including the COS), IMWAVE, or Headquarters during the

time periods 27 Sept - 16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov - 30 Nov 1963?

2

---

## Page 8

13-00000

MAR

31

"97

12: 06PM

P.6

C.

To the extent that there were any backchannel communications for the

time periods 27 Sept - 16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov - 30 Nov. 1963 (other than

those currently contained in the JFK Collection), please make such records

available for review.

Why has it been so difficult to answer these questions?

15. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-14, dated

December 23, 1996, documented our request for the annual or biannual Station reports

for Mexico City Station for 1963 and 1964. Why has it been so difficult to provide these

reports?

16. The attached Agency document released in 1996 contains the paragraph:

11. A memorandum marked only for file, 16 March 1967, signed M.D.

Stevens, says that ]. Monroe SULLIVAN, #28020%, was granted a covert

security approval on 10 December 1962 so that he could be used in Project

QKENCHANT. (Clay) Shaw has # 402897-A.

What do these numbers mean? What does the "A" at the ends of Shaw's number

signify? Do the files identified by these numbers still exist? Why was Sullivan granted

a covert security approval?

17. During the period 1959-1963, what was the purpose or goal of QKRNCHANT?

18. Under what circumstances were non-agency employees given covert security

clearances for the QKENCHANT project?

19. Did Clay Shaw receive a covert security approval for the QKENCHANT project?

Why was one needed? Did Clay Shaw receive covert security clearances for any

project other than QKENCHANT

20. What did Clay Shaw do within the QKENCHANT project?

21. Do records exist to account for the disposition of all files on Clay Shaw?

22. Did Howard Hunt have any involvement with the @KENCHANT project prior to

19647

23. Did J. Monroe Sullivan have any involvement with the QKENCHANT project prior

to 1964?

3

---

## Page 9

13-00000

MAR 31 '97

12: 06PM

SECRET

P.?

SECRET

24. The DO telephone directories list an Operational Services/ Defector Staff beginning

in October 1959? What was the Defector Staff? Did it have an operational component?

25. In the period 1959-1964, were DO officers, selected to serve overseas

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

31..92. 12:07PM •

P.8

MALRAOND, PER FL: 100-B98 (OTH 102)

SATA SUDA 214147.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Release As Santized

1008

• Д.

Enclosure 21

I've uncludes a por copy

of page Y that contess

11093.

I. Subjet was bom on 17 March 1913 In New Orleans,

Londalana.

standard background Information on Subjeat

(parents, marital etatus,

records of eduention und

employment, eta.) In Laoking because SHAW was a contact

of the Domestio Contaot service.

Traces on Subjeot have been sun in RID /Maln

Indes,

the index of the office of security and the

Central Cover Staff.

the fisat shoved only a 1951 FEr

Interview with sHAW about a former employea of the New.

Orleans International Trade Mart.

The sacond showed

tiat 00/Contacts Division had raquested a name trace ;

'"about 1949 and that the check of FBI regords then don-

duoted was nagativa. Central Covar Staff had no record.

some of the 00-s raporta based on sHaw'd

reporting are on hand.

Thay are the

following.

in noted that the source demariation Identifies the

'source by job titze.)

•#* 00-B 17958,

26 Masch 1952,.

conceins

, a trad

the

letter 1a a follow up of alsousions hold

In Now Orleans during Decembar 1951.

The

letter said that Soviet production and

export trade were being advertised and

Documant Number

1930-492-Y

for FOLA Review on

DEC 1977

---

## Page 11

13-00000

P. 9

MAR 34:97

HUNABED, FOR PL 102890 TS 40

ARLA 5k

= PAiT Z14147

-SECRET

promoted by Weit German money.

In Lage, He cart bat Bublahed

In Hamburg, at a pelce much lower than

compatitive volumes.

00-3-93819

27 December 1948.

In formation

•moquired 10 December 1948.

SHAW (identified

by job title) has agreed to leass to the

00-5-4933-49, 14 June 1949, Information

date late April and early May 1949.

Ratulta

of a trip SHAW mada In March through. May

1949 In West Indies, Central Anariod, and

Northern. south America.

d.

00-I 493449; 14 June 1949, mame general

subjeot and background as above.

® .

00-3-4935-49, LA June 1919, as above.

{..

00335477, 29 June 1951. ,Results of &

SHAM krio in 1951 in Centrel and .South

Amerioa and tha Caribbean arad.

On 9 May'1961 Caneral C. P. Cabell, then DDCg

addressed the Foreign Polloy Association of New Orleans.

It is bellevad that he was introduced by Clay SuAN.

On 3 March. 196% the Washington Stas reported

that Garrison had arrested SHAW and had made publio

charges that SiNg,. FERRIE, OSAID, and others had plotted

the assoination in the apartment of FERRIE at 3300

Loulalan. Parkway, New Orlaus.

SHAY has said that he

never saw OSwALD.

He denies having used the name Clay

BERTRAND. Jack S. MARTIN uld that FERRIE had mentloned

2

•."

---

## Page 12

13-00000

P.10

MAR 31

*97

•*.

tid

12:00PM

MILIARD PER PL. JOBBIG (OTE AOT

MARA 51.

2i. 214/147

-SEGRET

SHAN to him.

So. MOnTOe SULLIVAN, executive diractor of

the San Francinco World Trade Center, told the Amnoolated

Press that SHAW was In San Francisco and touring the

Canter with him on the day of the assassination.

now retired, was formaxly the managing director

of the

International Trade Mart In New Orleans.

He 1n 54 years

off had InveEigated Sis Late In 1963.

said that the

Janey clark, U.s. Attorey Ganers hon the eyldence

that the fat has, there was no connection found" with the

assanelnation.

7 Memorandum No. 84-67, J March 1967, from Chie,

Now Orleans Office, to Director, Domastle Contaot Sarve,

The firet contaot of the New Orleans oifice

of the DCs with Clay aHAW occurred In

Dacember 1948.

A namn check raquest was

• matumned "no Info. on 23 March 1949.

SHAW

was contacted by Me. Hunter Lacke of tha

New Orleana

office saven times an 1943,

twice in 1950,

Ilva times in 1951, nine

twice on 1955, and twice in 1956.

SHAW

1e the source

of aight 00-3 reports su

mitted by the New Orloans office.

At one

tima ho had the "y" number 115. 1.

The

Last contact took placo on 25 May 19561

On 23 January 1967 Jack S. MARTIN phoned

ho New Orleans office, sald that he wa

moriine on an Ambortant undarcover

•dea!

for. Garrison and Detective Louis IVON,

and was calling at IVON's roguest.

1o was

culling to ank the head of the CIA offion

to talephone IvON on his unilated number.

the writer, tloyd

No such am11 was made coneral Counsel ba

A. Ray, aoka

that the

Informad and that he provide advica.

produced by caR en

mation was provided by the New Orlenna office of Des:

3

• "O

---

## Page 13

13-00000

MAR 31

$97

12: 08PM

P. 11

Jas

COUCITO AT THE NATIONAL, ARCHIVES

Sines 25 May 1936 Mr. Hasbonteckonad scon stAy casualty,

by chenca.

In varlous

contauranto,

and arnotinge vard exchanged.

thar sade nuch canna.

anesuntor was ust bofoza GrAMs zacarenone an 1265.

Д .

on 7 March 2067 Pravda publichad on arciolo

"Clay Shaw of cha

CrA" datolinod Kons, & kerch

2067, witton. by Vi YERILKOV,

To anticlo chorgod thas

Cil Made, unc of the services of Clay Sind fos CIA's can

Incorant in zealy.

nanossination/ conapiracy.

In Pons un i Vogld Frado Cortor 102d0z-

It claims that

tho Contos.war a coroz fe: finnaing anti- Communios activity.

CIA gava directives to. SIAN.

To Moeld Trade Contor was

a branch of "rainloor" (aio),

*which tha posopapore in

Evikanzland oponly accusod of loriminal onoratione

(Corants

It appaar that oll o% the Pravde chargoo are

•une-yo, Oscope that thora was a CIA-BURN

Sc

£ar,.06. da. knoún; SUAX won soror asked to uso hir zciation

chip wich tha World rando Contor fo= clandostino purposes

unde

'In fact,

ho hao not boon an Italy.

10%

20G7 subjocts, Icalim Ardoco pi tho clay Thau MiagE,

pho countons Balla Boin of 3. Yaros 1049 has da abbiolo

the antastination, ond, the, Nosid Frede Consor

Contains no rolavant inforcation.

woo giantád a covart socurity copzoval on 10 Dacombor, 1962

no that he could ba unad in projoct Cienchant.

sual hes .

0602097

ilorogandum fron

2907;: Gubjadt:

isaaoe Koallto an. Parrone Conncatod with

"Contra londikla. Concorcinlo" (Kozlá Izaño Conte=), 51206

---

## Page 14

13-00000

MOR 21:97. 12:09PM,

P.12

Same page,.

better copy.

QK redacted

SECRET

sinca. 35 May 1956 Me. Hunter Leake had seen SHAW canually.

by chanca,

In various cowntown Nev Orleans festaurants,

and greetings ware axchanged.

The last such camual

encounter was Just bafore BHAW's ratirement An 1965.

On 9 March 1967 Frauda publinhed an artiole

called "Clay Shaw of. the all datellned tone, 6 Hare:

1967, Wiltten by v.

the artiele charged that

ciA made use of the sarvioes of Clay SHAW fOr CIN'S OWn

Interote In Italy.

The Pravds plece notes that the DA

In New Orleans le accusing StAY. of participation In the

spassination. conspiracy. It days SHAW spent "one year"

In roms an & Horld Trade Canter leader. It claim Chat

the Center vas 's cover-for financing mil Communint notlvity.

ada gave caractives to SHAW. The World Trade Canter wa

• branch. or "Permidax"

(ale),

"which the newspapers in

Switserland openly accused of 'criminal operatione"

(Comments It appears that all of the Pravda charges ar

untrue, excapt that there was a CIA-SRAY rOlationahip.

tar aa

In Known, SHAW was nover asked to use his salation

ship with the World Trade Conter Lor clandestine purposes

and, in fact, he han riot been in italy.)

1967 aubjnot. Itarm specte of the clay shaw MiE.

The Consore della Sara of 5 March 1967 has an artlole

about BlAH, the assassination.

and the World Trade Center.

contarns no relevant information.

so that he could be uned In Project LJENCHANT. SHAW has

1402897-8.

Mamorandun from C/EUR/I to C/CI/R & A, 24 March

1967,. Subjeats

"TrAGe sasulte on Persons Conneated with

Centro Mondale Commarchula" (World Trade Center), filed

C/N'& A folder, Clay silnh - working papara.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

MAR 31 '97: 12:09PM

PRODUCE A IN MOM, AN

P.13

ANIMAURU NER FI. 10RBI6 CTH ACE

-_ DATS 2/414]

"if"

The 5: March 1967 Laiue of LI Messaggazo

Linke sHAN with the World Trade center.

Othora linked to the cantar wore traced,

with resulta soported in this. mamorandum.

No relationship to the Garcison Invastigation

"Parmider"

i Hope ato in the ting because ea

In Rome,

World Trade Canter and Permides are

snocintad. Again, chore is no information

here which relates significantly to the

case Gariiion fa trying to build In New

Orloans..

13.

The Washington Post, Outlook, 2 Aprll 196%,

"Sonking ruth in New. OrTeans In the Midale of the

Night", George Lardnor, JI.

Carrieon's man droys rosso to shaw'e

French Quarter home,

R0$80 posed a0 a

Mutual of Onaha salesman.

He knocked at

doors SHAW anewered. RUSSO said that he

was Clem BERTRAND®

SILAN La a 54-year old bachelor and

socialite who pioneezed the s3-atory

Intemational Trade are In New orleand.

le was subpoenaad by Garrinon'n.

office

According to his Erlande,

hiu questioners

righte:

They told him they had avidence

of a meting with FunrIe and OSWALD.

There was a fuse and stAn was arrested

and booked on conspiracy to murder JP&.

That night Garrison's man raided sHAN"

told reporters that he did not know clay

SHAN, but he Identified the man arrested

by Garrison as Clem DERTrIND.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Mr. Cruxe. No; I thick in each case it will depend ao much on the atoation

with the partientar peror. It l peraon comes in and be fa very agitated or

romething of that kind, it might dictate a lotally different ayproach than a dider

ent kind of thing

Mr. Duzzas, Would't It be metol though to fire I don't want to sugeent

what the Secrotary of State should de in this, but in the light it this expert-

ence, would there not be some beneft possibly in gling people i the feld the

resit of the experience guinel in thia partierlar case?

Mr. Oxana. Well; the general appreck, and other matters related to it,

ure touched an in orientation coursed for consular oficers and no 00.

ma I look on Consul Snyder's actlons, that he bebared very much lice a respon

sible Forelgo Bervice officer.

Tint bappened long before I was in the Department, so I can Bay thiat

without any involvement, But it somed to me that he did jost what-he

should bare done, despite the unfortunate aftermath. And It shows to me, at

Jenst, that the tenining nod ocentation that these people are getting le right, i

of Hbram Chayes

of state

miriceable, and they aro ahle to handle them utaations as they come ta"

Nix, Dures I realis that you ought not to prescibe bard and hat rules

that there is a broad range of direlion that should be exarcined here.

'Jost ratie the guestion us to whether a guod deal of experience basn't been gated

In this case in that very feld.

Mr. OgATRA. Well, It muy very well be that more attentio to that particular

•annect «bould be' piven lo the odentation coores and no on

tend. to reflect what In hot nt the momet you know, and it you haven't had

mention elit

• trouble with something, for a pretty long time, it tenda maybe not to get

Reprentatire Fan. If Orwald had perdated that day, October 81, In de

Dept.

would Bnyder have bee regaired to give It to him and permit bim to alga it?

Mr. Cares. I think it It had been in ordiary

office hoars when the con-

mate was open for burians, and l Snyder was satisfled that he wan compebeaty

that Drwald was competent, he woald have to give him the form, yea, kir.

Begresentative Fose, Doen Snyder, have the authority to mako a debermina.

Won of' compelency 1

Testimony

Legal.Advisor

Mr- Chara No: ha doem't have the suthorily to make a determination of

competence, and I suppose it ls poosible at some point to get the issue tried in

court

But I Chial a conclar alicer would probably be actlog within his

discretion if he saw sombody who was drunk or caving or smething and just

sald; "Well, I am not going to gire you this until I am mre that your action is

your ict"" After all; when the commil nocepta the oath, be is certifytug that it

to the aet of the perm, ln i meaniogful sense, and no if he thought that the

aren

person was hocompetent, I think he woald have discretion pot to give the oath.

Ext I pot that for astde becarise in the partienlar cose bore, Mr. Boyder made it

perfectly clear that he bud so reason to donbt that Orwald was fully competent.

And so lt Orwald had been there nt a tie when the offoo was open, or had

returned at a time when the office wus open, and hul persisted in his demand,

I think Anyder would have been under ao obligation to give him the form.

Representative Imo, The only technieal renson er baale upon which Enyder

could have denied Oswald the right that dey was the fact that it was on a

Baturday, a non working-hour pedod of the Embasky.

Mr. CocaTra Jes; I Chipi ho had every right to try to diamade bin, or per

made him not to act er perinade bia to think it over and come tack the next

day.

But It utter all of that Orwald still bad sold "But I want to do it now"

and te the offce was open for badness, then I think be would have bail to do it

„Mr. Dure I Chink it night he matal it le has not beci done to introdacs

at thie pont us un exhibit, the form at outh of remundation.. Here la the for

maliced oath and I think-lt woald be well to have this in our zecords unlem

It la already in vor recredi

Beprentutive Vora, I aerse.

Mr. Camunr. No: it int Could nemy it wil be marked as Commiss

Exhibtt No: 155 and nuce thin wdicker on that nes phoboctat it and then just

(Corantanion Ichilit No 06o wus marked for Identicution and recefred to

- evidenca,)

Representative Fic When Orald came back an November 8, 1 belkere, which

was a regalar worldng de

Mr. Couman. Mr. Cuminion, ho dil not some lack on Normber I Ha

merely wrote a lother.

Mr. Craves. Wrote a letber.

He never came back.

Bepresentative Fom Are mi at the employees, Me. Boydec,-Mr. MoDelur,

and. the others who had any. Anthand contact with the Ormile cane to thin

ures, were they State Department enployses?...

Mr. Charge Yes sr; there bro man who were the only one who lid me

him directly, I think the mortary, their secretary aho sew him, bat had cong

to do with him sept an a reccotionist There two men were Torego. Bery.

Joe officera unid are now Foregn Beryloe officers

Repeatatlye Vow, In the africhet term 4

Mr. CAria ten pie; members of the race service apponbed ay this

President with tho advice and copsent of the Benate

• Rogresenta tire Iara, 'Could you tell m to' a bit moro detall the proces that

you followed or the procedure that you corded out who you tirat got into the

Xou mentlued yenterday you got a call or you were directed by i belleve

the Becretury of State az by mmebody in bigher unthority to tute certain steps

Wil you tell us who called you, what you die in the firet & or 1 days?

Mr. Onaire. It was the erening «ê the day, perhaps about E oclock 'ex thi

day of the amandation. It may have been somewhit curtler, becise I thlnk

I remember I went home for mn bour and tben come back' to exry out this

ignment. Mr. Ball, once it becgae known that Oswald had mme history a

GeORGe WILBALL

Mr. Douse. Ball in the Undec

i Becretarz of Statin

Mr. Charms. He was then the Acting Secretary Decause the Becretary of Bonte

as you recall was on A plane over the Pacific,. 8o he was the Acting Secretary.

But even tl be hud been the Under Becretury be le wry client.

Representative Fora. He stil had some autbority.

Mr. Castes. Ten; he directed me to gother together the files in the Derurtment

on Oswald, and to prepare a repoit to be avalinble for him the frut thior in the

munday covering an best-we cond within that time man the contacts that

Oswald had with the Department

We got the passport file. We got the scority affoe ille. We got the permi

conular services fle which covered Mira. Owalts vian and the repetzlation

Joan: I think those three fles were the mies that we had. It may have been

there was a smaller fourth fle, but I thial those tire were the ton

Beneecentative Tom, What wold that smaller fourth file bet

Mr. Charma. I cun't remember. It win duplicates it it was anything. Oh, that

la rigbt we bad a visa file rod ua BCS ile so those were the four.

file, that is Special Comar Servlees, In the offoe, In the Bureau of Becurity

und Conmiar Afalre

Representative Mora. You got thi onder on or about is oclock the 228 ot

November?.

Mr. CHarma, The 22d6 you air.

Bepresentative Tor, And you lamed orders to have these files brought in,

or did you go and get the yourseles

Mr. ORATE. No.

Bepresentative Forn, Or what haypned?

State Dept: emploco

Mix. ORaTes I loned orders to bare them brought lo. Trated 1ea tryng

to think how we got then (Inuipt to Mr. Mrichy Did you go dowe and

get them! Mr. Kurlich and Mr.

Correnfeld, another of wry people, we worked

D

through the night on this, the three of us all together sui it mur bo thet the

bro of them went down to get them. I don't think we furt called over the lele

phone and wiked them to be brought un

. (Dimension off the zecord.)

Mr. Ostral Il l my recollection that me of there the rhtlemen, ethe

---

