# 104-10172-10350

## Page 1

104-10172-10350

Lesxiènio Fécrelire.

Chef de la Section consuleire

di l'Ambassado do l'URSS

diciani

luncilles Istiriele

Ariele torderieri

portelleen

ja Nina Volal!

belsinki

10.9.37.

/ a00000 amo, 80100l.0000

¡ángolo do dautore in menino.

edo 1.

---

## Page 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REDCAP/IVE TA-CE

SECRET

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA 201-150156

ADDI

OSPICE

AODBE88

Hamentle 48 A 28

MOWE A009288

As On carerona DOLOD, faa,

DOLUB, Q. Bad O0L0B, GreGares.

''''' 2nd Secy & Ch Consalar Sectior

TOrEA-2220

-Debrie 0a

I COME

os Lominter, 0b

wulbright

MEIOHT

#E 1 00#

PHOTO

crantee ta

ca. 185 lbe.

Hole 1935

HA1@ LOOK,

56

•оаг

black, very

for batrilong rall dressed with

bead from aida to side when tadang

-Co. 5°34"1 Blintentng, clean baven

-Uprainion.

ins Looks Ilk Draining Loty

peasant; black bair; straight, brushed

Foreality

06

Bobwatery-scs. 2924-25

13 ANS 25 OFA 2356

22

abort, stocky

BIRTHPLACE

Odessa or Kharkov

FAMILY

ife in Minard, fury attractiv

Nina Federovna

• 1927, 835. 5 Hor 56 (OPHA 2082). B. 24 Mor ?

i (on as):

22

DOCUMEN

Cal, 1a Bor Ariy during WII & ses ection in leninered & Moscoe - sas

vounded 6 tia, Bolo 1o lot foruigi assigment.

Hecht,

0b

PERSONALITY (Habita,

anoy. hobbles. 118o.

978., but bave hed no success. Appeared plemant to source, but after

bombat ruthless latervier with some flan nothers who were besting him

to allor retura as phals sons fron UseR, appeared quite start. Douree

thought subj van hard Counde, altbough be admired the material acoco

pliamenta of 03. Joela Bubj 1a very much a Bor Coudo aod 1e not

defectable. Very ploasant and jovial vita good sanse of tumor.

very sharp & viety.

то ва 140.

FEB $#

498

SECRET

2320

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA 201-150156°

# hand

DOLUB, Grigorty to.

NH8* A0A#E88

orried downess

MONE ADDRESS

TITLE

DATE GO ARGITAL

PHOTO

&+&%

DATE DP

FAMILY

DOCUMERTATION

& ANGUAGES

#locht

conta

a rosaron ants sport in ikting. Strong poverful bundant

piercing artifielal Blances, lo very excitablo, 1irtatious and the

I-lor-Itali type. Loves to ent and shakes his hond fron side to side

when bo talle. Conturention Imples that he la vall eduented and

novlodguable on dip business, Muralan and current eventa invalving th

Ban. His knowledge of Itie beyond WOR la mager. Tolle mmers ar

PERSONALITY (HI

viesed

498

SECRET

1 80 9

---

## Page 4

SECRET

"'s Replaced Into Testmorich snary, kom rIs.

Subj's face ma familiar. to sourco, vben given tbe pame sourco stated

DR-20. 1239

that there una a It, Cal. of thie Inat same in Che NGB.. Bource did not 26 Jul 5T

mor which diructorte be mu in - might be technica. section - but

PROIPPERZO

ine that he van a "fairly high boßa." source could not recall whether

a had ever seen subj so does not, mon if this 1e the da persoa

22

mPly Aus 57, suby called on VACcin/ll naked that that varn him 1i

O 8A-2072

ait. Of say sor official vure about to do png's son pinimal a he poulo

1 29 0c8 2.

01.

lou rant of ad deo presume that he 1a so povertel as to remove ostreial.

of his on country tha Mal? Il you are rently that powerful, no an

you anyway a whut are your roml dutses bere la Jal?" Bubj disturbed

1d not pursusatha question. (Sta Comment, Subj's question Internatis

1 Vor of DOORINo oper. Dylag to deter ine date of chat.

Weg for (ApPpIR-19 1dén.

CONTACTS SOUrCE INVitad tO Elve lectures on mith In UBSR. Boos after ..

receiving the invitation, be a vife vere in bur of Hele restaurnet, whe

Bubj and fris RAS, • Fini Coule, cane up to his table a introduces

themselves. Buby mentioned sourc a Intrent trip to UssR. Buby told

source to come to for Dab next day to met the Cultural Attache, who

could arringe to git source to USSR & back without cont. Source tavited

Buby and RAsiC to bin hon for dinner fallowing Sunday. Both accepted.

Subj pald entire bill. Wen source went sor lab next day mit yurly

VORONE A Subj, also SKRONTY. Vo lnvitod himself to dimes with Subj

at source'a bome. Bubj, VORONII & vives vent source'a for dinner,

bearing may presents.

RASKE did not come.. Bubj told source "this

RASIE 10 a meine." Polt that 1t necessary to use these I'inn Cordes

palitically but that they cannot be trusted.

27

Subj had contact y/Prof David

hecht (Fulbright), " Russian peaking

Cry. 2413

research scholas whose Intereat in 19th century Russia. Bacht, through

319 Арт 57

R1211ker (Ch/Pol Sec), mst Jane Richline ho obtained a report for lga.

Hecht reported that COLUB very down on the An Inb & Amrien. Wunted to

Jee CrIt,2282, CONIA-LTSe, CorT, 2813, which pridate the debriaring ar

darthur j. Lobater, (Debriefing ehanguo some of the pointe.)

ol VAsCINs/1) tavitod to a farewell lunch for Ivan Yefimovich ERONEY

(Anion RI8 ubo unad title co Consul in Fini at tines) 17 Dee 56. Also

present ins (fau) GOLUB, tho was Introduced as the new Consul. Aubj

SECRET

25/

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONTACTS - OCEALEd

1-9419

COTt 3000

3 Jun 58.

01(N/1 passed to station. OOLUs had recently couplained to Jobannes

VIOLATE that the funa DeCurIty polies vera Dos payas any atta to

OBeS OL BILIAN l AmerIcan espionags 1n Fal, edding tbat the dove

Dad info regarding lestera espionage in fiel A rould be elad to.

Maniah 18 to the necurity palice. DOuTs nald sous of the Western

canes vere all a come bri. Did not elaborate. Source did not say vast

TROLATION a rEply vis to COLIS."'/1) then anid 1t vould beboote AIs

ofticars in lala to be as caraful as ponible emuse 1t quite possible

security pallee vould rosive ordere to beep their eyes abarply peeled

for oper Involring. Minninh citisen. Pendleton briefed all sentor

ODEARL people.

ODUIT inn ould be bad reed a vurning fur days erlles

fron a friently Man offer that another ODUTY Offer had been been too

Megently driving a voltmagon v/dipl plates around freight jardo of ...

Felo: (M1A'10s COUNT's aDerferle factory a freight car marting

progann.) The CDON ann said lin faally and noticod flan polloomn

on the beat outaide his house bad recently begun to go to phone boota a

further develogmenta. Ol

• 34 Dee 57, WLATION/S told Station that Saby had Minited the Jin o

he Interior so decurity police having contacta vith Westerners. V/10

we told that 1t had no connection vith him, finl a irve country a

people had right to talk iith ary one tbey pleared. Min of Int asked

he exetly vast be ras driving at - Subj as evaaire d gave a vague

Don sagultur asser thica ture no hint as to what proof the forlots vere

talking about. itin of Int told DOLIA 18 Bor fort had any official

complnints to make be should wake then thra proper channell. When auled

1i be thought tbere vure any deeper aigniflounce to these Bor mabito,

O VARIATION/Ireplied that ho did not aspect the soriera to do anythin

more than drop these conversational hinto.

1%00

---

