# 104-10506-10026

## Page 1

T104-10506-10026

SECRET

June 1977

SUBJECT: Also Pedro MARGOLLES y Duenas (201-315161)

aka Aldo MARTINEZ Morales

1. DBF 95904 dated 8 Dec 61;

From to the FBI to the Secret Service, requesting lookout for

Aldo Pedro MARGOLIES y Duenas, son of Chief of Cuban National Police.

MARGOLLES reportedly attempting to enter the U.S. to meet with Cuban

agents and assassinate President Kennedy.

Memo to Al Cox from

dated 23 Jan 1962:

MARGOLLES and ARAGONES are known to have fanatical tendencies.

ARAGONES is one of CASTRO's right hand men and accompanies CASTRO in

all public appearances.

MARGOLLES and ARAGONES are known to have

generated plot to assassinate President of U.S.

WAVE 8793 (IN 13094) 18 Jan 1962:

Re photos of MARGOLLES and ARAGONES involved in plot.

DIRECTOR 38056 dated 27 Jan 62:

To most LAD Stations and Based.

"Have received info. from

secret service re plot assassinate President Kennedy generated by Aldo

Pedro MARGOLLES y Buenas and Emilio ARAGONES y Navarro. Confidential

source indicates plot in fact conceived and may be executed. Both

considered fanatics.

Advise whereabouts on continuing basis."

WAS 50/7, 29 Jan 62 Memo to Regional Cormissioner, Southeast

Region, Richmond, Va. From District Director Wash., D.C.

States that Raul DIAZ Arguelles, as Chief of Political Police

in Cuba, would be in complete charge of any activity contemplated by

MARGOLLES as set forth in SERO lookout dated 4 Dec. 61.

UFGA 15107 dated 8 April 1964:

Consolidation of information in WAVE files on Aldo Pedro

MARGOLLES Duenas.

Since Sept. 63 has been Vice Minister of Interio

finistry and previously was Director of Police. Believed to b

quite powerful in Ministry of Interior; therefore, leading us to believe

---

## Page 2

13-00000

(

- 2 -

that he is in constant contact with highest level personnel within

Cuban Government.

Brother-in-law of ARAGONES.

Considered be inpulsive

and almost cruel individual. Limited education; cunning and sly.

DIRECTOR 601011, 21 Sept 74:

MARGOLLES reportedly related to Emilio ARAGONES Navarro.

Capable of any crime which would serve CASTRO regime. Accused of

having killed many innocent farmers in Las Villas area. Entered

U.S. illegally November 1958, resided in Miami, voluntarily left U.S.

January 1959.

Researcher:

KGB

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SUBJECT:

3 Dec 61

D$#: 9590%

-

27 Jan

62

-

13 rel 62

SECRET

June 1977

Pedro MARGOLLES Duenas 201-315161

Ministry of Interior A-3

A report from informants of Honolulu FBI

office.

Report states that Pedro MARGOLLES

Duenas (201-315161) and Emilio ARAGONES

Navarro (201-274644) were attempting to

enter the U.S. to meet with CASTRO agents and

assassinate President Kennedy.

DIRECTOR 38056 OUT 91871, 27 Jan 62:

Into. re above alleged plot was cabled to L.A.

Stations and Bases requesting continued.

reporting until further notice re the where-

abouts of MARGOLLES and ARAGONES.

MARGOLLES entered U.S. illegally Nov 58.

Returned to Cuba voluntarily Jan 59. Considered

impulsive and cruel.

Reportedly son of Chief

of National Police.

As of 22 Feb 62 he

reportedly was living in Cienfuegos, Cuba.

As of Sept. 63 he was Vice Minister of Interior

Ministry.

Previously was Director of the Police.

In 64 was reported to be under the protection

of President DORTICOS. MARGOLLES and ARAGONES

are related.

Ministry of Interior File Enc1. 3_ to UFCA_ 3302:

13 Feb 62 Memo to Secret Service from Wm. H.

McClare.

Raul DIAZ Arguelles, poorly regarded,

was appointed Chief of Dept.

of Technical

Investigation Nov 59. Feb 62 he reportedly was

working with former U.S. gangsters who were

deported from the u.s.

Also reportedly affiliated

with narcotics traffic. Believed be in complete

charge of any activities contemplated by

MARGOLLES which involved plot to assassinate

Pres. of U.S.

A known terrorist, DIAZ is capanle

in use of explosive bombs and

automatic weapons.:

Reportedly was responsible for assassinations

Also believed

to have

directed assassinations in past from somewhere

in Mexico. Is good friend

of Rolando CUBELA.

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

