# 104-10515-10032

## Page 1

104-10515-10032

SECRET

26 February 1969

MEMCRANDUN FOR:

Chief, BI/RA

ATTENTION:

SUBISCT:

Name Check Request on NICHOLS, John M. (Gerrison Case)

Per your request of 19 February 1969, attached 18 a copy of a summar.

reporting the results of an OS records check on Dr. John M. NICHOLS.

666 =

Paul F

Gayucr

Chief, Security Research Start/oS

Att, as Stated

SEBRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

27 February 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Domestle Contact Service

SUBJECT

ATTENTION

:. Carrleon and the Kennedy Assaseinaton;

De. John M. Nichola

: Mr. George Musulin

1. Dr. John Marshall Nichola, a Univerally of

Kansas pathologler, has testified at the Clay Shaw Erial

that 'Photographie evidence of Preeident Kennedy'a

assassination was 'compatible' with the theory that the

fatal shot was fired froin the front."

z.

Dr. Nichola, born 28 March 1921 at Charleston,

Wes: Virginia, was employed by the Department of Pathology.

Medical College of Virginia, Richnond, Virginia, when

he was approved for contact use by the Ofilce of Security

In 1957.

He had juet returnod from a trip to Crechoslovakia

where he visited research inatituted and me with various

medieal men.. Office of Security records Indicate that the

Contact Divelon of Domestic Contact Service planned

to debrier Di. Nichole on this trip wich sclentific require-

menta relating to this ares on an ad hoc basie.

The

Information to be discused was classlited through

CONFIDENTIAL.

The office would appreciate any additonal.

Information that the Domestic Contact Service could pro-

vide regarding this proposed relatlonship with Dr. Nichols.

In particular, 'thie office le Interested in ascertaining

21-1

d""?

SECRET

EST$I 13S 896

---

## Page 3

STREET

whether or not contact was actually made with Dr. Nichola.

Il contaci was made, me are aleo Intereated In finding ou:

how long this contact was maintained and how many meeting

were held. We also request coples of my reporta for

which Dr. Nichole was the source.

CI/R&A

Distributon:

Orig. and 1 = DCS

• Garrioon ille

1 - R&A Chrono

SECRET

---

