# 104-10186-10186

## Page 1

104-10186-10186

HINFORMATIONE

EPORT

INFORM

HON REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Ta tao a le elo feing the alone leer i do felt air roll the eraid or to leaner a o, The.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS CI-316/00687-65

SUBJECT JulIo Damaso, VASQUEZ

DATE DISTR

11 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

RETURN TO CIA

DATE OF

INFO.

1965

Background Use Only

REFERENCES

PLACE & Washington,

DATE ACQ. January 1965

D. do Not Reproduce

CSCI-316/00715-64

8 September 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUACI GRADINGS ARE DEPINITIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by

the source and includes supplemental

informatdon from the records of this Ageney.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

first checking wiih this Agency.

5

4

3

2

working for a nickel

of the invasion.

Eventually VISQUEZ was caught and put in

Jail, remaining here for about four months.

Source met hin

again when source reported for duty with the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence

DGI) . I

Headquarters Comment

1. Although Subject's patronymic was first given as DAMASO,

verifled that VASQUEZ is the correct

patronymic.

Aside from the information forwarded

above referenced report, this Agency has no additional

pertinent information.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I entertant bages o

STATE

IDIA

I ARMY

I NAVY

I AIR

REP

CINCLANT CINCSO #

I&NS

Note: field distribution indicated by "''*".)

INSA

Xxx

TFBI 2

3

1

NEORMATION RERO RI

INFORMATION REPORT

OH/SA/EOB IL

L HEL 5R

HULSALMOBLLLWE

_CILLA

" CUREA

3 IE

1. HASH

_LX 1838

NO PROJECT (ASMUGEL)

CSCI-316/00687-65

WALSA/CL

BIDAY

11

TOTALTH: SA 8

(1). HE 1 (2). CIA. RID 1

LIAISON

IIDONDINATING

BES

51/288

1: 3 wa

1901-754605

4IBR

---

