# 104-10106-10398

## Page 1

104-10106-10398

FORM

3; 69

3014

USE

PREVIOUS

CABLE SEGRETAR LATI DISSEMINATION

PERSON/ UNPTENOTHEREPI ARIAT

& issued

*TEn SLOTTED

ACTIONCOPY

PER

12

BY:

DISSEM

ACTION UNIT

ACTUON NO.

129

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPYES

OROUP :

(When Filled In)

REFRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROPERTE

• INDEX:

DrES

• NO

CLASSIFY

TO cs

FILE

N0.

ROUTING AND/OR

INITIALS- SEEN BY

z

#032

X- REF

Cs

FILE

O FILE RID

DReTURN TO

FILE. VR. C/RI/SD, C/Eu/S

BRANCH

ACTION CHANGE

20-1

1613

STATION & NUMBER)

IN OPESTLA

(IN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS

BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM

(DIVISION

TO

:

(DIVISION)

BY

:

1/i.

(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

IN COORDINATION WITH :

(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• FORM

3;69

30J4

USE PREVIOUS

FOITIONS

82

CABLE SECRETARIAT: DISSEMINATION

gilà

ISSI FI-ED MESSAGE

TOTAL OOFIES

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

GROUP 1

XCLUDED THOM

OWNCRADING A

(When Filled In)

DICLABSIFICATIN

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMLRITED

• INDEX:

Dres

I NO

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS- SEEN BY

€

#032

BY:

— AT:

X- REF

TO CS FILE NO.

DISSEM BY

PER

J FILE RiO

"RETURN TO

ACTION

UNIT

CEC

ACTION

NO.

62 ofFILE. VR. C/RI/SD, C/CURIE

BRANCH

ACTION CHANGE

sol,

1/11.3

(STATION & NUMBER)

IN ORLES! A

(IN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS

BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM

(DIVISION)

TO

BY

(DIVISION)

116.

(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

IN COORDINATION WITH :

(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

SECRET

---

