# 104-10186-10104

## Page 1

104-10186-10104

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTay Cuba/Doninican Republic

SUNECT Jaime DURAN Hernando

• REPORT NO

DATE DISTE

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS C1-316/0236Q-64

• 1 December 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

fashington..

D. C.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE ACQ: 1964

FIELO REPORT NO

THIS DI UNEVALLATED INORMA!

GRADINOS

MEAT AA SHITA

SOURCE

A 'former Cuban 1S ofiscer who served With the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

Jaime DURA! Hernando Is known

personally by source

and ve identified by source frou official travel manifesta

and also from a photograph as a Dominican and a member of

3

As a member of the APCS, DURAN was originally

sent to Cuba to

secure a scholarship in

the Union of Sovlet

Socialist Republics (USSR).

lowever, source judges that

upon this scholarship not materializing.

was put into

the guerrilla warfare training progran instead.

belleves that DURAY was still in Cuba at the time he left. 3

Unwittingly, DURAN was used by a Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)

member, whose true name is allegedly Elpidio RUIZ (pseudonm

"Tiburon"), to deliver a nicrofilm message, concealed in a

match folder, to source in labana, with the comment that it

one of the members of the NPD.

The MPD does not

krow RUIZ Is a Cuban intelligence officer. DURAN traveled

to cuba by way of Jamaica and France.

(CONT. )

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

[STATE

REP CINCLANT CINCSO =

(Molo- fiold distribution indisared by "g'')

I oce/ BR

TIBT T

(ALSO SENT TO SANTO DOMINGO)

IN FORMATION REPORT

13 LES

I 01/2100

ACI /100/37.21111258

KH/SUCILL

BILIVE

- RIDIAS

191

TOTALAH/SAY (1),

85 1 (2), C1 6, RID 1, AH 11:9913009

-201131+26

INPORMATION REBORT

16-10

L1LX-1826

NO PROJECT (ANNUG/I)

CSCI-316/02360-64

CONTING ELSE AST.

INH/2/DR, BS: LDysal

lin draft CI

PORM NO

12 w.. !:

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1. DURAN was sub secrotary general of the APOJ.

3.

and TDCS 3/560,741.

In TDCS:314/04550-64, 01 27 October 1964, a usually rellable

Dominican source reported that while In Cuba DURAN had sever

months of military training.

DURAN returngd to the Dominican

Republic, by air, on 25 October 1964

from Curacao.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

