# 104-10110-10716

## Page 1

104-10110-10716

JIUNCI

8010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Chief, SRS

Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS

FROM

M. D. Stevens

SUBJECT:

CAIN, Richard S.

#272 141

DATE: 9 October 1967

.:!:

1. Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo:

Matt:

memorand son hit, oich and 25 May 29 eference to prove of Security.

memorandum dated 29 May 1967. The 5 June 1967 memorandum

enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago

Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with

the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee

Harvey OSWALD, et al."

2. Subject,

it is obvious, had been a source of information

regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President

Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee

held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard

CRILEY (#346 116). He also was the source of information regarding

the alleged attempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young

Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord-

ing to the Chicago office was "one of!

(SAS) leads

obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)

• The documents also indicated

that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated

by Eldon S. COHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS

Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not

CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK County

Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under

cover assignment which COHEN inferred involved tapping the tele-

phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other

political figures.

680U 1.

Excluted from aromatis

downgrading and

tech tsaification

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SF.CRET

3. During review of CAIN's Security file, I noted a message

regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned

a "Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessman in Mexico,"

who obviously had had contact of some kind with CAIN, as well as with

a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that

CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. II (Acopy of this memo-

randum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces

on CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard.

ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claim

he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The

Station was advised that he did have (or had had) a legitimate detective

laboratory in Chicago.

4. With referchce to Willard ANDREWS, Security indices contain

no recard. I beljeve the individual referred to is Wyllys ANDREWS,

(Edward) Wyllys ANDREWS IV, #2769, a former OSS/CIA employee who

has lived in Mexico for many years and has continued to have social con-

tacts with representatives; of this Agency in Mexico as well as with Agency

employees from Headquarters who visit him from time to time. ANDREWS,

like CAIN, was born in Chicago of parents who also were born in the general

area of Chicago.

- April 67

5. The firstime CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office

was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request

stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which

he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in

Chicago and Los Angeles.

He had also stated that his agency in Mexico

was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police

methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;

and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed

Central American country.

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being

deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles

b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official

(He had identification as an investigator for the

Mexican Treasury Office.)

C.

Violating his tourist permit by working at his

detective office and at the Mexican Treasury

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

7. Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS in September

1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked

to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain

Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On

10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished

much of the above information on CAIN.

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he

had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafia

in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information

as to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,

for what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were

in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25

May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN

since 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had

been the source of information. These had to do with anti Castro Cuban

activities, procurement of arms, etc.

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a

current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that

there be no further contact with him at this time.

10. The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains an

article titled "Brazen Empire of Organized Crime," in which it is

stated that Sam GIANCANA) Head of the Chicate Cola Nostral is " still

running things by retriote control from a hide-out in Mexico... where

aKa he poses as Riscardo SCALZETTLS The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA'E

erst while chauffeur and courier,

is more familiar to Chicagoans as

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently

a private investigator. "

1l. Eldon S. COHEN who is mentioned in paragraph 2 of this

memorandum as having evidenced an interest in CAIN during the guber-

natorial campaign of the now Senator (from Illinois) Charles H. PERCY,

#178329 and #EE-21773, is now PERCY's Executive Assistant. COHEN,

who became employed by PERCY in January 1964, following his resigna-

tion from CIA which was effective 31 December 1963, at the time he con-

tacted a representative of the Chicago Office of DCS regarding CAIN on

10 February 1964, did not indicate that he was employed by PERCY. He

said, rather, that he'd been asked by the "PERCY for Governor" people

to inquire as to CAIN's status.

169

3

SECRET

- ==...

---

## Page 4

ETZH

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September

articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst

while chauffeur and courier of Sam GLANCANA. The second of these

articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,

of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana

area.

M. D. Stevens

Attachments:

articles

MDS/cer

4

orrary

---

