# 104-10291-10019

## Page 1

104-10291-10019

SECRET - SECURITY INFORMARON

CONTRACT PORSCHNEL

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

RETURN FILE TO 5E:45

NOTICE:

This

is

an offfee of Personnel File and

stib jeet to '10

day limitation period. This file

has beon charged

10 09A66/2

and is due to ho

returned to

CONTACT

DIVISION, SE-6S

kes.,

x7841,

PERSONNEL

---

## Page 2

admi

Dear Mr.

Reference is made to your contrnct with the U. S. Goternmont

as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 Merch 1970,

as amendede

Effective 8 April 1979, paracraph four (4) entitled "Compensaton"

1-8

an nded by doleting the figure 837,270 as it appears therein and

substituting la lou thereos the figure 341, 270.

and on - d

1s aloo nodidled to provido that rubsequent

sumentation of your baute foe, based upon the peroentage increace

authorised U.%, Goverent ciploycon la tho anmuel Rectolative Per

Increason, vis be individually authorized by contract amendrient at

proprato timed as requented and centusted by the responsible

ment orfield, provided homered, that your total comense lon

under the are ph does not oned tre alad

a plaus

all arten tenmo and Conditions of the

contener, de amendo, demam in full

force cont

effectes

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ACHINISTRATIVE - INTEPIAL USE CALY

Dear

monted by deletero the facure 841x270 as it appears

etatuting in laou thereor the Pagure 300, 15%:

Alt other lose and condations of the contract, do

ruin forco and effecto

UNITED STATES COVERUTH

ACMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

1d-0d0d

SECRET

5 998

C1 321-79

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chiefy Contract Personnol Division

FROM:

id. H. Blee

Chie

, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH:

Chief, Career Management Staff

Manpover and Support Branch/Contráct

-SUBJEC

mendment to. Contract for.

of subicat

ragraph

enticted Canpensation

contract ten

rective

Naren. 1970%

amended,

It is hereby

and the

that the

Laure AD

ted, therein

270 be deletes

crease represents the percentage

increase:

(/ percent)

authorized US Government, employees in the annual Legislative

Pay increase effective 1 October 1979

2. All classified Secret

David H. Blee

CONCUR:

gee 79

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Date

CL BY

RVW 5 Oct 99 DRV D9C. I

SECRET

---

## Page 5

• ADMINIS

ATIVE - INTERU, USE ONLY

Dear

Reference is made, to your contract with the ünited States Goveshment ,

a Latese, tod by the central intelligence lyncy, effective 1 March 920,

fective & Baril 1979, paragraph four: (1) entitled "Carpensation"

ended by caleting the quie

637,270 as fit appears therein and by.

subst tenting an eu thereo stre

guzest 70.

Said paragraps to also.

not flea to proAce

that subse

tre perce,

Increase auth

enmene

contras crane

gustave

epropriate

quested,

Kir the responsible: Cavernment

Cotise seen seoul.

amensation under this paragues.

arent of che salary rabe pata at the top step of

GS-2535

in othes ters and conditions of the contract, as mended; remain tri

full force and effect.

CEVIRAL ININLIGENCE AGENCY

13/

contracting Officer

11 A9R.1979

Đã tẻ

11.1 APR 1979

Date

David I. Ble

12

A. *8 1979

Date

ADVINISTRLTIVE - INTERNAL, USE ONLY

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

29 MAR

CI 121-79

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

David H. Blee:

Chef,

Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH

chief

carpose career upport i Sa/Contract

Careet Management

SUBJECT

Amendment to Contract for

1: Act lon: Requested:

say as renucted chat, the contract

an Independent contractor

ber

Is. conpensation: from 537-, 270 to 5416270

per annum offective 8 April 19794

lackeround. In Septembor 1978

This $20,000 claim has become

aX-GOSESSION WICh

andis likely to affect negatively

his

relationship wren ure arency unless rosolved to his relative

satisfaction.

Attached for backaround information are

documents relating to Mr.

clạim.

3.

tfter careful consideration of the equities involve

in this casc it

is my belicf that sccurity considerations

dictate that we settle

claim in the following

manner

I will approve an increase

in hts annual parent by

54, 000 effective April 1979 (from $37,270 to $41, 270)-

Thereafter, his annual compensation would be increased each

given to US Government employees: (This

CE BY

RVW 26 Nat 99 DaV D9c.1

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

reaches the salary paid an employce in the

• step of CS-15 (currently $47, 500)

his annual compénsation

would be increased only as the pay for that step increases.

All other

amended, readin in fulf force and effect.

terms and conditions of said contract. as

All classified Secret

Dawel 9. Bles

Layla H: Blee:

At cachm

AS

CONCUR

O$ APR CAN

- Da te

Chief, Career Management Staff

APPROVED:

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Date:

2

S

E

CR E

---

## Page 8

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

Chief, counterintelligence Staff

PODONOR

•A.

Memo Dated 16 February 1970

From DC/Security Rescarch Staff

i.

From De/Sccurity Research Staf

Acknowtedgcmont

and Release, Forn

Dated 12-Jmly 1973

A carefut royler of the PDONOR fire Substantlates

the factathas thorc.vere. three-unequivocal.financtat commit-

ments made to PoleroR at

"the time

ot his detection in

February 1964

Thesc: three commltnents were

a.

He

would

be paid s25,000 for each of the two

years he cooperated in place:

Total $50,000.

•b..

He would receive $t0,000 for his part in

idéntitying William Vassal, a British

Admiralty employce as a KGB agent.

C;

Hc would rocêive $25,000 per year 'salary

from

the Agency,

The question at issue how is whether an additional

conmitment was also made to. PDDONOR to the effect that the

Agency would provide financial assistance to him

to purchase

à home:

According to PDDONOR;

priot to his defeecion inca conversation with his case officer,

Mr.

he stated.

"I will arrive with what thave

on:

my. back

no foof - no anything."

FDDOOR waS.

no

home:

the reply to

-be

provided.

As follows

"This: wil

be taken care of.

It will

This exchange

in

PEDONOR"s view,

constituted

DOC DERN 14 Fob-B0

DRY: 09c. 1

BY

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

what he believes

a coumitment on the part

to provide. him with

financial

assistance

of the

Agency

in the purchase of

a home.

A memorandum dated

16 February 1970, witten by

Bruce Solle describes this verbal exchange between PODONOR

(See Reference A).

In addition,

memorandum dated 14 August 2972 also written by Mr. Sollo

(Reference B) states that "Nosenko stated that prior to his

defection in Geneva,

discussed his future-with Bagley and

made three requests,

being:

=. Employment at $25,000 per year:

B: 850,000 in savings account:

Asststance in purchasing houses

According to Nosanko,

Bagleta day on two later; informed

thát his requests

lad been approved-and Nosenko-

considors this constituted a valid verbal contractio

FroM PDDONOR's Vienpoint therefore an additional

commitment,

quito separate and apart from the three listed

in

paragraph I was made to him.

that a

Consequently, he now argues

payment made to him in July 1970, in the anount of

$20,000

and which he used as a downpayment on a house, was

the fulfillnent of this additional commitment and not part

of

the $50,000 he was promised for his two years in place.

This despite the fact that in the 14 August 1972 memorandum

Solie statos in paragraph s

"Nosinko also

cong do chich ng databeen enchasin use tould be

considered as cancelling the matter of the 350,000.

4

What seems to have occurred is a change of position

on PDRONOR's part.

While previously acknowledging that

Reference B)

below listed payments only 530,000 should be applied against

the $50,000 commatment.

The July 1970 payment of $20,000

should be applied against a separate commitment to provide

assistance un purchasing a home.

2-

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

$2,000 in March 1964

$8,000 1n. May 1969

55,000 on l July 1920-

$20,000 on 1 July

1970

(According to

PDDONOR

payment

this

Should not be applied

against

the $50,000 commitment)

$15,000 on 12 July 1973

Thust

according to PDONORS reasonins $20,000

is still due him

as part of the original $50,000 commitment.

Several additionat noints, shouldabe noted. On. 2 July

1973 PEONOR signed an "Acknowledgment rand Releaser prepared

by the General Counsel in hich eDDoNoR releases and

forever

dischargesthe US. Covernment and the Asency from any Claim for

moncy pront sea

to him:

Preterence 0n

addis ton the issue,

of

the 20, 000 he says is still

owed him does: not, surface.

in?

the file

unt i Schtember 19780

14e ycars:

after his defection

The explanation of why this issue would arise

at this late

dato is not

clcar

from available records.

Attached are copies of those

documents which impact.

on this issue.

Because of the complexities

of this case I

recommend that we reguest.the Office of General Counsel to

review the entire case and provide a ruling on the legitimacy

Of PODONOR'S claim of

$20, 000

After such a ruling we can

discuss our future course of action.

7.

Ail classified Secret.

• в гротчуіа

Attachments:

AS

stated

S•ECRET

---

## Page 11

* SECRET:

OCC 79-02042

1 March 1979

MEMORANDUS FOR

FRON

SUBJECT

Chief; Counterintelligence Staff

John

RizzO

Assiatant General Counsel

Financial Commitments to PDDONOR/1

This 1a in response to yeus memorandum o.

20 February 197 nichstequeste our opinion concerning clAre

per gations to PeDONOR/ 1y cartormer hige fr

ranking

KeBox cer who detected to ths, countrys february

196 catter having:

cooperated, in place for there syloud two.

Years Based on, information contained in CT. Stoff tiles.

mented

those area vo du promises to PRoovoR/l at the time of tie

detections

he would be paid a total of 550,000 15250000

per annum) in consideration for his previoug:

tho years' service in placer

b)

he would receive a $10,000 payment for hig

part in identifying a certain KGB operative

the British government; and

c)

he would be placed under contract for an

indefinite period" after his defection at a

yearLy

salary of s25,000, with accompanying

provision for retfrement

and other benetits.

Your menorandum

secks our assistance in resolving the issue

of whether or not the Agency hao, as PDDONOR/1

asserts, any

officer at the time of hts defection eromising him the

Agency's Financtal assistance In his securing a restdence

in this country:

ORIGINAL CLBY _ 03577:9

O DECLE REVICH 28 ECh 99

EXT BYND 6 YRS BY

same

REASON_

3d (3).

ALL PORTIONS ARE CLASSIFIED SECRET

ATTACHMENT

---

## Page 12

I SECRET

2.

As you know, due to unforseen and extraordinary

factors which arose shortly after PDDONOR's defection.

three documented comnitments made to him as outlined

the

in the

previous paragraph. were

not fulfilled until some years after

mis detection. In this connection, one. tase indicates that

PEONORA did

not start

receiving an Ageney salary until

March: 1969, and that it was not

until six years later that

he began to be paid. at the previously promised rate et

$25,000 per arnum. Accordingly, in order to belatedly

satisty in full the commitments originary made to DONORy

In 1964, Jump-sum payments have been made to him on three

occasions in recent years with the approval of senior Agency

managenent Bered yo

these lump-sum payments consisted. of

Sy1900 tess taxes)

in November 1922.to coverscho

balance owed fordealery auring the pertod Aps 196 Ato

March 1969b: 315,000 in July 1973 to setole the remainder

in place overseas prion to his defectiong and c) $28:500-

(author tzod in April 1976 but evidently not pala until late

cast year) to cover the balance of his previously promised

as well as the $10.000 commitment originally made to FDDONOR/1;

prior to his February 1964 defection (see paragraph t(b)

above) for his role in identifying a certain kGB operative

in England.

As previously

tion

stated, the sole issue for considera-

at this point revolves around PDDONOR/l's rclatively:

recent assertion that CIA still owes him $20,000 as a result

of a vaguely worded oral comnitment made to him by a now-

retired

Agency officer in 1964 who promised that CIA would

provide housing

for IDDoNor/i in this country following, his

arrival. In analyzing eDdONOR/l's contentions In this

regard, we believe: for, the

following reasons that the details

surrounding CrA's July 1973 payment to him of $15, 000 assume

particular significance and do, in

fact,

firmly rule out any

further, outsfanding legal obligation to him with respect to

payments to cover PODONÖR/1's éventual purchase of a höme.

Of course, the key consideration involved is the fact that

the s15,000 payment was made following PDDONOR/1'6 execution

of a

quitclaim prepared by this office through which he

agreed to

"celease, and forever discharge.. the: Central;

Intelligence Agency: from any claim

for money promised to

him for, and/or at, the time of his defection, and from any

and all other clates in any form whatsoever arising out of

or in any way connected with his cooperation

with... CIA prior to the date of this document, 12 July

1973.*

SECHET P

---

## Page 13

14-00000

¿ SECRETA

Thus, the wording of the quitclaim is clearly and purpose-

fully unconditional and is

specifically intended to bar the

kind of belatedly raised claim which

PODONoR/lis raking now.

4.

In taking this position, we recognize that one

In rebuttal that

notwithstanding

the scemingly all-encompassing scope of the guitelain, a

further payment of $28,500 wag

in fact subseguently author

1zed

fOr PDDONOR/1 In April 1976.

However;

an internal OGC memorandum dated I April 1976 which concurred

in this additional $28/500 payment, the real purpose of the

12 July release was to settle

once and for all the josue of

the balance. of the $50.000 owed PRONOR fOE Wis two years

of in place cooperation pelor to his detections Accoreny Yo

Pance as intended to satlely othel pres

existing commitments to roonor end back sana owed

fOr 1964-1969 as

weitas the 50,000 promised tor ma role

this of ice

ble since to was outside, the Intended scope of

the guitclaim

and was being used to tuttift separate.

fully documented

promises of compensation made earlier to him.

5.

BY contrast:

at the

time that CIA made Ats July

1973

payment

to PDDONOR/1 In return;

for his quitclaim, the

avallable background materials contained in the files you

have provided us loave little doubt that the issue of compen

sation to cover his purchase of

a home was an Intrinsic part

of the calculations which led to the

decision to

3ИEл0г120:

the $15,000 payment to him at that time.

For Instance?

in

the 25 June 1973 memorandum

to Me. Colby which contained the

[commendation for the s15,a00 payment, the director ot

Security delineated some of the previous advances made to

PoDoNoR/1 in partial Batisfaction of the s50,000 owed to hin

for the

1962-64 period.

it was specifically noted in that

connection that

"Tadgainst thus 1S50,000l Sum in April-May

for desettlement in the private economy and Pscho

PDONOR/LL was given $8, 000 as financial assistance

a-new house and othel related-

expenses s

These mounts Plus

an addattonal

$2,000 which had bech prevtously

advanced were sustracted

from the original $50,000 commitment, thus lcading to the

final figure of

$5, 000 that was.

subsequently paid

in July 1973 and

for which he readily

signed

the quitclatt re

leasing CIA from any further Financial

Obligations

to him.:

Director of Security's memörändum went on tó indicate

The

that

PDDONOR/1 agreed*

with these calculations:

moreover PDDONOR/1's

acknowledgment that CIA had previously fulfilled its

SEGREES

3

---

## Page 14

A SECRET S

commitments to him regarding

a house

is more expiloitly

documented in a 14 August 1972 memorandum for the ffle from

the Deputy Chief, Security Research Group, which quotes

PDDONOR/I as saying-that he "considers that the assistance

in purchasing furniture, a house, etc. which he has been

glven since 1969 Shoula beconsidered as cancelling the

matter of the 550,000*• (Emphasis added):

Therefore,

a-of the above, it muss be coy

cluded: that. Contrary to PDONOR/l'g assertions, CIA has

long since fulfilled any promises which Agency representar

tives made to him prior to his defection concerning his

housing in this country: Further,

the available evidence

and,

accepted the fact, that these obi gattone shat boen

fully

metrat the time that he signed his guitoteim In Julysl9736

Thuar

since the terms and scoperas the quitclaim are uy

control lingon the claim which PDONOR/d la asserting Me

have determined that the Agency has no regat, oolgaton:

whatsoever

to pay trim the $20:000 which he seeke

AS a

final note;

this office rocognlies that

not.

withstonding the absence

of any legal obligations, the par-

ticularly sensitive status of PDDONOR/4 within CIA may

nevertheless give rise

to an understandable desira in some

quarters to make the $20.000 payment to him on security

and/or moral grounds.

Wẹ do not necessarily quarrel with

such a vrow.

nor do we mean to imply

that CIA Is Icgally

procluded from, in effect..

"waiving" the terms of the quit

claim

if it so chooses.

At the same time, it

must be remem-

bered that this office

Was

asked to prepare the guttclaim at

lssue. in 1973 preciscly In anticipation of a situation sich

as the one beföre us now.

it is respectfully submitted that

such documents will cease to have any future efficacy.or

individuals such as PoDONOR/I who

are ostensibly bound by them perceive a willingness on the

part of ciA to set

aside these carefully worded and legally

binding: documents whenever a claim

(no matter how, til

founded) is advanced.

In short, we höpe

and trust- that any

décision to pay PDDONOR/1 the $20,000 at issuc despito the

quitclaim and documented evidence

to the contrary with

based on truly compelling security or made coast derat best

ohn A. R

at SEGRET

---

## Page 15

CHINIS RATIVE - ITS

UNSEE ONLY

Dear

clarence la made to your contract with the U. B. Germent, a

epresented by the Central Intelligenco Agencil, effective 1 March 1970, a

aimendone

"It in the courán of this contract you are airected. to traval or

are suthor sed to theur ches empires, colburent of such magene

nue colora teach calcion of the content, as mined, teate to

cant nationce

VE - INTENTUL, USE ONLI

---

## Page 16

14-00000

ETSININN

Dear

Reference lo male do your contract with the unital states soroement.

representer by the cantral. Intelligence Agenuy, effective 1 Marchi 1970,

Elective 8 April 197%s parograph tour, (l) entitled, pompensation"

quo tituting In Mou thered the figure eno.

said paragroch to alco

patted to provide that abent mutation of your pante lead banes

union: the parcentege Increase

author trod-U:S: Goverrant erplorees in: the. an

agtalative. Pey Incroamun

official, prouded homever a that your toent: ompanation under thie peragraph

beg not exceed the egulvalent of the

A Man treat coltion de de cret, el conte reh to

CENTRAL INALLIODCS AGAIY

BY:

2601220 64lp0 22400,19/pod

q.

13

MINO ESO TURKINI - SALIVSININUN

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Attained da.

Mr. Bruce A, Bertotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference Is made to your contract with the United States Government, as

represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effoctive 3 October 1978 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" 1s

amended by deleting the figure $35,327 as it appears therein and by substituting

in lieu thereof the figure $37,270.

All other tems and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in

Pull force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERIMENT

contracting officer

6 are

10/12/78

Admivistative - literal Use On,

---

## Page 18

14-00000

ADMINISTRSONE - IREMAL USE CLA

Dear

Ratorenco le made to your contriot with the Uniterl Status Government, as

ripresented by the Contral Intelligunce Agency, offectiva 1 March 1970, as

amundado"

Refectivo 9 October L0T7 paragraph four (1) entitio) "Ompensation" Is

ammlen in deleting the figure $33,000 as 1t aproars therolid and by sunstituting

In leu theroof the figure $33,327. Sall paragrapi lo aloo molicled to provide

that minerent augmentation of your basic fee, hase uoon cost of-living

Are real a titties be et one at mene oft a pelato

Ait other tore and conditions of the contract, as amded, remain

in full force and effect.

325t703n

Bi i tri

CENTRAL INTELIGENCE: AGENCI

Frte

pac lat Contractl

15/

78.

VITASSI

251

B 31

1. 092 6A27

---

## Page 19

Diar L

Raference la mide to your contract with the tnitet Stätes Owerment, a

represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 2 March 1970, as

amin leid.

Effectiva 16 Abruary 1977 paragraph four (d) entltlad "Compensation"

18 mena by cather laing you a one-time, Jump sin tirable payment in tha

amount of $2, 100.

ALl other berms anl conditions of the contract, no amendorte remain

In full force and effect.

AL. INTELL

• - AGENCY

all contracting Offl

2 ger 28

Da ba

151

Gar. 28

Da ta

APPROVID:

8. 210

1678

Date

---

## Page 20

AGMINISIANTE - INTONCEL USE ONLY

Dear

Raference 13 male to your contract alth the Unfted States Coverrment, a

represented by the Central Intelligenca Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as

Refective 1 June 1977 parugraph. Elva (5) entitlod "allaner, Tearol, ani

other Expenseg" la amended by expanding its sope to authorize the cincurtent..

vluntary, travel of your dependent wilo, inclutiny the arperprtate rate o

par diem, ahen it ia datermind by the responsible doverment ottictal that

such travel my support and best serve eparational Interesta am opectives.

The externit and destinations of such depentent travel will be si destenated and

definel by such offlofal and, when in the course of such travel lt to Jetarina

as a mitter of operational necessity or is a matter essantlal to her health and

vell boing that she remin at sine partleilar plice in the course of such trave

while you continua on to pecttle googtaphitcal locations in fulfillment of

Covernment nêt ther. Infere or asemeny, Mastilly of hat hever Dabire

concerning her health and well being ilinhe freely electa-to indertake such

travel.

in full oron of ect

other terns and conditime of the contract, as meld, ramir

CENTRE INTELUIGONCE AREKY.

BY

Special entracting ollioni

ади 18

pate

WITNESS:

15/

2 аді

2:8

Date

APPROVED:

Date

---

## Page 21

OGC. 78 - 0606

1-31-15

SECRET

Bertotally, Bruce A.

30 January. 1978

ME GRANDUN: FOR: Chef, Countorintelllgence Staff

VIA:

FROM:

Offica of General Counsel, OliD; Attention: Mr. John Rizzo

Chlof, Contract Personnel Division

SUB LET

REFERENCE:

Contract Anendnent for I

onoranden from Chiot, Cl Staff, dated 20 December 1977

Referenced, menorandim portained to, a tornal roquest to amend

sub jot contract to proM de author fratan do to cite operato do get

(S) Paragraph Elve (S) of Subject's current contract.

anong other.

things, provided for

It is our opinion that the intent

hore was to provide authorization for expenditures for "Operational" purposos

no language boing goneral. and non-restrictive in saturo, it would follow

that aiy expenditure deemed by you, as the operating activity, to bo of an

operatlonal nature, and so authorized, would be within the framork of the

authortzation and that there would be no need to specifically identify and

addictanally authorize the icon anor its value. Accordingly no wetton

Is taken upon your request,

it boing presuned that you already have adequate

contractual authority.

/8;

+ 1481-399918

Concur:

Lai John A. Risso:

* "Offico of General Counsel

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - OGC/O6MLD

246 OP/CHD.

Date:

B FEB 1870

3ECRET

E2 IMPULT

CL. BY:

---

## Page 22

Dear

Ref. In unde to your contract sith the aû. Garlo, du represented by

the central Intelllience Agenes, effective 1 March 1970, as amendedlo

Erfoctivo 26 Doc, 1973 parnerapi five (5) catiuled "Allowances, Iravel,

sad other Expenses" 1n amended by the deletion of the last sentence to 1to--

entirets and by aubctituting in lleu thereor the following:

=. FIr-In tho course of thie contract you are directed to travel or are.

authorized to Inour other expenses, reinbursenent of auch expenres vill

"be made on: à commuted rate bacio, based on constructive cost, nite in the

In the washinston stropolitan area. This commuted rite sun will hot

be inconcent reduced by my operational entertalment that may be

provided to yose"

All other teria and conditiona as the contract, as emended, remati in full

force and vertect..

Signature.

+156+01522-094

......L--.r.n..

---

## Page 23

1d-0n0d

SECRET

26:98,

CI 194-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Persenael Division

FROM

David H. Blee

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH:

Chief, Career Munacement Staff

Manpower and Sapport Branch/Contract

SUBJECT

Contract. Amendrent for

Bruce A. BERTOTULLY

Action Requested: It is requested that the contract:

for Bruce A. BERIOTAL an Independent Contractor, be amended

by consing the est sentence, on caragraph so allowances

travels ands other expenses, to read as corrows:

"Ifth the course of this contract, you are directed

to meason of much cared in one prene

reimbur sement.of

commutedi

in the at to me rope can ant the connehile

commuted:

rate sum

will not be. reduced by any operational

entertainment that may be provided to you.

Background

Because of the current wording in

paragraph's of BERTOTALLY's contract, C/PCS/CSS/B&F believes

that a reduction in BERTOTALLY"S

commuted rate

entitlement

must be made when operational entertainmont (meals)

provided him by

his

casc officer.

are..

interpretation is

based on the present wording in

This

the contract stating that

rcimbursement

for expenses will be in

"substantial accordance

with CIA resulations:

Since unter CIA regulations

a re

duction in per dien

is effected when meals are provided by

the Government, C/PCS/CSS/B&F belteves the language of the

contract should be amended to permit operational

entertainment

(meals) torbe provided to Subject without resultant deduction

in his commuted rate reimbursement:

All other terms:

and conditions of the. contract

remain in full force and effect.

CONCUR:

David H. Blee

DERIVATIVE CL BY 0L31LS

-DERIVEDFROM D9C.1

C/CMS

SECRET

---

## Page 24

-Hey Bruce Ne Borestally

Dear Mi. Berto 1215

Ref, to kare to your contrass with the U.s. Gort., as represented

Dy the Central Inalligence Ageroy, effective 1 March 1910, an aended,

and with spectise reference to the mandment erfective 2 June IST1

portalntie to travel as thorizos in paragrapa re (S) entitled Movancose

Travel and other Bipenned,"

Pirective i June 29171 the lest sentence of

•cald parrerant. Moe sense of wadea pertatin to the importtion and the

mubjoctivet.of.banda.ra

tved inder the contractato tires, lu daleted in

Breets 2s deno 1910 dold & 10 further amended by expanding the

cope of perine low' (4) asia, Compensation to provide for ther

author, ratlon of a one time to eus payment in the angunt of triot.

All ather tens and confitions of the contract, an anended, remale ti

full force and esrect..

---

## Page 25

Por. Druco A. Bertotally

Dear He: Sertotally:

Roterance 1a made to your contract vich tho Unicod Starea Govornment, ad

representod by the Contral Intelleence Acency,

offective l March 1970. an

soundod, etch specifie reforence to the amendeont olfective I June 1977

pertainins to travol as authorieed in paracript live (5) anticlod "Allowanceo,

Travol and other Expansos. "

Eéloctive 1 June 1977. the last sentence of

sald paragraph, the senno of walch partajas

to the imposition and the aubjoctivaty

of funda recoivod under cho contreét to came, la delecad in 1ca entirely.

¿Cloctve 25 January 1978 nald contract to furthur mended by expandion

cha sappot paragraph four (4), patfelod: "Componse ton"' to provide for ene

author tatton of a eno-cino, lump mum neymans in the

mount of ,100.

All other rome ind condieton of the contracte an amended, remain la

Pull force and affect

Spectal Contracting Offtcer

- ITERNAL USE ONLY

1-30-78

---

## Page 26

SECRET

20 PAS

C1 659-77

MEMORANDÜM FORE

FROM;

THROUGH:

SUBJECT

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Bo

Hugh Tovại

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

Chief,

Canet Care supparent en/contract

Contract Amendment fot

Action Requestede It is requested

that the

contract

for

an Independent

Contractor,

amended ettoctivo as. of 1 January, 1978

to pay him.

$50.00 per month for the use of his private

living quarters as

an office: It is also requested that

contract be amonded to include the interest

payments on a car that he purchased

so that he could be

ready and available for work when we request him.

Background:

Khen CI Staff assumed responsibility

In July 1076, we noted that the Office of

Security had an inforsal arrangement by which it reimbursed

1$50.00 per month for the use of his private

quarters as

office space.

arrangement be incorporated into nou requested chat this

contract.

On ? February 1977 former Chief Cl Staff agreed to

reimburse

for the interest payments on a car

which he purchased so that he would be ready and available

for work when we

needed hin:

The monthly interest

charge as

of December 1977

is slightly. less than 139.00 and it is

. EZ IMPDET

CL

BY 012203

SECRET

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SECRET.

cxpocted to. decline.stcadily .as tho unputd. balance ls

amortised over tho next ino years

It

15+

therefore,

requested that

I contract be amendou to

also include this payment

M1s other terms and conditions of said contract,

as amended. remain In

full force and effect.

B. Hush Tovar.

CONCUR:

C/CMS/MSB/C

2 3 DEC 197:7

Dat'e

SECRET

---

## Page 28

14-00000

S

ECRET

CI 031-78

MEMORANDUM

FOR:

FROM

THROUGH

SUBJECT

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Hugh Tovar

Chief,

Counterintelligence Staff

Chief, Career Managenent Staff

Manpower and Support Branch/Contract

contract Amendment, for

Bruce As BERTOTALEY

Action Requisted:

che is requested that the contract

for Bruce

BERTOrALLY,

an Independent Contractor be

amonded retroactive to 1 Junc 1977 delceing the last sentenée

of paragraph 3,

concerning the taxability of operational

travel by his wife; of a previous amendment cffective I June

1977.

It is further requested that a one-time payment of

$1,404 to BERTOTALLY be authorized to offset the tax'he is

required to pay on the $3,100 which represents his wife!s

travel expenses on their last operational trip abroad, which

appcared on BERTOTALLY's W-? form for

1977 as additional

taxable income.

After CI Staff assumed responsibility:

by the field, he was asked if he would be willing to under-

täke occasional operational trios abroad

BERTOTALLY agreed, but was

adamant that he would only do so if the Agency would allow

hifs: wife

to accompany him not only for purposes of companion

ship but aiso. to

enhance his sccurity.

Because this was his

conartion to such overseas operational travel and because it

was felt her presence would contribute

to his good morale,

effectiveness in the performance of his mission, and also

preclude his possibly creating potentially embarrassing

incidents for us and the

host fiaison services; Chief,

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012208

SECRET

---

## Page 29

SECRET

CI Staff made a personal commitment to BERTOTALLY. that

he could indeed have his wife accompany him on any

operational trips abroad, if he chose to have her do so,

and that her travel expenses would be borne by the Agency.

It was understood that her

travel expenses would be limited

to the cost of her travel and per diem.:

subsequent to this agreement BERIOTALLY took three

separate trips abroad accompanied by his wife

trips. vouchers. Submitted

atter each trip, claiming theit Joint costs as operattonat.

expenses, were honored wichout question. However ollowing

thoir last joint trip abroad her travch expenses of 3/100:

wore

interpreted as additional taxable income

BERTOTADLY

considers this a violation of the commitment made to him

and

has demanded that the Agency pay him a sum equivalent to

tho additional Federal and state taxes

he will have to pay

as a result of our unilateral decision on this

matter.

Presently

he already have three separate trips abroad

planned

for

BERTOTALLY during 1978.

We are convinced that

unless we reimburse him for the $1,404 additional tax he

must pay for 1977

and assure him that his wife can accompany

him on future operational trips abroad at Agency expense

and without having

such

expenses. declared as additional in-

come,

he will refuse to go on any more trips abroad on our

behalf.

3.:

111 other

terms

and conditions of the contract

remain in

full force and effect.

B. Hugh Tovạr

CONCUR:

C/CMS/MSB/C

124 Jam 18

SECRET

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SECRET

Mr. Bruce A. Bortotally

Dear Mr. Bartotallys

Reference is made to vour contract with the United States Government, ne

reprosentedly the Contracting

Officer, affective 1 March 1970, an amended.

Effactive 9 October 1977 paragraph four entitled "Couponsation" 18

provide thit mibsequent ausmentation of your basic fee, based upón cont of-lving

Increnses; will be Individually authorised by contract mendrant at appropriace.

Cimen ne requested and certified by the responolble Goverment offletal.

All óther keras and conditions of the contract, as amended, romali

In full force and effect.

UNITED STATES COVENANT

tracting.

Ci. by:

RCB/Ng6

1-13.78

---

## Page 31

SECRET

5 %:

CI. 001-78

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Director of Personnel

ATTENTION:

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM.

Hugh Tovar

Chief, Counterinteltigence start

THROUGH

Chief,

Carcer Management Staft

Manpower and Support Branch/Contracts

SUBJECT

Contract Amendment for

Action Reuvested: It is requested. that the contract

for

an Independent Contractor,

be

amended retroacurve to. 9. October 1977 to increase his

compensation from $33,000 per annum to $35,327.

This tepre-

sents a.cost of living increaso of 7.05 per cent. (It is

further requested that a clause be included in

contract to

the effect that he is entitled to the equivalent

of any future cost-of-living increases granted to Agency

employees.)

Background:

was recruited by the Agency.

in Switzerland

in I96Z and promised $25,000 per year while

• He later defceted to this

• country:

In July 1976 responsibility for him was transferred

to be of great assistance to this Staff as

well as

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012208

SECRET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

The remuneration that he reccives from the Agency is his

family's sole means of support.

He was given cost-of-living

Inercases in the past and when Cl Staff assumed responsibility.

tor him

he was assured.by: the Chief, CI Staff that he would

continue

receive such increases in the future.

In carly

December 1977 he inquired why his pay did not already roftect

7.05 per cent increase given to Agency employees in October.

No believe it to be in the best interêsts of the Us Government

to honor all commitments made to him and to assure that he

continues to

identify himself positivoly with the Agency

All other terms and condicions

amended, remain In full

force:

and

of said contract, as

effect.

BALA

B: Hugh

Tovar

CONCUR:

C/CMS/MSB/C

2 Kar 22

Date.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 33

SECRET

14 November: 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chlef, Contract Personnel Diviston

FROM.

Chief: PES/CSS/B8F

SUBJECT

RÉFERENCE:

Contract Amendment - Bruce A: BERTOTALLY (P)

Our Memorandum of 29 June 1972

Our Memorandum of: 28 September 1977

In regards to referenced memorandums, we were telephonteally

adutsed by your office that subject's contract was being amended

to provide that the travel expenses of subject's wife represented

taxable compensation:

As we are nearing the end of the tax year,

It would be apprectated if the amendment could be provided in the

near future in order that these payments can be included in sub-

ject's earring's statements.

Thanks.

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY

---

## Page 34

SECRET

29 June 1977

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

Chiof, PCS/CSS/B6R

SUBJECT

Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

are in receipt 'or copy of

subject contract

amondment dated

27 June 19774

To administer the conditions

of this

mind:

amendment, there are two questions which come

a .

The

amendmen't provides. that travol of subject's

dependent wife may ho authorized "when it is

determined by th responsiblo Govornmont official

that such travel will support and best serve

operational interests and objectivòs."

Under the

provisions of HIR 22-2a (18) (now in the process of

amendment), TDi travel for dependents of an cmployeo

must be approved by a Deputy Diroctor.

Further,

under the OGG ruling 77-1204.

ThY travel for a

dependent "should not be authorized;

save the

Doputy Director's discretion.

It should be changed

to preclude any possible interpretation of which

would give rise to ThY junkets- for wives and depen

dents at Government expense."

While it is recognized

that subject

is in fact an Indopendent Contractor,

the entire

subject of dependents TDY travel is a

delicate issue, and becausc of this, we ask that

your office identify the level of the

"responsible

Government official"

vho must approve the operational

necessity travel of subject's wife..

SECRET

. it has the bad at lis te bus boid

---

## Page 35

SECRET

b.

Query..

if the TDY travel of subject"s wife

is in

fact properly approved,

not as an

operational.

necessity, but

for matters

"essentlal to her health".

do these payments in fact become taxablé income:

The

regulations define an Independent Contractor as

self-enployed individual who nay be paid a fee for

certain

services of products, and generally contracts

provide for reambursement for necessary operattonat

expenses:

We have no dirticulty in. certifying the

Mile 's

travel when it can be classified as an operational

necessity

However;

"as both reforences provide authority

ony: to

Deputy Directots to approve:

ThA: travel

this also gives rise as to what toval ot

authority

is required to authorize travel for a

dependent

wife to accompany her husband on a TDY. trip fas a matter

essential to her hoalth.*

It is requested that

we be

advised

of the: level of the "resonsible. Covernment

official" who

can approve such travel

further. 'as

subject's contract draws a line between the opefational

necessity

travel

and that travel essential to her health,

we would appreciate boing advised if

the non-operational

travel paynents for subject's wife represents taxable in-

come.

PCS/CSS/BEF

Distribution:

Oriz.

4. 1 - C/Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

=2-

---

## Page 36

14-00000

come

SECRET

28 September 1977

MENORANDUM FOR: Chef, Contract Personnel Division

FRON

entet, PES/CSS/BuF

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE

Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (S):

Our Memorandum of 29 June 1977

A response to our referenced memorandum (copy

attached) would be appreclated.

28 September 1.977

PCS/ESS/BRF/

Distridution:

Orig•

CPD

82F

files

SECRET

E2

IMPDET EL

BY

---

## Page 37

-jort. 1977

---

## Page 38

Rr. Bruce A. Bertotally

Dear Ar. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the "nited States Government, as

represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 March 1970..

Effective 1 June 1977 paragraph five (5) entitled "Allerances, Travel and

other Expenses" is amended by expanding its scope to authorize the concurrent,

voluntary, travel of your dependent wife, Including the appropriate rate of

per diem. when 1t Is determined by the responsible Government official that

such travel will support and best serve operational Interests and oblectives.

The extent and destinations of such dependent travel will be as desionated and

defined by such official and, when in the course of such travel it is determined

as a matter of operational

necessity or as a matter essential to her health

and well being that she remain at some particular place in the course of such.

travel while you continue on to specific geographical locattons in fulftllment

of operational missions, continuation of, her pen diem will be authorized for

such perlods.

AlT montes. advanced or reimbursed you hereunder by the Governs

ment and for the purposes herefo Indicated are determined to be additional

income to you and as such considered to be taxable for federal incone tax

purposes:

It is also understood and agreed by all concerned. and 1s herein so.

the ters of this agreement.

Government neither Inters or assumes any Hability of, whatsoever nature

conceming her health and well botng..ff she freely elects to undertake such

All other terns and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain In

full force and effect.

• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

10/

BY

Contracting Officer

E2IMPDET -

CL BY:

05.401

40358

10/17/77

---

## Page 39

Seene!

17 October 1977

MEHORANDUM FOR: Chief PCS/CSS/B&F

FROM:

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

DC/CPD:

: Contract amended Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Your memorandum, sublect as above, dated 29 June 1977

Your referenced memorandum ratsed two baste questions in regan

to an amendmentzeffected to the contract of Bruce. Bertotally.

.To.

determine the answers a meeting was held:6. October 1977 with discuss on

and deciston by those presents

ISSA/DEA: John Rizzo For

the General. Counsel

Lfor CPD:

In subparagraph (a) öf your memorandum you requested identification

of the level of the responstole Government offictar who must approve the

operational necessity travel of subject's wife.. The Chief Cl Stafe was

so Identified.

Subparagraph (b) basically related to the taxability or non taxability

o9, funds made available and relating to the dependent wife's travel.

was the consensus and agreement of all present that all such funds should

be considered as additional compensation and taxable.

E2IMPDET

CL BY:

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET

28 September 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

Chtef. PCS/CSS/BUF

SÜBJECT.

REFERENCE

Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (S)

Our Memorandum of 29 June 1977

A response to our referenced memorandum (copy

attached) would be appreciated.

28 September 1977

PCS/CSS/B&FA

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY

---

## Page 41

SECRET

:29 June 1977

NEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

Chief, Contract Porsonnol Division

Chief, PCS/CSS/BGF

SUBJECT

Contract Amendment- Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

1." He are

in reccipt of a copy of subject contract

amendment dated 27

June 1977 To administer the conditions

of this amendment, there are two questions which come

The, amendment provides,

dependent wite may be authorized when

that travel of subject's

it is

dotermined by the responsible Government official

that such travel will support ánd best serve

operational interests and objectives.". Under the

provisions of HIR 22-23 (18)

now in the process of

amendment), TDY travel for dependents of an employee

must be

Director

Further,

travel for a

depéndent "should not be authorized, save the

Deputy Director's discretion. It should be changed

to preclude any possible interpretation of which

would give rise to TDY junkets for wives and depen-

dents at Government expense."

While it is rccognized

that

subject is in fact an Independent Contractor,

the entire subject of dependents TDY, travel

is a

delicate issue,

and because of this, we ask that

your office. identify the level of the

"responsible.

Government official!! who must

approve the

operational

necessity travel of subject's

wite.

SECRET

LUNDORT EL DONE

---

## Page 42

14-00000

b.

Query, if the TDY travel of subject's wife

is in

fact properly approved,

not as an operational

necessity, but for matters "essential to her health"

do these payments in fact become taxable income. The

regulations define an Independent Contractor

as. &::

self-employed individual who may be paid a fee for

certain

services

or.products, and generally contracts

provide for reimbursement for necessary operational

expenses

We have no difficulty in certifying the

wife's travel when it can be classified as an operational

necessity.

However, as both references provide authority

only to Deputy Directors to approve dependent operational

this also gives rise as to what level of

authority is required to muchorize travel for a dependent

kito to accompany her husband on a TDY. trip "as a matter

" It is requested that we be

the "resonsible Cavernmont

official"'

who can approve

such

travel. Further; as

subject's contract draws a line between the opérationat

necessity travel and that travol essentral to her health,

we would approciato being advised if the non operational

travel payments for subject's wife represents taxable in-

còme..

PCS/CSS/B&F

Distribution:

Orig.

& I - C/Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

2

1 2 IMPDET CLE

---

## Page 43

22 more

Ct 575-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

B•

Hugh Tovar

Chiof, Countorintelligence Staff

SUBJECT

menchent to contract for

TUCe A. BERTOTAL C

Action Requestod:

It is requested that

parasraph five. (5) citiciod "Alowances, Travel and other-

expenses of Bruce A: BUKIOTALly's contract dated L March 1970,

as anended, be further amonded offective i June 1917 to permit

his wife to accompany him on

travel

abroad.

2.

Background:

As an indopendent contractor Bruco A.

BERTOTALLY'S

concract makos no provision for his wife to

accompany him when traveling abroad at

our request.

. This

amendment will make such travel possible when at the option

and dircction of the Contral Intclligence Agency it is

believed that such travel wlll materially inprové his cover

and security and substantially contribute to the performance

of his mission.

The rcquested change in paragraph five (5)

should in no way

obligato BERTOTALLY's wife to accompany her

husband on travel abroad nor does it assume su). liability if

she frecly clects to mako such travel.

All other torms and conditions"

of the contract remain

in full force and clfect.

B.

EZ INPDET

CL. BY 019359

SECRET

---

## Page 44

SECRET

06.4510

20/12755.93

Mr. Bruce A. Bertotally

Dont Hs. Bertorallys

Rafarance 1a mado to your contract with tho inited State, Coverint, da

roprosinted by the Contracting Officar, affectivall March 1970.

Pilactiro 1 June 1977 paragraya five (5) rutitlad "Allovencos,

Traval and other ispensos" in anended by expanding ice acopa to suthorite

the concurrent, voluntary, traval of your depenient wife, tacluding the

approptinto rate of per dien, when 1t la daterulned by the reaponalble

Covermint official that such travel will nupport and beat serve operational

intereats and oblactua

The extend and destination of puch dependent

travel ull bo an denignated and defined by nich official end, shea to tha

course of such travel it la deterioed is i mattor of operationil noceanity

or an a maccar conenttal to bor beaich and oll botag chat she remote it don

particular placo to the course of such travel, vile you contime on to

polite geographer, Lococione multiment of oporation astons,

concimncion of har mi dion unit be aithorimed for such pertode.

Coverinat

natura concertins

Ait other cera and conditions of tha contract, as mended, remata in

full force and affect,

UNITED STATES COTERUNENI

10/

Contracting Officer

ELLIPDET

Ci: by: 063837

SECRET

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SECRET

Mi. Bruce A: Bertotally

Dear Mi. Bertotally:

Roference is mado to your contract with the United Statos Government,

as reprosented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective l March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1975, said contract is amended by revising the first

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation"' to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Centräl Intelligence Agency

at the rate of twenty-five thousand, two hundred fifty dollars.

($25, 250) per year."

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and

effect.

CENT

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Special Contacting Officer

EPTED:

Bruce

WITNESS:

Bertotally

APPROVED:

ICROFILMED

GULY

EZIMPDET

CL by:

SECRET

1748

---

## Page 46

1d-0d0d

Dear!

Reference is made to your contract with the United States

government,

as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency,

•ffective 1 March 1970.

Effective I Narch 1976, said contract is amended by revising

tho first

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation"

rend as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence

Agency at the rate of Twenty-Six Thousand Five Hundred

Thirteen Dollars ($26,513) per yéar."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in

full force and iffect..

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY :

BY

Specfax Contracting

officer

ACCEPTED:

tyr: 6 5, 1972

.. Date

WITNESS:

seal 1926

APPROVED:

201l,26

certlled to be a true copy of the sigred original which 1s on file in the

Office of Security''

Chief,

Eudget and Fiscal Br

Office.of Security

MICROFILMED

1977

SECRET

---

## Page 47

ADENIS TRATIVE

INTERBAL USE CNLY

Mr. Bruce A.. BERTOTALLY :

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is sade to your contract with the Vaited States Government, an

represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, Ag

amended.

Effective I October 1976, said contract 19 amended by revising the flist

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as followg:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate

of Twenty-Bight Thousand One Huadred and Three dollars ($29,103.00) per year,"

All other ters and conditions of said contract, as amended remain In

full force and effect.

Please ichaowledge by itsuing ly the space provided below.

CENTRAL INTELLIGEVER AGENCE

12.998

spacial Contracting ofester

• ACCEFTED:

Is/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

a1ol, dontact Pitonnol Diviston

Detober: 12. 1976

Date.

WITNESS:

Gellu0/976

APPROVED:

MICRCILMED

JULY 1977

Date

Certified

to be a true copy of the signed original which is

file in Ct Staff.

/ASSINISTRATIVE

ETERNAL USE ONLY →

39/16

Personnel OFficer

CI Staff

---

## Page 48

ACMISTRATIKE

INTERNAL ERE ONLY

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

keference is made to your

contract with the United States Government, as

represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 December 1976 said contract is amended by deleting the figures

$12.50 and $603.52 as they appear in subparagraph (n) of paragraph six (6)

entitled "Negotiated Benefits" and by substituting in lieu thereof the figures

$18.75 and $900.04 respeCtively•

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and

effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Special Contracting Officér.

ACCEPTED:

Ist. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

WITNESS:

9. и 1976%

APPROVER:

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is

in CI Staff:

12/14/16

Porsonned officer

MICROFILMED

JULY

and a de

1973

AOMSTMATIVE

TARMII USE ONLY

Read 12115146.

---

## Page 49

14-00000

Bruce A. BLKTOTN.LY

-Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Coverinal. as

reprevented by the Contracting Officer, effcctive l March 1970, as amended.

Effective 16 February 1977 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensati

1s amended by authorizing you a one-time, lump sun, taxable payment la

the amount of $2,100.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, female

In full force and effect.

UNITED STATES COVERNHENT

BY

Certified

I to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in

Ci Staff.

MICROF ILNED

•4966

Personned Officer

23 Siblike, 1777.

• ASTRATINE

BITE 22 ISE ONLY -

---

## Page 50

14-00000

ADIDISMATNE

INTERIAL CSE ONLY

Bruce A. BEKTOTALLY

Deur Mr. BERTOTALLY

Sffective 1 March 1974-

said contract in anended by rovising the first

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You-will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the

of Thirty-three stousand dollars ($33,000) per year."

A1l other teres and conditions of sald contract, as anended renata In

full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by igning in the space provided below.

Bela ali one inton ener

Spectal Concracting officer

ACCEPTED:

May 3,1927

Date

WETNESS:

1977

APPROVED:

MICROFILMED

1277

Date

Certified to hs a true copy of the sigried orizinal which is on füle in

AUMINISTRATINE Personnel Officer

INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 51

"•лаза нім ма

Mr: BrUCe A, BERTOTALLY DA!

¡Dear Mr. Bertotally:.

Reference is made lo your contract with the United Statee Government,

as represented by die Central Intelligence Ageney, effective I March 1970.

Effective | March 1973 sair contract is amended by revising the

firat sentence of paragraph four (%) entitled "Compcasation" lo read as

•follows:

You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence

Agcncy at the rate of Twent;-Two Thousand Two Hundred

Fifty Dollars ($22, 250) per year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force

and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

As Represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By:

Contracting Offleer

ACCEPTED:

18/ Bruco A. DERTOTALLY

WITNESS:

/3./ Bruce I, Solie

Date: insol 16, 1523

Date: 16 March 1973

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office

of Security.:

20M45

Chief, Dudget and Fiscal Branch

Office of Security

SIONET

EZIMPDET

CLby: 026715

---

## Page 52

Мг.

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

064010

Dear. Mr. BERTOTALLY:

10/71

Reference in made to your contract with the United States Government,

represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, cilectivo l Marck 1970.

Ellective l March 1974, said contract is amonded by revising the firut

sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as followe:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency

at the rate of Twenty-Three Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars

($23, 750) per year. "

All other termis and conditiona of said contract remala in full force and

effect.

Please acknowledge.by signing in the space provided below.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENGE AGENCY

M

1/75

ACCEPTED:

/s/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

benig. 9, 1374

Date

WITNESS:

rina11414

Date

APPROVED:

Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which. is op

file in the Office of Security:

ELIMPDET

CL by: 063837

CUTT

Chief,

Budget

and Fiscal Branch

Oftice of Security

SEGRET

---

## Page 53

14-00000

RONOUNG COMPONINT

PERSONAL DATA

CURRINT PCS POST

AELATION INS

I SPOUSE URDER CONTRACI ER DIMONIO DE MOIACT

MIMICTINA DATE DE COVER

COVER DATA

TCASA CORCER

Bruce L. Solle

EMPFI CABOUT STATUS

PECTIVE DATI

Independent Contractor

1.1 March 1969

FUTURE PCS POST (EARICT DATIO

Washington, D. C.

BRATE CP DIRTH

CITIZENSPOS

10392

ENTENCE

7682

106. 9226

CITIZ FAINS

ALlen

DATE OR BOTH

RESCH WITH SUBMET, I9 NOT. WITNE

TU$

I YES, PROVIDE PEUDONYA

OCLAL. SECURITY TA!

MONONICIAS COVER

PROPASTANY

Davis

CONIA PACINTY CAVRIÇNTS

ALLOWANCI

WWERLY

HONT ONLY

TYPE OF PAR: DOCUPIENPATICIN TO A MISÚND AT COVER

WOFAET DATA.

PAYMINT OF

COMPINSATION:

HEADQUARTERS

WOMACT TO MPORT

ENgIAS

INCOLD

MISED PACHI

CCOUNT 8

INGOLD

DEVISIO PACITY

I SUEUET IS UNDIA MONOPACIAL COVER CONSULTATION WTH THE COVLAT TAX COMMITTLE IS MIQUIRLO

A TAX-ASCESCAUNT

Not Applicable

COMMENTS

TUNe SiOr AS AUGNIO) BY THE CONCAT TAX ECMMITIE

#Prior to preparing Fora, call

X5345, Por address

- Incone and social security taxes will bo withheld.

O/SEx will handle flilog of state estimated tax returns.

APPROVAL

AUTHENTI

DEY 313 a use priviap

DATE

6/25/69

Bruce b. Solte

IGNET UNRE. TO OFFICE OF PINANCE, COPY-TO CENTRAL 'ÉOVIA; COPY TO ARE

SECRET

SECRET

NOTE: DEFACH:THIS PORTION OF FORM AND DISTRIBUTE SEPARATELY

PROCECURES

ADDISS OR RECORD (N US)

* Bee above

SOCLAL SECURITY NO.

577-74-5127

ADORESS (FerTiga)

FOX 313A USE PREVIOUS EOMONS

DISTRIDUTION, SIGHED ORIC TO ORACE OF FEMANCE.

COPY TO CENTRAL COVIA, COAT TO PRE

SECRET

Nº

10392

OUSES SOCIAL LICLAMY NO

---

## Page 54

Emp! A

Per your request,

the following de. a breakdown of additional retroactive

salary for the perlod 1 March -J1 May 1977. This will be Included with normal

salary check for the month of June.

Croas

1,224.27

Fica

$20.40

Fedtax

401.10

SEx

85.4060

Net

717.33

Gros

2,750.00

Now normal salary effective 1-30 June 1977 18 as follons.

Fica

Tedtax

608.07

_Stx

170.08

Hosp

18.75

*Pca Max reached for taix year; Stoppod offective 1. June 1977

Met

1953.10

MICROFILMED

JULY 1977

---

## Page 55

19074384535A

REPLY-REGRETTED

DATE

SPEED LETTER

YES

LETTEN

_3 Max 1925

T0 : Chiof, C&TD/OF

FROM:

OS/ BGF

4E71 Hqs

ATIN: SpECIal PaYrOll Ops

SUBJECT: Bruce A. BERTOTALLY 1064010 - Independent Contractor

Attached is an amendment to Subject's contract increasing

has compensation from $23,750 to $25.250 per annum effoctive

1 March 1975,

Withholding. of

_state tax should

be increased from S12S torsi30 per month concurrent with

the

offective date of this amondment.

I trust it is not too jate

to include the increase plus adjustment for March with hiss

April pay:

Your

assistance: is appreciated

as alvays.

REPLY

He the

1838

USE

PRETION%

SD:T10H2

HETURN TO ORIGINATOR

---

## Page 56

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Mr. BERTOTALLY (P)

1S!

Bruce

---

## Page 57

SECRET

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Central Intolligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1971 said contract is amended by revising the

first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as

followa::

"You will be compensatod by the Central Intelligence

Agency at the rate of Nineteen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars

(19,500.00) per year:"

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force

and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DOC. MICRO, SER.

As Represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

MICROFILMED

Contracting Öfficer

ACCEPTED:

/S/ Bruce A. BERTÖTALLY

WITNESS:

is Bruce L. Solie

Date: 12 February 1971

Date: 12 February 1971

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the

Office of Security.

ivisfi

Chief,

Budget and Fiscal Branch

Orrect security

6a796-: 10% 241

---

## Page 58

Me. Bruco A. BERTOTALLY. S03

Dear. Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government;

as sopresented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective l March 1970,

as amended.

Effective I March 1972 said contract, as amended, is further amended

as set forth below:

"(a) The first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "COM-

PENSATION" is revised to read as followa:

"You will be compensatod by the CIA at the rato of

Twenty-one Thousand Dollars ($21, 000) per ycar."

(b) Sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph six (6) entitled

"'NEGOTIATED BENEFITS" is deleted, and in lieu thereof

the following is substituted:

"6(a): You presently have a private health insurance

plan for yourself and your wife. It is understood and agreed

that you will bear a portion of the total premium cost of said

plan; this organization will bear the remainder. Your portion

Is herein established at $12. 50 por month and will be deducted

from contraétual paymente due you. The total annual premium

coat of said plan lo presently $603.52. If required, the.

Government's portion may be paid yearly, in advance."

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended, remain

in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

As Represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By:

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

/S/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY "

Date:

WITNESS:

/S/ Bruce. L. Solic

Date: Fcbruary 29, 1972

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office

of Security.

DOC. MICRO. SER.

an miner

MICROFILMED

Chiel, Budgek and Fiscal Branch

Office of Security

---

## Page 59

SCCHET

Mr. BruceA, BERTOTALLY (P)

Deaf:

BERTOTALLY:

Reference la made to your contract with the UNITED STATES

GOVERNMENT, as soprevented by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

ellective l March 1969, Ellective ! March 1970 said contract is herein

terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and In lieu thereof

the following agreement le substituted.

The UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, as represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLGENCE AGENCY, hereby contracts with you under

the following forma and conditions:

L STATUS: Your legal tatuù under this contract la that of an

ladependent coatractor or consulate You are not considered an employee

of the UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT by virtue of thie contract. You

witi be required to bold yoursell vallablo at all times to favill raqueste

made of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY O% to respond to

tasks roguented of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

YOu

or stas la other tiful employment or occopation unti

ived from the CENTRAL ITE LLIGENCE, AGENCY.

Inatructi

hereo, a

beroof.

god tenou pursuant o til Contract and with festhe torm

C bindtog upon you ag 1l loclyded in the wettten, tarm.

2 COMMUNCATION: to ell Folatlonships with the CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY you will accept requests, tasks and relevant

Instructions from an individual hereloatter referred to as the "Authorized

Government Represent live. " Ho will be fully nuthorized to discues

mattory with you relating to your responsibillies under this contract

including, bat not limitod to, cover arrangements, place of asalgement.

conditions of work or any other matters relating to your relationablp with

the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY..

COVER AND SECUKITY. In the performance of your

responsibilities hereunder, apropriate arrangements will be made

regarding cover and general gecurity conditlong:

You may be reguired

to execute certain documents in the course of establishing cover

arrangements but it is to be expressly uoderstood that such documents are

solely for the purpose of cover and security and confer no additional

agreement.

In connection with cover and decurity you will be provlded

from time to time opecific Instructions by the Authorized Government

Representative and you will bo required to adhere precliely to such

instructions

MICROFILMED

DOC. MICRO. SER:

SECRET,

C30s7:

Escood can submaro

intellicasica

---

## Page 60

To do bad li do e

COSIPENSATION.:

You will be compensated by the CENTANL

INTELLIGENGS GENG? at the sate of Eightee, Thounand Elve Hundred

Dollars ($19:502. 00f per year.. Pryient of this compensation shall be

monthly in accordance with arrangements acceptable to the quiborized

Government Representative.

The sum is subject to Federal locome taxes

and to such'locome tax lawa no are splicable to your place of residence.

Additionally, ebla compongation do subject to FICA faxes.

The current

rates and method of payment will be in accordance with applicable laws and

the security instructione lasued by the Authorized Government Representative.

Paynent of all faxes and preparallon of neceusary tax returns are your

persond obligation and responsibility but in accord with approprate security

Instructions which will be furniahed by the Authorized Goveroment

Representattve.

ALLOWANCES,

DAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES. I, la the

course of fulles your co pond butties under thip asceement. monetary

How ances"

would be parab

GOVERNMENT rules and regulations, you will be paid such monetary

Nowanese ta subatantial accordance with those lawn and regulatione.

It, In the courbo of the congact, you no directed to travel of aro.

wuthorized to lacur other on

s0ed, salmbur oment for e penies wilbe

made by boCENTRAL IN

TELLICENCE AGENG Doubatanstel accordance

MS apPuCablo CENTRAL NTELLIGENCE NGENCY cosulations

6. NEGOTIATED DE

yourself and your wito patd until late Decamber 1970., Prior to

the expiration dato of the current policy the CENTRAL,

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY has the option of prying premlure

on the current polley untll I March 1972 or enrolling you in a:

hoalth Insurance program for elected contract ladividunle

of the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY aubject to

all the terms and conditions of that program.

INTELLIGENGE AGENCY will pay the premium on elther

Insurance coverage unfit March 1972. However, any new

contract will Include an appropriate clause providing that tols

orsenisation will bear a portion of the fotal premlum cont of

any health lourance and you will beat the romalador.

The CENTRAL INTCLLIGENCE AGENCY will endeavor

to arrange for you to secure a term We induranco policy with

a face value of $15, 000. 00: This policy contals no additional

aceldental death benefita. The premiuma for the policy wr

be your personal responstbility. The current premium charge

to $12. 00 per month.

MICROFILMED

It'L: ^ 1470

DOC. MICRO, SER.

SECRET:

6a4-2099r9e

---

## Page 61

14-00000

Go I! Subject to the prloritles of work you are heroin

withortzed twenty-one.(21).workdays vacation with.pay.ger

contrace year to be taken only at times aad places approved

Lo advance by the Authorlaed Government Representative:

Vacation time la not accruable and will nos be carpled over

from year to year. Payment for unused vacation time will

not be authorized.

(2) If Incappeltated for work due to illness, injury

and the like, your compensatlon may be contiaued for periods

not to exceed a total of thirteen (13) working days per contract

year.

Porlodo of abaence in excasa of three (3) consecutive

diya will require a doctor's certificate.

tke vacatlos time,

this benelit in not accruablé and will not be carrled over from

year to year.

• Cash payment in lleu of this beneflt will not bo

authorized.

SECRECY OBLIGATION: You willbe required to keep forever

secret thin agregmont and all laformation which you may oblate by reason

hereot (untend relented ln writer by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY trom euch ebligation), ich full knowledge that violation of such

secrecy may dubject you to clumine prosecutien under the coptonage lan

nded,

ood other epplicable la and regulatione. Your relationship

CENTRALINTELLIGENCE AGENOT ONC

thila contract must bo

579S pen

nox discoeu any tapectol thie rolations bip and

• con

Repre

erson ster

Then ie Authorland Government

aird or

uch other perion as ho way epeellically approve.

& SUNAUTHORIZED COMMITMENTS: No promiece of

commitments pertating to righter privilagon, or benonts other than thong

exprosily stipulated in writing ta tobs agreement or any amendment thereto

shall be binding on the CENTRAL INTELLIGENGE AGENCY.

TERM.

This agceement is effective an of I March 1970 and

shall bo for a term of two (2) yeares. At the end of that period this contract yo

shall be deemed to be renewed tos anothor year unless notice of

termination has been furniohed to you thirty (30) days la advance.

Thereafter the contrnct will be renewed automatically on similar ferme

and conditions. This contract may be termleated at any time by etther

party upon furalahleg thirty (30) daya advance notice. Upon termination

of the contract or songwete thoroot, Including amendments if any. the

CENTAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY Will undertake to 5051ae you la

obtatatas galatul employment or to provide continuint compensation to

asaure you that you will be able to malotain a reasonable atandard of

Vivlog:

This undertaking la contingent upon your fulflillns the ferms of

MICROFILMED

1i1 - n 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER

SECRET

Char

Etels, des

---

## Page 62

the contract und the continuing compllance with the gecticy obliautton

Imposed on you by paragraph 7of hia contrace and

bo groveloge of an

recrecy

agreement which you have signed with the CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

UNITED STATES COVEKNMENT

As Reprerented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

В уз

/B/

Contractloan Offleer

Dates 6 March 1970

ACCEPTED:

US/. BrUCO A BERTOTA

WITNESS

Bruc

6 M

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the

Office of Security.

19 Mati

Chiel, Budget and Fiscal Branch

Officc of Security

MICROFILMEO

"lan 1970.

DOC. MICRO. SER:

SECRET

Echend try calroat

497.3777 741

---

## Page 63

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

Dear Mi. BERTOTALLY..

The UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, as represenied by the

CENTRIL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, hereby contracts with you under

the following terma and conditione:

1. STATUS:

Your logal status undes thilo contract le that of an

Independent contractor os consuliant. You ure not conuldered an

employee of the UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT-by vrtue of thie

contench You will be raquited to hold yourselt aralable at all times

See made of fouty de CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

on to reapond to tooke requented of you by o CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE.

ACING You will retrate from ongogles in othor salaful omploym

or occupation until approval bae been recolved from the CENTRAT

INTELAGENCE ACENCY, Instructions furalshed to you pursuant to

the contract and witals the terma hereof shall be ae binding upon you

an lt tacluded ln the written terma herrof.

2 COMMUNICATION. In wil relationahlps with the CENTRAL

INTELLICINCE AGENCY you will accept requiete, taske and relevant

instructions from an individual herotaatier referred to as the

"Authorised Government Reprosontative, He Will bo fully authorized

to discuse mattere wier you rolating to your responsibilities undor cale

contract Includiag.

but not limited to, covor arrangemente, place of

assigament, conditions of work or any other matters relating to your

relationship with the CENTRAL INTELLGENGE AGENCY.

3. COVER AND SECURITY. ' in the parformance of your

responsibilittes hereunder, appropriate arrangementa will be made.

regarding cover and general security conditions.

You may be required

MICROFILMEO

* 5- A 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER

---

## Page 64

to execute cortila documente in the coaste of eotablishing cover

arrangements but lt la to be'expresly sderitood that auch documente

are solely for the purpose of cover and vecurity and confor nó additional

logal righta or obligations and that all al your rights and obligations with

respect to the CENTRAL INTELLIGLICI AGENCY derive solely from

this agreement. Is connection with cons and securlty you will be

provided frona time to time specile invirsetione by the Authorlsed

Govornment Ropresentitive and you was to required to adhere precionly

to such inétructione.

4, COMPENSATION YOU Wait be componented by the CENTRAte

INEDLLICENGE AGENCY de the rate ol Shaem Thou ind Five Hundred

ont. Payrons of due compen

miles chair bu

monthly la accordance with arrangeme a Acceptable to the Arteorltod

Government Ropresentative. Tale garla oubject to Pedersi Income

taxes and to such income tax laws ad are aplicable lo your place of

realdence. Additionally, this compencatson is subfect to FICA laxed.

The cuzrent rates and method of payonet sill be la accordanco with

applicable lawe and the security instecetines lested by the Authorized

Government Roprecentadve, To assles you in establlahing yoursell, the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC'S WILl assiot you in procurles an

automobile and naceboary household fessittings, providing lunds therefor.

up to a maximum of Eight Thousand Dadars (5a, 000,00% Payment of all

taxes and proparation of necessasy

are your personal

obligation and responsibility but in accor? with appropriate securtly.

Instructionn watch will be furnlebed by Be Authorized Government

Ropresentative.

- 20

MICROFILMED

DOC. MICRO. SER

---

## Page 65

14-000n

5. PLACE DE RESIDENCE. la the interents of security, you will.

be required to live la such State, ires, and house or apartment as in

opecifically approved by the CENTIL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY after

mutual discunion and due consideration of all circumstances. All of

the expenses of such loased house or apartment will be borne by you and

the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will not be obligated to pay any

such éxpens

6. ALLOWANCES, TRAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES:

Is, In the

course of fulfilling your responsibilitles ander thie agroement, monitary

alownces would be payable under general UNITED STATES

COVERNNIENT ruler, end resulatone, you wül be paid auch monetary.

allowances ta rubetantial accordanco wich chore lows and segulattons.

Hi, in the courto or this contract. you are directed to travel or aro

authorized to incur other expented, reimbursoment for expeneds will

be made by the CENTRAL INTELUIGENCE AGENCY la subatantial

accordance with applicable CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

regulations.

7. HOSPITALIZATION AND MEDICAL CARE. The CENTRAL

INTELLIGNCE AGENCY wall provide you with reagonable insurance:

covering medical care and hospitalization équivalont to that which could

be obtalned through standard Insurance polleled; or, the CENTRAl.

INTELUIGENGS AGENCY maY provide directly uch medical care aad

hospitalinaton:

8. SECRECY OBLIGATION:

You wil bo required to seep foraver

secret this agreement and all information which you may obtain by reason

hereof (uniess released in writing by the CENTRAL INTELLÍGENCE

AGENCY from such obligation', with full knowledge that violation of such

= 3-0

MICROFILMED

:!L- n 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

---

## Page 66

cocrecy may dubjecs gou to criminal prosecution under the esplonago laws.

as smonded, and other applicable laws and regulations. Your selationship.

with the CENTRAL INTILLIGENCE AGCNC! and this contract must be

kept necret and you say sot discuns any aspect of this rolatioaship and

contract with aay persos other than the Authorized Goverment

Representative of such other person as he may specilically approve.

9. UNAUTHORIZED COMMITMENTS, No promiuer.or

commitments portaining to rights, privileged, or bonaflin other than those

exprosply silpulated in weltag la thie agreement or any amendment thereto

shalt be binding on the CRNTlAX INTeLLiGENes AGENCY,

19: TERY. Tho asceoment in effectve as of 1 March 1969

and shall te for a terte of one fl yout. Al the end of that parted out

contract shot be deemed to be renewed for another your unloas notice of

termination has been furnished to you thiity (301 dayo In advance of che:

olapse of one il year, Theroalter the contract will be renowed automatically

on similar terms ind conditions. This contract may be terminated at any

time by olther party upon furalahing thirty (39) days advance notico. Upon

termination of thie contract of renewals thereol, Including amondmenta.

Lany, tho CENTRAL ENTELLIGENCE AGENCY will undertake to assist

you in obtainind gainful eraployment on to provide continulag compensation

to abeure you that you will be able to plantators coasonable standurd of

living: This undertading is contingent upon your fulling the terma of

this contract ind the continuing compliance with the secrecy obligations.

MICRO-ILMED

==.0) 1070

DOC. MICRO. SER

---

## Page 67

imposed or you by paragraph 8 al this contract and the provisione of

any secrecy agreemens which you have signed with the CENIRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

L'NITED STATES COVERNMENT

As Represented by the

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By:

Contractias

Offices

ACCEPTED.

TVIT

• Bate:

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the

Office of Security:

sound Grain

HOWARD J.

BORN

DIRECTOR OF

ECURITY

MICROFILMED

'L=n 1070

DUC MIÇRO. SER.

-5-

SENTET

1e.i

---

