# 104-10216-10201

## Page 1

104-10216-10201

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

rx7i; 755745770-757

7.

DISPATCH

886889

PROCEBSZAIO

ACTION

CROS O1 B83K103. PaRBERA

Dabsene or crane

OR MERLINED. BERNHOT

AN EPIR

Kay

18 IV07-9184, 87 40012 290,

ASSES

Meleon E. Rabisnt

Auta

L S0ast18108 (Enter ecgaruta coras

fle

ER Bogt e

9.89

---

## Page 2

104-10216-10201

-з

a) Falanão Cuba

shtoty years of age, amorodrately, also set his at leven

alveralty, the

be uas a student at the ledical Faculty, participated actively

In tha strugzle against Istista, taking part in the sttaapt there cornel Blanco

100, Chief of the SIM (servicto de Intellencha Illitar), of tbe fatista arty

Lost 11s 1108. Artervards, he entered clandestinely into the United States

through Her orleans, In One of the salps of the "Compeila Harlera liarcle Lines",

beings refugee of the united states and living for a long thue at few lord city

and illaul. Later he rent to cuba 1n an expedition that left from Miand clandestinely,

together 11th 29 Cuban nesters of the "DATectar1o Estudlantil Univeral terio", taklag

arts end explorives to cuba. lith bia sere Foure Crausent, José Feraindos Cosado,

LuSE BlAnCA, the Mago Robraño, Jimenito, Julio el Grande, Pepta Maranjo, H11110m

MOrgan, DE. Armando feltes end sona othere, reaching cajo lagulla end exchanging

ships, reaching libs in Ishing boats by the coast of lasaguey. All tise eroup oad

egulpuent sant by trucka to the city of caraguey there they sere divided into tro

groups, one cosmandod by faire Chaont uns going to havana sita part of the

antanent, end the other group carminded by Balando Cubelas and lillian Margan sas

heading tomards the sourtains of the Bachabray on las Villas Erovince, to join the

guerrtllas tho tere commanded by Gutlerres lenojo. Ister on he participated 1s abe.

tating of the lity of sants clara together with the troops coranded by sensata

"Che" curvara, lith the domfall of the satista rugius, ba reached the grade of

comandant but sithout any poaltion of the coverasent,

having already bad sous

disazreement vita Fidel Castro to vas tha leader of 26 de Jullo Movement and sot

wanting to be in disapproval ulth the goverment of Castro, left for spein. Per

he returned he accaptod the position of subsecretarlo of the linletario de lober

Dacón of uhich Jodé (Pepís) faranjo las Miniuter. Alterrardo he vas electod

President of the Pederación Estudlantil Univeraltarla, under the orders of Fidel

Castro and introduced to the lniveralty the arusd nilltlas of the govermant that

turned out to be the "trops da chogue" that lare uled to galet dom the students

too protested against the leftist measures of the goverament toras the establist

ment of the carunist systen at the univeralty.

---

## Page 3

104-10216-10201

..

•...

-

SECRET

SIPARATE COVER AFRACIATE 2 50 NYCA-L1722, 22 BEFT iN

These brothers one

hot in jail in

Cube.

the

Paramnian CA

Deputy, Jet Ca

there

book ther

Caber

Rober

LEMPLES

A - Jorgo Puente Blanco

8 - JOBS LAUTO BIENCO

C - Odda Blanco 1921s

D - Certor GonzElax BlancO

P - J008 Puente Blanco

A - Doctor larcos Robles, Frealdent of PESAEL

lose info on

fresies in Ameijéias

file - met

furtinent to LASH.

BEORBT

---

