# 104-10116-10049

## Page 1

104-10116-10049

?.!!

"pstet

T riarch 1988

SUBJSCT: OLIVANS, W1ll1an I.

ALZEGATION:

WillIam I OLIHANS, described

aB a Dutch pro-Cumnist, Inter-

viewed GARRISON for a Dutch TV

progrem waich eppeared on the

Hague TY on 22 February 1968.

GARRISON charged that KENMEDY

vas the victim of a CIA plot.

He alleged that the growing

CIA Influence on U. G. news

media had nade It Impossible

for him to be beará 1n his ow

country.

SOURCE:

Meno from CI/R&A dtd

I March 1958 referencing:

cable traffic from Tbe

Hague for 24 and 27 Feb 1968.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Fegative

DETAILS:

CIA CONNECTION:

None

Source nemorandum contained the following information on OLIMANS:

"a.

Deos 10 June ises sulzen, me dether lando:

misbehavior•

"b. Studied at Tale 1950 but expelled for unstated

"C. Ibereafter worked briefly as correspondent for U.P.

and for Dutch paper De Telegraat but dismissed by both for unstated

ceuse.

"do An FBI report of 1960 states that be calls himself anti-

Communist but expresses the views 'of a great admirer of communisn"

"e.

An IANS report of 1951 116ts his address for 1956-1961 as 118-09 8

Eird Ave., Kew Gerdens, Long Islend, New York.

Escicect iran stre

Boy 6Ng 230

RETURPITO CIA

Background. Use Only

Do :10l Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"I. A CIA report of 1961 lists him es & UN correspondent

then planning an unsponsored trip to Last Germary, Poland,

Crechoslovale, and Fungary. Dutch corespondents said that they

had yet to see a story written by bim" When he applied for

peership In the UN correspondents' association, he was mable

travels extensively.

countries Including Cuba.

"go The Eegue Post of 15 Apr112951, with a netionide

resdership, characterized OLMANS &s an Intimate friend of the?

then President of Indonesia, SUKARNO, and as having tried for

five years to arrange contacts for SUKARNO la Hollend.

*h. An FBI report of 24 lovenber 1961 restates the ebove

and sads that be hed been separated or divorced from his Anericen

wife 18 months earlier because 'he 1ß not a men', De wes liviag

with a nale at the time of the report.

"1i

An FBI report of 1 February 1962 Includes an Interview

with the ex-wife; Frleda BIELING (she had remarried). sbe said

that ber ex-husband end President SUKARNO were close frienãs and

that be wrote to SUKARIO at least once a weet throughout their

marriege. Around 195T she and OLDIANS Ilyed at the Paranount Hotel,

Bev Jork, for a time.

The Indonesian government paid their bill,

which was sore than $300.. Sbe met SUKARHO through ber husband In May 1959

In Copenhagen.

At the time of the Introduction SUKARNO cleared the

ross of all edvisors and bodyguards, then said to her, "So you are

Well, I am Sukle.!

read then Just before he went to sleep while he was in bed.! She said

that ten minutes after ber wedding ceremony with OuntS was over,

she uss alone. Her father, she said, learned thet OLIMANS bad.

police record for molesting young boys in Amsterdan.

She obtained a

Mexican divorce In 1960, she seid that OLIMANS 1s at leest

Intellectually & Cammmist and belleyes that Comunian 18 tbe, i 951

econonte system of, the future.

1365, 24 October 1966, Bays OLIMANS wrote pro-

LUMBA articles in 1960, visited Cuba In 1962 and perbaps 1963,

developed friendly relations with Chicons at be Hegue and may:

heve visited China in 1954. In August 1966 he applied for a Chicon

visa at The Hague.

An FBI report of 12 Hey 1957 says that OLIMANS claimed

to have written for RAMPARIS an article about CIA in Indonesía,

No rich article bas been found. "

---

