# 104-10506-10021

## Page 1

1104-70506-10021]

...*

otas

SECRET

November 1976

SUBJECT: Byron CAMERON (No 201)

U.S. citizen

1. Owner of vessel Cayman Hope.

2. a. UFGA 15233 dated 15 April 1964: (Filed with AMCANOE Op)

Report on a Byron CAMERON who said he represented an

unidentified group of persons who had made contact with two Cuban

gangsters who were willing to kill Fidel CASTRO.

CAMERON reportedly

was associated with a Mr. S.W. TYLER (no identifiable traces) of

Caribbean Producer, Inc., Miami Springs, Fla., and Herbert F. JENNE

(no traces) with the firm F.A. Johnson, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

b. UFGA 15954 dated 11 May 1964: (Filed with AMCANOE op)

CAMERON mentioned contact with unidentified group

willing to assassinate selected Cuban leaders: Fidel CASTRO, Raul

CASTRO and Che GUEVARA. CAMERON made fairly clear that the Mafia

was involved.

c. HJKA-161 dated 1 March 1963 - 103-8-1

Dispatch from Kingston to Hqs. forwarding a report from

_on the M/V Cayman Hope, its crew and owner (CAMEDAN). Stated

that the imbassy had received a report from the Treasury Department

which indicated heightened interest in the activities of Mr. Byron R.

CAMERON.

d. WAVE 4993 (IN 26174}, dated 19 Nov 64 19-6-104-4

CAMERON was sub-source for shipping information provided

to Agency by AMWAX-1.

Said that cargo vessel "SS New Providence" owned

y Norbert Thompson of the Kel Farm Supply Company, was known to loa

erchandise in Miami. Fla., which was transshipped to Cub:

Ima

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- 2 -

e. DBA 77673 (FB) dated 15 July 64 (Filed 19-9-9)

Plan of Cuban exile leaders to assassinate selected

Cuban Government leaders.

Cuban exile approached on 2 Mar 64 by owner

of whip which sailed under British flag.

"Had contacts with underworld

tre-in partner who was former police officer from St. Louis with

to elements of "Cosa Nostra." Cost was $100,000.00 to kill

Fidel CASTRO; $20,000.00 each for Raul CASTRO and "Che" GUEVARA. Persons

involved were Byron CAMERON, owner of M.V. "Cayman Hope," Teofilo BABUN

Francos, co-owner of Antillean Marine Shipping Corp. and two BABUN

employees: Oscar FERNANDEZ Veigo and Eliseo GOMEZ Fernandez, Jose

"'Pepin" BOSCH, and Julio LOBO Olavarria. Eduardo GARCIA of Garcia

Lines, NiCity, also in contact with LOBO and BABUN.

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DISPATCHI

Adairs

COLORAN

Chlet of sution, Knoten.

roTO INOS. 0219, HJKA-221 RN09-0398

A To void delay

J6e crew and owner t

Interest and timelin

RUABBE/ on 28 Februaty: 1963 fter 4t

receiving Ite

28

-0398

who expreased

Mint

The Embassy

he entaned intarest in the scuffitio

RIl please card ala nanes in attached report:

On Paym

Attachment:

report

Distribution:

Higs (w/att)

CS LUÉT

DATE I

oh. March 1963l March

EAS FILE PAA

103-8-1

5/кс

---

## Page 4

13-00080

we compellin

19GROT LUNSOON INTE

MIS O1900 heur mond on

no one both on tree Motel

(6)

(o)

b001

notic on

o funty.

OM LARSE

on with

the

CAN EROU

* He

/ andabounded one

Vetters

9498.9

i tr

Cho Man

lon handed shet

Pet

36

A Soon sun for (2ad neinger) acguerds

---

## Page 5

13-00000

hunane

Kowie nanar caincero

SA (9or mn ycaneros

(ai сal 2en Pios, Uecms) ay толост

eey ds (neo) surrer avitain (al

nnes, taueosd tn oelecorudaltly

Antnes to Mentogo May.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

NOV: 19 52312

COIR NO

P LINTEL TYPI

HANG 1099

20-1

"AD CONTAIL MINA

AX-I IN REPORT DID I8 NOY 64;

suegounce iS us scitizen

PON. ONER OF VESSEL

CAYMAN HORE. PLS PROTECT. NIPER

ADOITIONAL

RIDE

ICLO COMMENTS BASED AMOT EE- 1835 ANO BARR 1 173.

2 PLS INDEX

FUKED 1822212]

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY&

CUBA MAITO KINCOOMINITEO STATES

C SUBUR S TRANSSHIPMENT OF CARGO FOR CUBA

$ DOIL PRIOR TO 18 NOVEMBER 1964

ADAR A UNITED STATES; MIAMI (16 NOVEMBER 1964)

urd-6228

19N0164

OURCES A CUBAN EXILE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE ANTILLEAN MARINE

199-06-1090

Shac

---

## Page 7

13-000

GAME MONTAN

richer

N 22 9:08 AN 15

PAGE 2 IN 26174

SHIPEING CORPORATION. THE INFORMATION IS FROM THE OMNER. OF A vessel

ENCASED IN CARIBBEAN SHIPPING;

DE82?

•E.2.21

HE PE 25-3

DATE DUTRATUTED

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00

• RACE

DATE ACA

DOUtC

M26174

TEAS OF. IN MOVEMBER 19G4, CREMEN OF A CARGO VESSEL OPERATING

IN THE MIMI AREA SAÏD THAT THE CARGO VESSEL "SS NIN PROVIDENCE) ONNED

EX NORECRI THOMPSON OF THE KEL FARM SUPPLY COMPANIES

MERCHANDISE IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, WHICH WAS TRANSSHIPPED TO CUBA. THE

VESSEL DECLARED AN UNSPÉCIFIED PORT ON GRAND CAYMAN, A BRITISH POSSESSION

SOUTH OF CUBA, AS HER POINT OF DESTINATION, UPON ARRIVAL AT THE

PORT, HER CARGO WAS UNLOADED ONTO THREE CARRIERS, THEN SHE SAILED TO

A FORT AT THE END OF THE ISLAND AND RELOADED THE MERCHANDISE WHiCH WAS

THEN SHIPPED TO PORTS IN ORIENTE PROVINCE, CUBA.

ZO ETHE CREWMEN DESCRIBED ONE SHIPMENT CONSISTING OF 3,5000 AUTOMO

Mia a dord contains

1 voo do 700 ane 996

chin in mo

SECRET

ARAT/ACH MATY

Ain

BACON MEA NIC NO VIA OC ONE OCR ONE 00

10 1389 160

a COPY

# COPY D

---

## Page 9

13-00900

SECRET

DILE CATERIES MUCH LE A CURSO FOR TIE CITA PIONIOGICE OCCINO TON

ARAO CAMAN. IT DA RON THAT TARS AC NOT DONE TO MUTO

1U MY PROVIDENCES RAN NCEN DOCA DE BRITICA NOLOTRE OR MANGALICA

LTO, NASSAU, SINCE ISS

THE VESSCE AS MUSCAN

MONACH

COULD NOT OE POSITINELE IDENTICICO.

FIELO DISSON, CINCIO, CINCLANT, CORESTOR, BLAMI ROPE

OT STATE, BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS, CONST QUARO, PO1. (ALSO GENT

10

sort transpute cago to colo

AND OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

