# 104-10273-10312

## Page 1

104-10273-10312

EP.E.

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

0. "

pe-gone P0008-898 011 500lis

D351 D900978 306 bodienton!

2. Use dock of lom for ony odditro. al commenta

DAY

MONTH

YEAH

A ATT-TO DOC. NO. 75, P77-0092 (HemmiNG)

TO/RECIPIENT (10 CHARACTERS)

Jun

DC/Security Analysis Group

CLASS

WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

c/ Security Analysis Group

DDO!

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

S

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

Gerald Patnick Hemming

5F# 429 229

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

DATE

OF

REVIEW

DAY

MONTH

A Sep

YEAR

136

84

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B.

Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

#. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO 110 CHARACTERS COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

E.

Sustain

initial denial in toto

F.

Sustain initial

release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

GrR. B. Holmes

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

E.0. 12356

10

11

12

13

14

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED 140 CHARACTERS)

FOIA

B1

B2

B3 B4 B5 B6 87C

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1.

2.

3.

Classification

Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

Informa Ion pertaining to a liaison

relatIohship with a Foreign Government

Information which would/could identify the

source k

5.

Information pertaining

to a source

6.

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

8.

Location of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.

Namet INfEM

CIA employee S

10.

File number S

11.

Pseudonym

12.

Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(;) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

S

REMARKS IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE' (40 CHARACTERS)

-84

(LA)

REMARKS 1160 CMARACTERSI

-See moles a *00643

Box 1-#Il Loran Eugene Hall, Howard Davis,

Richard Mathcock. DuplicAteD IN Does, No. 0870,

a form oo Unlondied Unless The Closesteror 0m 18 61

0643, 01618 4 OLC Copy.

o The laston

implored.

il N

terrari

---

## Page 2

13-000,00

DOC AIRES

JOYLY

CONg

ROUTING AND. RECORD SHEET

LiDUECT: (Opromil)

HENMING, Gerald Patrick

ісл.

EXTENSION,

Jerry G.

Brown

Euputy

Chief

Security Analysis

Group

4400

iS: ¡Orten desgnation, room number, and

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

1.

C/SAG

LiOps/psI

117573

dIAL

SECRET

NO.

429 229

11 June 1976

COMMENTS (Number eoch commone to shem 890m wha

to whom.

Drem a line across coiume ane auer cemmoni.)

3:

d..

5.

SAt

Entire mistles sile

ifered t Fis/-Sta

Bine stole

7.

POISAG

10.

12.

13.

i s.

15.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

DOOm

UUY0A558100

CONDUCTED ON EARS

12351

CL REVIEW BY --

0109291

I DECL O DOWNGR TO -

REVW ON -

CITATION _

#00917

HOt RECORD DOCUMENE

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NUT RELEASE

---

## Page 3

13-00000

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

:SF1429 229

SF#429

Gerald Patrick

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information

concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

_ was referred to the writer, who is holding the HENNING

contacted the writer,

is the action officer for a cable from

advised that h

] Station)

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

- was requested

copy of the report coming in from the i

Station.

→/provided the writer with a copy of the cable.

(IN 944357,

dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached....In substance, the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatemalan source,

with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the

_Station•

a written report, and a detailed briefing,

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

1975; however,

one of the major conspirators,

"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result

of an attack upor his? , 975::.

ZIMERI's, life: ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was involved with tio Americans,

brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

The HEMMING brothers

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms,

among other things,

were flown to Guatemala in

a small

aircraft.

The report

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Niami and New Orleans.

3S8TET

EZ IMPDE!

CL BY 06399.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

FERRET

NOTE: The

_Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

had

_ on 8 June.

said thât ho

been providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months or

that two Americans were

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with

five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZINERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United

States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry

firearms,

as well as

to purchase arms

and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

12

6.

Office of Security indices are negative

in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

1. From the name, physical description,

activity, and

alleged

employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HE MING

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been

described as six-foot five,

250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and wio

as

of Nay 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Niami, Florida.

2

SIGNET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

033187

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

and JMYAVE.

nucious ccasions since

the Office of Security Mial fast the early 1365° has hosu

lad claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there

none.

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMNING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony

STURGIS (SF#353 459),

aka:

long-time record of

Frank FIORINI, falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

In

the late 1950'g HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean

and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Communist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully

established)

was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Junc

1975 in the

name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F.

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicit in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISONLalleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was, involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

sent hot

Brown-

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SENNET

---

## Page 6

13-Q00,00

BE UNCLASSISIED

I CONE

ROUTING. AND. RECORD SHEET

SITIAL

SEGRET

SiBIECT: (Oprionat)

HENMING, Gerald Patrick

Jerry G. Brown

Daputy Chicf

Security Analysis Group

'S:

Orere designation, room numbre, and

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

!.

C/S.AG

2.

11 pa36

1115751

4)20

3:

EXTENSION

4400

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

429 229

Da%s

11 June 1976

COMMENTS (Number each commeni lo shos leam whom

to whom.

Drea e line aeross coiume orse nuch camment.)

ok anti 14,

SAI

En tere mistles no be

Bive thole

5.

7.

POISAG

biales 8

10

11.

12.

13.

is.

15

157.r

510 USE PRENCUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

DOOm.

JYCLASSIF:E0

---

## Page 7

13-00000

ARONET

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUN FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

9P:420 220

1.

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

_was referred to the writer,

who is holding the HEMMING

writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from the

Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JNWAVE

to the below-mentioned cable and

copy of the report coming in from thel

m eprovide the stater with a

(Station)

2

(IN 944357,

→/provided the writer with a copy of the cable.

dated & June 1975),

which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

Uatemalan President LAUGCRUI

Station.

a written report,

and a detailed briefing,

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

ZIMERI's, life.

ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HEMMING brothers

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which

were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

333327

E2 INPDET

CL BY 065994

---

## Page 8

13÷00000

NOTE: The

Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

...- on 8 June.

- said thâi he

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan government for the

past six months or

50.

He

claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described

one of the Americans as about six

feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with

five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry

firearms, as

well as

to purchase arms and ammunition tor

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Departnent.

6.-Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

activity, and

alleged employment,

d employment, it is apparent that perald Patrick HElING

is identical with

the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five,

250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

as

day or co, scene coffee scarleto tocol stion

2

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-000.00

ASSNET

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMVAVE.

had claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there

Binous casions sinéo ai liast the early 1900 "has been

"crisis

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

Frank FIORINI,

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

long-time record of

falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

the late 1950's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries

for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Communist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the

Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan

government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by

dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

and an extract from a book published in early 1970 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the

Assassination of John F. Kennedy

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY®

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY•..

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA. GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

Atts

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

SHONET

---

