# 104-10428-10216

## Page 1

104-10428-10216

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Inquiry from Richard Russell of Dial Press Concerning Dallas Field

Office Association with Lee Harvey Oswald and George deMohrenschildt

FROM:

EXTENSION.

NO. -

office of the Chief, DCD.

912 Key BIdg:

TO Officer designation, room number, and

building

22657

DATE 1:

23 July 1976

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS: (Number each comment to show from whom

so whom.

Draw a line. across column after each comment.)

SA/ DDO:

2D-0117 Has:

WN.

2.

01/ EX0

• 28÷4

1971

2: 7)

information!

The attached is for your

Robert K. Starling

C/OPS/DCD

5.

6.

7.

8.

ci/o6

Rivas Holimes

1 to 3:

Believe CI is the

appropriate place to retain

items of this nature.

We

shall forward to your office

any memoranda sent to this

office..

John Walker

2. 3: This in over

morgue: Pens italines

might beateste

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

OFTIONAL FORM SO. 10

MAY ISE SOITION

ESA FPHA 141 CP) 199-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT (ST

Memorandum:

TO

ATTN

: Chief, Domestic Collection Division

Chief of Operations

FROM

: Chief, Dallas Field Office

DAL -83-76

DATE: 14 July 1976

SUBJECT:

Inquiry from Richard Russell of Dial Press. Concerning Dallas Field

Office Association with Lee Harvey Oswald and George deMohrenschildt

• On the evening of 13 July 1976, at about 2100, Mr. Richar

Russell of the Dial Press and the Dell Publishing Company, came bj

my house.

He advised that he was working on a book on the Kennedy

assassination and that he understood I was a friend of George

deMohrenschildt.

He wanted to know. if I had ever met Lee Harvey Oswald

or if deMohrenschildt had ever suggested that I should see Oswald.

I told him no on both counts and advised that I have not seen or

talked with George. deMohrenschildt since the fall of 1961.

2. Mr. Russell attempted to draw me into discussion of the

Kennedy assassination which I avoided and wanted to know if I could

give him the name of the chief of the CIA office in Mexico City in

1963. I told him I could not, and he said he could probably get the

name from Mr. David Phillips. I do not foresee any adverse publicity

as a result of Mr. Russell's visit but felt that it should be made a

matter of record.

Walton Moon,

WALTON MOORE

JWM/ jb

CONFIDENTIAL

E2 IMPDET CL BY 003820

Buy U.S. Savings. Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

