# 104-10106-10042

## Page 1

104-10106-10042

SECRET

l President

20 October 1976

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

00

Dear: Hix. Steele,)

об

This document is intended to confirn discussions held between

yourself, representing

hereinafter

referred to as the "Company, and Mr. John J. Murray, JIr, representing

the central Intelligence Agency (CIA). If it conforms ta your

understanding of the agreement reached, kindly so acknowledge by

signing below.

1. You have agreed on behalf of the Company a asslat CIA

by placing on retainer Mr..

Richard I. Gibson at an annual. fee of

$9, 000 per annan.

Thin fen will he paid to Mr. Gibson by the

Company in monthly increments of $750 each. The Company will

overtly negotiate a retainer contract with Mi. Gibson, waich will

make eminently clear that both are negotiating and concluding the

contract as independent parties; that the Company will. have no.

obligation so withhold Federal, state or Social Security income

taxes.

2. In consideration of the support rendered, CIA will pay

the Conpany a fee of $10,000 per annun.. Provision 19 nade in this

amount to offset any nominal expenses the fim incurn in its overt

associations or support of Mr. Gioson.

3. CIA will reinburse the Company in quarterly Increments

via & contrived contracrual arrangenent between the Company and

a nocional facility of CIA. Cancelled checks will serve as

adequate accounting for monies paid the Company.

4 Because of CIA's Interest in Mir. Gibeon, It Is requested

of CIA for a period of two (2) years following termination of this

agreenent.

E2IMPDET

CL by:

063837

---

## Page 2

SECHET

5. All Information relating to this Agreement 1s classified

secret.

Both CIA and the Company agree that the most stringent

safeguards will be taken to protect this Information, including

the existence of the agreement. Any information in any form that

must be given to & third party by either CIA or the Company will

be done in strict conformance with the laws safeguarding national

security information, and only with full consultation between CIA

and the Company..

6.

This agreement is effective 1 October 1976 and shall remain

In ful, effect for an indefinite period, subject to cancellation

at any time upon sixty (60) days' notice by either party thereto.

The CIA wishes to expresa its appreciation for the manner

in which you have received this request to perform a service

related to the national security of the United States and for

yous personal artention thaceto.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY

Special Contracting Officex

President

Date

2/RS

---

