# 104-10123-10391

## Page 1

104-10123-10391

SECRET

(When Filled In)

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD

(Submit in triplicate - see HR 20-37)

SECTION A

PERSONAL DATA

55682202

Nectab, Jaw.es

RECOMMENd alter,

(er, '5%: Middles

OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

7. OFFICE EXT. (If hqs)

OS/Phys. Sec. Div.

6821

MEADOUARTERS

HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, State, ZIP Code)

7 inder Court, Foelville, Md. 20959

2.

RECOMMENDED AWARD

13.

Certificate of Distinction

15 Mat jorie Lee McCord

16 WIleT ONSHIP

17.

STATION

FIELD (Specify location)

HOME PHONE

11.

CITIZENSHIP

AND HOW ACQUIRED

762-7078

U.S. A. - Birth

IF

RETIRING. DATE OF

RETIREMENT

14.

POSTHUMOUS

31 /ugust 1$70

HOMES ARRE

ADDRESS (No.,St.. City, State, ZIP Code)

YES

NO

HOME PHONE

SECTION B

RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD

FOR HEROIC ACTION OR ACCEPTANCE OF HAZARD

19. WERE YOU AN. EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT

PERSONNEL IN IMMEDIATE VICINITY OR WHO ASSISTED IN ACT OR SHARED IN SAME HAZARD:

20. FULL NAME

21. ORGN. TITLE

22. GRADE

23. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN ACT:

24. FULL NAME

AWARD RECOMMENDED

CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH ACT WAS PERFORMED:

26. LOCATION

127. INCLUSIVE DATES

29. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

128. TIME OF DAY

30. DATES FOR WHICH AWARD RECOMMENDED

31.

ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED

32. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED

ASSIGNMENT

YES

I NO

SECTION C

RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD

FOR ACHIEVEMENT, SERVICE,

OR PERFORMANCE

HAVE PERSONAL

THE SERVICE

OR PERFORMANCE

Chick, Physiat Socurity Brain, Tos, age on a lis

I

COMPONENT OR STATION (Designation and location)

Icadguartere

36. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ASSIGNED POSITION

To plan and direct an Agency-wide physical security program for protecting

figency installations against unautborized physical penetration and Agency

information and material against los8, compromise or disclosure.

37. INCLUSIVE DATES FOR WHICH RECOMMENDED

38.

ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED

39. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT

PERSONNEL WHO ASSISTED OR CONTRIBUTED

SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

10. FULL NAME

41. OREN. TITLE

142. GRADE 43. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD

A4. FULL NAME

OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE PERFORMANCE

45. TYPE OF AWARD

FOFM

9 - 68

600 USK

PIERIOUS

EDITION

SECRET

14)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECTION D

SECRET

(when Filled In)

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION

Award for Heroit Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was oct voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding, and if it was more than

normally expected.

Explain, why, and how.

If an aerial or marine

operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances.

Indicale results of the oct. Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period for which recommended.

(Give complete description of odmin-

istratire, technical, or professional dulies and responsibilifies if not covered in Section C; include dotes of assignment and relief.)

What did the individual

do that merits the award?

Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? lf

appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units.

What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate re-

sults of achievement, service, or performance.

Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which

supports this recommendation.

Enclose unclassified citation.

When he retires 31 August 1970, Mir. Jarea W. Mcford, JI., will

have completed 25 yeara of Government nervice, 19 years of which were with

the CLA in a variety of assigarents covering the investigative, counter-Intelli

gence, overseas security suppert, audio countesmensures and physical security

fielde within the Security Career Service.

During hls early yeare of exployment when ansigned to the San Fraacisco

Fleld Office, Office of Security, August 1951 to May 1953, Mr. McCord assisled

in tbe covert entry and procesring through custoras of operational persoonel

from the Far E-st areas and perforced safehouse dutica and related taaka

¿crigned to ensure the protection and cover of such personnel.

When serving with the Security Research Staff, 1955 to 1962, Mr. McCord

worked in diroct sappori of Agency activities abroad of a specialized nature ex-

ploiting highly sensitive intelligence eource material resulting in the reconstraction

el Soviet esplonage networks and zesciving operatient and security leads affecting

both the

Jand United States Goreraments. The identities, composition and

operations of Soviet intelligence services in Europe prior to 1950 and dating back

into the 1930's, were reconstructed. Botreen 1455 end 1960, Me. McCurd was

Involved in contacting, developing and debriefing these identified and available

CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET

ENCLOSURES (List individually) IF ORIGINATOR

EYEWITNESS OR DOES NOT HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE ACT

OR PERFORMANCE, ATTACH AFFIDAVITS OF EYEWITNESS OR INDIVIDUALS HAVING PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE FACTS.

1. PROPOSED CITATION

2.

3.

47.

RECOMMENDATION INITIATED BY

TITLE AND SIGNA

JURE OF

EMPLOYEE MAKING RECOM-

MENDATION

DATE

James f. O'Connell

SECTION E

50.

Diputy Director of Security (PTOS)

RECOMMENDATION FORWARDED THROUGH OFFICIALS CONCERNED FOR THEIR INFORMATION

DATE

17 JUL 1970

HEAD

OF.

_ CAREER

SERVICE

(Career service of nominee)

DATE

51.

DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CAREER SERVICE

52.

Deputy Director for Support

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

23 JUL 1970

DATE

DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF OPERATING COMPONENT

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

Section D Continued - James. Walter McCord, Jr.

former Soviet intelligence personalities. This activity led to close

liaison witb

involvine numeroua trios tol

Intelligence representatives

24

established a direct channel

of communications resulting in a continuous exchange of leads and

a flow of operational date over the years of benefit to the Agency.

During the period of his work with the Security Research

Staff, In which he served as Deputy Chief from May 1957, Ms.

McCord was the Agency's case officer in a number of double agent

cases involving Agency staff employees who had been contacted

and were being developed for recruitment by the Soviet intelligence

service.

From 1962 to 1964, Ms. McCord served overseas as Chief 15-20

of the Regional Security Support Staff located at

with responsibility for the overall personnel and physical security

and audio countermeasures programs applicable to the Stations and

Bases of the European area.

This assignment was followed by

attendance at the Air War College, August 1964 to June 1965.

For the past five years, Mr. McCord has held two vital line

positions with world-wide responsibilities involving the Agency'&

audio countermeasures and physical security programa.

As Chief of the Technical Division irom 23 July 1965 to

10 October 1968, Mr. McCord supervised a technical operation

with considerable skill. Although not an engineer by training, be

spanned a difficult gap between the administrative and technical

demands of his responsibilities, guiding the development of useful

and esoteric equipment in the counter-audio field to a point where

the Agency became the recognized leader among Government depart-

ments in this area of actlvity. This leadership is evidenced by the

31071

SEGNET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Section D Continued - James Walter McCord, JI.

establishment of an Inter-Agency Technical Training Center under

the Executive Ageney of the Technical Division for the Icchnical

Surveillance Countermeasures Committee of the United States

Intelligence Board. Much of Mr. MeCord's Ideas, talents, and

imagination went into the creation of thia training activity which

commenced operations about the time of his reassigament to the

Physical Security Division.

Mr. McCord participated with two subordinate employeea

in the development of x-ray equipment for use by the Technical

Division in detecting and locating hostile audio devices implanted

in office appurtenances and walls of Agency occupied facilities.

The responsibility for ensuring that appropriate protective methode

for the safe use of thie equipment was also associated with this

development. The significance of this achievement was recognized

by the Ageney when Mr. McCord and his participating colleagues

were awarded Certificates of Merit

in October 1966..

In his current position as Chief, Physical Security Division,

MI. McCord demonstrated his ability to guickly assimilate the

necessary details of a field in which he had relatively little ex-

perience. He showed initiative in seeking out new ways and meane

to harden the security of the Agency's domestic and overseas

facilities by tapping all possible technological resources, both in. -

and out of Government, to produce for the Agency a posture in the

physical security field which is the egual of, if not superior to, those

of other elemente of the United States Government. Illustrative of

this effort is the expansion and Improvement of the Agency'a Security

Command Center relating to the protection of Agency assets in time

of demonstrations, riots and civil disturbances.

Throughout his Agency career, Mr. McCord has engaged

his curious and inventive mind to search out even better ways to

solve problems within his area of responsibility.. As a result, big

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

Section D Continued - James Walter McCord, Jr.

Agency career is a record of sustained superior performance of

duty of high value.

The value of his exemplary performance over

the years has often been recognized and commended by senior

olficials of the Agency. It is on this basis that Mr. McCord iu

nominated for the Certificate of Distinction upon the occasion of

his retirement.

Secter

---

