# 104-10117-10203

## Page 1

104-10117-10203

C0 Degember 7967

-MORARINA TORs Chief, IT03/BRB

SUBJECTE

December 1967 RAMPATIS ArtiEle Intitlaa "the

CIA's ". Brown and Root Ilmenelons!"

agil and ROOT, Ine. = f405552

tan fallowing employees of front mad Root, las. were epproved fol

ones too on the dates Indicated

HENS, Rose 4 9403552-4

DONE, JaGnS Nerton, Vict President

in charge of foreign Operations

13 Miarah 1950

21 December 1953 and

26 Februery 1953

405552-5

HARVER, Merritt Allen, Cler

Frojeat Accountant

Sa demary 1957 and

12 AprIl 1937

940555210

Thanna. Kenneth

540535820

I5 February 1957 and

& Way 1957

do Detober 1957

44055500

WEIN, Lobby son

1CH02LES

14 July 1965

HACKER, Richard Andrew, Civia

DagInter -1453103

(A PECA vo issuad for

contact and anemont but

be was not med

3 Angust 1963

RESKE3, Fimer Ray - 10464227

MACK, John GrIman, dre

• 445780

6 Auguet 2955

19 Jig 1966

SONI SOUNDANTOY

There f no 08 eubject filo on the BROIII Foundetion Vut a reference

ite centeins a memorandon duted 30 Juvary 1967 to the Deputy Director, Plans

SECRET

DADD 1

Encheded iron astemare

decides Tient e

b"d:."

Wald: to 66. 60 ddU

---

## Page 2

Seas Chier, Central Cover Group oncerning the threat of exponre of

Agency oparatioos and conaludes that the DROWN Foundation of Houston,

Juan vas oua of the nort mulnarablo to exponre beamine pubite recorda

ruflert direct ties fron Agendy Anting luntruments Isontired by

Congresmo PAIAN III 2J64 to legitimata foundatione nad Azancy

protecte they have sponsoredo:

JENSE POMP - M

o0Y3

The VERNON JInd (ESTUDIED)

stivate pilothrapa roundation legalig incorporated

moder sue lms os end with en of tro ta the batriot of Colmablo..

(28Z177K2)

(BLACEPOD)

In fluch

196T because of exposure of the forao Fund In neva nella, the Bonrd

mamburs more ecataated adviced as pollowas

Beca Vernon Fand board naber 1e being ravined that he wizl

reunite a copy of the in and vicorp letters regarding press.

allegationo, he vill acknoredes hia nentership on the Vernon

Fund board if confronted with the insti he wiil esterledge that the is

Vernon Find has supported kcore and tunt It mada a far sall graate

to sas be 1111 decline any further coment on the oriela or operatio

of the Vernon Fund,

Is 111l be asked to retar

any files or papers reinting to the Vernon findy he will be told that

DE. CARR (Hillian doors CA) has not yet had to Identity any board

members but 1011 probrily hors tos ba 1111 not coment on the creation.

pf the Vernon Pand nad bou Initial contacts rare mide.

RISKs Albert Mato, III - 10278333 (Vernon Fund Soard Member)

Albert Blaze DICK, III, Promideut, A. D. DICK Coupony, Chiango,

Illingda, vas araated a lovert security Approval

APPOULARI

H11?10n Go CARR uno prented i coveit Saourity Cloarance on 22 AprIl

1955 for amutting une under Pra,J00t LIPITIAS end en 21 Horanher 2967 3u

raceived a Covert Bacurity Approval to permit dio nos inder Projot

DNAPaT In his position se Secretary-General of tir Mortd Confederation

FA BrO: 5 - 1749438

Pine co

Wabe: 10. 66. 60 ddu:

---

## Page 3

15 Haventer 1956 and on 19 Sentenber 1953 he racesved mossar

corrt security cance to permit his uoe

Hole Conded reston of Orpentzations of the Touchtus Prosecutons

the Vernon Jund)

In Apell 190T & disculos von hold botren an Agency representativ

nad ven waturses ma far suks of the NOM (vorld Contadoration of

Oremantions of the Tauching Frannion, concering Suture Anding for

wore Bonuse of publiosty conteming the snaing of luch by the Vertion Hand,

WCOw? londership promined Its manership that no further Vernon Fund anvey

mild ha secepted until the atatus of the Vernon Rud vus eltrifled. Jobn

HoNes felt that the best slution rould ba s meitine coly infusica si

money by atarize choct fato the flore banis nocout ta be hasketorped by a

Lotter sran the attordy for the Veron Find, Bryce rel, Yao would attribut

tho monoy to manher of the Vernon Ind Ioard so incrymounts sinhed to

promide come vita surflesent fonda to sover expenses untts, other spirdes

In My 1967 Moh 10es0N of tin leorp desoribed to sa Ayeney repre

sentative an intervier he had with Nike HACHANUS DE ITHC MICROISS en

I tier 1967 to munted to dincuss the erfects of perspises publicity on

sCor operations, MoMANa we especially Intarsated is uny eosnotes forged

on SCore sad a requent to proot of the valua of scom operations to ladividua

tenchen MIMPSOr felt that IneNius did not macend 1a gainine mitlodent

additional infomation fron the intarler to mirant urating lia projectel

For Remand

bosph - 17.60092

in adstatutantire orsion of

120

word Gon

Punching Profosaion.

a of Orentatione or thi

It was aot ponsible to identley a subjuot 1120 on sohn IncursCH

miayed by the verad Gorederation of Orgmientionn al the Fesching

Profesalone

SARIS OUTDATIOT

os andions muna nagative on the CADOR Foundation: (ENE Thosas De CABOT)

ricon Triends of tre Middig Dant O A3lu.37T and 965300

Amerscan irendo of the kiddle Bast (Projeot ZIm) was erated sa

NaT 2952 suit the purpose os enplaying aggreniro propaganda to promote

SECRET

4.03)

66, 60 day 1

---

## Page 4

the friendatip of peoples of the lear ma Hidade Fast. toward the

united Itsten me to entet omnina. Ie Ma Incorporated as a::

relentsy, monrorlt muborship corporation under the lus of New

Tor state, Doeothy 1p0cs columes, mus neieuted so cirirmas.

Is norty 2967 As racied i good dant of nepaper pulliesty coo

cerning itu heroy errilintion ancining artielen in tie sortet press.

naton Ans 1a setiva tant rigood the question of the armitzation'a

continue a mistenca in the tieht a alinentions pI Agary stranora?

mporty althoups, thare more ramiltago da Drig.

ent disinto ring

there In no pa rabiast sile on tho be sucrate Junt ho atteabed

memorantua dated 50 Janung 2901 Mrn Cler, Contria, Corus Coup to

Dojity Ilmentor, Plans - Munront of Exponure as Agoney Operaticas? a

statod that sAmAsts bis expreucad intense intrust in the Sea solate

Mas, and its sourons ol loade la particular, because It funda: 3 IBEPITC

nobirlilas (yenta affaire).

He De AR

mero 11 no 08 molect fle in the M. D. Amerior Foundation but

OB indian reflect a file on to 1b R. Abarcar lorite me tunor Tastit

A study progrem to detentae the effeate in diverse Blalagical Systeme

remiting Iron exposura to high intunalty coberont radiation va contractel

with the Mi.D. ArROr Loegital end Inor Totitute, taiviratty of

Ters; Hounts, Temn In October 2963 Tut an of 16 Apsi 196k there vas n

hots order nothit gains chid tith the contruct bucrane or # quration

nu to voy the Aymes shonta bon, the voio sost of the edatract nion une

to be to inter departmental une,. In May 1967 a nota 1a tha 1l1e Indicated

that M. Do Murreai Fositil and In Motitute w111 be engaged la classied

woes Sop the Arenayo Thoro no no record 0f & 220:m0n 1amed

MARSHALL FOERDIATOT

Ben attished morendon aston J0 Jinary 196T Man Clot, Central

Cover Grom to Degaty Direnter, Flus - Magus of Exposure of Aigemey

operaticas

TA MARTEALT Frandation of Ecauton, Min In conaldere

an of the mont vainerable to espoom

A "More Tort tines" artiale tor 25 Penrury 1967 Aleclosed that tha

KARTALI Pondation of Frator, Tani chubeled Funde fron the Agency to

the school of Industriaz and labor Relations it Cornell Waiveralty fron

290 t0 1963

(sea Deuten D. MAREKER)

SECRET

42d -4

---

## Page 5

Da 82 April 1965 bo ms creatue i Proviotonni Covart Erority Approral. to

Faculty Approval for this use un israd on 20 Jane

Lad a Covert

aths0e 02081490

SCHT, LUn - 195239.

Demn Each, President sod Direstor of EROil and Rodr, Ine., Houston,.

Ins nod Franident and Iruntee of the FROml FondatiCky Houston, Texas,

uns canted a Covert Security Approval on 3 Dacerier 2953

062700 15 Patert 1966,

FEARE, MA

He pirtin

15729e e - 4513051.

Coterner ALLEn SETVIS Of Tans was on the Martoony Icard. or

ALLen LIVIRa, Covernor of triao, via e signar of a statement appeartai

In the mw PORt TIms for 20 october 1949 aponnored by the Iron Curtada

Tofugod Conten of the Inbernationel. Rescue Comittoe. To JAC tus de

seribed an bantonly bood, huminitarien argentration tet sang individuale

o quationable leynty have been pasociated with 18.

A NEW TORI, TOS alipping for 12 Tebruary 1954 stated tat Alia

mrs, Oovernor of Temo, euld hs pumed to act his Inuielatire to

make mubarabi, in the commudst Party a denta pereity odiousu. He van

sunted as mang "ta palities pe biten speak er bipartin fatuan. I own

think of nothing that macula be more bipartiam then entching a commist

There con Do Do valia lIme betrat Anericans over Commist.

Amrictis

Moon Den

SECRET

1808/

18d.3

---

## Page 6

mons D. CABOY, so hot Hyproval for contact tre on 17 Aurot

1962,. At the time be una V1eo President end Irector of International st

Manna Futadteno nd Chemical Corporation, He ras restaing la Lausanne,

Evitrutonde: Contact Interent zaa for briefing him m Ayeney Interants

in oncuone end political developat in vardon turpet countries,

chune inatelal darlomont, ste to in the a fort of a tavorable

bacisconna trentiantion ia 1950

CAng, Thanga Didley = 18180l

mann Dudley CAld we santa a covert seetay approve

Approval.

PRELATI

CAT had been enorOVI

for contact une ta 1950 mid needina a clearance

A vanitizuntion as tale ascarence vas

Outaber 1953.

i 1i11at A2 - F16535

WINTER A SUITE

Megatin

32351, TRON - 1168200

Less aNONsKI sas aranted a corert facurity Approrai on 32 March 2058

In order that he cout de made vitting es Agency interest sa tha M. I.

AntsOn Sendation.

Eis illo contaion a newpoper clipping from tha

MARINETCH DAR AS 3 Decuber 1963 Mica coaceras Ain Eppodatment ea

opecial consoel fus n Turn Otata Court of Inqudy Into the assassination M

Prusident munate He had dotteved proninenot shen be tat provecutor

et the lurenpuro lar Fine In AntICle Also strted that in I960

JANCEST necenty represented lynton D. Jusay in 1 comt challenge

of be somer's right to bave his noi appear on the ameral electico

barot in tens both in a condidate fre Tice Precklent and Ipe reelection

to the Sto 8. Bennter Anotbar Itam Ia Le Go NINE A VOID KEPONY Bar 7 J22g

samos ve betas conaldered for the jou or Alterary Cenarao

SECRET

Paste

.:*.

WdET:be

66, 60 doo

---

## Page 7

FRATe Pola Hensy - $29/281

John Henry FREINAN iNs grantad i Covert Docurity Approval an 28

Ime 1957 to surnit the utillation of his services under Project IrcOMT.

At the tino bo me o partur. In tho Jorge and leading Lou Fire ot

FERICT, CROOKE, PRETAN, BATES EId JAWORSKI et Houston, Duran

Ind mun l truntes of the 1. De Alna00l Medioni Fondation. :

191577 Rad /5402050A

aneo Dashied Conta dre van speroved for contect 1100l

on 10 June 1953 and unn granted e Covart Becurity Clearance on 1 August 1953 do

Carcant, At the timo be mn Fresident

a$ tuo Dịl; companies la Eouston, lennes OlI Eroäuetton Intateranee, Ins.

and Production inintensa Compegy.:

MARSHALT, POUgLAN Be - 127235977

DOrInE D» MAREHATI, vaS peated a Covart Becrity Approval en 28

Novenber 1958 1n order that ho could be uie vitting of Arnoy laterest

In tho CuLIa FoundatinI MARIALI sni Vice President of the Quintana

Putrolan Corporation ot Ionaton, Tare sinich 10 the holdine company omed

Ly the Rush HOY CULTI ANLY, : MARABATIO MASO, MIirEt CUZZeN MARTHAI;

House Custo Culo - Asklogi and $214289

Ovata Culp HOts ma aranted o continuing 11a1sa clearnee on 7 Aprla 2933

when sho vis Diractor of the Federal, Focurity Ageney. A Covert decurity.

Approval vus laured 18 July 1951 to peralt her usa tader Proloat IPCORSI

On 26 October 1965 A ProvIEIaL

Secuty Approval vas crented to parmit contast, manennest und brieflog of

Mre. HOSDY an Pronident of the IChE Fondation 1a connection with her

posaible utiliention on m adunory comittee of a broadcauting setivity,

talvoralty of the A1r, diruotad et the studenta and Intolleotuals of.

Cubin A Corore Decurity Approril vis Luned 31 March 2966 primarily to uno ta

prestigu of her noe ma powition as sover for in/cube netivities and 1t 1

vas not empested that lars, Nichat would take in aotive day by day rose in

the suthritter.

TOESy WIlian Pettus.

40 1425359 on

: 142750724.

Ovuta Culp 1033r'8. 800, Willten Fettue HaBEl, In, bora 19 Menury

1938 at Hountor,: Temi, mis seourity ayprovad for coutact une en 23 May 1960.

At the time ha san Associata Battor of the HOUSTON POST, Ecuaton, Texas.

On 29 ame 1962 Do una crantod a Corort Securiti Aoreval to parit hio:

matting und

CANACKAIE®

SECKET

Deslotd.

Ce' CONU

---

## Page 8

HONEY Foundations: Os 82 Detober 1965 a POBA MaN Jesued to FORTY

ala Prorissmal alearanos ras fired into a Covert Beerity Approva

• 4 February 1900 for the sam ve

Barah To Hali

DEd 67 RAMPARTS

Homo dte 24 Hor

Memo dia 30

177 2/26/67

HIT 2/19/57

1(57-033-6

67

349 ARO

SECRET

WaBI: b0

6, 60 day.

---

