# 104-10183-10106

## Page 1

1041018210106,

..

DATE: 23 AUG 61

TO : MEXI

SECRET

CRYPTO SECURITY DOES NOT AFFLY. HANDLE AS SECRET CORRES.

FRECEDENCE:

INFO:

Anto

CITE: DIR

FOR SCOTT FROM DULLES

REF: MEXI 8667

This shown

181s his g

1. YOUR REF MOST ENCOURAGING. IT HAS BEEN THOROUGHLY DISCUSSED

WITH STATE AT DESK LEVEL AND TODAY I HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW

COPY TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND TO IMPRESS HIM WITH THE OPPORTUNITY

WHICH I FELT THIS AFFORDED. I TOLD HIM STATE COGNIZANT OF MATTER.

2. I DESCRIBED NATURE OF OUR RELATIONS WITH

AND

THAT ALL OUR ACTIONS CONNECTION THEREWITH FULLY COORDINATED WITH

AMBASSADOR. I POINTED OUT THAT

DID NOT TRUST ALL

AND HENCE DESIRED COVERT ROUTES FOR CERTAIN

TYPES OF ACTION AND PLANNING.

3. PRESIDENT KENNEDY MENTIONED CRITICAL PROBLEM IN CONNECTION

WITH U. N. VOTE ON ADMISSION COMMUNIST CHINA AND I BELIEVE HE WOULD

BE MOST INTERESTED IO KNOW WHETHER ANY LIKELIHOOD

EVAL

DIST

SOURCE_

RELEASED

ORIG OFF:

TOD:

DIST:

SUBJ FILE

CHRONO

COORD OFF:

RELEASING OFF:

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE

SECRET

CIA HAS NO GBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

asredocted

---

## Page 2

a trinid

SECRET

CRYPIO SECURITY DOES NOT AFFLY.

DATE:

TO :

HAi DLE AS SECRET CORRES.

PRECEDENCE:

INFO:

CITE:

PAGE IWO

COULD IN SOME WAY BE HELPFUL IN THIS SITUATION OR WHETHER IT BETTER

TRY OUI THIS CHANNEL FIRST IN SOME WAY WHICH MIGHT POSE LESSER

DIFFICULIIES FOR HIM.

4. SUGGEST YOU DISCUSS FOREGOING WITH AMBASSADOR TELLING HIM

I HAVE NOT YET PERSONALLY TAKEN UP THIS PARTICULAR IDEA WITH

SECRETARY OF STATE AND WOULD PREFER TO GET YOUR JOINT VIEWS

BEFORE DOING SO AS WE HAVE THE TIME FOR THIS. 1 FEEL PERSONALLY

HOWEVER THAT WE SHOULD MAKE SOME EARLY EFFORT TO FOLLOW UP ON

OFFERJAND TEST OUT IIS POSSIBILITIES.

S. KINDLY LET ME HAVE YOUR JOINT VIEWS AS BASIS FOR DISCUSSION

WITH STATE.

SOURCE

RELEASES

ORIG OFF:

TOD:

DIST:

SIEU FILE

C=2:50

_EVAL

COORD OFF:

DIST

IT IS. FORBIDDEN TO CCFE OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE

SECRET

IM/2

---

