# 104-10140-10108

## Page 1

104-10140-10108

CONFIOGUREA

120 SCH

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Addendum to Journal- Office of Legislative Counsel

Wednesday - 2 November 1977

HSCA

5-14

Secuity/ Cleanses

That

Furxisted

Page #

13. (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Received a call from Helen

Hudson, staff of Representative Lucien Nedzi (D., Mich.), who noted that

James Pyrros, also of Mi. Nedzi's staff, had asked her to call concerning

the long-standing interest of the Agency in gaining access to the Library of

Congress SCORPIO Data System. She outlined a procedure for transmitting

a formal application to Subcommittee of the Federal Library Committee.

I told her I appreciated the information.

14. (Confidential - DTC) LIAISON Was visited by Professor G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on Assassination

here at Headquarters. We discussed certain general topics relating to the

Committee investigation and Mr. Blakey met with Sidney Stembridge, DD/OS,

for a short time to discuss security matters. The remainder of MI. Blakey's

visit is covered in a Memorandum for the Record.

I also provided Mr. Blakey with unclassified letters from Robert

Gambino, D/OS, concerning security clearances of members of the Committee

staff.

15. (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Called Peg Pokusa, Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence staff, and told her that the constituent inquiry

which she sent to us asking President Carter to seek the release of nine

U.S. military personnel imprisoned in the Soviet Union should be referred

to DOD. I had already called Col. Stephen Harrick, DOD Legislative Affairs,

to confirm that he would handle this. He said he would tell Ms. Pokusa

that there was no substance to the reports that these men were being held

in a Soviet prison.

GEORGE L. CARE

Legislative Counsel

CC:

0/DDCI

03

Mr.

Ex.

Sec

il=.

Lagham

Mr. Hetu

SA/DO/O

IC Staff

Comptroller

NFAC

19059

---

