# 104-10128-10363

## Page 1

104-10128-10363

SEP 2 5 1965

Chalrman. Honor Awarde Board

Acting security sardoor. HAB

Hones Awards Rocommendation

Rel: Mano for Chalran, HAB did 12 Sept 56 from Mr. Robert Me Gaynor -

Sub ect: Approva, ol Pending Honir Arra Loca

mandallen

I. Reference memo requented that the Acting Security

Advisor to the HAB revlew the cases contained therein to determine

If the citations and awards, whon proderd, may be retained ly Bae

recipents. With repoct to this requost, the following retemmendatien

are submitted:

1. Recotamendation by the Seeurtty Adrioes to the

HAS that awards and eltalions should not be phystenlly

releaned into the rocipient's personal curtody i FCE

overseas antil he return to Headquarters PCS l0 craftemad.

In such cases there will be no security objectican to

notllying the tultrida! that he had bees awarded the medal.

such notifiention should inform the reciplent of aay

appropriate security restrictions relating to the award.

(1) Ebrat Frederation: Roger Golran.

Joseph C. Goodus,

There would be no escurity ob-

joctions to giving the citation and awaré lato thalr

personal custody subjoc: to paragraph la above.

However, with respect to Mr. Coodwin, d 16

recommeadod that upon his roturn FCE to the lates.

so case be revieved for posalble encurtsy and cover

implications before phylcally releasing late hin

personal custody the citation and award. The above

with respect to Colrant

and Goodwin Ins th

Informal concurrence of the Deputy Chiel, NEA

Diviaion, The Deputy Chief, FE Diviaten Informally

concurred in the above regarding Mr.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

6/p8

---

## Page 2

14-00000

40696

SUBJECT: Honor Avarde Recommendations

03

(2) Socond Prosestations Earl 11. Marter

(rhoodora J. Romeos. The Deputy Estol, SE Divlalen

on % September 1956 recommended Ifarmnlly that

for operational reasons the matar of giving thi

sitations and amarta into thair peresaal custody

bo doterraned at some later date.

(3) Third Presentations (ola I. Sateloye!

James w. Lalz) Rocommendation

contined in paragraph le above. °3

11) Fonth Parsonation: Tracy C. Somes;

David Ae

Phillipe. NosterD. Sancher,

There would be no secuitty abjectienn to giving

103

those citations and awards into thats personni

custody sujoct to parentaph in shove and cortat

stipalution as preserted balew by the Divinlan

concerned.

(a) The Deputy Chlal, WH Diviaion

Informally recommended en 81 Septerber 1956

that tho citations pertutning to the above

persons should be marked iCIA Eternal

Use Only", (It to noted that the projoct wish

which those awards are concerned van within

to partedletton of the HH Divinion.

(b) The Deputy Chief, WH Divlaten

aloo itatod that Ms. Phillips to now wader

non-ofticial cover and he laformally requested

that the citallen and ward not be phyatcally.

«leaned into MT. Phillips' personal enstody

while to lo under such cover and leo inquested

that this mattor be reviewed at nome later date.

(c) Regarding Mr. Bencher, the Deputy

Chief, NEA Informally requested that stace

Mr. Sanches unn out of the Stater PCS for

8/1V

---

## Page 3

14:00000

SUBJECT: Honor Awade Recommendation

that Dirteted, that for nocunty nod conor reasons

Bes matter ef phylee! release of both the

eltatios and avard to Mi. Sanchero personal

custody ho considored spon his retur PCS to

the Statos.

(d) Rogarding lêr.

• Com

mentions employee, the Deputy Chief.

Commication. Division informally atated

on 21 september 1956 that for securly and

cover reasons the matter el phyalesl polarne

o both the clatten and award to Mr.

personal custody be considered upan hin

retarn PCS to the States.

(0) The Deputy Chlol. WH Dirtedon

informally recommended on I1 Septemker

1956 that bir.

he notified of his award

but neither the citation or award be phyafeally

delivered tuto his parsonal cuntody.

03

1'z (5) Filth Prosentation

Recommeniation centalned ta parrerunh la above

encept that in the case of Al.

& Colonel Boberg

of she Ollice al Banic Intelligence reginated that

thin citation be marked "CIA Internht Une Only".

n'3 (6) Stoch Prosentatlans Cantedro Bargala.

Reconomenantion contained In

egraph ln shove.

03 17) Seventh Preseninion: Phille G. Bower.

Recommendation

contained in paragruph la abovo escept that la the

Case of lAt, Dower, Colonal soberg of the Olfice of

Bante Inolligence requested that this eltation be

mathed "CIA Internal Uee Only".

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SUNJECI: Henor Awarde Rocommendations

03

03.10

sonal on:

Rocermentation co

hoverar, rogarding ir. Frye, the nashve Officet.

I's mormally steted on 31 Septembor 1986 that the

conditions us bot lorth in sarmo fer Chairman, FAt

(sabjort: (Tsyo, Enaford D - Recommendation for

Intelligence Model of Merit) am Securtly herber.

HAB. Astod 7 June 1956, and not changed. la vlow

of this, he informnily requented that tan physterl

relazos of the cilation end award into the persoaal

entedy of Ar. Frye)nes to mada at this Asso.

03

(9) Ninth Presentation: Willem H. Marr

(posthumors) Focess recommendalion by the

Security Advisor, FAB in his sero ol & Jure 1956

With respoet to the leune. of this suard i confirmed.

2. la addition to tho abovo, the matter el pablietty regaretag

these awarde la pointed out.

..-3

Distribatton:

31 • 08 Fles!

¡ - FS/08 Fileo

1 • Chrome

RS/RS: WNW mich

---

