# 104-10185-10155

## Page 1

104-10185-10155

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ThIS ISLAMAl CON LALDA SLIONALABANA AÑACHLAS RDA RAGINEAl DeÍOBBA Ol LA LAlled Biates MEDiA lSO ICiniDE Of the LApiOnAGO LASA TIto

1d. 08.d. New in and th the inaunhaion or rereiston of thich ln any manner lo na unsuitarised person la pradialied oy law.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY, Cuba

SUBJECT (Inu) CHAIN, pseudonym "Agusto"

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS 61-3/781,989

26 June 1964

NO. PAGES •

4

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

DiTE OF

1964

INFO.

Jackground Use Only.

PLACE &

Washington, D.G.

• Do Not Reproctvoe

DATE ACQ. Maÿ, 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: - A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Correat. The following report is one of a series

containing personality information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

3

1

STATE

DIA

AEHIY

RED

CINCLANT

(Mote: Field distribusion indicated by '=")

(fnu) CHAIN, pseudonym "Agusto", resides in Cuba and is the

Deputy Chief of the Direccion General de Inteligencia DGI

General Directorate of Intelligence) under Manuel PINEIRO.

CHAIN works out of "y" Headquarters and handles large

expenditures for the DGI, approval of false passports for

traveleis and matters coucerning Souch Anerica.

the title

"inspector" is often used as a cover for travel of DGI and

•Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (DSE - Department of

State Security) officers abroad

State Saunt estates 23e, Blo is not an

Headquarters Comments.

1.

Source was questioned concerning the possibility of (fnu)

CHAIN being Identical with Carlos Sixto CHAIN

source did not know the name or if "Agusto" was ever

assigned to the Cuban delegation to the Organization of

American States (OAS) in Washington, D.C. The subjects

of the following name traces,

therefore, may possibly

be identical with ({nu) CHAIN, pseudonym

the above report.

"Agusto", of

2.

In a docurent dated 15 September 1958 a fairly reliable

source reported the following information on a

Carlos

CHAIN (Gustavo):

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I NAVY

• 1 AlR

CINCSO F

ISNS.

INSA

testeded tre colord

I OCR

I FBI 2

HE7S 7

7E0B| 11 HE/5/R

CILIA

:.OB: 1/ WE/MADR

#/S3/CI

14

RID/AY

IF. IAVE.

11

TGYALE

bifi/S.A 7 (1),

WE 1 (2), CI %,.

RID

165.40 ,

Arin++K + 80+499859000.7875

ITIS

1

18-1339

NO PROJECT

(AMMUG 1)

CSC1-3/781, 959

COORDINATING RELEASINGO

1K: L0:16

CANTON

201÷340576

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NO FOREIGN DISSES

∞ 2 =

115281788

On 30 August 1955 CHAIY, national coordinato. of the

26th of July Revolutionary soverent and whose responsib

ility it was to effect unity anong Cuban political

opposition groups, was arrested at tre Santiago central

check point when a soldier, identified his as a former

rebel; he was returning fior a seeting with Raul CASTRO.

The Cuban army was Unaware of CHAIN's connection with the

26th of July Movement.

b.

On 11 Septerber 1958, after prolonged interrogation by

maastary auchorities,

CHAIN confessed he had been

forces of Raul CASTRO, but did not

confess his cornection with the rebel moveceat.

of the 26th of July Soverent feared CHAIN would be put

to death by the autrorities.

3. A usually reliable source in a report dated 8 January 1963 stated

that Carlos CHAIN Soler departed Cuba by air for lexico City on

22 February 1962.

4.

During a debriefing of a Cuban source on 19 Decerber 1962 the

following Information was provided on Carlos CHAIN Soler, First

Secretary of the Cuban delegation to the Organization of Arerican

States (OAS) in Washington, D.C., until February 1962 when Cuba.

was expelled frow the OAS:

ChAIN' fros the Cuban Ministry of Interior-

who held the rank of captain,

was a security officer

He acted as

to Carlos LECHUGA Hevia,

the head of the Cuban

delegation

to the OAS.

his duties involved the

sending of messages fron the Delegation to Cuba.

ESCARRA, a Third

Secretary to the Delegztion,

was the code

clerk who received his orders for sending tessages from CHAIN.

b.

CHAIN sent coded messages by teletype or by a sachine at

the Delegation which transritted cessages directly to the

Ministry of Foreign Affairs (SINREX) in Habana.

and coded messages were sent in this tanner.

dessages were

also relayed through the Mackay radio systen.

at the Delegation relayed the message to the lackay radio

CHAIN often

sent messages via the lackay radio which

not known to LECHUGA.

ESCARRA told Source that, the

systens used for MINREX mesSages and for the Presidential

Palace ressages were quite different.

He said the lackay

radio system was a more

secure system which the Soviets had

assisted in providing

and had also given the instructions for

its use, CHAIN used the name "Augusto" in signing messages.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

C.

d.

€.

1.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 3 .

613781131

CHAIN was in contact with an Australian

(name unknown)

in Washington, D.C.!

whose friend was

allegedly the head

of an anti-Castro orginization.

On one occasion in

CHAIN gave Source $100.00

to five to the Australian to

travel to Coral Gables, Florida,

reporting on anti-castro mativities.

over to CHAIN. The

tu-ned over similar naterial to la contact in

MAIN worked closely with Jose MOLEON Carreras,

the Cuban

delecate,to the Inter-American Defense Staff of the oAs

in hashington; D.C,

AOLEOY was actively engaged in

gathering infornation and in buying publications concern

ing southern U.S. ports, U.S. Defense Department books,

Source was not sure if MOLEON worked under the

direction of CHAIN.

Source recalled that CHAIN often appeared as though he

were afraid of ESCARRA who was a

"Vieja Guardia" (Old

Guard Corrunist)..

Source felt that CHAIN was not a

member of the Farty.

CHAIN graduated from high school in santiago de. Cuba,

a:though he entered the University there as an

engineering student,

he did not complete his studies.

He worked in his father's grocery store in Palma

Soriano, Oriente Province and was a school teacher at

the Escuela de Cuadres Femeninos in Habana. In 1957

he was in the Sierra Maestra mountains as a captain in

the Rebel Army.

In 195S he was in the Isle of Pines

In early 1959 he ras appointed "Coordinator

Provincial de Oriente."

In this position he maltreated

the people of Santiago de Cuba, and an appeal was made

directly to Fidel CASTRO who made a trip to Santiago de

Cuba to personally investigate the trouble. As a result

of CASTRO's visit,

CHAIN was transferred from Santiago

de Cuba to a renoté location in the eastern part of

Oriente Province.

The transfer was made only to appease

the populace of

Santiago de Cuba and did nöt mean that

CHAYN claims to be close friends with Fidel CASTRO and

Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ Rodriguez.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 4

NO FELICS DISSE:

573181119

Source

identified CHAIN' is being born about 1935 ir

Oriente Province,

five inches tall,

isving dark eyes

and black rair and a slin build.

is married and has one chiid, a boy.

5. A usually reliable source in a report dated 5 June 1954 stated

the Departrent of Regioral Politics

in the Foreign Office in 1962 and also worked witz Casan

intelligence.

Prior to 1962 ke itsended the Departarezto de

Seguidad del Estado (DSE • Departuent of Stase Security)

training course. Source sald that CHAIN was bora about 1940.

6:

A source with good access to travel information reporied that one

inspector of Embassies. On 13 June 1964 he left Mexico City for

SECR

•E T

NO FORSION

DISSEN

---

