# 104-10186-10168

## Page 1

104-10186-10168

SNFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATIONARERORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

IIO MALETIAI CONINIA NPOITUANOS AIACUNE IN NALIONA DIIERA DI UO UUILAd SUASTE TIRIN IO MMNINE Of IA EIDIORATO LAWH IIC

18. B8C

Boch, 999 and I9l, tDe ernnmratenIoe of pprplalion of which in iny manner to na unautborned pernon s prohibiend or inu

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cu b#

REPORT NO.

CS CT-316/01255-65

SUBECT "Garcia" (an allas)

DATE DISTR.

18 March 1965

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

NO. PAGES "

REFERENCES

C8-311/00115-64

(Page 10)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

196%

PLACE & Nashiogton,

D. C.

DATE ACO, March 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

TÑIS. I$ UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUACE GRADINOS-AME DEFINITIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A forner Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until Aprll 1964.

Headquarters. Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing personality

information provided

by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

first checking with thia Agency.

Escuelas Especiales (the Department of Spectal Schools

"Caspee te olo de artmentaur Spe dy the Dopart mento

of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia' (General Directorate

of Intelligence - DGI).

"Garcia" was born in about 1920.

He is about five feet

Inches tall,

weighs approximately 170, and has a large build

Ils complexion is swarthy and his hair is crev.l

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information

on "Garcia."

5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STAYE

DIA

ARAT

REP

CISCLANT

I NAVT

Т лій

CINCSO #

I&NS

(Noror-Fioll disribution indrrrnd by "#")

INFORMATION REPORT

WI• CLCA

W.C/IO

ML/C/RR

ML.C8R:OS5I

HIL. MIVE

TOTALA

1! HE SIR

WE

ICI/LLA

WL CURIiA

LE

3JE

LL/KISH

LRID/AS

WH/C 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CI I, EID 1

I NSA

1XkX

wou tm"

IFBI 2

INFORMATION REPORTA

LX 2510

NO PROJECT(AWUG/

CSCI-316/01255-65

1:ar8d9

19-5-1

OORDIMATINGU

2EL*9)

BS LD:5 VIBR

ICLEE

---

