# 104-10413-10383

## Page 1

110410413-10383

SECRET

2 3 00T 1975

nur Revice Stare

Bonuty Diroctor for dininistration

Senate Sainct Coanictos

datod 39 soydouber 1075. Forruing Copies of STEal doesnorts

iron the office of security files conceraina

Moso documente vere requested byair. Jeffrag Payles,

coloce Lonnieroe Graff, mo conchoeu a roriew of te

gios on 20 Sentenbor 1975.

2.

To carice of Security bes cancloued a sscarzes tories

0x 133

1Eil05 230 ha5

cortain contonts thorao?

die. Senato Ebisez Cadsicces

Latopenions of say Senate

State rogues tsuntos

lue Clios contain a rau, morolnitos regore

F202

Jeontaining his roporting or an ailer

terray Oswald is

in testos:

1gy in the minter si 1962, having coaract vich

= 0:503.

(retached to landont monorantee, Too do is

oriniac rerost,

comments, seggesting receipt of the report serca

Z0 December 1963.)

Readily

available public and Office of

security information concernino Oswald makes

se reference to the possibility of his bein

in New YorK City in

the Winter of 1962.

warren Commasion. did not: pursue such a line

uf inquiry:

Document Number

1352-1060

for FOlA Roviaw on

MAR 1977

9003

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Tura is no avidoncs in chel

files or

the file of the suurco, Enrique Razonto Shascal

(v. Foronguer), 8730043,

that

this inforgation

vos processed out of the defice of secaris;l

Security Research Stafa, to sbica

reporto.!

the inforsxtion.. Horover, is

Tigates

Ciscreport:

•I urged Abascal

13. 30.70

the

with the incoraation,

and offared to

30520:C 2

secting.

to provisod

co:toll the.

the

and made contace through do agent (O'Arien)

whou no lacs socouse of past ictivities.

Foyarding Abascal.

his office of Focurisy

file

contains the rollerine concomint

his

raIscity:

Ofrico of Socurity/security Research

Senfo sonoranine Sated 15 Aunt

igot:

Mascal has

for several year;

Furnisted

inforsation

to 51.5

proven to be utterly morthless and

usually

fictitious

offics of security/Security Hescirc

Stuff tenorandan

Eaten Today 1913:

'(Ahaocaly has Furaished Source mit:

inchligence information bich donoars

io be congiete fabrication:

3 Sentenbor 1003 coatinned

Horinion!?

¿crocrata Cristimo. (6):

contairs

folloviao statecents about dingsai

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

It 15 separat the office

ni gecurity/.

Socurity desserci

Store had

103600 10

question cie veracitr of Muscal prccladia.

further ciosemination of the intorarion;

and that tiero was a reason to believe

shot abascal would robert the Inforcacion

to ihe: 1XI for thair action:

Arlinaton Douse, dunlishers

Tho files concain a rug, saevaluated

ruburt FIos

of

containing his

Igortiar

as allogation taos ClA had Partix?

сортов ск,

2i:8 once

attenated full control

Arlington louse, publishero.

Attachet to instaas Desorandua, Rasca

is 20N of

original

resort is woll

as copies of stondant documents.

The files

cruisin no Lurther clarification of the

intomizion.)

moro is no desica or Sacialed gusject

1320

in to none or Arlinuten Rouse or

Publisheree

Fror othar sources

that arlington touse,

Astisters

con-

nected vian the concorvaris

Causes

Militan7. Luctley sau cherntlom!

07834

Lachley is a forber Arogey Coplayse

His close somections vitafomer Agonsy

chayne to 104a1Y tit

ors racenti;

ricolved crousive gublicity. 1: 15

pallaved Chat sunerous ferner Neency

espiorces aro linked vira Suckley's causes.

6000111n

• !.

i-ii

**:.

SD3R57

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SEGRET

Tonn

is agein dirgetod to tiù coaceras o

i.!?

office of securiE:

13

sharesson in the Infcrenced noco-

that. the

Pils ocunnito and ali statanonts

canined therein, ays"

chough

not classifica

and prudently

sandied

as suci,

to protect the individuals

ioniciod therein.

Robert

Caribino

Director of Security

dies

Distribuzion:

-Alaresses x/ates

-UDA w/s atts

1 - D/Security w/o atts

i-

US Registry w/o atts

(1DD PSI. watts:

1 - SAG w/atts

File watts

O5/PSI/SAG/J6Brovn: jan (210CT75)

---

