# 104-10150-10056

## Page 1

104-10150-10056

03

MEMORANDUS FOR:

Chief, CI Staff (Attn: Mr

Chief, ST Division (Attn: Mr. Mathews)

roctor of security (Attn: Mr. Reardon

Director of Medical Services (Attn: Dr

Bohrer)

Chief, PCS/LOC/DO (Attn: Mr. Shepanek)

Mr. John Hart

Attached is the "final draft" of the script for the

HSCA staff presentation on 15 September. Due some

time ago it arrived this morning, We requested that

all new sections and changes be marked, to facilitate

this review (the earlier draft having boen reviewed

already).

The notations in the margins are for this

purpose.

It is requested that this be given priority attention.

Please advise me as soon as you are ready for _comment..

Klein (the HSCA staffer handling this) had wanted our

comments back by today, which the timing of receipt has

interfered with, but we should do as well as possible.

Breckinridge -

Date

12 September 1978

C075 101 US PREVIOUS

---

## Page 2

TS 78053312

Deviis B, It d

Comments on Klein's"Final Draft"

Ly O/St Dins. Thi Totheris

r. 5

- Delete Murphy's name unless this already in public

record

1. 8-81 - Detailed description of Nosenko's treatment highly

for effect it would have on future potential

defectors:

Hould much prefer this be dcleted if at

all possible.

More generalized descrintion in first

draft much preferable.

P. 10

- Delete name Thomas mán

J. 18

- Delete name of Thoras Pran

1:.. 25

Delete name-of Tomhas Ryan in para 13. Substitute

"the

CI. officer who"

P: 35 -

Delete name David "urphy inxpas unless already in

nublic record

22

007

---

