# 104-10433-10212

## Page 1

1104-70433-10212

1 319,

---

## Page 2

13-00000

APPEALS KEVERS FORM

319

1ab@-52 contains Dispatch UFGA-29877 dated 11 Agr. 1168

( Previously denied from do o

0c) Segregable

portions pi

xcised portons cxeRbEc

under

OF FOIA

() Located during the DO appeals review.

() Roforred to DO for review by

further description, identification, comnents, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND:

() Sustain initinl denial in toto under exemption(s)

()

ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (5)

of

()

Sustaln initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

of

ADD exemption (g)

(3 DROP Cention)

Relense additional incormation

with excised portions exempted under

(5)/11 (0)

of F018

(.? Deny document lui toto under exemption(s) -

of

1. I Relgase a

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

+ 775591878

The exumptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from i foreign liaison service

Informat lon

Informat lon

pertaining to a

foroign liaison relationship

which would/could identify the

source

Information pertaining

to

a source

Informatlon portaining

Location

to intelligence nothods

of CIA overseas installation

Location

ot unacknowledged domestic installation

Nune

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal

organizational data

Name

FBI

of FBI agent

file nunber

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

luring

the DDO classification review, this document which was narked

ECRET

was:

maintaincd

classified

dancitized

desire to Considential

Ci.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

.570

TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

FILE NO

• NONE

DATE

• BE APRIL 1968

INDEXING

* NONE

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MIcRo. DER.

MICROFILM * NONE

TO

- CHIEF

INFO

FROM

- CHIEF,

- CHIEF

CHIEF

SUEJECT

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREAIMENT OF THE DEAIN OF

MARIIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE

OF THE MARTIN

LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION-DURING IHE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED BY THE

GRANMA /HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CURAL, É APRIL 58, FRONI PAGE - LAST MINUTE NEWS - MANTIN LUINER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U,S.A. ACCORDING IO FIRST REPORIS,

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE."•

WAT GRANMA, I APRIL, FRONI PAGE • ""IWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULI OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING.

TON ALONE THERE ARE 758 WOUNDED AND 4, 186 PERSONS ARRESTED SNIPERS

CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN INE U.S. THE WHITE

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD. ' OFULL INFORMATION.

CHANGA, & APRIL, LAST PAGE - 'TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

• BRON. * WASHINGTON, @ APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFP:

FRENCH TENS AGENCY ANX

LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,

URGING THE NEGHO REOPLE OF WASHINGION TO GO TO RICIMOND TO LIBERATE

: jIME LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGHOES TO FORM A MOTOR

•CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY

TELE POUCH

PAGE ONE

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Bald -

MezE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

TELE POUCH

PAGE TWO

A, GRAMMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED "PRINCIPAL

JEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S""", BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE

¡AYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE

IOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

MONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCAIE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONGRESS OF RACIAL

QUALITY / CORES, STUDENT NON-VIOLENI COONDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,

LACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSIONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

ATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /IAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

EACONS, AND "THE UOS.'' THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS AME

ENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO=

: IATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL

IRBAN LEAGUE; AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFEHENCE

SaLC/ •

É GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - NATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO

LAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUIBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S. *

XA GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ASHACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO

ND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN,**

LiF GRANMA, LAPRIL, LAST PAGE - JOTHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE. .

IS: GRANA, É APRIL, LAST PAGE - MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

TRUGGLE. *

ÓM RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/

APRIL, CUP DONE AND 12 NOON - THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA

F THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRÖNT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

O AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

ING.

THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

ARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

F THE UNITED STATES. *

**THE MESSAGE OF THE VIEINAMESE MISSION IU

AVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

LL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES

'S TO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF INE SIRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,

TELE POUCH

PAGE TWO

+ 799)

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE THREE

ID THAI THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENILY TO FUT AN END TO ALL THE

PRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH

NDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE

JUNIRY.**

GET RADIO LIDERACION, I APRIL, REP POLO -ASSIONELY CARMICHAEL,

¿ADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID • AWE NEGROES MUST AHM OUNSELVES WITH

IFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE SIREETS OF IME

ITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.'

ARMICHAEL PREDICIED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN IHE SIREETS AS

RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICIED THAT THE

IOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

EATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

ITIES.**

RAIS RADIO HABANA, APRIL, IPOM A SONS PRING"S VERTH SHOWS

NCE

AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOIIED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY

IOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.?•

AN RADIO PROGRESO, É APRIL, ILE P.M. M JICARMICHAEL SAID

URING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT. *A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE

N. ASSASSINATING DR, KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE

ENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO: PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN

HE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACIS OF VIOLENCE, THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL

E NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION," CARMICHAEL ADDED: -

SERIOUS INCIDENIS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

SEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME

COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING:

NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

AKE PLACE, GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES

ECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST

•HE POLICE.*

STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

IFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN REOPLE AND THEIR

LADER, FIDEL CASINO RULE

TELEPOUCH

PAGE THREE

---

## Page 6

13-00000.

TELEPOUCH

PAGE FOUR

13O RADIO HABANA, $ APRIL, É PAN. A NAIUAN MARI, BRAS,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

¡ICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING SIATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBIEDLY PRE-

CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO. PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES

IGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT. ' A

ÁRIT RADIO HABANA, S APRIL, I POM. Á BATHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAI

IF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICÄN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI

'ATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE

ISSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.'' ''THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE

IMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A QWE BEG YOU TO

:XPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

JUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER MIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH

SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV

ING GENUINE LIBERATION WILL HELP. STRENGIHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE

¡FRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A

OTAL CONFRONTATION. ' AS

REM RADIO MABANA, I APRIL, ÁS POM. A AJAGUSTIN /GONZALEZI.

ARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE

FINIS. GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY

HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OLER. NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

ITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS. * 25

RADI

RADIO HABANA, Y APRIL, I P.M. A JREVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR;

§ THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - AHIS BROTHERS, INE AMERICAN

EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM NIS DEAIN. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE IHAT

HEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGMITY AND DECORUM HAS DEEN

RUSHED , WILL COME BACK. TO LIFE AFIER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND

TELEFOUCH

PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 7

13-0000,0

TELE POUCH

PAGE FIVE

¡ILL RISE FROM THEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINGIBLE ARMY.' E

DUM PROLO LIBERACION, I APRIL, Y PUM. A EDISORLAL COMMENTS

RITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

SAYING INAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE. SOMARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT

REACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE.

HE DID NOT

INLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED MIN DOWN. '•

LET RADIO HABANA, 'AFRIL 6B, PER POM. A "JOHNSON POSTPONED

¡IS TRIP. HE CALLED IHE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR

ESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TÒ THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON

ELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE

INSPIRED COMMENIS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING... THESE ACTIONS AND THESE

LORDS HIDE FEAR OVER INE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS SIARTING IO

SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. ' JYAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-

VATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHI BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASN WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE

JNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

FAR-REACHING EFFECIS ARE HARD TO PREDICT.'* JOTHE ASSASSINATION OF

TARIIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE.'•

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A

2 A

TELEPOUCH

PAGE

FIVE

3T

---

## Page 8

13-0.0000

5%.:

IELE POUCH

DISP NO

FILE NO

DATE

• PO APRIL

1968

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

O SUNDARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF

MARIIN LUTHER KING, IAI APRIL 1968

IKE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN

LUTKER KING

ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED

ENT

GRANDA /HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBA/, 1 APRIL 63, FRONT PAGE - "LASI MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A• ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORIS

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A "WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE.""

JIT. GRANNA, A APRIL, FRONT PAGE - 'IWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S, AS A RESULT OF INE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE IHE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-

TON ALONE IMERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4, 186 PERSONS ARRESTED. SNIPERS

CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN INE U.S. THE WHITE

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARDO' /FULL INFORMATION

GIVEN. /

3

EXT GRANKA,

I APRIL, LAST PAGE • "'TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

• BROiN. '"

•"/WASHINGION, APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFP,

FRENCH

NEX'S AGENCY AMX

LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,

URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASKINGION TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE

RAP BROWN.'' SUTHE LEAFLEIS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-

CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY, '*

IELEPOUCH

PAGE ONE

A ARROWE

rica

---

## Page 9

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TWO

4 GRANNA, & APRIL, LASI PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED •PRINCIPAL

NEGRO ORCANIZATIONS IN THE U.5.'"

,. BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE

THAT

NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS • THE

VIOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES.

IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCAIE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONCRESS OF RACIAL

EQUALITY / CORE/, SIUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COUMITTEE /SNCC/,

• BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSIONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

PAIROL, REVOLUIIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, INE BLACK GUARDS, THE

DEACONS, AND "'THE U.S."'• THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE

MENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO-

CIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF

COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL

URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUIKERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFEKENCE

I SCLC/ .

GRANA, & APRIL, LAST PAGE - ATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO

BLAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAX OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE UOS."

' GRANA, FAPRIL, LAST PAGE - SRACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO

AND

WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN®

WE CRANIA, E APRIL, LASE PAGE - EITHE AUERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE. "

GRANA, l APRIL, LAST

PAGE - **MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

STRUGCLE®* •

$=

RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS!

6 APRIL, IMP- AMO AND 1Z NOON - 'THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION IO CUBA

OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

TO AFRO-ALERICANS ON THE ASSASSINAIION OF IME LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

KING. THIS DESSACE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED

AGAINST

• MARTIN LUTHER KING UNUASKS THE EVIL FACE OF INE RULERS AND RACISTS

OF THE UNITED SIATES.*

*THE MESSAGE OF THE VIEINAMESE MISSION IN

NAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH IHE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULES OF THE UNITED SIATES

IS TO FOUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF IME STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TWO

---

## Page 10

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE ThhEE

AND THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENILY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE

OFFRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH

HINDERS INE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE

COUNTRY."*

Di RADIO LIBERACION, & APRIL, REP P.M.

- GUSTOKELY CARMICHAEL,

LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID • AWE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH

RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF IKE

CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION""

CARMICHAEL PREDICIED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS

A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICIED INAT THE

VIOLENCE WHICH MAS BEEN UNLEASNED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

DEAIN WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

CITIES.""

ONCE AGAIN THAI THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER MEACIIONARY

VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.*=

dIM RADIO PROGRESO, & APRIL, I P.M. I SYCARMICHAEL SAID

DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT •A SERIOUS MISTAKE KAS BEEN MADE

IN ASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-

MENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN

THE CITIES, NOI IÓ COMMIT ACIS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS INAT

17 WILL

BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-CUT REVOLUTION, ' CARMICHAEL ADDED -

* SERIOUS INCIDENIS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEAINS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME

COMMITIED ACAINSI DR. KING, NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

•TAKE PLACE: GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD IHROUGH THE CITIES

BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENI THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST

THE POLICE, STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR

LEADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZA'

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TARGE

---

## Page 11

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

FACE

FOUR

13º RADIO HABANA,

MAN, MEN ARUN MAGE DEME,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENI. FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

RICO, MADE INE FOLLOWING

STATEUENTS IN

A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-

CIPITATE THE REBELLION

OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES

AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT. GE

EAT RADIO HABANA, S APRIL, I PON. Á DITHE EXECUTIVE

SECRETARIAI

OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-

ZATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE

ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KINGO'' *THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE

AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A AWE BEG YOU TO

EXPRESS TO INE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND

TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

OUR

DEEPESI SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

SIRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH

SROWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-

ING GENUINE LIBERATION -WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE. OF THE

AFRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A

TOTAL CONFRONIATION.®

stif

EAT RADIO HABANA, & APRIL, POM. MSSAGUSTIN /GONZALEZA

MARTINEZ; BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING:

STATENENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - JAY THE TRAGIG DISAPPEAFANCE

OF THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEASI NELP IO SPEED UP INE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY.

WHEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

WITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS. S

STA RADIO HABANA, E APRIL, P.M. I LOREVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR

• OF THE PRESDYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, MAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

STATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - ANIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN

NEGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROW HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST

ASSURE THAT

THEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGMIIY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN

CRUSHED A WILL COGE BACK

TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND

TELEPOUCH

PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 12

13-00000

TELE POUCH

PAGE FIVE

WILL MISE FROM THEIR CRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY, MS-

dEN- RADIO LIBERACION, É APRIL, M P.M. I EDITORIAL COMMENTS

CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

SAYING THAI THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE.. YAMARIIN LUTHER KING DID NOT

PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT

UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUI VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN, "*

GET RADIO HABANA, E APRIL 68, TRE POO JOUNSON POSTPONED

HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR

LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE.

JOHNSON

APPEARED ON

TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE

INSPIRED COMMENIS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE ACTIONS

AND THESE

WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUSI VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARING IO

SPREAD IHROUGH THE UNITED SIATES,'" SYAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-

NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE

UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE

UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

FAR-REACHING EFFECIS ARE HARD TO PREDICT. ASIKE ASSASSINATION OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

SIRUGGLE, * *

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

TELEPOUCH

PAGE FIVE

---

## Page 13

13-0,0000

5P

SRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

* UFGA-29871

FILE NO

DATE

- NONE

11

• AN APRIL 1958

INDEXING

• NONE

MICROFIIMED

APR 15 1968

DOC

MiCro, sER.

MICROFILM

— NONE

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

- CHIEF, WH DIVISION

• - CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, WOL IME

i CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREAIMENT OF THE DEATH OF

MART IN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL.

1968.

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN

LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED BY THE AMOTS=

GRANMA /HAVANA DAILY. NEWSPAPER OF IME COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBA/, # APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - 'LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A, ACCORDING TO FIRSI REPORIS,

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE®'*

GRANA, A APRIL, FRONT PAGE - IWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARIIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-

TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4, 186 PERSONS ARRESIED, SNIPERS

6¡ CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN IHE U.S. THE WHITE

0

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD.' /FULL INFORMATION

GRANNA, I APRIL, LASI PAGE - 'TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

• BROiN,

••/WASHINGTON, LAPRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFPA

FRENCH NEWS ACENCY ANX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUIED HERE THIS MORNING,

URGING TRE NEGRO PEOFLE OF WASKINGION TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE

RAP BROUN."

JUINE LEAFLEIS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MUIOR-

CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY, '

TELEPOUCH

PAGE ONE

Downgraded to

by anhory j90.2260 4 90/2913

1722

ELANSIFICATION SEVEN

Za IMPDET CL DY D0 256224

FEEL TENT COPY -- 0U

NOT

RELEASE

---

## Page 14

13-00000.

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE IWO

DO GRAMMA, É APRIL, LAST PASE - ARTICLE ENTITLED ••PHINCIPAL

EGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S. ', BY

JUANA CARRASCOA. THE ARTICLE

SYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS

ANE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE

IOLENT ONES AND INE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

TONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCAIE THE USE OF VIOLENCE • CONGRESS OF RACIAL

QUALITY / CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENI COONDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCG/,

LACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARIY, BLACKSIONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

ATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENI /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

EACONS, AND "'THE UOS,"'• THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ONGANIZATIONS ARE

ENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO

IATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL

REAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

SOL C/

GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - JUAITEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO

LAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUIBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN IHE U.S.*

YAT GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ASIACIAL GLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO

ND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN, ""

LA: GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - SATHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE, ''

IF GRANMA, È APRIL, LAST PAGE - • MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

STRUGGLE."°

O RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,

• APRIL, ONE A TO AND LE MOON •"THE CHIEF DE INE MISSION TO CLEA

IF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERAIION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

O AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

CING• THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

ARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

IF THE UNITED SIATES." • THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN

LAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH INE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

ILL INAT NAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES

*3 IO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE SIRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,

TELEPOUCH URGA 29877 PAGE TWO

petite,

15793

---

## Page 15

13-00000

• TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE INREE

IND THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENILY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE

IPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN INE UNITED STATES, WHICH

MINDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN INE ENTIRE

COUNIRY."*

SPit

RADIO LIBERACION, I

APRIL, REP P.M. - JOSIOKELY CARMICHAEL,

LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID • AWE NEGROES MUST AHM OURSELVES WITH

HIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE

CITIES OF THE UNITED SIATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.*

CARMICHAEL PREDICIED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE SIREETS AS

I RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICIED THAT INE

VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

JEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAI WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

CITIES."

ONCE AGAIN THAI THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY

VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.'*

CUT RADIO PROGRESO, N' APRIL, IS POlO A NICANMICHAEL SAID

DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE

IN

ASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-

YENT

WHICH

URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNIIED STATES NOT TO BURN

THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACIS OF VIOLENCE: THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL

'E NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION, CARMICHAEL ADDED -

'SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAXEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

EEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEAINS AS A RESULI OF THE CRIME

COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL .

AXE PLACE, GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES

ECAUSE IT 15 ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST

HE POLICE. ' STORELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEN BY SENDING

IFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOFLE AND THEIR

BADER, FIDEL CASIRO RULA"•

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE

---

## Page 16

13-00000

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO NABANA, " APRIL, I POMO AÉSUAN /MARIA BRAS,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR INE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

:ICO, MADE IHE FOLLOWING SIATEMENIS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBIEDLY PRE-

IPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED SIATES

GAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT, ' dE

ARM RADIO MABANA, S APRIL, I POM. Á BOTHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAI

IF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-

ATION / AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE IO THE SNCC. ON IME

ISSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING."" ""THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO IKE

MERICAN PACIFISI ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A SWE BEG YOU TO

XPRESS IO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

JUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

TRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICIION THAT IHIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH

¡NOWS US IHAI ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF

NG GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE

FRO AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A

OTAL CONFRONIATION.*

QEN RADIO HABANA,

¡ APRIL, L POM. A AJAGUSTIN /GONZALEZI

ARIINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INIERVIEW • MAY INE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE

F THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP IE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY

HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

1.!

ITH THE RESPECI WHICH IS DUE TO INEM AS HUMAN BEINGS. AÓ

D'T RADIO HABAÑA, F' APRIL, I PON # NUHIVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR,

F THE PRESBYIERIAN CHURCH. IN LUYANO, NAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - DIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN

EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOSI

ASSURE THAT

HEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECOHUM HAS BEEN

RUShA

WILL. COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LEIMARGY

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 17

13-00000

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

WILL

HISE FROM THEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINGIBLE ARMY. IN

AUM- RADIO LIBERACION, & APRIL, Y POM. À EDITORIAL COMMENT'S

CRITICIZING INE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

11

SAYING THAT IHIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE, SMARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT

PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS INE VICIIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID

NOT

UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN.'•

AIT RADIO HABANA, I APRIL 6E, TEN POM, Á "JOHNSON POSIPONED

HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS --WHO WERE MORE OR

LESS UNDER CONTROL-TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE• JOHNSON APPEARED ON

TELEVISION, HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE

INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUI MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE. ACTIONS AND THESE

WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING IO

SPREAD THROUGH IME UNITED STATES.'' AJAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-

NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS INE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE

UNITED SIATES AND INCIIES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

FAR-REACHING EFFECIS ARE HARD TO PREDICI,'" JITHE ASSASSINATION

0F

MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISIS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECIIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE."*

MARK F. EFFIELD

DISTRIBUTION.

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 А С/ШНО •

2. A C/WH/COG

2 A C/HOLIME

L DIE TELEFONCH UPGA-29877 PASE FIVE

BT

DENTIAL

---

## Page 18

13-00000

320г

Matric

---

## Page 19

13-00.000

APPEALG REVIED FORM

220.

15 0-51 contains DiSpaTcH

_ 4EGA- 29884 dated

11 April 1963-

) Proriously denied in tornadet excuptions

S Sorrel Bet 32)

prevlously

relcasce;

but not it put of tres

1(4)(3)

of FO12

) Located during the DDO appeals rovier.

) Referred to DDO for review by

urther description, identification, comments, ond/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

ADD exemption (s)

of

) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted

ADD exemption (S)

( ) DROP exemption(s)

* Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

(6ll1) (71(3)

OF FOIR

) Deny document In coto under exemption(s) -

of

Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

he exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

)

)

Information fcon i foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

a foreign liaison relationship

Informitton

which

would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Infornatton pertaining to intelligence methods

Locatlon

of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged donestic installation

Name

OF CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal organizational data

Name

OF FBI agent

FBI File number

Privacy of other individual.

OTHER

ONMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

iring the 000 classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

plannified

dormpitized

* componed to Contidential

1:2

INPOET

NY 012170

---

## Page 20

13-00000

3P

TELEPOUCH

HISP NO

'ILE

NO

LATE

— NONE

- Ró APRIL 1568

INDEXING

* NONE

LICROFILM • NONE

: 0

* CHIEF,

INFO

• CHIEF,

*R OM

SUBJECT

MICROFILMED

APR 10 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

CHIEF

@ SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR., IÁO APRIL 1968

¡E FERENCE

• IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY. OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE

TART IN LUTHER KING TRANSMITTED IN IN REFERENCE, THE

"OLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THE

GIA GRANNA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - JUMOBILIZATION OF 55, 088

ROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES®" A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

'ISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS. A RESULT OF THE

JEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING•

WM

GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUWITH THE ASSASSINATION OF

TARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED®• A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF IME

CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/ AUTHIS SIMPLY MEANS' THAT

VON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHIING. IHE PEOPLE

CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

• VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM, NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

'NE BLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

STREETS OF THIS COUNTRY,'* THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA

ION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT INE

'OSSISLE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE-

LIED * JUI REPEAT INAT WE ARE MAKING NO PREDICIIONS, BUT THE

18L6 POUCH

PAGE ONE

ARNOVED FOR RELEASE

•Nate Eare

13278

..é..te...

---

## Page 21

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE IWO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING IO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY INE ASSASSI

NATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE."•

EM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-

TLED, AUTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

HEROISM."" JUAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP

TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES, AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW

PAGES OF HEROISM.

STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS

WARNING ONE DAY AFIER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING: - JWHAT

HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE. LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DA, KING

IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO MAPPEN. ' JJ

RM

GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A SUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS.'" THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

IM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 A.MO/ A JUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENIS.

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,

JARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSIRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT. '*

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST; I APRIL 1955 A.MOl A JU JFORWARD

VITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENIAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERIHROWN' SAID IME SOCIALISI PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL&

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. "º

UM

RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL / 1230 P.M./ A IHIS NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSIRAIION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICANS ASIANS AND

AFRICAN STUDENTS WERE

SAID TO HAVE

PARIICIPATED

IN FRONT OF THE

JoS. EMBASSY IN WARSAW; POLAND, AS A PROTESI OVER INE DEATH OF

TARTIN LUTHER KING=

MISTRISUIION

TELE POUCH

PAGE TWO

---

## Page 22

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A

2 A

2 A

PAGE THREE

TELEPOUCH

BT

---

## Page 23

13-00000

TELE POUCH

DISP NO

FILE NO

DATE

60 APRIL 1968

MICROTIIMED

APR 15 1968

DOG. MICRO. SER

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECI

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATUENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR.; 1AO APRIL 1958

REFERENCE. -

IN ADDITION TO INE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE

MARTIN LUIMER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN KEEZHENCE, THE

FOLLOWING SUMMARY

FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS. BEEN FURNISNED

GRANDA, O AFRIL, PAGE ONE - SUMOBILIZATION OF 55, 000

TROOPS TO REPRESS THE NECROES® A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

DISTURPANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE

DEAIN OF MARTIN LUTHER KING,

WI GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 5 A JUWIIN THE ASSASSINATION OF

MARIIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED' A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTON OF INE

CONCRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/• JUTHIS SIMPLY MRANS IHAT

NON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE FEOPLE

CANNOT BE

TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENI WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

A VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM.

NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE

PREACHED TO

• JHE ELACK PEOPLE WHO MAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON IME

STREEIS OF THIS COUNIRY." INIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA

TION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKIOSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE

POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE-

LIED - JUI REPEAT THAT WE. ARE MAKING NO PREDICTIONS, BUT THE

TELEPOUCH

PAGE ONE

A APPROVED FOR

AU

85/6156

---

## Page 24

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TWO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY THE ASSASSI

NATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PROPLE. "'

EM GRAMA, O APRIL. PAGE 3 A ARTICLE DY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-

TLED, JUIME AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

HEROISU."*

JJAGAINSI ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP

TODAY IN MORE INAN SIXTY CITIES: AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW

PAGES

OF HEROISM. STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, CAVE THIS

WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - JWHAT

HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DA. KING

IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN, ' JJ

RM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A SUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS. ' THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT•

IM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 A.MOI A JUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS. IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE IO SERIOUS EVENTS*

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JONNSON FOR YESIERDAY, U APRIL,

MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECIED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT.**

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCASI, 1 APRIL / 955 A.M. A SU JFORWARD

WITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALISI MISERY, IME FUNDAMENIAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN' SAID THE SOCIALISI PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING*®

UM RADIO LIBERACION; I APRIL /1236 POM./ A THIS NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSIRAIION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN; AND

• AFRICAN SIUDENIS WERE SAID TO MAVE PARTICIPAIED IN FRONT OF THE

U.S, EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTESI OVER THE DEAIN OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING•

TELEPOUCH

PAGE IWO

---

## Page 25

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

VIA TELEPOUCH

TELEPOUCH

FAGE THREE

PAGE THREE

---

## Page 26

13-00000

3P

ECRET TELEPOUCH

3117"

ISP NO

- UFGA -29584

ILE NO

ATE

- NONE

- GO APRIL 1968

MICROFILMED

NDEXING

∞ NONE

APR i5 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

I OR OF ILM

• NONE

NFO

ROM

¡UBJECT

~ CHIEF, WH DIVISION

- CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, WOLIME

*COS, JUWAVE

-O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR., 1AO APRIL 1968

EFERENCE - UFGA-29877

IN ADDITION TO IHE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE

ARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMIIIED IN REFERENCE, I-HE

'OLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY INE AMOIS

OH GRANNA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - JUMOBILIZATION OF 55, 000

ROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES® A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

JISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S, AS A RESULT OF THE

JEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.

WM

GRANMA, D APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUWITH IME ASSASSINATION OF

JARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED® A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE

CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/• JJINIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT

ION-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHIING. THE

PEOPLE

CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

• VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM, NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

HE PLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE

VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

SIREETS OF THIS COUNTRY,' THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA-

¡ION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE

*COSIOLE CONSEQUENCES OF INE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE-

REFEAT THAT WE ARE MANING NO PREDICIIONS, BUT INE

Cown rad

Male:

CROUCH

UFGA-29864 PAGE

TREGARAT

ONE

D1273.

913723

mat 2,79

0075421

612103

GOld CLA CORT - 10

OT NECEASE

105.

---

## Page 27

13-000.00

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PASE TWO

¡MERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLAIE IMPASSIBLY IME ASSASSI

JATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE.*

EM GRANNA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRENO ENTI-

ILED, SUTHE AMERICAN NEGKOES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

SEROISM,'" JUAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP

•ODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES. AND IT IS LOGICAL IO EXPECT NEW

AGES OF HEROISM, STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE INIS

¡ARNING ONE DAY AFIER THE DEAIN OF MARIIN LUTHEN KING • JWHAT

APPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING

IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. ' JU

RM

GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER. KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS," " THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

IM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 A.MO/ A QUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENIS.

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,

MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENI. "'

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, 1 APRIL 1955 A.MOl A SU OFORWARD

*ITH BLACK POVER UNTIL CAPITALISI MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN' SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO IME AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING."•

UM RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL /1230 P.MO/ A THIS NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH 2.00 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND

AFRICAN STUDENIS WERE SAID TO HAVE PARTICIPAIED IN FRONT OF THE

U.S. EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING.

MARK F. EFFIELD

DISTRIBUTION

MIRAOUCH VEGA-ZOSSA PAGE THO

petite,

4.?

---

## Page 28

13-00000

SCR

TELEPOUCK UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

IA TELE POUCH

A C/WHD

A C/WH/COG

A C/HOLINE

ALL TELEPOUCH URGA 29884 FAGE THREE

---

## Page 29

13-00000

1321

---

## Page 30

13-00009NCLASSIFIED .

LI SECRET •

LI TOF SECRET

1.

CONFIDENTIAL

• APPEALS REVIEW FORM

32/

Tab -Z/contains Cable IMWAUE 2011

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

dated

12 APR 68.

of

( )

Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted

under

0Q Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3.

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

4. I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

of

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted

under

of

ADD exemption (s)

( DROP xempton (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

5.

( ) Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

Release a sanitized version

E2(U(6213)

with excised

portions exempted under

FOLE

The exemptions cited

above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information

pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which mycould identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Infornation pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified

to

declassified

desensitized

*: ungraded to Condidenteal

FUSSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

E?

IMPOGT

CL

BY 012170

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

13-00000

:::12.219403

219993

#CNB.113

191

" DEF

FLE

F.iz

PAD

-°*"

10.....

BRANCH:

1N5O

+4429 00

3121717Z APA 63 CITED

PRISPATY CERECTOR

12.90120304

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14-3nav 1978

HAS JUST ASTORTER

OF ENVELOPE MIIE REIGEN MOORESE

ANDOG EGRAVARTIA, SPARTADO SOLD HAVAVA" CONTAININS TWO

C15 INCH BLACK WHITE AND RED POSTERS FEATURING SLACK

FARTHER DITH LEGEND BLACK POUER® IN HIS OPEN MOUTH AND

FELODID AN LARGE LETTERE STATEMENT "RETALIATION FOR CALIE:

-EVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IN ENGLISH FOLLOWED SY APPARESTLY

ITE SINTEMENT TO SMALLER LETTERS IN SPAGISH, FRENCH AND.

÷ 4310:

FINALLY LETTERS "OSPAAAL" AT BOSION OF FOSTER.

FINTERS MORE ASSORPANIED ET MIMEOGRAPHES SAEET WITH FOLLERING

CATENENT: "ON THE DOCASION OF DR. MASTIN LUTHER XINE' E

PEORGSIAMTIOY ME HAVE PUBLISHED & POSTER THAI IS NOW SEING

TOMATOS AID GIER THE GORLD ME 4РЕ SENDING YOO& CERIN

COCO THEM CELERS GHICH AT HE USED 19 YOUR COUNTAI

ARE ASTONISHED BY THE SPEED WITH WHICH

THESE POSTERS HAVE BEEN PREPARED AND RAILED. ENDELOPE WAS

RECEIVED IN

POSE OFFICE BOX IN WRICH NE NOBRALLY

---

## Page 32

13-00000

water?

FiLE

COa;

F:.E.

Wit.

P1C6 2

GETS VARIOUS CUBAR MAILINGS INCLUDING

ITEMS BUT THESE

NAVE ALWAYS BEEN VERY SLOW IN COMING AND HAVE USUALLY

DEVIOUSLY BEEN SEVERAL WEEKS IN. PREPARATION AND TRANSIT

IT HAS NOT BEEN POSSIBLE TO ESTABLISH EXACT DATE OF RECEIPT

OF PRESSIE: ITEM BECAUSE

LAST SERVICED HIS P.O.

BOY 01U & APRILA ENVELOPE BORE NO DATED POSIMARK, ONLY

SIERE "PORT PAYE IN UPPER

RIGHT - HAND. CORNER.

-AIRANY

EVENT IT IS CLUAR THAT IF POSTERS ARRIVED AT LATESTIONAI

SARIL. LI JOCK SUSANS LESS THAN A VEX TO PREPARE AND NAIL

THEM TO U.S.

3.,

CHAT NAG.OF COURSE OCCURRED TO

IS POSSI

BILITY THAT QUICK CUBAN PEAFORMASCE ON THIS SUBJECT MAY

#DICATE CUBAN COLLUSION IN ASSASSINATION OR ADVANCE KNOGLELSE

THAT IT WAS TO TAKE PLACE"

HE HAVE TOLD THEN INAT GE KNO&

SF NO DIFER EVIDENCE TO BEND SUFFORT ID THIS ASSUMPIION.

THEY ARE CHECKING WITH OTHER LOCAL RECIPIENTE OF CUBAS PROPA-

ENAPA MATERIAL TO DETERRINE WAGTHER OTHER SUCH PAMPHLET

PACNAGES MAUL ARRIVED HERE.

THEY

AREMISS

: CONTACTING LOCAL

TO MORORNI THEM OF RECEIPT DO THIS MATERIAL

---

## Page 33

22 2 104-330

Irtirke

CE19.Oa

E=02

27:3

dpc:»

1Fk:

37:.2

130.x

i:1

NN:ES0I3

30:

:5/000d?8

CALT'S

07.59

19:77-

*E NRÜSIO

::: 57r.5=309

12/405650

W996.979

00000-8L

---

## Page 34

15000*

2822142.032

-G,029200020602- -0

CONFIDENTIAL

Zie Fune

-27253

A

111p070.020m

Please went s/F, ill?

COMFING

STAL 5 121717Z APA SO GITL AMNAVE 2017

PRIORITY

DIRECTOR

12000390304

TYRIC ANCAR3ON

LA ANCARSON-S HAD JURT TSEDATEO TO DIATION RECEIPT

S1 M18 CALLAGUE, ANCARASAD, Or COVETE C17N ALIShA 465tz6

"RANDY EGAAVARNIA, APARTADO QUE MAVOR, DONTAINING INS

ARIS INCH GLACK SHITE ANDED PISTERS FEATURIOS SLACK

FANTURA MITA LESSND "BLACK POGA" IN HIS OPEN NOOTH AND

GLOD IT A LARGE LETTERS STATEMAND RETALIATION FOR CALIE:

AEVOLUTIUVARY VIOLENCE IN LUGLISH FOLLOSES BY APPARENTAY

RADE STATONENT IN SMALLER LATTERG IN SEAWIGH, FRENCH ADD

1A218

FINALLY LETTERS "OSPAAAL" AT BOTTOM OF FOSSER,

PORTERS GONE ACCOAPANISS SY MINBOGAAPGED 3065T #ITH FOlLiLIG

STATANNE: DO THE OSCAGION OF GAO MANTID LARGE MIND'S

A33a501÷ATIO3 02 RaVE POoLISHaL A FOSTEN THAT 12 A0D BEING

2293

9560

heres

Downgraded to

by authorite of 00

date

CTACULATODAL GUDA TUB WORLD: GO ARE CORRIDE YOU A CERTA

ATE COURT TOLD CRATE DO 10 Th K66A0."

WEll And datondent the Seed Win caled

Milained have peak enapade do illite arealone ind

CLACSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON /5 maR78

I IMPOET GI OVED 95.

EULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

## Page 35

13-00000

39/2236

....)

STOP TAD Sorr

SLOPTED

2.9a2a 9Y

F::E.

M-S2F FOR FILE E00.a

FIR 61D

Carr

TO

VA.

9218041823

PAGE & UNWAVE 2017 55

CRET

SETS VARIOUS CUEAN MAILINGS INCLUDING LASO LTENS DUT THESE

HAVE

ALWAYS BEEN VERY SLOW IN COMING AND HAVE USUALLY

OBVIOUSLY BEEN SEVERAL WESKS IN PREPARATION AND TRANSIT.

intran

IT WAS NOT BEEN POSSIBLE TO ESTABLISH EXACT DATE OF RECEIPT

OF PRESENT ITEM BECAUSE AMCARBON-I WAS IN DAMANAS COVERING

ELECTION FROM 9 THRU SO APRIL AND LAST SERVICED HIS POO.

SON OU B APRILO ENVELOPE BORE NO. DATED POSIMARK,. OOLY

SIERE: "PORT PAYE" IN UPPER RIGHT-HARU CORNERE

AT ANY

SVENT IT IS CLEAR INAT IF POSIERS ARRIVED AT LATEST OU JI

ARIL, ET JOOK CUBANS LESS INAN A WEEK TO PREPARE AND MAIL

THE 10 U.6.

3: NIAL MADE GUINDE DOOJARED TO LESSON TO POSUIT

MILITY TIME MICK CHAN FEAPORIAGCE DE T.11: S050807 1A:

IDICATE CUBAN COLLUSION IN ASSASSIDATION OR NOVAGOS MOSLEUSE

THAT IT UNG ID TAKE PLACE 1E GAUD TOLD THEN THAT DE MUCH

SO NO DINER EVIDENGE IS LIND SUPPORT TH TA13 ASSCAPTIO.

ACH ARE CHECKING ME HOTHER LOCAL SEPITE S7 CIBAN PROPE

o..a.

....

at loader cros

chilli mie

-:-.---.....

---

## Page 36

13-00000

204 20272

Paramed on's curiouril.

82222321

.61h0117.06/0r7?-

CONFIDENTIAL:

irr ......

22"

PACE JIANG 2017 CONFIDENTIAL

•. JULY JAWAVE TRACE ON 1200Y ECHAVARAIG INDICATES

LET AD A MAIL ADDRESS FOR PROSIPS AND SENDING OR SEAS

PRAINE PROPACANDA

G00441

---

## Page 37

13-00000

322

---

## Page 38

13-00000

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

322

IN 90561

102-53 contains

CABLE

INWAVE 2022

dated 12 Apr. 1968.

) Previously denica in toto undergaption that rite

senregable portions previourly relensca, excised portions exempty is

(6) (3)

or Ecla

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

) Referred to DDO for review by

urther description, identification, comments, and/or roferrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

of

( )

ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (5)

) Sustaln initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exenption(s)

( ) DROP exemption (5)

V) Release

audit tonal

information with excised portions exempted under

NU 081(3

) Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

Release

a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

he exemptions cited above are being clained to protect the following:

Information fron i foreign liaison service

)

Informat lon pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

of CIA overscas installation

ot unacknowledged domestic installation

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

CryptonymS

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

OMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

uring the DO classification revier, this document which was marked

- SECRET

was:

naintained

classifiel to

Acclassified

dependitirod

i downeraded to

cortidentiAl

12 IMPORT

C1. liY 01217!

---

## Page 39

300000 RETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/UNIT NORFIES

TOTAL CROSS 1E

YOUTING ANDEOS

ALS- 50N3Y

6

2

¡ ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

AT:

26

DISSEM BY

ACTION

PER

cOnY

122103Z APR

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITEO

INDEX: D Yes

O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.-

K-REF

TO FILE NO.

FILE

INFO:

LEET. TO

FILE,

VA.

68 CITE

10

BRANCH DJ

DESTROY 0] sIG.

Kpd 4 Dee 68

DIRECTOR

IN CONNECTION WITH CUBAN

MAILING OF BLACK POWE

POSTERS REPORTED IN

SEE ALSO SHIPMENT ON

7 REPEAT 7 APRIL. (I.E., 3 DAYS AFTER DR KING'S ASSASSINA-

TION) MENTIONED IN

BT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date -I mcull978

(53)

---

## Page 40

13-00000

Lisass

3

5

L91

SPEE TO PLE LO

1221652 APR 65

12023n9056T

DIPECIOR

IN CONMECTION WITH CUBAN MAILIES OF BLACK POVER

FOSTERS REPORTED

, SEE ALSO SHIPMENT ON

TREPEAT Y APRIL CI.E", 3 DAYS AFTER DR

KING'S ASSASSINA

TICSO MENTIONED

BI

Preciousl

A APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date s19. AUG 1976

$3

---

## Page 41

22%

ISSUED

CHON ỐF THIS COPY

PHASED

ver. 0.n6 106

CLASSIE TO FIC

NEr TO FILESMO

10

26

WAL

DESTROY 1 5IG

CCA 3 c/cl

0/ -2

COMBERTET 1221032NAPR1O8 CUTE UNWAVE

2022

XIRECT OR.

SAPOW TYRICE ERPERUSALE AMCARBON

ENO CONNECTATON WITH CUBAN MAN 4O OF SLACK POWER

OSTERS REPORTED IN UNWAVE 20171 SEE ALSO SHIPMENTION A

REPEAT 7 APRIL CI-E,I3 DAYS AFTER DR KING'S ASSASSINA-

HON GENT TONED LN 3YO/CUP/7.397-68

&BT

12A86m 90561

53

Howngraded.

date!

CENRDENTAL

FUL TEXT COPY DO NOr RELEASE

2. ma28

- 0124009550%

SECRET

---

## Page 42

13-00000

TARt 321

---

## Page 43

13-OPOPRiLASSIAIED :

DO CUNFIUENILAL

WTON SECRET

323

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

76

90377

contains SABLE

ONWAVE 3009

dated 12 Apr. 63

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

of

( ) Sogregable portions

previously released; excised portions exempted

under

Do Located during the DoO appeals review.

() Referred to Dho for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

Goerstand dising

Appended persiser.

I RECOMMEND:*

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

ADD exemption (s)

0f

() Sustain initial release

exempted under

of sanitized version with excised portions

DROP exemption (s)

() Release additional infornation with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny docunent in toto under exemption (s)

of

Release a sanitized version

with excised portions exempted under

152(06893)

F0m

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

InFormation Fron a

foreign liaison service

Infornation pertaining

to a foreign liaison relationship

Information

which would/could identify the source

Infornation pertaining to a source

Information pertaining

to intelligence nethods

Location

overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installacion

Name

of CIA employee

File numbere

Pseudonym

Internal organizational data

Name

Of FBI agent

FBI file number:

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO classification roview, this document which was marked

25

SECRET

NOS:

al itsined

wisified

Acnesified

dcumsitizod

do graded to Condidentre

82

IMPDET

CL BY 012170

(X) CONFIDENTIAL

17 SECRET

17 TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

00000

SECHECARIAL DISLEMENARDN

URIT MOTITED

SLOTTED

Icory

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

VES I NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO ..

X-HEF TO FILE NO.

0 нЕт. то

FILI

1NF5

FILE,

BRANCH D

DESTROY (/ 316.

1121438Z APR 68 CITE

"12 APR 68 IN 90377

DIRECT OR

HAS HAD

PREPARE TWO SUMMARIES OF

CUBAN REGIME COVERAGE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION

DERESULTANT DISTURBANCES THROUGH & APRIL SENT TELEPOUCH AS

WE WILL NOW DISCONTINUE THIS

IS PORTING UNLESS THERÉ IS A CONTINUED HOS DESIRE TO RECEIVE IT.

EASE ADVISE.

BT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 1 Mauk 1978

---

## Page 45

13

d000

ILE SECRETARIAN LASERDAMOR

GON TREE

iSSUED

SLOTTED

H/0684

das toy coursel

CISE BEINAL

GROUP i

MGGY8.9

REPROOUCTION OF THISCOE DOMIniTED

INDEX: * I: YES

D: NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-HEF TO FILE NO.:.

FILE RIO, O RET. TO

INFO:

FILE,

BRANCHL

WH8

6

Fate, Te

10

DESTROY DISIg.,

KA, CAS

-1Z APR 68 W 90377

COMESSIAL 1214587WAPR 68, CITE UMWAVE 2009

DIRECT OR

TYPIC

STATION HAS HAD AMOTS PREPARE TWO SUMMARIES OF

CUBAN REGIME COVERAGE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION

AND RESULTANT DISTURBANCES IHROUGH 9 APRIL SENT TELEPOUCH AS

UT GA-29877 AND UFGA-29884.

WE WILL NOW DISCONTINUE THIS

REPORTING UNLESS THERE IS A CONTINUED HQS DESIRE TO RECEIVE IT.

PLEASE ADVISE.

1 BT

EILE. TEXT COPY - DO NOT, RELEASE

CLASSINSATION REVIERY

CONDUCTED ON É MenaL

2 MADET CLaY 009560

012923

CONFIDENTIA

Downgraded to

Dy authoriti of 0023601012913

28

CROSS FILE COPH FOR

202- CS32132

DO NOX DESTROY

EULL JEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

GUR

---

## Page 46

13-00000

---

## Page 47

13-00000

APPEALO KEVIEN FORM

324

Berline 2149

' 254 contains

CABLE

IN 92216

dated 15 Apr. 1968.

/ Proviously deniod in toto under exemption (s)

of

¡ Segregable portions pr

Biased; excise portions exempted

of FOlA

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

/ Referred to 0DO for review hy

rther description, identification, connents, and/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

ADD excmption (s)

of

)

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

$ Relense

additionnl information with excised portions exempted under

B (613) 161/62

oF 7018

). Deny document In loto under exemption (s)

of

) Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

of

le exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information fron il foreign liaison service

InFormatlon pertaining

to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which a

/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

• InFormatlon

pertaining to intelligence methods

Locations of CIA overseas installations

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number/Per

Pseudonym

Cryptonymg

Internal orgunizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI File number

Privacy of other individuals

OTHER

SECRET

3 mainsained

classitied

to

declassified

descuritized

downgraded to

confidential

1:2

IMPOST

C:I.

BY 012170

11:1

---

## Page 48

13-00000

SECHETAHIAT DISSEMINATION

SEEN DY

SLOTTED

3.

cOpy

REPRODUCTION DE THIS COPY PROMISMED

1602EX

CLABDIFY TO FILE AO..

K-PEP TÓ FILE NO.

FILE

INFO: .

PRECEDENCE

BRANCH D

15A8 SN 91216

A151351Z APR 68 CITE

needle nited

ECTOR INFOT

70597)

B DIRECIOR 49260

1. AMERIÇAN INVOLVEMENT IN ANTI-VIETNAM WAR

AMITIES IN WEST BERLIN HAS CONTINUED SINCE REF A.

HIBERS OF US CAMPAIGN CONTINUE IO CARRY OUT

BIR "ACTION NIGHT LIFE," ENTERING GI BARS AND

SING QUT LEAFLETS ENCOURAGING AND OFFERING:

ISTANCE FOR DESERTION..

CAMPAIGN MEMBERS CITE

DrIVE" RESULSTS IN FACT THAI GI'S WILLING TO

WITH THEM AND TO PASS LEAFLEIS ON TO OTHER

IDIERS. CAMPAIGN HAS POINTED OUT TO NON-AMERICAN

ICIPANTS INTERESTED IN "ACTION" THAT THEY MAY

CONTACI SOLDIERS THROUGH US ARMY'S COMMUNITY

(A)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14 MaN 1928

324

---

## Page 49

13-00000

CRETAHAT DISTTMINATION

i1P1173

CLASSHED MESSAGE

701L COmES

F. 2. OTHER RELATED US CAMPAIGN PLANS INCLUDED

ETING WITH LOCAL FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS IN HOPE OF

POACHING THEM ABOUT VIEINAM WAR, THE POLITICAL

UATION IN BERLINg. DRAFI AND FULBRIGHI PROGRAM

ELF. IT IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER IHIS MEETING EVER

KI PLACE. CAMPAIGN IS ALSO PLANNING THEATER

MENING, TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED FOR 20 APRIL, ARI

GLION AND SIMILAR

EVENIS, PROCEEDS FROM WHICH

SUPPOSED TO GO TO VIET CONG.

i 3. :

"RADICAL LEFT ELEMENT IN BERLIN STAGED

APRIL DEMONSIRATION MARCH ON RATHAUS SCHOENEBERG

WAKE OF DR. KING'S ASSASSINATION. IN VIEW OF THE

§SASSINATION AITEMPT ON LEFTIST STUDENI LEADER

UDI DUISCHKE ON 11 APRIL STUDENI ATIENIIONS

OVER

SEEN DY

IS SUEO

LI SLOTTED

FILE.

DOUCTION OF THIS CONT PHOMIRIED

INDEX:

YEs • 0 10

CLASSIFY TO FILE HO..

X-HEF TO FILE NO.

DRET, TO

VA

BRANCHD

---

## Page 50

6000

** GUCROTAMAL DISSEMINALION

TAMA CENA

MINER: AROUGH DASIAN DEN VOT

ICE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTEO

RENRORUCTION OF THIS COPY PRONIEITED

INDEX: D YES E] NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REE TO

FILE NO...

FILE

INFO:

LI RET. TO

FILE.

VR.

10

DRANCHO

DESTROY sIG.

PAGE

-WEEKEND CENTERED ON FURTHER ATTACKS ON SPRINGER

¿ PROPERTY AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOWNTOWN. WEST.

BERLIN®,

BT

---

## Page 51

00000-81

15a8081215

E9

1515512 AP3

CERI MOIEEIE

"?"

EB DIRECIC?

49253

remnal,

aSvansd uua cancuas

Dule lC Alg 12- 51

---

## Page 52

13-00000

AGI

• RADICAL LEFT ELEMENT IN BERLIN STAGED-

•7."

S-APRIL DEMONSTRATION MARCH ON RATHAUS SCHOENEBERG

•&g.

I': WAKE OF DR. KING'S ASSASSIVATION:

•IN VIEW OF

THE

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON LEFTISI STUDENT LEADER

AUDI QUISCHKE ON 11 APRIL; STUDENT AITENTIONS OVER

ind at let

---

## Page 53

13-00000

18.02

PAGE: 3

WEEKEND CENTERED ON FURINER AFTACKS ON SPRINGER

-272E133

• PROPERTY AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOVNIOWN

WEST

BERLIN

---

## Page 54

13-00000

"MiLE SECHETARIAT DISSEMINATION

IAMONDE NOTIFIED

- 1 ASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

OUTINT AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN PSY

1212-

is sitation

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRONISITED

Chaun

•IVANCELORY

ISSUES

SLOTTEO

INDEX: D

YES I NO

10

AT:

"PER

c/

ITION

z

3

RIO COPY

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

EDENCE

X-HEF TO FILE NO.-

FILE RIO CIRET-TO.

c/it

INFO:

DESTROY I sIo,

FILE,

Wa DEL, BLUCI, DDP, ChIRE

EYES

C/FI, C/EUR 2

15 AM SON 9 1 2 1 6

SUNROEAR AL 1513517 APR 68 CITE BERLIN 2149 (HIBBERT ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO BONN

RYBAI MHPASHA

REF A BERLIN 1812 IN

70597

B DIRECIOR 49260

I AMERIÇAN INVOLVEMENT IN ANTI-VIETNAM WAR

ACTIVITIES IN WEST BERLIN HAS CONTINUED SINCE REF A.

MEMBERS DF US CAMPAIGN CONTINUE TO CARRY OUT

THEIR "ACTION NIGHT LIFE," ENTERING GI BARS AND

PASSING OUT LEAFLETS ENCOURAGING AND OFFERING

ASSISTANCE FOR DESERTION. CAMPAIGN MEMBERS CITE

"POSITIVE" RESULTS IN FACT THAI GI'S WILLING TO

TALK WITH THEM AND IO PASS LEAFLEIS ON TO OTHER

SOLDIERS,

CAMPAIGN HAS POINTED OUT TO NON-AMERICAN

PARTICIPANIS INTERESTED IN "ACTION" THAT THEY MAY

AASO CONTACI SOLDIERS THROUGH US ARMY'S COMMUNITY

RELATIONS OFFICE. US CAMPAIGNERS KEITH CHAMBERLAIN

Downgraded to

CONFIDENTIAL

AND PETER STANDISH WERE INVITED IO SPEAK AT

by authorily s

001828

date a

151978

23 MARCH VIETNAM RALLY AND CHOSE AS THEME "HISTORY

IF AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN VIEINAM." THEY

C: A03K

F:3M- NEViSV

CROUTE: 5: 28704-1228

MIN/OUT CL EY 00/820

BENTIAL

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

ustage

it pring.

---

## Page 55

13-00.000:

"'IE SECRETARLAT DISSEMINATION

MINCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

I AID COPY

CLASSIED MESSAGE

TOWN: COPIES

SSAABINTIAL "2

a pastrel

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES 0] No

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO...

X-REF TO FILE NO.-

FILE RIO L RET. TO

¡NiFO:

FILE.

vA,

HOUTINE AND/OR INITIALS : SEEN DY

10

BRANCH C

DESTROY DISIG.

PAGE 2: BERLIN 2149 SCONFIDENIRAL

COORDINATED THEIR REMARKS WITH CAMPAIGN LEADER

FRANCIS FULLER AND MEMBERS DAVID HARRIS AND SAM

WEBER. CHAMBERLAIN ALSO ACCOMPANIED RUDI DUISCHKE

TU PRAGUE IN LATE MARCH FOR MEETING OF THIRD

CHRISTIAN PEACE CONFERENCE.

OTHER RELATED US CAMPAIGN PLANS INCLUDED

MEETING WITH LOCAL FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS IN HOPE OF

APPROACHING THEM ABOUT VIETNAM WAR, THE POLITICAL

SITUATION IN BERLIN, DRAFT AND FULBRIGHT PROGRAM

ITSELF. IT IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS MEETING EVER

TOOK PLACE. CAMPAIGN IS ALSO PLANNING THEATER

EVENING, TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED FOR 20 APRIL, ARI..

AUCIION AND SIMILAR EVENIS, PROCEEDS FROM WHICH

ARE SUPPOSED TO GO'TO VIET CONG.

3.. RADICAL LEFT ELEMENT IN BERLIN STAGED

6 APRIL DEMONSIRATION MARCH ON RAIHAUS SCHOENEBERG

IN WAKE DF DR. KING'S ASSASSINATION. IN. VIEW OF THÉ

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON LEFTISI SIUDENT LEADER

RUDI DUTSCHKE ON 11 APRIL: STUDENT AITENTIONS OVER

CSEGRETT

---

## Page 56

13-90000

& SECRETA AT DISSEMINATIO

FINIT ROTT

AN ALyON INDIANS 1640 DK

INCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTFO

• 5M BY

TOM

RID CORY

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COMY PROMIBLTEO

INDEX: O YeS O NO

CLASSIFY TE FILE PO

X-HEF TO FILE NO...

FILE ND DIRET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

BRANCHO

DESTROY 0] SIG

PAGE 3 BERLIN

2149 CONFIBENTIAL

WEEKEND CENTERED ON FURTHER ATTACKS ON SPRINGER

PROPERTY AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOWNIOWN WEST

BERLIN.

SOBETTE

BI

C/S Comment: *Reported activities of Americans in anti-Vietnam

activity.

**Hgs participating in survey of international

connections of anti-Vietnam war movement in U.S.

CONTEN

---

## Page 57

13:00000

-

14023

JFK IS

F3

---

## Page 58

13-00000

335

IN 91393

Tub

8:65 contains Cable Bed City 5.210

dated

15 apr. 68.

2. IS Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

( ) Segregable portions previously released;

excused portions exempted

under

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3.

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

B. I RECOMMEND:

sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) (8)U) (6)(3) Of FO!

ADD exemption (s)

DROP exemption(s)

()

Sustain initlal release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

of

572

DROP exemption (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

(" Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

• 5.

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

to a foreign

liaison relationship

Information which m/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Infornation pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas installation

Location

Name

of acknowledged domestic installation

of CIA enployee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6.

COMMENTS and/ox SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

7.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified

to

declassified

desensitized

I compraded to

L. CONFIDENTTAL

X SECRET

E2

IMPOET

CL

BY 012170

I.7 TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

13-00000

LERE IBAR DISSE CIVATION

"SERENEO

68-85

Isomo

•ES:SED BESCAGE

SECRET

Tora: comis&

GROUP!

! Winen Filled in!

REPPORECHION OF THIS COPY PROMIGITED

IDEK.

2.:o

CIRSB.FY 1O FILE 10.

TENG ANO/OR UNITIANS - SEE% EY

INcita

10

Dessor lisio.

[XI

EYES

1520152

APR

6₴

CITE MEXICO CITY 5210

15mE a 01 392

IRECT CR

HALPHA

IF: DIRECTOR-89694

1. UITEMPO-?2, ON I2 APRIL 1953, PROVIDED FOLLOWING REPORIS

LATING TO REFERENCE:

2: THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF INE'AFRO-ASIAN LATIN AÑERI

IN PEOPLE'S SOLIDARITY ORGANIZAI IONCAALAPSO) IN HAVANA, DIRECIED

RAMON ECHAVARRIA, IS SENDING TO MEXICAN COMMUNISTS LARSE BLACK

JER" POSTERS, WITH CAPIION RETALIATION TO CRIME: REVOLUTIONARY

ZENCE,* IN ENGLISH, FRENCH, SPANISH AND ARABIC. ACKNOWLEDGE-

IT OF RECEIPI OF THIS MATERIAL IS TO BE DADE TO MODSVALDO

MEDES ALVAREZ, SIBISKE NANESTI, COLE BUBENEG, PRAGUE, CZEGHOSLO-

XIA: POUGHING COPIES OF POSTER:

I3. THE INDEPEIOENT FEASANIS CENIRA ICOLO, ON §"APRILE

FESSED LETTER TO PRESIDENT LYNDON E. MOHNSON, PROTESTING

LUST INE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, ATIRIBUTING II

F8 AGGRESSIVE AND FASCISI POLIGIES OF U.S. GOVERNGENI. LETTER

SOS ALSO AN END TO THE WAR IN VIETNAM.

SECRET

FULL TEXT COPY = DO NOT RELEASÉ

CLASSIFICATION AEVIEW

65

CONICTED ON 2 MIGS228

0/2213

---

## Page 60

13-00000,m

---

## Page 61

13-00009 UNGLASSIFIED. 1X1 CONFIDENTIAL

• SECRET:

WEIL TOP SECRET

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

326

1. Tab 2-73 contains

sno B-58

dated /8 GpN 6.8

2.

Do Previously denied in toto under exemption (s) (8(11(6/3)

0f F016

( ) Segregable portions previously released;

under

excised portions exempted

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3.

further description alde ificate caentle do referransean.

4. I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

of

ADD exemption (s)

(3 DROP exemption (s)

( ) Sustain

initial release of sanitized version with

excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption(s

• ) DROP exemption(s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

of

() Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

Release

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

(61(1 (61/3)

FOCA

5. The exemptions cited

above

are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaisón service

Information pertaining

; to a foreign

relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal

organizational data

Name

OF FBI

agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

7.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified to

declassified

desensitived

dovagraded to confidential

UNCLASSIFIED

-ad.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

62

IMPDEI

CL, BY

012170

.TOP SECRET

---

## Page 62

B-88

18 APR 1968

SUBJECT:

Investllation us inath of tartin Luther king, Jurios

1.

Your Dureau to, resentative in:

providon

our reproacatative with comosite photographs of the suspected

Chechs lur rersons ances ma to poserble the comosite

¡hotographs wore negative

1968 an unidentiEded

Whits noid

the description aid not fit either the conjosite thotograph or

the desertition groviced by your Burcau representative:

However, our reprcaentative gaosed copiese

to your purces ferresentative with the notation these ald not

@ucart@rbectcantisaliwit.the.Bungou.ausi.ects

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14 brav1276

A.73

811-0532738

---

## Page 63

13-00000

BASIC

PROJECT:

None

LIAISON: None

* (IN 93087)

18 april 1968

Distribution:

Reperal, Sureau of Investigation

2

+04 08327352

---

## Page 64

13-00000

"CONFIDENTIAL

B-88

18 APR 1968

UBJDeis Investitution of cath of Martin auther king, durios.

Your Bureau rcircaintativo ir Mexico City provided

our representative with

comostle photogra ho of the suspected

Alllor of Martin Luther Fing,

for a check against

visitors to the soviet and Cuban imbassics in Nexico City

during the recent nonths.

2.

Checks for persons arcaring to resenble the comjosite

¡hotographs were negative at

1988

both Inbassies.

on 30 January

an

unidentified white male visited the

Soviet Entassy but

the description die not fit eithor the composite photograph or

the descrition troviced by your

Eurcau Iopresentative.

However, our rerIcsentative passed cojies. of

the rhotograghs

to your

Bureau refronentative with

the notation that he did not

appear to be

idertical

with the

Bureau susiect

tive further stipuláted that any use of the photograghs in en

Investigation should not roval thet the ¡hotographa wore made.

In Mexico or by this Cffice.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1A1-9e1978

B INPOET CL 8: 095*60 -

12713

Downgraded to GUNFIDENTIAL

1 authority of 023 00$ 1271

date.

29u97

248

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

Exchided tom Aunt

dra1.r200g8.

GONFIDENTIAC

201-0532757

---

## Page 65

13-00000.23

SEUFTENTIL

- 2 :

BASIC : MEXICO CIty 5247. (IN 93037)

PROJECI: None

LIAISON:

None

WH, 11

18 April 1968

Distribution:

0r1g & 1

- Federal Bureau of Investigation

2 - CI/OPS/L0

1

a 1111/1/ Chrono

1 • C/VH/FI

201-0832362

---

## Page 66

kid: 00000/81

---

## Page 67

13-000QOUNERASSIFIED : BE CONELUENILAL T

SECRET

L TUP SECRET

1.

2.

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

32%

Tab

2-74 contains

Memo 3-97

dated 25 Opril 68.

I Previously denied in toto under exemption(s) (SAULtS/S) of EDiA.

( ) Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted

under

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3. Further description,

I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

ADD exemption (s)

0f

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny documerit in toto under exemption (s)

of

(A Release a

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

(0X01013186162

of FOLA

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number.

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

7.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

was:

maintained

classified to

declassified

desensitized

Is dongraded to Confidential

UNCHASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

82

IMPDET

CL BY 012170

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 68

10 00000*

3 - 97

25 ARTES

SUBJLCI: Investigation of beath of Martin Luther king. I.

reference is made to our memorandum of 18 april

19t8 which advined.

that ous sopresentative in

hau

passed.

ot an unidentified merican

who visited the

2=

Forwarded herewith are

passed to your bureau apresentative.

is noted in our 10

bell meno, these

Avere passed to your. Bureäu repre

sentative with the notation that they ald not appear to le

identical with the Bureau's suspect.

The Subject of the

attached photos was described as 22-27 years of age, apyrox1-

mately 5 fCet 9 inches to 5 feet 11 inches in height, weight,

aproximatcly 175 pounds, light brown hair. and slightly

ruddy complexion.

marabe used mathe

As noted it our as

spril memo sandum

caressaot

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 1C/ tet 1978

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14 tet/978

8: 0537137

---

## Page 69

13-00000

BASIC I

PROJECI:

25 April 1968

Distribution!

1

- 1.

2

1

Federal

of Investigation

261÷0832132

285

---

## Page 70

13-00000|

CONFIDENMASEM

B-97

SUBJECI!

Investigation of beath of liartin Luther ling. JI.

reference is made to our memorandum of 18 april

1968 which advised that our roprosentative in Mexico Cliy

hai passed copies of photographs of

an unidentificd American

who visited the joviet hibassy in Mexico City.

2. furwarded herewith are copies of the phutographs

passed to your Bureau representative.

is noted in our 18

April memo,

these photos were passed to your bureau regre

sentative with the notation that they did

not appear to be

identical with

the Bureau's suspect.

The subject of the

attached photos was described as 22-27 years of age, auroxi

mately 5 {Cot 9 inches to 5 feet 11 inches in height, weight,

approximately 175 pounds, light brown hair, and slightly

ruddy complexion.

3.

As noted in our 18 duril memorandum the photographs

may be used in the course of an investigation so long as it.

is not connected in any way with this office, and it is not

revealed that the photographs were made in Merico.

CONFIDENT RO

Downgraded 1o -

y authority of 09560F 1291-

date. -

27361273

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

COMPUCTED ON 97C61928

ZE IMPDET CL BY O23 BO

22413

CONFEENTAT

FULL TEXT BONY -- BO

84033213=

285

---

## Page 71

13-00000

60 102 20 20586

- 2 -ANNETENTIAL

BASIC : 8

HMMA 34503

PROJECIS LIONION

25 ApraL 1968

Distributioni

I no

Federal. Bureau o Investigation.

=: WH 1Chrono :

•CI/OP3/DO

CONFIDENTIAL-

201- 0832133

285.

---

## Page 72

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 73

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 74

13-00000

---

## Page 75

13-00000.

an evers

---

## Page 76

13-0000B

---

## Page 77

13.00000

---

## Page 78

13-00000

---

## Page 79

13-00000

* LIED

CONFIDENTIAL

I SECRET

LI TOP SECRET

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

?.

Tab 328 contains Please lens for DeI

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

dated 25 egal 1968

of

Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted

under

On Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3. Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

1. I RECOMMEND: Release in Toes

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

) ADD exemption (s)

• ' DROP exemption (s.

of

( )

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

() Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

;. The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which

would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

Hare nestlation

of CIA employee

File number

(

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI

FBI

agent

file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

was:

maintained

classified to

declassified

desensitized

UNCIASSIFIED

/ CONFIDENTIAL

I SECRET

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 012170

I TOP SECRET

---

## Page 80

13-00000

TOP SECAFF

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

PRESS ITEM FOR THE DCI

UNCLASSITIED

DETROITOR:

DDCI

DDI

DDP

ONT:

OSR

C/OPSCEU

INDICO

CSDO

SAVA

OSD

fE

(81)

med

Dot: 25. AD!

35

KING - SUSPECT. (TOPS 7)

MEXICO CITY (AP)-MEXICAN AUTHORITIES QUESTIONED TODAY A U•S.

CITIZEN THEY SAID RESEMBLES THE MAN WANTAD ON A CHARGE OF SLAYING

OF DRO MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., THEN RELEASED HIM WITHOUT PRESSING

ANY CHARGES•

WHO SAID HE WAS ON A

ROT THE STATE ON SONORABADENTOR ANYHO NAECTION ASTO KANGAS

THE STATE OF SONORA

DEATH•

AN: FBI: AGENT

IDENTIFIED ONLY AS MR. SMITY, SAID THERE

WAS NO RESEMBLANCE BETWEEN KENNEDY AND THE

SUSPECT, JAMES. EARLY

ACCORDING TO POLICE IN THE CITY OF HERMOSILLO

RAYAT• ROBERTO FLETCHER OF THE JUDICIAL POLICE IN CAPORCA, SONORA

HAD TAKEN KENNEDY INTO CUSTODY FROM A CABORCA HOTFI

"THERE IS JUST

EASTJUST NO CONFECTIONOTHER DOESNRT EVER LOOK LERED,

HIM RAY•

CZ110 SAES '4/25

Commens:

5711-0832433

Thage comments ropiesent the initial and tentative resction of the Office

of Gunsent Intelligence to the ottoched ilome from the news services.

---

## Page 81

KB=00000

---

## Page 82

13-00000-

APPHANG REVIEW FORM

329

1b/260 contains DRAFT MEMO -

2077

datca 26 Apr. 1968

¿ Proviously denied in toto unded excmption (s)

reconne

but not sat o requister by it

sxcised portions cromptec

under

(b)(3)

oF FOlA

) Located

during the DDO appeals review.

) Referred to DDO for.

review by

exther description, identification,

*.

commentest and/or referrals, etc.

britcal rassious pace

des, capidinate draft mosi

er/ Nat'l terengi Artell - Board (USIB).

RECOMMEND:

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

( ): ADD exemption (s)

of

•() DROP exemption (s)

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

- Release additional information

with excised portions exempted under

of

) Deny document in toto under exemption(s)

of

Release a sanitizod version with excised portions exempted under

164(1) (4)(31

F0.12

he cremptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information fron i

foreign liaison service

Informatlon pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Informatlon which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Informatlon pertaining.

Bocation

to intelligence: methods

of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal

organizational data

Name

Of FBI agerit

FBi file number

Privacy of other individual

} OTHER

OMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

sring the DDO classification rovicw, this document which was marked

"SECRET

maintained

classified to

declass: Cied

desensitized

* downyrded io Confidential

E2 IMIDET

CI. BY 012170

---

## Page 83

13-00000

"]

DRAFT

26 April 1968

KING ASSASSINATION AND USEB

DCI:

A. Geacral:

1. Request that the Federal Burean of Invertigation

give a full repest to USTBon

(date)

on the status of the invectigation of the assarsication

of Dr. Martin Luther Kiog. Jr.

B. Specific:

l Is there any indication that Ray has left the

USA?.

2. If so, whea, to what contry or area, and by waat

means and route?

3. Is there any indication that Ray had in the past

travelled outside the United States other than the

October - November 1967 trip to Mexico as Galt?

4. Is there zny indication that Ray bad been issued a

U.S, passport under his trug pame or auy of hit

aliases?

ARPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 13 her 1928

---

## Page 84

13-00000

ist.

5.. Is there any indication that Ray had any connection

wich any foreign intelligence nervice? Il so, please

provide all porsible details.

6. Is there aay indication that Ray had auy connection

with foreigners in the United States, especially

Cubens and Sovicta?

7. Did Bay bave asy Coratiet connectiona?

8. Did Ray ever express any interest in Commentem?

9. Did Ray ever indicate any interest in Cuba, Castro,

or the Cuban rerolationt

10. Does it appear that Ray bad anyaccomplices? If

so, have any been identified?

11. Has the FBi identified/or Ray's close riends or

amBociates?

1. Have ary contacts made by Ray in Mexico daring

October/November. 1967 beex identified?

13. If any accomplices; associates, or contacts bare

been identified, are any of them Con

anists or

assoctated with Communists, foreign officials, or

foreigy intelligence services?

---

## Page 85

14. Does the FBI think that Ray was hired to assasatnate

King?

i5. Is so, is there any indication that Communiste or

a foreign power were involved?

16. Has it been possible to secover and trace the origin

of any of the $20 bills uned by Ray to purchage the

silo and make other payments?

17. On 19 April 1968 CIA furnished to the FBI photographa

of anknown individual resembling Ray. Has

the FBI determined whether or not this person is

possibly identical with Ray?

201- 0832137

---

## Page 86

13-000007

COMFAT TIAL

DRAFT

26 April 1968

KING ASSASSINATION AND USIB

DCI:

A. General:

1. Request that the Federal Bureau of Investigation

give a full report to USIB on

(date)

on the status of the investigation of the assassination

of De. Martin Luther King, Jr.

B. Specific:

1. In there any indication that Ray has left the

USA?

2. If so, when, to what country or area, and by what

means and route?.

3. Is there any indication that Ray had in the past

travelled outside the United States other than the

October - November 1967 trip to Mexico as Galt?

%.

Is there any indication that Ray had been lesued a

U.S. passport under his true name or any of his

Downgraded. to

CONENDEN TUAL

•aliases?

y avngi, of 060,928

date te

CLADERO WON NOTEW

CONDUCTED IN 28 7ef 1978

CONGIRISUTIAL

201- 0532137

---

## Page 87

13-00000

CONFIDENTIA!

5. Is there any indication that Ray had any connection

with any foreign intelligence service? If so, please

provide all possible details:

6. Is there any indication that. Ray had any connection

with foreigners inthe United States, especially

Cubans and Soviete?

7. Did Ray have any Communist connections?

8. Did Ray ever express any interest in Communism?

9 Did Ray ever indicate any interest in Cuba, Castro,

or the. Cuban revolution?

10. Does it appear that Ray had any accomplicea? "It

so, have any been identifled?

11. Has the FBI identified /or Ray's close friends or

associates?

12. Have any contacts made by Ray in Mexico during

October/November 1967 been identified?

13. If any accomplices, associates, or contacte have

been identtfied, are any of them Communists or

associated with Communists, foreign officiale, or

foreign intelligence services?

CONFIDENTAL

---

## Page 88

13:00000

CONFUEMIAL

14. Does tho FBI think that Ray was hired to assassinate

King?

15, If so, le there any indication that Communists of

a foreign power were involved?

16. Has it been possible to recover and trace the origin

of any of the $20 bills used by Ray to purchase the

rifle and make other payments?

17. On 19 April 1968 CIA furnished to the FBI photographs

taken in October 1967 at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

City of an unknown individual resembling Ray. Has

the FBI determined whether of not this person is

possibly identical with Ray?

- 201-08

---

## Page 89

13-00000

---

## Page 90

13-00000

APPENS RIVIE TORM

332.

68 contains DiSPATEH DEPA-

w/atte(2)

1097 datod 29 April 1968

Previously denied in toto under exenption(s) (b'1) 013/ (DIG) os Fera

) Segregable portions previously relcased; excised portions exempted

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

) Referred to 0DO for review by

irther description, identification, comnents, and/or referrals; etc.

RECOMMEND:

)

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

(.)

ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

) Sustaln initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

of

) ADD exemption (s)

• ) DROP exemption (s

) Release additional information

with excised portions exempted under

) Deny docunent In toto under exemption(s) -

of

> Release.

i sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

(E1(1(413) (C2(5)

- of .

EOLA.

he exemptions clled nbove are being clained to protect the following:

Information from i foreign liaison service

informatlon pertining to a toreign liaison relationshif

Information

ilich

m/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Informatlon portaining to intelligence methods

Locations of CIA overseas installations

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

6)

Pseudonyms

Cryptonym S

Internal organizational data

OF FBI agent :

FBI file number

Privacy of other individuals

OTHER

puring the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRE

maintained

clasgified to

dechanitied

dehunstlited

I downraded to

confidentitl

1:2

IMVDET

1:1.

BY 012170

ta :

nicode nail

---

## Page 91

13-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTIO

•FO.

Chief.

FON

- Chie

Chief

THOR REQUIRED

Referedo:

MARNED FOR INDEXING

chief

NO MOSKING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

KRCALM

kept.

dated 17 April 1968

reports chat the assassination of Di- luti

Luther ding bad a dramatic and profoundly disturbing impact upon

the rampson verse domine in Daria

Importance in the Black comunity in paris is indicated by the

croninent place accorded her In the nerotial sewice for Dr-

Kingo. (See under separate cover attachment 1)

2. He call your altention to the attached clipping Erom

the 24 April Le Bonde which reports on a press conference iela

b: jases POraran, bead of, the International Affairs department

held at la lastnalite'on 29 April and to be addrassed

Paul Sarisi

Attachments:

1 - Menarial Service Progran. (4/s/c)

2. - La Borde clippiag h/w

Distris

wlatis

Vatts

FOSS REFRENCE TE

APPROVED FOR RELEASE:

Date 20 Mar 197%

DEA I SYMBOL AHD NUMBER

DATE

HES TEN 10X13 1568

68

---

## Page 92

13:00000:

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

---

## Page 93

13-00000 :

SAPÄRACE COVER NTTACIMENTA. T0:

AMDRICAN CONMUNITY SERVICE IN MEWORY OF

THE REV. DR. MANTIN LUTHOR KING

PASTOR - CIVIL RIGUOS LBADER - HOLDOR OP TRE NOBOL POACE PRIZE

8 APRIL 1068

IÃZ CALL TO WORSHLP • The Rev. Robert A. Spencer - American Church

Prayer of Invocation

The lord's Prayor

EXMiT Nos 429 "Por All the Sainto" (vrs. 1-5). Sino Nozino

PROCLAKATION OF THE PRESIDENT

Tho lioni loodrufs dallner,

OD THE UNITOD STATCS

Chargé d'iffaire - U.S. Embassy

OLU SESTANENE LESSONS - Cánon Jamos licivanee: u American Calhociral

Daniel 3:16-25

PRAYERS • Dean Sturgis Riddle - American Cathedral

MESSÁGES FROM THIE FRENCH CHURCHES

'The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal - Foderation Protestanto de Irance

Fa ToY

Higsi• Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of Paris

Pastor Henri Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NOW TISIMVENT LESSONS - The Rev. Dr. Clayton E. Villians,

"Ronans 8:31-39

Pastor Emeritus - Anerican Church

Matthew:10:24-39

ANTACi & Tao Choir

"Pszlu of Penitence" From King David by Arthwr Fonegger

-(Mercy on me, O lord; pity, according to thy great compas-

Wipe away ny transgression; cleanse me unto the depth

of ny iniquity.'. Ir sin vas I conceived.

In evil ras !

snd thou wouldst have a pure soul?

I have sinned.

Thou hast taught me thy visdon, and I have failod in my weak-

nesso. Mercy on ma, O Lord.")

TRIBUTE IO DR. KING - Mrs. Carline Polite - Anerican luthorl

FROM EN ADDRESS DY DA. KING - Washington, D.C.,. Aug: 28,. 1065

Read by Mr. Neville Aurelius • Actor

PRAYORS - The. Rev, Martin v.B, Sargent - Anerican Church

IWN - "We Shall Overcomel

Negro Spiritual

We shall overcome, we shall overcone,

We shall overcome some day.

07, deen in my heart I do believe

Thet we shall overcone someday.

ve shall live in peace, we shall live in peace,

.He shall live in peace

sone day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do belicve

That ve shall live in peace some day.

He shall brotheis be.

we shall brothers be,

We shall brothers be

some day.

•On, acep in ny hoart I do believe

That te shall brothers be sone day,

RECDSSIONAL • The 23rd Psalm

****a book oû condolences

is in the chapel to your righi

..{or those

who wish to

sign its

---

## Page 94

13-00000

1221 40262222810:

DE 06.4.

1230194 22060608

Fictio

2930007886

Tas cornan trcien presicont

Cil Cotrid

au coordinatten des

anjourdin:

ressassole dus 21-

dius

12105

taic.ratloanics cl

C.C

annonce

611'l17

S.N.

raceting

en farcit:

rais lisa à la Mutualite, to 29 arril

20 heures.

Ouire iT.

giul

Torchian,

cariement & ininistre Ces

4250 2 2085 1060ES C-

181.49.

Daniel

Gutsin,

Jean-Poul

participeron:

голё

projcies

de

A.-

.1.7r03.

Al cours

cc sa confúrence

presse,

Ni.

Forcman a

de

Evogué !e

mariatro du pectort Fine.

Die

ger.ncide

contre les

Riote.

gi:3

commet

c=voiteuse

Cite ni.

$.65

ci

blancite

iadop::0n 20r le Co:-

ant

dul

projet

de lo.

clearimiration ra-

lo incas.

contient

Co tex'e

lin

Cor-

clauses rüpressi-

idat

timider

di.

leaders noirs.

taniement

learg

Lint

дд.41

u

1De ce caseres

D:?:

T.O.TCY

emor

(Critsornie),

la sitite

cline fi-

sillade

aViC

police

gill

le

avril

cune noir

jeune

fait la mort

- L11]

dix-sept

ars.

330

---

## Page 95

1300000

DISPATCH

CON

CLASSISICARON

GET/RY BAI

PROCESSING ACTIO

ChLeT HOLDIE

Chret,

HOMOSE;

Chiet.

mies siStation.

EUR Division;

Chief. LCoXeIT/London

CHATEA/EEPROBE/RODICASE

REQUIRED - REFERSNCES

Referests:

MARKED FOR INDEXING

HO INORXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFIM

krat

9 nu 65

03PA-1058, dated 17 April 1968

RODIeS reporto that the assassination of De- Martin

Lucheriting had a dramatic aps profoundly disturbing impact upon

(of the sace girls la Paris flew to the U.S. several days lter

in order to be rehere the action is-" she does not plan to -

retara but was very impressed by bet stay in Paris saying that

she will try to persuade other SNCC nembers to avail themselves

of the valuable experience to be gained fron working with the

rariois devolationary groups ta Paris-, As we foresaw in Reference

thän has left the sace souplin the joint bands of IDENIIeS A al

and g of seference? Invitations bave poured in to speak at

various meetings and appears likely that IDEnTIt A oE

no a super soo at many or these antlugs, me

inportance in the Black commity in Paris is indicated ty tbe

prominent place accorded her in the memorial service for DE-

King: (Soe under separate cover attachment 1) Needless to say

this renders all the more pressing an early decision on the

proposal contained in Reference.

In He call your attention to the attached clipping fron

the 24 April Le Moode which reports on a press conference held

I wanes Foreman, bead of the International Affairs department

of Succ, to anounce a meeting supporting Black Pover to be

neld at ta lataalite'on 29 April and to be addressed by Jeas

Paul SaIIe. QREBOTO/I Cold RODIGAST that theza had been some

Atrachuents:

1 - Memorial Service. Program: (4/s/c).

2 - To Fonde clipping h/w

Distribarion:

FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT RELZAS

M:367 40

# BONEW

COND 281971278

/COSMINICED

Downgraded to GON

(68)

SUREL

1 - c/oR w/atts

A SYMSOL AND NUMBER

0x28-1027

CLASSIRICATION

DATE

HOS FILS BUMAER

100-6-148/2

---

## Page 96

13-00000

ICATION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

CONFIDENTLAL Y a A 3.

OERA-1097

confusion regarding Sartre's willingness to speak.

He had

originally accepted to speak at i culturally oriented "gala"

to be held at the theatre National Populaite and there was

a question legarding his illingness to switch to this more

political atrosphere... The "gala" (see earlier report, paragiaph

C of CErA 918) 15 now beiny planned for sone time in lay-

barking with foreman in planning fot the Mutualite meeting.

She is s0-busy that she has temporarily left her child with her

Bother-, IRITITY C Of Reference is also said to be working on

another praject postoly involving travel vhica la conesdential

at this point.

Adrian Bo HASIDT?

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 97

13-00000

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT I TO:

OБPA-1097

AMORICAN COMMUNITY SERVICE IN MEMORY OF

REV. DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING

PASTOR - CIVIL RIGHES BADER : HOLDER OF PHE NOBEL, POACZ PRIZE

8 APRIL 1968

IIS CALL TO WORSHIP The Rev..Robert A. Spencer • American Church

Prayer of Invocation

The jord's Frayor

HYUN NO. 429 "FOF All the Saints" (Vi56.1-5)

Size Nomine

PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT

The Hon, Woodruit Haliner,

OF THE UNITED STATES

Chargé d'Affaire - U.S. Embassy

OLD IDSTAMENT LESSONS • Canon James MeNamee: - American Cathedral

Psalm 90

Daniel 3:16-25

PRAYERS - Dean Sturgis Riddle • Anerican Cathedral

*MESSAGES FROM THE FRENCE CHURCHES

The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal • Federation Protestante de Fraace

Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of Paris

Pastor Henri Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NON ISSTANONI LASSONS " The REV. Dr. Clayton E.. Villians,

Romans 8:31-59

Pastor Emeritus • American Church

Katthew 10:24-39

NITHEH • Tho Choir

"'Psala of Penitence" From King David by Arthu Honesger

(Merey on me, O lord; pity, according to thy great compas-

Wipe away my transgression, cleanse me urto

the depth

of ny iniquity..

Ix sin was I conceived..

In. evil vas I

And thou wouldst have a pure soul? I have sinnad.

Thou hast taught me thy wisdon, and I have failed in my weal

nesão. Mercy on me, O Lord.")

/ TRIBUTE TO DR. KING - Mrs. Carline Polite - American Author

FROM AN ADDRESS EX DR. KING - Washington, D.C., Aug- 28, 1965

Read by tr. Neville Aurelius • Actor

PRAXERS - The

Rev. Martin v.B, Sargent - American Church

HYMN » "la Shall Overcomel

Negro Spiritual

We shall overcome, we shall

We shall overcome

overcome,

some day.

013 g

deep

in my heart I do believe

That

we shall overcone someday.

Te

shall live in peace, ve shall live in peace,

de shall live in peace

sone day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That ve shell live

'in peace sone day.

le shall brothers be,

we shall brothers be,

We shall brothers be

some day...

Obis deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall brothers be some day,

RECESSIONAL - The 23rd Psalm

à book of condolences

is in the chapel to your righi

those who wish

to sign it.

---

## Page 98

13.00000

sim

EEREVITE ATTACHMEN

S9 10:

122:

DC 4,00.02

Presse

d'une

coordination

sujoürcit!

responsable

faires

C.C.

internationales

arinoncé

qu'un

đu

meeting

en fereur

au & polvoir.noir y 2u-

rais lieu à la Mutualité.

le 20 avril

qui

neures.

Ouira

Toremon.

est également & ministre des

Panne noter adu pati des

Panthères notes,

Aimé Ce-

saire,

Daniel

Gruérir,

Jean-Paul

Sariro

Vercors

participeront

notamment à

cette

réunion

2u

laquelle

deux

flims so

Ion$

projetés

Farez,

Jazz

Now,

de S.

cours

• cauurt-lorde.

Pali

Ce sa, contérence

presse,

Foremen

évoqué

ple

génocide »

tu'E

commet

contre

les Noirs américalrs «

sociét

emploiteuse

dlencie

Ciste: 2.

ct

TC.

l'adoption por le

D01-

projes de lo

interdisant

r2-

clale

CanS

Ic

logement.

Ce texte

ce

101,c0

dont en

tain

110c00*2

Ofes.un cor-

de cleuses

Tis:

répressi

a.1Gg

selon

Ni.

lignider

es leaders noirs.

Forenad

Foremen

izaloment lancé

appel

en

Inemores

faveur

de

plusieurs

ali

Da?!: des

Pentneres

noires

Oakland

(Californie),

la suite

d'une fin

Stade

avec

police

avril

dernier,

Gial

jeune Noir

de

dix-sept ans.

OEPA-1097

---

## Page 99

13-00000

JFKIS

33/

---

## Page 100

13-00000

APPEALS REVIEN FORM

33/

Tab

la-69 contains DISPATCH

HmmA 346880ated 30 May

1/4 alto Crase

I Previously denica in toro under exemption 5 bi (633) 6X6) 05 ERLA

( ) Segregable portions previously released;

excised portions exempted

under

() Located during the DDO appeals review.

() Roferred to 0DO for review by

Further description, identification,

comments, and/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)(5X140)B)lENG)E

FOLA

( ) Abi exenption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

() Sustain initlal relcase of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

C ADD exemption(s

( ) DROP exemption(s)

• ) Release additional information with excisco portions exempted under

* Deny document In toto under exemption (s) =

An. des.

of

) Releaso a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

he exemptions elted ibove are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from i foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

InformatIon which al/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Infornation pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installatign

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonys

Cryptonyns

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

ent coned he comedic.

and tridite

tring the DO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

was:

classified

dactarsified

* conunde to Confidentist

1:2

C:1.

BY 012170

Bris a 12..

---

## Page 101

13-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTABAT

TO

Chief, WH Division

INFO.

FROM

Chiel, NOMUSE

Chief of station, Mexico Citie

SUBJECT

Margaret RANDALL de MONDEAGON.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

RYBAT MHALPHA

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUAUFIED DESK

CAN JOGE INDEXING

MAROHLA

A Marrias

Action Required: See paragraph 3.

Reference

HMMW-16296, 5 April 1968

1.

The following items

from LIBIGHT/LIMUD

concern contacts of Subject who are believed to

coverage

be of interest:

A. : Attachment A: A letter from CAW,

the

magazine of Students for a Democratic Society, signed

by Jerry #3ODANEs,

thanks Margaret for her poems

which they are using.

The magazine is scheduled to

be off the press around May 10.

The letter clearly

indicates that the SDS was behind the student seizure

of Columbia University. It says,

"Right now our

glorious brothers have seized Columbia University-

now named Malcolm & University--and over which an

N.L.F. flag now flies. The others, faculty, deans,

managers, are all scurrying and speaking pious

saying SDS this," SDS that,

"while we hold

buildings in joyousness and the most serious

preparations to resist, our movement has over reached."

Enclosed is a check made out against the account of

the SDS in the Chemical Bank New York Trust Company,

2681 Broadway, New York, for the anount of $50, and

signed by Robert M. *SHAPIRO.

Continued.

Attachments:

As listed (9), h/w

EULL TEXI COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

Distributior:

Orig &

2

- C/WHD (w/atts

- 1 copy each)

2 - C/ WOMUSE

(w/o atts)

Downgraded to HiNE DE TA

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON_

mashis

EL, ZIMPDET CLEY EY_20756S

013720

DATE

HMMA - 34688

CLASSIFICATION

CONEIDENIIAL

20 May 1968

Excluded 1: M05 FILE AWMBER

1: 365

201 -

1-69

---

## Page 102

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

ICATION

DISPATCH GYMBOL AND NUMHEA

HMMA-34688

Attachment B:

Letter from Heiner

#BASTIAN,

1415 Kearny St., San Francisco,

California 94135,

signed Heiner &

BASTIAN has made arrangements

with the editor-in-chief of AKZENTE to publish works

of revolutionary poets, and he asks Margaret's

help in collecting them. BASTIAN says that he is

going to Berlin about I July, to Prague in early

autumn for a "group 47 meeting," and to Cuba in

November.

Letter from Jaime #CARRERO,

Art Department of the

Interamerican University in

San German, Puerto Rico.

CARRERO has apparently sent

Margaret a series of drawings based on Dr, Martin

Luther KING's assassination.

He describes them as

"poetic...but full with guts and disgust."

there is a possibility CBS will do a program on

his paintings and the work in his Art Department.

CARRERO is going to Columbia University in the

Summer of 1968

to study and plans

El Corno there.

D.

Attachment D: Letter from Susan *SHERMAN,

305 E.

6th St., No. 3, New York,

N. Y. (see HMMA-

33837).

She tells of

her plans

go to StoneyBrook

on 23 April to speak about the conference for

their

week of protest activities.

She tells Margaret

that there are three people in Cuba she

would be interested in

"The Hippie Book."

aTe

Jose *BELL Lara,

J#556, Vedado,

Habana;

who is connected with Pensimento Critico; Cuban

psychologist Gustavo *TORROELLA, Ave. 3A

99-4722,

Marianao, Habana, de Organismos Internacionales,

MINREX-Direccion

Depto. ONU 516, La Habana.

Margaret got a letter from

someone associated

with CATERPILLAR.

He is thinking

of getting married to Marie *BENOIT

in England this

summer when he goes there to work in applied

philosophy.

Therefore, he tells Margaret he cannot

go to Cuba

as planned.

Attachment

An interesting

development was the

fact that Margaret kaNDalL received a letter from Moscow from

Luis *SUARDIAZ, whose return address was given as the Cuban

Embassy:

SUARDIAZ asks for Suzan SHERMAN

(see paragraph ID above).

SUARDIAZ says he will be working

as Cultural Counselor in

the Cuban Embassy and hopes Margaret

will keep

in touch with him and send him things of interest

(in a literary line).

In attachment G,

Sergia MONDRAGON, Subject's husband,

indicates, that Margaret RANDALL 15 planning to travel to

Venezuelg from 15 to 30 June.

It is suggested that Head-

quarters may wish to send Venezuela some

background information

on Margaret with suggestions for action by the Venezuela

Station.

•OpM

1.01

101

. 53 c

CORFIDENTINE

SECRET/RYBAT

CONTINUED

PAGENO.

2 of 3

---

## Page 103

13-00000

GONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENEAAT

HMMA - 34688

4.

Attachments ll and i concern a book which Margaret

is hoping

to write on Fidel CASTRO.

According to

Sergio's

letter of April 18,

with

she is planning to go to Cuba in October

a tape recorder, and then, based on these tapes, will

write her book.

Sergio

however,

on

25

suggests Doubleday

as a publisher;

April 1968

Paula NcGuire

of Pantheon Books

(attachment I) wrote Margaret

saying

that publisher might be

interested.

It is suggested

that WOLIME may have contacts

in these two publishing houses.

for Willard C. CURTIS

FOrd

3-as

53g

GORE EAT

CONTINUES

PAGENO.

3 of 3

---

## Page 104

#1719-31658

13-00000

OtA

ChiAt

(Badanss)

У волов

---

## Page 105

13-00000

24r/20412

Dia Minget Randall,

Thank yu very mind bes

Une eat gost preme, Wear

any i ten is the can

a will et you bun enth witch mes.

I my to coming out

out oving

May 10. Right now on plannin

Lathes have reed Colombia Univenty -

we need Malcon t Univers

and over which an Nif fly son

fles- The others, facil, Deans, Manezes,.

au all surizing and biking peates ining

sps ties, 505 that

---

## Page 106

13-00000

do vast, our movement him ore, readin

Jang Bacones

check enclose

---

## Page 107

13-00000

Mo a Randy in

Nat Xon

1/07231

4A51 18 31068 110

A 447

84-5800222

1M₫14

---

## Page 108

Mainer Unstian

141)

Jan

nearny it

Francisco

Cal.

J+193/U3A:

-PM

1968

- LAW DAY U.

FREEDOM UNCE A

- MAY

VIA AIR MAIL

margaret Kandall

caitor

In chief of kh como intumaDy

Apartailo Postal Nam.

19-546

Mexico.

13, 0.F.

Mexico

13-00000

---

## Page 109

13, 00900

Dear rarcaret;

I would laire co

nons jou for your leiter and the

two 1asued of "al corno".. The rason for sy late

answer

13 simpl; chai i salted for

the derinite

devision of the entor in chiet of Axcants zoou.

our projeur. ubs answer. as a total agreement!

I aia Very pleased poout that and I hope that

jou are

too. 1 kould

that you

coilect

about lo -10 revolutionary poet.

Tou snould

write an introdustzon or knatever you like.

I olso suggest that you onu not sergio should

collect ac. dad, or less "other"

poets, It sou

don't want to do that, please arrange sonething with sergio.

It makes things much encier for me Juailings, translations,

proots, etc)

I need

all. the material la acout 5 -o weeks. If this

aate glar put pressure on you,

let de kaos.

He are golia

Li abuuù lo weets to berlin,

in cariy

AULLAN tO

Precue laroup +T meeting) and will

50 to

Juvs early novaiber. At unca iime te should de aole

no lus-sund: in che last analysis, all the truths

not marxi:a can Da aunnou up in one sentence: "to

reDed 13

justlfzed."... Accordin.

to

this

principle,

and susist, strucute, build soziplisa.

some to you and you chitter

hives a ciline

---

## Page 110

HANA-BHD58

Jaime Garr

Departmaneto de Arte

Univarsidad Interamoricana

San German, Puorto Rico

00753

CORATO AEREO

8961

63 8J8

430.

---

## Page 111

13-00000:

Puerto Rico

April

Dear Hag:

co dis

Chatt

mine.

BrOup of. Cornos $24 and 25,26, I've

of

based on Die

Martin Luther

chla

Vesy

ded,

that

you are wOrkINg

under

3009 JeTi

sand some

money

you bave any last. These

atrantion especially In

doing arogran of what I an

ox Art Departzank- 1£ 1t comes

verd 02

two about el Corno. This 1a

- 211

the dalla

New York

CUT THI

An juna- celll agust-and I°1l

•º Columbite

I'll tako with me

BONS cOrnOs

IE

#ass to

Sive any nessages

os anything

213 Man

Pork wallo chore-please-let no. know.

Hag. cono

alemp

•la Lamilla cocolvos ny boat

you my alncere

love and efforts.

" Be criful which mining.

---

## Page 112

13-000.00.

HANA: 34653.

AuD.

106

Suman Shezin

305

E.

6ch St: #3

New York,

N.y.

10003

U.S.A.

YORK

"APR'25

1968

Margarot Randell

efe: El Corno. Empluraio

$1 30545

Mexico 13

D.Fs

AMEL

1 CANCER

E-

PER SOCIETY

VIA AIR MAIL

---

## Page 113

13-00000

125.50

78 E.4

STREET

NYC, NY

(163)

TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 1968

Dear Mag,

Just a notar 1'n soing this

altarnoon to StonayArook to

spealt

abour the conferenc

for thale beal of protear activities.

finally got moss of my

thinga & I have a packer of

poetry

that I'm sure van mant for jour it was the poema

Tania sean:

for poisit mar have gotten nined up la my

things.

In any case

l'a sandlas then la i separate envelop Al--Hall.

The Hippla Book de really great looking,

thank you for 1t.

There

are tho

people in tube & thick wuld bo

very Interasted in

One worka on Penalmento Ciltico.

Jose Boll Wars,

a could send to opta, Jodada, Hate our para cuba ty

wanted Informtion about the Hippled, 122, Marianao,

paychologist

Gustave Terroella,

Haband,

who was sino story

satrasted in anyoning concarning hippples.

Also Lobania Arueas

99-4722,

MIRES Direcion de Orgalamos

Internelosales, Depto, HIs ONU 516, Is Haband,

Last sanka Xrays.:

sons coy as 11 I also have a saall ulcar which showed up 05

But I'n foollag much,

mach battar now.

I"m goode

(bur then I dont give nysal!

agrivation so Lis only partly up to me).

That was what was

probably caustag all

cho Izouble In Gaba.

Anyway,

I'm much

better 204.

I coully have to loin not to take everyching so

much to heart--bus Cata & Long 100108.

I'm golny to try to gor the taque la shapo tha nest law daya.

wild siva blow by blos desciptions.

80 you'll probably Da

bearing from no quite

often.

Its Loury cold here again, I think

Spring t00k a look al Now York and decidad to go elsewherel

Lovo, & noro,

Jason

---

## Page 114

13-00000

#11 117-311655

CATERPILLAR

N3S GREENE STREET

NEW YORK, MX: 10013

MIR

MAIL

APR. 29

8g6;

ST.

Mea Randau

Apontado Postal 13-58

mexico 137 DIF

MEXICO

---

## Page 115

13-00000

28 Aml 1468

dear Meg,

I am sorry to have put the Japanese filmmaker on you; my

misjudgement. You were right to send the thing back to me.

Some changes in my life häve recently re-determined the

summer, and I am doubtful tonight, really doubtful for the

first time (tho I have been thinking about this for a couple of

weeks, but have not written because Everything was up in the

air), about the trip this summer.

The thing is that a more im-

portant thing has come up, namely going to England this fall

to do some very important work in an applied philosophy called

Scientology (to go "clear" as they call it), and doing that I

must teach all summer to make money and also to do work on

the fall issue of CATERPILLAR,

Marie Renoit and I are

seriously considaring getting marrled in England, and while

I could put the trip off until next spring, she wants to do the

thing this fall, and we both want to go clear together. So,

considering all of thig, I think you should scratch my name,

and bope I can go to Cuba later as well as hope the Cubana

will see fit to invite me later (I have heard nothing from any

Cubans about the trip this summer, so l flgured it is not com-

pletely set).

All of the other names I sent you are still to my

Home

not is

knowledge goodS'it I hear otherwise I will write you immediately.

24620 :

CATERPILLAR 3/4 la out, and 3 copies are on their way to you.

I will mall a box of #2 and more*3/4s when I get the time.

Sorry

Contact ther

not to ho sent more, but only 3 went out to the contributors this

time and I forgot about you sending some to Cuba when I mailed

yours.

Saw Serglo a few weeks ago,

It was nice to see him.

We had supper in Chinatown and I gave him a new poem.

A number of people have commented on your prose/poem in

#3/4. Very impresaive is the general word. I hope it looks good

to you when you see the magarine.

I have a great deal new

work; are you open to printing more of my poetry in a forthcoming

EL CORNO?

I hope you are not upset my change in plans. This.

Sunday is the first day they have been defiaise.

Hoping your

life goes well these days,

attectionaly.

---

## Page 116

13-00000

+11A-346553

AteF

maranel sondial

Pato No 13-546

omelics or

noio

NOIAY ard

---

## Page 117

Eg-00000

me den quede na

Cagas hierre de liber el Mi )

ingle eventudmente vici

¿Causeso de cento

lasante tramata, di

aur Cuando ar le

entir la Mistincio Go dejes de

hacien y todo tuete

---

## Page 118

13-00000

racin misante si direccini es

Que pales de

Sheri

in? Salids a Sin

meros onesiconis

---

## Page 119

H519-34635

13-00000 €

Ой : G

Mondraqstate U

Titwaa]

Deptrat forergn

Normal, Ill, 61761.

Buevi

1955

S/7:

:Randall

Me ent стрешне

Apagtadio.

TPostil 13-546

México.

13,

D. F.

MEXICO

---

## Page 120

13,00000

SCHEDULE B

Supplemental Schedule of income and

(Am 1040)

Rotiroment Income Credit

(re poles

ramanipa, and intele on treats

hey schedule do your tricene tas rutin Fenna 1040

1967

Aromas rooshrad this year -

%

• ol line 4 over lime 5).

in ill to repend tar-trea mento 3 goers

calved this year. • . *

cable partica (

3, 1f 327, 0l line & oree ine 3) -

amn 2 plas column 3 less columne 4, 8, ard 6)

SHIPS ESTATESOR TRUSTS, LIG

pube and matine of income

Idion; sod employer identification numbery.

Nicetan mumber) .

at ran lina rom 10400.

ED IN PART I ABOVE Tra schedula la disi

sun 6322 and 5013 an wal as for these taxpayer who wish

se the first nanding for degractatior

2 Total de

SUMMARY

OF DEPRECIA

Stars: (ponsity)

53-71.

---

## Page 121

13-00000

- RETIREMENT INCOME CREDIT

iner Ruin

it Just racis

1 actor noce

& Rathe

(a) Far bapurens vender de

0o) Foo taxpayers 50 yena i ne

nter totai of pension

ina 9, Form 1040

and annuitica, ini

a dad it ode included an paro do

Maximum amount al

estation

(D)

rosd Rat

Eared lacon

(2) Тахрау

(2) Taxpayer

It $3,300

zulty Act, the A

9Y20 09 09971-

ances of $900 i d

etarmined as foliom

mhai ½ of amount ony 31,201

FAWARE

or ill

A Triad of lines 3(9) and 3(9)

• Eblance (subtract )ine 4 from line

$ Lins 5 or line 1, whichever is usan

(n) Tortil (sale aroundo 0s

•(D) Amount From liao 7 of part

E Tentrtiva credit.

Erter 1595 Gl

LIANATION

= Amount of bair ahea on past la lina 23,

10 Loss: Credits claimed for tortign ban

11

Subtract ine 20 f

22 Cradiz. Emer here:

7(2)

carament band, o25.

190, te

ugh 7(s) ahone)

Aftermative C

avaltanta i#t

a aire Des, in dever

Гисудий 1т додес слава рія варя ви ви

Ratirement Incorne of both humband and wite from pensions and ampitas

• Laterant,

on page 1, lina 9, Form 1040, and gros ranta from Pert il, calary 2 of thin

2 Maximam amount of futiramon insore for tradit compation.

3 Daduct

(p) Earad Imone recried (Doss list apply to

I 91,200 pe indo enter 200. .!.

Si over $1,200 bart mad coer $1,700 ontar 3g ol

arount Cal 4AE C

lE over $1,700, ontar encase over $1,480 .

# Total of linea 3(a) and 3(5)

5 Tolai (add areunts on line & coiumns A and F)

* Briana fountract line 5 from the 2)

2 Enter here are on lina 210) at part A above me amount on lins 5 or li

i dinings

D M

$1,924

$1,52% C0

---

## Page 122

13-00000

115

SERGIO MONDRAGON

роти раїн-тар-

May L719 68

20. 1499

Margaret Randal

3$ 150,00

ARS NATORAL BANK SI Mer

180-351

836F

---

## Page 123

13-00000

275542

Mi qu En es que dio de la

no? lime si ves a in en Neuzuela

del 15 al 30 de junio, peni hacer

mir planes. Geo que llegare alli

el 15é 16 de jencio, Siludos! Sergio

---

## Page 124

13-00000

Mondragon - Dept, of foreign languages.

ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY

NORMAL, ILLINOIS 61761

P14

*1955

19176)

MAIL

margaret randali

ed corin emplumado

÷ apartado postal 13-546

mexico 13, d.f.

---

## Page 125

13-00000

ILLINOIS

STATE

UNIVERSITY

NORMAL,

ILLINOIS.

61781

generee numerarel

abr1l. 18 de 1968.

•quarida mog:

acaban de llegarme cono sel cartaa tuyas Juntas, con fotos, cartas de

los chics, noticias, etc, gracias. lstina del pelo de saris, ess es una de las razones

-la Inica razón- por lo cual no la gusta que los chica pasen la noche en tlalpan por la

Insalubridad, estoy seguro que los piojos los toman allá muchas veces. en fia, qué tala

noticia lo del cochuo mog, no te pareco que tus amigos por lo menos dos anigos. estás

tomando

ventajas de ti? primero fue rodolfo, quien desaparaco con la grabadora, Ja la

devolviõt y ahora otro anigo te choca el coche y to te lo paga, dicas que to va a costar

mãs de nil pesos, te pareco Justo? a mi 1o.

Eracias por los ocho dólares da ni nota cobraste mis 700 pasos de educación?

estuve en mueva york para las vacaciónes de pascusio me quedé con Ibandro y evt. ful tan-

bión a nontral J visité a los bovering recordanos muchas cosas, hablanos horas acerca

de tiempos felices, cuando tú y yo éraros una paraja llena de amor. alli estaba Bail

leonel kearns y otro poota canadiense que lenos publicado y no recuerdo su nombre, dicen qu

e tal voz vengan pronto a méxico, en 1-y. Vi. a 103 petersen, me trataron muy bien. te mar

dan muchos saludos y es casi seguro que vengan a néxico en el varano, Jo les invité a

quedarse en 1a

casa, ya sea que

ta estés a111 o on venazuela, siendo tan anigos tuyos

creo que está bien. pero ellos alquilarán un apartamento, por 10 mnos la mayor parte del

tiempo, vi también a sara blackburn, mujer naravillosa con quien hice mucha anistad.

e entusiasó la 1dea de tu Itoro sobre castro que vas a hacer en octubre con la grabados

¡nIjo que lla pourta proponer esa ita Itruy ma edlotrial grande cono boubled:

a otra igual. me parece que to va aa seribir.

sabes que olla tiene mucha intluencia en

un lavor para olla:

el mundo ?iteraria de la grandes compaltas editorialean quiero pedia Esta, Doy 6u, 10011-

envíale el libro de o, pas "corriente alterna" a su domicilio,

cuesta como 12.00 pesos, es urgente,, gracias, vi tanbión à clayton estolnan, no invitó a

está nuy bien, najor que nunca y my amistoso, conoci también a su mujer, que

ne pareció una mujer my

te

triste,

aunque bugna. evi y leardro están bien.

todos

quieren muchoy te admiran y admiran al como, la revista se agota en tres días

8

ste

bookshdp".

androi cocrescu ne dijo que debes enviar más ejemplares. tienen en la tien

da un aviso de tu libro,

anunciado entre las "novedades"

felicidades por tu antología de poesía revolucionaria. y por el manus

crito que te piden en londres, parece que una compalia grando do aquí quiere que les

haga ma antologla de poesia hisp.

-anos a ver, que sucedió con mí libro en el fondo?

la unive sidad parece que no va a publicar ni libro mala suarto la de ese aprendiz do

brujo, ángela y george están mur bien. parece que se aman mucho. angela y todos,

clayton,

etcag

cuando subor que vas a cusa en octubra, dijeron Inmediatamente que

50c1g

tal vez vas a ser ms. fidel castro, o al renos su amante, sara dijo que se moria de en-

ridiao

han salido más cosas del corno en 1o9 periódicos, enviane alemos recortes.

ana a los chios y cuidate, to mandé una carta hablándote de los poemas de marco

antonio, también envié ya su manuscrito de regreso, y na quede con unos posnas suyos.

escribeme, aine si crees que los niños están regionulendo mucho la separación, y en que

formdo abrazos y abrazos.

Sergio

---

## Page 126

13-00000

S5744-0ÜLH

ATH MATI

427 MADISO

AVENUE NEW YORK. N.Y

PANTHEON BOOKS

PANTHEON BOOKS

ST MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK. MY 1002

A BITESSON (E RANDOSS HOUSE, INC

Panda MrGuin

M April 25, 1968

Has Margaret Rendel

Apartado Postal 13-511

Mexico 13, Dal, "

Doar Alas RendeLs

My former colleagus Bars Blackburn (aho sends hor

lovel has told ne that the recently heard through

your husband about your plans for & trip to Cuba

im orior to mrite a book on Gastro.

I should be

very interested to know more about your plane idth

i tiew towards the possibility of publishing your

book and home you'll be able to write no.

Inoidentally, we are about to publish Jose Xglesias

In the Flot of tha Revolutioni Life in a Cuban

Country Lown.

I thought you d be Interested to road

It and have sont you a sony under soparate dover.

Iours sinceroly,

Paula He Guire

---

## Page 127

13-00000

TAS

$ 3347

No Doast

ATTACHED

---

## Page 128

13-00000

---

## Page 129

13-00000:

??::

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

333

Tao 9-55 contains MEMO

B- 173

dated

WATT INEWSPAPEN

19 Sept 1968.

1) Previously denied necommenden peo

А пованя ї педіли ву iPs

V) Segregable portions previously/rolcasee, excised portions exempted

of FOIA

() Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND: *

() Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

of

( )

ADD exemption (s)

( )

DROP exemption (s)

~C0 Sustain initial

sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ex pte exaption 5) (8l 131

of Folt.

( ) DROP exemption (s)

-(41/11

( ) Release additionil information with excised portions exempted under

() Deny document in tuto under exemption(s) _

of

Release i sanitized version

with excised portions exempted under

The exemptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information fron a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Informatlon which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining

Informatlon pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of. CIA overseas installation

Location

Nane

of unacknowledged domestic installation

OE CIA employee

File number/ Mee

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

uring the DDO classification review; this document which was marke

-SECRE

maintained

classified 10

declassified

desensitized

.....

doungraded to

1:2

IMPOST

C!. BY 012170

---

## Page 130

13-00000

1 9 SEP 1968

2 SUBJECT: Stokely. CARMICHAEL

Attached is a copy of an article appearing

the 9-15 May 1968 issue of Clarte,

weekly newspaper of

the Belgian Communist Party Marxist-leninist) covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published

in the 1 May issue of llumanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

French Communist Party

• (Marxist-Leninist):

The interview

was conducted when CARHICHAEL was in Paris, France.

Also contained in the clipping is a report of an.

interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the

- assassination of DI. Martin Luther KING. . CARMICIAEL was

in liavana, Cuba, at the time.

FLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY WA LAWSCH, MR. S. J. PAPICH

Based

on Glarte, Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),

9÷15 May 1968

Enclosure: as stated (one)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 13 Mark 78.

---

## Page 131

13-00000

lo peuple soviétique est fidèle

STALINE !

TUC

¿Fondoteur : Honoró WILLEMS, fusillé par les nozis, le 29 février 1944

NÉDACTICH

ADRRENOTRATICN

32, chausse: d'Alsamborg,

DAUXELLES G

TSI. (01) 07.76.00

ORGANE CENTRAL DU PARTI COMMUNIOTE

(MATHIOTE-LENINISTES, DE DÉLCIOUE

GIBU-QUE LA DIRECTION DU PARTI ET DE L'ETAT

SOVIRTIQUES SOT A PRECENT USURPEE PAR DES

REVISIONNISTES, JE CONCEILLE AUX CAMARADES

•D'AVOIR LA CONVICTION QUE LES LARGES MIAS-

SES DU PEUFLE SONIETIQUE, DES MANDAES DU

PANTI ET DES CADRES SONT CONO ET VEULENT

FAIRE LA REVOLUTION; LA DONATION DU FE.

VICIONVIONE NE SERA RAO LONESE.

MInOTSE-TOUNG.

HEDDONADAINE

NOUVELLE SERIE - Numéro 20

Comateo du 0 au 15 mai 1050

(Tarif d'abonnements: pages 8)

---

## Page 132

13-00000

Soclely CARNICILACL

Noise obicodd linal:

Nous atroquer au

structures copitastes

des U.S.A

Dans con numéro du Preinter Mal, l'a kumanisNouvelle», organe central du Parti

Connuniote Mamiste-Lérinicto de France a pubi une intervice de Slockly Carmal-

chast, leader du "Dlack Power» (Pouvoir Noir)Colte intervici'a été réalicie par un

samprade africain lors, du rúsont cájour de Carmicasl à Paris.

Le Dlack Power cot un mouvement ce masse de Afro-américains, Certaines de ces

pacitions peuvent ne pas toijcurs coïncider avecselles des marxistes-léninicles mais:

Il est'évident que le combat du Black Power est kroïque, courageusement anti-raciote,

cul tropérialicie.

C'cot cola qqui est. imporiant: C'cot pour celte.

inaiguable document.

rison que nous reproduicons ce re.

Li arinde

1at0 du combattrito

STOCKELY CARMICHEL - L'aspect principal de la situation du

Gul differie sur leneindes silla ia

peuplo alro-américain esteclui d'uno nouvello forme do coloninlisme

Intérieur, Il engit d'une situation precque originalo qui impliquo

Mirrigur, des lappe: 119s ps difro-arco-

que noire lutle so fixo deux objectifs principaux :

indien cortro les fielle demetlosanl.

"-Olfactit numéro 1dliminer l'oppression colonialo qui nous

•.At9

tantsance racistes et l'osdro

Visa en tant que Noirs sur le tripio plan économique, social ot por

Buteur: du les affadelle lespérialeilo

mand, tomoren de le dulte fie

obloci numéro 2 nous niquor aux stuctures captalcios

ol Importallites dos U,S.A.

11.10 1, 8:110

contiers,

l-ostevident quo l'objecurinod.cor onsontiellonent pourviv! par:

les soulo alro minérienine. Ounnt A l'objectit n92, 1 concertera tous

le revoulonnolrne

---

## Page 133

13-00000

Mortes ton.

a cigutation intricain. il

land sans ho latle dex peuples - et

inandrement eu pougle mrurand.

conscience guld

cesto la sialenen révolationactr berit

sir-

lasmara.

nioly,

pergie adorancérendo, en l'emirai-

tant gre.185c90e18 d 1910 scorales-

Mo dinecales ce do bagarron, ta

priment des bradlers

trent dort

'Tintes

12-1-08). B1014- 11 11104156

cul adres congoléalloden, allos cellerd, de dess

no certes, a qu'ifourssus, de tois

To puy's a (l'Iconomit dir J1-1

Londres).

que dit cette voir. Ds nurllo lie-

tre duss rares su do raclaio carnees

Tretremnt Inportant? fourguel

progres lites dologuit-das la souscule

ol la fatra coniiiro y.

Drs répanurs apparaitront diams lo

enars du l'esposó que Stolirly Car-

antehel nous il falt recemment et

- 71000

Carbone

- la probicine do l'oxplollation.

J'ai indiqué plus haut que l'objectif 1'2 clait une couvic d'ensch-

bie; simplemeni parce qu'il visait à résoudre un probionie qui

n'est pas particulior aux Nois: le problome de l'exploitalion de

l'homme par liomme, Il n'est pas nécessairement lié à la couleur

de la pcau.

Quant au probitmo du raciome, on peut dire qu'il est spécilique

à l'homme noir. On pout mumo poser l'équation ivanto : Noir ==

Prolétariat dit monde. A cause de sa soulo pen

L'Occidont Blane no pout pas nier s'étre d

de Noir. Prenez les Antillos trançaises, holland

Pranoz Ion Elats-Unis des aidclim

los alais-Unis d'aujourd'hui, Pronez l'Afrique.

quente à co sujet.

l.co. Dinnes. de lOccidont trouvent leur jur

ill

d'occidenial

dans la négation du Noir en tant que Noir. lls ol

du Noir un être

cub-humain pour rationaliser l'exploilation du

Isdir. Pour no pas

s'hurnilier

en tant qu'hoinines.

- Oul, bien sûr, il y a le « Code Noir» de Colbert. Mais lout de

mômc.

celle cxploitation du Woir ne pout pas dire simplement un

fait die psychologic appliquée, car en fait, le racionie apparait bien

comme une maniloctation, de la tulle des classes. ll n'y a qu'à ro-

picsdre les cremples.

STOCKELY. - D'abord, il y a on problème Immédiat : solil de la

prica do concolenco do la viclimo en lico. du bourrcau. C'cot en

lant que Noirs que nous entendons nous battre.

Il reclo qu'aux Etals-Unis, un Noir « bion placé » sur le plan éco-

nomique n'échappe pas au racisme.

Il n'oal que de lire la presse américaine pour s'en

convaincre. Lo

problème du raciomo ici n'est pas nécessairement lié au problèmo

do l'oxploilation.

•Le racisme falt partie de l'arsenal idéologique et pratique de l'im-

périatiome ainéricain. Les Noirs sont d'autant plus expocés que les

Blancs occidentaux ont détruit les

cultures africaines

de lhomme

noir, Ics Noirs,

dans le monde, parlent la langue de leurs mailros.

Or la

cullure comme dit Fanon, est une " force

cohesive ";

leur faut donc

aussi résister à cotte culture

d'imposition (le plagin,

ic petil-negro ?).

Dans lo

cadro des Airo-américalis cola transparait sous la

1or-

mo du christianisme. Le christianisie est une culture d'imposition,

c'est-à-dire cosentiellument une culture impérialiste, parce quo liée

à l'idéo

de la valcur universolle du maitro. Vous devez en savoir

quelque choco en Arique, avoc la cortège de conversions forcocs.

En falt, In libération culturolle est uno choso très importanto. Elle.

•doll viser à répotor lo ayatomo d'éducation du maitra (on lant quo

espido final de temporision culturalto) education popllatiolo ving

ma Ella ost nécrocairciani politige.

-- L'uno des limilos objecio des dirigean's qui nous ont ficié

dés cal la suivante : il ont fit april aux oppresacura ci non dar

opprimós. Nous, nous faisons appol aux opprimas, Nous leur d

gonsi vous voulez elie libres, il faut vous buttre lu le pisident

Mao Tsé-toung indique avec mison quo « le pouvoir cot au bout du

fusil ». C'col justo. Nous oproserons nos fusile libéraicura aux fusils

racistes de l'impérialione amiricain, dans ses propros villes.

Nous le forcerons à ce batre comme nous l'ontendrons. Comme

font nos amarados vioinamins. Gil vout ulliser du napalm el des

rockels sur ses propres villes, nous ny voyons pas d'inconvénicnis,

mais nous nous battrons, d'est und cloco entonduo,

- Vois-lu un rapport onio votro luile cl colles des camarados

vicinamiens, et des quires peuples en lulte contre lingeratome,

Bich evidemmont, chaque

mio les boce de Mimportabamo

cont minées à l'extéricur, notro lutle s'en trouve proportionnelle-

mont avanlagéo.

Nous voudrions blen par cxemple qu'il co trouve un seul pajs

africain qui so dóveloppo par teo propres ciforts, clonon en allant

mendier chez les Dlancs occulentaux.

Nous en nurions fait, pom in mobilication de nos mances fonda-

mentales un modelo psychoigique et mathodique à la fois. Mais

on no poul pas dire qu'il y nil un soul paya tovolutionnaire en Alri-

quo à l'houro acluollo, C'est d'aillours pour cola que l'O.U.A. est

paralycéc. Aujourd'hul, si des Noirs américains avaient à s'exiler on

Mírique, pas un soul pays altionin no les accopierait pour la bonno

raison que tous cos pays conl soumis au joug de l'inpérialieme

politos bourgeoisies contre-révolutionnaires

voir en Mirique sont intéodica à Jolinson, el exploient leur pro-

pres frères de couleur.

— Quelle cut votre tache principale en ce moment. Colle qui ro-

quleri actuellement la priorité ?

• D'abord, éliminer nos ennomis, c'est-à-dire lous les mouvements

contre-révolutionnaires voulnal d'intégrer à la socioté

capitalisio

Ensuite, organiser notre polnie pour qu'il nequierre le mordant o-

fensil, condition sine gua non pnur briser le statut quo d'adjourd'hui.

Cor c'est bien cola que signific la lutte délensive des Luther King

ot autres.

Pour vaincre, il s'agit d'allaguer. C'est un programme minimum.

Interview teléphonique a Radio-La Havane

Déclaration de Coumichaöl à la suite

---

## Page 134

13-00000

eusami olles

•si bonitas inst dotara dio lea d908a860197-

tirn destruirant. en

-mendà co que sugero and dijo

Miles. tras cleopolar 'll

Marinido,

Note somunet,

Lout,

cing camarades ray parloan trin

remend, tino camarade afra-ané-

Maulorild do la tradiollos, Era 111-

ILISINSA,

Totabir ot a perpoter la Sociolo capialisic.

a Pintiquemont, comment lout cola poui-ll d'agencer ?

En organisant los Noirs. Mictoriquement, nous vonoris tous d'Alri-

que. To nous eirperzant dado lour mondo, deo illanes occidentaux

nous out apprio, par la némative ceiten, maio nous ont appris guand

méme à apprécier l'unilé, Nous cavons aujourd'hui, que l'uniló, c'cot

In puicaanco. C'est pour réalicor col inmoralit d'unitó que nous a-

vono arretá, dane un premier tempo, do nous réalicer culturollement,

en rojetant lo chrlolioniomo (culluro ‹'imposition, lido à l'ideo do su-

prématio de la culitro des Blanca occidentaux).

a le poneno a recondre det coin de creer des révolutionmaires

noiro. Pour noua, cola signilio 3 objectilo :

1 Adoplion d'uno langue

nationtle niricaino: lo swahill, par

excipio.

2. Destruction du christianismo.

3.

Rerecouvrir lAfrique, mais cune mantere acionlifique, pour y

puicer nos probros modo, nu leu cascomer los Horos blanes

ocoidentaux.

En commo, recréer notre culture pour en faire une force do cohó-

sion.

Degager uno Idéologio polilique communo. A cet égard l'expérion-

ce de In Révolution chinoice est riche d'exemples mobilisatours..

Notre lacho à nous est de luller pour acquérir uno idéologie cor-

recle, capable d'unilier lous les Noirs.

La ciono fondamonialo à rotonir, c'ost de contribuer a dévalopper

la conscienco qui coit amenor l'Américain noir a résistor. Cotie

concclenco est nécescalro.

de l'assassindr dã amm "Tother" King

La guerro da guésilla

dons les villes

moril american

matifranet

Browne en presen ef lileo todo de

!:.

propindione modre den lital. e i

metro dueles de dolence, i!.

los tien morrertes,

i lin categornes le sonry de

hermes gul comententa prestur

limasemend i de amoras de guérillia

armino de sedados

induthe messetilo:

-Aller tair, cones cranys: 1.

lo casteme impérialiado, Jonir outs,

P'usiste de Ming Howowin

reves decidents dudo boe mm est evidento poste es Turrenullo

Inceralon, dey compy de fea, deo dir

lada el dos morls. Desd Golind iso Meine Viore le Monte donar tore

y auro d'andres incliente de so air dles pour s arriver.

---

## Page 135

13-00000. r

19 SEP 1968

L SUBJECT: Stokely CARMICHAEL

1.

Attached is a copy of an article appearing in

the 9-15 May 1968 issue of Clarte, weekly newspaper of

the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published

in the 1 May issue of Humanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

Also contained in the clipping is a report of an

interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the

¿assassination of Dr. Martin Luther KING. CARMICHAEL waS

in Havans, Cuba, at

che time.

FLEASE TRANSIT REPLE VIA LIAISOR,

Based on Clarte, Belgian Comnunist Party (Marxist-leninist),

9-15 May 1968

Enclosure:

as stated (one)

Orasse

^ APPROVED FOR RELEASE

---

## Page 136

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Opponel)

FROM:

CI/Ober

TO: (Often designation, room number, and

building)

1.

3.

...

6.

8.

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

CA* 610 STARENOS LY SECRET

CONF" ENTIAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

Threats toy

5847

OFFICER'S

INTIALS

NO.

B-173

DATE

19 Sept 1968

MMENTS (Numbor noch.comment do stren from wh

tai wahom.

›a a lino ocross columns after each comme

EVES OMLY, cuse Internal Use that

Originated by:CIOP/DO:

(19 Sept 68)

Based

On.

Clarte, Belgian

Communist

Party

(Marxist-Leninist)

9-15 May 1968

Disseninated to:

•FBI: on

1aa Sept 68

297481978

WARNING NOTICE

This document contains information exempted from un-

authorized diastesung boy the

Freedom bf Information

Act andior the Privacy Act 15 USC 552g; 5 USC 552a (a)l

I CONFIDENTIAL [

File. B-Vemos (record copy)

PROB bRUSSEl.

CC:

ARMICHAEL

Stokely.

(soft) (w/enc)

cc: EVES INLY

B-175

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 137

13-00000;

SEGRET

NO FOREIGN BISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAS

19 SEP 1968

SUBJECT: Stokely CARMICHAEL

Attached is a copy of an article appearing in

the 9-15 May 1968 issue of Clarte, weekly newspaper of

the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published

in the 1 May issue of Humanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

French Communist Party

(Marxist-Leninist). The interview

was conducted when CARMICHAEL was in Paris, France.

Also contained in the clipping is a report of an

interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the

" assassination of

Dr. Martin Luther KING.

CARMICHAEL waS

in lavana, Cuba, at the tine.

PLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY VIA LUASON, MR. S. 1. PAPICH .

Based on Clarte,

Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),

9-15 May 1968

Enclosure: as stated (one)lled in Carsichael seus, sofit

Declassified y

date -2

60595

281278

SEGRET

NO FORDION CISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

GLASSIFICATION SEVIEW

CONUCED C38741278

55

LAPDET CL 5Y 06023

Ghout 1

Enemies ia1

---

## Page 138

13-00000

Le peuple soviétique

est

fidèle & STALINE!

DICH-GUE LA DIRECTION DU PROTI ET DE L'ETAT

¡SOVIETIQUES SOIT A PRECENT UGURPCE PAN DES

MEVISIONIOTES, JE CONCEILLE AUX CAMARADEO

D'AVOIR LA CONVICTION CUE LES LARGES MAS-

SES DU. PEUPLE SOVIENQUE, CES MENONES DU

PARTI ET DES CADRES SOIT CONG ET VEULENT

FAIRE LA REVOLUTION; LA DOMINATON DU FI-

VICIONIOME NE SERA PAS LONGUE.

MAO TSL-ТСУМС.

Fondataur : Honoré WILLEMS, fusillé per les nozis, le 29 février 1944.

MÁDACТO9

MOTARICH

3e, chausses d'Abomborg,

BRUXELLES 6

Tól. (03) 37.70.00

ORGANE CENTRAL DU PANTI CONMUMISTE

(MARXISTE-LÉNINISTE), DE DÉICIOUE

HEDDOMADAINC

NOUVELE SER - MONOTE 20

Comina Co D au 15 mel 1023

$.0a2s3 - 5 Frenes

(Tarit d'abennemonis : pages 3)

---

## Page 139

13-00000

0. CLIVE - 5

Sieckoly GARNICHAGL

Notre objects Morl:

Nous attaquer au

structures capitalstes

des U.S.A

Dans con numáro da Premor Mal, Va BumanitNouvelie », organs contral du Parti

Connuniste Mariate-Léninisto da Franco a puli une Intervicw de Siockcly Carni-

chafi, londer du « Black Power» (Pouvoir Noir)Cette interviow'a Etó réalicée par un

camarade africain toro, du récent séjour de Canninnol à Paris.

Le Black Power cot un mouvoinent die masco de Afro-américains. Certaines de ces

positions peuvent ne pas toujours coïncider aveccolles des mariticles-léninistes mais

: Il est évident que le combat du Black Power est hroïque, courageucomont anti-raclote,

coli-iapérialisic.

C'est cole savi cot, insporient. C'cet pour celta dison que nous reproduicens ce re-

marguable document.

STOCKELY CARMICHEL : L'aspect principal de la situallon du

couple afro-américain ostcelul d'uno nouvelle forme de colonialismo

Intériour..ll engit d'une sltuation

prosque originalo qui impliquo

que notre lutle so lixe deux objectifs prinelpaux :

-Objectit numéro climiner l'oppression colonialo qui nous

R0. 429

latines sociite dt lordro

vise en tant que Noirs sur lo triplo plan écoromique, social ot po-

larse de Molenes Septalallito

obour numero 2. nous naquer aux structures", oniptalites,

cf Importallatos cins U.S.A.

lindo 1s.

---

## Page 140

13-00000

herperfisc

mangale de demouiro

fl1n

le non-votence des D'oppoled de tabis-

matino on reda, min jabon lesper-

lane dans li tullo des bangles - ce

ricain gul in prix conselener alin

tendo lis violonen révolationastro peut

Liomutiro.

Mails

l'imperintiste,

aux, nhols,

tre la discrédit mair le catites dettes sias

latinit-

maurent

Yur!

Plures 19-1000), Mate De mätrale

Eul dire reselladron, viles canal, de ile!

tenter,

Oi cati duns Tarió du ra-

co certes, a qu'ilon d'hal, la vois

dus du play en plis anderont. dins

to pays a ('ricoroints du 11-1.

Londres).

Quo dit crate vols, Do quallo iut-

to c'arit-1ª D'uno cimalo lutte rn-

tre deile rares eu de suckur close

d'autrement Importent?

ico marolotr-lendnistog

ot toug (en

progresdules dolvent-sle la soulcnir

al la fatro consrúlros.

Ixes répaavog apparnitront dam:2

coun do l'espaco quo Stokely Car-

mediel nous a fait réremmind ri

mo nous setuluan palille pore la pire.

WU+4+60-99-96

can. 819.10-1

= la problème du racisme

= la problèmo do. l'explollation.

J'ai indiqué

plus haut que l'objeclif 12 élait une couvie d'cnsen-

bio; simploment parce qu'il

visait is résoudre un problènio qui

n'est pas particulior aux Noirs: le problème do l'exploitation de

l'honne par lliomme, Il n'est pas nécessairement lié à la couleur

Quant au probiémo du racieme, on peut dire qu'il est spécilique

à l'homme noir. On pout même poser l'équation ivanto : Noir =

Prolétariat du monde. A cause de on scule pc:

L'Ocuident Blanc ne noui ons nicr s cuc c

du Noir. Pronoz les Antilles irncaises, hollant

iomo cauco. Pince les Elais-Unis dus sioci

les Elais-Unis d'aujourd'hui, Prenez l'Afrique.

histoire est cio-

suonle à co sulct.

Los Blanes do l'Occident trouvent lour tur

le d'occidental

dans la négation 'du Noir on lant que Noir. Ils o

jeu Noir un cire

sub-humain pour rationaiser l'exploilation du

Indir. Pour nio pas

s'hunilier en lant qu'hoines.

- Oui, bion súr, il y a la «Code Noir» de Colbert. Mals lout do

môme, colle exploitation du loir ne pout pas dire cimpicment un

fait de psychologio appliquéo, car. en fall, le racismic apparait bion

comme une manifestation de la lulle des classos, ll n'y a qu'à re

prendre los exemples.

STOCKELY. -- D'abord, il y a un problèmo Immédiat : eclui de la

conscienco do la victime en laco. du bourreau. C'est en

lant que Noirs quo nove entendons nous ballre.

Il resto qu'aux Etais-Unis, un Noir « bion placé » sur le plan éco-

nomique n'échappe pas au racisme.

Il n'cal que do lire la presse américaine pour s'en convaincre. Le

probiomo du racisme ici n'est pas nécessairement lié au problème

• Le racisme falt partie de l'arsenal idéologique et pratique de l'im-

périalisine américain. Les Noirs sont d'autant plus exposés que los

Blancs occidentaux ont détruit les cultures africaines de l'homme

noir, los Noirs, dans. le monde, parient la langue de lours maltros.

Or. la culture comme dit Fanon, est. une " force cohúsive»: Il

icur faut donc aussi résister à cette culture d'imposilion (le pidgin,

le petit-nagro 7).

Dans la endro des Miro-américalns cela transparait sous la tor-

mo du christlanisme. Le christianisie est une culture d'imposition,

c'ool-i-diro cocentiollument une culture Impérlaliste, parco quo liée

tidéo de la valeur universalle du maitre.

Vous dévez en savoir

quelque chose en Arique, avoc le corloge, de conversions forcéos.

- De quel ordio coronai

- Ello cat nécrocaireiiant politigin.

- L'une des limites obiennes dus dirigeants qui nous ont prise

dés est la suivante : il ont lui appil dux opprocadora ce don dux

opprimés. Nous, nous faison, appel aux opprimds. Nous lour di-

•Si vous voulez être libres,

il faut vous battre l» La président

Mao Tsé-toung indique avec maison quo « la pouvoir est au bout du

furil ». C'est juste. Nous aproserona nos fusils libéraicura aux fusils

racistes de l'impérialisme amiricain, dans seo propres villos

Nous le forcorons à te batre coinme rous l'ontendrons. Comme

font nos camarades vicinamiens. B'il veut utilicer du napalm ci des

rockels sur cos propros villes, nous n'y voyons pas d'inconvénienis,

mais nous nous baltrons, d'uel unc

- Vois-lu un rappori calie votro luile et cellco

victnamiona, ot des auirco peuples en late contre laguialione,

U.S. cn löte ?

Dion évidemment,

chaque fois gro les booer de

sont minées à l'extériour, notro lulle

son irouve propertionnoliu-

moni avantagéo.

Nous voudrlons bien par exomplo qu'il se trouve un soul pays

arrienin qui co dúveloppo par ces propres ciforts, et non en allant.

mendier chez les Blancs occrtchlaux.

Nous on nurions fait, pour la mobiliantion de nos maarco fonda-

mentales un modèle paychogique et methodique d la lois. Mais

on no pout pas dire qu'il y ait un cout pays révolutionnairo en Afri-

que à l'houre actuelle. C'est d'ailleurs pour cola que l'O.U.A. est

paralycée. Aujourd'hui, si des Noirs amériorins avaient à s'exiler en

Afrique, pas un soul pays alcain ne los accopicrait pour la bonno

raison. que lous cos pays sont soumis au joug de l'impérialiamo

:Toutes les politos bourgeoisios contre-révolutionnaires au pou

voir en Afrique sont intéodies à Johnson, el exploitent lour pro-

pres frères de coulcur.

• Quelle est votre fúche princinalo en ce moment. Colle qui ra-

quiert actuellemont la priorité.?

D'abord; éliminor nos encais, c'est-à-dire lous les mouvemenis

contro-révolutionnaires voulant s'intégrer à la

socióté capitalisto

blanche.

Ensuito, organiser notre peuple pour qu'il nequierre le mordant ol-

fensif, condition sine qua non pour briser la statut quo d'aujourd'hui.

Car c'ost bien cola que signific la lulte défensive des Luther King

et autres.

Pour valnore, il s'agit d'allaguer. C'est un programme minimum.

Interview téléphonique à Radio-Lo Havane

Déclaration de Comminl..*l à 1.

---

## Page 141

13-00000

lau à des percentre crane elles

Audi de may date ratara des tie concerar.

1!.is.

sinoly parle de reguasillo

Cli? 191949.

Mine. Gros simile, 1l

la bae dne de tenage de mes podomer:

sune tarose surpris nu mut du il.

Le solide, mot nvode panió le notrée

est-cirito.

Lort,

cing concrades: note partena tris

libersant.

caulorils de le traduction. Les elle

TELAIBA.

Tolubir of a perpoter la societ capitanero.

- Pratiquement, comment lout cela peutill d'agencer?

En organicant les Noire: Mictoriguemont, nous venons lous d'Atri-

qu0. Ton nous danperant dand leur monde, los Manen occidentaux

nous oisi apprio, par la nérative cotes, mais nous ont applis quand

mêmo à apprécier Punité. Nous davont aujourdhui, que l'unito, c'est

In pronaco. Oest pour realear cot ingératif dunio que nous a-

vone avréo, dane un promier temps, de nous rendeer culturellement,

en rejetant lo chriotionieme (culture damasition, lióo à l'idéo do su-

piématio do la cullino des Blancs occidentaux).

•- Le problemo à récondro est eclui de créer des révolutionnaires

nuiro. Pour nous, cola. signilio 3 objeclilo :

1. Adoplion d'une langue nationie africaino : le swahille par

схотріс:

2.

Destruction du christianisme.

3. Redécouvrir l'Afriquo, inis

d'une manlere scienlifique, pour y

puiser ros propres hisos, nu lieu d'anonner les héros blancs

occidentaux.

En somme, recréor notre culture pour en laire une force do coló-

sion.

Dégager uno idéologie polilique commune. A cot égard l'expérion-

co de In Révolution chinoise est riche d'exemples mobilisalcurs.

Notro licho à nous est de luller pour acquérir une isenlogie cor-

recle, capablo d'unilior tous les Noirs.

•La choso fondamentale a retenir, c'est de contribuer a

développer

conscienco qui

doit amenor l'Américain noir à résister. Celle

consclenco est nécessalro.

de l'assassinar de Manin Tuthor lung

La quorre du guérilla

dons les villos

merd-annerlane malatlante mon puerre de prédile desd dos sillos

Bront en prison of liler to in

Maclr.160d

Meurtin

Anther lois:

ond commis une trave errear oreil

ile.

a poir doraler den ville dis;.

melero duces du Moliere, di.

dirogrand node nes prenne dires

tord de drood dend ségosse alléguero

Fresey des so puse brides le dibee do pud Passacabrag de Cine male destina

riges à fond dans le disulod

- Aller sols, enum courig t

cule de parge de de sartler so temm

le salime impérialicles Jour mets,

le décrasalés des die dissoles dles des sigalé

incondien, den cunp de toli, deo ce.

Ite es doy morts dl est doldent en pointe visre. le bous donneres mere

y mur dentre Inckdente de soc.ee tle pour go arriver,

---

## Page 142

13-00000đ

JERIS

---

## Page 143

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

334

abg-15 contains mEmo

B-191

dated 9 Det. 1968

11 Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)|

DI ESCA

Segregable portions previously relcased;

excised portions exempted

under

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

Referred to DO for review by

rther description, identification, conments, and/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s) (6)(U(413) of F0/A

( ) ADD exemption (s)

Sustain initial volcase of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption'(s)

(• ) DROP exemption (s)

Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

Deny docunent in tuto under exemption (s) -

of

Releaso a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

exemptions clted shove are being clained to protect the following:

Information fron i foreign liaison service

• Informatlon pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Intormation ilich vould/em identify the source

In Formation portaining to a source

Informatlon pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

Location

of unachnowledged domestic installation

Names of CIA employees

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal orgunizational data.

*Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individuals

OTHER

MENTS and/or. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

ing the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified to

declassified

desunsitired

downgraded

1:2

INPDET

C.I.

BY 012170

T1 1OD5

---

## Page 144

13-00000

1• UNO.ISSIFIED

F" ITERNAL

USE ONLY

[l / "FIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

WEIECE Onl

1044:

D: ¡Dicer desigronor, roose number, aral

DATE

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWADDED

NO.

B-191

DATE

9 October 1968

COMMENTS (Numboe each commont lo show from whore

so bard Laybay

Drove a line across column offas each comment.)

112S SHL

Originated by: WH/7/R/PR01son

(8 October 68)

Based on:

HJK-251

2.. para

405

"b.

para 406

c. • para 411

d.

para 413

€.

para 4174

f.:

para 420:

Disseminated to:

•FBI on

• 1U oct 68

410 PeR FO SECRET

TY CONFIDENTINI

Filst

B-MeRos

(record copy)

CC:

CC:

100-500-44

PROD

TROD

EVES ONLY

8-191

INTERNAL

17WNMA5515EN

---

## Page 145

13-00000

9 G07 1269

GEGHORANDUZA

SUBJECT:

jamalca/inited States Black Power Fios

The stone of possible interest, omitted from the

dissentration, aro soted beloy:

Punag Loel 1069, four neetings of the lilson

-faction of tha Mation of Islam (NOI)

tors bels.

1:3 April, Darcy Hagles, the boxer,

said that ie

Lapressed to the doctrine and had vritten

ohamed mistag for a scholarship to chable iim to

siudy in on of the islan Univergities in the United

"States. Errol lavy said tiat only a ravolation could

end the shite nan's practice of rodoing the black

ceople of everything.

At tbe meting on 24 Ayril, Cecil (Prince

Buster) Campbell stated that the premises

Street in Kingsion belonged to hin and he vas villlag

for it to bo used for the assistance of the binck ince.

re called for unity among black people and said that

organization sas fighting to mie jamaica.

told nenbers that thay snould be prepared to nest ibe

"Reverend Sherifts (axa. Thomas View) pho would soon ba

visiting the Islaod.

On the Sth and 6th of April;

discussiong vers

--hold led by Ceorge Vassel, leader of tha Young Socialist

FULL TEXI COPK -- OR MUT RELEASE

CLASSIFICATICM REVIED

COND TEa ON 38 1928

---

## Page 146

#00000

- 2 nara

League and a bomber of tbe Jarsican (Caribbena)

Forkers lovenent,

on the posalbiiity of holding

demonstrations nt the American Enbassy in Kineston

lo protest agaiust the assasinaiion of Dr. Martin

Vassel Clained that there rag a United

Stotes citizen alding 1a janaica to escape the drait

no had la bis possession racordings of speeches

made

3y tha lota lalcoln i during 1939.

ontitlod "The Ballot or Bullets", He stated that King's

death disproved his theory of not violence and vas

beloglag lato prostoence nen 1119 Btorely Carnichael

and H. Rap Brown.

rl.

During Aortl, about

40 persons including

Tinaton llonroe, foseph Christie,

Roy Joffrey, Leonard

Soloon and one fy Survad, wao is the Anerican dralt

escapee referred to ln Paragraph c. abovo, net at

23 Inuth Street, Trench Town (Dallas Corner), Wherg

Suryad,

identified as a Blacks Muslin abd & nember of

the Blach Power Wovenent (BPM), an ared questione put

to hin by the gathering.

It was wierstood that Surind

222m

to solicit support for the BPM In the

indted States as vell as to establtsh a braach here.

the record

"The Ballot or Bullets" was played by

Survad und recorded by lonre.

formation of a group in Jamaica.

BENE

Sumad accepted Georgo Hyeny® invitation to

attend a get togather which be 12s aragzing in Savana

Ianiar on 11 1á7, and to spend a veer or too with his

thers,. They discussed the Congress of Racial Equality

•(CORS) and tho SPY, 200 1t vag Suggested that & 10ca1

: Steering Connittee should be appointed to consider the

Survad tes subse

quentiy been identified 2s ions lavis, ala Selvya Grey,

a member pi CoRs and the 31ack Justing,

le Is in Louch

vity instatariane at lintyrs, and the leaders of the

viking and Spade Cange..

Fe is especting to meet one

¿Corporal Jnnes, tica

"sTims" of the Javalca Defence

Force, tho is said to have complained that he vas

deprived oi propotion because of his views.

Arrange

roots vers a130 boing made for hin to neet

Raltes Rodney

of the University of the West indles.

Suryad has stated

---

## Page 147

13-00.000

Shat 12 given the chence he would, vitbia eizuceen

months,

stage n demonstration.

he has suggested that

18 his colleagues can supply

marijuana dad

find a vay

to export it,

be

could aurantee an outlet in the

United Staies and the noney thus obtrined could be

ised to Linanco tha local lovenent.

Survad vas boing

-supparted by

his glolfriend, Bornadine liorszon, Tho

was

expected to arrive from the United States towarde

the and of the ensuing month.

lle is now in straitened

clicunatancer,)

WH//R/

Distribution:

021-931

w/att

• CI/OPS/D

1 - HH/T/B/JATS

C/w8/7/JA73

(8 October 1968)

Based on:

AJK-251

D. ∞ para 405

para 406

C..

naza 411

para 413

para

417

para 420

---

## Page 148

13-00000

TAB #235

NoT

INCLUDEN

---

## Page 149

3,00000

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

336

Tab 72-

Two Lettu chicops

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

dated Sept 121196,7

of

(.) Segregable portions previously released;

excised portions exempted

under

of

X) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND:

( )

Sustain

initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

0f

( ) ADD exemption(s)

( ) DROP exemption(s)..

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

(.)

ADD exemption(s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

Of Deny document in toto under exemption (s) (026)

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

The exemptions citéd above

are being clained to protect

the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Infornation pertaining to a source

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Locacion

of acknowledged domestic installation

Name®

Of CIA

employee

File number

Pseudonyn

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

( ) OTHER

maintained

classitied

to

doclassified

desensitized

downgraded to

1A UNCLISDIFIED.

•C CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY

012170

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 150

13-00000

AFTERS DAYS RETURNTO!

BERNICE MOBINSON

22 DEWEY ST

CHARLESTON SC 29403

- TPAi AVIS

VIA AIR N

Miss. Martin Wither King for.

230 Sunset sue NiW.

Atlanta, Heargia

H. B. A.

---

## Page 151

13-00000

Heren:

Dauer 9i. Fing:

Erfice on Ihres Gast Eusspiani Check-

seizza Strader Liver, I stuted a little trion

in. East Hermany, Called Wernket?

The Meravian. Church (Oldert issi.

Herte office, st es geset

dering

sur trat there. I sow your?

hushands isst on sile in their

one good Bistectors.

sienthe. soit in Hessbat, ingesined in

That they are Nettin lip a thorse

en the spasith leiter, en ring o

Д. King!

He warted yous adonese

so that he could misite and bet you

The reopart they have for Dre king

Merang, I gave"

I am soriting to tet aus Rision that,

spet, you ne he reciving Ge

tions fran, Dietrichs Weis

89 Goslits D.Д.R.,.

Bautzenes fts, 38.,

and nous wite hs aimare of what is

de to this Anale Cases

Hermanif

"Jozise, a population o and

2,06e.

Kespest fuite:

22 Dewey Striet

Chartiatse, 2. C. 29463

---

## Page 152

13-00000

to ran.

Куда .

Pers lure to li

VA-62

Sept 17,1969

Matiwest Afarita

Кому.

Peoria, 50314

U SA

Apec opum Licew AЗА

Rica,

lers lartin setter.

234 Sunset Ove

Worth west itlaut

Додіа і 30314 !

Dean wies Kina

three wers ags set the boin

You so kindly sint me and inmedially

auswered you.

Duly today us waites

and a halot, - came youn

letter with

a reprict of

Tartich In case

Bly lizst letter will not reich you

perinal me to repeat - it uas ou

hoe you.

resousability - to get a letter

learns Lter King Lemonal very,

payelar

Рідня2,

Malitie for chil zr

pestistes!

C1.

BiRe

Fer then

King way one 9

39525 B

---

## Page 153

13-00000.

New

work full and lees tiü Perther Kire

EacH

tup to the caud of

Lind hi.

Rous to beers

get some articles on

the

Hers lo

Price, - how it wa..).

veter

road

shee at

l4 in he pleases.

learti,

I hope it will

published al last alich it will

the possibitty to send it to

If somebody in your country

will plau

inberrational sere faste

51.2.

Jestin

Be lege and so if tito.

King, Please, bet le

woeld? ве жу

cleepest wish to contribeche;

I hage you

will vot consider this,

wish.

immodest, - it i very. serisus, Foug,

if than o

I course, I could not

be the indige

for your

le then:

Yours. 19r4

sincerely

Raissa

Ozkora

---

## Page 154

13-00000•

---

## Page 155

13-00000

I UNCLASSIFIED

I CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

TOP

SECRET

337

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

Tab,

5 contains Call

I. () Previously denied in toto undeferation s

( segregable portioneriously arease te

dated l9may

1272.

311001226

(.) Located during the DDO appeals review.

• ( ) Referred to DDO for review by

Furtlci description, identification, corments, and/or referials, etc.

4. I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

1 ADD exemption (s)

0f

() Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

of

ADD exemption (s)

DROP exemption(s)

( ) Release additional information

with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny document in toto under

exemption (s)

sanitized version with

excised portions exempted under

(6)(01(4)(3)

F0IA

of

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

to a foreign

liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

Of CIA overseas

installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal

organizational data

Name

of FBI

agent,

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6.

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

1wiG ThE 000

sEeped classification review, this document which was

maintained

classified

declassified

desensitized

downgraded to

confidential

UNCLASSIFTEY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

B? MODET

CT. BY 012770

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 156

13-00000

19 14 1326471

1915AEZ MAY TI CITE

FEAD QUARIER 5

MACHAOS

REF: HEADQUARTERS/

IO IN FINAL COVERAGE OR 18 MAY OF WPE, WHICH ENDED 16 MAY,

FRESS HAS MADE FOLLOMINE ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS RE US.

PARTICIPANIS:

A. SIDNEY PECK, DEMIFIED. AS "USA PROFESSOR,*

SPOIG AT COMBRESS ON VIEI RAM WAR

BE UPC HAS AMARDED JOL IDI CRIE GOLD MEDICH

ST HUMOUSLY

TO REY MARTIN LUTHER KING. PEDAL ACCEPTED BY REV RALPH

ABERNATHY AND REVNOW AL RER AN AMERICANZTEACE FIGHTER."

PHOTOGRAPN (POUCHED) OF PRESENTATION ALSO PICTIRES DES. DELEGATES

WILLIAMS OURTHARD AS MS ADDIN YALI.

Go laS, DELEGATES PLINO AGE - COLE YANO SYLVIA

FLECHER ISIO SPOKE AI MEETING OF INDOCHINESE ANO

AMERICAN

Smite DELEGATE SO

AMERICANS HERBERT A PT HE KER AND CAPLION G

OODWELT

REELECTED TO FRESDENIIAL SOARD.

2 .

POUCHING

NOST SIGNIFICANT PRESS COVERAGE OF

COUNCIL SESSIONS

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 10 Macual 19:78

54.

---

## Page 157

13-00000

19 14 13219871

19134BZ MAY 71 CITE

FEAD QUARTERS

•CHAOS

• REF: HEADQUARTERS!

I. IB FINAL COVSRAGE ON 18 MAY OF WPE, WHICH ENDED 16 MAY,

LOCAL PRESS HAS MADE FOLLOWINE ADDITIONAL OBSERVAIIONS RE WAS+

PARTICIPANIS:

A.

SINEY PE C KE DEMIFIED AS "USA PROFESSOR,"

SPOKE AT CONGRESS ON. VIET RAM WAR+

BO WPC HAS AUDEDED IO IOT CUTIE GOLD MEDERI

STHUNOUSLY

IO REV MARIIN LUTHER KING. MEDAL ACCEPTED BY REV RALPH.

ABERHAT AS AND REVE. MAL HER AN AMERICAN PEACE FIGHTES."

PHOTOGRAPH (POUCHED) OF PRESEUTATION ALSO PICTIRES UCS. DELEGATES

HILLIAMDOURTHARD

IRSO ADDIE N YAII.

Go BaSe DELEGATES RUTH GAGE-COLBYMD SA.VIA

KUS CHER (SIC) SPOKE AI MEETING OF ERDOCHINESE AND

AMERICAN

D. ANERICANS HERBERT A PINE HER AND CARLTON

GOODI

REELECTED TO FRESDENIIAL BOARD.

POUCHING MOST SIGMIFICANT FRESS COVERAGE OF

COUNCIL SESSIONS-

A ARCHONED FOR MCLEASE

Dille

---

## Page 158

13-00000

1y Pr.1a20a71

SE CRET I91JAOL NAY TI CITE

017

READ QUARTERS

RYBAT MHCLRB MACHAOS

REF: HEAD QUARTERS 2789

1.. IN FINAL COVERAGE ON 18 NAY OF WPC, WHICH ENDED 16 MAY,

LOCAL. FRESS HAS MADE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS RE U.S.

PARTICIPANIS=

A. SIDNEY PE CK, IDENTIFIED AS "USA PROFESSOR,"

SPOKE AT CONGRESS ON VIET NAM WAR.

BO UPC HAS ANARDED JOLIDI CURIE GOLD MEDIESE SIHUMOUSLY

TO REV MARTIN LUTHER KING. MEDAL ACCEPTED BY REV RALPH

ABERMATHY AND REVW-WAL KER "AN AMERICANMEACE FIGNTER."

PHOIOGRAPH (POUCHED) OF FRESENTATION ALSO PICIIRES U.S, DELEGATES

WILLIAMD OURIHARD

ERS. ADDIE " YAT I.

Eo U.S. DELEGATES RUTH G AGENC OLS Y AND SYLVIA

HUSCHER (SIC) SPOKE AI NEGTING OF INDOCHINESE AND

9n: 86/2119

DO APERICANS HERBERI A PIME KER AND CARLIONE OODLEIS

REELECTED TO FRESIDENTIAL BOARD •

2a STATION POUCHING MOST SIGNIFICANT PRESS COVERAGE OF

COUNCIL SESSIONS*

GPa!

POLA TEXT CUMY - D0 NOT RELEASE

AA0JE1L

: 28.7461978.

118/72/

2214106051

CONFOSATIS

DENTAL

2by biathority or

060523

---

## Page 159

13-00000

1-8

---

## Page 160

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED.

. CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

TOP SECRET

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

338

1. Tab

85 contains

79-2628

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

dated 21 may?

segregabie portions previousty

released;

excised portions exempted

under (6)(11141(2) /413/14152

0F F012

() Located during the DDO appeals review.

() Referred to DDO for review by

3.. Further description, identification, comments, 'and/or referrals, etc.

4.

5.

I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

ADD exemption (s)

of

(3 DROP exemption (s)

()

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ADD exemption(s)

(3 DROP exemption (s)

additional information

with excised portions exempted under

(0) 111613)

FOLA

() Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

D Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

The exemptions cited

above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information fron a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged. domestic installation

of CIA employee

File numbers

Pseudonym

CryptonymS

Internal organizational data

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individuall

1.7

mintained

classitied

to

declassified

lesensitized

dongraded to confidential

in this pront

conta titl

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012170

PA CONFIDENTTA .

LICEROET

---

## Page 161

13-00000

B- 2628

21 MAY 1977

SUBJECT:

Americans Attending

the World Peace Council (WPC)

Conference in Budapest, Hungary, 13-16

May 1971

I. A reliable source has reported that the following

Mericans

spoke at the indicated committee meetings of the

HPC Conference:

A. Stanley FAULCER, Committee on

European Peace

.and Security;

B. Sylvia XUSINER, Committee on Indochina Aggression;

C.

John GIllial, Connittee on the Near East;

D. Mary Angle DickersOn, Section Meeting Discussing

Discrimination:

E. LuiS GARZA,

Section Meeting Discussing Dis-

crinination; and

F. Ruth GAGE-COLB%, Conmittee on Disarmament-

All of the above-named peisons vere identified specifically

as nembers of the U.S. delegation.

Z.

According to the same source, S. FAULKYER,

President of the American National Lawyers'. Association,

functioned as President in a meeting of lawyer delegates

to the Congress and the American delegate Albert KAHN

cranslated a message fron the widow of artist Rockwell

KENT to the Conference.

sace, which ended 16 Nay, the Hungarian Press made

final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Confer-

following additional observations regarding United States

parricipants:

A. Sidney PECk, identified as "USA Professor,"

spoke on the

war in Vietnam;

PHOVED FOR RELEASE

ie 10 Men? 8

---

## Page 162

13-00000

4:

B.

The KPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL

posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther

KING.

The medal was accepted by the Reverend

Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T.

WALKER,

"an American peace fighter." A photo-

graph

of the presentation ceremony also

included

Willian DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U.S.

delegates to the Conference;

C.

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER. spoke at a

meeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

D:

Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Cariton GOODLETT

were re-elected

to the Presidential Board of

the WPC-

For previous information on Subject, please refer

-dated 14 May 1971.

Subject:

and

Please bansuit reply via

charmed

Originated by

Based on.

a.18 May 71

Source:

Say FEL

Hungarian Press

Distribution:

Original

-FBI (Mr. Wannall) via

1. - В тето

chrono

extra copy

courier

KING/ Sen

1202760906

routiction

Production

---

## Page 163

13-00000

B- 2628

21 MAY 1971

SUBJECT: Americans Attending the World Peace Council (WPC)

Conference, in budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May 1971

the following

Americans spoke at the indicated committee meetings of the

WPC Conference:

A.

F

3..

In

its final coverage on 18 May of the

WPC Confer

ence, which ended l6 May, the lungarian Press made the

following additional observations regarding United States

participants:

A.

Sidney PECK, identified as "USA Professor,"

spoke on the war in Vietnam;

Precisial

A APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date

19 AUG 1976

---

## Page 164

13-00000

B.

The WPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL

posthumously to the

Reverend Martin Luther

KING.

The medal was accepted by the Reverend

Ralph ABERYATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T.

VALKER,

"an American peace fighter."

A photo

graph of the presentation ceremony also included

William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYNTT as U.S.

delegates to the Conference:

C.

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER spoke at a meeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

D.

Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Cariton GOODLETT

were re-elected to the Presidential Board of

the WPC.

4

Please transn't reply

Originated by:

•Based on:

Source:

Distribution:

Original - FBI

1

via

courier

1

---

## Page 165

13-00000

GONE IDENHAL

NO FORDEA DISSEMINO DISSEL SAKUAL

SUBJECT:

B- 2628

21 HAY 1971

Americans Attending the World Peace Council (WPC)

Conference in Budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May, 1971

1. A reliable source has reported that the following

Americans spoke at the indicated conmittee meetings of the

WPC Conference:

A.

Stanley FAULINER, Conmittee on European Peace,

and Security;

B. Sylvia KUSHNER, Conmittee on Indochina Aggression;

C.. John GILMAN, Committee on the Near East;

D. Mary Angie DICKERSON, Section Meeting Discussing

Discrimination;

E-LUXS GARLA, Section Meeting Discussing Dis

crimination;

and

F: : Ruch GAGE-COLBY, Committee on Disarmament.

All of the above-named persons were identified specifically

as members of the U.S. delegation.

According to the same source, S. FAULKNER, "Vice

President of the American National Lawyers' Association,"

functiquedras President in a meeting of lawyer delegates

to the Congress and the American delegate: Albert KAHN

translated a message from the widow of artist Rockwell

KENT to the Conference."

In its final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Confer:

ence, which ended 16 May, the Hungarian Press made the

following additional observations regarding United States

participants:

A.

Sidney PECK, identified as "USA Professor,"

spoke on the war in Vietnam;

CLASSIAIGATION REVIEW

PONSIDE TA

SCONCUCTED CH / Sept 78

O UDET CL BY 0.60520

Downgraded to

360575

by authority

dato: -

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT. RELEASE

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEL ABROAD

GABLE T

03RI26A8 1A

---

## Page 166

13-00000

PETITIO

NO. FORDEN DISSEMIMO DISSELL ABROAD.

B.

The WPC

awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL

posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther

The medal was accepted by the Reverend

Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T.

TALKER,

"an American peace fighter."

A photo-

graph of the presentation ceremony also included

William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U.S.

delegates to the Conference;

C.

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER spoke at a meeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

D. Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Carlton GOODLETT

were re-elected to the Presidential Board of

the WPG.

For previous information on Subject, please refer

to our teletype 3216, dated 14 May 1971,

Subject:

Ralph

David ABERNATHY and Dr. Carlton GOODLETT:

Please transmit roply via: CACTUS chanel

Originated by:

CI/SO:

Based on:

01б,

18 May

• 71

(WPC/Sens/BW) and

19 May . 71 (WPC/Sens/BW)

Source:

JKLANCE/Hungarian Press

Distribution:

Original - FBI (Mr. Wannall) via CI/SO courier

1

- B memo chrono

1.- extra copy

- WPC/Sens./ BIV

• FAULKNER/-Sens/GMK (201-354414/GK)

1

- KUSHNER/ Sens/BW (201-878516/BW)

- GILMAN/ Sens/BW (new)

- DICKERSON/Sens/BW (201-854982/BW)

1

- GARZA/Sens/BW (new)

- COLBY/Sens/GNK (201-053968/GK)

.- КАНМ/Sens/EC

- KENT, Mrs. / Sens/GK (201-221724/GK)

- PECK/Sens/BW (201-830466/BW)

KING/Sens/JD (201-760966/JD)

1

1

- ABERNATHY/ Sens/JD. (201-853022/JD)

- WALKER/Sens/JD:

1

1

1

1

1

- DOUTHARD/Sens/BW (201-857634/BW)

- WYATT/Sens/ Biv

• APTHEKER/Sens/ BW

(201-757176/BN)

- GOODLETT/Sens/BN (201-742726/BW)

- Production Budapest

- Production JKLANGE

- NO FOREIGN DISSEMIND DISSEM ABROAD

CONMIDENTI

017

---

