# 104-10188-10049

## Page 1

104-10188-10049

DISPATCH

Chlor, Western Heulaphere Diveion

ERCIRSSING ACTION

BRATTIO TCB IAOFEING

NO 1891I8G REQUIRED

DOLT QUALITIO DESA

CAN A PiE IRDERIN

10

INTO

far ESH 49-43

FACHE

Calef of Station, Naxico CIty.

SUBACI

Roquest for Renewal of LIENVOY Project

ACPION HE QUIRED RIERENES

Referance: MNAWi-12107 dated 19 November 1963

Attachod 18 the LENVOY Project Renewal for the pertod

I Fabruary 1964 through 31 January 1965.

End of Diapatch

Sans Cosio

c. CUkri

Enclotures:

Loft hand aide h/u

Right hand side u,8.G.

Distributions

_ 3 - C/WHD w/enclosures (5 copter)

ROROVel prOs ProjOct KARINGER

55 on; 66 6 291.

80%32% Fold: 2

CROSS REFERETICE TO

TENSPATCH SIVE AND SLIMBER

HAMA-22679

SECRET Fronto.

DATE

31 Docember 1963

MES ME MAES

150-6-7511

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1:

SECRET

21 January 1964

MEMORANDU FOR:

Deputy Director of Plans

SUBJECT

' : Request for Renewal of the LIENVOY Project

The LIENVOY Project is submitted for renewal for the perlod

1 February 1964 through

31 January 1965,

for & total of $47,068;

320,530 for FY 1964 and $26,538 for FY 1965.

No additional funds

amendment submitted in June 1963

are required for FY 1961; howcverfor $23,000 will not be ordered

as the equipment approved in an

during the remainder of the present Fiscal Year.

1. Obtectlves: The LIENVOY Project provides for a

telephone tap unit, and for

Iwhtch provides access to the

Agents: There have been no changes in agent personnel

the past

Arnold F. ARENART, Stall Agent, continues to da an outstanding

and none are proposed during the coming fear.

in managing the top center and

In keeping all technical equipment

in repair.

During the past year, Headquarters approved the

Station's plan

the LIENVOY intercept center for security

reasons, and to replace the older equipment with new and more

eguipment.

This move has been held in abeyance until this opera

tlon cin be discussed with LITENSOR's successor and a mutual

made about the future operntional pattern

LITENSOR's successor will not officially replace

premises has been tightened and it'

Meantime, , believed that LiTENSOR or

the security of the intercept

LIELEGANT could handle any problems which might arise.

CEORET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

-2.

Intelligence production:

Liesvor is one of the most

productive telephone tap projects in KUBARK

his project has been the source or was the sure de le

not disscminated.

LIES0Y-2

LIENVOY-2:

LIENVOY:

Connunist and leftist activity in Mexico

Communist publications

International

congressey

Mexican political activities

Communist and leftist porsonalities and

acttvities in Mexico

Travel

Cuban activities in Mexico and developments

Communist Chinese activities in Mexico

Effectiveness: In addition to the positive intelligence

production

thts Project is the source of valuable CE information

The Intercept center covers 30 lines. all

Communist and lettlst leader. Prensa Lattua, b'lines on the soviet

Embassy, 3 on the Cuban Embassy, 2 on the Crech Embassy, and since

September 1963 there have been 3 on the Yugoslav Embassy.

average of 525 recls per month, from which the

center nonitors prepare daily sumnaries of significant items

gleaned fros all the lines.

These daily resumes total between 100

to 150 pages per month.

The tap center sonitors prepare full

transcripts

for the Cuban, Yugoslav, and Soviet Fabassy

for the Soviet and Satellite coverage are given

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

→ 3 =

the Station for passage to Station assets who translate the

Soviet, Czech and Yugoslav portions.

• Yugoslav and Soviet Embassies

other useful CE data.

led to a successful recruitment in the

the past year.

Embassy during

Examples of some important non-disseminable information

obtained through LIENVOY during the past year are:

During May, through LIENVOY, the Station uncovered

a harrassment operation directed against

thu U.S. Embassy by the

use of forged routine forms to embarrnss the Embassy and known

anti-Comnunists,

Suveral contacts made by U.s. citizens with the

Criban and

Soviet Embassies, and with lexican Concunists wero

recorded.

This information is given special dissentnation

FBI for their action.

The most significant of these contacts was

that by Lee OSWALD with the Cuban and Sovlet Embassies

prior to the assassination of the late President MaNNEDY.

OSWALD's

contact was cabled to Headquarters on 8 October 1963 and

information was immediately disseminated to the appropriate ODYOKE

offices.

During August LIENVOY contributed support to the

REDWOOD ARJUMBO upcration by providing information on contacts

principals involved in this sensitive SR operation.

There have been no significant security, cover,

control, or Tialson problems during the past year.

This Project encompasses an unofficia

vIth hich-level

Tofflcials which

contributes

23 November

23 the retendly day add o the assassination of th

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

late President Kennedy, the Chief of Station alerted Mexican

selected LIENVOY coverage of the Cuban Embassy which

Concorned Lee OSWALD.

As a result they took immediato action

favorable to PBPRIME by making appropriate arrests, conducting

interrogations, rejecting a Cuban Embassy protest note, and

killing a Soviet propaganda effort to place the blame on minority

groups in PBPRIME.

In December 1963, a KUBARK oficial traveled to Mexico with &

visual presentation concerning the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela.

There

he gave a special briefing to LITENSOR, pointing out the

authenticity of the Cuban origin of these arms, and thus contrt-

buting significantly to a

-on

this important inter-American matter favorable to ODYOKE.

In connection with a

and West European countries in March and April 1963, the Station

was provided several briefing papers on these

countries, prepared

DY KUMONK and KUWOLE. L

was also provided l

KUBARK official

1n each West Buropean city so that he might

through KUBARK

channels if he so wished.

Inter-Agency Coordination: No formal inter-Agency co-

ordination

is required in this Project.

The Chief, PESHING, Mexico,

only ODYOKE representative in Mexico outside KUBARK who is

aware of this project and its provision for a

matters as the special briefing on the arms cache

in Venezuela were discussed in detail with him.

during the coming Project year.

probably be replaced by LITEMPO-2.

LITENPO-2 under the LITEMPO Project.

.ITEMPO-2 will continue the intercept program without change.

10. Funds:

Approval is requested for the renewal of the

"?.'

---

## Page 6

14-00000

-5.

LIENVOY Project for the period l February 1964 through 31 January

Recommendations: WI Division recommends renewal of thi

Project based upon the above memorandum and the attached fiel

request.

Alü Herbert

J. C. KIN

SE0R2T

---

## Page 7

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PROJECT LIENVOY RENEWAL

A. Current Ob lectives.

• The only major change

It 1s too earls

o deteraine hor this change will affect the operation of LIENVOY. The COl

loxico has been asrured that LIENVOY Wll remain in operation but LITENSOR want

1t to continue as l8 fur an as yet undetermined length of time. All major

objectives of the project are being effectively realized.

n the laat project reneva request.

center for security reasons.

indication from LITENSCR on how bis successor will feel about the future of

IIEVYO% and the manner he viahes it to operate. The securlty of the premises har

been tightened and it is belleved that LTTENSOR can handle any problems which

might arise.

Co Intelligence Production.

Each month an operational report la forwarded to Readquarters listing the

diepatches, cables, and intelligence reporte based on LINVOY production.

this request for renoval.

Do Effectivenesa.

The LIENVOY uroloct contimes to provide the same

E. Broblemg.

There have been no significant security, cover, control or llalso

roblems during the past year

---

## Page 8

SECRET

I. Llalson.

This project contributes to the friendly attitude of the Nestena Covera

ment officials.

Regarding the assasslnation of President Kennedy, Willard

urtla alerted Mexican officiale on 23 November to selected LIENVOY COverage

of the Cuban Embassy. As a result they took immediate action favorable to

BPRIME, they made arrests, conduoted interrogations, rejected the Cabar

imbassy protest note and killed the soviet propaganda effort to placa the blam

ma no no con

on minority groups in PBPRINE.

d. Interagency Coordination.

The Chief, PESWINO, Nexico, le the only ODYOKS representative in Marte

outaide KUBARK vho 1a aware of this project.

There is no coordination in thi

ragarde

H. Plane.

Puero will in no sigulficant oporational changes until LITENSOR 1o re

placod.

If thie occurs during the coning projoct jear, a project anandmen

will be subnitted.

I. Costa.

1. For the past period.

The cost of the project (paid by Mexico Station exclusive of

2. For the next prolect yess.

be spent from 1 July 1964 through 31 January 1965.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

. . =

E Si

SECRET

=3

3o Arent Salartes.

FY 6+

•LIENVOY-2

IIENVOY 4

LOENYOY-5

LIENVOY-6

LIENVOY-?

LIENVOY-L1

IIENVOY-12

LIENVOr-Ik

LIENYOY-15

LTENVOY-16

LTENVOY-I8

Christmas bonus one nonth's pay 1964

#2,400

1,200

1, 200

800

800

1,200

1,200

800

260

800

1,200

2,520

950.;

800

Local purchase suppllea & seutgment

1,000

Upkeap of 2 QP vehicles

afehouse renta

400

rtortaimant & gifts for barloa

1,000

officiels

-1,000

Purchaso of Information vie LTENVOY-?

TOFAL

= 20,300

FY 65

$3,360

1,000

1,680

2,120

1,120

1,680

1,334.

1, 200.

800

1,500

2, 000

1 20,50

Jo Angez.

hao beao eguidtent and lloalquartora tochalcel oupport sumalahod thto projoct

S. Pnarsency Condstiong.

Lost prol a on ent te erge conaeeona arranement ataco the

SECRET

---

