# 104-10073-10142

## Page 1

1104-10073-10742

.. 1.

Г

INFORMATION REPORTIN

FINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

nia material containi

hi, ungle sace. 293 and 794, the transmision or revelerior of which in ay nsane to at unanim

wiin the earing of the laplanegs Lows, Title

peron la pretibled by low.

^7-EN-I-I-A-L

COUNTRY

Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

CI Personalities

DATE DISTR

00-A(5) 3.248,046

CAC simi 5851

NO. PAGES

2

REFEIENCES

_6-303 1.05

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

PATE AGO.

To 23 Dec 62

SOURCE:

A 13: 310 15%

Hevena/to 23 Dec 62

436 SW/5 tOug

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Cuban national, A 13. 310 159, age 20.

бжані. П/а.

, Source vas captured during Bay of Pics Invasion on 29 Apa 62.

served in Castillo del Principe Pricon In Havana until he was ransoner!

and came to Miami on 23 Dec 62.

Source was qualified as a radio opera

tor and as a "forward observer" for artillery. He vas trained in

Guatemala prior to invasion.

This report was developed by an' Air Force representative assigned t

rIice of comlection:

51Oy Gutterrez Menoyo, vio was a Mojor in Fidel Castro'e revolutionary

forces (2a Front

of Escambray) and who 1s varioualy in Miant or else-

where in the US,

1s a Castro agent.

He inforned on 142 men In Cuba,

many of whon are still In prison.

I have also heard from many of my

friends that he is sending infomation to G 2 fron Miami, FlA.:

has infiltrated in anti- Castro groups in the US and swears that he 10

against Castro, but I believe he actually 1s a trusted Castro agent

uses his anti-Castro activities as cover. Regardless of hio apparent

anti-Casti

ities, he is definitely using or exploiting the sulli-

billty ot

¿-Castro organizations and possibly the US goverment

agencies in l Front for what I belleve are his true operationa for Castro.

I belleve this man 1s Involved in activities against the best Interesto

of the United States and should

be thoroughly checked. He Informed on

during July 1959. My brother

was captured In Aus 59 and served in prison until ransoned with me on

My brother arrived in Miant one day after I did. My brothi

and I are willing to testify in a court of law on the above allegation

2

(Inu) Pad11la,

who was an officer in the Isle de PInos Prison In 1960

and no Is in the US, possibly Miami, 16 a Castro agent.

He 18 In his

20's and has typical Cuban (latin) features.

I do not know his complete

name. Many of the people that were in prison told me that this

operating as a Castro agent in the US.

I do not know when he come

to Miami or any other Infornation on this wan other than the above.

AlEXLe HerMAndez, elIGE "Al", dE a Camunet and LE NOT a C? It Al 5ta

(G-2 Ha) in Havana.

Hernandez was a visiting professor of

medicine at the Univeraity of Miami from 1958:to 1959.

While he vas

C-O-N-I-I-D-EiI-I-A-I

- 09808

ALC

CHET BEER

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DO NOT TIPE ABOVE LINE

4.

6.

RACHO.

7.

•2-

here he served as a Castro agent and vas sending Information to the

Go2 In Havana

about ant1-castro activities in Miant

His Fantly st111

live here 1n Mian1, but I do not know their address.

'I have knora.

Hernandez since we were children because ve were raised, in the aime

ares in Havana.

He 1e about 26, 5'6", 130 1ba, black hair and eyes,

and dark. couplextoned.

MARIANAO:

Marina Amlete 16 a chivate and 1a president of Cl where she lives at

Reparto

"En Palmer"

- Marinao' (Havana) 99 Ave

between 126g)128 ste.

She 18 a Communist.

she is about 1i5, 5'7", 140 1ba, blond hair, blue

eyes, married with two amall children. (names unknoun).

_Bhe belonge to

all of the Conmunist organizations and also serves as a guard on the

street.

She alvayo reports on all activities of people. in the neighbor

hood where I lived.

Dalla Gonzalez Is a chivata, a Camunist and lives on 97 Ave and 128 st,

-Tarinao; Havana.

She 18 35, 40 years old, 5'6", 135 Iba, brown eyes

and hair, married with two dauchters, 18 and 21. One 16 a miliciana

and performs guard duty. Dalia 16 the president of CDR vheré the Lives

and aloo belongs to all the Camunist organizationa. She has informed

on many people in the neighborhood where I lived.

Tomas emus Gener, who was a clerl; in the Copahabana Hotel In Mirama,

(Havana),

1s nor a G-2. Officer at. Jose Marti International Asport 11

Reuello Boyeros.

He

checks on Cubans coming to Miani.

He 16 26,

5'62", 155 Ibs, blue eyes and light brown halt. I have know him for

a long time.

Bebo Alvarez, no lives on 59th Ave (Navarette): between 130th and 132a

Streets (Academia Alvarez), 10 a'G-2 It (Investigator) at La Cabens

Prison.

He 1a also the chief of the firing squad: and after people are

executed, he

takes the remains to the cementiay." He 18 about 38, 5:10",

190 Ibs,

black eyes and hai', uses dark classes. He 1a married.

He

was a teacher at the Academia Alvarez mentioned above.

Since he was

one of my teachers in school I have known him for a long time.

-end-

as sies..

SP:

Cut/LINI.

SAS

---

