# 104-10121-10355

## Page 1

(104-10121-10355]

:

SECRET

14 February 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, ID

SUBJECTS

: MAHEU, Peter Robert #234 529

(Mates, Jobe Herbert #527 843) 06,08

ELIS, Richard Allen #551 433) 06,08

GiDN

1. By memorandum dated 5 February 1969 Central Cover Staff

has requested an expedite QKENCHANT Clearance for Peter MAHEU, a

former Office of Security clerical employee, and the son of Robert

A. MAHEU.

2. By memorandum dated 12 February 1969 Central Cover Staff

has also requested a QKENCHANT clearance on Richard Allen ELIIS.) 06

o6 (ETLIS) is employed by Robert A. MAHEU and Associates as a bookkeeper

in Las Vegas, Nevada.

3. Robert A. MAHEU, the owner of Robert A. MAHEU and associates,

was granted a Covert Security Clearance on 30 August 1954 to permit

his use by Central Cover Staff as a covert associate under Project

IPHIDDEN. According to Central Cover Stalf, he has been utilized

since that time and the above firm is

being utilized to provide cover

for an agent in South America. Robert A. MAHEU and Associates is

reportedly a public relations activity whose principal and perhaps

only client is Howard Hughes. At one time Robert A. MAHEU was also

involved in providing investigative and security protection for Hughes

and his enterprise and the Agency utilized both the Washington, D.C.

and Los Angeles offices of MAHEU's organization.

4. Office of Security's concern over the utilization of Robert

A. MAHEU was first expressed in July 1964. (See memorandum to DDS

from Charles W. Kane dated 22 July 1964).

5. On 14 JuLy 1968 D/1 received a request 06

for a Covert Security

Approval to permit laneton i sober A it and a societio

associates.

view of DDP policy as set forth in CSI 50-10 regarding use of employees

of US private detective investigative agenciesy The use of METER was

discussed with Central Cover Staff; the writer was assured that the b

firm Robert A. MAHEU and associates, which the Agency is using for cover

purposes, is no longer associated with investigative or security activities

(see Central Cover Staff memorandun for the record dated 30 July 1968). (laur

Ercinde: trom dutemalle

dcangradiog and

declassifleation

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECREI

However, It appears that Robert A. MAHEU does in fact own, or is a

co-owner of the Bel Air Patrol which is one of the organizations

that is currently establishing security services for Howard Hughes.

See JAFO RUC dated 29 July 1968, Subject: (METER, John Herbert, 06

#517 843 and the above cited Central Cover Staff memorandum.

6. This matter is being brought to your attention because

of the possible interpretation that the use of Robert A. MAHEU

and Associates conflicts with CSI 50-10, and the undersigned believes

that the matter should be reviewed for that reason prior to ID/l's

processing of the Covert security Approval request on Peter

MAHEU and Richard Allen ELLIS. 06

Central Cover Staff takes the position that the use of

Robert A. MAHEU and Associates does not conflict with CSI 50-10

in as much as that firm is now solely engaged in public relations

activities; they believe that Robert A. MAHEU's ownership or

interest in the organizations currently providing security and

investigative service to Howard Hughes is irrelevant. The under-

signed agrees with this position.

Талан Сли

didelin

3172

SECRET

---

