# 104-10065-10070

## Page 1

104-10065-10070

33/391

ACTION: EUR-8 (479)

78 1145700

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

INFO: ODPD-D, VR. FILE, EPS/EG=20

OG/DMS,

PAGE 001

TOR:

181051Z AUG 78

IN

1145700

91172

• (13/W)

SECRET 1809512 AUG 78 STAFF

CITE

491172

TO:

DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL

REFS:

A.

c.

D.

DIRECTOR 235838

DIRECTOR 266612

WASHINGTON 268730

WASHINGTON 272828

HSCA STAFFER MS BRADY MET WITH THOMAS P. CASASIN FOR

APPROXIMATELY THREE HOURS MORNING 17 AUGUST IN OFFICE WITHIN

STATION AREA, PRIOR TO MEETING WITH MS BRADY, CASASIN WAS

ADVISED OF CONTENTS OF REF DO HE INDICATED THAT HE MAD NO

PROBLEMS WITH GROUND RULES AND WOULD REQUEST THAT HIS TRUE NAME

NOT BE RECORDED IN MS BRADY'S REPORT.

2.

AFTER MEETING, CASASIN ADVISED STATION THAT MEETING HAD

GONE WELL, THAT THERE HAD BEEN NO PROBLEMS, AND THAT MS BRADY

HAD BEEN

MOST CORRECT AND BUSINESSLIKE THROUGHOUT INTERVIEW

SAID THAT HE HAD ADVISED MS BRADY THAT HE DID NOT WISH HIS TRUE

NAME TO BE RECORDED IN HER REPORT. SHE REPLIED THAT SHE THOUGHT

THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM WITH THIS, BUT STATED THAT THE HSCA AND

HQS HAD NOT YET WORKED OUT THE ARRANGEMENTS/ GROUND RULES AS TO

HOW THE FINAL REPORT WOULD BE PRESENTED AND WHETHER ANY PART OF

IT WOULD BE MADE PUBLIC.

MS BRADY ALSO ASKED CASASIN IF HE WERE

AWARE THAT HE MIGHT BE CALLED TO WASHINGTON TO BE FURTHER INTER

VIEWED OR TO TESTIFY.

HE REPLIED THAT HE WAS AWARE THAT THIS

WAS A POSSIBILITY, THAT HE WOULD COMPLY IF ASKED TO DO SO, BUT

MOPED THAT

THIS WOULD NOT BE NECESSARY.

MS BRADY GAVE CASASIN

_NO REASON TO BELIEVE THAT HE IN FACT WOULD BE ASKED TO MEET AGAIN

WITH THE HSCA.

3.

MS BRADY EXPRESSED HER WARM APPRECIATION TO THE STATION

FOR ITS COOPERATION IN SETTING UP THE INTERVIEW WITH CASASIN. SME

ALSO REQUESTED THAT HER NOTES AND OTHER CLASSIFIED

MATERIAL BE POUCHED BACK TO HOS. THIS BEING DONE ON 18 AUGUST

SECRET

3X-6 Green

Cu-camber

05702

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 1145700

PAGE 002

TOR: 1810517 AUG 78

IN 1145700

191172

VIA TM NO. 276000.

SHOULD HQS BE INTERESTED IN THE DETAILS OF HIS INTER

VIEW WITH MS BRADY PROVIDED TO THE STATION BY CASASIN. PLS

ADVISE.

" NO FILE. EZ IMPDET...

END

OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

---

