# 104-10142-10079

## Page 1

104-10142-10079

"OIA INTERNAL LOS ONLY

G63

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Thursday - 23. December 1976

J-17

HSCA

77-0007/13

Page 5

Chronio

16. (Unclassified - NDL) JIAISON Called Judy Hollis, in the

office of Senator Roman Hruska (R., Ncb.), and told her that the picture

of the Senator and Mi. Bush would be signed by Mi. Bush as soon es

we got the pictures back from our photographer and we would get thene

to the Senator, She said that would be fine.

17. (Secret - THW) LIAISON Jack Lawn, FBI, called saying that

staff members of the House Select Committes on Assassinations were

bothered by the third ageney rule and could not understand why, if they

are going to see all documents, they cannot look at all documents in

possession of a particular agency, whether that agency's docuneats or

another agency's.

He asked for our position on this matter stating that

the Bureau was willing to allow committee staffers to read certain documents

located elsewhere but wanted to rescive some decuments

for reading at

obtaining the permission of the third agency for revicw of the documenis by

staffers and in general be as cooperative as possible within limits.

18. (Internal Use Only - PLC) LEGISLATION Steve Needle, Office

of General Counsel, OMB, called to advise that the proposed Executive

order to pick up for CIARDS the change in the Civil Service law for computing

cost-of-living increases, will be sent to Justice today with an urgent icquest

that it be expedited for submission to the President.

19. (Secrei - PIC) LIAISON Called Chairman Lucien Nedzi (D., Mich.!

House Armed Services Special Subcommittee on Intelligence, and Bill logan,

Counsel, House Armed Services Committee, and gave them a rundown ou

the Moore case from the fact sheet by Security.. Chairman Nedei gave me his

home phone and asked that I call him if anything important devclops. Ilert

word with Mr. Gambino's, 1/05, office to call me al home should anything

¿portant come up and advise them of Chairman Nedzi's interest in the case.

..is

CC:

O/i:11

Mr

11)1

I LI: 1..

MILLER

Acting bogislativo Counsel

20135

17100d1

Ail. Lapham

Ir: Sif

SA/DO/O

compt retires

---

