# 104-10172-10294

## Page 1

104-10172-10294

Fruit:

R101

TO

mOM

NO

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

RETURN TO CIA.

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ador the sane shape ond to desteered one u

60-008 88 669

CORVET'S

CA! €

9.

29 12

1400L

ABSTRACT

reet

Dilwe..

8.

Fillert

JU

10.

WE// - CF

19.

14.

85.

16.

10.

F810188

DATA MICALFAMIO

Betta

41Ca

104910409

8. SEA: 1959

Sep

1%

1%

Sept

RIF

5-8: a critical

assessment of what

whe jelling

iont y Thi

stationstip ra. whe the

Le in eter.

8 9% 9 wide you wanled looks

nito this situation tre closely

in conjiuction with, c staff

Wen t quit the your rew azto the

future of this Meatiniship.

9 owle lihe to be able to

discuss it persially withs

Then Jam ni Friland.

also Chould be brought if

ive vi 67 sept.

tered.

22

COLUMESI CATE

SECRET

006685598696669

.22

COFHT-00080

418R

I ad

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

270576020

TO

nico

Chlei, iB

Chief, Sh

201-150156

FROM

SURECT

Chief ca station,

RESCAP/LINPOTE. • Procuring of Fraale

Companicaship for Cricorly Ye. COuBtA

Iè Aurust 1959

65 - INECE TONI

MACH!O FOE INDEXIAG

ACTION AFQUILIO

INDERING CAN BE IUOGIO

BY QUAIPILO NO DISA ONIS

FYI

OFCA 4067, 14 August 1959

22

By reference dispatch we mentioned an intriguing turn of events

-In the costillo/Colub relationshi, concerning the lattarig request for

Costillo to fix hin up alth a girl. However, we would first like to bring

you concletaly up to date on our contact with

Golub.

We have recently been

having & number of consular Istterg which we have dealt with through Golub.

A numbor of Amerleans have been calling at the U. S. Pabassy who have not

previously applied for Soviet visas and express e desire to travel to the

USS?..

Costille has been referring these Americans directly to Golub at the

i tho

Soviet Fabaosy, as Golub once told Costille that he had the authority to

grant visas without prior approval fren Moscow. As long as the Anericans

had nade travel arrangenents through a locel travel bureau, as vell an hotel

reservations, he stated he had no objectiong in giving them a visa in a

matter of minuses. He have had four occasions to try Golub out in thie

matter, and so fer he has fulfilled his promise. Golub. on 3. August invited

Costille for drinks in a local bar, and Costille asked hit again 1f he was

still willing to continue handling the Americans that he referred to Sol'ub

at the, Soviet Consulate.

Golub stated that he was because he was interested

In having Anericans visit the Soviet Undon. "And besires, * he added, "gince

can't let brainery Avercens cone to the Us. there then besson hing

Colub then began asking

about the official functione of an American Consulate and began comparing his

dultes with ours.. When he listed his typical duties, he added that it was

his responsibility as a Soviet Consul to handle Soviet defectors who cario to

Finland. Colub mentiored that he had just returned from one of his more un

pleasant duties of recovering the body of a Sovlet sailor, who had gone berserk

and had shot and killed a number of soviet citizens on an island off the coast

of Estonia, stole a small notor launch and headed for Finlendo

His body was

found in the sea by a Finish fishermen near the Finnish island of Mustareronen

with & Innish life

jacket on.

(This was reported in most of the finnish

newspapers.

Evidertly,

the Soviet had attempted to swin for it and dromer.

Golub stated that he had to go to this island, recover the body and bring 1t

back to Helsinid whore it was put into & mortuary.

The cause of death was

definitely drowning. The body only had a Finnish life jacket and a pair of

swirming trunks on.

They later found the motor boat, but the motor was gone

and there was nothing in the boat.

Later a Sovlet destrojer came to Helsinid

to rotrieve the body. It was evidently Colub's responsibility to make all

of these errangenents. Colub stated on this evening that he rould like to

make e call on the U. S. Consulate sometine. Costille said thet he was welesme

at anj tire.

The next morning Golub. phoned Costille to say he would like to

KunE come over.

He arrived carrying a nurber of Soviet visa and other. forms.

Ho rezained in the Consulate for about an hour and asked zant quastions ag

to consular duties and U.S. citizenship.

He departed Inviting Costille to

pay a sizilar call on him at the Soviet Consulate.

The reat da! Costille

phoned Colub to ast. if te =ight come over to see the Soriet Congulate.

We

also wantad to introduce to Colub an Elbassy employee, Edward berg, who 13

in Helsinks through the sumer fros the U.S. Babassy in faris or. TDY for the

purpose of holpinz the labassr with the number of VIP and other Aprican

tourists ming to the U.S. fair in Moscow.

Since he has alse been handling

some visa archiers, ve wanted hin to neet Golub. Golub welcoged Costille

and Sers at the Soviet Consulate end look tree into his office where the three

chatter fer abcut 20 minutes.

Costille elso had sith hin the rises of tro

American women the wanted to spent one more day in the Soviet Union and to

take the train rather than fly.

solub made the incessary clanges ea their

vinas nihout a question.

It this tice colub invited Costille and Mers to

have lunch me his on 10 inpust.

PAGe 0O

611 098+5

7-195777250

3/BR

189° 93

DO CONTRATE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINENT: 2414

DISPATCH

2.

significant vocalls of tila lunt vere poriod in refercies 119-

jaêch.

want

doin

some very lol lones at it dis taro

rain! Co-Lilia lo

firhlaus sick a date.

coatille asted his if he was serious, dince lie we-

Golub duct laughed and ter;unded that it more ro illiference

to timo Costille exprossed amazecent this wint in no finda girla since

Herever, iolid cinced triat ho knew fore.

5.7

Cosed ester for tured year rave wido a plore call Later.

Arrange

und? Costille sidies

• cents here shue

that he know a ood Flanish firl who maried for : local doctor liat was

trustworty and could hendle the situation. fer ne is being forwarled under

Bogarate sorer as Identity.

On Fridar evening, Costille contacted Iden to

briefly exalsia what she saculd expect.

Idey is about 31 years old, axtrerely

attractive, hell dressed, speaks hoth fiaris" and infillah, ind remed very

cooperative.

we told her that tolut was tle Sories. Consul, a personal friend

of Costilie's, unhaprily married with his wife was was in losoon, and that

ha rad

requested a date.

She mentioned that it scinded interesting ard that

she wouid to ready for anything. he told her nothing shout any operational

interest in colub but mentioned he would like to keep posted on the relation

ship.

However,

we strossed that as far as Colub was concerned Ider and

Costille had known each other before and had dated. She understood this

corpletely.

OUT

only regervations sbout Iden was that she is far fron an

"intollectual" and hes a rather silly sisalo.

There would be only one reason

why Golus vould be interested In Iden, and this would not be for her mind.

22

3. The evening was spent

dinner dancing at a local night spot. Also

attending were Subject of fOFiA 2918, berg and another American teaching school

In Helsirici. Colub seened to enjoy himself trenendously, was always at ease,

but preferred Costille's date to his own. He paid very little attention to

Iden, altrough he was pleasant to her; he orly talked at length with her when

ho ielt it necessary to be polite. Colub danced with all the giris end

appeared to be a passable dancer.

A night ciub p'olographer was asked to take

a photo cs Golub with his dete while incirg. The sicture turned out with a

profile stot (however recognizable) of Golus, but unforturutaly hi: date's

face was canaletely hidden.

Golub was not stare oi this photo..

(The original

we are keering in our files but have attiched a thernofax copy. The only

conversation worth reporting was that Colettle askel Subject of OFHA 2918, 22

who is & teacher of arglish in Helsinki, If she wuld be willing to teach sore

Soviet diplomats English. She agreed, but nothing sore has been heard en this

score, Gelub then requested that te continuo the evening in his apartont

Listening to Russian music and drinking cognac.

The Ercup renaired

about two hours. Again Colub paid mere attention to Subject of OrM 2918 and 22

ignored his ora date. When Costille mentioned it was time to leave, the girlo.

excused tremsalves to 60 to the ladies rose.

When they had left the room,

Golub came up to Costille and asked if he could go home with Iden. Costille

responded that thig was not up to him and told Colub to ask the girl. Costille

asked hin siy he just didn't ask her to star in his apartment for the night.

Golub arstered that he preferred to go to her apirtsent. He then went to ask

Iden if he could go hose with her.

Howerer, Golub tade the group good bye

at the ces docr and kent back upstairs to his apartent. Later Costille asked

Iden whet tad happened when Golub made the proposition.

Iden, who was a little

niffed at his ignoring her, stated that she was a little tired but told him

he couid phone her the following week. Since that evening he has phoned her

twice bat tas not had the opportunity to see her.

so lub also praised to

Invite Costille ard Subject of O'ii)2919 to kis apertient later on to rear

Sore mOre FISgian IUSiC.

22

ho will keep you posted en Colut's rela-ionship with Iden.

During

the evenire Golub did

not once appear to be rervous or embarrcesed about being

seen out in rublic with someone besides his lite.

Hilia L.

1D 330,

inclosures - Iler Lag.Co

Thats

Distribution

2 - SR - 14÷1

1 83 938

40814041879

Cassetaras

Race no.

MIBR

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

06

Selkalnon, Finland

POte

CASSOcATION

A634 NO

SIBR

---

## Page 5

14-0000

idina.

.1.

---

