# 104-10073-10083

## Page 1

104-10073-10083

DISPATCH

Chief, WiD

CLASSIFICAVION

SCRET

DEFATCH STANCH AND NO.

(HOPA) - 3308

ETHIS FILE NO

23 - 115- 29

TO

INTO

FROM

SUECT:

116-16

DATE

Chief of Station,

Operational / KUTUS.

PHQ Part II for KIAMBROSIA - 29

ACTION #EQUIRED.

Issuance of Proviáional Operational Approval

16 June 1959

RE: "433° - (CHECK "g" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED / 3:

BY QUALFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

(HOPA)- 3291

Enclosed are four copies of PRO Part II information on (KAMBROSIA~29)

1s requested that a Provisional Operational Approval be lssued for her by 15 July,

to be folloved by ruti Operational Approval

as soon as possible

Cline P. Burm

Oliver R. Bynam

Attachment:

PRQ Part II, 4 Cys (HEREWITH)

16 June 1959

Distribution:

3 - Hqs.,.w/att as stated

- Files

ORB : sjg

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

PER SEA:

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"Issuence-of Proviniond ducationut provad

HOPA -*3291

Enclosed ard four copses of PRe Part Il informutson on RAMROS 29) Je

Is requested that a Provisional Querational Approval be issued for her by 15 July,

to be followed by full Operational Approval as soon as possible.

Oliver R. Bynam

%.

Attachment:

PRQ Part II, 4 Cys (HEREWITH)

16 June 1959

Dlatributioni

53 - Hqo, w/att as stated

2

u. Flles

ORB: sjg .

нід.

and do 25

CLASSIFICATION

FORMA

10.59 53

(40)

LiSE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORAIS

51.7e.

$*.78A AND 51 28

WHiCH ARE OBSOLETE.

201-8,1382

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

ICTIONS

MICROFICNE

DESTROY AFTER USE

---

## Page 3

00000.

PERSONAN RA

JEST IONNA IRI

PART II - OPERATIONAL' INFOR

NATION

(HOPA) - 3308 / PRO/II

It S

subject angula 1!!!

PRO

nablöce

RO In Ali our nana.

n by

Fully

• Data sedulie

•adquat

• PRO

PRO NUMb

PRO

01 1

36. Cryptony_

KIAMBROSIA - 29

37°.

How, when and whore was subject first contacted or developed!

Subject was net by (KAMBROSIA 1 at the end of 1957 when both

were working at the Ministry for (KLAMBROSIA.

Could subject be

turned over quickl

and in a secure manner to

Io whoa? (ADAMBROSIA

39. Best estimate of subject's motivation

for the

Loyalty to (KANGUISH and friendship with KAMEROSIA-1 A180

salary she would receive.

11250)

FOr 63N 46-25

MAP 150: 81-008

SECRET

1 COPY

1611257357

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

- DESTROY ALTER USE

---

## Page 4

14900000

40,

1o and 120 pac

Reoult?

Amat elde has been done to verify basraphical normation

Purritshed by subject?

Station files were

checked with negative results on the date of

submission of this PRQ Part

41. What control exiets over subject at pretents How can it do Inoreaded? E

Payment or balaty and the fear shes

may have that (KIANGUISH may

have her discharged from her job. fi

42.:

Tor what vor of does ho tatar he la vorsins? that does he true

For the DaD servico, Bolievas the infomation tool to TANGuISi.

13. Haplain fully subject'e past or present connoction with ens

Intelligence service®

None

44.

what type of Information had subject furnished? What type 1e he

beat qualified by education and experience to Purish? a Give

evaluation of information received.

Infornation about the activities of the Ministry of Govarnment and

especially the activities of the Ministor himself.

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY AFTER USE

8

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-90090

1% 71

SEC

HOPA»- 3308./pRe/11

It

ge aro to be othor than intolliones a thoring

No

46.

Has he been given speosal tra

No

an agent? Explain.

How and from

whom does he obtain

rmation?

From her place of employment

148.

In it proposed to pay sub fect

a regular

salary? It do, amount por

wook, month, ote ' Explain any.

other methods of payment; such aud

exchange commodities.

Sho is to be pedal Bs. 300,000

7 month. ($ 25)

49.

Have any promiees

or commitments whatsoever (not covered binewhere

in thie foral Don mado to aubject?!

Explain.

None

50 •

Aro subJectle language abllitles and other character latten buch

that he could pass as a native of a country or region other than his

own? Explain:

As citizen of any Latin American country, because if her Spanish

descent and native language Spanish.

NCROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS'

DESTROY AFTER USE

---

## Page 6

14-0000,04

SECRET

52 •

/ 1:4

lovor addie alasol peasantry,

Upper nadio classor dA

What are aubject'e

personal habite?

or loveral

None

Liquor, druge, gambline, mietresses

53. Evaluation of eubject'e character, rellability, security.

Rospectable ur tola-minded, Appear!

to be security-conscious.

None

55.

What special abilities; talente,

or qualificatione are possessed by,

subject which would conceivablybe of

value for other operations 1r

the future?

None known

paint

36.3

Attach samplos of subject's signature and handwriting In ail languages

known to him, also a recent, dated photograph, and fingerprints.

NA

• 10.

SECRET

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY AFTER USE

*.*.

---

## Page 7

14-90000:

.: N

(HOPA) 3303./ PRO/II

22N

St ton/was informatton/In Part I obtalned?

58. her alecellaneoua, operational data and commente.

it no. s

- 11

SECRET

Oliva P. Bijnan

Wiver R. 9918 01f100

2OPY

201757382

MICROFICHE

ELSERCY

REPRODUCTIONS

AFTER USE

---

