# 104-10331-10342

## Page 1

1104-10331-10342

UNCLASSIFIED

27 June 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Gloria M. Boyd @ DA

@ DA

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

JFK Database Extract for NARA

On June 15, we met with Mike Getsey and Bill Grover of NARA to discuss improvements to the JFK database extract. The following

issues were discussed and will require action.

This could result in a modification to the application.

No 2. HAG shaud also discuss with Steve Tilley the new exemption codes and determine what effect they wil have on the collection. This

could result in a modification to the application.

page

/3. HRG should print ID aids on white paper.

NARA would like us to provide ar least one keyword(subject) per document and any number of keywords per acument. NARA will b

5. NARA has preliminary plans to expand the title field from 60 characters to 80 characters; they do not want the field truncated.

However, the title will still be truncated unless HRG modifies their data to 80 character. This will require a modification te the

(aso?)

4. MAR want to do in it in enor on a do i not a le piecion, - commat

7. NARA would like the Onening Criteria to say a true criteria as opposed to the current canned statement. This will require a

modification to the application and data populaton by HRG.

blau

j is ok

8/ NARA would like the box number and folder information prefixed to the comments field. This will require a modification to the

application.

NARA will be faxing their new formats and examples to us this week. I will contact you to schedule a meeting to review the above

issues.

Thank you and I can be reached on 36417(S).

CC:

@ DA

bou E sheet

UNCLASSIFIED

---

