# 104-10069-10168

## Page 1

104-10069-10168

Color, Contact levisada

Support bal LA Crickets:

98911

Chief, Ben Nort Otz120

5136

48/00767

Converenua Mids Mannoder 1, Massey 31 Chantors Struct,

Do Y024, 8. 20

6 860 1930

Mores colles on Rosto boe morning of 5 July 60 do e socuit

vo Dividloa, do oletca

mneston of valuo concernine Cube.

paromanio non, ubout 3u youro old,

cho en Mão o confocion to earnet corgulous. Do 218 not cours to

losso dbcaribes binoals an 9 frog lenco nepostes

eva photoragua sho hoo toricod nostly for te marlonod Bonadeosting

Compeny on ancigansas.

Es anyo ho lo slos erving to rhe a lirag 3y

prodicine Rocurzapery Calas for teloveion otitim ViCY In Now Too.

Ho chetan thet ho wil tortly finish for thems, doomeotary Conecrales

the vartone grams disch de la oracicion to cartrai

cho diftoo or his techer,

Discenable Onto

Rexto embatna ther no troop wary yeople

Pratro; Coate Pice, Pubs and other conso, aul he sego that boonuse os

o koan incorat to do proble of yous con be done about Caatro on

Communera an Cube, and tie wors co the curan docicentory pile, he hoo

boon beopine 1a cioco tour vita varlore Cuben urboalt!oo Brougo. to

instated on going Into his Cordibeen backgrind de stead lengti end

describod 1n detail hio Vielts M Bicorana:

Ponie,Cube ere, The

evenco ho meloned are all peat sick zy: nor lorenor/

Ka mal ner

attemt on rocom% thin kero.

nyone 144

303

Barto cro 01l hia heround perely to try to prove

that ho

so cola deguadnted to the eltuation lo Cube and intereone the vartour

vincoln Ground/de shen came to tele mal point which to kase bo

regards tea trac, non he bus orca o cmor dan ne reportly, on the

bond cord or zy? toose too vons to tale cotton ngotret Cootro Ho

gaule in tho cuban any and other Cuben brominatlene sop con lent tho

perpst that tha gigat cine coucu.

According to Portio, Lisas boltoveo

chas tho job dosala be dono by Cubeo fom a boso oureldo the to, coa

duno Lans ta bruno end rasourceful one to loud a cuccessful cotta

19 bo do curtacca the necessory deu and anciation, Ronto belleyes,

rumas, cast tons la politically in tho aladic of too apol, chat au

is tot sotivated by barred and vodid ant brag obost a blood bach tra

Cuba, Za Coort, bo foelo taot Lena voidn ba mith tha 13 all she tity.

# 08842

---

