# 104-10124-10199

## Page 1

104-10124-10199

UNGLASSIFIED

TERNAL

CON

ROUTING "AÑD" RECORD SHEET

ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional):: 13/6

FROM:

TO:

MEROLA, Joseph R. (OS #625 693)

MIT RICON OFFICER

6M.6TG

• CONTACT SERVICE

BUILDING

desigestion, Pg8 number, and

RECEIVED

Chief,

Personnel Security

Division, OS

Rm 3E36 Headquarters:

ATTN:

Pauline White

EXTENSION

17244.

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

5 December 1972

COMMENTS (Number

each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw @ line ocross column after each comment.)

FORWARDED

2.

3.

Dects ear

REE:

DCS/MIM481-72 dtd 20 Nov 72

Attached Is & copy of the

referenced memorandum for your

information and records.

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

as lot Reproduce

10

11.

12

13.

14.

15.

FORAA

3-07

60 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

COMFOZITAL

CONFIDENTIAL

E2 IMPDET CL. BY

007622

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

DATIRNAI PROM NO 1.

MAY IDEA IDITIEN

GSA FRiTE (al CFIrl p51-91.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

ATTN:

: Director, Donestic Contact Serice

Services Division

FROM : Chief, Miami Field Office

MIM-181-72

DATE: 20 November 1972

SUBJECT:

Joseph R. Merola

I. We recently received a call from Joseph R. Merola, Gordon

Cooper and Associates, Opa-Locka, Florida, who informed us that he

was entering the county jail in Nassau County, New York on 13 Novem-

ber 1972 to begin a one year

sentence for petty larceny.

He stated

that he felt he should let us know his whereabouts "in case you wanted

to get hold of me for anything".

2.

Nerola, of course, protested his innocence to us and stated

that he was accused of participating in an armed robbery and was tried

claimed that the prosecuting attorney recommended dismissal of the

charges because of his inability to prove Merola's guilt. Merola

alleges that the judge stated that Merola's record proves him an un-

desirable character and therefore the charges should not be dropped.

The judge thereupon offered him the choice of a retrial with a promise

of a twenty-five year sentence if convicted, or to plead guilty to a

charge of petty larceny with a one year sentence. Merola choose the

latter.

3. We thanked him for his thoughtfulness and wished him well.

03

BRUCE E. MAIWARING

j..!

3 hmm

5:s.1.1

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 004476

Buy U.S. Sawings Bonds Rogulariy on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

