# 104-10071-10123

## Page 1

104-10071-10123

C=52 525R

FERSE VUNIT

FLAT DISSEMINITION

ADVANCE COPY

ISSWED

SLOTTED

CUISSIFIED MESSIGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP!

ENO, DOES FRIA NETOSSATIE

(When Filled Ir)

BOHRGRADIS AND

DECLASSOR ICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDE: | YES

D NO

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS • SEEN BY

6

5

10

DISSEM SY

12 PER SOP = 117

ACTION

C/WH

RID COF

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO-

X-REF TO FILE NO..

FILE RID I RET. TO

INFO:

SECR

ET 381585Z APR

CITE

DIRECI OR

BRANCH O

DESTROY sIG.

VA.

DUL, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, <S/RF

72, SUSPENSE C/WH, COS EYESIA

hod 10068

MHAL PHA

8 APR N87118

REF

4024

IN 86537).

1.

ACCORDING RUABBE-1 MORNING 8 APRIL, FOUR GROUPS TRYING GET

DEMONSTRATIONS GOING AGAINST AMEMBASSY KINGSTON BUT WITHOUT SUCCESS:

An

GROUP OF LEFTISTS INCLUDING WINSTON MONROE ARE IN CONTACI

WITH AMERICAN BLACK POWER MAN' WHO ARRIVED LAST WEEK SNOT KNOWN IF

BEFORE OR AFTER ASSASSINATION DOCTOR KING). THIS GROUP SAME AS ONE

A MENTIONED REF, PLANNED SEND SMALL DELEGATION TO AREA AMEMBASSY

HE AROUND NOON & APRIL TO SEE IF ANYTHING COULD BE STARTED. THE

AMERICAN BLACK POWER MAN WITH THEM IS SAYING THAT WITH GOJ FULL OUT

IN PUBLIC SYMPATHY WITH DR. KING, WILL BE DIFFICULT TO GET ANYTHING

GOING. RUASSE-1 COMMENTED IT UNCERTAIN IF THIS GROUP WILL TAKE

ANY ACTION.

B. LEROY INNIS, PRESIDENT OF IME GUILD OF UNDERGRADUATES OF

UNIVERSITY OF WEST INDIES (UWI). IRIED GET UWI STUDENTS GO ON

DEMONSTRATION BUT WITHOUT SUCCESS. (COMMENT: STUDENTS ON VACATION

AND NOT SCHEDULED RETURN TO CLASSES UNTIL TUESDAY 9 APRIL SO ARE

FREE FOR ACIION IF SPARK CATCHES).

C.

PRINCE: SUSTER, LOCAL LEADER OF BLACK MUSLIM MOVEMENT, IS

7553

---

## Page 2

14-00000

PERSON'UNIT NOTIFIEO

ADVANCE COPY

YSSUEO..

SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE :.

* -TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP&

(When Filled in)

REPRODUCTON OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: I! YES D NO

ROUTING AND/OR INITALS - SEEN BY

3

5

10

BY:

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

DISSEM BY.

ACTION

RID-COF

#TREE TO FILE NO..

FILE POD DRET. TO

INFO.

FILE

KR,

• BRANCH O

DESTROY O SIG.

PAGE 2

4285 SECRET

WAITING WORD. FROM MUHAMMED ALL, BLACK MUSLIM LEADER IN U.S.A. AND -

IBS. NO. ACTIVE PLANSIZI

ORGAHIZING UNDER WAY.

Do MORTIMER PLANER, RASTAFARIAN WHO PARTICIPATED IN

DEMONSTRATION AGAINSI. BRILISH HIGH COMMISSION OVER RHODESIAN

HANGINGS, HAS CONTACIED SOME STUDENTS AND MENBERS OF HIS OWN

FOLLONING. THESE STUDENTS REPORTEDLY SAID THEY WOULD

BACK PLANER.

HOWEVER, NO INFO AVAILABLE ON TIMING OR STAIUS

PLANERS. EFFORTS.

Zai: ABOVE PASSED: AMBASSADOR .:

RUABBE-I

SAID HAS AGENIS MONITORING

ABOVE ACIIVILIES AND. WILL ADVISE ANY DEVELOPMENTS AFFECTING REF•

SECRET

BT

• C/S Comment: * Report of possible demonstrations on 8 April because of Dr. King

assassination

-G--

...

SECRET

---

