# 104-10074-10137

## Page 1

1104-10074-10137

DISPATCH

Chief, WE

OFORN/ CONTINUED CONTRO

15-4

Chief of Station,

24,01

Transmittal of photocopies of noteboo's

or John

• REQUIREO

1248337

HEADQUARTEES FRE NO.

29-2-5

DATE

27 OCT. 1959

RE: "13-3° - (CHECK "' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

1..

report on subject and photocoples of (all ?

his notebooks, (b) a map of Pittsburgh with several crosses marked on 1t,

2.

Althougial

Twas working with ODENVY on this case and did the

work at their request,

they were given to us due to the number of names that

figure in the notebooks of people llving outside the U.S. Naturally, these

photocopies were just passed to ODENVY, L

15-4

Ipassed us photocopies on a loan basis.

We re-photographed

them and are forwarding the negatives also. No coples are being retained

Bagdonas apologizes for some of the photos but states, in a firm

roice

that they are better than the ones from which he had to work.

No names have been carded

Paris®

DUDLEY P. JENIONS

Enclosures:

Envelope contain

26 Ostober 1959

Distribution:

13 - WE, w/encis

ems

In para 1, h/w

RETURN TO CIA

Bäckground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INDEX

10.466

Cs COPY

---

## Page 2

14-00000

12:01 959.

*.to

144

SECRET®

nc tdN COnMRUSS CONTICI

497

22

-2et 8 RChNescitiuES SuT JOUA FITREAN.

MEZENL & VUSSO DOSe DU 1520 üu 23.5.1559

ITEE SCLiTOS a Mcicco: 1ug io 1 pirade litaeao

pluslein curtes de 2s10.

NouB ävui ju tuannôler le i-jour à Fumis &e :

A Lể M ễ 6 à

stluntu (Gecl.is)

juIIiliSto Lu DAITY dOJOR.

I'Intéressig

ji j'erma el ses entunis soni dasseidus

22 95à 1late GC.

:18 14

rue se

I"IPCETA à FAHIS,

suat sopurtis lo 5uo:o1i9 dnia la setreo gur amloa

LOUT iLÁORESO 11D Y Sunt I SteS juSyAU LinENDE & IC-r

1655, dube ü lingacile

ju"ils

01.1

il's uut reverus

à Fi-IS deis le aine

qulnté dcliritiresent Je 6 Cescire I959, par

dvion,

à desticasion de : cocou.

Le iploate sovicLljue ZOUEV ICurt, ati ae d"aabas

aide s'eut ver i nanlle..ent

occuge *e

leur liire deimer Farh

soment les

visus nccesinires ilsi que de les tim iocostllit

ia . Utcibe

Houy M'ovois Fu protourtaler : 19) le3 --71d

rcases de John -IfTinN ou tiyrout e

tres sonbrer resor

biajuhts duéricuiro

ot ie smbreus étringesa dos cesis

LNMS :OLi DIRUS COinE MeltI COinWiiBi0S IItariChun;

2° ) Uajiala

i"avunle jü

•e DIeS3e.

A.r.....

?::

...?...

jmlgte Comü:lata trunçais 01 T7=17==l

Müiù iuido soriona Obiigio de âsi luira ar=1= Ii ce

.Ciatlio3. ICnäcihándns poür vuos Un riel laccrês.

SECRET

NO8Ry ConLa3 C0,RE4

---

