# 104-10146-10313

## Page 1

104-10146-10313

CONFIDENTIAL:

INTERNAL USE ONLY.

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Tuesday - 14 March 1978

FISCA

Page 4

13. (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Called Representative Bob

Carr (D., Mich.) in response to his earlier request and based upon

the information provided byl

NE Division, I told MI.

Carr that the Agency had not developed abroad any information on the

travel of Sami Eshmil and that we had gotten an alert from the FBI on.

Eshmil's earlier trip to Libya but not on his trip to Israel when he was

arrested.

14. (Unclassified - MDC) LIAISON Received a call from Rita

Argenta, of the House Armed Services Committee staff, who wanted

to know what clearances Williston B. Cofer, of the Committee staff,

holds.. After checking with Compartmented Information Branch, I

informed Rita of Cofer's clearances and amended our records to reflect

same.

15. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Called Dave Melocik,

Congressional Relations, Drug Enforcement Administration, and suggested

that he respond to the House Select Committee on Assassinations request

for information on QJWIN independently.. I also indicated to Melocik that

we had a similar request from the Committee and would respond directly

to them.

16. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Betsy Wolf and Ken Klein,

of the House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, visited Headquarters

to review Agency material.

17. (Unclassified - MG) LIAISON Received a call from Bob Sutter,

Congressional Research Service at the Library of Congress, who requested

two wall maps; one of. China (5015751-73) and one of Central Asia and the

Soviet Union (5019599-73). Both were forwarded to him this date.

18. (Unclassified - MG) LIAISON Received a call from Kathy Taylor,

Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, who wanted to inform me that she

was giving a Secret package to the afternoon courier for Mr. Bob Hepworth,

NFAC/CSS.

I thanked her for calling.

19. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Hal Ford,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who asked me to find out

the status of the report of the Agency's task force on the Frank Snepp

allegations.

21366

BONSOCIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY,

in a

---

