# 104-10142-10133

## Page 1

104-10142-10133

a call

CIA MITERNAL USE 0X

Abradi

SECRET

JOURNAL

Chromo

J-1

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

HS CA

Monday - 6 December: 1976

Contact

1. (Unclassified - BAA) LIAISON Carol Amato, House Select

committee on Assassinations

Ons statt, called and cancelled the meeting to

"De held this morning between Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel of the

Cornmittee, Sid Stembridge, DD/OS, and Mr. Cary. Another meeting was

set for 10:30 tomorrow morning. Mi. Stembridge was advised.

2. (Unclassified - BAA) EMPLOYMENT Jason Cook, in the office

of Representative Gus Yation (D., Fa.), called to schedule an employment:

interview for Elias "Lee' Tallas, a constituent. An interview was set

with Mx. Howard Dissner, WARO, for 3:00 this afternoon.

3. (Confidential - GLC) FAA/LIAISON Called Rob Roy Ratliff,

National Security Council, and he confirmed that the President had signed

another Presidential finding on 3 December.

1. (Secret - GUC) EAA ALERT/LIAISON Called Guy McConnell,

Senate Appropriations Committee staff, and alerted him to the information ve

had on the Bob Woodward article, gave him the essential information on

1324 the discussions between selves ra te Department it theo Micronesia

Depaitment of Justice.

I mentioned to McConnell my discussions with Charles Snodgrass:

Defense Subcommittee staff, House Appropriations Committee, about what

the Senate is doing on the authorization bill.

I told him we had received a cable from the field concerning Bill

Jordan's, also of the Commitice staff, interest in a sensitive project at

that station. I told licConnell that we would be prepared to give Jordan a

limited briefing on this mailer when he returs from his trip.

I also told McConnell that we had another Presidential finding and

that Tom White would be by to give him the details.

20151

VRV

---

