# 104-10182-10026

## Page 1

104-10182-10026

= TES CHO

I HIS TO FILE NO -

FROM SANAVE

ACTION

1w

NO

_CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

"SECRE!

BET 10 ARANCH C

iatv sed 4-451

ABS 109

ROJA

5

X RID COPY

SECRET 1223574,6-7

$288Z 12 AUG 65

IN 31368

DIR INFO LANTE JBARR CITE WAVE 4916

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATAS AMOT-84 IN AMOT REPORT DD-1558, DATED 5 AUG 65, FROM

AMLINT-I WHO VISITED DOCKS, PARA 3 BASED ON UFS-74526

RID INDEX. FILES 122357Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM COUNTRY: CUBA

SUSU: POSSIBLE USE DY THE ELSAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECE) OF

THE •OTOR VESSEL FL-577-F IN ACTIVITY AGAINST CURA

001: 29 JULY 1965 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 AUGUST 1965)

UF6-74548

SCURCE:

A MEMBER CF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINEO IN THE TECH-

NICLES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL

REPERTS SINCE 1961.

IN COMMENTi

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WIRE

81

TH/C

HELISAEIWO

Unt

GLEN

TDs 08-31519283355

TROUTINE

_ PRICAITY

LASSO ON

TF5-745%.

l#: 4407-84

While a

TDATE DISTRIBUTEDA

13 AUGUST 1955

14572

LAiSON I

free,

BEL DES TO DETONATES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINTED

Copy tha

---

## Page 2

(810 899098+56,

08 8 15-89

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTICULO DISSEM

• ROUTINE

COUNTIY

DATE OF

INPO.

CENTRAI INTELLIO INCE AGINCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CUBA

29 JULY 1965

TDCS DB-115/02620-65

DISTR. 83 ALGUST 1965

POSSIBLE USE BY ME CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE

(RECE) OF THE MOTOR VESSEL FL-84TT-E IN ACTIVITY

AGAINST CUBA.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 AUGUST 1965)

PLACE A

DATE NOQ.

AND

APPRAISAL

TOCSO8-315/02681-631 368

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-7454.

A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CURAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TEORIQUES OF

INFORMATION COLLECTIONI, THE GEQUE MAS PROVIDEO USEFUL READATS SINCE

1961.

!' ON 29 JULY 1965 THE PEDREGEITACICN CUSANA EN EL EXILIO

(RECE, CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE) HAD A E5-TOCT BOAT, WHICH WAS

EQUIPPES WITH TW: 155-HORSEPOWER MERCURY ENGINES, AT THE DOCKS AT

288 NN NORTH RIVER DRIVE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, THE SUAT-HAS DATATED DARR

GREEN, CARRIED FLORIDA REGISTRATI ELAD: 77-5, AND WAS AL'EST READY

FOR USE IN DERATIDNIS AGAIAST CUBA, CARLOS ZAPPAGA MARTINEZ AND

AUGUSTO "POLO" VALDES MIRANDA HERE UNDERSTOOD TO DE VISITINO THE

CITE DAILY, (SOURCE CONMENT: VALDES FORMERLY NINADED THE MATUEY

SREWERY IN MAÑACAS, LAS VILLAS PROVINGE, A FIR CUNEG BY JOSH. M.

CONFIDENT!AL

ATENTIACS MANT

• CONTRELLLD OISSCE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

108.442

16.783

ard.

as a 185 ra coloss do dad SE

CONTEND CISSEM

$51 84 29.

1:1.P

CONFIDENTIAL

2. OURINE ONE OF THEIR VISITE TE THE URORE CAPRAGE AND VALDES

ALLEGEDLY WERE HEARO SAYINO, "WE ARE SCIN TO FOOL THE "GRINGOS"

BECAUSE THEY DO NOT EVEN ORLÁA THAT WE ARE READY TO FISHT FOR CUBA."

ZARRAGA AND VALDES WERE ALSO SAID TO HAVE MADE THE FOLLOWING STATE-

MENT IN THE PRESENCE OF THE DOCK MANAGER AND OF THE CREW OF THE

FL-8477-F: "WE GIVE NOTICE TO THOSE WHO APE CONNECTED WITH THE

"GRINGOS" THAT SOME DA, WE SHALL MAKE WAR ON CASTRO FROM CENTRAL

AMERICA."

S. (FIELD COMMENT: ANOTHER SOURCE REPORTEO THAT CRE 1E AUGUST

CALANDO ROSCH AVILA, HEAD OF THE LOVIMENTO INDIRRECTIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIDEDIA CURE, INSURORGTILAL MOVEREIT FOR

REVELUTIINARY RECOVERY, ASCE DANG THINE AN ERGENTIFIED

HIS GROUP HAD BEEN GRANTEO PFPMISSION TO USE AT ECLONGING TO

AUGUSTE "POLO" VALDES CURANA, VALDES WAS EGLIGNED TELE INVOLVED IN

THE OPERATION.)

%. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINGSO, COMANESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, FAl, CUSTOMS, MONO, MINDER PATROL, AND USES.

ENO OF MESSANE

CONFIDENTIAL

CMH.D DISSE

---

