# 104-10192-10030

## Page 1

104-10192-10030

REPORT COVER SHEET

JINNAVE

Henry J. SLOMAN!

PORTE OFFICER

SECRET

0818 IF MERLE

11 October 1965

•Fu-7593

PROJ.

5'CE CR.

ANOT- & AMTAUR 2

BACHORDUNO DATA AND CO

TYPIC

Hoctor FORTUN

in AMOT roport DD 1002g.

1 and first sentonce of pard 1965, from Joiso

15 Septombor

GUTIERREL ULID..

Paras. 2'and I and the second sontonco of.

• FORTUN In AMOT report DD-1622 datod 29 Soptomber 1905,

from Orlando BOSCH Avila.

Para. 3 from Enrique ESTRADA Prado

3.n MOT report DD-1615 dated 22 Septomber 1965.

ANTAUD-2 In AMOT roport DD-1013 dated 21 soptember ies from

BOSCH.

Tho Fiold Commont is basod on UFG 7587.

RI:

Indox for JMWAVE:

QUERALT, Roger

DPOB:

Sucty of toroigh rolations of MIRR in Puurto

Rico.

Close friond

01 Garcia-Godoy, Pios of DRe

Group 1:

Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONAL:

EMTRIES BELOW NEED NOT HE PILLED IN I PUPLICATEN IN ACCUMPANYINO REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AREACE

Miami reps of:

1 - 11q5.

00/0-16-10

MICKOFILMED

ОСТ: 111055

MWA.R68d4Y

State

FBI

I&NS

Customs

USCG

COUNTHY

BÚSIECT

1467

- 00

U88

PNEVIOUR

EDITION.

go.

OF ENCLOSURES

REFI

CS COPY:

PADA

HID

анс оркА

MI PAGES

19-300-50

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

'Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

FIELO INFORMATION REPORT

::.

...

COSFIDENTIAL

CONTRULLED DISSEN

Cour Cuba

REFISRINIO

sualci, l. Activitios and Plans

of tho

Insurroctional Movement for

3.

Rovolutionary Rocovery (MIRR)

Allogod Unity of Counterrevo

lutiouary Groups in Cuba.

DATE OF RISORI 11 Octobor 1965

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

PLACES

DATIANC

9 to 26 September 1965

inited 'States

Miant

(15 to 29 Soptembor 1965)

decoratin

SOURCE.

UT G 7593

D:04Pi1

*l'*

A member of a group

of Cuban enigres trained in the techniques

of intormation colloction, The group has providod usoful re-

ports since 1961.

1.

On 9 Soptonber 1965 Jorgo Gutierroz Ulla, press socretary of

the Moviniento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(MIRR, Insurroctional Movesent for Revolutionary Recovory) said

that Orlando Bosch Avila,

head of the Miah,

1s very optinistic

over the designation of Hector Garcia-Godoy Cacores

as Provi

sioual Prosident of the Dominican Republic.

According to Bosch,

Rogor Queralt,

secretary of foreign relations of tho MIRR in

Puerto,

1s a close friend of Garcia-Godoy's.

Queralt drafted

congratulating Gardin-Godoy

a lotter, which was signed by Bosch' queralt expect nesistance

ou his appointment.

Both Bosch and

from Garcia-Godoy for the MIRR.

2.

3.

On 26 September Bosch said that the MIRR 1a regaining streugth.

and that it is buying all of the arms that aro

boins sold by

varlouB

emigro organizations.

No commented that it la becoming

soro difficult to got arus in the United States.

Ho said that

bofore the end

of 1965 the MIRR will carry out a "chaln of nctious

which will make Fidol Castro Ruz tremblo"

, and will raise the

hopes of the enigres.

Sometime before 22 Septomber, the MIRR bought 200 rounds of 20mm

ammunition,

and orderod 200 rounds of 75mm ammunition from

Service Armaments Company, 689 Bergen Boulevard, Ridgeflold,

New Jersey, a company fron which the like has bought armanents

in tho past.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLILSD DISSEM

CiSTRiFUTCH

HUS RI SOPY

---

## Page 3

5.

6.

CONTROLSO PISSSA

UFG-1503

-2 s

On 21 septenter bosch said that the Srecutive Condiltoo of tho

WIRR had

"approved the tdon" of attacing a ship wiled trades

with Cuba.

Ho sald that the attac

place anywhoro in

tho world,

will in soon, and my take

in a port or. on

the

high soar.

Porsonnel and equipront which is oulsido of the Unlted Statos

will be usod for

this

operation.

After the attack, at a prose

conforonco, tho Mill will "declare war" on all countrles which

At. tho press conference bosch will presont a

"logal cosplaint" insisting that the Mikk has the "right of

bolligorencot to oporate fros sorritory of the laltod States.

Bosch added that the MIRK delegation In Venezuela will try to

gain tho support of the port workers of Venezuela la the

"doclaralion

of war."

Bosch

sald on 26 Soptomber that ho expected

ment from Cuba soon

to receivo a docu

which would "give proof" that clandestine

groups in

Cuba havo agreed to unite into a single front.

MIRR will be nanod to represent the new group abroad bocause

the organtzation in Cuba knows that the MIRR is not a "phanton

organization", that it has not "sold isolf", and that it takos

guidance from

no one "who is not strictly Cuban,"

when

the

document is recolved it will be announced at a press

conference.

According to Guiterrez; the MiRR has

received "considerable"

money from people in

Tampa, New York,

• California and Puerto

said that he will soon solicit nondy

• 'from the

Cuban sinicipal organizations (in exile) to help the MIRr

out its

Fiold Commont.

A recent report from an indepondent source ro

ported on a

mooting between representativos of tho MIRR and

the Asociacion para la Reconstruccion Econonica Cubana (AREC,

Association

for tho Economic Reconstruction of Cuba) on 15

September 1965.

The pu pose of

the meeting,

called by the

MIRR, was to ask the AREC for money

to finance MIRR operations,

to which the AREC agrood. At the meeting Bosch spoko of the

action plans of tho MIRR, in general terms,

including an attack

on a foreigu vessol.

He also spoko

on the

unity of the

counterrevolutionary groups in Cuba.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

