# 104-10529-10053

## Page 1

104-10529-10053

Life.

DTRICION

FRICA MEXICO CITY

•ACTION:: 1W

INFO:

11!10

DCOS, CA 2; CA/MES, LA/ PROP, CA/O 4, 01/0P5;

os,!

2, 1

VR.

Roc: -3/50E, 002*

NOV 27 80382 63. iN tec

5EC3E T 2623017

DIN' INFO LOND CITE MEXI 7889

iNTEL

7, 11

SUPDATA SOURCE LIFIRE

AS5D:2623817:

REPORT, CLASS SECRET HAS 8075 MEXICO POLAND.

SUBJECT DEPARTURE OF MEXICAN DELEGATES TO MEETING OF THE WORLD PEACE CONCIL

DO 25, NOVENDER 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 26 NOVEMBER 63 APR 21

SOURCE PERSONS (B) WITH GUOD ACCESS TO THAVEL INTO.

NO SEPARATLI CAULL STRICUT

REGI

18,

PACY.

191/3/4200

TOCS

RECEDENC

DATE OISTRIDUTED

1963

119117

CATED ON

¿LIAISON:

ExCE

REPCODUCTION CY OTHER THAN ISSUING CARICE ASS

---

## Page 2

TINTUTHANON SETTIN

CENTRAL INTELLIOINCE AOENCY

EUASSIFICATTORI - DISSEVIMATION CONTROLS

COUNTEY

SUBICY

SECRET

(57-674-80806-pmp.

MEXICO

UPARTURE OF MEXICAN DELEGATES TO MEETING:

ÓT WORLO PLACE COUNCIL

REPORT NO.

TDCS -3/566,002

DATE DISTR: ?? NOVEMBER 196}

•DOCCIDENCE

. PEFERERNCES

DAIt UE

INFO.

PLACE S

• DATE ACO.:

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

F0623

REIC REPORINO:

MMM-201S

THIS iS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT I TENTATIVE.

PERSONS (B) WITH GOOD ACCESS TO TRAVEL INFORMATION:

1. ON 25 NOVEMBER 1963 ALONSO AGUILAR MON EVERDE: DR. GUILLEAVO

MONIAO ISLAS; AND TERIANDO CARMONA, ALL NATIONẦL LEADERS OF. THE

MOVIMIENTO DE LIBERACION NACIONAL (MN- NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENIS

LEFT MEXICO CITY BY AIR ON SABENA AIRLINES FOR LUNDON ON ROUTE TO

WARSAW

2. FIELD COMMENT: AGUILAR, MONTANO, AND CARMONA, WILL ATTENDIA/

NEETING: OF THE WORLD PEACE COUNCIL (WPC) IN WARSAW, POLAND. MT

WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT MARIA ELENA VAZQUEZ COMEZ, MEXICAN

COMMUNIST AND AIDE: TO GENERAL LAZARO CARDENAS DEL RIO,

PROMINENT PRO-CONNIST FORMER PRESICENT GRIMEXICO, WAS ALSO

SECRET

ASSIFIOARION - DIS

TELECRI

380008 79д

2a1: 00 F2

INFORMATION REDORY TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

SECRET

suas 03/566,002

68623

EXPECTED TO ATTEND THE WRC MEETING IN WARSAW HOWEVER, VAZEUEZ GONER

NOT TRAVEL WISH THE THIS ABOVE MENTIGNED CERICAN SEESENTES.

3. FIELD DISSEMESTATE FOr CINCSO.

END: OF.: MESSACE

SECRET

---

