# 104-10006-10256

## Page 1

1104-7006-102561

FROM: (Requesters name) O

BRANCH

TO

TUBE

ROOM

RID/ INDEX

DT.3

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID / ANALYSIS

GT-7

RID/201

DW- 6

ROOM

BANGE NO.

EXTENSION

DATE

INITIALS

SECRET

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/MIS

GT. 6

RID/INDEX

DT - 5

SURNAME

GREGORY

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA. ALIASES

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

Peter

Bose en Russia

SEX DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

ITIZENSHO

V.S.

PRESIDENES. TEXAS

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALI, CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b)

corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol

oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201. CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

aperture

295309

(a) _ Consolidate into

201-

(b) I Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRiCTION CEl any)

OTHER INTERESTEO DESKS OR STATIONS

ESSTENEM

TYES

INO

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and

those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional'in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

RID

Vote 2. Information concerning foreig

ublic personalities (except mili

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

×7997.

DESK

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

GREGORY, PETER

SEX M DOB ?

074-006-368/03

CIL USA

TO A 5-731 AD

4 820

PARK AVE

NEW YORK, N.Y. /ZEL. BU-84132/

TANDWRITING SAMPLE. UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT OF

LAW AT COLUMBIA UNIV. PLANNED TRAVEL TO MOSCOW

AND LENINGRAD '61 SUMMER.

PHYS DESC PROVIDED

V

GREGORY, PETER

SEX M DOB ?

CIT USA

201-289248

DST 11242

08 DEC 63

P2 %.

OCC PETROLEUM ENGINEER

A USA, TEXAS, FORT WORTH

RE CONTACT WITH SUB OF

/201-289248/

1 814 656

HERO

---

