# 104-10408-10365

## Page 1

110410408-10365]

CL:: ED MESSAGE (

HECRET

• DIRECTOR!

ROM

CHON.

IFO

..:: 1: (SC/LIta)

DCI, D/L..: as, ilir, C/C1, C/FI 2, C/NE 3, VR

ROUTING

POC/ERIBINESI

05C

18

R

FRIORITY

5 DEC 63 1N 7 3 9 32

15257

PRIORITY

it .

MoNt CITE

KAPOL) RED..

ANGMION

1 09::: 10010 to 0004001 11r: SECRETARY SOVIET EMBASSY

MADE SPECT CHEET IN PAOBAION A INTESE HAS TO DIRECT PADBAYON/I

TO SAID. •TIS TO PRESIDENT JONNSON, CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN AND -

ASSASOLA: ME PRESIDENT KENNELS, DEPARATE TELEGRAMS WERE TO BE

SENT IT.

DARE WE MUS MORON: CONS TO WHICH PADEATON

•AFFILiATES

ador SloGesteD irrit AGiCCIATION Of. DEROCRATIC

LAWYERS, F:::M::0N Cr

FEDERATION OF UNITED

NATIONS OF THIONO PAOBATOET PAOCHEN ADDING

Lime: T011SG, WIfel LoGote! APPROVED. PAGDANOV SAID

HE ACTING •

.:? modend. ! AND THAT HE WOULD PAY COST

.:. FOREGOING RECEIVED 4'

DEC 8: 12

Paintying

if!!

i :

* FRIENDSHIP BETWEEN

IO BE DEVELOPING INTO

Document Number 327-708

for FOlA Review on'

MAY 1976

it este: To Wiste: ares, flate and FEI is

sen to clutte

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

5 DEC63

CONDUCTED ON? 4 MAY 1976

E_ IMPDET CL DY C132 CA

•* E IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

i

MANA DIE

rescutor Beards

IN 73932

_ PAGE 2

...

Malicisils

io Pri

IF T4I5

PHAT OF MOM: - "IDE CAMPAIGN ORSANIZED BY RIS.

•"T: iN UFOS": IPPONTUVITY TO IDENTIFY LOCAL RIS

COLLA3OR

HOS "AY".

FOR SEi"

AND FERNAPS WORK EACH TO SOVIET CASE OFFICERS.

T:! COSGIBILITY BY ATTEMPTING DETERMINE WHO RESPONCIBLE

:40eS÷ SUCH AS DESCRIBED PARA ONE, FROM OTHEP. COUNTRIES.

HUGUANOV UNAWARE ON INVESTISATING COMMISSION HEADED

BY JAIRE: ¡ DOMI THAT DALLAS POLICE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT CASE CLOSED"

•WAS PIGL.: ADLESS OF BOGDANOY THINKING, MAIN POINT IS HE ACTING

". IF ::lE REGUEST HQS SEND NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF

SENDING TIANS DEMANDING PROBE.

SECR :

---

