# 104-10213-10009

## Page 1

104-10213-10009

in unitiate

1H Du DR

CASSET TO

DIRE D9.

#-ДІД ФО

40.

DIE MISD

018. P0 GRANCH O

7853

AC710N

100

CLRSSIFICD MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

IS SECRET

BESOMUSIT HOTEFIED

REPROOUETIDI PROKIBITED.

C.>

AVANCE COPY

TRID COPY

U'E

7 3 neg

с 835

SECRET 041107Z

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO

CITE 1032

'KAPOX KEYWAY PERUMEN UNSNAFU AMLAS

REF A. DIR 15932

AJa 65082939

Б.

1342 (N76A24

C. DIR 14S?2

= 1. SUBS REFS CONTACIED

JISNAFU/S ON 25 MAY, TO NEAUEST

AID, SUBSEQUENTLY RE. USED ON CUT LADENOS. IS OBTAINING

SPANISH VISA AS REPORIED PEF : •

I ADDITIO: TO PER 9, FOLLOWING

POINTS DISCUSSED WITH MIRRLE=S NO HAH

THO MEETS WITH SUBJ ON 25 MAY, FINST AT

PSET SITA LISUATU/S AND SECONE = A HOTEL NAPOLEON

TO GIVE SUBJ

ANSWER O: VISA•

2. "SURI STATED HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH KUBARK 1S TIMES AND

IS TIMESTRAD DISSOLVED RELATIONSHIP. STATED KUBARK LAST ATTEMPTED

CONTACT HIM NEW YORK VIA ODURGE TUS MONTHS AGO AND THAT HE THEN

ADREED TO CONTACT.

SUBJ STATED HUT INTERESTED IN CONTACTS WITH LOW-

LEVEL TYPES, ONLY HIGHEST PEPRIE LEVELS. SUBJ STATED MAD MANY

HIGH LEVEL FRIENDS TN PEPRIME SOUT:" NAMED BOESY KESHEDY AS ONE

UHO ONÇE FELPED HIM OUT OF JAM.

LATOOK PART MANY SAIDS

---

## Page 2

"3. SUIS STOrE iM SANE VEIN OF DISCOUTENTUENT OF "NO ACTION

AD OF KADN CROUP, SPECIFICALLY LATILE GUSPORTES, AS DID ALLASI/3,

AS REPORTED REF B, SUBJ STATED WOULD HAVE GUSPORT/!

KICKED OUT (FRESLIABLY KUBARK) AS 500:1 AS POSSIBLE. SUBJ AND

LISIIAFU/S, AS KELL AS AMLASH/S, HAVE REPEATED EXPRESSED THEIR

HIGH REGARD OF BELTEF iN ALASH/: AU: THAT ANLASHIS IS IN POSIMEN,

SUZU AID ÜNSHAFU/S SFRAX OF HIN IN SAFE RESPECT AS ATLASI/I.

SAID THEY ARE NOW RISKING LIVES AND ONLY

BAY TILY MILL GET OUT OF PRUNE WILL BE STEAL FAINE AND ATTEHPT

SSCAPE, LACHAFU/S KAS STATED SEVERAL TIMES, SINCE APRIL BOTH TO

CLONDEN AND MIRALEES, THAT "SCHETHUNG BIG" GOING TO SUPPEN IN

*;

HEXT TIREE MONTHS. SUBJ AND UNSHAFU/S BOTH STATED TIME IS RIPE

*FOR ACTION.

4. SUBJ ARRIVED IN PARI FROM LOND ON 21 MAY. WHEN MIRRLEES

ASKED SUBJ WHY HIS KUBARK CONTACTS IN PBPRIME MAD NOI PROVIDED

NECESSARY ARRANGIENTS FOR VISA, SUSS STATED HIS BUSINESS MADR NOT

SUBARK SPONSORED AND KUBARK NOT ANIRE OF IT. SUES INSISTED

IT IMPERÃTIVE HE ARRIVE MADR 23 MAT TO SPEAX TO "IMPORIANT HENSER

THEIR CHOUP. - SUBJ SAID ALSO SHOULD NAVE BEEN TO ZRIETAL BY 25

•?:

-=

.....

12402--

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HY SU• IF KUBARK

COULD NOT OBTAIN VISA HE WOULD HAVE TO RETURN

PERPITE AND FROM THERE RETURN MAUR LATER DATE. SAID THIS COMPLI

CATES HIS PLANS. SUBJ SOUGHT KEARK ASSIETAICE UNLY AFTER HOPIAL

VISA APPLICATIO! DETERMINED IO TAKE TOO LO!1O

WHEN MIRFLEES HAD SECOND WERE WITH SUEN TO CONFIRY RESUTS

OF ESK WITH STOCKWOOD RE VISA MIRHLEES FIRST TOER SUEd SHE WOULD

CHECK WITH HER BOSS BUT CERTAIN COULD ME DENIED GE EECURITY GROUNDS>

TWO FRIEND OF SUBU APPEARED: MAÜ AMNES "ERRAK" APPROX 25-27

STATED MAD KNOWN SUBS LONG TIME. SIRE "DANIELLE" CORES dE DIS

SUBJ PROPOSED MIRRLEES JOIN GROUP FOR MINDER E1TXX3E1FEE DICLAYES

OFFEE AS HAD OTHER OLANS.

GO FPOM MBOVE, IT OBVICUS THOPE TOO CFFECT STUARE ME YUBARY

CO:TACT WITH SUSJ. SUBJ'S LINE CE TROUGME HACTLY, ALMOST TO SANE

WORDS, AS THAT DE ATLASHA, UNSSA: U/S.

7o REGARDING PARA TWO REF AL

_NOT AWARE COMMENT FAIU SUSUICE

IN GROUPS NOT ALREADY CONNECTED JITH ALLASH ONE. FROM HERE PROE-

LEM SEEMS BE THAT AMLASH CIRCLE IS WIDE AND EACH NEW FRIEND OF SHO

WE LEARN SEEMS TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF PLA!.

SECRET

---

