# 104-10529-10337

## Page 1

104-10529-10337

P. I. BRAUBIEN

OCI

7454

14. OCT. 63

CLASSINED MAES 229E

S BCRET

-1..1.

AS BELOT

152c1 53 26 47 3

ROUTINE

BOUTINE ::

/I9T

0D/;

INFO

CITE DIR

75476

PEBAND

NEAR BAST - 'AFRICA BRIN

(NOVORY IN SLANTE)

1. ALGERIA-MOROCCO:

Lose diss tian or sassan

ITS PRESINCE IN BONDER ARBA BRINE TINDOUS AND COLONS BACHAR

CLATTY DOTE PARAT AND ASGIRLS, ALLOGE SON OLDES APPANGNTLS

WENT TO AVOID ALL OUT VAN,

//ACCORDINO TO CAN KITTIL, KING BABBAS & PREBORAL MILIT AD

DISER, ADDITIONAL MOROCCAN TADOPS ARE MOVINO TWARD POSITIONS WHICE

VERE IELD BY ALGERIANS DURINO CLASSES CE 8 CCT., LOTTART MOORYDAY

ASSERTED ON 10 OCTAVE WILL TARON TENT OUT, AND VE VILL STORT

ALGERIANS MORE EFFECTIVRLY, THAN FRENCH EVER DID. /

BE BIG SAS ISOLATED BARBER DISSTOPS IN TAS BANYLIE, BUT

I DOES NOT CONTROL COURTRYSTDE THIRE. BORROVER, EVEN BEFORE

CLASKES WITH MOROCCO, BERBEA REVOLT HAD AGGRAVATED HIS DIPPiCULTIES

S C RET.

AUIMINTICATINC

Cony Na.

---

## Page 2

i indian

TAO INDEX

CLASSIFIED MESS

38C8 89

5

REFERRED

учас ко.

INFO

• CITE. DIR

16476

ORDECAN

WITH MIT. WITN

BORDES WITLE SIA CONSOL OVIN MILIT 18 SO MANY.

DON IS PANT, HUNAN'S HOAR ADITIVE POSTERS SUSHIS: THAT

RIVAL, CHUEDERS LATTERS T

FICT

, AD IT

VE CONNONATTON DELINEATELY.

COMMUNIET CANKA - ALTIRIAN CI

MY CHIA TO OUTE

ALGERIA A S60 MILLION LOSS TING THEISES-YESE CHRIS FOS AS 985

UNDISCLOSED DIE

1909Y

7O ALABRIANS

DONTO T LAST 113 OPINICH TO GUPPORT ALIAN WITHORALIET

INT ACTIVITY NULTO LATCH 11 SCOP 0333 310C T $100 MILLIO

CREDIT TO ALGERIA, PRIPREO MY BELL FAVT INCLUDED SORT CASH IN ITS

57 ONE 17 MS 1A BLALAN ARRANGENTS PITE ONCE AFRICAN COUA-

TRIES USER HAS AVOIDED SUCH A PRACTICE IN ITS AID PROGRAMS,

INDICATIONS CHICONS INTRLZSTID IN ALGERIAN PETROLSON.

CAC"

SOCIET

life wind

A THE SSUING OFFICES PROHIBITED:

AVIHINTICATINS

SIFICEN

Core ido

---

## Page 3

LAND. 13SA

SBCBEI

1222015

Hold

Clit519 75476

3. USE-ALABRA: NO MILIT AID AGEST HAS BERN ANNOUNCED

BY ALGERIA OR TIB OSA' BUT SO ARRASON? DOS MATRED HAY HAvE

BEKH MADE DURING DES MIN# BOURIDIKHUR'S RECENT VISIT TO MOSCON.

SORR 450 ALGERIANS ARE NOU BICHIVING MILIT TRAINING IN SOVIET

BLOC AND BOSCON MAY REGARD PRIBSIT IMPROVED STATE ON RELATIONS AS

PROVIDING A GOOD OPPORTUNITI TO BEGIN SUPPLYING ALARIA VITE

MODERN SQUI PRINT.

4:: SOMALIRKPURLIC: - UB8R:' (/SOTALI COUT CH 10 OCT DICIDED

TO ACCEPT A S28 MILLION SOVIET ONES O9 MILIT ABBISTANCE, LOCORDING

TO A ESCA SONALI OFFICIAL, AND ROPES PUIS VILL DOT TURE PROSPECTS

FOR RICEIVIIG SUCK AID FROL THE WEST.

JUST BIPORE RATING AT WHICH THIS DECISION HAS HADS, PRISIN

ANDTRASCID SAID THAT ZAS COVE FOULD DIE SOVIET IMIROCTORS FOR A

SHORT WHILE AND WOULD DEPERD ON IGYPT FOR MAJOR TRAINING AND

TACHTCLAL ADICE. ARDIRASCID SAID THAT AR BAD REJSCTED CHINESE

ASSISTAICE

THE PRIMIT BXPRESSEHOCE THAT WEST WOULD CONDUCT A MAJOR

MILIT ASSIS JANCE PROGRAM STMULTANECUSLY WITH TAX BLOC. DeSPITS

SECRET

ACRON SOON

NATHENSEDING ORNCES PRONTEM ED

Crey tia

---

## Page 4

ORIG

CLESSIFIED. ME

tire

DEFERRIS

& ROUTINE

INFO :. :::

75476

SONALI HOPES, GARAN AND ITALIAN MILIT, DID PLANS ARR LIKEN TO BE

ADVISELY ANTECTED: DO OTICIALS LICITRA TOLD TIATTISE SORALI

PRES MAT AM DAZ VAM LOVIES VORS COMOREE COMILE O CHANCIES

OR GECURIO STOMPICAL GISTERS LATTY ASSERACE, AND EAT TENLY,

VINCE DO PARATIVES ANTONIO A O ELLIO THE TRE POSES,

VOULD TAKE SUCH A SOMALI DECISION SENIOUBLY. BORN IS ENGIN

TO BS OPPOBED TO EXTENDING AID IP LOCADIECTO SACCEPTS ANY COMANIST

12.202

ILIZA EYFASSISTICE. I/

CONCO: ADOULA GOUT IS PACING GRONING OPPORITION PROM

CONGOLESE LASCA, LEADIN

THE LADERS OF FOUR UNIORS, INCLUDING TARKE LARGEST,

STA T3

THAT THEY VILL HOT SIT ON PLANNID SPICIAL CONTASION ID DRAFT A

NES CONCO CONCTITETSON VILESS COVT 1S CHAED. UNIONS ARE AR

PAREYTIS VILLING TENT PRES CASAVURO OR PRESSER ADOSLA, OR BOTH,

RAIN, IF THE REST Of CABINET IS DISKISSED.

USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTS THAT UNIONS ARE NOT CONSIDERING

A GENERAI. STRIXED TO KEFACH THEIR DEMANDS, BUT NOTES: THAT THRIR

ATTITUDES ARE MENING

TAS UNIONS ARE DEONSTRATING GREATER UNITY

"DINATINO

054.10.1, RO

SECRET!

THE ISSUING PRICES PRONIBITED

OFFICIA

¡Coor No,

---

## Page 5

BECRET

- Da

110-11.0

iNiO

CIT oR 75476

AND BOUNCE RLIEVES THAT SITUATION COULD CHANGE RAPIDLY. LABOR LEADERS

HAVE SAID TRIR RANI AND FILE IS AS FID. UP WITH THE GOVT AS IT HAS

VITE PARLIANT, WHICH KABAVURU DISMISSED ON 39 SPFT.

PRUSTRATID BY RAMPANY INPLATION, FOOD SHORTAGES, AND VISI

PLOYUINT, UNIONS HAVE LONG CALLED FOR ECON REFORE AD HEROVAL OF

HIGH LIVING, INCIPEYNT AND CORRUP CABINET MINSTERS. A GANERAL

STRIKS OVER CIVIL SKIVICE SALARIES HAS OILT MARROWLY AVERTI

14 LA AOQUET, AND OMEONIDS STRIKE OF TRACERS OVER HOPATT

ON SALARIES DECAN ON 7 OCT." (CONI)

DA: TO HAS INCHASE A8 COURICE OF THE

FAILURE OF LOUDOT COMTITUTIONAL TALES TO BRACH AGRERENT DURING

THE KAYAN OPPOSITION PARTY SURPSCTS THAT WITHIN A FEU bAYS

BELTAIN VILL LIPOSE A SOLUTION FRAT WILL WRAND THE DOSITION CE TH

O HORITY TRIBES. THEY BELLIVE THAT COLONIAL SECRETARY SANDYS WILL

KET PRIFE HINISTER: KERYATTA' 8 DEMANDS TO ASE PROCEDURES POR ANTHD

ING TRE CONSTITUTION AND TO ANANT MORE AUTHORITY OVER POLICE AND

CIVIL AUTHORITY TO THN CANTRAL GOVERNMINT

do died one - tri.

05+9

Copy Mia,

---

## Page 6

CLASSIER MENSE

UNIT

I: WINE?

-10

INFO

-B-

DI FED PI-D

ROUTINE

CiTE DIR

75476

ALARIED OPPOSITION LEGEBLATONS IN HAIICHY RESOLVED ON 9 OCT

TO POSM THEIR BOTOSS TITO A SAPARATE SATR, DUT HAVE OUNCH BOS-

I THING CAN LOT HIM COUNTO

BRITISH AUTHORITIRN BAYE, TAXHE PRECAUTIONAL, ARCHERTY SASURES

AND THE CITA COVERT IS CONFIDAM IT CAN FAMI AM PIETANCES

SPICIAL POLICE RAVE DERS DEPLOTS IN TIS POTERIAL SPLAYE

BE VALL PET AN AEICH TOONS AN ON MEN (CONT)

POSITARE EXPORTS PERSIST OF COUP BLOTTING BY ANTI-

BAATE POLIT AND UNLIT BLENTS

THE GOVY REAINS ALERT AXD

PROBABLY HAS PENETRATED TES POLITICAL GROUPINGS, THOSE ACTIYITRES

IT RAS SEVERELY TABASSES AD FOSSACTE, MILITARY DISSIDKFTS MAY

HAVE CRATER YRENDON OY ACTION, BUT THEKA CAPABILITIES HAVE BREN

GARNED BY THE EXFUSION CA BAATH PART? BIBERS INTO TAB OFFICER

* MASSAGE

Macada

THAN THE ISSEINE GENICES PROMIRITED,

Copy bya.,

---

