# 104-10128-10229

## Page 1

104-10128-10229

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.J. 20505

75-7201

15 DEC 1375

The Honorable Frank Church

Chairman

Salect Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with ilespect to Intelligence

Activities

United States Senate

Washiagtos, D. C. 20510

Dear Ms. Chairman:

We have irformation irom a relizble source that the Second

Secretary of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations is in Washingtos

on the basis of special instructions from Premier Fidel Cast=o io

contact "friends of Cuba." This individual has said that he is in

search of sweaty names withheld from the report on assassinations.

¡ is occuline ius anyone uno has ceon the grant regnat do anyone

Trio lerois what rames were deleted. He is offering $25, 000 foi each

name aid says the person who comes up with the names wouid also

get a statue aracted in Havana. He hinted he has tentativel; icentifiec

ten unpublished gaines and orly needs ten more. This information has

been passed to the FBI.

I would bope in vics; of this inforraation that you will take all

appropriate measures to ensure that deletud names do not fall into the

hands of the Cubans.

Sincerely,

/s/ Bil

W. E. Colb.

Director

81399? 469 95622 83

18008.4

SEX: E CED. 11. E9921723538

Date imee sible to Meteza pe

DDO: WEN:g:06 Bec. 073)

Distributio=:

Orig - addressee

1 - DCI

1 - DDCI

1 - C/Rer Staff

1 - DDO Reg

I - C/FR

3- SA/DDO

Tony me

o this at thi

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Names to be ictained

in SSC Report

Williám Harvey : Lumumba/Gustro

_Sidney Gottrich - Castro/Lumumba

- Robert Maheu - Castro

Johnny Roselli - Castro

Santos Iratticante - Castig.

General Valenzgela • Chile/Schneider

General Viaus - Chile/Schneidog

Henry Deanborn - Trujillo

-FLou Cóndin - Diem

_Bronson Tweedy - Lumumba

=J. C. King - Castro 'Y

william

bros achilit

risine

amenaras:

Distrati

Names to be deleted

from SSC Report

(A/COS Saigon during

Diem coup)

(COS Ciudad Trujilio)

David Phillipa (Chief Chile Tasie

Foice) Schncider

Fanoy Varona - Castro

Juan Orta - Castro

Nestor Sanchez - Castro

(COS Leopoldville/Kinsha

to show as 'Hedgman)

Colonel, Wimort (MA Santlago Chile)

Justin O'Donnell (10 show as Michael

.J, Mulroney) Lumumba

Executivó Action/ Cast:

Samuel Halpern • Castro

Castro

Castro

Trujillo

Othor Chilean officers

6/0V

---

