# 104-10182-10119

## Page 1

104-10182-10119.

Drappad interet

in Sly

ост 59

SS02T

RETURNTO CIA

Background Usa. Only

Do Not Reproduce

13 Detaber 1959 .

MEMORANDUL FOR: TES RECORD

SUBJBCT 3

Astckell L. WE? BELI

1. Subject phoned me on 25 September to report that a super-

she apposition to Cast. in Cuba.

decide on action to be inken against u.JiRo.

2. Subject said he was invited to atterd by Jorge BETRARI, one

of the leaders of the grasp. also attending will he one saliciel

lunez (fru), who lives on his yacht in Mlanl.

Subjest said they are

Interested in him because of his contacts with the worldwide Inter-

national Service, the rews agency with which he is affiliated.

sairi the Cuban opposition does not intend to let SwF0 harvest the

Lext sugar crop...

terminate sabject or sut him to work.

shouid be terrinate: for the followire reasons:

His motivation 1s obviously to use the jency as ? sours

i financine ¿or his personal business ssreses

19 an inerican his access to full infarstion on Gibe

evolutiorary activities will alweys be ¿inite

in 2 Detober I talked with sub'eco bu phone.

flings: 1125-7916

1.8=

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.-2 =

Belglie tryine to buy arms for the joninican Republic.

said he had been phoned this incarastler by Manuel FIRESTONE, who

was there, inore the equipment wanted are six hundred silkle-talkie

He said that Policarpy (obviousis Policarpo SOLER) was

killed because he convinced PEalizi to cooperate with william alex-

ander Mazein, wis was acting as a double agent for CAstro.

6. I told Subject that aiser due consideration of the risks to

him, the cost in time and effort to hin, and the risks and expenses

Involved for the igency, balanced against assets generally available

throughout the intelligence community and his (jubject'e) access to

additional irformation, it had beez decided not to give him any

operationa? tasks at this time. I esphasized that this was no

reflection on his character, bus that ve felt that in the balance be

could not do enough to varrant using him at this time.

I suggested

that since the bulk of the matters which come to his attentlon in

connection with the Cuban patter take place in the Unlted States, he

should report such information to the FBI. Subject appesred to

understard that ve would not use his and expressed his regret. Tie

conversation erded on a friendly rate.

Tomas J. TIOres.

il!/III/A0

T.J/par

1.44

---

