# 104-10142-10056

## Page 1

104-10142-10056

'INTERNAL USE ONLY:

Journal - Offico of Legislative Counsel

Wednesday - 9 February 1977

CONFIDENTIAL COCA

J-7

H. S. C

A

77-002612

Page?

Chrone

4. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Mike Madigan,

Minority Cuunsel, Senate Select Conmitice on Intelligence, called

lo inquire about the status of the Committee's request for information

on Panama. I told him I was attempting to set up an interview with

the Chief of Latin America Division fo: Friday. Madigan said that

is what he wanted to request.

5. (Confidential - PLC) LIAISON Mei with R. A. (Gus) Edwards,

Administrative Assistant to Representative Paul S. Trible, JEe RePaI

and discussed arrangeinents for Mr. Tzible io meei with

OTI. Agency officer in charge ofL

_ to discuss the Agency's.

activities at the facility and to invite him down. Edwards had served

on the staff of former Representative Thomas N. Downing (D., Va.):

Mi. Trible's predecessor, and handled Agency matters concerning

Mr. Trible's schedule is very tighi and Edwards will call.

The meeting will be a future Thursday, the day of the week that

Pisits Headquaiters. The visit to

will probably

be on

a Friday since Mr. Trible returns to his District each weekend.

Wes Finer, OTR, was advised.

6. (Confidential - PL.C) BRIEFING Accompanied Doug George,

OWI, at a brisfing of Chairman Olin E. league (D., Texas), House

Science and Technology Committee, which was conducted in his hospital

room at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center. Mr. George covered the

Soviet anti-satellite prograin and recent Soviet space developments.

(See Memorandum for the Record prepared by Mr. George:) Mr. Teaguc

was most appreciative of the efforts made for the briefing and expiessed

a very high regard and support for the Agency. He asked if we had any

irformation as to an energy shortage in the Soviet Union and if they have

any breeder reactors for energy use. I told him I would check and get

the information to him.

7. (Unclassified - PLC) ADMINISTRATIVE DELIVERIES

Delivered to Jacqueline Hess, Flouse Select Committee on Assassinatione

staff, the latest package of Agency documents tollcerning the

assassination of President Kennedy which were teleased under couri

order in the POI case of Mr. Fensterwald.

20118

5/pl

INTERNAL N35 OMLY

p9218

---

