# 104-10310-10010

## Page 1

104-10310-10010

EIDS ONLY

30 August 1963

636721

DD/P. 3-4494

US 9:1

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) Meeting, Situation Reom at the

White House, 29 Anguat 1963, 1430

l. In attendance were MI. McGeorge Bundy, Mr. Olipatric,

Mr. Ales Johnson, MI. Tom Parrott and, for appropriate Items,

Colonel Steakley of JRC and MI. Bruce Cheever of CIA.

2. The monthly recomaisaance forecasts for both NRO and

DOD were approved in toto, although Secretary Johnnon withheld

replenishing the Laos bank (aince we still have a credit of one)

unt11 he had been briefed by Lundabl as to juet how affective thia

photography was.

He appears to have some doubt that we are getting

anything that's worthwhile.

3. On the problem of negotladone for an Indian base it was

the consensus that we should not approach Sarit at the present time

for use of Takhli unlons there were overriding intelligence require-

mente approved by USI3 at the neut meeting. Gllpatric showed me

a memorandum from General Carroll urging that we get the photos

and after the meeting I noted a somewhat less enthunlastle urging

fren Sheldon. While the Special Group did not seem to be enthusi

antle about maling the lighte, they agreed to withhold judgment

pending & USIB reaction from the meeting next Thuraday, Please

have it placed on the agenda for diecussion.

There was some discuation on the support of autonomous

anti-Castro groupe and some concern as to what reactions we

might espect from Castro. Mr. Fundy anted that thia item be held

over for the meeting neit weak at which dime he would want to

obtain MI. NdeCone's viewe aince MI. McCone had atated that he

wanted to take another look at the matter. The Group particularly

Johnson) did not seem to bo enthusiastic about using a Britleh-owned

island without telling the British. There were warm remarke made

about MI. Pawley's capabilities although Bundy expressed some

---

## Page 2

13-00000

BIES CAY

concern that since Pawley had been such & staunch supporter of

the Agency and of any Governmental activities regardlese of

party lines, he might not be the proper man to use ae s cutout.

Please see that thia item la placed in next week'e Special Grou

(5112) aganda and that Mr. McCone has formulated his views.

3. Financial support for the inetitute for Political Education

in sinn Jose, Costa Rica, was approved without comment.

The minates of the 15 August meeting were approved and

I Informed them that the aldewinder missile for the delenaive

armament for GROSBIAK aireralt had already been compromised

so there une so problem there.

1. The enly dlacusaton on the covert action pregram in

for FY '64 WIAMI. Bundy's comment that for the ilsat tine the

Prenident had not questioned the magnitude of the expenditures.

8. MI. Cheever reported en the two approved sabotage

operations and Jehnsen questioned whether the leaving bebind of

equipment might be a form of subversion. Cheever assured him

that lote ol people leave behind equipment, particularly when they

are getting thot at and he did not think there was a security problem

here.

9. The Qreup agreed that the Agency should prepare & memo

or a report en to what reactions so to typo, magnitado, and ting

we mighs expect from Castro as these sabotage operations continue.

There was some thought that he might male some covert moves to

embarrass la in Cuantnamo, perhaps in comection with our vrter

upply. Please have euch a memorandus prepared.

10. The meeting broke up in good order.

Diet bation:

Original - DCI

1 - DD/SAT

1 • DDI

I. DD/F

912162

Marshall S Carter

Lleutenant General, USA

Acting Directos

'! Executio Birector

1 - DD/I

I - ER

1 = CA/SCO

upy

---

