# 104-10066-10010

## Page 1

104-10066-10010

UUIGUINGEAMESSAGER

SIGNAL CENTER USE SLY

230-200

•AGE

PAGE

OMF

0

0

GLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE MANOLINE INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF: SA/D0/0

INFO:

D

15-15

DATE-TIME GROUP

CITE

161827Z

DIRECTOR

FILE EUR8, 1P/DMS,LAS OLC,;

DAOY, ADODO, ADORE,

15-1

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

225981

•DISSEM BY:

TO ANDEN

RETUAN TO

PER

D• A FRES

TO :

INFO

RYBAT WNINTEL RNVIEW Y

2. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS WHO CURRENTLY INVESTIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES.

SURROUNDING ASSASSINATIONS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND DR• MARTIN

LUTHER KING HAS TOLD. STATE THAT THEY INTEND TO PURSUE LEADS IN

PORTUGAL, UK AND MEXICO RELATING TO JAMES EARL RAY, CURRENTLY •

SERVING TIME FOR KING, MURDER. THEY BASING THIS INTEREST ON

INFORMATION THAT 'RAY WAS IN LISBON BRIEFLY IN MAY 19681 SHORTLY

BEFORE HIS APPREHENSION IN LONDON IN JUNE 196O. Y

2. MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR

OF COMMITTEE SAYS SELECT COMMITTEE TOLD STATE THAT HE WANTS TO

ESTABLISH "CORDIAL RELATIONSHIP" WITH APPROPRIATE PORTUGUESE

• NATIONAL POLICE AND HOPES TO ENLIST THEIR ASSISTANCE INCLUDING

-- ACCESS TO THEIR FILES AND IN LOCATING AND INTERVIEWING POTENTIAL

WITNESSES. Y

3. DEPARTMENT HAS SOLICITED EMBASSY SUGGESTIONS AS TO HOW

BLAKEY SHOULD PROCEED. Y

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

RELEASIAR POIR

САДНИТОМ

CODRDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATINE OFFICER

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 060494

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

AGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACP

TỎC

THE

DCI

PAGE

OMF O

0

CLASSIFICATION

- SECRET

MESSAGE HANDUNE INDICATOR

STAFF

D

0

0

PAGES

• ru

DATE-TIME GROUS

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERINCE MANNER

0

CONF:

INFO: FILE

12598)

D

INDEX

HO INDEX

-RETURN TO

PER

DISSEM BY:

4. WISH TO CALL ABOVE TO ADDRESSEES' ATTENTION IN "EVENT"

STATIONSZARE SOLICITED FOR ADVICE OR ASSISTANCE. RTACTION IS

COOPERATING FULLY WITH BLAKEY AND COMMITTEE INCLUDING ALLOWING

THEM ACCESS TO DIRECTORATE RECORDS, AFTER SUITABLE SANITIZATION

FOR SOURCES AND METHODS. HOWEVER, BELIEVE COMMITTEE'S EFFORTS

TO INTERVIEW POLICE AND WITNESSES AND RESULTING USEFUL INFORMATION

OBTAINED, IF ANY, IS LARGELY OVERT FUNCTION WHICH CAN BEST BE.

HANDLED BY LEGATTS OR OTHERS WHO WOULD ALSO BE IN A POSITION TO

BE PUBLICLY QUOTED OR IDENTIFIED IF NECESSARY. Y

28

5- ESTATIONS EXPECTED TO PROVIDE EMBASSY BEST ADVICE IF

SOLICITED BUT REQUESTED TO AVOID INVOLVING

LIN

NEGOTIATIONS EVEN IN THEIR

CAPACITIES. IF CIRCUMSTANCES

SUCH THAT THIS UNAVOIDABLE, PLEASE ADVISE HOS BY CABLE SO THAT

THE MATTER CAN BE APPROPRIATELY HANDLED WITH BLAKEY AND

DEPARTMENT. # H

ORIG: 0/SA/D0/0 ISOVERNI; COORD: OLE ECUMMINSI, DC/LA ELAUDERI

JAMES

C/LA/NEX

MESS WANKINS C/EUR/BC AMEN, C/EUR/IB

= 03 J; AUTH:

SA/DO/0

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

14 NOVEMBER 1977

MASOVERN

O SA/DO/9S

1542

-; REL: DC/EUR {ESTEST.J

C/LA/STAF-popportith

!?

DC/EUR

ELLASING OFFICER

Su!/ REPRODUE

D/EUR/BC

INDETIAN

#C/EUR/IB

CLAIMES

COOROMATINE OFFICERS

N BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PS

nicing.

'BITED

Malore

FORSA/D010

AUTHENTICATING OFFICEN

E 2

.. IMPDET

(*1

RV.

---

