# 104-10124-10047

## Page 1

104-10124-10047

INT

VIEW PROCESSING SHEE

M-LORD JAMES W

Advice réceived reveals

ROUTING L

52049

Matthe subject person as

for overseas travel as indicated belon

72756

Departure

Date i

gpsex 7/27/3€

Titie &

Grade

Lecuritu Marasch Precialist - ES-13

Destination

Division

rassport

DuDe i No.

Cover

DA<

Return

PRELIVINARY

PROcesSING - 1 reviero? Uhis file and the above intornation reveals:

[il No special briefing topics

1 See belon

No special corer problems

22

See belo

No special debriefing by other

Requires debriefings on

(as circled) SI & CRYPT

No special badges or crecentials d

See remarks

RENARKS

Date of Polygraph

-NIT

7/24/sC

INTERVIEW - On the indicated date subject was interviewed on the following points:

?:

security rogulations in general.

Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying hin with CIA).

Cover Story frature of cover; adequac or prior briefing; possibility of

inconsistencies; hriefing si spouse).

Personal Affaira (proper hardling of liank account, credit accounts, for-

warding of mailie

Personal Correspondence (no senuion of Cil in letiers to and from subject).

Personal condust la: general sure tenavior, b, no black market or currency

transactions, c. no nnise duriosity in natives in his area, d. no attempts

to identify or approach otherCIA personnel in area except for official

business and trough official channels).

Other Iravel (only official travel in or through Soviet controlled areas).

Other:

ACTION

Securiry debriefing by the umeraigned

coinpletes action necessary in this cese.

Subject was referred to

the following for the indi-

cated additional briefing:

/ The following vere obicine sron

subject and forded epioprially

for disposition.

/. Subject iraspernitted to

retain the following for turn in

at a

¡ater date.

03

By:

Date: 26 i/lle/ 19s 10

---

