# 104-10103-10057

## Page 1

104-10103-10057

I6 Fels 12, Talz

19 Jess. 72

EVERETTE HOWARD JUNI, JR.

1. Subjaci, a former CS-15 Cuerations Oificer assigned

to DDP/Europe, is 53 years of age and married. He served with

the Cifice of Strategic Services during World War II, and was employed

by this Agescy from Novembar 1919 until ais voluntary retirement

o= 30 April 1970, In 1971, Subject served as an advisor to Presidezt

Nison in relation to his trip to China. Subject is of current interest

to the Central Cover Stall,

2. Subject graduated from Browe University in 1940.: He

served with the United Statas Navy from carly 1941 natil late 1942,

After a year with lime, lacorporated, he entered the Air Force,

where he was detailed to the Office of Siratagic Sarvices. He served

in the Far East antil January 1946. Subject engaged in writing, and

then from May 1948 uatil February 1919 was amaloyed by the Economic

Cooperation Administration, serving in Paris, Frants, a3 an aide 10

Avarall Harriman,

3. A background inveatigation conducted by the Lederal Bureau

of Investigation in July 1949 revealed no indication of inatability on

Subject's part, but it was later learned that Subject had bees relused

an increase in salary wits the Economic Cooperazion Administration

and had been permitted io resign. He was described as highly istalligent,

but bliadly selfish and egotiatical.

Subject's sifs, Dorotay Louisa Gontiore Hunt, was investigaied

for Agency employment in 1943. Her former husband was described

as a habitual drunkard, and Subject's wife was described as slightly

unstable and not inclined to remain in one placa for any length as time.

Sze did no: eater on duty, having accepted a position wità che Economic

Cooperation Administration in Paris, Car Paris sources later reported

that Subject's wife was formarly his mistreas and was openly flouted

a8 such for several montha. She was then describad as an amoral and

dangerous individual who underhandedly attacked those person? 230

incurred her enmity.

RETURN.TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

5. Subject entered on duty as an Intelligence Olficer, G5-13,

on 8 Noverber 1919, In December 1950 ba was assigaed as Chief

of Station, ilexico City, and then served as Chial of Mission there

uatil August 1953.

He served in Tobyo, Japan, from June 1954.

until February 1957. He was then assigned as Chief ai Station,

Montevidao, Urnguay. Subjeci was Chial of Station in Mostavideo

until early 1960. Thare ware indications that Subjeci atterpted

to usa bis personal influence with the Presidant of Uruguay to hava

his assignmant there extended, but he returned to the United States

in June 1960 and was assigned to Mexico City on Project IMARC.

6. A cabla from Montevideo, dated 6 November 1960, indicates.

that Sabject had written forcer Uraguayan contacts commenting thai

he was working on the Cabas problem and publiahing an asti-Castro

nawspaper in Miami. It was recommended that Subject be warnad

about such indiscreet remarks, but apparently no action was taken

7. In Noveraber 1961, Subject was reassigned to the DDPI

Covert Action Stall, and ta January 1962 to the Offico of the Chief

of the same Staff. In July 1962 Subject was transferred to the DODS

Research and Piblications Section in Wazhington, and in July 196$

tó the DODS Cover: Action Stail, In February 1965 ha movad to the

Oifica of the DDP/ Operations Group. From June 1965 to Saptembas

1966 Subject served ag a Contract Agant in Madrid, Spain, alter

which he servad in the DDP as Chiei of Europeai Covert Operations

until his retirement on 30 Apzil 1970..

8. On 26 JanlaTy 1970 a sonrce of the Office of Security

learned that Sabjact was circulating through he peblishing community

"Cive Us Ihis Day," a manuscript writtes, under his former oparational

alias and dealing with the events of the Bay of Pigs. Investigation

discload that the mazuscript had been in the possession of Tom Wallace,

of Holt, Rinehart, and Wiaston, Inc. as early as 9 Jaly 1968 and that

it was sent on that date to William E. Backlay, JI., of tha Natiocal

Rovier. The manuscript was sent to the Arlingion House and Walker

and Company as well. Both ejaciad it as too controversial, as had

Holt, Rinebait, and Winston.

2

---

## Page 3

9. Sabject sag interviewed regarding le mazuscrip os

17 February 1970 by the DDP, He di flesi professad igaorance, out

when told the title admitted be bad written it lot bia own benefic as a

historicai record. Subject said be bad shown the manuscripi aboui

1ms years ago to bia agesi, Mas Wilkinsoa, and to Willlam E. Suckley,

I?.. He said be had only wazied an opinion frore thesa gentlames, aed

added thai lae manuscript bad been ratamed to him. Fis had, he said,

not sranted it pabllabed. Subject as instructed as to the danger di such

= ranuacrip being pablishad, and was to atlempi to determine zow

many copies of it might be in circalation.

Ma 1a3 30t to tone walkar

and Corpazy, who were lee source of the original information.

30, A riarastigation ai Subjeci was conduciod by the Office of

Security in Jaly 1970, Subjec: and bis pia ere described by gia

neighbors acgaainiad with them for up to bize years, as exceliabi

parents, good peighbors, and loe community citizang.

11. Da 19 Jay 1971, Subject was reportad by la Jersay Cliy,

New Jar997, Jonsual to bazo joined the Walte House Stalf aa a

Consaltant to Praaidan Nitos prepazatory to the Presidant's visit to

tha Peoples Zapsolle of Chiez.

12. On 5 Novaraber 1970, Sabject was granted a Corest Security

Apporal faI use by Caaizal Coser Sial with Robert R. Muller aad

Compasy, a Public Ralaticas firm with offices at 1729 # Street, Moria-

wast, Wastagios, D.G." Inquiry di the Ceatzal Cover Stall ou 19 Jua

1972 zeyealed toa: this in a curen relationghip. Subject, as principal

oLãcaz of Robart R. Mullen and Compaay, i3 wiping of cover arrange-.

as lot to Agency at l

13. Subject's security file zaflects thai Sabjeck has, in the pasi,

bean di operational intaresi to Me. James Angleton, Chizi, CI Si/DDP,

in conneciion with an operational maiter. On 19 Juze 1972,

Jabbard, CI Suit, advised that be will provide information as to tae

zaine bi Mia. Angleton's utilization of Subject.

3

---

