# 104-10209-10201

## Page 1

104-10209-10201

inht..

• Director

Todoral Furem of Irestlestion

Attantions 1. J. J, lapich

FROM & Daguty Direator for Plana

JULy: 100 Harry Divald (FAI 7105-2555, Dellas $100-10461)

R$T & report of Fil special egant, Fovert P. Carbarline,

dated 23 Denesbor 1963.

Lo ha jour Bureau do paaro, the clasdaatina samices 10 developing

a maching collation prugra to haile inforatios on the Cuban intelleeney

sul doority savices. is jot, toe date buse de very narror, it t

mult tunt any soares againet tha progres has a very lialted chanco al

sucoas. Honotheless, & search was made using those itass of laloration

which ar known rolating to 'e tuo letters

from farana, ous dated

10 Hovenber 1963 and addressed to ourald, and the other datad 27 Novanber

1963 and addressed to tha Attorary Canoral.

2o The semptlons on witch the search vare ande wore that the

uriter va unlos elecanto of a true sane (sor example, that his true Strat

5h0 priatout Ilated 19 aroo,

of shich only tuo soned to holl any Interest. A renter of so teles a

eeso to oliminatod ans, soone a single emdicato.

3.

It mat be exphanized that thare is no rossce to bellove that

. In In laot the vriter or tha lattore except for ubat my in loct

prove to be mere colneidences in firot nano and in locattoos, and further

that the camptons on waich thone sintlarition are bared mey thonselves

be talee. lonetheless, the identity of this singlo possible condidate ia

being fursaluted your burm for vatavar una la deesed @propriate.

sorries, la attachad.

221 8 8

STORET ME

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

5. At the ano tina, a routine nasa trace has bach no in the

mats index on the no/marlo.

del Rosario MILT, the naze vith shich

the 27 lovenber 1203 letter was sinned. Tiara vera nu traces on that

no, bat ta arration ves avalleble ca tuo persona vial sosenat

dallar Eo0s

It is not know utathar olther of those 18 lueatienl

with the vitor of tie lotter, und 1t should be noted thet the nam

MO MENA la a relativaly comon oo, 1ne folloving intormation 1

cubaltted en of possible interest:

at ad mas sctivoly lonstrating grarant oficas und

treme through tho ustablinharat of ViI calla within them.

MATIO MOLINA sa ballaved to be Identical 11e0 a paina ot

tan see Dona tho bad received comanist propaganda nateriale

"Coniot."

D) A person bearing the nose Yario MINA Zayaa, passport

153/107 departed lavms, Cabo, on 5 July 1963 on a chartered

Right for tramo, Csachelovaiia. It is not inose whether

this 1n01vidual has raturad to cula.

Attachant: a/s

C3C1-3/761,543

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - RED/A

- CI/LIA

• C/CI/REA

- C/CI/SIa

- сI/T8A

Originated by: CI/REA

eakb (25 1495 1964)

SEGMET

---

