# 104-10178-10189

## Page 1

104-10178-10189

: 8 SEP 1$6J

MEVORAPDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Spas Todorov RAIKIN

2. The undereigned vas directly Involved with Subject's spittal

reluge in Greece, as the undersigned was

at the tine

and participated in the interrogation of subject and the others who defected

with him due to the suspicious nature of their escape story. During later

years, in the course of debriefing varlous contects and consultants, subject's

name came up during these discussions and the undersigned was able to piece

together the sequence of affairs from the time of RAJKIN's escape until the

3. During the sunner of 1951, Subject, alone will two other individuals

who were all Trudovaks working on airfields

In Bulgaria, escaped to Creece.

In connection with their escape, four other individuals likewise escaped

to Greece. During Subject's interrogation and the interrogation of his

friends,

it was felt that the escape story needed clarification from a CE

standpoint.

To

the best of our knowiedte, however, none of the Individuals,

Including Subject, appeared to be connected with the DIs. There was a poss-

Ibility shich was mentioned at the

background, may have been a

Interrozation he stated that politically he vas partial to, although not a

member of, the Nikola Petkov faction (left wing) of the Agrarian party.

was Ilkewise determined that Subject's interest precluded operational use

as a cross border agent and neither be nor his colleagues vere recruited.

The other four individuals tho escaped separately to Greece were, however,

recrulted.

4• Upon arrival in the DP camp in Athens (Lavrion) Subject becan

Involved in political discussions and at that time claimed to be an adberent

However, no

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

• 2

Die to his educational sacrud in religion, dublect bas nevertheless

to by his pore illterate and unfortunate conutriots, die

to his faculty of speech and education. In seeidro ways of

setting out of Greece, and she unhappy lot of a reñiore, Le vas able to 60

to switzerland there he sturied in a theolosical serinar under the

auspices of the World Council of Churches (WCC).

5. During 1959, while visiting COLONESOlE in Saltserland, she toid

the undersigned thet she has beard of jubject fron otter triends and that

they had been highly suspisious of him and felt that he sight te a BIs

agent or sonething-

mis tas predicated on subjeet's discussiors and

activities while in suitzeriard.

Subject next case i the undersigned's attention after subject's

arrival In the United States and his affiliation in work uncerning refugees.

Ey this time subject prolessed to be'a staunch nationalist and republican

and cordened anybod) sio ta: bolunged to Agrarian factions, especially

those from a center to left.

According to loria Clari, a fore contract

employee of this Asency ito vas also stationed in Greece as an interrogator

and later resigned to tale a josition in Pittsburgi, Pa. Involied In the

helping and settling of Saigarian refugees comino to tse United States,

Subject used his legitiate Fusinesn as a cover for self-agorandicecent and

political prestige in the Sierian cmisre eroups.

roth Clark and his wife

complained bitterly to Deer Fairuff, then Caier of the Dulgariar Irarch,

and Clarli also complained to tir undersigned corcernirg RAIKIl's activities,

which in view of what he sas supected to le doing, vere highly suspect.

Accordinu to the Clari's, Jiject's activities could indicate Lat his j0b

"as to create chaos and division among bulgarian emigres and thith could

logically be a reguirement a the BIS.

7. In 1956, JUBOCI (P) a contract acent of this Agency, Inforced the

undersigned that jubject tal vired the Diulgarian lational Siont and as

speaking loud and atrorg for

By this tine,

turn politically fros leit

viro Agrarian to monarcibet ationalist.

JUROCI lIkewise givised that

Subject was continuing his extorts to dominate the Zilgarian churci: group

and in so doing had caused fissue in the rationalist Block, whic' et best

sas beint held tojether by coraly threada.

SUROCI could ofter no 2500i, bus

felt that Subject may have beer autine on behall of the presant regina c

3I3 in causing chaos in tre eri;res or was doins it strictlv for sale-

aggrandicement and anolument.

9. Over a periad of tize inclect has beer the topic o: conversation.

between DILAGBIO (P), a cons: ican: of this diency, and the undersionel.

Prior to conine to lashirono 1= 1955, DILAIDIO had been very active ln tre

Gunch activittes of the Buicezian Church in inerica. Le las the lay president

of the Church Eroip and haù beg= a rapprocionent betreen the l'acodosian and

the bulgarian church. DIliato rai been asked by Blahe» Andre, head of the

Sulgarion Church in Forth Azeries includiro Maccaoris, to corsider study for

the priesthood arl with a sier a replacing Adre upon the intier: death.

JHlA-3I0 turned du. this pragural since lie fold be

naild poster to cerair 15

che educational ticla, dut ti: anire he would conciate to Muction as the

---

## Page 3

SECRET

- 3 -

lay leader of the

church. Durine dila tine DILAUBIO reported lo the

underslened that subject, won arrtrol in the stateu lad son to great

lengtha to tall: to each of the individual. l'ulgarian And Nacedonian

presidento in the various cities and later on atteupted lo oet then to

back him (Bubject) for the future job o. Bishop. A long figit developed

etween RAIXIN and the Blahop when the Elshop stated Wiat he did not foe

ubject yualffled to handle the job; due to his activities, in stilgaria:

Church in North America almost disintegrated as a cohesive unit. When

the matter finally cane

to a vote and 1t developed Jubject would not get

the job, but would be offered a pricotroad, he suddently decided, despite

the years and money apent on him by WCC in theological training, that he

did not want to be a pricot anyway and, a few weeks later, turned around

and married a girl in New York. This act, of coursc, prohibits hin from

ever aspiring to be Blahop. Since that time on nunerotia occasiung, Subject

usine bis offices in WCC as a cover, has sent denunciatory letters con-

cerning other Bulgarians to various US Government agencies 1f these Bulg-

arians happened to have crossed bim or 1f he has taken a dislike to them.

By the same token, he has written letters concerning Bulgarians whom

he espouses to various agencies in ordor to obtain anuistance in the grant

Ing of visas and of obtaining jobs.

9. The undersigned, like all other sources involved, cannot offer any

evidence that Subject 1s an agent of the Bulgarian Cormunist regine, but

feels that his activities have certainly plajed into their hands and

have been such as they would have conducted through a provocation or

sleeper type agent. To be frank, the undersigned feels that perhaps

subject in an over anbitious, nercenary, negalomaniac, who is not content

nless he 1s stirring up things in which his nane will appear in proninence

and from which he can derive sone benefit.

Ball allen

onald M

SECHET

---

