# 104-10071-10257

## Page 1

104-10071-10257

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLAMBIRICATIDR

SECRET

DISPATCH

chier,

WH Division

cos,

Moxico City

cos,

COS.

Possible Contact

Between Cuban Embassy, Mexieo Caly and FAR

ACTION REQUIREO. PLFRPENCES

FYI

•SOCISBINO ACTION

MANNED ION MOLINE

HO INOCUINO BAQUATLO

ONLY QUALIDED ATSE

CAR MODE MOCHNA

COON ILAS

..!.

During a recent training period on interrogation with

Case Officer, the point of getting information from

suspects on their international contacts or information that

might holp other services was stressed.

Apparently, as a result,

Case Officer dug into his notes on the interrogation

of Ricardo Ismael VALLECILLO Perez, Guatemalan FAR member, and

came up with the following. Information which he thought worIRM

might want to pass to the

2.

VALLECILLOS stated (the Interrogation took place in

December, 1967) that FAR was awaiting the arrival of new type

machine-pistol called the Red Star (Estrella Roja) from Cuba.

He stated that it was a 28 shot weapon and would be issued to

commanders of Guerrilla Groups to replace the present Browning

semi-autos.

He then added that the individuals in charge of f

Diaz and Adelo (or Abeldo)

a sarcastic remark made by the Case Officer about the

efficacy of the FAR gun-running mechanism.

3.

mation

to

the

by WOFIRM.

has siven his permission to pass this infor-

if it is considered of any

value

Distribution:

2

- C/WHID

2

~ Mexico City

2

— Y1108

GARDALPHE/gOk

10 May 68

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SIMAOL ANO MUMBRA

HRSA -9022

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

10 May

HOS FILE NUMBER

1968

18-9-10

---

