# 104-10167-10236

## Page 1

104-10167-10236

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

25 January 1977

MEUDRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Marcos Jose

DIAZ Lanz

DPOB 1928, Cuba

OCC:

1959 - Deputy Chief of Rebel Air Force,

Brother of

Pedro who was Chief of FAR

April 1959 report states that larcos and Pedro DIAZ Lanz

were scheduled to be elininated by Maj. Raul CASTRO Ruz;

Commander in Chief of Cuban Arned Forces.

18 July 1959 cabie from Hqs, to Hayana, states that a

connected with

stringer for Havant Times

and

contacted Messrs.

and

American friends of DIaZ Lanz brothers,

Miami 17 July.

brought note from Marcos DIAZ

addressed to Frank FIORINI requesting that be

DIAZ arrange escape from Cuba of Marcos.

and

cleared CIA contacts, agreed to withhold note from FIORINI

pending CIA decision on the matter. Hqs. desired to assist

Marcos® escape.

and

vere sent to Havana on

18 July to act as cutout to Staticn on op. They were met

by Dave SDRALES.

made arrangements in

Havana for Marcos' evacuation from Cuba in disguise.

Arrangements were made to transfer larcos to intermediary,

Bernard BARKER, who would take him to Havana Station safehouse.

Marcos safely arrived in Tampa, Fla. On Jaly 59 and went to

Miant on 29 July where he was under supervision of ur.

Bernard Reichhardt.

Bondo

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

3/4/98 dal

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

---

## Page 2

14-00000

19 July 59 cable from Favana to Hqs. requested that

FIORINI not be made witting under any circunstances of plained

evacuation/ of farcos since he sas considered by Havam

Station to be untrustwortby.

3

7 August 59 Nemo for Record by

reported

that Marcos DIAZ had moved in with Frank FIORINI.

told Reichhardt that the Agency did not propose to do any

operational work with FIORINI and that it would be necessary

for him to be cut out of any activities undertaken by CIA

Lin support of three Cubans who were planning ops against

Castro7. Reichhardt said that it would be difficult since

the three Cubars

were fond of FIORINI and trusted him

completely.

(See DBA 43686, 21 June 63 in Pedro' 31le

saying that Pedro did not consider FIORINI trustworthy.$

USTA-9, August 59, concerning the above three who planned

ops against Cuba. Originator of dispatch said that he

cautioned the three about security; that they should

not

discuss with anyone else their plans and should tell the

writer (Patrick I. KARNLEY) if they did. KARNLEY stated

"however, there is a close and apparently unshakeable

relationship

with people like Frank FIORINI and other

people with whon they were close during the revolution.

I have repeatedly cautioned tbem about FIORINI specifically

and they have alrass responded by recogaleine phat FloRIdI sa

a threas in that he talks too such. But as and is we proceed

*ith this grous, it has to be done ritu the expectatión tant

FIORINI and others are g01ng to be frequently aroud tais

group and we will have only the word of these people.

that he and

others are not being inforned of their actlvitles."

---

## Page 3

14-00000

... "

-...

-3 -

iM3

22 September 1959 Meno for the Record by

OD

26 sept. he (Reichhardt) discussed with

matters including

SANJENIS. Reichardt called

land asked for information

On SANJENIS. According to Reichardt, LORIE says that he

(SANJENIS) was fired from the DIER for anti-Communist

activities and was expected to arrive in Miami the previous

night. LORIE was worried about

SANJENIS because of the latter's

previous post

as No. 2 man. in the DIER. The Cuban card

confirms that

he held the

latter post.)

UMWA-37, 15 Oct 59: "The FBI recently inforned me

(Patrick I. KARNLEY) that a source had reported to them that

Marcos and Frank FIORINI had been making the rounds of arms

dealers getting prices for a fairly sizable amount of small

arms. Marcos made no mention of this so I did not bring it

up with him. FBI document dated 1 Oct 59 states that FIORINI,

former Capt. in the FAR, was at that time an associate of Marcos

DIAZ Lanz.

4 Bar 60 cable from Mexico City, states that Marcos

was souring on the U.S. Marcos

said

that he was

ailked of

Information by the U.S. intelligence organizations and tossed

aside.

12 March 60 Mexico City cable.. Marcos told U.S. Consul

his manner of entry into U.S. and that the entire op was

handled by CIA Including false puerto Rican documentation-

7 Apr 60 FBI document. Pedro and Marcos and two others

made a prop leaflet dropping run over lavana 21 Oct 59.

Marcos said that he helped print the pamphlets on a printing

---

## Page 4

14-00000

- 4

press located at the residence of Frank FIORINI, an American

citizen 2080 SW 60th Court, Miami, Fla.

....

12 May 60 cable from

Siami to Has, states that there was

a report by local agencies that a force of sen, believed to

be circa 100, was being formed

by DIAZ Lanz under supervision

of Frank FIORINI. It was known that FIORINI had been giving

field training to seall units on the far outskiris of Miami

toward the Everglades. FBI information dated 5 July 62 states

that FIROINI was involved with the DIAZ Lanz brothers preparing

for bombing and leaflet dropping raid ove- Cuba.

15 Apr 63 - ISRN No. 8521 - Marcos was dropped without

prejudice from Dert. of Army.

May €3 Narcos and FIORINI were discussing anti-Castro

activity. (Reporting from ANCLATTER-1' - Bernard BARKER - who

obtained it from FIORINI.) BARKER said that Jack Anderson

was very friendly with DIAZ brothers and was expected in

Kiami on 3 May 63.

11 June 63 report from BARKER, from FIORINI; who spoke

vith Marcos DIAZ. Marcos asked FIORINI to participate in the

raid. Marcos said that his group had not only received the

green light from CIA but also its active assistance in that

most of the weapons, equipment and money the ops would be

carrying into Cuba were furnished by CIA. The CIA was also

providing twin

so caliber machine guns for counting on

the

moppy and ammunition for Pedro's 57 AM recollless rifle..

28 JUlY 63: BARKER reporting frOM FIORINI: MarCOS

and FIORINI loft Xiant for leaflet raid on Havana but tere

stopped by FBI, thus the trip was aborted.

27 July 63 FIORINI and Pedro were planning an air raid

---

## Page 5

- 5

on Havana for 28 July. The plane was to have a large

quantity of Spanish language prop leaflets

containiug prop

attacking the U.S. Administration, the CIA, and Manuel ARTIME.

After dropping leaflets the plane was to drop bombs and return

to the U.S. FIORINI was to be co-pilot.

3 Nov 64 Marcos talked freely of election results in

U.S. which already assured President's (Johnson) victory.

Called President SOB. Said they would have to go into street

and fight since they could not accept President's government.

Did not clarify "they" but it was reported obvious that he

was referring to minutesen. Marcos said U.S. would be far

better off so president vere dead. (HAVE 4643)

On 4 Apr 67 POA on Marcos was cancelled. (Saw nothing

1 file Indicating clearance had been requested of granted.)

Chris Hopkins

LA/COG

---

