# 104-10168-10001

## Page 1

104-10168-10001

215

15 ECT 560

SERRET

DIRECTOR

icrav

- 116-1

it: 9

iNFO

8D01, 0/51, 82, COR, 1008/1, 154, SIEGE A INN

ROUTINE

(SUSPENSE DO/ 1)

201.

OCT 15 13002 9

IN 28176

CI.: CITE

7401

w-=.

21-1

•SOURCE• IDI 12 OCTOBER 600.

DEVELOPSENTS IN ESTOCRATIC REVOLUTIRINEY FRONT EFADIE

NO DE SANCHEZ AFRICO HAS LEST FRO FOLLOWING A DISAGREEMENT

:ETH OTHER LEADERSO. HE IS NOW JOINING FORCES WITH GROUPS LED BY

PedalENa LAZ, CONGS ACUERO END OTIERS.

DO DE VARONA HAS BREN AFFOINTED COOROINATOR OF TAD IN. FACE OF

OPPOSITIO! FROM DR JUSTO CAPRILLO WHO RINSELT WOULD LIKE TO DE

CVISIONAL PRESIDENT OF CUBA.

GO IS DESENCE FROG MEXICO OF CERTAIN FRO LEADERS,

FOLLC.INS

72

ESCHS REFADSENTING FSD:

6:2 DE SOLANDE DE ROJAS GONZALEZ, REFRESZNTLIG VARCHA

E2: DI FANS PRETINEZ PIEDEA, REPRESENTING R6.

(3) DR JOSE F, CARAGOL, REPRESENTING ARTIME.

¿4) ER JULIAN ARIAS, REPRESENTING SANCHEZ.

85) DR DIAZ.

THERE ARE THREE FRONTS IN ESCAMBRAY FIONTING:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,

Copy

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

3ISR

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIEO MISEr.

SECRET

I. HILLS OF BANGO, BATISTA GROUFS TIPE.

CÓ RILLE OF SANTA LUCIA AD AREAS OF CASAQUITAS AND CAPIRO.

HERE LEADERS AEZ VASQUEZ AND CHADENASO.

PIECE GEOUPS ARE ALL RECZIVING AID FROT FEETI, AS IS ANOTHER GOUP

LEE BY GONZALEZ OPUS, A FORMER MAYOR OF PARIANO.

3. VILLIA MORGAN IS REPORTED TO HAVE SAXEN TO ESCAMBRAY HILLS. JAIL.

THETE

VEPY FEW SOLDIERS OR POLICE DE MAVERiA NOW, ONLY MILITIA

GIGUFSO THE OTHER FORCES ARE COCUPIED MATE ESCRIBRAY:

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMENT: * DISSEMINATION APPLICAZLE TO DIRER DIET CABLES.

SECRET

•CY BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE FICE IS PROMIBITEO

---

