# 104-10056-10111

## Page 1

1104-10056-10111

we Froris

40

PERSON/UNIT NETIFIED

POTAL COPIES

SECRET

23

E2,

IMPDET

CL.

• BY: 006687

LA 10

ETION N

FILE, VR, MMXKORESERKH RUE IP/DNS, LID, PCS/INT,

(I 4, CA 4, SIAN SIA/IC- KHFR 5.

T

208158

E1 A4 97

PAGE B1

TOR: 262050Z SEP 77

S•E CRE T T SEP. SEP.7Y INTEL

CITe

22 95 0

HJK-753

TO:. DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL INTEL REAM

SUPDATA!

ERWAHDO FOR HOS REVIEW.

PROJECT SLEEPER. SHORIZON 1

•FROM PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE, NOT PASSED LIAISON. NOT

FOR PASSAGE TO LIAISON, THIS REPORT SHOULD NOT FAT

NOT BE PASSED TO GNGRAPH. 0.D. OBJ N-1, INDEX:

BROWN, MUNROE, FILE:: 103-8-20 201-087026D. CLBY

058245• HJK -733.

" FILED:

281945Z

AGENCY MESSAGE

IN 416872

22952

S

E

CRET

28 SEP 17

1925

0.0

8

9

---

## Page 2

13-00000

JUIS

IDHIONS

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE 28 SEPTEMBER 1977

IN

416072

PAGE 1 OF4

PAGES

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METIIODS INVOLVED

The following report, transmitted from a ClA field station, requires review within the Directorale of Operations before being used

in ony osher document or publication, or released outside the Agency. Pending results of this review, o copy is provided for your

advance information.

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BI ORIGINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO: SDO

E-D IMPDET C! BY 007822

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLI CENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORO

CONSULTANTS ISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY: "CUBA AJAMAICA

DOI:

SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1977

SUBJECT:.. CLOSED MEETING OF MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY

OF CUEA AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON ON

24 SEPTEMBER 1977

ACQ:

JAMAICA, KINGSTON 126 SEPTEMBER 1977 REPORT NO. HJK-733

SO URCE:

A CUBAN OFFICIAL VISITING JAMAICA, HE WAS PRESENT

AT THE MEETING DESCRIBED BELOW. ALTHOUGH IT IS

BELIEVED THAT HE ACCURATELY REPORTS WHAT HE HAS

BEEN TOLD, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

1, ON 24 SEPTEMBER 1977, ENRIQUEM ON TER O

LEZCANO, MINISTER-COUNSELLOR OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON,

ADDRESSED THE REGULAR MONTHLY MEETING OF THE MEMBERS OF THE

COMMUNIST PARTY OF CUBA SPCCI ASSIGNED TO JAMAICA, MONTERO

WAS ACTING IN THE PLACE OF THE CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO JAMAICA,

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13:00000

FORM

3007

GASOLE ONSIONS

IN 416072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(classiflection)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

RÄMON PE Z FERRO, WHU RETURNED TO CUBA ON VACATION ON

21 SEFTEMBER, THE MEETING TOOK PLACE AT THE EMBASSY,

2, MONTERO SAID THAT INTERNAL DIVISIONS WITH IN THE

RULING PEOPLE'S NATIONAL PARTY (NPY OF JAMAICA HAD RESULTED

IN THE RESIGNATION OF D. K. DUNCAN AS PNP GENERAL

SECRETARY-AND MINISTER OF MOBILIZATION. MONTERO SAID THAT

THE APPOINTMENT OF RALPH BR OWN AS THE NEW PNE GENERAL

SECRETARY HAD BEEN GENERALLY WELL-RECEIVED WITHIN THE PNP.

MONTERO DESCRIBED BROWN AS A MATURE, EXPERIENCED PARTY

DEFICIAL WHO WOULD BE ABLE TO SERVE AS A "MODERATOR" BETWEEN

THE "RIGHTISTS," "MODERATES" AND "LEFTISTS" OF THE PNP.

3, MONTERO COMPLAINED THAT THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD

EXFLOITED BROWN'S RECENT

TRIP TO CUBA FOR ITS "CAMPAIGN OF

CONF US ION", IN FAILING TO REPORT THE PURPOSE OF THE TRIP.

THE PRESS IMPLIED THAT THERE WERE UNKNOWN, SINISTER

MOTIVES BEHIND IT, MONTERO SAID THAT BROWN HAD GONE TO CUBA

MERELY IN ORDER TO ATIEND THE FIRST CONGRESS OF THE CUBAN

COMMITTEES FOR THE DEFENSE OF THE REVOLUTION CODES, TO BE

HELD 24-28 SEPTEMBER.,

MONTERO SAID THAT APPROXIMATELY 25

FOREIGN COUNTRIES WERE TO SEND DELEGATES TO THIS CONGRESS.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

0.7M 3007 ORSOLETIONVIOUS

BUBS SEE.

IN 41607Z

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED.

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classilication)

(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO THE PRESS, BROWN LEFT JAMAICA

ON 23 SEPTEMBER FOR A THREE-DAY VISIT TO CUBA, THE PURPOSE

OF WHICH WAS NOT INDICATED. ON THE NIGHT OF 27 SEPTEMBER,

IT WAS REPORTED ON JAMAICAN TELEVISI ON THAT BROWN HAD MADE

A STATEMENT CONCERNING HIS TRIP FOLLOWING HIS RETURN THAT

DAY TO. JAMAICA.

HE SAID HE HAD GONE TO CUBA SOLELY IN

ORDER TO ATTEND THE COR CONGRESSO AND HE CRITICIZED THE

DISTORTED MANNER IN WICH THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD REPORTED

ON HIS TRIP.

i:-4, MONTERO BRIEFLY ADDED THAT DR. TREVOR MUNROE.

LEADER OF THE WORKERS' LIBERATION LEAGUE WLLI, TRAVELED TO

CUBA FROM JAMAICA ON 21 SEPTEMBER.

HE DID NOT INDICATE THE

PURPOSE OF MUNROE'S VISIT TO CUBA,.. FINALLY, MONTERO SAID IT

WAS QUITE PROBABLE THAT BELARMINO CA STILL A MAS, CUBAN

VICE MINISTER OF CULTURE, WOULD VISIT JAMAICA DURING

THE SECOND HALF OF OCTOBER.

5, MONTERO CALLED ON ALL POC MEMBERS TO BE ALERT FOR

ANY COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES AND

TO MAINTAIN THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF SECURITY, HE SAID

THAT CUBAN EXILES RECENTLY SANK

..A CUSAN BOAT. OFF THE COAST.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

8054. 3007 ORSOlERATIOUS

IN 426072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF M PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classl/Ication)

OF PERU, HE ALSO SAID THAT CUBAN EXILES SUCH AS FNU D I A Z

LAN AND OTHERS. HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE. ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, MONTERO DID NOT ELABORATE:

6.

FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT KINGSTON. (AMBASSADOR ONLY).

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR, CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING

PEFICER: XGDSO2.

SECRET

---

