# 104-10065-10273

## Page 1

104-10065-10273

EE CONFIDENTIAL

•ANTERNAL

MUSCLOSE LEONAL:

12K ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

ng- DCI

dong +504 50001

19).241

ADMIRAL TURNER WANTS THIS DELIVERED TODAY.

EXTENSION

NO.

Exooudys Registry

77-4700

DATE

$ 25 April 1977

OFFICER'S:

& INITIALS.&

FORWARDED

COMMENTS: (Number

With aim l

hilli tra

comment.)

hill.

Chiefs CCS

4/DCI/PA

Inspector Generai

25 AFR. 19773

25 APR 1977

for

not no bin ling =

EA/DOC/ Cos

2oa5

DCIE

610,5

- SECRET:

SPT CONFIDENTIAL FT INERAL REFA UNCLASSIFIED

06524

---

## Page 2

14-00000

The Director of Central Intelligence

Hashinglon D C. 20503

Executive Registy

92-4700

DD/0?7-3881

25 APR 1977

The Honorable Walter E. Fauntroy

United States House of Representatives

Washington, D.G. 20515

Dear Mr. Fauntroy,

I read in yesterday's Washington Post that you believe it

possible that some U.S. journalists are in fact CIA agents and

engaged in a conspiracy to frustrate the work of your House

Assassinations Conmittee.

Let me assure you that there are no working U.S. journalists •

employed by the Central Intelligence Agency.

Let me further assure you in the most unequivocal terms

that I will not tolerate any actions by any members of the Central

Intelligence Agency to impede your investigation.

On the contrary,

you will have our most complete cooperation. Please advise me

personally if there is any way in which you feel this is not being

done.

Yours sincerely,

/s/ Stansfield Turner

STANSFIELD TURNER

Admiral, U.S. Navy

---

