# 104-10308-10023

## Page 1

104-10308-10023

31

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH

chief, Task Force

PRO

POSED

INFO.

FROM

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ORLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM

PLISHED

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT

Oporational/ CYROGF.

duerational Debralazo

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Action Required:

None.

JUL 1 X 1957

Reference: UFGA-4088.

li pessible use it sud

During the month

of May 1962 the

Blowing tersons,

processing

CAC, were considered to be of operational inportance

to JMWAVE..

1. Kafael

*ARRIBAS Rodriguez (A 17 895 148).

Subject, a forner

liedical Products

Salesman, had contacts with two enployces of

the Post Office

In Cuba.

The leads he provided were considered

marginal and dropped for further operational exploitation.

Jose Francisco

• *AZOR Ores (A 12 911 733).

subject, a rural

census taker: for .the INRA, is undergoing a thorough debriet-

ing on OB

and cartographic information by the AMOTs.

3.

Manuel CABRERA

Rodriguez (A 12 911 477). Subject, a

former

worker in Canaguey and ex-Rebel Army Battalion

Commander,

was.debriefed

on positive intelligence information.

results

of this debriefing were forwarded to Reports for

dissemination.

(Dr Jaime'

X#CARBONELL Rivero (A 12 907 852).

subject, a former

night club owner in Havana, submitted two plans to assassinate

Fidel Castro.

The results

Headquarters in usA-aute dated 51 doricine nege forwarded to

5.

Abel Julio

*COLINORIO Vasquez (A 12 971 774).

Subject,

former Naval Chauffeur and member of the END,

is bein; die-

operational leads and positive intelligence.

6.0l

00

subject,

Tand co-owner of al

was recruited, trained in Sw before he returned to

Cuba.

JMWAVE plans to start a ner collection networi centered

(continue])

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

Distribution:

CS 80PY

17A 9

222

3-Headquarters

25 June 62

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER -

INDEX

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

UF6A-4543

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBEF

195-120-33

4/PV

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-4543

Din Havana

and Path saent into teet had come to PEpRalin tavisit

and Pinar del Rio.

his son who had been injured in an automobile accident.

7.

06

8.

Carlos Fernando

*GALBAN Perez (A 12 895 062)•

subject, a

former, theatre employee in havana, was contacted by Inu

a private detective in Havana who was his neighbor,

ust prior to his departure and asked that

when

Subject

arrived in liani, he contact Frevre JORGE in the Catholic

Bureau in Miami.

Allegedly l

had information concern-

ing airfields,

pilots and radarobinstallations which he

wanted to send

to Freyre JORGE.

contacting the

Catholic welfare Bureau, Freyre JORGE wasbunknown to. them.

At the request of JMWAVE, Subject wrote to

_ in order

more information concerning

mortine to an a see cats letter potential.

AntonioX COICOCHEA Cosculluela.

subject,

a former member of

the Legal Department of Cubana,

was debriefed on positive

intelligence and on

the activities of ANWARM-1.

of the intelligence portion of the debriefing is being

disseminated.

06

9 .

(1 22 419 493). Subject, medical

doctor, returned to Cuba without giving any indication of

his plans to: CAC, consequently JMWAVE was too late in recruit-

ing him; however, he is scheduled to return to PBPRIME about

November'.

It is possible that Subject will return again to

Cuba at that time.

If this proves to be the case, serious

consideration will be given to recruiting him.

10. Ruben Arturo #HERNANDEZ Garcia (A 12 911 621).

an MRAC coordinator in Santa Fe, Isle

of Pines.

subject was

Several

leads of marginal value were provided.

11. Jose "MONTALVO Urruti (A 12 911 835).

20C

Subject, a pediatrician,

came to PBPRIMF to visit his daughter who is in a Miami high

school and to visit a patient.

Subject has an invalid wife

and one son currently

serving in the Isle of Pines prison

after he was captured

at Playa Giron.

Although he originally

expressed an interest in working

as an ODYOKE

singleton in

PBPRIME once he returned, he later changed his mind.

12. Tomas *OLIVERA Gandoa (A 11 266 803).

Chauffeur and member of the FND,

being debriefed

tional leads and on positive intelligence concerning the

Cuban micro-wave system.

13. Valentin #PADRON (A 12 900 229).

subject, a former grocer in

Las Villas, vas debriefed on operational leads and positive

intelligence.

The leads which

subject urovided were considered

further exploitation.

subject had planned to

return to cuba legally but was prevented from doing so for

family reasons.

14. Jesus Gregorió «PEREZ, CKA 183. Subject, working. an independent

resistance network in

Cuba, specialized

in exfiltration of

friends and members of his group.

He offered to exfiltrate any

technicians and professional people.

After debriefing nim,

500 53a

came to PiPRIil to attend the funeral of his father.

He was recruited and trained in Si before he returned to Cuba.

He will be used as a communications link for the AMTAUP Net.

'éumercindo

*SIMON Sanchez (A 12 911 019)•

subject, a former

chauffeur in las villas offered to provide bond fides for

contacting

Ga communicator for Capt. Felix

1 F*TOPRES, a militia commander in lemedios, Las Villas.

CLASSIFICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECDTT

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2.

10 INJ

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

UF6A-4543

olso offerca to re-infiltrate to contact

could not provide surficient detailed biographic data on

with which to risk using a KUBARK internal asset to

contact hin.

An investigation was initiated through the

ANOIs to deternine more biographic data so serious consider-.

ation could be given for contactinal

1r. "M

Manuel Felix

SUAREZ POZO (A 12 903 186).

CiC

subject,

allavyer

and a former underground member in Havana,

was ciebriefed

further on

operational leads.

Leiters to

the more important

members of his

potential..

Nt

(18.

Miguel Archangel

#SUAREZ Valdez (A 12 895 991).

subjcot, a

former resistance group melber,

was debriefed further

Onl

operational leads anu

is currantly expecting a courier from

the resistance group leader in tavana, who allegedly nas agents

who nave access to a soviet COMINI

in Enton.

19. Miguel Angel "YANES Garcia (A 12 903 525).

Subject, a former

Em vee defeated stry of public works and posember of the

intelligence.

Subject refused to reveal any FND asset:

uba and he had only margianl intelligence to provide

END OF DISPATCi

3IR

500 53g

5-60

& 4.F)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

3.

---

