# 104-10263-10138

## Page 1

104-10263-10138

SECRET

ri :

8. 3

ROUTING AND RECOND SHEET

1E:RUE::SAS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. ca back. Detach back

flap and formard 1o RID.

2.

Destroy front cover sLeet, unless it

records

significast action

taken or

consents requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no, and title shom are not

proper, insert proper file ro. bolou

and forward document to RIDIAN.

PROPEA FILE NO.

MUOY

AL/WE

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

PILL, IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTE

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

OFFICER'®

EMITIALE

10 JUN 13E1 9 JUN 1S22

IVE.

ABLADLE

20181

19 JN 1E2

alia

WE / 6

Eve zone c

June

gone

5 to%:

Sheld for

to read.

03

C

C

10.

2-53

JRH

12.

Bind For have

13.

Mus. Crit

his

HAND CARRY

10

10 Fin 1962

dege

14.

6 41S6

files

15.

RETURN THIS DOCUMEAT LO IN NOT LICHO ILMING BEFORE

fr Is FIED

- RESCRICTED TO -

TRACE

ALQUEST

DATE MICHOPILMED

ABSTRACT

INDEX

501099788

PILS NUMERA PRIMARY COUNT

DOCUMENT DATE

2a 94 855(2)

DOCUMINT NUMDEA

24n.up6t

DELA 36513

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, vE

SECRET /

C:LA-36313

FROM

SURECT

ACTION BROUIED

REFERENCED

Chief of Station, London RIF

SUDESK/AEZADIE /JAGUAR °/

FYI

OFLA-36215, 12 April 1962

201-294855

=*.7

24 May 1962

WARNEY FOR ADDUNG

I NO PESUNG LOURED

Salinist

5.0.: 150

Eir 381476

general status of the investigations on the leads

The s011on1n5, according to (SNIMPEDE)%

is the

provided in the AELADLE cas:

01 1.

(GAGUAR has set up a special ARLADLE section

under SMIMPEDE,

comprising research and investigative

functions,

which is physically segregated from otber

05(JAGUAR sections.

The personnel of the forer

search

section were brought into the AELADLE section

E109-4

and all normat

research en Soviet and satellite

I.B. has been

The personnel of the AELADLE

section are listed in the attachment (under separate

cover).

2.

Foreign Office:

Research and background

checks

are being conducted on all personnel who served

in Moscow in the period in question.

This is a tre-

mendously difficult jok and will take months, and the

Foreign Office category apparently will present the

most difficulty in localizing possible suspects.

The

three following possible suspects are being recalled

from their posta in the field and are under investiga

ton with a view to their eventual interrogation:

8. Tho female (archtvist) now 1n l

b.

The connunicator previously int

now in

110

The individual who, was to have been trang

ferred from Moscow to

Dio Only one person fits

this description od he is being recalled; there is

nothing suspicious in his background.

Admiralty: (SMIMPEDE)felt that there was good

promise for turning up a spy in this area in view of

the documents passed.

However, he has only been able

to narrow it down so far to eighteon possibilities,

none of whom have anything londing to suspicion in

their files.

le foresees, nuturaily, considerable

In narrowink It down any furthor.

4.

British Intellifence: Sinco AFLADLI's concep

tion of Britinh Intolliyonce nbrond included SHoriol

service attacho personnc! and some Foreign Office

tions (SMOTI) 18

conductink ita rowonrol and investivation

of its personnel who snived in Moncow in the poriod in

question (with no roni sispocta turned up yet) and

•\JAGUAR da actine on tho service and Foroin offico per

sonnel.

FastentiON

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONAYUATION OF

C SPAICH

-ECRET

OFLA-36513

5.

Helsinki and Vienna: Since AFLADLE was able

to furnish

names. or identilying information for this

category, (SMIMPSDD stated he has about fourteen specific

cases thus

far which will be given intensive investiga

tion.

lie feels it possible that this may

result in un

covering three or four agents from the fourteen cases.

(SINIPEDE) stated that he believes it fortunate

that the AELADLE defection occurred at this time be-

cause it is bound to have a definite long-tern value in

the tightening up of British security practices which

he felt were very insufficient. He bemoaned the fact

that he does not yet have a clear cut case (resulting

Iron the AlLADLE naterial) to table at this time to add

f:irther support to the recommendations made by the

Radcliffe Committee.

•n • Jun€

still under the impression that

AELADLE was refusing to talk.. laving been so

ALADLE wAS again cooperating. 0l SMIMPEDÈ) would like at

sone time to talk once more with AELADLE to review the

information developed so far; in fact, let him in on

the whole investigation in the hope that this will jog

his memory and stimulate him to further revelations.

Richund I Tels

RICHARD I. FELS

Attachment - Idens.

Dist:

* - WE w/att/usc

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ATTACHMENT TO OETA-36513

AELADLE SECTION

A. INVESTIGATIONS

(Ronald Symonda) 06

Ronnie Reed> 06

W1111am Colfer.) 06

B. .

RESEARCH

Patriok Stewardo6

Penelope Scrutton ob

Frieda Smal1)06

ob(H188 Snu MacKenzle)

24

One other woman

but Possible Joan fussel1-King),6

Section, unidentified,

---

