# 104-10192-10046

## Page 1

104-10192-10046

RETURN TO CIA

Backaround Use Only

Educe

4i0b

and Lace enslas

111 1O due to-

CLASSIRED MESSAGE

SECRET

Г

131.

oclo

FL,

CHIPSE, SUPER,

CANO 4, Ci, CLOPS, ClIC 2

, WH S, Vi, FILE, CS/RF.

R

P

R

SECRET 1318532N

-3 1} 2:252

DIR INFO LANT

MISHES

SARR CITE WAVE €245

-MALE BINDERS

INTEL TYPIC

BSTR

SUPDATA: ASCLATTER-I WIO WAS ASKED FOR,

MASO CV PT SOATS BY

JOHNSON AT :CURCE'S HOUSE 1$ FEBRUARY

RID:

INDEX FILED 13185052.

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUSA.

SUBJ:

Pos!.

: IMPENDING AIR STRIKE AGAINST CUSA BY THE MIRR

D01: 18 FESRUARY 65

PADA: UNITIO STATES, MIAMI (12 FEBRUARY ÓS)

iFc-ú5s5

4PR

MICROFILMED

MAR 1. 1365

DOG. MICRO. BILA

A MIAMI SUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEMIG. THE SOURCE MAS CONTACTS NO RECCONIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO.

U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

MY CONJANTI

R

P

Y

1-00 | 389

i22

19-300-20

135-56

i oi

TDCSDS-315/00512-65

XX I ROUTINE

I PRIORTY

SASED ON UFG-6696

IP/A'CLATTES/:

: CATE DISTRISUTES.

23 FE38L0Y 2300 = 65.

SECRET

LAISON: ::

FRUCTION BY CH

RI COPY

IS PROHIBITED.

RI 'COPY

CosY

No.

P

1J9:

---

## Page 2

CONFOENTA.

CENTRAL INT::LIOECE AGLIOY

Incelligence Intormation Cable

O ROUTINE

COUNTRY

94°507

14:O.

CUBA

10 FECRUASY 1965

T0C508-315100512-65

DISTR. 13 FEBRUARY 1965

SUSJECT

•POSSIBLE IMPELING AIR STRIKE MAINST GLIA SY THE MIRR

LASSICO UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 FEBRUERY 1965)

RES

IN: 88216

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6696

¡USINESSYAN N4O SAS A LESIDENT CE HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE

CONTACIS ANO RSCOGNIZE MIM AS CHALLE: TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE:

1. CHA FI GRUARY IGES SILL

FO-ASON, AN AVERICAN PILOT IO

ARRINGES THE SOPORT ASPECES CE AIR STRIKES AÑMINST CUSA BY ORLANDO

BOSCA

AVILA : :OVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

MIRA, INGU• LUTIONAL NOVENENT FOR REVELUTIGNARY RECOVERY), SAIO

THAT HE WAS 1R:ING TO OSTAIN INFORICATIEN ON TUO CUSAN PT BDATS -

MiTICH ARE BELLEVED TO SE ASSIENCO TO THE. WESTERN ENO OF SAMIA MONDA

•Ü THE MORT. E IST OR PIME DEL S.D.PROHINCE. JOHNSON SAIC TRAT

THISE SOATS

: OSSERVE SY THE LOT HO MNDE THE 17 DANUARY RAID

C: THE UNAOià SUGAR SALE IN PIAL DEL FIG PROVINCE. THE BEATS

¡D'CRABIAE AFOCSIDE RÃO NARUGA SICÃE O: NO CDILCO SLAIPS MISLA ISO EPARIEE DI ILO LADIOSACE RAWA TIle

N03 1: 1 int, ino tranesispira de presidiiva di Wiieh la nay Maaser lo da unaulhories person la probibitad by ier

CCMRCENTI-2

iME CESE.

DER PATROL COAST GUARD

. ЭХО

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONCENTAL

+8:525-315160512-65. 32X39X

: 5RE LIT UP AT THEIR MCGRAGE WHEN iNE PILOT SAN THEM. JOHNSON IS

INTERESTEO. IN DETERMING IF THESE SORTS ARE PERNANENTLY ASSIGNEO

TO iMIS AREA.

=. JOiNSON SALO THAT ME AND THE PILOT OF THE NIAGARA RAIO O

WOULD LIKE TO TARGET THE NEXT MIAR RAID AGINST THE AT SOATS, BUT

BOSER INSISTS THAT THE NEXT TARGET BE ANOTHER SUGAR MILL.

SOSCH

"CLE JOINST: HIS OSUECTIVE IS TO PROVORE FIDEL CASTRO RUZ INTO

S-COTING DE : ONE OF THEIR AIRCRAFT IN CROIR TO CAUSE AN INTERNATIONAL

INCIDENT. SISON SAID THE RAIO IS TO TAKE PLACE "IN THE VERY NEAR.

FUTURE. "

3O JOHASON SAID THAT HE HAS CRGANIZED AND DIRECTEO THE 17

JANUARY STAIRE OVER CUSA ANO HAD ALSO PROCUREO THE PILOT FOR

THE MISSION ¡E SAID THEY HAD RUN INTO SERIES OF DIFFICULTIES

ÀS A RESULT OF JACK WRIGHT'S PLAVE GRASH: AT FREEPORT, GRANO BAHAMA

ISLANO, ON : FORUARY, WHICH WAS A SECEND ATTEMPT TO RAID CUSA FROM

THAT ARCAO HE SAID THEY WOULO THEREFORE FOLLOW THE SAME PATTERN

THEY FCLLOWES ON THE NIAGARA RAID SY TAKING OFF FROW AN AIRFIELD

IN THE CANTO STATES AT A POINT LACRE THERE IS A "SLIND SPOT IN THE

TAGAR NETO" ' LEY WOULD REENTER ¡NITED STATES TERRITORY AT THE

SAVE POINT. I SOURCE COMMENT: :: IS MIGHLY COUSTFUL THAT THIS IS

1-- METHOD INE MIRR USEO IN THE PAST TO LEAVE AND REENTER THE UNITEO

PAGE 2

FIELO CONMENT: FOR INFORICATICN GN THE CRASH CE JACI WRIGHT'S

ARORA. iD SEE TDESD5-315/85379-55 DATES 3 FESRUARY 1965%.

DENTAL

Caesa

---

## Page 4

8,216

CONSIDENTIAL

TDCS 08-315/00512-GAOE j

So RICLE DISSEN:

CIRCLANT, CINESO, COMP: STFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STEiG, FOL, CUSTONS, LENS, 30R:ER PATROLA iND USÇG.

END OF MESSAGE

---

