# 104-10194-10016

## Page 1

104-10194-10016

amates

ROUSE SELECT COSHITTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS STUFF NOZBERS

SECRET

FILL TITL/MMBER/VOLUME: TANASCEE, GIsALE

INCLUSIVE DATES: 5: 14/56

tir 9/5/63

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DiELi of leani

•ROỌN: 5: 13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

6/28/78

DATE

RETURNED

D.

REVIEWED. BY

(PRINT NAVE)

HARDWAY-

SIGNWIUNE OF

REVIENING OSFICIAL

Dans tardway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REVOVED FROM THIS FILE

TARASOFT, ANNA*".

• 25935

---

## Page 2

14-00000

28 March 1957

Mrs. sulna Tarasoft

2819 Gainesville Street, S. B., Apt. 202

Washington, D. C.

Dear lirs. sarasolf:

'He wish to inform you that the preliminary processing of

your application has been accomplished and that you may enter

on duty immedlately on a temporary basis at Grade GS 4, sal-

ary $: 415.00 per annum as Clerk.

Your temporary appolntment will be subject to taking an

oath of office, signing a loyalty affidavit, and completing a med-

Ical examinition which will include determination of physical

health and emotional stability. I you enter on duty based on this

prelim.inary processing, you will be assigned to the Interim Assign-

ment l'ection pending the completion of the full processing and a

final security interview. The Interlm Assignment Section Is a

"'pool" where you will be doing clerical work of a routine nature.

Should anything of an unfavorable nature arise during this period,

your employment will not result in & permanent appointment; other-

wise you then will be placed on duty in the position for which em

ployed.

If you are Interested in this temporary position please call

Mrs.

Jon Executive 3-6115, extension 2781, as soon

as possible to advise her of the exact date you will report. We

would appreciate your selecting a Monday. You may prefer to awalt

the completion of the full processing which will require about 60 to

90 more days.

In any event we would apprectate your calling Mrs.

Juromytly and informing her of your plans.

In the meantime,

It is raquested that you submit three passport-size photographs o!

yourself as soon as possible.

Pleaso report to the Receptlorist at Curle Hall at 8:15 a.m.

and ack for Mrs.

on the reporting-for-duty date that you

establish with this office. Curle Hail Is located at the intersection

of 23rd Street, Independence Avenue and Chlo Drive, S.W., with

entrarce on Ohio Drive.

---

## Page 3

imployees of this /gency are entitled to the regular Unlted

States Government leave and retirerent berefits.

The gross salary quoted will te subject to deductions for

Feder Income tax and 6i percent for the United States Civil

Servies Retirement Fund. In additien, the benefits of low-cost

group Ilfe irisurance are avallable to Federal civilian employees.

The enclosed pamphlet outlines the features of the program and

lists thu amount which will be deducted from your salary each pay

perlod for this term insurance. This insurance is not obligatory.

However, ll you do not wish coverage, which is automatic, you

should sign a Walver of Life Insurarce Coverage form at the time

you erter on duty.

You will not recelve a pay check fox approximataly four

weeks after you enter on duty.

It you have any problems, Mrs.

will be glad to discuss

them with you when you call.

Very truly yours,

G. M. Stewart

Director of Personnel

Enclosures (2)

ulfe Insurance Pamphlet

Map

OF/CURRE 3/bjs(EukixiX (PI)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CLERICAL & CONMUNICATIONS

REPORT OF INTERVIEW

CONFIDENTIAL

DAIL AND PLACE ON

2-5 and 2-12-57

SOURCE

Husband; arency employee

MARiTaL

STATUS

M3 2 chiluren F

3A 032 Anna iN

PENS OR AMY ADORESS

2819 Gainesville Street S.F., Wasiängton, D.C. (Apartrient 202)

AVAILABIGITO DATE

INDICES CLEARANCE REQUESIED

52 a

UATE OF AIRTH

5-5-23

BELEANONE

LU 4-1360

TELEPHONE

POSITIDS RLCOMUENDED (GradE and Title)

GS-la Clerk

TEST SCIRES

ITPING

OTHER

•CCEPTANLE

STATION

TJuis. or alein

LIMITATIONS

axias linder conficions

ole per husbandg assignments

DAtE

ssнr0 (spocaly)

MA. AL TH

FOREIGN HELATIVES

Generally good

So 20220 claimed

BACKGROUND MID EVALUNTION

SEaN'St Kor Seemsey and duey MOS and lengeh of line on ench, tearnond, intos of entranio and drai

INDICES CLEARANCE

IR 1o SO / S8 le Medical

EVALUATION ANO PACAGRUUIO DATA (include education and sort esperiencoy

Mise Tarasoff is the wife of Boris Tarasoff, FBIll employee. She first made application

shortly after her husband's EOD

while she and the children were still in California.

Attempts to have her te: ted and Interviewed on the West-Coast were unsuccessful.

The farily is all now gathered in D.C.j the children are in school; arrangements

have be:a nace for the care of the children during the lage between the end of

the schoold ray and the end of the parents work day.

Test results are very interestin,. It would appear that Mrs. Tarasoff shoudd be

able to co a most adequate job in a clerical job of the most, deadly reutine nature.

I'm quite sure such positions are avallable in the Agency.

Mr!. Tarasoff apparently has a reasonably good conmand of Russian, both spoken and

written; I gathered that some of the houselield conversation 1a carried or in that

language, HOWEVEN, I gave her absolutely no assurance that we would be ablo to

utilize this skill.

She is interested in employnent as soon as possible and I discussed an Indices

Cleararce wito her.

The Pool, the tenporary indefialto appointment, et al, were

described in lurid detail. She is wiiling and interested.

Personally, I found Mrs. Taragoff to be a very pleasant little wonan. She is slight

and slender with reddish hair; sniles easily and appears as easy to work with,

GS-L Cler' agreeable and recommended.

INDICES CLEARANCE REUESTED

-N: ES 22A1410

DATE REPORT ARE TOROS FORBARDED TO MEADOLAÓSO DOTE

Terraries

DoLatooney, Ch/CuPPD/CP

I MAY 56 182b

CONFIDENTIAL

14-361

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

(Than Pillod la)

EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION

After my discussion with the flold represontative, I wish to acknowledde the existence

of the folloulad conditions of employment:

(1) Upon ay árrival In Mashiniton I underatand I will de rested lo deseraldo

(a) my general apeltude:

(b) ay typing sk11l 18 I an seing considered for a

sypind position, the minimum standarde for which are to cords per alauto dot

speed: (cl my stenographic akill 1f I an being consliered for a stenographie

or secretarial position,

standards for sited are 0d words per

minute accurate transeription with at least 40 nords per minute set cypind

(2)

I understand that should 1 fall to need the mininua standards as outlined

above I will be given an opportunity to recelve refresher iraininé.

As s00h

as I as able to meat the prescribed standards I will thes le assigned to a

poslelon within the organization.

If, w1thin a reasocable perlod of time, &

should fall to noes the mininus skills regutrements, : underseand that I will

De asalined to a position not requiring specifle sellis li such a position

exists.

(For example:

An Indivldual Initially selected as a Clerk-Typlat

who 1a not able to quailly fully as a typlot would de assigned to any avall-

able clerical posltlon.)

B. InItial Placement:

I understand

thera are Initial placenen: procedures, laciadiad the resting

and refresher training outlined above, thas may

reguire & perled of several

sieeks bofore 1 an given my specifle job agaignment.

¿hare bad explained

to me the operations of the Interla asalinent group bere 1 usy expect to

receive she testiná and refresher raining nentioned and here i will work

pending my specific job assignent.

C, Overseas Posalbill!les:

11) I have not been promised an overseas assignment.

I understard i aug: des-

onstrate fully ay abilitles while on a washington, D.E.

which I way be considered for whatever positions Is

The deciaton to

assign se to an overseas. foss resis with respon

s1dle Indlulduals In the Washington office.

12) I understand that fron past experience of the organiestion i may expece to

renain on a Washington assignment fron 14

to 2 years lesbre i say be consid

eped for an overseas post.

13, I understand that overseas assignments in the clerica: and jezera. adainis-

crative calefories reguire,

for sost positions, typiad and siesographic

sk111s.

General:

I understand thai any eventual assiganent to a professiosa: irre pos1:10a, 1f

I an quallfled for such by specific education, eralainá, or experleace,

w111

depend upon the existence of a suliable vacancy and ta: no proaises to the

contrary have deen sado

to me. "

Dato: Felung 12, 1021

Have! Taria

Signature of Appli

JAM

894

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CENTRAL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25. D. Co

Applicant Information

Sheet No. 1

To all persuns applying for employment

with the Ceatral Intelligence Agency:

This paper is the first step in applying for employment or consultant

status with the Central Intelligence Agency.

No application may proceed

beyond this first step if the applicant is not in agreement with the

conditions stated below:

General Considerations:

1. The National Security Act of 26 July 1947 (Public Law 253, 80th

Congress) which created the Central Intelligence Agency places upon the

Agency the responsibility:

a, "to advise the National Security Council in matters concerning

such intelligence activities of the Government departments

and agencies

as relate to the national security;

b. "to make recommendations to the National Security Council

for the coordination of such intelligence activities of the depart-

ments and agencies" of the Government as relate to the national

security;

c.. "So correlate and evaluate intelligence relating to the

national security,

and provide for the appropriate dissemination

of such intelligence within

the Governmens...:

d. "so perform, for the benefit of the existing intelligence

agencies, such additional services of common concern as the National

Security Courcil determines can be more efficiently accomplished

centrally;

e. "to perform such other functions and duties related to

intelligence affecting the national security as the National Security

Council may irom time to time direct."

---

## Page 7

14-00000

The special characer of this national responsibility requires the Agency

to maintain correspondingly

special employment criteria which may be

different from the routine or normal employment standards of other Govern

ment departinents and agencies which do not have the highly sensitive reg-

ponsibility borne by the Central Intelligence Agency. It follows that the

investigation of applicants prerequisite to their acceptance is a time-

consuming process which, in addition to loyalty and security checks,

includes evaluation of competence, physical and emotional fitness, und

availability of a suitable position at such time as employment may be offered.

This is called "clearance" of an applicant.

2. Investigation of in applicant may reveal something which prevents

his clearance - perhaps something, of which the applicant is genuinely unuware,

perhaps something which only the special employment criteria of the Agency

make unacceptable. In any cvent, adverse findings by the Agency ire con-

clusive and final so fur as the Agency is concerned, und no stilement of

specific reasons is made to the applicant.

3. Employment by the Central Intelligence Agency is not a right upon

which an applicant can insist. Offer of employment which is subject to full

clearance does not constitute a commitment on the Agency's part giving an

unsuccessful applicant grounds for any claim against the Agency. Acceptance

of employment upon the condition of clearance is at the applicant's risk,

taken with the knowledge that i very substantial percentage of applicants

are not cleared.

Statement of Understanding

and Agreement

I have read, understand, and agree to the foregoing General Consid

erations. If not accepted for employment by the Central Intelligence

Agency, I will make no claim or demand in conflict with those consid-

erations.

I have also seen and read Applicant Information Sheet No. 2.

---

## Page 8

SECRET

(WRon pilled 1").

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE

PREPARED

6 September 1963

SERIAL DUNGER

025935

NATURE

TARASOFF, ANNA

NO DENSONNEL ACTION

RESIGNATION (FROM LWOP)

A. ERVICTIVE DATE REQUESTED

•CATEGONY OF ENDLOTNENS

REGULAR

9.

L63

V TO CE

COST CENTER NO. CHARGE.

• .

FUNDS

abLe

28% AR

CF TOY

C• T0 €8.

ORGADILATIONAL

DESAGNATIONS

4227-1290-1000

10.

LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP CI STAFF

CS/CS/ DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

WASHINGTON, D.C.

88. POSITION TITLE

•8.

POJ0T+OA

NUNDER

19, CARECR SERVICE DESIGNATION

INTELLIGENCE CLERK

#.9997

14. CLASSI IZATION SCHEDULE (OS, L8, APE.)

I3. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

TO. GRADE AND STEP

GS

0301. 27

GS- 6

RENANAS

D

19, SALARY OR RATE

$ 5545

FROM: DDP/CI STAFF/CS/CS/DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT/

INTELLIGENCE CLERK/WASH., DoC. /N 9997

¿Lemorandum of Resignation attached

co to Security & Finance

Pecorded by

CSPD

Subject is re-employable in the opinion of CI Staff

Pi - ser

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

ByparB RumObSTARE

DATE SIGNED

1аB.

1- Big

649

FUME RICE

FERSONNEL

26. 3A!! 66 GATE

то.

по.

127. 2a?! 05 111

was.

00.

4341

REFERENCE

290.

CODl

35, VET, GGEGERENGE

• 36 SERV, COMO, CATE

137, LOad. CORp. DATE

CODE

15 23

31. SEDARATION

D2, CORREGTIGNIGANCELIATION DARN

1101

20, vl

38. CAMER CA:CODY

aAc,

sa.

то.

3".

J3, SECURITY

dEO.

40.

rs.

134, 568

EOD DATA

M$ at °n 148. 00,01

19 s

PROV/YAMP

PREDICTS SCVERRMENS SERVICE DATA

" LEAVE CA:.

CODE

cope

RAGON 10 SERVICE (ICES THAN SYRS)

19 SERMICE (RONE TABUS YES)

43.

FEDEMAL PAX CATA

FOuM carcurIO cOOR

2 = 40

STATE SAX DATA

tock

43.

POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

DATE APPROVED

1955P

Tie Betelender.

FORM 1152

# - 82

SECRET

---

## Page 9

• MEDIGN ESPECTIVE

SECRET

"aron pillad 11).

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

FOR

*OLLOBINS ALASON,

(Dote)

Sir 17: 1: 59 PM '83

MAN: RI10S

N. 14h0r

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL O5

222.0..

DaTE

"gIGNED

SIGNATURE OF:CHPLOTAE

FORMARO COMMUNICATIONS.

INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS.

TO THE

FOLLOWING ADDRESS

(Number, Straps. Ciry, zone, Stales

Items 1 thru 7

and

Items 9 thru 18a

Item 5

Item 9

Item

11

Item 180 -

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating

office should fill in euch of the referenced

Items 3. thru 7 and 9 thru 18. require Information

items.

to the action requested, and Nor

which pertains only

to the current status ot the em-

ployec unless specific items

remain unchanged.

"Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

WAE

Part. Time

Detail Orit

Consultant

Temporary.

Detail In

Military

Temporary - Part Time

"Organizational Designations" should show all levels or organization

pertinent to identifying the location of the position:

Ma,Jor Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)

Office, Major Staff

Division or Staff (subordinate to first. line)

Branch

Section

Unit

"Position Title" should

reflect the standard abbreviated title given

In the most current edition of the Position Control Register or rc-

ported

on Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authericazion.

Signature should be that of the official authorized to arprove for

the Career Sorvice to which the employee belongs.

If more than one

Career Service is Involved, the guining Career Service stuld sucrove

and the other Career Service should concur in Item 1s,

ROUTING - The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office

or fersonnel

through the appropriate Career Service official(s). In the case or requests

specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance approval of or noticiestion to

the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only will be

sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

26

SLF1. 03

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

DEF

1. SERIAL NUMBER

2. HABE (LASI SIASS-BIODLE)

025935

J. MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TARASOFT ANNA

RESIGNATION FROM LHOP

• 10 V

FUNDS

(8 10 8

*: ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGRATIONS

y 10 1F

CE 10 0F

•. EBSACRIVE DATE.

ing.

DA

09;08 (63

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

4227 1890 1000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

$. CATEGORY OF EMPICYMENT

REGULAR

S. 136 OR OPMER LEGAL AUINORITS

18. POSITION TITLE

INTELLIGENCE CLERK

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (6S, 18, ats.)

TS, OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

03

0301.27

18 POSITION NUMBER

9997

16. GRADE AND STEP

06 4

19. SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

5549

18. REMANNS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Firm Liso

Usa Provious

Edition

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

¿Ohan Felled Ins

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED

5 Jille 1963

FLINDER

025935

TARiSONE,

ANNA

NATCHE

OF

PERSOSTEL

ACTION

iddle)

iC30

0a213

CATEGORY OF ENPLOYMIMT

REGUL/R

• Y0 Y

FLINOS

CF TO Y

ORGASIZATIOGAL CESIGNATIONS.

Y TO CF

CE TO CE.

7. COST CENTER NO, CHARGE.

AbLE

8.

3: 27-1990-1000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP CI STAFF

CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

POSITION TITLE

WiSHINGTON,

D.C.

POSITION NUMAER

Encotion

CLASSIFICATION SONINURE (GS, LB,

GS

47 3997

15. OCCUPATIONAL

C3C2.27

16. GRADE ANO STEP

2320.07

66

4

BULGANELN SLATILL LEOIENABEEN

D

17.

SALARY

OR RATE

8 5,545•

10.

BE APARTHER

iTie

FRON:

DDP CE DEUT/SPECIAL INVESTICATION COUP/PROJECIS IR/ITELL CLK/WASII., D.C/0151

Eaployee's last sorking day l June 1963.

IWOP (IS 20-1 Fara. 10 8.) Leave of absence to accorpuny husband to new ststion

not to exceed 9 days.

ce to security and finance

To legin upon expiratits

samma lity

Reaordad by

CSPD

SIGNATURE DE DEQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNEO

paris.

38

ZB. MIE ENDINES

то.

18

WHO SI STAFF

5 Jun 63

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE

USE

OF

THE OFFICE OF PERSUNNEL

Dis :: 609:A:

33. 9790

26, MPOTESy iS. DATE CE a aTro

0184888518

SCo:

GODE

CODE

33400

75743

05105/23

.

•.

RET SEMENT DATA

31. 5P907A1:66! 33.

ecer

=.

TERMS GUARARE CE CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DARE SIGNED

4/8k63

27. 2A7E OF 151

JO. SECURIT"

36, SEE

150.

4c.

35.

D1. Pact is

cOor

+ 87905

EOD DATA

e: 1rd.

00ap, thie

3S. CAREER CATEGORY

CAR!RESY

G90E

PECT/TEMS

tsar

no 0, tre 105. ever

1- •Es

casE

POETTES COGN CORE 16T

-a Patrious 1101159

++ F01

TSIRGTNY

CODE

43.

FEDERA: TAR CA'N

PINA ERECUI: 600€

TES

Side can para

TaM 22: 0011194

= 5.

POSITIDS CONTROL CERIASICATION

12192

FORM

1152

SECRET

APPROVAL

Bunsions

fIC;

AVICHES DOROGRA

DATE APPROVED

(0)

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

¿ason filled Iny

DANE PREPAPID

. REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

5 June 1963

SERIAL NUMBER

2. MAMt (4008-Piral-Hiddie)

025935

NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TARASOFT, ARRA

IWOP AND REASSIGINENT

• TO CF

8. FUNDS

CF TO Y

.

ORGAXILATIONAL

DESIGAATIONS

CE T0 6F

A. EFFECTIVE DATE RIQUESTEO

9. CATEGORY. OF IMPLOYHENT

* 0 10 7 10

6. |

T

63

J. COST CENTER NO, CHARGE-

ABLE

•.

REVULAR

Fice not personnel

3227-1990 1000

10, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DOP CI STAFF

CS DEVELOFNENT COMPLEMEVT

1I. POSITION TITLE

HIELL CLERI

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB. CPC.) 1S. OCCUPATIONDA SERIES

CA3

10. REMARKS

0313.01

HASHING LOSe

D. Co

1I. POSITION NUMBER

19.

CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

$7. 9998

GRADE AND STEP

6

D

17.

SALARY OR

RATE

5,545.

FROG: DDP CI STAPE/SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GAOUP/PROJECES BR/INTELE CLI/WASH., D. C/0151

Eaployse a last vorking day I June 1963.

INDP (HE 20-1 Para, 10 d.) Loave al abseaco to accompany husband to sow station

not to exceed 90 days.

ce to sacurity and finance

ÓF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGhiE

GRATURE OE LANEE ЧЕНУС! АГАРОВІМ

DATE, SIGNED

)FFICEA

Ca STAFF

5 Jua 63

T9. 152t00120. GMoL0v.f2r.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLOSE CS5

OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

CFFICE CHOING

22. STAT PO

123. 103717

58 =207951 25.2015 06 9195r

126. J40E 05 JA35

CODE

coo:

COOt

CC3E

42A46 ROC

Ds.

ca.

5o.

28. 9IE ESPIRES

D$.

29 SPECIAL

DEFERENCE

36. SERO.

RETIRENCUT DATA

Ts:

- FICA

Ccor

+ D044$

Gate

T57. 1rый.

ECHO. DATE

21, Sireia"

39:0 2:.7

3:. 5E1

эç0.

.

EOD DATA

38. Canida cRESRY

can'sist

--.T

PHOX 'TED

CODE

=r.

DEVICUS CONCANENT SERVICE DATA

- tO PaLLIOUS SERVICE

• #A.

SATAN (N STRUICE

281A8

CODE

$3.

TAL JAS A

ADAR ERICUTED

ac?a8 50015 1004

2 - 03

A3. POLITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

1$- J,P. APPROVAL

FORM

4.82

1152

SECRET

(4)

EXCE

GROUP!

15 CUSS DIGANG

---

## Page 13

SECRET

FRICANED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

25 November 1960

2. NAUI (LAIS-FIrEP-HiSEI*)

125935

J. NATURE OF

PERSONAEL-ACTION

TARASORE, ANNA

•CEFECTIVE DATE REUNESTEN

CATEGORY OF INFLOVAINT

PROMOTION

REGULAR

* TO CP

5. FUNDS

CF

TOY

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

CF

70. CE

8. COST' CENTER NO, CHARGE.

ABLE

1227-1001-10

1O. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP CT STAFF

SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP

PROJECTS BRANCH

POSITION TATLE

WASHINGTON,

D. C.

12. POSITION NUMDEA

0:A. P:A CONTROL NO.

8 3. CAREER SERVICE

DESIGNATION

D

INTELL • CLERK

DA. CLASSIFICATIDN SCHEDULE COS, LE. ORE.ST1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

GRADE AND STEP

GS

(0101-0661

0301.27

06

nt z

IT. SALARY OR MATE

149300-11945

FRON: DDP CI STAFT/SIG/PROJSCIS BRANCH/0151

Merrorandum of recommendation attached.

SIGNATURE DE

• SIGNATURE OF CARLER SER

STACE RELOW

CC3s

1322.50

PERNENTE

75:13

coor

+ 4444

35.OTE 59556950K

case

137. 100:. C0, Ca°;

Co.

i30e

83+ 94019

5894158 (00,98 tmat?2.

ач.

POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

+: 61-05-11

0S831900.1

8085 1152

13.12

i 38.

"{s

c:or

CoDe

16.:0ue

SECRET

2:A635.10006 CAra

tort

tar sata

DEOD DAT.

..÷

APPROVINE

OrFICER

127. 201 15 11.

2E0.

ac.

stant de.

c;a16 :aN 2a?a

scor

asien s9a9e seir

¿8 1e org

141

---

## Page 14

14-00000

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. Sonol No.

18. Namo (Las Firs: Middle)

Anno Codas. ser

125935

TARASOFF ANNA

05 05 23101.8

F 2

0. CSC Rom. TD. CSE Or Oiher Lewist Sucharty

"ILE

SCD

Mo Da

04

08

Yr:

Yos.

57/Nº: 2

Codo

. Yos-1|Cod

10.g

50 USCA 403 &

B. 00

100

14.

Organizational Designations

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Code

15. Location Of Official Sration

( Station Codo

DOP

CI STAFF

SPECIAL PROJECTS DIV

PROJECTS BRANCH

16. Dept. - Fiold 118. Position Vitio

Willd -

Figa

INTEL CLK

81. Grade a Stop

28. Salary Or Roto

183. SD

04 7

2

ao $ 3850.00 DS

5412

WASH., D. Co

75013

18. Position No.

T19. Sev. EU. Decup. Seres

0151.05

GS

0301.27

21. Dato Di Grade 85, SI Que ve.

20. Appropriation Number

04 : 08 | 57

07 : 20 1 58

sopes: 4878-2700-17-001

ACTION

Coulo: 30. Separation Dura

27. Nature Of Action

Code

$8.

Promotion

Regular

11C38

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Cods

38. Location Of Olficial Station

Station Codo

31. Organizational Designations

DDP/CI Stali

Special, Projects

Div

Projects Branch

33. Dope - Field

T34. Position Tile

Deot

Ustid •

TCode

intel Clk

4r20

3a. Grado a Siep

39. Salory Or Rote

5

1

$ 4040.00 pa

Washington, D.C.

140. SD

DS

35. Position No.

0151.05

OS

43. Appropriation Numter

9-2700-17-001

30. 50n: 137. OEcua Series

0301.27

141. Dote Of Grado / 42. Ai Dua

Do.

Yr.

1 Mo.

SOURE OF REQUEST

= LEh10S9

TC. Roquos Asprovod By (Signature And Title)

1. порав мо Вила

c/cI upport

3. For Addinanal Information Coll (Namo a Telephono Err.)

8537.

Clearance

Signauro

CLEARANCES

Cleuronca

S. Herman Horton

Signature

DC/CI Staft

Data

Pos. Control

C. Classification

Remarks

Eromotion recomendations

attached.

IF. Approvad Bi

" Dele

perto'

(4)

FORM

1159

---

## Page 15

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. Sonal No.

8. Naze (saintlicio)

N35935

SCD

00.

TARASORE ANNA

B Co des:

= QSC Or Other Logal Authorisy.

1.03

11 SO USCA 103 1

28 February 1958

Ario CA 20S

4. Vor. Fiel

. 3.. 504

6. 05•

EOD

Mo

Da

tr.

None o

Code

5 Pr-g

051

05

23

10 Pg.8

0

F

10. Aome AM:Juv.

18.

Mo.

11. FEGLI

Diz

Ye.

Yos-1

'Code

No-8

Ma

04.

2

LCD

Do.

08

Mo

04

Da.

Yr:

13

57

Ye.

Yos -

57

No : 1

Code

.2

15?

14. Organizational Designations

DOS OFFICE OF PERSONCE

PERSONNEL ASSIGAMENT CIV

PLACEMENT BR CLERICAL

18 Dops. - Fiold

INTERIM ASS GENT T

Code

2322

12

CLERK

21. Grude & Step

28. Salary Or dera

83. SD

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Code

15. Location Of Official Siation

Station Codo

2931 WASHi. P.

18 Position No.

15013

19. Serv. 80. Occup Sories

04 1

3415

UD

IGS

24. Dato 01 Grado|85. PSI Duo

80. Appropriation Number

Mo.

Mo.

Du.

Yr.

104 108 152 104 120 155

18 6509 20

ACTION

0301.26

27. Narure Of Action

Code

89. Typo Di Enploydo

(Codol 30. Separation Data

Reassigmont

Rogular

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Organizational Dosignarians

Code

32. Location Of Official Station

DDP/CI Staff

Special Projeota Division

Washlagton, D. G.

? Projects Branch

33. Dera. - Wield

5412.

T34. Pesition Tria

Dipt

Codel

ES. Pesition No.

ustid.

Frga

D

Intol Clat

139. Grode a Step

39. Solan Or ire

140. SO

Station Code

33. Serv.T37, Occup. Series

3415.00

DS

A. Requested B, (Name And Title)

8. For additional Information Call (Mise a Telechore Ext.)

x 4281

157.05

0301.27-

41. Date Ol Grade | 42. PSI Duo

73. Appropriation Number

Mo. Da.

Ye.

Mo.

Da

31 1571

126188% 8-2705-27

SOURCE OF REQUEST

C. Roquest ArDepreN Ey (Sign

Cura And Tito,

threates

Flagrance.

Signor

A. Coraar Board

8. Pes. Control

C. Clositication

Romarks Pomparary double slot with

THAR

1:2001

roti

CLEARANCES

Date

Cles/once

Signature

D.

Placement

E.

F. Approved 9.

for Blotting purposes adly.

5/20/53

Dote

3500

so..

1 MAR SY

1158

SECRET

(*>

---

## Page 16

14-00000

canally rariling

diderel.

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. Serial No.

7.

SCD

Da

Te

Z. Numo (Last-Fire-Siddle)

3. Dots. Of Biren

4. Vat. Prof.

Mo

Nong-0

Mrs. Anna Tarasa'f

05

03201

8. CSC Roimi 9. CSC Or Orher Logal Authorily

10. Apm.Allidor.01.FEGLI

Mo

0e

2! January 1558

+$ H

A. CS: HOD

Đal

12.

Mo

F

LCO

- No.? 1

13. Ence.

Yes. 1'

No

• 2

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Code

15. Location Of Official Station

Washiniton, Do Co

Station Codo

Division D

Projoct Arnax/Project PB Jointly

Branch 2 - Section B

la Dopo.. Fiold

117. Posinion Tidlo

Dalid: D

Code

Clerk

Fean •

21. Geado & Stop

22. Salary Or Roto

18. Position No.

T8. Some 20, Decup. Series

0301.261

26. Dose Of Grode 125. PSI Due

3073.12/907

26. Appropelation Number

Clo

3415.00

8230023

27. Nature Ol Acelon

Cade

Reassignment

ACTION

29. El. Dote.

10 1 2

Ye

29. Type Of Employee

Codo 30. Separotion Dera

Recular

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Code

J1. Organisational Designollons

DDS/Vilice of Porsonnel

Fersonnel Assignment Division

Placerent Branch (Clerical)

Interie Assignment Soction

33. Dope.- Fiald

34. Position Tiele

Sept.

Codo

32. Location O1 Ollielal Station

Statlon Codo

Hashington, D. C.

39. Posirion No.

Js Sarv. (37. Decup, Series

Clerk

13. Grade & Step

39. Salary Or Rate 140.50

1

$ 3115.00

Requested By (Name And Tirlo)

B. For Additional Information Call (Nama & Talephono Ext.)

x 1281

Claspanco

A. Career Board

3. Pos. Control

C. Classifiention

Rebars

Signoture

53: 0301,26

AT. Dore Of Grade 142, FST Due

43. Appropriation Number

No Da

so a let "1sl evenes

C. Roquest Approred By (Signature And Tirto)

Fice Mitation

CLEARANCES

Date

Cleeranco

Signature

D. Plocement

Date

E.

F. Approved By

FCRM 11520

5-57

Cared it

132/58

SEGRET

2C. L die.

---

## Page 17

SECHEZ

*2k0t90-FORN 52

1070-4558

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in ilems 1 through: 18 and A through D except 6B and 7 unlais othervise intructed.

I applicoble, obtain resignation and fill in sepsration dala on reverse.

1. MAll (Ale. - Mina--Alro. - Ona firan nama dui

¡alial and curracio)

2 GATE CS BETY

¿ RICUEST WA

Ng. Anna Tarasoft

# MATCRE

OF ACTION REQUISILD:

A FRASOnNEl (Simily a hairer appointeroll, procrotion, saporarion, aio-)

15 Max 1923

26 June 57

SMOTHLM

Reasaignment

I POSiTION (Spowily whether derables, Ohando drade or pillo, afo.)

B. APPROVED:

G5.0301.26-

BU

#5423

, POSITICH THIE AND

WUMBER

$3415.00 pose

& SLAVICE, GRADE ARG

ZAAL SE

DDS/Office of Personnel

Personnel Assignuant Division

Placement Branoh (Clerical)

Interim Assignmant Section

Nashington, Do Go

OESIGNATIONS

IE HEADQUAATERS.

To Clark

65-030% 25-4

DOP/FI Staff

Division D

Projoct Annox

Project P B Jointly

Branch 2

Section B

BVP-3073-12/397-4

931:15.00

naD

DEPARTNENTAL

A, REMARRS (U'so :8r02s0 il nocessary)

Present incumbent is pending reassignment.

more dicking. Chork TypisT

I FIELD OR BEPARTPPRRAS

# REQUESTED AT (Nero and titlo)

O AROULET APPACOtO 3T

Signature:

I FOR SOCITIONAL INFORMATON CALL (R'AID ANd lalogune estension)

7 4281

13 VETERAN PREFERENCE

WW. OTHER S.PT.

Title:

NEW

14 FOSITION CLEISISICATION ALTION

10 POINT

DISAS. jOTMER

/ L6 APPROPRIATION

DIX

F

706509-20

TO

87-2306-23

AÀ STAMLIRD FORM 50 REMARKS

SURICE TO

ETIREMENT AS

(16S- 70)

SD : DS

1' CNT REMINAMIS

APPOIMT-

(MOCESSIGNS ONLY)

8 AsrLi 1957

IS LEGAL RESIDENDE

CLAIMED O PROVED

STATE: De. Ca

4

23. CLEARANCES

& CEIL OR AOS. CONTROL

& CLASSIFICATION

3 PLACEMENT OR SUL

INITIAL OR SIGNATURE

DATE

REMARKS:

Ali dron

My 110004.21

grant 6-221 pie len

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SURADAND NORW J6

t0:15 09 r08

130000388

# 88016-457

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in ilems 1 through 18 and A through D except 68 and 7 unless otherwise instrucied

I applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse.

¿ DATA OF BIATR

і ніти на

Mrs, Anna Tarasoff

5 May 1923

C-x158

& ENACTINE DATE

A PROPOSIO:

axecated dppeintueat..

169035

• ¿hando drado us ei

A DATE OF REQUEST

19 Feb 57

5 DROTHIN

LIGAL ALTINES

HIY

-50

USCA

430 J

& AYROVED:

POSITICN TITLE AND

HUMOIR

8. SERVICE. GRADE AND

SALARY

IQ ORCAYIIATIOMAL

DESIUMAIIONS

IL. HEADQUAATEES

12 TItLO OR DIPARTMINTAI

10 Clerk

GS-0301.76-4

B11

75423

$3/115 pado

0u3. / difice of

Fersonnel

tersonnel ssirment division

Placement. Branch

(Clerical)

Interin Assignment Section

rushington, i.C.

RELO

I X 1 PEPARIMENTAR

ВЕРДАЇНЕНТАВ

A. REMARNS (UNe rONOrDO if nOCASTArT)

Regnest indices clearance.

IAS (Unassigned)

A EQUESTRO EV (Name and Pala)

E FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL Iano and celogicon

X=0$3

13. VETERAN FREFLNENCE

HOAZ: www./OTHER, www/OTHER, l

IN FOINT

¡ DISAG iOTMERI

APPROPRIATION

FROM

10

7-0509-20

2U. STANDARD FORM SO RIMARAS

Let tens

, torred a tical person.

31. CLEAMANCES

INITIAL OR SIGNATURE

DATE

A.

A. CEIL OR POS. CONTROL

C. CLASSIFICATION

D. PLACEMENT OR INM.

F. APPE

D. REQUEST APPROVLO BE

Signature:

Title:

Clerical Placcent Officer

1S POSITION CLAND ICATION ACTION

F.L.AI,

10 C

m 62 +AC

(185--A0)

les

18. 17A1

MAY AGENT

Heathe 6a.X1

1S. LEGAL RESIDENCE

'STATE:

; 419/4?

500

4/5/3

jerotie: 9620153

REMARKS:

---

## Page 19

14-00000

•SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF CANCELLATION

OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

.. TO

CHIEF, PERSONNEL OPERATIONS DIVISION

CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT (For Action)

CI

ATTP

Support State

r REF,

Resignation Debrlefing in Absentia

MILITARY COVER DISCONTINUED

DATE

18 October 1963

suBJgeT

TARASOFF, Anna

Forwarding Address:

Unknown

FILE NO.

1. K-111

Administrative Suppat Group, OSA

NA

Inblock Records

OP Memo 20-800-11,

Resignation effective 8 Septembor 1963 in Absentia

Effoctive,

EOD

Submit Form 612 To Change Limitation Cotogory.

NA(HB 20-000-2 1o be redesignated HHB 20-7)

Rolumn All Military Documentation To CCS.

N

Remorks:

Subject to indicate CIA as place of employment

for the entire period.

7

3 COPY PO CAD/OP

DISTRIBUT

FORM

12. 8, 155l a

Came i thankles

CD/pp

1-OSDIOS: 1-PSD/OS

SECRET

hood tom tapesthe

(13.20.031

56a 3-6-3

---

## Page 20

14.00000

C-2532 (Blindean)

5 June 1963

ANDRAIN PORs. Transactions and Recorda Branch

OfFIce of Pereonnal

KEITION!

SUBTECT :

Mary Corlden

Boris Do. TARASOFP

Anna, TARABONY

- 1..

I. Cover arrangemente are in process, and/or, have

been completed for the above-naned subjects.

2. Wrective timediately,

records be properly blocked to

deny us quested set your

Ageney employment to an external inquirer.

FIONAS X. STRAPDE

Deputy Chics, CC8/RC

ee: ID/BO

ON TUN G0 MLE

COONET,

IT

---

## Page 21

4-00000

SECRET

19 Octobor 1960

(Date)

File No. K-11l

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Chief, Records and Services Division

Office of Personnel

Anna TARASOSF

Cover arrangements rearman carter have heen com-

pleted

for the above-named Subject.

Effective..

13 October 1960

—, 1t 1s requested that your

records be properly blocked sesamn to deny laho#reuge subject's

current Agency employment to an external inquirer.

Operating component must take necessary action to block

raste lephone locator by submitting the Personnel Information Card,

"Office File Copy,"

Form No. 642, to Machine Records Division, Office

of the Comptroller, Room 107 Curle Hall, Attention: Miss Wenkenbach.

oc/toa, This uggorandu confirts an oral request of &d Fitzgerald,

PaulP. LEmat -

~GLEN E. MOOR:O SE

Acting Galer, Central Cover soarst Group

cc:

SSD/os

Operating Division - CI

hi t

181

I SECRET!

F.39 1580

---

## Page 22

3.

TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE

T. LAST NAME

INITZALS) 2.

APACINTMENT DATA

Ensore so tur

T°T

Years

tina

Absentha

No O

Caused so top sutrati to Sos. 203(d)

17 More man 19 year

AWCE 9.9630 -

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE

Sick

(MOURS)

3 Botanio tram pror trove your prated

1-5

10l?

39

d. Current leave your arms marrya 3- 31

10.k3

SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE

(DAYS)

14. More smood abroad for Ml purposes

20

15. Comone botance as of

68

18. 12-mon9t ortral rate.

17. Dosa baro vied, prior 28 monitro.

%. Total:

8. Restation is cradita, of any iturani year)

9. Total tacon fater

141

30

11

10. Balance

11. Yanal hours paid in tump sure u

12. Sakary 10ho/8l-

55 - 1=-4

83. Jump sun loono dares,

Frott -

15543

:20

santa, satruel dote

5260/10. Cainator dori redir lor neal accruns doro

12

20. Doo dos merce period completod -

MILITARY LEAVE

21. Dum daring current calendar ye.

22. DuPer Siry presening calendar yr.

ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

(Mours)

TWOF S AWEY E

Furlongs Jasona

(Hairs)

481

26. Cortefied correct by:

23. Muang leard yoor in which seporated

A. Dira; i'ma:screase waiting

(Signatel

17.0101

(Date)

Telephones

25. Dunny 12-mority Il ocerval period (dares): -

amland form dia 1140

1144109

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED

Days

REMARAS

SCĐ:

4-8.57

---

## Page 23

SECRET

MHC :

25 SEPT 63

DEF

1. SERIAL NUMBER

8. MAME (LAST 61831-M1901E)

025935

TARASOFF ANNA

9. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RESICNATION FROM I.WOP

* 10 CF

FUNDS

$ 10 g

CE TO CF

B. ORGAMILATIONAL DESIGHATIONS

DOP CI STAFF

CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

11, POSITION BITLE

INTELLIGENCE CLERK

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB. 036.)

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

GS

0301.27

18. SEMARKS

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

#hel

• EFFECTIVE DATE

то.

DA.

no, no, 63

8. COST CENTER NO. CHANGEABIE

4229 1990 1000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

S, CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGUI AR

1O. 6SE 0R OTNER LEGAL AUTHORITY

WASH., D. :C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

0697

I4. GRADE AND SIER

06 4

1J, SRAVICE DESIGNATION

17. SALARY OR RATE

5545

19. ACTION 20. Employ.

21.

CODE

Code

43

18

18. MIE EXPIRES

OFFICE CODING

79.

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

JS. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

JA. SERV. COMP.

DATE

ca.

41.

CODE

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENI SERVICE DATA.

• NO DREAR IN SERVICE

C. BOGAR IN SERVICE LASS PIAGE NASI

D. BREAT IN SERVICE LODGE THEN SERS,

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFTICE OF PERSONNEL

72. STATION | 23. INTEGREE

CODE

CODE

23. Magis.

25. DATE OF BIRTH

Cada

is 65,23

RETIREMENT DATA

COOt

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

132. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

но.

35. DATE OF GRADE

=о.

De.

27. BATE OF LEI

ve

33. SECURITY

REQ. NO

14. $EX

EOD DATA

18. LONG.

COMP. DATE

Ya.

J8. CAREER CATEGORY

CODE

39

CODE

BEST

PEGLI / HEALTN INSURANCE

MAALTH 148. C0D2

1O. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

42. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

FEDERAL TAN DATA

JANERECUIEO

coDE.

DO TAXESCEPTIONS

46.

FORM EXACUTED

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

1594:82078

8.70

2. 40

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHE!!TICATION

FORW

11.62

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

28755 /

18.91)

Li

".

---

## Page 24

LLG:

29 JUNE 63

DEF

1. SERIAL NUMBER

1. HAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDLE)

025935

TARASOFF ANNA

J. NATURE DE PERSONNER ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

AND LWOP

(NTE 11 SEPT.

1963)

d.

FUNDS

• 10 Y

IF 10 V

• 10 65

IF 10 (F

P. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP

CI. STAFF

CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

IP. POSITION PITIE

INTELLIGENCE CLERK

14. ELASSIFICATION SEHEDULE (65, (8, 818.)

TS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

GS

0301.27

18 PEPPERS

OTHER

SECRET

(Whon filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

4. EFFESTIVE BATE

&. CATEGORY OF EMRLOYMENT

*1030

06 1 12 63

REGULAR

7. COST CENTER NO IRREFEABLE

1 8. ESC O& OTHER LEGAL AUINORITT

3227 1990 1000

10. LOCATION OF OAFICIAL STATION

50 USE 403 J.

WASH. .D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

9997

I6. GRADE AND STEP

06 4

ID. SERVICE DESIGNATIÓN

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

5545

ID. ACTION 20. implay.

1 $1.

600€

Code

38

18

PS. NTE EXPIRES

DA.

OFFICE CODING

MUNITIE

32997

88. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

SPACE RELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OTTIT OF FERSONNEL

27. STATION | 23. INTEGREE

CODE

CODE

16. Nasira $ 85. BALE DE BIRTM

126. DATE OF GRADE

но.

тн.

11. DATE OF LEI

MO.

75013

BETIZEMERI DA!A

131. SEPARATION

16038

DATA CODE

05.05

123

97. (CRRECTION, INCIT:ISTICS DATA!

gira

33. SECURITY

134. SEE

AEO. NO

EOD DATA

H018

JS. VES. PREFERENCE

; BA.. SERV. COMP. DATE

1 25. L0Z6. COMP. DATE

но.

12.

38. CAREER CATEGORY

CODE

(AH

Bt -v

39.

cons

FROL!, MEALIN INSURANCE

2. 241167

HEALTH IRS. CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

10 aY

PREVIOUS COYERNMENT SERVICE DATA

#1.

(O08.

#2. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

FORM ERECUTIO; CODE

FEDERAL TAR BATT

do Tallerices

48.

STATE TAK DATA

ivor

8O BREAN IN SERVICE

4 ' 8464R 14 2т488 ПE5 Інад 3 ?421

• DA1AX 1O SERVICE MORE IHAR SUNI

8. 10

•. vES

3. 40

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHESTICATOY

POSTED

2404 fus.

inen

11.62

1150

• Use Provious

Edition

SECRET

251886

lesladed lice saturane

', side

(Whea Filled la)

---

## Page 25

14-00000

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IN

ABBIGULD ORGAS.

i: -1001

+ BUADE

9. ALLOTMINT

D. EMP. STRIAL NO.

-005935

OLD

SALARY

7.

32.250

NEW

SALARY

RATE

LAST SPFECTIVE DAPE

EFFECTiVE DATE

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

GRADE

#TEF

BALART

...

35 06

953750 BE COMPLETO BY THE OE OCE

- 5550

* .COMPTASULE

NUMBER OF HOURS SHOP

01 08 63

#. CHECK ONE

IF TACESS LHOP, CMECH TOLLOWING:

[J IS PAT STATUS AS 8NO ON MAITINO PERIOR

10. INITIALS OF CLERK

'6 INOR DRATUS AY AND OR MALTIMO PERIOS

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. REMARLB

8I. AUDITED BY

18. TYPE OF ACTION

ENTICATION

Bash

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORX OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS

OF AN ACCEFIABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIONATURE

60 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIO

[PLACES FORM 560G, AND B60

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

(4)

Д. 2..

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PUBLIC LAW *

87-793 AND

DCI MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 1956º SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS.

EFFECTIVE 14 OCTOBER 1962º

NAME

TARASOFF ANNA

OLD

OLD

SERIAL ORGN FUNDS GROST SALARY

NEW

GR-3T

NEW

SALARY

025935

32250

V

06 3

$

5160

06

• 3

$

5375

8:03

SECRET

(When Filled In)

Soris! No

Name

Cust Contor Number

IWOP Houra

25935

TARASOFF ANNA

32 2511

31

crado

. Slep

+

OLD SALARY MATE

Salary

4995

Laat Eil Date

Grade

Stop

NEW SALARY RATE

Salary

Eloctire Daio

TYPE ACTION

PSI ISI:

RDJ.

91708/61

÷6

31600

11417167

Remarks and Authentication

1:0

FXCFSS LHOP

111 PAY STATUS AT ELO OF GAGTIG DENIIO

IN COOO STATUS AT FIO OF IT G 093100

70

---

## Page 26

SSCRET

(163ea Mlod la)

AESi

10 MAY 61

NOLFICANUN UF PENSONNEI PETION

& HAME GLAST-BIRST-MIDDLE,

025935

B. MATORE DE PIRSONALL ACTION

TARASOFF ANNA

PROMOTION - CORRECTION

• 10 *

10 tf

FUNDS

IF 10 %

68 10 (F

A CeSAR:CaTIONAL DUSIGHATIONS

IVE DATE

TS. CATTERY CE EBPLOTMERT

01: 08

61

REGULAR

T. COST CENTEE NO. CMARGGABIE

TE ESE OR OTHER CIGAS ASTHORITE

1227 1001 1000

50 USE 403 #

¡ 1O. LOCATION OF OFFILIAL STATION

DDP

CI STAFF

SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP

PROJECTS BRANCH

1T. AOSITION TIBLE

WASHO, DoG.

12 POSITION NUMBER

1A. CARELE SERVICE DESIGYATION

INTELL CLERK

1A PLASSIFICATION SENEQUIE (65, WB, ate.)

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0151

16 GRADE AND STEP

06 2

D

:17, SALARY CA RATE

GS

0301.27

4995

T& RISINIS

-*THIS ACTION CORRECTS SE 1150 EFF 8 JAN 1961 ITEM #16, STEP, WHICH READ 1 TO READ

2 AND ITEM #17, SALARY, WHICH READ $48JU TO READ $4995.

1: 19. a:71.0 ID. 1m0189.

183E

toss

58

10

2E. RTE EXPIRES

21.

OFFICE COOING

32250

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

CI

10.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

22. ЗАТОМ

29. INTEGALE

Pd. Hideirs.

JS. DATE OF BIRIN

; PA. DATE OF GRADE

CODE

CODE

Lode

75013

*17:4:6:8? DATA

JI. SEPARATICH

DATA COot

2P DATE OF LEA

01

8:

39.

SECURIT

• MOkE

$ VET. PALTERENCE

JA. SERV. COMP. DATE

22

3Y. NORS COMP. DATE

T 38. MIt. StaY. CREDIT/LO

9k8

600E

05 г

05 1 23

CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

01

108

61

EOD DATA

19.

FEGLI / WEALTN INSURANCE

case

HEALTH I8S. 60D8

1 34. 568

#. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

7...

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

,O GOTREVIOUSSERYICE

EZ. LEAVE CAT.

4.

600E

FEDERAL TAX DATA

¿COE

STATE TAY DATA

Cood

188

8.49

CAPTIONS TRGROSSSCUTID

8.40

EXEMP.

I BEAMICE TLES TE MOOT

BLARIN SERVICE MORE THAN 12 R38-

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

8051E3

12420 - 12-41

Obsolete Provious

: 150

Edillons

125/10141

SECRET

L.

(4-57)

•19:

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SECRET

When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCE

1. SERIAL NUMBER

| 2. #AME (LA31 41811-MIDDLE)

025935

I. MATURE OF PIESONNEL ACTION

TARADiS AliNA

PROMOTION

+10 0

FUNDS

C8 10 8

%. ORGAMILATIONAL DEGIGNATIONS

UDP CI STAFF

SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP

PROJECTS BRANCH

TI. POSITION TITLE

INTELL CLERK

14. CLASSIFICATICN SCHEGULE (68. WB, 8t8.)

GS

18. REMARNS

• TO CE

CE 10 CF

& EFFECTIVE DATE

jD. CATEGORT OF EMPLOTMENT

=о.

NEGULAN

7. COST SENTER NO. CHARGEABLE D. ISC OR OTNER LEGAL AUTHORITY

1227 1001 1000

50 USC 403 +

1O. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

TS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

10301.27

WASH., D.C.

IN POSITION NUMBER

0151

TO GRADE AND STEP

06

1

19. CAREER SERVICE DISIGMATION

D

TT. SALARY OR RATE

4830

18. A(1100 20. Employ.

Code

10

22'

28. OTE EXPIRES

OFFICE CODING

- 8 Ase

32250

80. SPE6141

CI

25.

REGERENCE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PENSONNEL

23. STATION ; 2J. INTEGREE

CODE

CODE

84. Highrs.

85. DATE OF BIRTN

Code

80.

DA.

175013

05: 05,23

RETIERMENT DATA

CODE

131. SEPARATION

BARA CODE

I 37. CORRECTIONICANGELLATION DATA

DA.

26. DATE OF GRADE

но.

01

28. DATE OF LEA

61

01

J1, SECURITY

пЕд. мо.

24. SEx

ECD DATA

3S. YES. PREFERENCE

134. MORY. COUP. BATE

CODE

17. 10RG.

COMP. DATE

38. MIL. SERY. CREDIT/LED

P. YES

CODE

8.40

CODE

DEGLO / MEALTH INSURANCE

o. HArves

| HEALTH INS. CODE

1. 1as

$O. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

47.

PREVIOUS GOVERAMEMT BEATICE DATA

47. LEAVE CAT. 43.

CODE

FEDEàdA 112 Bat&

COCk

ARAMATIES

FORE CIECUTES

9.129

STATE TAX DATA

CODE TRO TAT GIATECODE

SIGNATUR: OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

Жa:01614

L.

Torm

6-60

1150

Obsoleto Provous

Editions

SECRET

---

## Page 28

IN ACCORTANCE WITH THE PROVISIONO OF PO LO EB-56S AND DOI MEMO DATED

1S ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1950.

SD

NAMF

TARASOFF ANNA

SERIAL

ORGN GRIST OLD SALARY

NEL SALARY

$

4 • 510

125935: 54

18

GS05

4, 190

1S/

EMMETT DO ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

200.1°

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

EMP. SERIAL NO.

175935

OLD

HAN&

TARASAFE ANNA

SALARY

RATE

ASSIGNED ORGAN.

4. FUNDS

3. AI.LOTMENT

DOPICI

/

SALARY

V-20

RATE

GRAD#

STEP

BALANT

05

2

4•510

1.1

LAST REFECTIVE DATE

DA.

01

Ya.

59

NEW

GRADE

STEP

EFFECTIVE DATE

SALARY

GS

+ 5

3

4,675

TO BE

COMPLETED

BY

THE

Mo.

10

30

vn.

60'

8. CHICK ONE

I EXCESS LHOP, CHECK FOLLOWING:

O IN PAY STATUS NY AND 08 MAITINO PERIO

OFFICE

OF

COMPTROLLER

*. NUMBER OF HOURS LWOP

10. INITIALS OF CLARE

11. AUDITED DY

TO BE COMPLETED BY

82. TYPE OF ACTION

THE

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

13. REMARKS

IB. AUTHENTICATION

1? 190

REVIOUS

560 REPOLEES PERMOUS

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

SECRET

ving

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

(8)

...;

---

## Page 29

MAHE

EMP. BERIAL NO.

125074

TARAGNET

APiNA

OLD

SALARY

RATE

BALARY

#TEP

d040

TO

BE

11

LAST BIFECTIVE DATE

ча.

0?.

48

COMPLETED

I9 EXCASS LWOP, CHECK FOLLOWING:

[J 14. POr STATOS AY BHO OF MAITINO PREOR

[D IN INCO STATOR AS ANO OF MAITINO MERIOD

TO BE COMPLETED

18. TYPE OS ACTION

р.л.н. [ 6.8.1. (J: P992024870890

1B, AUTHENTICATION

SECRET

(WHEN TUT IN

ALLOTMENT

ASSIGNID CREAM.

#. Putes

V-20

ПОРИСТ .!

NEW SALARY

RATE

7.

REFICTINE DATE

SALARY

GRADE

STE

2

4.1999

100

11

01

59

GS

COMPTROLLER

•. NUMBER OF HOURS LIOR

18. AUBITED SY

10. INITIALE OF CLERE

BY

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

18. REMARKE

zu

1?."?

8098

д-э#

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

SECRET

560

EDIT

DEFACES POEM ONE TOL

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

€

TO LIEU DE ENOR 115A THIS NOTIFICATION EFFECTS RESLOTTING RESULTING

SE0"

NAME

FROM R-20-250

SD

OLD SLOT

NEW SLAT.

DATF

125075 TARASOFF ANNA

DS

0151-05

151

04/28/59

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SECRET

(ihon Fillod In)

NOTIFICATION OF FERSONNEL ACTION

AE. 11 FEE 1959

1. Serial No.

2. Nazo (ost-firs-Middle)

135935

SCD

Mo.

Da

104

108

TARA:OFF ANNA

T8. CSC ROTE 19. CSC.Or Olor Legal Authority

Yr.

Codo

57

150 USCA 403 2

3. Data Oi Birth / 4. Ver. Prof.

75. 50x

Nonoo Codo

05

5 Pt-1

23

10. Apt. Allidov (11. FEGUI | 18.

Mo.

Da.

Mo.

Da

08

Ye.

57

CS - LOD

Mo.

Da.

04

08

Yr.

13.

157

1co

Code

No.0

2

14, Orgianizational Decignatons

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Codo

15. Location Of Official Station

Station Code

DOP CI STAFF

SPECIAL INVE-TIGATION CIVIS G

[s. Dept. - Field

J17. Pestion Tito

Dest

- 2

Code

Usild - #

tran

2

INTEL CLK

21. Grada Se Steo

28. Solary Or Rato

23. SD

0% 2

$ 3850

Ds

IMA.AI., D.e. Portion No.

119. Serv. 20. Occup. Sorios

0051.05

181. Dote O/ Grado |25. PSI Due

GS

0301.27

128. Appropriation Numbor

Mo.

Mo.

Do.

Ye.

8 2705 27

£7. Nature Of Action

ACTION

Code

128. 1. 0: Vr.

127. Type Ol Emploreo

Codel 30. Seprration Dota

PROMOTICN-CORRECTION*

30

31. Organizational Designauons

11/ 021 551

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

32. Location Of Official Station

01

¡Station Codo

DOP EI STAFF

SPECIAL

INVESTIGATION DIVISION

PROJECTS BRANCH

33. Dept. - Fioid

34. Position Title

Dept

- 9

Codel

Erga - 6

INTEL CLK

33. Grode & Step|39. Salary Or Rote

140. SD

051

17. Remarks

1$ 4070

D:

15418

WASH.e

35. Posilion No.

75013

36. Serv. 37. Occup. Serios

0151.05

IGS

41. Date Of Grado 48. PSI Due

0301.27

1.43. Appropriation Numbe

1) 0ê 156 AT 01 152 19 2700 22001.

OSPANIZAT ONES PEATIA DIVISION. "

WHICH READ "SPECIAL

LUSTED

13159

TAa8, 1150 D6 D117159

SECRET

(4)

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECPET

Nihon Fillod In)

NOTIFICATION: OF PERSONNEL ACTION

AES 30 OCT 1958

11. Sorial Na

8. Name (Last-fire Mcdio)

125935

TARASOFF ANNA

SCD

Is. OSt Reent. j9. OSC Or Other Last Auchority

Ma

04

Da.

Yr.

108

Yes-1 /Code

157. /No- 811 150 USCA 403 J

3. Date Of Birth

4. Ver. Fred

15. Sex

O. CS • EOD

Des.

Ys.

Nonoo

¡Codoi

•Ma

Do.

Vr.

05

05

|23

5 P.- 1

10 A9|0

2

04

08

157

110. Momt. Altidov.

11. FEGUI

12

TO

13.

in. It

Ma

Da.

Yi.

Yos-1|Codo| Ma

108 151 1º: 3/2

Code

18. Organisational Designations

DOP CI STAFF

SPECIAL PROJECTS DIV

PROJECTS BRANCH

(16. Dest. - Fioi3 17. Position Tille

¡Code

Lican

INTEL CLK

81. Grodo a Step

88. Salary Or Rote

04 2

$ 3850

23. SD

DS

27. Nature Of Action

Code

PROMOT ICN

30

31. Organisational Designations

DOP CI STAFF

SPECIAL PROJECTS DIV

PROJECTS BRANCH

33. Dost. -Felt 134. Dosition Title

¡Coda

12

INTEL CLK

33. Grade a Stap|39. Salary Or Rajo

1 4070

i 40. SD

05 1

44. Remartes

DS

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Code

15. Location Of Official Stution

Station Code

15412

WASH., D. C.

T18. Position No.

75013

119. Son. 80. Occup. Series

0851.05

GS

25.

Appropriation Number

• 0301.27

[84. Date Ol Grade |85. PSI Duo

H B3 51 104 120 58

Yr.

ACTION

$8. EH. Dato

29. Typo O! Employed

Ma

Do.

Vr.

8 2705 27

Code 30 Separation Dato

111-021 58

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Code

138. Location Of Olticial Station

01

Sration Code

15412

(WASH., D.C.

T35. Position Nu.

13013

3a Serv. |37. Occup Series

0151.05

1*1. Dare Of Grade | 42. PSI Duo

143. Appropriation Nußbe

No.

1 Mo

Tr.

11 102 158 111 101 159 19 2700 E7 001

0301.27

10071113/581

SECRE

(4)

---

## Page 32

14-00000

999971

17ER AIITHORIZEO PY DO LO R9 = 468 AUB POI

BAVE

SEPTAL

GRADE-STED

OLD SALLEY

ASH CALADY

@ TARASOFF ANNA

125935

65-04-2

$ 3,500.

$ 3,950

C7F460T

SECRET

- 00 .1

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

2705

EMP. SERIAL NO.

175938

GRADE

55

4

STEP

1

NAME

TARAÇOFF ANNA

ASSIGNED ORGAN.

4. FUNDS

V-20

OLD SALARY RATE

7.

LAST EFFECTIVE DATE

SALARY

60.

DA.

vA.

GRADE

STEP

NEW SALARY RATE

SALARY

$

3,415

TO

BE

04

09

57

GS

2

$

3,500

HO.

04

COMPLETED

BY THE OFFICE

OF

COMPTROLLER

mammary 1191 5402

AACHSS 1W09

4500

EFFECTIVE DATE

ra.

20

58

9. CHECK ONE

CHECK FOLLOWING:

[I iN PAr BRATUS

AT BAD DE MAITINO PERIOD

10. INITIALS OF CLERK

O IM INOR STATUS ON AND DR WAITINO PERIOS

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

PROJECTED SALARY RATE AND EFFECTIVE DATE

13. REMARKS

GHADE

STEP

SALARY

MO.

DA.

YR.

91. AUDITED DY

18. AUTHENTICATION

170

tiv

10112.

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

1. EMP. SERIAL NO.

125935

GRACE

GS

REMARIS

STEP

TARASOFF ANNA

OLD SALANY RATE

SALAAY

no,

$

3, 415

04

LAST EFFECTIVE DATE

0A.

08

57

7.

GRADE

ASSIGNEO ORGAN

EAS -51

NEW SALARY

SALARY

FUNDS

ALLUTHE M

V-20

RATE

GS

4

STEP

2

1$

3,500

no.

04

EFFECTIVE DATE

DA

20

Ye.

58

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICI AND CONDUCT OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY.

1000

---

## Page 33

SECRET

(When Fillad In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

MCM 7 MAR 58

T. Serial No.

2. Nomo (as Finniballo)

• Doto OfEirh 14. Vor. Pret. 5. Se

Mo.

Da.

16. 05.100

donou Cal

Mo.

125935

TARASOFF ANNA

05 / 05 / 23 100.9/0 1F 2

04

Ds.

5P8-1

08

Mo.

10. Act. Attity.

TCD

Yr.

57

3. Ci Kom. P. Ok Or Ohor Legal Authority

1:18. FEGILI

118.

13. MY

04

108.57 NO: $ 1150 USCA 103 J.

Mo.

Do.

Vr. Yos.1 Coda

Coto

No-8/

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Code

15. Location Of Ollicial Stotion

Station Code

14. Organizution al Detignahons

DOS OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

PERSONNEL ASSIGNMENT DIV

PLACEMENT BR CLERICAL

INTERIM ASSIGAMENT SECT

1o. Dopt. - Fiola

T17. Pesision Tide

Dopt

• ¿Code

Uslid. 4

Fogn

• 8

2

CLERK

21. Grade a Slop

28. Salary Or Rate 183. SD

04 1

$ 3415

UD

87. Nature Of Action

Code

REASSIGAMENT

57

31. Organizational Designatons

DDP CA STAFF

SPECIAL PROJECTS DIV

PROJECTS BRANCH

33. Dept. - Fiold

J34. Pastion Pilo

- 9

Codol

sSIld - A

Ergn

- 6

2

38. Grade a Step

INTEL CLK

39. Salary Or Raro

4). SD

041

44. Ramarks

3415

DS

2931

WASH., D.

C.

13. Position No.

:7501 3

18. Sor. SU. Orcup Sores

0301.26

21. Dato OiGrado|25. PSI Duo

Mo.

Ds.

Ms.

Yr.

07 1 08 157

04

120 | 58

ACTION

28. Eit. Deto

Mo.

Da.

Yr.

|89. Type Ol Employee

03: 091 58

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

138. Location Of Official Station

GS

186. Apprepriation Numbor

8 6509 20

Codo 30. Separation Data

01

I Station Coda

5412

WASH. 2

D.

C.

35. Position No.

75013

136. Serv. 37. Orcup Serias

0151.05

41. Dore O1 Grade 49.

PSI Due

GS

43.

Appropriation Numbne

Ma

Da.

No.

03100 / 57

104 / 20/58

0301.27

3705 27

POSTLO

MAR 5y 1150

46312153

SECRET

(4)

---

## Page 34

SECRET

(i hon fillert In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

ARE: 24 JAN 1958

1. Serial No.

[2. Name (Lost-firs-Middlo)

3. Dare Of linh

[s. Vor. Prol.

5. 50x

I. CS. E00

Ms.

Yo.

Nono-O Code

Mo.

Do

Vr.

5 Pe-1

05

105

|23

F

2

08 | 57

10 Pt-8

ICD

13. choice

125938

Mo. | Da

Yr.

L04/08/57

TARASOFF ANNA

11. TEGLI

19.

B. CSC Rotme.

J9. C5C 0r Othor Losol Authority

110. Apmt. Affidov.

Da.

Codo

Mo.

Vr.

Y 08-1 Code

Mo.

Do

04

Yr.

57

No : 8

No-8

50 USCA 403=

08

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Codo

Station Codo

115. Location Of Ollicial Station

14. Organizational Designations

DOP FI STAFF

DIVO

PROJECT ANNEX

PROJECT PBJOINTLY

BRANCH 2 SECTION B

16. Dept. -Tiold 17. Posicion ille

Doot

• 8

¿Coda

USild - 4

2

CLERK

fign

• 0

21. Grode & Step

88. Salary Or Pote

783.50

04 1

3415

DS

Codo

27. Noture Of Action

REASSIGNMENT

57

51. Organisational Designations

DDS OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

PERSONNEL ASSIGNMENT DIV

PLACEMENT 8R CLERICAL

INTERIM ASSIGIMENT SECT

33. Dope. - Field

34. Position Afte

Dept. - 8

USild • 4

Codol

138. Grado a Siop

CLERK

139. Salary Or Rates

3415

T10. 5D

UD

04 1

44. Remarks

WASH., D. C.

T18. Position No.

8073.12/907

19. Sorv. 80. Occup. Sories

0301.26

GS

84. Dero Or Grade |25. PSI Du. Vr.

86.

Appropriation Numbor

Mo.

8 2306 23

ACTION

88. DEv.

T22. Type Ol Employed

Mo.

01 / 26 | 58

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Code

32. Location Of Oficial Station

Cool 30. Soparation Data

01

Station Code

2931

WASH., D. C.

T35. Position No.

175013

738. Son. 37. Occup. Series

0301.26

GS

41. Date Of Grade | 42. PSI Duo

143. Appropriation Number

no, 08 57 04, 20, 5ớ | 8 6509 20

AC:#

• 3 1939

SECRET

(4)

i Plan

FRMRB, 1150

---

## Page 35

STANDARO FERT SO 13 PARTY

¿ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

NARG. 197146981, 844 189

2. DATE OF BIRTU

3. JOURNAL OB ACTION NO.

& DATE

JEEN ARKA FARASS

125935

5 Kay 1929

12 Jul 1957

S. MATURE DE ACTICE. i ONE 88

Rosa gunm

BROM

DU 63429

Pergonnal Aelgant Dislete

Piaossust Branch (Clariorl)

Interts desmant Sostien

FIELD

1E WARBAAM 3828RH: 812

CEPARIMERPAL

iN POINT

50'%

E.LH0:

20,

REMARKS:

& EFFECTIVE DATE

14, Jal 1957

7. CIVIL SERVICE OR OTHER LEGAL AUTMORITY

50 toGe 403 1

TO

& PASTION TITLE .

SERVICE, SERII

ADE SALAI

Clerks

09-0301.266

ĐVP-$073.12/901

83425.00 per anna

3 DESIGVATORS

D0P/78 Sta58

Di v1 alon D

Project Annar

419968

2L NESDQUARTERS

Projeot PB Jointly

Branch 2 Sectden B

2

Hashing ton, D. Co

12 FIELD C& DEPTY.

FIELD "

IN. POSETION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

YET VICE I A

HEAL.

SUE TO SCr

RFEIREMFAII

(T39A90

DATE of

habeth heada

MENE AFFIDAVIIS

IAIGESSIGAS UALTI

B€509 20

3230623

80/09

1D. LEGAL RESIDENCE

) CLAIMEO C PROVED

STATE:

750mlg

3 B0D 04/08/57

1191861

ENTRANCE PERFORMAICE RATING:

Durator of Parsonal, "

4. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPT

U. 8. BOVERNMINT PRINTING OFFICE 1058-383048

---

## Page 36

2

BANDARD POAW SO 1J PANT)

AS H

PROUIDATED BE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

5

P.C.

19 Mir 1957

3-8239

1vl

MES. ANNA TALLY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Z. DATE OF CIATE

$ JOURNAL OR ACTION N0.

5 Buy 1e3

& DATE

129935

8 if 1957

This le 1o Rolily-you of lhe followedng oction allecting your employment:

3, DATURE OF ACTION OUSE BIDOLADO PERMINGLOGI!

& EFFECTIVE DATE

7. CIVIL SERVICE ON OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

-13

8 ADE 1957

20 VIC: 403.1

FROM

&. POSITION TITLE

Clort

B0/ 5423

9. JAVES RELES.

65-0301.26-4 73415-00 per annu

S. ORGANIZATIORA!

ESICHATIONS

DoS/Offiee of Personnel

Personal Asalgumat Divialon

Pleneront Bronob (Clerioal)

Intoria Abstruent Sestlon

293399

11. HEADQUARTERS

Mushington, D.O.

FIRLO

1S. VEILRAN A PREFERENCE

DEPAATHENTAL

10:9930F

12. FIELD OR BESTY

14. POSITION CLASSUFICATION ACTION

HEYE

vIca

I. A

REAL

DEPARTMENTAL

13.

st*

87.

SUBJECT

ПЕРЕМЕНЕ A

R16a4Y8

18.

DATE

MARIE ADB30386986

LACEESBIODS ORLES

FROM:

10:

20.

REMARKS:

1-6509-20

750-13

19. LEGAL RESIDENCE

O CAMEO I PROVED

STATE:

BOD

103

04/00/58

RC-153

Subjent

SubJeet

Lan natinfastory complondon of e trial pertod of one year.

tho sailsectory coplation of a nodical exinatlos.

DOO:

CSHOD:

04/08/57

04/06/51

04/03/57

BCD:

04/00/57

REI due: 0b/20/58

FOSIED

1382%

CATRANCE PEN'DAMANCE RATINO:

Derator de JOERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

41/9/57

# U. 8. sov

nar caraman arpek 1948.

---

## Page 37

64-7-79

SECRET

(When Fillers. in)

EMPLO'EE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT '

25935

SECTION A

1, NAME

GENERAL

2." DATE OF DIRTH TS. SEX

A. GRADE

(1.001).

TARVISOFT,

(Fleet)

ANNA

B. 30

(9910110)

5 May 1923

F

CS-6

D

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIONRENT

16. CURRENTSTATION

B. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

INIELLICEICE CLERK

DDP CI STAFT/SIG/ PROP

HEADQUARIERS

CHECK IXI TYPE OF APDOINTMENT

10. ¿MECH (X) TYPE OF REPORT

RESERVE

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

FHASSIONNENT SUFENVISOR

RIASBIGAMINT EMPLOTIE

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (Soo infiructiona - Section, C)

ANAUAL

APECIAL (Spacily)!

SPECIAL (Spectly): Terminal

2. REPORTINO PERIOO (POT - PO)

I1-OATI REPORT DUE IN O.P.

31 July 1963

1 July 1962 - 30 June 1963

SECTION B

W - Haak

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Partie rom did tram Tall you guate to an ely dee to i am feel fun or she coe go preguiron

proberion, le reassigamient

or to soporation.

Descelbo ectlon taken or proposed in Soction C.

Porformenco menta oll requiremento. It ln entiroly soriafectory and la chorecterized neither by deficiency nos

A - Adesuals

p - Prolicient

Performance la moro than sotlalactory. Dosired resules are baina produced in a proficient mannor.

S - 5tr0ng

Performance is charactoried by oxceptional proliclancy.

0 • Questondina.

Performance ls so arceptlonal In relation to requirements of the work ond in comparlion to tha porformance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

•SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to aia.of the most important specific duties performed during the roting perlod. Insert rating lotter which best describes the

mannse

in which employoe poeforms EACH. spocille duty.

Consider ONLY alloctiveness In performance of that duty.

All employees

•ich superulsory rasponsibilities MUST be voted on their ability lo suporylee (indicato numbos of employeed duporvleod)

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. T

RATING

"ETTER

Transliterates Russian material

P

ATIN

BETE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, 2

Chooks Project material which antails translitorating from the Cyrillic

P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

ETTE

Takes over sone supervisory duties during supervisor's absence

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. *

ETTE

Operates Xerox machine

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

• T 1:

T TI

Guides others in Project learning Russian translitoration

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

LA TINI

•ETTES

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

particulor limitations or talents.

of employao's overall perlormenco during the rating poriod,.

ploco the lotter in the rating box corresponding lo lhe statement which moss accurately reflecte his loval of parlormance.

2. 0 JUN 1963

FORM 45 OSSQUETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET-

PETTER

---

## Page 38

14-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

(shon Fillot da)

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

ACFICE OF DE

MAIL ROGN

Subfoot la Rusatan tranalitoration varis le noat and aocurato. T'his

vessi aho has boon ablo to do vithoit strons eport of the offico.

Robently aso ise ansiatod sena al the na Profoot orployres in

Loaridng Puanian transliteration.

sho haa talon ovar in an soceptable sanno sona of the supartlears

luttes during the absance of tho ruporvisor

SECTION D

DATE

Tura 63

DATE

I traso 63

COMMENTS OF REVIEWAS OFFICIAL

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAVE SEEN SECTIONS A. B. ANO C OF THIS REPORT

• EMPLOTE

Ana crese

BY SUPERVISOR

TiR THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TUREY ON PRINTEO NAME AND SIGNATURE

Intellironco Aaaistant

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE

7 Jun 63

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chiat, a1/prajoate

SECRET

TYYPED'OR PAINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET

(then Filler in)

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

25935

SECTION A

D. NAME

(Leat)

TARASCE

(Firat)

Anna

(Middle)

B: OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

INTELLIGENCE CLERK

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH D-SEX

A. ORADE

B. 3D

5 May 1923

-GS-6.

7. OPF/DIV/BR OF ASSIQNMENT &. CURRENT STATION

DDP/CI (SIC/ FRO

1O. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

A, CHECK (KI TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

REBRAVE

TEMPORARY

REASDIONHENT SUPETVISOR

REASSIGNHUNT EMPLOYEE

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See Instructlana • Section C)

¡BPECIAL (Specily):

SPECIAL (Spicity):

18, REPORTINO PERIOO (#PORT- 10-)

11. DATE REPORT QUE IN O.P.

32 July 1962

30 June 1961 - 30 June 1962

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - pat

Performance ronges from wholly Inadequate to silghtly loss than satisfactory. A fating in this cotegory requiret

positiva remedial action. The nature of the oction could range from counseling, to

further training, to placing on

probation, to recssignment or to saparation. Describe action taken or proposed in Sectlon C.

A - Adequare

Performanco mosta all requirements. It la entirely satisfactory and is charocterized nolther by defleiency nos

excallonce.

P. Proficient

Perloimance is more than satisfactory. Dosirod resules are boing produced in a proficient mannor.

S - Strong

Porformance la chorocterizod by exceptional proficioney.

-.--.-----=-

O - Questandina

Performance de so exceptionol in relation to requirements of tha work and in comparison lo pha performance of

othois doing similar work as to worrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specille durios performed during the rating perlod. Insert rating letter which bost doscribes the

mannor in which employee performs EACH apocific duty.

Consider ONLY offoctiveness in performance of that duty.

All employces

with supérvisory responsibilities MUST bo rared on thoir ability to supervise (indicate numbor of omployoes euporvlod).

ETTE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. !

P

Transliterates Russian material.

ET TE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

A

Operates Verifax machine.

RATINO

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Checks Project materiai which entails transliterating from the Cyrillic.

A

certer

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.&

Takes over some Supervisory duties during absence of Supervisor.

LATTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, O

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke into acesunt everything about the employee which influences his olfectlveness in his current position such as por

formanco of specific dutles, produstivity,

conduct on job, coopereiiveness, pertinent personal traits de habito, ond

particular liesirations or falents:

Based on

your knowledgo of employoe's overall performance during the rating period,

place the letter in the roting box corresponding to the stotemons which most accurately reflects his lovel of performance.

ORM 45

OBSOLETE PREVIOUA EDITIONS.

SECRET

LETTEI

A

---

## Page 40

SECRET

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

We allen engage gee de do marated in curent poster booing to proom perspectio arielago nemeo

comill poilamance.

Spute suggestiens mode los Improve-:are of work pertormanco.

on foreign language competence, if required los curront position. Amplify de explain ratings given in Section a to provide be me

basis for desermining futuro personnal action. Mannor of performonce of mansuerial or supervisory duties must bo describad, il

applicable.

Subject does her job without strong support of the office

and her transliteration work is

neat and accurate.

has taken over sons of the supervisory duties during the

absence of the supervisor in a satisfactory manner.

SECTION D

DATE

3 August 1962

2.

MODERS

SUPONVISHON BEEN

DATE

3 August 1902

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B. AND'C OF THIS REPORT

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Arma Taraso

BY SUPERVISOBD

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVEF, GIVE EXPLANATION

TIREDOR PRINTERNSAE ANO SIGNATURE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Intolligence Assistant

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE

3 August 1962

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Chiat, CT-Profact

SECRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled Mai)

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMDER

FITNESS REPORT

65:5

125935

SECTION A

1, NAME

(F1081)

(Midala)

GENERAL

2. DATE GAURIN

5 MAY 1923

I. SEX

IARASOFE

Anna

B. SERVICE DESIGNATION A. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

D

INTELLIGENCE CLERK

CANEER STAFF STATUS

DEFERRED

LAITIAL

NOT FLIGIOLE

A. GRADE

GS-6

7. OFF/OTOR OF ASSIONMENT

DDP/CI/SIG PROJ

TYPE OF REPORT

HEABSIGNMENT/SUPERVIDOR

FEASSIONWENT/EMPLOYEE

X/PENDING

DECLINED

DENIED

XIANNUAL

16. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

PARE PORTINO PERIOD.

SPECIAL (Spectly)

31 JULY 1961

30 JUNE 60 - 30 JUNE 61

SECTION B

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to sis of the most important apocific durlos

performed during the

Inseet rating number which bess describes ste

All amployees

manner in which employes partorms

EACH spocilie duty.

Consider

with supertisery responsibilitios MUST bo roted on thele obility to superviso (indicato numore ul employees auraslood).

1. Unsatisfactory

SPECIMIC DUTY NO.1

12 - Baroly odoguara

3 - Accoproble

4 - Compotat

5 - Excollon 16 - Suporior

7. Outstanding

RATINO

RATINO

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.&

NO.

NO.

5

Transliterates Fussian matorial.

Makos name chocks.

RA

TING

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. $

"ATINO

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. E

5

Operates Verifar machine.

RATON"

SPECIFIC OUTY MO. 8

RATING

NO.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.$

Takes over some suorvisory duties

during absence of Supervisor.

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke into account everything obout tho employee which influences his effectiveness in his curront position.

perlormance of spocific

Bosed on

duties, productivity, conduce on job, cooporativeness, portinont personol traile os habies, portleular limitations oe talenis.

your knowledgo of employoo's overall performance during the roting period, place the roting numbar in the box corasponding lo tha

arasoment which moss occuratoly rollocis his level al performance.

RATINO

NO.

3

SECTION D

1 - Loast possiblo degree

Performance clearly exceede basic regulrements.

i • Porformance in ayory important cospect la superior.

i • Performonce in every respect ls outstanding.

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the roting Boxes bolow, check (X) the degree la which ecch charocteristic applies to she employes

12 - Limited degroo

3 - Normal degree 4. Above overage dogree

T5 - Oursponding dagree

MOT

RATING

CHARACTERISTICS

SERvED

11.2

GET'S THINGS DONE

RESOURCEFUL

ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES

CAN MAKE

DECISIONS ON IS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES

DOES MIS JOG

WITHOUE STRONG SUSPORT

FACILITATES SHODIN OPERATION OF MIS OFFICE

WRITES EFFECTIVELY

SECURITY

CONSCIO: I$

THINKS CLEARLY

DISCIPLINE

1 ORIGINATINO, MAINTAININO AND DISPOSINO OF RECOROS

OTHER (Spacitri

SEF SECTION "E" ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

PORM 45 OBSOIRTE PREVIOUS COITIONS.

8-дв

14)

---

## Page 42

SECRET

SECTION E

Stress Fongths und wegknesses deinonstoted le fee fappion are

wevoh.

ivo rocommandations for his troining

aponsibilities.

Amplify or explain, ll appropriate, patroga given in SECTIONS 8, C, ond D lo provide me best basis for determining

futuro personnel actions.

MAIL ROOM

No furthor commonts to be added to previous reporte.

SECTION F

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B.C, D and E of this Report.

SIONATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Amal Taroll

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT DEEN SHOWN IS EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

12 Galy 1961

MONTNS EMPL

-OYEE

MAS BLEN

UNDER MY SUPERVISION

appo 2 months

REPORT IS NOT BEING MADE AT THIS PINE, DIVE REASON.

EMPLOYEE UNDER MY SUPERVISION LESS THAS R' DAYS

i AGOGHT MADE RIPHIN LAST AJ DAYS

OTHER (Spectly):

OFFICIAL TITLE SE SUPERVISOR

¡PIPED OR PRINTED NANE DUS SISVATURE

12 July 1961

Intelligence Assistant

3.

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT TIE SAME EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOTEE A MIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LODES EVALUATION.

ICANNOT JUÓGE THESE EVALUATIONS. TAN ANT SUFFICIENTLY FAME IF HITA TRE EMPLOYEE'S PERF SUSANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

DATE

12 July 1961

OFPICIAL TITLE O! REVIEBINO OFFICIAL

Chief, CI-Project

SECRET

TYPED OR

PRINTED NAME ASE SINATURE

---

## Page 43

Thon Filed 70) Circo

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMNER

FITNESS REPORT

125935

SECTION A

NAME

GENERAL

(Lead)

(Fleet)"

(11(00610)

TARASOLE & AnnA

SERVICE DESIGNATIONIA, OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

INTELE CLERK

CAREEN STAFF SAU

5 May 1923

MOT ELIGIBLE

PENING

10. DATE NEPORT DUE IN O.P.

30 Aar 11 1961

SECTION B

DECLINED

DEFEARED

DENIED

INITIAL

A, ORADE

F

GS-6

7. OFF/DIV/BE OF ASSIONMENT

DOP/CI STARFISIGEONE

TYPE OF REPORT

ALASBIGNMENT/ BUDERVISOR

SPECIAL (Specile)

31 March 00 - 31

L Narch 61

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

manner in which employee performs EACH specifie duty,

mith supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to suporaise (indicale sumber of sorea aupero/»ed).

T? • Borely edequate. 3 - Acceptoble

* • Competent

Is • Excellen O • Superior.

1 - Unsati stocracy

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. I

Transliterates Russian material.

"ATONO

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

lakos nano checks.

17. - Outstending

NO.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.?

*ATONO SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

RATINO

Operates Torifar machino.

5

"ATING SPECIFIC DUTY NO. +

BEATING

NO.

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. $

Takes over sone supervisory duties

during absence a cupcrvisor.

3

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account evarything obout the employes which influancos his offectiveness In his curront position - performance of spacille

lutlas, productivity, conduct on (ob, cooperativenass, pertinent personal troite or hobits, portieular limilations or talenge.

Based on

your knowladgo al employed e overall portormance

during the rating perlod, placo she roting numbar in the bos corresponding to tha

statemens mhich mo so occucily collects his loval of porformanca.

# AT 1901

SECTION D

1 • Least possibio dogroo

• Performando in many important respects foile lo

Performonce meeta most requirements but is deficient in one or more Importont »spee#s.

3.

Performanco elearly meets basie requiremenis.

Priformonco eloorly exceeds bosic requirements.

- Performanco in evory Important respect is superior.

- Performanco in avery rospece is outstanding.

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

in the rating bexes below, chock (X) the degree to which eoch characterietic applies po the employee

2 - Limitad degree

3 - Normol degree

14 - Aboro overogo degroe

5. Outstanding degree

CHARACTERISTICS

SERVEd

2

3.

GETS THINOS CONE

RESOURCEFUL

ACCEPTS RESDOUSIBILITIES

CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON MIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES

DOES MIS +00

BITHOUT STRONO SUPPORT

FACHLIYATES

SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE

WRITES

SECURITY CONSCIOUS

THINKSCLEAOLY

DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATINO, MAINTAININO ANO DISPOSINO OF RECORDS

OTHER(SPPINE

MORM 45 0880L

8-98

ETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SEE SECTION "E" ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

{a)

---

## Page 44

SECRET 45°

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOR AWARMANCE

MAiL,

so further commits to be added to previous repertican

SECTION F

CERTIFICATION-AND-COMMENTS...

BY EMPLOTEL

I certily that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

SIONATURE OF EMPLOYEE

in T 11020)

Y SUPERVISO

TA TNIA REPORT MAS NOT BEEN STOUN TO EMPLOYEE, OIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

12 April 1951

2.

MONTHS

SONER SUPERVISES

AS HEEN •

App. 3yoars

EMPLOVIE UNDER MY SUPE

OTHER (Spectly):

DATE

12 April 1951

MEPORT IS NOT BEINO MADE AT THIS TIME, DIVE HEASON.

THAN DO DAYS

RECAT MADE MITMIN LAST DO DAYS

OPPICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Intelligence Assistant

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIONA PURE

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

X/I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOVEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

¡I MOULD NAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOVEE A HIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULO HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LOWER ENA

•VATION.

I CANNOT, JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS., I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FARALIAR HITH TME EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS ON REVIENTS OFMCIAL

DATE

12 apie 61

OFFICIAL TITLE DE REVIEDING OFICIAL

Chief, CI-Froject

SECRET

TYPID OR PRINTED NAME ANO SIGMATURE

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SECRET

when filled ty

EMPLOYEE

5 MON

SECTION:

I. NAME

FITNESS REPORT

125935

{LA*2)

(81r09)

(Mistle)

TARASOFT :

Anna

D. DERVICE DESIONATION

•. OFFICIAL FONTION TITAR

SD/D

Intalligence Clerk

ЕП# ВТАРЕВТАТИЯ

GENERAL

& DATICT994

:5 Fay 1923

#. GRADE

6305

NOT ELIGIBLE

PENDINO

DECLINED

DEFERRED

DENIED

1o.

TATIAL

/ it tant a de la

DDP/SI/SID Profesta

TYPE OF REPONT

BIGAMENT/SUORRVIDEN

BIGAMNAT/EMPLOVE

10. DATE REPORT QUE IN O.".

30 Apr11 1960

Apr 59

• 31 March 60

SECTION B

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC PUTIES

Lins up to six of the most important specille duties

manner ln which employes porterme BACN speratie fordered during the

nod during pratee print to po formance of that duty.

Insert roting number which base Cascribes tha

All employees

with supervisory responsibilition MUST be roted on tale ability lo sugarpite duremo nomino ul employons upereiando.

1 - Unsolinfociory

2 • Boroly odequate

3 - Accoptoblo

3- Excelleno J6 • Superior

7 - Outstanding

sPECIFIC DUrrNo.l Tranblitoratoo Russian

"ATONO

JORGINe DuTYRS& Chocks transliteration RATING

wow's to dirst Junior Analysts.

NO.

raterial.

SPECIFIC DUTT NO.&

Oporates Varilaz rachine.

5

APECIFI DUTY TO.D

Cecile 2113 113t.

"ATON®

SPECIME DUTYNO.S Tales over somo

Superrisory dubios during

absenco of Supcirisor.

3

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke into accoune everything about the employao which Influencos hia allacreess in tis current position performance of specifle

duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooporativaness, pertinent parsonal preis de habies, particular limilarions or Bales.

Bored on

our animlodge of onplayos a overall pertormone

during the rating period, slote the voting number In the bos corresponding lo the

statement which mose accuratoly collecre his leval of performance

10N9ING

SECTION D

l • Least possible degroo

erformance in many important respocis tolls to me

priormonce muets most raquirements but is delleier

Ace do are important respocta.

Perlormance clearly menta baste requirementa.

Prolormance clearly escoeds basie requirements.

Porformanco in every important respect

is superior.

•Performance in every respect is outstonding.

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the eating bores below, chock (X) the degroo lo which enco choracteriare applies to the employee

2 • Limitad degroo

3 - Normol dagros

d- Abore overage degree

S - Dusstanding depres

NOT

NOT

CHARACTERISTICS

08+

SERVED

3.

GETS SHINGS DONE

RESOURCEFUL

ACCEFIS RESPONSIBiLITIES

CAN MARE DECISION ON HIS ON HEM NEED ARISES

DOES HIS JOO WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT

ITATES SMODIM OPERATION OF MIS OFFICE

ECTIVELY

SECURITY

410:.:19061123

THINNS CLEARLY

DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATIO, MAINTAININO ANO DISFOSINO OF RECOROS

OTHEA (SPACIN):

FORM 45 O0S0LRYE PREVIOUSEDITIONS.

#-90

SEE SECTION "F° ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

{4)

---

## Page 46

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION E

MARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

¡Give recommendorlons for his training.

sponsibilites.

Amplily o esplain, Il appopriate, ratings given in SECTIONS B, C, 'ond D.so provide mo unso bout for ares clong

future personnel astiens.

This erployoo is a conscientious worker and willingly carrion out all o

hor assignients irithin a roasonablo longth of timi. for translitoration "ork

is securate and fairli wajuctivo.

Durina tha absenco a the suporvivor, this amployes has taken over some cl

cuparvisory dution in an ascortablo manner. loever, It 1s kolieved that

she roquiros mora training in tis fiold.

This erployuo is schodulod to tako tho Agency Basic Supervision course on

2 Pay 1960.

1=-.

SECTION F:

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I certify that l hove seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

DATE

25 April 1960

IF THIS REPORT NAS NOT BEEN 340WN TO EMPLOYEE, OIVE EXPLANATION

Angeriratoly 2 years

BEINO MADE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

REPORT MADE WITHIN LAST DO OAV$

EMPLOYEE UNDER MY BUFE

OTHER (Spectly):

DATE

25 April 1960

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Intelligonco Amistant

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I ROELO NAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABDUT THE SAMA

EVALUATICA.

I DOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A MIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULO HAVE DIVEN THIS TMPLOYEE A LOWER EVALUATION.

JICANNOT JUDGE

THESE EVALUATIONS. TAN NOT SUFPICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

CONVERTS OF REVIEWINO OFFICIAL

DATE

29 April 1960

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chies, CI-Project

SECRET

HAME AND SIGNATURE

---

## Page 47

SECRET

(When fallen ha)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOVEE SERIAL NUMBER

125935

SECTION A

I. NAME

(Micalle)

(Loat)

TARASOFF, Anna

GENERAL

8. DATE OFBIHTP

5 May 1923

DEBIGNATION A. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

SD/DS

Intelligence Clerk

CAREER STATE STATUS

OEFERRED

MOT BLIGIBLE

now. 2018 8. ba

#. SEX

•, GRADE

F

GS -05

1, OFF/DIVIOR OF ASSIGNHENY

DDP/CI/SID - Projects

TUDE OF REPORT

ALASSIGNMENT SUPERVISON

ALASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE

PENDING

DECLINED

DENIED

10. DATE RAPORT DUE IN O.P.

11, APPORTINA PERIOD

30 April: 1959

2z Oct 58 thru Apr 39

SECTION &

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

of the sose important spocifle duties

manner in sick amalayan patorms CACH specte perlormed duting

a roting pariod. Insore eating number which bast describes Al

divanoss in performanco of thr dut

with supervisory resconsibilities MUST be rotod on their ability do superviso (melicare rumbor al employen auporiand).

1 - Unsatisloctory

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. I

Checke transiteration material of

Juntor Analysts.

3 • Acceptable

RAO!

FING

# • Competent

.12. Barely adequate

IS - Excellone 16 - Superioe

17 - Outsponding

RATING

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.A

3

RATINO

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Tranaliterates Russian material Into

RATINA

NO.

SPECIFIC OUTE NO. E

MATING

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, A

PaTiNd

NO.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.#

Operates Verifar nachine®

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Tako Into account everything about the employee

which influences his alloctireness in his current position - porformanco of sorcifie

duties, productivitt, conduct on ipe, cooperativeness, pertinont personal traite or hebirs,

particular limitations or solenta

Based on

your knowledge ol employee's overall performance

during she rating period, place the roting number in the bor corresponding to the

ßntement which most accurately refleces his lovel of pestornaneo

SEA FING

Performance In many important respects fails lo

meet requiremenes.

2 - Performanco meets most requirements but is deficient in ono or more Importon respects.

] - Performance clearly medla basic recuiremanos.

Performance cleorly auceoda basic requirements.

Performance in every important respect is superior.

• Perforiance in avary respect le outstanding.

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

SECTION D

In el: roting boros below, check (2) the degree lo which each choractoristic applies to the employee

1 • Least possible dogree

2 • Limited degree

3 - Normal dogroo

Ta - Abovo ovorogo degree

5. Outstanding degre

NOT

NOT

GATING

CHARACTERISTICS

CABLE

SERVED

GETS PHINOS DONE

RESOURCEFUL

ACCEPTI RESPONSIBILITIES

CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON MIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES

DOES HIS JOB "ITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT

FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OPFICE

WRITES EFPECTINELY

SECURITY CONSCIOUS

THINKS CLEARLY

DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATINO, MAINTAININO AND DISPOSING OF RECOROS

OTHER (Spectly):

SEE SECTICY "E OY REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

(a)

FORN

45 ONSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

---

## Page 48

SECRET

(When Filled in)

SECTION E

NARRA(VE DESCRIPTION OF MANNFR OF JOB PERFORMANCE

Indicato suggastions made lo empioyee for iprovemage al hla

sporisibilities.

futipo porsonnel actiona

Amplity o explain, ll approniate, ratings given in SECTIONS B. C, ond D lo providi the best bosis for determining

This eiployee 1s a steady, diligent, and conscientious worker.

Her transliteration

work le accurate and productive.

She has a native language ability in Russian which

1o a dorinite aid in her transliteration woske

Although this employee's wort is productive, her rite of production generally remains

at a fixed level, with no substantial inerease or decrease.

This 18 probably due to

the fact that there are no other stria with whom she can compete because of other

duties being assigned to then, or this employee may be of a non-competitive type.

This employee, although she does not meet the Agency qualifications In typing, has

taken the Agency's Refresher Courge In Typing.

However, this course was too

advanced for her and she vill probably require additional training and more practice

before she can become a quallfied typist.

Imployee's husband 19 employed within the Agency in the Foreign Documents DivisIOn.

It is believed that this employee has first line supervisory potential insofar as

her ability to get along with people and her umavering interest in her work are

concernede

However, she will regutre the necessary training along this line before

she would be capable of undertaking such supervisory duties.

SECTION F

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOVÉE

DATE

9 April 1959

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

NONERS UPERVISION BEEN

10

1P REPORT IS NOT BEINO MADE AT THIS TIME, DIVE REASON.

EMPLOYEE UNDER MY SUPERVISION

LESSTHAN 90DAYS

OTNER (Spocily):

REPORT MADE WITHIN LAST BO DAYS

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISON

TYPHO OR PRINTER NAME AND SIONA TURA

9 April 1959

Intelligence Assistant

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I WOULO MAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOVEE HOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOVEE & HIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMP.OYEE A LOWER EVALUATION.

I CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS. I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITA THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWINO OFFICIAL

OATE

9 Apr1l 1959

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chief, CI-Project

SECRET

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

---

## Page 49

SECRET

¡aron Fillad Ins;

FITNESS REPORT (Part I) PERFORMANCE

I • STRUCTION 3

POR TIE NIPIINISTHATIVE OFFICER: ConsulE current insteuvione for compireing this report.

subardinate anot lo transmit

f** NIE

ITERVIS: This report is designed to hels

upervisor med

and three alu *prea

yuur

coaluation of your

the sularil i.

Organisation policy requirre

that you inform

help

you

prepare

for

discussion with him of his

thie conlualion lo your.

of

the

801088..con

note where

he

stards with you.

organisatin

policy that you alow fart lof this refore

to

the

enoloyee encopi

orreneths and weoknesses.

It is

under conditiona

specilied in

ulat ines

20-370.

recommended that you read the entire form before completing

the employee.

it munt be

IL. Phis

i&

that

P'erennel no later than 30 days all

the dair initeatrif

item A,

of fretion

betow.

SECTION

GENERAL

10 5010)

DATE OF

BIATH

SET

SERVICE DESIGHATION

SD: DS

"(Loat)

Tarasalls

_Anna

3. OFFICE DIVISION/ ARANCH OF

ASSIGAMEAT

DATE REPORT PEPPOSE

REPORT DUE 19

GRADE

G8-4

10.

FreE

oF.

REPORT

(check one)

SECTION B.

THE ENTER: -TIS REPORT XJ HAS

F

ICIAL

POSITION TITLE

Intel Cus

PERIOD COVERED

THIS REPORT (Inr/urve

##P08)

23 June 1958-22 October 1958

SPECIAL (SPECiES)

Possible promotion

__CERTIFICATION

HAS HOT BEEN

SHORN TO THE INDIViDUAL AÁTÃO."

TS NÜT SHOON. EXPLAIN WAY

40т:

CHICH (X) APPROPAIATE

STATEUENISI

НІЗ ТРЕСТ МУ ОШЕ СРНОВ

* M093 NOS

PRORA-RAPHECISITHE COMBINED OPENIONE

THIS DATE

ANO SIGNATURE

21 October 1958

ANY SUESTANYIAL

FOR THE RESENCE ONE GLAD TORE DETER UNDERSING OF THES

10 A

SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

Intelligence Asst®

WITH THE SUPERNISOR. OR ANY OTHER IN.

certify thot any subsential difference

of

opanion with

the :

supervisor

TYPED

OR POINTEA SAUT

AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING

THIS DATE

21 October 1958

OFFICIAL

the above section.

OFFICIAL

TITLE OF REGIENING OFFICIAL

Chief, C/I Project

SECTION C.

JOB PEEFORMANCE EVALUATION

RATING ON SEVERAL

PERTORMANCE OF DUTIES

ONIY

the productivity

an! effectiveness will, which the individual being

ared has periormo

at s similar level of respon

DIRCTIONS:

Consider

nis duties during the

ratine perial.

Compare ham (SLY with others doine

in Section

sibility.

Factors othes than

productivity

nell be paken into

HIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLY:

INSERT

RATING

NUMBER

ALSOCH ME MAS

MAO SPECIFIC GUIDANCE OR IRRISING.

OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME AREA OF BARNESS.

MAAMER.

DUiSTANDING MANNER

MES MESPO SHAN IT IS COCARTION BY"

FEEDINDA PERSONS ANONE TO

PERFORMS MIS DUTIES 18 SUC

EY

COMENTS:

P.-

29,0 ст

1. 11

rmance -

4449

tig.

45 (Part. 1)

35

PROSE SECRET.

29 a40 850

OSSOLETE

---

## Page 50

SECRET

Filled Ins

=.

b.

rach speritis duty considerine MNlY effectiveness

5. For supervisors, ability to

sinkrrise Bill ilwaye lie

#ho

₫. Сопраге.

the may be performing different it weill

Framples of the kind of authes that misht be rated are:

HAS AND USES AREA ENOWLEDGA

OPES INNTRRMCATRUMS

DEVELOPS ARE PROGRANS

PREPARES

SINNARIES

AVALYZES INDUSTRIAL

REPORTS

TRAUSLATES GERUAR

DERRIEPING, SOURCES

KEEl'S BOOKS

COORDINATES WITH OTHER OFFICES

DRIVES TOUCH

WRITES REGULATIONS

MAINTAINS AlL CONDITIONING

FREPARES CORRESPONDENCE

EVALUATES

SIGVIFICANCE OF DATA

even lurther if supervinos considers it advisable, e.s..

comisined key

AARELY ADEQUATE YE ME PERFORUANCE OF

3. PERTORMS THIS OUTE AGCHPTARLY

8 * PERFORMS IHIS-DUTY.I

DUTSTAHOING MANNER

FOUND IN VERY FEE ARDIVIDUALS HOLDING SIMI

2005

ANYONE I NADE IN THE PEOSDRMANCE OF

THIS DUTY

orcirc purrso. I Transliterates Russian

material into inglish.

specores duty 8o. ? Reproduces material

on verifar machine.

SARSAGIE DUTY NO. S

RATION

SPECIFIE DUTY NO. 3

HUMAER

_4.

RATING

SORGIRAG DUPE

PSET GE 31

ERFORMANCE

МАККАТТРС СЕЗСИІРТОН ВЕ МАтнЕ? !? ліВ

DISSATIONS:

Stress strengths and vertnesses.

particularly thoer which affred development on progers job.

Enployee's work is productive and her accuracy has improved

steadily.

She 18

cooperative and conscientious and is willing to learn additional cuties which

my be assigned to here

RATING

RATING

YUMARA

HATING

NUMBEA

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGANIZATION

THANANKI

Pershing you know above the individuald not od fis in ron yes eno don-

ersinene personal chandlerials order boulecie

apecial delects or tolenta... und how he

ore his wath ochers doing simalar

ACCEPTED MIM IF I HAD

CUPRNYFE... BELOR AVERAGE BUT MITH NO WEARNESSES SUSFICIENTLY

OUTSTAXDING TO WAR-

OF INE SAME SUITARILITY AS RUSY PEOPLE I ANCH IN THE ORGANIZAFION

MAS SOVE DEISTANDING STRENGTHS

EXCELLEO OY ONIY A FEB IO SUIPABILITY FOR MORE IN THE ORGANIZATION

I5 TNIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITEO FOR DIRA 18 SOME OTNER PESITION IN INE ORGANIZATION?

SECRET

---

## Page 51

14-00000

SECRET

(B90o Filled ta!

ÄK MIE: AININISTRATIVE OFFICER:

FITNESS REPORT (Part Il) POTENTIAL

INSTRUCTICAS

Consult current instrutions for culetone this report.

personnel officials concerning

It is cecommenaleel

that you real the entire report

84848TAB10N FIX AT LAST #O CATS.

Is to completed only after thr

Tid and conlete alter

•elalal nod formanded ln the in' no later shan do days after the tie date inlicated in ipe

GENERAL

SECTION E.

(4a08)

(Fline)

Tarasoffs.

Anna

OFFICE/DIVISION! BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT

DDP/CI Staff/SID ProJ.

imiddle)

DATE "* BIRTH

515/23

CAFICIAL POSITION PITRE

SER

F

8l Sesa than 90 days.

SERVICE DESIGNATION

SD: DS

PERITO COVEREO P

23 June 1959-22 October 1958

The dones

Possible promotion

THAT THIS REPORT REPRESE

21 October 1958

522!

THE REVIEWING IFFIGLAS'

ALMAVE

ATVIANE?

THIS

DATE

TYPEO DA PRINTIO LANI SOO SIGNATUSE OF HELIERING

23

October 1958

• SUPERVISOR'S DEFICIAL

Intelligence Assto

KENENCE SE SSINION IN ATTACHED NEMO.

DEFIETAL FETTO REVIEDING OFFICIAL

Chief, CI/Project

SECTION

G.

ESTINATE OF POTENTIAL

POTENTIAL

.1O ASSUME ORLATER RISPONSIBILLILES

Considering others of his

anil dupe of assisntent.

cale the

employte's potential

of responsitility encountered de the various levels

in his kind of

responsibilities.

6

NIGMER

indicare below your opinion ot

STITLE TRAINING.

Indicase your opinion sy placing the nunder

so papressing your opinion in the

If based on opinion of his poten?aal

HAVE NO OPINION

the paring in the "potential" solunn.

core canner sume Tra

cialisee of saring

GROUP Of SUPERNISCES 4=3

Di BURBROISIOS. 00000 19 828905818:

It HAT

ANNA COMINGTOTA

1

1

1 060 8 0 1 A.98

REPLACES PREVIOUS

EXITIOS

•r$s 45 (Part 11) or FoRus e5 240 450

SECRET

ARE OBSOLETE.

Potential

.,a)

---

## Page 52

14-00000

SECRET

INDICATE THE APPRORIMAIE NUMBER ON MONTUS

1HA. MAIAO COPLONNE MAS 1E

5 Months

COMMENTS CONCERNIDG POTENTIAL

Nave no opinion concerning employee's potertial

It tens time

• 02 P0 09

MAIL ROOM

SECTION M.

FUTURE PLANS

FRAMING DE OTHER DEVELOPMENTAL EXPERIENÇE FLAMMED FOR THE EMOTVIDUAL

On-the-job training is all that ls necessary for this employee at this time.

MOTE OTHER FACTORS, INCLUDING PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES, TO BL

TAXEN INTO ACCOUNT IN INDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE ASSIGAMENTS

Employee is a conscientious and diligent individual. She readily carries out the .

various duties assigned to her and shows a willingnesa to take on any additional

assignmento.

Thia section

CATEGORY NUMBER

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL

provided as en ald to describing the individual as you sre him on the jol

» some dearco to most people

page below are

hos much the seatement applica

to the person courred by this repore.

INDOVIQUAL

OBSERVED THISI DiENCE CAM GIVE NO OPIMION AS TO HON THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE

APPLIES

TO THE INDIVIDUAL TO PNE LEAST POSSIBLE DEGREE

PPLIES

INDIYIDUAL

A LIMITCO DEGREE

INDIVIDUAL

AN AVERAGE DEGREE

APPLIES

INDIVIDUAL

AN

AVERAGE DEGREE

TO-INDIVIDUAL

AN

OUTSTANDIMG DEGREE

FAIRGUST

STATEMENT

CATEGORY

THAT EIL:

CATEGORY

3

3

3

5.

3

3

7.

3

10.

ADLE TO

BAX-ANOPHER'»

+188

• ==

HA B

INETOATINE

SO ANALYTIC INMIS

RHODLEDGE

40 0

IDBA8

$ 00 0%

ASSISTANCE

#I T

HAS MRHODY POO PACTS

GETS THINGS DONE

CAM

4

3

3

12.

SHODS ORIGINALITY

19.

ACCEPTS BESPONBIBILA.

T1&9

14.

ADMISS MIS ERRORS

15.

18.

D0ds

PROVe SUPPORT

18 085880098

PRIDES CERANEY

20.

508084948

SECRET

3

3

3

3

3

4

29.

REFECTIO"

DIACUS.

SIONS HIIN AISOCIATES

1886848098

23. I8 THOUGNISNL OR OTHERS

₴4.

HORES B6L6 UNDIA PRUSSUS

2D. CISPRATS JUDGERENT

28. 0S SECURITY CONSCIOUS

88. 18 GERSATISE

1a.

30.

AND COMPINUONS SUPRANO

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SECRET

FITNESS REPONT (PareD PERFORVANCE

INSTAUCTIONS

FOR THE NIPINISTRATIVE DEFIERS: TORRUdE

isset FINe 881795

"Tor tragedise

That cupore.

praisition el rous subnedinate onl to cranerat

FOR: TE

SUFVVISI:

This argee d9 designed do help

MA: •H8781408

you eagem rain picy rested that you

intora the

wich him of to7

this realistion to your

tho

repore can 'hele

diacussion

nate

where

•8100

polley that you

Poor ter

this repare lo lhe

player

and weaknesars.

comfitione

apricifirl in Kegulre

241-99.

le 4o recommerind that

reat the entire

and lo tour to are notice

any.

Tarations,

If thie

is.8he

Irroreel no later than 10 days offre

the

•tage innelicattis in

•for stim

SECTION A.

Triddlo)!

0178 05 0197

38 M

SERVICE CCSIGNATIOU

5 May 1935

F

DS

Titut

OFFICE DIVISION/ BEAUCR

DDP /T7/D/PB

Clerk

Indusire dales)

GRADE

DAId RiPORT DUE

CS. 44

:14 July 1957 - 31 December 1957

10161Ar

(Specifr)

TUDE OF DEPORT

(Chert ono)

CERTIFICATION

T7%0T SAGON. DSPLAIN MN.

SECTION

OT:

CHICA (X)

arcause (saprily):

VISORIS OLLICIAL INTLE

THIS DAYE

31 Dec. 1987

TOO TOT RIVIL

UNDENSTANDING OF

DATE

1/3)5P

CONTINUED

certily that any substantial differener

pinion with thy supervsee in sri

the above

sextich.

THIS DATE

TYPED OR PRIATIO MAVE

AND

if. $20.39.8÷

AFICIAL

TITLEDS REVIE NO 091II

- 05510194

Jan 1453

*Shai. Officer, FI/E/PB

SECTION C.

JOB PERFORMANCE EVALUATICO

RATING DA GENERAL PERCORMANCE SE PELLES

$1141

affect

muess sith seros she artiredual being raded has

DIFFCTIONS:

Consider

only she productivity

155920°

hes duties during the

sagine perial.

(2ama88 him ONlY with

others 41958 8492103

wil as a similar

sability.

other than productivity will be saken

41880 4020477)

ar faction D.

DOES MOY PERFORE DUTIES ACECUAYELY.

HE

INCOMPETENT.

BARELY

ADEQUATE

FERFiGUANCE:

ALTHOUGE ME HAS

SPECIFIE # DONCE OR TRAINING, HE DETÉN SAILS TI

CANNY 919Y

RESPOSSIBILITIAS

PLAFORUS NOST OF

DITIES

OCCASICOALLO KITESUS SOME RESO OF HEAXNESS..

-PERFORES

DUTIES 14

COUPETEDY, EFFECTINE DAGGER.

A FINE PERFORMANCE.

CARRIES OUT MEAN

MIS RESPOASIRILITIES ERICTTICRALLY

WELL.

PERFORNS

HIS DUTIES 1R

SLIP DO OUISTAXDING MAYDER THAT O IS IDALSO

FEW OTHER PERSONS AGEM NE

THE SUPERXISOR.

COOLESTS:

FORM 8D. 45 (Part

I gOY 53

REPLAiS

aRE

ANIS SECRET

#xICr

Performance

---

## Page 54

SECRET

OFFICE OS PERORAREL

SPECHIMI

DIXIETERS:

=.

sende in thie apacre UtiO

al the mer importans SECTfll dutire

Ples entire persons.

einsate and osly

late profatmance

.12.06 PH 58...

ability lo speedine sill alasys be ented no a spellio dusydo noo ro

the some duty it a

d. Cropatr

i for menonsability.

possible, the indiridual loing dused witti othere periotall AfRe on differens.

jole pillo any de performing deflorene duties.

Framples of the kind of duetre

that might be rarel are:

NAS AED USES ARFA KNIULEDOR.

CONDICTS INTRRADOATIONS

DFIFLOPS NEE PROGRANT

TRAUSLATES GENRAY

BRITINO TECHNICAL

CONDUCTING EXTERNAL LIAISON

TAKING DICTATION

8. For some jobs.

lueles may be beoken down rgen

COORDIVATES SITH OTHPA OFFICES

CRETARES CORRÉSPONDENCE

MAINTAINS AIR CONDITIONING

•EVALUATES SIGVIFICANCE U8

DATAI

DESCHIOTIVE

RATING

NUMBER

INCOSPITENT.

PEAPOQUANCE OF THIS DUTY

THE PERIOHMANCE

THIS

PIAFORNS

DUTY

IN AM

OUTSTANUING MANNER

FOUND IN VENT EGO INDIVIDUALS MOLUIGG SINI.

DUTY

NORS

PERFORMS

THIS.UUTY ACCEPTADLY

EXCELS

ANTOME I ANON IN THE PERRINGRUCE DE

THIS DUTY

THIS DUTY IN A COUPETAME MANNER

PERFORMS

DUTY

PIGE

WARNEA

IS A DISTINCT

AS3AT ON

BAT 176

I JANEN

Loscing Intelligonce interial

5.

RATING

NUNDER

104 M9T

MAP INTI

GUNSES

Filing

RATING

NUMBER

4.

tA-91401,

Relatad Clerical Duties

NARRATIVE

DECEMAN HBLM

OF JOB PIRFOQUANCE

DINECTIONS:

Streas strengths and weoknerses,

porticularly those which alfree developmens on present job.

Individual very alert and cho perfors all her dutios in an accurats, competent and

thorough manner. She is a dofinit: assot to the offico.

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IM ORGANIZATION

into account here ruerything you know nhout the

terialice or hobieo.

individuals herod he in with your team.

reveir salenes.

UNSUITABLE • HE SNAILO !!

OF THE

IM NO MANESSES SORRICINTOS NUTSTANDING TO MAR.

"MIS INDIVIQUAL BEYTER SUITIO FOR #ORX IN

SUITABILITY AS MOST PEOPLE

1 INDE 14 THE ORGANIIATION

HAS SOME OUTSTANHING STRENGTHS

TERNS OF YME REQUIHENENES OF

THE UNCANITATION

OTHER POSITION IN THE ORGANIZATIONT

0.0..

SECRET

---

## Page 55

STANDARD FORM SA

REVISED JULY 1902

U.S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISON

CHAPTER 1.3, F.P.R1.

50704

SULL NAME OF EMPLOITE

is. (10388)

AGENCY CERTIFICATION OF IN:

ANCE STATUS

Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act

(Pinst)

DATE OF SIRIN (MONIN, DAY, YEAR)

(0)

(b).

Farasolt

Anna

• CHECK THE REASON FOR TIENINATING INSURANCE

SEPARaTIO

66 DIDEO

WAS EMPLOYEE AT TIME OF

#ETIRES

DEATH

AN APPLICANT FOR

CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENTE

TES

NO

May 5, 1923

12

MONTHS

NON-PAY

$TATUS

OTHER (Specify)

CHECK APPROPRIATE A GENCE ENING S

34 DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY

10).

CURRENT S. F. 54 15

CURRENT

S. F. 34 ATTACNIO

(0).

NOT URN ME WITH THIS

CURRENT 3. F. 34 15 ON

FILE IN

(ch

THE EMPLOYEE'S OFFICIAL FERSONNEL

AGENCY

FOIDER (OR EQUIVALENT)

NOTES IF EMPIOYEE LAI PAÇO DIE ISI IS RETIRING OR RECEIVING FIDERAL EMPIOTEES' COMPENSATION UNDER CONDITIONIS ENTITLNG HIM TO RETAIN

FARE LIFE INSURANCE ATTACH CURRENI S. F. S6. IF ANY, 1O ORIGINALS. F. SS AND CHECK DOX A 13) ON ORiGINAL AND ALL COPIES OF 5. 1.

56: 18 NO CURENATE F. SAIS ON FILE, CHECK BOX A (0}.

IN ALL OIHER CASES SHOW WHETHER OR NOT CURRENT S. F. S4 IS ON FILE BY

CHECKING BOX A T) C*(0)

A CUERENT SA F. SA IS ONE IMAT MAS NOT BEEN CANCELLO BY EMPLOYEE OR AUTOMATICALLY BY TRANSFER OR

PRIOR TERMINATION CA INSURANCE.

3, DATE OF EVENT CHECKES IN ITEM J

5 ANNUAL COMPENSATION RATE • NOT A WCLINT OF IN.

7. DATE OF NOTICE OF CONVERSION

(MONTH, DAY, YEAT

SURANCE - ¡CONVERT. DANY, HOURLY,

PIECEWORK, EXC

PRIVILEGE (SF S5) TO EMPLOYEE

Septamber 8. 1963

RATE TOANADA!

RAJI ON DATE IN ITEM S

545.00

(MONTH, DAY, YEAR)

PER ANNUM

October Ze

1963

A. I CERTIFY THAT THE ABDUL INFORMATION HAS BEEN OBTAINED FROM, AND CORRECTLY REFLECTS OFFICIAL RECORDS,

AND THAT THE EMPLOYEE

NAMED WAS COVERED BY FEDERAL EMPIOYEES' GROUP UFE INSURANCE ON THE DATE SHOWN IN ITEM # (SIGN ORIGINAL ONLT)

2 OCT 1963

(Parvene rigenetee it authenize oper official)

Type mame di anchorised opensy officiend,

parma of agency

(Tine]

P.O. 30x 3521, Central Station,

Arlington,

Va 22203

•(Maling odstens of agueryl

SEE OTHER SIDE

FOR

INSTRUCTIONS TO EMPLOYING AGENCY

PART 3 = FILI COPY

---

## Page 56

andard fasti

680968 9164

•TH BENEFITS REGISTRATION FON

IDINAL INPADISE: HEALTH BINETITS ACT EE 10BO

pearls, a lane on terred or tude pray"

Use insings+ +90 00148181

259)

DATE Do aN

robes)

LAR

092790

Aro

pres

mauseriort?

PART A

A!L #NO

ALGISTER

DU THIS

PART.

PART 8

PART IS TOU

wiSH 10 EM-

BULL IN A

MIALTY SENETIES

HAH.

neerarman

3167-844 i104919

arrellada!

clos

• applies

THIS PART MUST

RISO BE FILLIO

IN IF TOU

GINGE TOUR

LA ROLLABAT.

‹ PART_

F112 IN THIS

PARt IF YOU

NiH NOT TO

ENROLL OR 18

YOU VISH TO

CEFOLLAENT.

PART D

bIES IN THIS

paZi I YOU

* I:H 10

GANGE YOUR

PART E

SIL WHO

RISISTER

dust fit

IN MIS PART

PART F

IU BE

(UUP:t110

AGENCY.

нам?

FLASIL

VIAN

TARASTFE

AliA

#. YOUR MALILE ADDRESS

WEE WAS STREET,

5.

TONY AND ENE

_5.

123

sex

MA 011)

2019 Calm aville Stea

Are you cornied br.

terpe balame con

Has nates 20004

proper bor

to slow, your annual buer Tulery

ered by a: emoting

a glun undor the foderal Employeos

Heaith Boneles Act of 1920

troopal, the enroliner al oriorho

Uniled Sic'es de Disties ol Columbria Governanant orplayoo o

annuisanty?

S4 030 10 33.02' 622

BRUN CROITE CIA

le's to enroll in a houd, lenefits plan as shorn fraise.

lautorie detec rons to be made liom my

salary, corpose.de, or anniy

Po cover my phare al ple rin' of the enrollment

fenny the internestor minibel bade hem isido cover of loudero of the pier you solent.

NAME OF PLANA

Include c'so any unrolled chill orde

al seif suppor?.

NAMES OF SANYT MINEINS

teres treet Tasi, Then goss pandered christen under

19 are become duasis tote ugo 18 ond mha, becouto of the disabrit, is incousin

19400.08.)

DATE OF SHIM

DAIT DO BIRTH

MIMI: DO PALARY MIMBIES

Hlu.buand

le you aro a female employee or onnuitani)-does the lumity listed etore include o husiand uho is iniapablo of solt.

support by reason al meniol or physical disabilly winch can in erprisi lo contarue for more thian ond year? Ill oremo

allach a dor 101 a co1tr-cütes.)

rts

NO

T. Teleet not to erall in any fian

under He Msaith Derafits Act.

To resen turmy sieran is pides un "X" in prefer bone)

let lom echerry by a gone ender tie bleaich Berefto air througs the encall.

men of my dust a cat plan which is not under the Hoste

Benefits Ail.

100

03

2. I olor: lo concel my presont ensuil.

ment conier tro Meals Benefits Aci.

ciece to crange me engisco as snome ter the er

pennent cantee anties mange on Fare 8

Enrollmer.i code nurr.er of present plan.

13. Dule of evens which permit trenge

DAT

13 june 1:60

WARNING. - Any intantianal lairo stapoment in

tris agginiatian or

thereto is a violation

of sha lon puratable by a

fine of not mare than $10.000 de imperassinent ol

19l more PRan $ yesss, de does.

11B U.S. 6. 1001.1

a che cartoo irrati

JATE DECRIVEN IN

RECTION

2/00/00-

REMARKS

1. 2 USE ONLY

CI

triplicate- le Empiering Doe

12513%

APER 10S9

11=69

---

## Page 57

14-00000

STANDARU ORM G1

FINNICO MARIN PIO

EL I CAL SERVICE CONMISSION

F. P.M. CHAPTER AS

APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

IAMPORTANT.- Bolore swearind to these appointment affidavits, you should read and understand

the attached information for appointee

CENTRAL INTFLLIGENCE AGENCY

(Operemont dr cancy)

(Bureau ar dividon)

Hashtraton, D.Ce

Anna Tarasoft

00000000000000---------=am

., do solemnly swear (or affirma) that

A. OATH OF OFFICE

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and

domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely

without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and faithfully discharge the

duties of the oftice on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION

I am not a Communist or Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I knowingly a member of any

organization that advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of the Government of the

United States, or which seeks by force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the

Constitution of the United States. I do further swear (or affirm) that I will not so advocate,

nor will I knowingly become a member of such organization during the period that I am an ern-

ployee of the Federal Government or any agency thereof.

C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any

agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United

States of any agency thereol. I do not and will not assert the right to strike against the Govern-

ment of the United States or any agency thereof while an employee of the Govemment of the

United States or any agency thereof. I do further swear (or alrirm) that I am not knowingly a

member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the

Gorernment of the United States or any agency thereof and I will not, while an employee of the

Goverment of the United States or any agency thercof, knowingly berome a member of such an

D. AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE

Thave not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any con-

sideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing such appointment.

E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

The answers given in the Declaration of Appointee on the reverse of this form are true and

correct.

8 AST 1957

Alicio

(Onts of co

Subscribed and sworn before me this

at

Hashington, D.Ccoi

Eth

day of ....

April

- A. D. 1957:,

(State)

• * J 15a

(SEAL]

12161

Appointment

Clerks

NOTE.--If the oath is taken before a Notary Public the date of expiration of his commission should

be shown.

25NINOS

---

## Page 58

DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty.

Intrer al! questions.

Admited infavorable

information about such matters as arrests or discharges will be considered together with the faserable information

in your record in determining your present fitness for Federal employment.

However, a faise statement or

dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for dismissal after appointment and is punishable by law.

6. PRESENT ADDAESS (elrool and numbor, city and Scara)

1511 CANESViLLE 51.

SE

Weisit

•DiE

& (A) DATE OF ARTH

(1) PLACE OF BIRTH. (sily and SPale de cily and lossian couniry)

5-5:33

Clintensi

itic

# (A) IN CASE OF ENERGANCY, PLEASE HOTIFY

(B) ILLATIVESHI

(C) STRENT AND IUMBER, CITY AND STATE

(0) TELIPHONE NO

88. HiS

LANIRSGEE

resistern

1379 Gainesville s7s2

Lic 9-1.3561

1. DOES THE LMITED STATES GOVEANMINT EMPLOY, IN A CIVIAN CAPACITY, ANY RELATIVE OF YOURS (EITHLA BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGO) WIT'I WHOS VON LATE OR MAVE LIVED WITHJ

THE PAST 2A MONTHS! VIS 17MO

11 00, 80r esch duch relative fil in the Blond below.

•ll additional apoco is necesary, complore undor liom 12.

MAME

POST OFFICE ADDRESS

DESTINIE (2) TEMPORARY OR ADI

(Giro atreat number, il ang)

RETROTEN

RHLATIONSHIP

GUE

(Check ame

1113: 1: 57,

221 insible disc

INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING "*" IN PAOPER COLUMN

YES

NO

INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING "Y" IN PROPER COLUMN

J. (A) ARE YOU A CITIZEP DE THE UMITED STATES OF AISERICA, OR (5) AS A

RATIVE OF AMERICAN SAMDA DO YOU OWE ALLEGLANCE TO THE GAITED

STATES OF AMERICAR

I. ARE YOU AN OFFICIAL ON EMPLOYEE OF ANY STATE, TERRITORY, COUNTY, OF

MUNICIPALITY?

Il your anamer la "Yos," dive datella in Ilem 12.

COUTUNMEMY UNDER ANY RETIREMEN

ANY PLACION O4 DIHER COMPLASATION FON MLIBARY OR NAVA

YOU EVER FILED A WAIVER OF LIFE MISTRIDE COVERAGE

UNDER THE FLOLPAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE ENSURINCE BiTI

(B) 1F VT J HAVE FILED SUCH A WAIVER, HAS IT BEDA CANCELED OR

REVOKEDY

SERVICES

Il your anamer le "Yos," dive detaile in item 13.

BEEN ARRESTED.

IAFORCEMENT AUTHORITILS

STATE LAW, COUNTY OR MUNICH

NOT INCLUDE TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS

11, SINCE YOU FILED APPLICATION RESULTING IN THIS APPOINTMENT:

A, MAVE YOU WIN DACHARGER FROM FUMDYMESY ETCAUSE.

(1) TOUR OGADUCT VIAS NOT SATISFACTCRVP

(2) YOUR WORK WAS HOT SATISFACTORTI

B, HAVE YOU RESIGNED AFTER OFFICIAL NOTIFICATICIA THAT:

(1) YOUR CUREDUCT WAS NOT SATISFACTORYY

(1) YOUR WORK, WAS MOT SATISFNCTORYI

C. MAVE YOU BEEN DISCHARGEO FROM THE ARMID SERVICES UNDER

OTHER THAN MONORAELE CONDITIONSI

9. SINCE YOU FILED APPLICATION RESULTING IN THIS APPOINTMENT.

YOU BEEN BARREO BY THE U.S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION FROM TAKING

ECAMINATIONS OR ACCEPTING CIVIL SEAVICE APPOINTMENTS?

shawar is "Yos.""

sara renorto appreciolio. and

in asch case.

N

22 SPACT TOR CETALLO AASWERS TU OTHER QUESTICAS (Indicaro item numbers lo mhich anomers apply.)

ITEM NO

I| ITEM NO

inion.

д.f.a^

YES

x

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER.- You must determine at tal appointment moul be in conformance

wilb the Civil Service Act, applicabie Civit Service Rules and Regulations, and acte of Ormyress pertaining lu appelhirgent.

or Tamily A be entaiah the went of the anointee you should part distan one nur dad men

against the application and /or other pertinent papers and (2) his physical appearance agaisy the medical certicates)

##. #.C07+98498) 06149159 CKS 19--36100-8

---

## Page 59

STANDARD FORM 184

REVISIO SAPTENDER TONA

417181

090303593080

STATEMENT OF PRIOR FEDERAL

AN AND MILITARY SERVICE

AND DETERMINATION Or GUMPETITIVE STATUS

IMPORTANT: The information on this form will be üsed (1) in desermining creditable service for leave purposes and retention

eredite for reduction in force, and' (?)in recording agency determination of competitive situs.

The employce

ahould' complere Part & abd the Persoonci Office adoüld complete Parts Il through V.

PART L-EMPLOYEES STATEMENT

1, NAME (Laat, erad, sidello initian)

2 DATE OF BIRTH

PART 11. -THIS COLUMN IS

FOR PERSONNEL OFFICE USE

$. RETENTION GROUP

TARASiTE, AARA

15-5-2.3

POTS ONE SENT NO DETENT OF COLUMNIA SERVICE YOU HAVE MAD

1R0M

MANI ANO LOCATICH OF AGENCY

ROHIT DAY

YEAR MONTH DAY

APPCINTMEN

IF KHOWH

10 A ESCSTATUS ]VES 1] NO

"IFORT RESENT

I. SERVICE

YEAN

DAY

#ASTERY SEE RICHNITE NIRE ANY BRANCH OF THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES, IF YOU HAD NO LETIVE

BRANCIA

YEAR

FRON

MONTH BAY

MONTH, DAY

. DURING PERIONS OF EMPLOYMENT SHOWN IN ITEM 3. DIO YOU HALE & TOTAL OF MORE THAN 8 MONTHS ABSENCE 12. TOTAL SERVICI

NITHOUT PAY, INCLUDING PERIODS OF MERCHANT MARINE SERVICE DURING ANY ONE CALENDAR YEART ' YES ONC

IF ANSWER IS "YIS." LIST FOLLOWING INFORMATION,

3. NONCREDITADLE SERVK

Laara pusposas ory

TOTAL

(WOP, Fart Sur WOL, Star Star)

ткен! монти.

da?

TEAR

SONTH DAY TEARS NADATES DAYS

12 NONE RUPPABLE SERVICE

DUE DORES ONLY

15. REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS

16 RETENTION RIGHTS

17. FIRSATION DATE UE RETEN-

a DURING THE FEDERAL SERVICE LISTED IN ITEM I DID YOU ACQUIRE A PERMANENT COMPETITIVE CIVIL SERVICE STATUSI

DIVES DU

('lanses id "Yua" in saras norry mera pou omplored at ino limo natus man acquired?"

J. ARE YOU:

A THE DAFE OF A DISABLED VETERAN? D'ASS / 900

O THE MOTHER DR A DECEASES OR CASHELFO VETERAN? 1] VES [I NO

C THE UNTRAINED MESS OF A VETERARY YES

&. TO DE EXECUTED EETORE A NOTARY PUBLIC OR OTHER PERSONS AUTORIZED TO ADMINISTER OATHS.

I swcar (or affirm) that the above statements are true so the best of my knowledge and belief.

Hil S 2932

Ano I aces

Subocrited and suora to before me on thia day ol

isenu19-91

(CITY) ..

(STATE)

SBAL

andi Firee

NOTE: Il oath is taken before a Notary Publie, the date of expiration of his Comminion should be shown.

INSTRUCTIONS:

Sido a i for da the perennet side of the emplayses official personnel folder immediately before or after the personnel

(OVER)

10-00490-8

---

## Page 60

14-00000

rain determination is base upon the followin

DATE

SIGNATUHE AND OFFICIAL TITLE

NAME OF AGENCY

PART IV..- DETERMINATION OF CREDITABLE SERVICE AND SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE FOR LEAVE PURPOSES

ENTRANCE ON

TOTAL SERVICE

(/tem 12)

HONCREDITABLE.

SERVICE

(1tomm 13)

CREDITABLE

SERVICE

DUTY DATE

(LARTO PUrPOSES)

(Prosene Alonce)

LESS CREDITABLE

SERVICE

SERVICE COR-

PUTATION DATE

(Losso Purposes)

Year®

Months

3

Doys.

PART V.- DETERMINATION OF CREDITABLE SERVICE-AND SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE FOR REDUCTION IN FORCE PURPOSES, (Complote only in

those cases when tro amount of croditablo servico for reduction in forco purposes dillers iron the amount creditable los

leave purposes.)

TOTAL SERVICE

(18om 12).

NONCREDITABLE

SERVICE

(from 14)

REDITABL

ERVIC

(RIF PurpORar)

ENTRANCE ON

DUTY DATE

(Prosent Afancy)

LOS CREDITASLE

SERVICE

(RIE FUrANS)

SERVICE COM-

PUTATION DATE

(81F Purposes)

Years

Months

Days

"Enter as the "Serrit Crapeialua Dule" on the employee's "Service Recurd Cario" Caruo" S87

REMARKS:

---

## Page 61

•

SECRET

(Whon Falled In)

PER 100 IC

SUPPLEMENT

PERSONAL MISTORY STATEMENT

APR

THIS DATE

HAX 19.58

INSTNCTIONS

Even PRoudA il duplicatos

prodorony dad mara chart roos leil devone

forniadod precionely.

¿ notion

complete Sesterhe l troudl dil

ton toggiros sare

cocordo

• Hall do dopt current

for

• chando

aanco you priored on

coverado than you Aaro aroriouslo coported.

SECTICR

FULL HAME CLASP-TE

IRRASSEE,

7. CURRENT ADDRESS (No..

GENERAL

Streol.

City, done, State)

PERMANINT

ADDRESS (No.,

Street.

City, lone, Stato)

229 GANESHINE ST, SEL, NOSER 2E DEFER TOR

SECTICK DI

PERSON

TO BE NUTIFICO IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

NADE (LaSE FreSPONadaTo) PREPERABY RESTORYO IN U.S.

7. HILATTONSHIP

•. DUSINESS ADDRESS (ViD..

22.24

S. HOME TELEPHONE NUMBER

eturn

PaNDICATE

AME OF FIRM OR EUPLOYLA, 1E APPLICAOLI

ise.

7. OUSINESS TELEPHONE CATENSION

14 2-13P0

Edi SEL

IN CASE OL

EMERCENCY, OTHER CLOSE RELATIVES (ST

I8 SUCH NOTIFICATION

1S NOT DESIRAALE BECAUSE OF HEALIN OR DINER REASONS.

HE HOST MANCHOR LA CUNN

CLEVERANO 5 CHAI

STATUS

nEts

11) ONE.

D

•I DOMED

SEPARATIO

DIVORCEO

ANNULLED

FURVIIN DATE, PLACE

AND REASON FOR ALL

TIONS. DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

SPOUSE:

If you hare

hussand divind durs Belos for all proreous

HavE

(Fire")

includina annul

farmo: nilo os

88 aerreado is consemplood, prorido inno does lor fianco.

diddlo)

(Maiden)

(2098)

Дініїві

OATE OF MARRIAGE

PLACE OF MARRIBEE ¡PiPY, SPOSA, COMPErY

3-10 - 95

CLENGLAND

Cil"

ABETESS OF SPOUSE DETORE MARRIAGE COU SPRARE. CIRY. SPARe. COUNTrY

Y. LIVING

W. 191 St

N. X.

• DATE OF DEATH

PEN YORK. CAUSE OF DEATH

CODED-

TURT

CURRENT ADDRESS (GiVE faRe EdUresS, if ARiFaBoU)

CUNN

DATE 28 AUG 1958

Part. Country

d NOCLICe

ÉKATERiNGSLAU

RusSil

IS'' DE DORY DUTSIDE U.S.

• DATE CE EXTRY

DA. PLACE OF ENTRY

Сії 192.

9. CATIIEOSHIP (COUNtEN

Ц.б. А.

18.

OCCUPATION

N.X.

AERE ACQUIREO (CrIP. SEATO.

Country)

20225, 193 1016154ND, , u

Jecedeod or

20. EMPLOYER'S CA BUSINESS ADORESS 180..

Street. CifT. Stal

2430 E. ST. N.W. WASN

ECTICE TIE CORTINUED TO PAGE

SECRET

10-97

1

---

## Page 62

SECRET

p.lia.6

I. 1

SECTICA ILL CONTINURO FOOM PAGE 3

DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE OF SPOUSE IMPON-

18e were desi 184

i'2. BRANCH DA SERVICE

FEB. 11911 - Gic 20,1998

ENTERED ON DUEY WITH CEA

128.20

195%

SECTION IV

RELATIVES BY BLOOD. MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION LIVING CBROAD OR WHO ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS

1. FULL NAME.

BELAT1098714

*87:1

ADDRE.S!

OR COUNTRY IN AMICH RELATIVE RESIDES

B. CITIELNSMIP (COUNSON)

A, ENLQUENCY OF CONTACI

.. FULL NAME (LOOT-FATes-Hialle)

ADUNESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH BLEATIVE RESIDES

CITOZINSHIP (COUNDrY)

O. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

ADORESS OR COUNTRY TO BITEN RELALIVE RESIDES

S. CIFIZENSHIP (COUrITY)

B. TREQUENCY OF CONTACT

I. DATE OT LAST CONTACT

8. RCLATIONSNIP

7. DAPE OF LAST CONTACT

RELATIONSHIp

FATE OF LAST CONTACT

RELATIONSHI

.

• AGE

AGE

J, AGE

ADDRESS OR GOUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

CITIRENSHIF (COUNtry)

B. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

SPECIAL REMARES, IF ANT, CONCEANING THESE HELATIVES

7O DATE OF LAST CONTACT

SECTION V

FIMANCIAL STATUS

1. ARE

YOU ENTIRELY OPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY?

IX YES

2. DO YOU HAVE ANT FIMANCIAL

On OFFICIAL

CORVECTION

MITM U.S.

CORPORATIONS AA BUSERESSES LAVEND SUASTANTAL STRONGN'INEROSTS;

ANSMERLO "VES"" GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS ON A SEPARATE SMEET AND ATTACH IN A SEALEO CAVALI

$, DO YOU RECEIVE

FROS TINE UMITED STATES

PENSION.

SE OUT SHOT PACE RANDO AVAS DISTICT OSLOVA COMER ANT MATER AOT RETIREST AÉT.

SOTT VOU NAVE ANSMERED "YES" TO QUESTION I AROVE, GIVE COUPLETE DETAILS.

S WITHOUT DEFERENCE YÓ YOUR SALARY.

STalE OTHER SOURCES

OF RECURRENT INCOME NOT INDICATES ON PRECEDING ITEMS

SECTION V CONTINUED TO PAGE 3

SECRET

---

## Page 63

MaMt OF

ANKIOSTA NOIX BANK DE WASHINGION

SECRET

¡when folled In)

SECTION

V CONTINUED FHOM PAGE Z

WASHiNGTON 20, D.C

7. MAVE YOU EULP HEEN IN. OR PETITIONIO POR. BAMARUPICY'

fres

8. 18 TOU HADE ANSPERPO -VIS" TO QUESTION 7 ABOVE, GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUOIS CONRI AND DATEIS)

SECTION VI

COUNTRY OF CURRENT CITIZENSHIP

CITE ZEN SHIP

D. CITIZINSHIP

ArOUIRLO DE • CHiCA

MAVE

YOU PARLA SILES IN CHANCE POUR

A. GIVI PARTICULARS

PRESENT

3. IF YOU SAVE APPLILO PON U.S. CITIZINSNIE, INDICATI PRESENT STATUS DE VOGE ANPISCATION (FiRNE DEPOTO, 98E.)

SECTION VII

THAN MIUM SCHOPE GRAU

EDUCATION

1, CHACA (X) MIGERST DEVEL OF

EDUCATION

01d:8'

1868.

BACHEL:D*S 06499?

H8CH00 006888

BIGP08

B16t88

8. COLLIGT

ON UNIVERSIEY

SUBJECT

DECREE

REC'D

DATE

16725.

COMPLETED

NAME AND LOCAPIDN OF COLLEGE OR UNIVIASITY •

J. TRADI, CONNERCIAL

STUDY OR SPECIALIIATION

GATES ATTENDEO

POTAi

NAME OF SCHOOL

S. MILITARY IRAINING (Full lino dusy in specialitod soboola such as Desnesca, lorelligence.

Communications.

DATES ATTENDEO

NAME OF SCHOOL

STUDY OR SPECIALIIATIGN

TOTAL

S. OTNER COULATIONAL TRAINING MOT INDICATÃO ABOVE

SECRET

---

## Page 64

SECRET

Filled ins

SECTION & CONTINUED FRUM PAGE B

WHICH YOU

BUTHOR ( the

arientille

rticles

sub-

INDICATE

TITLE.

пото/».

INDICATE ANY DEVICES MUCH VOU MAVE INVENTIO AND STATE DUETHER OR NOT THIS ARE PATINTED

D. LIB9 ANY PUDLIE SPEARING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS ÉXPIRIENCE

SOCIETIES

ON WHICH YOU ARE NOW ON

#ERE

FORMERLY A

10.

ANY PRÕCESSIONAL.

LIST

ACADEMIC

HONORARY

ACADEMiC HONORS

YOU MAVE

RICEIVEO.

SECTION XI

ORGANIZATION WORK EXPERIENCE - SINCE LAST COMPLETION OF A PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS QUESTIONNAIRE

INCLUSIVE DATES (PROMO

and To-)

GRADE 3.

OFFICE/DIVISION/HEÄNCH OF ASSIGAMENT

6.27-52

2-49 - 38

A. No.

OF EMPLOYEES UNDER YOUR DIRECT

3, OFFICIAL POSILION

SUPERVISION

CREPA

DESCRIPTION OS DUTIES

LEGGINGE PULING OF INTERIGENCE HATES I VARIEDE GRERICHL DUTICE

INCLUSIVE DATES (FeRA- And TOO)

7-3 - 58

NO. OF EMPLOYEES UNDER YOUR DIRECT

GS9| CELSIOL PROJECT

SUPERVISION

INTELIIEENCE CHERE

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

TRANSITiNATIME: RECORDS iNFORMATEN iN ACCORDANCE WiLL LNiL LEQUIRETICANS

INCLUSIVE DATES (PrOD.

OFFICe/DIVISION/ BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT

NO.

OF EMPLOYEES UNDER YOUR DIRECI

SUPERVISION

OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

INCLUSIVE DATES (FRUM- ONE TO-)

NO.

0F

EMPLOYEES UNDER YOUR DIRECT

SUPERVISION

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

PAADE S.

OFFICE/DIVISION/ BRANCH OF

ASSIGNMENT

S. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

INCLUSIVE DATES (PrOMa and To-Y

A. NO, OF EMPLOYEES UNDEA YOUR DIRECT

SUPERVISION

8. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

2. GRADE

OFTICE/DIVISION/ BRANCH OF ASSIGHMENT

OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

(U'so audipional

SECRET

---

## Page 65

14-00000

SECRET

•SECTIO XI!

CHILOREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS

CHILDREN (Includine areschierc

Ta.

MIS DEP

CAPER DI MEARS OF AGE. AND ARE

NOT SELF.

SUPPORTING.

PROHIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR

2

suppoRt.

ALL

CHILOREN

DEPENDINTS

BEN

No AME:

RELATIONSHIP

YEAR OF BIRTH

OR.

1 Yeans

3

ADOREB$

WASH. 0.2

BESCARA TRANSCRE

DENHOND TOROSCEF

AND TARDINGE

H4SOOND

21-12-95

20-3-99

2 - 11-1908 V

yES

JES

-JES

COMMENT

ANOIDR CONTINUATION CE PRECEDING ITEMS

DATE COMPLETED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

SECRET

---

## Page 66

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 67

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 68

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 69

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 70

soio in iit ith daign uith loe

eerinnati -oo

---

## Page 71

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 72

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 73

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 74

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 75

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 76

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 77

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 78

14-00000

. ri :

---

## Page 79

231727

---

## Page 80

14-00001

---

## Page 81

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECURITY APPROVAL

Date: 29 Miy 1957

Your Reference: C-8238 "A5

Case Nurber: 131751

TO: Chios, Records & Services Division

0:00a702 0f10

FROM: Chief, ferrity

Divisior

Persocnel

SUBJECT, TARASCES, Anna Adamovies

1. This is to advise you of security action in the subject case as Indientod

belon:

Securily sprroval is sranted the subject person for access to classirled

information.

Provisional clearance for Mull duty with CIA 13 granted under the provialona

ni Pargersph D of herulation 10-g wich provides for e temporary mppolnt

ment pending compiotion of mill securlty Invoatigation.

The Dizoter of Central Intolligence has granted a provisional clearance

with CiA under the provolong of parugraph H of Regulation

8.

3.

Unless :to subject person enters on dutg ilthin 60 days from the above

approval becomes invalid.

Subjeet is to ba polygraphod as part of DOD procedures.

W. M. Kiott

No Mo Knott

CONFIDENTAL

FER 1

1938. 38-101

---

## Page 82

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

Date:

19 larch 1957

TO:

FROM:

Chie?, ¡scoris ard services Division, OF

Fersonnel

Chief, Security Division, Os

SUNECT: Incidez, anda - 1131751

Roquest lio. G- 2238

l. Peference is made to your request for security clearance of the subject

person who is being considered for employmen't in the following position:

2. This 13 to advise you of the following securizy action:

E.. E Provisional security clearance 15 eranted lo permie subject's

employment on a temporary basis in the following area or in the following

capacity: Intorin Assignent Section

Ihis clearance Is granted upon the condition thee subject: I. not

save access to classifled material; 2.

not have access to secure areas:

3. noß be issued a badge

or credential; 4.

not represent himself as a

-CIA enployee.and.g..nos.be assigned to any unclassifled ductes other

than indicated above.

B.

_ Name-checks have been completed on this person.

Arrangements

should now be made by your offico for an intersler in this Division.

Upon

completion of this Intervier further consideration will be given to the re

quested Linited clearance for accoss to information classified no higher than

Secret.

If subject has not entered on duty under a previously granted pro

vistonal clearance the interview should be arranged

after entrance on duty.

c. I Subject is security approved for temporary appointment to a pos1-

elon reguiring access to Information classified no higher than Secret.

orpicials of the employing office should be advised of this secu

riey limitation

and should be instructed to supply future suporvisors with

adsice as to the limitation so as to insure

continued compliance.

Security action to effect full approval 13 continuing and your

office will recelve advice of full clearánce upon completion of this

Upon receipt of full security elearance, the present limitaclon

rescinded and supervisors should be advised accordingly.

3.

content

his KNUTT

CONFIDENTIAL

TOBe 10. 36-128

de8 1958

10980098186

---

