# 104-10192-10015

## Page 1

104-10192-10015

189": 12A-3 Usa Provious Editions

14- 300-10

CO 104 51-45/

N REP TO PILE NO

FROM: SINAVE

ACTION

INFO

#M/C

C5/00,

FILE,

0/0C1 2,

XI RID COPY

.DO4

CA 2.

--CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PILE MID RIY TO BRANCH O

101 VISIo 4-03

ABIG 1-03

ROUTIN

16

17

D18:800 O 310 -

PROVANCE COPY TUBED TO CS/DO A TETIR 2)

CA/O 4,

RI/AN, WH 8; WE 8,

CA/PEG, CA/PROP,

Cl/OPS.

Ci/Ic 2,

IW,

F.

FI/ONT .

ADOP.

D/ONE

INDEXED AUD CONTROI CORIES

HEYCHED

SE CR F5.1622262

Tô N ĐHN Đ5 T2 T5N

DIR INFC

LANT BARR

CITE VAVE TETY (INSHURST ACTING)

INTEL TYPIC

LEE 77.25

41

SUPDATA:: AMOT-256 AND ALFREDO GALLO GANTUZ IN AMOT RÉPORT DD-1672,

9 NOVEMEER 1965. INFORMATION RECEIVED. IN CONVERSATION AT HOME OF

ARMANDS GARCIA SIFREDO ON 3 NOVEMBER. SOURCE FOP. COMMENT: AMDT-2

iL EE-4455, 15 NOVEMBER 1965. P.ID: INDEX ERIXRE, REY, GARCIE-

lICROFILMED

Rechi?

'cop

DEC 28 1000

REFONT CLASS SACRET CONTROLLEO DISSEM

DOC. MICHO. SER

Eet cuba

261-106293

TOSSIELE ACCOMODATICH: EETWEEN FULGENCER -

EATISTA ZALDIVAR

1D THE CUEIN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECES PI

mis-801-.e64.1

40001002 1565

iN COMMENT:

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TO PORTICA OF, THIS CAULE HAS BEEN

MADE CUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING

RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

D19-6-954

19-300-18

16.NOU65

PRIORITY

•BELEASING IWO.

TDCS

TROUTINE.

BASED ON

DATE DISTRIBUTEDI

LIAISON

'RECLUDAD PRON ALIDHATH

DOWNORADINA AND

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy No

RETURN TO CIA

Beckground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

400

---

## Page 2

it= 12A J Use Previous foitions

INDRA LITES ONO

CLASSIFY TO PHE NO ...

* HIP TO FILE NO -

CLASSUFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FRE AID D

"IT 1O. BRANCH D

DESTROY O

AG 1.*3

ROUTIN-

ACTION.

INFO

EX RID COPY

VR,

FILE, ADOP, CA?, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS. ONE 2 A. AID.. FI/INT

PAGE 2 IN 95965

FADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (15 NOVEMBER 1965)

U:6-7725

SCURCE: A MEMSER OF A GROUP OF CLEAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE .

TECHNIQUES OF. INFORMATION COLLECTICH. THE GROUP MAS FROVIDED USEFUL

REFORTS SINCE 1961.

in coMin't

TOCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

1 PRIORITY

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

SECREI

REPRODUDON BY. OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE !:

LAISON

• ShE 678

PELTES

AUTOMATH

i3+08:

OHIBITED

Copy No

---

## Page 3

ta-screen

ArCa 1:

10-09. 3000

SECRET

Attar Ellied Joel

SECRET

COUNTRY

DATE Of

INO

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCS

DISTA

SUBJECT

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE.

AND

APPRAiSALI

REF

FIELD REPORT NO

N

95965

1.. ON 3 NUVIMEER 1S5j AN ADHÈRENT OF FULGENÇIO BATISTA ZALDIVAR,

PRESIDENT OF QUE, SAID THAT ¡ATISTA IS INTERESTED IN GAINING

FiLLI OF A CUBAIL EMIGRE ORGANIZATION THROUGH WHICH HE COULD INFLU-

ENGE A, LARGE NUMBER OF. CUBAN EMIGRES IN THE UNITED STATES.

HUGEVER, HE DOES NOT WINT THE ORGANIZATION TO BECOME KNOWN AS A

"BATISTIANO" ORGANIZATION.

¿. BATISTA'S: REPRESENTATIVES IN THE UNITED STATES HAVE BEEN

INSTRUOTED TO ATTEMPT:TO GAIN CONTROL OF THE REPRESENTACION CUENIVA

EN EL EXILIO (RECE. CUSAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE). SANTIAÇO

Tai, a cousic So a fine he Malond or eyelid a Vald Say hate main ete perion

prohioiied by law.

GAOUD.1

SECRET

бота 8190199 804

STATEJINA DIA ARMYJACSI MANY AIR IS SECDEE NSA NIC... ATO

USIA

Od ONE OCT ORR. 00

---

## Page 4

ron" 3002

• PRITE CUSTOLS ABOVE: TOP ULICK LIVE AND BELOS ROTTON SLICK LINE

J1 la i as

IN 0590÷

PACE S

SECRET

• E31H'6WECli 212101 03

TD'S

¿FREY PERMAS AN LOSUSO BARCIA SIFAROO, DIRECTOR Or PATEL, A

PRO-BATISTA NEWSFAPER, HAVE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH ERNESTOFFREYRE

ARUNAL LEADER CE SELER FOR THIS PURPOSE.

3. (SOURCE CARIENT. - FREYRE HAS FOR SOME TIME BEEN MAKING AN

EFFORT TO RALLY EMIGRE SUPPORT FOR RECE, AND SINCE MID-SUMMER 1965

HA'S BEEN ACTIVELY WORKING TO GAIN THE SUPPORT OF THE VARIOUS EMIGRE

PROFESSIONAL ORGIVIZATIONS AND TO REACH AN AGREEMENT WITH ALL

RIGHTIST GROUPS AND WITH FOLLOWERS OF BATISTA. REY AND GARCIA

HAVE BEEN FREYRE'S CONTACTS WITH THE PRO-BATISTA GROUP. FREYRE

HAS GIVEN MONEY TO GARCIA IN ORDER THAT THE NEWSPAPER PATRIA

WOUL. MAURA!ON IN ITS EDITORIALS FOR THE NEED TO SUPPORT

14:1

EUk. TOPRESENT ALL EMIGRES,)

FIELD THESEM, CINCSO; CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

EEl, iNDiO fALSO SENT MADRID. ):

END OF: MESSAGE

SECRET •

---

