# 104-10072-10088

## Page 1

104-10072-10088

DISPATCH

CLASSINCATION

SECRET/K

-SECRET

• PROTESING ACRON'

MARKED FOR MIDEKING

Chief,

SB Divaton

Chief rEUR Divisions

ND IDLING LOURED

OBEY CALFIED DESK

CAN RIDGE INDEKING

Chiet of Station,

REDTOP

ACK

KGB/SCD Connected Soviet Rimma Semenovna MITRUK nee SHIRAKOVA

FYI

REF :

16115, 15 August 1966

has now passed the following information on

Subject hos

as Headquarters ts avare, figured in the Warren

Report as the Soviet Intourist guide provided Lee Harvey

OSWALD on his arrival in Moscow in October 1959.

A Reference

transnitted.

nformation dated August 1966.

2

states that SHIRAKOVA arrived In the United

Kingdon On 2 September 1967 with a party of Soviet teachers

end left on 30 September 1967 on Her patronymic and correct /

age were discovered in spite of SHIRAKOVA telling the

source (unnamed) that she was bornia 1939.1

Istated

that SHIRAKOVA O birthdate was given on arrival here as 18

January 19378

According Ato

source who is friendly with

Subject,

SHIRAKOVA spent a considerable amount of, time. with

him while in the Uk. During this time

source took

SHIRAKOVA to the Chamber of Horras at Madame Tussauds':

Exhibition, where of course there is a waxwork of Lee OSWALD

According to

source, SHIRAKOVA instantly recognized

OSWALD and told

source that, she had known OSWALD:

Thus, clearing upany doubts in

mind about the

identification.

Attachment: 2H/W

inotos

Distribution:

26

- C/SB w/att.

C/EUR w/o/att.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

68

ROSS REFERENCE TO

ES COPY

49414

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/R

901 - 803914

DẠIE

SECRET

19 June 1968

MOS FILE BURBER

7500

MICROFIGME

EPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY

AFTER

USE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OR

DISPATCHE

SECRETE LA

9AT4

tates that

it source do emphat ies thatat

no time has

any sort of ante

Irence approach or direct

questionine taken Place, el ther by SHIRAKOVA Of any other

Russian:

adds, that

does 100k, however if the

SCD are bullding up quite a

dossier on the man.

tation for WOFIRM Headquarters,

tion for a

also provided a second, photograph:

obtained from the source of SHIRAKOVA standing with a young

male Intourist guide Interpreter

called "Valentine!.

Valentine

was apparently being trained by SHIRAROVA during source is. 1960

visiti to the Sovlet Union thuso,

dol 1s 1960),

Kand Valentine

Joined the coach at the Sovlet-Polish border (seevsub-para. ?

of para, 2. 0f Reference)

Valentine claimed to

source

that it was hierst exper

ence asce

English was quite good,

*arent he appeared to de rather nervous.

Adrian O. BAGHURST

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY AFTER USE

---

