# 104-10051-10182

## Page 1

1104-0051-10182

• UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

SR/CI/Research

5 C 39, x-7735

TO:

(Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

3:

4.

5.

6

%.

8.

9.

10.

18.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

C/SR/CI/ Research

SR/O/US/al

DC/SR/CI

C/SR

C/CI

C/CI/SIG

C/CI/R&A

"ERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONn ENTIAL

XX SECRET

EXTENSION

• DATE

RECEIVED

20

March

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

To her

NO.

CSCI - 3/780,612

DATE

COMMENTS (Number esch comment to show from whom

Is whom.

Draw @ line ecross column after each comment.)

HAND CARRY

CALL CORA, x-7735

90/3

20/3

MICROFIL"

NOV 2 7 1967

DOC. MICRO. 2.

HEM

20/3

Document Number

614-261

for FOIA Review on

JUN 1976

CI/ LI

610 "SE PENOUS

XX SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHET

.: *1957

50cte13227

C501-3180612

ME ONANDUL FOS

DIreLLer

Fedaral Bureas it Inventigation

Б0SJ6CT

SUBJ;

PHOTO Of LEE H. OSWRID

TAKEN BY MONICA. KRAMER.

AMER. TOURIST. IN MINSK. USSR. CA- AUG, 1SS/

I In tho care of oss vestart of lllas pestling to areas si

the IsSE ia which toe Harry OSVALD allegally rended, a phaloa

ol an individeal closely resembling OSHALD oas mestored.

CiT: USA.

3. Our files lodicato 1has falo photograzo (Aunchront A) cema

from a colet Lanarene, mia la List, 05.

1e oe OP 2b00 11 AUTuME FARE

ARAMIR, shose sidress

*t Ese Boe 106F, Q, Box 983, Asluena, Calloria. USA.

3. The photograph appears to have born ten la Isolisalmay

Floshchad® (Conteal Square), which le located la tho coater of Mias%.

Tbe sliding is the hackground has born identlled as Tho Falace of

Culture, Sin people are depicted la to photagraph.

The sciviasal

second from the righi, appearo to be Lie Harrey CabAla, l should ba

noted shal the nhirt thia ladividani le venring appears to be idealical te

the abir 0Su1LD is souring is ter ybotographs froa. las group a 47

poctographo for the cilecto el 05 iNLy voico wre forsanted en this

Agency do your emmelcales al 3 warch 1964, te asaber (3) 105-33555,

subject: "unseat of Fresiden: JobaT. KINNEDY. Copies of theas

two photograps o 03 11LE 12e lorrarded it this report as Alachnent E.

¿. Force al tho photograph iduntified one ol the females la too pictora,

possibly sas one es in leth, no bundlam (440), as latariot guide.

was accospaciod by another Americas, Lios Aila NALAN, 595 ALrde:

Jabad, Solvants

iN TRINIT USER CA i AUGUST 1961.

P30 a::

614-261

Bocument Number

tor: FOlA RaViS: 1 0.1

JUN 1976

CS COPY

SEUNGi

RESTRICTED TO CI/R+A

20-MAR 1964

5501-289248

03228

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

Esad, Solvag, Califorala, no la posnibly to lesale ancond from

tno len ln tao photograpi. None of the alhor individuals can 3e

farther conched

5, MTS, YANNER and MISS NAMAN, beta el whom are Valled

Santos citimal, sire contacied by tain Agenty en a one time lanaid,

Tallosing thods vetara free thair tons of the USta, The report el

thio contaci, 00-9-3, 212, 767, daded 11 barcà 1922, susteeti

Realities/ The Farade/Interrogaiton in liars Following the Giving

Aoay ol a US Nons Magistno, in lorsardod as Attacharan 6-

6. MIS. BRAMEE, sho la decribed as "an aldor congraton*

àn tha sourco deseripios el Atachmes E, furniabed this Agency alla

160 colos transparencies taxon daring to sip. leachaent A is only

one si too are sansaratios el shich asgatre coples vero made and

Inted by this Agency, All of the lêd sriginal color tradesarencies

ner retsrand to laTe. KRAMER.

7. MISD NAMAN, relariod to as *a callogo gradata * is loa

Poure deocrigtos el AttEment C, PIOned this Agency nit ene

red a eum ecles monto lin then duriag the irip. The lis not

vowed by thin Agoney and nos beequestly retarned to biise NAhida.

#, Thla Asancy bas had no lotta contace with either Mia.

KAAMSE O MIsa NAMiAN eabooguent te lar contact reflected in the

report fernarded to slashneat t

7. This sifies would be intereated la asy partinect information

Which Laterior of liNA. KRAMER ANd lilOs NAMAN by your aflee

wigasponsiblyprovido.along the dollontag lass:

A. A more posiavo identificaton of tao individual lo

The ect dale nod entrate of lae lint of day whea lee

masteraph (Attachment A) nos ales.

/c.. Any laformada

IS COPY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEGMET

Any Intoranton which would aid in identitying other

ladvidal in the photograph fAtechnem At-

In The mos, address, and any other identifying dals

on Bho traveling companios sho accompanied Mrs. RAAMER

Bad Is NAMAN from Hereor to Karan» vin Minar

10, Dinemiaton al Altachaeat A and portinent ilentliyiag

Intornkion to to Freddent's Goerison on to Asstasteadion ol

Frondon Kenedy lo bolay delayed panting receipt al yoo, Durea'e

andingo to ta water

FOR TRI DEFUTY DIRECTOR FOA FLANS:

2. Ears, Ir.

JAKES ANGLETON

ESCI - 3/730, 617

3 Enclocares as cited above 1026700. 1, 3% 5

Distribution:

Jali * 1- 100re3306

1-0/01

1 - C/CL/SIG

1 - C/CH/R&A

C/SR

1 a C/52/01

2 - 0/58/C1/A (bild cy & enaback cy)

1 • 5E/0/05/21

41-201-269,348

19 swah 1966

15311

nethe sant

101-257245

---

