# 104-10215-10019

## Page 1

104-10215-10019

ід .:

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Cablection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

301-24/813

но. ід

CLASSIFISD MESSAGE

4öсs.

EITY TO PILE

Encher too

LC

•RID

RICHATURE

TO :

•DIRECTOR

FROM :" MEXICO CITY

ACTION: SR 6

INFO

CI, C1/OPs,i C1/0A, FI, VIH 7, S/C 2

ROUTING

3

SECRET

1222.3eZ

HN58551

•0.

DIR CITE MEXI 4981

REDWOCD LCIMPROVE ANIMROD

13 JUN 1963

REF: DIP 45798%

T. ODENVY INITIATED NEST WITH MEXI GAO IT' JUNE, WANTED

KNOW IF KUBARK ADVISED STATION RE ODENVY DA. MOSTLY WANTED GET

ASSURANCE THAT MEXI WOULD NOT JECPARDIZE ODENVY DA IN BAKULIN OP.

GIVEN EVERY ASSURANCE.

2• CONTRARY REF, LOCAL ODENVY SAID HAD NO HOS PERMISSION

R

DISCUSS THEIR DA OP WITH STATION, HOWEVER, LATER DID SÁY THAT

THEY PICKED UP AGENT IN BORDER AREA, SENT HIM MEXI WHERE LIVED

SAME APT BLDG WITH SOV, WAS CULTIVATED AND EVENTUALLY RECRUITED:

AGENT IS A SALES REP. FOR AMERICAN AIRLINES, BASED HERE BUT

TRAVELS OKLAHOMA, KANSAS. FROM WHAT ODENVY SAID, APPEARS CASE

FAIRLY UNPRODUCTIVEN PARTICULARLY NOW WITH SAKULIN HANDLING.

3- ODENVY PROMISED GIVE STATION THE VAMES OF BARS WHICH®

BAKULIN FREQUENTS WITH AGENT. MAY DEVELOP INTO AVENUE BY-

VRICH MEXI CAN GET CLOSE BAKUL IM.

Bill

20 1UN

3298

Влапк:

7972 252697

C/S COSMENT: *ODENVY REVEALED THEIR SCURCE IS CARLOS VEJAR SILVA:

201-364813

GROUP

EXCLUDING FRON AUTOMATICY DONN

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

•Copy No.

---

