# 104-10175-10144

## Page 1

104-10175-10144

DISPATCH

Chief, HiM Division

SECRET

MA PIE FOR SCOrSE

DO RESIS PEOUTED

DI DALEE C

CAS SOC NOCINA

Chief of Station. Mexico City

A Agent Evaluation - LIHUFF/I of LItilFF Project

ACTIN NEGUANED - KET URENCE

Attached

are copies of

an Agent Evaluation written

by willard C. CURTIS on LIHUFF/l of the LIHUFF Project.

2. This is forwarded for Headquarters information and

records.

Allard unt

lard C. CURT

ittachment

gent Evaluation (3 cys)

Distributio wate

CRESS REFERENCE TA

Test: 15109:7

3 COPY

AN)

HMMA - 32378

CLASENCATEN

BECRET

201-807973

DATE

29 August 1967

HOS FILE MANNER

201530999323

---

## Page 2

14-00009

SECRET

AGENT EVALUATION

24 August 1967

1. Name (P): LIHUFF/1

2. Project : LIHUFF

3. Overt Job Title: Manager of Large Association.

4 Covert Job Title: Contract Agent.

Job Description:

LIHUFF/l is a contract agent who is

in touch with and reports on

a right-wing student

organization and its activities. He also reports

on a Mexican organization which sponsors the

publication of a right wing economics (monthly!

journal: he has contact with a sub-agent (LICHSNT/T)

s'= i= emalayed by both the Ministry

of Education

and the Mexican jocial securia,

1:a93.

addition, he is able by virtue of Mis overe

employment

other checksEe ges Dun and Bradstreet credit and

business

firms.• •Americar

Mexican and others.

He is in contact with other

rightwing organizations

and individuals ail has

13od cartacts with Catholice Church authorities

in Mexico.

6. Evaluation:

a.

Performance of Above Duties without Prejudice to

Either One.

He works

only part-

time for NCFACT; his overt employment gives him

excellent cover

for the work he does for MOFACT.

b. Attitude towards WOFACT, Cover Organization and

Present Assignment.

LIHUFF/I is a great admirer of WOFACT. He Is

anxlous to do any assignment given him: he is

grateful for the extra income (although small)'

which the WOFACT job gives him.

He is very

•leased with his present

assignment, loves working

For his cover organization.

€. Securlty and Discretion.

LIHUFF/I has had years of work of the NOFACT

He did the same type of work during world

War Il in China: has been

associated with WOFACT

funder unofficial cover and in contract status)

:16-710.

Tand in Mexico.

conscious and discreet aboue his asses ate tich

WOFACT and about his work with this organization.

SECRET

17f to

HABA 3287K

E3 COPY

123

201-80998

ETRY

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

SECRET

- 2-

do Handling.

LIHUFF/I has presented no problems to the Station.

He accepts quidance and instructlons. is anxious to

do whatever is asked of him.

He takes about one

hour weekly to handle.

There have been no excessive

administrative demands generated by this agent.

€.

Report Writing.

LIHUFF/ generally submits reports which he has

acquired from either LIHUFFI2 or LICHANT: or,

ne writes brief memoranda on data he believes of

Interest.

le rakes copies of the Dun & Bradstreet

reports or similar ones he delivers to the station.

His reporting is good, thorough, but brief and to

the point.

f. Personal Attributes.

LIHUFF/ speaks fluent Spanish having been born

by, Mexies.

Mexican Businessmen; and he gets alo his WOFACT

His family slays no role in

activities.

Performance in His Specific Job.

LIHUFF /1 performs well in his specific job.

gives the Station

no problems.

either administra

tively or otherwise.

His performance could be

rated

as Strong.

ho Noteworthy Weaknesses.

This agent has no noteworthy weaknesses.

In view

of his experience and maturity, he is able to

perform very

nell without too much time spent by

his case officer on specific guidance.

Career Developmental Possibilities.

This agent could adjust well in any Spanish.

speaking country.

ja Comments Not Covered by Above Headings. None.

Signature of Rating Officer

Hiseand Curtis

Signature of Reviewing Officer

Liceand Curtis

SECRET

(IRT

---

