# 104-10303-10001

## Page 1

104-10303-10001

Mr Waller

Shepanel

John

I chocked will

Walt Eller (35pt)

and the says that

IG has acher an

this: (Charlie 7nd is

the OTR man I mentioned.)

I'll hold this memo

in case there is

Jour

i clut all it ne

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Review Staff::

75/2723

Date

28 August 1975

TO

• :

CIA Task Force

FROM

: The Review Staff,

SUBJECT : SSC/HSC Request

RECEIVED: Date

Walter Elderv

Time

Shep

Mike Madigan, SSC staff, reports that Mr. Helms

and Mr. Halpern have testified that in response to a

request by Attorney-General Robert Kennedy, the Agency

assigned an officer to establish contacts with the under-

world to look for possible assets for use against Castro.

Sam Halpern says the officer was Charles Ford who

used the name, Rocky Siscalini.

Madigan wants any information we have on this and

would like to interview the Agency officer.

Comments:

Track down

Action

C57703

Éncent fian general

Heation schedule el ED.

11052

C14..dl2

•÷ (!:, 123. (3)

SC/DCI

A/DDA

-A/DDI

A/ DDO

A/DDS&T

OGC

OLC

IG

SA MEC

Info

X

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

INTERVIEW FORM

FORD, Charles

NAME:

ALIAS

OTR

OFFICE

OFFICE APPROVAL

Signature

DATE OF INTERVIEW 18 Sept 75

•LOCATION OF INTERVIEW. Carrol Arms

TRANSPORTATION REQUIRED:

YES

FROM HEADQUARTERS

(time)

OTHER

INTERVIEWED BY:

TELEPHONE

Date

TIMEl 120-1315

NO

Postal, Gordon Rhea, Rhett Dawson,

Fred Baron, Robert Kelly.

SUBJECT:

Cuban Operations - Task Force

W

Assássination of Castro - Mafia connections.

COMMENTS:

Under oath. This was second meeting.

Attached.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Interview by Senate Committee Investigators

•Director of Training

3245

DDTR

DTR

Chief, Division D

7B-44 Hqs.

Assistant to the Director

6D-15 Hqs.

19 September 1975

Shep

margi

12o

/lan

3 17 PM '75

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAI.

• 10 Sopteaber 1975

HE DRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Interview by Senate Cormittee Investigators

On Thursday, 18 September 1975, I was interviewed for the second

time by investigators from the Senate Camittee.

The interview lasted from

approxinately 11:20 a.m. until 1:15 p.u. My testinony was recorued and will

be transcribed. When the transcription is ready I will be required to rcad

It and swear to the truchfulness of the stateuents I made. Under ordinary

circunstances, a Senator would have been present to swear be in at this in-

terview. however, because of the televised public hearings, no senators were

available. An unidentified woman operated the equipment which consisted of a

Sony casette recorder and dictanhone casette recorder.

The prinary questioning

was by Mr. Postal and fir. Gordon Rhea, the same investigators with whom I spoke

on the earlier occassion. At one point or another during the prossedings three

other nen joined us for various periods of tine.

Mr. Rhott Dawson appeared

shortly after the interview began and renained for about an hour. Mir. Fred

Behren (I can't vouch for the spolling) arrived after about half an hour and

remained for ayproximtely twenty minutes, having received a phone cald which

took him avay. Mr. Bob Kelly arrived shortly after Mr. Behren and stayed for

about 10 minutes longer than Mr. Behren.

The interview was conducted in a room

in the Carroll Arus a forer hotel across the street frow the Senate Office

Building®

The neeting began with a reminder that I could have an attorney present

and that I could refuse to answer any question which might tend to incriminate

I was asked to describe in general terms my work with CIA. I told thea

that I joined in 1949; that I was and an now a nember of the Office of Training;

that in 1960 or thereabouts I had a short tour of duty with the Economic Action

Grouy in the DDP, and that I went directly fron that assignent to M1/4 in …..

Septender of 196l.

I was asked to recall ny major activities while with the Cuban operation

and I did so. I reported that my first assigment was the handling of a Cuban

agent, one wo were using to builu a nucleus of an organization for eventual

oporations into cuba 1 identified this man as dIre

JOr. Rhea, having

hoard my description of this activity at our earlier session, did not pursue

this matter any further).

Inc

---

## Page 6

13-00000

• CONFIDENTIAI

4. The investigators were interested in when I was assigned the code

nane Fiscalini; the circuistances under which the name was assigned, and who

had assigned it. I tollthem I had seon a Xerox copy of the menorandun (I

saw this during a necting with lill Sturbits last Friday in Bill's office)

which requested that identification in the name of Fiscalini be assigned to me.

I explained the circunstances, which Mr. Postal and Mr. Rhea had heard at our

earlier meeting, and said that I thought the date was the end of larch, 1962.

The ciramstances involved a contact by a New York lawyer, thru the Department

• of Justice, concerning a client who had access to Cuba and wanted to visit

Castro to put in a special plea on behalf of the Bay of Pigs prisonors.

identifiol the individual concerned (I still can't renenber his name) as the

manager of the Toresa Hotel in New York. I did not identify the lavyor and

was not asked for his nane.

I identified a nan I met at a second mecting in

Nes York as "Bubbles" Abdallah. I explained that the latter individual pro-

posed to accompany the manager of the Teresa to Cuba, the manager being an

elderly gentlenan with sone difficulty in walking... I explained to the investi-

gators that I had no further contacts with these poople after I discovered that

Abdallah was wanted, or under indictment - I forget which - by Texas authorities

for smuggling drugs fron Nexico. Mr. Robert Kolly was clearly intorested in

pursuing the matter of who assigned my "Code Name." I indicated that the docu-

mentation that I received came fron the Office of Security but that I did not

know whether that Office selected the nane or not.

5. He went over again the story of my contact with a Canadian named "Joe"

(I know this man's last name but have not been asked for it and have not volun-

teered it). I described one meeting and a telephone call involving Joe. In the

moting he clained that he could travel back and forth from Canada to Cuba; revealed

to me that he was interested in starting a snuggling activity involving goods

on the proscribed list; that he wanted United States citizenship and a great

deal of money in exchange for allowing us to send raterials or tamper with some

of the shimments if we could get the proscribed goods to Canada.

the investigators that my interest lay in the fact that Joe clained he could

speak with Che Guevara and that I had attempted to get Joe to serve as a neans

of commication between us and Che, which Joe refused to do. As for the tele-

phone call, I told then that when Joe returned from his trip to Cuba he called

to say that big things were going on in Cuba and we should meet right away.

Being aware that at that point we in the Agency were deep into what would later

be called the Cuban Missile Crisis, I told Joe I could not see him and that we

probably already knew what he had to tell me. That was the last I heard of Joe.

he spent a great deal of tine going over ny meetings with the ittorney

General and his interest in a small group of Cubans who clained to have supporters

in Cuba ready to create an uprising in Santiago Province. Tuis is the case de-

scribed in paragraph 3 of sy earlier nerorandum. The investigators were quite

interestad in the identity of the man won I saw at the request of the attorncy

General. I went over this again in as such detail ns I could renember but with-

out boing able to recall who this man was. I was askad if I could describe the

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 7

13-00000

•CONFIDENTIAL

man and I sald that I recalled him as & fairly tall man of average build with

black hair, black eyebrows and glasses. Of considerable interest is the fact

that perhaps 15 to 20 minutes later I was shown an 3 X 10 glossy photogriph of

several people walking in front of what appearod to le a public building and

I said I could rot. (The picture was of a man probably in his mid-sixties with

flowing white hair - somewat on the order of Senator Keating - a large dowr.-

curving nose, whito, straight eye brows behind dark glasses, a somewhat lined,

puffy facc, and a slightly receding forchead accentuated by the fact that his

hair was combed straight fron front to back. The nan was wearing a dark blue

or black suit, ard one man appeared to be accompanying him to his lott and

slightly. ahead, and another man slightly to his right and rear.

without hav

ing any reference points by which to judgo, my best guess would be that the

subject was about 5'10" tall.

lie appeared to be rather heavy, perhaps in the

range of 220 pounds.

There scened to be a caption of some sort at the bottom

of the picture but this was hidden from ny vicw.) Hi. Postal asked whether

the main figure in the photograph could have been the man, the Attorney General

directed me to sec. I replied that, even allowing for the difference in years,

the man in the photograph in no waj-rescabled the nan I saw on behalf of the

Attorney General.

%. Nessrs. Postal and Rhea again brought up. the subject of assassination

and asked whether I had engaged in of had heard mention of, in Task Force W

or SAs, discussions on the subject of assassination either in general or

specifically with respect to Castro. I told the investigators that the subject

came up repeatedly when we were speaking with Cubans, many of whom, having been

I said

that I had never heard of or engaged in conversations with Agency officers about

any plan the direct and only aspect of which was the assassination of Fidel

Castro. I pointed out that on a number of occasions I dealt with Cwbans who

wanted to kill Castro, but that my job was simply to attempt to extract fron

these contacts the names of people in Cuba who might be of potential use to us

in intelligence operations.

"I said that I had never engagal in plotting with

Cubans reganting assassination but that I had many conversations with Cubans

regarding their desiro to conduct paranilitary ac tivities wich, as a by-product,

night well result in Castro's denth.. I pointed out emphatically that the Agency':

policy prohibits political assassinstion.

I was asked if I knew

and Nestor Sanchez. I told then

that I knew then both and that vestor ard I shared an office for a short period

near tho end of my attachnent with SAS. I was asked if "ALAS!"' meant anything

to me and I replied in the nogative.

This was followed by whether Bill and 3

Nestor had discussed with me or mentioned an operation of theirs involving a

high level officer of the Cuban goverment, a nilitary nan who made frequent

trips out of Cuba.

Again I could only roply in the negative. I aided the

Juxtaposition of Bill/and Nestor in the context of a single oporation surprised

CONFIDENTIAl.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

ne inasmuch as Izhelioved Nestor to have been involved only in psychological

operations andl

working at collecting foreign intelligence.

I was then

asked if the word "NOTS" meant anything to me and I said it did but that all

•I could say was that it had to do with counterintelligence activities. Mr.

Rica asked me wiether I could say that tho "A-DIS" activity was concerned withi

contncting Cuban cxiles in the Muni area and l Indicatod that this was my

understanding. The subject was not pursued further.

9. I was asked about my visit to New Orleans (which I had mentioned during

the previous session) and I explained that these two trips were for the purpose

of attcapting to find ways of establishing channels of cormmication between the

exiled Cubans in Nicw Orleans and their friends in Cuba. I indicated that I had

been able to come up with a very fine prospect, a Cuban, and that I had turnod.

him over to ono of our FI Case Officors. I also said that I had several dis-

cussiorswith an Anerican whom I doclined to identify under the general ground

rule relating to sources of infornation. lessrs. Postal and Rhea asked if I

would respond atfirnatively if they were to suggest sono initials which night

correspond to the name of my American contact. I agreei to do this but the

initials which they nentioned meant nothing.

(Unfortunately, I cannot recall

then!)

I volunteered the initials of my contact, "Fy"

, and this produced a blank

expression on the part of both investigators and a shrug of Mr. Phea's shoulders.

The final question I was asked was whether I had any knowledge of the 'Ponchar-

train Operation'. I told them that I knew where lake Ponchartrain was, and

thnt's as far as it went.

10.

He spent a little tine on the subject of General Landsdale.

mitted I had attended one meeting in Gencral Landsdale's office in the Pentagon.

I was asked whether anyone else was there and said that I could recall only one

name, cornelius koosevelt; but that there were two othor people at the meeting.

In response to a series of questions about what was discussed at that meeting,

I said that General Landsuale was interested in various paramilitary possibilities

and that ny role vas linitod to giving a quick assessment of whether ve had the

agent asscts to assist in carrying out the various possible operations that

General Landsdalo suggested.

11. I was asked whether the term "Mongoose" meant anything to me and I

indicatal that it was a general tern used to refer to a composite of planned

oporational activities.

I said that I had no knowledye of any specific activity

being planned under this nane and further explained that it was possible that

some of my Cuban contacts night have been taken over by other Case Officers for

usc under "Mongoose" but that I had no direct linowleilge of such having been done.

12. Mt. Robert Kelly exprossed considerable interest in the organization of

Task Force N.

At one point he asked how many echclons there were betwcen me and

it. Heles. I told them that I reported to Bill Harvey; that my title was Special

Assistant; that MI. Harvey reported to NI. lielrs; that I frequently received

CONFIDENTIAL -

---

## Page 9

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL:

assignment and reported to San lialporn; and that occasionally I undertook

tasis for Fruce Cheever, Harvey's dejuty, although these tasks were concernal

with the workings of lask Force l and did not involve contact with the Cubans.

I was asked if there were any Special Assistant other than me in Task Force W

Hand I replicd that if. Zogby, C/ile prior to Nir. Harvey's arrival on the scene,

had been retained as a menber of Task Force W.in an SA status. I said that

there may well lave been others bocause people would show up fron time to tine for

short tours of duty for several conths or so and then depart to carry on

their work elsewhere, but that I could not recall anyone by name at the present

time.

13. I was asked whether I used the name Fiscalini in circunstances other

than those described. I said that I frequently carricd identification in

that nave and usal it on several occasions. I describod one occasion which was

an amusing one time contact with no bearing on any iten of interest to the commit-

The investigator asked whether I had ever contacted Cubans in Miani and I

replied in the negative.

14. I was asked if I had ever made contacts with people in New York City

other than those described. I said that indeed I had but that in one case, al-.

though the nan in question lived in view York, the meeting took place in Newark,

New Jersey.

In response to a question I said that the lead was provided by the

FBI. I declined to identify the man involved on the grounds of the sensitivity

of his position at that tine and the fact that I do not know at present where he

is or what he is doing. (This was the beginning of the unsuccessful ECHO Opcra-

tion which should be recorded sorewhere in the Task Force W or Miami Station

files.)

15. I was asked wether I had any knowledge of a neeting of the Attorney

General and Cuban exile leaders in the sumer of 1962. I said that such a

meeting would not lave been unusual, in my opinion, but that I had no knowledge.

or. such a nesting. I pointed out that it was comon practice among many cuban

leaders to try to acquire the support, or at least the appearance of sumport, of

U.S. agencios and prominent U.S. political figures. I further stated that

numerous attempts wero nade to get the U.S. to support a Cuban government-in-

• oxile and that I had had one necting in Washington with a Cuban leader who was

constantly atomoting to get us to support him as head of such an arrangement.

I identified this san as Mario Garcia-kohly and adlel that he was sentenced to

prison some ycars later for counterteiting Cuban pesos.

viously rang a bell with Mr. Postal as he repeated it aloud in a surprised tore

of voice. However, it.

Postal did not pursue the matter.

16. Some of the other topics which were surfaced in cornection with the

above major itons: I was asked whother I Incw the folloving people or recognized

the nanes.. fiy responses arc sumarized in the parentheses and I can't vouch for

all tho spellings):

CONFIDENTIAL,

---

## Page 10

13-00000

CONFIDENTIA!

(1) Carlos Teppedino (never heard of him)

Jose Orta (never heard of him)

(3)

Sam Giarcana (read about him in newspaper; never met him)

(4)

Roselli (read about him in the newspaper; never met him)

(5)

Trafficante (read about him in newspaper; never met him)

(6)

Manuel Artime (a prominent member of Cuban brigade; never met him)

(7)

Big Jim O'Connell (heard about him in the newspaper; never met him)

I was asked whether "No Name Key"meant anything to me and

I gave a negative response.

I was asked if I had visited Chicago in the course of my work

and I told them I had not.

17.

This is probably the appropriate point to underline my conviction that the

main, if not the only, point of concern to the investigators is whether I was

directed to sally forth and initiate contact with members of the underworld in

the U.S. and who directed me to do so.

Their interest is even more pointedly

focussed on whether I had anything to do with the Rosselli, Giancana, et al,

"operations". Once again, I explained that my job was broader thancthis by a

long shot, and that I was never directed to take the initiative in establishing

contacts with the underworld. I said that several, probably no more than five

or six, of the people with whom I dealt were somewhat "shady" characters, in

some cases with recorded run-ins with law enforcement agencies.

Charles D. Ford

Chief, Training Services Staff, OTR

CONFIDENTIAL

---

