# 104-10226-10020

## Page 1

104-10226-10020

INFORMATION: RERORT.

CENTRAL INIELLIGENCE AGENCY

MINFORLATION REPORI

se dificete

to@megases@eg.o entormed.com allegine lhe Autonal Dolenio of sha Unido destes distin the espara ny et the febrennge lores, Purte

9. US6. Saio Dia ond 994, one trunamission or eprelation of whird, in anj manner lo an ungurande person le probleed by lom

C-O-I-FI D-E-I-I-I-AL

42/4/PH

COUNTRY

Cuba

PERDERNO

SUBJECT

Atterst to Unify Anti-Caotro

Oreanizationo

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES.

09. 1: 3,275,508

13 January 1961

One

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

12 Dec 60 and earllor

PLACE &

PATE AÇQ. Cuba/12 Dee GO.

SOURCE:

IHIS IS UNEVALUATED INFODMATION

Cuban national in cxilo preoently reaiding in the US.

•Souice was the oner of a sugar mill in Cuba and well known as an

anatour sportsman in Cuba.

le lo anti-Communiot and against the

present regine in Cuba.

He has been active in an anti-Comunist

orcanization in Cuba and had taken part in sabotage activities until

Als dejarture.

1.. I belone to an organization known as Rescate Democrático, which 1a

the Fio orconization in Cuba.

The FRD 1o the strongest and test

cuprorted organization inaide of Cuba although there are mary people

that feel that they are not doing an nuch as could be done to bring

about the donfall of Castro. Alco there are many people in Cuba

who feel that the FRD is not taling enough direct action and 19

ücvotiny too much time to political activitles. Becausc of the

FRD's cayhasis on the political interest, many differcht grouns had

been forici each downgrading the cfforts of the FR.D. liowever, 1t

was realized that without unity nothing could be accomnlished, there-

fore a neeting of all opposition groups was held in llavans in carly

December and a complete unity was agrced upon by the represented

groups.

These groups Included the FRD, IRR, HIP and other nalor

eroupa opposing the Castro regime.

2.

An individual known to me only by his war nage as "Rodolfo" arrived

In the US on 27 December. with a letter of unity signed by all lesders

of the various opposition:parties in Cuba which Is to be presented to

the FRD and other opposition groups in the us so that they na Join

In o slailar eroup.

We all realized that without this unity and

coordinated action, Castro's donfall could not be acconalisted.

"Rodolfo" vas to meet with nembers of the FRD in the US an the night

of 29 December 1960 to present his document asking their cooperation

and assistance la carrying out a joint operation against Castro.

The leader of my group, which vas responsible for carrying out sabotage

action.in the lavans ares was an individual known by a war nase of

The bead of the

Rescate ber tico (pela an the var e o e en

as "Illar1o." le in a dedicated anti-Comunist who 1s still in Cuba

working tard and taiing many chances that could very vell result in

his capture and assaseination.

-end-

C-0-H-F-I-D-E-H-T-I-A•L

NaNT

d:8

но,

cistrinly

not!

---

