# 104-10163-10093

## Page 1

104-10163-10093

FROM.

ACTION

INFO

• 22

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECR

ET

UNN'AVE

1Wo

(COPY ISSUED TO WH/SA, IW

51DO iT 1685 16 TES OJ)

DCI, D/DC1, DDP, ADDP, SOD 4, DO/M, /

Cl, ClOPs, CI/IC 2, CI/PS, FI, FHD, FI/INT 6, RI/AN, kH/SA

WHt 3, iR, FILE, CS/RF.

{201)

ROUTING

15

S=CR. C. T 1619262

16-7

PRIORITY DIE INER PRÍCRITY LANT F

FEB 16 2025Z 65 IN 81818

SARR CITE WAVE 8326

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA:

AMCLATTER-I

FROV FRANK FIROINE. RIDE INDEX.

FILED 101926Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBUS PLANNED AIR STRIKE ACAINST HASAILA BY THE MIRR CN 16 FEBRUARY

1965

DO1: 16 FEBRIJARY 1055

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FEBRUARY 1965)

UFG 67085

SOURCES A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT CF HASINA FOR

SEVERAL YEARS. THE SCURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOCHIZE HIM AS A

IN COMMENT

CSDO: PLS PASS TO SIG CENTER

Leon

FLECTRICAL TRANSMISSION.

Se: 74:33

ADVISED SIDO OF TDCS

NO AT 1730 LOCAL.

10125A

112

KH/REG

OURLES M. BOUNDS

TOES 03-315/00550-65

TROUTINE

X PRIORITY

BASED ONI

UFG 6710

DATE DISTRIBUTED

NO PROJECT

16 FEBRUARY 1965

CAMCLATTER/1)

22282

LAISON,

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIDITED

Copy No.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onl

Do Nol Reproduce

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

104208

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

SECRET

MC. 5-04

_ ROUTING

5

6

FROM:

ACTION

INFO.

IN 81818

PAGE 2

CHANNEL TO US INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATICI WAS OSTAINED FROM

FRANK FIORINI.

!

"''"

iN COMMENTI

RELEASING 1 WO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED.

TDCS

J ROUTINE

BASED ON.

LIAISONS

PRIORITY

SECRET

= 00+0010-071000

RIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OIFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTOMATI

MB9H:X:7:3

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

M50 08-88

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIO ENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF 16 FEBRUARY 1965

INFO.

- SUBJECT -

PLANNED AIR STRIKE AGAINST HABANA ON 16 FEBRUARY 1965

BY THE MIRR

CONTROLLED DISSEM

• PRIORITY

TDCS 08315100550-65

DISTR. 16 .FEBRUARY 1965

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FEBRUARY 1965)

REF

IN 81818

BELD REPORT NO. UFG 6710

APPRAISAL, A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE

SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

• THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK. FIORINI.

1. AT ABOUT I:8E AM ON 16 FEBRUARY 1965, FRANK FIORINI SAID

THAT THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONAR I.

(MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) WAS

PLANNING ANOTHER AIR STRIKE OVER CUBA ON 16 FEBRUARY. BILL JOHNSON,

AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO ARRANGE - THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOR SUCH STRIKES

AGAINST CUBA, TOLD FIORINI. THAT HE AND MIKE RAFFERTY HAD HAD A.

HEATED ARGUMENT WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, MIRR LEADER, AT ABOUT

11:45 PM ON 15 FEBRUARY BECAUSE BOSCH WANTED HIS PILOT TO BOMB

THE CITY OF HABANA. JOHNSON AND RAFFERTY TRIED TO ADVISE BOSCH

CONFIDENTIAL

CUITYOLLEO DISEA

AD/CI 2, CIA/NICE COAST GUARD BORDER PATROL FOT LENS TREASURY CUSTOMS

IMMEDIATE TO: STATE (RCI)

DIA/CIIC

1 8 19 809a 1 1940 20009

dress

---

## Page 4

14-00000

REPO LAN 18

MoLin box

IN 81818

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-315/

PAGE

00550-65°

AGAINST SUCH AN OPERATION BUT BOSCH REFUSED TO BE DISSUADED 210

INSTRUCTED HIS PILOT TO MAKE THE MISSION. THE PILOT, AN UNIDENTI-

FIED AMERICAN WHO MADE THE PREVIOUS TWO RAIDS, AGREED TO MAKE THE

MISSION FOR A LARCE SUM OF MONEY. HE WAS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY

AN UNIDENTIFIED CUBAN PILOT.

2. FIORINI SAID THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF BOMBING SOME:

ANTI-AIRCRAFT UNITS NEAR CERTAIN UNIDENTIFIED TANKS BUT BOSCH

ALLEGEDLY INSTRUCTED THE PILOT TO FORGET ABOUT THEM AND HIT ANY-

THING HE COULD.

• 30 FIORINI SAID THAT BOSCH HAS A 8-25 HIDDEN IN THE NORTHERN

PART OF FLORIDA NEAR AN UNIDENTIFIED SUGAR MILL. THE AIRCRAFT

WAS PURCHASED IN TEXAS AND IS IN GOOD CONDITION.

4. &FIELD COMMENT: THE MIRR ANNOUNCED ON 13 FEBRUARY THAT ONE

OF ITS TWIN-ENGINE PLANES BOMBED AND STRAFED THE BAHIA HONDA

SUGAR CENTRAL ON CUBA'S NORTH COAST OF PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE IN

THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF 13 FEBRUARY. ON 16 FEBRUARY THE MIRR

ANNOUNCED THAT THE B-25 WAS OVER CURA FOR ZI MINUTES ON THE RAID

MISO DID NOT DRAW ANY GROLIND FIRE. NAPALM BOMBS OF I8$ POLIOS: EACH,

A 286-POUND HIGH EXPLOSIVE BOMB AND PHOSPHOROUS. INCENDIARY LEVICES

WERE ALLEGEDLY DROPPED.: THERE HAS: DEEN NO ANNOUNCEMENT FROM CUBA:.

.. INDICATING THAT SUCH A RAID TOCK PLACE. HOWEVER, HABANA PADIO

DID NOT ANNOUNCE CONFIPIATION OF THE MIRR'S 17 JANUARY STRIKE

AGAINST THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL UNTIi TWO DAYS LATER.)

5º FIELD DISSEME SINCLANT, CINCSO, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

H070 3-08-68060

IN.ClEiP

TDCSDB-

PAGE 3

315/00550-65

OF STATE, USCG, BÜRDER PATROL, LENS, FBI, AND CUSTOMS.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLE SIE

J

---

