# 104-10069-10041

## Page 1

104-10069-10041

3-C/513 18

PADCESSINO ACTOIO

CASKED FOR ENTIRE

SHAUCH

chlol, Bovlot Bloc Division

CHOSe FUTOPSAR DIVLOLOS

catacos senten ( 154

SO NES

REDTOS/AFREGATTA/3

AEREGATTA/2 Furthér Contact with owner

of pantamint fraquanted by soviats and bia report on lightening

"Controla on intolloctuals in the USSR. 2. Lead to Anti-

Soviet Bulgarian First Secretary•

REPERENCI: (OFPA) 68716, 2 Decenber 1968

1. Ao mentioned in the referenced dispatch, Identity continues

to have contact with Soviets and apparently as indicated in

ABRECATPA/2's toport, forwarded under separate cover, with SOVBLOC

officials as well.

2. Identity's roport on repression of intelloctuals in the

USSR and a rocent tightening of the screws as he quoted an Investia

corroopondont io also of interest. In this report pleace note

AERICNITA/2'a report on a recánt traveler ta the USSR described

in (Q7Eñ) 89081.

36313

22

Sinco thoro aro throo First Socrotarios in the Bulgarian

Enapaoy wo could not idontify the official.

It could vory wall

BOVICENAD but station cannot confirm this since ACREGATTA/2

indicated idontity did not voluntoor the nane, and as experienced

in the pact with FAINBERG, will not give our names. The Station

w131 try again through AEREGATTA/2.

REGEGATIA/a report on porcible anti-Soviet

atlade with cubiarien

I' sec, possibly

iden/W MESWAP.

she Melan

SIDHAN

Attachment: Report U.S.C.

Dist: 5 - c/s0 w/att u.B.c..

3 - C/EUR w/att UD.c.

lastuse

СИРАТОМ

IS FORN

≥(0FP119052

SECREE

08255

BATE

JAN 21

22 January

19%9

420 F0.0

-74-6-725/3

OCTIO

---

## Page 2

14-00000

4.5.0. 0o. to

08PA-89086

January 14,69.

Ma ar!

d1/.

Meeting with Lev Adolnhovich ARONSON DOMINIQUE IrEn 6

of the

russian xestaurant "Dominique

Tel : 326-63-92. Alao a welloknow theatrocai

critic.

Vaually discreet about his/freequent/meetings with Soviet

vIgitors to Francer, Aronson told me today quite a number

of thinge on his latest encountere with them. So first he

said he spent an evening with Mrs Biasheva - a theatrical

critic from loningrad. It is not the first time he met her,

so she told him "that for the moment in leningrad is quite

a diffioult oppressive atmosphere," "that the intellectuals

have more difficultieg than ever

and once, talking about the

Ichecoslovaquia events Mrs B. told Aronson : "please do not

attribute to us the opinions expressed by Literatournaya

Gazeta - we the intellectuals of Leningrad were dead opposed

to it/the invasion/".

From other meetinga Aronson had lately with Soviet visitors,

namely one correspondent of "Izvestia", he got also impres

sion of a partioulary tight "zajim"/ turn of the screw which

18 felt presontly in USSR, especially In both capitala. then

no said,he got the impression that in USSR the intellectuala

find themsolves more and nore isolated from ordinary people

which, undor the aotion of now directives given by the autho

ritios bocomes "hoetile toward them". What are these new in

structions given by the sov authoritien ? - "To spy each

other and particulary the intellectuals/whom one cannot trust

to fight foreign influende and manners, to be proud of thoir

great comm. party, to become true proletarians"

said Aronson the party turns now toward the "bage", toward

support againat the upper circles of the population who are

fed up with the régime". The new directives, Aronson told, bore

fruit particulary in Moscow, where according to all his inter

locutors population became lately hostile toward the forei

gners and toward their own intelloctuala.Also people in the

stroet, in the shop became particulary rough and unpleasant.

Everyone uses "unprintable" expressions, which spread also

5/e arti/ to OFPA

890 8a

Aronson related also about the vening he spent recently with

the firet Secretary of the Bulgarian Embassy, who with his

wife were guents of Aronson in his restaurant. "Contrary to

what I expeoted - said Aronson - 1t turned out that thia Bul

garian diplomat is definitelly anti-communist minded, and 18

set against the Soviet Union".

"It surprised me so more,as

the First Secretary is a particulary truated and powerful

figure".I asked Mr. Aronson if this attitude of the Bulgarian

3y был App. А.

07255

N$ 6007

74-6-72513

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-2-

Secretary was not intended in some provocative purTose.so

Aroneon replied that he did not think so: because the

rian diplomat had no reaso to provogue him.Aronson noticed

algo that the Bulgarian diplomat expressed admiration for

all of those theatrical authore which usually are particula

ry hated by the communists. When Bronson asked him about the

theatre in sophia and if they could produce there such playe

ag they wanted, the bulg diplomat replied that thank God in

that sphere they were in Bulgaria still fairly independent

and that so far Moscow did not put its noze into 1t.

My comments: Two points in the statements of Aronson call

attention: First about the "new instructions

and directiveal

Fiven in USSR and Second :

about the

anti-communist dispositions of the

First Secretary of the

Bulgarian Embassy in

Paris./If the later is true, it could be quite

a "possibil1ty"/.

APERTURE CARD. REPRODUCTIONG

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Anpendix A.

Lev Adolphovioh ARONSON / often

called Mr. Dominique/,owner

of the rusalan rest. "Dominique"19, rue Bréa, Pario 6, tel:

326-63-92.

A very prosperous business man, he is rich. He possess

que colleotion of russian antiques. He is also the best theatri

cal-oritio in Paris. He contributs regulary to the russian

magásine "Vozrojdenie".He has also some relatives in USSF

whore he went many times.Of Jewish origine he however 18 de-

voted toward old Russia. In his restaurant he entertaing con

tinually soviet visitors and he probably is in Paris the man

who meets the most Soriet citizong. He is well acquainted to

several members of the USSR embassy.

He is no doubt very intelligent. He is also pleasant, has good

manners and like to entertain people in his restaurant.As to

his political opinions judging from what he always says and

always writes, he le an arowed anti comnuniat.

Weyknow him since many yoare and we are with him in excollent

terms, though we never became friende. He has a high considera

tion for z and now writes also for RM.

07255

74-6-72513

0210 3837

---

