# 104-10418-10302

## Page 1

1104-10418-10302

Deputy Chief, CI

Deputy Chief, CI/Project

22 June 1962

ITLUIGUAL - 61G10AK

Correspondence of & US Defector Who Recently Left the USSR Homebound

l.

As may be seen from the attached news Item, which

appeared in the WASHINGTON POST, 9 June 1962, & former

Marine Sgt. of Fort worth, Texas, who defected to the USSR

three years ago, left Moscow recently, together with his

Iniant child and Russian born wife bound for the United

States. A search

or the Project files revesled that the

attached subject item was seat to subject by his mother os

8 July 1961. Ju this item writer discusses sending a par-/

cel and requests him to write more frequently.

2. This Item v1l

I be os iuterest to Mra. Egerter, CI/SIG,

and also to the FBI.

Attachment

JUL 1 0 1961

61G10AK : Equal

---

## Page 2

13-00000

B04608

Crowell, Tex

alitsa Malisina

Have 7, Apartment 244

Minoke

Prosid

JUL 1 0 1961

61GI0AK

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Boy 608

Crowell Tex.

gulys, 1961

ine sheri

own, cres

(aho date you recene it)

silette Razor o blades

2 dick Trivel

I Pot holder

" Can sener (recogize it as the one you brought home

you might check these items and jud ody

2. ill

to send a see items far time te time

Does: Morn

work alas? The cure is a prel

girl and Dam sure will make nei

gond evet. Tell his hill. forn

that I will and he onetkg nice in

ew gesey) and ohe promised to get a copy

fo me. Ot will prakady he a mouth or ot

magazines dos

The people I wish for are real nich

---

## Page 4

13-00000

el am jerearring deines: We cat at 12:06

o click and sually by the teme I wish

the dishes it is about i so sher e im

there in th seitchen then (heleine it a not

in rest f the day it do nothing has

gah and go to Town which is fiftee

mile. Tim the ranch. The ranc

big with a lof if catth and knee. they

hare a Mexicon try wiking here from

you have a Chance to speck with any

Imerconi on wrete to any? Nure hager

you elon forget you Inglish: Does merin

speck fuglid! Wild you like me to send

you a dictmany?..

Ke yand and cite glen

Poses

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Number

To

From

61G10AK

OSWALD, Lee H. (Mr. &Mrs.

Minsk, IIb

OSWALD, M. (Mrs®)

Box 608, Crowell, Texas.

Date

Reold

28

July

SECRET

EYES ONLY

Language

Summary

English

GOW

IB - 8 July 61.: Mother writes to son. Writer mentions

the parcel which she sent the addressee. Writer also

inquires if addressee's wife Marina works. Addressee

Ls a former American who defected to the Soviet Union

in October 195917

SECRET

BINLY

ject.

Isses

---

