# 104-10250-10179

## Page 1

104-10250-10179

S. ANGERL FORM NO. BA

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENI

TO

4 DAIB: 9 April 1956

FROM

: Deputy Director (IOS)

Deputy Director (PPED"

: Deputy Director of Security

SUBJECT:

BALMES, Hidalgo

Subject is presently serving in

in a contract igent status.

le has been disapproved by this Office for conversion to staff employment.

subject was formerly a member of the Conmunist Party and worked for the FBI as

an informant.

2. lit. Foley and bir. Hall of the Internal Security Division, Department

of Justice, have been in contact with Colonel King, Wi, and Hir. Houston, rela-

tive to testimony subject may give in court on the Eugene Dennis case.

It was

agreed between Colonel King, Mr. Houston, and myself that subject's testimony

might very well involve this Agency if the defense counsel tried to inject into

the court record subject's employment with this Agency for the past several

King advised that subject's cover is not very strong and the CIA re-

lationship might well be established in court. Subject would come under heavy

attack from the defense counsel

in view of his having served as an informant

to the FBI.

3. It was agreed that Foley and Hall of 'Justige will be contacted

and advised that me will bring the subject fron

to the States for an

interview by Justice and the FBI.on this matter if they so desire, with the

request that they endeavor to find other witnesses who can provide the necessary

testimony without the necessity of calling this subject for court appearance.

If this is impossible, we must reconsider our position in light of the possible

insistence by Justice for subject's testimony.

AS anesta

bannerman

OS/ RL,B: agg

(9 April 1956)

Orig - DD(IOS)

574.

DD (PPS)

Subject File

Chrono

IRE!

---

