# 104-10186-10254

## Page 1

104-10186-10254

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATIONER-PORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI 316/01203-64

SUBJECT. Ovidio SAMA Viamonte

DATE DISTR 15 September 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES.

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

washington,

D.

.C.

DATE ACQ. September

1964

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

FIELD REPORT NO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

00

Not Reproduce

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATTVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing

personality information provided by the source and includes

supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals

mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Vice Consul at Veracruz,

bomb the Consulate: SAMA is out of tall on bail.

Source said

hat SAMA is an officer of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

Although

source has no documentary proof, he said he knew of SAMA's

Cuban intelligence affiliation from his own (Source's) trip

o Mexico, from observations in the DGI Headquarters, and fro

general

Shoptalk..,h.g.4..

Headquarters Comments

1.

An April 1963 report identified Ovidio SANA Viamonte,

passport number

63/174, as a Cuban diplomat assigned

Cuban Consulate in Veracruz, Mexico. •

2.

A usually rellable source, in a report dated 21 May 1963,

stated

that Ovidio SAMA was the Cuban Vice Consul in Veracruz,

Mexico, and that he was quite sick

with as amoeba.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DIA,

ARMT

NAVY

I AIR

INSA •

TIBI 2

REP

CINCLANT

• CINCSO*

I&NS

(Moto: Field detribution indicated by " *".)

INFORMATION REPORT KINFORMAULON-RERORI

I/SA/EOBI /HE/ 5/R

MI/SA/MOBI

iNE/MADR

2|CI/RIA

illE

TIX1674

: 31E

YO PROJECT (AMIUG 1

WH/SA/R

LINASH

*SCI-316/01203-6

LOL/SAICIA

BID/AN.

11

¡COORDINATING

TOTALS

title!

5

3

WH/SA T (1),

WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

wk

315R

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01203-64

-2-

3. An untested source, in a report dated 28 Nay 1963, said he had

on 14 May 1963 from a friond of his in Cuba wha

reported that an agent of the Cuban G-2, posing as a representative

of the Political Department of the Institute for Friendship with

arrived recently in Mexico. The agent, known only by the

nickname "SAMA," is operating in Veracruz, Mexico.

4.

A usually rellable source, in a report dated 6 June 1963, statec

that Ovidio SAMA, an employee of the Cuban Consulato In Veracruz.

was in Mexico City where his wife had just arrived from Cuba.

5.

On 16 April 1964, two newspapers reported that Ovidio SAMA

Viamonte, the Cuban Consul

Mexico City on 16 April 1964 after shooting and wounding Alejandro

REINOSO Herrera, a Cuban exile. REINOSO threw two Molotov cocktails'

at the Consulate.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

