# 104-10110-10431

## Page 1

104-10110-10431

S201E7

AIR SUPPORT DIVISION, DD/P

11 July 1962.

RELEASE CONTINGENCY PLAN 62-2

CHART OR MAP REFERENCE:

Sectional aeronautical charts! As reguired.

RETURN FO CIA

Background Use Only

-Do Not Réproduce:

TASK ORGANIZATION:

24

Major

Billy B. Campbell, Commander.

1a SITUATION:

Dantel li, Carawell (Allas), Eustace H. Danbrunt (Alfas) and Edmand

R. Taransky (Allas) are ISD Staff Employees who were apprehended by

Cuban authorities In September 1960 and who are now serying ten year

sentences. Efforts are being made to secure their release.

Since

ther release may ocçur without advance notice and at a yarlety of places,

le. Havana, Miamt, Mexico City, Switzerland,

Brast, etc.. if lo

1, preative that a contingency plan be formulated to ensure the recure

reception of these employees.

The controlling factor in all phases of the release procedure le

that these employees were in Cuba under alias and that during the entire

period since their capture their allases and cover stortes apparently.

have been maintained.. Therefore it is essential that these allases be

maintained until such time as the employees have returned to Agency coni

trol and then have these alias identitiea disappear as quickly as possible.

Mian.

For planning purposes the release pointe will be Havana, Mexico

City or "other areas

2.

MISSION:

124

provide

black air

transportation from port of entry CONUS to the designated safe

area,

3.

EXECUTION:

A. Black air transport will be provided under this plan at the

request of TEW, COS Mexico, or Operational Support Division/OS/DDS

depending on the release point and port of entry.

---

## Page 2

• B. Request for black transport should Include: :

1. Request that RELEASE CONTINGENCY OPLAN 62-2.be

Implemented.

2.. Port of entry.

Date, Local time, and airfield desired for pick up."

4 4. Desired destination.

Other reguirements, le., stretchers or binke ln the event

subjects are hospital cases.

6. Name, Organlation and telephone number of requesting party.

and off-loading pointe

7 Namo and iblephone mumber of KUBARK contacte at loading

C. The following personnel are knowledgeable and charged with the

responsibility of activating this plan:

1. Major RIchard I. Skinner, AD/ASD/DD/P

Organization: Alt Support Division, DD/P

Home Phone: JE 3-1409

Office Phone:

Sterile Numbers ME 8-6285,

EX 3-8515

Extenslons 6862, 7664, 7367

Red Line 1058

03

2 Mr.

Organization:

Home Phone!

Office Phonel Same as

Air Support Division, DD/P

08

3. Major Billy B. Campbell, Commander, Deto lo:

Organization:

'24%

Eglin Air Force Base, Florida.

Home Phone:

662737

Office Phone:

Eglin Air Force Base, Florida 632590

4. Major Kenneth R. Burton. Ors Office.

344

Organization:

Eglin Air Force Base,

Flfrida.

Home Phonel

Office Phones

662468

Eglin Alr Force Base, Morida 631213

44/80

---

## Page 3

Det/A furnish 1 C-54 and crew in standby capacity until

further notlce.. Standby capacity le herein defined an capability to

position the alrcraft al any port of entry in east, south or southwest.

U.S. from Boston to Lon Angeles within 15 houre.

Mansi.

City,

=.

Assuming the subjects will be released in Havana or Mexico

will prepare mission folders for flights from most probable

porte of entry to laolation and Andrewa Alr Force Base.

RICHARD I. SKINNER

Distribution:

Orig. & 1=

CI Statt

3

÷ OS

3

- OP

3

. = MS:.

= C/FE

3

• C/TSB:

3

.cça

3

-TEW.

3

- C/ WH

3 ÷ DPD/DDR

---

