# 104-10216-10359

## Page 1

104-10216-10359

shite

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SS SECRET

PERSON/SIT NOTIFIED

• TOTAL COFIE$

30

AmLAsile

* 8

Front

REPROOUCT ION FROHIBITED

EA

ACTION

WOMANCE COPY

TIME RA-CS

190

MR. FILE, DDP, /WH/SA -8, CI, CI/StS, FI, SOD-6, CI/PS, C=/DA

SECRET 261536Z

DIR INFO

WAVE CITEL

3291.

To 1 2045

KEYWAY PBRUMEN AMLASH AMBANG I

1 FOLLOWING SUMMARY AMLASH 1 AND AMBANG I ACIIVITIES MADR AS

DEVELOPEE DURING THEIR CONTACIS WITH GUSPORT 1.

A. 13-14 FEB AMLASH I IS MADR. IN CONVERSATION WITH EUSPORT SAID

HE VERY UNHAPPY WITH MEETING WITH AMBIDDY 1, THAT LATTER THINKS TOO

MUCH TERAS

JO HIS POLITICAL FUTURE PBRUMEN RATHER THAN HOW GET RID AMTHUG.

ATLASH 1 INDICATED HE DREWN INTO MEETING AMBIDDY 1 BY FRIENDS WHO WERE

PAID TO MAKE ARRANGEOLENTS,

B. AMLASH I SAID WANTED SEE AMBANG I WHO ONLY PERSON WITH LARGE

FOLLOWING ACTIVE IN UNDERGROUND IN PSRUMEN.

C. ANBANG 1 IN MADR I8-21 FEB DURING WHICH TIME TOLD AUSPORT HE

MET WITH ATLASH 1 MONTY HOTEL PARI A TIMES BETWEEN 15-17 FEB. AMJANG I

SAID HE PLANNED COORDINATE HIS ACTIVITIES INSIDE PRUMEN WITH AMLASH 1

AND PROVIDE AMLASH 1 WITH SOME SUPPORT MATERIÄL THROUGH HIS CHANNELS.

AYBANG 1 SAID HE IMPRESSED WITH AMLASH I'S CONTACTS IN AND OUT OF ARMY

AND FEELS MUCH CAN BE ACCOMPLISHED BUT MUST DELAY INTERNAL ACTION

UNTIL AFTER WAVE OF TERRORISM, SABOTAGE AND SUBVERSION WHICH AMBANG 1

PLANS UNDERIAKE SOON.

---

## Page 2

ing on

=

IN 12049 82

ZO GUSPORI I: SAYS AMSANG E NOW GAGANIZING: TECHNICALLY FOR INTERNAL

SA3 AID HAS MANY: DRAWINGS, OF WEAPONS, SILENCERS, DETONATORS, CLAIMS

SPENT. S8E,907 DEVELOPING NEW WEAPONS FOR SAR- AMBANG I SAYS ME WILL

PRODUCE "ACTION" BEFORE. SEEKING ANY: FUFTHER: PUBLICITY*

3o APLASH I ARRIVED MADR: 20 FEB. IQ TAKE. FLANE: PBRUMEN AND HAD

TEL CON WITH AMBANG I: MADR PRIOR AMBANG I°S. DEPARTURE PBPRICE 21 FE3.

SECRET

CFM

.

---

