# 104-10176-10043

## Page 1

104-10176-10043

.JUTING AND RECORD SHES

SUBJECT: 10210901

FROM.

Pauline Miller

TH-5509

1O: (Officer dropration, rooms number, end

bundang)

Ext.

6471

DATE

SOME POMADE

CSCI-3/772,145 L-

DATE

7 August 1962

OFFICES

PATIALS

COMMENS a be at seem to shoo to shar

C/TFW/CI

I/TEL/PA-BROP

5.

TF"/Erec

15 вид д20

7.

C/TF™

espitegles

15/5-1518

CI/Llalson

16 AUS 1950

121 pent

10.

11.

12.

13.

RIDIAN

REF 426691

ASSTATE

DATE 165 AUG :962

13.

, 610 *IRMOS ES SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

Se entire 03-saie

7.7ui62

UNCLASSIFIED

50150910010-80

---

## Page 2

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

Helplit en

15 AUG: 252

TO

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigator

Ittention: Mr. B. J, Papich

PROM

& Deputy Director (Plana)

VIBUBIC : ROlando MASYEARER ROJe 201- 042669

+994-1020===193

=-9-959

the folloring

information bich bo

said was received from

a Cuban exile in Hew Ycrk City whose reliability in unknown:

Bolando HASTIRRIE Rojas, & prominent

Cuban exile, has a half boar dally radio

progIan from 10:30 to 11:00 p.a. on Station

WEVD, 11T W. 46th Street la Yew York City:

telophone:

Plaza 70880.

Ho la recruiting

for his noti-Castri organizatios!

which be cisin 1s big becked b the

Central Intelligence Agency.

threo tralaing camps for these recruits.

At mootIngs of MISFIRRER'S GYOUD, attondod

by sa many as 10 people, MiFEBT said he had

discussed the detaila of his recruitent and

tralning program with nonbers of the Central

Intelligence. Agency, and at one meeting he

to the presence at that meeting of

delegates of the Contral Intelligence Agency.

On Sundays menbers of MAPERIZR'S grOUp

no by autonobiles to a country home la lew

Jersey "to practica".

is the house, and alue

In the houses of other irlends, they have fum.

Wher they to fron on place. to another they ar

guarded by trends.

It in not clear fron the information seoeived whether

MABPRIZE do A 1950d 30 BYe do these claim over a radio

SECRET

201-42669

---

## Page 3

4-g0001

- SECRET

3A1w

PrOgraM, 0s only at sootinge and la privato converaatIons.

3.

Tho following Enformation concerning foiaude

SFIlEE vas received fron an antested source "ith goor

contacte anone Cubene in anti-Castro orcaniratiom:

ioger hobass, describod ry a former

o111cer

in the Cuban ant1-Cutro clandestine

organization knows an toldad Revolucionarte,

told source on 31 July 1952 that be vas

approached by MASYBRER 1a New York in July

1982 with a request to Jola his paramllitary

traling group.

Eroup will Inflitrate into Cuba.

Co MASFERRER sald that by Laying all conte

out of his own pociet and by not rolying on

past backers, he la able to mintain security

of hin ow operation and 1a able to avoid dis

cover, and negation by the United Btatea.

Governi

rofused to join the group. Horever,

It la felt that

Icould be parsuaded to jola

penetration.

be arranged between

shold the Burg so deglie a contee coule

Tras expected to

return to Sew York fron hia Manl rialt on or about &

AngIEt 1262.

5. This Agency has no contact vith MISPERNER and bas

nover supported his actlvitles or those of any group known

to be under ais leadership®

CBCI-3/773,115

TFW/C]/PMiller:sab (7 August 1962)

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

- RID

1

1

TIW/R

- TFW/CI

Based on:

UFGA-4687, 9 July 196:

(source:

PASSAVOY

from AMSUD 1)

NAVE 648G, IN 39152

A BLEAR Lj952 (Sourco

File No.:

201-42669

SECREi

---

