# 104-10147-10436

## Page 1

104-10147-10436]

CONGAL

ASCA

CUS RECORO COPY

-

OLC #78-31.30

7 November 1978

Kingsier

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

03

SUBJECT : Meeting with Mr.

03

1. Yesterday afternoon I met with Mr. lin the

company of Messrs. Shepanek and Holmes. The purpose of the

meeting was to ascertain Mr.

recollection of cer

tain events in Mexico City in connection,with the visit of

Lee Harvey Oswald there.

I told Mr.L

_the question

that had arisen over the memoires of Win Scott.

03

2.

While Mr.

has not read the Scott memoires,

he said that he could offer speculation on how Scott came

to write such

Mr. Scott at times was "prone to

exaggeration."

_said that Oswald's visit came at

the end of the summer.

The summer was a period when lots

Ofozkooks came to Mexico and contacted the Soviet Embassy.

said that this proved to be very time consuming

From the Station's point of view as the Station was obliged

to report to Headquarters and appropriate Embassy components

on these people when they were identified. He considered

this function to be one of "no profit" operationally,

although it was of course a necessary CI responsibility.

3. When Oswald identified himself in a telephone call

to the Soviets it was viewed byl

_as being a meaning-

less instance of one more probable useless contact to

repertin on, a part time emplo

for the Station had no record or file on Oswald.

ended up writing

Cable.

No one

thought much of Oswald, and Win Scott signec

off on the cable without question.

On the question of photographic coverage he said

there is a practical explanation of why there were no

photographs of Oswald.

He said the work was very boring

He believes that the Mexicans were simply not photographing

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TAL

E 2 IMPDET CL BY./3120

21794

8lg0

---

## Page 2

everyone. He is

categorical in saying that neither he

nOr

his wife

ever

saw a photograph of Lee Oswald.

While neither

he nor his wife reviewed all

the photography (a responsibility

of Anne Goodpasture) he would have seen it had it existed.

He feels that Oswald's

appearance was so distinctive that

it would have made an impression on him.

He said that in

his meetings with the HSCA he had told them his personal

convictions, which he still holds, that there was "no

conspiracy

at the Station."

and, would more than likely

have seen all pictures. In sum,

not rond the soviet gree

and wife are convinced that the Station had no

photographs of Oswald; and that the Mexican photo LP

operators are probably alone responsible for not having

taken pictures of Oswald's entries or exists of the Soviet

Embassy.

03 5.

Following the assassination of President Kennedy,

recalls a

number of Agency personnel listening t

radio broadcasts.

When the name of Oswald occurred

his

first reaction was, "My God, that's the man I reported on."

Someone else may have responded similarly but he recalls

that as his reaction. This led to a cable to Headquarters.

Speaking in a rather all-inclusive way he said

that there were no photographs of Oswald there then, so

there were none to burn or destroy afterwards.

7.

mentioned the fact that the HSCA people

pressed him on why Tom Karamessines had signed off on a

communication for a name trace.

He could not understand

it. Holmes told him that the Division Chief had signed

the cable, which required the next highest person's

release.

clearly had not thought of that, and in

our discussion we observed that the HSCA investigators

were asking him (in the field at the time) what had

happened at Headquarters at the time.

8. He repeated that there was no conspiracy and he

told the HSCA people that they were "barking up the wrong

tree." [

said that at the time he testified he did

not know about the statement in Win Scott's memoire so

there was no occasion to comment on it.

9. Mr.

wife to see

_said that he would speak with his

she had anything to add to what he stated

2

9/20

---

## Page 3

CONPOCITIAE

He reported later that his wife had nothing addi-

tional to offer.

I told him that 1 would prepare a draft

memo of the conversation and show it to him before putting

it into final form, which was done.

p5 Buckin

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

Orig. - OLC/Subject

- OLC/ Chrono

- Mr. Shepanek

3

---

