# 104-10074-10043

## Page 1

104-10074-10043

ANCE CoPy

44: € 0F

CRET

40

TO Me NO

DISSEN EY

ACTION

2

SECRET 311416Z DES 68 CITE WHYMIAMI 2228

INFO DIRECTON;

3: Dec 68 1N6 3211

RYBAT TYPIC

11

REF

6753N 54727)

E FERNANDO PENADAZ OF REF IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH

FERNANDO PENABAL COBURN 1201-27156610 DOB: CIRCA 19210

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND. ACCUFOING TO AN AMOT REPORT DATCO

iS OCTOBER 19630 PENABAZO A LAWYER AND JOURNALIST,

ATTENDED DUKE UNIVEROIIY AT SAME TIME AS FRESIDENT ELECT

RICHARD NIXON AND IS GOOD FRIEND OF NIXON. PENABAZ

PRACTICED LAW IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA AND REPORIEDLY FORFEITED

Le So

CITIZENSHIP WHEN HE TOON OATH AS CUBAN LAWYER. BETUANTO

TO US IN 19600 STATION FILE IS SKETCHY BUT HE APPARENILY

WAS OF OPS INTEREST TU PWAVE PSYCH WARFARE SECTION UNTIL

LATE 1963 WHEN HE DROPPED BECAUSE OF INVOLVEMENT IN LOS.

POLITICS, MIAMI HERALO OF ZA AUGUST 6A REPORTED HE NAD

BEEN APPOINTED ADVISOR TU REPUSLICAN NATIONAL CONMITTEE ON

CUDAN AFFAIRS. AN ANOI REPORT DATED

15 NOVEMBER 1966 STATES

PENABAZ WAS MEMBER OF THE CHRISTIAN ANTI-CONMUNIST CRUSADE

(CACC)D A RIGHTIST GROUP ORGANIZED ALONG LINES OF JOHN

BIRCH SECESTY, AND UNTIL AT LEAST ISES WAS ON PAYROLL

OR CACC AS DIRECTOR FOR LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS,

ACCORDING

RETURNTO CIA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onfe

SECRET Background Us Cry

"Do No. Te

Do Not Baproduc

10601

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ROO

RUCTION OF THIS COPY *C

DOVANTE CON

BOULD

BLOTTEN

ВПЕр

SECRET

CrOSS BY -

TO FILE DeC

4490:01:98890

BIANCA.

BRID COPY

PAGE 2 UN/MIAMI 2200 SECRET

TO UFG-7798, 15 DECEMBER 19650 FROM A USUALLY RELIAULE

SOURCE, PENABAZ, AN ASSOCIATE OF GENERAL EDWIN WALKER,

WAS ARRANGING A MEETING BETWEEN GENERAL WALKER AND

GENERAL ELIAS WESSIN Y WESSIN®

2GENT

REPORIED IMAT HE AND

20 IN JANUARY 67

ANOTHER CUBAN EXILE HAD MET WITH ONE RAYMOND MOLINA,

SOUTH FLORIDA REGIONAL COORDINATOR OF THE JOMN BIRCH

SOCIETY, TO DISCUSS SUPPORT FOR AN OPERATION AGAINST FIDEL

CASTRO. MOLINA SAID HE WOULD CONSIDER THIS PLAN AND ALSO

E A PLAN FOR OPERATION AGAINST HAITI. IT WAS UNDERSTOUD

INAT THE SOCIETY MIGHT FINANCE THUSE OPENATIONS.

ACCORDING TO MOLINA'S BUSINESS CARD, HE WAS ASSUCIATED MIN

CONSOLIDATED INVESIMENT PROPERIIES, INCO, MIAMI SCAON,

AND/OR PALM BEACH DEVELOPMENT AND SALES COAPORATION.

3. FOLLOWING IS FROY STATION CARD. CARD INDICAIES

DOCUMENT CA

MEMO DATED 12 FEBRUARY TOCO IS FILES

IN 201-265497 WHICH TRANSFERRED IO HOS IN RAY 1958:

RAYMOND MOLINA, CUSAM, IS PROPRIETOR OF 'AMERICANA SALES"

AN EXPORT COMPANY NICE APPEARS TO SE OSE ON IKE SOURCAS UP

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

LADIANCE COON

SOY:

SECRET

am. 20 one no:

DY.

RIDiCOPY

PAGE 3 WHMIAMI 2200 SECRET

CONTRABAND ARMS AND OTHER PRODUCIS FOR COLOMBIA AND

OTHER LATIN AMERICAN CUUNIRIES. MOLINA HAD GONE IU:

PANAMA TO BUY WHISKEY WHICH WAS TO BE SMUGEEZE INTO

COLOMBIA.

SINCE PENABAZ AND MOLINA APPARENILY ARE U.S.

CITIZENS AND ARE INVOLVED IN LOS POLITICS, STATION

DID NOT QUERY AMOT DEFER TO HOS FOR GUIDANCE ON MUL

MUCH, IF ANY, OF ABOVE TRACES MAY BE DISCUSSED WITH

ENWISE-7

5 0.

FILE: 201-271566. INDEX MOLINA•

SECRET

SECRET

SECRET

---

