# 104-10193-10126

## Page 1

104-10193-10126

DISPATCH

if lane, wait:

7.14 1

it scatica, caracao

sian intrea In Venorunla

jre irragraph ?

WARRIO TOE INDEXING

NO IDLING RIQUINED

ANDERING CAY BE SUDGIO

BY QUALIND HO DISH ONIT

LILORITI

An ipcronine muster of aunar eulles Ar our arrivlos 10 VoDezual

* salevonducte ura momy lamed to to dino rovernat for asyloes 1n

* various furilyn embannios 10 Haina bles tock arise Mottle April 1962.

And those enlion are, some who tirit an sidle part er urporat sador-

¿round sod merrilla eroups oppoalis le castro severant, Bumé of then

ae now trylos to sot vino to that tiny can reir aunt Usels alandestio

accluitles to thale superiora in the cubar. erupa 10 MiamI CLANK-I hao

¿midol the Statioo u1ta: the name of the dolloodia poroons to this cate-

sITy sue to tna nat in the course ul bis activiatas du trylag to bola...

re-luento the cuban antles por artirins lu the country:

Roger Antonio AQUIRALT 'Arta - born 19 Moverter 2907

iTVCA-8332)

Member MEn to vaa "restosable ailitar" for the HRA 10, the

HY0A -8363

in 854415

province of listantas so latenta to report to De. Ducar BALAs.

Luite Barnabe ROLA Deudiyues - born 22 Detober 1956

kaaler of the Diroctorio Estudiantil.

Galllerno Auralio APOCA Dundiguor, - born 4) February

1940,. Monor of the Directorio Estudlanili:

Eduardo MACLA Derlaget - born 25 March 19h1. Member

of tha Unidal Paunluctonarta do used the moe Juan Brutleto

sanches durlos underground activities.

2. Since thi local conmilate no

lorder morally lanes touriat v181

is any cuban eodles bist insiata on amir appllie for inauratior visass,

which reguire l- 6 soake melta thas at satulmis, the station orla

preciate any sotion Brencerters any wah to tate throigh

120. 24

uthorizo the local ovusulate to issue tourlet minas to the stuna name

persong..

10018 tendal/How

29 June 1961

DistrIbution

3 - chini,

2 -SHAVE

2 - FileB

4(R5

Tal:

Trace no

---

