# 104-10422-10258

## Page 1

11041042210258)

OUTGOING

ACMALCINIERULE ONLY

AC.F

0

1ESSAGE

De

OMF

0

SECRET

MESSACE HANDLING INTICATO!

ШЕВРАСТ ФЕРЕНЕИСЕРМВІ

040595

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

DISSEM BY :675

PER SOF

IF PILES

#132

442, AGE/DDO

•TO: PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION. Y

ATTENTION: INTD-CI/3 Y

CIR-316/01845-774

SUBJECT: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA Y

CHRONO

L. A. FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY ADVISED THIS AGENCY ON 23

MAY 1977 THAT HE HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY ROLANDO MARTINEZ: ANOTHER

FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY AND CONVICTED WATERGATE BURGLAR, WHO

PASSED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

MARTINEZ ASKED OUR SOURCE TO RELAY THE INFORMATION TO

THIS AGENCY: J

A. MARTINEZ WAS CONTACTED IN MIAMI, FLORIDA BY SALVADOR

ALDEREGUIA, AKA "EL GALLEGO" AND ASKED TO MEET WITH A CUBAN INTEL -

LIGENCE OFFICER IN MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA ON 24 MAY. ALDEREGUIA TOLD

MARTINEZ THAT IN VIEW OF MARTINEZ' IMPRISONMENT AND MISTREATMENT

BY THE U•S. GOVERNMENT SUSGE FOLLOWING THE WATERGATE AFFAIR, THAT

MARTINEZ MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN MEETING WITH THE CUBAN IS OFFICER. Y

• B. MARTINEZ, ACCOMPANIED BY ALDEREGUIA, PLANS TO FLY TO

MONTEGO BAY AT ILOO HOURS, 24 MAY. THE CUBAN IS. OFFICER WHO IS TO

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICEN

COORDINATIO OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

AUTHENTICATING OFFICEN

E. 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 01,7774

---

## Page 2

13-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

AGR

SIGNAL CENTERUSE

OMF

0

CLASSIFICATION

•0

SECRET

MESSAGE MANOLING INDICATOR

0

TPE

MAO

D

DATE MARGROU

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DC:

0 ..

erri

CIA

.040595

0

• INDEX

NO INDEX.

RETURN TO

APOCA NUMBER

DISSEM BY:

PER

• MEET WITH THEM IS SUPPOSEDLY FLYING FROM CUBA AND NOT STATIONED IN

JAMAICA: Y

C. MARTINEZ IS PREPARED TO BE DEBRIEFED AFTER HIS RETURN

TO MIAMI: ACCORDING TO MARTINEZI THE FBI IS AWARE THAT HE HAS BEEN

APPROACHED PREVIOUSLY IN MIAMI. Y.

D• MARTINEZ SAID THAT ALDEREGUIA IS A CUBAN EXILE WHO

WORKS FOR WORLD FINANCE COMPANY IN MIAMI, FLORIDA. Y

2. THE ABOVE IS FOR YOUR INFORMATION AND WHATEVER ACTION YOU

DEEM NECESSARY. Y

3.. SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. • EXEMPT

FROM

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E•O. ILbS2 EXEMPTION CATE-

GORY 58627. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICA-

chLAlCOG

ORIG: LA/COG/EXILE 1

XI325}; COORD:A AGC/DDO

CATKINS; AUTH: C/LAD WARRENT; REL: A C/PCS/LSN &

Pa. CI/OG

PoS

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

24 MAY 1977

LA/COG/CI

1325

PC/PCS/LSN

RELBASINO OPPICEA

FRCW

C/LA/COG-

AGC/DDI

CI/OG-

vast

COORLINATINO OFPICEAS

AUTHENIICATINE ORFICEM

---

## Page 3

13-00000

OUTGOING TESSAGE

15"

And

SIGNAL CENTER.USE ONLY

1.01

ACA

OMF

0

0

0

0

SECRET

HANDLING INOCATOE

DATH-TIME GROUD

25195-2

CIA

CONF: MAAS INFO:

FILE CIPlOME@ASNID.OPSS

D

0

INDEN

WO INDEE

040595

DISSEM BY :515

PER SOf

#132

¡TO: PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION. Y

ATTENTION: INTD-CI/3 Y

CIR-316101845-774

SUBJECT: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA Y

CHRONO

1. A. FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY ADVISED THIS AGENCY ON 23

MAY 1977 THAT HE HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY ROLANDO MARTINEZ, ANOTHER

FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY AND CONVICTED WATERGATE BURGLAR, WHO

PASSED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

SMARTINEZ ASKED OUR SOURCE TO RELAY THE INFORMATION TO

THIS AGENCY. J

A. MARTINEZ WAS CONTACTED IN MIAMI, FLORIDA BY SALVADOR

ALDEREGUIA, AKA "EL GALLEGOT AND ASKED TO MEET WITH A CUBAN INTEL-

LIGENCE OFFICER IN MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA ON 24 MAY, ALDEREGUIA TOLD

MARTINEZ THAT IN VIEW OF MARTINEZ' IMPRISONMENT AND MISTREATMENT

BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT SUSGE FOLLOWING THE WATERGATE AFFAIR, THAT

MARTINEZ MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN MEETING WITH THE CUBAN IS OFFICER. Y

B. MARTINEZ, ACCOMPANIED BY ALDEREGUIA, PLANS TO FLY TO

MONTEGO BAY AT

1400 HOURS, 24 MAY. THE CUBAN IS. OFFICER WHO IS TO

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

COORDINATINO OFANCERS

CPASSIPICATION

•AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2

IMPDET

CL. BY: 07,0091

---

## Page 4

13-00000.

OUTGOING MESSAGE

TONAL CENTERULE OMEL

1,841

ACA

190

0x1

OMF

0

0

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDUNG INDICATOR

0

0

0

0

DATE TIME GROUS

erra

CIA

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

040595

FAw:

.2

+CE равен

DISSEM BY:

RETURN TO

PER

I8 FILES

#

MEET WITH THEM IS SUPPOSEDLY FLYING FROM CUBA AND NOT STATIONED IN

JAMAICA. Y.

C. MARTINEZ IS PREPARED TO BE DEBRIEFED AFTER HIS RETURN

TO MIAMI: ACCORDING TO MARTINEZ, THE FBI IS AWARE THAT HE HAS BEEN

APPROACHED PREVIOUSLY. IN MIAMI. Y

D. MARTINEZ SAID THAT ALDEREGUIA IS A CUBAN

EXILE WHO

WORKS FOR WORLD FINANCE COMPANY IN MIAMI, FLORIDA. Y

2. THE ABOVE IS FOR YOUR INFORMATION AND WHATEVER ACTION YOU

DEEM NECESSARY. Y

3.. SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. • EXEMPT

FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. I1652 EXEMPTION CATE-

GORY 5B(2}. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICA-

TION. M

c/LAlCOG&

ORIG: LA/COG/EXILE L

A X13251; COORD: A AGC/DDO

CI/OG

GNATHING; AUTH: C/LAD WARRENT; REL: A C/PCS/LSN&

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

24 MAY 1977

LA/COG/CI

1325

PC/PCS/LSN

HILDABINO OPPICEA

CILA/COG

AGE/DDO-.

СОСПОНАТІО ГЕФРА8

AUTHANIICATINL ORPICEA

---

