# 104-10174-10000

## Page 1

104-10174-10000

replane

TO : Claf, Jurisy inport Mrlsion

Ares : ired iscel, 1B5t

PRIl : Acting Chier, Interrogaton Research Dirlslas

SUSTET: C033, VIOLA JUS

Dote: 17 sotuter 1560

k0à31

MEYER: TO CIA

Bacorcund use Only

' Do Not Reproduca

IDSE DTUG DATA

1. Jubject al lala report 18 a thirty-three-year-old fanto Anario

altizon born 1n Panes City, Cklahoma, In August 10077.

eTimEly Interiorad on 7 Are 1S00 under mostlaratory cocilticos 1

had share vas not murticloat tles to Interrogate Subject un reacticos t

specific questions.

2. During the Interten with Subjact on 1 Ine 1960, sna ocustacti

upplied voluminous laformation regarig niny personalities is Obe and.

in the United States, all of shas vor tavolved in the present Cuber

altuition. It was felt by the iterrogstor that subject, bechuse of hai

pool lon In Cab, associntes, and mcover, no veil 31 bir motionl

feelings for the Cuban people and ber stated strocs beller and lour of

PuBi Castro's 26th 0l July Progres, torid undoustedly be a security riali

11 another Interrogation mi polyeras testing could not be afforded.

It was agreed by all cocered, after revier of the entire

interrogation of subjoci, that there ture many preselt and futine Securit

rem1r1ouzione 1ry0lving subject mi that as mch tavestigution end

resosacò so possible vould be doo and plans wouid be nedo for dar

undersigned to reintervion and Intarvesto Subject.

infore subjeet departed ln June tó retur to Cuba, aba mua adulead

that the linitod States Goverment mid no doabt mat to talk to ter ses later

date anl that she would be advised as to how to go about tbis.

advised that sacula sha so e nocá to retura to the United statar sh

sacula do so and us given a sears of cortest vlta the appropriace officiala

on her retur to the united states. On 16 Soptraber 1960, Jubjest made tibe

docialos to ratur to tha Unitod States.

sbe ootaled a tao-santh leave

of absenco withor pay iron ber superior, sir, Juan CRIA (NEYIRD), sara she

auro the inderstanding that be sus coring to the Unitod Fates to tie 38-

rathas sed for a rest.

Wasn Jubjoct arrired In Hey Yorks, abe sus corescted

by HiRe ropesentatives.

5. Arrangemente more made for subject to ba Interroguied by ebo

undersianed ma polyerapied et a covert sito la joston, ransacuates, on .

ar about I1 Octobar 1260.

:588-215511

---

## Page 2

alban

JOY 40437

Nil Bototas 1060

Press tho

PETALS CE BE PERCIS

Bject ma titorriend on the lit aul lain de lutober in Dostco,

inseechnetts.

Durins una miscinor of li vatober 1ou, julicot vo

suo fect began by edvising the indecaigned hat die was nost

conctrned about what uho tolt vas a brusco of security regarding bertels

and pure to Iciloving Intonatioo.

a, sustist eduled that one Dira ALEXAMRIA (18/IRO), 120 Fast

Tend Street, Fer York City, Jur York, undo contact vica bur sanetie

during tha end at september.

Jub joct etatod that Diana has obtatred Juntoot's

talephove numer from tas Lolaz funily sad, upon obtalning her triupte

number; called subject: Contact van ande tith ilans in illoject; and alnca

tiat time, they have had several oscial sugagaerie vith each story. During.

thone arcoctations vith Dians, subjoo" uso adeliod by Diana chit sta had a

Disas further stated that DArIlla sno spparently 1n lore vita ber eid that

mcretartal lab for bor with tie volian oremiation, iId.

3. Subjaot stared that upa boarre thia luurmailos she nas quito

concerod and repostod this Intorantion to har cau artico», "aunt ¿i1zabsta."

Apyroanataly tro dors liter, 3sbject by theon again dad sha edraad 1i0.500e

Eins to hnd received a talepicio call fron Dick DUITELS eccuetEy lor of

blabbing too ruch boesusa ha had revalved a telepione call tron taaniaston

nading the riot act to bia for haring told Dians about sure cass.

to do a rault of this, subject is confirad in hor ou mind tist

she 15 in touch with cIA.

Up to th1s tie, subject bail un'y amused tiat

16 was CIA that ans In contact wita bar.

Dubject, In essence, diated that

to has sos of thiaktng this uns very poor feurity on ba pait of cia and

she uns rused thai suci en Incident as tila ould happen. Murther

Information and detaila resuring this epeople inaldeit are sitest or

moordiog and can be revioved for more dotalla.

5. Subject adrived the undersioned of snorber troider that ha

caused her grest concer.

Tus Incides involves satelle SCRULDY (MID),

SECrETArY fOr DOCTOI I. SHAPPSI (I/ID), livine it de Barbison Pase Doral

SECRET.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

RIO: 40436

IT Corobar 1060

In Hew York.

DusurI, sira la a rory dra triod of rojects. No lo

misject ntatod than abe deply love»

Detor liPin and dis vira dad no conalderad thus as socord parents.

abject and siviani bor that in had bom intoried by ropresentatives of

eba Pal li thalr orloes locatal de Gita md in suino,

"How turk city.

SMOLor vas Intervieved coco'in february and the occund tina sometino

chorentter.

satella, referrod to by Diblect as 3asha, Bitriel 315jact int

tho f'al san intervening ber told bor that Jusa cuss mo a dopa addlet, o

Corntat,

and frvalved in ma stortion racket.

subjoct assted that during

hor vialt. Iu dune 1960 nho had attomptod to contact Doora: SeNTR and

funt his vary aloof. la lacer told hor that be did not mit to have

anytiing to do sten nor. stros thie contact in ture, subjoct has attempted

to deterauo sty ella very doer frlera so Longer vented to see her. Snos

subjoot'a arrival lii septoccer, she has attenuted to me Doctor MAPPIPI

As a realt of tha

novs the resors ity Doctor SAPP. vill haro sothing to

Subjoco, 10 most distmbed and put out as a remili of this incideut and

Inasta that steps be tarm lo rooty the defender un has characier; or,

at any reto, to outim in locar SAipers sind that she 1n sot coneidord

by tho

United Sinted Coverant a perion an doocribed by the 10i. a a

remilt of thoee tus inelderto, sub, loot has statoù that borare she can agroo

to retura to cusa abe santa cho records etralphoned not only to lar ou

attaraction but to malaly reautabllah her reputation sits Doctor staire

a aloo courtra in ber riber ou mind that abo to acceptina to perfor

a rites servior for cao insted otatos Governat.

6. During tho interison, sibjoot mimitted voluntrous tatortion .

PantinE paramalitIes, 1403i", and iN copies.

Tnne nattory bare been

orally reported to d

The stars sontloasd abovo

an wintrod becans or their security rulfientions.

The otber operational

Informidas glened 11a sujoct 3111 lo the dujoot of a sajarate report

•and appropriately dimarted.

subject was given polys aph teuting beginning it 1400 hourg en

12 October 1960.

During the polyonal toterler tis follorine questiona

vere prosanted to subject, discussel, and then polya sphically precouted to

Teat Fi

A0. Is Jor true none Viola Ano C033?

42i Hero gou dor 1s the state of Oklahona!

---

## Page 4

46431

1l coRoines 1050

Hage four

42. Hano jus born in the tonta ci Auerso?

He stare you Darn In the year 19R1?

ah, is your rathar's first nas Joaper?

15. Do you bellove in borld Coummien?

150. Do you read Commist Istersture!

16, sald you support coumles 1a tbo Unitod Stater?

A7. toula sou do anything sor casunion to arraigo the dosafall

of tho Undted Jtatos Coveteent!

40. Aro you a Comniet?

49, Do jou ballovo in tho basto thourses of Comuntast

50. Does any Contandut in Quos hane control ovas joul

50a. Ild you ere Indieste to COLlIN you vorted for Abricso

Intelligence?

1950 12

60.

Other shan with the united States fovertment, have you

ever sorted with any Intelligenes orgenization!

Havo jou evur sored a dories oi Satellite Intelligeroo

barricet

62. Dld jou ever recuire intollienco tralaine?

63.

Otber than vith us, do you have sy Intelligenso polaections

jual do not want to sall so about?

Ot. Aro you sa Intolliges agent for sayure?

65. Are you on Intollierce spent for sopare in Quite!

51. Do you lot end understand the basic tharles and princiates

o8 Coremisa

---

## Page 5

SECRET,

10431

Li SURDEr 1060

¡ave you atrepted la blas any st pour porsaral bircary

five net

Tha limy you deliberately given va any false Infarationt

12, Taro you doiliarsialy given us suy false information edst

your 11fo?

13.

Ere you reparted to

contacts with sai

74.

are you arise. any representatave of the Ducan Coverent

about your cartacta vith ual

Test t

30. Stoco ago 13, baso you ever angaged in cemal activity rita

81, To your inovlodgo, have jun omisted any undetected criess?

Sa, Bave you aver prodivel prychiatric sârice?

83. Tid you ever une nareoties?

0e. Rare you ever been a dopo addict?

3. Durias polymani testing, subjoci had this latesiasason stay se

tent to atribe his thai she could not mover thia questica (pul) traile

althout flist aslaintag too thing. "list disset saritod time ade bad

at dixso tina 1n the gast, the date sho cano: macifically rocall, filled

out forma la the Departiant es stato 1s vich she had surn t: too lost

mr Irat psagpart.

subject seriod that she did not 10s0 ber first

paapport; sho otill tau te in bei posessalon.

tha stated that the sated

to keep 10 for a numezir and zuns vian sue veni to jar Dapartment ci sirdo

to report her lane of à passpor als had a olosa friend vita sec.

Sos said

tant aừs folt 1t would be sost enbarrassing then the topartment of slio

representative said illl you plen fill out thira for conflining tbe

staterest that jou loot your pasopost 11 ano had rarued to do su in sici

or bor triend.

Is statad that this la lao roason way abo falalited las

i..

---

## Page 6

42:31

1i ichiser IXo

100s 515

astret arised titli ie sonci trái diuda cie laad dia sel

DID LC

SPaiTna:

tor clies frie aid associsie:

Roiri, Ward .dütC: Eug DiENJUaiS 50

ño this polnt, diujcei mtrised ino as a incre- ii lach tha day thas

1u0j00t arid t lor lurs la ipaci t ila tro'o prii sie erterod

the intuod sities a8 da0 Caso.

ji jont Sil2ld 1193 9 80Y 6073 1A12 200

Iaed s ber unrr the soior bad alo sid iu iey jork at the

DALE CRE:S'E JOLTO DE tDe ALMPOTÙ MdES LiC INDe IS FiOLa DiI3.

told diajeos that "e cuaton's iapecvir al ques-loe der ss to vbetoa.

ar sot she and s alolei stres moth ouas boi ais aina that soa day.

testing, sinjoci stopped the tas, shoa cira ii

s1ti too quosticn:

sungeut saated tant or: hes

dey of desiture tien ioy tori to 10ri livi lI-zars et the al-port dbe.

uo ier cutlial surin becsuse ai ibe Darto, Muts lucidet uad

tran Ant illzaboi, nos sas gaotioe by mili by a siriene

din': Kan you had sn aul lisabei."

Hijen 39nr ven a: 10 1i 6 214

Of benpo stotita "Ca Damit, you livi I dia's taro au dilis 213s00t.

PLOASO LOSTO DE BIONA BOl des 'à qUETSLTA 193 EUY FELORi.

sibjec" fecls

thet ss a roult ef thes aotival ulecrebio, sho las télssted to

Robina, beyors a aradou or a doit tras sie ia chalino vit durica.

Iot l15ne. Phin is aloo bisei ou ibe isr sheù in sine, iom sub fect

Jo fursi 1a the jilted strtes, co, ELAlE, tad i, MuTo airesoted to

erault são bE tylag to Interrien tujec..

t sAs sas soar lered

onsáhia ol tho tame tias 1i suo le lih and tias lury vas s reyrersatatiro

of Cra.

9J50L3ICT

.. I' 1s th opinio af lix edersiand thet sbiat sas sos nai 1

Vi EcIrig sorlei or Sniclllt itallignes crsmipettas; soes sbe si

Cubac aurernt a Inteilipene s Tico.

ioe-re.."

---

## Page 7

14-00000

IRD; $0÷31

17 Cetober 1900

fage seven

2.

With raturence to bar ayupathies or ballefs 1n tbo. thourles or

principles of Coumuim, 1t ma establishi during the litanier that

suo jost does not study nor does she nata 1 a polat to read Comaniat

periodicalo o publications.

she vas asked spacifloall:

Ed under and the banto thorias and principles of Crease, you bore

sus joot

anuared that abs did sot, and 1t 18 bailoved shat this is a trutilll

answer.

subject did adult, borever, that Cartro's famoua distoriation

"History llll Abooive la" yes benically the inspiration for her to go to

Sube and do wbat ane in doing tody. It 10, theruforo, Indicatire that

Subjet's intellectun vain 1s most sympethetie ln this direction.

It 18

felt tant subjout 10 not a monte: of tho commiat Party; that ade 18 sot

• Insolen, In mapport of tols thero la pot my Indication tost she has ever

mpso. In bonocenal actlvity; ad that sho 10 not a dope aádiet nor hai

she ever indulged do the use de sarcotico.

attempting to dallberately hide ary Inioration about ber part; that be

has ever realed any intelligence training; sud that abe to an latelligence agent

for any foreigs sovermert..

MITHROGATOR'S CONES

03

Innaich as the undersigned has been roquested by Hr.

DARO to provido suidance and consuliation to Are. Pearson of his start

during the contacts that bore been nade by ber In tho United States, the

folloting comments ur subalsted for batever value iboy my be worth.

(1) It 18 falt that subjact will bo considared by the castro

Covernment as an attempt of Anerican penotration Into their circles abould

be retur to Caba. This opinion la bused on the previons sispiolars by

the Ge in Cuba of ber activities - the recorded long-distance telephone

calla in Cube made to ber and by her between ber and lay.

(2) To utilation of a teleg boon her father fra few Tork City

1r May or time 1960 requesting her to core to llen York when bes isther never

Ia otbur vora this arranganent vas not.

propriately backstopped for any possible questioning os surrelilanos by

tho Cuban Intelligeces.

---

## Page 8

, 8= 1 49

T2D: 2032

IT Ixx-16>

(3) The recent remolais: sy tibject that certal arasiases si hers

i Fey toi City asture sino ig in ctrono vita cin.

the cia: Intelliance at thia sise.

It 1s celiered the? a trat

Ile; sod, 1n her prosent fruce of sind, sise should de cindidared a pardon

vbase beilito ud idoslo are far to ebe leri end coula lui, unaringly to

er, a stanch fallover end supporte of launim

Ralpà 0. 174

CE/IRD/505:213.

Distribution:

0,3

HE/A

1 - Col. Lemris, D/00

3 - G/10

---

