# 104-10404-10447

## Page 1

110410404-1047

SEOMET

8 May 1967

MEMORANDUM NO. 2

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

GARRISON and the Kennedy Assassination

: CI/R&A Memorandum of 26 April 1967,

subject as above

1.

• An effort has been made to identify all CIA employees in New

Orleans, so that we shall have a ready checklist it District Attorney

GARRISON makes statements about any of them to the press, atlempts to

bring charges against them or to subpoena them, or take other action

disadvantageous to CIA. This list, because of its sensitivity, is included

as Enclosure 28 with only those copies of this memorandum which are

addressed to the ADDP and the Legal Counsel.

The remaining enclosures to this memorandum constitute an

alphabetical listing of key figures in the case to date. One person, an

Izvestia correspondent who appears as Enclosure 4 to reference, has

been dropped as peripheral. Enclosures 5, 10, 21, 23 and 24 to this

memorandum are additions to the earlicr list. Negative trace entries

("RI - no record"') are repeated from reference as appropriate. Of the

26 persons and one firm listed in the current enclosures, tracing has been

completed on 19. It is expected that results on the remaining 7 will be

available shortly.

Information from WH/Cuban Operations Branch, prepared in

response to reference, will be available soon and will be included in the

next report.

The New Orleans office of the Domestic Contact Service is

clipping and forwarding pertinent items from the local press.

12320m

contrading and

SECHET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Enclosure l

SUBJECT

Dean Adams ANDREWS, JI.

1.

RI - no

record.

2.

Additional information follows:

The New Orleans States-Item of 3 March 1967 reported

that ANDREWS had said that he did not know whether Glay SHAW and

Clay BERTRAND were the same person.

An article in the New Orleans Times Picayune of 19

April 1967 concerns a $100, 000 suit brought by Dean Adams ANDREWS,

JI., against GARRISON, who had previously indicted ANDREWS for

perjury. ANDREWS claims that he has told GARRISON "that there

was no connection between Clay SHAW and Clay BERTRAND".

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

(

SECRET

SUBJECT

1..

:

Sergio ARCACHA Smith

RI - no record.

No additional information.

SECRET

Enclosure 2

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

Enclosure 3

SUBJECT :

Guy BANISTER

RI: CSCI-3764414, 30 March 1961, reported Subject as a

former FBI member, owner of a detective agency in New Orleans, and a

member of Friends

of Democratic Cuba, Inc.

2.

No new information.

Subject is dead.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

Enclosure 4

SUBJECT :

Leslie Norman BRADLEY (201-727878)

RI: An examination of BRADLEY's 201 filc shows him to be

a soldier of fortune and free-lance pilot who was arrested by the Cuban

G-2 in Havana on 24 May 1960. Held on the Isle of Pines, BRADLEY

collaborated with his captors in all respects. He lured the Nicaraguan

leader, Chester LACAYO, to Cuba so that he could be arrested. BRADLEY

is an unscrupulous adventurer who will do anything for money. After his

release and return to the U.S. he approached the families of several men

still on the Isle of Pines with requests for funds allegedly to be used to

liberate the prisoners. He was briefly considered for employment as a

co-pilot in Project ZRCLIFF and filled out a personal information form,

but the offer of employment was cancelled.

2.

No further information from other sources.

SECHET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECHET

SUBJECT

Edward S. BUTLER

•2.

3.

See Paragraph 7. a.

of reference.

RI traces in progress.

No additional information to date.

Enclosure 5

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Enclosure 6

SUBJECT :

Carlos Jose BRINGUIER

RI: DBA-55777, 25 October 1963, lists BRINGUIER, from

1934, as a businessman, Cuban, living in New Orleans at 501 Adele Street,

Apartment F, and as director of the Cuban Student Directorate for the

New Orleans area.

2.

.. No additional information to date.

SECIET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SEGHET

SUBJECT

Vernon BUNDY

1.

2.

RI - no record.

No further information.

Enclosure 7

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

SHORET

Enclosure 8

SUBJECT

Julio

or Julien BUZNEDO

1.

RI - no record.

No further information.

---

## Page 10

13-00000

(

SUBJECT

1..

2.

SECRET

Enclosure 9

David William FERRIE

RI - no identifiable traces.

No additional substantive information. Subject is dead.

SEGNET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

(

SEGRET

SECHST

Enclosure 10

SUBJECT

:

Alberto FOWLER

1.

2.

3.

See Paragraph 7.b. of reference.

RI traces in progress.

No further information.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SEGNET

SECTET

Enclosure ll

SUBJECT

Manuel GARCIA Gonzalez

1.

2.

RI - no traces.

No further information.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECHET

Enclosure 12

SUBJECT

:

James GARRISON

RI: Tracing continuing.

The following additional information has been

obtained

since

2.

reference:

a.

The New Orleans States-Item of 3 March 1967 stated that

New York radio station WINS said that it had learned from reliable

sources that GARRISON believes that President Kennedy was

assassinated by "a group of plotters directed from Cuba." WINS

reporter Doug Edelson said that the source has access to GARRISON's

files and that, according to the files, "after an abortive CIA invasion

of Cuba, Castro put out an execution order on the President.

b.

A memorandum of 1 May 1967 by Mi. Richard H.

Lansdale, Associate General Counsel, advises that GARRISON

"intends to demand that CIA furnish him with the photograph of Oswald

entering or exiting the Mexico City Embassy."

C.

James Phelan is the author of the lead article in the

Saturday Evening Post of 6 May 1967, headed "A. Plot to Kill Kennedy?

Rush to Judgment in New Orleans". The following key points chiefly

concern GARRISON:

(1) Phelan knew GARRISON in 1963, when he spent

ten days with him, obtaining material for a laudatory piece

called, "The Vice Man Cometh".

(2)

GARRISON and Phelan met in Las Vegas on 5 and

6 March 1967, and Phelan conducted ten hours of interviews.

GARRISON gave Phelan a memorandum of an interview con-

ducted with Perry RUSSO by Andrew J. SCIAMBRA, "a 31-yeax~

old assistant D.A. just a year out of law school" who interviewed

RUSSO for three hours and took copious notes. GARRISON also

gave Phelan a transcript of what RUSSO said four days later,

on

1 March 1967, while under hypnosis.. The SCIAMBRA report

PROMET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

made no mention of a plot among OSWALD, FERRIE, and

SHAW to kill anyone. The 3, 500-word report also made no

reference to a party at FERRIE's apartment. It did not

contain a positive identification of Lee Harvey OSWALD as

"Leon" OSWALD. Shown a picture of Clay SHAW, RUSSO had

not identified him as "BERTRAND". The SCIAMBRA report

specified that RUSSO had seen SHAW only twice. It did not

say that SHAW knew OSWALD.

(3) On 27 February 1967, according to a second

SCIAMBRA report, RUSSO was given sodium pentothal and

then "did make passing reference to the party at which the

plot was discussed", but did so only after prompting by

SCIAMBRA, who wrote, "I then asked him if he could remem

ber any of the details about Clay Bertrand being up in FERRIE's

apartment."

Two days later DI. Esmond FATTER placed

RUSSO under hypnosis (he did so three times in all). When

RUSSO made no mention of a party or plot, FATTER directed

him to see "a picture of FERRIE's apartment and there are

several people in there and there is a white-haired man.

me about it. " RUSSO complied but made no mention of SHAW,

"BERTRAND", or a plot.

FATTER then ordered him to see

this picture: "There will be Bertrand, Ferrie and Oswald and

they are going to discuss a very important matter and there is

another man and girl there and they are talking about assassina-

ting. somebody... Look at it and describe it to me." RUSSO

then told the story that he subsequently gave in testimony.

(5) Phelan advised GARRISON of the profound differences

between the first SCIAMBRA report and the eventual RUSSO

testimony, GARRISON permitted Phelan to question SCIAMBRA

directly, in GARRISON's presence. SCIAMBRA said that he

must have forgotten to include the party and its participants.

When Phelan suggested consulting his original notes, SCIAMBRA

said that he had burned them.

Phelan asked Di. FATTER

where he got the information used in questioning RUSSO under.

hypnosis, and FATTER said it came from GARRISON's office.

2

SSOMET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECHET

STONET

Enclosure 13

SUBJECT

Pascual GONGORA

1.

2.

RI - No record.

No further information.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SECIET

Enclosure 14

SUBJECT

Nerin Emrullah GUN

(201-097525)

RI: The 201, listed above, will be studied. GUN, born

22 February 1920 in Rome, is a suspected CP member who has been

involved in Europe in espionage and falsification of documents.

2.

No other additional information since reference.

SECHET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SEGRET.

SUBJECT :

William GURVICH

1.

2.

RI - No record.

No additional information.

Enclosure 15

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECTEL

SEORET

Enclosure 16

SUBJECT

S. M. KAUFFROTH

1. .

2.

RI - No record.

No further information.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

SECRET

(

Enclosure 17

SUBJECT

1.

SECRET

David F. LEWIS

RI - No record.

No further information.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SECKET

SECRET

Enclosure 18

SUBJECT

Layton Patrick MARTENS

1.

2.

RI - No record.

No further information.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

SEBIET

Enclosure 19

SUBJECT

Mrs. Lillie McMAINES

(i/w Sandra MOFFEIT, enclosure No. 18 of reference)

RI - No record of Sandra MOFFETT. Traces are being run

on Mrs. Lillie McMAINES.

2. The New York Times of 27 April 1967 stated, "A fugitive from

justice complaint -- filed against Mrs. Lillie McMaines -- was dismissed

in Municipal Court Tuesday after she refused to leave Iowa to appear in

court. "

---

## Page 22

13-00000

SECHET

Enclosure 20

SUBJECT

Gordon Duane NOVEL

1.

RI - No record.

2.

the date of reference:

The following additional information has been obtained since

•a.

The New Orleans Times Picayune of 19 April 1967 states

that Gordon Duane NOVEL (see Enclosure 19 of reference), then living

in Columbus, Ohio, was the subject of extradition charges signed

17 April 1967 by Acting Governor C.C. Aycock. The charges concern

conspiracy to burglarize the munitions bunker at Houma, Louisiana,

in 1961. On 18 April 1967 NOVEL stated in an article copyrighted by

the Dallas Daily News that GARRISON is conducting his probe to

further his political career. "The whole GARRISON investigation

thing is fiction, " NOVEL added. "I know the full story from working

as the prosecutor's security chief." GARRISON, however, has said

that NOVEL never worked for him.

NOVEL added,

"I think GARRI-

SON will expose some CIA operations in Louisiana."

b.

The New Orleans States-Item of 25 April 1967 states that

NOVEL !has told a number of friends and intimates he was a CIA

operative and will use this role to battle GARRISON's charges .

if he is returned to New Orleans to face accusations that he burglarized

an oil service company's munitions bunker in nearby Terrebonne

Parish. " Steven PLOTKIN, attorney for NOVEL, refused to confirm

or deny his client's statements. Sergio ARCACHA Smith (see En-

closure 2 of reference) is also accused by GARRISON of helping to

plan the theft of the munitions. The article adds, "To friends and

associates, NOVEL has said that the munitions burglary was no

burglary at all - but a war materials pickup made at the direction

of his CIA contact." He has described the Houma bunker as a CIA

cache for munitions destined for use in the April 1961 invasion at theu

Bay of Pigs. NOVEL has claimed that he worked for CIA in New

Orleans before April 1961. "Part of his job, he contends, was to

operate the Evergreen Advertising Agency as a front for CIA

communications. With funds funneled to him by the CIA, NOVEL

SECRET

---

## Page 23

13-00000

says he prepared special radio commercials used on 300 stations

in the U.S. and Canada. Their cryptographic messages, he claims,

were to alert agents to the invasion date. The commercials adver

tised aluminum Christmas trees, he says, and the key alert code

names were 'Star Christmas Trees' and 'Holiday Trees'. In late

1960, $72,000 worth of radio time was placed by the agency. On the

day the munitions were to be picked up, he says, he was called by his

CIA contact and told to join a group which was ordered to transport

munitions from the bunker to New Orleans. •

• . He says he made

the trip in his own automobile, a Lincoln, and met several people

there all of them allegedly acting for the CIA. He identifies

them as FERRIE, ARCACHA, several Cubans, and another figure in

the case. They loaded the boxes of ordnance on trucks, he continues,

and returned to New Orleans where the explosives were dropped in

three spots -- FERRIE's home, NOVEL's office building, and the

office of.. former FBI agent. • • Guy BANISTER.'(see Enclosure

3 of reference). NOVEL claims the munitions were eventually taken

by boat to Cuba for a diversionary Bay of Pigs operation. GARRISON,

however, says the burglary occurred three months after the Bay of

Pigs. He adds that the Houma bunker was leased by the Schlumberger

Well Services Co. of Houston, Texas.

"Schlumberger officials say

they know nothing of any CIA operations in connection with their

magazine, where oil field service equipment and certain low-yield

explosives are stored."

An AP wire dispatch of 26 April 1967 from New Orleans

adds, "'In Columbus, NOVEL said today that 'the statements that I

worked for the CIA are absolutely incorrect. • •

1961, the Bay of Pigs invasion, are none of anybody's business,

including MI. GARRISON'S. "

3.

RI has no record of the Evergreen Advertising Agency, There

is, however, a record of "Evergreen Enterprise, " listed as "cover for

illegal activities". The pertinent document will be obtained and studied.

SECHET

---

## Page 24

13-00000

SEGRET

SUBJECT :

Carlos QUIROGA

1.: See para. 7c of reference.

2.

RI - traces in progress.

3.

No further information.

SOMET

Enclosure 21

---

## Page 25

13-00000

SECHET

Enclosure 22

\ SUBJECT :

2.

Perry RUSSO

RI - no record.

Additional information appears in Enclosure 12, above.

SECRET

---

## Page 26

13-00000

SECRCT

SUBJECT:

Emilio SANTANA

1.

See para. 7c of reference,

2. .. RI - traces are in progress.

3.:

No further information.

DECIET

Enclosure 23

---

## Page 27

13-00000

(

SEGRET

Enclosure 24

SUBJECT

The SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying

Corporation

There are extensive CIA traces on this company and on

various persons connected with it, but none of this information is

pertinent to the GARRISON investigation.

A report of 20 April 1967 from the New Orleans office

of the FBI states that a confidential source who is a representative

of a well-known news media said on 20 April that Gordon NOVEL

has reportedly stated that he was employed by CIA and that the

Houma burglary was not an actual burglary. He contended that CIA

had an arrangement with the SCHLUMBERGER Co. (see below) to

keep ammunition, bomb casings, and other material in the bunker,

leased by SCHLUMBERGER. He said that he and Sergio ARCACHA

Smith were still employed by CIA. "The source advised that accord-

ing to information developed to date Schlumberger became upset

over the Bay of Pigs invasion and wanted to get out of their contract

with the CIA. Arrangements were made about three months after

the.. invasion for the.. material.. to be taken out by Novel and his

group."

3.

The Domestic Contact Service (DCS) informed CI/R&A

on 27 April 1967 that the New Orleans office of the SCHLUMBERGER

Well Surveying Corporation is a branch of the main office in Houston,

Texas. The company, however, is French-owned. The DCS office

in New Orleans was in touch with Charles A. DOH, district manager

of the New Orleans SCHLUMBERGER office, in order to interview him

about a business trip to Rome in June 1955.

There has been no subse-

quent contact. However, the DCS has been and still is in touch with

SECHET

---

## Page 28

13-00000

SECHET

SCHLUMBERGER and Co. in Houston and subsidiary offices else-

where. The most recent of such contacts occurred on 22 March

1967 in Minneapolis. All contact must be approved by the main

SCHLUMBERGER office. Because of French control, DCS dealings

with the firm have been circumspect.

The Office of Security also advised on 27 April 1967 that

the Belle Chasse Ammunition Depot, a deactivated Navy installation

eight miles from New Orleans. There is no present reason to believe

that the Agency has been associated in any way with the Houma Air

Base bunker.

2

SEGNET

---

## Page 29

13-00000

SEGICT

Enclosure 25

SUBJECT

Clay L. SHAW (201-813493)

1.

reference...

Summary of RI file appears in Enclosure 21 to

2.

The New Orleans States - Item of 2 March 1967

reported the arrest on 1 March of Clay L. SHAW and his release

on bond.

The article described SHAW as "a decorated Army

major in World War Il...."

The New Orleans States - Item of 3 March 1967 said

that SHAW had said that he had never used the name Clay

BERTRAND, that he had never met FERRIE, that he had never

conspired to assassinate the President, and that he had never

known OSWALD.

SECRET

---

## Page 30

13-00000.

SEGRET

SUBJECT

1.

Edward Stewart SUGGS, alias

Jack S. MARTIN

RI - no record.

No further information.

ChE

Enclosure 26

---

## Page 31

13-00000

SECHET

SUBJECT.:

1:

2.

Miguel Silva TORRES

RI - no record.

No further information.

SECHET

Enclosure 27

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SECHST

Enclosure 28

It has been determined that the following components and

individual employces of CIA are currently based in New Orleans

or, as noted separately, were there in late 1963.

1.

New Orleans office of Domestic Contact Service:

Mr. Lloyd A. Ray.

Mr. Hunter Leake.

Miss Dorothy Brandao.

d. Mr. G.D. Geisenheimer.

Miss Gertrude Nagel.

(Miss Jeanne Fernandez was also employed by

this office as of November 1963, the time of the

assassination.)

2.

Office of Personnel:

Mr. William Wood, a recruiter stationed in

Waco, Texas, covered the New Orleans, area in 1963.

3. WH/6:

Mr: William Kent, presently in New Orleans

has as office cover the

4. Office of Security:

Mr. Chester Bolling has!.

cover.

SECRET

---

