# 104-10248-10183

## Page 1

104-10248-10183.

SECURITY INFORMATION

RETURN TO C11

Background Use Only

L.DO Not Reproduce

Chief, Security Diviadon

Chiel, Physical Seourfly Branch

Security Violation - Exposed Clasulfied Materiel

43872

& Hovember 1959

On 27 October 1953 at 7810 Pole, during & Bocurty Inspection 01

lioom 2,20, "Quarters Bye, Guard Ial. Bryant found & TOP SECRI docu

sent on the dask as igned to fr. Arthur 8. Turner.

The material vas Iden

Alfied as "Progress Raport," IS Document 175160. It was on top of several

anolassifled toohnleal gasines and its folder bore no classification

marking. light Seourity Offioar Ray C. Colton responded to the telephone

eall fron the Guard 0: Mee and secured the material in his safe at 8115

Polo, after leaving an explanatory note in the area.

2. On 28 October 1953 Ar.

of this Branch, accou

pandod by Hr. Bernard P, Doran, Seourity Officer,

DDP/TSS, Investigated

the volation.

During the course of the investigation Mr. Arthur S.

Turner, Profest Engleer,

Deputy hivision Uniel, an

9. Ar. Turner advised that he was custodian of the document on the

date in que tian.

He stated that, after placing all classifiod material

In a safe at about 510u P.M., he had occasion to search for another doou-

sent and that apparently he had placed the instant document on the pile

of magasines while naking such search. He stated that the room was va-

cant when he departed at about 5:10 P.N.

4o Mr. Christ advised that he was responsible for conducting the

Staff Duty Offleer Inspection of Ross 2426 on the date In question, Ha

stated that he had conducted his Inspection but that apparently he had

overlosked the Instant document, explaining that a considerable anount

of unclasstfied material was in the rom and on the desk. He stated that

the room was vacant when he departed at about 5:35 PoM.

Er. Driscoll advised that the document was overelasalfled and

that, in his opinim, Its exposure would jeopardise no personnel, plane

or operations. He explained that the material had not been prepared

by or for the Ageney, but that it was a copy of a private Industry re

port containing Information in which CIl was Interested.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

---

## Page 2

DOTLAINFCAJATION

Baokgron

MD0 NO.

SIors

Coib N, 5506

GOAFIDEN TAL

SECURITY, INFORMATION

A... :-.

17.

---

