# 104-10193-10131

## Page 1

104-10193-10131

SECRET

FEN 63

PRIOR TO FILING

ROUTING ANO RECORO SHEET

IONS

7O: ACTION BRANCH

Fill In Sect.

wook. Detach back

2.

flap and formard lo

Destroy front cover shoot.

unloss 1t

rocords sirnificant action

takon.or

conments. requiring presorvation.

FROM:

Is filo no. and title shorn aro not

propor.

insort propor file no.

below

and forward documont to RID/AN.

PHOFER PILE NO.

RID/

MICROFILMEO

Str 6 1503

DOC. MICRO. SER

3

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

PILL IN BECTION L OR DACH. IN APPROPERATE

COMMENTS

TH/4 REGISTRY

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED

POEMAROTO:

INETIALE

3I/& REGISTRY

2.

1 JUN 1961

JUN 196}

Jh. COPY DETACHED

Eut

2-3!

eper riction

sitin persper. 3,

03

03

tiles.

fi'l

3-4: flare trace subject,

adire WAve iny rizilt,

and riguend them

provide

i use contempletty

5 Jun 6l

Ridi Inded purce

fire deir place.

done bein de/feein

10.

12.

11D/1N

R 10/11/S

16

AL

Vitt

BELL-1028 (OLT-JOYS)

carded-per 13 Gamet,.

des spoiler.

129 AUG 1963

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILHEO

carding

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER I PRIMARY CODED

als.

11 -

LOUTHENT DA

120-1.4

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 01598

a-live lit

Z/Д

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

maluf, i ravistar

PUFO

MICROELLMEO

Str 61503

DOC. MICAO. DEN.

PROCESSING

MANALD POR INDIRITE

NO INTERINE POURED

ORIO QUALINEE

CAR RIDGE INCY 1:48

AASTRACT

MIRCH 1208

ALCON

$415+4D

Chief er base cid

WARIAD ROCHINES

Action iquuireds de parairapla three

On 13:50 icl divr-03 ruported that he talied with subject, who arrived

In Mimi on 9 la

anil fron Cuba. ine following intumation was disclosed in the

Interview:

"said he had worked in the undircround in Cuba and was closely

associated a

Te iN in December 1900 wher that Survice bejan to 0rc312€

meer the diration of a voung nan who rujortetly was trainod in Portin lot

che purpose d uranizin that service vi thin cuba.

sarstand further.

that aisle working with the in he travelled to Oriente Province with

this young armiser" for the purpose of miting the revolucionary troups

active in tia: sinvince.

BRXS0i3ra said that he was in chire of colluctin; information rom

saurces

in pine col dio and passing. It to the i/T overntors who then forwarde

it to

Prive

After the canturo of i Rulin1, chluf o: the underground in Cuba,

the secretar of the new chiaf, and maintalned this position

until 17 april wen the mass arrests and the round-up of several of has

fia him to no into hiding. lie ought refuge in the Frenen

in darera, end altbough this carsy des not have the richt to trant

asplum, he tiss

rmitt.d to remain in biding chore as a quest of the embassy.

ihan he sas ario to leave for Portin, the rerch Ambassador personally

escorted hin is the plane.

BRIsis selieves that the undergrond in cuba has veen virtually.

put out of essiness by the miolesale arrests throughout the country.

said the sitiscion of the meroits of the under road no have not been

arrested is sesperate, as they ive no place to hide.

DUNSO i sold d.L1-83 he was vers interestei in working for the causo

1a any war gaine.

three languaes (stanish, Manch 322 Besen

also podds to desorts (cuban and french) as his rabide a debeleano

CATE TIrED:

DATE DISPAICHED

listribution:

"CADES REFERENCE TO

25 lay ól

DISPATCH SYMBOL. AND MUTABER

VEGA- 1548

MEARUUARTERS FLE NUMBER

CLASSISICATION

SECRET

19-190-18

---

## Page 3

PAOS TVO

A'OT-83 stated in his ruport of the interview that he could arrange

future .contuct with HRINSCiWIG.

Hase WAVi files contain no reference to Subject. Sefore further

contact with Subject is made,

Base WAfE would appreciate any information

Headquarturs files might contain on bRUiSCisiG.

END CE LASSAGE

15.98

19-126-18

---

## Page 4

14-00000

https://asc-app-01:7002/jtk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number:

JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10193-10134

CADRE Ref ID: C00559172

Pub Date:

05/16/1961

Pages:

1

C00559172

104-10193-10134

SECRET

70 of 105

1/12/2015 1:54 PM

---

## Page 5

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE

TO

FROM:

CONFi

INFO:

Min of liBi

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

8324

16 May 2961

JHAVE

RISCOCOOL BETA

BELL 15

COP, ADOP/A, WH, BELL S/C

PRIORITY HAVI

INFO

DEJP BOOM

RATS: WAVE 6218 (IN 1904) "

BITE 0574 (OUT 9221)49

APPROVED PROVIDED NO U.S. PERSONNEL INVOLVED.

(KNID OF MESSAGE)

16:24768.22

16-76

#OUTING

MAY 16

22002. 61

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 9251

OUT 9251

CITE DIXT BETR

0595

0595•

KI Comment:

requested approval to mount small Boat o

OCH to exfiltrate Internal coordinator of MRI

03

Moor

COOROINATINO ORPICE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO ORDICEN

Copy Ato.

3/PV

---

