# 104-10192-10038

## Page 1

104-10192-10038

run tlen..

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

27

SEGRET

ROUTING

5. 1

6

FROM:": Ji MAVE

ACTION

INFO

IW

DCI,- D/DCI, DOP, ADDR, 500 %,

CA: 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, C1/16 2

CI/PS, F1,

FI/D, F1/ INT •6,

RI/AN, WH 8, WH/C 12, VR, FILE, CS/RF.

R

S

E C R

86848562

6 APR 8252Z. 05

IN 38699

DIR

INFO

LANT BARR

LOITE WAVE $363

INTEL TYPIC

& SUPDATA: AMING-2 IN ANOT DO-1317 OF 31

MARCH WITH PARA I BASED ON

LETTER FROM NORBERTO MARTINEZ SANTISO OF PUERTO RICO, CLOSE FRIEND

OF AMING-2. SOURCE PRESENT DISCUSSION MENTIONED PARA 2. RID:

INDEX. FILED &EDAJ6Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

R

I CUBA

C SUSJ: POSSIBLE LIMINENT ATTEMPT BY ORLANDO SOSCH AVILA OF THE MIRR

P

TO SOMB A CUBAN REFINERY

DOX: 29-38 MARCH 1965.

FIDA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (5 APRIL 1965) .

UFG 6976

MY COMMENT:

RELEASING 1)

_ WIVE

HH/BEG.

Miscon

S.M. DELANE

12

8

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

6 APRIL 0537265

• SECRET

TOCS QB-315/01108-65

XX| ROUTINE

BASED ON:

i PRIORITY

UFG-6976

NP/ AMOT

LIAISON: *

GROUPI

RHCLUDED FROM AUTOMA

Coconu baitin arbtrod on fee

DECLASSIFICATION

Y

'-2 1389

139):

7920

---

## Page 2

_CLASSIFILO MESSAGE

"SEGRET

ROUING

том,

ACTION

INFO

PAGE 2 IN 38699

SOURCE: A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE

TECHNQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL

REPORTS SINCE 1961.

iN COMMENT.

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

TOCS

ROUTINI

BASED ONG

LAISON

SECRET:

ABELARA:BIGATION

REPROLUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE: → PROMISITED.

I TRONT

Copy Na

---

## Page 3

14-00000

BEG B0-09

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTELLED OSSEY

ROUTINE

.. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCT

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CUSA

29-32 819CH 1965

TDCSDB-315/01108-65

DISTR 6 APRIL 1965

- SUBJECT

POSSIELE IMMINENT ATTEMPT BY ORLANDO BUSCH OF THE MIRR

TO BOMB A CUBAN REFINERY

PLACE &

CATE ACO.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (5 APRIL 1965)

REF

iN j8699

SOURCE

AND

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6976

APPRAISAL:

A MESSER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION

COLLELTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

— 1. AS F 29 MARCH 1965, THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACICA REVELUCIONARIA MIRR, INSURRECTICHAL MOVEMENT FOR

REVOLUTIONIZY RECOVER:), LED BY CALANDO BOSCH AVILÀ, MAO COLLECTED

¿EE, EASE IN PUERTO RICO ARO PLANNEO TO BO:13 AI UNIDENTIFIED SUGAR

REFINERY IN SUSA. AFTER THE MIRA CARRIES CUT INIS GOERATION,

IT PLANS TO CALL A PRESS CONFERENCE AND ANNOUNCE THE FORBATION OF

A GOVERMMENT IN ARMS WHICH WILL POSSIBLY BE REPRESENTED BY BOSCH

HIMSELF• SUCH A GOVERMMENT IS TO SE RECCENIZED BY THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC.

2.. ON EÜ "ÜRCH, VIRGIL!O PEREZ TOLD FORMER CUSiR: PRESIDENT

Thie maseral mentalas taformaine alectins the NalanAl Deleano of the L'alted Slates withla the meaning of the laplonage Lama Tie

IB, U.S.C. SOrA 863 DEI TYA, She UBDIMINION ON reTeiALINS of WhICh IS ADy mANDIr lo an UnAUIDOriZed DerSOn la DOBIDlEN Dy laT

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLIED DISSEM

STATE/INE DIA

ARTO, 'ACSI

NAYY

AId

ICS

SECDEE

F31, CUSTOMS, 8'8$53 PATROL, USCE, 16 NS, TREASURY, AD/CI. 2, CIAVAMCC

OCE OR 00

EtO

---

## Page 4

CONTENUED CiSSEM

IN

CONFIDENTIAL

TOOS

TDCSD3-515/01108-65

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS. THAT BOSCH WAS ASCUT TO ATTEMPT ANOTHER

OPERATION IN CUBA AND THAT, ACCORDING TO INFORMATION IN HIS POSSESSION;

BOSCH HAS $20, D$SO SEING HELO FOR HIM IN A NIAMS BANK. THIS MONEY

•WAS DONATO BY A WEALTHY CUSAN WHO HAS GIVEN THE, KEY TO THE SAFETY.

DEPOSIT BOX CONTAINING THE FUNDS TO THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE BANK.

ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BLEN MADE FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT TO TURN THE FUNDS

OVER TO BOSCH AS SOON AS THE REFINERY IS SUMBED.

• 3. (FIELD COMMENT: FOR PREVIOUS REPORTING ON BOSCH'S PLANS

TO "BLOW UP OIL TANKS. IN HABANA", SEE DOSES 315/548052-65,

DATED 24 FEBRUARY 19650)

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, CUNKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, LENS, BORDER PATRIL, AND USCG. (ALSO

SEN

AUTO 1-44 (201

" PAGE 2

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

---

