# 104-10428-10209

## Page 1

1104-70428-10209-

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Had for Can inte

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

BY LIAISON

Date:

To:

FroM:

Subject:

June 6, 1977

Director of Central Intelligence

Clarence M. Kelley, Director

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

SECRET

Classified by 5182

Exempt from GDS,

Categories

2 and 3

Date of Declassification, Indefinite

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligence

Re:

SSCRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

Re:

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligence

Thad previously furnished enis infor-

nation to CIO's during other meetings.

was also questioned about a

1961 assassi

nation attempt directed at Castro in Cuba,

During the initial interview of I

lon

April 9, 1977. he made available a photographl

→ to depict

Jee Harvey Oswald in attendance at an Alpha 66 meeting

in Dallas, Texas, in 1963.

Another photograoh depicted

Veciana as a speaker at this neeting.

Jhad

made this information available to CIO's at previous

meetings.

In the last segment of videotaping in Mexico,

was confronted with enlarged photographs of

the alleged Alpha 66 meeting and was asked to point out

the individual similar in description to Oswald, after

which the videotaping was concluded.. The whole taping

process lasted approximately 90 minutes and consumed

almost three reels of videotape. (S)

Photographs made available by

examined by FBI agents familiar vith the Oswald Investl-

gation and it was determined that Lee Harvey Oswald is

not depicted in these photographs.

It is noted that

SECRET

:. 3 -

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligence

Re:

Jack Anderson's column in the Washington Post on May 6,

1977, claims that Antonio Veciana has testified before

the House Assassinations Committee that he was in con-

tact with Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas, Texas, in August,

1963. (U)

This information is also being furnished to the

Secretary of State, the Assistant to the President for

National Security Affairs, and the Attorney General l

SECRET

T09070

---

