# 104-10326-10074

## Page 1

104-10326-10074|

MIENO? 95-2374342

SENSIND:

SECRET

RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE:

1

ADV: CE/w/MB (11027)

ACTION: CE/W/MB (773)

FILE,

CE/W,

DDO (4/W)

INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, COMPT,

95 1374342

ASP

PAGE 001

TOR:

1611022 AUG 95

SECRE T 1610592 AUG 95 STAFF

CITE

14144 (FALANTZ ACTING)

TO:

PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR :

LIMIT

/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W

SLUGS:- WINTEL RYBAT CODEL.

SUBJECT:

(BRIEFING PAPER AND OSWALD FILES

REF:

DIRECTOR 404798 95 1366840 '

TEXT :

1.

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI OR COMMENT

SHAL

STATION IS FAXING TO HOS A COPY OF BRIEFING PAPER

FOR CODEL SHELBY, REVISED IN ACCORD WITH SUGGESTIONS OF T

REFERENCE. UNLESS ADDITIONAL REVISTONS ARE REQUIRED, THIS

IO CARRY AWAY.

APPRECIATE SUMMARY INFORMATION REGARDING

HISTORICAL CONVERSATION WITH

TABOUT FILES ON

*<LEE HARVEY OSWALD. > ACOS BELIEVES HE DID SEE THE CABLE

AT TIME OF RECEIPT STATION WAS VERY BUSY!

JAND IN ACCORD WITH "READ AND BURN" BOLICY, A COPY-WAS-NOT

L RETAINED. A RETRANSMISSION IS_ NOT NECESSARY.

ALSO, IT MAY

NOT BE" NECESSARY FOR HOS TO PURSUE THE MATTER FURTHER,

SINCE SUMMARY INFORMATION_WILL PROBABLY SUFFICE.

ADDITIONALLY (ACOS HAS LEARNED THAT YESTERDAY THE ?

IMBASSADOR SUBMITTED A DIPLOMATIC NOTE TOl

WHICH IS AN OFFICIAL REQUEST FOR

FRP:

,?,

STAFF

LIMITO, MDSX,

N 1374342

14144

ODPD,

*AVAILABLE TO THE AUTHOR OF A RECENT BOOK ON THE< KENNEDY>

* ASSASSINATION

4.5 STATION WILL ADVISE HOS OF IMPRESSIONS OF CODEL

SHELBY AT CONCLUSION OF VISIT. THANKS FOR

PROMPT ANDY

THOUGHTFUL, SUPPORT IN PREPARATIONS FOR THIS VISITE

NONE DECL DADR_DRV HUM 4=82.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

(MARNO)

END OF

PAGE :

2

-r---------

95-1374342

MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

---

