# 104-10116-10223

## Page 1

104-10116-10223

TID INFORMATION COUNCIL OF TIL AMERICAS, INC. (INCA)

1.

INCA is an anti-communist propaganda organization

with madquartors in Now Orleans, that disscminatos 105119h

and loreign language propaganda tapos and tilms on a wla

wide basis, conducts public forums of an extremist

political nature, etc.

The organizational impetus and funds

apparently come from wealthy New Orleans figures including

Di. Alton OCISNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC, and Willard l.

ROBERISON. In recent vears tunds have been supplied by the

SCHICK SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY. An INCA letterhead listiug all

the ulricors and officials has been requested from JWAVE,

which has had some casual correspondence with the organtz.

tion concurning Miss Juanita CASTRO.

There is no indication of any Agency relationshiy

with INCA prior to January 1965 when INCA sponsored Miss

CASTRO's appearance in New Orleans.

At that time

Anu functioned as Miss CASTRO's business manager was

invoived with INCA officials in planning the New Orleans

Visht Where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner

sponsored vy INCA. The dinner, which was attended by civic

Icaders and representatives of

all news media, took place

suortly aiter Miss CASTRO'S defection and there was

considerable interest in her appearance.

INCA was particulurly

interested since it had distributed hundreds of English

and Spanish language tapes containing her stutements when

she was surfaced in Mexico. In October 1960 INCA again

requested that Miss CASTRO

appear as & guust speaker in

majoe American cities in connection with the release of

the INCA motion picture production "HITLEK IN HAVANA".

Fullowing various reviews of the film, JMWAVi decided

the

iilm woulu probably become controversial and it would be

inadvisault to pernit. Miss CASTRO to accept the invitation.

Because of INCA's extremist political orientation, JMWAVE

las wanted to avoid any more involvement between Miss CASTRO

24 aud INCA and L

in his capacity as business

manaked,

is med to prevent this cuTbaly

contack betweenl

Executie Vice-President of INCA, since Miss CASTRO's 19us

sew Orlcaus trip.

This took place recently when BUTLER was

in lie area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" 111m.

3. According to JMWAVE, INCA officials have never

Inuicuted in any way that they are aware ut Agency l

contact with Agency officers.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

S70807

rUTher lisgraph 7 (A) o1 reference memorandum)

In January 1965 Subject's organization (INCA), sponsored"

• New Urleans appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly after

her arrival in the US.

INCA had a particular interest in

Miss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contail-

, Miss CASTRO's declarations when she was

surfaced in

Mlexico.241

who is Miss CASTRO's business manager,

handled the plaming and arrangements for the New Orleans

1a1t 24th INCA UtticiaLsa

The only subsequent contact

and Edward BUTLER occurred when

bILEh was rectntly in Miami promoting the INCA Illin on

"CASTRO-HITLER

in HATANA"

See Attachment 2 for a sunmary.

of the INCA organization.

---

