# 104-10172-10297

## Page 1

104-10172-10297

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

R101 le

drei mean a liter

COMMENTS

TO

3.

Adas 1

28

3-4i The's is inhat ricte.

shes used trall "gating

Lee is tely" with the

JAS.

RL

HE-1/CE

COPY

Eopy route to see piece

Shape

12.

19

1.

87.

18.

10.

$ 10158

Iris COURE

LACOL!

1879 #

Bin.

14 A4A59 0123001

HO TURN TO GIA

Background Use On

Do Not Reproduce

C.

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, k7

Chief, SR

FROM

SANCT

Chior of scarion,

station/Choratlera/PICA/GrAcorty/SCLUSH Sortet

Efforta to istablish Consete with hoster Representatives

None - for Inforsation

22007100

Estra

23

16. 192458 3959

B9+15 908.947889

BOOLA: 850 102 5654 CART

1, We are sending under separate cover a copy of en latessy disputel

on the above subject written by Costille at the request of ste Counselor

of embassy, he have never attemptod to keep our contact sica celud under

cover and have periodically informed the Counselor of the status of this

He has approred and even encouraged thie contact and has suggested

bringing in other lebrosy officials so might strike up priesdahips nita

Sovlet officials other than Colub.

2o At the most recent Colub Costille lunch on 3 August, Gelub agala

ninted at an estrangesent between hiaself and his wito, mo is still in the

Sovlet Union.

He asked Costille If Costille could Mr hir sp nica a Firniah

girl for some evening.

Arrangeienta have been made for a nicht on the town

this Saturday with Costille and date and Golub and a trusted Finnish girl

we are cortain will dre Golub a run for his money. All details dil be in

the next pouch. The following infomation came out during this lunch. Golub

1s & Comunist Party merber having this honor bestowed upon his at the front

during World Her II. He also mentioned that practically all Soriet dirlocate

were CP members.

Golub was torr. in kharkow but apent most of his proterld

War Il Iife In Kier. He corsiders Kiev to be the most beautiful city la the

Soviet Union aad 18 extremely proud of his Ukrainian backgrocat, Galub sos

claims that for his natt post he rould prefer New Tork City. (This 18 &

revorgal, an Golub ap to this point has told Costille that he bould not luke

an assigment in the U.S, because of the distance fron Moscow.) hhen asked

why New York ather than the Soviet Eabagay in lashington, he answered that

in New York he could be his own boss while in Washington he would be toc much

under the thumb of the Ambassador. He did not elaborate on is statecent.

However, he remarked that if assigned to the U.S. he rould insist on fu

tensive English language tralring IE Hoscow.

We sould: Iike to elaborate on Golub's "estrangenent" roe his allo,

since this appears to be ebout his only vulnerability.

hesitation a number of tires has flatly stated thät he 1s glad his afe 19

on vacation in the Scriet Union ind that he has been enjoying lis freedor.

At the last lunch Costille asked him wen his wife was roturning.. He aravered

that be did not know and also that he did not care and intracod that she mas

havirig a good tine in Moscor "probably with some lover." Howerer, lie know

that he hears from his nise because Golub has montioned she alreaded the U. S.

exhibition in Moscow. She also phoned him on his birthday, 13 Aarusk, fron

some vacatior spot on the Riack Sea. Colub has never Intinated that she sould

not be returning to Helainkt following her vacation.

Colub has almaye made

these derogatory remarks about his wife rather Joldngly and never out of sy

despondency. Ho sees to think these rerarks will establish lia as "one of

Cha toya."

14e August 1959

Enclosure - Ulapatch 1.0.c.

utscribution

= SIl k/encl

Venel

MB: H49M6 0913

Latele

4/BR

= * 88

---

