# 104-10169-10143

## Page 1

104-10169-10143

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ISE OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEE.

SUBJECT: (Optionall

AETADLE/1 Chance Meeting with Petr DERYABIN

FROM.

Chief, SR/cI

TO: (Offer designation, room amber, and

Anitalisat

DATE

DANCER:

WTIAL

FORWARDED

• AELASIES

201

OrIgin 931- 201-2946855

MECENTO

Na

DATE

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SR/CI I2 Report #25

12 January 1962

¿SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

13.

1A.

SEGRET

13.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEO

Đ90 1921.6 - 831894

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

ER/CI I2 $25

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECI: AFLADLE/1 Chance Meeting with Petr DERYABIR

SA officer assigned to the ARIADLE®

has reported that on Saturday, 6 Jauunry 1902, he and one. of the

Becurity Officera accompanied AFIADLS/1 to Ray's Barber Shop In

Vienne,

Upon leaving the barber shop at

about 1730 hours, they accidentally met Petr DERYABIN who vas

walking in the opposite direction. DERYABIN recOguized ABIADLE/1

Instantly, and the two shook bands and greeted each other enthusi

matically. DERYABIN inquired about ARIADLE/1'8 family, and ASLADLE/1

maid that they were well and were with him. AFTADLE/1 asked

DERYARIN If he had married, to which DERYABIN replied that be had,

and that as of the day before yesterday he vas the proud father of

& son. DERSHBIN presented a cigar to each of the others.

031

the street corner vas not an appropriate place to talk. The othere

pereed, and they parted.

reports that during the encounter, no ane

addressed or referred to anyone by name, hence neither DERYABIN

OT ABIADLE/1 are avare of the other's current name of precise

EDHARD W. KNOWLES

Chiof, SRiCI

Di tribution:

(originial - 201-294, 855

1. - Chief, SR

Chief, SR/CT

DC/CI

• 202-228,022 (DEPYASIN)

2 = RECORD COF&-IZ Report Chrono (RI #14-6-496/4)

SECRET.

---

