# 104-10145-10374

## Page 1

104-10145-10374

SECRET

156 4 78 2573

24 July 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Meeting with HSCA on Mexican Interviews

1.

Niles Gooding, George Joannides, Rodger Gabrielson,

Bill Sturbitts, Marty Hawkins and Norbert Shepanek met with

Messrs. Blakey

and Cornwell at 0730 Saturday morning.

The

purpose was to discuss activity in Mexico City planned by

HSCA.

2. As usual, it is difficult to plan how to approach

questions as limited information

is provided by the HSCA

They had

told us of their interest in ten persons

in Mexico City. A quick check of Agency records had broken

them out into

separate groups and in the discussion with

the HSCA representatives, one of these groups was subject

to yet further distinctions.

3. The first group consisted of the following:

a .

Calvillo. - An unwitting co-optee, it

had been agreed previously that Calvillo would

not

be asked

about the activity he engaged in that,

unknown to him, was at CIA initiative.

A former contract agent

of CIA.

He is a former employee--as distinguished

from "agent" in the full sense of the word--and

could be interviewed as a former employee.

Two men by the names of Palomares and

FloreS,

neither of whom has had an operational

association with the Agency.

4.

The second group is more complex, consisting of

persons in whom the HSCA would be interested because of

their private activities without reference to Agency

connections, which all of them had. HSCA has spoken

other persons in Mexico City, and had independent informa-

tion about them of interest to their investigation; they

incorest to

to

21949

SECRET

E IMPDET CL BV.L3IYC

---

## Page 2

SECRET

(HSCA) felt they could simply approach them directly with-

out reference to

any Agency association. They are as

follows:

The two who worked for CIA, LIONION and

operated photographic surveillance

posts.

It was

agreed that arrangements would be

made whereby they could be interviewed by an

electronic means, in adjoining but separated

rooms.

One of them may

not be available as he

may be in Spain.

b.

Two persons who reside in Mexico City,

who formerly were employees in the Cuban Embassy,

These would be

interviewed as HSCA had done with other former

employees of

the Cuban Embassy:

to ascertain

what, if anything, came to their attention about

Cuban attitudes towards and reaction to the

assassination of President Kennedy, etc.

so happens, both were penetrations of the Cuban

Embassy.

Again, HSCA people took the position

they would not mention any possible Agency

connection or activity. They declined to have

these persons interviewed under the same arrange-

ments that would be used with two support agents,

whose only interest is that they worked for ClA.

C.

nano u.s. citizens, Mrs. June Cobb Sharr

(believed to be in Mexico City) and a Mr. WIChtrICh.

Both are private citizens who are reported to have

information of interest to the HSCA,

in their

private capacity.

HSCA proposes +o

intonrich

these person any mention dee plea rechel

5.

In essence, we have an anomal

arranged to have

support agents (whose

HSCA

is their

work for the Agency) int

The referen

phonic equipment:

Two agents whose na

even

more sensitive (penetration agent

interviewed directly 'because they work

I parcetration

diplomatic installation (and not becau

CIA) with no reference to be made to t

aquito (splaces)

2

in the copy thet

515798

SECRET

---

## Page 3

.....

i.....

SECRET

with CIA (HSCA declining to include them in the arrangement

for the first two agents above). And two U.S. citizens whose

work with CIA is of no interest to HSCA (although the reasons

for interviewing them were not revealed to us) will be inter-

viewed without reference to their CIA connection.

In the

eyes of HSCA, while they recognize a proprietary relation-

ship on the part of CIA with the two support agents (operated

photographic surveillance posts), they do not recognize such

a relationship with the others,

as HSCA would have inter-

viewed them anyway for unrelated reasons (i.e., unrelated

to CIA connections).

6.

While HSCA has had to postpone their trip until

around

7 August (the Mexican Government requested a delay),.

the basic problem remains.

There is more time to get

some feel for what is involved, but in essence, it is the

position of HSCA that since they would have interviewed

the four persons without reference to a CIA connection)

they will do so anyway, but have solemnly undertaken to

not raise any question

about CIA connections or activities.

Behin

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

Orig - OLC/Subj •

1 - OLC/Chrono

1 - Niles Gooding/IG Staff

1

1

1

- George Joannides/OLC

- Rodger Gabrielson/OLC

- Bill Sturbitts/LA Division

- Marty Hawkins/LA Division

• 1 - Norbert Shepanek/PCS/ LOC

3

SECRET

---

