# 104-10106-10390

## Page 1

104-10106-10390

• OGC SUBJECT ITKIN, HERE

" MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

15

CMINITIALS • SEEN BY

iG: Lawrence R. Houston

„it: General Counsel

i: 6111

*E: 19 May 1970

•BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

.. 50

_ PER

INF:

OGC Z

SECRET

• 3

LJ INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

_ NO INDEX•

• RETURN TO -

BRANCH

CO FILE RID.

(classification)

(date and time filed)

i9 22 36zha70

folital

(roforence numberts

CITE DIRECTOR

15-1

, 5 (LONDON)

035476

11911

RYBAT KEYWAY

-70-1

REE:

1613 (IN 085506)

ONLY PARAT IS POR USE WITH EMERINGES, REMANDER iS FOR STATION

1.

HERBERT ITKIN WAS A VOLUNTARY INFORMANT TO JKLANCE'

STARTING 1962 AND CONTINUING AFTER 1965. HERERORIED IHRQUGH

STAFF AGENLUNDER UNOEFICIAD COVER IN NEW YORK. THIS

ACKNOWLEDGED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO FEDERAL DISTRICT COURT

IN NEW YORK, NOT NEW YORK SUPREME COURI. ITKIN WAS NOT

CONTROLLED AGENT, AND JKLANCE HAD NOTHING WHATSOEVER TO

DO WITH TRAVEL TO ENGLAND IN 1965 OR ANY OTHER TIME.

2.

ITKIN HAS COMPLICATED LEGAL PROBLEMS INVOLVING CUSTODY

OF WIFE'S CHILDREN, WHO UNDER COURT ORDER WERE NOT SUPPOSED

TO LEAVE NEW YORK JURISDICTION. AS RESULT OF HER TRAVEL TO

ENGLAND IN 1965 WITH CHILDREN SHE LOST CUSTODY TO HER FIRST

HUSAND. ITKIN, THEREFORE, IS CLAIMING TRAVEL WAS UNDER

DIRECTION JKLANCE IN ORDER TO INFLUENCE NEW YORK STATE COURT

TO RESTORE CUSTODY OF CHILDREN - continued on page two

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

GROUP T

Excluded tram mistomalle

downgroding end

3/1J

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NO.

C

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

LE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

_ PER

240

FILE, VR.

(classitication)

INDEX

] NO INDEX

E FILE IN CS FILE NO. -

RETUAN TO

BRANCH

FILE RID

(olitel

(pical

(Jato and time filed)

(rolorence numbor)

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR

035÷76

TO WIFE. ITKIN SUPPORTS CLAIM BY DETAILED STORY, WHICH ON CAREFUL T

INVESTIGATION WE CAN DEMONSTRATE TO BE FABRICATION.

3. BACKGROUND OF SITUATION EXTREMELY COMPLICATED.

FRANKLIN I. TINKHAM, WHO PERSONALLY HANDLING CASE WITH

DEPÄRTMENT OF JUSTICE AND VARIOUS INTERESTED PARTIES IN NEW

YORK, LEAVING FOR MUNICH THURSDAY EVENING, 21 MAY, IWA 704,

ARRIVING LONDON, 8:10 A.M., 22 MAY. CAN DELAY DEPARTURE FOR

MUNICH TO LUFTHANSA 225, LEAVING LONDON 7:45 P.M., 22 MAY, IF

DETAILED BRIEFING WANTED POR STITION ONLY AND NOT (SMORANGES.

4. PLEASE INERM SOONEST.

DDP

RELEASING OFFICER:

Petra

fisain

EA/DOP

EUR DIVISION

Lawrence R. Houston

General Counsel

¡COORDINATING OFFICERS

* GROUP. T

SECRET

aluded from autosatie

springreding and:

estaballicallon

DEPROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICETS PROHIBISED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NO.

---

