# 104-10181-10071

## Page 1

104-10181-10071

DATE

418

84

SEPT 60

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM :

15-1

ACTIONS C/E 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

satellar

ROVING

SEPT 15 1835Z 60

ROUTINE

IN 13175

DỊR INFO ICITER 218600

RYBAT

215-20

01,24

ACCORDING JAGUAR

_ GERMANY RECEIVED

RETURN 7O CIA

Backg our Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REQUEST FROM

"A'ERICAN SECURITY AUTHORITIES® GERMANY FOR COVERAGE MAIL SENT TO

BROTHER AND WIFE VLADIMIR SLOBODA, RECENT PUBLICIZED DEFECTORS

BOTH OF WHOM RESIDENT UK AND BRITISH SUBJS®

20. ASSUNE AS KUBARK

THAS RECEIVED NO REQUEST ALONG THESE

LINES THAT REQUEST ORIGINATED WITH US ARMY OFFICIALS GERMANY.

?4

AS BOTH BROTHER AND WIFE HAVE COMPLETELY CLEAN RECORDS

FROM L

[JAGUAR)NOT IN POSITION REQUEST MAIL INTERCEPT WITHOUT STRONGEST

JUSTIFICATION FOR OPS REASONS. EACH PERMISSION THIS TYPE REQUIRES

JAPPROVAL AT HIGH LEVEL. (JAGUAR) WILL ENDEAVOR THRU

24

] CONTACTS TO ASK MRS. SLOBODA IF SHE HAS RECEIVED

MAIL FROU HUSBAND

BUT WILL NOT-PUSH FURTHER IF SHE NOT COOPERATiVE.

3. REQUEST COMMENT ON BACKGROUND SLOBODA CASE FOR PASSAGE

- 21.

(JAGUARJAS WELL AS ANY INDICATION KUBARK HAS OF INVOLVEMENT UK

---_-

:.

: 19-33

SECREL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PAGE 2

20-1

369

IN.

1355

INTERESTS (THROUGH BROTER OR WIFE): IF THERE IS CLEAR AND IMPORTANT

INTEREST GUAR WILLING ASSIST TO FÜLLEST BUT BASED ON PRESENT

KNOWLEDGE THEY UNABLE JUSTIFY REQUEST TO

LAGUAR REPLYING PARA ONE REQUEST THRUE CHANNELS GERMANY.

END OF MESSAGE

i=48.0.92

let hate in a to is i do a.

PEr 6Si 43 2e

SCRET

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFACE IS PROHIBITEO,

Elpt

---

