# 104-10438-10187

## Page 1

104-10438-10187

SECRET 241830Z AUG 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13477

TO:

PRIORITY DOD/ HEADQUARTERS.

TO: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSB (FRENCH) FROM HENNESSEY

W NINTEL

SUBJ: ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF : HENNESSEY FRENCH TELECON, 23

AUGUST 1976, SAME

SUBJECT

THIS IS IO CONFIRM REFERENCED TELECON.

ON 23 AUGUST 1976,

WE RECEIVED A CALL FROM

OWNER OFI

NORTH MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, AND

MIAMI, FLORIDA, IN

WHICH HE

INDICATED THAI HE HAD HAD A VISIT ON

THE SAME DATE BY FRANK

STURG ISA.

STURG IS HAD. TOLD MORGAN THAT HE HAD JUST RETURNED TO

MIAMI FROM NEW YORX CITY, WHERE HE HAD BEEN INTERVIEHED FOR

THE TOMORROW SHOW" ON NBC.

(THIS INTERVIEW WAS SUPPOSED TO

HAVE BEEN TELEVISED AT BIDD HOURS, 2A AUGUST, BUT WAS NOI.)

SILRGIS SAID THAT WHILE IN NEW YORK HE HAD STAYED THE

WEEKEND ( PRESUMABLY 21 AND 22 ALGUST) WITH MARITA LORENZ,

WHO STURGIS SOMETIME AGO PUBLICLY. CLAINED TO HAVE HIRED TO

POISON CLAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL CASTRO.

LORENZ GAVE STURGIS

A BOOK CONIAINING CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

THAT SHE SAID SHE HAD

STOLEN FROM THE ALBANIAN MISSION IN NEW. YORK.

SHOWN MACHINE COPIES OF THREE OR FOLR PAGES OF THIS MATERIAL,

WHICH CONSISTED OF FIVE DIGIT NUMERICAL GROUPS IN SERIES ACROSS

THE PAGES.

EACH OF THE GROUPS HAD A SINGLE LINE DRAWN THROUGH

AS IF A DECODING OPERAIION HAD BEEN PERFORMED.

STURGIS TOLD

THAT HE HAS DISTRIBUTED PAGES OF THE BOOK IN VARIOUS

PLACES IN MIAMI FOR SAFEKEEPING UNTIL HE CAN TURN ALL OF IT

A CALL TO BAKER'S STAFF ON 23 ALGUSI.

A CALL TO BAKER'S START ON 2S AUGUSHES SURGES TOLARY HAD PLACED

SILRGIS TOLD

LORENZ HAD GIVEN HIM THE BOOX BECAUSE ONE OF HER MAFIA CONTACIS

YORK TRIED TO BLACMAIL HER (FOR SOME REASON UNKNOWN TO

MORGAN OR ORSELVES), AND SUBSEQUENTLY BEAI HER SEVERELY AND

THREATENED HER LIFE..

AS A RESULI, SHE NO LONGER WANTED ANY

PARI. OF IHE CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL IN QUESTION.

STURGIS

-PROMISED TO GET

IT INTO OFFICIAL U.S. GOVERNMENT HANDS.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

D

-082139

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ЭРЕ

o 0351 D(02139

JOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Cirele if eppropriete) 130 CHARACTERS)

FORM

GETTER

Instruerions for Divisions ond Stalls:

1. Fill in ond Sign on lie. 11.

2. Use bock of for for!

(odditional comments.

DAY

MONTH

YLAR

i ABLE

JISSATEM

MEMO

REPORT

•ROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS)

Dco/MiAmi - 13477

24 Ана 76

TO/RECIPIENT (J0 CHARACTERS)

DaD/MiAmi

Das/HeadQuARTeRs

:LASS MHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY 110 CHARACTERS)

DDOY

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

A/BANiAN CRYPTOgRAtiC MATeRiAL

TYPE

DATE

OF

OF

REVIEW

REVIEW

DAY!

MONTH

Determinations:

A.

Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto.

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

DEFER DEOSION TO 110 CHARACTERS| COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

lEW

CLAss

YEA

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED 140 CHARACTERSI

FOIA

81 82 Đ3

84 B5 B6 B7C

BUMPAN KI

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3.. Information pertaining to a liaison

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods

motion pere in to oute nothi

8, Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.:

Name

of CIA employee

10:

File number

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

REMARKS (IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) (NO CHARACTERS)

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/EDLE REVIEWING OFFICER

E.0. 12356

FOLA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3) :

(b) (3).

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(5)(1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3) -

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(3) (1)

(s) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS (160 CHARACTERS)

HSCA Box 2

;16

FRANK StuRgis

---

