# 104-10193-10041

## Page 1

104-10193-10041

SUNSET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1ả may 8968

MEMORAndUM fOR THE RECCRO

SUBJECT

: Meetlag sich lag. Nanuel Ray

PARTICIPANTS: lag. Manuel Ray

Ernesto Betascourt

Rogello Cisneros

03

1. Ray did'not return to. Hashington until early morning on Friday.

12 May 1961. He called me at 0700 from the alrport. He was unable

to fis a definite bour for us so ges together due to la lact that he was

expocling an appointroni mila a person he did sot samé some time

during the morning. He latar Called à number of times from the Hotel

Ambassador to advise me thal he still bad had no word os his aypolni-

ment.

As.1145, Mr. Betancoart called to say shas he was with Ray

and 'Eugenio" (Rojollo Claperos) and could we set together. 'I aug-

fosted they drive out to the Clarendon Hotel Court on Wilson Boulevard

where I barl takena room for holding our meeting. They arelved in

wont to the narby Hogale festaurant in l180z Boclerard for lunch

bofore we got down to the busines of the prospectua.

2. Durtag lunch me did not discuss the plas but i did sako the op

portunity lo strena in a most merlous way the noed for absolute secrecy

concerning our dicansions today and any future discussions or deval-

opments which might lace place la she future with respect to our relatlan

ablp. All agrood us tàe nood for sighi security.

Ja. After lunch me drove to the Hotel Court and from approximately

1330 antll 1730, wa discussed the prospoctus. Veing Mr. Barnes out-

It=s so a general guldo, litressed le imporiance al Doing able lo present

19/0

---

## Page 2

SECRET

•I=

to the proper paople al the carilest possible time a carefully thougar.

out plan ol action which would set forts clearly the objeciinas - what

tbe project hoped lo achieve: a statement of lbe problem: the strengtar

of the Castro regine following le ill-fated invadion; the status of the

underground and is mornle and capabillies; the extent of Internal

eupport for and dieconten! →1tb tha regime, eic., sie.

I also spoke of tbe nnod for describing the kind of activities

which tbe Ray organiration planed to engage in and the assets and

capabilitian which tbey have or can acquire lo do the job.: The seed for

explaining lbe reiationship and coordinatiob of the plan wich the Revoli-

Blonary Council was discussod at some lengeb.

3. I muggasted that be include in the pian an itemiiasion of the kinda

of support which ho would expoct ua to supply immediately do well no the

kind and quantily of support which rould be required of us as the project

developed.

6. I alao nuggested that the plas Include their viewa on how U.. S.

Ilalsun and coordination could beat be worked out; how funde would be

funneled into the projaci; what commo and other trainlag would be 58-

quired; whether U, 6, "real estato! would be noaded, oic.

7. Ray ostlined some of his thoughts regarding hia proposed plan

of actlon According to bir ll contamnulates action in three broad flelds:

(a) Underground activity - principally sabotage -- in the

urbaa arasa.

(b) Gradual buildup - Pargoly through clasdestine inilltra-

tions of small bodios of men - di guerrilla forces in mountala-

ous and defenslble areas.

(e) A psychological warlare carpalen within Cuba and abroad

almed at dincrediting Castro and at lbe same timo providing the

people of Cuba somethlag lo figar lor.

It is Pay's interiion to depend almost entirely on maritime opora-

tloan for the Inflitiation of personnel and instariel into Cuba. Mo also

rules out of his plas the creatioa of another Invasion army bus does con-

template le tralaing d groupa al porsapa up to 150 men in olaer (riondiy .

---

## Page 3

.: :

countrlos of Souls America Do cessionod Venauela de a possibllity)

and asid he mould explore the josibility of basing marilime operallons

in nos-U. 5. ports..

% Ray said some messe, older khan Swan laland, must be lound

for reaching the Cubas population by radio broadcasts. He spoke of

Bho poosibility ol abort vare briadcano from Venosuela and asilisa-

dion of a commercial ation in dilamt which he unterolands con bo

clearly beard is Cuba.

10. Ray poko of the denircability of stimulaling the organisation

of "Pro-Iruo Cúbas Nevolutiozary' student groups ln sany countries

of Laila America (he said a nicossiul organiaation has been formed

da Puerto Ricol and of sundíns quallied reprosentativos so those Lalia

Anerican countrios where these ls soviet diplomalic representalion to

contact student and labor grosas and leaders in an effort to predest to

them the true picture of la sorry diale of students, workers, and

Intellectuale la Castro's Cuba.

11. Ray la alao Interested in lao poasibility of putting out a "Nows

Letter" under MRP sponsorabia which would diocusa various aspects of

the Cuban ploture and set forth p'ann lor Cuba alter the fall of Caetro.

He thought duch a newe letter could do a long way sowarde correcting

mataken Impressions amony serican university professors and in

other cirelas as lo the true nature of lso Castro regime. He pointed

so the rocent letter from 61 Harvard professoro wüich was recoally

pablishod in the N. Y. Timea as a "horriblo example' as 80 how mia.

Informed even university proissanta are en premoni day Cubs.

12. When the discussiona gos around to the need los conducting

operations at least 'undor the umbralla"' of the Revolutiorary Council,

and the nood for obtalalag De. Miro's concurrence before the U.s.

woald be able lo support say operallon, le was obvioue that neither

laj. Ray nor Mir, Betancourt boide a bijb Improssion of tho Council.

Both feel that there is a strong possibillly thal the close public

Identlication of the Cousell will the recest Invasion may wall save

diocredited tha Council to such as exten that le cormando so support.

or reapaci within Cuba. :

For the sake of argumeni the; were silling to concode that the

poillical advantajen of mistaicis; sno Council for the purpose of sorclas

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEeT

unlty of the varlous extie aroupe may well outwelgh lie othar obvious

shoricominie. However, both leel, and Air. Belancours was quite

emphalie on thia point, phas lo Council an a body la sos capable al

diroctio, clandostine actlons againal Castro and as a maltor of fact

1a opposed lo any lurthor olforts al overthrowing Cassro by sabotage

and other subversive actions pince they are coinplesaly "nold" on

aba toonio tha! Castro can only be remorad by direct U.S. military

sellon and therefore a continuation of Cuhan underground actinities

can only result la needless and futile loos of lUe. In the lact of thin

atileude, Ray said he does not expect to recelve much encouragemant

for hla plan from the Councll, although be le fairly confldent that

Dr. Miro's approval can eventually be obtained.

Me. Botancourt thoushe that a workable solution micht be found

to thelr problern ll tha Council would agree to concorn loall exclusively

with (a) the currons leak of willying the opposition, and (o) plannins lor

¡to luturo assumptlon of power as lhe provisloual goverament. Under

this arrangomont, operatione almed at she dowalall al Castro could be

entrusted to those leaders and groupo (ouch as the liMP, MRA, and

possibly tho MDC) which have both the asseto and the will to do the

Jobi, Sir. Ray thought that li mighi be lessible to create an operationa

planning board or command amon; the groups with demonatraled asseta

and thus aroid unnocessary duplication and confuslon and mako possible

overall planning. & vaa obvious, horover, thas ha monid prefer to act

autonomously in the axecution of his program.

Mr. Ray

was very critical of Artime and clalmed he was in possession

of sullicient "facts" lo convince bina lhat Artime, la collusion with ele-

menta ol the camps, were plaaniay lo aliminate the MiRP and its leadera

from the picture, when ine invasion succoried. l caid i "bao="

that Artime was baing financially supported by wealthy ex-Basistianos

of eba milani area.

13. Ray binsed ai various times that the MRP ruy al some point

lind isell laced with the recosaity of withurawing from las Council and

golng it alona. He sayo that the Council la composed of "good ren" but

¡boy have no asseta or significant follorings and 'have nothiag to aller

the people ol Cuba' and aithough the proclamation ol the Council, as

Inally draltad, was a 20od one the "progreasiva' aspocto of the proclam.

ation wore forced on the Council by the Americans snd do nol represen:

the true feelinge of the majority of the Council members. Me said the

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Cuban peopie aro no! Ikely to want to rink their lives on the basio.ol

pironisco rudo by to prosent membership of the Couscil. Ke leels

•thal accoptance of the Councl! would be Improved by adalag to da,

inenbership two or three more people whose namos tould be signl-

ficant and meaningíal to tbe Cuban people. Ho did not paine any

pecule candidatee.

14.

Air. Ray los me read a 11 or l4 page report which ho had

Just received from the MRP: coordinator in Cuba (Reinol Consales)

which palnied a dreary pléture of condulions la Cuba since the fallure

of the invasion, mus critical of the inclusion of Batiellaos and "ninon

bonitos" in the Invasion force; conveyed the strong feeling that the

Cabans had been botrayed by the Americans; and indicaled that while

the MRP organisation was ofill pretty nues intact phymically, mormie

was almest completoly shalierod, Sir, limy said he would provida mo

= sanitised copy (there vere some operatlonal and personal detaile)

ol the report lor our information.

15.. In vlow of this report from within Cuba, Mir. Ray unid that

he will winh to defor submitting hia plan for our coasiderallos unill

de lo ablo to socalve word from Cuba concerning the capabililies,

wIllingoes and leagibllity of carryimy ous some ol the sctivities he

Mio In nolnd. He said ll to uselesa to suboril a programs of action il

the human elements to carry 1l out aro lacking ar completely demoral

snod. He tbought he might be able to present bla prospectus within

approsimataly son days. He said naturally he will not zive the pappie

Inalde any Indicaton that he has boen discussing a plan of action with

16. I urgod Hay to consider subroitting al lenal a preluniaaty aud

admiredly tentative prospectus at this time based on the assumptlon

Chat bis ansets are itill latact and will be willing to coopirate in order

that le may receive early considerallos. Howerer, he stuci to b18

belial that this would nos be practicable and rolterated tile need for

prior ovaluntion of the strength and morale of his following.

17. Ray asked concerning the detainees at McAllen, Texas, and

wondered if they have been releasad.. He was told that as far as !.

know thay are still undes deteatlon.

He said tir. Goodwin had taken

their samos and promised to look Into the malter. N°. Betascourt

L:

---

## Page 6

EYES FLY

said he would chock directly with Mr. Goodwin re their status..

18. Iloried Mr. Ray and/or Mr. Betascourt to call me over

Rse weekend ln case either should was to discus the matter further.

I had the loelins that Mr. Betancourt was personally In lavor of sub-

milling now a plan covering "Short term" noeds of thair organimation

and is may bo that such a paper will be submited after he has an

opportunily so talk with Me. Ray li prlvale.

03

JAN/ dia

Distzlbution::

Original & 3 - A/DDP/A

1 - C/ WHD

1T - AC/WH/A & circulate

1 - Maniel Ray 201

BYE?

---

