# 104-10256-10403

## Page 1

(104-10256-10403],

SENR WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND SITOM

~ASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

• SECRET

OFFICIAL HOUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

TO

1

3

DUID

5

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

He astackied; Fys. There is an

victe up an douget attackies to this

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

ron yo 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FROM:

INCIDENT KEPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

Administratro - Intenal Bee Only

DATE 14 October 1973

TIME_

1115

NAME

Mitchell WerBell

GRADE N/A

OFFICE

N/A

INCIDENT Call requesting to speak

with Mr. Colby

_TIME

1115

_PLACE Powder Spring

Georgia

tel (404) 943-3533

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: The Agency Operator advised that Subject was

calling requesting to speak to Mr. Colby.

Subject stated that he had just finished talking to "Air Chief

Marshall, Dawnee," Bangkok, Thailand and had some information that

he wanted to pass to Mr. Colby. Subject was informed that the

Director was not available and that the undersigned would take a

message and insure that the Director was informed of his call.

Subject declined SDO's invitation to leave a message and requested

that the "Thai Desk" be informed of his call and then terminated

the call.

Files in SR&CD reflect that Subject is generally categorized as a

con man, unscrupulous, wheeler-deeler and a promoter of grandiose

schemes.

1506-73-1195 Aomes

11421, С/Інай ОСок.

DHSTECTSZOIFILTN

(201-25-991011

deside day ined seton by dinio on soni

CASE CLOSI

ACTION TAKEN: Briefed

DCI/SS, and OPS CIR/DO. Cuather

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD SEC (PTOS

COPY: C/PHY. SD

COPY: C/PSD

ILE: B5B/P275. Sl

ODY: DCI

FORM

1798

::19:17094:

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS,

EDITIONS

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

Administrative - Internal Use Only

5/1.

---

