# 104-10433-10067

## Page 1

104-10433-10067

:5 Moù.6a1

in the Dier we sor

Le Martin isther kInd dro, born IS Surary 1923 en itlanta, Georgia,

has been

described a3

the most probinent leader of tho civil rights movereit

in tho is. lie 1s the President of the Sorthorn Caridtian Leadership Conference,

(süic), and is a recipient of the lobel Peace Price.

2. in Subject's lany actir sics in the civil rights novenänt, he has

sought and relled upon the advice of various individuals, Including the

Iollowing:

B.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date & mautilas

a PASTA GETS BAR POOR ,

---

## Page 2

13-00000

3.

4o ThovOctober 1964 issus of Via love, en Itaiion veekly magazine

on: ed by the Italian Corunist Party, (PCI), carried on article entitled

"ihat He rogrocs Ask of the Ficsiderl" mich Vir move cinined Subject wrote

for its exclusive publication.: Tho article concerned the civil rights

question in the US and did not appear to bo directed specifically to a

Communist audience. Despite the date of 14s publication the article appeared to

navo been minton sono months before.

5.' An article appearing in the Washlazton Post on 1 November 196h stated

tran Subjec: isa planing a vialt to the Soviet Union. lo reportedly had been

---

## Page 3

13-00000

invited to tho iSsa, but Rov. Ralph dRille, spokesian for Subject,

refused to comment on the sourco of the invitation.

Based on: . 201-763965 (KING)

The following documents, held in

sore not revieved:

and

wich contain information cosential to Subjectig file,

boch appear to have pages nissing.

The above menorandun was hased exclusively on that information contained in

Subjectes very incoplote 201 filo. No attenpo vas made to lulator

incarnate locate or consolidate other Information concerning

Subjecte

5 November 1967

---

## Page 4

13-00000

EX-01653

Martin Lither

1. Kartin iuther kim Jio, born 15 January 1927 in Atlanta, Georgia,

has been described as the nost prozinent leader of the civil rights movement

in the is. Fe is the President of the Southern Chridtian Leadership Conference,

(scie), and is a recipient of the robel Peace prize.

2. In Subject's lany activitiea in the civil rights movenant, he has.

sought and relied upon the advice of various individuals

Bo

Co.

D

Orenesiaha

^ APPROVES ABS FEASE

Dato

(43

---

## Page 5

13-00000

3..

Subject met trich

verious leaders of the lualian Comunist Parit and of the Italien Socizisi Pari

15 Septeraber 1964 in Pone, (Subjesi bas in Roue on that date as part of a

tour oi lestern Buripes) He allegadly dislgssed with these Italian

politicims ine demonstrations against segregavion in the US wich yere to

be orgenized in Italy during the following zonths.

1o Thelcetober 1964 issua of Vie love, en Italian weekly magazine

orzed by she Italian lasaunist Party, (POI), carried an article entitleà

"hai Vie Negroza Ask of the Fresidenti mica lie Nuove clained Subject mrote

Son dis exclusive publication, The article concerned the civii rights

question in tha is end ciò soi appear io be ciracted srecifically to a

Germanist audience, Despite, che cate o lis publication the article appeared io

lave been written sone zonths before.

5u in article appeziing in the reshiasion Post on l Noveaber 1964 süaied

unai suojeci vas plening a vigiù to the Soriet Union. He reportealy hai been

---

## Page 6

13-00000

invited to the USSR, but Reve Ralph ABERNATHI, spokesman for Subject,

refused to cocment on the source oi the invitation.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL:

EX-0165

• SUCiNOT:

KliG, Martin L'ither

a Che Z01à

Levisa:!.

ill do Stauley D.

Io Martin inther kliû Jr., born 15 January 1929 in Atlanta, Georgia,

has been described as the most probinent leader of tho civil rights moverent

in the üs. Le is the Presidert of the Southern Chridtian Leadership Conference,

(süiC), and is, a recipient of the lobel Peace Prize.

2. In Suoject's many activities in the civil rights novemänt, he has

sought and relied upon the advice of various individuals, Including the :

Following:

A. Bayard RUSTIN Jenber of the Young Cornunist League from 1936 to

1941, socretary to Subject fron 1755 to 1960, Secretary of the

SCLE in 1962, inack and organizer of the March on Washinztonts 1965,

RUSTIN attended the Sixteenth National Convention of the CPUSA

in I957 as a non-Cormunist observer, and was especially active

in advising Subject on formulating a position on Viet Nan in 1965-66a

B. Clarence JONES-General Counsel to the Ghandi Society for Human

Rignts; and former member of the Labor Youth Leagued!

& Communist

front.

#465901

C.:: Stanley IEVISO! ideological Comunist end suspacted secret menber

of the CPÜSAs

D.

Marry NACiTEL-Executive Vice President of the Ghandi society for

INFID tan Rights; ember of the diational Lawyers Guild, a Corunist.

Jownaraded to

by authority of 287257970

Iront.

date 06059

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON RETAILS

F2. m000tGE1r-260520

TAL FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

43

....

---

## Page 8

13-00000

COMMENT

Do marry DelarOME-leabor of the louri Countat Icaguo before

coning into proninence as an entertainer.

3. iccording to a sourco dio is considered unreliable, Subject met wiüht

various leaders of the Italian Communist Party and of the Itallan Socialist Party 0z

Lô Suptember 1964 in Pone. (Subject was in Fone on that dato as part of a

tour of Western Eurbpe. He allegedly disugssed with these Italial

politicians the denonstrations against segregation in the US which yere to

be organized in Italy during the following months.

4. TheVOctober 1964 issur of Vie Muove, an Italian weekly magazine

owr.ed by the Italian Connunist Party, (PCI), carried an article entitled

"hat ie Negroes Ask of the President" nich Vic luove clained Subject wrote

for its exclusive publication. The article concerned the civil rights

question iz the US and did not appear to be directed specifically to a

Comunist audience. Despite, the date of lis publication the article appeared to

hare been written sond months before.

5.' An article appearing in the Hashington Post on 4 Noverber 1964 stated

that Subject ras planning

a visit to the Soviet Union, He reportedly had been

CONFIBENTIAL

---

## Page 9

13-00000

MaNTAL

irvited to the ISSR, but Rev. Ralph ADERNATil, spokesman for Subject,

refused to conment on the source of the invitation.

§ased on: .

201-760965

201-275804

(KING) L

(RUSTIN)

DF3-17372

DB3 8516/

CSCI-315, 02051-64

OIRT-6783

The following documents, held in RID/SD, were not reviewed:

TS-188608

IS-188606A

TS-788613

D5B-17872 and DBB-17192, nich contain information essential to Subjectis file,

both appear to have pages missing-

The above memorandum was based exclusively on that information contained in

Subject's very incomplete 201 filo. No attenut vas made to lala 0033

locate or consolidate other Information concerning

Subject.

5 November 1967

CONROENTIAL

---

