# 104-10164-10320

## Page 1

104-10164-10320

INFORMATION HEPORT WINFORMA TON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1. DAC

COUNTRY Cuba

6040795-7

CONTROLLED DISSEY

Care

REPORT NO.

C503-3/657,597

31 October 1963

SUWECT

Soliciting of Funds by the

DATE DISTIL

Moviniento Insurreccional de

Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR) NO. PAGES

for the Purchase of Two P-51'g

or Similar Aircraft

REPERENCES

2

DATE OF 25 September 1963

INFO

PLACE &

Unired States, Miami

DATE ACO. (10 October 1965)

FELD REPORT NO.

UFG-3869

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINTIVE APPRAIIAL DE CONTACT IS TENTATIVA

A member of a group of Cuban émigrés trained in the rech-

niques of information collection.

The group has provided

useful reports for over two years.

The following is the gist of a circular letter which Dr.

Orlando Bosch Avila, general coordinator of the Movimiento

Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR, In-

surrectional Movement of Revolutionary Recovery), le send

ing to various Cuban exiles, requesting their financial

asslstance for the purchase of aircraft:

25 September 1963

Esteemed compatriot:

As you must have learned by the press, our organ

Leation

has begun bombine the industrial and military

targets of the Castro regime, and we belleve that 1f

we have the opportunity and necessary resources we

111 be able to continue our softening-up attacke for

• period of 90 to 120 days, supplemented by inciltra-

, consequently we

"; and of the coming year.

911:

She do the can at we one not Tike to 21 2.

the disgrace of the other organizations of eccomplimh-

il: - 1ng an

attack every 10 or 12 montha because we belleve

chat chin 1a in detriment to our cause rather chan in

Ita benefit.

, be successful, in accordance

niti

We believe

"'s chat the boate, flring againut the coasta, ate., ate.

0%.!

*: 12: 11;

it tire gone

CONTROLLED DISSEM

ĐIA

NHICINGLANY

MIA

CANCSO i

TREASURY

U91A

119:

Crit Ni hate

R9A(0)1

26441

MAS/GI

GAS/MOLL

BA3 101

родий то." у

MADE

190/

NF (AMOS -2)

GNDH-3/657,597

COMMONAL

4, 8L 3,CA L, DODS 1,

PIONE

one it is se

---

