# 104-10186-10247

## Page 1

104-10186-10247

3

INFORMATION REPORT WINFORMATTOR-REPORTS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO YOKEIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBjECT loctor Pascual GALLO Portioles

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CSCI-316/01210-84

16 September 1964

2

REFERENCES

NO. * 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

D.

C.

DATE ACOSeptember 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNE-ALUATED INPORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEPINITIVE, APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS

officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguartors Comments

The following report is one of a sertes containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the rocords of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

tho individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Sourco said that he had heard the name Hector Pascual GALLO

oute as nonsen 2,317,5,8,f,gC1-316/01208-64), but

Headquarters Comments

1.

in a report dated 2 Docember

1960,

said that Rector GALLO Porticlles, n Cuban Diplomat In

Asuncion, was born in Habana in 1924.

2. A report dated 27 February 1961, from & usually reliable

stated that Hector Pascual GALLO Portieles had taken

over Cuban affairs in Costa Rica when the Cuban government

withdrew Ambassador Juan Jose FUXA Saenz on 31 December 1960.

GALLO left Costa Rica by air on 26 January 1961 for Mexico and

on 12 February 1961, returned to Costa Rica and presented

himself to the Costa Rican Forein Ministry as Charge d'

Affaires of the Cuban Embassy.

An untested informant told

source that GALLO and his helper, Wilfredo GONZALEZ Ramieres,

were leaving for llabana on 13 March 1961 and that both

3.

A usually reliable source learned from a sourc

that Hector GALLO Porticles,

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TAIR

I NSA

TAXE

TOcR

antonion

STATE

I DIA

T ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

Noto: fraid distribution indicated by "E')

INFORM

LIONE

"NAVY

CINCSO.#

_FBL 3

I&NS

ORT

FU/SA/EOB 4/M8/S/R

NHY SA/MOB

- HE/WADR

WILIGAIR

-wH/SA/CI-

+WA7A45-1

#I/SA 7 (1),

2. GIARLA

BIE

ArdWASH

MAHON REPORTS

ILX - 1681

* NO PROJECT (AYMUO/1)

CSCI- 310/01210-84

+ REDLAN

ME: 1 (3), CI 4, RID 1

C1/R00

5/BR

---

## Page 2

39259

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

CSCI -316/01210-64

formerly icond secretary of that Embassy, la now residing in

Honduras

unoftical capacity and probably working for the

cuban Intullronce Sotice. This report was dated 20 July 1961.

1. In a report dated 1a August 1961. 1t rag reporied that Hector

Pascual CALlO Portioles was

presently the Cuban Charge d'Affaires

In Mexico Clty. He and his aife were renting an apartment there.

5.

6.

In a rejort dated 10 July 1962, a usually reliable source said he

saw lector Pascual GALLO Portiles in Santlago, Chile.

GALLO 18

Socrolario Adscripto of the Cuban Embassy 1n La Paz, Bolivia.

GALLO

had escorted thirty one Bolivian students from La Paz to Arica to

catch a Cuban plane

which transported then from Arica to Santiago,

Rio de Janeiro, and Habana.

An untested source, in a report dated 21 September 1962, wrote the

following character sketch on Hector GALLO Portleles, First

Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in La Paz:

GALLO, who arrived in Bolivia In March 1962, gives the

Impression of being & capable and dynamic worker, with a nervous

personality.

He is the person in charge of givink scholarships

It in said that this job was created by Fidel CASTRO

In answer to a request by the Avanzada Universitarla (University

group of the offictal government party).

He is seen frequently

at the Univorsity of La Pas and has many friends

amons

the

GALLO dues not spend much time with the other Cuban

diplomats. He is in frequent contact with the leaders of the

Communist Youth, and spends a good deal of time In the labor

and other undon organizations.

He Is Also in contact with the

Trotskyist organizations, and makes many trips into the interlor

ol bolivia which usually do not last more than six days.

GALLO

meets the Cuban diplomatic couriers on their arrival in la Paz,

and it 1s said that his correspondence is sent separately irom

the regular Embaisy correspondence to Cuba. He is the most

active of the Caban diplo: its in La Paz.

7: On 9 March 1903, accoruing to a usually reliable source, llector GALLO

Portieles, a Cuban Diplomat, arrived in Mexico from Santiago, Chile,

accompanied by his wife and

three children.

On 11 March 1963, GALLO

and his family departed Mexico for labana.

8.

An untested source who was a former member of the Cuban Ministry of

Foreign Relatious

following information on Hector

Pascual GALLO Portiles In a report dated 28 January 1963:

GALLO Is the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in La Paz,

Bolivia.

Ile received his appointment because his brother is an

important Communist in the Castro regime. GALLO may have

been a

member of the Foreign Service

before the revolution. He is not

very intelligent.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

