# 104-10106-10068

## Page 1

104-10106-10068

Background Use Oniy

•Do Not Reproduce

I1 January 1977

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION

Division Security Officer

03

FROM

SUBJECT

SE/X/LA

Appearance. As. Witness. In Behalf of the

United States Government

REFERENCE : USA V. Gerald P. Henming, Et Al. (76-371-CR-CA) * •

I. During the period of my employment as a Special Agent at the

Drug Enforcement Administration May 1974 - Jan 1977), I conducted an

interview of Gerald Patrick Herming (DPOB 1 March 1937, at Los Angeles,

California) on 23 May 1975 at DEA Headquarters in Washington, D.C.

My report concerning that interview has become part of the case file

in USA v. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al., Case Number 76-371-CR-CA,

Southern District of Florida, Miami, Florida.

r.

2. Upon my entrance on duty in SE Division on 5 January 1977,

I orally informed the Division Security Officer, Billy Hix; about

the information in paragraph 1 above. Mr. Hix asked me to submit

the information in writing as soon as I was settled in the Division.

On 7 January 1977, however, Special,Agent Robert Fredericks

telephonically contacted L

P DC/SE/X/LA, and told her that

the United States Attornery®3 Southern District of Florida, had

requested that I appear at the U.S. Courthouse, Miami, Florida on

10 January 1977 to confer with the Assistant United States Attorney,

Karen L. Atkinson, regarding my appearance as a witness in behalf of the

U.S. Government in the trial of Gerald P. Hemning.

During the afternoon of 7 January 1977 I conferred with Mr. Hix

who advised me to contact the Office of the General Counsel. I talked

to Mr. Edmund Cohen who advised me to get in touch with the Office of

Security, External Activities Branch (OS/EAB). I completed an

Outside Activity Approval Request (Form 879), obtained the concurrence

Of DC/SE, Mr. John Stein, and submitted the Form 879 to OS/EAB.

OS/EAB sent me to Central Cover Staff (Mr. Blandford) and then to the

Office of the General Counsel. After discussions with Mr. Cohen, I called

---

## Page 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

I DO INO REprOduce

S/A Fredericks in Miami at Mr. Cohen's suggestion. S/A Fredericks was

not available. Mr. Cohen then advised me to return to my office and

he would contact me with further instructions. Mr. Cohen retained

the Form 879. Subsequently, Mr. Cohen advised me that I should travel

to Miami as requested and that EIA would reimburse me for expenses

connected with my activities in behalf of the U.S. Government. He

further advised me that being in an overt cover status I should state,

if asked under oath, that I am currently a CIA employee.

....

4.

On 10 January 1977 I traveled to Miami where I met and

conferred wuy dosa kaini Ackinson and DEA S/A Robert Fredericks.

They informed me that Gerald P. Hemming's case had been severed and

his trial would not begin on l1 January. AUSA Atkinson told me she

wanted me as a rebuttal witness if Gerald P. Hemming presented the

defense that he had been working at the direction of DEA. She said

they would not call me until and unless that defense was presented.

She also said that she felt that any attempt to question me concerning

my current place of employment was irrelevent and she would object to

any such line of questioning.

She said she would only ask me where

I was employed at the time I interviewed Hemming. I returned to

Washington D.C. the same day.

---

## Page 3

TO

THRU:

RETURN TO GIA

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

Background Use Only

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUESTDO Not Reproduce

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2• COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

DATE

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

7 Jan 77

(Staff, division or office head and security officer.

where assigned)

SE Division Security Officor

NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print or

COMPONENT

ROOM NO. AND BLDG.

PHONE

FROM:

15555

12/3

IDO/sE

HQ 5529

5953

DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY

CONCERNED. DATES, LOCALE, ETC. (Reles to HR 20-7 before completing)

APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS

03

On 7 January 1977 at approx. 130 hrs. I as iriomed by my supervisor,

that she had been telephorically contacted by a lr. Fredericks of DiA in iami,

Florida (Ofc 305-591-4902, Fes 305-595-1698) and told that Del wants me to travel

to Miami to attend a pre-trial conference on Monday 10 January in order to prepare

for possible appearance as a witress for the Dos against Gerald Patrick tauru.

I consulted with the SE Division Security Officer who advised me to contact the

OGC. At approx. 1150 hrs this date i talked to the OGC who advised me to contact

the Office of Security, Exterral Activities 3ranch.

2. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS

MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILI, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

I was a CIA employee from Jan 69 to May 74 prior to transferrina to DEA. I was

under covor at that time. I have not yet been put under cover since my new 2OD

(3J an77) •

03

STENATURE OF REQUESTING EMPLOYEE

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE ÓF STAFF. DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD

ComeR: 7/1176

711176 SoluTt

FOR COMPIETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

19 Janearg1977

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BREN (GRUNTED, BENESE)

FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 879

3=75

EDITION:

31pl

CLASSIFY AS APPROFRIATE

---

## Page 4

OPERATIONAL CONTACT REPORT

Project Title

Asset ID

Code Name

EMBRYO

none

none

1.

DETAILS OF CONTACT

Date

Place

Participants

Cover

23 May

1975

Washington, D.C.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

& Sa

N/A

03

• RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Orly

L Do Not Reproduce

2 .

NEXT

N/A

MEETING

3. ALTERNATE MEETING

N/A

INTELLIGENCE REPORTING

On May 23, 1975 Gerald Patrick HEMMING walked in to

DIug Enforcement Administration Headquarters, 1405 I Street,

N.w., Washington,.D.c, 20537 and asked to see

Mr. Incier

Conein, who is

the Acting Chier, Special Operations

and Field

support staff." HEMMING: told CONEIN that Mitchell Livingston

WERBELL III had given

HEMMING CONEIN's name as a DEA official

to whon HEMMING could talk. HEMMING told CONEIN that he wanted

to provide information on diug trafficking between Colombia

and. Florida. CONEIN asked SA

to. conduct a

debriefing of HEMMING since SA

was working on the

collection of narcotic intelligence concerning. Colombia and

Florida.

• HEMMING

stated that he is presently employed at TECPOLE

Security, 801 Madrid, Suite 105,. Coral Gables, Florida, telephore

305-443-9681 01 305-446-8379. (HEMMING stated he believed

that 443-9681 was being tapped, he did not say who he believed

was tapping the

telephone)

He stated that he has extensive

experience in paramilitary air operations, having served in

CASTRO's rebel army and then with several anti-Castro groups

operating from Florida in the 1960's.

He claimed extensive

experience in all types of air operations.

3/P0

---

## Page 5

-2=

RETURNiO CIA

Background Use Only

A Do Not Reproduce

In August: 1974 HEMMING was approached by Armando BOLET,

Cuban veteran of the

2506 Brigade whom HEMMING had worked

with in anti-Castro activities, and by John VARESE (nfi),

to help them organize and run air smuggling operations for

Thomas and. William O'DONNEL.

The O'DONNEL brothers, using

the cover of their construction firm in the ft. Lauderdale

area, (AMERICAN EASTERN DEVELOPMENT) were involved in maritime

smuggling of marijuana from Colombia to Florida.

During an

unspecified four

years (probably 1970-74) the O'DONNEL's had

averaged approximately six-seven loads of marijuana per year

at three-four tons for each

loads smuggled into Florida.

Of these. 24-28 loads of marijuana

they had to jettison into

the sea only five loads for security reasons.

The rest of the

loads had been successfully delivered into Florida.

The source of the marijuana in Colombia is DI. Arturo

ROMANO-Fedullo of Barranquilla;

colombia.

Besides.running

the

smuggling foI ROMANO, .

William O'DONNEL handles the laundering

of the money accumulated by drug trafficking through banks

in. Grand Cayman, Switzerland, and Curacao.

¿Armando BOLET convinced the O'DONNEL's that they should

add air snuggling to their narcotic trafficking methods and

that they should also try cocaine in addition to marijuana.

BOLET told the O'DONNEL's that there were many experienced

men available in Florida who could be used to smuggle drugs

into Florida by air.

BOLET was especially interested in cargo

parachute drops and parachute jumps by individuals carryiny

loads of cocaine. BOLET

recruited HEMMING to help organize

these activities. A common technique used by BOLET and HEMMING

was to fly an aircraft into Florida legally, but to have a

parachutist jump onto a pre-selected drop zone in southern

Flörida

prior to landing theraircraftilt This way, police

authorities never found. any.contraband.on: the aircraft and

dropped narcotics would not be: lost because the parachutist

carried them on his person,.?If. he missed: the drop zone he could

simply fold up his parachute: and walk to the location of the

reception committee.' -BOLET fuses. a DC-36tail number N1099 and

a Navajo Chieftain tail number N7678L:in his smuggling operations.

HEMMING had a falling out with the O'DONNEL grOUp

decided to leave them:.. He is now associated with Carlos

CARABALLO who operates a chaiter fishing business

and traffics

in drugs.

HEMMING decided to inform on the O'DONNEL'S fOI

revenge and in order to try to eliminate the competition.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Gerald Patrick KEMMING L

Thomas O'DONNEL

William O'DONNEL

Arturo ROMANO- Fedu110

Carlos CARABALLO

ArIando BOLET

John VAPESE

-3-

METUKN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Naddis 310145

FBI # 100 269

EDO. Not Reproduce

Naddis 327615

Naddis 326518

Naddis 67658

Naddis 270732

Naddis 279217

Nadäis 273842

Naddis 23174

Naddis 47225

Naddis 156721

---

## Page 7

FO RETURA TO CIA

Background Use Only

485-305-591-4902 3DEA

: 3, AUSA

- Karen Attinion 5461

:4 pay travel -

i.when when triali Tues

2. Caption lace

what count

ture no

76-376-CR-CA

Judge

: Saloman

Bob- Frederictre

305- 591-4902 (rex 305-595-1648)

Peter Scarocca Jolm Mantyla 591- 4910

DS/EAB 4E33

x1193

Bot Morsis

Grafton Tayman

OGC

Ed Colen X1319

Gary brennernas

Andy Percival

---

