# 104-10422-10275

## Page 1

ww:ww...HH.h

104-10422-10275

Antanio... Vercane

21.103/1311

LN/ 606/021-77

MEMOR INDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

FROM

SUBJECTS

Raymond A.

Warren

Chief, Latin America Division

Jack Anderson 20 January 1977 Column

Titled "CIA Tied to False Oswald Story"

B.

Identification of the Mr. X in the

Anderson Column

710!

1.

The attached column, citing the testimony of a Mr. X,

alleges that a CIA agent tried to link Oswald to Cuban intelli-

gence officers in Mexico.

There is, of course, no substance to

the column's

allegations. The

column identifies the source as

Mr. X because of attempts on his life, but subsequently gives

enough information on Mr. X to establish his identity.

According to the Anderson column, Mr. X was first met

by his CIA contact

in Havana before relations with U.S./ Cuba were

severed.

Mr. X had helped to organize bank

accountants to en-

bezzle Cuban

government funds to finance anti-Castro causes.

Mr. X was reportedly recruited by a Morris Bishop (CIA contact),

to plan

an attempt on Castro's

life.

The plan was

to fire

bazooka from

a nearby apartment building while Castro was deliver-

ing one of his marathon speeches.

According to the Anderson

colunn, the plot was discovered by Castro's police and Mr. X

escaped

to Miami.

Mr. X also reportedly tried to assassinate

Castro in Chile in 1971 in league with the Venezuelan Luis Posada

Cabria airline tomboy cramn An

Carriles, who is now being detained in Caracas for the o October

The Anderson column ends with

the report

that Mr.

X worked for ClA until 1912 for expenses,

but was

puid!

$253,000 in cash by Morris Bishop when he was terminated.

WARNING NOTICE

/ SENSITIVE INTDLLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

"SECRET

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 025251

21-1211

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SBCRET

3

From the above description of Mr. X, it is reasonably

clear that ir. Xis Antonio Carlos VECIANA Blanch (201-312966) .

VECIANA, an assistant bank manager and

past president of a public

accountants

association

in lavana, first contacted CIA in Havana

in December 1960 when

asked the COS, at that tinel

to help in an assassination plot against Castro. VECIANA asked

for visas for ten

relatives of the

four men assigned to kill Castro,

and

also

requested four MI rifles with adapters

for grenades plus

eight grenades.

The COS did not encourage VECIAN and subsequently

checked with an Embassy officer who reported that VECIANA had made

similar "wild-eyed" proposals to him.

On 23 November 1961 the

Miami News published a

report of an unsuccessful attempt by Antonio

VECIANA to kill Castro.

VECIANA reportedly had arranged to

assassinate Castro and. Cuban President Osvaldo Dorticos on 5 October

in. Havana, but the bazooka he was using failed to fire.

4. There has been no Agency relationship with VECIANA.. A

POA, which was granted for his use in

para-military affairs in

January 1962, expired in November 1962.

VECIANA was born on

4 October 1935 in Havana.

He was

a member of the People's Revo-

lutionary Movement,

an anti-Castro group. in Cuba during 1960-61

•and

was one of the founders of Alpha-66.

by trade, VECIANA was with A.I.D: in La Paz in 1968-72. VECIANA

ivas

registered

in ISR to the U.S.

Army in November 1962 and he

was

terminated without prejudice in July 1966.

• 23 July 1962

VECIANA was interviewed, at his request, by Mr. Harry Read from

the DCD Neiv York office. VECIANA asked Real to arrange a meeting

with a senior CIA officer to discuss

Alpha-66's plans

to assassinato

Castro

and to request CIA's assistance (U.S. $100,000; 10,000 Cuban

pesos; 48 hand

grenades).

There

no indication that this request.

was ever acted

upon by CIA.

" 5.

In April 1966 a LA Division officer,

the alias John Livingston, met VECIANA

in New

meeting was arranged by a retired naval officer, James Cogswell,

who had

informed Chief,

WII Division

that he had information of valuc

concerning Cuba.

When

Jarrived

in New York City for the meeting,

he was introduced by Cogswell to VECIANA. He immediately launched

a discussion of the Cuban political situation and noted his strong

feeling that the only solution was

the assassination of. Castro.

hadvised VECIANA that he was

in no position to provide him with

assistance or encourage him in an assassination attempt and was only

interested

in gathering information

which he thought was the purpose

of the meeting.

VECIANA subsequently said that his roomnate felix

ZABALA, a Cuban refugoe, had excollent contacts in lavana.

It was

clear to d however

VECIANA was attempting to use, ZABALA poten-

tially to get Agency financial support for his organization.

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SHC11

would look into the ZABALA matter and would probably arrange for

ZABALA to be contacted in Puerto Rico.

6.

There is no indication in the file that any Agency officer

in contact with VECINi ever used an alias Morris Bishopthere was

There is

no Morris Bishop listed

in true name

in the DO rolls.

never any contractual relationship with VECIANA and he was not

paid CIA funds.

7.

On 1'1 January 1977 a sanitized copy of VECIANA'S 201 file

was made available to staffers from the Senate Select Committee on

Intelligence.

sigood

Farcoad A. Warren

Raymond A. Warren

Attachment

DDO/C/LA/COG/OPS:WJDevine: js (9229) (21 January 1977)

Distribution:

Orig &

1 - Addressee

1 - ADDO

1 - LA/COG/Chrono

- C/ LAD

3 - 201=312966

1

- h01c

I - ASST. TODCI

SEC

---

## Page 4

13-00000

THE WASHINGTON POST

Wednesiay, January 19, 1977

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Mystery Witness in JFK Inquiry

i A mystery witness has sworn to con-

anti-Castro forces migbt

have

re

how Kencedy would die. Then the rab

gressional investigators that & Ceniral

cruited Oswaid, a known, pro-Castro

ble rouser auded knowingiy that Ken.

Intelligence Agency agent introduced

activist to kill Kennedy.

nedy "knows he is a marked man."

him to Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas

"The motiva on this," states the ma

Milteer later admitted to the FBI

three months before Oswald guaned

mo, "wouid of course be the eipecta-

that he had been in-Dallas in June

down President Joan F. Keanedy.

dion that aiter the President was

1963, but denied having any knowl

• The witness, whom we have agreed

Filled, Oswald would de caught or at

edge of the Kennedy assassination.

to identily oniy a Mir. X because of at-

least his identity ascertained; the law

Rovever, the incormant told the fBl

tempts of his life, is the founder of a

enforcement authoritias and the pub

that he asked hidteer aiter the saoot

lic would then blame the assassination

Cucan

terrorist group

tast worked

ing whether he had known about it in

on the Castro government; and the call

advance or bad merely been guessing.

closely with the ClA

The group held secret meetings at

for a forcetul overtbroy would be irre

"I don't do any guessing." replied Mil

3126 Eoilandale in Dallas before the as

sistible."

teer.

sassination. Not long aiter Kennedy

But Hoover abruptly blocked this

But the most explosive deveiopment

was shot, a Dallas deputy sberift was

line of inquiry by notilying toe War-

is Mr. X's statement that he met Os

told by an informant that Oswaid had

ren Commission on Sept. 21, 1964, that

wald in the company of a ClA agent.

been associating with some Cubars at

the FBI had lecated ard identried

Congressional investigators questioned.

«3129 Harlendale."

Odio's callers. He namsd them as

the mystery witness closely on three

Mr. X's dramatic testimony: casts

Loran Hail Lawrence Howard and

separate occasions. They finally con-

new light on the story Sylvia Cdio,

William Seymour, all anti-Castroites.

cluded that "his credibility is strengeb-

daughter of a wealtay opconent of Cu-

Hoover even suggested that Odio could

ened by ice detaise provides consist-

ban Premier Fidel Castro, told to tae

have confused the nazes "Loran Hall"

ent with what he told us before. Signit-

EBL Two nortes before the Kenredy

and "Leon Cswald."

'icantly, he remains very strong on the

killing, she related, she was risited in

Now the congressional investigators

Oswald signing

her Dallas apartment by three men

have uncovered evidence that all targe

The encounter occurred in i down

who identifled themselves as frienda

denied visiting the. Odio apartment

town Dallas building, where Mr. & had

and that the FBI had obtained their

• of her father.

an appointment with his ClA contact

denials bejore Hoover wrote his letter

The agent was accompanied by a man

One was introduced to her as "Leon

to the Warren Commission.

whom Mr. & later racognized as Ken

Oswald." When she saw the picture la

The investigators bave alsu obtained

nedy's biller.

the newspapers of the man who had

the tape or a rascluating conversation,

"When he saw it wag Oswald that

shot Kennedy, she fainted from shocs

predicting two weeks in adwaace that

killed Kaunedy," the investigators ra

It was the same Oswald, she was cer-

Kennedy would be shot "irom an oil-

ported in a confidential memo,

"he

tin, who had visited her apartment.

ice buiding with a bigh-powered ri-

Congressional

nearly ireated out, but he never said

investigators

have

fle." The prediction was made by the

anything."

now learned toat the late J. Edgar

late Josepb Milteer, & right-wing rab

The investigators tried to pin down

•Hoover deliberately misted the war-

ble rouser, #eo also happenec to have

Mr. X. on how he could be sure that

ren Commission about Odio's mysteri-

close

connactions with anti-Castro

man was Oswald. Mr.. & replied, ac-

ous visitors. She was such a persuasive

leaders.

cording to the memo, that he bad

• witness that the commission stall was

The conversation was taved on Nov.

learned "how to retain the character-

preparing to investigate her story

9, 1933, in Miami by an FBl informant

ics of a person; be had trained birselt

thoroughly.

named Willie Somersett, who turned

to do that And if it wasn't Cowald, it

Stalt members even speculated, ac-

the tape over to the FBI the next day.

was someone who was eractly like Ce

cording to one internai memo, that the

Milteer is heard on the tape describing

wald, his exact double.

B15

---

