# 104-10169-10343

## Page 1

104-10169-10343

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

We see, an on too manch

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

LUCROFILKED:

22

DISPATCH NO.

EVA -4570

КАРОКі

Bібо8

DATE _ 28 August 1955.

T0 Clos, Allas Silvan 1. Hobson

DURNECT | SPECIFIC

Transastral of CRATOLIC I Clandestine Photographe

22

Taken During 10 7955

RETs

IAVA-21529, 15 August 1955

Transnitted herewith are 407 clandestine photographs taken by

CHATOrIC I during the month of Nay 1955.

A11 of then wore taken with the

"chest capera" described in the reference and previous correspondence.

The numbering sygten is the same as and a direct continustion of that used

for the 1a1t1al CRITONIC I photographs transmitted with the reference.

2. It should bo noted that a considerable proportion of the italia

during Kay was shot at the Trattnerhof in an offort to secure photographic

coverage of USIA officials. It 15 our hope that 1t will be possible some

time during the near future to show all the Trattnerhof photographs taken

to dato (and no more will be taken fron nor on) to Ds 623.

In this objective, we shall of course report the results to Headquarters

athout delay.

You will-further note that the photographs Nos. G 32."

through & 32.13 are not transmitted with the attached.

These prints are

nov avallable only in single copy, and wiil be transmitted after they are

shown to DS 623.

Additional copies of this series were not printed, since

In general they were of relatively poor suitabllity for identification work.

3. In general, it 1a felt that the coverage during May shows a distinet

Improvement, roth technically and with respect to successiul coverago of

targets of Interest, ovor that transmitted along with the reference.

12tho present tire, GETONIC I coverage of sensitive areas is being temporarily

suspended, both in order to avoid burning him through overuse and because

the VCB Techrical Support Section, in the addst of Its nove from GRATAS O?

I2to GRAIL,, Is not ablo to process photographs.

We intend, as the post

occupation Soviet establishment becoros more clearly definable, to deploy

O2SGRATONIC 1 against installations of this establishment in ordor to deteruine

vich sovies, espocially MIs officere, are staffing the ney -gus.

576-9.7018

23

INDEXED

SECART

OLABSIFIOATION

KAF

1IBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

$. 21.2.216

12.24,8024.20

32.13

32°

KAPOK

sin 220

EVA +21570

Page 2

so venty-fro separate necativo stripo aro ropresented la to

attached printo, as follows:

11l

Humber

Date

Taken

1 May 1955

1. Hay 1955

J May 2955

* May 1955

2. May 1955

3 May 1955

A, Hay 1955

5 May 1955

• 6 Hay 1955

8 May 1955

9 May 1955

20 May 2955

21 Hay 1955

12 May 1955

19 May 1955

28 May 1955

18 May 1955

19 May 1955

30

G 31

G 32

20 May 1955

20 May 1955

23 May 1955

Ares

Taken

Remasics

Ring, Kay Day Parado Marginal vaÏne

Fing, May Day Parado Karginal talue

Bellaria, May Day Parade Blurred

Bing, May Day Parado Marginal valdo:

Grand Imperial, May Day Marginal value

Grand /Imperial

Grand Imperial

Grand/Imperial

Grand/Imperial

Grand Imparisl, Bellaria

Grand, Imperial

Grand/Imperial

Grand/Imperial

Grand/Imperial

Trattnerbof

Bellaria

Trattnerho!

Bollaria; Imperial

Trattnerho!

Bollariaz Imporiad

Trattherhos

Prints O 3201

though & 32.13

hold for later

transnizedon®

SECKET

KAFÜK

11BR

17486296-9

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET КАРОК

7

22

ENVA-21570

Page 4

G 18: PhotO G 18.5.-P. do WIGATOY, MU OffICer 1n

Strategle Intelligence Rezidentura, Vierra.

Identification as RU •

officer by AbDIFPER 20, as EULlIOV by FOB.

Io Q 19: None.

G 20: Photos G 20.1 and G 20.2:

On left, B. No BULLI 08

KG5 Besidenture, Vienna.

On right, 1. O. TISS557, also,08 KGI

Residenture. Both identifications by ASDIPPE? 20.

Photos G 20.3 - On leM, P. A. BULGINOV (8e0 @ 1805).

On right, Vassily !!! SHORNIKOY; also of the Strategic Intelligence

Residenturs, Vienna. identifications by ARIPPER 20 and VOB.

Photo G 20.4 - Yassily 3. ISITIIKOV", formerly of the

ICB Reaidenturs, Vienna, non stationed in Noscow; SITHIKOV reportedly

returned to Vienna for the State Treaty signing ceremonies.

Identification by ASDIPPER 20.

Photos & 20.16, & 20.17 and & 20.28 - Man on sight

I (raith dark suit and cigarotte in loft hand) very familiar to

AEDIPPER 20; he 18 not a member of the KGB, however.

a rober of the KGB Rezidenture.

Photo G 21.1 - Soviet, works in the Imperial, 1s not

Identification by ABDIPPER 20.

Photo G 21.2 - On lost, 1. A. BIANOVSK, member

of the Logal Affairs Section, Soviet HICOM.

identification by VUB.

On right, A. AKALININ, KGB Rezidentura, Vionna. Identification

by AEDIPPEE 20.

Antonto a d left.

A..

stefand

CAVA - 14323

& 223 Photo G 22.2 - S. 1. "SIDOROV, member of the Legal

Suo-Soction, Administrative Section, Eudet HICS, Trans Photogr

by VOB, through comparison with SIDOrOV's Interzonal Pass photograph.

Photos G 22.2 end 6 22-3 - On Jaft, Nonstantin No.

to Vienna.

of Aduinistrative Support Section, Soviet HICO!. Identification by

ABDIPPER 20.

Fioto & 2204 - On left, NU, Chief of the German

languago Inatruction setup at the Hotel Imperial (CI. Photo G 17.13).

In middle, N. O. TILASHLV, KGB Rezidertura, Vienna.

on right,

Individual not known. Identifications by ABDIPPER 20.

Photos & 22.5 and & 22.6 = Man in the midle te

I: Anately M. (prevdously reportod as "V.") GOLITSYN, of the jua

SECRET

V/GR

---

## Page 4

KAPOKi

•22

ENU4-2257

Page!

Residentura,

Vienna; the other tho nen not known. Identification

by ADDIPFER 20.

Residenturs, Vienra.

Photo O 22.8 - Man on the loft (with whito halr), NU,

Ease 1961

1. RVABPHENTO

used to visit Yevgent IXiOVAlaY, NaB RezidenE, vory frequently 10 a

the latterg office; he 1s not, horever, a member of the KuB

Besidentura. Other man not loon. Identification by APIPPER 20.

APDOSAINA.

Photo O 22.9 - On loft, wife of one of the tuB

Residentura officers, NU.

On right, also IU,

Soviet bookkeeper 1n

the Grand Hotel. Both identifiestions by AbDIPPER 20.

Photo G 22.10 - On LoSt, V. V. BOCHKAREY, milItary

" Intelligence officer.

Other man not known. Identification by VOB.=

Photo G 22.13 - Not known, but appears f/w subjoct

--

1. 01 Photo a 23-10.

Photos G 23.1 and G 23.2 - Vloving Iron left to right,

NIkoLas S.IAPANASTEV (believed an RU econoute intelligence offscor,

overtly & Soviet trade representative in Austria, Si., BAVA S420,

23 Sept 1954).

and AEDIPPER 20).

Intelligence Rezidentura, Vienna•

Identification by VOB (ARDIFPER 20

neraly rated that BADIN looked "familiarl). Man on extreme righ

not know.

so baile to dimes?

(EArS 11961)

Photos G 23,3 and G 23.4. - On right, Georgy S.

MALOLYETKOY; other man not known. Identifiestion ly ARDIPPER 20.

Iddle, A. MATTOSHCHENKO, Political Sounselor N.

REUPENIKOV. In a

Political Counsellor, Soviet imbassy,

Identifications by ABDIPPER 20.

Photo & 24,2 - On richs, I. A. SINNOVSKI, Estbea

Logal Affairs Section, Soviet HICON.

In middle, G. Nothie,

Chief of the Legal Affairs Section.

Other man not known. Idontifi-

cations by VOB.

@ 258 Photo Q 25.1 - Or loft, A. V.

for lover Austris to the Soviet Hign Connissioner (iie.,

the Lovor Austrian Landuskormandatura).

PAIN has stated that ke 10

transferring to the Soviat Enbasy and romaining on in Vienna after

SECRET

KAPOK

1/BR

---

