# 104-10438-10186

## Page 1

1104-10438-101861

SECRET

23 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Ca11 from

STURGIS

of DCD Concerning Frank

Told

Айто

given to the DCD Miami office by a contact (not identified

on 23 August who obtained it from Oscar FREELY. FREELY is

writing a book on Frank STURGIS.

STURGIS is to appear on the Tomorrow Show at 2 a.m.

on 24 August, which is to be narrated by Tom Schneider.

STURGIS just recently returned to Miami fiom taping the show

-While in New YOrk STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and

obtained from her a book which, according to source, appeared

to be cryptographic material and seemed to relate to Albania.

The DCD source saw a "few copies" of what he described as

"mathematical matrix" material.

1.

STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) is attempting

to contact. Senator Baker

DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the situation and advise

whether the material in fact is turned over to Baker..

file

Chris Hopkins

LA/COG/CIOS

201- 242256

STURGIS

an is shalt ther

- la sier do.

8/23

D00214°

---

## Page 2

13-00000

OPE

win 135/cl

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle ll appropriate) (90 CHARACTERS)

LETTER

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARA TERS)

LA,

COGICIOS

CLASS

ERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

NEFERRED BY 110 CHARACTIREI

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

Call FRom

6

FRANK STURGiS

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

7

B. Release in sanitized form.

c. beny in toto

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DETER DECISION TO TO CHARACTERS) COORDINATE WITH (10 OURACTENS) CLAS

8

SIGNATURE

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CL

140 CHARACTERS)

9

FOIA

PA

B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 B6 BYC

B JI J!

K61

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

10

1. Classification

•2. Informition from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Informision pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify

the

- 174E

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7. Location of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudony=

12, Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17.. Does not pertain to reguest

19. Other (Specify in line 11)

REMARKS IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) (10 CHARACTERS)

REMARES 1160

CTERS)

HSCA BOX

=10

Instructions for Divisions ond Srolfa:

: seditional commenta.

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

23A4676

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

The RecoRD

DDO Y

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

201-242256

OF DOD CoNCeRNiNA

DAY MONTH

YEAF

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

DATE

OF

REVIEW

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

F.

Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

REVIEWING OFFICER

E.O. 12356

PA

(33) (1)

(5) (1)

(5) (1)

(5) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (2)

(3) (3)

(3)

(3)

(3)

($ (1)

(3)(1)

F) (1)

(3) (1)

(3)

(3) (7) (0) (3)(2)

(3) (2)

(5) (1)

(b) (6)

(b

-

11

12

13

14

This Form la Unclessifed Unloss The Clossilicalion is CA

ond The Infomation belon la completed.

CL BY:

DECL OADR

DRY FROM:

---

