# 104-10185-10225

## Page 1

104-10185-10225

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

'ERORI

INFORM ON REPORT.

•CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJELT

Cuba

Rajaei CUZMAN

SECRE 1

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00259-64

20 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO

1964

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. JUly 1964

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE CRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL OF CONTÉNT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments:

1.

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentione in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Directo tener, de tree nea anco, " eneral Directorate of

Intelligence) stationed in Cuba. His address is Calle 45, number

3424, entre 34 y 36, Marianao; his telephone number is 29-3276.

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on GUZMAN.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

4

3

3/PV

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

INAVY TAIR

INSA

REP CINCLANT CINCSO # I&N'S

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "$"-)

I OCR

I FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION-REPORT

WH/SA/BOBI WE, 5/R

1 CILIA

THISA MOB I HE/MADRA CUR&A

1JE

I0X-1323.1

NO PROJECT

CH SATR

• WASHI

I(AMMUG-1)

T,A

TeM/AN

is !

CSCI-316: 00253-64

---

