# 104-10408-10368

## Page 1

1104-10408-10368

IG

ir

JOHN MCITE

5613

TE :"

6 DECEMBER - 1953

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROM: DIRECTOR

ONF .

C/WH

D61,D/Đel

1, DDP, C/CI, C/C1/S1, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

RECORDS UPTTEER STA

12-62

ROUTING

4

5

uthorteed: DE SENSITIAL

let 6 23 29 253

Stead: 1. Hantu

MEC DEARLE SECT.

ROUTINE

If destruction,

reasons and coordinate

iO

PRIORITY

CITE DIR

87519

MAT GPILOOR

FET

4330 (IN 74360)

1. FEBE IOUR EMOONE HANDLINO HAS CLARCIED CASE MUCH AB POSSTILE, THRCUCH

DURBOT IHYERVISHS HITH ALFRECHI AND AFERO. NEXT SEP SHOULD ER DO HAVE FIRATES

OR OTESAL

INTERVISH RITUERSTRAIR, RECOGIZE THIS MAY IS SOMEHHAT DELICATS,

BUT THIS INVESLIGATIOT ON SUCH OBVIOUS IMPORTANCE THEY CAN HOT WATE REPUSE.

IN IMPORTANT CRIMIIAL INVESTIGATIONS, WHICH THIS IS TO GREAT EXUSHT, SUCH

COOPERATION QUITE NORMAL.

2. IF ABERO EAS GONE TO POLICE AS YOU SUGGESTED, REST SHOULD BE EASY, BUT EVEN

IP SHE HAS NOT DONE SO, SUCGESI NOU DISCUSS WITH TIPSTAYS PROS AND CONS OF

HAVING

MAKE DIRECT APPROACH TO RIDERSERALE. HOUS THAT IN RETATED

CASES, MEXICANS AND FRENCH, BOTH VERY JEALOUS OP THRIR SOVERIGHTY, HAVE ARRESTED

AND GRITIED PERSONS ERTLEVED TO KHOW SOMETHTIG ABOUT ASSASSINATION.

END OU MESSAGE

Document Number 338-711

for FOlA Reviow on MAY 1976

STOC 4330 gave detalle of Investigation of claim by Albrecht and Aberg

that Ridderstrale had advance Information on Kennedy assassination.

CS COPY

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

24 MAY 1976

201-289248

CONDUCTED ON_

authority of

RELEPARE OFFICER

D-200-5-41.0m Fre PET a 8re/2208

Ereluded Irom automatie

SECRET

• Howigrading and

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTIENTING

Copy No..

---

