# 104-10312-10016

## Page 1

T104-10312-10016|

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer 20

File No.

washington, D. C.

November 13, 1967

20535

GORDON DWANE NOVEL

On November 8, 1967, Gordon Dwane Novel, a

self-described "electronic bugging expert" and a witness

In District Attorney James Garrison's probe Into the

assassination of the late President John F. Kennedy,

voluntarily furnished the following information to a

Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation:

Novel stated that recently he has sold

manufacturing rights for his antibugging device which

he called checimate, to the Zelex Marketing Corporation,

866 United Nations Plaza, New York, New York.

Through the

has received inquiries Iron

several foreign governments, through their embassies

In Washington, D. Co, regarding bugging and antibugging

equipment.

Novel said that he demonstrated both bugging

and antibugging equipment to the following foreign

government representatives:

Brigadier Furdoon L. B. Mehta, J. So,

Military Attache, Embassy of India..

Washington, D. C.

(FNU) Storer, Attache, British Embassy,

Washington, Do Ce

Perry Lasada, Personnel Secuzity, Embassy

of Venezuela, Washington, Do C.

Erdogan Guven, Attache, Embassy of Turkey,

Washington, D. C.

Asurin Joesoet, Office of the Military

Attache, Embassy of Indonesia, Washington, D. C.

Distribution: 28 Nov. 1967

Mr. McCord,

Mr. Kane

TSD and Mr.

(via Mr

1168=1

---

## Page 2

13-00000

C

GORDON DWANE NOVEL

M. Qadrid-Din, Second Secretary, Embassy

of Pakistan, Washington, D. C.

Major General Chiang Wu-wel, Military

Attache, Embassy of the Republic or china,

Washington, D. C.

Novel said that all expressed considerable

Interest in both types of equipment and said sales to

their governments would probably be forthcoming.

Novel, additionally, advised that he sold ore

of his antibugging checkmate units to Charles Costello,

whom he advised is connected with the Ace Vending Machine

Corporation, Trenton, New Jersey, and that the magnetic

rield loop o. the device was installed in the ceiling of

Costello's private office In Trenton, New Jersey.

Ila docir, ral cantana selebos

racommentiona no. conciusion ut

the T21.

---

