# 104-10057-10153

## Page 1

11041005710753)

• APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

3-02.0

0810443121D

Me COORIS

05/055

1E,37.

PC 55 y

AYEROYAL:

COMMEHT

CONCURPERCE

DISCATCH

FILE

arenanon

PREPARE REPLY

RECOKMEHOATION

SIGHATERE

For your retenteris ar!

„safe mug. Here entere

en attachiner.

1028 40. 237

8-08

FOLD HERE TO HETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAMI, ADDRESS ANO PHONE NO.

E0A TEN

81 SeC

TONFIDENTIAL,

Use previous editions

#USCIO: 1076 - 202-959

(40%

---

## Page 2

13-00000

17 anary 1'??

COTTAGE RETORT

1i10

SUBJECT:

PLACE

THE

1 former staffer

8202 Day

"sinto brive

Taria;

Florida

33515

313-851-8610

Debrinfing on Training and Denolittons Given to Anti-

Castro Cuban Exiles

Holiday, Inn (Tampa. Airport)

Tampa, Florida

14. January. 1977

0900 - 115 hours

Purpose:

To dobriof

on questions posed by tin

Department of Justice regarine anti-Castro Cuban exiles.

questions, in general, covered training and explosives/detonatio?

derines givon to these exiles.

came to my motel room (503) on Friday

morning at 0900 and departed at 1645.

During this time, both of us

sat in easy charis in front of a picturo ridoi on the 5th foor - dr.

Kid 95% of the talking.

Neither of us got up durine this ceriod,

a strech of almost 8 hours.

was most intertaining,

marginally informativo as to specific details on the questions pronel

to him. Ho spins a good story

and remembers peoble and places cer:

It bona fidos

mesting was a call fron lis. Sheil.

A 12 day before. I arrived in Tampa.

•goosy, because of a DEA connection (bolow), and checked mig out thru

a phone call to the motel by his wife. Incidentally, I used trus

3. Results: A covered the following topica with me:

Training: On Panama and the facilities user, il the best

/ could remember,

Ft. Sheman was open in about Argust or

September 1960 to train Cubans for about a 2 to 3 month period.

There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIME followers. When it was

docidod a birger group would ho noeder, which later becara Bripadlo

2505, those people were sont to Rotalhulou (Guilomala) arilxuth in

abont Novomber 1960. Actually, the group was split, with some going

to Guatemala and. others. to.the New Orleans. area.

As to othor tralning

in Panana,

A lhas no knowledge. (NOTE:

A surgested that Mr.

4A, ", retired staffor currently in the New Orleans area,

might be a good source.

Iwas C/Ops for the invasion Task Force,

as woßl as Deputy for PM and C/Ops for Ji/AVE at one time.)

1, Au, is, C, 1, mine CIA employees.

001016

---

## Page 3

13-00000

As lo explorines, lino doli:

control dovisen, detonation roberials, etc. riven do thoss exilor,

"Lool: ovor the supply mamal for thal limo." Apparenil:,

the exiles word riven everything that was available an in lat

quantities.

d lenid he just could not bogin to sive me a list

of what had beon passel.

c. Infil Toamo: Aftor the Bay of Piro invasion,

worked with infiltration teams.

from couchly 1953 to 1956.

wore unilateral loams.traintn? anl sponsored by the Arency.

othor catagory was "political" toans - that is politiont group: in

southern Florida wio were sponsoring infiltratione into Cuba.

Tho Agency holpod this later a catarory by riving them supplios.

In the case of both, they usually made a caches in Cuba.

The

unilateral team, as an example, would make a cache on-island, ant

another group would pick it up and use it (compartrentation).

In some cases, toans (both unilateral and political) would not

actually make the cache and keep the material. in Florida, to be

used later at their own convenience,

that some of Castro's troops obtained some of then cachos, due to

foul-ups and snitches.

These caches containos pistols, rifles and

hoavier, monoy and demolitions. Somo of the teams cheated by going

to the Bahamas and buryinh thoir stuff on small islanis and reporting

back to Florida that they had cached in Cuba.

stated soveral

timos that there was no effoctive control over the "political"

eroups and thereforo no. control ofer the material riven them.

this,

me may surnize that Agency equipment (domolition includer) was

in the handis of anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as

Castro's Rebel Army on-island.

Brigade Trainior:

Furthor to donolition training to

Anti-Castro Cubans,

reminded me that shortly after the Brimade

was ransomod from Cuba, Brigado leadors were taken to Palm Beach

and talkod with President Kennody.

At that timo, the US Govt offered

Brigade membors. the chance to join the U.S. ary.

This also included

infil team members, who were completely seporate from the Brigade, and

members of the Brigade airforce.

The Army end of this trainin?

given at Ft. Banning,

Georia and beran in carly 1953.

members entered the U.S. Army at roubly equivalent ranks - officers

were made 2nd Its.

They received Ranger trainine, plus. jump trainin.

said, if any

exiles wore training, in demolations and related

thiro bost training was probably rivon at ft. Benning.

of those mon were in the U.S. Army for oither 6 months or one yoar.

Cubanz Boribing:

was specifically asked about the

6 Octobor 1976 bombing the of the Cubana airliner in the Caribbean.

A I said the street-word among tho Cuban community in south Florida

Is that the bomb should have gone off in the plane on the ground.

bombers did not mean to kill all of those people.

On BOSCH, the

community does not particularly like him, but admires him because he

had been going at Castro tooth and nail for yoars. They do not like

the idea of terrorism and fault BOSCH and MORALES for this.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

3

Seing Fever:

hard road the cocon!

papers about the introduction of Swine Fever Lato Cuba be the Macy

in 1972.

Ho had no knowlede of this.

do dil ask it o hail

checked with DIA???

said when he had boon with the Army as ?

Spocidl foreos type,

it was unbelievemblo what the Arme harl domo

in tie ta

maural a training

Juced into the water of a hotel where Pres. Eisonhonor was

In any evont, turret.

into Cuba, ho wouldn't doubt that the Amy/DIA had come ham in it,

espocially if there-called sourcos claimed it care out of Ft. Cialioii.

#: Assassinations by the Aroncy:

A isain ho had absolital!

no knowledgo of assassinations, attempts or plans, by anyone in

the

Agency during his tour.

Not only were they prohibited by the Areira.

thoy wore counter-productive. It was explained to him during hi:

Azency tour that thure was a good chance of an assascination hac!:-

firing; that we (U.S.) are more vulnurable to

assassinations than

the Cubans

or Sovicts. Therefore,

as far an he was concorned, ther

wore strictly vorboton.

Etitorializin,

that the upper-scholonsdid not bolieve in this restriction.

of that, they approachod mafiosa to help them.

rathor anti-Kennedy, especially Bobby, with whom he

match during a learing on the Bay of Pigs invasion.)

h.

Assassination of Paruyero:

dose Feruyero, a Bay

of Pigs voteran and leader of the Brigade 2505, was runned down last

wock as he loft his home in Minni.

A said

the wom on tho stro

amony: the gyban, community is that this was done by tho Mal as a canim:

to the anti cubans in Miami. Foruyer had no enemies - ho was not

into drugs, crimo, polities,

By killin; him, the

Cubant sere

warning

the community that thoy could strike anywiore and anyono.

Thus, watch out and lay off Cuba and Cuban citizens.

If anyone else

thad been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed on

the mafia, drug dealors, politicians, etc.

A copy of an oditorial

¿from the Tampa" Tribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

- 1.

Tahp? Tribune

I Jan 77

Emergency in Miami

Murder is murder but assas.

the resources of a local law en-

sination is something else again.

forcement agency.

It's an emergency.

That is why Minni police,

Seven Cubon oxile leaders

wisely, have appealed lo U.S. At-

have been assassinated in Miami

torncy General Edward Lovi lo

in the past three yoars, five of

allow FBl intervention in the in-

them in the last few months. Lat.

vestigation of the unsolved kil-

est to fall was Juan Jose Per.

lings.

wero, a Bay of Pigs veteran and

Federal intervontion is nol, is

leader of Brigade 2506, gunned

widely believed, automatic in as-

dosen. as he left his front door

sassination cases. The murder of

last week

a private person, even the politi-

Mindless murder is a purely

cal assassination of a man on the

¡local police matter.

But

the

street, is not a Federal offense.

coolly calculater multiple politi-

Before the FBI can enter the

cal assassinations, not to men-

case, Levi must declare that the

tion assassination altempts, in

Miami

murders constitute

all

the cily that Cuban refugres

"emergency."

adopted, are admittedly beyond They do, it is and he should.

(NOTE:

'If not already done, it might be a good idoa to look into

the background of Peruyoro, as far as the Agency is concorned, if

come to us for information into this case. Naturally,

theyhwill

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Assassination of leblelier: Milo

on assassination:,

no. personal knouleke

of what arronod:

Again, howover, he pavo no the "stroet word."

• the Cuban comunity is aaying that the same paople mho did

performed tir taleshire

arraned for the Lottalior killing - hired and paid tho killors.

reason, the

Oicago family of the Mafia is furious with

Traficanto, bocause he is/or will bring hoat on the lafia.

reason for Traficanto doirs it???

Fidol Castro hirel him and paid

him well to do it.

The word ir that Traficanto has been cooperati::

with the Dot and Fidel since he doparted Cuba.

Fidel wanted Rossoli

killod, because of Rosseli's part in the assassination attenpt againit

Fron tho stre th gized that that this is not his thoory, but wors

CHS Show on Cuba:

A isaid O'S is planning

on the "Lagacy of the Bay of Pins," which should on broatcast in

about. May 1977. CBS has already shot seanx interviers in Miami,

including, ono with Peruyero (above) before he was killed, plus

covorinz the aftermath of his assassination.

Currently, the CBS

crew Is in Cuba - they hops to filn the beachos at the Pay of Pies -

which had beon suggested to them by

interviowed an has given his opinions for the TV showing.

in Cuba, the CRS crew hopes to also intervier Fidel - also at the

surgostion of

The fellow bohind the show is named CRILE and

he has talkod to

A / extensivoly.

Acconlin: to

A l tho shor

would have boon vory anti-doncy in its comments, but ho

has turnod this around almost 180 degrnes!!!

As plannod, the

show will be two hours and shoun in May 1977.

Brigado 2505: On the Brigado,

A 'said he had bean

an apolitical organization.

Individunls of any political shade had

been mombers and politica had not really entored Brirade Association

business.

Last oar, howevor, they joined with Orlanlo BOSCH, anonr

others, to help form cold.

Now, the Brigade is embarrassed and wished

they had never joined CORU.

They with-drew shortly after the Chbana

bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the

Brigade Association, which

¡considors a shame.

(abovo),

said he was filmed attending an anniversary mesting.

This same meating was where CBS filmod Peruyero.

1. Lynch & DEA: When

A rotired from the Agency, ho

moved to Koy Wast.

, Ho camo to the attention of DEA, especially to

Lou Conine; an ex-Agency officer now with DEA.

an SOB and worso.

He went into a long explaination of his activitios

with DEA in Key west. • In summary, he was a P/A and ran a string of

informants.

Because of intornal DEA politics, ho was blown and left

on a string in Key West.

He had to leave town within 24

hours and loft his people (informants) there without calling

Is a result, he lost friends, prestigo with his

Informants (many of them Cuban exiles) and his business in Key West.

In coneral torns, he was troated very shabbily by DEA and regrots

ever having nixod with them.

He is still in contact with one of

001016

CONT'D

---

## Page 7

13-00000

op or-officor;

Acconlin: lo

will tr

returning. to

the Agency thorl.ly.

in familiar with the

operation in Kay dust.

was also in

volvol in

this operation, ono

The undorsirned knes

in Hinting kas

•contract calogne al about ti?.

Ded he mickly rose to us-l't and was dirostin the key

oberation.

when it folded, accorling,

sent lack to dashington,

where hir

is not workin;

¡was bustel to G3-13 an?

in DSd's Inspoction

Diviston (similar to our Id Staff).

A i was also aware of anoth

0x-dgoncy employco, (fir)

D

6uho was to do to lexico under

DEA "deep cover".

Accordina. lo

• 1,

wan lo be involve!

in ascassination ovirations avainst Moxican dentero and pushers.

Inst.garl,

ended up in El Paso for about a voar and is no:

in linmi.

The unlersigned personally know

0

¿hul did not

know of his spocific assignent within DeA.

While the above

is a little ranbling, this is the way the debriefin of

A / sent

all afternoont)

A 's Hanuseripl.:

I hard road'

Al's muscript,

"The Bay of Pirs" beforo departin: Washiniton.

Lynch explaineil that,

he hail dictated this paper and had a couple of scerotarios type il

It is only in very rough form and ho wanted to get his

thoughts

down on papor.

15 ho indicates in tho paper, ho wanted to get the

facts straight.

He feols that since he was

there and part of the

invasion, he has a unique voes point of the Bay of lies and wants

to see that history rofloets his potition.

As indicated earlier,

is rather bittor against the Now Frontier, the Kennedy's

This is roflected in his manuscript.

/claimed that,

much of his papor had boen "stolen" in that he explained tho invasion,

for instanco, to the CBS crow arl thoy woro using sonn of his material.

in the soon to bus be shown program describer above.

In addition,

A imentioned that he harl spoken to the Areney historian - can'

•rocall his namo: - on iho is also writing a book (classified) on the

invasion.

1s to publication, it coons to be in the dirtant future.

He does not plan to no to a publisher, where he would xor rocoit?

royalty payments of around 5.

Rather, he plans to publish on his

own, probably in Miami, and realize close to 100% profit.

cost him thr in the area of $5,000, but he could realize a profit of

about $30,000 depending on sales.

lalso spoko nhout porsonalitios within the

mebtioned Ted Shackley, "Dum'Dum"Dimner, many people in

a part in the invasion or JMVAVE.

Agoncy employees association that Dave Thillips formed.

As such, he has appeared several times on Tampa radio and TV shows.

me, he appears to bo an articulate defender of the Agency.

4. Conclusion: For me, this was a most interesting intorviow.

As far as results,

the interviow indicated to me that we can got

broad-brush overviews from retired Agency employees, and fow dotails.

To answer specific quostions from Congross and/or the Dopartment of

Justico, we must continue to dig and come up with docunents from

---

## Page 8

13-00000

ironey filos. Unfortunatly these documents appear lo be nost

-difficult lo

locate and robrime, many of thor burled in rotire!

file holdings.

5.

from

Recoimandations:

io should continuo to sock information

petirel deucy emplogoes, especially when it appears that the

which we are interoster.

This should be a solective procaos am

used only when so bolieve the intiroe could contribute to our

immodiate inpiry. The docunentel facts, hovovor, are still montel

•to answer questions poser to us officially by other Govermont

entitios.

LA/Ops

---

