# 104-10216-10115

## Page 1

104-10216-10115

scial in i0t,s 55

PAOCESSING

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, Special Affaire Staff

CASSIFICATIORA

SEC RESEASITIED

THAT

X I MARNED FOR MOTHE

80 MODUS MOLEST

tura

IMIT ABSTRACT

FROM

Chief of Station, MAVs

SUBACT

TYPIC/Operational

ALIASE Cache Recove Plan

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

netion Required: TYI and Please Card Asterisked Names 1n

Separate Cover Attachment.

23 Mar 64

References

: A: VAR 1035; 19 reb 61

Per paragraph 2 of ref. A., the following is the

Engliah translation,

with appropriate explanatory notatlong

of S/" Message No. 6 which was malled to

Ar BaN- those 23 March.

This message contains the recovery

PIan fOr the AllASH cache which was emplaced on Operation

ANTRUNK VILI, 17-21 March 1964:

"ASG NO. SIX. MANUEL (AMTEUNE-10). DAVID (AMICE-14)

TRIED TO MAKE CONTACT WITH YOU BUT HE COULDN'T. THE

THINGS ASKRD POR BY CHARLES (AMLASS") ARE ALREADY IN

CUBA IN A SECURE PLACE. IN ORDER TO GET THRN, FOLLO

KXACTLY THESE INSTRUCTIONS. THERE IS A CACHE IN A

PLACE CALLED "LA AGUADA" (380528, AMS 4085 II, SEB

BELOU JOR ACTUAL CACHE LOCATION). THERB IS A PRIEND

OF DAVID WHO IS A FISHERMAN WEO CAN GET Ale THESE

THINGS IN THIS PLACE CONSISTING OF FOUR PACKAGES. 1H0

BIG CANS WITH WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES, AlL FOR YOU

(ANTASI CACHE), ONE CREEN SQJARE OIL CAN VITE RADIO

(8T-48 AND COMPATIBLE EQUIPHENT) IN THE BOTTON TO BE

Attachnent:

DATE OSPAUCHED

DATE TYPED

IDEN Sheet - USC

26 Mar 64

Distribution:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMER

VYGA- 14996

NEARNTERS LE NUNNER

auss

106-84/36°

11175.*

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Chief, Spocial Affaire Staff

CLASSIFICATION

8 E C RIESEMSITIZED

HEAT

PRO

PROCESSING

BAOSED FOR MOCKINE

NO MADDONE REQUIRED

ORET QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESI

CAN BUDGE MODEMA

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

1 -58:70

INFO

FROm

Chief of Station, JHAVE

SUBPECT

TYPIC/Operational

AllAsH Cache Recovery Plan

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: FYI and Please Card Asterisked Names in

Separate Cover Attachment.

References

WAVR 4035,

23 Mar 64

B. WAVE 2281, 19 Feb 64

1. Per paragraph 2 of rel. A., the following is the

Inglish translation, with appropriate explanatory notations

In parentheses, of S/W Message No. 6 which uns miled to

AITRUNE-10 on 23 March.

PIan for the Allast cache which was emplaced on Operation

ANTRUNK VIII, 17-21 March 1964:

33365

*ISG NO. SIX. MANUEL (ANTRUNE-10). DAVID (ANICE 14)

TRIKD TO MAKE CONTACT WITH YOU BUT HE COULDN*T. THE

THINGS ASKED FOR BY CHARLES (AMLA8H-1) BR ALRRADY IN

CUBA IN A SECURE PLACE. IN ORDER TO GET THEN, FOLLOW

*XACTLY THESE INSTRUCTIONS. THERE IS A CACHE IN A

PLACE CALLED "IA AGUADA" (380528, AHS 4085 II, SBE

BLOW FOR ACTUAL CACHE LOCATION). THERE IS A FRIEND

OF DAVID WHO IS A YISHERMAN WHO CAN GET ALL, THESE

THINGS IN THIS PLACE CONSISTING OF FOUR PACKAGES. THO

BIG CANS WITH WRAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES, All. FOR YOU

(AILASH CACHLE) • ONE GREEN SQUARE OIL CAN WITH RADIO

(RT-18 AND COXPATIBLE EQUIPMENT) IN THE BOTTOM TO BE

Attachment:

IDEN Sheet - USC

Distribution:

• - CISAS

watt.

USC!

"CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

26 Mar 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE DESPATCHED

143 2 ÷ 154

UTGA 14996

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSINC

BEGENGITIZED

SECRE

196-84/3-1-

---

## Page 3

14-00000

. CONTNUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SIC RESISTIE

in tras

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANS NUMBE

UPGA 14996

KEPT BY CARLOS (ANTRUNK-11) IN HIS HOUSE UNTIL FUETHI

NOTICE. ONS SATCHEL WITH S/ CARBONS AND PILLS

(2 BETS OF BACH) IN BLACK (WATERPROOF) ENVELOPE TO BE

SPLIT BETWEEN YOU AND CARLOS AND TO SHALE (OIL) CANS

(CONCKALUINT DEVICES) WITH RADIO RECRIVERS IN THE BOTTOM

OF EACH (RE-14 OT TL RECEIVERS) • THE BOTTONS UNSCRET VITA

REVERSE TERRAD TO THE RIGHT TO OPEN. THE ONE WITH A RKD

MARK IS TO BE KEPT BY CARLOS FOR DAVID, THE OTIR IS FOR

YOU. INSTRUCTIONS FOR ITS USE AND SCHEDULES ARE INSIDE

(SIGPLAN BABUM, 2130 HOURS LOCAL, SUNDATS, ACTIVATED 1S

MARCH 64). SATCHKI ALSO HAS 1000 PESOS TO ER GIVEN ALL OR

PARTIALIT TO THE FISHERHEN WHO HELP RECOVER THIS CACHE.

TO GST THESE THINGS, FOLLOW BXACTLY THESE INSTRUCTIONS.

CONTACT CARIOS, DAVID'S UNCLE, THROUGH DAVID'S AUNT

(IDEN A WHO MAINTAINS S/T ACCOXIODATION ADDRISS FOR BOTE

ARTIUNK 10 AND -11). TELL HIM TO SEE PEDEO (AITRUNI-15)

IN CARDINAS. CARLOS SHOULD TELL PEDRO TO CONTACT CANDO

(IDEN B), THE FISHERIAN WHO SAW PEDRO LAST AUGUST IN THE

NAME OF DAVID. PEDRO SHOULD GIVE CANDO THE POLIONING

INSTRUCTIONS. GO TO LA AGUADA DE RACHADO (SEE ABOVE MAP

REF) LOCATED ZÀ RILQNETERS FROM FLAYA MACRADO. FRON THE

INTRANCE OF THE CANAL GO TOWARD THE LAGOON 1À "CORDELS"

(1 "CORDEL" = 24 FKIT) BY BOAT. STOP, WALK ONE "CORDE!"

HORTIRAST VIKRE THE FOUR PACKAGRS WILL BE FOUND UNDER A

CANVAS IN THE ROOTS OF MANGROVES NEAR A TERITE NEST

(37355304, SANK NAP BEF). THE TRANSPORTATICN ON THESE

PACRAGES MUST BE ARRANGED BY YOU (ALI). HAVE DAVID'S AUNT

SXND A TELEGRAM ASKING ABOUT HIS DAUGITTER AS SOOK AB YOU

RECRIVE THIS LEITER. SEND A SECOND TELEGRAN ASKING ABOUT

HIS SON AS BOON AS THE NATKRIALS HAVE BKE RECOVERED. GOOD

LUCK AND WRITE. "

The contents of the AlIASH eache are the same as those

Listed in Bef. B. mims Items 1, 1 and B.

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

140)

END OF DISPATCE

DESENSITIZER

ERYBATION

SECRIT

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

2.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

SEXARITE COVER ATTACHMENT

TO UFGA- 14996

DESENSITIZED

IDEN A

IDEN B

(See para.

UFGA-12921,

2, De hag

Attachment to

DESENSITIZED

REAT

SECRET

---

