# 104-10179-10018

## Page 1

104-10179-10018

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

C. 78

TO

• 0.0

9 21 A30 60

"DIRECTOR

03

AGNON, UH 9 EOL. MILLARO, IN DIV NOTIFIED 2245, 20 NOV)

INºO I DCI, 0/OC1, DO/P, COP, ADOP/A, S/C 2

SEE ROUTNO

NOV 21 03362 60

PRIORITY

IN 45370

POITY DIR ISO PRITY HAVA CITE YASH 1769

WHET

P=SH 1203 CIa 44195)e

+154 1725 (1N 44543)"".

C 1701 CN CN 500

1.

20t

MORNING IS NOV.

ASCAR-I

PED 10E ENISE ISLE OF PINES DEFECTIC:, PROSABLY RECAUSE PRESENCE

704

*STING COROJAL BUT DULLO, ANEMIRON ASKED RODES GROUP TRAIN

21 TAP YEN NOW MASH IN GENERAL GW TECHNIQUES.

SPECIFICALLY WANTED

THE: TENED FOR SHORT PERIOD 62-3 WEEKS) IN MASH AREA THEN INFILTRATED:

STATED HAD NO CAPASILITY HANDLE LOCAL TRAINING THIS TYPE, BUTE

MIGHT APRANGE SAB TRAINING FOR SELECTED FEW AND REQUESTED FULL BIO

DATA PRASPECTIVE TRAINEES... NO MENTION ESCAMBRAY GROUP REF A.

• 3. AT SECOND CONTACT WITH ANCHIRP-I ONLY MORVING 2A NOV, A-I BRaUGHT

US ISLE DE PIVES DEFECTION. FOLLOWS ADDITIONAL DETAILS TO REFS BAND C.

• Ao

IN CHARGE REINFORCSO CAPITANIA IMMEDIATELY SSY MODEL

p2150:1.

TOTAL STRENGTH 750 MEN, SELIEVES CAN INFLUENCE APROX 358

• "' C5 ADJACENT COMMAND OF DUE CHINO" C TRUE NAME UNKADASS, CHINO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFTICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Ne

6/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

*SH

• N

45570

• PAGE

CONCILARLY IST TO CASTRO.

LOOSELY IN CONTACT WITH MIL COMMANDER MODEL PRISON

" PEARSTLY VAGUELY SYMSATHETIC BUT USWILLING TAKE ANY EARLY

COMMITMENTS.

CO GASICALLY PLAY IS TO FREE MUBER MATOS FROY MODEL PRISON,

FILLY ISLAND GARRISON UNDER HIS AEGIS, HOLD OUT ON ISLAND LONG ENOUGH

TO 812 GET SUASTANTIAL OUTSIDE SUPPORT FROM. ANY AND ALL SOURCES

12) PROVIDE INSPIRATION OTHER REBEL 'ARTY GARRISONS DO SAME FOR SNOW

BALL EFFECT.

DO TACTICAL PLAVNING INVOLVES SUDDEN OCCUPATION ALL COMMO

INSTALLATIONS, AIR FIELD INSTALLATIONS, CIVIL ADMINISTRATION, MODEL

PRISON, MILITARY HOS RESPONSIBLE DEFENSE MODEL PRISON, MOS OF ALL

GARRISON COMMANDS NORTH OF- LAVIER SWAVP AND NAVAL STATION AT NUEVA

1GR0MA.

DEPENDING ON WORD MIL COMMANDER MODEL PRISON TO GIVE

AID NOT OPPOSE ANY SERIOUS ATTEMPT FREE HUBER MATOS.

THIS PROMISE

SUPPOSEOLY MADE BOTH TO MUSER AND HUSER WIFE®

MAS CUT IN 10

OFFICERS MIS COMMANDA, EXPECTS APPROX 30 MORE TO SIDE WITH HIM.

FSELS WILL BE ABLE CARRY APPROX 3, GOB OF ESTIMATED 5,200 ISLAND

GARRISON WITH HIM IN FIRST 24 HRS.

S. ANCHIRPES STATED COUP IS PLANSO BEGIN LATE AFTERVOON 2I NOW.

A. ANCHISPOS AGAJA REGUESTER AJO NEUTRALIZE REBEL AIR FORES AND

ASSISTANCE PROVIDE SU-PLIES.

COVENTED THAT TO HIS CERTAIN

KVOWLEOSE THE REQUEST HAD ALREADY BEEN PUT IN CHANELS.

ADDED

THAT HIS "PROFESSIONAL ESTIMATE" WAS THAT IF GROUP ACTUALLY SERIOUS

BOUT 2S NOU DATE, THEY NAD DETTER E5 PREPARED NOLO OUT INITIALLY

REPROOUETION BY OTNER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFINE IS PROMIBITED

6/BR

---

## Page 3

•AS CE VIE

ПООО0.111 9191? 9

:r9005:10801:7eT9 1080167179998 109 109779 3410

C711C71

MATES DIE LORD DO SISTITMING THEY COULS TO MELP. 13) ArOMAR-'S

M:99799IGHSL PECOHMENDATIONS CROAD BLOCKS, TIMING, TARSETS, ETC.Y

S! HC: TO ESSEOT SSIZURE OF THE ISLAiD.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:* MASH reported that AMCHIRP -! (1) stated that the group in

Escambray was ready and waiting for arma.

* MASH otated that a contact with Manolo Ray on the evening of

17 Novembor revealed that the lule of Pines was the target mentioned in MASH 1701

: (IN 44034) 487

*** A courior was advleed by Ray that about 2, 000 well armed rebel

forces were ready to turo againet Castro.

A TO FONTANNA DO TO ORA ENO

TIE I CRUNNA DEFINE IS PROMIBITED

---

