# 104-10169-10020

## Page 1

104-10169-10020

VISHAICHI

S-E-C-R-E-T

PrOCESSING

Chief of Station, JWAVE

MAINED FOR INDERING

NO INCERING RIQUIREO

INFO,

1 ROM

SUBJECT

Chief, Task Force/W

MEADQUARIERS DISA

CAA JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

ANCHOS ILM

ACTION AEQUIRED. REFERENCES

JMZIP/PM - TranniEral of Recomendation for Dab-lafing of DUQUE

REFERENCE: DIR 48927 (dated 21 March 1962)

Irannitted hereulth are the recommendations of the ICILUTTE

people for the dabrieting of Billo DUQUE Miya a DUQUR"»

questiomble LaliTtE ere.

(EID OF DISPATCH)

ACCOM

PLISHED

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orty

Do Not Reproduce:

Attachment:

do BEsted, MI (1) a

Distrlbation:

2 • 006, JAV

Finite to

CS COPY

201302008

DATE TYPED

DATE CIEPATONRO

22 Men 962

23 MAR 198Z

ANCI AND N

OPEN 010

HILADOLAR LNE PLE MUMBIN

201*302000

СИФІНАПА

o.w.Hicke

0977

NATINU

NUUTH/ROBLOETTAI

= 201-302008

RID/AN

RID/MIS

O/TIW/FM

Cathe tran

C/T/W

Matte

$ An

63

VEE PREVIOUS BOITION MIMACHO PONDICO CHISMOM NO LOO

03

DISPATCH

2/g0

---

## Page 2

Recamendations for debriofing of EvIlio DUQUE Hiyar

2o Complato blozraphso deta (FULL out a PRO$ or go over lio step l stip.

lo All pollisoul affiliation atmos 1956 - 11l organisationa to whiet

he belonged or with which he was in sympathy.

Jo Outlino m1l1tary and para-military carar - organimationa - namon of

operters - number of subordinates - hin sotivities • hin minnion and hou

he anoepliahed than - hia failures - demand apocifion.

No Relatives Inaldo Cubes this past and eurrent polledoal sympathies -

nore any imprisonod er, shot by Batiata? by Fidel?

So Arrest recorde by Batlata - by Eldel o by irtainal poliod, as oppored

Do politionl or seoret pollo - Crimos ho has cemitted (amueling, thart,

mader, rape, use of narcotion). Has he been blackantled? Dons he know any

eno uho could binoiantl him? Booret erinest Have any of hia relatives en

Solonde been arrested for these eriment

6o Controla vita Carrunlos Partys menbero or ayapathinero - make diso

(snotton betwen 26th of July Morment at Cho Did he attend Of metinge er

86 daly meetingo. Don he loon ary OP menbero? van he eres anted to join

the Pasty9 Did ho eror anne with the nine of the Pasty?

? Centeete wich Cuban Intelligence Beerlee (DDR-0-8) - ever arrested

by then a strande os so nortero arrated by than = did ho ever voris for then

en praise to vort for than a betray anyone do chemo.

In 10 nitod shas the LOTUTTER araminer nhe examined DUQUN In duruary

Joil einreodoriuod nan a ponenuing limited intosligence, and the oxeninos

and vory 11l0do baokpround information on him en mich to bane detalled inter

pegationa IVAIl'o unfavorablo rosalions in the erminasion vero not expladad

An any say by the subjeet, ma insiosed he ma emplosely truthtudo A detasted

dobrio fina ahould provido she mont operator vida the ensentsade for eerpeternides.

---

