# 104-10290-10056

## Page 1

104-10290-10056

0915:

1:':

{'€'

11::

Charlotte Baston: 1?

01128

5940

iz:.

a3 Dec 03

MEXICO CITY

CLASSIFIED, MESSAGE

3 BC B

E 1

::50-6-48/5

No

УDEc 63

MEIERIS

ROUTINE

MEXI

rien

21TE D1G

86695

LIBIGHT LINUD

REY MEXI 6888 (IN 64975) #

1. ALL INTERBSTED NOS COMPOSITS ISCLUDING RAPS LCIPROVE,

NYXIS AND TYPIC BATTERS HIV: DISCUSED OPS TALL CL DIVERIED POST

OPFICE BOX LISTING REQURSTED REF, TO MAKE SUCH LIST HILL COOY

BHKTWEEN SIX AND SEVEF THOUSE LOLARS. IF COSILED CHASSIFIED

AND HAS TO BE FUNCHED BY TUBARKERS WOULD TAKE PROBAEL NINE MONTES.

IP NOT CLASSIFIED AND COULD BE GIVEN CANDUS BURBAT OR COMERCIAL

FIRM HOULD TAKE TIREE TO SIX MONTES. ONCE FISCHED, COULD PSOVIDE

THRER LISTS, ONE NUNKRICAL HY BOX MURS, SECOND AZERARCAL EY

SENTER OF BOX, AND THIRD ALPHAMETICAL EY HANS OF PERSON BO

RECRIVES MAIL.

24s

DOS OP OPINION MAIN VALUE OF INFO COLLECTED BY LXLAYAX

24421200 2040

IS LIST, BY BOX NONER WICH ALBRANT TO AVAILASTS AND WOULD KE OP

(SK IN IDKKTIFYING BOX NUMBERS FOUND IF MAIL. INT

EPT PROGRASS,

OR PHONE INTERCEPTS. ACCOIDING: PAST KIPIRIXNCH, MOST PRADONS OF

INTEREST WHO RECEIVE MAIL AT 100P GPYICE EXES WENT THE 10K IN

ITAR AND RECEIVE MAIL ADDRISTS TO ARIAS, FARRIORS ALPAtTICAL

LISTINE TOLLD SE OF LITTLE VALUE UNLESS SLIAGES IDENTITIES.

+ 2929 09995819

i6.9e

---

## Page 2

Diatodisa

Beata

FEX:.

I NO INDEC

* 11)

FROM: GRECIOR

miss Jeber porn

148660-220

55 .

WELCHA

M 47 371 CATE DIE.:

AND ORGANIZATIORS.

FIAS RITES

TO SIS FOR ELVISH AND JEEZAN

Залука

IN COUNTS DIED

M00 1S 8 1

QUENCY OF XXPE

:84277.06 321

SUPPORZ TER STATION CE FANCA.

DE VICEY VIA TO VAIT

FOR THE MI

AVIGNO JANUARY LISTICS CAPINED TO IN SANGRAPE OU

REP 30 TRAT 1P REVERSE LISTANCS AS 1

"enear area.

, I HAS COPAIN

CURRINT FAKES.

•nos mino

I THIS LIET ES COI

UHH ACHIE

FOR PROCESSILE PURPOGES SO TEAT IN PROCESIED FOR MACHINE LIBTING

TEX STATION CAN RECHIVE QUICKER SKAVIC.

END OF MESEAGE

•-attached.

BAS/CI/Potocks

(drape)

WH/PO/A.

[drast)

WH/COPS

01. 1 It

O7$.900)

Conse, res

Donner dug a00..

SECAST

REPRIOUCTION DE OILÄ TIAN TE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROSSUES.

MELTILE

cw/3

IASTDERTICATIG4

Cope te

---

