# 104-10331-10196

## Page 1

1104-10331-70196]

27

October 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Chief, Information Management Branch

Office of Personnel

Security

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

AIN: 0351164

1.

The Office of Personnel Security was tasked on 31

January 1997 by the Historical Review Group/Center for the Study

of Intelligence (HRG/CSI), via the Directorate of

Administration/Information Review Office, with researching pré-

assassination files on Lee Harvey Oswald. The tasking was

generated by the John E.

Kennedy Board's desire to review and

declassify relevant material. The results of this review were

forwarded to the HRG/CSI on 27 February 1997.

During the Information Management Branch's

(IMB) research in response to the above tasking it was noted that

Volume V of the Oswald files was not on the shelf where Volumes

I-IV and VI-VII were located. A search of the entire area where

the volumes had been maintained failed to locate Volume V. The

IMB Files Section was subsequently charged with conducting an

all out search for the missing volume. The search failed to find

Volume V.

3.

In July 1997, the Oswald files were reviewed page by

page prior to being turned over to HRG/CSI and another attempt

was made to locate Volume V or to locate persons who might know

what happened to it. Volume V was not located nor were any

i in to not to per

persons located who were knowledgeable of its status.

4.

During the complete review of the Oswald files no

time gap was apparent and no one was located who could recall

ever seeing Volume V. This would

suggest that either Volume V

had been consolidated into other volumes

or that Volume V never

existed, but that a numbering error resulted in what should have

been Volume V being labeled as Volume VI. The use of Roman

numerals on the cover of the volumes might have caused this

error to occur.

---

