# 104-10057-10142

## Page 1

104-10057-10142

VIA

AIR

(Spacily Air de Sen Powch)

CLASSIICATION

DISPATCH NO.

17755

17: Sep. 57

TO

Chiof, WHD

DATE

FROM

INFO:

GENERAL: Operational/CI

SUBJECT

SPECIFIC : Possible Smuggling and Subversive Actlvities

REFERENCES

:

167127

2536

ACTION REQUESTED: none

1. Investigation conduated by HYALBY regarding eubjocts ofl 16747, In the

CHriqui Province haf, disclosed the following Information concerning these

.

b.

c.

gANcKeown

no blographic Infgruation presently available), aba: " Mabal

Mokone, Faed Stevart, and Fae Sproul, wao teued Britiah passport mambor

26080 at Ottawa, Canada, on 25 November 1940, and arrived with ber the

song,

Robort and Roy, at Balboe, Canal Zone, from Vencouver, Canade, on

26 February 1941.

Mckeown lived at a naturist colony near Boqueron,

Chiriqui Province, Republic of Paname, untll 1943, when she loft tha

colony and worked in the Canal Zone untll 1945.

31nce 1945; Mokeown hao

lived on a farm that she owns near Cuesta de Pledra, Republic of Paname.

In 1948, divorce action was instituted at the Chiriqui Pirat Croult Court,

David, Chirigui Province, Republic of Panama, Vy one, John Josople Spaoul,

againet Fae McKeown. Resulte of the action are unknown.

In approxinataly

1951, Mokeown made a trip to the United States and Canada, supposedly to

visit bor sister who resides in Northern California.

one rey lovers not

otherwise identifled, was gresident of the Channing Club, San Plago State

Sen Diego, Callforale, In 1947.

The Channing Club 1e an adjunot

co 100 alter an church novement in Southern Callspraia, bloh 1a 1956,

was Infiltrated by Communists.

Roy McKoown 16 presently employed by the Chariqui Land Company,

and vorke

In a banana field at Puerto Armuolles Diviaion, Province of Chirigul,

Republic of Panam.

Robert ricKeon loft Panama In 1951 or 1952 to attond college, alloged

i imag

in Canada, In late 1956 or early 1957, Robert Mokeown traveled frow

Maxico to Managua, Nicaragua, by notoroyele and had an acoldent during:.

the trip.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

/He presently rosides

ANENTURE GARB REPRODUETIONS

. 82, 51-28 A

4D000265

---

## Page 2

T3

SECRET

17755

page 2

He prosently fpaides la Manague, Nicarague.

Monte Fullerton of El Taloan, leu Callforala, Republio of PaRAS, BOVe

from that looation prior to 1957, and hie present whereaboute aro unam.

Harren 8. Throp employed Fae Mokeon In 1943, at hio atoro ta Boqueto.

Chiriqut Provinoo, Republlo-of Panans. Since hie arrival in Panes fros

the United Statoe In 1919, Throp haa becone quite malthy and Influential

through the property and businesses that he has aoquired.

I. During the courso of this invootiation Hanst has not doveloped any

Information on either Lovell i.

COATE (no blographio Informtion presonuy

avallable) or one Dr. Louch.

2. HALET l0 ot11l vorklog on this ouse and any results obtained la the future vill

be forarded to eddresseed.

PHILIP G. LULIER

17 September 1957

Distribation:

3 - Waob e

2 - Fles

PQL/ mgh

RODU

PARP

SECRET

56.6

---

