# 104-10247-10053

## Page 1

- 104-10247-10053

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproducia

SECRAT, KAPOK

far 68id 42-43

•Chief, JAVE

Chief, THD

Chies of Station

ONHICE-14

Action required: FYI

fererence: UPOA-17,794, 23 Septenber 64

: 1.

the station hat studied carefully the ANICE-s fle.

NICE -14 appears to be intelabsenti capable, well trained, and

productive.

However, the

tation believes that intlateral. and

ilaIson MISPAIN operations in the Meli of intveralty student

octlvitles

would not be aignificantly. euppleberted by the use of

AMICE-14.

In prticular NICE-l% would be of Mttle valje as a

univeralty student in the acadenie Meld in which he 18 prepared

and Intereoted.

This 1s already cronded with (BIOGENESIS KHS PAL!

operations and

MASPAIN operationa of other local services!

The

station has flien careful consideration to the question of thethor

AMICE-14 could be used by (BIOGENESIS los have other JiAVE assets

In the past. Le have concluded thät such use would not be adula-

able because productivity rould not be commensurate eith che

11eltatlono that such on arrangcuent noild impose.

Finally, we reluctantly conclude that AMICE-14 hould

not be a productlve intelligence assel In the operational siti-

that prevalls in the student field because he could not

hide the fact that he vas an anti-Conemist Caban:

Frederick C. NIND

Dintribution:

2 • JHHAVE

-C,4H

John di. Capparris/EJ1

dgn317331

GROUP I

Excladed fros " sonata:

donngra tIrE un1

declassiflestion.

net tort

2z

IS COPY

(RABA) 14.238

;. ..

5pa

=

---

