# 104-10186-10067

## Page 1

104-10186-10067

4

в 60

INFORMATION REPORTANFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

'4."

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00632-63

SUMECT

Luis PEREZ (alals

and "El Polaco")

"Bruno Diaa"

DATE DISTR

11 February 1963

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 10)

DATE OR

8 July 1965

INFO.

1964

PLACE ®

Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. December

1964

THIS IS UNEVAIVATED

INFORMATION.

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE CHADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

former Cuban 1S officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untal April 1964.

Hendquarters Commenta

The following

report 1s one of a series containing personalit

Information provided

information from the records of this Agency.

by the source and includeg suplementa

It is requested that the addressces tako no action on any of

the individuale

montioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Luis PEREZ, allas 'Bruno Diaz" and "El Polaco," 1s a

copiain in the Cuban army who heads

the Departamento Escuclas

especiales (Department of Special Schools • EE) In the

Direccion ceneral de Inteltrencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

In

1959 ho served in some Latin American

country as Military

Attache.

2.

PEREZ, a Caucasian, was born in approximately 1935; he

is flve feet ten inches

tall, weighs 170 pounds, and has

strong build. He always dresses in an olive groen military

uniform.!

Headquarters Comment

and Luis Jesus PEREZ

martinez,

attached hereto)

are not identical.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

*"Do Not Reproduce

'""

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

1

S:A' REP

NAVY

P * CINCIART CINCO

LAIR

1&.NS

(Nono: Pintal distribation indicared by a #")

INFORMI

ATHONTREPORT

INSA

120KX

Toca

FBI 2

INFORMATION-REPORT

UH. SỤ EOB :L/NE/5/R

TH SI MOBILLNE

2 CH/RALA

ILE

ILE|

JLX-2351;

LX 183:

UFGA 19020(9Dec64)

YO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

PH SA'CL

RIO/AY

0401006324

DOADINATIN

TOTALO NI SA 8(1), WE 1 (2), CI 1, RID 1

ATAISON +

46:3

1 1555

BLS • LO

C1, 001

MORI TO !

20J - 325598

ygol

---

