# 104-10322-10154

## Page 1

T104-10322-10154

OLC $78

4 August 1978

Executive Registry

05-9039/22

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with Gary Cornwell

I. Cornwell came out today to complete arrangements

for the Mexico trip.

After talking with his people on

the HSCA work area,

he met with Niles Gooding, Norbert

Shepanck, Martin Hawkins, Bill Sturbitts and the under-

signed.

Wewhad heard that the Embassy had not located

persons to be interviewed (but were told to not upstage

State) so asked if the trip was on.

Cornwell said it

was, despite what seemed few to interview.

2. The Mexican trip poses no unrecognized problems.

The HSCA people

will first interview Agency employce

Flores in alias, on Monday afternoon if possible, as

Flores is scheduled for leave.

Gooding will arrange the

interview of the safehouse person who has agreed to come

and be interviewed.

LIONION-1 is in Madrid (we explained

his recent exposure by the Communist affair in Havana),

and is not available for interview in Mexico City.

to locate ano

We

have not been able to locate June Cobb Sharp or

3. Cornwell apologized for the use of Agency pictures

without checking with us. He said he simply did not recall

the limitation that accompanied them. I said ve probably

would have agreed to using them, but probably would have

liked to influence the way in which they were presented.

I added that it provided an opportunity to speak about

handing out material, also saying that is an ill wind that

blows no good, as it

had resulted in identifying one of the

people. We told him the material would be available for

review

soon.

4.

He askéd about access to the Hidalgo OPF.

I

pointed out that the issue of unrefined access to OPFs

nad been the subject of a letter to biakcy, explaining tho

questions in the minds of employces about their

future

carcers.

We were asking for a refinement in the information

requested - what periods of service did they wish for what

toot the tir

SCOWAR

---

## Page 2

13-00000

purposc.

Ic +

the 1900-x

an asked if he could see

P Hidalgo filc

period. It was pointed out that the

intérest had been understood to be Hidalgo's period as

case officer for AMMUG, which didn't commence until 1964.

lle said he would like to start at the 1960-63 period and

go from there.

I replied that this approach would take

us back to where

we had been and that it would be preferred

if consideration were to be given just what is wanted and

why, and submit it in writing.

He said it would be out

first thing Monday morning and I promised first attention.

5.

asked about AMMUG's file. Messrs. Sturbitts

and Hawkins

explained the problem presented:

the record

revealed the extensive use of MUG after he became available

to us,

and this had to be reviewed in detail by a number

of differenta,desks. This took time.

It becane apparent

that they were really interested in the "Mexican" period,

which may suggest how the file is of interest to then.

240

6. He asked about Casasin's filc. Everything had

been agreed about his interview

in Paris, but as a

former

employee his file had

been retired to Archives and had to

be retrieved. It was now in and would soon be available.

As the HSCA investigator was not planning

travel for some

tine yet, there was time to handle this.

7. He asked about the Proenza file. I said that I

had offered to brief Blakey

cither at the Agency when he

next appears there, or at his office.

I felt that when he

inderstood the nature of the case, and what it wasn't,

he

I said we didn't

at it.

the

assassination of President Kennedy, which may have: inter-

ested. them,

but we knew why she was recalled.

He wanted

to be briefed, and I declined in favor of waiting to brief

Blakey:

I took the occasion to speak again,

as had been

several tines before in both writing and orally, that

there is a need to bring some order to the requests fron

ASCA.

We knew there was a loss of interest in some re-

quests--material had been untouched for months after it

had been made available. At the sane time, as time con-

straints grow, his young men

are setting excited and cach

feels that his current request should receive priority

over others. In the absence of stated priorities, we simply

have to work on the carlier requests in order to prevent.

a back-log accumulating; this will impair responsiveness

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

'':!

to bora fide current priority requests. He acknowlodged

the presentation of the problens but made no statement

(as is customary) .

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

Orig

1

1

1

1

L.C/ Subj

SA DUCIE

DDO

-

DDA

- OLC/Chron

---

