# 104-10104-10351

## Page 1

104-10104-10351

UNCLASSIFIED

"INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CE IDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

1O: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

7468

FFICER

NITIAL

AMA

Larry Houston

7D 01

LAH

JKG

3.

4.

7.

NO.

DATE

1 March 1968

Num i each co column a show i comment.

Larry:

This is forwarded to you

at Sammy Halpern's request.

As we see it, Garrison has

now reached the ultimate point

in the logic of his public state-

ments on the case since the

Playboy article. It's no longer

a matter of CIA having been un-

witting and then covering up for

agents or ex-agents. It's now

a matter of the conscious plan-

ning and carrying out of the

assassination. This is by and

large the Moscow line put out

through R. Palme Dutt--a long-

standing Soviet stalking horse--

in the U.K., Labour Review,

January 1964.

The theme was

later picked up by Joachim

Joesten and other sources.

The cables are self-

explanatory about the Dutchman

involved. The file entries we

hold on him here just add more

detail to the unsavory portrait.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3.62

610 USE PREVOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

• see:

INDEX:

D YES

O NO

CLASSIFS TO FILE NO..

X•REF TO FILE NO:.

PILE RID O

HET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY

DIsIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PEASON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

ELUDES FOLDE ASTON

6

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

EUR & ERD COPY

ELLE IR, OSCRI CAS, CA/NEL,

ISSUED

SLOPPED!

CA/PROP

15-6

13870

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME.

BY

27 FES 69IN5 9UE4

SE CRET. 271121Z: FEB: 68 CITE

DIRECTOR

KEYWAY

REF JOINT STATEUSIA MESSAGE THE HAGUE 3981 / m

1. REF FURNISHES DETAILS JIM GARRISON'S INTERVIEW

ON DUTCH TV (NTS) PRIME. T.IME 22 FEB: 68.

"2. AS REF ALSO STATES, GARRISON INTERVIEWER WAS

WILLEM L. OLIMANS (201-155221), LONG KNOWNTO STATION

AS LEFT WING, ANTI AMERICAN JOURNALIST AND TV PERSONALITY

REFERENCE TO OLIMANS 201 WILL REVEAL FACT HE WAS

PRACTICING HOMOSEXUAL DURING HIS INDONESIAN DAYS WITH

SUKARNO AND SHARTO AMONG OTHERS, AND HAS. ALLEGEDLY :

COMMITTED SAME ACTS NETH.

3. DUICH PRESS GENERALLY FAVORABLE TOWARDS

GARRISON INTERVIEW, MANY COMMENTS ON FACT HE APPEARED

LOGICAL AND INCONTROL OF HIS FACIS, MAJORITY OF

EMBASSY, USIS AND WOF IRM CONTACTS HERE AGREE GARRISON

CRED IBLE TO LARGE: PROPORTION DUTCH

1 VIEWERS.

/ SYMPATHIZER

17, FOR INSTANCE, HAS STATED THIS VIEW AND FEELS

PROGRAM: CREATED AN ALL TAME LOU IN US. IMAGE EN NETH.

its on mind te

SECRET

file Olt man

oy Rasp chiord

---

## Page 3

PAGE

3870 SECRET.

SECRET

FOLL FACTORS MAKE SOME EFFORT TO COUNTERACT.

PROGRAM WORTHWHILE:

A• AS REF STATES, PROGRAM MAY BE MARKETED

ELSEWHERE IN EUROPE.

B. ALLUSION TO POSSIBLY A THIRD PART. OF INTER-

VIEW ST ILL TO COME MADE ON DUTCH TV THIS WEEKEND •

Ca. FACT PROGRAM APPEARED ON NIS, WHICH USUALLY

MORE MODERATE, AS CELL AS FACI PROGRAM APPEARS TO MADE

DEEP IMPRESSION DUTCH VIEWERS WHICH. EXTREMELY DAMAGING

U.S. IN GENERAL, WOF IRM IN PARTICULAR.

S. [STATION STYMIED AS TO WHAT POSSIBLE/ST AT ION

COULP-TAKE TO COUNTER THIS VICIOUS PROGRAM.

EMBASSY

TAND STATION WORKING TOGETHER TO TRY TO DETERMINE HOW

PROGRAM ORIGINATED, I.E., DID OLIMANS ORIGINATE

MS SLIT TO ME A I SEEN MONEYE ALIEN

BELIEVES IT WOULD BE COUNTER-PRODUCTIVE AS WELL AS

IMPRACTICAL TO ATTEMPT LAUNCH. SECOND. PROGRAM ON THIS

SUBJECT CRITICIZING CONTENT OF OLTMANS INTERVIEW.

PERHAPS ONLY PRACTICAL POSSIBILITY IS TO PLANE VIA

SYPILOT SOME ARTICLES IN PRESS STRONGLY CRITICIZING

SECRET

---

## Page 4

PAGE

15-4.

RECRAT

3870

SECRET

NIS FOR THEIR IRRESPONSIBILITY IN PUTTING ON THIS

PROGRAM. BELIEVE WE HAVE SUFFICIENT HERE ON OLTMANS

TO EXPOSE HIS SEAMY REPUTATION, BUT WOULD APPRECIATE

IF AVAILABLE ANY INFO ON GARRISON WHICH WOULD BE USED

AS EACKGROUND SHOWING HIM AS PSYCHOPATH SWE UNDERSTAND

HE WAS DISCHARGED FROM U.S. ARMY ON THESE GROUNDS) OR

OTHERWISE REVEALING HIM AS IRRESPONSIBLE PUBLIC

OFFICIAL.

HQS COMMENTS AND GUIDANCE ARE REQUESTED.

SECRET

ther

---

