# 104-10166-10016

## Page 1

(104-10166-10016).

-....

- I

DIR E55271

12 FEBTS

12 February 1375

SUBJSC?:

Whereabouts and Current Activities

of Luis CONTE Aguero.

1.

?.

3.

On the afternoon of 12 february, called the Anthony Abraham

Chevrolet

igency (on

Sid 8th St and Lejuene Avenue, Miami,

-el: 414 - 3561) and asked the operator to speak with Subject

fy call was transferred to a secretary whe

stepped out a minute."

She asked if he could

return my call, but I said I would call back later.

Minutes after, I called Alberto BEGUIRISTAIN, a salesmar

with Anthony Abraham.

(Since c. July 2974, I hive been in 08,27

loose contact with Alberto. Has and

immigrant visa when and if she received a cemporary

permit from the GOC to visit Alberto.) Under the quise of

inquirying about his mother (she is still inside hobing for

an exit perrit) and offering to send him my new PO Box, I

discreetly

inquired if Subject still worked there. AFFIRMATIVE

was his answer.

In fact, he wanted

to get him to the phone,

thinking I wanted to talk to him.

I thanked him but said

probably come by another

day to see him.

I asked him

not to comment my call with Subject and

Subject has -for the past 4 or 5 years- been publically known

salesman for the Abraham

local Gliban tabloids have been frequent.

He also contributes

tabloids and the "Diario de

las Americas" newspaper

with political

articles and patriotie and pailosophical poems

las the une attached from tonight's "Diarlo.")

Although he

apparently takes himself seriously is on author poet

Intellectual, his calents as a car

salesman have kept him

from going hungry.

suld he has been a most

successful salesmen, winning many sales awardy.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

VAJ

---

