# 104-10121-10087

## Page 1

104-10121-10087

Ruth PrivE

ATTached

FBI Rots cita. 918+9/2456

Titha: Syluin Ludlew

Hyde Hott

(53-204; 5-1-54)

sciences derad

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Files

Chief, Research Erunch/02/SRS

PAINE, Futh

nee:

3YDE

sia: Mrs. Nichael PATHE

348201

5 Deceaber 1263

To lied Sutures

#4458201

In No. Crogat, FBI, On 4 Deeenber 1963 conflined that the Cubject

1a the daugater of Million Avery HYDE, SCD-157435.

Freer. ms Nantabed

a copy of tho 1557 investizative reports on lillian mIDE for lead purposes

only and sae informed thai wIllian IDE was under constieration for a

covert use by thie ageney in Viet Ian in 1957 but uas not used. (This

Information bad previoraly been obtained brou

C]/3TT).

2. Subject is tbe indiridual ubo is taking core of the widew of

Led Harvey Oswald and has apparently been quite vell knam to tbe widow

of lee Barvey Osweld and possilly lee Hervey Oswald for an undeterised

pericd of time. The posalbillty that Willian Avery HYDE bas the Fatber

of Futh PuNIs uas Inertously brought to the attention of Me. Papich

through Mi- O'Feel, CI/SIO. The Seerity fIle Of HIJlIAn HIDE contala

a Cory of a 1956 FBI Investigative Report (SPURTIY OF COVRINENE EPIOTRES)

on Sylvia Intion 3089, aks: Krs- John I. JOIB, Dee: Sylola Lullow XYDI, ba

1s the sIster ol TEN PATE. Me 11le of WIllian EUE also contados ar:1956

OSI report on sylria BOXE.

3, In sadition to the above, 1t tas previously knome that hillen

Avery EYD3 and vife Carol EDE vre esacciates in ibe late 1920'3 and

Ixter of Talbot BIETAPETI, 129931, who is currently enloyed by this

Agency In FDD. A certaia mount of infomation oncerning willtan FIDE.

caro. adE and otber associates of MDE and Alaken during the latter

1220's was furnithed by Talbot BRIFElT during Interriens several rears

230 =

At that tine the BlahT Case was under extensive Investigation.

Entice I, Solis

S20XG1

constit

---

