# 104-10431-10105

## Page 1

104-10431-10105

1 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Advisory Group

THROUGH

Deputy Director for Operations

Deputy Director for Administration

FROM

Charles A. Briggs, DDO Information Review Officer

Harold G. Bean, DDA Assistant for Information

SUBJECT

Need for an Agency-Level Central Mechanism

for Policy Review and Release of Potentially

Controversial and Publicity Generating

Information

240459':

Issue: To a growing degree, newsmen, scholars and others,

including particularly the Center for National Security

Studies, are better organized than the Agency to collate

and analyze information released from a multiplicity of

Agency release points. A central policy overview is

required to assess the total Agency impact of infornation

release, and to insure consistency and continuity in our

approach to release of information.

Discussion:

1.

External pressures for 'intelligence information

release have increased dramatically, and have resulted in

a flow external to the Intelligence Community unparalleled

in the first 27 or 28 years of the Agency's existence: The

Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts, mandatory declassifi-

cation requests under tO: 1105e, Congressional and Department

of Justice investigations, individual and class action civil

suits--these, and more, have been the vehicles.

Within the Agency, there are at least 15 Identifi-

able points of release of information to the outside.

Coordination with involved components usually does occur

but generally not in accord with a comnon standard, except

in the case of FOIA/PA and E.0. 11652 requests.

And then,

standards for sanitizing differ, depending on whether the

information is sought in response to civil or criminal

litigation, FOlA initial requests or whatever. •Standards

for handling names of personnel and organizations differ

within the Agency.

A new handbook soon will introduce

standards in the FOIA/PA world; nevertheless, cover will

EP5-77-170

---

## Page 2

13-00000

continue to pose particular problens to the DDO,

others whose activities support or co-exist with DDI

activities must share a comnon understanding of potential

problems for liaison services as well as agents that can…

result from official releases of information which tend to

identify station locations or activities overseas.

3.

We have as yet no comprehensive index to a rétrievable

collection of documents already released in sanitized forn

so that we can know what we have already done, should the

same documents come for release review in another request

or another context. The Center for National Security Studies

one have detonade done so to ray a reso

in which they allege that there seems to be different

treatment for different requesters).

Much substantive

information released is also available, commercially, from

the Carrolton Press•

There are many examples of what appears

to the outsider to be confusion, absence of sophistication or.

professionalism--or what could be misinterpreted as arbitrary

and capricious actions contrary to the law.

:.::

Conclusion: Some centralized overview, to assess the total

Agency impact of release of potentially sensitive or

controversial information is required to protect sources

centralized office as the

funnel for all releases as was

approved for mandatory declassification review; expansion

of the function of the Assistant to the DCI or of the OGC.or

IG. The option which seems least costly, least disruptive,

while organizationally located in the right spot for policy

awareness seems to be that of adding a senior DDO and a DDA

officer with clerical support, to the O/DDCI. Their activity

should be backstopped by a computer supported index. (or

indexes), with input from the directorates,

in accord with their needs to support their own systems.

Certain common standards could evolve, aiming at a single

system to the degree feasible; the DDO system will operate

on ODP computers with an IBM standard program and could

serve as an Agency system if input were decentralized.

Coordination: The principle of centralized policy review

and of an index of released documents as described, has

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

drawn favorable response

from OGC, IRC Secretariat, OLC,

IG, O/Comptroller, and O/DICI representatives, and the

recent Assistant to the DCl, MI. Falkiewicz.

Recommendations:

C.

That the Office of the DDCI be expanded to

include the policy revier of flap-potential

information releases described above.

That two professionals, senior DDO and DDA

Turo officers

officers (the former ranking because of the

particular problems of the DDO), be detailed

to do all Hus

to the O/Dict to undertake this expanded

retrospective

function, with appropriate clerical support.

searching ??

That: the ODP-supported DDO index to its released

documents be considered a service of common

concern and a model for an eventual single Agency.

systel, to the degree feasible, with non-DDO input

preparation by the using components.

That systens which for defendable reasons cannot

evolve into a single system meet retrieval standards

consistent with the need for the O/DDCI to provide

comprehensive and timely overview.

Charles A, Brisell

Mal Bea

Bean

Distribution:

1 - Each EAG Mbr

- ER

^ MT. Rettenberg

Mr.. Clarke

MI..

Lapham

Mr.

Meyer

MT.

Acree

• Compt

---

## Page 4

13-00000

THE WASHINGION POST 03 December 1992

MARY MCGRORY

Terminating the CIA

P up her ail cianidate he is

got it right about what was going on i

Rome, but when challenged by th

Justice Department, which is

prosecuting on different theory, it

obligingly revised its information and

did not tell all it knew to a federal

judge. Boren has now joined in the hue

and cry for an independent counsel.

But Moynihan does not discuss such

ransgressions when he presses his ide:

f eliminating *with extrem

missing the ethnic ferocity that is

causing slaughter and famine.

He wants the agency shut down and

its functions folded into the State

Department, not just because it was a

creation of the Cold War that has

outlived what little usefulness he thinks

it had. It is because on the central

question of the Cold War era, the

spooks got it dead wrong and caused us

to misspend ourselves into bankruptcy

competing with a pauper nation.

Moynihan may have a better chance of

convincing Bill Canton to trim ClA and

stuff it into State than he has of

convincing his colleagues in the Senate.

His recent attempt to give a semblance

of democracy to the secrets factory-he

wanted to publish its budget lost badly.

Democrats have not yet cast out their

fear of seeming "soft" on national

security; and Republicans, who hate all

government with a great passion,

become passionately protective when

cloak and dagger are in danger. Clinton,

at least, is anxious to save money. "He

could get about $5 billion if he closed it

down,

" says Moyhnihan, "and not a drop

of blood on the floor."

Some senators, notably the current

chairman of the intelligence committee,

are starry-eyed about "The Company."

David L. Boren (D-Okla.) earnestly

believes that the CIA is serious about

"reform." He lobbied vigorously for the

confirmation of the present director,

Robert M. Gates, from an almost:

childlike conviction that Gates wished to

democratize the agency and would

confide in his so-called overseers in

Congress. "I know," Boren would say to

doubters, "because he has told us so

much, even things he didn't have to tell

us."

Recently, Boren has undergone a

conversion. Gates failed to share his

information about the Banca Nazionale

del Lavoro, the state-owned Italian

giant and its little Atlanta branch, that

provided the funds for loans to Iraq, and

the burgeoning scandal about our

generous financing of Saddam Hussein's

war machine. As it happened, the CIA

prejudice" —CIA's phrase for offing,

someone who thwarts its purpose. He

does not recite the catalogue of crimes

committed by the agency when it was

being identified in the late Sen. Frank

Church's 1976 expose as "a rogue

elephant." The forbidden domestic spying

during Watergate, the infamous LSD

experiments on unwitting subjects, the

subversion of the Chilean government,

the assassinations, to some Americans

hardly reflect our values.

Moynihan, the most scholarly

senator, is a social scientist, and he

knows about taking the measurements

that the agency got so wrong for so

long. In 1979, without the aid of

satellites or any other sophisticated

intelligence-gathering equipment, he

figured out that the Soviet Union was

headed for extinction.

He credits a "modest" employee of the

Census Bureau, one Murray Feshbach,

who in a forest of statistics found the

tree that mattered: the life expectancy

for Soviet males was dropping. This

should not be happening in a country

whose growth rate was routinely cited by

CIA as on a par with that of Italy and

Japan. In one of their most egregious

bloopers, they figured that the per capita

income in East Germany was higher than

West Germany's.

"The agency was so wedded to the

notion of the Soviet Union as a

successful state, that they couldn't

absorb other ideas or realities,"

Moynihan says.

Stansfield Turner, Jimmy Carter's

CIA director, has admitted the hugely

wrong estimates; but Gates and the

others now in charge are incapable of

saying "Boy, did we ever get it wrong."

Moynihan notes "revisionist rumblings"

from Langley to the effect that they had

it right all along. It has to have been

their best-kept secret.

Why does Congress put up with such

ruinously expensive incompetence and,

year after year, increase the CIA's

secret budget?

Moynihan sighs. "It's the cachet of

knowing things that other people don't

know even when they're wrong."

---

## Page 5

13-00000

---

## Page 6

13-00000

---

## Page 7

13-00000

---

## Page 8

13-00000

---

## Page 9

13-00000

---

## Page 10

13-00000

---

## Page 11

13-00000

---

## Page 12

13-00000

---

## Page 13

13-00000

---

## Page 14

13-00000

---

## Page 15

13-00000

2099

conten,

---

## Page 16

13-000.00

---

