# 104-10120-10292

## Page 1

104-10120-10292

SECRET

41.32y 1863

Mile K-7412

CHO RANDUM FOR;

Calet, As (Provisional)

ATTENTION

Mr. George Ladner

Hillar.

Berand

SUBJECT

Multary Documentation

REFERENCE

Memorandan, Request for M1litary Documentation

1n Allas, Dated 8 Hay 1988.

ER 210 has designated the Central Cover Staff as the

responsible office for issuance and control of cover documenta

tion To discharge this responsibility, CCS has made special

arrangements with the Department of the Arny to approve andy

backstop a credential which Is unique to a atlitary unit.

arithta the Departuent of the Army to to type cove

32

credential in Issued only to accredited lavestigators of Ahe

32 Therefore:

It la Incubent upon all Agency components to utilize this.

document only when operatlonally necessary and under caroful

supervision.

By agreement with the Department of the Army, these

credentialn are to bo used under the following conditioner

..: PURPOSE,:

These docunents are to be used

is "flash" Identification only when maklog inltlal

operational contacts.

COVER STORY;

These documents are issued

by the us Arry Tlement.

with Headquartere in the Pentagon, Hashfigton 25;

D.C.,

telephone oxford L

B2 Each individual mis

be briefed thoroughly on the cover unit. Individuals

not brlefed on the cover unit prior to the issuances

of these

credentials should be instructed to report

to NCB/CCS as soon as possible for a briefing.

C•

COVER LIMITATIONS:

The

will always be used in conjunction with the DA form

1602.

It will be used for operational purposes only

24

and never for personal Identification.

6102

GROUP S

Excladed lisa actora::

Caragrating 2=9

ceclasslaratica

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Attached herewith, per your request of 8 May, 1963.

Are Crodential 1259 and DA Form 1602

028690s to

be Issued to

Bernard N. Hillary (A) S400

These documents

purposes.

" written

sItary to tacted set to tre estee toes the done

documents

mentioned pbove

It la requested that these recepts be

roturned to Military Cover Branch, CCS, as soon aa possible

JAMES W. FRANKLIM

JANES. FRANKLIN

Chief,,

Military Cover

Branch, CC8

ATTACHES

Credential

#359

DA Form 1608 1296963

Receipts

SECRET

Excluded Mad inerali:

donnare ting ard

desiassit mica

---

