# 104-10183-10350

## Page 1

104-10183-10350

25 January 1985

MENCRANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE Security Breach Through Exposure a

AMMUG-1 Informätion in the Case aCHIYSAGE -1,

CUNAVE 2 and ELLA DI

REFERENCES:

A.

MEXI-2270 (IN - 65633), 28 January 1965 (RYBAT)

B.

MEXI-2269 (N-65608), 33 January 1965 (RYBAT)

1. Ini the English version of the paper based on AMMUG-1 Information

prepared for presentation to the OAS, DGI operations were described with

the DGI case titles but without true names. At the requeat of the deske

concerned, references to the three specific operations were deleted

from the printed English version and were /not included in the Spanish

translation. The deletion in the English version wae accomplisbed merely

by drawing red lines through the text, leaving it clearly legible.

%. When the English version of the report was Inadvertently (and

without the Agency knowledge) passed to a Mexican government official,

the kiexican government became aware of Agency interest in the three

operations, since they had been first included and then removed from the

report test.

3. It la belleved that in spite of this inowledge no security breach

has occurred.

The mention of the operation, in each case, was a brief

summary, no true names were used (although the location and nationality

of the agent were given), and in one case a description of the person was

altered in a manner to conceal the identity (a woDian was described as a

man). There was no indication in the text of Agency interest, and the

only indication of it was the deletion of the description fron the final

tent.

RETURN TOCIA

Background Use. Only

da. Do Not Reprodico

WH/SA/CI

03

DC/ WH/SA/CT

vap

25Jan85

SAD

---

## Page 2

1.1-00000

tad "iis

VNd: ddtaridd

20:0r EsudeNco

---

