# 104-10005-10287

## Page 1

1104-70005-10287

WHEN FILLED IN .

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and

2. Destroy

forward triage: had Us

unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

RD/AN

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il file no. and title shown are not proper, in-

sert proper file no. below and forward doc-

ument to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

1.

WE/5/S 4/32607

Croce

3.

4.

Ruck

Bramar

DATE

RECEIVED FORWARDED

DPHC279

INITIALS

21 скаф іг

64

120022

the 4

er

8.

9.

10.

11.

15P564

17, 3: 8ls soute % the

eI stoff

2t53-

feti nun trace.

384 Ph. rus tracs,

Oh. X.I track,

Document Number 897-39/

for FOlA Review on JUL 1976

WFA

14.

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

rong 610a

ABSTRACT

INDEX

PT/:

NI/

CI/RA

RID PHIC ASING SUSPENDED

PLEASE INDICATE HANDLING

X Rotain in

201-289248

100: Ruber)

D Inder as Indicated i attirent

O Dastic:

Sier: Docu

Integioted tato ito Citededs Systom.

Recert's

diese wong

Badl

Sigaature

Requircu

It Retention of Docuncht Desired for l'e

D'g':

"ali, Also Check

Tins Mox

NOTE: This Documont Will Remain Outside

of the CS Recorts System Until the

Desired Handling Is Checked Above.

and the Document Return-s to KIll

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

- DEFERRED

I DOCUMENT DATE

6 DCT 1964

201-289248

DOCUMENT NUMBER

OSMA

17954

SECRET

... (10)..

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SLORAT

INFO

Chief of Stalton,

Catal.

HE

FROM

chlor of station,

SUNG ® Crank Lotter Concerning Warren Cormission Leisurent

ACTION REQUIRED

Hones

For information.

REFERENCES)

C/WE-

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO:

05Atea7954

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

DATE

6 October 1964

RE "433" - (CHECK "*'" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO: INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY.

1, Attachod 1s a Spanish-language letter aidrossed to the Amrican

Ambasandor to Spast, and signad by one Intilin Polis, alleging to the

Must paragraph that the nuthor has sun intormation of intenast to

Impart. After oponing the second paramaph by saying that he had to

Pes Paris due to an indisorution comitted there, the suthor states:

"There (apparently Parts), la the homs ur sone Amarioan friends,

I got hold of an authentic docurent about the assemination in

Dallalle which they way vas swiped fron the Warren Connieston and

which la cortainly projudicial for Prousdent Johnson.

wood authority that thay are currently tryine to sall 1t to no leus

than the Director of "Paris-Matab."

Sontone fron the kimbasay of the

United Kingdon in Parte 1s Involved in the matter."

The anther Oloses by succesting that an advertiamnt bl inserted ta

a Endrid muspaper 1i thoro to any interest in furthor dotato,

there are no station traces on Antilan PIRIS, which la almost

certainly on allas.

Needless to say, thore 1a no return address on the

Jetter or envelope, which was mailed fion Sarcelona on 26 September 1964.

he are forarding a sopy of the lotter to l

for your Information and

on the off chance that you my have received sintlur allegationa;

such case,

would appreciate learning the detaila so that ve might

Inform the Embasay,

It might also bo usoful to shor the letter to the

ODENVY representative in Faria, but this ve leave to your discretion.

Tirothy F. Nogale

Enolosura:

As otated bove

Document Number

897-391

for FOlA Review on

JUL

Diot Mbution:

2 - COS,

2 - Chiof, WE

w/enel.

w/enol.

It-

10-572

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMATIO

51-28,

51-28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

2.01. 220re9i

ZOE 200J9IO9 BIG

CS GOPY

CLASSIFICATION

SECKET

4. 201-2892

PAGE NO:

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• osminenes

Goc

E1 querido Stonembajador:

Despues do ni respetuoso, saludo, paso a dec inteosue mate

miliala recibido muchos favores de este gran palp, que ou ers

tan dignamente representale permito dir gruesa Damperan

Sestarle un

asunto,

que puede serido la mayor inportancia,

Acabo de llegar de Paris, y por buenas razones el tiemose

prenia, y no se si llegaremos a tiempo Una inasoreoion alarco-

petida en aquella capital me ha obligado a huir repidamentes,

11, en casede unos amigos americanos, tuve en mis manos un doci

mento autentico, que decian escamoteado de la Comision investi

gadora varren, Vo suguramente muy perfudicial pera el Presidente

SI.

Consten mante

ei asesinato de partes se de

buena, tinta

1, 068

actualmente estaban en tratos para venderlo, nada menos que sans

rector de PARIS-NAICH, Alguien de la Embajada del Reino untaos ва

Paris Interviene en elijuegos

Lo podible gua a uda. len intereson nas giroungtang docel

hecho. Puedo estar en Madrid 01 dia 29 0to St es a01, engozcon

este anuncio en la seccion de venteo del diario Avendo anas

queles. Hortaleza 61, y recibiren mis noticias Ya veremos eur

do pues me siguen los pasos desde Parta

De su Exciao quedare amos

AntilAn peris

Al Sro ambajador de los

Egtados Unidos.

CS COPY

Osm 0-1295 4

201- 2792

DEFERRED

---

