# 104-10182-10126

## Page 1

104-10182-10126

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduca

5 Arguat 1959

MENCRAID. FUR THE RECORD

SUBNECTs Telesbone Conversations with Felchhar't 1n Mianl On 2 august 1959

1o Subject phened se at 1030 and said that the FbI In Miani had a

roport atzributed to CIA Miard which Bald that Major hillian alexander

vergar of the Cubes ar 19-Iapolmel da

plot to assuasinate Castro.

Reichhardt said he did not have

phore number and had been

sible to find out what the story was. he said he necded so know wint

06

on this matter.

Bald he would do so, and explained that the

resort in question care fros A'BOIR sho had fiven the information to

Charles Anierson, ill/fI, on I dugust, and that Inderson had transdited

16 to the Bureau Imediately.

AYSOAR told inderson that he had a-tarpted

to fIve this Informution to Folchherdt orally, hut that Folchhardt had

Ignored 1t ard asked him to prepare a tritten raport on the matter.)

2.

Reichhardt said that he wis out of touch with AliGAR who lad

told his that he was poiny to jew York and would probably stop in hash-

ington, but had not checked out with him before leving.

it the time

of this call I was unaware that ÄMBAR had been in touch wich kachington.

3. Reichhardt said that be was ort of touch also with itanes

"ortuondo, tie said he had tried to phone tunes un a runoer of cocasions

out the phone was not answered. Discreet Injuries In Miani elsc 1n-

dicated that Nuner' location 1s unknown at this tine. Reichhardt said

he 19 still holding the letter froy Col. King to lanez.

L Reichardt phoned se again at 1930 to gay that he had just

talked with ine Fil officer Investirating the resort of the alleged

pot to ansarsinate Castro. The fil man told hin that his instructions

did not say to protect the source, and that therefore he waild have to

hit "organ hard on the basis of the report. feichhardt said that be

was again unable to reaçh

and wanted to know fi the source

anould ve protected. He burrested that if we nant the source of the

report protected, the : BI 1n

lashington should be Informed in a namer

which would so: indicate that toe flans 151 arnt on the case had been

talking with Feichharut so trackly. Reichnarit also said thit the

jures: noods additional details on the cironstances surrounding the

procurement of the Infomation by iuoin in oster to be sole to interogete

5/04

---

## Page 2

SECRET

2.

=.

I told Reichhardt I would try and get hold of

hia phone the information as scon ae possible.

I finally contacted

it Ben Evans' home, passed the masare and asked him to call dalek-

bardt.

6. I asked Reichhardt to have the 'FBI In Miani complle the data 0s

herBell, 1f 1t had not already done so, and send 1t to EbI headquartera •

in lashington so that we could atudy 1: to determine 1$ thie individun

can be used operationally.

1.34

3/00

---

