# 104-10169-10058

## Page 1

104-10169-10058

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

D'UNCASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Ophenol)

FOM:

"TERMAL

USE ONLY

• COr DENTIAL -

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

I SECRET

DDP/CA/INT

I0s, on dorination, rooms aurbor, and

CI/ISN

eSTAN

EITENSION

7486

OFFICER'S

INIMALS

на

DATE

to stora

CSCT 316/01646-67

11 April 1967

scrole roto

DATE

MOVED

РОКШАОО

12 APR 1967.

Are roch comment

DeD

1'€ APR 1967

RIO/Fi

10.

DEST

ADOTRACI

CA/Ta

INDEX

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

THIERNAL

USE ONLY

.

UNCLASSIFIEN

---

## Page 2

104-10169-10058

CONFIDENTAL

14 APR 1967

503

Deputy Asniotent secretary for Security

Dopartrent of State

Deputy: Director for Plans

SUBJECTs" Intorantion on Shirely Graham DuBols and her son Darid

1o the falloulng intorastion vas acquirod by a regular, rellable

surce to spoke ita David DuBols (David Mocamo):

Ro Darld DuBols (bors David Grahan NoCanns) has been living In

Cadro, Egypt for a number of years and presently vorks for the

English-Languago service of "Radio Calro".

Despite a natural loftist

Blas, be dons not seen to be a political activant.

3. Dubols sold that his nother, Shirley Graben DuBais, also

seafdos 1a Calro, at a temporary address vich he did not sacify, She

plane to t1s1t last dermany in the nons futura end hopes to do to

Crownlat Chine sonotim soon. She 1s vory wich concerood about bla Satbar's

(the late 112lan Edvard Burghardt DuBols) Ibrary. 10 Ghana Mich 18

Logally bar property, Malla DT. Alpbus funtos remalned in Chaos end

ut1l bo vas expalled, tra. Dusals was not concerned about the ilbrarys

horever, ass bas non natod en Amertien levyor (not somatilled) to 11-

pulre into the courses of astion tha right take to recover the library.

According to DAVLA DUBOlO, all of the sIcyolopedla NIMICAl tiles era..

till la Canna, He end ble sother beliena that the Unlied states

•Dovorminat or Avasican privata foundationa ulfut take over the onopolopodie

profoot. la statod that 18 tho publicatico lo complatod, 1t sould ista s

0808 925/02546-67

DONTIn

DDP/0A/IKT/BJggkoon: u1

CAN ARENTS CA

2084 07, 83055 Anged 22 Maron 1967 (caBoN&/2)

Diatribution

orie. d 1

• Addressee

• RID/FILED (201-271141)

1 : 01/10

• AT/343/R

• OI/LON

}

• ON/ULO

•OI/R&A

1

• • OA/OT

8 - ON/INT COPY

Coordinated w/AF/345/R

Usiased non du, smalle

A MAIAS AN

decletpollenliad

2/00

201-271141

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

