# 104-10171-10013

## Page 1

104-10171-10013:

DISPATCH

Cales, fans Paras l

SICLET

PHOCESSING

64 20

Ciel of station, NG

ESPANGNCEA UNA 3707, J6 AEr1I 1S69

АСТТО • Por your Informallon

reasillad horarias aro ClA repario, mantora 134 EDraRA 149, And 136.

As Index 10 attachod.

ELD OP DISPÄTCH

Alcuchrrarsa (Berndta)

CL 156 (1.00py)

CiA Lados, la dupliarca

Dlstrllestion

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only,

Do Not Reproduce

SICR5T

I6 dor 6a

1954-3846/3

ME ATRUIR THS DE PLAGIEN

+025-23039

CAlE DETPITTNND

APR 2 0 1962

---

## Page 2

3-55.563

CYA

-

157

I April 1062

Chief, Fast Feree/W

Galef of Steiion, HAVE.

OperatIona? GITOGE

Dito, ScatLaso ie Duba

06

.08

on g Arril 1gu2,i

Mast Jead, telegionel

De bost 106

wag

Intervievedo

08

Sorce sold that during the rescludica te vt a member of the

Arter the zerolution he vent to the

Unlieroity of Orinic, Santiago ic Vibe, Ma: C:caucally become the DiE

In regari to his "crace di association he hai no

operational leaio, clatning that all contact wit. IR meshers terminated

111 1959; and he knew no one who attained any stature in the Castro

As DRE chief for Santlaco, the soursc clained that he hal 50

members who he conuluerci voll orsariceà and capable of any typo of

He cald that there were, and are, oiher nembers, but he doce

not conslues thei in the sane category wish ale 50 wo are organized into

le said cach cell has nine nen. Tere are four cella: in the

Unsiersity of criente and tro in the alch seidel.

4. He caid that he left Santiago in larch 1902 and turned the DRE

over to his deputy.

lie then vent to labana as! informed the DRE leader-

ship that the second In command hal takes over and he wes told that

Habana vould initiate contact with the new lesier.

"(lote: Since close

relations ere maintalned by the JIVE Station end the DRE, 20 atteryt

Has made to press the source for lanes and aidrestes, etc:, as this 18-

formation can be obtained in subsequent outsiie debriefings. The JHAVS

Officer responsible for the DRE operational satters was informed of the

source's

arrival and processins.)

Source said that at the tie he ier Santiaso, the remants of

the Catholle student organization was tryin; to make contact with the

DiE and he believed that by this tie this contact, has been nade. He

cald that the DiE nenber wio was followin this natter; and who vould

rollos through, was a blled person.

6. Listing the arms and supplies in the rossession of the DRE in

Santlago, tie source said that 1t has aout 5ú pouis of plastic renair-

Inc 0u: of a shippent r! 20 pounds which bas recefied fror the DRE 1n

liabana. Eo said the DRE in Sentiago places bass in places where the

expiosion should not tijure sojone. 1s fer as as are concernes the

source said that the DhE in Santiago has tea !y caliber pistols; five

38 caliter pistols; one l'-3j and one lor 847e

?. The source furnished the follo lo MilEt tipe Information:

---

## Page 3

CKA - 137

page ?

8.

ie caid that his famer lo in jall in Puerto Bonlato,

and that in order

"O try and set din Inse, the source went to see trai

clarzino "Anital" Castilla, the cilef of training for the Palna Soriano

lilitary Incannent, whon he knei pros their daye in the Santiao High

School. Source sade hio plea ain: "inibal" told his that before he could

act upon 1t, he would have to tels to the source for five hours in order

to deterine his political orientation. Te cource replied that he did

not cose to talli polities but to picas for hio father.: "inida)"

anowered that he would think about 1: and call the cource one vay or

soirie thought that this story eleguates

y descastrated the (Connist) Miesced orientation of tonial

D. The brother of "Anital" (rera En avoie) 1s "Dertico"

Cas:1110, first name possibly Alberto.

He resioned fros the aruy and

1a now livine In Santiego, but the source is not clear on "Bertico'a"

policical orlentation.

Plectra Lernandes, the wife of Mende. Coolnche (the

Santiago G-2 cilef), 1s no longer the cifil hea (conissionado) ot

Sant1a50., she 1o now the preslient a the federacion de liujuica Gibanas..

The scurce has glien a conplete nilitary nap of Orlente

Province to the DUE member he leit in charge of Santiago DIlE (sec pora b

Information 1s passed for sontiago to tle Die in Habane and:

set in tie loser, in tun, is to for era ta tuaranton to the steles

Source said that his contacts wio work in lilcaro report

that the Nicaro-layarl Arriba axe is restricted and thet uninows types

of military installations are beine constructed.

I. The foreign instructors In the Univeralty of Oriente con-

sist of C-echo and Calleano.

Ine Crecho have started a ne medical

school in the university and the Chileans have taien over the Business

Adainistration Courses.

n.L R

telson L. RAYHOCk.

---

## Page 4

3E C.RIT.

ATPACIPRIIT TO: UPC4-)9:6 Dalad 16 April 62

CKA: 2351 20RSO PApIOCTOLI CORATI l' 12 ANS: 200

(555 DEa - 38681)

CRA 2361 Oaollo Jullan Dussil Conzalo8e A 12 11S 027 (8IS UFCA - 156618)

CKe: 1970 8080 Ancorido Segums Casari A 22 87S 903 (353 05-24 - 1868/3).

CRi 1J88 Roul SAnShEl RodrIgueRI A 12'813 pTio

ASSE TERA → 3506/1)

CLA 2J91 JuRLInO Palayo duralo PereE POSUArCAI A L2 $3S 8,2 (SES USi-S8b6/5)

CRA LAOS RACON AlONARI A IR 893 PAL (589 UFRA - 9S6/).

CK1 142I Bellio Aajandro Acrecacter 1 12 995 966 (32S 3741 - 2916/2)

CRA 162s Hoccor do 28 Parerala Muerioss 1 12i90 361 (553 9728 - 39166/0)

CXe 231 Kanual SolaCOrSiller 1 22795666: 1858 ONI - 296613

CKA LUSI AntOnIo TaRLa GUTEOlEI CreSTOr À 12 $75 929 (55% UTOR - 3066/13

OU 166I Alojandro Polirlo Serscha CORRaloIs A 22 895.939 (555 UPDL = 1466/32)

CRA J6BI. Antondo Go Sanzos Harraros A 22. 903 02 6655 UPDI - 1966/44)

CEl 2491 Donald Arresich Boulore A 22:903 019 (555 UTS - 3866/158.

CHA 2968 AlBorto HemiAntas DolIs A 22 095 249 (552 ITSA 0 9945/76)

SECRET

---

