# 104-10162-10239

## Page 1

104-10162-10239

27%

6 MAY iN

DATE

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM I MIAMI

ACTION, WH 5/

INFO & COP, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

KHEI

2

5

03

Ill Vising intart ani

Ri Ble uhas ropy ds inficuled

WH DIY 239T59455644560)

startes D

Бытовле..

MAY 6 22327 60

PRIORITY

IN 36340

PRITY DIR CITE MIAM €79

1. FOLLOWING IS PERTINENT DATA ON TWO AYBIDDY MEN WHO WERE

DETAINED BY IANS UPON ARRIVAL MIAM:•

d8 DEC 1937

CUBA. CUBAN PENNER 37352 ISSUED IS NOW LOSS.

BO RAFAIL AUERLIO CIPRIANO C''INTERO Y ISA:A.

DOB 10 SEPT 1943

CUBA• CUSAN PO NUREE? 38414 ISSUEDS HOU 1955.

20 BOTH SUBJECTS ARRIVED MIAMI VIA GUEST AIRWAYS 3 MAY 1960.

IANS DECLAZED U.S. VISAS INVALID, AT FEARING S SAY BERNARDINO

WAS EXCLUDED AND PAROLED. THIS BOUTINE: HIS STATUS PRECISELY

THAT OF MANY OTHER EXILES HERE. LEARNED FROM AHRINS THAT QUINTERO

UNFORTUNATELY TELL INTO HANDS OF LAWYERS WHO HAUNT I&NS

- BUILDING LOOKING FOR CLIENTS AND HIS HEARING WAS POSTPONED

BECAUSE OF LAYERS ILLNESS. QUINTERO HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED

DISCHARGE HIS LAWYERS AND SO INFÓRM IANS SOONEST.

HOPE HAVE

THAI CLEARED UP TODAY•

....

• 3o MEANTIME AHRENS HAS AGREED DEFER ANY FURTHER ACTION

THESE CASES PENDING RECEIPI INSTRUCTIONS HIS HOS. REQUEST

YOU DO NECESSARY HAVE SP LETTERS ISSUED AND AHRENS NOTIFIED

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE®

РОН 1389 с

CAr.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS: PROHIBITED.

RETÚAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduca

Copy Ne

1.70

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE VILB YO

DATE

TO

FRON

ACTION &

: INFO

ACUTING

5

RE Fine (stress ant).

anto rosy fled as indica

* Indemna rebreis on

Marted 0

Ragnature:.

PAGE 2

IN 36340 MIAM 079

4 FYI: ALL U.S. VISAS ISSUED TO CUBANS SINCE 1 FEB 1959

ARE NOT VALID UNLESS INDIVIDUAL ENTERS U.S. DIRECTLY FROM

ÇUSA. ALSO SHOULD BE REMEMBERED THAT REGARDLESS OF DOCU-

: IN CANS ZOTADLIONES TRT ANY CUORN ENTERING U.S.

IS IN TACT POLITICAL EXILE HIS VISA IS CANCELLED AND PP TAKEN

ALAY®

IT THEREFORE NECESSARY INFORM I&NS OF EACH SP CASE

PRIOR TO ENTRY SO AS AVOID INCIDENTS THIS KIND®

END OF MESSAGE

FOR 81389

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

. Copy No.

---

