# 104-10172-10318

## Page 1

104-10172-10318

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INTERNAL

COM 'DENTIAL

• L SECRET

UNCLASSIFAD

*E ONLT

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEES

GOLUB, GAlEGAlY GE.

GERALDINE GABRITY

NO

3R/CE/R+S

201-150156

1355: X-2124

1 MARCH 1456

member, and

T. RING

Tilade

KS

sẽc EFHut 1a8a, 5 Tuge

22

ps/Inder

* RI/ ConSolidEtiaOsA MAR 1950

KS.

file except main"

201 card

10.

12

19-1

74 March r8

03

WE/I-CEL

the other 201-1581561

had anly one doe!

into this folder.

Deré

03

13 4

Julw

600 I

'Si/sAs (G, Gutrity)

Poss 610 "NO SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

ReoCAP and WEffErE infe-sorbined

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA

2u1-150156

AO0088#

OBFICE ADORENS

CULUS, d. KaL UOLOR, Gregarat

MOME

27

AOOREBS

INCOME

for at can so a con dia Poctio

OFIA-2210

as Kobynterg 06

milent

06

#E 1 000 8

PHOTO

[labrator -12°6" (ca.)

ca. 185 1b8.

3721955

Tonator

81 * 1008)

COMPLEBIDA

56 €

dart

alack, vav

Lor hairline; vell dreased with

Extracost Western put. 2(0715-2-13) Stakes

bead from side to wide when talking-

locat Ca. S'3l; elstening, clean-sheree

okta; 1o0ks Iube Uralatna Loty

peasant; black bair; atraight, brushed

Tarvater! ca, 1924-25

23 An8 23 19144-2350

"tocla

Fourierg

FAMILY

Wise 1n Finland, very attractive:

Nine Fedorovna

Do 1926, 85T. 5 10v 56 (0114-2082). B. 24 for 27.

OFIA -2356)

22

DOCUMENTATIOU

LANGUAGES COUS Finnish rather vell (Lobvate?.

_Subj's Finnish noticean

weaker than Iran Y. SERGEYEV'& (predecessor) (OFHA-2148, VACCINE/ 1) 01

Speake only russian a fantas according to oun etatement (OrA 24 9).

PRÉVIOUS CARIER AND BOUCATIO SOurce (Lotater)Ubaid Subj stated be had attended

secondary school and the "Language Institute." Subj stated he vas a

Foн2419

Col. In Sor Arry during W II & sav action in Laringrad & Moscow - vas

wounded 6 tims; Hele 16 lat foreign isigment.

PERBONALITY (WB80.

Clo

[amater]

yr8., but have had so success. Appeared pleasant to source, but after

somewhat ruthless Interver ulth some Minn mothers who were begglig his

to allow retura of their sons from USSR, appeared quite ater.

Soarce

thought subf was bard Comale, although ba admired the material accom

pilahments of lS. feels SubJ 18 very much a sor Coumle and 18 not

defectable.

fury. pleasant and Jovial with good sense or humor.

#0 44

*08; 498

4#0.

23)

---

## Page 3

AQ0#:81

SIFICE A00*888

SECRET

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA

201-150156

OOLs, GrIfarly te.

+8+8889998

•BATE

DATE OF. BIRTH

SIATHPLACT

# AM16.8

DOCUMENTATION

BANQUAGES

Ob

cort a

Strong poverrat handaba ba

mercing artifietal alnaces, 1e very excitable, pirtatious mad the

I-know-it-all type. Loves to eat and chabes hiu head tron aide to alde

when be talks, Conversation Implies that be 1o vell-educated and

morledgeshle on dip business, Marxion and current erata lavalving the

USSR, 118 Inovlodge of I1te beyond USSR 18 mager. Table mannere are

fair.

•(60)

498

SECRET

+ 801

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Replaced Ivan refinorich SEiuEYSV,

known RIS.

SUbI's fACE vAa fanIlLAr so suurce; hell fiven the dano source stato

D8-20-1239

that there vas a Li. Col. of this Last Deme in the NOB, Bounce did Dos

26 Jul 5T

now which directorate be vas in - might be techilcal section - bat

LZDIPPER2O

or that be = "falrly digi boss." Source could not recall ubetber

02

T24-2072

Nov 51

personally dee to it that the man left quietly & immediatoly. (V/1J01

replied in stern & angry manner,

"Since ben does a Little dipionat w/

los ran of 2d see presuma that he la so poverful as to remove official

of bis own country fron Minl! It jou are really that povertul,. ubo are

you agray de what are your real duties bere in Finl!" Subs disturbed

ald not purine, tha questior. (5La Comment: Sub's question intertatia

In vieY Of SCHORNING oper. Trying to determine date of chat.)

Neg for IAFDIPPER-19 Iden.

06

CoNTACTS gource lavited to fire Lectures on math in USSR. Soon after - labuater

receiving the invitation, he & wife vere in bar of Fela rostaurant, when

Súbg and fuu RASHE, & Fina Conde, came up to hia table & Introduced

themselves: Subj mentioned sourc"e imminent trip to USSR. Subj told

source to come to Sor Imb next day to meet the Cultural Attache, who

could arrange to get source to USSR & back without cost. Source inviter

Subj and RASKE to his home for dinner following Sunday. Both accepted.

Subj paid entire b1ll. When source vent sor Emb next day met furly

VORONIN & SubJ, AlsO SERGEYEV. V. invited himself to dinner with Subl

at source 'a bone.

SubJ, VORONIN & vives vent source'a for dinner,

bearing many presents.

RASKE did not come. Subj told source "this

RASKE 10 a suine."

Felt that 1t necessary to use these Finn Cormies

palitically but that they cannot be

trusted.

27

Subj had contact w/Prof [David Hecht (Fulbright), a Russian speatla

TOrEA₴ 2413

research scbolar bose Interest is 19th century Pussia. Mechtl through 9 Apr 57

H1111ker (Ch/Pol Sec), met Jane Kichline who obtained a report for Ego.

06 lecht reported that OOLUs very down on the An Emb di America. Wantod to

Ison about Anerican Ille 1a Dose, etc

[sohrater

06 Arthur. J. Lohvater,

(Debriet'ing changes some of the pointa.)

22

0)

VACCINE/1 Invited to & farewell lunch for Ivan Yellmorich SERGEYEV

LORIA- 2148

(mown RIS uho used title of Consul in Pinl at timed) 17 Dee 56. Aldo

present was (fru) COLUB, ubo vas introduced as the new Consul.

Subj

bers been in Finland circa 1 JI.

Subj a wife on

11et Jan 57 (ork 2215).

SPARRESTE

sou Hoscow 6 BoY 57. So mention of sally (011, 2915).

SECRET

---

## Page 5

Thote

ol

viniled bbe Min of eso Interler ringurity po

13 bar.

Bo consection witt bin; Mini i Iree cot

opo and right to talk vich sy one sbay al

In os Int asiod hin exactly sta? le mi udr!

sey leo etnino a sero a ragus scopoquite

aboutà len af ins Bold oulis, Il son nov bad

osplainta lo mete ho stould ause then throb

J08DI

Ja!!

Par 1.1

di ad 91 10: 09909

e operettonel tonte

0P922 30.298

30,2.r

9:

ratier

ea b8 siby ealled Veciale imitod h

A are in Paurarenta.

deumenta: ArInow thal an merlere Inta

atosthero sen

An: torinun Caprain' (Ci dia sor portabo:

sa Perirante.

POSUO MISTABERO 10

fr

end

and

LAB'

- на

tse joo if tepping trick er Soviora:

• of

Scardinartin: Seour lly chioft In HolD-la lor & ti

= THI LIRE (Svedes) + 5E157)

(Donnarky'& tin sos ChIo? attendod Di Dalda tais ve

Isa' toriera Millary bus 15 bereona vorting for thou.in Merl visioni enty y

appeas 10:830 Corpi Elpleintique:

al Bjors; che anor sai Ate, 1a tho man tho calla the shota for hulf anpiones

2, 'Arone poine: In era tale-W) ald te look 0, to task for latini Interesta. 1

/malametà joo. 1no storiatod Chat Mla Incararo vero paraly tiplomailo a

"han normal consular dutles.

OPRA

3168

114/3/50

DM:TE71 Braaloy (r.

e hear after un l.it h'e

! abour the errestlons fr langry (NAGYt

Dio did on i?

14hiAr.1g9797810; Juatas

Contacta continued

---

## Page 6

14-00000

3H100021

s0008 (0003)

ОГНА 1177 %

2a Jan 5e

0l

frielala fros auden lent Spring un Poll VASCIO on 21 son 18 tha

callad to to parada la Duodea so 1018. Suby Ma pronuno 1a dia shania

11ke phia tatos oure of. uben mabi una nolad by vAccore paro you

the liedest Intollions offloor eso au has la Mulandle subs procostod

that hlo lateronta vero puraly diplomable ant that ho bad no other thai

Sabi invited TACCiNE/D to bunch

cort himal Jen 54

,and told

him her much he leines coot

What goos and in finland.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CORTACTS - continued

Ascender Consular Corpo lunca on 10 Apr 57 pal apaba to Columbian

CosBul.

01.

A LVIpassed to statina.

voLus had fecently complaided to dobando

VIRCLAINEN that the Piss security police vere not paying any atta te

cases of British & American espionage in Finl, addiag that the Sore

had lufo ragarding lessers espionage in Fial & vould be elad to

turnint it to the security police. COLUB said some of the lestera

used vere ald & some dev.

officers in lala to de as careful as poasible cause 1t quite possible

security palice rould receive ordere to beep their eyes sharply peeled

for oper Invalring Firmiah citizens. Pendleton brjefed all sentor

COBARL people. ODUTY lisa unid he had rec'd a varning few days earlier

from & friendly Fian after that another ODulT offer had been seen too

Frequently driving & Folkswagen w/dipl plates around freight yarde of

Bele. (This me ODuur's epergatle factory di freight car marking

program.) The ODONTE inn said his family bad soticod Pinn policeman

an the beat outside his house had recently begun to do to phone boota a

ake a call ever time the senior ODOATH mn left his bouse and drov

toverds town. Everyose took varning serioualy. [V/ito tell us any

furtber developmente.

n 31. Dec 57,1

the Interior

sas tald that it bad so connection vito hia; Mial a free country &

people bad right to talk with any one they pleased. Min of Int asked

hin exactly what be was driving at - Subj was evasive & gave a vanu

nor-sequitur ansver which gave no hint as to what proof the Soviete vare

taliting about. Hin of Int told COLUB 1f Sor gort had any official

complaints to make be sbould make tbem thru proper channels. When asked

11 be tbought there were any deeper significance to these sor gambits,

D i VARIATION/replied that be did not expect the Sorleto to do anythta

more than drop tbese corrersational hints.

91213800

3 M 50

---

## Page 8

Mlilan L.

l m 49.

":=f..

Mawrd!

+1 1294017

+81-19497.

94.

haipos l'1aa

SOrEio5

Itir

G.1!'*.

hinself and aaked

art?ene

A"!!

-: 90.88%.

• Diia

W9 3

attrrenig

{-1aa!)

tro-roeiilei

040:0+19)

1ue9t1+3,

surh aa Moatillels hoer

!r. Ctros

i.°=8;

l tt baa18

hare a dipa srti?

titie

àùs?,

s'ihl tonelorinl tsre nla vito vg en shi

SoT inion anl

that bo

vas lirine al 0 1r his sre-9an?.

Sub! spoaxa no.:

Erz118h,

89 Flralah uns u9ad.

Itas coments

A phoso

pr19e

Ir u sils dieraictsei1lle, üreila and 6 crhora.

Photo sent to

SR/2/.5 :C9 ?1!1rgo)

a itidi an lin

---

## Page 9

-73538

Sept

01

On tie arener be ii

dianer

and paid

n.!

€040.

hal reail t"e?

030

n? h1g san

initlatire.

IL'"

has

describel

tao Inalder.

piaipil ver little creder

the

loft bohlad s: mal! risa

had neolled"@:??...e

bellere that aryrh1ns

fir

the Ministry o! intertor

protest comes fror

the the

weta

at

a brin t

*ang ayson

whie: bad :beer rigared:

talked ?o

SITIAT

him 2 luan ans had

o due CO)

accuracy. c!

?90

g°.*

47г:

• ч.

un::prg? 2aj

tha?

tere

Corregion

ris!

already denartedi.)

merled indigot man. Apparatay

the

Sovieta, or. at

• Least miny,

io me

The reason 'for

bellete yaplaya pull e Pory,

Hee tonio

thig doabe.ulnegg

that shen tre simping incident oerry

O 1vArabhad boen spealine toilah to torreyson.

nilia chouche 1r

that LAPID, sno speaks Pinnishull, ahoudl noe use Plat lampuage

In speakina to totroyson, uno also has a fair comand of fianiahe

213568

12: 38

= 30l

jutf

0/7:11

1: 18

w:::

1:11.099

rainlaust

Gang suji.

Io ti18 95

"":r

.3.

01

departure of CARIOSE lileo bla nee ma mentioned by G. E. GOLUS stri

(900 LOrA 3227, 26 Jan 1058, MOTO SO VOSTURBINO.)

22

---

## Page 10

14-00000

Flie

subjact,

Sordet Consul momlased

Conasla! Jarpa,

unico had area:?:a??

haj no Sinunsorsel

13 Cho Ca'l 08 1957.

MoRton? body, the Corpo Dad De Talla roason ln raiNBe LiE BaLry.

Sar as 18 known, do alder standoro doe representeraros dare sollowed

OCLUB Into ena Carpa..: !

f=7.

1.30

009 3-807998119

" spastent

•slee 8.

7E39N 1A SUCTI

• Metent: l0

-ap:

Sion Hen

1'6:

dox:

NOT LIN 1941

id dses:++940-19999480 1599 dr.

•ArANITE iN 3900.910

SAT

---

## Page 11

14-00000

L 2105, hE Apoll INT

future (thia statemen vas

14-3

[ma635. 12 :02r2977

he fiold fron last ine ind guid je ius think de l's u

and his unten stiest Enterian acco to Factoo

Fordlen Offico as cons: arymore tray his predecessor, I.E. ' ROTEV, vas.

to nito: 1sa: Go'us la= Seen adrised ty the Forign Office Cbat be:

Way " aCCredited ans dould Lake care of "ls raitor but up tO no GOINU bas

jail no a-feriair ti

STRET

(10D

---

