# 104-10163-10001

## Page 1

104-10163-10001

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

Reporto-

Yamorandon for fapOrtS

1as Novenhar 1966

Da 10 Morenber 1966, (ETNAL) reported Ubat Burablo AZCUB

Lopos, as off1e1al of the CNC, 1a fad up with the sogine and vente to lesio Cube.

(2-3 пов адо)

socorting to (i), AZul as recontay colled in y O el crENPuscos and alsost rirad

$10E AlO JOb. COlia SANCHEZ VAO ALGO CTILICAl OS AZCLE, AZCUY uho has been giron

the rospoRa1b1l1ty 08 the Parillion at the EXPO 67 11 Montrual had apparently salled

#éBorably la fulfilling hlo jobo CIENPUDOS, uho conalierad the EXPO BT asfair a

Tery vary important arent told ACUS ha hai "abendosed" the project and dona nothing.

AZCUS vas at the point of being firod unan ho producad a lottor ho had vrition to

an girt organization which ashed for ausintanoe and 1t had not been fortheoning.

Thio lottos apperantly "garod" AZCUE frras being surartly fired fron his post but

18 did not atop CIENFUFDOS SOM TOllOVINE ALCUE Ol dia responsibilitiao to EXPO 67.

Tate 5un-1n With CIENFUEDOS bas nado AICUE a TOTy blitar nas ("terriblemento dio-

sustado") and ho vante to get out of Cube as soon as possiblo. His present plana

ase to loRre Cuba for jaxico around the end of the Joar. AZUE plano to uso a bad

vertebras as "cover" to get to Maxico.

2. AZCUE has divorced his vife and 10 nou married in : 25 year

fold pais, who hed had a child to ha, saclite sorer wito thee lest known to be to

Spdin vità a daughter. Azcuc:8 8on 18 11 MarioG adudying arthitaotura. Ho airod

In lerdco about 5 mooke a80. AZEVS la not at all repentent so hlo formor ulro but

continuos to eriticiro her for having beon too much of an "old lady", (I-9) sald ho

belloves that AZCUE 10 drinking less thir he did In Mexioo.

3. AZUe has a sumptioua office at the CNC. (1=9) recently comment-

‚in Masdoo" ("To lo ambiaria por mi rindonolto de Maxicos)

(Ing) 8a1d that several monthe ago, AZCUE got drunk at an imbaaay

Sunation at the Last German Embandy and ha called the Germane there "fascintas", Thia

---

## Page 2

104-10163-10001

--

of course, caused quito a scandal and the word was all over town.

S. AZCUE and In Jaro intlasto friondo and (2j, 15 Do 18 1a Hordco

when A20i's arrivod plans oe nating contact vith bla. Prior to hle departure for

Maxico, AZGUE told (L=9) to getin touch with him friend "pal" in Moxico and toll

du ble flans, t.o. ArtITo 1n Moxico around the end of the year. (In9 resiscte

AZeUz and conaldero bla a firot class arquitect, (1) DeLIaNDE AZCUE lE rECEIVIEE

1088 than 600 pesos monthly, ACUE 18 sharply erltical of the gim, stating

on osa occasions "Esta os una

a... I so va para abado".

TJH

---

