# 104-10006-10240

## Page 1

1104-0006-102401

FROM: (Requesters name) O

SECRET

BADGE NO.

BRANCH

TO

RID/INDEX

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

RID/201

RID/MIS

RIO/INDEX

ROOM

EXTENSION

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST .

TRID CONTROL NO.

TUBE

ROOM

DATE

TINITIALS

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

DT- 5

DT. 6

GT. 7

DW- 6

GT - 6

SURNAME

VAKSENOV,

Lyubor'

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

Vasilien

(nee PRUSAKOVA)

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE

CHECKED

RESTONOV, VANESTONOV, MESONON

S. atriliation

NG DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membershi

fied formerly an Leungrat

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding Infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

to be placed in the

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b)[] Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

ASSIGNESM

YES

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

ILE T

E KEP•

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

TRID

I DESK

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are Note 2.

Information concerning foreign

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

public personalities (except mili-

believe there could be additional in-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

formation of value in these, records,

you must request an Archives Index

x7997.

search.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS, OFFICER

---

