# 104-10174-10035

## Page 1

104-10174-10035

-.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5 February 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Edward G. Tichborn (P) - Contacts in Los Angeles

In the course of his debricfing on 1 February, Tichborn

said that he expected he would be called upon to address some public ..

groups on his ingressions on bie recent stay In Havana. He went on

further to state that 19 he did not do so, he felt it would appear

strango to his colleagues in Los Angeles.

2. Additionally, Tichborn seid that the Director of Tourian

In Cuba had to13 His that American nuwspapermen, TV casters, etc..

were welcome and that 1f anyone chose to come to Cuba on such a

niesion he would be received with open arms and the Cuban Government

rould defray his expensés. He spoke at this time of Mr. Clete Roberta

and asked if it would be alright for him to speak with Mr. Roberts sho

was a good friend of his and pass on the suggestion. On both of the

above counts, Tichbors said that he felt 1t would enhance his position

should he be called upon to returt to cuba.

I agreed with Tickborn that he should speak it called upon

and that he could pass on the Director's of Touriom remarks to his

friend Mr. Roberts. On 3 Pebruary I checked the above out with

I. Oberst, WH/C/PP, who concurred in my decision. On 3 Februar

also reconfirmed the above to Michborn

Hi. Sau

Horace W. Davie

Chief

Political Action Divlaion

KVD: bJ1

Distribution:

-Or18.

- BUbj. 1110

1 - chrono

1 - WH/C/PP

---

