# 104-10071-10416

## Page 1

104-10071-10416

LASSIFY TO FILE NO.

C-RES TOFILE NO.

POLE MID

Плет. то

ESTROY

O$IG.

ISSEMAT

161)

SER MICE"

BRANEN

Taro capp

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

CLASSIFIED HESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRONIBITEO

NOTIFICATION TO ES C/C!

ADY.

Copy

ROUTING ANDACH

INITIALS

° SEEN DY

2440

File

HHLG

5

INFO%

VE FILE D DI E/FE3 AUDA ES/DO

• 2C

1325411

SEGRET 2918382 APR

68 CITE

9432

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

RYBAT WOMUSE SECUR

REF: DIRECTOR 93162

1. AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE ADVISES THAT MAJ. BERNARD

ACTION

M 00058

REHROPE, USAE ASSIGNED TO MACTHAI, HAS BEEN IN TOUCH

ASKING ASSISTANCE IN CONTACTING AN LNERGO OFFICIAL.

REHKOPF CLAIMS THAT HIS DAUGHTER RITA, WHO FORMERLY

WORKED IN BANGOK FOR LAW FIRM AND IS NOW BASED IN

NEW ORLEANS WITH DELTA AIRLINES, MAS TELEPHONED HIM FROM

12150 cale Stret.

Bret sor

at 1435

Ho 2 line

NEW ORLEANS APPROX EIGHT TIMES IN LAST SEVERAL NIGHTS. SHE

STATES SHE IS IN THE HANDS OF LNERGO. SHE, CLAIMS THAT SHE

KNEW JAMES EARL RAY AND SAYS SHE KNOWS HE WENT TO LONDON.

SHE FURTHER CLAIMS THAT LNERGO IS PAYING FOR HER PHONE CALLS,

AT THE SAME TIME IMPLYING, AT LEAST AS FAR AS REHKOPF IS

CONCERNED, THAT SHE IS UNDER A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF DURESS.

20 REHKOPE IS VERY DISTRAUGHT AND CONCERNED FOR

• DAUGHTER'S WELFARE. AIR FORCE ADVISED HIM THAT THEY WOULD TRY

•TO PUT LNERGO IN TOUCH WITH HIM. THEY MAVE ASKED HIM NOT TO

DO ANYTHING DRASTIC, SUCH AS SURFACING MATTER TO THE PRESS,

Missodiah

SECRET

09335

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

SECRET

NOOSE PAGE 2/2

PAGE 2 BANGKON) 9432 SECRET

AND THEY ARE REASONABLY SURE THAT HE WILL COMPLY, AT LEAST

FOR THE PRESENT. HOWEVER, HE WANTS ASSURANCES FROM

INERGO THAT DAUGHTER IS BEING WELL TREATED AND IS IN-OO

DANGER.

3• RECOMMEND HRS ADVISE LNERGO HAS FOR ACTION AS

APPROPRIATE. SUGGEST

ALSO PASS GIST OF ABOVE TO LEGAL

ATTACHE. THERE IS OF COURSE, POSSIBILITY THAT RITA MERELY HAS

AN ACTIVE IMAGINATION. HER REPUTATION WHILE KERE WAS

THAT OF FLIGHTY AND IMMATURE PERSONALITY®

SECRET

SECRET

/pr.

---

