# 104-10049-10217

## Page 1

104-10049-10217

n it worsen -

POTAL COPIES

23 - Your ar

SECRET

STARE PRECERENCE

8/F. FRE :

T 981395

E:1767

PAGE 01

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

SECRET BIZZOE JUN 76 STAFF

CITE

TO: PRIDRITY DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.

REFS:

A.

B.

(iN 937052)

SNOT SENT LASMIAMI; (IN 890367)

I PASSED STATION WRITTEN REFORT AND MADE

ERBAL REPORT. IN DETAIL.

N REF A CASE AND RESULTS.

ACCORDING REPORT AND

'"NATIONAL

IBERATION MOVEMENT SMLNI WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

IMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75.

N PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

UT IS SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

ATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

EPORT AND (I CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS. BROTHERS ROBERT AND

EFALO PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRACES, HERE ALSO

NVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

COUTRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN TO GUATEMALA

LLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 85) REQUESTS

→FOR INFO AS FOLLONS:

SECRET

2000871

---

## Page 2

13-00000

•SEC DISSEM BY

PER

MUNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

BY

REPRODUCTION BY

let bene

ISSUING

OFfICE IS PROHIBITES

FE COBY ISSUEDASLOTTED

N UNIT

BY

STAFF

RF . FILE

VR.

ION 18

N

F

981395

E1 A7 67

PAGE 02

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

A. IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PJEFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEH ARLEANS AND MIAMI.

CO IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUAJEMAL A.

DO • REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA. E-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLEGALLY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY. BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HIS.

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2.

resirabelines loi dealin

3.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Er DISSEM BYr

"PER

UNIT NOTIFIEO

• COBY ISSUED SLOTTEO

UNIT

RE.

FR=

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET.

RUN BY !

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAT

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMeTED

STAFF

VR

N

981395

E: 1.27

PAGE 03

TOR:932242Z JUN 76

IN 844357

win sein eine Streien cas p

5.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SEC DISSEN GY

NUNIT NOTIFIED

PER

1076: COPIES

SECRET

RUY UN

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THI:

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

RF . FILE

VR .

N

T 981395

E1A767

PAGE 84÷84

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

6.

FILE:

SEGR'ET

---

