# 104-10186-10276

## Page 1

104-10186-10276

INFORMATION REPORT MINFORMATION RErORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

"na material contain Intormat alecitay the NaBond Defenne ol the United siles Mier the eat

De 10 Explonase LAire, Title

18. UBC. Beca. 913 and 79e, the tronominton or rorelalton of which lo any manner lo sa unnutbaron perm to probibleed by lai

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SURECT Aridics ARMUNA

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00691-64

•DATE DISTR 18 August 1964

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES

3/PJ

• DATE OF

• 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. AURiSt 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEPINITIVE.. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Commente

The following report is one of a series containing

personality information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the records

of this

Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no netion on

any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

Indres ARMONA

charge

of the Haitt Desk

American Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion

Nacional (The National Liveration Department - LY) of the

Direccion General de Intoligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - Del).

Commercien Attache in Mexico. ,3,507"5,6,7,8,9 Cuban

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 8 August 1961, from a fairly reliable

source, stated that one Andres ARMONA Ramos had been

issued

a diplomatic visa by the Costa Rican Embassy

in Habana.

ARMONA was newly appointed as secretars

first-class to the Cuban Embassy in San Jose; he was

also expected to serve as temporary charge d'afiasres

in the Embassy.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nore, Field distribution indicoted by "#".)

NAVY

CINCSO & JENS

INSA

TEBT 2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMALION REPORT

#IT/5*7EODT

WII/SA/30B

WH/ SA/R

WHI/SA/CI

WH/WAVE

TOTALE

WE/5 R

CILIA

ALEI

WE/SADR

2

CI/R&A

13 JE

He/RASHL

NO FROJECT (ANUG, 1

CSC1316/00691=6.

RIDIAN:

LIAISON

ry.1

DIN!

COME-SNORELEASE

WAK: LD: sak

1r8/08.4

4

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SO SORBILE DISSEN

2.

A usually delinble source with goal contacts in the Cust Rican

Repernment

reported that one (thu) ARMONAS

was i Cuban 6-2 agent

based al the Cuban Embassy

du san Jose'.

ARMONAS reportedly

the sonor official who

went to Costa Rica with instructions

to reorkanire all existiny Cuban trents

This Information

received in a repore dated al August 1961.

This same

source, In a report dated I September 196l, stated

that (Inu) ARMONAS, thé Cuban G-2 agent in Costa Rica, delivered

• lecture at a meting

Cubans.

on 21 August 1961, sponsored by the.

Ho spoke particularly to a group of Communist sympathizers

and militants who vere chosen to go to Cuba during the wek

se rur deadle to recede weeks flustrucedon:

in guerrilla activities

1. ' On G September 1961, a usually reliable source reported that

ARMONA Ramos,

diplomatic passport number D/61/175,

arrived in Mexico on 15 May

on 5 June 1961, returned to Metro on 28 July 1961, and

for San Jose on 30 July 1961.

described as having been born in 1919, a mulatto, and married.

5.. In the 7 August 1961, Issue of the San Jose daily newspaper,

La Hors, It was reported that Andres Nicolas ARNONA Ramos, the

Cuban Charge d'Affaires, was replacing Cuban Ambassador Juan

Jose FUXA Saenz.

6.

A report dated 29 August 1962, from & usually-reliable source,

stated that Andres ARMONA Ramos, the new Cubau Commercial

Counsolor of the Cuban Embassy

In sexico, arrived in Mexico

on 2* August 1962, and would replace Ramon CUENCA Montoto.

7 .

A Moxienn businessman with close contacts in commorcial and

shipping circles

stated,

in a report dated 29 October 1962,:

that there had been no

euidence that Andres ARMONA Ramos

had replaced CUENCA as chief of G-2 in Mexico.

intellectual and.has no under

standing of commercial activities.

CUENCA suggosted that

transferred to the Cultural Soction and source

belseves that this will bo the case.

8.

Documentary Information received in a report dated 25 June 1963,

from a representative of this Agency in Mexico revealed the

following information:

Andres ARlos kamos, a negro who was born in Habana,

is the Commercial Attache

He holds

His wif

de Armona, holds passport

number E.62/637.

ARMONA has

two children. Fidel ARMONA Milan and Margarita ARMONA

Milan.

In Mexico City, ARVONA and his family

reside

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

9 :

al Pachuca 127.

A report dated 23 Apral 1964, from a fairly reltable source,

stated

that Andres

ARMONA,

formerly of the Commercial Office

of the

Cuban

Embassy in Mexico, is in trouble In Cuba for

having kept sch poor records

of expenditures;

he came

close to being thrown into fall. He has now been relegated

to clipping newspapers, clearly demoted l

He left things

in such an awful mess

at the office

in Mexico City. people

there are still trying to straighten out his accounts.

DISSEM

i 0.. =:

---

