# 104-10221-10220

## Page 1

104-10221-10220

In Reply, Pleaso Mojor 10

File No

ENTED STATES DEPARTNLOS DE JUST DA 31529

FADEHAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Mani, Florida

• APR 1 0 1963

CONFIDENTIAL

EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

(FRENTE ESCAMBRAY)

(CUBAN ANTI-COMMUNIST ARMY)

(ESCAMBRAY FRONT);

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

REGISTRATION ACI - CUBA;

NZUTRALITY MATIER.

0s April 4, 1963, Ml I-l, who has furnlahed te-

11cblo Inforestion In the past, obtained Information from

a sourco who is involved with Amoricon criminal elementa

In Now. York and Miami, who obtained Information from an

unknown source, whose rellability is unknown, but uno 1o

1n a position to furnish soma information concerniaz chia

catter.

201-143956

It was reported that in the lato evening hours of

April 3, 1903, Frank Anthony Sturgle, also known a3 Frank

110:n1, on Averican soldier of fortune involved in Cuban

suvolucionary activities, roportedly stated that until re-

contly, the "Violyn III" had been located in Naplea, Florida,

under Florini's control. Florint continued that an infiltra-

tlon albsion was planned by Florini and Evello Duque (matro-

nynic, nice unknown), vicrein Duque and his men would Infiltrate

Into Cuss to engage in guerrilla activities agalnst the cubai

CONETDENTIAL

GROUP 1

Excluded from aucomatic

downgrading and

declassifiestion.

211-242256

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONPIDENTIAL

RE: EJE CITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISIA

coverment, and Florini would later supply them by ali-

plene from the United States.

Duque was described as a

Cuban exile residing in Mlaul, Florida, who 18 active in

enti-Castro activities.

Florins claimed to have arranged for the uae

of the boat "Violyn III,"

and made the arrangements with

the omer, Alcrander I: Rorke, Jt., free lance newspaper

cas, to has been poriodically Involved in Cuban revolu-

ticaary scilvities.

Rorke agreed to allow Fiorini use of

the bout 1f, in return, Rorke's organization, U. S. Ereedom

rightera, would receivo credit for any succosa accomplished

by Florial.

Later, this boat was sovad to Marco, Florida,

on the Gulf of loxico side de rlorida.

Thereafter, Rocke

changed his mind and wanted the boat back, but Florial

clanced he did not know where the boat was, or where it had

zone.

Sono tine later, the "flolyn IlI" and anothar large

ise left the Florida area.

acter tho "Violya III" left fron comewhere on the

ant Cosat of Florida

Frank Florind, along with airplane

1lot Bill Johnson and Jorry Buchanan, an Anerican adventurer

zonico a small boat and wet the "Violyn III" and the othor

Large boat et a2a.

The small boat loaded on to the two laI-

der buats gasoline and food. Jerry Buchanan, at that time,

CONPIDENTIAL

-2.0

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: EJERCITO: CUBANO ANTICOMUNISIA

boardc. the "Violyn III." The two larger boats then

departed for an unknown destination.

Florint and Johnson

returned to Florida in the snall boat.

101 T-2,

On Apill 3, 1963, MIN T-3, who has furniched sellable

Information In the past, obtained sone Information from an

untested cource with contacts in the Bahamas, who obtained

Inforcation from an unidentified percon.

He advloed that 1t

was acported that several hours aftes Plorint was errested

on Normon Key, British authorities in tio Bahamas stopped and

buarded the "Violyn Ill" and arrested some thirteen Cubana

and Jocky Buchanan who were aboard.

On AprIl 4, 1963, ML T-3 advised that the British

cuthorities released the "Violyn IIl" and the crew, and 1u-

ccructed them to proceed

oxistially aparted she Worn it, chor bot valo

unknown, escaped and was being sought by the Eritish and the

United States Coast Guard.

CONFIDENTTAL

-3=

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICONUNISTA

On April 4, 1963, Florint reportedly claimed that

ho had been in radio contact with the above-mentioned uniden

tified boat, and it was tied up at an island in the Bahamas,

exact location of which was not disclosed. The boat was re-

portedly camouflaged

and heard the U. S. Coast Guard planes

flying above in in effort to locate it.

Florind claimed he

could supply this unidentified boat with fuel and food, if

Icquested by this boat, and that he had available an Aero

Connander alrplane In Miami and two fast powerboats located

sonchnore north of Miami.

It was not known what manner of

radio comrunication was used by Florini to contact the un.

identified boat.

On April 4, 1963, local newspaper, radio stations

and telovision stations in Miami, Florida, reported that the

"Violyn III" had departed from Nassau and was enroute to

Mlant with a U.S. Coast Guard escort.

Miami Attorney Charles

R. Ashmann made press announcements that the crew of the "Vio

lyn III" would not return to the

Usited States.

In the carly morning hours of April. 5, 1963, MI T-3

advisod that Ashmann clained the "Violyn III" would rendez-

vous with the other unidentified boat and would complete its

Infiltration mission to Cuba.

On April 5, 1963, MI-4, a representative of another

Government agency, advised that on the nicernoon of April 4,

1953, the "Violyn III"' left Nassau, Bahamas, on a general course

for the United States, and at that date was

at the noith tip of

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DBA 37829

CONEIDENTIAL

RE: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

Andros Island in the Bahamas. Because the "Violyn III"

was in shallow water, the U. S. Coast Guard discontinued

Its surveillance of the "Violyn IlI" by boat, and the sur

veillence was taken over by U. S. Coast Guard aircraft.

At about 8:20 P.M., the "Violyn III" turned off its running

lights and had not

been seen by the Coast Guard since that

time.

Mi1 I-4 Icported that there is a Sigma-type Cuban

Sigra boat was possibly the boat that was supposed to rendez

vous wich the "Vlolynn III" for an infileration mission 1n-

to Cuba.

There is an alrplanc landing strip at Willians Key.

which could not be used because someone had placed a great

on post chat net erase it mane

quaatity of rocks and driftwood on the runway.

On April S, 1963, Mr. Chester A. Holsh, Chief,

Investigations Branch, Immigration and Naturalization Service,

iami, advised that the "Violyn III" had just arrived at the

seawall, Key Biscayne, Miami:

The Cubans

aboard were to be

taken by. INS authorities to INS detention facility at Opa

Locka, Florida, where interviews were to be conducted, and

eny Unitc. Statas citizens on boid vere to be taken by INS

authorities to INS Headquarters in Miaul, where these Indi-

viduals would be interviewed for any possible violations of

Federal law concerning U. S. passport regulations.

Property of 2bI - This document is loaned to you by

the MI, and neither It nor its conteats are to be distributed

outside the agency to which loaned.

CONFIDENTIAL

-57-

---

## Page 6

UNITED STATES DEPANTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Plaiso Refr do

File Ne

WADHINGTON 8S D.C.

April 8, 1963

MICROFLMED

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

APR 1 8 1963

The "Violyn III," a boat utilized by loos. dachasE

Anticommunist Army, Escanbray Front, In Its anti-Castro

activitles, was recently captured by British authorities

together with a number of anti-Castro raiders.

The boat

and the anti-Castro raiders have subsequently returned to

Miami, Florida.

In this connection an informant who has furnished

rellable Information in the past on April 4, 1963, advised.,:.:...

that during the previous evening Frank Anthony Sturgls, who,::a

1s more commonly known as Frank Florini, a former Castro

supporter and an American soldier of fortune who has been

engaged in anti Castro endeavors since his break with the

Castro regime, atated that until recently the "Violyn 1II"

had been located at Naples, Florida, under Florini's control.

An infiltration mission had been planned by Florini and

Evello Dugue, leader of the Cuban Anticommunist Army, Escambray

Front, whereby buque and his men would infiltrate into Cuba

and would later be supplier by Fiorini by plane from the

United States.

Florini stated he had arranged wich Alexander I.

Rorke, Jro, a free-lance newspaperman who has been Involved

in anti-Castro activitles, for the use of the "Violyn 1Il."

Rorke permitted the use of this boat but stated that he

wanted his organisation, the U. S. Freedon Fighters, to

receive some of the credit for any successes achieved.

Korke subsequently changed his mind and wanted the boat back

but Florint claimed that it had departed and that he did not

know where it was.

il

019-9-9/

CS COPY

901247256

---

## Page 7

LLA 37025

iNTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

Sometime later the "Violyn III" and nothge boat

Theft the florida area. On the day of the departure of these

vessels, Florini, Bill Johnson, a pilot, and Jerry Buchanan,

an adventurer, rented a small boat and made a rendezvous with

the other two boats at sea.

Buchenan transferred to one of

these two vessels and gasoline and food supplies. which had

been on the small boat were loaded aberd these two vessels.

Florint and Juhnson then returned to Florida in the rented

911-25184.2

boat and the other two continued on their way.

221-25/312

Subsequently Florint, Johnson and Jose Marie

#Conzalez Hernandez, a Cuban radio operator, proceeded to

Nassau, Bahamas, rented a plane and flew to Norman Key in

the Bahamas.

Immediately thereafter this group was arrested

by British authoritles who sent them back to Miani, Florida.

Several hourg after Fiorini was arrested on Norman Key, the

British

stopped and boarded the "Violyn III" and arrested

Buctanan and a number of Cubans who were aboard.

April 4, 1963, the British released the "Violyn III" and ito

crew with instructions that they should proceed to Miami.

The other boat escaped.

Men deng tone at sai some mood as cools

On April 4, 1963, Florini claimed he had been in

radio contact with the boat that had escaped and that it wan

then docked at an island in the Bahemas. Florini did not

disclose the exact location of the boat but claimed he could

supply it with tood and fuel if requested and that he hed an

alrplane and two fast power boats

available in the Miant area.

=2==

....

.....

- 5r-tv.r 0104000494 d

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Cdderd100 60 J0o812%

10:1

: C:

2242256

10'"

Ca aces

26,

1633

iscascenccciva oda

552

mees antolmagendo invecságacions,

sire

s.

coisaves

Joa Zaid 2802542.

is dedo involved in fuben covalusierary

micsvissis

¿ tão gasa

viverno caia

== 6:00

O: Manch 25, 1985, = 1ãù Boos 109g

to rascavous wich

south of Florids.

to okara Cuzendo Provando do Gusabe, coudi cosss.

2ais Siosilla

siid

1:

• seres datio

Cadet

-0:92a0 estea

Carbono da Oitis

F222322566

2his. Operation

siid

267043

10vo100 dicaurad

cria.

CiaD

Jand aid a croud touddd by Cocandanca

Quou Peareo

.au.

oii Quone chág za cù aa

tours to Cusa.

This casset is co

cover ano cobust purpeda do coo conike Vaida de do pucachora

122822

Sisteu Ten

---

## Page 9

14-00000

2: 1542068 C2653

2222262263

sisse 519 forcia 2z6

ise3,

2993

derainaso

7c.

Soruct,

Tino

Laincidice Rincala

Unicod Dione of Aneleral Mibaracion,

catanicacida ta

Muscoss

d&0:

in coneros

17ani

4-047

Casano did

2aovineu,

macerassed

cad

card

beet

ming Dland 20

462030 Crears

arsi.

possand

ho piass

C:52n0

Josemeno deside and dired Cas

chas

Ano Orgendeccion

sute

congea mas comunicaccord tor

"io comarts

Concacanes

como Vitt

Zusson.

Vazio Soscaso C80e 66 20 Caso Cud C8S D66-5

anboan ony aranci on

n2c06: 02 222010200266 546

incanace trovince.

S3 7333

-2 -

---

## Page 10

14-00000

=•°

57060

C: 2252 676& C 206: 25, 250

iscásised tada cia joan où a beta Gaum en indésiduel

"':s

-Sãà c0oIEi0G t0 conciale.

assura capacisy do caray cuo tãù plans sisácia

le catches

Dãa specaricans sacca.

2088

aien

225802=aa

on 9p9aa0é0-5 taã0 Cuba ==

0z60H 55 42-000 C0c053102

1 12d 00s

==== =0 09 nose cano S92are 3090e du a Casan

mirand cac

aá montres de dse des

corrortes

0uned.

139A33

---

