# 104-10186-10416

## Page 1

104-10186-10416

RETURNTO CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NH/SA/C1

franuary 1964

MESSAGE E IM

ROUT:

D INDEX

84

'SECRET

DJ NO INDEX

• FiLE IN CS CUE NO.

MEXICO, IMWAVE

DiRECTOR

NOUR, FILE, DOP, WH7, CAZ, CAPES, CAlPIP

PRIORITY

2126.

• AMMUG

11226

REF:

B69 (EN 52564)

INO. PRIORITY MEXI WAVE CITE DIR

74950

HQS AGREES:

"TROLE: SHOULD BE TO PETITION AND MAKE DECLARATION

BEFORE OAS WITHOUT APPEARING AS PROSECUTOR.

B. ROUND UP OF G/W TRAINEES AND PRELIMINARY DENUNCIATION

IN EL SALVADOR PRE SALVADORAN MATTERS WHICH SHOULD NOT BE

RELATED TO

2. TIMETABLE DEPENDS UPON VARIOUS DEVELOPMENTS SUCH AS

MEXI RLICTION, TRIC REQUIRED FOR SALV TO ACT AND FINAL

CIA

Site

AGREEMENT BETWEEN 400

EAK AND

JAKE-PLACE-AS-SOONES-FEARSLE.

3 PLAN UP TO NOW ENVISIONS

ZES RAISING IN OAS:

A. ASPECTS OF AYMUG INFO WHICH CONCERN

AND WHICH'

WOLID INCLUDE TRANSITING OF SALVS TO E

02 MEX FOR MEETINGS INVOLVING SALV SECURITY.

B. PETITION TIN I AMMUG TESTINTO US XVOWLEDGE DO ABOYS..

18681-ded 1.01

dresses 1.

......

6/5K

---

## Page 2

C..9LX

CAU INDIA

MESSAGE - ORM

- SECRET

KOUTING

FOR DIRECTOR

CONF

INO

Page 2

TO

INFO:

CITE DIA

74950

AND OTHER

"ACTIVITIES WHICH POSE THREAT TO OAS

COMMUNITY AND CONCERNING WHICH GOES AS ONLY GENERAL

ENOWLEDGE.

C. NEQUEST TILATO

& WHICH KNOWS WHEREADOUTS OF AMMUC

KE ME ALADLE TO ONS. THIS SEQUEST COULD REFER TE

•LIGHT IN CANADA, SUBSEQUENT TRAVEL TOILt;

MIERE LE PROVIDED LFO OF WEICH COSSAS INTONIED DECALSE IS

PEND TO SIDOR ER TREE TO SON IST

CASTROP AND RETURN TO FE

Coordination:

WH/s:/CI

WI,58/ 5OB

1:.20/B

Nil/i

C.

ND

DC/:

¿AGASINO 0I01968

-SOLELIARTSOELENS

.•ECRET

S1BR

---

