# 104-10216-10411

## Page 1

104-10216-10411

DISPATCH

SUCEFOR

Chief of Station,

BEPO

Chief, M; Ch108, F3

Cales of Statica, days

BUBUDET

OparatIonal/DTVOUR/PERIMEN/ALOT

ACTOR REQUIRED IEUFERENCES

Latter fros AMASS 80 30m0° 1801

Destos Roguired! Bens. Ver Your letor tsea.

Beference:

18849, 11 June 1988

AMLASH-I

PROCESSINO

3320

BE MIDDLES ELITESA

CAA ROLL NOCKING

AESTHACT

B-CHOFUS

Horwarded under separate cover for addressons" Informtle

estantion 1a too Dontolean Repabile, but there la mutton of

emoral's recall to Outa and the shet that tiere wure no problem

upon his errival in Hayaas.

Pa1110 6. WHAT

73931

Lotter tron AASI-A (wa

Distrlbation:

3 - 1. Vatt

tabo

• mC, whatt.

8308TT

DIETE TYPES

10 June 68

CRAPEFEN SYMBOL, AND MANCI

LO3301T

PEDGQUAPTEES PLE PLANE

801-151072

QUOTE DIRFKTCAEN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

BICRBT

1O TROM C-306- 174M47-2

SUITICT ContaCtE in Spain.

gx-3309.

18 May 65.

[-3239.

J'ollouing do a tranocilption of the letter receivod by kiguol

Marlogues to LE In Spain:

"5 say 1955.

"FIlend Cucos.

•I as HIltlag thana lines ton OrensO UhaO I Cara tO FICTi

a son daya toyether ulth sard no do seill vorting haro. (20202.0°

ulte, uho lo an artist, to vortlog in Oranso.)

irat of all-nithough I laagine you alroady knou it bocaise

S.IbOILO (A1D0IZ0 LINO BIASCO ROdIIqUaT) tOld DE De Mould call you

EIDE PaIIO, lEE Do tell you that iscaty Monty lE J038 ILlo smiLi

callarreta lão mas socallad to cuba) had no problems when ho arrived

In lavena, uhich mans that for the the being there are so probles

•and that thore have been no leak».

"on the Sires List of May?/ I valtod for soma o1 the thingo valet

¿bad boon piannod to taro plaos, but thay did not. However, & iracIstand

that the loainlean problen might have alfected both those on tha inalie

and those on the eutalãs, thone on the outaldo on eccoust os thu 65105.

vigllanco which dust bave boon establlebod, nod those os the lasico di"

account of the gamial alert or restilation to quarters oscared as a

preventire seasure and chich satan any typo of no umat ipossible.

I savo coxplote and very laterantlay seporto en all that, spainentiya.

Luck is not very nuch with us, but as 10ng an it doss sot abaccon un

complately ve will surely attain out abjectives. I have very

Intoresting thinga do my bands, received through ou best allies on

the inside through too chameln which you steady nou so sali.

"Zeyarding the "Erlanda" (as you call theml, I hope the Doafnlea

altals will vero then up a bit and that choy 11ll soo their ener le

not in viot inn but Ilghe under that moons tay might thirs that

the Dontolcan affalo has boen a victory for them lt might be so. but

a lyrible vetosy, I con't say tale as erltole of thair actions in

santo soningo becauss, in the dad. it the the only thing which they

could do because that ching tould susely sara fallen into corsunise

BBCRES

---

## Page 3

14-00000

92-9309, C-900, 18 May 63 (coat.)

horis. But the thing is to provest thoee conditions. tron bairg

crested, na no one can in onta 11 there la latarvention. And to

thin' that they closed the doors to un for tha tely ta tales no

, would have been so usoful and vould have uncoverod all tho true

plottors of tha amricas, Mull, & hopo that at least this sill

bolp to opon troere of the "irlonde and that chale Infallible

co:pix will be able to tall apart those uno can really halp tea

17 tele straggle la the samlaptareas alllos, sot so exployees.

and thosa othere nho aleia to cooperate with then but who only rate

& living out of then and cannot bajp then becauna they don't deve

anything, as gon know that they are neen with conterpe by the read

man who have things to flaht with and mo ae villing to do it best

I to than, ploade sorgave this stabling, but 1 had to got it oil sy

chant. You understand thinga mol! and va sava asalogous fdeas

about the things of Cuba. That 1s say. & choos you.

"H01l, Curulto, give an embince to ll for so and tall him that

everything vIll alrya costina to so the sama for our side and that.

In fact, se have noves beta sloser to the endo I hope to see you

soO dI to harr tron polo daciv sa embrace fron your friend.

Mrite to no to Midrid bacaure & have to be back there on tha

Bth, by necesalty, due to things which & an esposting fIoo our

countsy®"

. 1:d

---

