# 104-10215-10179

## Page 1

104-10215-10179

_CT (TYPE NAME IN ROMAN LE

SECREV

#S - SURNAME

IN UPPER CASE)

ALISES A ARE SEE ROUNd H9J0X

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

#. CITIZERSHIP

5. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Information Chief of Cuban Military Unit

6.

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

7. PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

ACTIVITY

-EQUEST FOR GREEN LIST

NAME CHECK AYO

• 144287

DATE A Sept 6a

CHIEF, FI/D BIOG

ORIGINATING OFFICER

NAME

OFFICE DESISMATOR

SAS

ROOM, BUILDING

GH5506

EXTENSION

5409

13. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIORAL DATA

RECHECK FOR CURRENT

14.

INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

I ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

LOCATION

DATES

B. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SMEETS WHEN NEEDED

9. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT)

(WEIGHT)

(EYEST

(HAIR)

(RACE)

(CTHER)

10. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

11. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

NFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE SPECIFICALLY, GENERAL TERMS SUCH AS "DEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN A SEASCE THAT DOE

OT FULLY MEET RECUIREMENTS.

**JF

Sir.

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

SEE CSI 10-7

10 501

SECRET

₴ # 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

TO:

16005-13

DATE

FROM:

FI/D

A.

D.

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

A MEHORANDUM I3 ATTACHED HERETO.

WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FU/D IS UNABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

FI/D HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFORMATION ABOUT

THE

SUBUECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL DE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

Previous green list request from TEW/Ops Spt, 13 JUL 62, GL 126349 HOT

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT

INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S

FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

