# 104-10167-10099

## Page 1

104-10167-10099

ai

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

RETURN TO CIA

Bäckground Use Only

Sp Not Reproduce

•ATE

3,42

10 APa 61

BELL

ROM & MANAVE

CTON &

BELL 15

DOP, GOP, ADOP/A, WH 3, OC 6, BELL S/C

CLASSIFIED MESS+ SE

1.8

AmDip-

ROUTING

COPS

APR°

11.16572 61

CO" ICATE AND

COFFECTED COP!

ROUTINE

18 2630 A

BELL CITE VAVE 5445

eNZIP

1. VIEWED FROM WAVE AREA THE JOINT EFFORTS OF ARBUD AND

KUBARK TO GIVE AMBUD STATURE AND INTERNATICNAL RENOWN IS MOVING

ALONG IN HIGHLY SATISFACTORY MANNER. DAILY NEV DECLARATIONS OF

ADIESION TO AMBUD 3Y GRCUPS IN EXILE APPEAR IN SPANIST PRESS.

KERASSYENT OF AMBUD BY COMPETITORS CONTINUES BUT WITHOUT NOTABLE

ETPECT.

• 2. ONE POSSIBLE CHINK MAY DEVELOP IN AMZUD ARMOR, HOWEVER, ABD

THIS WOULD BE WITH RESPECT TO SUPPORI OF IT. BY RESISTANCE GROUPS

INSIDE CUBA• FROM BINIARIS DEBRIEFING VAVE LEARNS THAT FORMATIEN

05 AMBUD. WAS GREETED ENTHUSIASTICALLY BY MAN IN THE STREET IN

HABANA NOT SO MUCH ON BASIS OF PERSONALITIES SELECTED AS TO DEMOR

TRATION OF SOLIDARITY BY PREVIOUSLY QUARRELING FACTIONS. TO SISESS

THEN THIS FAVORABLE INITIAL REACTION VAVE FEELS SOXE POLITICAL FENCE

HENDING BY AMBUD IS IN ORDER AT PRESENT. EUPDENCE THAT SOME KEY)

RESISTANCE LEADERS MAY BE RESERVING JUDGEST ON AMBUD IS GIVEN

•NOTLOX MESSAGE NUMBER 15 CRIMM 4287) • (u 1995)

ALSO, IN RECENT DISCUSSION VITH WAVE CO, REPS OF UNIDAD

i:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE LESLING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 2

104-10167-10099

CLASSIFIED MES:!:

S2227

• 2630

PAGE 2

REVOLUCIONARIA RAISED NO ÔBJECTION ANDUD-I BUT EVIDENCED SCHE PIQUE

THAI THEY IGNORED IN ALL POLITICAL NEGOTIATIONS SO FAR. GEDDES] 05

REPORIS UR EXECUTIVE COSMITTEE HAVAÑA HAS ALSO BEEN DISCUSSING

SUPPORT OF AYBUD-I AND HAS DEMONSTRATED SAME PIQJE. ACCORDING

TO (GEODES JUR SENDING TIREZ HAN CONMISSION IU VAVE AREA VEES DE 1O

APRIL TO INVESTIGATE POLITICAL SITUATION AND RECOMKEND UR. POSITICE.

4O VE PROPOSE THEREFORE THAT AMSUD-1 BE URGED TO SEND

INDIVIDUAL MESSAGES TO CERTAIN KEY RESISTANCE LEADERS VIA OUR COMAS

CHANNELS. IN THESE MESSAGES HE WOULD REITERATE KIS DETERMINATI' TO

SPEED LIBERATION OF CUBA, VOULD RECOGNIZE PREDOMINANT ROLE PLAYED BIA

THOSE WHO STAYED TO FIGHT AND WOULD ASK THEX TO DECLARE THEIR SUPPeT.

OF HIS GROUP• SUCH MESSAGES WOULD LOT REPLACE SIMILAR APPEALS DECAD -

CAST OVERTLY TO ALL CUBANS BUT WOULD SUPPLEXEST THEM WITH ADDED

ADVANTAEE OF BEING AIMED DIRECTLY AT SPECIFIC LEADERS.

5. AS SUITABLE TARGETS FOR THESE APPEALS VAVE WOULD SUGGEST Un,

ARR, MDC, DRE, FORD, RESCATE, MRP, ACA (AMYELLS), 38 NOVERBER.

BOTH SV AND VI CHAINELS SHOULD BE USED. THRU LICARI VAVE HAS

ALREADY OFFERED MAXE AVAILABLE TO AXBUD-I A MEANS OF CONNO VITH UR

AND HAS LEARNED THAT NEITHER AMBUD-1 NOR ANDIP-I PROFESSES ANY

KNOVLEDGE OF EXISTENCE OF THIS GGOUP. IF THIS TYPIFIES THEIR AVARE-

LESS OF RESISTANCE SITUATION WITHIN CUBA THEN THEIR NEED FOR WINNING

FRIENDS AMONG THE HOME FOLKS IS GREATER THAN EVER.

END Of MESSADE

REPRODUSTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUEIG OFFICE IS PSOHIBITED.

Соу Діа

Z/BR

---

