# 104-10106-10522

## Page 1

104-10106-10522

TUNELASSIFIED

STERNAL

USE ONLY.

CONFIDENTLAY

IS SECKET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

APPRQUEL SOR RESCASE 1503

ÚBJECT: (Optional)

FROM.

Raymond G. Rocca

-C/CI/R&A:*

TO: (Officer designation, mom number, and

bullding)

1. Office of Security

• 4E60

EXTENSION

1653

OFFICER'S

INIMALS

DATE

RECEIVED

3/4,08

FORWARDED

NO.

DATE

1: March 19682

COMMENTS (Number esch comment to show from whom

do whom Draw a lina across column after such comment.)

3.

3-4-68

Tro tay

5.

%

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

FORM

1-62

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

-SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECNET

1 March 1968

MEMORANIT

SUBJECT:

REFERENC

arrteen and the Kennedy Momente

terver of Castiaon on Dites IT 6

Win Ls Oltmans (201-155231)

eat States

SIA: cable MCM 353

N2981, 24 70b9m171968

The H gue 3870, IN 89064452

0 4900

SUMMARY

perioranti. There do a

ponalully a a follow ap program la

Holland and replajo elen

retrop Grison's Interrew

Willar In Ottnant:

La a Dateli pro-Conmundit, although he preten

not to be,-ame

not to be and hotdato as nest to be or to bare been lettma

Connderatien la botag elven to torrardlag to the station et

The Hand vert do per let or for to Can ren ta v. 6.

DETAN.

1, Baferences state that on 22 February 1968 Garrison

appeared on Dutch TV (Dutch Television Foundatlos, NTS) during

prime time for one hour (time not stated). Neither reference explain

whether Garrison travelled te The Engue or whether the show was

taped in the Di.B. and sent on tape to Holland The Dutch desk belleves

that the latter le true.

* 6.

SECRET

Excluded trom aurematic

dawgrading and

destessifieation

---

## Page 3

SECTET

Zo The fellowles

n Carriers chirat

lorente dei

to Cho Entel

had

establinhment bocess

he wietim of a ClA Ne

SCHA

10 Be inte

of i vested intrei

I Che ride thI

verone one of Prealdent Kennedy'a lakt erdera directe

a rodriction bl troops there.

wait a in

8. A V.S. prentdent who brings the U.S. to the

brink of pence will sutfer Kénnedy's fate.

c. Amed why the progre

And been denigned lor

• Europeas audienca, Carrican sate that the growin

Inflorace o CHA on U,S, indla bad inado ll Imposible fo

ton to be hourd in th own country

3. Materines A anya Carrava, calm and composodi wal

welcome it to elepatter leveral lo ren eve treate rally

and sue a ence i not the de me get and is col e

facte, The majortty opindon anong Embassy, Usis, nad CIA personnel

al The Fague la that he seemol credible to a large proportion of the

Dutch viewers. (SYMPATHIZER 1Y leon that the program created an

all-time low in the U.S. trange in the Netherlande. Dutch IV alladed

to a third part of the intervlew, still to come

3. Carrleon was latervewed by Willan L. Olims.

synopale regarding Oltmans follows;

2e..

SECRET

10. 13.

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

#. DPOB 10 June 1925 Enres, Ibo Setteriand

one added a Tale inso but empelled for mental

19465

by both far untated en

Front idnirer of communlam*

1 An INs report el 1961 In bin nadren: lot

1956-1961 as 118-09 ASrdAvo.: Now Cardon, Long Istan

How To

a unid that they had yos to see a ntary wrttl

by telm, When he applied for membersbip in the UN

correspendente assoctation, he was inable to produce a

alagto elipplng in sapport of the application.: He travale

extennively, He has excollen contacte in mil Comments

outslen including Cuba

'The Faers Post ol 15 April 1951, with a

nattomwide readership, the

pterimad Oltmans as am 1

dinne trend ol the then Prenident of Indoneile, Bukra

and no barlag trod los Aro youre to arrango contacti

for Bukirne la Holland

Ma FBI tepoxi al 24 November 1961 restate

the above and adde that he had been separated or dlvorced.

from his Amerlean wile 18 months earlies bechuse "he li

not a man". He was lung with a male al the time of thi

repoit.

I Am IBI report of 1 Februury 1967 Includes

Intervlew with the ex-wite I'reda Bleling (dhe bad remarried).

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

unle

that bur

close flend

husband and Preiidant Sakara

nd thm

3.20

, The n

han band ta

rodaction.

and bodygu

Weh, Iam Site.

$300. She:

1195) I Come

Ame.

el windy

he looknd for

2eF

more he

He told this

vas to bed The tale.

her:

var, no van

meis, Her Ether,

d, learned that Olfmara had a polles recei

for

me ting young boys ta Aret

She obtaloade

Melcan divorce In 1960, She a

Immat intellectully n Comin

lo bu the ecia

none mystem of the futar

1Ol.129

3. HANS, 21 Detober 2966, anya olen

anticle In 1960 vinted Cale in 1962

nd perhitpe 1963, dey

ped Llenly rel tan wit

Chlonn it The Fire

In Mogurt 1966 be appledlor a Chicorn Mun at The Hague.

• An TAl report ol 12 May 1967 anya that Oltai

claimed to hive wiltten for Bam

in Indenes,: No ruch article )

6. Reference $ requested backtres

Carrion't mental health and performanc

unmary ol derogatory information from evert U. 8,

part year (March 1967 to March 1968) bad been complied in tempotes:

A decision will moon be made as to whether purt or all of thie materia!

sany be sent to the Statien for use by Dutch CA asseta.

SECRET

---

