# 104-10064-10001

## Page 1

104-10064-10001

DISPATCH

CLASSAFICATION

SECR

• E T

TO

Itiro.

FROM!

Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station, WEl/Miami; C/EUR; C/WOMUSE/SO

SUBJECT

(SMABOVE

ACTION REQUIRED - RSFERENCES

Action:

Contacts with Cubans in Canada

FYI

21-6

Reference:

20131, 16 June 1972

PROCESSING ACIO:

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILK

0/

1.

We are attaching a note from SMABOVE which describes

contacts with official Cubans in Canada. (SMABOVE) has identifier

ne dou von es, referred to in regard

to they, Venceremos

brigade as .

Louis tenry cones. This information was also

furnished LNERGO.

2.

Part of this information was also used as a basis for

the reference.

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Theodore D. NOLTHAM

Attachment:

2 pages

Distribution:

Orig&

1 - C/WH att h/w

- CoS,

WH/Miami att h/w

- C/EUR att h/w

- C/WOMUSE/SO att h/w

CRO55 REFIRENCE 7O

CISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUNBER

22

COCOA- 17008

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

I DATE

20 June 1972

¡NOS FILE NG/ABER

äefer

/pit

7390

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Attachment to (OCOA)IT!

SE

June 14, 1972

A reliable source acquainted with Cuban dission

personnel in Canada provided the following information on

the dates indicated.

5 May 72 - Julio GARCIA lutierrez, 2nd Secretary

at the Cuban Embassy in Ottavasinioraed

source that he had a conversation vien

a journalist from the United

States,

Warren DAVID of Montana, earlier in

day.

GARCIA then related to source

that DAVID, who was on a one day visit

to Uttawa, wanted to visit Cuba together

with two or three of his associates who

are also journalists interested in

obtaining material for articles which

would view Cuba in a favourable way.

DAVID indicated to GARCIA that there was

more to be discussed in this connection

and proposed they meet that afternoon.

Source was not in a position to report

on the outcome of any subsequent meetings

between these two men.

10 May 72 - Source advised that Oilda ARGUELLiES

Villares of Union City,

New Jersey a

contacted

the Cuban Consulate in Montreal

and advised that she would like to return

to Cuba after living in the United States

since 1956. Source received the impress-

ion that her decision in this regard was

prompted by her husbands death on 13

January 71 and the fact her brothers and

sisters reside in Cuba.

19 May 72 - Source advised that Carmen DIAZ Guzman,

6514 Schwartz, New York contacted the

Cuban Consulate in Montreal regarding

parcels he wished to forward to Cuba.

Source learned that DIAZ has a girl and

5 boys and appeared to be acquainted wiüh

Julio Alfredo RAMIREZ Otero.

8 May 72 - Julio Alfredó RAMIPEZ Otero, Cuban Consul

in Montrealsadvised source that Lou JONES,

an American residing in Ner York City was

attempting to contact him and could be

---

## Page 3

14-00000

- 2

8 May 72 -

reached at telephone exchange 685-4116.

-FAMIREZ related to source that JOiS was

to meet 136 people from the Cuban vessel

"30 of Noviembre" arriving at the Port

Source also

"'EBENA" in Paris sometime ago and had

also seen some friends from East Berlin

while he was in Germany. According to

source, JONES was expected to visit Cuba

on May

: 26.

He was also extended an

invitation for a social visit with

RAMIREZ sometime before July 172.

BORZ

---

