# 104-10127-10006

## Page 1

104-10127-10006

jow :

né wié

isoiims.tisia.

i SSbfie

wR. COO-4,

SD0: D0.

12'9/P

"STjFE

CIEFS EUT. CHLSN IG.

LCPO-L.

1: 0762295

FAGE 001

TOT:

2620562 MAY 79

CIRECTCR 220721

5 €

STAFF

262056Z DIRECTOR 229921

PRIORITY

MaX1Ct

CIT:.

LANINTEL RYFAT

REFS:

A.

FEXICO CITY 45116 0719651

B

DIRECTOR

224314

C

D:

MEXICO CITY 45093 0709303

CIRECTOR 222197

HOUSE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF iHSCHI

INVESTIGATORS INFURMED RFACTTEN 22 MAY THAT IN ACCITTON TO LIST

MENTICNED PARA 1, REF D. THEY DESIRE INTERVIEW FOLLOWING

ADDITIONAL PERSONS ILIST IS AS RECEIVEC FROM KSCA!:

IAXA LYDIA CORNLST EUSTCE SOTOO PECEEERE IERANIE A

LYNN CURAN

GEN.

JUSE

JESUS CLARK FLORESS EMILLO CARBALLIDO; LIRING 3= MANUEL CALVILLO:

CH. THOMASS JUNE

COBB> LIHUFF-1; (LITAMIL-Z; LITAMIL - 9;

LIRING 33 VICTOR RICO GALAN (GALEN): NOE PALOMARES: JOAOUIN

CISNEROS.

ABOVE LIST OBTAINED BY HSCA

INVESTICATORS FREA INTERHIENTEG EX-STAFFERS AMD EICE REYIENS.

LIST:

SUMMARY HOS TRACES FOLLOWS ON ABOVE

OKLAHOMA.

..A. LICOOKY-1 HICEN A1 (201-02788411 DPOB: 24 AUG 1927:

KHTLE EMPLOVED HAVANA FROM 1959-60 AS PUBLIC RELATIONS

OFFICER IN CUSAN GOVERN ENT. MET

WHILE SHE VISITING NYC.

BY AGENCY REP IN SPRING 1941

CUBAN GOVERITENT.

RECRUITED 3 JUN 1960 AS FI SOURCE OF

LEFT CUBA PCS IN FALL 1960 ANC IN MAY 176i1

SHE TRAVELED FEZXICO WAERE SHE MET BY STATION OFFICER IN

SHE

SERVED AS F SUURCE ON MEXICAN/CENTRAL AMERICAN LEFTIST.

•OR MEXICO STATION UAITIL HER PCS DEPARTURE FOR NYE IN JIL 1961

LAS! KrBER ADDRESS WAS NYI

8.

31

DEDA GARRO DE GUERRERO GALVAN - FROM DESX CARO DATEO

JULY 1969 QE DEVA GARRO,

OF

MEXICAN CITIZEN APPEARS ON A LIST

MEXICAN LEFTIST/COMTIUNIST MEMBERS WHO WERE CONSIDEREC "MUST

DANGEROUS."

NO RECORD ANY STATION CONTACT.

TRACES

C. • LYAN DURAN IARA LYDIA DURAND - NO IDENTIFIABLE:

D.

E.

CUNICE OOIO - NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES.

TICHBORM - PSEUDUWYM IA ILEN B.

SECRET

19820

---

## Page 2

7r. 0762295

PAGE 002

TOT: 2620562 MAY TH

CIRECTOR 224121

F

LICHANT-I (IDEN CI 1201-0331597) - OPOBBQ JAN 1MD.

SAN LUIS POTOSI, MEXICO.

STATION CONTACT WITH L-L WAS HANDLES F:

LIHUFF-1.

INITIAL CONTACT WAS IN JAY 1761

L'i WAS CA ASSE!

WHO INVOLVED IN DOING RESEARCH PAPERS ON COMMUNIST INFILTRATICN

IN STUDENT CIRCLES AND ACQUIRING INFORMATION ON VARIOUS LEFTIS!

MOVEMENTS IN MEXICO. : NO FORMAL TERMINAIION CATE AVAILABLE.

LAST

INFORMATION RECEIVED WAS NOV 1966.

LAST KNOWN ADORESS WAS

AMSTERDAM NO. 291. APT. 3. MEXICO CITY (COI AUG 19611

GEN. JOSE

JESUS CLARK FLORES CP08: 28 NOV 1705,

DURANCO, MEXICO.

AS: OF 1862

CLARK WAS PRESIDENT OF THE MEXICAN

CONFEDERATION OF SPORTS.

NO RECORD OF AGENCY CONTACT: NU

AUCRESS

AVAILABLE.

EMILLO CARBALLICO - POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH EMILIO

CARBALLICO FENTANES. BORN ON 22 MAY 1925 IN VERACRUZ, WHO IS :

NO RECORD OF AGENCY CONTALT:

LAST KNOWl

5-25-35-04

1001 19701.

LIRING-3 (IDEN D1 1201-07993011 - DPOB: 3 NOW i

ABAL EL BY SHITEN OPTISERY PRACTES NO RESEE BESTESSMAN

INTERESTEO IN PROCURING PAINTINGS.

SOCIAL CONTACTS FOLLOWEG.

IN 1966 ME WAS USED UWITTINGLY AS PENETRATION OF USE ANC OF

TRICOUTIRENTAL (LAAPSO! GRGANIZATION IN HAVANA AND AS SOURCE ON

ACTIVITIES OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUPS IN

CENTRAL AMERICA.

1.3

OBTAINED HIS INFORMATION ERUM SOCIAL CONTACTS WITH CUBANS IN

MEXICO CITY-ARD HAVANA AND THROUGH MIS WIFE WHO WAS EMPLOYEC AT

CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO UNTIL NOV 1966.

HE WAS ALSO UStO Un

UNWITTING BASIS TO PASS CONTROLLED INFORMATION: 10 CUBANS IN

MEXICO AND HAVANA. HE MADE THREE TRIPS TO HAYANA IN CONNECTION

WIIM RELATIONSHIP WITH HIS CASE OFFICER..

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS WAS

EDIFICIO CONDESA A-GA PACHOCA-K AVENICA VERACRUZE MEXICO 11:

C.F

PERTINENT DATA.

CH. THOMAS = UNABLE TO IDENTIFY BECAUSE OF LACK

MEXICO, US. CITIZEN MADEN ET 201-0030999) - DPUB: 300 SEF 1915

NATURALIZED IN 1916. FORMER

STATION ASSET IMO TERMINATEO IN APRIL 1949 WHEN HE MOVED TO MEXICO

ORIGINALLY TARGETTED AGAINST STUDENT COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES.

VARIOUSLY AS CUT-OUT AS OUTSIDE AGENT INVOLVED IN STUDENT -

RELATED ACTIVITIEST AS INFORMANT ON ACTIVITIES OF EXTREME RIGHT.

WING CATHOLIC GROUPS AND FINALLY, IN JUN 1969, WAS INVOLVED IN

RELATES SURROLNDING RECRUTTRENT ATTEMPT/PERSONAL MARRASSIE

SOVIET OFFI

LAST

WITH ACENCY OF TAER WAISE

CONTACT NOTED WAS 1973 WHEN HE LUNCHED

IN HUS AREA ON BUSINESS. LAST KNOWN

ADDRESS WAS TOLUCA HIGHWAY KLM 9 172 "EL MAGUERITO" • CHAJIMALPA.

MEXICO.

О.Г. (МА 19631 .

SECRET

---

## Page 3

STAFF

Fit ia!!

TOT: 2620562 MAY?

DIRECTOR 22992

SLICE RULE ADEN ENO DOU SPUR:

CA:9

RECRUITEU CURING EARLY 1960'S AS PENETRATIOA

IN FEXICO, WHERE SHE SERVED AS LUCALLY HIREC

SECRET ATE

RETIRE HER EMPLOY IN MAR 1YARE LAST STATION CORTANT

IN AIR LOLA.

KNOLN APORESS LAS

G.F. 1D01 Ju

1962÷

CLIIAMIL-91 ICH 61 1201 0329609;

- 0P06: 19

INTECO.

SHAIMS RATURALIZED CUBAN CITIZEN.

SERVED AS

¿CUBAN ENRASSY,

TEXICO CITY LEARLY 1962 - MAR

19651. INTPODIKEE

TO STATION OSFICER IN JUL 1962 FOR PURPOSES OF CEBRIEFING AND

FOR USE AS PENETRATION OF

HE WAS WITTING OF AGENCI

INVOLVEMENT.

IN MAR 1965 HE WAS RECALLED TO CUBA WHERE HE

REMAINEO UNTIL LATE 1966 AS EMPLOYEE OF

CUUCIL.

IN NOV 1966 HE HAS DEBRIEFED IN MEXICO CITY AND IN

DEL 196& HE DECICED NOT TO RETURN TOL

HE WAS TERMINATEC ON

9 DEC 1906 WITM PROVISO THAT ME COULC BE RECONTACTED FERIODICALL:

WHEN SPECIFIC NEED FOR INFURMATION

IN MAR 1968 HE INCICATEL -

DID NOT WET BECCE INVOLVED IN OPERATIONSI NO FURTHER CONTACT

AGENCY REPERUE RICO GRESS

I TEEN CABI

(GALEN) 201-03364741 - DP08

6 FEB 19280

EL FERROL

SPAIN: NATURALIZED MEXICAN CITIZEN.

JOURIALIST DY PROFESSION AND HEADED PRESS/ PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE OF

MLN 1 0F

WHICH HE WAS

FOUNDING MEMBER) IN 1962.

HE HAS WRITTEN FOR

BOTH "SIEGFRE" AND "POLITILA.

ARRESTED IN AUG 196& WITN SOME 40

OTHER MEMBERS OF POPULAR REVALUTIONARY MOVEMENT

ANC CHARGEC WITH

INCITING REGELLIO!, CONSPIRACY AND FOR ACCUMULATING ARMS.

IN LECU DERRI FRISON

JAN 1967 MET BY STATION OFFICER, W10

POSED AS AM

ITALIAN WRITER

FOR "CORRISPONDENZA SUCIALISTA" AND AS

ACQUAINTANCE OF AS ITALIAN

PRO CUTUNIST JOURNALIST WHO FRIENC OF

RICO.

-RELEASEO FRUTI PRISON ON 2 APR 1972.

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS WAS

STINA LANAINZAR 19-B, COLONIA DEL VALLE: MEXICO: D.F.; TEL NO.

45-54-94

1001

PALOMARES - POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH NOE PALUNARES

NAVARRO, -NIO WAS BOICI-IN SONORA STATEO MALCU,

ON 10 NOV 1913.

NO RECORD OF

AGENCY CONTACT.

ADDRESS AS OF 1977. LIC. NOt

5A,0-09ES, RAVATO RESIDED AT LA PRESA 4,

MEXICO, D.F.$ TEL NO.

JOANUIM CISTEROS - WE HAVE RECORD OF ONE LIC.

CISNEROSS NO CROS AVAILAOLE.

AS DE MAR 1968 HE WAS PRIVATE MAQUIN

SECRETARY TO THE PRESIDENT OF MEXICO. NO RECORO OF AGENCY CONTACT;

NO ADDRESS AVAILABLE.

ON 25 MAY, HSCA INVESTIGATORS WERE TOLD THAT UNDER NO

SUASIS SOLD COR TREES TEACH ATTE

AS DIS ADI PROTESOK

_LICOOKY-1, LIHUFF-1, CITAMIL-7• LITAMIL- 9°

SECRET.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

STAF!

1i 1762295

PAGE 004

TOT: 2620562 MAY ?4

CIRECTOR 229921

THE ASCA IRVESTIGATURS DID REQUEST ANO OBTAINEC

FERMISSION TO INTERVIEW FORMER STAFFERS AND STATION

IS REQUESTES

TO FRUVIDE ANY ASSISTANCE IT CAN TO CONTACT FOLLUMINO

EX. STAFFERS:

A.

MR. CHARLES FLICK - SEE REF E.

B.

RUBERT ZAMBERNAROL, FORMER DIS OF ICER WHO RESTOR.D

IN 1465, LISTINE AREMO, MEXICO CITY.

AS FORWARCING

#CORESS.

HUUKESS:

STREET, COL. DEL VALUE, MEXICO CITY COOL MOSTELAS

HULA MSCA ALSO REQUESTED PERMISSION INTERYTEW

ALVAREZ CURANT I SEE REF DO WHO FORMERLY OPERATEC A PHOTOGRAPH!

SURVEILLANCE SITE.

THIS WAS NOT APPROVEC.

POUCHING BY IM 126282. POUCH NU. 18656, TRANSCRIITS OF

CUBAN TELTAFS IN SPANISH ANC ENGLISH PLUS ONE

STRIP (E

PHOTOS

FUR USE LE MA.

GARY CURSWELL, MSCA.

TRANSCRIFTS AND FHOTUGRAFHS

ARE FUN ASCA INVESTIGATORS USE IN EMBASSY ONLY AND ARE NOT RET NOT

1U BE TATEN OUTSIDE EMBASSY PREMISES.

SCA INVESTIGATORS FLAN

SACE PHOTOSC PHENA MEREE ES STAFFERS LISTEC IN PARA & ARUVE. "IN

SINCE ASLA INVESTIGATORS WILL BE ACCOMMUCATEC IN EMBASS:.

WUIAU PREFER THEY RUT ENTER STATIN PREMISES, BUT CEFER TO STATION RE

PRACTICALITY THE SITUATION:

FUR STAILUN'S BACKGROUNC INFO, FOLLOWING IS SLAMMARY LiF

PHUTU CUVERAGE

CUBAN AND SOVIET EMBASSIES FLUS TELTAF INFO.

CUBAN EMBASSY:

PROJECT LIUNION WAS ACTIVE FROM 1342

UNTIL

SEPTEMBER 197Z AND PROVIDEO PHOTO COVERAGE OF THE CUBAN

INSTALLATION.

• THE SITE WAS LOCATED APPROXIMATELY 80 YAROS FROM

INE ENTRANCE TO THE EMBASSY.

FROM 1962 UNTIL CECEMBER 1963 THE

EQUIPPIENT USED WAS A SPOTTING SCOPE ANO A CAMERA. IN DECEMAER ITE: I

PILSE CAMERA WAS INSTALLEC

BECAUSE OF LACK OF COVERAGE OF THE

CONSULATE DOOR.

THE PULSE CAMERA WAS REMOVED IN OCTURER 176

SOVIET EMBASSY:

PROJECT LIEMPTY CONCERNEC FAIMARILY

V1TN PHOTOGRAPHIC COVERAGE OF THE SOVIET INSTALLATILN

ACTIVE FROM

PROCALLY MOST THROUGH 3O JUNE 19

AT THE TIME OF ITS

TERMINATION IT SUPPORTED TWO OF THE THREE ORIGINAL BASEHOUSES

MICH WERE:

(1) LICALLA CACTIVIATEO IN 19

•TO PHOVIDE PROTE

COVERAGE OF REAR I GARDEN, PARKING LOT AREAT OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY

TERMINATEU

JAE 19

SUVERAGE

1ZI LILYRIC LACTIVIATEC IN IS TO PROVIDE PHOTO

IHE

JI INE

SOVIET EMBASSY'S FRONT ENTRANCE. TERMINATEO

SECRET

---

## Page 5

* 0162275

PAUL 0ÙS

10T: 2620562 MAY T3

131 LIMITEO I ACTIVIATED IN 19 TO PROVICE FHOTO

SOVIET EMBASSY'S FRONT ENTRANCE. TERMINATEC

CIRECTOR 228921

PAGE TONS THE ONE TRE WEREN®

SURE 98. LOLD BE PUBLISHEC IN THE

COMMISSION'S REPORT.

BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL SECURITY

REPERCUSSIONS WHICH COULD STEM FROM PUBLIC RELEASE OF THE

PHOTOGRAPH,

THE OPERATIONS UF ALL THREE BASEHOUSES ABOVE WERE

SUSPENDED IN SEP 1964.

WHEN THE STATION DETERMINED THAT SAID

PHOTOGRAPH WAS SOURCED TO LIMITED, THE STATION REACTIVATED THE

LILYRIC AND LICALLA BASEHOUSES ON A PHASEN BASIS IN OCTOBER 1964.

LIMITED WAS FOVED TEMPORARILY TO AN APARTMEAT I NOT FURTHER

IDENTIFIEDD ON THE IMEDIATE VICINITY OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY AND

RESUMED ITS ACTIVITIES IN EARLY JANUARY 1965.

LATER IN 1965

THE ORIGINAL BUILDING THAT HOUSED LIMITED WAS RAZEC AND A NEW

STRUCTURE WAS BUILT ON THE SAME SITE.

LILYRIC OPERATION WAS MOVED

INTO THE NEW BUILDING AND THE LIMITED OPERATION WAS MOVED INTO

THE BUTLOTEL TAPESH AUBLE, ELEVOY SUPPORTED THE

STATION'S

JOIND TELTAP RCTIVITY,

AND HAD THE CAPACITY TO MONITOR THIRTY

TELEPHONE LINES.

THROUGHOUT THE PERIOO FROM JULY 1963 UNTIL

APRIL 1964. THERE WAS LIENVOY COVERAGE ON FIVE SOVIET EMBASSY

THESE LINES WERE:

15-60-55 (CHANCERY ): 15-61-55

15-69-ERY MILITARY ATTACHES, 16-62-07 ICOMMERCIAL OFFICES, AND

15-12-64 (FILM REPRESENTATIVE.

IN JULY 1963 LIENVOY COVERAGE WAS MAINTAINEC ON FIV

THESE LINFS: NOT FURTHER

25-09-14 AND 1413-26.

THE STATION REPORTED IN EARLY OCTOBER 1963

THAT LIENVOY COVERAGE HAD BEEN SUSPENDED ON 23 SEPTEMBER 1963. ON.

WU CUBAN EMBASSY LINES

1492-14 AND 25-07-95.

COVERAGE ON

14-92-14-145 SUSPENDED BECAUSE IT WAS OUT OF ORDER, AND THE CUBAN.

HAD NOT SUCCEEDED IN GETTING THE TELEPHONE COMPANY TO REPAIR IT.

25-07-95 HAS SUSPENDED BECAUSE IT WAS LOCATED IN AN APARTMENT

WHICH HAD BEEN VACATEO BY A CUBAN OFFICIAL AND THE CUBANS HAD NOT

YE SUCCEEDED - IN HAVING IT TRANSFERRED TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY.

IT

SISTENSICE! OF COVERAGE OF THESE THO LINES THAT

LIENVOY HAS ONLY PROVIDING COVERAGE ON THREE CUBAN EMBASSY LINES

AT THE TIME OF OSWALD'S VISIT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY.

SOMETIME

PRIOR TO APRIL 1964 LIENVOY COVERAGE WAS REACTIVATED ON THESE

TWO LINES I PRESUMABLY ONCE 14-92-14 HAD BEEN REPAIRED ANI

25-07-95 HAD BEEN TRANSFERRED TO THE EMBASSY, BUT THE EXACT CAT

OF THE RESUFIPTION OF COVERAGE DOES NOT APPEAR IN THE RECORD.

RE FARA 4 OF REF B, WE COULD FIND NO REÇORD OF

A

SECRET

00718

---

## Page 6

STAFF

78 0762295

PAGE 006

TOT: 262056Z MAY 7F,

DIRECTUA 227981

OPERATION DIRECTED AGAINST EITHER THE SINIET

OR

CUBAN EMBASSY

DURING THE TIME FRAME.

LIFEAT DID. HOWEVER,

PROVIDE COVERAGE

& RESIDENCES OF SELECTEC CUBAN AND SOVIET

OFFICIALS.

AMSTRUT WAS THE OPERATION AND NET OF ASSETS INVOLVEC IN

THE DEFECTION AND RECRUITMENT OF

IDEN H AND SUBSEQUENTLY. THE

INITIATION OF HER ANTI-CASTRO RADIO BROADCASTS:

1201-02872271 WAS EMPLOYEC BE THE

FBI FROM 1940 - 1960.

HE SERVED LAST IN MEXICO AS ASSISTANT LEGAL

ATTACHE 11951-601 AND DEPUTY TO LEGAL ATTACHE 11957-60%.

1 NOV 1960 HE BEGAN HIS SERVICE WITH THE AGENCY AS A CAREER

AGENT, HAVING BEEN RECOMTENDED BY FORMER CHIEF OF STATION.

MR. WINFIELD SCOTT.

HE WAS INCLUDED UNDER PROJECT LITEMPO TO

TRAIN AND DIRECT A PHYSICAL SURVFLLLANCE TEAM AND FROVIDE

RETIRED EFFECTIVE

30 DEC I9TO.

10.

HSCA INVESTIGATORS ADVISED IHEY PLAN TO CONTACI PRIVATE

MEXICAN CITIZENS WHO ARE NOT RPT NOT FORMER STATION ASSETS BUT WHO

ARE PURPORTED TO HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE ABOUT LEE HARVEY OSWALS 'S

VISIT TO MEXICO CITY.

PRESUME THESE MIGHT BE THOSE NOW-STATIUN

ASSETS LISTED IN PARAGRAPH 2 ABOVE.

NO FILE.

IMPOET. >

SEC:

PLEASE INSERT NUMBER OF THIS CARLE UN ATTACHED ICEN

CRILE AS ARSE I LEHMAN X1222) COURO SA/CO/O

C/PCS (PAGE), OLE (BRECKINRIDGED: E/LA/STB I STURBITTSI; AUTH:

AC/LA/MOSS (LEHMAND; REL: C/LA (WARREN: CL RY 02910?

ENC OF- MESSAGE

SE

CRET

---

