# 104-10086-10345

## Page 1

1104-10086-10345

Inside Washington

2:00i 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From Warr

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

cials who actively oppose

And PAUL SCOTT

•Soviet

on has yet

to

be

used

policies.

against

any

high

West-

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Titled

*Soviet Strategic

Executive

ern official, hundreds

of

-The Central Intelli

Action,"

KGB

agents

covertly

suppressed.

CIA

the

op-.

gence

Agency

withheld

docu-

vital

intelligence

ment. went into the shock-

erating outside of Russia

have

infor-

been

supplied

with

mation from the. Warren

ing details of how agents

this

pocket-size,

gun,

Commission during its in- police,

of KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting

vestigation-of

are trained to do

only

orders

the

from

Moscow to

assas

sination of President

away

use it.

with Western lead-

The

Murder

Kennedy.

Weapons

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGHTS

of

the

and to

Despite

th-e

the U:S.,

make

commis

their deaths

suppressed intelligence

appear due

sion's written request for:

estimate, which is locked

to natural causes.

all documents that might-

a security area within

shed

light

on

the

One of the KGB's new.

the

tightly-guarded

assas

ly

devised

sination,

CIA,

CIA

assassination

are

as

follows:

authorities

failed to turn

wapons is "a pnumati-

has

been

over a na-

cally:

reported

tional

operated

"It

intelligence

poison ice

thạt the KGB

estio

mate

'atomizer,' : which

endeavors

leaves

warning

that it is

no. wound or.

Kremlin policy to remove

other.

to remove-the: threat to

evi

from

dence of the cause of.

Soviet interests posed by

public office by as

sassination Western offi-

death."

certain: members of West-

While this deadly weap

ern governments;.som e.

times arranging

for the

dismissal of such persons

liquid

from public office, at oth-

er

times

even

having

form.

The

them 'eliminated'

• Within sec

pnysi-

cally.

autopsy.wol

"Such

activities

are

its

use.

known

poisons hav

to be undertaken

ed which. d

against

other types of

fect

until

persons in the West, not- after being

ably

defectors from

the

U.S.S.R.

thus allowin

and from

countries

other: to be far fr

of

the

Soviet :

bloc.

when his vi

"One recently reported

"A knoy

source

has

assassination technique is

to electrocute an individ-

pneumaticall

ual

poison

by

luring

him

which

ice

leave

use a telephone, connect-

ed to a high-voltage wire,

or other evi

during

-cause of dea

a thunderstorm.

"Another involves

Congressic

use

of

pistol

the

gators,

who.

which

projects a

that the na

poison gas in committee

Suppresed e

Documents

Bathes ClA om assassination

shown- bynadministration:

OTPaR y Us. inteli-

officials te Speaker John

gence experts, very du.

McCormack (Mass.),

bious of

next

istence

Prussia's: co-ex-

in line to succeed Presi

Life,

Stress that

dent Johnson.

the : Warren: Commis

sion's: Banngs

warned Speaker:

med SEt officials m

this CIA:

hare been different

might

mack,

if

estimate

otber-

Commun

dedicated wanti

hắt herision

docaments

the list ot

pressed by the

Western

offi

mals geared by the Krem

partment bad

able for stud

CIA

authority

They

the sy ye beat meat

Paizat the

has shown the No. 2 man

in government

the

report

CIA

listing

these

suppressed evidence liak-

Ing

cret Soviet assassination

Its

Oswald with one of

methods.

exaployes,

instead,

cording to security files,

aC.

"presented

Learned

Mc C ormack

Soviet

only

about the report

strong:

pro-

views

.on

gressional

recently from con

question

every

that

in

came

the

U.S.S.R.

Departments

are

who

tee*

country commit.

while

de

member

was

This State Department

officials

name also

peared

000K

in

the

ap

address

viet

of a suspected So

2gent

who

in the

U.S.

arrived

in

1943, ac.

cording

files.

to - goverument

Congressional investi-

gators

also

have been

shocked so discover that

been suppressed.

The investigators also

why the

are try cit in tes

determine

assassination

pre-

report

10

the State Department on

Oswald's trip

to Mexico

City gave details .only of

the defector's visit to the

the

Russian embassy and not

Cuban embassy.

The

CIA did not report the

latter

visit

Kennady's

until

after

assassination

i0 DallaS

fahe

p- 8593

The caller foon the

Litan

until I74 sin

СКТ? Страни

vorces.

0000243

630F71

---

## Page 2

14-00000

00C0243

Inside Washington

2100164

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

cials who actively oppose

on has yet

to

be

used

dismissal of such persons

or

compressed

for security

reasons

that

CIA

Director

Westo

from public office, at oth;

form.

The

gas

is

fatal

'port

And PAUL SCOTT

-Soviet

Tilled Soviet Strategic

against

any

high

ein

official, hundreds of

er

times

even having

within seconds

and

ati

John

McCone

made

no

Action,"

KGB agents

covertly

op-

them eliminated' physi-

autopsy would not reveal

mention of this explosive

secret

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

his

-The Central Intelli

suppressed

CIA

docu-

erating gutside of Russia

cally.

it's

use.

Non-trace able

document

in

• poisons have been report-

testimony

before

the

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock-

Haver been

supplied with

"Such

activities

are

to be undertaken?

ed which do not take el

Warren Commission.

vital

intelligence

infor-

ing details of how agents

this DO.

Ek e t-size,

• gun,

known

other types. of

fect

until several

hours

While McCone furnish-

mation from

the

Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

a wasting only

orders

against

trained to do

from. Moscow. to

use it.

persons in the West, not.

after being administered,

ed the commission with

Commission during its in-

police, are

Weapons

ably

defectors from the

with

thus allowing an assassin

Western lead-

The Murder

vestigation

the CIA's secret

of

the

assas-

away

surveil-

sination

of

President

ers, including officials in

HIGULIONTS

of

"the

U.S.S.R.

and

from

other

to be far from the scene:

Lee

suppressed in t elligence

countries of

the

Soviet

when his victim dies.

lance reports

on

Oswald's

eight

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

and to

make

estimate which is locked

bloc.

"A knowledge able"

Harvey

Despite

the commis-

their deaths appear due

described. a

days in Mexico

City

be

sion's written request for

to

natural causes.

in a stcurity area within

"One recently reported

source

has

CIA,

fore the assassination. in

One of the KGB's new-:

the tightlyguarded

assassination technique is

pneumatically

opera to d!

poison ice

intomizerl

cluding

details

all documents that miglit

on the assas-

ly

devised

assassination

as Tollows:

to

electrocute an individ-

wald's

wound

contact

shed light

to

with

the

which

leaves no

sination,

CIA

authoritics

wapong " is

"a: prumati-

1177 1

Den reported

wal

by

luring

him

failed to turn

over a na-

mily operated polson icew that the Ios endeavors

use a telephone,

connect-

removerthie. threat to

ed to a high-voltage wire,

tional

Cause of allence of the

head KGB

agent in the

Soviet

embassy

there,

intelligence

esti-

'atonizer,' which leaves

investi

the

CIA

chief

gave

no

mate

warning

that it

is i no

wound or: other. evly Soviet interests posed by

during a thunderstorm,

Congressional

asked

hint of the Kremlin's as

certain membets of West-

«Another

involves

the

sassination policy.

Kremlin policy to remove

dence

death.

"ol the cause

gators.

who

have

of.

that

the name

from public

office br as-

which

ern governments:

some.

use

of

pistol

committee be

of

their

While this deadly weap

times arrenging.

fori the:

projects

a poison gas in

withhold

(CONTINUED ON

8-23)

sassination

Western offi-

Olier Suppresse

Documents

U.s.

intelli.

gence experts, very du-

bious of" Russia's co-er.

istence

the

line. stress

that

Warren Commis®

sion's

findings

have

this

been

might

different:

il?

CIA estimate and

other

documents

SUT-

pressed by the State De-

partment had been avnil.

shown

assassinatlor

by arministration

officials sto

Spcaker John

McCormhek yass.),

next

in line to sucaeed Presi-

dent Johlison

Whil

officials:.

warned

Mcdor.

mack,

ia

ententeil

Communist:

anti

that he is on

the list of Western

ofti.

cials feared by the Krem

lin,

no

CIA

authority

has shown the No. 2 man

in

government the

•CUA

They

but that

Tenant

listing these se.

the State Department#

cret

"Soviet assassination

suppressed evidonce dinkag

ing Oswald with ono of

Smnethods.

W instead. Mc Coomin

It&

employes, who act

Mcarned about the report

cording to

security files.

#presented

stront.

only

DrO-

recently,

from con.

gressional

probers

who

filin

P- 8593

Who titud

to There

---

