# 104-10127-10022

## Page 1

104-10127-10022

OLC # 78-2538

SECRET

SPEED LETTER

REPLY REQUESTED

DATE

28 July 1978

LETTER NO.

YES

NO

TO:

Room 6853137eckinridge, OLC, HQS

sturbit

ATTN:

HQS, Room 3C34

REF: MEXICO CITY 46000 (IN 1047459)

As you will note from Ref, the Mexico City Station was unable

to

locate LIONION-1 in Mexico and

helieves he may be in Spain.

We are

preparing a priority cable for

the

which will give them

the background and

ask their assistance in locating him

We are not

asking them to contact him at this time.

The Mexico Station also drew a blank on the whereabouts of Viola

June COBB, AKA June COBB Sharp, and Henry P. Lopez. It will be noted

shers to be nothing to indicate either are now in Mexico.

Station carried out pretty thorough investigation, and there

On the assumption that Sharp and Lopez may be in the United States,

suggest that the HSCA be advised of the results of our unsuccessful

efforts to locate them in Mexico, We believe that

any efforts to

sharp,

and Lopez, both of whom are u.s.

persons', should be initiated by the

HSCA rather than the Agency.

we have on their last known whereabouts

in order to assist the MSCA in their etherts, we have included what

a) Viola June COBB Sharp was known to have been in New. York City in

1968 г

We have no address there. As of about 1960, her father

DATE

REPLY :

19832

FORM

5-67

1831

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

RESPONDER'S FILE

SECRET

• F2 IMPDET

---

## Page 2

oklahoma: COBs, lived at 710 North Sunset, Ponca City,

The last known address included in our files for

lenry P. Lopez was 5900 Arlington Avenue, Riverdale, New

York.

His phone number at the time (Nov

19661 waC 1212

884-8728.

William C. Sturbitts

2

S E

CR E T

---

