# 104-10059-10182

## Page 1

104-10059-10182

SCONLO

2 WAR 1965

Carocket

" Jarvi To, Porolble Concoceton to Invorsestten

Jut Chlo sober 103535 Objecte Lee Larvey

As you tre flun atalove corressendence regarding

Karen,

Peato ductes

So Gogot of 1958 aod dorind the perfod

2. Jina to s Souteular 20S0. Alcagea OSWALD Boparentay

Minon Covere cho eat of Augere 1059.

To trenrolopa on 3 on aNcy 1962, Io. Coposhagen,

Dearers,

ofthion soployee c.. Cils. Areney who was lucin

3C.I0;

ursuetkesve of herleen Incolligenco".

SavioR ciciaco co lero bero amelbins of co eddity da

Minal alics to sso lao calf Amrican realedas Chere at

ele since

As uses, in claised to bore attracted te

sironlt a nrour of gons toulecs sho dlaplayed on

unusurd cartontty ason tha peanuard of livise is tte

Undred Sestio

Sou Veneera Citore Aid Viceo Lotereste

cre, savine a crod tire and

Matuls to

J-9s

nels ou cha Foleo el Acarlca. Arong

thuge your Sorteca, accordlan to carror, wan a yours

geneselo

Jc 16 lacercasing that OSHAID aloe repercedly

C432A

Linda! 195 0003.

Prais in Noa

00L284

---

## Page 2

14-00000

sonsiderod binade co ba en eddiey ao che caly tertem

rectilia; to Kirnl, and actracted noro Cr leno Cha came

Cypo yoine Soviett es dia cAnToRa Te Chould bo noted

thet Osu215 Listel nong kie cloco Erlende La Mank

a yount Soutnt caped Pevel COLOTACIEVO heca Lathar

ostensiblas o Sortas aruy general.

BOLS MANTOT, Ind OSWALD had servod as callated sen cad

secmicitos da che laizod States Hartne Corpe

do

deco-ding to a regort Erom your Detrole offfee, dated

14 bruct 1904, NaToR 1s crploged by the Unlvorally

of sichido, Ana Arbor, Nichagan, se a locturer In

Slavle Incurpes end literncure in the miverolsy'e

Colleno of Literatiro, Selenco and Arte. According

to preso reporta, aria OStALD le currently enrolled

la a special Enrlins luguces couras se che Untveralty

of Nichleen, Ann Artos, Michigan.

TOR THE DEF VIS DEFECTOR POR PLANSI

Signed: John C. Mert

JAMES ANGLETON

CSCI - 316/00925-65

Dietribucion:

Orig & 1 - Addressec

C/CI

C/CI/SIC

- C/CI/R&A

1

C/SR/CI

C/SR/CI/R (hold cy & comeback cy)

:SR/O/US/d1

201-259,248

201-279,710

SR/CL/Research:

BBC 126 February 1965

---

