# 104-10163-10065

## Page 1

104-10163-10065

SECRET

Former Contacte barana Station

able personal courage, good security and common sense. In my sind be

10 cho ideal "joe of Latin Anerican agent.

aba 'agoney 18 la lose sight or contact with dollo. I save sut lew men

more dedicatod and nore loyal.

close

en to that ve ro

AMFAD-3.

Secruited ty P:PAH-? and 83

Verrid to then as she deld isi iulna."

Ramon me in the antoning business in Havana and ernie 191 80

leate.. He lont hia More, care,

furaishiars, ete.

plannine to send nio so Nicaragua, anil rave recentres ter to the

Nicaragua donk

He has all the quailcing ascribed to

Adolfo sAi FELATo (see above) erent that he hes sava? toes an isoriea

citizer. He meaks excellen: arglish. He la codicated, courageous and

most naxtous to calrials contact with the igoney. it stil be our jose

11 thie la not done.

6.

ENTRATE LURTIRE. AMCLATTER!.

wife:

Clare.

Barker 10 a

Ex-Captain In the U.S.l.f.

See P: 291 201 for R2l1

bio data.

I rocrultod sarker in 1957, and he verted leichhily until

vo had to eviltrato bir somerine la 1960.

No recruit a meber of

malumble agento for the Station (Including AMCLATTi»", Vich sen) and

bad an maing encyclopedie knowlede of Cuban persons, eventa sad co

lacto 1a all valko n$ 1150.

Be

waa g

boxing rosager and inew trina:oly

all Cuban pereoralities engaged

in tha

portin lacuairy. tie had a poopy-

doe lugalty lo his case officers

and

10

are Agency.

Yes bigres% veakness

mo hia laci of discretion.

He

Duch

# Joys' Anarias lastually di

no? technically) that he mould tigat

the irco of a sl 19 sayone coot

«persions on the United States or

cadera.

Ild the arnolphere o

Cantro's Cuba 1 night say chat that

quito siran.

+ aN

"a tha

procese of helping hin recover big

Amordras cleisesehly.

when the

Station reopens I would certainly

ommond that me cootlas

to saintala

contact with Farker.

If nothing sins he vould muce a vorcertid log-mar

for the Chief of Station.

His wife

18

Af

Iinqual and as bnll|perently "imer::=r" as ha 1a. Late:,

by lanpuage, could saas either as ai Amrican or a 'unas - a gestro

asset 11 be could be caught to subnergo blo apericanimo.

05

1• Lanelo vera Accha. I rot tanolo chroner dares 2u01so rio

Dow & Fisonr in Cuba a8 a result of the 1741 o. Act Mvasion

Karolo in vorklan for us sor 10 Fland, and I prom ve tore ful 11=

date on hin.

lanclo'a farily owned,

nong wit. Fapuris. Mind, 108 143

•tool plant

in Havana which was nationalized by the seatre tegies lola.

Antillan de Acero,

SnA.). Manolo ian a brother, Incini tha would

also be worth cultivating. Through bla business ant cardly co:rectione

Manole kney a great vali wipin vi onerazzonal 105011%

Friends was David SALVADOR, although Manolo 91d D0° viare LiVADOR'O

political thinking (extrose loit and anci-d aricoi.

FAGGIE 10.

objeorivo a reporter as I here over ensountored anon, la!+

RETURN TO CIA

alground Use Onli

Do Not Reproduou

SECRET

---

