# 104-10216-10353

## Page 1

104-10216-10353)

129h25.3015

3 March 1965

MEHORANDU POZ THE RECORD

SUBJBCT: AWHIP-l leeting, New York Clty, 19 February 1965

levied by Nestor Sanchez, WH/SA/SO, on events which too.

place during AlRIP-l's most recent sojourn in Europe (January-

February 1965) in company with AHLASH-1.

Meeting was alBo

used to dotarmine AWHIP-l'e willingness to participate in the

"discord program" using UNSNAFU-19 as the unwitting reciplent

of certain runors, the details, of which are covered in

subaequent pragraphs.

It night be noted for the record that this meetint tas

ncheduled for the morning of 18 February, but due to

AMTHIP-I sissiny the schedulod flight fron Miami, the meeting

was pos$poned until the above time.

Details of the looting

The folloing Information on the various topics as

Indicated concern basically those requirements which have

been intended for,

and levied on, AMLASH-1.

However, due to

the Inct that AWHIP-l was together in Europe with AMLASA-l,

AMIHIP l was debriefed on the requirements on the outside

chance that he night have sone complimentary Information on them.

Orlando Blanco, Cuban Diplonat in Bern, Switzerland.

ASHIP-! vas unable to give any additional infornation on

Blanco as he had not not the man in Europe and does not remember

having not him in Havana.

(ATHIp-l stated that AMLASH-l

clataed that ho (AMHIP-l) had in fact net Blanco & numbar

of yeurs ago in Havana, but ANTHIP says he truly does not

remember the mta.)

He stated that any additional information

on Blanco would have to come from either AMLASH-) OF AMLASH-3.

In appronching Blanco for cooperation, ALWHIP strongly

suggested that it would be beat to use AMLASH? for the

Inttial contret. AMHIP stated that BLANCO knew AJLASH-3 vell

and that he sas a trusted representative (and therefore anti

Castro) of AMLASE-]. AMHIP-1 was told ve vere 100 cing inio

Blanco and also Into QUORS=}, Attache Cuban Embasy, Madrid.

---

## Page 2

b.

In discussing CUHOPS desire to cooperate, AMHIT

stated that QunOps would do what he could to help but that

exchange set tess he wanted to get his wife, two children

and his notber-in-iar to the United States along with hieself.

AWHIP-l stated that QUHOPS' plan in brief was to accept

the guard duty on Sunday thus nasing probably only himself

and the wife of code clor: present in the embassy. Te

thanied AWHIP for his Information and suggestions and

stated that they would be conveyed to the appropriate partles

concerned.

stated that he aad no Intormation on Gonzales,

Gustavo GONZALES. (AMLASH-l's "eousin") AJWHIP-l

In whom

Nestor Sanchez has an

with regard to his

(Sanchez') pending PCS to

d.

"Venezuelan" Returning from Moscow.

Regarding the

Venezuelan who has reportedly to have Just come from Moscow

and returning to Cuba, AMTHIP-1 stated

that he had no

Information to contributo about the man.

le did say, however,

that one time during his recent trip to the Cuban Embassy

Paris talking with UNSNAFU-19, the Ambassador had intorrupted

their conversation in order to tal's to two men (about 30-35

years old).

AIWHIP-1 not them briefly and was told by one

of then that they were fron Oriente Province.

ANWRIP-1

stated that he could tell innediately by their accenta

that they were not Cuban.

In order to confirm this be

asked them where in Oriente they were from because one of the

Cuban officials In Parts vas from Oriente and always wanted

to chat with any people fron Oriente who passed through Paris.

Aftor & briel stumbling exercise, groping for a nano of a

eity in Oriente, the "Cuban" confessed that they were not

Cubane but Venezuelans.

ANYHIP did not have suffident time

to learn more about them.

The two Venezuelans spent about

thirty minutes talking with UNSNAFU-19 while ANWHIP vas there.

He did not know how much longer previous to this thirty

minutes that the Venezuelans had been in the Embassy or to bom

olse they talied. AHIP I suggested that UNSNAFU-9 might

be able to obtain the names of the two Venezuelans in question.

UNS NATU-19'B Membership in the "Gaslight Club".

As a support service for a

J operation

get

UNSNAFU-19 membership in the Gaslight Club where it would be

attempted to run a highly desirable female agent against him.

ANTASH-l stated that he had been unable, due to UNSNATU-19's

busy schedule, to get the latter down to the Caslight Club

and enrolled as & sember.

ANIHIP stated, however, that be

could do the job just as well by taring out a gift membership

for UNSNAFU-19 through the Gaslight Club in New Yore City,

and sending UNSNAFU-19's membership card and sey to hin in

Paris.

He encouraged ANNHIP-l to do thie and to keep us

advised of his progress.

---

## Page 3

Diacles Torraiba

1.

Cuban Air Force Comandante DIEbOIS, Regarding

DICLOIS who had allegedly arrived In

Paris Iron Algeria during

the time that Sanchez and AWHIP-l were there, AMIRIP-! said

that he did not know the man or did he have any information on

• Comandante with that name or a name that sounded l1ie that.

He said that he bad heard sonething about a Comandante with a

Strange name but he could not contribute more than that.

He

muggested that AMIASH-1 might be able to identify the man.

African trip,

and probably also the one to China as a member of

¿his security force.

ANNHIP said that the name did not register

with hin and he had no other information to give. He again

suggested that AMLASH-l might be able to belp.

One thing more

ANHIP. saidiund that he did not thin: that any of Che's security

men were naned Bernie, and he thought this was not a correct

v

Kaon

name.

He did say, however, that while he was in Paris

been

two security types there who were guarding two or three

dark green trunks about the sire of foot lociers and four or

five suitcases. ANYHIP said that they both had pistols, one a

Soviet machine pistol and the other a 32 eslibre sadrid but he

AHHIP does not

remember the exact date that they left Paris for

remonbers that the flight left at 4:50 in the afternoon and

toos place about two weeks ago (ca. 5 February).

AWWHIP says that

UNSNAFU-9 inows both of these men and could be contacted for their

names and & better description.

h. Carlos Frandus.

AWHIP l had no additional

Informatics on Franqui except

to say that he new he uns not

happy. He also believed that AMASH-l had additional information

on Franque.

1.

B & L Locomotives.

With regard to the requirements

concerning secuilty measures on the shipment of locomotives to

Cuba, AHIP said that he bad no additional information to

contribute.

AWHIP also stated that he had obtained no additional

Information from FISSOLA, the engineer concerned with the shipment,,

to, and the use of, these locomotives.

AMHIP stated that he

thought AlLASH-l migbt bave some additional information.

also stated that he thought "Americo" tal too much and that

maybe "Mario" would be best to assist in the operation.

(Comment: See Ronts for further edification of the subject.)

JI a

---

## Page 4

with ANLASH-1 and had given appropriate Instructions to

AMNHIP2 In the event of the receipt of letters Irom

Havana signed by AllASH-l or signed by a "Cuban" whoa

AWHIP 2 did not know. (Comment: It was & good thing we

reviewed acconmodation address with AlIHIP-!, see below.

For the record AMLASH-l will address bie letters to ANHIP 2

other in care of his business address in Bone which 1e:

Roma

OT tO ANYHIPt?'s business address in Geneva (which incidentally

1s Identical with his hone address, as AMHIP operates in

Geneva from his apartment):

_ Geneva, Seltzerland.

(It should be noted that AMHIP»? intends to open a proper

office in Geneva in the near future.

However, this i8 no

particular reason

for changing the accommodation address ir

Geneva.)

AhIp»' stated that he had given the undersigned'a

postoffice box in lashington (Willian A. Thompson,

P.O.

Bor 1224. Apoy Station, Washington, D.C.

to AlHIP"?, belleving

that this would expadite our recelpt of letters fron AMLASH-1•

AaHIP-1 was told that his concern for rapid transaittal of

the lotter was certainly appreciated, but that for security

sake ,

It was much better that they be forwarded in a cover

envelope to ANTHIP"s address in New York City, preforably.

hia business address:

AMPHIP: was also told

to renind

ANHIP 2 that he should handle the letters he received from

Havana am little as ponible and put then in cover envelopes

and send them as quicily as poseible to AWHIP-l in New Yor

city.

In this connection it remaine the problem of obtaining

these letters on a expeditious basis when AHID. 18, for

example, out of town for i prolonged absence.

1t. 18

muggested that Willlan Thompson's accommodation business

In Washington be

&iven to AWHIP'& father no that he may

forward AHIP-?'a letters to "ashington without undue delay

(This is an excellent enample of & breadow in cospartentatior

In CubRa operations. )

Paris Embasay Personnel. According to a telephon

eall on 18 february from AMLASH-T in Paris, AWHIP-I states

that AMASE-l had said that UNSNAFU-8 and, perhaps, UNSNAFU-?

would be out ni jobs in the near future in accordance with

the present economy drive by the cubans.

ANLASH stated that

InShA/US most cortainly would be outted, while UNSNAFU-9'E

suBe as more uncertain.

....n..

---

## Page 5

•I. Cuban Goverent Financial Straits. (Rel.

PARI 9067, IN (3372, & February 65) ASIip-T added some

additional consents on the silver payments cited in ref.

ATHIPl stated that the Cubars vere apparently very anxious

to soll the silver cited in Ref.

Actually ANTHIp-l

stated that the total anount of the payments would be in

the neighborhood of $350,000 and this included antiques,

postage stasps, silver bullion, and "worsed" silver articles.

AMWHIP also-stated that be had been anzed if he would

be willing buy $100,000 worth of silver on the spot, the

cash to be placed in a reputable international ban..

This dincussion had been carried on by international telephone

with Popin Sanchez, brother-in-law of Celia Sanchez, and Jose

Iglesias Loper, good friend of AHIP-l and former Havana

Jeweler. AMKHIP-I talced to the above in Ravana from the Cuban

Embassy, Paris. This $100,000 was a part of the total $350,000

mentioned above.

AHIP-I turned down the sale, stating that

he did not normally deal in silver, and was not sure of the

value of the worked items offered for sale. AwHIP-I stated

that this sale as to be executed on behalf of Castro

personally and ild not ascessarily reflect the overall

Iinancial pleture of the Cuban government.

AWHIP-1 Stated

that AMLASHl had told hin that auch an action vas typica

of Castro, who in

many Instances, conducted business

arrangements of his own, without regard or without consultation,

with the membors of his governent normally Involved in Cuban

national finances. AMIHIP-1 stated that UNSNAFU-19 alao bad

Intimated the above.

ANWHIP-I stated that he belloved that

this noney was needed for the dompayment on two factories

which had been purchased by the Cubans in Great Britain.

He also stated

that he believed these factories vere for

the processing of agricultural products of some type.

Also,

concerning the silver, according to AWHIP-l, that 30% bad

been reduced to bullion and that the rest consisted of "orsed"

silver articles (antiques, art treasures, jewelry, eto.)

AWHIP utated that this entire offering of silver antiques, ete.

had eventually been sold on the spot in Havans for cash to

an unknow person of Turkish Italian bac ground.

AINEIP

tried to find out the identity of the person but neither

UNSNAPU 19, In person, nor Igleslas, by pbone,

would

reveal the

identity of the buyer.

AMWHIP! offered to write

or ass Iglesias for the nane, but ve cautioned against it

ns shoving undue interest in

the matter. AiHlP-1 was told

that 11 he ever saw I¿lesias in person and could safely 88s

him he should do so together with any details he could

obtain about the transaction

financial problens.

---

## Page 6

11-00000

the Paris kabessador's conference in Madrid, UNSNATU-19 carried

« very large truns in his car.

It was so heavy that the rear of

the car vas clearly weighted-down. AWHIP speculated that this

trunk had been brought to Madrid by Arnold RODRIGUEZ Camps and

was turned over to INSNAPU-19 prior to the latter's return to

Paris.

In connection with this, AWHIPl received a phone call

from AMLASH-1 fron Paris stating that UNSNAFU-19 was going to

Geneva on the 18th of February and had invited AMLASH-1.

Envana via Madrid on the 23rd of

On the norning of

the 19th of February AMllPal received & call fros AWHIP 2

stating that UNSNAFU-19 was driving to Geneva on the 19th.

He

had with his some $11,000 in silver articles.

AMIRIP-2, who saw

the Items, said that the "stuff was cheap" (meaning inferior

workmanship and quality).

AMLASH-1, Morale and Finances.

We then broached the

topio of AlASH'& attitude and present frame of mind after our

refusal to give hia $10,000 that he requested for operational

AWHIP- stated that he thought AMLASHl was not overly

disturbed by this, but that in general he was gonewhat upset by

the fact that he

had even entered into negotiations with ABIDDY-l,

objecting to his "political mentality".

It might be noted that

ANEHIP-1 also stated his reservations about AMBIDDY-1.

From

this, ve derived the feeling that AMLASH-l and AwHIPal both

had atrong but unspecified reservations about the motivation and

morality of ANBIDDY-.

AMLASH said that due to this reservation

Of AMLASH-l's, and due to the relative newness of the contact,

AMLASH-I was extremoly reluctant to take any noney Iron AMBIDDY-1,

which, of course,

in the end he did not. AWHIp-l stated that

AMLASH felt that he had been pushed by the Americans into a

basically unwanted relationship with AMBIDDY-l.

that he, as well as AMtASH-1 were still baffled at the Amortem

reluctance to deal across the board on all mattere with

ANTASE-1. He stated that AMLASH-1 had received certain item

fron AMBIDDY» that he was not able to obtain from the Americans.

AHHIP-l made it a point to state that AMLASH-l noted immediately

and pointedly that the items provided to bin by AMBIDDY 1 vere

not homenade nor apparently one-of-*ind itens. (the Inference bere

oing quite clearly conveyed to the undersigned was that them

tem obviously came fros commercial sources.

.. €

/gis

---

## Page 7

14-00000

critical value to MILASH 1a any plans he mould forsulato.

(AMalP cited,

for examplo, Cocandante Mieves, comandante

D& the Port of Havana, who

in bia position 10 of great valu

tO ANTASE-I LOT ODVIOUR TOREODE.)

entalay money peraittod these poople to remain in place by

providing an addition to their incomes, no otheruise due to

the high cost of living today in Havana, would be coopelled

for economic reasons to seek esploysent elsewhore. The

undereigned then asked the rather pointed question of whether

OF nOt AMLASE-, got any of the soney that he needed. AsTu

"ald, "Jeh, I gave 1t to hin". No asked hin hot much and

be besitated.

After a little discussion and a direct questios,

be stated that be bad given $7,000 tO ALASH-l. AHIPI

stated that AlLASH-l did not, la fact, have the money jot and

that the money would be given to him probably this weekend

(30-31 February) 1n Paris by ARIP-2.

AKSHIP-I stated that

ANNHIP? hnd bacono Involved in the traneaction because he

had to appoal to him for help in raising the money 1n a fairly

confidential' Baaser.

Arrangements to give AKASH-l soney

during his stay in kadrid had fallen through, ANTHIP had

learned,

thua

tho reason for AIRHIp-g's being forced to go

to Paris in order to give it to bin this weekend.

also stated that AILASH-1 had asked Jobe Iglestas in Havana

вот вове 3,000 ревой.

Igleslas vas not ablo to raise the su

at the time requated.

Whether or not be is attempting to do

5o now, or has succeeded in doing so during AlLASA-l'a abaence,

1a not

known at this time. It abould be noted that during

dincussions concerning the AMBIDDY/ALASH rolationship, ANTHIP

stated that AMBIDDY had told AMLASH of at leant sane portion of

his connections with the Americans.

AsHlp-l stated that he had

sat in or the discussions during which tine ALBIDDY purportedly

ando this atatement.

ANHIP also stated, as he bad done in

previous seetings,

that neither ho or AlASt could understand

why the Americana did not nate further use of ANLASE-3 and

AMLASH-2.

He also felt that there vore pany bite and piecos

of the whole picture that vore not tied into a neat bindle and

ntilized to their full extent by the Americans.

The undersigned

at no time sanittod that he wao aware of any AlBIDDY/Aserican

relationahip as alluded to by ANIHIP-l.

he felt that he could produce more informtion and better serve

KUARK Intereste 11 he had a case officer who knn all aspocta

of the AMLASH complex and the cast of other Cuban characters la

Europe in wbom there was an interest and to whon Almalp-l had

access.

presumably other European-based case officers) with whom he

has dealt) was very helpful and that be enjoyed their relationship.

but that there was an obvious lack of depth of knowledgo of n11

ASPOCtE Of an AMASH-AWHIP oparation and also of those principally

1222

for the record, AHIIP-l agala stressod the fact that

case officer|

I(and

ARE ET

• Sy

---

## Page 8

-8-

Involving only ANTHIP. He felt that he could be more effective

with continuous guidance and direction during his European

mojourns.

CAHIP also implied that the case nificers were

understandably busy with their many local probiens and could

not devote an much time as possibly vas desirable to AwHIp-l'e

6850.

On the other hand, AMHIP-l delicatoly submitted that

11 he was willing to tase the time for the operations, and 1f

In fact they were worthwhile and necessary, we should make

every reasonable effort to glean the nost benefit from big

efforte.

In sumary, 1i feasible, he prefers to deal with one

case officer on all aspects of his operational activity.

ANLASH-. According to AIWHIP-1, he and AMLASH-l have

established an open code for signalling his desire for exfiltration

or to inform ANNHIP l when the date of his Attempt will be.

Exfiltration Involves the use of birthday greetings to Loretta

nsa sylvia Indicate exiiltration fron latanzas or Miranar,

respectively.

AMBIDDY-1 presumably has the details for execution

once he la inforned of the reyword by ANHIP 1. The Attempt 1a

to be noted by any mention of the name SIMON, together with a date,

which

10 IT..

p.

Deception Ploy (Rumor plant with UNSNAFU-19).

In response to

the request for his opfnion on. this subject

after it hnd boon outlined as agreed upon at Headquarters,

AHIP-l stated that he thought that he could carry this off

without UNSRAFU19 being suspicious.

He stated that this type

of information

would have to come forth at the right moment in

& antural mnner, and during a rather lengthy personal meeting.

He felt that to do this by telephone or letter would be totally

out of keeping with his normal relationship with UNSNAFU-19

and that it should not be done in that manner.

In response to

the suggestion, hovever, he said that it could be done if hia

stopping off in Paris to see UNSNAFT»19 too's place as a part of

a normal business trip to Europe.

He also stated that he felt

he had to have something upon which to peg the story. AWHIPl

areed with the feasibility of the suggestion of putting him In

touch with a reputable businessman in New Yor's, who has good

connections in Goverment circles in Washington and whom he

conceivably could have inown for sone time as a result of a

mormal businoss relationship.

AWHIP-I agreed to return to

Europe in sve or three woe‹e

especially to perform this tae'..

He was in agreement with the

undersigned's idea that, in order

to play it as safely as possible, this meeting with UNSNAFU-19

should not take place at least until after the 24th of February,

the expected retura date of AMLASH-I to Havana. Bota, for this

Ăge:

---

## Page 9

14-00000

reason and for Artilps or husiness matters, ve will progra

his return to Lurope for sonetine during the firat or second

weeks of March 1965.

30 HE L

AMIHIP-1 was told that arranzemente vould be

made for him to knon about, or actually to meet, the ostenelble

source of this information in New Yor. sonetine during the last

mok of Februry or the firat veer of March. He was told almo

to xeep in touch with the undersigned in the event of any

news received fron Burope concerning AMLASH-l oF any of the

onst of characters in this memorandu.

1. The meeting terminated at 1610 hours and there vere

no incidences of a socurity nature to be reported.

WH/C/FI/TC

"43-

1...

1ES:31

dora

---

