# 104-10107-10195

## Page 1

104-10107-10195-

DANIEL FLORES

---

## Page 2

14-00000

::a:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

OGC 75-4191

13 November 1975

Personal and Confidential

The Honorable Barnard F. Jennings

Senior Judge, Circuit Court for

Fairfax County

4000 Chain Bridge Road

Fairfax, Virginia 22030

Dear Judge Jennings:

An employee of this Agency who falls within that special category

of employees that members of my office have previously discussed with

you has been summoned for jury duty at Circuit Courtroom #6, Fairfax

County Courthouse, commencing 17 November 1975. It is my understanding

that you believe such employees should not serve on a jury.

The employee is identified by a copy of his jury summons returned

under separate cover and, as previously agreed, we ask that this letter

and the name of the employee not be joined together. Mr. Edmund Cohen

of my office will be pleased to explain the circumstances further if you

desire. He can be reached at the follo..ing number: 351-5648.

We appreciate your efforts on our behalf.

Sincerely,

Johns. Warnin

John S. Warner

General Counsel

OGC: ECohen: aam

Distribution:

Original - Addressee (delivered by courier 11/13/75)

1 JURY DUTY

I - EC signature file

1 - Chrono

NOTE: Per GMBreneman's call to Mrs. Chesky,

Judge Jenning's secretary, Mr. Daniel Flores

has been excused from jury duty. Sandy called

Mr. Flores with this message.

Alyce 11/14/75

III

---

## Page 3

UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONE

ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Opional)

Daniel Flores

- Jury Summons

FROM:

Frank Stewart

OS/ EAB

1O: (Officer designation, room numbor, ond

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION NO

7720

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

14 < 75-4073

11/7/85

7 NOV 75

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show from wham

to whom.

Drom a line across column offer ouch comment. l

OGC

7Đ07-

To 1.

Request OGC action Re

attached.

2.

11.

12.

13.

OS/EAB

4E 33

15.

FORM

3-01

610 USE PROVOU

FOMONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NTERMAI

SE ONL

UNCLASSIFIED

IIT

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIAIE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

DATE

TO . :::

DIRECTOR OF. SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

(Stall, division or office head and security officer, where

assigned)

7 November 1975

THRU:

Chief LA/COG

Chiot La Security Ou

ROOM NO.

AND BLOG.

PHONE

NAME

AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print

COMPONENT

ype)

3D5325

7144

FROM:

Daniel Flores GS-12

LA/COG

DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH

APPROVAL 15

REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS

CONCERNED.

DATES.

(Refer to HR 10-y before completing)

On 29 October 1975 I received a summons from the Circuit Court

of Fairfax County, Virginia to serve on jury duty beginning

17 November 1975 for two months.

Request

I am presentl!

Guidance.

32

₴.

REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS

MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

IGNATURE OF REQUESTING EMPLOYEE

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF, DIVISION

OR OFFICE MEAD

CONCUR: 11/7/75

Зміст Ата

OPERATING OFF STAL

FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED,

DENIED)

FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

1019 879

is:

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

II3

---

## Page 5

TO :

i to an ordne of the Circui: Court of Faiate. Corin, Virginia, received on

besiuning at 8:30 M on the Folday of Dovenor 2, in Circuit Courtroon

¿rd floor, Fairfax County Courthouse, 4000 Chain brin¿ inci, Fairfax, Va 22001.

Lions you nay have vili in answered whon you rport in mut date. If any

iy procludes you fron ruporting as directed above, wraor Cald the Clerk of

•; office at 691-2227 or 691-2228.

Any corrospoid.:

"ricing to this summons

i lie directed to the Chief Circuit Court Julie as din Mi County and not to üne

Picase clock your milenge from your lion to tin murdouse and be prepared

rivide to the Clerk of court your roundtris

wage dü inbursement purposes.

Fain

Cities of

inds Church

---

