# 104-10186-10150

## Page 1

104-10186-10150

INFORMATION REPORT

SINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUMECT

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEM

REPORT NO.

Direccion General de Inteligencia DATE DISTR.

(DGI) Personnel Abroad

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CX-316/02286-65

1 June 1965

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. (March 1965)

• FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who sorved with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

1.

2.

The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon-

sibility for physical of other security of the Cuban Embassy or

Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

The DGI would not use = regular loreign-service officer in the

field because he

has not been cleared and briefed and is not,

therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks.

If a

foreign-service officer is briefed, it may

be assumed that he

hag been cleared and that he is thereafter considered a member

of the DGI (at least by the DGI).

On returning to Havana per-

manently,

such a foreign-service officer briofed for a field

assignment normally would be sent to DGI Headquarters rather

than

to the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY.

I NAVY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

(Nore: fiald distribution Indicated by " #".)

_I&NS

I AIR

INSA

1 XR

1 OCR

(FBI

N

RINFORMATION REPORTI

INFORMATIONS REPORT

WIC /CA

WIC/310

WHC/RE

DWE/5/R

WE

I CI/R&A

WIIC/OS

5

RID/AY

WHIC/WAVE

TOTAL HIC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

ЗЛЕ

L/ HASIL

LIAISON

JL8-2182

NP (AV4LG-1)

_CULI-316/02286-

1OXCS1A914T

#64441

20: 09

3

2

Y/BR

---

