# 104-10433-10005

## Page 1

104-10433-10005

35 - 539

23 November 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. The information was received.

and the message contains cryptonyms,

Agency unit designations, information confirming the existence of an Agency

station in a foreign country and filing instructions internal to the Agency.

This denial was made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2) and

(b) (3).

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

(SECRET)

ivit

ROUTING

5

TO:

DIRECTOR

FROM:

MONTEVIDEO

ACTION:

INFO:

1/ INT 6, WH 9, SR

TDCS-3/565,829

23 NOV 63 2108Z

SECRET 232D18Z

IN 67186

DIR CITE MONT 8397)

INTEL

Intel Cable Regulz ne

police Protection for Cutene

SUPDATA: SOURCE:

AVALANCHE-S. WITH HIS USUAL INACCURACY, EVCANE I)

HAD ADVISED THE STATION THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY HAD REQUESTED

POLICE PROTECTION BEFORE THE SHOOTING. HOWEVER,

AVALANCHE 6 CHECKED THE OFFICIAL LOG IN PRESENCE OF CO AND. CONFIRMED

IT OCCURRED AN HOUR AFTER SHOOTING ANNOUNCED.

CLASSIFICATION & SPY 1975

FILED:

232018Z

DOI:

22 NOVEMBER 1963

CONDUCTED ON.

ELARIMPDET CL BY 0/22:08

PADA: URUGUAY, MONTEVIDEO, 23 NOVEMBER .63

SUBJECT: CUBAN PRECAUTIONS FOLLOWING ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDEN

KENNEDY

APPRE

(HIM 2414)

SOURCE:

IW COMMENT:

NO SEPARATE

CABLE DISTRISUTION

I3 BEING MADE OF THIS TDOS

(B))

Document Number

1539

for FOlA Review on *APR 1976

WH/ REG

WH/PACY

RELEASI

WELCI

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

24

08242

1963

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

01-289248

TDCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

PHUM-2414

EVALANCHE

X-RIE, COPY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUPI

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

•WHERADING

DECLASSIPIGATIO!

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TELEGRAM INS

ORMATION REPC

RT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This

malerial

contains

information

aflecting

and 294, the transmission

revelation of which in any"

Dalense

of

the

United State's within

manner to an

¡Phie Espronoge Lamo, Tilla 19, U.S.C

Sece.

low.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Then Filled In)

COUNTRY

(URUGUAY)

FORCIBI

SUBJECT

CUBAN PRECAUTIONS FOLLOWING. ASSASSINATION

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/565,829

24 NOVEMBER 1963

DATE DISTR.

OF. PRESIDENT KENNEDY

PRECEDENCE

ROUT INE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE. ACO.

APPRAISAL

22 NOVEMBER 1963

URUGUAY, MONTEVIDEO,) (23 NOVEMBER. 1963)

REFERENCES

IN 67186

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO. HUM-2414

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

URUGUAYAN POLICE OFFICIAL (B).

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE

1. RICARDO GUTTIEREZ TORRENS, THIRD SECRETARY AND CIS/

SERVICE)

CHIEF OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MONTEVIDEO, TELEPHONED THE

MONTEVIDEO POLICE AT 1718 HOURS (MONTEVIDEO TIME) ON 22 NOVEMBER TO

REQUEST EXTRA POLICE PROTECTION FOR THE CUBAN EMBASSY. GUTTIEREZ

SAID THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED REPORTS, THAT A MOB WAS PLANNING

TO STONE THE EMBASSYS. (FIELD COMMENT: THE NEWS OF PRES

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

KENNEDYS ASSASSINATION: WAS RECEIVED./IN.MONTEVIDEONAT

CONDUCTED ON? & APR 1976

APPROXIMATELY 16DD HOURS, MONTEVIDEO TIME).

E/&2MPDET CL BY 0 / 2208

2.J THE POLICE FURNISHED EXTRA PROTECELON TO BOT THE CUPAN

EMBASSY AND TO THE SOVIET LEGATION ALTHOUGH THE LATTER HADLY

(SECRET)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

demngrading aal

STATE/INH

DIA

ARMY/ACSI MARY...

AIR'

• ICS:

SECDE

NSA FINIC

ONE.

ORR: " SONX

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

10031 35₴

-539

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

FORM

20-62

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(201-28924500

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

When Fillec: In

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/565,829

' 6. 7186

PAGE:

2

MADE NO REQUEST, AS OF I6RD HOURS 23 NOVEMBER THERE HAVE BLEN

NO DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST EITHER. DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATION

(FIELD

COMMENT: THE POPULACE OF MONTEVIDEO/HAS BEEN PROFOUNDLY SHOCKED

AND GRIEF STRICKEN OVER PRES KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION.

A. SPONTANEOUS

CROWD ESTIMATED BY PRESS TO COMPRISE(380D. PERSONS

MARCHED TO AMERICAN EMBASSY RESIDENCE. EVENING OF

22 NOVEMBER TO EXPRESS THEIR, SORROW) •

-THORH29L3A HEREA

www....to

3. (FIELD DISSEMS STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCSO.)

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

(NO FONEIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

13-00000

.33 = 537

23 November 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. The document is a memo

which recites the speculative thinking of an Agency officer on the assassination

of President Kennedy. The paper deals with a possible explanation of the

assassination. He treats the problem experimentally with a thesis which is

not born out by facts available then or later developed. The thinking

expressed was imaginative but not definitive.. No decision was based on

this paper: It appears clearly to be the type of documents contemplated for

exemption under subsection. (e) (5). The document also relates information

received from a

service. It contains information from and

about a sensitive source. The document also identifies Agency officers and

components and contains internal Agency fling instructions. This denial

was made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b)(2), (b) (3) and

(b) (5) .

IRs

---

## Page 6

13-00000

To:

Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

(5X-25598

To

From:

Cates, (sR/cI)

PiTILES

Subject: °Cole 7m(Chtel, SR Division, re Possible KOB role In Kennedy)

Slaying

SHINOVES

1.

01 (Ir. Angleton:)

"I. I desire that you consider these reactions to the Kennedy

assassination:

Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radio statements

as heard in London attributed the assassination to "right

wing elements." Only as the true identity of the believed

assassin became known did Moscow begin to complain that

U.S. reactionaries were using Oswald as a pawn.

b. Should not the assigment of I3th Dept. OffiCers to the KEB

residency in the United Nations in New York be considered

1n a new 11ght?)

08

c.. (I discovered from

during our long

and exceptionally valuable discussions, that one of Harold

Wilson's principal scientific advisors 1s Captain Ian Maxwell,

who has a long Soviet Intelligence background.

shed new light on AFLADLE's report LI.e., that Harold Wilson

may be & soviet agent?

2. Putting it baldly, was Oswald, unwittingly or wittingly, part of

a plot to murder President Kennedy In Dallas as an attempt to

further exacerbate sectional strife and render the U.S. Government

capable of dealing with Soviet initiatives over the next

year? II AFLADLE's views on Wilson and the information noted in

paragraph le above have any substance (and they cannot be ignored)

this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the

next seyeral months, for which the Soviets have made careful,

Jong-range preparations."

The above reference to 13th Dept. officers in New York refers to the

presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, In New York or

Washington of one or two known officers of the 13th Department of the Ist Chief

Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB.

This department is charged with

"liquid affairs," sabotage and assassination.

One of the 13th Deote afficers,

Document Nuinber

-537

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1975

for FOLA Roview on APR 1976

RECORD COPY

ELSZIMPDET CL. BY 0 12208.

23Nv63

001-289248)

REVIEWED BY FBHUFK TASK FORCE

ON 9-13-98 dak

DY RELEASE iN FULL

• : RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

fRes

---

## Page 7

13-00000

oy the way, met clandestinely with a Soviet "exchange student" from a

Pennsylvania university during the school year 1962-63, which suggests that

the Soviet student 1s also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps

significantly, his course of studies was in food chemistry!

3. You will note that Mr.. Murphy's comments come without benefft of

the traces we passed to you earlier today, showing that Oswald had contact

Ith & 13th Dept. representative In Mexico City.

really rather then ostensibly Innocent.

---

