# 104-10192-10132

## Page 1

104-10192-10132

$.090 T BE, NO

JRIWAVE

12500-4

CLASSIFILO MESSAGE

49/SPS EC REI

TeRt

TOM

ROUTING

$

.8

.:7.

ACTION

INFO

WH/SA 8

DCI, D/DCI, DOP,

AD/C1 2, AD/NE.

ISECRET 16047Z

15 LEB 65 IN 8I11S ASITZ Spi

C DIR INFO LANT

BARR

PlINTEL TYPIC

CITE WAVE 8315

AM retar

VEG 610ч

PS 4/2*

ABSTRACT

SUPDATA: AMTOD-I WHO SPOKE WLIH AMDOG-I WAVE AREA 9. FEBRUARY

SEL

3575 FOR INFO SHARK

VI SECOND FIELD COMMENT PARA 3

BASED AMWAX-I (RID: INDEX

FILED 16834721

REPORT CLASS CONFTDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

R

COUNTRY: CUBA/DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

'SUEJI| PLOT OF JOSE RICARDO RABEL NUNEZ TO USE JURE'S MY VENUS IN

O A POSSIBLE RAID AGAINST CUEN TP

net cita TP

" DO1: 385 JANUARY - 9 FEBRUARY 1905

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAM: (1I FEBRUARY. 1965)

MICROFILMED

1O:1IEA.

DEA.CrO. SER.

UFG-6754

SOURCE: A YOUNG CUBAN: EXILE WHO HAS BEEN TRAINED IN INFORMATION

IN COMMENT,

RAJO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

I TO PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS ALEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY BENDINI

E FELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

RELEASING I WO

389

CATE DISTRIBUTEDI

SECRET

TOCS

TROUTINE

JASED

or.

LAISON:

Y

I PAT

19-300-4

Isifetis

8: -8.671

AbASP'O

4BR

---

## Page 2

SLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

•POVIING

FROM

ACTION

NO

TEP!:

PAGE TWO

IN 81115

COLLECTION. HIS PAST REPORTING HAS BEEN ACCURATE BUT LACKS DEPTH.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM À PERSON WHO HAS BEEN WITH MANUEL

RAY RIVERO, BUT WHOSE RELIABILITY IS UNDETERMINED.

IN COMMENT.

RELEASING 1 WO

DATE DISTRIBUTEDI

TOCS

TROUTINE

BASED ON

LIAISON

TPRIORITY

alei

MOM AUTONARIE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

---

## Page 3

38594

16 €

01-88

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY

DATE O

INFO

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCS

DISTR

SUBJECT

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

RES

FIELD REPORT NO.

N 81115

AND

APPRAISALS

- 1. AS OF 2 FEBRUARY 1965, JOSE RICARDO RABEL NUNEZ, CAPTAIN

OF THE MV VENUS, WAS STILL PLOTTING GINGE NUEER

201-239 293

RAY RIVLRO,

LEADER OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUENNA (UUR:, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

SOMETIME BEFORE THE END C' FLERJARI RISEL PLANS TO TAKE

OVER THE IV VENUS, THE TWO BOSTON WALI:S, VENUS NO. I AND VENUS

NO. 2, ANO ALL THE WEAPONS AND LOL INiTI MEN JURE HAS AT ITS

LUMINICAN ENSE. HE IS SELIEVED TO SE FLINNING TO EXFILTRATE HIS

WIFL FROM CUBA AND/OR PLANNING TO USE THE VENUS IN A COMMANDO RAID

AGAINST A: UNIDENTIFIED CUSAN TARGET. HI WILL THEN PROCELO 10 AN

UNIDENTIFISO KEY KNOM TO RICARDO ADOL IS LOGOS WHERE THE WEAPONS

201-731777

CONFIDENTIAL

STATINA DIA AMYLASA MAVY AIR

SECDEEN:.

NIC

USIA, OCI ONE OCR. ORE

---

## Page 4

PLACE CONFAULS ABOVE SUE DARLA LIST AN I MUST LUDANiS AS LIAI

N7O +00 1201

IN SINS

PAGE 2

CONFIDENTIAL

TOCS

WILL BE CACHED. AFTER THE VESSEL HAS GEEN STRIPPED OF ARMS, HE

WILL PROCEED TO MIAMI AND RELINQUISH CONSAND OF THE VESSEL TO THE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES. THE WEAPONS ON THE KEY WILL

THEN BE-USED TO ARM A 50-FOOT CRAFT BELONGING TO PEPIN CARBONEL,

A FORMER MEMBER OF JURE WHO HAD BELN ABCARO THE VENUS. AS OF 2

FEGRUARY, THE VENUS WAS ANCHOREO DiE THE MAINA RIVER BUT WAS TO BE

TAKEN TO THE OZAMA RIVER NEAR SANTO DOMINGO WITHIN A WEEK.

29 RAY THINKS THE PLOTTING HAS SUBSIDED ANG GAVE RABEL $1, 8852S

ON 350 JANUARY TO COVER BOAT EXPENS SO ML ALSO GAVE EACH MAN

AT THE BASE $5D.

ON Z FEERUARY, THE FOLLOWING CREW MEMBERS LEFT JURE'S

DOMINICAN BASE FOR PUERTO RICO ABO. RO THE SHARK VO A CRAFT OWNED

DY INRIQUENCASACOS, A CUBAN EXILE IHO FISHES NEAR BEATA ISLANO IN

THE DOMINICAN REPUELIC: ALSERTON: ONSO CRUZ, ROBERTO CANAL

GARCIA, RAFAERINAYOLA, ABELANCONIO LINGUES, MAN.EL GARCIA FERNANDEZ,

AND LISTORIEL TORRES JONARAON. IF ELS CONSENT: CSDO-312/80002-04,

DATED 19 OCTOBER 1904, REPORTED TM.I INSIQUE CASADO CUERVO WAS THE

OWNER OF A "MOTHER GOAT" WHICH WAS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN

ABOUT LATE SEPTEMBER AND WHICH WAS RELATED TO IN ALLEGED ATTEMPT

BY RAY TO ENTER CUBA. THE SMARA V IS BELIEVED TO BE A FORMER U.S.

NAVY CUTTER, ABOUT EL FEET LONG:) PNEN THE NE ARRIVED IN PUERTO

RICO, THEY WENT TO THE HOME OF RAY WHEPE TREY VERE FURNISHED PLANE

TICKETS TO MIAMI SY RAY'S WIFE MIOCENCIO, LEAL HAD DEPARTED, FOR

MIANI PREVIOUSLY FROM THE ELVINICAN REPUGLIC AÑOARD THE MY TITAN.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

NO I-00 1201

IN 81115

PAGE 3.

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS

(FiELO CONMENT: A CUBAN EXILE WITT EXCELLENT CONTACT IN THE ANTILLEAN

MARINE STIPPING CORPORATION IN MI: 11 REPORTED THAT INCOCENTE LEAL

HERRERA ARRIVED IN MIAMI ABOARD IT.: N/V TITAN FROM SANTO DOMINGO

AT 1I:N A.M. ON 9 FESRUARY, THE : ITLiE IS ONE OF SEVERAL CARGO

VESSELS USED BY THE ANTILLEAN MARI LE SHIPPING CORPORATION IN TRADE

THROUGHOUT THE CARIBBEAN). IN ADITION TO RASEL, THE FOLLOWING

PERSONS REMAINED ABOARD THE VENUS: GILBERTO EVIDICFFUNDORA ALCAZAR,

MAX IN OEL GADO FRONETA, PAEL TEZAANDEZ PEREZ, NO MUSERNATOS:

ARALUCE.

4. ON 9 FEBRUARY RAY SAID IN ! IAMI THAT HENCEFORTH HE WOULO:

INFORM POTENTIAL RECRUITS THAT THEY WOULD BE UNDER VERBAL AGREEMENT

TO REMAIN AT HIS BASE FOR AT LEAST THREE MONTHS SEFORE UNDERTAKING

ANY OPERATIONS.

5.. ALSO ON O FEERUARY, RAY SAID THAT ME MÃO A MEETING WITH

SOME UNIDENTIFIED VENEZUELAN LAUS LEADETS IN MIAMI. HE LEFT FOR

PUERTO RICO AT 1:35 P.M. ON 9 FIS JARY.

6. FIELO COMMENT: FOR PREVIViS REPORTING ON RAY'S INTERNAL.

PROELEMS WITHIN JURE, SEE TOCSDS-: 15/SABINI -Ó5 ANO

TDCSDS-315/145283-65..

7• FIELO DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINESO, CONKNISTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, lUISA FOI AND CUSICIS.

ENS iF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

---

