# 104-10054-10061

## Page 1

1104-10054-10061

(

SECRET

IET

10 Feb 77

Source:

Notes made by d. Goodpesture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

Background on Mexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1.

coverage. From the time the Mexico Station was opened in

April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to

exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

team and a nail intercept operation.

8. Phone taps were placed by

the intens

was hendled by David WIISTED (pseudo). The number of lines

tapped was linted by availability of a listening

post nearby

(since the taps were not made in the main

and English/

Generally

these agents (nost]

• Mexican American) were related

that time felt was good security in that

tailed about shop, they would talk to each other.)

bo Three photo sites were handled by Anderson with the help

of Harry Kahoney (retired, living in Chicago) and IDY ISD

people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment

devices.

These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LIMITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA) • LIMITED was a fixed site bang opposite across

the street fron the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy which had

both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Northliest corner. of their compound and LIMITED vas diagonally

across & double barrelled street

on

Si judge page 1a.

ОСЛЕ

L600164

02078.

'JFK-O56

Copy 20f7

13

-3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

that block. LIVITID was the first base and it operaied strictly on an

or crimental basis in the early stages. I think the lexi Station bought

one storey

this property (a/Spanish Colonial stone house) through LINOUSIE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word that the photo of "uniden nan" was being

released to the

public by the Warren Cormission. The photo operators

were moved to another apt

nearby. The property sas sold (under an operational agreenent with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment biding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the sare side of the street

as LIMITED but in the middle of the block South.. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Einbassy. The agents in LEITED and LILYRIC (both

Vexican fanilies) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIC was a rented apartment. LICALIA, the third phot

was located

in one of a row of four houses on the South ste

Soviet Enbassy compound

which the hezico station purcrased

0os81953 (cleck date), also using

This site overlooked the back garden of

LOUSINE as the purchase

the Soviet Enbassy compo

and.

The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (uno at thet time were largely

unidentified in Mexico Station records). The three photo sites were handled by

(Mexican citizen of U.S. mother ho

collected the filn elkedmitatetem from LNITED

and LILYRIC three tines a week. His sister's husband

developed end printed the file into del0 contact print strips.

The master plan

tuit

Vas fOr LICALIA film to ie, processed inside,ISD nan from 1957 to 1959

→ resigned) could not handle the volume and as

the

unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside CO (l'ahoney) becane disgusted and took the filn out

for

brother-in-law to process (probatly early 1959). Thus

became

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive staff D nonitoring operation

ISEORET

0000165

14

---

## Page 3

14-00000

--3=

was run out of another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

LIUST, I, ete). This was ha:dled by Glen WIDDEN (outside ISD officar) ana

K'ahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This opsration vas also separate

from LICALIA. The two houses in between were rented to unsistecting

tenants

c. Mobile surveillance ves developed by Anderson and later placed

• under liahoney and Joseph Sancho. This team consisted of z half

dozen or so agents who used three to for late model cars and a

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio ([rom LIVITED BASE)

Soviet

when someone of interest left the/Embassy gate and stay with then

until they made their meetings.. These agents knew about the LNITED

SASE because they had LLITED photos for identification purposes.

This worked fairly well until about the niddle of 1958

(check date)

when one of the surveillance egents got too

terget and

was arrested by the Mexican transit

Mexican Secret Service.

Warned over to the

the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorne

the agent: had identified Sancho (who wes

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside

phone number of Mahoney (who vas subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFFAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed but vere giren

Frank

new crypts. /Estencona ard

replaced Andersón in handling

the

phone taps. Puckett replaced Mahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAF) and the photo bases through

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a

(originally)

intarcept handled by Charlie Anderson III,

FRESNE

0000166

15

---

## Page 4

14-00000

His case officers

Alonso Spera,

vere later/Puckett, Rovert Foldann, and Alan White.

2.

of

was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

at that time.

with which ve dealt was & hip pocket group

established contact with one of them qe)

(later LIFIRE group) in about 1950 or 51. He geve them some

training (a group of about five surveillance types)

the files

were poorly organized and often inaccurate..

How and

then

some useful

infornation was developed but it could not be

ded upots.

Was

replaced by

Nahoney, Thoma$

Hazlitt, ard Robert

Feldma

i The Ether)

During 1958,

"Scott met socially sone of the/chronies of the

During this period, the U.S.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight cormunisn". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal

This

project (LIZWOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.

(LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, and greedy. His

son {(LIE:VOY-2) vas a masterpiece of deceit and corruption. LIELEGAT also

manipulated control over the principal agent of LIBIGHT

The

first case officer was -Alfonso Spera inside with

(retired) outside

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty telenhone lines would connect as vell es a transcription room

• 0000167

16

---

## Page 5

14-00000

staffed

denand

Initially the station tried to met every

Both

and John hed larguage difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the stetion

equipment at enornous costs, and neglecting their part of the bargain in the?

(production

Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady who found hinself in the same pincer novement of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady

LIENOY-2.

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revamped.

and John returned

to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who has put inside the listening post to naintain

Brady was reassigned to other duties rending a tre

the equipnent./ Scott took over the project as case officen

with LTELEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing wi

routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up transget

rapes. Goodpesture hed no

excep

Soott was 111 or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made

by

This was about late 1961.•

3.. "y menory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Fabassy but. I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a makeshift arrangement of volunteers

through most of 1960 and 6l with Ton Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their acti-ities and recruitirg agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

4. Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in lexico during

the period

prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Cormission. To deternine who was there and what they were doing I

have gro:ped persons torether chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the

covering fron 1950 to 1969 so that stretire names pop up, one can tell what

period they were in Mexico and

their assignments at the time.

•SECRET

•- 0000168

17

---

## Page 6

14-00000

- 4

, SECRCT

8/50-6/69

COS

Winston ". Scott (deceased)

DCOS

7/56 - 7/58 Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/62

/(retired)

6/63 - 9/65

Alan White (retired) -

10/65 - 1969 Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico) :

COVERT ACTION

(Prior to 1954)

Howard Funt (retired)

(12/54>- 7/53

Williard Hill (resigned)

72/55 - 9/61

Stannard Short (retired)

Chief

9/61

- 3/64

David Phillips C/ (retired) ~

8/62 - 9/64

Asst

2/64 - 6/65

Janes Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 17/66

Herold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967

Stanley Watson C/(retired)

66 - 68

68 - 71.

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chief

2/60 - 4/62

4/63 - 4/65

Bob Shaw Chief

9/63 - 7/65

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Hackay

(re

8/68 - 6/65

David Phillie

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccold

10/65 - 12/67

PROMBITED

SOVIET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Ivon (refred)

9/59- 8/65

Chief-

9/59 - 8/65

5/64 - 7/66

Willian Bright

4/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65-4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TRANSCRIETPS

6/56 - 8/53

Norris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63

George Misko

6/63 - 70

Boris Terasoif (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

(retired ?)

Outside CO

Leaner.

0000169

18

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SUPPORT ASSETS

phono taps

29493 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

34/55 - 4/60

Asst

4/56 - 1/62

Frank Estancona Chiof

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan on.

9/64 - 12/67 Itichael Farmer

{49-71, Outside CO

David WILSTED (ps)

retired in Mexico

6/59 - 4/64

7/59 - 6/62

photo Cubans

Robert Zambernardi

(resigned Mexico)

ISD (retired)

leave in

photo Soviets

3/544-4/59

Harry T. Mahoney

56 - 68

Agent

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8/64 A. Goodpasture (alternate CO -

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63

Louis D. Puckett (retired)

6/63 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

Robert

65 -

66

William Bright

2813

ACTION PRUIT

Cubama. Ojel repasting.

Treat.

phone taps

1959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959 - 1960

(outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

John

(Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961

John Brady (retired)

1962 - 1968 A. Goodpasture

1961 - 1971

Charles Flick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired) -

survelllance

Erior 1954

P (retired)

3/54 - 4159

Harry Nichoney (retired)

1159 - 1961

Thonas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldmann

ISD Gutside unit

1/53 - 12/63

Glen Widden (rotired)

1159-4/54

Joseph. i:, Resigno (os) Unit blown and closed down

0000170

14

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Absut nid 1962 (check date) Linvoy

aSked

{for the telephone nunbers of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

With this forewarnings LIFEAT

Las

However

as I recall,

connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Gzech,

2 Polish, and I fugoslav Ilne. The basekouse listenirg post had a live

monitor tho made short summaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which was received each day around 8 a.. (passed by Flick to Goodcasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.1.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and passed to the

stetion in the same way, however,

there was usually & time lag of a day or so.: Those transcripts which had

Russien or another languege besides Spanish or English went out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations

reel was

typed.

These reels were taken to another locati

and typed. In the case of the Russian

about a week behind the date

were translated

Boris Tarasoff usually ran

ersation because of the volume of

Russian conversations a

nenbers of the Soviet Erbassy. During this

period: (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section

or they may

have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to

Sto take to Boris.

hardled all of the processig of Soviet transcripts. ly job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned that the man calling hinself Oswald was

probably an Avierican. However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were cicked up

three times a week but the ones picked up were usually

for dates a few days previously because the

processed the film on a

night time basis. Photographs were made usually until one roll was used but

later ve lot it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators, cleared the canera each day whether there was angrilinays a full

roll of filn exposed. Instructions were to cover office hours, photograch each

0000171

20

---

## Page 9

14-00000

=4-

195004

new Soviet and family, all foreigners and foreign licenee plates. Funan

error did occur but generally the agents vere conscientious.

The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipient (a rulse ca:era) but it

frequently develored nechanical difficulties.

Bob Zambarnerdi and

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorne l'ackay screeted

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came to our attention from the

Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken to Boris for a translation because

the caller was trying to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to

compare the photographs with the typed transcript. There were no copies of

transcripts every made in languages other than Spenish or

glish because Win

Scott could reed only those two languages ard ke

reened the

transcripts for operational leads he vant

REPRODUCTION

0000172

21

---

## Page 10

14-00000

• ...

HONED

REPRODUCTION

(4) Jor Ent gate

(- LIMITED

2. LILYRIC

3. LICALLA

Plato Bases.

0000173

22

---

## Page 11

14-00000

1070

TUESDAY 1th OCTOBER 1963

Coverage: 900 to 1900

10g FiJa 144

20 Lax

Weather 1/100

Camera Setting 3.5-2.5°

1 1251 2URY platican con KAz en el jardin

84868444848688586894888s68q8485s28%86898%858886598539888868828688683332%

WEDNESDAX 2 OCTOBER 1963

Coverage: 900 to 1900

:3 11139 ANOV

out UMN a Norte por Tacubaya Despide DENen Chev

375

4 0 00 D9.00 80 D0 80.SP D9 D9 D0 10 89

# #*

+00#8.10

5 1150 U M M

'out a Norte por lacubaya en Ford37 verde (entr51141)

71033 DF

.6 1205 LEON

8 1216 U MM

•in': 2URY de Oriente por Chicontepec de Falcon

88 88 88 80 18.191

de Sur por Tacubaya de

ota Chev(sal181219).

•* 0 %

5213? DF

9

1216 VAM

10

1

1222 U A M

12

in de Sur por Tac

DERI

out a Norte

por Tacubaya

no si no op

" " " 8"«

6i Mesulin

2.0ch67

14 1248 VAZQUEZ out a Norte-por Tacubaya

16 1259 TIPO

THURSDAY 3 Ocdober 1963

171200 UM W

1S 1204 U M W

19 "*"•

20 1213 UN M

21 1222 U M M

out a Norte por Tacubaya de Chev (entró 1218)

Doverage: 900 to 1900

in de Norte por Tacubaya

.out a Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi

D 167

8882 DF

# 17

in

de Sur por Tacubaya

out a Sur por Tacubaya

0000174

7EX-4056

07/6

SEGRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

27 September 1963, Soviet Enbassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery

the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET: According to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)

Consulate in Washington, he wants' to go to the USSR to stay

a long time with his wife who is Russian, but also the

answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.

That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but

without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request

and even then, they could not issue the visa herer in Mexico

City) without asking Washington.

Yet accordingl

this man

(the American),

showed him a letter in inch he

American) is a member of an organization

favor of Cuba

and said that the Cubans could note

hut the visa without

the Russian visa and now the Seet

doesn't know what to do

with him, because he has

Washington..

DURAN:

..with them also, be

he problem with him (the American)

is that he doesn

ariyone in Cuba and in that case it

is very diffi

give him a visa, because he was

thinking of

essing his visa, because he knew it was

going to take

long time waiting for the Russian visa in

Cuba, and then go on to the USSR.

SOVIET:

..that the thing is that if his (the American) wife were

now in Washington (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the USSk to retum to her country, (if)

she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having

this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this

permission, for example, here or in any other place (he) can

DURAN:

receive it, but right now they do not have them.

..certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a lette

because they do not know if the visa will be approved

SOVIET:

DURAN:

SOVIET:

They can only give the visa according to instructions.

Then that is what she will put on his application.

Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because

I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much.

0000175

SEGRET

JFK#056

COpy 20F1

---

## Page 13

14-00000

27 September 1963, Sovict Embassy Consulatc 15-60-55

Item 74, page 2

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy

Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul.

He is told that

the Consul is not there.

The unidentified man asked what is needed

to get visas to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the

Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial

America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the

telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.

ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to

know what day the boat "KALONIA"' will arrive in Odessa, that the

Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manifest.

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN RONAN are shipping, en

resentatives

a call was made to the

Mexican telephone directory (which turned out to be the Military Attache) •

They got the phone number for the consulate

making a call to the Consulate and Led

andathe address.

that it would not be open

until 1130 hours, ALATRISTE went,

daress to get the needed

information.)

• Item 395, pages 7 and 8

Just after 1600 hours,

Soviet Consulate received a call from the

Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen

who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the

USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy

because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets

approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything

more, advising the (Department of) Innigration in Cuba.

She wants

to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know

either with what person and who told him that certainly there would

be no problem. The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute.

After a

short wait DURAN explains the same thing to another Soviet. This

Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and

someone will return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone

number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing,

she has moved and

has not advised them of a change of address so will not receive their

Bulletin and can give it to them now.

The Soviet asks her to call

KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache.

DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA

whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

0000176

2

---

