# 104-10179-10142a

## Page 1

104-10179-10142

1. 50

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

..

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

• DIREcTOR

: 204 .

PANAMA CITY

ООР, 100Р, C/ C1, C/51 2, C/TE 6, G/SAS 5, 19

8809E+22112Z

GER CARA CITE PACY 2319

22 Feb 64 iN21715

RET& DIR - 82375

DO THE PUENTE BLAYCO BROTHERS HAVE BEEN UNDEO SOME SUSPICION

SINCE THEIR ARRIVAL IN PACY FOLLOVING THEIR DELEASE FROM CHAON PRISO:

AS RESULT INTERUENTION THELMA XINS, PAVAMA: N EATERISI ASSIMONE

NOTIAM. [EYFRACE-2, (LIAISOY)) HAS SALS THAT THEY SHOULD NOT BE

TRUSTED AND LABLED THEM OPPORTUNISTS SAYING THE: CLAIM SEAN VIA.

OR CUBAN CITIZENSHIP DEPENDINS UNICH MOST AOVANTAJSOUS AT MONSIT.

HYANTEASE-I SUSPICIOUS OF THE BROTHERS AND MIP-SBAT REPORTED MS

BELIEVED THEY CASTRO ASENIS.

ZO PART OF SUSPICION JOSE AND ROPERIO SIDOUBTEDLY RESUL!

BROTHER, JORGE, STILi IN CUBA, OF SPECIAL INTEREST 8S FACT THAT

IN NOVEMBER 1965, ACCORDISS 'O OUTEST ISFORMANT, THELMA KING AJEMOILE

CALL JORDE VIA LONS DISTANGE QUI VAS UNABLE TO LOCATE HIM. PIRPOSE

O THE CALL ACCORDINS IVFORMANT, VAS TO INFORM JORGE THAi SMS VAS

SECRET

REPROOUGTIORI DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DINCE IS PROHMIRO

Copy Na

=....

...

install

---

## Page 2

104-10179-10142

CLASTIRED MESSADE

SECRET

PLANMINT TO THAVEL COMMUNIST CHINA AS EYE YANTED JORDE JO RELAY

THE INFORTATIOY TO FAU CONIL.

SO CONIL IS PROBABLY GILBERTO COVELL ASLESIAS, FORMER CURAN

CONSUL IN PANAMA UNO VAS REQUIRED LEAVE COUNTRY 196I FOR MEDDLINO

INTERNAL AFFAIRS, CONILL BELLEVED SUSSEOUENTLY ASSIGNED PEKING

AND ATTEMPTINO SET OFFICIAL INDITATION FOR KINU VISIT COMTINIST

CHINA.

SECRET

---

