# 104-10048-10123

## Page 1

1104-1048-10123

MOTET.

11. June 1976

MEMORANDIM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

220

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

• Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING

S the action orricer for a cable from

contacted the writer, advised that h

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JMVAVE

to the below-mentioned

cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report. coming in

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

8, dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached. In substance, the

cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source,l

provided

a written report, and a detailed briefing,

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried

out on 15 September

one. Of the major conspirators.

'Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala

in August 1975 as a result

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

lovement was involved with ZIMERI

vas involved with LiMeRt in the assassination plot

and ZINERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. .: The

assisted ZIMERI In acquiring arms,

an in thin chich

vere flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Miami and. New Orleans.

EZ• IMPDET

CL BY 063994

D 02021

---

## Page 2

13-00000

also included

information \the Chief of Station) had received

,.on 8 June.

Isaid that he

providing information on ZIMERI to the

guarenalan government for the past six months or

re claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans

feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for

information

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b.

In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him

to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States

Guatemala?

for possible use

in

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms,

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

alleged employment,

mployment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is apparent

is identical with the subject of.'Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

сотралу,

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record)

Miami, Florida.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JNWAVE.

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's

HENMING

had claine Agency affiliation when in fact there

has beer

none.

The nost recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the DIug

Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459) ,

aka:

FIER& FIORINI, Of Watergate notoriety who also has a

long-time record of

falsely

claiming Agency affiliation.

In

the late 1950's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

Claiming jisillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

• Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Comnunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMING.

9.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan

government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENMING, you are referred to attachnents to instant

memorandun,

to WIE:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, JT.;

and an extract trom a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F. kennedy

Is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY®

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

HALL.

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON

alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

GARRISON

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SEBRET

---

