# 104-10107-10037

## Page 1

104-10107-10037 UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TO: (Oficer designation,

room number, and

building)

1.

INTY" "AL

ILY

CONFINY

IAL

KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

'SECRET

OGC Subject: HERLIHY, Lt. Col. William

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE SNEE

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Me kyle .

3E48

5.

6.

7.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORA

3-6

Зів тро весь

I Chech with RI

also sevealed no

record. It'is our

position that the

letter mentioned en

para 2 should le

sent rather tran an

Okay for It releas

Offee Serent enail

Grea

ATTN.

IDOT

The reached ow 11204

60 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

WUT ULRIAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

UNITED STATES ARMY PERSONNEL SECURITY GROUP

FORT HOLABIRD. MARYLAND 21219

DCT 2 9 1969

USAPSG

MEMORANDUM FOR: OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA

ATTENTION: Mr. James Ludlum

SUBJECT: HERLIHY, William Joseph - LTC - SSAN:/

DPOB:

1. Proceedings are currently underway to eliminate SUBJECT from the

U. S. Army on grounds of unsuitability under the provisions of AR

635-105.

To substantiate a portion of the case against SUBJECT it

may become necessary to show that during 1967 and 1968 HE was not

in the employ of your agency in any manner.

In this connection

request you advise USAPSG if your agency objects to the release

- June 196o, to SUbJECt, HIS defense counsel, and the members of

that the report contains classified defense information.

2. Should your agency object to release of the particular information

included in the cited report, a letter from your agency stating that

SUBJECT was not in your employ, in any manner, while assigned to

Supreme Headquarters, Allied Powers Europe, would be equally sufficient.

3. For your information, the board hearing at which this information is

desired to be used will be closed to the public and the press.

1 Incl

as

COL

Chief, United States Army

Personnel Security Group

TO BE REGRADED 1TS.

DILET SEPARATED

FROM CLASBITUSS COURECPOUDBSCE OR MATERIAT

Inis docuoni will thor be marked:

FOR CEFICIAL USE ONLY

CONTIENTIAL

Pes

---

## Page 3

14-00000

LUND NAT

AGENT REPORT

(SR 380-320-10)

2- NAME OF SUBNECT OR THILE OF INCIDENT

1F, 064739

William Joseph

DPOB: 13 August 1929, Pittsburgh, Pa.

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

So CONTROL STOOL OR ENE MURR

NO (LOCAL AGENCY) On 20 June 1900, the Chief of Station,

central Intelligence Agency (CIA),

stated that

William Joseph HERLIHY was known to him and that HERLIHY was not

an employee of the CIA and further that SUBJECT was not involved

in any type of clandestine or covert mission or operation for the

Source stated that HERLIHY had not been associated with the

olA at any time during His assignment at supreme Headquarter.

vious association that HERLIHY may have had with CIA.

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRZD, HOT

RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR

INTERVALS; NOT AUTONATICALLY

DECLASSIFIED. DOD DIR 5200.10

CONFIDENTIAL

SO TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

"IT TAM E. BREESE, JR., 650th MI Det

FORM

DA 1 APR 32 341

0 - 4651

---

