# 104-10096-10030

## Page 1

104-10096-10030

SECRET

25 MAR IT!

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Agency Contact with the Immigration and

Naturalization Service on Behalf of Mr.

Johnny Roselli

1.

Reference is made to a request forwarded to the

Office of Security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C.

Richards, Office of the Inspector General.

The Subject

of inquiry is based on a request for information, made on

13 March 1974, by Mr. Terry Lenzner, Assistant Majority

Chief Counsel,

Senate Select Committee on Presidential

Campaign Activities, to Mr. Lyle L. Miller, Deputy Legis-

•lative Counsel. Mr. Lenzner cited

a 14 May 1962, Agency

memorandum which refers to contact

between MI. Lawrence

Houston, then General Counsel, and the then Attorney

General, Mr. Robert Kennedy, with the intention of "quashing

of a Grand Jury organized crime indictment against Sam

Gianconni (sic) (Salvatore Giancana)."

Mr. Lenzner is under

stood to believe this reported contact and

• the circunstances

surrounding the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Giancana

during President John F. Kennedy's Administration

were being

surfaced in 1971 as part of an effort to obtain blackmail-

type information on certain principals in the Denocratic

Party. Mr. Lenzner specifically requested information on

Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating

to this matter.

relating

The files and records of all individuals identified

with the planned utilization of Mr. Glancana were searched.

These individuals included Mr. Robert A. Maheu, who arranged

contact With Mr. Giancana through Nt. Johnny Roselli; Mr.

Richard Cain, recently deceased, who was identified in the

as knowledgeable of Agency association with. Mr. Giancana;

and Mr. William King Harvey, retired Staff employee, who

acted as principal contact with Mr. Roselli during the

late 1960's and up until Mr. Roselli's incarceration.

EZ IMPDET.

CL BY 061142

SECPE

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Additionally, the files of other individuals associated with

Mr. Robert A. Mahou were also searched. These includsd, rir.

Peter R. Maheu, Mr. John Meier, and

currently an Agency contract enployee, who was utilized

during 1963 and 1000 in

-nder a cormorcial cove

arrangement provided by the

3.

Memoranda were located in the file of Mr. Johnny

Roselli which sumarize contact on 26 February 1971

initiated by this Agency with the Coumissioner, Inmigratioi

and Maturalization Service,

Department of Justice, Mr. Raymon

Farrell. The purpose of this effort was to intercede with

the Inmigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr.

Roselli in the action being initiated for deportation.

was determined that

this Agoncy would be kept inforned of the

progress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an effort to

forestall public disclosure of his association with the United

States Government.

The Attorney General at the time of these

contacts with the Immigration and Naturalization Service was

Mr. John N. Mitchell.

4.

On 21 March 1974, this matter was discussed with Mr.

John C. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mr. Lyle L.

Miller, Deputy Legislative Counsel; and Stanton F. Ense,

Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,

Office of Security.

The Office of Security file on Mr. Johnny

Roselli was made available to Messrs. Richards and Miller,

including the memoranda cited in paragraphs I and 3 above.

Miller indicated that he planned

to await a follow-up call

from Mr. Lenzner on this Subject.

Stanton F. Ense

Deputy Director of Security

Personnel

Security and Investigations

---

