# 104-10310-10089

## Page 1

104-10310-10089

UNcLASSIFIED

•TERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

COI." DENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Richard A. Fuller

28-1415 Assistant to the SA/DDO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

RECEIVED

". C/CI Staff alco

LA DiN

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

EXTENSION NO

DATE

DATE

9018

ONCERS

FORWARDED

20 February 1976

to whom.

O to 1 FOR ACTION:

Cl Staff Paragraph 3 only

SA/DDO har uphia t

Para. 4.

File: sse/LA

SA/DDO

fuller

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

60 HOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DATE

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

SA/DIO

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

REMARKS:

SA/UNO

LUFEB76

14

112

FROM:

ROOM NO.

FORM

THES 59•241

BUILDING

FORM 36-

WINCH BA FORE USED

EXTENSION

(47)

---

## Page 3

13-00000

...and

Review Staff:

19 February 1976

76-0200/b

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: SSC Contact

Jim Johnston and Dan Dwyer of the SSC staff raised

the following questions during the course of a discussion

with the Review Staff on 19 February 1976.

1. They are most anxious to know the

identify of the initials G. N. N. which

appear on several AMLASH papers.

They

would like our firm assurance that we are

not able to identify this

person.

They would like to know if John

26

Whitten/is available for a possible Interview.

3.. They reviewed the 201 file on

Gilberto Lopez and ask if there would be any

other files such as Security or a file main-

tained by LA Division or by CI Staff.

They

noted particularly that there is a cable

dated March 1964 which is not included in

the 201 file.

4. They would still like to have this

file sent to them and would like a statement

in writing as to why we object.

They note that the only photograph

shows

him

wearing sunglasses and ask if there

is a better likeness available.

6.

They ask for a identification of

LITEMPO.

They request a letter in writing

about the present unavailability of the

What Elder

Walter Elder

Review Staff

3,3.

CC - SA/DDO

290.1006452.'5

....i...

Dare legined is tradies

---

