# 104-10173-10073

## Page 1

104-10173-10073

..

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

191 USC2107 Note) 'n

NW 53295 6415/17

:

TURNTO

Background Use Only

Do No

naproduce

dair $ 1862

Apr1l li, 1901

• DỌC. MICRO. SER.

istor exchanging tie corventional anall talk, I ncled about the

siss, Has told that the question was a complicuted one ud not ac

easily colved. lated, when I thought of going? Anawered, by the end

of this scmester, but not later than the last part of the sumner. The

reply mus that the time nas much too short and that these matters can

not be decided in such a short apace of time, furthormore, he thought

it would be useless for me to apply now since I could only wait until

the end of July for an answor. Alter talking a little further I said

that it vas really not so important that I should stay with my uncle

for more than tro reeks or at most one month, the rain thing that

interests me is stuajing in the Soviet Union. Has told that presently

1t is only open to students from the bust, Middle East and Asia, besides,

of course, the official exchange progran. I asked how long he thought

an enswer would take 1f I applied. His r'eply was, "I can not really say

but I think 1t rould be hoyeless to apply". I then made mention of the

fact that I was refused a scholarship in the U.s. and would greatly

appreciate it If I could get some definite incornation about the

possibility of studying in the Soviet Union, since my main interest yas

tho fussinn language and other Russian and Soviet

subjects. He again said

that he thought it would be hopeless if I applied. As he was accoupanying

no to the door I asked hin 1i he could give me any advice on,, what I

can do now as far as a visa or information about studying in the USSR

is concerned. His ansiver was that he could not tell me anything, and then

nuch to ry gurprise corented that, "роварид криачков не хорошо отзидался

o Bac. " I answered that I was sorry nbout the misunderstanding between r..

triichkor and ayself and that he ras probably disappointed in someching or

order thas happened botruen us. ¿pon thas I lest.

EDCA I/33

cai

2119641.

90.

r.....,.

---

