# 104-10014-10064

## Page 1

1104-10014-100641

SECRET

des ses sess dese desse so.

OPERATOR

BADGE:

OFFICE

PHONE:

ie

ROOM

PRINTER: T019

DATE

TIME

PAGE

: 14 SEP 93

15:24

: 001

ie

i REQUESTER:

HM877

DSN:

21162

DOC DATE: 20 NOV 91

issessie here

missessinissinsiss

4HF#:

COMET

isiddlss5566646655548556664÷%

/ /

SECRET

ATE: 008-20558/10-3 (353) INFO: C/ORNS, DOMOS, LIMITO.

91 6320813

ASR

PAGE 00I

TOR: 2014552 NOV

91

FRP:

STAFF

OOPO,

SEDORECORO,

IN 6320813

21162

SECRET

201454Z NOV 91 STAFF

CITE

21162

TO:

INFO DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT SE/USSR/IO INFO SEARR

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: KGB OFFICIAL NIKONOV

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE.

2. DURING THE WEEK OF 3-9 NOVEMBER 1991,

SEVERAL DISCUSSIONS

MOSCOW WITH "SLAVA"

DIRECTOR ( (BAKATIN)) .

SIRECTOR LEAKAT NS A LONGTIME CRIME AS NO КОКО NEE

THAS KNOWN NIKONOV WELL

SINCE 1976. HE CURRENTLY 151

PARA 7 FOR BIO ON

JUNTIL 22 DECEMBER 199 HAS

SEE

BEFRIENDED

WHO WAS DINNER GUEST ATI

HOME ON

IO NOVEMBER AND PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INFO ON NIKONOV

AND HIS NEW KGB JOB.

MINISTER VYACHESLAV MOLOTOV.

NIKONOV IS THE GRANDSON OF FORMER SOVIET FOREIGN

NIKONOV WAS REGARDED AS EXTREMELY TNTELLIGENT AND

CAPABLE BUT GAVE THE IMPRESSION THAT HE WAS AN IDEOLOGICAL

BELIEVED THAT HE WAS LIKELY TO BE A

RISING STAR TN THE SOVTET SYSTEM AND RECOMMENDED

HIM FOR AN

IREX-SPONSORED VISIT TO THE U.S.

AS EXPECTED,

NIKONOV'S

AND RHETORIC MODERATED VERY VISIBLY AFTER HIS FIRST DIRECT

EXPOSURE TO ?HE U.S.

HE HAS HAD AT LEAST ONE

IREX-SPONSORED TRIP TO THE U.S.

ADDITIONAL

AND HAS SPENT PERIODS OF TIME

AS A PERSONAL GUEST AT THE HOME OF

RESULT ON BONOG

NIKONOV CAME TO WORK IN HIS POSITION AT THE KGB AS A

A CLOSE FRIEND OF BAKATIN.

1991 COUP ATTEMPT NIKONOV SAID THAT HE REFUSED TO FOLLOW HIS

BOSS'S ORDER TO ACT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE DECLARED STATE OF

HE WAS DISMISSEO BY HIS BOSS (NFI) FROM THIS

POSITION AND CALLEO BAKATIN TO SEEK ADVICE.

BAKATIN SAID HE

COUP AND WOULD LOOK OUT FOR NIKONOV

ORDER WAS RESTORED.

SOON AFTER THE COUP BAKATIN CALLED

ASK THAT HE ASSIST

WITH RESTRUCTURING THE KGB.

AFTER IT WAS

AGREEO THAT NIKONOV COULD DECLINE TO ACCEPT TWO-STAR MILITARY

KGB RANK AND WORK IN THE JOB FOR AN EQUIVALENT CIVILIAN

COMPENSATION PACKAGE.

HE CAME TO

THE KGB AS BAKATIN'S

NIKONOV SAID HIS FRIENDS WERE DELIGHTED THAT HE HAD DECLINED

THE KGB COMMISSION.

NIKONOV'S FIRST ASSIGNMENT FROM BAKATIN WAS MAKING

ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE

RELATIONSHIP WHICH HAS NOW

COME INTO BEING. IN PREPARATION FOR ONE POSSIBLE QUESTION

C<< TEMPORARY WORKING COPY • DESTROY AFTER USE SO»

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

OPERATOR

OFFICE

ROOM

REQUESTER:

AM877

21162

We do de sede sde de done de decade do do de de de de de de de de de de de de de de de de de

&**************************

BADGE:

DATE

: 14 SEP 93

PHONE:

TIME

PRINTER: 7019

PAGE

15:24

002

DOC DATE:

20 NOVel

COMET

MiMMi did i i did dad d i do i da de d peda do de do do dese de so de de de

WHICH MIGHT BE RAISED,

NIKONOV PERSONALLY REV'EWED YSS FILES TO

DETERMINE

REVIEWED •IVE THICK VOLUMES OF FILES

CONFIDENT THAT

ESWALD WAS AT NO TIME AN AGENT CONTROLLEO BY THE

KG3 .

FROM THE GESCRIPTION OF

IN THE FILES HE DOUBTEO

THAT ANYONE COULD

BUT NOTED THAT THE KBG

WATCHEO HIM CLOSELY

CONSTANTLY WHILE HE WAS IN

HE COMMENTED THAT

STORMY RELATIONSHIP WITH

SOVIET

THAT

WIFE,

THE FILE ALSO REFLECTES

OSWA:D WAS A POCR SHOT WHEN HE

TRIED TARGET

USSR.

6. IN PREPARATION FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF

PERSONALLY PERFORMED AN

FOR BAKATIN INTO THE FATE

i (WALLENBERG)) .

THE RENTS STELE PRESSURE

SIDE TO HAVE A DEFINITIVE ANSWER ON

MATTER BECAUSE OF THE CONTINUING IMPORTANCE OF THE WALLENBERG

NIKONOV WAS AMAZEO TO FIND OUT THAT THE KG3

•BEEN ABLE TO PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISH WHETHER WALLENBERS HAD

AND UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES.

HE WAS ABLE TO FIND PARTIAL

EVIDENCE FROM FOURTEEN DIFFERENT

BE. IEVES, BUT FOUND NO CONCLUSIVE

THAT WALLENBERG WAS

EXECUTEO LATE IN 1947.

THERES WERE IN CATIONS THAT HERE NGERS

SUSPECTEO OF HAVING CONTACTS WITH OTHERS WHO WERE ACCUSEC

DIPLOMATIC IDENTITY DOCUMENTS TO OTHERS

BEYOND JEWS SAVED FROM THE HOLOCAUST.

AMONG THESE WERE

IAR CRIMINALS WHO WERE ALLOWED TO ESCAPE

THERE WAS NO PROOF

IF WALLENBERG'S GUILT IN ANY OF THESE CHARGES.

WHO IS NIKONOV'S

FRIEND IS:

NAME:

008:

CIT:

6. 1920

USA

OCC:

RETIRED

LOC:

OTHER:

RESIDES NEARI

THERE ARE NO BASE TRACES ON

_ HE SERVED IN THE

MILITARY AND IS VERY WELL DISPOSED TOWAROS THE U.S.

GOVERNMENT.

FILE:

END OF MESSAGE

it 5 di on on the 4-82.

END

OF

DOCUMENT

EE & TEMPORARY WORKING COPY - DESTROY AFTER USE D>>

---

