# 104-10167-10378

## Page 1

104-10167-10378

it mign min case cincinina

7 July 1961

MEHRAJDOM FOR TEE RECORD

SUBBCT: Contact with Tony Varona

1. The undersigned vas advised by wa/f/Securfty on the

morning of T July that Tony Varone had called asting to speak

with Peak taper.

Varora 1s 11 Hashington viere de 19 stay-

Ing st the Roosereit Botel, Dicatur 2-0800, room 707. He vill

remain in Washligton for three or four days.

telephone at about 16:15. The undersigned gave bis nare as

Rayaoed S. Clart - who 18 a friend of Frey: PErDER-edd indicated

that Verona nigit teli the undersigned the seme things he vould

tell Frank BIDEs.

3. Verona brought up the following four points:

Bo

le inquires as to the siate ci recruiting and as

to what vas teiding place in connection with the Cuban

situation, presumably frou a military point of tier.

D. He said that he vished to get in touch with General

Feylor, vierezon the undersigned toid bia that the metinod

at doing that vould be through Mr. Goodwin.

c. le referred to e rumported citer by the United

States to take care of himself

,and his fandly vaile he vas

in the United States and Lat he had sot received payment,.

the undersigned understood, for in last month.

d. In general, he wondered whether the U.S. was going

to do anything about Cuba or not, and he said that he had

talked with Goodrin and that nothing had been resolved.

4. With the exception of answering as to the means of getting

In touch with Geseral Taylor, the undersigned stated that he knew

very iittle about the natters which varous brought up, but that he

vould pass on the information to others.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

2

The undersigned got in touch with Varons only after having

the go ahead sign fron frow CiD and discussion the matter with

DC/VH/4, CS2/4/Security, Martea Tharpe and Frank ERADER.

12

STORET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. 'go

---

