# 104-10227-10087

## Page 1

104-10227-10087

26 March 1961

MEMOFANDUN FOR TITE RECORD

SUnTACT! Startla of tie Rovolutionary Counc1)

Around nor of 24 March 1901 Mr: CarT advinol us telephonicaily that

he he been lu touch with Miro Cardonn.

Miro Intonio to appolat Varons,

Movia, Carrillo, Artino and Ray (or Pasoo) to tho Ccuncil.

2. Miro untod to bo alvined thother Vorone ani Havia vould be acceptable

to positions so Secrotories of Dafense and Stato (Miro did aut fool atrongly

as to unich of tho tuo got which poaition). The other above muntioned in

dividuals vould comporarily not a miniotore vithout portiollo.

Even the

appointmente to tho positime of state and Dofenao would not now do announced.

Cart vanted to linow 11 the foregoin me alright with us.

3. Ino quostion of the boot sulted condianto for the pooltion of Socrotery

of Defenso vue discussel by Menara.

Jnnd Drollar subsequant to dr Carr'a

telephono call. It happenal that CAlD and AC/i/l voro at that anent In

tho office of tho Doi and thus the problo ma referred to that levol for the

B. H5. Carr anculd try to persuado Niro to pive Artina the portrollo

of betanso Secretary; Cari could five da seasons for cur foelinio Artisa's

popularty, bia youts, his ability and readinana to yo into Cuba together

vith the oscult force.

•8. I Airo does not vunt Artine assigned to this peoltion, Carr should

Inform Miro that our nest perforence vauld be Carlos Havia, our reasons aro

that Varono might raive mony probloms in view of his vell-known position

concertas atilot cuion control of troops at thia particular time.

bhacover devolope during this forthcunia: beeting vith Miro, ur.

Carr should at all timo do most flexible and not, derand anything.

nt. Carr vas alno airloed to tell Miro that wa voud profer only the man elvon

I howevar either Horia or Varone voro sivan the portfollo,

one ahould be accompaniod by Artima for roadons already statad above.

GITARD DROLLER

1 Book II

CIRC Organisation

1 RC MiLItary

1 201 files

1 HI1/4/PA ChIODO

---

