# 104-10183-10144

## Page 1

104-10183-10144

27

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

АЛаНіР

-ROUTINC

FROM

ACTION

NO

15-4

WH/SA 8

DCI, D/DCI,EX OIR, DOP, ADDPA SOD 4

CI/OPS, Ci/SC 2. FL,

•VR, FILE.

AO/CT 2, AD/NE:

SECRET 8314147

DIR INFO WAVE CITE

Zony

7388

NOV 4: 03822, 64

IN 16442

INTEL

SUPDATA:

•FILED:

8314142

•22

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREICT DISSES 979-14485: COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBUECT: STATEMENTS SY CUSAN AIGISSIDOR TO FRANCE CONCERNING POSSIBLE

CUBAN CONCESSICNS TO U.S. FOR IMPROVED RELATIONS

I NOVEMBER 1954

PADA:

SOURCE:

FRANCE, PARIS ( 2 NOVORSE- I9UI)

CUBAN BUSINESSIAAN IN EXILE AND TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY AND

HAS GOOD ACCÉSS TO CUDI: EIFLONATIC INSTALLATIONS FROM

CARRILLO.

SOURCE'S REPORTING HAS DEIN LIMITED.

I COMMENT:

NO GIESEMIAAF SO DE THE ATTACHIN

TO POPTION E! :. " iN. H9 CEON

RELLASING I WO

TOCS

ROUTiNI

BASIO CA

LIASON

6854.

RIPRODUETION BY OIMIR TIAN IS:CAN DADE IS PRONNTIO..

Corey t

---

## Page 2

(When rital 80)

SECRET

COUNTEE

DATE OP

INFO

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

Tocs

DISTIL

pastin

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL:

REP

FIELD REPORT NO:

FI. 16442

1. ANTONIO CARRILLO CARRERAS, CUSAN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE, 1S

INTERESTED IN PURSUING POSSIBILITIES FOR IMPROVING CUBAN-U.S. RELATIONS.

HE HAS REMARKEO PRIVATELY THAT ONE OF THE CONCESSIONS WHICH CUBA COULO

CONSIDER TO IMFROVE RELATIONS INVOLVES THE GUARANTEED PURCHASE BY THE

•U.S: OF ONE MILLION TONS OF CUBAN SUGAR ANNUALLY. UNDER THOSE CIRCUM-

STANÇES CUSA WOULO BE PREPARED TO APPLY APPROXIMATELY 28 PER CENT OF THE

PROCEEOS TO INDEMNIFY U.S. COMPANIES WHOSE PROPERTY HAS BEEN EXPROPRIATEO

BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT. SIMILARLY, PAN AMERICAN FLIGHTS TO CUBA,

WHICH CARRILLO CLAIMS WERE NOT ENOLO SY CUÑA, COULD BE RESUMED:

MANHILE, SABOTAGE EFFORTS BY, THE U.S., SUCH AS THOSE DIRECTED

SECRET

SAPPINNA DIA ARMYATS MATT All IS SEDA MLA MIX ME UNNA DES CAN ORA ONE 00

---

## Page 3

SECRET

TOCS

AGAINST TRUCKS WHICH RECENTLY REACHLO CUBA, MOULO HAVE TO CEASE.

2. FIELD DISSEMS AMBASSADOR BOHLENESTATE

PACA

16442

2

GASSACATION - END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET

---

