# 104-10322-10096

## Page 1

104-10322-10096

Date

ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TC: (Name, office symbol, room number,

building, Agency /Post)

1. SA/DOCI

Initials

: Dato

3.

Action

Approval

As Requested

Circulate

Comment

Coordination

REMARKS

File

For Clearance

For Correction i

For Your Information

Investigate

Justify

Note and Retum

Per Conversation

Prepare Reply

See Me

Signature

DO NOT usa this form as a RECORD of approvals, concumences, disposais,

clearancos, and similar actions

FROM: (Name, ong. symbol, Agency/Post)

Room No,-31dg.

Ale

3041-102

# U.S. G.P.O. 1977-241-530/3090

Phone No.

OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)

rescribed by GS/

PMR (41 CFR) 101-11.201

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Executive begg

79-134

74-0113104

20 March 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussions with G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and

Director, HSCA

1. Messrs. William Sturbitts, DDO/LA; Dale Sumption,

DDO/SE;

Julian Fox, CI Staff; Jack Sullivan, OS; Russ Holmes, and I met with

Mr. Blakey this morning to discuss substantive issues in the final

HSCA Committee Report.

I don't think we made many points although Mr. Blakey

acknowledged our presentation in some instances. It is clear that Mr.

Blakey intends to cite the testimony of former employee Wilcott about

what he did in Japan (we had discussed this previously and achieved

some compromises

from a security point of view, but clearly did not

prevail in obtaining deletions about Wilcott's distribution of funding

operations in Japan; there is no mention of

We also

appeared to have no success in persuading Mr. Blakey to delete a summary

of what the Cubans told the Committee about CIA photographic surveillance

in Mexico City in 1963.

3.

We have already received and commented on two drafts of

sections of the report that have been received after we had been told that

we have seen all the drafts.

yet another on the way. It is hoped that these will affect the Agency but

marginally and that the reviews can be completed without a major effort.

If there are no more than these three last sections, this phase should

be over, so far as CIA is concerned.

4. We discussed with Mr. Blakey whether the Agency should make a

comment on the Nosenko paper.

The paper is a sort of rambling, on-one-hand-

but-on-the-other-hand type of discussion.

It may prove useful

for the

Agency to write a memorandum to the Committee summarizing what it considers

to be the key issues on the subject.

5. Blakey described his production problem.

He will have page

proofs of the report printed at GPO. He states that he has met every

request of ours on security matters and considers the drafts to be

unclassified. They will be handled in that way by GPO. When he receives

CISTRY

• Spec

InT.

TAL

13190

anteenedis

---

## Page 3

13-00000

LONZDENTIAL

• expect to receive the formal submission for Agency approval or

a resentens with the are ready period,.

6. 1, personally, expect my work in the current phase to end

with the comments which we will submit on these last three draft sections

of the report.

I am not sure when my contract expires, but I think that

it must be about the time that the five-day countdown commences.

I would

wish to prepare final comments on the final report for such use as the

Agency may care to make of them.

This should not take long to do so.

Mr. Holmes and I should be through with our work on everything but the

last bit either the end of this week or early next week.

S. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

CC:

DDO

DDA

SA/DDCI

LC

GC

C/SE

C/CI

C/LA

D/OS

Distribution:

Orig - OLC/Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

1 - Russ Holmes

OLC/SDB/ksn

GL. NdSS

GLoNdss?

ONNDENTIAL

---

