# 104-10255-10177

## Page 1

104-10255-10177

..

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

Washington Field Office

?E DEG1964

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

Headquarters

(GARCIA; Ernesto Guzman

#749 651

E-SD/3

1. Please refer to Washington Field Office report dated

16 December 1964.

06

2. The (Joseph Michael SULLIVAN) who is mentioned in

the above report as furnishing the live address, is the brother of

Mr. (John J. SULLIVAN,) the Special Agent in Charge of our New

York Field Office.

03

George P. Loker, or.

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 2

PISORITY

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

INTERIM

(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

WASHINGTON

(FIELD OFFICE)

CASE NO. 749 651

(GARCIA, Ernesto Guzman)

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

10, 11, 14 December 1964

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

REPORT MADE BY

HALL, Fred H.

CHARACTER OF CASE

E-SD/3

DATE

16 December 1964

APPROVED:

I Platinti

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

?: DEC 1964

George P. Loker, Jr.

DISTRIBUTION:

LIDOS - Orig.

HDQS - 1

WFO - 1

TO60 646 USE PREvIOUS

EDITIONS.

PRIORITY

(43)

---

## Page 3

FILE NO. 749 651

DATE 16 December 1964

SYNOPSIS

06

Goseph Michael SULLIVAN, 8985 S. W. 45 th

Credit record clear for

06 (SULLIVAN) and no police record located.

FORM NG 1125

REPORT NO.

(20)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

File #749 651

GENERAL:

At Miami, Florida

06

08

— **

Mr.

* W. 45th Terrace, was contacted

on 10 December 1964 at

nis place of employ

ment, the Virginia Key Sewage Treatment

Plant, hit residence,

City of Niami, Key Biscayne,

and he agreed to the

to be reliable, was imoressed with the need for strict se-

curity in this

matter and for the necessity of promptly re-

by profession, who travels on business.

Mer. (SULLIVAN)

agreed to backstop the

SUBJECT's residence beginning from

September 1904-06

Mr. (SULLIVAN) advised that he was born on 11 July 1918

in Massachusetts; that he served in the U. S. Marines in an

enlisted capacity for over twenty years prior to 1959 and

has been

employed by the City of Miami from 1959 to date.

lis home telephone number 13(221-0375 and the telephone num-

employed, 1s 301-5498.

his home at

68/8985 S.

W. 45th Terrace is a detached single-family dwelling

occupied only

by himself; his wife

Patricians and his two-

month-old son, Michael Francis SULLIVAN,

The records in the Office of the Supervisor of Regis-

tration, 1351N. W: 12th Street, which contain informatior

concerning all registered voters in Dade County and which

records were checked on 11 December 1964, were found to con-

tain

the following data:

06

0б

1)

One Patricia SULLIVAN

nee, CHOMPSON, 8985 S.

45th Terrace, Miami, Florida, registered to

on 23 December 1963.

This person was described

as 28 years of age in 1903, born in New fork state,

a citizen of the United States, a resident of Dade

County since 1949, white race,

female and occupa-

tion - housewife.

CREDIT :

-1-

16/R1

---

## Page 5

td-itoon

• .

File #749 651

At Miami, Florida

The file contained no other information.

POLICE:

At Miami, Florida

The records of the Miami Police Department, the Miami

Municipal Court and of the Dade County Public Safety Depart-

which were checked

contain no record in th

or of his wife, Eatricia names December c, we sullivato

06

FHH/eph

-2-

5/100

---

## Page 6

#7961

ER ORANDUM FOR:

Headquarters

3 PES

Special Agent in Charge

Mashington Field Office

SUBJECT

SD/3

1.

You are requested as Office of Origin to establish

a roxtRor facility in the name of the captioned Subject in

the Miami, Florida area.

The facility is needed to support documentation

In that same and the only possible, but unlikely, inquiry

about the Subject would be made by the U. E. Immigration

and Naturalization Service.

In the event that such an

1nquiry be made,

the householder should state that the Subject

J' he has been residing at the facility since

about September 1964 and that he is a writer who travels and

1s away on business fron time to time. In that connection,

you should arrange with the householder to be advised of any

inquirles concerning the Subject and you should then notify

Headquarters promptly. Also, it is an unlikely possibility

that the Immigration

and Naturilization Service may direct

mail to the Subject at the facility.

3.

you to cancel.

DDS/IOS

4. A written report concerning your handling of this

should be forwarded to Headquarters.

In accordance

ADDS/With Section V, I, 7, page 47b of the Agent's Manual, your

ASST/ISport should include available biographic data on the 1n-

dividual providing the live address.

It is desired that

appropriate police and credit checks be made on this indi

G/OSD vidual where such checks will not prove embarrassing to the

Dc ospindividual or to your office.

c; → Attachmeny:

Control Cards

• 3,

GIRASY AM

3 December 1964

C/ID/M. 2.

The above assignment is based upon a verbal request from

Barney Hidalgo, WH/SA/CI on 3 December 1964 and also on dispatch

traffic between WH/SA at Headquarters and J.M. WAVE. Hidalgo

requested that the FOXTROT be established in the name of

SATS

ernesto Guzman GARCIA)

07

FILES

---

## Page 7

DOCUMENT CONTROD

PORIGIN

CROS

FROM

SUBJE

AVAL

503

COURIER NO

ANSWERED T

---

## Page 8

DOS...

SECBIT

Chief of Station, JMEAVE

Dopaty Chief, KH(5A)

OperationaL/TIPIC/ ANUS/TECES

BEckEtOpped HideSs fOr ANUEl MllEs DoCIentation

ACTION: Bee Below

REF: HAVE €787 (I4 23105)

1. Uhile 1t 1a possible for Headquerters to obtain s

Mully buckstopped address In KRUETAL fOr ALIOGI S1125

docmentation, it is believed that euch an sodreas da JuRAVE

would be nore adventigeons for the following reasons:

It has been the experience in sinllar cases

that certsin consulatos 1ll nor lasse vises to thelr

countries to persons applying for thea ta one city and

holdine pasports and 1-14 forns shoung peramment or ever

tempornry addresses in another elty.

#. The tect that subject resides in the wAY ares

should pose no particular problen in his being

bsckstopped in alias in the same city. for emple.

AMUG/I realded In true nane In the TRILTAL area aid

at the sane tise ms becastopped in alles in the same

Ted.

= Please névise.

Distribution:

3 - COS, HAVE

KENNETH E. PHILBROOR

- 31464

the tw

UFGE €547

10410219

---

## Page 9

14-00000

ALF: HAVE 6757 (IT 29105)

1. Thile it la possible for Bendquarters to obtain a

fully beckstopped address in BRYSTAL fOr AUG) Allas

docusentation, 1$ 11 belseved that mch an sadreas ta JNAVE

tould bo nore advantageous for the folloting Lessons:

countries to persons applying for then in one elty and

boldina passports and 1-91 forma shoring permanent or even

temporary addresses in another city.

3. Tho lact that subject resides in the WAVy area

should pore no particular problem in his being

backstopped in al1as in the same city.

for exaiple,

A0G/1 resided In True nane in the IRIETAl area and

at the sane tine vas backstopped in alias in the same

_ Plesss advise.

REINETH E. PHILAdOOR

- 3166x

Distribution:

3 - COB, WAVE

the writt

JIGE 4517

SECRET

19-8-102/3

suk

4421

1 - WH/SA/ESEC

1 - WH/SA/CI

1 - RI Miles

1 - TSD/ AB/A

1 - DDS/109

2/R0

MH/SA/CI

MH/SA/MOB

TSD/AB/S

DDS/IOS

DC/HE/SA

(by phone)

C. Gigas (by phone)

Bruce B. Cheever

---

## Page 10

4-00000

• HOM

ental

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

COPIes, 222

45

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

R1

cory

ACTION

NOVANCE

COPY

• WUN/SA 8

SLOTTFO

THAED

VRe FILE, DA CALADS, DILDA, EL, ISAG

TO! UNIT

TIME

SE CRET 132136Z

DIR CITE WAVE 4787

TYPIC ANMUG TECHS

REF DIP 63494*

i4 Nov&N23105

SINCE AMMUG/I RESIDING WAVE AREA IN TRUE NAME REQUEST ADDRESS

BE FULLY BACKSTOPPED OTHER THAN WAVE APEA. ISSUANCE

FUTUPE I-94 DOCUMENTATION DOES NOT REQUIRE WAVE AREA ADDRESS.

SECRET

*MASO IF VAVE HAS ANY ARE TERENCE IN USE OF

NON- BACHSTORIES AS AGALIST FULLY RACISTORTEN ADDESS

IN WAVE AREA. FOR USE IN FUTURE I-94'S

IN CONNECTION. WITH NEW. DASSANRT..

50118884

CLARS

MY

SECRET

---

