# 104-10112-10211

## Page 1

104-10112-10211

SECRETI

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT!

WUDUTDONE Office Space by

92

19 April 1963

Reference 1a made to memorandum dated Il April

1963 from MI. Joseph Murphy, DODS/Security, to Do/cour

relative to the above. Subject. In Tesponse to a request

from Chief, Support/DODS, the wilter Initiated appropriate

and final cover/security action to permit Implementation

of the Subject proposal as soon as possible.

03

security briefing of SAS Career Agant Ross Crozier. Follow

ing approval of the proposed plan of action by Mr. Stan

Gaines. DCDO/OP, Mr.

Chief, Support/ DODS; and ME.

arrangements were made to meet in the

Mo on 17 peLl 1963 with BAs Case Deficer M. Charles

Ford and Career Agent Ross Croster.

In the A. M. on 17 Aprll 1963

the writer met

with Mr. Charles ford and MI. Ross Crozler and escorte

both individuals to Room 633 of the WOUTDONE offices.

Crozier was given a brieting rei

(1) the background of the

*WUOUTDONE company which included Identification of the com

pany as that which was listed on the door of Room 633; (2)

Introduced to the published telephone number in the metro

glven an In.

charter rights which logically permitted a company representa:

tive to concern himself with venture capital, ete. In the Z1

or outside the continental limits of the United States. Crozier

was further reminded that the cover of WUOUTDONE was not to

be used for official purposes; that is! credit in the area,

employment references, etc., since this employment was no

one which afforded sufficient backstop. On the other han

he was reminded

1 that the (WUOUTDONE cover and Its cover office

02

SECRETI

---

## Page 2

03

•SECRETI

as with hia relatlves,

In the area. Me.. Crozier was quick to point out that he die

not intend to use the story unless It was absolutely neces

sary and that the maln purpose of the cover and the office

for the present would be to give him four walle, a typewriter,

and a phone where he could carry out his assigned work for

SAS and when and lf necessary give a plausible explanation

and stated that he would exhibit the utmost of discretion

flooxs, ete.

In this vern

bility to maintain good phone security when and If he has a

need to contact hia SAS Case Officers on a sterile line.

Ross

Crozter was given the office key to Room 633 and instructed

to call his SAS Case Officer should he need additional apport

direction and or instructione regarding his use of, WOutdons

cover facilities.

croster advised that he personally was very

appreciative for the facility made avallable to him and would

exhibit the utmost of discretion in utilizing the assigned

space and cover facility.

Prior to the actual briefing of Rosa Crozier and

charles ford, It was agreed by Mi. Gaines, Me!

1 ME.

and the writer.

that considering the circumstances

surrounding the limited use of woutDonE office by crozier,

a briefing ofthe cleared and witting law firm members con-

nected with WUOUTDONE was not belleved necessary.

However, 1t

was further agreed that should Crozler!s continued use of:

this cover indicate additlonal backstopping would be advisable;

appropriate adjustments would be made which in turn may well

Include a limited brlefing of one of

two key cleared and wit

ting legal personalities.

5. Thie memorandum will also serve to conflam

briefing afforded Mr. Gaines,

and MI.

verbal

In the

P. M. on 17 April 1963.

MATTHEW

касс

J.

ERNAU

Security Officer,

APB/ DODS

Distribution:

0r1g & 1 - DODS/Security Project file

1 = DODO/OP

1 - DC/COCM

1= DODS/ Support

[SECRET,

---

