# 104-10109-10379

## Page 1

104-10109-10379

oSS:

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

0OC

(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

Los Angeles

(FIELD OFFICE)

128855-9855

DATE

00

E.

CASE NO.

#222918 • G.W. BoA. Inc.

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

0J9 September 1960 and

r7e September 1960

OFMEE OF ORIGIN

Chos Angeles Fiero OFfici

REPORT MADE BY

13 September 1960

ADOSIES

ChiefiSSD

Dap Chief

A to Chic!

100.2.0

c.!.v. Br.

Ch. Sop. Br.

Dc.*: 15°

Dest Sü-

had & Ties

Control Daals

CHARACTER OF CASE

220085B/2

FINAL

APPROVED:

Feis. Whiteside

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE 12 OCt. 1760

DISTRIBUTION:

- 1

LAFO - 1

riles

FORM NO.

MAY 55

646

REPLACES FORM 38-109

WHICH MAY BE USED.

CLASS:

PRIORITY

(43)

---

## Page 2

FILE NO./222918

DATE 13 September 1960

SYNOPSIS

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

Cuy Bet,

Of SUBJECT company, 1e engaged in the

business of private Investigations of all types. The

extent of the operation le very limited and he appears

located in a commeretal, low-rent section of the city.

He office is on the first floor and is the only office

on this floor. He office is directly across the street

from the

e main Post Office.

He left his Balter Building

address

on St. Charles Street about eight or nine months

ago. va

*He had occupled two

rooms on the fourth floor of

a four story building, located in a commercial section

of the city and across the street from the Masonic Temple

which now honses many United States Government offices.

Is general business reputation is good but it appears

that his business is not very sound.

His business was

Incorporated on 21 January 1958. He is President and

owns 470 shares of stock and his wife is Vice-President,

owning 10 shares.

The Secretary-Treasurer at the time

of incorporation was Joseph A. OSTER who owns 20 shares.

A Dun and Bradstreet report reflected that Guy B

hired one investigator, Vernon GERDES, and the company

was not a financial success. A lien has been placed.

on the company and NSF (not sufficient funds) checke

have been returned. Four confidential Informants were

interviewed. They advised Guy B- was suspended from

his position as Assistant Superintendent of the New Or-

leans Police Department because he was involved in a

downtown bar incident. He was accused of being drunk

and of pulling a gun in public. There were many con-

flicting stories and favorable and derogatory newspaper

articles pertaining to the incident. Guy B--

-continued

REPORT NO.

FORMNO 1125

---

## Page 3

Suspension Iron the Police

he was,

sure-instated in a aifferent

as lifted ang

sposition with no

authority. He worked for to

hoys and then resdgned.

He then purchased

a newspaper hatretna which her

operated for about a year

and ayhalf When he was the

owner of this paper he as charged with defamation

was acquitted on 29 March 1960. (See Exhibit 1 referring

probably Por financial

need ten teason sold to an haven at

Dae, informant stated Cuy BeS

policy ls against desegregation

Thy to End it no delete orel the Bane o

Guy Band,

ratin has slow. The credit records on Joseph OSTER

was employed as Vice-President of the

812,000 and 15,000 Terry. He had three attomey

n Research Company, Inc.y

and earned between

accounts which were eventually paid. A credit report

on Vernon GIRDES reflected that he

was employed for an

Insurance company and had been an investigator for the

SUBJECT company and other Investigation firms.

The Re-

tail Credit Company files contained additional back

ground information on both Joseph OSTER and Vernon GERDES.

Police records were checked in the name of Guy Bin,

Joseph OSTIR and Vernon GERDES with negative results.

Herewith attached are Exhibits 1 thru B which contain

background information pertaining to Guy B-----.

---

## Page 4

1222918

13 September 1960

" New Or leantry Louis ener

one 12 Septenber 1960 Confidential Intormant II-17 was In-

tervleued thia informent hes furnishede rellable information

In the past

on seat he eat tanta sperintendent of the mete i. 1955

Orleans Police Departments Prior to this appointment SUBJECI

had been an FBI Agent and had retired after 20 years! service.

SUBJECT had been hired by Provosty A. DAYRIES, Superintendent

of the New Orleans Police Department, for the purpose of clean-

ing up

p the police departnent which

had been accused of being

corrupt, competent

established a very good reputation as an

10b s he pole arent the Bot him at

trouble during the hard Gras in March 1951: At that time he

was accused of being drunk and starting a fight in a New Or

leans bar in the French Quarter.

The Police Department conducted an investigation of this

incident which received a great deal of publicity in the news-

papers.

Many conflicting stories were circulated about this

incident. One was that the Police Department had framed, or

railroaded, the SUBJECT in order to get rid of him because he

was getting too close to the top men who were responsible for

the graft and corruption in the New Orleans Police Department.

The New Orleans Crime Commission defended the SUBJECT as did

many other prominent groups in the area. Newspaper articles

relating to the incident carried many conflicting stories of

witnesses.

One story was that the SUBJECT had been drinking

and had at least been indiscreet in handling the incident

which arose. Since the SUBJECT was a prominent police official

with a job requiring a great deal of tact and discretion, 1t

was hard to believe that a person in his position, 11 he had

been sober, would have caused the adverse publicity which he

received.

II-I7 stated that after SUBJECT was suspended from the

Police Department he purchased a newspaper, the Herald, a weekly

paper published in Gretna, Louisiana, which he ran for over a

When he was its owner the newspaper and the SUBJECT were

sued for defaming the Universal Drilling Company and one of its

---

## Page 5

14-00000

principal stockholders, Lews J. ROUSSEL. This alleged

defamation against the JUBiley received a great deal of

notorety in the local newspapers.

(See attached Exhibit

newspaper article from the Imes-Picayune,. New Or-

leans, Loulsiana, which reports the acquittal of SUBJDCT

on this charge)

After running the newspaper for over a year it was

believed SUBJECT had to sell it because of Minancial

difficulties. After selling the paper he started his

own investigative agency which bore his name, and at the

present time it is believed he is operating this agency.

From newspaper articles LI-17 had the impression that this

business, run by SuBJECt, might not be completely succesful.

In recent years SUBJECT has associated himself with

Kent COURTNEY, editot of the Independent American,

national publication which represents States Rights and

which 16 extremely right wing.in policy and appears to be

dedicated to the proposition of preserving white supremacy •

In the course of its promulgation of extreme views it has

used many unethical means. Il-I? stated that the people

who have been connected with this Independent American

have criticised the Supreme Court to the point of demanding

that all of the Justices resign because they were unethical.

II-I7 advised that this organization, known as the Independent

American Citizens' Council, 1s militantly against desegregation.

II 17 stated he did not know in what capacity SUBJECT was connected

with this organization. LI-1? had seen the SUBJECT at many of

their meetings and for all he knew SUBJECT might have been hired

by them to conduct investigations for them.

II-I7 stated ever since SUBJECT has had some connection

with this extremely right-wing radical group people have be-

or not he would use information,

come concened about th the do not he pold e aromat, to

further the cause

of this right-wing element.

Another person SUEJECT has associated himself with i3

Leander PEREZ, District Attorney for the Plaquemine Parish.

This individual is extrenely right wing in his political

thinking and has sufficient power that he can dictate whether

or not a person can vote. It is a known fact that he has

denied the negroes in his parish the right to vote.

-2-

---

## Page 6

there was no doubtin, his mind that sus

rican for after all he had been with their

for 2o

and he had accomplisned a great deal of good

on

the Police Force in New Orleans.

When he

was ss tent Buperintendent of Police SUBJECT helped the

Metropolitan Crime Commssion a great deal and that organt

zation, headed by Aaron KOHN, a former FBI Agent, camel to

the SUBJECTS ald when be was suspended from the Police Des

partment.

octan ta the tea or a too Department, Pee inter

as developed informant.

Orleans Ret stated that he had a great deal of respect

and a

admiration for the SUBJECT when he first assumed his

duties with the Police Department.

The fact that the sub-

JECT had been a

a former FBI man. Tor

over twenty years, and

had been Special Agent In Chicago, made it easy for one to

respect him.

When SUBJECT first took over his duties at the Police

Department he proved to be a capable administrator and he

instituted many procedures which were beneficial to the

Department. After SUBJECT had been in the Police Depart-

ment about a year he apparently began to believe some of

the favorable newspaper publicity which he received and

It was common knowledge that on many occasions he failed

to follow the orders from his superior, Provosty DAIRIES.

SUBJECT began to question, or take opposite sides on

policies set up by his superior, and to differ with the

views of Mayor MORRISON.

On many occasions SUBJECT was invited to be a guest

speaker at various organizations, sich as Young Business-

mens' Group and the American Legion. Song of his speeches

made before these groups were critical of the city admin

istration and the Police Department.

These criticisms did

not help the SUBJECT and alienated many of his former friends.

nine state dr in March 195t

nesses present at the bar at the time of the incident.

- 3-

---

## Page 7

14-0000đ

The majority of these witnesses stated SUBJECT had been

drinking and he appeared to be intoxicated. Testimony

also revealed SUBJECT grabbed the bartender by the jacket

and pushed him hard enough to. cause two buttons on the

jacket to break loose. Some witnesses stated SUBJECT

pulled out his gun and some denied it. There was also

sufficient testimony that SUBJECT had engaged in un

necessary altercations at the bar. Any one of these

allegations would be sufficient grounds for suspension

from the Police Department.

On 4 March 1957 Superintendent of Police DAYRIES

suspended the SUBJECT, but on 1 June 1957 SUBJECT was

re-instated in the Police Department.

His administrative

powers were deleted and he was given the job of Planning

ficer and the du deans nestigation ate act-

ivities in the New Orleans area.

for about two days and was then

discharged on the grounds

of insubordination. It appears that the SUBJECT had

failed to take orders from his superior, Superintendent

DAYRTES.

R-* stated that he personally had a great deal of

respect for the SUJBECT but he felt the SUBJECT had be-

come egotistical and domineering, and wanted the top

position in the New Orleans Folice Department and was not

interested in keeping the #2 job.

R-I stated that since leaving the Police Department

SUBJECT had purchased and operated a newspaper in Gretna

ut had been forced to sell it because of financial

difficulties.

SUBJECT then started his own investigating

agency which he operates at the present time. When he

started this agency he hired Joseph OSTER, Jr, a former

New Orleans Folice Officer.

On 12 September 1960 Confidential Informant R-&, in

charge of an investigative agency, was interviewed.

R-I stated he has known of the SUBJECT about five

When SUBJECT was Assistant Superintendent of

Police he had done a very commendable toon eAtententi

Sullet was an honest person who did everything in his

power to clean up the graft and corruption in the New

Orleans Police Department. When his investigation came

-1=

---

## Page 8

the lew Or leans Police Depart

need age mean

suspending him Trom the police force.

the Police Department, he has started a

11:103

rating businessend appears to be conductin

successful bards BYstated that most of

then no matlon he knew concerning

the SUBJECT had been

obtal erk ron newspaper articles.

on 1 September 1960 Confidential Informant R-t, ar

"ith the New Orleans Chamber of Commerce, wai

n-T aavised he did not now SUBJECT personally but

Knew

w of his reputation and activities when he had been

Assistant Superintendent of the New Orleans Police De-

partient From reading about the incident at the Absinthe

House Bar Pr stated he

was of the opinion that this In

chent hadbeen blow up out of proportion by the public,

andithe Police. Department used this incident to suspend

the sudse from his position, It appeared that the

BUBBLas getting too close to the bosses of the police

administration and to the graft and corruption in the de.

partment, and "consequently this incident was an excuse for

his suspension.

CREDIT :

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

On 9 September 1960 Mrs. Betty ENGELBRACHT, secretary

at the New Orleans Credit Bureau, 333 St. Charles, made

available a report, dated 1 April 1957, in the name of the

SUBJECT which contained the following information:

SUBJECT has been known to the files since February

1955.

and they have one daughter. As of 15 January 1955 he was

employed by the New Orleans Police Department as Assistant

Superintendent of Police and earns approximately $750 a

month. He resides at 6161 Canal Boulevard, New Orleans.

He is well regarded as to character, habits and morals.

---

## Page 9

tro red i Tary Minor elected stern

To oy Bodit bureas,

Oak Park,

reflected the

SUBJECT worked for five years on the Monroe, Loulalana,

On 1 Septender 1959 the Fort Worth, Texal, Continental

0i7 Company pepo

esto the New Orleans Credit Bureau that

the sUBJEcTA

lugust 1959, and he Died/for the months of flarch thra

ored $684.28 under the name of Guy Be

Associates no

113 Balter Building,

New Orleans, La.

on the report reflected that the SUBJECT had been employed

by the Alglers Public Service but this statement was not

further explained.

POLICE (CRIMINAL AND SUBVERSIVE RECORDS) :

At New Orleans, Iouisiana:

On 12 September 1960 the records of the New Orleans

Police department were checked in the name of subsol wit

negative results. The records were also negative in the names

of Mary W.

Joseph A. OSTER, Vernon GIRDES and Kent COURINEY.

GIANRALE

At New Orleans, Lovisiana:

On 9 September 1960 Mr. Ray TAYLOR, an employee at

Dun and Bradstreet, 442 Canal Street, made available a

report, dated 5 February 1960, which contained the follow

ing information about the SUBJECT:

Guy B---- Associates, Inc., Room 434 Balter Building,

404 St. Charles, New Orleans, is a Louisiana corporation

chartered 21 January 1958.

Authorized capital is 500 shares

with no par value stock:

- Sha

---

## Page 10

or the Folloe Depertment

Issoc lates,

vernon GURDRS (a1c), 35, married, was born inven

Or loans y Loul ai and.

He served in the United btaten

Marines From 1940 to 1945. Prom 19li6 to 1947 he vas

variously employed in the New Orleans area, and from

1918 to 195] he was employed by Chrysler In Michaud, /

Loulelana. From 1952 to 1954 he operated a local ing

vestigating

bureau and from 1955 to 1956 he was eras

ployedias an insurance salesman; from October 1956 te

January 1959 be worked at a service station. Since?

early 2950 he has

Guy 23

- Associates,

Served de Secretary-Treasurer of the

The Corporation operates a private detective agency

fee basis. Operations are conducted from quarters

in a large brick office building,

located In the down-

town commercial area.

Recent attempts to contact the

officers of the Corporation have been unsuccessful.

This Corporation has been in operation since January

1958 but in the opinion of authorities consulted, opera-

tions, especially in recent months, have not been con-

ducted along successful lines. Altho detailed operating

figures have not been available in outside quarters, the

opinion of authorities consulted is that the volume at

present is limited and the two officers who reportedly

own all of the outstanding stock are credited with earning

a small living, at best, from the business. The Corpora

tion has a few huddred dollars in fixtures and equipment.

Cash, if any, is limited and outside investigation reveals

that

during recent months some NSF (not sufficient funds)

checks have been issued.

A check of Orleans Parish Court reveals that in 6

November 1959 the State of Louisiana filed a tax lien

against Guy B-- Associates, Inc, in the amount of $393.

The Lien is still outstanding. The Corporation has a

slow paying record.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

on 9 sentencer 1960 the articles cá incorporation of

the in to iscoriates, inco, locatec at tic rivil is-

trict court,

verc revience and cflecter the follotin":

sociates, Inc.

ConToration lEne: -

Corects and turmoses:

1.

To concuct inestirrtions into crimurad and

civil conlaints for the pumpose of asserblin.

inion won for others rclatin. to existing or

threatened. tron's to crson, proterty or rej

utations; the existeuce, identity, craracter

10, 01t,, activity ano standin o° individuals,

association; ard the procurement of

factual rate necessar to the preservation and

enjomont of incivicuals an entities of their

lauful rishts.

2.

To estaclisi are raintain retail dealers pro-

tection and emplover evalration services.

3.

to conduct sumers of physicel rlants and

buildin's for ie esteblishnent of rrotective

sustens which till suers a cinct trespassers

and miscreants oi liatever line.

4. To establish and maintain querd services,

uni for ed and not uniformed.

5. To conduct ruelic opinion polls; consumer

opinion polls and such other time and linds of

inquiries as may be necessari to properly advise

clients in public relations activities.

Location and post office adcress of its registered office

is 7059 Ironne Street, 'er Orleans 24, Lovisiana.

The full names and rost office ardresses of its registered

agents are:

Guy I-----, 7059 irconne Street, ew Cricans, Ia.

¿oseph 4. OSTF, 663: Lorian Street, "

1t

Authorized shares of stock: 500

Amount of raid-in capital with which the corporation shell

begin is 1000 which will be paid in cash.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

The first lircetors and Officers are:

Fresident

Vice-ires.

Secy-'ireas.

Guy

Lary

Josenh i. CST_F

Shares

470

IC

20

hiid, totery tublic, on 21

Januer: 1059

1:l5 pail.

i chech of the liens filed against f AssoclateS,.

Inc.

at the Civil District Court at er Orleans reflecteo

the following:

R.€:

The State of lovisiana Parish of Orleans, City

of lew Orleans, lerartment of labor, Division

of trir loyment security, saton oure, louisiana,

arainst lur To Associates, InC.

The plaintiff placed & lien on defendent's

procerty for 393.07, Ilus interest of , 19.71,

which is

amount due in principal as contribi-

tions on employment covering the period be-

ginning 1 july 1:50 and encins 30 June 1959.

Anount owed to Division of Inployment, Security,

of the epartment of labor.

Lien recorded 6 lovember 1959.

1.ortgare Fecord. Book 1953, page 337, at the

Urleans larish, Civil astrict Court, new

üricans, Iouisiana.

On 9 Sentencer 1960 this izent concucted a survey oi

che facilities located at Room 434, salter vilding, 402

St. Charles.

Lt vas Learned that room u3h was the forme

Casual inquiries of

eight months.

An examination of this srace revealed that

it was unoccupied as of this date.

---

## Page 13

This space consisted of two rooms on the 4th floor of

a four-stom office building located in a sood commercial

section of the city.

This office builcing is well nainteined

and is daronally across tre street fron the i asonic Temple

wlaich houses many lovernment ofices.

Casral inquiries ir the falter vildin. revealed that

Cuy E- Issociates, inc. had moved to 531 Lafavette St.

I casual survey ves conducted at 531 Lafavette Street which

is located in a conmercial low rent section of the city and

is across the street fror: the linited States lost Office.

531 lafayette is an olc four-story building and the first

Iloor houses a restaurant on the corner and behind this,

the offices of Guy E-- Associates, Inc. The entrance

to 531 Iafayette is on the first floor and the entrance

doorway opens directly onto the strect. Tiere are no signs

on this beildine, nor is there any sim on the coorway to

the entrance of lu

- Associates, Inc.

On ? Sentender 1900 lirs. etty DiGIlERACHT, secretary

at the en irleans Credit Pureau, made available a credit

refort, dated 2? July 1960, in the name of vernon G. GaFDES.

Agent's lote:

accorcine to alüi report on iny l---- lssociates,

Inc. this indivional was listed as STAJICT!S associate and

his name was spelled "CUFLES!

Temon G. GERIES is married to lary Ann and has three

dependents. His are was shown as 36 and his occupation

was listed as self-employed investivator at 500 International

Euildin:®

i report dated 17 lovember 1959 contained the following

infomation:

V. C. GIRDES wes employed by Guy E- Associates, Inc.,

Falter Juilding, for the past four months as a private in

vestigator and associate.

V. CLADES is a native of lew

(rleans, Lovi siana.

Le formerly torked for liegins as a

carpenter, later served in the United states larines from

1942 to 1945 and then operated the terdes Service Station

for five years.

He then worked for Chrysler and later oper-

410-

---

## Page 14

14-00000

ated the Comercial Investigation Service from 1955 to

1957.

He was then an Agent for the jassachusetts Fro

tective Association from 1957 to 1959 and later was the

OWnET

of the CIROLS Conoco Service Station. For one

year it vas an investigator for Guy

Associates,

Inc.

E is presently seli-emploved and does specia

ork for ur - and the SouthemFesearch Company

lis andresses were shown as 1207 Constantinople, 1439

lesire and 1790 Rosario.

on 12 Septemier 19601r. woí.UCi_S, of the Petail

dated 1 june

Arerican" since 1960.

he graduated from Nichols Figh

School, len Crleans, Lovisiana.

He is connected with an

insurance firm but the name was not Inown by any of the

informants contacter!.

Te are netions? emlored as the

oiner and offrator of the Standard business Bureau, 2

collection arency onerated from his home. He has had!

this job lor over a year and still devotes

nart time to

this business.

Fe had been the owner oi a tonoco ervice station,

located at 101 si. ternard, for almost two years, but

closed the business because it was unsuccessful.

he is

married for the second time. His first marriage ended

in divorce, but there is no criticisn.

lie has one child

by his present wife. he is reported to be in rood health

and he is nell regarded personally in the communitr

Another report in the Zetail Credit Bureau's files

was dated. I March 1960 and reflected the following:

Vernon G. GIFDES was born on 7 center 1923. From

2 July 1954 be was self-employed as the Connercial In-

vestigation Service. He had nunerous previous employments

and is rerarded as becoming discouraged very quickly. Fe

worked as a clerk for Chrysler for two years. He worked

for vary 10T) Special Investigation Service as an investi-

gator for two years and was released as being unsuited for

the

100.

He was entloved by the ix-larine etective Agency

(sic) for a short time.

i love tes

He sold real estate for the WArMeR

Real Istate Comnany. Fe operated the CaRDES Service Station,

owned by his father, "or five to six years.

---

## Page 15

He served in the Marine Corps From December 1942 to

December 1915 His present wife works

sas a secretary

for

Armstrong Cork Company. He 18 well regarded and

haden good personal reputation.

the Retall Credit Bureau, made

avalable a

report of Investigation, dated 25 July 1960,

In the name of Joseph A. OSTER,

Agent's Hotel

Joseph pesteR,

dro

was Listed in the 1 & B' report

as being assoclated with luy But, Associates,

Ine.

The repota

reflected that he was employed as

pread dent of the southern tessarch, Inc., for the past

year and a half

Prior to thip he had been with fuy

B Associates, Inc, and with the New Orleans Police

Department. 3r

OSTER'S present employment is with a

private investigation firm having 10 or 12 employees.

He has

a good bue ness record and appears to be financially

stable.

received 1000 a year from rental income. His

main duties

are in the

lines®

He lives with his wife and children in an average,

middle class section of the city and his associates are

respectable.

Iouisiana, and is a graduate of Nichols High School. He

was in the New Orleans Police Department as a detective

for 6 years and left to work for Pendleton Detective Agency

for a short time and then joined Guy B-- Associates, Inc.

where he remained for a year and a half.

At the present time Mr. OSTER 1s Vice-President and

Manager of the Southern Research, Ince, whose home office

is in Shreveport, Louisiana. He earns $15,000 yearly from

his present position.

On 9 September 1960 Mrs. Betty ENGELBRACHT, secretary

in the Credit Bureau, made available a credit report in the

name of Joseph A. OSTER, JI. of 7135 Dorian, New Orleans,

Louisiana. The report, dated 3 August 1960, contained the

following information:

- 12-

---

## Page 16

Joseph d... OSTEF was about 31 years old, was married

and had four dependents. te was emloyed as Vice-Fresi-

lent of the Southern research. (orpany,

Irc. fis carines

vere estimated between : 12,000 and :15,000

vearly. He is

a native of lew Orleans and has lived at the above address

since March 1959.

he was formerly emnloved by the City of

few urleans, was in the irred forces and was honorably dis

charged. le attended lovola Universitv as a GI student ano

worked rarttime for the Frogressive benli.

In lecerter lile entered the emrlor of the rencleton

Detective icency as an investigaior.

trior to this he worlec

for Cuy I---- issociates, Inc. as the secretary and Treasurer.

The report reflected that ir. OStet had three attorey

accounts for collection and all were paid. It had been re-

ported that he owed 130.94 to Godchaux, a liew Urleans LE

partrient Store, as of 20 lay 1959. Carl LEDSETTER had, sued for

33.65 as the result of an automobile accident. lir. OSTER'S

credit was rated "slow'".

Mr. OSTIP'S addresses ire listed as

7135 lorian

6638 Pori an

2428 Pay

3025 Spain

1200 Common

All of lew Orleans, louisiana

Attached to this report are ixhibits I thr ? which contain

background infornation pertaining to Guy B---

FOD:efd

Attach: Ix. 1-%

- 13-

---

