# 104-10310-10020

## Page 1

1104-10310-10020

TRANSMITTAL SLIP | DATE

TO:

DSCI

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

REMARKS:

. 1-

FROM:

ROOM NO.

100: 59-241

BUILDING

REPLACES FORM 10-1

WHICH MAY BE USED

EXTENSION

GPO. 1957-0-4304145

(0)

---

## Page 2

13-00000-

(CLASSIFICATION)

175-1502/

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

In reply refer to

Action Memorandum No. A -42!

Date -

I April 1905

TO

Deputy Dleector for Plana

Dopaty Director for Infalligence

: Depuly Directes for Sclence & Technology

Depusy Director des support

Agreesient Berreen the United sates secret service

and the Contral Intelligence Agency Conceraing

SUBJECT : Frenidential Provocion In the United intes

REFERENCE: MiNIOrAndAN ITON DOCI LO LD/L LD/F. ADE DD/

encod & Juno 1963, subjects The CLA Rele lo Support

al F'residential Tripe Abroad

Lo Attached for the Informalon ol addrenaces is a copy ol majeci

~uh the recommendacions ol the varron Commisnes sod the actons of the

Predenso Committee on the WArren Report

do In Deputy Director lor Plane la responible for lasure

Agency con:plance mít this agreement and lor maintainias the setive lalon

with the Secrer Servee. The out function la this regard de being performed

In she Counter intelligaco Sull ef the DD/P. All Agesty components lo

lasses with the sueres sarrice are lo keep the Counter Intelligence tall

informed of their donllago with the socrot Service, The Coustes Intelligence

Stall will provide adules lo other Aguscy compenanto no secelve requests

los mpport frem the Secret Service.

So Tula agreement does no amend or alter curters Agency polley

88 expressed la sy remorandun al 8 Juse 1961 concessing support ol

I-rosidential (ripo abrond. he nódicional a freer ens with the jecret iervice.

Involving ClA asd other Gorernient agencies deallay wita l'realdontial travel

abroad, lo is process of developi eat.

(Signed), Marshall S. Carter

As shall j, Carter

LemonaDe Gareral, UsA

tepasy Director

SUSPENSE DATE:

Attacha.ost

€6:

coc

nis

c...

(CLASSIFICATION)

---

## Page 3

13-00000

65-15C7

CONFIDENTIAL

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE AND

THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CONCERNING PRESIDENTIAL

PROTECTION IN THE UNITED STATES

I. Purpose of Agreement

A. The purpose of this Agreement is to define the types of infor-

mation, administrative assistance and support to be furnished by the

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to the United States Secret Service so

that the Service may best fulfill its responsibilities to protect the person

of the President of the United States while he is in the United States. The

CIA role in support of Presidential trins abroad is the subject of a

separate Agreement with the Secret Service.

B. The terms of this Agreement shall be applied to the protection

of members of the President's immedite family, the President-elect,

the Vice President of other officer nest in the order of succession to

the office of President, the Vice Presilent-elect and former Presidents.

I. General Responsibilities

A. The Secret Service has the responsibility for protecting the

person of the President. It undertake: to identify individuals who, brause

of their individual propensitics or cia:acteristics, are dangerous o:10

may pose a threat to the person of the President. It arranges whatever

action is required to counteract any th eat to the person of : e President

posed by such individuals.

t::

CONIDE: TIAL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

B. The CIA has primary responsibility for the clandestine collection

of foreign intelligence information, and for the correlation, evaluation

and dissemination within the Government of foreign positive and counter

intelligence. It gathers end maintains biographic and other data on

organizations and individuals, official and non-official, for the purpose of

performing its statutory junctions. It also originates, and receives from

other sources, reports on organizations and individuals. However, the

Agency has no police, sulpoena or law-enforcement powers or internal-

security functions.

IlI. Information to be Reported by CIA

A. The CIA will jurnish to the Secret Service information that comes

into its possession of the type set forth in Appendix A to this Agreement

concerning individuals coning to its attention of the classes set forth in

Appendix B to this Agreeinent. The information may be furnished in more

than one report, and in energency situations priority attention will be

given to its preparation and delivery.

B. After reportirg an individual to the Secret Service, the CLA

will thereafter--unless the Secret Service otherwise requests--report to

the Secret Service additional information which it thereafter receives or

obtains concerning such individual.

C. The CIA will urnish o the Secret Service intelligence and

intelligence information that becomes available concerning:

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(1) Groups outside the United States which advocate

assassination of government officials as a political weapon

and which appear to constitute an existing threat to the

President or any persons named in Article I, Paragraph B.

above;

(2) Sabotage and assassination training by hostile

intelligence services of groups and the identity of persons

so trained who appear to constitute an existing threat to

the President of any person named in Article I, Para-

graph B. above;

(3) Plots in the United States or abroad to assassinate

a Chief of State or other high official.

D. This agreement shall be reviewed by representatives of the CIA

and the Secret Service annually, or ai such more frequent occasions as

either the CIA or the Secret Service may request, to make certain that

the system of reporting is both practicable and productive. Revisions

may be made on the authority of the Deputy Director of the CIA and the

Chief of the Secret Service.

IV. Provision of CIA Personnel to Protect the President

A. On occasion the use of a large number of armed officers is

required to carry out the protective functions of the Secret Service due to

such factors as the size uf the crowds, the number of persons to be pro-

tected or the existence of a national emergency. At such times CIA may,

at the request of the Secret Service, detail some of its security officers

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CO TADENTIAL

to the Secret Service in order io augment the Service's capacity to carry

out its protective functiors in the mosi secure manner.

B. Such officers detailed by the CIA will be designated officers of

the Secret Service under the direction and operational control of the Chief

of the United States SecIet Service. No person shall be so detailed unless

he has qualified in the us of firearms either in accordance with standards

established by the Chief of the United States Secret Service, or in accord-

ance with standards established by the Director of Security of the CIA.

Persons so detailed will be authorized to carry firearms and to perform

such other protective functions and duties as are authorized by law, as

provided by section 3056 of title 18, United States Code, as amended.

V. Implementation of Agreement

A. The Secret Se:vice and the CIA undertake to maintain an active

liaison to insure the proript passage of available information concerning

individuals reported to the Secret Service by the CIA and evaluated by

the Secret Service as dargerous to the President or any person named in

Article I, Paragraph B. Furthermore, in order to effect the best possible

security of such persons, the Secret Service and the CIA will take such

steps as are necessary to insure that the terms of this Agreement are

fully carried out.

Dated: 27 Marcis 19605_

Ce aral Irtelligence Agency

Marshall S.

arte

Duputy Director

Urind States Secr.i Servicü

CAHDETTIAS

James J. Rowiey

Chief

---

## Page 7

13-00000

1.

3.

CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX A

Information to Be Furnished on Individuals Reported by the Central

Intelligence Agency to the Secret Service

Identification Data - to the extent available to CIA, name or names of

individual (including prior legal names, aliases and pseudonyms),

address, photogriph (or staternent as to availability of such), physical

description, date and place of birth, employment and marital status;

Reason or Reasons for Reporting - statement of the class or classes

in Appendix B, wiich the individual reported fits;

A summary or excerpts, as appropriate, of such portions of any

CLA file on an ind vidual reporied which cause him to fit any class

or classes in Appindix B.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

13-00000

----=

1.

2.

4.

5.

CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX B

Types of Individuals to Be Reported by the Central Intelligence Agency

to the Secret Service

Individuals who have made threats of bodily harm against, or have

attempted to cause bodily harm to, officials or employees of Federal,

state or local Governments or ioreign government officials while

they are residing in or planning an imminent visit to this country;

provided that such threats or acts are made against the Government

official or employre because of his official status;

Individuals who theaten or attempt to redress a real or imaginary

grievance against Federal, state or local Governments or any

employee or official thereof by other than legal means;

United States citizens who defect or indicate a desire to defect;

Nationals of any Country in the Sino-Soviet Bloc (including the USSR

and Communist Cliina) located in the United States, and who have

escaped from the control of any such country, or who, being outside

such jurisdiction ind control, are unwilling to return thereto, and

who have been of : peciai interest or value to the United States, and

who cannot be eliriinated as a possible source of danger to the

President of any l'erson named in Article I, Paragraph B;

Subversives, com nunists, racists and fascists in the United States

who meet one or riore of the following criteria:

CONZIDEYTIAL

---

## Page 9

13-00000.

• =

COVFIDENTIAL

(a) Evidence of emotional instability or irrational or

suicidal behavior, particularly in persons who have a record

of transitory residence or employment;

(b) Expressions of strong or violent anti-United States

sentiment;

(c) Prior acts (including arrest or convictions) or conduct

or statements indicating a propensity for violence and antip-

athy toward good order and government.

The term "subversives" shall mean persons (including members of

the Communist Party and Communist front organizations) who

knowingly or willfilly advocate, abet, advise of teach the duty,

necessity or propriety of overthrowing or destroying the Govern-

ment of the Uniter. States or the government of any state, district

or possession the :es o the government of any political subdivision

therein by force o violence or by the assassination of any officer

of any such goveriment.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

13-00000.

BAST MONTH

1069 OCTOBER

1083

SMT WTF

1

• 3 4 5

6 7 8 9 10 11 12

13 14 15 16 17 18 19

20 21 22 23 24 25 26

27 28 29 30 31

Friday

AM.

8:45

9.00 Intertigene gorating

9:30

9:45

10:00

10:15

10:30

10:45

11:00

11:15

11:30

11:45

12:00

12:15

12:30

12:45

MEMORANDA

1963 NOVEMBER 1963

S

M

W T

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10 11 12 13 14 15

16

17 18 19 20 21 22 23

24 25 26 27 28 29 30

22

enlu

1:00

1:15

1:30

1:45

2:00

2:15

2:30

2:45

3:00

3:15

3:30

3:45

1:00

4:15

4:30

4:45

5:00

NETT MONTH

1009 DECEMBER

1063

SM TWTF S

1

2 3

45

6

8

9 10 11 12 13 14

15 16 17 18 19 20 21

22 23 24 25 26 27 28

29 30 31

November

Geneat Cart

returnet for t5s

Tie sit tennety

326

Friday, November 22, 1963

39

---

## Page 11

13-00000

i calatte

LAST MONTH

1963

OCTOBER

1969

SM TW

F

1

2

7

8

3

4

5

9 10 11 12

13 14 15

• 16

3 17 18 19

20 21 22 23 24 25 26

27 28 29 30 31

1963 NOVEMBER 1963

M

T

W T

F

1 2

3

4

5

6.

7

8 9

10 11 12 13 14 15 16

17 18 19 20 21 22 23

24 25 26 27 28 29 30

Sat. - Sun.

23-24

AMET

Nast

8:45L

1:00

9:00K

1:15

9:15

whip, Detas, cline, LBK.=

atE0it

1:30

9:30

1:45

9:45

2:00

10:00

10:15 Si met w/Whalin → Kirkpetrien

10:30

it later a whilet

a whale

10:45

11:00

11:15

11:30

11:45:

12:00

12:15

2:30

2:45

3:00

3:15

3:30

3:45

4:00

4:15

4:30

4:45

5:00

NET. MONTH

1969 DECEMBER 1063

SM TWTF

S

1234567

3 8 10 11 12 13 14

15 16 17 18 19 20 21

22 23 24 25 26 27 28

29 30 31

November

P. M

Mr 1-ides

MEMORANDA

327 Sat, Nov. 23, 1963 38

328 Sun, Nov. 24, 1963 37

---

## Page 12

13-00000

LAST MONTH

3963 OCTOBER

1963

S M

TW T F

1 %

3

4

5

6 7

8

9 10 11 12

13 14 15 16 17 18 19

20 21 22 23 24 25 26

27 28 29 30 31

1983 NOVEMBER 1963

8. M T

w

T

F

S

1

2

3 4 5.6

7

8

9

10 11 12 13 14 15 16

17 18 19 20 21 22 23

24 25 26 27 28 29 30

25

NETT MONTH

1089 DECEMBER 1069

SMTWIF

12 3 4 567

8 9 10 11 12 13 14

15 16 17 18 19 20 21

22 23 24 25 26 27 28

29 30 31

AM

7.70 BEI

8:45

Monday

Karaneseastessmith

9:00 -

9:15

9:30

9:45

10.00 lad tiger ears guten

10:15 St. n-attrau's

10:30

10:45

11:00

11:15

11:30

11:45

12:00 Peside ranged funered

12:15

12:30

12:45

November

P.M.

1:00

1:15

1:30

1:45

2:00

2:15

2:30г

2:45 Returned for Finend

after going to Quarters

3:00

3:15

Jor matfelres

3:30

3:45

4

4:00

4:15

4:30

4:45

5:00

329 can all Monday: November 35, 1963, stemedy 36

---

## Page 13

13-00000

14 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) Meeting at 1600 on 13 February

1. Present were MI. McGeorge Bundy, MI. McCone,

Mr. Vance, General Taylor, Mr. Alexis Johnson, Mr. Mans,

General Carter, MI. FitzGerald, and Peter Jessup. General

Taylor and Mr. FitzGerald were present only for the Cuban

item.

2. Prior to the arrival of Mr. Bundy, General Taylor

mentioned to Mr. Alexis Johnson an upcoming trip of the Joint

Chiefs of Staff to Norfolk, Fort Bragg, and Panama. After

some jocular bantering, Mr. Johnson vetoed the Panama portion

of the trip, with General Taylor hoping that this denial was

purely for the physical protection of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

3. Mr. McCone mentioned the possibility that he might

go to Saigon next week to see what was going on out there. He

stated that we were not getting sufficient timely information

from the Ambassador and that while he and Mr. McNamara

might be going out later as a follow up to their December trip,

he felt the need to go now. General Taylor pointed out that

there have been a great many visitors to Saigon in recent months

and perhaps we should give them a rest out there for a while.

In any event, he thought perhaps the newly-created NSAM com -

mittee headed by Sullivan would want to make such a trip. General

Taylor seemed reluctant to have Mr. McCone go at this time.

MI. Johnson said he would take a look at it and be in touch with

Mr. McCone early next week.

4. The first item on the agenda was a discussion of

the Vance memo of 10 February on "Clandestine and Covert

Activities Against Cuba." Mr. Vance stated that he was strongly

for this course of action, that the risks were minimal, and that

---

## Page 14

13-00000

- 2 -

the JCS and Secretary McNamara also strongly supported it.

Mr. Johnson pointed out that he would be much happier if the

paper had been sent to the Cuban Coordinating Committee in

accordance with usual procedures. Mr. Vance stated that the

committee knows all about it and are for it. Mr. McCone

stated that he was disturbed over the trend of events in Cuba

and that this particular paper really does not go far enough.

He pointed out that our economic denial program was eroding

away and that the courses of action proposed by Mr. Vance's

memo gave Castro maximum grounds for righteous indignation

without really accomplishing anything. Mr. Vance stated that

prior activities in this regard had created great consternation

in Cuba, and Bundy challenged this and asked for proof. Mr.

McCone pointed out the many times that we have had to stand

down actions of this type in order to avoid raising the noise

level. General Taylor said that what we really must do is to

reaffirm the belief of the senior policy makers to the President

that a program of this type must be continued. Mi. Bundy

pointed out that the Secretary of Defense had previously stated

to the President, along with Secretary Rusk, that they were

not enthusiastic for this type of activity but he noted now that

Mr. McNamara had reversed his position. Bundy pointed out

that we have been somewhat hesitant to go ahead full force on

these actions because we did not want to prejudice our position

before the OAS in connection with the Venezuelan arms cache.

Mann stated that our entire program as regards Cuba was

ineffective insofar as it could result in any overthrow of Castro.

At about this point both Mi. Mann and MI. McCone stated that

we should do everything possible to create provocations and

distressing actions against Castro. Bundy stated that the low

risk actions appear unrewarding and that rewarding actions have

too high a risk. Mann stated that we need to do a lot more

homework before the next OAS meeting (presently unscheduled)

and Bundy said in any event we must have a top-level Cabinet

Meeting with the President to discuss this whole matter. The

agenda item was left as follows:

a. Mann is to get the Crimmins staff hard at work

on the Vance paper and on other alternative courses

of action to include pros and cons, noise levels,

estimated results, etc.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

= 3 =

b. Mann is to send around a draft OAS resolution

which was prepared during Martin's time.

C. As to the specific paragraphs of the Vance

memo, Bundy indicated his personal views (not an

Administration commitment) that items l and 2a were

OK; 2b for Cuban ships only; 3a should be intensified;

3b and 3c were directly connected to a separate black-

list enterprise; 4 was OK. As for actions against

Cuban subversion in Latin America, on paragraph 1 we

should see just what our opportunities are, and on para-

graph 2 CLA should determine just what we think the

local traffic will bear and just what our capabilities

might be.

Finally, after a very short discussion on low-level reconnaissance

requirements for Cuba, General Taylor and Mr. McCone decided

to pay close attention to high-level results on Friday, Saturday,

and Sunday, and to take a fresh reading on the matter on Monday.

Action: DD/I to cover the low-level matter over the weekend,

DD/P to ride herd on the activities generated by the Vance memo.

5. The next item was a very cursory review of the

France, Tibet,

China. Mr. Vance asked how we could measure the effectiveness

of such actions and MI. McCone pointed out to him that this could

not be really adequately measured and gave all the reasons therefor.

Mr. Vance stated that he was just getting broken into this type of

activity and he

activity and he would appreciate some briefings by the action

officers. (It was subsequently arranged through Pete Jessup to

have Colby and Bill O'Ryan make appointments with Secretary Vance

specifically to discuss French operations and our Far Eastern

6. MI. McCone then brought up the matter of the SAC U -2

aircraft in Manila as covered in his memorandum of 13 February

which was not given any distribution. Mi. McCone said that ever

since 1954 it had been established policy that all reconnaissance

flights over denied and unfriendly territory or covert flights over

---

## Page 16

13-00000

1 4=

friendly territory were a responsibility of the Director of

Central Intelligence with the customary approvals of the Special

Group and that he wished this policy reaffirmed and proper

direction be given so that the DCI would designate the organiza

tion and resources to be used, either SAC or CIA. Mr. Vance

stated that NRO was involved and that upon receiving the urgent

requirement from CINCPAC for this single flight and upon

learning that the Taiwan assets were stood down because of fuel

control problems, the JCS, Mr. McNamara, and he had agreed

that SAC should fly the flight. He stated that Mr. McAfee of the

State Department had been informed on Sunday night and that

the Base Commander in the Philippines also knew about it. He

stated that there were only two targets concerned and that with

luck they could be obtained with a single flight. Mi. McCone

pointed out that the question had not been raised with him by

Steakley as to military aircraft or sanitized aircraft nor was he

aware of the cover plan that might be utilized in the event of

difficulties. Mr. Vance stated it would be the regular cover

plan of a weather ship off course. Vance said this was a one-

shot problem only and that as soon as it was completed, the

planes and crews would be withdrawn. He said both he and

McNamara were greatly surprised when they learned that SAC

had sent three airplanes and seven crews to perform this single

mission. He said they could understand the need for two air-

planes in case one aborted but certainly not this large contingent.

He said this had no connection with the South Vietnam broad

coverage mapping and that the Taiwan assets should be used for

this.

7. It was apparent that all were in agreement that the

Director of Central Intelligence had the responsibility for

approving requirements for photo coverage and for determining

the appropriate resources to be used for this coverage whenever

it required overflights of denied or hostile territory or whenever

it required covert flights over friendly territory. Mr. Bundy

stated that the DCI should prepare the necessary directive to

this effect and circulate it to the other members of the Special

Group for their approval at the next meeting. Action: DD/S&T

---

## Page 17

13-00000

- 5 .

to prepare for me by no later than noon Monday the simplest,

most concise, directive along the foregoing lines.

Marshall S. Carter

Lieutenant General, USA

Deputy Director

Distribution:

Original - DDCI

1 - Elder/Enright

Paras 1-5 to Mr. Paul Eckel DDP/SGO

Paras 6 & 7 - DD/S& T

---

## Page 18

13-90000

STORET

ERS GUY

Tre

115%

18 January 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Disarmament Meeting on 18 January 1964

at the White House

1. At 2:45 this date Mr. Alexis Johnson informed me that

there would be a meeting with the President at 3:15 p.m., in

the White House to discuss the most recent revision of his

proposed statement to the Geneva Conference, and that I was

expected to be there. Upon arriving at the meeting place I was

handed a draft by Adrian Fisher. It subsequently developed

that McNamara, Rusk, Taylor, and the President must have

had this draft for at least long enough to have thoroughly reviewed

and considered it. In any event, I read it immediately and was

struck by the fact that in those areas of the original draft as

given to Mr. McCone by Dr. Scoville in which the DCI had taken

exception, ameliorating language had been inserted in the new

draft to considerably temper and meet objections of Mr. McCone.

The draft was now much more a speech by the President as to

what he hoped might develop as a result of mutual give and take

rather than a statement of U. S. policy and definite intentions.

2. The President entered the room shortly, accompanied

by Bill Moyer and Jack Valenti. Others present were Rusk,

McNamara, General Taylor, Dr. Seaborg, Adrian Fisher, and

myself. Alexis Johnson was not present.

3. The President opened by stating that he had read the

revised draft and wanted to know if there were any objections to

it. Dr. Seaborg pointed out that he had some hesitancy about

opening totally his closed-down plants for international inspection

(paragraph 3, page 3) but that there were many ways of deter-

mining whether or not the reactor was in fact shut down -- he

simply did not want to give carte blanche to inspectors overrunning

the entire plant. This position was adopted. Dr. Seaborg then

ST3RE7

---

## Page 19

13-00000

£72T

- 2

said that he wanted it understood that the closing down of the

plants was not necessarily a permanent commitment and that

whenever it became necessary or desirable, in the absence

of international agreement to the contrary, we should retain

complete freedom of action to reopen a reactor any time we

chose.

This position was agreed.

4. MI. McNamara pointed out that he had been working

steadily the last few days to get agreement in the Pentagon on

a paper substantially in accord with this draft and that the only

thing that now gave them a problem was subparagraph (c) on

page 4 as to the establishment of nuclear-free zones. He said

if this could be deleted, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the

Department of Defense would buy the paper. Their concern

was that we would get so involved in these zones that we would

lose freedom of action to shift nuclear weapons through the

Canal Zone, for example, or by air through overflights.

Secretary Rusk pointed out that they had discussed this a num-

ber of times before, that it was nothing new, and that he would

hope we could establish nuclear-free zones in Latin America

and Africa for example. The President said that when the

crunch came he depended on the Joint Chiefs of Staff and that

he must have them on his side. Accordingly the paragraph on

nuclear-free zones was eliminated.

5. I then stated that the President should know that there

was on record a letter from Mr. McCone pointing out some

problem are as the could developine a poet on these pointe

on the need for full and adequate verification. I further said

that aside from the intelligence aspects of the problem, there

were certain policy matters as regards reaction of West Germany,

and particularly France, that should be considered. The President

then asked for Mr. McCone's letter and glanced through it rather

hurriedly. General Taylor asked to see the letter and he did the

same.

I then gave a copy to Secretary Rusk, particularly pointing

out those portions of DCI's letter concerning his membership on

the Committee of Principals and his reservations at the policy

SECRET

EYES CLY

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SEERST

EYeS C Y

- 3 -

level. Mr. Rusk indicated he had seen Mr. McCone's letter.

(Subsequently Mr. Adrian Fisher stated that they had worked

all afternoon and most of the night in revising the original

draft to meet the objections raised by the DCI and he thought

that they had moderated their language and weasel-worded the

statement adequately to meet DCI's objections.) The President

then asked me if l had any specific, further objections to the

statement now that the nuclear-free zone problem had been

eliminated and that the DCI's letter was on record. I stated

that depending upon what was actually finally determined as an

international agreement, we might be in serious trouble on

verification but that this problem would come later. I felt that

as a statement by the President there was adequate protection

in future negotiations to ensure the best interests of the United

(I subsequently checked with Adrian Fisher who assured

me that there was no backoff in ACDA and State from the require-

ment for adequate verification and that the additional words

inserted in the latest draft were specifically to meet DCI's prior

objections. In other words, DCI's letter of comment is a matter

of record with the President and the other principals at the

meeting, and the President commented that the Central Intel-

ligence Agency was certainly a smooth-operating outfit. It was

obvious that he had his tongue in his cheek in this regard to

indicate that we not only covered our rear but our flanks as well. )

The President then directed a number of actions as regards

Congressional briefings, preparation of a talk for him to make

to the American public in explanation of his Geneva Conference

statement. In connection with this speech for American con-

sumption, he directed that it be prepared so that any tenant

farmer could understand it -- ten words per sentence, four sen-

tences per paragraph, and four-letter words throughout.

6. This ended discussion of the Geneva Conference statement.

7. New subjects:

a. There was then a discussion of a letter to Khrushchev

but I was not aware of the contents nor were the contents

mentioned. The discussion revolved around the date at which

such a letter would be made public.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

SHORET

EYES ELY

b.

The President then expressed his great concern

over the emergent situation in Panama. He said that he

had proposed injecting himself directly into the problem

yesterday with a public statement and approaches to the

DAS specifically to lay down publicly exactly what the facts

were as regards Panamian aggression, intrusions into the

Zone, killing of American soldiers with rifle bullets by

snipers while they were armed only with bird shot, etc.,

etc.. He said that he had been dissuaded from this course

by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State and

others. He said he was shocked to read in this morning's

New York Times a story (presumably the Tad Szulc article)

that pretty well covered exactly what his proposals were.

He said he still felt if was a good idea and that he thought

Harriman, Rusk, McNamara, Johnson, and others should

assemble small groups of Latin American Ambassadors and

tell them what he, the President, wanted to tell them. He

thought it was an even better idea if he did it himself. I did

not get the impression that a decision was made in this

regard nor do I think any action will be taken as a result of

this meeting. Unfortunately the discussion centered then

on the security aspects of leaks to the public and the President

expressed in no uncertain terms, with great persuasiveness

and even more emphasis, his unhappiness at his complete

inability to say anything to anyone without its immediately

being in the papers or getting around town. He made some

very pointed comments reflecting on the integrity of the State

Department and of the Department of Defense in this regard.

He felt the situation had become extremely serious in the past

two months since he had become President and did not recall

any such problem when he was meeting periodically with

President Kennedy. He said he was prepared to clean house

wherever necessary to overcome this. Secretary Rusk pointed

out that this had been going on for twenty years and was nothing

new and McNamara agreed. The President thought it was

worse than he had ever seen it before and that in his 22 years

on the Armed Services Committee and around the Hill he had

never been involved in anything like this nor had he ever been

EXaS 0337

---

## Page 22

13-00000

EVES C.TY

- 5 =

bothered by reporters once he had made it clear that he

was

not the talking kind.

No decisions were taken, no

actions directed although both Rusk and McNamara indi -

cated they would immediately take whatever steps were

feasible to improve the situation.

c. The President then reverted to Cuba and said that

he questioned

seriously whether these sabotage efforts were

the proper thing for the U. S. to be doing. He thought they

were both hypocritical and ineffectual and while he under-

stood the need for some of them to maintain the morale of

internal dissidents to the Castro regime and to maintain the

morale of Cuban exiles, he thought probably these consider-

ations were outweighed by the hypocrisy of our seeking peace

and talking peace and conducting this sort of activity on the

side. Rusk said that he had never been in favor of this pro-

gram and had the same doubts the President did. McNamara

said that he too had never been in favor of this program and

questioned our participation. I stated that while this program

was conducted by the CIA, every action taken had the full

i participa

approval of the Special Group on which the Secretary of State

and the Secretary of Defense were adequately represented

and that the program was designed in part for the specific

purpose of generating internal sabotage and dissidents with

a view to creating as many problems as possible for Castro

and with a view to getting an escalation of anti-Castro activi-

ties in Cuba, that over the long run any type of effort such

as this was an irritant to Castro and that such action had

some effect, even though slight, on the Cuban economy. I

said that over the long run you could not expect the Castro

regime to fall from these actions alone but that every little

bit helped, and that we had noticed over the past four months

a considerable increase in sabotage actions generated from

internal Cuban elements over which we exercised no control.

I said that I could not take exception to the fact that this

policy was a hypocritical one in the light of a peace offensive

although I did not feel we were trying to make peace with

Castro. I also pointed out that sabotage activities in North

SZONET

EYES CZY

---

## Page 23

13-00000

EYES CY

- 6 =

Vietnam likewise had hypocritical aspects. At this point

Mr. McNamara demurred and said North Vietnam was an

entirely different matter but he gave no reasons therefor

and this point was not developed further. General Taylor

noted that in connection with sabotage operations they kept

Castro constantly on the alert and kept his forces heavily

occupied running hither and yon. The President noted that

this was probably true but so little gain in it and generally

seemed disaffected with sabotage efforts. Rusk pointed out

that there was some value in maintaining some pressure of

this type since to completely desist would eventually lead

Castro to believe that he was immune from retaliation. The

President then directed that he wanted a complete review

of our Cuban policy and some new, imaginative thinking

developed. I stated that this was presently heavily in train

in all appropriate agencies of the Government, and Rusk and

McNamara nodded their agreement.

The President said he

would want to meet as soon as people had drawn up their

proposals. In connection with Cuba the President noted that

he continued to desire the most drastic pressures on our

Allies to insist upon their cooperation and assistance and

compliance in our economic denial program against Cuba.

He said that Segni and Erhard had both assured him we could

count on the full cooperation of Italy and West Germany to

cease any further Cuban trade. He said he wanted similar

discussions prepared for him whenever he met these leaders

and for our leaders to take the same line in any discussions

they might have.

d

There was minor discussion as regards the situation

in Firth Vietnam with no one indicating any great enthusiasm

or any great surge of hopefulness as to the present situation.

The President stated he was most unhappy to be making a

speech indicating that things were improving and then to have

a USIA spokesman and an Embassy spokesman state in Saigon

that things were falling apart. He said somebody was getting

poor advice as well as poor information and he was inclined

to think it was he. He said that he was new in the job and

that he had in the past several months based his actions on

UL

EYES 1.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

- 7-

the advice and guidance he had received from his principal

advisers whom he considered professionals and experts

in their fields. He said he was beginning to have serious

doubts that his own judgment had been wrong in a number

of cases although he was the first to admit that he had been

wrong in the past throughout his life at various times and

was certainly no more immune than anyone else from

making mistakes. I got the distinct impression that he was

mighty unhappy with some of the actions he has taken as a

result of recommendations from State. I also got the feeling

that from here on out he is much more liable to use his own

intuition and prescience as to what should be done and what

should not be done in the daily operations of his actions in

the foreign policy field.

e.

Turning to more pleasant matters, the President

noted that the dinner he had given for the Congressional

Committee leadership had been a complete success and that

he was going to repeat it again on the 23rd and the 30th. He

had received nothing but highly favorable accolades from

the people who had attended and many of them indicated it

was the first time they had ever been in the White House and

certainly the first time they had had an adequate briefing by

the Administration leadership. The President said that he

had received a phone call saying that he should continue this

and he was certainly going to do so. He had also been

promised that at least in large measure as a result of this

briefing he would have a tax bill reported out by Wednesday,

The President then said we could do a lot better. He told

Rusk and McNamara that they should take a nap in the after-

noon prior to these two dinners so they would be much

a road her to do wou no

fresher and more alert -- that they had done an A No. 1 job

but not quite up to the caliber that they had put on for the

labor leaders -- in his mind that performance could not have

been better.

The President said he had planned for the

briefing to be twenty minutes and that instead it had lasted

an hour. He said that this was entirely too long and that

Mr. McCone alone had spoken for seventeen minutes. He

SESHET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 25

13-00000

EYES ONLY

- 8 -

then said that for the next two dinners he was going to have

only two briefers and the briefing would be scheduled for

fifteen minutes and that twenty minutes was the absolute

maximum he would sit still for. He said he wanted Mr.

Rusk and Mr. McNamara to work this out together, with

Mr. McNamara covering both the U. S. military and the

Soviet military as covered by Mr. McCone, and Rusk

covering the Soviet economy and the world roundup as

covered by Rusk and McCone at the last hearing. I sub-

sequently checked with Bill Moyer to determine whether.

this was a change from the President's instructions to Mr.

McCone or whether it might have been an oversight. Mr.

Moyer stated that the President had given much thought to

this and since Mr. McCone would be away, he had changed

the system to the one just enumerated. This makes abun-

dant sense to me under the circumstances and I considered

any further discussion either with Moyer or the President

inappropriate.

8. The meeting then broke up at 4:15 because the President

had to go out to dedicate a building.

9. The foregoing notes are in a single copy and will be shown

only to the Director upon his return.. Any actions indicated will

be directed by me at the Monday morning meeting. I will send a

very short, sanitized report of this meeting to Mr. McCone by

cable.

Marshall S. Carter

Lieutenant General; USA

Acting Director

SEGRET

EYES OZY

---

## Page 26

13-00000

4 January 1964

MEZIORANDUM FOR INE

RECORD

SUBJECT:

Meeting with President Johnson on 31 December 1963

1. The background as to the purpose of this visit is covered

in my Memorandum for the Record dated 1 January on my visit to

Independence to see Mr. Truman.

2. We departed Kansas City airport in the early afternoon

of 31 December, arriving at the Johnson City airport hortly before

3:00. This airport was built by President Johnson in his own back

yard and was subsequently turned over to Johnson City as their

We were taken to the Johnson residence and made com

fortable in the combination office-sitting room just off the dining

room. Coffee was served and in a few moments the President and

Mrs. Johnson joined us. After appropriate welcoming to the ranch,

Mrs. Johnson retired to her household chores.

3. Mr. Murphy briefed the President on our discussions

with Mr.

Truman and reported to the President Mr. Truman's

desire to help in any way he could during the coming year. Mr.

Murphy followed generally the comments indicated in my previous

memorandum as put forward by Mr. Truman. I thought he gave a

much too favorable report on Mr. Truman's condition and mental

agility. This was understandable to me since Murphy is one of the

junior old cronies

of Mr. Truman. The President asked me for

my reaction and I gave it substantially in accordance with the last

paragraph of my Truman memorandum. I told the President that

I certainly felt Mr. Truman was willing to do anything he could or

was asked to do to assist President Johnson; that my own reaction

was that Mr. Truman was in some respects senile and living 90%

on memories and his past. I stated that I thought there was certainly

nothing wrong with Mr. Truman's mind or alertness but that I felt

some caution should be exercised in just how Mr. Truman's assets

might be utilized. The President made no comment except to note

---

## Page 27

13-00000

-2-

wryly that he himself occasionally had problems with his memory

but that he did not think he was yet living with it entirely. The

President then noted that we should have been briefing Mr. Truman

more often and that perhaps had we done so, it would have pre-

vented the type of article he had recently published about the CLA.

The President then stated that he wanted President Hoover,

President Eisenhower, and President Truman briefed monthly on

the international situation as well as on the domestic situation

and what his programs were. (Action: This requires follow-up

with the White House and possibly a discussion between Mr. McCone

and the President since Mr. McCone indicated informally that he

thought once a month was too often and that, in any event, while

ClA can handle the international situation, we should have some

other agency handle the domestic situation. )

4.

The President then made a number of statements which

seemed to be in part his philosophy of operations and in others a

repetition of his conversation with Erhard.

It was difficult to

separate when he was repeating what he had said to Erhard and

when he was stating a Johnson principle.

5. The President stated that he was much taken with Erhard

and that he thought him a smart, articulate German who was much

Erhard apparently attempted to

feel the President out as to his reactions to various statements and

positions taken by deGaulle. The President got the impression that

Erhard was initially trying to play off deGaulle against the President.

Mr. Johnson told Erhard that as far as he, Mr. Johnson, was con-

cerned, he was going to do everything possible to promote a peaceful

world but without in any way relaxing either our guard or our military

strength; he was prepared to walk around the world if necessary to

promote peace when he was convinced that such walking would assist --

on the other hand, he had no intention of making trips just to cultivate

friends and promote the giving away of U. S. resources in an effort

to entice people to join our camp; if they wanted to come in willingly

with their eyes open, he would welcome them but he felt it was time

for other nations to do some thinking on their own and to make their

---

## Page 28

13-00000

= 3 -

own judgments without the need for U. S. persuasion in the form

of concrete financial and military aid. Accordingly, the President

intended to stay home and do his own heavy thinking as to just

how he can best promote peace -- if this led to trips, then he

would take trips.

If people wanted to come to see him to talk

about peace or other matters, he would be delighted to receive

them but there must be something worthwhile to talk about and

something that will lead in the proper direction. He said that

during his lifetime the United States had been forced to fight two

wars because of Germany and that he was not going to allow any

situation to develop which might lead in that direction again so long

as he was President. He said he would not be a party to any shilly-

shallying in that direction and that Germany must make up its own

mind and see which way they intend to go. If it were going to be

toward deGaulle, then say so. If it were going to be toward the

United States and its concept of a free world, then say so and prove

it by putting more effort into their actions in this regard -- more

effort in the way of more money and more support of United States

policies. He told Erhard that this was the way he felt and there

was no point in Erhard trying to play off deGaulle against President

Johnson nor to try to get Germany in the middle between those two

nations. The President said that Erhard apparently accepted this

frank talk and for the rest of the visit never once mentioned deGaulle.

6. The President then directed that Salinger acquire from

USIA and CIA a roundup of world reaction as to Erhard's visit. He

said that if we did not make any money on that deal, we might just

as well fold up our tent insofar as influencing foreign visitors was

concerned because he, the President, had really put out and had

really talked turkey to Erhard -- which was the only way he, the

President, knew how to talk. He said that this administration was

being criticized for either having no foreign policy or a poor one

and that he therefore wanted as much publicity as possible on the

highly favorable aspects of the Erhard visit. (I subsequently had

a CIA report prepared and forwarded to Salinger on l January,

pointing out that it was an initial report and that a real reading on

Ambassadorial and Governmental reactions would be coming along

---

## Page 29

13-00000

- 4=

later since it takes more time to acquire these from somewhat

sensitive sources.

7. The President then went on to say that people seem to

have the impression he was going to sit back and try to keep things

on an even keel so as not to disturb the upcoming election. He

said that this was a wrong impression for people to have and that

he intended to do everything he possibly could to ensure maintaining

and augmenting the great forward momentum that President Kennedy

had been developing toward world peace and proper domestic

policies. He said that this was a time for real action and that the

United States must get itself out of this trend of thought that it sits

back and reacts to others' actions rather than creates actions of

its own. He is tired of reacting -- he wants to act and let others

react to him and this is one of the things he intends to think about

during upcoming months. He therefore urges the most imaginative

thinking possible both in and out of Government to see how best his

ends can be attained. He pointed out that this was not going to be

easy because this was an election year and lots of people would be

looking for ways to attack him and his policies. He said, however,

that he could not sit by and watch this opportunity for promoting

peace and understanding among nations to dissipate simply because

it was an election year in which he would be politically involved.

8. The President then said that he had been totally dis -

satisfied with what the State Department had proposed he send to

Khrushchev and he had therefore sat down at the desk (pointing) and

had in his own handwriting composed the New Year's message to

Khrushchev

He intended to continue to promote every possibility.

for a basis of understanding looking toward peace and again reiterated

that any agreement would never be at the expense of our own security.

9. He then asked me for a briefing of any current situations

that he should be brought up to date on. I brought him up to date on

Cyprus, on Cuba, and on South Vietnam since he had indicated that

he had read recent Checklists.

---

## Page 30

13-00000

= 5 =

10. As to Cuba, he stated his dissatisfaction with our

present policies and actions connected therewith and said that

shortly after his return to Washington, and probably after the

State of the Union message, he wanted a comprehensive review

of the Cuban situation and our policies and he wanted the most

imaginative and forward thinking people put to work on seeing

what else could be done.

He did not feel the sabotage efforts

would ever really result in any ultimate goals for U. S. interests

but was prepared to accept some of them if they promote internal

dissidents and assisted the morale of the people we were working

with in Cuba. He stated he was not at all satisfied with the

Governmental actions taken thus far to curtail free world trade

with Cuba. He said he had told Erhard that he could not tolerate

West German trade with Cuba and that Erhard had assured him

that while it was very small, he would put a complete stop to it

as soon as he returned to Germany. The President directed that

thorough preparation be made so that when Pearson visits the

United States, Mr. Johnson can take him on in the same manner

and similar preparations should be made for other free world

countries doing appreciable business with Castro.

11. There was then a discussion with Staats and Murphy

about some sort of pork barrel program which was to be canceled

and which Hubert Humphrey and Elvis Stahr had taken violent

exception to. Apparently the President had received a vitriolic

letter from Elvis Stahr about this matter because he commented

that he now understood why Stahr had made such an inadequate

Secretary of the Army. The lines of action directed by the

President as to preparation of responses was not a matter for ClA.

12. There was then a discussion as to some sort of adjust-

ment in tax procedures which, by reducing a figure from 15 to 14,

would save

some $800 million this year.

Neither Mike Forrestal

nor I heard this loud and clear but I think it had to do with adjusting

withholding tax deductions. In any event, no decision was reached

by the President and the conversation was directly with Staats and

not for the rest of the group.

---

## Page 31

13-00000

- 6 -

13. The President then turned to Indonesia and stated that

he was faced with the necessity of making a decision as to whether

or not it was in the national interest to continue aid to Indonesia.

This decision had to be made by him in accordance with the foreign

aid bill just passed. He said he wanted in writing from Secretary

Rusk, Secretary McNamara, and Mr. McCone their recommendations

as to what his decision should be. He also wanted to get reactions

from Senator Russell and several other Congressional leaders. He

quoted a figure of $25 million which was involved. (Action: The

wheels are grinding in the Agency to come up with a pro and con and

consequences paper for the Director upon which he may make his

recommendation to the President. The figures are somewhat con-

fused and the actual amount appears to be in the neighborhood of

$60 million.

Mike Forrestal has these figures pretty well tied down

and points out that the Presidential decision does not require any

action on PL 480 funds.)

14.

The President then stated that he was totally dissatisfied

with the proposed program for alleviating poverty which apparently

suggested that he ask Congressional authorization for a lump sum

of money which he would administer through some sort of newly-

created poverty administration. He said he wouldn't touch it with

a ten-foot pole and that if he proposed anything like that on the Hill,

they would laugh him out of court and it would probably bring a

defeat in the Democratic party in the upcoming elections. He would

give absolutely no consideration to anything which could possibly

result in graft or pork barrel activities. Any program for the

relief of poverty must be designed to get right down to the grass

roots out where the poverty actually exists and must be handled by

existing Federal, State, and community organizations which are

geared in this direction. He mentioned specifically the possibility

of utilizing the Bureau of Public Roads and other similar Federal

and State organizations. He said that if roads are to be built, they

should be built into and out of poverty-stricken areas and to pro-

vide access to schools and hospitals and such human needs activities

and not, repeat not,

for the improvement of major trunk lines and

highways.

He thought perhaps the people who were receiving this

---

## Page 32

13-00000

- 7.

type of aid could be utilized in the construction of these roads

where they would see the results of what they were doing and the

purpose of it. He stated that any attempt to organize a new

administrative entity to handle this matter would not even get

off the ground before the year was out and would merely result

in more Government people on the payroll and more bureaucracy.

He directed an immediate reappraisal of his program for the

relief of poverty and coming up with an entirely different concept

for his approval. Mi. Staats and Mr. Murphy indicated they would

follow through on this.

15. The foregoing covers all pertinent points to the best

of my recollection. I shall write a separate memorandum of the

tour President Johnson gave us of his ranch and with particular

attention to the fact that he built and paid for every improvement

on the place out of his own pocket, including the runway, the run-

way lights, and the dam across the river.

MSC

---

## Page 33

13-00000

MR

fore

President:

Moder

Erhart-mich taken-ament-articlore - appesed mare than Adenaner-

Prea say his going to stry home a Thinks of ways to get prace-

If others want to come tuck Of - but he hot make trips jush for trips-

Geway to say which way they 4o— put more into it re We has

No fight 2 Wald Was becamef Camay - This Pros, wait going

to be a pant to cry shiny salying like that Then Exhush was Oka

Pres, wante round upfrom FBIS(1) and USIA on uned reactin to

Erland wait said y disit make many one that deal night as wed

give up- we got cintaged as lo frique poling - bied up a story -

highly farate per Fing -

---

## Page 34

13-00000

des.

I January 1904

Paragraphe dor message to OCt In Eight han gent sending o

1. The President has not yet approved the 1765 budget

and it is being extremely closely held. Agency requirements

totaled |

Tand BOB cute reduced it to

Further cute are quite obviously in the mill.

The '55 total

request will be lesa than '64 and expenditures will likewise be

less. than '64. There will be departmental reductions in Defense,

State, NEC, Agriculture, with increases in HiEl and Labor.

With relation to Gross National Product, the 165 budget will be

the smallest since 1951. This will be the first time in ten yeara

thas there ban been a decrease in personnel, amountag to

approximately

The smallest Increase during this period

in 1957.

2. Major legialative proposale will be those that are

left over from last sension, such as Civil Righte Bill, tax cut,

etc. New programe will Include a procedure for attack on poverty,

new program for ald to education below college level, new program

for medicare, preparation lor next year's foreiga ald bill, ete.

Najor emphasis on human needs continues.

3. The President winhes to conduct an all-out review of

our Cuban policy after returning to W shington. He particularly

wants a more imaginative approach with hard-nosed emphasis on

economic denials through pressures on third countries. This in

line with his statements at recent Cuban meeting at White House.

4. President personally wrote New Year'a message to

Khrushchev, released today.

5. Fresident faced with decision on whether or not to

continue $25 million ald prograra to indonesia. As you know, this

in primarily civic action. Ho manto a study of pros and cons

with secommendation is writing from you, secretary of State, and

others. Also want reaction from senator Russell and othere on

tilll. Will take up when he returns.

6. Salinger will send me tomorrow the memoranda he

wrote on conversations with the Russlans as to Fresident'e Intentione.

---

## Page 35

13-00000

1. President established outstanding rapport with Erhard

and things are looking up in that ared.

8. President greatly concerned over continuing altuation

in South Vietnam.

9. President wante General Eisenhower, Mr. Truman,

and Mr. Hoover briefed monthly on international and domeste

affairs. Stated that had Premident Truman been getting these

regularly, he probably would not have authorized publication of

CIA article, In connection with Truman article, thie matter not

argued at Independence.

10. Premident much interested in foreign reaction to Erhard

talks. We furnihed roundup news media reaction to Salinger today.

---

## Page 36

13-00000

TOP SECRET

UNCLASSIFTED when blank - TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document - Automatically downgraded

• to RECRET when filled in form ia detached from controlled document.

CONTROL AND COVER SHHET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION

REGISTRY

SOURCE

CIA CONTROL NO.

DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED

DOC. NO.

DOC. DATE

COPY NO.

NUMBER OF PAGES

NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

R. D. SHEA.

25 May 1961

LOGGED aY

This form will bo placed on top of and attached to esch Top Secret document received by the Contral Intel-

ligence Agency or classifiod Top Secret

attached to the document

until sech time an it

Access do Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control

Secret Control Officers who

Each individual

the Top Secrot

"docuson end, 'edicond Pedicate the date of handline to ane

Mire a

Mr o

5/m

Jones

Mr. Kirkpatrick

Mr. Shea

Facesse

-FAC

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT:

spaces below and tran

DOWNGRADED

When this form

detached

itted to Central Top Secret Control

material it shall be completed in the appropriato

DESTROYED

TO

BY (Signature)

aY (Signature)

WITNESSED BY (Signature)

DATE

DATE

торм чо. 26

1 APR 55

USE PREVICUS EDITIONS.

(OP-2). 12-99

TOP SECRET

DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)

ar (Signature)

OFFICE

JOATE

140)

---

## Page 37

13-00000

TOP SECRET

2 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Interview with Dave Morales, GS-14, Chief of CI Section,

Miami Base, 25 May 1961

1. Morales, who was born in Arizona of Indian and Spanish

parents and 1s bilingual in Spanish and English, former football

player, arrived in Miami In October 1960 after spending two years

at the Havana Station. He appears to have done a unique CI Job

In organizing, within the Frente, the future Intelligence service

for the new government of Cuba that the Invasion force expected

to install. He also organized two other groups. He did this with

the help of & chilean instructor that was supplied by headquarters,

and with materials training) that WH/4/CI Section]

sent down to him.

2. The principal group were 39 selected, highly educated

Cubans, who were trained as case officers to form the future

intelligence service:

They are known as the "AMOTS". After being

trained they were employed by Morales in doing a series of highly

Important tasks for the good of the station. These were as

follows:

8. Penetration of the local anti-Castro organizations.

b. Penetration of the pro-Castro organization in Miami,

the so called 26th of July organization.

c.

Preparation of biographical information on all

prominent persons in the Frente.

d. Carding some 200,000 Cubans in the period of three

months.

e. A special section of the AMOIS monitored all radio

transmissions coming from Cuba.

This amounted to eight stations

that were covered on a 24 hour a day basis.

f. Screeing of all persons recruited for the grade B-g'a:

(but this work first started in November 1960, and by that time 300

This AMOT screening of the

military trainees really amounted to a field check since the

various cases were

discussed with Cuban sources of information

present in Miami.

PAN FROZET

---

## Page 38

13-00000

.. r9e56

g. Mail censorship. All mall coming from the military

camp in Gustemala was censored by this group before being released

for transmittal to Cuba.

Four of this'were sent back to Cuba with instructions

to report on CI targets; chiefly the secret service and the police.

3. The second group trained by Morales were 100 selected

Cubans who were given training as future CI officials and civil

were lost, nine were caught and the rest got out, due to the

circumstance that most of them were on the steamer Lake Charles

that not be t and

which

owing to the developments at the beaches did not land its

troOps. These men were given the job of penetrating inland as

fast as possible with the troops and identifing and seizing records

and documents of the Castro government. Following that they were

to set up the temporary civilian government of Cuba.

This group were

yas known as the AMFATS. The members of this group were brought back

to Miami where they are now living privately. The third group were

the AMCHERRS, & group of approximately 100 older, nonpolitical

Individuals, who received training from Morales as & reserve in

Intelligence personnel. Eighty of these had been trained by April

1961 for eventual legal return.

4. Morales stressed that POA's had been received on members of

all three groups and that the AMOIS received tradecraft training

far in excess of that received by the average Agency staff employee.

5. After the Invasion the Frente leaders endeavofa to change

the AMOIS into a political organization and remove the chief leaders

of the AMor group.

Such a development had been anticipated by the

base and prior to that action all files, the most valuable part of

the AMOL,

organization.had been microfilmed (see my Interviews with

Simmons fon more details on this protective maneuver).

The chief

AMOTS who were thus removed by the Cuban leaders are still organized

under Morales as a shadow intelligence organization.

6.

Personnel shortages:

Morales accomplished all of the

foregoing with the aid of only two girls one a GS-9 analyst. He

tried In vain for more than three months to get a junior case officer

assigned, but in vain. This request was forwarded through

the CI Chief In WH/4. Morales tried to get one or both of two JOls

who were in Miami on IDY, but the vor office refused to release them

tha on the ground that it would interfere with their training.

Morales feels that these young officers would have learned more in

- 2 =

T27 1F0021

---

## Page 39

13-00000

three months under him than they would learn in three years of formal

training. As a result of being so short handed, Morales had to work

eceived excellent support generally,

other sections of Miami Base.

7. As for suggestions for better operation in the future,

is, shin

R. D. Shea

TOP SESTET

---

## Page 40

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED when blank - TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document - Automatically downgraded

to EECRET when filled in form is detached from controlled document.

CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION

SOURCE

DOC.

NO.

DOC.

DATE

COPY NO.

NUMBER OF PAGES

NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

R. D. SHEA

1 June 1961

REGISTRY

CIA CONTROL NO.

DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED

LOGGED BY

downdraded, destro

outside of CIA.

attached Top

Top Secret document received by

the document until soch time as

Secret matter is limited to

Control Officers who receive

indicate the date of handling in the

Mr

Mr

Mr. Kirkpatrick

Mr . Shea

трин

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT:

Below and transmitted to Central

DOWNGRADED

vetached from Top secre

Top Secret Control for

reeord

aterial it shall be

completed

approprinte

DESTROYED

TO

BY

(Signature)

BY (Signature)

WITNESSED

BY

(Signature)

DATE

DATE

FORM

NO

I APR

55

26

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(OP-2) 12-39

TOP SECRET

DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)

BY (Signature)

OFFICE

JOATE

---

## Page 41

13-00000

• 4.

lord

5 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: THE RECORD.

SUBJECT: Interview with

1 June 1961

7 Chief of WH/4's CI Section,

(This memorandum should be read after Morales interview)

1.

is a dedicated CI type having spent the last 1l years

chiefly

on CI matters largely under OIR auspices. He spent two years

1954 to 1956, setting up and training the

an rently 95l to 156 setrate up de as been with out since then and

came to WH/4 in mid-April 1960.

He is about to be transferred to

WH Division Staff andhis replacement will be Louis Napoli who will

bead the new combined FI/CI Section of WH/4. He stressed that the

charter of the new combined section will give CI the right to interfere

in any operation. This will be spelled out explicitly, thus countering

the difficulties that_

bad in dealing with the PM Section prior

to the Invasion. Bob Andrews will stay on for CI matters and Seebafer

will head the FI part both under Napoll.

2. AMOTS (future Cuban Intelligence service trained by Morales

at Miam1). This idea started when Anderson of Wi Division Staff told

that he had&

CI officer who was available for training

Cubans. Drawing on his

J experience, L

_drew the AMor plan

and prepared the training materials and sent them to Morales for

execution. It was Morales who subsequently conceived the idea of

men. These matters are discussed

in detail in my memorandum on Morales. Morales also organized a group

of former Cuban diplomats presently in Miami to have them available

when a new government is set up. Subsequent to the invasion the AMOIS

have been substantially changed by Cardona. He has replaced the top

AMOIS by political appointees who have no skill in tradecraft. The top

men thus fired had anticipated such a move, and, in addition to micro-

filming 120,000 cards, they removed all cryptonyms and all memoranda

of conversation between them and Morales with the result that the new

22 of them of whom a four are inside Cuba with 14 subsources; all of

them producing FI and CI reports. By December 1960 the AMOIS had

produced 1,800 Intelligence reports and 750 radio monitor reports.

Carden. i

V8z67.8

1.d...d

---

## Page 42

13-00000

3. In dealing with the Miami Base,

stuck strictly to

there chone bet on old ta had of fore to tat cases s

command channel was,

Miami Base to Morales. He and Morales understood each other

perfectly and there was no other obstacle of any sort in their it

collaboration. There was no second-guessing or double case offering

in CI matters.

and his section ran a number of CI ops directly

from Headquarters.

He referred to the following:

A certain lady of easy virtue who had a vast acquaintance

among the top Castro people.

who for eight years has worked for the

Agency as & penetration in Communist

Tin various

countries.

A certain

who has been living la/depart

home of

Unfortunately,

an expected Castro official appointment did not mterialize and this

operation has not proved to be of much value.

d. A former U.S, negro citizen now in the Cuban service.

e. Juan Orta, forner chief of Castro's executive office,

now out of office.

5.

gave me the attached copies of four basic documents.

Tab A - WH/4 counterintelligence plan, June 1960

Tab B - Counterintelligence plan for an FRD security service,

late August 1960

a centrans

Tab C - CI program for future project, 20 April 1961

e'?..

Tab D - Counterintelligence assets, 29 April 1961

In addition, Morales gave me a copy of & dispatch summarizing Miami's

CI assets currently in Cuba, (Tab E).

6. Relations with PM Section:

relations with the PM

section seem to have been marked with a considerable amount of friction,

perhaps more than always results from the resentment operators feel at

the Inhibiting influence of the CI man. Thus whenever & IM agent was

lost, & CI man would analyse the files and draw a damage sheet showing

what the agent knew, etc.

showed me a large file containing

about 50 of such cases.

people kept only very skimpy records. A CI representative, |

--2.-

---

## Page 43

13-00000

the liar

trained

, d

sailed

aIs0 went over all incoming messages from agents to scrutinize for

the use of freedom signals.

pointed out to PM they would sometimes claim that the agent had

you ve tote to stop ato

When the absence of such signalstas

see to seen the suspect seal able traceas to

tig

Clive! ;

delegated to be the CI contact with the PM people, and due to his

5.s..

quiet methods and competence he gained a fair share of their

confidence and the work proceeded more smoothly.

7.L

_and his section prepared a 225-page study or

Castro's intelligence organization.

This document was distributed

generally throughout the U.S. Intelligence community, as were also

some extensive studies on Cuban block wardens. They also Issued CS/

CI Information reports and

gave a number of briefings to

higher-ups. They were able to identify 14 provocative activities

by the Cuban services in the

They identified

as & Castro penetration

agent in 1960.

* This document contains the

identities of 492 Castro G-2

= staff officers.

8. From September 1960 to January 1961

Ispent half of

his time working on the case of the three ST ESCALATE members, 1.e.,

the audio and development team which was arrested in Cuba and is stil

under arrest.

If these men had checked in with the CI Branch before

departure they would havertained not to go. I

regards this

matter of the greatest potential danger to the Agency, e-B:, 1

if these

men should be sent to Moscow to be milked.

9.

described the following difficulties he had had:

a. Hissection was not fully staffed until October 1960,

although be went to the greatest lengths to get additional people.

He first had a machine run made for a list of CI personnel having a

knowledge of Spanish.

He checked the records of the individuals

-thus disclosed. He sent the names thusselected to the WH/4

personnel officer who made a great effort, but in no case was he able

to get & man taken off his present job.

He feels that the DD/P

should in the future tell all his senior officers of the importance

1ve meet Ate batter all cooperate covet tr

from covert training

for two TDY trips,

could not face going tol

Jwith a

further request, and instead asked Jack Earman in the DCI's office 6

help him get

for another trip. The Director of Training

complained of

informed his senior officers,

this Irregular procedure. If Mr. Bissell bad so

I feels that they would have

received better cooperation.

The result of lack of personnel was that

they all worked six or seven days a week. L

_knows of no case

of a directed assignment to the project.

As it was he personally

had to spend 80 per cent of his time on administrative matters with

the result that he could only spend 20 per centof his time on operations.

His final I/0 was four case officers, four analysts, two clerk-typists

and one secretary.

3

---

## Page 44

13-00000

b. Working space was also a great problem. From May

through September 1960 they were working seven or eight in a single

room.

c.. Dr.

chief of the JOTP refused to release two

JOTs whom Morales

wanted as assistants In Miami.

One of these is

named

and is very fluent in Spanish.

10. For the future

recommends:

8. That an ICFLUllER operator be assigned to each base

permanently, not withstanding the expense.

The need for such a man

(at times can be very urgent.

b. There should be one cleared Staff D room containing

all relevant files so that the entire job can be done in one room.

this means add Stall Dilles involved, all operating cards

and report cards, so that, for instance, a CI enslyst can sothere onality

do a complete job in perfect security. The Staff D yleld was a

"gold mine"

c. If CI section had been told the time and place of the

Invasion they could have checked their records on the area and the

adjacent areas and have given the brigade recommendations for

document seizing, etc. In the towns that would be passed through.

Il, Despite difficulties referred to above,

feel that

the results of his section's work were very good

, and that one

Indication of this is that the upper echelons of the Agency sent him

many matters for bandling that were not strictly of & CI nature; for

Instance, Inguiries from the DCI, from Congress, etc.

In cases where the Cl Section discovered that an agent

communicating by radio was not using hisssfety signals, CI would belp

the PM or other section to handle that agent in subsequent communica-

tions so that he would be kept alive. This sometimes_ reguired that

requests by the agent for supplies be complied with. In one case LUGLOG.

was intent on preserving the man so that he could be used at

the end for purposes of deception. The agent requested en air drop

and it was decided to comply.

said that Gen. Cabelt disclosed

to the cuban aircraft a crew that

was to make the air drop that the

agent was & double agent. Accordingly the crew did not even go near

the drop, nor did PM Section advise

until four days later that

this bad occured. The result was that the man was Immedlately taken

off the air and

Thad indications that he was shot. If

had been advised earlier of the failure to make the drop, he could

have tried by a suitable message to explain the omission.

R. D. Shea

---

## Page 45

13-00000-

.d..

ca. I:r:

MARC COUNTERINTELIIGENCE PLAN

TAE

I. MISSION

To develop and/or maintain and extend, through agents and other

covert means, Intelligence coverage of the organization, personnel, turget

Interests, modus operandi, operations and assets of the Cuban Intelligence

and Securtty Serrices and the Cuban Communi st Partys to sailarly develop

Intolligence coverage of activities affecting the Carlbbean ares which are

conducted by the U.S.S.Bo, ly the U.n.Ro, and by the Chinese Communiate of

other prO CASTRO officiale and groudas to protect eurrent and future CI, FI

and CA operationa through analyals of their operational plans and through

exainatian of nor operational proposals and to coordinato designatod CI

matters with the ca Staff and with itaft and geographie connonente of li

D1 v1 81 0n.

JHARC OPERATIINAL PLAN

III. CONCEPT OF OPERATION

at 1u essential that an aggressive counterintelligence program be

devised and Ipplemented to ensure sound operatlond socurity for JEC

operations. The MAPC countorintolligence affort will, therefore, ba

directed towards acguiring Infornation concerning the organizations, personnel,

target Interests,

modus operandi, operations and asjets of formign intelligence

and socurity services active in the Caribbean area; towards analjaing JMAiC

operational proposals and stabs in light of what 18 learned about osposition

Intelligence capabilities and activities; and towards containing ininical

activities directed agadns: JARC assets and operationa.

SECRET

---

## Page 46

13-00000

....

- 2-

*V.

ONGAN- LATXON

Tho following personnel and facilities are required for successful

attement of JMARC CI objectives.

a. Porsonnels One sendor CI officery four operations officers,

five analysts (three with a profieloney rating of high" in

reading ipanish), three clork typiats; one secretary. Initially,

two case officers and one analyst should be sent to the share

Forward Operations Base (FOB) to carpy out assigned tasks discussed

below. Two analysts luith at least high proficiency rating in

reading Spanish) will be assigned to the task of screening certain

Information reports. Iuo analysts (one senior) and a clork typist

v1ll form a rocorda unit for the CI Section at Headquartera, tro

operations officers and a clert typist will form an oparations

unit for the ca section at headquarters.

Do Pacilitioos The CI soction a 1 Headquarters will require vorking

space for ten personnel and for the following heavy affoe equip

ments eight deske and chairss eight standard typewritera, one

card safes thrue four-draver safos. Standard offico supplios so culd

be provided. The CI operations unit at the FOB will rejuire support

commensurate to its size.

V. PHASINO

A. PRETAHATONY PHASE

1. Principal Objectives: To acquire current CI Information on opposition

services in Caribbean ara through developing counterintelligence

oserations and through recording ci information.

SEGRET

---

## Page 47

13-00000

SIC

т.:'

• 3.

2. Operational Taskss

8. The Branch/L/CI officer n11l.

(1) Joep "b10f, Branch/l Informed on CI rovulrements,

obnortunities and developments affecting his branch.

(2). KeeD FI Deputy, it Division and Deputy Oblof, CI Stall,

and the lattor's appointed stall ropresontatives (Victor

Wallen,

and Birch O'Neal), Inforted

on CI mattore in which they have an agroad interest (see below).

(3) Direct assatany: CI personnel in performance of those jobs

relating to the responalbilitles cited below.

(4) Carry out such other tanks which my be austgnod to him by

Chiof, Branch/H.

The senlor CI Officer and Individual section officers designated

by him will accomplish the followings

(1) Fanillarise Changelves with loctod Branch and CI Staff

Indord ansets and with deulgnated branch and divison

personnel pertinent to their responsibilities in order to

affectivoly exploit these assets and to coordinate work on

CI. operations with the appropriate persons.

(2) Fantliarize themsalres with current CI overations affecting

Cuba which are directed by Branch/l, by CI Staff, and/or by

Wh Division with the objoctire of assuning responsibility

for these.

(3) Plan, coordinato, Initiato and conduct CI operations not

speclfleally asslgned.to

or Birch O'Neal of CI

Staff.

SEGRET

---

## Page 48

13-00000

- 4 .

(4) F'ropare draft CI requirements for FI/D analysts (accomplished).

In addition, prepare or locate and forward to other Branch/l

officers nertinent CI requirements and operational guidance

panera pertinent to them officers' assigned reaponsibilition.

(To date, I have forvarded my own study on "Utilization of

Elle Orcups in Clandestine Oper tons" to jerry Droller.)

(5) Prepare an operational sunray forat for use by operations

officers revlewing cases (aeconoll shed).

(6) Prepare a defector register format cary (accomplished) and

organize and maintain a register of defectors.

(7) Explolt certain research and operational support assets of the

Clandestine Services in order to help all branch/4 sectiona

In the achievement of their objectives. lo this end, one

analyut vill work on matariale controlled by CI Staff.

(8) Iranino current operations and/ or programs in the fI and

CA flolde In order to ensure that CI opnortunities are fully

exploitod and to Identity operational security threate and

to recommend sound courses of action which will prevent or

counter such threats.

b. CI Stalf condonents feltod in each instance) will have the followine

responsibilities:

(1) Chiof, SiD, CI Staff: iction responsibility for penetration

and double agent operations agalnat Cuban Intelligence and

Security Services at home and abroad (as agroed to by Chief,

tH LAvision and Deputy Chief, (I Staff). Coordination wili

be effected with WH/h/Ci and all traffic will be released by

SZOMET

---

## Page 49

13-00000

(2)

Deouty hiof, Ili, CI Staffs detion responsibility for

penetration of Cuban Communist Party va third countried,

usdng. Cubans as agents (as agrood to by Chlef, ll DIviolon

and Deputy Chief, (I Staff), Coordination will be effected

with wh/l/CI and all traffse vill be released by ii/4.

(3) Victor Wallen, Operationa Division, CI Staff: Responsibility

for comoiling recorda and studies on Cuban Intelligence and

Security Services. To this end, Ictor wallen wills

(a) Frepare and maintain a briefing notebook on Cuban

• Intalligence and Security Services (accomplished).

(b) Prepare a gulde for serening ii/V/Reports personality

cards and other record assets in order to identify mus-

pect persons alding or abetting Cuban clandestine aetle

vitos (accomplishod).

(e) Prepare liste of suspect persons and maintain these

lista on a ourrent badla for exploitation by all Branch/4

sectlans and other igency connonents with operationed

Interest. (Initial lists have been preperod in 13 books).

(d) Prepare or assemble CI reuirements, as requested, which

pertain to the maintenance of CI actebooks on the Cuban

services. (Initial requirenents have ben drawn up for

Ernie Sparks use.)

(4) Deputy Chief, CI/ICG: Pes.onslblllty for compiling recorde

and studies on Cuban Communist Farty. To this end, question-

naires have been arenared for Agency officers assigned the

task of Interrozating persons k'owledgeable of Cuban Cormunist

Party persornel and activities.

---

## Page 50

13-00000

- 6 .

(5) Wi/FI 1ll prepare studios of Cisino subversive activitios

abroad.

3. DEVELOPMENTAL PHASE

1. Erincipal Objectire: To advance our knowledge of opposition services

and to detelop a security service for the Cuvan Govemment in exile.

2. Operational Taskes

• WH/L/CIs During this second phase, i/W/CI personnel w111:

(1) Screen overational correspondence and eable traffic for leada

to CI operations against the Cuban Intelligence and Security

Services and the Cuban Communist Party and forward pertinent

leads and CI Information to apropriate CI Staff component

and/or authorised security officers of agencies of US.

Intelligence community.

(2) In coordination vita Politioal Action Section of Il/l, outlina

an organisation for a security Intelligence service for the

Cuban Government 12 Idle and 11st 1t8 funotions In detail.

(3) Continue and/or complete all tasks cited in Phase I.

(4) Staff the FOB with two operations officers and one analyst

to perfora those functions necessary to the Initiation and

conduct of secure CI o erations and CI pastection ictivities.

bo

CI Staffs The SIO, INQ, and OPS/WH, a8 Indicatod, will earry out

the following aoti ities!

(1) Revise the notebook on Cuban Intelligence and Security S-rvices

as required (OPS/MI).

(2) Prevare organizati nal studles and Ulacklists of Cuban Intelli-

gened and sourlty scoticespersonnel, and black lista os

---

## Page 51

13-00000

• 1.

thres categories of sensitivity for use by the agency, by

desgnated members of the Unitod States Intelligence community,

and by authorized components of the Cuban Govurnment-12-Bdle.

(OPS/EI)

(3)

Revise linta of suspect persons as required. (OPS/WH)

(4)

Prepare special studies on Cuban Intelligence and Security

Services and on the Cubm Cormunist Party and other groups and

organtiatione active ln the Carlbbean area, as required. (OIS/WH)

c. WH/FI w1ll continue studios of CASTRO subrerifve activities abroad.

VI. COOFDINATION

Coordination en CI operations and on operationnl mpport sotivitien

which Involre Wi/II, CI Stuff and la/War will be ulfocted by sendor CI

officer of lll/4. Communeations on these matters all be by telephone

and/or personal meetings. CI aspects of lE/WFI and CA operations u111 be

discussed by appropriate suction officers and the senfor cI alficer or the

Lattor's designates.

SEGRET

---

## Page 52

13-00000

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PLAN FOR AN FRD SECURITY SERVICE

!.:

prepared lie 'a on

jert

TAB B

I. HISSION

To select, assess, organize, train on- the job and support FRO

personnel for a security service capable of protecting the Fio,

Its personnel, Installations, secrets and activitles fron sabotage,

subversion and espionage.

II. BOFERONCES

A. Projeot Operational Plan

B. Project Political Action Flan

C. Project Counterintelligence Plan

D. Project Counterintelligence Budget for Finoal lear 1961

III. CONCERT OF OPERATION

It 1o essential that the Agency create an aggressive service for

FRD Project activities. Since there is no certainty that the leaders

of the FRD will achieve and hold responsible positions in a new

Goverment of Cuba, and since there in an overpresent threat that

political or operational flaps may destroy the FRD as an effective

Project Instrument, 1t 19 essential that the Agency's role In creating

an FRD security service be carried out under cover of the BENDER CARR

group. It is also essential that the leaders as well as rank and file

members of the FRD pay more than l1p service to the requirements of

an effective security apparatus, even though these reguirements dictate

a need for major changes in the nodus operandt of individual members.

To this end the BENDER CARR group must direct the IRD to accept, 1a

return for its support, controls and limitations which must be imposed

by the security service 1f operational security la to be achloved.

The Agency's objectives in establishing and supporting a security

service for the FRD are:

A. To protect its operational interests in the FRis and

B. To acquire counterintelligence information through participation

1n FRO operational security activitles.

The security service of the FRD will have as its objectives:

A. Screening all personnel holding significant FW positions;

Bo Screening new adherants to the FRD;

---

## Page 53

13-00000

•2-

C. Maintaining pertinent file information on FRI personnel,

D. Maintaining physical seourity of FRD Installations;

E. Staffing FRI debriefing centers,

I. Enforcing personnel socurity regulationes

G. Indootrinating FRD members on personal security;

H. Monitoring malcontents; and

I. loquiring both positive and counterintelligence information.

To butld a security service for the IRD capable of attaining Agency

and FRD objectives, It 18 necessary for the Agendy:

A. To supervise the seleotion, assessment and training of

eight candidatesy

B. To Identify and select secure office sites in Mians, New York,

Washington and Mesdoo City, and to procure a secure safabouse

training site in Mandy .

C. To create an organization whiah can fulfill anaigned seourity

rumotion.

Do To supervise the training of thirty-two additional candidates

to staff the organization,

I. To support the organisation through the BENDER-CARR group by

providing. sanitised record data, speaial training, financial

backing, and, at need, operational faallities, and

' To auperviue through the BENDEr CARi group the organization'

lay-to-day activities.

To implement the plan for an FRD security service, BENLER CARR repre-

sentatives in Medco City, Miant, washington and New Iork will be

briefed on the plan for an FRI security service. The Chief, FRD/Intel-

ligence and Security Subcomnittee, will be directed by BENDER to select

seven officers to be processed for jobs with the service. Processing

will include medical examination, polygraph, and paychological assesment

of the candidates. They will later be briefed on the objectives and

functions of the security service by a representative of the BENLER CARR

group. They will be trained on-the-job by a Chilean ex-police officer

who will be recommended to the FRI by the BENLER CARR group. The

training will cover subjects pertinent to the service's day-to-day

---

## Page 54

13-00000

security responsibilities as spelled out in the organizational plen.

The FRi security components In Mexico City, Washington and New Jork

sill be initially assigned one officer each from the first group of

•ight candidates. 'The remeining five candidates will be assigned to

Kiami. Of those candidates subsequently trained for the seourity

service, two additional men will be assigned to washingtong six to

New Jork; als to Morico Citys and eighteen to Miami.

OF GANIZATION

The organisational struoture of the IRD security service and of the

Agency's related support atruoture are outlined in Attachment "A";

the facilitles and personnel required to staff and upport these

structures are discussed below:

Ao Facilities

1. Seourity office altes in Mexdoo City, Mant, Washington

and New York. (These will be seleoted by the Office of

Securitys the Office of Security will Identity these

mites to the BENDER GARR group, which in turn will direct

their use by appropriate FRD componante.)

2. A training alte will be selected In Klans ly the OIFICO Of

Soourity and identified to the BENDER-CARR group, which

In turz will recommend it to the Chief, FRD/ Intell1gence

and Security Suboommittee.

3. One four-drawer safe will be aoquired by the Offios of

Seourity for une in ench offlo site in the above named

do Appropriato office supplies will be assembled by the FRD

component in each alte.

B. Torelen Personnel

lo A Chilean police officer has been selected and recruited

as training officer for the security service. The bEiDER

CARR group will recommend him to the FRI for thie job as an

Indildual who, in 1ts experience, 1a beat suited for the

Job, and as one who 18 most acceptable to the BENDER CARR

organization.

---

## Page 55

13-00000

20 The BENDeR GARR group will direot Chief, FRD/ Intelligence

and Security Subcamittee, to Immediately select seven

officers for processing and training prior to assignment

In the F''D security servoe. Later, thirty-tro additiona

offloers will be saleoted for processing and training.

Co Staff Personnal

Lo BUNDER CARR representatives will deal directly with Chief,

IRD/Intelligence and Securfty Subocunittee, In all mattere

pertaining to the security servloe.

2o Project CI offfoers will provide through BENDER CARR

roprasentatives all advice, guidance and support to the

security service and 1te chief.

Vo PHASINO

A. Breparatory Phase (25 Alpuat - 15 September) :

lo Brimary Oblectirai

To implement the plan for the security sarloe ly seleoting.

nosensing and training an initial andre of aight officero,

Including chief of the proposed service.

2. seacational Traiter

A. Advise BENDER CARR representatives In Meadoo City, Miams,

Hashington in how lork, by dispatch were appropriate,

before 26 August, of the Agenoy's plan and objeot val

regarding an FID security servloe.

Do

Advise Chief, IRD/Intelligence and Security Suboo nittee,

through BENDER, to seleot seven officers to participate

with bin In processing and training for assignent to

the FRI security service.

C. Procure from each candidate a complete PHS, a certification

of health dated this your, and three letters of recomendation

from as many FRD sponsors.

do Arrange for polygraph examination of candidates through

the Project security office.

Prooure through the Project security offioe an appropriate

training site in the Mani area vhich vill accommodate a

mInima of aight trainees and an Instructor.

---

## Page 56

13-00000

I. Assign trainer to Miami after BENDER goto concurrence

of Chief, FRD/ Intelligence and Secursty Suboommittee.

Bo Arrange for Projeot CI officer in Miant to brief trainer

on his ass goment

Do Quarter trainer in training aito.

Lo Advine FRD representative to purchase minime offioe

mupplies fron liat to be provided by the Projeot CI

of110ar.

j. Provide trainer with a eurrioulu and a training sohedule

which encompan on-the job applioation of teohniques and

Deals.

ko Discuss with Chief, FRD/Intelligenon and Seourity Sub

ooumittee, the organisation and funotions of the proposed

noourity service.

Lo Initiato training of eight candidates (Including Chief

of the servion) and procousing of others.

=. Get nigned necrocy agreement and loyalty onth from

ench student.

Do Identity and assess (for rearuitment) potential agent

candidaten as Agency controlled nouroes.

B. Devaloment Bhales (26 - 30 Septeaber)

d. Balmory 0010011791

To build the nourity servioo in a way which will able 1t

to perform 1tu assigned functiona.

2. Perational Talker

do Assign trainees to FRD components In the cities naned above.

b. Complote processing of remaining candidates.

c. Procure secure offico sitos in the citles naned above

or check the sites previoualy selected.

do Initiato training of remaining candidates.

---

## Page 57

13-00000

• Aotivato a recorda center in Miani and provide 1t

with sanitized reoord data.

" forward physical security plan and phynical security

regulations to Chief, IRD/Intelligence and Securlty

subcommittee, through BENDER.

go Forward operational security regulations for security

service to Chief, through BENDER.

do For a one to cleave po code too, or toa

Chief, through BENDER.

1. Give remaining trainees thair socurity service assigments.

jo Recrult candidates selected in Preparatory Phase.

Go Astion Phase (30 September on) &

1. Brimary Oblastirai

To 1dentlty and oontein rabid CASTROITES, Cuben Comunists,

members of the Cuban Spourity Serrioes, and Orbit espionage

and sabotage persomel.

2. Recational Tankar

=. Move the seourity apparatus Into Oube with the FRD.

Do Provide IRD seourity servioe idth black liate and

reoord data pertinent to the above objeotive.

c. Monitor PRD seourity aotivities through the BENDER CARR

groupe.

D. Consolidation PhaBel

1. Prinary Oblective:

To direct the FRI security sertice in ite efforts to maintain

public security and to contain foreign services activities.

2. Operational Taske!

a Roquest eating security unita in the country to stay

on the job and to protect arn supplies, record asseta,

and security force faollities.

---

## Page 58

13-00000

._..

bo Continue to funnel sanitized arrest I1ats affecting

CASTRO security personnel to the FRD.

do. Monitor FRD seourity service activities in Cuba.

VI. SOORDINATION

The above plan will be coordinated vith the Political Action,

FI, and Support Sections of the Project.

VII. SUPPORT

See

SUPPORT ANNEXES.

---

## Page 59

13-00000

FOR FUTURE

( present)

JABS

20 Aprll 1961

8 Ca Progran for MAT Project

lo 00900880098

To adl to

ada de assactinee, operarsons ent

C

Tour

tel

1096. I to antletp

te le antlelanted that other

endidates

for double aant operalLon ill be santiesed

1n the senten their exploitation vill be coordinated vie

the toleral Dural ol Instiention.

P.: Do liMpport und direr No AMOr llleurs and apate mon in

Osbo, in thn colleerson el Intellignace port imme to Projet

ie, a fu the misfilm el mel other comers nesse

lamonza salet asy De donned vilhin thair conpotence

So To latrodus Into Cuba unilaterally comtrolled counter

8o to Intonally the stoject a commundor Party pañatration

lo To locrease countaritalligance operations run into Cuba

In conjunction mies 1saiaon services of Palendly commertes.

•To countes the copicage, subverdius and dictase operation.

¿dracted by the Castro services agalast othe: States vichlo

the Wastorn Bensspbare.: Milo to be done la confumetion mea

sha services of those contries mith saleh ve malutal

11a1900.

---

## Page 60

13-00000

ANOT SECUTISY SETULOR! TDA AlT COmpleS Le rAid = CE 91

MET TRIT ANd CATCal perSOnnel, SA AMPASTO (DeCUrItY

commeredal and ranching eireles la Cuda), also located 1n

In Agenty-cent rolled Commiet Party peRstralion apart

located in Havana.

so An Apery ednero lied atone nich encame lo leftlot an

malet esteles in the Hartera Healsphero, son la Mer

Toot CAty.

An sure emildate vith necess to engimering eireles 1n

Mans, ma olll ho svallable for ansioment la Cuba la

sume of tale your.

Arlerate, La safety a cases a dels or a tale?

a Angority of ston aru Aruy lefeers, and Ladlented

com, Althort the rebellion me eruched before

1e could eda

thats amittanto. Is my le estuned that son of trase people

an 811l villas to coeperate and my be recruised lor the

purpore of Curlenins Information mn dented un and posesaly for

partoraled estrala operational funer lons nuch an entabllehles

ANOT-S4), ChINe eMpERInE LIVe IndiCAted 1lllnfhess to cooperato.

The saluntry commander agreed to try to take ise bille und the

marty endat school. Armulas that he had that expability, 1t

may be further amund that he could meraft agents and lafort

at there bares.

ochor pouthlo assora of chlo type imelude the

In Plear del Rlo and the l

Banta ClArA, LAB. Villas Provlace.

In addition me um on dead a llot of potemtinl defeeross no live

phone elatilustoment with CASTRO, and no have bees approached

bert nho have mos pot doelarad phanelves. It la possible that the

tura di eventa say han belgtteded their diell li lost; Ee be

nort tryles to reerule iber at cale eire.

---

## Page 61

13-00000

ACT-LUBLeS Relatlonshir. The Agency mart recogain tbe

POBOLELNLET Of strALISE fuelLass becaure of the fallure of

the tmastol, It la belloved that the Arenty repropontative

1a Man vill to sale, lemo of his escallest personal

relationship adts the Chel ol the ANoT service, to meintals

• artlestory worklas malationship.

the ovut chels pooleton secon mntemmble..

• gerton Cat a 1800ra o operatest a toelop

Amisdo Caba la vin of the incrand acurity manures Dales

implemented by the Cartro servion.

It the parentary eBeLs LuLde Cuse Mm probebly bees

nonprosired by Castro nocully counter manures tates at the

kimo ol she luvstol, loch of thees socto or sot mor Do

one tenno lal Straini Into Cute can corve to

all seen pome

BEARIS.

matroutlan

1 - 84/4163. ChraDo

---

## Page 62

13-00000

SEGRET

TAB

2)

Aps11 1908

DI CHE S/N09

riparas ot sha regaioni il is10s, itf4 do 10 1pr1l 1961, t0 sallento

S28.51

D

---

## Page 63

13-00000

T'C-LASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, Task Force

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1. Deputy Director

(Plans)

2.

MI.

Elder for DCI

3.

ER- fa

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

NO

DATE

10 July 1962

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom..

Draw a line across column ofter each comment.)

FFICER

it

Hood

10.

11.

12.

13.

EYES ONLY

SEOZZY

BY, HAND

14.

15.

FORA

FORE So 610 USE RENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

180151

INTERNAL

ISE ONLI

GROUP 1

Excluded trom automatic

deungrading and

_ easification

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 64

13-00000

LILD CI

20162-4797

10 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR :

THROUGH:

SUBJECT:

Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy. Director (Plans) ut

Juana (Juanita) CASTRO Ruz

1. ACTION: None. This memorandum is for your informa-

tion.

2.

In connection with Task Force Wefforts to split the

Cuban leadership, some time ago we targeted Juana Castro Ruz,

half-sister of Fidel and Raul Castro Ruz.

A number of reports

have been received indicating that Juana Castro Ruz opposed

the strong communist nature of the Cuban regime and was

prepared, at least to some extent, to cooperate with

anti-

regime elements. In May 1962 we reestablished contact with and

Jand a long time personal

friend of Juana Castro Ruz.

On 11 June 1962, on our instructions. I

proceeded to Havana where she maintained frequent contact

with Juana Castro Ruz and other prominent Cuban leaders until

1 July 1962.

She discussed. the current regime quite frankly

with

Juana Castro Ruz and, according to

she

obtained Juana's agreement to provide intelligence on the

Cuban political leadership and to work against the Cuban

communist regime, short of engaging in activity which might

result in direct personal harm to her brothers Raul and Fidel.

According to

Juana has agreed to proceed to

Mexico or the United States in this connection and return to

Cuba after discussions

with "the Americans"

4. We are making the necessary arrangements with

to have Juana Castro Ruz proceed

to Mexico as

soon as possible in order that we may attempt a direct re-

cruitment.

You will be kept advised of any future develop-

ments of importance in this case.

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

C/ TFW

SEC

?.?

4UL9

1..

Excluded le

---

## Page 65

13-0000.0

UNCLASSIFIED

IN ICKNAL

USE ONLY E, VIE

O: QIFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Executive Hegistr

61-310

FROM:

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

1317 Barton Hall

TO: (Officer designation, room number, end

DATE

building)

1.

DDCI

203 Admin. Building

2.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER"

INMALS

admintele

NO.

DATE

10 January 1962

COMMENTS (Number soch comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Drem o line across column after doch comment.)

orig to DDCJ-1/13/i2

4.

10.

11.

12.

13.

15.

FORE So 610 USE PREMOUS

SECRET

C CONFIDENTIAL ONES

180085

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 66

13-00000

5605>3

801F-2-0178

17715-62-0173

Executive Regisiry

67 - 3,0

10 Jarmary 1962

MEMORANDUM FORs Deputy Director (Support)

SUBJECT

& ProjeEs SMATE

osamandation approved by the Pread dent

Angust 1961, subjocte covert Antle

Progrim Againat Caba

O/to femorandan to DOI, Sabjeets Aotien

with rospect to the Agenoy lenerve for

Contingency held by the Surem of the

Badget, approved by DCI 19 Ootober 1961

the referinces alted antabliehnd the current fart

stivity and obtainal fando 11 the anount el 85,36 m12310mm

to eperate the project durles the perled 1 Jely - 1I December

2901.

lo As not ferth 1s paragraph four of referos " 11

Ln intendod that the finanoial and audit roguiranato es thi

profort do MeTlArLEad do the extent posalble constorent 111a

puretional rope remente.

3o. In the Project Anthority, refernos "a, en l angurt

19ol, and 1a mbsequent dineusions, the Pronident approved

covert operations ineleding the finding el vardous persons,

groups, or sotlities, Cubes and non-tubas, unlah, In var

opinion, mey be able to navanoe the oner all objectives of

These Individuals, groups, and notivities are and

mall be miny and varied.

In many instances ve will be able

to exeroine little or no control over the funda, materiel.

arms, or equipment fiven such entities nor receive my ruitable

accounting Iron then.

SACET

---

## Page 67

13-00000

10% 1

a..:

L. I have, therefore, nuthorized the Deputy Director (Plans)

so pass to such persons, groups and actiritles, much MAID monies,

o mupport such persons, groups me acuntles me Deputy birecto

Plan 1s mthoried to delegate thin authority to the 0OP DIP, th

Chief, Hestern Headophere DiTision, the Chlor, HiM, and Orles,

diNAVE, as he my darise.

5. Junds advanoed In sooordance with this euthority shall be

that, with respect to activities not controlled of addristered

ortifloations by the parson passing finda to the activity my be

accepted as final nooomting mhen approved by an offlotal dastgrated

abore. such certifientions hall state the amount passed, date, and

general purpose of the payment, and that further accounting 10 not

prectial.

During the Project development, writing of sub projeet

as net forth in paragriph four of reference "b vill be deferred.

tation ten spoctile projecte evolve us determined by the Deputy

Direotor (Plann). With the exception of the notiviidee cited

1s partripha three and fear above, notivities uiet in the opinion

of the Daputy Direter (Plans) lend themalves to regelirination

thronet aduindatrative plans or flecal assess M1ll be to doca-

mented.

• mis antheriT does not amend regulatory authoritle

» rowpoet to edualatretive tters covering Agency personnel

SIGNED

JODI A. NO CONE

Director

coricurs

15/

Corp troller

Date

12 2W47

CCa

DoCh

DIP

DIS

Comptroller

c/ Audit staff

DDE"

Date 1:

---

## Page 68

13-00000

-

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PRO.

POSED

TO

chief, «: LIvision

FROM

Chief of Rare, d: liz

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKE: FOR INGEXING

NO: CITING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALISEC

i HEACG-ARTERS DESK

LAA TOGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM.

PLISHED

ACTION REGRET PERCE*

Action loquireds for inforation ard files

Following 1s a brief surnary of JuAinturiSt current assets in the

Target Area (CuBA) &

Do A-CT-3118 Subject 1s a sourco of operational Intelligeace 1n Fabana.

tie are raintaining contact via Sio

subject bad & WIT set, cached 1t

and Do longer bas access to 1t. A'"YI has been Instricted to deliver

another one to him.

Do ASCT-181 Subject 18 a source of operaticoal intellijence in Uriento

Irovince.

in are in contact alth subject via a cutout at the Guantanamo

Naval 3ase.

• NET 10 20 0 200 1 00 5 0 0 1a ta an /

They provide

de

subject 18 an A IT sub sOurce in Minar del Rio.

subjec Iy carranty reorganising big arsets in that Province.

Subject 18 an AICT eub source In the Port

or Hababe,

1.

_1= n ACT 11w drop 1n Habana and 18 $1111 active.

& AnAr del tdo Portaca A'7 eub source and la active la Habens and

2o SHAVE TUD:SI current and future plans ars to continue to support and

direct the dating asorts 1t has 1n Cuba an outlined in paragraph I above, Moreover,

plans are now 1n motion for the following

2, Befiltrato, aither lesally of black,

nod

for farther

training and return to the target area

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

Isstributions

3 WHID

(CROSS REFERENCE TO "

22 My

61

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA 1639

MASSIFICATION

HEADOUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-503

ORIGINATING

E

---

## Page 69

13-00000

SECRET

VYOÄ- 1639

Do tocruit and asupaçoa ln un pear fature os at least tour other agente

to the tanet dion.

do triltrite 1407-68 for brainanz and retard so the targot erca. Plan lo

eleo to poorica dup Mura a trainod redso spaceton

sass of reorgiading both the ANOT and AMPAST

comples no folloiss

AMDT Le being o

and/of

• To mupport of oth Base ANAVE Hootion, We KinK Pection wl

Do tava/super ill contino 120 primary conson dre

lo The detection, Identifleation and neutralisaties of hostile litelligence

action.

Do isoriso security etroice on acerts, porential ajenta and asseto, and

Do Provide, Mith the secarity section of Base diATi, security checko on ODYCK,

overt palat l englis vich Crore ind subar eriarisations.

In adition de amy 5e..

Will contin: ie sepelop a alparaida so be used as an Abert come Mich van so see

In the rhop or to ad are dea SECRET Por or te 1081-000?

interment. Auth. Are 79

te she main source for til

---

