# 104-10119-10388

## Page 1

104-10119-10388

SECRET

25 April 1968

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR TES

RECORD:

SUBJECT:

KAPPES ,

George Michael

#C 218827

At the request of Mr. Fred Bucel of OS, a review was made of

Subject's file to determine 1f there 18 any Indication of an alleged

acquaintance between Subject and one DEBORD (phonetic). The Inquiry

originated with WH Division who called Mr. Bucel for Information because z7

of his past position with Project IMHAVE. Subject was approved as al

In January 1968. The Divicion had heard

& rumor that Subject was acquainted with one DEBORD (phonetic) who was

"close to GARRISON" (District Attorney Jim CARRISON of New Orleans).. A

review of Subject's OS file proved negative.

The undersigned also reviewed the security file (#C 241598) of

Lawrence I. LA BORDE whose son, Michael, furnished Information to

GARRISON. The results of this review were also negative.

(Copy of

summary on LA BORDE prepared for the GARRISON Case 18 attached).

The only similarity of information in the two files wnich mignt

be considered as a possibility only of such acquaintance 1e as followe:

Subject was employed as a small boat operator with Project MARC at

Key West, Florida from January to September 1961. Lawrence J. LA BORDE

was granted a Provisional Covert Security Approval in March 1961 for use

as a maritime asset for Project MATE In the Mient, Florida ares.

Mr. Bucci advised he would furnish the undersigned any additional

information that night develop that would Involve Subject in the GARRISON

Investigation.

Sarah K. Ha11

SR8/OS

Att. as Stated

16668-

GROOP 1

Exciuded from automalle

downgrading and

declassificalien

SERIET

---

## Page 2

'EGRET

20 Hoverber 1957

SUEDOI: LABORDE, Letrence a.

(see 1160 ERMING, Cerald Patrick)

ALLEGATION:

Lawrence J. LABORDE, 58

year old former fort Captain,

visited the Hew Orleans DCS

office, said he man an ex-CIA

employee and feared GARRISON

would subpoena bin. LABORDE'S

son, Michael H. LAPORDE, had

furaished GARRISOS inforwation.

May be & GARRISON provocation.

CIA CONNECTION:

LABORDE Was granted 6 Provisional

Covert Security Approval on 24 March 1961

for use aB a raritine asset for Project

JHATE. A CSA was deferred pending

receipt of additional bio date an

subject. On 24 Ayril 1962 cleurance

action was cancelled as Subject was

no longer of interest to Tri.

SOURCE:

Visit by Subfect to Hew

Orleine DCS offlee in Aisy 1957

and phoned Dos office In few

Orleans 1n September 1967.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject 'a file reflects little bio data and because of this

lack, & reguest for a (SA on 17 Mirch 1961 for use as a mritine asset

on Project SMArt lis deferred until receipt of furtber Inforartion.

A PCSA was granted on 24 Murch 1961 for assessment of Subject. On

24 April I962 the request for the CSA Was cancelled because he was of

no further Interest.

An FBI report of 23 May 1962 said Subject had contacted repre-

sentatives of tbe Cuban Revolutionary Council In Hew Orleans, hie home

tom; bud offered his services; and tild he had been running & boat

out of Key West aruguling Cubans and suns with the knowledge of CIA.

A Hant report of Jure 1962 disclosed that LABORDE had been

erplaje? by the U. S. Department of Agriculture In l'exico In 1947-1949

but was fired for

excessive drining, discharging unauthorizei firearms,

and non-support of dependent children.

The New Orleaas STATES-ITE of 23 July 1952 narel Subject as the

cource of bitterly ant1-CIA rersks eni an urticle in the DENVER: POST of

3 June 1982 also appeared to be based on staterenta fror LADORDE.

SEGRET

GHOUP 1

Excluced trem automalic

dangerating and

declassification

with

186- sinti

---

## Page 3

AFBI report of August 1962 stited that Subject had duped

certain persons into buying a schooser, the "Elole Riechart, " by

clatting that be and a crew would operute 1t for Cuban operations

which would be pald for by the t. s. Coverment, although, tbe

covernment could not openly achnouledge the support.

DETAILS:

When LABORDE vialted the Nev Orleans DOS OffICe On 1l May 196T,

he esid he feared that GARRISON vould subpoene him and said he was

the Des office to tell hin that to do. Subject's viait uns belleved

to be a provocation by GARHISON in an attempt to entrap CIA Into

advising subject to leave Louisiana.

this would bave buttressed

GARRISON's charge that CIA and the FBI are attempting to obstruct

the course of justice in New Orleans.

4.2.

SECRET

---

