# 104-10177-10244

## Page 1

104-10177-10244

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

• Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT OF COVERT ASSESHITE

Not to do a peo core does to trut to sure me betasa

I the Intaration provided on this Iniividual 18 desired, please contact th

ssessment and Svaluation Star. MS. extension 3249

Date Of Assessment: 3 June 1964

Education:

Name: Ricardo MORALES Navarrete

Date of Eirth: 14 June 1939

COMMENTS:

1, ler. Morales vas given group Intellectual tests ind Intervleved brderly.

on 3 June 1964:

2. Mr. Morales 18 of average Intellectual abiifty compared to otber

assessed Cubans. Me often gives

the impression of being brighter then he 18;

and he is looked up to by others on the team as being highly intelligent.

3. Nr. Morales says that 1t 1s difficult being a leader because of the

need' to get people working together. He seems to enjoy the responsibility,

sowever, and tries to run a democratic shop

His preferred method of handling

lisagreepests 1s to talk them out.

"We must be humeng and reason."

Additionally,

Mr • Morales seems to be fairly understanding of people, and he tries to put

himself In the place of others to understand their vlews. But he is not just

an arbitrator, for his 1s a forceful personality capable of exerting a good

deal of Influence on those arourd him.

Mr. Morales 1s & complex person.

Within a generaizy-IdeallotiC-and philosophical-nature.-he often. functions. asa

practical, realistic,

He identifies strongly with causes,

and when he was with

Castro. he was entirely with hin - In the G-2; now he 18

entirely essinst hin. Actually he first started In revolutionary activities

for the glazour and excitement, but his Involvenent quickly took on an Ideological

basis. Necessity and lack of alternatives also serve to keep hin Involved. Als

future, he says realistically, is very uncertain. He hasn't eny high level vocational

skiils; yet he must support his family. Our organization provides him the best

outlet for both his Ideological and financial neede.

Ho All In all, Mr. Morales Impresses us as an above average man for his

job, compared to other assessed Cubans•

SECRET

106

Assesanent and Evalustion Staff

Medical Stuff

201-285923

GASSE :

ERSTIO! EII 8.2189

did lil:::

---

