# 104-10221-10310

## Page 1

104-10221-10310

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, Special Affaire Brais

SECRET

PROCESSING

Can Note Innin•

chiol of station, JWAVE

SNEY TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

CHION PIQURLO PULLOD

Social ACtiNELon ReDOrE On JUWAVER RolatSonahip with AMCARBON-1

ACTION REQUIRED!

Paragráph 10

REFERENCES:

8.

WAVS 8981,

cated en Septembor 1902 i dads: 0-2

WAVE: 9160

03:9e 28 September 1063w40

4V489343,

dated 2: Octobor 1962 Stat

20R 40975 -

are ten 190e one tus

-Seen wac was taken to Septembor

1962

broch would not occur

sovoss ration which was

log carried out by the Idontity 2 relativo toscho lacosthat the

establtshment.o a

South Camput

so being, kept from the Yoncut

WAT

Stemmed

LONDUCKS

security restriculong which vero in so

tron the

mile the relattonshipwith AlCANDoN 2E

suences setton which had boon talem in a crisis

Identity

thor outabl 1shmont otra working rolatlonship with thes

As a matter of fact

on objectivo which Julive had alwya hoped to obtato

that AMAVE bo

contact the major South Florida

out a rotationship with there news

medla which would Insuro, that they did not. turn tho publicity:

spotlight on thong KUnARk activities in South Florida which might

come to their attention.

Thus, whon relationship was establishod

WItH ALICARDON 2,

tt was

might be ablo to use

carefully cultivated to ordor that Jivays

thio contact at the Idontity 3 an a meane of

achloving the objective of having a relationgbip with the Identity 3,

which would almultangously Insure tho securtty of JiAVE's operationg

and gIve JAwAVE

surfacing certain select propaganda stena.

outlet into the preas wbich could 'bo used for

in the period October to

(CONTINUED)

Attachments:

UsC

A - Five

B = Idontitlea

Newspaper Clippings

Distribution:

3 - Chiot, SA8, w/atte.

DATE TREe

'19 March 64

DISPATCH SYMOOL ANO PUMPEA

URGA -14781

FCATQUARTERS ME RUMDER

ATE DISPATCHI

'CROSS REICHENCE FO -

6POUP, 1.

68: 907: 10g-03$

CLASSIFiCATION

SECRET

207-

OFFICE

COS

a1 - RI Chrono

201 file

(0/c0s

1 - COS Chrono

ORIGINATING

OFFICER

TYPIST

Andrew K. REUTEMAN/vtp

COORDINATING

251

DATE

OFTICCA'S NAME

ESEC

тота 5a

960

TIRESIALL

S/JINAVE 38/

188 PRESOUR EDITION. REMATT FOR IN MONDO AT E USE R0) MAR ? I DEA

DUDLEY R, WILLINGS

RELEASING

UNTRY SENATUAL

---

## Page 2

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECART

UFGA - 14781

Decomer 1962, all el JEAVEs buglens with the identity 3

VIA ALCARDON -2.

In mid-cember 1962 MICAMON-2

nado tho surtention that lo: Introduce NiTEAN to

M:CAHDN-1

there to a brekup contact,

in the croat that

ANCAIION" were out of town or unavallable at nuch timen na

NEUTENAN airit roquire asslotance from tho

Identity 3,

hosted a lunchcog

MiCANION-2

lotol Columbug,

Mant Flortda, at wiich ABCAlLO: 2 Introduced

laurens: no roult or ug initiat moting on

12 Docembor 10G2

in operational rolattonstip bao dovcloped with;

ANCON?, and it to belloved. that this rolationot picontriluto.

to tho ful111 Incatrol the ovor all Juv planton In view o

thier pectal activitios report Is bolor submitted to cover the

Tolation hiP Fith ANCARION-1 durtag: the

por cod Locomber: 196-to - Narch 1964.

BRAKE OF DEFENCE, FOR DIAVENS NELIZIONCHET DITH ANCA DONE?

rovlowod tho

ground rules under which he lad boon cooporating

This rovlow was conductou for: NiCNION:1:0

In ordor that he nighe clorly undorstand tho framo of

roferenco alcb chould provelt to hia relationships with REUMAN.

In thio fovior, ALCARioN, pointo out tint it was the polley

of tho Identity 3 that it would tako no action which would

purposoly cabarrass RUBArk or ite South Florida gporattons:

a rosult,

iT any cabarrassing itons relativo

to KUDARK's operations

in South Plortun did como to the attention of the Identity 3, this

motorial would bo brought to RUThl'e immodiate attention.

ANCARDON -2 made it clons to MCArioN-I that such items should br

discusood with REUTSAN in a frank mannor.

In eduition, ACARIN?

endo the point that,

aftor no ltom was diecussed, ACARION-1

should follow REUTEN's sudanco reintive to how any particularly

ombarrassing iten night bo hindled by tho Idontlty 3, no that it

would not expoo kUniK operations and, at tho pano tino, mould

not jeopardize the Journalistic roputation of tho Idcntity. 3.

In addition, AlCARION-? pointed out

11 MICANCON-I brougbt

a potentially embarrissing iton to REUICAN's attention and

remedial action on the matter wns not taken by REUTRIN within

• rendonable period of timo,

then the Identity 3 would frel free

to expuse any ineptness on XUlius part.

ASICARDON 2 pointed

out that in return for this cooperation

from the Idontity 3;

REUTFIN had agreed that he would bo avnilablo for contrict by

telophone or periodic porpol meetings at which ANCARDON-T

and ANCARBON-2 could discuss brond trends and doyclopments to

Latin Aericon affairs.

ABCARION 2 advised ACNNON-l that this

arrangcmont did not moan that ANCARDOll-l could expect to obtain

my classified information from REUTICIAN.

The point was also

made that AlCARDOl-i should not press for tho obtaining of

classified information, but ho should ho alert to storing tips

which NUELd might furnish him on fast-bronking nows storios

ANICARDON-1 Indicated that ho understood tho framo of roference

which had been outlined by ACARBON-?.

This frano of roference

has provailed throughout JAVAVE's relationship with AlCARDON-l

during the period Decerbor 1902 to March 1964.

ANCARDON-1'S JOURNALISTIC CAREER.

ALICARDON- originally

started to work for to Identity 3 in 1957 on the City Desk,

and subsequently advanced from this assignmont to an assignment

which ontalled covering major political dovelopments in Florida.

At & later date, AlCARDON-I becane a feature writer for tho

Identity 3.

Then In July or August 1962,

ARCARDON - was made

the Identity 4.

This assignment was considerod to be a significant

VE PRICE NOTON

CLASBIFICATION

SECRET

PAGENO

CONTINUAT

---

## Page 3

SHITUN OF

DISPATCH®

SECRET

• UPGA-14701

pronotion for ANCArBON-l, and it roflected confidence to bin by

tho identity 3

manngonent.

ALCANTON 1

13 by no means an export

on Latin Amorica, but be is developing his knowlodge on the ares

and, at the momont, he fives ovory

Hong-term Latin American

inutention of wanting to boo

speciallet. Quilt has been questioned

AbOut ASCARION -1,

and he has Indicatod that ASCARION-I le renarded

lo tho Journaliotic

• kcon

trade as an oxtronoly likoable fellow who han

ning

but who lacks caportenco in

depth on Latin American

Attalra.

It to QuiLle Polaton that given an anpropriate lopse

of time,

noN win develop

nor can specialtate

into one of tho loadine Latip

work ins command of s

ANCARPONCT

aniel, ano ho 1n constontly attempting

tor mprove are Language

4io the old.

*devolopodied, harnoosed or cap ottot on...

ind, that hardoes haver long-tor potontiara

novspapormeo? totolligence of ticoro and lay entorcoment ofttcoro

tho othor bonda

pone ous sources to relyn, in ordor tint monuingru? evruncion.

could be made of

that intomation which ANCAlDON- bad passodt to

Ao"

s rogurt of theod occastoral sitsing tontifleations

of big nources, Sonde

non result of senora conversatione ta

ANCIDON T REUTENN has 100rnod that AICATION-1/3 dources Includo -

A o.

of the DRE.

Lute *PERNANDEZ Rocha (201-91600), decretary sonéral

b. Manolo *RAY Ritoro (201-239298), chief of JUNS.

Havana Times.

Carlos +10DD j LObo (201-264141) of the defunct

d. AUBIDDY-I (201-267437)

•. Aureliano *SANCUEZ Arango (201-010245), leader 6f tle AMA

Edmund LAnY of tho Hashington Newe Burosue

ASCARBON -1

regards this sourco as boing particularly

intorost ins,

In vlew.

the lact that Lend's drughter te a secrotary in the office of

Attorney Gonoral Robort KeNNaDY,

adrenturer.

Frank PIORINT (201-242256), free-lance pilot and

h. Eduardo *SUARE Riva, public relationa man for the unr.

1o. Luis MUNOZ Maria, governor of Puerto Rico.

J.. Juan *BOSCH Gavino (201-103272), former presidont of

the Doninican Republic.

*. Charles *KEELY of the Coploy Wire Service.

1. Jorgo *VOLSKY Kraialer (201-352252), an employeo of

USIA in Miami.

ALCARBON" is well aware of the fact that YOLSKY

1a a defacto stringor for Tad SZULC of the New York Times,

but this

doos not dotor AMCARBON-] fron attempting to exploit VOLStY as a

source of information.

FORN

8.00

dA@₽

500

U#E PArVIOUS EDITION.

CRASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

3,

---

## Page 4

MADATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

VPCA-14701

OPEIATIONAL SUPPONT.

to carry vut

On occaolos, AsCARDONal in used

certai operational support tasks.

In fuch Inntanco",

I'CARION- enkon bie inquirios or carrice out the required action

rithin the context of his normal Journaltatic activities.

-UNO Of ANCANION for operational support taske chinbler JUNAVE to

Inroess the Investirative

facilities of tho Identity

o-ples of how AMCARBON has beon uned in oporational support

canke are outitood bolow:

Andrew *ORDoNO-

in Mtant and vas clion routino CAC procesalog.

procose eg aro contatoed 1 N741-0085, detod 12 March 1063.

ARtor

beins folonsod by CAs, OrDONg na-Interytowed by tho Idontity 30 ,and

in woo of thin itory, JAve

tried o locito OboNg for debrictings Thio offord was not productiv

thUn AICARDON-SO ukod to locate ONDONOS ANCANTON d1d Jocate

ORDOSO In Houston, Toxan.

detaili

See VAVE-63076 dated 25 March 1063, for

In vncw-2553,

PLACECOLLLDR COFLOS BINDIN 01, the URD Splintor Group.

datod 1 Soptember 1903, Hondquarters surcosted tat

Went planton kroup as a regult of BANDIN ovorintlatod claimi

rolative to his faction invading Cuba. Iloadquartora! Intoront fr

discredities tuDy was atoo stimulated by the fact that apiNte

unresponsibo pubiteity stunte wore crustig problems for AMpuY-l

no a rocult of licadquartors" interest in thia mattor, Wurc had

a Lunchoon songton with ANCARBON on 24 Septembor 1003m at witch

ArCARDON-T way adviuod that the nANDiN laction of the wid was look

than accurato in ito cloins rclative to its actlvition in Cuba®

In vice of

MUTENAN succestod that

the Identily 3 mielt want

to soft poudlo any future war communiques which tho MiDiN faction

might relonio..

ABSCNIBON-1 stated that, lo view of Rettin's

connenta, tho

Teentity s would not only soft poddle,

but would

ignore tho BINDIN faction in the future.

Onco BANDIN was dincroditod

with ANCAREON -1,

the word was soon leaked by ACARDON-I to otber

nowspapermon that MNDIN was not a reliable sourco.

of thie action, the LANDIN group has recolved minimal modia coverage

in South Florida sinco September 19G3.

OPEILATIONE INTELLIGECE.

perlod february 1963

to Fobruary

TOGS,

INCARDON-T Tas Lurnished JUWAVE with oporational

Intelligenco as outlined below:

In HAVE 1836, datod 21 February 1963, ASCARBON-

roported.

that AMBLND-1 was back in Miani and was the objoct of

a great doal of proon intercot in view of MiDeD-l's colcaro from.

• Lavana prisod.

NSCANDON 1 also Indicated that AWBAND-I would

probably bo @ knowiedgenblo source on the current activities of tho

UR in Cuba.

This oporational intellifence uns most helpful in

terns of kooping Jawive intormed on ANDab-l'a movemente.

Subsequent

developmenta

rovealed that ANCARDON-1 could not contact MaDEND-t,

thus MWIND-l's roturn to tho Urited States did not cause the

mulllelty attr thint was Initially anticipated.

In WAVE 6170, dated 33 Narch 1963, AUCANBON-1

reported that the Identity 3 was attempting to rescarch a full

feature article on

the bay of Pigs InvasIOn.

The Intent of thie

artielo mao to furolab a recapitulation of

tho ontire tactical

situation.

In this connection, AlCARBONd polated out that he was

B-$0

4#* PRATIOUS EDITION.

CLASGIFICATION

BECRET

PAGENO.

CONTINUED

---

## Page 5

MINUATION UF

ISPATCH

UPGA -14781

Matt:

D.00

640)

530

thinking abouf exposing the sole of wland attorney Alex I. CAllsON,

residing 143 Curtiss Parkway.

Mant Springs, Florld,

• tho

Bay of Pire operation.

ANCARDON -1 elaird that, le CARION mire

of nny current intercet to tUrAN,

then the Identity 3 would

soft poddle the CILSON MAPO, REUTIAN AUVICON ACARTON-1 Liat

bo lind. no Interest 1a CAlLSON but knew of bim and mis of the

opinion that CARLSON uns a sound and honost atturncy.

Tho recolpt

of thia operational intellircico enabled

JaWAVE tO DriOr CARlION

on tho Idontity 3'a ovor-all intorest In tho rolo that. CAlISoN had

playod in tho Bay of Pigs Invasion.

This briefing, In turn

chabled CANI SON to moro adcquatoly preparo bingolf for a mooting

WitH ANCARION-L

Wutlo ARCARDON-l did attempt to pursue thie

Bay of Pick story, no povor dig put anythtus into print ee the tor

overtakon by othor developmonto before ANCANSON-I could fialh

big research.

TO WAVE 0904)

WAVE that

a0a July 1963, ANCARDON-I adviood

Mr. Trevor ABRISTER, in associato editortor the

Saturday Eventog Poot,. was In Miaml during July 1003 attempting

roboarch a story rogarding the possibility that stratogie

mingles fore hidden 10 Cuban caves.

This Information onablod

THAVE to oop Headqunrtore informed on congational-typo articlem

which aight be apportos rolativo to Soviet meatlos in Cuba:

BOVO JIWAVE big resumo of

In WAVE 4701, dated 20 Septomber 1003, ANCARTON -1

tho discusstons which he bad with.

AMBIDDY, at the Miamt Playboy Club on 19 Septombor 1063.

Informition wns useful in obtaining an inoight into what AuDINYl

was tolling. tho press.

In WAVE 5661, dated 10 October 1903, ANCAIION 1

roportod on a discussion

that ho had bnd on 10 Octobor 1063 with

AMBIDDY-l's public relations man.

Thia oporational intelligence

woeful in terms of keeping KUBARK

advisod as to what AlbIDDY-I's

roprosentativos vore tolling the outside world bout thoir

oporattonal actfulties.

SAWAVE about tho

recolved at the Identity 3 relative to so callod kullik

vessole which wero located in South Flaridn watere.

information alorted JiwivE to tho fact that pross scrutiny was

noing to ho directed toward the Identity 5.

Armed with this warn-

JAWAVE eng ablo to trike retion wnich mioinized the publicity

reporcussions fron a renowed press interest in the Idontity 5. •.

In HAVE 7G7I,

dated 16 November 1003, ASCARUON-1

roported to JulAVs tho fact that ho had receivod

a lottor from

Peru which

contalued an interesting operational lond to one

CArlOS MONTALVANO 1n Pupo, Poru.

This lend wis examined by

JESSAVE,

Headquarters and the Limi

This examination rovoalod

that the lottor wis written by a crackpot; thus, thero was no

rent operational potontial in this lead..

This incident did underscoro,

that NICARBON-I la willine to bring potentially sigaliicant

operational loads to JAWAVR's attention.

In HAVE 1614, dated 6 February 1964, ANCARDON -1

advisod JWAVE that he had received numerous telephone calls

Indicating that Armando Andros GUIlOLA Forte, who had defected

from a Cubun Lisbing vessel micht be an individunt who had previously

boen seen in litani during November or Ducembor 1963.

At tho samo

AUCARBON-1 polnted out that he was suspicious and thought

timo those telephone calls indicated that GuiRol was not a bons

fide defector, but mas either a GOC agent or & KUBARK plant.

was bolng used as a moans of creating an incident which sould

embarrass the GOC, as a result of their fishing boats ponetrating

VER PRIVIOUA EDITION.

CLANSIFICATION

SECRET

CoNTINUD

PADE NO.

5.

---

## Page 6

# 80

1401

59c8

Unitod States torritorial matern.

REUTSAN advined AUCARD 1

that KUluR had played no role in nounting a provocation oration

aralint tho Goc:

At tho same tine

REUTINIAN pointed out tbat

It was highly unlikoly that Curiold was a CoC ngent.

An a rebult

of this conversation, arrangerants were mado for JiAVE to check

out cortala sapocte of the GUIlOLA story.

Al tho bano time,.

ANCARION-l me provallod upon nut to writo a story which siaht

¡ond the pubile to apeculato on whether GuiROLA was an arcot or a

plant in a propaganda play denigned to ombarraos tho Got.

PROPAGANDA OUT IT.

ANCARDON-l has boon uned successfully,

during

to portod govorcury this roport, ag a propaganda cutlet

through which tom of doterent to kumaRk could be murlacco le

tho tro world pross.

10

EX o8 how ANCATION-I has been harbeneed

fold up outlined belower

ANCIAD L. The ANCrAB-I dofection story orfeinally

wurtaced in thon ans area on 13 October 1003 via the Diarto de

lan Anorican, hich played up an API Tolosso from Montovideo.

The APl: Montoyideo otory highlighted MCluB-l"" Intormatio

rolativo to coc activition in Urugury. the story, in the viare

de lao Anoricus, had an extreecl linitod Impact on Spanion rcader.

to usant aron, Al a cault,

it wis docidod; to do verter,

ot tenturo atorto on ANCRAD-l, pointing up tho fact that ANchis!.

wan typical of the voterans of tho Grunma oxpedition, who felt

they had teen botroyed by CASTRO and had boon relegated to punittons

of obneurtty once the rovolution had put CASTRO in power,

ASCALDON-

was briefod in dotall on the ALCRAß-l story,

and ho mao bluen in

opportunity to debrise ANCrAt under controlled condition to a

JunAve natobouso. Mitor comploting his dobriefing, AlCAti-l

vroto & sories of fonturo articles on MicrB-t.

The lirat article

in tho verton recolved front pago headlino play. Tho series of

articlen on MCK\B-l wore well writton,

and. thoy provided ar

escollent por for JMAVE to count a replay opcrution via other

propaganda asscts.

MICAREN-l's story on ANCRAB-l way picked ap

by UP], API and othore,

and tt was playod throuphout Latin Amrica.

The dotatla of thie

surfacing can be found In WAVF. 5820, dated

11 October 190J; WAVE

6092, dated 19 Octobor 1963; and, WAVE 5174,

dated 21 October 1903.

JUWAVE learned Hint when W. charfes Cheris

Charlch gnirfin Shrimp Boat Stora sons vent, to Cuba

On 26 February 19642

to reclaim tho histacked shrlap boat JOHNNY reb

they tound that

solect items wero misains fron tho bont when it was

it was bolloved that this information would nake a good

human intorost story which JUlAVE assoté could use to counter coc

propaganda claims that United states officials hnd stolee items

tho Cubon fishing bonts which had violatod United Stater

torritorial waters.

In view of this opinion, a steoring tip vas

givon to AMCANDON-I to have the Idcntity 3 ropresentative in

Key West intorvlow Mr. GRiPPIll. Thia intoryiow was carried out;

and in articlo outlining the pointe which wore of toterest to

JHAVE was publialied 1a the 27 February 1904 odition of the

Idontity 3.

INYC Story.

The March 1901 LAYC mooting In Santiago,

was not rocolving appropriate coverigo in the South florida

& result, REUTENAN contacted AMCARDON-1 on 5 warch

suggosted that the LAYC mooting wag a story whics the

Identity 3 should pursue.

AL'CARBON-I was grateful for this steering

he assigned the task of preparing the story on the Late

to one of the monbers of his stall.

A story on the Lafe was

subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Idcatity 3

COMMIENT: Copies of the articles cited in subparagrapha a through

• abova are attached for deadquartera intormation.

UOA PArVIOUE KITION.

CLAASIFICATION

SECBET

CONTINUEO

6.

---

## Page 7

EUN-ANIOL

POSI

ANUELLIGENCE.

Attempte have been mado. to

obtain disson:

no positivo intellience from AlCAlioN during

Do porters

racebathla report.

This attempt hag book concenily

neuccoseful

Masthat ACAkUON-l does not have a treat number of

Anorica who would fivo him necess to wortimilo.

approciably in advinco of the information appearing

in tho ovort press.

Ae a rosult, ANCAllON-l la unmally not

ahiro of

Insido dovolopmonta in

any batin

American country; connoguently,

ho 1u not a

worthwhile sourco of positive latolligence.

A8 в

mittor of fact;

ANCARDON-1 1a lcaa valunblo as a sourco

of positivo

Intolliyence thin most Journalistes

Tho 10 attributablo solo'y

to hin lnck off long standing contactein the Latin Amorican political

cony.

It 1s belloved that AMCARION 1 111 ult 1m tol Rovorcono

cote

whort comings

thug,

¿ No will, continue to attompt to harnons him fi

tho

colloction of poultive lotol: conco:

COUNT.

in the portod covored by this roport ALiCATION 1

has boon louneto bo straight for ard individual who lo honest,

cooporative and who undorstands the acod for security, Our

rolat lonship also

Indicaton that MCNWON lle an accurato roporter

Motormation which ho passco to KUllnk In y10r Of this,

JavE plane, to continuo to harneso MICARDON 11mrtho camo mannos

that ho hag book uncdin tho past. It le boltoved that our rola-

tonnhle with NICARDON-T cohances our blity to conduct. our

oporattonel misgion in a socuro banner.

aup tondo to mininzo the possibility that avAve ntght have difti-

chen de with the rodie outlote in the South Floride croa.

ronut of our continuing rolattonship with ANCARBON-1, a spocial

activitien report Will be forwarded at appropriate intorvals.

It le

requested that a 201 number be aesigned AMCARDON-1

and that JwAVR be edvised of the number.

END OF DISPATCI

FOAM

$3a

1801

USE PREvIOUS rOITION

CLAESIPICATION

SECRET

_compound

---

## Page 8

Libri in out Or

DISPATCH

SECBET.

MARCLAND

Soparato Cover Attachmer

D: t0 VFCA-11781

Identitios - 1 - Tho Miani Nows

2

3 - The Mlami Horald

ở - Tho Lint

DISTRIBUTION:

3

Ch1o1n

SAS

RI

Chrono

AMCARDON -1 201

1

- COS

Chrono

GRIDI

Escherite loca salanatie

8:218a ing and

ASSIFICATION

"PAGENO

---

