# 104-10120-10355

## Page 1

104-10120-10355

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do not Reprodued

13 July 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

24

1. On 30 June 1972, MI. Arnold I Parham, Federal:

Bureau of Investigation; inquised of the Acting Deputy Director of

Security (PS), MI. Leo Dunn, as to documents losuod by the Agency

to Everotte Howard Hunt, JT., In the alias Edward Joseph Hamilton

or any other allat. He mentioned specifically, al

Drivers

License; Massachusetts Auto Regiutration Formay

Card

and Insurance Polley.

24

2. I telephoned ad Duffy, TSD Security Officer, but he wasn't

in.

I ended up talking with Wesley M. Parcells, 12531, who checked

TSD files on documentation tamed in the alias "Hamiiton." This in

the only way the name is now listed on TSD'a records.. They have no

first name or middle initial. Their records "imply reflect that on two

occasions sometime between 1957 and 1964, alias documentation was

issued to someone in the name of "Hamilton." The requests are numbered

1005 and 2134 on the TSD Control Card. They do not cross-reference

alias names to true names, and could not any whether or not Subject wan

Sasued any other alias.

3. Office of Security records show that Subject was to mve beer

inaued, among the other iteme, 'y

Drivers License with a

Providence, Rhode Island, address. Mr. Parcella said it in possible

that this was issued, and also possible that he would have been lenued

Card and insurance policy. None of these would have

been backstopped. Mr. Parcelle said. it would have been difficult or

impossible to renew the

Driver. License because one

would have to show up for a test. (It has been the writer's experience

that thia was not necessarily true in past years.) Thel

10

Drivere License would have expired in two years. The

24

Card, while fake, would be "valid" indefinitely.

The insurance polley

would presumably expire at whatever date it bore.

?BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Subject might ever have been innued: Mr, Sterhfield haid that wHite

Division fley would not reflect information relating to any of Bubject ey

5. I next spoke to Mr. Willard Burke, Central Cover Stafl

=5122, who advlned that al

Driver. Ilcene and »

10L.

Auto Regiotration Form are two different items. He

checked hin records on Subject, and found, after pulling them from

Rotired Tiles, that there was nothing relative to Cover documentation

there. I then checked the fle myuel, junt to be sure. He la correct?

there in nothiny unable in the flle us regurds Cover document, or Cover

documentation of any lind, with the excepton of referencor to subjecte

State Department statur on varlous overseas tours and trips.

Frederick N. Evans

2/8R

---

