# 104-10510-10154

## Page 1

104-10510-10154

DISPATCH

Chact of Stolon, SUNiVE

kuw

Chlot. Western Heatsphere Darketou

C Return of Documents and bist of Birthat cor ANTIC Elle

Paragraph i

Roferencon:

B.

1.

Forwarded under soparato cover attachment à are the

replies rocolved in roforences from ANTIKI.

It is roquested

thnt thoso lotters

bo returned to AlTIKI for rotontion In

individual Subjoct files.

It 1s recommonded that AMTIKI assumo rospongbility

for revlowing the status of minor depondonte in ordor to

nutomatically terminate paymonts to those individuals who

become 21 years of ago.

This should be done on a regular

30-Jay basis since many of these depondonts

plisiblo for pavmont durin& 1907. A list of birthdates

Is forwrdod under separate

cover attachnont B to assist ANTIKI in monitoring this oper

Somo procedure should also be ostablishod by ANTIkI

for porlodically attomptine to ostablish proof of marriayon

contracted by dependonte.

3. A quarterly Station roport is requested on all

future payment torminations In ordor that leadquarter's

rocords may be maintained on a current bagis.

Distribution:

3 - COS/ JIMAVE

Attachmonts (USC):

A - Lettorg for

Roturn to ANTIKI

B - List of Birthdntes for ANTIKI

CROSS REFERDICE TO

DISPATEN SYNSOL AND MUMBER

-6328

CLASSIFICATION

&ECRET

OFFICE SIMBOL

DATE

WII/COG/M0

N3.r..0:

19-124-25/5

DATE

NOS FILE NUMBER

19-124-25/5

ORIGINATING

COORDINATING

ExT.

2463

OFFICER'S NAME

27 Decomber 1966

Distribution:

1 - WH/COG/ESEC

- WII/COG/NO

1 - RID

AN

DEST

BESTRACT A

rous 53

UAd PREVIOUS COITION

*** 1-80

RELEASiNG

OFFICE STRICA

c/wH/COG

DATE

1408

DISPATCH

---

