# 104-10213-10256

## Page 1

104-10213-10256

'..

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

• Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).

NW 53217 6/20/17

SECRET

25 Apr11 1977

SUBJECT:

ANTRUNK Operation

1. Description:

The proposal for this operation was presented to

CIA by Tad SZULC, via Kr. Hurwitch

Cuban Coordinator, in February 1963.

It allegedly originatec

with jorge VOLSKY and Dr. Yestor SORENO who referred to it

as the

"Leonardo Plan."

Its objective was to overthrow the

Cuban Government by means of a conspiracy among high-level

military and civilian leaders of the government culminating

in a coup d'etat which would oust both CASTRO and the

Communists

from power.

The CIA supported this activity and

encrypted it AMTRUNK.

The ASTRUNK cryptonym was changed to

AMSTEALER in the Spring of 1965, several additional

infiltration/exfiltration missions were attempted or

completed, and the project was terminated in late 1966 due

to security problems.

In retrospect, the activity appears

to have been

insecure and doomed to failure from its inception

primarily for

lack of compartmentatic, and loose talk on

the part of its principals.

2. Findings:

8.

UFGA 11375, dated 30 September 1963:

The wife of ASILEO-3 (Jose Ricardo RABEL Junez,

a JUVAVE Station asset directly involved in the AUTRUNK

Operation), reportedly nade direct contact with Fidel CASTRO

on 7 September 1963 at Santa Maria Beach, Cuba, in which

she asked CASTRO's permission for her and her childres to

leave Cuba to join AMLEO-3 in the U.S.

Ars. AMLEO-3

reportedly expressed fear that AMLEO-3 would find another

woman if she didn't join him.

CASTRO replied by asking

"do you consider yourself a burden to your husband?"

urs.

•- 1

545044993977

---

## Page 2

104-10213-10256

F. I

- 2 -

he calls you every day."

according to

AILEO- 3,

received on 14 September 1963. There is no copy of the

letter either in tle AMTRUNK Operational file or in ASLEO-3'g

dossier to confirm that statement.

/Comment:

defected to the U.S. in December 1962, imnediately became

a JIHAVE Station asset, and was used to screen names for

the ANTRUNK Operation.

He was terminated in July 1964,

reportedly due to conflict with JAWAVE Station for not

having exfiltrated his wife and children.

Cuba on his own in 1965, allegedly to exfiltrate his wife

and children, was arrested, sentenced to 30 years

imprisonment,

served two years, and was set free in July!

or August 1967.

There are two firm accusationg that he

wAS a CASTRO agent

as early as July 1963. /Comment: 1f

true,

it appears that AJLEO-3 could have been providing

CASTRO information on the ASTRUNK operation from its

inception.

statement

Also, it perhaps could account for CASTRO's

that AMLEO-3 called his wife in Cuba every day./

b. UFGA 11829, dated 18 October 1963:

A newspaper article on changing trends among

high-level personnel within the CASTRO Government, written

appeared in a major dally newspaper.

reportedly told a high-level U.S. Government official

that Dr. IRENO, the ATRUNK team leader,

was the source

A debriefing of SDRENO produced

Information at consideraole variance to that in SZULC's

article. Confronted with the article, MORENO admitted

talking to SZULC but denied that most

of the infornation

in the article was based on anything which MORENO had said.

The article created considerable furor in fashington, D.C.

/Comment:

specifics concerning the content of the article

and name of the paper in which it appeared were not cited

in the dispatch.

There is no copy of the article either

in the 'ASTRUNK operational file or in SZULC's dossier.

true, SZULC's article(s)

could have been used as a channel

for providing information to the Cuban Government, wittingly

or unwittingly.7

C. WAVE Cable 7300 (IN 58037) dated 9 November 1963:

Transmission of a One Way Voice Link radio

message $6 to the ASTRUNK's in Cuba on 9 Yovember 1963, asked

if they had developed any leads into the higher echelons

of the Rebel Army, and who at higher levels appeared to be

good prospects for recruitment.

It cited rumors that persons

aware train.

---

## Page 3

104-10213-10256

* .,

- 3 -

,7.

In top positions of the arny were dissatisfied to the point

that they

/Comment:

may have been thinking of plotting against Fidel.

There is no proof that the message came to the

attention of Fidel CASTRO. However, if the operation was

penetrated, as it appears

to have been, this information

could have reached bin.

1 5.3

d. MAVE Cable 9630 (IN 87039) dated 25 December 1963,

Report SunDer UG 4313:

The following information was contained in a

Secret Writing

message from AMTRUNK-9 (Modesto OROZCO) dated

6 November

December

1963.

postmarked 22 November, and received on 2

ANTRUNK-9 allegedly received the information

ANTRUNK-9 reported that during the

early part be soverter Fidel Fidel CASTRO Ruz, during the

course of a private conversation, expressed fear of the

possibility of "Commando Insurrections" which might take

place on a large scale in Cuba,

as the Cuban economy was such

that he could not maintain a state of military alert for a

long time.

He indicated that any prolonged period of military

alert might cause discontent among the troops,

a situation

which would be dangerous

and create irreparable consequences.

So as to negate this possibility, CASTRO was undertaking an

intensive propaganda caspaigo to give confidence to his troops

and to limit the occurrence of any internal uprising.

/ASTRUNK-9 made an unauthorized trip to Cuba following his

termination by JUWAVE Station. The files do not reflect

his subsequent whereabouts.7

€.

WAVE Cable 0952 (IN 03920) dated 23 January 1964:

In a debriefing of ANTRUNK-9 (Modesto OROZOO)

on 17 January 1964, he provided rather sensational statements

that the Government of Cuba was ready to fall at any moment,

that enormous quantities of

weapons were in Cuba,

and that

the Soviets were out to get Fidel. However, AMTRUNK-9 was

unable to substantiate such stories with sources, dates and

facts.

It was learned that Dr. JORENO planned to introduce

ABFTRUNK-9 to YOLSKY.

It was pointed out that SZULC,

personally or through VOLSKY, may obtain information

for a

sensational-type article such as he wrote last September /19637

following the SORENO interview.

Chris Hopkins

:: LAD/JFK Task For ce

Attachment: Addendum/References

ti a

c27:

!::

• .:

---

## Page 4

104-10213-10256

)

a.

b.

ADDENDUM

dated 30 September 1963, Operational

Progress Report on ANEEo-3, trom station JawAVE to

Headquarters, Special Affairs Staff.

AMTRUNK Operational folder 19-6-84/3, Folder 2,

Job # 68-496/16.

UFGA 11829, dated 18 October 1963, Progress Report

Filed in ASTRUNK Operational folder 19-6-84/3,

Folder 2, Job # 68-496/16.

1225

c.

WAVE Cable 7300 (IN 58037) dated 9 November 1963,

CIA radio message to ASTRUNK

agent in Cuba. Filed in ASTRUNK Project 19-6-84/3,

Folder 3, Job # 68-179/40.

d.

:

e.

He-duarte Folder 3

3, Job # 68-179/40.

WAVE Cable 0952 (IN 03920) dated 23 January 1964,

Operational

Folder S, Job # 68-496/16.

- .~

•

and.

1

---

## Page 5

104-10213-10256

..

то

DISPATCH

Ch1s1, Special 1ffalrg Staff

aUsSACITOn

PROCESSING

ACTION

MATTED PNE INORINE

X100 IT 0907990

CX7 2.4:619

CAN 1.D0E INCESINO

ГРОМ

Chief of Station, JHANVE

SANE Operational/TYPIC/AlLiO

Operational Prepress Report aLEC-a AmTRE

ACTION REQUIRED. INTRICE

ACT ICY REGUIRED: NODe; FYI

REFERENCES:

UFGA-10196, 6 August 1963

B. WAVE-4UE*L

3 septumber 1965 a ace deni

DFGN-2379,

6 .lugust 1903

-ad.

D. UFGA-7858, 25 February 1963 ji

÷ E:

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPHENTS

1.

This report will cover the period ju July 1963 turough

15 Septenber 1963 and 1s a follow-up report to refercace 1.

EFFORTS TO LEGALLY EXFILTRATE AMLEO-3 FAMILY FIGI CUBA

Since transnission of reference A to Headquarters several

developments occurred uhich effectivoly eliminated several alterato

solutions to the problem of the AULiO-3 fanily in Cuba.

alternate solutions that were ellainated, as found in paragraph

3 of reference A, #ero (a) "Haintain Status Quo as & Family

attempting Leave

Cuba via Offices of Swiss Erbassy as Part of the

AmerICan Repatriation Program"; (b) "Havo AMLüO3 Family

Mithdraw Papers From the Swisa Embassy and American Repatriation

Progras and Attempt Leavo Cuba as Normal Refugees ita Mexico

Or Spain"; and (e)

the MLEQ3 Family Caso Taken up fith the

GOC Through the 'Donovan' Channel for Possible Legal Exfiltration".

Elimination of the above alternates left only to solutions

that vere at all feasible; (c) "Have the AllXa-3 Fantly Take

Asylum 1n either the Uruguayan or Mexcan Embassies in Havana"

or (d) "Have the AHLED-3 Fanily Exfiltrated black in a Maritime

Operation by either a SUBARK or Independent Maritine Tean."

• Because of the inherent risk involved in a black oxfiltration,

it was decided that the lEos fandly should be put into

asylum in either the Uruguayan or jcxican embassies with all

possible speed.

(CONTI:TUED)

Distributiou:

3- Headquarters a/att USC

Attachnent: USC

Identities

jamie i ro

ental Than

Leashein

• CLASSIFIENTON

SECRE

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

19 Sept 6:1

DISPATCH SYMBOL NO GEP 3 U 1963

UFGA-11375

HEAOQUARTERS FLE NUMBER

19-6-75/3

19-6-84/3

-*3024442X 4495

---

## Page 6

104-10213-10256

....

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

UFGA-11375

FORN

To this end steps were initlated in on 24 Jul, 1963

to put the AlLEd 3 faully and AlLIa? 1nto asylus 1a the Mexican

Enbassy in Havana.

The AHLEQ-3 faRily and MEO? verO advised

via the MAlEE-l Oll channel on 4 August 1963 to preparo

themsolves for asylus and to await turthor orders via thu saro

KUBARE Station 1n Merico City, manunile, too: urgent

through its Mexican liaison channels to bave the icrican

Foreign Ministry obtain visas for the AMLZO3 fasily and

AHLEQ2; and then send mord to the lexican Sabassy in lavana,

Cube that the AMLEO-3 faully and AMLEO-2 should be granted agylum

wen they appeared at the Mexican Consulate under cover of

obtaising their visas.

The visa portion of the operation urg

Battalactarily completed and sotification of same vas sent into

the lexican Enbagsy in Heynna; but word re asglus for the

AMLBQ3 Ianily and AMLEQ? was not sent to the lexican embassy

duo to insecure commo chaznels and lack of trusted courlers, and

to date no secure method has yet been lound to notify the Mexican

Embrasy in Havans that asylum should be granted to the AbLEos.

4. An a result of the abore, rord ses sent to AliEs-1

VIa OIL on 11 Septenber requesting he detemine whether of not

Identity A rould be willing to act as intermediary to receive

the AKLEO-3 Ianily and AlLEQ? Into asylum at a specific tire

and date at the Mexican congulite. ASHBE-l asked for

clarification on the manner of approaching Identity A on the case

on 13 September via pouch, and more detaileu guidauce on the

matter vas sent to him via CHVl on 14 September.

A final reply

re possibilities for action via this channel is oxpected fros

AHFER-1 nonentarily.

I1 the Altek-l reply is lavorable, then

he vill be told to arrange the meeting at the Mexican consulate

botreen the AuLios and Identity A so that they cas be taken into

asylum by the Hesicans.

As noted in reference B, 1f the ALREE-l report is a

negative ono, then consideration

u1ll be given to having the

AMLEOB take

asylun in the Uruguayan Enbassy in Havana.

test case ut1li¿ing AUCANCK-3, nestiored in paragraph 5 i 01

reference B, is to be attempteu on or about 21 August 190J, and

1f this attempt at agylum is successful then arrangesents will

be sade to have the alLEcs enter the Uruguayan Invasay in the

ваше дарег.

Г.

As noted in paragraph 1 of refereace B, the wife

Of AHLSO-3 11nally made a direct contact vita ANTHlG-1 on 7

1 Septenber 1963, while he was at his Santa larla beach house,

¡ and appealed tou bia for perniasion to leave Cuba with bur

children and rejoin her husband All2O-3 1a the United States.

[On 14 Soptember 1963 AMLEO, recelved a letter fron his rife

giving nore details on the above secting.

The wife of AbLEQ-3

had been visiting the beach hone of a fally friend, situated

next to that of ALTHUG-l on Santa Maria beach, on a

daily basis

hoping to see AutHuG-l.

Finally, on T Septenber 1S65, she saw

hin suinning alone in the ocean and promptly sent into the vater,

Introdaced herself, and requested praission to taix to bia.

did. t 6066-1647.40.3

AHTHUt-1 granted ths permission, and during thelf conversation

Akriul nade it clear he would

not grant urs. ALIC 3 peinission

to depart Cuba at this tise, stating that the tie gas not

propitious due to the attacks and raids beiny carried out

against Cube, and that Urs. AilED-3 sould just have to valt.

HTS. AHLEG-3

then told him

she did not see thy he was holuing her

and her children responsible for what her husband dij; that she

feared her husband night forget her

and their children completely

11 the separation continued, and that 11 AMED-3 as left much

longer alone he rould find a roman to replace her..

ANTHUG - 1

replied by asking her "Do you consider yourself a burden to your

husband?"

The wife replied "It is

asked "But he calle you overy day, "Possible", and MaThUG 1 then

IFICATION

FAGE NO.

USE PRIVIOUS EDITION

CRET.

eoatomieg..

---

## Page 7

104-10213-10256

330

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GLASSIFICATION

BECRET

UFGA-11375

Later. during the convergation ANTHUG-1 asked

Mrg. AMLEO-3 11 her husband still nau the presentation Soviet

platol that he. had given hin 10 1961, add Urg. AiluO-3

Inforzed his that her husband bad taken it with hin then he

defected and asked 1UTHUG1 11 he vanted it returned to blo.

AsTHUG-l did noi reply to the question.

Later. on, nh1l0

discussing her conversation with AuTHUGl nith Identity B,

Identity B suggested to Urs. AlliO-3 that she request iato-3

to send the pistol back to ANTHUG-l via Ambassador LECULGA

at the United Rations, NYC.

Identity B added that the return

of the pistol aight help matters since tho lose of the pistol hai

been one of the things that bothered AutHut, ost Phen

AHLJO-3 defected.

(1.0. ATEQ3 bas noted that these special

presentation soviet pistols vere given by diriugl to probably

less than ten people in Cuba, and their presentation had a very

special seaning fOr ANTHUG-l

since tie reciplents vere supposei

to be bla very personal and close frienua.

AHLEO-3 clains

that not even AlLOUT-l had received one ci these special

presentation pistols Iron AYTHUG-1.) Consideration is being

gIven to ANTHUG l's request, 1f 1t rould sislat Sin. 1150-3

1n her efforts to leave Cuba, but for tre ilme bolas the pistol

Dill be hold by SUBArX.

8. ALTHUG-l also told Mrs. AHLSO-3 that ber husband had

stolen a llght plane when be fled and leplied (aitbough

does not so state directly) tbat he would like to see it

retursed.

The balance of lita. AHLiO3's lettor concerned ber

desire to leave Cuba, mentioned the necessiy for daness by both

she and her husband with no rich actions,

and without giving

any additional facts stated that her conversation with ALTHuGl

had bees a long one but that

i she could not get blo to nake

aDy prODiges re her departuro.

DEVELOPHENT OF OPERATIONAL LEADS TO DISAFFECTED CUBANS

9. Duriay the operational period one of AHLEO-3'8

operational leads, whos ho had written a report on for the

ALTRUNE PH operation', was recruited via the recently successful

ANTRUNS infiltration operation and fiven the crypt of AutruNa-1o.

ANIEO 3 alg0 screenod additional ANTRUNK leadg and LUTUBE

military loads during the period and was able to subuit

reports On BOne fOur lodividuals for these operations.

leads vere fed to him aired In with many other Cuban names.

ASILEO-3 1B presently preparing reports on PHS target studies

Major Felipe GUERRA Matos and Hajor Jorze SEGUERA,, Cuban

Ambassador to Algeria.

10. AULEQ-3 also a8sisted Is the handling Of AHLEO-5'8

fo during the perlod then she established direct telephonic

comunication with her husband lo Cuba, and tried to convince

his that she wanted to return to Cuba with her children,

but stipulated to A-5 that he would have to nect her in a third

country first and resolve their personal fanily problens.

AHLEQ 3 baby sat for the uifo duriog these calls,

since ge

only knew what day the calls would be coming in and never the

hour.

He also assisted Hrs. ANLEO-5 1n recording the last telepar

conversation she had with her husband.

In this same operation

AIILEO-3 also assisted the Caso Officer in the couversations

held with the nother of Allias while she was in the united

States,

although he was never aliored to establish direct

contact with

the nother. He had hoped that the nother of

ASLEQ5 would attempt to establisa contact on her own vith

AXLJO-3, but to MAVE Station knowledge she never attempted to do

80.

If she had, me sould have alloved lIa? to respond to hor

contact efforts (maintaining bis cover as being disassociated

WIth ODYORE).

11.

Duriag the period fraguentary Information has been

received from the nife of 1yLEC-3 (utilizing nicknames or other

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

USE P

IOUS COITION

8ECREII"

CONTINUED

3.

---

## Page 8

104-10213-10256

..

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLAMIPICATION

5 B C

BET

DISPATCH SYMAOL AND MUMALI

UNGA-11375

code phrases for individuals) indicating that Identity 8

has contlaued to be very helpful to hor by supplying

hor with blackarket lood, loaning her hor autonobile, and other-

wise assistlag hor with her problcas. Idantity B say

be

carrying out such actlong on a genuine friendship basia.

(aho has even boen denounced by the neighborhood defense

comaittee "as assisting gusanon"') or she may be bujing insuranco

for the future.

The posalbillty also exists that sh. 18 reaalning

a confidant of

Xrs. AHLEQ-3 on orders of ArTIlUG-l ar.: 18

reporting on all developrents to ANTlUG-l. In early September

1963 BauL PRIMBLLES (2U1-327902) arrived at Identity B'a

home for a visit shile HIB. AHLEO-3 sas present.

HI and Hrs.

PRIMBLUES Ignored the presence of Mrs. A-3 and did not speak

to hercubilo greeting Identity B. Because of this Identity B

promptly turned her back on hor visitors and diu not anaver

thes, continuing her conversation nith Hrs. AULED-3.

sir. and

Mra. PRIMALLES vere thrown into some confusior by this reception

and departed from the area.

12. MrB. AMLEQ-3 bas also mentioned that ÜNSNAFU-12

vag soBt kind

to her during her recent home leave in Cuba,

and sade it quite clear she vas anxious to get in touch mith

During the latter part of August Mra. 1-3 again

mentioned to her husband that UNSNAFU-12 had written ldentity

B from farls stating she was aurprised at not baving beard

STOR AHLEQ-3.

ATTITUDE, MORALB, AND PERFORMANCS OF AMLEO-3

13. Durlag the reporting period ATSO-3 has consistently

been cooperative with his WO and has maintained a good attitude

towards his work.

During the latter part of ligust 1963 AML8O-3

began to lose bis patience with tho slow progress in gotting

his wife into asylus, and began requesting pernission to return

to Cuba binself in order to exfiltrate his wife black. AlEO-3

became quite demanding in this regard and claimed that KUBARK's

time had rus out, and since he had salted pailently for alno

months he now felt it was his turn to try his luck. AlLEC-3

1s extremely confident of his oun ability in action situations

and operations and extensive argumentation was peoded to

persuade him that such a course of action rould be suicidal

for his oife and children and that his wisest course of action

mould be to give us additional time to bring the asylum operation

to a successful conclusion.

Because of AiLEO-3's faith in

higher authority, COS JAWAVE, AndreN E. REUTEHAN visited A'IIO-3

on 8 September 1963 for the purpose of convincing him that any

untlateral action on his part would only be counterproductivo

and playing right into ANTHUG-l's baods.

SUBARK's linited

connitrents to AMLEQ-3 vere also revleted along sith the history

of our actions to belp his vife and children leave Cuba legally.

After some frank exchanges of facts AULEO-3 was finally convinced

that the only productive course of action loft to him was to

continue to sweat out the asylum proposition and hope for tha

beat.

Absolutely no further commitments were nade to AuLEO-3

during these discussiong and alternate courses of action 11

the asylun atteupts fall were not discussed but instead left in

abeyance.

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT AND PLANNING

14. As prevIously sentioned in paragraph 13 of reference 1,

ANURO 3 vent to IRHETAL durine the period 26-30 July 1963 for

the purpose of obtaining a french visa for his allas

documentation.

AHLEO-3 successfully obtained the French visa

dur1og this trip, and his allas passport now contains valid visas

Ior travel to Spain and France.

SOC USE PREVIOUS EDITION

---

## Page 9

104-10213-10256

.*

B-11t

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRIT

DISPATCH BY

MBOL AMO MUMPTI

URGA - 11375

15.

HAVS Station regrotg that reference C has not been

anteered to dato.

In reply we can only stato that AuLEo-3

vas thoroughly briofed on the linitations of his altes docurontation

won said ducusontation vas issued to bin. Ho vas told that thu

credit card cucusents could never be used

for 1dent1f1cstlon or

credit purposes.

He had algo been warned to avold situationa

where he would be asked for positive identification, such as

renting a car, and by attempting to procuro a rental car 1n

ZRAZTAL he vas acting contrary to lostructions given to him

by bla NAVE CLO.

On XULLO-3'a returO to TAlI he maa castigated for

his actions, and again briefed on the limitations of bis allis

docusentation.

In order to strenction his allas documentation

an 1.D. card docunent idontifyisy din as an employedeof "Charles

S. Wilson Assoclated" has been 1sfired to his, as suggested by

(Chester D. DAISOLD 10 COnVerBati: IS With AlLiOS In TRUETAL.

In regard to pointa a and b 10 pu:irraph 2 of refririce C,

the KURIOT representative 1n HAVE Station states

tart

the

Florida

drIvera IIcense issued to Joseph 1. Reese Is a valis, backstopped

drivers license for actual use by the Subject and the address

& logitinate galehouse with backstopped rental cover.

Subject's

cover story vas that he recently soved to the tani area trou

New Orloans, Louislans (which city the Subject lived to for

several yearg and has relatives residing there). The subject'a

docuzontation is therefore correct for his cover atory.

The

spelling of

"Instalment" on the National Creilt Card vas correctly

copied fron the original document reproduced by KURIOT and ve sust

point out that "instalsent" is not only correct according to tho

dictioneries but is the spelling'of the word which is nor frequently

preferred.

(The Hall Street Journal Invarlably prints the rord

ag "Instalment" with one "I".) It rould be appreciated IT

Readquarters would in the luture coordinate vita aurict in

Headquarters on questions which deal with AQUATIC matters prior to

querying HAVE.

COSTS

AMLBO-3 continues to receire a flat salary of live

huadred dollars ($5UJ.OU) per month, and also 18 pald approximately

one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for purchase of fooustuffa

since he is encouraged to eat his meals ia the EUBARE

safehouse and stay out of public places. he have also continued

to pay the

uife of A1L60-5 the amount of one hundred and twenty five

dollars ($125.00) per nonth for subsistanco for herself and her

two children to supplement the $120.00 per month gho recelves

Iron the Cuban Relugce Center.

to 110d part-tine employment for tra. AllIOS so that RUBARE

could be relieved of the necesalty to support ber, but to date

no have been unsuccessful in our efforts primarily becsuse krs.

ANLSQ-5 hag Dever worked in her life and has no rori sailla

whatsoever.

No other financial espenditures of sote vere made

during the period, and no financial asaistance 1s presently

contemplated for any other AlLEOs.

INTELLIGENCY PRODUCTION

17. During the reporting period so positive latelligence

reporta vere disseminated by the Allio group since Done of the

active agents are locater in the target area, sor do they

circulate in Cuban exile circles.

He are contiouing to utilize MILED-3 as s consultant

on the NAPRCH progras, and to this end are planning to have

his expand bis reporting of personality inforsation on selected

Individuals and to utilive hia to explain loterconnections

between various Individuals and groups as they take sbapo la

MHAPRON rESeArCa.

2xi ve Patrega

FORM

B.AA

574

ACATION

і к9 ₴

PAGE NO

1r

---

## Page 10

104-10213-10256

•,

-

CONTRIUATION OP

DISPATCH

PLA

FICATION

SECRET

DISPATEN STMBOL AND NUMBO

UFGA 113'75

FUTUTE PLITS

19. Future plane for operational exploitation of Abea 3

continue to renals the same as outlined 1n detail 1n referenco D.

The operational uso of AuLIa 3 10 detection/recroitsent

operations 0111 not lo peroitted until his vile add children are

successfully put into asylum in one of the Latin inerican Ebbassles

In Havana.

20. WAVS Station vill continue to work on MILED] cevelopmental

CASES COnCentrating On MRIPRON leads, and attempt to build tro

way communications chandela into such leads. MuLEGE la gt111

considered to be the beat qualilled lead by AuLiO-3 to act as

principal agent and recrulter of other disaffected silitary

persOnDel 1s Cuba.

u111 bo reported via separate dispatch.

END OF DISPATCH

---

