# 104-10168-10007

## Page 1

104-10168-10007

Tra-

TO

2.

CI/0P3/н

*erlsistes

ROOM

то.

27 1t0 2713:6

R°

DATE

SERNARDED

OFFICERS

INITIALS

?

•JEE

COMMENTS

Please Coordinate

9.

10.

RI/D & P

11.

12.

29/2/60-6134

11/2

17.

Sieu

18.

COORDINATING

on a de

CI/ 0P3/10

OFFICER$

ENCLOSURE

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE MICROTRALO

FORM

COPY

VSCLASSIFIED

RI/ E.3t

RI/LES

RI/FIles

File GEBIAS

201-259/120

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Fleproduce

AUTHENCATING OFFICER

NAME

J. D. Ister lima

HELERSING -OFFICEN

TITLE

TITLE

c/ww

FILE NUMBER

201-259,120

DOCUMENT

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

TO

VID Represestative, Miami

EaTana, L

16-18

FRCHA Caler, MID

SUREST

CASSACATION

S-B-C-R-E-T

Nesting of FItal CASTRO vita Curtavo MICINDO

In Caracas as ruported by Pedro Inde MAI Inna

ACTOR BECOMEO

See parazzapa 3_

RI

BERATE STADO, AND NS

0860-25

MEADO ANTENS PRE NO

201 259,220

DATE

RE. "AT - (CHECK "N' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDELING CAN BE JUDGED

FY QUAUFIED NO DESH ONLY

In an article by Pedro luis DIAZ Lanz, forner Chief, Cuban Alr Force,

which appeared in PARASE of the lashington Post on 3 Jannary 1960 entitled

"Why I F18ht 81d81 #CASTRO" (201-97+56), the followlag statenent is mades

oy doubts grew uben I accospanied him on his official vialt

to Venezuela.

He put on a big act of not wanting to seet Venezuela®s

top Concunist, Gustavo MACHADO.

Yet be locked himself in a batbroom

with MACHADO for two hours. It was tbe longest talk be held with .

anyone in Venezuela."

2. Gus. 900 MACHADÖ has for some years been well-know as an overt top

Comunist leader In Venezuela, but the neeting with CASTRO, 1f it did In fact

occur,

as presumably 1t did, could have much sore significence in light of

the following information previously received from a source proren to be

reliable in the past and known to have been in a position to have knowledge

of HIs activities during Hold har II.

"GuStavO NACELDO Morales, born 1898 in Caracas, Venezuela, vas

recruited in the sumer of 19i4 by the NKGB in Bogote, Colombis, for

political intelligence vork 10 his native Venezuela. NACHADO Wa

initialiy controlled by BIS through bis vife, Haria ideas MACHADO,

who maintained contact with Soviet Consular officials during the.

middle forties."

3:

It view of the above, it Is requested that KARlEY interview Pedro

nis DIAz lany in the cost minute detall concerning bis knowledge at arrange.

sents made for this contact vith MACHADO in Venezuela, the reactions of CASTRO

to the arrangements, and any indicated reactions in the dajo following that

meeting. The Interview should incinde specifica as to the location, identities

of others who were kuowledgeable of the contact, the length of the meting,

and other circumstances surrounding it.

Although our efforts at this tine and in this connection my not in.

any say establish that CASTRO 15 a Sovlet agent, it 16 bellered that as

ch detall as possible should be sequired concerning this metting, since

1t may be of considerable value at soon future time.

OLIVER O. GNEBO

Distribution:

3 - Miami

2 - Havana

116-17

# JAnUArY 1960

Viv Martba Tarporer

Based on memo fron Chief, CI/SID to Chief CI/Ops, dated 12 Jan. 1960

---

## Page 3

Once they were comrades. Then this man stood

ready to kill the Cuban Premier. Now he tells

WHY I FIGHT

FIDEL CASTRO

by PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ

Farmer chief, Cuban Air Force

MLANI, FLA

of Caba One of his first moves tas to appoint me chiel

of the Cubas Air Force. Today, 12 sbort months lales,

I am opposing Castro's revolution with all the strength

I ence esed to hole bring ie abore.

For the verond time in my life. I sa an outlaw an

«We to return to my native land except at the rist of

being shor. Yet I have committed se erim unless it

is m crime to fight for freedom--the kind of freedom

all Americans enjoy und all true Caban; long lo share.

Most men become revolutionaries because of .an

appetite for adrenture, greed for pourer, or zeal for

reform. A few like myself become revolutionaries br

accident. Looking back, i hardly seems possible that

only eight years ago l was a gay voung pilot for Q Air-

mays, commuting between Cuba and Florida, without

& rebellious thought in my head.

My ycars since have been crowded with bloodshed.

death, plory, terror, and bitterness. There were escapes

that still make my nerves twang like violin strings.

Then came our moment of triump. And finally I

faced Fidel Castro, a man to whom I bad been devoted,

with a coclied pistol ready to kill hira.

But l am rushing abead of my story. Let me po back

to early 1952, when Dr. Carlos Prio mas President of

Caba, Accidenially I lemmed that his rival, F'alrencio

Betisla, planned to lake over the poverament. I passed

no this information through my farber, a career for.

manent employe. And on March I4, 1952, as I lond

warneel Halinia reined the presidency.

When, later, I met Prio, he secmed genuinely peni

dews about the corruption in his aruinistration and

swore he would win back freedom fur the Cuban

people. He was so fervent that I left the interview a

revalutionary dedicated to the same cause of liberty.

In those days it was common for airline pilots to

smuggle miions and Seotch into Cuba-sorexiing I

never did. Now, however, I started bringing ta rifles.

After a year, someone whispered to Batista's secret

police. They tortured and humiliated my father. Then

they seized me for 10 days of cross-examination.

They lacked evidence in loki ane, lut it was only a

matter of time until they would come alter me again

In a makeshift disguise. I slipped of to Camarney.

registered at a hotel under a fake name, and planned

my escape to Haiti with a pilar friend who was poin!

there to dus crope. One marty morning I hid out im

the grass al the end of the berrily guarded ainstrip.

leaped aboard the plane as il sartaxiing, and left my

homeland behind.

Now a revolutionary. I went from Port au Prince

to Miami. For the next two years. I worked as besbor

and dishwasher. In those days. Fidel Castro was oadr

a name 8o me. He had attacked the Army barracks at

Santiago de Cuba on July 26, 195%. For his pains. he

was languishing in a prison cell

Slaughter of the Innocents

• When Batista granted amnesty to all political of.

fenders in 1955, Castro was freed and I hurried bome.

I wanted nothing more than to resume my penreful

profession as a pilos.

But try as I might, l could met close my eyes to

Batista's terror. For may own eyes witnessed Batintag

police shoot down innocent sirtier Personal tress

were tortured and mardered. I myself was falsely me.

cased of borning sugar came and threatened with

death. Anper boiled up inside me until al las I jerned

Castro'n Z6ch of July movemen and volunierred for

underrover work.

My frse orders were to sneak out of Cuba and ferry

weapons to Castro's hide out in the Sierra Maentra

Mountains. No one with my background could ope

to walk into a Cuban airport and catch a flight out of

the country. I had to create a new personality.

First I borrowed a pasport from Carlos Bastida, a

sympathetic newspapermun from Ecuador. I had never

visited Ecuador, but I became an expert on that coun

try. l even karna to tat with an Ecuadorcan accent

and to forge Bastida's signature. Finally I donned a

Panama has, dark glasses, and a sports coat thue seemed

appropriate for a South American reporter. Then with

Frank Fiorini, an American friend of the morement..

I set out from Santiago to Camaguey.

"What Are You Joing Hera?"

• To give the trip the appearance of an outing.. we

brought along a couple in the back seat. Batista patrols

stopped us 15 times and fristied us for weapons. But

they politely left the gul alone; they never suspected

thas this giggling teenager carried a pistol strappal

under her skirt.

As Camagney, Frank and I made our ware separately

8o the airport. There I realised my dark glasses were

arousing the suspicione of airport plaineloebesmen. 1f

I kept them on, I would invite an interroration. If I

look them oll, I woald risk recognition for I was

'known a every airport in Caba. I could imagine some

friend booming ont lo me. "Pedro Luis, what are you

doing here?""

The plain lothesmen sened to appronch. With cal.

culated ensualness alhorch ray heart was peanding. I

removed she plasses, palled of my hat foe rod mens.

ure, ant arulled innorratly around. The police loat

interer. But riple up lo lse moment the plane doors

shur, I expected to be rerenised.

From that time on, my work for the revalation was

one narrow escape aflet aother. From Minai I went

to Costa Rica, where I picked up a C-46 lowed with

• 1, 1400

---

## Page 4

Fremier Fidel Castro

rifles, mortars, and aramunition- and 12 recruits.

(One of them was Hutert Matos, who was to become

•# famous Castro commasder and to be rewarded after

the revohrtion writh command of Camaguey province

-until he spoke out against Commmists. Then he

was sentesued to jail as a traitor.) All were needed

•de

tately by Castra, so was expecting a final as

an his hide-out

.! Brought the big cargo plane down on a dirt road

at Cianeguilla, not far from Castro's headquarters,

o here guerrillas were waiting to unload. Some actually

wept joyful tears at the sight of the armunition arriv-

ing in the nick of time.

The road was so barron that one prop whacked a

fence post. I could neither repair the damage nor take

oft again before Batista's patrols spotted the plane.

Regretfully, I splashed gasoline over the C-46 and set

it afire.

.; Then with the retel lorre. I marched inte the moan-

• trine There, on March 30 1958, I had my fry meeting

with Fidel Costro. He was overflowing with ereite-

went and hailed us as "be savioure of Caba." At that

time he had fewer than 140 wen, with so ammunition

exerpe a bar we had broucht. Casiro rpoke with fervor

upbe lf only bie Tommy run had born a staff. he

here pared for a barded prophes erying in the

His personaliry bad the stor al a loret

A Miraculous Escape

I I reyed in the mountains air werks firbing with

the pround troopa. Onro l was casphi in ube open by a

Batirto F4i Frher. Ballete kicked up the dus all

around me. but mirarulearly I wasn't eren seratched

When Fidel learned I was rirking

myself on the

groand be sent urgent orters thas I should day out

of the fighting He had len trouble retruiting soldiers

he complained, thnn fnding tninod pilate whe could

fly weapons into the rugred menmains of the ielanda

Then our forces in the nosth capoured a small, brat-

up plane. Its sinzle engine mas underpowered and

badly in need of scrhaul. The caly nasipationz!

equipment sas a compas. which runed out to be 45

dezters off. But this pitiful plane male up the entire

rebel Air Force for some months wonl, for $5,000

down, I bought a little Cessna Isú in Miami.

This plane sered as our arms airlift Once, rich

only 300 pounds load limit to spare. I rammed aboard

1,000 pounds of rifles and ammunition. We were a

sitting eluck for patrols. but the coly plane nie sam

overlooked us. Another time, after taking off out of a

mountain canton, I had a peas-miss with a Batista

frigate with antiaircraft guns. Still another time 1

was foreed to make a storm emergency landing in the

Energlades.

One of my missions was to fly weapons to Calabaza

"bere Fidel'& brother Raul was in charge of the second

trons. From she fire be impreised me as wild and

unreliable. When be grumbled that Fidel was getting

ost of the arms I retoried sharply: "I am nos bring.

ing ricapons lo you as an indiridual I am bringine

weapons to Cuhans who are fighting dictatorship.

Later a friend, who has my complere coutdence, told

me a fuhmarine brought in a big bach of weapons for

Raul. By the uniforms and language of the crew. air

friend judged the vessel was Raivian

There were many flights in eterloaded planes,

many landings in the mountains at night without

lights. But perhaps my narronest escape came after I

delivered the arms for Ernesto (Che) Guesara, whom

I later found out was pro Communist. to lead the fa-

rous attack on Santa Clara. I vas furrent so lavord ivo

an' area that Batista's patrols had under constant

watch. A hundred waiting guerrillas grabbed the am-

munition whis I hurriedly poured gas into the wing

tanks from Ese gallon cans. Sulucaly a Barista B-26

spotted us and dired down with guns blazing.

"Liberty or Death"

My helpers scartered into the jungle, leasing me

alone in a hail of bulleis. I sind my the wing strear.

ing "Cowards!" until Faustino Perez, now in charge

of confiscaring Batista pruperty. emerged with two

others to help me camouflage the plane. Later I dis-

corered a bullet had pierred the nose tank. One spark

and the plane would have gone up like a bomb. Since

we had to assume Batista troops would soon be on

tbeir tray, I struck a match and oore more watched

a precious airrade go up in fames.

On Ampast 24. 1958, Fidel appointed me hend of the

rebel Air Forre My friends had the dase inscribed on

a watch that I will wear. Then, au Sew Year's Day

1959, just one year ago, rume car triumph. Batista

handed over the povernment and ded the country. I

was in Corta Rica, pirking up anolber toad of weapons.

when the excition newe came abroach When Castro

appainted me chief of the Cuban Air Forse, be did oo

in a letier that ended with "Liberiod O Muerte"

Liberty or beark

My faith in Cairo man free jolied afer hie trium

phast entry into Havana. Throsphoss the lone march

edering Catholie women had pinned holy medale on

him 1 overheard Che Guevara lease him about tbe

"deroration" he was wearing: "Liaes" Fidel mid.

"o hare lo po ram. Most of our prople are Galholic.

• Te rannol condren the Church richi suny. Thas is a

power me cansor destroy no rasily." It man the firse

aric hurch statement I had heard freen him.

No douhes grew when l acrompanied him on his

discial visit to l'erieruela. He put on a big ass of nos

wanting to meet Venezuela's top Communise, Gustavo

Macharlo. Yer be locked histif in a bathroom with

Slacharlo for iwo hours. le mas the longest salk he

held with anone in Venezuela

I complaised to Fidel thas his brother Raul had

named Coramunists, who hado't fired a shot in tie

revolution, as army commanders Fidel replied eas-

nestly: "I ars goog to hase to dismiss Raul. I am not

going to let the Communists like over.

But Fidel did not dismin Brml Indead be por bim

in charge of the armed forres and gave Che Goevara

control of agrarian reform My faith in Fidel was

shaken. Having foukht for free spirert, I derided lo

pat it to the lese. But I was wise enough in tbe ways of

revolations to arrange with my brotber Sergio Dias

Brall lo hare a bos rendy far a quick getaway. Tien

l issued a salement that I was ready to fiphi amy die-

tatorship-Batista, Trajille, or "he vors dietatorship

in the world communin."

This was the showdown. Juan Almeida, commander

of a sank regiment, came vica a message that Fidel

wanted to see me at his home. I strapped on my pistol,

slipped in a clip of 14 bullets, and removed toe salety

catch. Iben I faced Castro be erupted like a rolcano.

"Why shoald you make a sement against com

munism?" he demanded. "You will only confuse the

people. You are not supposed to do anything wilbout

my consent l am the one ebo tells you what to do

Angrily I asked whether be had not berome a dic-

tator himself. Whr should I mor have freedom to ex-

тот на

gants communisan and

stood by my convictions. I declared. "Remember," I

said, "you did not win the resolution alone. You had

my help and the help of other friends."

I warned fercely that I maid not acrept arrest or

go to jail for saring what l bebered. To silence me he

would hare to kill me. "You will have to carry my

body on your shoulders and explain what has hap

pened," I said. "You will hare to explain to the Caban

people why! tave been kitied after speaking against

communism."

My hand was on my pistol and I was ready to use

it Castro looked at me- and at my pistol- hard for

a moment. He was far from sure whether she Caban

prople wouid support him in any action against his

Air Force chief for being anti-Communist. He backed

Continued on page 7

With his mito Tara, Major Dias Lans emiles for phota Now in

Miori, his "Tootut bombing" ol Muuna was iniernational incident.

---

## Page 5

I FIGHT CASTRO conten

In happier doys, Diaz Lonz (r.) and Castro discuss air search for koul Castro

I shall come back to my homeland'

down. "You go home and wair" he deliver them by air: Frank Fiorini, the

growled. "I'T see what 1 am going to

American who had been with me

do with you later."

through much of the revolution, owned

If I was to escape, I had to put them

a B-26 that had been comerted to a

off balance, if oniy for a few hours.

rivilian plane. The gun openings had

With an indifferent shrug I told Al-

been permanently sealed and the bomb

meida I would write a letter of resig-

bas fashioned inso a makeshift luggage

nation. All I wanted from life. I said,

mom partment.

was to go back in my old airline job. !

On the afteraoon of October 21.

said, "Tell Fidel I won't cause him any

Frank and I roared off for Hasana. The

trouble and I don't want him to cause

winds were at peace in the sky. Except

me any." Then I added as an after-

fos some vibration in the left engine,

khoughe: "Don't put any guards on my

nothing happened to au fur the interna

hore or follow me around, interfering

tional storm our fright: was to stir up.

with any private life.*

My ruse worked. For the next few

He swooped low over the country.

stutting our leaflets through the baggage

hours I was unguarded. I got in touch

opening.

with Sergio, prepared my resignation,

I learned afterward that Castro him-

und signed it. Them. with my

mie

sell was caughs in the leader blizzard

Tania, I hurried to the dock Fidel:

One copy Calceed righs inio his face

men were watching the airports, but

Then be read the bessage, his whisk-

apparently it never orcurred lo tem

ers trembled with rage.

that I migbe go to Miami by boar

Yet in may beart I knew I would rome

My Message for Castro

beck I could not rem until the democ-

After we were safety on our way back

racy I had fought io bring to Caba bad

to Florida, Castro's soldiers shot one of

• been realized.

their own B-26s full of boles. A light

In the U.S. I decided not to speak

plane also was fired upon and its

out immeliately but to wait until esents

Chilean pilor wounded. Throughout

showed others that Castro was simply

Havana the falling shrapnel caused

exchanging one form of dictatorship

tragic casuallies for ir hich Castro chose

for another. But I was subpoenard to

to blame me rather than his owa men.

testify before the Senate Internal Se

lesseo tell how I know about events

curity Subcommittee. about my knowl

inside Cuba today. There are patriota

edge of communism in Cuba. As a guese

who rist ibeir lives to keep ine in-

in your country.

I was nhliged to tell

what I knew of this matter.

formed. I have a Gnal word for you

who read this newepaper, whose demo

For the beat few

woeks I aroided

cratic ideals and institutions are my

publicily an more and more people pos

inspiration. I hatever I munt do in the

• Blimpse hehind the beard at the real

fasure. I will inke care nol lo violae

Castra Then I tried to reach my people.

any of your laws or your bospitality.

Beeanse Castro had denounced me as a

Thank God, Ireedom el expression le

traitor, I wrote a reply and sent it to

no trime here.

every Caban newapaper. Not a siugle

11 Fidel Castro should read shis, I

one dared print is.

bare a word, lon lor him: I demon

This was the reason I decide to be

serated lo you many limes that I was

my own mailman. I had 200.000 cop

willing lo die so resore demarruty lo

les of my letter printed an arranged to

Caba Be smared, I bare nor ebanged I

---

