# 104-10178-10165

## Page 1

104-10178-10165

NATOS

11F l'our"

Mir"

TO

Chlal, TDP 27. 15-16

FROM

SUBJECT: Anna (paratlanal

APELTO. FUSeS NITOLOT

22

Reteranco PUiJA-SLi9s 58658 80653 /AT1S1629

212

A tache her set a a ho clot re are a a report no preparad

by RaIsER.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only,

Do Not Reproduce:

TPBIJA

Attachmant - as descrised

above.

2 - 7A9H

1- I1.

• Ruby

• when

HIR T0, 51-28A

CLISSIFICATION

4/pl

---

## Page 2

ESCApo SPOTS Di fOLdE MINDLUT.

1. On. 2). June 1951 Petur NICiOV escaped fron Pilgaria l Oraoco wich als

urother, Ivan MIND%, jet and la sla PalINDY, and sureo trudorado,

SLOTAn PELURCÓ, LITRKO PA'AiDi, and giaO ILATEIN.

In Gradio to mas

inter-gato: 51 701454di, JALATER, DIC, SYLEEN, DA3P, and UASP/B.

2.

On the urine, of Ancel Il'iSTULOr, the loader of the underground group 1n

Markovo, Feter liMoLer doined the underground organisation in the Plovidio

sta in larch 1751, bealine menuers of the organiza:ton maro Angal CHAROV

of florile, cocord Menterant likoiaHIlanci of Plordir, and Angel

IRISTOLOY and likola TODOROV of Markovo.

Vauil LAYAROV, a non-consaloned

offtear lo Plordir, hal an Important solo in the organisation.

3.. NIKOLOY know about the edistance of sue Gurjani resistance cruup in the

Rhodopt and Balkan Hountains.

basiion 1ta feberal anti-Coundat actirities,

the underground organization in the Piordly wes had the task of alding the

curlant by supplying then with food, mampons, and armunition. Informant

never san to jorjans, but ens of his dutloa maa to collect arme und

aminitton for the gorjand and daliver then to Angel triatosor who ha

ontact wits the dorjant and dalivared armanent to them

Similar undergroand urganisations have been organised In the villagas of

Fazaorgay 8251 andoro, Sr. Spaa, Ivor, Sonativo, ail as utich are 1n

5.

on 7 Has 195 NIXOLOr received ordera from agil CHaROV to taio care oi

Curee dosarien Trudovine, Spas rallli, LOraTCO DAIJANOV, and StOran PELTERoY.

Nono of tues tara snom to likcLot.

NIxOLOV »a civen ta reconnition

simal (whistling) aid was cold that the thres Trudovaks hal been Inducted

Into the orzariza: 1on ly Vasil LAZASOY, a person them NIXOLUV could trust

and cooperate

witn. Ha was Lold that the tridorake should le fad and arnou

until a 5u11o care in take then to the Gorjarl.

NIXOLOV was told that he

world itna tne Irudoraks in a roaded rea near Bolshtica. NIKOLOV mas not

able to contact the Irudorass that nicht.

6.

The next day, B Maj, MIKOLOV Mith Vasil LAliOl, contactod Spas PAeAIN and

MIkOlaW took over the rridovars and hid then in tha

vicinity o: Markore. Pas Chir! ImMovan, PAraTeo DAIJANO%, Fas alasing,

and he was Locatos tho jane nuche by Argal MNISTOZOl in Branipolo.

MIScOZC conquered Sailiov to the hiding place of the other two Trudovaks.

MIrcior pare the truanrais food, thrao old Turkich rifloa with a unition,

and a hand irenero.

7.

On 2 ini cho Trulovars tore visited

at "ter hiding ploco by lvan sodoror

SICIANA WAL

CYSENSTIZED

---

## Page 3

1d-0n0d

KAPOK

• During che nipt or 910 May MIkolDs, on clers of Vail LAZAROV, too

ho trudovaka to a hiding plaso In J01a logia, mich 1a 20 kLlonstor

south of Markovo.

Then LA'ANOV and tho tridiras arraved there they

found Vasil INinor and his miro Varia wairl lur there Mikolor Left

it a, and IATAROV aid his wife rotalned win thes all the next day,

10 ME 1951. MarIa LAtOr 10 1 sieter of Staan PALtsoV.

9.

Acoording to Peter NIXOLOV, HIC STOZOY orderl Peterig brothor, Ivan

NIKOLOV, to provide the trudovake mith foil.

van carple road betart

1n0a to dola Mostla, but aftor boing questloned aboui 1t by tis polic

he coased to do so.

Inter the foou was nupposed to hare been taken by

BOFIA PELTESOV, uncle al one at the three trudornia.

10. NIKOLOV san the Pradovake in Ploydly and L'artaro on lu Ma and ho gave

then food and a blanket.

On 15 or 16 May Ivan NIXOLOV brought Iller arOV to dola logila.

GU DROY

mas to guido tha prudovalo to the Gorjant tacauso there mas no cuido

avatlablo to tako ten to Groaco, The Icioung day GIUROY was arrestod

and there mea no one alse to take them to tia Gorja1.

• 12. Following the arrest of Vastl LAzAROV overy precaution mas takon to pre

ent to volice from locating the trudovaks. Their location as chango

sovoral tines.

1. On 5 Jue Potor NIXOLOY was arreatel by State Security. He was interrogated

and boaton by the socirity agento in an effort to make hin adedt h1o

connection with the trudovais. Narcloy raruset to atale anything untu

shown a atatasant simod by Vagil IZAROV lo the arioct that Potor

had cooparated with LiAROV in hidin:; tis Traiorais.

Ho saw. that LAZAROV

hnd siven may tha enturo organization so be desided to calk.

cold about evemybody but Itoutenant MIcãor al Ploriar. Folining, h18

confession Peter was forcot lo augu a stavasane shat ha vas Jolene, stato

Securlty under the name of "fristo" and that he would obtain tron da

brother Ivan the recogaltion sichals for costacting the trutoraks. On

I JUDA NTKOLOV as raloased to contact his brother.

He was talu to report

back to the police by 1700 the same day. Whas NIXCLOV want back to the

pallee he told them that he mas not able to ?ir1 his brother and

would try again the sart dev.

Actually Pater had no his Tother Ivan on

tho Mariovo-Plorin road, ant he had explazral line a.ruation to ua and

told la 2o war Arcel HaTSrOLoV and othars tho mich la compromeed ur

LAZARO, '8 uni his co contessloos.

Polor surestod tal ovaryono tho was

In dangor go the next day to Gole Mogile, Iros there they toild ibate for

Oroace.

KAPCK

---

## Page 4

-ais

Ie. The pollie mithorilles toll deter MOT le in hig nuudd inhe safe

(7-8 Juno) at cio factory 1 Plowdir thore ha ras ag:ojad.

Artor nork

ho was takon by the police to darloro and nas orderod de cutan

the

recrinleion signaig.

He was alan crimed to tring tho tridorais the

nort day to a colies shop between Piorlir and larkovo, and he ras

Instructed as to nor he shouid behave upos enterine the shop si tho

Trudovaks were arnod, unarued, or did not come. He vas then allored

to go hone.

15.

Inan sIxalcY arrivod at home arter bolds releared by tha pollco, he found

Ivan told him t'at to had carrled out poler's orders,

but tbat Angol HISTOZOV and the othera did not want to leave because they

salt sure that they toald be able to place all the gulle on the NIKOLor

brothers who were sacaping.

16.

Karly In the morring of 6 June Poter und Ivan NIKOLOV la't their home and

headed toward Dola Moptia, thore they joined the Trudovako. No policemen

were seen in the area. At dola Nocile they maltod for Borig and Poter

PELTEXOY until 10 fine, and then all of then started toward the dreak

borde which they cruesed nithout troident on 19 June. They wurrandered

lo the Greak authorities on 21 juna.

17.

Peter had knom Vasil LAZAPOT as a child, but he had not seen him for

alt roars until the than of the trudoran attair, lle knows that LATAROV

mas chalman of tho Consundat sout Urgantiation-10 Salaghtica, WINCLOV

thinks that LAzARoV ray have been & double agent, but 11 no had roaliy

wanted

to betray the group he had ample opportunity to do so. In ary

ease NIXOInY feals that Ih'hOV did not aut in good faith because be

promiaed the truduvaka a guide to iroaco whilo ho actually intendad to

send then to the torjand.

NIKCLOY did not know the Trudovaks, but he had

heard of Peter and Boris

FELTEKOV, and he considors then to be natlonal1sts

even though ho had rome misunderstandirs with thes duiing the flight to

Arseco, Anong the Trudovaky he likes Spas RAIKIN best.

18.

After beino leid alono at the Lavrion Camp for a considerablo tina, Peter

and Ivar NIKOLDY applied for migration to Braall. In the baginning they

more willing to atay 1n Grasce and ficht Communion Ir. Bulgaria. They

expressed to RaIsey thelr millinness to go sissiran into Bulgarin, but

RISEN sado no cominenta. Since no action mas taken, both laft for

Brasil 17 Novembar 175L.

9a Comment. The operational value or the brothers was not very dis

pocially artor the arrest of some bombors of the underground organizat!

Neverthnless, they are williag and able to try ase-

• i nobode 19900 *

---

