# 104-10071-10036

## Page 1

104-10071-10036

CRICLASSIFIED

Si/WELT: (Optionai)

ETERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

ELENSION

1632

CONTADENTIAL

SHEET

SECRET

CI/SO: Richard Ober

3O: (Onom designation, room numbas, cos

buiking)

DATE

RECEVER

FORK A2009

1.

DATE

B- 324

14 MAR 1003

nech komment to thom from whor

Originated by: WH/T/PROlson

(11 Mar 69)

Based on (HJK 264 (Dec Monthly

Paras- 880 (A)

893

(B)

897,-900 (C)

902 (DA

912 (E)

923 (F)

Disseminated to. FBI on

12 MAR 1969

7.

9.

10.

12.

13.

14,

15.

FOXA

DO NOT REPROQUEL

RETURN TO CIA

610 maus

SECRET

EI CONFIDENTIAL

07506

PROD

PRUD

Files B-Memos. (record copy)

(w/o ats)

CC:

100-300-044

(JWK)

CC.

SECRET

EYES ONLY

ERNAL

USE

ONLY

12B-324

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

HES OHLY

acT/ Jamaicatunited Stutos Biser power yed

1. The monthly remart for Docester 1968-era the

)contains several references

to ties

Detween Black Power groups In Janatea and the United States,

, which

are provided, in full, below""A sumary of the report, onitting

or United States citizens,

2. The Items of possible interent, omitted fron the digbenin

ation,

are noted below:

DistribeK. Vgeorge Myers, leader of the Black Power group in

Kingston, said that he had netvir. Donald Duncan and other Black

Pover supporters fron Bror's tows the had plans to attend the

presentation of the Marcus Garvey Prize for Human Rights to krs.

Martin Luther King on 10 December and during the function distri

bute pampblets protesting agsiast the award being made to her late

husband instead of tosarcus Garvey. LJerry Saall androld Bertraa

would be resporatble tor the distributton.

of the pasphlets.

B.

During a meeting of menbers of subversive groups in

Jamaica, Carl Willians who advocates open, violent ravolution,

promisad to contact Nathan Richards, a Janical, of the Davelop

ment Finance Corporation, whon he described ae a member di the

Black Power Movesout

while the latter vass student in the United

33

3t9t35.

Lozake deplored the habit of paople

During another meeting on 15 Decerber, shyrate Sam

"selllag out their Sellorner"

and referred spectfically to the case of John Darts andiPallip

Tribble, who were apprehended by the police and deported to the

United States in May 1968.. The deportation of Davis and Tribble

still contrued to be a source of worry and on 25 December/#inston

¿oaroe, Myers, and/udolph Nugent visited/Sterror (Inu), at bla

losing his job.

Power Hovement in the United States and a close associate of

tokely Carmichael andf. Rap Brow, recently arrived in Janaica

for the purpose of recruiting Jamalean wonen for domestic vort

in the United States. He posed as a minister of religion.

I. Claudius Henry, lender of the Her Creation Interna-

tional Peacenakers

Association (lornerly the New Creation Pasce-

makers Tabernacle), was believod to be expecting a visit in

January 1969 from some of sis supporters in the United States, and

in order that this should not be generally koor, he had arrauged

SECRET

488

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NO LOGENS MICEN

EVES ONLY:

to stay wich DriB: Douglas sod Dennis Daly, a Janican

These Visitors would bring with then certall documents,

mindins plans for the overthror. os

the government by force.

resentate

4117oman Streat when Eugene Afflick reported that he ve

noah visit on 2s December from a Mustte leader to the untied states

admenbers were asked to attend a service on 25 Decembery the

hual ta Hender did not arrive during Decenber

tat tace

1969)

Istr

Based-ons

on

9B1-2

CIE/SO

KELT/ JATS/R

C/WA/7/JATS

C/NE /7

CLWH/EI

CHJR-264

December Monthly

#Paras

880₴

FEE.

1893

*(B)39

-897

900K(C)

902

-(D)

912

923

(E)

SECRET

HO FORETEX DISTER CONRAILET

EYES ONIY

---

