# 104-10228-10007

## Page 1

104-10228-10007

.

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

bren

661

DATE , 5 AFR 62

то:

• DIRECTOR

FROM & SAN JOSE

ACTION, TEW 10

• iNro.

• DEP, COP, Ci, 61/075, El/DA, WHI%a SiC 2

?

3

ROUTING

a us

1111

APR 6 0210Z 62

DIR INFO WAVE CITE SANJ ISSU

• CIOSE

NES:

SAils 49216-47077) *

four

1. SANJ NOW IN REGULAR CONTACT WITH AMBARBS AND

colyssuo

REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANO (CRC) THROUGH HULAKE-1, AS PRESENTLY ARRANGED THIS

CONTACT SERVES MAINLY TO KELP COORDINATE LOCAL EFFORTS.

2. WHILE THIS COORDINATION HELPFUL, FOR BEST RESULTS CUBAN OPS COSTA

RICA BELIEVE IT NECESSARY ESTABLISH STATION CONTROL OVER THESE GROUPS.

WITH CONTROL SANJ CAN DETERMINE EXACTLY WHAT ASSETS AND CAPABILITIES

EACH GROUP HAS AND THEN DIRECT ACTIVITIES ACCORDINGLY.

MOREOVER,

COMTO THROUGH STATION SHOULD IN MOST CASES BE MUCH SAFER OPERATIONALLY

THIS MAY BECOME PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT WHEN NEW LOCAL GOVT TAKES

CHARGE.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

TINA THREAT

Cop; No.

---

## Page 2

104-10228-10007

3.

IN

- 87

IF HOG AGREZABLE REQUEST FOLLOHING ACTIO: DE TAKEN:

PAGE 2

SO IICEPT IN CASES WHERE DEEMED UNWISE FOR SPECIFIC REASONS,

SEND ALL FUTURE COMMO FROM HQS TO CRC AND APARBS THROUGH STATION

CHANNEL®

B. THOUGH PRE ARRANGEMENT WITH STATION (SIMILAR TO REF) ADVISE

CRC AND AMAZE LEADERS OF THIS PROCEDURE THROUGH MIAMI COMMO CHANNEL

AND INSTRUCT THEM USE STATION CHANNEL FOR FUTURE COMMO TO THEIR HOS.

%. INZORY STATION OF EXPENSES NOW DEING COVERED THROUGH IQS FUNDING

TO CRO AND REARES, SO SANJ WILL KNOW WHEN LOCAL FUNDING NECESSARY FOR

ACOMPLISUMENT CRECIFIC TASKS.

D. ADVISE SANJ WHEN THIS PROCEDURE BECOMES EFFECTIVE.

END OF MF.SSAGE

C/s COME!T:

*SANJ STATED THAT HULAKE-1 MADE CONTACT AMBARB-39 ON NIGHT 20 MARCH

AND THAT HE EAGER INTEGRATE BUT WANTS APPROVAL OF HIS MIAME CONTACT.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

.. ...

---

