# 104-10229-10446

## Page 1

104-10229-10446

S.C. ATTACHMENT FU TO

UFGA -26073

Juso 8, 1966

Iro Antonto P'aceo

PoDe Doss 1808

ulund, Florida 33101

Doar Dr. ka000s

Counselor Intorviewed

today•

Previous. to his coning hore; councelor tolkod to the Counoll for the

Dlind on thore me nothing me oould do for him and sotunily it man

contrnry to our rogulations to aocept hin sinoo the moriool roport

Indiontod that he mn Industrially blind. The Counoll for the Blind

statod that if ho could siyak English they would attmnt to work with

him but,

of courne, with his clausona, se would bo difficult for him

to out.

At tho ond of the interview,

indiontod that bocauce of his

conoral debilitatod condition, he did not aotually wlah to got into ay

training proprom or aotusly not into any rork situation in he had Just

about onough atrengh to olt up. of courno, gloucona lo protty generally

conaldered to ba progressivo in nature and ovarything concernod and

= nilonnd above leaves tria counsolor aith the irpression that thia

Individual w111 bo a lläbility on sono one for the root of hin life and

• 1e not esplojable.

rhornforo, of couroo, he la not boing aocoptod into this rehabilitatlo

procram:

It nould be tila counselory rooormondation that 1f lt wor

ronsible, that ho be droprod fron the CiC procrna ind put on tho Cuban

l'arusoe programo Thia reocemendation 18 in viar of the fnot, that this

w1ll be a lone indefinito melfare one and de 10 likely that thu Cuban

Rafuren conorol progras aill be going on long aftor the CFS la olosed

and vory I1koly, men when the Cuban Refugee progran 16 olooed, tiery

mould continue on the stato selfaro. la course, I an in no position to

linos thother thie 1e lesally possible.

Sinoerely yours,

ansiend

00€

Copy

ZIN

---

