# 104-10234-10368

## Page 1

104-10234-10368

: D

+6°.9I1090-D

CLASS MED 435:870

IÍ SECRET

1 Y

TC

7

NO RID COPY

SECRET @4119TZ

CITE L

1!8: =

KANESE

REF A.

YWAY PBRUMEN UNSNAFU AYLA

DIR

15932

4 Ja 85 N 82939

1342 (1N76A24)

DIR 145 pinesa

I SUBJ

ESS CONTACTED

MISHAW/S ON 25 MAY, TO REQUEST

riD, SUBSEQUSNTLY REFUSEO 3:

SPANISH VISA AS REPORTED REF B.

Profilo: Ta HEF S, FOLiONING

POINTS DISCUSSES MITY 11201:

TWO MEETS WITH SUBJ ON 25 MAY, :! STE

YET WITH VISHAFU/S DAD SECOOD LAR MOTEI BAFOLEDI TO GIVE SUBS

ANSWER O VISA.

A: :

..2.

SUBW SIATED HAD GILN I: CONTACT ITH KUSASK IS TIMES AID

15 TINESIHAD DISSOLVED RELATIO:SHIP. STATED KUEARK LAST ATTEMPTED

OBTACT HIM IS TORN VIA ODURGI TID HONING AGO AND THAT HE THEN

AGREED TO CONTACT. SUBS SINIE! T INTERLSTEL IN CONTACTS VITH LOV

LEVEL TYPES, ONLY MICHEST PERMIE: LEVELSO SUED STATED HAD MANY

HICH LEVEL TRICES IN PORArE ROTTO MATED BOSSY TENNEDY AS ONE

WHO ONCE MELPEE HIM OUT OF J::

"JIATE TOOK PARE HASY FAIDS

AMLASH-I file

in,

---

## Page 2

A PERUMEM, CRELATED MANY "STORIES" OF EXPLOITS CO RECARO PagES?.

3. SUBJ SPOKE IN SAME VEIN OF DISCONTENIMENI OF "NO ACTION"

AND OF MADR GROUP, SPECIFICALLY NAMING QUSPORT/I, AS DID AMLASH/S,

UNSNAFU/S, AS REPORTED REF 3, SUSJ STATED WOULD HAVE QUSPORT/1

KICKED OUT (PRESUMABLY KUBARX) AS SOO: AS POSSIBLE. SUBJ AND

UNSNAFU/S, AS WELL AS AMLASH/3, HAVE REPEATED EXPRESSED THEIR

• HIGH REGARD OF BELIEF IN AMLASH/!. NOW THAT AMLASH/S IS IN PBRUMEN,

SUBS AND UNSNATU/S SPEAK OF HIS IN SAME RESPECT AS AMLASHAL.

SAID THEY ARE NOW RISKING LIVES AND ONLY

LASH-3.com

plan gon

VAY THÉY WILL GET OUT OF PBRUMEN WILL BE STEAL PAINE AND ATTEMPT

ESCAPE. UNSNAFU/S HAS STATED SEVERAL TIMES, SINCE APRIL BOTH TO

GLOADEN AND MIRRLEES, THAT "SOMETHING BIG" GOING TO HAPPEN IN

NEXT TREE MONTHS.

SUBJ AND UNSWAFU/S BOTH STATED TIME IS RIPE

FOR ACTION.

•4. SUBJ ARRIVED IN PARI FROM LOND ON 21 MAY. WHEN MIRRLEES

ASKED SUBJ WHY HIS KUBARK CONTACIS IN PBPRIME HAD NOT PROVIDED

NECESSARY ARRANGMENTS FOR VISA, SUB STATED HIS BUSINESS MADR NOT

1i03e

NUBARK SPONSORED AND KUBARK NOT AVARE OF IT. SUBJ INSISTED

IT IMPERATIVE HE ARRIVE MADR 25 MAY TO SPEAK TO IMPORTANT MEMBER

.. THEIR GROUP." SUSS SAID ALSO SHOULD HAVE BEEN A RHETAL BY 25

SOCIET

C2CbEL

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1N 82934

Page 3

• PERFIRE AND FROM THERE RETURN MAUR LATER DATE. SAID THIS COMPLI-

CATES HIS PLANS. SUBJ SOUGHI

KUSAKK ASSISTAICE ONLY AFTER NOPMAL

VISA APPLICATION DETERMINED IO TAKE IDS LONG.

5. WHEN MIRRLEES HAD SECOND MEET WIIN SUEJ TO CONFIRY RESULTS

OF ELEK VITH STOCKWOOD RE VISA GIRRLEES FIRST TOES SUBJ SHE WOULD

CHECK WITH HER BOSS BUT CERTAIN WOULD BE DENIED ON SECURITY GROUNDS)

TWO FRIEND, OF. SUBS APPEAREDS MAN NAMED "FRANK" APPROX 26-29

STATED HAD KNOWN SUBJ LONG TIME. GIRL.

-DANIELLE" APPROX 28 DID

NOT SPEAR• BOTH APPEARED BE STUDENTS®

MAN APPEARED EFFEMINATE.

SUBa PROPOSED MIRRLEES JOIN GROUP FOR DINNER BUT MIRRLEES DECLINED

OFFER AS HAD OTHER PLANS.

FROM ABOVE, IT OBVIOUS INERE TWO DIFFERENT STORIES RE KUBARK

CONTACT WITH SUBJ. SUBJ'S LINE OF THOUGHT EXACTLY, ALMOST TO SAME

HORDS, AS THAT OF AMLASH/3, UNSNAFU/S.

T: REGARDING PARA TVO REF A, STATION NOT AVARE COMMENT THIS SUBJECT

IN GROUPS NOT ALREADY CONNECIED WITH AMLASH ONE• FROM HERE PROB=

LEN SEEMS BE THAT AMLASH CIRCLE IS WIDE AND EACH NEW FRIEND OF WHOM

WE LEARN SEEMS TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF PLAN:

SECRET

---

