# 104-10121-10302

## Page 1

104-10121-10302

39418

C-0F-ID-I-I-T-I-I

D-TE: 27 March 1957

PROT: 7-082

TO

: Chief, hit

Director of Security

Director of Personnel

FI. Ori

: Chief, Communications Security Division

SUBULOT: fevocation of Cryptographic Clearance - Morales, David S.

I. The cryptographic clearance held by subject has been revoked

none on a ca. siegulation 90-500. Fevocation is effective

2. Subject is not authorized to have continued custody of, access

to, or otherwise dain further knowledge of staff cryptographic material

information. Subject has been informed of this revocation, has been

debriefed concerning cryptographic and related conmunications security

matters, and has signed a Debriefing Statement acknowledging continuin

responsibility for the protection of all cryptographic information

obtained during the tenure of his cryptographic clearance.

FOP. THE CHIEF, COLMUNIC-TIONS:

Muel, crotecare branch

Distribution:

1 -

WH

1 - Security Office (Debriefing Statement attached)

1 - Fersonnel Office (Wing 1-H Curie Fall)

1 - OC-S/PF.OI File

C-0-:-F-II-E--T-I--I

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

REVOCATION OF CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE

DEBRIEFING STATEHENT

1. I,.

stand o

Trace

hive been informed that ny KUBARK cryptographic clearance has been revoked

effective this date.

2.

I understand that revocation of ny cryptographic clearance bars me

autonatically from further access to KUBARK staff cryptographic material or

Information, but thut it does not reiease me from my obligation to protect

the secrity of cryptographic information, the inowledge of whish I might

still ritain. I chail coutinie to protect that information to the best of

my ability, and I shall llewise protest the crypt graphic information of

other U. S. Goverrment agencies should I have knowledge of that information.

3. I have read the provisions of Public Law 513 of 13 kay 1950. I

understand that I an bound by that Act even after the revocation of my crypto-

graphis clearance and ny termination fron KUBARK, and that improper disclosure

of cryptographic incornation could subject me to

punishnent under the provisions

of the Act.

4 I certify that no KUBARK staff cryptographic material remains in my

possession.

Signod: and R. Master

Date:

21 Jamessy 195)

Witness

CONFIDENTIAL

---

