# 104-10216-10237

## Page 1

104-10216-10237

THIS COPY IS NOT

^ "FOR RELEASE

DISPATCH

: ait -18, 123

14C755

'jad

Quiet of stallon,

801-5283

3a Decenter 19

001.716

CURA

a potlas pere no loner asserenry alade de had oma out 1ha Precio Perfoo

Do to me vry sottalatso nons lao atras vito AlLARIA bremane:

Manl Castro.

CUBA

(3) To astation 1a MEll in Asterantley eal the stat momant for

the ConE 2100 in the DeNt In months.

CUBA

• WATER US OFFINE

(1) Any muset of mmll venge und many De a ble operallas.

(2) A well traled croup of moo

(3) A mall almo ale fores nad any

BHILASH- 1

file

(1) has sort of story artion as cosplaint of le coup lanide

(s) Bosto d to do 610008 ole Laza doors

do D0U011 wald ll0e do sprat vita CORDER un they should tato the mont

plase for 1r1n.

Do They on got the Dels 159ttn v1ttoes A02a7) or sollet.

---

## Page 2

GadBE- COT

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

• ano muddu

: 006-18,823

NGNOTI NIS CHSRO SO YITTA tO G8S MiS. THIA BI USTiLLY "Tick" dis soe

dO iOCRNE lA flloNiaE dy MORti", à jiii INlasi d= terta tO 1os M1a

SOCININ FIINID UONILLVI:INLITT. NICE: CO:A NGHIPI OTE

toe phose cimt he lnes nooblat disul sse noetlag, Antitíl eben loin ebe

METt PiRO: 105 PAMLA ANA LALET LONDOS ViAPDEO/I tO LELL VUIFORI EDRE AMLLSN,1

RAI UECILES 18D1 8O EIEi M1ES AULIRHiA Y SDA STEREST. MÓNMIS/I Eben LeTe

sor tew lork Cily tia Hors.

In EDe ment1an duIDttil mad oone to lm o1ts esree of l1e sen apparully

deraruirod lo no Aitiill. De sent Iheuh to radrle.

Jida A told ePoaTh

EBML ANRIDITiI MOULA LINA tO APORS MIM CLLTAS NNTIP/A, ANAIZ. 1 SE LUOPAIN

But tbar se coul1 not ome lo 3palA leguiy SeCHsa G! le Sierr Ael

IDEIdENtO FUBMPTiI COLA IS0O I LDGE AMNIP ) vAS Lo IEN JUTA slty eus

aaal led mo lalenlles ai merlee Mlh duartual, ee leaee fog yle poecet,

and UbnE e CORTrrSAtIOn tliE VMiC vOulI noL chiage nebinS AuliiI

IOBIOCOd On LITLRA LO dOS ARLLiÁ/I M.El MeCE :O PArLE OIEE EO 0S ALA MN,

one of ubon le Idea I.

6.

00 2L DICANJer GUGPORT FOCENTEd A LETLET DON NSITP 1 LA MAM TOrt COL11a

QUSPIKE:

A. AMANHA ALd DOR VUNE CO NO0S MIES AMIIDE/ beERURE of peEurlty.

D AYIASOA MILI THEEE DO SEEN NE tDA NN OS EANTY IPCURAN

e. ARSABN/1 BAS A PIONA LACA dI VANE lhe sOLUtLOn Ls lO l PatDIRI proble.

d. N6108/l me oonras to burope ebortly end ha hopal tbe drte dl me c0ula

get togrtber.

To AMIARI,l pbonod se sraa Purlo on tha fpal of locenber to voll me he vouia be

hore on

t6 Decenter and that he rould lry to say at un lnteasy. uupolt

told hin abom hHtirn'o locces.

B. O1 22 Drorubor A5ID04il phoned no (QUSPOTE)) and toll ne tho fallorisg:

•. A mantlne of all farons 1n naoounary.

Di TO COlL NTAGH ERRE EDE 'NACNIONAN" MANt dO tALE bIR POr CDO iNGAOLAELeN

(810) and tãat M1th tsa rallere of sho Esy of Mles Se, AYBIDDY/1, bad

ond a very titrer erpartanie, ibur vus feld oft sa biood snd ju1d

Ul1 DOONURA oS the LacOnAistenelEs of AserioRA Palley.

E. Itnt be bes moder his ora control lhs seccarary furces la produaae,

oguthor vita NGASIVl, a dEMadl ectian viebout uy outalso bely e

eTua aninot anjont 's s1l1

u.5.

o le me gotos tass to JuRDe for a fer daya en che t3rl ef Ibomber e

ciasbsy d fnr tine aod thes bact to Puls.

A. DAS rOTMCLOCA oI AILAU l'o Goclolas lo Mento tO MIrRt MItA MIRORE/2

1. That da voa ednllas Idan A lO MadrlA On 23 Docubor do dão ocNtarE me.

606:U0E/) Paumd up bão opdadon ao pollor:

A- RAgANdions eI Mssover EaLanitos 10 Ereu, lDa altantion da Sut 2I 000952l

Do ID VIEN Ol ALl CDO ELOURMLarCeS I t N0t EUAR MiASA/l ela fo en mca

LOGor VieA thle conarirec; Ml"hout taksii nome delfalte 861108 O5 1013

dincorerod asa i seal thal MMiAsil'l tnore 1e.

e. I foed thln 18 lhe momune "o meoruider un rhalo buntenro and domo out

vite vom sgociste luas to le vortnl out toor.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTITUATION OF

DISPATCH

do something hus to do dose vittia see bert tou digo.

0341-28, 123

18 kept full triorard on a0y

то нигор.

89 Roomber 1901,

• Attacimate: Ilont1t100 A nd 1, under sosarato cover

autributton:

00s, [

78/0560, 4/0/0

cissorrarion

---

