# 104-10186-10273

## Page 1

104-10186-10273

PNEORI

ON KERORT

CENTRAL IN ELLIGENCE AGENCY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

RETURN TO CIA

coUNTry Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00695-64

SUWECT RamirO RODRIGUEZ GOmeZ

DATE DISTR. 25 August 1964

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFQ

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURSE FLADINOS ARE DEFINIIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer nio served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personalits

Information provided by the source and includes supplements

Information

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals

without first checking with this Agency.

Ramiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez is the Chief of the Direccion

General de Intelisencia (General Directorate of Intelligence

DGI) in Brazil.

Headquarters Comments

1. In a report dated 8 June 1955,

a representative of this

Agency obtained the following information from an official

Cuban Servico:

3/Pd

that RODRIGUEZ, an actise Party member and director of

the Comate de Lucho, was a former candidate for councilman

Socialiss Popular (PSP). lle has not

been admitted into the usion.

5

4

STATE

I DIA

L ARMY.

REP CINCHANT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

INSA

MObAN "EN 89

I NAV

CINCSO F:: 1kIS

i oce

1 FBI 2

UNFORM

AH 'SA EOB

NI SA. XUB

TONIRERO!

WE/SR D/CI/LLA

WELL MADR

CURSA

ORMATION REROR!

-I disit!

RID/AL

1371541

50 PROJECT (AMMUG/!

ESCI-316/00695-61

•COORDINATING

WH/SA 7 (1),

WEI (2), CIA, SID 1

1191800 +

WAK

LD: SWk

FAIRSE 800

201-331829

5

4

3

2

1

---

## Page 2

F. CR

E T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

= 2-

2:

3.

4.

5.

6.

.7.

A usunlly reliable source, in a report dated 2 March 1962, reported

on the travel of Cubans through Rio de Janeiro during November

and December 1961.

Included on the list was Ramiro RODRIGUEZ

Gomes wo arrived from Habana on 27 November 1961.

He carried

Diplomatic Passport Number 570 with Visa number D-407 Issued in

Habana on 27 December 1961.. Iis date and place of birth were

given us 11 March 1928, in Habana.

A usually reltable source, in a

that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez was the First Sccretary of the

Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.

• do ya rose at fort date a pl 2, sate

An unknown source, in August 1962, reported that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ,

who arrived in Brazil on 28 December 1961, as First Secretary,

formerly the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy

in Venezuela

and was identified as a G-2 agent there.

He was born

11 March 1928. He was Secretary General of the Match Industry

Workers' Union before 1961, at a time when it was in the hands

of the Communists.

In a report dated 20 December 196%, a fairly reliable source gave

the following information on Ramiro RODRIGUEZ, Charge d'Affaires

of the Cuban Embassy

in Rio de Janeiro.

He is about five feet

eight inches tall, 150 pounds, has a mall mustache, black hair,

swarthy complexion, dresses well, is very poised socially,

has a quick mind and is rather introverted. He was born about

= L

in a report dated 28 December 1962,

said that Kamiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez is suspected Cuban intelligence.

Since December 1961, he has been the First Secretary.at the

Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro. He was formerly the First

Secretary at the Cuban Embassy in Caracas and was said to be

head of G-2 there and responsible for organizing the November

In a report dated June 1963 an unknown source said that his

assistant was told by Ramiro RODRIGUEZ that there would be almost

a complete changeover of personnel shortly; he added that only

the Commercial Attache, Camilo DOMENECH Gaden, would not be

roturning soon to cube

It was reported in August 1963, that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ, former

Charge d'Affaires of the Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro,

still in Rio de

Janeiro, apparently he had not completely briefed

new ambassador.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1/pd

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

18 August 1963, for Cuba and returned to Rio de Janciro on

• 28 November 1963.

Source observed that RODRIGUEZ has been

do a bad humor since his return and is rude to his former

frlends, including Nivea Brasil. wife of the Communist,

Colonel

Jocclyn BRASIL.

RODRIGUEZ and Mrs. BRASIL were on

very

RODRIGUEZ spurns her attempts at being chummy again.

terns (according to source, adultorous) source

feels that RODRIGUEZ is up to something Special and notes

that he is in close contact with General Luiz Gonzaga LEITE,

the organistr of tho Cuba Solidarity Congress. Accordine

to RODRIGUEZ®

RODRIGUEZ was born on !1 March 1928,

in Habana.

Hys wife is Isel DOMINGUEZ de Armas and they

have one

daughter, Eva RODRIGUEZ Dominquez, who was born

about 1950.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES

---

