# 104-10308-10088

## Page 1

1104-10308-10088]

DISPATCH

FICATION

TO

SECRET

PRO

POSED

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

INFO.

FROM

- PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS

DEST

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

Chief of Station, IMWAVE

SUBJECT

RYBAT/TYPIC/Operational/ AMYUM/FINA

Intelligence Debriefing Reports - Operation FINA

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: None, FYI

m4r58

REFERENCE: WAVE-6654 dated 30. March 1963

MICROFILMED

JANS 1YJA

Transmitted herewith, FYI, are copies of

all intelligence

debriefing reports on Operation FINA exfiltrees.

END OF DISPATCH

ACCOM

PLISHED

per CE C1-3

Attachments:

NOT MICROFILiA

Intel

Reports (7)

herewith

..n 15

The folleri:

Signed: -

R.0. #151

Note:

MOB

destruction,

TitH

rossing cad coordinate

if appropriato.

Distribution:

3 - C/SAS, w/atts/B/W*

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Cran TaMine, 99g

•3*4

CLAS

SECRET

DATE TYPED

19-131-3%

DATE DISPATCHED

12 Apr.

63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA- 8466

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

! "?

19-132-5-32/3

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SUBJECT

DEBRIEFING

In August 60 Subject begar working in resistance activities in the Propaganda

11KET IN

(DINGINON

Section of the MAR orgonization. In the Propaganda' Section Dibject worked for

Juantiaicon zaata

on

reak-endsonly as she wus a school tuches in Cuunue in Pinar del Rio. Nor work

was the distribution of anti-government litorature, solling MAR bonds

and

recruiting people for typeofwork in the croa

of Guetes.

In May 61 Subject loft her job as school teacher and came

to

Havens to work

full time for the MAf organization. Although

"boo" was still assigned to the

Propaganda Section she worked for all coctions

of the MRR organization rsinly

as a courier.

On 26. July 61 Subjoct was involved in an sotion to kill Fidel Castro at the

26th of July coremony et the Plaza Civic: The cotion was to kill Fidel Castro

by firing a bazooke shell at the

e spacer a plailora: Iris action

failed because

p.------o60

of a defective firing devise in the bezocki

On returning to abject's regidence,

a militiano halted

and demarded

the

car in wnich subject was a pensenger,

to search

As Eins were

concealed in the car, the militiano was snot and

subject wes

forced to

change

her placeof

residence;

During the period August 61-May 62 Subject Gravulled throughout Cuba with

that th

time was inu Civil Coordinetor foi tau HaS ChaG-dy"

wo wore its iction section.

Her funotion

was to provide cover to

the

porson she trivillied with as the security forces

would' not normelly check a man travelling with & wonon. Subject remenbered

the following names of cuople that she contected in her

travels:

n..) *

the Ho-guin area.

217:CUN12

В сізн

c .

General Coordinator for Careguay Province oF th li

core to Hevone .

• tary Coordinator for Oriente Provincopand the inve

GRoup

Excluded from Aarmalli

downgrading and

declassliication

---

## Page 3

13-00000

d.

numed joking

in Santange do Cuta.

croll lunch countier in that city am lio place was a meetingplace

{Or MR resistanceorganication in taut. city.

'e

and

in santo Glura, Lea Villas

On May 8, 62 Sibject, was to meet!

1o fintlive arrongements for selling

a car.

stated that if he did not show for the meeting scheduled at

11600

thot

would meet subject. at 1600 Subject met

who stated

ithst

could not moke the meeting as ho

went to meet his wife. NOTE:,

LATER SUBJECT HEARD THAT

JUIRE MADE A CULE TO ONE OF THERR SAFENCUSES

AT 2300 AND INCUIRED ABOUT

SUBJECT ALSO STATED. THAT

AS HE MAD NOT N3T

HER ASHAD BEEN ARRANGED.

WIRE GAS A MILITIANO BUT STATED

THAT ZHE

REASON FOR HER BEING 1 MILITIANO WAS TO POCVIDE COVER FOR

ACTIVITIES.

WHEN I ASKED SUBJECT IF

WIFE WAS A COMMUNISI

SHE STARDO NO.

On 9 May 62 subject vas catactod by

who staied that her

brother

hed been arrested, andthat hor brother ned told her

•to alert other's in the MaR organization.

subjeet tried to catact

but

a strange voice enswered the telephone and started to ack question.

Subject

broke off

the conversation. At 1400 Subjeco sot with

and tried to warn other in the Ma orgonization by baking telephone

from the: Libra Hote.

on 12 May 62 Subject wes contacted byl

lest name posaibly

e muletto who worked with a sture

at

that the

hended the Action section for coordinating guerrilla und

resistance

actions

in the Provinces with the National Executive of ths Ma.

close to

brought

WEB very

frew HOLGUIN to work with hin in

Havend

after

wes burned in Holguin. After the MAR roll up in May 02,

was in contact with

whe in turn was in direct contect vita

During their conversation

"that day!

inforced abject

of the arreat of

MPR personnel, that he wasin contrict with

and

if she knew who had escaped the Ma roil wa

On 23 May 62 Subject vas

it' be to citican

contacted b

end astied aibjuot

who in the MER orgonization was

still free. Sutject informed

THAT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

311822-318:"

the only persons still flee

were

cormented that it wes

miracle

toat

Pill

had not beon pichta do tran

as he nas a loose talkor and hedpoor

personal security.

aubject then

arranged

a meeting between

then she has not heard fron

eno

during the latter part of Nay

62. Sinco.

NORE: WHEN INHINT/27.WAS WAS LTRATED

INIC CUBA DURING THE LATTER PARE CE MAY SA HE CONTACTED

During this period Dubject heard that

had arranged a recting with

and when he arrived at the mecting place he was arrested.

did

not show for this meeting.

During the latter part of May

called abject und stated that he

had a meeting arranged with

but thst

did not show for the meeting.

A few dayslater SUBJECT heard that

had bour arrested.

During the first days of June 62L

contacted subjeet and informed her

that.

had

informadon

stated thot an effort

should be made to reorganizo the MRR. Tarough

sabject had hoard

that

eile tender to vocino Biation of the MRo was tryinE to

regreenize the Mailed danger utens dateon

and

This meeting

took place in a public pork with SUEJEOT,

and

INFORMED BY

of the Student

Section presort.

NOTE:

110 137)

• CUBA

SEx

SISTER OF

IN MARCH 63

SUBJECT WAS

THE HAS

BEEN

SHOWN

SURVEILLANCE

PICTURES OF SUBJECT

AND OTCRES KEET ING

IN A PUBLIC

PARK.

To

SUBUECT'S XNOWLEDGE THIS HAD BEEN THE CHLY CANE ONE FAD

MET

UND

IS

FOSITIVE THAT THE SURVEILLANCEPICTURE WAS SAXEN

OF

THE

NEETING IN THE

PUBLIC

PARE IN MID JUNE O&:

WAS ARRESTEN IN MAX 62 AND WAS IMPRISCHED IN LA

CABANA PRISON WHERE HE COULD BECEIVE VIGITORS. At this meeting subject stated

that

Was going to appearon television prior to

appearanceon

T.V.

NOTE: ALTHOUGH

AND

NERE CIOSELY CONNECTED WITH THE

NATIONAL EXECUTIVE OF THE URR NEITHER WORE ARRESTES IN THE KAY 62 ROLL UP.

Subject stated that during the KAP soll

up

ahe

was never arrested or to

her knowledge surveilled. subject did

not try to hide as

she

had no eafehouse

}:..

---

## Page 5

13-00000

or contacis. to utilive. Subject is positive

G-2 could

arrested her, at any time if and when they

cecided it was necessary.

Subject stated that the

women arcesuod

in

the inn roll up were all

released.

Subject believes that

she was

not arrested because of

the Cuban.government. policy. not to arrest and imprison women involved

in tho NAl rosiotanoo organication, and bocuose sho was only a courioi

in

the organization.

Subject was informed in March 68 by

that her

brother

had been shown mmerous surveillance pictures

of

Subject and

by Cuban interrogators in la Cabana

prison:

The interrogators wanted

to identily the peopio

in the photographs making contact with Subject

and

stated that an interrogator noned aLAinIno haa

D°-BA IINlE1120

süatiod son s

to

that. the Cuban security forces laer everything that was

going on in the resistance movenent. They permitted these resistance

organization to organizo and exist sati? iù was decided to roll up

the group. SALGUEIRO cited as an example a suali lak group that had

reorganized itself after June

62 unöor the leadership

and

In February 63,

was arrested:

SALGUEIRO also stated that the boother of

was distributing MRR money to differoni peonie in Havana.

[executed

Aftér AMBRONC/5 was killed during the latter part of August 62,

was arrested by the G-2, kept in prison for a month

and then

released. Since thor Subject ha, seen

in the streets of llavana

but has not had contact with him

since August 62.

From July 62 - until her extiltration

subject has not parsicipated

in any clandestine work.

---

