# 104-10215-10058

## Page 1

104-10215-10058

SECRET

17 AUG 1962

TO

Chief, WE Division

ATTEN. :

J WE/S

FROM

:

SUBTECT:

Room 3B 2613

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

LETTER ADDRESS

#278 830

Reference 18 made to your memorandur dated 1l August 1962

requesting the establishment of a post office box

in New Jork City

In the name of kumphrey R. BONCAVIL.

2.

This will confirm advice furnished your Office on 17 August 1952

that the requested address has been establisbed as follows:

Box 892

veneral Post vile

New York 1 New Tarl

This address will be maintained for an indefinite period of time

and idll be serviced once a week.

"pon receipt of mail, it will be forwarded

Room 3B 2613.

4. Ilon-registered, first class and eir nail, bearing the above

acress as a return address, may be mailed by you at any convenient

letter box in the area where this facility 1s established.

Registered

mil and parcel post should be forarded to this Office for secure

ma 11 ing.

Any nail having special security significance should be co-

ordinated with this Office prior to mailing. Mail bearing the above

address as a return address should not be handled by the Central Mail

Room.

5. It 1s requested that you advise this office when the above

address is no longer of use to you.

Any inquiries concerning this

facility should be directed to the SD/3 Desk of this Office, Room GE T3

Langley, extension 6851.

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SECURITY:

for victor

San her host

SECRET

6608P 1

EN ATALAN BE

faciazsiticaties

---

