# 104-10102-10037

## Page 1

104-10102-10037%

CENTA

ITELLIGENCE AGENt.

COUNTRY

SUBACT

Acó

SOURCE

Title

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

OST PAGE I09 3 PAl

DATE DISTA.

CS-311/03616-68

18 April 1068

Cuba.

17 Yobruary 1968 and December 1987

Identssscatson and Locatsor

of Political Prisoner!.

Rec 22

15-2

(11 March 1968)

PIECONO. (084)8876

A momber of a group of Cuban emigres who have been trained In

the techniques of Information collection and who have provided

usolul reports since early 1902.

The Information was obtained

Iron the Cuban emigros Identified below.

Subsource of

Eugenio Tanez Villet for,

Bereabe

of lavan Caly who left Cubs on 19 February 1963.

Tases

was

imprisoned for als years

and eight months and was

released

Jesus Yanez, former aide tO Fidel Castro,

some La Cabana on & January 186, se serving 15"

ute brother en

17

February 1968, on whies date

last vialted his brother os

he was held 10 galers 340

the following were among ti

Jose Luis/Callarat

Fernando Sanche

mael del.

Mero

•Sosa/Chabau (Inu

Juan Valdes Norejon

Conzalo Mranda Carcia

Baatiago Verdeja •

Alberto Blance

Orlando Castro

Alberto, Crus

David Salvados

Rafael, Venender

Aponte

Luis 'do Posada

Mario, Salavarrin

Krug Long (U.S. eltiz

wing 30 years

.

The prisoners In

TEROXED OMEMAL-RETAIL

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduan

Subject ta. Griminal Sanctions

Unauthorized Disclusure

NATIONAL SECURITY INFOTISTION

11977

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

sm.

5. 9 711

00)

20

---

## Page 2

REC 22

- 2.

? 1 0196A

1138669

1399

565-331/03648-68

but the food han boon very

had since January

and mearon..

food packago per month. 1,50l.

82 MAY 1 $ 1995, Mornando fernandes, who mas police entor endos

intista, died fu calera

31 of a hourt attack about 15 Fobruary

1968,

On 17 January 1968, Pastor Valdes Solina was shot It

La Cabana; he had been serving 30 years but hnd escaped from

• work farm and attempted to leave Cuba clandestinely.

When

he was tripped on the coast, he wounded one of his pursuers,

was taken

to In Cabana and shot.

Subsource of

paragraphs 4 and S: CC-3573, Albor Julie

• Perez

• Perez,

a Cuban relugee

ant Torter resident of Santo

/ Ins Villas Province,

who left Cuba on 6 January 1908,

worked on the Ceneral Gusev Farm Group until December 1967.

The Coneral Guser Farm Group comprises about 6, 000

eaballerias of land that eatend southward fron La. Paloma

Itary base, Los Arabos Township, to the town of Aguada de

Pasajeros, las Villas Province.

The farm group was

transferred from the MININT tO the IPRA in 19G7; 1t la under

military administration and most of its labor force consiste

of political prisoners, of which there are more than 700:

employed in far labors. Major Fajardo in Iarm group

director: Orestes lurtado, •lloutenant, holds an important

pout at the far group.

The following politieal prisoners were among. thor

working at the Goneral Gusev Farm Group:

Code evere, olen teena, lumberto veron, rafa torado

cerardo foras, Jul16 Feble, Mis Pulido, Rason Gonzalez,

Alberto Calver, Jullo calver, Juan Perez, Everardo, Salda"

'CastrO, Jose, Gonzalez, LazarO MArIn,

Field Dissen: lose.

411.977

• NO FOREIGN I IBSEN

---

