# 104-10166-10158

## Page 1

104-10166-10158

VAC

MATERIAL REVIESED AT CIS MEADQUARTEES BY

HOUSE SELECT COSMITTEE ON ASSASSISATIOYS STAFE MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUXBER, VOLUNE:

50-1382

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL. UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NANE)

LESHE WIZELNAN

JAMES Po KELLY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

keshi Wagelman

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FRON THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

pdt 29 jen 50

50-1987

SECKET

* 1=3

APPROVAL MORE RECORD

BACID: +8 068168

8166 80.

67378

SUALECEIPILE

In onE C961)

NAME CHECH A INVESTIGATIVE RECORD

DATE

158UL0

CHECE 10D

Bate

..0.A

PRO 1'!

•.a.

FRESH

1 9 91

RACES

0P3

P.C.n. A.

TRACES:

PRoP..

APP :

14D I

INDICES:

DIVISION

Sever

SECRET

126a

---

## Page 3

14-00000

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

ECRET

= Pelled de,

REQUEST FOR PRESENT ODERATIONAL

STATIS OF SUBJECT

Chool s

• Chier, CI/Operational Approval asd Support Divialon

26 1200 15%

50 101

revien of the files of CI/CA jo Doing nado for she purpose of rotirlag tiles

on corere personnel who:

40 No longer are being uned;

(0) Do nos sarloty the roguirements for operational approval:

(a) Aro of no further laterest so the office of original request.

CI/01 recorde indicate the subjest has been of interent to you

1952

fOr: MaPpING WORK

operational une.

Informational purposes

It 10 requested that you notify CI/OA of the present operational status of

subfoot, using the bottom of this form for your rent.

If no anwer is received from you within 30 days, CI/CA will assume that you

are no longer interested in the subjeot and will retire the file hithout further

notifloation to you.

COMMENTA FROL OFFICE OF ORIGIN

700

A GET ADE

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

• Is.

: CRE

falled la

D016, a tent, i is

REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIONAL

STATUS OF SUBJECT

TO

FRON,

SUBJECT

Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

rovion of sha files of CI/DA 18 being nado for the purpose of rotiring Pilos

on covere personnel who:

No longer are being used;

(D). Do not sailory she requirements for operallonal approval;

(o) Are of no further intereat to the office of original requess.

¿ CI/OA recorde indiente the subject has been of interest to you

for:

since

Soporarional use

- Informational purposes

It le requented that you notify CI/OA of the prement operational status of

moject, uning the bottom of this form for your comment.

If no answer in received. from you within 30 daya, CI/CA will assume that you

are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file wichout further

notification to you.

COMMEHTA FROM OFFICE OF ORIGIN

We Quit bore

DI ATHI AUTIONI

700

I TO ADDE

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

(thes Falled de)

REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIGHAL

STATUS OF SUBJECT

sATA

b 1an 156

5o1787

TO

FRO

SUBJECT

: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

A review of the filea of CI/DA 16 being made for the purpose of retiring files

on cover, personnel who:

No longer are being used;

(b) Do not satiafy the requirementa for operational approval;

(o) Are of no furcher Interest to the office of original request.

2.

aince

CI/OA recorde indiante the subjeat has been of internat to you

195°2

POSE MAPPING

I operational use

informatlonal purposes

It 1e requested that you notify CI/CA of the present oporational atatue of

subjet, uning the bottom of this form for your comment.

If no anower lo received from you within 30 days, CI/QA will assume that you

no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file without further

notification to you.

FROM OFFICE OF

ORIGI

send guiry to

CI/DA PILI

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECURITY INTORMATSN

SECRET

8 February 1952

167378

Do Mles of C2, Department of the Army, were chucked in Subject's nam

on 5 February 1952.

A filo in the nama

was reviewed

and disclosed the folioning Informations

In a lotter to the Commanding General, 2nd Ary, Port George G. Meado, Mary

land from Intelligence Division, General Staff, U. S. Aruy, washtrigton, Do Cos

dated 25 May IItô, the Investigationa Section states that information hua boon

received from the Plans and Operations Divialon, General Staff, U. So Army,

11a180n agesty vith tha.U. So Atoude Energy Comission, for the Department of the

Any, that

Mas granted "" clearance on 2 Pebruasy 19li9.

Illn further reflects tbut the FBI conduoted investigations on 10 Jamunsy

1949 at Cincimati, Oh10 and 12 January 1949 at Pittabuigh, Pennaylvania rogardo

Ang Sabject.

Siero oNLICE

LEB SO 8 28 04.25

CHICYCO

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECURIT NESESATION

SECRET

Case Nos 67378

8 ADJII 1952

STIOPSIS:

SUBJECT presentiy resides at

He 1a married, has a son, about 25 years of age. SUBJECI

attended obio State University from 1935 to 1939, receiving a

B.S.C. dogree. He was formerly employed as a garage mechanie

In Hilliard, Chio and 18 presently Assistant Director of a Fe

wearch Foundation at the Ohio State Univeraity. Neighborhood.

avestigation was extrenely favorable, nothing of a derogat

nature was developed. Credit favorable and Police negative.

SUBJECT reportedly investigated by the federal Bureau of In

vestigation.

Tints data la proporty di legallori ind Securily Offles, to be so.

Azad When suistoct in no ionger covertly unr. les eristence or

coatente muel not be disclosed except do ClA Stali Osta

outly conourine

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

Case lios 67378

BIF TH AND CIA ZONSHIP:

8 18812 1952

IDUCATIOUS

A8 Columbas, Onlos

The recordo of the Registrare Office, Oble State Indurelty

en 21 February 1952, revealed that SUBJECT und a student from

1935 to 1939, at which time he gradusted with a B.S.C. degree.

EXPLODENT:

At columbus, abdos

On 7 February 1952, the recorda of the Ohio Burma of

Crodits revealed that SUBJECT 1s presently the Assistant Dire

ter of the fusearch Foundation of the Ohio State University, Upon

(raduntion fron O.S.U., or shortly therafter in December 1939,

SUBJECT us employed by the university as Assistant Fraternity

Anditor. He later noved fron that position to that of Ausistant

Director in 1946. Prior to the time, he was employed sa a mech

ante in

HIllardo, Ohio.

→ Colambes, Onlos

On 2 April 1952, 1t was deterdned that SIRECT residos 1n

an apartment building

nour the unle

versity.

stated that

she ban known the SUBJECT and his wife since the time of their

moving in the building, which was about three years ago. She

denoribed them an foot subatsital people" and sided that sua

JCT in the Asiatant Director of the Fasearch Foundation, Ohio

Stato Univereity. He 10 most capable, likenble and renpestable

man and enjoys a fine reputation in the building and in the

neighborhood generally. She further stated that the fer haci

vutigated hin several years ago, apparently in connection nil

•Nio Job at the Foundation. She deworlbed SUBJECT and lie vite na

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

ORDO NOs 67378

8 AprIl 1953

"apper middle elass" vich one son, about eventy-five yore of ago

who is marrled and resides out of Ohio, although he la precently

staying vich bla folka because hia nife 1s in a hospital in

Columbus with their newly arrived baby. Informant stated that sha

Inor nothing but good relmtive to SUbJECT and his family and

that he 1a truly a patriotle Americas.

stated thnt she has kom Stitch end his wile as neiga

sors and that they are fine pesple, respected in the community

and are conservative in their 11ving and habita.. They have one

son, Ed, who 1s preently sayies with them. SUBJECT, according.

to Informant, 18 "bomey" and does not drink or have any bad

labits to ber knowledge. She considere him a one-tungred per

cent American.

stated that she has been acquainted with the SUBJECT and

his vile for about & yoar as neighbors. She iner little about

than except that tbey are nice people and mll thought of in

the neighborhood, They are quiet, do not enfage in many social

activities. Inforant confirmed SUBJECT's employment and added

that she knew of nothing of a deregatory rature regarding the

SUBJECT or he fantlyo

ntated that

she has rown subtect and nus into Just tarue yura or since the

*ine they moved Into the bullding, three joara ago this monthe

She stated that she llled than very much and knew of no finer

people, They are respected in the comnity and are quiet and con

servative, SUBJECT neither drinka or carouses and 1a a "hobody",

"xcept that he plays a great deal of golf with her husband, In

ferment atated that SUBJSCT's son

18 pmsently with SUBJECT

coming here fron west virginia for the arrival of their newborn

youngster. She added that SUBJECT has a fine poistion with the

Romarch Foundation as Assistant Direator, and 1a a thurough.

American.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

eincs.,

Code to: 67308

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SEES NIGELTA

23 ATH 55a

SECRET

SECRET

PETION: As

& Chias, Special Security Dirtalon

867270

1:j1t

1.

Referance la made to gour requent datod 21 Duennher 1951

for

• recommondatlon as to whether an Oparational Clearance arould be granted

to paralt the Subjoot's no as dover 1n Darepo saler dever of DO

Ploymento

She authority of an Oporational Clourance in the capedty sot forth do you

requento

Thia menorantan pertains ohly to the sustement mentioned In

Paragraph 1 above.

It 1a requested that this offion be Inforand of your

deeinton au to whether you intend to unn the Subjeel, Il the subjeet 18

not used, the attached uterial should be returned to the writer in a

wenlod enelope narked "Eyes Only," Indicating the reasons for not using

the subjecto

FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, CIA!

Attaoimente:

N0Đ 2/29/52

Tave spto 3/9/52

Moso Date

SIORET

SECRET

+B.418 38

---

## Page 13

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

SFCRET

COVERT MAME CHECK REPORT

DAT: 19 Februnry 1952

SUBICT: GoboD.

67378 0e 060

Is accordance with your request, a eevers name ebeel

mas conduesed on subjeet with resules as indiented belon!

BETUR

DATE

-316

-еде

ĐTATH

216

2/5

-2/2

10/22/50 - Investigation revealed nothing derogatory regering

Inbject's

character, reputation, employment, naighborhood, and

«maociates.

"tes data là property al Inspection and Suetty Ollion" to bei so

darned when subfect is no longer coverty usost. Ils existence ar

aristonts muot nof bo discond escept lo CLA Stall Ottons

Arnatly comonred

000 4 10: 20-48

SECRET

---

## Page 15

PZ-23575

011- NR

ONT- NR

157e652.

1987

Talkel o

Aula.

: Calledostave

Chela ter

Ret tre

Callsd

Olar. tor

C10n2782

1í9 Jou 1903)

wellsion,

cear

4y6si4,

Fe649.

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

---

## Page 17

Ostrueliasr

Braie h 15 21 lest ptetr pe.

050 researct

Foundaluu

BSC - Busadi 1939

ohuo 1kct Ui

1934-1942

ant andelos

леслі ори

tas beeu ant & Durecla

Reseaichi Ferudelee1419942

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

TO

Attn:

FRO::

Chief, Special Security Division

SCLIPA

Dato 37 Desreher 1952

SUBJECTS

.P.2. # 2359

8721

Ao DADLINES

(1)

(2)

_(3)_

_(4)_

_ (5)_

Bo CiLIBiCTER OF CiSE: (1)0.G. = (2)P.O.G. = (3)C.N.G._ (4)C.S.G.__(5)P•_

Go CLISSIFICATIOs ident Clericzi Survice. Other Dover

Do 17d8 Surope & liddle cast Far Fast Latin inerica Specifie

Bo SUBLET'S COVERS U.S. Gorte

_Fore Gorto_

Acadente

Cocorcial Relielous

Professional Pres. Empl. 8

Undesignated

Other

Fo ACTIONs Investigation, including covert name chacks. &

Covort name checks only

Development of biographic data

Boply aa soon as possible re lis check FBI check_

Other

Special nane checks_

SUGGESTED COVER FOR INVESTIGATION!

General US. Government intarest

Hon government, commercial interest

Special

The chief of the intorested Division has cortified that 0S0 operational

files and documunta contain no information of investigative or socurity

Interest in addition to that set forth in PRQ I and II. (Raviewer uy) _

Ploase roturn attachud PRQ Part I

Biog-Dat

of your action.

00 bas muted a rolenno for rabjeetle uno ly the Diviaton,

*Per telephone convarsation Malapea/flayon 29 Dao 51

---

## Page 19

14-00000

Tom.

"Ples mode poper changes

I replace Ocero isite,

the action became Orates crique

tim pratin ant

has tike don

pee I have rally done the cothe

laS: 29 Dee 51. Ott pagen

---

## Page 20

SECRET

C3-1124

21 facenter 1058

FEOU8

FUNSOR 8.

chief, PLas

Pa for Operasionnl Clearenes

Jon 20 December 1952, 18 18 rogunered that setion de talen

No mento provisional operatlonpl elecance

So Muldon so mocoutal eleranes, 18 1u ploanol do hivo a

myrenatative of TDU centnes

thrench as appolatmnt arinenl

→ CO to dotermino 18 so venlA do villing to preparo a laster from tha

Poundation In few Terk.

Dumtont of thie Inster vonla Introden und ponnor finantally Ma

"INUNITION OIA DOJONS DULnE CAPELAl ent Dy 820 AnppSaR and Chartim

Imperatory. l

7 *L

Foundation bass €

Donaldorable anoiaonlited progra, herever, and fre conniesion with

OJA de son pullioly imoui.: I0 10 undorstood that/

Ima all tho detailo ecsournine the esparanoes.

TU ln erronly nanous de caplate there apprenmento, ami

matter

SECRET

---

## Page 21

14-00000

JEFICE MESSAGE

• Taft:

LANE DUISCH CALLIG

IN PERSON

DISREGHED

Please

sto up

рос.

we albert

teleshand

The to

on 2220e.

F7118: 36-9

cro EE -742 -AB

HCUA

CARдИЗВ:

esc

FBI - NCI

neg

ment

111987

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SECRET

1;9

ROLTING AND RECORD SHEET

STRUCTIONS: Officer designations shouid be used in rhe -TO": siumn. Under each comment a lina should be dramn deross sheet

a'1 each comment numbered la correspond min te natider in the -TO" column.

berate further routing.

Each officer should initial (check mark insutficient)

This Routing and Record Sheat should be returned to Registry.

FROm:

1o.

DATE

TO

Chief, PLAsS

ROOM

NO

DATE

OFFERS

H:13006:14:

21 Dee 1951

COMMENTI

STC/SP3

RICO

Entered 36 Dee 51

BY HAND ONLY

ile

27/045

TR5MN®. B8m18

SECRET

site

---

## Page 23

SECRET

SECURITE INFORMATISS

C3-1124

Frlority

21 December 1951

Chief, STC/SPB

BUBJECT:

Beguest. for Operational Clenrance

1. V1th roferenco to the conteruation

on 20 December 1951, 1t 10 renanted that aetion be talen

Docure provinional operational clearance

ubinet to maccessia, a maranor.

representative of FDI contaet

*Y O0 to dotermino 11 ho muld de villing to prepare a lottor

Foundation In Hew. York.

sentent of this lotter vould introduce and sponnor Sinancially as

nont whom fil has arranged to send to one of the

under sponserahip of the Amstenn.

Foundation.

and hia assistantl

already pouseu

• CIA elenrence up to and ineluding "Sacrot® in connection with a

Innified CIA projest boing carried out by the Napping and Charting

Imberntory

Foundation has a

conniderable uneinnsifiod program, howver, and 1t0 connuetion with

OIl do not publioly knon. It lu understood that

lns all the dotallo concernine the eloarancos

IN to extronly antions to cemplete then arrangomnte, and

1t would be appreciated 11 you would treat thie roguest an a priority

mattere

SECRET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SüCh.ET

APFOTT AU PROCLORICN EREC:

mhiratlonal Clarines anri: Saout

SPB FiTu 1:0. 1982_

Hame

"(check;

(dato)

PRQ I

Division Iracis

Ol Files

Orcen List

Staff C

Local Ficld Tracce

Othor Ficld Tracea

Ixs Indicas

Ies Covort Raport

Is Invustigation

Toreg data

rroject

Ruvirred

EFFASJANIY

Sartp,EFB, 2n. 19E2c. 1763

Operational Cloaranco 23 lo SiAY

Y 1952

Operation Reviewed

Sase15 GaN52

Ie wite, flelgphen coss.

PRQ II

---

