# 104-10096-10251

## Page 1

104-10096-10251

UNCLASSIFIED•

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO. IDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optjonal)

FROM:

Congressional Investigations of the Agency

EXTENSION

NO.

6009

FFICER

VITIA

DATE

13 October 1976

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Draw a line ocross column after each comment.)

Security Analysis Goup

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

RECEIVED

1. Deputy Inspector Gen.

101

2 E 24

113,

2.

3.

4.

File-Tok She fle

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

5084

610 USE PREMOUS

SECRET

FORWARDED

Moot

FBI will get

back to me

Re: uhase f Their

does to House

Commitlée.

Stew

paro f. used

DIOLC , this done.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Reproduce

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• :

13 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

:

Deputy Inspector General

SUBJECT

:

SecurIty Analysis Group

Congressional Investigations of the Agency

1. Per our discussion, I would like to throw out the

following thoughts with relation to establishing a set of

procedures to handle requests from congressional committees

for information, with specific reference to the newly formed

House Committee

investigate the assassination of President

Kennedy, et al.:

a .

All requests from Congressional committees

should be directed to a given

focal point within

the Agency. Any requests levied directly on any

other component should not be accepted, and the

requester should be referred to the focal point.

The focal point should initially be com-

prised of Agency officers who have the benefit of

experience in dealing with congressicnal

investigations, and the assignment of these

officers should remain reasonably stable in order

to capitalize on this experience factor.

would, inevitably, require a rather long overlap

prior

to any reassignments.

C.

An action unit within each directorate

e officially designated to handle congressiona.

nauiries of this nature (I believe this ha:

already been accomplished) and again,

where

possible,

the experience factor should be taken

into consideration.

All requests received by the focal point

st mid to than that the kee sararo

units within

would be appropriate.)

---

## Page 3

The Review Staff Registry (now under

the control of the Executive Registry) be reacti-

vated and placed

under the direct control of the

focal point.

Two

registry officers be assigned

and slotted to this registry,

and for the immediate

future it would be preferable if the two officers

formerly assigned to the Review Staff Registry

be utilized.

f.

The newly designated Registry should

then

keep complete records on the following:

(1) Copies of all incoming congressional

requests.

Copies of the focal point's dissemi-

nation of the request to the various action

units within the Agency.

(3)

Copies of all responses received is trom

the action units.

Copies of the final response to the

congressional committee.

Records pertaining to any interviews

of current Agency employees by a congressional

committeevor

Members taff of that committee.

(6)

Records pertaining to any material

reviewed at the Agency by the staff or members

of a

congressional committee.

(7) Maintain an adequate index to the

above materials, which would preferably allow

for retrieval on the basis of date, subject

matter, and/or requesting committee.

As you know, the above suggestions represent my own

personal views, but I feel strongly that we are heading down a

ath leading to

the total disregard of all knowledge we have

gained during the last two years of extensive outside investi-

gation of the Agency. Since it is clear that these investigations

2

---

## Page 4

• .

will continue for the foreseeable future, it would seem to me

that we must fall back to our earlier posture of setting up a

unique and

separate organization within the Agency to handle

these inquiries

Staff was formed

for this purpose,

think a similar

required at this time.

3

---

