# 104-10071-10056

## Page 1

104-10071-10056

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATON

SECRET/RYBAT

• PROCESSING AU

PARKED FOR INDEXING

10

Chief, WOMUSE

XX

iNFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUAUFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FRCH

27, 12-35

Dire

MICROFILM-

SUBLECT

RYBAT/MHCURB)MHCHAOS - Vida Mae GAYNOR (201-86.7508)

ACTION REQUIRED - RIFERENCES

DU NUA KERODUCE

2nd

ACTION: File: in Subject's s:201:

mier or the

RETURN TO CLA

Cia

The following irformation on the Subject of 201-867508

was obtained by TOPOWll who hosted her at his home in mide

April 1971: Subject has been in Tanzania for 20 months.

She

expects to remain there permanently. She is employed by the

GOT as ax assistant to the Deputy. Chief Accountant, for thelesced

National Development Corporation.: She expects to-be: promoted:

to the post of. Deputy Chief: Accountant: on the first of May when

her present boss is himself advanced.. She claims to receive a

"good". salary plus a TS 2500/month house. for which she has to

pay only 10% with the GOT picking up the rest.

2. Subject grew up in Queens, New York, where she was

very active in the African-Methodist-Episcopal Church where

she net her husband 25 years ago.

She didn't finish high

school but: was a good typist and easily. found employment "with

the New York: Jews who realized they could hire a good black

secretary for 2/3: what they'd have to pay: a white."

She was

Mrs. Martin Luther King.

3. Subject was a member of the Jamaica Rifle Club,

organization created to teach Afro-Americans to shoot rifles.

She claims to have "fingered" two "infiltrators" who had been

recruited by the authorities to penetrate the organization.

She claims that her instructor was another infiltrator who

eventually testified in court, causing the organization to be

"busted."

Distribution:

Orig. & I - C/WOMUSE

0751/

CROSS REFBRENCETO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

(AKNA-6275

CLASSIFICATICA

-BODHT/RVRAT

DATE

30 April 1971

HOS FiLE NUMBER

---

## Page 2

AKI

1400000

4: " Subject, has two sons.

One, named Dennis (age 20), has

joined her In Dar es Salaamafter she set up a mechanism to

help him evade the draft and depart the country illegally.

She has another son who is 26 years of age who spent two years

in the Army.. He had been promised educational opportunities

by the recruiter. When denied these he studied abnormal

psych extensively and tried to feign mental illness, but was

instead put up for Court Martial for malingering.

A friend of

Subject, the founder of the "Serviceman's Union" helped spring

the

son.

5. Subject provides a home in Dar es Salaam for Daniel

FIRLey a 26-year-old son of a prominent electrical

contractor in Dayton, Ohio. After avoiding his draft call--

when his father couldn't buy it off--he was jailed, but released

on bail. He jumped bail and was put on a plane for Dar with a

note to President Nyerere to "

..-take care of my son." He's

been in Dar for two years. He has had three audiences with:

the President at which he as presented Nyerere with prototype

lathes and guns which he has himself produced in the technical

school where he teaches. He has promised to have a prototype

of an M-16 ready for display at an upcoming trade and industrial

tair.

6..

Subject provides housing and contacts for Afro-

Americans coming to Dar es Salaam. •OFOWL/1 describes her

political attitudes as

.. similar to a religious convert--

nore radical than the radicals.

She claims to be frustrated

with the slowness of the revolution in Tanzania suggesting

that experts from China and North Korea are needed, not those

from the West.

Burton L Korade

Burton L. KORADE

---

