# 104-10186-10153

## Page 1

104-10186-10153

INFORMATION REPORT

INEORMATION REPORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

he material containe laformalon alerting 1Do MalionN Dolores of lne Valled Starea Minto the menaina of 1h0 lay

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Rosita (LNU)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS CI316/0226965

26 May 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/02270-65

26 May 1965

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

RETURN TO CIA

PLACE &

Hashington,

Background Use Oniy

A FO UNGRA TO MOMATOR LOUIET OMANOR A PARO REPORT NO A CAN DO Not Reproduce

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agenry.

t is requested that the addressees take no action on any o

he individuals mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

1. Rosita (LNU) is a stewardess with Cubana Airlines. Prior

to joining Cubana she was employed as a telephone switchboard

operator by the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

2 .

nown Departmento de seru

State Security - DSE) official or a DGI official, but more

likely DSE.

She

is a synthetic strawberry blond and is about

five feet six inches

Headguarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Rosita (LNU).

no B9 ED

3

%

•1

STATE

DIA

ARAY

NAvY

REP

CINCLANT CINCSO

(Note: fleld dietribution indicated try "#"-)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

AIR

# TENS

INSA

dastard mass mi

TAXXX

FBT

2

MINORMATIO NERERORT INFORMATIONARERORI

WH/C/CA

W/S/NO

WL C/RR/REI

TU/C/RR/0$5)

1/ WE/S/R

JiE

ILEILLIA

-CI/REA

IE.

ILX 2125

3

SO PROJECT (AUMUG

IL/itIS:

CSCE-316702260-(1)

RID'dY

COORDIAPINE!

EARING

PUrA-411/C8 (1),

WEL (1), CI 4,

RID 1

B681901

UD;sw:

4/SR

---

