# 104-10218-10067

## Page 1

104-10218-10067

CSR

ACT OPI

DISPATEN

Chief, SB. Divis$oB

Chief, VE Divinion

FALS

DECROPEAN GOO

REDTOP LCIPROTE - CHOrELy MikhayloviCh RATIANI (201-093123)

RETIRENCES:

A.

B

DIRSCTOR-01838, May 1966

MEXICO CITY-8788,

Auguat 1908

D.

71334,

August 1968

4P.

TAXICO CITT-8201,

Auguat 1986,

CANICO CITI: 108, AUgUSt 4950

BRICO CITI-8337, August 1960

As reported in the Referencos, subjoct vialted" derico

to 18 August 1988.

Contrary to

the report is Reference &,

Subjost, was shepherdod around lexico by lacker nationovich

DOLCOV (201-763035), Pravda correspondent to Lezico and probatie

Pros8 Attacho and RSONA XOB. LILTRIC reported Bodlad Subject so

801107s: -fieldinG MiNisT 693157

& August 6E, 0908 Hours:

Subject entorod the Sovlet Kabusay. Pith

DOLGOY in the latter's car.

1022 Hours:

Subject and DOLGOV .loft the Embaaay 18

"DOLGOV"S CAr.

1314

Subjoct and DOIGOV entered the Eabaasy

1a DOLCOV'S CAr.

1356

Subject and DOLGOV loft the Sabagny 11

DOLCOV"S CAI

• Augue: 66, 1600 Hours:

Subject and DOLCOT entered the Labansy

1D DOLGOV 'E CHI.

• CONTINUED -

"Attachsonte:

Reuseddy

# Photo

Digtr1bution:

18 - C38, u/att.,

DORIS GEPEREICH TO

ES COFT

1 - Culp

v/o att.

CATCH SIEST AND MANICA

FIA - 29879

B-S CRIT

• 8950-1190

201-0936025

30 AUGUST 1966

008 FUS MAR

200-4-64

201-132137

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"CONTINUATION OP

DISPATCH

8

LABBIFICATIO

DISPATCH OVICHOL AND NUREA

EDOLA = 29870

• * August 68, 1630 Hours: Subject and,

KORIUSHITY (201-74124122

probably 103, note itin

belonging to

Borla Serzeyc91e= 203A1#

<0201-2041392, CO=erCIAl 011:09 EplOyOO

KORIUSHKIN has been occaalonally

Laing ZONIN' Car Dinco the latter cas

1730

1744

13 August 66, 1558 Hours:

1735

15 August 66, 1152 Hours:

1156

Subjéet and EORNUSEXIN returned to the

Embaasy in Z02WN's

car.

Bubject left the Dabaasy with Aleksandr

Aleksandrovich SIKITIN<(201-781917),

Boviet Pileg rapresentativo

and

suspect

KGB OffICer, In NIKITIN'n CAr

Subjoct and DOLGOY entered the Babasay 10

DOLCOT's Car.

Subjoct and DOLGOV left "the Pabeasy 1n

DOLGOT'S CaI..

Subject and DOLGOY entered the Embassy

13 DOLCOY '& CAS.

Subject and DOLGOV loft the Embasay in,

The following Information 10 IrOn LITRAT On the DOLCOV

Bad LEONOV 11nes.

DOLGOT had originally tried to find botel

accomodations for Subject,

but since all the hotela vere full,

-Bubjoct finally stayed with DOLGOY.

Just. before Subjoct arrived

In Mexico,

DOLGOY spoke to LEONOV about there to take Subject,

saying that he vanted 'to set in touch with "Babot Sharko""

no Station traces), WhO LEONOV said vaS 1u Veracrus.

Bubjoct and DOLGOY voro In Veracruz iros 10 to 12 Auguat 1968.

They also boped to see General Heriberto JARA COrODE,

an old friend

Soviets', in Verscruz.

Subject and DOLGOV boped to visit

the Dosiadcan Republic but never received visas.

The day before

Subjoct's arrival, DOLGOY spoke to

"Suarez" (probably Luis SUARSY

Lopez of the karziot magazine Siesoro),

Marcio MEJIA Ricart fron

Bopublic was thore with

and DOLCOV Asked LEJIA tO leave dis

Bopublic so that DOLGOV (and Subject) could visit bin when they

went there.

On 13 August 1966,

apparently having given up on the

Dominican Republic, they triod to get plane ticketa to Cludad

Juarer, but because of the U. B. airline strikes so planes vera

1. •Subjoct reportodly. had or attesipted to have laterviews

with the folloning peopie 1n Merico (SourCe: LIBAT) :

Bubjoet van in contact with the Agance France Press corre

pondent Robert Mnurice KATZ (201-104222) Beveral Elses duriag

alm stay in Merico.

KATZ bad boen inforsod of Subject's vinit by

'Monsieur Foster" (phonetic).

At 1730 hours on 8 Aurunt 1986 Subleat and LEONOY had an

Eppointment to vialt the Harzist newspapor Il Did.

"Senor Javier"

(not Identifiable) was to do at 1l Dia for The Ippolarment.

On a and again os 13 August 1968 DOLOOY naked for an appotaton:

805. Bubjoct with blENVOY 1.

The latter was out of towa, and although

hia secretary

said me rould onil no noos no he cane bact, probably

Bubjoct did not see his.

THEN

0. d6 I8e

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLABEID CAPION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DOLA • 29879

d. On o ánd agais on 12 Augunt 1980 DOLGOY tried to got sa

appointsent 10r

subject uits Agustin LoCOreSTA Lopes,

Diroctor of

the Banco Mactoral.

Finally DOLGOY vas told tIsE LECOSZETA vas

chas an laterview vould not be possible la aay

caso bocause of the baat'a poliey.

On 9 August 1966 DOLCOY ankod for an appointent for Subjoot

n1th Gabriel ALBOON, Jr., Public Holations Director of the

• (nocorate) norapaper al tarsico at Harico.

Attachod 1a a clipsing

mboving Subjoch with diur durios an Intervien on 10 August 1966.

misi

irat

representative

1n LoXIco Bad DrOable 103.

met Subject In Parie.

EUCI.3OV mentioned that ho bad taken Subject

Egraldo (cf. above).

Apparently Subjoot did not talk

DOrSODALIY TItS RAPAILOVIC 10 MOXiCO. *et lages ta EMPatishe, 201-213185

DOLCOY and Bubjoct had an appointment at noon on 12 August

19 visit Late

SUAREZ LOPeZ at the (MArX1BT) ENJAZIrO BERTE.

The evening of 12 August 1900 DOLCOY Inde arrangelents for

netspapersan with the

-(095x18t) DorspApor Il DEL: DOLCOY at DoOn and tako thes to the

planzed to meet Subject

Venezucian (7) Labagay

(presumably in regard to Subjoct's vies,

but 1t soons odd that SAYCIEz Arriola seoded to taxo then tbore).

5:

"LIKHVDY reported the folloring additional contacts of

Subject®s in Mezico : /

Madi 1s IVAnOVICh SEPASSVICH 201-3438947, Third Sacretar

a¢ 1100 bourg on 13 Auguat 1966 at big hone.

b. On 15 Auguat 1966 Subject and DOLGOV talked to -the Merican

Foreiga minister,

Antonio

CARRILLO Plores," The eppointaent mas

arranged by Guillermo TARDITY, Pross Chiof of tho Musican Forolga

offico.

Aleksandr Alekassdrovich NIKITIN 4201-784917), Soviot PAlma

optesontative in Mexico and suspoct su3, sont & 10itor vichy

PLAzA Izquiordo did not,

maot Subject, becauso ho had

Jeft Venezuela on 14 August 1988 10r Colombie and bad thea come

to Mexico on 20 August 1966.

According to LITKAT, Subjoct speaks ressonsbly good

French, which be prefera

to Spantah.

Bubjoet can sino nake

hlasald undoratood in Spanish and Inglinh,

7, Bubjoct's relationabipe vith the Bovieta 1n Mexico 18 of

Interont, as reportod in LIITOY and LIfEAT.

As stated abovo,

DOLOOV ma in charge of Subjoat during Dia stay in Mexico.

askod ISOYOV's holp 1n gotting appointaonta vith local proma

ropresentatives.

ECCaBROY took subjoet around at DOLGOV'& roquest,

And DOLOOV ALBO ASSON SUCEXROY tO tO vita hin to the sasport to .

nae Bubjoet off.. At Subjoct's requant, NIKITIN got a copy of a

locHI commarcial novie.

and Voche," and-bad a 11ln abovin

the evoning of 9 Auguet 1968.: NIKITIN told DOLOOV that ho had

botter brive a bottie of vodka along, becaune the "chio!". via aleo

Farller that day KCB resident Borgey

101794) had maid thit De maa comin

•00 180

8

---

## Page 4

CLINICANG

CONTINUATION O

DISPATCH

DISPATEN AVEN ANO PUNIA

FOOL • 39870

to the bowing and naked whether he could brias his vito.

81560

the Ambasandor vas not in Mexico, 1% appears that CONg LITINOV.

mas seast by "ne cales."

to coma to the Bordet Ebassy de 1100 hours and baler dubject

0J 1S AUgUST LEdÓ DUICOV PRA COIN

along.

Ton DOLCOY dezurred, anyiny that. they had as appolatuent,

tho Embassy duty officar Cold DOLCOY that isla vas baolcoco.

DOLOOY ashod 11 1t man "upstaira, " aad when the duty officer said

ho thought no, then DOLOOY anid they mould come.

Tals Boong to

Indicate a D0B sooting in the socure aroa of the Eabassy.

since

m1l of the above Soviots in contact vith Bubjoct are know or

tho ASIADLE tontative Idontification of Sabjest

as 10D roportod 1n- Referenco A sosas mupported by Subjeat's

natiotten 1a Merico,

It 10 also notod fron LIYXIT Chat on 13

ZATUCHNI: 4(201-2033052.

boltoved

to be a KOB

officer®

8. According to LITRAT, On 18 AUguaY 1968 SubJOGE'e plane

me crounded In Panasa.

The plane could not be 111od,

19 August 1988 a KIM plane una mede avaslable and Sabjoct tIo

to Caracas. Ho win staying at the lotel Tasanaco, room 831

in Caracad.

8.

"Attached in a photograph of Bubject

on 8 Auguat 1966.

for Millard C. CITIS

CS COPY

201-093/25

---

