# 104-10419-10300

## Page 1

104-10419-10300

13 Peorry 1964

XAAZ 16:99

DD/P 4-0840

MENCRANDUM: FOR:

Deputy Director Ic- Plans

SUBIRCT:

FBI Sequest for Palygraph Teet of lexican

IlaNtO BOJAS

1. 01 31 December 1903 a Nasdean fron Cuodaladers named

/Taro ROJAS truce to Attorney Ceneral Robert Kernedy, linite

rouse, saying he had launylee OSKAID in Metico. PalloW-Up

interrogation by tha ABI 1a lexico produced the elata fron

ROJAS that ha had seen OSHAID cn tha Yucaten Island of Coasel.

He satd the OJHAYD un thery in the compory of Cubars asd also

consocted with say martons afficial noned Albert. (Inu)

2. IsI tavestigation of the story shors may flaw, esd

pabroatios 18 certainly taticated, but no confesaton bas been

obtatsed. Ta FBI In lexico and hashington have bata afficially

roquested help to un in polygraphing SOJAS.

The PSI has faw

palfeà operators and does not nase nuch use of the device.

3.. I bare covered with in. Pupich of tha I3I, it, O'Fral

oể the CI Stair, end Mesars, Houri Caberne ent

soart the problem, We and Security do not vent to teet

ROJAS In liesceo becouse be la 3 Moican citizen and ve have so

contral over him; la could soron to the presa und auberraas af.

Iris could do avolded by enliatias the add of liedcan scharities,

but Security does not mat to do thta becansa it vould identity

their operator, la. Calrla Darts, to the Haricona.

Nx- Davio

in the man regalasty sert escratly to besioo to test our on

agente, and va do not want to blow kti. the 13I bas offared to

bring RaJAs to tema for us to polyarn nod ve sed sucurity

agate ials woald be fine.

1, Osbone thing ve should get the

paradasion of the Director to do this.

to Ve request that you conside thta issue end, 1i you

agro that un aboula do 1t md that the Director's verniasion

1s needed, you obtais 1t.

Document Number.

547-808

for FOlA Review oni

JUN 1976

1201-747249

1: 01-28924.8

---

## Page 2

13-00000

5, 0 F3} Is cosstmuing 1ts Inestigation of FOus and

1t.13 Just possiala that the test vili not have to tabe place,

but we sat to gat the declaion bade anyway.

JohN. Whitten

C/Ng/3

DDP/m/3/ataitten: cmy (18 February 1964)

Distribution:

0r1g & 1 - DDP

- C/CT

1 - C/CI/SI

] - C/CI/R&A

---

