# 104-10006-10260

## Page 1

1104-10006-102601

is."

RID CONTROL NO. (Filled in by RID)

FROM: (Raquestore names 0)

TO

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NAME CHECK, DOCUMENT SERVICE, AND PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

DATE (sunited by

MAY 64

BH TO5

- BRANCH SR/CI/R

1005 C 39

EXTE 3 5

ROOM

NATIALS

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

3/0/6/

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

REQUESTER

RID/DRS

RID/201

RID/ ANALYSIS

RID/MIS

RID/INDEX

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAME

SURNAME

HYDE

SPELLING VARIATIONS

AKA, ALIASES

MARIE

OTHER IDENTLEYING TA /O cupation, Box, CP membership,

HUSBAND IS HE IS

LORING

HYDE - A RETIRED

MERCHANT MARINE CAPT.

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

1890

ITIZENSHI

WASH, STATE,US

RID/INDEX TO REQUESTER

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

COMMENTS

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

BE SURE ALL SUBJECT INFORMATION IS CORRECT

Type or print all entries.

On receipt of index card reproductions: draw a green diagonal line across items you

don't want RID to obtain for you.

3 Edit (use green) the Copyflo listing to reflect: (a) Cards to be destroyed (green D).

Examples: referenced document has been destroyed; less informative than a retained

card leading to the same information; referenced information not significant.

Corrections and additions, including. or when card reflects all facts in document.

(c) OK all cards that are

correct as typed.

Could this trace be consolidated into an existing or new 201 file?

no. (If

yes, complete the following - no other form required.)

201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION

201 -

desk, note It in enla apace.)

supplied by RID.

If new 201 number has been obtained by

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

YES

DATE

CRYPTONYM

ASSIGNED

FILE

TO

RESTRICTION (If any)

ACCESS RESTRICTED

NO

RID

DESK

NO

YES

ALWAYS RETURN THIS FORM WITH

COPYFLO OF CARD REPRODUCTIONS.

IF YOU HAVE REQUESTED

A 201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION, ALSO RETURN PERTINENT DOCUMENTS.

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-9

DOES MARY

DETOF BLACK

PAGE

---

