# 104-10214-10036

## Page 1

104-10214-10036

•.

.:%"

Unsanitized copy of Diem Penort

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 2

SECRET-EYES OMY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Paze

Foreword

Positions of promirent people in late 1953

The anti-government flois degin

Attacks on pagodas; inposition of rartial law

Discussion of US response to jagada raids

Concin meeting with

Cereral Don

CIA guidance on State telegras re alternative leadership

Richardson's personal vicws re alternate leadership

Harriman informs Helas of the substance of Deptel 243

Deptel 243: guidance to Loige on improving or replacing regime

Rilsman corment supplerenting Deptel 243 . . . .

Marguerite Higgins on Deptel 243

Age points out danger posed by Deptel 243; directs CIA support . :

Gen. Khanh requests assurances of U.S. support

Initial embassy meeting to discuss Deptel 243

Lodge presents his credentials to Dien

Second thoughts on authorizations given Lodge in Deptal 243

Saigon reports ins: uctions giien Cli efficero seclug the generals

Results of CIA approaches to the generals

• More second thoughts on Deptel 243

Lodge and Larkins are asked for an interia appraisal of prospects.

COS believes situation has reached point of no return

Continuing concern over poor prospects for success of coup . ...

Taylor cables Harkins re Washington's second thoughts

Taylor's cable to Earklas causes Rickardsos to change scenario ..

Steps to be taken

to get the coup back on the track

Discussion ol where coup planning sent astray

•. 0. .

General Harking' meeting with General Khien

Discussion of ways 1n which we wight iive with Dien regime ....

Colby's summary of differing positions taxes

Richardson reports collapse of coup plot in late August

....••

Richardson's damage assessment report

Press reports of CIA coup plotting

• .

. .

Furtber discussion of ways of vorking with Diem regine

Press reports of CIA support of Col. Tung's Special Forces_...

David Bell warns of aid cuts

President denies charge that CIA makes its own policy

Richardson's views os prospects for immediate future

Krulak & Mendenball reports;

optimism vs. pessimisa

.

Bundy stresses need to unify US government posture

Disagrcerents among country team members ..

• . . ..

Lodge estimates situation vorsening rapidly; urges sanctions

Discussion of steps necessary before deciding to cut aid

State begins to see no alternative to vorking with Dien

Sheldon's view on Vietnam; Lodge still pursuing coup effort

10

10

11

12

12

13

13

14

14

15

16

26

17

17

19

SECRET -EYES ONLY

---

## Page 3

SECRET -ENES ONLY

Page

23

Press reports of dissension in US mission & CIA station

....

Richardson's views on need to work with Dien regime

DDP conversation with Dave Salth re possible Richardson ouster • •

Lodge changes position; agrees must work with Diem r-zime

ICI vrites lodge that Lensdale not acceptable as cos . .....

DCI briefing of CIA Subcosmittee of House Armed Services

MeNanara-Taylor report: can withdriv troops by end of 1955 ..:

Lodge confirms his desire that Richardson be replaced

Richardson departs . . .

.. . .

Discussion of guidance based on Mclamara-Taylor report

Gen. Minh requests assurances re Us position on coup attempt ..

Dave Smith recommends we not oppose generals assassination plai

McCone instructs Smith to withdraw recommendation

Snith confirms he had done so

Guidance to Lodge; suspension of AID project Icans

President approves policy of no active encouragement of coup

UN fact finding mission on repression of Buddhists

President comments on Richardson transfer; CIA follows guidance.

Modification of policy of no coup encouragement

Anbeccador': "notructions it CLA contacts wits generals

ICT. briefing of Senate Foreign Relations Camittee

The generals' plan for a coup in the week following Oct 26

Budget Bureau officer reports Lodge charges against CIA

Follow-up meetings between Conein and Gen. Don, 24 Oct •

Bundy reservations over handling of contacts with generals

Lodge reports CIA pinctilious in carrying out his instructions

Coup plotting; US goverment policy; DCI's views

Lodge coniirms Conein's bona fides to Gen. Don •

Last Coneln/Con meeting before the coup was launched

Lodge gives his views on current coup plotting (29 Oct)

Discussion of chances of success of the planned coup

Bundy-to-Lodge cable giving detailed guidance re coup posture

Lodge says we have no power to delay or discourage a coup

The White House rejects Lodge's views

lodge thanks Washington for

"sagacious instruction

Coup begins; Conein goes to JGS EQs;

CRITIC reporting on coup identifies Conein by name

The assassination

Recap

28

28

29

30

30

33

3

3

5

39

40

40

43

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEGRET-EYES ONLY

3). Кву 1967

FOREWORD

This account of CIA and U.S. Governent involvement in the

Vietnamese generals" coup of 1 November 1963 18. drawn fro

documentary sources. Not all of the documents summarized or

quoted bear directly on the coup itself.. We included some that

may seem irrelevant, because they illuminate the atzosphere in

which U.S. Government policy decisions were reached.

We interviewed only three people in the course of this

inguiry: William Colby, Chief of FE Division at the tire (and now);

John Richardson, Chief of Station during the coup plotting of

August 1963; and David Snith, Acting Chief of Station at the time

of the coup/assassination of November 1963. Each asrired us that

he knew of no CIA assassination schemes against Diem--other than

the role played by CIA in maintaining contacts, by direction, with

the Vielnamese generals.

Many of the documents upon which this report is based are

classified TOP SECRET. Since the report is being delivered

personally and in only one copy, we have chosen not to subject

1t to the external accountability controls that are entailed in

a TOP SECRET classification.

• On the following page 1s a list of U.S. Goverment officials

whose ranes are mentioned in the report, together with the positions

they held at the time.

- 1

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 5

SEGALI-LIES CHLY

John F. Kennedy

Lyndon B. Johnson

McGeorge Bundy

Dean Rusk

Ceorge W. -Ball

W. Averell Harriman

Roger Hilcman

C.

The President

Vice President

• Special Assistant to the President for

National Security Affairs

Secretary of State"

Under Secretary of Stale

Under Secretary of State fur Political

Affairs

Assistant Secretary of State for Far

Eastern Affairs

UN Adviser, Bureau of Far Easters Affairs

Ambassador (left Saigon 16 August 2963)

Ambassailor (arr. Saigon 23 August 1963)

DCM

Secretary of Defense

Deputy Secretary of Defense

Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff

Counterinsurgency Specialist, JCS

Joseph A. Mendenhal1

Frederick E. Folting

Henry Cabot Lodge

William C. Truebart

Robert McNamara

Rosvell Gilpatric

Gen. Marvell Taylor

Gen. Victor Krulnk

Adm. Barry D. Felt

Gen. Paul D. Harkins

Gen. Richard G. Weede

Joun Mucone -

Gen. Marshall Carter

Richard Helms

John Richardson

David R. Suith

Willian Colby

• Commander, MACV

Chief of Staff, MACV

"Director of Central Intelligence

DDCI

Deputy Director for Plans

CIA Chief of Station until 5 October 1963

•CIA Acting COS after 5 October 1963

Chief, FE Division

11 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 6

SECRET-EYES OULY

The successful coup against the Diem regime in South Vietnam,

which resulted in the deaths of Higo Dinh Diem and his brother, Nhu,

began on 1 November 1953 at 1315 hours, Saigon time (0015 hours,

Washington time)

This report on CIA and U.S. Government Involvement in the coup

consists of a chronological listing of events, actions, and

deliberations having to do ilth Vietnam. The report is drawn

entirely fron documentary sources, either by quoting selectively

or by sumarizing. Significant overt happenings having bearing on

official actions are included in the chronology. Facts on Fle,

a weekly digest of wor?d news, was used as the source for these

historical events. Also included are a few excerpts fron Marguerlte

Hißgins' book Our Vietnam Nightmare* to demonstrate the extent to

shich some once-classified information 15 now common knowledge.

All dates are in 1963.

8 May

Riots erupted in Hue.

20 July

SNIE 53-2-63: "The Sitation in South Vietnam"

"If--as is likely--Dien fails. to carry out truly and promptly

Marguerite Higgins, Our Vietnam Nightmare (New York: Harper & Row, 1965)

SECRET-EIRS ONLY

---

## Page 7

14-0O0N

SECRET-EYES ONLY

the commitment he has made to the Buddhits, disorders sill; probubly

flare again and the chances of a coup.or assacsination attempts

against hia vill become even better. •

•. • We do Iot think . .:

the Cormunists would necessarily profit if he were overtbrom by some

combination of his non-Cormunist opponente. A non-Cc-unist successor

regime might be initially iess effective against the Viet Cong, but,

given continued support from the US, could provide reasonably effective

leadership for the government and the war effort."

•14 August

Current Intelligence Memorandum (OCI No. 2339/63):- "Coup

Rumors in South Vietri

•.. . . The coup reports and rumors which have arisen since

the Buddhist

crisis seca

to reflect some serious coup plotting,

but we have no

fira evidence of advanced planting by any group

to

attempt to overthrow the regime. . ...

21 August

South Vietnam se troops and police attacked and occupied Buddhist

pagodas throughout the country. Dien Imposed nation-wide martial law.

Presidential Meeting On. Vietnan. CIA participanes: DCI, DDP, &

C/FE.

Record by C/FE.

Mr. Ball recommended that we continue to

untll Lodge arrives and sevleus the matter.

It was agreed that official channels should not be made avaliuble: for

transmitting press dispatches by Anerican reporters 1 Saigon. On the

matter of possible alternate leadership In Vietnam, It was pointed out

that there vas no indication that Diem vas not in full 'control.

- 2.

... CECRFT-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET-EYES ONLY

21 August (continued)

Current Intellence Resorandum (OCI lio. 2341/63): "Coup Rumors

in South Vietnes

"Additional reports of plotting agalost the Diem goverzent

have been received.

While there is no hard evidence of lainent

ection, be buddhist laoue continues to taje de siluallos dungerous. "

Saigon Station's Chronology Of August 1953 COuD Activi-les

At a meeting between Conein [an officer of the CIA Saigon Station/

and General Don, the latter asked for US Coverment assuranses of

support for moves against the Dien regime.

22 August

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR 63334)

"Ref Dept. telegram in process. Reftel (which iqs. not get seco)

states basic line to be taken and directs it be pushed at all levels.

Hilsman requested Hqs.

send companion telegran to statios pola:ing

out that this is

one technique to bring about surfacing of where and

who real power 1s.

Pressing this line car naximize possibility of

obtaining US objective. Even 11 1ª does not succeed, 1t can

substantially assist in identification of altemate or successor

leadership vith necessary drive, abilities and ambition, to incor-

porate in our overall contingency planning and serve as focus of

buildup program.

Hqs. will comment in further detail after seeing

message, 1f necessary, but passes above at Hilsan's request."

CiA cable from Saigon (SAIG 0208)

Chief of Station John Richardson forwards bis personel vlews re

alternate leadershio:

• Recent events have made us feel

that hope for civilian goverment to replace Dien administration 18

SECAET -EYES ONLY

---

## Page 9

SECRET-EYES OHLY

unrealistic®

The solution seens even more improbable than ever before.

Hould appear that se fail have either Dien: or military junta.

View time factor have not coordinated this bessage with embassy but

we bave exchanged vleus fully on subject matter."

24 August

Telephone call from fartisan to DD/P. Record by DD/P.

Mr. Harriman called Mr. Eelas just before 2000 hours and

outlined to him the substance of what eventually turned out to be

Deptel 243 to Saigon. To Helms query, Harriman confired that the

aruôt of toc telegrem contained an implicit pull out of American

forces and support 1f the Nhus' vere not vusted. Harrinar said that

the mescage had been cleared "with Hyannisport," with the Secretary

of State, and with Mr. Gilpatric.

State telegran to Saigon (Deptel 243)

The Department Inforns the Ambassador that the US goverment

cannot tolerate a situation in which pover lles In Mau's hands. IS

Diem is unilling to rid himself of Ihu, then Dien himself may have to

gO. The Ambassador is authorized: (1) to inform the GVH that actions

against findhists must be redressed; (2) to tell key milftary leaders

that the USG cannot support a Dien regime that includes the Knu's and

that

"ve will

give

them direct support in any intertm perlod of breakdowa

central goverment sechanian;" (3) to make statements in Saigon removing

• A

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 10

14-00000

C

SEGRET-EVES OLY

the military taint on the pagoda raids. The telegram Includes the

following statement:

"The Ambassador and country team should urgently examine ell

possible alternative leadersbip and make detailed plans as to boa

ve might bring about Dies's replacement if this Should recone

necessary.

You will understand that we cannot from Wasningion

give you detailed insiructions as to now this operation shouid

proceed, but you will also know we will back you to the hilt

on actions you take to achieve our objectives."

25 August

Cable fron Hiisman to Lodge (personal) sent via CIA channels

DIR 63654

"State cable sent separately represents agonizing at highest

levels.

Course outlined is dangerous but all agree that delaying

clear cut US stand is even more dangerous.

It won't be easy for

you, but be assured we will back you all the vay."

(Comment: This is a good point at which to break the

narrative and Insert a series of excerpts from Marguerite Higgins'

book:

"The crucial act, with its overtones of Greek tragedy,

opened with a cable.

It was dispatched to Saigon late in the

evening of August 24, 1953, a date nade more significant because

1t was a Saturday. Washington usually empties on sumer weekends

or lapses into a somnolent mood as officials desperately seek

relaxation.

"The telgran contained spectacular new instructions for te

U.S. embassy in Saigon.

It was drawn up at a meeting called by

Under secretary

• of State Averell Harriman and Roger Hilsnan,

Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern affairs and head of

the Vietnam task force. The President's senior advisers were, for

•5 m

SECRET-EES ONLY

---

## Page 11

SECRET -EVES ONLY

the most part, out of tom.. CIA Director John McCone vas in

California.

Defense Secretary Robett Mclamara was on vacation.

Secretary of State Dean Rusk vas attending a beseball gore in

Rew Yor%. Presiden: Keznedy was at liyannis Port. "Ceneral Taylor

says be knew nothing of the meeting intil it was over and the

telegram long on its way.

the cable proved historie.

For the flaat iine 1t

gave the sigoal to 'unleasn" the Vietnamese military, flashed

& green light for ite coup against Diem of which the generals had

been talking for to sany years.

the cable of August 24 was a radical revision of the

previous philosopay of one var at a time.

It envisaged the

generals' peking var on their own government, and with the

Implicit blessing of the United States.

"The substance of the cable was that the U.S. embassy was to.

make an effort to persuade Diem to fire his brother, release

the Buddhiss rebels, eni press censorship, and restore otner

derocratic liberties suspended under martial law.

And 1f,. as

cable anticipated, Dien would no: do these things,

then the lithe

embassy was to contact die Vietnagese generals and tell them that

the Volted Sates vould no longer stand in the way of a revolt.

"The acting Seriary of Defense, Rosell Gilpatric .

had the cable descalbed to bim over the telephone.

Mr. Gilpatric

says he was fransly surprised that such an Important set of

Instructions should be rushed out on a weekend. But he did not

feel that he ought to veto the telegran since . .. it had the

"approval of the Presideat."

cryptically, to Ricard seims, deputy director of the CIA;

who also did not feel disposed to veto sonething 'approved by

the President. "

- 6 =

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 12

C.

SECRET-EYES ONY.

25 August (continued)

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR 63855)

"FYI CIA not consulted re cable being sent separately, which

however cleared at highest levels.

In circumstances believe CIA

must fully accept directives of policy sakers and seek ways accouplish

objectives they seek.

While have not seen exact toxt, understand

1t Invites Lodge final judgment. . . .

Danger in present course

of action appears to be throwing avay bird in hand before we adequately

Identified birds in bush, or songs they may sing.. Thus suggest a

real search for courses of action which night retain options in our

hands at same time as taking positive stand rather than waiting for

situation to clarify (at which point ve probably unable to affect 1t.)

This bolls down to seeking some middle ground for at least interim

period. . . . .

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 0291)

Chief of Station Richardson reports that General Khanh requested

an immediate meeting with Spera [an officer of the CIA Saigon Station/.

At the meeting Khanh requested assurances that the U.S. Goverment

would support the Vietnamese army if it should move against the Diem

Regime.

CIA Cable from Saigon (SAIG 0296)

Richardson reports the results of & conference anong. Ambassador

Lodge, DQY Truehart, General Harkins, General Weede, and Richardson.

Tie gruup agrèed that giving Dies an option had no chance of success.

They accepted Deptel 243 [of 24 August] as a basic decision from

Washington and would proceed to do their best to carry out instructions.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET -EYES ONLY

Richardson gives headquarters his viers on possible successor

regimes.

26 August

ONE Staff Memorand:,

No. 6c-63, Internal ONE Working Paper,

CIA Dietribution Onl

"On balance, we believe the best hope for the preservation of US

Interests and attairent of US objectives in South Vietnam lies in tbe

possibility of a coup d'etat by enti-(cumunist nationalists with

sufficient military support to obviate prolonged civil war. Such a

group nighi not prove able to salvage the situation and, indeed, might

eventually prove no better than the present regime.

Such a development

would, however, enable the US and anti-Communist nationalist elements

to make a fresh start uneücumbered and unnumpered by political errors.

of past years, months, and weeks. In such a fresh start, we believe,

Iles the only

Objectives In South Vietnan."

Ambassador Lodge presented his credentials to South Vietnamese

President Ngo Dinh Dien.

Presidential Meeting On Vietnan. CIA participants: DDCI & DDP.

Record by DDP.

The question was raised as to whether there had been such a

significant change in the Vietnam situation that it really appeared

desirable to dump the Nhu's and possibly Diem himself. Principal

points discussed vere: Admiral Felt's concern over the dangers

inherent in the current US action in South Vietnam; the fact that

Lodge had not seen Dien to discuss the future role of the Nu's;

- 8-

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 14

SECRET-EMES ONLY

the meaning of the phrase "give direct support to military commandere

In Deptel 243; the question of succession; and what would happen if the

action taken over the veekend failed. The President asked for another

session on fugust 27 vith participants to present olographic data on •

key SVl personalities nod, a contingency plan for the succession.

CIA cable fron Sairon (SAIG 0304)

Richardson reports that the Ambassador decided that the Aserican

official hand should not show in the operation. It was agreed that Conein,

vould see khlem and that Spera vould see Khanh. Conein and Spera vere

directed to convey the substance of Deptel 243, plus this commert:

*We cannot be of eny help during initial action of assuming power of

state. Entirely their own action; vin or lose."

CIA Cable PrOS Saigon (SAIC 0330).

Richardson reports the results of the Conein/Spera approaches

to the generals. In essence, Khanh said he was not yet ready, and Khiem

said he vould have to check with Mich.

27 August

Precia

Ing on Vietnam

CTA. ge

ticipants: DDCI, DDP, &

C/FE.

Record

by C/F2.

The President stated that a coup should not be attempted unless 1t

would be successful and asked whether we could turn back at this point.

9:

SEGNT-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 15

SECRET-EYES ONLY

The President asked that the judgment of Lodge and Harkins be sought

on the prospects for victory or defeat of a coup. A cable was drafted

asking if they still agreed with their concurrences to Deptel 243.

State telegram to Saigon (Deptel 256)

"Examination of reports to date gives considerable hope but

leaves unanswered questions. • •

• • Proceeding fron the concept

outlined In Deptel 243 as nodified; now desire your proopt irterim.

appraisal of presert prospects. • • •

• Highest authority asks

whether you and Harkins, in light of developing situation, presently

favor operation as currently planted by generals.

We wish to give

you all possible eupport in best available course but not to insist ou

any decision thet developing evidence makes it wise to modify."

28 August

CIA cable from Saigon (SATC 0363)

Richardson reports that:. "Situation here has reached poist of

no return.

• • •• • Unless the generals are neutralized before being

able to launch their operations, we believe they will act and that

they have good chance to win...... We all understand that the

effort mist succeed and that whatever needs to be done on our part

mast be done. . . ..

President1al Meeting On Vietnam. CIA participants: DDCI, DDP, 8

C/FE.

Record by C/FL.

The President Inquired Into the status of E&E plans and was told

that these were well worked out. State Department participants

insisted that Diem and Nhu had betrajed and double-crossed us and we

had. no obligations to them and that we cannot win with Diem and Nhu.

= 10 -

SECACT-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 16

SECRET-EYES ONLY

The President cormented that we had been winning until August. Holting

expressed his conviction time Diem is the only man who can run South

Vietnam in any fashion to permit a continuance of the war effort..., He

believed we should make anotior try to scep Diem. Harriman directly

disagreed with him. The President directed that a telegram be prepared

'to send to lodge and larkins asking their view of the chances of success,

expressing concern over the unfavorable ratso of forces, and iriting

their cuggestions as to how we could increase their possibilitles.

The President called for another meeting later in the dav.

NSC Executive Committee Neeting on Vietnan. CIA participants not

identified.

Record by DDP.

The President net privately with Risk, McNamara, Taylor and

McGeorge Bundy. He reported to the rest of the Committee merely that

three telegrams vere being sent to Saigon: a personal pessage to

Lodge from the President, a general message from the Department to the

Ambassador, and a telegram from Taylor to Harkins.

Telegram fron Taylor to Harkins (JCS 3368-63)

Important White House reeting on subject scheduled for 1200

28 August ITT, your mows urgently weied on overall Peesibility of

operation contemplated. . . .

• FYI State to Saigon 243 was prefared

without DOD or JCS participation. Authorities are now having second

thfoughts."

- 1)

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 17

C

SECRET - EYES ONLY

39 August

Saigon Station's chrorology of August 1903 coup activities

"At 0745 hours, Richardson, Spera and Conein, latter two of

whom were scheduled to contact Gererals Minh and Khiem at 0815 sane

mornine, were shown a mogenge from Cescrul Tijius iu Geuerti harkias stating

aspects of Vietnay situation being reviewed at White House and cormenting

that second thoughtswere beginnirg in Washington.

Faced with this

information and given strictly linited. time factors, Richardson

decided that the reeting with Gereralls linh and Khiem should not be

postponed but that contacting officers would make this meeting a fact-

finding mission without encouraging or discouraging General Minh.

"When Spera and Corein returned from their recting with Khiem

and Minh, we proceeded to Trucheart's office to make our report.

The

Ambassador came in and Richardson advised him of our meeting with

General Hecac, i Taylor's cubie, and of the decisions which Richardson

had made as a result of the Taylor cable. Lodge was angry and

expressed the view that Richardson's decision had destroyed the

possibilities of carrying out a coup. Richardson expressed a firm m

dissenting opinion."

NSC Executive Comittee Meeting on Vietnam. CIA participants

not identified.

Record by DDP.

The consensus was that Harkins should confirm to the generals that

the approaches from CIA were bona fide and represented the views of the

US government. There was agreement that better information was needed

on what the generals were in fact planning to do and whether 1t was

militarily feasible. A telegran giving the sense of the neeting was

drafted for Presidential approval.

-22.

SEGRET-EVES OSLY

---

## Page 18

SECRET-EVES GULY

30 August

VIce Presidential Meeting on Vietrem. CIA participants: DDCI,

DIX,

& C/FE.

Record by C/FE.

Pus's referred to recent cable traffic and said that he was uot..

aran sure wivive were dealing with or what they were plenning.

McNamara pointed out there was some question whether the generals ever

did have a plan. Bundy said he had re-read the earlier traffic and

noted that they never said they did. Gen. Carter sald he belleved that

the general's coup was not llkely 3l this stage and that in another

weet we will be approximately bore ve were before the attack on the

Buddhist Lemples. Bundy suggested we consider additional contingencies

" ts

before the group and whether the assumption that Nhu 1s Impossible is

well founded.

31 August

Saigon Station's chronology of August 1963 coup activities

"General Harkins was authorized to meet with Khien to give

Khien assurences of USG backing Khiem showed a reluctence to talk

and suggested that Harkins meet with General Minh. Khiem cormented

that Minh hed called off the planning and was working on other methods

which Khiem would not describe.

Khien further stated that the generals

vere not ready as they did not have enough forces under their control.

Hertise decided-nut-lu dire iniem assurances which he had been authorized

to impart. Lodge approved Harkins' decision on 31 August after Harkins

reported.

- 13=

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 19

SECRET-EVES ONLY

31 August (continued)

Vice Presidential leeting on Vietnam. CIA participants: DDCI,

DDP, & C/FE.

Record. by C/EB.

Rusk suggested we look at precisely what in the Vietnam

situation made us think of a coup and what might be done to improve

conditions In Vietnan. Melanara suggested the first requirement vas

reesteblishment of communication hetween Lodge and Harkins. Rusk

directed that a telegram be prepared for Saigon raking suggestions

as to what we might ask the GVN to do.

Chief, FE, uto participated in the seetings of late August,

in a nenorancum for walter Elder provided this summary of

differing positions taken.

"In the discussions during the past week, the position of the

Department of State, led by Ball, Farrivan, and Hilman, was that the

Diem-linu government had double-crossed the US Governsent because of

the attack on the pagodes and that US obligstiors to the goverment

were no longer valid. Further, that a goverament so discredited could

not conduct successfully the war in Vietnam and would prove an

undesirable liability to the US Government elsewhere in Asia.

Because of

these moral, military and political conclusions, the: Department

recommended that it must give all support to a group of generals who

allegedly were disaffected to the point that a clear indication of US

action was the only ingredient lacking for them to push over a discredited,

unopular and weak Diem government.

"The position of the Department of Detense was that while it

depiored the sensational aspects of the Buddhist situation, it

nonetheless felt that an effort should be contimed to deal with Diem

and try to bring about a comprorise, and at the same tire to keep in

touch with the generals and support the coup efforts, if this proved to

be the only alternative left. This was essentially the view of General

Harkins and of Arbassdor Nolting.

This vas considered by the Department

of State to be a foot-dragging and weak position.

= 14 ..

SECRET-EYES OHLY

---

## Page 20

SEGRET-EYES ONLY

"The President vieved the State Department's position with

considerable reserve but was willing to explore the comp idea further.

He and the Attorney General (as well as CIA) were apparently appalled

at the seed with which the State decision was reached on Saturday

31 August (contimied)

CIA cable fros saigon (SAIG 0459)

"This particular coup 1s finished. ..... Cenerals dia not feel

ready and did not have sufficient balance of forces.

1s little doubt that GVN awarc US role and may have considerable

detail. ..

2 Septerber

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 0523)

Richardson cabled i danage assessment. He concluded that Dien and

the thu's are fully avare that the USG encouraged the generals to

atterpt a coup and that CIA was the instrumentality of this encoursge-

ment. He Judged there was an even possibility that all major programs

could go forward as in the past. He listed as a major dilemma the

Station's future relationships with Col. Tung. He noted his dissetis-

faction With Tung as a GVN Iaison vehicle through which to conduct Ph

progrars, but noted that the CVI had offered no alterzative. Unless ve

vere willing to discontimie our IVN, laos border, and cross-border programs,

we mist contime to work with Tung.

- 25 =

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 21

SECRET-EVES CALY

2 September (continued)

The Tines of Vietnam published charges that the CIA was plotting

and financing a coup and was giving asylum to the. chief anti-Diem

New York Dally Jews, the Chicago Tribune, Paltinore Sun, and other

prominent newspapers.

6 September

Presidential Meeting on Vietnam. CIA participants: DDP & C/FE.

Record by DDP & C/FE.

Rusk stressed the immedlate need for direct contact between lodge

and Diem. Bundy pointed out the necessity of advising Lodge not to

have a real show-down with Diem over Nhu at this forthcoming neeting,

as one of lodge's cables indicated he was headed very much in this

direction. Rusk agreed to do this. The President agreed with the

destrability of silencing Mademe Nhu but expressed some doubt that

Ni's participation was as fatal as State seemed to say 1t vas. Rusk

commented that the country team had stated its feeling that Nhu must 30,

to which the President replied that they may have been operating under

directives received from here.

= 26.

SECRET-ENES CNLY

---

## Page 22

SECRET-EVES CLY

" 8. Septerber

Wire services and prominent newspapers carried a story that the

Special Forces troops who raided the pagodas on 21 August were still

reliable source in Washington and gave details of support to Col.

Tung in the anount of $3 million annually, and a paytert of $250

thousand on 3 September. The story was datelined in Washington and

in Manila.

David Bell warned in a television interview that the US Congress

might cut back aid to South Vietnam unless the Dien government

changed 1ts policies•

(Comment:: The U.S.. Coverrment publicly confimed on

8 October 1963 that aid had already been cut, quietly and

over a period of sare months. Bill Colby, Jocko Richardson,

and Dave Smith each told us that the public announcement of

the aid reduction was a "signal" to the generals and that the

reduction wis planned with that in mind. It may be that the

cut In aid was deliberately planned to spur the generals on, but,

• 1f so, that intention did not find its way into the written

record. The nearest thing to it 15 in the record of a Presidential

meeting of 10 September 1963. The President asked Rufus Phillips,

- 17:

SECRET-ENDS ONLY

---

## Page 23

SECRET-ETAS ONLY

Of AID, what specific actions Phillips would recomiend and he

suggested "cutting aid to Colonel Tung wich would be viesed

by the Generals with much enthusiasm and as an indication of

a vigorous American position." In general, though, aid cuts

were discussed in terns of bringing pressure on Diem to make

needed changes in his regine. However planned or however

looked upon by the U.S, administration, it is clear that the

Vietnamese generals considered the official confirmation of

aid cuts as a clear token of U.S. support of their coup planning.

Spera and Conein met with Generals Mish and Khien on 29 August.

The following are excurpte from the cabled report of the

meeting (SAIG 0406):

"If USA now really ready take different position, generals

want firm evidence to that effect. . ...: Queried as

to what we can do to show ve nean business, Minh flatly

stated, stop econonic aid to force Nhu to show his hand."

The suspension of aid did not force Diem and Nhu to mend their

ways, but it did create an atmosphere that made it easier for

the generals to assemble the military support needed for a

successful coup.)

- 18-

SECRET-ETES ONLY

---

## Page 24

C

SECRET-EYES ONLY

10 September

In an interview by Huntley and Brinkley, the President denied

the charge that CIA makes its own policy.

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 0760)

"Am inclined to feel general officers will seek evolutiorary

acconnodation with Dies (if he pernits them to do so) unless overall

sitution clearly deteriorates, there is breakdown of civil order or

governmental machinery, or unless war effort begins to go backvard

• • Despite damages suffered since 8 May and 21

August, am inclined to believe we should be able resuse successful

prosecution of war in military and civil sectlons. • • • • . Do not

align myself with the view that USG should suspend aid. . . . ..

Presidential Meeting on Vietnam. CIA participants: DCI & C/FE.

Record by C/FE.

Gen. Krulak reported his findings in Vietnan. His conclusions:

vere that the war is going ahead at an impressive pace and that the

Viet Cong war will be von if current US military and sociological

programs are continued. Mendenhall, the State representative who

accompanied Krulak, expressed the vlew that there vas a complete break-

down of the Saigon civilian government and the security situation in

the provinces had deteriorated. The President asked whether the two

gentlemen had visited the sane country. Fusk suggested that the focus

be on what happened in July and August that reversed the optimistic

judgments In May and June. Mi. McCone talked from a personal telegrar

he had received from Richardson recommending sgainst any cut in aid.

= 19 =

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 25

SECRET-EYES OHLY

10 September (continued)

NSC Executive Committee Meeting on Vietnam. CLA participenis:

DCI & C/FE.

Record by C/FE.

Bundy stressed the need to unify the US Governent posture; to

coordinate press guidance, and to control outgoing tessages to Saigon.

He emphasized the Importance of following the President's guidance on

this delicate Vietnam probien, despite Intensely differing views as to

what should be done, how, the risks, ainimm objectives, and the facts.

McNamara stated that his position vas vigorously against throwing out

this government without seeing an alternative and that none appeared

t'exist. Mr. Melone coumented that the problem was not so much the si

existence of an altemative as how to put one into power. Bundy

sunrized the President's position as one in which ve must express

our reservations as to the mistakes and misdeeds of Diem but not be

In a position where ve cannot deal with him furtber.

11 September

CIA coble from Saigon (SAIG 0757)

Richardson reported that the country team attempted to agree on

& 51x-page summary cable to answer a cable from the Department requesting

views. The team vas unable to agree even on the first three pages of

the sumary. Weede and Richardson dissented on the basis that the draft

• 20 .

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 26

SECRET-EYES ONLY

sunnary was too sweeping and too negative, concluding definitively

about the country as a whole on an inadequate basis of data. He said:

"In some ways we seem to have reached the point in official American

count; that, 1? joü thir it, can win will feebest guversment, you:

are simply not running in right direction with majority."

Stata telegram from Saigon (B0. 478)

*My best estimate of the current situation in Vietnam 1s: (a) that

1t 1s worsening rapidly; (b) that the time has urrived for the US

to use what effective

sanctions it has to bring about the fall of the

existing goverment and the installation of another; and (c) that

Intensive study should be given by the best brains in the zovernment

to all the detalls, procedures, and variants in connection with the

suspension of aid.

Presidential Meeting on Vietnam. CIA participants: DCI & C/FE.

Record by C/Z.

Michamara pointed out that Lodge has had little contact vith Diem

and has not been out of Saigon. Mr. McCone commented that he believed

that we should move cautlously, that we should talk seriously to Diem

and that lodge should be urged to visit the countryside to obtain a

more realistic view of the effects of suspending ald. Mr. McCone also

suggested that another approach be made to Nhu to seek his cooperation

In a departure. The President asked whether we had carefully studied

the detailed effects of cuts in aid (as proposed in a paper prepared

by Hilman). It was evident that the effects had not been studied.

- 21 .

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 27

SECRET-EYES ONLY

The President asked DOD and CIA to analyze the Hilstan paper.

He

B150 asked that a telegram be sent to lodge asking bis to try to

reduce the press leakage in Saigon and to establish some real contact

with Diem. Any current plans for aid negotiations should be stalled,

and the President said he should be well informed of any steps taken

in this context-such as the incident involving

Col. Tung last week.

11 September (continued)

NSC Executive Coumittee Meeting on Vietren. CLA percielpents:

DCI & C/FE. Record by C/FE.

Rusk said he believed that we were not likely to achieve an

Independent Vietnam unless we could eliminate Khu. At the same time

he was not willing to say that Diem should go, as he sav no alternative..

Rusk commented that se should work through Lodge on Dien to tase over

the real leadership and become the real president. Mr. McCone suggested

also the desirability of negotiating with Nau. Bundy read off a CIA

suggestion for a process of negotiating with Nhu.

13 September

CIA cable fron

"Saigon (SAIG. 08g0)

Huntington Sheldon, who visited Saigon, reported his vievs on the

situation in Vietnam. He Included as part of his report the substance

• 2.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 28

14-00000

SECRET-EVES ONLY

of a discussion with DUM Trueheart: "The Ambassador is considering

charging MACY with making approach to SVN military, he bentioned Gen.

Doc, to attempt stimulate exily coup action with appropriate US

asfurances. I Inquired had Ambassador made such proposal to Washington

and was told this was within Lodge's authority."

15 September

Neil Sheehan writing from Saigon stated that the various elements

of the US mission in Vietnam were so badly divided that Washington

had Intervened. He said: "The only civilian official still stronely

In favor of going along w. ih the ligo family regime is the Chief of

the Central Intelligence Agency here." On the sane day, David

Halberstam stated that high US civilian officials in Saigon vere

making an all-out effort to convince Washington that the military

and political situation is deteriorating. He said that "the Chief of

the Centrel Intelligence Agercy favors all-out support for the present

regime but that almost all other members of his staff are embittered.

over the raids on the pagodas. They also feel their Chief's close : •

association with Nhu, while necessary, has severely damged intelligence

gathering.

- 23

SECRET-ENES ONLY =

---

## Page 29

C

SECRET-EYES ONLY

16 September

CIA cable from

Saigon (SAIG 0922)

Richardson replied to Washington's request for his judgsent on

the desirability and feasibility of certain ideas, as dashington vas

then in the course of constructing an agreed plan. He cabled:

"We must go on trying to win war with current administration

for as long as it persists in pover..... ... We should not attempt

publicly to achieve objectives with respect to GVIl when probability

•of attainment is virtually nil...... We cannot covertly sinker

with or engineer a coup unless general situation is reasonably

propititious and if we are unable to

establish necessary working

contacts vith Vietnamese leaders villina and able to do the job

with necessary means. . ... • Agree we should carerully explore

and perhaps carefully experient with predated measures designed

to pressure Diem, withla context of persuading him, to tase steps

needed.

These measures would be more effective 1f

they are liaited r

to practical and achievable objectives. • • •

17 September

Memorandin for the Record prepared by DDP

"Snith... discussed with me... reports that lodge wanted

to get rid of Mr. John Richardson. •

•• • Mike Dunn. . . bad

told Conein... that lodge was going "to get rid of Richarison'.

• • • • • On one occasion Duan asked Conein, 'Do you think that lave

can run the station for a temporary period while a nes Station

Chief is being sent out here?*"

19 September

Lodge to the President: State telegrem from Saigon (1o- 544)

"I agree that no good opportunity for action to remove present

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 30

C

goverament in impediate future is apparent and that ve should,

therefore, do whatever ve can as an interim measure pending such

an eventuality. ...

• Frankly, I see no opportunity at all

for substantive cbanges."

Personal letter from McCone to Lodge

"I was told by Dean Rus's tbat you had proposed toat General

Lansdale •

• replace Richarison as Chief of Station. •

I wish to emphasize that the Agency wiül reorient ine Saigon Station

in any practical vay to neet your desires. Personnei, 1neludli

the Station Chief, can be replaced. • • • •

Lansdale would not be

acceptable to the organization or to

HE personally:

.. . . • If the

• decision is to abardon all hope of working with the regime, then

Richardson probably should be replaced. . . ... "e have no current

Intelligence nor resulting estinate in hand which would lead us to

the conclusion that the present regine can be disposed of, or that

there exists a replasement regise which would be better." This 1s

not hovever to sry that a coup might not occur even before you

receive this letter. . . ...

23 September

DCI briefing' of CIA Subcommittee of House Armed Services

The Director said there did not appear to be any cobesive

m1l1tary group capable of ousting the Dies regire, and lurther that

there appeared to be no replacement for be then current regise that.

was capable of running the goverment.. A new regime probably vould be

no better. Consequently, the Agency was urging a cautious, slow

approach to the problem.

- 25 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 31

C

SECRET-EYES OWLY

2 October

Report of Mclarara-Taylor mission to Vietnam

The President on. 21 September had directed General Taylor and

Secretary Mclamara to proceed to South Vietnas to appraise tbe

situation. Their trip lasted fron 24 September to 2 October. Inis

vas the report in which Mcfamara recomended that a progres be

established to train Vietnamese so that essential functions performed

i by US wilitary personnel could be carried out by Vietnanese by the

end of 1965. He thought it would then be possible to withdraw the

bulk of US personnel.

3 october

Personal letter from Lodze to HcCone

"...

.. I agree with wbat I understand McNamara has said

The time has come for a ner face.

But, I also thinis of

Richardson as a devoted and patriotic American •

4 October

CIA cable fros Saigon (SAIG 1397)

• In sun, It is clear that Lodge wants a change in

Chief of Station.

..•• Departing Saigon 1820 hours 5 October

(Coument: Richardson's departure was based on a headquarters

request that he return to headquarters on TDY as soon as possible.

Upon Richardson's departure, his deputy, David R. Smith, became

Acting Chief of Station."

- 26 -

SECRET--EYES ONLY

---

## Page 32

SECRET-EIRS ONLY

5 October

Presidential Meeting on Vietnam. ClA participant:

Rerord®

DCI only.

The meeting was held to discuss matters that became the subject

of Deptel 534 [lee later entry of 5 Octöber]. DCI said it was the

ppinion of CIA (with the exception of Colty, C/FE) that fladling

with the Commodity Import Program as a political lever would be much

more likely to create an economic crisis undermining the var effort

than to scare Lien and Nou Into a more cooperative attitude, becaure

It would seriously affect she confidence and plating of the Vietsamese

business comunity and quickly engender inflationary measures among

the population at lerge of a nore serious nature.

It was the consensus of the meeting that some meanirgil

political novements had to be made, but exactly what they should

be was not determined.

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 1445)

In a beeting with Conein (approved by the Ambassador on 2

October), General Minh requested a statement of the US position with

respect to a change in the GVN in the near future. He said be did

not expect USG support of a coup effort, but did need USG assurances

that the USG would not try to thwart his plans. He outlined three

• 27

SECHET-ENES ONLY

---

## Page 33

C.

SECRET- EYES CANY

possibie plans for the accomplishment of the change of goverment:

(a) assesaination of Ngo Dinh Thu and Ngo Dinh Can, iceping President

Diem in office; (b) encirclement of Saigon by, various nilitary units;

and (c) direct confrontation between military units involved in the

coup and loyalist military units in Saigon.

5. October (continued)

CIA cable frow Saigon (SATG 1447)

Dave Sulth, the Actiog COS, cabled that he had discuered this

latest Conein Minh meeting with Ambassador Lodge and DCM Truchart.

Smith reported that he bad recommended to Mabassedor Lodge that: "We

"do not set ourselves irrevocably against the assassination plot,

since the other two alternatives mean either a bloodbath in Saigon

or a protracted struggle which could rip the army and the country

asunder."

(Comment: Salth's recommendation to lodge on assassination

drew a prompt response from headquarters. The tro entries that

follow interrupt the chronology. They are put here to complete

the story on this significant episode.)

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR 73661 of 6 October)

• McCone directs that you vithdraw recomendation

to Ambassador (Concerning assassinaiion plan/ tuder MaCose

Instructions, as ve cannot be in position actively condoning such

course of action and thereby engaging our responsibility therefor."

- 28 -

SECRET -ENES ONLY

---

## Page 34

SECRET-EYES CHLY

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 1463 01 " October)

"Action taken as directed. In addition, since DCM

Trueheart was also present when original reconneniation was

made, specific withdraval of recommendation at Mclose's

instruction was also conveyed to Trueheart.. Ambassador

Lodge commented that he chares McCone's opinion."

29

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 35

SECRET-EYES ONLY

5 October (continued)

State cable to Salzon (Deptel 1a. 534)

The Department cabled guidance to the Ambassador resulting fro

NSC consideration oi the 2 October Mcñamara-Taylor report. These points

vere included: (1) Existing suspension of new comitments under

the AID Concodity Import Program vill be maintained. (2) PL 480

(condensed milk) will be handled on a ronth-to-month basis but will

not be' suspended. (3) AID Project Lans vill be "suspended for review."

(4) Ambassador should continue his polley of "cool correctness"

toward GN.

White House cable to Saigon (CAP 63560)

" . : : President today approved recomendation that no initiative

should now be taken to five any active covert encouragerent to a coup.

There should,' however, be urgent covert effort with closest security

under broad guidance of Ambassador to identify and build contacts

with possible alternative Leadership as and when 1t appears • • ...

8 October

The UN General Assembly agreed to send a fact-finding mission

to South Vietnas to Investigate charges of government oppression of.

Budähists.

30 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 36

(

SECRET-EYES ONLY

(Coument: The fact-finding group left New York 21 October

and arrived in Saigon on the 2ith. It first net with Igo Dinb

Mhu and then visited the Xa. Lo1 pagoda, considered the cozand

post of the Buddhist protest noverent, where it found only two

monks and Souta Vietnanese secret policemen. A planned visit

to the An Quang pageda was barred by the Dien goverment. The

mission did manage to visit An Quang on 27 October and

Intervleued Thich Tinh Keit' in the presence of a number of

secret police. The 1 November generals' coup interrupted the

mission's work, and it left South Vietnam on 3 November.

(The. UN General Assembly accepted ithout vote on 13

December a decision to discontinue Investigation of alleged

repression of Buddhists in South Vietnam. Assembly President

RodrIguez said Buddhist oppression by the governsent had

ceased to be an issue since the ouster of the Diem goverrment.

(The fact-finding commission had issued its report on

Il December. It arrived at no conclusions but perely detailed

testimony taken during 1ts probe.)

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 37

SECRET-EVES ONLY

9. October.

President's nevs conference

"I know that the transfer of Mr. Join Richardson, who 15 a very

dedicated public servant, has led to

surmises, but I can Besure

you

flatly that te CIA cas not carried out independent activities, but

has operated under close control of the Director of Central

Intelligence operating under the--with the cooperation of the

Retional Security Comall and under my instructions."

CIA cable to Saigon - Eyes Only for Ambassador (DIR 74228)

• • While ve do not wish to stimulate coup, we alco do

not wish to leave Impression that US would thwart a crange of

governsent or deny economic and silitary assistance to a new regime.

11 1t appeared capable of increasing effectiveness of silitary

effort, insuring popular support to win var and improving working

relations with US."

The cable urges that the contact with Minh

press for"detailed Information clearly indicating thät Minh's plans

offer a high prospect of success."

(Comment: William Colby is the originator of this cable,

and it was released by a Cable Secretariat Duty Officer by'

direction. of Colby. The text states that these "additiona)

general thoughts" had been discussed with the President and

that the cable had been cleared with "high officials in White

House, State, Defense and CIA.")

"= 32.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 38

SECRET-EYES OLY

10 October

Saigon Station's "History of the Vietnanese Generals' Cous"

The Ambassador Instructed CIA not to initiate contact with

Generals Minh or Don, but 1f the generals initlate contact, such

contacts were authorized. In the course of neetings with Minh or Don,

ascurances vere to be given as specified in DIR 74228 of 9 October.

DCI briefing of Senate Foreign Relations Committee

the haic not scen a successor goverment in the wings that we

could say positively would be an improvement over Dies.

Therefore,

It has been our counsel that we must proceed cautiously, otherwise

• situation might flare up which migh: result in something of a

civil war, and the Communists would come out the victor merely by

sitting on the sidelines."

23 October

Saigon Station's "History of the Vietnamese Generals' CouD"

At a neeting with Conein requested by General Don, Don said

the generals had decided to try to stage a coup within a week

followlag 26 October. Conein, under instructions, passed the substance

of DIR 74228 to Don.. Don promised he would seek permission of the coup

committee to give Conein their political plan for the Ambassador's

eyes only.

- 33=

SECRET--EVES ONLY

---

## Page 39

SECRET-EYES. ONLY

34 October

Yenorandu for the Record precared by the Executive Director

following a seeing with Kerneth Hansen, Bureau of the budget

At Hansen's Initial seeting with Lodge, Lodge made these charges:

(2) Cli nãs improperly acalinE Mich Man; (2) CIA was reluctani to

turn over to the cilitary 1ts operations

(3) CIA had

and

was caught by surprise; (4) Richardson had a palatial mansion and

_(5) The CIA Station vas too

Large and too visible; (6) CIA acted on its con initlative without

coordination and without any control from either thr Ambassador or

Washington.

Hansen said be later reported to Lodge that he thought lodge's

charges vere erroneous. He said he was convinced that everything

CIA had done

In Vietnam had been approved in Washington, coordinated

with and carried out under the directions of the Ambassador, and bad

been carried out with both good judgment and a high quality of

performance.

Hansen noted that at the time of his first meeting with lodge,

Lodge had not yet had a full briefing on what the \gency was doing. This

took place a few days later.

- 34.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET -EVES ONLY

24 October (continued)

Saigon. Station's "History Of the Vietnamese Generals' Cou?"

Conein held two meetings with General Don on 24 October. Don

reported he had been Informed by General Farkins that the U.S.

milltary would not thrert any coup plans. . Don said the coup plans

vere cooplete; that the necessary military units sere available; and

that the coup would occur no later than 2 November.. In the second

meeting, Don said the coup committee refused to tum over the political

plan but authorized Don to outline its substance, which he did. .::

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR 78161)

Eyes only for lodge and Earkins from Burdy:

• There

may be danger bu attempting entrayment through Don's approaches to

Conein... ... Feel quite strongly that Lodge and Harkins should

stand back from any non-essential involveseat. . .

•**•It seems

wise to saintain close control over meetirigs between Don and

Conein. "

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 1964)

Bundy from Lodge: "CAS has been punctilious in carrying out

my. Instructions. I have personally approved each neeting between

General Don and Conein who has carried out my orders in each

Instance explicitly. ? •..•

35 October

Presidential Meeting on Vietnam. CIA partie:

Record by DCI.

DCI only.

- 35 -

SECRET-EXES ONLY

---

## Page 41

SECRET-EXES ONLY

The President stated that the purpose of the meeting was to

consider: (1) recent actions in SVH with respect to coup planning

and qualifications of the individuals reporting; and (2) our policy

In SVN, as he sished to be assured there wan unanimity within the

government prior to the return of Lodge for consultations. The DCI

stated his views in detail. In essence, he held: (1) Don might be

managed by Khu; (2) CIA has no control and therefore could assure

l1ttle responslbility; (3) Don could have a coup in the esking and

could pull it off; (4) We are handling a delicate situation 1n &

non-professionai wanner; (5) Successful coup would lead to confusion

because generals would provide weak Leadership; (6) One coup would

be followed by another and the var wight be lost during perdod of

political confusion; (7) Civilians capable of running SVN could not

be injected into the goverment and exercise effective control; (8)

Cannot discuss important political issues with Diem because of the

policy of "correct, cool attitude;" (9) We either have to wor's with

Diem and khu or ve have to take sogressive steps to remove them, ard

It Is not clear that the succeeding government would be much better.

28 October

Saigon Station's "History of the Vietnamese Generals' Coup"

General Don asked Lodge 11 Conein was speaking for the Aabassador.

- 36=

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 42

SECRET-EYES OLY

Lodge replied in the affimative. Don told the Ambassador that the

US Government should not interfere with or try to stimulate a coup.

The Ambassador agreed with Don.

28 October (continued)

Saigon Station's "History of the Vietnamese Generals' Coup"

Conein net with General Don for the last time before the coup

vas launched. Don confired that he had talked vith the rebascador vo

had rouched for Conein. Don stated be was leaving on 29 October to

coordinate final plans. Don requested Conein to remain at hoer

beginning 30 October--until further notice. Don repeated that the

Ambassador would have the plans before the coup began, but when

pressed on his previous coumitment to make them available 48 hours in

advance, Don said that possibly the pans could only be made arallable

four hours in advance. "Ion said nothing would be happening within the

next 48 hours and that, if there was a good reason for the Ambassador

to change his planned 31 October departure, ite Ambassador vouid le

Informed in time to make his own decision.

= 37 =

SECRET-EYES OMLY

---

## Page 43

14-1000d

SECRET-EYES ONLY

29 October

CIA cable fror Saigon (SAIG 2040)

In an eyes only cable sent via CIA channels, Lodge gives his

vleus on the seemingly iminent coup:

"In surmary. It would ayer"

that a coup attempt by the generals' group 1s imminent... and that

no positive action by the USG can prevent a coup attempt short of

infoming Dies and Taù. •

-Although there heve been no requests

to date by the generals for saterial or financial support, we must

anticipare that such request may be forthcoming. ..:

Presidentiel Meeting on Vietnam. CIA participants: DCI, DDP.

& C/re.

Record by DDP & C/FE.

It was suggested that 1n the Ambassador's absence, Harkins,

Trueheart, and David Snith act as a committee. to direct any coup

operation. DCI countered with the view that Smith should not be

Involved in such a polley-making function, although he would be in

@ position to provide technical advice to Harkins and Trueheart as

well as carry out their instructions in the operational fleld. The

President stated that if the forces in Saigon were not clearly in

favor of the coup, ve should discourage its launching. The Attorney

General felt the US was risking too much based on flimsy evidence.

The DCI stated his view that even a successful coup would create a

period of interregnim and confusion which misht only be solved by :

& second or third coup.

38

SECRET-EYES ONLY

list

---

## Page 44

SECRET-EYES CALY

30 October

CIA cable to Sairon (DIP 79109)

Bundy to Lodge:

chances of action with or without

our approval no. so sienificant that ve should urgently consider our

attitude and contingency plans.

• . . . . Believe car attitude.to

colp group can still have decisive effect on its decision.

We must have assurance balance of forces clearly fajorable.

Conein should express to Don that we do not find presently revealed

plans give

clear prospect of quick results..

• . ..We badly need

some corroborative evidence whether Minh and others directly and

completely involved. •

.. highest authority desires it clearly

unairstood that after your departure larkins should participate in

supervision of uli coup coniacts and that in evert a coup begins,

he become head of country team. . . . . .

CIA cable frou Saigon (SAIG 2063)

Lodge's reply:.

".. . . . do not think ve have the pover

to

delay or discourage a coup. Don has made it clear many times that

this 16 a Vietnamese affair.

• • I believe we should continue

our present position of keeping hands off but continue to monitor

and press for more detailed information. has been analyzing

forces for some time and it is their estimate that the generals have

probably figured their chances pretty closely.

• It does

not seem sensible to have the military in charge

of a matter which

Is so profoundly political as a change of goverment. •

As to requests from the generals, they may well have need of funds

at the last moment with which to buy off potential orposition.

To

the extent that these finds can be passed discreetly, I believe we

should furnish they. .

• If we were convinced that the coup

vas going to fail, we would of course do everything ve could to

stop 1t.

Gen. Harkins has read this and does not concur."

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR: 79407)

We do not accept as a basis for US policy

that we have no poser to delay or discourage a coup.

• • We

cannot linit ourselves to proposition implied in your message that only

conviction of certain failure justifies intervention... . . . US

authorities vill reject appeals for direct intervention from either

eleand of the country ame der enge leavess

The White House repeats its instructions on

- 39..

SEGRET-EYES CHLY

---

## Page 45

C

STONT-EVES ONLY

30 October (continued)

CIA cable from Saizon (SAIG 2094)

Cable fros lodge (In Its entirety): "Thanks for your sagacious

Instruction.

2111 carry cut to best of my ability.

1 November

The coup began at 1315 hours, Saigon time, which is equivalent

to 0015 hours, Washington time, 1 November. The following account

18 drawn from several sources: the Saigon Station's history of the

coup and various cables.

At 1315 hours, the Alde de Camp to General Don came to Conein's

house, told his that the coup was in progress, and said that General

Don wanted Conein at Joint General Staff (JCS) headquarters.

= 40-

SECRET-EYES OHLY

---

## Page 46

SECRET-EVES OMLY

Thus, Conein went to JGS headquarters and remained at the

amand post throughout the struggle. Before leaving his home,

Conein alerted the station by radio. Upon arriving at JGS headquarters,

Conein was told by General Don that Don had tried unsuccessfully to

reach Coneln earlier

by telephone.. A later check revealed that

Conein's telephone was out of order. Conein vas told that he was to

keep a telephone line open to the Ambassador. Because there was a CIA

officer on the scere and in intimate contact with the coup priacipals,

4]

SEGRET -EVES CRY

---

## Page 47

SECRET-EYES ONLY

the station vas able to report alnost minute-by-minute progress of

the coup.

The fact that Conein was at JGS headquarters 1s well known in

official circles. On 24 October, headquarters had cabled the station:

"In future do not repeat not put nessage re coup plots or runors in

CRITIC channel. Rather you should slug them INEDIATE ATTENTON FOR

BRENT." As a consequence, the first cabled reports from the station

came in as regular CIA cables and vere put onto the CRITIC network

here at headquarters. The first cable was received at headquarters

at 0117 hours, Washington time, and was filed on the CRITIC network

at 0159. At 0256 hours, following receipt of the sixth non-CRITIC

cable, headquarters instructed the station to put the coup reporting

on the CRITIC network at the station. Sometime during the day of

1 November (the confirmation copy of the cable lacks'& date/time

stemp) headquarters cabied a warning to the station against including

the names of CIA personnel in Its CRITIC cables. Cosein is identifled

by name and as being at JGS headquarters in eleven CRIMIC messages,

seven of which were put into the CRITIC channel, vithout the name

being deleted, here at headquarters.

- At 1030 hours 2 November (in Saigon) the Saigon radio announced

that both Diem and Nhu had committed suicide by taking poison. later

In the day General Minh said that Diem and Nhu escaped from Gia Long

- 42

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 48

Palace shortly after 0700 hours on 2 lovember by a tunnel unknown

to the gencrals.. They left the tunnel in the dock area and went to

a Catholic church in Cholon where they took poison. They were

discovered at the church at 1030 hours.

We do not have a truly reliable account of the circunstances

of thelr deaths, but they certainly were not by suicide. According

to one of Conein's reports, Dien called General Don at 0650 hours

2 November and offered to surrender unconditiorally. General Minh

-Immediately ordered all telephones removed fron roons in their JCS

conmand post area. This cut off all communication with the outside

except for radios under Minh's control.

On 16 November 1963 a field-grade officer of the JGS, who was

deeply Involved in the coup and whose rellabilliy the station could

not Judge (nor did 1t name him), gave a station officer two photographs

of the bodies of Diem and Nhu, which he claimed he had taken at the

request of General Kim. The photographs show that the deaths were

very bloody. The source gave the following account of the deaths:

- 43 -

SECRET-ETES OWLY

---

## Page 49

14-00000

SECRET-EVES ONLY

To recap:

a. CIA was not in favor of the decision to abandon the

Dien regime, but faithfully carried out instructions.

bo CIA officers Conein and Spera were the contacts with the

coup generals, but only as approved and under instructions.

C. A CIA OffICeT, ConelD, tas at the generals' comand

post throughout the fighting.

e. CIA had no hand in the assassinations and had no

foreknowledge of them.

SESRET-EYES ONLY

---

