# 104-10096-10047

## Page 1

104-10096-10047

15 May 1972

MENORANDUN OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECT

: Meeting with Hal Henaris, Hl May 1972

1. Hal Hendris called my home on 10 May, saying that he wan

in Wachingion and wiched to see ne. Arrangemoite wore later made lo

mect hin in dorntown Washington at a streci corner at 8:00 am on

11 May. I picked him up an scheduled, and after driving arouad awhile

we had breakfat at the Marriot Notel in Rosolya, aiter which I drove

him to the airport so he could catch the 10:30 a.m. plane to New York.

2. Hendrix had a number of points lo convey, bu! nons of ther

were of such importaace foi him to have made a trip to Washington

just to coc inc. Thorefore, his explanation seems plausicio that ho wan

in Washington bisically to see Jerry Humifin of the Time/Liic bureau

to discuss a lcad on who might have lealed itt docurnents to Jack Anderso

Hendris explained that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffisn"

named Enu Goodfriend that the person who furnished the l'lI documents

to Jacl: Anderson was Irving Davidson, an old friend of Anúcreon who some

yearu ago had once set anide a cook in his office for Andorion lo use on

occasion. Coodfriend said that the picture of Dita Beard with a nuirber

of her Washingion contacts publiched carly in the I1T scandal days had

included Davidson somewiere in the group. Davidson is describe as a

lobbyict for one os more Latin Americon Governments as vell as for

Isreel. Hannifin is considored a very knowledgcable and trusted friend

by Hendrix who wanted Hannifin's opinion whether Davidson might in

fact be & source of Andorron't. Hannifin's initial impression was

that this was a icmote possibility, but he said he would chock around and

try and talk to Davidson himsoll lo see mnether he coule get i rise on

the question ofiTT. Hendris said he come away front the mocting with;

Hannifin prolly well convineed that the load to Davidson as the source or

ITt documents was

probably not a good one.

---

## Page 2

02000

3. Hendrix commented to me that the general iceling in fi.X.

in that there may be two pencirations in the Washington olice, two in

the N. Y. office, and one in their Cleveland office. He did not claborate.

4. Hendrix made the following comments about the ITT /Chile

documonts:

A. He was aware that Raymond Brittenham, whom he

described as a senior Vice President and a hit of a fuddy duddy

who enjoys Harold Geneen's confidence, had first acen Johu icCone

and then come to. Washington recostly to tall with Ageasy reprosente

about the ITI/ Chile documents. 'One proposal tal Briltcohan had

thought of discussing with the Agency was that several sensitive

documento be turned ovos to the Agency for rafekceping. He did

not seem to know whether this had actually been discussed by

Brittenham with the Agency, Hendrix szid that I rittenhamn had

diccuered with the Agency what I'IT might gay in the Serate

boarings, what the Agency might say, die.

(I did not acknowiedge

having known that Erittenhom mit with ageaty copiesonütires,

saying that this was presunably & ?t floor matter.

He might not

have bolievod ino, but i thought it better not lo confirin ts fact

to hing that & contact had in fact taken place since he apparently

did not talk to Brittenham himself about this. )

B. Enu Schafer, the lawyer of the firm in Washington

retained by ITT as counsel for the espected Senate hearings on

Chilean activitics of ITT, has told ITI officiale that he thinks

the timing and intensity of the Senate sub-committee interest in

the Chilean activities of ITT will depend on the general political

situation in the U.S., particularly in Viet Nam. Schafer has beci

in touch with Pat Holt, the sub-conmittee aide.

C.

None of the IT T. documents or Chile have been turned

over yet to the Senate sui-committee. The documente are still

boing worked on byITI. When preseed an to the quantity involved,

lenarix said the total is about 500 documents.

RIE

---

## Page 3

- 3.

D. The three documents licndris mentioned to me at our

last mecting as being incriminating from the point of view of

documeriting ITT funds of political activitica in Chile have not

been destroyed. ITT's chief lawyer in N. Y. has told Hendri:

that while away on a trip recently, at least four young lawyers

in his offico read these documents. He tried to trausfer onc

of the lawyers out of his office, and the man threatened to blow

the whistle on ITT over these documents if transcried. One

of tho other four lawyers feels equally strongly about these

documents. As a resuli, the documents cannot be destroyed

It ic not clear, however, whether ITI plans to turn these three

documents over to the Senate. Evidontally ITI had first hoped

to turn these documents over to the Agency for safekcening in

preference to turning them over to the Senate.

E. It has been determined by ITT lawyers that biocking

out proper names in docurnents before they turn the documenis

over to the Senate sub-committee is permissable. The ITT

lawyers are now going over ali 500 documenta to do this, concentra

on the names of Chileans. If they finally turn over the three

sensitive documents to the committee, names of persons, banks,

and finding mechanisms will be deleted, but the basic purpose of

IT'T funding Alessandri cannot be hidden.

F. In discussing these three decuments, Hendris said

that the man in N.Y. to whom II I was to have paid the money for

Alessandri was (inu) Orchard, a Chilean employed by UN Secretari:

(rather than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN). The comp

through which the payments were to be made was the Lone Stai

Shipping Company. (This agrees with information in the files).

I acked whether the Swiss Bank account number for other trans-

actions was also listed there, and Hendrix looked puzzled and said

that no Swiss Bank account was involved.

When I pressed and

said my understanding wer that carlier he had told me money for

the Edwards group went through a Swies account, he merely

said there were no references to that in these three documentr.

He thon said one of the three documents was unfortunately a

moscage from Gerrily authorizing thei the Alessandri movement be

given "half the sum recommended by liendris."

---

## Page 4

5. Hendrix spoke by telephone to Berreller on 9 or 10 Nay at

which time Berrellex reported on a meeting that day with HÜBRIG-2

in Buenos Aires. This was the firat time that they had met since their

early April meeting in N. I. Berrellez told FÜBRIG-? that ho had not

been able to make the deposit on the second $100, 000 for reasons Hendrix

had explained earlier to me. FUBRIG-? was concerned by this and asked

that ITT do everything possibie to resume these payments since he had

money. troubles.

(Berrellez remarked, however, thaiDUBRIG-? seemed

in very good spirts porsonally, and quite optimistic about the chances

of the opposition in Chile). Hendrix plans to reopen the question of resumin

payments to the Edwarde people in Chile when he gets back to N. X. and

Bees Gerrity.

6. The U.S, manager of the IT I telephone manufacturing plant

in Chile slipped up to the States a few days ago and reported that he

thought the government would be moving in on the IlT property very

soon. He had already been authorized by the company lo send his

furniture up. IT'T is also arking Benjamin Holmes to come up to the

U.S. Ion' a visit. I reirarked thai my recollection was that Holmes

was on rather good personal contact with President Salvador Allende,

and Jose Toj, but Hendrix commented that even Holines was noir under

suspicion by the Government of Chile.

7. Hondrix heard yesterday from Bob Deach (phonetic) of the.

Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had

left his position at OPIC and is now the president of a book seller's

association according to a press item which appeared within the last

two wocks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew.

anything about it which I said I did not.

8. He had a rather interesting explanation of the by-play in

Chile on turning the ITT nationalisation question over to the Congiess to

dacide.

Berrellez reports that there has been a delay in Allende's

proposal that Congress handle the ITT nationalization because of

disagreement on how to procced. The fear of some hard-liners was

that the government was not being tough enough on ITI. Allende's intent

apparently is to mako a proposal that the Congress would be forced to

rejoot "licraby giving tho Prosidont a chanco io call à plebiscite on ile

issue which, being about ITT, he could not possibly lose. An interesting

thought.

---

## Page 5

- 5-

1. The daughter of Hendrix is engaged to Lewis (''Ion")

Constantino, who is coplying for a job with the agency.

Fe las

passed

certain crams and was to have an interview in Washington on ll May

followed by a physical exum shortly afterwards. A hitch has devcioped

in that he was originally considered for some sort of & job in the photo-

graphic field, but he has been told the job has now boen filled by someone

who rcturned to the job so thai instead he is boing ofisred a 2-3 year

contract, probably to go lo laos. De is not sure of the carcer opportunity

a contract status would give hiin, and is torn between this situation ond

some offer now being made by InS. He has long wanted a job with the

Agency. (Fendrix ciuimed that Constantine is not aware that his fiancee

once worked for the

and that she has stuck to hat

story as

far ne emoloyment goes.

Hendrix made a big point of thic.) I said it

would be possible to check what the situation was and to find out what the

Agency's intentions vere toward this person, but that i could not affoct

in any way the decicion of hiring, or undce whet conditions. Hendrix

was carol at all tiros not to ant for special treatment, but triber he

expropses a slight degree of concern es to the apparent change in job

offers. I rcolied that as far as I vad aware, ony percon who was hired

on a contraci basis who proved himseli to be oi exceptionslly ligh

capability could ond up as a career employee with us, but it word depena

on employment ceilings, etc, at the time such a switch was activoly

considered. He cecmed satisfied with this answer.

I acid I would choci-

and let hira know if there were any unsual circumstances in this case.

My improscion is that Hendriz is not overly fond of this follow, but

r'especto him and would not try to, interfere on his bohule either way.

Jonathan G. Hanke

c/WII/CA

---

