# 104-10185-10124

## Page 1

104-10185-10124

CENTRAL INTELUCENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY. Cuba

susecT Oscar GARCIA

NO FORLEGE DISSE

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

cs: 01-316/00681:60

112 August 2964ke2

C$: 311/00115-64

DATE OF

1964:

INFO.

PLACE S

Washington,

D.C.

DATÉ ACC. AUgUS-

*GB/

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE:"

former Cuban IS Officer uco served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service untfl April'1964

Headquartor Comments.

The folloving report is one of s serios containing personality

infornicion provided by the

and includes supplerental "

information from the rocords of this igercy.

It 25 requented tha: the addressees take no action on any

of the dadividuals.dn.go.0d

in the personality coports

1.

Oscar. GasciA, pseudonym:

orlando," as assigned tu the

Departarento

Liberacion Aacional

(ational Liberation

Department. INj in the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(General Directornte of Intelligence - DGI) as a desk officer

in charge of operations In Costa Rica..

Prior to this

assignent, CARCIA was an instructor in secret iriting and

codes and ciphers an the Depairsent of Technical Operat10na1

Support: (NI) 1n. the DüT.

In approxinatoly February 1964

GARCIA was trársferred from the Ul Deparincet because of'a:

dispute wich the deartner, chiel: Guillerio ARASTaGUI.

pseudonym "Rene." Although it is cor certain, it is

probable

that CARCIA worked 2or ybe, Departmento de Seguridad

del Estado (Deparzment of Staze Security - DSE) prior to the

time he began working for the DGI.

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OCR

s/po

STATE

014

AiMY

REM

CINCLANT

•(ola: Finlal distribution indicefend by 1m10)

MA TACN

048A/RK

TSA/MOB.

XE/LADR

/8A/5

87/SA/CI

KA/HAVE

TOTALS

KH/SA 7 (1), WE 1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

! NiSA

CINCSO E

IaNS

M7908

33:

Mrisal

(2), Ci 4,

AID 1

Manu sin

EBI 2

REPS

L4-1633

NO PROJECT

(ANMLG--1)

CSCI:310/00651-3

CODINATING CLEAN

114940 >

---

## Page 2

SE CAL

NO FORETON DISSEI

can on in sonorsiately 1940. 1s five: feot eight

a strong: bufld

svarthy

u1ac halt, one can bron eyes. I

Mate S

Content

The records of this Agency revent no identiflable

Intornation 'on GARCIA.

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

