# 104-10187-10026

## Page 1

104-10187-10026

HOUSE CHECK COMTE ON ASSA5308A7005 STAFE NEH495

FILE TITLE/NUINER/VOLUPU::

KDFACTOR VOLI

-Paduction

INCLUSIVE DATES: 24_ CCt 1955 - 23. Jul 19513

CUSTODINI. UNIT/LOCATION: _LA/DDO

Pn's: 3034

DELITIONS, IF AVY:-

DATT

RECEIVED RETURNED

26-6.78

6/26

66/27/28

2/7,14

8 5 JUL 1978

10,31

10:31

15 NOU28

12/20/78

KEVINED TY

(PRINT YANE)

HARDwAY

D Haird

HARDWAR

HAROWAI

SAN MARSURY

HARDWAY

STONATORE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

D. Handway

O HARDWAY

1. Karal

story

Hardway

sarawan

Hardway

NO FOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

SEASET

FURNITO RECORDS CENTE

b0a 173-F552

TEN NSS

433499

DESO SITED

PRODUCTI

FOLDER

KOFACTOR

30-6-74/4

---

## Page 2

50 - 6- 74/4

Other Agency Doc

ONE ENCLOSED

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

-NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER.

FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

17-181

FOR 2593

---

## Page 4

SECRET

FROM: (Meodquartere component)

WH/ 1:

SUBJELI AND

AND FIELO NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

1O

IP/AN

i (Stallon/Base)

FROM: (Dietston)

Mexico City

AHD

INFORMATION FOR'REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUON IN

ITEM: ID ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN: AMINDING A' TITLE. CITE

ANY

THAS SUCH AS 301 ON

PROICIANIS THAT ARE RE•

ITEM: J'ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WIL

LATED

THE FILE COVINED OY THIS HIOUEST ITEM 1O MAY

APPEAR ON THE FIELO COPIES AND DA MACHINE LISTS.

ALSO RE LISTO TO GIVE REASONS FOR INSACTION HEINRE"

ATEN O-ALL REMARKS'MUST OR STARILE

QUESTED.

TO IDENTIY THE TUBE DE MAITHLAL'TED HE PLACEO

IN A FILI OR TU MAKE OTAIN ENPLANATOHY REMARKS

ITER Y AND O-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-

.:BOLS. FOM

FICLO STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUANTEHS ELE.

ITEM 11 •A RICOROS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE:

•MENTS ACCORDINO TO ESTAULISMEO NUMERIC ÇODES.

QUESTS CONSULT YOUR MMO ON ANY PNUBLIMS THAT ARISE

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILI

3.

CODE FILES NUMBCH

COUNTRY. NUMBLA

CATEGORY NUMBIN

SUDJECT

PROJECT

050

006

TAMECIFI BURNET NUMBER

074/4

FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUQJECT: (PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACEST

KDFACTOR

ANALYSIS ACTION

OPEN FILE

X/CLOSE FUE INDIAIR OPOSIT

AMEND FILE TITLE

O REMANS ICON PIELD BISTINUTENOREA

ACTION REQUIRED

HETAIN

DEFOSITION

UESTRUCTION RECOMMENCCO

THRU IDATEI

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONGYI

HOLD IN

CS FILES

HMM

RESTRICTED

8. INITRENTEO NEADOUARTENS DESK (LIST ACTION DESK FIESTO

-050

FILES ACTION

UNRESTHICTED

CHANGE PERMANENTLY TO

"HePARE FOLDER AND

'OFFICER A DESSE

SEND TO REQUESTER

10.

CONMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTINE INSTRUCTIONSI

8 8.

ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE ON ORANCH/DESK 4. O.

EFFECTVE DATI

23 July 1923

FORM

OBSOLETE PHEVIOUS

12-83

812

EDITIONS

82-05

12

COORDINATION

SIGNATURE OF URANCH/DESK 4. O

(WHEN APPLICABLE)

50

SECRET

HID APPROVAL

REQUEST APPROVED OY

CODE FILES NUMER

38

74/1

1— E3 COPY

---

## Page 5

GACLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

and St ONLY

D COMDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

(X] SECRET

SUBJECT: Opmenali

FROM

IP/DPI

CB-72

10, lOrer designaton mom mumber, ard

buckling)

DATE:

•RE CHIVEO

x7737

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

#11117-17162

DaTe

comme a a tire our code and ot contin

Chief/Wa/Reg•

-2.

3 сон/ma 3052

IP/FILES

BAY. I/CILES, EXT. 686 7

TER ATTACEMENTS. RECORDS

CENTER J0S NO.

SOX 112 -

23.83

13-158.08

10.

12

13.

yes. file as pact

HKDFALTORFLOY

550-6-7414

1d.

FORM

9-08

610 Smoos CY SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

JA TERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 6

CLASSICATION

DiSPATCH

SECRET

Chief. Western Hemisphere Division

MATIO LOR DOI KING

DO SHOUTING PIQUIRIO

ONLY QUALITO DISA

CAN JUDGE INDLING

chiet of station, Moxico city Dif

AROSLA

Forwarding of KDFACTOR/KDABSINTHE and KDLITERAL Photo Files:

ACTION REQUIRED. RUELINELS:

ACTION REQUIRED:

With Headquarters Desk concurrence, retain

files in Records Center for a ten-year period.

REFERENCE

HMMT-11,368, 17 March 1972

In the summer of 1972, the KDABSINTHE and KLITERAL

basehouses

of the KDFACTOR Project were closed definitely.

Since

August 1969, we have periodically been sending you the photograph-

ic coverage files from these two basehouses.

We are sending herewith the remaining photographic produc

tion files which were at the station.

These

files cover photo

holdings for the period January 1971 through July 1972 when the

last basehouse (KDABSINTHE) was closed.

With Headquarters Desk concurrence, it is requested that

you retain these files in Records Center for a ten-year period.

Persi i. farimilant

Grace HI. FARMILANT

ATTACHMENT:

Two (2) boxes of photos, h/w

DISTRIBUTION:

Orig & 2 - C/WHD (w/att, h/w)

RECROS

WARNING

NOTICE

SANBIRIE INRELGGONCA SCUSCES

CROSS RUTRENES TO

I DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMT -12,162

PLASSIFICAIION

SECRET

DATE

20 July 1973

MOS THIS NUMBIR

---

## Page 7

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIONS: CLASSIDED MESSAGE

FERSON-INT: NOTWIS

SECRET

(Ahen falled In)

TOTAL COPIE NI

BACIURAD 1D, e BUY

POUTING AND OR INITIALS BET BY

we Be Da

DY:

1213M LAi

5B8

FILE VR IP AN

WH8

ar, clops, Fl

.822

SECRET 182015Z APR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19539

DIRECTOR.

18 AR N 589072

REDTOP AERICK

REFS: A• HMMA 41,550, 26 JAN 72

Be DIRECTOR 237413

1. FLIGHT MANIFEST SHOWS PCS ARRIVAL 13 APRIL 72

EASTERN FLT 901 OF%

A) ALEKSEY ALEKSANDROVICH MURAP OV, WIFE,

IRINA ARKAD YEVNA AND SON, IGOR. PER SENSITIVE HQS

SOURCE INFO, KURAPOV TO FILL SUPPLEMENIARY POST AT

KISPASTA

KOKACTOB Prop

file?

SOVEMB•

PER KDABSINTHE, PRINCIPAL CONTACTS SINCE

ARRIVAL HAVE BEEN SOVEMB GUARDS, YURIY BABASHKIN,

OLEG VASILYEV AND MIKHAIL VAR AVNO.

B> ANATOLIY MIKHAYLOVICH OV OZDEV, WIFE,

LYUDMILA VASIL YEVNA AND SON, MIKHAIL. GOZDEV TO

REPLACE KGB CHAUFFEUR, VLADIMIR VASILYEVICH MAKAR OV

(201-342942), WHO DEPARTING PCS 24 APRIL 72°

2. REQUEST CLARIFICATION 20IS ASSIGNED KURAPO! AND

GOZDEV. REF B HAS SAME 201 FOR BOTH.

"3o FILE:

201-3429428 KURAPOV 201 AND GOZDEV 201•

GP - 1

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 8

PROCESSING ACTION

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

ATTENTION: Records Management: Oilice:

NO IRONING HOURED

CRY QUALTED DESE

SUBJECT

Cb101 01 Station, Mextoo City

2 Porwarding Of KOFACTOR/KDABSINTH & IDLITERAL Photo. Coverage Piles

TERGUIRED - BEFFECNCIS

ACTION REQUIRED:

REFERENCE

Retention of files in Records Center for a

ten-year perlod:

HNHA-39,078, 18 June 1970

Forwarded herewith is one box of KDABSINTH and

KDLITERAL photographic coverage files covering the period

June through. December 1969;

Rita I. CATTARANGES

ATTACHMENT:

One bos, b/

DISTRIBUTION:

3 - C/THD (*/att, b/m)

1069a

102.000

i2126

48294509

3S REFERENCI

CS COPY

TDSPATON SYMBOL AXD MUMST

HMMA-40, 562

CRASSEFICATION

•SECRET

: 20157

21 May 1971

, 173 FLE WUNBER

" 50-6-74/4

---

## Page 9

SECRET

SUBJECT Prank CAMDAN (CaBe HQU 127-198)

RETARINCE: " Our Memorandum dated 5 March 1970 entitled

Bruce DAKAR:

1.

CAS/MEX monitored the 14 March mooting site where

Frank CAMDEN was scheduled to meet his Sovlet contact.

One

male individual arrived at 1803 hours,

remained 15 minutes

and departed without being met.

CAS/NEX observation of the

eite continued until 1830 hours.

2. The sale was described as fairly

short and robust

with

brown halt.

He wore dark glasses and a blue sweater,

carried a newspapor in his hand.

We would appreciate recelving a report on CAMDEN's

trip to Mexico.

BASIC: MEXICO CITY 2741, dated 17 March 1970

PROJECT: LIEMPTY

LIAISON: None

WH/1/L

Distribution:

Orig. and

2

:Imr/3E04/4167:1973 (19 March 70)

1

- CI/LIAISON

SB/X/WH

SB/CI/0

CI/OPS/WH

50-6-74/4

201-862965

- Chrono

(LIENPTY/Prod.)

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CLASSIE! TE

file no.

FILE RIDI

O 81e.

' TUSSIFIED MESSAGE I

SECRET

O31A1JON 1BB9:00893E

• REPRODUCTI

Producte

ACTION

C/NE4

FILE GREa

WU RID COPY

ADVANC#

Mini B

SECRET LOBOOZ CITE MEXICO CITY 3868

I6F0 CIRESTOR

KAPOR AJiNA

REF LEGSH

DO POT BOXES RINGWEN AND GROUIRED FACH JANUSY

IN MEXICO CITATE INTO ARCH STATION NOGMALLY CBTIG

NEW MUCONORATION BOXES.

2: 0c: M16383

CIT: CAN ATTEMS: GOTAIN TWO ON MORE P.R. BOXES USIN

COME WE ME W9EG AS FICTEOTGUO BUNGES ME

i9F of

?.

S35GG6G0: ONE SON STUB UNIST GiTATTLE D9M11S0

FOR DEX MODERE, LIEDERN 1D HUSS DOSE ROUGINE SORRIETIG

OU THATS TIME EOR WESK PASTO ASTER

TEnG

---

## Page 11

fix LIEMPTY prod

LIENPTY - Stattonary Photo Coverage

HINA- 33591 - 4 December 1967.

LILYRIC photos for

identification by Station

Tegucigalpa asset SWWATERFRONT-1.

Agent recently met Soviet official in Mexico who is

Third Secretary

HMMA-30151, 20 September 1966

LIESIPTY/LIMITED/LILYRIC photo coveraze was of

value in late 1966 in assessing the motivatation and

interrity of bICOll;

access agent to Stanialaus

Sergoyevich SIGNIKOV (AEQUALITY) .

Soviet Embagsy

Administrative officer in September, 1966.

AEBURBLE

Photographic coverage of the target installations by

LIEMPTY in early 1967 aided in the identification of

an unknown Soviet intelligence officer who assisted in

the training of a double agent being handled by the

FBI.

AEGINMICK

In early 1967 during the initial phases of a double

agent case under FBI control,

furnished useful evidence.

the agent's contact with two. Soviet officials, enabled

their identification and established the fact of their

32620

the LIEMPTY/LIMITED/

The LIEMPTY project verified

KGB

membership.

---

## Page 12

24 November 1967

MENORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

LIENPTY Photo Surveillance Project Contribution

to Soviet Operations Program

This rather unique operation has unquestionably

made a major contribution to the increasingly effective

Sov Ops program of the Mexico Station.

On the positive

side its principal value lies in the identification of

the Mexican and third national contacts of the Soviets,

from which we must select and develop the "access

agents" so vital to our operations against the Soviet

human target.

LIENPTY also provides us with a much

cleaner picture of inner relationships

and activity

patterns within the Soriet mission itself, which in

turn facilitates effective targetting.

The CE value of

an LIENPTY type proicet as a monitory of real ind

potential agent contacts of the Soviets, is of course

obvious.

2.

It is important to note that LIEMPTY is not,

as might be the case in

Stations of lesser overall

capabilitia simple case of

photography (or observation)

for the record.

Rather it is an important facet of a

concerted high priority effort to get at and recruit

individual Soriets.

Chief, SB/0/WH

---

## Page 13

ECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN

18 J00G

Dirooter

Foderal Baron

0. D

west lention

Attention

Jo Pandas

1 Deputy Direstor for Plana

"Trastors to Boulet mabsony, lanceo City

2. A sot of photos abortag the tao man and chila are

hareby forried your Euronu for identifiention.

this office

vould appractato boing Infosnod 1l either of the mon ta thi

phoros la sdentitled.

Abtanksanta:

FLotos (3)

CSCI-326/02596-67

ARZ

ABSTRACT

272K

SECRET NO F0299 A SET

50: 1-74/4

---

## Page 14

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSE

BASIC: IRNA-32051, 22 Nay 1967

PROJICT: LILYRIC

LIAISON: None

cscI-316/02596-67

HA/1/J.Zerance/Jkf

6 June 2067

Distribution:

Ortg & 1 = Addressee

1

RI: (50-6-74/4)

1

- CI/LIA

CI/RSA

WIl/ 1, MEXI

in/1/Chrono

- 111/1/ Jane (hold)

1 - WHI/FO/N

Coordinated with:

SB/0/w

MAN 10111.01

TOWNER

SECRET NO FORMIEN DISSEM

---

## Page 15

PROJeT

LIRAPET

SOURCE

DATE OF INFORMÄTION

11 Jan: 59

DATE ACQUIREO

FIELO DISTRIBUTION

DATE

GRADE

BUOJECT

Statemente of Soviet Offtotal 1a

Mendeo Conserning soviet Selentire

lans and othor latlera

WASH. DISTRIDUTION

Lx26 Van 59

nELo No.

REPORT.

CAbLE

IAd

MN I-1121

"I MO2UI-269TS

3/385.793.

CONTENTS MEADOR COR PRACTION CUR

DI Sos! NOF CRN/CONTINUED CONTROL - as followss

"An offotal of the sontol labansy in karloo City has rade the rollodez salerter

no The sovloto aro not interested in the conquent

Source should have been Ilotod as LiNTY-S rather than LIPSTICK-32, In MXI-JL9T.

TAL REQUESTED

POMM NO.

1 JUN ES

688

KEPLACES FONA SG-0L

WHICH MAY DE UBEO

SECRET

SOURCE RECORD

• (24)

2

PROJECT

LI FMPTI

SCURCE

L. IEM97/3

SUBJECT

Melt to Terpleo of Boriet Ship NEIROVICH

RANCHENKO

DATELE INFORMATION

1922 Nor 59

DATE ACQUIRED"-

19-22 Mar 59

FIELD DISTRIDUTION

[cATe 3 apr 59

TUrADE B2

To 88, Navy, LAHebans

DATE

WASH. DISTRIBUTION

GRADE"

REPONT

CARLE

IN

TI NO: 50-8-25

REPONTS OFFICER

FIELD NO.

нАм 47Ца

c s

EVAL. REQUESTED

no diane

AREA

Mardeo/Seviet Unten

COMMENTS INLIBAN YOR ALJECTOR: CUSTOMIRS AND DES BYGLUATIONS SPECIAL DIBTRIDUTION OR LOAM NOYES CONMENTS TO PELA ITC.

ER did not corider Infe sorthy of dieren for folloring reasons:

Info on uhip too general and most of info alrendy lnow Into se cargo spid in prem.

marill me not dissend elther since the into almo his appeared in the fea

of the typo.

E8 doss apprectate reperto of tale type, bowver, HUnd aloo bae great interest in 1n.o

The KULTHy roprus who will viat

mante to MNl-12y) and cormented they wire sort helpful in/com/t hie coming trip.

leadeo e/ 27 Apyil han viewed the attac

FORM NO

100 9a 688

HIPLACES FORM 80-82

WHICH MAY DE USED

SECRET

SOURCE RECORD

(24)

2

---

## Page 16

SOURCE

| DATE OF INFONNATION

16 Ju Are 39.

DATE

GOER PIETREUTION 2

GRADE NE

DATE

WASM DISTRIDUTION

GRADE

TO

RIELO NO

arones 109s-3605

CADLE

R SO B40S

ESPORTS OFFICER

thoo

EVAL: #EQUESTED

AREA

Mendoo/186

I COMMENTS TO MILO MIC.

FORM NO

" sure on

688

Traits

REPLACES FORM SODa

MARCH MAY BE VOLO

SACHS: /NOPOIN/CONTINED CON BOL

SOURCE RECORD

(24)

3

PROJECT

79454

LIESCITS LITATI

BOURCE

Connied ario in Merleo with contesto la

Portin with good pentacto La the CrAL (B)

5 12

SUDJECT

Betsin do fuatenal

DATE OF INFOHMATION

25 Tet 60

DATE ACQUIRED

25 Pes 60

FIELD DISTRIBUTION

DATE

GRADE

26 Leb 60

TO

WASH.

DISTRIBUTION

DATE

- 77 Yeb 60

GRADE

TO

FIELD NO.

HEPORT

CABLE

iN

RI NO

NXXX-5201

8ul66248

REPORTS OFFICER

EVAL REQUESTED

COMMEATH IRRADON FOR HIJACTION CUSTOMERS ANO

diarea'd as rood.

3/229,192

AREA

textea/ custernia

EVALUATIONS, SPECIAL, DISTRIOUTION ON LOAN NOTES COMMENTA TO FIELD, ETC

FOAM, NO.

I JUN 35

688

REPLACES FONM 90-0Z

WHICH MAY DE USEO

SECRET/HOPIN/CiTTINED CATROL

SOURCE RECORD

(24)

3

---

## Page 17

SOURCE

LICMPTY 3 (E-3)

SUBJECT

Mexicon-Soviet Relationg.

COMMATE lARASON FOR REJACTION CUSTOMERS AND DE:

DATE OF INFORMATION

20 jec 61

DATE ACQUIRED

30. Doc 11

-FIELD DISTRIBUTION

DATE 29 JeC 01

GRADE

FiELD NO

REPORT IS: SI0T

CABLE

IN

REPORTS OFFICER

WASH. DISTRIBUTION

C5

EVAL REQUESTEO

DATE

3/197,553

GRADE

AREA

TO

nex/for Union/Csech:

EVALUATIONS SPECIAL DISTRIRUTION OR LOAN MOTTE CORNUNTE TO FIELD FICU

FOAM NO.

I JUN 88

688

RIFLACES FCAM 50-92

WHICH MAY BE USED

SOURCE RECORD

---

## Page 18

LIBTICK 19

1:109i

.. Pad Rodes

H04-9992

25. Ang 58

porational

Manual de Aerg

arTOS SCOP

HMMA -9992

24 Sept 1958

Operational/Marual de

Aeropuertas SCO.*

No soured lassing iper ten sho

...

---

## Page 19

NNA 7432

12 Jly 57

INHA: 8736

22 Nov 57

HMMA 10752

30

Jly 58

(axporteontal Pore)

903.0T

P

Operational/ SYNCIRONY

Concepeion Ribot

Mis col la neous

Increase of Cornie Influerce

Nexdcan Meteorolorca' Seriege

BGMDFN: ING

Yves JAN Curason

F30 2S

Ce aV, 332

SOURCS: L03

DISSEY,

ND

ipstick-2

schiris:

ing?.

Inceress to NS/Neth, photos

LIPSE TOX /2

also LIeD

Kassen in

1241968

unter

---

## Page 20

14-00600

LIEMPTY-15

7.09 Avl 20/0. 011566 2452

431:

15673

FAMA

12853

15 Apr

BEDOX/Doloree OLIN Contaet

of

Aleksander BEKIER (201-166686),

Poliah Legation "ounselor

•H-MA

13290

7. Aug

Franolaco Lula VELASCO

B-2

Also! LIVER

AISOs LIVESTOCK/2

he sous loggang dister dile, 940

---

## Page 21

C719

RADE

$1B0Y0Y

BaDox/Possible Polish Scholarship Candidate

SXG05. 123

FINLE WASN

EVAL

5852202, 2V44 9HESS 205

• B-3 1

•LISIPTY 17

SO:

12354

15 May

41808 LITHUS

INO CA

Sei

-Fallient

Tea 1960

---

## Page 22

Jarrier

& Li TS

FIMMA

12751

I May

HIMMA

12828

22 May

SOON MO

LICALLA

FELD

24.21

PCS TUAL

BAL CON DEO ANDRO FOR ENSORSE CUSTOM

MAL DE MEN LEGE DUDE FLAS

SUUSKET

REDCAP/LCIMPROVE/Daitriy N. KUZNETSOI

A satant Milltary and Naval Attache

Mexico City

REDCAP Vasilly Alekseyevich KOROLEY,

mployee Sor ainb Moxioo City

AlSO: LINOZZLE

ALSO? LIFEAT

HN0S-1355

NEXI-4055

IN 311l3

25. Jun 59

HD: -4353

MEXI - L055

IN-34147

-25 dun 58

Visit of Sov medical doctor in Mosi

B-2!

TDCS-

13/103,255

Sor delegatos to 17th world electrande

cingress in Mexico.

292

716 ventee

(egs 13 after)

---

## Page 23

exas Exam

Curseshier ee coate

£$03

Can DE THiS REAKT

188.9

AC200Y Cr 204247

2/229,022

s derader

IMPOSTURE CE REETING FORMER

Morro

1412

AREIT TRUE

:T: 1212212622

ALICION SIREN ANY SONN

PET.

In this satorialios of valun?

Flensu indicats gasctric value and cosmonte

i do to retrotost

1/M4S

22.30/59

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

WHEN FILLED I

FROM: (Heodquarters componen,

WH

1O

SUSJECT AND PROJICT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFIÇATION OF ACTION

10

(Stallon/Bose)

FROM: (Division)

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLATE ITEMA I THROVON iN

I- ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL

APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTE

ITEM A-ALL REMARNS MUST dE STERILE

ITAM 9 AND D-USE PIRBY THREE LETTERS OF

'DISPATCH SYM

BOLS FON

•FIELD STATIONS AND

LIST HEADQUARTERS-ELE

MENTS ACCORDINO TO ESTABLISHEO NUMERIC COOES

TYPE OF FILE

ITEM: 10-ENTER OLD TITLE THEN AMENDINO A TITLE.

CITE

ANY BILES

SUCH-AS 201

PROSCT FiLES

THAT ARE RE

LATED TO THE FILE COVERED OY THIS REQUEST: ITEM. IO MAY

ALSC

ĐE USED TO CIVE

QUESTED.

PRAGONI FOR THE

ACTION DEING ME:

TO IDENTITY THE TYPE OF MA!

RIAL TO BE PLACED

IN AFILE OR TO MAKE OTHEA LAPLANATORY REMARNS.

ITEM DE-A RECOROS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION NE

QUESTS

CONSULT YOUR AMO ON ANY PRODiEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

CODE FILE?

NUMOCA

COUNTRY NUMBER

• CATEGORY

Pe Lub to & it

SUBJECT

PROJECT

50

6

074/04

3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC BUBJECT, (PROJECTE LIMITED TO 19 SPACEST

KDFACTOR

ACTION REQUIRED:

ANALYSIS ACTION

OPEN FILE

CLORE FILE INDICATE DISPOSITION

XX AMeND VILE TITLE

REOPEN

•. REMARKE ITOR FIELO DISTRIBUTIONT

RETAIN

DISPOSITION

DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDEO

THAU •DATE!

FORMERLY LIEMPTY

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROTECTS ONLY,

& INTERESTED HEADOUARTERS DESK LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTI

HMM

50

FILESACTION

HOLD IN

CS PILES

RESTRICTED

UNRESTRICTED

CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO

OFFICER A DESKI

PREPARE FOLDER ANO

SEND TO AEQUESTER

10 COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS!

VERITIC:

1f.

ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/OLSA R. O.

12.

COORDINATION

SIONATURE OP BRANCH/DES" # D.

WHEN APPLICABLE)

EFFECTIVE DATE

CODE IFILES NUMBER

Binan

050

006

074/04

FORM

12-89

812

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

MEG.

SECRET

J8

I - ES COPT

---

## Page 25

TO RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

Lot. ta

rung

17w7/Prikuuun

COUNTEY AND AMBER

I.. CATEGORY ANO ARIMBRA

50. (rioxico)

¡i COMMENTS (intludo beiel damription de file de projeci)

6 Chorall anal

SECRET

Mertore Pulled ins

CASE FILE REQUEST

COMPO!

BUILDiNG

#H

OPEN FILE

AS INDICATIO

AND MINE

AS ASICATED

•CLOSE PILE

•QATE

RESTRICT FISH

TO (DES4).

PEEMANENT CRAIGEONT

/7-1/m1o0

TO MISER.

PREPARE FILE FOLDERS

AND SINO TO PIQUESTER.

Thoto acd physical surmillanco couraga ad suprt for station.

FOR RA VEE ONIT

I MOACT STATUS

2 RIELD STATIONES)

MOORS COMPORENT(S)

ECORD COPY

ENDORSEMENT

PIS REQUEST SATISFIES RECORDS REQUIREMENTS.

APPROVAL

•BEQUEST APPRODEO

¿FRECTIVE DATE

29

9E PRELIUS

C'etiler 145.3

Pitc

812

SECRET

FOB CHIEF, EI

RI CALE TITLE NUMBER

91758

N.S.

1381

---

