# 104-10119-10036

## Page 1

104-10119-10036). *

ATTACHMENT TO #4680 F SD/1/H

Hortzu, Pinkip C.

famen

pri, a405.

004680-20

The

---

## Page 2

14-00000

6 December 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

SUBJECT

: Herbert Itkin/ Mario Brod

1. Pursuant to your instructions, I had NYFO interview

Mr. Philip HORTON, to ascertain whether or not he might be the

Philip HARBIN, who was allegedly ITKIN's contact with the Agency

during 1954. Reference is made to the attached report of interview

of Mr. HORTON wherein he comments that he does not know ITKIN;

did not recruit him; and never acted as a "cut-out" or handler for

Mr. ITKIN. HORTON states further that since leaving OSS, he has

had no contact with the CIA. (This is not strictly true, since he

did write a letter to Mr. Helms not too long ago.)

2. I will ask the Office of Finance to attempt a trace of the

receipt for $5, 000. 00 that ITKIN claims he gave HARBIN in

approximately 1957. However, I am inclined to believe that this

recruitment is a figment of ITKIN's imagination.

Walkesene

Ward K. Greene

SA/EPD

Attachment

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Roproduos

EYLS ONLY

---

## Page 3

14-00000

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

RUC

(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

NEW YORK

(FIELD OFFICE)

CASE NO.

4 680

HORION, Philip C.

PERIOD OF IMVESTIGATION

2 December 1968

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

HEADQUARTERS

REPORT MADE BY 03

DATE

2 December 1968

CHARACTER OF CASE

F SD/1/H

APPROVED: -

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

DISTRIBUTION:

HDQS - orig

HDOS - 1

NYFO - 1

7080 646 48698841000 80191099

(49)

---

## Page 4

CASE NO. 4 680

GENERAL:

At New York, N. Y.

On 2 December 1968, Mr. Philip Clark HORTON was interviewed at his

employment, New School for Social Research, Center for New York City

Affairs, 72 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Mr. HORTON was cooperative.

Mr. HORTON stated he did not know Mr. Herbert ITKIN and did not

recruit him.

Mr. HORTON further stated that he did not act as a

"cut-out"

or handle Mr. ITKIN at any time.

In fact, Mr. HORTON stated that since leaving the Office of

Strategic Services that he has had no contact with its successor

organization; namely, the Central Intelligence Agency.

Attached herets is the photograph of HORTON, which Headquarters

requested be returned upon completion of assignment.

Attachment:

photo

JWD/ jhw

- 1 -

---

## Page 5

14-00000

P. 8

ATTACHMENT IO #4680 F SD/I/H

---

## Page 6

14-00000

ATTACHMENT TO #4680 F SD/1/H

---

