# 104-10183-10196

## Page 1

104-10183-10196

SECRET

DATE 26 Aug-El

BAT ON DEVELOPNENT OF AN INCOMING SIV MESSAGE

Division or Branch: Ma/SA/se

10:

(rica Units Use Pseudos

Report on the Development of SW Message #-

Jailed from

_ From AMLASH/1 (Agent Crypto)

_ to -

Date Letter -

Postmark -

- Rec'd Lab 25 AuE 64

1. It is requested that the Case Officer examine the visible correspondence for content and appear

ance, in order to assess its effectiveness as a cover for the SW message.

2 Results of the Techaical Examination:

a Did the envelope appear to have been opened in transit? Hot receded

b. Was any evidence of the SW visible prior to development?

3. Technical Comments:

Ha st present

4 Technical Suggestions To Be Relayed to the Agent:-

Submitted by:

(Field Units Sign in Pseudo)

Photocopies of the letter and envelope and a photocopy or transcript of the developed SW messag

are transmitted herewith

Form 60-1 (IN)

Revised Feb. 1963

SECRET

19m921001-09 and dosters femis

---

## Page 2

FRANSLATION

(undatod):

receired it

Hga" on

25 Auguat 19613*

(received by. ANNHIP on

21 Aüguat, at New York)

Dear friend Carloes

06

Istoilao fare no a s15t frou you; I charad it ulth (sarço.) I vas very

glad to have nows of you, because I have not had any answer to my lotter, whiol

I knou you receined in Pirta.

Non, I would Ilke to ask jou to help me dolvo a problem - one thatri

very important to me. The 16td lational isombly of Surgeons will to hold in.

In which I work at.

Madoo fron 15-21 November. A group of doctors in the department/sul the Comandante

Fajardo Hoapital have been Invited to attend thle Assembly. I chould also like to

attend;.

saboy and I roally noed to. I have been infornally invitad by a Horiean surgeon

who visits our hospital tro or thres times a year, but he haan't end me passago

(the fars). In addition, I don't think it would be very easy tor me to got a

rion. II, with the help of your "friendy" you could 1) get na Invited 2) send no

passage money and 3) send me a visa - all throe via the Mexican Labassy in Cuba,

80 1

I can go.

Well, hopo to see you in lesdco in Norembar, so until then.

As soon as you receive this, write me so that I shall know you have this

latter - of, call, no and said "Yes" of "No" about this matter.- whether it can be

solved fron there. I can try to arrange things here - but there 1s no certainty.

that I should bo able to get a Moxican visa, Besidos, I mould have to tate care

of soes of these "doinge" in the Ministry (Cobernacion?), and thatre never endy.

06

hie

Carlos, then you can, pick up a saall package that I send you vie your

---

## Page 3

'a!''

cousin Ivan tos

Senore Kabel Arango

305 S. No. Ith Torreco, Apt. 12

Miant; Morida

06

Po P. So - Brom (Karso) (0180):

Ipiasias saya. that 1t would help a lot to settlo the thinga youre

both talled about 11 Ventura euro to Cuba for a reek or tro. There are

several itons that ho sould have to soe parsonally, and talking or then la

not the sang as soding them.

If he coses, he could return when he wants to - that has already

boon docided on here.

I rocoirod Pepinis faro sona time ago.

06.

Abrazos Varzo

---

## Page 4

Querido uniRo Carloo!

03

Roc1b1 por via de Iglesias ui rogulo tuyo, el cual comperti con Marso.

ticho malegra al tenor notiolaa tuyas pues no he tenido nun respuesta a la care

que si se que recibiste en Paris.

•Ahora tengo interes en que se ayida a resolver un problema que tiene pir

1 (ron Importancti y es el alguiente: Del 15 al 21 de Noviembre se celebrar e

Maitto La XVI Asambles Nacional de Cirujanos.

En ol Depertamanto dol Hoepital Cuto. Fajardo dondo yo trabajo han aido.

invitado un stupo de Hedicos los cuales asistiran y yo tongo gran intores y necesidad

de alstir. Yo he sido livitido inforialmente por un cirujano lajicano que nos

maita ? o tros veega al ano foro ol no no munda pasaje y ademas la visa no creo sea

muy facil que se la consiga: Si es que con tus algos resuelro que l) se no lerito,

2) me enion pasajo 3) ne envion la visa, y todo esto atravos de la Embajada de Masdee

Bueno, espero verte en lajico en Moviembre asi es que hasta pr

Tari pronto recibiesta incribene para yo sube ai la rocibioto o Llamare

por telefono y me dice sI or no se resuelve porque yo puedo tratar de resolverlo

aqui paro no tengo soguridad por la visa Mejicana y ademas tengo que correr algunos

tranitos en el Miristerio que siespre no son faciles.

Un abrazo,

Rolando

P. Do do(8arz08)

Carlitos, crando puedas pasa a recoger un paquetito que to

envio por encargo de tu prino Ivan, y que se halla en la

direccion siguiente:

Sra. Habel. Arango

305 S. W. 9th Terrace, Apt. 12

Mient, Plorida

pasarse una semana o dos, pues, all resolveria muebo de le que

conversaron las. dado que exieten varios renglones que tendría

al que verlos parsonalmente, pues, no es lo miano verlos que

hablar de ellos.

S1 el víniese podra regresar cuando lo desos, pues, eso y esta

resualto por esta parto.

Recibi pasajo de Pepin haca tiempo abra (Marzo) 8

trin

---

