# 104-10192-10117

## Page 1

104-10192-10117

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT COVER SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLES DISSEM

DATE OF RIPORT

REFI..

UFG-5783

JINA VE

SATIRE OFFICER

inities

RO. NO.

1 September

1964

PORTS OFFICIA

Margarot R, NASKILL

ING OFFICE

Androw be. 164074.1601

#ACHANDUNO DATA AND COMMENTE

TYPIC

PRod..

res cr.

Source:

larcos RODRIGUEZ Menendez.

ANOT 2 in report DD_1096, dated 15 August 1964, from

In reference to the content

this report, RODRIGUEZ Menendez also reported in DD 86% of

14 May 1964 that the scholarships which were offered to the MDC

by the German Parts were cancelled because,

according to. Clauss

NORDELL of the German Party, the Germans had an honor pact with

the U.S, by which the Germans could not operate in Latin America

On the other hand, the Germans had the green light to operate

in Africa as they

deemed best.

NORDELL said that what KUBARK

was doing in PBRUNEY was nothing

compared with what the Germans

were. doing in Africa.

RID: No index

Group I:

Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONAL:

ENTRIES BELOW NIKO HOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANVING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

h - Has

frozed.

- 00/C

JMBARR

2

2

Santo Domirgo

- Frankfurt Station

COUATHY

SUBJECT

To

Miami Reps:

EUTRA-ACINGY

I cy - State

cy : F.B.I.

CUT Pouel

NO. OF ENCLOBUREE

REFERENCES

PADA

CONFTDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM.

DOI

NO. PAGES

APP#

7-10

1467

FOITION.

1801

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

Agerad

robios sorocos.

Palco

o Carnol Do judged.

COXFIDENTIAL

COYTTOLLED DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba/Nost Germany

REPORT NO

SUBIICI.

Offer of Assistance to the lDC by Dall ofreri & Soptembor 1964

the German Christian Denocratic

Party

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF 15 August 1964

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACO

United States, Miant

20 August 1964)

SOURCE:

1P9-3783

ВАР. 98 •8 РОДРАРІКЕ.

1.

3.

3.

A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained In the techniques

of information collection.

The group has provided useful

reports for about three years.

This infornation me obtained

Prom Marcos Rodriguez lienendes, & member of the MDc.

During a conversation with larcos Rodriguez Menender, Jose

Christlan

Cara car Banco e art bores the de quaisto on tatiano

condition that all members of the MDC executive leave United

States territory.

According to one of the Gerean delegates,

his countrynen

do not mant to have problema with the Americans

over the Cuban situation.

Conal agreod at a moeting of the MDC executive that all memberg

of tho executive should leave the Miami area and United States

territory for a place which vould be designated at a later dato.

However,

there mas to be an MDC delegation left in Miant which

- would Include:

Heriberto Valdes Molineda,

Molides presidente to Rodrigues

Menender, secretary. general, and Miss Slens Hartinez, Ereasurer.

According to Rodriguez Menender, Ernesto Rodriguez Diaz recently

vent to Santo Domingo in an attenpt to obtain nure assistance

from the Dominican Republie.

Tbe NDC intends to conduct milttary

activitles agalost Cuba on a larger acale.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DISTRIEUTION

---

