# 104-10186-10069

## Page 1

104-10186-10069

LINEORMATION REPORT.

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba.

SURECT Oreste VARELA (allas "Odon")

SSCRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTIL

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI-316/00630-65

10 February 1965

1

CSCI-316/00252-64

21 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO

1984

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

DATE AÇO DECember 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS I$ UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DIPINNIE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS YEMTATVI.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serfes containing personality.

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in'the personality reports wikhout

first checking with this Agency.

Intelligence - DGI). Me was a former radio announcer.

19 a captain in the

Cuban army and was stationed in Habana and

the Sierra Maestra.

VARELA, a Caucasian,

eight inches

tall, weighs

short, brown hair.l

Headguarters Comments

L. Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced

report, this Agency has no

additional identifiable information.

on VARELA.

5

D9 lo de

$

4

SECR

B

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

INSA

STAYE

I DIA

TARMY "

I NAVY

REP CINCLANT CISCSO E

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "ff".)

TXXX

- Toce

T FRI D

AINFORMATION REPORTE

INFORMATION REPORT

WII, SA/EON

NF/5/R

LILLIA

_UFGA 19020(9Dec64)

MH'SA/MOLL.

LOI/REA

JIEL

11

NO PROJECT (AMMUO/1)

=

CSCI -316/00630-65

JU/SACI 5.

RIDLAN

TOTALS MI/SA 8 (1), HE 1 (2), CIA, RID RID1

61M8800+

FORM HO !

19-51

---

