# 104-10186-10085

## Page 1

104-10186-10085

aNFORMATION REPORTE

#INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT "Alberto" (an alias)

DATE DISTR

CSCI-316/00539-65

5 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INTO

1964

PLACE & Washington,

D.

C.

DATE ACO.

January

• 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE CRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OI, CONTENT iS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who

served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 196..

Neadquarters Conments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information proviue.

y the source and includes suplemental

information iro.. the records of this Agency.

It is roquestes

that the adiressees ta'se no action on any of

the individuals

nentioned in

the personality reports without

dirst checxing with this Agency.

"Alberto" is enployed by the Direccion General de

(General Directorate of Intelligence • DG!)

and hancles the liaison with airport personnel concerning

the entry and exit oi forcigners who are of interest to

lie carries a carnet oi the Cuban Ninistry of Interior.

2.

"Alberto" is a Cuban citizen and was born in about

1925.

¿ive feet seven inches tall, weighs 150 pounds,

and has a merium build.

"Alberto" has a

white complexion,

blond, wary hair,

a short, thin, blond and greying mustache,

and light colored eyes.l

Neadquarters Conment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable

information on

"Alberto."

5

2

STATE

:| 014

ARAT

REP

CINCLANT

Nato Fiaty dissrebution indicated by "=*.)

I NAVY

CINCSO E

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TAIR

INSA

I&NS

compras apont

T oce

FBI 2

NORMATION RERORT INFORMATION REPORT

DE

SA COBUIT HE; 5R

ПІЕЛ

WE SA NOB: ILNE

il CLiRSA

RUD/IS

•SPALSA?. SA S 11).

*E 1 (:), CI 4.

RID 1

11A1908

NO PROJECT (A:3:UG/1

.CSCI-316/00529-65

COMOIAATIMO PELE ARIA

BLS: LD: SHik

---

