# 104-10179-10158

## Page 1

104-10179-10158

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce/

ES5Tya55 1950.

SECRET

-F50t8-Z 07580

• 8:2 SEGT.

TDCS 23-3/639.535

C1/OPS, CI/IC, FI, F1/D, FI/INT 6, IN, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, WE 4, WH 6

PRECIDINCI

12 February 1964

RICA

SAS/R

L.X-786

NP (AMCHUB-1)

Liaison *

SES/MOB L1

REQUASTIO!

STATE

MANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

AltiT

NAVY

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHUNTICATINE OFFICER

COOKCINATING OFFICIE(N

SAS/EDE

n craft

SECRET

Cett

3g0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

erebel iNn: 0860616918

Tirelesamed indian diadole

•PETING

COURT CIT

DAMO

9 FEBRUARY 19÷1

iNFO

IDES 191-8 639.539

DISTO 12 FEDRLARY 1964

- SUBICT

PLANS OF THE JUSTA REVOLUTIUNARY CRISTA QUIRE)

TO LAND EXPEDITIOSS IN CUBA BEFURE 2ND OF MANCH

1964

PLACE A

DATEACQ. 10 FEBRUARY 1964

REF

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO.

AND

APACAISAL AY AVERICAN ENGINEER WHO LIVED IN CUBA AND LEFT THERE IN 1962,

WHO HAS CONTACTS IN JURE.

-mes

1. THE JUNTA REVOLUTIONARY CUBANA (JURE, CUBAS REVOLUTIONARY

JUNTA) IS PREPARING TO LAND ONE OR TWO EXPEDITIONS IN CUBA

BEFORE THE END OF MARCH 1964 AND. JOIN THE MANY FORCES THAT ARE

DISCONTENTED IN THE CUBAN MILITIA. MANUEL RAY, LEADER OF JURS,

IS PLANNING TO LEAD ONE OF THE GROUPS HIMSELF.

2.. RAY THINKS HIS CHANCES OF SUCCESS ARE EXCELLENT AT THIS

TIME. THERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF SABOTAGE GOING ON IN CUBA,

ESPECIALLY IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTPY, BECAUSE CUBANS

RESENT FIDEL CASTRO'S COMPLETE SELL-OUT TO THE RUSSIANS. RAY

BELIEVES THAT IT WILL TAKE TIME, ALTHOUGH HE IS NOT OVER-

OPTIMISTIC. RAY HAS SAID THAT THE CUBANS PUT CASTRO IN AND IT

IS UP TO THEN TO GET HIN OUT. THROUGE ITS VARIOUS AGENCIES,

CONFIDENTIAL

SHAW/M DEA

REPCINCLANT

CONTROLLED DISSEM

FBI

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

109. L1 1795k4

136504-3 000.535

as ill

J'AZ IS GETTING HELP FROM TUS SALE DI BUNDS IN THE UNITED STATES.

IT DAS SAID THAT S98 MILL BUY A RIFLE AOR A CUBAN SOLDIER. (SOURCE

COUSENT: JURE SEINS TO MANT TO GO IT ALONE, WITHOUT ANY OUTSIDE

INTERFERESCE.)

3. RAY IS A VERY CAPABLE MAY. HE HAS EXTENSIVE PLANS FOR

THE CARRYING OUT OF AGRARIAN REFORMS, WHICH WOULD NOT MAKE HIM

POPULAR WITH THE MORE CONSERVATIVE ELEMENTS, BUT HE IS EXTRENELY

ASTI-COMMUNIST IN HIS VIETS.

4. JUAN (GUANCHI) MELENDEZ, AN ENGINEER, WHO WAS RAY'S

MAY IN CUBA AND RAN THE NATIONAL COMXISSION OF AQUEDUCTS AND

SENERS (CONACA), IS ONE OF RAY'S PRINCIPAL LIEUTENANTS.

MELENDEZ PLANS TO GO TO CUBA AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

5. FIELD DISSEM:

CINCLANT, CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE

it tensEs

_ CONFIDENTiAL

ALLEN DISSEY

CONTANATION DE IDES ASDRMATION RIPORT

ANG $ 48

(08 50

---

