# 104-10216-10178

## Page 1

104-10216-10178 .

ORIG :

UNIT

EXT

DATE

купототьяная с коэ

• N.

WH!SA/S0/3S

7147

I JUN 1966

& CLASSIED MESSAGE

LENSECR

•E T

SO PENELL

DO FLE IN CO FILE NO.

12€г

ROUTING

2

70 :

T Jun 61 28

22z

JA-WAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

HeR

20B

CI

FO i DIST, VK

1O

INK

WAVE

IXT

100

SS

PESO

LOG

SI

BF

SEC

file

SB

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CITE DIR

24886

DESENSITIZED TYPIC YOBITE

REF: DIP. 22655

1. FOLLOKING IS TRANSLATION OF SW MESSAGE FROM AMLASR/1. PARIS

WAS REQUESTED TO RETRIEVE TWO PREVIOUS LETTERS AND WARN AND BRIEF

UNSNAFU/9 ACCORDINGLY.

2. "MESSAGE 03. THE THO PREVIOUS SECRET MESSAGES WERE. HAND

CARRIED. THE PERSON WHO CAPRIED THEM DID NOT KNOW WHAT HE WAS

CAFRYING. YOU SHOULD RECOVER THEM, SINCE IT APPEARS THAT MY

FRIEND (UNSNAFU/9) DID NOT KNOW THAT THERE WAS ANYTHING IN THEM.

WEEL A LETTER REACHES THE INDICATED PERSON (UNSNAFU/9) BY ANY MEANS

HAND CARRIED OR AIRMAIL IT WILL ALWAYS CONTAIN A MESSAGE, AS I HAVE

RECEIVED THE ITE'S NECESSARY TO COMMUNICATE WITH YOU. IF YOU MUST

SEND ME A MESSAGE, YOU CAN DO IT THROUGH THE SAME CHANNEL (DAN)

BENE TRIESTILA (ACOSTA) GONZALEZ,

HAVANA). IT APPEARS TO ME TO BE SAFER AND

FASTER THAN VIA MIAMI (ANTRUNK/10 CHANNEL.) •

ADVISE MY FRIELD THEFE (UNSNAFU/9) THAT HE MAY LOSE HIS POSITION

IF HE DOES NOT ACT WITH MORE DISCRETION AND STOP TALKING SO MUCH.

COORDIsATINd OffICERS

DELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

AETHENTICATING

: REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

301-252234

Kart

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG :

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO &

NESTOR SANCHEZ ifES

SA/ WH/SO/NS

O NO INDEX

7147

DO FILE IN CS FILI NO.

I JIN 1964

12-62

ROUTING

4

5

6

W..!

32:

PAGE ' II

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

24888

MAKE HIM UNDERSIAND HOW USEFUL AND VERY IMPORTANT HE IS TO ME.

AS YET, I DO NOT HAVE THE AGREED-UPON IN MY POSSESSION. (TODAVIA

NO TENGO LO ACORDADO EN MI PODER). (UNCLEAR WHETHER CACHE ITSELF

MAY HAVE BEEN RECOVERED BY FISHERMAN AND AMICE/14S UNCLE AND

STILL IN THEIK POSSESSION). ANSWER IMMEDIATELY AND TELI ME

WHETHER YOU HAVE RECOVERED THE PREVIOUS MESSAGES.*

3. PLAN WRITE SW TO AMLASH/1 AS SOON AS ANSWER RECEIVED FROM

PARIS. PLS FORWARD QUESTIONS STATION DESIRES INCLUDED IN MESSAGE.

END OF MESSAGE

#R/SA/EOB

Melanght

ST/SA/MOB/FI

BRUCE C.

CHEEVER

C/WH/SA

RELEASING OFFICER

A.

MALONE

WH/SA/MOB

7.

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

CROUS 1

S

EGRET

Excladed from automatie

comprading and

deciassibcation

REPRODUCTIC BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICEIS PROHIBITED.

„Copy No.

---

