# 104-10113-10174

## Page 1

104-10113-10174

IE.OA!

Chief, Cartact iivisios

Support Brancia

Carlof, Hisal Flala OfIlco

HE KRANDUM OF JISTY TO:

15 June 1961

Evello Dugue

(30 padress trailable)

of the Mom Feld Det te gue a ree at areas

Interrier with Evello Dugue, en lacebry rentatance leader. Dague,

en assistart, and an undergrand warier were brought to the is in

a flabing Inuch. They arrived In sey lest and vers brought to

Hand by the US Barder Pairal. The Intarley was held 1n Border

Patrol @flees. Others present were Walter loch of VHD sod

03

cd. Security.

2. Ion perpose of the intervier ma to secure sora information

Information ms sitted.

Patrol offlotals who released then to secure lodging for the adgit-

group so to s nearby motel rather then & domtom hotel. It was

also spasted that the group not go shopping in leal far new clothes.

tho It was later ascertalied that the group contacted one FAU

Carola, a lorr Cuben Intallipe Service aficer under Mnchado,

sho now resides th Hast. The group apparestly spent the night at

Carctata house. The following norning all wenbers of the grous hail

nor clothing.

5. I returned to Border Patral et 0930 hours on 6 Jua 61. I

unders at the grown were photograved and filled out PRO, statements.

joch and 31. Forett vere present. It was evident that uy servioes

as an Interunter debriefer vere not seeded. I gave soch a copy oi

too notes I bad zade tha previous isy and left.

6. Subject appears to be a poorly educated aidala clasa or

Lower class person. It is 34 gears old, sarong and suscular. le

is about 5° 6" or T and would veigh cout 175-130 polada. Le has

I deep sear ca is chin, end the erds ai his fingers on both anda

turned up sherply st the first joint as li wey bad been braben at

sone time and inad not healed properly.

111-261

1/PV

---

## Page 2

, 1-00000

BLANDENTA

To. I cannot evaluste subjort'= clata to be ivelio Duque.

Ey his ous staterent be lnous there are Cubans In Hand sho can

¡sently hito. It toamiar appears probable that Suoject la

Brello Dugue.

JUSTIN F. CIRICIALE

enbunsater.ns

-2-

---

