# 104-10069-10405

## Page 1

104-10069-10405

ROLL

a Sect. 2.

d forward to

Destroy front co

signiticant action

ing preservation

FROM:

03

RID/

RIDIAN

1295.0700

TO

DC

CA

03

100 м

* SECRET

(WHEN FILED (N).

ROUTING ANO RECORD SWEET LP

INSTRUCTIONs

AUNG

Detach back lap

ot.

unless it recorde

comments requir.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il tile no. and title shown are not-proper,

insert proper tile no. below and forward

document to RID/AN

•PERTE NO

DV- HA

GA-80

IN AN

TO: ALL ADDR

FILL IN SICTION I ON BACK. IF APROPIATE

COMMeNTs

DATE

HOPIALS

RECEIVED

CHA

*%

21/

Eul

ROL

Matt

21110

"Capy detach

MICHOFILA

369

23/1m23 Crus

1..

6to 8

this is the IS copy?

03

I the dscument

AMEDIT and will returns

friday

GaT M 979

---

## Page 2

14-00000

l forward to niv:

Ovetroy troat cover sheel, unlees it recorde

agniticant action taken or commente requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

RID/

03

Insert proper tile

no. below and forward

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDI

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK I ARIORMATI

COMMENT®

RICUAN

EXE. 070

TO

100 M

QA-60

JUBE ALI

DATA

14419+A1 8

1 084a8040

matt

211700

copy detack

MICROFLM

4969

CA

03

seele lapla

10

23/u23 Curs

6to 8

this is the CS copy 03

of the dscument

fant us — tits over a

sear and it stain ly

fusday.

8B.

RID/П1

TRACH

Ат носитель

ADITRACT

INDEM

PILE PrILE

FILE NUMSTA PRIMARY CODES

502-0. 36

I JANGO

BOCUMINY NOMITI

MAMA 36169

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH

PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET

XXX

MARTED OR MOEXIE

TO

Ch10f. WI D1y18100.

MIT.

Chief. VNO

MO INDEXHIG REQUIRED

OMLY QUALIFIED DESH

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Ch10f 01 StatioR, Mexico CItyLA

MICROFILA

KITTER 8/"Mexican Committee of Solidarity with Vletnam"

ACTION REDUMATO - REFERENCES

References:

HMMW-16842, 10 December 1968

B. HMA-35827, 15 November 1968

Action Required: Index namon of all organizations und individuals

in attached reporta

1. Attached are copion of a series of raw reporte from barer

concerning the l"Merican Committee of Solidarity with Vietnam'(Conite

Mexicano De Solidaridad Con Vietnam) •

It ia partially remponaive to

the requento contained in Reference A; but an stated by Headquarters,

some of the information, particularly that dealing with the inter-

national ampecta of the

"Conite" and the "nocioty of lournaliato." 1u

somewhat senuitive and, therefore, will take time for LIrTER-8 to

•licit from Luia SUAREZ Lopez.

In direct anor to Roference A, Paragraph 1, the "bin'

• to HUNY VAN BA. Concerning Paragraph 1.

"David" 1s the

Station'e operational paeudony for LIfTEr-s!!

While LIFTER-S 1.

not a member of the Vietnamese Solidarity Committee,

the attached report, he has numerous contacts who are members.

105/Willard C. CURTI8

Attachments: 0

LITER, 8 Reporte b/r

2.

Propaganda flywheet h/w

MICROFILMER

• MICRO, BER.

Digtribution:

h/w

2 - C/VNO "/att h/w

Wu it. 2:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

D•50 1526 16

IS COPY.

really

F

=11

OISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 36168

CLASEFICAMION

SECRET

DATE

7

January

• 1969

MOS PIE NAMBER

50-1 36

QUATIONS

---

