# 104-10225-10057

## Page 1

104-10225-10057

€A 16:

D.

WhiT:

C/W1/7/DR

1537

11 Aug 66

O PILE HIO

DIADEA

O FILE IN ES PILE NO.

MESSACE FOR!

TOTAL COPIES 29

SECRET

201-751754

SCUTING

ODESTROY @ RITURNTO BRANCH

FRON: DIRECTOR

comes 121152

TCCAFETENTIONT

SECRET

FERID COPY

INTO: VA

1C 6321

INFO:

Fillne meanie nase

CITE DIRECTOR

27237

JMWAVE

DYVOUR PBRUMEN AMMUG

REF:

1555 (IN 74092)*

OVER

1. HEADQUARTERS TOT ENDORSES

VIEWS, DISPATCHES

CITED PARA & REF HAVE BEEN CAREFULLY STUDIED HERE AND FOUND MOST

HELPFUL, WE WILL BE COMMENTING IN SOME DETAIL ON SAME BY DISPATCH,

2. AGREE THAT CURRENT PERIOD OF DISORGANIZATION AMONG LEFTIST

PARTIES MAKES THIS IDEAL PERIOD FOR EXPLOITATION, AND HEADQUARTERS

URGES

TO MOVE AS RAPIDLY AND FORCEFULLY AS POSSIBLE DURING

THE COMING MONTHS TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF EVERY POSSIBLE OPENING,

3. SUBJECT OF REF CLEARLY FITS INTO THIS CONTEXT, AND WE-

CONCUR IN PROPOSAL PARA 4 REF. DIR 26638 WAS INTENDED TO OBTAIN

SUMMARY OF

PLANNING AND KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT STATUS, WHICH

(CONTINUED)

MELGASINO OFFIGEA

COOROIMATINE OFFICERS

GAOUPI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO.

AUTACHTICARNE

casy no.

---

## Page 2

MESSAGE FORN

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

CAIG:

DATE

DISCIM DY

D FILE HIO

O NO IMORN

O FILE IN CO FILE NO.

- PER .

2

3

O DEGTAOY O RETURN TO - BRANÇN

ROM. OLLICTOR

COMP,

[I RIO COPY

• TCLAUSTEICATIONT

SECRET

PAGE II

TUATE AND TINE PILGOT

CINATIONE WOWE

CITE DIRECTOR

2737

REF PARA 3 PROVIDED, THERE IS CERTAINLY NO QUESTION ABOUT

DESIRABILITY OF APPROACHING SUBJECT. WE TEND TO AGREE WITH

YOUR PARA 5 REF ESTIMATE THAT SUBJECT LIKELY HAS UNDERCOVER

ROLE.

END OF MESSAGE

749651

AELEASINO OFFICEA

AMMUG-1

pitch

C/WH/C/CICS TYbAL

(TELECORD)

COORSINATINE SPICERS

SECRET

REPRODUET

ACT WA

fast adad lugs arrest

demade ani

doslasatirations

PRONIBITED.

....DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

UTRENTICATIN

---

