# 104-10179-10203a

## Page 1

104-10179-10203

1:

+ :

• Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

RETURN TO CIA

Records Collection Act of 1992

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

HA HASNO OBJECTION TO

BEeLA

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

NEHIS DOCLIFOLING

34

тог

DIRECTOR

FROM: CARACAS

IPS

ACTION:

1bi.

6

59

PERS

LOG

-SE

CA

SI

INFO:

NS

00/1 (2.0. )

AD/RR (E.0.)

TOCS - 31574,865

MAR 6 2817Z 64 IN 34189

SECRET 801515I

DIR INFO WAVE CITE CARA 8529 (CLAERBUCK ACTING)

INTEL

SUPDATA SOURCE CIRAKE-3. BECAUSE OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES REPORTED IN

HYCA-196626 CONTROLS HAVE BEEN AFFIXED, RI INDEX 75,9-8/8.

FILED 8615157

23

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. HVC-2885.

VENEZUELA CUBA

SUBU ACTIVITIES OF MANUEL RAY REVERO, HEAD OF THE CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA IN VENEZUELA.

DOI 18 TO LATE FEERUARY 64 PADA VENEZUELA CARACAS 3 MARCH 64.

SOURCE FOREIGN JOURNALIST IN VENEZUELA WHO HAS EXTENSIVE CONTACTS

IN THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY AND WHO HAS BEEN A RELIABLE REPORTER

I COMMENT:

Put ill

WH REG

MH/PACI

ELEASING IWS

Charlotte /

CHARLES

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

MIRCH 1964

• 23032

TDES

PRECEDENCE

* ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON: MUC 2595

сталкс

LIAISON: •

-D?

J/BR

---

## Page 2

104-10179-10203

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREE

ROUTING

6

TO:

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

PAGE 2

SAId CARA 85-9

TDO'S

ON EXILE ACTIVITIES IN THE PAST. IT IS KNONA, MENEVER, THAT SOURCE

AND RAY HAVE WIDELY DIVERGENT POLITICAL VIRUS. SOURCE RECEIVED THE

INFORMATION AS FOLLEWS: PARAGRAPH I FROM EMILIO FERVANDEZ,

A CUBAN INSURANCE EXECUTIVE IN. CARACAS, FROM GU'ENTALA.

PARAGRAPH 2 FROM EMILIO FERNANDEZ FROM RENE CASTELLAVOS, A CUBAN INSURANC

SALESMAN AND MENSER OF THE CLUB PATRIOTICO DESE MARTI, FROM MARTINEZ.

PARAGRAPH 3 FROM MIGUEL ZALDIVAR, CUBAN LAWYER AND MAR (REVOLUTIONARY

RECUPERATION MOVEMENT) COORDINATOP. IN VENEZUELA, FÄCH HIS WIFE, FROM

THE WIFE OF JOSE VAZQUEZ BLANCO.

I COMMENT:

TDCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEASING IWO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

LIMON: I

SECREI

---

