# 104-10131-10026

## Page 1

104-10131-10026.

• •

18 April 1973

MEDRANDUE FOR: Acting Chief, Suppori Evaluation Section

SUB-TECT

[#641 108]23

Operations/Information Services Division. He has neither been

polygraphed nor entered on duty. Invitee clearance vas denied on

Field

investigation has now been completed and disclosed no

unfavorable inforration.

A waiver of HU 10-3

will be required in Subject's case in view of the lexican citizen-

hip and residence of a brother-in-law.

Subject is a 2;-year-old, married, male, who was born in

nio ol a native born nother and aggussian-born father

Subject's

HOSt 104837 entered this countr

Irom Turkey in 1923 and became a naturalized United States citizen

in 1930.

A review of his security file reveals that he entered on

auty with the Agency as a Gs-Of, Intelligence Analyst in February 1950;

Nos converted to Stafi Agency in 1963inana retired in Mexico in

November 1970. Subject's mother, a

JOSH 131751/101

vas a Stail employee, GS-Oo, fron April 1957 to September 1903, ana

was approved for Contract Type Buse in July 1904. His sister,

reside in Mexico where his father had been assigned for & number oi

years prior to his retirement.

3. Subject was graduated from college in lay 19T-, receiving a

Bal, degree with a major in Spanish.

Daveloyed current employment sa

a subtitute teacher vith the Mentow, PA, school district vas co

firmed and satisfactory as vere all listed prios employments.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5lgA

---

## Page 2

siren references and four developed indomania furnished devpraula

testimony regarding Subject's character, habits, roral conduct, and

loyalty and recormended him for a position of trunt with the Federal

Corernment. Neighborhoods were verified and favorable and local

police and credit checks were negative or non-derogaior.

RI, K and Office of Security Indices checks were no record

or non-derogatory. National Agency Checks were negative wiün tre

sception 0b State Passport which disclosed that Subject i23 2S5U3

assport H2 833647/ on 12 June 1958 in liezico, purpose and place o;

travel not stated of Subject's permanent residence at that time was

issued to Subject in June 1963 at Washingion, D.C:

Subject appears to meet security criteria for Contract Iye a

utilization by the Agency. His investigation was entirely {avo~≥ole

It is noi felt that the

Vexican citizenship of his brother-in-law poses a security risk, anã,

accordingly, it is recommended that:

a. Exception to HR 10-3 be granted;

b.

Subject be security approved for Contract Type

A employment by the Agency, subjeci to polygraph;

C.

During polygrapn IPD

-2-

REPRET

3/g0

---

## Page 3

11.00000 .

GES: 8j%

d.

Il Subjeci is subsecuently sopsored for entrance

on duty, he be affamed a persoral interview ans

aware oi the agiroy policies regerding.

contact vish toreiga razionals.

03

Support Praluction Section

-3-

---

