# 104-10181-10112

## Page 1

104-10181-10112

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

SECRET

144.8.

Il September 1957

Thru :

Depusy Clich, SiRS

Chick, FIOB

Mr. D. Stevens

The OSWALD Case

SHA it, Clay L. 1102897-A

peripheral.

According to a Washineton Star Clipping dated 2 Narch 1967

Clay L. SHAW, who was arrcoted, indicicd and in awaitian trial a

connection with the charge that he corspired with Lee Harvey OS:'ALD

and David i. FE.?PI[ to assassinate President KENNEDY, was described

by one Jesse CCRE as a political liberal who was "very samiring" of

President KENNEDY. According to CORD, SiLl i "salied of voting for

KENNEDY in 1960' and wore a KENNEDX {o. President buston. Jesse

CORE worked wich SHAW in 1963 at the Iniernational Trade Mart in

New Orleans.

Security indices reflect that one Jesse i. CORE, Chicf Consil

with USIS in the American Embassy la Nadras, India, in 1950, was a

friend ofl

F40S:2 (c), a former CLA covert

agent who was separated from the Agency in October 1952, following a

scrious security breach which involved a 1írs. Lillian BAXTER of

Calcutta, India who also was known to CO.E. Mrs. BAXTER who was

believed to be an American with Indian citizeaship, had formerly been

married to an Anglo-Indian plante. in India and vas said to have become

3 prostitute and in 1951 to have been kept by a wealthy Marwaril", she

was believed to be controlled by Indian Intclligence and it was thought

Diat she might be an agent for any of severai governmeuts including

England and Russia. She was an associate cfl

and was suspecied of stcaling security dccumenta from him.

There is lacufficient information rcga-din: Jesae CORE, Clay

SHA i's associate, to positively identily him as L

Driend,

Jesse R. CORE, but it seems quite probable that they are the same.

Tis from New Orleans and it would appear that his friend CORE

is also, in as much as he seems la all probability to be the husband of

a "M'ra. Jesa CORD', nce: Lucy Muggles, wilo 23 of 1956 was said lo be

married to a man in the State Departmost and io be somewiere overseas,

and as of 1957 was said to reside in New Oricaas, Louisiarce. This

date.

• .:

- 261-813443

---

## Page 2

SECHET

MEs. Jeese CORE was one of a suspect political group, Dallas County

Voluricers for RAINEY, Which was of latcres: to the Securly Office

in 1956-1757 because of the fact that current ClA eployee, Michael

Charles PEARSON, 162901, and his Ladend, John Max NOSEVElTID.

821034, 'a former OSS man, " lad beca members. The organizatio.

which numbered about 25 persona moat of whom were said to hava Suea

formor studenis of the University of Texss from which Homer I. MiNaY.

= former liberal' presiders, had been diccharged, was of a libarall

radical persuasion. One member of the srosy (in which ita. Jesse CORE.

then Lucy RUGGLES, the daughter of William RUGGLIS, an citorial

writer on the Dallan Morrin, Nows, was particularly activo) la said

to have subsequently been aricated by the I2I for Communist sclividen

and several othera have been active in Communist organizations.

M. Do Stovene

MDS:mnl

207-81349-3

---

