# 104-10106-10019

## Page 1

104-10106-10019

UNCLASSIFIED

SUB'ECT: : (Optional)

FROM Maurice A

Ö/SA/D0/0

2D0109

«TO: (Officer designation. room number;

and

building)

SA

DO%

.0

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Letelier Assassination

Rosselli' Traces

Sovern:

EXTENSION

NO.

11 542

DATE: 10 June 1977

/ DATE.

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECLIVED.":

FORWARDED

COMMENTS: (Number.each.comment: to. show.from whom

to whom.

E Drow a line across column after: each comment.)

0.20

3: Mr J

Anthony Lapham

OGG

7D013Hos

610-22 /10 00)

Marions to Me lefer

5.

6.

Mr?

DDO

7E26 Has

William W.

*Wells

or petson

LoTh

at 290 t

Detective latre/alch

Colsu Aiquo

gal

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

00677-3727

6-10-77

10 June 1977

• MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. William W. Wells

Deputy Director for Operations

VIA

• :

Mr. Anthony A. Lapham

General Counsel

FROM

SUBJECT

Maurice A. Sovern

Office of the Special Assistant to the

DDO for External Oversight

: Letelier Assassination - Rosselli Traces

1. In August of 1976, the Senate Select Committee

arranged a joint meeting between representatives of the

Committee staff, the FBI

and CIA and representatives of

the Dade County, Florida Police Department who were then

investigating the murder of Mr. John Rosselli.

It will

be recalled that shortly before Rosselli met his sudden

demise, he testified before the SSCI who were looking into

the Letelier assassination.

2.. At the

meeting, the Dade County detectives posed

a series

of questions which they believed would assist them

in their investigation of Rosselli's murder.

3.

Within the limitations of the protection of

sources and methods, we prepared replies to some of their

queries, but asked the Attorney General in October 1976

for guidance on the propriety of our assisting the local

law enforcement officials in light of the constraints in

E.0. 11905.

We suggested to the Attorney General that we

elieved the FBI was the appropriate vehicle for furthei

lealing with the Dade County authorities and forwarde

our answers to the DoJ for further dissemination via that

channel.

4.

We recently received a reply from the Attorney

General that we can make this material available to the

Dade County police, if we choose.

While the DOJ response

to our letter was in process, a new Director was appointed,

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

E2 IMPDET CL BY 018630

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

who in the course of his confirmation hearings was asked by

John Marks (of Marchetti fame) whether the new DCI would

continue to permit CIA obstruct Justice in the Letelier

investigation by refusing to make this material available

to the Dade County investigators.

5. LA Division has again prepared the same answers to

the original questions, now for direct transmittal to the

Dade County authorities.

However, the circumstances of the

investigation are substantially changed.

At our request,

an OGC

attorney telephoned one of the investigators who

told him that they were pursuaded that it was a gang-style

slaying for reasons unconnected to the Letelier assassination

or the Rosselli testimony before the SSCI. The

also gave the impression that they really weren't looking

hat they really

investigator

for the material but that it would be nice to have to complete

their files on the case.

The investigator was more interested

on what material CIA had on organized crime.

6.

to Dade County authorities is internal. The Director indi-

The pressure, to make di

to make our trace material available

cated to the General Counsel in response to the latter's

on the Marks question that we should give this

to the Dade County police. It is clear that when

the Director gave his order, he was assuming that the

material was important to the investigation and that it

was needed, neither of which presently is the case.

7. We can be done with this matter by your concurring

in the attached memorandum; however, we are taking the

unusual step.of routing it through

the General Counsel

before it reaches you to ask for their guidance on whether

release is still necessary.

8. We would also like to bring to the General Counsel's

notice a tactical suggestion from LA Division who notes

Office of Security Miami office's long relationship with the

Dade County police authorities and

I. whether further negotia-

tion and

any future transmittal of material should

be

accomplished through them.

Maurice A. Sovern

0/SA/DO/0:MASovern: kaw

Distribution

Original & 1

- DDO

2 - OGC

2 = SA/DO/0

(1542)

SECRET

---

