# 104-10234-10010

## Page 1

104-10234-10010

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

I-HEE TO FILE NO.

FILE DID REY. TO BRANCH DO

CLASSIFIED KESSAGE D

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCT ION PROMIBITED

$

ACT

INFO

ADVANCE COPY

L RID COPY

SLATTED

ECRET 111451Z

DIR CITE

7456

KEYWAY PBRUEN

REF: DIR 86697

1 | MARGS # 73 160

10 QUANTÜH/3B BROUGHT UP AMLASH AFFAIR AT LUNCH WITH OLIEN

1B MAR. HANDED OLIEN COPY OF FULL COMMUNIQUE WHICH HE RECD

BY POÜCH FROM HABANA. REMARKED WHOLE THING SMELLS FISHY TO

HIM AND KE SUSPECIS IT MAY BE CAREFULLY WORKED OUT PROPAGANDA

SPECTACULAR ON PART CASTRO GOVI. SAID HE THINKS ROBRENO HAS

PROSABLY BEEN WORKING FOR CASTRO ALL ALONG. ALSO CONSIDERS

HIGHLY SUSPICIOUS CUBELA'S REQUESI TO BE PUT UP TO THE PAREDON

AND CASTRO'S KAGNANIMITY IN COMMUTING DEATH SENTENCES.

2o AS FAR AS ALLEGATIONS AGAINST KUBARK AND OLIEN CONCERNED

@ 30 COMPLETELY UNCONCERNED. WHEN OLIEN COMMENTED ANY INSINUATION

EITHER HE OR KUBARK INVOLVED IN ASSASSINATION CONSPIRACY COMPL

LETELY FALSE QUEAGLE SAID HE SURE OF THAT BUT ADDED HE LIKEVISE:

CONVINCED THERE ARE PEOPLE CLOSE IO CASTRO WHO WOULD LOVE TO

KILL HIM.

:.::

3. & 3B THEN SAID ONLY PART OF COMMUNIQUE WHICH INTERESIS

JIM IS THE REFERENCE TO SABOTAGE OF SH

CECREI

• IN SPAIN. IHIS CONTAINED

AMLASH - 1

5/e

L

---

## Page 2

pes 107810

IN TWO PARAGRAPHS WRICH ALLEGS EAR EUCO LEON BROUGHT A QUANITY

OF DYNAMITE FROM THE UNITED STATES WHICH WAS TO BE USED

TO SABOTAGE SHIPS BEING BUILT IN SPANISH SHIPYARDS FOR CUBA,

AMONG THEM THE "EL JIGUE." THAI GALLARETA DELIVERED THIS DYNAMITE

TO "EL MAGO" ROERENO.

4. OLIEN ASKED IF THERE WAS ANY INDICATION THAT DYNAMITE

HAD BEEN USED

IN ANY OF ACCIDENTS SUFFERED BY CUBAN SHIPS.

0/30 SAID NO,, BUT HE THOUGH THE WORD WAS BEING USED IN A VERY

GENERAL SENSE AND THAT TERM COULD INCLUDE ANY TYPE OF INCENDIARY.

HE SAID THERE EVIDENCE THAT POWERFUL INCENDIARY HAD BEEN USED

IN SABOTAGE/S FISHING VESSEL PARGO.

..S• OLIEN THEN POINTED OUT THAI THE COMMUNIQUE STATES

THAT THE DYNAMITE WAS DELIVERED IO ROBRENO. OLIEN SAID ME

PRESUMED SPANISH AUIKORITIES WOULD CALL ORBRENO IN AND ASK

KIM WHAT HE DID WITH THE DYNAMITE. @ 3A SAID THIS WAS UP TO

QUOTA/ 48, AND SAID HE HAD GOITEN IHE DISTINCI IMPRESSION FROM

QUOTA/48 THAT HE WASN'T TOO INTERESTED IN FOLLOWING UP THESE

LEADS. QUOTA/ 48 HAD TOLD HIM HE THOUGH ROBRENO MIGHT HAVE

BEEN USED AS AN AGENT OF ONE OF THE SECIION'S OF HIS ORGANIZATION.

•"."

ALSO QUEAGLE SAID-QUOTA/ 48 WASN'T KEEN ON

SECRETDIGGING UP INFORMATION

**: GUERORE SATE

1.10?

R

-**

---

## Page 3

"HICH MIGHT ENGARRASS KUBAR SECREF JAID THAT IF EITHER & 38

7093 1073160

OR QUOTA 48 HARBORS ANY SUSPICION KUBARX INVOLVED IN SABOTAGE

OF SHIPS, HE HOPES QUOTA WILL MAKE A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION

AND ESTABLISH ONCE AND FOR ALL THE TRUTH OF THE MAITER. QUANTUM/38

SAID HE PERSONALLY IS CONVINCED KUBARK NOT INVOLVED BUT HE IS

NOT TELLING QUOTA/48 WHAI HE SHOULD OR SHOULD NOT DO. ‹IT

WAS LEARNED FROM QUSPORI/1 THAI QUOTA CALLED ROBRENO IN ON

NIGHT OF 10 MAR FOR QUESTIONING. HE WAS PERMITTED RETÜRN HOME

BUT TOLD HE MUSI REPORT AGAIN NEXT DAY>.

6. OLIEN IHEN TOLD QUANTUM/30 OF INTERVIEW BETWEEN DCM AND

OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN OFFICE. WHEN OLIEN SAID HE THOUGH SAGAZ

REFERENCE TO "FREQUENT VISIIS OF OLIEN TO BILBAO WHERE SABOTAGE

OF CUBAN SHIPS HAS JAKEN PLACE WAS A LOW BLOW, QUANTÜM/38 SAID

HE SURE SAGAZ WASH ONLY FISHING" AND MERELY INTERESTED IN .

HOW DCH WOULD REACT TO STATEMENT. OLIEN INFORMED QUANTUM/30

THAT FACT IS ME HASN'T BEEN IN BILBAO IN OVER IWO YEARS.

QUANTUM/30'S REACIION TO FORNOFF APPORACH WAS ONE OF AMUSEMENT.

7. OLIEN DOES NOT FEEL PUBLICITY HARMFUL TO AGENT OPERATIONS

UP TO NOW. STRONG POSSIBILITY QUSPORI/I WILL BE CALLED IN TO

EXPLAIN HIS ALLEGED IVOLVEMENT. IF SO HE WILL DENY SPECIFIC SECRET

1

4444358843975 19914-98499 1-

- 245s

---

## Page 4

SECRET

The efe

CHARGE HE PROVIDED CUBELA A SUM OF MONEY BÜT WILL ADMIT

1N79160

CAS

UNDOUBIEDLY KNOWS> THAT HE HAS HAD "CASUAL

CONTACT" WIIH KUBARK OFFICERS INVOLVED IN CUBAN MATTERS.

8. UNFORTUNATE ASPECT OF ARBIR AS FAR AS KUBARK

RELATIONS CONCERNED IS REFERENCE IO SABOTAGE OF CUBAN SHIPS

IR SPANISH PORIS. IN SPITE OLIEN'S BEST EFFORT HE FEELS THERE

SNEAKING SUSPICION ON PART OUR

FRIENDS THAT WE KNOW

MORE ABOUT THESE ALLEGED SABOTAGE INCIDENIS THAN WE PREPARED

TO TELL. COUPLED WITH THIS, AND TO AN EXTENT COUNTERBALANCING

IT, IS PERRAPRS AN ADMIRATION FOR THE SUCCESS WHICH THEY FEEL

KUBARK HAS HAD IN MASSIVE PENETRATION OF THE CUBAN COMPLEX,

INVOLVING EVEN PEOPLE CLOSE TO CASTRO HIMSELF•

SECREI

CFN: 7456 86697 QUANTUM/30 AMLASH OLIEN 10 HABANA CASTRO

ROBRENO CURELA'S OLIEN Q30 @ 30 SPAIN CUCO LEON UNITED STATES

CUSA "EL JIGUE" GALLAREIA "EL MAGO" Q30 SAID NO PARGO

ROBRENO Q38 QUOTA 48 48 48 QUEAGLE 48 KUBARK OLIEN & 30 48

30 HOT INVOLVED

NOT TELLING 48 NOT DO QUSPORT/S 10 38 DCM

SAGAZ BILBAO 30 SAGAZ DOM OLIEN 38 BILBAO 30°S NOT FEEL

CUSPORI/1 CÜbELA CASTRO

SECRET

•"'"

olas fue art fue

sust

---

