# 104-10186-10166

## Page 1

104-10186-10166

INFORMATION REPORTS INFORMATIONAREPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

* 08C

sere

TaJ and THe UDo tansmIniOn or roomlalan de taà in any manate to a unauthoriano person a precisited by law

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT "Georgina" (on alias)

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/-01242-65

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

18 March 1965

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(Page 3) 8 July 1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DATE OF 196A

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

Washington

D. C.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Georgina" is the secretary to Carlos Sixto CHAIN Solar

Manuel PINEIRO'S

deputy in the Direccion General de Intellgenci

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

Headquarters Comment

The records on theorgency reveal no additional identeflable

4

5

3

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

(Nore: Field distriburion Indicated by *#".)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NAVY

1 Al

- INSA

CINCSO # I&N'S

OCR

I FBI 2

INFORMATION

RERORI

• WH. CaCt

1. WE/5/R

CILIA

AH: CiNO

CILR&A

1UJE

BULE

: L/ HASHI

AH CIRRIOSE

RUD/AN

INFORMATION REPORT

LX ^311

TO PROJECT (ANMUG/ 1)

CSCI-316/01242-65

COOROINATINO

TOTALS NH/CS. S.(1), WE 1 (1), CIE, RID I

TAISON #

BS: LD:suk

VIBR

---

