# 104-10226-10195

## Page 1

104-10226-10195

- WHEA

SECRET

Chief of Station,

Deputy Chief, Wl/S,

Chief, Wil Divialon

Chief of Station, JAVE

DYVOUR/ PBRUMEN/ Operational

G AMSCROLL Ma11ing Through Latin American Countries

ACTION REQUIRED: FI

REFERENCE

HASA - 6706, 16 October 1964

I. The nuthor of the letter reported in reference In AMBLEAR-)

ho, ln his role as Foreign Affaire Secretary in ANSCROLl, was attempting

to expand the indirect mailing capacity of AMSCROLL propaganda: to Cuba.

Station JIWAVE has encouraged AUSCROLL to contact relntives and friende

In the various Latin American countries for assistance in the mailing

program so that the postmrke will be diversified in the face of

reported Cuban screening and censorship of lotters frow the JAVE area.

The

attempt to enlist assistance in this offort la undertaken

Independently by AMSCROLL; that 1e to say Station JHAVE does not rum

checks on individunls contacted untll and unless an agreement 18

renched between then and ANSCROLL. Since it would be difficult for

Station JHAVE to bave AHSCROLL back off without creating possible

security problems,

we would suggest that you direct the recipient of

the letter mentioned in reference to decline on sone approprinto pretent.

2.

Your offer to arrange such assistance. through one of the civic

action groups to which you have access la mch ipprecinted, but at thie

polit ve would like to see whether AUSCROLL's unilateral efforts are

mullicient.

not, ve might ask later 1f these facilitles are at1ll

avallable.

In answer to your request for information on Cuban exile groupe

we are forwarding herewith the latest issue of the Counterrevolutlonary

Handbook, and a copy of UFGA • 17592 wbich transmitted 1t to Headquarters

with an explanation of the method by which it will be updated from time

Station Ban: Joge has been added to the list of addressees

which will receive amendments as they are produced.

tillin

Andrew

• K.

REUTEMAN

Attachment:

Handbook & UFGA-17592, h/w

Diatribution

# 40S.

att.,

2 - DC/WIVSA W/O

att

h/w

2 - C/PHD "/o att.

Chat: 1

Exclude: ina saiaral:

16 Nov 64

17 164

CUT PoiL UPGA - 18641

19-120-26/3

14-126-26

---

