# 104-10418-10357

## Page 1

104-10418-10357

TO

*DER W

I CHECK-CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTT

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL' INTELLIGENCE AGENCY*

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Chief/SR

Em. 584803

SECRETA

INITIALS

2

4

41

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

His rate

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks: Attached le a chronological review of

the life of lee Harvey OstAnD prepared by

this office. Additional Infornation 1s being",

added to the biography as facts become avallable

tous, and a final copy will be forwarded toi

you when it has been completed.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER:

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

UNCLASSIFIED :

FORM NO.

2-61

237

Use previous editions

• DATE

CONFIDENTIAL:

27 Dee 63

SECRET

(40)

*. U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 0-587282

---

## Page 2

13-00000

2A

1961

Harchipr11

1962

June

196)

Spring

196}мay

1963

20 May

2le October 1963

November 1963

FBI

viet or

Arage 9

200

time

1951

Sometime Am Jund, 1962, OSHALD vatte

the Fort Warth Library shero a Insalar

Janguage clios lo condueted so a alvle

projecte (SWALD sought the name of

persons he might one no ruferareas in

taylog to find a 10o 1s a translator.

* Tort torch engineer who tensbes the

class safd that OSKALD spoke lesten

Muently but not pramntleally.

OSWALD begun tiring typing lensons at

the Dulles Evening Sebool.

FBI Intervlot of

Marina OSHALL

I Dee 15763

Sonatime in the enly part of Har, 1963,

New Toxit Times

I Lecember 1963

OSWALD startod work as an olter and

maintanance man in & Nou Orleans

coffee unrehouse en 10 Hay but wis dismiased

on 19 July for Incompetencde

Hen Tort Fines

I Jeruber 1963

OSWALD attended the UN Day rally on 25

Ostober 196J at which U. &. Ambasador

to the United Nations, Adle! STEVEISON,

spoke:

Lashlanton Post

9. Doe enber

196)

At the tine of the assassination of

Preeident Kennedy, OSHALD lnd been

residing at 1026 N. Beckley Street, Dallas,

Texas, under the name of 0. He bRE,

for a perlod of about five rooke.

FBI Intervies of

23 November 1963

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DATE

1963

Atthe tino of his arrent OSWALD Wi

carrylay a let conteining a

Selective Sewulce card in the name

"Alet wann HIDElk," which bore

(Swalla phetograph

BBI Interview

0 05/40

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Lee surVay OSWALD

Biography

Appeadis A

Dopt

---

## Page 5

13-00000

29LT

1948

2 93

15 L00

6 Inmary 1959

Decembes

eras to e

at 195k

OwneD attended the lay Be May30

nather moved tren lew Orleans, Lonelma,

to Port Worth.

OSWATD entered the Fertillerth Sehool Byaten

on 29 Januapy 19h7

In 191iß, arter bor divoros from lidida A.

oshDin nother hunght a tina

Schoole

Prim 15 December 1953 to 6 January 1951

Els Irothars, Ime., an agency upectalliins

In providing adult male computenship for

fatherles bayn 10 to 16 yours old, tried

to alet CHA:D, The wout mo torinted

when Suardie mother cuturned to hew Orleans,

Loutwann with her children, OStArDio last

day of attendance at schoal in lew Tort

Olty me gluen an I2 Jannury 1954.

Around Docu

ber 1953 (ale), OSHAD

entered Borrogard Juiler High Behool

ns how Ol Street, New Orlene,

Lausan, as an eighth grude trannfer

molent from Poble Sch0. 4: 10 191

Frei Harch 1953 to Jarary 1951 John

Caro me SALDs probation offler®

Schoal 117, for I7 days brteen

Ostober 1952 and Jamary 1953. Mine

found thn CD mated Bellin

911 day Jemy shito his mother most

Judgo Fely of The Dran Ollunt

Court, he mis sunt to louth House fer

Boys for oberation.

Dre Renatur

963

December 19

---

## Page 6

13-00000

DATE

Aaron 1953 to

Jamary 195k conte

April 1959

19511

1 July 1950

WENT

(FARTUGA; leadipaychiatrist-at-the

Institution exarined OSWALD and found' fini

idangereus."

OSkALi made three consecutive

lippearances at the Children'e Court bafore

Judges Patrick J. Forarty, s. Walter HoClancy,

and Dadley F, Sicher, all of wbom recormended

psychiatric treatment.

In November 1953

OSWALD was referred to the court's paychiatrio

clinie.

When Carro wrote to OSWALD's motherh

InJanary 195k asking her to bring OSWALD!"

to the clinio the letter, wag returned. wlth.

the 'notation,

"Moved!"

In April 1953 OSILD mus comitted ty

Children's Court: to Touth House for

the Bore.

Presumabit, sometine alter 12 January 795%

OswAld's nother returned to lew Orleans,

lontatana with her children: SWALDis

Inst day of attendance at shoel sas given

by the New York Bourd of Bandation an

12 January 195k0

Mew York Times

" December: 193

On 1 JUly 1956 OSHALD's mother rented an

093.82182

apartnent upatatre as 4936 Collington Street, 3 Juy 1563

1959

High Schools While resideing et this address

OSWALD went out very little, preferring te

stay at home and road. free ands B, TAILOR,

we rented the apartment to OSkALD's mother,

tated that OWLD rend very "deep" books,

sone of which he revelved through the mil

For several monthe before his diaghargo from

the Marine Corps, OSWALD studied Fussten and

read Russian newspapers. According to OSWALD's

Marine Corpe commanding offloer, OSWALD sae

amart enough to get & O.C.T. (General

Classification Test) of 110, the name grade

-2-

1963

---

## Page 7

13-00000

DATE

1959 cent

1939

1962

3 June 1968

7 Juno 1962

BiAT

RETRAC

requtred for i commianion la required for

Mur Ton: 2

radhe torte

§ December

dincharge fron the Marine Corps In Septenber

1959 on the cronde of his motherla finotal

hardship, other min to the soundron offered

to "chip in and help him, OSMALD tamed down

thome offer, Where o month later, OSHALD

apposed in Mosco, 422 secret radio frequencies,

cal 6luns, and attent bon codes vero

compromised. OSHALD lonew the Location of every

unit en the West Conut, and the redur capabllity

of every lastallatter.

Severel thousand me hous

changing everythin and vertlying the destructien

of the ondes.

On 20 and 1I October 1959 OSHALD stayed

at the teral Hotel In Heloinkl, Finland

and then moved to the Klaus Turkd Hotel

where he stayed untll 15 October apparently

melting for a vise to be lames to him b

the Soviet Conminto In Helsink On 15

detober he traveled to the lash ly train

eroseing the border at Valnikitle.

On 13 Hay 1962 Moscow Iscued OSWALD's wife

« Datoh transit vies.

Records of the office of the German Federal

Repabllo In Cologne, Germany how that

Marina MUelayewn Pusshova OSkALD crossed west

Germany fron Beat Germary to Holland by trada

on 1 June 1962.

She had a West Sern viaa

604,62 lonued at the West Germn Ambasay In

Fer finnl destination us even as

the United States.

On 7 June 1968, Marina OSWALD advised the

to ret

Iamued I damany 1962 by MID (Ministay of

Internal arraire) of the ussi, an the city

of Hosoow She gave as her last place of

residende in the USS, CIty of Minak,

Kommunaticheskaya, House i4, Apta 25.

-3=

12209

November 190-

DIR: 85827

29 Nevember 1963

AR doToe

Soviet Consular Ille

---

## Page 8

13-00000

DATE

196₴

9 July 1962

- Jaly 1962

15 Auguet 1962

11611

iT the ander of 1962 Met

DeHOBRENSCHILDI of Fort Horte, texas were

Introduced to OSwALD end his wire through

friende sho wore Interested in helpine the:

The friends were,

Ceorge BOURG;

an accountant in Dallas, Has Chary r

inttörner,

who had previously been a security

officer with the Convair plant, and a petroloun

engineer named Peter OREORy, who reportody

Idiscovered?, Marina OSHALD

State ye

On 9 July 1962 a letter un sent tron the

Berlet. Conmlar

Convala, Divlaion of the Soviet Inboey ta:

Wanhington, de Ory to Hartan OStAL requenting

har relidendo permit fer regiotrition. She

was also saked to coplete card 118.

An undated letter from OSWALD to the Bordet Seriot Connilar Ille

Embracy me written from OSWLD's "now

address" 2703 Mercedes Street, Port Harth,

Tenass OSILD atated that his nife'e

passport l KU 37790, had been forwarded

to tho Soviet Ambussy on 30 July, OSKALD

anked to be told how he could eubscribe to

"Prava or Isvestin" on come other Rogslan

language magnino such as "Oeonyek."

.OSMALO

also requested ary pertodieala or bulletins

the Stbanay "put out" for the "benefit of

your citizens, Livlag for si flue, in the USA."

On 15 Auguat 1962 Marina OSHALD prote to the Sordet Conenlar B1le

Consular Seetlen of the Sevlet Inbasay In

mahlogton; D, C a letter stating that she

mailed her "Residingo" and card Ne. 118 on

22 July 1963, and had had no further word

concerning 1t.

She stated that she as

worried boonume they had not been seknowledged.

She gave her addrese as 2703 Mercedes Aver,

Forth forth, Teras,

---

## Page 9

13-00000

DATE

1968

6 Sept 1968

33 Des 1962

January 2963,

17 February 1969

8' March 1963

EVENT

REFERENCE

In the summer or fall of 1962 Mre. and

Mg, George DalDHRMISCHILDT tools OSHALD

and his wife to meet & Irlend, Everett

COVER, In Dallas,

• Tanno. The CLoVale

Introduced o Ira. Juth PAINE to the

OSHARIS.

State Alamen

8 2000m0r 1962

On o September 1968 Murine OSWALDO

Sevlot Passport ma returned to her

sty: the Chief of the Geniular Beotlen

of the doviet limbassy ta Wirhington,

the letter mis addressed to her

It 270, Marcedes Avenue, Fort worthy

Texas.

Soviet Cormier 5430

On I December 190% Marina OSKMD advised

the Soviet Connlate in Washington, Di Go,

that sho and her busband hid meved to

Deline, Tere+

She give her addresa

as, P. D. Box 8915, Dellas, Texas.

Soviet Connier. File

In oarty Janary 1963, on the vocasion

of the Creak Orthodox

Christo, fr

and Mrs. Ceorge DaMORENSCHILDY brought

OSWALD and hia wife to & Husslan Chrlataes

party at the home of Mr, Beclan FORD, 1n

Dallan, Teng.

The party was attended by

mary people including Americane, Baropoans,

and Malte Fuselans.

During the party

OSWALD spent most of his time with a

Japanese girl named Taiko (phonetio).

State Aignam

8 December 11563

On 17 February 1963 Marina OSWALD mote to Soviet Donaular Ille

tho Sovlet Inbassy fron Dalles, ferns.

pequestiny help to retam to the homeland.

She stated that her husbend would not

socompany her, and she added, "I beg you

once more not to refuse uy request."

On 8 March 1963 the Consular DiVIsion of

the Soviet Babesay in Washington, D. C.»

Border tomm

- 5-

---

## Page 10

13-00000

DATE

8 Maron 1963

conte

17 March 1963

17 Murch 1963

20 March 1963

- 10 Apr11 1963

18 Apґ1] 1963

LENT

RUBRICE

Sortet Genrular F11e

to complete in comotton rich bar

request foi a van to return to the

uash, and other Instruatton She

ins crised that the prodessing of

her apollention muld tate tronS to 6

monthle

On 17 Maren 1963 Marina OSHALD completed

" two pago questiontre fer the Sortet

Embansy In lachtagtono. De C iu connertten

viet Consular File

blog.

On 19 Maroh: 1963 Narina OSHALD orato to

Sovlet Conaular Flle

the Seviet Anhasuador 1n Washlngton, Do Ga,

as intmated by the Censutar Division

of the Inbasay, requesting perioston te

return to the USSR

On 20 March 1963 an Itallan nado Monoltoher Now Jork Mimes

Caroine rifles a 1938 model of 6,5 un caliber, 7 lec 1965)

was recelved by OStLD at his Dallas Peas

011sco Bore The wifle had boin erdered from

the Chicago mil order house of Kola's

Sporting Coads In Sha sine of A hilt.

On 20 April 1963 Major Gene Barto Ay WALKER

ma farer upon wide riding in hia study

La hia Dallas hone OSwALDie ulder, Marina

OSWALD, has claimed that OSWALD told her

that he had ahot at General Walker.

On 18 April 1963 the Soviet Consulate

mdulsed Marine OSUALD by lotter that ahe

should cone to lashington, De Gus Or explain

by letter the reasons wich made her start

proceedings for return to the USSR for

permanent residence.

Sorlet Compuler File

---

## Page 11

13-00000

DALE

5. May 1963

A sume 1963

1 July 1963

8 July 1969

5 Augast 2963

R4220

Seviet Conmlar Pile

On 5 May 2963 Marina OSWALD Siled a

change of addresa notice to tho

Conular Division of the Soviet Enbeasy

1n Washington, Do Go The old address

was Even do Box 2915, Pallen, Tenna,

and the now address so civen no 4707

Magasino Street, New Orlema, Loutstana.

SLE

On l June 1963 another letter was sent fram Soviet

the Consular Divistin of the Soviet Embrany

In Washington; Do One requeeting Harina

OSWALD to emplate her renions for desiring

to retara to the USSR by lotter 1f she uns

unable to vinit Hashington for that purpose.

7. File

On 1 July 1963 L00 Enrvey OSHALD uroto to

the Sovlet Imbasay in Washington, Do Cog

dut as tog

requesting the seviet Embasy to "ruah*

the soviet entrance vian for his wife,

Narina OSKALD, bermse she uns going to

have a baby, in Cetober, and he asked

Shat the truve arrangements be made before

then. He added that his via could be connidered

separately.

SOTiet Consular Elte

On 8 July 1963 Marina OSMAID moto to the

Consular Division of the Soviet Embaany in

achington, Da leg

stating, "I urgently

boR you to failitate the expediting of

this metter for the remon stated in a

previous letter."

Soviet Conalar File

On 5 Anguat 1963 Marina OSWLD ma advised by Soviet Conduler File

the Consular Division af the Seviet Embansy

In linshington, D. Oep that har request for

entering the Soviet Union for permnent

residence had been fermarded to Moscow fer

processing, and that she would be advised

at once when the anever ma received.

-7.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

DATE

25 September

1969

EVEN

86 Septinber 1963

October 1963

20 Oetober 1963

23 October 1963

the onintstative divison of the draft.

Syaten for Texas says that Lee Harvey,

ÖSWALD oalled on her in Austing Texas

Beveral weaks before the assassinationy

In an attempt to get his dlecharge from;

Íthe Marines changed to an honorable one.

As OSWALD reportedly left New Orleans onj

iby bus on 26 September,

Stopped In Austin en route

to baredo on.:

25 Septamber which was about eight weeks:

before thomassassination

On 26 Septenter 1963 a report on Preasdent

Kennethis proposed Vialt was published in

the Dallas Norning leus.

Hey Test Here a Mabu ne

27 lovember 190

Some time In October 1963, a gunsmith in

Irving, Teans, mounted a telescople sight

on a gun for & man naned OSMD, The

gunandtb, Dial De RYDER, found & recept

showing he had mounted and edjueted a

a bad.

& sight on a gun for a cuetoner named OSWALD.

recalled that the work had been done about a

month ago (1o a, Ootaber) The Quitener

pald #h.50 fer drilling and $1.50 for Sere

sighting the weapon.

Hem Yosh Times

25) November 1968

on 20 Dot per da day a da a gave birth Serlot Consular Bl

On 23 October 1963 OSMLD attended a rally.

So lot to a Datended a counter en Tonk 7 9% 3

aet the forthconing UN Day progran on 24

October at which Adial Stevenson wan heakded.

Speaker at the U.S. Day rally was Major

General Echin A. Walker of Dallas, Robert A.

SURREX, & WALKER alde, rented the auditorium

for the rallyo

-8-

---

## Page 13

13-00000

DATE

25 doteber 1963

RISERSICE

cohe Be Call, to & 10e5.8e 01 60

01101310

IL Lance

ber 136

I Lovember 1963

1969

1 Hovenber (?)

9 Hevember 1962

On 1 Horanber 1963 Marime OSWALD advised

the Soviet Cunmler Sentlen of her now

address, Po D. Box 6225, Daliao, Pesas.

Sovlet Consular 112e

In m undated letter to the Censular Section Sorted Genentar Ple

of the sovot Kay La Whington, Do Co

mated fron Irvine, Deran on 1 Horamber 1963

Mains OSWALD spelorised for her delay in

"ting to epints her remons for destring

to retura to the vssh. She stated that she had

been unble to do so for "fantly rerens."

Shen thon stated tant her Ansband now desired

to return to the USSR with her She said

What the was "homesick" for the USSR, and that

har maband was frequently unemployed maklag

things very diffioult for then She stated

that mhe ulsbed to live in Leningrad where

she had a slater and a brother of her nother's

second merriage and were the grew up.

She

mIno felt that she would be able to find

work nore readily in Leninged as there were

more pharmales there.

On 9 November 1963 OSWALD wrote to the Consular let

Divlsion of the Sovlet Imbnesy in Mashington,

Do Cos stating that he had sean "Comrade KOSTIN™

In bacco lo explained that he vas not ablo .

to remain In Merloo Indefinitely because be

ho could not request a nes visa without uning

He added, "had he been able

to reach the Soviet Embansy In Havana an plated,

the embasay there would have had time to complete

"our busdnoos." OSWAYD stated that he had been

Intervened by the FBI on 1 Novenber in Dallas,

Texas, and warned not to engage in any Fot G.C.

octlvities.

He added that the FBI agent had

stated that Marina OSWALD could remain in the

Unitod States under FBI "protection," and that

arce

---

## Page 14

13-00000

DATE

9 November 1963.

conta

1 December 1963

she could "defeat" fren the Soviet Union

oSwALD olaimed that his wife had stronely

"protented" Chose trotted. In oloning

oSkALD atated that his its had elven birth

to a daughter. Andrey Marion OSHALD, on

80 Ootober 1963+

On 1 December 1961 Devlot Ambrseader:

Anatolty F, Dobryain turned ever to

Secretary of State Dean RUSty A Soviet

Conmar file on OSWALD,

Sortes Consular 812e

Hashinston, Poat

I Decembar 1963

- 10.0

---

