# 104-10268-10007

## Page 1

1104-10268-10007

GA

C/fi

SoA-Stern/ 311/3-27-64

CC:

BI. Rankin

Mr. Stezya

Filea

XAAZ-136392

Karch 27, 1254

TO

: Mr. Raricin

TRO:!

: S. A. Stern.

SUSECT: CIA FlO On Oswala

REPROCUCTION

PROHIBITED

Today, Friday, Narch 27, 1954, I met aü CIA headquarices with

Ili. Rocca to rovicw the CIA filo on Ice Harvey Oswald.

to file

contains thosc maicrals funished to us previously by CIA.

eudition, It containe the following raterials:

Cable roports fion the CIA station in licaco of l'oranber

22 and 23, 1953 relating to photographs of a person uno led vicited

tho Cuban and Soviet Inbassics in Mexico City during Octobci ud

November. 1953; and reports on these cables fumished on lovember

23 by CIA to the Sccret Scrice.

These messages are accuraicly

puisphracci in the attachments to the CIA memorandun of saich 24,

1954 (Cormission Documant 1574).

Cable of October 10 fron CIA Morico City station to CIN

headquariers reporting on Oswald contact ai Soviet Embassy, and

October 10, 1963 nessage from CIl headquarters to Mexico Cily station

oi background Infoznation on Ostrald.

Inese nessages are eccurately

reported in the CIA nonorandum 0i Januaiy 31, 1964.

I did not review any materials later than November 23, 1263.

HI. Rocca also showed me the "printout" oî the rcferences to

Oswald documonto in the CIA clectronic

data stornge syston.

was no Iten llatod which wa have not been civen cither 1n full teit

or paraphrased.

When I cvidenced an Interest In the CIA oloctronic dota

pOCCasiNG system, Mr. Rocca said that he would arrange a detailed

explanation at a future visit.

TRAVEL PROGRAM

ROSTRACT

REPROSUCTIUN

PROHIBITED

IP/CRIV

TOR PREG

?:

IP/2B

FOR Fine

CK

RECORD COPY

201-0289248

003572

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 2

1:3-00000

WARING NOTICE'

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

MaNODS

INSOLVED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

MEMORANDUM FOR: ME. de LeO Ranita

SUBJECT:

Information Developed by ClA os the

Astilly of Lee Harvey OSWALD in

Masteo Cily. September 29 €0

October 3, 1963

Thie refere

REPRODUCTINAG

- 10. 1968

vointing to tuformatte

agency regarding

Maico Gity during

the parted September 28 to Cetabe

134

• The cocond paragrepi of your lotter raises a question

with regard to reports on empent aspecta of lavestigallen in

Monico, on concorning Menican lendo Is the OSWALD cast

Spectftently, that puragraph anema to reler to speculative

tormation provided the Whato House by Jose L LAsAGA

which originated with Salvador DIAZ. VERSON. CIA haa

nothing to slá so tho detalled fratigation ol tble conster

connicted by the bedera Baron ol laventigation, We

aspear that the Commanton in alroady la possesatos, o

will bo ln the near futuro, el the detallo ol the cutcore of

that tave

3.

develop

ClA dete

Doongradio pero

2 1 3 00 120

de clacelfacias

SANE D20/15C0

003573

107008

JOPY 76f8

SONGS AN°

2 IN GOLED

÷ PAGE

COPY NO.

- *9

---

## Page 3

13-00000

•SEOBET

SENGGIE SOURCES AND

1T6O05

INVOLEO

to repert tãe detalla to the formiasion cor

REPRODUCTION

with

pos le made avilable to the Commission I

'NOTHBITED

The following replies e bayed to the numeratio

your letter of Inbriary 10:

We aro not la a postion to supply coptes of

telegrams sent between tho Fortet Embassies to

Washingtan and Mexico City.

to Iron ations d the tho police introgio

report-a Sibia DURAN are being forwarded to the

Comminion nader sapirate cover.

COWALD Visited the Chan Consulate la Merles City ou

an afternor 37 September 1963 and agata some fine

2 20

Don fire la so evidence that he

but we cantot em

mit day mentioned.

in paragraph

five, la basey

ster bis initini vials, sal that this later visit uns ou

the afternoon of a day on shich the Cuban Conual tallo

phoned the Sorter Gonzalate abour OSWALDe visa

problem This my will have been 29 September, Dut

we cannol be certais ol tils concluston.

to We do mt loon whether Cobes Consalate

archive courted information on OSWALD sott-

dating his Septembes-October 1%63 vistle From tha

statemento ol Silvia DURAN, one could conclude that

she bad never hend of CSWALD ill be virited the

Commulato la leto September 1963, The file da OSWALD

which Slivia DURAN mentions is the one she opened on

Kim at that time and wiles the bir.

of Pecalders Remedy"

CoWALDS as was plate filmini

PRO

003574

PAGE -

---

## Page 4

13-00000

TIVE 50U21

REPRODUCTION

We do not think i woald be taus

tant vas uniona bo first got a Soviet visa.

frant statemento ne quite common la consula:

practicE, an far as me Snon.

6. We belleve that SUvis DORAN's statement that

OSWALD knon no one In Cube meant Iterally thes, and

thie woull mean that as see there coald sponsor him,

voacà for bin, or insure that he would not became a

public charge. On the other baad, the remark of the

Soviet alfleial monia neers to liply that the Soviets had

No previas secord of OSWALD, al last in Menico, M

Endeed the Soviet offtelal ten soiling the truth.

We believe that OSWALD both telephoned to the

Soviet Embanay o Consulate, and was interviewed by

officials the

B.

RIEPRORICTIOA

ALD meant by ble

to Mexico while

was moving

na forwarding address

In the proceas which ho gave Itrat to the Caban Consulate.

then mislaid or forgot, and finally recovered froza Caban

Consulto files so he conld goos it to the Sovlet Conmlate,

# coad also be tine he was talking about his Mento City

hotel address which he might have momentartly forgotten

while se the Soviet Consulate.

% The Caban Conmlate and Cuben Embassy i

Mexico City are segarate offices located in separate

Cuban official parking tol. Thil!

a corner at Marques and Zamoral

is z8 160 Margies Street, The Sor

Connalete are both located in a lanf

comacted outbrildinga.

20. We eurmion that the references la OSWALD'E

9 November letter to o man who had since bees replaced

187598

COPY, 76/8

=3=

003575

PAGE

COPY

---

## Page 5

13-00000

na";

REPRODUCTION

mant refer to Caban Coural Eusebio AZCUS, who

PROHUBITED

Meaico fo Cuba on permanent transler on 16 November

1963, four dayn before the ansaraination, AZCUE had

been in Mexico for cigiteen years and it nas known to ua

so carly so September 1963 But AZCUE vas to be

replaced, Hits replacement did arrtre la September.

AZCUE was schoduled to lenve in October but did not

Jeave until 10 Novembere

We do not low wha sight have told OSWALD that

AZÇu: or any other Cabon had been or was to be replaced,

but to speculate that Silvia DURAN or some Soviet olficial

REPRODWIN

information on OSWALDS

Tha part of the investigation

8801

Al Burean of Investigation

MLe Al of our searces have been

quarted for further information but nono has been

developed. Nelther pro» nor enti- CASTRO persoas be

soupe have produced what we rogard as hard talermation.

12.

We can pally gueas why Surla DURAN described

OSWALD as a blonde. Perhapa his complicion seemed

light to her, compared with that of mont Latin Amertcan.

Vaen die was arrested, she hacies await lot

about two monthe, but apparenth

PROHIBITED

Richard Helms

Deputy Drector for Plane

Distribution:

Original & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP

1 - C/CI

X-C/CI/R&A

1 = C/WH/3.

CCI/R&A/RGRoccaxc/18 Feb

prepared by C/WH/ 30)

187908

COPi, 7of8

azy 1964 (Para 4 based on draft

11095

-PAGE

COPY NO.

003570

---

## Page 6

13-00000

ATCH

, WH Division

FROM

SUBJECT

Chiaf of Station, Mexico City

ZRTAFFY

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET/RYBAT

MARKED FOR INDEXING

RIEPRODUCION

• @*

PROMBITED

Please transmit the attached envelope to Fletcher M. KNIGHT only.

Willard C. CURTIS

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITEDC 005 10760UD,

завстʼЕ3

Attachment:

Envelope

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

Distributon:

3 - WFI, w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22390

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

25 October

HQS FILE NUMBER

201-

003.577

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

