# 104-10186-10066

## Page 1

104-10186-10066

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Juldo Damaso VASQUEZ

DATE. DISTR

CS C1-316/00687-65

11 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00715-64

8 September 1964

PLACE & Washington. D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1963

FELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE ORADINGS AIl DEFIMNIVE

APPRAMAL DE CONTINT I TENTATIVIL.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS ofilcer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1961.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

* Do Not Reproduce

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a sertes containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information fron the records of this Agency.

Il 18 requested shat the addressees take no action on any of

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

In 1955, when source first met Julio Damaso VASQUEZ, VASQUEZ

was

working for a nickel

enterprise.

In 1959 he participtedd

1n the Cuban invasion

of Panana and renalned in Panana in

hiding in the mountalns for about a month after the fallure

of the invasion.

Everqually VASQUEZ was caught and put in

Jall, renatning

there for about four months.

Source net him

again when source

reported for duty with

the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI).1 .

Headquarters Comment

1. Although Subject's patronymic sas first given as DAMASO,

source has since verified that VASQUEZ is the correct

patronymie.

Aside from the information forwarded in the

above feferenced report, this Agency has no additional

pertinent information.

2

S E

CRET

YO FOREIGN

DI SSEM

STATE

ARRAAY

REP

CINCLANT

NAVY

•TAR

CINCSO #

I&SS

NSA

XXX

l oce

1FB1 2

Nota. Hield distriburce indiard by "#".)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT.

IL SALEOR

JAUSA MOB

2 CL'RI

10L/SA:R

ALSALCL

IRIDiAY

HH. LAVE

POTAL NI/SA 8 (1), W5 1 (2), CI 7.

RID 1

nota so

OESO! ITE PREVIOCE ES-TIONS

LX 1838

Le HASHE

CSCI 316/00687-1

LIAISON

ICOOMITINE

201-758695

CLARA

YgD

---

