# 104-10517-10116

## Page 1

104-10517-10116

÷. • ;

SECRET

4 March 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECOND:

SI BJECT

:

AMHIP/1 Meeting, New York City,

28-29 Feb 1964.

28 Peb. and Saturday, 29 Feb.

2. Purpose of Meeting. To discuss course of actiod

by AMMIlIP in response to his recept of word from AMLASH via

a lotter sent from Paris by Carlos Jorge ROBRENO, aka "El Mago",

Details of Meeting.

On 21 Peb, A/1

called the writer via sterile

phone to say that he had received a letter from ROBRENO (R)

postmarked 25 Feb., Par18,

In one paragraph, R atated that he

had been given several "encargog" from AMALSH for A/1 to be

"transmitted personally" (see attached copy of letter).

the above information was not mentioned in the clear over the

phone, it was decided that the writer should meet with s/l in

to see the letter personally and to guide A/l in any

subsequent steps. The writer arrived at A/l's office at

•a 1240, 28 Feb.

It was A/l's impression that the "encargos"

otted in the letter inoluded things beyond personal requests,

but he was not absolutely certain of this interpretation due

to the brevity of the paragraph.

To resolve this expeditlously

as requested in the letter,

It was decided that A 1 should call

Paris and talk directly with R, avoiding.

of course, any phone

call to the Cuban Embassy there.

To achieve this,

18 f1rst

was necessary to call Luis FERNAVDE? Ruiz, aka "El Inglais

(5), at GAL-9913) and ask him to get in touch with Lute Enrique

who in turn could pass a message to R asking

him to call A/1 in New York. No interest of an ops nature

was revealed here, as the Paris group was told only (and

truthfully) that R had written to A/l in New York and that part

of his letter was unclear in its meaning, thus A/I wished to

with & in order to clarily this.

(A phone call

was not at all unusual in this case, given A/l'e normally

plus the fact that the letter

exteneive une of the phone aid not toclude a return address.)

indicated some urgency and

FERNANDEZ readily afreed to the request even though it was

after 2200 Paris time. A/1 walted in hia NYC 08f100 untll

SECRET

---

## Page 2

is 10%6

SECRET

0100 Parie time, but received no return oall.

0.

During the portod subsequent to the call to

FERNANDEZ,

the writer discussed the situation with A/1.

was agreed that there vas little we could do until we had

heard from R himself.

The writer also took this opportunity to

let All know that we were rather concerned over the arrival

of R with a message fron AMLASH, partloularly 1f Indeed 1t

bas any conneotion with AMLASH'a future plans..

that ade vealed to i sablo but de not expecte tather

"sourder", Jose Alberto INARRA Martie, ala "El Loco"' i vas

arrive next week with additional word from AMLASHl.)

also told that the arrival of these

was further clouded by the faot that AMlASH was to touch with

ms through another channel.

d.

In roply, A/l agreed that there may be "ome

cause for concern, but in laot he was not too apprebeneive es

he felt both men

were "100%" behind AMLASH. A/1 went on to.

say that by this he meant that both men hed been for a long

time assoolated with the otroles In whih AMLASH had been a

leader, and could be regarded as "loyal" to AMlASIl. However,

he did

speculate that both men were perhape closer Irlends

with each other then either was with AMLASII. A/1 also

stated that both AHLASH and he did not personally care for the

two men (R and IBARHA), but that AlASHl did feel that at least

R was a good "aotion type" and could probably be fitted into

AMLASHl'& plane at some point.

(This was reported also in A/1

Contact Report dated 23 0ot 1962) A/l went on to describe R

a8 much the snarter of the two; IBARRA being not too intelligent.

A/1 also stated that both sen drank quite a bit, turning

Into belligerent and talkative drunks.

Ile stated that this

over-Indulgence,

with its resulting belicosity, was undoubtedly

responsible for

R's shooting of the American in a bar brawl

over a tomato in lavana several year. ago.

According to A/1,

IBARRA 18 more consonly know as "ElDlanco", after the name

of hie step-father, Lino Blanco, to whom IBARRA's mother 1e

now married.

TRANSANCO

and R returned A/l'a call:

some items to discuss with A,1, but that it was "nothin

1amediate."

Ile stated that he had written a subsequent letter

to A/l containing more information and which should

In New York the next Monday or Tuesday (meaning the 2nd or

3rd of March).

R also atated that IBARRA was coming to Parla

the following week (week of 1 March and should bring with

him additional details. A/l said that he was quite busy at

02 m

SECRE:

made 1

Enchdet rem nata

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

present and preferred to postpone coming to Europe at this

time 11 1t wasn't absolutely necessary.

R said that he felt

it could wait at least until IlAlA arrived;

then the natter

could be reconsidered.

R said he oould he reached at the

following telephone No. 783-2952, at least for the next few

days (A/ failed to ask for an address or for the location

owner - of the phone).

R also stated that he planned te

vialt Spain a "little later", but did not disolose to A/l the

The conversation ended with A/l stating

mature of the trip'se to touch with bin later after he bad

to B that he would

received the letter from R.

Ile also asked R to let bie know

when IBARRA arrived in Paris.

A/l will contaot the uriter as soon as he gets

the letter from R and will mail lt to the accommodation addreas

he romularly uses.

last time ca 1730,

d. Soourite Feb 1966.

The writer left A/l's office for the

No Inoidents of a security

nature were noted.

te noted for the reoord, however,

that A/1 has given ANSPORT/l a temporary Job in his firm,

and the writer's presence was observed by AMSPORT during thie

sories of meetings.

End of Report

SAS/ BOB, C/O

SECRET

Enchant me sande

ON Taững Had

nectasstica sin

---

