# 104-10211-10002

## Page 1

104-10211-10002

14, Yay 1965

ME:SORAKDUH PORS Chief, SR/GI

SUBJECT

& 3-13 May Interrogation of NOSENKO

1. Although I hare attoniod all nine (S) sessions in the current

phase of liOSElKO'g Interrogation, I as jot have been unable to detormine

the reasars for the Intorrogatory comuct and canner and the true purpose

of the phase 1ts01f.

.2. As the Intertogator noted in the beginning, ho 1s to bo concorned

only with "certain parsonal satters." The interrogation of NOSEIKO along

such lines and iSElKO's responses - neithor have produced any change in

my opinion of NOSENiO not have appeared to have opened up any new, useful

or vuluablo inforsation to 19.

3o Perbaps, fron the psychologists" point of vlow, this intorrogation

has bean of sene value; but, even if this 15 30, I cannot see 1t fros a

review of his reports. These roports all contain basic arrors arising fren

the

psychologist's lack of knowlidgo of Soviet saality and his lack of

experience with the true nature of Soviot tall. The psychologiot 1s nat.

prepared to properly deal with and evaluato NOSE!TO because NOSE!#O 13

first, & Russian; seconà, a Sordet; third, a Cornists and, In addition to

all of this, a highly trained Intelligence agento

Lo BOSEIKO 13 ONO of a Lind. It 1s quite likely that the psychologist

never has exporierced such a personality tofore.. Then, with the wide

difference in their backgrounds and the psychologist's resulting inability

to uniorstund ISElOis character, 1t 1s unierstaniable that he cannot

proporty Juice ROSENKO and lils conduct, The Dost a can tonia ço 0z 12

NOSEI7O's case tas

sian are the carefuily e asidered opinions of thase who.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1904

CIA HISTGRICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 2

have backgrounds nore sinilar to that of ISENiO and experierce ulth persons

•I NOSELiTO's Espo. This bocones sero and core obvlous to se as I hoarth the

psychologist say, "Well, he 18 probably telling the truth," when sit I have

Been clearly that HOSEliO has been lying. There have been mary such cases In

this KH latest phase of the interrogation.

So As a rosult of such instances - Instancos of "sost intortogation, "

Whore NOSENKO's obvious Lloy hive sit been challenged - NOElO can you only

be gotting the Inpression that there still is a bay out for bis. le mst

renenber that IOSENKO care to us prepared only fer complete succoso or

failure, he expected that 1n the caso of falluro ho would bo subjected to

unneg hard Interrogation, harsh treatment, strong punishment. let he now

finds hissell in the pocullar ponition of having IMmerSoNANasaeny eutwardly

falled In his prinary assignment, yet being faitty woll treated and allowed to

contime sith his lles and dozinferratsiya despite his detention. He can now

only be thinking that there still 19 sabe hope for his and for his nission.

6o In his ropert on the 3 May session (first sessina), the doctor

wroto: "... After apologizing for having starach triuble he becase sast

receptive an even eager to cooperato. In general his sanner during the

Interviou remained relaxei, sientanaous una relevant.o.. As the intorviou

progressed 1t lias auparent to so that de was gettire considerable paschological.

relief from the nterview. At the time he left, he setually told se goodbye...'

This is typical of pany such statements ani Inclintts which are sy reasons for

asin; - do ve really need this kind of Interrogation? INaUHaNI

altho rejort itsolf ve mist ask 1f ve really necd to concern

ou selves with giving ROSEliNO " sychological rellof." Il not - and since 1t

1s obvious we are getting nothing olse out of 1t _ then this type of

---

## Page 3

Intorrogation should be Rbaridorod. M

% Elsewhere the Baychologist uritos that "the picute that ROSEliO

paintod of his father vas that of a hard verkang mno..e lecredited as a

worker at 13 or. 14o. le gradualed Iron the Instituto the Jeir after

NOSENZO vas bora In 1928: MOSEINO tolla of bodig told that bis father

would work at hore on his stulios whilo holding IOSEHO naross his 'Inees te

quiet hin when he would cry." le know all of this - except the fact that

JOBENSO Dold his son acresa his kness — Iton the Soriet reuspager, Bravis,

3 August 19563 and what father has not held his eryleg child across his

Ineos to confort him?

Bo It 1s certain that IN our HSINTO did have a fatber, and tha

It 1s quite Ikely that this father hold his across his iroe.. let this

does not anaver the real question - 1s our HOSENJOy father Ivan Isiderevich

ECSRIKO?

9e NOSENKO told as In this first seesion that hig father stulled In

the Rabiak and the Institute while vorling rall-tim suring the years 1923-28-

The doctor as quito inprussed with NOSELKO's statements on this. Tot Fravis

notedenly the studies •f

(agala on 3 August 1956, 10 ROSENO's obItuary) suda/diana / NOSB$KO, Ivan

tine he was stulying, Pravis would have sentioned this iitbout fall, becauso

It was that much sore to HOSsM:0's crealt. Further, the 3 August 1956 Pravia

olearly stated that artor graduation fron the Instituto, ISEYSO, I. Jo, vas

sent to hels ship building plant.

10. In the sare session, NOSEID stated that at sose point in 1922 his

Father wes add the to the Party, Krame lates that MSO I. Io batered the

Party 1o 99250 According to NOSERKO his family sored to Loningradl BuTly 1a 19340

Pravila (3 Aug 56) states trat they sorod is 1935.

---

## Page 4

(

11• II HISENKO does not reminter what his father did = how bo corked and

studied, when the family saved, when ho was adviited to the CPSU - why does se

not say 80? Why 1s bo apparently guessing at theso thinga? Aldo, why can"t to

reperbor these things when he can renenber boing hold across his father's knees?

12. The psychologists report includes and assessmat of LOSERSO's talbar:

"As hypothasis that could be sade based on the description of the sother, mould

bo that sho would haro dif: leulty adjusting avay from illialayer where she kad

been bern uni where she could deposá on ker rothor." Of whom 15 this not treo?

Who does not experienco seze difficulty in soving away fren familiar neighborbeeds

and friends?. De ve really seed this assesscent of INSENiO's sothars erations of

35 years age? Do we need it badly enough to sperd this wich tire and effort

sotting 1t?

13o The psychologist's report continuess ". Hls (ISSHSOls) bother

continued to get sup ort froz her father, and they appare: tly lived botter

(or beyond their moans) in Leningrul." So what? Is the point that we shauld

thans NOSENics graciother for belping INSENSO groW and CODe to 1s? Beal

If sat, then sgain that 1s the point? lay do so need this?

14o It 1s sy opinion that the typo lall uni line of questioning used e.

21 04 precent in this phase of BOSEN:O's interrogation should be abandonod;

we sust drop this olley of lotting loSero ra-ble on freely and uninterruptedly.

about the unip ortant detafls of his youth. Instoad, ve abould bogin sou

to press NISENIO and question his in detall about such things ass

Do His father's life (ve still cannot be certain that NOSEliO's

fathor vas the 1, I, MOSSliO); POT example, NOSENOls father"s sorvice la

ChoN (& what crealt was giren ROSEITO for this whilo ho was working in State

Do His grandfather (External); for esaryle, his arrest aná death Ia

---

## Page 5

ja11, the role this played when lü SEND antered the KCB, the sanror in which

1t was recordei 1n HOSLIKO's file, LOSENIO's questionirg In Personnel (IdontI

tles of Persennel enployees Includer) about thia, NOSENSO spoke with seba

haspiness and gratitudo of the financial assistance given his fantly by the

grardrather - the KGB would bave been nast unhappy to lears of thisto

150 IS HOSTIKO were really the person he claing to be he sould bave

sodison sore precisely of bis father's rank (rank given and dato received)!.

According to Pravis, In 1961, INSEl:O's father got the rank of Engineer-Rear

Airdral. MUKLESH The real BOSSiXO alse sbould be able to tell as more

docarations

precisely of the leasshuat given his father. Accorilrg to Prava, ho was

asardod three orders of lonis, Orior of lakhiray Pirst Class, three Orders of

Rod Bannor (Labor), Orior of Red Star, Onior of "jedal of Honor (bral Pochota)"

16. Further, 18 order to be certain that se haro the real lOSElIe, we

should question his 11 dotell about his fathor's dosth wal funeral, starting

with tho 11looss and the doctors In attoniance through the procession Ires the

Ball of Columna to the frenlin vall. I do not wish to include such detailed

questions in this sens, but can damse produce them toon request ribunds

especially those on the funeral procession, having twice been in such procession e

Iyself.

Accerding to Pravia (5 AUE 56), H. I. BOBROVNINDY was & Delber of m.

the funeral commission and oponed the funeral cererony on Red Squaro. BAZOVINOT

at that tino was Chairzaal of the Moscoi City Council. During the 13 Yay 1965

InterTier, NOSElKO nontioned & Elrl friend, Marias, uno once sorked as secretary

to DOEROVNEKOV.. Is this vas tun a tres statezeat, then NOSEiLO abould be able

to tell us such about BOPROVlOTs furtherzore, when talking about Marina,

MCSENKO chould probab-y have also volunteered the Inforution that "tais was tbe

BADA BOSROVALLOT uho vas on the co=ission for lo father's funeral.....

---

## Page 6

6

131 18, 3 My 1965 Interricu. Even Deu vo aro not certala of the daño whor

tho NOSEsO fastly sovod to Leningrad, ISSHKO BaJa It was In 1934, but Pravas

reports the rote as having been in 1935. It 1a possiblo to boljevo that

BUSEIKO eight have forgetton the dato, but we rust resember that ha asseciates

the Boto with his level of schooling. That 13, HSINTO says that be sated frol

the On lasa In Isolayor 1s 19340 uben ta vas 6 years old, to says that 1s

Leningrad ho was In the first grade.

resember

Ro NOSEIKO could sacath nene of his friends fren Hikelayou. It is

possible to believe that HOSSHKO sight havo forgotton those friens 15 he had.

had ne contict with them in later years? fot lOSEHTO hisself says that he

visited Mikolayer tilce after the fanily had sored fron there. Certainly be

must have sot with sobo of those itlerds, and cun 1t 1s Certain also that bo

would renerber those seetings.

Do Altbough NOSENSO could renember none of his frieDis fron lakolayer,

It 10 interesting to noto, he reDa bered vory woll that when his fanily sored

to leningrad in 1991 they vere net by his father with a "GIZE autosabile.

D. NOSENO roDerber also that while in Leningred his fanily lived

at

(1) Ploshchad Stacke's,

(2) Griboyodore Kanal, end

(3) 11590822201 ulitsa Gorkogo. Ill But HOSENID could Base

no friends or neighbors when he knew wall while in Leningrad.

do LOSSIO never centions visiting forDer frionds ben Malting former

places of residence.

•. The psycholofists say accept these "lapses of venery" as being

"just hurn," but I cannot.

19. 1 MaY InterlONe DurIng this intortioN, SuSENKO changed his story

---

## Page 7

alightly, saying that his farily noved to Leningrad in Irch d>r1l 1935;

where he started the first grade (In Spoterber 1935), NOSElLiO could sot,

how-vor, describo the achool or name oven one of lis teachers. When the

doctor Insistod this tiDe that INSENSO Dare soDe friends, he fato tha

sicknam, "Shtarm," but falled to give the boyls true nana, he alco 1se

Even 1f

gaTo the naso, Oleg ASCION SARONOY. Fire accept as a fact that NOSENSO

made seally cannot rosamber any of his friends lordiana ton

childhood, ve cannet bellove that ho also kas complotely forgotten abou t

the naval school and the tekhnikur.

20. Genoralo During these latest sessins, lICSElLO has boen "ry:ng

very hard to put the record of his schooling in proper order. But in

Ton of what has been atated in the past tim and his present

errors, 1t must be said that he 1a finalog It Impossible and he 1s n

not a t all convincing. in sy dilnion everything he has told us about

this, startleg stos the 1941 period, has boon a lie. It 18 possibla that

ho really vas In Kuybysher and Buku fos one reason or another, but MCH his

sia deseription of the circumstances ans situations is unbollovable to and

fits Do Setlot pattera of 11f0.

21. On d May IOSEND sald that while ho attenlod the 585th High Sobools.

In Fascos, he had the friends - Viadlair KABAlOY and Anatolly TIMARDY, But

thoso vero not friczas sto also lived on Seraftovich Street, nor vore they

children of Soviet high officials. NOSENKO falled to naso ary friends whe

vere chilaren of high officials, except SABUROT.

22. ROSElinüls description of his life on Serafleevich Street could

never convince me that he ever reully irai there. drong the higs officials

11ring a Serallnovich Streot, kostio mitioned mina sivant giri.

According to uy knowledge, prior to Wl II sal sany other ronbers of the

767279

---

## Page 8

soviet gotoratent aldo vere living thore (NAGANOVICH, otco)... If ISENKO 18

the person he clalmy to be ho should be ablo freoly to sase and disouss sam

persons MMMgM fron soong the firat-raniing officials she Lived on

Serafinovich Stroot, sot just SIVERNIY (chose adaress, Inclientally, already

has been published in The Secret Herld).

чаке

---

## Page 9

-SEGRET

24, Xia; 1965

lo It -as the ntenti a of the uncersigned to aureli every session canductedl

by the dictor in hope to ga:n sosethi:g now and useful for our future

intorrogations During those Dossions, I sanaged only to rofrost my

Donory of things ASENKO had; rovously nald. foth ng sou or sigrificant

developed during these sessions except for a feu niner facts ubich have ns

great value. It should be sentlosed that many of the facts that MESSITO

stated about his past l1fo vere soro sixed up than the story ho kid

provlously rolated.

Zo It 1s not the intont of th a aper to criticize the tork which the

¿octor has dons because the sessions have already takes palce and

the work is complated. ly main objection to this type of interrogation

Is that the deetor triod to mintain a neutral ait:tuie and nover

sy opinion that

challanged say of liNSElKO's Statorents. It 1s/iho docior cado a Idstake

in the lust session uben ho told liSEllo "Y ou are lSENTO." This leads

HASINO to balloto we accopted his life story and faully backgrou, i

It would to very hari lo question his again en this subjecte It 18 my

opini:n that se did not have enough inferention to min a iefinite

o nclust a that ho is LiSEstO. Uhat HiSTO told us coule bo obtainedl

o lowrazd by another person vory voll arloglon these sat enso los of

the Infor-ntion that ICSEND gave to us about his parents 15 stillnst

c.nvincing to sake corclusions • last of the questi ns during the recent

sessions vero of a joading nature und li SElil's answerms appoared to

Do of the type that the doctor vantod.

-SEGRET

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 10

- SECRET

#A IN IT OpINIER, ICSEC did Dat say soro about hia father, and la sany

Inglance loss, than the newspaper Pravela sald in 1956.

3. In the doctorig opini,D, liCSliKO sentioned to us quito e lou farily

Arionis Who vere around the ROSEND fanily and at the firat leak it 1a

a nvincing ¿bet to 1s I SENIO. Ja Seciation, IlKO gaTo to us

associatedl

only razos uha logically tould be scoutatud With lieSBIRO eS lOSElId's

ather, and nothing seating about their actuatios or urivate livase

significantly, jost'or to inforcallin ISiDO has given us do abaut

paople who are sothr either dond or so longer in authority. For exasalo,

'ALISHET, (fortor doputy chairtan of the Council of Hinistors, élod)3

VARUSHEY, (dION): SABUACE, (DO lOngeS & VIP); KABULOV

weather trinetir

(shot) longes VIR

BULGAIIN, (Do LONgOr VIP); TUZNETSOY, DE10., (shot); SECHERBAROT,

Ernationed a lou natas uho so Vips nor, but diel not say anythics

galorest ng about thiam • For exarlo, ho contioned SHVERUlE uhe LiToSeE

and the

with ELSYGIN • L

Latoly ho sentioned lalishal zausov's da gator uho he kneu vo/bava

a good picture of Rica LiUSOVA iTos one ef our erployees as vell as a fool

description of ZHUV's apartment.

So The only e nelusion ve can cone so frun the l'oregoing is that FEStaTO

hag been atioted to bay luilo or sothirg ebout the lives of important

Sorlet officialss, orthin nan is not MusHlO and ail ho knous 1s the

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SEGRET

Is the logend which has been provided his or or ansiers uhich ho could figure

out biesell.

6o Withor regard to his sother, ho did not contien anything of Importanco te

Us. to die not sention any of his tother's Ilinis asng Soviet VIPB, and

triod to avild or chango the subjoot when this setter was tarught up.

No I an not convincor that INSENiO lived on Sorinaticha and Granovakly

Streeta because he gave so littlo Inferratin about thase areas that

1t 19 1spossi. le to judge 11 he actually Itred there. Although he

..gavo correot inferration about a low ViPs uho livod "a houses:a tbat

ares, othor dotalls aro lacklag which woule confirm his residence there.

Bo ICSENKO's latest infornation on his educational backgroural 18 se

dred up and ho made so many vistakes rogarding Soviot realities that 1t

1s Ispossiblo to ba-leve toes any part of hia education.

9o I don't bolieve any part of lOSEliKOs story about his nil tary service.

"The laval Proparatory School In Baku and Leningradi" According to Seriot

regulation ; & person was usually called in the arry when he is 19 (these

caliod be called at ago 18.

we have graduated from high scheol or atherwise have a higher clucaties/)

ICSENIO JacE vas bora on tuax 30 October 1927, then ha would be 18 years

Old o= 30 Octobor 1945. Ho could be cal ed lato the aTty at this liso, 100.?

the fa'l of 1945, aichaugh ho should baro bean 18 by Soptember of that year i

ordinarily, ha could bo called to servico 1a 1946. In sy opinion, ivorything

MISSENTO said adout his udlitary background in any kina of serrice school

Naval Schools in Leningrad and Daku because he was too young to atland these

---

## Page 12

‹ SECRET

achosla «nd the schuols only accepted students who vore ready for regular

for accostence in these schools wa.

Military servico, and the lowest ago/zubiod

I 18 years. Then. we still have

unanswered quostiong on whore, when, and hav ISE firttabee high

sch: o1, cutliors story that he took Beco

courses in l'escow Evening ligh

Sch. al Attached to locid Instituto and his attoniance at the Loningred

5b1,ybulla nE Techaicus, I consides as a corploto llo, becauso it does cot

logical

I'it any/zai:ern of Saviot scallty.

10. It 1a ty bellef that liStNZO pfobably navor vas in cotuali allitary

barrica and dorancoly did not cajo is dary oath the vey bo acerton 15, pa

100., that ho titlao took the sath at the are of 15 or 16 1n Balu. Itllo not

conduct

nocessary to sade any sti

scanda roseared sinco an indiviaual load to

Do 18 and sa dotato duty dr cha serve in dor ta sa alibia to taio

the ailitary oath. Il ve baliove that diSENo das adeltiod to the :

Leningrad lister Mistary Preparatory School In ill vite Erades as

education} he vould not be und. ted to the school bornuge as his tro sal

because ho could not taco iho oath until October 191,5a

21. Diring the last interroçaios, phare vaS 8ODe CaRfusiON on sallo"s

part about h's ailitary ranks. An 'nou so have throo differont stories about

his ranks. Jr. Ito

• June 1947

Iste

apring of 1991

Sta It - ond of 53 or car to else has slated that ho

was prozated te

Lto in liéOlast interview, he sated that ho vas prazoted to St lot 1n April

or jay 1953.

SEcret

---

## Page 13

SECKET

1300.

Capt - July 1956

231a5t

Major - Aug/Sept 1959

So kot stutes that he nover vas a lajor.

Lt Col-toy 1963

prostol dad to be aproved by the Contral Co=a1atoo bacause of bis

youth, These storlos about his military ranka shauld nat be taken

should be

soriously ana/considerod as a curloto 110.

SO: PIT'S FROM THE. DICTURES INTERV. EM

1. HICCRiKChuX stated (7 lüy 1965) that ho touk the cath in Babe

In 1943 when be was 15 years old, but he did not rarenber how be onrolled

In gbe B abu school. In the sare sooting, le state that unile he was in.

the Baku school ho was konandir otdelenly • Also in the sado istervier ke

stated that ho wis in the testorsily Flotskly Illpash. It should be said that

the Moskorskly Fiotsidy Elipazh was only for naval persennel whe vere called

ja the regular naval service. All of this abould be consicoredes a 1ie.

20 On 10 May 1965, NGSCHKC stated thut screwbore ho was arrested

uhan ho was 16 gears old and vas syr put uner hise artest. If this 1mibcnnit

Ineident really took place, 1t 1s For @ likely that papa holpal his to

Got out of the arrest or 1t la possiblo to think that artor this Ritost

¿or soro crise unknown to la he bas put in ja1l and thon in a corcentration or

Laber carp. This 18 why liSBO tells us a story tbat in 194, in the fall,

ho was wo king for two or three sonths in the forest, khere he got sick

anal cundition vero very bado As litSEliKO doscribod it, too e aditio s

vero tore joo Like a labor easy than a segular silltary unito

-SECHEI

7577

---

## Page 14

SECRET

3o Accord Dz to loSEillis latest story, ho voluntarily wont to

the saval preparatory school of Frurze in 194l, but he didn't start any

studies until Novesber or December 1944, becausa the shole school vas

working in tho forost. Then In Fabruary or larch 1945, the shooting

accident took placo and he spent som tire in the hospital aril in F'ay

ho enrolled in a abipbuilding tochicun. OSEIKO triod to rako us

bolieve that while he wis in the naval preparatory school he stulled

Ilth grado subjeots, but as so can see, in actual faot, he did not study

anything becauso ho bai no tine. Latera ho stated that sdom he enrol: ed

In the shipbulldirg tochnicus 1n lay, tho next sonta bo goaluatod

and rocolved his cort:ficato as 11 ho graduatei fros a high achsol,

and got the right to go to a higner institution. Only a crazy person

could believe this story

do During all the Intorrogations, ve never got & clear pieture

Internal

how he received his first/passport in Leningrad and how he received his

first silitary icket. If ho really was desoblized and put in the mserve

1t should taxo place sonertere later then Octaber 1945 when he became

18 Jears olilo Definitoly there will be so talk about any military tieket

Deforo you reach 18 Scara oldo And Doso likely et that timo ho should bisro

been 19 years did to have been called into the service or posted to the

reserto. It bhould bo notod here 11 liSTED really sag in the naval

proparatory scholl 1a 19h and 1945 and recolved his Elitary tickot in

1945 then ho d-Minitely should be tue yearg olier than he cinles.

SEGRET

---

## Page 15

• CI5 tuT , ISENKO nared Jose friends, He contioned again SABL:Ves

sins. CDe of thon ililad bio uifo (Valya Tofrisoval, the daughter of

do uty minister YEFRIViV). He Illed hor because he found her in bed with

another wan. De uty Minister V. V. YEFRIlSV vas doputy to li: CElIC's fatbar.

H o van at his funeral and dolivored a appoch in Red Square during the

sumoral coresary. It was rotsoblo that toorboat whoa lo questioned

has about frionds do alvajo conti ned SABURY, leStio only sontioned

YEPH. MV by name and did not give a y dstalls. If li SEMO 1s the person 15

the person be is supposed to lo, ho would known such soro about the

I1{e and background of tho dejuty to his father. Al hero ag aía to bavo

a exasple of a jerson thaisatitired ula 19 no longer a VIP.

6. Cn 6 My NOSENiO told us stories about the oldest con of SABUSOV who r

married the daughter of the forter Minister of Railroads KOVALLY • It

should be noted hore that the ill story of VALET wis published in my

book The Secrot World. HiVALET vas punished and lost his V.P status 1n

1950.

To On 21 May , In answering the doctor's questle of about his firat vort in

the KGB , MSENKO told us a story hu he rochitod an onler to urito a statesent

¿o arrest a Soviet citizon uho vas connected with Soroignora, (saxerazas tho

Soviet citizen vrote a letter to the Aperican Enbassy) According to MiSERKO

he rejocted this type of lork alth-ugh there las ERRIYA's resolution for

190.

arrest (Russian word 18 Fazsatat!), Furthor, liSENKO expulabari that the

man was not guilty. The point of this story was to prove that he was working

an the SCD.

So On 20 lay USENKO one again readloned that the surking hours of the

KGB sere frer 10130 in the corning until I e'clock in the corning, with a

-SECRET

cour Leadian desire fadea

---

## Page 16

SEGRET

break between 5 and 8 in tbe

even ngo 1a 1 already said befere l'osces Hoadquartere

vith a roak 150s5 to 8 1l iho Ovonirg- Iil ablest' KGB, Inc uling Moscow

eity, corking hours are som 10:30 si ho sernies to 1 o'clock da the

Moralege Suzubara al the and ari ely and the beginning as duzust 1953,

marita dies, vera banged and hero pros la 6 2M use a lucia disabi:

brouis of 1/2 to 2 hour taken between!

Itbo hours of 1 Pito 3 PitH for

all the diTScen of the SCA inaludins hesiquartors do the eblast'.

Losingran, or sene other city,

¿cy sido used to wet's as a case officer

or was closely con: ooted with thin oblasts XUB. That 13 where he learnod the

working hours. That 1s upy ls race the ristaie as regarilag the verkins

heurs in boadquartoro.,

assessront the called his a bright sociopatho

Maybe he 15, but 12 IJ opinion

¡ very vell traned agent with ereat ingenulty end takeon preparation.

Salutely 115987768 418s the dactor's staterest eat la has bess assentially

e mincing and accurate 1a feneral 1l not alreys truthfal in dotall." In

one point 1t is pessible to agree with the dector that NOSENKO does Dot

predent to us the complote legend. In 5y opinios,, ISENKO, developed

his ora story or legond bl self in responso to leading questlois, ospecially

about bia early 118o dai echore up to 2953 delira 1952-1959 as on, '

to his defection, so sould believo that it uns a logenil devolo. on for

MOSENKO by -Do KGB, of course, with his help.

-SEG

---

## Page 17

14-00000

-SECRET

1o It is suzzested that. I partle-pato in the rost hostile, soedling

Interrogati. 5.

It is also suggestod that 1 Interrogato him

alone in thintertogation roon, although I profor that sordene be present

in the roem • But 1f I sa alorolt will giro so greaior autharity in

19 :..

M'SERTO's eyes, abi this ray be a psychological factor vorking to sy

benofit, B ut 11 liCSSiKO 15 raken to another place, then 1t 19 possible l

Interrogate bis

*he

ta ascod Cil autioritles tax for a long tine to talk to lisElti. In the

event of :y participatin in the intorrogution to av: lu sistakos and

n'sunerstandlegs, the interrogation should be held in Russian. It 1s not

posaible to rako the interrogation us hostilo as 1t night bo and to noedlo

hin 1I tbe intorrogat1 n 1s hold In English, as NSKHKO does not unio-starl

strong lords in English as sell us ko does in Fursian. Iring the interrogation

I 111l not sjoil fast in orior to rake 1t unierstaniable. It Is mierstood

that I am going to be correct, but not pollto. I lould isy to arold fortire

Into any arguants with lioseiko, la casa of argusents, I would ask his to be coated

and to ansver the questions. In the event he recognizes and te'ls so who 1

an, 1t 15 possiblo to five two answers: l. I an not he but he 13 caning ceon

to talk to you, and you are ristaken, 2o ler, I anD and you are going too,

Eivo ne proof that you are l. lou have to give no proof that you did sork

for the KeB.

SECRET

Sausa

---

## Page 18

14-00000

- SEGMET

In case of ty priticipation, I vould tike to be able to use all the inforzall.n

tha t MSElKC has previousiy told us. In utilizing this infortion, 1 vould

Isko to have i froo hani to press ila on certain points shich i feel eul

bo of value to u9u 1n gaining a cuntession fron hia. I need porrission to.

use the nares of Eagley, Big Geergo, and Hurphy, of course, chiy in the

proper way and shon it 1s necessary. The use of the chunges in the

Soviet gavorment could be odiscussed having in mira theuse those evente

in at the prover too liben It 18 a;, arent that 16 will help his to e nfess

(the uso of enig the fall of KIlSICHY without revealing the rise of tim

ShEiS. Ill and SEICEASTWIT.) It could be used in vart us ways, for example,

a neuspajer on the tacitor table with: nly the heailine showing. le could be

1làved to see the japer inadvertantly and to cauld seo wbat his reiotion

13. Or, the inferation could be brought out at a point in the Interrogatior

when we are trying to attees that he cust cunfess since we know be la

talling lies, and furtherzero, lla bossos aro no longer In authority in the

S. Viot Union and all 15 lost for hin arybowe

2o During lbe interrogati:n stress should constantly to g-ven to the fact

that NCBO 1s bo ng used as a tool of the KCB vithout proper training so:

of Averiem realities, and that his al-al a tas doomed fros the start becate

of thigo.

3. IS it is decicod to give lia sose drugs, fitshould bo fiven prior to ito hoc

211o intorrogatlin, so that to can use any E8 the aforration galred iTos

the use of those drugs a ainst him. The first natter which scou'd be sto

deteruined 1i erugs are used 19 shoth-r he

1S DiSENKO or not.

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

- SECRET

do I would not bost tato to continuathe Intorrogallona lo the paine uhere

perhapig

¡SElLO ¿cula bo extresoly tirel nod papada loss ablo to redist bastilo.

enough

questioning. Il thare is sot simpati personnel for extendod periods al

interrogatlos, then ho phould be loft In the intetrogation room during

breaks In the inter-ogailors

TO ARE AREAS TO BE EL SEATED UNINO TIE AT USE LIZIGAEEN

Lo Everything about MOSEsIC's eduentler start ug fros leningrad doseniar

achool, Dove to Moscer, l'oscow schoollid, should be exarined, And spacíal

attontion should be davoted to tho achools he attonied 1n Septerber 1941,

Kubyshot, Faxo, lascou, Lenirgrad, Gial back to loscow again. During Eba

interrogallon es this period, do abould eballenge insEl ty tha facto

that ho could so? bo at ay tilitary school irlor so to fall es 195. Taon

o do not bollero his story. This 11 orrogation sbould Includo dotallod

abou e shero ala parents Livad 850a Delabor 1941 dera 1912. Also Do sboura

Do questioned about h.8 51:3t passport vasch ho 1s sipposed to recalto soc

earfler than tood loverber 1943 ani not lat I thin the begioning of I9lo

The sam can be said abrat his ellitary licket, dodo, when and bou be

received his first silitary tickot, shrough what idlitary coriscarlat,

bocause bo could sot receive bis illitary tickot earlior than loverder 1965.

His story that he received big ail:tary ticket in la surer of 1945 18 falso.

What sedical comission tax was he erasined by bafore ke got his =111tuy

tickot should bo ascertaised. It 15 Ispossiblo that LSEYKO sas on active

M1l1tary servico prior to 1945 Incluling any nilitary scho-ls because if his

15º. He abould have been called to ¿ctive duty in ibe fall of 1965 or 'ere

-SECRET

---

## Page 20

SEGRE

11koly In 1946. I he wis postodin set: vo reserto in 1915 or 1946 Lben Lbe

question 1a sby ho vis nut called into ite arato

Tegather with this g'es the questi:n of l Sensola educatlea 7 in the

Instituto of Int-rnational Polations. The story he told us is

unbellevablo. First he sintes that 1t bas a four jear course and that

ho g:aduatee In 1949 and later on ho changed hissbory and anid that 1t vas

a Livo jear course and lent so fraduated in 1950.

2o NOSSiiko's first carriago io TELEGIlls daughtor arà divorce. Ca:this ''

subjeot, sIstiD abould be questioned about his registration of the

car:1ago, rassports, what district vas tio carriego registered in, about

baux anurtsents on tha flrst l'eshchanskaya Street, Including his allitary

status at this tlo, what ilei of silitary ticket be lad, uten 1t vas

registored. Pore infinita questions shiuli be asked abeut lho divorce

annuncement in the nouspapers and fail proceduro of the ditorce Inelra1-g

tho tho court sessions (district and oblast' courta), Allrony - the exaet

aata ni alpatt, reninding to lla that cariller ho told us chat bo cola to

his first vite 150, 000 rublos forn his surey shich ba earnes serving in tie

•Ese

Far Lasto Accoriling to the latest ISE:! statecents be spent in the Far Est

losa than 20 senths. Il this is the caso, then VESSATO 31323 receiree soro

than 5,0.0 subles a nonth. Io raie during the 20 machs the ICC, COO rubles

Sven 11 HISENDO vas in thi Par East and recaire there a double salarity

as a jro lto lo first year of service Inte CRU, bo coula sot sabe Lore tban

3,000 rubles a sonth (I gare bero the lighesi possiblo salarty for e junier

•efficor)

3. Botti uf tha subjects santionei aboro shoula bo sportanato Inesitzal

-SEGRET

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SEGRET

along with the ratter of hero & SENIO was living at that t100, aying

social a:tontion to Serifenicha, Granovskogo and First Y'ashchanskaya

Streets, leaping in aina that these subjeots will really chew 1f he is

ROSElKO. If sa do not got proper answeres on hhe firat tue subjeoto,

1£ ko continues to lie or give unsatisfactory answers, than in ly

opinion 1t 19 not necossary to question him about his study in the

foraigel rolations instituto. Is the ansvers aro Batisfactory or moro

ronlistle then so would sore to the Instituto ol International Relations.

loo NOSRIKO's Entry to the RGB. Bocause lo havo A or 5 different datos

on his enry into the KGB I think it would be a good liea to start goustioning

bla fro: the posat uhea bo sala that once prior to 1952 do bad"complato

interrion vith the XAB socassanta roposentatave about bis employsent

1a the KCB, but he rejected their proposal because ho did not like 1to

From thia point ve vould go on fror the beginning screwhere in 1952 wben be

fIrst talked with KABULOY and So cD. And he should bo challenged ail the die

that ICB did not work ho way he deseribed to us. Then sonewhere during

the intorrogation he should bo rezinded os asked questicas could a person.

a roco send: to the IG3 by a parson uho was shot to death as an enory of

¿ho jeopie.

Do whose

(other's backzroum 1s roble (ivoryan), and whose graddiattor vas

A Trotsiigito ana uho vas arrested and dies 12 ja1).

co those cither of first viro vas arrested and vas in fall tho day bo

entered the KGB.

---

## Page 22

SEGRET

•do uho divorced his first vilo not in the proper way and probably vas.

guilty and quastion about her sis his inerality was discussed in tha

party curmission of the CrSU

Do who entered the ICEy uhen ho was already overage penbor of the

Kongorol without any desire to bocone zag & serber of the Comnist Party.

Io whould a person with such background sentioned above be taken

to work in the SCD Aperlean Departent

So who s00s lost his Konsenal combership because of hia nisuse of

operational docurents and lamprality.

Do who was arrestod for 15 duga for the reasons cention above.

Io who was withoug forsonal and party remberghip for 2 years.

Jo who rejocted the ordor of the tin'stor to urito a stato-ont for

rest in the bourge of his work .

•tea

It 18 very hard now to develo, questions about ls entry into the KGB but be

should be challenged all the time about his ansvera.

5. I illa not sention about his bo.rg In the Far Bast and how be vas

transferred fron CRU to KCB • The line of questions on this matter would

depenl or connected whith ansveras tex about hig ciucation and how he enterud

the ICB. Questions about his tool transfer fros the GlU to the KGB could be

put together when no will questica his sbout lis entry into ibo KGB, his

personal file, and allitar; ranks.

6. I would definitoly utilize and sbou to him iho nuber 7, that 1a

connected wih 1t, anijust ask his for an explanation.

To LOGENKOrE trip to Gorily la search of CHEREDANO, This questIra should

— SEATE

---

## Page 23

Aculi

SECRET

stadtod tros the point where ho first heard of CHERtiAlOVis defootiva fru

Moscow, NOSEliKO's isip to Goridy and hou long he stuiled the CHEREPALiCY

papers. Here all the liOSSiKO docurents should be it band.

Bo liOSEiKO's Oisintlonal ani social sctivities on fed Square during the

holl. aya and father's funeral also sorr liCSEllols presence at tho frealin

hot as

should be clusely investigated because it 1s sy beilof borkas often in

Real Square as ho chatredo If he las thero, it was oniy once d: tuice

and 1t sould bo ausy to nix his up about these ratterso Questions en, a

this subject could be developod according to his answers.

•9. I:o la like to take ICSElKO on &-rip fron Kursily Station in Noscow

to his apartrent on tarodnaya Street long Chialovskaya Street and

Ingansa • Also on a trip along Dzerzhiraldy Streetsretenke Street aol

First l'oshchanskaya Stroat to his apartient bufiding where he liven with

He firat uifo. This is necessary to bo sure that he real y Ilved in khose

places. I still io not ballovo that he joelly lited at these sidresses,

excopt for the laot that he my have lived nearby 1n aufehouses.

10. Interrogation on operational questions such as hia work sith agente

and his tes of safehcuse, etc. could be held later. It depends how the

Jon interrogation 600s-

Note: I have no sjecial sug, estions hou to exploit ¡CSEliO"s irforation,..

1t depends on the next stage of the interroga-lon, but I su against

tuxing taraing his back to the joviets, ribother lo corfosses of not.

He hate haze toperorything in our pover to sake his confoss in order to

win this big game.

Is so publish his story oven with our changes without his corfessien

- SECRET

---

## Page 24

-SECRET

denonstarte

we will ce on

a the losirg sido. There is no room to tdacoitogantia that

defection 18 fl the aot of an honorablo potivated can vithout his

confes31.n

"Das;"

SECRET

---

## Page 25

14 Jamany, 196%

mean. ly

Mondoldo the die liger jungel clind sood haras

•e cripiar, documa; nor los it iced gossible

Child gogood

•nalgain i: afterol in to le tint li ray sorre as

Is necrisar? breanso if mires alstaies in ier Soviet.

donnellapron; suspicious ta? it discrenscles in her

story preling her li in:; iSt; anl some peculiarities

la her corespondoner with adlessees in the USSh, which

strongly dread 1909comotor.oforom code as emploged

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 199%

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 26

?0•.8.-4-85

(

1:::

info.

eti::.. 1....!.... 1 11: 1111t 15 20t listed.

110101109 100101 Muel CEre de Matill Of

decirrese

Malone indialor no ile Taller et the child.

1s 1s prision tl dorication, :roirssion, politics,

•8-10-87:8881

'espegio!

1.e 19.

Prom my recriro: in thi triel serrity sérvices I

---

## Page 27

hn0s that the soviets will not rnulster the name of the

father if there has not been a

fornal marriage - even

is the identits of the common-law father is knowa.

3. Birth Coopilacales - Ictually three copies of Marina's

birth corticicates are furnished. IT! *340 is a copy

of her bira certificate issuoi on 19 July 1961. in

The oties two birth cortificates are con-

rained in IraS 202-270. These are notarized copies of

I till, notarieed in irise. Doe of lose; Tator twol

' reguirio

birth certifientes was procured on 1 ang. 1961 and the

second vas obtained on 8 dug. 1961. Two different no-

tarys notarized these two birth certificaies - both ob-

tained in linal within a soir day pericd. Ty the hand-

His: clot motiflentes - pity the notardy sigiatures

---

## Page 28

the 1::.911e gurstar should bo asked of tatarie:

What us...?

as The origin as her sanallysial patronynia..

by hat iappenod to the original of ber birth

certificate which ste mist have had in order to

enter prina:s school, pharracy school, ard to 89.

her pissport when she reached the ajo of 16 - in

..'

c) Thy did she request i second copy. marked

"pOiTORiA", of her birth certificate ITEr 934)

d) ITEN $3-30 was issurd in Arkhangelst a'out = 1000

Lilometers fror MINSK. Did she travel there perso-

mally to apply for her birth certificate Did sho

sTIle lex 1l" Tas is cond lo her throuch tho mall or did

she pick i. up at the linst militia headquartes.

Wint reasos did she give tie ARKHAiGELSi ailitia

---

## Page 29

autio: ties foi reporting the seasid cong of her

birth certificate. My mas she appijing for this

viate serificate on 19 July lo01ib::%ei

e) The ITEM =310 birth certilicate is supposed to bo

an exact duplicate of the birth certificate. issued

after her birth. This normally is issued several

days after birth becauss parents do not usually sh down

to register the birth of a child on the day of the birth -

not even in the USSR. ITSH $340 shows that LARINg's

birth mas registered on 11 Aug. 1911 and that she

Que dege on 10 daly 1988. 2ar lea 38gol lead Poor A

copy of this certificate on 19 July 1961. For sone

reason the 9 in 19 July 1951, is marked over and is

an 0hr1015 chango of the figured to g in tho

Polloine 0.sg l. An esamination of the original

berate change.

Such a change could onlj be signifi-

---

## Page 30

is noi a bona-fide lemont, actually

Soviets mould note

such

an obvious change. certainly

if she applied for the two nolarized copies of ber

berti certificate using iral 4340 as a basis lur

thesi new copics she would be closely questioned

and it is nore than likely that notarized copies

would not be issus on a marsed over original.

it migh: he possible that the flist notary would

not have. noticed the rarird over. origintl.. Fowever,.

n mainal notariod birth irittficate sis Insued in

Manak. ly selll another notary.

---

## Page 31

14-00000

fy:

91627 28070622. 333

• le crate triiin 1a: 1:137)

...?.

tuta" e::0!" 0i

62

g. 1015

dues austin; la disco? tio infusim of dis year of tor

birt!.

tribeature

iterinino she critifinatia.

1t 30:r46 that 1t

-i....!.

11121 1- ti34. Siante

---

## Page 32

14-00000

(

= "o

and crtified the vaccinations; and

• sunront!; still ancter: corson Cossalal! in

sisia:1%i l0 tie pajgician) printed ii the vicci-

meon, issition and the tipe of vaccination given.

• :. osial certainly should he ashod roy she

•is die reintend uncritions tron tir snip's

18:0 1569 1:0:n89h this c11 not Piste EDiCCE

i sortial exolatio

luci la enticis en

stifeate

an erade de irene doll to or tempassar danielse

---

## Page 33

now the CorinGled do Guld Merciand:

int muslind and tood loand atlaur in farina's antobiorraphy

a naina wireity ls, according 10 lur Given

8.1u.ed turn, thi sis.ro registration stars

Keesumoi temper. The bilitary. service boeslat...

#waver, slows that she-s 861t7+91 602-0901

5: this jocurent, it is shuan thil farina das given

2072.

---

## Page 34

::.?0**..

10..8.11

i:a; antice pes cancollor. Gre logical raglanation

!o: tuls might ds that the carollation mus made

tion "a-ina infornod the comissariat o. lei

mariaje. But dirs. Ostin should le asted aucut

then, ind he, ansver shuni be noted carefully.

My 5ra8101% o8 this dorareat shoors that as noted

alcon. Jaina is rexistored in Minsk in Frunzen-

utiy ingon on 13 Octoher 1959, Thence she was de-

resiatored in loninsig Payor. Nowhere in "arina's

mulebingraphy, the repoi: or the Fl': intirview

of in:ina or any other official ragers helonging

ogairitton, There is suit discussion or the charre

---

## Page 35

14-00000

1005::

(

ommunird almost is soon as the rigilibi's left.

ira. 9ouall must le aried anout thie suve in detall.

Thy ill too, tove int vere the exart addresses"

aho sers teir noisitois: and so si. This "ove

•noy lil geer; sie ias ofiered little detailed

corerage o! any part of her life), ¿ut bocuase

1: liao: ilere In the airlin of the perior in

les-le 190 dega 11D i wore arranging los srileen los tlie

1.5. rentallo; 8eo looned diary Got 91e9 griddead.

15 Juls do 9 ligust, thi foillo's 10rad that chey

Ul S18.0lal: a012 l880dd0 Billiond Gall: d08 118810808019001

---

## Page 36

14-00008

)

le una liberino unt nellifire

...../ 110 1 1 00: 11: 1600. 10081-

..: 8101901:101.

14

crono. tir.: 1316)

oppo.. tho decanodi di copie is 80:01: 10; 1r.loss

•ho dro.o: 890.l'8 dol hear door 89.000 diale: 1000099

1181.80. il

deo o Male.

---

## Page 37

94-00000 .

trinitaiine del pio cacidis dol dili chardon.

1:1::.

17508 111ni thors die a rurive of irremlpritios -

T0968. ::% 18 1068 180000900181990:0 100g.9901. :.811

Bolla → l go088:e

Paradit ed do con da amico dei dello: ica

---

## Page 38

14-00000

:4..

.?:.

die tirn.

11.09

are sino, esite trad is dritiro."" irregiarity

301: 00.90. 196919440497450990-

no do cile 1epiie8 ina cina, taron years.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

....sábiariniinmaaiás..

(

.":.

:...

::;

..:'.d.

: :

..:?...!.?1.9

". .

logie arginatalivi.

...:.

re. le Me le la periatiation

і" в:=.

...:

'8::.

i g.

1'1o

i =9.418.

i: iio..

mie dat98?

4o 000500109 dã 1094. 10 El io 300-

18.888

!

---

## Page 40

(

(

• :

1: leH1l: 10?l!llelld '0l0l!

1n

ive join si dirth, it is protasie

i!:: sorpora other tian torira filind in tie infor-

mon ronined for this reement: taun. cither

•staste inficut ine recordan.

Pared told barterlito 1a:a8aiia

girls too a dunlong di beticas sins michi ar asked

àlly ma: Hea. DalLU Mirru a masspor: mado

salia trous 11 camaro 89e: lo Bi. 18009958 1 0501:

I8 mili do sailo coi rope, flies de vas risprited

19o lalier dale lennie sie ras dle viio of 3

Fis. cildeen Porur.in? to do 1à. lo sta;.

'a":

---

## Page 41

and, =-. 0283

(

•::: 130

so to set lad surind salary

unable to purcrin a pasta, in lia J.S.

For Chide, name Matund into Both tirina's and

C.)

why? l!:lougi: me.

Lu on illon Tro. Chaild and del Mr Giro dia.

rolan 111805.

---

## Page 42

14-00000

(

1':

part do 118 1 1 pogo of

1: 841:si1

tragah Of stig. it collid is root in.

Tom aiso 1o knor at is witton loreaci the

li. Panto Mit Male Mural". 1128

111919

.:...

traito cout ill 2000. did clitidates

'to de meters 4l led ally Male die011.

1l::909ie Sifalog onl the sorbor and dair or the

roper lotter fali to fili In the abnor mertioned

infer mallon, nitor againally starting lo provide it?

d. "ellicnie of vaciination lor dure, issued

by ter Miust Fiest Clty tildron's Expiral,

say li: 190?. This date does not corespond

ear. is to the date of iscination (in day) rivea

He do 25506 mentional depriate of tard-

-..

---

## Page 43

dite di cricete

rd..

io ità ie2a

....':.

nora. circuocer, particellay in

Cinétiail.

1109 1 6r.9ni9! 186. T1e00 18 701! 115

.....:4w:170016 199 daidi 1 1109

..... : 100.11101

sei ol tie due dale le di reso piallo ori lutili

'#*

3x 00te 2210 Me decede e file goderee

• Al Moore 900 al fierale.

---

## Page 44

14-00000

•...л6.7»

19r1:9:19t the m91016, 1.01, 38 18 1018 Se 123

Petualed do the Heroni do yee dee dr probate.

a contificate ne concrisation lior is:ina), issued by

ten linch lotuct desigantior uncidar 131003) Sol-

clini: to.t, 15 say 19c.. leair, Gose Paragcaph

•"i noosed, tie date dore dot correapon: rotactly

to lis: date of caccination (la Mag) clue :

sarins's Interationi Citificate.

Here also it

li antikaly that an official cectifying a succina-

tina given ty ibmeone oiss at an earlier rate

valü have mistuten tir dite as siven on the ori-

sial coitifloate. Thee if the certifiing ship's

nigelo in merely accepted the OSiAlD's word for the

das of the vicintions, wig did he nut so indicate

in :as Internatioaal Certiftcates: liow. dil it hap-

per: that he ali accepted their word for farina's

revaccination, ou a second (16 "a5) date! ibi o

Tylis hir given: eecond dirtn" Surely evon if the

ari sacomplished on the

mae day. Then, shy did

Tirina int returi to los former place of caplogment

steal ions.

lonentering that, secording to tie

---

## Page 45

id. amonto

(

m10:01s

...:

is dion boisible diai farina nis jnstrua-

tai tis taro the gracinalions dond trig 3t cings

P1900:.

Iut lj vian sil nude: dias circhaszannes

:..".

alitbo, indecatri e claritied

do: d15r0a105l detril.

10. 1e1116! -1. 89 196-11;

1, 7ha1

11°2

•: i::

---

## Page 46

(

..:.:

we willd Mollable

r.e1:.11

....::e Mg:.

:=

W:199.85

:... 111l6014.

..r.:).

4le0-•11-9198:90

•: le 111918 : 1:-

lele ::...:.: 1009 10001009:10.

1..:81098%....88e8c0n 880-

Beata li le podero dirciarit to peste dade dalia-

---

## Page 47

le te peddy tiles drone the prat of

it."

1i60

':":

.e.

1 enarbeidon pito dur decamonta, to 1958 100% at

varimo jist of relatives in the 185t. lf ihis

was preparel fro thr purposa of bet-

t iist clo: ind aumls? !! ie, me die soi mention

•

ental hatrien "arion and ihe rEtini's shile in the

18ã, ind mone los correspondences sinte in tie us.).

lo men tlal a 18n Mill De 19D1509s

•farisodi no decidio apapres lla rade in mintion

---

## Page 48

(

:?:...

Marini: relaticas sith ti Ulriot's? has coniects

irar miras rued tre turbararion of this 8:t0bi0-

Sos da sti pirale: In 23% :6, 190:13 -1 citizea

tho si stie bill, lulls arare an: laurouthly

induly chont kook very coil lind sori ar atabio-

graph; as tai sie cas sicuri roul! nere: to accepted

anzo:

i11.

":::

...??.

logi a te poe #-1800088881.

---

## Page 49

14-00000

mo did he det tropt daria elficially and

lomily tecnidling le dio naterial di tani. darina

i':

W: afor livir: so long sill dor griginother

salho, "non cose decision did shn mir the changei

¿è tan and ahj - intrig Marini "ist to live with

.:lr.. did108. 1000..00l.sit.000.a0/.000.0.0ud0 @0s008 dökiBdri-

d.01::!

"nal creastoned tie lamily's core tu ioningrad:

= m9o cialil 89 san mora: nation le mist tire had

Metterlo de cleopatien pasa oillleel

---

## Page 50

td-innod

(

1, ee do Ctteelle08 jlgol 18 110 1810b10-

Mel.l do9 10 PogklJ

to:e joo d parrl.'s sost0r's

l orailly 1o Golarido Mill We Giald101d 11at

mo walei dien uuring ler sorcili joir id ire Phacnacy

Milttonl.

¿o Panioi ras giatrd thai sho cooodoi i Contra?

Aal ttela Du Mialy Mrougnit dlrion iot las: yoar

•u.rnho0l.. Lados shat ciccuistanco: cid sie ro to

aoas ihere" hat vere ber ditles? ino land dow ouch;

195 le pall io0 thin Wiok: Shat soke doialls (nares

di mrerrijors foilny vorinus; cdisi oi sarli, etc)

ean .e Dresldr airal this odo t!ey res this job

191. i:ateds

.ír mat trpe Cofficial rostgrailon) sl pension dia

arina and thie sther chaidros recrjra to vaom (to

the itflifren direetly, ne to the spontaiierl did

iho pinslon fall: Hoù vas it rereiiedi That was

tir imount of die jmaston:

(si Marina said she toon hor moals amig eron home.

slieoe 1or sao sho ablo tu do this That mas her

laei! inoame:°

Moat .11. 8arino disli!r g Durd alond le.r

Firal ini aflen eraduatson chae made lor quit alter

ie. da::

Ie is ose thlns -nre coton, bus not a-

Booair nf

..pr8:0 appea: for corl: at the place eo

---

## Page 51

14-00000

(

tale ray to destraude til it is drother

ile tor too to nave quit ini glid di sacrilo: so

asili. Hitst, she sauld lair bre: in trouble lame-

milesis with tir Jonsonos and der trade anion.

5oeni sto has sad that sie sent little lira in

l amiatris come

Hirr

againel; with to taruno a no 1ay and no rare pensions,

ellas iron scront or goirement. Thes, her mas she

all "a do this

11r). shy dil sarina fo to tori in lizin she has

hop iphope brocher ail his alfe. Marina irs sald

nothir, more in sleie interviers aint the irklav's.

whan sin above mentionerair her autobiograiny esce

the matson sionid le addressed in jus& that oay

Cal ma les connection nich the filal sor

---

## Page 52

14-00000

"'a!

(

been digree tear dies

jait a fis iri legfriends,.

oman sho ms her super-

V.iC:

in the marmonutical varchoise. - and for girins

sill ingue ansters to some questions regarding her

lans on and bos life with lee must in ascertained.

those

interrers covi-

ost: ss other then that saich can progrrly le expec-

tal at the person ste repirson's icisel: to be. Ber

testinoy regarding det sial lise in Leni.giad and

lars: 'for da marlace is nest suspi"ious. Her state-

au 1D entonni or lieutenant colonel - to lec and

to her satriage in an arerican. taien as part of her.

spry di pein: "just a ilain ordinary fir! in love",

are duit unlesterrable.

straige

combination di priusal 8o give namos and outright do-

produ:" from the realitie; oi soviet lifo is to be

1.0.= =99;

negront at these prainus anl iell of returning

tit. in ofiler poses no objretiona la bor later

mess, even maritage, with the Arericant

---

## Page 53

T1-00000

(

(

Tre: re700

she surall to gieitioreá tainer boat

•

"!,!:"

1125

11:0

13on tre than ste has toti nelud ill rerson for

ne sinognore in dirst, cathe: goan osci and

ade rosson for th: disteroora hotice: lus high par for

1og nasallel labar anlder lod salery. "1ls rorard

to tho latier. cve, Ji! in i:dg senso: Jas just as

Lee hiroli presrutd ii : ir recoloc! a sutsid, frant

tir cia the

ed cross i ming olhi corsicerations

to lo rade, certainty larine tould hare kaion of this.

and, wess there vere sonining sensitare aboit the

vis, ses. destimosy 90uld indirate she teows litale

-'..

: 1:1) "hy doos it seon sho also tears su litele of

ler bacand's ratore? erbasina remarire tliat....he did

ronale that es ordinary tan-on-de-strug smerican,

scilli aot discusi politics io a noticcable exteut. Eut

---

## Page 54

14-00000

!...i.s1'::

.i.l:

to

tie iS to pasclain dior persist viers

Tal santose stastro familets el sirect cornersh

And is arsesstnue ine Diestlent of SiriS? And

hot uan such got. astally, nost curstanding for their

coircintion, are able to serp notiontoly silent on

politient subjects even reiore their dives, : bile

spenling tas or three years in their "political

hicolai1'' larina

mist tr prestioned closely alcut

these things, just as she mit bu questioned cinsely

in orde: to identiis these nther assiciates" with

when lee OSTALD dil not discusss molitica.

115) Irs. OSTiD ms! le asied abou: hor trip to

-hilaR'iny of which me would inus nothing seir le not

Io: the saall collection ol letter critten to her

during ter stay tiere. Thy did she make no mention

et thias laap, jel Ball freely of her vacation trips

to leniorad, ete: that was the purpose of the trip?

Dias other details, (lesgtle: pliere of residence, ote.)

..: 9o: 001000 to it 10.

13. in bolet. is indicaled in the listegoing, i fis lie

belied of in undersiged, bused on the naterikis made

?.

---

## Page 55

td-innod

t"toine es

tt-n"

e, sa uunge de a'tipine.

"Coed

-.":

na sumanit ai nainis io ia di ie

(.

21

auaoE da trn Cedtd oedd dd peendalinde ilibeorgiig

aolai mosil rii'e .0ogli. lg irle 69,40099 161.940s

arai:t'ie is miis

i cirity cot Siork 1al den tDie ia

tho

anti'ns dl iri hasta:t follunioy tatir tolira io

ar.e

üs.

..Fra

---

## Page 56

15 November 1968

HEWORANDUX OF TRANSHITTAL

• TO : Chlo!,

ITES: ARDONOR Interrogation Transcripts

1..

Subaitted herewith, as roquested, are AEDIPPER/20's verbatie

transcripts (15; English language) of his interrogation of naDed,

26 July-13 August 1955; the first five (5) of these transcripta aro

accompanled by the corresponding verbatin Bussian-language transcripta

an index to the nanes mentioned in all of the

transcripts also 13 subaitted. Further, the original English-language

transcripts (15). with corrections, aro being returned to Headquarters

with this meno;

corresponding tape recordings already

have been returned.

2. With regard to the remainder of the original leadquarters

request, It has been agreed that ABDIPPER/20's transcripts are sell

explanatory at nost points and that his background couments on the

course and content of the interrogation will be reserved, to be

addressed to any future specific questions and reguirements generated

In Headquarters review of those transcripts.

3. It should be noted hero, however - In view of part three (3)

of Headquarters" request - that ASDIPPIR/20 did not use faise or

unfounded statements for any reason in any of the interrogation

sessions; It la believed possible that ideas to the contrary may

have arisen during review of the original transcripts, which included.

many Instances of leproper Interpretation of the Bussian "double

negative". Reviewlag the interrogation, AEDIPPBR/20 noted only tuo (2)

polnts at which he did not have a basis in detalled personal knowledge

(to 1954) or speciiie documents for statements nade to AtrotO%:

8. 1383

(lorakoy Bazvedyvatol'ayy Punkt - Navy Intelligence

Polnt) - ASDIPPER/20 stated that at the tine ADOOR vas assigned to

duty w1th an unD on the Baltie other Maps also vere in operation la.

that area; la fact, although ARDIPPER/20 knows that other lia tere

le oporation toro, he ban no knovlodgo os toAPROVED FOR RETESE 1994

locations or dates of operation:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

FIES ANI

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SIGHIT

BIES ONLI

= 2a

b. Lotter on KRUGLOy's Renoval - AJDIPPI/20'a statement

that a lottor explainlag KRUGLOV's renoval hadibeen circulated withia

Stato Security as based upon personal knowledge, not of the fact

Itself, but of the State Security practice altays of oirculating such

lotters following the removal of other State Security, chiefs, such as

ADAKUNOV and ESTIlA.

1. AEDIPPER/20's English language transcripts employ the .

followlag key (not repeatod in the transcripts):

a. A — ARDIPPER/20;

b. B - AEDONOR;

C. CaT. H. BAGLEY

d. () — Single sets of parentheses enclose transliterations

or, in case of

•. (2G), (8G), (81) • Indicate a number of misaing. or garblod

or otheruise "unroadable" vords;

I. (6)) - Double sets of parentheses enclose transeriberl

translator remarks, explanations, otc., In addltlos to/not part or

Interrogation content;

6. (??) → Querled transcriptions are thus indicated;

h. .... - Ellipses Indicate either & belef pause in speech

os an unfinished sentence, not onitted or "unreadable" phrases;

1. __— Underlines, except in cases of book and perfodical

titles, indicate emphasis in speech.

5. As noted, the AKDIPPER/20 transcripts are verbatia transcripta;

howver, there has been some "anelloration" of the few obscenities

found therein.

Attachmente

* por pars 1

Distribution:

0r1g & 1 - Addressee

I. AEDIPPER /20

---

