# 104-10103-10318

## Page 1

104-10103-10318

site n

Profect Z9Pi.FLE

1. Identiliatine: The purpose of Profit IRRiFLE is

to spot, sop, and use tops afeet aust for Divise

poor openstious. Ageits wis be spitted in severed areas,

midding the Kited tits, but wis pons for spintions

reunity rescous will probably not be used is then

thing inducted is the Is and It anas, but it

is muticipatd thest this will he eduled to

areas. The profect will be spented asinst third-sant.

ratellatione and perconned.

• Objetie: The elictice of this preten the men

1= code and cipher materia, in accordance with

ste ationed tent, agency. hive these requirements me

subjit to froquent reicion, no listrg if tarsets warts

he waled for the dumation of the profect. specific

operations will be requited on the baris if need sis?

I with assistance hom area diesisue and staticia is

3 Batigrai

3 Racepound: Du responce to the incitizing requirement

for the spretoned procisement of fire is cale and cipler.

materials, Picion D in 1960 began the spotting of.

agent acets as a declopmented actuts, Duming the came

---

## Page 2

period reginemento from NSA becaue mare refuel anti.

mauy respects neare risitio. Gecsuce most staticis are!.

not equipped to conduct this type of openction and becaus

of the decidit, if complete, centraliss control suer the

entire iffort, it was determied tist flusion D, which is

in chest touch with NIA on proceet requirements, coul

best conduct the istity. The finch spoting actins,

has row adwaiced for ensugh to pustify neising from

the 014 eatepany;

4 Operational assets

(Persial: I PTWIN is under writter.

coutract as a precipel agent, with the primary tact of

spsting agent candidsts. Of fuin was finet contests ine

1958 trough the thief of the

the Chief of Station

Lie concuction with

an illegel rarestics operation into the United Hates. For

a peried of a year, and a half the was contected in to

sporadically bey cos,)

I in belief of the

Bustan of Nevestics, His of this ture a nelso!

Bitter

---

## Page 3

Eifun annie satan

77,200

Tract apes espines for

Effin taths agents 4 agait candiditer i: 2, 018

Ties for cervies try and

standhi; of agents and

agent candidates:

2,000

Travel of staffemployees o

engaged in Zorifle actint,:

2,500

tire of refitoners, automobiles

and otte, apital gunce;

1, 64C

14.,700

Pay for agents on completion of jobs?

---

## Page 4

bilite,.

2) Ter unexpirice (Rughsk) (teleston DSP) and expensive

justersid, jarsen operationally competent, muthlers, stabile,

65 second ope there (fir eide), die i suit patie

b. Within Kibah, see fouch font for contist,

search, twasing, sace offinig, sto- Deprethait

in this focal pant mandatory, Dei officall, chind

of one-man drines (Enspe) ontral hace will

d. Vi PA's in intimitiries; vigilcase-office

from chant to finish.

e- To opposed to official of foreign

gaut.

files nece of aunt die apist withi

z. ice of alreaty tested arts fa.

is the nearsh

his Hack-by histop Flakers who can

---

## Page 5

jeize as foreignere.

if Blackensitt

i Prote Late ah, thinkiN

Lie dissecious ii

stationas.

ready to gon, it

a Vo. Averican citizeis ar residents on

percon, singleton ops.

ei Dio mating a candidate in teame tantary

i Exclude oranget testers ca, there

as sincials.

5. Guer; fling ch suld nichide precision for

Alloming tonor lades in one of ther?

c. Icoing.

8. The nobody to dies never det fries, oth nee

will beat be aware of pittille or soused, factors such

as freel to trauel, wanted listo,; eto.

9. Hisull have plane, 201 in ki to lachet tica, e

a CE filii

10. Possibli eer of staller for it aiti,

ne tilbeithorie.

Reeping of files.

---

## Page 6

- freed n to bianed

Jeset, operationel ethic s more prolfaus

leche for enciperig o deiphigh, theise if Leuvide obses.

3) Tue forced posit for warch, contogh, tracing, case-citent PA

selesteses Complete

sie authoritif in this foce pret mandate

contre bace unte den tran bation consis

preilly. for appossch

who tacited big rise

sesce officine who co

officiel referend

sie residents for diet actione

fineisge elemectie To erinnet

pais se forequaren and limitid

5) Tir chem of

inuting blackwel.

6) Don't weit

ay aelecte in herice territory.

7) Gieil 2,

frisle mitte all poribeht,

s) Flaming chistd cheds fie

niss for divis

i 4 die trentiet.

4) Exclude organisation orie, there wits recond of

---

## Page 7

mad, fictit

und could lied its

) Iafia.

«) D'onicar recite

use peres.

arcutes,

12) Perist of tist.

selectir.

reperceice.

offer pricilalitics, (ass

villance, ete forecla

13) A beta pursue insted shout hour same CE

15) i feat tid tineti on

tian or minderes etc.

silented ?

---

## Page 8

ped

Ee Catali

"The magic lutton

Canes

Lant

T541.

First

kivlile..

linicki

from 02 /

Want to but retoda

i Example 3 curer

Lelf: al.

"Tia

here found ba)

way.. Fias

Arathia -=

Refit Period.

Presso Mini

ülieslien

: Place a coro fun is remin

Hude leves

start Resit Brakes -

sid - Recein;

Substit telen

---

## Page 9

no figent or topers.

except fer comin.

3.

ticles 1500-6-20-11 193-

tropet de Pluto

michet rinterre

tent de pons

conver pile - crite de firene

---

