# 104-10122-10411

## Page 1

- 104-1012210411

23 June 1976

MEMORANDUSS FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

:

Manuel

L. DE ARMAS

SF#591

865

Reference is made to the attached cable traffic which

sets

forth the "defection" of the Subject to Cuba circa April

In substance,

agent who had been recruited by a fnu BLACKENHOUSE (no Office

of Security traces) in 1969. DE ARMAS also claimed to have been

stationed in New York City in 1971 where he maintained contact

with BLACKENHOUSE and Richard TOMLEY (probably identifiable

with Peter I. B. TONLEY, Washington Area Recruiting Office).

2.

In the cited press conference, DE ARMAS made many

allegations concerning purported ClA operations, such as

assassination plots and a plan to rupture relations betweer

Venezuela and Cuba.

Details of these allegations are set

forth in the attached cable traffic and are not treated in

instant memorandum.

However, interest in DE ARMAS' allegations

concerning alleged CIA operations concerns the identities of

individuals that he claimed to have been Agency operatives and

assets; details regarding these individuals are covered in the

latter

portion of instant memorandum.

3. Agency interest in DE ARMAS was originally predicated

upon the receipt of a letter written by DE ARMAS on 12 September

1972 in which he related details concerning his anti-CASTRO

activities through his membership in a group called ABDALA.

The letter also contained a request for employment with the

AS a result of DE ARMAS' letter, WH Division requested

a Special Inquiry by the Office of Security for the purpose of

establishing DE ARMAS' identity, which was completed in October

In May 1973 Office of Personnel opened a file on DE ARMAS

and apparently went through the normal routine of shopping his

file.

Interest in DE ARMAS terminated when TOMLEY sent DE ARMAS

a letter advising him that the Agency had nothing currently

available.

Then on 22 January 1973 DE ARMAS wrote TOMLEY

thanking the latter for interest following a telephone call

SECRET

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 007472

---

## Page 2

DE ARMAS made to TOMLEY in which DE ARMAS wanted to know once

and forever if there were any openings for him. DE ARMAS'

security file reflected no subsequent

attached cable traffic following his "defection."

• activity except for the

4.

Regarding the personalities mentioned by DE ARMAS

in his Havana press conference, it appears that several

individuals may be identical to

former WH Division assets,

as

shown beloi.

It should be noted that DE ARMAS did not identify

any bona fide Agency staff employees of agents nor does it

appear that he identified any past or current operations.

seems likely that DE ARMAS was provided a list of known or

suspected Agency

assets by the DGI as part of Cuba's ongoing

anti-CIA, anti-U. S. Government campaign designed to offset

adverse criticism to Cuba's military assistance to Angola.

Set forth below are those individuals alleged to have been

connected with Agency operations by DE ARMAS; results. of Office

of Security indices searches and file reviews follow each name

where

a

possible identification could be made.

NAME GIVEN BY DE ARMAS

Bob DYNES

(aka: DINUS, DAYNES)

Robert Bud MILES (alleged

to have been the supplier

of explosives used in the

*

• murder_of Rolando MASFERRER)

Lazaro ALVAREZ

OS FILE, IF ANY, AND COMMENTS

No Office of Security traces

regarding all variations.

No Office of Security traces.

Fred DUNCAN

Possibly identifiable with

Lazaro Gustavo ARECES ALVAREZ,

SF#753 905, on whom a POA was

requested by WH Divisio

(JMATE) in June 1964 for use

canceled an october it ales

No Office of Security traces;

believed to be a DEA officer

stationed in Caracas.

No Office of Security traces;

believed to be a DEA officer

stationed in Caracas.

Doug PHILLIPS

*MASFENHER Died in 1925

when his fon was blown 2

ipart by a bout is

Florida.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NAME GIVEN BY DE ARMAS

John VALDAVIAN

(aka: BLADABIAN)

A. NASS

Anselmo ALLIEGRO (HIJO)

Justo ALFONSO

(aka: "'El Gallego")

Ricardo MORALES NAVARRETE

Armando RUIZ

!

Ar-onio de LEON

Ma-ZO SEJIA RICARD

[aka: RICART)

470

OS FILE, IF ANY, AND COMMENTS

No Office of Security traces

regarding all variations.

Probably identifiable with

Donald L. NESS, State Depart-

ment. RSO in

Santo Domingo.

• No Office of Security traces.

No Office of Security traces.

No Office of Security traces.

Possibly identifiable with

Armando VALENZUELA RUIL,

SF#752 358. OA request by. ..

WH/ 3/

used due to significant

derogatory information

developed.

Possibly identifiable with

Sergio Artonio LOPEL DE LEON,

SF:740 227, who was apparently

Probably identifiable with

Marcio MEJIA RICART, CR to

SF#244 148 (Manuel Moises

LAMARCHE SALAS). In June

1960 latter advised FBI that

RICART was a Venezuelan active

in anti-TRUJILLO activities

and had visited Miami in April

to buy B-26's and weapons for

an attack on the Dominican

Republic; also advised that

RICART was an instructor at

Caracas University, was asso-

ciated with Director of Economic

3

SECHET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

• "

NAME GIVEN BY DE ARMAS

LUiS DESA SOTO

Felix MARTINEZ SUAREZ

OS FILE, IF ANY, AND COMMENTS

Development in Venezuela and

believed RICART may be a

Communist.

No Office of Security traces.

Possibly identifiable with

Felix Antonio MARTINEZ SUAREZ,

SF#242 302, who was Director

of El Mundo when a

Salavador ROMANI

Possibly identifiable with

Salvador Garcia ROMANI-ORUE.

SF$223 776:

files can-

-celed In January 1967. On

PRQ listed one Manuel ARTIME,

not further identified, as a

relative/friend/correspondent

in U.S.

5.

The possible identification (by either DE ARMAS or the

DGI) of those WH Division assets reflected above suggests that

their names were either known or suspected as CIA assets and were

thrown in with those individuals not identified above in an

effort to legitimatize DE ARMAS' claims to have worked for the

CIA. It should be noted that of those individuals listed above

on whom a security file exists, none appear to have any current

association with this Agency and, as far as can be determined,

no actual Agency operations were either exposed or threatened.

6. The above is provided for your information; no further

action in this case appears necessary.

Michael E. Schneeberger

Security Analysis Group

Att

SECRET

4

---

