# 104-10129-10101

## Page 1

104-10129-10101]

SORDET

EYES ONLY

8 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

FROM

: Michael E. Schneeberger

SUBJECT

: Philip B. F. AGEE

Exposure of CIA Personnel

DESCAN

15-1

Reference is made to the attached P&L RYBAT cable from

one in on for a core our i once be At Buring

that contact CASPER asked AGEE questions regarding the Kennedy

st ed Atly

assassination with specific interest relating to the involve-

ment of OSWALD and Cubans.

CASPER also queried AGEE regarding

personalities assigned

to the Mexico City Station in 1963, and

• AGEE provided CASPER with details regarding the Station's

surveillance capabilities and the functions of specific indi

viduals of interest to CASPER.

2. Regarding the individuals of interest to CASPER, the

following is a brief summary of pertinent information relating

to those individuals identified by AGEE to CASPER:

NAME LISTED IN CABLE

OS FILE NO. AND SUMMARY

BUSTOS, Charlotte

FREDERICK, William

BUSTOS-VIDELA, Charlotte B.

SF#56 840; appears to be Chief

of Station at

since

June 1974, integrated State

cover.

Well known to AGEE

through assignment to Mexico

City, July 1967-August 1972.

FREDERICK,

Division Ops Officer who was

dismissed due to improper

handling of Agency funds in

September 1966; may have

JECHET.

EYES ONLY.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472

г/р/

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET

EYES ONLY

Joe (or

SCOTT, Winston

WHITE, Allan

nixises

...:"

DILLON,

Paul

assisted AGEE in his Inside the

company Exposures include

"close

relationship with AGEE

and CIA Von A-Z. As of June

1972 Subject was employed by

U. S. Department of Labor,

Bureau of Labor Statistics.

103

NMN, SF#32 953;

IOTHET LA DIVISion Case Officer

who retired 30 January 1970.

Assigned to Mexico, 1960-1965.

Exposed in Who's Who in CIA

and CIA von A-7.

Former Chief of Station at

Mexico City Stationdied Circa

1959-1969;

retired July 1969,

1973. Exposed in

Who's Who in

CIA,

CIA

Von A-Z, and mentioned

numerous times in AGEE's book.

WHITE, Alan Perine, SF#28 700;

former DDO/OPS/ITG

employee who

retired 31 July 1975; assigned

to Mexico City,

1963-1967 as

Deputy Chief of Station; exposed

in CIA Von A-Z and Who's Who in

CIA.

SF#57 626;

former Chief/Training Resources

Group/DTS who retired 30 June

1973; was assigned to Mexico

1965-69.

Former security interest

due to friendship with BOOTS.

CIA Von A-Z.

0136

DILLON, Paul Leo, SFH43 334; 12-22

currently a Case

Officer at

assigned to Mexico City

as Chief of Soviet Ops, 1965-

1969.

, Exposed. in CIA Von A-z,

listed in AGEE book, identified

in October 1974 Bridgeport,

Connecticut, Post, and known to

Communist Party, May 1976.

8/PV

2

ЗЕСПЕТ

EYUS ONLY

---

## Page 3

14-00000

VOGLE,

Don

HAUSMAN, Cynthia

STEELE, Robert

310202388

07

[RAMIDES, Dan?

07

[RAMIDES, ZO0K]

CHUGHES, Frank?

7/80

(

SECHET

EYES ONLY

VOGEL, Donald Frederic, SF#55 277;

currently Deputy, Chief of Station

at

was

assigned to Mexico City, 1967-71

as DC/SB/CIG. Exposed in Winter

1975 CounterSpY, listed in AGEE

book, identified in October 1974

Bridgeport, Connecticut, Post,

and Who's Who in CIA.

HAUSMANN, Cynthia Joy, SF#61 423;

currently assigned to

CI Staff/

REA; assigned to Mexico City,

1965-67.

cut, Post, and listed in AGEE

book.

STEELE, Robert Hampton, SF#230 069;

SB Case Officer

who resionec

July 1968 to run for U.S. Congress

from Connecticut (successful); was

assigned to Mexico City, 1966-68.

Listed in AGEE book and

October

1974 Bridgeport, Connecticut, Post;

numerous publicity since election

to Congress.

SF#188 141;

FOrmer WH Case Ofticer who resigned

February 1969; was assigned to

Mexico City, 1966-69.

Exposed

CIA Von A-Z and listed in AGEF.

SF#100 937;

tormer OTR instructor who

retired

June 1972. Listed numerous times

in AGEE book:

SF#57 626;

TOrmeT CI Staff Branch Chief who

retired in June 1973.

Exposed in

Quicksilver Times, August-September

1969 article.

3

SECRET

EYAS ONLY

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

EYES' ONLY

3. Office of Security indices reflected no traces in

the name of Ron CASPER, The Washington Post correspondent who

was in contact with AGEE.

However, it is believed' that CASPER

may be identifiable with Ronald KESSLER, who was mentioned in

the Press Credibility security file (#610 955) as a Washington

Post journalist who won the George Polk Memorial Aware in

February 1973.

4. The foregoing is provided for your information. No

further action appears necessary at this time except for

dissemination of this memorandum to interested Agency officials.

Michael E. Schneeberger

Security Analysis

Group

Att

EYE.

4

SECRET

ONLY

---

