# 104-10126-10078

## Page 1

104-10126-10078

...

June 15, 1978

HSCA

0C #78- 2112/3

BIDd

NOTE FOR

FROM

SUBJECT

:

:

:

The Director

Haviland Smith

The HSCA Investigation of the Mexico City Station

1. The memorandum from Scott Breckinridge, attached hereto, dated

15 June, addresses only one aspect of our problem with the hscA.

In the

fall of this year, the HSCA will prepare a report for the Congress which will

bre acle to contest it successfully either with the committee or perhaps even

in the Courts, will contain sensitive information, the revelation of which

will be very damaging to ouryinterests in Mexiço.

Not only will this report

provide evidence.ofu

activity in Mexico. City, which

(activities)

but it wilT also l

T24, o8

The best example of this, but not the only

example, is their telephone tap activity, the evidence from which will be

an integral part of the AScA's conclusions.

2. Mexico City is a focal point for Soviet intelligence operations

against the continental United States.

There is a long, documentable history

of Soviet activities basedain Mexico being run inte our Country.

The relation-

ship that

Jis a critical ingredient

in our abiTity to protect ourselves against these Soviet intelligence acti-

vities a You will recall that the Boyce-Lee case was brought to our attention

the Mexican government. If, as we suspect, the Conmittee

publishes, the kind of information spelled out above, the result on this

will be disastrous.

It will seriously weaken our

ability to protect our country from Soviet intelligence activities.

3. We believe that the issues raised by Chairman Stokes in his letter

to you affords an excellent opportunity for you to underline to him some of

the problems which are inherent in an ultimate declassification and publica-

tion of the sensitive information they have gleaned from our files on general

intelligence activities in Mexico City.

This may not prove to be helpful

in dampening the ardor of the HCSA staff, but it most certainly will put

them on notice that the course they are taking will have direct repercussions

not only on CIA activities in Mexico City, but on our bilateral relations

with that country.

T

19996

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

