# 104-10216-10185

## Page 1

104-10216-10185

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

HOB

TO

& DIRECTOR

31

FROM : PARIS

INT

1 68

IOS

EFTS

SI

SB

T0G

EF.

SEC

CA

HH

NS

ACTION, DC/WH/SA 3

INFO

DOP,

SE C

VR

R

ET

1910437

ALIENS

file-

DIR CITE PARI 4196

• DESEKSITIZEDYPIC YOBITE AMLASH

19 HA 64M 88015

REF: DIR 0A462 PARA ONE

.10.16 MAY UNSNAFU 13 RECEIVED LETTER FROM AWLASH I ADDRESSED TO

MADAME EMILITA

PARIS 13. LETTER

MAILED FROM PRAGUE WITH NO RETURN ADDRESS 14 MAY IT GIVEN OPENED

TO GLOADEN BY UNSNAFU 5 FROS UNSNAFU 9 MAY 1%

2.

UNDATED LETTER WRITTEN ON ONE SIDE & BY 11 INCH WHITE PAPER®

SMALL INK DOT IN UPPER RIGHT. HAND CORNER. ADDRESSED "ESTIMADA

EMILITA". SIGNED IN WHAT SEEMS BE TRUE FIRST NAME.

TRANSLATION AS FOLL:

-"I AM WRITING TO YOU AT THIS ADDRESS BECAUSE I DO NOT HAVE THE

7 NEW ONE SINCE

YOU DID NOT SEND IT TO ME BUT I KHOW THAT YOU MOVED

AND ARE VERY WELL (ESTABLISHEDS WITH YOUR YOUNGEST. I RECEIVED

j. SOME THINGS THAT ENRIQUE SENT ME ALTHOUGH NOT THE MEDICINE FOR:

WHICH I ASKED HIM. IT SEEMS THAT YOUR RUFFIAN OF A HUSBAND

FORGOT IT. THE STOCKINGS ARE VERY PRETTY EUT NOT AS GOOD AS I

TWISHED. (PARAGRAPH) SUMMER HAS NOW ARRIVED ON OUR BEAUTIFUL ISLAND

SECKCI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN_ 36017_PAGE 2

AND IT IS TERRIBLY NOT. THE GOOD THING ABOUT IT IS THAT VE GO TO

THE BEACH EVERY WEEKEND AND ENJOY NATURE VERY MUCH. I HOPE THAT YOU

WILL COME TO SPEND SOME DAYS WITH US AND ENJOY CUR BEAUTIFUL

BEACHES WHICH YOUR HUSBAND, WHO LIVED ON THEM BEFORE, LIKES SO

AMUCH. : I BELIEVE THAT HE WAS MORE OFTEN IN THE WATER THAN ON LAND.

(PARAGRAPH' THINGS HERE ARE PROGRESSING SINCE WE ARE WORKING RATHER

A LOT AND HARD (WITH FIDEL AS ALWAYS SETTING THE EXAMPLE AND ALWAYS

STIMULATING THE PEOPLE. HE 1S A REAL LEADER. (PARAGRAPH) WELL

DONT BE FALSE AND WRITE. GREETINGS."

.: 3o

POUCHING LETTER 20 MAY AS NOT CERTAIN OF OUTCOME PARA TWO

PARI- 1546 ARRANGEMENTS.

SECRET

SECRET

---

