# 104-10186-10044

## Page 1

104-10186-10044

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The entertal cuntains isformation alectins the National Deten ol the Chital frain milita the mennine of the lepial de LamI

S"E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT

Direccion General de Inteligencia

DATE DISTR

(DGI) Personnel Abroad

CSCI-316/02286-65

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE OF

1964

INFO

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. (Harchi-1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS LINEVALUATED INFORMATION SOUNCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF - CONTENT IS TENTATVE.

SOURCE

• former cuban Is officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

d.

The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon

sibility for physical or other security of the Cuban Embassy or

Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

The DGI would not use a regular foreign-service officer in the

field because he has not been cleared and briefed and is not,

therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks.

foreign-service officer is briefed, it may be assumed that he

has been cleared and that he is thereafter considered a member

of the DGI (at least by the DGI).

On returning to Havana per-

manently, such a foreign-service officer briefed for a field

assignment normally would be sent to DGI Headquarters rather

than to the Nints. y of Foreign Relations.

5

2

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

TARAY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO *

(Noto: Field distributon Indicated by * #*)

I NAVY

_I&VS

INSA

IFBL

INFORMATION RERORT

SINFORMATION REPORT

ANCYCH

NHC/10

CI, R&A

WHC/ RE

- 20-₴

ITE

3IE

IL/HASH

LX-2482

NP (ANNCG-1)

WHC OS

RID/AN

CSCI-316: 02286-

WHC WAY'E L

ICOOADIMATING RELE

TOTALAWHIC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

61A180M #

70-11-04

3

---

