# 104-10186-10105

## Page 1

104-10186-10105

SINFORMATION RERORT HINFORMATION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORFIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT

Policy Gutdanen Directives for

Cuban Intolligence Representatives

in El Salvador.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CS-311/06085-64

19 November 1964-

8

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF

INFO.

1963

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. JUr 1:96-9

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquartors Comment.

The following Is a translation of a docu

men: which Scurce

provided containing the policy guidance direc

The MA Depart-

ment no longer exists as

such, having been divided into two

Illogal Department (Ilegal) and National Libara-

ticn Department (Liberacien Nacional

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION

COUNTRY: EE SALVADOR

I'PERATIVE:

1. Collective action.

2. Nationas Liberation Novement.

3. Armed Forces of El Salvador.

1. The Salvadoran Cormunist Party.

5. Repressive organications and CIA.

6. Domestic politicai iife.

7. Training camps and counterr-volutionary operating bases.

8. Counterrevoiu! sonary organizations.

9. Movement of soildarity with Cuba.

4

3

2

1

S..E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I AIR

I NSA

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPCIACLANT

CINCSO #

¡Mosa: field distribution indicald by "#".)

I NAVY

I&VS

I XIA

I OcR

portioned

TFBI

2

HINFORMATION REPORTE

INFORMATION REPORT

LT= 1959

SP (ANMUG-1)

CS-311/06085-64

¡For DIstraLALIOn Sao Agrached PaRe

CI/IS

12111Or AF/OSIl

TOTALS IE 3, C1 21, RIDIAN 1, HH'SA $6151

96'8: 9124;

10/08

FBI, DIA - 2 SCOOTINGT

A $1906

RAO RWT

---

## Page 2

WH/COPS

WH/PO/A

WII/PO/B

WH/2

WH/3

WH/3/V

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

• WH/SA/MOB

WH/SA/R

WH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff

CI Liaison

CI/REA

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AP/4

AP/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/ JKO/ JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/NA/I

NF/5/P

NE/6/C&I

NE/Intel

WE/ 1

WE/2

S-E-C-H-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 10

WE/3

WE/4

WE/S

1

WE/DC

WE/R

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

Flold Dissem

WH/MEXI

WH/MNTY

WH/MRID

C5-311/06085-64

5

4

1

30

1

99

poll fad pred flood food pout proud pred

And ES toast

799

WIL/SA/WAVE

5

1

1

1.

1

Liaison Dissem

LEI

TE.

L./ WASH

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 2-

CS-311/06085-84

10. Position of the political partles tonard the Cuban Revolution.

11. Relations with the United States of America.

12. The Church.

13. Internal situation of the armed forces..

INPORTANT:

data on

Its members and

15. News broadcasts and press.

NECESSARY:

16. Structure of the government and operation of its agencies.

17. State of the national economy.

LINES AND OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION

COUNTRY:

SALVADOR

IMPERATIVE

1. COLLECTIVE ACTION

Political or military agreements of the regional Latin

merican organizations against Cuba in which the govern.

ment of El Salvador participates-

b.

Meetings of the regional organizations intended to take

measures against the Cuban Revolution.

Places where they are held.

C.

d.

e.

Reasons for holding the

were held.

Subjects discussed.

Agreements

adopted against Cuba.

Military mobilization and concentration of Latin American

for the same.

in these movements.

f.

h.

ticipate in the

discussed and agreements adopted.

carry them out.

Penetrate the orcanizations and agencles of a regional

type which

are based

El

Salvador, especially the CDCA

and the ODECA.

Measures taken on travel to or from Cuba.

Possibilities of a break with Cuba by countries which now

reiations.

S_E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3=

CS-311/06085-64

2. MOVEMENT OF NATIONAL LIBERATION

b.

Development of plans for the insurrectional struggle.

Role of the leftist forces.

The F.U.J.R.: Its members,

directors, organization, media for conbat. Degree of

participation by the mass organizations:

workers, peasahts,

students, and other strata (women, professionals, intellect-

Overt organizations:

number and function, leadership,

organization,.

degree of participation in the national

liberation movement.

d. Repressive activities against the forces of the left.

•. Possibility of contacts with the Guatemilan guerrilias and

others of Central America.

1. Propaganda media of the leftist forces.

$. Permanent contact with the Communist Party and the F.U.A.R.

Constant information on their position toward Cuba,

and the

political and economie changes which have occurred here.

3. ARMED FORCES OF EL SALVADOR

a.

Organization of the armed forces. Units and strength.

Principal chiefs of the same.

b. Appropriations for the armed forces. Appropriations to

each branch.

C.

Secret bilateral agreements with the United States. Yankee

advisers in the various branches of the armed forces.

Activities and functions of the same. Type of instruction

or training which they give.

d.

Participation of the armed forces in the activities of the

Units and strength of the sane which participate in

the latter's actions.

Stationing of these forces.

3. Guerrilla and anti-guerrilla training received in the army.

Units and strength of the same which participate in the

san Specur truens train they an is used

Manuals used in the

4.

THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF EL SALVADOR

-..=

• a. Position toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

: b. Position on Cuban-Soviet relations.

c. Position on the line followed by Cuba in the national and

international political order.

d.

Fosition in reiation to the disagreezents in the Communist

International movement:

In the case of China and the USSR.

In the

case

of Albania and the Issr.

In the Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albanian question.

In the peace problem.

In relation to peaceful coexistence.

C--H-1

NO FOREIGN DISSES

---

## Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES

-4=

CS-311/06085-64

e.

Domestic situation in the party:

state of unity

Disagreements.

Strength.

Relations of the Communist Party with other leftisk forces:

Role within the F.U.A.R.

State of unity with these forces.

Disagreements.

&- Methods of strussle adopted officially by the party!

h. Participation of the party in insurrectional preparation.

i demonstrationese seression a test Caba.

Capacity to hold active

J. Needs of the Communist Party in El Salvador.

• Role which the party plays regarding the unification

entral American parties with a view to the developmei

of the guerrilla movement.

1. Publicity media of the Communist Party of El Salvador.

m.

Relations of the Communist Party o el Salvador with the

bourgeois parties.

n.

Maintenance of close contacts with the Connunist Party of

El Salvador.

5.

REPRESSIVE BODIES AND CIA

a. Repressive bodies which operate in the country.

Chiefs of

the same.

Functions of each.

them.

Activitles carried out by

Objectives of the repressive bodies.

b.

Coordination existing between the ational repressive

organizations

and others of the area. Plans and objectives

of the same.

C.

Meetings of the repressive bodies in the area.

Date, place

and names of

the meeting.

IGREEMENTS ADOPTED IN THE SAM

AGAINST CUBA AND THE NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT.

d.

Measures dictated to execute the agreements. Date of

inception.

e.

Foreign advisers in the repressive bodies (Yankees), their

names,

charges, and functions.

Cases in which they have

acted.

f. Plans and objectives of the CIA in the country and the area.

The national CIA network and persons who operate for it.

Charges and functions.

h. Counterrevolutionarg persons who work with the repressive

bodies and the cIA

in the country.

Vanes, charges,

functions of the sane. Cases in which they have acted.

S-E-C-R-F-T

10 FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/06085-64

1. Contrets with the Interpol. Coordination existing with the

sane.

Restrictive measures on travel to Cuba.

Agents.

6. DOMESTIC POLITICAL LIFE

leaders, data on the same, programs,

• b.

c.

Relations of the bourgeois political parties: relations

with the national oligarchy,

with the u.S.

nonopolles and

the U,S, Embassy, with the churches, and the Honduran Arnod

Forces.

Anti-Communist campaigns: arguments, attacks on Cuba,

leaders.

d. The fascist gangs: their organization, membership, leaders.

their relations

and the U.S. Embassy.

1.

activitles of the United States Embassy and of the armed

forces.

7. TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERATING BASES FOR COUNTERRETOLUTIONARIES

b.

Information on the location of training camps which operate

in Salvadoran territory.

Number of counterrevolutionaries.

Type of training and duration of the same.

instruction.

Transportation media.

Plans for attack, dates

and targets, penetration of the existing camps.

Pinpointing of operating bases for counterrevolutionaries

who will oporate in Salvadoran territory.

Their characteristics.

Available transportation

Persons at the head of these organiza

tions who participate in them.

Plans and objectives of

their attacks. Dates of the same.

Penetration.

8. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

a. Delegations of counterrevolutionary organizations which

Activities

they develop.

political parties.

Documents of the same organizations.

b.

Campaigns conducted by these persons in El Salvador.

National organizations from which they obtain support for

them.

Methods used.

c. Communications of the counterrevolutionary organizations

with

their centers in the United States, (Miami) and

Cuba.

Through which persons they are established.

Nethods

used.

₫.

Contacts by the counterrevolutionaries with the lankee

Embassy.

• Activities

which they carry on in coordination

with

the

same.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

---

## Page 7

S-E-C-R-I-T

NO FOREIGY

PISSES

- 6

CS-311/06095-64

e.

decupations

in which they ace legally.

Businogs and other

activities In'which they are engaged.

Illegal activities

developed.

VOVEMENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

s. Leirn the structure of the morement of solidarity with Cuba.

B.

arn the possibilitles of active demonstrations of sol

rite with Cuba which the anaressive orcanizations hav

10. POSITION OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION

a. Toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

D.

Regarding the relations in matters which affect Cuba and

world peace.

Regarding accusations that Cuba is a base of Communist

asgression against the American continent.

11. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

a. The Alliance for Progress.

b. Relations with loan organizations in the United States.

The cats she as less person sador an ones

officials;

their activities.

the varlous departments of the seate (of El Salvador).

d. The "Peace Corps", Its activities.

e. Participation of the Armed Forces of El Salvador in the

academies

of the "special forces" of the United States of

America.

Participation of the United States Army In the "Civic Action"

organization.

(Delegation of Uniten States military person

nel to teach

the native army hor to instruct the peasants,

natives, and so forth in public health,

school construction,

to win their sympathy): their activities, their

political and military influence.

Unitod States military aid: role of the liS. Military

Massion.

h.

Political influence of the monopolies: means of ideological

penetration.

s. Cultural agreemones: scholarshi, plans.

Plans to

develop tourism.

exc..

12.

THE

CHURCH

b.

Ecclesiastical hierarchy: personai data, organization.

Influence on the education of the country.

S-E-C-R-F-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

---

## Page 8

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-7=

CS311/06085-64

Relations of the Church with Untted States plans for the

country (with tho Alllance for Progress,

the Peace Corps),

With the Salvadoran Armed Forces, with the remaining

religlous organtzations.

d. Position or relations between the native and foreign

clergy.

• Participation of the Catholic Church in the domestle policy

of the

country.

Campaigns of the Catholic Church.

1. Arguments of the Catholic Church against Cuba.

13.

INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES

Intornal situation to the army.

Divisions into groups.

Control exercised by them inside the army. Social compost-

tion of the armed forces.

b.

Corruption in the army.

C.

Activities of lascist groups in the army.

Anti-Communist

current.

Relations with civilian organizations of a fascist

nature.

IMPORTANT

14. OPERATIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE.

DATA

ON ITS MEMBERS, AND ON THE ACCREDITED DIPLONATIC CORPS IN THE

COUNTRY

a. The U.N.

b.

The Organization Of American States and the Inter-American

Defense Board.

Officials in and of the Latin American countries.

Data and

operation of the foreign service.

f.

the country.

15. THE PRESS AND RADIO BROADCASTS

a.

Data on newspaper

oth inside on

b. The clandestine press.

existing

c.

The Official Bulletin or an equivalent publication in the

country.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 8 -

CS-311/06085-64

NECESSARY

16. STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND OPERATION OF ITS AGENCIES

a. Relations betweon the prosidency and the ministries.

D. Data on the outstanding officials of the government.

C;-

The congress; outstanding personalitles.

Relations of

the covernmont with the U.S. Embassy and the u.s.

monopolies.

The judicial power; personalitles who occupy the highest

posts, important laws,

17.

SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WHO WILL INFORN ON THE STATE OF THE

NATIONAL ECONOMY

New economic policy of the United Fruit Company.

The

possibility of changes in the economic policy of the

other U.S. monopolies.

Econonic plans:

farn and Ilvestock, and industrial.

New U.S. investments.

C.

Level of unemployment and consequences connected with the

overpopulation of the country.

toward the Alliance cor progresses ments, nature, position

Progress.

Non-United-States capital and investments existing in the

country and their influence.

1. The relations of El Salvador in view of Central American

economic integration.

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1t..et....—m..

---

