# 104-10186-10271

## Page 1

104-10186-10271

RMATKONAREPORT

MINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

interial contains informalan aãerling the National Defens of the Calleu Stateo within the meanine de 1e Bankerano laws. TIL

. U8C. Bore 193 and 194. tho lanalenion of perelalion of which la any mannes to an unauthorleed perta le errorlbsted by lau

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

COUNTRY Cub'a

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316:00697-64

SUBJECT Jose Autonio GARCIA Lara

DATE DISTR. 27 Argust 1964

NO. PAGES 4

REFERENCES

3/50

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

RACE & Wasrington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. AUKUS" 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAl OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: a tirmer Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

iscceligence Service until Arrai 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by

the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of

this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports withour

first checking with this Agency.

•aka "NIro, "ldentified a photoresph of Jose Antonio GARCIA Eura,

a Cuban Intelligence Officer of the Direceton

General du Intellgoncia (Goncral Directorate of Intollarence

DGI? in Mexico.

He is the

13,

14,

Headouarters Comments:

A report dated 17 January 1962, from three intested sources.

stated that Antonio Garcia was

one of severit Cuban 0-4

now (January 1962) 10 Mexico and plauning to go

to the United States.

2.

A fairly

stated

that Jose Antonio

reliable source",ico" GARCIA Lara

In a report dated 22 Maj' 1962,

is assigned

to the commercial office of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

ilty, however, he does little work for inis section.

He

1S & member of the Cuban G-2 and an opporcunist i1th &

very bid reputation.

5

4

SECRET

3

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

2

2

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANE

riote field dispribution indeeled by ""$")

I NAVY

CINCSO *

i AIR

I&NS

INSA

1 XX

I OCR

TFBI 2

VINFORMATLON ERERO RI

Mi SAMOB,

1, HE/S/R

MEL MADR

1l CI/LIA

2-CL/R&A

INE

ORM

TIONARERORT

3

IF

LIWASIL

-LX-16-13

NO PROJECTIANVUO

1)

•CSC1-316. 00091-61

WHATE

TOTALS

Wii/SA 7. (1),

RID'AN_

WE 1 (2), CIS.,

RID 1

---

## Page 2

5.

so thies blist

• .

it lasted

Commercial airiend da deside

GARCIA is idled, married

editoriely

side connede.

Dead' bible

lis

1+N0144209

ail coile

is

M5100.

he°

that CistRo dat eilliled ly

CommunIStS

aled

Bood. and thil Cola si an las snage.

GARC1A 1:a5

a sister wio

1s

* Nin

In the Giated Sides.

1i8 it.

20 Juns 1902 topor: thas some saurce positivaly delalad

GARCIA ds a cuban 5-2 159:1

Di Mesica air indica

1ãs close friend

of ossens CIEStiEGOS and Manor. PINEIRO,

Depasy Chaset of 0-2.

On I July 1962. a usually

rollable source gave the following

biographic Information on Antosa& GARCIA Lar.:

GARCIA, a di-D Egon! Noring in Mexico, artired in

Metico in early May 1902

as the commoreral dissole of the

Caban Embassy.

He is a close frlend of Osman CIENFUEGOS,

MATUel PINFIPO, and Remor. CLINCA.

GARCIA

1s a tigro;

teet

tall.

170 pounds,

and is marries a

§1I]

named Nelly.

He belongs 1o the Juvenrud

Autentren and

is knoan by the pseudonym NICo MARCIA.

He arrived

in Noxice witt specile instruetis

fron

CIENFUSCOS

recruit Mesican tochnicians

aid li provide.

them

with

wressary funds.

1° seems prubable inut this

1s only a buase and that the men are boong taion to Cabi

be trained as agitators.

GARCIA spends iLlalo

timo in his cifice,

bit is busy most of the diar tring

cont.10ta

on the strict.

Since he lived in deir tor i

yest ald a hall previously, lu inows a good dost about

the ceuntry..

He also

15

in contart with memters ot the

Spanish

and Mexican d'ommunist Parties and sith

tudents

01

leftist affiliations.

coliable source witt tood contacts

In the Cuban Embarisy

1I HONION CARY GOVE

the polioning information on

ARIUNLO CANCIA

the report was dited 13 July 1962:

Antonio CARelA Lara, Cormorcial Aliade dl ine Culan

arrised in Mexico on 21 Aprii 1962.

Bolere coning to doxico, CaRilA beid amportait rositions

with

die cabad governmeer ¿n Maoana.

He worked for the

Minasiry of Agriculture

and the Ministry of F.blar works

(MINOR).

CIRCIA is a nonbei of the Cuban 6o2 lot d1d 10r.

attend the ruban 6-2 school.

He did atrond the diplomatic

SEB.

•O FOREIGN DISSE!

---

## Page 3

6.

7 .

8.

9.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

-3 =

assigned to Mexico before he

was graduated. One

of GARrIA's duties in Mexico mas to a551s: the Cuban Embassy

haring rochnacal experts t0 k0

to Cuba.

Ho was also to handle

commercial matiers and unvestigate

manspulation o! $200,000

(U.S.) In connection with the purchase of automobile parts,

cameris. ere.

An unknown source, in a report

daid 25 July 1962. said that Jose

Antonio GARCIA Lara.

the Cuban Commercial

Attache in Mexico.

GARCIA was born about 1929. His mother,

is sorenty-s1x

years old.

in Habana, his father is deceased.

three sisters,

one finu! GARCIA

is a Nun living in the

In i960 to Marla Biena LARIA Baluja (whire), they bave one

the other too live in Habana. GARCIA was married da

Tatiana, and are expecting nother

His brother-in-law,

Hec:or Ramon LARIA Baluja, resides at 305 West 98th Street.

Apartment number 6051, New

York City.

GARCIA was previously

emplojed by the Army G-2 (with wnich

he is no longer affallated,

according to him!. Ministry of Agrleulture and the Ministry of

Ourispubliens.

le has a secondary

senod! educatson and attended

tha 'Escueric de Diplomacia," bui did not finish as he was transferred

to Mexico.

GARCIA entered Mexico in 1957 in exile and returned to

Cuba In 1959.

le arrived in Mexico

in his present capacity on

23 Apr1l 1962. His address 1s San Borja 1357. Col Del Valle,

Mexico, D. F.

In a 6 August 1962 report, from a usually reliable source, it was

silled :les Antonio GARCIA Lan

rotured to Mexico from Habana on

• Angus: 1962.

GARCIA told source tha: he returned to loxico

willi

orders to lake over the commercial activities from Ramon

CUENCA Montato.

A usuaily reliable source.

in a report dated 20 Anvember 1962,

staied that jose Antonio GARClA Lara, his wife and their

cheldren were leaving Mexico for Mabara on 20 Jovember 1962 via

Cubana Airlines, GARCIA planned o stay

in Habana approximately

A reported dated 27 Vovember 1962 stated that GARCIA

actually left Mexico on 23 November 1962.

Jose Antonio GARCIA Lara, according to a

usually reliable source

in a report dated 24 Januars 1963. arrived In Mexico from Habana

on 21 January 1963.

10. In a report dated 16 April 1963.

from a usually reliable source.

was stated

that Jose Antonio CARCIA Lara, passport number 62-213.

and his wife left Mexico on 15 April 1963 for Habana.

GARCIA

NO FOREGR

CRET

DISSEM

---

## Page 4

SO TURFIN DISSEN

24

That too?

1a01e51°

Lottearnes

rectitle de. Haband.

al. A lorio intrable sourer.

in a report datoo in segremor 1063.

Cuhin Embassy on Maries city.

He also stated that Antorio

GARilA, aba "dico," à siang legro, romained ar ple Embassy. GARCIA

as a tormer mombor of the surested Aurentico, d opportanist.

and 1l as sald that die is a member of the cuban Irrellarse Service

in Mexico.

12. An ariast. dated 12 O'cuter 1963.

rovoaled that lose A. CARClA

Larie, aplomadle passpür: number

02:213, arraord an desai: City

from Habana.

13. A usually roliable source reported that on 8 March 1968. dose

Antonio GARCIA Lara indi sexier City lor Habana.

He returned to

Mexico Caty on 29 March iod.

14. JUSO AntONDO GARCIA Lara, scrording lo a usually coltablo sourer.

artired in ladrid on the night of

25 Hay 1964.

15. A usually rollable source roported on 21 June 1961. Pail GARCIA

Lara is under transfer orders do Habana.

On 3 lily 1061, 1t was

reported that GARClA ard his tamily loft Moreco Caly tor lebana

on 2 Juis 1961, and nad

leti totore they had finash pacsing

which was being complered to their

made GARClA hod an intollagenre

escort up to the time

16. A usually reliable source.

in a report dated 9 doly loot, idled

that persons inquiring do GARCIA Lara on 3 uly 1961,

by Cantlo DOMEVECH. 01

16 Cuban Embassy,

that GikCId had to leave

because or dilness, that a grrind Di Met Mad Doo Green reled.

chat he sould have to romain in bed. and that te cord his idole

family woth him sance he suld bo away for some tan.

ALVAREZ, also of the Curai Embassy, told source this GaRcll lott

un a porsanen: transfer.

SECRET

FOREIGN

DISSEN

---

