# 104-10186-10192

## Page 1

104-10186-10192

MINFORMATION REPORTa

SINFORMATIONAREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRYCuba

SUNECT RaUl GONZALEZ (allas 'Olexi")

REPORT NO

CCI-316/00627-65

DATE DISTR • 10 February 1965

NO. PAGES

RETURN TO CIA

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

DATE OF

Background Use Only

INFO.

1964

Do Not Reproduce

§ July 1964)

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPEASAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE. former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Commente

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees sake no action

first checking with this Agency.

DGI). He previously worked with the Union de Jovenes Comunistas

GONZALEZ,

who is Caucaslan, was born about 1913, or 1945.

He is five feet seven

inches tall,

weighs 145 pounds, and has

dark brown hair.

He resides at Calle 30, No.

307, Vedado,

habana, Cuba; his telephone number is 33161.1

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable infornation

on Raul GOVZALEZ.

4

3

2

5

$

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

CISCLANT

NAVY

CINCSO #

AIR

JANS

INSA

I FBI 2

(Note: field distribution Indirated by "#".)

INFORMATION REPORT INPORMATLON REPORTE

LICELIA

2/CI/REA

LILIE

_LY 2290;UFUA 19020

JUIE

= (Q9 Dec. G-1)

G4tae4

WILISAR

1ILS4:G1

11

WH/SA 8

• NO PROJECT (ANMId/I)

C0-16-000265

CONDINATING:

(1),

WE 1 (2), Cl 4, RID 1

10865074

---

