# 104-10177-10238

## Page 1

104-10177-10238

DPO?: 11 June 193%, "lAlaaa, Cuba

A # 12 117 779 - N011153 entered de U.S. as a Cuban

refugee ne 11aa1, F1: 20 far 65.

"e was a sel-iad-itted

Lorner G-2 ascal, Ir. te lai. 1s 61-52 he beca.

a leader la the anti-Castro group Commandos Libres.

Of'er info. In 61 sented C'at he was a possible 6-2

agent who had Infiltrated anti-Castro movement in

Miaal, Fla.

Granted POA 18 Mar 64 for use as radio operator

and leader for PM InfIltration Leam.

Operated under N0C eff 1 May 64 at $200. mo.

On grasted 17 May 64.

Termirated 26 Au, 64 - never used in Agency sponsored

mission..

Reason:

security giolation. MORALES

made several atterpts to find out about a JAVE/rM i

op going as far as contacting wivis of agents already

comnitted o= ops.. HOT recormended for re-usc.

TOO

"wise" and not too clever for own good. MORALES was

warmed to stay away from known op contacte of Agency

interest.

He was re-recruited by SOD Sent 64 for

MATS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN as pilot in Coato but never served this erpacity.

Project

APPROVID FOR RELEASE 3.

ON 4029-4 MORALES sigaed a releasing agreement with Agency

15 Dec 64.

Seems that Agency curned MORALES over to Mi in

1969 and has had no co-tact with him since then.

The FBIhas had an Irterest In PORALES since 1953

'TATS DOCUMENT HAS BRENWheR the FBT used MORALER as a prosecution withess

APPROVED FOR TELEASE Dysaiast Orlaado Rose et al arrested with BOSCHl.

_ ON LAPR 94 MORALES tOld aL

Station ssset in Mar 72 that

as sanitized

he was employed by the FBI and recd salary of U.S.

$700 month and was en route to Colombia on drug

case at that tine.

MORALES 1s not listed in the

IIX ISR source registry and I do not know what 11

any current association he has with FbI.

In 72 MOPALES claimed to Caracas asset that he was

In touch wich Cri but we unable to substaztiate claim

so apparently it untrue.

The say lt leaks to me is this:

also may be Fel source

Is. not CIt source

There is rel thre 'prulEr 1e li, CITIZe: Shie! 1

Aguo not bris able to co: ling at this goint.

A Tel l's able polne to locate sentes hola a tep.

of 6r4:00.

donate like

a cover ore but al this

---

