# 104-10229-10427

## Page 1

104-10229-10427

3: 0.4.

Vocational rohasilication

Stato of Florida

July 8, 1964

PSYCHOLGICAL, FLUTICY

chio subject has beon coon thore times at tan Isychological Servico

On April 9, 1954,

we had a lons. incerview wich his in wich

rocoivod cho InT and a Frco Ascoclation Test, ucina a

that was ocpecially proporod for him.

on that date, he proaloed

to coño back to bring a 11ae that he had made or all his solzures

ainco Septembor 1942 up to the prosont eine, wich an indication of

the enotional probleme that ho had on the daya ho was sick.

This

11st was brought, by him, so our offico on June 30, 1964.

Renson for Consulention.

To try to dotormino lI thore wore any paychologieal factors inclu

encing this

subject"s epiloptle colzuros.

Results of Psycholo-Ical Invocairation

•In a Cano such as this, It lo obvious chat orzanic faccors aro tho

main dotorminant of tho pacionto dience, but from the Interview.

and cho teste, we recoivod the Improssion that the patlent's cotion:

al coace has often playod a ecrtain tolo in crizzoring his colloptic

solzured. Paychothorapoutia creatment that would enablo this pa

tlent to gain better control of hia notions would obviously do bigh

ly beneficlal for him.

Intollicence

Thio subject was not formally toured in order to datcinino his 1o8g

cuc fron ho convorsation and from hio regrances to tho personality

costs, it is quito clear that he is a man endo-ed with a cupcrior

couse of hio

his brain surgery.

• no= fcasiblo to do co sinco his opcration had been dono just a few

wecks ago and the posoibility of some cransient effecca

of the sure

¿ical procodure niche still influence any results.

Howaves, from a

strictly clinical vicupoint, uhon comparins, tha cubject's reaction

boforo aná afror tho oporation, the amount of impairment produced

• by cho oparation does not sain to bo really considorablo, and, on the!

other hand, there le a remarkable docroaso in his anxiesy.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

July 8; 1754.

Sad been all f0° years,

•199:9 199.000.40

see ill..%

at dee $8020-8028

she sis loving and kind to him, but at tho sane time do:irecrir; and

•The first opileptic acizure of tho patienc

placo after an arcuomont with hia mothor wo threarenod to scold hit.

when the subfect was i6 yeard old, hn started treatnent which was

successiul for olovon goars.

Unfortunatoly, uhon ho was 27 ycars olde

at a tino choc ho was flchzing oralnot Batista's diccatorchip, do uas

identiliod as a conspirator and cont to jail. Thero ho was beaten

by cho polleo or guards in a reilly savago way and thig was tho be

Elaning of a now stago in his lifo in nich ha linquantly sulferad

fron opileptic colzuros. It lo imporcant to mine out chat chia ba

gan when tho pationt was tho object of an unjust asgroscion by auth

Tity figuros.

Among cho most imporcant paycholonical contlicco of the patient at

the prosont time, ve nocice the following:

B) . Tho coparation from hia parenta. It le obvious that cho

subject has ocill acrong ambivalent foclings toward his

paronts and specially toward his nother.

He hatca hor

. ovor protoccivenons and dominocring attitudes, but at cho

came tiro, ho feola sad about tho coparacion fron his {aai15.

b) Tho idoa of bolas limitad In I110 bocauso of his epilopsy.

This problem was vory doeply falt by the pationt slaco he

was a child, becauso a that timo hio nother used to restrain

him Inos having a normal boy'o 11fc duo co cho colzures.

was considorod as a boy with a vory bad temper and "seen

conctiacs by hie nolehborn at sono cort of a devil".

moand that the pationt doveloped very cerony apprecsive to

denclos as a traction to this frustracion.

Ac present the

paticat fools that choro are many goals in life thac he vill

navor bo ablo so roach bocnuso of hia discase.

concorning a profocaion and a euperior education

for instanco.

The paelent has had some fallures in love which woro very

tructrating for hia.

He han nover boon formally ongaged and

whon he approachos a girl he always has in mind cho ldoa that

ho cannot fool

woll with a woman that

would pity him for bis

---

## Page 3

14-00000

July 6, 1094i.

d). For several montho

tho

patient hoch od a co-on-law wilo, horo

In Mant, but 1t oncme chae ho has never bren ¿neply in love

with lace.

It lo sachor a mitar of box and compantonship.

•Novortholnad, ho often arauro with her bacauso cho lo a conle

nootin, person,

who "wanto to bo i mothor for him" core ol

cho patient's accont epilopele solzuros took plach aftor an

argucnent with here

•)

Tho polliical altuation in Cuba le another source of cuffers

1ns, for the patinnt, at lt 1o for all Cuban ox1l00.

however, Inportant to note that tho patients reactiona to

Datiora and Cantrole dictatorchips woro not only the rocult

of hlo patriorie foolings, but also tho exprocaion of hla

doeply rooted aggronaivonene againot all forma of unjuet

or unreasonable auchoritarlan bohavlor.

Joe I as anga

i: J000 I. Lacaga, Ph.D.

Clinical Psychologist

PSYQIOLOGICAL SERVICE CENTER

---

