# 104-10295-10053

## Page 1

104-10295-10053

EVALUATION OF SOURCE.

A Completely reliable.

pures el doubtial honesty er loyalty, regardless el hel competence.

D Mot asually re iable.

E: Not reliaste

(Appled ta

Renaserf canna be judded

Applied to emered or lanullicent

A: PRAISAL DE CONTENT.

: Condimed ty oiler independent and relaste sources. Zi Probablylue, 3: Possiblylue M: Doubitul. S. Protals

6: Cannol to judged.

Jocumentary: Based on original documect

* =

COUNTRY C/•Il0

SUBJECT

visit of Chlor l'octors

to

deodonarters of the bretido

Coma saln de Calle

REPORT NO.

-3292

DATE OF REPORI 12 Piay 1959

NO. OF PAGES One

REFERENCES

DATE OF. 11 05 1959

INFO.

surtlu o

PLACE & 11 : 9y 1959

DATE ACC

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE:

Tion-Chilean resident of Santiago (B). Appreisal of Cuntent: 2.

at 1l'0 iors, velterior ill. ii

to the renor let to soch to cholotos

tossete corntor of the

Tic trollo de ccion Purilur in the HiS! perilicralal clectlone,

Geco muried by o Cular urry chinin

and for Calan cirlilors,

melted the honogurters of tir Partido conuileta

(icch) in in.t1ogo.

Field Cornert. i

El Sirlo, newspaper of the POCh, on ll May reported the

return of ALiNDE from Benos Afres

erticle, were the following Cuban medical doctors:

resident of the

0c chat da nice to a d. Ta tong

Erresto (Ché) jUiVARA;

Ang 900 Pouted, e2,

Jose ALUPLE Sánchez,

speciel representative of the 26th 0

July lovement.

According

to el sinlo

DE. GUERRA was schedulea

to be at the Hosoital San Borja at 1100 horre. ed.

eagernes

Dr.) - CiT. Cubo. El Siple Newspapa, if Pach, on "

May 1959 recaled that July. drined. 's Sont aye

chile, foam B.A. Argentina in to compan, t

Salvador ALLENDE GOSSENS

281-578000.00

Headsuarters Cements/

Jose Argol B-DKK'T.: tas been described In

the rast as a vell-knoim particirant in front

activities of the Partido Socialista Pepular (PSP,

Cu: a Conqur. 1st Party).

Cr. CS-51005 and CS-15137

for previ us roperts on his Co- unist activities.

STr. Jose INP'Z Sanchez' name arpeared on a list

of du gn Comunists crapiled bi

the Burear for

the Repression o° Co murist ictivities

during the RiTI TV regine.

C5-9635E5

201-57118

201-0022396

-

pov.

CS COPY

---

