# 104-10071-10246

## Page 1

104-10071-10246

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

HOS

REPORT. COVER SHEET

HUNKELH

CONFIDENTIAL

REPORT NO.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

UFC 4062

DATE OF REPORT

as February 1064

RD. NO.

BROJ.

B'CE Ca.

BATA AM

INTEL DYVOUR

OBER-G Iros Alberto RODRIGUEZ Blanco (para 1)

and Plaoido BARBEITE (para 2).

See UFGA - 14078 10r 1010

RID:

Pla Index.

Croup 1: Excluded fron

Autosatic Downgroding

and Deolaneiiication

INTIBRASSONACY

Ego.

CO/C

Banto

Dopa, neo aux paud HDC

JABARE

ILLEO IN IP DUFLICATEO IN ACOOESPAMTUNRS REPENT

DIGTRIDUTION

ENTAAST

1 cy, each to Midal ropa:

Stato

P.B.I.

NO, 0F ENCLOOURES

tout: 201

MARIANY

APPE

#ot#

PADA

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

DOl

1467

4138

PREVIOUS

Entiem,

INDEX X

36-7-6

8928.

---

## Page 2

14-00000 ==

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

nadias trious+1 + 078-998

→ see de of seatsi

: 0-096911

OOMIDRITIAL

COMTROLLED DI 898U

ALFOR-NO

SUSICI

Proporationa by Bolando Arcadio

Palave

Becond Invaoson Attanne

07 E4121

JA'E OF REPORT

25 February 1964

NO PAGES

i

REFERENCES

DATE OF

11 Fobruary 1004

INFO

PLACE 8

DATE ACO US TOS 368603 312

PEE IN TA LORPORATO: SOURCE GHAD MES ANI

UFG 4662

AS A CONTIER IS TITA

SOURCE:

Former latin Anarican military officer who at one tina

ronided in Halt and the bominican lapubie.

Ho still

mintino foirl clone friondabipo with officials of those

countries.

Bourco le a triined reporter and hia information

ang bog rollablo in tho paat.

cording to Mort barias Blanco, a Cuban balle sho 1a

a confidant ol Rolando Arcadio

Zayao intondod to fly to Santo Domingo fron

on 16 Dobruary 198d as Inatructed by lauforrer

Balti fron Santo Domingo by Leon

* / Caban

elo tugar fochniclan, in connoction with Fanferror'a prepara-

Elong to back Cantave.

Masferrer, a woll-known Cuban arms

runner, bad providod

Cantave with

financial support for the

abortive Invasion of Haitt In aid-1963.

...

3-Doctadlnz to Placid labolta, soother ciosa irload al rayee,

Says was in llant recondly trying

to buy arms for Materter,

waich ho plannod to ship lo a location outaide the Unitod States

fer oventual uno by Cuntave in bia offorta to overthro Francols

Dawn ller.

1.

Field Comment:

It has been previously reported that

Basterrer has been negotiating

with leon Cantave in

another attempt to overthrow Francois Duvaller, using

Dominican territory as a base of operations.

PRETEN PERFUM AY.

---

