# 104-10213-10002

## Page 1

104-10213-10002 g

• ::

6013.1:1222

!!..: 9.

MINORADI POR: Degaty Eirlos (Plane)

STATECT

• Roleted MIDSIOn DITORITe for MeNdeO

Kexod: Attachod in the Forlood Releted kisulon Directive sor

8. Tour approval 10 rogueatod.

watchng

CONCURS

155o5, д

" : H. 51975

hayd targe

not 1 lich

ocal the late

8 Jermary 1961

Distributions

0r18&2-

PO

CA

01

SR

F/IT

• RI

APFROVED:

Fate Aproved

---

## Page 2

11.00000

RELATLD HISSIC: DERESTIVE PCS MEXICO

I. DELIERAL PROLISIONS

The leng-range nation. polloy objae-

A. Laves or tos Cas. Ocverment covara Mexico are to reduce

3, polloled. Parther guidarce 18 given

in the current CCB Regional Operationa Plan for Latin

The station's primary exphasia

ogerations and covert ection operationa againt the

sino-soviot bloa, Cuban, and Cominist elemente in lorico.

C.

Changes in the No.

The basse polley inatruction for

activities In Mexico has been revieed in light of the

station's last Annual Assesament of Preseas Report and

to refleit cure aocurately operational condition, onpa

bliitles a d diractlon.

In ries of the importance and

threat presented by compunlot cuba to U. s.

interosta 1n

Intin America, coverazo of Cutan revolutionary ectivities

in Maico has been sade a apocifio requirement under

Priority A.

Fricrity B objectives and tasks Irclude

rofirements ef dosired effors and alao providn for covers

•actien eperations agains: cuban cargots 1a varico.

The

forer task for productich of actlus pitures and lbolr

diatribution has been deletes, as 1t li no longor a vaila

requiresent; tho forger tanka pertaining to the possible

use of forolgn diplonata hare been cousined a tali to

develep young potential political leaders (ZREADER) bes

Leen added.

allainated, as thore 1a no established Moxican Intelli-

Benice servloe

Coverage of Chinese

Communists has been raised to friority B colneident with

the elimination of the former pricrity l section.

D. Contingency Reportini

In addition to the specifie

in Section II,

the Station will fren

timo to time be called ea to attenpt to satisfy Intalligene

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Guddea and Intelligence Diroctives, but lt Is expected

that these reguirerente be satisfied itlilaing extolira

unBoto. Of partsoniar Interest cu e continuing basla

18 Information on! (a) ery Indications tat lexico may

be used as a base for clandestine astivity directed

againgt the U.s. (Cl Bock Messarea du end 115): (b)

motivities of non-bloc Inteligence servicen, espedially

those that are potentially hariul to U.

3. Irterests;

(e) the plotting of revolutsonary sroupe ascending to

their current inportance in atreacts to everthrom

elines of their respective Latin Merlean countries

d the surrent alignaent and aotivitles or politica

forces with the potential for assuaing centro! of the

Koslear Dovernsent: (e) U. 3. Carmuniots residing In

Menloos and (f) tho spanima Cromunist Breup.

It will bo noted that cortain previous contingency

reporting raguirements have been scandod as follows:

The former levy for reporting

I has been changed to & soro realistic

and meaninghel statenaut as reflected by (d) above.

This modification la eppropriate, as political changes

La lenico doo moat ilkely to occur within the framerri

of conatitutionality. The provious charge for reporting

on

J1a no longor açecifically required and

has been dolete.

II, OBJEOTTIES

PATORITY A

lo Obtain information on sino-Soviet bic: plans and activi-

ties 1n Mex10o, Ingluding those of bloo Intelsigence

services.

• Continue and, where pessible, Increase physical and

technial surveillance of bloc installations and

residences.

a to do te of treen or tonitor

personnel.

:

!

---

## Page 4

14-00000

•. Continue CI oferationa egalnat bico intel. igence

personnel.

8. Seet to reduce

and leftiat control or influence in

and nor foremmental organizatiene

masa media outlets, und cther elemente that influence

pubile or official opiason and polloies.

a Develop political action penetration agents in key

functionai troupe

and retuce

their capacity for sarrying out ailen harrui to

U. 3. cbjectives and interesta.

b.

Espose and diacredit 11ioral es subveralve 9120-

soviet bloe sotiritice and representatives in rexico,

as wel: as the astluities aul porsemnel cl inter-

national and iccal Coonunist front organizating.

Identify

Commista and pro-somunisla fron atrategie positie

educational institutiene l

Industrial and agricuitural entarprises,

do

Provide support and give guidance to Individuals. and..

organliatione. that can de induced to produce and dis-

seminato ats-conunist, pre-sree turid propaganda

via redio, televidion, senapapero, or ottor media,

and eargy cut political astion operatione against

Commurist or other anti-u. S. elepeato.

Identity, develod, and utilize Important non-craniat

political, business or elvie leadere to carry cut pro-

paganda, eccnonio or political acticna againat Cct

unfat influmce and induoe them to support viena

ooinosding with U.s. loverment pollay Intercato.

continue to support and guide anti-cremnla:

J organizations, publioatione or agents.

and dan neceasury svelon adaitichai asseta l

aclected provinces.

3

---

## Page 5

Develop and support covert press asseta ir. the

3.

Develop Bocoon to individuali and organizationa

In the I

leaders and ruips in

obtain infcrnation on tho

Cumuniat frent

organisatione and encups,

and non-Carunfat md/or anti-i. s.

Ercups that may be susceptible to exploration by inter-

rational come.

a. Explolt end extend exlating penetrations in the

and the

Maintein pereirations of the

and asek to

ponetrate the antI-SICINA Ming ce the

bevelep and, if conditiens warrant, recruit a key

source in the

capable of nonltor-

1ag oultural contacte between the

Jand bloc

aipicnatle Installations.

do

continue to monitor the aotsvities of delested

Ccamunist-Influenced

ard front groupe

through the penesration in the

If cerlitions

varrant, base seiocted recruitaents in the l

or. groups.

4. Continue to obtein inforuation on cuban Revelutichary

activitles in sexioo and support U.S. Coverment efforta

agAlost the CASTPO regina.

•. continue to conduet penetration operations el Cuban

Inbrasy and induce defectiona or cuban dipicanta.

D. Pullult agenta la BoxIco for operational use in

seoure support of

for the conquet of operations againat cub.

do continue to provide operational aupport for activitien

---

## Page 6

14.00000

in a

-

directod againat the CAsInO regine in CuLe.

..

utilise propaganda bodie, political artich assets,

and other covert means to ccrabat the influence of

cuDan revolutionary ideologies in Mexico.

PRIORITY D

1. . Coabat

and ant1-U, 9. Activit:es in

Faxico, and propagandize the dagers of cramunion.

Do utllize exoting media and political action assota to

prevent of negate collaboration betsee

and Communists.

vellize modie and pollelcal action assote to preient

or negato the poold azononse and sultural peretratien

plana or astivitles of the sino-soviet bloc.

do

spot and demlop for future covert collateration

who my de Influenced to beouse Generaday

favorable to V. 3. interesto.

obtain Inforeation en the secret intentions and activities

of thei

particulary

covers the 0. So the sino soriet bloc, and cuiLa.

Continue to dovelop and Influonce high levol scotacta

1n the

partloularly the offico of

/and the

So Conlost information on the sino soviet blas.

• Continue penetration of airline and steamshis offices

and l

laroration on travellero.

agenciea to ebtain advance

naoruit of obtain the willing cellaboration of seleoted

traveller to bloo ocuntries, espesially these who will

nata in bioe countries for ar. extonded perica and

so my be on solentifio misalena.

5

-. --..

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Reerult third nationals and latin Anerica

dipienato to be assigned or traneferred to loo

countries.

do ebtain ecomnientions intelligence in bloo aiDlo-

natio traffse.

# Obtain information ca the Chinese Corenlat In Marico.

pao and arrest penetration on then

_{flee on Chinese 1lving 1r

---

