# 104-10169-10065

## Page 1

104-10169-10065

POUTING AND RECORD SHEET

i.CAS

PRIOR TO FUNG

1. Fill in Sert 2. oa back. Detach back flap and

'erward to RID

Desuoy fion: cover sheet unless it recerds

significant action laken or comments requir-

ing preservalon

FROM:

RIDI AN

"TO ACTION BRANCH

En gie noi proper, is.

uReat to LID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN BECTION 1. CN BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTE

₴.

TO

ROOM

NO.

HEAA /E

65t6

1 Ave

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'

NITIALI

COPY PERITTED EY

12.

1Đ.

Te.

17,

ND/N

THACE

AEQUEST

CATE MICHOTIERED

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ABATANU!

01u

..OR PARVIONE

100$10N8

TLE NUNNEN TRAINANY COUTT

501:21141

POCUMENT LAYT

-1: DEC 1965

SECRET

DOU MINT RUMIET

[NECT

23

yon

14214

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-

TO

DISPATCH

Crisis

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING AL 30

MANED FOR NOIRE

NO LOCKING EE GUANIA

CAN NUDGE ENDEXENI

МОСВОПЦИ

FROM

Chief of station.

SUBJECT

-7 Lit

O Gerational/Security: David Grahan "clanne Dufois

ACTION REQUIRED: NEURONCES RUURONCES 3

Reference: [iLCig8523, 3 Movember 1965

As requested In reference, Donald E. WIDEFNTiE discussed Subject dtr

wilbur wright.

Though Mr. "right has not seen

Subject for several montin, he ig

certain that he is still in tom. Ir. Wright informed IDERiTkE that Subjeet

holds a BA from Colombia, served during "orld ilar II in the Philipines as a

First lloutenant in ar engileering company which was all colored, and he vas

bitter over thie segregation practice.

He comes from New York, and Wright

believes he lived in Harlem. lie did Join the Cormunist Farty between 1951 and

1954 but has since left it.

His rcason for leaving the Farty 18 not lenown.

He

went to China in 1960, and wale there grew to hate it because of the lack of

acadecio freedom and the restrictions po bis rosemente he came to Cairo from -

Chinde

Currently he very much likes (merican so.digg such a3 (Scotch, which he

drinks with restraint,

und cigarettes, euc. Since he has penin estro he

has worked for Mild,

the Arab Observer maguzine and since 1964 the advertiring

firn of lamilton dright. He is talkine about rettine married to an unidentifled

Feyptian.

He has been married but is divorced.

His hrabic is eood and right

describes him as bright

He has the capacity to lie easily. and without cor

punction.

He is currently not manifestiny much interest in politice. He goes

to Naxin's Restaurant, a local diecothegue, frequently.

ve have no additional current information about. Subject other thar

that reported in NECA-13627, 27 March 1965.

23

Ellanch: deferies

Ellene hotolver

Dv

= Chief, NE

cana safaris to

CS COPY

DIAPATCH HYMNIL AND NUMERA

LURCATSYRI

GLAIAPICATION

Merloadistends

201-27111

16: 7; 1968

MOB ONE MUMBER

201-377141

4/g0

---

