# 104-10331-10188

## Page 1

1104-10331-10188

CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY: 6705641

CL. REASOR: Section 1.5 C

DECL OM: X1

DRY FRM: COV 1-82

TO:

FROM:

OFFICE:

DATE:

John F. Pereira

DCI

10/17/97 06:46:11 PM

SUBJECT: #Re: Release Issue/JFK Board

I gave the EXDIR a heads-up on this issue. He asked several questions:

* Who sits on the JFK Assassination Records Review Board?

* Are there any intermediate steps between a letter from the DDA and an appeal to the President?

* Who would make the appeal to the President, if we went that route? Is it the DCI?

* Has there ever been an appeal to the President before?

* Does the ISCAP have any role?

Original Text of John F. Pereira

Original Text of John F. Pereira

(C) This is to alert you to an issue that has been raised regarding release of sensitive ClA information by the JFK Assassination Records

Review Board. At its meeting on 14 October, the Board decided to release records that identity the

Records Center as an

Agency facility. Responsible components in the DA object to this release.

(FOUQ) Consequently, OIM, OFSS, OGC, and we are recommending that Dick Calder send a memorandum to the JFK Board Chair

(Judge John Tunheim) asking the Board to reconsider its decision. We'll also propose to Tunheim that a senior officer brief the Board on

the issue.

(FOUO) If the above steps are unsuccessful, then it is likely that the responsible components would recommend that the Agency appeal

the Board's decision to the President, as allowed under the JFK Act. OGC would prepare any appeal for the EXDIR's approval.

Regina A. Genton, Brian S. Latell, Edmund Cohen @ DA, James R. Oliver @ DA

Sent on 17 October 1997 at 06:46:11 PM

J. Barry Harreison

CONFIDENTIAL

---

