# 104-10186-10338

## Page 1

104-10186-10338

ANIMORA

NATIONS

RERORT

HOR MATION

REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00559-65

SUMECT Fernando PASCUAL Perez

(alias

"Alejandro")

DATE DISTR.

9 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7) 8 July 1964

DATE OF 1964-

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington,

D.

C.

CSCI-316/00270-64

20 July 1964

DATE ACQJanuary 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964•

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

Information

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addresses take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Upon further questioning of source concerning additional

Information on

Fernando PASCUAL Perez,

alias "Alejandro," he

stated that PASCUAL was a former member of the Departamento de

Scguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE) .

alleged to be one of the original members of the Direccion

seneral de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI) •

PASCUAL is a specialist in illegal operations in Salvador

and

Panama.

PASCUAL was born in about 1940. He is a Caucasian and 1s

five

feet six inches tall,

build. PASCUAL is fond of cars and women.

weighs 135 pounds, and has a slender

Headquarters Comment

Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced

this Agency has no additional identifiable information

on PASCUAL.

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5

3

2

SECR

E T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

NAVI

I Ald

— INSA

CINCSO *

I&YS

(Note: Field distribulion indicated by "$*.)

EINFORN

NO N

REFORE

NIL/SALEOR

HIL SALOB.

AH/SA/R

101/SkCI

CI/LA

WEL

5

RINLAN

ILLÄASHI

TOTALS

WI/SA R (T)

rr.1

scragrading ood

1ARS

I oce

LEBL 2

LATION REPORT

LIAISEN

JLX-1838

LUFGA 19020(24D0064)

NO PROTECTLANNUCY

Cacts 16, 00552-65

R748.

---

