# 104-10140-10062

## Page 1

104-10140-10062

CONASENTAL

5-31

Clearances

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Monday - 28 November 1977

HSCA

"30. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON 'Received a call from

Seymour Shwiller, on the staff of the House Armed Services Subcommittee

on Intelligence & Military Application of Nuclear Energy. He said he

would like to have a briefing on "that Russian thing that appeared in the

paper' this afternoon or tomorrow morning. I told Shwiller I would

check with our people and be back in touch with him. (Shwiller is a

former member of the staff of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy.

He has all the necessary compartmented clearances and has been briefed

on matters of this sort in the past. He is now continuing the same kind

of responsibility in his' current staff capacity with the House Armed

Services Committee.)

31. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Called Bob Blakey, Chief

Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, to talk with him

further about the inquiry I had received from a Committee staff employee

who was concerned about her clearances. (See Memorandum for the

Record.)

32. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Tony Lapham, General

Counsel, and I met with Tom Lätimer and Mike O'Neil, both on the

staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and

Bill Miller, Staff Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence,

to discuss a personnel matter of interest to the Director.

15-4

33. (Confidential - CM) LIAISON-Concerning the cable from

which advised that Representative Robert Dornan (R., Calif.)

is to be in London on 2 December and had asked that ad

- 4,32

served as

an escort

foate Dorean during the Paris Air Show in May 1977, brief him on

Shep Shepanek, SA/DO/O,

reported that the DDO interposed no objection to having the staffer meet

with Mr. Dornan, but thought it advisable

to inform Mr. Dornan

before he goes of the staffer's true affiliation. Lyle Miller concurred.

With this as background I called Mr. Dornan's office and asked for an

appointment to see him briefly before he left for Europe.

#31 Muff Rown-

"INTERNAL DEST

319U

---

