# 104-10295-10154

## Page 1

104-10295-10154

SECRET

20 November 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT

: ADNIIP/1 Meeting, New York City

Thuraday, 14 November 1963

Meoting Time/Place.

This meeting was laid on

by phone Iron tahington on 13 Novenber.

It took place as

scheduled

using an office/work-roon in A/l"s Jewelry Saotory-

showroom at 31 W. 47th st., New York.

2. Purposes of Neeting.

This necting was soheduled

in order to obtain information and identificatione from A/l

revelant to the AMLASH Operation.

We were particularly

Interested in determining AMLASH's present attitude toward

the Operation and any details of or names of likely

confederates which he may have discussed with A/l after

Ontrich's departure from the scene.

He were also intereated

in using A/l as a oheck against the liat of likely AMLASH

confederates which had been compiled by the MIAPRON group.

give AMFIIP/1

Finances•

The undereigned was prepared to

sufficient funde to cover his expenses and

those of AMLASI during the reoent three-weck aojourn in

Europe which A/l made at ou. request. lorever, A/l refused

to accopt any remuneration whatsoever, stating that the

money we had glven him for his round-trip ticket ($950,00)

was

enough.

This, for

the record, represenis an outlay

conservatively of some $1200 to $1500 by A/l from his own

pocket on KUBARK behalf, not to mention the lost time from

his own business.

Tie believe this gesture should be

remembered in future dealings: with A/l.

General. A/l was feeling poorly as the result

of a flu-type cold when we met.

He stated that he would not

have come in at all were it not for our scheduled meeting.

Nevertheless, he spent willingly several hours with us,

going over the points in which we were interested. The

meeting terminated at 1530 with no incidents of a security

nature noted.

Details of Meeting.

Collecting Information

for the AMLASA operation constituted the principal of

discussions during this meeting, and may be found as

attaohment A to this report. A

copy is filed also in the

AMLASH 201.

SAS/BOB, C/O

SECRET

Chauf 1

tand 636199 216

301-1252234

---

## Page 2

.н/1

SECRET

ATTACHMENT A

'TO:" ANHIP NESO OF MEETING OF 14 NOV 1963

The following Information and observations wore obtained

from A/l during the above meeting:

AMLASH! Secretary: Ernestina ACOSTA Gonzalez

(nickname:

Ene) calle 25 - #526 Apt 8 (presumably cur 25th

St., No. 526.... Vedado - Telephone 303665.

(Note AMASIl has considerable confidance in his secretary,

and has suggested that letters or packages could be sent

there on a one or two-shot deal.

2. In responde to the question of whom AMLASH

night turn to in order to carry out his plans, ANTHIP

mentioned the following persons:

Vose AÉEP Yara,

ca. 33 yrs old, who te functionary

In Havana muntoipal gova

of moorich descents Has wide

oircle of acquaintances in Havana.

Major NMEJEIRAS

Ramon GUIN

Juan ALKEIDA

"The NIEVES brothera

Jui (Pepin NAHANJO

of the above.

A/1 felt that GUIN, ACEF, The NIEVES, NARANJO

and AMELIlAS were the most dependable.

The degree

whiot Juan ALMEIDA could be trusted was questioned by A/i.

In addition

to the above names which A/l volunteered, he

aSKed abOut MaJOr DLAZ-ARGUELLES, Major Tony CASTELL and

unfor Faure CHOMON. A/l stated that he felt DIAZ-ARGUELLES

Sand his brother

"Tin-Tin' could be used and were trustrorthy;

ISTEN ANd CHOMON, on the other hand, would not be utilized

In the initial efforte by AMLASH, but, 1f his efforte were

himself

successiul, they could be counted on

to support LASH in the

period which followed.

They would never be taken into the

When asked about Majors Pedro

Yin ins

friendly with LASI, could not be trusted as his primary

loyalty was to FIDEL CASTRO.

SECRET

071-252234

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

Pego 2 of Attach. A

Concerning Majors Willian GALVEZ Rodriguez,

Crescend Lo PERIC (Montana?), and

not know these types well and therefore had little to say

regarding thee. He did say that he did not cure for GALVEY

personally and that he was a little "psycho"; BORDON was

OK; (PEREZ was an older men, ca. 60 years, who was a

nonentity who had his rank because he had guided the GRANNA

group into the hills at the boginning of the fight againat

Batista: (LUSSON was probably too loyal to laul CASTRO to be

considered for any initial aotion.

Khen questioned about the identition of followers

Of MajOr AMBIEIRAS, A/l stated that it would be better to

reler to AMASh, as he (A/1) could only give infornation that

was three years old and henoe not very accurate. We did not

press the question, nor suggost names, as it was evident

that he felt that his answore would simply not give a true,

current picture.

A/l provided the full name of a possible lead

Thich he had discuaned earlier with Ontrich:

Havana-

, (RUIZ 1g an assistant to

"Pureotor of Sporta" for the National Gort

1n lavana.

6.

In addition to the above information, the

undersigned discussed

various aspects of the AMLASH case,

and in particular, questioned A/l about AMLASH's frame of

mInd and future plans which he may have revealed to A/1

aftor Ontrich departed the scene.

A/ made several pointe,

which basically bolled down to the fact that AMLASIl wag

still not pleased with the support he was getting from the

USG side.

The visit with DAINOLD, who acted in the capaoity

of a represontative of high levels of the Govt concerned

with the Cuban problem, satiafled AMASH as far as polloyy

was concerned, but he was not at all happy with the fact

that he still was not given the technical assistance for

the operational plan as he saw it.

A/l said that AMLASH

dwelt constantly on this point.

He could not understand

why he was denied certain small pieces of equipment which

promised a final solution to the problem, while, on the

other hand, the USG gave mich equipment and money to exile

groupe for their inoffective excursions against Cuban

coastal targets.

According to A/1, AMLASH feols strongly

on this polut, and if he does not get advice and

naterials

SECRET

friend i

Ésfrasaelisalian

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Page 3 of Attach. A

from USG technician, he will probably becomo fed-up again,

and we will lone whatever progress we have made to date.

A/l stated that AMLASIl now has hia feet wet vig-a-via

cooperating with USf and has accepted the Inct that he will

work profitably and securely with it.

It is thie that

we

stand to lone with our procrastination.

AMLASH also

talked about going to the French terroriat group, the OAS,

In order to get the materiale and guidance he needs.

It

16 boltoved. that he was talked out of this idea, after the

dangers involved were discussed with AMLASH.

7. With regard to the radio gear, AMLASK stated

that he did not feel that he wanted to

take one in with

him, particularly in view of the recent arrests in Cuba

of agents carrying concealed radios.

Ile was not opposed,

however.

at this time to ha:ing a radio cached for him,

to be recovered by him later.

8.

According to ANIP, If there is any interest

in having AMLASI! link up with other trusted assets in

Cuba, these names would have to be given to him belore he

returned; otheruise he would not trust any other means

used later inside to get his to initiate or respond to such

contacts.

All stated that AMLASIl talked about getting

aid from,

or at least discussing his position, with

Manolo RAY.

However, he stated that he questioned whether

this was the best idea, since 1f RAY came to Paris while

he (LASE) was there, people would conclude that there was

something botwoen the two, Another spot wouid be better,

thought AHLASH.

At the tine of A/l'a departure, AMASH

said that he would contact "Jack" (Red Stent, Paris

staffer upon his return to Parts.

(This he

subsequently

did on the l5th of November, according to info recelved

from Paris-somewhat belatedly).

1l.

When AMLASHI, A/1, and VENEGAS were torether

In Rome and Italy, VENEGAS

told

AMLASII that people were

betting that LASh

would not return to Cuba.

Some had also

questioned his mother on this point. AMLASH reportedly

told VENECAS to cover all the bets he could as he would

be a rich san.

(It tas at this time, according to A/1,

that AMLASH seoided that he had better roturn to lavana

SECRET

Exch iN 201 252711

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Page 1 of Altaoh. A

• little sooner than he intelled, in faot almost as soon

a possible.

12.

AMLASH talked about the two possibilities

of re-taking Cuba • either thra invasion by US troops, or

bis way.

He also realizod, however,

that invasion was

not to be considered seriously at this time. Also, AlASH

talked about his ability to take some men into the hilla

of Las Villas Province and taking the small tows of

Trinidad and Topes de Collantes.

Ile said that he and bid

men could last no more than 15 days in the hillg as the

anti-guerrilla fighters now employed by the Regime were

ex-guerillas themsolves and knew the way to fight and

windin the hills.

Also the Soviet equipment made the govt

forces auch moro formidable than in Batiata's time.

AMLASHL

apparently was discussing these ideas with the impression

that this was the way to set up a provisional rebel govt

and thereby Invite and gain US support,

By the way A/1

tolked, it 18 fairly certain that AMASH realized that

this was not the kind of a plan which could even remotely

be expected to receive US aid.

It la hoped that he

does realize that javana must first be taken... or falling

that, a truely sizablo piece da land (say, almost an

ntire province) which could be a true rallying polnt and

staging ground linder complece Rebel control, from which

the rest of the island could be wreated from the Fidelistas

and the Communists.

In sumnary, the talks with A/l led the

undersigned to bellere that AMLASi! is again entering

one of his skeptical moode, one which our actions have

done little to dispel. Too little and too late.......

End of Report

SAS/BOB C/O

SECRET

CROEP T

Escletat ten astemalia

tosars inzison

---

