# 104-10217-10005

## Page 1

104-10217-10005

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATIONE

BATE? - SECRET

TO

Chief of Station, Belainti

FROCESSING

FRU

POSED

ACTION

HARKED FOR INDOUN

NO FOOTING ALQUIRED

COLT QUALIFIED

HZACQUANTERS DESA

CHA WOGE INDOUKE

LARROW'S ASTRACT

USHE

Chief, SR via Chief, WE

SUBJECT

O Pedar Alekseyerich CARANI (201 340678)

ACTION REOUTRIO RETEPETOR!

Action: Aa indicated

per (SH 43-43

Refe :

A

3 2067 (IN 80332)

B

- DIR 54507

C

$ 2070 (IN 81370)

Forwarded berewith is a print of a photo of Subject. The priut 18 not

the best due to the poor quality of the original.

It is obviously of & meh

younger nan and ve believe in probably dated about 1947.

e.

sabject van the exposed in an artiele appearing in the "The Raporter"

magazine, issue of farch 1953, as attempting to recruit an American profensor,

Danial AARON, who applied for a visa to the USSR at the Soviet Embaney, Helsinki.

Il subject in identical with Fedor Alekseyevich SHCHERBAKOV of reference A., the

ungasine publicity night explain why he 18 uning another nave when viaiting

Finland.

During Bubject's tome of duty 18. Cuba and the United Statee: 1945 to

1950, he waa 1'1 contact with such notorious Arican Comuriate Ra SILVERLASTER

and individunla Involved in the Judith COPION case. The "Reporter» story pervides

= Pairly god description of subjectie phraleal appearme and parority end wa

are attaching & cory of the article in case one 18 not on file in

h.9

20)

F??.

FORA I. QUARILIN

pic

FRESPOT T. CARGOLID

RI/F:10S

Attachaenta:

201-340678

GRET

Excluded tres snipralle

1 - Photo of Subject

& - Copy of magasine artiele

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHID

24 JUL 1963

Dietribution:

Original 8 1 - C08, pc-te

HENCE BE TES

per CSM 43-43

22 July

63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OPEN - 4208

HEADQUARTURS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

RIBRT - SECRET

201-340678

1 - RID

1

- WE/1/F

1 - C/SR/CI

ORIGINATING

OFFICER

4759AST

Cordelta Hond

CW

COORDINATING

56041

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

EFFICER'S NAME

DC6A I3I9D

Tc/SR/CI

WB/1/2

22/2

23/7

Підв)

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WE/1/0

(ä341/63

RELEASING

Benjamin fulles

---

