# 104-10216-10007

## Page 1

104-10216-10007

TIMEO, BI

ABLE SEE DISES ER IL PAH.

HE AMENDES HION EN

STRAIN 8.

ISSUING OFFICE IS PESHINI

VANCE COPE ISSUEDISLOTT

FROM WI

N

EUR

nxJ_= 1641

STAFF

ACTION :

T 282446

E1A910

PAGE 01

TOR:061635₴ OCT 76

IN 061444

7187

SECRET 061544Z OCT 76 STAFF

CI TE

71890

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT UNPOLKA KMSTONE

REFS A. PARIS 68A28 49 JUNE 29763 ( 941369)

B. DIRECTOR 867008 610 JUNE 19761

1. UNPOLKA MISSED MEETING WE HAD SET UP PRIOR HIS DELAYED

DEPARTURE FOR CUBA, AND REF & REQUIREMENTS CONSEQUENTLY NOT

• PASSED, FOLLOWING RETURN FROM CUBA, JOURNALISTIC

ASSIGNEMENTS OUT OF THE COUNTRY PREVENTED RECONTACT UNTIL

MEETING 5 OCTOBER. FOLLOWING IS PRELIMINARY REPORT ON MIS

CUBAN VISIT.

2. HIS TRAVEL TO CUBA WAS TO PREPARE A VOLUME ON

COUNTRY FOR PRESTIGIOUS FRENCH GUIDE BLEU TRAVEL SERIES.

TRAVEL AND EXPENSES WERE PAID BY CUBAN TOURIST ORGANIZATION

INIT A WHICH VERY INTERESTED IN FAVORABLE BOOK TO PROMOTE

Al

TOURIST INDUSTRY.

TOLD THAT AN INTERVIEW WAS LAD ON FOR

HIM WITH AN IMPORTANT PERSONAGE 12 SEPTEMBER, HE EXPECTED

TO MEET THE DIRECTOR OF INIT, BUT WAS SURPRISED TO FIND

THAT THE INTERVIEW WAS WITH CASTRO.

SECRET.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• this 23200

1884rG 2190

BLE SES GIDDEA

11t

SECRET

NESROOUCTION IS PROMOTE

ISSUING

STAFF

CICH UNIT

IsSUED SLOTTED

RF

-A!.

FILE.

VR .

N

AETION d

T 282446

E1A910

PAGE 02

TUR:861633Z OCT 76

3. CASTRO BEGAN BY ROUGHLY UNBRAIDING UNPOLKA FOR HIS

1962 BOOK ON CUBA "LA REVOLUTION SENSUELLE", SAYING THAT

HE REMEBERED GUEVARA HAD ALSO SPOKEN HARSHLY OF UNPOLKA

YEARS AGO AND MAKING HEAVYHANDED PLEASANTRY THAT THEY

HAD THOUGHT OF ARRESTING UNPOLKA REMEMBERING HOW HE HAD WRITTEN

OF CUBA. ATMOSPHERE GREW MORE RELAZED, HOWEVER. AS CASTRO

OBSERVED THAT, AFTER ALL, THEY HAD DISCOVERED. THAT SOME

OF THE INDIVIDUALS UNPOLKA MAD CRITICIZED MAD. IN FACT,

SUBSEQUENTLY PROVED TRAITORS TO THE CAUSE, SPECIFICALLY

MENTIONED:

A. ENU CUBELA. THIS MAN, CASTRO INDICATED. HAD

WORKED WITH ENEMIES OF CUBA, HAD EVEN TRIED TO KILL HIM

SCASTROS, HE SUBSEQUENTLY SERVED A TERM IN PRISON, BUT

HAVING PAID HIS DEBT TO SOCIETY, WAS PERMITTED TO PICK UP

HIS LIFE AGAIN AND COMPLETE MEDICAL STUDIES, AND WAS NOW A

CARDIOLOGIST IN HAVANA, CIMPLETELY OUT OF POLITICS. "UNPOLKA

MAD NO EXPLANATION FOR SURPRISING LENIENCY TOWARD SOMEONE

WHO WAS THOUGHT TO HAVE MADE AN ATTEMPT ON CASTRO'S LIFE.)

B. FNU FRANQUI• CASTRO RECOUNTED THAT THE REGIME

KAD PULLED IN A POET (UNPOLKA THOUGHT THE NAME WAS SOMETHING

SECRET

IN 061444

PARL 71598

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1OHN 11900

8-818090876

B ABLE SEC DISSEM BY

#-7 ASONMIT NOTIFIEO.

_ ADVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOITED

ACTION UNIT

RF

FILE

DOTA 655!.

SECRET

18v

ĐT+4f

SSED OTEL 1520M

STAFF

VR

ACTION "

T 282446

ETA910

PAGE 03

IN 861444

TOR: 061635₴ OCT 76

PARI

71892

LIKE "PADILLA", WHOM CASTRO DESCRIED IN VLUGAR TERMS AS A

HOMOSEXUAL. FRANQUI, THEN IN EUROPE FOR MEETINGS WITH

FELTRINELLI, TRIED TO DRUM UP SYMPATHY FOR PADILLA AMONG

INTELLECTUALS. CASTRO, WHO REGARDED FRANQUI AS A BROTHER,

PROMISED LATTER SAFE CONDUCT TO RETURN TO CUBA TO TALK THINGS OVER.

BUT FRANQUI NEVER CAME BACK. (ALTHOUGH UNPOLKA WAS NOT

CLEAR IN HIS RECOLLECTION OF EXACTLY WHAT WAS SAID, HE GOT

IMPRESSION THAT FRANGUI HAD POSSESSED SOME INFORMATION OR

• DOCUMENTS EMBARRASING TO CASTRO OR THE REGIME. UNPOLKA NOTE, FOR

EXAMPLE, THAT CASTO MENTIONED THAT FELTRINELLI (FORTUNATELY"

HAD SINCE DIED.J

4. CASTRO WENT ON TO ASK UNPOLKA WHETHER HE WOULD GE

READY TO COME BACK TO DO ANOTHER 800K ON CUBA, PRESUMABLY

TO SHOW PROGRESS MADE BY REGIME. (UNPOLKA SENSED THAT THIS

WAS PRINCIPAL THING ON CASTRO'S MIND. UNPOLKA SIDESTEPPED

BY SAYING THAT HE WOULD HAVE TO BE GIVEN SAME FREEDOM TO

TRAVEL THAT HE HAD ENJOYED FIRST TIME. THERE WAS NOT

RESOLUTION TO THIS PROPOSAL.

5. WE ASKED WHY UNPOLKA THOUGHT HE WAS RECIPIENT OF SUCH

SPECIAL AUDIENCE, APART FROM POSSIOLE CASTRO INTEREST IN ABOVE

SECRET

resistan scats saise

---

## Page 4

14-00000

9-91 ReF$ 2-J0

GAbLE SEC DISSEM EY.

PEH

PERSOR UNIT ROTIFIED

→JURACE COPY ISSUED'SLOTTED

ACT:ONE UNIT

RF . FILE :

•ACTION o

TOTA. (ORIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BE

OIMES TA

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMIDATE.

STAFF

VR .

282446

E1A910

PAGE 84

- a-

TOR: D61635₴ OCT 26

IN 061444

PARI

718%2

BOOK PROJECT. HE REPLIED THAT HE HAD BEEN TRYING CUNSUCCESSFULLYS

TO LOCATE SOME SURVIVORS OF GUEVARA'S BAND, WHO HE UNDERSTOOD

HAD RETURNED TO CUBA, IN ORDER TO INTERVIEW THEM, HE FEELS

CASTRO MAY HAVE HEARD OF THESE INQUIRIES AND WANTED TO KNOW

MHAT UNPOLKA'S INTEREST WAS. CASTRO ASKED UNPOLKA WHAT

LATTER HEARD ABOUT GUEVARA'S REPUTATION IN LATIN AMERICA.

UNPOLKA REPLIED THAT MANY BELIEVE GUEVARA WAS BETRAYED BY THE

BOLIVIAN CP. CASTRO STATED THAT SITUATION WAS MORE

COMPLICATED THAN THAT, ALTHOUGH HE ACKNOWLEDGED THAT GUEVARA

HAD ERRED SY PERMITTING HIS OPPONENTS IN BOLIVIAN CP TO

RETURN TO LA PAZ AFTER A DISPUTE OVER TACTICS.

6, UNPOLKS STATED THAT HIS PRINICAL CONTACT IN CUBA

HAS A MIGH OFFICIAL OF INITO ROBERTO SA ALAS. HE STATED

SALAS IN LATE 30'S, HAD SPENT 18 YEARS IN U.S.. RETURNING

TO CUBA WHEN CASTRO SEIZED POWER, AND HAD ACCOMPANIED GUEVARA

TO ALGIERS, SALAS TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY, WILL BE VISITING

BELGIUM IN FEBRUARY. ACCORDING TO UNPOLKA, ALAS SEEMED TO

BE SENSIBLE, NOT DOCTRINAIRE. OPEN MINDED, PERHAPS SLIGHTLY

VENAL, I.E., SOMEONE WE MIGNT FIND AMENABLE TO AN APPROACH.

? "UNPOLKA WAS LATE FOR ABOVE MEETING, AND TIME WAS

SECRET

PSSe

---

## Page 5

14-00000

071 M60 2

LABLE SEr DISEAS EN._

PERSON/IT NOTIFIRO

ATIVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTIED

ACTION UNIT

RF .

FILE

117 195

SECRET

......-.

F77708 #1

ISSUING

IS SORE CURE I PROM

STAFF

VR .

ACTION

T 282446

E14910

PAGE 05-05

TOR: 0616352 OCT 76

LIMTED BY OTHER COMMITMENTS, WE HAVE SCHEDULED NEXT

MEETING FOR 12 OCTOBER, WITH FIASCONARO PRESENT, TO REVIEW

AND DEVELOP ABOVE PRELIMINARY REPORT AND DEBRIEF UNPOLKA

ON MARIO A VERMOFF PURON, HIS CONTACT AT CUBAN EMBASSY

HERE ON GUIDE BLUE PROJECT. APPRECIATE HOS TRACES BY

OPENING OF BUSINESS 12 OCTOBER ON SALAS, ALSO

APPRECIATE ANY MOS GUIDANCE, REQUIREMENTS BASED ON ABOVE.

CAN HOS CONFIRM THAT CASTRO-UNPOLKA MEETING TOOK PLACE.

@VERIFY GENERAL OUTLINES OF GASTRO COMMENTS! IDENTIFY

PRESENT WHEREAOUYS "CUBELA" (WHOM WE ASSUME IS AMLASH/1)

AND FRANQUI.

8. FILE DEFER. E2, IMPDET.

IN 261444

PARI 71873

SECRET

---

