# 104-10308-10208

## Page 1

104-10308-10208

UNCLASSIFIED

iNAL

CONFE VIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHELL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

NO.

DATE

WH4/Ex0

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

3.

DATE

RECEIVED

FFICER

NITIAL

5 July 1960

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Drow a line across column after each comment.)

FORWARDED

(MANEY JOS

mone

FILE TEMpo

KNRUSNCTEL

SPRUP

6.

Alice

7.

8.

Kay

Naniel

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

un ba, (KS)

west tip,

File Guidance

FORM

¡DEC So 610 USEDREYIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRISTING OFFICE: 19580-476731

---

## Page 2

13-00000

C

5 JUL ISCO

MEMOR:MOOK FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VI%:

SUDICCT:

Deputy Director (Flaus)

Operational Exploltation of Khrushcher Visit to Cuba

1. This memorandur is for the Director's information only and does

not roguire action.

2. in trivitation by the Government of Cuba to Khrushchev to visit

that coutry has bean ofiicially accopted, but as yet no dofinite time has

been set.

There has been speculation that Khrushchew woald arrive in

Habana for the 26t of July celebrations, wbile a preas report, confirming

a statement of the Soviet Ambassador in Mexico, predicts the arrival for

sagust.

Earlier reports had suggested December 1450 or January 1961

as possible dates.

3. It 1s felt that a successful vialt by Khrushcher to Cuba would assist

farther in the establishment ot & aoild Soviet understanding with that country,

with distarbing ovartones on the possible establishment oi closer Soviet

relationohipo in other part of Latin America, For this season it lo

¡desirable to prevent the visit or to counteract it by a show of massive

opposition by the Cuban poople.

%. On 2l Jane the Habana Station was ashed for its views on posstue

plans. In the exchange of cables that has followed, the Statlos and Headquarer:

are won in agreement that the best course of action lies la iuo operation.

First, a mansive church manifeatation or rally to be called for some otto:

purposs would afford the peoplo oi Cuba an obvious way to espresa their

protest, Second, the instigation of sumors that Khruahchar's life will be

in danger while in Cuba fron e vell-planned assassination attempt would

be propagated from other latin americar countries.

5. Because of the need of avolding actlon is Cuba di this trattorti

would imperil Station assets, It has boon detecsined that such assees word!

be uned only an a reons of dustigating the church to hold the rally.

6. The lagese report from fiabana indicates that plans are going

satialactorily.

Jis described as enthusad about tho

06

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SCORE

a prominent lay leado.,

Cainerory to colicis the support of the local Bleanp.

the in now risiting

will seck

mimilar suppor la santiago.

Tantative plans call for a congress os rally

a insun ption Day, 15 July.

i, Tha Station has asked that the entire effort begin with cuba,

withoat initial cutside support from Cuban exile groups or the spottore di

the anti-castro programs on Station #nui. 1 cable has been ront to 16-1

o have the CELAMpar almilar rallica throughoat Latin America.

Wis prose assets will be called upon to auppori these and the cuban assor.

when plans ate firmer.

24

The

Dwill be asked to send one de lis

contacts in thefield of journalica to Habans to contact Miicials and 10

visit the ollices of the New China News Agency. He will bo instruciod to

ask Coramunist stall memboro there what substance these might be to

rumors he has heard that an assascinatios attempt on Kbruahchey will late

place, The same tochnique io being uned tbrough shreo Cabang living Ir

Miami who sse do condiant contact with Cuba. Speculatlan on duci aber -te

will be surlaced on the Nail, program and la certain controlled tatin

prosE nodia.

J. C. Fing

Chie!

Western Hemisphere vivinion

EHHinkle:1rh

5 July 1950

Distribution:

Original and 1 - Addressee

1 - DDCI

d - DDP

1 - C/WHD

1 - C/WH/4

I - Originator

1 - WH/4/Chono

5/11

---

## Page 4

13-00000

---

## Page 5

13-00000

2 July 1960

TO

: C/WH/L

Subject: Khrushchev Visit to Cuba

Bäckground. An Imitation to visit Cuba has been exteaded

to Khrushchev by ibe Goverment of Cuba. The invitation has been

accepted, but do definite time has been set.

There has been song

spoculation that Khrushchey would arrive in Havana In time for the

celebrations of the 26th of July. The press has reported that be

will arrive in August (a date confirmed by a statement of the Soviet

'Ambassador in Mexico). Other reports say the visit will not take

place for several months, probably in December of January. In any

event we must plan for the possibility of the July visit.

It has been stated from several sanguine quarters that we

should "do the sane thing to Khrushchev. that the Japs did to Eisen-

hover". This 1s a completaly unrealistic dream.

It is tize that a successful Khrushcher visit to Cube

would bo the final store in the construction of a solid Soviet

base in Cuba, with disturbing overtones for the possible construction

for more Soviet ideoligical bases in all of Latin America. For that

reason we are trying to do what we can to prevent the visit, or at

least to show a massive sit opposition to 1t.

ExploitationPlang.

On 21 June Hqs sent a cable to Havarz

asking for views on possibility of a major effort to force cancellation

of the visit. A resulting series of cables shows that the station and

headquarters are now in agroement that our best hope lies ir

a. A massive Church manifestation or rally, which

thouph called for some other purpose, would be to the people

of Cuba an obvious way to express their protest. And

fron outside Cuba, Instigating of runors that

Khrushcher's life will be in danger es fron & well-plennera

assassination attenpte

3. Mi. Helms has told h us that he wants CIA to undertake no

action that will imperil Station essets.

This injunction was placed

on ua while we were exchanging cables with Havana.

The result is that

station assets are activaly Irstigatirg the church to hold the rally.

A FLAul cable from Headquarters has instructed the station to

continue this course of action as long as there is "safety in nunbers"

1.0., as long as it is a church action rather that an AMPALM one.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

4. The latest cable fran the field (IN 18883) reports tal

thét plans are going satisfactorily

En "enthused" about the Idea.

the local EmiR Bishop.

in Santiago to seek the help i of the Santago Bishop.

plans call for a congross or rally on Assumption Day, 15 July.

The station has asked that the entire effort at least

begin withir Cuba, without cuside support fron Frd or wruL.

Hemisphere Plans. A cable has gone out to CRAM, (in l6-11

asking this Church organization to spark sinilar rallies

throughout Latin America. JMRAKE assets will be called upon to

support these and the Cuban meeting when you plans are firner.

stance there might be to the rumore he has beard that an attempt

will take place.....Rívas, a friend of Pudy Gones, is using the

same anthetex technique through three Cubans living in Miami

who are constant contact with cuba.

Speculation on the assassinationittempts will be surfaced

on the WRUL program, in AMPACA'S paper, etc.

David A. Pbillips

7IMV

---

