# 104-10128-10116

## Page 1

104-10128-10116

....

...

SECRET Ar

FI/STC/SPB

TO:

ATTENTION:

FROM:

J0-B112

Chig4069ecial Security Division

SUBJECT:

Merence 1a made to your memorandu dated 23 July 1951

requesting a covert security clearance to permit Subject's une 11

the United States in preparing reporte and furnishing contuote in

the neispaper and lecture field in the United States and abroad.

He will work closely with PP/CRTV OffIce.

1354

un accordance with the provisions set forth in the Director's

Memorandum of 14 February 1949 entitled, "Security and Operational

Clearances," a covert security clearance is granted for the covert use

of the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph

1, above.

3.

The Subjects of covert security clearances are not to represent

themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4o Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

clearance does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of

CIA Regulation 10-9.

Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to

change the status or use of this individual, a request for clearance to

dover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

SSD Chief

5. This clearance becones invalid in the event the Subject's

Ao Chieferyices are not utilized within 60 days of the date of this memorandum.

A.

to

Dep. V

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

AG.

& Trag.

Chel,

SRB

Chief. Cover

Chief

Cos.

Go.:

{cat

F3, "E

S: Losi

Open Desk

ASSE

Files

ENSE arhm

B0 July 54

CLOSED

Tayla

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

Robert H. Cunningham

Orisial hand earsied ly

austredee

i/PS

S. SECRET

---

