# 104-10109-10319

## Page 1

104-10109-10319

12.31

30 April 1971

NINORINDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: WAJHINGTON MERRY-GO-ROUND

Article by Jack ANDERSON in

WASHINGTON POST for 27 April 1971

Captioned "Telltale Traces of CIA

Cache Found"

WHITTEN, Leslie Hunter (#606 563 and 67868)

Les WHITTEN, born 2i February 1928 at Jacksonville,

Florida was considered for employment as a messenger with

RFE, Europe in March 1952. His use was cancelled in May 1953.

It is noted that WHITTEN, Jack ANDERSON's associate, called

Nir. Goodwin's office on 14 April 1971 and asked 'if CIA has

planned or carried out any landings of any kind against Cuba

since 1962." iir. Goodwin declined to comment.

AYERS, Bradley E. (#366 085)

Bradley E. AYERS, born 7 March 1935 at St. Faul, Minnesota,

security approved in August 1961 for une as a military assignee to

Froject JNWAVE. His employment was terminated in December 1964

when he returned to his parent service. AYERS was a U.S. Army

Captain who had been granted a TOP SECRET clearance by U.S. Army

Headquarters, It. Benning, Georgia in January 1958. It is noted from

his file that his wife, Rose Nary Lucy AYERS nee SCHELI had been

employed as a clerk-typist by the FSI from July 1953 to December 1954.

RODERICK, Edward T. ($366 084)

Edward T. RODERICK, born 28 August 1924 at Brociston,

Massachusetts, a U.S. Army Major, was loaned to the Agency for

use at JNWAVE in lay 1963. Clearance for access to information

classified up to and including TOP SECRET on a need-to-know basis

f=-....../..-•

"...

---

## Page 2

14.0000%

Fid.

was granted RCDERICK in May 1963. A TOP SEARSE clearance

had been issued to him by Headquarters, Ft. leade, Maryland

in Catober 195S. He also held special clearances. Agency

investigation of RODERICK was cancelled in Decembe? 1963 as

notification was received that he was retiring frce tige Army as of

30 June 1964. Fie was returned to his parent sestice as ci 18 June

196% It is noted that requests for clearance actions e ATeRs

and RODERICK were included together in one mezarander dated

o iviay 1963.

ICSIVER, William H. (#378 094)

William H. LOSNER, born 31 June 1938 ≤ Elemestead-

Florida,

He was Vice-Presicent &

Cashier of the Perrine-Cutler Ridge Bank, Homesteze, Florica.

(See attached copy of Message 119 dtd 22 April 1971 from SAC/MFO).

Sarah K. Hall

SRS/CS

2

---

