# 104-10123-10154

## Page 1

104-10123-10154

do ta 10?4

MEMORANDUM FOR TIE RECORD

SUBJECT: Agency Contact with the Inmigration

and

Naturalization Service on Behalf of MI.

Johnny Roselli

1.

Reference is made to a request forwarded to the

Office of security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C.

Richards, Office of the Inspector General. The Subject

office of the

of inquiry is based on a request for infornation, made on

13 March 1974, by. Mr. Terry Lenzner, Assistant Majority

Chief Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Presidential

Campaign Activities, to Mr. Lyle L. Miller, Deputy Legis-

lative Counsel. Mr. Lenzner cited

• a 14 May 1962, Agency

memorandum which refers to contact between Mr. Lawrence

Houston, then General Counsel,

and the then Attorney

General, Mr. Robert Kennedy, with the intention of "quashing

of a Grand Jury organized crine indictment against Sam

Gianconni (sic) (Salvatore Giancana)." Mr. Lenzner is under-

stood to believe this reported contact and the circumstances

surrounding

the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Giancana

during President John F. Kennedy's Administration were being

surfaced in 1971 as part of an

effort to obtain blackmail-

type information on cextain principals in the Denocratic

Party. Mr. Lenzner specifically requested information on

Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating

to this matter.

2: The files and records of all individuals identified

with the planned utilization of Mi. Giancana were searched.

These andividuals included NI. Robert A. Maneu, who

arranged

contact with Mr. Giancana through Mr. Johnny Roselli; ar-

RIchard Cain, recently deceased, who was identified in the

press as knowledgeable of Agency association with di GLancana:

and Mr. William ling Harvey, retired Stafi employec,

who

acted as proncipal contact win ri.

Roselii.curing inc

late 1960's and up until Mr. Rosclii's incarceration.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 061142

SECRE!

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Additionally, the files of othei individuals associated with

Mr. Robert A. Mahcu were also searched. These included, Nt.

Peter k. Maheu, Mir.

and it.

currently an Agency contract employee, who vas utilized

during 1968 and 1969 in_

a connercial cover

arrangement provided by the

3. Memoranda were located in the file of Mr. Johnny

Roselli which summarize contact on 26 lebruary 19r

initiated by this Agency with the Commissioner, Innigratior

Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, Mr. Raynond

Farrell. The purpose of this effort was to intercede with

the Immigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr.

Roselli in the action being initiated for deportation. It

was determined that this Agency would be kept informed of the.

progress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an ettort to

forestall public disclosure of his association with the United

States Government.

The Attorney General at the time of these

contacts with the Immigration and Naturalization Service was

Mr. John N. Mitchell. .

4. On ?1 March 1974, this matter was discussed with Mr.

John C. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mir. Lyle l.

Miller, Deputy Legislative Counsel; and Stanton F. Ense,

Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,

Office of Security.

The Office of Security file on Mr. Johnny

Roselli was made available to Messrs. Richards and Miller,

including the memoranda cited in paragraphs 1 and 3 above. Mr.

Miller indicated that he planned to await a

• follow-up call

from Mr. Lenzner on this Subject.

Stanton F. Ense

Deputy Director of Security

Personnel Security and Investigations

2

---

