# 104-10227-10056

## Page 1

104-10227-10056

221215

CASTILD MESSAGE

•419-194-05

TO

IROA :

ACTION:

INFO

R

raid to

* 104::

UMWAVE

DAS 10. (IN COPY SLOTICO AI GODI, DE APRIL!

D/DEA, DOP,

cA?, ca/rea, ca/pRos,

c8, cl/0rs, 6l/10 2,

11, 51/0, 81/ 1N7 2,

10, 00/1, AD/E12, AD/NE, 3/6 2.

MiB

APR 12 8:21Z 63

PRIORITY

IN 16508

TOES > 3 - 3/654,173

P

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 7048

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: ERWAHOO:

FOLLOWING REFRESENTS

FROM AMBUCKLE-1, AMSIGH-I (PARA 3), AMYUM! SPARA 31, AMOT-2D-(PARA

27), ANSHADY-I (FIELO COMMENT PARA 9), AMADE-I (FARA 18), NO MARAZZ-1.

BECAUSE OF THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF FRESENT

ING A COHESIVE REPORT WERE FACH

ITEM TO BE PROPERLY SOURCED, THIS VARIATION

S BEING FORWARDED

FILED 1201437

R

REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL COLTROLLED DISSEM

XFG-266S

COUTITRY: CUBA

SUBJ: EXILE COMMUNITY REACTION TO THE CRISIS IN THE REVOLUTIO ARY

COUNCIL

iW COMMENT:

ROUTING

DIO DISSEMINATION IN: THE ATTACHED

CADLE HAS BEEN

MADE O: L 11.. AGENCY PENDING

DI THE ACTION UNIT.

w..o sen.

19-124-75

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

ERIORITY

BATT DIS TIeS Tr

DESTROY.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

hi?,

"CLariss!

insurancE

*7,C₴

risr

101E MIONESTY 909.

1D.

SOUTING

ACTION:

INJO

IN 16608

TDCS

ALAST AND

EATE DISTRIEUTES

BASTO ON.

LIAISON

PROHIBITED

Copy No.

C

Cli: 9a11 APR 63

PADA: US 11 APR 63

UFG 2665

APPR: 2 THAT THIS IS PEFRESCATATIVE OF TAE CUBAN EXILE OFI!ON

SOURCES: SEE PARA I BELOW!

IVI COMMENT:

- --

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

---

## Page 3

note to nair.

GEREO...

CONFIDENTIAL

tH'Arn Flllod fog

COUNTRY

SYNECT

FINFURMATION REPONT, TELEGRA.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

0800 he lugd

basino al elem,

One of 0 deral on Do monid% a 100990 done to le UB6 is

CLASSIFICATION - DISEMINATION CONTROLS

REPORTNO, TOCS.

DAD DISTAN

DATE OF

INFO.

"LACE &

DATE ACO

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

REFFRENCES,

IN

1.66,08

FIELD REPORI NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE CRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF COL

1 FIELD COMMENT: THE FOLLOWING REPRESENTS OPINIONS, BY VARIOUS

LEADING MEMEERS OF THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY WHO HAVE BEEN PARTICIPATING

' ACTIVELY IN THE CURRENT CRISIS REVOLYING

a AROUND THE RESIGNATION OF JOSE"

•MIRO CARDONA FROM THE CUBAN REVOLUIONARY COUNCILE;

2. GERARDO RODRIGUEZ REPEAT RODRIGUEZ MIRANDA, ACTING CHIEF OF

THE DIRECTORIO MAGISTRAL REVOLUCIONARIO. (DMR, REVOLUTIONARY TEACHERS'

DIRECTORATE), DURING THE TEMPORARY

ABSENCE OF OSCAR DE LA VEGA,,

SAID THAT THE DMR IS CLOSELY WATCHING THE CRISIS IN, THE. CONSEJO REVO-

LUCIONARIO CUBANO (CRC, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL),: BUT. FROM AN

INDLPENDENT STANDPOINT®: THE DMR DOES NOT EXPECT TO MAKE ANY PUBLIC

CONFIDENTIAL,

"CLASSIFICATION - CONTROLS CONTROLS.;

Ana diw 6 4.84

410 USEA OEO ONE 0CE

4: 8481

AS INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRA

(19-20)

in :

---

## Page 4

CON TORREGINATON CONTROLS

M 16628

TOOS

STATEMENT RELATIVE TO THE ISSUE BETWEEN THE CRE AND THE GOVERNMENT OF

THE UNITED STATES, AND REGARDLESS OF THE FINAL OUTCOME, THE DMR DOES

NOT FEEL THAT IT WILL BE AFFECTED. (FIELD COMMENT: GENEROSO CAMPOS

REPEAT CAMPOS MARQUETTI AND MANOLO RAY REPEAT RAY: RIVERO ALSO REMAINING

SILENT.)

3. THE MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO MRR, REVOLU

TIONARY RECOVERY MOVEMENT), AS A GROUP, DID NOT WANT TO SUPPORT

JOSE MIRO REPEAT MIRO CARDONA, BUT FELT THAT THEY HAD LITTLE CHOICE

BUT TO SUPPORT MIRO AS TO DO OTHERWISE WOULD LEAVE THEM OPEN TO THE

ACCUSATION THAT THEY WERE SUBSERIBING TO A SITUATION WHICH MIRO

FOUND UNACCEPTABLE.

(FIELD COMMENT:.. ACCORDING TO CESAR BARO, MIRO HAD

A LIST OF INDIVIDUALS WHO, HE SAID; WOULD BETRAY HIM (MIRO); THIS

LIST INCLUDED VARONA, PEREZ, BERMUDEZ, ANTONIO MACEO, AND JOSE

FERNANDEZ REPEAT FERNANDEZ BADUE.)

4. AT. THE O TO 1S APRIL MEETING OF THE, CFC, THE REPRESENTATIVES

OF THE VARIOUS GROUPS WERE TOLD BY ANTONIO SILIO THAT THE FINAL STATE-

MENT OF THE CRE WOULD BE ISSUED AS A "UNANIMOUS" STATEMENT DESPITE

POSSIBLE ABSTENTIONS UN THE PART OF SOME ORGANZATIONS, AND THAT

ABSTAININO GROUPS WOULD BE DEALT: WITH LATER. ACCORDING TO GILBERTO

MONTENCCRO OF THE 30 NOVEMBER GROUP, THE FRENTE OSRERO REVOLUTIONARIO

"'¡RECRAT CO GUSANO (FORDO, REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC CÜBAN WORKERS!

PUR! D LO CRISISHED FOR ITS "IRFACHERY" IN SECONDING THE STAND

AKIN EN INTONIO DA DE VARONA REDFAT VAROVNIORECO MELINSI MIRA

---

## Page 5

19

1118:

r 48.r.

lippearinate

CAPA TIME

TOT a DiSEMMIHATION CONTROLS

IN

IDCS

16623

PAO0

SANTIAGO COBOS, AND TWO STUDENTS, MEMBERS OF THE MRR BUT NOT MEMBERS

OF THE MAR DELECATION TO THE CRE URGED SOLID BACKING FOR MIRO IN HIS

, STAND AGAINST US AURHOTITIES.

0.

5. JESUS FERNANDEZ OF THE 38. NOVEMBER GROUP WHO ATTENDED THE CRC 1,

MEETING WAS IN FAVOR OF THE COMPLETE PUBLICATION OF MIRO'S STATEMENT, !.

AND ITS DISTRIBUTION THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA; PRECILIANO FALCON AND

GILBERTO MONTENEGRO ALSO OF THE 38 NOVEMBER GROUP ECHOED THESE STATEMENTS.

6. AT THE CRC MEETING AFTER MIRO HAD READ HIS STATEMENT HE

OPENED THE MEETINO FOR DISCUSSIONS FROM THE FLOOR, TULIO DIAZ REPEAT

DIAZ RIVERO SAID THAT THE CRC. COULD NOT BREAK WITH. THE UNITED STATES

COVERNMENT; THIS ANNOYED MIRO BECAUSE THE PREVIOUS WEEK: DIAZ HAD STATED

' THAT THE CORPORACIONES ECONOMICAS (ECONOMIC CORPORATIONS) WERE CONSIDER",

6 ING RESIGNING FROM THE CRE BECAUSE OF A LACK OF US POLICY.

• 7• CESAR BARO ASKED MIRO IF HE (MIRO) INTENDED RESIGNING

AND MAKING PUBLIC HIS STATEMENT DESPITE WHAT THE CRE MIGHT SAY, MIRO

REPLIED THAT HE WOULD DO WHATEVER THE CRO DECIDED HE SHOULD DO.

8. AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE MEETING VARONA SAID THAT CERTAIN

UNIDENTIFIEO PEOPLE WERE VISITING "HARVARD BOYS" TO WIN THEIR BACKING,

AND WERE SUBMITTING PLANS FOR OPERATING FROM CENTRAL AMERICAN

COUNTRIES. VARONA ALSO SAID THAT HE WILL BE RESIGNING FROM THE CRE

AND IN THE FUTURE WILL ACT. ONLY ON HIS OWN.

9. THERE ALSO SEEMS TO BE THE OPINION THAT THE CRE IS ACTUALLY

(WANTING DE ID MiRO AS A MEANS DE SAVING THE EXISTENCE OF THE COC;

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

---

## Page 6

WHil

* ORCDENTIAL

TPOS

N16608

PAON

THE GRE DOES NOT WANT TO MAKE CHALIE THE BATEMENT AY MIRO AS THEY

PEED THAT THIS WOE PESTERN ONE RELA

ASPIRER COMMENTO THERE SERMO

TROL PING ON ANNEN DECEITE VERTO RE MIRO AS PRESIPENT

AS NOR MENTHAT MORE

WAS MEN IN

FFECT.

8959140

AGO, THE SPANISH LANQUARE RADIA IN THE MIAMI AREA HAS MAD EXTENSIVE

COVERAGE OVER THE CRE CRIBIA, MANY HAVE EXPRESSED THE DRINION THAT THE

RESIGNATION OF MIRO WAS NULLIFIED WHEN THE GRO BACKED MIRO, SOME

FEEL THAT MIRO'S RESIGNATION WILL BE EFFECTED, HOWEVER THE MAJORITY OF

THE SPANISH NEWS BROADCASTERS ARE UTILIZINO THIS CRISIS TO ASK FOR

GREATER UNITY AMONG THE CUBAN EXILES. THERE ARE OTHERS WHO BELIEVE

THAT MIRO IS ONLY TRYING. TO CONVEY THE IMPRESSION THAT ME CAN DISAGREE

WITH UNITED STATES POLICY, AND THAT HE REALLY DOES NOT INTEND TO RESION.

IN THIS MANNER THE MIRO IMAGE WOULD BE ENHANCED RY AN AURA OF

INDEPENDENCE, WHILE ATILL CONTINHINO IN HIS CAPACITY AS A TRAL OF

WASHINGTON. LUIS DEL POZO, FORMER MAYOR OF HABANA, FAIR ME MAD

RECEIVED A LETTER FROM CURA MISH INDICATEP THAT THOSE IN CURA WERE

FOLLOWING THE MATTER CLOSELY, THE CUBAN INTERNAL HOPF APPEARE TO BE

ONE, FOR REPLACINO MIRA,

10.

ONE LEADING EXILE OFFICIAL SAID THAT MIRO WANTED TO PROVE

THAT HE WAS NOT IN THE VEST POCKET" OF THE HS AFPARTMENT OF STATE,

MAHAT HE WIG REALLY ARRREGFASATINGOREATHE GIANET AT THE POINT,

SO RENIAL"

---

## Page 7

assis.

TDCS

PAGE

HAVING GONE AS FAR AS HE HAS, HE CANNOT BACK DOWN. IT HAS BEEN RUMORED

THAT MIRO WILL LEAVE THE UNITED STATES, AND THAT MANY MEMBERS OF THE

I CRE WILL FOLLOW HIM; THERE ARE ALSO RUMORS THAT ANOTHER ORGANIZATION.

¿WITH MIRO AT ITS HEAD HAS ALREADY ELEN DISCUSSED AND IS IN THE FORMATIVE

*STAGES. ¡FIELD CONSENTA THE GENERAL OPINION BY THE MAR IS THAT MIRO

WILL NOT RESIGN, AS HIS MAIN PUPFOSE WAS A FOLITICAL MANEUVER TO GAIN

THE SUPPORT OF THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY AND TO DISPEL THE OPINION THAT

HE IS MERELY A TOOL OF. THE AMERICAN GOVERNMENT: MIRO HAS ACCOMPLISHED

THIS EXILE UNIFICATION.

11. EUSEBIO MUJAL HAS ISSUED A DECLARATICN IN SUPPORT OF MIRO:

MUJAL IS NOW WORKING ON CARLOS PRIO REPEAT PRIO SOCCARAS AND JULIO

I GARCERAN REPEAT GARCERAN DE VALL Y SOUSA ASKING. THEM TO COME OUT OPENLY!.

C IN SUPPORT OF MIRO:

12. THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEELO (MRP, PEOPLES

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) IS DIVIDED IN ITS PERSONAL FEELING RELATIVE

• i

TO MIRO: HOWEVER THE GENERAL CONCENSUS IN THE MRP IS THAT MIRO'S

FRECIPITOUS STATEMENTS AND ACTIONS. ARE BASEO ON INDICATIONS RECEIVED

DURING HIS LAST TRIP TO WASHIPISTON THAT HE (MIRO) PROBABLY WOULD BE

REPLACED IN THE NEAR FUTURE AS HEAD OF CAC.

13. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

LANSIFICATiON N DISSAMINATICA CONTROLS

---

