# 104-10020-10010

## Page 1

104-10020-10010

PLATE PROGRAM

OSTRACT

eDit

MOSPARE FOR FOLMIG

SO: 13. (2,3,0

LAUSAL AIST. COCE

SECRET

TX-1899

Mira

59/06%

20 January 1964

MEMORANDUM TO Mr. Clark D. Anderson, Legal Attache

FROM

SUBJECT

: Winston M. Scott

MEMO FRUMACOS

Investigation

MEt Daniel SOLiS

Legul Attache

! Lée Harvey OSWALD

1. Roference lo mado to Mr. Anderson's memor andurn of 14 January

1961 reguesting that certain information be obtained from Commel.

2. The following reply was received on 17 January 1964 from

in Merida:

a. Dablel SOLIS 1s a well known municipal policeman in Cozumel.

He has been in thie position for the past eleven (1l) yeare. He has a good

reputation.

b. Daniel SOLIS stated that he had no knowledge of any peron

samed Yiario ROJAS Villanueva. Daniel SOLIS' wife has an uncle who is

named Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramirez and is from Guadalajara. SOLIS

believes this uncle was originally from Manuel Doblado, Guanajuato.

This uncle visited SOLIS in Cozumel about the first two weeks in June 1963.

The uncle arrived by bus to Puerto Juarez and by boat to Corumel. He was

"broke", seeking work. He was without luggage, had only the clothes he

wore. The uncle said his suitcase had fallen from the top of the bus into

the water at an unspecified ferry crossing on route to Merida. The uncle

said the suitcase contained some "important papera" and all his persoal

belongings.

FOIA Review on

c. Daniel SOLIS housed and fed this uncle and got him a job

(temporary) as a bricklayer's assistant. The uncle worked in Cozumel

until about mid-June 1963 and then left for Vera Cruz by boat.

d. The present whereabouts of thie uncle are unknown to Daniel

SOLIS. SOLIS gave hira some clothes and $500 (pesos) upon departure.

MAY 1976

Document Number

486-195

• While at the homo of Daniel SOLIS, the uncle wrote three

lettera to the skippor of she ferry boat trying to recover his suitcase;

SECRET

201-289248

Camagraning and

#7117 TX-1899

RECORD COPY

Pees P-950 ENE4

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ECRET

but he received no reply. The uncle eont no other mail and he received no

mail during this time. The uncle had no notebook of any kind.

1. The uncle had no contact with any Cubans in Cosumel as far au

SOLIS knows. His only associates were & Moxican Air Force Sergeant

named "Polo" and his bricklayer bons, Leonel VILLANUEVA (no relation).

§. The uncle, Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramires, is described by

SOLIS 86:

30 years old, 5'8", abait 185 pounds, stocky, skin "moreno",

black straight hair, mustache and with a long face. He unually worke

& chauffeur or farmer. SOLIS said Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramirer did not

seem subject to aberratione.

3. Neither Daniel SOLIS nor any of several other contacta in Cozumel

have heard of "Albert".

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE. IT MUST NOT

BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE

WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO

CITY®

Distribution:

Orig & Is Addresnee

1: 50-2-4-1

1: P-8593 (OSWALDN

wms/dh

SCORET

#7117

---

