# 104-10186-10101

## Page 1

104-10186-10101

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

"HETURN TO CU

Background Use Only

Do Nat-Papront.

CSCI-316/02546-64

14 December 1984

2

5/MV

COUNTRY CUDA /Dosinican Republie

SUNECT Baldestro CASTRO GarCIA

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Mashington, D. C.

DATE ACQ

1904

FIELD REPORT NO.

TRES IS LILIYALUATED INFORMATON SOURCE GRADINGS ABE DEPINITIVE APPEASAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban

IS officer

who served with the cubar

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

inforzation provided by the source and includes supplemental

inforzation fron the records of this Agency.

t is requested that the addressees take no aetion on any o

he individuals mentioned in the personality reports withou

• first checring with this Agency.

1. Source identified Baldemiro CASTRO Garcla, a

Dominican, as a member of the Marxist-Leninist Movinento

Popular Dominicano (LPD, who was a student at the guerrilia

warare training school in Cuba.

Source only saw CASTRO

once, and this was at the home

of the delegate of the'

pro-CastIo Agrupacion Politica Catorco de Junio (APCS) In

CASTRO was described by source 35 being about

5'8" tall, thin, and wearing a nustache.

4

Headquarters Comments:

1.

The representative of the APCJ in Habana was probably

Socrates Isalis

"Pupo" PEGUERO Sehourer.

A usually

reliable source reported in TDCS-314/05506-64 that

PEGUERO will be removed from his position as representative

o1 she APCJ in Habana, and will be replaced by Daniel

MATIAS Abrau, who is now in Habana.

2.

According

a poc-marked face, kinky hair, and is "pop-eyed "' has

to another source CASTRO 1s white, 5'10"

1

STATE

DIA

REP CISCLAIT

/Note: Field distribain atrai by

1 NAVY

CINCSO #

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I AIR

NSA

FUT 2

IANS

TALSO SENT TO JAITO DOMINGO,

REP

ORT

NORMAT ON REPORT

MisS 503.1

117E1

3IE

INH

1. LI- 1828

1610: 50 PROJECT (ANNUO/1

CSCI316/025-16-6-

LU/SUR

LISA/CIA

15-2

→ RIDIAS

MILINE

11

KiLYSA 8 (1),

1S 1 (2), CI 6, RID 1, AH -(1)

11A180% *

1 Portis visi

• CONDITIE

7H, 2/DR BS: LD:

In draft i Cl/P

008-751913

3

2

---

## Page 2

ECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCX=316/02546-64

3.

In May 19G2 an untested

source, who was then a member of the XPD.

said that CASTRO was probably Secretary of Workers" Affairs OR

the Central Committee of the SPD.

(Sce CS-3/511,325). An

reported In CS-3/561,001 that CASTRO arrived in

74.

September 1963 en route to labana as a

of Architects,

to be held from 29 September to 3 October 1963.

His passport, No. 115933,

issued on 10 September 1963, stated

that he

was born on 5 May 1928 in Santo Domingo and that he was

an industrial enployee.

In December 1963 an untested source, #

member of the APD,

reported that the first rebel groups

the direction of the IPD had been formed at Hato Mayor and at

parties, was under the leadership of Roman Baldemiro CASTRO.

(See TDCS 3/567,279) • In October 1964 CASTRO is reported to have

returned to the

Dominican Republic from Cuba.. (See CS-311/06078-64J•

CASTRO is married to Ana Mercedes ESPINAL, and they have six

children.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

