# 104-10072-10291

## Page 1

104-10072-10291

CI AIRIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

(To

#FO.

DISPATCH

BECAB T

ka

Chios, Nostorn Hoslaphoro Diviao WV

Vie AT P

Chlofo of Stationa.

Chief of Bace

FP

MARNED FOR IMDAXIMO

NO INDEXICO MEQUIRED

DALY QUALITIER DEE

CAA IVODE IN0EXIÃO

Chiof of Statio

BLABJECT

Haitian Extlo Activitioo 1n t9 Dominican Republic

ACTION REQUIRED. RESERENCES

ACTION REQUIRKD:

None, FYI

HEFERINCE:

LParizJ8128, 10 June 1968, er Ch.

WICROFILM

Pylor to his departure

the Dominican Republic

for Pario, Blurry-l provided information on Haltian ex1le

activition

in the Dominican Republic.

Ii vion of the present

activition or laition ox los in Parle, as roportod by lauriTy1,

Information le now being forwarded sof background.

2.

On 30 May 1966,

Godefray

ray hoscoso. A

whito Haitlan who chained

he 1lvedain Venozuela where he le

proaident of the

Partido Unido.

ELXEFYY-1 Fas taken to noe

KOCCO30 at the Hotel Comarcial

in Santo Domingo by Gerard Mar

RAFONTANT, a Haitian Communiet. MO8CO80 provided the following

information:

a .

There aie dO Haitians

aro ready to participata

in a

liaitt.

1w1.06

in venezuela

who

D.

Thore are about 200 Baltien exilee

Doninican Bapublic who

are prepared for

the

вівалоп.

There

are 80,000 Hastiano 11010g 101

thim

Dominican Republic.

c.

MOSCOBU IR

i founder

ot the Kalidad 19r.

17 22 13

secretary of political pattere for tha!

party.

Diatribution:

(ai Chlot,

Vectoru Loudsphoxo Dividiou

1 - Chiof

Of StatIOn,

- Chiof of Station

- Chior of Stardon

2

- F1165

• CK

7- 385

ABU

OS COPY

AAD HUNGER

BRO, CID: 98 2 99

10x-010

LECA:5545

CLASSIFICATION

STEP

1 'Bopcomber 1966

MOS FILE MURDER

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

280-9-18

RS

9934

---

## Page 2

14-0,0000

• iran.

CONTINUATICIN OF

DISPAYCH

BECRET

OIBRATCH BYMBOL ANO NUMERA

2a

/HDCAJ-8845

In Venozuola, be 1o a physloian.

Ho hag an

Intinate relationhip with Vonozuelau President Haul

MorI, and clained that LEONI gave bin a lottor of

introduction to former Doulnican Prenident Juan Bosca

and to the Venozuolan Cona:! General In Santo Dosingo.

KOSCO80 was trying to arrange a nesting with

then Proviaional Preiident Hootor GARCIA GODOY Cocorou

In an offore to vin SARCIA CODOT'o promise tbat ho would

onse the pressure againat Haltian ondleg in the Doninice.

Bepublic and,

11 ponsiblo, provent the lattero expulsion

to Ba1t1.

Moscoso did not criticize tbe expulalon of

soveral Baitiana by dARCIA GObOY, but wanted eo

the Providional President to prevent future action

The Haitian novement in Venezuela received ab

offer

In April 1966 fron Faitiaon Ilving In Cubo of theis

GOrVICES In

any future lovealon of Balti.

The offor bad

boer: rejected

Invaclon force pould da basic

allI

netdonallatic

publie, and would reveal ii0 true

face only

the invagdon

attained nuccess aad took

full control

мовсозо,

who adultted

to being a Marxist, sald be alao underatood tbat

nor ment

connected

with Marrian vould noot sith 0.e.

opposition,

therefere be dooned. The u.f.

stupid, but not

that atupid.

M08c0g0 said he had net

with Obaldo RoA del

Robarto, a member of the Doadnican Communiet Farey

(PCD), on 30 kay

ROA P401844

Cuba

1n March 1966, and received ingtructions shile

there to contact tormer Dominican Constitutionalist

military leaders

who are asgigned to diplomatic poste

in Hurope.)

Moscoso cald he maoted to moet Martha MARTINE?.

mambor. of the Human Blebtu

Conelsaion,

to demand

protection for Baltion exiles in the Donialcon lepubli

Moscoso would life io take the Balean i.

Pennually pradest id hat

most of then sore u.:

for the high loval of ving in

Vonnauele.

This fai posed a problen,

and LAFORTANT BRALE 20%

the Hotel Comercis; W0sC030 nade the

with M03cus0

conconta"

The U.B, Covoranont whal

2oo0 ouat Maltina

Dickator Francoig DUVALIEN and tostals choir ver

Đ.

The regime in Cuba do a dictatorelip, tho

adainiatration of Governmental affaire la very Luoredone.

it luva

sooting,

LAFONTANT tOld BOScoNd tha:

ERY, a Cuban who obtained esplonivon for biu to uno

In tho firet

Invasion againat Haiti, was living in the Doninican

Bapublic.

LAVONTANT dISCILDOd BEY AS A LORRAI COLLAbOrNEOr 0E

hit was aor nor or Monking toros

Andrart Bald that the Connuniot oriented 14th of June

Revolutionary Movemont

(un-l4) had on

DiD (RRY) 01 boing & FORACY agent,

but this was not trud.

obtain oxplodives within 24 hourg after the requent to ande.

SWOLLON

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLARBIFICITION

DISPATCH SYNDICE WAS TURNIN

'CONTINUATIC NOP

DISPATCH

On 10 Juno 1000, 50WTY -1 mold that mum bac

naned Done Viaur to be in

oharge of the Baition underground

covesent in the Doniolon Repubilo.

Vinur ma named on

June at tie Hotel Cosoroial.

No scoso planned to leave lor

•Venesuola on 8 June 1960.

rait

3N01L0000Se

(

---

