# 104-10172-10335

## Page 1

1104-10172-10335;

RETUANTO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

ADI

DESPATCH NO

SEGRETO.

FO

TrOM

0108, 18

DATE -

30 Aly 1958

Drea dutal ol statle

Adal el S88t10n

adol di Fatles

RITE ECI

A. LOPLE 1772, 23 2y 3956 (to londrastore only)

EH, 19 D 175 (81

14-1

(enly)

1. A ses dayo arder undilas raferado da 18 ouldenlo cocurrod to

ese unendenal that l6 ma ratar errontary for a dorlos elpleo lo

coll as laurtass profoncer che ho, ino sorios, conadered tho Ante

hare ho tonches cathartio. Il le 1n ulling to ba leurored "

corrondenta il the lniveralty os Mellgaa nod Ball the pocas miat to

sold tho Anoricon Cultural Assato 1s Malalatl, De. Lautes Ot8, te

ought to have e escallent AssTura stes, mich ident do entitled Morios

lo s01r Coenty, er mathing lita tet. Do loot theo for palliontles

of eugh un ertale la Plalead, di losor, unda lo tho voto bafaro tho

midpel aloctione in saptester 195e.

I muld sot apporr la tha Fantet

Prese tirot, las mald bato to da platel up son tho preso os enter

COU5108.

2. Tor tha Demole el lo suallena to ilon thie dagatet do bole

aso, tho fallodng alli perto do baelycouad informations

SECRET

298°,5, 51-28A

23

528-126-0-21

---

## Page 2

SECRET,

00

ON INS

Pago No

20 Jay 1936

appilad tor tdo 0100.

* Cano consta, a Tear d or to so per en roa

Minasad Cementos,

Aned uto 1o Soviots bad ma

broaghe their Pinnial Irond, an al the sorlote reallod,

"No do not 11to to sapodato sa thoro Mandat Coumalato.

Many al there communera no mould bebrey tels on country

ald aloo berry the soror ados toe. Iou can't Brant

-=

The above Informilon eum tron the lowlean Citural 11100e

and 1o duvald of may Importass dosallo

so dabsdos him beloro ho loft tinlando 0b

th can

•Sorior. Broter, so cult ethn la malad so bacon paren

graza nich than to unre roodtire lla nos to cho Ussa. The Sovieta 1a

Malainid have been quito eager to ansedato dith nor cola, mariona,

such do Pulbrigal studento end touriose to appal Dussies. Pressmaly

n10 lo loo patter 1n ether covatrios 1o0. Is fast, on lge even my

nor vetera edial dil to antastilly altivasad by the serioto, 1i

cho tro onoco horo 1n Halolall apo a valli indiesion.

al Dartbort. In tho sapo ol the Intsar, do una bold by the Borlote

or that they meld fire llo ano to oom al thats "Stlendo" Lis Borlot

IMelal reproventation Is Men Lort.

dil provida the same

nd addrusono el Finalus elabora lo Onlo, copenhaços nd lona, so sha

POse, 18 cAn bo mallod Lesotlately to lso Tantal ollars in piuotlos.

20 J0L7 1956

Maria ni postood

} - Hado

159?

77-"

SECRET

TT

"gio

---

