# 104-10172-10273

## Page 1

104-10172-10273

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

UNCLASSIFIED

SURECT. Darenall

FROM.

RID/ARD/DU

G E 58

TO.

Othere deepestion, mars tarmber, and

E./RHO

- 58/2110

8.

.

10.

88.

12.

RID/AN

RID/EDI

13.

K10/FL

is.

Д-а:

VAÜNK

LANAL

USE ONLY

¡'ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIUENTIAL

SECRET

REVIEW OF PROCESSED OUT MATERIAL (POM)

{897130S0

2812

7 22

DATE

DeFICIT'S

BURIALS

13 MAn 8

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REVIEW OF

PROCESSED OUT MATERIAL (POM)

The CS Records Committee has

instructed that the attached

document be reviewed by res-

ponsible desk personnel. You

are to dotermine whether the

document should be retained,

coordinated or destroyed. Each

reviewer is responsible for

assuring that documents

necessary to protect CS opera

tions and to assist in the

effective discharge of CS

responsibilities

are not

destroyed.

Check the appropriate box:

I Retain (forward to RID/AN

with filing,

indexing or

X-referencing instructions)

Coordinate (forward to

appropriate desk)

Destroy (have an R. 0.

complete the stamp below

and forward to RID/ARD/DU)

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action is

authorized:

MB

Signed:]

Note: Ir destruction, cite

reaselzaity +0 201-150156

GEIGERY TEFININ COLMS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

201-15.196

UNCLASSIFIED

03

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

um pras.

SECRET

(WHEN PALEO INT

ROUTING AND RECORD SHSET

FRON:

TO

WEl.

Fin

RIO

FENIAN

ROOM

NO.

195

DATE

ARCTIITO (MONIANDEO

ORBICIOS

BRETE RETR

20

DOCÜMENT8ÜM8I8 OFHA-02872

DOCUMENT DE:E

COMMENTS

NOTE: Il a copy or arrachmente ar remorad trom eso a.

Rachod durunnos usto te lorarian el the ropp sodior alect

Mor DerPOR E da MODORD COPY la 1O De relrod la

são aline el do inel call the Castal Fulo Section los par

esanal Jo#

CHRONO - DETACKED

LUF-I/CE

SK/CA

25.985

wew

X

10.

8&

om

FILE TITLE

@sat.off rep.InFNINND

•19t

FiLE NUMBER

23

ENCLOSURE

le FI/F:

114001

ABSTRACT

SECRET

ZIBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

VIA:

•22

DISPATCH NO. _

10: 111-3372

28-2-19

TO

: Chier, 15

FROM : Chie: st station

14-1

DATE: _ 14 Cister 1957

Info:

Chief, Sit

•ction seruined: None, for inforastion only.

-Ol 1..

3a exely urust 1957, Crigorl COWB called on V. CCTV:/I and arked that

V.CCIz/A agra him in advance

11 ang Soviet official were about to be thrown

out of Ani's as persona non crate, and he would personally see to it that the

man left Finisai quietly and Inmodistely!! V/l says he replied in a stern and

angry manner, since when does a little diplomat with the low rink of second

secretary presuse that he la so powerful as to ranove officials of his own country

fron Finland"

If you are really chit powerful, who are you anyway and whit are your..

real duties here in Finland?"

This unexpected answer allegedly disturbed GOLB

sufficiently ts.t the subjeot was pursued no further.

2 alLiss cuastion do interestine in vou of the Settlin oparation.

We are trying a find out the exact date of the conversation.

also sald on li Secober that Ivan SETSHKIN, 2190 1 kno

cise) will bo learing Finland POS in the week of 21-27 October 1957.

This sakes

tho second SIS cise officer to leave Inland lOS in Ccuoter 1957.

COLUB himself

left Finlan: di: His funily In early Septenber. and has not yet core back.

Ivan VORDEY T left with family on 1 October 1957.

id tentleton

13 October 1957

Sistribution:

2

— SR

2

1

144154, 51-28A

CLASSIICATON

241150156

MIBe

---

