# 104-10408-10027

## Page 1

104-10408-10027

DU/P .1 :1220

20.11 9

-

MENGRANDUN DOR, Deputy Direstor (Plana)

SUBJECT

s Rolatod llnsion Directive for Noxioo

Kerteo®

Attached 10 the revised Related Mission Directive for

prova. 1a requested.

song

chien ma Divinio

CONCUR:

Signed S. N. WINES

0 C

Not Me Xore

24 Jamary 1961

Distributions

APPROVED!

ichardien

spaty BIrector (Plans)

JUN 1961

paroved

R

RI

.: 0227

---

## Page 2

13-00000

RELATED MISSION DIRECTIVE FOR MEXICO

I. DENIERAL PROVISIONS

A.

the long-range national polloy objoo-

ives of the u.S. Ccverment toro Actioo are to reduc

to an inoffeotual level the Influence of Internationa

communia, to encourage demoratio sovernment, and to

keep the Mexican govermant filendly and favorably in

clined toward V. 8, Dollolen. Parther guidance 18 Elver

In the current OCB Regional Operationa Plan for Latin

AneriCa.

B.

Operational Exphasio. The Station's primary esphasla

will continue to be pieced on landesting collection 2

2%

operations and covert action operations assinst the

sno-soviet bloc, cubans and comunist elementa in rexico.

C.

Changes in the RD.

Thle baolo polloy Instruction for

aotivittes in lesloo has been revised in light of the

Station's last Annual Assensment of Progreas Report and

to reflect more aocurately operational conditione, oap.

billtles and direotion.

In view of the importaace and

threst presented by Connunist Cuba to U. 3. Interests 1n

latin America, coverage of Cuban revolutionary astivitiea

In Monico has been made a specifio roguirement under

Priority A. Priority B objectives and tanks lnclude

rofirements of desired afforts and aldo provide for covert

action oparations against cuban targots in rosioo.

former task for production of notion pitures and their

distribution has been deleted, as 1t is no longer & valld

requirement; tho former tasks pertaining to the possible

une of foroian diplomats havo been combinedy & 6486 Co

develop young potential politloal leaders (2R0Kh/ haro

keen added. Two previous Priority C objectives have been

elininated, as there 1s no established fazlean 1ntel11-, 21

•and the station regally reports on

Betivities of the l

RiCoverage of Chinese

Cormunists has been raised to Friority & cosmoldent with

the elimination of the former priority C sectler.

D.

Contingengy Reporting®

In addition to the specifie

Objectives bet forth

1n Section Il, the Station will from

time to time be called on to attenpt to satiafy Intelligene

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Guides and Intelligence Dirmotives, but it 1s expected

that these requirements be satisfied itlilaing extating

asseta. Of particular interest on a continuing basis

18 Inforation on: (a) any Indications that Mexico may

be uned as a base for clandestine aotivity direoted

againat the U. 8. (CI Book Messages 88 and 115); (D)

sotivitles of non-bloe Intelligence servides, especially

those that are potentially harmful te U. 3. Interests;

(o) the plottine of revolutionary groupe according to

their current importance in attempts to everthrow the

robines of their respective Latin American countries;

(d) the current alignment and activitles of political 24

nt 8010r chi 24

forces with the potential for assuning control of the

Fezican Government? (e) U.S. Conmunists residing in

Moxioos and (5) the Spanish/Coamunist Ercup.

It will be noted that certain previous sontingency

reporting requirenents have been, amended as follows:

The former levy for reporting on the stabllity of the

Nexlean Government has been changed to a nore reallatie

and meaningful statemant as reflected by (d) above.

me moditcation 1s appropriate, as political changes

in lenco are nut strel to occur ulthan the renework

of constitutionality.

the prevlous charge for reporting

on secret shipments of strategio materials from Herlad 24

to bloe countries 18 no longer specifically required and

has been doleted

OBJECTIVES

PATORIET A

1. Obtain information on Sino-Soviet bloc plans and activi

ties in Nezloo, Inoluding those of bloo Intelligence

serviced.

continue and, were possible, Increase physical and

teonnies surveilance of bloc installations and

residenoes.

inrougn controled agent assets, Identity and nand tor

the aotivities of bloc personnel; 1f conditions

sarrant,

attempt roomitment or detection of bloc

personne..

2

3/RS

---

## Page 4

13-00000

.

Continue CI operations againat bloo intol leance

personnel.

Seek to reduce and, If possible, eliminate Communiat

and leftlet control or influence in key govermontal

24

and nor governmental organisations, political parties,

mass medie outlete, and other elemente that influence

pubile or offloiallopinion and poldolea.

24

Develop politioal action penetration arents in key

Punotional groupe. I

In order te disrupt and reduce

RY

thels capadity for carrying out action harnfui to

U. S. ebjectives and interests.

Expose and diacalt Illegal or subvereive S1n0-

soviet bloe aotivities and representatives in Mexico,

as vet as the sotinties and parsonned of Inter

national and local Connunist front organizations.

08

Identify, discredit, and if possible eliminate

Commmints and oro-tommnlate fron atrateste positiona

1n/

24

24

Provide support and sive guidande to Individuals and

organtzatione that con be induced to produce and d18-

seminate anti-Comuniet, pro-free world propagande

RY

against

Communist of other anti-t. S. elenents.

Identify, develop, and utilize Important non-Communist

Leaders /

p againat Coma

under nrisence and inauce then to support viewa

colnelding with U.s. coverment polley interaste.

continue to support and guido anti-ecomunlati

2Y

and when necessary, develop additional assets in key

24

3

1º1R

---

## Page 5

13-00000

3.

de

27

It conditions

varzant, mate

aoiected recruiteents in the,

}

4.

Dovelop and support!

Tea the

starte of l

24

Develop

80008s

• to Individuale and organtzations

zya the

labor field and support non- Comminiat

Loadere and groups in dey unlons 27

Obtain Information

anti-u. S.

groups that may be susceptible to exploitation ly Inter-

nationai Commandal.

Exploit and antend exiating penetrations in the

0.

Mentala penetrations of the

24

Dovelop and. It condition warrant. reorult & key

sorree in thol

, end bloc

arpicnatie installationa.

RY

against the CASTRO regine.

continue to conduot penetration oparations of Cuban

ambassy and Induce defections of Cuban diplomats.

Boorult agents /In Maniod for operational une in

Cuba.

secure support of

for the enduot uf operations agalaot Cubay 24

d. Continue to provide operational support for aotivities

VERS

---

## Page 6

13-00000

1.

3.

directed against the CASTRO regime in cube.

24

UE121ee propaganda

I to combat the intimence

of

Cuben revolutionary 1deologies In Mexloo.

PRIORITY E

24

Combat ultra-ustionallatle and ant1-U. I, sotivities 1n

Kerleo, and propagandize the dangers of conar

de

to combat ants-U.S, propaganda or activities.

utillne exiuting

prevent or nogate coliaboration botree

assets

sasets to

Atra nationail

and Comunists.

24

Ut111ze

Jansote to prevent

or negato the coolo arononic and aultural penetration

plans or actvities of the 81n0-soviet bloo.

24

da

spot and develop] for future covert collaveration young

socal tigres no show potential for political loader

ship and no may be intruenced to beoone cenerally

ravorabie to U.s. intoresto.

Obtain Information on the neoret Intentions and activities

In foreign affairs, particulariy

toward she l, sg, the Sino somet bloe, and cuba.

Continue to develop

and Influence hin level contacte

Collect inforntion on the 81no-soviet bloo.

Continue penetration of alriine and steamahid officea

and articlal coverment scencies? to obtain advanca

Information on travellere.

24

Sorult or obtain the villing collabration of selected

travellers to bloo countries, especially those who sill

remain in bloo countrien for an extonded period and

sho may be on solentifle niaalone.

5

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Recruit third nationals and Latin merican

diplomats to be asnigned or traneferred to loc

countries.

obtain comnication intelligence on blos diplo-

Obtain Information on the Chinese Coumlat in Mexico.

and dead, rosalt or develop auroca la tho

Nexteo and effoot penetration

of the

on chinese zening in

27

---

