# 104-10264-10116

## Page 1

104-10264-10116

-. G04 4.

1:723 1991

NOUIING

Ria RICcZ0 SHELT

PHIOR TO FILING

1.

F:11

: F.

Seet.

2

Oa

back. Dotach bas

and fortaid to

2.

Iinp

RID.

Dest.cy front cover

abirat

unlegg

1t

reco.üs siga::16art

action

taxen or

comsenla regülrirp preservation.

FROM:

RID/

=-lAM.

TO

CI STAO

HO0N

NO

DATE

GrpIcy

ПОРТАЛЕНО

17 FL6

1961

TO: ACTION BRANCH

il filo no. and tiele ghoun

are not

fiopor. Ingort proper

falo no. belou

aid formard docuscnt to RID/AN.

PPOPER PILE NO.

TO: ALL ADORESSEFS

PI6L IN BICTION I ON BACA, I' APPROPRTATE

COMMENTA

-

, astae

jina

клям

WHlM/et

Wiftl reneie

8.

C/WH/4

10.

10H 4/ security

Keanedy

12.

WH/4/ex/R2

RI/AN

WH/4/C7/BW1H

WE/5/isns

sayPt

'ДАСІ

LOUIST

DATE HICROPILNEO

1ya A10a til pesrabae

aDeTAdAd

% %

FWTt

Ett

3 /3

"/3

АВЕТНАСТ

IMO8S

BOR

Ruitit

4-9: FY5

nresleeds to say

That neroge and

LIOR- DOVORGAN, ACTING

AS CASTRO Abents, be-

trayed hundreds of

decent, anti-romenunest

ltd +e

Cubars

sic os

confenieel tothe

smmes prisin. K

12- 19: Subgect is Clay GU.TIENAE2

meurgo,

• Mlisre

changet

yritustse. Rhst

XPFT

14-123-22

FIUE TITLE

PILA RLNBGA.

DART CO0G1

2:1- 269349

riparrs

WMENT NUMGLA

1210886

14d,

OCE

13513

SECRET

r oo i po

hnord

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

BENDER WILL CHICK CLASS

¿ATION TOO AND BOTTOM

"FiDENTIAL

SIAMAT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

MAME AND ADORES

INITIALS

DATE

actre: 206289 Reman

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCORRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATIOM

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Hemarkat

Rif: WH-36

attacid 3- 700.010

from oned Was is no ton office.

fer yous informatin.

Cc: W'H/4

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME. ADDRESS ANO PRONT NON 2 Z 6 8

S. Stetsm, CD/D0, Sir+ Bianci

UNCLASSIFIED

OONFIDESTIAI

DATE

1/3/61

SECRET

(40)

MARADIOA

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SE!

66E / 3515

#04-4108160

Chief, Contact Divialon

Atta:

support Branch

Cafer, Massington Offlee

ARP Coner Over Holding Of Manoro Berigue Gruly

30 Jamary 1961

ranking Cubin defectors wure being bold by U. 8. Dulgration

uthorities. They had escaped by boet after hiving remined 1

be Chatro Coverument for unny monthe as part of the underground

Their Loader is Outserros Menoo, 'renter L'to

Spaniab CIVIl lar and vell know laftint. for thie renson, he and

his colleagues are probably ruspect. Mapolo Rey negotiated vita

Manoyo three timen In Havana 1n October ad Bovenber 1960, while

he vas setting up the i. R. 8. underground, and vas never betrayed.

The N. R. P. belleves that Gutierres and his group are sincerely

at1-Castro and asluted le 1ta encape from Cuba.

3. I Intated that the defoction as these important people

1o a blou to Castro became they can becane inportant londers in

the lacembray. They intend to go back to Cuba to fight actively.

#. II they are actually Commulsts, the N. R. P. belleres thet

this can be discovered in time, but it fears that their being hold

by U. 8. artborities my vill discourage other aintlar defections and,

M. B. P. toldi

om safoty" or some sued, which would prevent Castro tran obtaining

a prychologionl advintage.

5. The sbove Information vas passed to Itr. Beans, the 00/C Dut,

Tricer, on 28 January 1961

I J. Eberiden

5-24057

60 G031

561-269319

---

