# 104-10006-10270

## Page 1

1104-70006-102701

FROM:

(Requesters name)

BADGE NO.

BRANCH

ROOM

EXTENSION

TO

TUBE

ROOM

NITIALS

RID/INDEX

DT - 5

3/3/64

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT -6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS,

GT • 7

R1D/201

DW. 6

RID/MIS

GT - 6

RID/INDEX

SURNAME

D

UMAMANTOV

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHESTO

Ily 2

ARA. ALIASES

EETN

SECRET

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

CHECKING

INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

A.

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership,

Naturall U.S.

1955

Leed su

USSR

Geologet, fun dil Co

ITIZENSHI®

U, 5

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

allas, Texas

COMMENTS

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSIRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green

diagonal line across the

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

luctions, also return pertinent documents

per tune etes at the doser le a 201 or

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

• For each document to be included in th

onsolidation (i.e

cards

to indicate:

•, copy or cross reference

to be placed in the 201 file), green D th

(a)

cards to be destroyed (mark with

corresponding card and check (a) or (b)

green D and note reason for destruction)

below;

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or

less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding Infinity symbol oo when

card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

(a) - 20180)1date into

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION CIE any)

OTHER INFERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

ASS TENES™

TYES

I NO

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD,

and those that

meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the Cs Main Index.

If yqu

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

RID

DESK

Note 2. Information concerning foreigr

public personalities (except mili-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ANANTOFF, Inu

C00ca26

1012.

44-5-3-1

83

10020016

12011

2ae 105

MAMANTOV fnu

IN 40570•

163

Germany - 20 Apr 48

Extracted from MSBA-1617. IL Apr. Absinthe

invited to Soviet Press Club Party by Green-

berg (CF BSC-778 MGB3982) attended also by

Budakin of Tass and Mamantov and Kushernikova of

SNB. .

Explanation current travel restrictions.

I XERO

cop

---

