# 104-10534-10110

## Page 1

104-10534-10110

SECRET

NIAC

Bert Duce

no as statec

Dietributtan

Origanel Ind 1 - Addreasse, v/att

AB Cese 4630, v/att.

1

AB File, w/att.

L - AB Chrono, w/att

DD/P/TSD/AB/1:D. Bowanko: prk

SECRET

Exauded from automatis

dowigradina aod

declassification"

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Attachment tos

AB Memo To. 679i4

Tone comments are based en m manlysis of 15 exempta

only tro of there exemplare vere inaued tia Moscow, the area

anty three (3) ofthe available

exemplare were sosuad artor early 1957.

It In apparent thereton, that e thorough study of thie

ocument 1e not possible, especially as pertains to a specifie

owever, certain unrel informtion does become alumr a

i presented in the following counte

the doerment currently in we bus a ten-catered

stiff peper cover (oard bourd type) and la eproximately B5x122m

The state seel on the front sover contate 11, 26 or 15 bands

dependins on the gormi (priating your). The seal end words VID

DA PHTTKLISIVO V SESR UJA LITS are printed In black inky the

vardE BEZ CRAZIDANSTVA are in blue lak. The document containe 12

amiered theon plus the inalde back cover. The undertint ie a red,

pins md blue repent pattom done by the sat process. The text

18 Junted in black Into The varde 15Z CRAZIDAISTVA Are prINDed 10

blus tol fran bottan to top of ench pege, Unitie the other tiro

Internal identity documente (PASPORE ONd VID HA ZITTEL SYVO DIXA

INDETRANTSA) used lu the soviet tinion so regulation or instructione

and apparently serves the some purpose. The bearere of mubject

docent apper to be subjocted to a more rigid contril than normal

PASPORT bearers.

Ar 1A6M2&C

Mrdgrating and

declassificatton

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

Attachment tor AB Memo Mo, 679%

etetten."

the tem

MvD sate HOP (nintmertes for the Prote

en took place, dursag An

nG and Be

at le initially made

average tour (4) per pogs, pegas

l within to yoers, that

parad thing anly one

umbern of enter decunt then tv or

these thie

6 and

7 vonla be

nots of loon

obed

We beaten

the mber of exa

tion of the serial mabering &

3n 10o beta dan

In thedr areas. These supples would be replentahed with addition-

] blocks when neces. The 111) in of the doct mobably 1n

made Inanity, All versal mubers are preceded by the litte

(nentficntee unto) and contara sir (6) ditte

conttnued/

SEURET

G-16:

Exciuded to::

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

meat toss AB Memo Ho: 679%

PAge -3

mereland at that

* the cant to att

I$ 10 1

that tode samment, arsel dimes 31J4T9, be

matic tree to

the 1011

aubject doguns

Fore 1

ng are the dontente or the ll yages of

a cost mis

Page 2:

200

over sho

were not atgred).

Date on the bearer.

Date of birth (esther your only or complete

date)e

Pince of birth.

Mattomlity.

thence ant date bearer arrived in the USER.

Profession nad type of work.

contined/

SECRET

;..::

c: salomait

ingrating and

*: sitate

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SEGRET

Attachment tos AB Meino F0, 679%

Page

6.

Pon12y status.

T.:

Lent citison

mati

attonship and dooment beste

antions toeluded ta benrer"s

eat are Linded on this you.

und 5:

the aste, remitting the bearer to reutde

3a a Even col. Tie tulsdating alesatara,

al lenit In the Mbedoy 1rauod enempter In

that of an ovza official, Trivel to other

cidea le also reflected here. Tre (2) of

the malleble exemplars shor travel. Da

oh one s rectree permit entry ta mode

but leoving on a trip. this entry.

mandes a length of stay deeditne.

not those two eep, (the pre for

i Do emplar peterred to mbovel, anothe

entry une made upon retur to place of

the corial mmber also appears at

the botton

of pigs 5.

continued/

-SECRET

nading and

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

Attachment to: AB Mino 10- 679h

Fuge -5

Pages 6 and 7"

Pages 8 and 9.

Pages 10 and 11

inaluded in the benduritten entry, All

mon rigistrations impeer above the

signature of a ovIn offlelal or OVER

representative.

Are for noral militan or OVIR residence

ragintration and deregiotrations.

midity orbinion ter one (1) yemr,

these extenst

bus are validated b

OVIR.

The porns appe

are it the bottom of

page 1

(lotes Some of these entrlen end cachete my appear on the vrong rege.)

SECRS

Excluded from automatic

downgrading 'and

---

