# 104-10132-10075

## Page 1

104-10132-100751

TO

FROM :

EATIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108

"T 1061 EDITION

-195A 6ay

85G. 10. 27

• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

Chief, Personnel Security Division

Special Assistant, Chief/PSD

03

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE: 1 June 1964

SUBJECT:

#58479

1. In compliance with your request, the Subject was

Interviewed on 27 May 1964 relative to the information

she reported to Mr. John R. Pherson, Security Officer/

DDS&T, which 18 indicated as Tab A.

2. Upon interview, the Subject repeated substantially

the same information that is reported in Mr. Pherson's

memorandum.

Adaitional Information indicates that Subject

definitely identified the telephone caller from the Prince

George County Maryland ballot as Mrs. Kathryn N. Sherwood.

Mrs. Sherwood's name"appeared as 33-E on the ballot.

3. During the telephone conversation Subject stated

that she came under the definite impression that Mrs. Sherwood

resides in the Oxon Hill, Maryland area due to the fact she

mentioned thot some road construction as being done whieh bes

bosa-dene in the Oxon Hill area recently.

4. Subject stated that she did not desire to place

pressure on Mrs. Sherwood for further information concerning

the reme and wereabouts of the "ex-CIA Courier" who told Mrs.

Sherwood that President Kennedy would be assassinated end the

President's assassin would also be assassinated.

Subject ad-

vised that Sherwood stated that the "ex-CIA Courier" lived in

West Virginia (city or town not given) where there was a

cafeteria. Sherwood advised the Subject that the food did

not agree with the "ex-CIA Courier" and she (Sherwood) took

him into town for meals.

Sherwood further indicated that the

"Courier" told her that he "had too much knowledge" indicating

that the latter was the reason he left the Agency. Sherwood

stated that the "ex-Courier" told her a lot of things relative

to people in high places in the Government which was quite

shocking and the Information worrled her (Sherwood) very much.

Document Number

for FOIA Review on

1279-466A

FEB 1977

don racing nos

---

## Page 2

5. Subject advised that during her voting experience

she had made It a point to vote for the men and not the

party. Elaborating, Subject stated that she liked

Roosevelt and voted for Eisenhower. Subject stated that

she advised Sherwood during the telephone conversation that

she liked President Kennedy's stand in Cuba whereupon

Sherwood said "too bad he was selling us down the river".

Sherwood did not elaborate on the latter statement accord

Ing to the Subject. Subject stated that the telephone

conversation lasted about one half hour and upon discon-

tinuance of the conversation she (Subject) advised her

husband. Mrs. L

advised that her husband is in

sensitive work with the Air Force and immediately advised

Subject to report the telephope conversation to proper

officials of the Agency 03

Istated that she could not

give further clues concerning the identity of the "ex-CIA

Courier" or the location in West Virginia where Sherwood

associated with the "ex-CIA Courier"

I requested the Subject to keep me advised of any

additional calls, information or contact with Sherwood.

I recoumend that the attached information be

passed to Mr. Cregar by the DC/PSD.

LAB: 15b

in sinfo.

ines

Leland E. Bunn

---

