# 104-10186-10045

## Page 1

104-10186-10045

RETURN TO CIA

Boreround Use On

NFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Angelito (INU)

REPORT NO.

DATE DiSTR

CS CI -316/02285-65

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page

10)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

196&

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

•DATE ACO. (February 1965).

LEE UNMANATO SOMAHON ROUSE OMANOS AN ONE OMANO CONTIN IS TONAIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personallty

information provided

by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the

records of this Agency

first checking with this Agency.

Angelito (LNU) 1s, according to Source, & Spantard. His name

ntedligence Jet concerning reports on students

ave been Instructine Guatemalan guerrillas.

He may

1.

Headquarters Comment.

The records of this Agency revead no

Identifiable Information on Angelito (LNU)

5

SE-C-RE-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CISCSO =

(Nore: Field distribution indicated by "d .)

NAvY

I&NS

AIR

NSA

T-OCR

IFBI

SINFORMATION RERORT

"WHC: CN

1176E/5/8

THC7NO

HET

1 CIZREA

AHC TRE

20г

8HC /OS

RID/AN

WHC /HAVE

TOTAL WHC & (1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

INFORMATION REPORTE

ITE

УТЕ/

L/ HASIE

18-2423

NP (AUMUG-I)

CSCI-316/02285-

65

COO-DINATING AS

119180% #

4gQ

---

