# 104-10059-10210

## Page 1

104-10059-10210

TRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Executive Ragistry

35 - 6024

INSPECTOR GENERAL

75-1519

28 April 1975

Mr. David W. Belin

Executive Director

Commission on CIA Activities

Within the United States

Dear Mr. Belin:

In accordance with your request, I am forwarding copies

of sensitive Agency documents concerning Chile. One is a copy

of Director Helms' notes of a September 15, 1970 meeting with

the President. The other is a memorandum for the record pre-

pared by William Broe, then Chief of the CIA Western Hemisphere

Division. It's the last sentence of paragraph 2. of Mr. Bro's

memorandum that reflects apparent Presidential provisos.

Faithfully yours,

Esknocha

E..'H. Knoche

Assistant to the Director

Attachments: a/s

SECRET

Classifieel br

014359

Exempt from genoral

deciassilicatian cohaddle of E.O. 11652

exempiion stiraduls 63 (1%, (3), (3)

Automaticady declassifad ón

Diato insessitio lo Delarmino

5847

aft to D06# 4048

---

## Page 2

14-00000

75-jde-

17 September 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Genesis of Project FUBELT

1.

On this date the Director called a meeting in connection

with the Chilean situation. Present in addition to the Director were

General Cushman, DDCI;. Col. White, ExDir-Compt; Thomas

Karamessines, DDP; Cord Meyer, ADDP; William V. Broe, Chief

WH Division; James Flannery, Deputy Chief, WH Division, Thomas

Bone, Coma

Polgar,

Chief,

Covert Action, WH Division; and Raymond Warren, Chief, WH/4.

20

The Director told the group that President Nixon had

decided that an Allende regime in Chile was not acceptable to the

United States. The President asked the Agency to prevent Allende

from coming to power or to unseat him. The President authorized

ten million dollars for this purpose, if needed. Further, The Agency

is to carry out this mission without coordination with the Departments

of State or Defense:

3. During the meeting it was decided that Mi. Thomas

Karamessines, DDP, would have overall responsibility for this

project.

He would be assisted by a special task force set up for

this purpose in the Western Hemisphere Division. The Chief of

the task force would be Mr. David Phillips,

and Deputy Chief of the task force would be

4. Col. White was asked by the Director to make all

necessary support arrangements in connection with the project.

5. The Director said he had been asked by Dr. Henry

Kissinger, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs,

SECRET / SENSITIVE

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 3

14-00000

to meet with him on Friday, 18 September to give him the Agency's

views on how this mission could be accomplished.

William V. Broe

Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET/SENSITIVE

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

MEETING WITH PRETENT

ON CHILE AT I5ZE SEPT IS,ITO

PRETENT: TOHN MITCHELE TIENNY ILSSINGER

Iin to chance phope, but same chile!

not emered with innel

full - tune

Same plan

mahe the inny seriou

48 hou

I plan y estim

whit

imin

MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT

ON CHILE

1525, 15 SEPTEMBER 1970 - -

PRESENT WERE:

JOHN MITCHELL AND HENRY KISSINGER

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DD07453

in eate of son dea

MONCEANAUA FOR:

Deputy DIroctor HOr P1445

aoquest for Approval to scorlde

Polyeraph Upcrator or Debulk of the

united states Sockot ScryCO

Thas monorindus contaios i recooncudotion for

One approval LE porarip 1170.

cu 25 Soptator 1995 the Son irancisco Dosestic

Opernisons Base Informed Hocdonarter thut through 17.

outublisher contect they hod incorcherod forue Augusto

Taphoto Carranes, to cloirod to bo activo so a Creerilla

in Cinterrin and

acacras and that he mona Vorce datonio

Ven gone, Arburo Recco Escobar die "2l thing" Red Jorg

Karin donzo Correnaa aro plotting the ceoccolection er

27024dexd

Ticherd 1. 123014

19 cchodulod Boz Docember 1906•

Male infounction Ves

pussod to tho ledezal Dureau of invocki ation and the

Occret sorvice by the DO lood 16 Saa Trancisco.

Cn 1 October 1900 the Pocret Corvice an TaclAp mong

officer

Anovedgesble of Cuctcanão, scolnutossez estivistee

to san Francisco do debret Dagnera 3u order Co J142e

validity of the Intoineros zepardog the alan to acuade

3 matc

tin Presidont

1e. Darry jondoc, state choloyas

presently utationnd 1n Moadco City, vee dolitiad i Fe

Ironovt of Hendguarions to perform the debráctior.

to loyden acocated by cale da

§ Octobor 7006 thak ho

had hold lenathy Corcinting

scouions sit Birders 00

October 1507,

200020606 10 20C

Azaden, Ciplero

oratited soot knowlode of Cubecalan 2oyo70ldo0n23

alloped annascination plot sconcd pollicky.

suppectod tliat a polyaraph croutescion radis bo do deser.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

- 201000

4 On 9 Occobor 1969 Hr. Villian Thodunda, Secret

Service Agent, said that tho secret service preicrred to

volt until the complote dobriering report had bcon reccived

before subnitting Digboro to a polygraph examination.

20 October Mr.

Rhosands aadd that it appocrs that his

service vill want a po-feraph eraninat on of bighoro

conductod and requented that, it poaceble, this Igoncy

provide the polygraph operator.

He said that the socret

Service would proviie cover for the operator in Zan

Franciaco.

It lo recommended that the Agoncy provide the

support reguosted by the secret service in oruer to tay

to rosolve the matter of tho plot agranat the 115c oi

Prosident Nixon as reported by Diphero.

Thoretore, approval

1s roquestad to honor the Socret Service's exproscod desire

that this Agency make a polycraph operator and i spaniel

speaking Ml Division officer available for travel to Box

Francisco.

W1271an V. Broc

Vostern Honksphere Divinion

ADDD

Offico of security

The rocontendition contrined in

paragraph five

2E APPIOVID:

19/ Toas G, Vermossines

Toptity Director

20r

P2025

104 DOT 1000

is te

---

