# 104-10326-10028

## Page 1

104-10326-10028

MAPINO?

97-7895762

SECRET

"SENSIND: "RYBAT

-*-=

SECRET

PAGE:

1

-PR-P:

STAFF

ACTION:

97 7895762

1634)

INFO:

LIMITED, MDSX; ODPD,

ASR

RYBAT, FILE (2/W)

TOR:

PAGE

001

1410252 MAY 97

IN

7895762

74725

SECRET 1410262 MAY 97 STAFF

CITE

74725

TO:

DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM

SLUGS :

WNINTEL RYBAT BRACERB

INFO

SUBJECT:

REF :

A.

B.

74714 97 7885941

74711

977884733

TEXT :

1.

PARTICIPANTS -

ASSET CRYPT: BRACERB/17

RECRUITED

OTHER (S) :

OPS ALIASES USED

ASSET ALIAS:

C/O ALIAS:

OTHER(S) ALIAS:

DATE OF MEETING:

12 MAY 97

D. TIME OF MEETING: 1545-1630

E. TYPE OF MEETING: PERSONAL

F. (1) PLACE(S) OF MEETING:

COS RESIDENCE PATIO

(2) MAP GRID:

G.

NEXT MEETING

TYPE: BRUSH PASS

PLACE: <EXECUTIVE>

ALTERNATE:

OPERATIONAL: SEE REF A REGARDING UPCOMING HOS TRIP.

COS RETURNED A/17 AND SPOUSE'S PASSPORTS WITH 10 YEAR MULTIPLE ENTRY

VISAS, WHICH-PLEASED AGENT. A/17 GAVE COS UPDATED TEDTAP-REPORT_EROM

UNILATERAL SUBSOURCE BRCOYOTE/1, AGENI REPORTED THAT NEXT WEEK HE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

- SENS IND: RYBAT-

PAGE :

MHENO

97-7895762

WILL BE TDY IN

WHERE HE WILL HAVE A SITDOWN SESSION WITH MAC;

"COS URGED A/17

TO GET MORE FI/CI ON

ADDING THAT THE LASI REPORT WAS WELL RECEIVED. COS ALSO TASKED AGENT.

INTELLIGENCE:

WRITTEN REPORT FROM SUBSOURCE MAC, WIIO OBTAINEDS

FROM VPMARTIAL/1 IN

WILL REPORT SEPARATELY.& A LENGTHY AND

*BIZARRE ACCOUNT OF< JFK>CONSPIRACY WRITTEN BY

LA FORMER CIO QFICER!

RAISING THE TOPIC, LAZIZ ASKED (COS NOT TO LAUGH, AND COS) PROMISED,

ONLY TO BREAK HIS WORD ONCE HE STARTED LEAFING THROUGH THE CONTENTS.

CAVIT JOKED THAT HE WOULD NEVER FORGIVE COS, WHO RETURNED THE DOCUMENT

TO AGENT.

C. ADMINISTRAFIVE--

SALARY:

AGENT OPS EXPENSES:

C/O OPS EXPENSES:

DRINKS AND SNACKS

OTHER:

D.

PLANS AND OTHER ACTION ITEMS:

NEED TO PAY BRCOYOTE/I'S NEXT

SALARY.

PER REF B, CONFIRM WIRE TRANSFER OF ACCOMMODATION EXCHANGE

FOR SUBSOURCE MAC.

PASS FUNDS FOR AGENT'S TRAVEL, SET FOR BRUSHPASS

NEXT DAY.

E. COMMUNICATION PLAN (CHANGES ONLY) -

SCHEDULED:

ALTERNATE:

VARIANT:

EMERGENCY CONTACT -

C/O TO AGENT:

AGENT TO C/O:

RESERVE :

RECONTACT -

C/O TO AGENT:

AGENT TO C/O:

3. A. SECURITY/CI -

C/O PROBLEMS/ INCIDENTS: NONE

AGENT PROBLEMS/ INCIDENTS: NONE

ATMOSPHERICS:

AGENT IS EXCITED ABOUT HIS U.S. TRIP.

B. ASSET VALIDATION/OPS TESTING:

C. SDR. ROUTES -

(1) SDR GOING -

BEGIN LOCATION:

BEGIN MAP GRID:

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:

COMMENTS:

(A) COVER STOP NUMBER 1:

MAP GRID:

TIME OF STOP:

TIME OF DEPARTURE:

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:

COMMENTS:

(B)

COVER

STOP NUMBER 2:

MAP GRID:

TIME OF STOP:

TIME OF DEPARTURE.

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

GENO: 57-7895762

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

=-===-=--

MODE OF-TRANSPORTATIONE

COMMENTS:

(2) SDR RETURNING -

RETURN TIME:

RETURN LOCATION:

RETURN MAP GRID:

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:

COMMENTS:

(A)

RETURN COVER STOP NUMBER 1:

MAP GRID:

TIME OF STOP:

TIME OF DEPARTURE:

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:

COMMENTS:

(B)

RETURN COVER STOP NUMBER 2:

MAP GRID:

TIME OF STOP:

TIME OF DEPARTURE:

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:

COMMENTS:

FILE:

CE BY 07272295 CT REASON DECE ON E

DECI_OADR_DRV_

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE :

3

SECRET

---

