# 104-10131-10023

## Page 1

104-10131-10023

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

chief, C'/ Project

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

"Chief, C//SIG--

2.

Mr.

O' Neil

JO SPS

3.

tole

Пов кот

03

NTERNAL

ONLY

J CONFADENTIAL / 3T I SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NO.

DATE

22 0d. 1961

DATE

Care on cares air

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

FORWARDED

to whom. Draw a line across column after each commeni.)

toon the will not be

41-2

11-201 pay

ilentified as bei

afety in

Soot

4E/3

SAD -RIA

14 DEC 1961

10:

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FORM

I DEC So 610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

mh.

2) attack

(0) Пы ред

Ms Прогас

Morga

(8) Please index.

to file this

Taras

fil of mr Bare,

ISRS

INTERNAL

USE -ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

algo

GPO 1961

=593668

---

## Page 2

27 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILES

SUBJECT:

1. Attached 1s a list of ten names of individuals connected with

transport construction in the USSR. After each name is given the

individual's official position.

2. These persons are members of a group which has been touring the

Us to learn about highway construction systems. These people are being

guided and accompanied by Boris Tarasoff, the husband of an employee of

3. Mrs. Tarasoff has informed the undersigned that she will

entertain the persons on the attached list on either Saturday or Sunday

of the coming week-end, 28-29 October.

F. KK. 9h0

Chalmers

Chief, CI/Project

Attachment

---

## Page 3

27 October 1961

US.S.R.

DELDGATION MEMBERS

(1) LITVIN, NIKOLAI ILICH, CHAIRMAN OF GROUP

CHIFF MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT CONSTRUCTION

(2) VOITSEKHOVSKI, GEORGI LADIMIROVISH, INTERFRETER FOR GROUP

(3)CA ALEKS I ALEKSASVICH,

"LADENT OF TRANSPORT CONSTRUCTION, FOREIGN RELATIONS DEPARIMENT

(4) GURARII, MIKHAIL SAMARZVICH

CHIFF ENGINEER (MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT CONSTRUCTION)

CHIEF NGINTER OF DEPARTMONT OF HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION

(5) GORALYSHEV, NIKOLAI NIKOAEVICH

D-PUTY DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION

(5) KACHALOV, NIKOLAI NIKOLAIVICH

SPICIALISI OF TECHNICAL DEPARIMENT OF MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT CONSTRUCTION

(7) KHARLA OV, ANATOLI ALKSADROVICH

ENCITER OF DESIGN INSTITUTT OF HIGHWAYS

(8) NIKOLAEV, ALEKSEI ALEKSANDROVICH

DEPUTY MINISTER OF HIGHWAY TRANSPORT MINISTRY RUSSIAN FEDERATION

(9)ROSCOAUE, OF DESTAY TIEROUTE OF HICHAY CONSTRUCZION NUIPMENS

(10) TROSHIN, MIKOLAI ANDREEVICH

CHIPT OF TRANSPORT DIPARIMENT, MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT UKRAINE REPUBLIC

---

