# 104-10186-10217

## Page 1

104-10186-10217

INFORMATION REPORT SINFORMATION RERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NU MAINSTA PENA INMMAINA APATINA IDO MARONA DelEGA O SIA CHINA PEN MIASA LSO MORMINE Ol the LApORANO LATA 11u

1d C30

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUMECT Benito LSU (allas "Saul")

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00423-65

4 February 1965

DATE DISTR,

NO PAGES:

1

REFERENCES

B JULY 1904

Background Use Only

Do Not. Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO

PLACE &

Washington;

D. C.

DATE ACO. January 1965

FIELD REPORT. NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS AME DEFINITIVE APPRAISAl DE CONTENT I$ TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964-

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personalit

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1. Benito LNU, alias "Saul," is an official in the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intellirence

DGI). He carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry of Interior.

62133337

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Benito LNU.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

1 DIA

TAEMY

REP

CINCLANT

Nes hold diributier indicased by "ge

I NAVY

CINCSO #

MeSA

INFORMATION REPORT

101/S4.108

LL NE

LE

3' 15

110i-Sict

RINVAN

TOrA SM/SA 8 (1), NS 1 (2), CI A, RID

5

4

3

2

40KX

FBI 2

INFORMATLON-REPORT

ILX-2276 * LX-2200

NO PROJECT (AUMUG/1)

CSCI-316/00423-65

PELEAMNG

LIAISON *

sts ED: sk

Lau

9005-1

---

