# 104-10192-10198

## Page 1

104-10192-10198

Cotale 0

WH/4/FM

8977

CLASSIGIEO MESSAS

dicianno

DA!!

JHHAVE

rOM. DIRECTOR

COMA. OCEL 10

INO, COP, ADOP/N, Wn 3, S/C 2

10

INNO

PRIORITY NAVI

ILIP

CiT: 0f

15354

1. ADRES ZAYAS "JUSTO", LUIS RANCHEE "PICOLIRO", ATTO

HOS P.M. 29 SHIT FOR HAVI.

2. JUUNO LAN IRO LUISAN AND DEVIHITE LRADER OF CHOUY

i.!.

IlCLUDLIG ROSS AND HIS MARC.

JUSTO MADE COOD KHPRESSION AHD

SZEVED SINCERE, CAPASLE AD TO IHOU VIAT II NAS ANTER AND WAIRE

'LE HA CELO. ALTONG CONE OY IEB OTHERS VERE TRYDHS TO POLITIC

JUSTO SELLED TO DE LITENSICO OULY DI A UNIVIE HESISTAICE INTORT.

"T IS ESLIEVED THESE PROPLE ARE RIATT TO DO BUSIUSE AND CAN

P'OLLY PACILITATE NICON-L'S EPORTS. IT MAS TURALE ARNTESO

T.AT ROSS AND MARCOS VILLINES VENE ACTUALLY NOTHTIS NORE TEAN

Ponte

EXTRA TOTES TOR THE UR. JUSTO MERS E UN TUE COOPIRATION OR

JUNCO OF THE NEC AND VILL DORE VITA TEX "BUYERO"-"ATOUTO" NES

cini

COMPLOS (POT MARCOS WILLIANS) ANO "CHU"-"MONIT" OF TIS HeR.

@ )

RIERET

REPROOUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PACHIATED.

Capy No

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"ot

DATE 1:

10

CONg.

INFO :

CLASSIFIED MESSACR

• ROUTITIO

DIRECTOR

INPO

DUMERED

POUTINE

CUT 53207

em oie 1535"

3. THEY AROS TO BUSY BAD TO CO TARQUEA ABILA-I AND

VIER TOLD THIT COULD BIAL DIRECTLY WITH PETINS, PHONE MABER OF

JUSTO POR CONTACT I8 TR-9-1306. MiAT ON BOA8 I8 HI-3-7097.

HONIVES, LRAVE MISCHITION MAVE USE CUTOUTS.

4. NO CORIDIOTS URI MAD.. THEY WERE ASKED TO COOPERATE

VITE ARE TO GET ALOO WINE LIES WE ST BOT MIGHT MEN

AND AFTER HAILED THIS ATTENT IN THRY STILE COULD NOT GAY ALOG

WITH ARBID-I EL NILS BOX FITY SUPPORT.

3. TINY AND ADOR TRATHLIO AND VERS IGIO THAI COUID EE

HADLED BY PETERS ALONG UNTH ALL OTHER BUSINESS.

6. TAXY ALL ISTICATED A MILLINGURES TO BIGURE SO CURA IE

IS HERS COUS TO SUPPORT DIRA LIPONI, END THEY DESIRE THREE ONA

N/T CHANNIL MOPIES IVANUALLY TO PRODUCS INTERHAL VEXPICATION

08 ALL WAORRRRSUZ

(IND OF MESSACE)

# 01

REPRODUCTION BY OTMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

4-00000

ATs

10

FROM

CONT

INNO

DIRECTOR

CITE DeB

INFO

10

OAFENCO

POUTINg

OUT 53207

1535%

C/R/4/PM

Perich

03

8

I. DAVIS

AC/WH

3901010

TING

85C884

REPRODUCTIDN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

210g

Copy No

---

