# 104-10228-10078

## Page 1

1104-10228-10078

C 20/220223

all t!

ACT:ON .

C/SELL 8>

hidl

DUP, COP, ADOP/A, G/TI/D 4, CAM, BELL S/E

APR 10 aZuCE 61

PRIORITY

IN 2752

PRITY BELL CITE WAVE 5423

MZIP PSYCH ZRPERUSAL

RYBAT RPT RYBAT

REF

BELL 3991 (GuT 5218)

LO SCE MIAMI 7 APR EDÁRDED CALYPSO AND POSTED SIEN WARNING •

AGAINST USE DE RADIO. ALSO ARRESTED LUO OPERATORS ON BOARD:

E:ILIO DE CAPDELAS PLIERA AND AURELIO LUSO SO ZALEZ, CHARGING

THEY WITH OPERATINO RADIO STATION WITHOUT FEDERAL LICENSE.

2.

SOURCES REPORT THAT OPERATORS PROTESTED ARREST

SAYINO THAT RADIO WAS SPONSORED BY AN GOYORE NGENCY AND CRAFT

INDERGOINO REPAIRS FOR PARTICIPATION IN INVASION CUZA.

SO MIAMI SCE AUTHORITIES WOULD APPRECIATE RUZARE HOS

SPECIFICALLY REQUEST FOO MES TO NEUTRALIZE GALIPSO IN ORDER THAT

THEY MAY HAVE VESSEL TOMED TO SECURE DOC% MIAMI.

AO TYLO WAVE PROP ASSETS HAVE REPORTIO THAT ANDIP-L ALREADY

EXPRESSED TO ANJAG! UNVILLINGHESS DIVE UP PIRSO AL/POLITICI

CONTROL OF CRAFT FOR USE BY NILO PARA 2, ABOVE, INFO ISIOS

INDICATE ANDIF-I MIGNT MAVE INDEPENDENE PLAIS. FOR CALYPSO, 5E10=

ÖRVE UNAYARE ANY PLANS PARTICIPATION OF CALYFE: iN MILIT GEMIL!?

PSYCH WAR EFSORT, HAS MAY WISH ERING ME MATTER DUTH ANEUD 1

REFRECUCTION Er O:..

May the ite cras le premate

C.?. No

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASS: TIED MESSAGE

_2271

1 32- PASE

•O PERSUADE AUDIP A TO TURN CHER CRAFT TO ANGUSO GLASGHING THIS

iS 1E VIEN ANDUD'S OBVIOUS BEARINE OF ODYOKE STAMP CE APOSCHAL

IT MISHT BE POSSIBLE THROUGN BENDER COMPLEX TO AFFECT CALYPSO'S

AELEASE ON BASIS OF ASSURANCE BY AMBUD 1 THAT CRAFT AND RADIO WILL

NOT VIOLATE PEPRIME LAUS AND OPERATE ON APPROVZO NAVLENSTH.

SiD OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: REQUEST HAVE TAKE INDIATE STEPS NELTRALIJE CALYPSO

_SEE

REPRODUCTION SY OIN THAN THE ISSUING GITICE S PEONITOO.

16:8

=..

---

