# 104-10330-10026

## Page 1

104-10330-10026

• SECRET

DD/095-3059

- 7 RUN 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, JFK Assassination Records Review Board

FROM:

SUBJECT:

David Cohen

Deputy Diractor for Operations

Release of JFK Documents

1. I understand the JEK AARB is presently congidering the

release of documents which would identify CIA stationg to the

public.

I am opposed in general to revealing the locations of

our stations and would prefer instead to substitute the station

name with

a regional designation, e.g. European Station vice

Brussels. I would be willing, however, to open certain stations

during a

specific window of time if they are substantively

relevant to the assassination investigation and provided that the

documents in question are sanitized to conceal the permanent

i presence of the station? (S)

2.

In all but a handful of instances, public acknowledgment

of a station would be a political embarrassment to the host

goa ment and do a tire a gone to in his non

government and would threaten ongoing aensitive operations and

In a few instances, the damage probably

would be minimal or not at all as long as the presence appears to

be temporary. I have surveyed the involved components and

determined the damage to national security which would follow

such release. (S)

CI BY 0695930}

CL REASON: 1:5 (C)

DECL ON: X1

DRY ERM LOC 3-82

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

that tot

SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documenta

3

BECRE T

---

## Page 4

13-00000

not and?

SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JEK Documents

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

that road a mp tant to

BECRET

SUBJECT:

Release of JFK Documant.

11. In those instances where I have indicated damage to

operational capability and national security, I would feel

compelled to seek a reversal of any decision to make a public

acknowledgment.

In those cases where I indicate "no spodific or

additional damage", I am prepared to accept your decision yet I

must call your attention to the general damage done to us by any

disclosure of operational presenco.

our operational capabilities

are in direct proportion to the confidence placed in our ability

to protect source identities and operational methods. Disclosure

to the public of our presence weakens this confidence. (S)

niel Wen

David Cohen

5

SECRET

---

