# 104-10195-10456

## Page 1

104-10195-10456

ORIG

LAGOON sagO

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

IMMEDIATE

FLASH

1O:

DIRECTOR

SECRET

clossif.a.rcion

Đ0T

Tad!

SECRET

INFONTI

DATE 1ª AUG 67

ATO

(P-54Uü)

1:< 976-B

2463

REF: MEXI 2454

хії 04 71120.

1. MEXICO CITY ENGLISH-LANGUAGE NEWS 12 AUGUST CITIES FOLLOW-

UP STORY ON THAYER WALDO BY PEARL-GONZALEZ. GIST FRi::::

2. THAYER WALDO REPORTED 11 AUGUST TO BE VORK::.

STORY FOR "RAMPARTS" MAGAZINE. NHILE A SPOKESMAN FO: "'li"ni.

SAIO VALDO HAS AN ASSIGNMENT FOR THE MAGAZINE, HE DÜLLEO TO

SAY EXACTLY WHAT THE ASSIGNMENT IS OR MERE MALDO LOCATEO.

3. WHEN THE KEWS CONTACTED WILLIAM TURNER, STAr:

THE CALIFORNIA MAGAZINE AT NOON 11 AUGUST, HE SAID: "1. i 5"

TALKED TO NALDO FIVE MINUTES AGO. THERE'S NO MYSTERY. .:"S

JUST BUSY TRAVELING, WHICH IS WHY HE HASN'T WRITTEN TO ANYONE

OR WHY HE HASN'T LEFT A FORWARDING ADDRESS. EVEN AS HE HUNG UP

HE WAS GETTING READY TO LEAVE FOR ANOTHER CITY. "

4. TURNER WENT ON TO SAY THAT WALDO EXPLAINEO HIS RESIGILA-

TION FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF THE AMERICAS (UA) AS RESUE: •ÄG FiUM

PRESSURES APPLIED TO UA OFFICIALS BY POVERFUL AMER: "I BUSINESS

INTERESTS FOLLOWING HIS TALK AT THE FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS CLUB

DEBUNKING THE WARREN REPORT. WALDO WENT "ON VACATIO%" 8' LOS

ANGELES, IN JULY, TURNER SAID, WIRED HIS RESIGNATION TO i.

THEN FOLLOWED UP WITH A LETTER TO DR. D. RAY LINDLEY.

Releasing Officer

form

Ce: P8513

2220

386

Quicket

SECRET

classitication

Arehodent Domes

80-11-006-g-

OUTGOING

110.111

---

## Page 2

---.

SEGRET

• 2467

PAGE THO

OF UA. FROM LOS ALGELES NALDO CONTINUED TO SAN FRAi: iSCO NHERE

HE CONTACTED "RAMPARTS" AND WAS PUT TO WORK C TEN. .

'isis.

TURNER CONCLUDEO BY SAY ING WILDO "DEFINITELY NOT PUT OUT OF

- MEXICO."

5. TWO PROFESSORS AT UN SAID THEY WEREN'T SURPRIS:: AT

•WALDO'S RESIGNATION SINGE HE HAD BEEN NEGLECTING HIS JON. CNE

PROFESSOR ATTRIBUTED THIS TO THE FACT WALDO UNDER TREM::..' US

EMOTIONAL STRAIN SINCE MIS WIFE ALLEGEDLY IN STATES t:

FOR DEGREE ON DIVORCE SHE FILED SEVERAL MONTHS AGO.

END OF MESSAGE

152.

8. L. EASBY

SECRET

---

