# 104-10193-10164

## Page 1

104-10193-10164

NATERIAL NEVI

WED AT CIA HCAUQUIRTEIS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS' STAFF NEMBERS

NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY

FILE TITLE/NUER/VOLUSE:

LETSE DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROOM:

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

12565T.781

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONSO REAl

10 May 1977

F71:0725

MMORINDUS FOR: Chiot, talumation ind Privacy Staff

I KOM

Chier, folicy and Information coordination Grou

Peter d. Schey Request - Ku Alux Klan, et al,

at Cary

Pendleton, California

REFERENCE

F77-025

The files of this tarretorate late boon seirched with

regard do the listed arsonications connection with Camp

Fondleron, california and the resule is nogalive for each

---

## Page 3

SOUTHEAST ONICE

3010 ANARIAL VENUE

SAN VILGO, CALMORNIA SEIDI

(784) 239-9837

January 13, 1977.

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade

Nid.. 20755

47-01121

CHIEF OF NAVAL CPERATIONS

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

Washington D.C. 20350

Attn. 0P-09319

DEFENSE INVESTICATIVE SERVICE

DS4A

Washington D.c. 20301

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Attn. Staff Secretary

Old Executive Office Building

Washington D.C. 20506

FEDERAL BUREAU CE INVECTICATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LUSTICE

9.th and Penn Avc. Niv

Washington of.

20535

DIRECTOR

DEFEVSE INTELLICENCE AGENCY

Attn: SC (FOIA)

Washington D.C. 20301

DIRFCTORATE FOR FROM

INPOWATION

Offico of the Basistant

Secrotary of Defense

(Public Affairs)

Room

20757. Pontagon

ashington D.C. 2030

CIA PREEDOM OU INPCRACION COORDINATOR

CENTANE INTELLIGENCY AGENCY

Washington D.C. 20505

RE: FREEDOM OF INFOPLATION REQUEST

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

This is a request under

the Frceden of Information Act as

amended (5 U.S.C. 5552).

record',

it he parrists

li..

request, ine.

,..:

der duposit

the hail "sre,

requecar

75-

JAN

17

•is.

LLolla

---

## Page 4

I ani writing this letter on bohalt of myself and De. Carlton

Goodlett and Reporter

Publications.

Pursuant to the rcedom of Information det. 5 U.S.C: $552.

as amended by lub. 1. 93-502, 89 Seat. 1501, to wish

obtain.access

to and the opportunity to copy the following

documents:

All directivos, memorando, lollers, ordeis, reports,

investivations, studies or other reords, including written

mooranda of telephone conversations, which tolate to the

formation, cxistence, sctivities, operations, membership.

or presence of any of the followiny @rganirations.ot

Camp Pendleton Marine base, California:

Ku Klux Klan;

b.

California Ku Klux Klan:

United Kions:

Knights

oF the ku Klux Klan:

United Klans of America:

SOUthern Ku klux kIan:

White Knights of the ku klux Klan:

white Brothurheed:

and posse

1.

United klans of Amorica knights of the in klus klan;

Minutemen:

Soired Army Orgmiction;

Christion Crusade Church:

American kanjors;

Invisible Empire of the Ku flux Alon;

Christian Dorense Lague:

he National Stales Baylits Party

liformid Anti-Communist L0n0ud

Christian Mational Allian:

Anerican Volunteors Group:

t.

Provisional rational coveramant of the bos.n.i

u.

Ancelcon tilti

Party;

V.

National Socialirt White boooles Party;

w.

Lension of Justice;

x. Operation Unicora-and abor siallar gecups.

All directives, nemorands, letters, orders, reports,.

investigations, studies, or other records, including written

memoranda of telephore convorsation, which rolate to the

foundation, existonce, potivities, operations, sice, member-

ship

or presence of any of the oramizations named an No. 1

above in the United States Marint Corp.

3. All directivos, lettors, memorabla, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, analyze

or otherwise relate to resusa at Camp Pendleton Marine Base.

---

## Page 5

14-00009

4.

All directives,

lettors, memorada, dodoree reperts,

investigations'or other records which describe, analyze

or othurwise relate to rascisn in the United states Marine

Since none"of the statutory exoptions from the Frcedom of

Information Act's mandatory disclosure provision applies,

requested records should be gearted within

ten (10) working day:.

•In the unlikely event, however, that access it denied to

any part of the requested records, bleare descrite the

deleted matcrial in detail and spocaly the statutory bari:

for the denial as well is your resons

for believing shit

the alleged statutory justification exists in this case.

Please also state your reasons for not invoking your

discretionary power lo relento the sequested documcata in

the public interest.

lie also request that you waive any

applicable feer since

disclosure will meet. the statutory

standlord for

such univer

elcarly be "in the public interess becouse

the incoration can bo considered

beneriting the general publac".

S.U.S.C.A. 89,9191!11(r).

Should

,iny

procedural probdem

arior du do that request.

please

call me icollects at (111) 233-5463.

Ke await your, prompt

reply.

Pril Sick,

Peter A. Schey

Attorney it Law

TERESA CHIIZ

МО1:99 РUR-6-1911F8В9ІЯ

Prer D61 001,00, can D "2:.0.6,al1l.

M, Commisin (s= 0:17, 19181

+5W000rie9910

PAS: pcn.

subscribed and sworn to before

me on

January 14,

NOTARY RECOGN AND FOR TIE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

---

