# 104-10183-10343

## Page 1

104-10183-10343

Asso scionsis

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SEERST

wW/c 65-166

12 April 1989

CHORANCUM FOR:

firector of Security

ATTENTION

Allen Affairs Stal!

SUBJECT

VIndlair RODRIGUEZ Labora - Adlanton 8o the U.S.

of t1te

and Tro Minor Children"

i Subject 18 a former stall onployee of the Cuban Intelligence

Service ho defected to the free world in Ottaws; Canada on 21 April

1031. Subject bad been plenning his defectlon for mone time and

accordingly no brought with bin a large anount of classified terial

which ho delivered to this Agency.

As a result of bin defection the

Agency was the recipent of extrezely valuable information on the

Cubab Intellicence Borvices both In Cuba anc 10 the Western Hemlapbere.

Sinco April 1964 Subject has contluues to be of high value to the

Agency and continues to sasiat us in every vay poesible.

It has now

boen learned that Subject's family (ulte and two

anar children by her first arrinre) are expected to depart Cubs

for Morico on 14 April 1963.

In vlew or the Inninent arriral of

Subjoct's dependents it la requeatod that entry be arranged for the

faally in an expeditlous a manner as possible.

ubtle noraal entry.

can be achleved under section 212(D) (5) of the linigration and

Natlonality act it is folt that due to involverent with the Depart

mont of State and the regulresent of National Agency Checks, the

adulasion to the U.S. of Subject's faally aight bo delayed.

3.

Tho expeditious, rather than routine, bancling of the

918ag

of subject's taally la of

Importanco for Subjoet's morale

and because Subject, himsell, should sponé a minieun of tine in

MexIco for socurity and orerational reasons. Further, his prostmate

operationi use

18 anticipatod and any celays in arranging for entry

of his dependents coule result in the delay or cancellatios of

plannod opèrations i

activities.

4. It 18, Cberetore, requester that Allen Allaire Stall

arrange sith Innigration

and Naturalization Servica for the prompt

acalasion into tho U.3, of Subject's laally once they serive lo

Marico City.

.n3

#H/C/C0

Orie & 1-Adcrossee

Im Subject file

1-- -TH/SEC

1---NH/C/10

I---NE/C/ESEC

orlainated by B.Il. Micalzo WS/C/PORT-AT - +enat.

in tires

---

