# 104-10215-10035

## Page 1

104-10215-10035

HERONI COVER FFEL

tele 8

2:1

11:. •9g 1003

ageng the

ASSET

Nour

from

foiner

vie sao approtenca byA

Affairo

Cornionlon.

15.21

Anerienn

and

it 1g

said

thnt the

quite oucccanful

ol hinde breys

in shipping noddedneu

4ll?n

rento

1o

fueluding.

° 831300999

ahty

in Cuban Jails.

ASSL

Tains.

5 and li:

ASSET.

oitained

on us about do sprent.

thc

information beenuse

it

sho 1u a

very

related

sond Irlond off

Almo attnched

under cover of

1 torn

of information of

potentinl

55ET

report are the lolloung

interent:

Bulletin No. "uf

the lintional lodiet?.

in the Frente Intornn

Anti-Conunints

fi.•

It 1a not known how

Precrived this

It 1a boldeved that

June or July 1962.

thie/ information dales ig aleut

pons

ASSET

Atenehmente:

11/15

11186.

dedical Into,

Hendquartors 5137 & atta.

0/C

File

CON 1111111

CONDITITO MISSEN I

1:16i

---

## Page 2

C0-1-1-1-111-9-1-1-A-1

CONTROLLED DISSEN

a 22 ma

Copy

of a letter signed by Coate Reno 1190:90 108 11-

Executive Council of

the National Domini: of Surger:

of the

Ministry

of lealth, dated 6 Jun ad-heused to

BOTTI, PreHidCHt Of SUCEPLAN Toy cotlu an

approval for

the expenditure of $20,000.00 lor the

purchase of raw color film

Crochenle: skin.

Thi::

11lm to be used at the national

Untvert:?%fog and In

Cuban scientific. Institutions.

Receded Mo

ASSET

asse ald-duly from an undents ied cour pondent.

Mune debriefing of Antondo TOLEDO 4cn11 (A12 029 119)

whe

wast

in the

third year at the Medlert ichool, Unlicsilts

01 labana. Report daled 21 August.

do "Translation of a commentary by Virilllo lEAD Runez,

leader of the Cuban nedical class labana on 1B Aur.

1962.

It sas submitted in tranglated dom by

on 26 August.

Though this appears to le en interesin

commentary there docs not appear to be anything new or

startling in the intermation

hasting us medleal and forenston

сістрі

Kgeen091 1n

which

ms received throuch the

Pouch turned over lost

foi

provided translations.

Envelope

had solden

rdurcas

Colendo Tereniano Calle 17 No, 1051 Vertiro,

linband•

Addrossed to Eduardo ROCO, Fº0

Nor 1195.

Ho MAVE trace"

ROCO.

source of this infoination 1o wed. knew.

It..19

believed that the

nancs under this nttnet.rut

chould tr

Indexed for the Field.

No indication &l

and B,

but bolteve they stand for A- All-Conunist,

reaning of "!"

Ro: Neutral and C- Communist.

18356°9

C-0-11-4-9.8-T 8-T-1-1-1.

COBIN JED DISSEN

201-002238

---

