# 104-10298-10184

## Page 1

104-10298-10184

CATE

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

:

FROM :

DIRECTOR

it tite the copy an ludinated .

ACTION:

290:aalo Cure 100019 B9 Modicaloel

TAN 1O ME CHARLES HEATINO TEN DOTIFTED AND COPY SLOTTED

INFO :

AT 1630 27.NAY):→

DE1, CDP, ADOP, CA A GA/PRG, CA/PROE, S/CR

19. 124-20/2

ROUTING

MAY E7 2216Z 62

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 41885

GOT DIF CITE CAVE 1277

_ GYN055

1. MIAMI VERALD 27 MAY CAPPIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN

FUTITLER "IRO FADES AS EXILE CHIFF: THREE LATIM LEADERS DEMIND RAY".

ARTICLE FLATLY

CTATES "IDO AND COINCIL HAVE BEE! PEPLACED EY MANUEL RAY WITH

RACKTNE COU "ONCZ MARIN, POES ROSILO BETANCOURT AND FORMER PRES

•OG FIGUERAS, THAT RAY HAS TAKEN OVER POSTWITH THE BLESSING OF THE

IMITRE STATES", FURTHER, ARTICLES STATES FROM VARIETY SOURCES HERALD

LPARVED THAT MIRO WAS NOTIFIED OF CHANGELONLY THIS

NFEK" AND THAT RAYS REAPPOINIMENT AS CHIEF IN EXILE CAME FROM "UNDER-

t'ensinist

1359

APTICLE RFDITS CURANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING "NEW MAN IN FIELD" IS ADOLE:

A. REPLE NA. WHO HAS SEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO

DEFIRER OS PRES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA".

IMPLICATION BLING THAT REFLE IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSORED

CUSAM ESFORT.

SO THIS DELFASE CALISING SOLE FUROR IN LOCAL CUBAN COLONY TO EXTENT

AT LEAST ONE OPS AGENT DESTINED FOR

TRAINING MAS

ASKED TO RE RELIEVED IF THERE ANY TRUTH THIS STORY. MEANWHILE WAVE

7/2e92d tir Etersatis

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

FROM

ACTION:

INFO:

Isido Coupe nice es Mallord

255 tridents robici sees:

Mariod

BlanAture! -

PAGE 2

HAVE 4CT7 IN 41885

CUTCHO WITH ANCHL EDGEABLE CONTACTS HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN.

2

MILLINE GO MIRALDA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHARAN ACUSNALISTIC REPUTATION

INDIRATES ME IMACCURATE AND SENSATIONALIST. ASCLATTER-S AND PASSONDY

ATILIPTING DISCSSSTLY TRACE BUCHANAN SOURCE FOR "U.S. BLESSING."

3. PUCHINAN HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO IE DURING RETURN PLAYA

GIPON POTSCHERS SIR"I, HAVE NO MEAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE, THESE

ATTACHS BUT DELIEVE THEY COULD REFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD

ATTIFTS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES

¡ POSTURE FE CURA.

A. EXPECT ASTICLE WILL HAVE FURTHER REPROCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS.

ISY ALERT MOS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT

PUCHAMAN STORY AS TELL AS REASSURE MIRO WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS

DECADE AFTER HE HAVE OPPORTUNITY-TUPTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.

5.

POLCHING CLINGING 20 MAY

"' END OF MESSAGE

Transi gage

Exstated Pia totocalle

SEGRET

862358.106a:39

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBILED.

Copy No

---

