# 104-10172-10147

## Page 1

104-10172-10147

DISPATCH

Chief, ask ferce W

CASSaNLA12N

SECRET

PROCESSING

ACTAT

ARARERO PCA 184:4 1180

NO HACE RING EVARE

CAR RONS IRATEMA

RESTRACI

ALCHIA

Chief of Siation, JUNAVE AKA

SUBACE

GYROSE/ Orerational

Progress Report - 13 August 1962

ACTION REQUIRED BERLINETS

REF: UFGA-4425 dated 19 June 1962

SUMMARY:

an the period since ref propress redort

IMDENIY-I has been primarilv encased in keering his fences mended

with the various exile sroups in the area in anticipation of mov-

ing intes position in the AMSUD-l orcanization in which he vill

be responsible for coordinating the selection of paramilitary

-candidates. from these groups.

In addition to this he has prepared

a nunier of reports providing backeround informationg and on cur-

rent activities in the local

PRPUNEN conmunity and mounting

Openition Antonico I, an effort to establish contact with PBRUMEN

fishermen thru his own fisherman contacts. Details follow:

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

In response to a Station request subject provided an

estimate of the current situation in PBRUMEN.

This report

stressed the points that the farmers and the

fishermen in PBRUMEN

are the most willing and capable of providing support to resis-

tance activities as a result of their having suffered the most at

the hands of the current administration after being largely

responsible for its obtaining

He also provided à general

stratesic plan of Oriente Province in which he defined the main

in which guerrilla

elements can survive and how they can be

reached fros coastal resupply points. His ability to do this is

based upon his being a native of the area and one who has been

primarily interested in its geography due to his former large.

agriculture holdings there.

maintaining contact.

He has had one meeting with AMBUD-l for the purpose of

His main question to AYBUD-I was with

regard

to the latter's ability to actually control the people on his staff.

He was disappointed by the reply which though positive could not be

supported with an example of where AMBUD-l had actually brought

Distritution:

3. - Addressee

П:11

Eric ip:

CS COPY

'CARES ENTERENCE FO

DATE TYPED

DATE DESPAXCHLD

13 Aug. 62

DESPATCH STACH AND PRANBER

UFGA 5212

MEAOQUARTERS FUE ARRASCA

211-551553

5 1°

SECRET

201-251853

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLABAIERRATION

SECRET

UrGA = $212

about the dismissal of anvone who had proved to be ineffective.

WOENIM-l is a good friend of A'Bunal as a result of his father's

long standine relationship with him, but at this point has very

little respect for him as a result of, as he says, AYBUD-l's

failure to actually make his orranization into

an effective body

and to enrare

activities which actually detract from the success

of the current PORUMEN regine. It remains that he is willine te

ai: 0oia-r oasicans

all disempt tu create unisy anone the

military sections of the -emher groups at such time as KUlAR! RIves.

him the go ahead.

Following his belief that the most incortant job at hand

is the development and maintenance of maritime reception points

along the north coast of BRUMEN, AMDENIM-l has devoted

time to readying assets

anong his exiled fisherman friends to make

contact with their former fisherman associates still based in

PBRUMEN.

The foundation for this activity is quite tenuous as a

result of a variety of factors which make it difficult to arrange

sea rendezvouses in the absence of radio contact. Several trips

made to the Anguila Key area for this purpose, the last

of which was supported by KUBARk and was.

called Operation Antonico

I. This attempt

was unsuccessfut due to the failure of the inside

contact to appear.

It developed that the woman and child who were

to be exfiltrated on this operation appeared in the JMVAVE area

two daye later, having obtained permission to leave PBRUMEN by air:

They carried the message that someone had stolen the port chief's

personal boat as a result of which the inside contact was unable

to depart on

schedule due to the implementation.of. temporary re-

strictions until the theft had been investigated. She said the

next rendezvous was scheduled for 12 August, however, imminent bad

weather forestalled any chance of making this rendezvous. The

effort to establish contact continues on the basis that, once a

system can be set up, it will be comparatively easy to es-

tablish further rendezvouses and thus develop ratlines into the

north coast.

Coincidentally with the above AMDEWIM-1 is continuing

his affonts to come up with radio operator candidates and

to obtain

candidates for infiltration.

Based upon past experience

effort is being made more selective in that the need for more self

sufficient personnel is greater than ever.

The increasing diffi-

culty of covering people inside makes it necessary to reduce the

size of the infiltration parties and to have people who can with

stand the rigorg of existing on minimum supplies until they can

establish themselves with natives who are willing to provide them

with a base of operations.

Most of the people who are willing to

infiltrate at this point are of the type who want immediate action

and are unwilling to take the time to establish a clandestine base

fron which they can methodically develop the assets in place who

are essential to the growth and refinement of a resistance base.

He has a number of people on tap who are qualified as candidates:

for small guerrilla

teams, but who are not capable of maintaining

themselves clandestinely until the time for guerrilla action

• 6. FUNDS EXPENDED:

4

a. $200. was piven to

maintenance until histrearance cones through

is intended that

will be an investigator of

operational leads. and an assistant to AMDENIM-I in

the handling of his fishermen and operational candidates.

b. $300, was given to ANDE!!IM-1 for passage to the

widow of AMGLAD-1.

He is the channel

for this pavment

until such time as HOs arrives at a settlenent figure

and this obligation can be disposed of.

9 60

509 53e

140

USE PREMOUS EODOR

QUASSINCATON

SECRET

XX

CONTINUEO

PAJI NO

3/до

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIPICATIUR

SECRET

U5CA-5213

c. $325, was given to AMDENIMal in support of Operation

Antonico I, which

operation is described under para-

p.rapha.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION:

AlIDE.I"al has provided a number

of memoranda on develonments within the various exile erouds in the

MAVE ares, none of which qualify as intelligense inferation but

all of which contribute to the station's better understanding. of

the local politicse

Specifically, he has provided info on

political beliefs and background

of most of the PBRUMEN exiled labor

leaders and the activities of the Bequer prous.

He has also been

helpful in clarifving the picture as to the movements within the

Un at this time while the Station is trying to determine how best

to orranize this group in order to be able to take over its more

worthwhile features without becoming unduly conmitted to giving

it special prominence in the exile community.

He is being counted.

on to help bring the UR into

the AMBUD-1 organization as a means

of creating the appearance of greater unity among the

connunity."

8, COMMENTS AND FLANS: While no spectacular achievements are

resulting from AMDENIM-I's efforts at this point he is steadily.

becoming more and more susceptible to KUBARK control and more

professional in his efforts. * recent example 1s the critique he

Rave his fishermen for not realizing more

information out of the

refugees they met at Anguila Key while waiting for their inside

They had failed to adequately debrief two young men, who

had succeeded in surviving in PBRUMEN for over two months on their

on the basis that they were too young to be knowledgeable.

ow lt turned out the two refugees had used the cover of sponge

salesmen and had been able to travel from Havana to Santiago de

Cuba without being stopped once.

on learning of this, AMDENIM-1

was reminded of a good cover he has heard about, namely fighting

cock fanciers, which activity seems to be on the

increase as a

result of the greater amount of spare time available to the people.

The sport is actually becoming a year around proposition rather

than being restricted to the winter months as in the past.. It is

planned to have AMDENIM-l continue his present pursuits on the -

bas is that he is free to move as the Station desires and can have

an overall constructive effect on the AMBUD-I organization at the

Ilme desirede. He will continue his efforts with the fishermen and

will provide candidates for infiltration as they become available

and can be accepted by the Station.

Operation Antonico III is

scheduled for 27 August using a Magnolia (boat) to establish:

contact with fishermen living

on a key in the Caibarien area.

There is a possibility that he will journey to Jamaica to máke

contact with an old associate who is

now a prominent member of the

PBRUMEN government as a means of eliciting

information on current

regime policy and

plans.

END OF DISPATCH

15 530

USE PREVIONS EDITION.

CASSINCATES

SECRET

J CONTAUrO

PAGE PO.

3

---

