# 104-10522-10130

## Page 1

1041052210130]

i ..

85.N2T

40 January 1964

MEVORANDUM TO Mr. Clark D. Anderson, Logal Allacho

FROM

: Winston M. Scort

SUBJECT

¿ Lee llarvey OSWALD

1. Referenco do made lo Mr. Anderson's memorandum of da January

1964 reque ling that certaia informason be obtained from Cosumal.

2. The following roply mae recelved on 17 January 186d drom

Bon Merida:

Dantel SOLIS 1o a woll knowu municipal pollceman la Corumol.

Ho has been in thie positlon for the paar cloven (Il) years. Ho has : 600d

reputation.

b. Daniel SOl15 statod dial se had no knowledge of any person

rained Ylario ROJAS Villanuova. Daalol SOLS' wile bag an uncle who le

named Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramires aid is from Guadalajara, SOLIS

believes this unclo was orighnally from Manuel Doblado, Guanajualo.

Inio uncle volted SOLIS in Cosumel about lue liral do weeka li Juno 1963.

The unclo arrived by bus lo buerto Juares and by boat to Cosmol. He was

"broke", sooking work. He was withou lugsaje, had only lne cloches he

word.

the uncle nald his auitcaso had fallen frem the sop of the bus dato

the waler at an unopocilled forry crossing es roule to Merida, The uncle

sald the sulecado contalned some "important papers" and all hlo personal

balonginga.

e. Dandel SOuls housed and led this uncle and got him a job

(comporary) as a bricklayer'a asslatant. The unclo worked in Cosumel

until about mid-juno 1961 and then loft ior Vera Crus by boat.

d.

The prodont whereabouts of tis nucio aro unknown t0 vanioi

SOLIS. SOLIS jave him nome clothes and 5500 (pesos) upon departure.

Vo hile at the home ol Laniel SOLIS, the uncle wrose three

letters to le akippor of the forry boar trymy lo recover his quitcano:

SECRET

$ 7417

---

## Page 2

. *

but he recolved no reply. The uncle sent no other mall and he received no

mall during thie simo.

The uncle had no notebook of any kind.

1. The uncle had no contact with any Cubano In Cosumel an far as

Hie only assoclaies were a Mexican Air Forco Sergeant

named Polo and bicklay We Leone VILLANE (do relation.

8. The uncle, Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramires, lo described by

SOLIS an: 10 yeare old, 5°8", aball 1a5 pounds, stocky, akin "moreno".

black atralghe hair, mustache aod with a long lace. Mo uoually worke a

a chaulfeur or farmer. SOLIS sald Elado VILLANUEVA Ramires did nos

seam subject to aberrations.

3. Neitier Danial SOLIS nor any of several othor contacta in Cosumed

havo heard of "Albert"'.

THIS INFORMATION IS EROM A CONFIDENTAL SOURCE. IF MUST NOT

BE DISSE MINAIED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUISIDE YOUR OFFICE

WITHOUI PRIOR ALPROVAL CE THE ORIGINAIING OFFICE IN MEXICO

Dietribation:

Orig als Addressoo

50-2-f1

I SO -S9S TOSWALLIN

wig/dh

# 7117

---

