# 104-10135-10440

## Page 1

104-10135-10440]

RETURN TO GUA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

(

25

20.1!!!

10 711

MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION:

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

FROM:

Robert W. Gambino

Director

of Security

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee

on Assassinations Requests

(U)

1. (U/AIUO) Action Requested: None; for information

only.

2. (S) Background: Reference is made to the attached

requests from the House

Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) dated 19 June (OLC 78-2198/1), 30 June (OLC 78-2446) ,

6. July (OLC 78-2390), and 11 July 1978 (OLC 78-2475).

The

HSCA has requested access to all files, file references, and

documents concerning 24 individuals.

Results of Office

of

Security indices search are as follows:

a.

19 June request--material is available

regarding Robert Maheu.

b. 30 June request--no record was located

on Samuel David Ruby (Rubinstein), Hyman Ruby

(Rubinstein), Mrs. Marion Ruby Carroll, Mrs. Anna

Ruby Volpert, or Mrs. Eileen Ruby Kaminsky.

c .

6 July request--for information regarding

Gus Alex, the HSCA is referred to the Department

of Justice Organized Crime Principal Subject List

dated July 1969.

No identifiable information/no

record was located for any of Alex's akas--Sam

Taylor, Paul Benson, or Gus Johnson.

d. 11 July request--material is available

for review regarding LICOOKIE/1 (duplicate of item

Lydia Duran (#2), Eunice Odio (#s), or Noe

Palomares (#16).

No identifiable intormation was

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063344

#17134 05 8 17591A

---

## Page 2

SECRET

located regarding

Jose Jesus Clark Flores and

only overt

type information (newspaper

clippings)

located regarding Joaquin

Cisneros.

(C) Please contact Mr.

Bruce Solie (red line 9126)

or Mr. John Sullivan (red line

• 1893) of this Office when

HSCA staffers desire to review the above material.

For

Robert

Attachment

2

SECRET

---

