# 104-10181-10052

## Page 1

104-10181-10052

SECRE I

RETURN TO CIA

Backgreund Uee Only

8=4617

2 October 1964

A EN. ORANDUS FOR:

Chief, CI Liaison

FROM

:

SR/CI/R

SUBJECT

: Cuestions Concerning Defectors

Joseph J. DUTKANICZ (201-289236) and

Vladimis O. SLOBODA (201-287527)

1. DUTKANICZ's Army assigament al time of defoction.

USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2 (copy attached) confirme

DUTKANICZ's assignment to the 32od Signal Battalion In Darmstade.

However, his wife indicated that he had CIC connections. In an interview

at the American Embassy Moscos on 5 December 1961 (cited in DBA-288,

24 January 1962) the Indicated that their trip behind the Iron Curtain had

been made posaible because her husband worked for the CIC and was allowed

to do thinge the ordinary 'GI' could not do." There are also penciled 10-

call ona in the 201 file suggesting that his Army assignment may have Included

2. Previous KGB connection of both defectors.

Fer USAREUR Case Summary Z-62-2, DUTKANICZ himself

sold American Embassy officials in M'oscow that he had been approached by

KGB representatives in a bar near Darmstadt in 1958 and had accepted

rocruitment as a result of their threats and inducements. He claimed to

have given them minimum cooperation from then until his defection, although

the Army considered it probable that he had done more than he admitted. A

further indication of his KGB Involvement before defection is the fact that the

apecial decree granting him Soviet cilisenship ss enacted three months belore

his arrival in the USSR; see Emb tel 851.

,.t-e

6.200=541

Stunni

CC.PY

201.287527

---

## Page 2

14-00000

as reported in YT-1192. See attached memorandum of 28 h.arch 1962 Im

regard to pasaage of this information to the Army. Further indications are

the facts that SLOBODA nas a KGB resettlement case and that be later told

an American Erbassy A'oacow official that he had been black-mailed and

framed into going to the VSSB. See boscow Emb tels A-572, 23 October 1962,

and 851, 23 March 1962.

3. Army security lavestigadions as Immediate cause of defection..

Fer USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2, DUTKANICZ told American

Embassy Moscow officials that he had informed his KGB handler that he was

- under Investigation for security reasons. He delested apon aller, la accord

with a KGB suggestion that ie do so.

SLOBODA's defection nas precipitaied by increased Army

security measures, according to BE VISION.

o1

Lee H. Wigren

C/SR/CI/R

Distribution:

LOrig. & 2 - Addressee

1 - SR/CIR

03

cl 2 October 1964

• 2

Scuici

380

---

