# 104-10147-10359

## Page 1

104-10147-10359

I UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL God SECRET

ASCA

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

CIRA/O

O: (Officer designation, room number, an

wilding

1.

AC/CIRA

2.

3.

DC/CI

C/CI Staff

4.

PCS/LOC:

DATE

RECEIVED FORWARDED

EXTENSION

T NO.

1592

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS fu in ach so colem of too dromen

поки

Legislative Counsel

7D

49 Has.

1 Auq78

Zts

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

agreas en

Apparently i bro

cans from a conver-

Sation.

will

report

to IsCA.

610 USE TENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

(Phoned Blake's

office of0d 1 Ang.

I left wessope that

we

think we

have

idleulity, of one of

photoss.

6-5. Wld, hetme

Wire the resutts

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECR

OLG 100 2460/21

311576

CI-294-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel

FROM

: B. Hugh Tovar

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

SUBJECT

: Possible Identification of Person in

Photograph Released by the House Select

Committee on Assassinations

On 30 July 1978 the House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA) released several photographs and com-

posite drawings of persons who the committee hoped might

be able to "shed additional light on the assassinations of

President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King Ji."

The photographs were shown on a newscast on Channel 5 (WTTG)

on 30 July.

CIA Career Associate Petr Sergeyevich Deryabin,

who saw the telecast, reported that the photograph showing

a profile view

of a man is that of Nikolay Sergeyevich Leonov,

"journalist" known to Deryabin as a KGB officer.

2. The July-August 1976 edition of the Soviet publica-

Latinskaya Amerika

contained an article entitled "To

Your Health! Fidel" by "journalist N. S. Leonov."

Written

in connection with Castro's 50th birthday, the article

praised Castro highly and implied a personal acquaintance

between Leonov and the Cuban leader.

It also briefly

mentioned that the CIA had planned "a physical liquidation

of F. Castro." Deryabin comments that he knows "journalist"

Leonov to be a KGB officer who has worked in Moscow

headquarters as well as in Mexico and Cuba. He believes

that Leonov's implied personal acquaintanceship with Castro

in fact stems from his official position

l as a KGB officer.

he Towar

B. Hugk Tovar

WARNING" NOTICE

SENSINE INTEULIGENCE SOURCES

AND METROOS INVOLVED

FORE

EL IMINDI

CL BY 063765

22243

---

