# 104-10300-10201

## Page 1

1104-10300-102011

• 1.

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRUSSEE OULY

SECRET

!

District Fleld Office

17 March 1964

MIX ORANDUM FOR:

Headquarters

SUBJECI

4262 622 C SD/1

l. Reference 1n made to Headquarters letter of ansignment in

this case dated 4 March 1964.

2. Durlug the period 20-23 February 1964, nile SUBJECT InG

under the protecilve custody of Srecial Agents Stanley C. LACH,

George R. BRULER and Alried B. McCARRAGIY, SUNECT voluntarily

funiched information concerning his background and activitics,

as vell as other information oi opcrationl interest, the substance

of which is set for? in the succeeding paragraphs.

It is to be

noted that at no time did any of the above-naned agents solicit

any or this inforcution or mke inquiries of the SUZJICT regarding

any of the ratters discusced by him. SURJECT spoutaneously related

these incidents in casual conversation during leisure periods and

snile enroute with the ageuts to and from places of enteriainment etc.

In most cases newspapers, magazines and TV programs prompied the

SUBJECI to make conments

relative to these matters. Following 1s

a sumaciration of this information:

SPORTS, HOSTES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECT disclosed thai he enjore the

folloing sports:

football, hockey and billiards.

FOREIGN TRAVEL.

runtya f the

(b) He also revealed that he has previously been in the, Unlied

States while enroute to Cuba, Venezusla and other Intin American

countries. He has at one time or another during hio service with the

RCB violted and worked on operational projects for the soviet Union

in practically all of the

countrles of Europe; horaver, he has never

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

1/262 622

C SD/1

traveled to the lar Bust, except while handling an agent who was

active agalnot the dapanese.

He (SUBJECT) stayed In the Kurtle

Islands nich are within sight of Japan.

This was In 1949. He

said that he was active in the picking up of agente by plane and

ship In this area.

FALILY BACKGROUND

(e) In the latter part of the evening on this same date,

20 February 1904, the SUBJECT stated that his father was a member

of the Cormunist Central Commitee, one of the first members of

the Communiet Farty, and that he had great respect for his father.

the subbch also indicated that his father vas a shipbuilder and

later became one of the first to organize and set up the Russian

Atonie Energy Plant.

It was during this latier activity that he

(the SUBJECT's father) and three other officials came in contact

with radiation, which affected his father's liver and a few years

later at the age of 54 his father died of cancer.

The SUBJECT

went on to state that his fether, being a very prominent Communist,

was given treatment for this cancer in a special hospital which 1s

located In the hills outside of the city of Moscow, and during his

tenure in this hospital the family resided with his father.

had five room llving quarters beside the room in which his father

was confined. This privilege, he said, 1s only given to the espocially

prominent VIPs of the Cormunist Party,

Indicating that his focher ins

one of the top men In the Communist Party.

MILITARY ACCIVITY

(a) The SUBJECT revealed that In 1949, at the age of 16, ho vas

a Haval Cadet. He was called into the service before graduating from

what 16 our equivalent of a high school.. He had inken part in the

fighting In the Black Sea Area where he described hand-to-hand conbat

with Gerans, clained he was wounded, and becuuse of his bravery he

ras avarded the Soviet Order Nedal and the Order of Stalin. The SUJECI

stated this was unusual for a person of his age and gained him creat

respect. At the end of the var he had no more desire for nilitary life

although his superiors tried to keep him in the milltary. Instead, he

vent for four years to the Institute of Foreign Relations and lcarned

the Englisi, language. Upon graduation, a ran cane to him and told hin

no the tuto be go to ta to ta at to hi.

that lic had a job lined up for him. He stated that this actually vas

nore like being ordered to take this particular job wich turned out

SECRET

-2-

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

7,262 622:

C SD/1

to be with the laval Intelligence. He clained that there vere tio

millary Intelligence organizations at the time, the Faval and the

Ground Force military type.

LEE OSTALD IN RUSSTA

(e) On 23 Februaly 1904, as SUBJECT approached the table for

the evening meal, he noted that the Time magazine lying on the coffee

table in the living room had a picture of larie OSWALD. As he sat

down he hit the table with his fist and said, "I feel that I could

have stopred OSHALD" Ai thia point Special Agent Stanley C. LACH

asked him "how?". He proceeded to state that he (SUBJECT) was head

of the KCB Tourist end Visitors Section which kept control over the

ecilvitles of OSiALD while he was In the Soviet Union. He cald at

the time, OslAteD vas of no special concern or Intarest to the KGB

because he lacked intelligence background. therciore.

when he applied

tor permission to leave Riosia, they (KCB) under hio (SUBJECT) directior

informed OSHAID that he rould have to wake his application though the

appropriate channels of the Stotc Department, who in un would request

hi3 relcase from tho Russian counterparts In handling of viras. This

he raid las all done for propaganda ind show purpores. He vent on to

stace that if they really vancod to calease OSAID, 1t could have been

done on the spur of the moment, but since OSWID had nothing and tas

not worth anything, they decided that this was an opportunity to show

the American State Department that they did not mind rcleasing Individ-

uals if they applied for release through the appropriate channels.

Prior to this arplication for release of OSWALD, the SUBJECT stated

that since he vas of no particular interent to them and there was

nothing In Moscow that they could use him for or place him into, they

decided that they would send OSWALD to linsk where he would be placed

In a factory vorking on radios in the hope that some training in the

clectrical and electronic fleld might result in his development Into

an electronies engineer; horever, he showed no carability in this field.

The subJect then stated that it vas just at this period, before sending

ostArD to inck, that a vary sirange thing happened.

OSWALD was supposed to have a meeting with a travel agent in regard

to preparations for his going to kinsk at 4 o'clock in the afternoon.

1t 6 o'clock ho still did not report to the travel agent, so the travel

agoni decided to so to the hotel where OSWALD ras etaying to see if he

could locate him.

When he got to the hotel he asked the clerk if OSWALD

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

7262 622

C SD/1

ras In his room, the clerk nodded afflmatively, and the travel agent

proceeded to OSVALD's roon. He tried the door, but the door vas la:"ed.

He knocked, got no response, and then with the assistance of the clek

they broke Into the room and found OSWALD lying across the bed with boch

of his wrists slashed.

the travel agent and the clerk responded Innediately

by taking OSHAll to the near by medical facility where he was given bloud

transfusions and after a period of time regained his strengch. During the

Investigation the following day the SUBJECT stated that the doctor indicated

that had OSWAlD not been found foi approximaicly ten more minutes, he sould

have been dead. It is here that the SUBJECT again pounded the table and

said 1f the travel agent had not broken into the room, but had instead

contacted the KGB office like they are instructed to when they do not

yet any response Iron people with whor they have appointents, that he

(sUBJECt, would have most tikely alrecied the craved agent to forget

about him, and on the following day or later that evening he vould have

sent one of the KGB agents to check on OSWLD, at which time he rculd

lave been found dead.

This, he went on to state, le wat hurts hin

when he realizes that he could have been instruental in disposing of

OSAID without any special Inguiry or serious Investigation, SWUD

being nothing, and at the same time today the President of the Unlted

Itates, President kaurely, would be alive. The SUwaCT then went on

to state that after OSVALD was sent to Minok it was there that he not

Marie. Lile himself (OSWALD), Marie was a girl fron a peacant fantly

wich no special background and sonerhat Illiteratc. It was because

of her poor background that she was given permission to marry OStD

and return to the United States as his wife.

The SUBJECT then went on to describe what took place on the day

that President KINDlY was assassinated. le cald that this vas actually

on saturday in boscor, the zand of lovener. he was home at the time

and happened to have

the radio on, when he heard that the Presidcut of

the United States had been assassinated. Approcimately one hour later,

the radio informed him that the assesoin was Ice OSWALD.

this announcement,

he sald, really stunned hin. He grabbed his coat and dashed to his oific.

Immediately upon his arrival he searched for the OSWALD file.

Wiven ho

found the file he revieved it and found that OSHALD had not been ured

or even ayproached for use by the russian Intelligence.

He put in a

long distance call to the Chief of the KOB Section in Minsk and Inquired

whether they had used, trained or prepared OSWID in any vay for Inüc)l1-

gence actirity. The chier intorned him that accoring to what he could

recall, they hed not mde any use of OSHAID.. Juet about this tine, he

(SUBJECT) stated that his superior walked into the office and directed

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

#262 622

C SD/I

the SUBJECT t0 get all the infornation available on OSWALD and prepare

a gunmary to be furniched the top orficials of the Comunist Farty.

The SUBJECT then directed the KGB Agent in Minsk to lllevise prepare

a surmary of his file on OSHMUD and Inforned him that within trenty

minutes a KGB agent would arrive by special military plane to pici

up the summary for icturn to loscow.

le said this was accomlished,

and within one hour they vere preparing a detailed report on OStArD's

activity in fussia. Thie, concluded the SUBJECT, 1s the story of

OSWALD in fussia.

C. P. AFEILIATION

(1)

The SUBJECT also indicuted that he did not Join the Cornist

Party unill he as 27 years old, and he did thiu out of resyect to his

lacher, to at the time was on his death bed and asked him (SUBJECT)

whether he would do him one more favor before he died

That is how

the SUBJEST stated he joined the Communist Party. Ocherise, he probably

would not have been a mamber to this day.

DIPLOANS AND INTEELIGLICE TYPES

(6) The SUBJECI stuted that the IGB are able to dificrenticte

botreen Anaricans tho are assigned to loscow and are actually the

State Daparceni type, Iron chose ino have an incelligence background,

by the fact thut the intelligence type of people do not ascociate vich

the Russian girls, that is they will not go out with them alone, inercas

the State Department ¿ypo Will. Also, over a period of a month

or two,

thuy invariably are able to find evidence that the Intelligence tres

have been nasturbating.

This is uoually detected through close eror-

ination of the Individual's tovels and bed shoets.

HUSSIAIT U- 1 AIRCRAFT

(h) On 25 Februny 19ck during the evening meal, a discussion was

had rogarding the recent aliplane crashes noted in the nevspapers and on

IV In the United States. The SUBJECT cormented that he has a lot of

friends who are test pilots and who are now engaged in testing nat he

raferred to as a U-l ispe of aircraft that is faster then any other

nircraft in the world. lle added that these friends are highly paid

but they huve very dangerous jobs.

SECRET

- 5=

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

1262 622

C SD/I

SUEJECI'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECT alco made reference to his father during this

meal, describing him as a very tall and extremely well-built inäividual,

and one who was extremely intelligent and a self-made, self-educated

man. He learned the shipbuilding trade mostly through his own research

and study, and also fron the SUBJECT's grandfather, who was one of the

The sUbJECT added that his grandfather

died at the age of 94. He also stated that after the death of his

father, a memorial was built in his menory since he was considered

a very capable director of the government shipping Industry.

was about the last time he saw his mother and brother and sister, as

they all went to this cremony in honor of his father. He also

indicated that there was a periodical which gave a complete run-doin

on his family background, including that of his grandfather end his

father, and it vas well publicized; and this he belleves had a lot

¿o do wich his being able to get some special preference and move

along as fast as he did in the KGB organization.

KGB PRESSURE ON FAMILY

(1) On 27 February 196+ during lunch, the SUBJECT stated trut he

has been inforned that the KGB is putting pressure on his immadiate

fantly, particularly his nother. However, he said he vas not overly

worrled about her because she is vell-off financially, and being un

In age there is not much they can do to her. However, what concerns

sympathies of his to children and his wife. The SUBJECT stated that

he was anticipating thie; however, he did not think that they would

start so soon to pressure the faully. However, he does have some hope

chat in due time he may be able to get his family out of russia. ini

lope he said was given to him by the Chier of SR DIvision

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS PENETRATION

(k) On 25 February 196% during a sightsecing tou of washington

ansvored, "KCB". He continued by stating that this vas a good place

to place people because they could readily learn by just ratching

what research was being done in the Library of Congress by the military

SECRET

-6-

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

1262 622

C SD/1

and thereby get an idea as to that the military was planning in the

sizy of araments and things of that nature. The SUBJECT also advised

tiut the responsibility for getting Inormation surreptitlously from

American Inbassics in foreign countries who employ indigenous personnel,

falls within the confines of the KGB.

He stated that the way they go

about this is to sork thougn the indigenous personnel end arrange to

enter the embassy at special times during the night. They would flrit

close survey and a photograph of the area in which the entassy

liceps its classified material, then they would subsequently enter this

area and open up the safes.

when he was asked how this was done he

stated,

"oh, combinationg to sates are not hard to acquire". He said

thas the important and difficult part of this activity is taking the

material out and photocraphing it and then placing it exactly as it

was before they touched It.

Staily

TOT DE NOBLE, A

Speclal Agent 14 Charge/

SECRET

- 7-

---

