# 104-10102-10159

## Page 1

1104-10102-10159

INDEX:

DJ YES

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIDD

RET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY SIG.

FROM

20-2

SACTION

C/WE- 3.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Lef.

SECRET

PERSON/ UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIS!:

A RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED LA

18/5 k

8 JUN 65 N 85811

SECRE I 08L746Z

CITE

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Orly

Do Not Reproduce

C (OSMA]19068 (NOT SENT

D

S-2OS16 CNOT SENT

E

MADRj6593 SNOT SENT

1.

FOR

VICIOR ESPINOSA ON RETURN PBPRIME TOLD ODURGE AND

ODENVY OF AMLASH CONSPIRACY; CONTACTS WITH AMLASH 2

AND 3, [UNSNATU 9,

MIRRLEES; CRITICISM OF KUBARK STAFFERS ATI

INCLUDING GROWERY;

DEROGATORY ALLEGATIONS ON CUSPORT, [RYSWIFI 1, AMWHPP 1; MIRRLEES SCARE

IN ACCEPTING AS SERIOUS JOKING RECRUITMENI BY ÄMLASH 3 FOR SOVS;

02

RELATIONSHIP AT PARI AMONG BOB, DICK, MAUREEN 2

LUIS FERNANDEZ,

LUNSNAFU 9; CLUMSY ATTEMPI USE AMWHIP AGAINST UNSNAFU 19 WHO WITTING

OF AMWHIP TIES WITH KUBARK; AMWHIP POCKETING DIFFERENCE BETWEEN KUBARK:

PAYMENTS FOR JEVELRY AND AMOUNIS GIVEN IOLUMSNAFU 19; GENERALLY INEPT

HANDLING OF AMLASHES; NEEDS OF AMLASH I TO VET PROMPI REPLY ON KUBARK

ATTITUDE TOWURD HIM. SABETAY IS AVARE OF DETAILS ABOVE AS TOLD TO E

LANGOSCH BY ZSPINOSA.

3

13193

---

## Page 2

2.

FOR DIR:

TOTA,

GIRL NAMED BY ESPINOSA,

.DX

Is (QUEWIFT.

REFS

ANIED I SHE NEVER EMPLOYED [QUEB AND NEVER IN CONTACT KUBARK STAFF:

PHOTOS OF MATERIALS WHICH ESPINOSA CALLEJ CUIS CIPHERS AND

MICROFILM WERE FORWARDED HQS 19 APRIL BY REF C. REQUEST RESULTS OF

HQS STUDY.

3. STOCKWOOD LANGOSCH MEETING TO DISCUSS ABOVE AND REF B MATTERS

MAY BE PROFITABLE. LANGOSCH WILL TELEPHONE STOCKWOOD FROM PERPIGNAN

TO DETERMINE IF FEASIBLE FOR STOCKWOOD MEET HIM THERE OR NEARBY PLACE.

IN VIEW STOCKWOOD PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENTA

- 10

ASSUME NO SECURITY

PROBLEM IF HE SEEN BY (QUANTUM •

SE C

RET

CFN

_APPARENTLY LURING

---

