# 104-10169-10325

## Page 1

104-10169-10325

SECRET

ROUTINE AAD RESCAD CHEET

- PRiOR

TO FiLNG

1.

Fall la Seci.

o= caca. Delach baca

flap

diJ lOTard Io RID.

Destroy frost cover steet.

records

aaless it

sigaricaat actioa taien or

corsealr requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION ENANCH

1l file 5o. and ilile stown are sot

proge:, sesei% preper illo zo. telou

end ¿orvard docuseal so rIDjai.

ROPEE FILA DO

RID/

AFil

NINI

_TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

PILL IN ERETION I DU BACK MiRRORAIATE

coMMeATs

2cc: wall

TO

#ODA

NO.

DATE

BICEIVEN

ANITEALE

78

SR/2

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SSRTRP

SARA T SEP 1961-

SRICIRED

Sindy

WElICE

10.

12.

8#.

14.

1B.

10.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

DATE MICHUFILHIS

тж.

ABETRACT

INDE#

I/PV

PILE TITLE

FILA NUMOLA (PRIMARY CODET

201-2948.55

OCUMENI NUMILA

22/OPHA $ 03219

10.1.8

C

C

laure

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Sier.

пло-

201-216555

9ne8 8St1a

0706, 16 Anal 1551

A-

on the stally on and or 78 To 1 ela, 00 1, 5 colo

2/14

bare of the and clantanbury introduond binself to Lilaoy.

Mise roqueta

that bia condit

#volume be trannistod to his Serms possesno, Coassio

Clansonbury pruminod do do so and than startod do minelo visa oblo membero

or the eras aren one moral, Klinor definitaly monourered ain

ponition to de dinoo do clantonbury do la so entago hia sa duverantial.

Aldo prurtue the roonel Jimor ronartod about the aunl1ab111 ly

of the Helmints mmon ton the fino Italian nonbore of the crew.

clan tonburg

1o8 on no to salo ono in the truo tradision of the dos and tre Jialian aparado

To led to a denisalm ending the Inorenno in Murla population, do usat

•Cantonbury moudinos the promendoun population of China. Kiinor romariod Bias

the Cinose vero moraline at an unbelievable rate of some seo hundred thound

per monthe Clant nhury rolorted that this was not unuoual for a poor baokmand

country that hal lou rubluta for other types of reorontion klimor ten musematod

that now the Cainees

are able to avail themselves of the new peoples! poorsation

$Bo1l1t1on, 8o mil clustonbury sotortod diat thie was quite apparent inoe

they are multiNylne al the rate of tro hundred thormand per month (101mor°a

nane figures).

Hurryine do vuit the upper deoke ve care sorone some whell cases

that were in nood of polishing. Clsstonbury pointed to them and renaried that

someone would hare limals a good job to periorm. Klinor innediately started

venrohing out tiantishury's military experience, by pointedly asking 1f Clastonbury

had nervod in the Nary.

Clantonbury replied in the affirsative and naked nure

Kimor served.

Ho roulded in the Artillery and was quite aware of the mel involved

In pollshing shall saninet. Kiinor then asked Clastonbury if he oured to join

his for lunah.

jis vian sf the faot that a luncheon would probably be inevitable,

and since it wan lunal line and no neals were being served aboard ship. Clantonbury

reed to noompt Alimula invitation, Kliner firet sugrostad a place where one

could enjoy none urnyfiah (or as he stated 1t "oraba") Clantonbury requented

that they not indulen in thie nirce he had sone but a few nighta ago and they

moro too time sofanning, Klinor then suggested a Runsian rentaurant, Ballove,

witch wan mapposed to he nearby. Clastonbury agreed, horover, upon departing

the vessel on the nay in lunch, almor suggested that they walk in searah of

the restaurant alnue he had never been there.

hat they ride in lin or sinoe he did not wish to leave it on the dookad tastont

agreed, then pradended in mut lost in sone of Helsiudl'a downtom traffio, Uninter

tional as 1t wan

1t way have led Klinoy to believe that Clastonbury vas Indeed

• freen newcomer do tilla ares.

At Alim roadaurant Klinor Insinted that Clantonbury ohoome the

course luce he wan und doo familiar with Chinese food:

Glastonbury oblipod.

Dinor also Inninded tint they hava a martinikk, and then he ordered beer while

Clantonbury andered lan with his Chinese food.

to walter naoed nomy chopstioka

on the table, faming them, and with wiat he muot have thout to be a olever

genark, Klinov kunmaly stated to Clastonbury that "chene are for barbarimin"..

Clantorbury atatad flint lie undermtood the EXI Chinene were now loamnine to eat

with fork and minmated that Minor'a government night lave a tromendous fork

martet in ChI Chilin for Chair exodon teel produotion. almov beonne rather

-purerned and tated shave nitor all, discerent quatone pee practined in

Shere hined Shoe He won Kinky 100

CISSOL AILIN

PAlat NO

Bentala (ima

those. 81 30

SHORET

.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COMPAOO

DADASCA

6002-22

10010051501108l00IOSINIS.

IN (a) 1200 10 80 16- Nailin hits in "01lara

Gooded.

weslarbury

noble

MARCH.

In quo mindsory and pardospiod do the laterallon el some of uno bulgarion

lod you add drivi 11 Ches, to mlen Alimor remarhol

18 a sort ol

a viebury troyage

Arlos a dudo do the ecsvarantino,

» Lat ta to readine the schman el lottero betrona Moosevelt

and 86

11A, and tell

ore of admirienon to the present-day at funtion

da Certif

"hon

800 ind rend Miln aruhare

01

ro, Clastonburg.

eratod that ho lead

rond

restina

book covering te

« Ar

rint entitled

an" by Yos0, Kismor appearod intoreatod in the

boOk and Danted to trow sE

contained the personal commente of the nuthor,

rathor than a pronentasion of the saote.. Ulnatolburg dal d8 Do knom dial the

book mo caolunt, but no in all booka the milhor's compento voro so do nocepted.

Al thra junabdon alimon olatod eat borsin muld lo a

dont of our gelationahide

Clantanbury statod Blas no san no season for nuals ale

KIsmoy stated that

all the froublen 1n Cormany mould bo mostled by a alpine of the tant Corman

tones treaty.

Gila roule enablo the Cornue to solve their ou question of

unitiention wich would come one my of mother.

Ulastonbury muerated to Jainov

that the Borlos loverament uns shirina dto responnibilitien in thin situation

by attempting to meat sta hande of the German quention, Clastonbury stated that

the minion of the penoe treaty un nothine alse tras plaolne the natch in tho

kant Common hando with whish they could lenite the "tinder bor". Kimor protested

that the tinder hos had estated for iny year and that their airina the pesoe

tronly ma "only signing a fall piece of paper and not paaaing the santon to the

Fast Carnaro.

11sor then supersted that Clestontuggle rovernment Join handa

with the sorlots and aden the treaty. Claetonbury replied that he did not believe

that kla governent rozld ever sign much an afreement. Glastonbury suggested

that the Soviet Covernment in lieu of airning the treaty puroue a course of

honest negotiation to resolve the queation.

Mimov stated that Khrushcher 1n

bin pooobes hai indieated the Sovlet Government'a willingness to inolude the

U.S. In negotiating the final version of the peaon treaty with last Germany.

Clantonbury suegented that Klimov atteupt to let it be known to Khrushcher,

al though.

ho underutood that linor was in no such position as to be able to tell Khrushober

whet to do, that Khrushcher etep engaging in publio appoches and start negotiating

If ho really desires peace.

Klimov atated t at Khrushoher'a speechos were indeed

negotintion and asked Clastorbury what he thought negotiation should be.

Clastonbury

retorted that, as he understood it, nepotlation took into account the viewpoint

of both sides and was not amatter. where a falt soconpli was promented in a publio

speech with a requent that the other mide nerely conour. Clastonbury pointed

out that sinog the end of the war the Uniter Staton had presented many proposale

for the mottlement of the fernan quention and that time and time again 1t was

Klinov'n government that refused even to novotiate on the prineiples of those

proposala.

Clastonbury was surprised to a khrushoher pull a solution out

of his hat and expeot another poverment to merely in on the dotted line.

01 mor did not counter any of theme tatementn but murconted that the U.S. had

FORM

101 330

BAth

USE PRIVIOUS BOITION

ELPLACES FORMS

41-2. 91.984 AND 46-21

MOTIONS DES MOUrNIE

AMiCATON

BHORNT

PAGE NO.

ROS COMrAN

---

## Page 4

14-00000

DOPAICH

An a sit jan 11 4

CH 160 DIME 10008.

I IN 008-1 14 01 1

CAl do 12PZaS 158 dig si did

panted ind

B0s 31as

09108 01E

1I00:1

j++: 5189861

So ges mor

a 111111010

L048 8911

Bill B200d

1BOM 000

Will ten int

loat lino

D0:B0F A

→ 1100 Antido

Mas say podd die the tone tool.

Lan do Ca 21 on.

11, 0 at) 2000 00 000l 140001000801 o ross to sara

cadebiburg

111m0v

And

Moldare

Weal

moldordan

HORM

0200

Chal als

Bow!

enjoyud i

Uason,

after lie loar

for Classcaburg on

85g.

Bedne as the pande prenty

novor drint to the pose dre

Arant do friendahip and po

110

Olestrnbury then ani

11

would probably be after

$he

he

muld bring bin go year

old

Chan procentod a pioture of

va and hoped that

not in cohost but +1e1815p

18 Ciantenbury had any childron, so mich Clantenbury atated liat he had tro

Glastonbury alse at ted that inco he had arrived he had none diffloulty

In obtuining a nald and askod Alimor 15 ho had a nald. klinor roplied that he

had none and that he and hia wide dired alone.

HELES

Oocasionally during the convereation linor Injeoted sone Russian,

arman and french vordo, to shiel Clastinhury sado no resotion.

It was undoubtedly

@ orude ploy to test Clastrahury a lausuaro ompabilities.

Cleatonbury did let

It be know that be we studying Flunion and asked how Klimov was coning along

In the language. Klinor sopilod that Finnish van too difficult for him to gramp

and shit he hai fiven up studying 18 After a few nonthe, but admitted to borne

ment of the basio worda to manago in darly life.

Ugon leaving the coffee horso Clastonbury volunteered to drive

Klimor book to the Soviet tabassy.

*banny Klinoy rejooted Clastanburgis juvosal to drive right up to the dom

of the Ambassy and requeated to be let nut aoroam the atreed. As Clastonbury

drove away after the oordial thank you for the meal and the company he noted

In lie rear view mirror that klinor alarted te walk book fron where they had

Juat been and not towarde the ambasay.

21. Cantonbury's asmonoment of Klinor at this tine 1a that although

ho may be a knonledgumble RIS typo he mun extremely arude in attempting to elloit

the bando PRQ Part 1 information on Ginatonbury that will eventually appear in

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CHESE ATON

PAGE NO.

BIPLACES TORME

$1-28, $1-20A AND $1-29

SE 0 RNT

FrYT

---

## Page 5

14-00000

8770--=

DSOAION

Legas

MIOS DE DOTAO SO MANO NA TIJAR DON DE JALLIANO AN JOABILIO, ALL IIUTO COALME

TARA DIMOY VIII DO LODA BO BUA LUTOS MIELIA DE DA LES DO LIVOIV BiO ARARION'O

Bano Oido 018058 CA MDD8 DOR APPRATO BO LO A MOGLODO RETENS.

MALPRE DO CLASPONAUNY

Daturbustons

4

CS COPY

z/pV

201-294855

---

