# 104-10215-10002

## Page 1

7104-10215-10002

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

SPECIFY AIN DA SEA POUCH

SEGMET

DISPATCH NO. IRSM-816

Security Informali He AGe Mi9T

QLASSIFICATION

ОСТ 3 1652

TO

i Chlos of Station,

DATE:

FROM s ChIoS, WE

SUBJECT: GENERAL- OperatIonal

speciFic. Sooursty Rorlow Of Current Operations - Frojost HUBOID

RITs Held Rogulation Fo. 50-20, 1 July 1952

I. Jou attention la imited to the proudalons of the sofareneed

regulation uhich require periodio rentova of etrrent operations.

Headquarters.

Froject bankin and

as one operation.

3o In competionjata the croscat

order, you are reminded that

parational data contined 1n Lastigarters Sales doos not in all casoe refloot

toasablo senadial action to taprove the security of the operations, la

nooardance uith the montaions of paragrana ló of tha referencod regulation. •

Ao PrOJOCt SUMANOID 18 COnTriBed Of fOUr agenta: HIMAOD (U. S. e141s0n

copidsant of employer of Station Chief, Fincipal ageat, out out), HUMANOIDI

(andigenous agent,

HIMAIOIILII (Indigenous agoate

shich 1s the

and HAIL I (Indirenous agente venetration of the

23.

", as set forth in the appron

ура3. Сани

C. KING

SING OFFICER

CS COPP

COORDINATING OFFICEN

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

81-80

AUTHENTICATINE OGICA

+9 201-168851

**®

---

## Page 2

01-00009

!

SEGRET

Sea Information DEARS AGAR

- 2-

(a) Out out services (WHAROID).

(D)

Penetration of

] (MANOID III).

(0)

(d) Penetration of

(o) Information emnating iTos university and Intellectual

(I) Parallal penotration

(g) Additional sources of information on political movementa.

6.

She current method (a) of centret and simmunicationa betueen BHANOID

and HUMANOID Ill 1a not clear to Headquarters

IRiSA-1084 Inlicated that

FUMANOID plannod to close his photo shop thus eliminating the letter drop and

sate house that had been uned previously for contacts between these agents.

IRSt 3215 pointed out that "contact between cut-out (HAMID) and agent

(HUMANOID-ILI) 18 the weakest security link in the project at this tiaa."

It is expeoted that the field security survey will describe present contaote

and comunications in sufficient detail to clarify those points and indicate

1f the security risk involved has been rezoved or reasonably miniaised.

To Contact end samunication between HUlANOID and the

agento appeare to be reasonubig secure, dovever, it 18 noted that the Direotor

1a witting of the operation.

His permission to Intercept

CosmunIsT vas obtained by HIMID who indicatod to the Director tbat.

"the Americans" were interested in communist

the Direotar himself originally selected the two clerks (aution and

HUMANOID II) wbo vere assigned to the task of

ception of the operation coverage has gradually increased to cover any l

of isterest rather than nerely coumnist

that this expanded coverage has dens vithout the knouledge os the Director.

The alacrity (apparently) with which the Director seceded to ENABOID's

request, and the assumption that the Director 18 not avare of the expanded

coverage, suggests possible security hasards which should be considered by the

Meld station.

Of importance la the possibility that the

18 a

ahared operation. It is publiely knovn that

authorities

Jaund

sometimes confiscate comunist |

officials, par

toularly the Director of the

might willingly provide HUMANOID

sith|

Ila order to detect the nature of our intelligence Interesto,

Identify higher elemente 1a the nat, control the operation, eto.

SECRET SESH RITZED

---

## Page 3

772-4,2

- SECRET

Security Intermation

It is reocmended that this aspect of the operation be commented

upon by the station vith a vlew to strengtbening the security and evaluating

the riake involved in terma of value derived fron the operation. As a first

step 1t in suggosted that biographic informtion be furnishe! Ferdquarters 1a

order that ve may initiate a nave chock on the Director. The station should

also Indicato the destrability of initiatine security clearance action. This

woald seen so be aspectally laportant iS the birentar bal artensive knowledge

as other, station operations.

8. A study of past operutional data suggeste the posslodlity that too

mach dependence la being placod on the prisolpal agent and cut-curt HUMANOID.

At the present time he ects as cut-out for two nets l

penotration of the

1 Pecent renewal of the project en

Visaged Inplesentation of other objectives which may require the recruitment

of additional agents and the creation of additional nets. If ElK'OlD's

cut out functions vere to be extended to such additional sets, tore is the

posslbility that comprolse of this one key individual vould jeopardize

virtually all our operations in the area.

It is riconmended that this matter be considered by the station 18

and then any additional nets are created. Consideration ahould be civen to

the recruitment of additional cut outs in order to avoid over dependence on

a single agent.

9 In March 1951 a tochnical surveillante was condueted on an Individual

of interest. Tro

agents HuiNuID and HulAlIST were utilised in the monitoring

phase of the operation. When local authorities detectod the operation,

HUMANIST vas apprehended, Interrogated, and ultinately revealed the identity

of the Chief of Station (since replaced). After a thorough revie of available

evidence, deadquarters concurrod with the station's opinion that HUMANOID

probably had not been identified by the

Goverment. Bovover. 14

Is notod that the irvestigation by the govermment vas conducted by

Chief of Detectives and reportedly a follovar of

participation in the investipation my of may not be

significan Deonuse of his adherence tol

In any event it is recamended

that HUMAlOID'a role in the surveillance operation be thoroughly revlewed 1f

Jare fulfilled in the nationel elections

next year. It la also recamended that constant efforts be made to confirm the

belief that HUMANOID was not contaminated.

10. A revioN of ILMAHON's past and present contacte with egent personnel

reveals that he has had clandestine intolligence relations with EtHAlIST

(paragraph 9, above), HUGGER, HUMANOID_I, HUMANOID-II, and HUMAHJI III.

Both ¿UMAlIST and HUCCER have been terainated, and there la no evidenoe to

Indicate the cireumstances attending their termination have in any way affeoted

the security of HalaNOId.

Hoastheless, 1t 1a. noted that HUMANOID's intelligenoe

aotivitios are known to a videning cirele of Indigenous agente. In this

connection 1% anst also be remembered that HUMiDID's services 1n behalf of

"the Americang» are known to the Directos of the

graph 7 above). Moreover, in July 1251,

HULNOD's wife, & Costa Rican, was witting of his Intelligone activitles.

SECRET,

BESE SiRED

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Security Information

bestionica

39":

It 1u rocomended that the ebove Information be evaluated by the

flald station when the independent field survey of project HUMANOID 1a

undertaken. Partinent oaments should be made regarding the significence

of this Information fran a security viewpoint.

U1. In sumery, It In rocamended that HUMANOlD exercise estreno caution

1n al1 of his Intelligence activities. Although there is no clearly defined

security robles involved, paragraphs 9 and 10, above, suggest areas of

possible dangar.

12. The attached diagram illustrates our present understanding of the

HUMANOID operation. Comments on the dietran as well as the text of the

above review will bo appraciated.

1 Attachment

SC Knic

1. C. KING

By

19 September 1952

BIDIEDI

BEST'AED

a ra rHodl

ĐA

1

1: 18

÷136h.11

SECRET

RESENS TIED

ITA

201-168881

---

