# 104-10188-10042

## Page 1

104-10188-10042

DISPATCH

AUSRATAT

SECRE! **

PROCESSING

15545

WEIT 1:0 1960 11996

Chlef, Wil Division

DESENSITIZED

Ber ESM 43-4J

Chilet o. Statlon, Mexico City

LIFEAT Progress Report/February and March 1953

CTE REQUIRED REFERENCES

AP 1lCT-

78.4

Rof: HMM;-20873

PS

1. The following report is submitred In accordance wish CSFHE-P

52-6-1, Section V, paragraph 2(4 (1).:•

DES NFD

FI

A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

1) LIFEAT/SOviC LIFEAT continueú lo provide daily coverage of the

horne phone of Sovlec Intelligence offleer. Alcksandr G, SIDOROV in order to

both provide Information on the contacts ue SIDOROV ald to support the

MÉCHARITY-20 opera:loa by providing Information on the dally routine of

the SIDOROV fa nily and mald. Overage of a second Sovie: Intelligence

officer, Svyaroslar F. KUZNEISOV, was reinacalled in March in order to

support the Station officer conductur the LISTEED operarlor.

In addition, LIFEAT utderrook coverage of a suspected one

time Sorlal support agent.

Informa: lo. on thils target which would oherwise be difitcult il no: Impossible

so obta in.

2) LIFEAT/PolIsh

As in the pas: LIFEAT continued to provida Informatiol

ou the dally activitles and contacis of the Polisà Embassy personel la Mesico

3) LIFEAT/Yugoslar In addition co reporting on the cally acilvitles and

contacts of the Yugoslav official Insallatio: LIREAT providal info-mailos on

the planned accendance at JMSAlL. conterence of two Yugoslas diplomats who

are suspected intelligence officers. LIFEAT also providal intormarlon pre-

dicting the promo:ton of l'ugoslar ferican trade as a resuli of the Mexican

President's riste co81984ec6.0

CS Classification:

(Continued)

BOXE

RECORD; COPY

Il Apr 19,3

DISPATCH START ANIO REMAGER

HNMI:-31080

HEAOQUARTIES II M, NIELA

12 Ap: 1963

SECRET

50- f3=/5

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRE1

HMNL-21080

1) LIFEAT/Czechoslavakian LIFEAT Ig coverlng the home- 'eno

Czechoslavakian Intelligence officers in hopes uf gaining operational leads

for the Interested Station officer.

LIFEAT coverage of three lin's in support of the

AMSTRUT operation coatinues to give an

"essuntlal" shock on this uparatto:

as Wöll as providing by produci information o. conditloris in PBRUMEN.

Coples of the processed taïe from these lies are forwarded lice a weck

tO WAVE, LIFEAT provides coverage of AMSTEll, of great Inurest to

the Station's JMGIN officer, and prior to AMSTET-l's return to Muxico

provided coverage of the home oe a Cuban offlelal formerly stationed In

Mexico Cly.

6) LIFEAT/Exile In chis area the coverage of ESLARD 1 plus chree

related lines was the single major offort by blfeat during the reporting

period. This coverage incluted a week of "llve monitoring" of these lines

prior to ESLARD-l's departure from Mexico. The Staton officers Interesied

In this case described LIFEAT coverage as "excellent and sustalned with

many operational leads".

LIFEAT coverage of a Costa Rican Communis: living in Mexico,

contains an unusual number of leads for use by the

Interested Station Case Officer.

7) LIFEAT/American Communists Coverage of targets in this area Is

of primary interest to ODEVVY. According to local ODENVY, travel and

contacts of the ACGM provided from the LIFEAT coverage is of particular

and continuing Interest to :hem.

138 530

8) LIFEAT/Miscellaneo.ls LIFEAT Is covering a former SMOTH agent

wilo Is of interes: to KUBARK for possibly compr mising lo:h SMOTH and

KUBARK operations. The lead to ihts Individual and reques: for LIFEAT

coverage originated from Headquarters. Also LIFEAT, In connection with

LIEMERACE, provided lengthy coverage of Fracisco WALTZ. Ollvera as a

result of a lead from the Statio:?'s LIJENNET operation, This lead ralsed the

possibility that WALTZ could have been a source of U.S. air navigatlonal

ma crials for the Soviets.

Coverage of WALTZ, however, tends to confirm

His 10-Involvemmeit with the Sovlets, at leas: daring the period of LIEMBRACE-

LIFEAT coverage.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE

Karen C. UTTLECKY was added o. an avallability basis so the processor

translator staff of LIFEAT, Howiver, her primary durtes continue io he that

of part time cranslator oé general Siation maerials. No diher changes have

taken place.

C. LIAISON

No change from tha: reported in reference.

D. SECURITY

During the reporting periat, it has become increastngly difficuit for

LIFEAT to operate in a number ut areas in Mexico Cuy tor Ilo reasons:

1) the increasing effictency of the telephone company (Teletonos du Murico)

in both modernizing their telephone cable system and leoping track of their

dally perso.mel assigumcats

LIFEATE

and 2) the assigument by the Secretaria

de Communicacioes y Obras Publicas (SCOP) of spectal crews to check all

SITA 3120A AND SE 88

SSCRETA

TWO

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH.

SECREI:

HIMMA-21030

elephone ronny distrib.elon boxes for "spire pairs" which could be used

to provide servico ro Mexico Cly residents now michou: telephones. It Is

these "spare pairs" which LIFEAT utilizes for the routing o. lis tap lines co

tho iusehouses, LIFEAT personnel have succeed in dorcloping variailons

• on choir regular tap procedure witch it Is boliered will help negate the effecis

of the dangers ived above. Further refinemchis of LIFEAT operating mohods

are presently being coisidered, and will be implemented as necessary.

E. TECHNICAL

No change from that reported in reference.

The combined coverage for the two months of this report totaled 24

separa:e lines (16 in February and 23 in Marcil), Corcrage by carger was

as follow

1. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV

2.

Sryatoslav F. KUZNETSOV

3.

Suspected Soviet support ayent

and S. Polish Embassy

6., 7. and 3. Yugoslav Embas.

9., 10. and 11. AMSTRUT Operailon

12.

AMSTET -1

13.

14.

Albert/ Murgare: MALTZ

Charles/Bertha SMALL axa SMOLIKOFF

Noah/Anna SEBORER

17., 18., 19. and 20. ESLARD-1 and related lines

Francisco WALTZ Olivera

22. Former SMOTH agent of interest to Headquarters

23. and 24. Homes si two Czech intelligence officers

2. Dirtug the reporting period a number of memoranda were prepared

by the Station for passing :o local ODACID und ODENVY based in whole or in

pare on LIFEAT provided maural,. The following HMMs were provided as

a by produci o: the LIFEAT operation,

HMM 7106

HMM 7145

HMM 7160

DiscrUbutlo::

4= C/WiID

2 - Files

* 530

1M 9 1AI

CLASSIFICATON

SECRET

57. -6-37/300

CONTINURO

THREE

---

