# 104-10113-10249

## Page 1

104-10113-10249

83 A9018 1860

4 KM

c108, makestles

03

fallening the lomete losed 19

¡tientary en salch Naziel chaula ba briatel letery ta arallen por tha

Argention Mes In Bou Test.

1o proganta, fer dirat elitary to la/o, the laterational licelation

Cortillest in alias to be nood ulth tha above donut. this cortistante

enould to ebschal for securacy sa to mas, place unt cate of lesus.. It 1a

vocatratles prior to departing tea the Del.

mason a to treath of

met for cate or

olied us or st bace of portion way. a ret

Iyansport. to avoid places a lans,

Lesmnco date, vasch mcasustatol seenno ca tha brale of conglara lenaci

Jarly ass Jear carilos (tha 1298 rocat era avalleblo). Inse rhost

Itinary a1so sould soes to ulbe epiletic at thia tiea la tha U.l. for

Le to obtain his Argentina ves althout EloI) esa10t2a0a to vich te

ruba the l1a1tations of tha conmatatios provin for thie eparatica, tel

coreed to by lie.

7'3 Deter of mean.

Dila contre elecusale

SECRET

---

## Page 2

td-i traon

SECRZT

Ce

DE 101101 tt tha Ealatlos data La 1 ANEcS 1559 Cnl ebaE EEsTas

BIAlIANCA dN ESoRal Srel that dlea Soreasdo ly eca serallestlea

mu1 han to be catani ti fnay

Alco, ma of thle psyert fer tavel

cr tha that erielrauly intonia (atrect sron la, ta Argratios eol lae

(1tsta ets mastho) u1ll ragulss esrertel pasuttmy ly sin/1s ol tra estatlo

al tho píea of the lutandol futuro trsval.

Rezat ia tha use os thlo allas docsent.

→ Si muti n coonn tt ssll o rorna t

en cartenason 18T

03

ittachats 1 Dales (B/2)

66412 1 5061.88

SECNEY

tic:ve

n, ,, 00e bri sonaon..a,. .o=→n

---

