# 104-10103-10330

## Page 1

104-10103-10330

INÕEX! [IvES

D NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIO D

RET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY

JsIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

1S SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

ERELUDIO PROM AUTOMATIC

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM

5-4

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

INFO

c/us 3

XI RID COPY

ISSUED

ELLE, VR, ADDR, De/W11/C.5, S/CI, C/FI2

SLOTTE, D

UNIT

W'E

TIME

6835)

0497999561

To. dign this "u:49

S"E

E T 041107Z

15-2

REF

TATE DIR INFO

CITE

OK KEYWAY PBRUMEN CUNSNAFU AMLA

Ao

DIR

15952

We 20-1

B.

1342 (N76424)

C.

DIR 14500

19-4

532

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4 JUN 65 N 82939

0z

1• : SUBJ REFS CONTACTED

VIA UNSNAFU/S ON 25 MAY, TO REQUEST

AID, SUBSEQUENTLY REFUSED ON SECURI

GROUNDS, IN OBTAINING

SPANISH VISA AS REPORTED REF B. IN

AUDITION TO REF B, FOLLOWING

POINTS DISCUSSED WITH MIRRLEES WHO HAD

tWO MEETS WITH SUBJ ON 25 MAY, FIRST AT

MEET WITH CUNSNAFU/9 AND SECOND BAR HOTEL NAPOLEON TO GIVE SUBJ

ANSWER ON VISA.

1.::

SUBU STATED HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH KUBARK 15 TIMES AND

15 TIMESANAD DISSOLVED RELATIONSHIP. STATED. KUBARK LAST ATTEMPTED

CONTACT HIM NEW YORK VIA ODURGE TWO MONTHS AGO AND THAT; HE THEN

AGREED TO CONTACT. SUBJ STATED' NOT INTERESTED IN CONTACTS WITH LOW-

LEVEL TYPES, ONLY HIGHEST PBPRIME LEVELS. SUBJ STATED HAD MANY

HIGH LEVEL FRIENDS IN POPRIME GOVI. NAMED BOBBY KENNEDY AS ONE

WHO ONCE

HELPED HIM OUT OF JAM.

SUBJ SATD TOOK PART MANY RAIDS

---

## Page 2

ON

82939 / 47

• PBRUMEN® (RELATED MANY "STORIES" OF EXPLOITS CONNECTED THIS

3. SUBJ SPOKE IN SAME VEIN OF DISCONTENTMENT OF "NO ACTION"

AND OF MADR GROUP, SPECIFICALLY NAMING QQUSPORT/1, AS DID AMLASH/3,

GINDGÑAFU/9. AS REPORTED REF B, SUBJ STATED WOULD HAVE (@USPORT/1

KICKED OUT (PRESUMABLY KUBARK) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. SUBJ AND

(UNSNAFU/9, AS WELL AS AMLASH/3, HAVE REPEATED EXPRESSED THEIR

HIGH REGARD OF BELIEF IN AMLASH/1. NOW THAT AMLASH/3 IS IN PBRUMEN,

SUBJ AND (UNSNAFU/9 SPEAK OF HIM IN SAME RESPECT AS AMLASH/I.

SAID THEY ARE NOW RISKING LIVES AND ONLY

LA

WAY THEY WILL GET OUT OF PBRUMEN WILL BE STEAL PERNE AND ATTEMPT

ESCAPE. UNSNAFU/S HAS STATED SEVERAL TIMES, SINCE APRIL BOTH TO

GLOADEN AND MIRRLEES, THAT "SOMETHING BIG" GOING TO HAPPEN IN

NEXT THREE MONTHS. SUBJ ANDCUUGNAFU/S BOTH STATED TIME IS RIPE

FOR ACTION.

4.

SUBJ ARRIVED. IN PARI FROM LOND ON 21 MAY. WHEN MIRRLEES

ASKED SUBJ WHY HIS KUBARK CONTACIS IN PB.PRIME HAD NOT PROVIDED

NECESSARY ARRANGMENIS FOR VISA, SUBJ STATED HIS BUSINESS' MADR NOT

KUBARK SPONSORED AND KUBARK NOT AWARE OF IT. SUBJ INSISTED

IT IMPERATIVE HE ARRIVE MADR 25 MAY TO SPEAK TO "IMPORTANT MEMBER

THEIR GROUP." SUBJ SAID ALSO SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN ZRMETAL BY 25

---

## Page 3

SO° IF KUBARK

JULD NOT OBTAIN VISA HE WOLLD HAVE

rw82939

Page 3

RETURN

157

PBRPIME AND FROM THERE

RETURN MADR LATER DATE. SAID THIS COMPLI-

CATES HIS PLANS.

SUBJ SOUGHT KUBARK ASSISTANCE ONLY AFTER NORMAL

VISA APPLICATION DETERMINED TO TAKE TOO LONG•

5.

TAL

WHEN MIRRLEES HAD SECOND MEET WITH SUBJ TO CONFIRM RESULTS

WITH STOCKWOOD RE VISA (MIRRLEES FIRST TOS SUBJ SHE WOULD

CHECK WITH HER BOSS BUT CERTAIN WOULD BE DENIED ON SECURITY GROUNDS

TWO FRIEND, OF SUBS APPEARED: MAN NAMED "FRANK" APPROX 26-29

STATED HAD KNOWN SUBJ LONG TIME. GIRL "DANIELLE" APPROX 20 DID

NOT SPEAK. BOTH APPEARED BE STUDENTS. MAN APPEARED EFFEMINATE.

SUBJ PROPOSED MIRRLEES JOIN GROUP FOR DINNER SUT MIRRLEES DECLINED

OFFER AS HAD OTHER PLANS.

6. FROM ABOVE, II OBVIOUS THERE TWO DIFFERENT STORIES RE KUBARK

CONTACT WITH SUBJ. SUBJ'S LINE OF THOUGHT EXACILY, ALMOST TO SAME

WORDS, AS THAI. OF AMLASH/3, CUNSNAFU/9.

7. REGARDING. PARA IWO REF A, STATION NOT AWARE COMMENT THIS SUBJECT

IN GROUPS

NOT ALREADY CONNECTED WITH AMLASH ONE. FROM HERE PROB

LEM SEEMS BE THAT AMLASH CIRCLE IS WIDE AND EACH NEW

FRIEND OF WHOM

WE LEARN SEEMS TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF PLAN.

SECRET

2/pv

---

