# 104-10256-10337

## Page 1

104-10256-10337

CONADESITIAL

Chier, Mopraisal Section

24 JUL 1955

Ward K. Greene

Appraisal Section

WILCOTT, James Bernard, Jr.

7109301

WILCOTT, Elsle Louise

7109300

1. The Subject persons are man and wife. James Wilcott is currently

essigzed as a Staff Agent, GS-OT, to DDP/UH at JAVI. His wife wes en-

ployed by this Agency

during 1960 and has held paa sual, employment out uses not appear to be

currently enployed. The Calef, PSD has requested that an overall revles

of the Subject personal records be made in light of In'ormation which bes

recently been developed. Such infornation Indicates that Jares WIlcott

has had contacts with poasible. known Comunists and with individuals le-

volved In the Integration moverent.

2. A revier of the Ille of James Wilcott reflects that he is 33 jea

of age, married, and native-born of native-down parents. He gradusted

from kigh school in 19h8 and from 1948 to 1952 served In the United States

Army- From 1953 to 1957 he attended college, being privately employed during

the sage perlod. On 4 March 195T, James Wilcott entered on duty silta tale

Agenci. During polygraph Interview at that time,

23d w33

favorably re-polygrapsed in 1958.

His security file reflects no deresetory

Infornation from 1958 to the present, with the exception of Arry medical

records reviewed In 1956 which Indicated that he "complained contisually

of bachache, but that medical examination revealed no organic cause-

Conference with his Company Commander revealed en 'extremely poor adjuat-

rent' to milltary life and Indicated that he continually used his alleged

redical disabllity In order to get out of works and built such a wall around

himself that his Company Cormander felt that he was of no use to his artfle"

3. A revlew of Elsie Wilcott's Ille reflects that she Is 30 jesis

of age, terried, and native-born of native-born parents. She attezded

college until 1954 and from 1954 to 1956 was orivately employed. In March

of 1957 she entered on duty with this Agency as a Clers-Typist, GS-Oi,

having been favorably polygraphed. In Septemoer of 1958 she resizzed to

continue her education

In 1960, Elsle Wilcott was issued security 39-

proval for Contract lyfe A employment at the Takyo Station.

(She cad

James Wilcott were married in September of 1954)

--..

S1:00":

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

4o On 5 April 1965, James Wilcott advined & representative of FAB

that while viniting with members of an Integration novement, he had come

In contact with an individual who profensed to be a member of the Communist

Party. Although the reasons for his contacta with there Individuals are

not entirely clear, a revier of subject's atatements reflecte the follow

1ng: On 10 April 1965, Jemen Wilcott, hereafter referred to as Subject,

vas in contact with one Ray Robinson Junior (IR-QS Indices), & representa-

tive of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. Robinson asked

Subject to come to 1618 Corcoran Street, Nashington, D. C. to meet a number

of Integration movement people. According to Subject's mtatemente, when

he arrived at this address a group of about eight people were sitting around .

"arinking and smoking marijuana."

Among these was one Alex Parslkloff

(NH-08 Indices), • self-amitted Communiot.

So After various discussion with members of the group, Subjeat agreed

to drive Fasulkloft and one Alfred Anith, & student at Howard University,

to New York City. They arrived In llew York City about 5100 a. I. on Ll Aprll

1965, and went to the apartment of friends of Pasilkloft,

Joseph A, and Betty Rotand1 (MR-OS Indices). The Rotandl's are also de-

seribed as dedicated Carmuniat Party members.. During this dey, Subject,

Pasalkloff and the others vialted an Indlvidual Identified as Blyden Jackson

(IR-03 Indices) who lo the head of a new organisation called Council for

Jobs and Freedom of llew York (IR-03 Indices). Subject and others also

"ended up" at the West Side W. E. B. Dubole Club in New Jork Olty. (The

Ho L. B. Dubola Clubs are well identifled as s new lational Marxiat organi-

sation, branded by J. Edgar Hoover as "aparned by the Cominiat Farty,

There are a number of questions currently unanswered in the case

of the fubjeet persons. Among these are? How long has James Wilcott

been Involved In the SNCC movement?; Where was Elale Wilcott during the

trip to New York Clty, and Why did James Wilcott allor himelf to become

Involved In thia matter to the extent of going to New York City with these

persons and viulting other Individuale who are allegedly self admitted

Commundate!

Subject has apparently reported to his atation at dillAve. How.

ever, It'le belleved that his involrement with the aforementioned Individuals

1e extremely serfous, for the most part because of unanavered questions.

Therefore, It le considered that he should be interviewed in depth as soon

as posuible regarding his Involvement in this matter. It la recomended

CONCENTAL

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

that the Beourity Officer, INHAVE be briefed on thie case and asked to

conduct a comprehensive intervier of Bubject.

ard k. Greer

ppraisal SeotIc

TAR: 213

CONFIDENTIAL

---

