# 104-10180-10061

## Page 1

104-10180-10061

Retr

NITO GIA

Backgroine

Sly

03

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER CHEET

EROM:

dediro G1"

REPOS A MO:

REPORT MADE Bri DULONE A SAUSAVaTISlAN

REPÓRT APPROVER er; WIlLard EL SOREL.

DATE-DE REPORT: 24 Fobruary 1960

DISTRIBUTION:

By copy

to:

Orally 89:

"-Habana

ENCLOSURES: NE

REEFRENCES: OTT-510; DIl/269: 0001m52,56

los F11o Ho. 507-18

Told File Hee 50-7-15-

3-PLies

SOURCE CRYPTONYM:

TG TU:

KRYPTON

SOURCE. OPERATIONAL DATA AND COMMENTSS

SOURCISE

Hallaco C. Rakon From Manuel Francisco ATLa Buesa

SUSJECT:

Activitles of the Moviniento Recuporacion Revolucionaris (153), AntI-CASTRO

Orginication

catalise

: Source does not runenber names eusily, ant

of the names sentiond in this. ro

port maj te inconplate.

White Source us extrately open ind courative in describ

117 moit deialls of lie Mul, he refused to identity the 1n3 noiser sithin Curan Amir

Incelligonce on the grounds shut the intomation vas too sensitio.

2e

Rogardina Inforantion recuested In DIR1106%, Source roported shie tno radio stations

are beins estaolished, one in Mexico and onu in Cuba.

The " arifesto le atil?"

pending and must be read by Sourco bofore it circulates in Cas, he lst has circu

Inted tho folloring anti col-O ater alas

(a) 250c

€0Sep

rosinition Loiter of Kuniel Franciscollari's Suess;

(8) A chspter of AlL's boos (tre chaptar Is entitled carretrable Heotine)

(e) A second letter pron AtrIs ln roply to accusations maie on te'evision by fidel

CASINO;

Par

6, Source

reported that i ran plannero zel, on the plane from flabana

to Noxioge bender of the British abassy In mexico City who fariled hir and Chrough

• Sourco to Lalä with him at the british

Pisso somard a copy os the dosa nition or enla resore to Strelara

RIS PLANS QUD NUTS AS LUISES

19-927

PLA STITIO!

13.3

B:ú:0%

CS COPY 2472160

POR 1885 84-90 09101088 18871688

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

melod arrassa.

80:s0

+48189899.89299

7888'8910

100010410

'is dada brocal angelast

8: 1968231

COUNTRY Peelio, tis

Becaoricion leroiuchcrta (123);

AND 10 08a22401

REFORI NO. $5: 1796

DATE OF REPORI: 1 :0: 108-189 1010.

NO. OF PACES 2

REFERENCES

11112)

11110

1211-:159

DATE OF February 1960

INFO.

FLACE &

CATE ACO.

Mexleo, toxico City (15 Februniy 1900)

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOIE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE.

Person with good connection anon; anti-chit Cuian edles in P'exico (0),

• Iãa a numbor di the sat (P) •

The main centors of activity of tie dovalento lecuperacion Ravolucionerla

(ist?, courdirated ane1-Gast novement) althin Cuis are in the provinces

ol H.bana, Pinas del Rio, Canaguey, and Oriente. The :9kl his tho following

Leaders In Cuis:

in englicer.

• nablol Torritorial

co-pillaur

• goneral co-ordirator

742997

= afrector or proparand

chlot ot Oriente

Province

-entit or Habana Prov

• chlet milltury core

Catar of action

intelralle

1e63

is the Canolloc

08

7IO9

11:105:

---

## Page 3

:ó'o, U " á 8a%,.

The bat do aldo do euco suó aodpo ió sa losulote ivpegci

Cu a, Anclulini o acáns ul daio inso liieilience (un).

Miorlnolinad lane dag Hluen grsos dha les fiblla orat.is! Foraor laa

monleo tewemone en linhana mien 1e nold cianieac1e9

sounl.n

blon alsa nre ln torch Ili the 1io

tialoar leaiengcx iho :erllanr

tovormont la Orionto, n's Clar, anl Fliar d0l Rlo poelicoa aro loli

aurlictod he liro 11a seet le la mileo de.

vihi dfsorts

to focr.ll MinJor

06,0$

iIn addibion to tio Intriritod 400g dr 10 14. J0t1 1031

anl citiilte s

nia, the Mil has rolblon an la rmiawvoran lo corul cloier slllancer

csordin.tlon. or com;:g1610: w1ch 480-follobard

Kansel Anlonlo VANCiA

aal his solzona )esi de napta or sanho puun of cauono ierdacoo.

vlelela lne fareldo iu eilles Abstenclanlaeni aillors of

Lhe niii crouig•

The or

AInaabon 10 aiRO 1n Louch ilh Jone TOMer NATTITA OiClcers, gunh na &ejoi

acuTA anl Sanual Villihid Sartines, and nith

•ioii

The Mel medos 1) a baie werg de oa jre Eilliag Crainin. your® jeoplo

nho laco milltury exierience, ?) Instrucions to lre the ailliog brainings

aN 3) erulsmont, Inc8oan: 477159163

aid planes.

siny cu 111

wroth In Cuha

and surord, hise offered finelal assisturce o the Mry hopr,

Ches iiloney

wlll nos le forthemin: unttl a hase 1s establis.el In saiio frea sitch the

•pite cin start nursin'e

1C0iu62L

abas noa iniaalco, his beengoroncad so the eu do an insoros

for fidel UniO iuse Fegse

Fiau ESCHrOCo, One of bie

rasnb satsoiints

An she

hand

cicoxclly.

tloie

lavine ousolo ulrectsd s a'nst Anistas

Pinoy an,

1 noN

Buld Chit manp or. tho:g

410 partloli shadl:

LnEte

090:: 3r6-

Wlrr ind Mil

Aive su learo Cuiio

MaRWLO Mo dLsshaRoes drus nis gull à kann ier lla

parv in cra.

snei-lanke

Ested

Bumiane.

Huno nimes so troips

Ban ne rasashrr. Lla adlo enee 120 wa

previrisly roorted 1nl:4799 433425

Aict

163

Sourco Grimants

Wama nes groie co oluliuero necs be oenueo in noaltent of

Cisto

to callod es ver

Tho sett oxein

Eory man;

anarelilel

In salnor rale

30 010 t

Wliet

Plei

08

Yop

---

