# 104-10213-10011

## Page 1

104-10213-10011

Taamsbateet91971224900sk0325.7008s22229g

o aero.àa.=.

tewati"

•.

-..

ATTACNENT 1

STRSYES 20S 221 3AST 6304

EEN B4SO MUN ONOGNM

..itiaairood

wieite-yo

---

## Page 2

14-00000

9 Nay 1977

SUBJECT: Cubana Flights

1. The Mexico Station surveillance of Cubana flights in

1903 consisted of a unilateral group (LIFIRE) and two separate

groups (LITEMPO and LIEVOY) handled

a. LIFIRE was handled by Robert Feldmann. These sources

observed arrivals and departures of Cubana flights.

They

right manty anusual incidents and provided copies of the

This travel was routinely reported to

Washington by cable (JMal Cuban Travel).

A copy of the

manifests was sent later by dispatch to Washington with

the same reporting crypt.

by ches and LlENor were handled (on the policy level)

I made the daily pick-up meetings with Career Agent Jerem

K. Benadum for LITEMPO and Staff Agent Amold F

for LIENDY. LITE TO was a surveilance team of arenart

• They operated a concealed

camera and photographed incoming passengers'

from the Cubana flights.

to outgoing [

vere photographed because the facilities for departure:

were located at the other end of the airport and not

_ camera operation was

They also

130-0-91/ Job 57-200/50, Box 13). LIEVVOY

and the Mexican Airport Control Office.

2. I checked with Robert Feldmann who said he thought all of the

Cubana flights were passenger flights.

A review of the transcripts for

the Connercial Office of the Cuban Embassy for late 1965 indicates that they

were shipping large quantities of automobile parts, foods and medicines

from Mexico City to Havana by Cubana Airlines. Statements to clients on

what day they could send cargo and packages by Cubana led me to the

conclusion that all the flights to Mexico Citr from Havana could carry

passengers but some of the flights out were basically cargo (with the

capability of also carrying a few passengers).

From manifests, it appears

that Cubana made a flight from Havana to Mexico City and return every

other day.

There was a flight on 22, 25, and 27 November 1963. The

22 and 25 lovember flights carried passengers.

The 27th Vovember flight

carried ?5 passengers to lexico and returned with LOPEZ and it is believed

• a plane load of cargo. (LITEYPO passenger list attached).

---

## Page 3

14-00000

19'N

• Policula (1)

Rollo 19

Encargado de Terno: MIFCIAL VALIDOE IRA:

Agente Com!

*_) 108 LUIS FLOTES DOMIGUE

PASAJEFOS (JE ILEGAFOI: EN EL VUELO 464 DE LA COMPAÑIA CUBANA DE AVIACIO!

CESITES DE CUEN EL DIA 22 DE OVIDIORE de 1063a JeS 12120 HORAS.

NOMBRES.

NACIONALIDAD.

- 1. BERNARDO L. HDIMILA Y VAZGUEZ.

CUBAiA.

12. MARIA DEL CARIEN LOPEZ TRUJILLO.

MEXICANA.

3. LETICIA RODRIGUEZ LOPEO.

PEi:ICANA.

= 4.- JOCE ARTURO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ.

FENICLA

"5. - BENITO MACIÇUES SOTO.

CUBAIA.

'6.- BERIA ROSA GOMEZ TINERA.

CUBANA ®

7.- MARIA ORISTELA MOITEAGUDO LOPEZ.

CUSAIIA.

8. - MARIANO ANTOLIN LUIS BLAICO GUINTERO.

COMANA®

-9.- ANGEL DELFIN EDUARDO LUARCA ESPINOZA.

CUBANA.

- 1C.- JUANA ESTHER TALAVERA I PALENZUELA.

CUBAl:A.

11.- ARSENIO GARCIA Y FERNANDEZ.

CUBANA.

•12.- MARTEA BEATRIZ LOITAR AGUDO.

- 13.- WONG WING CHI.

"I4. HUGO CASTRO RAMOS.

15.-JUSTIMA DE LA COLCEPCION RAMOS JIENEZ.

¿16. HUGO ANTONIO CASTRO REYES.

"17.-CARIOS HUMBERTO FULLES ALTAPEZ.

18. 2 PURGIA ROGUE HERRERA.

I9.-AMADORA MARIA LOPEZ Y FERNANDEZ.

20. -JOSE MANUEL LALELAS LATRA.

121. -ALFREDO ALEJANIRO ROQUE HERRERA.

'22 MiLARIA MONTATO ARTEAGA.

- 23. EDUARDO MONTAÑO ORTEGA.

/24. AHADEL OBDULIA. MARTIN GUERRA.

25.- EMILIO FERRER Y SAÏGRA.

26.- ESTHER GENARE SANTA MARIA COLUINT.

27. - MADALINA LABBE Y MAPREN.

"28.- VIOLETA JUSTINA FUENTES SUAPEZ.

' 29. JUSTINA VIOLETA RIOSECO FUENTES.

13O. - IELLA ROSA SOLER AÑIIS.

32.- CAULENCIA TONAS NUIELO

132. AGUSTIN ALFREDO FOQUE AIREU.

,33. - ALFPEDO JUAN COLLAZO LATEZ.

-34.- OTBLIA GONZALEZ FERIArDEZ.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBAILA,

CUBAITA.

CUSAIA.

CUBANA®

CUBAA.

CUBAITA.

CUBANA®

CUBAlA.

CUBANA,

CUBANA,

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA,

CUBANA®

CUBANA®

CUBMiA.

CUDAIA.

CUSAiA.

CURANA.

: 242632

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Hoja número 2.

MONDRES:

HACIONALIDAD

36. - JUANA HAPII QUINTALA MARTINEZ VIERA.

CURANA •

37. - ALFREDO LANIELA CASTIÑCIRO.

38.-MARIA TERESA LONGA RUIZ.

39. - HILDA RUIZ ACOSTA.

40 - CRISTOBAI MANUEL LUNGA FUIZ.

41. - ELVIRA JOSEFLA DE IS MERCEDES BUENO.

42. - ELVIRA MESA MARTINEZ.

43. ESPERANZA SEVERA FAES FARDIAS.

.14 BOTHER MARIA SOSA LANTE.

'45•- PETRA ESTELA FERRERA DOMINGUEZ.

46, MARIA DE LOS ANGELES FERIALEZ PEREZ®

47. JOSE FERNANDEZ PEREZ®

ó 43. - CATALINA TERESA FEREZ GOIZALEZ.

249 - MANUEL FERMANIEZ FAJARDO.

50.- JOSE FRAICISCO PABLO HAY DE LA PUENTE.

,51.- MARIA COLICEPCION PATRICIA GOlIZ FERRER.

52.- FRANCISCO ALBERTO MONZO FERNANDEZ.

53.- ADRIAN HILARIO GONZALEA ESCAMILIA,

54. - JESUS MARIA MERLEZ CARCIA.

,55.- EFIESTINA LE LA SANTISIA VIRGEN BERRAL GONZALZZ. CUBAIA.

56 - JESUS SIXTO GARCIA BERNAI.

57. OSCAR ARCADIO SORI MARQUEZ.

-58. IYDIA FERNANDEZ MONTEAVARO.

59. SARA IARDA NEVYS BARTERA.

60.• EDUARDO SORIA LEVYS.

-61. - JOSE MANUEL GOlIZALEA FERIANDEZ.

•62-- ARGELINA CRISTINA LODOZA BARBERENA.

63. LUIS ENRIQUE PADRON JACOBO.

64 - ROSARIO ESTHER HORTENCIA GOIZALEZ FERNANDEZ.

65. MARIA FERRER GARCIA.

-66.- JUANA ANADA DE LA OSA ARMAS.

6% AiTA MORRAIN & MATA.

CUBANIA.

CUBAiTA.

CUE ALTA®

CUBAITA®

CUPAiTA,

CUBAIA.

CURAlIA.

CUBANIA®

CUBAITA®

CUBAiLA.

CUBANA,

CUBARLA,

CUBANA®

CUBAITA.

CUBARiA.

CUBAiA®

CUBARA•

CUBANA•

CUSAIA.

CUBANA.

CUSA?IA.

CUBARA®

CUBARA.

CUBANA.

CUBARA,

CUBANIA.

CUBANA,

CUBANTA®

CUBANA.

68. EUGENIA PIFEZ MORHAI.

69 - VISTORIA GONZALEZ FERNANDEZ.

20.- OASTON PIREZ PEREZ.

CUBARA®

nare

..: CUBANA •

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Hoja aúnere 30=-

NOMBRES®

2104 EMMA RODRIGUSE ROJAS.

72.- VICTORIA CEROGINA HAYAS RUIZ.

73. CECILIO MORALES SOTO.

84. FIDEL FRIETO LUNA.

175. JOSE ANGEL QUEIMALILDiOS ALENAI.

NACIONALIDAD..

CUBA"A®

CUBANA,

CUBAILA®

CUBANA®

ARGEITI:A.

÷ 34

.....

---

