# 104-10209-10243

## Page 1

(104-10209-10243---

..

& LA OKALONE IUT:

SUBJECT

irector

Federal burcau d Lovescigatio..

: Lee harvey strin

1. Subsequent to the prejaration of our Ci-1-)/77), 617, dated

* February 1964, subjece as aicre, in reburse to yuur couuunication

DL 1.Po1001, dated 31 Lecesiber 1903, ile Aurder 8ü) 165-x255s.

additiosal inforration on the subject nas curio to our allenlon. This

Inormallos was receiveu fror. your vilice in your cast unication

DBA 579u1, dated 20 jecen.uor 19u3. it is reveaded beion for the

convendence uf your persouded involved an lie to. "Ll case.

2o Concerning the entry on pajo 03 of stA "D's address book:

"Ler setyaer - kadio doscow

Leo seiyaer

V-ci-on (bork)

Maro-i reschanays 2319

Ape. 65%

a report from your afice, DBA 59901, dated 20 Decer ber 1963, subject

Lillie hay BAlili, contains the following information: Anoette (aze

ZUGUFFICETY-EVA, aLa anila day ZUGUAF, aba Anera lay LUGOFF.

alia Annette k. iliNhlin, porn do Novemcer 1919 at idio Steveao,

Washington le married to a Leo S¿TIAL V sha vorked for Radio à oscow,

Annote SaTYrEVA, uho appearo to ve the daugblor of Lille? ay k11lt.

BLa LIlle Day TISLICi, AXE LILie LaY EUGUET, Dorn & Noverber 1902

at Viella Townanip, b'ichigan, travelled to the Soviet Union la 1935 and on

20 Diarch 1936 became a cilinen ul the JiSh. Al leadt unlil July i962.

Annelte mas reportedly narried to a ilL NIN. (la) For a nur ber of

yearo Annette has worked as an announcer la the Amercan Section aí

Radio foscon. Allegedly, sho la the kadlo l ascore announcer knawn as

/"Bioscos li olly" who

---

## Page 2

these lanes.

SETYALV) nao reported to be residing al iotel nichestaya 1/15,

Secton Ve A. 19, A oscow, listi.

3. The 196ü Moscow Telephone rectory licta di.. V. lALAKIN.

telephone: B-11759 at the adároso a arci alchedraya 1/15. lu aparteent

nus ver is lated. There Are no furlier traces on tElY?EV is i¿Nani

(rulinadil), sacogá for reports ll your oilice, tere are alin a furlaer

4, Your olfice will de advised of any further portinent infornation.

F'OR THE DEIUTY DIRICTOR ECH ILINS:

JANIS ANGLIION

CSC1- 3/779.988

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/CI

1 - C/C1/SIG

1 - C/CI/R&A

1 = C/SR

1 - C/SR/CI

2 - C/SR/C1/R (hold cy & comeback cy)

1 - SR/O/US/di

1 - 201-289,218

SR/C1/Research

el 11 February 1964

• 2-

•-==

---

