# 104-10185-10206

## Page 1

104-10185-10206

#B August 1964

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: ANMJU/1 - Phone Call to Cuba

On today's date Nr. Lo Cantl and I vere told by

24 AMMUG/I that he had called Cuba tron the apartmont at

Don Fednesday night.

As en cacure for baving

done so featnut our instructiona to vait until lir. Salely'a

return he started blentas the lack of help roceived from

any of us in thie satter. he calied the ic operator and

placod the call at 2030 on 11 August 1904 and contacted

ble miio at 2330 to 2310 bours.

AMMUG/] cented having

discussed his vhereabout.

and stated that the only thin- discussed was the leck o1

regular null to and from his and bis

According to

Aud/l his wife told hir that she bad been ordered to

vacate her quartery in Havans and that she had not been

bothered by any Intelligence organizition.

3.

I set upon him and side clear to hin his position

1n this country visits ourselves.

Rather seriQuely I

made him adnit that his actions

boen done as those of

an overcrown child rather thin of en intelligent mo and

ar Intelligenco agent.

I told hay that now the bod and

tbo lidI anew bis exact thorosbouts and that the strong

possibility existed of his phone being tapped.

naised how this could be l reminded bin that the Cubang

had eyes and ears here in the

presence of the Crech inussy,

(The latter stateient vas neant strictly to throw

a scare into dia.)

After bo had admitted his foolishnesa 1 told hlu

thet any recueste for furthar phone calls and or lottere

would bo curtailed.

Thet se would allow hin to writo his

wife only. ill other mitters are to selt for ur. Salely®e

5. Re bis Impearians trip to Madrid, he said that perhaps

the trip should be suspenced until ho thought the time would

be sise and then only by binsulf. I aleo set upon lite at

.....

---

## Page 2

4.0000

•Zam

his point and made hin understand that the proposed trtl

ould be made when we said and as we auld.

This also be

Another romark by his that 1f 1t were

years was handled by me shockingly and naswured by the

roars that she would have been out yesterday.

€. Before we left ANual he ronniered that be deserred

the dressing com I had giren his and that he rould not

sulk about it becauso in spite of everything he had done,

he vas not a child.

B. H1da180

WH/SA/CI

Distribution:

1 • AX: L:/1 £11€

1 • Vivian

—Rerney

1 = RHUSA/C1/Chrono

---

