# 104-10183-10259

## Page 1

104-10183-10259

WAlSA 164-250

is october 1864

SISVORANDLI

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

1s1mu0/1 Operation

06.

Meeting with

Caturday,

10 Sctober 1084

Memorandun, Cated 19 Cctober 1064 06

concerning brletlag.of

Following the meeting described In the reference;

requesied a separate isecing watch was held

on Saturday, 10 vetober 1094.

mas presert at the meeting.

During the meeting the matters covered on the

prevlous day. with the

Were scriewed and the

specific action to be taxen was Indicated with agreecent on

the following points:

inecial treatmont should bs given to the

06

and one (ow. (1201

to will be able to lently ll shown a photegraph.

Every

eifort should be made to identlly the last-named person

and then to recruit all four of them. Meanwhile, all

Information aralible concernine them should bo

collected and furnished to the

Mor forwarding16-2

to ileararters. The object In each of these cases

should be to achieve contacts with them for the perpose

of ellecting recruitmerts. I regulred, we will hare

a Copsa who knows the Individuals and whom they

prillere to be d Cutan Litelligence officer go to

: 16-2

for tho purpose of coctacting them urder

costrolled conditions ubich will persilt us to montor

the curversation during the fle that he poees ni

still active la Cuban Intelligence. Following thie,

the recrulument attempt would be made in each caso

possibly by one al cur ollicars ll'the circumstaices

---

## Page 2

at tho time indicate that this procedure would be

most likely to be a euccess

B.

• Without miting for the outcome of effort to

cocrult the lour Individuala descrlbed above, the

• 24

should bend evory effort

to locate all those Individuals (possibly an many

as 2C0) who have received guerrilla warfare training

In Cuba, and to arrest them. Marmum publicity

should be given to te arrests once they have been

questloned. Hopefully declarations will be mado

vy some of them which will moist in elective

propajanda use of thelr arrest and their

involvement in subversion on behal of tre ture

government. They should be intervlewed separ

ately ard, if possible, some with greater potentia.

should be doubled so that they may serve to keep

us informed of plans for subversion In the future.

C. • The

should keep us advised at

every stage or the progress made in the cases so

that we may lend assistance when appropriate.

said that he understood the

importance of the cave ara would do his utmost to follow

through in ling with the action proposed above.. He said that

although he does not have a largo organization, it l socure and

Is capable of collecting Information and of arranging for

the arrests and interrogation.

discussed three other cases

Faso one case oll

case of

ald that full

details corcerning the

had been seut to

Headauarters, Tats is the same caxerhich according to

lacting on

The

cases are beiny made the subjects of

separate memoranca.

Harold F. Ewenson

Chief, WU/SA/CI

---

