# 104-10112-10321

## Page 1

104-10112-10321

F RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

13 August 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SSD

SUBJECT

: Covert Sites - General

# 77 500

1. Reference is made to your recent request for in-

formation relative to individuals mentloned in In Cable 00349

from FR

Basis for the cable was FBI information

concerning allegations that a Washington, D.C. office located

some 4 or 5 blocks from the White House and leased to the

Drug Enforcement Agency was being used by CIA as an elec-

tronic surveillance listening post. The Office, allegedly

operated by a CIA officer, Lucien Conels, is purported to be

subleased from Howard Gibson, head of the Washington office

of the Atlanta based firm, Central Investigative Agency. The

owner of the Central Investigative Agency was reputed to be

Mitchell WERBELL, an Atlanta resident, who allegedly is a

The / Bl areot advise

un runner ahat Gibson and Werbell are currently in litigation

FRI

for some reason and that Gibson is probably capable of spread-

ing the story about a CIA listening post in an effort to embarrass

Werbell.

2. Subseguently you advised that it had been determined

that the alleged site in question was Suite 1209 A, located at

1028 Conn. Ave. N.W. Washington, D.C. reportedly occupied

by a firm of Securi ty Consultants.

You were advised at that time

that review of Office of Security records reflected no connection

by CIA with the office in question nor any current interest in any

of the principals involved. O of S records reflect no existing in-

terest in any office space at 1028 Conn. Ave. N.W. although one

agency component has expressed a potential future interest in a

Suite on the l0th floor of that building, La Salle Building, at 1028

Conn. Ave. N. W. To date it not only has not occupied that Suite

but has not determined whether they shall proceed towards future

utilization.

z/p0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3. Further, we were advised that Lucien E. Conien,

former staffer (OS#5025) about whom there was much publicity

in the past in connection with covert agency operations in the

Fat East, in now employed by the Drug Enforcement Agency.

4. Search of O of S records were negative as to: Howard

Gibson; Security Defense System; Intelligence Services, Ltd.; and

Advance Security Corp. O of S recorde reveal a file & 660 374 on

one Steve Van Cleave; however, this file was only established in

January 1974 as a result of inquiries and searches conducted then

in response to an interest expressed by Lyle Miller, Office of

Legislative Counsel. Van Cleave had apparently suggested to

Washington sources that he worked for CIA in Latin America under

cover of Coca Cola Company This was false. John Patrick

Muldoon is the Subject of O.S. file # 134 816. Muldoon ie a former

staff employee (1958-1972), who retired in November 1972. The

latest file information indicates that he may be employed as the

Washington representative of a firm, Security Consultants Inter-

national. O of S records were negative re this firm. It in under-

stood that an FBI inquiry re Muldoon is currently being handled by

Mr. Tim Harrington

5. Mitchell Livingston Werbell III (OS# 27686), was in the OSS

briefly (7/45-12/45) during WW Il and has repeatladly come to CLA

attention through the years. He has a reputation as a "wheeler-

dealer-con man -gun runner-soldier of fortune" and his activities.

particulary in the F.E. and WH areas, continually brush up against

CIA interests. In Feb. 1967, the DomesticeContact Service advised

that Werbell III frequently volunteered information to their Miami

office. The files reflect no other indication of CIA use of Werbell,

In Jan. 1974, the Office of General Counsel (Mr. Diettel) was la-

quiring about Werbell'e son, Mitchell L. Werbell IV, who was re-

putedly an officer in the Central Investigation Agency, Atlanta, Ga.

The FBI conducted a National Agency name check at CIA on Werbell

III in Sept. 1962.

John E. Meehan

Acting Chief, EAB

---

