# 104-10074-10007

## Page 1

104-10074-10007

MASPORET

3,11

sauice: adso

5B2

Der Ho

senbern ef the Cent

1n Pas-10

Imboald

omitteo of the Trennh Comunant Part

merto the cotton talesa by sal

conte

RETURN TO CIA

Backaround Use Onlv

Do Not Reproduce

day

WAB

monbare of th

Mon of th

100/ (00

2947)₽

E 3E

"beg

100041

Mino

81d

home

MICROFILI

TEDEX

NAY 6- 1955

DATE 8 DEC 1952

1 ang. i?

RI CỚTY

705406

24

REF FORIN MILED

IN: 201-2150

01-53739

ENGLA

10446

Pittmai

---

## Page 2

14-00000

13-4

ad

dirende fa

c..

Battis.

11641

72:

Organd

foton"

SULA

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COUNTRY

• ILaly/Yugoslavlo/Franco/at.316a1n/USA

SUBTLOT

i Willan Zebaron tossel:

ORIGIN

75-1

DATE OF INFO & An #tated:

DATE

# hay 15m 1947

15-9

Fon. 1U.30444

repartod that FosTER.

had

arrived

A few

dayb.

Won 16d.47

heard

1.15

that gooording to 10001

press

reports of 25.3.dl., FosTIr had left rugo lay.

84-3.47

No, details were given regerding lo destination,

but the pread report mentioned that he had been accompanied

ba the suala lander of tho labour progressive party of Canada.

"A

report doted 1.4.47 for

stated that after the

Britlab Communist Farty Congress In London, Boveral Important

the same time devornl Communist delegates

gato, nà well as delegaton from creede;

Our source, however, does not know names of any

axcept those montloned.

"Several meetings were held at the Headquartera of the Central

committee of the french communat tarty at a que le teletier

tone of thaid mooting the Lo lowing were know to have beer

presents Hillen 20s 1at

Rober tyREur, and

*

muon of what happenad at

observed, he ataton that the meeting was concerned with untting

of morld demooretlo foroon aralnat Internationgt reaction. In

chis connection, the french cominist deadore are said to have

very much regretted the diffloulty of bringing about the union

between the American Pederation of Labour, and the Congress of

Industrin? Organiantion in the j.s.lo

---

## Page 4

14-00000

"Jacques,

DUOLOS made a spoclal roport epiasiaing

that thia woa

ore of the nost important tasks to ve oaroled out by the Camunisis

within the C.I.0.

"Dosidos the abovo, the question of Groion and Turkoy was ducussod,

notably the question of boycotilng of var materials sunt to those

"Finally,

the ascroront speakors apoke of the necessity of dorandl.:

the U SailoR by all possible means.

"Andre MiRTY 1a said to have apoclally deult with le quescion of

Labour all the corones.

anphaaling the necessity of bringing about

according to our airce,

whith had

chlofa in Paria.

"we understand that all other detaila nbout FOSTER's

arrival and

doparture fron this sounory have already buen passed to you by l

TZU

---

