# 104-10433-10039

## Page 1

104-10433-10039

70

INFO.

DISPATCH

Chief,

SIASHNA.

AlEn: Chief

FROM

Chief

SUBJECT

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

For Your Information.

2

Attachment:

h/w.

Copy of a report passed

to

•Distributton:

w/att.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE"

Dato 13 mauh 1978

1' CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSINA

ACTION

MASHED FOR SHOCKING

NO INDEXING REQUINCO-

ONLY QUALIFIED

NEADUUARTERS DESK

CAN IOGE INDEXING

ARSTRACT

MICROFILI

ALCIM.

PLISHED

(Continued) •

OCT 20 1964

DATE DISPATCHED

DATE TYFEO

16 Oct 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HEADQUARTERS FILE MUSIDER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

САДІВІРАС : : 1ГР

DIGRATCH SYMBOL AND NUMDER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

3.

Givon the source of the above report, we

vlew it with

some reserve.

In this connection, we noted the 19 September

issue of L'UNITA, which reflected

an article on KING's private

audlence with Pope Paul held the preceding day. According to

L'UNITA, Immediately after the audienco, in St. Peter's Square,

KING stated that "Popc Paul

was most clear on

the fact that both

he, personally, and the Catholic Church support the cause of

civil rights".

The article also states that in a press confer

once hold at Flumicino Airport aller the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make a publle statement on raclad seg.

regation", We have no other information at this time.

Attached is a copy of the report which we have passed

to the

representative.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

VIA COURIER TOUCH

DISPATCH

F'ROCESSING

THO

POSED

ACTION:

10

WAFMED FCR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

MEAT-QUAFILMS DESK

CAN JUDGE INSEXING

THOM

RESTRACT

MICROFILA

TUBJECT

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING with Italian Leftist

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

"Personalities

For Your Information:

1.. Following is a translation of a roport on the subject:

"The Mission of Luther KING with the Italian Left", dated

28 September 1964,

received the report on 1 October 1964 j

"Luther KING, noted Protestant negro Pastor and "leader'

of the anti-racist movement in the United states, met with

various londors of the Italian Comnunist Party (PCI) and of

the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18-September in Rome.

In particular, KING confered with PCI Senators Velio SPANO

and Ugo BARTESAGHI, with PSI Duputy Lucio LUzLiTO, and with

Sonator Paolo VITTORELLI

It the rtalian Socialist Party0f

Proletarian Unity. KING discussed with the

e above-named

politicians the program of demonstrations against segrega-

tion in the United States, which are to be organized in

Italy during the months imnediately ahead."

2 .

ACLUA

(Continued)

Attachment:

h/ M

Copy of a report

Distribution:

OCT 20 1964

DATE DISPATCHED

too arr

I CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

DATE TYPED

16 Oct

64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Pro

APPROVED FOR EFSEASE

HEADQUARTERS PILE NUE.

Date

(38)

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CIA GIGATION

DILABLE

HYMIL AND NUMILA

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

•3.

we noted the 19 September

issue of L'UNITA, which reflected an article on KING's private

audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day: According to

L'UNITA, immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

KING stated that "Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both

he, personally, and the Catholic Church support the cause of

civil rights".

notate Funicino

The article also states that in a press confer

once held at Fiumicino Airport after the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make

a public statement on racial seg-

regation". We have no other information at this time.

4. Attached is a copy of the reporti

---

## Page 5

13-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICAI: N

PRO

POSED

TO

Chief, WE Attn:

Clifef, WE/4

XX

INFO.

FROM

VIA COURIER FOUCII

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXINC REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

PLISMED

Chief of Station,

SUBJECT

KEYWAY

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING with Italian Leftist

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Personaltties

For Your Information.

Following is a translation of a report on the subject:

"The Mission of Luther KING with the Italian Left", dated

28 September 1964 and attributed to DEPLENARY/7, from |

from information coming into the editorial offices

Of L'UNITA.

The Station received the report on 1. October 1964•p5lUt

"Luther KING, noted Protestant negro Pastor and 'leader"

of the anti-racist movement in the United States, met with

various leaders of the Itallan Communist Party- (PCI) and of

the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18-September in Rome.

In particular, KING conferred with PCI Senators Velio SPANO

and Ugo BARTESAGHI, with Psy Deputy Lucio LUZZATO, and with

Senator Paolo VErToszuls or the Italian octallet Party or

Proletarian Unity.

KING discussed with

e above-named

PSI

politicians the program of demonstrations against segrega-

tion in the United States, which are to be organized in

Italy during the months immediately ahead."

2. The same report was also received from DEDICATOR/4 who

has access to the

and thus it is not

considered as confirming the DEPLENARY/7 information.

(Continued)

Attachment: h/w.

Copy of a report passed to local ODENVY rep.

Distribution:

'I-C/WE, w/att.

CONFIDENTIAL

Downgraded to -

80/822

by authority 0'8 7es 1978

date

FOLL TEXT COPY - NO NOT RELEASE

DATE TYPED

OCT 20 1964

DATE DISPATCHED

CLASUAICATIIN REVIEW

CONUTED ON 28 70k1971..

CROSS

94O MET CL A8.001829

trepud fong enlomalle

Can Trong 2nd

Ge Proclilmalen

16 Oct 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 06733

38

HEADOUARTERS FILE NUMBER

106-2-y

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SONEDENTIAL

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 06733

3.:

Given the source of the above report, we view it with

some reserve.

In this connection, we noted the 19 September

issue of L'UNITA, which reflected an article on KING's private

audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day.

According to

L'UNITA, Immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

KING stated that "Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both

he, personally; and the Catholic Church support the cause of

civil rights".

The article also states that in a press conter-

ence held at Flumicino Airport after the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make a public statement on racial seg

stay maroon

regation". We.

have no other information at this time.

4.

Attached is a copy of the report which we have passed

to the local

ODENVY representative.

bril

RANDOLPH A. MEDEORD

---

## Page 7

13-00000

16060 16-11

28 SET. 1964

OGGETTO: La missione di Luther king presso le sinistre italiane

VALUTAZIONE: Ottima

FONTE: Attendibile/üu

R: 10t61

Luther King, noto pastore protestante negro, e "lea der"

del movimento antirazzista degli Stati Uniti, si è incontrato il 18

settenbre u.s. a Roma con diversi esponenti del P.C.I. e del P.SI.

In modo particolare il King ha conferito con il Sen. Ve=

Lio spano, della vice presidenza della Commissione Centrale di Con

trollo del P.C.I., con l'On. Ugo Bartesaghi (P.C.I.), con l'On. Lu

cio M. Luzzatto del P.S.I.U.P. e con il Sen. Paolo Vittorelli del

"P.S.I."

Il pastore King ha discusso con i predetti unnini politi

ci il programma di manifestazioni contro il segregazionismo negli

Stati Uniti, che si dovrebbero organizzare nei prossimi mesi in I-

talia.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Led 15/10/64.2001

Luther King,noto pastore protestante negro, e leader del movimente

antirazzista degli Stati Uniti,si è Incontrato 11' 18 settemare u.s.

a Roma con diversi esponenti del PCi e del Psf.In modo particolare

egli ha conférito coll'on Vello Spano del PCI, coll'on Ugo Bartesa

ghi (PCI) ¡coll'on Lucio: uzzatto del PSIUP e col senatore Paolo Vit=

torelli del PSI. Il Pastore King ha discusso con loro le manifesta=.

z1on1 contro 1l: segregazionismo negli Stati Unitliche si dovrebbero

organizzare nel prossimi mesi in Italia.

---

