# 104-10142-10402

## Page 1

104-10142-10402

ITERTAL USE ONLY

Addendum to Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Tuesday - 27. December 1977

HS CA

Page 3

Caro

nica

10. (sternal Use Outy - CM) LIAISON I advised Terry Lytle,

Chairman Edward M. Kennedy's (D., Mass.) Senate Judiciary Subcommittee

on Antitrust and Monopoly staff, that we would not be able to declassify

an item on Japanese government relations with Japanese big business,

which the news media has mentioned. Lytle understood the problem,

though he lamented it and thought it might be a good idea to get a clearance

for himself.

11. Maternal Use Only CM) LIAISON I left word for Jim

Humphreys, of the staff of Senator Donald Riegle (D., Mich.), to call

The subject is an earlier query from Humphreys about declassification

programs going on in the Agency now.

12. (Unclassified - MG) LIAISON Sent via courier to Senator

Henry M. Jackson (D., Wash.) a note from the Director which forwarded

a copy of the Director's statement on the personnel reductions in the DDO.

13. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Mickey

Goldsmith, House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, who

indicated he was scheduled to attend a briefing at 9:30 a.m. Wednesday, 28

December, in the C&R Conference Room on the structure of CIA.

Mr. Goldsmith suggested the briefing be postponed until Thursday,

5 January, at the same time. I told him I would get back to him with

confirmation, which I did.

Gionge Cary

GEORGE L. CAR

Legislative Counsel

CC:

O/DDCI

Mr.

Ex. Sec.

DDA DDS&T

MI. Lapham

Mr. Hetu

SA/DO/O IC Staff

Compt NFAC

but mitry

19923

• ..

---

