# 104-10174-10069

## Page 1

104-10174-10069

FILE TOTLE/NUNGER/VOLUNG:

LOPEZ, HENRY PA

201-253203

VOL, 1u

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

x5422

DATE

RETURNED

18 T0y25

REVIENED BY (PRINT NANE)

Ligez

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIA!

3.07

NO DOCUNENTS NAY BE COPIED OR RENOTED FROM THIS FILE

VEre

07

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

032

DAiE / 17 JU: 61

* DIRECTOR

ROUTING

JUL 18 0420z 61

ACTIONA BELL 1O (TEMPO COPY CLOTTED FOR BELLYAT: 0200,

18

aULI

J

ROM

NFO

ARRESTE

PRIORITY

IN 40041

PRITY DIR

CITE

HEY DIA 0070s COUT 76122005

DO VOT HAVE REF• ASSUME THIS IS IF SO CONCUR.

ZO THE EXILE MOVEMENT IS LIVING WILY IN MOTEL COMMERCIAL.

SUBJ MAY WISH MINGLE WITT THIS TYPE LOCATION CLOSE TO SPORADIC

POLITICAL ACTIVITY IN COLON PARKA

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMENISE DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO DYVOUR 4 CABLES.

WAHOS STATED IT WOULD LIKE EDWARD G.

• TICHBOR TO RETURN

SOONEST TO STUDY, SITUATION IN DEPTH.

201-0253203

pORN 1389

4-29

S26.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

201-253203

Copy No

---

## Page 3

•TE

TION &

FO

376

25 11 61

DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSEC

SECRET

RE Flina (check oer):

o di Retard Value. Desiroy.

M8 di Lula copy as lodicated

BELL 10*

Franch rory fled as undiened

As Intane sehick one)

CCG 2, CA Z, CA/PRO, Wi 5, S/C Zome B Legen

'are related!

ROUTING

JU: 25 10342 61

ROUTINE

IN 43460

DIR. INFO

CITE

8499

RE DIR 02142 (out 78356)

TICHBORN AVAILABLE MAKE RE? TRIP DEPARTING

3e JULY.

SINCE TICKBORN HAS COVER BUSINESS CLIENTS NYC, WILL MAKE CIRCUITOUS

ROUTE TO HOS VIA NYC INSTEAD LOS ANGELES. WILL LAY OVER NYC 30

JULY AT STATLER HOTEL, ARRIVE WASH MORNING 31 JULY AND CONTACT HOS

THAT TIME®

- END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "ACTION UNIT DETEPNINED AS THOUCH INDICATOR OrVOUR 4 CASLES.

CORN 1389 "ENE

-SEMET

201-253203:

---

## Page 4

: 598

:189 JUL 61

DIRECTOR

HER CLASSITED MESSAGE

SEUMEN

PILENO DE

17:34

ROUTING

FROM

ACTION a

INFO

AB Fling (check noe):

So CS Ricard Baluo. Destroy.

BELL 10 (TOUPS COPY SLOTTEN FOR, BELL'AF 2300-F§ JUL)

BE Indrana (eiseck ane):

DOP, COP, ÁDOP/S; CA 2, CAYPRO, CAPREO HIS, D:

S/C 2

JUL 20 0248z 61

PRIORITY

IN 41148

PRITY DIR

CITE

1.025

REF

DYVOUR

1÷

STATION AGRESS TOURIST COVER NOT SUFFICIENT PERMIT EXTENDED

STAY DOM REP FOR - POLITICAL STUDY IN DEPTH.

ESSENTIAL TICKEORN HAVE

ADEQUATE BACKSTOPPED COVS? TO JUSTIFY HIS-TALK WITH-VARIOUS-POLITICAL

TYPES BOTH IN, COVT AND IN OPPOSITION.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMEN PRE, LIBELE ATTENTS MINE, COVER APRANCEHENS FOR DN5-3203

75.

FOTH

1389.

Jar ParTI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

yt..

;338

Copy No.

• тy cal

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFIED IMESSAGE

DATE

032

77 JUL 61

DIRECTOR

ROUTING :

FROM

ACTON!

BELL

(TEMPO COPY. SLOTTED FOR BELL AT ORUO, 10 JUL).

INFO

CA 2, -CA/PR6, WH 5, S/G.28

JUL 18 0420Z 61

• PRIORITY:

IN 40041

PRITY DIR

CITE

1005:

REF DIR 00793 (OT 76177) 97

1o.

DO VOT HAVE REE • ASSUME THIS ISL

_ IF SO CONCURS

2.

THE EXILE MOVEMENT IS LIVING INLY IN HOTEL COMMERCIAL®

SUBJ MAY WISH MINGLE WITH THIS TYP:.. LOCATION CLOSE TO SPORADIC

POLITICAL ACTIVITY IN COLOS DATE

END OF MESSAGE

*C/S-COMMENTSE

*DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO DYVOUR 4= CABLES:

#HOS STATED IT WOULD LIKE COWARD GO TICHBORN TO RETURN-

SOONEST TO STUDY SITUATION IN DEPT.

201. 21163%

• $55903

727909 46-9559

S063

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-253203

Copy No

---

## Page 6

056

DATE, 317 JUi 61

•DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ali 20 34

ROUTING

6

FROM

ACTON BELL: 10 (TEMPO COPY' SLOTTED FOR BELL AT 0343, 18 JUL)

INFO

® COP,

ADOP/A, CCG Z, CA 2, CA/PRE

$IC 2*

JUL 18 0553768°

PRIORITY

IN: 40077

BE TEN

FRIT)

DIR CITE

8435

• 1a

DUE PREVIOUS BUSINESS/TRAVEL COMITMENTS, TICHBORN UNABLE

MAKE REF TRIP UNTIL LAST WEEK JULY.

T WILLING GO

THAT TIME

BUT FEELS TOURIST COVER TOO LIGHT FOR EXTENDED TRUJ VISIT TO OBTAIN:

SITREP IN DEPTH AS REQUESTED, PARTICULARLY IN VIEW SMALLNESS AND TIGHT

SECURITY OF TARGET-CITY*

(IN 26303)

2. FYI PER_

_8235,

LIBELER STIL ATTEMPTING MAKE COVER

ARRANGEMENTSSFOR

TLESPAPERS REFUSED GRANT HIM

COVER DOCUMENTATION AS SPECIAL REPORTER, SUTLIT NOW POSSIBLE HE

ABLE ARRANGE COVER BACKSTOPPING AND INTERVIEWS/ENTREES WITH TOP.

OFFICIALS USING HIS PAST BACKGROUND AS

INDEFENDENT

WRITER AND BOOK AUTHOR OF LA POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AND PERSONALITIES.

L. EXPECTS FINAL COVER AND TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITHIN NEXT SEVEN DAYS.

STA ATTEMPTING FINALIZE LATRAT

RASSIGMENT PER

IN VIEW T'S COVER LIMITATIONS PER PARA & ABOVE, ADVISE SOONEST

HQS VIEWS RE DESIRABILITY T MAXE TRIP.

REQUESTS HOS REQUIRE-

MENTS IND

, CATED REF FOR POSSIBLE USE TICHBORN, LIBELER, AND LITEA-1

TRAVEL TO

(END OF MESSAGE)

C/S COMENT: "DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO DYVOUR À CABLES.

[N5" 1399

201-25-32031

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CITICE IS PROHIBITED.

•.. . Copy No.

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

SPEED LETTER

10

ATTN:

K/ IE/S

REPLY REQUESTEO

DATE

TES

LETTER HOL

-20:

FROM:

NSO.OC, 2 B 26. 1es

Fee 26.825

R6T4'

SUBJECT:

Lores, Eery P.

à review of OSC/OC records indicates Subicot las an Operational Approsa which is five gaurs ois

er elect. Uplating Lu. On is sister riguired il lin time ll uncueng is regulai OSC, 00 mo bad do

cowing:

Tipeated PRQ In new informarian freing changes in address, employzent. Faintly states,

ele (Thute is normally no uced iu rebigit s complate pus FAQ 1 forza)

in üpdated tranes logether with current operationni use ind area a rise.

1. PLEASE CHECK XPLORNATE SQUARE BELOW AND RETURN TO COG/OCA

-wof resula

= The exists Or sill cordays a

et unt updating

is completed and your office notifi.

REPLY

LO Active case: agent is curently being utilized. lf case requites updating Dusk will foevard

update tracs. and PRO I to CSG/OC.)

archite case: EAgent is no lunger acurde

retired.

3. 3

An Ofrice of Secanty apporal Las mpersoded the OA wich is thas no longer gated Cci

Т.А" дя:

01015Y

183!

RESPONDEN'S

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Docember 19, 1968

Los Angeles, California

Dear Exlend,

Merry Christmas!

I regret that le has caken this 1or 968.

matter of your letter of September 22,

late then never,

I guess.

Alchough your ectorts inter

behalf with Hank were not succeaslul, we do appreciate

the fact that you and your wife went out of your way to

tTy to help us.

--I-referred thematter. of. your late

moving bill to

the appropriate individual.

Unfortunately,

this bill"

was received too late,

all you: accounts

He has asked me to extend his regreca

chi's matter.

Please accept.my best wishes sor a Joyous

Christmna

and the hope

that*

1959111 Indeed-be a good year for

you and yours.

W7cn 42

Sincerely,

Enclosure:

206041225.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

theas

:....

ceapoar oh

•"T/

«deaaagoae éerisuomaso de geengedioncet mo eseio?

---

## Page 10

CELY

B

CON: SITIAL

AETRING AND RECORD

STEST

SCALANOT CORTE

-10.1 3-3

Kat sioui

Sosti

Poi iCon antina nasase

i cava

1= 50010n

Jean fra

Cobre

Limitas

SECRET

officess

SO INNONO

200 Fa "ING.

# corten tat con

05-50

полосний 5/976.

2-3 1162 tettere an

ati memo Live Tielor

22 NOv tra

in meco.

D3/C

TASTE

SEGGET

CONFIDERTIAL

INTESNAL

USE CALY

20: 25336.3

1 UNGESSIFIED

-arg

Fu".

---

## Page 11

8,.005

DOSS, PRaSONCE

15 M0SSE 1968

rolione tron2a los. 1968

" TCig

; Giigri Cares Sitir

: Nneerdiart loruts Ascorcts derlten

SCRa : Dsilies co suinl dononiaoge ersalel ai coredoaya gheca

•uaco, EdHart Go FICHROP, tiica cas oa duls vaca dns nuteg.

FEIRuS : 12015, c40lus Lntrizilin 2, Ger 53 02%

Bekes gieo peronco so ne con hiy tno cndc ounda ras

tlieyy copral Sucoocarzorchita fros sacem

h T3 à 081000815

thế ta qưối o com

esreor on io cat vescren

SxESHOR

Th ý l ố chải ta

tua at toe ties aco

o,o esterdo

Psny ensitceso a

ngitgragecraioo

TCн9оD, LDVAND CS

19645 7965 3 1966323

30:.

.5t.13

Cseu: In

Catus 2o me

Pollsets eouirasinito

tist

cacgsa

on dihtg bu, bo 2uooi tal aiciestans eut ésctiv de cguoyar:

Ortarwice, 1t vi1l to escessmry so rohoro tha varátato in die Dis co a noc scclerai

oitezsible Cpia=r. Doro seprria nra jari sueiea as elenté aittaiii di dli iireis.

ure be reported vith:

Hicaso Iraicato ty sugains lia the ppprogrlate egeco scriter Suijet'a sciuings

lôt cen es thạ cas loger

312

rcro

(B) Ary do the ensloyes

Sicuano

(o)

An ostensisio qu oresetal enteger

Siroct:2a

Centead Cores Stose

25tenr

le esblosss 1a 4o co notectra,edit cpscecice dan intos mi2a also Spaxceto

Ca toceral wno of coctzesa settru in turvung Kasiaat oud Tare leen eu cot

1D, nod Cognral Soer Stupe vu fusich cua ouiu tho nua troy ti ourers or da

nppronetate catessible cinlages.

en to

aSCiC Ia IC

Mausy

ntoero chisnal crolul

159968

eeto:

ach 3

Contrcet Agenta reccrudo/

@ =16 A

---

## Page 12

22 Jetober 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR:

THROUGH:

SUBjECT

OF/eSTL/CAAS

DU/Petsonnel:

Cont

Agent, Edward G. TICHBORN CP CaSte Lo

by hto cov

erY

1$17,000 Lu calendar

year: 1967 and Sl

333:28 for the pertod L Januare

31 August 1960.

was also upon tercination pold

chrough a secönd Do cover company a one-time Lure

The latter payment

was wade on

terminat ton

date

TICHBORN'& eifective

was 3l August 1968.

CC:

DO/ Personnel

SO NET

201-353203

---

## Page 13

UNGLASSIGIED:

SUBJECT: (Opriarin)

FRO

USE TAY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

DO CONFID: JAL

SECRET

• EITRESIOA

E/ IB

4B260*7

1O: (Officer dragnetion, room

building)

no

DAT!

- 14 October 1968

DATH

1564

NO LARR

3.

C/E/IB

E/00/Co

DO/CO/C

"210C Key Bi

1509.

• FORAR

610 HOUsE SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

01-253203

C UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 14

WH

ins brake

SECRET

14 October 1968

MEMORA DUN FOR:

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCS:

DO/CO/C

Howard I, FAZZARS

Your Hemorandun dated. 26 September 1968;

1.0

in tno reference you stated that do @lil send FAZZARS:

aster le chock for his expenses incurred in tits efforts to.

persuade, CHORNs wifelto agrou to an assignment in: Spain.

You atso forvarded a b124 nich FAZZARs sent for addi (opal

astroight expenses tron Madrid for which he has not been

reimburse

2.

sUr does not wish to retaburse FAZZARS for this

claim.

When

he resigned from

the Agency he submitted his

final accounting

and signed a Quit Claim for all expenses.

In'his. note to you, a copy of which you forwarded with rof

erence, he asked that you forward his bill "to the Spanish

Section for reimbursement If not too late...

We would

appreciate it 1f you could send paruns &

note when you for

ward his sterile check and state that we aro sorry but this

final accounting has been completed, that the books, have

beon cienred, and that it is indeed too late to authorize

additional funda.:

E/IBE

---

## Page 15

s File Futin

220/

SLEE E MENTORN

October 21, 1968

MEMORANDUM

To:

ПРІ:

CCt

• *-

From:

RHO"N'

Subjects Advancea

Attached are summaries of advances re-

ceived by you fron

or the

major portion of 1967 and all of 1900 and of the

accountings submitted by you for there advances.

The net result is as followed

Net balance: due ICA?

Net balance duc iDL:

Not halance due Devdo

Total due fron HPL

$

179.93

( 12:00).

33:05

$ 202.38

I am also returning the varlour xerox

coptes

ot accountings belonging to you.

Unfortunately, although you have given:

us a sumnary of the accountings fos the Jaruary

and hebruary 1968 TCA advances of $500. cach.

still sind no record of the detath of thone as-

countings

In our files.

Please review the attached and discuss:

with myselt or

Tat your convoniences

....?

1235

•

201-253203

---

## Page 16

WNNRY P. Lori?

rotal

Trip Expcnse

naaitional

Payncnt

Advances

500.00

2,200.00

peear,ї.

500.00}

$

509.75

$9.75

16-

(

39.4$)

458.83)

036601

80.60)

30.80)

99.88)

435.84)

-0-

500.00

39:45

458.83

53.60

80.60

31.80

99.88

$2, 273.93

$9.75

447.93)

75.00-

600,00

t: 452:92)

447.93

452-92

BALÄNCÉ DUE ICAP

945220

$

179.93

94:22

$2,268,98

$9.75

---

## Page 17

14-000n

HENRY P. LOPEZ

CAIL OF DALANCE DUE TEAR

: Remainder of October 16, 1967 Advance

14, 1968 Advance

Remainder of June 25, 1968 Advance

52:07

75.00

52.86

$179.93

---

## Page 18

HENRY P. LOPEZ

advances

$500.00

500.00

250.00

( 250.00)

50.00

44.38)

5.621

BAWINCE DUE HIPL

( 474.00)

( 537.00)

($ 11,00)

DETNIL OF BALANCE DUE HPL

Renaining Balanco of January 9, 1968 Advanco

Excess on February 1968 Caracas Trip Accounting

over Advance

Total

Trip Expense

Additional

Payment

308:18

$124.08

44.38.

474.00

537.00

$1, 363.56

$124.08

$26.00

( 37.00)

(§11,00)

---

## Page 19

HENRY. P. LOPEZ:

October 16, 1967 - Advanco

December 31. 1957

$250.00

BALANCE DUE DEVCO

( 216.55)

$ 33.45

---

## Page 20

SENDET

19 September 1968

MEMORANDUM. FOR: RECORD

SUBJECT

Project WUBRINY - Termination Settlement

with Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

The undersigned on 12 September 1968 went to

New York to effect a termination settlement with Edward C

TICHSORN (P). A hotel room at the Shoreham Hotel

55th Streets

•33. West

was obtained for a meeting place.

There were

two principal aspects to the settlement:

secure TICHBORN's acceptance of an amende

an exable content providio and rete sing then

U.S. Government from any furcher clatm and,

insure that TICHBORN had, as. of 31 August 1968,

administratively severed his relationship with WUSALINE,

particularly. that his

accountings for expenses in

curred in 1968 were submitted, recorded by WUSALINE,

and certified correct and proper by both TICHBORN

and WUBRINY/lI.

The first part of the settlement went smoochly.

TICHBORN on 12 September 1968 readily accepted the amend.

basic contract..

mene to hiscopy of his 1966 income tax return which the

He brought along for the Covert

Tax Unit a

He was given his one time lump sum

In two checks ($2833.62 and $477.38) drawn on a DO pro-

prietary company (WUTACTIC) which wits issue TICHBORN

a Form 1099 for income tax filing:

He readily endorsed

ang gave to the undersigned the check for $477.38 in

settlement of the amount he. owed WH Diviston from his

Lour In Mexico City :

3.

Through no fault of TIChURN, the administrative

severance from WUSALINE did not go as smoothly.

In spite.

of severat requests by bad FUCHBORN and the undersigned,

SECRET

201-233203

---

## Page 21

SECRET

WUBRINY/ll did not have ready a list of expenses incurted

by TICHSORN in 1963 for checking by the undersicned and.

certification by TICHBORN and WÜBRINY/1l.

WUSRISX/11

telephoned,

to say that his accountant was unable. ta

locate some of TICHBORN's accountings.

The undersigned

then requested WUBRINY/11 to join him

and TICHBORN.

The

undersigned had a partial list of TICHBORN's expenses

previously submitted by WUBRINY/ll.

The undersigned

enjoined TICHBORN and WUBRINY/ll to preparé a couplete

list of expenses for 1968.

TICHBORN was asked to record

the purpose of each expense.

The undersigned emphasized

In WUbRiNY/lI's presence that TICHBORN should ensure that

no expenses chargeable to wORl/l's private firm were

charged

to WUSALINE.

Both TICHBORN and WUBRINY/ 1'1 were

reminded that all expenses on the Venezuela project were

chargeable to WUBRINY/1's private firm as well as one-hale

of the expenses on the Mexican Border project. TICHBORN

said that he would get all of the accountings fron WUBRINY/12's

expense an as sed to end oppong porte

comperoller to determine which, if-any, account ings were

expenses:

September. 13, 1968 on this matter:

4.

On the morning of September 13, 1968, TICHBORN

telephoned the undersigned to say that he was

able from

He also sald

his records to supply the missing dats from the comptroller

that notations

on the records obtained

showed that he had, in fact, submitted the accourtings that

were missing.

TICHBORN concluded from this that WUBRINY/1'$

private

fini had lost the missing accountings.

TICHBORN

also said that a few of the charges on the partial list

of expenses which the undersigned bad glven him to review

should have been charged to WUBRINY/1'9 Private firm.

The

under signed then requested TICHBORN and WUBRINY/M to weet

with him at noon so that the undersigned could review the

accountings

and obtain certifications from TICHBORN and

WUBRINY/11=

Both agreed to the meeting

Subsequently,

TICHBORN telephoned to say that he and WUBRINY/ IF were

alT set to come tö the undersigneds hotel when the

unwitting comptrollet took all the finenstal statements

to review them again:

TICHBORN and WUBRINY/ll were in

no position to retain the statements and thus could: not.

meet as scheduled.

Boch TICHBORN and WUBRIN/11 agreed

that the accountings were now in' order. The undersigned

again intored TICHBORN and WUBRINY/Ll by phone that each

must certity that the expenses were proper charges to

WUSALINE WUBRINY/11 was instructed to mall the lise

to the undersigned as soon ás possible.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 22

FIRERET

1759-1-81

Certain other administrative natters were

taken win wich TICHRORN and WUBRINY/ll during the after-

noon of i2 September: 1968.

The undersigned secured

agreement from TICHBORN and WUBRINY/ll that TICHBORN'S

services on WUBRINY/l's Venezuela projece were as great

as any other officer who worked on it and that, cherefore,

WUSALINE should receive for TICHBORN's services on als

project compensation at least equal to that given any

officer in WUBRINY/L's private timm.

The undersigned

obtalned fron TICHBORN che two credit cards American

Express and

Pan American air travel cards issued to

him under WUSALINE sponsorship.

The undersigned asked

TICHBORN if he had charged any expenses under these cards:

since: 31 August 1968€

TICHBORN said that he had enter.

tathed a movie producer who visited him as an outgrouch

of his trip to California to develop a movie adjunctio

his dover.

For this teason,

TICHBORN opined that

the

Agency should pay for the expense The undersigned salas

that TICHBORN was not authorized to incur any further

expenses after 31 August 1968. TICHBORN then readily

agreed to pay the expense..

6.

There is a possibility chat WH Division may

want TICHBORN to take an operational TDY in Chile..

TICHBORN was alerted to this possibility. He expressed

Interest in the assignment, but pointed out chat he now

has to get. a job and that,

will depend upon his job situation.

consequently, his avallability

7 TICHBORN was extremely friendly and cooperative

and the settlement was amicably effected.

DO/CO/C

Orig

- TICHBORN Sile

- C/DOCO

, DC/DO; C/DO

- WUBRINY chrono

SECRET

---

## Page 23

Ticktain 231

9 Septeabor 1968

MELORLNDUS FOR? The Recurd

SUBJECT

Project HURACTIC - Funding

1.

On Honday alternoon, the undersigned was requested

7.D0/60.

to provide a mechan sator furcing

53.311-00 to an Agent he was terminating (Edug CaTchson

(P)..

Is travelins to Net York O0

Thuns de

12 Septesber 1968 and would lite to pay the term

Coa: bonus

ito micson at that. time.

Prior to our discussion,

had arranged for tbe funds. to be paid by sterile check. Novove

Do/Bre suggested that he consult doCKeT

funding mechants in order to insure proper tas rapore

TICHBORN

explained to the undersigned that TIchsoR"

had been erployed, uncil his teruination, by one of the Project

WUBRIN entities.

Apparontls, there is an unwitting: Coeptroller

In tho lusriny entity and there was no reasonable story, that

couid bo offered"

to explain the $3,312.00 teraination bagus:

Thorefore, it

is necessary to use anothor entity that cha prot

vido a Form 1099 for ta, purposes.

3-

Stace NUGAP has sufficient funds in Its biot

account to manage a $3, 311:00 disbursenent,

it was decaded

to utilize

this

company

Twas advised to stop the

sterfle check process and to have the $3, 311.00 voucher

approved and forwarded to Do/d for payment instructlors.

At

that the

the undersigned will prepare a Request for advice.

of, Funds (MUTACTIC) 1n the acount of $689.00 and. Paymens

Instructions for $4, 000.00 (S3,311,00 plus $689,0025

This.

procedure is being followed in order that WUGAlp caa shorte

Slight proftt as

well as

to prevent the exact same anount of

monoy being received and disbürsed.:

SECRET

788253203

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

Pia 81

La sundo coody fores advised on thereby mon me arave

Thursday mornin for als

pick up.

GOOD3EE was also providud TICIOR's address and

social Security sundoi for the preparation of the fors 1099

po/es

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

Mise ades

SERGES

ALICO!

pre 30011

tente una no

roma da o

bidetting

ini riona da ration me

DESFASTILED

---

## Page 27

= spirato cors Altchern: Da:

8003-7409

reiter 190i

SaCT

---

## Page 28

CO UNCLASSIFICO

HE SONEY

• SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET:

1.

FROM:

EITENSIO

AC/DO

Rm. 3-C-19 Hqg.

TO: Officer designation, room membai,, and

Daily

DATE

Mame

OVER'S

INITIALS

PCHWARDED

1C/D0/COG

Ri. 210 - Key Bidg:

-FYI

18 AUG 1963

283334

477:38

3310.72

Neckton 301l

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

fu."

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

Bang

201-253203

DO • UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 29

12 August 1968

MIMORANDUM DORI Culel, Contract Personnel Divialo

THROUGH

hooterst lot Nic-Sult Percome

SUBJECT

Edward G. TICHBÖRN (P) - Contract Agent

been sir do dys notice an provided to t

bet that him ec

raci

1968.

Subject mas Intally employed ln 1939 and was sransferred o

Do Division La July of 19t? from te WH Divialon. In the couree e

dẹ cursing the terminition of bla nerviess, anujact sinted that daring

bin tenure with the kb Diviaton, he had bees promieed certala bonsen

«an terminden of sin Agony cervlee, The Wh Diviatos hai schood

to a tarolnation paymont of $3,310.72 whieh roaresents to Coutt

alry cats eat 90 she 117.36 la cotton e

3; In addiiion li la requonted that the following sintement be incided

in the emandioect

You release and forever discharge to United States

Come and any sony, Deartment or lastrumentals:

Cron

ay and all clalmo, demando and liablides le aay form

A bute pover throughout the orla of to trou

Atti

¿ lo digned Notice of Termination in deplicase.

Cret, DO Sop

A tinê hmenti

an atated

66:1. 253203

Distribation:

Orig'# l - Addressee, I-Aast for Non-Stall Pers.•

, 1- DO/PERS

I- WH/BF. 3- DO/SG

DC/DO/SG: jm

I - DO/CO/Allen

---

## Page 30

sies to -/1B

(DODS)

on 18 July 68

MEMO TO & AG

FROM

RE TICHBORN

IN HE 3. Leetings with

I had severed long comer teren win a readin variou

espects of potential asslentent in

a) lone confes over two drinks after our joint

session Hednesdny arternoon:

5) chorter talk on plene ride to New Yorke

c) extended conversation on Thursdag evening.

when we had dinner with our respective

spouses - 6:30 PM tO 2:00 AM

Our many hours together (with and without our wives) produced

two principal conclustones

1. Reinforced my wife's objections to moving

to

also convincing me that it woule

be prejudiclal for my children.

2. Convanced ne that, even it there were no family

pbjections to moving,, It would be unice to

establish permanent residence in

because

of the security risks involved therein. Both

vr and I feel that severel in-and-out trips

would accomplish our parposes without rumine

the risk os appeasine implausible in that-

traditionally-suspicious country.

---

## Page 31

2

A.

Farily oblections to noving:

1. Bealth hazards - My wife's fears about hepatitis

and other diseases (originally aroused by

cesual reference to some) were manhat reinforced

by it and wife's pointed cautions about food and

water."

2v Nesat Ive

effect on oy children - When ay wire

explained

school difmeutties since moving

trom

The sailed three subjects test semester:

and is attending sunner school), both MT and wife

flatly said that it would be risky and perhaps.

permenent l-denarina to move him once again. Kre.

I. who 16& professional gutdance counselor for

children, fully agreed with the onla psychotogist.

who has advised us againat moving

out of the

United States at this tise?

Having fallen behind

In his reading skills while inl

1(.ee 1n

relation to u,sa standaras), hote now surrerine

certain paychological setbacks that are related.

to his scholastie airticoitten

Bo. Secursts risks of protected cover.

Even it there verono family obsections to ou

moving to

→ay conversations with vt have con-

vinced me that our present "cover arrangements" will

not.

no support perranent residence

---

## Page 32

As I had preslously suralsed, MT says that

1g

an inordinately suspicious country - that almost

everyone suspects all foreigners of some tles with

forelen banks.

He himself was frequently told to hle

face: that he

was a bank employee, and he told us that

at our two meetings last Tuesday and wednesday.

says that covernsent offictals and the kind of

weher-up buennean, tycoons vetre shooting for the

son our est) are almost patholoften in thest sues

plolons:

MT : "You're going to have to live like a rich

man to have access to those people, and

no rich man would nove to Spain with his

rently unless he had already estebilched

the kind of business activity that would

pay him. enoush to varrant such & nove.

Here prospecting for business opportunitles.

might draw such a man for short look-around

visito, but he would look pretty foolish

mortig his whole family just to pronpect."

Those sharp-nosed Spanish industrtallate

would smeal you out within a fev months.

perhaps a few weeks,

Mr agrees with all of us that the novle cover offers

the best and least-expensive chänce for peneträtion,

but here afain he erfues against establishing permanel.

---

## Page 33

residence:

"py father and brother (president of Assoclated

Diatributors

have been

In motion pletures all their llves, and I know

fron my peripheral exposure to the business

that no producer would establish permanent

residence unless he's notually filuing a ble

picture. Until he actually starts shootingo

the procueer faste in

and out of the country.

fushtne back to Hollywood of New York to work

on other pieture deale. Norio people are ex-

pected to be jet-setty, they dön't travel with

thelr poddamned familins; certainly not kids.

As a "bachelor" producer with a temporary suite

at the maton or fitz, where you could invite:

Mr. Tyooon to single with starlets and nodeln,

you could be quite plausible as a puy no e

st1l1 looking for the right picture deal to jell

(perhaps for a couple of venes). ....d

In view of our previous tractive relationship with our

Iberian assoclate (and

continued skepticion), I frankly

arree with Nt's reservations about establishing permanent

residence while in the prostecting stagest the over-all

prospects and untity of

coala

be compronised by an Irplausible cover at any stage.

---

## Page 34

• UNELASSIFIEO

Drust

CONFID" "TAL

18 SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SURRECT, (Oisonall

FROM:

FROM:

SD/3/OSD

ROOM G-E.73

10: Of designaties

evid

i.Cho

D005

EATENION

ĐA t

DaTI

*R'S

NAiS

PORAR

5-01

610 mos SI SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

20+ 255203

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 35

4-00000

Le, "i ton

SECRET

2 8 JUN 958

-MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief: DODS

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

LETTER ADDRESS

# 306. 312

1:

With reference to your verbal request os 14 June 1968

the tortowns action ved taken concerning facility

Post Office fox 432, Church Street Btation, New York City, New York

Cancelled

Added as co-addressee

Forico Cortez

Deleted as coaddressee

-in

2

Any Inquirtes concerning the above action should

the Spectal Pacilities Desk of

this Gifice,

Room GE 73, Headquarter extenston 6851.

Deputy Director of Security(Tos?

SECRET

Erstaded ergo:

---

## Page 36

Tichborn Greenhist

regenested # 189405

on 24/ June / 68.

201-253203

---

## Page 37

tro.

•ST SECRETARLAT DISSEMINATON

CLASSiC

MESSAGES

TOTAL COMES

S-_REL 3

in sies

(When' Filled In)

REPRODU-TiLT L TiTiS COPY PRONIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

BLOTTED

ACTION

EUR GI

1500 c0m

I-PEE TO PILE NO.

FILE HO REY. PO

INFO:

PILE

BRANCHO

орг

DESTROY 1] BNS.

SECRET 251314Z JUN 68 CITEL

DIRECTOR:

REP: DIRECIOR 09586

ACTION*

ESTIMATE IMPORT DUTY AT $1,500. IN ADDITION

THERE WILL BE Z2 1/2 PER CENT LUXURY TAX ASSESSED

ON VEHICLE BASED ON VALUE APPRAISED BY

CUSTOMS. SUGGEST PROJECT ESTIMATE OF $2,000.

TO COVER ALL IMPORT COSTS:

SECRET

Tickbows

SECRET

201253203

---

## Page 38

MELSACA FORE

POTM COPHN:

File Ticklion

22

odiG:

EFBETT!

EXY:

171875

1564

24 June 1968

CAME SACRITAMAT MISSEMMHATON

H7_

COMPs

EuR ba

BỌ COPT

CCS Z, CSPS, Day,

SECRET

24 22 4223w68

Г

10834

7

QUEELP

DIRECTOR 09712

B:

5263 (IN 36208)

SYMPATHIZE NITH FAZZARE DESIRE CONSUMMATE PERSONAL

PLANS OUTLINED REF B AND WE WILLING HE TDY AT HUS AT END OF TNO

WEEK VACATION WITH WIFE IN NEM YORK AREA. THIS WAY NO-BREAK PERSONAL

PLANS. NO NEED COVER SUDDEN BREAK WITH FRIENDS AND NO NEED EXTRA

EXPENSE LATER ROUND TRIP. WILL DETERMINE TICHBORN AVAILABILITY

-IS 16: 17 JULY.

-=?. DO NOT SEE HOW, FAZZARE'S FUTURE PLANS WITH NOFIRM

(ENTERTAINING VISITING

IN NOLADY AND PERIODIC VISITS LOCAL

WOPLAY CFFICE) REQUIRE INVOLVED FAMILY DISCUSSIONS OR ARRANGEMENTS

WITH EMPLOYER:

POINT REMAINS FAZZARE NOW FORMALLY TERMINATING

CONTRACT AND WE ANXIOUS END HIS DISAPPOINTINGLY SHORT TOUR WITH

MINIMUM EXPENSE:

3/CONTINUED/

SECRET

bina fel that is gulde

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

COPY NO

361-253203

---

## Page 39

1USg

AONANCICOM

ISSUED

_BLOTTED

ACTION

1 no coin

Eve 6

CLASSIPILOMESSAA

SECRET

SU:AL LOPIES

CROUP!

EBC ME

(When Filied by

REPROQUETION OF TMIS COPY PROMIBITED

¡CLASSICO TO MILE 10.

INFO:

PuR.

ccs2, eses/

0/0/

ite

o in allen tende

0P 2

SECRET 211885Z JUN 68 CITE

5263

22 Jw: 60t. 3620₴

DIRECTOR

QUEL PE

REF:.

DIRECTOR 09712

110.

FAZZARE HAD ORIGINALLY ÉXPECTED BRING FAMILY

WITH TENTATIVE IDEA RENEWING CONTRACT AI END OF YEAR. DUE

FAMILY COMPLICATIONS (BUSINESS AFFAIRS OF HIS AGED FATHER-IN-

LAW, HEALTH HIS AGED MOTHER AND AUNTS, HOWEVER, HIS WIFE FOUND

IT IMPOSSIBLE LEAVE HOME CITY.

HE HAS THEREFORE NOT SEEN WIFE

FOR A YEAR, FOR REASONS OF WOFIRM CONVENIENCE AND NOT HIS OWN.

HE HAS PROMISED WIFE THEY WILL HAVE UNBROKEN TWO WEEKS VACATION

NEW YORK FROM MOMENT HIS PLANE LANDS. SHE HÄS THEREFORE MADE

ENGAGEMENIS FOR BOTN WITH FAMILY FRIENDS IN NEW YORK AND

CONNECTICUT AND EXPECTS FAZZARE RETURN HOME WITH HER THEREAFTER.

2. MORE IMPORTANT, HIS COVER OFFERS NO PLAUSIBLE REASON

LE COULD GIVE THE FRIENDS WITH WHOM HIS WIFE HAS MADE ENGAGE-

MENTS, IF HE SHOULD SUDDENTLY BREAK FIRM PLANS AND GO TO

WASHINGTON FOR THREE DAYS.

FAZZARE CAN MAKE NO SOLID PLANS WITH VOFIRM UNTIL HER

HAS TALKED SERIOUSLY WITH WIFE AND TWO SONS AND CONSULTED MIS

SECRET

201-253263

---

## Page 40

CABLE SET

DANCE CUE,

#LOPPED

SECRET

(When Filled to)

#ÉPRODUCTION OF THIS CO

capsion To one no

a-MIE TO FILE tO.

PROHIBITED

BRANCH U

ACTION

no'com

FILE.

PAGE 2

S263 SECREI

EMPLOYER IN HOME CITY. UNTIL ME HAS OPPORTUNITY HOLD THESE

DISCUSSIONS HE WOULD THEREFORE BE UNABLE CONDUCT ANY PERMINGFUL

OPERATIONAL DISCUSSIONS AT HOS. THEREFORE ISSUES BOISED OSM-

110I2 COULD NOT BE RESOLVED UNTIL FAZZARE DISCUSSES FUTURE WITN

FAMILY AND EMPLOYER.

: 1-

7:

4: STATION CUNSIDERS FAZZARE USE OF MUCH IMPORIARCE 1N

COMING YEÄRS. TICHBORN VILL BE ABLE REPLACE HIM IN SOME AREAS.

AND PICK UP SOME OF HIS CONTACTS BUT FACT REMAINS FAZZARE: HAS

UNTQUE ACCESS CERTAIN TARGETS. STATION EXPECIS TICHOPE TO BECOME

VALUABLE COMPLEMENT TO FAZZARE OPERATION AND OPEN GROUND FAZZARES

CANNOT, BUT HE WILL NOT BE A SUBSTITUTE. THIS SHOULD BE BORN IN

MIND WHEN TICHBORN AND FAZZARE MEET.

5. ON REF PARA 3, STATION HAS NO COPY FAZZARE CONTRACT. IF

TERMINATION STATEMENT NEEDED IN SOME OTHER FORM THAN OFFICIAL

REPORT OF DECISION TO TERMINATE AS IN 23801 OF 30 APRIL 19680

PLEASE ADVISE AS TO FORM AND PHASING.

6.

REQUEST APPROVAL TRAVEL AS IN REF PARA I BUT REPLACING

TOY STOPOVER VASHENGTON VITH ROUND TRIP CALIFORMIA YASHISSTON ON

TDY IN AUGUST.

SECRET

BT.

U

SECRET

17

---

## Page 41

• 21 June 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: RECORD

SUBJECT

: Project WUBRINY - Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

1..

At the

request of Chlef, DO/CoG; the WOFIRM medical

staff arranged

for

TICHBORN to be examined by a specialist

in back disorders to check the nacure of XICHBORNNS back

TICHBORN had earller injured his back when a

Broth an whiCh ON had set lie due laundry. 200m 07

his apartment collapsed

TICHBORN

has,

of course, been undet the sare offa doctor In

New York:

A back brace and physteal therapy exercises:

have led: to considerable improvement However in view

of plans for TICHBORN'S PCS assignment

a check

by an independent specialist was deemed advisable.

2a TICHBORN'S appointment was with

TICHBOKN used the altas of Enrique Cortez with a

New York post-office address supplied by the Office of

Security, to wit:

He paid the bill of $38.50 upon leaving:

The receptionise

asked the name of TICHBORN's doctor and where the réport

should be sent.

of a doctor

to send the

The report will be sent to

ding of the

WOEM Medical Staff who will call C/DO/COGs)

3.

"At a luncheon meeting at Fort Myer alter

the

examination, TICHBORN informed Chlef, DO/SOG and

undersigned that

a cheer moe posted elean

rICHBORN's dectot in New York Chat TICHBORN does not hav

a ruptured disc.

reconnended physical therap

"M".

SECRET

241: 25-3203

---

## Page 42

SECRET'

exercises varying somewhat from those prescribed by

TICHBORNS Now Vort inutrI.

TICHYON sald that his

back pains him toward the end of the day.

Dr. Feffer

opined that this coraltion should be cleared up within

three months.

4.

TICHCORN appeared to be in excellent spirits

at the luncheon.

He was very enthusiastic. nhout movie

deals

as a substantlal part of his cover arrangements.

• He obvlously is at home in this fleld and belleves it

will give oxcellent access to operacion turgets

TICHBORN has contacts

In the U. S. movie Industry, one

of wham is a friend Interested in

making a movie

FICHBORN plans

to meet this friend and other contacts in

Los Angeles the first week of July.

the undersigned

TICHBORN will be reptacing

do so and also to stay loose later In July for conversa-

tion with the Deputy Chief of Station

The undersigned Informed TICHBORN that from the

cover point of view, it would be destrable for TICHBORN;

potential.

TICHBORN said that he has not recelved a reply

Froy the IRS to his request for a copy of his 1906 Income

tax return (requested by C/DO/Pers)•

TICHBORN said that

he 1s, therefore, writing another letter.

DO/C

CC*.

TICHBORN flle

WUBR INY/Ops.*

chrono

SCRET

---

## Page 43

E10S

An, 6689/1564

BAre: 19 June 1968

PEAT DIS BUMUNATICA

46-70--

• 10 mo

I to corr

basreor

HUTVER NA

• me me mina 201-253203

-1, 023

and Tune filed)

SECRET

настака

09586

Core bitin

19 23

NEED ASAP FOR TICIDORN PR

HE VUOLSTIMATE IMPORT DUTY INTO

FOR HIS POV WHICH 1965 FORD STATION VAGON:

END OF MESSAGE

AC/ETTE

ANIMLNNCATIS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTNER THAN THE ISSUING ÖFFICE IS PROMINTED,

COPY MO

201253203

---

## Page 44

SECRET

14 June 2968.

SUBJECT

190, 1 T

8 Enrico COme (A):

it his ov on sun it sad ton

the Indirital savolved la s covert ascet of tito

Divinion who will possibly noed the addresa to giro to na un-

cleared noddeal spectalist in the D.C. area wher Dubject under-

goes treatzent on 19. June 1968, Should be not have to provide

the address, you will be advised to taruinato further interest.

I be has to ave it, we vt went dally aerice through Augnet

1900 with air mil received fowarded to the underal nod

Cale?, Do/Becurity

Ce:

SECRET

301 553203

Encha led treas sitar

soctasutical lis

---

## Page 45

SECRET

10 June 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, EUR/

SUBJECT

:. Project WUBRINY - Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

Forwarded herewith is the revised proposal from

WUBRINY/1 to Edward G. TICHBORN (P) covering the latterte

assignment

It differs from the original in that

the journalistle Leature is dropped in favor of strictly

convercial endeavors.

- Added 15 the possibility of develop

ing a movle deal tor

TICHBORN had two deetings with QUSALI/L, both of

which went well from the cover polnt of view.

meeting involved TICHBORN and QUSALT/L, while TICHBORN

brought his wife for the second in which QUSALT. 1 was

TICHBORN säld that QUSALT/l is all

inactivity, _QUSALT/1

has an attitude of "I will belleve it when I see it."

a to death lat that qued withy her the cheap

I a movie deal and sald that

is by far the cheapest

place to make movies.

- commented that everyone should expect to get hepatitis

and

said that he had a severe case

TICHBORN's wife whose best friend

this comment shook

caught hepatitis

and whose children subseguently got it.

The undersigned speciftcally asked TICHBORN 1E

his wife's concern with hepatitis posed the possibiliy

of a refusal to accompany. him.

TICHBORN said that he

thought not, but that he was going to drop the matter

a week.

stressed to TICHBORN that

the Agency views his assignment as very important as

SECRET

• matte

and

201 253203

---

## Page 46

evidenced by the favorable terms offered him..

We have

done considerable staff work on his assignment and don't

have

another suitable candidate immediately available.

Should TICHBORN not be able to go

it would be

a severe blow.

TICHBORN said that he appreciates our

position and did not see ary reason to worry.

The under

signed said that we are preparing a contract for TICHBORN

and would like to make it for at least three years.

TICHBORN agreed,

saying that he too prefers a long-term

contract.

DO/C

Discributior:

1

TICHBORN fiza

chrono

SEGRET

---

## Page 47

ADVANCE COPY

aY

ACTION

sUED

D MISSIG

SECRET.

/Whion fired a

RE PODUCTION OF !

CLASBITY TO FILE NO

imit titio

023

ENRS

Ii.com

SE GHOT THIN JUN 6B CITE

DIRECTOR

Q UHELP

REF 8

3158

10d0s,27980

1012

BELIEVE TICHSORN IS LOGICAL CHOICE TO MEET AND:

DEVELOP SELECTED INUIVIDUALS NOW UNDER CUTIVATION BY

FAZZARE. BUTH TICHSORN AND FAZZARE ARE INTSRESTED 1N

PROBLEMS

2.

SUGGEST WE CONTRIVE METING. THIS SURIER OF

FAZZARE AND TICHAORN IN NEW YORK OR CALIFORMIA FOR!

PURPOSE CA) EXCHANGING IDEAS RE OPERATIONAL POSSIBILITIES

CAS ARRANGING HOW TICHBORN CAN PICK UP

SELECTED FAZZARE CONTACTS WITHOUT IMPEDINg FAZZARE*S

FUTURE USEFULNESS TO WOFIRM

ADVISE IF CAN BEGIN PLAN ZOVARD SUCH NECTING.

1298

ạ: "

SECRET

201-253.203

---

## Page 48

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

901

8/D.

TRON: CHIEF, C1/QA

TH O POO HAN BUNTHS SOME TAL PA DAMARIE NEC

CHICATO: BALOn

6 runo 1960. 0JP

201-253203

Duader,

LOFEL, Heary. P.

SEVERNA TON ASS

ASSOICATIS "POUESTIO

IRI DOMAT LON

AND DIVISION

Thin vili ackonedge receipt of your semonandu

(datod 3 June 1968) requesting anndment to subject'

al Flold and Head.

up to late,

It to aleo roguested that you bring bio dite up to

dato from 1965.

Tha.

211-253303

SECRET

---

## Page 49

SECRET

3 June 1068

MENORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

VIA:

SUBJECT:

C/DO/CO

Edward G. TICHBORN (P), 201-253203

Amendent of OA

Buropean Division, with the cooperation of Domestio

under deep cover on a pes bauto in lato mu

Since October 1966, TICHORN

Do Diviston, worktog sever

propriatary VOSALINE.

party July

TCHHORN

tO.

access

to priority targets fr

SpaIn wiich might

be

provided by

the BUSALINE

affiliato, WUSINE

The regults of this

trip indicated that such accenn did extot

and could be exploited by the assignment of a aunlifted officer

as the VUSALINE: representative in WUS^ INE

Thie neutro"

ment was offered to TICiBORN in the summer of 1967 but ho n

unable to accept It for personal reasong at that time:

TICHBORN 1a now available

for the a signment and ie hope to

place bin

by September 1968.

3.

TICHBORN's new abetiment vtll involve the following

operational duties:

To identily, cultivate, and acquire intelligonce

Iron those Iodttduals and groups within

who nom

play, and can be oxpected to play In the

pertod, " stentricant role la doterleto

domestle and foretge poltey.

b. To spot and aésess individunle within the

above moup for posstble recrultint by otbor Breton

assetos

SECRET

---

## Page 50

SECRET

It. 1s

not anticipated that TICHBORN himsold will

attript recruitments por

hle cover.

Contact 1th tbo

that he w1l1 be required to break

the ender ontact conditions at albion "111 be mala-

Upon his assignment

TICHBORN w1l1 fall

under the oportional and adatolstrativo control of Burope

Diviston.

Do Diviaton Miti provide cover support. de will

be supported under Project Quatoon.

"arequested that subjectle OA be amended-to-

403 above 1os1

AC/B/1B

Coordinated:

Ortg. & 1

Addressee

201-253203

1-E MemoChron

SECRET

---

## Page 51

UNCLASSIFIED"

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF NTIAL

D. SECRET

SURECT, Opinit

FROM

DO/C

11U-A Key Blog.

TO: (Ollie desigration voria mumber, onl

brittang)

ЕКТЕРЕЛОТ

3689

DATE

RECITYED

PORWARDED

но.

our 22 May 1968

order so a at a sim to dio to co ta

EUR

4 B 2607

670 evous

SECRET COnFIDENTIAL

USE ONLY

253203

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 52

22 Maj 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: RECORD

SUBJECT

: Project WUBRINY - Edward G. TICHBORN (P).

The understgned met with TICHBORN at 1630 houre

on 19 May 1968 at the undersigned's room in the Shoreham

Hotels

J3 West Soch Street, New York CIty: TICHBORN WOR

get suttering from an injured aise and either stood or

lay down on the bed durthg the course of the meeting.

• He

sald that he had beon fitted for a back harness which he-

on which he was sitting in the laundry room of his apart-

ment collapsed.

He said that he is meeting with a represen-

tative of the insurance company with which his apartment

owner is. lasured to

compensation.

He had prevlously

asked for and was mailed a list of benefits under hie Asco

hospitalization policy.

TICHBORN can sit down; but are

sitting, it is very painful for him to get up.

signed offered TICHBORN a fee of

Per agreement wich Chilez's25,ooo out of which

the under-

TICHBORN will have to pay his own hrosing and educational

expenses:,

Inasmuch ag the normas housing

allowance for

the offer to TICHBORN

that additional benefits outside his basic. tee would include:

for him and his family

Round ta transportation de return to retires

and return to New York,

b Cost of shipping and storage of household

effects,

SECTST

---

## Page 53

do Iranstiziation allowance of $50 per month,

"e angstonal expenses

ersatisited wich his baste fee,

commentin; inat

"better

He then added that miney

mean as

much to him as it did, because r., agent

Rs that TICHBORN'& book will bea good

BelifT and

arna lot of money.

TICHBORN opthed that " Caporary

lodging and transportation allowances arr

sow. The under

signed

ointed out that, chese allow es are applicabi

o staft employees nd chat. cher Wave been found adequate

3:

The underpigned noted that. TIcHBoRN.

by virtue

of his association wich WUSALINE and WUSALIFY and hia.

1967 CrtpL

18 in an excellent cover posicton

Cor) this assignment.

Heathas also had the ormortuntty

to meet the Agendy represchtat tve

Eith whom

he will be dealing.

The understgned se

- TICHBORNYa

copy of WUBRINY/l'a locter outlining Crook g-cover

The undersigned

that the sentor ofticct of

firm participating

with WUSALINE In WUSÄLINE|

in late 1966 had sug

to me develope one easiess he obtained.

overture was

followed y TICHBORN's exploratory

trip in June 1967.

Subsequently s

A WUSALIFY company

for which TIGhlehn is 3 legal consultant, followed

up on TICKsOkNg Grip sy sending a geologlst to assess

reveral abandoned: silver propertties.

In this way,

the

stuge sbould he well jet for TICHBORN as outlined in

the cover letter prepared by WUBRINY/L.

At 1800 houre, WUBRINY/1 and WUBRINY/11 Joined

the meeting to discuss cover arrangements.

The under-

Signed emphasized that the arrangement would not only:

there would.

have

phatic on thts point. He suggested that the cover

letter also include the posstbility of putting together

a movie deal.

TICHBORN

home in the movie fiela and finds te a good access to

targets ottoperat tonal interests

WUBRTN/1 solzed eagerly

upon To linance a movie deal?

stating that he had alwaya.

wanted to finance a

WUBRINY/1 satd that he

KET

---

## Page 54

would anerid the cover letter to Include this possibility.

Butt the

undergigned

and WUBRINY/l stressed the importance

uf TICHBORN's öbtalning U.S. clients to represent in

Some further training for TICHBORN was recommended

Dy WUBRINX/1

aces.

, 86ucing that a visie:

tO WUSALINE®s affillate

s affillate.

5.

U. S.

the third or fourth week in May 1968:

WiRISY/l said chat QUSALT/1 1s coning, was

to the

greed shat woBRent and TICHBORN would gear up to

See sons endorsement of TICHBORN developing

ousiness for WUSALINE

Both TICHBORN and the undersigned Informed

WUBRINY/A that employment terms have been agreed upon

and opined that these terms might be more liberal than

WUBRLNY/1 would, privately

extend

The undersigned sald

that the Agency would embody TICHBORN employment terms

in a contract from which commercial terms could be drawn.

The undersigned added that all of the funding of TICHBORN

would not necessarily have co be accomplished through

WUBRINY/1•

TICHBORN owes the Agency $199.99 on an old loan.

TICHBORN promised faithfully to send ine undersigned a

chèck in this amount prior tu 3! nay 1968•

The Covert Tax Unit desires

a certified

copy. of

BORN Income tax filing for 1966.

that hẹ

TIGHBORN said

had been unable to locate one end had askri

the IRs for a copy:

TICHBORN's wife is concoined avout schools in

ischools

The undersigned gave TiCHBORN information on

as obtalied from EURI

a arlend who spent three years in

and from

TICHBORN

send that he would like to go alone to.

Sara: to be able

in advance: for

Mis tamilyo

make arrangements

---

## Page 55

11.

An

amended cove :

as well as QUSALT/l's re.p rise

ester is awalted from WUBRIN/l

co TICHBORN's assigment.

DO/C

EUR

- TICHBORN file-

chrono

SECRET.

---

## Page 56

a t lia.

n.io.

---

## Page 57

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 58

wi &

sdard

OGRAZ

---

## Page 59

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 60

: 01350403

i 173

---

## Page 61

• UNGLASSIFICO

SUNICT, (Orional)

FROM.

Doicol

10, (Officer designation, veroni number, end

Bailed incis

Chef lEUR

4 3 260

12 PATHAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

| та

4156

DATE

DON:

Herewith into an tilin

you kindio dis fa farmones

was the surely Las

His main cane sciocociation

land davelines pret in

vengeela, No also has aie

Wild such hes previou tria

"fiery sa finencial epiting,

I love not hid an pineami

wait br the Cigency td k

is. can get him on Pis ?

will let you know wit

4-ESPACES

FORMA

610 to mong 3

• SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERM

USE OM

201-253203

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 62

1110147661 7 pra

done corde

SEORET

25 12r 2931

BE ONCE: F03: Chief, Do

: Chter, co/co

eaae..::

Firend Go Bolbon (r)

2.

no untesatont on 28 diss 1957 rentica In Wi Divicion

Tichrom's 201 fije (ly Coldera) cna rolazed unczational feloco

Perticiano

intention was Jire in this revicu to ficurora

scurity.

??.

The flles redlock that lichbortis vur recurity

conceirue.

There to no ciliao that Plehlong wins ever curs

pocice on being a home, operatic.

%.

The

files salest

thap Chebborn

15 rely senditive

prices

because a siond sold Molbom Lict

sho korea,

artend.

i proposed tren

felt there has ro

ble co:us.

"airee countrica

work i ere

shicce dedicamonto starboa

core cover.

It Is.

unders

uleguines,

although

tads was not notud in the gutch verter of

thó Cilca

Tie

can, or comou, be deputafes In detull co chie

aépcot.

SERRET

---

## Page 63

2hc

1=5 tirri

12d:o03 indicitie

nade

CC..

Ecariation

courierior

Lin

217ivs

rona

12-2,

b;

she

adiso a eurorares

{116e

that one, lows Hircick, was thread thai obicID

coated Dizzoice:

CES

ere post cois ordatory.

on the negatin

side, elfistrative detallo bore hug.

The understened hes gongined with Chaos, It'cA

shat is Do will ine over rictrora's contract, li rada por

mielborn's

clam int einenocs. for the first quartos or a

2901.

Chied, Vit/CA 15 craitin; Do's decision.

The underalaca 1s veer Savorash Ancisial ig

richsorn:

By 1 October; 1t 1a relicied tict lichsor vil

se aitriciontly voll trained-t comercial end investacut

boring mattere to do local-bucinges conculting on a fre

Sec16 for WUSLIE. Ha chould se cole, dopending or

nor of cucraulonel cocutrosase, to carn a scat,

12 ret

Dig of his ralaji

O: this bairs, 14:1c reconnordea: that

Wich the underotenting chast alrision will coran 2aehborn's

rolary ad omences curing tis cirst quarter of fy Josi,

DO/ CU

CO..CUR:

CE305, 20/C0

Detc

DoEs

26 My 1017

---

## Page 64

1226

Chlor of Stadioa

01101

NEPOTTS

Salerence:

23350, 11 canuary 1968

LatIon: 8035 Consents are roquestod.

Ho rocrot our delsy in rospunding to loteresco and precoodias

earrespondence on this casa.

lo vill attorpt bolos to assuer too

questions posed and commont shero portisent, layod to paragraph 3 0r

Beferenco.

Jcan, in principlo, bo ccod as in tafomation

collection pecharisa.

The type of reutrerants to bo levied via

TsalIss would tavo to be contatont mith that orcaniuation's past and

prosent dentings vito BUSMIlal

lies corercially logical and

Bonsiblo, Operatics on thie ses

pilon, to boltovo thet both conoral

a spectre coquests for soporaton coutg be levied and coutg curer

o too trange of econoate and comerctal topics. Ke solfott your so

sach regutrearita..

Tole sobjoct ras invootiented dies TIcuoin during a visit

Do sade to lendaunrters during to goat of 39 January 1963.

Tbere

seems to be littlo doubt tia: TICIOIN could cbtoln the necessary

laterviers, prite an srticle, and hive ft publianed in a publicatio

such as life Internationai

In coasidoring this proposition, boveve.,

ta sonder joet what, a

trip sould accorplish. to foreved that richora

wond obtain Biographte and linited assesmont data on cortata bici

lovol ocononie figures,

to night algo cuteta cors positive intol

conco intomation by ellcitatton Bus, given TIChpost's backcronad and

the cost isportant salo, espectally should a gavorablo seticle

parsonal contact isth those person intoryloved. Therein lies tha

proble

Lant of transecrrice tho roletionship establsared by TiCHeor

So soneore else in tha Statton:

Do tool that you dill sarco tat this

ts a disrenls taine to do.

in cort, sill the bonesit to un frose

short (possibly two/threo board) forny by TICHEORH be worth the

At tachonte:

(contlerod

2.

TICICORN notea

Identities

Distribution:

3 = 005)

w/atta

DISPATON STRASCA AND NUISOL

0545-10380

2291

13 February 1048

65-120-19-1

ORIGINATING:

TOORDINATING

6353:

1=

Es Cops

EJIB

067. 8 57 9894

DAlE:

OSFICER SACLARE

001-253203

111145546

"QUARES SIONATURE

C/S/ID

53

VIE PREVINUR ENTION

SAKE

4451

DISPATCH

---

## Page 65

Д.саліій ок

bert is 1e

socossary lovestaent in tieo, loney and esfort. Includod in thu

inter sould be Chica/Lolice approval.

Such approval altays roguires

sulle oporational Juetirication and such justificativu souid lo

ospecially Decossary in this case, due to the probabio publication'

outlet involved, Lito Intormattoral.

Fe are inclined to chin.

uniosi, and shio do a poesibllity

ciscussed beloo in parerach 2, TICon vore to bo assigneu pos to

spain sor a poriod ol a jodi ci nore.

..

ALSO diaCUSSO ELLa TICINORY CUrIRE lis reciat visit vas tho

costacto of tho

Station tho migat lo ctecrod to bis.

In the sorser category, te

determinod that TICIONN las Doi yot boca activo in baller Jew

costnets but sould to silling to do so, on a celected basia.

question bore 1s, hon sould so sish his to reat and develoo?

(SICTEORY"& leediato ruction tag to sustest be neot the

sabassador to Jachiagton.) Unlosa the Statton bag sono spocrfio

cardiustes

In sind, sa bollove tha nost profit to be tad fros tols

exerciso inittaily. vould ho to sivo sIcioni tte tast of asscabling

a spotting report

an-bta bose city engayed in coscereinl

set vition to whor presuno TICmon sould be able to logically

sevelop access.

Ho feel that to niv bima broad salgasent of

reporting on boy nid ali

ho coets scald te colf dofonting.

on the latter catecory of targota,

those solected

Piatono city to cat bo stered to hin of the statioa, e delle

Beat cover corstderation vili bavo to be carotally handled in order.

to protocs richomo sot solid corer. TICeRi currently in covered

as 8 business corsultant and attorney under Identity A. Ho fa

specifically identified sith Identity B and, chen rogutred, co on

pità rosAil. Va sould do purfccily stilli to

coBs1d0r 09105

Mamon in thio tay provided tho turcote vare carg-

tully selected and could ba stecred

Als cover.

tO 1ILu502Y sithous endascerlag

In aniver to paragraja 2d of tho Referosco, va are forsarding

separaga cover coptes

0f tua reports which fICTioni sutaltted

to Foadquarters after bin return.

Fe can finl no tediention thit

theno vero sent to you at the tina, altionto that ese our totention.

I9 asy event.

they appoar to conatitute adultionni dotati to versal

reporta provided to the Station by TIG SORil thile ho vas thera laat

As the Station notes, the queation of a pos assignesat to

for rICubORN ras chelved last ycar cue to a vartoty of reasona,

boca pereonal and professloant.

Recent discusatons with Poplit,

torever, indiente that such ea ssaigment stould sot be ruled out.

It la possiblo that Ticaul tould bo avallable for PCS analesoat

Jam 7939, anemios that sultablo coves rangenta cas bo

vorked out. In tito regard, his assicanenti

Lan la VOSALINS

s1gut ba a lorical extorsion of hits faat and

present netivities.

ID vio of the Statione consents lo paragraph

is esiguint ta presentiy no coro than a long range pose 611sty, it

te naverthelosa an attractive ono, vorto an eschango of Mera:

Developmonts cited in paragraphs 3a and 3da of tho Reference

are volcone aa both copear to constitute potential accoug of value.

"e u1ll bo nost interonted in your progresa.

"4. The case of QUSALT/} 16, as ever, a iboray ona. fo Dill

ORIeNt OD 1t by separato dispatch. •

TO SUO Up, leaLquarters iS alE INTrOSEOU CItA TICEORI'

potential as Indicated by his all-to brio! vieit

dect your.

(continued)

-530

---

## Page 66

Pazs 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRLT

OSIW-10890

Judgins tron his parlornuce thore it appoars that be would bo i

vilushio audition to the Station effort arairct the uniloterial

11 be sore to be asslured

Jula utility bore, or on

a briel TOY caulgonent frou here is, ve icol, for Icic and caa only

po eaves sorantage of by a realitic uclection of any tasis tie rai

nas kin to perfora.

bero in little doubt tbat ho can scot

os Interest,

the probica lics in how to follow up at long raago, or

how to ¿raasior a

roictionsily catablisted by TICHDORN tO 60100n3

e1so gio could tele operctional advanteco of li. Otherise, to vill

end up vith a long list of cases and little elso. On this basic

polot, a farmation of tho spociile itens dealt with above, re sould

volcane an exchango of vieus with tho station.

53g

L74 PARIOUS EDITION.

10.

CLASSITICATIÓN

SECRET

3

CONTINUES

---

## Page 67

14-00000

---

## Page 68

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 69

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 70

UNCLASSIFIED

IAL

USE ONLY

• CONFID: HAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SÊCRET

SUBJECT, (Optional).

FROM.

DO/CO

GJ -64

TOi ¡Offen designation, roam number, and

building)

C/DO/CO

Rm.

502 - 1750 Bldg.

Do / co

61. 64

BIATI

DATE

RECENTO

6054

OFFICERS

INITIALS

1 February 1968

FORWARDED

duct comment.!

Зів.

TAKe IT EAsT

40 LAs- INT.

TAMS 68296 10%

the Kat ion tock

BiAN AREA:

а, ік..÷

File 201 51

13.

•FORM

7.37

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

USE ONLY

501: 2.53.263

_ UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 71

1231

1 February 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief/El

SUBJECT..

Project WUBRINY - Possiblo Operational

Support of

station Objectres by

Edward G. TIGHBORN (P)

RETERENCE:

23, 350 Dated 11 January 1968

Per Mr. Long'e roquent, the underplaned on 30 January 1903

discused with Edward G. TICHBORN (P) possible support of

Station objectveg no rained la rof. It was condrmad that:

8.

WUSALINE

cas be uned as an informallon collecten

mechaniem in cases wbere information requirements cas be couched

In plausible economic and coinmerclal torme for contractual surveys.

b. TICHBORN con gasess and develop selected

contacle

oll

_Station who may be visiting New York and who desire

Introductions In US commercial circles.

TICHBORN can develop

in Now York no may be

of operadónal interest to

Station. TICHBORN has not

sado an effort lo develop

a New York but lo willing and

ablo to do so for say destinatod do operational tangète, ll desired:

TICHBORN thinks he can neet the

Ambangador to tho U.5:

through a filend

TICHBORN feels that he could write on article concerning

leading

industrtallate and bankers for pabliching in a pro-

minent publication, such as "Life International." TICHBORN

---

## Page 72

2.

for dispates tol

It te andoxatood it E

has a copy of TiCHBORN'S report

Station por ref.

3.. Personnel conceraad wịch Project WUBRINY will be glad to

work with E

in say fallor-up to the possibilities notod above.

15/

DO/CO

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/DO/CO V

1 - C/DO & DE/DQ

1

- WUBRINY file

1- Chrono

---

## Page 73

DISPATCH

Chief, European Division

BASIN ILAJIN

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED OR MOUNTS

NO DEDIXITE RIQUIE IO

OKLY QUALTHO CISE

ICAN JUTGI INDIXiNG

LICROFILA

Chief of Station

SURICE

• Operational/Edward G. TICHBORN Trip

ACTAIN RIGUIRLS - CULLIONS

Reference:

22,778

1.

has awaited a report of TICHBORN'S trip

and

some response to the various

proposals made in

Reference Dispaich.

SHERIDAN carcied 'back the message that TICHBORN would not be

assigned

PCS

to

as suggested he might be in DIR 32794

He bave a higb:

opinion of TICHBORN's talents, so this was a disappolatment.

Regarding the proposals we made about how TICHCORN miebt

continuc to be useful in his target

(see DIR 13385), there are several that we would Tike

Headquarters to revlew:

mechanism, ". Can FÜSALINE

be used as an Information collection

Osusdigs: ge

Has luriher thought been given to TICHBORN's writing

article

(possibly for

"Life International") on leading

Industrialists and bankers?

Can TICKBORN deveilpl

Station? Can the Station ast selected.

In hts home city for ..

contacts, who

of assessiog and developing then?

IS TICHBORN preparing a report or contemplating any

föllor-up action to Reference trip?

3.

Reference

provides sufficient details to make all these

questions clear.

I Headquarters cou give us a status report

on

the

above questions

and where ve now stand with TICHBONN and fUSALING,

we con in

turn mike suggestions on how we belleve TICEBORN's

talents

can be used in the future.

As centioned above,

we have a high opipion

of his ability and we hope we can benefft fron it.

Ip the meantine,

Distribution:

C/EUR

6A3678

Lister son commit

CRATES- REFECTA

CS COPY

OSMA 233,50

CASSEASON

EC RET

65- 720- 13:

DAR

11 Janunry 1968

POS FILE BURBER'

HaS:

65-120-13

WUSALIXE

---

## Page 74

CONTINUATION OF.

DISPATCH

CHAS SA LAT

SECRET

23,350

there

that should

are several developments relating to TICHBORN/WUSALINE, ete•

he acctlined.

Reference.

a. The Station is now in direct contact with IDEY G of

QUSALT/1.

b. If he can be cleared, Station plans to attempt to recruit

as a possible cover mechanism.

The Station is no longer considering HUSALINE

IDEN B. of Reference.

The Station (tbrough HARRIOTT and NOGGLE) has met

We would appreciate Readquarters help'in putting some:

mocentui back into the Mission TICHBORN embarked on

and on thich

be wide a good start.

---

## Page 75

1 February 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Project WUBTZAS Statis Report

REFERENCE: Memorandum for Arcord, dated 23 January 1968.

Same Subject

i Red Botes that John A. BLENISOP (P) had suggested cer.

talo changes in his proposed contruct and that these suggested changes.

had been referred to the OGC for comment.

change.

2. Mitached are the OCC commente on BLENKINSOpi, suggoated

In briel, the OGC stood firns on the proposed contract an written

and rejocted BLENKINSOP's suggested changee. One change suggeated by

BLENKINSOP, 1. to allow Interim hotel expesses greater thas $1000.00

If necessary, was considered administrative by the OGC and

Telt to DO for deciaton. In view of the rejection of BLENKINSOP'e other

euggested changes, it was decided to accept BLENKINSOP's request for

Interim hotel expenses to exceed $1000. 00 i necessary. BLENKINSOP

suggested chinge reade "Barring extraordinary circumstances, these

(expenses/ are not to exceed the amount of $1000,00." In his juatifca-

Mon for thie change, BLENKINSOP potre that flee in tramale for furniture

could entend to alt weeks and that in this case hotel expenses could be

closer to 22000.00

WOBRNY Il was advised on 24 Jamary 1968 of our pooltion

on the confract." He qui relay it to WUBRINT I and/or BLENKINSOP.

BLENKINSOP & reaction de awalted.

IS/

DO/CO

Distribation:

1 For the Record:

1-

WUBYZAS Ale

I - DO/CO Chron

SUG

211 - 253203

---

## Page 76

aarertols

Do det o whe do loiadancierd de-pettae,a.eh zvet

U UNGLASSIFIED

USE ONLV

E] сон.

ROUTING AND RECORUI SHEEY

YTIAL

SECRET

•SUIUFCT: 10p

GJ 64

O Dslsar duniprustion, nien auabsr, on

beikdien

• His

DOCO •

Hdqs.

DATE

uud adt

6054

APICER #

MTLALI

APCEMED

RORWARDED

C/n0/CO

Eare 11 Jan '68

oue e l ia at e atona o a o droa aoce,

Tichhon sol

Wapig.ores

Chlel, DO

64.

12.

610 2 pono

EINONS

SECRET

L

CONFIDENTIAL

IIONAL

UsE OAtY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 77

24347 1137915

$02T

10 Jaruary 1968

MENORINDUM FOR: RECORD

SUBJECT

Agreement with WUBRINY/1 to Defray.

Portion of Edward G. TICIIBORN 'g (P):

$17,000 Annual Contract Fee:

1. Chief, DOCO, DC/DOCO,

and the

undersigned met on 3 January 1968 with HUBRINY/ and

WUBRINY/21

WUBRINY/1 had previously agreed in prio-

ciple to buying a portion of TICHBORN's time.

He was

asked at the 3 January meeting to make a specific

proposal on this matter. It was pointed out to

WUBRINY/1 that the Agency does not have at this

time any operational requirements for TICHBORN

and that, ideally, TICHBORN's. $17,000 annual contract

fee would be offset. completely by commercial fee

income.

WUBRINY/l said that he is forming a develop-

ment company

for a land development project

in which TICHBORN could be very useful. the nest six

months.

He proposed that the development company

retain TICHBORN for six months at $5,000.

project is continued,

TICHBORN. will be retained for

a higher figure for the next six months plus a bonus

1 ta project is successful.

The company will, of

course, also defray TICHBORN's expenses incurred on

the land development project.

For the Agency and:

Project WUBRITY,.

the agreement with WUBRINY/i means

that WUSALINE wiil expend $3,500 to retain TICHBORN

for the next six months.

3.

The

Desk was advised that

TICABORN will be going to

on 10: January

dies and will be spending considerable time, there

during the nex. six months.

mas very receptive tu exploiting TICHBORN operationally

and prepared a detailed cable for COS

However,

this

proposed cable was

modified by Wit Division upper

SE TET

---

## Page 78

STORET

Entedona to a notification thar TICHBOR will be

As of 9 January;

there had been no

response by

COS

-DOCO

7(C/DOCO)

Orig-

C/ DO

1

* WUBRINY/Ops

1

- DOCO.

hrono

SEGRET

---

## Page 79

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

-ONtT

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SURIACTi (Ophonil)

LOSER, HENRY R

CONf PENTIAL

O SECRET

UTUMHON

NO.

Batt

E/acial. 1 = 171.8

aling)

DATE

BICATIB | PORWARDIO

SANTIALS

8.

201-453103

ConTains:

ВИКУ

TRAVEL VOUCHERS.

PERFORMANCE REPORIS

EARNING SIATEMENTS

MEDICAL RECURDE

CONTRACT COPIES

CREDIT CARDS

CALL IP/TILES, EXT. 6867

FOR ATTACHMENTS.

CENTER JOB NO.

RECORDS

KOta

610 -8010N

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

20 1-

INTERNAL

I USE ONLY

253203

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 80

closin ecl

25002T

27 Doceabor 1087

NEHORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SOBJECT

Chief, DO/CH

Funding

of

Projec: "UBRINY

Projoct NUTACTIC VUGLITTER

through

As you know, FUTACTIC/VIGLITTER currently bold

317 338:88 of Project WUBRINY funda consieting of

13,000.00 frc N$ Division to reimburge

wUSALiN for support of Stuff Agent Martiod.

UNGRICH (P),

$1,859.81 from Project MUTARDY to relaburse

WUSALINE for an oporational survey

$5,000.00 from WIl Divislon to reimburse

WUSALINE for support of Contract Agent Edward G.

TICHBORN (P),

d.

$7,679.00 somalning of Project HUBRINY/?

funde

2.

Transnitted under separate cover is a b1lling

Prom YUSALING tO WUTACTIC/WUGLITTAR 1n the amount of

$17, 265,50

please arrange for & check to be drawn~

in the tavor of FUSALINs in this arount and sent to

GUSALINE Attention:

the nuthor of the billing.

Would apprecinte comploting this transiction

prior to 31 December 1937.

If the check route is not

a bank transfer would bo alt right.

Necessary

its for bank trongfer can be supplied if needed; by

telephone. By my calculations, the remainder of Project

WUBRINY lunds 1p

WUTACTIC/FUGLITTER after this funding

w111 be $73.08.

Orig & 1

DO/CH

Ticbborn

UNGRICH PilO

• Do/Co chrono

= F/Support

201-255203

Th.1t9

---

## Page 81

Cadne drunaedt ieadeaaineeticdo pndowend daue

14-00000

---

## Page 82

14-000n

d..л)

EXPENSE LEPORT

Oct. " 3,

1967

I$

175.00

Oct.

4

36.58

Oct.

4

Oct. 13

574.30

88.32,

Oct. 16

250.00

Oct.

30

39.40

Nov. 14

Nov®

14

Nov. 14

18.10

82.58

201.22

$1465.50

Total Expenses:

Total Consulting Fees

Total Due

$.1.465.50

15,800.00

$17,265.50

---

## Page 83

14-00000

SUBJECT, (Oshanati

CArl Contracts

1O1 (Oltie disipration poos number, end

bwilding)

1.

3D 5321

DATE

RECEIVED

PORWARDID

DUENSION

4460

OFFER'S

BATMANG

RATE

16 November 1967

C/DO/SS 171S BLOG

C/DO/Pers 17 51 BLDGe

Pairi

is.:

UNCLASSIFIED

"YA!

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIC TIAL

SECRET

6304>

File tethou

201

670 n

Ixx:

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

201-253203

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 84

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

UNTEL-STATES GOIERIMEIT

Memorandum SECRET

C/ DO/Pers

C/H/Contracts

Edvard G. TICIBORV, Insurance Premiums

DATE: 16 November 1967

It is requested your office effect necessary arrangements

for Edward G. TICIORY to forward future insurance premiums directly

to & Do component for related processing.

2.

premiuns

Heretofore TIQBORY has been sending his check for

to:

It was noted that on his last check, TICHBORN had of course

signed the check in true name but had also inserted "TICHBORN Medical

Insurance®

It would appear to be advisable to brief TICHBORN:

on the use of a pseudonym.

SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on sbe Payroll Savings Plars

200%

---

## Page 85

ONCLASSIFIED

ALTERNAL

¿ ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON'* ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oprasad)

FROM:

3D5325

TO: (Officer designation, tom numiner, and

building)

WH/B&F°

3D5325

CATE

9127

7p3

EXTENSION

6523

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

russ

lur

NO

DATE

29 September 1967

COMmENTS (Number doch comment to show from whom

to whom.

Digm a line octost coiumn offer soch commeni.)

2.

3:

:

C/WH/SS

tle Tether

201

C/DODS

Trelliam velve

an o octolen to

3instellmnest

125, solach.

10.

11.

FORM

3-67

11T USE PEIVIOUS

DITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

201-253203

I UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 86

34.00000

the totat

SEORET

.17.

29 September 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief, DODS

REFERENCE

Chief, WH Division

Edward G. TICHBORS (P) - Settlement of

Outstanding Account

Memorandum from C/Mi, dated 29 August

1967 - Same subject

During a meeting on 13 September 1967, C/wh/Bar advised

subject that monthly payments of $125.00 had heen received:

through May 1967 and that funds due him from TDY travel in

the amount of $175.01 aa& applied

as his June payment.

TICHBORN stated he thought he had mailed a check

for $125.00 and he would check his records when he returned

to New York.

As of this date no check has been received.

It is requested that TICIBORN be contacted and ad-

that the

loan payment he promised has not been received;

and that he should forward his check in the amount of $375.00:

which will currently pay his loan through 30 September 1967.

4. Please advise MiB&F accordingly.

Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET

---

## Page 87

20 Esptember 196%

DUS JET

Bat one to of end costet ros

Mate has that

Artted, you

LENE

DOCO

201-253203

---

## Page 88

397 1557

NTHORANDIM PORI Chief, MI/BAD

(201-253203)

ON ch Tuy 1967, but that

WHS

that va Divinto

sended by

MUBAG ON

1041 0840043 71966-50 14071961

3.350099

1147,730

) to DO

noệo of: 11

20 I6:83 requestod Pat Vu Diviaon ratsburo DO Division

Mastionalty D the noünt of. s, 585.99 covering the $2, 250.00

sance of TICHOPIto salary (317,000-14, 750) and the #2, 333-99

pennes ineurod prior to 30 Jua 106T.

Paymint Instructions

re attent

(elenod)

chief, DO Support Grow

DOCO/Gale ALien/elv (21 Sep 67)

Distribution:

1 - DO/BE

4C201=2532034

1 - DOCo, chrono

SECRET

201-253203

---

## Page 89

SECRET

TO-

Office

of Finance

FROM : BO/CH

Date: 81 ethn

SUBJECT: Requegt for Covert. Pappeit (Other Than Cash and, Treasury Check)

3.

It Is requested that payuent authorized on sitached documents reflecting obligation

reference number (or otber divisional ref. No.)

be made In the tollowing manner:

1. Payrent to

Beo Bolou

$ 0.800:00

2. Method of Payment

ATLANTA

Goiron

By cbeck:

(1)

Devised Cover Check." Account No.

(2):

Bank Cashier's Check (spectty city by Checking below)

MINNEAPOLIS:

LOS

NED YORK®

CLEVELAND

*Checks

In any amount up

to

POILADELP DATA

825,000.00 from New YOrks 510,000.00 Tron Data,

$2,500.00 from Washirgton are avsilable for immediate delivery.

b.

By depoult bank transfer, etc. to Payee's Bank Accuunt:

Baiking Instructions to effect deposit (for use by Requesting Officer or

Compensation and Tax Division

Complete the following®

(2) Account Name:

(2) Account Number:

3: Bank Name:

4) Bank Addresc:

5) Transfer:

Q via Mail

fa Bank Wire

6) Payment to be originated Iron

Dallei

21p:

• Cable

(7) Indicate remittor if desired:

c..

It payuent 1s to be originated by foreign bank, specity country.

and complete section b.(2) through (7) above.

Division, Field Operatione Branch, ext: 3523.

Payment by other peans: Contact Monetary Division BankIng Branch Officer, ext.

3493:

Check will be picked up at 1 6829 rags. or fa (Specter)

When transaction is complete notify

ext.

OR USE-BY OFFICE OF FiN

CHeck on

SECRET

TELEPHONE

те полоти-іс, ка адріл

---

## Page 90

5

SECKET

: Criõe of Firance :

Date: 11 Copteriga 1007

SUWECT: Reques" for Covert Paysent (Other Than Cest and freusury Cleck)

= is requesied that payent austorized on astoched docusunsa tetlectine obiseusion

reterace ranber (or other divisional ser. ão.)

be müue la die following sardier:

5,000.02

csa C3l62

DE PATIE (PANO)

=. Nestor o. Payment

3y check:

(1):

Devised Cover

Check.

Accouit No.

(2)

Bank Cachter's Check (specity city- by checking zelon)

RAQADILLE

SOS LANGUAGOA

• I'CHNOND

Reactio

PALMATTON:

8 NO voide

MILANECT

Checks do any abount up to $25, 000.00 froc New Yore:

$2,500.00 fros hashinsion are available for "cediate

$20,000.00 from Dullas; •

delivery.

3y dezoals, bank transfor;

etc: to Payee's Baria Accoiat:

Banking

Instructiors

tO

Cospersation and Tax Dividio)

elect deposi. (for use by sequesting Officer or

Cordlete the followingt

(1) decount Nace:

(2) iscount juzberi.:

3ank Nace:

raiser:

(8) passer to be ostatrated ?ros -

La Bardo dire or

O Cacie

..

(7) Indicate

rentator 1? destred:

=

paster:

s

to

be orre mazed sy Ecrels:

25220059 E222 A CaL

Eir Spectal COming

Division,

section b.(1) noigs Go aloves macuss dece le wits Yesecary:

Field

Ozera:does Breach,

Panese is outer beena: Copsace Vezerary Durision Barclag Brascs Coescer, elt.

359954

Chess sal: be

packed up a: DiEse Eager as lenient

azes saisaction 18 corplee sorty

BC05 05-- Com

SECRET

---

## Page 91

O UNCLASSIFIED

ONLY

• CON? ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBFCT: Ophone

FROM

C/WH/B&P

TO: loficer demprenos

limitelang)

3D5325

and

DATE

7765

FAIC:**

вПай

29 August 1967

C/VH/BAP

CAH/SS

7C, 67

crangeametine,

Gitween Tallon

C/DODS

ATT:

3 C AUC 1957

on istept.

File Trakhoin

201

FORMA

3-62

610 SE FONOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

301- 213203

_ UNCLASSIFIED:

---

## Page 92

SECRET

29 August 1967

MIMORANDUM FOR: Chief, DODS

ATTENTION

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief, HH Diviston

Edward G. TICHBORN (P): - Settlement of

Outstanding Accounts

The finance records of Wl Division Budget and

Fiscal Branch refleot

an outstanding unaccounted, for

balance of funds amounting. to. 03,613.384

This amount

represents unaccounted for funds utflized by TiCHBORN

what one ses neen advised preylousty as to the nature deot

what these unaccounted for lunds represent and was to

contact MI Division when he was to the Headquarters area:

for further discussion and settlement.

2.

In addition, TICHBORN received a loan from the

Agency which he is required, to repay at the rate of

$125.00 per month. He is presently two months in arrears

in payments, of which his

current loan balance 1s

$1,074:99.

3.

•It is requested that your office advise TICHBORN

regarding the settlement of the unaccounted for funds of

$3, 813.38, and also that

his loan.

the amount of $250.00 Is due on

4. Please advise WHI B&F accordingly.

Acting Chter.

Western Hemisphere Diviston

SECRET

Sier

---

## Page 93

14-000n

tica-

RErasD FO sErGEa

Aannheen

.Cobe sa2ENe6

: FHLE

EazatuaE

voliretrao:

i toe mnie?d

mait so.

Muz 67

201-253263

---

## Page 94

14-000

-====:

ecaa

2 lạ

===2 13

Cim 2050a

2183

OSMA-23,118

C=0-

15:

calesteek

-tic

5a5e

C'=.

RS

-23

2. 2

ce,

13

1- Tukn/0p30)

==

.?,,

---

## Page 95

raid can. 1:092*g

Le..

5710

he/

: 1:

ilis

train god to obe

a secures concently alace

mentists

Esperate chore ba

is saint dos very pictiser te

Milor.

22902304200

÷4:.

÷ 53

17: 225

Seated

---

## Page 96

=S.

i.n:

doadn iraci

?..d

sact

pa..!:

chiaat

? !.

229252724 4

•2as

3.9

tor:

•!'::

e.a..

1..3

---

## Page 97

td-innod

1722.600022

.3.0

Cacca,

.: t:

12:

^:=1

i*.

---

## Page 98

11::

---

## Page 99

iinnn eshaeederdedaren.

i..i debeirtei meidiead

---

## Page 100

1-00003

-...

---

## Page 101

14-00000

---

## Page 102

14-00000

---

## Page 103

i nobilia cose sodo

ordite

---

## Page 104

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 105

4-00000

---

## Page 106

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 107

maaie. . i

---

## Page 108

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 109

F Pasted

544555

0000

---

## Page 110

14-00000

---

## Page 111

'.r"

-i.i-iva

sabpashhaenibdlatahett

14-00000

---

## Page 112

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 113

14-00600

---

## Page 114

..... in so..

scond tedes

---

## Page 115

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 116

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 117

58076258-443

---

## Page 118

teolg ol. le.

---

## Page 119

14-00000

---

## Page 120

'ise ac?

000e-??

---

## Page 121

14-00000

---

## Page 122

4-00000

totale deld Daldel.

---

## Page 123

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 124

14-0000 -

.......

---

## Page 125

un sesse

---

## Page 126

""MAit?

.ndnociin addieoncdchitet ie.

in hait mlartet irit,

apian

Eoansenis1%

---

## Page 127

14-00000

---

## Page 128

14-00000

---

## Page 129

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 130

F:e

adeien oneiis

+7932001

---

## Page 131

1Epaiя *.

---

## Page 132

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 133

14-00000

---

## Page 134

êir o! .

.*:

Nsyaane

c teslaemneme den end

---

## Page 135

510 "

Serie

---

## Page 136

RODRIAN

---

## Page 137

.. aynast

p= .

SSR'F

.a...

---

## Page 138

eoipeit@idiggda.iiigotom

sscsadawwwconedkeahlassa.a

Aean neneeo ddier doeres

---

## Page 139

4S0010

---

## Page 140

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 141

ACCUNTING

Gavanced on Jurie 24

Spendistine:

3S June, 1967

Take to NY arpirt

+ tip

$1200

410.153

4 Se

11.25

36 June 0 1967

Tipa to ekycapa (midnig)

Tase to brotel (got gaped in ammetered cal).... 4.00

Trips at hotel

Hotel room

Vitet service phis tips

Telegram

Breckfoet

Finich,

Drinks

Cat fares

(year only)

03.0.

15.00

4:20

.30

1.S0

12. 201

7.00

• 50

1S59s 3

5s.4s

=201- 253203

---

## Page 142

Breakfaer

cat

• Длин

28 June

Breakfast

Cate fares

More calli

focal dischies i may

Note norm

Sumer

Cat fore re atre

1,80

1:00

4.30

46.20

/.

8:0

.0D.

15.00

N 50.

3:10

28.00

---

## Page 143

29 June

Breakfaet hap

Valet

trunding

Patel: room

Long distancs call (NY Ster)

finich

30 дине. -

Breatfist i Hip

Fing distines

to home ent

Hotel wim

Cut fare 1.

Bunke

lend plone call

1.5á

©.#

4, /c

15.00

23.30

7.50

3.20

23.55

$.0

15.

2L7

master" -→

13. 1

---

## Page 144

July 1, 1947.

Breakfast

cat farea tipis

phone calls

Princh

Wotel noo

Damer

ent for

1 tip

Jity 2, 1967.

Breakfret

wote room

phone: calls

Franch

at fire tip

1.20

3.00

4620

17.

10200001

1e6.0

15.00

350

(movie protes

121250

3:00

43. 2 01

49.20

---

## Page 145

ANS: L

Juch

3..1967

isveahfaste

Cit: fares

vilet

Hotel rrins

Finnev

Eranka

phone calle

de neug

Julge y

Breifint.

cat fares i topio.

Linet w/ train

Witl room

ptne calle

Leiendiry

vitet

DAane

Auaner

Fepak,

petagactceo

%.80

1.50

1.50

iS.

21J0

coc ca

47.30

247.20

itr:?

5.

20

---

## Page 146

Judy 5, 1967

Cal fares Tipo

Thome calle

1.70

1.90

Book on Piner

a sprani (900 pte)

tailie

Drinks

Anner

i wantons

Cat fore ne abou

(more peril);:

: 155.00

is.00

:1:Yo

Fazo

8.70

1.20

53.70

Breakfart i tap

Laundry

Hotel rome

Phone calle

Sumer

(rover)

(sting)

56.00

since ima

.53,70

---

## Page 147

7.

2944

1049

7,1967.-.0

Cat fires. 1. Tops

Tonit.

Atel

(drinks)

8.18

1. 73°

12,70

15.00

(ame)

17304

July ve

Hotel room

Fing distine call to free

Junct

End fines a tys

phone call

Sinner

Cat fires a above a tip

18:00

27.18

1.70

Q:

19.20

de Cara...

and other

said pilesis

11.90

1- 76.33

38.75

76. 33,

---

## Page 148

July

Breakfaat

Cat. fares

Lunch

Hotel noon

In share of taken with.

moire cronil of Tol de

(Toledo)

Phone call

Drinh

Emmer

Breakfit tipis

- Valet

Hotel room

tunch!

cal. fores

Sinner

• Drink

tha

1. 7:0.

14.80

15.00=

4,40

50

6.50

249.9.0

9:39.90

1.80

5: 100

-1.00 -

15.00 30222:13

into

140

-7.40

3.00

46.50

t46.50

---

## Page 149

July 41, 196%.

Breakfast i tip.

Hotel room

Phone calls

Cab. fire.

Drinks

Panes

Jin 1z, e9eü

Eat farce the a from Bait a tige

Cat to mathis anprit s tip

Кіде - него мус

Tipe to medit hath

Tapo to hotte arget pritera

parcelona arpent to stil

Kip at Brielne upnt

hotel.

Nitel room

Jon, distrives

ill

1.50

13"

.60

70

370: bạ

138.00

1.40

9. 101

20

2,20

4.00

1:00.

3.

48.00

9.20

32.7501

3; 80.

72.85

22 38.

372.85

---

## Page 150

13, 1967

Breakfast i tipi.

Fiona

Cat fores

Phone calla.

-8.0

12.

80

(my share )

'40.

site

3590

Brenkfurt stip.

Twich.

(my. share.):

Cat ti Barcelona irport + tip.

Tip to mard s ports (Barcelon)

Tip at Barcelona inport

a a cal fit ere ripent to hite

Hotel nor (Pinio) tax

Drinks

france

1.60

: 3,20

4:70

1.30

•50

L.So

2,50

25.0022226

6.20

49.70

35

40

49.70

---

## Page 151

July 1s

stel room.

Downer, an i Hasi

in o france (share)

Cat firer a tip

1.90

21:00

3.00

8.70

3.30

4:0.90

Breakfa

Lunch

phone calle..

thro

51. 73

2:90

370

3:30

2.70

11.00

rips, at hotel i airport

Tips at N7 aport

Tape: Ny airport to trae t

Hip 0-75

2.3,75

Mise

Paris arport tax 25 Fr

Arreloa

arpest.

1 trancers chicks

= 5,00

3.80

5.80.

12:00

40

90

/ 23.160

5.50

---

## Page 152

12

Preparati, trop to much

Janse 20..

Eat from trame to aport o thy;

Just an/ stem took (y cheri)

Ärtel nom

Gat fare to hated from Wish aport

Tips a import - hitl

Long distines call to NY. ffice

guns: ?1

Breakfint

Sick / Cong. Rigtal Can share)

Pline calle

Vilet arics i tup

Cat to wack asport i tip

Tapes at hotel

- Mack argent

My apost to home tip

''8.25.

3. 20

18.90

4.255

4:30

1860

- 19)

92,83

1.80

6. 68.

-. 60

1.251

4:25

7052

" У 2. 2)

96544

---

## Page 153

TOTALS. FOR TRIP

TOTALS FOR TRIP

FO: WASHINGTON

1092.01.

-66.06

1158.07

CREDIT. CARD CHARGES

CREDIT CARD CHANGES

455.88

FIR

WASMING TON

482.49

1158.07

483:49

PAID

OuT.

IN CASH

TOTAL TO BE ACCOUNTED FOR

TOTAL CASH PAYMENTS

Du e

1300.00

1:75. 3'8

€ 524.42

ADDENDUM

AMARA

PLANE FARES TO

PLANE FARE

To

PAID BY-

521.30

15 59.30

---

## Page 154

1158.17

557,30

1717

soier.

10 4

10-3

9-45

49-865

46 5.40

5 /2n→ Tron to enlemult)

sesalealaa

Deiet Montrerel 10 2220

u triss mesitane-

di dpe atpncin nit snad dengtia

/wwww.cade

Is en derwitting aseguunt

1200.60

53.60

3/.210

4216.00

3 0 güs

3. 4.08 54

2. 7500.00

$58 5 4

526.30

/ 32.24

Wwuni siuet

WH C2riccdnN

to tolame Do

---

