# 104-10414-10407

## Page 1

1104-10414-10407

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETA

PRO-

POSED

XX

PROCESSING

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM

PLISHED

INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

LIEMPTY Project Renewal

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Action: Renewal of Project

Attacied for Headquarters' action is Station's review of Project

LIEMPTY for purposes of renewing the project for the period 1 December

1962 through 30 November 1963. The attached review should also fulfill

the requirement of a progress report for the period since the last project

renewal. Hereafter, progress reports for this project will be submitted

quarterly.

Attachment:

As stated above.

Even pages - herewith

Odd pages - Under Separate Cover

Distribution:

# WHD w/5 atts

2 - Files

Hillard let

RECORDS CFICER

SIAN?

The followlng action is

authorized:

Capit

Signod:

R.0. 1630 - Unit WH/1/R

Note:

If destruction,

cito

IESSONS

and

coordinate

1f appropriate:

§CROSS REFERENCE TO

05 302Y

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50-6-7411

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

18 Oct. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 20052

SANT

MON 1992

HEADQUARTERS EILE NUMBER

GROUP/

reluded tea aubrintil

+ 350-6-74/1

---

## Page 2

13-00000

(

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER®

SHEET

CRYPTONYM

LIEMPTY

FIELD CASE OFFICER

Jeremy

NIAR COS

STATION

Mexico City

CHIEF OF STATION allaNdE wit

villard C.

CURTIS

The attached project action is presented for approval for the period

1 December 1962 through 30 November 1963.

ebil++-001-57520052

ES COPY

CB33P 1

Excluded from astamalc

dowaganing and

50-6-2411

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET;

Review of Project LIEMPTY

(For the purpose of Project Renewal)

I. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1.

"To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities." SCANTLING has continued (see pre-

vious Project Reviews forwarded as attachments to HMMA-17999, 31

October 1961, HMMA-14093, 13 November 1959, and HMMA- 15979, 18

November 1960) to provide worthwhile information pertaining to this ob-

jective. During the past year SCANTLING has continued to be used ex-

tensively to follow up leads produced by LIFEAT and LIENVOY. An ex-

cellent example of this blending of various Station support assets was the

investigation and casing performed by SCANTLING after leads from both

LIENVOY and LIFEAT indicated the possibility of launching a successful

technical operation against the residence of a high ranking LIMERICK

intelligence officer assigned to Mexico under diplomatic cover. With the

ald of the thorough casing report and neighborhood investigation completed

by SCANTLING, Station KURIOT personnel, supported by other Station

support assets, were successful in installing a technical device in the

SCANTLING continues to be the Station's primary means of keeping

current records on the residences of the many Soviet personnel in Mexico

City. This is primarily accomplished through SCANTLING's follow up of

all LIENVOY leads which indicate interest by Soviets in specific quarters.

(See previous project renewal requests for additional details.)

2. "To collect operational information pertaining to other targets of

opportunity, foreign official installations and personnel of intelligence in-

terest operating: in Mexico". SCANTLING is very useful for collecting in-

formation on other Station targets._

a.

On the basis of a lead from the ODACID installation in

Veracruz, the Station (with Headquarters support) mounted an

operation to unobtrusively sabotage a large unit of agricultural

machinery (of U.S. origin) which was in transit to Cuba. To

mount this operation, a precise and detailed casing of the imple-

ment was essential.

This SCANTLING was able to accomplish in

one trip to Veracruz with results that contributed substangianty-to

the operation.

Excladed

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SOMET

-2-

b. SCANTLING provided the Station a detailed investigation

of Harotun ("Harry") KOPOLAN, employee of American Communists

Albert and Margaret MALTZ, which

32 determined the residence

of KOPOLAN as well as his family status and connections.

c. In the Satellite area, SCANTLING completed a casing of

an official Yugoslav installation in conjunction with a projected

Station technical operation.

"To exploit operational leads through recruitments,

debriefings,

and surveillances." SCANTLING has contributed to this objective both

directly and indirectly as noted in the following examples:

SCANTLING completed a detailed and secure interview of

the fiancee of BESMOOTH to determine her connection with the

principals in the MCMAYFOWL case, particularly any connection

with procurement of documents used in the flight behind the Iron

Curtain.. This assignment was extremely sensitive (SCANTLING

was not told true reason for interview) and SCANTLING did an

admirable job while maintaining his cover for having the interview.

b. SCANTLING was called on for extensive initial spade work

in the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation. SCANTLING gave his

usual competent performance despite the fact that the role assigned

him was unique to his experience.

SCANTLING performed one man surveillance of a sensitive

Station Soviet double agent which contributed significantly to that

operation.

d. SCANTLING was used extensively during the visit of

GPIDEAL as part of the Station's effort in providing maximum

protection for the GPIDEAL party.

e. In addition, SCANTLING performed numerous pretext and

neighborhood investigations, some of which were highly sensitive.

SCANTLING also does most of the local investigations requested by

ODACID and other ODYOKE components.

In addition to his contributions to the above objectives, SCANTLING

is used for miscellaneous support requirements from the Station.

For example,

SCANTLING handled LIEMBROIL-2 until the return of LIMOTOR-14 in July

1962, SCANTLING is also used to spot and rent safe houses anapartments

for other Station operations. SECRET

Excluded fran actoratt:!

donngrading. ang

---

## Page 5

13-00000

- 3-

As stated in the preceeding Requests for Project Renewal,

although SCANTLING's LIEMPTY Project objectives can never be com-

pletely fulfilled, it Is the Station's opinion that SCANTLING has made

important and valuable contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives

specifically and to other Station activities in general. SCANTLING's

production, measured against monetary expenditures, case officer time

and other intengible factors, unquestionably justifies his continuation

as an integral part of Project LIEMPTY.

B. Raymond H, GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses."

Three photographic bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute

to this objective. To avoid repetition, the Station is omitting the usual

description of the functions of these three bases and how they contribute

to the above objective.

This was described in detail in the 1960 Request for

Project Renewal, (HMMA-15979)

2. "To collect operational information and identify operational

leads pertaining to Station targets of opportunity. " The LIENTRAP operation,

handled by GERENDE, is still the major contributor to this objective.

Among LIENTRAP's regular and extensive photographic assignments, was

the photo stakeout of prominent Mexican Communists (some of whom have

never been photographed previously by KUBARK) and Communist Party

Headquarters. During this assignment, LIENTRAP was able to cover

the recent move of PCM Headquarters (the first information Station had

of the move) and to continue photo surveillance at the new site.

3.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, 1.e..,

rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances.

GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for other

Station operations and activities. - 'GERENDE's comprehensive area

knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an

extremely valuable Sation asset for such support activities, GERENDE

also procures and services post office box letter drops for the many

Station operations requiring them.

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded far out

amandag st

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

- 4-

4. The quality and quantity of operational information produced

by the photographic bases and other activities under GERENDE s control

and supervision is considered worthwhile and in some cases unique. The

Station concludes, therefore, that this segment of the LIEMPTY Project

should be continued.

.C. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

As stated in previous project renewals, it can readily be noted that

Project LIEMPTY has provided support to many Station operations and in

this manner has been a contributing factor to the furtherance of the Related

Mission Directive. The project has not produced any positive intelligence

nor has it been intended that it should do so.

The project's sole purpose

is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational information

in support of other Station operations.

II, CHANGES

There have been no changes in the LIEMPTY Project during the

past project year affecting either objectives of personnel,

III. EFFECTIVENESS

There has been no change in Project LIEMPTY which would alter

the validity of the remarks made in Section III of 1960 project renewal re-

quest (HMMA 15979)

IV. PROBLEMS

The security problem in connection with the LICALLA operation,

which was described in 1960 renewal request, is still present but has

caused no known difficulty. At Headquarters suggestion in HIMMW -9736, the

LICALLA base was reactivated on 29 May 1961.

The base operator.con-

tinues to be alert for any unusual incidents which might indicate that the

base has been compromised.

V. PLANS

The Station considers that the project is operating at. its optimum

size and does not plan to expand it during the coming year.

Efforts will

be continued to refine and better utilize the existing project organizational

arrangements. As in the past, the Station will continue its efforts to

improve the compartmentation and security of the project.

630UP 1

SECRET

Exclated tela Estoret

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SEGRET/

- 5-

VI. COSTS

Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project

LIEMPTY expended approximately $26, 250 during Fiscal Year 1962

(1 December 1961 - 30 June 1962) and has thus far during Fiscal Year

1963 (through 30 September 1962) expended about $7, 000.00. It is

anticipated that about $8, 000. 00 will be.expended during the last two

months (October and November 1962) of the project year. This will

make a total expenditure during the project year of about $43, 250, or

$6, 250. 00 under the budget estimate of $49, 500.00.

B. Next Project Year - Of the total $49, 900. 00 budget, itemized below,

. approximately $30, 400.00 should be expended during the remainder of

Fiscal Year 1963 and the balance, $19, 500. 00 should be expended during

Fiscal Year 1964. Normal accounting procedures will be used for all ex-

penditures.

AGENT SALARIES

(Includes Christmas bonus

1962)

$US Per Annum FY 1963

FY 1964

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

Louise J. MACRINO

(at. SUS 2. 02 per hour)

LIEMPTY-4

LIEMPTY-5

(at §US 1. 75 per hour)

LIEMPTY- 6

LIEMPTY-7 (no salary)

LIEMPTY-8

LIEMPTY-9

LIEMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPTY-12

LIEMPTY- 13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LIEMPTY-24 (no salary)

$ 6,000.00

5, 500.00

500.00

2, 400. 00

• 1, 000.00

3, 500.00

2, 200. 00

200. 00

200.00

, 900.00

200. 00

2,

200.00

2, 200.00

1, 000.00

SUB TOTAL

24, 000.00

$15,000.00

GROW 1

Excluded frang ge

downring sad

---

## Page 8

13-00000

- 6 -

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

$Us per annum

FY 1963

FY 1964

Transportation:

Maintenance of MV 2279,

MV 2284, and 2236

Real Estate:

Rent, utilities, and

maintenance safehouses

2, 000.00

*LIMITED

*LICALLA

LILYRIC

3, 300.00

1, 700.00

1, 200.00

Procurement of safehouses,

post office boxes, and renting

of automobiles

1, 000.00

Purchase of information,

Iden-

tification documents, and bribes 500.00

SUB TOTAL $9,700.00

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repali, maintenance and pur-

chase of replacement photographic

equipment and purchase film 1, 200.00

SUB TOTAL $: 1, 200.00

$5, 700.00

$4, 000.00

$ 700.00

$: 500.00

GRAND TOTAL $49, 900.00

(per project year)

$30, 400.00 $19; 500.00

(FY 1963)

(FY 1964)

5=25952-0011a-1

NOTE: LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned to Station by LIMOUSINE

and credited to miscellaneous receipts.)

-SECRET 4

IS. COPY

50-6-24/1

C.0D

Excluded trail aiteratio

- dowagrading and

declassification

---

## Page 9

13-00000

÷7-

VII. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

Emergency recontact arrangements for Oliver G. SCANTLING and

Raymond H. GERENDE are on file in Headquarters (See HMMA 15982 of 23

November 1960 and HMMA 15981 of 23 November 1960.) For further infor-

mation see project renewal request of 1960 forwarded by HMMA 15979.

VILI. TRAINING

No training, other than that within the competency of SCANTLING

or GERENDE to give, is anticipated for the coming project year.

scatz+4789987-20052

E3 13

Grow 1.

Excladet tom cutenall:

Carogrecinz eat

50-6-7411

---

