# 104-10186-10235

## Page 1

104-10186-10235

ni atanks

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thi

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Fornando FLETES Coba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/01228-61

2 October 1961

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

2

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO

PACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACROCtOr 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEPINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service.untsl April 1964,

Headquartors Comments

The following report ts one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency•

it is requosted that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals menttoned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

ornando FUENTES Coba was a licutenant in tho Cuban Pollce

orce and worked in the Confidential Department under Commandes

•Efigondo ALMEJEIRAS,. Chief oi Police.

tha: FUENTES

heard of FUENTES, ne

in Mallins, Canada.

lave fect (ight inches tall and 160 pounds.f, 2,3,1,5,6, about

Headquartors Comments

1. Included with a report dated 27 November 1959, was a

complete list of the personnel employed by the Departamento

vonico de Investigaciones (Technical Department of Investi

gations - DTI) as of 6 November 1959.

Included on the list

was one Sargeant Fernando FUENTES Cobas who worked in

"A," the

responsible for foreign intelligence

operations for the pulicia

Nacional Revolucionaria (National

Revolutionary Police - PNR).

4

1

ECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GBOUP 1

STATE

1018

ARMAY

I NAVY

- REP CINCLANT CINCSO *

-I8NS

"Nore fratl tutribuion indreared by "#".)

TAIR

NSA

INKX

FBI 2

INFORMA LION REPORT

DIL SA EOBiL! NE/5/R

AL'SL LOBILINE

CI/RS 1

13!

SING ORMATION REPORT

ML: SA/CL

141-8112

TOPALE

-IX-1693

1x-1591

INO PROJECT (ASHUGO)

,CSCI-316/01228-64

ICCORDIRATANSTA

MI/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2). CI 4.

RID 1

W1A180N

$ wk

CI

201-265067

4/PV

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEN CSCI-316/0122S-64

-2-

2. An untested

source fave a representative of this Agêncy a copy of'

a list of rovulations issued on 15 Mar 1960 br the National

Revolutionary Police, which came under the Ministry of the Revolu

tionary Armed Forces of Cuba, for the discipline of members of

the Servicio Secreto Revolucionario (Cuban Revolutionary Secret

Service - SSR).

This doeument was signed by Fernando FUENTE Cobs,

Confidential Section of the General Command of the

National Revolutionary Police.

3.

In a report dated 19 May 1962,

and interpreter for the ICAP,

Licutenant Fernando COBAS

1960 when he started working for the Tourist Police, a part of

In January or February 1961, COBAS transferred to the

1.

In a report dated 20 September 1962, an untested source reported

that Fernando FUENTES Covas was with

the Policia Transita (Transit

Police) in the DTI.

5. Another office of this Agency, in a report dated 26 December 1962,

reported that Fernando

FUENTES Coba, & Cuban national, had been

convicted in 1957 of violation of the United States immigration

laws. FUENTES was engaged in forging birth certificates

Cuban nationals to enter the United States as Puerto Ricans.

FUENTES moved to Miami, where he became an

July 1959, he

served as a provocateur in luring an American flyer,

Bafael del

PINO, to Cuba, ostensibly to snuggle someone out of

Cuba .

Because of his success in luring del PINO back to Cuba,

where ho was badly

wanted by the Castro regime, FUENTES received

an important position

in the Confidential Bureau of the Cuban

G-2, and for a time served as chief of the Bureau.

6.

reported that he had seen Fernando FUENTES Coba, described as a

at Port Everglades. 24

meet

7 :

reported on 25 February 1963, that

Fernando FUENTES Coba #as

in Habana, Cuba.

FUENTES was a former permanent resident of the

Born on 21 June 1923 United States from

1946 to 1949,

and served in the United States Army.

At the time of

this report FUENTES was described as a photographer with the

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSE

pd i

---

