# 104-10534-10044

## Page 1

104-10534-10044

Patent.

we 1110a

DB MERO $6585

3 January 1964

4202042

My dna 19/

pacodse3 2o 6027000,

MENORADUR FOR: Chief; vs/ac

And code raae atred vany

MINATIONS C.

290

No: 900610/9

1a s120hde02 65

20107

REFERENCE:

*Technical Analyals of lotter and Eavalope "

DB CASE 14361

wad,

c: 2328. L0ã2, 628 ONC

7m/2 Mano datad 13 Docember 1963

1g Fate wr

attercor.

5190: %

lo In responso to rotemmeull requot, en original tyrevritten. ":

lettar and envelope aldresod to the Antrican Enbassy, Besekholy 0e:

vore erminod in order to deterine the orlein of the lotter and the lara.

nationality of the vriter.

1dS43

digit

- 43

7102529

tra"

??::

The folloiiny conclantonn vre dram concerning the letter

and envelopo:

•The typewriter 1n question is equipped sith an obsolete.

istyle of German-made typo unich, according to our referonces; was

fitted on a number of typomritars made in Germury during the 1920s."

and early 19305. The possible makes would be atowar, Tortedo,

Mercedes, Reinnetall, Uraniu, Orgay Fortuna, Coatinental, Kappel,

Broma, Trumph, Mory and poambly sour othera. Of these maxes,

the Torpedo, Nercodes, Thelmutall and Triumph sure probably. the

most widely distributed.

The nachine in qantion in eguipped with a black ad red

ribbon. The keyloard 10 very jabably Swediah, as shown by two o

itrike-overs, unisutin for typinnind "" for "a". These

thsracters are adjacent on the waniard Swedith keywoard, but not

on the Carman. ta uninta ms not ueed in the stroet address;

4, 12:

"Strandvagen" (thera the dots sunil have been placed over the

this

wecond "s"), This night be nither i simple oversight or an uttempt

to conceal the writer"s tunillarity with the correct apolling.

1 16

"C: The paper of tho letter 15 'of the International standard

(DIN size "A'" which 1a almost universally used in srodes.

JInen-textured stationery trans to be rather comon in Sweden.

The two maller pleces of blunk papor match the letter pozer vith

I.

respect to viath, thicknem, color, texture sod lock-turough, and

were probably cut fron another wheet of the sane type.

the envelope

matches apecimens of Sundinn envelojes taken from DB/5- Postal.

Intelligence files.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DS Hono 16585 - Page 2

di: 1ha latter mn posted from the Stockholm san post office,

witch 1s located In the central ralluy terminal in Stockholm.

All mil deposited 1n stront mull bou's in this arus or in the post

mas, offsee vould be processed through thin etation. i No'i

119

it,?

e.. The cancollation cacut on the envelope 1a Identical In

all respecta (fornat, postmari, number style and Longth of k1ller

bara) to exemplore arailable in our oityce... 'e sonia!

The postage 1a corvect for Suedish Interial mall and the

sostage stamp 1a of current 1a0ue-

A posaible Irregularity 15 the time leg betwen the lateral

dete of the letter, the date of the postart and the date of recelit

In the American Embassy. The total tino from the Internal date of

tho letter to the time of reculpt to ulent days, the tim between

the date of posting and the date of ruceipt is nore then three days.

This transit time of nore than thrus days for Intra-city mail appears

Irregular when campared with the averge trensit time of anty two-

turee days for arrival batween Stoulholy and the United States.

3=

The text of the lotten rummunte acma couments because a number

of pocullarities vere noted - auidu fram nure spelling of typing enors -

rich seom to indicato a Swedish writer, the fOllowing words renesent

eitoer swedish spolling or modification; "reserv", "etablished", "murded",

"Trustjar" Other examples of Sundlah pam and syntas would be:

"met" (as rout tense),

"so soulet" (Smainh forn but not spelling),

artiala), "should" (rathor tam "mula",

"(without inosinita milol" outrmelod" (swlich past

"FBI, USA" (without definite

participle foral, ond hole tan wha" (pure Swedish form).

Ho Anothor siguilicont dotall to the sane given, "Ryo liany Yuan".

"Ryo" 11 not a standard polling in way loon Romanization system used

for Chinete. "?" Is sech in the new Chinena Communist national systen,

but never In combination with "yo", "Ryo" 18 & Japanese spelling- In

the name elven 1t is not known thother the Chinese or kester presen-

tetion lo used, in other vords, whether "Ryo" or "juan" 16 meant to be

the sumone.

Anong Chinese syllahies wiich could be reprosanted by the

Japenaa "Ryo" are liao, Ians and lung. Cl these Lung (IC:7893) end

Jaland (19:2733) are used as Darnt

In either case,

"Hyo" 1s kardly

a nano by rich a real chinen tuna lentity hinself.

So In sumery, and based on this above Information, It ill concluded

that the dotter vas tranmitted via nonal Swadish postal chainols. The

Letter i1 probably a "crunk luttar."

mont thraly written by a stade,

using a swediah keyboard typoritar and Suedish stationery.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DB Memo 46585 - Fage 3

6. For further Information concerning the typewriter and gaper

malysas, and the suedisa style of landas usage, contact kr Jun

Beck an x2009. For further Information ou the spelling of the

ostensible writer's name, you may contast Mi. Gerald Worth o1 x2608.

For further Information regardias the Postal aspecte of thin case,

pleuse contact Mr. Robart E. Hanta on 22303.

1. To original letter and envelopo are being returnad herewith.

ALBIN R- TRECIOKAS

Chiel, TID/DB

Attachrents (1)

Ai stated

Distribution:

OrdE & 1 - Addressee

1 - TSD/GARB/ASR

2 - TSD/DB/3

d - DB files

1 - Pi chrono

1 - Case 4361

TSD/DB/5-PI/RHBanks/x2303/ery

SIC ST

---

