# 104-10418-10368

## Page 1

104-10418-10368

565-235

1 4 FEB 1964

MEMOR

SU315ST

 Leo F

o of Inteatigatten

•Y CONALE

at to the proporation of sur 6861-9/779,817, dated

4 Februry

1904

DI, 100-10461, dated 31 Decethen 1963, file mumber (S) 105-82595,

notti

in the orhject ins came to our attention. Thie

Intem

elved trems yout office in your communication

DEA 59901, dated 20

Becerober 1963. It de repeated below for the

conventence of your personnel tavalved in the OSWALD case.

3. Guncerlag the entry on page 63 ol OSWALD'e address book:

"Ley Setyney - Redlo Moscow

Lee Selyaev

73-65-88 (mort)

Novo-Freschanaya 23/7

Apt, 65",

• report lion your cles, UBA 59901, dated 20 December 1963, unhjeet

Lillie bay RAHM, contalao the follendog information: Annette (neo

ZUGOFF) SETYAEVA, nia Anth May ZUGOFF, ika Aneta May ZUCOFF.

ain Amotto K. HENSINA, bors 18 November 1919 at Late Steveno,

Wasbington in married to a Leo SETYANY nio porked lor Radio bibicow,

Annette SETTARVA, whe uppeare to be the nughter of Litte May RAHM,

ale Lilte May TESLICH, al Lillle May 20GOFT, born & Neveraber 1902

#t Welle Townahip, Michigan, trivelled to the Sovlet Unton in 1935 and on

30 March 1916 became a ditten of the USSR. At least until Jaly 1968,

Annette we reportedly marrted to a HENKIN, (tru), For a number af

yeare Annette has worked as an antonce? in the American Section ill

Radle loacon, Allegedly, eke le the Radio Moscow amouncer Inown as

I"Voncon Molly' who

SECEET

Guana

Excited frog ruDel:

Sargest did

Mases herdo

---

## Page 2

13-00000

"'Moncon Molly nho broadonate en taglian language program, reportedly

containing curprioingly factual and intimate detita of lía et US haseo fa

the Masian Command, ostencibly calculatod to destroy tr00p morale at

thooe bases.

0. Ametto B. 34T YALVA preamably togother with beo (er)

SETYAEV) was reported to be restding at Kotel'aichettayo 1/15,

Gection V, Apt. 79, Moscow, USOR.

3. The 1960 Moscos Telephono Directory lete aK. V. KRENIIN,

tolephone: 5-74789 at the addrese Ketol'nicheslays 1/15. No apartment

ma bor io lieted. There are 10 further traceo on SETYAEV a HENKIN

(KHINKIN). Excopt fer reporte el your ofitce, there are also no further

tances en RAHM or OSTYAEVA

& Yone office all be advised of any further pestinent information.

FOR TRE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS.

figure:

ienos teri

JAMES ANGLETON

CSGI - 3/779.988

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/CI

1 - C/CI/SIG

1 - C/CI/R&A

1 = C/SR

1 - C/SR/CI

2 - C/SR/CI/R (hold cy & comeback cy)

1 - SR/O/US/di

1 - 201-289,248

SR/CI/Research:

_cl 11 February 1964

= Zo

---

