# 104-10121-10009

## Page 1

104-10121-10009

105-4001-M

DATE

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

6 FeD 63

TO

THROUGH:

Chief, Employee Activity Branch, PSD/os

The followin

contact is hereby

BILE • CIA EMPLOVERS

reported

requested

be eftective on

one. time

cont laving basie.

MOM-EVA

EMPLOYEE

ЗАМЕ

NADE

ENT.

7355

EXT.

OFFICE

CDC

OFFICE

NAME

EXT..

OFFiCE

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

MANE (IDON"

MARIACK

TITLE:

- INC: Menker

ORGANIZAT./ DD

AJay

BUSINESS ADDRESS

Pentagon

Dorothe

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

NAME

ENT:

OFFICE

PRONE

Code 21: 8-75085

DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON COMENTS, AND INOUN BIOGRAPHiCAL INFORMATION

Metlack was formerly

the Aray. Nember

on IDc and then becane DOD (nor

DIA) Member; hovever, since 10 September I962 she has been designeted

as the

Arily Member on IDC.

The CDC (CIA Defector Coordinator) chairs the IC lateregeney Defector

Liaison will relate to matters dealing mita defectors, escapee

and refugees and will Include persoual contacts and attendance at meetings

as appropriate

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER

TO BE DISCUSSED

TOP SECRET

SECRET

COME

UNCLA:

DDP/CDC

7355

Dorothy Mo

Wilson

EIT»

Sept 1963 Suntect's số advised.

SECURITY "APPROVAL

2002353

$ 2888.341

Authorizate t

Sia 63 2

individuals 2%

Su?

зb2"

6LASS10i6D

Bluat as

есте

disclosed this:"

ity for disse im

rence of it:

year frozi co

reguest should be gusman.

o for l'a'iss contact beiween. Dan

Tie concuxe

"arpire and

-ed, a writted

A 3 For sa Security

12 25E3 868

Date

Chief, Personnel Security Division

D0S-1808

FORI

10.5

23 USE PREROUS EDITIONS

COSE TORTETAL

- TO CUA

Baorground Use Onty

Do Noi Reproduce

---

