# 104-10234-10424

## Page 1

5-

104-10234-10424

SECRET

21 September 1964

MKHORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AWHIP/1 Meeting, 16 September 1964, New Vork City

This noting was hold

in the offices of XINITP/ from 1000 untll 1130 and from 1230

unt1l 1515.

Lunch was taken at the office.

It 15 noted that

thore was only a akeleton working-lorce in the vorkrooms and

offices as the l6th was You Kipper. The purpose of the meeting

•was to identify one Alberto BLANCO Romaris, who had arrived

on the scene in Madrid claiming to have a message Iron AMLASH/1,

and to provide the necessary defensive briefing.

2. Details of leoting.

Alberto BLANCO Rosariz - Through a telephone call

to AMASE? In Hadrid, AHiIP/l determined that BLANCO vas

In fact "El loco Blanco", who was expected some time last

Bpring to bring out a message from AMLASH/1.

This rested

our minda sonwhat as it had been thought that it was

possible Alberto BLANCO Romarie aight have been a Dol

attenpt to establish the fact beyond doubt that AMLASH/1

was in touch with KUBARK.

AIWHIP/1 was instructed to pro-

coed with caution in any discussiong with BLANCO, and not

to acknowledge the fact that he and AMLASH/l were In fact

In touch with KUBARR.

This restriction could be changed

AMLASH/1 {1108.)

AHLASH/2 - A/2 1s currently staying with Jose Luis

According to ANWHIP/1, GUNZALEZ thO

and who can be trusted to a reasonable degree (at least

to the point of not willingly compro ising AMLASH/1).

SECHET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Callerrotta le a friend of Odon ALVAREZ de la Caapa,

Counselor of the Cuban Embassy, Madrid.

According"

to ANNHIP, ALVAREZ tho was usually known by bie first

name Odon, 1s also anti-Cosmunist or at least anti-

rogine, and can be trusted to the sane degree as

Gallerretta.

ANNHIP stated that Odon had been

Communist for a limber o8 years but during the past

three he had turned against the rogine as a result

of what it had done to Cuba.

AWKIP stated ho had

heard that Odon had had this change of heart: from

may people.

€.

Vice-Rector of the University

of Havana.

LUis SOTO AndraCMHP stated that he did not

Then queried,

know SOTO, who was mentioned in the operational traffic

from andrid as being fully witting of AMLASH's plans

(this according to statement by Aéberto BLANCO in Madrid) •

ANYHIP stated he thought he kne a Lude SOTO but did not

recall any detaila about the man, nor could he identify

this man with the Subject Lute soTo.

d.

A Letter from Jose de Jesus JINJAUMA to Carlos

CARRAGA.

The letter In question was recelved by ZARRAGA

Iron JINJAUHA, stated that certain dissident and ri

marily DR typos vere ready to take action against Castro

provided their personal saloty and future means of subo

sistence were guaranteed. It named ANHIP/l'a friend

Marcelo (Marzo) ARTIME Vega as the channel for trans-

mittal of these guarantees. ZARRAGA, 'é recalled, 1a a

fOrmer JURE member who had recently resigned.

The people

' Involved in the letter, in addition to JINJAUNA, vere

identified as follows:

Captain (Inu) GIRON,

Luis FERNANDEZ de la Camera (member of Fidel's personal

body guard)

Guillerno (B1111k64)

GArCIa RIESTRA

AMLASH/1

TODY CASTELLA

Faure CHOMON

In diseussing the letter with AlWHIP/1, he stated that

1t was quite likely that this letter was legitimate and,

WhIle JINJAUNA might bave naked for such guarantees, st

was unlikely that AMASH/l would have himself required

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

3

of ANWHIP/1 and AMLASH/1, ANYHIP/1 my be allowing

ANLASH/1 the benefit of the doubt in this case.)

ANWHIP/1 stated that he knew all of the people is

the letter encept Captain (Inu) GIRON.

He stated

that it had been quite likoly for JINJAUMA to write

to tallerretta as they had been, as were all the

othors nentioned in the lotter, bet pen nembers of

the old VIR group which functioned as a counter-

/terrorist element agalost Batieta's first regime circa

AHIP stated that.

In lact, Fidel Castro

Say himselt had been e momber of the VIR.

AMWHIP further

stated that there was no deubt in his mind that Fidel,

mowing these men as he did, was well aware of their

antagonlan towards his regime.

Other members of the

VIR which AWHIP/1 could recall were as follows:

Maria DAPICO Antonio

J'andel's Herminio Mar

(friend of ALMEGEIRAS)

Laureano ALVAREZ (presently Ia N.Y.C., Tol: Ludlow

8 0209)

Armando CORREA (presently in Miami)

JesUs DIEGUEZ (presently in llani)

two PARSONS brothers (presently in Miami

Othor date unknown)

ZARRAGA of course vas also a member of the VIR. ANVHlP/1

stated that the most influential menbers of this group

were or had been JINJAUMA, Fernandes de la CAMARA,

B11l1king, and possibly karin DAPICO.

AMWHIP/1 stated

that these people were action types and ore reasonably

clone? knit no far as thelr loyalty to each other and

in turn the organization as concerned.

AWHIP/1 was also asked to elleit from AMLASH/2

any information which the latter might have concerning

Cuban officials with their hands "in the till" or other-

wise knocking down on the Government and/or putting money

away in foreign banks.

3. Finances.

KUBARK business.

It was thought, by the wany that l 51000 or more would have been

SESTET

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

he 1a reluctant to accept noney for

his servicos or for his expenses inc:rred on. KUBARK'& behalf.

He did admit, however,

that he would probably again be touched

for a "loan" by AMASH/,? and as he laughingly stated these "loan"

Fa habitually

(Brush torever. "e also estimated that the

marious transocelate pione cails he has nde in his behalf, the

expenses he will incur in entertaining AMASH&, Roberto BLANCO,

UNSNAVU/19 and others will easily exceed the $500 he has been

advanced. A aigned receipt as obtained.

d. BecurItY

There were no incidents of a security nature to report

a stated above.

there were very leg people in the offices due

to the faet that today was Yon lipp

Alberto

WE/SA/EOB/HHAPRON

SEGRET

L

---

