# 104-10290-10057

## Page 1

104-10290-10057

JANE SCHIELI

Ut! • 0C1

? 5ök

.4 DRC 83

awI pum ",

: BONE 1785615 48 BEb0%

irel. s.iP.

CLASSIE'ED MESGAS

SF-2FT

12.80

RISUIING

i.i"ll ws.

Ti:

i. mnn i?

#DEC51. 19 452

noe it ina a"..

iri.

t roscos'f

oie y on?

ti.o. tri,

wrt

NOOTINE

CPIR

JUNI

86811

FORN

PRAN

FisiLA NID

*KAR RAST - AFRICA BRIEP

¡ROPOTIE XI ALANTS, MUMAIHIVO INPO RELEAGERTE TÓ

d .

INAQ: //SHARP COMPSTITION FOB POURE IS RALFERING

MAAX NE

IRAQI FIGIZ'S ATTANPTS TO ESTARLISN ITIEL PIRTT./l

I/ANTI BAATRIST ARMY OFTICERS AFE STILE UNRAPSE OVEE "R R01W

TAT BAOTISTS PIGT IN THE REGINE. A NOH RAATHIST FANIC

t n Tale

COVYAILIT I FESSIS FOR FEDUCTION OF BAATHIST ISPLULICS

AnD. POa

TILE ARRIST AI THIAL OP LRADEIS OP THE RXTRINIST BAATE FACTION. 1/

!/PICHABLY AS A MISTT OT THIE FESBIRE, BAATUISTS IIL

ILIHSIATRD FION IY FOBITIONS IS TEI IMTELLILICE ASD BACESIFY

SISVICKS, A: INY ARMY DEPUTY CHIRP OY STAFY HAS SAEN AFPOISAND, ARD

¿ JUDEN DE ARMY OFFICERS RETiROD. iI

V'AE ANTY BIYOAE CONSIDSASÜ WTIL MU 184S ARIP BAD. BEEN BBOUGET

TU SIAMAD TO COUMTER TRS INPLUENCS OF TAB BNATATST-LO dE DIVIgIICR.

icionpinarias

1'**

1979181

't ne trrgesi dm a ee sini t ee

SECRET

*21 0om g 'do thng-1*

prr1801.70.0fp.ss

REPEOOUCTON EY CAGR IMAL INA DSUNG OERICALE PROMIONTO

• E1A11%, aPIae

Cosr Ples.

---

## Page 2

3:1

11

DrECTOR

I DEFERREO

Risis:

INFO

CITE DIR

-PACE TO

16?11

WHICH HAD A MAJOR PART IN THE 18 BOY COUP.

TAKES HAS BREN 1O

UNLESALE FUNG & MATRISTE IN THE BOUT, SON COVERAISE SPONSE

BBIEBRATE THE WIS THAT TES COUP DAS NOT DIESTS AGAINST ANY PARTY. 11

PIRITI AD VICH PRESIUIT HARR, NEI

ORITIES ARE DI

ASKIN FOR GRADIAL

RUPTION SP MAATSIST COMROL AND FOR CONTATION O BAATU

POLICIES.

FIRMITT 16 AURO PESOME TO SE PROTSCTIN

BARTEISTS I

TESTED BY SECURITY OVFICIALS. 1 1

'TES ATIL AND FARNIER TARIE VASTS ARE TATING TO MAINTAIN

I RECTRAL KAFTION: TAHYA ANTIBVEE THAT THE I

SA BITUATIOE MAY

-3.

SYRIA: //POLITICAL TENSION IN SYRIA HIS INCIRASZE CON

SIUBRARLY DIRING THE PATT THRSE DAYS AND A COUP HA! ES DEVELOPING.

BAATEISI PARTY JOUNDIES APLAQ AND BITAB HAVE ABKED FOR VISAS TO GO

ABROAD, WHILE SEVIRAL CONTURVATIVE IRADERE HAVE EKEN HRASED FROM

CUSIONY.. THESE ARX ALSO ISDICSTIONS THAT ATTKUPTS ARE BRING MADE TO

003T BAATHIST VICE POKHITR CELERAL VEIRAN. // (COUT)

i. RAN: !!THE IRATIAN COYINRET CORTINUSE TO BE CENCRENSE

OVES AGEDLY RASIBIST ON FA BATHIRE ARITATTOR, ASSO

6:288844498744

siicis

DEPRODSCHON SY ONER THAt:

IME ISSUIVE OFFICE IS PROMIBIRD,

Tini, lie.

---

## Page 3

GUIRONW

8 N3

30

O RAN AL

BARGE HAT ARAB

NATIONAI

FACETEYY

FECSIVINCIOUTEIDE SUPPORT. 1 1

//SAVAR, THE IRANIAN SECURITY AND INRLLIGENCE ORGANIZATION,

ERPORTEDLY ARMESTRO ABOUT LEU ARAES. IN RHUZESTAN PROVINCE ON 36 NOV,

AJD TAR ROUNDUP IB CONTINUISE. LOCAL ARAB DISSIDENT ACTIVITY HAS

APPALINTLY BKKH NURE CIOSE TAICK SUS SONS TIE, BUT THE LANG

NUMBRE OF ARMISTS ATTARS TO FAVE BIEN OFFERID FROS THERAS, DACKE

TARRE IS SN ZACGRRATID APPREIRNBION OVER ARAB "UNITY" CYRATS. 11

(CORE)

#, TURIEY: PRIDE MINISTER INUNO'S COALITION COVERNHENT RE-

SICILE A DEC ASTEN iT SONINS OF UNREST AND INSTABILITY.

XBORT'S RESIGNATION WAS PRECIPITATRD BY TIK DEPSAT OF TEE TWO

MINOR AARTIES IN HIS COALITICH PY TER CURSITION JUSTICE AUNT (SP)

IN THE ENCEIT LOCAL BIBCTIOYS, PRESIVENI CURSEE HAS ASSAD INCHUS

CABINE TO STAY OR UNTIL AJOTHER CAN BE FORMED. AFTER ICONG'S

FIRSI UALITIDN COULAPSE IS JUNE 10G MARLY A ISORTE PARARD BAPORE

MÉ YAS ALLO TO POLE TOGETARA 1 USE COVREMENT.

BORE LESS CONTROVERSIAL SIGURE MAN US LOSEN IÚ IND THE IRAN

THIS TIXE. DISCUSSION OP. A HER COALITIQN AS CETTERED ON TIS

AUTHENTICATINI

SECRET

---

## Page 4

90.1

MON: 01712:12

CONFI

100519462

MASSEEN

& MITINE

10

wi:! "ix

•RICE FOUR.

DOSSILILITIES--A "TATIOTI" COVKRIYEET SICIDING MARLY ARR DARTIE,

Fall.

BEAR A SUNDOTE OVER TEE QUISTION CY INVIGITT CYPRUS: CONTUTION:!!

PUR ISIT: MAKANTOS HAS FORARLE GIVE VICHIE

TEB BEADER OF THE TURNIN CONUTTY, A IRANIA Die

16LIVE EDIICATION OF CONSTITUTTONAL PROVISORD: TRICH TE: TU

RIED AS GUARARTREING THRIE MINORITY BIGGIE. TUNEE СУУРОТ

SUPPONTED EY TAS TURFISH GOVERNIT, BAFE CORIXSTBRTLY RE-

JECTED ANY BUCH INDIFICATIONS. / 1

(PEATARIOS FREVIOUALY INDICATIO THAT EL ULTILATBLY BIGHT ACT

UNILATERALLI TO CONVERE A CONSTITUSIORAL ASSEMBLY IP THE TURKISH

COMMUNITY REFUSES TO AGIKE TO HIS BASIC DEBARS.

ES INSISTE THESE

ARE BANETIAL IF CYPRUS IS TO HAVE A FOREÁBIE GOVERNMENT. / /

I/THE LIBADY STRALUT ULATIONS BATUKER GREEK AT TURKIES

¿SPRIGTS TILL DEZERIUBALE LARTOLT IF SAFARIES ADIUMARE EUTRO TO OVEN-

RISE THE TURKE' OPPOSITIOY. ROTA GRIRE AND IURIOS CONCUSITIES HAVE

TROUS IT ET

FiB. CATS

---

