# 104-10069-10359

## Page 1

104-10069-10359

ONCLASSIFIED

INTERNA

SECONL

COM DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET.

SECRET

JUBJECT: (Optiono!)

Current Address of Kaurice Halperin

FROM:

Chief, Cortact Division (Support) Stuntz

TO: (Off. cer dosignation, room number, ent

building!

DATE

RECENED:..

PORWARDSO

EXTENSION

2258

CHHOE S

INTIALS

3.

4.

5.

Live

WH 729

131. DEC 52,2

mEnts (Nuubm each comment do. shen from wh

to whors.

om a line paross column after each commer:

I am sending thie to the followi

1)

TEW

SR/CI

CI/LN

Security

mago

so stunt.

7.

10.

file the

whet tie.

WH729 =

12.

13

15.

ORM 610 SOMENOUS CO SECRET O CONFIDENTIAL.

C0 N1 - 7.29

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

3 UNCLASSIFIED

# 09254

---

## Page 2

14รท00000

SERNET

0043) 3,246.933

W SYRO 18060

27. Dec

196217

subject: Current Address of Maurice Helperin

A source of this office has Just advise us, tus ne receIveu

a Christnas card (1962) from Murice Helperin on which the return addres

our source have: know each other for a number of years and they always

exchange Christmas cards. This is the first one Helperin has sent vith

& Cuban address on 1t. To last time that our source saw Halperin we

In Moscow when he (the former) vas visiting In the USSR during August-

September 1961 as part of an official U3 delegution.:

2.. In vlow of Halperin'a past activities and associations, we ere

making this Information known to you.! Our source coments that Helperin

always seems to show up therever there 1e some sort of activity, going on:

mend"

CIA INTERNAL

SECRET

BIH-121

---

