# 104-10124-10198

## Page 1

104-10124-10198 45S| FIED

ANTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

IDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Request for Name Traces from Office of General Counsel

03

TO: (Officer desigi

building)

1.

OSB

room number, and

Mr

Mr.

3.

5.

D/S

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

'popt thet

25 TAN74 CSP

1/25/44 K

0/4 8

28/749

DATE

COMMENTS o fine oct o column to eh on a common

to whom.

DEADLINE:

COB 25 Jan 74

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DO NOT Reproduce:

or signature

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

RAA

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

11-90000.

23 January 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

Mr. L

J DD/O

Director of Personnel

SUBJECT

: Name Traces

1. The Office of Munitions Control, Department of State,

telephoned and asked if the Agency had any relationship with either

the company or individuals listed below. These people are currently

involved in selling helicopter parts to the government of El Salvador

and State feels this may be a "flimflam" operation and wants to offi-

cially notify the government of El Salvador to warn them of the repu-

tation of these individuals. Therefore, State has requested us to

search our records and determine if we have had any relationship

with them.

a. Joseph Raymond Merola, DPOB: 9 October

1925, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;

NR

b. Henry Meirhoffer, a Miami entrepreneur

who was involved in shipping B-25 aircraft without

a license to. Biafra during the. Civil War in Nigeria; and

NR

c. The Patterson Corporation, lists two addresses:

7855 Ivanhoe Street, La Jolla, California; and 3016-B

South Halladay Street, Santa Ana, California.

2. You are requested to check the above names and respond

by COB Friday, 25 January 1974.

Loden X Meancy

PHN K. GREANEY

Assistant General Counsel

---

