# 104-10169-10208

## Page 1

104-10169-10208

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107' Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

B-68-101

F/ERa 9795050

80U-80-68

26 Ap588 1988

FITCEROS, DONABLE COOLACE SATVICO

laputy Dirartor, sos

CaJor, HOustos Offloa

B188 lood, A-cas for Sla CArrlios, Meblaz

Laguiries la Dallas

uge 3-68-121

Jin 8100ro that du tau been visited recally by a Bill noos uho vas

B-4P-10/ MakIng lovestigaElode la balled fur lue Orleans Blotel

"luciritiola ggo vas legutring shout sia CIA dad lee oporationo.

Accuruing tu fochertib, sill "dos unud to vork for gu ladiuidual named

Glynae üricht, subllabor of sha linensen Irllung, (Rocherael said spo

LUNE TO NOTE TOS JLIA CArTIION UNLUT AlIN liMO OE Dill DoXLoy. "CLocherel

also told Moora that liood 1a vell kuans in louston and shat bla contes A -136757

Bloa vIch GITILuOR la DO MUCrAT.

•A13625₴

This le the fleet that uo hive hestd Ichardeny this matter.

en suro the sulject 1e the sana illularence cood, Joge uto vlolted

the Houston cilice curly la 1017 voluntcuria; hla servicez. do that

5-136252

ELms liOod calU hO las lxccutiva VICe lECEideRE And EUlEOr of tha Moueson.

TEunG BLIShLO CoSpERY, a local weckly paper. You may recall chat

No wars latreased with ond'o encority, la voluntcored that ho bad

voried for the djency and that blo rusdinacion haul licen roadily seceprod

becaura he had developed a uriaking problez.

Do also sald ha had nos

coilsuned a drop of alcohol for ly youre end bad bold novoral responsible

Joba pilos to Jolnin, tha llouston Istbuns.

He raquanted a namocheck

clearunco which was recalved I flar 67 follorad by an "yca Alono" seno

containiaz edvoruo inforantion. daenuso of chia no dropped liood as a

poccatial courço. le have not heard iras him sinco 7 12- 67, the last

¿ina ha volunteered bla services.

The Clynur Wright mantloned by

Rochormal la tha preseat publihar of tho Iriluno: Altbough ua buve so

contact ulch cha fillune, tie current luiror ol cha papai, Hasola co pylo,

ln reporiod to bo an exceptionally tina ladividual. la retired frou the

Houston Chronicly after many yours with slas paper and jolaed the tribuns

315s HooTe saya Rotliernall has nothing tore so add regardiaz Hood.

Is there 1s need Los decalla regarding liood'a seputasion iron the Irlbuna

Coque, +1'6-68-121 (lue termed + 171380002

no bolseva 16 vill ba posalble to outala tha datoraation diacreatly.

BENNOT AO BISCHE

Matt: 12.

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduos

1/90

---

