# 104-10182-10121

## Page 1

104-10182-10121

Л: СЕНА ЛіК 9

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNVENT

dir..

FROM

SCOJECT:

2 4 AUG 1959

Chief, 1H1 Division

DATE:

lI. Iliotiy C. Do I00n 1521, jarton liall

Act no depaty sirector a securit; (investiga lo: " Suggort)

I00S, Herman

# 100,000

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

1o iteference is liade to jour nanorandun dated 23 July

Do Not Reproduce

1959 requesting that tils office identify one into, (Fms)

who allegedly was registered in the naldorf Astoria, dew

jork City approxirately 3 July 1959.

2. Attached is a report of our Investigation of this

natter.

this case unless requested or you.

This office costerplates no a-litional actlon 1n

Іманнац

red hi.

Attachmert

Ept itd 13 bug 59

TRANS TIAL: SLIP / LATE

TO:

ROOM.

Q. A 3/AC

REMARKS

This just came through

- locks

lette Wenßell ans

felling the truth

03

i.é...

SEChEl,.

FROM:

ROOM Mà

1026 59 241

TChb

PUlL DING

EXTENSICA

I/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ATTE

SECHET

1108: 1962

My°.

: isothy CO:0, Rooa 1021, Jarton Hall

Acrudó Deputy Diractor of Security (Inreatigations & Support)

L00E, Herman

#100,000

• Referenco is made to your menorandur dated 23 Jul

959 requesting that this office identily one LOUS, (ima

who allegodly vas regiatered In the Valdort dotoria, lew.

Tork city approximately 3 July 2959.

2o Attachod 18 a report of our investigation of this

matter.

FOi THE DIREETOR I SECURITY.

Pred H. Hall

Attachment

But dial 13 Auz 59

SEGRET 141

---

## Page 3

SECRET

546 948936 381

OFFICE OF SECURITY

Support Division

REPORT

OF

INVESTIGATION

sturald te

reurned when le has served its paspare li

rentence d soniano muse Dou de dischred esceps to ClA

veral shall no be asprinduced in say manner whatever

aretense shee peave appeutal of the Crace ol Securey

CONSISTING OF

_1_ REPORTS

SECRET

1:41

---

## Page 4

SECRET

"FILE NO.

100,000

DATE 13 August 1959

SYNOPSIS

several indireduals bearing mine sure as sullet

vere reglatered at the Hotel valdort Astorte durlas perlode:

close to the first week of July 1959. One of these Individuals,

hoverer, was registered before, during, and subsequent to the

first sreek of July 1959.

TORS NO 1125

REPORT NO.

SECRET

1.41

€ 201

---

## Page 5

SECRET

¿Case to 100,000

GENERAL:

14557

At New Tori

Tort

On 13 August 1959, JOSEPA GIARY, Director of Security, Valdort

storte Hotel, was intervieved st his office, and through him contact

vas made with MISsM. F. CULLITON, Adsistant Credit Manager:

Miss

CULLETON caused the guest.files to be searched, and she provided the

folloving Information.

One -HERME

was registered at the hotel betreen the dates

2u June and 2l July 1959; hta, address is 7200 Colduater Canyon Drive,

Jester be hotel be en the detes su and Ne 1959-

fron layne, Indiana was

Mr. and Mrs: GEORGE N;

between the dates 21 and 25 June 1959.

Pittsburgh; Pennsylvanla, vere registered

This; It was determined that ERRYAN _

was the only individ

arlig the same surnune as the SUBJECT who was in residence at ti

waldort Astoria during the first week of July 1959.

JIMCE/ bob

SECRET

1

---

