# 104-10120-10063

## Page 1

104-10120-10063

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

TRAVEL ORDER

NAME

TITLE

OFFICE PHONE

2566

OFFICIAL STATION

43200 1122 55 1941

RADE AND SALAR

05-25 €20,000

2

ipe oftion (chiel F2)

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary

Agency Regulations:

FINERAY JUTal esthoriood Eros Harbarbar, to

13-3

expenses In alcoralice with

F0J.

Concadal?

PURPOSE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE AFFROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Lejendents of estjoct nuthartant to travel conustl. Milo,, partly la, dunchter

00 Ibe oss baggs entrariad in lion of moanyented basingu.

any enem travel tims to be chenged to loure and noy areas cout to be paid by en

I SCARCESSE NitE A145-1050, Only 3,000 Ibs el personal end houschole elfecte sey be

sipped sue to nbipping rostelotten. All alfecto set atipped up to the sixter alloved

los the crado, suy be iteral at torerset expensio

¡bipat el parson validle entarrined.

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE

J OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER CATARANCH ORLANATHE

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance

ESTIMATED COST A TRAVEE TH 705

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY.

CERTIFICATION (BY PROSE PAGEANCH)

Certified a Irue Copy. Signed

1711TEL 0/5

copy on file in Central Procesg

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

MORANgER gRIER SUED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

necessary. Amended as indicated.

(B)

SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

THE GOVERNMENT.

SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OF MONE SANFWANGA TESTER FLOPE HETE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT POR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF

TO CAN NEEN WHICH NO WERE LIONS OU ARE ON RE PRO ANE TORER AGENCY LY, VOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODE, PER-

TRAVETS AND SUPERE IT AUBROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

FETES ROUTE ONE ARE DING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE PAMILY,

HOUSEHO

GOODS, FERSONAL

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

Lay stoma

(DATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

FOM3127*SUPERSKO PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 31-27, 33-28, 34-4 34-69, 865. 36-207 AND 37-80 WHICH MAY MOT BE URED.

# U. E. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE! 1052 - 230611

---

## Page 2

23500

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER. NO.

TOUCRIKE

TRAVEL ORDER

8 April 1954

NAME

OFFICE PHONE

TITLE a Ey Boward Blant

2566

OFFICIAL STATION

12:2

4202221 55/AC

0515

$10,800

SI mbritted

Dpa Offloor (Chiat FP)

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Regulations.

ITINERARY

TRavel autherised fran Unsho Dol. tol

13-3 Tros.

PIRANDAR: WIT

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Dependents of subject anthoriaed to travel concurently, WIfe, barothy lis daughter

Any «coss traval tima to be charged to leave and any excens cost to be paid by em

player.

shipped due to shipping restrictions.

for the frode, may be stored at sovermant expanse.

Saipment of personal vehicle authorised.

Standard Elk Fos orders required (nacla

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

J DD/P

OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER CHORE OPEN 3A Merr

Maximum per diem allowanco is authorized in accordance

LETIMATED COST OF TRAVEL IN J252

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

$

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

CERTIFICATION (Y PROd NUDANCH)

Certified a Irue Copy. Signed

artival 0/5

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary. Amended as indicated.

==

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(B)

SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

THE GOVERNMENT.

STONECKE

THE CHANGE OF ORENSTON INDICATEST PECTOR METEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSOMAL CONVENIENCE.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION,

TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSIHOLD GOONS, PER-

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERBONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM

POST

OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

3/go

Kay Sherman

#(DATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

SAMNd3/35-2y08

UPP

* IT 1951

SUPERSEDIA PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 83-27, 83-20, 36, 86-44, 86-5 56-207 AND 37-60 WHICH MAY NOT EN GENIUS)

# U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1082 - 890611

---

