# 104-10439-10043

## Page 1

104-10439-10043

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVEINMENT

TO

: Bruce Is Solio, C/RB/SRS/OS

DATE: 17 December 1959

FROM

: M. Do Stevens, RE/SRS/OS

SUBJECT:

KAMIN, Victor Potrovio

AT 2752 = SS0-90097

A review of Sabjectis filo has been made in connection with

a request fron the CI Officer, French Desk, with roference to

Information from thel

that Subject's Washington

book store, as of the sunner of 1959, was one of the four book stores

In the Undted States where subscriptions could be bought for "RODINA"a

the bulletin odited by the Repatriation Committee of East Berlin,

"RODINA"| (LA PATRIE), which is distributod in varzous Languagas

and 1s railled In sealod envelopos, has been forbiddon dietribution

In Franco. (See attachod thermofax.)

Security filos raflect that in April 1957 the FBI advisod that

Victor Petrovich KAMKIN, Elena Andreevna KAMKIN and Nina SAPELKIN

had been the subjects of an Internal Security - R type investigation

as of 1951 and that:

"There is no derogatory

data of a subversive

naturo in the files of this Bureau concerning the subject of your

inquiry (KAMIKIN) •

It should be noted, however, that Victor

Petrovich KANKIN is currently of irvestigative interest to this

Burgau and, accordingly, it is requested that any contact of him

In behalf of the Central Intelligonce Agency be handled by this

Bureau. t

It was advised orally that the Bureau was using KAMKIN

aS a BuurCe.

According to an undated blind memorandum (possibly a Staff C

A25 Sar Wine monoranciam), Nina SAPELKIN is Elena KAMKIN's sister and as 0i

ChuRCh

HOREK" SAFROM

iN FALLs 1951 was Living with the KAMKINs in Tennesses, Nina SAPELKIN was

175% k

19is wotan

born in Russia 13 August 1912; and was evacuated from Shanghai to

... Saner, Philipping Islands under IRO auspices in April 1949,

14.D.5.

accompanied by her husband Semen I.

She care to the Unitod States in 1951 and lived in Tennessee for

& tiro with the KAMKINS.

The SAPELKINs reportedly renounced

Soviot oitizenship in Shanghai in September or Octobor 1948.

The KAMKINg alao were born in Russia and KAMKIN attended

high school and univorsity in Harbin, Manchuria®

1945 he was in the printing and publishing business in China; and

during 1946-47 says ho was with "Special Services, Section II,

Marine Corps", working on Its newspaper, "North China

Harina. In 1947 he

was Co-publisher of "Free Word" which he says

was an anti-Soviet newspaper closed by pressure of the Soviet

6:02.61

---

## Page 2

13-00000

From 1947 to 1949 he stated that, he was the owner of

the "anchor Printing Shop" in which the "North China Marine"

continued publication in Tsingteo, China.

The KAMKINs came to

the United States in 1949 arriving In San Francisco in Marche

As of 1957 KAMKIN was being used on an unclasaified basis by

tha CIA Ilbrary asa publications procurement channel.

It is, of

course, possile that Subject's interest in "RODINA" 18 on behalt

of this Agoncy.

The othor book storos Involved in the report to the French

Desk were the well known Conmunist "Four Continents Book Store",

(MS-2000), "Imported Publications and Prociucts" (MS-2001-I) and

"Undversal Distributors Company" (#91916).

These organizations are

registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act.

Continents Book Store is flagrantly Communist, noeds no defining;

and the "Imported Publications and Products" is reported to be

one of the four principal outlets for Conmunist political prop-

aganda in the United States.

"Universal Distributors Company" 1s

doscribed as "an official distributor of Communist Party Ilteraturel

and as "Comunist controlled". It is the distributing

agency for

the Four Continents Book Store.

Information from a reliablo confidential Infornant reflects

that during the summer of 1959 KAMKIN indicated he plannad to

opon a branch book store in San Francisco to be operated by S.

The store was to be called Znanie,

Fussian Book Store,

and located at 5237 Geary Street,

San Francisco®

SAPELTIN,

in all probability, is Mrs. KAMKIN's brother-in-law Senen I.

SAFELKIN, MS-5000, who with his wife Nina,

nee DAVIDOVA,

DAVIDO! (The wife lina, per the check shot, resided at Fouts

subject of an FBI Record Check Request in May

I, Van Icer, Tennessee from 1951 to 1952, which was the KAMKIN's

address during this porlodo)

The 1955 FBI Record Check Request on SAPELKIN indicated that

he was formerly a painter; that his wife Nina was a dentist; that

both were born in Fussia; that ho arrived in the United States

fron France around the end of 1954, was stateless and had his first

papers and that she arrived in San Francisco 5 June 1951.

were residing at 1405 Harvard Street, N.Hes Washington, D. Co

which was the

address of Subject's book store); and had formerly

resided in Tientsin and Shanghal

Both their childron

were burn in Tientsin, one in 1946 and one in 1919.

An RI

check requestad in 1957 for USIA Indicated that the name

Semon I. SAPFIKIN appeared in a report from a reliablo source in

May 1950, which dealt with refugees in an IRO camp at Guinan,

Samar, Philippine Islands; and,

according to the report, ho had

been a member of the Resian Rosidents Association (probably Russian

if

---

## Page 3

13-00000

End grants Association) and of the Soviet Club in Shanghai.

An ONI name chock on KAMKIN, In November 1954, roflocted the

cruss-referencing of his

name to "Foreign Servico Dispatch, Hong Kong

#402, 22 August 1952", the subject of which was "Contact

of Mr.

Verd ends VASILIEVITCH

SAPELKIN with the Hong Kong Consulate Generul";

while results of a 1957 "f" check basod on this sans

Service Dispatch, Hong Kong #402, 22 August 1952, Secret",

reads as follows:

FM5®

SAPELKIN raported that he had recontly

received various communications from a White Russian friend of his,

Mr. Victor P. KAMKIN who was formerly head of the Russian Emigrants

Association in Teingtao, China.

Fir. KAMKIN left China early in

1949 and has resided in the United States since that time.

SAFELKIN and KAMKIN reportedly had certain contacts with a Eugene

CORDENEV, Russian-spealdng officer attached to the Go? Section of

the Firat Marino Division In Mentsin following the Japanese Surrender

In 1945. Mr. KAMKIN has now written to Hong Kong asking Mr.

China an

Mse KAMKIN

indicates that he le Involved in certain Intelligence activities"

[in a letter of 13 July 1950, offering his services to ONI, Subject

named GORDENEV as one kho could "substantiate my work in China".

ONI advised CIA that their records contained no derogatory infor

mation regarding Subject, but that ONI did not contemplata utiliz

ing his servicos /

AeoP.

Hols

Subject's friend "Mr. SAPPLKIN" may well be Mr. Vardandn

tons Vasillevitch SAPELKIN, the Subject of Hong Kong Dispatch, #402,

baer obtained, uno in all probability is relatod to Mrs. KAMKIN a brothor-in-law,

ARE

Samen I. SAPRIKIN®

Sane individual.

MOS

According to & 1955 RI check conducted on one Alexander So

11460

MORIOFF for G-2, a report of 17 May 1950 advised that ORLOFT (ino

had been described as an "Old Soviet worker") was closely associated

with Verdamin Vasilievitch SAPELKIN, an alleged Soviot agent at

the IRO Camp at Sanar, P. I.

As reported above, Mrse KAMKIN' s

sister Mna and her husband Semen SAPELKIN were evacuated to Samar,

P. I., fron shanghat under INO auspices in April 1949.

Vendand Vasillevitch SAPELKIN's friend URLOFF, according to

a report of 8 April 1950, was alleged to have influenced a district

loader of the IRO Camp at Samar with pro-Soviet propagancia, and to

have worked with a number of other pro-soviet internees in the cam

to Sovietize the Russian refugees interned there. According to a

report dated 5 May 1950, ORLOFF allegedly was believed to be a

Soviot agent. (The report noted that this information originated

in the IRO Camp in Samar; that much information originating there

had proven unreliable; and that the reliability of this particular

Intormation had not been determinedo)

---

## Page 4

13-00000

However this may be, it appears that there could be much truth

in the allegations.

Information in Sacurity filos rerlects that

ORLOFF very possibly is Identical with a "Count ORLOFF of the

Russian Cormittee", (apparently a committoo of Iio), Who assistod

the Commercial Counselor for the Bulgarian Legation In securinz

IRO employment for one Bogdana OTTAI, a possible Soviet agent in

Paria who was living with and was engaged to marry KirIl VASSILEV,

who was belleved to be an agent of the Bulgarian Military Intelligenco

Servico.

"Count ORIOFF"

also helped arrange OTTAIls entranco into

the Unitod States.

ORIOFF and "Count ORIOFF" may well

be identical with Alexander ORLOFF, DI-2881, a highly suspect

Individual of Russian birth, and a

former AMTORG employee

security disapproved by OSS in 1943. This latter individual, per

a 1943 OSS investigation, was known as "The Count",

A Dacembar 1954 Staff C memorandum regarding KAMKIN, reported

that unevaluated Information dated 1 June 1948 indicated that one

Victor N. KAMKIN was Involved in a money printing transaction with

the Japanese, In which he used the machinery of the Chihli Press

in Tientsin to facilitate the countorfitting.

The source of this

information had pointed out the possibility that Victor No KAMKIN

might be identified in some way with a V. P. KAMKIN who was named

as a charactor reference by one Vladimir Vasily IVASHKOFF.

was not idontifled.)

(IVASHKOFF

The memorandun advised that according to a

report dated 1 June 1948 from a U. S. Naval. Attache, Nanking, to

the American Ambassador, Nankings

V. N. KAMKIN was a printer and

publisher in Shanghai and later was in charge

of the Russian

Publishing House, knowa as Nashe ZNANIE. He was closely associated

with Bernard S. HOGARD of the Chihli Press, who in turn was

associated with alleged Soviet espionage agent Olga NAKVASIN.

According to the Staff C memorandum, a report from the FBI

datod ll August 1953 indicated that a source of unknown reliability

statod that one Victor KAMKIN, who operated a book store as a

possible cover in Tientsin, China, acted as a paid informer of

the Japanese during World War II; and was a paid informer of U. S.

Army Intelligence aftor the War.

With the assistance of the

American Military Goverrment in Tsingtao, China,

he became Chairman

of the Russian Immigrant Society In Tsingtao In 1948. There seems

small doubt that this Victor KAMKIN is identical with Victor No

KiMKIN,

and with Subject, Victor P. KAIKIN who was fomarly head

of the Russian Immigrant

Association in Tsingtao, China, accord-

ing to his friend SAPELKIN,

as reported in Hong Kong Mispatc

#402. Note that Victor N. KAMKIN was in charge of & Russian

Publishing House in China known as Nashe Znante; and that the

branch store Subject intended to open in San Francisco (and may

also to he called Znario (this work in Pussian

means "Knowledge")

Bernard S. ROGARD of the Chihli Press, referred to

- 1 -

---

## Page 5

13-00000

as a close associate of Subject and also of allegod

aspionage agent Olga NAKVASIN,

Is the Subjoct

of SSD file #35095.

ROGARD is a former U. S. Marine whose

parents were Polish-born and who lived in China for

twenty yoars prior to returning to the Unitod States in

He allegadly was pro-soviet, ie:

Russians who did not avail themselves

of Soviet citizon

ship made available to them; hired as Editor of his

Tientsin Evering Journal, following its resumption after

the War,

one Leoroff tho was an employee of TASS;

followed a Commurist inspired line in his newspaper;

and published without comment in his Tientsin Evening

Journal a letter discrediting American Military Police

In Tientsin, comparing them unfavorably with Soviet

Military Police In Harbin who ware praised in glowing

termaz otc.

ROGARD, "If used" by Project PILIAH,

was to be limitod to Category II; but his wife, Rauza

Ibragimoff ROGARD, #79069, had/

MrS. ROGARD appears to have had

for

1953. Her association with the

J since

was terminated in

she gave l

Yay 2059, with the tomination of Project ABUNA, but

a "hard time" for months and refused

io sign her secrecy agreement until 30 November 1959.

Kirs. ROCARD appears to

born in Russia of Russian-born parents,

nationality; left Russia in 1919 for Harbin; was

educated in Mukden and Tientsin; and was employed in

Tionisin in various import-export firms, etc. (No

thorougn study has been made of the ROGARDS: files.

l4-D. Denu

M. D. Stevens

0S: 5253/94:41c

- 5-

---

