# 104-10176-10012

## Page 1

104-10176-10012

"And.

RETUANTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

(hon Falled dog

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS. REFERENCE

SLEJECT CE DOC-WiST

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICA"ION

Intelligence - DS-2072 Debrief'io

Peports

19

517

• 82

8

RI FILE NO.

DISPATEN CA SOURCE DOC. SUMBOL

[E1- 072076, 8 7, 2b,46,

24,46,:

27 Beb

EvALUATION

TO: Chie. FE

Ears Chiat

ATE PROCESSED

SO. DISSEMINATED IN

18. DATE

COCUMENT DISPCSITICN

CP CHOSE DEFTEREO TO POIS TILE

LOSERSO

PE-TIGENT INFEQNATION

1.

Trensmitted herewith are three (3) autostat conles of sreliminery

reports fron the debriefing of DS-2072. These reforts

ere drafted

iron the tape recordings of

the cecrletings and written up in

their present form after

additions end corrections te: been made

SUDSEQUert InIOrma

son. and fr

sane instences rechecas with DS-2072.

21

These reports were not the

besis for DS-2072 Field Interrogation

Feport Fo.

1, wnich hes been previously forwarded to rou. That

report nas conciled fron earlier drafts of the reporis forwarded

We are inthe process of revising Field Interrogation

Report No. 1 end Interolating nateriel contained 1r

attechments to this di patch

deels nith topics zot covered

Interrogetion Report 10. 1.

/s/ Robert C. Dewien

Intelligence Officer.

.... I3. 6-7

08

(pg. 2 para 2: Source described the following intelligente operation:

of which he hed some knowledge, either personally or tarougt

hearsay:

1. YOSHINO, Matsuo

YOSHINO was first suggested to Source as

A Japanese

language teacher by local Soviet citizen VOEVODIY, Yefim.

LOSING

then became source's agent until source Left Japan (Dec. 1946) - hen

YOSHINO was turned over to NIKISHEV, K.I.

POPOV became the

controlling officer after MIKISHEV, and tien turned him back to Source.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. .

SECRET

•• * 867

Адро

---

## Page 2

upon his return in 1950 to japon. YOSEITO submitted Inforration concern-

the rew Soriet zitizens

businessmen in Jepen.

Ing the 100s1 RuSSieN'YOSHINO has three sub-sources:

and the Russian Jewish

(1) OKA (code nere) painter at Johnson Air Force Base

(2)

TOKADA (code neze), draftmen at Tachikswa A1~ Force Bese,

(3) MARUYNA, engloyee

of Customs office in the zore of Kobe.

In payuent YOSHINO receives 30, UuC Yen fer nonth from the sor Mis, o1

maich he gives 5,000 Xen to Or and 5,600 Yen to TOKADA. Als

contributions here not considered of grest value sno besices the Sovs,

Eccording to Source,

that he ras also

"ere

elweys suspicious of YOSHINO.

It' ass known

agent for the

Jerarese Police.

YOSHINO works for

the Shinten Enterprise Co., erd it was

source's chinion the: TOSHINO

es Instructed by both Japenese

ard American Intelligence to gather

m111tary information concerning Sakhalin men he made a tristo

SENIOLIN LOI

the LorDany (1n 14321

ILDHINU naG

ine SOVIE

Fress,

but nes dismissed from

this

cosition after a disecreezent wit

EURAHASHI, head of the Soviet Press. Despite these

suspic case

YOSHINO

es retained upon Instructions frer.

the Center when reports

"eve

received that YOSFINO was stringly anti-American.

24.

Source expressed doubts bout the interrity " on

three agents:

"SOV" (see para 2,r) YESHINO (see parg

2, 11 and

FUEVODIN,

xerim docel Sovier citizen

and jor. Agent who is suspected of

working with IS and or Japanese Intelligence.

PE. 40

4 Feb 54 Interview - Trellrinary Corraction by Source

.... para 8: Emergency Plens:

SOURCE stated that the orif MVD

emergency

Intelligence coverage as encodied in the ECONOMIS and

TATEKITSU stay-behind nets. YSHIty's "Ife's brother (written In nota-

cIon reads

TAKA), probably a member of the JCP, had allegedly beeb

recruited by YOSHINO

at the cost or 5u,.00 xen, but scurce cannot assert

the valldity of this operation.

The courier 13 a bookkeecer, code neme

"TAKA",

the Kisen MiRU, shich at one time went to Indle,

but he is now perhsps on

another ship piying between U.S. and Japan.

"TAKA has hever been activated and reusins a. paper asset oniy.

---

