# 104-10419-10002

## Page 1

1104-10419-10002 -

9 December 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. John K. Greaney

Associate General Counsel

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

SA/DO/0

: DriverCase (Mail Intercept) -

Church Committee Report

: A. OGC Memo 76-6704, 29 November 1976

B.

DOJ Letter,

22 November 1976,

Same Subject

1. The reply from our CI Staff in response to

your request for a review of the Church Committee

report on HTLINGUAL (pp 561-636) is attached.

Included

in their attachment are copies of several reviews of

the Senate Select Committee drafts as presented.

2. The DOJ asked in Reference B if the facts in

the proposed stipulation are true.

We call your atten-.

tion to the CIA Staff comments that the material is

essentially correct as far as we are concerned, but the

Office of Security as well should comment.

3. With regard to the DOJ's request in their

letter to provide any documents prepared by the CIA or

other Government agencies which show the Church

Committee report is inaccurate on the mail opening

spects, we call your attention to Pages 3. 4 and 5 01

the Cl Staff comments Review Staff Document 76- 0264).

Speaking for the Directorate only, we do not believe

that this is what Justice is seeking. Briefly, it

does not appear that the material in the report

that seriously flawed.

The comment's are addressed to

the Select Committee report

with

different pagination

than the final version available to us. If you wish

to make this material available to the DOJ in response

to Reference B, we have no objection, although you may

wish to get the concurrence of the OLC who now is

responsible for this material.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 012860

SECHET,

'inv

---

## Page 2

13-00,000

-2-

4.

Briefly, to recapitulate, while an extensive

review of the Church Committee report may show certain

errors, in our view the errors

are not substantial and

do not materially alter the facts in the stipulation.

We would appreciate an opportunity to rerier

your response to the DOJ in answer to Reference B.

Atts.

0/SA/DO/0:MASovern: kaw

Distribution

Orig &

(1542)

1 - OGC

w/atts.

1

- C/CI (HTLINGUAL)

- EO/DDO

w/att.

- C/ISS

wo/att.

2

- SA/ DO/O

wo/att.

SECHET

---

