# 104-10228-10050

## Page 1

104-10228-10050

CLASSIPICATON

TRANSMIIIAL

OF

VOCS INFORMATION REPORT

tic. Berbara ramunds; 6J

"I SAE/Intel/Reportg

148, 5547

DATE

24 6pr11 1963

CONSTANCE COPIES

SAS 10

INFORMATICRE COPIES

C1/OPS, CK/IC, FA, PI/D, FT/INT 6, IW 2, CA 2, SA/PEG

DATE DISTRI SOYED

21 A2511 1963

DISSEINATION

SAS/R

3 DAS/ SI

SAS

Indi

2

SAS/ WAVE

1

i Prete

SECRET

18 5 1265

TDCS DB=34654,313

PRECIDENCE

ROUTINE PRIORITY

PASED ON (AD. 0P1., M0s.)

WAVE-7550 (IN-23917)

UFG- 2724

NP (ANOT -20)

AVAI

REQUE TEC

STATE

HANGURE ASTRUCTIONS

ARICI

HIAVY

AIR

THIS IS AN EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB (STATE ONLY) MESSAGE.

EYES

ONLY FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.

CSDO:

PREVIOUS TRAFFIC ON

THIS SUBJECT RES GONE TO THE DCI.

RECOMMEND FOR EXO.

NO FOREIGN DISSEW/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSE ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

SENT ELECTRICALLY TO THE WHITE MOUSE SIP ACCA, BRATE (FOR HUOMES), AND

POI (FOR THE ATTORNEY REMERAL, RYES ONLY) SEEN AT THE REQUEST OF 9A9.

AUTHENTICHTING OFFICER

COORDINATINNE DEFICER(S)

CLASSIFICARIDNN

SECRET

MAMEN ALLED INS

199 1

RESIA ME PRIMOUS PONIONS

+09-10-10-8791

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DATE

• 24 APP 53

DIRECTOR

FROM , UMWAVE

ACTION

SAS 10.

INFO

OR, ALDA, CA 2

A0/612, AD/NE, s/e 2.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

20

SECRET

PA-Pressis

ROUTING

APR 21: 88385Z 63

ROUTINE

IN 23917

YOCS

DIR CITE WAVE 7558

• INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMDT-28 FROM .1.A. HERNANDEZ, VICE DELEGATE OF FORDE

TO THE CRE.

•PES NOTE REVISED SOURCE DESCRIPTION. FILED 24888380Z

REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY: CUZA

SUBJ: REPORT ON SOME OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 22 APRIL MEETING

OF THE CUBAN. REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

DO1: 22-23 APR 63

PADA: U.S. 23 APR 63

.UFG-2724

APPR: 3

SOURCE: OFFICER (F) WITH FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITIES IN AN ANTI-

CASTRO ORGANIZATION IN EXILE FROM JOSE ANTONIO HERNANDEZ.

IN COMMENT,

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OE THIS CADLE HAS BREN

BRADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PEMOIMO

BEL CASE BE THE ACTION UMIT.

TDCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTID:

BASED ON:

UAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

#INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

intormation

mooN: 111 10000.

'emerson: 990 806.0n0z0 lame Pillo 18, WSC Soro

-LISFICATION - DESIMIRLATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED MISER DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY

CUBA

REPORI NO. TDCS DB-3/651,315

SUBJECT

ROCEEDINGS AT TRIT NIK!: 196.

DATE DISTR 24 APRIL 1963

MEETING OF THE C.566 65:0901iS:1R1

COUNCIL

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

22-23 APRIL 1963

REFERENCES

IN

23917

TDCSDB-3/654, 291

UNITED STATES (23 JS2 195:,

TDCSDB-3/654, 292

3

FIELD REPORIN2. UFG-27'24

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMALT SCURCE CRADIS; ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS YENTATIVE.

OFFICER (E) OF AN AT AN "ICANTZATION IN EXILE, FROM JOSE

ANTONIO HERNANDEZ.

TO STATE: NO DISTRESSIC: SCEPT TO MR. THOMAS L. HUGHES.

1. THE MEETIN: OF THE COSEJO REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANO (CRC,

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARE THICK; WHECH CONVENED EARLY IN THE EVENING

OF 22 APRIL LASTES DiCE 10U A.M. ON 23 APRIL.. ANTONIO MACEO

MACKLE PRESIDED AT SEE WILL, BUT WITH THE LiNDERSTANDING THAT

HE WOULD SERVE IN SEE CAPIST ONLY FOR THE TERM OF THE UNDERTAKING

AND OY THE STRICT CAPING AC KNOWLEDGE OF HIS SERVICE NOT BE

NADE PUBLIC.

2. JOSE ANTONIO 26401:072, WHO ATTENDED THE MEETING AS A

VICE-DELECATE OF ISE ERE! & JERERO REVOLUCIONIRIO DEMOCRATICO

-.. .

CUBANO (FORDC, CELY FELT CIRY DE ICCRATIC WORKERS' FRONT),

CIENTFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREI."

DiTSi:: /CONTROLLED DISSEM

dong: 93018-9036

A-ZAD/FACKGROUND USE ONLY

MOCCO WANTON

SO JOCTO ANX MEXICE RUSHE

Senses bonect EXO

DDI

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT I TELEGRAM

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE T.:

HOUSE SIT ROOM

TATE (501) (FOR HUSHES)

PASS TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, EYES ONLY)

FORM I! CRADLESS SREVIOUS EDITIONS

(13-70)

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICATION- DISEEMIRATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM!/ CONTROLLED DISSEM/

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

23917

TOGS DB-3/654,315

PACE 2

SUGGESTED THAT THE CRC HAD FULFILLED ITS PLACTIONS, AND THAT AT

THIS POINT THERE WAS NO REASON FOR ITS CONTINUED EXISTENCE.

3. MANUEL ASTONIO DE VARONA LOREDO REFLIEU IN REBUTTAL TO

THIS SUGGESTION, STATING TILAT IN THE PAST TWO DAYS HE HAD TALKED

TO CARLOS HEVIA DE LOS REYES GAVILAN, WHO HAS BEEN ASSOCINTED WITH

THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA (JURE, REVOLUTIONAZY JUNTA); RAFAEL GUAS

INCLAN, A BATISTIANO; LONBERTO DE LA CARIDAD DIA%, AFFILIATED WITH

THE PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANO EN EL EXILIO (PRCE, CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY PARTY IN EXILE), WHICH IS A PACTION OF THE PARTIDO

REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANO- AUTENTICO (PRC-A, CEZA?: REVOLUTIONARY

PARTY - AUTHENTIC); JOSE ALVAREZ DIAZ, FORUER ADVISOR TO JOSE

MIRO CARDONA; AND CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS, POSHEP. PRESIDENT OF CUBA.

VARONA SAID THAT ALL OF THE ABOVE HAD ACRED TO HIS PROPOSAL THAT

MACEO DETERMINE FROM OFFICIALS OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WHETHER THE

GOVERNMENT WOULD• SUPPLY THE FUNDS NECESSARY FOR THE CONTINUANCE OF

THE CRC. VARONA ADDED THAT HE HAD TOLD THE ABOVE INDIVIDUALS THAT

IF THE CRC CONTINUED, THEY COULD BE PART OF IT. VARONA CONCLUDED

HIS REBUTTAL BY STATING THAT THE CRC SHOULD PUBLISH ITS REASONS

FOR CONTINUING OR LIQUIDATING ITSELF, BASED ON THE ANSWERS WHICH

MACEO WOULD GET FROM "THE U.S. OFFICIAL."

4. THE BULK OF THE MEETING WAS DEVOTED TO SPEECHES BY.

VARIOUS DELEGATES SUPPORTING THE RECOUMENDATIONS MADE BY VARONA.

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S- E-C-R- E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN/NO DISSEN ABROAD/ BACKGROUND USE ONLY

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION COSTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSEM/

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCSDB-3/651,315

' 23917

PASt 3

5. FIELD COMMENT: THE 1:00 P.M. NEWS REPORT ON CHANNEL 4

IN NIAMI REFORTED THAT MACEO HAD BEEN ELECTED INTERIM PRESIDENT

OF THE CRC. THIS REPORT WAS CHECKED WITIL JOSE ANTONIO HERNANDEZ

AND MARCELO FERNANDEZ, THE SECRETARY TO MACEO; BOTH DENIED THE

ACCURACY OF THE NEWS REPORT AND STRESSED THE FACT THAT MACEO HAD

PRESIDED AT THE MEETING ONLY AS AN ACCOMMODATION.

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATIC FEE-N-E-SY CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN/SO DISSES ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONZY

---

