# 104-10164-10036

## Page 1

104-10164-10036

SECRET

COUTING AND RECORD SHEET

HNSTAUCTIONS

PRICA TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect. 2

Destroy tront cover sheet, unless i reoords

ngalca i acton laken or comments requir-

ing pretertation

- TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il blo no and atle shown are not proper.

insert proper lie no. below and forward

document to RID,AN.

FROM:

PROPER FRE NO

HID/AY 5 C

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FHL IN SECTION I ON BACH. IF APPRORMAVE

COMMENTS

206 sout t SK/O/W'E

GARCER NAME TRACES INITIATED

PACENED

WE /I/N

13/5 711

BY RID SENT TO-200/1/N

3.

WE/1 CHRONS - DETACHED

SR/RR

1=4 to this?

NY TIMes artcle on the

couple is attached

SRIO/WE

RID/AN

pem

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

this dressant th

+01-194288 e

RACH RSIT

17.

RID/TI

Maker

AUSTRAEI

1N08*

181/1712e8

- 01-114231

E5423 4/4

imes

1 1/3R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

NCh1os, ME

Caler, SE

OChled of Station,

SECRET

14 - 4

ACTION REQLALD - REFERENCH!

ACTION:

For Your Infor

•ec1on and Traces

IX!

PROCHSING ACTION

MARKED FOR IDENTIS

HO WIDERING MELISS

ПАСТОРІ!

Forwardod herewith 1& a

_report from a seaman

who unile In Odessa on 2 April 1964 had a five hour conversation

wIth one No111o BLOCK, hos husband, a diesel engineer, and daughter

Ilm. The report will presumbly be of Interest to ODENVY• Iraces

are requested on Subjecte. The 20 April 1964 1esu0

•1 the New York

pun too a cone so are a beaten

Attachment:

Oтід & 2 00 •1 герое, /w.

Distribution:

2C/SR w/1 00

1 ee att.

atte

/Eul

CHOU RAPINCH TO

CRUE

Turger wo

Awe; 1148: 010

deel:: 1101c01000

•A COPY

22 [оной! 17708

SECRET

(Ri/miss Su 1896 fr tenno

(My e4) returned to

the н.5.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use On

Do Not Reproduce

201-174231

DATE

14-2 7/4

19 April 1964

HOO PHA AL

25(04-2-911

1. 5/BG

---

## Page 3

SECRET

ODE: 330

AprIl Z, J9EA

Case: Nooting will Amariean fasily EluCk.

1 tomortan seaman bho was in ODESSA on April 2, 1966, had

diffloulty in Ilnot the elty a largest hotel.

searchi,he was approached on the otreat by an huerican-speaking

woman, Mulad 1:lUCk, to offered hur assietance.

she was with her

husband and duurter and told him that they wore American cittens

who had lived, anung other places, in Bronx, low York, but had been

11ving In Udessa for the pant four jeure.

The following decribea the occanion in greater detail:

The nource was Bu the Incerelub (seamen'a club) in Odessa

where to tried to buy hussian caviar. He was referred to the

hotel Udessa.

A hostess at the club said that there were tho

hotels by that name in the olts.

He was to go the the largery,

and she explained to him how to get there.

The souros triad to find the hotel but not lost.

Twice he

asked Russians but was not understood.

The las% time was on the

"boulevard. "

Juddenly a woman's voice called out in inglish from

the other aide of an adjoininy street, whereupon she came over to

the nource followed by a man and a young girl.

In fluent Amorican

whe anked the source 1f he wre English and said that her husband.

and daughter were American and living in Udessa. Without any par

ticular cause both she and her husband complained loudly about con

ditions in Odessa without any dunsideration for passers-by. The

Russiang to whom the souren had addressed himself stood around a bit

before they want further, othorwise there did not appeer to be anyone

mao notiond the meeting particularly.

The source explained that he

was on hin way to the hotel vienna and Invited the family to accompany

him. They refuned st firat boonuse they were not dressod well enough,+

they had come fom work, had lunt picked up their daughter and were

on their way him,

when the nource insistod, they allowed themelves

to be pursundad.

there were no formal introductione, bug during the

conversation it cano out that the family wun called BLUCK and the

wife'a fires name was MuLeIl.

201-194231

Motel Cronna was 100ntnd In the vicinity in a aide

ntrees whigh

Jod-oft frum the boulevard, at the entrance to the restuarunt they

worn atopped by a miltruen do protested in suesian.

After sorm con-

vorsation betwion Mollle and the waitrone they were allowed to enter.

Molide anan the waitroom hail thourne the duurhor won too young but

hed siren in because the datetier was in the company of has liarento.

The are the fatest vase lan monto as of dad or

Excelt 6(260087-081058

and some alvillane laddie as coffee mone who julene, roo their

Eng sf4

22

23

........i

21BR

---

## Page 4

SECRET

. -?

beberior, vero prosestutes.

iveryme wis alcaly creased, eonsliering

Ekat 1e ms musia, so che Elick farily's reservalia seemed to MaTe

had a beals. a anitr-so shoned the source and nia party to a lable.

to lse ass-tant of the bloce farlly as moll sa the source, the

mieress spoke uncerstandable indish, tinic were ordered and the.

source usd his quests sal in the restaurne for sbout 5 houre. do

thay cid earlier on the boulovard, the couple sole. frooly and elmout

baslae car that the conterstion ss not overheard by schers, al

the closent table sal two prosticu as no sere entertained by devoral

different officers.

It did not appear that thoy vre interested in

the source's party®

The source guessed lüLlIS DIOTK'S ano to be about 15, inall and

plump. Corpletely black, slihtly curly hair mich hid her eara. lark

(boo-clack]) eyes.

the was on the whole quite numetly

bu1le with short fat liabs and quite mict-ractive. jarce foll Lhat

she zight be a Jewess with some slavic backpround. she appeured intelll-

gent, culck and effective, hectie, vory egocentric and somewhat doin

atingo

she was unusuelly talkative but a poor listener.

she apole

perfect huerlen and, as fur as the source was nble to judge, wich

• New lork accent, and possessed the quick humor which is typloal In

hen Jorio

she was dre:sed in a tailored coat of a greenish colour»

worn dress of poor quality, thick woolen stockinge, flat and worn

#h08в.

N5. BLOCK (ils first name was not mentioned) might be between

4045. About 183 em tall, slender, blond hair.

Colour of eyen not

right be of Baltic descent.

Appeared to be passive and not

particulsrly intelligent. He spoke little - possibly because he wes

interrupted by Mollie as a rule.

Spoke definitely American but 000

"onally found 1t difficult to find certain words. He wore an old

"Ixpence cap, & faded scarf and an old worn cout of grey and dark prey:

herring bond patier which be did not renove in the restaurant.

Ine daughterig firat name seemed to be TINA. According to 10111

she res 19 gears old. Comparatively tall and slender, black hadre

large dark eyes, fine features with a sliphtly crooked me and

somewhat sharp nose.

She appeared pretty, but the source could find

no peal family likeness between her and either of the parents, Vorg

ch11dish.

spoke only Russian and kupt to Mollie the whole time..

hone a dark burgundy-coloured coat.

Molite sald that the whole ranily was born in the U.3.A. and

and montly lived in the Bronx, Nuw York, but also for a time tri Jun

Transisco.

About & years ago they had moved to the Joviet Unlin and

11vod in Odessa.

They were stall american cittions, The souran n

pressed nia nitoniohnent at the Inst that thin ma ponalbln, mui

Mollle reluotantly told thit he. lock had been a member of the for

Moden Amerioan Conmunint Party and that they had therefore pollen a

vas La che soviet Unton.

hhen the mource doubted that they anuid dt111

no Amrienn oltinono, tomile nald that their passports wure in londow

• seet which anyone could estaulla by racerrina do che imarion donmal.

Amarlenn inte 9y, liter togayionakt irest 1% nongon. dune Mmute dow

---

## Page 5

SECRET

the address ans are lt to the aurce.)

mortly alter their arrival in dense they renlised thie thin

was not then they mad expected.

they incedtatoly began applying to

Musslan authoricios for persission to retum. the applications had

been returned with various comments, taually that they hal to yo to

other Russian authorities.

1.18 had gone on for soveral years without:

riving any results.

they had aliost restined themselves. jut If they

21323

wire ever to retum to the l. j.de, they would settle quietly down

soneplace and not tell anyone that they ha: been in the sociots jovie%

endon.

M. Plock said that he was a "diesel engineer" and the conversa»

tion revenled that he krién a good deal about diesel machines, ile did

not say where he workod, but complained that he was sent from job to

Job without being able to concentrate on a special ar:a as he had

done in the u.3.A..

As a matter of fact this was an eror in all of

the vorking. life in the soviet inton, he said. No one specialized and

no one could do a real job in a particular area. ir. Block earned

something over 40 rubels per month.

Mollie Block was a teacher at the polytechnical institute in

She eamed 40 rubels per month.

A chief at the polytechnical

Institute work earned 90C rubels per month and had his oun home

ty the flack Sea, she said bitterly, as an example of the fact that

the class differences were as great in the soviet Union as in the U.3.A.

Both told that they were unpopular among heir colleagues and among

Fusalans in general because it was their custom to criticize conditiona

In the Soviet Union.

Had we not been American citizens we would have

been sent to Siberia long ago, said Mollie. Both despised Khrushcher.

Conditions were no better now than under Stalin, they thought. dow there

was corruption in all areas. Mollie said that unly 3-44 of the popu

Lation of the soviet Union were accepted as mombers of the Communist

Party. No one got into the party without having worked hard to do so;.

but 1l one 18 the sou of a Party osticial (pamp) it 13 easier to do so.

In the beginning the lanquage had been e difficulty (in spite of

The faot that they obviously must have had a knowledge of luesian be.

fore their arrival in the Joviet Union.) "Russlan has too many synowyme,"

Mr. Block kept repeating while they talked about the lanquuge.

On the other hand they had been fortunate and pot'en a two-room

"partment for 19 rubele per month.

It did not come out how, for axample,

the kitchen was suipped, but they connidered themenlves lucky in

comparimon to Husslans in comparable roattione.

kollle weote.row. the..

address: PusTOrChoY POLanI 18, APT. 36, UDilla - Ua31, and the source

mao amited to violt them or to vrite to them.

The sinner vacation thay had apent in a little resort town in

the rioinity of DATUM.

There the food - partloulnly fruit and vores

tabled = was much chenper and better chan in dinosa.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

Is. mock corpiained particulirly s' sut the food in diessa, de

has difficulties sith his sipestion tecause of the black treas, he

clated, It mun not possible to zet nuite br ad arywhere except

In Leningrad and. oscon ard shere where forein turists siayed. de

has porten a physician's certificate saying that he needed shite

broad, vut to no avall. :here wis alsa a shortare of iruits and vege

tables in doesse except when they were in suason ow. the surrounding

agricultural districts.

Transport of such wares from distant places

das the sovlet union did not occur.

They talked a great deal about the U. 3.A., and the source said

that there was no doubt thit ¿ollle was locally familiar with jew York.

On one occasion the source mentioned the place lecharken in connection

with New York. Nollie corrected him instantly, saying that iechawken

was on the other side of the ludson liver and therefore In the state of

New Jerseye

The daughter sat quietly the entire time and stared straight ahead.

Upon boing addressed politely by the source, she giggled childishly.

It 1e possible that she understood something, but she answered in

Russian via her mother and said that the source ought to come home

with them and sce her parrott..

Mollie asked several of the people at the hotel if they might get

caviar for the source, but with no result.

The source and his guests left the restaurant at closing time

(midnight local time).

in the street ir. block tried to get a taxi

for the gource, but could not get one. Afterwards each went in his

on direction.

•SOURCES COMMENTARY:

The source was aware the entire time that the meeting might have.

bean franged.

However, he found no real basis for this.

Ho ma also awaro of some losser Irragulartion during the event,

but those could easily have had a natural explanetion.

The nource emphasizes that they asked him for no favors or asked

him to do nothing except vialt then. they showed no curdosity, amled

little, and "ollie wns too occupiod with what she herself had on her

heart to lioten und undorstand what the source said.

The couple had

no reservatione about sicohol and did not. roaot to the fact: that the

nource drank little and remelnud sober unile thuy gradunily became

quite animated.

SECRET

201-194231

F02-9

1/8

---

## Page 7

14-00000

WMDT MOST LET

U.S. COPLE LESNE

soon Gare Then Asy

Wea is How Denies

MOSCOW.

pet listed

Misas to ins L'ened Stales ess-

сали

lee

L'sion as

CONVINCE COEMATIALS

turt

bitranse

Mashoned

mani to go bocce

Malim.

bring in

Dj':

8 it

urned dous their reques!

MACLE BEO MILA.

explanation.

maling

ber

applicalan,

Block piended Liat luerA

п'ете

permutted

feltn

ahe

would probably acter

ber parents armin. Bhe sasl

hey

4Р8B

seriously

121

8€

years

old.

with a heart

atment and that her

mother.

bund in one eye, was in danger

of losing her sight altogether.

V.A. Offietnis Hopeful

United States consular

offi-

eins have enken up the Blocks'

силе

with the Foreign Mintalry.

AMERICASS RETURS RI'SSIAYS' VISIT: James C. Melenzie, second from right.

and his sife, left, flank J1r. and Sir. Vitor Pozdneyer and daughter after arriving in

Moncow' by air. At right is Ronald McCown of Portamouth, Ohlo, who helped arrange for

Pordneyess to sisit McKenairy lunt Christmar and McKenties to see Jay Day Ir losçow.

The

officiale said loday

that

they

were nopetul the

couple

pled to Moscow and appled to applications in the hope thatland, he traveled to.the Nether

would get perminsion to leave.

confirmed

that

the Uniled States Embassy' fur the Intervention of the consulate|lands with the sane passport.

the new

Blocke

They had valid papers Identl:

passporta.

The

embassy had to consull

wild bring a reversal of thenfter having altered the date of.

ying them as American cil. Washington. Early last year, a soviet decision

expiration. Later in 1938, off.

decsion was made. The embass

clats continued, he obtatned i

Int

the Unlted States Mr.

ibnued & new passport to

t.3. Expinin Hety

Block was alleged to have been

Block and issued to Mr.

Block

Speciat to The Hew Yer Times

passport by using the name and

Involved in a number of passport & document stating that he was

violations

for

which he might an American

citizen.

United

WASHINGTON, April 28 - Samuel Bluck,

birth evidence of his brother,

States

be tie troute the met in d

Armed

with the documenta today

that

Mr

troubles started in 1957 the

Blocks

applied for

Sollet "long historge

official had

sald

Block

When the

Blocks berar to

when he traveled to Communist)

exit visas in Odessa last aun- flcuitles,

of passport dif: make citorts to return to the

but

that

China

There was no answer

as & citizen United States from the Soviet

in

deflance

of

a State mer.

un ne was entitled to

their help in Unton,

Department ban. He was later

mlleged

to have attempted

ipite of dosens of viaits to the getting out of the Soviet Unlon. basay was instructed

the United States Km-

to Police by Mrs. Block.

His

difficulttes

to make

Then, a few weeks ago, Mrs natd, In 1857, when he went when

they every useful effort to get per.

mission

for

then

return

ravel abroad on an altered pass Block was told by the chief of 41 other Americans from an In- home. Since every citizen is ene

5016

and, on another occualon.

have

the passport

division

the ternational

youth

festival

fraudalently.

obtained a passport Odessa pollor that their requeal Moscow on a lour of Communiat

in titled to

diptomatte and

Con

sular

Block tells

had been retured.

#tory:

Mrs.

they

Heft

the

thel.

United

States

1959.

Lant week they renewed that Chine

protection

abroad.

0881™

clais said.

August, 1958,

they had "no niter

in

Mr.

Block

otticials native" but to asalat the Blocks.

crosned the United Btates-Cans

lian

border under a false name.

eston watcommi

Anawer Never Came

Then the Fincien rottind dow

to walt for the anawer which

previous trip

Ared

in which

onttle

wanted

They Were Intermed

Mut things noon went wrong.

Poland,

where they ar

rived without a vian, thay were l

interned in a

nonnand hone.

Chinese Embansy

tri

never

acknowledged

WEr.

thalr

10n2n

The United Biales

tried

them

Blocka

telephone

After

about

calls.

month

and

Cha

Hoviat

Fimbarsy

the couple and thef

adopted

daughtar

rollah

Army

drivan to the Movie leer,

Moscow, the Formlan Min.

mit thous in a

#randing to Mra.

falselt.

Government, mall fry

thos

Poom and their monin and ever

Mave them chungo dor Inutdonial

04141

He, Mlock went in the Chinen

imbaray and

appliar

fur

Weal

daylium"

Ching

the regular

thin

macapta

warding de so Poling,

that

they

could

not go on living at novice dov.

arnment expense indufinitriy

They reckled to myrant suvat

asyle, slice had heel no

amith

Block

had heen

a locke

In a New Yorle ahipyhrd

The

#oviet

offtolal mumsented

that he

go to wuth in luo mune

The of

THE NEW TORR TIMES

ney, the

Blocke

were

given

two rnam

anertinent

and

1,100

stilloo

(01.100) 8 huy furnitue. otto

ankart tonm

whether they

wanter

lo

Enviet nitie

hesinning

Mut Mra, Binsk, Whn

WAn

have

thoright.

that

Maotdine.

, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11.1961

anir.

wyery, very unharpy.

Ma Bavure ilesellailed

minded comminal,

To a ine

inlore

slide, lie denounced Amar.

mimi and

Belling down

in the

WAH,

Alnastinfle.

with hle

dale

• will garty oll

Wound, and found artilen.

authorilla reapemathie fe

---

