# 104-10054-10051

## Page 1

1104-70054-10511

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO

Chief, Wi Division

XX

INFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

chief of Station, Mexico City

MICROFILM

Project LIMPTY Progress Report/February, March and April 1964

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: For your information

Reference

: A.

HMMA-22944, 20 February 1964

B. HMMA-14793

BACKGROUAD.

The LIFMPTY Froject is designed to collect operational information on the

LIMERICK instailation and personnel, as well as targets of opportunity, through

stationary and nobile photographic coverage.

In addition, the project provides

the means for investigating leads from the above noted coverages as well as other

• Station sources.

LIMPTY supports other Station operations through the renting of

safehouses, providing and servicing post office vox letter drops, conducting counter-

sureillances and Investigations and performing related tasks.

2. OPERATIONS - REVIEW.

The Station feels that it would be helpful to summarize at this time incornation

previously reported to Headquarters (see paragraph 3, reference B) concerning the

photo basehouses under this project and thereby give

Headquarters an updated frame

of reference in which to view the roles of the various basehouses.

The LItIseD and LILYRIC basehouses provide coverage of front of the LIMERICK

installation.: Although on the surface it may appear that these to basehouses

provide duplicaie take, this is not the case.

It has been the Station's experience

in running the unilateral LIEMPTY operation that a 0900 to evening workday, which

would be required of a single basehouse in order to cover the LITRICK target

effectively, is just too long for any pair of agents to remain eifective.

This is

especially true when it is considered that these basehouse operators are essentially

unsuperrised during their workday.

It would also be impossiole

for a single base

house to provide the kind of coverage the Station needs on the target installation,

especially during the peak hours of activity, namely late morning and carly arternoon

(continued...)

Distribution:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANU MUMUCH

HEMA-23543

CLASSIFIGATION

SECRET

50.6

DATE

74

30 April. 1964

PHOS FILE NUMAER

50-6-74/5

PAGE

COPY

NO.

$ 9

19117

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NO.

HMMA-23343

For these reasons, the LILYRIC basehouse generally operates from 0900 to 1400 or 1500

weekdays.

LIMTIED operates from 1200 to 1800 or dark (as the daily situation

dictates) on weekdays, and 0900 to 1400 on Saturdays.

(These hours are subject to

change to fit Station needs.) Special coverage for Sunday is arranged on a need

basis; however, past experience has shown regular coverage of Saturday afternoons

and Sundays is not rewarding.

This schedule provides for both basehouses to be in

action during the peak activity hours of the LIMERICK target.

Although even this

arrangement is not completely airtight, anything less than this would present unaccept-

able gaps in the coverage.

It must also be considered that without two basehouses cover

ing the front of the target installation, any illness, personal problem or vacation for

operators of one basehouse would terminate Station coverage.

Also worth mention at this poirt is the radio "dispatching" of the LIEMBRACE

team by the LIMITED base.

Due to the tight protective security measures instituted by

the local police in the area of the LIMERICK installation it is impossible for a

unilateral surveillance team to stakeout the LIMERICK Installation when assigned to

coverage of members of the LIMERICK staff. LIMITED operator radio dispatches the

team onto target personnel giving direction, means of travel and description of dress

of these targets.

This permits the team to commence its surveillance a number of

blocks from the LIMERICK Installation and beyond the protective ring of the local

police. This radio alfpetching makes possible the survellance of LiME arent

which would otherwise be impossible or extremely risky.

The third besenouse, LICATtA, provides coverage of the back of the LIMERICK

Installation and the garden area.

This coverage is the real' "window" the Station has

into the LIVERICK target and provides a large part of the information on which

Station bases its identifications of LIVERICK staffers and its estimates of staffing,

personnel positions and Intelligence connections of the LIMERICK personnel.

its position, LICAtIA is also able to provide information on the LIMERICK installation

which 1s of LAURICLE Interest.

It Is the Station's opinion that as long as the LIMERICK installation is a prime

target of the Station, it will be necessary to maintain the present three basehouses.

To eliminate any one of the three would create a gap in the Station's coverage that

rould not be compatible with the emphasis placed on this target by the latest MD anc

the Station's responsibilities under this RD. to anyone aquact three?

36 OPFRATIONS - CURRENT.

In the past it has been stated that the LIEUPTY operation provides the majority

of photographs used by the Station in its CE operations against the LIMERICK target.

This is still true and will remain so for the foreseeable future, The Station,

particularly that section concerned with the LIMERICK target, has always considered

the LIEMPTY photo take an essential tool in following the daily activities of the

personnel of the target installation and visitors to that installation.

Obviously

the most interesting Individuals in both these categories are those of intelligence

Among these have been a number of PBPRIVE citizens..

For those interested

in statistics,

LIMPly take for the reporting period included approximately 235 rolla

of operational ecotos, 205 of which were directly concerned ich the LIMERICK target.

In addition,

the sally logs kept by the hasehouses on the comings and goings of the

LIMERICK stali members and visitors have greatly aided the Stations CE efforts,

especially in crists times such as the CPFLOOR affair.

In the area of specific support to the Station's CE program (in addition to the

above and support is other Station operations, the following is a list of selected

LIEMPIY contributions in this area.

LEMPTY cupport to the AMROD operation continues to be essential to

The contributions made by the two cutouts, Raymond H.

MERaNDO and Oliver Go SCANtLINe,

curing the reporting period can be

truthfully described as "naking" the operation work.

Only because CREDE

and SCANTLING are available to provide daily execution of the assignmenta

levied on the Station has the Station been able to contribute fully to

FORM

70-57 530

bo

Oliver G, SCANILING continues in his assignment as cutout in the LIMITED

phase of the LIMPTY operation ind alternate contact of LICASA-1 in a

sensitive operation of LAURICLE interest.

Due to the fact that SCARILiGis

wife died during the reportias parlod with the resulting visits of

URG APEROUS EDITION.

MiRCH ARE OBSOLETE.

FLASSIFICATION

BIORET

CONTINIGAGE

62

COPY NO.

PAGE NO.

38 6.3

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

LLASSIFILATION

SECRET

DISPATOR SYMBOL AND NU.

HMMA-23343

relatives and legal details to be settled, SCANTLING's miscellaneous

operational activity was somewhat curtailed.

However, SCANTLING did

find time to take on the servicing of a post office box mail drop for

the sensitive AEIMPULSE operation and complete two pretext investigations.

Co

GERENDE continued his assignments as cutout to LICALLA and LILYRIC basehouses

and LIENIRAP truck.

In addition GERENDE obtained a safe apartment for use

of the LIKAYAK Case Officer and performed an investigation at the Instituto

Cultural Español-Mexicano at the behest of the COS.

GERENDE and LTEMPLY-10

continued to provide frequent servicing of P. O. Box mail drops used

operationally by Mexico City Station as well as other Stations.

do

Special assignments were given the project basehouses concerning a matter

of LAURICIE Interest and the arrival and activities of two LIMERICK TDY

officials.

Full reports were prepared and supplied to the interested Station

officers in these cases.

The project assets have also been alerted to

provide immediate reporting on a special case involving a PRIME citizen

which is of interest to ODENVY and KUBARK.

Mexico of an individual of ODIBEX interest, the project assets were alerted

and supplied special weekend coverage of the LIMERICK staffer who was known

to have contacted the individual of interest to ODIBEX.

e.

During the reporting period the operational use of LIENIRAP continued to

increase.

This use has been primarily in the coverage of PM and exile

Communists residing in Mexiço.

3o SECURITY.

*. 'LIENIRAP was involved in an accident on 24 February 1964 waile returning from

an operational assignment. LIENIRAP was struck on the right side by a taxi which

had run a red light causing LIENIRAP to turn over on its leît side.

Since the

operational equiyment is not permanently mounted in LIENIRAP, and is carried in a

small case while moving from assigment to assigment, all equipment was readily

evacuated by LIMPIY-10 while the driver, LIEMPTY-ll, and bystanders righted

LIENTRA?®

The taxi fled the scene and LIENTRAP was able to move off under its

own power.

Damage to the right side and broken windshield resulted from the accident.

No security problems resulted and LIENIRAP was back in operation in a week.

A survey was conducted among the agents under this project to determine if they

remembered their recontact instructions and verbal recognition signals.

learned that nost had forgotten at least part of the plan. New contact plans are

being formulated and current pictures of all agents have been obtained to facilitate

recontact. It is planned to revlew the recontact instructions with the agents

periodically once the new plan is worked out.

4 EQUIPMENT.

"StURgor equinent problems other than the IINAP aceldent noted under

above were experienced during this period. In February the LIMITED camera

required adjustment of the shutter and trig spring.

5. PERSONNEL®

The Station nas been making a review of its personnel needs under this

project in order to determine where economies could be instituted without causing

taps in operational coverage or decrease in security and efficiency.

It has been

determined that IIIMPTY-12 can be terminated under the above conditions and probably

LIEMPTY-6 as well.

It is planned effect chese terminations as of 1 July 1964.

also has been deterined that as of 1 Jily LIEVPIY-19 will be placed on an hourly

rate for work performed for the Station.

6. TRAINING.

No training other than regular review of tradecraft princinles (to include

recontact instructions) are planned.

Photographic product

is reviewed daily as a

stendard procedure,

and action agents are instructed as necessary to improve or

correct their technique in both taking and processing the product.

1037 53a

(257).

USE PREY. OUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51023. 5 79 AND 51-29

CESORICATION

SECRET

CONTINPAGE

63

PAGE NO 6 8

COPY NO.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET /

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER SHEET

CRYPTONYM

STATION

I IENPTY

Mexico City

FIELD CASE OFFICER Quinton

OUSIER

CHIEF OF STATION

Hillard & Curt

The attached project action is presented for approval for the

"period 1 December 1960 through 30 November 1961.

15299

STONES PE

68

FACE

of

GOFY

NO.

08714

---

## Page 5

14-00000

I.

SECREL/

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

Ao

Oliver G.

SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation

to project objectives):

1.

"To collect operational information per

taining to LIMERICK personnel and physical

facilities."

SCANILING has continued (See the

last Project Review forwarded as an attachment

tO FIMIA-14093, 13 Novenber 1959) to provide

worthwhile and significant information per

taining to the above objective.

There follow

a few examples of SCANTLING's production:

A detailed casing of the LIVERICK

electrical power supply was forwarded

to Headquarters as an attachment to

12 February 1960.

HNNA-14490' this type of operational

The pro-

duction of

information, which takes several weeks

to compile accurately, illustrates the

unusual talents possessed by SCANTLING

together with his valuable contributions

to the Station's operational information

collection effort.

SCANTLING has been used frequently

to follow up leads produced by LIFEAT/

LINERICK (now produced by LIENVOY).

Por

example, in May 1960, LIFEAT indicated

that the IIVCRICK target was having con

siderable contact with an AGENCIA ROBLES

concerning the handling of incoming and

outgoing shipments.

By discreet investi-

gation,

SCANTLING was able to provide the

Station with additional pertinent information

about the address, owner and type of business

engaged in by the firm.

Such information

then becomes readily available for exploitation

should a ERICK shipment of particular

interest come to the attention of the Station,

C.

SCANTLING is the Station's prinary

investigative asset for keeping

track of

current

residence addressees of LIVERICK

personnel.

the Station considers it inportant

from

tain

the counterespionage standpoint to nain-

information on the location of all

98 007Y

504.2111

PAGE

COPY NO.

of 6 8

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Surel/MrS!

LIMERICK residences.

In addition,

targets are continually considered for LICOOI

A recent example of SCANTLING's

efforts in this connection would be the spot

ting and acquisition of

the LIMOTOR base in

the same apartment building with LITALON -10

Contributions of this type operational informa

tion are quite time consuming due to the

necessity for checking out several apartments

that a LIMERICK individual may initially be

considering as a residence.

"Do collect operational information pertaining to

other targets of opportunity, foreign official installa

In vexico personnel of intelligence interest operating

SCANTLING is also

other than LIMERICK:

In March 1960 SCANTLING was instrumental

in locating property adjacent to the LITABBY

installation which the Station has since

rented in anticipation of initiating photo-

graphic and technical operations.

was able to accomplish this assignment only

after a thorough casing and pretext investi

sations

of the several pieces of property

appropriate for such operations.

SCANTLING is also used to follow up

sensitive leads in connection with LIFEAI

and LIENVOY production fron LITABBY and

sister targets (See example as to type

under I,A,a, b and c above).

SCANTLING was used as an investigative

asset to determine the local addresa and

a counterespionage cuss of

interest to Headquarters and

ODEN VY.

"To exploit operational leads through recruitments

debriefings,

and surveillances."

SCANILING'S

contricution

As examples of

to this objective, the

following cases are listed:

SCANTLING devoted a considerable amount

of time

attempts to locate

GONZALEZ Sanchez,

a known agent

of a Con

munist Country.

He followed various leads

on GONZATEZ from March to August 1950 before

6 8

PAGE

COPY NO

01

---

## Page 7

14-00000

1520ET

GONZALEZ was finally identified and his

Mexico City home and business addresses were

ascertained

See HMMA-15626, 9 September I960,

for further details on this case.

The preliminary investigative work on a

KUSODA case of priority interest was conducted

by SCANTLING.

During this investigation it

was necessary for SCANTLING to travel to

Aquascalientes, Guanajuato end Minatitlan to

obtain the information required by Headquarters.

See the attachments to HNMT-1416, 20 May 1960g

for the results of the investigation.

In addition to his contributions to the above objec

SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support

requirements of the Station.

For example,

SCANTLING

handled several of Raymond H. GERENDE's (ps) operations

the latter was away from Mexico City during August

September 1960

the LIJERSEY surveillance

Also, team since the departure

Simon D. CLACKETT in August 1960-

It is hoped that

SCANTLING can be relieved of this assignment

as the IITEMPO project is

SCANTLING has also

used to spot and rent safe houses for various

Station operations, a valuable operational support

service.

As stated in the preceeding Request for Project

Renewal, al though SCANTLING'S LIANPTY Project objectives

can never be completely fulfilled, it is the station's

opinion that SCANTLING has made important and valuable

contributions to LIEVPTY Project objectives specifically

to other Station activities in general •

SCAN TLING's

production, measured against monetary expenditures,

case officer time and other intangible factors, unques

Fionably justifles his continuation as an integral part

of Project LIEMPTY.

Raynona H, GERENDE Segment (discused in relation to project

objectiveal:

irTo collect operational information pertaining to

LIMERICK personnel and physical facilities through use

of photographic base houses."

Together with

extensive photographic coverage of the LIMERICK target,

the photographic bases

also contribute other types

operational information:

3, LIMITED - This base compiles

daily logs

indicating all arrivals,

departures and,

possible,

identities of every person

visiting or working at the LIMERICK target.

PAGE

COPY NO.

0f

68

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

This information is particularly useful in keeping track of

LIMERICK personnel and assisting with the identification of

visitors to the installation.

Also, LIMITED maintains a

summary attendance list of LIMERICK employees on a dally

basis; this enables the Station quickly to ascertain the

presence or absence of an employee on any given day.

Finally, one other significant service is performed by this

base, the radio dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance

team on LIMERICK personnel and targets of opportunity.

LIMITED's photographic coverage is still concentrated on

visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK

installation. A recent example of the base's contributions to

Starion efforts is the case of

case, a LIENVOY lead indicated that an American might visit

the LIMERICK target on a certain day.

The base was alerted

to dispatch the radio-controlled surveillance team on any

person appearing to be an American,

The results of this

assignment were indicated in MEXI-6392 and several other

cables. LIMITED was also able to provide photographs,

quarters, left no question as to l

which when compared with phorogtepas provided by Head-

_identity.

b. LILYRIC - This base's output of high-quality clandestine

photographs has been in about the same quantity as last year.

In addition, the base operator, LIEMPTY-14, prepares weekly

reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives.

LILYRIC

also performs the assignment of noting and reporting the

license plate numbers of all cars bringing visitors to the

LIMERICK installation. LILYRIC photographs also are con-

centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed to employees.

it should be noted that LILYRIC operaies for photographic

coverage during the hours from daylight to 1400 hours each

day of the week except Sunday. The LIMITED base maintains

photographic coverage from 1400 hours co darkness each day

except Sunday.

c.

LICALLA - As ieported in previous correspondence, the

LICALLA base contributes to the collection of operational

information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK

employees and their families. Also, the base operator,

SECRETAK

68

FACE

coey

NO

of

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET/N

-5-

LIEMPTY-9, supplies extremely worthwhile information

pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target

employees. He accomplishes this objective by careful

observation and analysis. LICALLA also maintains a daily

attendance roster of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA

coverage of the target, both photographic and physical

observations, enables the Station to keep abrest of LIMERICK

personnel changes, a vital contribution to the Station's counter-

espionage effort.

2. "To collect operational information and identify operational leads

pertaining to Station targets of opportunity. " The LIENTRAP operation,

handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective. It

has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform

pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities. The

cases listed below are cited as examples:

In the case of

(see I, A, 3, a, above)

LIENTRAP was able to procure photographs of

Mexico City residence which, when compared to Headquarters

provided photographs, left no doubt that

was the

subject of interest to Headquarters.

b. LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon,

a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent

supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext

investigation of the residents of an apartment building where

CASTILLO was believed to live. Later, LIENTRAP supported the

results of the investigation with excellent photographs of the

subject.

3.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, i.e., rent

hotel rooms and apartmeuts, and conduct counter-surveillances.

GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for

other Stacion operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive

area knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make

him an extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities.

GERENDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many

Station operations requiring them.

SECRET

68

of

NOo

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET/K

-6-

4. It is the Station's conclusion that the money and case officer time

expended on this segment of the LIEMPTY project is worthwhile and

should be continued in view of the quality and quantity of operational

information produced.

C. Simon D. CLACKETT Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives) :

1. "To collect operational information and to identify operational leads

pertaining to the LIMERICK target and Station targets of opportunity."

During this project year the LIJERSEY surveillance team under the

direction of CLACKETT began contributing to the Station's support

efforts through pretext investigations and physical surveillances. Some

examples of the team's work are listed below :

a.

(201-64372) is a Guatemalan

Communist which the team had under surveillance from

November 1959 to April 1960. The surveillance, together

with information acquired from other sources, eventually

resulted in an unsuccessful recruitment attempt on

b.

(201-64546)

1s a

Dominican of interest to the Station. The LIJERSEY team

devoted portions of five months, January to May 1960, collecting

information on subject through physical surveillance.

c.

Jose Maria "Chema" LOPEZ Valdizon (201-

was the

subject of a physical surveillance during May and June 1960.

LOPEZ was later deported from Mexico through the efforts

of IITEMPO-2.

d. CLACKETT and the LIJERSEY team performed numerous

pretext investigations on Station targets of opportunity and on

three separate occasions during the project year served as

a counter-surveillance escort for Station officers in other

operations.

2. CLACKETT, just prior to his resignation in August 1960, spent

about five weeks giving tradecraft and operational skills training to

LITEA-1. Although not specifically covered by the project objectives,

this ability on CLACKETT's part is considered a significant con-

trioution to the Station's support efforts.

SECRET /

PAGE

COPY NO.

_ 0 68

---

## Page 11

14-00000

Il.

SECRETY*

-7-

3. In view of CLACKETT's resignation, which was effective 31

August 1960, and the proposed transfer of the LIJERSEY team to

the LITEMPO project, this segment of the LIEMPTY project will

not be renewed.

However, for the record, it is considered that

the CLACKETT segment of LIEMPTY was worthwhile and the

expenditure of Station assets in connection with LIJERSEY operations

were justified,

D. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives :

It can readily be noted that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to

many Starion operations and in this manner has been a contributing factor

to the furtherance of the Related Mission Directive.

The project has not

produced any positive intelligence nor has it been intended that it should

do so. The project's sole purpose is to provide a mechanism for the

development of operational information in support of other Station

operations.

CHANGES

A. Simon D. CLACKETT

The unexpected resignation of CLACKETT in August 1960 has

necessitated the decision as how best to utilize the LIJERSEY surveillance

team and still benefit from the training and experience gained by the team

during the past year. As explained in the LITEMPO project outline, it was

decided that the LITEMPO Staff Agent would have the time, the need and the

requirements to handle and manage the LIJERSEY team on a regular basis;

consequently, the Station believed that such a solution to this problem would

permit the Station to continue to profit from CLACKETT's past efforts.

B. Oliver G. SCANTLING

Since CLACKETT's departure, SCANTLING has been handling the

LIJERSEY team as an interim measure pending Headquarters approval of

the LITEMPO project. SCANTLING has been exposed to, and likewise

knows, only one of the team members, LIEMPTY-20. SCANTLING is

known to L-20 only by an alias.

SECRET/16

F1CE

08. 68

---

## Page 12

14-00000

Ill.

SECRET

-8-

C. Personnel Changes

1. LIEMPTY-15 - Member of the LIJERSEY surveillance team -

Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-2.

2. LIEMPTY-16 - Member of the LIJERSEY surveillance team -

Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-3.

3. LIEMPTY-20 - Assistant Team Leader of LIJERSEY surveillance

team - Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-1.

4. LIEMPTY-25 - Most recent addition to the LIJERSEY surveillance

team. Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-4.

5. There have been no other personnel changes within the LIEMPTY

project, excepting the resignations of Simon D. CLACKETT and

Wilma J. FIORDALISI.

EFFECTIVENESS

A. General comments pertaining to the value of the project efforts to the

Station's needs - The Station is of the opinion that its operations are only

as good as the support mechanisms backstopping and contributing to them.

The availability of unilateral support agents and organizations, such as

the LIEMPTY Project, to investigate leads and to collect operational

information is an indispensable ingredient to the Station's espionage and

counterespionage objectives. The Station would be seriously handicapped

in its operational activities should the support services of such agents as

GERENDE, SCANTLING and the agents under their control be suddenly

made unavailable.

LIMERICK Target - The basis for most of the Station's counter-

espionage activities directed against the LIMERICK target require detailed

knowledge of the identity, activities and fellow associates of LIMERICK

personnel. The LIEMPTY photographic basehouses undoubtedly provide

more of this type information than any other Station operation.

production from LIEMPTY photographic bases and from the LIENVOY

project provide the Station with the large majority of LIMERICK leads.

SECRETA

55 0 68

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET/

-9-

C. Targets of Opportunity - The immediate availability of independent

assets to perform investigations, photographic assignments and other

essential types of support services in connection with Station targets of

opportunity represent an operational advantage which this Station considers

highly significant. It is due to such LIEMPTY assets that an agent can be

sent to distant areas in Mexico to do investigations, that photographs can

be made of individuals and places which are of operational interest and

apartments and hotel rooms can be acquired in fictitious names in

suppori of sensitive operations and activities.

D. Although the progress and success of any support project depends

upon telescements from other Station operations, it must be concluded

that Project LIEMPTY has indeed been effective during the past project

Iv.

V.

PROBLEMS

A. Security - The activities of the LICALLA base were suspended in

September 1960 as a direct result of the arrest of three KURIOT

technicians by the Cuban Government. One of the technicians was known

to have knowledge of the four LIMUST units (LICALLA' is located in one

of these units) and the Station considered it appropriate to suspend photo-

graphic operations pending resolution of the situation. At this time,

there is no indication when LICALLA operations will be resumed.

The

LICALLA base operator has reported that there have been no unusual

inquiries or other suspicious actions which might indicate that LICALLA

has been compromised to LIMERICK personnel; however, such a

possibility will exist until the release of the three technicians. No

other security problems have occurred during the past year.

PLANS

A. Processing of Photographs - During the past year considerable

progress has been made in the Station's handling, i,e., sorting, indexing,

identifying leads and filing, of photographs produced by the several bases.

B. Photographic Techniques - The previous LIENPTY Project Renewal

Request indicated that the Station planned to try new techniques using

HY-PAN film in night photography. HY-PAN film was used on a trial

basis during daylight hours with poor results. Almost invariably, prints

SECRET/

PAGE

56

NO

of 6 8

---

## Page 14

14-00000

VI.

SECRET/I

-10-

from HY-PAN negatives were too grainy and,

consequently, were of

little use in producing good identified shots of individuals. In view

of these experiments, night photography has not yet been attempted.

It should be noted that Eastman Kodak's new TRI-X PAN film, which

all bases and LIENTRAP now use, is superior to any film previously

used by the Station for clandestine photography. The quality of all

base photographs have been increased considerably as a direct result

of this new film.

C. General Comments - The Station believes that the GERENDE

segment is now operating under optimum organizational arrangments

and there are no plans for expansion contemplated at this time. It is

expected that SCANTLING will soon be relieved of his interim

responsioility for the LIJERSEY team and can concentrate more on his

investigative and casing activities. The transfer of the LIJERSEY team

to Project LITEMPO reduced Project LIEMPTY activities by an

appreciable amount. It is not planned, during the coming yeat, to

expand present LIEMPTY activities.

COSTS

A. Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project

LIEMPTY expended $19, 120. 91 during Fiscal Year 1960 (1 December

1959 - 30 June 1960) and has thus far during Fiscal Year 1961 (through

31 October 1960) expended $16, 734. 69. Contract Agents salaries and

allowances paid by Headquarters bring the total expenditures for 11

months of the project year to approximately $50, 000. 00. An additional

$4, 000. 00 will be obligated during the 12th month of the project year.

This will bring total project expenditures to about $54, 000. 00 for the

entire project year.

B.

Ensuing Period - Of the total $53, 000. 00 budget, itemized below,

$31,900.00 should be expended during the remainder of Fiscal Year

1961 and the balance, $21, 100. 00, should be expended during Fiscal

Year 1962. Normal accounting procedures will be used for all

expenditures.

SECRET /K

PAGE 52 0868

COPY NO.

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

-11-

AGENT

Raymond H, GERENDE & - 3.2743

Oliver G. SCANTLING C- 26803

Louise J. MACRINO 1-41452

(@ $2.02 per hour)

LIEMPTY-4•0 - 5/872

LIEMPTY-5 C- 58482

@ pl. 75 per hour

LEMPTY-6 C-2484

LIEMPTY-7 No Salary C- 38075-

LIEMPTY-8

6 - 38074

LIEMPTY-9

6-57699

LIEMPTY-10 C-5598

LIEMPTY-11

C-41435

LIEMPTY-12 C- 36224

LIEMPTY-13

4-46945°

LIEMPTY-14

0-61168

LIEMPTY-19 C. 775?9

LIEMPTY-24 No Salary C-25072

Christmas bonuses all personnel

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV.- MV.-2279, 2284

and 2286.

Operational Travel

Procurement of Safehouses, post

office boxes and renting

automobiles.

Purchase of information,

identification documents, and

bribes.

U.S. $ PER ANNUM

$

5,040.00

4, 560. 00

2, 500.00

2, 000.00

1, 500.00

2, 800.00

-O-

1, 800.00

2, 800.00

3,

600. 00

2, 500.00

1, 800.00

1, 800.00

1, 800. 00

1, 000.00

-0-

2,500.00

$ 38, 000.00

$

2, 000.00

500.00

2, 000.00

2, 500.00

SUB-TOTAL

$

7,000.00

SECRETA

PAGE

COPY

NO.

- 0568

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRETAHA

-12-

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair and maintenanceof

camera equipment.

Purchase of replacement

photographic equipment and

supplies.

$

500.00

2, 000.00

SUB-TOTAL

2,500.00

REAL ESTATE

Rent, utilities and maintenance

of following safehouses:

*LIMITED

*LICALLA

LILYRIC

$

3, 000. 00

1, 500. 00

1,000.00

SUB-TOTAL

5, 500.00

GRAND TOTAL

$53, 000.00

*LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and

credited to Station miscellaneous receipts.

VII. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

As regards the requirement listed in CSI-F No. 230-60, Annex A, for

communications arrangments in the event of "Emergency Conditions."

the Station does not anticipate that this project would or could continue

to function under its present objectives. However, both principal

agents, SCANTLING and GERENDE, would very possibly be worthwhile

sources of information to maintain contact with under zoy adverse

conditions. Both of these agents identity themselfs, in terms of

ideology, motivation and perspective, more as Americans than as

Mexican nationals (which they are).

It is reasonable io assume, there-

fore, that SCANTLING and GERENDE would become valuable contacts

in any emergency situation,

SECRETA

68

FAGE

COPI NO.

of

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECRET/*

-13-

The Station is aware that the previous project renewal stated that

emergency communications arrangments were being made. The

Station has finally obtained the U.S. addresses of relatives through

whom GERENDE and SCANTLING could be contacted under most

situations. This information will be forwarded separately.

SECRET N

Parats

PAGB 60 o5 18

COPY NO.

---

