# 104-10433-10016

## Page 1

1104-10433-10016]

361 - 723

9 December 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. The document is based on

information received from al

which it obtained from a

(sensitive intelligence operation run by that

The information is

concerned with the attempt of an American to contact the Cuban Embassy in a

foreign city.

The reason for this attempted contact apparently had to do with an

interest in obtaining a visa for a visit to Cuba. The individual involved was

never found to have any involvement in assassination plans or activities. The

document also contained information confirming the existence of an Agency

station in a specific city abroad, information confirming a

arrangement

with a

Mas well as information identifying the kind

ot intelligence operation which produced his particular information; Given the

data to identify the kind of operation, the specific source of the operation would

also be evident. Both matters are considered sensitive by the

which provided the information.. Those factors required that the information

continue to be handled as classified. This particular document also identifies

a number of Agency components and several Agency staff employees. The

• document was denied under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b)(3) and:

(b) (6).

1531

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

ORIG VIrginia Benshaw

UNIT

EX: 39407

5940 Reports NEX

DATE: 8: DOC

D FILEIN CS FILE NO.

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OM, SUESTO CENTRAT, INTELLICENCE AGENCY

CONE:

INFO

OCT DUCT DUPR

12-62

ROUTING

•4.

5.

3 DEC 63

15 |62

SIERREN

ROUTINE

INFO

ShE DIR,

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SUBJECT RICHARD BEYHER, AMERICAN MOVIE ACTOR, IN TOUCH VITA-CUBAN

AMBASSTO MEXICO CITY. P

Kirs

TITHE MEXICO CITIENNS OF 5 DECEMBER 1963 CARRIED A PICTURE

O RICHARD BEYIER AMERICAN MOVIE ACTOR, WHO VAS A DELEGATS TO TAS FILN

FESTIVAL BEING HEED IN ACAPULCO,

HEYER VAS TN TOUCH VITE THE CUBAN EMBASSE IN MEXICO CITY

ON 2 DECEMBER, ANDRA, PERSON BELIEVED TO BE BRYNER WAS IN TOUCH IT THE

EMBASSY ON 30 NOVEMBERS HE WANTED TO SPEAKITO STLVIA, DURAN WHO HAS NOX

ATITHE EMBASSY.

ANOTHER, EMPLOYEE, TOLD HIM RAT NO REPLY HAD BEENE

RECEIVSS FROL CUBA

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW:

CONDUCTED ON? 4 MAY 1976

THIS OFFICE HASINO INFORMATION ON BEYMER

IMPET CL BY 072208

DURAN IS THE NEXICAN EMPLOYER OF THY CUBAN EMBASSY VITE WHOM

PEE, OSVALD VAS TOUCH REGARDING MARISA TOR CUBAD

THIS: INFORMATIONS FOR YOUR USE ONLY AND MAY NOT BE DISSEMI-

NATED WITHOUT PERMISSION FROM THIS AGENCY;

2 Document Number

361-123

END OF MESSAGE

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1975

Based on?

I 7220)

IN 72824, 3 December

(EXT 7260) IN 745286 5 December

1963

1963

Cornan

JANE, ROMAN

* COSING OFICER

GROUP 1

SECRET

downgrading and

declassification..

REPROPUCTION BY OTHER: THAN THENSSUING OFFICE IS: PROHIBITED

MENTICAR

HENTICAl

OFFICER

Copy. No.

---

