# 104-10172-10254

## Page 1

104-10172-10254

' UNCLASSIFIED

INTERS AL

'LY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SURICT: TO

.02

[POLADDLE

FROW

*SE/DE

4D57

number, and

DAtE

ERASION

9149

PETBAL

DATE: 10 AUgusE 1977

PORWARDIO

(ICT/REA/E CT-S

please file

10.

12.

14.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

15.

PORN 610 SO SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

6 ruput 1971

MHOLMIUN TURE Chael, Defector Branch

SE Division

SUBJECT

Jack Inderson Articlo on ALACLE Case

1. This 1s to Inform you that on 2 August 1977, at the request of Chief, SEs

secretary, I telephoned it. Jack Blake, the Actsde DDCI.

2. 15. Elato asised no if "ALADLE" neant anything to no and did I over work

With ALADES. (Ar. Blake used the cryptonya "ALADLE," not his true name.) I told

1r. Blake that I had worked with ALADLE, along with many other case officers. Ho

asked if I knew of the circunstances of ALADLE's defedtion, and I replied that I

know the case rather vell.

Jack Anderson which vas not in our local. (washington, D.G.) newspaper notated that

"John Melsahaa handled the MELADLE case and there was a bue (aicrophone) la every room

in the house where AINDLE was kept. " Mr. Blake asked 1f I were thail

(he had spoken with John N. NaNahon earller, who lew nothing about the case). I

repeated that I worked on the ALADLE case along with meny otkers, saw LADLE on

many occasions, but never worked ilth hin in my true name. I told It. Blake this

18 inside Infornation, is a socurity violation; and asked hou Jack Anderson obtained

It. Mr. Blake said te didn't know but that someone would look Into it. Fe thanked

Do for uy inforcation and said he may contact no later.

ho I sugtest thit you obtain a copy of the above pensioned Jack inderson article

12444

as it pertains to a lefector handled by this Division and was a very sensitive case

at the tine. It vould be interesting to know, too, what else Anderson had to say

about this case or the geney's handling of it, and it should be nade a part of the

AEL LOLE 201 File. #

# Copycath clican

03

$3/D3

i fusin

Dale: Secretar, f C/SE (Mary Belh, R.-1045).

a brary dubray prouides

SECRET

Messpend Rania (VA.) poser do farte, actin latre be, SE/08 A

CI/RAA/B

---

