# 104-10119-10059

## Page 1

104-10119-10059

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

DATE

TO: "

:

ROOM NO.

BULD SR& CD

GE- 31

Headquarters

REMARKS:

For subject's file:

•-?

HUNT, E. Howard

FROM:

ROOM NO

2C-0.

19 59-241

C/ PhySD

BUILDING

Tyler

EXTENSION

6821

(01)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY VIOLATION REPORT

23500

¡ETAILS

OF THE VIOLATION: On Tuesday, 15 July 1969, at 7:29 P.M., USSP O. Cole on a

routine inspection of the area found an improperly secured safe in Room 4B-29,

Headquarters Building. The classification of the material in the safe was at least

SECRET. The safe was secured and the check sheet turned over to the Security

Duty Office. The char force had not been through the area prior to the discovery.

2.

INDIVIDUAL(S) RESPONSIBLE

OFFICE

DIVISION

BRANCH

HUNT,

Howard

DD/P

EUR

CA Staff

DD/P

EUR

CA Staff

- DESCRIPTION OF HOW

VIOLATION OCCURRED: Both individuals were interviewed in their offices on

16 July 1969. Mr. Hunt stated that he left his office between 5:40 and 5:45, telling

Miss

that he was leaving for the day. He did not tell her that his safe was open.

He assumed, he said, that one of the girls would check his office. He also stated that

he himself usually closes and locks the safe unless there was something in his out box.

(Note: A review of the safe check sheet for the latter part of May and early June,

until Mr. Hunt went on leave, indicates that he signed off every day). Miss

stated that Mr. Hunt did say he was leaving, that he did not mention the open safe and

that he usually secured the safe himself. She also stated that she had glanced into

his office on the 15th but had not noticed nor checked for the open safe. She left

the office at 6:08 P.M. There is no second check system in use in this complex.

In view of the circumstances, both are charged with this violation.

4. SECURITY HISTORY OF PERSONIS RESPONSIBLE:Mr. Hunt has been employed by the Agency since

October 1948. A review of his record indicates that he has been charged with an

Open Safe security violation which occurred on 3 September 1968.

03

Miss

has been employed by the Agency since November 1962. A review of

her record indicates that she has not been previously charged with a security

violation.

03

SIGNATURES CHIED SURY gRAperationS branch

ENDORSEMENT

TO

:

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

FROM:

EUR

ACTION TAKEN:

(Area Security Officer)

Mr. Hunt

rtolkin?

sua took was given a written reprimand (copy attached).

25 Auyti

was given an oral reprimand by DC/EUR/SS.

DATE

SIGNATURE

20 August 1969

PREVIOUS

DC/ EUR, SUPPORT

Erstated tram stammer

8. 62 912a

CONFIDENTIA?

6-JD

---

