# 104-10167-10389

## Page 1

104-10167-10389

ASTURN TO CIA

Background Use Only!

Do Not Reproduce

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS

'CATION TOP AND BOTTOM

LICLAS-IFIED

SFIDENTIAL X SECKET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

DC/WH/4

WH/Y/Emance

а інад

3

6

03

INOPPE

sr

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FLE

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

POMCUOBINCE

Remarks

pil

PREFACE REPLY

RECCAMEMDATIOM

RETURN

SOMER

hite contes. Fit one to huy.

FOLO HERE TO RETL AN TO/SENDER

FROM: HAME. ADORNES ANY 17I0

ENCRASSITNS

ACTE

-61" 237

Use pres

editoes

CONEIDESTIAL

Petty nowa

I/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

de/verna

7 July 1963

Q. Droller

Fonty Farons

1. I understand that the questles of our past $900 per month

absidy to li. Varse hes come up lor discussion recently

ollowing deft be woeful to you as beckground Infortion

?. Vappos arrived In the Dalted States on or about & lay 16

and new Mr.

Ton 9 key of cht year. Durtig this 9 la

noting and a meting on the ralloving day betveen!

Itbe Ider- d3

stead and Veras, the latter ailudoi repeatedly to the fact ras he

had been promised la Farang by his.

Toot only support for his US

operational plans but elso support for Els personal seeds.

reiterated that be sus absolitely broice end it van essential tear he

703

alone and seals nade a pitch for some personal soney.

8, 521 Tarons ted requested. Put of tie 1500, Verona vould sire

$200 to his chauffeus /body gard, Francisco layas.

It say be vell to

recall that the rationale for bla declaisa et that time sas ttat..

Ir. Yarons was the dey person and possible key Ilgure of the destralldal

anti-castro orcanization ve vere to fart. As of 1 June 15t0 sad up

through Hovember of that yeur, l'arous was juld 3800 per month by

"HER check." From Hovenber 1500 through Harch 1961, Varona va

pald directiy by Mr. Hoverd lunt la kled la cash. April and iay 1561

perments vere made once agala by "52078 chach" on Headguarters.

Fo Inyments have been nade for the mauths af June or July 19á1 Becasin

It vE felt that vita Miro Cardona's seral LeadersaiD postelas 16

", shich by tise say = vere in addition to is malary tarosi

drer tron the FRD.

his chocking account.

1. As of 3 July 1961, I ses of the opinion that ve aborld not pu

..Varons anything more under the sebie, but la ties of the Special Grou

mmerous Cubes groups and persomlisses, 16 misht be viee to beep la

touch with Varons for som tire end pur lla sous rossomale amount

un nothing omente Iriendahlis better this money.

SECRET

4/8R

---

