# 104-10219-10173

## Page 1

104-10219-10173

OUTGOING MESSAGE

MICHALEE

con

ACE

OMF

D

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: LAE,

D

0

0

062300Z

DIRECTOR

¡iNFO: FILE IPlAN OPSINARZ DCOZ

ISNITO

9-28-49

630872

AHO KOBE

ПЯТИРА ТО

PER

0 908

cinda

Comerite l

• TO: PRIORITY

MHABYSS PBRAMPART Y

REF:

22730 [IN 432300*| Y

J. REGARDING JOSEPH RAYMOND

. MERO LA 8201-25780470

U•S• CITIUZEN SUBJECT PARA 2 REF• PLEASE INFORM DEA THE FOLLOWING:

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, AN OCCASIONAL CONTACT OF OUR OVERT OFFICE IN

MIAMI SINCE 1961 PERIODICALLY PROVIDES THAT OFFICE WITH FOREGIGN

POSITIVE. INTELLIGENUCE INFORMATION. IT IS SUGGESTED THAT THE FBI BE

CONTACTED FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. Y

: 20

HaS INFORMED BKHERALD JUNE 74 THAT MEROLA WAS OF

OPERATIONAL. INTEREST. THEY REQUESTED. TRACES AND STATED HE REPORTEDLY

WORKED FOR BKHERALD IN LATE 1950'S. WE REPLIED THAT MR. MEROLA HAD

NEVER WORKED FOR BKHERALD, ALTHOUGH WE WERE AWARE THAT HE HAD MADE

SUCH CLAIMS ON NUMBER OF PREVIOUS INSTANCES: Y

-07053

•3. HAS RELAYING FOR STATION USE ONLY

20664. 13 JAN 74

AND DIRECTOR 502254, 17 JAN 74, WHICH REPORTS DEROGATORY INFORMATION

•ON MEROLA•

4°

MEROLA BEING PROCESSED INTO THE ISR AS SOURCE. WILL

DATE:

ORIG:

UNN:

EXT:

"ECR

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2

. IMPDET

2VOg

CL BY: 010316 1

---

## Page 2

OUTGOING MESSAGE

BIGAAL CNATEAUSKONLY

€00

OMF 0 ..

D a

0

CATION

SECRET

BRABADE

STAFF, Y

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

* **

Bris. is

.. 2

DIRECTOR

13681)

DISSEM 8Ys

AN INADA

PER

M.

4,66

ADVISE WHEN REGISTRATION COMPLETED. Y

S?:

PLEASE ADVISE LOCAL

ORLANDO DBATISTA

VIERA'S

OCCUPATION AS DETECTIVE IS INCLUDED IN CATEGORY OF PERSONS WHOSE OPS

USE IS PROHIBITED THROUGHOUT THE INTEL COMMUNITY AND ISR POLICY

*: E

PRECLUDES HIS REGISTRATION• HOWEVER • EMPHASIZE TO

THAT THIS FACT

NOT INTENDED TO PROHIBIT THEIR USE OF SUBJECT• BATISTA WILL BE

RECORDED AS A CONTACT OF

_IN BKHERALD FILES IN CEASE ANY OTHER U.S.

GOVERNMENT AGENCY EXPRESSES OPS INTEREST

HEADQUARTERS IS BEING ;

INFORMED OF ABOVE. Y

b.. THE FOLLOWING MAY BE PASSED TO

BATISTA WAS BORN

10 JULY 1933, HAVANA: CUBA, WAS IN CUBAN NAVY: ARRIVED IN U.S. IN

EARLY 6O'S AS EXILE. SUBJECT IS MARRIED TO DAISY DE LA DO TORRE

WAS IN PRISON SEVERAL MONTHS IN 1959 IN CUBA ACCUSED OF BEING MEMDER

OF BASTISTA'S ARMED: FORCES: AND HAVEING IDEAS OPPOSED TO CASTRO

REVOLUTION, SUBSEGUENTLY RELEASED• SUBJECT OF OPS INTEREST TO

BKHERALD IN 2563-1964: INTEREST DROPPED IN 1964 AND SUBJECT

TERMINATED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. ASK

TO REFER TO FBI FOR MORE

INFO ON SUBJECT. Y

..:

DATE:

DRIG:

Q 520 B

EXTE

COOnORATES OPNCHNE.:

REPROBUCT, JOY OTHER THAN THE ISSURIS OFFICE IS PRO' JEO

IMPDET

BY: 030116

1227i

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

OUTGOING MESSAGE

BICOLAL CENFENUSEO

Đe

OMF 0

ELSEATIoN

SECRET

MESSAGE MANOLINO DIENCATO

STAFF

CONF:

DAGE

3

BATE-PILE ON

INFO: FILE

core

DIRECTOR

630872

D

DISSEM BT:

NO DENS

ReTurn te

PER

?. FYI ONLY: POA GRANTE: 63 FOR SUBJECT'S USE IN PM BOAT

OPERATIONS; HOWEVER POA CANCELLED WHEN HE CLAIMED HE UNABLE

SATISFACTORILY TREAT HIS SEASICKNESS• IN 64, SUBJECT INTERVIEWED BY

FBI IN LOS ANGELES• CALIFORNIA RE. GROUP OF CUBANS IN MIAMI INVOLVED

:IN BROUG OPERATIONS• SUBJECT REVEALED HIS BKHERALD CONNECTIONS TO

"FBI• y

8: FILE: 200-11-12/19: 201-740127; 201-257804. EZ IMPDET.

*REQUESTED PRIORITY TRACES ON MEROLA AND BATISTA.

& REGISTER IN ISR.

SOURCES AND

C. CAMPBELL

ECD/OSS (TELECOORDI

A LA NARC

DATE: 6 DECEMBER 1974

- ORIG:

UNIT: LA/NACRC/LA/CAR

EIT: 6312/1249.

DAVID A. PHILLIPS

IBAHO OFFIC

DDO/NARCO

• I REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEO

spe

ALFONSO SPEARA

CALA/CAR

ANSICATINS OFFICAN

E 2 .; IMPDET

.Ch. BI: 010116

set italia tour

---

