# 104-10183-10430

## Page 1

104-10183-10430

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH

Chief, WE

115-44

unler of station

Deputy Chief,

Wa/c,, care? of Station.

→5-9

z/Chies of Stations

1RR0/DE1D

!: KEYWAY FBRUMEN AMVIUP,

ACTOON REQUIRED REFERENCES:

Ao

DIR 07888

PROCESSING

ACTICIN

MARXID FOR INDEXING

NO INDENING REQUIRED

DILY. QUALIFIED

READQUAITERS DESA

CAM JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

ACCOM

PRISHED

02| 00S MISER SER.

1. On I June, (QUrROri/2 sold be was valted at the COEß abop by two 1a-

The inspectors questioned

an Italian national narried to a Ciban.

The Inspectors said they were looking

for all three Individuals who are suspected jewel amugglers and reportedly are

also engaged in the buying and selling of Jevelry and prescious atones seized

by the Castro Government and being disposed of in Burope:" (@UCROWI/2 had no

current knowledge of any of these persons and was honestly unable to help the

0l

2. In late May the Station recelved fromi

Ta bootleg copy of a

report prepared inl

section (distinct from the section handling for

eign control) on the activities of Cubans Involved in the sale of jevelry and

precious stones confiscated by the Castro Government. This report which pur

porte to originate with a reliable source names AMVHIP/1,

* "AMWHIP/2 and Domenico

Romano, Italian citizen and proprietor of & Jevelry store in Rome, as being &

ring of individuals Inveived in the disposal in Europe of-the confiscated

The report also states that AMLASH/l has been involved with the ring

and that AMLASE/2 delivered Jovela to AN/IIP/2 In Geneva during bie last trt)

tó Europe and later was in contact vith Romano In Rome.

3. Undoubtedly the questioning of ladaROwL/2 by the trol

Pinapectors ol

me predieted at least in part on the information report prepared in

section. In any event the persons mentioned in this report have now come to

attention. as suspected smugglers and 1llicit Jewelry dealers and will

certainly receive special attention byl

Offs they agala enter Spain.

H. It to Interesting to speculate the extent to which ANWHIP/2 and AMVHIP/2

may actually be involved in 11licit business in Europe and to what extent

ANWET?/1 may use the cover of his activities for KUBARK to further these trane-

act1008. (

FOUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

GO FIELD DISIRIBUTION

P

Matribution

2. c/w

1 = cos,L

1 • DC/WE/C

-9

• 1 = 00S,

GROUP I - Excluded from

autonatic downgrading

and decl

8a1fIcation

Carlace

GROWERY

" CÃDS FERENCE FO

10:/-..9.2.034

DATE TYPED

14 June 65

DISPATCH STADO, ANO NUMBER

22

6SMA) 19,453

MEAQQUARTERS FILE PUMBER

331-267556

DATE DISPAICHED

16 June 65

SECRM

---

