# 104-10186-10222

## Page 1

104-10186-10222

TINFORMATIO

REPORT MINEORI

ATIONARERORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material matains informatina slatine thé Mallonal Delese of the l'ntra Sales estate the mesains of she lapdonero LatE Tile

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Dominican Republic

SUBJECT Jaime DURAN Hernando

S

3

REPORT NO.

CSCI - 316/02360-64

DATE DISTR

1 December 1964

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

1964

• INFO.

RETURN TO CIA

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduci

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUBCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APÈRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

1.

Jaime DURAN Hernando 15 kasun sargonally by source

and was identified by source from

travel manifests

and also from a photograph as a Dominican and a member of

the sovimento Popular Dominicana (MPD) and the Agrupaclos

Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ.

2. As a member of the APCJ, DURAN was originally

sent to Cuba to secure a scholarship in the Union of Soviet

Socialist Republics (USSR).

However, source Juages

upon this scholarship not materializing, DURAN

guerrilla warfare training program

believes that DURAN was still in Cuba at the time he left.3

Unwittingly, DURAN was used by a Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)

member, whose true name is allegedly Elpidio RUIZ (pseudonym

"Tiburon"), to deliver a microfilm message, concealed in a

match folder, to source in Habana, with the comment that 1t

came from one of the members of the MPD. The MPD does not

know RUIZ is a Cuban intelligence officer. DeRAN

traveled

to Cuba by way ot Jamaica and France.

STATE

NAY

REP CINCIMIT CINCSO :

¿Note field disribution indicated by " 2'1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

IENS

(ALSO SENT

(CONT.)

CHOUP T

oce/BR

IFBT T

INFORMANION REPORT

19-.

SIL/SA/EOB: L NESS'R

KH/SAR 1 17172:08

NI/HALE

TOTALET/SA 7 (2), TE 1 (2). CIG, RID !, UH 1 PO

INFORMAlLON -RERORT

1'15-1826

NO PROJECT (ANMUG/1)

CSCI-316/02360-641

147/2/DR BS: LD Sal

120 draft C

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2=

Headquarters Comments:

1. DIRAN was sub-secretary general of the APCJ.

2. For information on DURAY's travel from Santo Domingo,

13 September 1963,

to Cuba see TDCS-3/558,654, TDCS-3/558,994,

and TDCS 3/560,741.

In TDCS- 314/04550-61, of 27 October 1964, a usually reliable

source reported that while in'Cuba DURAN had seven

milttary training.

DURAN returned to the Dominican

Republic, by air, on 25 October 1964 from Curacao.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

• :

---

