# 104-10180-10050

## Page 1

104-10180-10050

707÷39

DEPARTMENTOF STATE

OFFICE OF SECURITY.

REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION

Il a sean

SO NOT ARITE ISONE THISLINE

1/9VE9

ADD: TION

DIVISION OR AGENCY.

CONTROL:

THIS

REQUEST

PL

Sisa uprice

THEOFFICE OF SEGURITY EY:

FOR REQUEST, OR TYPE OF:FROGRAM

NAME OR REQUESTING OFFICER

I RESULTS OF THIS REQUEST FOR SECURT

O NO RECORD

'DiO DEROGATORY INFORMATION

INFORMATION:

- - SPECIAL

DOTHER!: 30981erse sid ine

1:1168

here three we wer

CATE

TIT FOR USE OF OFFICE OF SECURITY:

For information concerning Subject you are

referred to ESCI-3/702,2:1 dated

2> June 1904, subject as above, and GSiI-310/50095-64 dated 25 August 1904g

subject: Shipnent of Explosives to Mexico, and tu the Federal Bureau of Investigation

20 April 1968

FILE IN 201- 588665*

2- APR 1968

---

## Page 2

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATI:

PANION LAST NOTIFIEO

CLASSIERE MESSAGE

* TOTAL COF

SECRET

• BabattE

(When Filled In)

HOUTING AN OR INITIALS SEEN BY

ADVANCE COMr. ISTURO

BT: .

AT:

O YEs : ONe

CLARIMY TO CRIENO.

HAEF PO CB FILENO. -

DISSEN BY

HE TION UNI

.=.

BRANCH

FILE, VR

ICTION NO.

340

SECRET 251614Z AUG TO CITE

Du S

INFO: DIRECTOR

AKULE/ DOMOPS/ AMROSÉ/ WUSLAB

27909698

2790)

119698

REF;

]21a1 (im 116109)

I. ENUSLAB LUNCHED WITh

(8201-332665)

AT BEAUX ARTS NOTEL, NEW YORK 'CITY, 21 AUGUST 1$70.

STATED HE INTERESTED OPINIONS NOT DOCUMENTS AND

SUGGESTED WUSLAB/I TALX TO PROMINENT US AND LATIN AMERICAN.

OFFICIALS IN GOVERNMENT, INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS, AND FOUNDATIONS

TO DETERMINE WHAT IS IN THE WIND RÉ US POLICY TOWARD CUBA.

CONTENDED THAT THERE ARE MANY FACTORS INDICATING INGREASED U.S.

ANKL

A3 X

PRESSURE ON CUBA•: THIS SITUATION FORCES CUBA TO ACES ACCOMODATE

REVOLUTION WITHIN RIGID SYSTEM OF INTERNATIONAL COMMUNISM AND AWAY

EROM

INDEPENDENT PRINCIPLES OF 26 JULY MOVEMENT. THUS CUBAN SOCIETY IS

-3%

-DESINED

NOT THE JOYFUL ONE FIDEL PROMISED.

FI

3.

GAVE WUSLAB/I LÄRGE HIBASTE INTER OFFICE ENVELOPE

CONTAINING BOOK

4.

EXERTED NO PRESSURE ON WUSLAB/S AND SEEMED SATISFIED

WHEN WUSLAB/ 1 REMARKED THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY NOT GO AGAIN FOR SOME

+ 200-6-357/3

CS COPY

201-352665

SECRET

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

SECRET

144698

2207). 2

PAGE: TWO

LiOS ECREI

TIME:

POUCHING DETAILS THiS MEETiNG.

S. FILES : 200-6-337/3 AND 201-332665. GP-1.

SECRET

4916

d39

0L

32. W8"3t

---

## Page 4

35.

311611

Wil/ CUC/OPS

Ex?:

HHNC0G-01S

PA"E:.

4164/1325

25 November 1970

CABLE S, CRETAFIAT LSSEBINATION

BY_:

SECRET

FILE. VR.

(Classic

SECRET

T3

Г

I NO INDEX

fir. iN CS, FILE NO.

(dale and time the

271672 i te

INFO

"TIPIC DONOPS AUROSE VUSLAB

RETURN TO - 2-. BRANCH

- file so suri Price.

CITE DIRECTOR

0909587

1.

PLEASE ADVISE. IF MUSLAB-I'S AUSTAFF CASE OFFICER

ARRINGED TO TURY NUSIAB-1 OVER TO OTHER ANSTAFFER. ALSO

HOULD APPRICINTE LATEST INFO OY HUSLIS-I'S NEXT ASSIGNNENT

WITH HIBASTE.

2.

FILE:

•201-332665 AND 200-6-337/3.

END OF MESSAGE

IS.

MICROFILMED

DEC # 9 1970 %.

DOC. MICRO. SER.

AC/NII/COG

4

wrilclops

/ C/DOT/L

1. 200-6-33713

63 6077

RELIASING CFFICER

COORDILATING CFFICENS

SECRET

WILLIASS V. BROS

C/WID

27N2119701

$01. 332665

CADIOT

AUTHCRTICATINO

inita dissire.

REPRODUCTICH BY DUNCA THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROMDIED.

COPY NO.

---

## Page 5

DISPATCH

CLASS FRANCH

SECRET

Chief, N

Wl Division

Chef, DO Division:

Chief of Base,

STAT C AXOTE TIPIC TVORSE MUSLIE PESTIRY DONOPS

WUSHARP request for assistance

ACTION RIGUID

RIARINES

Action Required:

For Jour Information

Reference

CRY 05E A 12 0:5K

2989

1.

On 14 December 1970,

the undersigned visited WUSHARP

at the latter's request and had the following discussion.

WUSHARP asked whether we could use HU'SLAB/1 asa means of

cort acting

officials for the purpose of establishing

lies which could later be exploited by WUSHARP assets.

ro adoot a passive role

adopte passive role. in relationship to his instructer

contacts, and to respond only to contact initiarea vy the

NESHARP stated that they understand our point of view

thoroughly.

..2=

At this meeting I briefed KISHARP on the telephone

call from L

representative cited in reference.

I told

WUSHARP that I would give them a memorandum on this as

well

as a copy of the PCQ On

(201-332665)

in which they expressed definite interest.

JO:

BENSON.

Distribution:

Orig and

1

— C/WH

2 - C/DO •

CROSS RETREAKE TO

"200-6-337/3

DOPATCH STODDI AND NUMBER

UNCA - 6085

CLAISAMATION

SECRET

+ 201-33266

1 6 DEG SC

15 December 1970

HIS FILE NUMBLE

200-G-337/3

---

## Page 6

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

TOJAL COPIES'

SECRET

ROUTING ANDRE

ORIG:

UNITS

ExTi

NATE:

SIl/COG/OpS

7111/1819

27 MAY 1970

CALE STCRETARIAT DiSSCHINATION

wDrA

- PER.

CONAS

16 FiLE, VR.

(classification)

SE CRST

TO

Г

• INDEX

FILEIN eS FiLE NO:

O RETURN TO

D. FILE RIO

(pical

(date end umo Hell

20 10 51 2liTI CITE DIRECTOR

13271

NILMIAMI

RYBAT TYPIC DONOPS AMROSE

REFS:

:DEX

A.

7800 (IN-090897)

038015.

Bo: UNDV-3230, 15 SAY 70

WITH ONE EXCEPTION ALL PERTINENT AVAILABLE

INFORMATION ON

_AVAILABLE AT HQS

WAS FORWARDED TO ADDRESSEES WITH REF B. EXCEPTION CÖNCERNS

TOP SECRET REPORTS FRO!! INERGO ON

-OPS INVOLVING

EMPLOYEE OF

AND POSSIBLE.

OP AGAINST

THROUGH TIIS SOURCE OF MIS.

BELIEVE CURRENT LNERGO HOS INTEREST IN

IS POSSIBLY

DUE TO OUR RECENT FRODDING THEM FOR ANY INFO THEY SUY HAVE

DEVELOPED ON ILIN THROUGI THEIR INVESTIGATION THIS SOURCE..

FYI: HQS IS ALSO CURRENTLY LOOKING AT

AS PRIORITY

TARGET BECAUSE OF LARGE NUMBER OF PRESENT AND FORMER JKZANCE

ASSETS WIIO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH HIM (SEE REF B):

2. CÓNCUR TIAT SUBJECT BE MADE PRIORITY CASE FOR AJOTS.

/CONTINUED/

CS COPY

RELFASING OFFICER

COORDIPATING OFFICERS

SECRET

Greluenan:

66036-39m18

declassancasion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED.

201-332665

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

COPY NO

---

## Page 7

0:1109

UNITA

DiTI

DAIC

ĐY

CONT

CADLE SECRETARIAT DiSSIMINATION

_PER.

TETAL COPIES

SECRET

D NO INDEE

• O FILE NO

C-FILE IN'ES FILE NO. .

(classical

SECRET

(Balo and time filed

(01180),

(reference numbon"

CITE DIRECTOR.

037015

Г

PAGE, 2

HOWEVER, SUGGEST THAT BASE SAY WISH TO DISCUSS POSSIBLE

COORDINATED FOUR-PRONGED APPROACH. TO

AS A TARGET.

FIRST IS ANOT APPROACII. SECOND, JKLANCE DEFECTORS AND AGENTS

VITO KNOW SUBJECT, THIRD, INERGO ASSETS. FOURTH, LNERGO'S

ABILITY TO ENTRAP SUBJECT AND HIS CURRENT ASSETS IN LEGALY

ACTIONABLE ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND. APPLY CARROT OR STICK

ULTILATUM, CAY BASE ASCERTAIN WLAT, IF ANY, ACCESS AGENTS

LNERGO NOW HAS

EXTENT OF LOCAL LNERGO

KNOWLEDGE OF

ALSO, CAN BASE

ASCERTAIN IF LVERGO "TARGET STUDY" IS FOR PURPOSE OF DEFECTION,

RECRUITHENT IN PLACE, OR DOUBLE AGENT OP?

3. FORL

PLEASE PROCESS NOT STUDY SOONEST,

ADVISE WHICH OF JKLANCE ASSETS NENTIONED REF B STUDY ON

CAN BE VILIZED THIS CASE FOR ASSESSIENT OR APPROACH,

AND MAKE SUBJECT AND HIS FAMILY PRIORITY REQUIREMENT FOR NEXT

AMANVIL DEBRIEFING®

/CONTINUED/

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

"TROUPT

Encluded tors aulomatie

SECRET

eclarantec stion

REPRODUCT -I BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I PROHIBITED.

" AUTHEMITCRTIN

"OFFICEN

"Tory Do.

---

## Page 8

ORide

UNITE

DATE

CABLE SICRETARIAY DISSEMINATION

BY.

ZONF

MISSAOF FORM

TUlL COPIE

_SECRET

[] NO. INDEX .

I RETURN TO - BEANGH

• FILE RIO

(classication)

SECRET

(religença number)

CITE DIRECTOR * 37015

7

-(pica)

(dato and tumo thod)

то-?

4..

FILE:

PAGE 3.

201-332665.

END OF NESSAGE

7

NIl/COG/Comment:

*Réferenco, attached, concerns FBI request

for AlOT support in proparing target study, and probably

a defection attempt

DO/I/B?

WILLIAN V. BROE

C/WHD

C/DO

C/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

-Cr52:3122-2

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINI

OFFICES

cory Na

...?...

---

## Page 9

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMNATION

PERSON LANT NOTVIRO

ADVANCE COOT

Brorrio

CLA -IFIED MESSAGE:

•TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

88+61779 841798669,

(When Filled In)

REPROOUCTICA

OF THIS.CODY

Dies" O'no

CLASSIPY TO CA TRINO.

O RETUAN tO

Lai

PACE 1 OFE

ACTION UNTY

245

FILE, VR CAULSO

IR?!

215

ADSTRACT

SECRET 262038Z MAY TO CITE

7800

DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI

RYBAT TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE

FOLL FOR WOMACE INFO ONLY.

20: WHILE RECOGNIZING THAT JKLANCE PROGRAM TO UNCOVER

RELATIVES AND FRIENDS OFL

OFFICIALS ASSIGNED ABROAD HAS

NOT AS YET PROGRESSED TO EXAMINATION OF

OFFICIALS

_

LOCAL LNERGO INFORMALLY HAS ASKED IF SURVEY COULD

SE MADE ASÄP

60897

LOCAL LNERGO HAS

RECEIVED DIRECTIVE FROM ITS HOQS TO COMPILE DETAILED

REPORT ON

•AND

HIS ACTIVITIES AND FORWARD TARGET

STUDY" TO LNERGO HQS.

BECAUSE OF PREVIOUS AMANVIL/I AND

OTHER REPORTING ON

AND BECAUSE ME NOT NOW MARRIED,

LNERGO HOQS APPARENILY FEELS HE SHOULD BE PRIME TARGET FOR

APPROACH. LOCAL LNERGO QUITE WILLING INFORMALLY COORDINATE

ACTIVITY WITH BASE. THUS, WOULD APPRECIATE WHATEVER INFO

ADDEES CAN PROVIDE, AS TO ANY LEADS TO

VIA RELATIVES

OR FRIENDS WHO MAY BE IN U.S. AT PRESENT.

3.

DO GUTT

SECRET

201-332665

---

## Page 10

MESSAGE

SECRET

iN ORADAR PAGE 2/2

PAGE 2

1800 SECRET.

4. BASE JUDGES THAT PROMPT PROVISION OF SURVEY DATA

INFORMALLY TO LOCAL LNERGO WOULD BOTH ENCOURAGE ACTION

ÁGAINST

_AND PERSUADE LOCAL LNERGO TO DEEPEN

COOPERATION CONCERNING THIS AND OTHER. OPS AGAINST

LOCAL

TARGET. THUS REQUEST SOONEST ACTION BY HQS.

5..

FILE 201-332665.

NO INdEX.

Gp-lo

SECRET.

SECRET

---

## Page 11

FBI doc

21 Mayi?0

FBI doe

11. mau 70

FBIdic.

7 May. 70

FBI doe.

4 May 70

---

## Page 12

14-00000

MEMORANDU! FOR:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

1o.

Reference is made to your previous correspondence

concerning

On 30 January 1970, there was a liaison discussion

about

at which time your representatives

advised that your bureau planned to laterview

on ал

and that there vere signs thatl

He recognize that the

case le an internal security responsibility

of the Bureau but, to assist us

in our efforts to assess

It would ke appreciated 11

aáy acquire in the future.

He would also like to have your coments about

consideringl

as a potential penetration of the

There is the possibility that

be'used to assiet in approaching

118, Рor:

refused to cooperate as a double

later if internal security considerations warrant an

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

James ANGLETON

CIOL-00061-70

880

---

## Page 13

SESHET

2

DDP/WIL/CUG/OPS

21 April 1970

"Distributton:

Orig & I - Audressee

1 .= C/CI

in/coG/oPs

FILE:: 201-860915

SEBRET

---

## Page 14

Wisis-5097.

29 Aur 70, dilt. 5

EXTRACT AND CROSS REPLACHCE

LATING

2011-

-?37/3

SOURCE 1RO.:4110%

SoURCE CRITELY

EVALUATION

WISTARS

TEXT OF EXTRACT CATEG

Pecting on 10 Ar 70;

report. dated 13 Apre

dori distribution, Dises. No."

Production:: HUSL:B/1 said: tint

had, phoncd him at his hose at about 1100 on 8 April.

that a friond had described to him an acquaintance who hnä had

can eye problen sinilai to lUSlAb/l (or words to that effect),

that Viera now

realized

the seriousness of the case and

that NUSLAb/1 would not be able to travel.

Vicra said that

the chanecs were now remote that lic would be returning to

A friend of his naned

ould contact WUSLAB/1.

He did not say when or where, but it would be when circumstances

WUSLAB/1 asked if

might be assigned to another

foreign country.

did not deign to answer this question.

3.

I asked NUSLAB/1 what he considered the possibilities

ecruiting

'He thought an important factor would

liking of comfort and security.

He would not be

notivated by nones,

but he did like good living.

He also pro-

bably did not like

und would not like to str

here for a very long poriod. Wl thought that if

came

out to a country such as

that contact with him could

casily be developed. In the Unitca States

was on his

Also in the. United States

did not have high level

contacts with the local goverment, whereas in other countries

he would be expected to have such.contacts.

Some of tiose con-

tacts might then be also in contact with U.S. officials and you

could get a cross-check on

I told WUSLAB/l that we would

finish the PCQ fora on|

the nest time we get together.

Indicate The Subject,

Project Or

201 File No. In Which This

Form Is To Be Filed.

SÚBJECT OF 201 (IA88.

First. Middio) o

201-

(7-481

IRM

867

SECRET

---

## Page 15

138035

san L98

480?

•ON ITINI MAOS SIMA 3711

HOTINION TENIAE

он 8710.iн.

ĐB 0304745A021*

NOILISOASIO INЗAЛDO0

8180-11

NO OSANMINISSIO •01

POLIVATRAS O OIMI DO PARO •O MAROLIANO ISANOS L

BANG :0)

SONARIO SINOS DO MOSTENTE

"ON 371+14.

DIA BINA OL CINTE SEOS

O3S53008A DAVO •0

15A7890

NOBAVOIDIINJOE 14300300.

1335,80S.:

13893S

---

## Page 16

WELLSH

Die dary Classics

1J1.s

. Ат.

5408r.23

UNIT

D211

62!

And t 10 is 018: 913.

O the no

ADICIA

SECRET FUZLISZ OPTIL 7O CITE

I"FO DILECTOR

ISOLOG PESUMEr WUSLAB

2574

REF:

17515(1N052816)

:10..

PHONCD WUSLASAI MOREING

ô APRIL,

SAID NOST LIKELY WOULD NOT BE RETURNING TO

U"DERSTOOD MATURE WUSLAS/I'S HEALTH LOULD PREVENT

VIS TRAVELLING.

HIS FRIEND

HOULD CONTACT.

"USLARI.

GAVE NO DETAILS FUIUNE CONTACT,

_DID NOT ANSUER HUSLAR/I'S CUESTIO" AS TO WHETHER

VE WOULD BE ASSIGNED AYOTHER POST OUTSIDE

•30 LOCAL LUCAGO DELIEVES

"AY DE

14.°8

- FILET

M: 251-327053 AND. 209-5-337/3.

SECRET

49%

piel

201-3326065

sp-l.

SE

RET

---

## Page 17

lumino, i

FBI dae.

30. Mar. "70

---

## Page 18

046022

DRO.

2E208

12122÷GEO

Jali's.

107.

113.105/M

N72--1027407173

A 97 case

Maddocua

2092.2062:221

Caro: MUs:

axi, cabared so exprepairde 103 tiled, and cos

parriagi ?

B.

C.

DEd

10:02

8103

20

*, *

775?S

_7975

01s copy 00088.10°

pecials oi

Tho 1n.0-

Taxon

vac. obtrined by

• theo dispatch cre

03 the MillEr coriotine

mad aCcivitics in

Digna testocration tae

1011005

via Trickenee

the Cai

Vil Horcianed Co

of to icinchod have woon geceed by riGhter in tie

leon? core fero lord bob:cat

20720 mio Do nanton of the 1n0

to incie

/continuou

Aetrol condo:

Mine-ibugdon:

of retacinenta, 1/

• Cois,

acincients, it.

Chide, DO Division, so citcetiorta

salette al

DISPATON STREIL ACID RU.0i7

UN: 1201)

CASINCATiON

312

DATE

23 1crch 1073

MES FIE ALMORA

16-5-105/3

---

## Page 19

DiSPATCH

- 3

wtaa"n

cip,

rhlorhid

Nai On

i.o0

amricordo disda.":

:oc.

Jniotenà Codida Pir0 Lii

sdees

nrcna

tho drcbrad Cuisie dd

tãs cocavito,

nod oill dero idà &èõäo^2à

(9

¿ana"

Moirt Dea vaxcoa

conincs ttda

Manon douss Cualdchiit dand sn cac

fio duritoó bio cain ailasio).

Tr tho aecrcbod inx

2itám 03

Jaro tão "asaio

4010. Gho raadco-Cini coe knova ieuaacio Xnvolvansat

11::*

n. die

G.

"'e Mul-jara

"iriro" rad de esrohod saoot, 28G"irr boile:o:

Maldi wv ba ppecon da loe vodo "tOoc" Vas hece se eaat

0330. 43101

d-:1550

8÷c.

USE SI:

Paus i3. rica

CLASSIF

SaCH

•XDN.

TiKsl cONrIMEO

- FA:TNI

2

......

---

## Page 20

Jaild 00dres0200 02 40d0 60 Tien Any 113it. 01 Cn0 Cro

sCondie or 1g00 to tould bi nose and resee•

aven it this is non

peacon bore anderiniso

209-10005)

10]"

175)

1910%:

07302)

2: 530

CEDISITIEATICN

S

" DACE NO

---

## Page 21

40D9-4841

a Malanne

Recruitnent Targets.

the möst vulnerable of the

Subjectircly, Source considers that

because he lilies she ladies and the material things in

because of his strained rolationship with

becnusc he is basically a good sórt and a realistic

As stated; this is' subjcctive rcasoning on source's "part.

Replacement Personnel

avIng soong.

there is talk

about assigning one

a replacement for one or the other.

negro, in his early

and has served in several African posts

(including

Tanzania and Nozanbique)

Thas been protected by

but is disliked. by most MINREX

types who know him. Source described

a sly and suspicious

person who would not hesitate to report on anyone,

including his

friends and neighbors.

is believed to have been deeply in-

volved in various "wars of liberation" in Africa.

originally under consideration as a replacement for

but it was finally.

decided to leave

here as there were advantages to his being

à U.S. citizen.

Source also mentioned that one "AGEO" (a war name; real name not

Known to Source) was under consideration for assignment heré. Source

said that

was in charge of

the purge within MINREX in 1967 which resulted in

the ouster of some 300 persons regarded as homosexuals, counter-

revolutionaries, or incompetents.

1NDA- 454,

767ka270

---

## Page 22

SUBJEC

SECRET

filled 10)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION:

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH •JA SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

A. DATE

F. SOURCE CRYPTOMING: DATE OF INFO:

TO. EVALUATION

DATE PROCESSEO

T0: DISSENIRATED 19

TA. DATE

DOCUMENT: DISPOSITION

'TRANSFERREO TO

PERTINENT INFORMATION

FILE IN 201-3-32665

•FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

PORN 867 USE PARVIOUS SORTIONS.

SECRET

19-461

---

## Page 23

2.

PHOS 10 FUNG

Fill 1B S61

in hard Detach hock dap

and forward lo KIl).

Destroy hont cover sheet, unlise it records

signihaandreton laken or corments sequip-

in prescrata.

ROM:

RID/

..:209

TIT

Lide

:.

RUSS CI-T

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECHERO

TO ACTION BRANCH

1l lie no

end the shinin die ne proper,

insuri propos-file no boloss and lossard

deumont to MID/AN.

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

FILLIN SECTION| ONLACK I ANFHOFHIATE

FATTIALS

)..

13 aju:

6.

в.

21 ар.10 1

MICROFI

MIcro.

PIiR.

C

C

13.

14.

15.

1 6.

28437

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

6100

UST PEllIOUS

A DATIONS

ABSTRACT

PAiDEN

3

FILE TITLE

FILE SUNGERE RIVERYCODEI

200-1-52

DOEUVENT DATE

DOCUMENT AUMBER

UNDA 04834

2y426г %6

SECRET

1a01

---

## Page 24

14-00000

DISPATCH

&ICK11

Chief, til Co6

1S/O.

180:

Chaet of Slation, WhAt, Chiof, Domestic Operati

1:

Chief of Hase

SUBRY TETE NOSE DESERTS

•(" Transmittal of

Listing for New York

ACION RECUICEO - COLKINGS

PASS DACE BANG

NO INCLING 1O22ID

CAN JUDGE DANISNE

Action Required: TYI

REF:

. DINCCTOR 018607

I During a visit to the Base on 20. March 1070 the Headquarters

officur mentioned in paragraphs of the reference icquested that the

Base pouch to loudquartors a listing

of all curtently assigned personnel

Attached herewith for WICOG and WyMIAMI-

irc one copy cach of the monthly listing erepared by the local LNERGO

official and his dependents. (the latter

may be here or back

suurd showins each Thanges are not recorded in this calegory.

2.

This listing is as of 3. Murch 1970; it remains valid with the

exception of

who

departed PCS on 7 purch.

The "Pct."' number indicates in which police precinct

official resides.

- Attachment:

As stated • Para 1 - h/W.

Distribution:

2 - Chief, WIVCOG, w/att. h/w.

2

- Chief,

WH/MIAMI,

w/att. h/w.

2 • Chief,

DO, w/o att.

Mc40r:50

APR 2

1970

63:8 8

delta 19?

13 COPY

DISPATCH SYNCOL AND NUNGER

UNDA- 4834

CASSINCATION

SECRET

DATE

23. March 1970

MOS ME HUNGER

+ 79-500-260-4.52

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 27

. .

.-etr"".

d? a.

---

## Page 28

+ 104-10180-10050

---

## Page 29

10: lo Pi:

10.

%.

1911990)

laul cade che lle de il transion

datico.

TO

80011

NO

bole

in Truis

0111: 111.

(

BURKE

3 9

17080

capito

Pilo

10.

FED 17 1970

•INCrO. 2312.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

TT.

RACE

MiSTRART

610:1

14 6 133/3

UNar. 04769

12. FEB 20

MOti

C

C

D

---

## Page 30

he!'

Cose E004as Chiel, no

Achin: Chici

TSTH/02.000/00066

MA: 11!.

Intercon Precided to A22801/1

1: 10.11:1

.. 1.

Tramomiled hercuith as an articiment to this

dispatch are one cops cach. 1oxC/1/005 and COS/ll

2.. Copics of the attached have boon passed by FIGALAN

to the

Jocal LILIGO

office.

"ELGIN" is the local code name

used botween this Base

and LNERGO to designate AiANVIL/l.

The attached should be extencied to the appropriate

files.

To facilitato: this the

201 numbers arc listed below:

(201-330002)

(201-824375)

(201 816439)

(201-328963)

(201-039995)

(201-818505)

1(801-340061)

(201-612130)

All but

personnel

FNCROFLVED

FCC 1'7

Doc. Elicio.

Atincient:

Il/w

Debricling Results (5)

Distribution:

2-N6/CO3 w/att

2- WIL/MIAMI w/att

CARACH 55007:512.12

UNDA -1761

Busties:

2-D0 w/o att

DATE

11. lcbruary 1970

NOS THE 1: 0.692

18-6-133/3

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 33

-e1""

jitra.nd

---

## Page 34

14-00009

weae

Pastee

é'.eicanao"

SECrEa

---

## Page 35

14-00000

---

## Page 36

14-00000

as amalled 8821001.63

ASiANCE COPY

Disco

InT COMES

C156.

55(022l11.) ° 73

I SHOONGIN OF

00tx Ors

CRANEY TO CO PiLINO.

#-FIRT TO CS FI.ENO. M

401118 849+97 1 18 4

ACTANTE

c/u1L8

Ac Toy to.

143

SE

BER.

BIRANCH

000:26% dA!: 76.CITF

7392

(CT I:G)

MISS CION INFE. LN

MYCAT TYFIC ArOSE

DOrOPS

PEF. MIRECTOR -CrOUCI

ASE OFFICES FIGALA: HAS DISCUSSED

SUAD RAF, MID HER DOS HOLE WITH LOCAL LIEFCO

(FFIO".

• BOTE LACUGO

FIELD CFFICE MANOLA"C

CASE. LOCAL LEPRO DULY DO PERIPUSSY, ALTEOUER AP

OFFICEF

FA CH

TAS OF MID JALIARY 72.

FASE: MILL CONTING ICITCE

CASE TRADUCH

LOCAL LADIES, BUT COULD APPRECIATE MORS CONTINUING

FORGED TO US ALL LATFEO FDOS DISCENE THIS CATTEP.

?.

FILE 241-354315

SEFET

259- 332655

23J: l. 0 15755

SOCnOr

---

## Page 37

FBI dọc (X-ref.)

26 Jan. 'sn

---

## Page 38

FRIdoC.

ia Deu. 69

EBE doc: (X-re/)

9 Dec. 69

---

## Page 39

IT:

ATS:

18F:

rain. create

.285

13. GA: 70

CAPISE iN GS FILENO.

(6i6101631.01)

SECRET

:323 322.1020

223206A09000231

2722,

1x. - p.

(alite)

iratoranca nurbor)

CITE D:SSCTC8

092301.7

Irish File

FVI

•INFO.

WIL/STAMI

RYBAT - TYPIC AUROSE

1. INERCO, INS REQUESTED ANY INFO THAT COMES TO RUROCK'S

ATTENTION RE TRAVEL AND ACTIVITIES OF IDENTITY

REPORTEDLY PLANNED FOLLOWING TRIP TO

SHE HAD EIGIT DAY RESERVATION AT UNNAMED HOTEL. THEN PLAYED

FOUR DAYS

PRIOR TO RETURNING

2. SUDJ TRAVELED

RETURNING 25 MAR GS. IS PRESENTLY IS CONTACT WITH KNOWN

OSTICER

(COPY OF 201 BEING

POUCHED

TM #S076583)•

3.

SAME INTO AND REQUEST GIVEN 1U, LNERCO REPS AT ACTION

ADDRESSES BY THEIR HQS. PLS DO NOT QUERY LOCAL LIAISON.

4.

FILE 201-860915.

END OF MESSAGE

FELIASINO OFFICEA

CCOraINATINO CFICERS

SECRET

tari

---

## Page 40

*C:

Didix

.6010n1

SECRET

0:0 1548

- as

JAF:

(diadaflassion)

SECRET

PAGE 2

200/2M/0

.J/3

E/IB/S

C/AF/COPS/CI

C/AF/2/SA

DC/WE/1

IV/Sa0/10/0

HA/ 510/10/0

DO/I/B2.

(10/15/3/0

ISOLANO DAIST

COORDINATINA OFFICERS

SECRET

CITE DISSCICA

(roteiance sunder)

• 002301

7

(НЕсІр)

(770Iр)

(2IBIр)

(7J8.Iр)

(эдеяр)

(770.1р) .

WILLIAY V. BROE

C/WHD

AUTHIATICATING

---

## Page 41

ROUTING ANDION INITIALS - EIF% GY

ORIC:

UNIT:

EXT:

DATE:

HA/COG/OPS.

1255

13 JAN 70

CABLE SECTAIINT DISSEDIRATION

GY come

dib

CONF:

MECHAGE FOFS!

"TIJA: COAL.

SECPE

(closuitcation)

To

Г

BINDI*

D'FiLE IN CETILENO:

deciders

¿dato and torna lited)

i3 23 322J0110

• BRANCH

• FILE RIO

lolital

balarance muentary

CITE DIRECTO 0 2 3 0 2

INFO • WH/NIANI

RYBAT

TYPIC AMROSE

REF: DIRECIOR 002301

IDEN:

END OF MESSAGE

C/E/FI/CI

RELEASING OFFICER

C/WH/COG

C/EUR/BC

E/F

E/IE/S

C/AF/COPS/CT

C/AF/2/ SA

DC/WH/1

C/C1/0P57)

C/CI/OPS/1

DO/1/132

CODFOINATINGiOFFICERS

(drart)

(draft)

(draft)

(draft)

SAOUP

C/WHD

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICIA

•SECRET

1ts1911.i9a1/m

REPRODUCTION SY OTILA THINY THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

---

## Page 42

109:

13Y53S

,B. 1.B099

13

$89÷0 VAND

MINAN 12 8923000

27541-5-67

10000140001N93009 : 111

* SCIA:

ROZSEZA.GEW

0021ON28100

15,-70;

3014

87181378$

•I.!

31

S't

Talk

6961 T $ 190

2739

= 1911200!

(891980137

11419696881NOTIS

500іоноль 110.01

•"1111.01008.

119111

HD01: 188

P0000-24

---

## Page 43

:P163020. 2118802

1(61)

Arling (On

і пист

ACTINO PIQURLD SOFERENCES

Action Required: Extract for appropriate 201 files

Refs: 2./LM01-1015,

LNDA-1676,

14 October 1969

14 October 1969

1. Attached herewith for C/w/COG and COS/WIl

,are two copies each of three memoranda concerning results

of an ll October 1969 deletering of ANCLOCK/I by Howard G.

FIGALANI

The noting

WIth ANCLOCK/1 was necessarily briot,

and; thus

the results

are not as extchsive

as those. forwarded by

the two referenced

dispatches (from a G October meoting witl ANCLOCK/1).

TA M C the monin, has been passen

our cxisting

informal arrangement.

"ELGIN" is the code name for A:CLOCk/1

as used between

the Base and LNERGO here.

3.". Items should be extracted for the appropriate 201 files.

Howard G. FIGALAN

Attachmonts:

As stated above

Distribution:

Orig. 8'1

- Chief, WII/COG, w/atts.

2

- COS,

2

• WH/MIAMI, watts.

- Chief, DO, wo/atts.

MICROFILMEO

OST 3 1 1969.

DOC. MICRO. SER.

ATT

CHOSE REFERENCE TO

COPE

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UNDA - 1681

CLAIIJICATION

R: YuB.:A

T

SECRET

DATE

23 October 1969

HOS FILE NUADER

19-6-133/4

8.'

---

## Page 44

51.

---

## Page 45

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 46

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 47

SUBJECT OF EOCURENT

SECRET

Fellad fas

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

GATE

PROCESIEO

I3. CROSS REFERRED TÓ THIS FILE

R$ FILE NO.

9. DISPATEN OR SOURCE DOC.

%. SOURCE CRYPYONYMID. DATE OF iNFO.

TO. DISSEMINATEO AN

11. DATE

•DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

TRANSTERIEO TO

81 FILE N0..

PERTINENT INFORMATION

BATE

EVALUATIO

R 6910300759

FILE IN 201-332415

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

BENN

867

SECRET

17 - 801

---

## Page 48

tatione

-Chiere 10/003

116.10::91"::

fiei F9

182

Retarity Roporta, 1iuly. - 30 Seateaber 3569

Action Reguirod: FYI, aid ebourneting to appropriato 201 r1105

roforonco: UNDA-1503, 10 July 1969

Trananittod horo:iti for Chici, WI/CCG,

aro 0n0

copy orch of

tha rionthl

Inctivity reporto proparod by tuo undorcignad con

tho official

ior tio nontho of July, hugust, and

targot

Sopto bor 1989.

2.

s cucconted thet sbatracto bo sincod in tie

npproprinto 201 11lọ3.

Aterchmont:

Coporto, no dintod abovo

Dirititbution:

OriE.

•Chiof,

TIl/COG,

v/etta

Chio1,

T/o/r.tts.

8 = Coso tm/ett, v/atts.

• 0012.29

anit

CAlE

21 0ctoline 190.

J10-500

---

## Page 49

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 50

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 51

14-00000

S.460200X9902082708309008

---

## Page 52

....?

---

## Page 53

14-0000

SECRET

Filled day

DOCUMENT. TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUNJECT OF COCEREST.

Ber: AP 64 8:994

ANALY BY

G. DATE PROCESSED

TIE: CROSS REFLARED PO IMIS FiLE

RI FILE NO.

?. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL »0.

P. SOURCE CRYPTONYME. DATE OF INFO.

10. DISSEMINATED IN

TIT. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

18.

TRAGSFCRAED TO

#I PiLE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMALION

*. DaTE

RVALUATION

UFA

R 6910311045

FILE IN 201-332645

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

SECRET

19-481

---

## Page 54

"rantoitt"

1111:90ri

eee dorade Di cnrle deardbe llerge

end lrone l do bil9.

11:

lreeti droed choode miod

nt 2680adl

•ig nil.

.nl oclee ie dérioore de eocente 39

inop peuis aocdloais

Lrrni:

RID/ 5D

= rosemigidlit

De tele asoe oudde daiidlindne didie dedd prregiand.

ja;e il peoper lile

a.u. deateni oinl luiditeet

hemment Alo.aieceD

RRET9

TÜ MLi NODIESGTG

TeTaoenord Oittad is drorormie

C6051423

TO

fuillig

ayle/ope

BiOON

oe 10.

kittic

orasraos

29 084

Luci

NICROFILMED

OCT 2 8 1969

DOC. MICRO, SER.

ouc

•Beany erone s aean st airs

copyrcmionet

Le süc?

IA/1

RYBAT

Eile

1%.

5733-

TAACE

AIQUEST

UATT ARCHOTI2S 6

ANGINACT

INUFX

81Cs

MLATTEE

-att sumarrom

TTNTDATE

14-6-133/4

AU:DA 04675

1yoil 69

SSCHET

C

C

C

---

## Page 55

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 56

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 57

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 58

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 59

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 60

SECRET

Filled/agr

DOCUMENT TRANSFER ÄND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJEC

•AI FiLE: NO.

SPATCH OR SOURCE DOC.

SOURCE' CATP.?

DATe. or inro.

INFORMATION

FILE IN 201-333tcta5

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM

8+40X

867

SECRET

---

## Page 61

filtre

DOCUMENT- TRANSFER AND OSOSS DEFERENCE

Siguier

COCURANT

IDENTTFICATIGN

"RI FILE NO.

DATE PROCISSIO

3400.

* CLERNRISSIO CON

soriorias.

alcoin de siro alansidos sabros e

#: DITE

PLATINENT INFRAVATION.

FILEIN 20T 332665

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO..

4-59

867 MAE PRE

SECRET

18-48.2

---

## Page 62

FBI die

30 Jule: 69

xi.

a anico en uni cómia cido destacando ord ciamente dictatiani tole

---

## Page 63

33 JON REST

ASSIGNED AGER!

As fipe i

NA:6:

AKA''S

DATE & PLACE OF

SEX *

CITIGENSHIP;

FOREIGN TRAVEL & DATES:

IDENTIFICATION 'S

ADDRESSES:

OCCUPAFION & 'EMPLOYMENT & DATES.

RELA'IVCS:

24

-UN

1969

---

## Page 64

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 65

14-00000

CUSt

22:S9

2-:

'"re

S2gi3 in

1d:s

20sd

Mando Si

os tro Goreariant o

FauX

B5I2 Joias,

second

Tre

sirie de

Cacia,

"hangh!"

13.Sept. 1963

#rico A-336

UNELASSIFIED

---

## Page 66

BONE C0 4003 1051

savana, doy, 15 day бi

Pudro farza, Cuban déleçate to tie Centerary colubration 0f

thê lational accusy of taxico, has Interiorea upoo has rathe

to Havana.

The sost important every at the coicbration, he

told reposters; was his recting with US scientist Ilnus Pauling

who wishes, to visit Cuba..

SOLIVILI DELEGATE TO LISOR DIY CELEBRITION LAUDS REVOLUNION =

paulino nito Colle, scerctury for forcion affairs of the

horare workers union of Canton Coyard, raza Province of

Ic Pez Departeent, Solivad, praised the Cuban Revolution asd

brarded as falso the propagands egolast it.

He is o beaber of

the Bolivion delegation to the Cuban celebration of labor Day

which locluded Alcjandro Silva and Mario Cortes.

SECOLD SECRETARY RETUS TO BRAICO CITY POST - Havana, HOy,

17 2ạy 64

13F

Roge110. Balziguez,

topez, second secretary in the Cuban

Ecbassy in dexico,

lest Havana by plare for lexico City to

resure his post.

ANPASSADOR TO UN DEPARIS FOR NEW YORE - Havena, RevOlucion, 19

isy 64

Ambassador to tre UN Carlos N. Icchuga, accompanied by bis

wife Gladys isudemen ind daughter Mirian, left Havana for

New York City to resume his post on 18 Say.

STAGER TOURS CONCUNISE CARLA CITIES - Favaza, Revolucios, 19

Nay Eli

Cuban singer Vira- Acevedo, who sang in various cities in

the Sovict Unioz, is currently sprcarina In various citios in

Communist Chira such co roping,

icriing, and Shenghai.

Walle

In tre latter city, she was visitud üy Cuban students.

2DD SEE T05706ü Dat: 1G JURIE

Pross Za20 ca Cela To 15%: D06

---

## Page 67

LISTAILN

SECRET

As SO AYES

Chief ot

vales. of Station, WIMal

Chief, Testern Hemisphere Division

C TIPIC/NONOPS/AMBNDEN

Icas Aзʼс існя

8:7.70

I.

Reference your telephone reouest of 24 June 1969

requesting a photograph

which is better

tban the one appearias in the

hugbook, it is belleved

that subject of your request is

whose photograph is included in the lugbook. There is no

photograph of

Porvarded hereulth for your retention is a. photo

Unfortuately, this photograph 1

I te on Other photograpa available ate

Brug book.

• It

only other

photograph avallable at Hendquarters

3. ANOIDE-? has been sbon and has positively identified

theant tached photo

as

^4.

A-l understood that|

had been in

New York, or la Canada, 1u 1964-65.

The above informition may be passed to laverGo.

Olive S.

ECKHOLM

Distribution:

- COB

1 = COS,

att. b/v

u/o att.

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE IO

196139/4

Distribution:

- DO/I/B2

- WH/COG/OPS

(Betty)

- Originator

- RID

AB IX

7777

PS

BX-T

DES HFD

FI

Halin

1.sa

53

USE PRENEUS EDITION

DISPATER STRESS: AND A: ME: 1

. UNDY 2947

SECRBT

*WH/COG/OPS

OrRie: 5:833.

DC/WH/COG

Ca':

DO/1/B2

JAFICE SYMESA

C/DO

MOS FA NUNSIR

-8. JuR. 1900

201-332665

CRIGIANILIG

"ch

7144

ERLEASING

DISPATCH

---

## Page 68

79. 1

Dept. of State

27 Junelot

A - 151?

Re:

2 Changes in Seret B/0e Diplomatie

FBI doc. (X-Mif)

4 Dun 69

FBI do

27 maude,

---

## Page 69

POUTING A RUN" INITIA

TOTAL COPIES

ORIO:

UNIT:

411/ COG/OPS

EXT:

5061

• R.

1457

DATE: 24 APRIL 1969

CABLE SECRETAMIAT DIRSENIMATION

S-E C RET

O Inoti

• HO HOEN

SECRET

TO

- PER

WH.F

3 me. va

Do 4,

late and time biends

INFO:

25: 14 57 2 APR69

WH/MIAMI

TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE

REF.

6232 (IN 37470)

1. FOLLOWING TRACES

67:

A. t

) DOCUMENT REPORTED

PARTIDO SOCIALISTA POPULAR. MARRIED

Sinne

CITE DIRECTOR

7

96015

SUBSEQUENT SEPT

LONG TIME MEMBER

OF

B. QUTIMID 15 SEPTEMBER 68 SAID

FOLLOWING DAY IN TRANSIT TO

HE TRAVELING WITHOUT VISA BECAUSE HAD TO LEAVE

C. AMBEDEW/I REPORTED THAT

AND

THAT

IN HURRY.

SAW HIM ON 21 NOVEMBER

APPEARED THAT SOMEONE COULD

WAS GOING

NOT LEAVE

D.

ON IMPORTANT MISSION.

UNTIL HE ARRIVED.

FOLLOWING TRAVEL AVAILABLE

12 JUNE 67

67 (I);

19 JUNE 67;1

18. SEPTEMBER 67 (I);

COCROINATINO OFFICER

RELEASINO OFFICER

TAROM 67 TO PRESENT:

19 SEPT

esui.

33266+

18 SEPTEMBER

25 pens: 69

LUTHENTICATIN

FFICI

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CoM No.

---

## Page 70

ROUTING AND/ON INITIALI

TOTAL COMER.

SECRET

virty

INT:

DATI

ANN 29: 12 46 PH 964

RED EDI

O no men

FOt

I BANCHO.

RL

soone ander

SECRET

re

1967;

APRIL 68 (I);

19 SEPTEMBER 68;

_4 OCTOBER 68.

END OF MESSAGE

69 61 108

goS.

C/DO

C/WH/COG

DO/I/B2

WILL AM V.

BROE

C/WIID

RELEASINO OFFICER

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AS THEM CATTO

no one

"com na.

---

## Page 71

CABLE StERIANIAS D'SSEMINAT

DERSON UNIT NOTHIEO

BLASSIRITON

ROUTING AND'OR NTiA S- SCHA.

sorreo

SECRET

fine fulled in!

REPRODUCE.

O NO

est as eross sétaes

PCONIEIPES

101

00.9364

RETION

10/12 in.

TO-FILE. NO

MOLE NO CORt. To

PERCHO.

DEsTROY Dae

540

SECRET 22155E APR G9 CITE I

INFO DIRECTOR

TYFIC: DOMORS AMROSE.

REFE

Toes: (IN 37471)

NO STATION OR AMOT TRACES

SUBSEQUENT TO SEPIEMBER 1967.

2. FILE

201-332665.

SECRET

3630

22 APR 69 IN 4 1 615

1 te

AB--

condor

CS 6071

SECRET

16332661

22 infail 6,

---

## Page 72

CASLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

PIASONIUNIT NOTIFILO

ADVANCE SORE

ISSUEO

SLOTTI

Disson or t

ACTION UN

17-8.

98)

SSIFICO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES LE

SECRET

REPROOUCTIION OF

THIS. COPY PROMIBITED®

¿BAD DO DE

Ding no D'

Do 4, 1

AE/AN C= ORS, FE-2

16APR69 IN 37470

SE CRET 162859Z APR 69/CITÉ

DIRECTOR INFO WHA

TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE

REF

6232

4322

MISSION HAS REQUESTED VISA BE AUTHORIZED

FOR

DESIGNATED

SECRETARY

IS WELL KNOWN

"AS ADDEES WILL RECALL FROM REF

WAS ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED

FOR ASSIGNMENT HERE APRIL 68 BUT NEVER CAME •

2• REQUEST ADDEES UPDATED TRACES (INCLUDING AMOT) SUBSEQUENT

UMWAVE 9521 AND UNDW 1832, BOTH DATED SEPTEMBER

: 67.

3. FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

AT 43

Cs. COrt

SECRET

1201-332665

166-paid. 1964

---

## Page 73

2-0000

DEPARIMENT OF'STATE

REQUEST FÖR BIOGRAPHIC: DATA

TO:

CATE

CIA

dir nomos

ALIASES, NICHNAMES

MONE ADDRESS

OCCUPATION

previous crock 1/23/63

SEA

CITIZENSHIP

Ceban

NAME AND ADDRESS OF PRESENT EMPLOYER.

PREVIOUS EMPLOYERS|AND FORMER ADDRESSES (AArONSTeT, ToBI len year»l

:11l apply

for visa

20118

pl

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRIN

"aj

3, 1942

Lavana

MARITAL.

STATUS

I SPOUSE SNAME

JFFICE

Visa frice

DATE

4/16/69

HAME OF SUBMITTING OFFICER

FOR USE OF OTHER OFFICEIST OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

FOR USE OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE ONL

TYPE OF BEPARTHENT PROGRAM

-2. PoreLio (Lopez)

C561-3/42, 862.

above.

24 per bewille

201-3326651

17 APR 1969

FORM D5 - 939

9.65

---

## Page 74

FBIdie

.28 Oct. 68

-.: o.samrpsisere.

= 7$

.. .. -....

---

## Page 75

14-00000

-"TO

ROOM

NO

DATE

MiCORRLO CORRAerIss

ITNACtIAS

696145418

133

dàvi.

1aC8

1 Nodo

"iioe"

6 Necd

iListy

MICROFINED

RO: 1 1368

DOC. MICRO.CER.

sliee

14/508

: (

A NOV

$968

:3 3.

O

16.

17.

FILE TITLE

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICHOTIMED

AOSTRACT

INDEX

FILE NUNDER IPRIMAHY ÇODET.

DOCUATENT DATE 2 CC

#s cil 12ex

GOC RIENT AUSIER

JN01 04101

---

## Page 76

DISPATCH

FOCLESEN ACRON

SECRET

10.

PLATO ME NEUES

BFO.

Chief, NIL

TO NO1E:NS RIQUIAID

-Crict, 10

CHE NEEL NOEXIRO

Chief of Base

SUBJECT

TRIC/DOROPS/NICLOCK

19025T

Transaittil of Informatic.

ACLICH REQUIREO: ISFEREROLS

ACTION REQ:

Index,

if necessary; extract information to

appropriate 20l files

RES

517%

As indicated in the refcrence, the undersigned met with

Subject on 19 October 1963 for the purpose of debricting him on

itens of local interest to the Base and INERGO..

1 - 11- 5-121

1.52

DEPITON TYICO TEE TURSET

UNDA-4161

CECFCIES

SECRET

DATE

22 667011 291968

HIS FILE NUEBER 520-6 - 5 2

$19-500

---

## Page 77

-1n0n

CONMINUNTION OF

• DISPATCH

SECRET

- UNDA-1161

' TNERGO

copies of the attachment were passed to the local

SouRce office by the nders ined.

ELGIN is the code name for

ida!

Howard G.

FIGALAN

---

## Page 78

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 79

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 80

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 81

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 82

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 83

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 84

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 85

•RABLI SECRETARY CRSSTUIMATION

TAlBON/UNIT NOTITIES

DOVANCE COPY

CUSSINITO MESSAGE

TOTAL CORE

SECRET

GROUSI

(When Filled d

REPROQUETON UE TOS COF PROMISITEN

BLOTTED

He .

CLASSIFY

to it no

: #-NES TO FILE PO-

BRANCH O

WH/COG8 RID COPY

Lene. a RIAN. EURG WH8

ROUTING ALD DO IANTIALS: SEEMBE

SECRE

T. 181700 OCT• 68 CITE

DIRECT OR

TYPIC

REF

7780

K0:68161 S325

C

CIRECT OR 42495

49969:

50017

1. RE PARA 3 REF A.

POUCHING ADDITIONAL NAMES

UNDER REF C.

2. DEFER FILE.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 86

SUBJECT OF DOCUMERT

SECRET

1070.7

10l10d 10)

DOCUNENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

AN BE VET

DATE P

ROCESSED.

ІД. СРОВЯ

RI FILE NO.

HUSWATCH

?. SOURCE CRYPTONTA

1O: DISSEMIRATRO IN

DOCUMENT, DISPOSITION

119=

PERTINENT. INFORMATION

SOURCE: DOC.

SYNDOL NO.

DATE OF INTO.

DATE

DATE

EVALUATOON

WAS

HYNAT

8 6901038327

FILE IN 201.332465

• FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867 0R0 .

SECRET

(9• 48)

---

## Page 87

14-00000

akas

OUIING AND/CO MINALS • BIENNY

O11O

MESSAGE FOR

TOTAL &OP881

SECRET

KH/COG/OPS

BIT,

R1819

BATH 16 OCTOBER 1968

CABLE BACAITARLAT DISSENIMATION

7

D. ENDE

NO INDEE

DISTROY

BITURN TO

BRANCH

COMP.

WH/COG&

пеРО:

no cory

•F4%

Ve RIAN EURG WH8

(slaxalication)

SECRET

(reiarence, number)

(oing)

42495

CTIE. DIRECTOR

TO

INFO:

7z 0cr 69

7

7

TYPIC

REF:

7682 (BEING RELAYED

(IN 1341%)

I. REQUEST

CABLE NAMES AND TRAVEL DATA ALI

WHO HAVE ARRIVED OR DEPARTED

SINCE MID-SEPTEMBER 68.

2..

NOTE THAT

SEPT 68 PER

6153.

ONWARD TRAVEL

HE PLANNED ARRIVE

CONFIRMED?

ARRIVED

19

IDENTIFIED BY AMCLOCK/1 OCT 67

wOULD ApPRECIATE ANY DETAILS AVAILABLE

AFTER ARRIVAL

6211 INDICATED

16 SEPTEMBER IN TRANSIT

dAN THIS FrIE

1B

3

TO ASSIST IN EFFORT IDENTIFY PERSONS

ITS

WHO

SUGGEST SMOTH BE QUERIED FOR NAMES ALL

HAVE ARRIVED

_SINCE MID-SEPTEMBER 68.

C3 CCPY

4.. FILE 201-332665.

END OF MESSAGE

Lonello

WH/COG/COMMENT:

aSLIASING OFFICER

*Reported unknown persons conducted sweep of new

buildingl

during period 3-9 Oct 63;

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

AUTHENTICATiNG

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

SCOT NO.

---

## Page 88

ROUTING AND/ OR INITIALS - BLEN BY

MASSAGE FORM

TOTAI COPIE:

SECRET

42H9381

EXT:

САВІВ ДОСЯНІ

вт.

10

- BRANCH.

FILA RID

AT DISSEMINATHiA

RO COPY

I NO INDEN

1N90,

BILE

PAGE TWO

(date and ture litera)

O ME IN CAPE NO. DED

(a'ira)

(reterence number)

(89398601109)

SECRET

CiTE DIRECTOR

(cica)

7

TO

SMOTH requested into re possible identities of persons

- 69. 1 8 AUW

dVC

uaet...

di..

C/EUR

RELEASIHG OFFER

C/WH/COG

EUR/CUBA

EUR/BC/U

COORDIMATING OFFICERS

SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

REPRODE...il _. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFF

RANs

+ or Madrang

insistication

POHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICaL

COPY NO.

---

## Page 89

CABLE SECRITARIAT CEMIRATION

ADVANCE COPY

siOriED

OIS$EM DY.

aCTIORI

'ED MESSAGE

TOPAL CORTE

HOt

SECRET

the care

(When Filled to)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PACHIBITEO

IN DEE

D

YES O 10

CARON 10 ou 0 61: 32 CE5

B•REA TO PILE NO

PILE RiO DAEr

BRANCHO

SAF: OT

c/ile/206.5

SECRET IGTI342 OC 68 CITE

INFO DIRECTOR,

PEAT

TYPIC

REF:

6310

190ст 891 3992 1

1155

in' 04422)

QUAXE -I REPORTED DEPARTURE

§ OCTOBER.

NEITHER MET NOR ACCOMPANIED BY

OFFICIALS. QUAXE-I SAID THAT NOT IN

TRANSIT WHEN BOARDED AIRCRAFT THUS PROBABLY ARRIVED

T OR 8 OCTOBER. WE WILL CHECK QUTIMID AND

QUDOZE FOR ANY ACTIVITY.

2.

FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

7

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

Note:

If destruction.

reasons and coud...s

18 appropriate

CS COPY

SECRET

1006t68

001-332465

---

## Page 90

CADIE SECRETARIAI DISSEMINATION

PEASOWURIT NOTIF

P. "THEO MESSAGE

•ETAL COMES

nour 2 3

(When Filled Ini

• £6'6AR9I8NA1189

REPRODUCTION UN' THIS COPY PHONIDITEO

ADVANCE CORY

"ISBUED

10

BY:.

CLASSIFT PO FILE NO -

DISSEN

ACTION

A-REA TO FILE NO.

BILE RIO DART, TO

INFO

FILE. NA.

SECRET OZZIISZ OCT 68 CITE

BRANCH DO

DEsTRor O sio

C/WH-G, C/ Eup-4 C/RIFD, C/CI

1ЕбBz.

DDP, AddP

INFO DIRECTOR

203т.68 INO 4422

T/e6

Le

14/010P

*TYPIC

(12. 04307)

REFE

6211 ( NOT SENT

!. LNERGO ADVISED STATION 2 OCTOBER

TRANSITED

29. SEPTEMBER TO CATCH

FLIGHT

FROM

HER TRAVEL

INTERESTING

IN LIGHT TRAVEL

PER REF,

AND STATION WOULD APPRECIATE ANY ADDIIIONAL INFO

-7

20

CONTACT

T HEM

3.

FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

STATION FILES REFLECI

WHO HAS HAD

IN THE

PAST, AMONG

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

Note:

63 COPY

SECRET

Ii dostruetion.

1. ofte

reasons and

coontinats

if appropulato.

20.0t.68

201-332665

---

## Page 91

14-00000

CABLE SICRITARLAT DISSEMIMLATION

PERSON UNIT ROTTIED

SOTTED

DI$SE

zil

150 MESSAGE

10116: 903

SE,"

(Who. Pilla Din;

1. 8,

REPOCOUCTION OF THiS COR BOCHBiTtO

D

ve D10

CLARA 1O PLA NO ZUI-332665

PiLe ino Oner. to

PILE. VR

WH-S, Euk-6,

FE-E

S8 CITE

BRAND

CANO/OR INITIALS - SEEN aT

DESTROY O$9

SECRET @ITIZ OCT

INFO DIRECTOR

207660604307

TYPIC

REF: UNCOBRA 1122(/N 02373)

1e.

QUI IMID

15 SEPTEMBER

SAID THAT

ARRIVING

FOLLOWING DAY IN TRANSIT ICSERLUINEA

REDORT ALSO SAYS

THAT TRAVELL IS VITHOUT VISA BECAUSE

HAD IO LEAVE

JIN- HURRY. NAME DOES NOT SHOW

ON QUOTA TRAVEL LISTS.

2.

FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

7.

FS

wildler

33 COPY

SECRET

201-334665

---

## Page 92

14-00000

CABLE SECRETADIAP DISSEMINATION

PERSON URT HOTEND

ADVANCECOPY

#v:-

ISBUED

D MESSAGE

TOTAL

COPIES

SECRET we

(When Filled In!

5C.+880 869-86

REPRODUCTION OF IMS COPY DROMIBITEO

I DEE

VES O NO

ANIOR INTIALS - SERN BY

10

₴

ACTIO

S B

CAE T 3015322 SÉP

INFO DIRECTOR

X-REP TO FILE NO.

PLE DO CRET.

INTO

REAN ENR6, W48

53 CITE

1122

30S:

37 60

IN02373

TYPIC

REF:

6153(12 00361)

1.

ADVISE ANY INFO ACTIVITIES REF SUBJ AND. ONWARD TRAVEL.

- 2. FILE 201-332665

SE

CRET

1'1 8 6

AB

_IsI

DENIED

FI

-= COPY

SECRET

201-332665

30 septist

---

## Page 93

SECRET

C6:!4!. GE0

• SE CHE MADRI 5153

2S0016036 1

MARIVEC

542 SEPT 13°

51E :

€- 122-20:

SECRET

---

## Page 94

14-00000

11119 1999

ROUTING AND RECORD SiET

INS7R00H035

PHOR TO RUING

1.. Fill in Sect: 2 on back. Latel back dap

and dormaid to KID:

?.

Destray treat fuses sheet, unfer it-records

significant retion Baken or comments sequir-

and preservation

FROM: K

TO ACHO DIAUGH

It dile mo. and bile shown are eel ploper.

inserl propor tile no. below and farird

document to RID/AN.

TUTTTFRINO

KID/AU

TO: AlL ADDRISSIES

FILL IN SECOND ON BACK. IF AFFEUORIATE

COMMENTS

(.

• TO

Wil CECCe

ROOM..

NO

DATE

RECEIVIN

25 г

OFFICERS

1: l

Quinter don

NICROFILMED

SEP 2 G 1968

DOC MICRO. SEN.

big tele

9.

10.

12.

13.

18.

1 G

17.

RID,M1

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MIGHOPILAIED

6100

23

FILE TITLE

FILE PONIE & PRETARY CODED

ABSTRACE M

INDEX

•SCULTUNEA

22 Sep 1905

1:06.04116

SECRET

6801

---

## Page 95

DISPATCH

Fia Clutce WIlL

Chick, DO Division Clich of Potiva

Chief of Bass

ACTICS REQUILLO - REPLACACES

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

SECKET

2O DO ENG ELOURIO

DILT CURLING DRES

CAN JUGGE 10: A13S

MICHOIRM

MICROFILMED

SEr 26 1900

DOC. MICRO. SCR

4 The following is a current listing (as of 13 Sculember 19681 of the

officers assigned PCS

D- 19-5- in

A-100 5-11

EsBias1-90582501

donapradies est

taciens licatias

UNDA-1116'

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

SEP 23 1968

20 September 1968

NOS FILE MUMBER

• 19-500

---

## Page 96

B. co 53a

1831

VES 6!

50:11 Piranesalis

6: 1°00: 86 8:6

CLASSIFICATTEN

SECRET

IX CONTINED

PArE NO.

2

---

## Page 97

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

tradio cane a i

FORZA

D- C* 53a

1401

USE PE

CIASSIFICATIGA

SEGRET

I CONTIaza

PAGE. 1O.

3

---

## Page 98

F6I doc: (x-rif)

24 Am: 68

FBI doe

30 NoU. 67

FRIdoe

6Oct.67

---

## Page 99

dression en Mec no. 307=00/222CLS

PALE

FIR MESSAG!

SECRET

JEn 31253

int sie

122

121

Turo

C/MH/Ci6S

4 231

Cutre Drome Brooo

SECRE I 2SZLISZ CICE LOWAVE 9521

INFO DIRECTOR -

KAPUK HYPIC ANCLOCK

REF:

3355 (13 (1?6,44)

1°

FOLL ARE STATION TRACES

0201740244)% HAVY CAPTAIN

MARITIME SCHOOL

NEWSPAPER, A JAL

62) •

ACT INGS

25 SEP 87W0275 F

12:022

STUDIED Ai

FROM COMMIE FAMILY CREVOLUCION

2611008334

---

## Page 100

PAGE 2 .066NE 552: 5 F

110494

2. OHLY SIATIOn TRoCE

IS ASSIGNAENT

DATED DAY 522°

1<901-5169577

15 APH GT SENSITIVE REPORT

*AGE

C.

3

JHWAVE S521

ROGE:

---

## Page 101

14-00000

iicaut

saners

ridi iriineiainis

---

## Page 102

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 103

14-00000

,..--. ...

012R

530

FIGERG.

Il conc

---

## Page 104

td-innod

ECRGI

---

## Page 105

14-00000

URITEO STATES DEPARTHENT OF JUSTICE

Iomigration and Naturalization Service

instructions: Any handwriten entres shall be in block capital letters. All Spanist names shall be inélegated misine,

lather's name first and the mother's name followiag.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigatica

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20535

FILE NO. (1 any)

DATE

Pepto 20, 1989

The alien listed befor

has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 101 (a) 15 (A) or

section 101 2.

MIS ATE

of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

Middle initial

UNITED STATES ADDRESS Number Steal Cila State Zia Goda)

AIRLINE AND FLIGAT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL

201

3D00S

50c

Number, Streer, City, Province (Starel and Country of PERMANENT RESIDENCE

BIRTH DATE

5-3-42

ELL FIN

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION

BIRTH PLACE

NAI

Hate

Preinspection at Nassau for NYC arriv

10.42

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION

DESTI

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatery subversive intormation regarding this alieu to the F. B. I.

ce:

C.I.A.

G-2

0.5.1.

Stato Dept.

QN.1.

Deputy Associate Commissioner

Travel Control

---

## Page 106

532459-919

•801a51

TO:

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

OFFICE OF SECURITY

FMO%:

SATE:

9/15/67

5/3/1942

ANURESS

UCCUPATION AND NAME ANO GUUHESE DF ENTEOVER

Technical Assistant

ADDITIONAL IDENTIFYING DATA

CONTROL: -HE ReGura-

PLACES N

DATE

NAME OR REQUESRING OFFICER

RESULTS UF THIS REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION:

I NO RECORD

DINO DEROGATORY INFORMATION

O SECURITY INFORMATION ATTACHES

DOTHER!Use reirese side for ispo-singl

CHECKEO.EY.

TATE:

111 FOR USE OF OFFICE OF SECURITY:

and to

18/1/67

Cin

18 SEP 1967

---

## Page 107

Dept of State

272

13 бер.67

---

## Page 108

Cd:0

177 CUT/ CICS

7417/9008

2018. 15 .TEBiB

1967

53

WH/COG 8

SECRET

RID COPY

1658206 10110

TOTAL COPIES

SCUIITO AND/OR MITAS - BI8N BY

26

SECRET

Li tax l 0190r

FiLE

... Va

FILA DID

EMINesmano 201-3526652

16 23-462

INFO: JINAVE

TYPIC/WATCHLIST

REF:

1764 (IN 88532)

LASSIPACE

SENSITIVE SOURCE INFO INDICATES

YHO ARRIVED

12 JUNE 67, IS DELEGATE

CONFERENCE ON NATIONAL COSCIISSIONS

REQUEST STATION REVIEW SC WASH 65760 RE SUBJECT ACTIVITIES

AND/OR POSSIBLE TRAVEL PLANS.

WH/COG/COMMENT:

SUBJ ARRIVED

END OF MESSAGE

12 JUNE 67

(olira)

Ireference number

CITE DIRECTOR U. 1. 9.3 1

7

C/WH/COG/CICS

WH/1/MEXICO

030-332665

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

MALAASINO OFFICIA

COORAINATISE CPRiCIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED:

V AC/WH/COG

BUTHINTICATID

COPY NO.

---

## Page 109

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 110

SFCRET

Posen pillod lay

DOCUMENT TRANSFER ANO CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMINT

DOCUMEAT IDENTIFICATION

BABED TO FRIB 0I6E

SOURCE DOG.

F. SOURCE COMPPERINT

DATE PROCEASIO

O. DISRINTRATIO 1M

DOCUSiENT DISPOSITION

18.

TRADERBARRO TO

=I BILE nO.

_PEALISCE: INCORMALION

*. DATE

DaTE OF 19P0.

D. SVALUATION

1e. Date.

•FILE THIS FORM IN'FILE NO.

ELLE IN 201-3321.60

₽ 0170

Д - 89

887 506.

SECRET

18-007.

---

## Page 111

14-00000

Her Dr 009

MILE 99.

•disteor

O sie.

B.

SECRET

cosits

27

REPRODUCTION PEIMIBITES

6.7 8 0 a

WH/CCE 8

Того

I RID COPY

ADRASCE COAT

Onore Drums

SECRET 1300292 CITE MEXICO CITY OVAO

DIRECTOR, JMVAVE

TYPIC WAICHL IST

13J6 67 18 8 532

(201-332665),

RZ

ARRIVED

12 JUNE ACCORDING TO LIFIRES.

• NO

INFO AVAILABLE ON REASON FOR TRIP OR POSSIBLE TRAVEL. FROM

SECRET

BT

1758#

ABSERACE X

27 PROCESSED

20/6/6710

201-332665

13 une 167

---

## Page 112

SECRET

• STL-

O s

Escore

O RID COPY

Dio DuenD.

IS E CRET 25111S CIE

DIRECIOR INFO JEJAVE

IRIA FLE SAO ARRIVES

OFFICIALS VERES

5917

FRON

25M. 1:

21 NOV. 0/137 FaT

:46050

LE

SECRET

4:1- 3.32665

---

## Page 113

151-552665

(1.012 € a10

O miss

Hi se nets

TOTAL COMICO.

/SECRET

* 2578

are 25 Noyerber 1966

2

: 3

6-10

190

DOESTROY OMITIN TO

GIRÉCTOR.

WH/LG8/E RIO COPY

• Lilt & EuR-s, C.I/ops,

CI/IC -2, FE

ECRET

20 19 42 Z CITE DIRECTOR

55146

INFO: IMHAVE MEXICO CITY

7

TYPIC WATCHLIST

REF:

(IN 45905)

IDENTIFIED AS

OFFICER

•

2. STATIONED

APRIL 1965. BEGAN ASSIGNMENT

63. NOVEMBER 64 IDEN

1962 THROUGH

SENT

BY JCH WITH PACKAGE TO TURN OVER TO

NIO WOULD

CONTACT HIM.

IDEN CONTACTED

TO WHOM GAVE PACKAGE®

SAID ARRANGEMENTS MADE FOR IDEN GO

SAME DAY.

SEVERAL HOURS LATER

AGAIN ARRIVED IDEN HOTEL, TOLD HIM

NOT NECESSARY

GAVE HIM PACKAGE AND FIFTY DOLLARS, INSTRUCTED

HIM. RETURN

OVERLAND, PACKAGES TOO WELL WRAPPED FOR IDEN

TO IDENTIFY CONTENTS.

ALSO INQUIRED ABOUT SEVERAL

WHO ORGANIZING GUERRILLA MOVEMENT FOR JCH.

cont/

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

FELLAST BESTER

26-11

S

ECRET

Eustrand hors des

MEPRODUCTION

OPSOTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE, IS PROMOITER

---

## Page 114

14-00000

O PILE NIO

Diners.

NFSSAGE. FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

"SECRET

6

ROOM: DIRECTOR

comes

O RID COPY

• File

ICLASSINICATOT

SECRET

TONY AND THI PHONEY

FIRMLE

CITE DIRECTOR

55746

TO PAGE TWO

3. ANKNOB/1 IDENTiFIED

FROM PHOTO AS CURRENT

EARLY 65. STATED KNEW

4.: REQUEST ANY INFO ONWARD TRAVEL, DESTINATION, AND ACTIVITIES

RODRIGUEZ®

END OF MESSAGE

C/WIt/COG/CICS

WH/COG/FI

WH/COG/MO

WH/1/Mexico

E/IB/S.

C/EUR

ARLEADINO OFENCER

COCAGHATIME DIFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

or has elegante

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S

PROHIBITED.

C/WIID

OFFICER

Cary 100.

---

## Page 115

14-00000

* WIt/COG/CICS

9• 2578

1: 25 November. 1966

(7 09068

MESSAGE FORM

POPAL COPIES:

-SECRE I

101222

1-12

75.0

O DESTROY O NITURN TO -

= BRANCH

a DISESTOR

come.

HENCHMENT

SECRET

INFO: JNWAVE,

TYPIC WATCHLIST

180:

REFS: A

(IN 45905)

B. DIRECTOR:

55/06

IDEN:

CI/IC: 2 FI

29 1942 2

CITE DIRECTOR

MEXICO. CITY

NONDENT

55JA7

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/COG/CICS

WH/COG/FI

for WHI/COG/NO 22410'2000

WH/1/Mexico Seman)

B/ID/SUR

C/EUR

#ALRATION OFFICER

COOROIMATINE OFFICERS

26-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

0830

WILLIAM

PROL

C/WHD

AUTHENTICATIN®

OFFICER

---

## Page 116

14-00000

osesi Dici Oo.na

CLABIAPY

"o ti MORAl-33RWNS-LASSIFICO MISSAGE

a-iti

TO .pILE

I TOPAL COPINS

TINNMIGO

o Did ASt8pus

SECRET

LASONIUMIT ROTINIEO

DessEn 2r/ K./53

: h'ti/ecici 5

X] RID COPY

Hat t.apot

nute: Dien Din

FILE, BA, CUE F, CL, Ee/e 2j Cu/0CS;

REPRA-.*

"",')M PRONIBITES

SE C TE T 25095iZ CIIE

DIRECIO? IUFO JIUAVE

TYPIC TATCHLIST

P813

ABSTRACT *

25id- c , 45905

ARR IVEC

FRO1

S

& E

N (:247

161-352665

85 Nei, 196%

---

## Page 117

FBI doc. (X-nef)

20 Mais

---

## Page 118

DISPATCH

OASSIICATION

SECRET/K A POK

Chief of Station

INFO

SUBJICT

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

TVDTCNADAN

ACTION HE QUILL NEETUNCES

ACTION RECUIRED: As Indicated

REFERENCE

• : DIR 98504

PROCESSING ASHION

MANNIO FCR IBCEXIN9

H0 INCOIING RIQUIELD

ONLY QUALITIES NES

MICROFILm

It te requested that the attached photograph of

(201-332665) be shown to

BUABBE and RUADLIB/1 for possible identification in

connection with

activities.

There is no infor

mation at Headquarters which indicates that Subject.

has been

in Jamaica.

Attachment: H/W

Photo

Distribution:

3 - CUS/Kingston w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

2 May

66

Distribution:

1

= WH/C/CICS

1 - WH/C/ESEC

WHI/7

1

- RID

ES COPY

DISPATCH SYNAUL AND NUMBER

TO T

201-33.2645

DATE

1C30L 22

RJKW-353

9

MAY 1956

CLASSIFiCATION

SE CRE I RESENSITZED

HOS fILe NUMBER

OFFICE

WH/C/CICS

201-332665

ORIGINATING

3411

COORDINATING

DATE

DEPICER EROME

C/WH/C/CICS

P/NH/7

5.1836

FI/D/CSB

Oric: SHoR

DATE

A/DCWHD/d

RELEASING

PRICER SSIG

(42)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

DISPATCH

---

## Page 119

14-00000

81-6-90.3:173

PILE NO.

¿SIFIEO MESSIGE

B

21:

SECRET

PERSON/LANT MOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

FILE VR, C/ wH3,

GRID COPY

c/ci, 0/51/24

REPROCUCTION PROMIDITEO

UNIT

DISSEM PER DiJO- 8

1846090148

SECRET 152249Z

ALON

RUGS INFO DIR CITE HAVE 0246

TYPIC ZRKNICK

ARETHAT Y

REF

12531(797625)

NOTÉ "CELI" POSSIBLY PHONETIC- FOR

"CHELE"

Intell

UNTIL 1955, WITH INTEL INTEREST AND CONTACTS

2.

ALL WAVE INFO ON

SECRET

CF:

3245 2531 "CELI" "CHELE"

DGI.

1965 CENTRAL ANERICA MOS

BT

AVAILABLE HAS.

(201-332665)

SECRET

ANUN

Acteis I.G.

201-332465

18 Apiil666

---

## Page 120

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 121

14-00000

riiriit natl

---

## Page 122

14-00000

1P7365

---

## Page 123

FBI die. (x-rep)

26 De.c. 666

---

## Page 124

CLASSIER TO FILE NO, ZE1-33041

¿CLISSIFIED MESSAGE.

I-QLF

TO FILE AO.

RET.

SECRET

DESTROY Osie.

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFILD

DessEr. P12511

CT101

IN7O

ADVANCE COPT

I RID COPY

3.5

REPRiCOUCTION PRONIDITED

UNIT

Duerite

ABSTRACT A

10010

SECRET 1515262 CITI

1D

2236

DIRECTOR INFO JIHAVE

TYPIC WATCHLIST

REFS:

A.

DIRECTOR 55146

B.

Pois (4459051 *

CHECK OF

QUETA RECORDS INDICATE

22 NOV.

SECRET

SECRET

BT

15 DEcto : 60399

LEFT

201-332665

15 Dii. 1546

---

## Page 125

CLASSERT TO PiLE: NO. 2C1-322:6%) CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

DIE BION TET TO GRANCH O.

SECRET

BesTor Ogie.

PUTAL COPIE;

REPRÖDUCTION PROMIbirEO

•C710B

UHlGOG 8.

1) RID COPY

COPY

Die Quonio ruer

SEGREI 851413Z CITEL

DIRECT OR INFO

TYPIC HAT CHL IST

REF DIRECTOR 56955*

NO

INFO ON

BE. QUER IED..

SECRET

BT

3768

5 Dec t6 . 52858

MWAVE

FeST

ABSTRACT

PLS ADVISE WHET HER LIAISON

MA Y

INBR

SECKE

3Die. 1966

3326687

---

## Page 126

14-00000

EY TO FILE NO.

S-REF TO FI

CES.TROY

6202

TOTAL COPITS

SECRET

PERSONIRATE NOTIFIIO

REPRODUCTION PROMICITED

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TIME

W1/C00

PRiD COPt

INFO

SECRET 221508Z CITE

3457

INFO DIRECTOR, JAWATE

ASSTRAC!

TYP IC WATCHL IST

REF MADRID 9882

288M .51386

NO INFO AVAILABLE RE

ACT IVIT IES

DEFER

T O

SECPET

RE POSSIBLE LIAISON SECTET

•FARA TWO REF. TRAVEL INFO.

301-332665

J2e0.1966

---

## Page 127

14-00000

CLASSITY PO PILE NO. ICI-ATLREL CLASSIFOCO MESSAGE

TO FILE NO.

SECRET

orsinor O s16.

ToTAL COFI

32

Ften

REPRODUCTION FRONIGITES

ADVANCE COM

TIME

SE C-RE TOMISTIZ CITE

18820

wh-082

DIRECTOR,

ESG

INFO

JMYAVE,

PYPIC WAICHLIST

:RSF:

DIRECTOR 35146 CNOT SENT

1.

TRAVEL RECORDS SHOW

2041-351665

ntE

SEPARTSO

ESB

1P

10al 50682

3

PS 132.

ABSTRACT

ON 22

NOV 66.

2..

-FOR

REF ROSSATED

ARRIVED

IDEVIIFIED

AMMUS LO AMSESSLO AYSTIFF-S AND ANK.VOS 1.

AHC /ES

INDEX

ZZ

HAS USED

REF REQUESTED

AY INTO OUWARD TRAVEL, DESTLVATION

AND-ACTIVITISS

3.

INDEX

MICROFILI

[..

JAN 26:967

Dos. wiono.rr

131

201-332665

1 Dec. 1966

---

## Page 128

O FILE RI

TOTAL

COPIES: Y

SECRET

A3Y/COG/CICS

sir: 2578

ZO BO IMO&A

30 November

1966 O nue in es vis me.

- PER

201108

VON NOG DORID COPY

". are: va

E

TONI

T

(DAI

FILES)

15 57 7

INFO:

TYPIC NATCHLIST

RETS: A)

JWAVE

9813 (IN 45905) (NOT SENT

DIR 55146 (BEING RELAYED

c)

DIR 55147 (BEING RELAYED

REF A STATE

asy.

riel

BERTE

IRN

NUMDEAS

*4569557

CITE DIRECTOR

ARRIVED

21 NOV. REF B GIVES BIO DATA ON

AND REQUESTS INFO ON ONWARD TRAVEL AND ACTIVITIES.

SEN-

SITIVE INFO INDICATES

GOING

FROM

2.. REQUEST STATION PROVIDE ANY INFO POSSIBLS.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/COG/CICS

WH/ COG/MO

E/AS/A

E/EBAS CUBA

miles

WILLIAM V. BROE.

C/WHD

AUTHENTICATINA

OFFICER

RELEASING OFFICER.

COORDIHATING OFFICERS

1-7

SECRET

REPRODUCTION I OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG OFFICE IS PROMISITAR.

---

## Page 129

FaT doc. (X- ref)

3a man lelo

---

## Page 130

18.. D.. :0.*0

Mnssinoona n Q0L-5 SüelestAoStEio MisaGf

•o oi: oir. 29::.

1=1019

rir RirD dir. po auaiir O

%1. SECRET

ES190Y

TAGUTIGIT NOTIFTTS

FarM

IeRwite

moiuNles.

E RID COPY

IllE, iely WHS SitT=S

ETPECOLIGR PACMTELTIU

Tidi

D... Dnomo nnol

Pouda ns ia

•SECP E T 062352€

DIP LNFO MEXI CITE WATE 7127

TYPIC AMMUG

PEFS:

A. DIP Si329 *

B. MEXI S4IO (IN OIDIS.)

1.

ON 3 DEC 65

AMMiG/, REPOPtED

20.

PE PARA 3 REF B:

A/I MAS NEVER KNCWN

PSEUDO

LUCIO.

70L: 651. 08987

NOT IDENIICALO

TO USE

9T

SECRET

Capy

CSN E 11 201 - 7496.5!

761-332665

.es sau si.

---

## Page 131

14-00000

pit

ORIG

UNIT : 1X/C/CIO

DiT : 9405.

DATE : 27. NOV

SR 1965

MESSAGE FORN

TOTAL: COPIES: 2

DINOEX

ENOINDEX

34 SECRET

•DIFILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-333605

A 201-769095

TO

JAAVE MEXICO CITY

FROM: • DIRECTOR

CON: WH/C8

03 1

TO

INFO: VR..

cI /OPS

HAVE

INFO

MEXI

REF:

NEXT 5410* ( 01718)

ORDER CING: IDLNTIFICATIQN OF

HO IS PREVIOUSLY- IDEVTIFIED

ARi: IDENTICAL.

END OF MESSAGE

5NSPIC:/1 has identified

as her

"TROY

O REFUEN TO BRANCH

xxxXxxxxixxxxXxxXAUXXK2X

•HOLTING

2010S

DO COPY

RIIAN, WH8,

9 sy 65 20

48

•SIG CS!

R9N1:e5

6 1.329

MICROFILMED

DEC 7

190J,

DOC. MICRO. SER:

+3 201-769095

Tallores

MILLIM!

BROE

9N865

201-33266J

C/it/C/CICS

COSAOINATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

Grier:

Parlowed ban outrage

1x0 0/

AUTHENTICATIDI

OFFICER

RELEASING OFFICER

29-8

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE A CRONISITED!

cony as.

---

## Page 132

14-00000

SECRET

3 August 1963

HEMORARDUN FOR!

SUBACE:

Diner öf Auto Bearlag Califörain License

Lo Roference l8 sode to your amorenden ol 26 July 1985 on the above

mubjeet.

This office bas no objeccion to your includiag laformcion con-

cained lo our memorandus of 6 Aptil 1965 la a report to the Bureau of

Internacional Commerce, The Bereau of Custons, and the Innigration and

maturaltaatten service.

autorobile

It le noted chat accordiag to a usually rellable source, thie

to currently regateredl

who wao

10 February 1963.

Tankil he left

As of the present dece, the satozobile is still being

• Diatributton: Lagal Actache

THLS INI ORMATI ON IS FROM A CONTIDENTLAL SOURCE.

IT MUST NOT BE DISSEMIRATED

IN WHOLE ON IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OPPICE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE

OgIGINATING CHRICE

PILES:

50-2-4-A

Rº7365

P-8955

SECRET

€ 3534

---

## Page 133

Date:

Tos

Fai: PrOS!

Subject:

July 26, 1965

SECRET

THR452

OWNER OF AUTO BEARINC CALIFORNIA

LICENSE.

This document is for the use of your

agenoy. only and neither it nor its

contents should be

further distributed

without appropriate authorization.

Reference 1a made to your memorandum dated

April 6, 1965, captioned as above.

It ls noted the autonobile referred to in your

memorandum 1s. now in posseasion of an employee_

which could be a violation of export lawe

Your approval 18 therefore requested to

Include the information in your enorandum in a report

to the Bureau of International Coumerce,

The Bureau of

Customs, and Immigration and Naturalization Service.

SECRET

10R032

GROUP 1

Excluded from metonai

downgrading and

deniascification

P-7365

---

## Page 134

123 03

: SIA0k:

i27S: Married

sind 212513 - 25 4 Wife

Children

MARIES • B037I5S:

SEC.1063 - 189D

201-3326615

---

## Page 135

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 136

SECRET

Chief of Station

Chief, HH Division

Chief of Station,

PIRUMEd/Unknown

XXX

Action Required: For Information, and see paragraph tro.

-oalled

1. ACCOrdInE tO LIEVOY, On 23 AFlL 1965, an unidentifsed sen

Febassy L

to speak to the Ambassador,

who was not 1o. The san refised to five. his name but said họ mas the

person no used to be seen with the young bland can" from the Embresy.

Subjeet asked the Embassy secretary to toll the Arbassador that he bac

moelved a cable from toe Embassy askine tile to cove

Jand that no he was here, but could not stay long. cunjeet also said

that he had seen

the Amvassador frequently but had been toud aot to uno

nones on the selephone, that be hec received the caule at the baglaniag of

Holy weck but could not get a plane reservation then; that they had knon

Sta in the Emboney

Hun hod now gonel

that since the young blood

Subject mes supposed to maxe the acqualntance

of the porson ino had taken the young o/place; and that the cable had

11d 00 to 1th abea or aero one to take rend o

orInally. Subleat

ta probably

2, The Station 1a mable 10 Identify Subject. Howevor, the Blood man

jorfioer, who left pes

on 5 March 1965.

The Station

by ta tie negata in bo ta fuenter of Jubject If it on be deteratord

WIllard C. CURTIS

Distributlon:

2 - COS

1 = CAHD

3 - Piles

toice:

HIMA 25998

SECRET

Glenna H. PELLEN

29 April 1965

5006-75/4

e gim

chrono

50-6075/4

P- 73651

Lawrence P. BARKER

---

## Page 137

SECRBI

6 April 1965

MNORANDUM FOR:

FRON:

SUB IBOT:

urner of Auto Deartag californta Licensel

lo Beference la nada to jour pemorandus of 25 March 1965 om

the above subject. nicorting to & usually rallable source, the

autobile which previoualy bore Californin License

• has

and is ouned by the

Babaaay

chered ta not known.

The date on ihich tho license plates vere

2. The description of

who purchased the

osabile in Califorita, does sot fit the descriptioni

Judo was a serber of the start or teL

_Tat the ties of the purchasa; and the identity of th

sabassy

purchener is unknown.

Distribution:

THIS IS FROI A CONFLUETIAL SOURCE. IT MUST NOS LE DISSE INATED

IN MIDLE OR IN PART OUTSTLE TOUR OPPINE ITUTIOUT PRICE APPROVAL OP

TER CRITLLATTIK OPPINE

Distribution:

50-2-4/A

• P-7365

P-8955

5g9e!

RB T

---

## Page 138

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 139

14-00000

CLASDIFICATION

INCOMING

---

## Page 140

-00000

....

Date

TO

From (la

Subject:

March 26, 1965

UNKNOTN SUBJECT; Owner of Auto

Bearing California License

neither it::.

cithrate prepriete catterind

It has been reliably reported to this office that

captioned vehicle not otherwise described. was observed

at 11:30 A.M.

on October 29, 1961

Investigation to date to identify the owner has

developed that captioned vehicle is a 1961 Ford Falcon two-

door

Investigation in California has disclosed that

- the captioned

vehicle was last sold to one

who gave a

false address, in the Los Angeles area to the seller of the

vehicle. - At the time of the sale,

indicated that

buying the automobile for someone else in Mexico, and

would allegedly go to Mexico in the automobile.

was described at the time of the purchase

of the venicle as a man between 35 and 40 years of age,

and was allegedly staying with relatives in Los Angeles,

California:

CONPLORNTTAL DeA

Group I

Excluded from

Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

cipris $

P- 8955

p-7365

R7365

---

## Page 141

CONEIDENTIAL

It is sossible that captioned automobile was

purchased for a.

establishment..

Any Inforna

tion you may have which would assist in identifying the owner

of thie automobile would be greatly appreciated.

2

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 142

14-00000

ORIG.:

EXTE

1304

FLB

Cc:2:0

CARON

TO

DEFERRED

CLUTIROUTINE

WAVE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CLRSSIFICITION

INITIALS

DIO.

INITIAL$

DIR

DATE:

22 NICE 65

2-2765

Ii6aa83

CITE LENI HUNTEN

ТУРІС

REF:

WAVE S539 (IN 5539)

POUCKING UNDER TH 723549 PHOICS OF

END OF LESSAGE

Milks

I, F BARKER

SECRET

OUTFOING

# C CURTIS

PALEASING OFFICES

P-=365

---

## Page 143

14-00000

DISTRA:

ACTION:

ACTION COPY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DÄTE:

15 MAR 1955

INFo:

SECRET

CLAESIFICATION

FILE:

INITIALS

DIG

DEFERRED

PRIORITY

INCOMING NUMOER

ROUTINE

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

IA ITIALE

1532502

TO

ĐIP

INFO

5639

CITE

NEXI

WAVE 9539

NUMER

TYPIC

PEF

B

WAVE 9233

DIX 91554

MEXI. 2752

(5502)

SNOT RCVDS

1.

ARCOG-I THO ACCOMPARIED PRIO TO

_REPORTED FOLL INFO

POSSIBLY RELATED BEES.

DA-1

TAT DU PREVIOUS AFTERSCON WHILE TALKING DOWN

„STREET,

SHOOK MANDS AND IDENTIFIED. SELF AS G-2 OFFICIALO

SOS 88S AS LOBE SAS A PES CER ORCHARE NEED BENS THNEY

THE! HELD SHORT TARK ON

"GENERAL TOPICS"

2.,

ANCOC-:

ALiG

20

WHAC

1E ARMIFY STORY,

ACCORDING AT. FAID DID TAKE

TIC!

BUT

=! GROUP CUBAN

TOULD 3E 3.

DOVAS FOR MEMPERS ENDASS% APPROACH

ATTE PTING ELICIT FURTSOR DETALS FROM PRIO THROUGH ALPALM-49

LANE PRIO REVIE

PUCASE FORWARD PHOTOS MENTIOUED REF CO ILL ATTEMPT

THEM

FOR FOSS IDENTIFICATIONA

DO 03 MESSAGE

15/01372

cia.

r /2m0r

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

---

## Page 144

14-00000

---

## Page 145

14-00000

л.да

330, 1 UBE PATVIQUA FOITION.

CLASBIFICATION.

•ECRET

---

## Page 146

14-00000

P- 736-5

---

## Page 147

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 148

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 149

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 150

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 151

1 March 1965

# 11/C 165-49

La -1886

---

## Page 152

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 153

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 154

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 155

= ...

---

