# 104-10176-10020

## Page 1

104-10176-10020

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SEGRET

9 September. 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, MI/Division D

SUBJECT:

ZAGRACE - Tokyo Aspect;

George PERIS ala George PERISTEROPOULOS aka

George PARIS, Identiii'd Contact of Valentin HAH!

aka Valentine Vasillyevich KHAN aka WOn-abin HAN

Sell Confeesed Soviet Agent

1. Fellowing information was made available lo the wilter by

V lontia HAHN. Ike laformatina herein reported was provided by oral brief-

ing only, and the writer was not permitted to review the HAHN file itself.

Followine dermiln are cberefore based entirely on noter taken during the

meeting wilch took place in CARRICO's office on 6 September.

2, Talentin HAHN, who was born as Valentine Vanillyevich KHAN on

22 April 1908, Slavyanks,. Rusnin, and who 10 a Russian of Korean origin,

admitted in the course of a Polygraph examination administered on an

bas beos ta the employ of ClA since approrimately 1952, originally in Seoul,

Koros, latas in Tokyo, Japan, nubsequently being transferred to Okinawa.

He was terminated on mipecified date an a contract agest of the SA Division,

and currently le or has been resetiled in Hokkado, share ho has been given &

Job as a translator with the F'BIS listening post at Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan.

During the debrieting which accompanied bia Polygraph lesting. HAHN adrieed

that during his service in Tokyo, Japan, his closest associates had been the

following individuals in the order listed:

Arsendy TANKOVSKY and ulie.

13-3

- CIA Stall Employee ofl

I who

Ine been terminated on unknown date.

He wan identilied a

Japanese Intelligence agent.

€. John Mc COY and we - Me COY man or sill is an employee of

5I Dirlaion, stationed la Japa

SECRET

Đ2 CH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

d. Vadim MEDISH = CLA Contract Agent in employ of SR Division

stationed in

_Le process of being terminated after

Identification as forratt NKVD ageth, a former Abwehr agent.

and subsoquent agent activity in behalf e the Sovieta while la

DP camps.

e, Kasua KANAZAWA - Cousin of Valentin HAHN; at one toe wan

proponed for operational une by this Agency.

1. Charlotte BERGHOLIZ - Close friend of Anistaniya SNOW neo

YANKOVSKIY.

5. Goll-Grigorerna and Marguerita PODSIAVINA - PODSTAVINA

Is the Godmother of Arseniy YANKOVSKIY.

.

Miabalogdns0e1- 0591

lander

cover. Former FAI

employee.

GeorEs PARIS (Spelling as picked up originally by Office of

Security in written report of Polyg-sph examination repert, and

therefore likely phonetse.) • Greek businessman in Tokyo.

J. ln the course of further debriefing in consection with his Polygraph

Test, HAHN elaimed i George PENiS oI PARIS wan the individual who had

introduced HAHN to a club in T'okyo located off the Ginsa, the name of which

- elas translated into Englishis 'Tomorrow is Too Late". At this club HAHN

met a Japanose hostess by the name el Noriko AW AJI, whose seal same wan

later establiabed to be Neriko MATSEZAKAYA, -hom he subsequently dazed.

There in no further information currently available on thia hostess. In the

interim, HAHN has obtained a divorce from his wife, who had been a witting

participant la his agent activitien for the Sovlets, and is known currently to be

living la a common-law relationship «ith « Japanese girl who may be identical

with Noriko MATSUZAKAYA. As indicated above, HAHN and his current

mistress are curreatly la Sapporo, Hokaido.

t: The ex-wife of Valentin HAHY, whose fall name le sot known to the

writer, and the two HAHN sons, are currently being sponsored for resettle.

ment by the Agency In the United Stated, where all three are scheduled to

roceive their U.S. citzennhip under CIA sponsorship.

5. Mla rolerance to the "Tomorres lo too Late" Chab, IANEN olated

that a number of CIA Stalf Employees of the

Irequent or have

Kreguented this establishment and have dated the Japanese huntessen employed

SEGRET

EYES CITY

Удр

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

inci

there. Date of HAHN's introduction to the Clab and to Fariko MATSUZAKAYA

oy George DARIS aka George PEBLs was ertimated by ll. Sayle lo bave beer

somewhere between 1954 and 1957. With regard to Valentin HAHN'S own

Inclinations toward sharing his knowledge of romance with otbera, Ms. Sayle

advised that Security Miice had establimbed that while employed an a contract

agent of the

HAHN bad pimped for CLA Stall personnel is Takyo.

Too

6, As attachment herewitt, the writer appende additional baciground

data on the professional intelligence activities and contacts of Valentin HAHN

and family as noted during the oral briefing by Sayle.

T. On basia of the above, it can be saiely assumed that the George

PARIS known to HAHN is identical with George PERISTEROPOULOS ala

George PERIS, well-known Ickyo businessman and Honorary Deputy Consal

of the Royal Greet Consulate in Yorchama, Japan, as reported in SCTOKY -63

and SCIOKY-64. It is noteworthy that PERIS' contacte throughout ala career.

commencing" in ain original reported employment in Tientsin. Chin through

his activities and contacts in Shanghai, Caina, and later in Tokyo, not excled-

Ing his marriage lo Anrella CZERWINSKA, have been exclusively with

Individuala of Russian or Eastera European background, many of them of

Russian Jewish background, who are either highly suspect or have been iden-

tilied as long-time agente oi Soviet Intelligence. PERIS" reported route of

arrival in Tokyo via Harbin, Tientsin and Shaogbal, as well as his employ-

ment by Sondovich Brothers and contacts with individaals who tie in with the

Bori SOLOMONIK complex and Borsol Fur Trading Corporation, smacke

very strengly of the old Cominters Apparat of the 20's and 30's. Also it

parallela ihe travel patterns of a number of individuals irvolved in the SOBLE

case, principally the SOBLES themselves who sere exilirated irom the

Sovlet Unton via Tokyo, Japas, to the U.S.A, and who, most notably of all,

$1E5 FErê MINOr COvEr oi operating a Bristie Durinens an is Sondovie's Brothers.

8. According to earlier reporting is the ZRGRACE Investigation.

George PERIS le alleged to have been a contact of lilliam Hamilton MARTIN

in Tokyo, and to have offered MARTIN some type of joe or business parter-

ship deal in connection with the rug buniness.

% Mr. Carrico informally indicated that he persosally suspecta thas

MARTIN' Introduction to the fine art of manochistic torture by an unidenti-

fied Japanese female, as reposied by Mri. Ardelle GASDA to FBI agenta,

may have been eifected at or through hia patronage of the Tomorrow la Too

Late" Club to which he may well have been raken or introduced by his friend

PERLS. This sorelaty ore, " be a curter level slee

10. An initial follow-up te

Jas endan

J64 vetgoing emble

of 1 Sep8. 60 requesting further chach-out al the Cial, etc. was prepared.

• Silki

AS CHY

---

## Page 4

SECRET

A second cable to be sent by Prlvacy link to 800ul, Korea, has almo been

drafted, and requents chock of PERIS' arrival, activities and contacts,

departure from Korea subeequent to 28 January 1960. This cable has been

premented separately for your approval and may likely be susject to revinion.

winrefore no copy in attached. It in further muggented that Chlice of Security

be authorined lo pass to NSA Securisy Olficiale working on itis case the

information on PERIS relayed in abovel

tables, suca information to

be properly sterilied of course, and that NSA in turn be reguested to check

and obtain from U.S. Nary Personnel Records ful copies is duplicate of the

olginal reports on the speculic duty stations or assignments, including dates

of service at each, to which MARTIN and MITCHELL Were celailed, also

deralled leave recordo, trarel recorda, and other pertinent background data

contained in such files, to cover the entire perlod of their respective service

with the U.S. Nary. It in alno suggested that NSA officials be requested to

obtain similar detailed original reporte in duplicate from the Desartment o.

13="--j*: -51 in pOrO 01 MANILN's civilian employzent in Japan.

wIth apecial emphasis on any reports of MARTI's extra-curricular activitles,

contacts, club membersbips, identified personal contacte will persons not

employed in his own office, leave travel, etc., which may be reflected in

Official recorde. One copy of all such reports are requented for this Agency.

to permit further checking of known or newly identified contacta he may have

bad in Japan.

ANITA POTOCKI

1 Attachment: an atated

F1/D/AP:mem

Distribution:

rig & 1 - ZRGRACE Fil

- MARTIN 201 file V

1 - PERIS file

1 - chrono

SECRET

SIES ONYA

---

