# 104-10111-10088

## Page 1

104-10111-10088

SECRET

(When Filled In)

0-43073

DATE PREPARED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

30 April 1963

SERIAL NUMBER

2.

NAME (LaS8-Firsi-Hiddle)

559090

CHRISTA DAVID

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

A. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5, CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMÉ:.

DAT

VE AR

REASSIGNMENT & CHANGE OF SERVICE

DESIONATION

V .TO V

V TO CF

B. FUNDS

CF TO Y

9. ORGANIZATIONAL

DESIGNATIONS

Ix

CF TO CF

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE-

ABLE

3125-1990- 1000

1O. LOCATION OF CEFICIAL STATION

REGULAI

B. LEGAL

AUTHORITY (Completed"

Office of Personne;

DDP/ TSD

Development Complement

Washington, D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

19. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

PHYSICAL SCIEN

9997

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, eRc.)| 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE

AND STEP

17. SALARY OR RATE

8. REMARKS

1301.07

-16

13)

-17,000

FROM: IAS

Foreign Field Undetermined.

16 MAY 1963

cc: Security

IBA. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

Dale

Security Approval has been granted le:

the use contemplated by this reques:

Chie Per donnel Securly Division

DATE

SIGNED

188. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SISNES

OFFICER

03

ISD/CMO

DELON FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20, EMPLOY. 21,

OFFICE CODING

122. STAT • ON

24, MDOTOS / 25. JATE CF 2:0TN

26. DATE CE GRADE

27. DATE OF .:

MUMERIC

CODE

CCD:

-:.

--.

то.

ол.

то.

Da.

v c

28-NTE EXPIRES

29, SPECIAL

130

RET 'REMER" JATA

31. SEPARATION 32. ECRRECTION/ CANCE._ATICS JATA

REFERENCE

DATA CODE

то.

DA.

тя.

•CSC

3 = HOC

COSE

TYPE

000.

¢•.

YA.

EOD DATA

MOME

35, VET. PREFERENCE

36. SERV. COMP.

DATE

37. LONG.

COPP. DATE

JE. MIL. SERK CREDIT/LCO

3°.

FES

/ -ÉALTM INSURANCE

CODE

MOME

жо.

DA.

YA.

70.

YR.

C - WAIVER

MEALTM INS. COOF

41.

PREVICUS COVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

nat a. a

CODE

CODE

2 - No

- CES

CODE

C - AO PREVIOUS SERVICE

CCs:

#3.

FEDERAL

TAX DATA

STATE TAX DATA

FORRA EXECUTED CODE

AO. PAR ERINDT: 28S

FORM FlECUTED

CODE

MO BREAK IN SERVICE

1 - YES

TES

BREAK IM SERVICE (LESS TRAD 12 MOSI

2 - NO

2 - чо

BREAK IN SERVICE (MOME IMAM 12 MOSI

33. SECURITY

34. SEI

REO. NE.

AG- SOCIAL SEEDITY NO.

EXEMiO.

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

46. 0.P. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152

USE

PREVIOU S

EDITIOA.

SECRET

14

2/MV

---

## Page 2

1 DESIGN EFFECTIVE-

SECREI

(shen Filled In)

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

FOR THE

FOLLOWING REASON:

(Date)

#HEY IE::

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS.

INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS.

In THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Street. City, zone, Stat.

INSTRUCTIONS

Items I thru 7

and

-

Items 9 thru 18al

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced jtems.

Items 3 thru 7 and 9 thru 18 require information which pertainn only

to the action requested, and lOT to the current status of the em.

ployee unless specific items remain unchanged.

Item 5

- "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

WAE

Part Time

Detail Out

Consultant

Temporary

Detail In

Military

Temporary - Part Time

Item 9

- "Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organizatior.

pertinent is identifying the location of the position:

E Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)

Office, Major Staff

Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Item 11 - "Position Title" should reflect the standard abbreviated title give

in the most current edition of the Position Control Register or re-

ported on Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for

the Career Service to which the employee belongs. If more than one

Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Service should apprc

and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING - The original only of this forn will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel

through the appropriate Career Service official(s) In the case of requests

speciffed in HB 20-800-1, which require advance approval of or notification

the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only will.

sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

0-43

DATE PREPARED

• REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

30 АргП 1963

1. SERIAL NUMBER

2. MAME (LeNt

dale)

559020

CHRIST. DAVID I

NATURE oF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT & CHANGE OF SERVICE

DESIONATION

у то у:

y TO CF

•. FUNDS

CF TO Y

CF TO CF

D. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

A. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

B. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH

DAY

ТЕАВ

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE-

ABLE

3125-990-1000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

REGULAR

0- LESAL AUTHORITY (Coapleted.by

Orfice ol Personnely.

DDP/ TSD

Development Complement

Washington, D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

19. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

PHYSICAL SCIEN

9997

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, óte.)

18. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND

STEP

17. SALARY OR RATE

g.S

REMARKS

1301.01

-16

(3)

17,000

=:::

J=E:

FROM:

LAS

Foreign Field Undetermined.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

16 MAY 1963

Date

Security Approval has been granted for

the use contemplaied by this request

Chiet, Personnel Stay, Divisiona

ce: Security

IBA. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

03

DATE

SIGNED

180.

SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DACE

HE SIGNED

OFFICER

03

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

CODE

CODE

DELOW

OFFICE CODING

HOLDTERIC

ALPHABETIC

TSD/CHO

EXCLUSIVE USE

VE THE OFFICE OF

FERSONNEL

24, MDOTRS / 25. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

77, DATE OF LEI

но.

DA,

TR.

.440.

DA.

vA.

то.

2B-WTE EXPIRES

но.

DA.

YA.

29.

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30.

RETIREMENT DATA

CSC

• FICA

CODE

- thir:

137. lONG.

COMP. DATE

TR.

то.

DA.

va.

31, SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE

TYPE

мо.

DA.

Ya.

EOD DATA

33. SECURITY

REO.

NO.

TR.

3%. SEX

35, VET.

PREFERERCE

CODE

HOME

36. SERY.

но .

DA.

5 рт.

10

PT.

PREVIOUS COVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

38 MIL. SERY CREDIT/LCD

•YES

CODE

2 - NO

39.

CODE

FEGLI / MEALTM INSURANCE

NAIVER

MEALTY ONE, CODE

• YES

NO. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

41.

CODE

A2. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

O - Do PREVIOUS SERVIES

NO BREAN IN SERVICE

•BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 12 MOS,

• BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 12 MOS)

#3.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED CODE

YES

2 - 1o

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

NO TAX STATE CODE

MO, TAN EXEMPTIONS

FORM EXECUTED

YES

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

46. 0.8. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152

8-81

USE

EDITION. (

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE.

(When Filled In)

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

_FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

(Dote)

8 MAY 1960

MY LAST WORKINE DAY MILL BE •

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS. TO THE FOLLOWINE ADDRESS (Number.

Street, City, Zone, State)

Items 1 thru 7

and

Items 9 thru 18a

Item 5

Item 9

RST

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items.

Items 3 thru T and 9 thru 18 require information which pertalas. only

to the action requested

and NOT to the current status of the em

ployee unless spectifc itine remain unchanged.

TUS 1126 Co

"Category of Imployment" should show one, If the following entrief:

810: 16X

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Out

Temporary

Detail In

Consultant

Military

Temporary - Part Time

"Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization

pertinent to identifying the location of the position:

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)

Office, Major Staff

etc.

Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Item 11'-

"Position Title" should reflect the standard abbreviated title given

in the most current edition of the Position Control Register or re-

ported on Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for

the Career Service to which the employee belongs.

If more than one

Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Service should approve

and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING - The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel

through the appropriate Career Service official(s). In the case of requests

specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance approval of or notification to

the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only will be

sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET

---

