# 104-10215-10221

## Page 1

104-10215-10221

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note):

NW 53217 6/20/17

CLASSIFICATION

SECAR

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

PROCESSING

FRO

SeD

aRA

¡ Ассон

Mariar

MARKED FOR INDETIRE

INTO

NO IMDEUINO PIQUINTO

ONLY QUALITED

KEADQUARTERS OESA

CAN DUDGE IRECINO

FROM

Chief of Station, JEWAVE

ABSTRACT

SUBJECT

TYPIC/Operational

MICROFILM

AKTRUNK Progress Report, Pertod 1-30 November 1963

ACTION REQUIRED • REJERENCES

Action Required: FXI

1. OPERATIONAL, ACTIVILY

As mentioned in the previous month's progress report,

in late October AMICE-27 and AHTRUNK-14 made their decision that

they could not continue in the AlTRUNK operation under the guide

Jines followed up to the present, l.e. that all rocruiting and

planning for the fulfillnent of the MIAPRON objectives of the

ANTRUNK operation within PBRUMEN would remain on a person-to person

or agent-to-agent basis and could not at this time be conducted

under the aegis of the political organization as conceived by

ALICE 27.

Efforts to winnow AMICE-27 away from the clandestine

mechanism of the ANTRUNK operation culminated on 19 November when

Andrew K. REUTEMAN and Irving N. PEGGINS held a discussion with

AMICE-27 in which AMICE-27 agreed to participate in and confine

his activities to the radio program which had begun transmission

TOE BRUBEN OR 22,8 LEON C. FLUNTO,

say, as

Binvamber, AHICE-27

the sole JAVE representative in contact with AMICE-27.

KUCAGE case officer, who will be

At a meeting between Reuben A. HANNULA and AKICE-14 on

AMICE-14 declared that he was pleased that the issue

had been discussed previously between PEGGINS and AMICE-14, with

AMICE-27 "reassigned" to the overt radio program, AlICE-14 would

asgume tho leadership of the clandestine action side of the opera

.

had been impossible to do any concrete planning for subsequent

filtration.

With this natter settled, AHICE-14 and JAWAVE repre

sentatives began planning for & Decenber infiltration.

On the De

cember operation, AHICE-14 would attempt to shore up the system of

Attachment: H/W

Memo Stating AHTRUNK

Internal Contacts

¡ CROSS REFERDICE TO

Distribution:

3 - C/SAS w/att.

#КОУР 1

NARTINE SAI

BeasTiste

DECKASITIZED

CLASSIFICATION

RYBAY

SSCRET

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

10 Dec 63

DEC 1 7 1763

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND ARABER

UFGA- 12921

HEADQUARTERS FILE MUMBER

19-6-84/3-1

---

## Page 2

104-10215-10221

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLA

SEC R

B

DISPATCH

BER

• 1000d.

UFGA- 12821

FORM

5.60

140)

53c

conmunications with AKTRUNK-9 and -10 and to redirect and ro

juvenate their efiorts toward the kEifZON objectives of the

overall operation.

In addition, AlICE-14 would attempt no sore

than two selected recruitnents and rould attempt to obtain

additional information on two other important KHAPRON target

personalities.

The decision was made during the same week of 18 Noven-

ber to bring into the operation two radio operators who had ro

cently completed their basic radio training.

During the December

operation, one of the radio operators, AlAKA-1, would accorpany

AMICK- 14 and the two boatmen, ANTRUNK-7 and -s, on the Boston

Whaler to provide rapid communications between the ANTRUNK inf11/

exfiltration area and JliAVE.

The other radio operator, AHAGREE-..

would begin tradecraft training with ANTRUNK-13 in early. December

to prepare for a January infiltration.

Either or both radio

operators could then be used to provide a comminications link with

the infil/exfil area

on an operation of short duration or could

bo iniiltrated for a longer period of time to function as con-

municator for either AUTRUNK-9 or -10. AMICE-14 will also explore

with both AiTEUN-9 and -10 the possibility of their recruiting a

qualified radio telegraphist who could be trained in KUBARK's Bys-

tem of i/l' to remain in place.

In preparation for December, ANTCE-14, AMAKA-1,

and

AHTRUNK-7 and -8 received naritime refresher training and ran

additional tests on the 16' y" Boston whaler during the week of

25 November.

Daring the month, OlVl messages 5 through 8 and S/W mes

sage #l were sent to AMTRUNK-9. His S/W message #2 dated 6 Novem

ber was roceived at JiWAVE on 30 November. S/l message #3 was

gent to AHTRUNK-11 On 5 Novenber and S/M message #2 to AXTRUNK-12

on 28 November.

Attached is a Menorandum for the lecord listing

the contacts in the ANTRUNK 1nf1l/exfil area.

2. INTELLIGENCE REPORTING

UFG-4121, Militia Detachments at Keys off the Northern

Coasts of Matanzas and LaB Villas Provinces, 26 Movenber T963.

UFG-4122, Ants-Counterrevolutionary Action 1n latanzas

Province, 26 November 1963.

3. OPKRATIONAL EXPENDITURES

Salaries

AMICE 27

AMICE- 14

AMTRUNX-13

AMAGREE- 1

AHAKA- 1

AMTRUNK-7

AHTRUNK-8

$350.00

$350.00

$300.00

$275.00

§225.00

$200.00

$200.00

$1,900.00

Mileage

32.20

Household

Expenses

55.31

$1,987.51

CLASSIFICATI

•PAGE NO.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SBC R B•T::

COntInUED

2.

---

## Page 3

104-10215-10221

•CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

MES SUTTED

BE C'RET

DISPATCH BYMBOL AND NUNDLA

UFGA- 12921

4. PROJECTED PLANS

Bfforts are underway to prepare the 1-nan tean led by

AMICE-14 for Operation AMTRUNK VI which is scheduled for infil-

tration on 11 Decenber and for exfiltration on 23 December.

AHTHUNK-13 and AMAGRER are being readied for a subsequent

1nf1l/exf1ltration in January 1964.

END OF

DISPATCH

FORM

5-£0

Sia

120)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

С РУВАТУ

GLASBIFIGATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

3.

---

## Page 4

104-10215-10221

CRET

RY

BESEHSITIZED

HEXORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: ALTRUNK Contacts in Northern Matanzas Province

The following is a listing of the ANTRUNK contacts in northern

Matanzas

Province which was obtained by Reuber: A. HANNULA from

AMICE-14 and AMTRUNK-7 and -8:

1.

Oscar *DIAZ Jabiela-Garcia

Oscar DIAZ is a 52-year-old commercial fisherman who has

lived all his life in larti,

Natanzas Province.

His wife,

Emilia TORRES Diaz, is AXTRUNK-7's aunt.

They have five

children: Antonio DIAZ Torres, 26 years old who works with

his father as a fisherman; Ramona, age 27; Angel, age 24

who is in the U.s.; Mercedes, 15 and Rosa,

12.

Oscar DIAZ

and his son Antonio own and operate an l8ft. boat with an

inboard 12 hp motor.

The boat is called "El Chino" and

operates throngnout the Bay of Santa Clara.

2. Candido *DIAZ

Candido DIAZ (no relation to Oscar above) is a 32-year-old

commercial fisherman who lives at Cristina and San Juan de Dios

Streets in Cardenas, Matanzas Province.

Candido DIAZ fishes

with Oscar DIAZ in the Bay of Santa Clara area.

His wife,

Sobeida is about 20 years old.

They have a 2-year-old son.

Candido DIAZ owns a 1951 Chevrolet, green body and white top,

which has been used by AMICE-27 and AMICE-14 on the first leg

of their infiltration trip into Havana.

Pablo *FUNDORA Dominguez

FUNIORA is approxinately 34 years old and lives at Amistad

and Minerva Streets in Cardenas.

He is the uncle of AMTRUNK-8.

For part of the year FUNDORA fishes with Oscar and Candido DIAZ

above and in the off season works in the Guipuzcoa Sugar Mill

at 064381, ANS 4084 IV, approxinately 12 km NW of Marti.

FUNDORA is married to Ramona DIAZ Torres, the daughter of Oscar

DIAZ above.

FUNDORA has 3 brothers; Amador; 43, who works in

the Salina (salt works) in the Cinco Leguas

area north of the

Bay of Santa Clara; Ramon, 40, who is a deck hand on the tug

boat "joraima", of

which the father of ANTRUNK-8 is Captain;

Roberto, 31, a

laborer in the Ministry of Public Works in Ma-

tanzas Province.

4. Isaac *MORENO

MORENO is approximately. 40 years old, single, and lives with

his mother

in darti.

He is a commercial fisherman who owns and

operates an l8ft boat with 9 hp inboard (no nane). Isaac has 4

S E

R

RYBAYESENSITIZEO

---

## Page 5

104-10215-10221

SE

PREITEED

- 2 -

brothers:

Isaael, 3S and Sandalio, 46, who are woodcutters

in the darti

area; Gilbesto, 27,

a

shoe-shine boy; zad

Preodoro, about so who is a zilitiaran in Sagua la Grande.

5. Leandro OPENO

Leandro, the father of Isazc above, is about 70 years

old, aiso a

comercial fisherman from

Marti.

6. *Éelicio INU

Felicio is a contaci or Permin CONZALEZ Fernandez

(CONZALEZ waS exfiltrated mita the Antruis ia late August.

Felicio is 23 or 24 years old and biks in his

father's garage in Itzoo.

His father cas be identified

oaly by his zicknano "Chachan".

7.

Juan Manual RuIz

RUIZ is approximately 45 years old, an employee of INRA

who administrates the "Guerrero" farm located in Grid Square

ANS 4085 III.

have & calidren, 3 boys zad 3 girls.

He is carried to Berta ROMERO. They

8. Luis "CARCIA

CARCIA is about 25 years old and is employed as a farm.

LEDOrE- DI INRA.

He lives in the Balnearios Menendez area

which is located in Grid Souare 2047, AMS 4085 III.

Luis

CARCIA

vas married 2 noaths ago. His wife's name is unkrow.

to the AlTRUNks.

9.

Antonio

*

CARCIA

Antonio is a first cousin of Luis above.

He is about 50

years old.

Until August of 19€3 Antonio GARCIA Was the owner

0 a farm of approximately 150 acres in the Casualidad area

(Grid Square 1948,

Same nap rei.).

The farm has since been

intervened by the Castro government, however, Antonio remains

as caretaker.

10.

EsTeraldo ONTALVO "AIdito"

LORRAIVO is approxizately 38 years old,

Negro, and owns

and oberates a taxi,

a 1952 Chevrolet - - yellow with a black

in the Guipuzcoa area. For part of the year he also

works in the sugar mill in Guipuzcoa.

MONTALVO is divorced

and has 2 teenage sons who live with their mother in Guipuzcoa.

SEC

REI

OVA REFUSITIZED

Toni

---

## Page 6

104-10215-10221

SE

- 3 -

11:

AngeL®

DELGADO BritO "ZEbi"

DELGADO is a single 30-year-olà Negro from Guipuzcoa

-who has worked in the sugar mill at Guipuzcoa sirce approxi-

nately 1953. Prior to 1953 DELGADO was a taxi driver.

*

12.

"Wako"!

VASQUEZ

vAsQUEz is about 10 years old and lives and works on a

{21m

in the Casualidad aros.

VASQUEZ has a 1948 Dodge, waite

with

a blue top which was used by the Airrinks in their august

infiltration/exfiltration.

VASQUEZ is =arried to inu GARCIA,

the cousin of Antonic GARCIA above.

Approximately 20 mezbers

Of VASQUEZ' •and his wife's lamily live in the farmhouse at

Casualidad.

Ruler Occarla

Xeuben

HAINULA

---

