# 104-10179-10017

## Page 1

104-10179-10017

21 Horeaber 1960

COFFACY ККРОНУ

SUBBCT! Meeting With Manuel RAI, 15 Hovember 1960, a8 a Motel

In Homesteed, Florida

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

", Kannel Ray vas still "under wrapa" and ve did not v

to tate any chances of having him spotted 11 Naul. Manual Ray and hie

ulte bad been driven tron Tampa by

"Ray Adanu" (Ray Dubola) to the abone

named motel! I had previoualy called Ray on the telephone from Eew Iork

at bie Pampe residence and told him that I vould meet him on 15 Bovember.

The meeting began at 2100 bours and lasted until about 0130 the nant day.

2. The highlichts of this meating were reported in MAßH-269A, 27

Novenber, copy of rhich sa attached, the folloving parngraphs ure ta

@Laboration of this massago.

During this first meting, my intent was to establich rapport,

probe into Ray'o political thinkins, and, by reiterating previouoly asde

statements on the Header Goop'e Willingess to support the MaP, to

an an "exchange of views" sesason, arolding any controveroy, but at

the pams tine, indicating sone surprise and aou bendlderment over son

of Ray's statemento.

4.

Turonghout the coversation, fay clearly atressed his sreas

ballet la elvil Libertien, Individnal freedon, and his position ne a

Cuban, and alno bemlopherse, nationalist. On a number of occasicas, be

etrensed the point that nost likely sone of the solutions be propored

for the poor caetro period, sight. be viend by me with sone steelving.

Don't you ballere, be asted, that rant le important to the rectory of the

W. B. He not seceenatily Important to the econony of Cubal. Don't. you

think that the American brand of demerney, which turke addrably in

your country, lu not necessarily applicable to 1t0 totality la Ciba!

May refterated, on a number of cecausone, that he vented to 80

back to 1 Janaary 1959.

He was quite firm on as reported. In the abow

montioned enble • on the need of the nation lisation of publle. utilitteng.

when askad mout the agrarina reform and, In thie cometion, what vonl

bappen to Castro setsed Anarian rancbed, he sald thist land distribution

and amorahip by lodivióual firas of land so parcelled out, vould be a

son of sia soveramants the criteria on ubesser or not Amariçan-omed

ranebes vonia pe raturast to their omere, vre currently being varbes

SENGET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

out by Felipe Paron. (CONti!

I anined the Inpression that these

ranches miaht not be returned.

6.

I renlly shoved some carprice when Ray sald that be rould not

mate the 1940 Constitution the bosla 1or bie future government, Thia lesue

came up in the folloung manners I askes Ray wbether or not be could work

ofther by joining or by aiffllating . with the PRD, and wen his anaver

mas in the negativo, I posed the question of vat vere the arena of siree.

ment and of diasgreement between him and the FED. Ray anid that be had

not as yet talked tu fory Varon but that he would feel that there could

be agreecent on a number of pointes firet, to get rid of Castro, second,

that there siould be civil liberties and individual freedon. Is said

that perbaps the ares of disagreement was conniderably greaters be

could not accept the 1940 Conatitution as the basis for Cuba's polltical

life in the future.

Obvionaly, sone proviatons of the Conatitution would

be retained but espeolally provisiona for electoral procedures woald have

to be changed radieally! the current provioiona are fostering corruption

and feather-beddine, and are not responsive to the will of the people.

Questions of nationalliation and other economic battera rould have to be

dealt with more thoroughly in the Constitution,

Anotber point of 015-"G

apreement with the PRD le the tact that 1t ma Linked too much with the

pant.

The FRD, May onld, l0 really Tiny Varcao.

or the five, he 1o the

my one or any true importance amongst the current Executive Comittee

memberos Corrillo has always been very close to the VPP political posture,

and Artine 1a a yound fire-bran without too such braineg the rout of tbe

PRD Executivo Cormittee neubers are nice people Individually, but Verona

In the man to reckon with. How, there l0 notbing vrong with Varone per

noDAlly be 10 a sincere, patriotle Cuban vho haa and deserves respect.

However, Varona 1e Inseparably Hated with the corruptoens of the Prio

regina

Although be, Varona, 1e undoubtedly a completely honest am. In

additios, Varons, whether ho vants to or not, lo a symbol of the paat and.

outdated

political and ocononde philosophy of the Prio roglue... It 1e

Impossible for the MP to bare any dealings with or any liato: to that

past.

To I anted Ray what his position to the Sovlat/ChiCon block woul

be after Castro's denise.

One of our baale concepto, Bay salarie to..:

trade berever 10 will be beneffeinl for uoy benefielal don not ye

to t1e our economy to that of the foviet block.. Me are quite avore thate

our future fa linked to our Great Forth American bosghbor. Horevery beet

link can not mean donination of should luply any exclosiveness. No mat

bulld up our hard eurrency position so that me can trade merever ve

wart Co.. You Avericans undermatiente the strong feeling of nationalien

throughout latin Americar Don't une the Marineal Don't lovade!: Thia

rovolution bas to be canarated fron the lastle: le neoô. Asertean belp

bart thie belp munt be without strns attached.

Ambasenior Boobal and

J1m Nool prouloed no this bold, and your, Bender's, vealloss vito SP

repreventatives bere unde us very boperal, but 1f ve can not set thie aid,.

we will proceed on dur on. de are certal that to sill who but is so.

---

## Page 3

4-00000

as man oath indis

hare to die 1n Pallure • 40 De 1t1 It vas at thia point vhan lay complatoed

Ditterly about our basilica of the 3100010 Valo affales

81ne010 Walsh vus

LOOKing fOr BrEN.

He, Ray, was eager to build up his organtiation and

therefore to drav people 11ko Walsh Into bie elrole.

One of the means to

do thie ma, of course, to make liazas dependent on bio, Ray'o, ability to

harninh milltury equipment. Maled sade o request for arme to Rays Ry

ebarnoled thie roquent to bio Averican contacts in Havana in tbe articipation

that ha, Ray, would be siren the credit by welch of having delivered the coode.

What happoned, hoverer, was that Plinio Priato, mo bad been trained in

America, mojo contact with lalab and assured him tbat support vould be

fortheoning from a source other than Ray.

Thio, Rig continued, ran o

dication that the Amerleans moted to split avy the waleh-croup from

Ray'e dorianes. I indicated so kouledge about this errair bus pootpoces

the conclusion drawn fron it by Ray.

8. Arter thia political discussion, Ray elucidated on peychologleal

sapecte of the Ma vork, ve are revolutionaries, ond this ve met retala,

ut all tims, a lean and hunary 300k. lach one of us, regardless of the

Loved of our octivities, set have a feeling of personal responstbility

sros so dom to the plain coos, no mut have opectile tanke auntened to us

to do and ench of un munt recognise that ve will be hold respopaible fos

the sueceso or failure of the specifie mission assigned to uo..

Thụe, 10r

Isotance, we ean not be matiafied just to mccept moneya vo must enenge la

fand valuing drivon her and in Cabs, Tbese drives night not bitng la

much and hopafully, Bender uild sake up the difference, but the 1n01v1dul

fUndmASEaTE ViLl bavo a feelias os accomplishment and will not pot fat end

opolent and lasgi

9.

Above concluded the orer-all alecussion and son detailed questione

wore asked by Rey.

Could be Dave $29,000 by next rockt (I comitted

$10,000) Could be ungage in a Indoraloing setivity in the U. Bal (I

temporied. Could he have prose conferences? (I auld, hy nott) Could

he bave radio tinet (1 sald, perbope.) Could he cot military ald? (I

unto goo, provided ous eriteria for furnishing suéa ald vould be met, and

I repanted, at that point, uy view tont there could be no dup scation o

Spain, would play a considerable role In un my voych vartarn setivitien.

10, The sueting closed vith our underotandini that ve vonlo mine agile

within the nant too woks.

WALLACE A. PARLEYS

NAP/pSE (19 For 60)

Diatribation:

0-CR FIL

& = JUASH

1l - Namuel Ray doraler

1 - ARP

1 = C/SMARC/ 078

ZIBR

---

