# 104-10227-10167

## Page 1

104-10227-10167

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

so pas !,

PROCESSING

ACTIONS

171:018!

HuO.

MAL-QUARTERS 195A

Chief of Station, IMWAVE

JMZIP/KUCAGE/AMBUD/Operational

ACTRE REQUIRED. HIFERENCES

Trananittal ol PASSAYOY. ReLorEs

FYI. See below

P-A-I-O-H-I-I-Y

Under separate cover we are forwarding PASSAVOY

reports No. 57 through 70.

No, 66 which concerns the "Letter to the Editor"

was done at

the request of C/CA/WH. Since ne are not able

to obtain on a regular baula copies of the neuspaper 1n

question, It 18 requested that Hesdquarterg check the 11le8

of the paper beginning with 23 November and inform WAVE

1f the letter appeare.

AMBUD-1 would like to send 1t

Bubsequently to local

papers.

End of Dispaten

ATTACHMENTS

Memo Nos, 57 - 70 (2 ed.) /688)

DISTRIBUTION

3 - Chief, WHD

2 - F1leg

n/o atta.

asTates 19-124-25/2

BEST HDR

SECRET

DATE DISHATCHET

30 NOV 61

NOV 3 0 1961

DISTRICH STRAINE, AND NUMBER

UPSA-2781

MAS:SON I CAS FILE NUMBER

13-124-25/2

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEG.21

UFAA - 2781

20 Novender 1961

MAMO: BAN LM FOR IN 700020, 2L0. 66

SUBJECT.

Lotter from Dr. MIRO Carciona to Toronto Star,

Relative Modical Ald to Cuba Committee

Star by Dr. Jose NO Cardona.

At ched here Card copy Apparent he 2t and er 19d he the Toonto

anne day that I proposed the matter to him as requested by WAVi.

appunra unchanged except for two or three small changes which I sucrested he-

might prefer and which he agreed to.

Dr. MINO's cooperation and irmudiato action typify hia character and

mannor of operating.

I informod Dr. MIRO that I would advise him 1f we found in copies of the

Star that his letter had bean made public.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1...

Miami, November 22nd. 1961

Editor.

Toronto Star,

80 King Strict, West

Toronto,. Canada

Dear 517:

Information has been recelvol that a committee lo eirculating

appeale to

the Canadian people aoking for contributiona for drugs •

lo bo sent to Cuba, Implying that aupplles have been cut off and

that the Cuban people cannot got such druga because the United Sta

tos rofuses to purchase sugar.

The committee le called the Modi.

cal Ald to Cuba Committee, Sintlon D. P. O. Box 4, Toronto. 2B, -

Ontarto.

As a member of lho Cuban exile communiay and one Inllmalo-

y Informed of the oltuation in Cuba, 1 eliould like to set thie inatte

tralpht and point out the fallacy of this supposedly humanitaria

work which may be vietimising the Cunadian people:

the economie polleles of the Cuban guiernment, which prefera lo put 1ta

avallable foroign exchange Into the purchase of guns and tanka rather

than Into lood and druge for lla people.

The alloged argument that the cutting off of eugar purchases •

by the United States has prevented the purchase of druge la fallacious

since the Cuban Government boasta of lta conalderable sale of sugar

to the Sovlot Undon which prides: lteolf on lte eclentifle progreso. "

With thie foreign eschange available for Cuba, la the Soviet Union -

unable, or lo lt unwilllug to send druge to Caba?

Enrthermore, Fresident Konnedy has specifically stated that -

there

total embargo pluced on Cuba ad be Intended that

•food and modietnes be sent to Cuba since he had no quarrel with the

Cuban people but only with their Communial dominated government.

There la ample exchange available to Cuba, for example from Bremen

dona salon of tobacco to the United States.

Moreover druge are being

sent to Cuba,

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Let our filenda she Canadiana not be vicilmised by shie propa

ganda-typo campaign but oxamine calmly and carofully the motives..

boblad the appeale being made by the liedical Ald 12 Cuba Committoe.

Sincerely yours.

Jode Miro Cardona

• Frastdent of Cuban Revolutionary Council

IMCime

SEO.LT

---

