# 104-10227-10058

## Page 1

-104-10227-10058

i.io -it

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Reproduca

22

INDEX-CRASGIFSTO IILENO.

PO MROLL-CLADGIFY TO PILE NGOA

FIEERIO VDISTE

GE TO PILE NO.

Ersno si

FILE RID

SIGHATURE

ACTION:

CASAS 5.

INFO:

DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADÇP, C/CA 2, G/C1, G/FI2, S/C2• M1OO

SECRET IIOIAGZ

DIR CITE WAVE 7810

IMMEDIATE ACTION

EgPIC AMBUD

INI5695

y

RK

ROUTING

RIDLAN

SHITIAI

sAslEsa

19-154-257

ygo

---

## Page 2

i....

and dragons-leto,

CROSE

once NO. 7 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE"

ACTION: SAS TO (RE NOTTFTED AND COPY SLOTTE AT T/45,

TATUSTOP

INFO : D61, D/DC1, DDP, ADDP, CI, C1/OPS, C1/IC 2, F1, EE A, SR 6, S/C 2

SECRET 012129Z

# PRITY :DIR CITE WAVE 661%

TYPIC

2 APR 1963

IN 98730.

EXILE COLONY IN UPROAR OVER NOTICES TO CUBAN EXILE ACTION

LEADERS PROHIBITING TRAVEL OUTSIDE DADE COUNTY. REACTION AMONG

EXILES APPEARS UNIVERSAL OVER THIS ISSUE AND IS ANTI-US AND

ANTI-KENNEDY. EVEN THOUGH NOTICES ONLY SENT SELECTED LEADERS.

ORDER BEING INTERPRETED AS APPLICABLE ALL EXILES AND AS

BEGINNING CO EXISTENCE. RECEIPT OF NOTICE NOW AND STATUS SYMBOL

2• AMEUD-I STATED THIS HAS CREATED MOST CRITICAL SITUATION

FOR BOTH AMBUD ORGANIZATION AND HIMSELF PERSONALLY DOES NOT

SEE HOW HE CAN CONTINUE IN PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES AND IS ADVANCING

TRIP ZRUETAL TO 2 APRIL TO MAKE POSITION PLAIN STATEMENT

BY BOTIFOLL QUOTED I APRIL MIAMI HERALD WAS MINIMUM THAT COULD

BE SAID.

*THIS ACTION DOESN' I FOLLOW THE WORDS OF PRESIDENT

KENNEDY OR RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS WHICH ENCOURAGED THE CUBAN

EXILES AND INDICATED THE US WAS GOING TO HELP US."

3= AMDIP-I REPORTED BY ANSHRUG-! TO HAVE TOLD OVENVY TO

RESERVE SPACE FOR HIM IN LOCAL JAIL AS MAS NO INTENTION OF

ACCEPTING TRAVEL RESTRICTION.

4• REACTIONS OF EXILES RANGE FROM CONSIDERING THIS AN

ALLIANCE OF US WITH SOVIETS AGAINST CUBAN PEOPLE THROUGH SAYING

LE SANNCT BE TRUSTED AS AN ALLY BUT HAS ABANDONED CUBA AS

HUNGARY AND OTHER EAST EUROPEANS ABANDONED.

SOME CONSIDER IT A

REPRODUCTION BY

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC CONN

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

10285 8493-000774 6101000 $ -1000, 90101

---

## Page 3

PASSIPTOO MESSAGE

PAGE 2

JOKE, THAT STATE DEPARTMEMT CANNOT POSSIELY BE SERIOUS BUSTHIS

ONLY AN OFFICIAL POSITION FOR THE PRESS WITH NO MEANING.

SO AMLYRIC I SUMMARIZED SERIES OF MORE REASONABLE COMMENTSE

!: AO FLOW OF SOVIET TROOPS OUT OF CUSA HAS BEEN VERY SLOW

AND

.i

IF SOVIETS WERE HIT HARD, THEY WOULD ABANDON CUBA

IN A HURRY. WITH THE SOFT APPROACH, THEY WILL STAY

FOREVER.

Bo THIS ACTION HURTS US PRESTIGE BOTH WITH CUBANS AND IN

ALL LATIN AMERICA AS IT CREATING IMPRESSION OF WEAKNESS,

CONFUSION AND UNTRUSIVORTHINESS.

Co WHEN SOVIETS OPENLY HELP COYMUNISTS ALL OVER WORLD,

WHY DOES US CONDUCT SUCH WEAK POLICY AND HESITATE HELP

CUBANS WHO WILLING RISK LIVES AND CARRY BRUNT OF BATILE?

DO RECENT GRAG.:- DON EY CASTRO ON GUERILLA FORCES AND NOH

ELIMINATION OF EXILE ACTICS KILL MEAN END TO INTERNAL

RESISTENCE AND FINALLY ACCOW"ODATION TO AND

• ACCEPTANCE OF CASTRO REGIME BY THOSE INSIDE

WITHOUT HOPE FOR OUTSIDE SUPPORT, ONLY A MAD MAN

WOULD CONTINUE INTERNAL RESISTENCE®

GO AHRAZOR ALSO POINTED OUT ADVERSE EFFECT ON US PRESTIGE

IN LATIN AURICA AND ADDED THAT COMMANDO RAIDS HAVE VALUE IN

PROVING CASTRO'S VULNERADILITY AND IN ENCOURAGING INTERNAL

RESISTENCE.

7O AYCORE-2 EXPRESSED A GENERAL EXILE OPINION THAT THE US

IS THEREBY PROTECTING FIDEL, THAT CUBANS ARE SÉING FORCED TO FIGHT

ECTY THEIR ENEMIES AND THEIR FRIENDS, ON 31 MARCH TV INTERVIEW.

ANCORE-* ANSWERED QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER US WAS AGAINST ANTI-CASTRO

CAUSE BY SAYING, "IN THEORY, NO, BUT IN PRACTICE IT LOOKS LIKE

LUCEREL

---

## Page 4

CLASSITIEO MESSAGE

SSOCI

÷ 6617

1. 30

PAGE

IT IS BEGINNING TO BE.

APRILL-I SUMMED UP MATTER BY SAYING EXILE COMMUNITY

SHOCKED BY THE TRAVEL PROMIBITION AND CONCLUDES ANTI-COMMUNISTS

BEING PUNISHED®

SECRET

SEGRET

---

