# 104-10178-10061

## Page 1

104-10178-10061

GLASUNADON

IRANSMITIA

TOCS IMBORMÁTOM REPORI 054

CHIO.

UAUIT

Morge Corarglo, eb

IYC/RR/ RE

(A8.

3517

OAPR

' 1965

ONTILATIOH COViT

AI:€ 11

INFORMATiÓN ESAIS

SECRET

•OUTING

Đ2-8 1 1588-95

TDCS DE- J15/02278-65

CI,OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FJ/INT 6, IN, CA ?, CA/PSG, DO:H, WS 4, II 12

DATT DISYEIBUTIE

6 July 1965

DISSEMINA

HION

WHS/RE

3 0HC/ST !

WHS/RS

24H/2/G

2 JLANTZE

VIC/WA'E

2WH/1/R

2IefY

WHC/FI

NHC/EA

BARRS

WHE/OS

BHC/CA PPIWE/5/R

ICdAT

WhC/NP

EVALUATISI

WE/MADRI E HEXI22

REZUEST:

AYAYE

MANOTING INSTRUCTIONS

ARAAY

MAVY

PEECED ENCE

XI POUTINE |

BASES ON ME. IR, MON

WAVE-3559

(IN-01491)

UFG- 7328 01

NP (ANCLEVE

Llla1900.*

AIlR

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSITIPATION

SECRET -E

(MNEN TREES 1O

M-ADOE-8 OmOUMI M9801A MNmN

COORDINATING OFFICER(3)

NH/2/G/R

IELEASING OFIRE

C/VM/C/RR™

COR NO

(by "phone)

N$-110-447-4979

~do mwe n

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00009

¡м: 3001

• CONHIUENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

• ROUTINE

CENTRAL INTILRIOUNCY AQUNCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA/GUATEMALA

DATE OR 30 JUNE 1965

iNa

TDCS DB-315/02278-65

DISTR & JULY 1969

SUNECT

PLANS OF ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU TO UNDERTAKE

SMALL OPERATIONS IN GUATEMAL

PLACE A

DATE ACO UNITED STATES, MIAMI (2 JULY 1965)

REF

IN

884494

HELD REPORT NO. UPG- 7328

APPRISAL A CONS REURNG PRON THE REFUGE HAS ON ON EY NEER LE.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM

05

1. ' FIELO COMMENT: ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU, GUATEMALAN MILLIONAIRE

LIVING IN MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, HAD RECRUITED CUBAN EXILES IN

THE MIAMI AREA WITH THE INTENTION OF TRANSPORTING THEM IN A. B-25 TO

MEXICO; TRAINING THEM, AND INFILTRATING THEM INTO GUATEMALA IN AN

ATTEMPT TO OVERTHRON THE GOVERNMENT OF ENRIQUE PERALTA AZURDIA.

HOWEVER, ON 4 MAY 1965, ALEJOS AND LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ, MILITARY

LEADER OF THE CUBAN EXILES, HAD BEEN APPREHENDED AND THEIR ARMS

CACHES SEIZED BY UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.:

2. ON 38 JUNE :: LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ SAID THAT HE WAS TRYING

prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

STATUNE DIA

ARMYJACSI NAYY All

LES SHODES NSA

CIA/NICC

BORDER PATROL: CUSTOMS

CONTROLLED DISSEN

Ord

COAST GUARD

INS

/BR

---

## Page 3

• CONTROLLED DISSEM

ПЕРО 1-90 629)

IN 84494

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB -

PAOE

315/02278-65

TO LOCATE THE WHCREADOUTS OF ONE SILENCER FOR AN M-3 SUSMACHINE GUN,

ONE OF FOUR SILENCERS THAT WERE DELIVEREO TO ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU'S

GACUP AFTER ITS CACHE OF WEAPONS HAD BEEN SEIZED BY UNITED STATES.

GUVERNMENT OFFICIALS IN EARLY MAY. WHEN ASKED WHY HE NEEDED THE

SILENCERS, SIERRA SAID THAT ALEJOS DID NOT TRUST THE GUATEMALAN

GOVERNMENT CONCERNING THE PROPOSED HOLDING OF ELECTIONS ON 15 :.

SEPTENDER 1965. SIERRA SAID THAT HE HAD TALKED TO A MAN FROM'GUATEMALA

EARLIER IN THE DAY AÑO THAT THE FOUR SILENCERS THAT, SIERRA MAD IN HIS

POSSESSION WOULD BE SENT TO GUATEMALA.

3ª SIERRA REVEALED THAT ALEJOS PLANS TO UNDERTAKE SMALL •

OPERATIONS WITHIN GUATEMALA AND .... TO USE ONLY TWO OR THREE MEN

TO ACCOMPLISH THESE MISSIONS. HE SAID THAT ALEJOS WOULD NOT BE ..

NEEDING ANY HEAVY ARMS TO CARRY OUT HIS PLANS.

4. SIERRA MENTIONED THAT ONE OF THE MEN WHOM HE HAD MET DURING

HIS TRIP TO GUATEMALA IN LATE APRIL AND EARLY MAY, AN AIR FORCE

OFFICER, TOLD SIERRA THAT ALEJOS WOULD NOT HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THE ....

GUATEMALAN AIR FORCE JETS BECAUSE THEY WERE LIGHTLY ARMED AND THEIR

PILOTS WERE POORLY TRAINED. HOWEVER, THE OFFICER ADVISED SIERRA

THAT THE PROPELLER-DRIVEN AIRCRAFT WOULO INDEED BE A THREAT BECAUSE

THEY WERE HEAVILY ARMED AND WERE FLOWN BY WELL-TRAINED PILOTS.

• THE OFFICER THEN PROPOSED TO SIERRA. THAT HE (THE OFFICER BE NOTIFIED

OF THE DATE OF ALEJOS PLANNED COUP ATTEMPT SO THAT HE COULD ENTERTAIN

SOME OF THE PILOTS AT HIS HOME ON THE NIGHT PRECEDING THE OPERATION.

HE SAIO THAT AFTER A FEW HOURS OF PARTYING; THE PILOTS WOULD BE RIPE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTROLLED DISSEM

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS DB-

315/02278-65

FOR CAPTURE.

S. FIELO DISSEME CINESO, CINCLANT, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

•OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, IANS, BORDER PATROL, FAA, AND USCE. (ALSO

SENT

AND MEXICO CITY.)

16-7

16-2

PAGE 3

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSEN

t00*

2I13R

---

