# 104-10165-10000

## Page 1

104-10165-10000

18 Septeaber 1961

HEXORANDIM FOR:

A/DDP/A

SUBJECT

Mr. Leo Cheme end his Isplied Offer to

Construct a solid Anti-Castro Revolutionary

Front sithin finety Days

lo This nemorandu la provided the A/DDP/A for bis infor

netton.

2, Reference is sade to N5'.. Carey's memorandus of 23 August

(ttschnent 1) slich repurts on a recent seeting of MI.. Cherne

and the New York representative of 00 Contact Division, during

shich Mr. Cherne stated that be felt certain that within a period

of ninety days he could construct a solid revolutionary front out

...of the several: Cuban exile groups and novements. Additionally,

he indicated a former working relationship with

the Agency and

specifically with MI. ludy Gover, foruer seputy Chieï, Western

Sendaphere Division, the DCI, and "the IDi? people".

The Contact

blutsion representatives believe that even though Mr. Cherno's

• renarks concerning the unification of Cuban exile elenants were

probably Intended to provoice a reaction, be has, no doubt, given

the matter considerable thought and he my approach the Deputy

Director (Plens) of the DCI in the near future regarding this

matter.

3o Arailable Information indicates that MI. Cherne 18

reputed to be an outstanding Aperican liberal. As Executive

Secretary of the Research Institute of Asarica, Analyst and Cos

pentator fry Mutual Broadcasting and forder Chalman of the

International Rescue Comittee, he has considerable stature and

reputation for expertness in a nunber of fields.. These fields

Include governental, social and economic refor, lax legislation,

and refugee problens.

After World War II be revised the Japanese

tax and fiscal structura and subsequently be vocked on political

and econonie problens involved in the Industrial development of

Porto Rico, West Berlin and south Vietner, He 18 a strong advo

bringinz abour economic and social change..

18. sey

SEGRET

201-74667

RETURN TO ClA

Beckground Use Onl

Do Not Roprachca

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEBRFT

•2.

Ao La the sprlag of 1959, MI. Charne us granted a POA

perposes.. Alchough & contract for his services had been dea

up, 16 was never execated.

In early 1959, MI. Cherne pre-Ided

beckground lafornation on a number of proadscat Cuben politteal

figures and at one point he offered to act an en intermediary

offer was not eccepted.

sation betasen HI. Chernjand It. Redolph &. Gones, the Deputy

Chief of Western Hemlopbere Division, concerning thie natter.

HI. Cherne's POs explied in ApIll 1960, but could ba reloacated

since bis security investigation uns completad in late 1959.

5. In regard to HI. Cherne's statement that he was 1n

contect uith several Cuben ex la leaders, Attachment C 1a a

rapart of MI. Cherra's seeting with Real CHIBAS, LiA forme

Puty of Hasolo RAY, the leader of the KR? group.

Investigation and arudy of the possible utilization of

Mr. Cherne sad/or stallat persons will be continued. the pre-

Ven assoctatic between lit. Cherne and the Westoch Eelsphe

Dataion mas, howaver,

sufficient to indicate it would not be

dest:solo: to Cy to 0t111se hla as the principal advisor of tha

It mang, not

We be possible ule he to te

an internedlery with certain Cuban opposition elenots or parhapa

sinilar greupe in the Dominican Republic or elsenhore in. the.

Bustern Headsphere:

15/ J. C. Find

J. G. KING

Chief,

Western Bentsphere Divleton

Attachaenth:

03

jibb (18 Sep 61)

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addresses w/atta.

1 - C/WHD wo/atts.

1 - C/Wa/4. wo/atts.

- TH/4/PA-PROP wo/ati

WH/4/DR wie/att

1

SECRET

'gio

---

