# 104-10404-10264

## Page 1

110410404-102641

1. Fustos: Jz

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

WIN/ 3/365100

5940

LE NO INDEX

29 Hovember 63

LE FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-287248 Destroy

3

THE SETTE HOUSE

ATT'N: MR. MOGEORGE BUNDY

THE STATE DEPARIMENT

MR. U. ALEXTS JOENSON

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESTICATION HE

ROUTING

4

5

29 Now 63

18 40z

C/WH 4

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI 2, VR

DEFENFEDGEN

ROUTINE

fit..

IMMEDIATE

INFO

CITE DIR

TRAVEL OF LER HARVEY OSWALD

85715

1.

THR FOLLOWING INFORMATION HAS BEEN GATHERED FROM RELIABLE SOURCES

REGARDING THR TRAVEL OF IRE HARVEY OSWALD AND EIS WIFE:

Ao

9 OCTOBER 1959: ACCORDING IO OFFICIAL BRITISH TRAVEL RECORDS

OSWALD APRIVRO III SOUTHAMPTON THIS DATE CLATMING ON HIS LANDING CARD THAT HE HAD

HO FIXED ADDRESS BUT PLANNED TO REMAIN IN THE UNITED KINGDOM ONE WERK FOR VACATION

BEFORZ GOING ON TO "SOME SCHOOL, IN SWISSE." (ERADQUARTERS COMMENT:

PROBABLY

REFERRING TO I ALBERT SCHWER COLLEGE IN SWITZER aBSIRE IS KNOWN

TO HAYE BXEN IN CORRESPONDENCE.)

CONDUCTED ON

2.4. MAY 1976

E IMPDET CL BY 012208

B.

10 OCTOBER 1959: ACCORDIG TO THE SANE ORSICIAL, BRITISH TRAVER

SECONDS NEVA LET LONDON TEES DATE BY AIR FOR UBTSINKI.

C. OCTOBER 1959: SIOCKHCLAM NESPAPER "DACENS NYHSIER" OF 25 NOVEMAIR

2963 STATES LES OSAID PASSID THROUG SHED DURING OCTOBER 1959.

ARTICLE ALSO

GADDS THAT OSWALD WAS UNSUCCESSFOL IN OBTAINING VISA TO THE USSR IN HETSKINKI WHICH

FRESUITED IN HIS REIURNING TO STOCKHOLM. TWO DAYS AFTER HE ARRIVED IN STOCKHOLM

LOSHALD TRAVELED DIRECTLY IO MOSCOW. COTCLUDING SENIENCE OF ARTICLE STATES "JETS

INDICATES THAT THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY (STOCKHOLM) GAVE HIN A VISA." -ACCORDIN

TO A RELIABLE SOURCE THERE WAS NO RECORD THAT THERE WAS ANY REQUEST FOR A USSE

VISA PROCESSED THROUGH NORMAL CHANNETS FOR OSHALD AI ANY TIME DURING 1959, AND

D:2i0-5-41

201-289248

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CROUP !

Escluded trom automatic

downgrading and

SECRET

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

See

Pion

Number

Saalysed

sterile

Copy

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

DIRECTOR

abis

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BECRET

RECIPENED

zoll

- 2-824

- 412

ASTOL A

UP NAD MUS

DIER THO

12-62

ROUTING

4

5

documeni.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

SOURCS INDICATED IF WAS DIFFICUIT TO EXPLAIN HOW OSHALD MIGHT HAVE RECEIVED HIS

VISA IN TWO DAYS WITHOUT GOING THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS. THIS ONLY CONCLUSION

SEICH CAN BE DRAIN IS THAT OSHALD MUST HAVE RECEIVED HIS VISA DIRECILY FROM THE

SOVIET EMBASSY IN SOCKEGIN WHICH OCCASIONALLY IS DONE II SPECIAL CASES, BUT THE

SOURCE HAD SO EVIDINOS TO CONFIRM THIS ASSUMPTION.

D. IO TO 15 OCTOBER 1959: ACCORDING TO A VERY RELIABLE BUT EXTREMELY

SENSITIVE BOURCE OSWALD SPATED AT THE TORNI HOTÉL, IN HELSINKI FROM 10 TO 11

OCTOBER AND THEN MOVED IO JHE KLAUS KURKI HOTEL WERE HS STAYED UNTIL IS OCTOBER,

APPARENTLY HATTLIG FOR A VISA TO BE ISSUED HIM BY THE SOVIET CONSULATE IN HELSINKI.

HE TRAVELED TO THIS USSR BY IRATE, CROSSING AT VATVIKATA ON 15 OCIOBER.

E.' 13 MAY 1962: ACCORDING IO A DUTCH OFFICIAL SOURCE, THIE DUICH

CHARGE IN MOSCOW ISSUED A IRANSIT VISA TO OSWALD'S WIFE ON 13 MAY 1962. THEMIR :

RECORDS REVEAL HIS WIFE WAS BORH ON 17 JULY 1941 INSIBAD DE 19 JULY 1941 AND IN

SEYSRODVINSK INSTEAD OF MINSK. THERE IS NO RECORD OF HER HAVING ACTUALLY TRANSITED

I. 1962: OFFICIAL BRITISH RECORDS DO NOT REFLECT THAT OSWALD RETURNED

TO THE UNTIED STATES FROM THE USSR THROUGH TEE UNTIED KINGDOM. HOWEVER, IF HE

WERE MERELY TRANSITING, IN WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN NECESSARY FOR HIM TO FILL OUT A

LADING CARD, AND THEREFORE THERE WOULD BE NO RECORD OF HIS TRAVEL IN THE

OFTICIAL TRAFFIC INDEE.

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRBT

RÉPRODUCTION BY

THER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS •

CROUP 1

raciuced trom auromain

downgrading and

declassifiration

SHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

13-00000.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

12-62

ROUTING

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

: DIRECTOR

PACR THREY

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

G. 19638 ACCORDING IO AN SUREARLY SISTTIVE AÑD RETABLE SOURCE,

O 23 MOVANER MARIA SISTELACE, HAD OF THIS "WEIKGROUP INFORMATIS CUBA, " TOLD AN

EMPLOXES O THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN THE EACUS THAT SHX WAS SURE SUE HAD MET "THAT

181. LEE IN LAVANA, NEO DID THE MURDER." SHE DESCRIBED HIM AS A MAN OF VIOLENCE

AND ENTIRILY FULL OF HATS AND INDICATED THAT II WAS POSSIBLE THAI THIS MAN HAD

BAS MISUSED BY A GROUP, SHE SATO SUS HAD RITTEN IO "GIBSOT" ABOUT THE BAD

INPRESSION SHE HAD FAD OF THIS LEE. (HRADQUARTERS COMMENTS:

PLEASE REFER TO OUR

TELSTYPSI NOS 85182 AD 85665 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON GIBSON.) ALMOST

THREE HOURS LATER, ENSTALACE AGATE CONTACTED INE CUBAN EMBASSY IN THE HAGUE AND

SATD THAT'YE LES OF THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMALTTIR" HAD BEEN STANDERED AND 19AT

IE WAS ANOTHER. PERSON NAMED LRE OSWALD WHO HAD DONE IT. SNETILAGE SEEMED TO BE

CLAD 10 HAVE HRARD THIS "CORRECT" VERSON. (ERADQUARIERS COMMENT:

MR. IPE MAY BE

IOSITICAL MILE VINCKNT THRODORE LEE HEO REPLACED RICHARD GIBSON AS HRAD OF THE

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE.)

E. ACCORDIEG TO RELIABLE INFORMATION SNETHLAGE WAS IN CUBA IN JANUARY

1963, ARD ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL DUTCH SOURCE, SHE AGAIN TRAVELED TO CUBA FOR

THE MAY DAY CELKBRATIONS IN 1963.

END OF MESSAGE

221-289245

BASED

X LAID COO

00169450632

Shitle

PC/S COMMENT:

RICHARD HELMS - DD/P

RELEASING OFFICER

69623)* Al

2299

•7.

(60739)

#DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT GPFLOOR CABLES.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excluded trom automalic

downgrading and

SECRET

declassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

