# 104-10119-10365

## Page 1

104-10119-10365]

IE:

DLE SECRETAKIAT DISSEMINATION

„PER.

NFs

SECRET

(clossilication)

#.

RID COPY

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESs

SEGRET

INDEX

• NO INDEX

INFO:

FILE

• VI

PAGE 3

(dole ond lime filed)

ROUTESC AND/ O8 BITALS • STER-BY

RETURN TO.

®

10

BRANCH

DESTROY

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FILE RID

CHE DIRECTOR

(elite)

(reference number)

165476

KNOW THEM AND BELIEVE THEM TO BE RELIABLE, WE HAVE NO

OBJECTION TO YOUR BEING RESPONSIVE WITHOUT GIVING AWAY ANY

SENSITIVE OPERATIONAL DETAILS. .

2. DO NOT COMMENT ON ACTIVITIES OF ANY OTHER AGENCY.

DO NOT DISCUSS JKLANCE OR ANY OTHER AGENCY FUNDING, PERSONNEL

FIGURES OR INADEQUACIES. DO NOT DISCUSS INTELLIGENCE RELATIONS

OR OTHER

WITH FOREIGN GOVERNMENIS OR COVERT ACTION, OPERATIONS.

3. YOU MAY INDICATE PRINCIPAL IN JKLANCE FUNCTION ABROAD

IS TO DEVELOP INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION NEEDED BY NATIONAL

POLICY LEVELS PARTICULARLY THAT NEEDED ON SUCH CLOSED

COUNTRIES AS SOVIET UNION, CHINA AND OTHER DENIED AREAS.

EXCELLENT

THIS IS ALSO AN OPPORTUINITY TO THROW DOWN DEFINITELY AND

POSITIVELY FALSE ALLEGATIONS SUCH AS JKLANCE INVOLVEMENT

IN NARCOTICS TRAFFIC, IN MURDER OF MALCOM X AND OTHER OUT -

RIGHT FALSEHOODS RE JKLANCE WHICH ARE IN CIROULATION.

4. BEFORE ANY CONVERSATION WITH ANY NEWSWEEK

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SEGRET

CrOUFT

lacluded kom outomatle

duangrueling and

destassilication

DEPINNITIAN RY OTHES THAN THE ICINE MICE I DINUSTER

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICEA

Cape an

(pico)

7

---

## Page 2

14-00000

LiM:

EXT:

DATE:

an entra

CABLE SECRETARIÁT DISSEMINATION

BY.-

PER

COMF:

SECRET

(clogsification)

ROUTING AND/ OR INITIAIS - SEEN DY

DESTROY

RETURN TO:

10

BRANCH

FILE #I0

FILE IN ES FILE NO.

RID COPY

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESA

SECRET

INDEX

NO INDEX

INFO:

FILE

. VR

PAGE 4

(date and time filed)

(olite)

(reference number)

CITE DIRECTOR

165476

Г

CORRESPONDENT, PLEASE INSURE THAT THERE WEL BE NMENTION

BY HIM OF NAMES OF JKLANCE PERSONNEL AND THAT ANYTHING SAID

BY YOU WILL BE FOR BACKGROUND USE ONLY, NOT FOR QUOTATION

AND NOT FOR ATTRIBUTED PUBLICATION. THERE IS A VERY REAL

CONCERN FOR PERSONNEL IDENTIFIED AS JKLANCE BECOMING TARGETS

FOR PHYSICAL IS HARM BY EXTREMISTS, A PROBLEM WHICH HAS

ACTUALLY ARISEN IN SOME AREAS, PLEASE ADVISE ANY CONVERSATIONS

YOU HAVE WITH NEWSWEEK CORRESPONDENTS GIVING DETAILS OF

• QUESTIONS ASKED AND REPLIES GIVEN.

END OF MESSAGE

(pica

7

Tillaian

Thomas H. Karamessines

DDP.

RELEASING OFFICER

8

To Gorchwin

in craft

COORDINATING OFFICER$

ed fram outama

sonnyruding and

declusilicalion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICATIHO

OFFICER.

COPY NO.

---

## Page 3

TOUTING AND/OR-ITIALS - SEEN BY

606-4

G:

W. Nelson/SHalpern

C/FE;

EA/DDP.

1428/9203

TE:

30 July 198 1921

BLE SECHETARIA: DISSEMINATION

_PER

MF:

CFEY

SECRET

(classitication)

-#-

SECRET.

RID COPY

INFO:

NO INDEX

FILE

(pica)

Г

1654767

BOOK MESSAGE PRIORITY TO ALL

09

---

## Page 4

14-00000

...

191G:

8T:

LATE:

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION.

iY.

-PER.

ONF:

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

10

BRANCH

RID COPY

(classification)

SECRET

INDEX

NO INDEX

INFO:

FILE

• VR

PAGE 2

(dale and time filed)

99

DESTROY .

D

RETURN TO,

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FILE RIC

CITE DIRECTOR

(elito)

(reference number)

165476

(pi

RYBAT NEWSMEN

1. NEWSWEEK MAGAZINE IS IN PROCESS OF PREPARING MAJOR

STORY ON U.S. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INCLUDING JKLANCE. AS

WE UNDERSTAND IT STORY WILL DEAL WITH MAJOR AGENCIES IN

COMMUNITY, PERSONNEL FIGURES, FUNDING, ADEQUACIES AND

INADEQUACIES AND REORGANIZATION PROPOSALS, WE DO NOT

WISH YOU TO SEEK OUT NEWSWEEK CORRESPONDENTS IN CONNECTION

THIS STORY BUT SHOULD YOU BE APPROACHED BY THEM AND YOU

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING

---

