# 104-10112-10443

## Page 1

104-10112-10443

FILE - Al

INTERVIET PROCESSING SHEET

PD

ubjects onlen

Lucin

5015

dvice received reveals that the subject

person is

scheduled

for overseas travel as indicated below -

Daparture 8 Quae 54

Title &

Office &

Destinatio

mapar

FEL

ROUTING

Cover

Туре & По.

Return

Pas

PRELTHINAR

PROCESSING - A review of thia file and the above information reveals:

No special briefing topics

/ No special oover problems

or.

or

See below

See below

No special debriefing by other

Requires debriefings on(as circle

CRYPT

No special badges or credentials or

REMARKS

See remarke

Date of Polygraph

Lept. 1953

-

INTERVIEW

On the indicated date subject was interviered on the following points:

Security regulations in general.

Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).

Cover Story (nature of cover; adequacy or prior briefing; possibility of

inconsistencies; briefing of

spouse).

Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, credit accounts, forarding

"of mail).

Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in letters to and from Subject).

Personal Conduct (a. general good behavior, b. no black market or currency

transactions, ç. no undue curiosity in natives in his area, do no attempta

to identify or approach other CIA personnel in area except for official

business and through official channels).

?:*

Other Travel (only official travel in or through Soviet controlled areas).

I others

ACTION -

Security debriefingby the undersigned

completes action necessary in this case.

The following were obtaired from

subject and forrarded appropriately

for disposition.

I subject was referred to the follow-

ing for the indicated additional

briefing:

or

17 Subject was permitted to retain the

following for turn-in at a later

date.

By ?

Dates

2100

РД

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"'in

SECRET

Security Information

MILITARY PERSONNEL DIVISION

18 TaN 54

MEMORA DUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Careisance E:0-1322769

Subject is being assigned to

21C-

(ORGANIZATION AND STATION)

sor a period of approxinately 2 115 -

_FE - Diviaion has operational control of subject. MFD is carrying

him In a "ED status. Date and time of departure: 18 JUN 54

1800.

HOWARD J. CAQUELIN

Colone

USAF

CHIEF, MILITARY PERSONNEL DIVISION

Badge Number P- 44/..

surrendered SataNSH

SECRET

Security Information

---

