# 104-10236-10125

## Page 1

104-10236-10125

7R5Y 1304

144;

EXT.3

DISTR.3

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

DATES

22 ОСт 82 ':?

Ace?? Sw'52

CLASSITICATION

INITIALS

INiTIALS

TO

DEFEPRED

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

ROUTINE

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

7460

DIR

CITE aVa

TUTEL GYROBE

SUPDATA: AMPUD I BASED ON A LETTEE DATED 19 BEPT TO CORDO GARCIA

PEGBABLI FRON PRLICISINO DE LA ARMAS, ANUD-I"S PERSONAL REPRESATATIVE

IN CURA. PILBD 22/223/Z

EXPORT CLASS SECRET CUNTROLLED DISTEN CURA SUB: CONSTRUCTION ON

A POSSIBLE BURMARINE BASE IN CAYO FRANCES DOI: 19 BEPT 62 PADAS.

U.D. 18 CCT 68 APPR: 3 FOR PARA I AND A FOR PARA & UPG 1718.

SOUKCH: KRADING OUTICIAL (C) OF AN ANTI-CASTRO GROUP IN EXILE, MROM

AN ABBOCIATE IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH A RESYDENT OF THE AREA.

SO AN OIL PIPELINE IS REING CONSTRUCTED FROM CABARZEN OU

THE WORTH COAST OF LAS VILLAS PROVINCE TO CAYO FRANCES.

2. AOCORDING TO AN SHINKER WITH THS CUBAN INSTITUTE OF PETROLEUM

(ICP) AN UNDERGROUND SUBNARINE BASE IS BEING CONSTRUCTED ON CAYO

FRANCES.

S. FIRLD CONNENT: GEODSTIC OR GSOLOGICAL SURVY VESSELS HAVE

ESKY OPERATING IN THE HATERS ASOUND THE ARSA AND THERE HAYE BITA

MUNIYROUS REPORTS THAT UNDKRGROUND BLASTING RELATED TO OIL EXPLORATION"

HAS BERN TAKING PACE. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT AN UNDERGROUND STORAGE

GROUP & EXC: JDSD PROM

ACTUATIC DOWNGRADING

AND DECIASSIPICATION

22 AUTJENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

---

## Page 2

1639 1304

(14)

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DiSTR.:

• *•

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE

FILES

TO

CLAISIFICATION

SHITIALE

DEFERRED

ROUTINE*

ord.

PRIORITY

OPERAT. ONAL

IMILEDLATE

28 L/MA

1N1T/L#

INFO.

CITE WAVE

PACE THO

DEPOT YOR FUS MAY BE UNDER CONSTRUCTION AT FAS STFL BICAURE IT

I0 ARLIIVED THAT THS TOPOGRAPHY IS BUCH THAT UNDERGAOUND SUBMARINE

PINS TOULD NOT BE FRASIBL

I MIND DISHA: 1OH.

- 72

.. •

22-19

LLOYD E. STORBECK

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

ANDREY I. REUTENA!

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

---

