# 104-10163-10110

## Page 1

104-10163-10110|

CATIONAL PORM NO. 19

8570-104

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

ATTN: Mr.

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

DATE: 7 August 1964

Security Officer

FROM :

Director of Security

SUBJECT:

Bernard L. BARKER - H201333

I. Reference is made to your memorandum of

5 August 1964, concerning loss of U. S. Citizenship

of the subject.

2. It is the opinion of this Staff that at this late

date subject has no recourse to overturn the Depart-

ment of State's ruling that he lost his U. S. Citizen-

ship by his accepting employment in the Cuban Govern-

ment.

To protect the U. S. Citizenship of an individual

who engages in activities which would normally expatriate

himself requires prior agreement between this Agency and the

Department of State. This was not done in subject's case.

Then, too, subject, by his application for and acceptance of

an immigration visa to enter the U. S. as a permanent resi-

dent alien, is in effect, an admission by him of loss of his

previous U. S. Citizenshi;

3.

As a permanent resident alien he must await the

expiration of five years

residence before he can petition

for naturalization unless a private bill were introduced to

waive the residence requirement.

* It is believed that a review of subject'e file at the

Department of State would not reveal any information

which would change subject's statue.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

W. M. Knott

Chief, Allen Affairs Staff

SECRET

0400P 1

swagrading and

Traine

WBR

RETURN TO CIA

• Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

SENOER 'PILL CHECH CLASSIFIE.

•ON TOP AND BOTTOM

UNGLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECKET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

MeME AND ADDRESS

WH/sa/mes (Dasing)

DATE

INITIALS

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

1 SIGNATURE

W. Keinete

UNCLASSIFTED

"3-68 237

Vis perzines odillons

8ll1

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

• 48 00T100181+ 09101100 eNTIE: 1001 A

---

