# 104-10176-10025

## Page 1

104-10176-10025

RETURN 7O

• SECRET

3

Backgreund Use Only

(WHEN FILLED IN)

Do Not Reproduce

+

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET /0611 00140 0611

FROM:

TO

RI/AN

ROOM

NO

DOCUMENT NUM HKSA. 00140.

DOCUMENT DATE

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARCED!

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

131

Disl

COMMENTS

NOTE: Il a cof? or arachments are removed trom the m9-

li ted document, scto lie jocation of the cop? and/or attach

ment Emeon. It this FFCC3D COPY is to be reiained in

the luns al lo Dock Eli làe Central File Section for per-

COPY DETACHED

Санк/ео

MICROFILVED

Juir 2 1 1963

DOC. MiCRO. SER.

9.

10.

11.

12

INDEX

10,000

FILE TITLE

NASFERRERY. POJAS,

Rolando Arcadio

FILE NUMBER

13

De 57

201142669

I'NCLOSURE

ABSTRACT

Die 3 1a 1lia/957

SECRET

INDEX

---

## Page 2

VLA •

AIR

MICROFILMED

JUN 2 1 1963

DOC. MICHO SET.

SECRET

CLASSFICATION

22

TO

FROU

Chiel, MID

Chief of Bose,

Ta7: 803, 30т 1937.

CoS,

=*hana

I SPECIFIC Flight to Caracas

inte

On - December 1957,

rojando 13n.5232,

senator v.ho is noted for gangster-type ativities, and laureang

==22 Pies 3:

immediatoly, tare: the toid In an 4132r,

regarding tre reasons or tie trip becsme so rampant at during

the next wee:,

1t vas I-possible

to serrace truth fa fiction.

most prevalent ruzur of all vas thet " SERIER a-: TaRR

ad tien a sittion pesos of custom deposits and had zone to

Caracas a Incuase beavy aras, such es combs, but this, the base

belleves, has no basis in fact.

The twe reason for their trip zears to be rog along

the follo. ing lines - During the recent trouble in satiago de

Cuba, IEaRs, no is soretires said to he tie true soternment

boss in town,

becale frigatened of

rebel reprisals,

273 he sand-

begged his icuse and

ststioned an arred maid in fro.

did not quite setisty him, and

do sought erstaction

how erran, wao, it is claired, meintains bad tian siyed

„BAERA"S_ garage.

after a let

01 ts arrengemess

cold 1biarà

that he did cot have enough noney

Day S33e men

and that 1t would be nacessary for IBiz to

foot the 3111.

IdEA, noverorg clained that he was shot of money, so in order

to obtain ar operating lund,

s plon was rut into effect whereby

MASTURROR's Jen staged a series of robbaries in Santiazo de Cuba.

The man on tie street raintains that these nere 33 rocberies in

one

bus a more conservative estimete *ould

be setween 12-15.

In addition to this,

#i-Ch and IB.ii extorted various suns

ADEN

Stunti

CLASSIFICATION

RI COPY

13 Are 57

201-y2669

3/g0

---

## Page 3

SECRET

22

[u33-140

Page 2

of loney from loca: noney lenders,

authoritiza",

saying cnat the coney vas for

1,0., Gener:1 sItarJO DiL 110 Chaviano, the

militar, commander for Oriente Frovince.

hen word of tais dual

action

- ne robbe-les and tie extortion - renohed st Z0. 1e

became very angry and called in ior.-3 aid iPa

and after

CHEWIng Ten CUT,

jorced then to retur the noney

to the money

lenders.

jn leaviz

have

cor-lained to

Zare that It was

carratas,

said

to

i=j0silblo to conduct business

We given telling tien

said that his stare-ent got back to Ii 0, and consequently, there

wasn't ay comercial aviation leaving antio; o de Cuba last enough,

chey equisitiorsi the private plane and low to caracas.

3.

is stated creviously, it 13 quite difricult to separate fact

fron fistion on tris matter,

but this 13 probably the best account

of the tip that tha base has been able to l'ind.

TI prahahly votee

an overall evaluation oi lo

under ordinary circunstances here,

MNSECA-GE gn& IRiPE; probably could nave gotton awar ito their

cut theis timing

Unnown to then, they staged

the robbe=les and excortion at a tine tien DAL ATO sas up for

pronotic. - Colorel to Brigadier Generel - and wen be heard what.

they were doing he thought this would reflect against nis command,

and chereiore he put an end to their operation.

Nils to yach

Distribution:

3

las-iagton

- Fatana

rules

716-17

„SECRET

13&857

2010482669

2/930

---

