# 104-10163-10097

## Page 1

104-10163-10097

COM TDAtTIAL

OSTROLLED DISSKI

JAVE

03

Vent

UNG-3400

28 Arrant 1809

Pml?)

05

omno my bE Identienl vich Jone ANpol LOZAIO LemI

In I 1570 tron JEAN..

AUTOLATIC DOLZCRADIN

AND DECLASSIFICAT LOUI

€=

I - 00/2

Lt 1599

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onl

Do Not Reproduc

201-251689

AUG 1 € 1963

3/BR

---

## Page 2

OI

CONTICLLKS DISSK

Caba

Crention of the tenta de

Goblermo de Cuba 1n el

Killo, • Cuban Bilo

18 Auret 1093

25 July 1963

United Staten

(36 July 1009) "1009

UFG-3403

A ernined observer "1th necoon to a vido virloty of Conn

ondios, sourco 1s known to mont of bin contacto ao a chasmol

to 0.5. letelligenco. Talm Inforntion ous obtainod fron

an officer of the sor ormalition.

# ser ermatest1ca, the Ami de Cobtero de Cula 1n ol

Rellie (OCE, Junta of the Governont el Cuba 1n lille),

Ima been erented on the bela os contreta bestoon elle

lombar nod Americas barduns 11am.

Offieen have leem

teo Secrutary Onur

Ironi Atir

Marscon

Paulino A. Mere

Caplos Horries

mounta!

Ister! Bolatsem

Propagam

Labor

Alberto Querido

Reimldo Des

Ilitary Opoentien

The Jock vo edunend $100,000 fer 1t0 oranlestion ent

80r mistemas cuto.

Operatio! Tris ase espoeted te

ho advanced on projecto aproved by « irous of Assican

Muns Deting the JoCh, Military orrations aso te be

ponente? nos 28 tão vaited trait company, one of tho

Ono e tie 11rst miertakin os the emmetton 1111 De

to statien ten son in ench Intin Anorte contry and

dolortsos in oth foreten mtions. In ench of the be-

min chingtiRas theTO arO tO DO thr00 labor spresalin.

COUTIDIITIAT

CONTROLAZD DI83KN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COITIDETTIAL

COTTONS DIREC

---

