# 104-10186-10106

## Page 1

104-10186-10106

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATIOn REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT

Policy Guidance Directives for

Cuban

Intelligence Representa

tives' in Guatenala

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORFIGS DISSEM

REPORT NO. CS-311/05330-64

DATE DISTR

3 Noveraber 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00315-64

DATE OF

INFO.

1963

RETURN TO CIA

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. June 1964

Background Use Only

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION.

DO NOt FOREPEES AN SEE RE PORT NO. OF CONTENT S TENTANVE

SOURCES

A former Cuban Intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a

document which Source provided containing the policy guidance

directive for Cuban intelligence representatives in Guatemala,

prepared ov the coneral Mirectorite of Intelligence (Direccion

General de

Inteligencia - DGI), MA Department.

The MA Depart-

ment no longer exists as such,

dopartments:

having been divided into two

Illeral Department (Ilegal) and National Libera-

tion Department (Liberacion

NacionaT

This directive

to have been prepared

prior to the

overthron of

President Miguel Yafgorar Fuentes.

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION: GUATENALA

IMPERATIVE:

1. - Collective action.

2.

3.

• The fight for national liberation.

- Training camps and bases of operation.

1. - The armed forces of Guatemala.

5. - The Communist Party of Guatenals.

6. - Counterrévolutionary organizations.

7.

- Relations with the U.S.A.

8

- Position of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

S.

10.

- The elections.

• Movement

with Cuba.

11.

- Repressive organizations.

4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

TAIR

INsa

STATE.

1 DIA

ARAY

REPCINCLANT

CISCSO =

¡Note: Field distriburban

indicated by "2*1

MAVY

1 oce

IFBI

2

INEORMATION REPORT INFORMALION REPORT

DI-191

INP (ANMUG-1)

For Distribucion See ALlached Bize

•CS-311/05330-64

CL/LS

TORALS DE 3, CI 21. RIDIAN LOUISA 86(5D, SR+EI 3,

l 8104891908

RAO RIT

inte

---

## Page 2

14000.

Idgrs Dissom

WH/COPS

WH/PO/A

WIl/PO/B .

WH/ 1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/3/V

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/MOB

WIL/SA/R

WH/SA/Int

#H/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff

CI Lialson

CI/RBA

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AN/E

NE/AA/I

NE/S/P

NE/G/C& I

NE/intol

WE/1

WE/2

G,7V

Bool frat

13

1

1

30

194

1

1

1

food parts

1

1

199

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 1a.

WE/3

WE/4

WE/5

WE/DC

WE/R

1

1

1

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

1

1

Fiold Disses

WH/MEXI

WHI/ MNTY

WH/MRID

WH/SDOM

WH/PIBO

WH/POSN

WH/KNGS

WH PRIN

WH/GORG

WH/PACY

WH/MANA

WH/SJOS

WIL/SALV

WH/TEGU

WIL/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WH/ BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

WH/LIMA

WIL/CARA

WH/BUEN

WH/COBA

WH/MONT

WH/ASUN

WHI/ SAGO

WH/RIOD

WH/CURI

WH/BRIL

WH/SAOP

WH/BHIA

WH/BEHO

WH/ LGRE

WIL/RECI

WH/SA/WAVE

1

1

1

1

5

AF/ALGI

AF/ORN::

AF/RABA

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF/CNRY

AF/BAKO

AF/DARE

1

Jad pond fond

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS-311/05330-64

LE/VIEN

EE/SBUR

EE/ CYRU

EE/ATHE

EE/ KAVA

EE/SLON

EE/BERN

EE/ GNVA

EE/ZURI

EE/HAMS

FE/DJAK

FE/MEDN

FE/SURA

FE/ TOKY

FE/OKIE

FE/SEOU

FE/SAIG

FE/KOBE

AE/COLO

- NE/NEWD

SE/ BOMB

NE/CALC

SE/MDRS

NE/ KUWA

NE/KAHI

NE/DACC

NE/ LAHO

NE/RAWL

NE/ BAGH

NE/BEIR

SE/DAMA

NE/ALEP

NE/JIDD

NE/ DAHA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

WE/00 PE

WE/HELS

SE/OTTA

WE/ ROME

WE/MILA

HE/HAGU

WE/OSLO

WE/LISB

WE/MADR

WE/BARC

HE/STOC

WE/LOND

WE/ PARI

Liaison Dissem

1

1

hot hurt that that for

1

1

1

1

1

e/Canada

1

L/WASH/BR] 11

99

---

## Page 3

4-g0001

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 2 =

CS-311/05330-64

INPORTANT:

13: = Internal soltay on the countred forces.

15. - Structure

17. - The press.

NECESSARY:

15: = Seate of the National Bconowy.

Belize.

LINES AND OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION: GUATENALA

IMPERATIVE:

1.

COLLECTIVE ACTION

and CDCA to attain

2.

b)

Mobilization and preparation of the Guatemalan Army to

this end; men and equipment which would participate;

units and the number of units; leaders in charge.

c)

Novements and joint military operations in Guatemalan

territory together with the army of other Central American

countries; provocations intended to present Cuba's

or this

d)

Central American secret military meetings at which

agreements are reached and plans are discussed.

e) Measures against trips to and from Cuba.

{)

Possibilities of breaking with Cuba by any Latin American.

countries

which maintain relations.

THE STRUGGLES FOR LIBERATION

c)

laborers.

Yong Sosa, Paz Tejada, and the PGT.

The struggle in the city: groups, leaders, organization,

work,

work which they do, role of the student

Rebel tendencies within the armed forces; necessity to

penetrate these tendencies.

Relations between the groups which operate in the city and

those operating in the country.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSEM

-3-

CS-311/05330-64

e) Relations of the exiled elements with the rebel movement.

1) Present stare

and development of unity between the rebel

forces:

the Civic Front, the COR, the Rebellion BloC.

8) Permanent and periodie contacts with all of the forces of

the Left.

b) Position of the PT on the unification of the Central

American

Communist Parties in regard to the development

of guerrilla warfare.

1). Position of the rebel forces toward the Cuban Revolution.

3.

TRAINING CAMPS AND BASES OF OPERATION:

a) Location of the Cuban morcenaries' training camps which

established or are being established in Guatemalan

torritory.

b)

Organizations which. are at the head of the training camps.

Number of mercenaries in these camps; type of training and

its duration; mercenaries' zones of access

into the

country; transport used for this; instructors; mobilizi-

tion and concentration of the mercenaries.

c) Cover under which the training camps operate and the

conditions of these camps; participation in the training

of mercenary elements of other countries.

d)

Izabal, Fallovum,

Benqueviejo,

there; number and nationality; type of training;

transports of

these elements; duration of training;

instructors; presence of Yankee troops in the camps,

their role.

Plans and immediate objectives of training

and if such was being conducted by the Guatemalan Army;

Yankee leaders in the camps.

e)

Training camps in other zones of the country; character

istics and

goals

of these camps; new camps of the army

used by the Yankees.

Bases of operations of the counterrevolutionary elements;

and quantity; plans of aggression

Ships they posses these elements; departure and return of

and objectives

the ships.

4.

ARMED FORCES OF GUATEMALA

a)

Armed forces of Guatemala. Organization of these armed

forces.

Units and strength.

Armaments and

transports,

Leader of the armed forces.

b) Estimated appropriations of the armed forces; appropria

tions to each branch.

c) Bilateral agreements with the U.S.

missions

Yankee military

in these agreements;

their role and function.

• Activities developed by them.

d)

Units and effectives of the Guatemalan armed forces avail

able to become part of

the CDCA forces.

Participation of

the Guatemalan armed forces.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

1d-0d0d

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

CS-311/05330-64

e) Units and strength of the armed forces with anti-guerrilla

training.

Officers

who are instructors in the courses.

modern armaments used.

Transports and armaments which

these troops have on hand.

" Inspecto saura durate or instruce on, a retori.

Changes in armaments; ner weapons acquired, their character-

istics.

3. THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF GUATEMALA (THE PGT)

a) Position toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

b) Position on Cuban-Soviet relations.

and international

d)

Position

in relation to the disagreements in the Inter-

national Communist Movement.

e) In the case of China and the USSR.

{) In the case of Albania and the USSR.

g) In relation to the Yugoslavia-China-USSR and Albania

question.

h) In relation to Peace.

1) In relation to penceful co-existence.

i) Internal situation of the party: leaders (and data oi

these lenders): activities: disarreements.

k) Relations with the Leftist forces: disagreements; pos-

sibilitles of union.

1) Methods of struggle officially adopted by the party.

m) Relations with the guerrilla movement.

n) Necessitles of the PGT.

o) Work in the countryside.

p) Relations with the bourgeois partles.

q) Party's attitude toward the elections. Work carried on.

r) Work of solidarity with the Cuban Revolution.

s) Publicity media of the PGT.

t)

Permanent and periodic contacts with the PGT.

u)

Party's position in regard to the integration of the

Central

American Communist parties in order to develop

guerrilla warfare.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEY

---

## Page 6

14-00000

S-F-C-H-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/05330-04

6. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

0) Delegations of the counterrevolutionar organizations

which oporate in the country.

Leaders of the same.

Relations of the latter with

the government of Guatemala;

existing contacts.

samo in the Guntennlan

Forces, ranks

and rosponsl

billtios which thoy hold. Contact with idigoras and the

government.

c) Organizations which participate in the meetings with

leaders of government and polities:

Contact of the

organizations with the candidates for che national

presidency, and persons who carry out the contacts.

) Communications botwoon the branches and Miami, throug

hom, and what coulpment is utiltzed

7. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES

a) Alliance for Progress.

b) Relationg with the Unlted States loan organizations.

c) United States military ald:

role of the U.S. Militar.

Mission.

fraining of Guatemalan soldiers in schools of

the U.S. Armod Forces.

d)

olitical Influence of the United Fruit Co. Methods o

ideological penetration.

adio networks.

•) The United States Embassy.

Ambassador

and

Data on the activities of the

the porsonnol of the Embassy.

8. POSITION OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION

a) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

b) Regarding Cuban-Sovlet relations on matters which affect

Cuba and world peace.

c) Regarding the accusations that Cuba is a base of Communist

aggression against Latin American countries.

9.

ELECTIONS

a) Electoral activities of Arevalo: his relations with

the U,S, Embassy and the bourgeois political

contact

contact and varganisations.

Need to estabilsh

Sectoral activitles of the bourgeois political partie

nd opposition partie:

c) Tho govornment's clectoral campaign.

The activities of the Church in the clection. Role of thi

Auxiliary Bishop Marlo Casartego

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 7

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY

DISSESI

• 6 =

CS-311/05330-64

e) Pressures and mancuvers of the United States In Guat

emala and

in general what can be kaown about the same

in other countries, with respect to the points above.

1) Information on the maneuvers for rupture with Cuba in

the other countries.

Influence of the banana

campaigs [companies/ and the

United States on the elections.

1) Attitude of the rebel groups toward the election.

10.

MOVEMENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

•) Learn the capability of effective actions of solidarity

which the rebel organizations

have.

11. REPRESSIVE ORGANIZATIONS

"Coordmalane bees tasked tune American intelligener

coordination,

b)

Objectives and plans developed to attain the same. Plans

against Cuba,

and internal repression plans for the

countries of

the area.

leetings of the chiefs and ministers of the interior o

the Contral American countrirs.

Meetings of the chief:

of military intelligence in those countries.

e)

existing among the various Central American

services.

Persons who represent Guatemala.

{)

Contact with Interpol.

same.

Coordination existing with the

Restrictive measures

on travel to Cuba. Agents.

INPORTANT:

12.

DOMESTIC POLICY OF THE COUNTRY

a)

composition, strength,

, leaders (data on the same), program.

b)

Relations of the bourgcois political parties with the

U.S. monopolies.

The Embassy and the Church.

13.

INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES

a) Groups within

the armed forces inclined to perpetrate à

coup.

b) Dats on the military chiefs and their activities.

c) Work of the Auxiliary Archbishop Mario Casarlego within

the armed forces

and in relation to the armed forces of

other

Central Anerican countries.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-7=

CS-311/05330-64

d). Data on the military who are in the international

organizations (IDB. UN) and of the military astachés

in and from Latin American countries.

14. THE CHURCH

a) Ecclesiastical hierarchy..

b) Position

and relationships between the natiotal clorgy

and the foreign clergy.

c) Participation of the Church in the domestic poldey of

the country®

d)

Secular organizations of the Church (Catholic Working

Youth, etc.).

e) Campaigns of the Church; reasoning used against Cuba.

$) Influence of the Church in the education of the country.

g) Connections between Church plans and plans of the United

States.

Allianco

for Progress, Peace Corps.

h) Relationship between the Church and the armed forces.

15.

STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND FUNCTIONING OF ITS AGENCIES

a) Relations between the presidency and tho ministrios.

b)

Data on the

persons closest to and most influential with

Ydígoras.

c)

The congress.

the government and

Outstanding personalities.

Relations with

the United States Embassy and the

banana monopolies.

d) Judicial power:

persons who occupy the highest appoint

ments.

Important laws.

Repressive laws.

Relations of

the judicial power with the other powers.

e) Mayors of tho principal citles. Data on the same.

16.

FUNCTIONS,

SUNICE SHA TEE DISTOCATIC CRAS ACCREDITER TO THE COURTEEN

a)

UN.

b)

OAS and IDB.

c) Officials in and of the Latin American countries.

17. THE PRESS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

u80.

CS-311/05330-64-

NECESSARY

18.

STATE OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY

a) New economic policy of the United Frult Company.

b)

Unsted Statos Investments.

c) U.S. capital existing in the country and its influence.

d) Trend in the unemployment lovel.

0) The rolations of Guntemala with a view to Central

American economic integration,

19. BELIZE

•) Dispute for the territory of Belize among Mexico,

Honduras, and Guatomala.

Differ ods between England and the United States on the

c) Plans of Ydígoras to annex Belize.

d)

Possibility of establishing a center in Bellze.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

1:

---

