# 104-10177-10068

## Page 1

104-10177-10068

i...

z/FV

16-3

Frein:

Repare No: 10713379 beral File No.:

Number spreet:

Number of enclosures

Report made tv: Blornor Do Plaster/odp_

Approved by: Willard Co Gurciale

Distraution.

3

= 11q0.

Ely cripy 80:

-Habana 116-17

Orally to:

Lea

Source cryptingm: LDASK

Snurce, operatonnl data. and comments:

SUBJECT: Cuban Political Situation

COMMSNT:

References:

Marind tha saxt daze

hiashing ton to contret CanCIA Junon (Inu) ant otters to learn

what 1a to harpan. ORTii said that Oscar IS lA TORE, the

Cuban Ambassador,

who has boen hid friand for a long llne,

askod him not to call at to

Embasay during the day for tha

reason montionod in the report. ORIEdA tont to sea hu bo

fore leaving for Hian.

Do Not Reproduce

Background Use Only

RETURN TO CIA

Clansification

19•A 51-59

(S COPY,

11-89-5

---

## Page 2

F1. LO INTORMATION RIE ORI

f•л:

Ward Kr

it Pritiess d. $509945e8 859n9

S-E-C-R-F-T

COUNTeY

SUBJECT

cuban Poliliral Situation

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REFORT

NO. OF PAGES

REFERENCES

1285-3379

12. Mart 1758

DATE"O!

INTO,

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SQUECE EVAIET!

SOURCE;

7cmal 10690

AFE PIANTINE.

SAFTAISAL OT CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOIL FOREGONE EAPLAFATION

erson with create arra Carlison remlalonaries (8)s srors

a cuban oxile (E)o Apaminal of Coutonso

in antched misintly be Frosiant B

Enhassy.

Ds la sure said that cullio gents fortuondo, Cubaa

marescalation de the linigel Batiouse was discusted with TISIA

Impare one.

a lA Port: allel chat carrera had planned to bur

sow fun Crocheslovakin, but that ho lind able him charco his

minto Tha Anhassador considers iTISTA's gosition untonablo,

maunt tion dor

mai, 19 In Caracas

CastRo inn tho tenazuela lunt.

Iyne Cornt.

DISTRIBUTION

Hab12a

16-17

2/PV

---

