# 104-10265-10118

## Page 1

104-10265-10118

SECRET

20

octobs 1958

MITORANDUM FOR THE RECUTO

MighaIrhta of Tape-Rooorded Conversation In Mard Betrom

Mr, Willlam D. Parley

and an Undientirind Cuban during

Poriod 11-18 Ootober

On 20 Ootober the underaignod and

alatened to the play-back of a tope, brought to Woahinaton from Man

and given to Colonel Ning by Mr. Foley on 19 October, which was a

recoruling of Mi. Puley's converdutiona with too Cubano during the

porlor 17ml8 Octobir.

the firot converostion vas with on winentilled

Cuban, bollaved to bo a monor of a group of realthy anti AnTO Cubang,

serbors of which hove talked to Mr. Paulor recently about their

plana for saborage of the coning ougar hugest 19 reported in UNi-32

dated 2 Dotober.

The necond Cuban wag AXPACal, & Cuban journaliet

of oporational intorest to Statlon Habana,, and a soperato reorandum

Tho unidantlfied Cuban, who had conchat of an accent and

apoke indiatinctly, won deficult to undorstand.

'Ho montioned o

meeting "with somo

plane,

al our peopla sho oame up Iron Cuber to diaouse

He aald hia proup had beon contactod by a representative of

General dono Sloutorio PRoRAZA, leadar ni cuban revolutionary troupe

In tho Dominioan Republlo, who wanted to know what action their groip

hod taken and sas told that they had a plan to start saborare.

Cuban aald the PEDRAZA ropresentativa said thats group (tho PIDRAZA

Broup) had four provinode organised in Cuba, nentioning Conquey and

Santa Chard, and that they had two provinces yet to be organired

Mabana and Matonsag.

3o The Cuban said Mid group nondod two thinge m moral backing

and sonoy, ho pointod out that Cubans in Ouba are afrald to start en

underground novement, and there was no lay to raise funds, ete.

Filey give hia so encouragement on the money angle, sayine that eve

1I thore wore Anericana w1lling to rus the risk of. bocomins Involved

In Cuban revolutionary sotivitico by furnialine money for such a

sovoent, which he doubted, ho felt that at the promont time 1t woule

be like

"putting soney dam a rat-hole" for the following raasona

(2) thoro 1a no unity mong the antI-CASTRO groups, and tiere are at

Jeast 10 that ho knowe of who are working absolutely independently of

one anothers and (2) CASTRU 18. 11 contral of the country and has the

cupport of a larro number of Cubano, especially the under privilegod.

Mr. Poloy mold he salt the Cuban econonic situation was voreering

fust and that 1f 18 rits bad anough, a large number of Cubana will

turn on CASTRO, but until that time cores it would be dangerous to

Bry to organito a rovolutionary roverut.

SECRET

201-77319

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Mr. Padey aakne

the Cuben 18 hia sour felt they had mral

apport of the U. 3. and the Cuben replled that they wonted U. s.

noral suupons but whether they had it or not, they role Chag-vere

obadged to carry through with their piano.

Fo, Porlos maid bo didn't

know whai lo toll him sold hove to think abrict 16 ind son 15 nay

BLine couLd Do done.

Ho said,

"having boen cornclud with the U. Be

dovernment, 'I can't get Inulied in retolutionary movemento".

ould he usuld haro to gne cho Douininon Governaent 508 Insolved,

wach night ho diffiould do evold with do many Cubas axiles there,

but contented that ho unissetcod "the Donintean Covement hasn't

even them a dise".

Hawtha Tharpe

WH/III/CARIB

SECRET

---

