# 104-10219-10080

## Page 1

104-10219-10080

comas

1 Hat913 01-166116

Coief of Station,

199 1851296 412:113

¡CART QUALI ED DISE

FROM

Chiel, ME

Dre Roscoe WiLTA

ACTION RIGUALD MUERENCES

Bee peras 1, 2.

S0T 65:379

-91595545O

La Attached for your Inforation ad une 1e a Copy of a otatenent by

DY. COOTE FINNIHIR ConCerng his and Ir. Walte'a contacta with William

Banilton MARTIN st the Lebeder Institute In MoscoN (Aa you know, MARTIN

1i süertical with the Maktin uno with Miciril, delectod to the sortet Union

11 Beptember 19600) ODENVY and ODINCH are interested in having De. WilT.

interviesed for complete and detallod information concerning hia contacta

With MAPPIN and the girl secretary nened Alla at the Instituto. You may

Infora It. WIKTS that ODENVY has requerted that he be inter leved so this

matter in connaction with a ratter of official Intereat to them

20

Intorution avatlable to Hendgartera Indicates that De. Roscoe WITTS

1B Jirted on the teuching stair of UCAVIL, located in Triesto.

Headyuartars cortosent has an Interest in UCANIL and has askod that the

persos no Intervione Ir. WEY provide a ceneral asseument report concerning

bin. It l0 suggented that tais be accomplinhed ulthout Dr. MUTE's beconing

avare of a posalblo operational interest in bin.

The ascosonent should be

forvarded an a separate atracarent to your rabort.

3. It 1e requented that

station decide bou this netter should be

It has been pending for some tine since it appeared that de. wire

mEnt roture to the states.

It now appesra ho will remin abroad for another

your auratore, it sould bo approciated 1i his Interview could be bandlod

no expeditloualy sa posaiblo end your omnication mited for the attentico

JENI NES

Taci

0.21

pms.

015625 9і

12

DOC. MICRO.

PeR.

JUN 221970

0 &

est 63l.23

asi es (192

1L:5 4à1

8,x2

Tore

an our (an

NO (0D

Distgittion:

2 - COS.

v/att

introm

115

CROSS REFERENCE TO

VIDA NiNt

+ 24330

DESPATDA SYMODL ANO MUNISER

Arthur E. Vigerie

201-282338

PIT. AUG 1965

001 97 852

- Cx/s5o

CI/BIO

C/C]/370

AC/CI

CATE

113 ing

16 amei

CRIGINATING

_ORDINATING

CEFICER'S FASAE

Birch D. o Hea

pistas

-ELEASING

-16827

c/133/ 4

MOUS EDITIONE

DISPATCH

---

