# 104-10128-10380

## Page 1

104-10128-10380.

CONFIDENTIAL

Chief, Physical Security Division

29 August 1955

Acting Chief, Fhysical Survey Branch

Security Violation - Lost Classified Material - Found on Cuard's Dewk

In Ples Building - PHILLIPS, David Atloe

1. On 22 Aurust 1955 at 12115 F. M., PBS Guard Morris reported that

he had found & brown envelope on the guard

deck in i&s Building which soneone

had Inadvertently left there. The lace of the enelope bore the name "Dave

Phillips" and the words "Hand Carry".

The envelope, which was sealed.

contained various completed personnel forms on Ni.

applicant for Agensy employment. Une of the personned Jorus vas Classified

CONFIDENTIAL.

2. On 22 August 1955 Nr. Ralph & Tobtannen, of this Branch, Investiguted

the violation. A check of Badge Orfice files showed, that Dauld Atlee Phillipe

was assigned to DD/P/pP. Accordingly, M1n8

Security

officer, Do/p/pi, was inforned of the matter and ir. phuips, special Assistant

to the Chles, PP/ICD/Analyats and Assessent branch, was Interviewed.

Mr. Phillips advised that he was custodian of the material. He

stated that upon leaving Ris Bailding at about 12:00 Moon on the date In

question, he has placed the envelope on the luard's desk while signing the

Coard Register for a visitor and had forgotten to take the envelope idth him.

He advised further that ho had returned at about 12:15 P.M. to look for the

material and was inforned that the Juard had turned It over to the Office of

security.

CONCLOSION $

4o The cirounstances in this case indicate that Mr. Phillips 18 solely

responsible for the security violation.

SECUrITY HISTORY:

5. No previous security violationa have been charged to Mr. Phillips.

Harry F. Dugan

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

z/p.t

CONFIDENTIAL

---

