# 104-10234-10267

## Page 1

104-10234-10267

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

• Records Collection Act of.1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

-.

NW 53217 6/20/17

SECRET

16 SEP 1963

MENOBANDUM

SUBJECTS

GLIKSBERG, Salomo

In seply to your telophone request of 10 September 1969,

attached korewith la an excerpt from the dispatch to which you

refarzad.

Ench, l attachnent an etsted abore

KX-3832

RID/CE:

BASED ON:

FILE IN:

JKS/GK/nkc

HZPW -7469

201-41581

24

FILE IN 201-4/58t

SECRETA

a to stret

16-57:91 388

411791111071230

---

## Page 2

104-10234-10267

SECRET

SUBJECT: GLIKSBERG, 8hlomo

l. According to Federal Barcau of Investigation Information

received August 1968, GLIKSBERG was appointed the Chaleman of

President-elect ARIAS' Commisalon on Domestic and International

Commerce. A Federal Bureau of Investigation comment notes that

ible appolatment may have been made for the purpose of demoustrating

to tha jewina communlty In Panama that ARIAS boro ita members so

I wILl. GLIKSBERG was described as & businessman with Intereato

la plywood and machinery Imports. According to GLIKSBERG, ho

was named ARIAS' personal adviaor on economic and financial matters.

and GLIKSBERG Implied that he had numerous contacte in Washingtos.

2. Information dated September 1968, and recelved from the

Foderal Bureau of Investigation stated that GLIKSBERG is a Paramanlas

basiaossman and philologlet who formerly represented ARIAS' Intereste

la tobacco and coffee. Due to his forelga language ablilly and expert

knowledge in banking and flsance be was (at time of writing) a trusted

BOVISOr Of ARLiS', at AÑLAS' bequeat. A Central Intelliganco Agency

sOnICA Bisu reporteá at this time that A RIAS and GLIKSBERG seemed

to have a very frlendly rolationship. This source made the following

comments about GLIKSBERG; "...a very amooth, well-educated

and articulate man... He speaks excellent English and sounde like an

Israell who might have roceived part of blo education in the United

Etates..."

3. In June 1969, Information was received fram the

Immigration and Naturalisation Service Indicatlog that German

Ambassador KOSTER was approsched by GLIKSBERG with & request

to arrange a viait in Germany for General TORRIOS. Accordiag to

GLIKSBERG, TORRLOS had been invited by the Freach Government

to vialt France on his setura from larael.

''In Ambassador KOSTER'a

words, this lo the same chantage we experienced with GLIKSBERG

last year on bebalf of Aroullo ARIAS. The implication here lo that

GLIKSBERG sOw as advisor to TORRICS ls playlag Erance and

Germany againot one another to obtaia the beat deal for TORRIOS."

(Headguarters Comment: KOSTER la referring to the offers of IV

systems from tbeso other connirles to Panama.)

SECRET

CIA INTEREL SUE ONLT

dewapter an ard

declasstlerina

---

