# 104-10187-10011

## Page 1

104-10187-10011

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Dirisis

CLASCEICATABE

SECRET

PROCESSING

BALT BUN

MARAID POR PADEMIRE

NO IADC KIME REQUIRED

HEADQUARIERS DESA

CAN SUDGE INDEXING

AASTRACT

INTO

FERNA

Chief of station. Nexico Cli

* LIMPTY ProsTess sepurt for fourth quarter 1962

A THIN REQUIRED - REFEREIATE

Aotion Required: For jour Information.

Reference:

1N91d-20002

1. Sastriad

The MIDiPTY ProJect Is designed to collect operational information

on the LIMIT installation and personnel, as well as selected targots of

opportunity santia: the use di stationary and mobilo photograptilo coverage.

ste proleet provides means for invesilgating loads provided by

the above nored assass and supporting othes Station operations through rentina

providing and servicing PO box drops, conducting countersurvell-

lances, and oiler related tasks.

LiPt surides the enjority of plotos used by the Station in'its

CE exploitso. asiast the LATRICK target.

In this phase of the operation

the LIMPTY bascheuses and pletotruck prainced approximately 122 rolls of oper

ational pho:us ier the Station's CS program.

Selective examples of the

operational use si these photos and

the support given to other station

operations ly kner assets are as tollons..

A, Isori photos proved that one Paul SKUP (aka Saul SKUP) did visis

Le LIVERICK installation. This case was of interest to Headquarters

b. A LIDiPTY photo mas utilized in Identifying one Adolphe Pierre

, POrsEs as a vision io the LINERICÄ establlshment on 17 August

LISIPTY also provided make and license plates of the dai

user ty POPHET at that time. This case is presently of Interest

CONTINUED

Distribution:

- Files

CANES RE TERNCE TO

it's

SECRET

150-6-7413

DATE TrIED

# February 63

5 February 63

DISPATCH SYRADOL AND NUMBER

1NB:A-20642

HENEGURNTERS TLE MULDER

50-6-7473

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ЗВСКЕР

INNA -20642

o.

"tiMPTy tnke provided photo evluence of the fnot thai Cuauntemoo

CARDENAS.

son of former Méstem President Lazaro CARDENAS del Rio,

visited

the LINSKICK Installaiion for a perlod of four and one-

half hours on zd December 1963.

d.

In addition, LINiPTy photos vere instrumental in identifying

all arriving LINERICK personnel, Including known and suspeatod

Intelligenoe offloers, plus documenting the dolly routtrio of all

personnel of the LINERICK installation.

®. LIMPTY/LIENTRAP has provided photos of inturedt to KUTUBE/D

of the IDERICK Installation and is presently working on similar

coverage of the DiLET Installation.

In the area of pretext investigations, Oliver G, SCANTLING perförmed

With excellence in a number of those.

Amone the more important

and revealing vere thosé conducted on Juan NAV?3 Rulz and AEMICUELET-

2 and 3 (this later in conjunction wich Headquartera Interest in

the case).

In support to other Station operations, Oliver 0. SCANTLINO has

aoting as alternate contnot of LIEMIT-l in a senaitive LAURICLE.

The LIMPTY outouts (SCANILING and CHRENDE) also service

a number of P.O. Box drops used in Station opprations Inoluding

to cynost activities and the

operation.

SCANTLING provided the cover correspondence for an Sw mail channol

with EMLITEA-1 while the latter was on asolenment to Santo Domingo.

3. Security

During the reporting period there have been no known adverse seourity

ineldents affeoting the LINPTY operalion.

under the project (SCANTLING and GEHENDE) and the KUBARk Cane Officer, Jeremy I.

Narcos, are made in a clandestine manner and meting places and timos

changed frequently.

in a similar manner.

In order to provide maximum compartmentation between the various baso- i

houses, Oliver O. SCANTLING was inserted an the outout to the LIMITED basehouse

and 1ts basehouse kcepers (LIMPIY-6 and LIEMPTY -8) In Dolober 1962.

He replaced

Raymond H. GRENDE In this task.: GERENDE continues no cutout for the LIENtiAP

LICALIA, and LILYRIC phase of LIENPTY.

In addilion, this move makes for bettor:

rapport between the cutout and LIMPIY-6, (since LIiMPPY-6 and SCANTLING are

close in age) and gives GERENDE timo to provide more prompt processing of the

raw photo take.

(In regard to this development, it should be noted that

i das nou recularly proude fintsed prolet within ¿ hours - sooner

4. Equipment

No new equipment was purohased during the reporting period nor 1g any

such purchase presently contemplated.

Such rapair to photo equipment as is

neceasary can be done locally without scourity Implications.

5. Personnel

No personnel changes were experienced durtue the reporting perloc

other than that noted In paragraph 3 above.

Stilland Susly

liard C. CURTI

ices

113e reto: 9109.0-

SECRET

sc - 1 24/5

PALENO

2

---

