# 104-10186-10260

## Page 1

104-10186-10260

LAME MIRCHNIKA AHONFRERORIS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS CI-316: 00714-64

8 September 1864

SUBECT Esther GAVILAN Rosales

'DATE DISTA

1964

RETURN TO CIA

NO. PAGES 1

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

Washington, D. C.

September 1964

Background Use

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES

CSCI-3/782, 061

29 June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINGS

ALL DIDINITIIR APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS VENTARVI

SOURCE:A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service

until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The foilowing report is one of a series containing personality information

provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the

records of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressces take no action on any of the individuals

mertioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Esther GAVILAN Rosales Is the wife of Rogello RODRIGUEZ

Lovez, the Subject of the above referenced report. '

Headquarters Comment

1.

travel manifests reveal that Esthr GAVILAN Rosales arrived

In Mexico Cily from Cuba on 15 December 1961 and carried a diplomatic

passpurt; departed Mexico City for Cuba on 27 April 1962, carrying

Cuban diplomatic passport number D/61-538; and arrived in Mexico

from Habana On 8 July 1963, carrying Cuban diplomatic passport

number D, 63/455.

STATE

DIA

I NAVY

REP CINCLANT

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

TAIn

#SA

CINCSO A

1 xa

T oca

TEBI 2

Inoser field distribution indicated dy'$**.y

JESS

INFORMATION RERORTS INFORMATIONTREPORT

WH. SA FOB!

d'E SR11

CT LIA TE

WVH SA MQBI

VE MADER 1 CIR&NEE

NU SAR

NI SA CLA

VIL VAVE:

PID, ATT

LX-165+=0-1716

No Projeci (ANANG- I)

CSCI-31q p7:4-61

ema

POTALA

inhabitke

WHY SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

!C

: A

FORM NO

OBSOLETE PRIVIOUS EDITIONS

201-≤32665

rag

4IBR

---

