# 104-10169-10215

## Page 1

104-10169-10215

SECKET

=5x-46.17

& October 1964

MIMORANDUM TOR: Chief, CI Liaison

1 BR/C8/R

1 Questinas Concerning Difectore

Jeep: J. DUTKANICZ (201-289236) and

Vintimir O, SLOBODA (201-287327)

1. DUTKANICZ'O Army nosigament at lime al defection.

URARIUR Case Summary 2-62-8 (copy altached) confirms

DUTKANICZ's asigament to the Jand Signel Battalion is Darmed.

Homever, bin wife Indicated that he had CIC connectione, In an interview

At the American Imbansy Voscow on 1 December 1961 (cited la DBA-280,

8l Innuary 1962), the indicated that their trip behind the Iron Cartin 'bad

been made poseible becaune her husband wurked for the CiC and was allowed

to do thingo the ardinary "Ol' could net do." There are ain paciled no-

int ero la the 201 Me suggesting that hio Army aesignment may bave iscluded

Antelligeace functons al nome lind.

B. Previous KOS consaction of both defectors.

POr USARIUR Case Bummary 8-68-8, DUTKANICI MmIelL

tall American Imbanny officialo in Lioscow Chat he had been approsched by

KOD »oprocontatives In a bar near Darmetade in 1958 and had accepted

resrutment an a renult of their threate and Inducemento, He claimed to

Amvo given them minimum cooperation from then until hie defection, alchough

Mo Army coneldored le probable that he had done more than bu samicio. A

Aurthos Indiention el hin KCS Involvement bafore defection de the ince that the

peeind decres granting him Bortet oilinennhip was enacted three monthe before

No arrivet de to UsSR, see Emb sal 651.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CE GOFY FILA 14. 200 -5-41

COpy

SECRET

201-289236

---

## Page 2

07

22 BLOBODA 'a prior KOS Involvement uns confirmed by DEVIsION,

no reported in [YT} 1192.. See altached memorahdum of 28 March 1962 in

rogard to pansago of this information to the Army, Turther indieations are

the faete that SLOBODA "IS & KGB renettlement case and that ho Inter told

on American Embaany Moscow official that he had been black-malled and

framed into gring to the USSR. See Moscow Emb tele A-572, 21 October 1962.

mnd 151, 29 March 1968.

D. Arusy security lavestigatons no immediato cauno al delection.

Per USARIUR Cane Summary 7-68-2, DUTKANICE told Amerten.

It mInosy Moscon officials that he had informed his KGB handler that be wan

ander investigadion for security resson?. He defected soon after, im accord

mith a KQD muggendon that he do no.

"LOSOLA's defaction was precipitated by increnaed Army

pecurily monauter, according to BEVISION.

02

Lee H, Wigren

Distribution:

Orig. & 2 - Addronsoo

1 = SR/CI/R

BR/CI/R

il 2 October 1964

SECRET

4/BR

---

