# 104-10172-10031

## Page 1

104-10172-10031

23

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ANG 344

ROUTING

5

INDER.

* REA TO FILE NO

22

FROM. JMVAVE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FRE NO. CAREY TO DEATEN O

DESiROr O SIO-

ACTION

INFO

WH/C 8

(X RID COPY

DCI, D/DCI

VR.

FLE.

COP, SODA, CAO 4, CI, CI/PS, IW, RE/AN, WPS 2, WH 78

CA 2.

CAPEG, CA/PROP, C/OPS, Q/IC 2.

FI/D .

fINT

AD/CI SURETED AD CONNOR CURRES

SECRET 09922

DIR INFO LANT A2822 GRE

JUN 65 "2056z

IN 86718

BARRE JCITE WAVE P822

INTEL TYPIC

81-7

SUPDATA:

"AUSTIN G. DETLOFF (P) FROM ANCLEVÉ-15 ON 8 JUNE 65.

WHO CBTAINED INFO FRON RAMON ESCARDA RUSIO AND. FRANCISCO

TAMAYO, BOTH OF WHOM SPOKE WITH ATON CONSTANZO PALAU.

PLS NOTE

RELIABILITY ACDITION A-15 DESCRIPTION.

RID INDEX. FILED 0919512/

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNIRY: CUBA/DOMINICAN REPUSLIC

SUBJ: | RECRUITMENT OF CUBAN EXILES IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, TO ASSIST

GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERTO BARRERAS, HEAD OF THE LOYALIST FORCES IN

MICROFILMED

JUIT L 3 190S

DOC. MICRO. DER

THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC DOI: 7 JUNE 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (8 JUNE 1965) UFG-TR5A

SOURCE: A CUBAN REFUGEE WHO HAS MANY CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILE

IW COMMENT:

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OF THIS CABLS HAS SEEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGINCY PENDING

RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED.

SECRET

EN 41

WHAT S

ABSTINIET

ROUTINE

BASED ONI

LIAISON:

1 08 699881

ENCRUDES PROM

AUTONAI

DOW NORASINO AND

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

23

[22.

=9-28

unb5

I PRIORITY

Copy No

6/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

sons if

INDEX ONES ONO

CLASSIPY TO PIE NO

* REF TO FRE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUING

Is t

sincerero

FROM

FILE RID O

PET TO BRANÇN O

DESTROY D

JIG

17

ACTION

INFO

JUN IT SELPIA GOPY

VR, FILE, ADOP, CA Z, CAPEG, CA/PROP, C/OPS, CI/IC 2, Fl F/D . F'INT

PAGE 2 IN 86718

ACTIVISTS PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM THE REFUGEE HAS PROVED TO BE FAIRLY

RELIABLE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM TVO CUBAN EXILES NO.

BROKE WITH ATON CONSTANZO PALAU.

NY COMMENT.

TOCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRICKUTY

RELEASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED

LAISON

SECRET

EICLUDES FROM AUTOMATI

BOTNGRADINA AND

SICLARBIFICATON

REPRODUCION.BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS ...OHIBITED.

Copy No

---

