# 104-10228-10049

## Page 1

104-10228-10049

$UM 115,1

DISPATCH

Chlef of Station, JAWAVI:

......E9

289, ят::. 9900-45

Chief, Heatern Romlaphoro

OPERATIONAL/TINIC/AMDUD

Reconnundations for Terminntion of Certain Loveudoncy layrcnts

ACTION REGUIRED: 800 purskraph 3

REFERENCE

: UFGA-25261, dated 3 Juno 1066

CROSS PETERENCE 70

It is recommondod that JWAVE arrango to notify

specific AMBUD dopendents that certain payments will bo

terminated an o? I Janunry 1967. The cases, and the

reasons for such terminstions, are listed below by case

number corresponding to Roference Attachment #1.

Саво # 3

Terminate poyments to 2nd and ird dependents

daushtors o! Benito BLANCO Crus. Both daughtors

aro ovor 21 years or ago.

CaRo # 1

Toralnate Ind and 3rd depondonts, marriod brothers

of Manuel ELANCO Nnvarro and substituto the fathor,

Hanuel BLARCO Canisa, as 2nd dependent.

CARB A 6

Terminate paysent to 2nd dependent of Daniel

FERNANDEZ. Mon and pay only $175

to nothor, Lucia

MON Fuertes.

Caso # 16

Terminate paymenta to 2nd and ird dependents,

of Benjanin QUINTANA Perera, who are

apparently not recoivins any financinl assistance

and my actually ho doceased.

Although there is

Bone question regarding the legal status of lst

dependent, deceased claimed hor as

his wife and

pajment should continuo until further notice.

19-134-25

DISEACH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

--sontindod..dr

DATE

UFCH 6206

CLAICIGICATICR

SECRET

679J 1 MOS

ee.....

8 DEC 1955

C BUMBER

19-124-25/2

OHIGINATING

30 Nov 66

Distribution:

WH/COG/ESEC

1

1

WH/COG/MO

• C/WII/COG

00 FICT

WH/COG

Nancyc

Gritz.

HaAs

TexT

2578

COOHDINATING

DEFICE SYMBOL

GAit

L PAISINGS RAME

C/WH/COG

WH/ COG/ NO

30

Robert Ortman 2Von estr.

INDET

n.l1

ABSTRACT

100m. 53

USA PREHOUS NOITON

RAPe. 8 00

SEE ICE SPMBOL

C/WHD

DAlE

180:

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

UFCR-0.06

(580 * 20

Torminate pryment to let dependent, eidow of

raul trail Alains,

evidence of tidor'g romariage to

justily

termination.

Also torulnato Sth dependent, who

apparently

do nothor of the widor

and her

not the nother oi

slator,

tho docensed,

aid is not

ontitled to aupport nonoy.

Children will continue

to receive support.

Widow receives more monoy

than is customry for a widow since her husband

mis a pilot.

In

certain cases of this typo,

payments

vere esthullshod by Aalth, not by worACT.

Сазо # 31

father of

arch a father in elve at go van

Jose CARRAZANA Trinino, unlesa

support money.

Саве # 50

erminato payments to 2nd and 3rd dorondents.

of Meinaldo VIDAL Mazola

unable to provido proof that paronts aro receiving

support, ANTIKI bas also been requestad to

investigato this case.

Case # 52

Terminate payment to lat depondont, ridow of

Clemento CRUZ do la torre, who advised of re-

marriage in 1964. Children will continue to

receive support.

Case # 53

arminate varments to Igt and 2nd dependente, wido

and child of Marcolo NAPOLE3 Viquiera.

Ith dependen

19 November 1959.

essmann and probably a US citizen, apparently was

separated from hushand before his doath.

is no indication that Trustee has sent any money

to widow.

CaSe # 59

Perminato payment to 2nd dependent, oldest daughter

of Vicente LEON Leon, who was

26 October 1945

and. le now over 21 years of age.

Case # 61

Terminate payuent to ith dependent, youngest

Jaughter of Marcelo CARMENATE Cobrian,

now married and not entitled to suppor who de

Case # 63.

erminate payment to 4th dependent, father of

MArIO GALVEL

Lopez, cho apparently

receivos ne

support money.

:

continued...

530.

USE PREVIOUS ECITIOPL

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

De SONTINURO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTIMUATION OF

DISPAICH

SICKET.

rod did

tsip-020v

CASe # 65

Terminnto

paymonto to Truston alure aidow, logal

chald and paronte of Antonto JANoR Cardenas,

not socolvin: onedro amunt to alch they aro

untitled if Trustoo da sondior $100 to too

mintressed.

I8, and whion,

sidow doos cone to

the USA, cano can de revloure for possible

renowal

of diroet pnymonts to widos and arraneo

ment

mado to pay support

to illeritimate daughter.

Prosend locitinate dopendents will be projectod

for the actuary study so

that funds will be

avnilablo 11 conjulrod at a future dato.

CAgO 7. 75

Terminato paymant to 2nd dopendent,

Iather of

Pedro NORDA Roque,

Mother of deceasod

is now

in the USA and

rocorde indicato sho

1s aoparatod

from tho inthor who reminod in Cuba.

Саво # 78

Terminate paymont to 2nd depondent, daughter of

CarIon GUAY Decall, who 1a not only married but 10

ovor 21 yours of ayo.

Case # 81

Torminate paymont. to docongod and dopondent,

fathor of Dovaldo bIAs Milian.

Caso # 83

Torminate paymonts to 2nd and 3rd dependents,

children of Podro CUELLAR Alonso, who reside

Cuba.

it nny,

contret with hor topsons

to thelr support on a regular basts.

Case # 87

Torminate payment to 2nd depondont who is the mother

not nothor of

of luow of Carlos SOLIS Sholton, To widow clalmed

docensed.

On the questionnairo,

hor not her an dopondent.

According to AMTIKI,

decoased's

mother 1s Rosa SHFLTON who has rosidod

in the USA for some

timo and apparently has never

rocolved any nonsy.

Case # 89

Torminnte paymente to 2nd and 3rd dopondents, prrents

of Roberto PERt, Cruzata, and 4th dependent,

child

of first dependent and her former husband larry

Pribably all dependents should be terminated

but there are contlicting statements concerning the

legal status of the "widow".

Doccasod claimed her

as his wife in 1061.

ANTIKI's 11le on this case

contains a letter from a Miami lawyer requesting

Information on

thes

"widow"' and advised ho had boen

retnined by Harry FRITZ to protect his intorest and

that of their daughter, Cathleen FRitz, in view of

the surposed marriage of his ex-wilo and koberto

continued..

•*= 530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

LLASSIFICATIEN

DECRPT

I DARENA

!. E CONTINUED

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

til: 306,

PEREZ CruPata.

If the lawyer tho represents

Find could on mcereally queriod,

atatua of tle reladdonally botaron tho "eidow"

und benEd might be catablachod and load to n

if dasavi concuss,

inatructed to pursue tils

Caso # 12

Terminate paynont lo coconsod 20d dependent,

nothor of Herman KOCHl.

Ca3о € 91

Terminate prymont in 2nd depondent,

JOSO FERNANDEL RoVirosa, who apparontl; roceives

no support from mothor of doccusod.

Stanley JERSAWIT

can supply some background on dependents in this

caso who aro both

from wealthy familios.

САво # 122

Amount and

nethod of paymontn to dopendents in

this case

dirorted by lleadquarters and handled

by Humphrey O. TIMANUS.

Accordink to the question-

naire filled out by lat dupondent, Inther

of Manuel

REYES Garcia, father la not followiny Instructlong

to provide for the wile and child in Cuba,

as. woll

no provide cortain conforts for his inprisoned son.

It is recommended that this case bo roverod with

TIMANUS And ANTIKI ronume trustoonhip of t'unds

for the widow and child and prisoner.

The fathor

and atopnother should thon be paid $25 apieco, ag

3rd and 4th dopendonts.

The remaining $225 por

dogositod in the existing trust

account at the Coconut Grovo Bank.

Cn80 # 332

Terminato paymont to 2nd dependent, son of Joso

BORRAS Gutterrez.

son, Alfrodo BURRAS ancins

was borD 19 April 1943

and is over 21 yours of ngo.

2.

Although the money saved by the above terninations

is small in comparison to the total anount expended each month,

It 18 a beginning which hopefully will lend to nore terminations

In the near future.

All trusteoships aro presently bein

ovlowod and JaNAVE will /adidsod as rapidly as possible con

corning trusteeships to be terminated completoly or adjusted.

Iwo trusteeships that require special study concern cases

# 142 and # l4d as follows:

CaSo # 142

as dependents.

unclo may be Alfredo ORNELO, a forder prominent®

Cuban businessman now in the US, for whom GUTIERREZ

formerly worked in Cuba.

GUTIERREZ also has .

continued.....

3.C: 53g

142s

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CLASSITICATION

SCRET

ГРАсЕна

*I CONTINUEO

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONDINUATION OF

DISPAÏCH

1s in Anordcan cltdron roadding 1n

inde benther, in chaineer alo

enamell ln spare desoned, recently queried NASA

concorning the posalbllily of obtaintor assistance

tootlect the release ot

uts brothor fron prison.

CoRe # 144

Andros VEGA feroz ortutnally dostenlon his wie

ano child as dependents and named another alster

as Trustec.

Information obtained from

AMTIKI

and various

ir:cords

evallable,

Indicate that VEGA

learnod that his wife was a GOC follower and directed

that tho prosent Trustro, another sister,

control of the moncy.

This could necount for

discropancy betweon

anount of money nos hold

In trust and

the total amount of money paid from

1961-1965 sinco the new

trustooship was not created

until much of the money

had been spent. In order to

protoct the intorests of the prisoner,

some procodure

will probably be dovised by which a long-range

projection can bo mado for actuary purposos and the

trustcoship torminated.

Recommendatlong for handling

this case will bo subaltted to JNWAVE In the near

3.

In order to arrive at the exact amount of nonoy to

be savod by tho immedinte and future

termination of payments

to cortain dependents, a dofinite criteria nust be ostablished

concernink adjustments

for socondary dopondonts when the

Irat depondent has been

terminated.

In discussions botweon

Pllen F. MARGANY, during her rocent TDY to JMWVE, and

Hunghroy O. TIMANUS, It was MARGANY's understanding that the

procodure ta to raiso the socond dependent to the status

of tirat depondent

when the original first depondent 1s

terminatod for causo.

for oxample,

the first child would

recoive the amount originally paid

to the mothes, instead

of the customary $50 pald to a second dopendont, and the third

dependent would then become the second dopendont and recoivo

$50 Instead of tho original $25.

This procoduro was not

1ollo3cd in caso # 14

where the second dependent payment

remainod nt $50 after the remarriage of tho mother, Case

# 25 where child, now sole dependent, does not receive full

Ist dependent payment, nor in the contentious CUERVO-RUBIO

54) where an attempt to hold the second dependent

to $50 precipitated considerable unplennntness.

llowevor,

ID caco # 86,

the procedure of raising the payment level

of the second and third dopendents aftor the remrriago of

the mother, was followed.

Logically,

the termination of

paymenta to dopendents in any of the

top categorios would

automatically lead to an adjustment in status and payment

to not only children, but in sone cases parents ns well,

depending on their position of inheritance.

A clarification

of station's past proceduro, any

known committmonts to

dependonts, and present views as to firm critoria to be

followed in such cases is urgently requested.

Not only 18

such a fixed criteria. nocessary to determine the amount of

savings involved in the recommended immediate termination,

and to provide accurate long-range figures for the actuary

study, but also for the purjose

of avoiding any possiblo

repercussions such as oucurred in the CUERVO-RUBIO case.

Request Station cable reply.

continued...

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

"aGs

CLASSIPICATION

SECRET

TrAGE NA

-X:

COnTINUED

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

UFGH-6306

A conference with the WUMUTUAL Committon will

bo held in the near future in order to obtaln kuldance

concerning the proposal for disbureing future Assub pay-

JuRAVE will be kept advisod of tho proxress of

this actlvity.

Ellen F. MARGANY

ErDest A. LUSBY

Distribution:

3 - COS/ JUWAVE

& DEL 1205

TEC 5 1 98111,80

CASSITICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

1190 121es/2

CATE NA

6

coNTINUED

---

