# 104-10185-10143

## Page 1

104-10185-10143

SUBECT

Miguel hOl

ON REPORT

HNPORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

"O TOREROR DISSE

DATE O

NO, PAI

• DRAGO LATE THE

CIC1-K16/00284-84

20 Jul: 1960

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

GA

DATE Of

1080 to 1964

INFO

PLACE &

RAE ACO: 1054156350-0.

FIELD REPOI

SOURCE

# forder Cuban iS officer who served sith the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

1.

2.

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a serles containing

personality Information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the recores oã.

this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality. reports

without first checking with this Agency..

ARS:

Miguel ROA is an officer in the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate

of Intelligence)

and has

been stationed in Mexico for probably moe than

one year.

In Mexico, for cover purposes, he holes the

position of Press Attache,

this cones under the kinistry

of Foreign Relations.

He

has visited Habana and then

there, visits the office building where the Liberacion

Nacional (LiN - National Liberation) section of the DGI

is located."

He as also visited kanuel PINEIRO at his

office apartment.

Prior to being assigned to the DGI and to the Ministr

of Foregn Relations,

ROA was a first lieutenant in

the National Police in 1959 to 1960-

-5

1

STATE

I OLA

REP CINCLAST

(Noto? Fiabd Entribution Indicated by "'')

FORMATION

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

I NAVY

AJa

NSA

CINCSO E I&NS

SAKX

I FBI 2

REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

IH/SA/LOB

WH:/SAP:9S

4L WE/S/R

WE MADR

0H/SA/R

WE/SA/CI

14

CI/LIA

CI/REA

RID/AN

1E

3 TE

L/MASA

WH/WAVE

TO TSA Y (1), DI 1

(2), CI 4, RID 1

PORE NO. 1

OBSOLITE FPETIOTS NDITIONS

LX-1594

NO

PROJECT

(AN:LO-1)

CSCI-316/00254

WH/1/

'EXI

20L tone 2:1-7314

64

a900s

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

3.

ROA was born abut 1935, is five feet sered laches tall, weighs 14.

pourds, has bushy blond hair, white sisht, a red face and a thin nose..

ROA 1s a friend of Manuel VEGA, pseudonya "MAROOS. " 1

'Headquarters. Comment

The-

do of thie Agency reveai no identiftable laformation ea

O FOREIGN DISSE

---

