# 104-10106-10683

## Page 1

104-10106-10683

SLUNLI

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/E/BC/C

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

3 Role el Vancouver, Cammile, In

Dionfermation re the Carrison

Investigation

-OCOW-6315, 22 Angest 1967.

subject: KEYWAY/Curren Iverilgation

of Kennody Anonnainalton: Doneld P.

NORTON, Ille 100-3U0-17.

l. Reterence forwarded a CI/R&A memorandan sbou.NORTON

to

Since that date F'BI reports have shown that

NORTON le a con man, and U.3. Alr Force Medleal recordo hatre sa-

vealed that he was discharged in July 1950 as a renile of paychlatric

problems, having tried on two or more oceasions to commit nuicide.

NORTON's llés about CIA first appeared la the Vancouver Sun on 5

August 196%.

2. The atiached FlI saport, DBB 17295, 10 Aprl 1969, concern»

another example of disinformation appearing in Vancouver, lavolving the

San, and related to the Gairison case. A check of Agency files showed

that we have no record ol Trevor LAUTENS, MIFiO GRACIAS, OF E

Mion Dorothy WHITTY. The reference of the unidentified caller to

GRACIAS may have been a garble for Manil GARCIA Gonsalet; whor

Garrioon has named as one of the assassins of Premident Kennedy but

who appeare to have disappeared or to be non-emtatent. There are no

Agency traces (Including IMWAVE) on GARCIA.

3. The Communist prese generally and Sovlet news medin specitleall

have gives Garrison's story enthualastic coverage and support, because

It Is obvlounly In their Interest to malatain that President Kennedy was

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

C

assassianted not by pro-Communint Lae Harvey Orwald but riller ae

• resull of s right mog coaspliacy Involving CIA.

4.. The murtetes of twe neh allegition in or through the Vancayver

Sue mena to place a trale on colneidence.. Do you have y inforction

about the une of the Sen in other earfaclage ol MOTORDIR propaganda

"guinn! CIA? In there any information shout contrete between employeas ol

the Sun and representatives el Sortel Intellence? I no mel informalion

le at hand, it would be appreciatol l there questien, were forumsled t

kho Stallen. Although Headgutter: has no recerd el Troves LAUTENs.

ll do concolvable that Station Alas may alno hold Information about has.

Donova I. Pritt

DC/CL/RAA

Attachmente

Distribation

Orig A lo adressee

1º A/DCI (MI. GoodWIn)

1 • Generl Cornel

1 - Office of Security (Atta: MI. Paul Caynes)

1 - CI/R&A Chrono

1 = DP for fle (Now Vancouves (le)

1 - CI/REA (Miss Smith)

SCRET

---

