# 104-10186-10204

## Page 1

104-10186-10204

SINEORMATIONEREPORTE

INFORMATION RERORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Armando TORRES Mcsones

(allas

"El Frances")

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00515-65

8 February 1965

1

CSCI316/00718-64

9 September 1964

3

2

4/00

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE alashington, D.

.C.

DATE ACO.

January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRACINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCEA former Cuban IS officer who servou with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguartery Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing personality

information provided by

the source and includes supplementat

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Upon further questioning of source, he revealed that the full

name of Armando, subject of the above referenced report, is Armando

TORRES Mesones,

"El Frances."

He is the curriculum administra-

tive officer

Departmento Escuelas Especiales (Department of

Special Schools • EE), responsible for guerrilla warfare training,

in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence • DGI). Operations officers from the Departamento

de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Deprtment -IN) of the

DGI send TORRES a statement as to what an individul agent, or

groups of agents,

1s expected to do upon returning to his native

country and TORRES arranges a training schedule whieh will prepare

each individual for his assignment; he decides how many hours of

instruction each trainee will have and in what subjects.

In addition,

he arranges the schedules of the instructors in the various schools

and handles the overall administration for them.

TORRES does not

teach courses himself although he ranks as the

chief instructor.

works particularly close with the Venezuelan desk officers and has

relatively less to do with other LN Department operations officers l

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information forwarded with the above referenced

report,

this Agency has no adcitional identifiable information

on TORRES.

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

I ale

NSA

STATE

1 01A

I ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

(Noto- find distribution indicated by "")

I MAVY

CINCSO *

FBI 2

INFORMA

PORT

INFORMATION REPORT

2.18

1. 13514

IN - 2313

YO PROJECT (ASNUG/ 1

_CSCI-216/005-15-65

Mi ShiCh

RIDLAN

/COORDIMATINO

AH/ SA

8

(1), WF. 1 (2), CIA, AID 1

LIAISON

301-094600

BLS: 1

CI/R

: SAk

---

