# 104-10186-10306

## Page 1

104-10186-10306

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY : Cuba

SUBJECT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

Saul GONZALEZ (pseudonym "DENIS"') DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

-CS CI-9/781,855

16 June 1964

RETURN TO CIA

DATE OF

1969 and 1964

Background Use Only

INFO.

Do No: Roproduce

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ.

Max 1961

FIELD REPORT NO. *

THIS iS UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION,. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISÁL OP CONTENT IS PENTATTiZ

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Irtelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following report is one of a series

containing personality information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym "'DENIS"', is an officer in the Illegal

Department of the Direccion General de Intelicencia (DGI - General

Directorate of Intelligence). In March 1964 he made a trip to

France and Rome and while in Rome met Roberto Antonio MORO

Perez. At MORO's request GONZALEZ carried a gift back to MORO'S

girl friend in Habana. GONZALEZ returned to Habana in late March

or early April 1964.

In December 1963 GONZALEZ was in Habana, but

1t is believed that he had made a previous trip to Europe.

20

GONZALEZ, who was born in approximately 1936, Is six feet fall,

180 pounds, has a dark complexion, black hair, and wears tinted

sun glasses.

He resides at 1420 15th Street, Apartment 3, Vedado,

Habana, where his telephore number is 3-3375.

= ..

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency revea! no pertinent identiflable

information.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TOIA

ARALY

REP CACLUT

(Norer Flotd dietritation todierend ky "=')

I NATT

CINCSO *

INFORATEN REPORT

H'SA/FOE ITE 5 A IL CHELE

THE

WH/SA/CI

WH/WAVE

TOTALE

RID/AT

HULOSAIT MEIND CARMI

IN'S

1 ocR

TFBI 2

RẠ0307

LX-1453

NO PROJECT

(AMMICG

CSCI-3•751,855

16141800

2/8R

---

