# 104-10250-10081

## Page 1

104-10250-10081|

Januar 22, 1965.

Subiect:

Contact with Mr. Kinsey after his Separation from CIA.

As my former supervisor for 6 jears in the Agency, Mr. K. apparently

wanted to keep up a superficial social contact with me. Every 3 or 4 months, he

called me at home or in the office; as a rule, first to inform me of sone article or

TV progran which could be of interest to he or my husband, and second, to inforn

me of his various professional prospects. As far as I recall, there were two

three neetings for lunch in the cafeteria across the road fron the West Out Building

and one dinner invitation in our hore. The first lunch meeting may have been in

spring 1963. According to my recollection, Mr. K. lave me the reproduction of a

small inglish handwriting specimen which was supposedly written by the Grand

Duchess "Anastasia" of Russia, Mr. K. asked me to send a short report to Cleve

Baxter, New Tork City, who was working on the case that a woman Eugenia Smith

clained to be "Anastasia". I sent a report that the questioned docunent was pro-

bably written by an English speaking person, to Cleve Baxter. (I had met Cleve

Baxter previously at an Academy for the Advancement/Science meeting in New York.

Ir. K. had claimed that C.B. is his friend and forner business associate and that

he had worked for CIA.). To my knowledge, this was the only connection of Mr. K.

with av work for the "Anastasia" case. -

In sunner 1963, we got suddenly & telephone call from Mr. K. informing us

that he had gotten nerried and had returned fror his honeymoon trip to San Frar-

cisco for which he had used up his retirement money. In fugust or September 1963,

we invitan him and his wife Lois (whom he wanted us to net, for dinner in our

house. Lois was

a good-looking, very lively wonan, around forty, who made so nuch

sull talk that, to our amazenent, Mir. K. hardly said a word. My husband and I,

both had the inpression that

the marriage would not last long. - In April 1964,

---

## Page 2

-2 -

Ir. K. called me up again, because he had to tell me sorething. We met for lunch

in the cafeteria, and he told me most confidentially that Lois had left him and

lived in an apartrent downtown. They simply had not been able to get along. That

was the last time I saw Mr. K.--

Since that time, there cannot have been nore than 2 or 3 telephone calls.

He never inforned me about his job with the Goldwater campaign; this, I heard

through the grapevine in the Agency. - The last time, I heard fron Mr. k. was a

telephone call in the Agency shortly before Christras. He asked for ny address

• (which is in the telephone book), apparently in order to serd us a Christmas card.

Thon he told me sone details about ir. Goidwater's handwriting, as if he had inferned.

me about his previous assignnent.. And when I asked him about his professional pro-

spects, he stated that there are new devalopients in lew York regarding the

"Anastasia" case and that he is going to have a hand in this. is I did rot ask any

further questions, this was the end of the conversation. - The next thing I saw,

was the "Daily News article..

Subiect: My Work for the "Anastasia" Case.

In September 1963, I received various late night telephone calls from Cleve

Baxter in New Jork City, explaining details of the case involving Eugenia Smith

who claims to he "Anastasia". C.B. asked re to look over the handwriting raterial

he has and sake any couments zalated to it which could give some psychological clues.

- As I left the following weekend for Fuerto Rico, C.B. sent the handwriting nater-

ial (fron 1912 to 1963) to the hotel there, astong for an early reply. - I sent a

report regarding psychologica. aspects in the develomment of the handwriting, more

or less is a basis for the work which would have to be done by a questioned document

examiner. After that, I did not hear much anymore, excapt that the publisher

Speller and Co. (for whom C.B. was working) sentine a copy of the book "Anastasia",

---

## Page 3

- 3-

I never made a handwriting analysis of the case, and the bill for the work I had

done was never paid. To my knowledge, in this phase of my work, there was not

any connection with Mr. Ke, and he was not ever

mentioned in my conversations with

Cleve Baxter. -

Iwo weeks ago, Mr. Baxter sent me (without comnent) the reprint of a New

Hampshire neuspaper, in which the appearance of the former "Czar", a former CIA

agent, A Polish #8XXX3X Col. G., was mentioned.. I narked this passage and brought

it to the office, where John Gittinger forwarded it innediately to Paul Gaynor,

fron where it was returned a few days later. -

Subiect=

The Former CIA Agent, the Polish Col. G.

In my contacts with Mr. K. and with Cleve Baxter, this man was never mentioned

and I did not know of his existenes; until I read the article in the New Hampshire

newspaper. It goes without saying that I never rade a graphological analysis of his

handwriting, as-per their request.

It is possible that I did work for the Agency on this man's handwriting under

some cover number or crypt, but up to now,

we have not yet been able to identify it.

---

