# 104-10161-10284

## Page 1

104-10161-10284

UNCLASSIFIED

-iNTERNAL

SE ONLY

COL DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/ WH/SA/CI

GH-43

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

bwilding)

r. WH/Sifurity

Diresturer beearity

2.

3.

DATE

EXTENSION

6471

OFFICER'S

INMALS

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

23 June 1964

COMMENTS (Number soch comment to show from whom

is whom. Drom o line across column after eoch comment.)

ATTENTION: Alien Affairs

Staff

C/AAS/05

Amended Memo

per telecon

32 gusebt.

03

haling thi can

10.

18.

12.

13.

14.

13.

FORM

9-02

610 use provous

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

.=

WH/SA 64-532

23 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR : Director of Security

ATTENTION

: Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT

: AMMUG-1

1. There is no question in my mind that AMMUG-1 is

a bona fide defector or that he has furnished us with

accurate and valuable information concerning Cuban intel-

ligence operations, staffers, and agents.

2. The information furnished by AMMUG-1 has been

established as accurate through our examination of FID

material, results of travel controls and reports from

independent sources. His information has given us the

potential and opportunity to take effective measures to

safeguard United States Government interests.

3. AMMUG-1 has stated that he never was and is not

now a member of the Communist Party. His polygraph

results indicate that he has been truthful in discussing his

personal history and in providing information.

4. I should like to have, as soon as possible, an Immigra.

tion and Naturalization identity document form I-94 plus an I-512

form which will permit him to travel to other areas and to

return to the United States. It is possible that it will be neces-

sary for him to travel on short notice in effecting recruitment o1

defections of key Cuban intelligence staffers and agents. I

ardly can over-emphasize the urgency in this case as dela

in expeditious travel may result in our losing operational

opportunities of great value to the United States Government.

ты х

Swenson

Chief, WH/SA/CI

SECRET

---

