# 104-10192-10118

## Page 1

104-10192-10118

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT COVER SHEET

CUNTLOBNTTAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DATE OP

REFORT

PERONT NO.

UFG 5793

'JAWAVE

HERONTINO OFFICIA.

Honry J. SLOMAN

_3 Soptember 1964

9o. 1o

PROJ.

APPROVINO OFPICEA

Andrew K, murmu

BACHUROUNO DATA AND COMMIATE!

Per ca

Source:

Marco

AMOT-2 1n report DD-975, dated 23 June 1964, from

RODRIGUEZ Menendez®

RID: No index.

Group 1:

Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Doclassification

OPTIONAL: BATRIES BELOW NEED

MOT BE MILLIO IN IF OUFLICATRO IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT.

DISTRIBUTION

" INTRA-NORACY

EATHA-AGINCY

ont

1

Hqs.

00/C

JMBARR

2

- SANTO DOMINGO- TO C. T/CICA

Miami Reps:

1

- State

1 - FBI

COUNTRY..

MO. OF ENCLOBURES

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

NO. PAGES

in trad

N

PADA

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DOI

8 - 40

:467

wAt

83181607.

4*008

P-30c-10

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADINÚ DI

SOURCE A Cumpinie'r

• Lug'ig ie

afte

La source ol sauda sone dope a dear companio

4991 994

APPRAISAL OF COMINI. 1 Contimes or over niecenion and relablo souces. 2. Probati, Muo 1 Possibir lone, l Coutalid 3: Prosatir

6 Cannot Do redgod.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba/Dominican Republic

SUBJECT

Shipment of Communications Equip.

ment to the Dominican Eopublic

by the MDC

REPORS NO

DATE OF REFORT

3 September 1964

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO

Mid-June 1064

PLACE &

United States, M1am1

DATE ACQ (30. Juna 1964)

VEG-5783

ALLAITO ASCARADDS SOURCE COAD DOS ARE DIE.%.T.V.

diria see dE COSTEiS iS ??Ü?AT..P.

SOURCE!

A momber of a group of Cuban enigres trained in the techniques

of information collection.

The group has provided useful reporte

for about three years.: This information was obtained fron larcon

Bodriguer "enendez, a member of the NDC.

The Moviniento Democrata Cristiano (HDC, Christian Denocritte

Movement) mg scheduled to uhip one 200 wtt transmitter to 1te

base in the Dominican Bepublic during the woek of 21 - 27 June

The trateuitter vould operato in the 20-90-80 motor band.

on stagle side band voice and/or continuous ate.

On 20 June 1964 an identical transmitter was installed at an

unfdentifled bone in kianl, which ws to serve as a communicationa

center for all luture tranninsions with the liDc's bage in the

Dominican Republic as woll as with all of the group's boats.

vega cullen, & radio operator for the Mic, lustalled the equip.

went and antenne.

CONPIDENT IAI

CONTROLLED DISSEN

ES COPY

Cadcut t

fx-b-99e trom paulsona

Gre Mise no 4d

DISTRIBUTION

20 2 10 10 6,0

1:5 1112

---

