# 104-10186-10193

## Page 1

104-10186-10193

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

* 880 60415111908099955 toonaldon el mild in any ournes ln 1a unautarried parano so pratabitad by la

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRICuba

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

SUNECT TeadY TRUTIE MANIII& RETURN TO CIA

"Teobaldo"

"Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NO. PAGES

• REFERENCES

CSCI 216/00624-65

10 February 1965

2

CS-211/00115-64

(page 11)

8 July 19649

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &. Washington,

D.C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serics containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from

the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

first checking with

this Agency.

Source identified a photograph of Teudys THUTIE Matilla

as being that.of the person known

to him as "Teobaldo" (true fall name

abinout tamore?) and the same individual who was chief, also an

instructor, of the Seccion Tecnica (Tochnical Training Section

MI Department (Department of Technical Operational

Support) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). His offices are located

2.

Source described "Teobaldo" as being a Cuban citizen born

about 1940.

He is about five feet seven inches tall, weighs

approximately 135 pounds,

and has a slim build. He has a white

complexion,

light brown hair,

small,

straight nose,

slim face,

and is clean shaven.

"Tenbaldo" walks with a slight limp in his

left leg and speaks with a nasal twang. 1,2

Headquarters Comments

1.

5

3

2

4/08

STATE

T DIA

REP

I ARMY

INADY

CINCLANT CINCSO#

(More. Field disribaron indeered by '#".)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1 AIR

TNSA

I&NS

1MKX

TOCR

от 5506 44 0т0.

IFBI 2

EINFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

HE/S/R.

1X 1838; LX 2349

. WE/

I CITRIA

ALL SAIR--11

AL-SACI.

Lil

OrAl/SA& (1), WE 1 (2), C1 4, RID

3 171

-11./BASH

NO

PROJECT (AMMUG) 1)

CSCI-316/00624-65

CORDINATINO SNO

1101809

LS: LD;531

12181

---

## Page 2

SECANT

-AO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316. 00/21-65

=2=

second licutonant in the Robel Army and a nonbor of the c'ls

source was a student in TRuTIE's intllagence

Iron carly Deenber 1962 to lato January 1063.

conducted in TRUTIE's apartment on the frelich

Go as the one of a Car vodad, "aban foet

2.

Teudys TRUTIE Mutilla was due to transit Mexico encoute to rew

on 15 January 1965 to become the new 2nd Secretary

of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations.

NO FOREfER DISSEN

.:.

7..-

---

