# 104-10211-10113

## Page 1

104-10211-10113

DISPATCH

Chef, HI sirlata

CLASSIICATNDRA

PASCISSING ACTION

BARKI: 600 INDES..

car QUALIO 0851

Tache

Chlor of Staton, Madoo City

ACTION REQUIPID. REFERENCES

Actlous Mona. For Hendquarters lenortion.

HaS : 1M4-22057 dated 8 Ortober 1965

Lo There tallon tha monthly oparational rport for project Inclivor

activities arlag October 1963.

2o Farent Man - Setaber 1951

There is anly one change ln targut Ines during October, 206E-69

ua alsoonectad an 30 Outobe to provida a tea 1i00 for une actInst a Intosal

tarerto The miter and Identity of this targot u1l1 ba prorided when the dow

cornation 1e masie.

There vis no change 1n the procesuins during this ruportion perial.

NO ABAOLINION SE LANOR DARESI

Daring this period Indivar provlded oparationi datn of Interust In

commotion vita the vialt to lodeo of Frualduat Ito of Iponlare

57-0153 reported a outnot by m Inglish ponting mn with the soule

aban in Macoo Olty Thla me Lorrniod to Hdarter for further dlenandi

1-6991 rupasted a Lens distance en11 from Harb FRONSE Dras le

1X1-6615 ruparted eatnet between Hew lak Time Writer, Ilerber

OUR and the Caten Inbany In Mexico. No Immotigativo notion man taken lo

the Mortoo otation

DHOSS REFERENCE TO

nat. 22:52

CLASSINICATION

GATE

Y Breaker 1903

199S FILE MUSCOCA

90-6-7540

sea.

.

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CHE THE

i base a stabia do

: E0NG4-2492

So I10870n

Don tom no alertiont

There wire no gruble during the won.

To Destintent

fun Ran une of oralde transitor volch the station hame commented fran

ArolA lo ANTLEr for security retIcal. there vero no olher sohlem.•

A Benarael

There so no chesse dutar tate garted.

Ture la attrahal « llat of sugarta, cables ent aluatebos formal

sto beat cocoa.

ite wine,

---

