# 104-10510-10115

## Page 1

104-10510-10115

DISPATCH

CLASSICATION

SECRET

roorn

UNFO.

WH/C

PROCESSING

ACTION

MAX LO FOR INTRING

NO INLIXING RIQUIRRO

CRET QUALINTED

HEADQIIAATINS DESH

CAN INDRA IMOCRIRO

ABSTRACT

21

Chief of Station

SE ARIC/OperAtIOnA JUWAVEP4&

AMBUD Medical Program

ANTION REQUINED. REFERENCES

References:

A.

B.

D.

E.

F .

G.

H.

I.

Action Required: As stated in paragraph 3.

rehabilitation program has reduced

As reported ill Reference A, paragraph 1, the modical/vocational

monthly medical

the number of

dependency payments to.six

Individuals roceiving

fi this number, a serious medical case who

"lard coro" cases. One of

is funded by Garcia Lines.

resides locally|

The background of the

cases and previous correspondence with lleadquarters regarding resolution

of the problem is contined in References B through I.

Being forwarded

oder Senarate Coyer are Attache lone estate mon

which forwarded case histories on

and comment by the Nodical Staff.

for analysis

nearcar reports originated subsequent

to the submission of the Reference C report and are being forwarded

Under Separate Cover as Attachments C, D and E.

2.

as follows: + la

The current status of each of the remaining cases is summarized

б

EPILEPSY

S2 04cs) 0e old death ent rentment e cade County De artent

62-29762 Oated 31 May 1966 states that

continues to have

9. 21-2344578seizuros which the Clinic is attempting to control by

6.2 @091018 mediation. (Attachment A.) (U/s/cl

6-161-212.76038

tAttachments U/s/c

À through F as described

Distribution

tHis 1905

J-WH/C w/ cy each - ToTAL-Cays on

Att. U/S/C

(plus l cy Dispatch

for each 201 file

dontinued...

19.124. 35/5

DATE TUFED

DATE DISFAYCHEO

28 Sept 66

oCT

6 1966

DISPATCH SYMIDOL AND NUMBER

w/pertinent Atf.U/S/C)

GAILSE

CLASSUFICNTEN

SECRET

HEADQUANTERS FILE NUMBER

19-124-25/5-3

* Plus each 201 file

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATIÓN OF

DISPAICH

6201(011702))

Recoline oopalione trentment; most locchtly for a

kidnes infection.

AMBUD3 slatos that it to Incredible

dullardes in it

in i repore prepared by De. Varans in day 1000,

(Attachmene 1) (U/S/C)

(201 281130)

Rocolving outpatlent care al Jackson Mimortal Hospital

Department

of Psychlatry.

A May 1900 report from

the Hospital recommends that Subjoed continue undor

psychiatrie outpalland care lor at loast mothor

year• (Attachment C) (U/S/C)

d

MENTAL

-(201(209101)

Continuing to rocolve treatment from Di. Mora who

wrote on 11 August 1906 that Subjoct Is vory 111 and

In nood of further psychiatric trentment.

(Attachment D) (U/S/C)

€.

MENTAL

8201 292760))

contiming to receive treatment from Di. Mora who

wroto on 11 Aurust 1906 that Subject has shown signs

of ronl Improvemont which may result in his bocoming

soli-supporting. (Attachmont E) (U/S/C)

201 not

AVATINDIO)

BLIND (Advanced sinucoma)

Recelving

outpatient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital.

(Attachmort E) (U/S/C)

It is requested that the leadquartors icrlown baction 6

described, in Roteronco C for handling the cases off

be oxpanded to Include nil the remining cuses na-that

MWAVE bebInformed of the conclusions reached concerning the

ultimate disposition of these casos.

An amount of $250,000 was originally authorized

for tho medial phase of the AMBUD Progiam.

Expenditures under

this progrom have roached a level of approximately $245, 000 with

bills outstanding at the present time of $3,250. It is evident

that the cases chaining

which require medical treatmont as

outlined above will

necesstate the expenditure of sums in excess

of this amount.

12530

_SECRET

2

---

