# 104-10217-10115

## Page 1

104-10217-10115

CABLE SECRETARLAT DISSEMINATION

PRASON UNIT NOTIRIT.

LOVANCE COPY

ISSUED

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1997

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGI

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP I

870,000 10 00

(When Fillod In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

BLOTTED

INDEX;

YES NO

*-ARE TO FILE NO..

FILE RIO L'RET. TO

ROUTING

ANCIOR INITIAL!

LEN BY

10

DISSEM BY

ACTION

WH

292

ARANcHO

LA DESTROY UBIC.

"AID COPY

SECRET 18121& JUN 69 CITE WHIMIAMI 4397

WMINI

18 Sea 89 IN 83940

DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMSPECIAL

REF DIRECTOR 11816

1. TERESITA GONZALEZ DID NOT ASSUME THAT SHE COULD CONTACT

GORDON M. BINIARIS IHROUGH THE MUTUAL LOCAL PAYMENT OFFICE BUT

MADE THE ATTEMPT BECAUSE SHE WISHED TO PASS INFORMATION THAT :

SHE HAD RECENTLY LEARNED ABOUT HER HUSBAND. SHE HAD NO MEANS

OF REACHING BINIARIS AND AFTER TRYING SEVERAL OTHER POSSIBLITIES

INCLUDING THE PHONE COMPANY, SHE INCLUDED A NOTE WITH HER PAYMENT

RECEIPT IN THE HOPE THAT IT WOULD REACH BINIARIS.

2. BINIARIS WAS HER HUSBAND'S HANDLER IN CUBA AND SHE WAS

WITTING OF THE OPERATIONAL RELATIONSHIP. SUBSEQUENTLY, BINIARIS

MADE THE LOCAL ASSPECIAL PAYMENTS TO HER BEFORE THE MIMUTUAL SYSTE

WAS STARTED.

• 3. FYI:

AT LEAST SOME AMSPECIAL RECIPIENTS ASSUME SOME SORT

OF WOFIRM RELATIONSHIP WITH MIMUTUAL. A FEW RECIPIENTS WHO DID

.. NOT RECEIVE TIMELY PAYMENTS HAVE CONTACTED AMOIS THEY KNOW TO HAVE

WOFIRM CONNECTIONS TO SEEK RESOLUTION OF THEIR PROBLEM.

4. FILE: 201-275949.

SECRET

iS COPY

SECRET

BX

DESID

FI

201-275949

18 gus 69

---

