# 104-10265-10074

## Page 1

104-10265-10074

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination.

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Nọte)

NW 532176/20/17

SECRET

20 March 1860

(dictatod 28 March)

BOXCRISDOM FOR TR INCORD

SURAUT:

Contact with Mr. Willian Pavley In Miaml, 21 Marci. 170

Tino, 1:4A hours; MI. Pawley'a Office

rolloving Iteme of uperational importence verg covered:

subject was cuntacted it. the express request of Chie!, WHD. The

Finsl letails for a strategy meeting involving, Ctlef. WaD.

CITASTE, Mr.

Fanley, and Chief. Branch 4 were discuercy.

It, 399

arreed

that he troip would convene the second and third o? April

at Mr. Paulay' a Miami home.

Further details and the arenta were no

d!scissed other tran to say that prinelpal emphanla vould be on

reviowing what.

work could be lone throughul: the hemlaphers and

publie opinion on the pending operation against CASTRO.

Mr. Pawley was told that the time had arrived for carefs).

coordination of all act.lvitles: that permlasion hair been franter

for an all-out operation: a go:ernment in exile vill be. former port

that tre acceptable non BATISTA groips will be put into con-

tact with each other almost imediately; and that Mr. Payle''s contect,

RUBIO Padilla, w1ll figure prominently

in this effort.

and 1t was agreed, that immediate plars should be made

for the exfiltration of RUBIO from Habana..

C.

It vas carefully explained to Mr. Pawley that any sction

Involving exiles now should ba most carefully coordinated with

Chief, WHID and Chiel, Branch 4 to ivold any flaps. He agorced to this

arringement.

Mr. Pavley passed to Chief, Branch 4 some very sensitive Ioforestion

concerting the: Dominican Republic.

He requested this information not be passed

beyond CIA until he had the opportunity to give this information directly to

Vice Presidont Nixon.

In point of fact, he initially said ho didn't vant the

Information paased on to Chief, WiD. Chief, Branch 4 replied that be could not

agneo to this arrangeuent since he was obligatod to pass the inforsation on.

Chief, Branch 4 said, hovever, in view of the fact he was not returning to

lashington until 22 varch, he could not pass the Intormation on prior to thet

time. Mr. Pavley sald be would relay the Information himself before that date,

so the question was settled amicably, As it turned out, Chief, WiD had already

returned to washington.

recolted the intormation tia another channel by the tine Chief, Branch le sal, l

zemo

J. D. Esterline

501.77378

Distribation:

- UH/a Meso File

1 = Sublect Elle

SEGRET

---

