# 104-10276-10074

## Page 1

104-10276-10074

.?..

fire-it!

SUBJECT!

Meeting wich SETAPE-D 3i can 1364.

A meeting with L-? look pace Ina 2010 9411 2145 now 30 J0

1954 al the gale apartent, 19 was la surprisinly good spirlio, shove

none of his usual deprassion.

2. {L-9) reporte! On the saliming:

8o On Saturdar 18 Jan at to nual Enbargy stall Meeting, devoral

now assigmento were poised out.

A "tirao month plan" me

announced and doring this period star. members, in addition

porcare "pecial reports on several

1, in a 808.t.y

prof to doing

• Bat

wit ayor gatom

1050106

3768

p 3:41

¿DACHADO MIlI do a report as countries which have diplomatio so

Lations vith Cuba - euphasizing how contact with representatives

here in Maxico of such countries may la parlayed into something

P7slá- more worthuhilo for the bastro governates

Rogello RODRiGLE? Mea

given an assignuent as Polllical Reporting Officer.

At this meeting Guillero BuiZ of the Commercial Office . who has

recently been sergins 85 & tanatieal Fidellata spoke out about

the recent accord between the ISSR and Cuba, saying that it was

convenient for the los? to keep on the cood side of Cuba and thos

falstkop a dagger in the back of the imperialists, AmbarIeder DESHADE

Aras, sonshat taken abaek. by RiTz' language, pointed out that the

relationshap between the laSh and Cabs Is based, above all, on she

highest principles of international friendahipo

crisi

Last Wednesdey (29 Jan) a Sortat official, Boris I, RUCENTO, visited

the Cultural departent and spoke with APARTeTT and lay 18g took

pains to "be a good Cornist" during this encunter, (Inle con-

verantion was picked up by VESTRIP) RUDENNo was also at the hono or

HOTACIO FLOPES Sancher on the ?8th after the Marli hango session

s= the Cuban Cultural Ingtitita.

A Bolivian von a aRna posgibly VIliAilA - vaa pecently at the

Hotal Onioni vili 7 chlidren, initing to go to Cuba to jola has

husband to woris there to? beileres she has gone on to Cuba.

On 17 January Cuban delegaies So the CEPAl Conference visitai the

Embassy aMl spoke ali. Erassy employees.

One cl those delogates,

referring to the Nicaro plunt in Cuba, sald thai only 12 engineers

I the orialrad 31 realnes

Or -630, a man nanat (fru) PRESILL

as a:lll doire, an axcalient job although he 1s physically la pos

• condition.

The ilcaro pant specifierily,

and techniclass throughort

the teen le tech her the the the dada tacon 19o

The dalegates said that

SECRET

---

## Page 2

P81921°

0:.

a co

"canel cal

fr. 23 "anuary

172H1

The Mian lay to the colo sion the

'i said,

My saw it with r0

name on 1t."

LENARI" came to the

The ins gajig at die

was injirg to sai exhibition riches to a film ertluled "mist

y Grisen shich had toen filmal in jorazuela and shon only tulce

before the governot scut lt dons and prohibited future shounges

labelling the film as of

"improper social tendencles." BEJARANO

sald that she parnad to stay ir. Mexico aboul a reel and would aleo

contact the Soviet and Cooch S-barries In an effore to sell the

fian anl recoup sore s. the cort o: pralucing 1t. She wag coid the

her proposition would te relajed in llerana.

no A young Cuban doc or,

anod Sile: o luTes, 10 in Merleo City an

trying to reter to susa.

Fo vas In the Eabassy on 29 Jan and hai

been there befor?

The Varts connenoration at tlie Institute/vas a bly success. A lot

of pasple shousd en. Te speskery were Ermanell CARIULO, Raul

APARICIO, Gaston MIC, Ernesto iCTLA Sanchez, and Errilo ABRED

p133

not want to 8a for sore reason uninoun tolLe?, While at FleRes

place, to say tat hau PERSIA "Paullio" geemed vory Intergytad

In FLORES Sarcher an asial a naber of questions about him. 1a9

says that MoRES 19 a sell imon hooserial. (LIDiTOY shows that

1863/ RAWL PEREIRA

positato homosexual)

8.7365

Copylip:

13494

13 director di to STi"s" dancina studio located at Monto Ararat

She vait like. to go t

Cuba to soar up sore calling,

1$ 2330 hours 21 229 lanto barcelalado, a Horturan, violtod 820

Cultural Donartnert.

ta isses in Fuebla at Pedbla 13 Sur 3307-13.

Later on he spore sita Bogello ScoRtause and told -Daft ervarda,

"Rozello doesn't sem to trust no."

Tho Brezitar-POlish inciner lapass at the alrport has gone on

Mis men (aiDs) 1s "rely correct, does not say much,

ArtAr Iemsy BirPilL was seen off at the airport, Govar CONCEPCION

"geomled" thai she hai boon fires en ontare of Fresident DORTIOOS

who got aired of receivin; marto tiat a famous incorationa

Bro day tell error ratel tas working at the

---

## Page 3

Titti

into bei

p838%

1 8360%

1: Buste

HEDGES

4028%.

ne trainine dont the "icida" whe

superadig work there - Neil,

who can't deny do get anythin? done nod uniy succeed 1a tessles

un paner.

C-dilero BUTe has bern shorine, hisself to ba quito aggressive

policieally in sints meetings.

¿e ap; paro to ho a toiest;

pertsar of the Castro regina.

WANi, has been loes apprasire than beforo, has recently been

drun in the dupe aml hag basy perling a lot of time talling

tO IRA. MACHiDO.

Tho Ambassador told Ura, MACHADO that MIRABAL

and lexiean foal don't get along tair her.

8 ECIpeRCIAS, Medean employee of the Cultural Section - who

handles distribution of castro provarania to pecple who visit the

Etbaggy - has been siren a desis in tha Cultural Secilos, This man

caly cams about 5 - 500 paros por month.

SER SAIS TRAT ROJAS

OPIRO S5 DOLCHT ME IS AVAILABLE! lis is about 28-30 yeare oldo

CODE SILORZANO has retumel from Cuba.

There 19 aong talk that

she rigat marry Josus SOlo, in Culn, although she 19 much older.

Si?0 1s somo sort of leader -perips a labor leader there.

On Sunlay 26 Jan a group o? Chinese acrobats pald a coursesy

rialt to the Embassy.

The leader of this group said that Senator

Manuel CRED sanches would son be rains to chine prys Vers

she boses to go to the IS to couri the Joingor L00es lateos

She came vith Dorsises, divorcel wifo of a forme

that 011Z. Oruns and Ambassador HorriDEZ Amas are great friende

and that she had seen an avalose which DIE Oriaz sent to the

sha appeared to be quier unet that Vietor RiCO Calan had

beon Invited to Cuba but that she had not. Sha varto to lalarien

Md I CISTAD açain, HEDGES ls an American ditizen, liveas

in the Embassy trage to impiment his plan to guin tos Cuba to

Forida and set a nou world recoid. APARICIO remriod to tai

the preslient

80, 2549,

• 21-17-63, address Azarld

ma subvecretsry o."

SEC.E7

---

## Page 4

5110T

know much amus dig run, !a.

,a9."

sations not

New York, 1957, It sili ba ordered iron li gerate:%.

L, The moatinp, had to be cut ahert since a rad to so alsonoro to meet and

assens an agent prospost uho var plinino to lera lorico Cliy the mert morningo

Accordingly, it was aumed that anotre mering hond be held on tuesday l lebruary

a$ 2200 at the sale apartrent, Talwill de mid ils danuary salary at that time.

---

