# 104-10071-10188

## Page 1

104-10071-10188

SECRET

LX-3891

28 January 1974

UFA

MEIORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Information on Personalities Obtained fron

FRED- 1

and Passed to Station WH/Miami and Headquarters and

Miami FBI

1. The attached information was obtained from

REL 1,

an American who returned to the U.S. 30 June 1973 following

Lino

years imprisonment in Cuba, from

porsonal debriefings on

7/8 July, 1/2 August and from subsequent letters from him.

2o. A copy of the attached report was passed to Station Wil/Miami

the si pouch on 23 August 1973 and a otorilizod copy was

pouched along with it for passing to the FBI office in Miami. Also

Included for both (storilizod for FBI) wore copios of CSCI 316/02055-7:

CIR 310/08176-73; CIR 316/01809-73; and CIR 310/02041-73.

3. A copy of the attached and sterilizod copies of the above

CSCI and CIR'e were also passed

to Mr. Schwartz, FBI liaison with

CI Liaison, in the lattor's office on 30 August 1973, Ar. rig

Coloman Introduced

the undersigned to Mr. Schwartz and knows that

the documents. were passed.

Chria Hopking

- WH/COG/OS

Eay'

PHODULTS

latt

201-733547

стл.

Sila

AARO

RECORD COPY

9616

"SECRET

201-733647

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MRMORANDUM FOR:

SUDJECT

Foderal Dureau of Investigation

Intolligenco Soction

Cubans 10 tho U.S. • Inforation Provided by

LX--

3891

218

201-841614

AnaLitOR LIE GRO - DoM Circa 1944. (Told do

by Ivan

VID A L on 25 July 1973). AllogiO is reportodly working for Miceholl

201-051810 1210380 and

STA idencistention carda and calling Cubans id Miani that they ara nonboro

Thoy aro

aloo aying Webelll 1o a nember of CIA.

of CIA. / Thay roportedly had a businos on 8th Street in Moal and sold

on doll ama do public. They say that the u.s. Cout allous clo to 00ll

area ch tha side to make profit in rotum for big thinge thy do for cho

• Covt.

201-00414994

Odon A L VA

Califomia.

know him vory wall in Cuba than Alvaroz had high

pooition bofore and after Coatro take ovor.

paid ha made derogasory

opacchad agalnot the U.S. La Cuba, 1a da coatoce In Eha U.S. vies Aida

onito of tho Anoricholor u.s. Govt.

VERA

and should be vatched

board ho la to mako poochod la disto

JohnnyA RI MENDES - Currontly ln Mieni and cao Johnny's

vas acool pigeon for Baciota polico and official doller of drugs to Carlos

PRIO. Id currently a stool pigoon for police in Miani end 10 aloo

Involvod in DRUG business in Mleni.

MUELLER brothora. Currencly

in Miani and has collected thousands

of collara fros Cubans with tha promiao to got their femilios out of

prioca • connected vich tha Cosmittoo of 100; has not gotton anyone

-1, I roleaned.

FAR BUSE VI O (nul - say nos bo In U.S. Was connectod wich

---

## Page 3

1400000 г

201-899÷17

LEGRO -

Bom circa 1944. (Told tol

by Ivan

VI DA E en 25 July 1973)•

111ogro lo reporcally vorting fox' Micchall

201-051110

Allegro and

Lavingoton

WERDE IL. JOMAI NI ed ad ropertodly carrydas

ATA IdonEsilcation cardo and colling Cuband 1o Miani that thay aso scabara

Thay are

aloo oying Webolll 1o a nembos of CIA.

of CIA./ Tay roportodly had a busineus on 8th Streat in Mieni dad sold

or pall ama to public. They oay that the U.S. Gove allows cia to sell

anna ou tha oldo do sala prodie in roturn dos bis Ehloga shoy do sor cha

• Cout.

201-00414994

Odon A

I VARE 2 DO LA Compa • Curronely, 10. tho U.S. Lula3 in

• Califormaio.

know hin vory woll in Cubo shan Alvaroz had higi

position boforo and altos Cootro tale oVer.

oadd ha mado dorogacery

opeecheo againot the U.S. ¿n Cula, 1a in contase La te U.S. vida AIdo

1050 Of the AnDriceOLOr DoS. COVE0

V E RA and phould ba untehed

heard ha lo to pato specched in usSEd

JOSEFA RIMENDES-

Carrontly In Miani ond euno Jolmays

Droca Bar in Mand, Wao connectod with Pronlf? I G

TORE La CubO,

vao atool pigoon for Daciota polico and official seller of drugo to Carles

PRIO. Io currently a stool pigoon for police in Miani and 1e eleo

involvod in

DRUG buoineos In Miani.

N0.D0'

'DorchalD ARRETO - 10 E10d 1a wich tho noter of the fanoua

MU ILLER brothoro. Currently in Miami and has collectad chourande

of dollaro fron Cubong wish tha promine to gat thoir fonilloo out of

prioon - connoetod with tha Committoo of 100; haa not gotton onyona

coloasod.

PAR BUSIVI O (EnU) - day noa be In U.S. Mao conncetod vien

,CODO Of TRANCLOCO D LA HC O dE 100 CueCOs, ArCRaIViO VAS A 8t001 Digay

1a Cuba 1n Eho caso of Blanco andy for that dained hlo froodos.

LOChoND O ÉGÁS - formarly nazziod to Enrel busto Monzoa tho

diod in Venocuole after ho vas solenned fron Cubon jail about 3 yoaro ego.

Sis 10 RED and anzious to coma to U.S.

WATCH.

SECRE

axt/ to 2x-3841

101-7335497

APERZURE

CARD

REPRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Tacolafe A D'A NAS - In 1959 was o'udying angineering in che U.s.

Whoa Fidol Caotro took over Cuba ho recurnud to Cuba. Ho vorved 6 yeare a

in prison in Cuba, uao a ac0ol pigoon in prioon. Lo currontly lu cho u.s.

DEFC A POTE (Inu) • Nas LE. De. In Pidol Castro's Astry and worked

In tho Military Rospital in Havana. Was arseotad in Decembor 1964 along

alth 5 or 6 balo nursos. Was doctor to Bothar of Sergio Dal VAllE, curreue

Miniotor of che Intorior. Has solaaned fron prison after about Y yeare.

Nas bad to prisonoro. Del VALLE roleded hin and got him into the U.s.

quickly. Rumors in Cuba aro that he died in U.S. of concer.

said

that la not esuo; Capora 10 BEill in U.S, buE he docon'e low isaro

201-138311.

COPCCO Y DIE - NOS DdJUGOnS LO'CONIO CIL NY UR GOS bofore

laccor sno billod. COYOTE did not finiah prison sentence in Cuba.

ocool pigeon and plap in Cuanabacos. Was and do taking DRUGS. Worited an

night cluo in Now Jorney, alao no dinond cuccar. Writos to prisoner

LUdO S A NT A I A bad pouching tho U.S. Says la 10 SOing tO PiortO Rico.

Ya currontly working on TV.

"Juan Polipa

de la CHU 2 - 084440 Palu Av. of Ellaloan, Pla.

¿Thoro 10 a lot of talk about bia in Mloal. Rocontly died in Franco won

dynaalto exploded in morel room, Woo conbar of tho Directorio • or cho

Scudanta grOUp, leN 1S grOUp O& AUbORCOMU ELLER. nuder:r

602. 0050-008

'RobarcorD AN A - Currently in Cuba but lo Exylna to gor inco tha

U.3. Wao sontouced to 30 yoars topcioonnant in Cuba but corvod about 10

yoora, No currontly head of the Clinde in Marianco; voaro a plutol;

saga colloknow do a homoserual in prioon. Divorcod - ulfo and daughzer

are in the U.S.

"D I I 2 (Enu) Cisrront reaidenco unknown. In 1966 wao a mender of

Go2 10 Cuba and did groat nara to peoplo. In 1966 loft Cuba with vita

ond children fron tho Nautico Clus in lavana. Later showad

picturea of

hiasolf aboard "Onford" in unifona. After that tha Caatzo Covarnsone lot

hio plotos, baca unimova, com to the U.s. slocor dlollued hia Intonooly.

2=1. 0235696

VILLALS PIN- VILe Of Raul CASTRO has a courta and a God-father

---

## Page 5

14:00000. DITCA POIE (Enu) • Was LE. De. In Pidol Cootro'a Asay end coriod

So Eno MilIcary HoSpiCal In lavano. Mas arrootad in Daceuber 1964 along

usch 5 or 6 calo surooo. Hau doctor to sochor of Serglo dol VAlls, current

'flindacos of cho intordos. Vas colosood froo prison after about l yoaro.

Wao bad to priconoro. Dol VALlE roloadod him and got hia into che u.s.

quickly. Rumoro in Cuba are that he diod in U.S. of concor.

aaid

chat do not truo; Capoto lo neill in U.S. but ho docon't know

lactor wao killed. COYOTE did not finion prison sentenco in Cuba. Was

otool pigoon and plap in Guanabacon. Was and 10 cakies DRuGS. Worked in

nigne cluo in Now Jerooy, clao as dionond cuctor. Uriceo to prloomor

Luio S A NI A lA bad mouthing the U.S. Saya la lo going tO PuartO Rico.

Xo curcontly working on TV.

i 31011 0.0

"Juan Pollpo

La CRU 2 - 08 4440 Pala Av. of Hilaloah, Pla.

"Thoso lo a lot of tall about lla in illoni. Rocently diod 1a Fronce shon

dynanito exploded in motal roon. Was nambar of the Directorio • or the

saudanto group, maich la group ox!

RObOriOD AN A - Curtonely 11 Cuba but lo Eryina do get inco ela

U.5.. Was dontonced to 30 yearu lepriooniant in Cuba but barvad about 10

yoara, ¡o currontly hoad of che Cliale in Marianco; voaro a plutol;

sasa vollulmown au a homosexual. in prison. Divorced wife and daughter

are da cho u.s.

DID Z (Enu) - Current revidenco unknown. In 1966 was a manjor of

Co2 in Cuba and did groat hana do people. In 1960 loft Cuba vich vifo

and children fron the Nautico Clut in Havana. Later chovad

I pictures of

binsols aboard "Osford" In unifona, After that the Coutso Coverasat lot

hio olator, nemo unimoun, cona to the U.S. Slater alollios hia Intonsoly.

#n1 8838696

SPIN • wife of Raul CASTRO has a couoin and a God-Father

La Hiani currently.

The onor of the Costee Shop In tha Cuban Comartial

Miani

Contor on 22nd Avonua/told

on 6 Auguot 1973 Chat Espin'e cousin and

God-fathor are roportod to be buying up a groat deal of land around Mical

and Eavaling do and inor puarto lia frequently.

190129.

ONS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECHET

Ricardole E O - cana co cho U.S. uith dora infiltratoro, Loft Cuba

fron Mariano Boach one Sunday norning without worry.

Poo was dont do the U.S. by tha Canadian sidneyto O RD Ol - curreally

Qi in Cuba, and wee ono of cha persons who turnod in

D E Z Valenzuola - 10 currontly in Miani.

He 10

201-81.743

the only one still alive fros cho phillipa VIDAL Santiago caso. Phillipo

wag shot and killed in La Cabanas in May 1964.

BAYB JUlLO VERMANDEL

do da che U.S. bacause lo sao a acool pigeon la prison; bacauso Jullo'o

saclo:1o head of the Communior Party in'Coctorro"in Havana; and because

BlE brother JONG BanualF

GALENZUELA vo a opy 1a the U.S. for Pidol.

• Joco Manual was in tho U.S. fren 1961 until 1964 when he roturned to Cuba.

Golian people out of cuba, ouci ao tha prople from the layo Angullo caco.

to was escused of molooting a Dinos (a 13 yoor old) and jupad ball ? where?

Whoa Joco Manual was in jail in the U.S. ho had a lawyor by the nasa of

09-01

1201-334710

(Infomation Bivon co

Dy

Iv2n VIDAL,

In Micni

201.0366260

company, In currently concoupending wien lubari A I O& 1a tho Pilselpo

Prioon in Cano, clondeucinaly. Forts collo

no 10 egalrat Macos

100%.

2110984039

20-74731

insul b.o

VL% Mao brougie Patriclo

SUAREZ

to tha

U.S.

odys SUARL? 0 Red; ha was in the sona gallory with

1n La Cabana PILOON.

1209)

Recon

ENTE

9 junco- talophoned

M2a01 oD

20 July 1973. Rason told

ChaTO ha 10 otoyLE]

10810299239

ho woo

speaking to a Candiõo MOLINET,

11ch choa he lo otaying, rocently in

no anonsen oifled in Mlonl, fornot hid colophone mmbor and wondered

---

## Page 7

74-00000

. Goi la Cuba, and wes ono of tha pornono sno cumod la

ND E:2 Valencuala • Lo currently in Mian. Ho lo

201-261043

tha caly do scill aliva frca cha phillipo VIDAL Sanciago codo..

phillipa

was ohot and billod la la Cabanao in May 1964.

Boys Julio VERNAlDeZ

do 1u Cho U.S. Becauso no wao a utool pigada in prioon; bacauso jul10'a

unclo'lo hoad of tho Commuloc Party da"Cottorro"in Havana, and beccuao

B1O BrOCher JODO BARUOLE ALENZUELA Mad d opy la Cho U.3. for Fidal.

308o ManHOl NOS 10 She U.S. fICa 1961 UnCIl 1964 Unca ha raturnad to Cuba.

no currontly do 1a Cuba. J00d Manual lu sald to have maio a lot of concy

casino pooplo que of cuba, vucia ao tha proplo from the layo Anguilo cado..

Do vas accusco of colonting a almor (a 13 yoor old) and jumpod ball ? unero?

Then Soon Manual vas In jail Iu lia U.S. ho had a lowyor by the nama of

1201-554710

(Inforation givon to

VIDALD.

1a Mien1

801.0966260

compony. lo curcontly corsouponding vich aubor AT 0 S da cho Principo

Erioon in Cuba, chondoccinaly, FONTS tollo

he lo again t Hotos

100%

201.0.084138

VIOLEOd POylO 10

Mical sharo lo la stayies tor 3 Asure On 24 July 1973} 11a Saches 8026

2ul.

«PS2 3: 18

CO Caba vin Rocon D 0 N E

3 2 EVE 2 sno brougis Patricio

insul bo.u

SUAR

so the U.S.

Days SUARZZ Lo Rod; he noo in the sans gallory lth

1n La Cabana BEL00i 201

ENTE 3 Janco • colophonad

whoro ho is acoying

13

10000290239.

Pileal on 20 July 1973. Resisa cold

vo opeaking to a Candido MoLIci

with whoa ho lo ocaying, rocently in

tua iraigration offico in Miand, forgot hid colophone numbor and waadered.

tanthor the numbar whore poylo le ocaying ves Candido's number. Ranch sald

hio hons phono 1o: 448-1096; and hio offico phone: 642-2054. Cendido

cola

chat ho do a retired major

of cho U.S. Ardod Porcoo, was twice in Vlotnan and 10 ratirod now vica

incona of 91,000 & wonth and the U.g. Cove/lie 19 year old daughter 9200.

roilara a some in addition. Condiro too a brocho cho do couplotoly

---

## Page 8

14-00000

intogracod with the Cuban Covarment. He name 1o "None" and he vas a

porgeant in tha Datlota Aray. Candido aloo has a cousin by the nasa of

CONZALEZ - one of tho 4 Cubans Implicatad in the Watorgate Cabe. Candido

was always asking

when and 1f

would be releaved

fros prioon to rocur to

the U.s.

VINCIOGALÁR DO - (InfOrmatIon siven to

by Naruco) • Galardo

vao a robal lieutanant; did not complete his sentenco.

Has been in tha

U.S. bofore and wanto to coup here very badly. He 1o RED, dangeroug and

chould be placad on NATCh LiSt according to

"GONZALES (EnU)

hoard in Cuba Chat Conzaleo 10 a Cuban

supposodly sont by tha l.3. to Join tha Rangero in Bolivla to hund down

Ciao/Guavora.

Thore la reportodly a group in Cuba connoctod vich a group

in cha U.S. to ery to kidnop Concalos and get lin back to Cuba. it

unauccoopful choy will lll hin hore. In Cuba they say Gonzalos 10 vorking

for the CrA.

8201.74:114

VEVOlIO GONZAL

"s. is a couoin of

201-73110

Blocia

don'& knou morried

naso). Evoldo 1a tha vito of ono of the Cuban'o involvad in the vatarsaka

Caso. Evollo curconcily Livao in ileal

close ol"ALlS - la currongly in Mical and 1s 2ad in cozond

of Alpha 66 disocely undos Androo NazarioRS A'Re IN. Oclol wao hoad of

the Cuban Piro Dapartmont in Havana. Heat into calle la on caboosy la Cuba.

ALVAREZ 201 1044994

No 10

• porn friend L Can and i de Conne Win.

Ociol has a Morcodos Binz and ochor caro in lioni and it 1a sumorod

1 chae

ho 10 up to donathing very big but poylo dodon't know vhat it 10.

BILLy O VANILS. LochonOLOR A Y upa ho phona for outgoing

Long distance callo Eroa Cuba to Miani and froa Miami to Cuba yeare ago.

CARD REPRODUCTI

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Wo sit ad

Erda prioom to retur to the u.s.

•VINCIÓCALA

R D'O • (Information given eo

by Haruco) • Calardo

was a robal lioutenant; did not complete hia sentence. Has bean in tis

U.S. baford and wants to, come here very badly. Ho le RID, dengerous and

should be placed on WATCH LIST according to

"GONZALES (Enu)D

hoord in Cula that Gonzales 18 a Cuban

suppooodly dont by the U.S. Eo join tha Rangers in Bolivia to hunt down.

Cha Gusvara. Thare la reportodly a group in Cuba connected wich a group

in cho U.S. to try to kidnap Gonzales and got him back to Cuba. If

unpuccoonful they will kill him hore. In Cuba they say Gonzales is working

for the SIA.

'EVelLO GONZALES - 10 a cousin of

201.73:.5

61051 a

MO LINE I (romarriod

• don'e now married

neco). Evollo 1a the wife of one of the Cuban's involvad in the Vasargare

Cago. Evello currontly livao in Miami

Ocloo oldes la currontly in Moni and do 2ad in cosand

o Alpha 6ó diracly undos Andros NazariotS A 1 Ell. Oc1al vas nead oe

cha Cuban Fire Deportmont in Havana. Wont lato entie in an embausy in Cuba.

No 10 a porsonal Erland of

AIVAREZ D01 IAG49GL

Ocon /De Lo Carpo and

10 atill in touch with his.

Ociol hao a Morcodos Bina und other cars in Mioni and 1t la rumorod

that

he do up to sonathing very bis but poyle doon't know shat le so.

a5d1

BILLETE O VANILSO

Lot Monolo & A & u00 his phone for outgoing

long diutanco callo from Cuba to Miani and fron Miani to Cuba yearo ago.

watched.

A.

Gueddos noo a otool pigeon.

Gugllatto

used to mako

dorogatory romaska about the Amoricond and tia Ansricon Governor. Is

---

## Page 10

14.00000 ÷

UA BIE SCally • Albarco - Mourielo - Loace - Cally.

insult, o

FAbiro had

buoineao with

a London Rabbi. Iodi out a fou million fion Cuba and cold all furnituro

worked for tha lebifo.

munierous del

JODo (PapON! ERRE RA - 6327 S.W. 15ch SE.Miani. Tole: 065-6097.

Io oupposod to

Do a nowapaper can la lical. talliod egainge U.3.; piC-Asab; Dold Alpia 66

group Mical gotclog cnothos group togother to ocort croublo with Cuba

to forco U.S. hand; tae thoy aro ploming certain actions againoe peoplo

2o cao U.S. Sald Denceracy 1u, worthloos • noe worth. • o o. Soyo ha and

ala group oro in accord with boro bondo to bo thron in Mical and copecially

la Washington, D.C. Caine Rod Eabagalos and Diplomato and cro fos

Lilosopplago. Na do 100% in decord ulch: tha Arab gicup "Ulaci Sopecabor."

boat;

according to

Ro cas of tha coot dangarosa of all. In suppoced

to ba working on conocruction now. A Craitos.

ad cold larodia saa tho hoad of cho Microfostion in Molona 02;

usod o hold Decrot maatingo in basrocio 48 in Molona wish hio RED fricado

and giva cloodos 1n Marsiou-Lenindoa. Ho callod tho U.S. Covartine ovory.

filthy nana chat ealoco. Decauso of his

secolved

beatingo, coarches, ote. Horadia

not tha Macricon

La stantonoredia had a load of suerican dosay with

MO. (SCo CIR 316/02055o73 docod ca. 17 Augaot 1973).

phalaed that

Horedia do vasy laportant and vosy ciovar and should ba vanced.

'ABON HOLZ" curroasty da lical che cisip do a tact.

In Cuba ho woo

NO331

tha lawyer for tho locol Capri for stippy Shapard.

know hin vary well

In Cuo. Holte had

Yu 1959 Holes wad tha flent man to buy a float of.

Oldonesiloo in tho U.J. for cho Fidol Covartsant. In Cuna Kolts had a

---

## Page 11

14400000

worked for the Habite.

BRERA • 6321 SW. 15ch Se Mont. Polo:

666-6097

In cupposed to

bo o novapopor man in Miami. Tolled againot U.S.: pro-Aral:

noid Alpha 66

group illand gotting another group togothor to otart troublo ulth Cobo

to forco U.S. hand; that chay are planning cortain actiona againot pacolo

in tha U.S. Said Denocracy 10, worthlous - not vorth -- •-. Saya la cad

his group aro in eccord wich coro bomba to be thrown in Miani and copecially

1a Vaohington, D.C. againt Rod Enbaoolos and Diplocato cad are for

ildnappliga. Ho 10 100% in cocord with tha Arab group "Bleel: Sepecabor."

VOCO/M ERE DIA (Richard) • currontly in the U.S. • Cana tO 1110a1 ly

boat; eccording to

Lo cao of the moos dongerous of all. lo cuppocod

do bo torklag on conocruction now. A traitor.

and nald Marodia voo tha head of cho Microteccion to Molena 12;

cood to hold pocrot mootingo in Darracks 18 1u Molona wich hio MD Exionds

cad givo cloodoo in Marsior-Loniaion. He callod the U.S. Covarcaant ovory

filchy nano that onloco. Bocouso of his

recolved

boatingo, searches, oce. Noradio sao af

not tha Anarican Ed

scortandorodia had o load of Maaricon nondy wich

ILa. (Sco CIR 316/02055-73 dacod co. 17 AuguoE 1973) •

Emphaalsed that

loredia do very toporcant and vory clover and should ba lANCIal.

In Cuba ho was

The lawyer son the lowed caped in in.

In Cuba. Holtz had

mau hia vary sall

In 1959 Holte soo the firat man to buy a float 08

Oldomobileo In the U.S. for tha Fidol Coverment. In Cuba Roles had a

, monor of the colan a lau parenor la hia offico la Havana. Holts sao wallo

connected with tha Coca Rican Rabaody &a Havana and saad to driva a b13

Cadilee with a chauffour.

SAT

URE

CARD

NEPRODUC

planned

to go to o00 hia in lital..

DIE!

: /1.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

TARTINE

don't ouro of spelling and whochor chio 16

firue or lese naco.) Ivaa V i

d'a l told

that Martine had oona Erouble

in Now York in connection vich

arms and olipped ball. HQ was cougut la

Now York by the f.b.I.

paw hia in Hand 20 July 1973 driving &

Cadillao with a group of Cubans

doncribed ao charactoro in tha cor

vich him

dcoo

not know what Martine la doing now.

Lala (BUlalla) MUSTA

Poylo hoard Lala Mosca

call Cuban friond that nido Vor á ond a fow triands caro in her house

colllag hor about a now srou

that they vare forming. She dida'e coon vasy

happy about 1t.

Later

said he drove by hor house and

Aldo vora'o car mao ucili in front. Lala Mosta woo la Mesico vill ricol

C a o ez o chon ho was proparing hio rovolution, and aloo nas wich fidal

20 cho Siorra licootra countaino. los husbond soportodly wes choc by

V BUT URA's son bajore 1959. Shelala a high pooledon in Cuba endor

Fidal. Sho wilcos a colum for cong snall nawpaper la Mical and erovala

to ochor parto of tha Anorica lu favor of the political priconozo in Cube.

Sis cas in Ponena Lot yoar. Lala i EST A vioitoe

f28 111671 08

vith two othor unidentifiod women, che of

vion sas a louyor in Cuba (Cuban) end curmantly Coochas school 10 Porch

Cerolina.

othor soman

tha cothor of a paloonor in Cuerajoy nerod

RIVERO.

cantlinod a brothar and

ca taclo 1a calatica to chis, e

conan or hor con, who aro Comunloco.

On 31 July Y3

inquired about Aibezto

---

## Page 13

187A64

New fork by cho P.S.I. (Poyio) saw hia in Maul 28 July 19ig driving e

Castles weh a sons of cubans (rogle described do charactor la disa car.

with him. Poyle does not low what Martine is doing now.

Lala (Bulalia) M B

9f A = On morning of 28 July 73) poyle)vant foa

• rido with an unidostilled Cuben sho aropped at the house of Lola Meetse

Foylo)eat 1n the car uhilo the Cuban went to door. (Poyle heard Lala Masta

201-326634

co11 Cuban friend chat'Aldo Vo I a and a fow frianda vera in her houga

colling her about a new group that they were forming. Sha dida't seem very

happy about 14. (About 3 houzs) later Poyla)eald he drove by her house and

Aldo Vera'a car vas it1ll in front. •Lala Medta was In Mexico with Fidel

C a a ts o chan he was preparing his revolution, and aloo was wich fidel

in cho Sierra Macotra mountains. Mar husband raportodly was shot by

VB NT U R A'o son bafore 1959. Shehead a high position in Cuba under

Pidal. She viitos a colmen for sone snall nowpapor in Miani end travels

to other parto of the Amorica in favor of cho political prisonera in Cuba.

She wao in Panama last yoar, Lala ME SI A vlaited poylo, shero he 10

afaying In Maul on 31 July 73,j with to othar unidantiflod woon, one of

whoa was a lawyer In Cuba (Cuban) and curtantly teaches ochool in North

Carolina. The other woman la the nother of a priooner in Guanajay named

M. I VE NO, (Coyla)inetómad a brothar and an unclo in relation to enla

eman or hor son, tho are conaleto. joyla sold thes each, of these ones

called his on phone later, wanted to talk to him alone as each voman didn't

¿suas tha other ond.) on 31 July 73 Rivoro's nother phonod Poylo to aos hda

aha could spaal to him alons and at tha ana etas linguired about Albarco

D, Vis 05i

MUBLIER, DE LOU (CAO, DEECHEMBADI

insug.be0

¿¿above persona inquired about are the bisseat anti-Amaricam la Cuba. Mee.

die.

Mueller 18 waiting for permiasion to go to cuba to viole hor son Alberto.

Working with Mrs. Mueller la hermles Monaignose luoller of the Cartollo

Church•

24

SFORET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

IS MILANE'SE (Enu) o currantly vorking as a doctor at cho

Miramir Clinic in Mioni, Me uno taken out of priooner by Raul C a a € E o

De. Milanese sao Pidol'e nother Lona'e doctor in Cuba. He was a coll-lmo

doctor la Cuba and was with (poyla)at tha hospical la the principa. (Poylo)

said

ho Was a great uBOr Of druge (KEROIN and COCAINE) In Cuba and 1a nos

80od.

+89810985923

RiCardO MORALES - currently in lilani.

Ho sag & fol lloutonant

1a, the Vedado in Cuba and voa sha one vno arrestad Yano pEE t'T E R

in Cuba who saved C a 3 er 0's life in Jail before 1959. Morales had

Done trouble over a month ago. Poyle heard he was bhot and lounded. The

Cubans in Miami accuse him of being a stool pigeon for the P.B.I. and aro

otill gunning for hi.

NO SO CIT-TAL

Waa arrested in 1960 uith the can of coll la, candaace paro Hino.

DOCh MO T IS I ANd COLIN A VOYO Or AYO COCAiRO cOllarE and dre now

free.

N02.01

and aner. Connected with

Raul C A MP O Sedano who died 1a pricon In 1972,

201-301758

political priooner who talked and was gotten out of jail by Vieter Bordon.

201-337841

samuellO DILLES (Commandanta) - Tha Cubana aro loosing for hia.

Rumoro are that he arrivad in U.S. from Cuba Injured; another runor that

tho CIA hao him hidden in the U. 3.

Juaniton U iLER - curronely In Maal. Hossoxual. Had 02

loftiot in prioon in Caba. lo anti anoricon fron head to toes.

are having escrot meetings with groups in Mland now. (Dol late Julyleasly

Aug 1973)•

URE

---

## Page 15

14-00000/

('/olcarcol

(Jose (Pepa) MA RAN 3 O/ 1a LOU.S. Came to U.S. In co. Jan 1970.

Was jalled for a short elma in Cuba. CellaS A N.CH E L 808 hia out and

cant him to the U.S. Before he cane to the U.S. he was la and out of the

Crech Embassy In Havana. His aunt 1o or was a lesbian with Cella Sanches.

Naranjo was a stool pigeon

In Cuba. Naranjo was with the Cuban telophone

company, fell off a pole, was arrested, and spant about 1 year in prison.

Was sont to Principe Hospital; put on a good show. Naranjo used to steal

iron ochor peleonaro. (He told poyle the date he would be free and the asset

date ho sould bo In Mant - he saa. Staes arrival do she U.S. Harsalo

has travellod all over - Chicago, Miaml, New Yorks, New Jersey, ote. Hio

ulie divorced him. He 18 bi-senual and 18 up to no good. Naranjo's parents

dra "Patria o Muerto". Naranjo'e cousia Jeous D'i A?'

Naranjo man was

arranted in Feb 1964 and given 25 your sontence. Is informed on 25 good men

by rovealing to the G-? the far where they were located and where they had

maapons. Tha some cunt who had Jose roleased will have Jesus reloased

fros prison.

WATCH LIST.

oure of his last nama; would hava

so 8oa his picture. Was one of the inetigators of the 26th of July Movesent.

Was Improsoned 1n Melena and froad about 2 yeara ago. Defore he was released

he cold hio incinatos - all loftloes - that he vould ba la the u.s. 30 days

aftor his rolonsa. He loft Cuba within 29 dayo vith peraission of the

Cubar CovE, Poylo haard he do noW 1a PuastO RicO.

WATCH LIST.

(nicknano)

"OU I I A"/ which noana chin in Spanish. Ho la currently. In lou

Sort and up to so good. Ousja ahot and killed a man needS I VA l O

La Miens about o yoar ago, Sylvano sas a malacto tho uas eulled in the

Uruguayan Enbassy ta Havana and cans to Mierl about 9 years ago. "20 vas

ALARIAI Of the MRR. QUISA vas guiatly reluased da ball by money pue up

Dy Hansa! A RP IMB.

+410267437

no 14

---

## Page 16

14-00000

coch Emandy la Havana, Nia dune 1a 05 was a lonblau sita Callo sadios.

Maránjo vas a stool pigoon in Cuba. Narenjo was with tha Cuban colophone

company, fell off a pole, nao arrescod, and spent about 1 year in paloon.

WOe BOnE tO Principa looplEal; puE da a good shou. Moscajo usad to sical

fron other palsonora. (do sold pogle tha dais he vauld be dica and tha dides

date ho would be in Miani - he vaa. Since arrival in the U.S. Maranjo

has travolled all over - Chicago, Hian, New York, New Jeroey, etc. Hio

wife divorced him. He 10 bi-sexual and 1s up to no good. Naranjoe parents

are "patria o Muorte". Naraajo'o cousia Jesua D'i Az'

Noranjo una was

rested in Peb 1964 and given 25 year sentence. He informed on 25 good men

by rovealing to the Gol the fast there they were located and whore thay lud

rapons. The some aunt who had Joso released will have Jasus salooned

fron prioon.

WATCH LIST.

05.

TOROFO LIGADE

(ph)(@0110)not sure of hlo last send; would have

to dos his ploturo. Woo one of tho lootigatoro of cho 20ch of July llovemene.

Wao imprisonod in Molone and frood abcus 2 yearo co. Dofora ho vas roloaned

ho cold Nio inclaacco - all lofcloco • chas ha sould bo in tho u.s. 30 dayo

aftar hio reloado. No lofe Cuba vienla 29 dayo vich paroleoica oi cha

ENCORE GUVE TREND TOON DO SO 2020220 0180 NIE LEGE.

(nicknaeo)

"OU 1J A"/ wilch noono chin lu Spanloh. No 10 cuscoatly lu Now

Port and up to no good. Duija choc and billod a Dan DododS 8EVA No

1ạ Mani about 6 youro ago. Sylvono sas a culacco sno vos onilod do tho

Uruguayan Esbaosy ta Havana and cona to Mians chour 9 yoaro ago. "Ilo sao

a mentor of tho imR. JuijA was gulotly roleased on bail by nonay put up

DY MADLOL A REINE.

+1-96.9447

PELLEYA (SOU) • Lawyor with ng on. LAnd 1n 8el20y 09 10

La CabERIa PElOOD uLCis POyla.

Nas (10) h050002101 end cougat say tiland

vich young boys. les boughs ous of palaen with other bandasuala vicenta

20: 883.415

p0301

• I A 2, formar lawyor co tha Prench Babaooy: TrencLECO VE BDE JA.

141- 210346

+41-7556337

brochor of bullionto Balto.

SECAST

---

## Page 17

14-00000

/8 ERE 2 Disa, Masiallion (Priost) - currently in Mloat and lavolved

mich Alpha 66.

Was a vory wallolno 26th of July combor. Voed to emuggle

aras to Pidol. Ho was sell-imom in Cuba as the Cura da Managua. FIDELISTA.

Ella PER I 2 Dia - Olator of abova pridad

Ella 10 wich Alpha 66. Io Fidoliaza.

VirilloP ERE RE2 Diaz - brochor of clia and priest vas nened prison

I nopoetor in Pinar dol Rio by Pidel. Was roloaded fron pricon without

comploting lilo tora la 1969. Io Fidolloca.

poolcion la publle healch with Fidol Rogine. Currently in La Cabona Pricon.

SCROl RO DILLES (DO P8 Y) additional inio. His fochor worked

in Cuantonano Dose. llda brother • nana unlmown - 10 a lawyer In Havana.

Somal Rodillos was in Day of Pigo. Ha uood tohava partios wich the Russian

ADaDDadOr in 1961. llo oronald - pale - honorozual • cena to cha U.s. by

Resacia 1a 1963; lala naza 10'5000 SAN JUAN. insuf bio

gett

I LOOT RODRIGUE currendly versing 1a a heapital in

insufbio

Ecdriguez uno completod a 9 year prioca sentence in Cuba, lo nou sa Spals,

cad Icaball id trying to got hin into tha U.S. Iooball and Jullo are boch

LEFTISTS.

Inoball nas contenced to 30 yooro lepriocront In Cuba buc corvad

001.0269349

caly i1 yoars. Sha io girl friend of bau

Icabol.

sod to viole all tho Alpha 66 cambers in La Calabas

ohe aloo vioitad than in Prinsipa, Poroona sha vioitod:

"popo

ROSO

LOIIIO SARGEl, OCCAS

Sho

206-355360

Droughs nany moosageo to Andro Nagario 9 A I GE ll thon one arrivalin tha

0.3.

Nagarlo

SARG I I • Ardo and bead of Alpha 66

said the Alpha 66 grong

Saralu. bara.*

---

## Page 18

14-00000

BILO COLO

E1ld 10 vic sEpha 66. 10 Pidollita.

N0501

VUITILLOPE RE 2 DiAS - bronas of Ella and prious vas naned prioon

I sopoeter in pinas del Rio by Pidol.

Was reloaned fron prioon withou

comploting his core in

1969. Is Fidollata.

postion in puble healch with Pidal Rogine. Currently in La Cabona Pricon.

Samual R O D ILL ES (dee pg 7) additional info. Rio father worked

Im Guantonaso Dooo. Ido brother - nano unknown • 10 a lawyer in Havana.

Scaral Rodilles won in Day of Diga. No wood tohave parties with the Rusolen

Ambasador in 1961. lio oromaid • malo • homonozual • cana to the U.S. by

Lasach 1a 1961; 11a DaDa 205000 SAM JUAN. insufbio

DE. LOabOll RODRIGUEz currently working in a heapical n

InSuRbio

RI1CH1. ROr SOOnO BIO all bad. SiO LO DLOcOr OJUlIORUDRI GUEZ

Rodrigues uno complocod a l yoor piloca sentonce in Casa, 10 now du Spoin,

and Iooball da trying to goc bia Lato tha U.S. Iooboll cad Julio ara both

IBFTISTS.

Iodball was contencod to 30 Joaro lepriconnE in Cun but corved

May Curta? Mamayo. 0010 269341

caly 11 years. She l0 Birl fricad of L

unod to vialt all to Alpha 66 cosboss in la Cebanos

ola aloo vioted Elica in Prinelpo. Persona pha violcod: YPopo

AOS0'

VAZQUE

2 Kindolon; EstODE D i A 2;

201-355360

brought many moosagoo to Andro MaDorio 3 A I G E N shon she arrivalin cha

U.3.

Nasorlo

' ARGEN - Ado cad load of Alpta 66

cold tha Alpha 65 group

Cava Ordara tO ENDLE poGplO tO tani do MaltOrO, Dartsaioso, Locolo, baro,

Class, OrC. So Lori, Linton, and lavo a good oscuro sa cano anyona santo co

know how shay liva.

deld ha haard thas a greup egalose tha Alpha 66.

o DRosE sinO agO bursad a bidias placo of tha Alpha 66 thoro the Loctor ha

Loado of arias.

SECRET

9

---

## Page 19

14-00000

"PENTON

dooon't Inow snothar this da bid ama or nicla

no 1o mulatto, Cuban, wao do j011 1a Spain for 17 coacho. Douguz b10 r

out (500 or rofor to LOulo D, 0101

NUER). Ha lo a friond of cha visa 01

the Minotar of Governsant In Spain. Panton 18 la Pranco (Lato 18 July)

but ha will try to anoak into the U.S. Incorpol do after lila for laNes.

WATCH LIST.

500111813188

De. Gorald'S I l1 ON, Cuban - Ex- Vico Minioter, Was icnoved fron

"Public Hoalth" bacause ha couldn't tolerate bad health situasion 12 Cuba

and for othar roadono.

88473119

reportod on about i8 July 73 that Sikoraly had a Red Joguas wnich i

in front of Sikoroly"s house at that tims but Sikorely was not there (? lar

or Mioni?) at prosoat.

pee in. Gifts

Max DX ElZ'- Cornan - Aloo disappearod fron Havana.

1:N501

Enrique (K1K1) ALMUINA - Hao In U.S. In carly 60°0 dad troto

0: 0201

lector to Copt. Chino Y 1 6 U DRO A of Go? (vla Biil'a cochos) colling

Kiki'o bothor doocro.

lotter.

combor ..

Wifo la a school toachor in Cuba. Angel sao an official otool

pigeon 1n all tho pricono.

No lo trying to ger into tha U.S. WAtCh LISt.

#2.

JO0O (POPa) TOBRIENTES - vas la jall with

do Cuba.

Vory valleknow anong Cuban ox1100 in Maal. Lailoo in M1en1 bato 22a bec

they donatod vory nuein mondy to hin for one reason or anothar and have

throate out againot his.

days ho knows nothing shout thie Torrient

except that he was vory,

very rich lu Cuba. Joso has a displutos cousias

sno was in Malona i2 vici

and do now in Guanajay Fri00a.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

the Mindoror of Govarmont in Spatr. Ponton 10 in Franco (lalo 18 July)

But ha ull cry, ¿ó osoak Into tho U.S. Interpol do altor him for pasts.

WATCH LIST.

+001.0813192

Dr. Corald'3 IM ON, Cuban - Ex Vica Minioter. Wao renoved from

"Public Hoolth" becauso ha couldn't tolerace bad health altuation in Cubi

and for othor ronsono.

09493!

reportad on about 18 July 73 that Sikoraly had a Red Jaguar nich v:

in front of sikoroly'a house at that time but Sikorsky was not there (? hi

OT M10n17) at pIddOnE.

Max Di] EÉ 2 - Gerzan - Aloo dicappearad froa Havana.

101001

"EnEIque (K141) A LMUINA • NOS IN U.S. In OOrly 60'0 dd NIOCO

p: 0501

lottor to Capt. Chino ! I C U ERO A Of 6•2 (Va Rikl's mothor) tolling

9-2

sao planning to dynanito all of Matanzas. Kiki's bother dostro:

lotter.

6,2.1

Ángel/t E I RA I ( aloo Angolfe A L A N Poham). 30ch of Novezbor

combor. Wieo 1o a achool coachor in Cuba. Angol vao da official otool

pigeon in all tha prioons. lo 1o trying to got into cia U.s. WATCH LIST.

3000 (POpa) TORRIENTES o wao 10 J01l 5188

in Cuba •

Vory woll-known anong Cuban oxiloo in Mioni. Enileo in Miani hazo hin bec

thay donatod vory nuch monoy to his for one roason or nothar end havo

throato out againot his.

pays ha knows noching abour thio Torciont

cacept that ho wan vory, very rich la Cuba. Jode lad a slapludon coule

uho vas in Molona 08 with Pogle and 10 now in Guanojoy Felooa.

Manual ManOloY T U MAN - Live la tha building nosE door to poy!

otocor-in-law uncro Poyle do utaying 1a Mlaul. Tunan phonad poyle on j A

13 and aalod lin over. Poyle voltod Tunas'o ape ovening 5 Au3. Boyla 001

Tunan 8u0 an activo psubar of tha Communiot Party in Cuba and cloo vary

pedou.

Puman cona to tha u.s. 106G bue

10)

---

## Page 21

14-00000

EGNET

ocheduled to coma uncil 196%, according to hio nueloa numbor. Since orrival

In U.S. ho has been chaod out of pleced ouch as the Factory SUAVE - wnich

males Ked shoo, etc. for agitatlag' and giving Coumuniot spooches. In Cube

Tuman had 2 buses until he turned them over to the Cuban Govt. Ha covos

fron one place to another on ordero from the Communioco. lo callo peoplo

"Conarada" and "Companara y companero" which la sha favorite saying of all

the communista in Cuba.

To

and othere Cubana he hao made derogatory

remarke about our past and current president. Une entire U.S, the jous, etc.

Fuzan coked

about hid fain

Alfrodo

lad 12 yoor contenco: has 2 voara to no.

Aguara Farah.

Iuman

Bao a rolativa la Cuba named

207661

LeVi FA RA Huho lo head of all "DESSA" -

tho cablro contruction of pro-fobrication in Cuba.

Rene (200t nano unlown) - Swas in pIloon

In La Cabana.

Rene was chosen by the penal officar to be hoad of Callory #9 Chas

Rong

10 now in the U.S. vorking in conscruction, and opondo day

and night wiel hio paroonal friond exopolleical paloonor in Cuba - Luis

GARC I A so lo a parenor of the Floriot Shop POUPARINA in Mical, vich

by came noso

L0 famona for selling druze, Shop 18 lou Jereog/aldo

67U30. Boch Rone and Luid Garcia violt the home of Manual I UM A it

Tha abovo Information on Tuman and Rono ot al

cald was cola

by lilo olotor-in-las refa vich unea to livea

who obtainod de fron hor frlend

Hilda those huaband was in prison wich

but not yot allowad to leava

Cuba, Hilda's slotor L0 cUrronEly marriOd tO TUAN but hatoo his for h1o

Costanlat apeaches.

ullda cold

that Tuman lo activa in the

Palootinian Guorilla acelvitloo, was aluays a Coumuniot in Cuba and that oho

do sure ha is currently in contace with the Fidel Coveragat end otkaro..

---

## Page 22

14,00000

SECRET

and l0 a le? inforart.

11U10 VALDES • CarronGly 1a Guanajay Prioon (Luão dated 20 July 73

Ho was/bucinode with a mulatto nanade of

P'ol (Es) charging Cubana co

take then out of Cuba, by boat. Valdos collaborated with tha Gol, cured

la Pon Pon who is currently serving a 30 year sentence. Whilo at Go2 Valdes

nado a deal with the C-2 to have Valdos uida uno lives haro in lical to

hava hor send lotters to the G-2 advioing names of parsons poing frca and «

coning to Miani illogally. Valdes additted this

Many or political priooners are watching for hin conhar hin 1& ha 110

* aloadod and couga

to

the U.S.

728154

Datobon VENTURA - . Thora la such tall going ca in the Caban

colony In lilani concerning Ventura and plots cooking to k1l1 bla.

dooon't know thothor it

1o fuos call or actual plans afoot to lill is.

30ch of Novorber Movecent ln Sontlogo do Cuba, Cuba. He was asrestad in

1961 and given 30 yoar sontence; was solonnod after 10 goare and worked

on a farm shero pro-Cubana uno want to gat oue of Cuba hava to sort. VILLA

wan boss end carriod a plotol on his hip. Boscopad wich nore choa 10

ochar arty officors, including hid brochor-in-law, and taoy are now in Mical

Poylo son VIlIA on tha stroat la lllon1 oarly July 1973. VILLA has two

childron vino live in tho U.s. with thalr grandrocher.

VILLA

told bio wifo to bring cho children back to Cuba froa cha U.s. bacouso

ha didn'e went Enca la cia u.s. ulen choco sob'e. She rofused to consider !

VILLA hatoo tho U.S. and vao continoudly talking egainst tha U.S. and giving

Communiot opeeches. Ho wan tha head of the Mierofactio.

I VAS (fay) A salacto, Ulelnamad "Mao Isa T'ung" ead lovas to bi

called that.. Ma 1o a loftlot and alwaya in moatingo wich the loftloc

3.O R I O Franco uho 10 otIll lu jail.

VIVASA fOchor tortod dE tha Cuntanso DaDo, Gloa Load to B80311 becauso L11

---

## Page 23

So, Pon Pon WiO la CurTOnEly Derving a 30 yoar sentence, Mallo ne Go2 Valdos

nada a deal with the c-2 to hava valdos vida vio livaghere la Miani to

have hor send letters to the G-2 advioing names of paracas going irca cad

coning to Miani i1logally. Valdos additted chio

Mony ox-political prisonero are watching for him tonhan him 18 he 11e

soleasad and comas to tha u.s.

801.728154

"Esteben VENTU RA-. There is nuch talk going on in the Cuben

colony in Milani concerning Ventura and plots cooking to kill his.

dooon't know unochor de la juot tall or actual plons afoor to lill hia.

30ch of Novanber Movenent lu Santlogo da Cuba, Cuba. He wao arrootod in

1961 and givon 30 yoas pontenco; san solennod aitor 10 years and woried

ca a fara unero pro-Cubano who vone to get out of Cuba have to wort. VILlA

vas boos and coriod a platol on hio hip. Doocopod vith moro chan 10

othar aray officore, including llo Urothoroln-law, and toy aro now la Micat

Poylo oar VIllA on the utreat la lllonl early July 1913. VILlA has to

childron who live in tho U.S. wich thair grand ochor.

VILLA

cold hio wito to bring tho childron boei to Cuba froa tho U.s. bocauso

ha dida'e wont chon in the U.s. vien choco son'e. Sho refunod to conoidor !

VILLA hotoo tha U.S. oud no coatinoualy enlising against the U.S. ond giving

Communiot opecchao. Ho wan tho hoad of the Microfaction.

'I VAS (Enu)

"'• A malatto. Ulcinomad "Moo Iso Dung" aud lovas to li

callod that. Mo 20 a lofelor and alwaya in mootingo with tho lotclot

Mazican La Joll escape"carlod o 3''

O R I O Pranco uno 10 ocill Lu j012.

VIVASA fathar worked aù tha Guantansaa Dago, thoa cont to Bracil, beecued kil

firot Cuban that Mao Too Tung cobracod. Ilo

lotar triod to choat tha Caotxo

Covamacat out of oons money, was arrestod, and was armuroo at the tale

od Pinoo whon

was there. He nada dorogatory ronarie

about

cho in to Pronidont koanoûy l

605

---

## Page 24

14-00000

1(6090)

was cuught, pet free, and tried to got inco the Quantanan Base,

But was cought. Vivao 10 currently lu jail l and toachos policical

EnGecsination to the priconeze for Castro. He LaiRED, clever and will

usy to got taco cho u.s.

WATCH LIST.

MartinEA VILEE - he lau friona of Joca (POpa) I ERRE RA

(gv)

Lavallo'e phone

dunbar 1o 534-0278. Told

he wao la j011 froa 1961 to 67 and that

Be would be an Amaricon citizen, on 20 July 73.

and hid frionds

DERRERA. Lavello paid HERRERA pure Nozle.

He alamed Huber

MATOS, MEROZO, JOrgO VALS, "Iony LAPAS, the Alpha 66, cie, Baying they vare

all Concuntota.

)Lavalle

oscremenly inquisitve about: Dr. CAO,

201.

Racon (RInU) PU 1 Cliyaros and POdIO U E MI los cid,

sho are

1a jall; dad EdUArd A RANG

O who 1o in Miami.

¿had covar cogn Lavallo before.

0501

Legundo

frlond

in Cuba,

BE. MaZiO PLA CENCIA, in 1963 sont to Lenao'.. house in

lavona for dinos.

know Lomas (a pilot) had a

flight to Progus within a fow houxo

7oa1o

he had yord that

tho

Co2 picked up Lando

Lanas was frood after 20

o dd

days.

After Lanas

wãs freed the government sent hin to Pregue and le, aftar 3 monthe la Prague,

requenced asylum acnowhere en route back.

-"col. 1l

a wes with Americon Endagay in Havena.

aid thare was tall that he helpod out the counter-revolucion.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

SECRET

insufb.s

ADORCO ERNANDEZ - son of Pico Fornandez Casso - behind

181.02813

the Coumando I - Tony Custa,

and wanted to sea hi

Wentod to tall to (Boyle about

T0MA23

Tony Cuesta.

VROBOTETO A DA L'S O - vas a lOt LE. Weh the Robet Nray and head of a

big zone. Harmed many people.

says he 1s fat as a pig now. He 10

currently in lilant las sentenced to 9 years Imploonment In Cuba. Mado

many antlo marican speeches in prison 1L

Ho hatco Cha

U.S. and Americana ho calls Gringos. Wrote his wife and cold her to got

cut of U.S. and go to Mexico that the owed the Gringos nothing at all. He

cano into las. logally.

not so long ago. (Date of into

7/3 July 73).

AFLATURE GARD, REPRODUOTIONS

---

## Page 26

14-00000

--

crik

SECREI

SydIaP A JARDO - PUeRtO RiCoa tOnOn; Vas naTTied tO ROprOSentaElvO

211271

InnCConte A L VA RE Z; divorcod hin.

Shrowd; reportedly Codonociar of

Juan Bosch' child. Bofore and up until

Lydia urote and

recoived letter fron

Juan

'Bosch®

Lydia loft Cuba In 1964; turned La 59

Buick, sold all fumicuro and left. Sho was involved in a lot of atrango

201-24-4846

Bud nodo in lavana sa th Prosidumo PE IL I E RI NE froa Bay of pigo.

201-7405210 tanis

I C IL • Maition; Commiot. Was Invitod by Pidol Caotro

co cone to. Cuba.

Aftor living thore short whilo wao arrasted for exchanging

dollars for pesos; falled; sava pro-Conaunlot apoocheo. Sald his 810cor

borka for U.N. In U.S. Is froo new in Havana ascosiating with high official

Ericudo of Fidol. Sayo he io a lauyer. Was In exilo in Venazuola sunning

Guay from Duvalllor. Very clover and 1a malina Ricat offori to cona 42 U-E.

restano 20'6 0I - Halla, vas a100 in ja11 1n Cuba, haa boon out

for sone tima noi. lo no good.

• Coronie0

boado in Bolivia of nany largo minea and involvad in Cu ainora union.

Fought wich Hugo DANZER. Involvod mici Erying to gor political priconoro

soloasod. Whilo In Mioni Goronino hung around in tha Royalton Roscuraat.

201

JO00 MOOMARPAK

Told

Guerrillas.

lo woo trying to socrule manboro for tho Paloocinion

Declared publicly that ha was a Commlot oyupachicor. Most

prloonore haced hio.

DE. AbdoPo A NA

na 20!

sran !

RSI•

nado opaccide

Of tha Black Sopteabor novasent

no 200

bocaune of speechad he mada

agaluat the Jews and tha Anaricans.

uithout

racruited orloonara out in the onen. without fear and laiffleulty with tha

---

## Page 27

14-00000

Jean Bosch' child. Befera and p

ricolved lotter from Juan Bosch.

Lydia wrote and

Lydia left Cuba in 1964; turnod le 59

Daick, sold all furniture and left. She wao lavolved in a loc or acrange

201-2144016

bud ness in Havana sith Presiduma P E L L I GRI NE froN Day of Pigo.

201-7485210 Tittie

. Jaque d

•I. CHi • Moscion, Communiot. Wes Invited by Fidol Caotro

so coma to Cuba. After living there short while was arronted for exchanging

dollaro for pesos; jailed; gave pro-Connunlat spoeches. Said his slotos

works for U.N. In U.S. In free now in Havana asociating with high official

friendo of Pidol. Sayo he 1o a lawyer. Was in exile in Venezucla rumming

Gway fron Duvallior. Very clever and 1a maling Ricat offorE to coma to U.S.

for doma timo now. In no good.

• Coronino

MI Clo Dollulan In 81an1. Sayo la 10 ono of tha

haado la Bollvia of many large mines and involvod in ea

c Dinoro union.

Foughs wich Hugo BAILER. Involved with erying to gor poldtical prioonora

coleased.

Whilo in Miloal Coronino hung around in tho Royalech Rescourant.

Fino

2501

JODO AOAX MA

RPAK•

Told Poyle lo was trying to recruit nonora for tha Poloocialon

Guorrillao. Doclarod pubilely that ho wao a Cornundot ayupathisor. Mooc

pIloonero hated hio.

R 3

1 tin

nato opoochoo

in Lavor

of tha Block soptcabor novacon.

no 201

bacquee of opecchos'he mada againac tho yous and ta Amoricono.

ulthous

rosruitad prioonaro out li tho open, without foor end /aitficulty vitia cho

suasde, who know avorything going on.

Paood the syrtons rcerultad people frau the alpha 06 and for thae

En1110

•¿BADeEN nora chaa both onoy lobo do la Cabanco Esison.

Jarlapa lo ye a vas la poloda ule bia son and des 1a lai.

Boporcodly wao a diplonat (counool) in Batistao"

so ard a couseol la

Cho Cuban Babaody In St. Loudo, Elopourt. la and bon both joinad tha pica

---

## Page 28

14÷00000 •

and sero reloaood fron prioon. He in prison tado spaccheo in favor of

the communiacs, would road up on commion every chance ho got and sallied

down cha Anaricans. If ho to not in the U.S. A. nou lo Esying to come hero

In tho vorot day.

G.IP CIEN

EHAB EDE • Labondo Cocholdo Pixont He dools directly

with-the Vatican City in Rone. Is looking for a placo to build a nou.

church. Call clamselves Haroniotas which are Leborose Cacholic. Has

casbara sho aro not 100% Kosher as fax as the Arai situation la concerod

in tho Middle East. WATCH LIST.

no 201

JOTOS A GO Lawyer; confoaned Cosmuniot. Nan one of biscoot

homosoruals in prioon. Served anly 4 yoare of his pricon foru. Mau froad

about 2 yoars ago

(1971) and given good job in Rosoland Department Storo

ca Reptuno Streat In Havan. At Molena #2 Prison vas in charge of giving

clanco in Masxion Leninion, Aroition 10 to cono to U.S. becouse hio

oz awoochoart (a nan) 20 pomawabro in tho U.S. lo masclod wich 2 children.

70-1571663

Arbagsador 7

TADELN

Cabaland offered then a deal, is they would got the plan thay rould ba

306-325164

trood in 2 yoaro. Proscar voro: "Larry LIVI; Frons minici; Davaded

BLACKWIDER; Joha Spirico nAPLas

All othere pald at tima botter

coad chen la cha Plan, but oil

Lator want to Plon.

Woo in

jail

In La CeDenas and Molona 42. Worked for the rolephone Co.

Ln Havana. Communiot who ron fron Spala during Civil War. Bofore 1959

ha had a sumar hose la Guanaba, Cuba, viore ha ucod to hide the Spania

201-924846 CiTSPoN

Communiots. Ho isid tha fenoua Julian GRIMAU thore until ha var dont bacis

to spain and shot by tha covariant. foltal eomploted anly part of hio

contanco and wants to coma to the u.s. WATcH LIT.

-The "JES UY IS" Pothero • Thio ordor did bar in Spoin and are

doing horn in the U.S. thoy aro vall-comeered with the Coumnioto aro

---

## Page 29

14:00000

"rachos,

HAD EDE • Laboneso Catholle Pitans. He dealo direstly

alchecha Vatican City In Reno. In looking for a place to build a now

church. Call thansolves Maronistas which are Lebonuse Catholles. Has

combera sho are not 100% kosher do far as the Arab situation 18 concorned

in cho Midalo Loot.

WATCH LIST.

gorgas Nico layor; confonned Gonzmide. Man ona of bieseas

homonosuals in prison. Served only & yoars of his prioon fer. Was frood

abour 2 years ago (1971) and given good job in Roseland Departmant Store

on Reptio Street in Havana. At Molona #2 Prison wao in charge of giving

classes in Marsion-Leninism. Anbition lo to cona to U.S. because hio

of-awsothoart (a man) lo sonsabro in the U.S. Is mariod vich 2 children.

74-7591663

TADELHOFER • VOLCOd 1a21CCa piLooneso 1a

call ottorad tea a deal, ll elay vould son sia plaa thay toula ba

froad in 2 yeard. Prosent wore:

204-325464

"David

220, 2.01

BLACKWELDER; JoRa Spirico BAPLES

A11 ochoro said

at time bostor

dad than in cho Pion, but all

lator vonG to Pid

10201

Jonal oUTAL - Santon and Communlot secording to

Was in

jall wich

In La Cabanao ond Molena 12. Worked for the telephone Co.

lo ilavana. Comunior who ran fron Spala during Civil War. Before 1959

ho had a sumor hona l Guanaha, Cuba, taoro ha ucod to lido the Sponta

#ll 30484685580n

Consulate. Ho hid tha fanoua Julien GRIMAU there unell la wo dant baeks

to Spain and shot by tho Govommont. POlTAl couplotod anly pare of hio

conconco and wants to coma to the U.s. WAICH LIST.

Tho "J E 3 VITS" Pachero • Tilo order did hara in Spain and aso

doing haru in cha U.S. Thay are valloconneetod uitia cho Coammioto aro

doing a sroat job for the connunloto in the y.s. ogainat tha U.S.. Balo 1e

cho ordar that tha RIVERo family of tha novapopar planta do la Marina

In Cuba wao connected with. In spain the Riveros toro backed by tha monoy

of the JEsUItS for thair nawpapor, cherofore controllod tha new. Ia Cela

bafore 1959 that novopapas wood to blast the U.s. Enhaooy lacuba, copesially

---

## Page 30

14-00000 •

quothor torn in La Cabanas Prioon after having been freed once.

CARD REPROORCTIGAS

SATURE

---

## Page 31

14-00000

no 201

'reddy.I RA SANSKY - bellovedato be currently in the U.s.

would like to see him.

Was well thought of by all political prisoners

'In prison. Was sentenced along with Dan Caswell in the case of the Chinese

Newa Agency deal in Havana.

2001

FrangE RELLES - (don't know whether he 16 American)

hao

word that Trolles saya he was a political prisoner in Cuba; received 30"

year sentence but Llanusa got him out and into the U.S. In 1971.

has never heard of him, but has received word that Trolles is telling

people that ha is well connected with high officiale in Cuba.

TWO Unidentified Americans - according to

• are in the crazy

ward in Principe Prison. They are out of their minds and get electile

shock treatment all the time. One it about 55 years old. They are common

prisoners being held for kidnappings and narcotica, etc.

. ..

---

## Page 32

14-00000 -

SECRET

SUBJECT:

Anericans Who Were or Aro in Cuba

10201

DanielC A SWELL - Suprlooned in Cuba in connection wich tho

talis to

Would Like to

Chinaoo News Agency deal in Havana.

nosooges for him from friends Cuovall was impriooned in in tha Idle of Pin

Poylo caya Caovell was wall thought of by all of the pollical prosisers.

Dollovad to lo currenchy in tha U.s.

DOTTY ZGERALD - vag La Cuba vien

05207-733547

arrived thora

had a bar in Cuba, and was a friend of frant &

NAT

ORIE.

told

he had baco

in coylum in the Swios Embassy Logothar with another American newspaporman

nano not given, who was arroutod becouse Eidol'o peopio know that the

rowopapormon got word that the bay of Pige was going to bappon dacut 12

Ezouro baforehand. Novopopormon

received word fron Morico.

Pitegorald

was a vory good friond of Dob I A D I l, uho rote for the Cuban nowapopas

Et Mundo and who was injurad in the Day of Pigs. He soportedly was vortin

for RDC and for CIA so he said.

John spirotai

2201-351516

MAPLES • was a Robal Copt under WilLon MOntA.

of icalion birth; repostadly came to the U.s. ca. 1946, after Wil, becamo

an Anorican citizen and lator vont to Cuba. Was arseotod la Cuba at end

0f 1902.

. Intonsely dioliked by all priconero; attemptod fo form an

American Legion, which he claimad he wao authorized by the U.S. Govaramon:

to do. When challenged

he atoppad 16. He was charge of teaching

prisoners in the Plan. Later becara a constructor in prisoa and vao la

the procoa of building a guard house without windows in Manaca in Santa

---

## Page 33

14.00000 -

110201

"Dandolfo A SHE•LL - Leprisoned in Cuba in connection with cha

tals to

Chalnose News Agency deal In Havana.

would hike to cour him. Hos

Londaged for him fron friendo Coowell was imprisoned in la tha IBle of Pis

Poylo says Caowell was woll thought of by all of the policical prosiners.

Dollovad to be currently in the U.s.

FELLOW AMERICIN PRiSON ELES

BODY LTZ GERALD - sad 1a Cuba vinen

05 207-733547

arrivod thore in

1959, had a bar in Cuba, and sas a"friend of Prant PIG NATO RIE.

cold

he had been

la coylun In the Swiss Embassy togothor with another American newspeperman

nasa not givon, who was arrosted because Fidel's people knew that the

newpaperman got word that the Day of pigo was going to happon about 72

RARESTED CURU DAG ORDIES

houro boorehand. Novapaporman rocoived word fron Moxico.

Pitagerald

GaS a VOY gOOd fElOnd ORBOR I A B E R, vio vIOLe for tha Cuban nowspaper

Il Mendo and tho was injured in tho Bay of Pige. Ho soportadly was workin

for NoC and for CIA 8o ha doid.

201-351576

"Joha Spfroid

A PLES - was a Robol Capt undor WilLIeS MORCAR.

Of itallon birth; soportodly came to the U.S. co. 1946, after Will, bacana

on Asgrican citizen and later wont to Cuba. Was arroated in Cuba at end

of 1962. Intonoely dioliked by all prisonero; attenpted fo form an

Amoriean Legion, vinich he claimed he was authorized by tha U.S. Governont

to do. When challonged

he atopped it. No wao charge of foaching

prioonera in the Plan. Later becana a condeructor in pricon and wao la

tho proces of building a guard houdo uithout windows sa Manaca in Sanca

Clara, because of his hatred of prioonero, von the Miniatry leamad of

&t and had him Include windows. He hao been colanted by priagnore many

cinod, and on at lonet three difforont occasiono prioonera trled to

asongoinato him. Ho opaake vory ppor Engliah.

MAPLES oad ac cho Suloo

fow daya before

Loft Cuba

---

## Page 34

14:00,000.

SECRET

= :

SUDJECT:

SOURCE:

6o2 in cuba i filir /Hatters-

PREE-1 July/Aug 1973

Penned o

Espies to for

# 89212-3721

AnGuLIO, AM I RE 2 0812 - Puerto Rican. Currently working for

the Go2 1a La Cabana Prison.

Eothoys ORGAS • was releaned from jail in Cuba about 3 years

30.

Inforcad on many persons uhile in jail. Extromoly anzious to come to

U.S.

WATCH

LE

Robarto A NA - Currontly la Cuba DuE 10 trying to gos into tha

U.S. Wao contenced to 30 yoaro ispElocAmant 1a duba but corved about 10,

jeare. Id currently hood ci the Clinic to Marianao; varo a plotol:

wollolnown honopoual in prioon. Divorced wifo and daughter are in

Cha U.J. WATCH LIST

LUCIOTE A LARDO - ExON larICO - WaA a YODal LiOUtoRaRE. Did noE

e omploto hio prioon pontonco. Was li tha U.S. baforo. Wants to cona to

U.S. In bad and CosmunicE. WATCH LIST. Dangerous.

la La Cabonao Prioon, Cala. Went to Cula by plano.. Workod lo Orienta

and or cads lose of andy; wau la Paleino pride for 20 aslee

• Le Cabanao Fricon La 1965;

COPE A " A LA ORE•2

cont hin to Principo; RAM I R I 2 oscopod sad caught ogain and cont

to Galory. #13

LoudoP B RE Diar a la La Cabango Prioca now.

in Mini, Ella and hor brother Maniaillen la prient.

both in Mical and Involved with Alpha 66.

They have brothar in cuba,

VIrIlIO P BRE Z Dios, sno vas inspoctos of the prioons in Pinar dal Rio

201

"Capt. Johnny I

T CHILL • Anarican fron Texao..

G-2 in Canagusy.

---

## Page 35

14-00000

«CL:

CIFREE- 1

jesly/Aug 1973

.11

AnGulIOR A 11I RE Z Ortiz - Puerto Rican. Currontly working for

Che

Co2 in La Cabana Prison.

Bochor

ORGAS - wao released from jail in Cuba about 3 years

60•

Informed on nany persons vinile in jail, Extremaly enzious to come to.

U.S.

WATCH LE

Roberto

A NA - Curiontly in Cuba but lo trying to got into tho

U.S.

Was coatenaed to a0 yaora impeleonsont is hun bus sorved abert lo

yoaro. Id currently boad co the Clinie in Marionao; soaro o plocol;

wolloknown honorosual in pricon. Divorcad - wife and daughter are in

tha U.J. WATCHl LIST

Lucioe

ALARDO • fron Maruco - was a robal lloutonant. Did not

c caploto hlo prioon scntonce. Wao in tho U.S. boforo. Wante to cona to

U.S.

Id bad dEd COnCUROE. WAICH LIST. Dangorous.

n 2181

LIPK

Antonio/RAMIR E Z Orcir o Puorto Ricon • currently in Gallery #13

2n La Cabanas Prioon, Cuba. Wont to Cula by plono.. Woriod in Orienta

Las de auto loca dE aboy: das la veresa pados tox de no,

want

to La Cabanas Pricon in 1965;

•LA ORIGOR

cont hin fo Principo; RAMIRE 2 escaped sas caught

agaln and sont

to Galory #19 viso ha sos ofsald to tall to

LOUdP E R EL Dioz • la La Cobando Prioon nou.

1n B11Ga1, Ello and hos brochor Moztalllan la prioos,

boch in Mical and lavolvod sich Alpha 06. They havo brochar fa Cubo, .

VIr111o PE RE 2 Dios, uno vas laopectos of tha prioona la Pinas dol Rio

c=2 In Camaguay.

20

---

## Page 36

14-00.000

•S Gonzales - wad infiltratod into the U.s.

Norto Latali A CillA DO - - aldo Inêslerated into ehet.s.

"pitchi" also infiltrated into the U.s.

fs).

lector FB ALL ESTER (M. Paget) - stool pigeon; ex-nember of:

BRAC and 26th of July Movement - also infiltrated

---

