# 104-10192-10135

## Page 1

104-10192-10135

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

lesser die 10 tae==

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

SECRET

MON"" AWAVE

• ROUTTNE

875740

ACTION

WH/SA 8

DOP, ADOP,

SOO 68,

CA 2, CAPEG, CA/PROP, CS/OPS, CI/IC 21 MIESLO

FI/INTe

RIAN. WH ZA VR. FILE.

RID/PS

AD/CL 2, AD/NE.:

RSE CRE T 24232421121

25

64 IN 2832

e DIR INFO

. 52 фг

O INTEL TYPIC

LANT BARR CITE WA TONIO A. 4:

DESTRO%

Micha

" SUPDATA, AMTEE-S WHO SPOKE WITH EMIL ERNST BEHRE ON 16 NOV 64 - 351.

LOCAL RUSODA OFFICE HAS EXTENSIVE FILE ON BEHRE, RELIABILITY

• QUESTIONABLE. RIDI INDEX. FILED: 24/23242.

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUBA

I suoss

POSSIGLE MISSION TO CUEA 3Y THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUEAIIA (JURE)

P 0018 16 1108 64

PADAS-UNITED STATES, MILI (21 NOV 64)

UFG 6254

SCORCE:

MICROFILMED

JAN 1 8 1965

* = MICRO. BER

CONPETENT AMEPICAN DESERVER AND YACHTSMAN WITH GOOD CONTACTS

FISHING CIRCLES, THIS INFIBMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM EMIL ERNST. BENRE.

I COMMENT:

NO DIBBENINATION OF THE ATTACHICO

TO PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BIDEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE

AGENCY PENDING

RELEASE PY THE ACTION UNIT.

Y

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SECRET

N81389 MS:

TOCS

TACUTINE

BASED ONG:

WAISON

PRIORITY

14-300.-4

•ARRATO 351-464

DOW

DECL

-PROHITED.

199.

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

• Disroor Li so ma

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO,

R

C

LACE

LATE ACC

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL

SUBJECT

TDCS

DISTR

R

RED :

FIELD REPORT NO.

IN

29832

AFlarida, 4SH.

1 1. ON 16 NJU 64 EMIL ERNST BEHRE, AN AMERICAN "SOLDIER.....

Cube late N00:04

¿OF FORTUNE", SAID THAT THE JUNTA REVOLUEIONARIA CUBANA. (JURE,

O CUDAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA), A CUBAN EXILE GROUP WHICH MEETS AT

Y THE TOLEDO RESTAURANT, 284 BISCAYNE BOULEVARD, MIAMI, WAS

PLANNING A SMALL OPERATION TO CUBA WITHIN THE NEXT WEEK. BEHRE

SAID THERE WAS A GOOD POSSIBILITY THAT HE HOULO ACCOMPANY THE

MISSION AS A PHOTOGRAPHER.. HE SAID THE LEADER OF THE GROUP IS

"ALEX", OWNER OF THE TOLEDO RESTAURANT. (FIELO COMMENT:

ali: hair Flee Lists.

P"ALEX" IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL TO ALER AIXALA PERTIERRA, CO-OWNER PULA,,

COF THE TOLEDO_ RESTAURANT ANO ALSO DESCRIBEC AS OWNER OF THE

yo

• Live true

CONFIDENTIAL

SPARE/INA DIA ARMY/AESA NAVY AIR SS SECOLA NIA MIE AID VELA OCI ONE-OCR OER: 00

19-356-4

1014 | 389

- 15/1:CWS

RI COPY

RI COPY

1351

---

## Page 3

IN 29832

PAGE 2

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCA

• Fies.

INTERNATIONAL BOAT AND YACHT, BUILDERS, TNE., 282 SW NORTH RIVER

JRN Y

DRIVE, MIAMI. A 27-F00T CATANARAN, CT 1288 D, REGISTERED TO

THIS FIRM, WAS INVOLVSO IN MANUEL RAY RIVERO'S ABORTIVE ATTEMPT

TO REACH CUBA IN JUNE 64.J

2. ACCORDING TO BEHRE, JURE HAS SEVERAL BOATS AT ITS, DISPOSAL,

AND USES THE INTERNATIONAL: BOAT AND YACHT EUILDERS, ING, AS A

FRONT FOR ITS ACTIVITIES. WHILE THE PAPER OWNER ANO DiRECTOR

OF THE FIRM IS LUIS'ECHENIQUE, AÏXAL'' ACTUALLY ISSUES ME ORDERS.

AMONG THE BOATS OWNED BY AIXALA IS A 27-FOOT FIVE-INCH CATAMARAN

POWEREO BY TWIN ¡RO-HORSE POWER VOLVO ENGINES, BEARING REQISTRATION

FL 4115 FO (FIELO COMMENTS THIS CATAMARAN IS BELIEVED TO BE

IDENTICAL TO THE CATAMARAN WHICH CARRIED REGISTRATION CT -1288 D

MENTIONED: IN PARA 10) THE FL-4115 F WAS LENT TO BEHRE BY AIXALA

TO SE USED AT HIS DISCRETION, AIXALA SAIO THE BOAT WAS TOO HOT

TO BE USED FOR OPERATIONS AT THE MOMENT. ECHRE SAID THAT JURE

ALSO HAS A BLACK 16-FONT BOSTON WHALER WITH TWIN 18-HORSE POWER

MERCURY OUTBOARD ENGINES WHICH WAS BEING CONCEALED IN AN

UNIDENTIFIED GARAGE IN HIALEAH.

3. AIXALA TOLO BEHRE THAT HE HAS COMPLETE ACCESS TO C-COMPOUND

EXPLOSIVES AND USES IT ON "MISSIONS."

4. FIELD DISSEME CINCLANT, CINGSO, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI

REPS OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, LENS, AND USCO.

CONFIDENTIAL

(END OF MESSAGE)

---

