# 104-10234-10029

## Page 1

104-10234-10029

wilt :

WE/S

6393

DATE: 7 MARCHT 1966

BELIE FORK

made.

TA-COPIES 22

NS SECRET.

C INDEX

O 4O INDEE

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

or Cantain

AO.

Dire

& FI

TAR-

FROM: DIRECTOR

PRIORITY

DESENGIZED

REF

INFO

CITE DIR

85730

17382 (IN 69459)

35221

FIDi, FOZE IS KIO FOS SENT TO STATE DEPT ON 7 MARCH:

"VITH REFERENCE TO THE HABANA PRENSA LATINA NEWS RELEASE

OF & MARCH 1966, ALLEGING CIA INVOLVEMENT WITH ROLANDO CUBELA -

"SECADES AND RAMON TOMAS GUIN DIAZ IN COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

* THE FOLLOWING OUTLINES THE AGENCY'S CONTACT WITH THESE THO PERSONS.

-'"GUIN WAS RECRUITED BY A CIA AGENT IN AUGUST 1963 INSIDE

CUBA AS A PRIXCIPAL AGENT TO RECUIT HIGH LEVEL MILITARY LEADERS.

HE HAS HAD NO CONTACT WITH CIA STAFF PERSONNEL.

"CUBELA, THE MORE IMPORTANT OF THE THO HEN, HAS BEEN IN

CONTACT WITH THIS AGENCY DURING THE PERIOD 1961-1965. THE LAST

AGENCY CONTACT WITH CUBELA WAS IN FEBRUARY 1965. HE HAS HAD DIRECT

CONTACT WITH SEVERAL AGENCY OFFICIALS AND, IN ADDITION, IS KNOWI

TO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH CUBAN EXILES, INCLUDING MANUEL ARTINE.

CIA'S CONTACT AND RELATIONSHIP WITH BOTH CUBELA AND GUIN WAS FOR

THIS EXPRESS PURPOSE OF USING THEN TO COLLECT INTELLIGENCE ON

MILITARY ACTIVITIES AND OBJBCTIVES IN CUBA. JHE AGENCY WAS NOT

INVOLVED TITT BITHER OF THESE INO MEN IN A PLOT TO ASSASSINATE

FIDEL CASTRO, AS CLAIMED IN TO PRENSA LATINA NEWS RELEASE,

NOR

6

SECRET

Ambank - 1

PROQUCTION BY OINER

THE SUING

ICE IS

PROMISITIO.

Come n

---

## Page 2

MESSAGE FOR!!

TOTAL CODIES:

SECRET

ORIG :

UNT?

DIT 1

DATE :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF A

D MOES

O NO INDEX

D FILE IN CS FILENO.

4

QXXXXXXN/XXXXXXXXXXXXX28X

ROUTING

5

7

8

PAGE 2

DEOS VA, FILE DO RID COPY

INFO

•. DID IT EVER ENCOURAGE EITHER OF THESE THO PERSONS TO ATTEPT

SUCH AN ACT.

"MR. JAMES NOEL, KENTIONED IN THE PRESS RELEASE, IS A

CIA OFFICIAL STATIONED IN THE U.S. EMBASSY IN MADRID, SPAIN, AND

WAS IN CONTACT WITH BOTH ODON ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA AND JOSE LUIS

• GONZALEZ GALZARRETTA, AS NOTED IN THE PRESS RELEASE. THE PURPOSE

*..OF THIS CONTACT WAS LIMITED SPECIFICALLY TO OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE

MIFORMATION. THERE IS NO TRUTH TO THE ALLEGATION THAT CIA GAVE

$100,000 OR ANY OTHER SIZABLE SUM OF MONEY TO EITHER OF THESE

INDIVIDUALS.

Vit.

"THE AGRICY HAS ALSO HAD LIMITED DIRECT AND INDIRECT

CONTACT WITH JORGE ROBRENO, ALBERTO BLANCO RAMIREZ AND CARLOS

TAPEDINO, NOTED IN THE PRESS RELEASZ. AGAIN, THESE CONTACTS MERE

RRSTRICTED TO OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE. "

END OF MESSAGE

C/WE-5

ViRai

A/DD/P

hyphone

ВТОМО ОБРІСЕНЯ

BECRET

TI•M ST •T

THAN THE ISSUING O

AUTHANT/С

---

