# 104-10186-10251

## Page 1

104-10186-10251

INFORMATION FRORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

AWONGRERORTN

This matonal musatan informalha arneto the talhan Deleno de the l'arro diarra sitala the montus of sni laptoanao lama tile

19 l'BC sor 109 and ta the unnnina de retrialha de shan in nas manuet so do andulherled perora la prahibide by tam

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Cesar ALARCON fonseca

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS C1-316/01206-64

no separado ad

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. September

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOUICE GRADINOS. ARL DIFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS. TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer

Service until April 1964. i

who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serdes containiny personality

information provided

by the source and iricludes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

Individuals mentioned in the porsonality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

5

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 28 October 1959,

from a fairly rellable source

stated that the Cuban government was planning to purchase as

as 100 1iG-18's and included in the purchasing mission

were Cesar ALARCOS Fonseca, a Cuban aviation company pilot

and protege of Major Raul. CASTRO Ruz, and Captain Victor PINA

Cardodo, an officer of the Fuerzas dereas Pevolucionarias

(Cuban Revolutionary Air Force - FAR).

2. Another office of this Agency, in

a report dated April 1960,

reported

that Cesar ALARCON Fonseca received pilot training

about 1955 in Cuba for Cubana Airlines, but was considered

onlj an average pilot.

3.

On 8 August 1960, an extremely reliable source informed aufther

office of this Agency through a sensitive source that Cesar

ALARCON, newly appointed Chief of Operations of the Cubana

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

T DIA

ARAAY

I NAVY

INSA

REP

CINCLAST CINCSO E

I&NS

¡Nora. Frold diemiaution indoud by "=")

1

1X0X

.OC#

IFBI 2

INEORMATION REPORT

KINEORMATIONAREPORT

ICI'LIA

LIE

LLWASHEl

ALSACIA

TOTALE

WH/SA % (1),

RIDIA

WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

ILX --I877-X

42l.

NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

-CSCI 316/01206-64

¡COORDIALATIAL.

de sel

E PAISON

:swk

1. 992051

S/BR

---

## Page 2

4.

6 .

SECRET

1O FOREIG DISSEN

CSC1-310/01806-6r

= 2=

Arlines Office, International Airport, New York, 1s in fact the

ow resident arent for the Cuban Intollirence Service In the Ne

York area.

ALARCON 1s an old employce of the Cubana Airlines and

files as co-pilot.

ALARCON is a member of the Cuban Partido

Socialista Populur.

His address in New York City was the Contury

Hotel, Ill- West 16th Street.

in Habana®

The following biographic information on Cesar ALARCON Fonseca

was reoclyed from several sources during 1962:

about six feet tall, 185 pounds, is a mulatto with blond halr

Ho was describod as a dedicated Marsist and

Communist, a staunch Fidelista, and a personal side to both

Raul and Fidel CASTRO' He has boon described as the top

Communist in Cubana Airlines and very anti-United States. He

has also been described as being a Marxist and a Communist

for convenience rather than by conviction.

he reportedly left for Russie to attend a course in handling

Soviet civilian planes.

An untested source, in a report dated 13 February 1964, statec

that Cesar ALARCON

Fonscca, Chief of Operations for Cuban Alrline:

at the Rancho Boyeros Airport, 1s a Communist and very close to

Raul CASTRO.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

