# 104-10183-10141

## Page 1

104-10183-10141

ICLASSIFICATIÓN

TRANSMITT.

ORIG.

.Barbara

03 IDCS IMCORMATION REPORY 105

Brownksm

ROUTING

SECRET

Hox 55872-64

UNIT

WH/SA/Intel/Reparts

EXT.

5547

DATE

• November 1964

CONFIRMATION COFIES

itaön

TDCS -314/05080-64

WH/SA 11

INFORMATION COPIES

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6,

IW,

CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, NE 5, WH 9

PRECEDENCE

DATE DISTRIBUTED

5 November 1964

DISSEMINATION

1 WE/R

1 WH

1/ WE/3/R

21

WE/5/R

KE MADOI

152

16-7

X ROUTINE 1

20-4 BASED ON IRD. 8P%., P8OJ.1

SA/R

3 5A/SL

SA/Int

K SA/WAVE

SA/BOB (

SA/CI

2

_SA/SO/HH 1

SA HOB

EVALUATION

REQUESYED

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

I WAVE

77308--(1Y-16442)

22. 10FP}: 1185

SP (ANWHIP-L)

Lialson

1

ARMY

NAVY

AlR

YO FOREIGN DISSEY

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTRENTEATINE CTIIGIE

ZiABLAICATIN

"TECCADINATNO CHFTCIDI"

Mitasiso crlieio.

SECRET :

To# tol

a spoma→ 1 de dlstroteno varde oror togu nost

5/00

---

## Page 2

SECRET

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFO,

12 FUNEIGA DISSES

CENTRAL INTELLiO ENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

1 NOVEMBER 1964

TDCS -314/05080-64

DISTR.

5 NOVEMBER 1964

- SUBJECT -

CONTINUED EFFORTS OF THE CUBAN AMBASSADOR

TO FRANCE TO EFFECT A CUBAN-U.S. ACCORD

FRANCE, PARIS (2 NOVEMBER 1964)

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALS

REF

IN 16442

FELD REPORT NO. (OFF) 14485

A CUBAN BUSINESSVAN IN EXILE WHO TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY AND

HAS GOOD ACCESS TO CUBAN DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATIONS; FROM CARRILLO.

SOURCE'S REPORTING HAS BEEN LIMITED.

1. ANTONIO CARRILLO CARRERAS, CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE,

CONTINUES TO BE INTERESTED IN PURSUING POSSIBILITIES FOR IMPROVING

CUBAN-U.S. RELATIONS. HE HAS REMARKED THAT ONE OF THE CONCESSIONS

WHICH CUBA COULD CONSIDER INVOLVES THE GUARASTFED PURCHASE BY THE

U.S. OF ONE MILLION TONS OF CUBAN SUGAR ANSCALLY. CUBA WOLLD BE

PREPARED TO APPLY APPROXIMATELY 20 PER CENT. OF THE PROCEEDS TO

INDENNIFY U.S. COMPANIES NIOSE PROPERTY HAS BEES EXPROPRIATED BY

THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT. PAN AMERICAN FLIGHTS TO CUBA, WHICH CARRILLO

CLAIMS WERE NOT ENDED BY CUBA, COULD' BE RESUSED. SABOTAGE EFFORTS

BY THE U.S., "SUCH AS THOSE DIRECTED AGAINST TRUCKS WHICH RECENTLY

REACHED CUBA, " NOULD, HAVE TO CEASE. :

2. HEADQUARTERS CONVEST: CARRILLO 'S ATTENPIS TO ARRANGE A

SECRET

STARE ORESRTCLAST

NO FURRIAD DISSEM

ErO

Vpo

---

## Page 3

14-00000.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMIRATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -314/05080-

64

IN

16442

PAGE

2

"to-

RELIABLE SOURCES HAVE INDICATED THAT THE EFFORTS ARE INDEPENDENT

ACTION ON HIS PART, WITHOUT THE AUTHORIZATION OF THE CUBAN

GOVERNMENT.

3. FIELD DISSEM: ANBASSADOR BOHLEN, STATE; CINCLANT, CINCSO. I

END OF MESSAGE

so: +-8-7-8-55-7149s eids

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• 18 80 00 48

for is me

---

