# 104-10273-10313

## Page 1

1104-10273-10313 e

NURSER

NEW DOCUNENT RECORR

1

EP'E. 09

O02018

0351D01018

Instructions for Divisions end Stolls:

1. Fill in ond Sign on line 11.

2. Use back of for for ony additional commenis.

7

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION /Circle il eppropriatel 130 CHARACTERSI

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

FORM

2.

LETTER

AIRCRAM

WitH ATTACHMENTS: - SANiTizeRsioN

11

Jur

176

FROM/ORIGINATOR IJ0 CHARACTERSI

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERSI

3

Jerry G. Brown

stiaf, Secureim Amarysis

CLASS

me Seconiry Analysis bRoug

210u0

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

4

S

5

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

GrAND PATiCK Hemming, SF #429-229

6

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

A

DATE

OF

REVIEW

DAY

14

z0

MONTH

YEAR

86

JAN84

Determinations:

7

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)-

DEFER DECISION TO I SO CHARACTERS: COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

_ F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

9

SOIA

04 Đ5 B6 07C

11 K1

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

E.0. 12356

10

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5.

Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7.

Location

8. Location of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.

Name for

employee S

10.

File number S

11.

Pseudonym

12.

Cryptonym

13.

Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an FBI agent

15.

FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17.

Does not pertain to request

He need to

coord a refer

to 0S. Do

quites pezun

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(x) (1)

(3)(1)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(3) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

S

REMARKS IIF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVEI (40 CHARACTERS)

11

-P7

(A)

SIGNATURE/OFFICE OF DO COMPONENTREWEMM^OFF+ES

REMARKS (160 CHARACTERS)

See notes an t$00643

11 HSCA Box, #19 SANiTiZeR. SecuRiTy fir GUAD P. Henni

DUP SEE DOC NO, 977,978,4234

This Form es Unclasseled Unless The Classification is Chardo

end The Informarion below is complered.

ATT: IN 944357

CL BY

DECI DADA

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

POUTING ANO RECORD SHEST

5: 200-004191

HENNING, Gerald Patrick

ferry 6.

Brokn

P. pui! Chi.

Security Analysis Group

NO.

JATE

RECEIVED

MORMAPO:D

4400

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

429 229

11 June 1976

'OHMENTS (Number sach commp: 19 1990 10ge who

to whom.

Dage a line 001338 Column 1%40 ques 8ampant

1! 3.46

LOPS/PSI

1: 10)2°

3:

¿..

5.

LyDAD

Bive tole

PLISAG

16/21126

15.

11

12.

із.

530367

, NON-REC DOC

CONFIDESTIAL

INTERN,IL

Us: N9il

LA SIFICATION REVIEW EQ 1231

ONDUCTED ON 3fRLO

CL REVIEW BY - 0109294

O DECL O DOWNGR TO -

REVW ON - DADR

CITATION.

1:CL.135173

FULL TEXT COPY - DU NUT RELEASE

DÜI0/P

---

## Page 3

13-00000

11 June 1976

MENORANDUN FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HEMMING,

Gerald

Patrick

SF#429

229

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

was referred to the writer,

who is holding the HENNING

Icontacted the writer,

•advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from the

Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

I was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald. Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JNWAVE

to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the

Station.

provided the writer with a cop! of the cable

(IN 944357,

dated & June 1976),

which is attached.

In substance, the cable reflects that

•JIca o June 1970 a Guatemalan source

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD,

_Station

a written report, and a detailed bricfing,

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

"Colle" LeMen Satie tehe cuitenada

of an attack

was of the major claspiragust 1975

upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZINERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

3. According to the report, the National Liberatio

jovement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot

and ZINERI in turn was involved with two Amcricans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMIYG. The HENNING brothers

were flown to Guatemala in

assiste ZINERT in acquiring small aircraft:

among other things;

The report also

claims that LIMitRI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and Nel: Orleans.

E2 IMPDET

C1. BY 00509:

OClO18

---

## Page 4

13-00000

NOTI:: The

istasion also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

• on 8 Juno.

said thai he

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan governnent for the past six months of

50.

He clained that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard

service

in Mianl.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatomalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZINERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatomala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry

firearms, as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?.

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZINERI or Robert HEMMING.

7.

From the name, physical description,

activity,

and

alleged

employment, it is apparent that Gerald

Patrick HELMIN

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, Who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is a notorions mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private

investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miani, Florida.

2

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Gorald Patrick HEMMING is well known

to this Agins;,

the Office of Security Niami Field Office, and

In claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his servis

to the Druy Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMINC

is a long-time cohurt of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFL353 459),

• aka:

Frank FIORINT

of Watergate notoriety

long-time record of falsely claiming Agency

who also has "

the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thercafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he naned the International

Anti-Conmunist Brigade:

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) wis

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum,

to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Jun?

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNt, i;

and an extract tron a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in America--The CIA and the

Assassination of John F.

book Coup d'etat

Is a diatrine against the Agency

attempts to link the Agency

Kith the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GAKRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetrition

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did

so after Gerald Patrick

HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Diggity Chie:

Sccurity Analysis Group

Atts

---

## Page 6

13-00000

fin direct

-!?

SECRET

Send : 302'70

799i.

STATE PIRE

BEEZICE

Filf

=

T 931j95

911768

PAGE 01

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

STAFF

844357

3 5

CITE

5322207 JUN 76

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

REFS: f.

B.

(1N1 937052)

NOT SENT

(IN 890567).

1.

PASSED (STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND NADE

ERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOHLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

NREF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND

NATIONAL

IBERATION MOVEMENT (MLND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

IMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75S

N PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

UT iS SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LISE

ATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

EPORT AND

CLAIN THAT THO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AMO

SCALE PATRICK HEMING INO STATION TRACESS, WERE ALSO

VOLVED WITH ZINERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISYED HIM IN

COUTRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 9O GUATEMALA

-LEGÄLLY IN SHALL AIRCRAFT, REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 658 REQUESTS

• LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLONS:

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SCC DISSI: 0Y.

DCH.

M'UNIT NUTTIEU.

CE COPY FRUEPELOTIEO

IN UNIT

RF. FILE.

JOTAL COPIS

SECRET

Flig

DrFICE

STAFF

VR

ON 4

T

F

981395

E14Ÿ67

PAGE 82

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

A. IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREÄTMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PUÁCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-FOSSILE USE- IN

GUATEMALA...

• Do REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HERMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY RESUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA.

• SAYS HE LEFT GUATENALA ILLES:ILY

BUT MARIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS .

EXPIRED AND FE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2.

3.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

IC EG.l M.pnmiipiu.

nifmado:

COFT ISUDHLOITEN

UidiT

FiF . FILE

931395

E? A"÷7

IOPALCORES-

SECRET

__?-

-_.M.

--_ar-

VR :

PAGE 03

TOR:032242Z JUN 76

nauea crae.

28.01:8510 THAN

ISSUI0k:

-ACE IS PROMibIEO

ISTAFF

IN: 949557

---

## Page 9

13-00000

'. 1

CONG alTA!

SECRET

CHLY

MOUTING ANO RECORD SHEST

MENING,

•erro G. Brotn

Socurity Analysis Group

Gorald Patrick

EXTENSION

•T NO

4400

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

1.3.10

tj6ps/p51

JATE

RECEITÃO

FORWARDED.

il de 26.9310

1th 10p0 5

to thor.

429 229

11 June 1976

Degue a line across coisma r-ree 9-15a 6971p9t.l

?.

sale 6

T5.

11.

F2.

із

CONFIDERTIAL

IS: OLI

001018

---

## Page 10

13-00000

11 June 1976

MENORINDUN LOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HENMING,

Gerald Patrick

SF# 429

229

On I June 1969

contacted Staff and

Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING

/contacted the writer,

advised that ha

is the action officer for a cable from

Station

an assassination plot

on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

to the below-mentioned

cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the

Station.

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached.

In substance, the cable reflects

carca & June 1970 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the

Station •

a written report, and a detailed briefing,

concerning a plot.

to assassinate

President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

as a result

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZINERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

3. According to the report, the National Liberation

Novoment, was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERl in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HENNING brothers

scisteu LIMERl in acquiring arns

among other things, which

vere flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZINERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

o..is."

E2 IMPORT

CL BY 005991

CC08

---

## Page 11

13-00000

NOTE: The

Station also included

information the

Chief of Station had received

fron

Oll

8 June.

said thai ho

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatchalan governnent for the past six months or

So.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who

runs a guard

service

in Ninmi.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as

about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial

treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms,

as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZINERI or Robert HEMMING.

•29 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

tho is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and tho

of day 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no

record) in

liani, Florida.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is woll known to this Agons;,

lind claimed Agency affiliation when

noble or fest an isle in ace there amer

sonians vicasions since

none.

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING clained such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HIMMINC

is a long-time cohurt of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFI353 459),

Frank PIORINI,

of Watergate notoriety who

also has a

long-time record of falsely

claiming Agency

the late 1950's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Conmunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigado"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) wis

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HErMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Jun:

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, .Ti.;

and an extract from a book published in carly 1976 written b)

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

book Coup d'ota

i" Anerica--The CIA and the Assassination of John F. Kenned

is a diatrine against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugone

HALL. Loran Eugene HALL Was a-member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members

of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting

that he did

so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING anc

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN,

joined GARRISON's investigation.

Brown

Security Analysis Group

Atts

---

## Page 13

13-00000

is air is

For comes ca Smar

SECRET

120270

STAFF!

NICE

FiLF

931395

=11:61

PAGE D1

TOR: 0822423 JUN 76

ECH ET DE22ÕE JUN TO STAFF

1: 944357

ITE

O: PRIDRITY DIRECTOR INFO

EFS: A.

B.

(1N 937052)

NOT SENTO

(IN 890367).

1.

PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND NADE

ERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

1 REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND

NATIONAL

BRATION MOVEMENT (MIND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

I MEN I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE AUGUST 75S

I PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

T 55 SEPTEMBER 75 OUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LISE

TE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

PORT AND

CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

SALE PATRICK HEM MIMG INDESTATION TRACESS, HERE ALSO

VOLVED WITH ZINERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

QUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN TO GUATEMALA

LEGALLY IN SHALL AIRCRAFT.. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 15) REQUESTS

LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SIC DISSI: EY

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REFRDDUCTION

SUING

STAFF

SE COPY FEMESLOTTED

IN UNIT

RF . FILE

VR

9813?5

E1 47 67

PAGE 32

TOR: 8822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

A• IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS FUÄCHASE ARMS

AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATErALA...

Do REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD KERMING.

•E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA.

SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESALLY

-

BUT iRRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND FE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2

---

## Page 15

LE26E6 N1

! si

--------

JINIS.

504-3

SD. 30Vd

-IV----17--

19.713

273 • 18

2:8al

1HOT505S 103

Cogs: gla

--, 8-=---101991

00000-&L

---

