# 104-10301-10010

## Page 1

104-10301-10010

[Significant]

BICRET

with a limited mmber of people. We belleve the direction of the

station 10 of high caliber, but not all the station effort 18

carefully directed at pelority targets. Under oursent personnel

cellins, there 18 little hope of terenning the naporer avall-

able for thin eritical effort. Til, both Hendquarters and the

station must carefully place emphasis on aalgut of priorttie

and upon selective execution of the sctivitien to met thoue

priorities

Organisation for Operations

5o. The Noxleo Olty Station apronches the elassie type utation

In opportunities and in operations. It has high-levell

operations, unilateral operutions, joint operation with the hot

Saterite, Cubang and Indigenous Communiat

V.S, agencle, the Btate Department, the Federal Hufèm of Invest1.-

gation, the Ingration and laturalisation Service and the uilitary.

To secomplih this wide range of tasks, the station in organised

Into the soviet Branch, Cuban Brunch, Satellite Branch, Covert

Action Branch, Coumnut Party Branch, and an operational catch-all

which In called the "Operationel Bupport Branch." This latter

branch 1u hended by « ventor operution officer who has tro assiut.

anto, but the branch In reality l0 an extension of the chiet of

station's personal olndentine empabilities, elving force and.

effect to that facet of the chief of station's personality as an

operator. The dejuty chief of station, in uddition to hia admin

Intrativo duties, aluo personally handles the operations of three

project.

uDon

operationg

6. Manico City la the only direct str lInk thich Cube ban

with the Western Henimphere. It In the mfor tranait point for

all air travel to and from Oubt.

Approxintely 150 perions per

week travel each vay to and Irom Havana via Nerdco City. Tim

fact plays a prime role in shaping the station's operational activi

ties.

vor example, over to per cent of the station'e I reporting

on Cuban activities In this past yeer dealt with travely both alban

and nor Cuban, between Marico City and Hern.

SECRET

It 3

---

## Page 2

13-00000

the Beviet he

lo ghato, atyuient, ind maso operations as well

no on moan 01

24

98

SECRET

ay

24

---

## Page 3

13-00000

opens

24

98

BECRET

tial effort to respondins to regaeste for mayport from other

stations, cale ly SHAVE, with intolvement 11 Cubea operations.

the rolative effort whica mat de devoted to the surport of Cuban

operatton eriednting in other CIA statsons. The Culen case

offloer in Mentoo City feel that the requiremuta to Keep abrenat

ot day to day activities ma to handle the volume of paper lest

Insufflelent time for planning and develoguent of an effective

station._operational..ro

22, Operations are being conducted againat the Cubar Sabany,

and the remlt, unile lindted, are as satiaractory me may be i

poeted in vies a the targit diven ladeo GaTtutele Loca

Cion entride the only dinert air Link to Duba, Core mocees elould

be achiered 13 (recrulting agente 1a place 1n Caba?

This target

bos been aerigned en Pelenty I to mom Latin Antrean countrtem

and, 11 1t 18 to be achleved ut all, 1t 18 loglenl to expect that

1E 111l be dono 1a Merleo CIty.] o the extent posuible, tha Cuban

case officer should be treed tron the menive upport to othar

stattons no they can contrnte on this tanget. The Chief, Ma

Division, should direct other stations to carefully screas Cuban

suprirements en Madies C1t7, ulth a ten toura reduction of auct

requirements.

It is spconmended thats

Ho. 6T

The Chief, UN AlVIsions

A. Inotruet the Caled of Stations

to concentrute Cuban dane officer efforts on develop

ing agent anoets resident in Cubas and,

24

24

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

nately Mies sun for the services el a cutort 1s proportion to the

total to e to cool past so polo da cotto

It LIAT.

inded thats

П то

he Calal, Ill Division, aleaperore the propoes

I Chief of Station, Hurleo, sor Profest brune a

direot his to terminate operations in commertion

thereith.

18, The station has a highly mecental profest dirnoted et

the mural and peasent tenante. The painelpal neat 18 aL

through whose efforts on entenaire network of regional engend-

antsons have been establlabed Including youth prosps, eredit untons,

Mrloultural op ops and peasant untons.

It 101

mies thats

The Chlor, Ill Divlotos, empand Profoot ILlOON!

to snelado anslatance ta entabliahlag a silla

omert ection project targeted on goapent groups 1a

No. Th

Bertet Onerations

Mexico le one of the four Latin Averican countries which

mintain diplomatie relatsons with the sortet union theruby pen

witting the establtshment of diplomatie Installationn in these

-8 -

SECRET

IMI

---

## Page 5

13-00000

98

SECRET

24

countrie. (Because of the relative Inerrectiveness of

• Borer activities la Mesaco are not

mojerun to the sane scruting an thay are in the J.8 by the FaT

a4

and i Canada-by the foyn Cariten Hunted Follo.

ne1 In Meztoo than have a roedom of novent unici cilitaten the

camuet of clandestine optations targeted not only against the U.S.

but alno saint otber latin Americen comtries vhere there 18 no

Boviet offlesal presence. In alastion, Maloo'a long border wita

the Fed has only aintmu purde. Travel between the U.B. and

Muadoo in heavy and elandentine bardur crossing on be relatively

slople, The Boviet Inbany, In Merlos City, thereters, ansume more

then the aml Interent normlly attached to siulier Boriet 11-

stallations as targets for Val. Intelligence.

20. soviot operations conducted by the station are directed

24

primarily at thelperson as the enbasey. At the present time,

there ma fanty one aricers attached to the embere of won thirt

24

three have been identified am mbers of esther the mß or the dry.

It may be astumed that dependents and noniutelligence personnel,

by performing vartons support function, mall the total de those

engaged sa intelligener amiermenta In Its operations agatant the

sovlete, the station 18 hemlly dependent upon technical sallee.

Elon through relephone taps, inprographle compags of the embassy,

24

personne punes ou belephone convertion me persons outside t

manny, corplete photogrughle resort of the douing and going ol

24 I! persow, Soviet and son Soviet at the mbary, conterts of

eubessy personnel outesde the enorony, ete. Became of the ntriot

security Indoctrination of soviet ovurneos personel, the balt of

this Informtion La lorlovel and not dieserimble a pomitius 1n-

24

telligence: Its chiet value, aride Drom oecunton I Item of 1utalll- 24

Bance interest or operational sport, defiven fron Its/bopllution 24

In depth to reven? (patterual of activities and contacte, indleutive

of Inteligence (altitons or associalsons, an to dinators beherlorial,

austerintses of Individun! Bovieto which might se symptomsti

24

as a vulnerability to recruitment 7

an

• Into their soda operends in

assenting intelligence nigmute. Thin la Stealt 1a of volne

Tren a counterintelllene point of vies emn though explattation

agadnat Sovieta has been linted. Aleo, by calleting the mess of

collected data into personality reporte on persons atteched to tha

¡Ebanny, the station hope to be able to detect, foerer, and even

¡tually explost ary vulnerability to recruitsent os derection the

• 9 .

ECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

24

opost 02 ta tal ed 0000 the ory Delete the

the matson, the petery oblective of gecruiting a sovie

ecioner han not been achteved? Although the statiquio knolede

of soviet intolligence setivities centered about the hasty In

Mertoo CIty hen bose escatty fidened, It her led to lIttle ponitive

÷ 3

• 10.

SECRET

24

24

---

## Page 7

13-00000

BLORET

24

Das they maht affoot US.

Intereste:

while al the 1B. Bol diplotie minstons are targete

of vital importance for V.B. Intelligance, the sordet Inaney 1n

Moxico City has special alenificans boome of its prossmity to

the Voßo The Marleo Clay Station has attached thia targut with

determination and fungintion.

Ine Chief, da Dirtion, and hi

Il Minbls the Berlet nontlone 1

24

19062

di tha pretent let the repeat ode ee tael chenia

It probably the mut nignitiont contribution unter the

ens who vant for one renon or mother to entablich contact with

the Borlets, Through 1te techaloul] covurage of the soviet Inbagay, a4

Cao to so offlotal cores a conte a la Madoo City.

• 1.

-

ECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

DECAIS

98

08

24

shaleil, Operation.

vica are eat opte to i Some ta the toot a 24

nt (LINVOL), as vell as mislater I cudlo operation (LIPIAN), 24

The itation has been unginative in approechas to problems and

11211ne to exanine end experiment vith the unmal.

3a18 10 the communications Lips between the station and the prinel- 24

pal agent of WIDe, vaich will bo alacurred later:

The INVOY operation, previourly scotloros in Eannectic

Arcar considerablo diacueniono, the

operation v

proved, aroradanel

29,24

Wasted States. "Tate project 1a numed by Liplasted Mexicen Arie, 24

personnels to are onwiny scrames and pus he incenty veer

Equesos theis vulobstity to bribery other privilege mad te

the high emprit de corpo cemential to such an operation.

120 unit

18 manped by " cArper arent uno trendults the tabe resulariy to

the station by clandertine monos.

Thin project In been Trultsil

so intellinence reporta and has been of value in operational londo

and 1a/c/0z information. De profoot alno has a vimual nirmosa

Lance and a photo-surveillance cambility. It mun thie projes

which provided date on the actions of lon Harvey Omnald In 118

98

tIons, Therefore, the station her contimed 1t0 unilateral audio

• 16 -

ICRIT

RETURN TO GUS

Bockground Wor Only

Do Not Ropratuce

---

## Page 9

13-00000

00

CRET

C*

Balude routine travel Inforuation and CI/Cl

Inforintion from 10s nad Cs reportal and,

do lee the dablo chamel oniy for reporte that

an perimhable on me of specinl intelligne Interent.

Lentlon

netration

36. do in hin direction of operusions, the etter of station

ad teet a close sonal, da la go ste da to Sage le to

Push A leontlo as be unken does not 1minde the

monting of mi

anthortty to a mberdate. For smalle, althonel

the donuts bi

con delanted mthority ever thie Hertoty, Whel

wIll be lecunel in detail Inter, to mality the chiat cuntimes

dally notivitten which hive a urted effet en the Perletsy, The

utation has " mul, horterking suppert pention, bundling fla

etal and property mutter, and the nual fine commmientiona

pestion.

ST. Manle and huith vere emerully pood, attach for

eity ns modera no Maleo there 18 an ummal mount of mbionanl

8180rder knowa 1n Mextoo City so Monterun'» Revunge." Doe

ambony furnishes elegate melteino, and medicines are quartable

on the open serket, although not alreys to be trusted. One inci-

dent was recently uncovered in which sulfur un epiled end told

en atibiotie. Mdtonl Sellities hure recally boon soproved

by the opening of a mes hoepital uide meta Inited states stenderdo.

Pryatetons md man are vell trind of mute competent.

Inor an costal life In ecuerned, morale in the station ven

cellent. Merleo Chty alter non of the Minst nocini activities

et rutal, end vant esty pure, sem porte cotivitie are compara-

out for person on the diplomatia lot.

Chief of etition

other otation in the 10 Division. There dre nore then 9, 000 pm

SEE CERE

• 22 .

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

24

are assisting in some reduction of the personality files. The

Reglutry also handles the pouching. This task 10 aleo the largent

1n the Wi Division, partloularly In lateral pouching. On one occa

sion, it loadquartere request, Mexico City bundled the lateral

pouching to 85/atetions and bases of one document.

The problems of the Regtatry are compounded by the lack y

of trining provided permonnel antened to the logistry. Person-

nel problem in the legistry are my and diversified.

l, with the linted mber of persomel and the cuat burien of

vors, " large mount of overtime has been reguired. Secondly, 1t

has been linloult to det people to accegt an nantement to the

Medeo City Raglutry beomne the tanke are dall, tedious, and infi-

nitely demandins of the individunla' tine. The moralo in thie

section was poor.. We mide never recommation to the ohter of

station pointing out to him a conselentious effort mst be ide by

all members of the station to reduce the vorklonl in the Regiotry.

In this connuction, ve eserted that initridual enme offleer as

cept the responsibility for perlodie cloning of Miles thich they

uned, nd of watch they have the mut Intimte orledge: He

further recommended that maximm diucrinination be ued th determin

ing material which should be filed and that wherever jossible the

sheer bulk of the f1ling be redueed. He further recoumided that

overtime be mde voluntarily whenever possible, but that in any

event personnel be provided vith a full veekend off Mom time to

60. The chler of the legiutry 11 the only sentor permon a-

laned to the legintry and has no deputy of other purson competent

to tate his pinee during his temporry buence. The chlet at the

tIm of our Inspection had taken very 114t10 time off, Ineluding

reelande In the tro yur of hia tour. le ferl that one of the

ponitious in the leslutry should be re evaluated for ponsible upend-

1ng to 1noluden the dution of deputy enter of leglutry.

1$. 10 300

unded thatt

The Cuted, IN Divinion, requent the Director of

Faronnel to condiot & ruvie of the sunetion of

Deputy Chef, Restotry, Maloo City Station, to deter

ine whether or not such a position should be enteb.

To. 78

• 23.

SECRET

IMIZ

---

## Page 11

13$00000

BICKET

Glo We found the Higistsy to be a controrial mtter betren

Hendunter and the chief of station. the nonly masand deputy

chief of station, was parimrity had mpervinary reaponsibidity ever

the chief of legatio me ming a deterined eftort to redoe the

verilond la the Innintry and to sel mans of relatag upon Mendi

marter? Allen rather the station files, ve vere told pant on

several opension. lndgurters hid tenchod the point of demning

ablity to tastantly retrteve Informttom from their 81an0.

Lee knowy Omaid'n visite to the Onbon mel soviet States M

Meleo City-

Locate operation flavor cal Late proace and nona F 1o0e 2 4

tIl nome yuten to devined Por the (laformation/ to be pelekty ay

Homurer, we bollere thit a determined effort mt be in Honduarters

24

No. 19:

The Chief, WI Divisten, In ocluberation with the

Chief, Arcants Interntion Diviator, devion a nyuten

for retain the volane of files hid in hectoo city,

h12e matrtainteg e capabllity for reple setaeve

and tatare:

63. Marloo CIty In On of the iront metropolions of the world

and the decentag rochony of lenteo 10 reflectel in 1te beuning.

In artIleult to find boning unten compuren mectly with Unite

tates honing becme the punah tondition of sumne' merter

ung upnee, and grand entertnenment are a bunte may of 11f

merally quite good, not plentiful, but with peudent selection,

adequnte hoaning em de found within reasonmole sange of the

- 24.

83CHET

5M1S

---

