# 104-10331-10308

## Page 1

104-10331-10308

BRIEFING-Arp Offsite, 23-24 January 1995

Historical Review Group

I. Background

A. Established in 1992 by DCI as part of Openness Policy

- Part of Historical Review Program managed by CSI

- HR70-14 resulted from recommendations of Task Force

B. DCI Woolsey confirmed the Program before HPSCI, 1993

"Increased accessibility" to Cold War records

C. Collaborate with History Staff, Academic Coordinator

D. Purpose: Declassify certain categories of 30-year old

records, of historical value

- Topical approach used rather than systematic

- Briefed Excom in 1993

E. Kennedy Assassination records assigned to HRG

II. Releases

A. Mandatory:

- Kennedy Assassination records

- Foreign Relations of the United States series,

State Department

B. Voluntary:

1. Soviet National Intelligence Estimates (10 yrs old)

2. "Studies in Intelligence" articles

3. Covert actions (11 identified by DCI)

4. Other collections

C. Records Released:

1. JFK-Reviewed more than 325,000 pp (Sequestered,

Oswald 201)

Includes "163,000 pp microfilm print outs-72 reels

Released to NARA 217,000 pp

Third Agency (esp FBI), Hse Assntn Cmmttee, SSCI

HPSCI, Ford Library

- est. 100,000 pp

2. NIES-more than 400 estimates

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- Interagency mechanism

3 .

FRUS-5,700 in 1994 (4,700 in 1993)

- State Historian's views on covert action

4.

Other:

- Covert actions under review-Bay of Pigs, Guat.

- Top down approach

- History Source Collection-28,000 pp

- Raoul Wallenberg Collection- 1,500 pp

- Selected documents for conferences (Harvard,

Cuban Missile Crisis)

- Dulles History (700 pp)

- "Studies in Intelligence"

TOTAL RELEASES:

FY 1994-125, 000 pp

FY 1993-104,000 pp

E. Other factors

Ho on not no

Had planned to do "block review".

on Vietnam and

Korea DI and NIC publications

- On hold in view of E.0. 12356

III. All of this adds to already heavy work load of the IROs

and others in directorates

IV. JFK Board: Describe the Board

- Will review all redacted documents

V. HRG Review Process-next page

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CA Misterical Review Program

QUapoSE: TO RELEASE COLD WAR RecOND.

Of HISTONICAL VALUE

1) ORESIDENT Jche F. KEnnoy Assassinatia Recands.

REVIEWED MaNE THAN

425-000p9p-nt

C/A RECONDS. -

325,000

Thing ACERCy

100, 000

p2:

FEREICH

KELATIAS OFUS

10, 000 pages

3 Natl Intell ESTiNuATEr

SovieT UNica

4 RoL wallenberg Cellese

5

CONFERENCE RECANDS -

Missele erisis, etc.

6.

"STUDIES"

FOLA NOT AWNYS NEWT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

New Note (Personalized)

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

*30185

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

JOHN QUINONES

Sara S. Lucas

21 02 95 04:29:25 PM

DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW PRESENTATION

1: THE HISTORICAL REVIEW GROUP, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE, IS

PREPARED TO HELP SUPPORT THIS EFFORT. WE PROPOSE A DISPLAY OF THE COVERS OF

SEVEN STUDIES, HANDOUTS OF ANOTHER THREE, AND SOME SORT OF GRAPHIC/HANDOUT

ON THE VOLUME OF MATERIAL REVIEWED.

2. WE WILL, OF COURSE, NEED SOME HELP ON THE GRAPHICS -. SINCE WE HAVE NO

CAPABILITY HERE OTHER THAN FOLKS WHO HAVE NICE HANDWRITING.

3. AS TIME PERMITS, PLEASE PROVIDE GUIDANCE ON WHERE TO BE WHEN, AND A

POC FOR GRAPHICS ASSISTANCE.

THANKS, SARA LUCAS

x30185

CC:

BRIAN LATELL

JOHN PEREIRA

BARRY HARRELSON

New Note (Personalized)

---

