# 104-10247-10083

## Page 1

*104-10247-10083

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

GO INT

SECRET

•O'BE IN OS FILE NO.

ORIG :

NF.STOF

UNIT:. WH/SA/SO/iS

8. 7167

SATE: LI JUSE 2064

• TO I JHHAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

DEFERRE?

PRIORITIE

INFO

CIrE DE 27 835

RYBAT TYPIC YOBITE AMASH

REE:

"A.

DIR: 24886

WAVE 7201

(IN 95445)

HAVE 7359

IN

97739)

D. PARI 3930

(IN 74775)

1, LETTERS PARA 3 REP A RECEIVED FROM PARIS, UNFORTUNATELY IT

APPEARS AMLASH/1 USED ANTRUNX/10'S SW SYSTEM FOR MESSAGES ONE AND

THO THEREFORE INABLE DEVELOP. WILL ASK AMLASH/1 SEND MSGS ONE AND

THO AGAIN. PLS ADVISE NUMBER AMTRUNK/1O SW SYSTEM.

2. FOLLOWING ENGLISH TRANSLATION SU LETTER TO AMLASH/L:

"RECEIVED MSG #3, DEVELOPED PERFECILY. PLS SEND MSGS ONE AND TWO

AGAIN. ALL LETTERS ARRIVED AT INDICATED ADDRESS. SUBJECT (USTANU/S)

NOW KNOWS HE SHOULD PASS ALL LETTERS REGARDLESS MANNER RECEIVED.

CONCERNED WITH (UMSTAFU/9) AND HIS INDISCRETIONS. (AHIP/LALSO

SPOKE TO HIM ABOUT THIS MATTER, IN PUTURE LETTERS FROM (HI! A

AND SYLVIA (MUTUAL FRIEND OF AMIHIP/1, AMLASH/I, IND ERNESTINA) TO

EXE WILL CONTAIN SW, YOU SHOULD ALSO SEND SW MESSAGES IN LETTERS

TO THEM. AS YOUR SW SYSTEM AND FRAT OF RAMON (ARTRUNK/1O) ARE

COMPLETELY DIFTERENT USE ONLY SYSTEM NOW YOUR POSSESSION II LETTERS

TO(UNERAPU/9, AMWHIP/D), AND SYLVIAI. IF IT BECOMES NECESSARY FOR

C0G'BA9IВE

SECRET

REPRUDUCION DY CERER THAN INE IT TRO CARICE IS PROTES

PIRATI®

Cats tia

3/008

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

ORiG

1750 8A09

27167

D NO BRIDEX

DATE 1L TUNE 1964

•'D FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SEGRET

PAGE II

HOM, DIRECTOR

CONTA

INFO

TO.

1347

#OUTIESS

DEFERRED

X/ROUTINE

YOU TO CORNICATE THROUGH RAMONAS SISTEN, SERO TASTO487835

ONLY TO AODRESS PROVIDEO TO RAVION. (ALL RA INCLUDED HERE). W

SENT YOU A SECOND PACRAGE (ZORRO CACHE).: LAMON WILL RECEIVE RE-

COVERY INSTRUCIIONS. ADVISE WHEN PACKAGE IN YOUR POSSESSION.

WHAT YOU REQUESTED VIA "EL MAGON (AMLASH-2) (REF L) DOES NOX EXIST

AND IF IT DID THEY DO NOT RECOMMEND IT. ONLY (AMWHIP-1) IS IN

OPERATIONAL CONTACT WITH "EL MAGO», HE (EL MAGO) DOES NOT ISOW

AND SHOULD NOT KNUT ABOUT YOUR RILATIONSHIP WITH US:

SAME APPLIES

OTHER INDIVIDUALS. ADVISE US WHAT NOT PUBLISHED CONCERNING PERSONALI-

TIES INVOLVED MARCOS ROLRIGUEZ TRIAL ISPECIALLY REGÄRDING YOUR OWN

PERSONAL SECURITY. GOOD LUCK. VRITE."

KND OF MESSAGE

WA/SA/EOB

BRUCE B. CHEEVER

DC/hI/SA

1118881ВE SPORERS

A. MALONEY

L/ SA/MOB

10019198

SECRET

PITRONICIEH BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNTO CARICE IS FRONTE TES

---

