# 104-10071-10076

## Page 1

104-10071-10076

B.

10.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nơi Reproduce 778:25 86-

SECATY

30.

ROUTING AND RICORO

Ne lang

METABOTIONS: Office dealgnatione should bo sead in the "TO" column. Undor esch commont a line should bo drama asses altera

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in tha "TO" column.

Esch affleor should Instal (chost mart lassfitchert)

bofera lunter routing. This Routing end focord inat should be ratumid ta Regiotra 2a

RI

(ST52 406

BATT

ECOS

TO

SElY

DATE

FerD

1010

1399 29

28kg7

074278

EATIALO

11

12827

pAc

fE.

30/12

29 kan

R.R.0.

RRO

19 Me 13 May

1Y May IM

Is cour thet

40518-46868

wap 4 may 1953

I. A. D.

20

Bad

I8.

14.

76

ABS TRACT

DATI

526

IIDEY

785M. NO. 81-19

SECRET

8910

EPRODUSTIONS

---

## Page 2

14-0000

(5-3)

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET CONTROL

U.S. OFFICIALS ONLY

Pros:

19. 08 Pedan:

Distribuelon:

Ву сору во:

TaBa

Chros

VIROO (D)C

VITO

02

Soureo, Operational Data, cad Consondo:

Toch Calys

Orally 10:

Baterergon:

Il 10 doubtfal that kalolodo muld havo nado the ecuacuto roparded

horota 18 ha had ony idas that thay weald reson offlosal Arlesa

sho feat tae malode spabo es fantas to (oVEREILs 10

an indication of lie regard for (09B1013

It 10 regeontod that to atteahod repuro bo clvoa linitod d10

aribution to protons the lénutity os overans.

DUSTIONS

год a0.

1040

01.$#

SECRET CONTROL

U, S. OFFICIALS ONLY

RI COPY

8910

23 dtinar.5.3

(i:

1-526

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET CONTROL

U.S. OFFICIALS ONLY

23

Subjeet:

ReBarko by fugodlar 088101a1

Report No:

on Asarlode Pugoal au Relationa

(OST

406

Dato of lafornation: 25 Debruary 2939

Placo Acquired: Drienta

Dato doguired: 15, 18 Baroh 2959

Evaluation: B/6

Dato of Report: 0 A5818 1953

Sourco: An Anorioan mão 10 on frionaly torna with Yugoslav offiosale in

Par10®

1. Remarka Bada by sOrElo luciado, datina charga dissfairod ol tha Segoolar

Babassy, Pardo, ero cumarised balow.

Ferdiga, and in partioular, Anarican businsusan have lattlo prospset of

dollar exchange in Yugoslavia.

The drought in rugodevia In 1953 mao for

worca than had firot beon osticatods an a sonult, expenditures for laporte

of fooda othor than racessition havo boon drastically curtailed.

ragonlar leadoro oro sost ansious to obtain privato eradito fros abroad

and to attacot copital invoattanto to rigoulavia, "what rugoslara moda

10 sonay and dod forbid 18 tha Unitai Beatas doco not givo 18 to uoª.

rugoslavia do 1n e bed spot, end dia do bustnana abroad only 11 meno aro

found to finanoe ouch araco.

Yugoslar locdors aro concercod ovor tha prooposed of outs in lalted Brates

aid to rugoslavia binso plaches lu foraiga ald sppoar to ba en aspeat of

tha polloy of tho Elcontonor cdainlotration. The Unltad State will co8,

however, curd aid to Italy son that the influential le. Clairo Bootbared

10 cabaseador to that ocunty.

5.

The Liconhover Adainiotration 10 cospozed of adiliomiroo and reaotionar100.

Whon Matiedo mao told that a forzar labor loador 10 now a sasbor of tho

Meanboros cabinas, ha ropliad that influentlal lendara of tha resationary

Anarican Fodoration of Labor havo Liod up with a recationary econ-lotration.

It 10 zost aufortanato, latiodo deolarod, that tho son oceanietration 10

6.

Srajan Prica, lugoolar Astacoador to Franso, 10 sou convalocsing oftar

undargoing on operation. Malledo trplied that caring the operation

1t mao discoverod that Prica had treces of sona feralo organo.

thei was of entered to Realo

Classification

008 1080 01-88

(717-8-7-5261

---

