# 104-10413-10293

## Page 1

1104-10413-10293)

DISPATCH

Chiat, Vil Dirlatoo

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET / RYBAR

PROCESSING ACTION.

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DEST

CAN JUOGE INDEXING

INFO.

FROM

thier ne station, Marica City

SUBJECT

LIFE resus Report/Arsuete Serterbor, October 1063

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Bal: IN11- 22029

Action: For your inferties

The following

report in mibmitted in accordance with (sis 732-0,1

section T, paragrasa 2 (a) (1).

AN EXPLOTIUNNZON OF SEATS

LIERODE

(2) INTRA/ Caben

Is the source of the reporting rested latezar

covered two tasgeta of 1707t interest, Ca of those lines ma emaldamedi

protactive of operutionel lasag but wu temperarily etccontimid for operation

IOnIons. Covernsh of the second line mus terminated for Inet of producticu

The only lend produced Iron this Iina Was reporSEd On IS IAIA-22164 ITFEAR E

continued to cover to linas In comection with the AsTell oparstion The

Incinet ol tuts coverage 18 0l interest to Spoetnl Affairs Staff nil ASlAVE ai

the tobo 1s ferrarded vently to there customers. Rucently tals particular

coveraga has provided infamation of intorest on the rolationnhine ulthin the

felly of Fidel CASIno and the contiming datorioration of these rolationariy

Corerage of the hone phone of a Cuban officinl was instituted at the request

& Special Afrairs Staff officer to support the seattiva AYROD aparation.

SLIMERICK

INST contimed its coverage of the hose por

af two kaom dovlat intalligenca officera.

Product and use conties. as supa

1n referance. Coveraga of one of there Ilnos man discontimed during the ree

abanaco frol leades of one er thee targets. Inis coverage is now being re

Instatado

nIlair with the wife of another Pollah offlelal.

Sor further Diation setion in this case. Lifest ban Increased Ita coverago :

support of this posalble futmro rderuitment attorpto Also ta the Pollen fle:

Illel providad coverage ef a suspected Falisa 11legal residing 15 Maleo.

(cantinsed)

Distributien

- C/NED

CROSS REFERENCE TO

'***

A Chestral p

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

20064-22535

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

29 Horrenber: 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-6-30/3

---

## Page 2

13-000,00

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION.

TE /22347

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

2324-40036

(08 IIIN1/0000

Lira collutty in tota ana has beca liaisol

to ente 111110 el cuntloal varn iss tunni up on tilo 110a coam than big

sasino into of tatarcal.

(6) 50792132/29098

in maitten to tau

unanis in letti on tell as targut uniralo intertion on vario Sc

081161978.

he Inferention

hy that offies.

(0) 1099921H012 " LIN Cat el a tear cant st

la of intors to dor, landmasters and tho santos Cirls clatoes In diatso.

Tus ani the commuo ol a riatra 1120 cadie the intaransod entonna to mis

tola a cheat on the tons liza sonat's actiniates sotah me senions tha bout

interest de Fara

3 MOM NOTS EL IN

for the.

SEe BECHITY deation below.

Duping the reporting forlod model drug in frontied by Handukers fer

the trentan at a chula of LIsaS, Mata drug mas' nos avaltanta locally und

ITTy ses sout cratedal for the enolutinos of bla "preda" in obtuitas thie

material

Do B2ATe0

Ho changa tzon previoue raparta.

B 224123

of the

LIEUD-I'" altones to extend lin tomaticative colarion to corer cuyicroes

noners of LuTt nd sonnet return the manity trait to the IlerAs 1

mo eat on the horsday on stallation, myala de recal of baritel

Ids latter em un bo mally setated sinon 1t la sou apparent that in his retiria

mael thet ho cola prior to his rottmont Althoron the mak tobert tas

• late sspa opation can set i complatalo aliminated, it 1o pazt tack it

com bo testend to i sortable level.

Tarator Lurit w111 pot bure to men the mottouler rick of zonetabllan

the consis, It ma the seconanly conleted "jup" hoa no cocons son

to mother that alerted the taloghu cogny coor to choct tue top 13em 8900s

FORM

10-57 530

(40)

51-28, 51.28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

BREE/HER

CONTINUED'

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SORET/50/24T

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

FDO4A 22536 .

No chines tra provion raparto.

a, The coress provind by lIte airlas tas repartlar pertod totaled at

norarete 2100d. 1 soundem by tarat to aa follost

2o Almiranda do ENTICION

So. 1a,5 and Go Poltel Sobery and Canarelal 082908

7.

7. Be 8 a eat at teacho

20-

some of a Croch Intellige criteer

13

20l 12.

and 240

15

17.

1n8 I8.

and related 1470

Tand saladid 1170.

19

14.2t

David DERICKA

Dotag the reportins purol e sabas ol ramants: vure grujared by tas

Otation fes pataing so Zeal Chich and CRaWY brash is thale or in jart oa

ranthos, tho folling Els vose taoed on Ilust poridal Inferentia.

206 7574

EM 7746

EXE YO91

303-7723

300 2102

1054-7132

3254 1900

194752

13479

4Gn501-.04

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

_CONTINUEO

---

