# 104-10096-10112

## Page 1

104-10096-10112

CONFIDENTIAL

eview Staff: 75/666

INSPECTO? CINER.!

T905

75-2477 1-1-75

1 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT

: Possible Questionable Activity

1. Summary: In 1963 a CIA agent was used in

support of an FBI investigation of Jimmy Hoffa.

Paragraph 4 requests your advice.

2.

ephoned

Background: On 27 June Jim Angleton tel-

Walt Elder.

Dave Aaron of the SSC staff had

uncovered a staff

agent in New York who had been an

Agency Mafia penetration which Angleton said was made

on the authorization of Attorney General Robert F.

Kennedy in 1963.

The agent had tried to contact his

case officer but was unsuccessful and so had instead

contacted Angleton. Angleton had advised John Greaney,

Office of General Counsel.

Neither of them had thought

to notify Chief, Cl or Review Staff (Greaney later in-

dicated that he

thought the agent had retired):

Elder

then called Bill Miller to alert him to the sensitivity

of the issue, and especially to the possibility of Mafia

retribution against the agent. Miller noted this and

said that Pat Shea would be doing the questioning. Pat

Shea then called Elder and pointed out that he had talked

to the agent and had not learned about his current em-

ployment with CIA until the end of their conversation.

Shea placed his contact in the "non-abuse" category.

said he was summarizing his talk in an Eyes Only memo fox

Bill Miller. Shea planned to talk further with the agent.

04

3. I discussed the matter with John Greaney.

In

summary, he told me that the agent, Mario Brod,? in Feb-05

ruary 1963 had come into contact withHerbert Itkin,]who

had information about

links between the Chicago Teamster

Union and the Mafia.UBrod reported this to his case

officer,

and in a few days

the DDP (Helms) discussed

matter with Robert F. Kennedy because of Kennedy's re-

quirements for information on Hoffa and with Sam Papich

of the FBI. The FBI was enamored of LItkin's contacts

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

CONFIDENTIADO Not Reproduce

Glastied by 003717

Laompl tres general

doclassiliaiden schedule at E.O. 11652

excription art die 59 11. 177. C;

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

only are mentioned in pseudo. This book was brought to

the attention of the IG after a 9 June 1975 Time article

named certain Mafioso in connection with the CIA.

Breckinridgersald _that he had not seen the black book or

known of the Brod-Mafia link prior to June 1975 even

though there had been several Agency inquiries about

questionable activities and one specifically for all Agency

links with organized crime..

4.

I request your advice as to whether this is a

questionable activity and whether we should alert the

DCI, the White House, and the SSC.

Jerrold B. Brown

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2-

---

