# 104-10408-10351

## Page 1

1104-10408-10351

6: JOHN M. WHITTEN

1: C/WR3

: 5013

5: 4 DECEMBER 1963

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

O INDEX

SECRET

*NO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-287248 desar

12-82

ROUTING

4 DEC 63

17412

N:

IF:

DIRECTOR

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

DEPENREOGEN

authorized: DE

ROUTINE

DCI, D/DCI, ODP, c/CI, c/CI/SI, VR-

Stenad: - Hantan

PRIORNEY

INFO

86668

BARAT GPSLOOR

Note:

if dostruction,

cite

REF.

4319 *

reasons and coordinate

1f appropriate.

PIS SLUG ALI, TRAFFIC ON PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION ONLY AS ABOVE.

2. IO TRACES ON RIDUERSIRALE, OR ANDERSSON AND LEMBKE. STILL TRACING ABERO

AND ALBRECHT.

3"' IN FOLIONING UP THIS CASE, URAS

SO HANDLE AS TO AVOID TEMPTING

SUBJS TO REPEAI WHAT IS ALMOST CERIAINLY A FABRICATION OR A MILLION TO ONE

for FOlA Revlew on MAY 1976

COINCIDENCE: AT SAME TIME, GIVING OF VALID INPORMATION HUST NOT BE DISCOURAGED.

SUGGEST YOU INFORM ALERECHT THAT HIS FIRST INFORMATION, IF ACTUALLY TRUE,

IS OF GRAVE IMPORTAHCE AND COULD SERIOUSLY. COMPLICATE LIVES OF HIMSELF,

ABERG, AND RIDDERSIRALE AND INVOLVE ALL OF THEM IN MOST SEARCHING INVESTIGATTON

AND INTERBOGATION AND CROSS QUESTIONING BY

TAND ODOXIS AUTHORITIES: ASTS HIM

TO CHECK BACK AND SEE IF HE AND ABERG NOT MISTAKEN ABOUT DATES OR IF ABERG ROT

Document Number.

292-693

GIVEN TO MILD SOCIAL PREVARICATION. WHAT DOES

THINK OF ASKING OFFICIAL

261•289248

LEIP FROM

PLS DO NOT DO SO WITHOUT CHECKING HERE.

1 FYI ONLY, TRERE IS NO EVIDENCE OSHALD BACKED BY ANY POREIGN POWER, BUT SUC

CONNECTION STILI NOT ABSOLUTELY AND FINALLY RULED OUT. FURTHER, WE HAVE BEEN

-IMPDET CL B12L220

PLAGUED BY SHARM OF PABRICATORS WORLD-WIDE ON THIS CASE, EUT IN FINAL ANALYST

COPY

SORTING OUT LIES FROM GOOD TIPS IS

UP TO CASE OFFICERS, AID

SEEMS TO BE DOING

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

Euclided froca automalic

SECRET

downerating and

desloss.Scatien

AUTHENTICATIMO

' D-REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1978

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

---

## Page 2

13-00000

.. i

ORIG :

UNIT :

EXT :

DATE :

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:,

INFO &

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

12-62

ROUTING

• i.:

10

INFO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

Si

•30÷593

CITE DIR

8666811

HELE ON THIS CASE

END OF MESSAGE

C/S CONMENT: * (IN 71757).

Reported interview with Adolf Jay Albrecht.

fy suthority of

RICHARD HELMS

DIP

RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION

COORDINATING OFFICERS

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTI

OTTEEATING

Copy No

---

