# 104-10174-10070

## Page 1

104-10174-10070

MATERIAL REVIERED AT CLA HEADQUANTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COSMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MELBERS

FILE TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUME:

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

104

ROON:

DELETIONS,

IF

DATE

RECEIVED

28 JUL 1978

• DATE

RETURNED

1/28/18

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

Palmer

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Betry Palmei

NO DOCUNENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS PILE

SECRETA

THIS FOLDER IS NOTIO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF

SI/STAFF THE PEPSON CHARGED WITHSTHIS FOLDER

MUST NOTY CIONSOTO IMMEDIATELY, IF I IS

TRARSTERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN

CI/SIAN SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THIS

PROPER PERSON, AND SO THAT THE FOLDER CAN

BE RADIS LOCATED AT ANY THE AS NER CAN

MITREA

---

## Page 2

tadilu

14-00000

INCA HANI

.

SECRET

Fitte ing

APPROVA. MORA RECORD

SEGIMITY OSTILI FILE:BO.

SUSVEZI

0::!

CavP10+7#

9102

IN OVE CULT)

8 jul 58 ad

PEGREGA E

PSEUDONTA

dies

CHECK O INVESTIGUTIVE RECORD

Acredi

-blo

DATE

ISSUCO

CHECE C"

Date.

P.QiA

Alo in

TRACES

DeS

TR

ACTS

8.E11

RACE

iND

CÉS

C.5:A.

.c.S. A.

P.P. A

PROP.

APP

C.N2

5.0.

CAS ДОРІСС»

1262

1109

CCB/De

8187

SECRET

10-88

---

## Page 3

SECRET

1l July 1963

revier. of as request of 8 fily 1963 for Oporations

provolo on the bove Subjecte discloon that co 1 dug 1563 tia 00s

l Sonmity damied a Corre Decurity Approval Covart

Le to be understood, hoever, that infomation the Gifice of Securt

valled to Cl/01 be rites before he 10 uttlised in any capelt

blo intonation do article to you for reviet 1a cloa.

Sta

En Anericon altison restaing in the latted

ACin

---

## Page 4

UNCLASSIFIED

SLE: (O99

aCHot

O COMCDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FA SEGRET

No Memorandum

Da8 Juy 1963

WE/4/X

s jiies desigrarae, nooni mumdor, a

QA 7

wonte rorwines!

MMASS

C/WE/4

Chief, Gl

81N5

610"5 m0

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

iNTERILAL

USE ONLY

E UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 5

Li miss. =

8 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,. CI

SUBJECT:

Operational Approvals

Before he left to nssume hia duties

Junked that we check tato the Picecat status

of Operaba

al Aborovalo on Subjecta. A check of Ci/OA re-

vealed that one

exaited in 1958, and that there

had recently been one active

for CCS une

only

2.

It would be appreciated if DAs rould be given to

Subjecte so that

may be permitted to speak with

them at any time in the future should they visit his area. or in

the event that he secks to see them whenever he is in the United

Stared. Since it would be difficult to determine a time limit for

keeping such One active, it would be appreciated if they could

be given for an indeterminate period.

C/WD/4

---

## Page 6

SECRET

30 SETE 59

SUBJECT:

1. Refeneace lo made to your request to this office dated

720 50

2.Toe repty to your request is contained in the attached

andsh. fron the Office of Security dated.

Chiet, C1/CA

MICROFNMED

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

i Chles, GI/0A

FROM : Deputy

Diroctor of Security (Investiratlong

and Support)

DATE: 2 6 SCP 1959

file

SUBJECT: C-71976

#169102

1.

Referenco la made to jour rumurandun datod 9

July

1958 wherein a

covort security approval was requosted

to

permit subjoct's use undor Projact FINECALS.

On 16 Septomber 1958 a representative of the intor.

osted. Division advlood that

there was no longer any interase

in the Subjoct.

A memovundim to that ollect wit be sent

your offico in the nour future.

It is requested thata copy of the aforonentlonad

condoliation momorandun de. forvarded to this office for In-

corporation into Subjects rile.

FOR THE DIRECTOR CP SECURITY:

SECRET

---

## Page 8

•SECRET

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

Hocessite Siexion:

14 Sept sa

PENASE TARE THE RELEENO SOTAL CY THE CASE SE POSTA ARGUE.

Pesatat 800e

se deterlo).

C-31976

BET UP TOO:

pos trat

•ORD01 1000689 500

a1 nACEs

PINUIDI OPIRATIORAL A DIU. TRACES

Atacas gate prision

"aug (20o:

lees ig.g.

#rOULS? AOOITIONAL IDGRAPHiE iNFO

PALPARE CANCEULATION PORM-

BENO TO NICARCHIVAS.

ENTERO POA FOR.

DAYS UNTIL

ACQUEST OF SULTS-Or PECN. INTERROGATION

"VUEHN" MEMO. TO DIVISION

OTHER (S0o Ronardo)

SECRET

---

## Page 9

D UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

SE CALY

DO COr DEMARECRES SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM

Dall

1Q: lOne designation, run mumber, an

buildong):

WATE

BE CHIVID PORWARDID

16 Sertember 1958

OFFICER'S

INTIALS

to whom.

CI/OA

1402 "J" Bldg.

SEr 11B 4 0g PM 58

TE. 610 " SECRE PECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 10

SECRE)

16 Septester 1958

Due PORs: Deputy Dirantor of Berrit

]Investlation

and sippert drama

8. Cases, CI/DA

i CascalleLion or chesten

L Phle will confla

requesting the secarity elearance

carophone comersition

Do cancelled:

8. Ta Il Divlaton has laland this office tast it nill li

unaccoser to utilize

acrylons so a 'donor® to

SECRET

CAMELLED

Sir Tissd

COPY TO SECURITY

Bice

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

TO

FRON

SUBJECT :

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

Deputy Director of Security

Chief,

CT/Operstional Approval

and Suppunt Division

C• 74975

DaTe

PROJECT

* BUY 1958

PORSCAL

TYPE OF BLOVEST

ipo.

SACICES RESULTS REQUESTED Y

SO METHOD OF

Jessorse

FAI CARER "EQUESTED

aY (Date)

AREA OF SUBJECT'S ASSIMENT

EL/OPS/CCA/NOC

doner for Project MaRinALS

INVESTSGATIOM NOT TO NEULALE INTERINE ON

OVERNMENT

TIATED

0D.. АТАснМЕТ$.

Denise me..

693 USE

PREVIOUS EDITIÓNS

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SSIFIED

SUNECT: (Oenis)

FROM:

ERNAL;

ONLY

• CONFDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

NO

DATE

Caleie Central Cover Sr./IC

TO: (Officee donignition; noemi aumber, ind

wildingi-

DATE

CI/QA

1402 "." Bidg.

RẸ CẸ VÊD

FONWARDED

OFPICER'S

_1 July 1958

COMNENS o lro oct co cilama de e oo oo mho,

ndenao ở ng igio

49r30

38

61(0 45

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 13

SECRET

REQUES! FOR INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL

TO:.

Cl/Operat unal Approval and Samport

Division

-FROM:

SUBJECT

TRUE AME

EVOTORTM DR PSEUDONYM

TYPI OF AGINT ON EMPLOYEE

7-112

PROJECT

I July 1958

Ci/OR FILE

SO FILE NO.

USE OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE (Fell deceila)

To be used as a dono: for Project PAORSCALE.

3 L1 PH "58;

BRIORILL

TYPE ACTION REQUESTEC

APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

APPROvAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

GOVERNMENT MANE CHECK

PROPALETAAY APPROVAL

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO fiold inmaridation)

OTHER:

PRE AND GREEN LIST

STATUS

PRO I. OR EQUIVALENT.

IS ATTACHEO

0 11 1S ATTACHED.

IF, O. PAINABLE-!

• COPIÊS

FRÒ

WILL BE

FORWARdEN

WHEN RECEIVED

GREES LIST CHECK MAS BEEN INITIATED

FIELD

TRACES

PC.VEAL

NO INFORMATION OF

valet

INFDAMAT I ON

 STRACHOr

COVERSIMENY

COWMERCINL

BE FORiARDED THEN RECEIVED

ENOT INITIATED.

NOT EXPECTED TO POSSESS RELEVANT ONGO

SUGGESTED

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

ACADENIE

OTHER:

RI TRAGES

DIVISION TRACES

REÇORO

NO RECORD!

INDiORTE: SPECIAL GITATIONS ONY.

LAVESTIGATION DE SPICTAL COVERAGE DESIRED

No recoRd

FORE

• FES 5$

IS I CHATTER OF

SHANCH ONIEF.

8187.

SECRET.

пітусі.

---

## Page 14

Si 195

This requent origleated in OCa/ll rose files contala no sultan!

or derogatory informition..

It lo roquasted that non-offleial cover be utilized in conduetini

to clearance ilncu sub jhet la maure of U:S: Coverment and CL

Interest and of the impenting leettgation.

---

