# 104-10150-10064

## Page 1

104-10150-10064

/ ..

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 199*

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

TOP SINK

d532:

TS 78-0352/1

Cy #6Of 10.

-..

5 September 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR :

Director of Security (Attn: Ray Reardon)

Chief, CI Staff (Attn:

Chief, SE Division (Attr: Dale Sumption)

Chief, LA Division (Attn: Wm. Sturbitts)

PCS/LOC/DDO (Attn: Norbert Shepanek)

FROM

: S. D. Breckinridge

SUBJECT

: HSCA Request for Declassification of

Helms Transcripts

1.

The HSCA forwarded on 4 September 1978 a request

that the attached portions of transcripts from Mr. Helms'

testimony before Committee be declassified.

2. It is requested that you review this on a priority

basis, reporting back to this office those sections that

need

sanitization prior to declassification where you

have

a substantive interest. Where you have not addressed

problems please so signify.

As an example, AMLASH's true

name should be deleted and replaced by the crypt.

3. There clearly are

sections that will require

sanitization,

at least, prior to declassification; if

declassification is impossible (e.g. telephone and photo-

graphic coverage in Mexico City) please state the reason.

→2 Bull

S. D. Breckinridge

Attachments

Distribution:

#1

#2

D/Security

- Chief, CI

Staff

#3

Chief,

SE Division

#4

Chief,

LA Division

#5

PCS/ LOC/DDO

# 6

#7

OLC/Subject

OLC/Chrono

#8, 9, 10 - SD Breckinridge

This document may be

downgraded to SECRET

when detached from attachment

= 2 IMPDET CL BY 03190

22011

2/pV

---

