# 104-10222-10008

## Page 1

104-10222-10008

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

026090

SECTION A

GENERAL

29 Jun 1930

+.0 "

M

A. OF PICIAL FOBIPION CITAR

Operatlong Officor

•. CHECA INI TIPI OF APPOINTOENT

DDP WH 3

в. ĐỖ

GS-ll

D

A. CURRENTSTATION

Mexico Casy

NO PORT

AHIATO VIDICHAL

anatroctlane - Jection C)

XX

DATi REPORT DUE IN O.P.

SECTION B

30 Nasamber 1963

W • Hagh

IN, ARRONTINO PERIOD (PPE PU)

1. Ocruber 1962 = 30 Septomber 1963:

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

formance fángos from mholly inodoquero to slighily leno ition sorialoçrory. A retina in thia coreporg reguire!

positivo romediol octlon. The noruro of the action could rengo from counseling. to. further bolning, lo plating de

proborion, te roaostenment or lo separerion.

Describo oction roton on proposed ln Secrion C.

Perlomenco moste all requirementi.

«ucellenée.

lo lo entirely sallolostery avid la éharestirland neisher by delietonsy nos:

P. • Prolislent

S • Strona

0 • Questendina

Performance-le mere than sort alectory:

Porformance le chers

Desired résulro ore being produced in e profiélent mannoi.

cierled by enceptional prolleleney;

Peiformance le 60

**ceptione in roletion to requiremems of the mort ond in composison to she prilermonio of

ethors dolng similos work on to werrans ipeclol recognitión.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lio up to sia ol pho mose Imporioni apoclile durias perlamod dirIng.the roting.parlodä Insere rollne lettre chich best doccribos tha

which emplojoe performs EACH specifle duly.

mitreuporelog responeibilhies MUST be rored en thal obillig to superviso (indi

Considor ONL V'ellocriveross in performance ol: that duig.

numbos ol emplojens euperyledá).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO:

Complete rosponibility of a highly sensitive, unilateral

technical operation which involven supervlaion

agente, including

sonior (QS:13) career agent.

SPACIPIC DUTY.NO. 8

Supervisory responsibilily for a technical and investigating.

operation largoted primarily againet the local Soviet offichal delegation.

(Supervinion of Il agonte:)

DRECIRIE DUTY NO.S

Supervlaory responelbility for a unilateral investigation

and aurvelllance toum which lo eniployed on the majority of senbilive auaigno

mento for the Station.

DFBCIRIC DUTY NO. A

LETTF

B

Flold

support-for a nenultive continuing provocation

operation targeted againot the Cuban Government.

LETTEN

P

PECIFIC DUTY NO. B

Altornata (lo COS) cano officer lor a LAURICLE project ot

continuing Importance; alno ilternalo case officer for in Important technical

support projoci.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

Preparation of uncesary memoranda, dispatched, project

actiona and othor correspondonce altondant to the opcratione aenigned..

OVERALI, PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

jules, predestrity.

lee slatina es, ln his curreno so siston sush oo par.

connil dos jat, ecoparstire

pericolas laborasy is saiamo, Burat en.

ga28/a7

paus antonipego il caplainos domali pertarmance duriag

Seas e a11ng Bariad,

&I NOY BOL

P

5

SECRET

Đit

---

## Page 2

SECTION: C

ndleote algrifleand atrongets

omall parlormonco.

Stole

on loreign language compe

sppilsoble.

SECRET

FifteR feD

NAPRATIVE COMMENTS

•e demonorated In smont pooltles horring la propor coespectivo phole rolarlonehip t

molo to impruremont ol mort portormonce.

simo recommenduriona for troning

Commont

virod los everent position.

Amplily u oupleia rotingo gira in Sacrion 8 to povide deni

astor Manner ut performonce or manojorio a suparoteco dules muse bo doscribeda!

Subject's durice and roaponalbuldea involve management and superviaion

of sonie of shie Station's most successful and most senditive operationa. The

fact that Subject has responsibilities comparable lo any officer up to four grados

higher than his speake for the truot COS has in him and for hia continued

exceptonally proficiont performance.

Subject has adequate Spanduh; hle performance continues to be excellent

in evory sense. He is dedicated and a hard worker.

1618

recommended that Subjoct be prunosed to GS-12

1'..

Fir:

• *"

SECTION D

DATE

23 October 1963

MONTHI

HAPLOYEE

UHDAR MY'OUPERVISION

HAS BREN

43

DATE

23 October 1963

•Э.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWINO OPPICIAL

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYER

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIÓNS A, B. AND C OF TNIS REPORT

SIONATURE OF IMPLOYSE

/S/ Thomag J. Keenan

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT. BURN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE; DIVE EXPLANATION

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SURGHVISON

Chief of Station

BY REVIEWING OPPICIAL

TYPES OR PRINTED NAME AND SIONATURE

/S/ Winston Mo Scott

DATO

13N88

OFFICIAL TITLE'OF REVIETINO OFFICIAL

ETPED OR PHINTED NAME AND SONATURE

Misuse

SECRET

---

