# 104-10232-10004

## Page 1

110410232100041

Lunt

10 Ectobor 1961

MEMORANDUM FON THE RECORD

BUBJECT: Noellas with De. SilKe Cardona on 6 Celodor

1. De. Alili assivod abous 9:50 a,m. lor the mooting we had

sol at 10:00; agala no uas driven by hls seesotary whom he Inirodacod.

As during the liras mosting, obo romainod outoldo la tho car. Ou

meeting lassod wall 12:00 soon.

2. Firet, Dr. MIRO handed me a note in longland lating she

toples disenssed with me on 1 Celobor. These pointo are:

a. Groups conducilay propaganda, ole, with Agency support

should rocelre shals support nod ba coordlanted through the Council.

b. A propaganda campalan should bo waged by tho Council

alrood at:

(1) Cuba, vla a long wave radio slatlon in Koy soes.

(2) Cubans. In milami and otber U. S, arese by:

la) Subatdialas Diarto de las Americas.

(b) Contracting for timo on radlo stationa.

(3) Latlo America, wilh a plan such so the Oporacion

Orieta.

c. Enderground Activitieo.

(1) Ppovision of monthly funda to Counell fur procurtag

Cuban poacs to send to the soven-odif poslatance

n Cuba through sellablo charaole louch au

provloyaly dens through the

....i

17

---

## Page 2

SL GRET

(2) Commando action as outlined in plan presented

to mo on 6 Cetobor.

3. Commando Plan

Then Dr. MINO handed me a plas (lo Englia)) for clandestine.

action prepared by his milltary collaborators, whom he namod as

Colonol A'anual VAMELA Castro, an officer of lho Acadomy, Captain

Enrique DESPAIGNE, and Colonel (Inu) MONTBACUDO.

He orated

that they were of the BARQUIN group and had boon prisonere.

with reopoct to tho plan lor clandestine operationa in Cube,

ho stated that 300 Inon could bo counted upon for commando setion, part

of them here, part in Caba, Ho reiterated that a commando oporation

we essential to bolate: morale among the anti-Castro alamento In Cuba

and in exile an well as to conduct abotage that would lurthor weaken

Cuban economy and tho Communiat roglis. He and that for thie operation

U.S, help would be necessasy is providing weapons, ammo, deraolitione,

ogaipmoue, and funds. Ha proposed that li this plan was considered to

• havo morte, that I arrange to have someone moet with hie military mon

to work out the detalis.

After all preparationa had boen made and

materio! provided, sic, the operation would be purely a Cuban allait.

(NOTE: Man turned ores to Thonpson at our ne eting at 15:30 on

6 Octobar for tranemiaolod. y

4. Roquest for Ariao, olc. to send to Escarbrar

Dr.MIRO remarbod that over a month ago he had made a request

to Clark for armo for the anti-Castro losurgents In the Locambray, but

to date had heard nothiay relative to the request. He commented wryly,

"'I ank but novar hear an anawer." He gald that the fightore there should

he supported. Dr. MIRC stated that he had a boat (provided by un) and

a moane lor delivery of the arma. Osvaldo KAMIREZ la chief of the

Iscambray group. :

CUMMENT: Has anythlag boes done about this request?

S. Intormation on hema Received by Castro Realmo

Ur. NilHC handed me a lony repare which he sald was brought

to him by the Argentine Ambassador to Cuba when toe latter came to the

U. 3. al the time of Frooldent FRONDIle visit.* He sald the Ambassador

would not divulgo the source of the Inforinalloa bus commented, "You will

#Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.

E avi.

---

## Page 3

De. AIRO nald there was no way to determine the securacy

of the figuros given ol planes, gune, ote. received from the sover bloe

land Baly and Cansla) but even il the ligures soro oxaggeratod 100 per

coal, Choy would silll ba imprecaire.

lo added that Castro to dolly becoming otronger militart

Ith weapone and mith a largo militia of close to 300, 000 being traine

to me them ubile the econoray contaies to deteriorate. Forbaps only

hall the millila woald be offoctive.

Dut that da sizeable.

Thus, he said,

tha longor the dolay In poslive military acion to overthrow Castro, the

Greator will bo the task.

"Wo Inue scR doon, vlyoroualy and offectively.

80 Ineuro vielory, Anothor defeat would be disaatroud and could make

Cabano, inta Arnericans and othere belleve Caatro lo be invinciblo.

Then would come accommodatione and even vorss, the Implanting of

Castro-bachod ragtraos ln lhe hooslapbore. And the U.S. wold ouffer

woret of all, boing discradied for defoat and "guilt of interforenco."

''In tho UN no salion wouid stand boaldo tho U. 3."

6. Froposal that Council go to Cuba with Commando Group and

Eatablish & Govorament on fuban Soll

DI. MINO then declared that he was convinced that Castro

world never be overthrown ly all the propagando, tho sabotage, commando

raldo, quorrilla setivities, rupture of diplomalic relalions and docoriorating

ocoponry, and that 11 was inconceivable to establiab a governmont trorile

for nothing would e me of lt; that the only solution for defeating tho

Castro regimo was for the Rovulutiónary Council to go to Cuba and estab-

11ah a government on Cuban woll, ask recognition by all friendly couniries

and military aablatanco of lts prirainal ally, the U. S., and that the U.5.

be ready to Interveno unmediately with lis Forces. "This would all have

to take placo in a siattor of 19 houra, othercieo it would fall. I recognise

that this to s bold plas, but boldroes to necescary. There will be many

Piaks, many may bo tilled. As for myoell, I don't caro 1f 1 die. I bave

lose all my porsonal posedenlona and my son ls a priooner. " He reitorated

that all must be well projared in advance, there maat be no vacillatios.

everylaing must proceed rapidly. First, a concisado raid in force lo

aniso a pieco o! Cuban territory, preferably near Luantanamo, and inuie-

diatoly the members al the Council to ashore, proclain a provisional

govarnment, broadcast by radio to all nations an appoal for recognition

(and cables prepared in advance sould aloo be sent outi, requeat U. S.

assistance, aod the U. 5. should lursiah such assistance at onco lo ado.

gadle strangth to onsure vletory.

---

## Page 4

and te anilying ellore.

De. MIRO astod me what I thought of this projoct; dld l think

that Castro could be ovarthrown in any other way. I adritted that

strong milllary action appared necessary. I otatod lurthor that

of courno blo plan would have to be studied al the highost governmont

levale. He proposod that ho mighi elaborato a plan sish his millary

collaboratora, and l auggested that ho do thio so tbat il might bo oxamined

and considered.

Dr. MIRO doclared that he vas convinced that this Communlot

daggar in the side of tbe states could only ba eradicated by ruch aetlen,

that too U.8. 1o and will be blamed for all anti-Castro propagande,

onbotago, etc. and that enemy slatos will denounce il lor Latervention

In Cuba, but that ll the U. E, goes to the aid of s friendly sevolutionary

rogime establiahod la the country and bolpo it deloat the corlot-backed

Communiat regime, all Irlandly governments will applaud.

"I havo no personal political ambitions, " doclared SilRO.

"I morely am trying to chair the Council, whose lesten is to unify the

ant!- Castro olemonte Inoldo and outaldo of Cuba. li the tear lon't con

aldered olloctive, then chango to pitcher. But 1 believe the Coancil muat

establish itself on Cuban dull, and soon.

Timo ls agolnat as. "Tbe: tama

del Esta agresmant will backfire ayainst the U. 3. Il Castro le allowed

to remain la Cuba, In a year, after the politicos al the countrios sa-

colving 0. S. ald have gotten their hands os U.S. gold, they will say,

"Thanke to Castro, we dor this."' And they will spend il aa is the pant

with no benalita to the social and oconomic sellare al the peoplo. "

7. Vlows about the judgos and Lawyers

I quested DE. MIRO as d0 dis viewa relatio lo she judges and

lawyers and their lutare atatue.

¡o said ho huped that they coald al

eunite and that they could be «ivon aaslotance as in the past. He de

clared that DI. ALABAU was not qualllied to bo a juatice and that ha: wae

doing nothing but making politice and trylag to discredll the Cousell

and MIRC and VARGNA, DI, viRO doclared that ho, as Prime Miniates

In the early daye of the Chatro govorument, had sazzed: LABLU to the

.....i

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SLOM:T

Supreme Court, but that now he considered: IADAU unilt to hold any

Judicial position.

8. Membera of the Rovolusionary Conacil

DI. MIRO remarked that he had a meoting of the Councll en

10 October. I anked what elementa now composod it and what he pro-

posed to add. Ho mamod the following as presently in the Consejo:

Rescate

30 do Norlembro

MIRR

Accion Democratica

20 do Mayo

AAA Independento

MDC

Montecriati

He anid he had invited to jol:

MRP

Unidad Revolucionaria

and awaited their reply.

He would also like to have the Workers, Studonts, and the

Professionale (Doctors, Lawyers, etc.) come into the Councll. He be-

levas Batistlanos and Comunistas and elements unwilling to cooperatu

should be excluded, but that all other groupa should be brought together

under the Council.

He contenda that all anti-Castro activilies, except clandostine

and military, should be coordinated by mombers of the Council, but that

tha excepted activities should be known only to him (MIRO).

9. Probable Argentine Rupturo of Rolatlons wish. Caba

DI. MIRO declared that he bellevod imminent the Argentine

rupture al rolations with Cuba. He said the Argentine Ambasaador to

Cuba (Julio AMOF DO) sia ordered to retura to Havana the had been

vacationing in the U. S. altes ERONDIZIe vieil): tha: VILLANUEVA, A

Secretary ul the Argentino Embasay In Cuba was coming lo see MIRC

toray; and lurther that he (MIHO) had received a phone call last nighl

---

## Page 6

Qual

from a Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) In Buenos Alres, urglag MIRO

to go 80 Buenos Alres to aroudo anil-Castro sentiment of the peoplo,

Inaamucà so some Argontino action açalnot. Cuba appoared imminent.

(FERNANDEZ sadd he had already written MIRU a leIler.) MIRO sayo,

'Of courso, I cannot go. I bave lhe Consojo meeting on the 10th.

Furtbermore, I am going to New York on October lith or lith for the

SIP (Sociodod Interamericana de Prona) meetlay and have been allotted

12 infauses to address the meeting."

10. MIRO to altond Homago to LACERDA (Brazilian who

Prociellatod QUADHOS' roulynalion) on Uctober 15

DE. MIRO Bald he plannod to remain in New York City luller

11 asd 12 October SIP maoting) until October 15th to attend the homage

for LACERDA, the Governor of Guarabara province In Brasil. MIRO

probably will stay at the Fars Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark

ol his location.

I commented that I would probably ramain in Waehington nost

week in view al his plans, but that l raight go 8o New York City to meet

with him; if no, I would got in touch with him and arrange a moeting

time and place through Clark.

11. Eropazanda Commienion

I asked De. MIRO about bio ileao on the future organisallon

and structure of the Propaganda Cormiusion. He stated that it is out-

alde the Consojo and not Ulier his direct control, although the Counell

accountant has been passing fundo to 11. Ho sald CAPRILLO had rootgned

as head of Propaganda and that he would ilke CONTE AGUERO to handle

18. Ho clatmod lans MESTRE had not done anything with propagando.

12. MIRO'O Views Relmiiro to Supreme Court Juatico or PRIO

belay kocornised as Hoad of a Proviaional Goverumont

I asked Dr. MIRO If he belleved that there were many antl-

Castro Cabana (both la and out of Cuba) who lavored PRIO, or the head

of lhe Supreme Court to be the provisional president il a government were

So be establlahed on Cuban 8o11. Da. MIRO declared that the rovolution

In a fset, and that practically nobody wanta to go back to any former

rogime.

The people in Cuba would raslat any such posalbilily. He de-

---

## Page 7

nounced PRIO'o activitiea agalnat the Council and lo efforte to unity

the anti-Castro elemento. He anid that the people should be siren an

opportunity to elect their chief al stale aiter Castro's overthrow and

restabllahment of erdor la tho leland.

1J. O1íse00 of Council (Convolo Revoluclanario)

When questioned about bie business and privale telephones.

MIRO aníd, "The buainena phone le also in my house.

I bare no office

encops la my house, but that phone lo always buay (JEllerson 1- 1680).

So use the other phone (JE(fereon 1-2751) when you wish to call me."

'I neod lo havo a small olfica somowhore away from my home

becauso all the activities there ase drirlag my wife crasy. I want lo

find something modest ao that no accusation can be made of ostentation

merely a room los mysoll, one lor my secretary, and one for meetingo.

of the Council, ete.

Tho FRD had a place but al that place also was the

pross, the rofugoe contes, ole. l would not be sailofactory. The f'RD

lo now practically dead.

It was the forerunner of the Consojo as the

mifying agency of the anti-Caatro resletance."

14.

MIRO'a Ylows on Coordinating the Activilies of Olhor Exile

Groupe

Añer De. MIRO reiterated his view that ho should be the

channel for funde and coordinating the activities of groupa outaide the

Consojo such sa the Students, FORD (jabor), osc., 1 aald thal I under

stood that come of there elemants were unwilling to function under the

Consojo: and that in ver of that altuation, did he coraldo: that an

Activity Committee might be organised with a delegato from paci al

those groupo and under the chairmanahip of a member al the Consojo.

Thie would serve to coordinate their activilles, give them a tie-la with

the Consojo, yeß not make them subservient to it. Dr. MIRO replled

that this would merely sol up taothar Condojo outaide of and parallel to

the erinting Consojo. I did not pursua this further, not having enough

baekgroued al these organisationa to be able to diezuse tha ratter.

effoctivoly.

15. Telephono Convorsation with MIRO on 7. CC80b0r

Beforo my do parture from Miami for Washington on 7 Cetober,

I relephoned to Ds. MIRO from the airpert. He approciated the call and

sokod lí l had seen in the morning paper the action taken yesterday by

---

## Page 8

tho ALABAU LATyerA' group in proclalming Jullo CARCERAN (one

of the chlol poticeo lo onlo) as "prooident of Cube at Var." Ho es-

pressed his Indignasion at this untlateral "political" move by ALADAU

and his adherent » amonz the oxiied lanyors and judges. Ho addad hie

beat miahon to me and reminded me that he would probably go to New

York on October 11ta or 12th for the SIP (Socledad Interamericano de

Pronsal meetlag.

I ropilod that l would approclate ll he muld contact

Clark after ho arrival to give hla location in Now York City, and that

Clark might have a roqueat from me for an appoiniment with hira, 1l

this seerod deolrable, I cugooted that In future phone convorsatione

I would be know as JUANITO. He agreed with plonuure that this would

bo a good procedure. I wished him Godspeed and be roplied lemlee

to mo.

16. Commes!

Durtog those first two mectingo I andes'sored to establlah

mynoll favorably ults De. MIRO and therefore reirained from bringing

up dotalls of budget or opposition to any of hla specifle proposale.

I letonod, asked various quastions, and ho talked at length.

In future motings, alter I havo gained further background and

have more polley culdanco, I ahall bo ablo to discuss with him apecifie

losues and endeavor to reach agreements or compromises, de may be

seguired,

---

