# 104-10226-10037

## Page 1

104-10226-10037.

ORIG :

UNIT :

NH/4/PA-PROP

EXT. 1:

DATE.:

4935

8 August 1901

TO

...

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF

BELL 10

INFO,: DOP, COP, ADOP/A, WH 5, 5/'C 2

TO

INFO

. 16..

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECR&T

lin

19-150-26

ROUTING

To

CITE DIA

9 Auc 61 22.

44z

-SIO CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CUT84213

05177

PRIORITY WAVE

JNZIP

REPS: A. II'GA-1687*

B. HAVB 7358 (IN 46766) 114

• I. AGRIB CO VIEW REZ & THAT KUCAGE ACTIVITIES AMOLADE/VERY MAROINAL

VALUE.

2. RE THSIR REQUEST FOR ADDICICAL FUNDS TO DEVELOP HAICORES AB

COMMANDO GROUP, FIRST HE IN NO POSITION SUPPORT THIS TYPE OPS AT PRESENT

AND SECOND ME DO NOT FESI HAICONES HAS SUFTICIKNT POTKEFIAL WARRANT SUCH

SUPPORT. OUR FABLINO HOH IS THAT CILY UR PACTION WITH PA POSITIAL IB

ALREADY RECEIVING SUPPURI THROUGH AKHAZES.

3. IN VIEW ABOVE HRS WOULD LIKE TREI INATE FINACIAL ASSISTANCE

ANGLADS AFTER AUGUST UNLESS YOU ABIE DEVELOP THEM AS REAL XUTURE ASSETE.

REQUEST YOUR VISHS SOONEST RE KUTUES POTENTIAL ANGIAD 2, 3 AND & WITH

RECON ENDATIONS SALARY FOR BACH. ALSO WOULD LIKR CONSIDER MAKING TERHTHAI.

PAIRIT TO WIDOW AMGIAD-1 INSTEAD ON CONTINUIFO MONTITE SUASIDY THRU ANGLADS.

ADVISE AMOUNT SHK RECSIVING AND YOUR VIUS BEST HAY HANDIS THIS MATTER.

(CONTINUED)

COOPOINATIMO ORDICE

09-16 AUIMENTICA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ONG :

UNT

EAT

DATE

- TO

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONG

INFO,

1O

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

P BCRBT

ROUTINO

7.3001

PALE TWO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

1.215

05177

INFO

CITE DIR

H, PLS CLARITY AMOLADE DEB REMATHING $4000 OF $10,000 ADVANCE WHICH

CO INSTRUCTED TIM BE USE TO DEFRAY KXPENBES COMING NORTHS IN LIEU MONTHLY

BUBSIDY TIFY LAD FEEI RRCHIVING PER REF A.

END OF MESSAGE

*Report on firet contact with ANGlADe by Koapman, case officer

**Said AMGLADa had accounted for expenditure of $6000 advanced

to them by WAVB, (of which "the reamining $4000 was to be used

to defray expenses in lieu of the $1525 monthly aubaldy they

lad been receiving" according to Ref A) and that NAVE planned

continue $1500 aid during Aug. since group abous Limited

evidence PI potential and pending receipt lge commento on Rel A.

#t.l.

C/E//BA RAThom

Aaron Lechafe

years

COOPOINATINO 0UICI

BECART

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

