# 104-10247-10032

## Page 1

1104-10247-10032)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DO Nos Reproduce

19 March 1965

MESIORANDUA FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Meeting with AJWHIP-l in New York City.

17 March 1965

Niceting Time/Place/Purgose:

1. The undersigned met AJIHIP l at the del Pezzo

Restaurant, 33 West 47th St., at 1300 hours on 17 March

for the purpose of briefing him on better telephone

security while in Europe.

Other operational matters as

discussed below were broached.

Details of the lecting:

In response to a request from

AMWHIP-1

was given a security briefing for his trips to Europe.

and said he would adhere to it in

curn stated he felt that "Roberto" should begin meeting

him in more secure places than his hotel room, where

apparently the majority of the AUWHIP-I/Roberto meetings

take place.

We stated we would take this up with Roberto

in Paris prior to AJWHIP-l's projected trip during the

week of 21 March.

mote Contact only or 1 it te this a foca

---

## Page 2

=2-

obtained fron his trip which could not be held until his

return

to New York could be given

to Roberto in Paris for

transmission to the undersigned at Headquarters.

Rafael Garcia-Bango Dirube

AJWHIP-1 was asked 1f he know Garcia Bango (GB)

whom ie described as a lawyer, 33 years old, who had just

arrived in Madrid and claimed that he had a message

obviously coming from ALASH-l or members of his group.

AwHIp-t reilled that he knew GB who had been a friend

ANWHIP-1 stated

2.0°

15-2

AMWHIP-L further stated he felt GB would be

personally loyal to AMLASH-l in spite of any DSE suggestion

to the contrary.

(This again is a feeling which AJWHIP-1

had and is not to be taken

as gospel.)

He also mentioned

brother of GB, Jorge, on whom there are a number of

traces at Headquarters.

AMWHIP-1 also discussed the contents of a letter

received from AHLASH-2.

The essential part of this letter

plus a telephone call from ANLISH-3 from Madrid was that

ANLASH-J was somewhat upset by the fact that he was having

difficulty in getting a visa for the U. S. and/or the

Dominican Republic.

AJWHIP-1 then spent considerable

time discussing the treatment of AMLASH-2 and ANLASH-3 in

by KUBARK.

He said he felt that AMLASH-2 and

ANLASH-3 should be contacted by KUBARK and treated and

handled well.

If this were

done, they would both serve a

very useful purpose for KUBARK ends both in Europe and in

The undersigned told AWHIP-l that we essentially

agreed with his position and would take up the matter with

our superiors when we returned to Washington.

the visa for AVLASH-3, we pointed out that we

could not intercede for 'AMLASH-3 in either case because it

would be compromising to him.

To illustrate

explained that both governments knew that AMLASH-3 was a

Captain in the Rebel Army and had up until recently been

working actively for a ministry of the Cuban Government

to site tone not ee sue has so there tale

an the resore coverhered a Cuban official working in behalf

As such AJILASI-3, or anyone in

that position, would not be entitled to enter either country

under normal circumstances.

Re pointed out that theCuban

Government in all probability knew of this; and, if AMLASH-3

3/pl

---

## Page 3

14-00000

=3-

succeeded easily in entering either country, this would

rather obvious indication to the Cuban

•AJILASH-3 must be cooperating with one or the other govern-

AWHIP-1 accepted the explanation and felt it

would be readily understandable and a good excuse to give

to AMLASII-3.

AHWHIP-I also talked at length on the subject of

ANBIDDY-1 and ANLASH-l.

le repeated his previous positio

hat the marriage: of AMBIDDY-l and ANLASH-] would brood

that an unnecessary number of people now know of

AMLASH-l's plans, and that AMLASi-l himself was very

Furthermore,

vis-a-vis ODYOKE.

There were

no incidences of

---

