# 104-10050-10011

## Page 1

1104-10050-1001)

ES UNCLASS!FIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ION Smar designation, roofs Pombar, Hand

building)

1.

SCOTT

2.

WHITE-

3.

'NAL

= ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

EXTENSION

" DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

• FORWARDED

- До 406

CON"

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO.

DIR 74830

= 5945

DATE

OCT 11 1963

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo shon from whor

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.

Gorspriti

we should calif

_Ha for phots.

REPAO

10.

COPY ONLY.

ВОРУ ДЕТ TES NOT EX TR

ACTION COPY TO:

12.

Paul NEW Pip

SCOTT

3-62

610 USE PREMOUS

SECRET

S

• CONFIDENTIAL

f8573

CRE

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

0000182

REPRODUCTION

=

PROHIBITED

D 02392

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DiSTR:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION:

INFO:

DATE:

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

INITIALS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OTG

FILE:

DEFERRED

PRIORITY

EXXXX

ROUTIN

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

TO

MEXI

INCOMING NUMBER

INITIALS

P.WO

1022292

5945

50-8-10-6

EE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMB I OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL

LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-289248) BORN,18 OCT 1239 NEW ORLEANS •

¡LOUISIANA -FORMER RADAR OPERATOR: IN UNITED STATES MARINES

WHO DEFECTED- TO USSR-IN OCT 1952e

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

BLUE EYES®

ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

STATES CITIZENSHIP HE UNLIEN STATES

31 OCT 1959 HE. ATTEMPTED TO RENOG DE MOSCONIIED

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP•

ON 13 FEB

THE US EMB MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED

*HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US-PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE DROPPING:

OF: ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME." ON & JULYION RIS OWN

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH HIS WIFE TO SEE ABOUT HIS

RETURN TO STATES.

SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACIVAALY HAD NEVER APPLIED

FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLACALIEN

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR AND FOR

TEMPORARY EXTENSION

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME

REQUEST

APPLICATION

1, ACCORDING TO OSWALD CONTAINED NO REF

TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP•-"OSWALD STATED

HAD BEEN EMPLOYED SINCE:*

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIAN

RADIO AND TV FACTORY IN MINSK

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP•

OSWALD WAS

MARRIED ON 30-APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIXOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSRO. NO HDQS TRACES•

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW•

HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO-HIM=

US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

LATEST HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

4e STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REE AND PARA ONE TO

ODOẠTH,

TRO ADE THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID!"

AND ODURGE LOCALLY. INFO PARAS

( CONT PAGE. TWO

DER 14330

NUMBER

24 Urs old

I learn

DIN' O6

1-2.

SEASIREATION

INCOMING

0000183

REPRODUCTION

PROHOBITED

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

OTG

INITIALS

DEFERRED

INCOMING NUMSER

PRIORITY

ROUTINE

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

TO

INFO

CITE

PAGE TWO DIR 74830-IN 5945

"5.

REF "AND-POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

HOES ADVISED ON ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITiVE LDENTEFICATION

OF OSWALD.

NUMBER

-END - OF MSG...

REPRONULYON FRONT

11/16027

S. EASSIRRATION

INCOMING

0000184

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

