# 104-10528-10448

## Page 1

104-10528-10448

CLASSIFILU MESSAGE

3,?;

SECRET

TO . . • DIRECTOR

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassihati

FROM , MEXICO CITY

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

ACTION,. WHI 3

NW 53220 6/27/17

ENPO, DOP, GI, GI/UPS, GiliC:2, iF!, SR 7, SAS 8, iVR

EQUTING

4

5

6

EGRET 142184L

BOGO INFO DIR BUEN CITE TEXI CESY

itsan61038

REF: 2060.4188 (IN: 50376)

STATION TRADES ERNESTO MONTES i BRADLEY, PERONISTA REFUSE

"EXICO, REFLECT SUBJECT IN CONTACT

S6-1962 LEV ZHUADY, FIEST

SITARY SOVIET ¡EMA IN MEXI. THEIR ASSOCIATION APPEGRES IS 5E.

SECIAL NATURE, MEETING STALL CATES. @EFFATA IMERICA EDERAGEIGN

FILES REVEAL SUEJ ARRIVED NEXI MANCH IS I WITH DIPLOMATiS

•COURTESIES AFTER SERVING AS. MONTRARY

CONSUL CMEXICANS ROSANDO,

ARGENI INA. SUBJ AND WIFE VIRGINIA PICOT ACTIVE SOCIAL CIPQLE

WITY SOVIETS AND SATELLITE DIPLOMATS. DESSRIBEO AS UPITER.

MOLEVER MAY S9 YEVGENIY POPOV, BELIEVED RIS, CONVERSED FREGUENGY

WITH SUES REGARDING SICK PATIENT AND NEIGHS. OF SUBJ. POPOU

•ALSO I:QUIRES OF FALTH OF WIFE, VALENTINA. CLIFEATO IMERICK)

SUBJ APPEARS " OUT ".. ICTURE SiNCE ZHUXOV'S DEPARTURE ULY ÓR.

11962) INVITATION TO CUBAN CARASSY MEXI BE ANG. LECHUGA. IS

"BADLY BURNED" AND CONSIDERED AN " REJA" AT CUBAN EMBASSY.

LIFEAT AND NEUSPAPER IDENTIFICATION VARIES.

AH MATES SE

BRADLEY. AO MONTESSI BRADLEY, DR. GUILLERRO MONTES Y SRADLEY.

ERNESTO: MONTES Y BRADLEY: AND RODILFO ERNESTO MONTES Y BRÄDLÉY.

SECRET

Coop: As

---

