# 104-10186-10087

## Page 1

104-10186-10087

KINEORMATIONARERO

NEORMATIONERERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Is matertal rontatae tatormation allectine the Kattral Deranne il the Ualied Sierre mithla the meanina of the saulonnao lata

Tele

10, 036

PER THI and i94, lha LAnAmIeRiA de pprodita al ahIch in aNy mannos lo an unGulDOriard poron la probibiled by inu

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUMECT "Mixe" (an allas)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

(SCI-316/00535-65

5 February

1965

NO. PAGES

•• 1

DATE OF

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES

CS-311/00)15-64 (page 7:

8 July 1764

INFO

1964.

CSCI-3/782, 053

PLACE & Washington,

D. C.

26 June 1964

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS YENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who serve. with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Heatiquarters Comments

The following report is one öf a serles containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from

the records of this. Agency.

It is requested that the addressecs take no action on any of

the iniividuals

mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Mike" is the Deputy to Rimon Cesar CUENCA Montoto of

the Departmento Ilegal (Illegal Department), Central America,

of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate

He carries credentials of the Cuban

Ministry of Interior and travels

on a 'iploratic passport.

As Of April 1964, "Mike" was still in Cuba.

"Mike, " 1s a Cuban citizen, was born in about 1937.

ts approximately ilve feet six inches tall, weighs 150 pounds,

and has a medium build.

He has a white complexion, short,

curly, dar: brown hair, small brown eyes, and a pock marked face.l

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable.

information on

"Ast.ie."

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NSA

tedus

Brat, dad team ana

d'oratonos

TFBI V

STATE

REP•

CINCLANT

NAVI

CINCSO # I&NS

1 OCR

¡Nota, Polf distribution Indicated by "#".)

INFORMATION. REPORT INFORMATION PERORT

I7T SA EQUI /WE/J/R

L. JE.

LX 2215 & LX 2°91

HIL SA MONi LHEL

CI/RiA

ALE

UFGA 19083(16D-064;

HIL'SAR

100

NO PROJECT (AMMUO/I)

RID'iY

MLNL'E

POSALONH/SA S (1), WE 1 (2), CI %,

DORDINATINC

RID I

19-5-1

CI/RSA

Y др

---

