# 104-10217-10121

## Page 1

104-10217-10121

..

SECRET

23 FEB 1978

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, LA Division

FROM

:

SUBJECT

Chief, Central Cover Staff

: LPSTIPEND-- Reinol GONZALEZ Gonzalez

1. Reinol Gonzalez is a principal in the LPSTIPEND progras.

He is an ASPECIAL and carried in the program under category of

prisoner. His dependent wife, Teresa Gonzalez is currently re-

ceiving a monthly check from the Agency in the amount of 317-00.

There is no escrow account in this case.

cember

1977,

states that imprisoned anti-Castro leader

onzalez was freed last week and flew to Madrid on Sunday,

December 1977.

Information from Chris Hopkins. SA/LA/C. indicate:

that Gonzalez has been in touch with the American Embassy in

Hadrid seeking a visa to enter the United States.

Is now out of prison, consideration must be given to the cessation

of payments to his dependent wife.

following!

It is requested that LA Division provide CCS with the

Any additional information regarding Gonzalez's

whereabouts, especially any indication that he has

entered the United States and is now residing in the

Miami area with his wife.

Instructions as to the date that CCS should cease

making payments to Gonzalez's dependent wife.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVEIVED

SECRET EZ IMPDET 059770

L

---

## Page 2

к**

LN/C0-337-78

18 JUN 1978

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff

FROM:

Kaymond A. Warre

Chiof, Latin America Divisio

SUBJECT:

Reynol GONZALEZ Gonzalez

Reynol GONZALEZ Gonzalez, one of the AMSPECIAL

cases under the LPSTIPEND Project, according to our records

was released from

as of December l97prison in Cuba and was in Nadrid, Spain

The U.S. Consulate in Madrid at that

time was processing GONZALEZ for entry into the U.S. in

response to a petition from his wife, Teresa, reportedly

& U.S. citizen.

then recruited by the Agency in May 1960, GONZALE:

was paid a salary of $200 per month.

This amount has beer

provided to his wife residing in Miami over the years.

With

cost of living increases, she is now receiving $317 per month.

Cuban Operations has asked that Central Cover Staff

request the MHSAlVY's to send a letter to Mrs.

GONZALE: the

week of 12 June

advising her of our knowledge of her husband's

release from prison and asking her to advise as to his where-

If no response has been received from her by 24 June,

the date the June salary payments are to be mailed out, it is

requested that she be advised by follow-up letter that payments

have been terminated.

signed

Raymond A. Harrea

Raymond A. Marren

x1819 (12 June 1978)

DDO/ LA/CO/SP/C.Hopkins: gm

Distribution:

Orig -

Addressee

1

• C/LAD

1 - LA/CO Chrono

• 201-275940

• Originator

SECRET

EL B834

in +44419460

---

