# 104-10248-10235

## Page 1

104-10248-10235

PEE ERENCE :

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

45

Beckgrouna Sea Outy.

A Do gi Feproduce

Chief, Tecimical Services Staff/bp/r

Attas Security Officer

3 Narch 1952

assistant Chief, Socurity Contral Staff

Attendanoo at Professional leeting

Nemarandum dated 27 February 1952, to Assistant Deputy, Inspection and

security fron Acting Chief, TSS/DD/S

Iu On 28 February 1952, Mr, Bernard Joran, Security Officer, TsS,

was informed that this offioe had no security objections to the

attandance of

GS- 1,

GS- 22

CS-13

Chief, Applind Physies Branch

Doputy Chiat, Applied Physica Branch

Chief, Audio Support Division

Deputy Chief, Audio Support Division

at the Instituto of Radio EnrIneers leeting to be held at New lork City

3 to 6 larch 1952,

It was understood that these persornel, were to attond the

meting as observers orli, ani not as participants.

3. In regard to paraprash 3 of the Reference, it was agroad

that these personal could reveal their CIA employment, If necessary,

when contacting potential emloyees sho may be of use as consultants

or Staff Employees

It bas understood that no covert parsonnel

procurement would be attemptei,

FOR THE SECUTITZ OTICEL, CIA:

SIGNED.

N. H. LION

I&SO

Distribution

ce. Security Officer/TSS/DD/P

03

Indiv. Files of!

I Christ, [

File, SCS w/basic 03

and

Chrono•, Ses

WR - 29 February 1952

Ir. Van Schrader, Personnel Procurement, advised that his office has

approved this procurement venture and arrangements have been made to follow

through in normal manner after these initial contacts have been made. This

folzowup action would include Security Clearance requests where appropriate.

SECRET

SIGNE:

Vo J. THILL

---

