# 104-10431-10055

## Page 1

104-10431-10055

the wartine to

SECRET

316-01446614

VETEL LARY

AUSTRACT

1E23.WE PAT TECA

ILLILIN

WEE LEN TA

158 13)

203 204

7rag

E.re

IOR SIGNITO G03: 9:

98

Document Number.

1-39

for FOlA Review on

JUL 1976

HENORANDUS FOR:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT:

Lee Harvey OSHALD - Internal Secuz*

Russia • Cuba

1.:

Reference is made to your memorandum of August 14,

1961, Subject:: as above, your file number (S) 105-82555,

in which you requested that seven enclosed photographs be

shown to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of him.

VIADUCT was interviewed on 9 Septenber 196 wit

he following results ad commentet or suren photo?

3.

SeNt By FBI

Photograph so.1

(1) Nikolay SERGEYEV - Source did not recognize the

face and had never heard the name.

(2)

Annette (Anita) SETYAEVA, ZUGOFF,

formerly known

as 4. Annette GOLDSHITN (GOLDSIGIN and

Annette Henkina- (KIENKINA): Source recognized

her immediately by face, giving the name Annette

KHENKINA, Formerly Annette GOLDSHTEYN.

He could

not recall her maiden name but when offered the

name ZUGOFF he said this would be correct as it

is an Ossettian name and her father had been

Ossettian and her mother a Canadian. Source's

additional information on this woman is provided

1n paragraph & below.

(3)

Joseph ADAMOV:

Source recognized his photograph

immediately and provided the name correctly,

Identtfying hin as his long-time friend, previously

discussed in the

report referenced in your

nenorancum

SECREI

PECORD COPY

Ca002 1

Excladed from automatic

conagrading sud

desiassificarien

6 oct64

201-289248

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

(4)

(5)

(G)

Annabelle BUCAR: Source recognized her photo

graph immediately and gave her name correctly.

She is the person discussed in the

report.

Sergei RUDIN:

Source recognized his photograph

immediately and fave his same as "RUDIr"and

RUDELIAN Or RUDIHAR, the same man referred to 1n

report.

Source said he is a close

Iriend of Joe ADAMOY's. He 1a Jewish and was

originally tron few fors, but is now a soviet .

citizen, married to a fussian vonan and father

of throe or four children.

He works in the

English language sectton of radio Moscow. He

had formerly had a very small flat of one or

two rooms, with which he was very inhappy, but

Radio Hoscow got bin an attrnotive and larger

flat in a building on Peschanaya Street.

Lucy (01ga) PRAVDINA: Source recognized her

photograph at once as the woman who had given

him English lessons in 1914 or 1945 when he was

briefly employed at

He belleved

her name was Irin

or sonething ilke that, and

she had previcusly spent posaibly ten of fifteen

years in the United States with ber husband who

had been a TASS nan there.

Source could not

recall her last name (narried nane) but thought

1t began with a

. "3"..: When Source Lirst not her

She was a program director for Radio Moscow and

did some announcing. He said she spoke excellent

English, was i good worker and well ilked by her

colleagues.

He did not know the nanes Ludi and

CIGA PRAVDIRA, and was certain neither was bar

actual name.

Photographs " and 3:

Source recognized these as

annette thesia, or paragraph a ( above.

5.

Photograph no. ½:

Source recognized number 1 as

the porson identified in paragraph 3 (6) above; and recognized

Annette SHANKINA, Serged RUDIMAN, and Joe ADAJUV. He did

not recognize Nikolas SERGEYBV in this photograph.

Photograph no.

and (5) above.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

Photograph. Do. 6:

Source recognized number. (1)

AS INNKIN (first name not recalled), the second husband

of Annetto GOLDSUTESN KINKINA, and number (2) as Annette

berself. le knew that they had a son and assumed that the

child In this photo was that son, but he had never sees the

child.

Source provided the same information on KHENKIN

previously included in Report Number 20, referred to

in your menorandum..

He added to this that the apartment

bullding In the background of photograph number (3) 16

the location of the apartmeut which KHENKIN was given alter

he had written a letter to Stabli complaining of quarters

he was Iirst givon when he repatriated to the Soviet Unlon

1n 1945 ог 1946.

Photograph no. 7: Bource recognized Annette

RHENKINA, but did not know any of the others in the photo.

When nunber (4), Marina, vas pointed out to bin, he stated

that she was the right age to be Annette's daughter by her

first busband, GOLDSETEYN.

Source had seen her as a suall

child, possibly about five or six yeary of age, in 1945.

He bas

never soen her since, in ew nothing more about her,

and could not identify her photograph.

Sourco commented

that he bad never net GOLDSETBIN, Annette's first busband,

but knew that he was mich older than she and he speculated

that the older man in this photograph might be Borta

GOLDSHTEIN. Source gave the following additional inforation.

on Boris Costrail Le waS

sone kind of engineer-technictar,

not employed by Radio Moscow.

working in the radio field, and diaapproved of the people

the worked with there and the general atmosphere of work.

Annette vas already separated or divorced Iron COLDSAIN

when Source first not her, sometine In 1944 or 1945. While

Annette was still married to GOriSitill, she had an affair

with Joe ADAMOV

Regarding Loy or LeO SETYAEV, Source had never

beard the name. He was not aware that Annette. KHENKINA.

had varried for the third time, although he knew that she

was divorced fros KIENIN and that he vas interested in

marrying a woman who was an editor in a publishing house.

10. Source had never heard of lee Harvey OSWALD

prior to his defection, and had no information regarding

his participation in a Radio Moscor Interview in late

1959. He commeuted, however, that it was not unusual to

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

conduct interviews of this sort, and Joe ADANOV could

have suggested the taping of an interview.

It would

not necessarily follow that such a tape would be used for

au actual broadcast, as such decisions were not make by

the Interviewer cụt

by the program directors

FOR TES DEPUTY DIRECIOR FOR PLANS:

JAMES ANGLETON

CSCI316/01446-64

S. M. DOWNEY: SR/CI/KGBmbg

Distiibution:

Orig

30 September 1964

Addressee

C/cI

1 - CI/OPS/SS - dmy copy

17- CI/R&A - dmy copy

1

CI/CI - dmy copy

IT - C/SR/CI

1

- SR/O/US di - dmy copy

2

- RI/FI (201-280, 248)

- dny copy

. - SR/CI/KGB (chrono & comeback)

comeback to SR/CI/Research

after return.

SECRET

---

