# 104-10169-10337

## Page 1

104-10169-10337

DISPAIGH

Cis

14-1

trista

Calai, fa

Barl

AETHAN TO CIA

Do

¡siound Use. Only

Noi Reproduce

772

Referoncasa las cited ta the choods

FONaTLOS KOrETLES DA GLI PEDIAP Eutabods Sesota da Sorsata tão Bars

been rescatly coulgaad to idistini.

ASTIGT, PatI

19 haguat 290

217, VF

prici to 15 Loptesiser 1960

5 217et 160

maturat, vis

watersi dici

SALITILA, TOSTOSIniTa

•7 Suptender 14:60

Ilatson may be edrised that thero aro no provicus traena ea furioy, luklECTY and

SALSIVA. Incidentally, MIrOrova ¿aio of biria nalcy bi suspocò sa a"tralaco."

Barally tha traircus range in age fica 22 to 23e 4 37 goarosu ong 13 20a60a €

raritje Axythias jou observe conccining hir will bo of particular interost &

Hoadguarters®

Il tho dato os Virta Liotca In tha possibly identificbla traca on AnkarE ta

hoet fita the ran in Lalainkl, thiy treso nor bo pacaede la tia cosasco of e

foll nine and dato of tirib on allor, it 1o questonasle e to baotier tho traces

Ilated aro epplicablo. Ii the dato of birth in Itan lo. 1 suples, Liaicon may bo

told that Killlet was in Euedon carty 1a 1945, but tho particul rs should not ba

divulged. Itay lue 2 caries a 1070ul contal cud my not bo pescade. Tha pacio

graph ausched to forurAlers shard moy noù bo cic to lioleca, but paras you'al

havo nn cecastes to nato a comparicaa sita a liviaind paologiaois. Il tho biographio

data fits, Jo0 LaT EUca ti traco Ed poss siat Tou dean epropriato, boaring in

PRESTON T. CARGOILD

istaohmentsa 6 PuDiA? Steots

Distributiona

2

watts

FEROSS FEREMENCE iG

no mo

DAREPARZI

21 lici io

DISPAIDI SYNDCI AND RUTIGLE

2250511773301

HEADULI

ETERS FILE NUMGER

23

DATE DISI'AICIILO

24 UCT 1450

3

OFfICE

UHI MEN

DINATINL

TYrist

TEAT

2053

• ViA W/ütts

5R/2/63

WIN H'S HANE

79--03

AlBio (Daumentatia)

FIBR

'RI/F

CONTICE SEASEN

---

