# 104-10322-10249

## Page 1

104-10322-10249

- ¿ ONLY

L. SECREI

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Ken Knaus

EO/DDO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

nowadi no Mogletsy

76-5726

EXTENSION

NO.

03/76-88891

DATE

9203

24 November 1976

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

do whom.

Draw a line aeross column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Mr.

2.

3.

Ken Knaus

7E-26 HOS.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

You asked

the other day

about public statements made

by either Mr. Bush or Mr.

Colby concerning Agency

policy on assassinations.

Attached is far more than I

am sure you ever wanted to.

know about this subject.

You will note however, among

all this verbiage'

the only

really explicit public state-

ment against assassinations

or at least the only one

that the computer has recorded

is the one made by Mr. Colby

in his TV appearance in

October 1975.

Mr. Bush's

only public reference is in

an implicit rejection. Would

you please return these

statements if you have no need

for them as I assume the

subject will reoccur each time

the new investigating committee

turns the subject over.

11.

12.

13

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

*. 0 0 0

CLIP000022

5R1

L1

_WILLIAM E. COLBY TV APPEARANCE

OCTOBER 5, 1975

EE

FIND THAT IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE TIMES,

THAT

IN THE 1950'5 AND 1960'S, THERE WERE

THING

WERE

CONSIDERED

QUITE

APPROPRIATE AT THAT

TIME WHICH ARE NO LONGER CONSIDERED

A

FFROPRIATE.

HERMAN:

SOMETHING AS

SIMPLE AS

THE BRERK-IN ON DR

THE

ELLSBERG'S PSYCHIMIRISI

PEOPLE WHO BROKE

IN,

WE

KNOH FROM

BELIEYED

THEY WERE

THING RIGHT AND

PROPER FOR THE

GOVERNMENT OF THE

COLBY:

T'S A QUESTION FOR A

JURY

TO DECIDE

DON'T HAVE ANY PROBLEM.

DE.

THEIR TESTIMOND STATES. IT'S NOT FOR ME

TH/K

THA

I'M EXPRESSING MY BELIEF

HERMAN: BUT DON'T

YOU HAVE A FEELING

ABOUT

AT

THE CIRCUMSTANCES,

Tri

HS I KNOW IT:

WE HOULD NOT HAVE

NVICTED.

WISE:

COLEY,

DO YOU THINK

THAT. THE CIA SHOULD KILL

ANY OF OUR EMPLOYEES ACTUC

THE POLITICAL

IN

OTHER COUNTRIES? AND HAVE

THEY EVER DONE SO OR ATTEMPTED TO DO 50? COLBY:

VERS ELEANO RUT

OF FOR TWO REASONS

SUBJECT A GUOD UNE

I THINK

AND

THINK,

SECONDLY.

WE CAN

SEAR INTO OUR NATIONAL HISTORY A

WERU

DAMAGING WOUN

THAT SOME OF THE FACTS OF

THESE THINGS,

BECAUSE

OF

THE WAYS

THESE MATTERS

WERE DISCUSSED AT THE

WHERE

THE-APPROVAL AND HOW DETAILED THE

THE APPRENE

ARE VERY MURKY AS TO WHO WAS

WAS

WISE:

BUT

PART OF

IT AND

YOU'RE

SAYING THAT

IT

WAS

A SUBJECT.

COLBY:

IT IS NOT A

SUEJECT FOR PUBLIC DISCUSSION

WISE:

ARE YOU SAYING

THERE WAS AN ATTEMPT

OR.

COLEY:

I AM SAYING

SITUATION

WAS VERY MURKY

AND

THAT

EALLY DON'T BELIEVE

THAT THIS SUEJECT

THE

IS AN APPROFRIATE ONE FOR AN OFFICIAL

ING ABOUT.

WISE:

BUT HOW ARE WE

GOING

TO

GET

THE FACTS ABOUT

IT

THEN?

TO

BE

TALK

COLEY:

HE HAVE

EPORTED ALL THE FACTS TO THE

SENATE COMMITTEE.

THEY HAVE

EXAMINED

THE MATTER INDEPENDE

NTLY

GEE "EL" THEM!

ND I THINK THEY CAN COME TO A CONCLUSION ON THE BASIS OF THE EVIDENCE FVFIL

ELE TO

BUT

I DO NOT

BELIEVE

IT

IPPROPRIATE FOR OPEN PUBLIC DISCUSSIO

THINK WE

CAN HURT OUR COUNTRY VERY SERIOUSLY

SCHORR:

DOES

THAT

MEAN WHEN

BECHUSS

SENATOR MOH

DALE

MENTIONS,

AS HE DID

IN A SPEECH THIS WEEK,

THE

EXISTENCE OF A

GROUP

CALLEd THE

EX

ECUTIVE ACTION GROUP FOR A

COUPLE OF YEARS

IN THE EARLY

SIXTIES WHICH

WAS CHARGED WITH

RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAKING

PLANS,

HYPOTHETICAL OR NOT,

FOR

THE ASSASSINATION OF

WARIOU

S PERSONS,

THAT YOU'D

RATHER

NOT

TALK

ABOUT

THIS?

COLEY:

WE HAVE REPORTED

EVERYTHING O

N

THIS GENERAL

SUEJECT

THE COMMITTEES

R. PUBLIC DISCUSSION.

BUT

I DON'T BELIEVE THAT IT'S APPROPRIATE FO

ABOUT?

COLBY:

I DON 9 ORE

YOU

DON'T DISPUTE

THE

LITTLE

THAT SENATOR MONDALE HAS TOL

T SAY ONE WAY OR THE

OTHER

JUST

APPROPRIATE FOR PUBLIC DISCUSSION

PUELIC

DISCUSSION

DON'T BELIEVE

THE

SUBJECT IS

WHEN THE

SENATE REPORT COMES OUT.

COLBY:

THERE HAS

BEEN QUITE A LOT OF

PUBLIC

DISCUSSION.

SCHORR:

THERE HAS

BEEN

COLBY

BUT

DON'T THINK

IT

APPROPRIATE FOR

ME

TO

DISCUSS

IT IN GREAT DETAIL.

HERMAN:

FIRE

OU SATISFIED WITH THE PROSPECTS FOR SECURITY

OF

WHAT YOU HAVE

TOLD THE

THO

COMMITTEES?

COLEY:

I THINK OUR RECORD TO DATE HAS

GOOD

IN

THE

SENATE.

BEEN

HERMAN: NO,

I'M TALKING

QUITE

ABOUT

THEM. MR.

COLBY.

COLBY:

YES

DO YOU

THINK

THAT

THEY WILL KEEP SECURE

THE

THINGS

THAT

YOU WANT KEPT

SECURE?

HERMAN:

COLBY:

WELL.

THINK

THE SENATE HAS

KEPT ITS MATTERS QUITE

CHREFUL.

WE HAD

A DISC

SSION LAST

WEEK, AS YOU KNOW,

WITH THE HOUSE

COMMITTEE

AS TO THE DETAILS OF HOW WE MOU

LD DO THINGS.

AND

I

THINK

THAT

1S

AN ARRANGEMENT;

IT*

A

COMPROMISE

ARRANGEMENT,

AND

AFFORDS A

VEHICLE FOR

REASONABLE

MEN

TO COME TO GOOD

CONCLUSIONS AS TO

WHAT

SHOULD E

E EXPOSED AND WHAT

SHOULD

BE

KEPT

QUIET

THERE MAY

BE

SOME

INDIVIDUAL LEAKS.

YOU

JOURN

ALISTS ARE VERY ENÉRGETIC IN

PROSECUTING THE

POSSIBLE STATENENTS OF

ONE

MAN AND COMPAR

ING IT WITH ANOTHER

AND

ADDING

TO AN

OVERALL

STORY

BUT

WOULD HOPE

THAT

THE DISCI

PLINE

OF

THE

SENATE

AND

THE

HOUSE

COMMITTEES AND THEIR STAFFS WOULD

BE

AS GOOD AS

THE

DISCIPLINE OF THE

EXECUTIVE

BRANCH.

AND

NEITHER WILL

BE PERFECT

NEITHER

ARE

PERFECT

THE MOMENT.

BUT I

WOULD HOPE THAT WE AMERICANS,

AS WE TRY TO

MAKE INTELLIGENCE RESPO

NSIBLE.

WE CAN BE RESPONSIELE

OURSELVES IN

THE WAY WE

DO

IT.

WISE:

MR.

COLBY.

YOU

SAID

THAT ASSASSINATION IS NOT A GOOD SUEJECT TO BE DISCUSSING

PUBLICLY

BUT AT

HERRING

ABOUT

TWO WEEKS AGO,

G

THAT

POISON DART

GUN

AT

THE

CHURCH COMMITTEE

HEARIN

IN THE SENATE.

YOU

DISPLAYED

AND I WONDERED

IF THAT GUN OR

THAT TYPE

WEAPON HAS BEEN

USED

AGRIN

ST

ANY

FOREIGN POLITICAL

FIGURES.

COLEY: THE GUN HAS NOT

OF

BEEN

USED.

THE

GUN WAS BROUGH

T UP THERE BECAUSE THE SENATE COMMITTEE RATHER

INSISTED ON

ITS BEING THERE

I DIDN'T V

OLUNTEER IT.

CERTAINLY.

BUT IT WAS R PART OF

THE EVIDENCE THAT WAS SUBMITTED TO THE CO

MMITTEE.

T

COULD

NOT BE

STEERSES ECHORE. SOMET

IT WRS SO HIGHLY

CLASSIFIED

THE I

THAT

ONE OF

THONES TERTOELL

SCHORR: MR.

AS ONE GETS AROUND

THIS COUNTRY,

ONE FINDS

THINGS

NOT GO AWAY

IS THE

POPULAR MISUNDERSTANDING ABOUT

ASSASSINATION

OF

THE

PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

GAIN,

PEOPLE ASK ME.

AND

I GUESS THEY VE

GUESS

YOU'VE RUN INTO THAT.

AND

TIME AND

TIME A

ASKED YOU.

-DID

THE CIA DO IT?-

I SAID

i AS FA

KNOW.

THE

CIA

HAD NOTHING WHATSOEVER

TO DO

WITH

Y CONSPIRACY

THIS

COUNTRY AGAINST

ANY

AMERICAN

THE

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION OR AN

PUBLIC FIGURE. - BUT

COLBY: CORRECT

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SCHORE: ONE OF THE REF

NS THAT PEOPLE. DON'T UNDERSTE THE ROLE OR LACK OF ROLE OF

THE CIA

IS

THAT THERE

- THINGS

THAT

CIA DID

KNOW SOUT

TALKING ABOUT,

FOR

TANGENTIALLY

CONNECTED

WHICH APPARENTLY

DIDN'T

COME

OUT

I'M

EXAMPLE;

THE SERIES

OF

rONG

FIRACIES TO

TRY TO KILL CASTRO. WHICH WAS NEVER COMMUNICATED

TO THE WARREN COMM155:00

RS FAR

DIDN-T

AS : I KNOW.

TELL

THE

JOHN MCCONE;

AS DIRECTOR,.

HELMS,

AS

DEPUTY DIRECTOR,

TESTIFIED fireb

WARREN

ANYTHING ABOUT

•SAY

THAT

COMMISSION

COVERING UP

THAT.

WOULD YOU CARE,

IF YOU

T WAY, TO.

THINGS

THAT DIDN'T MATTER LIKE

THAT,

FEEL

DIDN•T MATTER

THA

THAT

MUCH

IT WAS' A MISTAKE

AND GETS

THE

CIA BLAMED FOR A LOT OF

THINGS IT

DIDN'T DO?

LBY: WELL,

THE

CIA IS

SOMEWHAT ACCUSTOMED

TO

BEING

BLAMED FOR A LOT

OF THINGS

CASE;

• IN THAT

CIA DID

PROVIDE

TO

THE WARREN

COMMISSION

EVERYTHING IT KNEW

ABOUT THE

ASSASSINA

TION,

ABOUT OSWALD AND

FORTH.

IT DID

NOT

APPARENTLY DISPLAY

THIS MATTER."

BUT

YOU

MU

ST

REMEMBER

THHT

MR.

ALAN. DULLES WAS

MEMBER OF

THE WARREN

COMMSSION;

AND

HE

CERTAIN

LY

KNEW

SOMETHING

ABOUT

THIS GENERAL

SUBJECT:

AND

HE

COULD HAVE

BROUGHT THAT QUESTION

IN

VERY

EASILY.

SCHORR: CAN:YOU

SAY NOW

THAT: OTHER

THAN

INVOLVEMENT WITH

CASTRO

D

THAT WHICH

MAY

OR MAY NOT HAVE

ITS

OSWALD. 5

AN

BEEN. INVOLVED. WITH

THAT.

WHAT

WAS

GOING

ON'SIN

MIND

IN

THE

CIA HAD NO

CONNECTION WITH OSWALD

NO

CONNECTION

Bus Buy

NOT HIDING

ANYTHIN

THE WAY

THAT

WE'RE FINDING OUT

THE

FBI DESTROYED

CERTAIN

HAS

•ASSASSINA

DOCUMENTS,

THAT

ITION?

THE

CIA

NOTHING FURTHER TO REVEAL

ABOUT

THE KENNEDY

COLBY: CERTAINLY NOT,

OT

AT

ABOUT MR.: OSWALD OR ABOUT THE

WAS

IN

ASSASSINATION

WE

FROVIDED

TO

ALL THE

MATERIAL

WE HAD

ANY WAY:

RELEVANT TO THE

MATTER

THE WARREN

COMMISSION,

WITH THE

SINGLE

EPTION

OF THE POSSIBLE

STORIES ABOUT MR

CASTRO,

WHICH

3X8

THINK

WERE CONSIDERED

RELEYANT. AT

THE

TIME

WISE:

WOULDN'T

THE CIA

HAVE WANTED

TO BRIEF

:A5.10:7

OSWALD,

DEBRIEF HIM WHEN HE

5

CAME

BACK FROM

THE SOVIET UNION,

ASK HIM ABOUT HIS TRAVEL

IN

THE SOVIET UNION? I'VE

•ALWAYS WONDERED ABOUT

THAT

COLBY:

WELLI

THERE WAS

SOME

NSIDEATION OF THAT.

BUT HE HAD

OTHER CONNECTIONS,

OTHER

CONTACTS,

OULD HAVE BEEN HANDLED THROUGH

THAT.

WISE:

AND ANY DEBRIEFING

C

I DON-T UNDERSTAND

COLBY:

R

CONTACTS,

RECORD,

HE HAD

•SOME

OTHE

AS I THINK HAS COME OUT IN

WITH

STATES GOVERNMENT,

OTHER

EN

HANDLED

ASPECTS OF OUR GOVERNMEN: WISE:

THE

AND ANY DEBRIEFING

THE

UNITED

THAT

WAS.

APPROPRIATE

COULD

HAVE

BE

THROUGH: THAT MANNER.

ARE• YOU

SUGGESTING

THE

FBI

MIGHT HAVE INTERVIEWE

HIM? COLBY:

•I :

THINK THERE IS IN THE RECORD THE

ITH

THE FBI.

HERMAN: WHEN

FACT

THAT WAS

SOME CONTACT

EARLY ON

---

## Page 4

13-00000

.CLIP000023

SR1

"ÊE

MR.

COLBY ON MEET THE PRESS

WAS INDIGENOUS OR WAS BEING STIMULATED AND SUPPORTED

BY

FOREIGN

INTELLIGENCE OR

RITY

SERVICES.

MR.

GELB: BUT

DUP OWN STUDIES SHOWED

SECU

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

THAT

MR.

COLBYS AND IT*

co

THESE

WERE

NOT

CONNECTED

WT

TH

IT. WE FOUND THEY

RE

NOT

CONNECTED.

IF WE HAD NOT

STUDIED

I Te

S

WE COULD

NOT

STUDYING

MAKE

BUT

THAT

FINDING.

NR.

GEL

YOU COULD

MAKE

THAT ARGUMENT BY

SAYING YOU WOULD

HAVE TO

KEEP

STUDYING SOMETHJIL

OREVER TO

INSURE

IT DIDN'T

HAVE A FOREIGN CONNECTION.

MR.

COLBY:

NO,

I DON'T

THINK

DO

VOLI

YOU RESPOND

TO

A

PRESENT NEED,

A PRESENT

•PROBLEM,

A

PRESENT

DANGER.

WE TERMINATED

THIS OPERATION

YEAR

AND A HALF

AGO,

BECAUSE

THE

PROBLEM HAS

GONE

AWAY IN GREAT

AND:

CONSEQUENTLY THERE

IS

NOT

A REASON: FOR

CONTINUING

THAT KIND

OF.

PART

AN

EFFORT

TO

IDEN

TIFY FOREIGN

LINKS TO

AMERICAN DISSIDENT

ORGANIZATIONS

MR.

ROSS:

SENATOR

CHURCH

SAY'S

THAT HIS

INTELLIGENCE

COMMITTEE

HAS

NOT

BEEN

ABLE

TO

FIND

EVIDENCE

:OF

AN

ORDER

PRESIDENT

FROM

AN

THE

CIA TO

PLAN ASSASSINATIONS. DOES

THIS

COLBY:

THAT MEAN

THE CIA WAS

ACTING

OWN

IN

ON

RREA? MR.

DON'T BELIEVE:

DIFFICULT

THAT

I WANT

TO TALK ABOUT THE

SUBJECT OF ASSASSINATIONS. THIS IS A VER

AND COMPLEX

SUBJECT

SOME

OF

THE'

FACTS

ARE NOT

WELL

KNOWN

OR

NOT

WELL

RECO

RDED;

AND SOME

OF

THE DEGREE

TO WHICH

VARIOUS PEOPLE

WITHIN

AND

OUTSIDE OF THE

AGENCY

WERE A PART

OF

ANY SUCH

ACTIVITY

IS NOT

VERY

CLEAR.

WE

HAVE REPORTED

ON

THIS

FULLY

TO

THE

COMMITTEES

AND HE

WILL DO

S0,

BUT

I DO NOT

THINK

IT

APPROPRIATE

FOR

PUBLIC

DISCUSS

ION.

ON

MR.

H1S

ROSS:

LET ME

TURN

TO ANOTHER AREA

THRONE IN

THE MID-FIFTIES.

THE

HRE

DEAL

MORE

SHAH

THEN.

THE

CIA

PLACED

THE

SHAH

OR IRAN BACK

NOW ONE

OF.

THE PRINCIPAL REASONS

OUR

WHY

PAYING A

MONEY FOR

IN

THIS

WE

GREAT.

INSTANCE,

AS

OTHERS:

IT HAVE BEEN

BETTER TO

JUST ALLOW EVENTS

TO

TAKE

IN

MIGHTN

THEIR

NORMAL COURSE?

MR:.

COLBY:

AN

D ALLOW THE COMMUNIST

PARTY

OF

IRAN TO

TAKE

OVER

THAT

COUNTRY?

I DOUBT

OU

WOULD HAVE BEEN STOPPED

LONG

BEFORE

THIS.

MR.

ROSS:

THAT.

THIIX

FROM

THE OIL

WOULD

NOT

OIL

IBLY

BE

CHERPER.

RT OF

BEING

BOUGHT FROM THE

COMMUNIST COUNTRIES? WE

HAVE ENGAGED IN SOME

Si:

AN ATTEMPT TO NEGOTIATE

3

OR NATURAL GAS FROM THE SOVIET

UNION

MIGHTN'T THAT BE A CHEAPER PRICE

THAN WE

ARE PAY

ING

OUT OF

THE PERSIAN GULF

RIGHT

NOW?

MR.

COLBY:

IN THE MID-FIFTIES,

C

OMMUNIST.

EXPANSION WAS A VERY

GREAT DANGER AROUND THE WORLD,

THE

PROBLEM OF

AND

, HE

DID

A LOT.

OF THING

S TO

PREVENT IT.

IN THE SEVENTIES

WE HAVE BEGUN THE

PROCESS OF NEGOTIATION WITH A COMM

UNIST WORLD WHICH IS,

ITSELF,.

DIVIDED

IN THE

FERENT

STRATEGIC

SITUATION

SINO-SOVIET

SPLIT.

YOU HAVE A TOTALLY DIF

WE ARE

FACING TODAY

THAN

THE ONE WE

FACED

IN THE FIFTIES.

.M

SPIVAK:

THE PUBLIC HAS BEEN

DEEPLY

CONCERNED BY

THE STORIES

OF CIA

LOTTING TO ASSASSINATE FOREIGN

LEADERS.

IT

WOULD BE

INVOLVEMENT

P

DON'T

YOU

THINK

BETTER

TO

IN

RELEASE

THE

FULL AND

TRUE STORY LEST

RUMORS AND SPECULATIONS

MAKE

IT

SEEM A

15?

MR.

COLBY: NO;

INSTRUCTIONS IN

THE

LOT.

WORSE THAN

IT

MR.

SPIVAK:

THE

AGENCY

ARE

QUITE

CLEAR,

THAT

TH

AGENCY WILL

NOT

EnGAGE

SUPPORT

E.

THOSE

IN.

STIMULATE OR

CONDONE ASSASSINATION AT

INSTRUCTIONS

HAVE BEEN ISSUED BY

THE

THIS

TIM

AGENCY. FOR

SEVERAL

YEARS

NOW.

MR.

SPIVAK

WE

ARE TALKING ABOUT THE PAST THOUGH.

MR.

COLBY:

I DO

NOT THINK

NTRY

IT

TO GO INTO A GREAT EXPOSURE OF

THINGS THAT HAPPENED

IN

THE

USEFULATO

OUR

coU

FIFTIES

AND SIXTIES.

ND

I THINK

THAT

THAT

SUBJECT HAD

BEST

BE

SETTLED BY

ADOPTING A FIRM

THIS

A

POLICY AT:

NT

NOT

TO USE SUCH ACTIVITY AND LETTING

U TO. ONE THING

THAT

IS

HAPPENING NOW?

THE PAST STAY QUIET.

ARE BEING

MR.

SPIVAK: MAY I

POI

TAKE

THAT

THE CIA

IS

40

RUMORS

SPREAD

SOMEHOW

INVOLYED

IN ATTEMPTS TO GET

COLBY:

RID

OF PRIME

MINISTER

DENY

THAT.

INDIRA

GANDHI.

CAN YOU

CATEGORICALLY

STATE THATMR.

ANY WAY?

MR.

COLBY:

"I CATEGORICALLY

I CATEGORICALLY

DENY

THAT.

MR.

MR.

SPIVAK:

--IS

CIA NOT INVOLVED

IN

ROWAN:

THE ROCKEFELLER

RÉPORT

SAID

THAT

ONE

OF THE CIA'S: COMPUTER

SYSTEMS

HAD

INFORMATION

ON

300, 000

AMERICANS

IN

IT.

YOU

HAVE

TESTIFIED THAT

THE CIA MAINTAINS 40 TO 50 SUCH. RECORD

SYSTEMS. MI

AM WONDERING.

C

AN YOU TELL US. HOW MANY. AMERICANS AR

---

## Page 5

13-00000

+" + 00 CLIP000031

SR1

L1 NOVEMBER 26, 1975 19:00 PM. INTERVIEW SEGMENTS WITH COLBY BY DAN RATHER ON LEE WIT

EY OSWALD

SR2

L2 PART 2, CBS REPORTS INQUIRY ON ASSASSINATIONS, WTOP TY CBS NETWORK, WASHINGT

SR3

L3 DAN RATHER:

SOME CRITICS OF THE WARREN REPORT

BELIEVE OSWALD WAS TRAINED AS A SPYW

HILE

SENT

IN. THE

MARINE CORPS

AND WAS

TAUGHT

THE

RUSSIAN LANGUAGE

IN ANTICIPATION

OF BEING

TO RUSSIA.

WILLIAM COLBY,

THE

PRESENT

DIRECTOR

DIRECTOR

• OF

THE

CIA,

SAYS THAT IS NOT TRUE.

COLBY, DID

SEND.

THE CIA RECRUIT LEE

HARVEY

OSWALD WHEN HE WAS IN THE

EFORE HE WENT TO THE

OSWALD

RATHER:

MARINES AND

HIM TO RUSSIA? COLBY: NO

WE HAD NO

CONTACT WITH MR.

NO- CONTACT

B

SOVIET UNION? COLBY: NO CONTACT WITH HIM BEFORE HE WENT TO THE 50

VIET

UNION,

NO CONTACT WITH HIM

AFTER HE

RETURNED FROM

NO CONTACT WI

TH HIM WHILE HE WAS IN THE

SOVIET

SOVIET

• WHEN HE RETURNED TO

THIS COUNTRY?

RATHER:

COLBY: NO;

DID

THE

UNION.

ANYONE

WITH

THE CIA DEBRIEF

DID:NOT DEBRIEF HIM

ERE ARE SOME UNCLASSIFIED. OR

• NOT DEBRIEF HIM:

DECLASSIFIED, REPORE CIF FBI DEBRIEFINGS DIFFICULT

OSWAL

I THINK TH

BUT THE CIA DI

RATHER: I SAY

TO

YOu.

AS I HAVE BEFORE.

FOR M

ANY PEOPLE, AND

IN ALL CANDOR,

FOR ME TO BELIEVE:

ARINES.

GETS OUT OF

DIFFICULT

THE MARINES, GOES

TO THE SOVIET UNION,

THAT

A YOUNG MAN IN THE M

MARRIES'A RUSSIAN WOMAN,

ES BACK TO THIS COUNTRY,

• COMES

BACK

INTO

THIS SOCIETY;

MOV

AND IT IS DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE

THAT

THE CIA DID NOT. UNDER SOME CIRCUMSTANCES, DEBRIEF HIM.

COLBY: RIGHT.

WELL,

THI

NK -

I: UNDERSTAND

MR.

YOUR DOUBT ON

THIS

QUESTION:

THINK YOU HAVE

TO LOOK AT THE

CIRCUM

STANCES.

A

OSWALD WAS WHAT CAN BE

ON MR.

OSWALDi

WHICH

THE

CALLED A DEFECTOR TO

FBI GAVE

TO

US,

" THE

SOVIET

REPORT

ABOUT

IT.

UNION.

WE DID HAVE

IN

WE ALSO RECEIVED SOME

ERIAL

FROM: THE EMBASSY

MOSCOW ABOUT MR.

•OSWALD,

• WHEN

TRIED

DISCLAIM HIS

ENSHIP.

WE

HAD A LITTLE FILE,

FBI,

THEREFORE,

HE

TO

CITIZ

ON MR.

OSWALD,

WHICH CONSISTED

ORTS

FROM THE

OF

THE

TWO

REP

THE TWO REPORTS

FROM

THE EMBASSY

IN.

MOSCOW

AND

ONE REPORT

DEPARMENT

FROM

OF. NAVY.

THE MARINES,

THINK

IT WAS

INDICATING

SOME EXCHANGE

THE

BETWEEN

THEM.

THAT'S ALL

WE HAD

UNTIL

ICO

ROUGHLY OCTOBER OF

1963

RATHER:

DURING: HIS

VISIT

TO

MEX

IN SEPTEMBER 1963,

YOU HAD

NO,

NO;

NO.

OSWALD UNDER SURVEILLANCE

AT

BOTH

WE

DID

NOT

THE RUSSIAN AND CUBAN

EMBASSIES? COLBY::

OF

HAVE HIM UNDER

SURVEILLANCE

WE

BECAME AWARE

CONTACT HE MADE

WITH

EACH. OF

THOSE EMBASSIES

RATHER:

DID: YOU

MAKE VOICE

RECORDI

NGS

OF HIM? COLBY: I

THINK THERE WERE,

YES

RATHER:

N A

PHOTOGRAPH

OF ANOTHER

MAN

WHY

WAS

THE

WARREN COMMISSION

AT THE

CUBAN EMBASSY,

WRONGLY

IDENTIFIED

AS

•LEE

GIVE

HARVEY

0

SWALD?

COLBY:

WELL:

IT WASN'T WRONGLY

IDENTIFIED

.AS

LEE

HARVEY

OSWALD.

WE

KNEW

WAS

IN

THAT

HE

THESE EMBASSIES AT A CERTAIN DAY,

AND WE LOOKED AT

• THE

CAPABILITY

WE HAD

TO PH

OTOGRAPH CERTAIN THINGS IN THE CITY.

AND

WE

LOOKED

AT

THROUGH

THE

NG

THAT

WE

PHOTOGRAPHS,

•HOPI

COULD FIND,

PERHAPS,

A PHOTOGRAPH OF

HIM

AS

CAME:

IN OR WENT

OUT: 0F

THESE EMBASSIES.

HE

ONE

WE

DID

FOCUS

ON ONE

WHICH WE

THOUGHT

MIGHT BE

HIM.

AND

THIS W5

WN

UP

TO

-AN UNIDENTIFIED

WHITE

MALE.

THAT

THE IDENTIFICATION

3*2

-Enu

BUT

ORAS FLORE

LABELED

WAS

UP IN CASE

IT

WAS

COULD

H

WRONGLY LABELED:

BE

HELPFUL

AT

THAT

TIME.

BUT

THERE

TOGRAI

WAS

IT TURNED

OUT NOT

TO BE MR.

OSWALD,

CLEARLY.

AND HE.

16

THI

DAY; DON'T KNOW WHO HE IS.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

00.0

CLIP000035

SR1

L1 PRESS CONFERENCE 19 NOVEMBER 1975

EE

OR EXTREMIST GROUPS. EITHER DOMESTIC OR FOREIGN. WHO MIGHT FEEL CALLED UPON TO TAKE

SOME

SUCH ACTION

HE

AGAINST THESE PEOPLE.

AM CONCERNED BECAUSE

THE

TESTIMONY GIVEN IN

SENATE

COMMITTEE WAS GIVEN WITH

MY FULL ENDORSEMENT AND

SUPPORT.

WE WAIVED

THE

T

SECR

ECY AGREEMENTS THAT APPLIED

TO OUR EMPLOYEES.

FOR

EXAMPLE.

WE

PROVIDED LARGE AMOUNTS

F DOCUMENTATION TO THE SENATE COMMITTEE

SO

THAT THEY WOULD

BE

FULLY

INFORMED ON

THES

EVENTS

THE PEOPLE

WHO DID TESTIFY,

I BELIEVE

IN GOOD FAITH.

ANTICIPATED THAT THEIR

EX

ECUTIVE SESSION.

TESTIMONY WOULD NOT BE

FOLLOWED BY

THEIR

EXPOSURE

FOR THEIR

INDIVIDUAL

ACTIVITIES.

CONCERNED THAT THERE

BE SOME

FEELING. THAT

THERE BE

TO

REVEAL

THESE ACTIVITIES

BECAUSE

THERE

IS

SOME

DISAPPROVAL

OF

• THEM

AN OBLIGATION

THIS DISAPPROVAL,

F

COURSE,

SHARED BY: MANY

OF US.

THE PRESIDENT HAS

EXPRESSED

HIS CLEAR POLICY AGAINS

T RNY

SUCH ACTIVITY.

I HAVE

ISSUED DIRECTIVES

IN THIS AGENCY.

TWO YEARS AGO WHICH CLEAR

LY PROHIBIT ANY INVOLVEMENT IN ASSASSINATION ACTIVITY;

THERE'S REALLY

NO QUESTION

A

BOUT WHETHER

THIS IS

GOOD OR BAD

SE AN

EXTRA LEGAL RETALIATION ON PEOPLE

BAD.

THE

REAL

WHO AT ONE

QUESTION

15

WHETHER WE WILL

IMPO

TIME

DID WHAT

THE

GENERAL CONSENSUS

OF THE

PEOPLE

AND THE COMMAND

THEM

THE

ME.

BELIEVE THAT.

IF THERE

STRUCTURE

IS

AROUND

THOUGHT

WAS

RPPROPRIATE

•AT

TI

DIAPPROVAL OF

THESE

ACTIVITIES,

THERE

ARE

VEHICLES

BY

WHICH WE

CAN TAKE

STEPS

TO ENSURE

THAT

THEY

COULD

BE

DO NOT RECUR

THERE ARE

ALSO

HICH

VEHICLES

BY

ANY PARTICULAR PUNISHMENT

METED OUT

ACCORDING TO

THE

AT

LAW,

BUT I

THINK

TH

THE EXTRA LEGAL,

EX

POST

FACTO

EXPOSURE OF OUR

PEOPLE

TO HOSTILE

AND IRRATIONAL

HLIATION IS NOT WITHIN

ECT OF PEOPLE

THE

TRADITION

WHO VOLUNTARILY

OF

OUR COUNTRY

AND,

CERTAINLY,

CE TO THEIR COUNTRY

ACCEPTED

THE LIMITATIONS OF LIVES

OF

IS

TOO

MUCH

ANONYMITY

TO

RET

NCERNS ME IS THE

IN

THE

INTELLIGENCE

BUSINESS.

I THINK ONE PARTICULAR

AND

EXP

SERVI

THING

COMMITTEE

RULE ON THIS SUBJECT WHICH SAYS THAT

ANY

THAT

CO

INDIVIDUAL WHO BEL

IEVES HIMSEL

ES

SHOULD BE INCLUDED.

QUESTION:

IRRESPONSIBLE? MR.

COLBY:

NO,

I WOULDN'T

SPONSIBLE

THINK

IT IS WRONG

TO EXPOSE

THESE NAMES,

CALL

IT

IRRE

BUT

DON'T

THINK

I'D LIKE

DIFFERENT KINDS OF ADJECTIVES

TO

PU

ON IT.

QUESTION: MR.

COLBY,

DOES

WHITE

THAT

YOU

ARE

MAKING

COLBY:

TACHED

TO

THESE NAMES?

ING

THIS APPEAL? MR-ALKING ABOUT--MURDER,

THE

HOUSE KNOW

QUESTION:

WHAT

SORT

ACTIONS

ARE

AT

IT

WHAT ARE WE

OR.

MR.

COLBY:

NOT

TO TALK ABOUT

MYSELF

:.?

GO

I HAVEN'T

READ

THE

REPORT

ITSELF

WAS

TOLD

BY MY

OFFICE

R

THAT

THEY WERE INCLUDED

IN THERE

IN

FASHION

WHICH WOULD

PUT

THEM

UNDER

QUESTION:

ARE

THEY

ASSOCIATED

WITH SERIOUS CRIMES? MR.

SOME

THREAT

COLBY:

TH

THEIR

ACTIVITIES

IN

THEY

ARE

ASSOCIATED

WI

PAST

YEARS,

WHICH

I THINK

WE.

MANY OF

US,

HND

MYSELF,

REJECTA

TODAY

QUESTION:

MR

COLBY,

?. MR.

NO,

DID

DID

THE WHITE HOUSE SUGGEST THAT

QUESTION:

MR

COLBY,

YOU MAKE

É THIS APPERRANCE

COLBY:

IN THE

NING

YoU.

PAST WE'VE HAD SOME

DIFFICULTY

DRA

OUT ON THE SUBJECT

OF

ASSASSINATIONS

NOW IT

MADE

PUBLIC;

APPEARS

THAT

THIS

REPORT WILL

BE

CAN I ASK

YOU.

INVOLVED

IN;

THAT

THEY

IS

IT

YOUR

POSITION IN ANY ACTIVITIES THAT

THE CIA BECAME

WERE

ACTING AT

THE DIRECTION OF

THE WHITE HOUSE? IS

THAT. YOUR

POSITION OR

WILL

YOU

GIVE

A

POSITION? MR.

COLBY:

REALLY AM

NOT TOTALLY INFORMED

THAT.

THE

COMMITTEE HAS

CONDUCTED

ON

AN

EXHAUSTIVE INVESTIGRTION

IN WHICH

THEY'VE

INTO A

LOT

OF

THINGS DUTSIDE

LOOKED

OF CIA,

S0

I'M

SURE

THEIR KNOWLEDGE

OF

THE

WHOLE

PICTIRE

IS LARGER

THAN

THAT AVAILABLE

TO

ME.

TO

AND I BELIEVE

THAT THE RECORD IN CIA

MURKY,

AS

I5.

EXACTLY

WHO

APPROVED

WHAT,

WHEN.

AND

THAT IS ONE

USED

TO

GET

IT.

OF

THE REASONS

THE

9102 5E

TO

PEF

INTO A

DETAILED DISCUSSION ABOUT

THE

I WOULD REFER YO-

REPORT NHEN

IT

DOES

COME OUT;: RS

THE

RESULT

COMMITTEE'S INVESTIGATION INTO THIS.

HOP: OLLY.

WITHOUT

THE NAMES.

QUESTION: WHEN YOU

TALKED WITH

THE OFFICER WHO READ THE REPORT.

AND

BRIEFED YOU, DID HE COMMENT ALONG THE LINES OF THE QUESTION I'M ASKING: REGARDING THE C

UNCL

SION

OF THE COMMITTEE? MR

COLBY:

NO, ' I

DIDN'T ASK HIM

THAT.

I WAS ONLY

IN

SECURITY PROBLEMS THAT WERE

INVOLVED.

THAT'S HHAT

WE WERE

INTERESTED

THE

INVITED

TO LOOK

AT,

THAT

WAS

PROBLEM

THAT I FELT

WAS

ASKED

BY

THE

SENATE

TO

MAKE A

JUDGMENT

ABOUT. AND I DID

I WAS

NOT ASKED

TO REVIEW

THE

ACCURACY OR NONACCURACY OF THEIR CONCLUSIONS,

ASSESSMENTS,

OND.

OF

OF

THEIR

THEIR DETAILED

REPORTS

QUESTION::

WAS

THE

OFFICIAL

IF I COULD FOLLOW'UP FOR

JUST A

PROCEDURE,

SEC

UNDERSTAND: THAT THAT

BUT CAN I ASK YOU--WERE THERE

NO COPIES WITHIN

ING

THIS ORGANIZATION?

MR

QUESTION:

I'M

NOT

TALKING

COLBY. /NO,

HE READ IT UP THERE.

HE DID NOT

BR

ANY HOME.

ABOUT:

THAT PARTICULAR COPY

MR.

COLBY:

I- KNOW

OF

NO

OTHER COPIES,

AND

I'M

SURE THAT WE HAVE NO OTHER COPY.

QUESTION: MR COLBY,

WOUL

D YOU CONSIDER SCHEDULING: ANOTHER

SESSION AS. THIS AFTER THEY PROCEED

ORT? MR.

COLBY: WELLA

SUCH

WITH

THE

REP

MY DISAPPROVAL OF

QUESTION:

I-STILL STAND ON

A DISCUSSION OF&ASSASSINATION

TO ITS

WOULD

YOU DISAPPROVE OF ANY

SUBSEQUENT

DISCUSSION

OF

THE REPORT SUBSEQUENT

WER

TO

PUBLICATION? MR. COLBY: WELL,

THAT

I'D LIKE TO READ THE REPORT

TO DETERMINE THE

ANS

QUESTION. I REALLY DON'T KNOW QUESTION:

WILL THE CIA BE ASKED

TO PROVIDE

PROTECTION FOR THESE PEOPLE:

IF,

IN FACT,

THEIR NAMES ARE PUBLISHED?

THERE'S

VERY

LIMITED

PROTECTION WE

CAN GIVE THEM

IN THIS

ICE

SERVICE

HERE, OR ANY SUCH ACTIVITY.

WE WOULD CERTAINLY HELP

COUNTRY THEM

MR.

COLBY:

WE DO NOT

WELL

TO

HRVE

POL

THE DEGREE WE

---

## Page 7

13-00000

COULD.

QUESTION:

EARLIER,

WHEN YOU WERE TALKING RBOUT HOSTILE GROUPS, YOU SAID VARIOUSS

OF

US HAVE RECEIVED THREATENING PHONE CALLS AND MAIL

WELL.

CERTAINLY

HAVE YOU PERSONALLY RECEIVED TH

REATS? MR.

COLBY:

QUESTION: CAN YOU

TELL US ANYTHING ABOUT

:THEM? MR.

DIFFERENT KINDS

HAS

THERE

BEEN"

ANY

OF

PHONE CALLS AND CRANK MAIL AND THAT SORT OF. THING:

COLBY:

EFFORT TO DO A

TRACE,

FIND OUT THEIR ORIGINS? MR.

QUESTION:

COLBY: IN

N CASES..

YES... TO FIND OUT WHAT THE ORIGIN OF:

CERTAI

YOU NOT SIMPLY TOLD THE SENATE: COMMITTEE THEY CAN•T RELEASE INFORMATION THAT YOU HAVE

CLASSIFIED

UNTIL.

YOU LET

THEM DO

IT? MR

COLBY:

BECAUSE

•BELIEVE

THE INFORMATION

FROM

THE

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

INVESTIGATION WAS

SENT UP

WOULD BE HANDLED

THERE

THAT

IT

IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER.

WITH

THE

STATEMENT

BY THE

SENATE

THERE WAS NOT A, LEGAL

N

TAKEN AT

THAT TIME.

QUESTION:

SENATOR: CHURCH MADE A POINT

POSITIO

S. GIVEN TO

THEM UNDER CLASSIFICATION,

AND

OF SAYING THIS MATERIAL

WA

WHAT I

DON"

T UNDERSTAND IS.

TAKEN THE STERN LEGAL POSITION;

EITHER YOU OR THE WHITE HOUSE,

THAT:

WHY YOU HAVE NOT

YOU TOOK IN A

SIM

ILAR

CIRCUMSTANCE OVER

THE CLASSIFICATION--THE LAST NEWS CONFERENCE YOU HAD WAS OVER

HE®

N

MATTER

OF UNILATERAL DECLASSIFICATION.

WHY IS THIS NOT AN ISSUE OF 2 MR. COLBY:

THAT. CASE,:

:IT: WAS DECLASSIFIED. AND I SAID IT WAS WRONG AT THE TIME AND WE LATER WOR

KED OUT

RELATIONSHIP WHICH AVOIDED THAT KIND OF THING HAPPENING AGRIN QUESTION: MR

COLBY, WHY SHOULD A REPORT. ON ASSASSINATION PLOTS NOT BE MADE PUGLIC? MR. COLBY: BECA

USE

•T.

THINK

IT.

CAN HARM OUR COUNTRY,

AND

I THINK THAT THE EVIDENCE IS NOT VERY CLEAR B

ECAUSE OF

THE

ATMOSPHERE

IN WHICH

THAT KIND OF ACTIVITY MAY HAVE

"5

TAKEN: PLACE

IN:THE 50

AND: 60°S. AND

SULT:

TO

SEE THAT NO

BENEFIT TO OUR COUNTRY

IS TO BE

GAINED

LOSS:

OUR

COUNTRY.

CIA

HAS HAD A VERY HARD TIME FÜR THE LAST

COUPLE AND COMES ES REE

OF A STATEMENT OF MY

TESTIMONY BEFORE ONE OF THE CONMITTEES,

A STATEMENT OF

MONY.

TESTI

WHICH

WAS

INACCURATELY STATED

AS

CIA: ENGAGING IN DESTABILIZATION THAT WORD HAS

B

ECOME A WORLDWIDE

WORD,

PUT IN MY MOUTH,

ALTHOUGH I NEVER SAID

IT'i

AND IT IS

THAT

PREC

ISE

EXAMPLE OF

WILL

RVICES,

THE KIND OF THING THAT

THINK WE

FACE

IN

THE FUTURE AS HOSTILE

SE

HOSTILE

COUNTRIES:

HOSTILE

POLITICAL

GROUPS,:

DELVE

THROUGH

THE

INDIVIDUAL

ALLE

GATIONS,

QUOTATIONS

AND: MATERIAL THAT WILL

SHOW IN A REPORT ON

THIS SUBJECT. AND

WILL

USE IT AGAINST OUR COUNTRY FOR THE NEXT

NUMBER OF YEARS.

QUESTION: DO YOU

THINK IT ALS

WRONG F

3

SHARE: RS MUCH INFORMATION AS WE CAN WITH

CONCLUSIONS: AND

FIRM RECOMMENDATI

ONS FOR THE FUTURE AS APPROPRIATE FOR A COMMITTEE.

ONLY ARGUING

ABOUT THE D

ETAILS OF

IT AND, PARTICULARLY, THE

NAMES OF

AVE

THE

PEOPLE

INVOLVED.

QUESTIGN: COULD WE H

T

THE BENEFIT OF YOUR VIEWS

ON THE REPORT AFTER IT'S PÜBLISHED? MR. COLBY:

WELL,

THA

IS AN ANSWER TO AN EARLIER QUESTION AS TO WHETHER

• HAVE ANOTHER CONFERENCE AFTER.

IT'S PUBLISHED;

AND

I WOULD HAVE TO READ IT BEFORE I C

OULD ANSWER

THAT QUESTION:

QUESTION:

COULD WE HAVE TELEPHONES IF YOU HAVE

ANOTHER

5

CONFERENCE?. MR.

COLBY: WE CERTAINLY WILL TRY

TO GET

IN

PRES

TOUCH WITH

YOU A LITTLE

BIT S

OONER THAN WE DID TODAY:

QUESTION:

NO.

LLY AREN'T PREPARED FOR

A

REGULAR

PRESS' CONFE

TELEPHONES

TO FILE

ON? MR

COLBY: WE REA

CONFERENCE

SITUATION HERE

QUESTION:

MR

COLBY

HOW MANY NAMES WERE REMOVED AT THE .

CIA'S

REQUEST FROM THE REPORT? MR. COLBY: WELL,

---

## Page 8

13-00000

00

SR1

EE

0

CLIP000039

L1 JANUARY 21, 1976 DANIEL SCHORR INTERVIEWS WILLIAM E. COLBY

THERE HAS BEEN A NEED TO GO THROUGH THE PROCESS OF BRINGING AMERICAN:

INTELLIGENCE CLEA

RLY

UNDER AMERICA'S CONSTITUTION

AND LEGAL

SYSTEM.

INTELLIGENCE

WAS

THAT

SOMEHOW

IT WAS

OUTSIDE OF LAW,

THINK

IT

THE

TRADITIONAL

REALLY DIDN'T

CONCEPT

OF

HAVE ANYTYING MU

CH TO DO WITH LAW, AND IT

SOMEHOW WAS

SOMETHING THAT NATIONS

WELL.

THAT'S NO GOOD FOR AMERICA.

WE

DID

BUT DIDN'T

TALI:

ASJUT

EXPECT OUR GOVERNMENT

WORK UNDER

THE

275

D UNDER THE CONSTITUTION,

AND WE'VE BEEN IN

THE PROCESS

OF DEMONSTRATING

CLE

ARLY.

TO US IN THE

INTELLIGENCE PROFESSION,

THAT

AS

WELL

FIS• TO THE

AMERICAN PEOPLE

• E

SCHORR: DID

You

THINK

.THAT

IT COULD

HANDLED

AN,

• INTERNAL

REFORM PROCESS:

ANY PUBLIC EXPLANATION OR

BE

-PUBLIC

RETRIBUTION? DIRECTOR

UT

COLBY:

WITH

WELL,

:]

THINK

FR

ANKLY:

BUT

THEN

AND

WE WENT THROUGH

SIX

MONTHS OF

EXCITEMENT

ALL

SORTS OF

ACCUAATTONS

SENSATIONALISM,

AND I

THINK

THE

NORMAL

CITIZEN IS

INCLINED TO

THINK THAT I

SPEND

MY DAY

IN

THIS

OFFICE

PLOTTING

ASSASSINATIONS.

WELL,

THE

INDICATED

THAT

ACTUAL FINDING OF

THE

COMMITT

EE WAS

REALLY QUITE REVEALING,

BECAUSE IT

THIS

AGENCY,

IN THE

LAST

25

EARS,

DID

GO OUT

TO

TRY TO BRING

ABOUT

THE

END OF

THE LIFE

OF

WHOM DIED

THO

AS A RESULT. OF

N THE

PROCESS OF

OPERATIONS.

CERTAINLY;

CERTAENEOR THERE

THERE WERE OTHER

OF

PEOPLE

INDIVIDUALS,

NEITHER

WHO'VE

BEEN KILLED

HAYE

D.

THERE ARE FOREIGNERS

WHO HAVE BEEN

ARE

OUR

OWN

OFFICERS

WHO

BEEN

KILLE

KILLED

IN

THE

COURSE

OF

REVOLUTIONS

AND

COUPS,

HINGS

OF

THAT NATURE

BUT

THERE

HAVEN'T

BEEN ANY

ASSASSINATIONS

CONDUCTED

BY

THIS

AGEN

CY.

SCHORR:

BUT

THEY TRIED.

DIRECTOR

COLEY:

THERE

WERE

TWO

SITUATIONS

IN WHICH

CLEARLY

THIS PARTICULAR

REPORT

INDICATES THAT

THERE WERE

STEPS TAKEN HERE

BRING

THIS

BUT THEY DIDN•T HAPPEN.

AND,

YOU KNOW, OVER 25 YEARS,

TO

ABOUT

THAT THAT.

CHARACTERIZES

THE WORK

OF

THE

AGENCY

I THINK

IS

JUST PLAIN WRONG.

TO

AND

SAY

I THINK THE AMERICAN PEOPLE A

RE GOING

TO SEE

THROUGH THE

SENSATIONAL TREATMENT TO

THE REALITY THAT'S

UNDERNERTH IT

WHEN

THEY GET A

SERIOUS ASSESSMENT

OF

WHAT

THE FACTS

ACTUALLY

WERE

PEOPLE WHO DON'T WANT YOU

SCHORR:

ARE

THERE

TO CLEAN UP YOUR

SHOP BECAUSE

THEY'RE

AFRAID OF

THE

CHAIN

RE

ACTION WHICH MAY AFFECT THEIR

THAT

CAREERS? DIRECTOR

COLBY:

EFFECT,

NO,

THINK

OH,

THAT

I

DON'T

I'VE NEVER

HEARD

OF ANY

SUGGESTION TO

NO.

ANY DIFFERENCES

THAT MAY

HAVE

EXISTED IN HOW

TO

HANDLE

THIS WHOLE

INVESTIGATION

SITUATION

WERE

GOOD-FAITH DIFFERENCE

S AS

TO HOW

TO

ENABLE

A. VERY IMPORTANT INTELLIGENCE FUNCTION AND AGENCY TO CONTINUE

SERVE THE

COUNTRY IN

TO

HE BEST WAY IT CAN

SCHORR: YOU SAID THAT YOU NEVER ORDERED ANY ASSASSINATION AND THAT

YOU

WERE NEVER

ANY OF

THOSE PLANS FOR ASSASSINATION.

YOU SAYING

PERSONALLY

INVOLVED IN

OLBY:

NONE

OF

THE THINGS THAT HAPPENED

DON-T THINK SO

THE ONES THAT

WAS

ENOUGH

•TO OUTRAGE

YET.

ARE

YOU? DIRECTOR C

I KNEW OF

I DIDN'T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT

OSE

NO,

THAT

TWO CASES

THEM.

I WAS TELLING YOU ABOUT

AT.

THE TIME.

TH

I INDICATED THAT WHEN I DISCOYERED

THEY WERE: LONG

IN THE PAST;

THEY OBVIOUSLY

HAD BEEN THE

SUBJECT

OF DIRECTIYES

TH

AT

WE WOULD NOT

DO THAT ANYMORE;

AND

I REALLY DIDN'T

YEAH,

BUT

WAS

THINK ANYTHING PARTICULARLY

ABOUT

THEM AT

THAT TIME

•SCHORR:

THERE

OPENING: OF MAIL

AND.

:A

CERTAIN AMOUNT O

ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

CERTAIN AMOUNT OF PHUSTCAL SURVEILLANCE

OR

COLBY: WELL,

AND

A

THE

OPENING

OF

THE MAIL.

THINK,

IS

A VERY GOOD

FIND

DIRECT

EXAMPLE OF THE

WE

HAVE.

THE OPENING

OF

THE MAIL

IS

FAUBLE

ILLEGALI

IT SAYS

50

IN

THE LAW.

NO QUESTICN FROU

IT.

AND ONCE WE

DISCOVERED

IT,

WE

STOPPED

ITs'

IN

1973

SCHORR:

TWENTY YEARS LATER.

IRECTOR COLBY:

READING

BUT:

LET'S:LOOK AT WHEN IT STARTED AND WHAT IT WAS DEVOTED TO. IT WAS A

THE MAIL BETWEEN THE UNITED

3

OF DISCLOSURE HAS PROBABLY ABOUT

RUN ITS COURSE,

AND YET THERE IS A RESIDUE OF

QUESTI

ONS.

SOME,

LIKE

CHARLES

COLSON,

CONTINUE

SUGGESTING

THAT

THERE WAS

. A

SORT

OF

A• CONSPIR

ACY IN THE

CIA.

AGAINST

THE

•NIXON WHITE

HOUSE,

THAT

THE

ANY

CIA PLAYED

SOME

PART:

IN

BRINGIN

G DOWN NIXON.

THINK

THE

TRUTH? DIRECTOR COLBY:

ABSOLUTELY NOT

RECORD

THIS

AGENCY HAS"

IF

ANYTHING

SHOWS VERY

CLEARLY

THAT;

IF

ANYTHING,

IT'S

TOO LOYAL

:. AND:

" TOO

RES

PONSIVE

TO PAST

PRESIDENTS,

THAT IT

PRECISELY RESPONSIVENESS TO PRESIDENTS THAT

SOME CASES TODAY IS NOW CRITICIZED.

IS

IN

WHERE WE HAVE

REACTED.

THINK GIVING

THE RED

TO MR

HUNT..WAS AN

EXAMPLE OF RESPONDING

TO WHAT

•SEEMED TO BE A

•NIG

WHITE HOUSE.PRESIDENT

ILLY-SPONSORED,

AS

REQUEST.

AND WE

SOON AS WE

SAW

SHOULDN•T. HAVE DONE IT, AND LATER WE WITHDREW FROM IT

THE DEPTH

THERE'S NO

CONNECTION IN

THIS

TO WHICH IT SEEMED

TO BE GOING

BUT

ABSOLUTELY NOT,

NO

AGENCY WITH ANY CONSPIRACY AGAINST MR.

NIXON. WE ASSOLUT

ELY HAD NOTHING.

TO DO WITH

THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. THINK THAT.

IN A

WAY,.

THE CIA HAS

BEEN, INDEED.: THE

THAT HAVE HAPPENED. 20

THINK.

LINE.

STATISTICALLY,:

YOU

CAN FIND

I

ABUSES

THE CIA FREQUENTLY LEAD THE

HEAD

AND

THEN LATER WE

FIND

THAT

THAT

THERE ARE CONSIDERABLY MORE-OR

SMALL

ER

PORTION.

SCHORR:

IF YOU HAD

PROJECT,

THAT THIS

WAS REALLY

WHAT WOULD YOU SEE THIS AGENCY,

OR

UND

WHATEVER NAME IT IS,

FROM

NOW.

THINK

WILL

BE

TSAT LOOKTNE THKEC

SAY,

10 YEARS FROM NOW? DIRECTOR COLBY:

THING

TEN YEAR

THE

THINK WE WILL SEE,

THE INCREASE

IN INFORMATION AND

THE

THE MOST EXCITING

INCREASE IN

OUR ABILITY TO PERCEIVE

CHANGESSE

ETLETIES

EXIST IN

BETWEEN DIFFERENT

THE

SOCIETIES,: BETWEEN DIFFERENT CULTUR

ES,

THAT

THE

WORLD

BETWEEN DIFFERENT KINDS OF PEOPLES.

IN A WAY, YOU KNOW.:

THE OLD IDEA USED

TO

BE

TH

---

## Page 9

13-00000

00:0

CLIP000045

SR1

L1

FEBRUARY 2. 1976 CHICAGO TRIBUNE BOB WIEDRICH INTERVIEWS WILLIAM E. COLBY

EE

3

F STRATEGIC SERVICES,

SAID HE HAD HOPED CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRIES WOULD PRESENT A BALANC

ED

PORTRAIT

OF

CIA OPERATIONS

QUOTE I HOPED

THEY WOULD

DEMONSTRATE

OUR MISTAKES

OF

TH

E

PAST

28 YEARS.

BUT

ALSO BRING OUT THAT WE HAD

TAKEN

CORRECTIVE

IES OF DIRECTIVES

IN 1973, UNQUOTE COLBY. TOLD US.

INCIDENTALLY,

ACTIONS THROUGH A SER

THAT WAS THE YEAR COLB

BECAME

THE CIA DIRECTOR

QUOTE I ALSO HOPED

THE INVESTIGATIONS

HOULD DESCRIBE WHAT

I

NTELLIGENCE WORK IS

ALL

ABOUT,

UNQUOTE, HE CONTINUED QUOTE UNFORTUNATELY

THE SENSATIO

NAL

QUALITIES OF

OUR WORK

IS WHAT

SOME OF THE PRESS AND CONGRESS

PICKED UP

ON.

FOR

UNQUOTE

EXAMPLE,

COLBY CITED NEWS

PHOTOS

OF

SEN.

FRANK CHURCH.

THE

DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIA

L

ASPIRANT FROM

IDAHO WHO SERVED

AS

DART

SENTATE INTELLIGENCE

COMMITTEE

:CHAIRMAN..

GUN DESIGNED BY CIA WEAPONS TECHNICIANS.

QUOTE

THE

GUN WAS

HOLDING

NEVER USED. UNQUOTE

C

OLBY DECLARED.

QUOTE YET,

THAT WAS

THE END RESULT OF A SIX-MONTH INVESTIGATION

THE

SA

ME APPLIED

TO ALL

THE TALES OF ASSASSINATION

PLOTS.

THERE WERE

ACTUALLY ONLY

TWO TARGE

TS AND NOBODY DIED.

TAKE

THE

STORIES

OF

ALLEGEDLY MASSIVE DOMESTIC

BY THE

CIA.

THE

AT MOST

TE ROCKEFELLER

INTELLIGENCE

FOUR-MONTH INVESTIGATION.

• AND

THE

COMMISSION

CONDUCTED A

THINGS WE DID

WERE PERFECTLY

IT

FOUND TH

PROPER.

THE PRESIDENT

SOME

OF

THE

THINGS WE

DID BECAUSE

TOLD US

E

DID

WE

TO.

THERE WAS

A QUESTIONABLE: GRAY AREA.

AND

SOME OF

THE

THINGS W

SHOULD NOT HAVE DONE.

WE

SHOULDN'T HAVE OPENED

MAIL

BUT REMEMBER,

THAT

PROGR

AM WAS STARTED

IN 1953

IN THE MIDST OF

THE COLD WAR,

WHEN RUSSIA

WAS

CLEARLY: DEFINED

THREAT

AND WE MONITORED MAIL TO AND FROM THE SOVIET UNION.

THOSE

THINGS.

HAVE BEEN SEN

SATIONALIZED AND

THEY HAVE

OBSCURED

THE REAL NATURE OF

RMERICAN

INTELLIGENCE

IS

E BEST

IT

TH

IN THE

WORLD.

IT OPERATES

UNDER THE LAW AND

THE CONSTITUTION

HAS

REVOLUTION

IZED THE PROFESSION OF INTELLIGENCE BY UTILIZING OPENLY

IT

AND CLANDESTINELY ACQUIRED

ORMATION.

ESTIMATE

OUR

SUPERIOR TECHNOLOGY HAS CHANGED THE WHOLE FRAME DE REFERENCE. ME USEDING

THE

NUMBER

TODAY,.WE COUNT THEM AND MEASURE THEM

BY

TECHNICAL

AND

ELECTRONICS.

WE HAVE DEVISED

NEW. WAYS: TO

RECISE.

50

INFORMATION;

AND

TO MAKE IT MORE METHODICAL •AND P

THAT IS

THE REALITY.

NOT

THE

DART

GUN.

NOT THE ASSASSINATION

PLOTS

DOES

THE

CIA

HAVE A JOB

LITTLE

EVEN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS

ABROAD. WE DO VERY

OF THIS

85

AND

19605,

IN

THE 195

THE FIGURE WAS MUCH HIGHER

IN THE EARLY 1950S,

SUCH OPERATIONS ACCOUNTE

FOR OVER 50 PERCENT. OF THE

BUDGET,

A REFLECTION OF

S WE FACED

BUT DON'T GET

THE

THE

TIMES:

AND THE

THREAT

WRONG

THESE ARE PRIMARILY JUST GIVING HELF

0

SOME

GROUP IN SOME COUNTRY

THAT WANTS

TO ACT

OUR BEST

INTERESTS

AND AGAINST

THE

OVIET UNION.

NOW,

NOT

OUR

WE ARE FACED WITH THE

SOVIETS PUSHING

AGAIN.:

INFORMATION.

THE

SOVIET

WE HAVE PROBLEMS

THEY

HAVE.

PROBLEM IS

TO GET

ORMATION:

PROBLEM: IS

TO UNDERSTAND

INF

WE HAVE

TO

GET WHAT IS KEPT

SECRET

FROM US.

THEY GET

SO MUCH INFORMATION THE

MUST

SEPARATE

•THE WHEAT FROM THE

CHAFF.

A PERSON

TS FOOLISH

TO SPY

ON AMERICA

YOU •C

AN

READ

T

THE

MOST

OF IT

.IN

THE NEWSPAPERS

I

WISH I COULD READ AS FREELY IN THE PAPERS ABOU

MILITARY POSTURE STATEMENT

AND APPROPRI

---

## Page 10

13-00000

CLIP000047

L1

FEBRUARY 6, 1976 PANORAMA INTERVIEN WITH WILLIAM COLBY

EE

SOME PEOPLE, SOME OF THE CRITICS, FOR

INSTANCE, OF THE CURRENT INVESTIGATIONS WOULD SA

4, QUOTE

WE HAVE TOLD TOO MUCH.

WILLIAM

COLBY HAS TOLD TOO MUCH.

HAVE LOST THE EDGE

UNQUOTE COLBY: WELL. I THINK THE

ANSWER TO THAT IS

THAT THE CRITICS SAY THAT FORMERL

Y WE TOLD TOO LITTLE, WHICH MAY BE PARTLY RIGHT.

AND TODAY'I THINK

THAT: AT THE MOMENT

WE ARE SAYING TOO MUCH.

I'M WAITING

CH: WHEN

FOR

THE PENDULUM TO GET

BACK INTO THE CENTER.

POVI

YOU WERE SUBJECTED TO THE

INVESTIGATIONS BY THE SENATE ANDTHE HOUSES ONE: OF

YOUR FIRST STATEMENTS WAS,

SENTED BEFORE

THE

SENATE

IN A 30-PAGE DOCUMENT THAT YOU PRE

COMMITTEE.

UOTE WOULD YOU HOLD YOURSELF:

TO

THAT

DESCRIPTION,

OR WOULD YOU LIKE TO CHANGE

COLBY: ND:

I THINK

THREE:

THAT WAS DEAD RIGHT

AND

OF

I THINK THAT HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED

BY TWO

F

THE

• «to «poo

OR,

THE REPORTS THAT HAVE BEEN PUBLISHED

SINCE THAT TIME: THE ROCKEF

ELLER COMMISSION

REPORT, THE SENATE

COMMITTEE REPORT ON ASSASSINATIONS*

AND THE SENATE

COMMITTEE

REPORT: ON CHILE.""I

SAID THAT

THERE WERE AFEW: MISS

TEPS:

IN OUR 28-YEAR HISTO

RYA.

AND MISDEEDS

3. 4.

THINK I USED ALSO THE PHRASE.

SAYS

THE

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION REPORT

THAT THE

THRT

VAST MAJORITY OF OUR

CERTAIN

ACTIVITY WAS PERFECTLY PROFER AND WITHIN OUR CHARTE

. THINGS

WE DID WERE

UNPROPER,

SOME DONE AT THE SPECIFIC DIRECTION: OF

TH

E PRESIDENT. SOME DONE BECAUSE THERE WAS A GRAY. AREA AS TO WHAT SHOULD BE DONE AND WHA

SHOULD

NOT BE

DONE, AND

SOME DONE

BECAUSE OF AN

EXCESS OF ACTIVITYA

AND I THINK. HON

ESTLY,

AT A PERIOD WHEN THERE

WAS SOME CONFUSION AS

TO WHETHER WE WERE DOING:

THE RIGHT.

THING: FOR: THE GOVERNMENT

AT ALL

• Ят

THE

TIME.

THE OPENING OF

BEGAN IN 1953 OPENING MAIL TO AND FROM THE SOVIET UNION.

THE

• MAIL. FOR

INSTANCE

AMERICA.

WHICH WAS RUNNING

SPIES

IN

IT WAS IMPROPER, WE

SHOULD NOT HAVE DONE IT, BUT I

UNINTELLIGIBLE›.

AS

THINK

THE

CONTEXT

OF IT &

FOR THE MASSIVE DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY, I THINK IF YOU'LL

LOOK THROUGH

THE REPORTS, YOU

3

LL FIND THAT WE ESSENTIALLY HAD THREE AGENTS WHO DID THINGS THAT THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE.

WELL

THAT'S

HARDLY

A MASSIVE

INTENSIVE INVESTIGATION.

THE

ACTIVITY.

THE®

ASSASSINATION REPORT: AFTER

SIX MONTHS

OF

SENATE COMMITTEE

DISCOVERED THAT WE DIDN'T ASSASSINATE

AN

YBODY.

THERE WERE TWO ATTEMPTS

ALS

MADE AGAINST TWO

INDIVIDUALS

то это

THERE WERE

TWO

INDIVIDU

THAT WE TRIED TO KILLi

NEITHER

OF

POVICH:

TWO HEADS

HEADS

OF

STATE

IN BOTH

CASES.®

BUT NEITHER OF WHOM DIED AS A RESULT.

COLBY:

NOT,

OF SORT THAT-S HARDLY

NOW,

A GRAND PROGRAM OF

CT

TO CHILE,

ASSASSINATION,

SUCH AS WE WERE

ALLEGED TO BE

DOING.

AND WITH RESPE

I-THINK IT

SHOWS

SUPPORTING. THE DEMOCRATIC

THAT OUR EFFORTS: THERE:

WITH ONE EXCEPTION,

WERE AIMED

PARTIES AND FORCES IN

POVICH:

A

CHILE

WHEN YOU. TAKE A LOOK

AT

THAT

RECORD; COUPLED WITH THE STATEMENT

BY THE CHAIRMAN

OF

THE

SENATE

INTElIGFNCE

COMMITTEE.

ON

MANY

FRANK CHURCH.

OCCASIONS,

YESTERDAY

tom d00

AND BY THE

NAT,

THE

HAVE

TALKED TO

SENATOR

CHURCH

AND HE HAS

GIVEN YOU NOTHING

BUT

ADMIRATION. FOR

YoU.

AND HE HAYE WORKED TOGETHER

COLBY:

HE'S

BUT HE SAYS

BEEN

UTMOST

THE

WAY

VERY KIND.

POVICH:

IN

THE

LAST

SEVERAL

MONTHS.

(THATS IF

THOSE MISSTEPS AND MISDEEDS.

IF THEY WERE INDEE

D

THAT, THERE

IS ENOUGH

THERE

FOR CRIMINAL

ACTION,

AND

HE HAS

PRO

SECUTOR.

IS

MAYBE

CALLED FOR A: SPECIAL

THAT.

TO

ENLARGING THE WATERGATE SPECIAL

MEr

PROSECUTOR•S

AUTHORITY,

TO LOOK

INTO

TH

1S:

CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.

THE

PROSPECT

OF

CRIMINAL

ACTIVITY, THE

POSSIBIL

ITY OF IT, AND HE WANTS IT

INVESTIGATED.:

TO ME.

THAT'S

MORE

THAN

MISSTEP AND MI

---

## Page 11

13-00000

of

000

CLIP000051

SR1

L1 DECEMBER 13, 1975 10:45 PM, W. E. COLBY REBUTTAL TO GRANADA TELEVISIONS THE RISE A.

ND FALL OF THE CIA

+ lu

HAS? THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HAS GONE BYOND THE FINDINGS OF THE ROCKEFELLE

R

COMMISSION

AND HAS FOUND MANY MORE EXAMPLES OF ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES BY THE CIA:

ND,

FOR

EXAMPLE.

IT

FOU

THAT THE CIA,"

IN AT

LEAST. TwO INSTANCES,

REALLY:

SET OUT TO KILL FOREI

GN LEADERS: FIDEL CASTRO AND PATRICE LUMUMBA: OF

ORT

WHICH,

BY

AND LARGE.

IS

THE CONGO: S0,

AREN-T YOU CITING A REP

MORE FAVORABLE TO YOU THAN THE

LATER FINDINGS?

DIRECTOR CO

THAT WAS WRITTEN TO COVER CIA'S

DOMESTIC ACTIVITIE

WHICH WAS

OF ITS INQUIRY. AND WHICH WA

THE SUBJECT OF SENSATIONAL CHARGES ABOUT A YEAR AGO, WHICH GAVE THE IMPRESSION

CIA WAS

F

ENGAGED IN MASSIVE ILLEGAL DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE ACTIYITY

THINK

THE

THAT

FACTS 0

THE ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

REPORT WERE

THAT IT WASN'T MASSIVE AND IT WASN'T

ILLEGAL.

THAT

SOME OF

THE THINGS

WERE WRONG,

SOME FEW OF THEM,

BUT

IT

CERTAINLY COULN'T BE

CHA

RACTERIZED IN THAT FASHION THERE,

DUKE:

WASN'T.

COLBY:

THE

SUBJECT OF

ASSASSINATION,

OF COU

WAS CONSIDERED A BIT

BUT THEN WAS PASSED TO THE

SENATE COMMITTEE

FOR ITS F

URTHER

INVESTIGATION.

AND: IN

THE SENATE'S FULL

PER CENT WITH THEM ON THIS

I THINK IF YOU'LL

INVESTIGATION

as one

AND WE

COOPERATED

100

THEY

FOUND AFTER

READ

THAT REPORT

SIX MONTHS OF VERY INTENSIVE

AL50,

YOU WILL

FIND

INVESTIGATION INTO WHAT CIA

THA

DID.

THAT

THEY FIND

FIVE CASES,

MAKE

WHICH THEY MENTIONED

TWO CASES IN WHICH

CIA.

•THEY SAY,

DID

SOME

STEPS TOWARD

THE KILLING

OF THESE INDIVIDUALS,

NEITHER OF WHOM DIED AS # RE

SULT OF

THOSE

STEPS.

THERE WERE SOME OTHER STEPS

--

THERE WERE

SOME OTHER PEOPLF

HO W

ERE KILLED

ELSEWHERE AS A PART

OF

ACTIVITY THAT

OOK,

OTHER

PEOPLE

IN

OTHER COUNTRIES

' RT

AND WAS NOT A RESULT OF CIA'S PLOTTING AGAINST

THEM.

AND THAT'S

THE SUM TOTH! OF

THE SIX-MONTH'S INVESTIGATION.

THIS DOES

NOT GIVE YOU

SPENT THE LAST 25

YEARS ASSASSINATING PEOPLE..

THE IMPRESSION OF AN

H HAS

DUKE: MR.

AGENCY WHIC

COLBY, YOU SAID ON CRS N

OT LONG AGO - AND I'D LIKE TO QUOTE Y

4

UR PRECISE WORDS

BUT THEY WERE

DONE EITHER

BECAUSE THEY WERE BELIEVED

OR WITHIN. THE

THE LAW:

THERE I5

A JUS

TIFICATION FOR WHAT

T:

I BELIEVE

AND

THAT

THEY

DID.

- DO

YOU BELIEVE.

THAT MURDER WAS JUSTIFIED? DIRECTOR COLB

ASSASSINATION IS NOT JUSTIFIED,

AND I'VE ISSUED DIRECTIVES AGAINST

TI ANDE

I'VE TURNED DOWN

SUGGESTIONS

FROM HIGH

OFFICIALS IN

THE PAST

THAT THAT BE

NO

QUESTION ABOUT THAT.

CERTAINLY

IT

SHOULD NOT BE

DONE,

DONE

OF

COURSE;

THER DAY THAT

WHICH

WAR.IS A FORM OF KILLING

PEOPLE.

EXCEPT IN TIME OF WAR

DUKE:

SENATOR CHURCH SAID

THE

THE CIA HAS HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE SITTING

AROUND, DREAMING UP

SUBVERSIVE AC

TIVITIES.

AND AGAIN. I'D LIKE

TO QUOTE WHAT HE

WOULD

EXPECT TO

FIND,

SAID:

-THESE ARE

THE TYPES

YOU ACTUALLY

THE DARE-DOER TYPES, THE ADVENTURESOME TYPES, THE PEOPLE WHO FI

ND

THEIR EXPRESSION

IN EXCITING ACTIVITIES.

ROUND,

THINKING OF

SCHEMES

AND WHAT ARE

THEY DOING? THEY'RE SITTING A

FO EW

INTERVENTIONS ALL OVER THE

WORLD.- IS

THAT AN ACCURAT

E DESCRIPTION. OF

THAT

CIA

PEOPLE? DIRECTOR

COLBY: I DON'T THINK

SO.

I

SUPPOSE YOU COULD SAY

I'VE HAD AN

ADVENTUROUS

LIFE

IN

VARIOUS

THINGS,

BUT I

DON-T SIT AROUND SCHEMING

FOR MORE ADVENTURES. I HAVE PLENTY OF ADVENTURES HERE IN WASHINGTON ANSWERING C

---

## Page 12

13-00000

000 CLIP000066

SR1

L1

INTERVIEW WITH WILLIAM E. COLBY, 19 JANUARY 1976

EE

TRACTED..

IT WASNOT UNTIL 1967 THAT WE REALLY BEGAN TO WORK SERIOUSLY ON THE PEOPLE 5M P

AR.

UNTIL

THEN,* NOBODY HAD'

A GOT INTO VIET NAM AND

DONE

ANYTHING ABOUT WINNING

THE WAR IN THE VILLAGES.

AMERIC

THEN DECIDED

THAT THERE ARE

SOME THINGS WE CANST DO

WELLI

I

HINK WE DIDN'T DO IT RIGHT.

BUT

I THINK WE COULD HAVE

DONE IT. Q THE WAR ENDED

IN DEF

EAT FOR

THE U.S.

IN YOUR OPINION,

WAS

THERE ANY SENSE IN WHICH THEYUES

SUCCEEDSO IN Y

IET NAM? A.

THE

1975

MILITARY EQUATION DIDN'T WORK.

BUT

HE WON THE PEOPLES WAR.

BY 1972 AN

THERE WEREN'T

ANY: TRUE

GUERRILLAS INVIET NAM

THE PEOPLE WERE ALLION

NMENT'S SIDE.

THE COMMUNIST VICTORY

IN VIET NAM WAS NO MORE

THE

GOVER

A RESULT OFCA GUERRILLA

R

THAN WAS

THE NAZI VICTORY

IN

FRANCE OR:

WA

NORWAY.

Q.

BOTH HERE AND ABROAD, MANY PEOPLE

CONSIDER

THE

CIA AN

INTERNATIONAL

MURDER

INCORPORATED

HOW MUCH KILLING HAVE. YOU SEEN

IN

YOUR

CHREER? R.

IT'S

MADDENING AND

FRUSTRATING

THAT

S0* MANY PEOPLE ASSOCIATE

THE

CI.

ASSASSINATIONSA

JUST LOOK AT THE ASSASSINATION REPORT B

"SENATOR

CHURCH'S COMMITTEE,

A SIX-MONTH STUDY,

AND: YOU•LL FIND THAT OVER A-25-YEAR P

ERIOD HE TRIED

TO GET

RID OF

A;

TWO PEOPLE;

CASTRO

AND THE BELGIAN CONGO^S PATRICE LUMUMB

AND WE DIDN'T ASSASSINATE EITHER

OF

THEM:

THE DART GUN WASN/T USED. AS FOR_THE PHOE

NIX OPERATION IN VIET

NAM,

A CONTROVERSIAL COUNTERTERRORIST OPERATION COLBY RAN.

THE F

IGURE OF

20/000 PEOPLE-KILLED

IS OFTEN USED.

WELL THATS MY FIGURE*

AND IM. THE ONE W

HO

PUT IT OUT.

BUT

•THAT WAS PART OF WAR.

WHAT WORRIES YOU ABOUTHE CURRENT CONTROVE

RSY OVER CIA OPERATIONS

AND FOREIGN. POLICY IN GENERAL? A.

I'M CONCERNED THAT

THE PRESE

NT PERIOD HAS

STRONG

SIMILARITIES TO

THE 1920/5

AND EARLY 1930*5

JUST AS EVENTS' IN

MA'

NCHURIA IN THE EARLY: 1930'5

SEEMED VERY FAR AWAY THEN,

THERE

ARE

SOME THAT SEEM

AY NOW.

THERE'S A

FAR

REVULSION AGAINST

INVOLVEMENT OVERSEAS BECAUSE

THE MISTAKES OF

R

LATEST WAR.

THIS KIND OF TURNING

AWAY

IS DANGEROUS,

0F:

OU

I THINK.

I'M NOT

SAYING: THINGS A

RE GOING TO FALL APART. I'M FUNDAMENTALLY O

---

## Page 13

13-00000

0 0'0

SR1

CLIP000067

L1

MEET THE PRESS, GEORGE BUSH FEBRUARY 22,1976

EE

TO BE VERY, VERY CAREFUL

IN THE FUTURE

BUT TO THE DEGREE SOME

SAT: SHOULD

WE HAVE

VERT AT

ALL.

OR

SAY.

YES,

THIS

COUNTRY MUST

RETAIN A

. AND

CO

STRONG

RT

COVE

CAPABILITY

NOT?

FLEXIBLE

LEWIS:. MR

BUSH,

A FEW MOMENTS AGO YOU

SHID

THAT

• HAVE-TO

RELY

FOR

NTROLLING ABUSES

NOT

ON LAW:

IN EFFECT,

BUT

ON BETTER

OVERSIGHT

THE EXECUTIVE

NOW.

PROPOSED

AN

OVERSIGHT

SEL

OR CONGRESS.

THE PRESIDENT HAS

SOMETHING

CALLED

BORR

OF

THREE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMEN.

WITHOUT BEING

UNKIND,""I

WANT

TO

SAY

THAT

THEY'RE

•HE

ELDERLY,

THAT

THEY"RE PART-TIME

AND I

JUST WONDER

WHETHER

UCH CIVILIANS.

CAN KEEP ABREAST OF ALL

YOu

SERIOUSLY

THIN"

THAT.

19°

THE THINGS

THAT

GO

WRONG

OR

TOLD

US

A LITTLE

EARLIER.

DID GO WRONG?

BUSH:

WELL.

MAY.

LET

ME

GO

BACK AND

jul

N'T

SHY

I HOPE I DIDN'T. COME DOWN SAYING

I DON'T

THINK

YOU NEED

ANY

• LAW..

HOPE

EXECUTIVE ORDER AND THEN THE REQUESTS FOR LEGISLATION

THAT HAVE GONE FORWARD

ERE LEE BUT CERN THE YEL NEEDA SASSDNETAEN

I HOPE

THAT WILL

BE

PASSED

E

ACCEPT,

PAW IN

THIS DAY

OF DISCRIMINATION.

EXECUTIVE

BRANCH.

THIS AGE

SOME

DISCRIMINATION,

MACHINERY

CAUSE

A

F

ELLOW

• IKE

MURPHY

IS A

VERY: ABLE

PERSON,

DON'T

• YOU

INTENDED THAT.

WOULD

HAT THIS MACHINERY. WHERE THE

AND

I

THINK

INSPECTORS GENERAL AND

THE

BUT

GENERAL

COUNSEL

AND

SAY

INDIVIDUA

LS ARE ENCOURAGED,.

WITHOUT GOING TO

THE DIRECTOR,

SAY

SOMEONE 'IN

THE

CIA:

INSPECTOR

GENERAL - TO

GO DIRECT TO THE

OVERSIGHT:

BOARD,

IS

GOOD KIND

OF

MACHINERY

•TO

HAVE

A

VAILABLE.

AND YOU COUPLE THAT WITH MORE OVERSIGHT

FROM

THE CONGRESS, AND

WE'RE

MOVING

TOWARDS RESPONSIBLITY ON

THE PART. OF PEOPLE

LIKE OURSELVES,

THE

CIA.

LEWIS:

MR.

ON LAW

YOU MENTIONED THE ONE

BUSH.

EXAMPLE WHERE

THE

PRESIDENT

HAS PROPOSED

LAW

LIMI

COVERT ACTIONS;

THAT'S ON ASSASSINATIONS.

I WONDER

WHETHER

YOU. WOULD FAVOR

ANY OTHER

IMIT.

FOR EXAMPLE;

ON SEPTEMBER 15,

1970,

PRESIDENT

NIXON

INSTRUCTED ONE

OF

YOUR

PREDE

CESSORS TO

ENCOURAGE

A MILITARY

COUp

AGRINST

THE

CHILE.

IF SOMEONE SAID

THAT TO YOU NOW.

DO

YOU

FEEL.

ORDERED

DEMOCRATIC

SYSTEM

OF ANOTHER

COUNTRY,

YOU TO DO THAT.

WOULD YOU

DO IT? HOW

HBOUT

THAT?. BUSH:

I WOULDN'T DO

IT.

I'LL

OWN

ORDER,

TELL YOU WHY I WOULDN'T SAY I-T..I

BECAUSE UNDER

• THE PRESIDENT*S

THIS DOUBLE-TRACKING,

THAT THA

BECAME

REFERRED

TO,

IS

ELIMINATED BY A MUCH MORE FORMALIZED.

ACTION OF

THE OLD 40 COM

MITTEE:

SPECIAL

COMMITTEE NOW:

NOBODY CAN

SAY: 0H.

I WASN'T

THERE.

I

.THE

OPERATIONS

OR

GOT

APHONE

CALL.

EVERYBODY-SITS AROUND

AND MAKE.

A DECISION OF THIS

OF THIS NATURE

I WOULD: HOPE

AN

•TO INTEGRITY,

AN

YOU CAN'T REALLY DEFINE

IN A CODE OF LAW. EVERYTHING

GOING

TO GUARANTY

PERF

ION.

E

AND

I RESPECT.

THE ATTEMPT

THAT'S BEEN

MADE TO TRY-

TO ELIMINATE ABUSE.

YE

YOU SAY,

ARE

YOU

GUARANTEEING

THERE WILL

BE NO ABUSE? I COULDN'T

SAY SIT

AND

IN THIS

OR

ANY

OTHER

FIELD

BY

El

LAN.

NOYES:

MR

BUSH,

WHAT

DO YOU

THINK

THE

CHANCES ARE

THAT

GRESS WILL

ENACT SOME KIND OF

LEGISLATION

THAT SUBJECTS

ITSELF

TO

CRIMINAL

SANCTIO

THE CASE

OF

DIVULGING

OFFICIAL

NS

SECRETS? BUSH:

THINK

THERE

LIN

NONE.

ARE

TWO

CHANCES:

NOYES:

IN

THAT.

CASE;

HOW EFFECTIVE

DO YOU THINK

THESE®

BUSH:

I.M. NOT

EY

SHOULD,

INCIDENTALLY.

I'M

SURE

SURE

NOT

THEY

SHOULD.

UNDER

THE

SPEECH-AND-DEBATE

TH

CALUSE

BUT

THOSE ARE

THE

TWO

CHANCES

SEE

NOYES:

WELLi

IN:

THE

CASE

THAT

WE

ARE

AGAINST

NOW,

THE

SANCTIONS WILL BE

LIMITED

TO

R

VERY FEW

PEOPLE

IN

THE

EXECUTIVE BRANCH

---

## Page 14

13-00000

:: 14.

CLIP000069

SR1

L1

LOS ANGELES TIMES, 22 FEBRUARY 1976, W.E. COLBY, BY GAYLORD SHAW

EE

SR3

1.3

IS THE CIA,. AS

ING

THE

CAUSE OF

FREEDOM EVERYWHERE? OR

REEDOM POERERHE RENTER IS" WAS-CONTERITES CONTENDEDA REEKLESS

A WELL-CONTROLLED AGENCY DEDICATED. TO ADVANC

ROGUE

TRAMPLING INTO FORBIDDEN FIELDS,

MAKING AMERICA THE BOGEYMAN OF THE

WORLD? WHERE DOES

THE

TRUTH LIE? WILLIAM

E. COLBY STARED

INTO THE WINTER MORNING OUTSIDESHIS LIVING ROO

I HAD SORT DE

LIKE A SPY

IN

FROM

HAD

SORT

OF HOPED, -

HE SAID;

THE

COLD, TALKED WISTFULLY OF WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN

THEY HADN'T.

TRAL INTELLIGENCE

ONE.

_THAT

THESE SKELETONS

MIGHT REMAIN IN THE FAMILY CLOSET

BY ONE,

SLOWLY,

PAINFULLY

- THE

SKELETONS WERE DRAGGED FROM THE

AGENCY'S CLOSET DURING COLBYSS

N PLOTS

BURGLARIES.

THREE YEARS AS DIRECTOR.

CEN

ASSASSINATIO

MAIL: OPENINGS..

DOMESTIC SURVEILLANCE.

SECRET ARMIES.

UNDERCOVER

C

ASH FOR FOREIGN POLITICANS:

ENDED

COVERT ATTEMPTS TO OVERTHROW OTHER GOVERNMENTS.

THE

REVELATIONS

COLBY'S QUARTER-CENTURY CAREER WITH THE

CIA.

LAST MONTH

HE HAD LITTLE

TO

DO WITH

: MOST OF

THE

MISDEEDS:

BUT

HE DISPLAYS NO VISIDLE BITTERNESS ABOUT HIS OUSTER

TURNING

FROM THE WINDOW

TO LEAN BACK ON

GOLD-COLORED SOFA. COLBYARGUED

IN QUIET

ES

THAT

THE CIAS SINS WERE PARADED

TON

BEFORE AN AMERICAN PUBLIC- ILL-PREPARED FOR THE DISC

LOSURES BECAUSE

IT

HAD NO FRAME OF

REFERENCE FOR INTELLIGENCE,

EXCEPT SPY NOVELS -

• RETIRED

TO A MODEST. ANDUNGUARDED

SUBURBAN HOME,: HE

IS WRITING A BOOK--NOT A SHY NOVE

L,

BUT A

SERIOUS BOOK HE HOPES

WILL

PLACE THE AGENCY'S OPERATIONS IN HISTORICAL FERSPE

CTIVE TOO MUCH

OF THE DEBATE RAGING

AROUND THE AGENCY,

SAID,

CENTERED *ON

-DIDDL

Y LITTLE

THINGS--SUCH AS

-MINUSCULE

NUMBER-

OF BURGLARE SO COMMITS CENTEE UNITEDDY

ATES BY

CIA OPERATIVES.

INSTEAD

THE

DEBATE SHOULD TA

URN THE WHOLE

CONTINENT HOSTILE TO THE UNITED STATESTHERE WAS

A SERIOUS ASSESSMENT THA

THIS WAS

A POSSIBILITY

-50 WE PUT

TOGETHER

A

PROGRAM,

THROUGH

THE

OA5,

WHICH WAS

A POLITICAL. PROGRA

ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES,

AN ECONOMIC

PROGRAM

THROUGH

THE AL

INTELLIGENCE

IN TERRORISM AND G

VERRILLA ACTIVITY

-AT

THE

END

OF

THE

PERIOD,

IN 1975,

LATIN AMERICAN IS: NO GARDEN.

BU

IT HASN'T BEEN TURNED TOTALLY HOSTILE

TO THE UNITED STATES UNDER CUBAN LEADERSHIP.

_YOU CAN'T SAY

IT WAS

THE CIA

ALONE,

BUT THE CIA, I THINK,

MADE A CONTRIBUTION

IN ANUM

BER OF COUNTRIES.

LL

HAVE

IT'S

BEEN

WORTHWHILE

AMILD

SET OF REFORMS

HOW?

-SOMEHOW, - HE OBSERVED,

-THE CONTRADICTION WI

TO BE

WORKED OUTBUT

PREISDENT FORD OFFERED HIS

ANSWER LAST WEEK,

PROPOSIN

LEGISLATIVE

SUCH

AS R

NEW OVERSIGHT

COMMITTEE WITHIN

THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.

BAN: ON PEACETIME ASSASSINATION OF FOREIGN LEADERS

AND ON DOMESTIC

SNOOPI

NG.:

AND

TOUGHER

LANS

AGAINST

LEAKING OFFICIAL

SECRETS

THE

SENATE

INTELLIGENCE

COMMITT

EE,

CHAIRED BY SEN.

FRANK

ALLING FOR MUCH

TIGHTER

CONTROLS

CHURCH, W

WILL

MAKE ITS

RECOMMENDATIONS

NEXT MONTH,

PROBABLY

BY

THE

THE

•INTELLIGENCE

ESTABLISHMENT.

TIGHTENED

CONTROLS

WERE URGED

HOUSE INTELLIGENCE

COMMITTEE

HEADED

BY

REP

0TIS G.

PIKE,

D.

N. Y.

EFORE IT

DIED

THIS

MONTH IN

BLAZE

OF

CONTROVERSY.

OYER

WHO LEAKED

ITS YET-TO-BE-FORMA

LLY RELEASED FINAL

REPORT.

DEBATE

ON INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

WILk

MONTHS,

PERHAPS

YEARS

AS

IT

DOES;

STUDY

THE STILL-UNFOLDING

SAGA

THE

CIA OFFERS

TO HOW

THE

AGENCY

CLUE

BECAME

SUCH AN ENIGMA.

HARRY S.

TRUMAN WAS

UNHAPPY AND IN

A HURRY.

HIS 90-YERR-OLD

MOTHER WAS

LINGERING

INGTON

NATIONAL

AIRPORT.

WAITING

NEAR DEATH IN MISSOURI,

BUT HE. WAS

STUCK AT WASH

FOR AIDES

TO

BRING

HIM

JUST PASSED LEGISLA

TION

HE

WANTED

TO

SIGN BEFORE TAKE-OFF.

MINUTES TICKED BY THAT SULTRY, BDEGREE JULY AF

TERNOON.

FINALLY

ZMAN.

U.S. ARMS AND A CIA-SUPPLIED AIR FORCE BROUGHT COL. CARLOS CASTILLO ARMAS TO POW

ER.

IN

DONESIA--IN 1958,

ANOTHER CIA-SPONSORED AIR FORCE BASED

IN THE PHILIPFINES SUPPORTED R

EBELS

IN

THE

CELEBES

WHO WERE

TRYING

OVERTHROW PRESIDENT SUKARNO

CONGO-- IN. 1960,

HE

CIA

PLOTTED

TO ASSASSINATE

PRESIDENT

PATRICE

LUMUMBA,

EVEN

SENDING POISONS

T

THE C

ONGO.

A FEW MONTHS LATEN

TO

LUMUMBA

WAS

KILLED BY CONGOLESE RIVALS,

AND THE

SENATE INTEL

LIGENCE

TH.

BUT

COMMITTEE

CONCLUDED

THERE WAS

NO

EVIDENCE

THAT

THE CIA WAS

INVOLVED

IN HIS DEA

THE CIA

REMAINED

ACTIVE

IN

THE

PRESS A REVOLT AGAINST

THE

GOVERNMENT

REGION,

AND

IN 1964,

PROVIDED PLANES TU HELP

SU

AND.

1961,

THE

CIA

OF THE CONGO : NOW KNOWN AS

ZAIRE.

DOMINICAN

RE

PUBLIC--DURING 1960

SUPPORTED

DISSIDENTS WHO ON MAY

31,

1961,

INATED DICTATOR

ASSASS

RAFAEL:

TRUJILLO.

SOME

U.

AGENTS KNEW OF THE MURDER

PLANS,

AND AMERIC

AN

OFFICIALS FURNISHED THE DISSIDENTS WITH THREE PISTOLS;

ALTHOUGH

IT IS

UNKNOWN WHETH

THEY

WERE USED

IN THE

ASSASSINATION.

CUBA--FROM

1960

THROUGH

1965, CIA WAS

INVOLED

SEVERAL

PLOTS: TO ASSASSINATE

PREMIER FIDEL CASTRO,

AT ONE

POINT

ENLISTING

THE RID O

MAFIA

LEADERS.

AND: IN 19512 A BRIGADE

OF CUBAN EXILES TRAINED

AND

AN

SUPPORTED

BY

THE

C

LANDED

AT

THE

BAY OF.

PIGS" IN

ILL-FOUNDED

ATTEMPT TO

AND

OVERTHROW CASTRO.

MOST

OF

IN

TH

INVADERS WERE

CAPTURED OR

KILLED,

FOUR

U.S.

PILOTS FLYING FOR

THE

CIA DIED

TH

EPISODE:: THE AGENCY'S BEST-KNOWN DISASTER.

BRAZIL--IN 1962.

THE CIA SPENT A REPORTED

$20

MILLION

TO SUPPORT HUNDREDS

OF GUBERNATORIAL,

IDATES

IN

AN ATTEMPT TO DENY

LEFTIST PRESIDENT

CONGRESSIONAL,

STATE AND

• LOCAL

JOAO

GOULART CONTROL OF THE

CAND

BRAZILIAN

C

---

## Page 15

13-00000

ONGRESS.

VIETNAM--IN 1963,

THE CIA HAD

SECRET CONTACTS WITH A GROUP OF GENERALS WHO ST

AGED

A

COUP

IN WHICH PRESIDENT NGO

DINH

DIEM WAS KILLED

LATER»:

AS U.S.

INVOLVEMENT.. IN

VIETNAM

DEEPENED,

SO DID THE

CIA'S

ROLE.

AMONG THE

ACTIVITIES WAS THE

PHOENIX

PROGRAM

DESIGNED TO NEUTRALIZE THE VIET CONG.

COLBY, WHO HEADED IT, LATER TOLD CONGRESS TH

---

## Page 16

13-00000

CLIP000093

SR1

L1 DAVID BRUDNOY, INTERVIEW WITH GEORGE BUSH, JULY 19,1976

NOER FOR ABUSES THAT

CANNOT BE SUBSTANTIATED, BUT MUCH MORE CRITICAL

HL

THAN

THAT

IN MY VIEW CRIMIN

THIS

I THINK IT

15

DISGRACEFOL,

TENDENCY

TO

PUBLISH NANES

OF

LOYAL AMERICANS

SERVING HERUHD

HNU

1

THINK

IT'S THE

WORST WORD

TO

USE ON IT

BUT

IT IS

I FEEL

AND

THE WRY

THAT

IT..

I WISH WE HAD STRONGER LAWS

N°T.

THOSE

TO PROSECUTE THEM,

BUT WE

THE CONGRESS

DO

ISN'T IN

THE MOOD

NOY: I

TO DO THAT AND I

DO TOO.

THINK THE WORST

WORD

IS ONE HE CAN'T USE

THINK

OVER

IT'S

DISGRACEFUL.

BRUD

USE

I'M SURE

OU HAVE FRIENDS HERE

THE RIR,

BUT

BOTH ON THIS END OF

THE MICROPHONE

OUT

W YOU HAVE TO GO QUICKLY,

AND

LISTENING

SO I WANT TO ASK:YOU,

IF I MIGHT JUST ONE OR TWO MORE

THORE BRIEF

KNO

QUE

STIONS.

YOU HAVE BEEN

KIND ENOUGH TO STAY WITH US THIS LONG.

I DON'T WANT TO ASK ANYTH

ING THAT WOULD PROVOKE FROM YOU

-NO

COMMENT- BECAUSE IT'S A SECURITY

QUESTION AND

I'M NOT GOING TO GET

INTO ANY

SPECIFICS:

BUT WE HAVE HEARD

MANY

PARANOID

50

STORIES

BOUT CIA INVOLVEMENT

IN THE ASSASSINATIONS

THE LAST FEW

YEARS.

IN VARIOUS OF

OUR LEADERS

OVER

WHEN

YOU

CAME

INTO

THE

OFFICE

PARTLY AS A

CLEANING UP

ME IN WITH AN UNSULLIED REPUTATION WHICH UNFORTUNATELY,

YOUR

OPERATION BECRUSE YOU CA

PREDECESSOR,

THROUGH

RULT OF

NO F

HIS OWN.

DID NOT HAVE.

DID YOU FIND

ANY HINT

THAT

THE

U.s

GOVERNMENT

THROUGH

THE CIA HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN

ANY FORM OF ASSASSINATION

ANYWHERE

OTHER THAN

OTHER

EN

EMY

AGENTS,

WHICH I KNOW GOES ON IN ALL ESPIONAGE

OF

AGENCIES

BUSH:

HELL:

THE

ONLY

THING

I'VE FOUND IS WHAT'S

BEEN PUBLISHED IN THE

THIS NATURE,

SENATE

COMMITTEE

REFORT

HAS NOT

BEEN AN

ASSASSINATION OF

CERTAINLY THAT I KNOW OF

AND

THERE

THERE HAVE BEER

SOME P

LOTTING THAT

HAS COME OUT AND VERY,

VERY LIMITED AND I

HOULD

SIMPLY

SAY

THAT

THE

SASHE

TO

THE QUESTION IS

NO.

BUT

I WOULD REFER YOUR LISTENERS

TO THE

SENATE COMMODES KEPO

RT.

AND THERE

SOME ASSASSINATION

IS DISCUSSED

THERE

AND

THEY WILL

SEE

THEY READ

HND READ

IF

IT

IT OPENLY. AND

HONESTLY THAT ALL

THESE ALLEGATIONS ABOUT

THE CIA INVOLVED

IN T

HE ASSASSINATION OF

FOREIGN LEAERS IS SIMPLY NOT TRUE.

THERE WAS SOME ISOLATED INCIDEN

TS OF PLOTTING BUT TO MY

KNOWLEDGE THERE WAS NOT ANY

ASSASSINATION

THAT'

S BEEN LAYED

R

T THE DOORSTEP OF

THE CIA.

ALTHOUGH WE HAVE

BEEN CHARGED

WITH

IT,

S0 I THINK HE ARE

IN

BETTER SHAPE ON THAT THAN PUBLIC OPINION WOULD HAVE PEOPLE

BELIEVE.

BRUDNOY:

THINK

50

TO0,

I WAS WONDERING

IF THERE HAD BEEN ANY CONFIRMATION

IN

CIR

INFORNATION OF

TORY

PUT

FORWARD BY FRANK STURGIS THAT JACK RUBY HAD MET

THE

WITH FIDEL

CASTRO AND

TALKED

ABOUT

KILLING KENNEDY.

THIS

WOULD NOT HAVE

IMPLIED A CIA

ACTIVITY,

BUT IN

CIA INVESTIG

ATIONS.

EUSH: NO,

THERE IS NO CONFIRMATION OR I HAVEN'T FRANKLY. LOOKED INTO

THAT 50

HAYE

NO CONFIRMATION OF IT.

I DO NOTE THAT IT WAS

CARRIED

AND

THAT

STURGIS WAS CIA AGENT

ND THIS SIMPLY IS NOT TRUE AND THE STORY IS REPERTED

BRUDNOY:

REPEATED AND REPEATED

ONE

PERSONAL.

AND

'IT"

§ NOT TRUE

IS IT

HAT

TWO MORE QUESTIONS:

ONE DIPLOMATIC AND

TRUE

THERE IS

SOME FAILSAFE DEVICE

T HAD

ANY I DON'T

DONE FREE CENE EVER THE CHE MAO ENEMIERCE.

STOP A CRAZED

PRESIDENT? WE HAVEN

BUT A CRAZED PRESIDENT

N ORDERING THE CIA TO DO

SOMET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

INTELLIGENCE

THE NCE MOOR THE FELD

AND DEFEAT THE ENEMY MORE TAR BEYOND THAT MOOR.

MOST E

---

