# 104-10186-10334

## Page 1

104-10186-10334

ORTI

COUNTRY Cuba

SUJECT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• REPORT NO.

Direccion General de Inteligencia DATE DISTR

(DGI) Porsonnel Abroad

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI-316/02286-65

1 June 1965-

1

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO

PLACE &

Washington, -D.

C.

DATE ACQ-(March" 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

PATS 19 UNEVALUATEO INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service

until April 1964.

1.

2.

The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon

sibility for physical or other security of the Cuban Embassy or

Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

The DGI would not use a regular foreign-service officer in the

field because

therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks.

he has not been clared and briefed and is not,

foreign-service officer is briefed, It may be assumed that he

and that he is thereafter considered a member

of the DGI (at least by the DGI) .

On returning to Havana per-

manently, such

a foreign-service

officer briefed for a field

assignment normally would be sent

to DGI licadquarters rather

than to the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

S-E-C-RE-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

last stores lores

STATE

DIA

I ARHY

REPCISCLAYT

CINCSO 5

I NAVY

_ISYS

PAIR

_ INSA

1 oca

JFBI

2

Mate: Fanta distribution indicalad by "$")

INFORMARIONIRROR WINFORMATIoNARERORT.

PHC CH

CULA

TITE7

IX-2482

MIC RE

1 WE

'1

HIEN

NP (ANMUG-1)

IL WASH.

CSCI-316/02286-

RID: AV

WHC NATEL

TORALSNEC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

1000 POMATING RELEASE

HIAISON

Lb; eh

R&-A

5

3

2

---

