# 104-10073-10358

## Page 1

110410073-10358

AuG

HIH.

25312

SECRET 31IAIOZ AUG 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13488

TO: PRIORITY DÉD/HEADQUARTERS.

03

IO: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSB (FRENCH)] FROM HENNESSEY]

WNINTEL

SUBJ: ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF :

DCD/MIAMI 13477, 24 AUGUST 1976, SAME SUBJECT

NOPTHOS

MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, AND

MIAMI, FLORIDA, HAS ADVISED US THAT SUBSEQUENT TO REFERENT FRANK

STURGIS TOLD HIM THAT THE ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL CONSISTS

OF A COLLECTION OF OFFICIAL ALBANIAN GOVERNMENT MEMORANDA THAT

HAD BEEN SENT IN CODE AND WERE DECODED.

THESE MEMOS HAD BEEN

SENT OUT IO BE BURNED, BUT WERE INTERCEPTED APPARENTLY BY. MARITA

LORENZ OR A FRIEND®

STURGIS TOLLI

THAT THE MATERIAL HAD

BEEN SENI

IN TWO LOTS TO MIAMI®

HE CLAIMED THAT (FNU) FONZI, AN

ATTORNEY IN MIAMI AND AN ASSOCIATE OF

SENATOR RICHARD SCHWEIKER

OF PENNSYLVANIA, AND A NEWSMAN IN NEW YORK NAMED PRESCOT OR WESCOT

BOTH KNOW OF THIS MATERIAL®

STURG IS INDICATED TO

THAT HE

HAD DISIRIBUTED COPIES OF

VARIOUS PAGES OF THE ALBANIAN MATERIAL

TO THESE PEOPLE TO PROVE THAT HE INDEED HAS THE MATERIAL HE CLAIMS

STURGIS MENTIONED TOL

THAT HE HAD NOT YET RECEIVED A

RESPONSE FROM SENATOR ROBERT BAKER OF TENNESSEE CONCERNING STURGIS®

OFFER TO TURN OVER THE ALBANIAN MATERIAL®

ST URGIS SAID THAT A

MEMBER OF SENATOR BAKER'S STAFF (UNNAMED) IS VERY INTERESTED IN

THE MATERIAL, BUT COULD DO NOTHING UNTIL BAKER RETURNS TO

WASHINGTON, D. Co

INTERVIE

ADVISED THAT STURGIS HAD. GRANTED A ''LENGTHY"*

W WIN COLUMNIST JACK ANDER SON ON THE EVENING. OF 26

AUGUST 1976°

ANDERSON APPARENTLY IS DOING A STORY ON CASINO

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 13488 SECRET

GAMBLING IN HAVANA, CUBA, DURING THE PRE-CASTRO PERIODOL THE

INTERVIEW WITH STURGIS CENTERED ON THIS SUBJECT.

NOT KNOW. WHETHER THE ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL WAS DISCUSSED

IN THE INTERUIEW.

STURG IS ALSO ON 26 AUGUST.

ALSO ADVISED US THAT AN LNERGO OFFICER

MET WITH

THIS MEETING. E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

DOES NOT KNOW THE REASON FOR

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Rept

283/3

---

