# 104-10227-10176

## Page 1

104-10227-10176

M. Thorpes

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTINO

EXT

DATE:

ở Oửt. 1961

1517

TO

• HAVE

FROM:

DIRECTOR

7 0C7 61

17E

CONF

BELL

INFO:

COP, ADDP/A, WH 5, S/C 2

- HAVE

INFO

tli:

THH,

DAV*

CITE DIR

SIG CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINe

OUT5547/ -

16581

RITS:

QIN

HAVE 8309

(4084))*

2. PIS CLARITY FOLLOWISO POINTS REP A.

FIRE PARAS 1-2 BASED Of PASSOVOr

DIBCUBSIONS WITH AMBUD-1? ADVISS AMOUNT UICBLIRATED FUNDA PLAN UEE YOR OCT

PROP CONMISSICN AND WEY BALANCE CANNOT BE

UBED FOR PARA & ALLIARD NEED, EXPLAIN

REASON FOR DRPOSITINO DEPENDERTS PANENTS IN TRUST ACCOUNT INFERAD OF MAXITO

PAXENT DIRECT TO DEPRIDENTS. ADVISE RESUINS CHECK AGAINET HAVE RECORDS GE

HAMBS THISSE TEN HOT-ERTURNKEE AND THRIR DEPENDENTS.

2. WILL ADVISE IQB DEFINITE DECISION AFTER RECEIVING YOUR ARSUERB ABOVE.

NBANVILTTE QUIDANCE FURNISIRD REF B CE PREVIOUS REQUEST ADDITIQNAL FUNDE FOR

DEPXIDINTS PAYS CONSIDED GENTRALI APPLICABLI TIDE NIA RAYIET.

3. YOUR ASSIBIPTION PARA 3 CORRECT.

KIND

OF" MESSAOR

COOPDINATINO OPUICER

SBCRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHANTICATINO OFFICIA

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

00258:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

DATE y

10

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO I

17708

PAOS THO

10

CITE DIR

INFO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CUT55471

16581

WE Cormento

Advised "por discussions Passoroy" portion of mobligated funde

($33,800) woulê be used: to defray YRD Prop Connulenton for Oct pending final

docioion continuance that commission, and that balanco of such fünds not

presently counittod.

Para 2 9a1d AVETKI-I survoy roveals 10 recruits, now

mong nissing coptured, have never dravn "depondence paymentsy that effective

Bept "dependency paymante pald boball men and deposited trust account against

futuro claimo" and that ANTICI-l requested that fundo "for bak paymente theme

12311

be made available for deposit trust account in amount of 418,375.00,

nich amount could not be squased from obligated funds son on hand.

.. 1 Advised no additional KnARK Lunde would bo furnisbed for paymenta

to InIgo number of returneed claimed. by ANTIKI-l and AltID-l to bave received

paymento and commantod in detail on ressons voy requeat appaared

to bo no more than attampt by AMEL/AuTROl to obtain additional lundo for

political patronage purposes.

Paul SObert

c/wa/4/7 1anc

COOROINARIMO OPPICE

NUTATATTE

ARLEASING OPTICER

BE CRBT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. 7

AC/1a/4

Copy stai

---

