# 104-10073-10347

## Page 1

1104-10073-10347

Tellez (FAO) "Seminario

de Extensión Apricola"

4. -

Teresa PROENZA told

that Mirta AGUIRRE, Cuban intellectual,

became disgusted with tue Conselo Nacional de Cultura and ieft

to teach at the Universidad de Fabana.

PHOENZA anid this during

a conversation with

re advisability of working in Cuba.

PROENZA and

both agreed that they wold not want to work in

Cuba..

PROENZA gave

the idea that

she might be soire to Paris

belleves that Coty SOLORZANO might have bought this word

back to PRUErZA from llabana.

5.

On I1 J,,ne 53. HoraciolLORRS Sancnez

arranged to send a Mexican Art exhibit to Cuba.

that he lad

said that

PROENZA had previously reported this.

described FLORES

as "un demonio" and has always referred to him as a dangerous

anti-U.s. type.

6.

PROENZA told

that RamonXsTORAS told CotY/SOLORZAl:D, that

was doing a terrific job etc.

SINOBAS has been extremely

_since his return fro" Habana.

7°

said he has noted an obvious coldness on the part of lianuel

AVEGA Perez,

Chief Cuban G-2 in Mexico.

He said he hardly says

hello.

believes it possibl that "Conchita". FERNAHDEZ

said

something to him in Habana re his remark several months

ago re

3 plane side with AlLEO 3's pilot.

said he told

FERNAEZ about this remark when he was in Habana the last time.

_plans to appranch VEGA and if he reacts coldly he will ask

him what is bothering him.

Nacho Lopez, compañero

giere ir a Cuba (peliculas;

dice Proenza que escriba

a Portuondo, activar asunto

Aja (Bolivia)

Mirta Aguirre, disgustada

Con CONSEJO MACIONAL DE CUL

TURA, pasó a la Universidad

FLORES SANCHEZ

le dijo Sinobas a Coty

Proenza dice que no se

quedaría a trabajar en Cuba,

probablemente a Paris.

CKS

FILE:

RETURN TO CIA

- Background Use Only

Do. Not Reproduce

10135

IM-17

---

## Page 2

14-00000

[epeimA.

201-329609

FORMA -21684

5 July 1963

Encl. (Contact Report

Date of Mtg. 27 May 63

said that on 27 May 1963, Ramon SINOBAS Casado, Cuban

Charge, gave hin a list of names received from Habana re applications

for employment in Cuba. SINOBAS told

to investigate the names

and to bear in mind that their political ideology is of utmost

importance

was amazed that SINOBAS gave hin this task as it

appears to fall into Manuel VEGA's bailwick, 1.e. G-2

plans

to take advantage of this task to find out about their friends, etc.

The names are as follows:

• Mauro FERNANDEZ Ugalde, Alfredo NEVER

Avila, Eduardo OLIVERA, Victor M. RUIZ, Mexicans and Eduardo PINTOS Mimo,

Spaniard.

NOTE: FERNANDEZ was previously reported by

to be a close

friend of Ma. Teresa PROENZA P., who has helped him re education.

See previous memo re same. The report from Habana provides biog

data which

will provide on night of 31 May 1963.

SECR

E T

10130

241241531

IM-8

---

