# 104-10079-10026

## Page 1

104-10079-10026

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

RI/AN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

CI/RA

2C

29

2.

03

RID/MIS

7.

_ RID/PS

10

13.

'Red/ Fi

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

X

SECRET

'AL

E. JALY

O CONC

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

HAL

X

SECREY

EXTENSION

NO.

WFA

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

XAAZ- 22602

DATE

15

Nap 64

COMMENTS (Numbor each çomment to show from

wnom

to whom.

Draw a line across column

offer each comment.)

MICROFILMED

AUE 2 0 1965

TAME AS

243431

ste

03

DOE: MICRO, SER:

R-

how about thing

to O's 201? Also, pls.

ad to subject as indica

i abstrac

3:5/ RID/MIS

Pls add to. Jabj. line

info written on abstract

in pencil!

ANLIZABE

ABSTRACT

INDEX

ANI

ABSTRACT

INDEX

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

201-742862

UNCLASSIFIED

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1/557

3/00

---

## Page 2

14-00000

:. 4-4504

1C d

XAAZ- 22602

MEMORANDUM FOR:

MI. J. Lce Rackia

General Cossaal

Prosidont's Commlasion os tae

Assasslzation of Prosidont Keazedy

MICROFILMED

AUG 2 0 1965

SUBJECT:

° Information Coscerzing Jack RUBY 10C

DOC MIRA SER

(aka Jack RUDENSTEIN) and BLa

Associates us Transmitted +.

Warian Cainmissica

1. Referenes la made to your memorandam oi 19 May 1964,

requestlng that thia Agency lurnlal any information in ita files

relative to Jack RUBY, his actirities and his associates.

Ibla mersorandux will conflim our carllar statament to

the Commiasion to the effoct that an examination of Cantial Intelll

gence Agency fles has produced no information on Jack RUB or

ais activitias. (Ths Gentral Jatclligence Agency lsa 3o Indication

El RUBY and Lee HarveT OSWALD ever know caca 33ne7, 12r2

associated, or might have been connacted in any manaer.

(201-289278)

3. The recorda of this Agency were reviewed for information

about thn relatives, frionds and associates oi RUBY named in your

suremary of his background. Our records do not rolloct any intorma-

ton pertaining to these persons.

JAME

373341

Thomas H. Karamessines

Acting Deputy Dizoctor for Plane

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

2 - DDP

2 - C/CI/R&A

SECRET

BS ROPY

201:742862

---

