# 104-10217-10082

## Page 1

104-10217-10082 •

•=

CONFIDENTIAL®

indone.

28 May

(201-275949)

20P

Memo for the Record

TO 8 MI. Willlan Sturbitts

FROM A

33 09.0

SUBJECTS ReInOl GONZALEZ Vonzales «/Comments on Interview

In May 1979 in Miami.

In

This Subject was interviewed on the occasiono. both our

visits to Miaml and we spent at least some 6 hours with him and

still haven't finished. He told us on the occasion of the last

visit that he still wants to tell us about sone things going

son in the Cuban exile comministy in Miami, that some Cubans are

• buying arms and planning actions against CASTRO, etC. He wante to

tell us, he said, thall we'll know and won'? be

surprised but he

denies

all part for himself in any such illegal actions. He does

not believe

it possible,.

given internal and external conditions

now prevailing, to overthrow CASTRO anytire soon but says if it

were possible, he would be the first to start preparations for

that purpose.

When we neit go to Miani we will listen to what

additional he has to say.

the guy toda

2. Subject was for the wiiter the most interesting and perhaps

the most productive of the peonle we were assigned to intervien

This guy is cut from a different mold from the ocher l. He is

tough, intelligent, cunning, shrewd, lacking in formal education,

but a real toughin-fighter who knows what he wants and knows how

to go about it. He is, too, I think, a real opportunist, and this

may explain in part his reason for putting on the 6 Nov 61 TV.

program. I had the felling repeatedly that he was not really

coming clean on many of our questions, but the only two questions

GOC, Files

he knew

or thought they would be thrown at him and he had his

Reinol knew answers prepared, dure about the TV program and BARzOSO latero

3. This lin started out as the Secretary-general of the Union

APR 2 9 1980

"PROFILMED

"DOE, MICRO. SER.

of Christain Workers (UTC), at one point belonged to the ARD( an

association of young democratic people) the MRP for a while,ete

In 1959 he was named foreign relations secretary of the Confederatior

of Cuban Workers (CIC), however, at the election of officers in late

1959 CASTRO showed up and imposed his slate, a Communist slate for

the most part on she congress. Subject was equired to tars quar

CONFIDENTIAL

281197

1 49-780-71

XAA2 - 38151

019-124-23393

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

-29

odono

his post as foreign relations secretary to-erion ALVAREZ! He

and ALVAREZ had been on opposite ends politically in previous

years, when ALVAZEZ was working at the Chase Manhattan Bank in

Havana and sepresenting the bank workers union, but they had

put aside their differences to work together against BATISTA®

Then, when CASTRO Came along he propelled ALVAREZ to the post in

the CTC to which Subject had democratically been chosen. The

imposition of CASTRO's slate took place at a CTC congress in Nov

1960• He claims that he has never seen ALVAREZ since the business

of turning over his files to ALVAREZ was done in 1960. He knows

of course that ALVAREZ went on to other jobs, eventually to the

Cuban Embassy in Madrid, and eventually defected to the US. He

claims to have no use for ALVAREZ, he'& a dedicated Commie and he

wouldn't trust isn

currently morking with the Human Kights Commission in washington,

DC. Subject says that some 30 years ago when he knew her pretty

well she was denocratic or leftist in her politics but very left

Ist in her economics. He described her as a revolutidnary of a

sort, with 1ors of prestige in Cuba in those days.

imp 1242-1303552

5. So far as he's aMa re there was only one Octavlo BARROSO se

the one you're talking about is the same one

known to him, the

sage one shot in late 1961 or early 1962, he's not certain exactly

when. He claims that PUJAL and BARROSO were captured at the same

PUJAL who reported to G-2 on

do it. There were others in jail at that time, also, he says, who

could have told G2 about BARROSO's revolutionary activities As

stated,

that question, as did the one on the TV program, visibly

upset him so I'm not at all sure that we got the truth,

Subject was arrested on ll October 1961 In a raid on the

cesar Odio Farm, along with a number of

allegedly placing a bomb in a commany there in Havana called CIA.!

Subject was carrying documentation in alias but almost imediately

he was confronted with Dalia who identified him to li?. But, the

most irportant evidence is the fact that over the next fen days

and weeks those known to Dalia in that organization were arres:ed;

those not known to her were not. Although alledgedly arrested

planting a bomb, she was almost immediately released and was eoon

valking the street. A few months later Dalia had married a lieutenan

In G-2. She later divorced the lieutenant RuBhEre, a nepher coul

in Mianto

The IV program - why? It was the first such appearance by anyo:

arrested that could be called in favor or CASTRO.

The MP had a pact amongst themselves, he claims, mich stated

O Jade on, gon evie do a scolongo who defected do u.

---

## Page 3

•3-

CONFIDENTIAL

that anyone captured would not talk for 72 hours, to give those

still free time to change hidding places,

etc, then one would be

permitted, if forced 8o, to tell minor things, things it was

throught the Go? might already know.

He was taken to a place referred to as POINT X and stripped

naked. He was interrogated almost continuously, lights were kept

on and all sorts of threats were made against him. He could hear

• Minister of Foreign Kelationg, but then just a secretary to the

alinistry of Interior, MALMIERCA was assisted at times by Lt,

ALFONSO (fnu), apparently an assistant tO MALMIERCA, Who was men

more Intelligent and much better trained than MALMIERCA, The

latter did a poor job and got little out of subject but ALFONSO

did a much better job o

¡After several days he was told that CASTRO himself would visit

/him and: personally conduct the interrogatión. He claims

told MALMIERCA that that would do no good for it was CASTRO himself

he helped to teach Subject many years before how to fight the

omnies and prevent their penetration into the labor, movement

is a result, he says CASTRO did not come but: RamiroVALDEz did.

VALDEZ told him that the decision had already been made not

to shoot hin (Subject) but that some of most of the military

section people of his organization (MRP) in jail wouldhave to

pay with their lives for what they,

Subject and others of the

MRP had done. The only way he could save them, VALDEZ said, would

be to go on IV and tell the nation what his organization had been

doing, tell them how useless resistance to CASIRO was, and at the

same time condem the US for its corplicity in anti-CASTRO efforts+

Now, subject claims shat some of this fitted after a fashion into

his own thinking and size up of the state of things. He claias that

1) he had decided sone time earlier that internal resistance of the

sort the MRP was dorducting was useless, and 2) that it would be

better to leave the country and fight fron abroad, and 3) phat he

had proposed just such a nove at a large meeting of MRP leaders

held just a few days before his capture. However, the

workers"

representatives at that meeting did not support such a

move so no action was taken, then came his own arrest.

bazooka from a room overlooking a dublic plama where

to appear on 4 October 1961, and VALDEZ had found out about these

plans, through Dalia, Subject assunes. Anyway, Subject clains

that three people were to have gone un to the room, which had been

preperly prepared and an escape route worked out, just prior to

the ceremony. Of the three,

#cold feet and took off for the States instead. Radi'VENTA Del

Mazo was there but did not fire the weapon, for some reason not

known to Subject,

name he could not

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

Well, believing that such resistance activities were in

fact futile and beiieving

that CASIRO would in fact shoot

his men, and believing that he could all alone determine

what was to be said on TY

he decided that to aciept the offer

was the correct thing to do. He could not hate the blood of

others on his hand, he said, unless something very worthwhile

was being accomplished. He professed to VALDEZ, however, that he

had no authority all by himself to make that decis:on and asked

to discuss it with three or four MRP leaders there in jail with

him. VALDEZ agreed that he could discuss it withFfernando RUJAS

but with no one else, and that was done. ROJAS reluctantly

approved.

He wrote the presentation he was to give on IV and he siad

no substantive changes were made by the Cubans. He constructed

1t,

he saij, to l) tell them as much as possible what they

wanted tohear without doirg any real harm,

2) protect those

still at large, and 3) give away as little senstitive information

as possible. He said he realized fully what he was doing, that

he would do it açain if caught in the same situation, and that

he takes full responsibility now as then for what he did and

said and still feels it was the only logical think he could

do. Again, this was not a subject he enjoyed discussing; he appear

ed

in fact a bit embarassed by 18 all, but he knew it would be

coming at some pointe

8. Why didn't the Cubans release him after the ransom was paid

them? Because

he would not sign a paper in effect saying pexas

orry and askina CASTRO'S foroiveness. He meet with AlONSo PUJO

and three G2 military officers to discuss the relea se and the

conditions of the release one day after the ransom had been paid,

and when he refused the G-2°s conditions PUJOL

paper out and scribbled on it an agreement, which said Subject

would cbligate himself not to become involved again in anti-

CASTRO activities if released, and he agreed to sign that. In

fact, he did sign it. puol then handed it to the military officess

but they said the Cuban out could not accept it. It was after

that that the money was reutined.

a good friend of CASTRO and other high Cuban leaders and of Subject

and his wife.

Subect's wife and GARCIA's wife are particularly

close, as are GARCIA's wife and Subject's children.

10. Subject's wife had contacted, many people, promient people in

an effort to bring about Subject

s release but had had no

the GARCIA"s went to work"on

it. "In early November (he thirks) of

1977 GARCIA and wife visited Cuba and spent sobetime with CASTRO.

CARCIA's wife allegedly sold CASTRO that

she had one important

favor to ask of him, to release a good fliend of theirs who had by

then held for many years. CASTRO promised so do it immediately.

However, by 11 Dec T7 Subject was still not our and GARCIA, on his

male acede sene

see what he could

out. He talked

CIVILIONL

L

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

Carlos Rafael

RODRIGUEZ, WHO RElayed the word to CASTRO and

the latter went to see GARCIA at his hotel room. He told

CAPCIA that he was sorry that he had not been able to release

Subject when promised but that there were many in the top

echelon of gout that mere opposed to his release and that it

took him some time tobring them around. However, he called

or spoke to AbrANtes, who was with him at that time, and told

hie to find Subject and have him brought to G-2 offices the

next morning at 1000 hours, That was done and in fact a u-2

colonel drove Subject to the airport 2 December in the

obtained his passpor?

ete, and he set off at 1700 hours on

ane plane with GarCiA. The Go Colonel who drove hum &

he airport was Colonel Manuel BLANC

• who was generally.

referred to & Malio. Several of our other subjects had contact

with this guy and most found him reasonable, intelligent and

very military

11," CONZALES, who spoke only in Spanish, al though understands

some English

and undubtedly speaks some, is a member of the

committee which helped to negotiate the release of political

prisoners with CASTRO, and he will continue to do all in his

power, he says, to accom plish that objective. He has been

to Janares once to neggtiate with Cuban

authorities, and once

•to Havana. My teas member will cover those activities in his

reporte

12. Subject is working for hinself and has been for sometime;

he is in the used clothes business, and expects to rent a place

for his business

on 8th Street, Sw, in the 5000 block, 1

believe, at an early date. He expects to cater pretty much

to Latin Americans traveling to the US, hopefully mostly

Veneelans and Brazilians for they are the ones with the

most spending money. He's already sold to many of them, has

@ good many friends and contacts in Venezuela, and believes

•that he'll get a lot of business from batin America. He has

a Iriend who is prepared to make a $10,000 loan, and a bank

has agreed to finance him to the tune of $20,000 and it "11

take about $30, 000 80 sock his business adquately. He can

and will get short fer credit from some of his suppliers but

will probably be limited to 60 to 90 days. He's very opticistic

about the future, appears in good health, although somewhat over

weight, and his wife works. The works in the office for a Puerte

Rican backing company.

13. Suvject » as most appreciative for the offer of a physical

examination,

and he knows that he has no money on escion with

the Agency.

Nevertheless, he probably is expecting some financial®

compensation for his time

in prison

although this was never

mentioned specifically. Tidbits of info provided by him on people

on the long list, as well as on others and other subjects will

be or has been included in other reports.

CUINRINENTIAL

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

iritten by Carl Jenkins on basis of Interviens done:

Dobrie: ina Report: 17 & 21 May 1979

Subject:

Biograplical Data, Historical Inforations

Address (25 May 79):

1642 S.* 96th Court. Miam

Florida 33173 (Tel: 305/596-4097

Parentss Basillo G:ZELP? Parez and

Prudencia CO:A.E% Pena (Both deceased when

Subject was an infant.

He was reared as an

orphan, prirarily hy the Catholic Church.)

siblings: None

• Míes Teresita ALVARE~ Fernandez.

20 Aug 34, Sagua La

Grande, Las Villas, Cuba

Children: Twins: Reinol A. CO 2Air% Alvarez, and

Cecilla Marla GO'YALCE Alvarez (born

20 Oct 61, Miami, Florida.

Both

completing 12th grade 1979.)

Contact infomation os wife, Tersita: Secretary for

Savoy Packina Co. Sales Defice, 144 Brichell Avenue,

Harl, Florida.

(Tel: 315 374-7079)

In 1959, Subject was a labor union leader in the bank

workers" section of the Union of Christian Yorkers (UTC). In

November 1959, Cormunists too% control of the Cuban Labor

Confederation (CTC). subject opposed that nove and was one of

the founders of the Accion Denocratica Revolucionaria (ADR) •

NOS ANATO MIALO. Subject Bast sale contact with the Agency

In 1959 through Rev. Enrique OSIF., who introduced Subject to

#5 201-2544461

,Professor James O'MAILIA ("Pepe") of villanueva University

an Agency representative, "Pepe" offered economic help and

arrus for the antí-Castro labor novement.

The ADR began anti-

CONFIDENTIAL

108-975948

mis matar

---

## Page 7

."::

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, Feinoi

lage 2

Castro activitles by Jan/Teb 60. Subject dealt with "Pepe" on

behal! of the ADR. The ADR was ahsorhed into the IRP when 1t

was organized in Octoher 1969. The MRP leaders were all forar

GOC officials who had broken with Castro. Subject was

Coordinator of Labor Activitles for the MRP.

In Septenber 1950, Subject decided to go to Miani to

249441-607439

confer with Mamel ATTI'T. luesa, the external representative

of the MRR. He told "Pape", who arranged a visa for subject

•In four hours. In Miani, Sabject met at the PanAnerican Fotel

with "Mr. Jin Smith" (actually Jim Brown, a Miani Case Officer)

In a private neeting. Subject told "Smith" money was not

needed In Cuba, they needed arms and materials. Subject told

nobody he was going to Miani. He went first to Puerto Rico

to a lahor meeting for cover, then to Mianl. Back in Cuba,

Subject arranged three supply drops through "Pepe" in Dec 60/

Jan 61. Two fell Into Security hands, and one went to a MRP.

group in the Escanbray. "Pepe" liver in !!iranar and staved in

Cuba until about Dee 61. Subject was in touch with hin w:til

Subject's arrest in cet 61. suhlect algo knew Jose puros

Mederos (possibly PAJAIS) as an agent trained by the Agenty

in the U.S., who worked with the iRp and the small Un group.

In late 1960, an internal fight broke out in the MRP.

The MRP had been sending 0S$30, 000 per month from pesos collected

and changed in Cuba on the black market to Miani to pay for

the uRe people in Mani kept the noney and the agency

T +11-229598263865

supplied the arns. Subject had put Manuel RAY, IRP leader,

on a boat at Varadero to Miani. Subject was then handling

524-332107

inf11/exfil and supply drops. Ray left Rogelio CIS:TEROS as

internal "IP coordinator. Ray falled to straighten out the

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, Reinol

Page 3

ness in Miars and the internal MRP expelled him, recognizing an

their representatives Isnaelo MInOZA' in Miami, and Antonio

PERVANDER BUeVO, JOse PRINZE, and Gustavo GODOY. Subjea

tried to stay out o! internal fights and continued working

directly with "Pepe". In March 1961, Cisneros went to klam

In an effort to get nore arms for the M11P, and never came back.

Subject was named internal coordinator until his arrest in

October 1961.

In late 1960, there was a series of reetings designed to

unify the opposition to Castro. Subject met at one time or

another with the following people:

Alberto cruz' of the Rescate Organization (dird of cancar)

David SALVADORI of the 30 Nov Movement

Octallo Bit 9o Sonez, the only credible jeader of the

Ball UR grOUD. He was shot after being arrested and

enrtured.

Juan FALCOT of the Mer

Alberto SuLLeT of the DrEs

Subject proposca to dissolve all existing organizationa

and form one new one to lean the fight. No agreement was

ever reached, not even for unified military action or unified

political action. The iRa/DRE had the nost numbers and refused

to cooperate, saying they had all they needed and could do

the Job themselyes a Jor spokesman fror Mand was a DRE

201-210721

member, Julio HERAlDE? Rojo.

• After the Invasion, Pujol sent Alfredo IZAGUIRRE, who had

worked for hin, to the laS. In the U.S., Alfredo did not

represent Pajol, but clained hinsel to be chief of the HIRP/UR

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 9

tof

Go.281% Conzalez, Beinol

Pago 4

• CONFIDENTIAL

group. on his return to cuba, Mlarero claimed to be appointed

by Mashington as overall resistance chio! for all of Cuba.

Subject and Pujol refused to cooperate with hir.

Arreste Investication:

On 30 Sep 61, an MRP nember nared Dalla JORGE was arrested

putting a bonh in the Habana Sears store. Ten days later, on

12 Oct 61, Subject was arrested. Subject believes she may

have been a G? penetration, or she may just have been recruited

by them. Everybody she knew was arrested, the ones she didn't

know vere not. At a r? confrontation, she identified Subject

by true name and personal data, along with other MRP members.

After a trial, she was freed and married a G2 officer, name

unknom. They were later divorced and she sarried Carlos

1261-116925

RUBIERA, nepher of Vicente RUNIPPA, a forner leader of the

Cuban Telephone Horkers! Union, now in Pliami as API/CIO rep

resentative.

Other Me methere arrested rese lesmando Rosas.

In Caracas) , and Roberto JI'FNF.2.

+ 681-2495667

Then G2 officer (now Foreion Minister) IsidOro MAIlIURCA,

assisted by & Lleutenant "Alfonso", who did most of the

questioning, interrogated Subject and the MRP group. They

were the only ones to work on Subject, hut uged many sessions

and long hours. They said Pidel Castro wanted to talk to

Subject. Pidel never came, but Raniro Valdez did. Subject

agreed to make a TV Interview (7 Nov 61) in return for the

Iives of the people in his grown.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

14-00000

GOTAREZ Sonzaler, Reinoi

Page 5

• CUNFIDENTIAL

Prisone Intellicence, Information:

In late 1969, a committee of prisoners at Guanajay, cot

pored of subject, Alerto suller In Fernanded, Antonio

Copado, Miguel Careia Armengol, not ulth a representative of

the Ministry O° the Interior, Leutenant Mariano Rodriguer and

the Guanajay Director, Ileutenant Cosne. The purpose was to

work out a work-rehabilitation plan without political indoe

trination. They had three forral and several inforral

meetings while visiting proposed work sites for schools,

pig farms, etc. The Prooressive Plan from the Ministry of

the Interior cane in February 19%0 as a result of these dig

cussions. The plan was essentially that proposed by the

prisoners, but the GOC added a provian to "attend discussions

of political matters." About 100 prisoners agreed, others

refused. The Ministry people explained it would consist only ~

of listening to soc officials reading liarxist parphlets. The

prisoners still refused. The Ministry finally struck that

point and published the plan, without reference to political

natters. The work rehabilitation progran then began about

late 1970 or early 1971.

In 1970, & Soviet General, advisor to the linistry of

the Inteslor, made an inspection of ruanajay, with 8 or 10

other Soviets. Their escort was a lstit, nou a lajor (name

unknord, fre the Ministry, me prisoners nace a big racket

In the messhall, banging plates, etc.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 11

GONZALEr Gonzalez, tinc".

P279

• CONFIDENTIAL

Subject has no knowledre of Cubans in Vietnam

+ 2412156387

Subject's cousin, Rene DIAZ fonzales, served In Angola-

for 12 nonths in 197576 as a Platoon Corporal in the notorized

infantry. He was wounded in the right leg in an ambush by a

• nine. His unit was isolated in the operations area and sur

vived on a supply o! condensed milk they had with ther. Dias

nomally works as an electrician in a bus factory at Jiron in

Havana. Subject also met Lazaro IFTIANDEl, a Cuban negro

soldier, who was ordered to put on a local iniform and try to

pass as an

Angolan to mix with the locals and gather infornation. Hernandez

refused, was arrested, sent back to Santa Amelia army camp

near Habana for trial and sentencino.

Renson and Release

In/Rigist°Ig%8, before the ransom money for subject was

paid, GuilletTO AIONEO Pujol' and 2 Cuban rilitary officere

talked to Subject at 62 Fas about a ranson deal Alonso was

handling. They wanted him to agree to a political indoctri-

nation rehabilitation progran, which Subject rejected. Alonso

proposed that Subject sim a letter renouncing any further

political activities, but the GOC representatives rejected

that deal. Subject went back: to Guanajay prison.

About Aug. 70, after the ransom money was paid, 3 or 4

GOC officers came to Subject bringino unacceptable conditions

for his release. He refused to (1) sign a document apologizing

for his past actions: (2) sion a docurent that, at the tine he

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 12

14-00000

CONZALEZ Gonzalez, ResoR! IDENTIAL

Page

7.

was captured and interrogated, Subject had tried to mislead

and give false infornation: (3) Subject would agree to work

as an agent for the foc wherever they needed him. Subject

refused. Fidel Castro sent hack the ranson soney, and Subjert

again went back to Guanajay.

Subject was told on llDecly that he would be released

the next day. This was a result of a carpalyn by his vite,

Teresita, through an old Canily friend, Gabriel GARCIA Marquez,

and his vife. Garcia is à Mexican pro-'larxist novelist and

Journalist with high-level Influence in Cuba. His wife,

Mercedes, is a close friend of Teresita and the twins. From

late 1976, Teresita stayed in contact with the Garcias on

behalf of Subject. In the Fall of 1977, Gabriel and Mercedes

went to Cuba to ask Pidel Castro to release Subject. On the

way from the airport in his car, Mercedes told Fidel she had

one difficult request for him, which was to release subject.

Fidel said that was no probler, that he would do it. The

Garcias waited a few days, but nothing happened, and they went

back to Mexico.

About 6 weeks later, in early Dec77, Gabriel Garcia went

through Habana to Spain to receive a journalisn award. He

called Carlos Rafael Rodriguez and said he was irritated with

Fidel because he had broken his worr? aud not released Subject.

Later that day, Fidel went to Gahriel's hotel room and Gabriel

told him the sane thing. Pidel appeared not to be aware that

CONFIDENTIAL'

---

## Page 13

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, Reinol

Page 8

ubject was not already released, and ca

over and told him, "Pind Subject and bring hin here." Within

6 hours, Subject was out of jail, had a passport and exit

Visa, and was ready to leave.

Subject was on pass, visiting relatives in Habana that

day, 11Dec77. A "G2 officer" phoned Subject and told hin not

to leave the house until firther notice. Subject was afraid

because he was just then in the midate of an escape plan, wath

Enrique CEPEROS and the son of Jose (bI) RIOS, who had been

studying in Cuba. Subject had sent a note to his wife for

"Pepe" (O'Mallia), now retired and living in Miant, to arrange

for a boat to pick then up at a beach Subject had designated.

Young Del Rios had been arrested 3 days before and Subject was

afraid he had talked about the exfiltration plan.

Subject stayed at the house until a 62 officer case,

showed his ID card, and told subject to be at a specific spot

on the street about 10 blocks away at exactly 10:00 the follow

Ing norning, that an official of the Ministry of Interior

wanted to see him. As Subject walked toward the spot the next

morning, about 3 or 1 blocks avay a white auto care by, stopped,

and 3 or 4 men grabbed Subject and put hir in the car, which

want at high speed to G2 liqs. On the way, the driver told

Subject that Fidel Castro had ordered his release as a result

of Gabriel's intervention. At Has, the "driver" turned out

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 14

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, ReSONFIDENTIAL

Page 9

to be "Colonel Manyo" (Yando) aLaco rernandez), security

Director for Prisons, and a man with whor Subject had conspired

against Batista yearg before. Manyo took Subject to the plane

about 3 or 4 hours later and put him on the flight with Gabriel.

Also on board was Carlos Rafael Podriquez, who was In First

Class, but care back and asked Subject about Fernando (DE) ROJAS

Pinochet, a friend of Subject fron Accion Catolica and the HIRP.

prisoner Release !leantiations

12Dec77, on the plane from habana to Hadrid, Carlos

Rafael Rodriguez told Subject he had a generally favorable

attitude toward the release of political prisoners, he thought

the GOC was ready to discuss it and nayhe something could be

worked out. Subject talked to fahriel about the prospects on

the plane and later in Spain. Then Subject got to the U.S.,

he wrote letters about prisoner relpase to friends in Venezu

ela in COPRI. This went on through llay, June, and into July

1978. Through fabriel Garcia In l'exico, Subject sent a nessage

to Sergio Del Valle, Minister of the Interior, saying Subject

wanted to talk to somebody outside Cuba about prisoner release.

The answer was that the GOC was reary, and Subject could come

to Cuba in July 1978. Subject refused to go bach to Cuba at

that time, and suggested Kingston. The GOC accepted.

Prior to this tine, a Mr. Pisher" fron the Agency had

cone to Miant to talk with Subject, who now sent a letter to

"SI. Pescador" via the P.O. Box of Catherine llardy in Washing-

ton. Subject tried to indicate what he was up to and hoped to

get somebody down to lilani to talk with, so subject Could

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 15

14-00000

5-19910

CONFIDS:

GONZALEZ Gonzaiez, Reinol

Page 10

explair. What dis haupening. He got to response.

Subject and his wife, Teresita, vent to Jamaica in Jul78,

where they met Col, Manyo, with Justo' BETA!COURT Ge, described

by Subject as a dangerous Cuhan Intelligence agent and former

Consul in Spain. They told subject to check in at the Sheraton

and wait. In about a half-hour, they called Subject and wife

to the restaurant. Cuban Embassy wives took Teresita on a

tour, while Subject settled in with Manyo, Betancourt, and

Ranon DE LA CRUz, Vice-Consul, In a suite where they talked

until 03:00 the next morning (Saturday night and Sunday norning.)

Subject had a list of 12 people to discuss for initial

releases su anois

Paula GRAU - (The GOC reprosentatives said OK, provided

her son, "Monchy"Grau, who owns the A-C

Stationery Store In "iant, would deal directly

with then.

He did, and they released her

duf (soon thereafter.)

Fernando; DE) ROJAS

Enrique

A 'CEPERO

iX dut

Antonio

COPADC

dul

Raul FERVANDEZ RiverO

d. 99!?%

IO1S GARCIA Menocal

ArturO MARTINEZ Pagarday

75 506. 754840

Santiago ECHMANDIA Orsini, M.D.

Nelson CASTELLAYOS Manendex

7y 904210721

JUlLO HERVANDEZ ROjdup

and 3 other names not remenbered at time of Interview.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 16

14-00000

GO:IZAIPZ Gonzalez,

CONFIT N

Reinol

Page

11

The GOe representatives made the following points:

(1) They didn't want sone of the names included, but did vant

some others to be added.

(2) They wanted more prisoners included, not so few.

(3) They wanted a campaign to convince the U.s.. to inprove

relations.

(4) They wanted the U.S. blockade dropped.

(5) They wanted to stop violent action against Cuba by refugees.

(6) They wanted pressure groups of refugeus going to Washington

to Influence the USG along the lines above.

Subject said he had no control over any of those things,

that he had gone on a personal, humanitarian sission but the

GOC wanted to raise the talks to a higher, more political

level, and apparently wanted them in Habana. The COC refre

sentatives

asked Subject to suggest some names for a prisener

release comission. Subject said he could, but they would be

people of his own convictions, 1.C. with humanitarian, not

political, Interests subject put forth the nanes of

Bishop Eduardo Boza Plasvidal, of Miant

ev• Enrique OSLE, a Puerto Rican Jesuit now in Miam

ReT, Guillero APTAS, a Caban Jesult, now in Miam!, sio

a Cuban exile in Venezuela who Is

Asst Secy of the Confederation of Latin American Workers.

Pernando MiNA, & forner prisoner released in 1970 men his

term was complete, and now living in Miani.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 17

Haste

ur. 40.t 4og

CONFIDENTL

CONZALEZ Gonzalez,

Reinol

Page dz

JeRUS AS CARROTEL, Cuban Consul at kingston and a Do

officer, sent a Telex to Habana about midnight and got back

an approval nessage in a couple of hours. The COC repreten

tatives invited Subjec. and wife to a Sunday afternoon dinner

party on the rooftop of the Pegasa Hotel, next to the Sheraton.

The entire Cuban delegation, about 15 officials, was there,

but only 3 or 4 wives. There was an orchestra with violing.

Col. Manyo had gone to the market to buy spray deodorant for

hinself and gifts for the children of Subject and his wife.

On Honday, Subject and his wife returned to Miari.

Several wecks later, Subject received a nessage, though

a phone call from Gabriel Garcia and another call fron

Carbonell in Ringston, that the first prisoners would coms

out in September 1978 (they actually came in October), and

that some of the people on his list, particularly De Rojas

and Echemendia, would he included. Subject was invited to

go to Habana and come back with the released prisoners. Fe

got the nares of others invited to go the first trip fron

Bernardo BENES, a banker in Miani. The GOC had sent the

nanes to hird A neeting of the group was called at the home

of Ortando PADRCH in Miami.

Espinoza is a COC agent who has political commitnents in Caba

and speaks highly of Pidel Castro.. Subject told Benes that,

If Espinoza vent, Subject would not. Subject said he would

work on a humanitarian operation, not on a political one.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 18

..

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, Reinol

CONFIDENTIAL

Page 13

Benes had already accepted Espinoza. Subject still refused.

Benes called Carbonell in Janaica, who tried to talk Subject

Into going. Subject was adamant. Carbonell said he would

check with Fabana. About 2 hourslater, Carbonell called

Benes at Padron's house and said they could drop Espinoza,.

but to he sure and send Subject. (To Subject, this is nore.

evidence that Espinoza is a controlled agent and the Goc can

afford to sacrifice hin if necessary.)

Betancourt met the Oct78 flight, along with other COC

officials, and the group was treated as though they were

diplomats. The next day, a message cane to the guest house

that Fidel

_Castro wanted to see then. He came and net with

the group alone. There was nobody else fron the Goc and no

apparent taping or other records kept. They talked about 2 hours

A on prisoner release. Then reporters cane in, Including Goorge

VOlATY Of PEPLICA and the NIM YORE TIES, Helga SIlva and

Bonnie Anderson of the MIAMI HERALD. (Anderson's father had

been shot in Caba by Castro and she wanted to visit his

torb. On the third trip, the was alloved to do so.)

In the 2 hour reeting, fidel and the 5 people on the

conmittee agreed on ground rules. In an exchange with Fidel,

subject made the point that, in this situation, everybody at

the table would be winners if it worked, but all would be

losers 1f it falled. Pidel would gain in International

stature, while the cornittre would gain the prisoners'

release and make a start toward reunification of the Cuban

family. The others in his group were a little shocked and

_CONFIDENTIAL.-

---

## Page 19

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL.

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, • Reinol

Page 14

afraid at Subject's frank statement, but Pidel agreed with him.

When Fidel came in, Benes toor: him around making introduc

tions, When they cane to subject, fidel said, "Yes, we are

old frlends."

At a coffee break, Msgr. Bosquet was the only

one to hear the following exchange. Fidel told Subject that

he would have heen released much sooner except that many people

In the GOC opposed it because Subject had burned the El Encanto

Departmest Store on 16 April 1961. Pidol said Subject had done

it as a preliminary "to the invasion that he knew was coning

the next day. Subject reolled that he had not done it, and

had known nothing ahout the invasion any more than was known

on the strcet at the tino.

The most substantive matters were about prisoner rclease,

the Cuban cormunity In Miami, and about anti-Castro terrorist

activities. Piel said that if there wore no further such

acts, It would be a sign that the USG had taken proper control

measures, but if terrorism breaks out again, It would mean the

USG had allowed it to happen.

Current Personal Situation

Subject went fron Habana to Spain in Dec77, and to

Miami In Jan78. for about 3 nonths, he worked as an account

ant in a clothing factory, then he switched to the VIASA

airline until Oct78. He quit to for his own small company,

and because the job with VIASA left too little time free to

work on prisoner exchange. Subject has tried to put together

an import-export business in clothing, but has too gnall a

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 20

i

Page 15

capital base. Currently, he is working out of his car

selling clothing, particularly to visiting foreigners such

as Venezuelans. Subject is nerotiating to rent for $200 a

month for 5 vears a hi-fi store hetween Sth and 6th Avenues

on S.l. 8th Street in Mani. Ile would change it into a

clothing store, so his wife could work with hin and try to

build up their clientele of wealthy Venezuelan and other

slaitors.

The twins are completing high schoofhoth kids have

behaved well, worked hard, and made outstanding grades. Te

boy has been accepted at Tulane University to study dentistry

and has reccived a financial grant in ald. The girl 1s

accepted at the International Fine Arts Collego in Miant to

study interior decorating and is applying for a grant in ald -

not yet received. subject's fanily has heen recelving $350

per month as dependency paynents. Subject says there are no

major fanily problers.

.."

19952014864406919116:194653

GONZALEZ Gonzalez,

Reinol

CONFIDENTIAL

Conments from Rafael Ouintero and Javier Souto:

Subject was friendly with Andres Cao and Santiago

/ Echemendia in prison. They say he agreed to the tV interview

In 1961 In return for an agreement not to kill any people in

hig group. Subject negotiated on prisoner release with fidel

Castro, and is now a member of the Cormittee of 75 (prisoner

release groupo) Subject has gone back to cuba to pick up

returning prisoners, and was with the first group in Oct78.

CONFIDENTIAL

201-275949

190787-55651

4+756050943 5-55

---

