# 104-10183-10427

## Page 1

104-10183-10427

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce:

¡usica contacto in auropes

ALAST 2

A6DSS-35

Juan cury Valner - unas

wever friend in love and Geneva,

Jose Luis LIOVIO;Y -enender (lives in Paris

arried to a cousin of the Coste

HEY Flaco"

de-Paris)

Pose Veneras Valdespino "

possible still back in Havanad Vice President. of

the

International Undon or Students (TVs) in Presie, Aka Cl Chino" and

actine fluves estre (in airid - Las? knows hoth eves brothers well othe

roter still in Cuba. Trusta co:

hern triube Lora'- Spain

Alerica Cisneros and her hushand ario Fissolo. Liring Paris.

"Cato Cordites - Luis Truso GARCIA Cerdeira. Tries to find out LASHeS plans foi

French intelligence, for which hy works:

Dangerous to LASH - Hut Eight try

*strick a station lf saying rels a irjend - wrich he actually 13.

Fustaro ARClo j-Jergnes - Cuian Icassador to Polziur. Currently still Is: larana,

lie nick.

L'is dISPO castro - gool friend to 1151-1, Giorked hárd in Cuba to gotCUllAF?

back in his

job

when he was first, fired in Paris in early' h4 or so.

02

travels constantly letween favans and Turope hiring ships and materiel for

castro.

His

vie

3 LAs carrot de miled out.

well - and for dong.

0z

=/9 - and his wife,

-117: d01

- 06

"Cucut de

A2ID0Y-1/11431-1 contact.

Torally dani - travels Spain

02(")

15 - Was in

aguin - coiu faris.

"'cor itter nervous treiilow.

Polipa.

TASHI believes

"erran!'?

- CI.

Gool friend to lish for a long ties. jaes a second

hie recruitable.

"e travels to Turope - so Ils could 'use rin.

passport in nare of jacinto finneros.

arolo (anuel) RAY ¿ Rivero - Ah. 1.

LAS:: in contact - and RAY travols to

Europe from tire to tire.

¿anor-i's crew wio travel to Spain on IASH'-1 busiess:

Jiael Jurello diired Martia

Trios Felipe

F10:10

ilse

Espere

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

