# 104-10171-10037

## Page 1

104-10171-10037

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

APRIL PROGRESS REPORT

soction

: PU

Asset

: Diractorio Rovolucionario Estudientil (ORE)

Cose Officer: Harold R. MOEMAYA

GEMERAL

Despite reports end eccusations to the contrary (NAVE 2799). the student

Revolutionary Directorate li responding to KUBARX guidance and control mich

increasing docibility:

Their wlthdrawal from the AMBUD complex (NAVE 2066)

and subsoguent condemation of prisoner ranson (HAVE 2799) has boan a morale boost

for thalr clandestino organizacion withlin PARUMEN as wall as salva do chair

Irratations at KUBARK qualifled support: nemely, closer scrutiny of funding.

Ilaltod and professional infiltration of thelr agents, and denlal of support for

thalr Independent maritime affort. Milla sons l6 of their fully trained AMHINT

Infiltration agents are selll watching the clock and hoping, the DRE Executive

comuletoo hava turned to the AMBARS projact for sons lasgindelva did affactivo

aparations.

1: AMBARB PROJECT:

1. Support and Processing:

a: Toral numbar of candidatas processad to dato: 75

b..

Total nueber assignad: 40 (Son attachod Status List)

c. Total assigned during April 1962: 3

d. Total Financial Support:

Subsistanco:

Oparations:

$12.100.00

2.365.00

gporations:

•, Oy 9 April 1962, the rodlo network by AMBARBS directed egalnst the

deniad arsa had boon Incrossed to ll countrias and totalled about

184 progress per sonth. (UFGA 3733)

b.

About 13 April, AMBARS delegatos in 15 countrius more sons about

50,000 leaflets with a 360-namo and addross lIst for danlad aroa

aalling operation. (UFGA 3811)

c.

Excerpts from Ecuadorean Press and rapores froa. AMBARBS dullo and

Quayagull hans Indicated thist such of the quolle incorest and agitarion.

for Ecuadorean brask In diplomatic rolations with PARUMEN mas goner

atad by AMBAR8 agil/prop operations which began wich the domunstration

of 10,000 baforo tha prasidantial palaco In lanuary. (KAVE 0841)

-.ii

UFGA YSLY

ATT

"B"

RETURA TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduss

---

## Page 2

104-10171-10037

•2 .

d.

'On 20 AprIl 1962, AMBARB 36 and 60 roportad their theft of a Soyler

sall pouch at the National Alrport in Montivadoo:

This was turned

orror to the Montlvadeo Station contact and WAVE Is Chocking on this

currently.

Acting on haadquartars proposal (DIR 04029) to senu a student ogle/prop

through aight countrias in Africa in preparation for forthcoming

student congresses, an AMBARS loss of four is preparing mitorials,

documentation,

Itinerory, acsion plan and contocts for this cou..

(HAVE 2854, HAVE 3067)

During April, in Venezuela, LSICARl (an ABARA stolen by Station) and

ANNINT-S (raquasiod by station)

contined training and organizatior

of Accion Dodocratica youth in Guerrilla warfare ind ant i-communias

• faciles. This activity is raported under statlon direction.

In Ecuador, the "Accion AntI-Cossurista Ecuadoreano orgainiad by

AMBARB-28 and 65 Is now estimarad to toial stout 5.000 parsons with.

hilor and in sore chao c lage he do and move prop into ing

translated and printod In the "Quichus' Indian dialect.

In Uruguay, Cha "Morlalanto da Rocuparacion Moral Univorsicario"

as organized by AMBAR8-59, 36. and 60 has now panatrated all facultles

of the University in their struggle againsi the Corianiss docilnaced

FEUU (FodoracIon Estudlent)l Univers/tarlo Uruguayo).

3. _Plans and Porential:

.

fInanclal support to tha AMBAR$ projoct must be acceleratad for

aporations.

There Is an obrious lock of proportion baturan salarles

and oparational funds, especlally la vlos of thair porontlal as

recogrilzad by UH, Task Force l and palaVE.

o.

JAVE as a station has not nocognized the urgency of assignment of

casa officers for AMBARA devalopaent alone.

all station ectivitias

at prasont are dedicatad to this processing and the oparational potentlal

Is nogloctod.

Whon HAVE. Is: properly staffed and AMBARBS are full strength, tho

following potentlal axists:

I-Thilrid country oporations against the denled area for intelligence.

2.- Third country oparations egalist the denled arou for sabotago,

agit/prop, and genoration of Incarnational repudiation to tha coc.

3-Lacal student and youth organizations with overt and covert actlvities

designad to panetrated and combat contur. ist penetration in schools

and un/versities of all Latin America.

YPV

---

## Page 3

104-10171-10037

bad contining progree of Indocerination at all levels In asch country

Dy a student of a PBRUEN nation that has actually suffarad Consunist

sadorover.

5-8lack operailons against tha denlod aros and within the host country.

18. AKHINTS

1. Support and Procesalogi

Finincial support for MHINT oparations in PBRUMEN for April consistod

of $3.000.00 sont in through the black markas axchanga.: $25.000.00

have boan vouchered and are swalting InfIltration of AMMiNT - 53

scheduled for. 10 May 1962.

DurIng AprIl $725.00 vas sent in $25.00

sanity orders for funding familles of AMHINT Donbars la thale departuro.

•b.

ANMINTS courlar a messago to Miaal requesting a llar of eloctronic

•supplies for ino saall radlo sars and preparation of aloctronic.

•detonsting devices: RiMM is working on procurement of these ltono"

which are to be sene In partly in diplomatic pouch and partly in ino

filtration operations.

c.

WAVE has procassed AMMINT-52 as thair Radop who Is axpociod to begin

training by the and of April.

subject: Is In the procoss of evaluation

and LEFLUTTER.

?. Operallons:

ANHIAT clandesting rodias spent the first wook In Aprll painting black

DRE sIgns In Morana, Vodado, Marianao, on malls and cars.

b. Also during the first book, a bomb was exploded in a Canaguay col lego

setting fire to the sull torlum.

Dur lag early April a bomb mas axplodad in front of the Marianso

Muniel pal govarnsent offices.

d. A repors from thair Action roans In Mavano Province Indicates shelr

ast cacho of 400 Ibs of C-y plastic Is almost exhaustad.

•.

During the entire nonch of AprlI, IMHINT skindivors hove worked along

the north coast of Hatanzas collecting aboratlonal Intelligenca. for

forrheaaing supply operations.

This informelon should be avallablo

sonatina during May and duno.

suring the third wask in April, agle/prop todas pasted DRE seals on

automoblles tiroughout the general greater Havana area.

Durlag the firse too sooks, more chan 10.000 coplas of "Trirchera"

ene official DRE organ, mera printed and distribution in Havana.

• Matarzas, Plar del Rio and Oriençe.

---

## Page 4

104-10171-10037

h.

AHINT prop roams are printing ORE "Bonos" (funding certificatos)

In saall denominations for Internal suppore.

A courler sessago roques /eloning alectronle suppiles for saall radio

plants and alectronle detonators is currantly being studied for

procurement by Rist and will be shipped in by diplomatic pouches and

Infiltration then procured.

AHHINT action toous In Northern Matanzas are buring cone end tianaquin

fialds using saall condles

as tlaa delay Ignitors.

4. Training:

•. AMHINT-53 enterad clandestine tradecraft training in preparation for

his PORUMEM InfIltration scheduled for about 10 May 1962.

b.

14 Trainod AHHINTS ameleIng Infiltration in Mianl have boen procuring

waapons. locally and golng out into the evarglado ares for sasll arias

practica, and holding classos on general theory revlev of thalr

tralning on sabotago, demolItlon and Guerrilla warfaro.

AHHINT: sarltina soction has a socuro base at Hillars dock: In Marathon

where they have thalr SAVIN ll barthod.

They have craw quartors and

havo fülly oquippod the vessal wich tho exception of radar at thair

com axpansa.

On 28 AprIl a shakedonn run was nade fron basa to El bou

Kay thence Varadero and Cardenes aras and return lo basa.: All equiprant

oporatod woll and AMHINT-40, 21, 42, and 42 vero on as cross.

If HAVE

support for their operations Is not approved ll can bo expected that

thay will aake ovory

effor: to aparato Indopendently and without tha

vital coordination for such operations.

HAROLO R. NOEMAYR

---

