# 104-10185-10061

## Page 1

104-10185-10061

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

DISPATCH

Chief, KUDOVE/D

ATTENTION: James N. RABNEY

• Chief of Base,

15-3

Chief of Station,

15-9

LAURICLE

ACTION REQUIRED

FYI

REFERENCE-SI

[OTTA - 27127 (not sent Headquarters)

CLASSES. LATINA

TOP SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Uo.r...,

Do NotE

1-i5=6

DO AND NO

COIRA - 25700

TEADQUASTEOS FILE NO

{157-6 - 18/3

DATE

29 November 1960

83} - ICHECK "N" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDERING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALTIED NO DESE ONLY

1, Forwarded as Attachment A In translation and original language

are three reports on Giovanni SABATIl, Francesco CUCCAGNA, and Guerrino

15-3BERNARDINI which

Jobtained from Identity, Forwarded as Attachment

B'are photographs of the identity cards of these persons which

also

obtained from Identity.

15-3

2. In reference dispatch

19-3

commented as follows:

a) According to Identity, the three Individuals mentioned

In the respective reporis are the persons best suited from

a point of view of ability, reservedness and experience for

utilization in sensitive operations,

He added that he could

• have provided us with the names of more individuals all of

whom, however, would have presented certain pecullar

problems prejudicial to the successful outcome of this type

of operation. On this score, being an old police officer,

Identity immedlately realized that an illegal entry operation

must be in the wind, but did not ask for any details.

b) In passing the requested information, identity advised

that he remuins at our disposal for any further detalls

which might be needed. I necessary he is personally

willing to perform introductions

c) As is evident, the name of Gua VOGRIC (mentioned

by CLARKSON as a possibility based on a casual DEBACON

reference) did not come up. We, therefore, abstained from

making any reference to this person.

3. It may be advisable to make additional checks regarding the personalitles

and political leanings of these persons, especially Bernardini.

4. CLARKSON nowremembers the name of the individual discussed with

RABNEY, SHERIDAN and MAGONETTI to be CUCCAGNA Instead of VOGRIC. However;

it may be also advisable for MAGONETTI to obtain a background report on Gus Vogric.

5. DEPIGRAvi was queried about these individuals and contributed

practicely the same infor to son is MAGONETTI with the exception that Bernardins

, that Sabatii's italianized name is Sabazzi,

Further, that Sabazzi is the proprietor of a Flat model 1100 which he uses to make

trips to Yugoslavia from Trieste, allegedly for the mushroom trade; also that Sabazzi

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

TOP SECRET

DIA] 26100 Page 2

• ExPIcAl as tiraistad with a plan by CLARKSOY whleh we

i spread is indiested unt dis pisa will like inich time since he wil have

hope will result in a detalled report containing Items of intcrest to RABNEY.

to develop the plan i such a manner so as to allay any suspicion.

Forwarded as Attachment C are DEPIGRAM races on the

persons cited above.

HOWARD F. CLARKSON

Approved: Hugh R. SHERIDAN

Attachments: + - A. Background reports (translations and originals)

2: Dear it spent cover)

15-3

---

## Page 3

14-000n

ATT A

ATTACHUENT TO DIRA} 25700

BERNARDINI, Guerrino, son of the late Guig! and of the late Ada ORACHEYN,

born in Muggta on 8 July 1914, married, Italian citizen, mechanic, residing

in Trieste at No, 49 via Luigi Pirandello.

Subject resides at the above address, in modest economic circum-

stances with his wife Olga GORUP and a son (minor) named Armando, from hie

salary as a regulator - mechanic for the Sidemar firm of Trieste which was

terminated 8 August 1960. From this date until the present he is unemployed

since he left on his own accord having expressed an intention to emigrate to

some foreign country (unidentified)

The archives of the Questura of Trieste indicate that Subject has

i criminal record for crimes committed against patrimony and specifically

aggravated theft perpre. aled many times against dwellings and shops through

the vertoration of large holes or entry from the floor of the dwelling or shop

to be burglarized.

It does not appear that Subject is actively interested in politics,

however he is in sympathy with leftist parties. When he was detained as the

. Coronto prison Subject was noted for his nationalistic sentiments and on a

number of occasions had several scuffles or arguments with prisoners of

anti-nationalistic fetlings.

Subject is in possession of an Italian passport No. 7860915 vilid

= for foreign travel until 21 July 1961.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Paleste 11 26 attire 1069

Via Iui?1 Pirardollo no 49.

Il sopraseritto BaRrARMINI Piercino vivA ell'Indiriaro

au indirato, in modesto contieióni scono iche unitamoren alla me

5lte coaup Olea ed al figlio amanda rinome, col ricarato dalla

sua-stività al ar ju tatara rec arico cho sino 21199.9. 1060 ha

rimagtata nepese

la ditta SInaia di Falceta, fa taie data Infat

te siccoma negaritanente intonatonato ds trasferirad 1119getem

ragil attl di averemefirio al rileva che 19 modesimo

arceriulicoto pe dailtis onnero 1l ratel do e crecificatarente

anche morfonte la moto tornies dol Mer nel muro a dal settesurlo,

Mar cons's il tritinored =+ 193-9-10

inolitica

Tatica ter il ratiel di Giretto Gil 14la 19 9229199717 6ito

19f.

---

## Page 5

zz

ATTACHWENT TO COIRA - 25700

SABATTI, Giovanni, son of the late Clemente and of the lace Glovanna PROVEDAN,

born in Bule d'Isiria on 26 December 1905, married, Hallan citizen, shop-keeper,

and residing at No. 5 via Zovenzond, Trieste,

The above has resided in Trieste since 1930 coming to Trieste from

his place of birth,

located in Trieste at No. 4 via dell'Orologio.

Subject is married to Adele bipry, daughter of the later Francescs,

aged 45, housewife, who resides a. No. 9 Sallia Contovello, with whom he has had

d'daughter named Luciana, aged 22, single, who lives wich mother. Subject has

been legally separated from his wife since 1958.

The archives of the Questura of Trieste indicate that Subject has a

record for aggravated theft, attemited theit, drunk and disorderly, adultery,

assault, and ags.ult upon a volice olficer.

Subject specializes in safe-cracking which he has developed through

the use of salt-cracking equi ment including the acetylene torch and on occasion

has effecled entry on his own through burglary (technique: large holes through walls).

At this time it does noi a year that Subjcet frequents underworld

characters or ambient. Subject has been classified as amoral and a professional

criminal who has not rehabilitated.

Subject does not apital tu take an acuve interest in pohtics and as

of the present he is in sympathy with she leftist parties.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

irl?it-

11,? regpe tus tin

rstrla 1? 91.99.99-.

aicondo sitaios e in lie Isgareori noi.

iTT 800--99,03+te

-rarant onto ia?

Cr GinoarlaTielere In 2ureta Clita,

•eeo Moanlmiraia 1el ee sil'lrairiano en Irdt-

eata con

-Tal 916999

"ris tr Zarolatrgdl 3ur1-39,0392-

"sura, in glernato eopatcioni cono goho, en Firavato ?olla eua attl

013

•ie ral'tprola-ji noio

= carliote oon tolo ?2o Aie'a Ea Pancesco d8 a1rl 45,

Raridente in Ca lta Conereal'l MilaCon le Munle ha Sna

796-69

Ptn a ade ial Der9.

do c olno CaE boCao at qn? tdo TE Bdjus

- feee Gaü oee l Gelddddeld 1e dedÜ àl".

e san flate doemune tentade qroddoliä:

oietanmagagdl@ris, lerin.il

•epall e atrengo cile P pel Ait'?9-

Mtraêlmla G? ?al. ?a?

so lcezoni ranonaall ron mjault. a e

1an eul f danuneiato

H99191901 13119

7':

-:=trrin.,

=1.9

lfeadg runid de rigrtin fisi

nag-tne"o s0"9-n4o&11 (or9o +1 3953699141,

1,917

mto eaenine dad lurdgi Mal agaso

=aragaioa adeo dd agirro

•alant toatteel tetnri! di .

Puneli non anttl rae l ltn drrwetth dlmenne ed Bmlferti

pirilo, Mar

m=: tl ar de incunrdo pocori

-iate"it.tr.

x'sr

iaairetto

anete ce ill cis aui irtarcrmen aitlparae to d9 107114-

ejuratinga :po i rintiii éi

"imintma?

---

## Page 7

224

ATTACHMENT TOLOIRA} 25700

CUCÇAGNA, Francesco, son of the late Francesco and of the late Antonia

VOUCK, born in Trieste on 12 December 1903; married, Italian citizen,

Ironworker, residing in Trieste at No. 9 via it. Matteuts.

Subject resides at the above address with one BERTONI, Inu

(translator's note: obviously mistress) and has been separated from his

wife for many years. Wife is Leopoldina BIZIAN, daughter of the late Michele,

aged 57, who resides in Trieste at No. 31 via Madonnina. Despite the fact that

Subject is separated from his wife he maintains for her support and has also

provided for the edu-ation of his three children who are now adults and inde-

Subject lives in discreet economic circumstances since he is the

owner of a locksmith shog-keys located at No. 19 Corso Italia.

Subject possesses good national sentiments, a political agnostic,

and enjoys a good reputation and is regarded as a serious and correct individual.

Subject has a record for crimes against parimony, assault and resisting

a public official, and drunkness. Subject obtained rehabilitation by the District

Al.orney of Trieste (Procura della Repubblica) with a decree No. 109/49 dated

11 June 19-49.

In fact, since 29 September 1939, the date he was relased from

prison, Subject has not been involved in any crime.

Subjeci is in jossession of a Lastia Passare for Zone B (Yugoslavia)

which is valid until 11 September 1961.

---

## Page 8

Pral este 11,7..10.4060

ACCiOVA Francoçco Mi Francesco e fil intonia Fruck rato a trioste

1l 13.92.9003,eonirmte,citiailne itilianogfrai.grmoccandec,rest

canto a ciosgo in Via Miattectti n.?.

Il sonraseritto Creare pareecon, convive ali indiriaco

guccitato cor una carta REPPOrT, ascondo da vari enri, gorerato 31

• fatto 2alla

10-=1a moglie RISIN Corradina fu Ilehole,il enni

"archinar 31 Cii malgrado lo stesso ba

aporrainto relaimento alimentontmore ad all"jatmainno dol sani

tre piall amel adulti e indiperdenti.

Tensa in disante condizini conomiche asconda titolare

dallentricira roccantra

me me la de ciavlete ¿e questo Perga Tra lo no 19.

"i hool ranti enti partonali, ro'itiraronte amasico,rel-

i rive cele burry apostagione ad á sota pon 50

o+9031093290

ni=-retinagosto con ialitti contre il latrionio, contrab

tmds.c.tes.90089n9.4

#: 99150812

no 109 13 19 2992 99 ciurre 1949 della 100e-

#+0819989007

a coruttilongle deteruto le riabilitarione, Infati?,

utem-1a9t0 2 ada19i

21939 gate in cui fu scarcerato

re tipo con ro riedite mit coragoi

=laur..

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CONNNE OL TRIESTE

CARTA D'IDENTITA:

VERBALE

nao is 2: 12:903 -

Trieste

italiana

no crecha

- RosSdenze a TRIESTE

Prosseino - meecanico

•~ CONHOTATI • CONTRASSEGNI SALIENTI

Statura: alla

capelas Metr

achei a sige

Bas01 pareriores lIC. quancia

1114224

FIRMA DE.

Genea yor

Data 24 GJU. 1958

24 GIU 1358

63AFR 466 195,955

..... 0.0 01 DOesozgooGadaDe e no chane caraca parma, cenaro de casa .u...

....

-..............

• r. wan..

1...

-e.

natacaca

---

## Page 10

TR.ES #

CALTA D'IDENTITA•

C 801190

taro 11

+908079)118

italiara

#a_ Surola 508

1.006.392

ELATA IDENT:

VERBALE

....

Muffia

• 10 LESTE

len (0591050-01

• CONHOTATI • CONTRASSEGAI SALIENTI

olte

Dechl:

seant particolar: ......

nata: 17 LUG. 1959

1/ LUG 1959 574551/16.0.54

.....................

delitos e se catre a to

---

## Page 11

COMUNE DI TRIESTE

C 129.381.065

CARTA D'IDENTITA

Fabolle

Name poiscina:

siato il 26. 12.1905

Stato cirile fomigaie

Ma rie di Tecni

Cinodinano italiana

Raideass TRIESTE

Connotati a contrassegni satienti

Sentina allet

Corporatana ..... nod:

Copalli:

......e.

Occhi: .....

Segni perticolari:

sino

PIRMA DEL TIPOLARR

filatte polian i

- 2 NOV 1356

PEE ANCARICO DEL SINDÃCO

Data

MOTIVAZIONE

= 2 NOY 1956

SMYM

,ilil 18:11115:

---

## Page 12

АП. С

CUCCAGNA Francesco fu Prancesco, nat0 a arieste ii a/:2/1203, 1vt 9b1-

tante in via

Golatteotti 9-

Ha tre figli, è separato dalla moglfe •

convive con altra donna

- Pino al 1936 ha riportato varle condanne.

per furte.;

Successivamente, non ho più dato luogo a rilievi e nel 1949 ba otter

to la riabilitazione®

5ª titolaro di una officina meccanica per aerrature di aicurezza e vi-

ve In buone condiziom economiche

E' 1n posgeseo di lasciapassare

per la Jugoslavia®

2°) - BEPNARDINI Guerrino fu Iuigi, nato a :UB81a 1'8/7/1914, rialede dall'a

gosto 1959 1n Svizzera, presso la figlia LEDA Bernardini in SCRIGNARI.

In epoca renota riportò 2 condanne per furto con acea30.

Nel 1957 fu arrestato per tentato furto accravato e successivamente po

sto in libertà provvisoria.

Attualmente a Irleste vivono la di lui noglie e un 11g110, in procinto

anch'egli di trasferirai definitivamente in Svizzera.

3ª) SABAZZI (e non Sabatti) Giovanni di Clemente, pato a Bulo d'Iatria 1.

6/ 12/1905, 1iN abitante in Váa Rovanzoni 6-TRIEITI

In epoca remota riportò 2 conianne per furto con scasso, l'ultima nel

1946 e fu anche sottoposto a libertà vigilata.

Successivamente al 1946 non ha più dato luogo a rilievi.

Separato dalla coglie, dalla quale ha avato un figlio, convive con 31-

tra donna•

E' In poygesso di passaporto per l'estero.

Buone condizioni econoriche

- Attività lavorativa dubbia®

E® propriotario di una Flat 1100 con la quale si reca saltuariamente

in Jugoslavia a prolovare lunghi che vendo pol a Irieste. -

---

## Page 13

S

E

C

R

E T

•SEPARATE COVER ATTACHNENT TO COIRA - 25700

Identity - Romeo RAPPO, Inspector, Venezia-Giulia Police

DATE

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

OPS

ROOM NO

BUILDING

2509

REMARKS•

Du 12 e ole e 32901

to your branch - now we have

received the s/c/attachment and

would appreciate it if you would

attach it to the dispatch . . . . •

(OPS

03

Thanks,

CB/mai

FROM:

ROOM NO.

114t 59: 241

BUILDING

¡EXTENSION

#GRO +043-0-937843

3/000"

---

