# 104-10192-10045

## Page 1

104-10192-10045

•88: 101

ROUTING

nicani (B

FROM

71

ACTION:

INFO

' 8

iw.

COPY ISSULO TO WySA, M, 5100 iT 1095 15 FED OU)

PCI, D/DC1, DDP, ADDP, SOO 4, DO/H, CA ?, CAVPEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4,

CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/PS, FI, F1/D.

51/INT 6, RI/AN, WHUSA 12,

WH 8, VR,. FILE, CS/RF.

R

• R

SECRET 161926Z

PRIORITY DIR INIC PRICRITY LANT

FC5 16 28252 65 1N 51818

BARR CITE WAVE S330

5P

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: ANCLATTER-I FREE: FRANX FIPOINT.

RIC:

PS Bưi

ABSTRACT Z

INDEX

FILED lUDIOZ

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLEE DISSE::

COUNTRY: CUSA

SUSU: PLANNED. AIR STRIKE ACAINST HAS SY THE HIRR CA: 16 FEERUARY

1965

10

FEBRUARY 1955

PADA, LINITEO STATES, MAN (1Ú FESRURY 1905)

AFG 0716

MICROFILMED

MAR 1

1965

DOC. MICRO, SEA.

Index

SOURCL:

A ALÁMA BUSINESSILIN WHO WAS A MESICENT GE ENDOLE FOR

SLVERAL YEARS. THE SCURCE HAS CONTICIS BINO RECCINIEL MIM AS A

iW COMMENT.

SO PETER TONE CENTER SE

FOR ELFETRICAL TRANEMISSIPIAL

B201-25162

121

WH/REG

RELEASING Neil in Saints

CHARLES M. BOUNDS

ADVISED SIDO OF TDCS

NO AT 1730 LOCAL.

19-300-20

T05 15-375/00550-55

Eter la

X : PRIORITY

BASED ON

UFG 6710

NO PROJECT

(A-ICLATTER/1)

Y

DATE DiSTRIBUTED.

16 FEBRUNRY 1965

22232

S

ECRET

•SON

AUTOMATI:

• 90 139.93

1S 1389

UOTICOIPBY

FORBALD

185)

" RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

taranted

RECEIVEG

R:0/ MIS

FEe 23 1I 25 AN °SS

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

- ROUTING

4

mOM

ACTION

INFO

IN 81818

¡PAGE 2

CHANNEL TO US INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATICH WAS OSTAINCO FROM

FRANK FIORINI•

I COMMENT. •

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

SECRET

TOCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

LIAISON .

HECHROEBEEN 8 68498

AL TOMATI

OICLASBENATON

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

PRIORITY

Copy No..

---

## Page 3

NO 08.08

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLEN DISCEN

• PRIORITY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.

TOCS D8-315/00550-65

DISTR 16 FEBRUARY 1965

16 FEBRUARY 1965

• SUBECT

PLANASO AIR STRIKE AGAIAST MASANA ON 16 FEBRUARY 1965:

SY THE MIRR

PLACE&

DATE ACQ: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FEBRUARY 1965)

SOURCE

REP

IN

81818

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 6710

APPRAISAL A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.

SOUPCE MAS CONTACTS ANO RECOGNIZE MIM IS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM ERASE FIORINI.

1.

ABOUT 1:50 AM CN 16 FEBRUARY 1905, FRANK FICRINI SAID

THAT THE NOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACICN REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR. INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVCLUTICNARY RECOVERT WAS

PLANNING ANOTHER

STRIKE OVER CUSA ON 16 FESRUARY. SILU CONSON'S

AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO ARRINGES THE SUPPORT ASPECIS FOR, SUCH STRUCES

AGAINST CUSA, TOLD FIORINA TUST HE AND MIKE RAFFERTY MÃO HAD A

HEATED ARGUMENT WÍTH ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, MIRR LEACER, 'AT ASOUT

11:45 PM ON 15/ FEBRUARY BEÇAUSE BOSCH WANTED HIS FILOT TO 50M3

THE CITY OF HABANA. JOHNSON AND RAFFERTY TRIED •TO ADVISE SOSCH

taformaline alecuor Rse Malloral Defene re the Toiled Starea wittin the menaing of the Kaptonage. Lewe. Tite

I#, US.C. Soch, 193 and 191, the unarmusion in rerelation of which in any manner te an unusbared porn is probibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL engaged in peon duricient

• Чуде польві

lifers in Calise:

CONTROLED DIESEN

ADICE LUCIA/NICE COAST GUSO BORDER PATROL FET LENS TREASIRY CUSTONO

EXO

IMMEDIATE TO:

STATE (RCI)

DIA/CIIC

---

## Page 4

COMPOLLO DISTR

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-315/

00550-65

AGAINST SUCH-AN OPERATICN BUT BOSCH REFUSED TO BE DISSUADED AND

INSTRUCTO HIS PILOT TO MAKE THE MISSION. THE PILOT, AN UNIDENTI-

FIED AMERICAN WHO MADE THE PREVIOUS TWO RAIDS, AGREED TO MAKE THE

MISSION FOR A LARGE SUM OF MONEY. HE WAS TO BE ACCONPANIEO SY

AN UNIDENTIFIED CUBAN PILOT.

2. FIORINI SAID THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF BOMBING. SOME

ANTI-AIRCRAFT UNITS NEAR CERTAIN UNIDENTIFIED TANKS BUT BOSCH

ALLEGEDLY INSTRUCTED THE PILOT TO FORGET ABOUT THEM AND HIT ANY

THING HE COULD.

3. FIORINI SAID THAT BOSCH HAS A 3-25 HIDDEN. IN THE NORTHERN

PART OF FLORIDA NEAR AN UNIDENTIFIED SUGAR MILL.. THE AIRCRAFT

WAS PURCHASED IN- TEXAS AND IS IN GOOD CONDITICN•

4. (FIELD COMMENT: THE MIRR ANNOUNCED ON 13 FESRUARY THAT. ONE

OF ITS TWIN-ENGINE PLANES BOMBED AND STRAFED THE BAHIA HONOS

SUGAR CENTRAL ON CUSA'S NORTH COAST OF PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE IN

THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF 13 FEBRUARY.. ON 16 FESRUARY THE MIRR

ANNOUNCED THAT THE B-26 WAS OVER CUBA FOR ZI MINUTES ON THE RAID

AND DID NOT DRAW ANY GROUND FIRE. NAPALM BOMSS OF" IRES POUNDS EACH,

A 20B-POUND HIGH EXPLOSIVE BOMB AND PHOSPHOROUS INCENDIARY CEVICES

WERE ALLEGEDLY DROPPED. THERE HAS BEEN NO ANNCUNCEMENT FROM CUBA

INDICATING THAT SUCH A RAID TOOK PLACE. HOWEVER, MASANA RADIO:

DID NOT ANNOUNCE CONFIRMATION OF THE MIRR'S 17. JANUARY STRIKE

AGAINST THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL UNTIL TWO DAYS LATER. ›

5• FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANTA CINGSO, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

CONFIDENTIAL

пРо 200 18

IN

81818

PAGE 2

CONTROLIED DISSEI

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONTE OLLID ONSET

APO 1-00 (123

IN 81818

TDCSDB-

315/00550-65

PAOB

3

CONFIDENTIAL

OF STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, IONS, FEI, AND CUSTOMS.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLED DISSO

---

