# 104-10216-10159

## Page 1

104-10216-10159

• UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ERNAL

sal ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONI ENTIAL

SO SECRET

EXTENSIONS

NO

DATE

C/TSD/EB

a (Ollem designation, room member.

DATE

RECEVED

PORNARDED

C/WH/SA/MOB/PM

GH4408 Hdgrs.

3.

WUNISA/ECO

роз

W

Cottri

5.

24 June 1964

to whom.

Bashnell 1.3x

phantow scopes de

Inade in (apdn-

w/w distributei

ais have Englich nacken,

27O2: 22031

in Nicho

7.

8.

ser like a focke jihe

thas.

10.

11.

12.

13.

15.

610 MARCUS SI SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

C UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

=

her it!

•

SEGRET

24 June 1964

MENORANDUM FOR: C/WH/SA/MOB/PH

SUBJECT

: Improved Sight for 7.62 Belgium (PAL) Rifle

REFERENCE

: a) Memo for the Red. dated 25 May 64,

Subject:

"FAL Silencer/Sights", fron

C/WH/SA/MOB/PM

18 provided! accordance with reference a) the following material

1) Three copies of instructions for installing the

Three open rear sight hoods for the subject rifle.

sight and zeroing the rifle.

c) Three tool kits containing an adjustment screw

driver and two files.

d) 100 rounds of improved underloaded ammunition with

cream of wheat filler.

(Boxes marked with red strip.

These should be substituted for the rounds already

delivered).

2. It must be understood that the limited time available

would not permit more that cursory acceptance testing and the

superiority of this sight over the standard unit has not been

definitely established.

3. The scope and mount requested in reference a) prove

to be an unfeasible development in the time available.

could not be devised which was interchangeable with any FAI

without extensive modification to the weapon.

For additional information regarding this matter con-

tact

on extension 3319

Chief

TSD/Engineering Branch

Attachments:

Distribution:

I - Addressee

] - TSD/SDB

1

- C/TSD

1 - EB-81J

As Stated

SECHET

---

## Page 3

MeRAM on

SNAP-ON SIGHT FOOD FOR

THE 7.62 BELGIUM (FAL) RIFLE

The sight hood snaps over the existing rear sight on

the 7.62 Belgium (FAL) rifle.

It is designed to raise the rear

sight to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the under-

loaded ammunition and is an open sight for increased night sighting

capability.

The sight hood is oriented with the three screws facing

the muzzle end of the rifle (See attached drawings).

down on the hood until the ball detent snaps into the peep hole

The slot for the existing rear sight is made tight

the hood will fit firmly in place.

If it fails to fit,

file the existing rear sight as necessary.

If the sight fits

the slot but is difficult to snap on and off, or is too loose,

adjust the ball detent by turning the center

set screw on the

sight hood.

The weapon must be zeroed on a known distance firing

range to determine the sight settings and proper sight picture

for standard and undorloaded ammunition when using the hood.

The only adjustments possible are those already on the rifle.

That is, elevation control using the graduated ramp and windage

control by adjustment of the two locking screws at the base of

the existing rear sight dovetail.)

NOTE:

It is very important to hold the rifle the same way each

time so that the relation of the eye to the rear sight

remains constant.

The user must determine his own zero

for each rifle and hood combination and maximur effective

range for each ammunition type.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

FRONT VIEW

27-0 den++ 440401914010291 torn

---

## Page 5

14-00000

0*035

REAR VIEW

---

