# 104-10096-10087

## Page 1

104-10096-10087

UNSLASSIFIED

MERNAL

ONLY

CONFYPENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

SUHORIZON-1 Report Mentioning Cuban Minsiter-Counsellor

Statement on the Assassination of President

Kennedy

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

SECRET

C/ LAD

TO: (Offeer designation, room number, and

building)

1431

OFFICER

NIVAL

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

INOX

11 NOV 1977

so whom.

to whom. Draw a line ocross column for each, commanl.)

Draw a line across column after each

2.

Du-4 Arker

sCx-z relay

Mr- Waller

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

18.

12.

Mr. Leader

Ficle

13.

1.

15.

FORM

610 USE PREVIOU

EDITIONS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

HEA KNI

DD/017-100!

11/60/207.7

11 NOV, 1977

ME:MORANDUM FOR:

SA/ADOO

77-7379

FROM:

Raymond A. Warren

Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT:

SLHORIZON-1 Report Mentioning Cuban

Minister-Counsellor Statement on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

REFERENCE:

1A/C0/235-77 Dated 30 September 1977

1. The referent memorandum reported information from

a ZRWAHOO intelligence report of a statement made by the

Minister-Counsellor (MC) of the Cuban Embassy

in Kingston,

Jamaica, on 24 September 1977, that "Cuban exiles such as

DIAZ Lan (Enu) (sic) and others had been involved in the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy."

We believe

that this could refer either to Pedro DIAZ Lanz, or his

brother Marcos DIAZ Lanz, formerly Chief and Deputy Chief,

respectively,

of the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force.

Both

entered the U.S. from Cuba as exiles in mid-1959.

Since

that time the

DIAZ Lanz brothers reportedly have

been

closely associated with, and involved in numerous activities

with, Frank STURGIS (aka FIORINI) of Watergate fame.

The

Agency

assisted in the evacuation of Marcos, and Pedro

entered the U.S. on his own

Although both were debriefed

by the Agency, there is no indication that they were ever

considered Agency assets.

2.

Kingston

Station queried source for further infor-

mation

as promised in paragraph

1 of the reference.

source said that the MC referred to the Kennedy assassina-

tion during a pep talk to party members to maintain good

security.

furtner.

that the MC said that "recent infor-

nation had arrived" implicating DIAZ Lan (fnu) (sic),

former air force officer, in the Kennedy assassination

but did not mention any other Cuban exiles by name or give

any further details.

Although the MC did not identify

the

source of his information,

the impression that the information might have been included

in a cable from the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

source is unable to elicit further information

from the MC

without jeopardizing his security.

signod

Raymond A. Warren

Raymond A. Warren

CC :

IG Staff

WARNING MOTICI

19P DE1

---

