# 104-10172-10289

## Page 1

104-10172-10289

2z

• DISPATCH

1904

Chlat of dentlon

Protestlon

Nona, for Information only.

JOK

11 Lacesbo: 1959

irai

-..:1 99999

→ 14.692.91.

22

lar ly a anuel to the Inforegaion elven in the polmasce.

Can an on en unrat

mutter.

le mol bla holi en bour later, and ho told as the fallowing

slary.

Ore gorly le DO11 led rajero so VALIRa inal a mater asent oz

hed does arrested la the iovlot belon dear Dartre, but an the sovlar

alde of the border.

GUIDD had said lint the agont had been recruited

In sulteerland and dispatabad toross the border on 18 May of thia year.

The oat had come to Palainti on 11 Key and hed bem not by a man

daveriand an batinon 35 m 58 yoars old, about 100 em. tall, the son

amoked a pipe, apore poor farlish end peasable Pinniaà.

This men had

delven the agent to the flunlan bordor in a Dodge automobile, Dartes

the l1censo pluto 19-158, an the 1064 or May.

to might be lovolved.

to cail Roodive to tlp Rontino off In case 1t aigbt be necessery to get

ne triver of the car out of ta country bofore tha turastleation aloas

Lin around him. Roodin thered nis for hia tip and said he rould

abosk Into the natter to fled on ir there una ony subetanco to it.

Hoodino prond ood to call VALI/E, by 103) houra that afterpoon.

Mes i care one a so chan a ten a for a stero ora

find out if he hed oven loud his ear for say durt, "ilja of vas sonabo

tavalved indirectly. The anner with his tas aleo Destite, not le nou

appeara Ilkely Chat this stole story is a provocation, concostad by tha

Soviets nod not afoot through CoitS lo surra as a comtar balana lo

recent revelatione of soviet esplosago in Finland.

(see the Esdroey's

Joint banta for 11 Deosaber 1959.) It 1s latereatlne that the Carmuntat

newsager konuen Dullest carrist en editorial ou tha 1011 of pacembo.

acewalae the securlty follee or not Inastlenting, orses of vostars

caplonage. Tha editorial sakes pointed reference to a trip mede ly the

ensiotent Americon naval attache lest sumor, which vas veilers us la tha

Cornet press and reported at the tiao to ashington Ma Debasey obamale.

1 oozy of sho IRRaan Dutizat editorial la attached.

Martin f. Hoodine

Toulocuna:

clip;ing. l ey

DietrIbertions

3 = 4F v/encl

excl

2

RETURN TO CIA

• Do Na: Reproduc

112/BR

---

