# 104-10169-10089

## Page 1

104-10169-10089

Return de Firminach

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

POUTING

* HES TO PIE NO-

SECRET

FROM UNWAVE

UST TO ARANCH D

ACTIONs

1W

EXTRiO COPXIADVANCE COPY TUSED TO CS/DO AT 2285 P)

INO

DCI,

D/DCl,

VI.

EVDIR, DOP,

CS/RF,

FILE.

ADDP,

CA/PEG,

CA/PROP.

N/D •

Cla CI/PS,

F1/5PG, hH 8, WH6 32.

SECRET 280052

28 JAN BE 3802 66 IN 4°

DIR INFO PACT LANT BARR CITE-WAVE 8798

wH/cles,

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA. NO PROJECT. AMBLINK-I FROM AMRAZZ-I SHO RECEIVED INFO

FROM ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN ON 13 AND 2E JANUARY.... FIELD COMMENT

BASED ON UFG 7864. RID NO INDEX. FILED 288825Z

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

•CUBA

SUSU: COORDINATION OF SENE, MIRR AND RECE ON PLANS TO STAGE AN

ATTACK ON CUBA IN EARLY FEBRUARY

D01: 13 AND 285 JANUARY 1966

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (18 AND 27 JANUARY 1966)

UFG 7929

IW COMMENT.

-WHIREG

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

28 JANUARY 1966

04137

TOSS D8-315/00316-66

XI ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON:

UFG 7920

NP (AMRAZZ/1)

LIAISONI.

*

ENGLUORD FROM TONATI

03

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

=i: 19:001166.

11. de

flie it 49

10109

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduo

2/90

---

## Page 2

CLASSIPE TO PUI NO -

& RED TO FIL DO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• SECRET

LOVING

ACTON

INFO

I81 RID COPY

FILL, ADOP, CAR. CATEG. CAPROP QVOPS ONCE A NO. MINI

PAGE 2

IN 43868

SOURCES A CUBAN EMIGRE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACIS IN THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MEP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE

PEOPLE). HE MAS BEEN AN ACCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION

ANO ON GENERAL EMIGRE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

10:31

W COMMENTA

TDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

I PRIORITY

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

LAISON:

GabBENEATH

ERELUDED FROM AUTOMATI

SECRET

BOWWBRADINE ANG

DSOLANSIPIGAPION

BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

i " Copy No.

03

---

## Page 3

SECRET

no then Facid An

SECRET

CENTE

AL INTELLIDENCI AGENCY.

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE CE

19 AN: 20 JAALARY 1966

TDCS D8-315/00316-66

DESTR. 21 MENRY 1966

SULECT

@ COORDINATION OF SAFE, MIRA AND RECE ON PLANS TO STAGE AN

ATTACK ON CUBA IN EARLY FEBRUARY

DATE ACO VANTED STATES, MIAMI 618 AND 29 JALARY 1966)

# 43068

...sound...

PILD REPORT NO. UPG 1920

TAND

APPRAISAL

A CUBAN EMIGRE' WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUTIONARIO

DEL PUEBLO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE), ME MiS BEEN AN

AGCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION AND ON GENERAL. EMIGRE POLITICAL

DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

- 1: ON ZE JANUARY 1966 AN OFFICER OF THE SEGUNDO FRENTE

NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SINE,. SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY),

SAID THAT ARMANDO FLEITES DIAZ, MILITARY COORDINATOR OF THE SENE,

HAD BEEN MEETING WITH UNNAMED REPRESENTATIVES OF THE MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONACA (MIRR, INSURREC-

TIONAL MOVEMENT. FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) AND REPRESENTACION

CUBANA EN. EL EXILIO (RECE, CUEAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE) TO PLAN AN

ATTACK ON CUBA WHICH WILL PROBABLY TAKE PLACE IN EARLY FEBRUARY.

12. IN MID-JANUARY THE SFNE WAS DISCUSSING TWO AILTERNATIVE

ACTION PLANS AGAINST CUBA; AN ATTACK ON AN UNSPECIFIED TARGET ON

any manner to an unauthorized person

prohibited by law.

SECRET

IN FOREIA DISCM/CONTROLED DISSEN

deous

STAYIR DIA ARMYJACH: NAVY... AM IS SECON

NSA

AID USIA OC ONI OC ON 00 :,

CANNES ERLINES CUSTOMS BORDER PATROL

MOAST GUARD

EXO

L

---

## Page 4

I FION ASSOL CONTENS ABSEN

SECRET

i 83860 1

100900+515/00316-SA.

M., 10, 5

THE CONST, MND CORD AN IN I HE DUGHT AI MMI SINE ME!

FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE SENE WAS CRITICAL, AND IT WAS MOPED

THAT THE PUBLICITY SHICH WOULO RESULT FROM A SUCCESSFUL OPERATION

MOULO STIMULATE CONTRIBUTIONS.

3. (FIELO COMMENT. A RECENT REPORT FROM THE SAME SOURCE

REPORTED THAT FLEITES PLANNED TO TAKE ACTION AGAINST CUBA IN EARLY

FEBRUARY, T0C508-315-90046-66 ' FROM AN INDEPENDENT SOURCE,

REPORTED THAT THE MURR PLANNED TO STAGE A RAID ON THE NORTH COAST

OF MATANZAS PROVINCE ON 6: JANUARY,.WITH. MONBERS.OF. THE-3I-NOVDMBER

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRIN) AND REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC ALLIANCE

(ARD) PARTICIPATING. THE RAID WAS POSTPONED WHEN THE ARD MEMBER

REFUSEO TO BECOME INVOLVED WITH THE MRIN MEMBER.)

H.. FIELD DISSEME CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, IGNSA CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, USCG.

: (%::

20/03

wait punt lemons curios airri

109r5

tree on can eat

#10

OTE DI

Keyneckl

SECRET

GROV

MORELUGECEND OF MESSAGE

4002,75

NO FUREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISCEN

---

