# 104-10055-10120

## Page 1

104-10055-10120

0000244

Inside Washington

2004 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

cials who actively oppose

on has yet to be

used

dismissal of such persons

1lquld or compressed

for security

And PAUL SCOTT

•Soviet

Tiet pullers.

reasons

re.

against

high West-

"Soviet Strategic

ern oficial, hundreds of

from public office, at oth.

form.: The

Director

times

even having

within seconds

and

that

CIA

an:.

McConc

made

no

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

Action,"

Lhe

KGB agents

covertly op.

them 'eliminated' phys!

autopsy would not reveal

mention of this explosive

- The

Central Intelli

suppressed

CIA

docu-

erating outside of Russia

cally.

Its

цве.

Non-trace a ble

document

in

secret

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the

shock-

have been

supplied with

"Such activities

are

poisons have been reports

testimony

vital

intelligence

before

the

infor-

ing details of how agepts

this

pocketa.

gun,

known to be undertaken

mation from

the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting

against other types of

fe which sever take efs

until several

hours

Warren

Commission.

While McCone furnish-

Commission during its in-

police,

are trained to

from Moscow

se it,

persons in the West, not-

after being administered,

vestigation

of

the

assas-

away

with Western lead-

The

Murder

excapons

ably

defectors from

the

thus allowing an assassin

ed the commission

with

sination

of

President

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGH

and from

the CIA's secret surveil-

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

the

U.S.S.R.

other

to be far from the scene

and to

make

suppressed

gence

countries of

the

Soviet

when his victim

dies.

lance

reports

on

Lee

Despite the commis-

their deaths appear due

estimate,

whil

s locked

bloc.

"A knowledge able

Harvey

Oswald's

eight

sion's written request for

to

natural

causes.

in a

security pret

"One recently reported

source

has

described

days in Mexico

City

be

all documents that might

One of the KGB's new..

the tightly-gu cri

CIA,.

assassination technique is

operated fore the assassination.

in-

shed light

on the assas-

ly devised

cluding

details

sination,

CIA

authorities

failed to turn over a na-

wapons - is "a: pnumati.

are

as follow wi

to electrocute an individ-

**7t

has

beer caported

poison

ice

ual

by

luring

him

which

leaves

wound

wald's

contact with the

cally operated polson ice,,that the

KG!

ravors

use a telephone, connect-

or other evidence of the

head

KGB

the

tional

intelligence

esti-

'atomizer?. which ! leaves*"

reiloverth

agent in

to

ed to a high-voltage wire,

evl.

cause of death."

Soviet

embassy

there,

mate

warning

that it is no wound or, other

Soviet intere:

during

a thunderstorm.

Congressional

investi-

the

CIA

chief

gave

no

Kremlin policy to remove

dence

of the cause

of

West

"Another

involves

the

who

from public office by

as-

death.".

m e-

use

of

pistol

which

That she name

have

asked

hint of the Kremlin's as

That

of their:

sassination policy.

sassination

Western offi-

While this deadly

i the.

projects a poison gas in

committee

be

withheld

(CONTINUED ON 8-13)

StOP 3G

Documents

OTHER. U.S.

sence experts,

intell

very du.

bious of

Russia's co-or.

istence

line, stress that

the Warren

• Commig-

shave

sion's finding erent

been

might

df:

this

CIA: estimate

and

"other

documents

BUD

pressed by the State De

partment had been aval

able for study.

They

but that

the stays t par meat

suppressed evidonce link

ing Oswald. with one of

its

employes, who

ag.

cording to security, files,

"presented

strong.

DrO.

shown:

officials to

McOormack

In line to succo

dent Johnson

While

warnod

mack:

Spea

Communist:

the list of

cials feared by. the Krem-

lin.

no

CIA

authorit

has shown the No. 2 man

in

government

the

CIA

report

listing. these

196-

cret

Sovitt assassination

methods.

Instead, Mc Co rach

icarned about the repoit

only

recently

from con-

gressional

probers

who:

next

file

p.8593

-Hai

Who tested

to there

---

