# 104-10186-10264

## Page 1

104-10186-10264

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproge

INFORMATION REPORT RINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tun matertai erataina laformata allertina the Mazina Defrana ol the l'alled Hiato stiAta lo menalos of the Hapiano Laus Ille

•1N CAC. EMA TAI AN TDL IDO UrAninIa ot perinea di thtch in any manner lo al unessbortaro perton la pronibile de tem.

SECRET

NO FCREIGI DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUJECT ({nu) RELOVA

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00704-64

DATE DISTR

1 September 1964

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

5

DATE OF 196€

INFa.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQAUgUS: 1964

FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAI DI CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cubar IS officer who servcd

with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one di a series containing personalits

nformation provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency.

t is requested that the addressres take no action on any o

he individuals montioned in the personulity reports withou

first checking with this Agercy.

(Inu) RELOVA, pseudonym "Wilberto," 1s an officer of the

Direccion General de lateligencia (General Dirictorate of

Intolligonce - DGI) 1: Cub..

He resides at Calle 15 number

2119, Reparto Juaa Manuel Marquez, Palya de Santa Fe, Marlano,

Haband.

, 2,3,4,5,6

Headquarters Comments

1.

An airline passenger manifest revealed that one Osvaldo

RELOVA Penichet, provably identical with the above Subject.

left Mexico for Haband on 8 July 1963 and was the holder

of Cuban passport nunder D/63/415.

2 .

in a report dated 16 October 1963,

stated that Osvaldo RELOVA, the Farst Secretary of the

Cuban Embassy in Canada, arrived in Kingston on 14 October, 1963.

He was in Kingston for one week add lived at the Cuban

Consulate office.

RSLOVA was reportedly making an inspection

RELOVA Jas born on 13 August 1930, in Habana. HaS

hone address was given as 15H 2119 Santa

Fe, Habana.

carried Cuban passport number D/63/415, Issued in Mabana

on 17 June 1963.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

N$4

RED

ARSAY

CINCLAST

пт.t

OCI

1FBI 2

CINCSO & TASS

INEORM.

ANEO

EPORA

TIONE REPORT-

HICILIA

NO PROJECT (ASMUO/1

_CSCI-316/0070-1-6-4

5

4/8R

111. Sa CL

i-€.

2.

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

3. In a report dated 19 October 1903, source uncond, it was atated.

that one Oiraldo RELOVA Pondched was appointed adminiserator of

del Curro, s.A."

firm, located on Calrada dil Cirro

Avenue, Habana.

1.

A falily reliable source, in a report dated 23 October 1963.

revealed that Osvaldo RELOVA, First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy

in Canada, left Kingston for Toronto on 21 October 1903, on

TCA flight number 885.

5.

In a report dated 26 Nosember 1963,

BaTO ThaT OSvaLaO KELUVA Pemeltet, born on 13 August 1930, was

not the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Canada as previous

reports stated.

Canad., traveled as

Diplomatic passport D/63/115

with Mexican visa number OF-7090; he

had nu Canadian visa.

The address on his passport was given

15/3 nuaber 2119, Santa Fe Banch (sic). Habana.

6.

Cuban Commerscal Attache

on 25 August 1963, In the company of Alberta MENDUCA.

A former Cuban Intolligence officer who has been living in the United

States since 1963 and whose reporting over the past nine monchs has

proven reliable, gave the following information on 21 July

on Osvaldo RELOBA Pencchet (presumably identical with RELOVA):

In early 1961, RELOBA was

an administrator of a section

of the Consolidated Hardware Stores and annexes.

1961 he wont to see source to got help with an investigation

on a Nr. BARRAL, Administrator of the Consolidated (sic).

RELOBA was requesting sources aid in the bolled that source

was still working

for G-2: source did not tell him otherwise.

RELOBA is a new Communist who wants to be more than VARX and

1s tijing to instruct cveryone around him.

Source sald that

RELOBA was born about 1934,

is 164 pounds, five feet nine

Inches in holghe, has a medium thin build, a long face, and

• long thin neck. He has dark eyes, black hair, is partially

bald, and has a small, thin mustache.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

VIBR

---

