# 104-10111-10014

## Page 1

uice Memorandum' • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

• TO

Ch/SB/1

DATE: 21 Sept 1860

Att: Mr. Fred Buced

FROM :

Ch/SB/3

CHRIST, David

SUBjECT:

(Live Address - Westchester County)

#43872

On 16. September 1960 SAC/MFO was telephonically advised that SUBJECT

was one of several Americans reportedly arrested in Havans, and in anticipat

ion of publioity in the local newspapers, Including mention of the ostensible

residence of "Dandel CARSWELL", -, & live address In Bastchester set up by

MEO - requested to have Mr. (

the live addressee, briefed with details

of the SUBJECT'S cover stary, procured from Dick Mladen, CCD/MOC. Im

sone minor details thie story differs from that supplied by Jack Kennady,

JMARO, who requested the live address.

2: 2h

MPO was advised that GOLIATH employment ir interest in SUBJECt was not

to be indicated to

Joand advised that this cover story was applicable

1f the publicity Identified SUBJECT in his pseudo identity. In the event

of true name identification and employment by the Cubans It was explained

thatfurther instructions would have to be given, since the matter of

acknowledgement of these individuals in such case was for presidential

decision, reportedly beins made on f Septo

Per Biladeau, SUBJECT, as "CARSISTI," 18 & production management consalt-

ant, employed since May 1960 by Victor A. VACHUTA and Associates, 576.

5th Avenue, NYC.

Prio to this he had worked in a similar capacity for

the Air Force and had been stationed abroad extensively. He has been on

vacation fron Vachuta since 2 September. Diladeau advised that the

Vachuta employment 18 backstopped by & telephone answering service

arrangement, which has been instructed sindlarly to acknowledge SUBJECT

in the event of inquiry.

Subjequent information from Joe Langan, JMARC Security Officer explains why

SUBJECT was backstopped thry JHARC to the extent he was, and the other tue

ist technicians were not.

The operation on which they were sent to Havana

was an ABHARVEST one, under FE direction, On his own initiative Crist

checked with Langan, was briefed and backstopped. The other two never

passed through shalt, orders cut, briefings, handled, ate, by FE.

Mallane Jr.

SECK2T

zied

---

