# 104-10004-10248

## Page 1

7104-10004-10248]

CONFIDENTIAL

When Filled In

FROM:

INCIDENT REPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

Te Orwall

DATE

TIME

I December 1963

2030

NAME-

John E. Donovan

200g Belmont id. No We

Washington 9, Do Co

INCIDENT_

Telephone cal

GRADE_

NA

Tole: 332-7717

_TIME

0937

OFFICE

N/A

_PLACE -

Washington, De Ge

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: Donovan called to report that he lnew and worked with

Ine Unrvey. Osald for a nine month period while fulfilling his milltary

obligation in the Spring, Sunner and Fall of 1959. Donovan advised he may

posalbly be of anslotance in providing nams and ete. of Oswalds Intimate

noquaintances during that periode Subject further advised that he has not

dinoused his knowledge of Oswald with the FBI or the secrat service as of thie

tine. Donovan ia presently attending Ceorgetom Unfveralty while teaching at

Ascension Acadeny. He may be contnoted ary evening after 6100 Pollo at tre

mbove address. Donovan related that he 10 & former FBI employee having worked

there from Juno 1953 to 1956. It la Nle0 noted that advance Inolodgo of thie

call was received from NSO John Morutti and

Agency eup queen,

who are both mamberg of Capt. John E. Donovan'e Usuch unit.

ACTION TAKEN:

Contacted Charlie Kane, OS, who requested that this repart

be prepared and subitted so that the lead may be turned

over to the FBI through official channelo.

This Came out in,

Her fa bee

100°

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PPS), DD/SEC, OR D/S

COPY: EAB/PD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

1 cy. c/SRS

FORM 1798

CONFIDENTIAL

(36)

---

