# 104-10216-10094

## Page 1

104-1026-10094

i:

-..

1TI-÷394

NOV

$ 1955

TO:

Diseat

Fodorul Dureau of Invatipation

Attontions 1.9. J, Papich

FROS

Corsity Dirootor, Moms

SUBJACT! I. LYINg DAVIDSCH

MICROFILMED

MAR 15 1961

COCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE I

The: Inforation contained heroin ropresents i dung'ae than rid

statemnts me by Dublect in the course of the five nootings Iisted

above, as vall as the observations of the ageney's representative.

3. Lato in Jaly 1955, W1111ea COIDPIRO, uho 1a an offloes of tha

"Clty Canter Arlation Supply Copeny, 508 Arch Street, Fliladelphle,

Fensylvala, offico tolaphone WAlnut 24216, hoco telophone Dinity

74313, callad on subjoet.

At that tine Subleot was in the merket

for aviation parts for the lorid lar II P-5I typo planes, some of salah

ere wed by the Moregun Als fores, GOLDBIC knew of a Porthoosing

suctim of Pil insta that ves to be hold in Middlotos, Femaylvenia.

While be was in Subjoot's office, COWBIRD notleed a copy of the brochure

that Subjeot had propered to publielse the Intlonel Travel Shou, Which

ed to his soling Subjoot about his purt in the shou.. In the sourse of

thats conversation it dovelopod that GOlDBEd ban sold lation supplian

to lagos lavia for sovoral yoers and that se a rosult of those notivities

he socolved en Invitation to v1s1t lugoslenle as a purst of the Iuroslav

While in Yugoslavia CODEsAC sal

& good doal af one Jeter, MRAID DC, a former lugosley Asslatant Halltary

tourist agensy.

to the United Statos for the purpose of opening a junit travel agenty

In feN Xors CIty, MILAlDIEt nade 1t olear to GOMESIG that be sam

eparating on a anall budget and offered GOLDBERG a part interest in the

vonture. CADETO indioated that he end KINDIND talked about this

In detail, but that they did not reach a final understanding. forever,

shortly after GOLDBIRO returned to Amrica ho rocolved by mall en agree

ment are up by fatalt, apeollying the detalla of this possiblo collabora

tion

Nee Cars

1 99%

280-41581

---

## Page 2

14-00000

11.

• 2.

do This cerement, " shoto cory of which in attached, spelle

out the coltonte of both Putrik end COMRIE. In It GOLDBRO 1a

rossed a courtasion of 5 per cont in U.S. dollers of all the 0.3

nd Canerion bastness handlad by the Heu Jork City offlos of Putnal

during the perlod of ono year, 1n exchenre for uhich crime la to

rent and fally equip a travel offloe in a comerient loostion 1a

How lort Clty, GODEAd is to pey the ront for one your, surply

to necessary furniture and a talentone, end, la addition, pay a

montely Balery of 9400 to a royresentativo of Futnik, sent by the

to New Ior's fer the purpose af operating sald travel offloe, mis

agreesent, valtd for one your, does not give GangiRl any valce in

the sonarerent of the travel racnoy.

in intorostlar espoct of this

"contreat" ls that it is jumportadly aigned by the direotar of Hutnth.

The signature, though 11logiblo, boro a stalking reocublanco to th

signature of MMAID D as it appsers on his arpiloation for an entry

vios to the United states, a sutritted to the United states Consulate

la Bolgrade In the summer of 1955, ovan to the eyes of one uho ja not

« tootient expert In the flald of handuriting.

Tot, In his visa

appletion end in talking to COLlETO and later to subjeet, MAIDINIC

stated thet be le the Chief of the Poralen Litiaton of Putalk, end

noves implied that ho la the Diroctor of Futalk.

So GODETO pointed out to subjeot that he vas not pertloulerly

Interestod in entering Into my travel arrangement vith Potrik, but,

at the sen tia, he doos not vent to offend the lugoslavo, since be

hun boen doing buntrona vith them for several gears and vishes to oo

time the associatios. On the other hand, he said that this travel

assoclation night be a merative undertaling and that it vould offer

him a shance to rake purely business contacts with Arrican businesanen

Intrested in engeging in comerolal dealings idth Fugoslavle.

Ineeruch

• Subjoot hes interente end comestions in the travel flaid, GOLDBERO

iggested to his that the two of them could jointly underrite the egre

nt as proposed by fatnth. Subject sun interented but wiahed to 1

anuured that there would be no objection on the pert of Putail to him

associatlon with GOTHFAG. le therefore spobe to MIRAID IN by tolo

home and una assured that such an arrangemat uns accuptable to Putall

OOHAD IVEC had arrived 1a the United Statos prior to the tiao that

sOLD BERD first cartectod Subjeot end vas reportedly endous to establiel

the traval agency as soon a practicable.

6, 1$ this polnt "ubfoot said be realizod that Putnik 18 m

official agoney of the Tuposlar Covermont und that any Aserloan asse

mated with it in the inited States would heve to regiater with th

Dopertzont of Juntloo us a representatim of a foralgn governn

ine.

---

## Page 3

4-00000

Inasuch as Tigoslavia lo a Corniat contry, Subject frurad that

being associntod in a businoss venture with Yuroslavle ripht not

be in hin boat intrrests. Ho thercore ested the edrice es jeck

HortantIDiRjai, sho shores his suite of offloss in vestington

and sco, subject seyo, is a lastintes ropronentative of Parade

ADITS Or erad Junjoct

to ask this Apency for guldance, To this end ITISCl arranged

for rubjoot to contret a sember of this lency end present his

rochien.

As a rosult of thie nosting, subjoot mes boen eroin ba

another representative.of this Agency to vhon Subject seld ho would

exilere the Pitnlk offer in proater detall bofore comitting hirele

re at the sere time loop thia goney irforuad al the devolo renta.

7 Subfoot contacted WHADDIE on theres different does lon,

the first tino In Few York City on 4 October, the sosond and third

alass in hashineton on 11 Cetober.

Jubject Also spoke to HIlAID TEC

a nomber of tinos botucan those metings by tolephond.

• La aid1t1m

to Booing HADIEt, Stiject also not and spoice with Seepen NAPIBITI,

Toris 4a Holes telephone MAnovas 2-5380, and vith olialenT OPIVIC,

associated with MATIJASEVIC in the Yurosler State Touriat Office.

Acosing to subjeet, the glat of these netings and the varlous

tolephone convorsations Is ra follosas

In atteupting to ascertals just what MILAID LIED

had in mind in the way of a trovel arenoy and how Subjeet

enuld benefft fron his associstion with said agency,

Subfoot Learned that KNAIDDUr evidently has a time

11xit in rich to set up the travol agency and show a

degree of suovesa in 1ta oparation in order to recolve

an Increase In his operating badget In 1956. It would

appear thet MIIDIUS l0 operating on a vegy saal)

budget and 10 anger to flad sor financtal baeking at

Lenst int1l be can make a sucoese of his venture. Moan

Subfoot questioned the need for a traval aguney operated

by Putalk, sines an offielal Yugoslen State Tourist Offfen

"Subfoet stated that MIHIDINO told hin that Putalt le a private company

and thet NATIJASSVID added that 1t von sinilar to the Itallen C. I.T. tremal

agenoy. Subfect added that he personally believes it to be a goverment

coners, but that he did not pursus the subjeot with MIlAlDINa and

MITISIVI®

!

LOSE CENTIUED CONTROL

:15

---

## Page 4

14-00000

whaross the offloial uselay Goverent Tourist Office

1o In faot an informntlas offloo and not engaged in the

travel hainess.

Therefore, botr theee offloes en

Interoated in establishing the lutnik travel penay a

moon as possible, and they both have boen discussin

this problas vita subioot end GOIDIaI.

Do Jubisct it first thought that the whole deal

vas Benethie plennod by MIllD It fur to purpose

of obtaining money for his on personal u90 virbourt

the loulodpe of hia home orfio0.

After speating to

that no dishonesty uss intanded and thet the tio mon

business.

of the proporod joint undertraine, Subject concluded

that he did not dosire to get involvod ia supporting

the now agency as proposed ly hAmDe, but he did

think thet Yuporlavia should launch a publio roletions'

campalen in the taltod states, built around the opening

af a treval arency, subject therefare docided to

This, ba felt, vould beat be doze by opening a

travel agenoy on lew York'n Fifth Avaman with a

cocktail party and a blase of publicity, vith

Invitation sent to the Chief of the Fugoslar Doet at

the State Depertunt, the Mayor of How Yark, travel

and pross ropresentatives, and othere. The travel

agenoy soald be starfed to handle rublielty roleanes,

aver questions, and in general handle my specta

of travel that would be fartbooking. He alne reoom

maded that NEAIINC travel throughout the United

States and Cenade for the purpose of sating corteeta

with the Ingoslar colondes in both countrtes, Sabjeet

mald that Ingoslavia would soon reap a tenfold bonatit

now ar are abont to roodivo in the mer future.

MOFCRN CONTENDED CONTROL

22:-

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Subjeet Baid that NADINE, HIT WASAYIC rod lOrCHTe

(the lest nanod acting as the spitcaman for the three

turing tbois last meting with Subjoot), srood fully

with him but pointed out that ery undertakinr, of thin

tyne ves beyon their fiold of interest, an they and

noither the means nor the authority to enrage la such

Put es fubjoct did not vish to enter into

my other collaboration with them, they agreed to sarke

1t possiblo far hi= to neat with Yuzoslar kabesseder

Leo lATEs end outline hia ideos for a piblie relctions

Subfoot is convinced that be will be able

to convinoe Ambessador MiTES of the soundsocs of lis

proposition and thet MATES will then sponser his in

Belgrido, salina it possiblo for subject to obtain

= 572222E

the baoking of the Jugoslmy Gorient as sell for

this plan.

8, Subject mde it alour that he did not heve the mey with whieh

to undertal even the sort of business arrangement NOLIDIAN had origla

nally proposed and that he indttally contacted thie irenoy for the purpone

of obtaining finencial beckine in exchance for ery Internation that be

Wight bo chle to obtais throuph the travol agendy, later, de lie discussed

the moblen with tse Iuralavs and with his contacta in the Rational

Association of Travol Uranizations, he docided that, miasa he conid

contine the Yugoslavs that they should engrye in publialzing lugoslavia

through a rubllo relations campaten, he would drop tar matter completely.

At firat be said that 1t wight perhaps be nocessary fer him to underait

tha proposed publicity camain for the first sir sonths in order to

carvinos the Ingoslavs of the value of such a campaten. He felt sur

that after such a sir sonths trial perlod the Iuposlave sould be con

Tiaoed of the value of his sshane and sould not anly take over from that

point, but would ropay hin for his expenses.

Apats, as he does not

bar the copital that vould be roquired, he wished to know 11 thi

Ageny would be willing to underurite the empanses in return for any

Information that could be obtained through the travel offlee.

addition, Subjoct promised to return sald Invotrent, which he thini

nould run to $15, 000 to $20, 000, as soon 18 the Yagoslave repaid Ma.

He also made it cloer that he would be willing to step aside and lot

thin Agoney assign the job to 10000ne olse of its chooving 19 1t una

felt that this would be the beat uny to handle the setter.

Subfeut nald he ves corineed that he really would not be called tren

to underwrite esy of the expenses, but la wished to know what he oould

poet, just in case he did need soss money.

ngt-9-5.624

"5,".

---

## Page 6

• 6 m

Subject wan infored that Innnch as his plans call for his to

rubllelse a foreign govorment in the Unlted States, this iguay would

multher gita hin firmetal assistance nor influence in any say bla personal

decision in the matter. Subjoct stated thist be understood this Agenoys

position. He ralaed the quastion of being briefed rogerding shat ho should

Look for, should he ba invited to lugoslala by the lungley Gonsamant 1s

motion with the proposod pablofty campaign. la vas inforued that hi

quostion ves not pertinant as thare roally was no very of knowing 1f wuch an

invitation would over be forthconing.

10, Subjoet's affice la 12% Hyatt Building, 77Y Ith Street, H.Veg

Washington, talaphone DIstrict 7-3100.

This is a anite consisting of a

good aise anto room and two suall orpices.

According to Subjeot, FAIRISS la a formar State Depurtast enployso.

PARRIS la not listed in the telephons book, bat one krs, Opel|PAPRE to

Ilsted at 3520 18th Street, S lo, telephone JOnson 3-58€6, Shis 1a

entioned beonse Subfact share, with his snoo associatos, a socrater.

ose firat man 1a Opal, ADISOR and BLUMUTHAL are the Washingtor

representativen of rada ragerine, but seen to be using the jotat offioes

only occasionally. They have a separate telephone lino, DIstrict Yun, 325,

BURIAL 18 & fOrmEr DrOW FEARSAY 10g 180, Wille ANDERSO, as Bantioner

ADOTO, at121 Hurks fOr FEARSOH. Il appears that Subject, PAIRES, e

the socretary may be the only ones who use the office dally and that

ANDEFS ON GE PUNITIAL gONallY USe PARISS" roOm uhen thay are on tha

prendses.

12, Ilo future contect with cabjeet la contamplated.

C3 CL3336

Enolouros Agromment botreen Prtatk and MIllen COMDIRO

28 October 1955

MR.

-SE/FI/Turo

gtra

Distribution:

Original & 1 - FBI (w/I encl.)

. - FI/RI (w/1 enclo)

]

. - CI Staff

1.

SE/RI (1/1 encio)

1

SE/FI/R

- SEY

MOFORM CONTINIED CONTROL

201-41581

---

