# 104-10308-10194

## Page 1

104-10308-101947

MAn 91AM

OUTGOING

1 VISH DOINGELIE

a States of America

Charge:

Classification

53800

Control:

PRIORITY

Date:

27 OCT 62

DISTS 1 ~ SIG

BOARD

INDEVOUT /3/OPS

INDEVOUT/3/PROD

REPORT CHRON

3082

1 - AMB

6-10

PRITY DIR INFO

CITE

4376

TYBAT INDEVOUT 3 PERUMEN INTEL

RES

4375

OBS NOTE, FOLLOWING INTEL REPORT ORIGINATED FROM

SOUR CE AND MEETING CITED REF. NO FURTHER SUPDATA TO BE

GIVEN THIS CABLE.

FILED 271315Z

REPORT CLASS: SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO SIDDEM ABROAD

CONTROLLED DISSEM

ESG 690 COUNTRY, USSR, CUBA

SUBJ: RELAXED ATTITUDE EXHIBITED BY SOVIET AND OTHER ORBIT

OFFICIALS CONCERNING CURRENT CUBAN CRISIS

• DOIS 25 OCTOBER 1962

PADA:

1e."

• 26 OCTOBER 1962

APPR. 2 (THAT THE EVENTS

OCCURRED AS DESCRIBED)

SOURCE: SOVIET BLOC OFFICIAL (B)

1. AT A DINNER PARTY GIVEN ON THE EVENING OF 25 OCTOBER

BY A SOVIET OFFICIAL ASSIGNED TO A UN SPECIALIZID AGENCY IN

GENEVA AND ATTENDED BY A NUMBER OF ORBIT OFFICIALS AND THEIR

WIVES, INCLUDING SOVIET MINISTER NIKOLAY I. MOLYAKOV, THE

USSE PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE TO THE EUROPEAN OFFICE OF TEE

UNITED NATIONS AT CENEVA, THE ATMOSPHERE WAS RELAXED AND

ALMOST FESTIVE, MINISTER MOLYAKOV IN PARTICULAR SEEMED MUCH

FORM FS 413P

3-1-55

REPRODUCTION FROM THIE COPY 18

Classification

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

"Single-address messaves to the Department can be diverted to pouch aropriate to the ented markete mossac

the address, omit the serial number,

and pouch in envelope marked

DE) without

201-

004÷39)

---

## Page 2

13-000G

reign Dervice un the

-od States of America

OUTGOING

FORM FS 413P

3-1-55

Charge:

SILAL

Classification

Control:

Date:

PAGE TWO

MORE INTERESID IN DISCUSSING HIS PERSONAL PLANS, INCLUDING

TH FURNISING OF HIS RESIDENCE, THAN IN CONFERRING WITH

TAY OTEER ORBIT OFFICIALS PRESENT ABOUT THE CUBAN CRISIS,

WELLS DONS OF TES ORBIT OFFICIALS DEMONSTRATED UNUSUAL

CONCERS ABOUT THE SITUATION OR ATTEMPTED TO FOCUS DISCUSSION

ON POLITICAL MATTERS RATHER THAN ON MUSIC, FOOD AND DRINK.

2 WHEN THE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION WAS DISCUSSED,

IT WAS MOLYAROV WED SET FORTH THE MOST POSITIVE VIEWS.

HE CHARACTERIZID SOVIET PREMIER KHRUSHCHEV AS A "VERY WISE

MAN" WHO HAD THE CURRENT CUBAN SITUATION WELL IN HAND.

MOLYAKOV ADDED THAT KHRUSECHEV IS AWARE THAT PRESIDENT

KENNEDY "IS MAD AND AN ADVENTURER" AND FULLY UNDERSTANDS

THAT SUCH A MAN MUST NOT BE PERMITTED "TO PULI. THE STRINGS"

(SOURCE COMMENT: MEANING THAT PRESIDNET KENNEDY MUST NOT

BE ALLOWED TO RETAIN THE INLATIVE OR TO CONTROL THE PACE

IN TEE CURRENT INTERNATIONAL SITUATION). LIKEWISE

- KHRUSECHSY UNDERSTANDS THAT THE SOCIALIST CAMP MUST NOT

"PLAY KENNEDY'S GAME" AND RESPOND TO AMERICAN ACTIONS IN

TEE MANNER DESIRED BY KENNEDY. MOLYAROV REMARKED THAT

LENIN HAD STATED THAT THE FIRST REVOLUTIONANY VIRTUE IS

PATIENCE.

3. IN COMMENTING FURTHER ON THE REASONS FOR CURRENT

U.S. ACTION RE CUBA MOLYAKOV STATED THAT KENNEDY HAD BEEN

MOTIVATED BY INTERNAL AMERICAN POLITICAL REASONS (THE

FORTHCOMING ELECTIONS) , BY A DESIRE TO INTIMIDATE THE LATIN

AMERICA NATIONS, AND BY "PURE ADVENTURISM". MOLYAROV

ADDED THAT IF THE PRESENT TRENDS CONTINUED THEN THE CURRENT

SITUATION WOULD PROBABLY BE RESOLVED WITHOUT ARMED CONFLICT

17AD1

TrET

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

*Single-address messages to the

retyping.

Type

Depart me eat be inter e each aper, aia to the areat mart the messe) without

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TELE RAM

OUTGOING

roelga service or they

-od States of America

multi

Charge:

Classification

Control:

PAGE THREE

Date:

BUT THAT KENNEDY SHOULD BE CAREFUL. NOT "TO GO TOO FAR"

(SOURCE COMNENT: MOLYAKOV DID NOT ELABORATE ON THE

LATTER, PERASE).

4. AT ONE POINT IN THE CONVERSATION MOLYAKOV

REFERRED TO THE PRESENT CALLUP OF SOVIET ARNED FORCES

RESERVE PERSONNEL, STATING THAT THE RESERVES MUST BE

TOLD THAT IF THE SITUATION CONTINUED AS AT PRESENT, THEN

THEX WOULD NOT BE GOING BACK TO THEIR FAMILIES. (SOURCE"

CONVENT& THE LATTER STATEMENT APPEARED TO CONTRADICT

MOLYAKOV®S PREVIOUS STATEMENT - PER PARA 3 ABOVE - TO

THE EFFECT THAT THE CURRELT SITUATION WOULD NOT RESULT

IN ARMED CONFLICT. MOLYAKOV DRANK QUITE HEAVILY DURING

THE EVENING AND IT IS JUDGED THAT THIS LATTER STATEMENT

WAS MADE FOR DRAMATIC EFFECT AND DOES NOT REPRESENT EIS

CURRENT CONVICTION) •

5. FIELD DISSEM: AMB ONLY.

END OF MSG

10P1

FORM FS 413P

3-1-55

ORIGINATED: MIDDAUGH

RELEASED. ELMARD

Classification

"Sin eyeine yees oute efer he care omite tut age, and to the asia in ot the pese) without

---

