# 104-10095-10047

## Page 1

104-10095-10047, sai 3. 7776

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY_

_PER.

FERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

MOVANSE A CINY ISSUEL/ELOTTED

CLA8

N

10.3

FACTION A

T 431987

BIASES

TOTÁL COPIES 26 ~ 3

UN BA

SECRET

"fialoms

i eart

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TI

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISI

ST AFF

PAGE 21

TOR: 2418247 DEC 76

TE STAFF

I.

IN 119644

MEXI

38635

5

009074917213

CITE MEXICO CITY 38635

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT

REF: DIRECTOR 950056

1, STATION WAS UNABLE TO LOCATE ANY ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS

RELATING TO THE OSWALD CASE, WOULD LIKE TO CALL TO HOS ATTENTION

TWO DOCUMENTS ON MICROFICHE WHICH WILL BE AVAILABLE AT HOS:

A. IN A FILE OF RUSSIAN CONTACTS (50-8-1D-E) THE FOLLOWING

CUNVERSATICN BETWEEN LEE OSWALE AND À RUSSIAN, OBYRDKOVE

"IN AT (?) MO/THE SAME PERSON WHO PHONED A DAY OR SO AGO

AND SPOKE IN BRÜKEN RUSSIAN/ SPEAKS TO OBYRDKOV.

MO: HELLO, THIS LEE OSWALD & PHONS SPEAKING I WAS AT YOUR

PLACE LAST SATUNDAY AND SPOKE TO A CONSUL. AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D

SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON, SO I WANTED TO FIND OUT. IF YOU HAVE

ANYTHING NEW? BUT I DONIT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL.

OBY: ROSTIKOV. HE IS DARK/HAIR OR SKIN?

LEE: YES, MY NAME IS OSHALD.

OBY: JUST A MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT. THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T

RECEIVED ANYTHING YET.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

CABLEDEC

DISSEN BY

PERGONIUNIT NOTIFIED-

ADVANCE COY IBSUED SLOTTED

ACTIONUNII

RF.

ACTIONA

•PER

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

BY

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER

IBBUING OFFICE IS PROMIATE

STAFF

BV

FILE.

VR.

5

43 19 87

EI A5 25

PAGE £2

TOR: 0418247 DEC 76

IN 119644

MEXX 38535

LEE: HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?

OBY: YES, THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN

SENT. OUT, BUT

NOTHING HAS BEEN RECEIVED YET.

LEE: AND WHAT..? /OBY HANGS UP/,"

THE FOLLUWING HANDWRITTEN NOTATIONS APFEAR ON THE SHEET OF

TRAVSCRIPT: AT THE TOP OF THE PAGE "ANNIE SAW" WITH A LINE THROUGH THE

WORDS.

ALSO AT THE TOP OF THE PAGE:

"INDEX", WHICH IS CROSSED

OUT AND THE WORD "DONE" WRITTEN ALONG SIDE. IN THE LEFT MARGIN

THE NOTATION "LIENVOY 1 OCT '63". ALSO IN THE LEFT MARGIN NEXT

TO THE WORDS "LAST SATURDAY: "28 SEPT", AND BELOW THAT:

"LEE

OSNALD IPHONS"; AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PAGE: "REPORTED TO HOS

ON 8 DCT '63", AND UNDER THAT: "NO LOCAL DISSEM,", FOLLOWED

BY THE SiGNATURE

FURTHER DOWN THE FAGE IS TME

NOTATION: "THIS RECV'D 8 OCT '63" UNDER WHICH IS THE SIGNATURE

IN THE LICOOKY OPS FILE 150-5*129-31 WE FIND THE

FOLLOWING MEMO OF 5 OCTOBER 1964 FROM JOYCE WA PINEINCH PI CAN

AMERICAN FEMALE CONTRACT AGENT WHO APPARENTLY NO LONGER RESIDES

SON/UNIT NOT.-

DISSEM

IN YEXICOS: "MEXICAN COMMUNISTS WHO HAD CONTACT WITH OSWALD, AS

HAS NOT APPEARED IN WARREN COMMISSION WRITE-UPS TO PRESS.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

piTe

BRE SEC DISSEM BY-

"ABON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

RETION UNIT

RF.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTKER I

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIS

BY

AT

ST AFF

FILE

VR.

ACHION#

13|

431987

EI A525

PAGE 03

IN 119644

TOR: 041824Z DEC 76

MEXI

38635

"ALL NECKEND, GLENA CARDO DE PAZ, ELENA PAZ, !THE DAUGHTER! AND

DEBA GARRO DE GUERRERO GALVAN SAT AROUND RECALLING DETAILS OF HAVING

BEEN JIN A GROUP WITH OSWALD HERE LAST FALL DURING THE DAYS THAT

HE HAS IN MEXICO, THE WRITE-UPS OF THE WARREN COMMISSION REPORT

IN THE NEWSPAPERS SPARKED THIS DISCUSSION, AND THEY APPARENTLY HAD

NEVER REALLY SAT AROUND DETERMINED TO PIECE IT ALL TOGETHER.

ALTHOUGH ALL THREE WERE DEEPLY AFFECTED BY KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION,

SEEMED LITERALLY TO ADORE THE KENNEDY FAMILY IMAGE, STILL

FOLLOW ROBERT KENNEDY'S CAREER WITH GREAT INTEREST AND ADMIRATION,

"THE MAIN POINTS:

"ELENA AND DEBA ARE FIRST COUSINS OF THREE YOUNG MEXICANS NAMED

DURAN: RUBEN, HORACIO, AND LYNN, HORACIO IS THE HUSBAND OF SYLVIA

DURAN, THE MEXICAN GIRL WHO WAS ARRESTED FOR QUESTIONING ABOUT

OSWALD BECAUSE SHE HAD BEEN IN TOUCH WITH HIM. AT THE CUBAN

EMBASSY WHEN HE WENT THERE LOOKING FOR A VISA, ISHE IS OR WAS

ALSO A RINGLEADER AT THE GUBAN-MEXICAN INSTITUTE ON TORIO, !.

REMEMBER).

"WHILE OSWALD WAS MERE LAST FALL THE DURAN COUSINS INVITED THE GARRO

SISTERS AND YOUNG ELENA PAZ TO A "TWIST PARTY" A " THE HOME OF

RUBEN DURAN MIDOWEEK, A FEW COMMUNISTS THEY KNEW IDEBA IS A.

•ECRET

---

## Page 4

-PER-T

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

REPHODUCTION AY OTPiER

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIS

PERSTINE TOTIFIED

ADIRRINÉE SSUEDISLOTTED

RF.

FILE.

BY

AT

STAFF

VR.

7

ACTIO% #

T

431787

E1 4525

PAGE 04

TOR: K41824Z DEC 76

IN 119644

MEXI

38635

COMMUNIST HERSELF, AND ELENA HAS BEEN IN TOUCH WITH COMMUNISTS

SINCE SHE WAS A YOUNG GIRL AND WENT TO REPUBLICAN SPAIN WITH

OCTAVIO PAZI AND A NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO STRUCK THEM AS VERY

PECULIAR AT THE TIME, WERE THERE. AND OSWALD WAS THERE WITH TWO

OTHER SEATNIK LODKING BOYS, ONE OF WHOM WAS VERY TALL AND ALL.

THREE OF WHOM THEY REMEMBER QUITE WELL. WHEN THEY BEGAN ASKING

QUESTIONS ABUUT THE AMERICANS, WHO WERE STANDING TOGETHER ALL

EVSWING AND DIDN'T DANCE AT ALL THEY WERE SHIFTED TO ANOTHER

•ROOM, (THE GARROS WERE, & HOWEVER, THEY WERE INTRIGUED BECAUSE

THEIP CUUSIN SAID HE DIDN'T KNOW WHO THEY WERE, EXCEPT THAT

SYLVIA DURAN HAD BROUGHT THEM. AND NONE OF THE OTHER GUESTS MADE

LAY ATTEMOT.TO APOROACH THEM, ALSO, WHEN THE GARROS WERE SO

INSISTENT ABLUT MEETING THEM, THE DURANS REPLIED THAT THE BOYS

HEME LEAVING TUND VERY EARLY THE NEXT MORNING, THE NEXT DAY

WELL ALUNG IN THE DAY, THE GARRO SISTERS AND ELENITA PAZ, THE

DAUGMIER, SAW ALL THREE BOYS TOGETHER ON INSURGENTES. IN OTHER

WORDS, THEY HAD NOT LEFT TOWN, AT THE TIME, THEY REMARKED ABOUT

IT .

ACTION

SVANCE COMI

"AS SOUN AS SWALD'S PICTURE WAS PRINTED IN THE NEWSPAPERS ALL

TAILON LINTIN

THREE CLEARLY FENEMSGRED HIM, AND OF COURSE THE ARREST OF

wassIO

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

I5SEM BY

MIT NOTIFIED

=E COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED

IN UNIT

RF.

N

ACTIONA

T

431987

__ PER

FILE.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

FUN BY

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER 9

ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIO

STAFF

BY

AT

VR.

3

E1 A525

PAGE 05 - 05

IN 119644

TOR: 041824Z DEC 76

MEXI

38635

SYLVIA DURAN ALMOST IMMEDIATELY AFTERWARU UNDERLINED THEiR

CERTAINTY, THEY WERE SO SIOKENED SELENA AND ELENITAS THAT

THEY BROKE OFF THEIR RELATIONS WITH THE DURANS. HOWEVER,

THEIA COUSINS VERY NERVOUSLY LOOKED THEM UP LATER, DEBA GARRO DE

GUERFERO GALVAN SAYS THAT LENN DURAN AND ONE OF THE DURAN BOYS

HAVE MADE TRIPS TO TEXAS, AND THAT MOST CONSPICUOUSLY THEY

HAVA ALL PROSPERED THIS LAST YEAR, ALWAYS POOR BEFORE, THEY

NOW HAVE AN EXPENSIVE CAR EACH.

"#ORACIO DURAN WURKS AT "EL DIA" NEWSPAFER. "

C: AT THE BOTTOM OF TRE SECOND SHEET OF THE REPORT THE FOLLOWING

WORDS ARE HANDWRITTEN: "RETURNED ON 21 APR 65 AS L/1 NEVER

REGAINED CONTACT WITH ELENA GARRO DE PAZ," AFTER THESE WORDS

THERE ARE SOME ILLEGIBLE INITIALS.

2.. FILE: DEFER.

E2 IMPDET.

= no

50 +5

SECRET

---

