# 104-10185-10244

## Page 1

104-10185-10244

SECRET

TO BE OFFICE, BY ADDRE

SEE ONLY

26 dUN 1964

MENORANDIN FOR: ChieS, WIDivision

TTENTION""Ms. Leonard Libby, WH/SA/CT

THRU

Noạn CH 44

FROM

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Operational Support)

SUBJECT

COVERT, SITE

I.

Reference is made to your remorandur dated 19 May 1964 to the

Chief,

Safehouse Procurement. Branch. Office of Logistics.

This nejo

randum regiested the procurement. of a safehouse to be occupied by a

Latin Anerican., Tre safehouse was to te located in the Rethesda, Mary-

land area.

2. His will confirm verbal security approval provided the Sare-

house Procuremer't Branch by. this office for the use of the Subject.

Forwerded herewith is a report dated 18 June 1964 of the

corducted on the Subject premises. Your attention is

directed to Sectior VI on Page 2 of inis report which lists possible

security iscards. This is brought to your attention so that you will

be able to tere arcropriate action to prevent any compromise of activi-

ties at the Subject Corert Site.

3.

For your information a searcr of Office of Security Inrives

in the names of the individuals listed ir the attached report has

failed so reveal ary additional notartly or derogatory inforsation

identifiabie with cher.

4. Under no circunstarces may alassified material be stored ir

the Subject Covert Site.

In addition, the Sucject Covert Site may not

be loaned to or wilized by another comminent of the Agency without the

prior concurronce o2 ::Central Cover: Starf, the Sarchouse Procurement-

Branch, Civice or jogistios ard chis cifice.

SFPRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

It is requested that the attached report be returned to this

office in a sealed envelope: marked; "To Be Opened By Addressee Only"

when your office has no further need for It.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITI

Victor R. White

Attachnent:

Report dated 18 June 1964.

Central Cover Staff

Safehouse Procurement Branch

SFERFT

---

## Page 3

Sikh

DRICEO SECRE

Supper! Division!

REPORT

OF

INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF

---

## Page 4

SECRET

FILE NO.

482 508

DATE , 10 Junc

1961

SYNOPSIS

The SUlHNCT SITh si looarod-an. die cist

wine chdiit alotties sideor e!

in auarimont buildin.

Kroa1t ala"

mleluildtes

luettodudt:a

Iral ooorr men:

'f.

ile-seiuoome.nt

ineswin

a'i

hort distrroe oii n

latnd 1-

loscatiel÷e

1.9.m=111 24

thor005

Hourd

Rutranspor:

dercoral Service

suneroiber oon: iss.

FIrC

anci police nril.

pos adh!"

seetrity

1o.y: SUHJFCT SITE

10e°

oroiimily

a il'BECT

SITT'C

Hindoa.

pog 1hle

pinceration

• T°s'm

mreraclii ?d'e.

garkrd.in

"ald"indli

n:1°

!ri:

176,00057: 6:

1 round

leditol

ui!

Ll.a.

iudt."?

Lig STRJECI SITE

Baoranhrinl

dota

cim tliio

17008.1

ipaiopda.

sa" anrirtmciln

! tn

opairat?

Hlrnidtf iri

"omlaine in

ihi: t... o.

c: g0rl.

5/N0

REPORT NO.

CHM *8 1129

A de ta Ma herda daa dooida-x

---

## Page 5

S2U181.1

593

It.

DESCHIPTION CF ArEA

241

codern. middle lasa

Route

is

is located alot

a min it

7 anes

Tro SUBJECT SITE Juildin:

Maryland.

To thera

southi

an0he8 aportacht building

724

15. 16

which

located apprasimitel:

STEJECT

SITE buolding.

and aLBICT SITE luaidir:

108...

Acoresito

aid so para%lel

tu

the.oas:t

farned

proceerin;

castart sept Shite

Westerl 11rerilild

a hurled

11011

entrance in thr parki!

Berin

100? 1018:

anartrent.buil.ling

TO

1: 8951

SUBJECT SITF

13111

Mirab oldier

out. in

rie. dorm ol a crois. vi:!:

81045

north. southi

ed:!:

"and west.

STB 1FCT

SITC

launded inithe citreme

southere corner ni.

SURISCT SITE buildin

FD.C. Trandt. hus. servire

is

anachay incial the partie.

at air chese prostit

This

TO SURICIATE IS A 09S

parkand 1o1 is located sirdly sorte ol the cast wing

of SULFCT SITE nuildin:.

Tai embarrice is also

mailable.

Complete

peroral sorvices or located

arero: anatoly ladle inay in silver Spring, Maryland h

which can he reached

by cravelin::

0a4t 0"

bulk of parkin: area

sor detomobiles currounde

the - StETECT

SIlE bualding:

я іред", ріці п'

III.

irSCRIPTICE ON SITE

conductee!...

raid polite.

...are!

tie in a'

Minded dilliide door ideal madway

on the eith sale olate cant he de

the STJECT SITE hailding.

12/mV

---

## Page 6

3714.

383 594

sUBJect sIte is located on ire ground level of thr

SUBJECT SITE buildint

Teelevator, are looniöu it

the rear of the lobby and a naray

to ?ll iloors of

SURECT SIT? buildin. de lesated de the extrom cast

end of the cal wing.

Is CONSINICATICN SYSTEM

Telephone servace. is provided by Chesapeake and

Potomac Telephone Company on an ardividual subscriter basis

V. FIRE AND POLICE PROTECTION

Polder protection is milorded by the Montremerg

County Folice Department which hat substatan lorated n

Gorin leonue in Silver Sprint.

Fire protection

i afforded by the Silver Saraig Fire Department.

VI. POSSIBLE SECURITY HAZARDS

SUBJECT SITE a located on the tround floor of

SUBJECT SITE building (helow sound level) and,

SUBJECT SITE' windous are it/round level.

thus.

Visual and

lechnical penetration nay lo poritin drom the land arca

surioundin: SUBJECT SITE tuilding and tron the parkins

lot locared approximately

afteen lards 8o the south of

SUBJECT SITE lulluin.

.. aid SUBECT SITT.

hazard wore noted and the cleest uldin to SUPECT SITE

building s

approsamaroly lilly yards away.

VII. OUTLINE OF EXILIBITS

Eshibit of - did.rar dopicting SUBJECT SITE

buulding and area surrounding

Exhalit B -

round level floor of

SCBJECT SITE buildire.

Apartment o 10.

06

SCARTER dorn 1900 an airland and married to doan.

Thim sparent in decapien is one blended (SCHRETR

ware dan irestlaator by lnul

4. SACHs. 120 Cornerili e tornue, AW. Juic is lus:her

3/V

STORI

---

## Page 7

14-00009

333

598

described ly credal murcen as an attorned aper sillyins

intormation indiratos

Addles 00/1s Perry Plarding was

previously

detrimot:1

House Cunnitlee

reflected

in

anformat don

Ncalvities

tormation.

records were.

Apartment

11'

CB

Da Bar obe tret

birth

born

New Yorkob they gotta ten nepartment

he widow of doseph t.

fOLLES) 06

Mint emers Count:

reflected

died

natural ciuses on

June- 1900.

formerly

corner mis pee.

presilent

he Mies land Bole Partary de

silver Sprins

Maryland and thr. Gorthod

A pierious address ol C50308

Innieration ind faturalivation reeords reflected

is not a maturnliard catiron but

her certificale

at catizen-hap

thorius:

Irrisration and

Naturala:allon

number dE7:59:2069 Trened MBatmore. Maryland. Esther 06

JULLES)i employed as a homemaker.

Credit sources reflect

4ame essen toucher suise actory" t

Mildred JollFS) dauhter of Ether JoLLES) is

employed

ils;

an analyst by the Quartermaster Corps. Depart-

So ment di ine Arm

Pontagon.

An addittonal addres of

Second and D street. Sw9:

$1.0

rellected forGlildredo6

Irom dos fork on

dependent:.

creen ratingole the mees glared sorrs)oo record

te, record

for cither Gildred ICILES) or Esther JiLiES as retlected

at appropriate police dronetes and the lease Committee on

In-smericas: letivities.

ESC le:

SEGGET

---

