# 104-10440-10035

## Page 1

1104-10440-10035)

SECRET

WAF

SENSITIVA

NG NOTICE

JURCES AND

DD/P 4:2624

sensitive

Disseni

MENCRANDUL FOR: ME. - L00 Reun

SWATCCT:

Anonymons Telaphone Calis ts Valled States

Entory la cantorra, Atrile, Relativo te

Plomo orararion of Frooles Kennedy

l. l refer agila to peragroph tuo et your memorantes,

doted 12 Febrasry 1961, relative te deseminatiene do the focret

servlce made by ti.

t. En 1 November INs, n recelred frem tie Department

of the Navy o copy of s cable from the Naval Attsche in saberra,

Apetralla (% 67127, Top focret, lata, dowgraded to Secret),

reporting a toloptore converestion the proviens day vita an

anonymons Individoel eto has described himsali sa a Polinh

chantenr for the Soriel Cabassy is tat ely

Telo individal,

while docuosto, several callare of inteligence fterent, touched

on the posability that the Soriet Geverment had financed the

susanomios of Frosidon Kennedy, Rolerence vas made in tale

cablo to the recolp of a vimilar anotymous teleptono call ot

15 Cetober 1962.

3o Epon roceipt of thie cablo from Navy als toot the

following action:

=. Cabled tol

anting fall desaile of the

telephose convaraation of 23 Moverbos and the call made

on 19 Cetober 1962. l shoald be noted that CIA had net

previouely knows of the 1962 telophone call.

106- 302

WARNING NOTICE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

ING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

* on 27 November, fralshed

all evalloble Information on the 1962 telephone call, It appeara

that soures on that occsolen stated that "Iren Gurtis Countries"

plansod to pay a bundred thonone dollero for the arsistertion

of Freoldent Kennedy.

c. On 2T Novetber, the

also forniches

complete detail on the anonymoma telophone call of 23 November 196%.

¿. Cn 39 November, Gia dinseminated this information, so

supplied by ite

tothe white House, Mopartment

of State, and Federal Durean of Ivectigation, with a copy to the

Secret Serice. A copy of the dissemintian in it» exact text

le attached to this memorandam.

arranged for dtecusolos of the

1 In the opaler of the

the caller me s crank. In any sront, they

were not able to identity may Polies employee of the Soviet Habassy.

tho entomobile deseribed by the caller no the ene he drove, or the

lcense plate samber given by hit.

No further laformation on this

call has been recelved.

swallable orldence suntd send to shore that

the calle; was some sypa of crank. This conclusion, hovever, camot

be conti renee.

3a Please note that the minre of the information in the

memorandom and ito nitachment regalre the are of sennilivity

incestor.

Kichard Helmos

Deputy Directer for Plane

Attachment

-i-

Excludert from automatic)

liswarrating and

decles carra

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

ANING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

Distalbutlen:

* Addresse

2 - DDP

* C/Ct/STO

I a CH/REA/IRHetl

SECRET

CROUP 1

Greeded frami sutomatic

dewagraang and

detain

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

NING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

81091, dated 2915

anher 195% Mind as 017 hor

• Departman of State and Fedoral are

& Terr

catta sade tai

e otties of the U.S, Moval Altache in Gabe,

Auntrilla, by a so elatestag to have bad luontadio about a covi

plat do ami

anatests the Into Pooolieti Kerely Our tirel see

of the v

83*

ou to tre the boltin

Annihar at a Cortet Embassy our bit

*one Cent phoned te

ves a poor

10 an 15 Gerber 1962 veg

told a story about five Sortet menarinee carrying 400 to 500 Sortet

soldlero in thats way to Outs. One parpose of this troop movesent.

ho antd, vas to support the Goranor of Minat alppd. Mis added that

there mao s plot to pay one bundred thermad dollara to bill Proaldent

On 23 November 1969 ropont 1963, the dny after the

nosephnon of Freetdent Ronnady and ever a year nitor the Gent

tntephons cell, à sam bellaved to be lle sumo person phoned the

Embaney agais and spote to the noolstant Haval Altache, Fee saller

referred (o bis call a year back ane stated ho bud said Chal the 158R

had put up 10c,000 dollars for the snashton of Proutiont Kunedy.

Ai Gtring what ho elated wore farter deinite shout the

arosserton, tho callor enid bet cout too reels baloro (which

wond here been to cerly November 1103) be we present whos an

Austrultan man, 35 to 40 years old, and tell, wen dispatehed ay

the Serlete to the Volted Sistes carrying a esse about 38 to 40

centimelera long, 50 centimeters high, and 0. 5 centimeters wite.

The mmo Vacyl I've van need in some comoction with this tan-

Me vas put on a plane in Sydney and unile the caller drove the two

Soviet escorts tael to Canberra, thele alerturo radlo in te ear

was golng constantly. A shortwave redto vas going in the Embassy

SECRET

GROUP Y

Excladed trom zutomatic

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

Our Chono vadles, ine of there Sovlels

•* Thy rained in the Eatinery, and

nly 23 Moverber 19631, a messago come through

* he Fund Vods and Me Rosen prent mati

at we wont.

stin* about the Series sote

anne and on Soviet cavereton fa

Enderesta, He wonto not iden

My blarelf, and when he demertbed the

cathe ditren (no a navy kilos 195% Bulal, Heenas plate Mow South Wales

COG 0122) he added they olion elange plates, have Afor sete la reserve,

aste con chan

• In five sec

The caller a

nical Cabace, to Class sorts for the Borlats,

meladed ott the entles premtelag to ville a lotter

to n

al the Aborion Colde.

The coller c

To pood Eaglinh and be accent ond voice did

nel elange throughent the conversation, so il was aseumed that he

was not degateing hio voice.

Contos worn on the ence conster fee

callor to be a crant. They stato that Borlot offace La Anetralta

do unt use trytiny but Corlet chantierre, (bay horo no recert ni

their adag a Pollah chauffeur. Thoy are contasing their hivestigation.

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded tram automatic

doungrading and

declassilication

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

