# 104-10192-10113

## Page 1

104-10192-10113

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

043

1aa8

MISES A dO

I NEP TO CLEMO

• 24

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PILE RU O

RET TO BRANT O

DEstROY D

SIG ..

ROUTING

2

3

MOM UNWAVE

ACTION

1w

EX RID COPY

I!"

INO

not:

VR, FILE. ADDP.

CA?, CA/PEG,

CA/PROP, :C.OPS,

CI/IC 2.

fl,

1/0. RINT 6

DCI, D/DCI, DOP, 500 4, CAVO 4, C/PS, RI: 4V, WM 8, WH/C 12, CS/RF.

SECRET 2819582

16-7

Đ 0652492 11 20969

DIR INFO LANT

BARR CITE WAVE 4416

ises

winkles

INTEL TYPIC

SA.

SUPDATA: AMOT-245 ORALLY AT

2308 TO

HOURS LOCAL 27 JULY

RID PLS INDEX. FILEO 2819587

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSE: NO FORCION DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUZU: INABILITY OF THE MDC TO EFFECT A SALO CN THE DISTILLERY AT

SANTA CRUZ DEL NORTE, HAVARA PFOVINCE

DOl:

F7 AND 28 JULY 1965

PADAL

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (27 AND 25 JULY 1905)

UFG-7411

SCURCE.:

A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN ENDURES TRAINED IN THE ELEMENTS

I COMMENT.

51:=1)

D19 - 6-95/4

8

14. 300-10

TOCS D8-315/02539-65

WH/S

12

XX ROUTINE

BASED ON:

; PRIORITY

RELEASING I NO SAM DELAY

E: JEM. DELANEY

DATE DISTRISUTED

28 .JULY 220: Z 65

UFG-7411

NP/AM0T/2+5

SECRET

LIAISON: "

¡ENCLUDED IRON AUTOMATI

DOWSURADINO AND

DECLASSITICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUENG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

1/pV

---

## Page 2

(46)

12A-3 Use Previous Editiona

INDEX O VES, O NO

CLASSIFY. TO FILE NO

# REF TO FILE NO -

FROM

ACTION

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

FILE RID -D

DESTROY D

HEY TO BRANCH D

$10

(REVISED A -69)

MIG 1-65

ROUIING

:5

6

18

XI RID COPY

VR

FILE. ADOP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, C/OPS, CI/IC 2, FU F0/D a FI/INS

PAGE 2 IN: 20965

•OF INFORMATICN COLLECTION. THIS GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS

SINCE MID-1961. THIS INFORMATION WAS OGTAINED FROM AR INDIVIDUAL

WHO WAS INFORMED OF THE PLANS OF THE ATTACK AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT

FAILURE BY A MEMBER OF THE RAIDING FARTY.

MW COMMENT:

TDCS

TROUTINE

JASED ON:

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

' RELEASING I.WO.

SECRET

REPROL : TION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE

LIAISO!!:

RECLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

ADINO AND

ICATION

PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 3

14-00000

AT6 18-89

CONFIDENTIAL

ME IGREEN DISSEM SENTROLLEO DISSEM

ROUT INE

CENTRAI INTELLIO ENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCS DB-315/02538-65

DISTR 28 JULY 1965

DATE OF 27-25 MLY 1965

INFO.

- SUBJECT .

NABILLY OF THE MOS TO ESFECI A BALC ON THE DISLILLER

AT SANTA CRUZ DEL MUSTE, HABINA PROVINCE

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (27-28 JULY 1965)

SOURCE™

.REF

• IN

1 20969

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-7411

APPRAISALI A MENEER OF A GROUPS OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE ELEMENTS OF INFORMATION

COLLECTION. THIS GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE MID- 1981. THIS

ATTARI AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT FAILURE BY A MEMBER OF THE RAIDING PARTY..

(TDCS08-315/02530-652 DE

1.

FIELO CONMENT: THE SAME SOURCE PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT SOME

MEMBERS OF THE MOVIMENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIAN:O TROC, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC

MOVEMENT) WERE PLANNING A SEA-BORNE RAID ON THE DISTILLERY AT SANTA

CRUZ DEL NERTE, HAVANA PROVINCE, WHICH WAS. TO TAKE ELACE AT 2300

HOURS LOCAL ON EITHER 27 OR 28 JULY 1965. THO SCATS VERE INVOLVED

IN THE PLANED RAID; THE "SERNARDO 11" WIS TO ACT AS THE NOTHER

: VESSEL FOR THE "VICKY I" WHICH WOULD TAKE THE RAIDING PARTY OF FOUR

INDIVICUALS CLOSE

TO THE TARGET.

2.. THE "VICKY I" HAD RETURNED TO AN LNIDENTIFIED LOCATION ON KEY

BISCAYNE, MIAMI, AS CE ABOUT 2EDO HOURS 'CN 27 JULY 1965. THE

Mia manter contuns informalina alectiag the MAllODAl Délense o the Calied Staies michla lhe mesalas ol the laploasse lams, tille

18. UNC. Dora No and 794, lhe inasalados de revelaton as malet la spy manner lo da unauthortand permos la problailad by lam.

CONFIDENTIAL

IN POLDEN DISSEM CONTRONED OSSEN

STATE/INE

ARAY! ACSI

SES SECDEF NSA NIC AID

ONE OCA

FBI IGNS

TRE-SURY CUSTONS BORDER PATROL U.S. COAST GUARD AD/CI 2 CIA/NNCC EXO

---

## Page 4

PLACE CONTROLA ABOVE TOP. BLACK LING ANU BELOW NOTTON MLACK WINS

MTO 8-04 (10)

NO FOREIGN DISSEN CONTTILLED DISSEM

IN

IN 28969

CONFIDENTIAL

PAGE

TDESDE-515/02538-65

BE TRANSPORTED BY TRAILER TO THE HOME OF ANGEL HERNANDEZ ROJO,

"BERNARDO I ALSO HAO RETURNED TO THE FLORIDA CAST, AND MAS TO MIE

$ 1120. 5V 5 STREET. MAM FUSSIELD COMMENT: HERNANDEZ WAS PREVIOUSLY PZI

IDENTIFIED AS THE CHIEF OF THE RAIDING PARTY.) A THIRD VESSEL,

"PUNCHINCHIA," WHICH ALSO WAS INVOLVED IN THE OPERATION WAS

SCHEDULED TO RETURN AT ABOUT 24DE HOURS ON 27. JULY TO HER BERTH

ON THE MIAMI RIVER IN THE VICINITY OF 350 NW NORTH. RIVER DRIVE.

3.

THE PLANNED RAID DID NOT SUCCEED BECAUSE THE VESSELS IN

THE RAIDING FLOTILLA WERE APPARENTLY INTERCEPTED BY A VESSEL

BELIEVED TO BE A UNITED STATES NAVAL VESSEL, AND MEMBERS OF THE

RAIDING PARTY WERE TOLD TO DUMP THEIR WEAPONS OVERBOARD. (FIELD

COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT THE RAIDING PARTY

HAD ONE: 57 MM RECOILLESS RIFLE, TWO FAL RAFLES AND ONE 30 CALIBER

MACHINE GUN. AS OF $938 HOURS ON 28 JULY, NO INFORMATION HAD BEEN

DEVELOPED TO SUPPORT THE ALLEGATION THAT A UNITED STATES NAVAL VESSEL

INTERCEPTED THE RAIDING FLOTILLA.)

4. FIELD DISSEM:: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, I&NS, FBI AND CUSTOMS. (ALSO SENT.

CONFIDENTIAL

ENÓ ÓF MESSAGE?''I

NO PUREIGN CASSEM CONFEGED OSSSEM

---

