# 104-10173-10130

## Page 1

104-10173-10130

SECRET

дія .

20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1. Iphoned Paul Burns, Special Assistant to the DDO, and

said that we had some leads that could be followed by whoever has

the action in the DDO in tracking down Hunt's activitios during the

• fall of 1964, when he was alleged to have been engaged in surveillance

activities of Barry Goldwater.

I said that our files showed Hunt was in DO Division (Burrs

was not famillar with that title, but recognired it as the predeceasor

of FR Division) and in August 1964 was assigned to the Washington

field office. I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division

Chief of DO Division and now DCOS might be in a position to

give a lew groups on what Hunt was supposed to be doing then. I

suggested that he be queried by cable.

Burns said Gaines is staying

on under contract for a while, so would continue to be available,

I said that Fig Coleman was on the Iberian desk when the

Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1961 and when Hunt

went to the field in 1965, He could give the background on the assign-

ment, which seems to have been through Karamessines at Helms!

ecame cos recolateron would siye leads. I told him that Colemat

after Hunt left Spain, and could provid

information on what Hunt did not do for the Agency during that period.

I suggested that both Helms and Karamessines should be queried.

I gave as a possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged in

domestic opcrations (something Senator Baker is pursuing) and that,

his assignment to Spain after the election could be presented as giving

him time to cool off. I thought we had to pursue the matter to be

sure we know the facts.

4, lasked Burns to be sure that we are on information distribution

of cables to the field on this, given our assigned responsibility for

keeping files on Watergate.

He said we are on the PLMHPLANI for

messages to Helms. He would advise the action officer. I said we are

available for any help we can give.

4D. Brechn

5. D. Breckhridge

::: 6=-54.

---

## Page 2

дся

20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1.. I phoned: Paul Burns, Special Assiatant to the DDO. and

said that we had some leads that could be followed by whoever has

the action in the DDO in tracking down Hunt'a activities during the

fall of 1964, when he was alleged to have been engaged in surveillance

activities of Barry Goldwater..

I said that our files showed Hunt was In DO, Division (Burne

was not familiar with that title, but recognized it as the predecessor

of FR Division) and in August 1964 was assigned to the Washington

field office. I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division

Chief of DO Division and now DCOS L

might be in a position to

give a few groups on what Hunt was supposed to be doing then." I

suggested that he be

e queried by cable.

Burns -said Gaincs is staying

on under contract for a while, so would continue to be availabic.

3. I said that Fig Coleman was on the Iberian desk when the

Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1964 and when Hunt

went to the field in 1965. He could give the background on the assign-

ment, which seems to have been through Karamessines at Helms'

direction, His recollection would give leads.

i told him that Coleman

became COS

later, after Hunt left Spain, and could provide

information on what Hunt did not do for the Agency during that period.

I suggested that both Helms and Karamessines should be queried..

I gave as a possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged in

domestic operations (something Senator Baker is pursuing) and that

his assignment to Spain after the clection could be presented as giving

him time to cool off. I thought we had to pursue the matter to be

sure we know the facts,

I asked Burns to be sure that we are on information distribution

of cables to the field on this, given our assigned responsibility for

keeping files on Watergale.

He said we are on the PLMHPLANK for

messages to Helms. He would advise the action officer. I said we are

arailable for any help we can give.

aD, Richin

S. D. Breckinridge

---

## Page 3

SECRET

9 May 1974

MENORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO

SUBJECT

: Watergate File Research - Final Report:

The files of the limediate office of the Chief, OPS/OSG

have been checked for matertal relevant to the subject of this

memorandum: The check included chronological files of communt-

cations of which I was

the author while assigned to

in the period July 1970 to July 1973. Nothing pertinent was found.

2.

I have attempted to recollect any other details which

concelvably could be pertinent and which relate to the period

of my assignment

The only points which I recall but

on which I have no documentation are these:

There were. occastonal joshing.inquiries made of me

by American residents

J about the reported presence

in Spain of E. Howard Hunt in 1972. My standard reply was.

that I knew only what I had heard rumored:

For the record,

having tree dia cot act any Station person ever Known durtis

having tried to contact any Station personnel inC

the period 1970-73.

I made no effort personally to ascertain

whether or not Hunt was in Spain, and I had no effort made by

any Station member.

A Station officer, possibly l

assigned tol

was given some information by an

informant in 1972 concerning reported activities in Spain

by Róbert Vesco.

I suggested that the information be given

informally to the Embassy's Economic Section chief, John

Oliver. That officer was charged with keeping abreast of

developments related to Vesco:

The Station did. not pursue

that subject, as i recall, because it was not a topic of

reportable interest, according to requirements of the period.

E2 IMPET

CL

GY

056759

SECRET

---

## Page 4

pican 4.49 29 8.

SECRET

-2-

SUBUECT: Watergste File Research - Final Report (cont'd)

3. There is no other employee assigned to my immediate

office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and

personalitles.

Reet E: Dueir

Robert E.

Owen

Chief, OPS/OSG -

---

## Page 5

*..

UNCLASSIFIED

INL

-NAL

USE ONLY

O CONFIRMIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

FROM:

EITINCTE

Director of Finance

1212 Tex Building

So 0 comini, dom minibe, and

DaT?

27 February 1974

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

Inspector General

2E 24. HOS

zied

ile

10.

83.

IN:2916

---

## Page 6

SECRET

2 7 FES 1974

MENORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT

: Howard Hunt

1.

At the recent request of the Deputy Director for

Management and Services, the Office of Finance has searched

its records to determine if we could find any payment to

Mr: Hunt in an amount of approximately $30,000 that required

no accounting.

2. We have searched the following records:

• 2.

The expense runs for the period July 1964 to

June 1973 for the immediate Office of the DCI,

b.

d.

flected in these expense records but have

identified nothing relating to Mr. Hunt.

The

Station, JMVAVE and FR/Washington

Office accountings to determine if there were

funds passed by the Stations to Mr. Hunt during

the year he served under non-official cover in

Madrid. We could find no payment to Mr. Hunt

either in his true name or his tivo identified

pseudonyms.

Mr:. Hunt's travel claims for the period

1960-1972 and have found nothing in these

travel claims that were not consistent with

normal travel expenses, i.e., transportation,

per diem.

We made a specific analysis of Mr. Hunt's.

advance account for the period he was. under

non-official cover (July.

65-Sept 66) and have

E2

INPDET

CL BY:

006567

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

SUBJECT: Howard llunt

determined that $33,500 was advanced to him

for travel and transportation of household

goods to and from Nadrid with one trip to

Paris for he and his family to renew their

Spanish visas.

All of this

advance was fully

accounted for.

However,

in his accounting,

one item appeared unusual.

It was

an

expenditure of $1,600 for a sensitive

operation which was approved for write-off by Mr.

Desmond Fitzgerald on l June 1960 without

further accounting.

Also;

we confirmed that no other Agency advance accourts

WErE

established for. Mr. Hunt during this period.

At the beginning of his non-official cover tour, d

it

was necessary to establish a bank account in his name.

EUR Division accordingly requested ve open an account at the

Chase Manhattan Bank in Mr. Hunt's name to receive all non-

salary payments.

(MT. Hunt had an account at Riggs National

Bank to receive

his salary and allovance payments).

The

following deposits were made to the account during 1965 and

1966:

Account opened: 13 July 1965

13 July 1965

22 July 1965

15 September 1965

6 October 1965

19 July 1966

$10,000

5,000

5,000

5,000

5,000

$30,000

Ail of the above have been accounted for by submission

of travel and transportation accounting$:

5.. We feel at this time without

specific guidelines that

further searching would be somewhat

fruitless.

One

strange

aspect of the non-official cover assignment in Madrid, is that

al1 the

costs lere charged to the support allotment of the

EUR Division which is not normal as non-official cover people

are usually assigned to a project.

It is unusual to have a

case officer abroad for

one

year on an operational assigment

without him incurring operational capenditures.

-2÷

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Howard Hunt

6.

The Offico of Finance has not found operational

expenditures except for the $1,600 mentioned above.

Therefore, it is suggested that Mr. Karamessings be questioned

as to a project or projects to which Mr. Hunt's operational

expenditures if incurred would have been charged.

Dircctor to approve my

tor Another possible course of action is to request the

at Chase

Manhattan Bank to provide a transcript of all entries into

Mr. Hunt's Chase Manhattan Bank account. •

We are currently reviewing records of all cashier's

chocks prepared and issued by Monetary to determine if any

were payable to Mr.

Hopefully this effort will be

finished by the end of the week.

Еме

Thomas

B.

Yale

Director

of Finance

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

COME BENTIAL

¿0 December 1973

MEMORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1. I spoke with Fig Coleman about Hunt's assignment to Spain.

I hnd spoken with him back in August when we were inquiring into

roported activities involving Mrs. Hunt

Coleman said that he got out of the War College in May 1964

(by which he fixed the time), and took over the Iberian desk.

BIll

Ryan was C/EUR (or was it WE Division at the time). In early autumn

Ryan said that he had just been informed by the DDP (Karamegaines)

that Hunt was to be assigned to

as DCOS, as a directed assign-

ment by Helms. A mémo was prepared and sent to the COS,

(now retired). There was nothing further for about a month when Ryan

called Colemar in and showed him a RYBAT letter from

that Ambassador Stanley J. Woodward would not have Hunt in the

Embassy.

3. - Woodward had been the Ambassador to Uruguay when Hunt

was COS Montevideo. He had a low opinion of Hunt and was counting

the days until Hunt left. The President of Uruguay visited President

Eisenhower in the States,

at which time he requested a personal favor.

that Hunt be reassigned to Montevideo. So Hunt took another tour.

Woodward was outraged, and had his revenge in 1964 when Hunt was

to be sent as DCOS to

4. After a couple of months--early 1965--Ryán called Coleman

in and, observing that there was more than one way to skin a cat,

told him that Hunt was going to Spain under nonofficial cover. This

didn't require anything special. Ryan saying thät he didn't know

much about it. It canie to him from Karamessines on Helms' order.

Hunt was to have the telephone number of the COS, but he would do

nothing for the station. Hunt was to submit administrative vouchers

for reimbursement of his expenses and they were to be paid. Coleman

said he never saw Hunt belore he went oul. He knows that there was

no operational reporting, to indicale that Hunt was doing anything.

want di

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SCERBEMTAL

The vouchers were not large, although the documentation was poor.

Coleman raised the question with Ryan about his signing off, and

Ryan said he could talk to Karamessines if he wiahed. Because

Coleman had a close personal association with Karamessines he

did Just that. He was told by karamessines that he didn't krow much

about it either--"Helms said send him out," He was instructed to go

ahead.

In carly. July 1966 (4 July) Coloran went to Madrid. He

had a ten day turnover ivith

Hunt had already gone and

he did not see him. said he didn't know what Hunt did, but

that Coloman need not worry because ho was gone.

Sevoral months ago

was at a seminar at which

Ambassador Woodward was also present. At the time he asked

about Hunt.

Woodward said it might still be dragged into the press.

Tad Szulc had been after Woodward about the Hunt assignment to

Spain. Coleman observed that Szule did have a long article on Hunt

in the New York Times, and the Spain assignment was mentioned,

but without any conclusions as to its significance:

7: Colemin said the RYBAT file of C/EUR may have something on

the event, but not much. A letter out and the reply, but not much more.

42. Rudel

S. D. Breckinridge

• Pie In:

---

## Page 11

22 February 1971

IG Fill! Tub 38.

MEMORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt--Madrid Assignment

On 22 February 1974, Mr. Frederick N. Evans

and the unders, Deputy ervicted for Operad pass on

the subject of Mr.. E. Howard Hunt.

During the perioc

of Nr. Hunt's assignment as a Contract aGRe A agent

to Madrid between July 1965

and September 1966, Mr.

Ryan had been the Deputy Chief of the Western European

Division,

Deputy Director for Plans.

The purpose of

the intervicw was to determine if Mr. Ryan had any

information bearing on the matter of the operational

assignment of Mr. Hust during this period.

2.

Mr.

Ryan stated that the assignment of Mr.

Hunt both

to the European Division and to. Madrid was

handled without benefit of the routine processing

procedures through the Western European Division.

Mr. Hunt's assignment was coordinated and directed

by Nt. Thomas Karamessines, the Assistant Deputy Director

for Plans..

With regard 'to

operational duties, Mr. Ryan

was unaware of any

specific project.or target

for Mr.

Hunt.

NT. Ryan

made the specific observation that if

Mr. Hunt produced positive intelligence on the Iberian

target during this period the officials responsible

for this effort within the Western European Division

were totally unavare.of it.

3.. Mr. Ryan stated that most of his knoyledge of

Mr. Hunt's activity and the nature of his assignment

during this period came more. through hearsay than

direct official knowledgé.

For example, he cited the

comment made by

a mutual acquaintance. of his and vr

Hunt's to the effect that Mr. Hunt stated that while

---

## Page 12

under the

impression that ir. dune's sriting activities

were cither being encouraged or subsidized directly

by this Agency in ary official effort.

Nr. Ryan ro"

sponded

that he was personally not arare of any such

arrangerent.

He added

aS

an expression of personal

opinion that Mr.. Hunt had no opcrational function and

was simply granted the opportunity to write books for

his own personal gain at Government expense during this

period.

Heir

Lawrence J. Howe

---

## Page 13

550KAT

TO

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDHESE

DATE

INITIAL"

Mr. Howe

LACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT.

CONCURAENCE

Hemarks:

: DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME.

ADORESS-AND PHONE NO.

0/IG/224 Has. /5527

USCIASSIFISD

8-d)

237

tiso previous editiong

CONFADENTIAL

DATE

22 Feb. 74

SECRET

140)

A, .9.

---

## Page 14

В жов свето лі,

VEN CLASS

TION TO-ANO DOTTON

SERTET

1G. File 10, Tale 32

22 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with Sam Halpern

I. I met with Sam Halpern for about 20 minutes this morning

in GGl0, where he is cleaning up some details before he goes to

his new assignment as DC/DCD. I told him generally about our

attempt to reconstruct Howard Hunt's assignments and financial

transactions, and asked him particularly for recollections he may

have of Hunt's assignment in Spain in mid-1965 to the fall of 1966.

2. Halpern said that he has no recollection about such an

assignment. In June 1965 he moved from WH Division with Des

FitzGerald when he became the DD/P.: At about that time

Halpern's father died and he was in New. York for the funeral

and ten days of religious observations followiny that. " He was back

in mid-June and in and out from then on as he got ready to attend

the National War College which began in August.. He did not return

to, that office until the end of June 1966.

Halpern observed that daring this period Karamessines

was ADDP with Helms moving up to be DDCI. He thought it entirely

possible that Helms and Karamessines could have handled this

on their own.

Halpern said that Evan Parker had come into the office

of the DD/P shortly before Helms became DDCI, and had returned

from Honolulu for that purpose. He stajed on for FitzGerald until

Halpern returned from the National War College. He suggested

someone might talk to Evan Parker who may have known something

abou: it (although ha may not). He aiso suggested talking to Georgia.

Js! S. D. Erectinridge

S. D. Breckinridge

872257

---

## Page 15

1d-0d0d

(

I 6 Felo 12, Feel 54

21 Fcoruary 1974

NEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Watergate--Frank A. O'Nalley

At 3 p.m. on the afternoon of 19 Eebruary 1974,

Mr. Frederick N. Evans and Lawrence J. Hove interviered

Nr. Frank A. O'Malley at his residence, 6419 Lakeview

Falls Church, Virginia.!

Ny. O Malley retired

from this Agency in

of 1972.

Prior to retirement

Mr. O'Malley was

an officer in the External Employment

Assistanco Branch, Retirement Activities Division of

the Office if Personnel:

It was Ni. O'Malley's function

to assist personnel retiring from this Agency in finding

post-retircment employment.

In this capacity Mr. O'Malley

had been instrumental in the plac-ment of Mi. E. Howard

Hunt in the Robert R. Nullen public relations firm.

The

purpose of this intervier was to attempt to dotermine if

additional information could be developed from Nr. O'Malley

with regard to the placement of Mr. Hunt with

the Mullen

Company.

Mr. O Miley began the interview by recalling

the nature of his past Agency associations both with Mr.

Hunt. and the Mullen

Mr. O'Malley stated that

prior to assuming his responsibilities in the Office of

Personnel he had served with Central Cover Staff in the

area dealirg with the funding of covert action projects.

In this capacity he had become familiar with the acti-

vities of Mr. Hunt while Mr. Hunt functioned on the Covert

Activities Staff primarily in the propaganda field. Nr.

O Malicy stated that he first came in contact with the

Mullen Company when he was attempting to find

an organi-

zation to handle the public relations effort of a covert

Agency activity known

es the Free Cuba Committec.

Mr.

Ordalley related that he had arranged this

cover through

the Christianforn Orgonization and

that his duties in-

volved all aspects of

the funding of this activity.

Mr.

O'Malley described the rature of his working relationship

---

## Page 16

14-00000

with dr. Robert R. Mullen as being close and cordial.

Pir. OMalley seated that Mr. Millen ins in the habit:

of confiding

to him information concerning other Mullen

ousiness concacts and projects.

I n

response to

specific quescion, Mr. O'Malley stated that during the

period of his contact wich the Nullen Company dealing

with

the Free Cuba Committee, Nr. Sullen told

him the

Howard Hughes Organization

was a Client of the concern.

3.

No. O'Malley reiterated his

previous statements.

that Mr. Hunt was referred to his office for placement

assistance through the Office of the Executive Director,

then Colonel L. K. White.

with Mr. Robert Mullen for the purpose of gaining the

benefit of Mr..

Mullen's guidance.

Mr. O'Malley rocalled,

after the initial meeting, Mr. Mullen menzioned having

met Mr. Hunt some ycars previousl) in Paris, France.

Nr. O'Malley's office arranged interviers with various

organizations including Reader's Digest and the Kennecott

Copper Company.

Through the offices of the Mullen Company

an intervier was arranged with the General Foods Corpora-

tion, a Nullen client.

Mr. O'Malley stated there was

disappointment that Mr. Hunt had been unsuccessful in

"selling himself" during any of these interviews and that

no job offers had resulted.

In response to a question

as to whether of not executive level interest was. still

being

shown in Mr. Hunt's post-eploynent placement,

Mr.

O'Nalloy recalled that Mr. Richard Helms, then

Director of Central Intelligencs, las listed

as a Charac-

ter reference on Mr. Hunt's resume and that Me. Holms

signed a letter of rocommendation to the Kennecott Copper

Company on My. Hunt's behalf. Mr.. O'Malley recalled being

contacted in the last mönth of Mr.

fint's Agency service by

*: Mullen, who stated that a decision had been made to

expand their onerations.

Mullen, had decided he would himself offer Mr. Hunt a job.

Mr. Mullen had stated that he wis interested in having Mr.

lunt begin work inmediately.. However, Mr. O'Malley re-

called that Mr. Hunt completed retirenent formalities and

actually started work for the Mullen Company approximatcly

a week to 10 days later.

2

---

## Page 17

14-00000

i,.

ir. O falley stated that contact mis maintained.

with Mr. Hung while at the Mulien Company on & continuing

basis, because Me. O'Malley vas interesied in dir. Hunt

for possivle referral of other Ayency retirces.

O'Malley also understood that there was Cover and Con-

mercial Siaff interest in the Mullen Company, ard that

Mr. liunt becane instrumental in discussing

several aspects

of

the cover operations in his capacity as an officer of

the company.

Mr. O'Malley recalled referring various

Agency officers to Mr. Hunt for guidance when these indi

viduals expressed an interest in entering the public

relations field.

•Mr. O'Malley did recall disappointnent

in feeling Mr. Hunt had generally been less helpful on

these occasions.

5.

Mr. Hunt contacted Mr. O'Malley on several occasions"

requesting referral of retiring Agency employees vith

specific qualifications.

These instances occurred apparent-

ly after Hir. Hunt had assuned his responsibilities with

the White House.

In one instance Mr. Hunt requested re-

ferral of a recently rotired Agency secretary..

previous memoranda and discussions, Mr. O'Maile) Nas unable

to recall the name of this individual.

lle did, however,

state that he is quite certain MI. Hunt turned down the

individual whom he referrod. As a point of clarification,

Sit. O'Malley said that this individual had not previously

been known to Mr. Hunt, nor had she previously vorked

for him in

any capacity. Ni. O'lalley also recalled a

request from Nr. Hunt for an individual having stilis in

the area of locks and surreptitious entry.

A resume of

Mr. Thomas C. Amaco was provided to Mr. Hunt at that tine.

Itiis Mr. O'Malley's recollection that Mr.

Hunt specifically

stated that a person with Mr. Amato's qualifications was

needed in connection with a requirement of the Howard

states ore optatio ha as vass, "emadassion on 1ley

duties involved.rould include the monitoring of a listening

device in an undisclosed location.

Mr. O'Malloy reiterated

his understanding that Mr. Anato did not accopt No. Hurt's

iffer of employment.

Mr. G'Malley then recalled request from Mr.

for a reconnendation of a

security sorvice

to carry out in clectronic.countermeasures "sween."

O'Maller recommended the laclenhut Corporation.

---

## Page 18

1d-0d0d

O'ralley recalled that tr. Hunt copressed dissatisfaction

that suggestion in part because of

wat tr. nunt

rieved as that firm's political crieniction.

No. 0'Nallc)

did not claborato further on that remari.

Mr. O'Nalley

then suggosted the use of Anderson Security Consultants.

Incorporated,

Mr. O'Mallcy stated that insofar as this:

organization vas advertised in the jellor

pages and that

Mr. Hunt could be assured of the reliability of the ser-

vices, he felt this to be a reasonable suggestion.

ar. Hurt responded

At this point Mi. O'Malley was asked whether or not from

his associations with Mr. Hunt he felt Nr. Hunt was in

the habit of making glib connents which were not neces

sarily accurate in order to pass over a subject.

O'Nalley stated that this was catogorically so.

he was sure-that Mr. Hunt had lied

to him on a number of

occasions and that, therefore, he vas in no position to.

be sure that Mr. lunt had actually, in fact, used

services of Anderson Security Consultanis.

Mr. 0'Malley

volunteered the opinion that he suspected the electronic

counterneasures "sweep" was to be carried out in the offices

of the Committce to Re-elect the President.

In response to a question as to whether le had

ever roferred anyone' to NcCord Associates, Mr. O'Malley

replied that he remembered having referred lalter Brayden.

Air.

Brayden for a time acted as bodyguard to Mrs. Martha

Mitchell.

As an aside Mr. O'Malley mentioned

that Mr.

Brayden had refused to carry a fircaim in spite of the

fact that Mr.

NcCord told hin he could do so on the author

ity of the Attorney General. Asked specifically if he had

ever referred either Willian Shea or Teresa Shea to Mr.

NicCord, Pr. O'Malley stated that he did not recall specif-

ically referring Teresa Shea and that he was sure that he

So, contrary to

previous statements, it is now Mr. O'Malley's belief that

in all probability Nrs. Shea sas not referred by this

Agency to Nr. McCord:

...I=4.i

---

## Page 19

14-00000

8.

Rei-ning to Mr. O'balley's pi-rious responsibilities

in coordinating funding for the covert action activities

of Mr. E. toward Hunt, the issue was raised as to whether

or not the funding of

Mr. Hunt's projecis continued beerson

July 1955 and Soptenbor 1055 While Mr. Munt vas a contract

No. O'Malley recalled

stucenoni eisseminated

for consumption within the Agency

WIS

that Mr. Munt was ictiring.

Mr. O'Malley stated that

this was not generally believed.

Me. O'Malley as quite.

certain that during this period his office handled no

project funding for Mr. Hunt.

In response to specific

question Mr. O'Malley stated that on

Mr. Hunt's return

to

staff employment the projects and funding which stopped in

July: 1965 were again resumed.

Mr. O'Malley was not aware

of any project names or funding nechanisms or post-assignment

accountings in connection with Mr. Hunt's activities in

Madrid.

Frederick N. Evans

Fastenee

---

## Page 20

1d-0d0d

. 3

21 Fobruary 1978

indigs l

It 11

said st 3t

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Offica of Finance Records - E. Howard Hunt

On the instruction of Mr. Steven L. Kuhn, Chief

of Operationg, PSI,

the undersigned made an appointment

For tha afternoon of 20 Fabruary 1974 to interview Mr.

Wl11Lam Caufleld, Chief, Cortification and Llalson Divi.

sion, Office of Finance,

of Pinance

on the subject of Mr.

Howard hunt. At the outset of

the Intervion NT. Caufleld advised

the undarsigned that

Instruction had been recoived from the Director of the

Offiço of Finance, Mr. Thomas Yale, that discussion on

tha subjact of Mr. Hunt was to be carried out only with

the Office of the Inspector Goneral. Mr. Caufleld stated

that he had intomod Mr.. Yalo of the requested interviow

and had Isceived this instruction with the suggestion

that the undersigned contact Mr. Yale directly with any

Inquiry.

2.

Accompanied by Mr. Caufleld, the undarsigned

briefed Mr. Yale on the naturo

the request and idon-

tiflod tha

"Tast Force" offort being undertaken by the

Office of Security In concert with the Offices of the

Inspoctor Genoral and Logislative Counsel.

Yaspondad that ho recognized the legitiacy Or helin-

quiry.

Mr. Yals explained that subsequent to initiation

of the complete audit being undertaken by Me

of--

the Audit. Staff, the Deputy Director for Management and

Services, Mr. Harold L.: Brownman,

had requested the

Offica of Finance to discontinue their invastigation of

Mr. Hunt to avoid duplication.

Mr.

Yale aided paren

thetically that it was the naturs of Pinance Officers

not to loave a job half dono

and that en.

"informal"

inquiry into Mr. Hunt's flnanclil records had neverthe

less continued

at a more sudduad

pace.

17:13

E2 INPDET

CL BY 011696

---

## Page 21

14-00000

3.

A revior of the circunstancos surrounding Mr.

ilunt's convorsion to Contract Typo A employment and

assiament was then undertakon by Messrs. Yalo, Crufiold,

and the undorsigned.

Tho contract and payroll

filos Of MT. Hunt wore revlowed for possiblo indications

of tho nature of the operational activlly undertaken in

Madrid.

revlew of travgl vouchers indicated chat Mr.

Hunt and his family made accountings indicating departure

fron Washington, D. C.

on 5 August 1965 with un arrival

In Madrid, Spain, on 16 August 1965.

The costs of this

travel were charged to the budgor of the Western HaBi-

sphere Division, Ceputy Directorate for Plans,

Station Support account. A subsequent accounting sun

marizod PCS travel expenses and included a payment for

apartment tental for 16, 17 and 18 August 1965 with a

payment in the amount of $125 to Mr.

this purpose.

4.

It was dotormined that an allottee bank account

in Mr. Hunt's name had been ostabllshed at the Riggs

National Bank of Washington.

All salary and other non-

oporational reimbursements were made to Mir. tunt through

sterilo check to this account.

An operational account

was established for Mr. Hunt with the Chase Manhattan

Bank of New York City.

A review of ail paymants made

Mr. Hunt through the Chase bank account through Mit. Hunt's

oporational advanco subsidiary account, or 1442 account,

had been made.

Thore was no record of any operational

accounts or advances being processed through this channel.

Nir.: Yals statod that this fact defined his concern.

He

felt that

It was inconceivable that Mr. Hune could have

undortaken operational activity without some transfer of

or accounting for funds.

To dats, no such records have

been devoloped.

No referenco to a project or project.

digraph or operational FAN number has been located.

expenses connected with i. Hunt identifled to data wors

A reviow nade of

charged to the Locoras nas not indicated any "Developmental

and Target of Opportunity (OSTO)" funds or "Other Opera-

tional Activity (COA)" funds expended by or on behalf of

Mr. Hunt.

Thase two accounts would normally bo the source

of operatlonal funding not charged agalist a spocific pro-

ject activity.

2

6:2.37/020518173

---

## Page 22

1d-0d0d

5. A serior of all of tha travol vouchors on record

for Mr. lune during this period also failed to identify

a projece. In addicion to cho PCS and rocur vouchors,

two ochor accountlags are on record.

ono accounting

covered a trip by the

tho renoval of visas entire lune family to Paris "for

A second voucher covered a TDY

trip from Madrid: to jashingion with roturn to Madrid

mala by jr. Hunt fron 5. January to 3 January 1966.

statos in tha spica provided for the citation of

the trayal order number - "no travol ordor.""

The account®

ing was approved and signed by Mr. Thonas Taramessines,

taen deputy Director for Plany.

No justification or

statement of purpose for this TDY was given on the account

5. Nr. Yale doteralned that furthor rovlow of possible

sourcas or identifiestion of operational funding was in

Sit. Yale gave instructions thaz the entiro 1442

advance accoun: of Mr. Hunt be revlewed for other possible

channels of funding outside of the Nex York Chaso account.

After discussion, it was agreed

that particular attention

bo taken to any lions connected wich publishing or book

royalties. Mr. Yale noted that the royalty offset waiver

provision anuended to Mr. Hunt's contract was, in his ex-

perionca,

sonewhat unusual.

Yala was inforned by the undorsigned of the

-Intention to interview Mr. Edward Byan,

currently Chief,

Division D, sho was at the time of hr.

Hunt's Madrid assign-

ment, Deputy Chise of she Westarn Henisphere Division.. Mr.

suggested that Mr. Davis Powell also be interviered.

Tha undarsigned informed Mr. Yale that this had Seen done

and briefed Mr. Yale on the generally nogativo results of

tag intervier.

Mr. Yala then

recomended that Mr. Sam

Halpern be intorriered.

Ur. Yale noted that Mr. Halper

had been an assistant to de. Desmond Fitzgerald

when the

latter wag Chief,

Nestern Hemisphere Division and had ac-

companied Mr. Flizgerald when he becine Deputy Disctor For

Mr. Yale recalled that subsequent to Mr. Fitzgerald's

passlag that de. Halpera remained on the stais and actod as

in Erecutlve Officor for Mr. Thomas Jaramossings.

siazad that iron his experience, Mt. Karinessiras would

hayy dalegazad all the arranzing of

"josily" surroundin;

un assignaent such as Nr. Hunt?s. to Mr. Halpern.

NT. Yale

Offered the parenthetical obseriation of his

surprise at

what he interpreted to be reticanco to data to interfer:

3

57007 58981773

---

## Page 23

14-00000

8.

The undersigned

assured Mr. Yale that he would be

informed of any inforaation

identisying any possible projact

activity developed in subsequent investigation.. Mr. Yale

stated that any informacion in this area would greatly

facilitate the job of checking conputorized financial

records.

Lavrence J. Howe

119-211 1a

173

---

## Page 24

1d-0d0d

CHASE NI

TIAN LAK ACCOUNT

• Check No

8

9

10

Date

20

October, 1965

Payee

Unknown

12 months rent as deposit plus 1 month

in advance at $550 per month.

tlated by lease)

Substan

26 November, 1965

Casa Guggenbuhl

(for storage of trunks during 3 mos.

temporary housing)

10 December, 1965

Security Storage Co.

(final destination charges per attached

invoice.

Insurance charge of

$1.00 is

personal expense.)

Amount

$ 1,650.00

$.

69. 34

$ 1,070.82°

November 13, 1965

December 20, 1965

Expenses

Flowers for Sra. de Max

Borrell

Dinner at house of Ming.

Ex-Bolivian Ambassador and wife.

(Per my letter of 21 December, 1965)

Ptas. 150

Ptas. 2250

31

inf.)

Nhin

---

## Page 25

1d-0d0d

SERVICES OTHER THAN PERSONAL

DESCRIPTIOS DE GRORSDITIAT • ATTACH RECEIPTS AND

OTHER

18

Novil965

20 Dec 1965

Flowers for Sra. de Mar Borreld.

Dinner at llouse of Ming.

Pesotas 150 @ 60/$1.00 - $2.50

3x-Bolivian Ambassador and wife.

Pesetas 2250 @ 60/$1.00 - $37.50*

= For eporational security reasors a raceipt was not obtained.

(Gredit the lil. 2 advance account.)

10.00

PATIFY THAT THE DISBURSIMENTS ITEMIZEO ABOVE VERE NECESSARILY MADE DY ME IN THE CONDUÇT

"DEFICIAL BUSINESS DE A CONFIDENTIAL, EXTRAORDIARTY, OR EMERGENCY NATURE:

THAT I HAVE NOT

NOR WILL & DE, SELAUASEO TIGREGO FROM ANY OTNER SOURCE, AND THAT THIS CLAIM AND AT-

"HUENTS ARE TAUS AND CORRECT.

(See true name attachment)

gEERATURE

1 CERTIFY FUNAS. AGE AVAILAgLE

NO. CHANCE PAY ACCOUNT AO.

DATE

APPROYEO

-2282

6136-1317 (code 3)

AUTHONIXCO SIGNATURE

" Poor: %.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF FAYEE

DATE

SIGNATURE OF AGENT

Feb 6G/R's/BF

:SCRIPTION-ALL OTNER'ACCOUNTS 1J. 93

20•38

STATION

DESCADPTION

YANCE ACCOUNTS 13-21

157166

CESTIFIEO EDE FAYMENT OR CREDIT

DATE

2/A5/36

'ER

SPACE BELCH FOR.

EXCLUSIVE USE OF OFFICE/SE FINANZE

38.34

05LIG.

HEF.

но.

SENERAL

ACCOLST SENSOL

LEDGER

ACCT.

NO

PATENT.

RECEIVEO

THE

DATE

RECEIPT FOR FUNDS RECCIVED

st0-00-vo7

SIGHATURE OF O PAYEE [AGENY

71.00

ANOUNT

jedi

CODE

ANAS IONS

BANGE TES

88

138

23.92

à 1821

136100

3

601.0 61:361317

3621.0 4/361347

144.2

CLASS

•68.70

: 0c

OR

DUE

DATE

2:551

2:5550

50125

DEBIT

CREDIT

3750

2,50

11000

PREPARÇO BY

DATE

REVIEVED DY.

264

navreus

7E700T-10 10

Đ 68-858

TOTALS S/5

SECRET 3/23?3

4000

1t0n0

(48 )

OVIER

---

## Page 26

1d-0d0d

PCS

to

Per dien/mise exp

Air fare (self & family)

HHE, POV, etc

TLA, quarters, ete

Education allowanco

$

998.30

2,257.50

7,547.76

6,662.00

1,440.00

TDY Madrid/Paris - reentry visa

Air fare only for self & family

PCS to Has - Per diem/misc exp

Air fare (self & family)

HHE, POV, etc

TLA

178.82

1,394.55

10,731.97

599.34

Operational entertainment

Nov. 65

Approved expenditure - LID

1. July 1966

Total expenditures

Less advances. received (bank deposit

$30,000;

cash $3,500)

Cash settlement to close A/C

$18,905.56

384.61

12,904.68

40.00

1, 600.00

$53,834.85

33,500.00

334.85

---

## Page 27

15 February 1978.

MEVORINDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Intervier of Mr.

Davis Powell

on the David Se. John Novels

1. On the noming of 15 February 1974,

undersigned Interviewed Mi. Davis Powoll, Currently

a Budget Officor on the staff of the Deputy Director

for Management and Services.

Nr. Powell is locatod:

•In Room 7C18.

During 1965 Mb. Powell was Chief of

Support of the then designated Nestern European Divi®

sion.

In July 1905 a contract was writton authorizing

salary and benofies to Mr. E. Howard Hunt for an assign-

ment under non-official cover to Madrid, Spain.

The

purpose of this intorview was to determine if Nr. Powell

had any Information on Mr. Hunt's activitios during this

period.

Mr. Powell responded that from his recolloction

it was Mr. Hunt's habit to deal only with the most senior

officer available.

In this case Mr. Hunt dealt directly

with the then Chief of Wastern European Division, Mr.

Rolf Kingsley®

NT. Povell statos that,

in his capacity

as Chief of Support, any activity undertaken to support

Mr. Hunt's assignaent to Madrid was

undertaken second

and thirdhand on recoipt of instructions from Mr. Kingsley'g

offico.. He further stated this he was never briefed on

the purpose of Me.

Hunt's mission and could add little in

terms of speculation.

Mr. Powell recomendod that. Nr.

Edward Ryan, who was

then Deputy Chief of Western European

Division, ba contacted.

Nt. Powell also suggestod that

Miss Marcha Seville be interrieved.

Miss Savilio was the

Executive Secretary in Western European Division during the

time that Mr. Hunt's contract was written and Miss. Seville

subsequently served in Madrid horself. Mr. Povell under-

stands that Miss Seville is currently assigned to the

offico of the Chief, European Division.

Lavrence J. Hove

---

## Page 28

14-00000

15 February 1074

I6 Fell teh 38

MEMORAMDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Intervior of Mr.

Rogers Brooks

on the David St. John Novels

the undersigned intervlewed Mr.

At 0930 on the morning of is February 19loe,

Rogers Brooks,

Contract Personnel Division; Office of Porsonnel.

The purpose of this interview was to detormine if Mr.

Brooks nad any information not contained in the Con

tract Personnel filo of Mr. E. Howard Hunt on the

latrorts activitios whilo a Contrace Type A employee.

2.

Mr. Brooks summarized his rocollections by

saying that.

although it was not comnon practice it

was not entirely usual for highly sensitive contracts

to be administered without the contracting officor being

made awaro of the operational objective involved.

Mr.

Grooks seated that he recalls some of the controversy

involved in preparing the contrace dealing with

the

quostion of offset and housing allowance, but he was

unable to recall any of the dotails.

It was Mr. Brooke!

suggestion thae the Office of Financo be

contacted and

that their contract personnel records on Mr. lunt be.

checked for information.

Lawrence J. Howe

---

## Page 29

1d-0d0d

14 February 1971

I6 Fel 11, Teche 38

MENORWWDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Interviow with MT. Raymond A. Rocca

on the David Se. John Novels

1. On the morning of 14 February 1974 Messrs:

Frederick Evang and

Lawrence Howe interviewed Nr. Raymond

A. Rocca, Deputy Chief, Counter Intelligence Operations.

The puryose of the intorvier

was to follo: up on infor

nacion

contained in Office of Security files which stated

the bellef that individuals in' the Counter Intolligence

Operations office had knowledge of the writing acrivitios

of Mi. E. Howard Hunt.

This belief was a mattor of record

in tha files of the forner Security Research Staff and was

aitributed to Mr. Paul Gaynor, now rotirod, and Mr. Edward

Sayla.

2.

During this interview Mr. Rocca was specifically

askad whather

or not he had knowledge of tho existence of

any for

of official sponsorship or encouragement to Mr.

E. Howard Hunt to writo novels to improve

tho image of

this Agency. Additionally, Mr. Rocca was asked whether

or not any assistance was ever requested of the Counter

Intelligence Operations offico to be provided to Mr. Hunt

or wether or not that staff had evor had any rolationship

with Nr. Hunt whatsoever.

In response to these questions

N=. Rocca rosponded "on the record! that he has no knowledge

of any such arrangaments nor ag any ¿ine was he party to any

assistance or any requeses for assistance to Mr. Hunt. Mr.

Rocca stated that

the parcicular section which he had been

nost acclvoly concerned in the past years was responsible

for handiing a variety of tasks categorized under the area

of "sotting the record

straight."

this senge,

the "inage"

nission of the offica was to countor misinformation: cur-.

rently in che media or othervise believed to be part of an

effort to discredit the Agency. Nr. Rocca fools that any

assumption that Nr. Hunt was engaged in any form of Agoncy

sponsored

inags activity would have probably load to the

conclusion that it was done under the Counter Intolligence

Cperations.

• However, Mr. Rocca enphatically stated that

this was not the case.

---

## Page 30

3.

Mr. Roces was thoroughly candid and cooperative

during the courso of this intervien.

le was unable to

suggest altornato means of attenting to deternino 1E

any official Agency

sponsorship of Mr. Hunt did in fact

crist. Nr. Rocea did venture tha opinion that he felt

that in all probability an official acquiascence on the

pare of senior officials might have been involved rather

than an official sponsorship. It vas agroed by all in

this discussion thae the nature of any informal support

given to. Mr. Hunt would be far more difficult to define

in the absence of any formalized agreements.

Lavronce J. Howe

---

## Page 31

1d-000d

6 February 197%.

LISMORANDUX FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Possibla Agency Sponsorship of the

David St. John Novels

The dotails summarizing an interview on 4 February

977 with Mr. Naltor Pforzale sot forth in a venorandu

curator, Historical

Intelligenco

addrogged to Mr. Stoven

Colleceton"s. Juin dated 6 Fobruary 1974.

Kuhn was briofed by the

undersigned on this information

during the afternoon of 5 February, 1974.

Later the same

liternoons at Mr.. Kuhn's direction;

a conforenco vas held

rich Mossrs. Scott Brockenridge and John Richards of the

Office of the Inspector General.

Durtos this conforence the speculation was entertained

E. Howard Hunt had,

been undor Agency

sponsorship with the knowledge of ir. Richard Helms in hig

pronaration of a serias of spy novels under the pseudonym,

David St. John

If 1t can be accepted ds a roasonabla

supposition that l. Hunt had some highly compartmented

fihancial arrangonent authorized by senior Agency officials

to write those books, then it is Ilialy that this

relation-

ship continued after

Mr. Hunt officially rotired! It is

specifically noted that ir. Hunt retired 30 April 1970.

Subsequent to the retiremont,

a David St. John book appeared

in print in 1971 and another in 1972.

These panuscripts

were apparently prapared during the time that My. Hunt was

employad by the Robert R. Mullen Company:

3, Munutos fros the office of there Counsel sake

roferences to a concern of Senator Saxor ovet an alloged

financial relationship between it. Helns and fit. Hunt

which continued subsaquant to Mr. Hunt's fomal recirenent.

Senator Baker has reportedly made roference to a payzent

of somo thirty thousand dollars with the pironahorical

corment that ir. Heins would aot have that amount of money

---

## Page 32

to provide Mr. Hunt fron his private funds.

No. Richards

or tho Inspector General Stiff opinioned that if tha

Agency had sponsored the St. John books, it was likoly

that Mr. funt had so inforned Senator Baker.

4.

Addlag possible weight to this line of speculation

is the fact that subsequent to publishing the last St. John

his old Agency issued alias, Edward J. Havilion.

suggostion is that this writing effort was done by Mr. Hunt

froe of any fiduciary relacionship with the Agency invoired

in the use of the St. John pen nase.

Mr. Howard J. Osborn, Direcior of Sacurity, vas

Bilofed. on the above by the undarsigned in the presenco of

Mr. Kuhs on the oraning of 5 Fabruary 1974.

LasTence J. Hove

-..euns

---

## Page 33

 Pebruary 197421

291

NEMORANDUM FOR:

. Ms. - Steven L.. Kuhn

SUBJECT

The David St. John Novels

-4-317191

ral 35

On 4. February: 1974, Mr. Walter Pforzholmer, Curatory!

listorical: Intelligence Collection, was interviewed by the

undersigned: concerning his knowledge of a serlos. of novels..

written by MriE.: Howard Hunt.:

This intorview was undertaken

at your request in an effort to determine if Mr. Hunt had

acted in any eapacity in cooperation with Counter Intelligence

Operations.

Ic has previously been alleged in Offico of

Security records that Messrs. Paul Gaynor. and Edward Sayle

of Security Research Staff believed that Mr. Hunt. had written

novels at Agency roquest and that this effort had been known:

to Mr. James Angleton, Chief, CI Operations..:? caligio

"?!

Mr.

Pforzheimer provided a verbal.summary.of.hig..r

knowledge of Mr. Hunt's fictional weltings under the pen .::

name, David St. John.

Mr. Pforzheimer stated that when the

first St: John book, On Hazardous Duty, appeared in 1965, he

undertook to identify the true name of

the author. Mr.

Pforzheimer related that he checked with a source in the copy-

right office only to find out that the true name was not given

on the copyright application. The mailing address given for

the author was checked against a telephone cross reference

dirsctory.. The address on the copyright application was

identified with Mr. E. Howard Hunt. Mr. Pforzheimer stated

that aftor making the

identification, he called Mr.

Thomas

Karamessines and related his discovery... Mr. Pforzheimer

rocalled from the nature

of Mr: Karamessineg" reaction that

ho had uncovered a sensitive matter of senior officer concem.

Mr. Pforzheimer stated that he then reconmended to Mr.

Karamessines that

"If the Agency is involved in this thing

why not see to it that Hunt leaves his address off the copy-

right applications in the future."

Mr. Karamessines reportedly

---

## Page 34

14-00000

accepted the

suggestion and Mr. Pfortzheimer recalls that

subsequent copyrighe applications wore submitted without r

the address.

lichin five minutos of the. conversation with-

Mr. Karamessines; Mr. Piorzheimer rocalls being called by

Mr. Richard lelas, then Deputy Diroctor of Central Intelligence.

Mr. Pforshoimer recalls the substance of the conversation as

being. "for Christ sake Walter, this 19 che first book to...

come along and say something good about the Agency."

not leaye the Goddamn thing alone."

3.. The undersigned asked Nr. Pforshelner, who to his

knowledge, would be in a position to confirm or dony whether

Mr. Hunt was under any form of Ageney sponsorship in his

writing of the David St. John novels.

Mr. Pfortsheimer replied

that he was never officially briefed on the matter and that

only Mr. liolms or MT. Karamessines could provide the answer.

Nr. Pforzheimer was then askod if other Nr. Angleton or Mr.

Rocca of Counter Intelligence Operations would have any

kriowledge of this activity.

Nr. Pforzheimer replied that he

doubted it seriously.

Mr. Pforzheimer went on to relate that ho was

occasionally tasked to

do research for Mr. Hunt.

He recalled

on one occasion being asked to resenrch the Indian roligious

Iites involving use of funeral pyros. Nr. Porchelmer

remembered that this thene figures significantly in Mr. Hune's

subsequent novel Tower of Silenco

which appeared under the

St. John pen name in 1966:

Nr. Fforzheimer parenthetically

pointed out the origin of the pen nane as being the names of

Mr. Hunt's two sons--David and St. John.

5.

Tracing Mr. Hunt's careor assignments, it is noted

that he was assigned to the Office of the

Deputy Director

for Operations then designated, the DDP/Operations Group, In

February 1965•

The first David St. John book was published

during 1965.

From June 1965 through September 1966, Mr. Hunt

was

assigned to Madrid, Spain as a Contract Agent.

During

1960,

thres St. John books appeared in print, the highest out-

put for any year.

Nir. Hunt published one book under the

St. John pseudonym in 1967, and one each in the years 1963,

1969, 1971 and 1972.

Mr. Hunt officially retired as an Agency

Staff Enoloyee effective

30 April 1970.

---

## Page 35

6. ' A check of Office of Security records did not davelop

of the David St. John manuscripts were

any indication

There is no documentary. evidence currently available to che

Offico of Security to other confirm or deny possible Agercy

sponsorship of the books written by Mr. B. Howard Hunt under.

the pen name, David S&. John.

Lawrence J. Howe

1.

..::

---

## Page 36

Copy are of one copies

FEbruary: 1971

76 Feld, Til its

NENORANDUNI FOR: Mr. Kuhn

SUBJECT: General Gaynot's Recollections

1. This date, at your instruction, I called Gen. Paul F. Gaynor

to seek his recollections regarding his knowledge of the writings of

Mr. Hunt and any official who might be aware of the circumstances

of any Agency involvement in that effost.

2. Gen. Gaynor advised that his memory is not altogether clear

on the matter, and that he was "reaching," but stated that has he

reconstructs the matter:

He became aware that Hunt, while in WH, was accomplishing

a steady flow of spy books, and that security approval was not being re-

quested on the manuscripts before submission to publishers. (He stated:

triat this actirity Continued later, as he recalls it, in CI Staff, and

agreed with idca that the volume of writings was sufficient to indicate

that a great of time was involved in Hunt's writing.) Gen. Gaynor advised

that he raised the issue "up front" on scveral occasions. . The icaction

he recieved to his raising the issue was that "leop your stinking nose out

of this business." He stated that he was lead to balieve that Mir. Helms

desired to improve the image of the intelligence profession and the Agency

and that Huat's books were a part of the program to du so.

He stated that;

he was never told outright that this was the case, but the responses he

recieved lead him to believe this was the case.

b. He suggested that tvo people might be able to assist in clearing

the issue, Ray Rocca and Walter Plorzheimer, both of whom were involved.

in the "image" maierials.

He stated that Piorzheimer seemed to be aware

of all the details = on an up to date básis - of lunt's departure froin the

Agercy to join the public relations firm, to the degree that Gen. Gajnor

gained the belte! that Hunt was merely moving his desk outside the building,

but being pair bj the same source as before.

le also advised that he kept

Miss Ethel Mendoza fairly curreni on what he was learning about Hunt's

actisities because she followed the case for him, and suggested that her

recall about what he had learned and when and what resulted, might be

batter than his at this dates (He also mentioned an incident in which Morsc

Allen while on a TDY was told by a COS to ist Headquarters in remove Hunt

from the Arer becanse of his direct liaison with the presilon of the contery.

and other activities which were confourding station operations. Later, tie COS

toil diorse to longet ahout relaying the message, wich the implication that

"rs was being diroced by higher authority in tie Agene; and the COS did dot

wish to ge: in tho middle by complaining. He said Morse rould erobal"

---

## Page 37

C.

He also suggested that another person--definitaly no friend of

Hunt--who might have some sceall or have picked up information about

the book-writing maiter might be Anita Potocki of CI Stall, formerly ol

Division D. (l gather that she did not have official knowledge, but because

ö! her dislike for Hunt, she made 'it somewhat her business to follow his

career. ):

---

## Page 38

14-00000

SH0r 1955

aORWW04 203: Deputy Director for Suppos

Raquest 2or Escoption to Storizion o3

2345-105 -

lo Ito zenorazoun contales a roconcendation 13 para

raph 4 for the anproval ol the Deputy Director for Suppor

(2) 121 Contreo: Exployee as

Dined to the

13 o sensitivy esol mneat

Gon hia cuavergLon Iron 3 BEa21 Saloyee on & July 1965.

Calamine MasseS 15, Soon 7(519, 3000 Per 2a0 F1

13 belor bald at the sue ato la bia prosent contract

231333.

Ii3 contrace movideg that ba gill by eniislad to

a lining quamara allomaco in contorance vied regulations

or enla organtailos apollaaolo to lis appolatal personnel.

Tho bagic living quarters allonares for Class II

st lora da Hadrid 19 33,000 Pr 2.

Tho house nica

has LOCated, Tith 3 030 1011 12950 12n 15 1079

1255 70 13 HOveRoaT 1S09, 3a3 20 2724 Tet 0 35, 800.0.

3CIM195 Ut11:2133.

Thereion

10N X00E 9100 be 7117 1.

31,900.00 795 992- 099r da 150

percent trixia alloyed

sador the proriston of re 43.100.

Ca a 75/25 percact

charlos rapis of the 50 sargent over the quarters allorace,

39 Bald 3o out 01 pocket 33,395:00.

4. Dun to the operational senalesuity of l

bardled b7

10, but cok to escord, 50 percent ahoya 1i3 guariors 212002009-

---

## Page 39

t20 75/25 parent corta da ha Jasa

airovablo costa un to so farort aboys his quarters altoraca.

151

Idrard. Jyan

AC$125 63101

Jastara Duropo Distaion

roccatendasion la faragrapo 4

is authorized:

Carlos Y. D27I3

su Daputy birector for atosort

9 40/ 1955

Dato

DDP/T3/S3:Da7is3.Powell/aJ/5189 (SNorS5)

Distribution:

Origi

--. C/VE

.2 -

SSA-DD/S'

C2.73/S$

113/10

13/2T

F3VE?

- 13/5

' ansela mes sia directoria di vitere

---

## Page 40

1d-0d0d

R0BV11L8

'*:

ATT

Chise, josiera Surcoa Milaion

. Support Stale

Compengation and Tar Diribion

Daty Status tocorts

duer 179080

13 Cotoco= 1955

I:: To data tears 19 20 2900=1 of recoipt 0. Peris 764,

Futy Status Reportg, for l

slice 213. 20D

4. wily 1965. Teeso reports are requilied la order to maintain

Lis leave cecount 13 cecordandy bila tea taros of parsargoi

ó(c) cl has contret end to propluda action to vichola pay in

accordance with requiranents of the referenoed beadies.

It 1o regrested that tols offles te advised so to

the reason ior the dalay la tha sumisalon or these tuby Statug

Roports.

This?,

fontraat Raployees Acconals Sactico

Agent Payroll Franch

70:

Sparer aton and tas Division

JOINION:

F20%:

Cator oi Sapport, is Division

Dor conversation

with ir. rosas Jorgesaideg,

ADEP,

thers 7111 3a. 10 Duty Stabas Roports (Por fôi) sunitai

¿o contine blo ray Jishout these coporis.

mis scould to usad as the authority.

Dayis S.

537911

Of S:3EO

842% 1853

SECRE

---

## Page 41

3 Gepterica: 1955

¡EARLDU FOR: Chiel, Contract Personnel Divisioa

SUBJECT

Geberal /*

- Supplacent

Specifle - argaapa Botttled "Drast

REPRaNCS:: A. OGC Optaton 65-2476a, dated 12 August 1955

Be Our Memo, dated & July 1965, Sace Subject

I. This office berein recommende un anuendrent to

Supplement dated 4 July I955, to delete parastapa?. entlled "Gilaat.

2. Its offtes honorledges the OCC option, Reierence A, which

determized

_may retaloluithout Agracy splary offset any futur

royalties eased as a result of bis literary efforts based on the fact

cover dosa not includa role or a writer.

As Subject's cover "actloities" lava been ofpicially clarified

as belug only a ligat ore of a ratlied foreigy Service Orficar 10s

walch tha Ageacy will be vasiog all cotitle-eas pogrests aud accally

po will recelve no funda fron any cover, tols paragrapo, which lo sisleadios,

has deal to subcs contre and it do karely reconcended that

It be deleted fron

_Supplerente

h Fuster, to future cases when a cover is so light that Subject

will not ba recelytas funda fron cover it la recourended teat no geeset"

parisapa ba locluded in Supplerenta or Costracta.

Attach=eat

Rei. A and B

see if

HILLIN R. CULEI

Chier, Corert Clatas Bresca

pe picture taler en

the loote

---

## Page 42

1d-000d

OCC 65-24763

¿e AUS 1265

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT:

_- Retention of

Royalties by a Contraci Employee

1. You have requested the opinion of this Office in regard to

the retention of future royalties which might be carned by

as a result of his literary efforts. We believe that he is

entitled to retain such royalties withou; an offset against his Agency

salary.

2. We have been advised by Mr. Gee Stevens, WE/Support, that

cover does not include the role of a writer;

cover for status will only be a light one of a retired Foreign Service

Officer. Therefore, paragraph 7 of his contract dated & July 1965 may

romain as written.

Royalties from the fictional works, that he writes as

a profitable hobby will not be emoluments received from or through his

"'cover activitios."

Roman D. Block

NORMAN D. BLOCK

Office of General Counsel

cc: Chief, Covert Claims, Branch

Mr. Gone Stevens, WE/Support

---

## Page 43

14-00000

3. AUS 1157

MEMORANDUM FOR :

ATIENTION

SUSIECT

Ofiles of General Counsel

Normas Block

Reteation of Royaltius by

a Coasract Employes

1. Referonce la made to the telephone conversation

of 25 July 1965 between yourself and Rogers C. Brooks of

thlu Oilice wherein badliground laformation rolaliag to the

sas discussed.

2.

Subject will'apparandly dovelop a cover as a wilier.

a fleld whoreln he has an already demonstrated talunt based

upon several publications. The objective of the cover la to pro-

vide a basis of attribution for some of his iacore. di se tirae

of the preparation of

contract, the specific

detail

of his cover was unknown.

Request your apinion in regard to the retention of

possible royalties earned byl

Jas a result of big

literary effoits or whether such income should be properly

offast.

Joseph 3. Bagan

Chief, Contract Persoanel Division

Attachments.

OP/CPD: RCBrooks/civ: 2 August 1965

Dist-ibution:

Orig &

1'- Addressce

-- CPD

---

## Page 44

4JIy65

dir.

Dear Mr.

The Unlted States Governaani, as represented by die Contracting

Cilicor, hazeby contacts with you as a Contraci employee for die uje

al your services and the perioriance of dutica of a confidential cature

wader ins followay terras nad conditions:

1. Compensalon. In full consideration for ine use of your serices

and the performance of soccilled confidantial duties you will be congen-

sated in an asiount calculated al tho rate oi $19, 330 per annum. In addision,

you are hurein authorizad legislative salary adjustmente, wisbia-grade

promotions and, li applicabla, a poat dillorential la substatial conforceance

with rules and regulations applicable to Covarnment appoinied employees.

Payments will be made as requeated by you in writing la an approved man-

Taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by this organizados.

Allowances:

You will be entitled to: (a) Living quarters allow-

ances in contormince with regulationa of this organisition apolicabla to

jis appointed personae!. In the event you are furnished quarters by the

Government you will not be entitled to the liviag quartera allowances berein

indicated.

(b) Cost-of-livinz allowances

in conormance with applicable regulations of this organisarion lacisciaz.

but no? limited io, a posi allowance, a transfer allowance zad a home ser-

vice transier allowance.

3. Isaial.

You will ba advaaced or reimbursed funda for travel

and transporta ton expenses for you, your dependent, your housebold

elfects and your peragnal automobile to and from your perreanent post

aí assigment, and for you'alone for authorized operational travel. In

addition, you will be endled to atorage of such household and persosal

ellests as are not shipped, in conformance with applicablo Covéramen:

regulations.

You may be entitled to per dles. in lleu of subsistence in

the course of all travel perio.rod bergusdar and, whea autorizad, fos

jou alone while on tarporary duty airy from your pormanes: pos: of

assignent. All travel, iransportalion add per diast provided io= undes

sais paragrao? must be proparly autorised, and expenses incursed horg-

muor 3re subject to paymeni and accounting in compliace wit applicabla

Government regulations.

1. O2a:a90nal Bx2e1333. You will be advanced or reimbiased funda

So: nocasuary 03ard0nal a5309303 Inclading, out not lilied to, enterzaia.

man: and lis purchade of information, so sgectrically approval by the Cov-.

eramani, Such lada mill De subjec: lo gaymazi and accounting in cory -

anco will applicable Covermer: restrilong.

5. Eszazed

I: is recognisal lide your iailure to 2e0321: 10= 0=

pea appropralia?.

---

## Page 45

ó. Bencilta. (a) You :ill be eniilled to death and disabllity benefits

equal to lose audiorlied under tho dederal Enployees' Compensation act

25 amended. China by you, jour heira, o= logal repregantatives under

thia paragrapi will la procesed by this organisation in accordarice rita ita:

procedures in such marter a3 not to impair security.

(5) 70: 111l be entluled to the continuance of pay and

allowances In a manne: similar to that ac: 10=üh in the Missing Persons

Act (50 U.S. G.A.. App. 1001-1015).

(e) You will be entitled to sick, annual and home leave

(including travel exprases incident there:o) equal to and subject to the same

rules and rogulationa applicable to Goverrment appointed enployees.

Annual leavs may only be taxes at times and places approved la adrasce b

appropriala Covertment representativea. All acciusd but unused leave

credited to your former account as as appuialad employee oi this organiza

tion will be transferred to the leave account established fos you hereunder.

(d) As a Government employee under contract converted

from stall statua witaout a break in serice, it is required that you contique

to make contributions to the Clvil Service Retirement Fund. Such contri-.

butiona (oresently aix and one/hall per cent (6-1/27)) will be deducted oy

the Government from tha basie compensation due you hereunder, i.c.,

presently $19,880 per annun.

(e) You are horein authorized to apply for encolinent

in a healta insurance program for certain selected Contract Employees oi

this organization, subject to all the terras and conditions of that prograra.

Il accepted, this organization is presently authorized to bear a postion of

tha premiun cost, you will oar the remainder. Your financial concibution

will be effecied either by payroll deduction o, by direct remitrace it

periodic intervala to be established by this organization.

(1): 11) This organization is authorized to pay the cost

of necessary hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness o= injury

Incuired by a United Statag citizen full-iime Contract Emiployee in Lia lize

of dusy shila abroad.

(2) This organization may pay certain necessary

costs of hospitalicacion and rolated travei expensas for illness or injury

incurred by tha dependenta of a United States citizen full-time Contract

Employee permanenily assigned abroad, while they ara located abroad.

It is underatood and agreed thai tha eligibility and extent of the participation

by you and your dependents in the above radical programo sill be la co.-

jormasee vile the ruley, regulationa and policies of tils organizatio. is

close at the time an illress or lijury is incurred, tai all ebima will 3e

submitted only to this organization and thac adjudication oi such chimes by

thiy organizasion shall be final and conclasive.

Class:

Larough your cover actirides are the property of the U.S. Covaranor:.

Procedurally, ouch crolamenis colll bo disel againatardants dro you

under cois agreemon: and dro actoiledged to bo paysiont be dia Ciovain-

mont himader and for fedeil lacoma is paraches.

ll care? endlessne

---

## Page 46

3. Exisidoa of Documenis: 15, in the performance of services unde:

tnia contraci, you abbinio fisa custody of Coverament juado or take ticle

oi record to property of any raturo whatsoever and shorever situste, which

property has ja faci beon purchased with nioniaà of Cho. U.S. Gorgemen",

you harroy recogalia and achno ludge is existence oi a trust rallionsala,

citie: express or constractive, and you agree to erecute thiever docu-

monis may be coquiroi by die. Governman: to evidence this Iclationinio.

Secrecy. You will be required to keey forever secret thia contract

and all iniormation which you may obtain by reason hereof (urlegs releaded

La waiting by the Government from such obligationt, with iull inovledge tra!

violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecusion under tha

Esplorag= Las, dated 25 June 1943, as amended, and othei applicable law

and reguiations..

10. Instructions. lastructiona received by you frozi the Gorginent

in briefing, training or oberwisa are a past of this contact and ara lacor

porated herein, provided that such insiruciona are not inconsistent vi

the tarma hereol.

11. Urauiborized Commitments. No promises of commisents per

tilning to righis, privileges or benafits other loan those expresaly stipulate

in writing in this agreement of any amendment therato siall be binding on

the Government.

Tera. This contract is ellective as of 4 July 1965 and shall

contique tsercafies for a period of tro (2) yeais uniess sooner termicated:

(a) Upon sixty (60) days' acial potica by either party bereto, or

(b) Upon acial notice to you in the event the results of an initially

required medical camizaiion are determiaed by tais organization

to be unsatislactory. or

(c) Without prior aotice by the Government, in the eveni of a

breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions

hereof or by your obberwise rendering yourgal upavailable for

acceptable service.

Subjeci to the arailabiliti of appropriations, this agreemen: may be eitended

upon rotice from te Coveranent

In the event of volubry termination on

your part or termination for causa by the Coverment prior to tas expiration

of thia agreement or aay renewal thereo!, you will not be entitied to retura

travel expenses to the Waited Sir'a3.

Termiaazion of this a3-eemend wil!

no: release you from is obligationa oi any security 031 you ray ba requisec

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

DHL

Coniracing Oilicer

ACCEPTED:

151

FINESS:

•º?4:0%E9:

151

15/

---

