# 104-10300-10162

## Page 1

1104-10300-10162

...... •

23 November 1563

MUNORANDLM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FROM:

Acting Chief, SR Division

SUBJECT:

Contact of Ice OSWALD with a nember of Suriet KGB

Assansination Department

• fried

1. According to an Intercepted pbone call in Mexico City, Lee OSKALD

was at the Soviet Embassy there on 28 September 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valerly Vladimirovich KOSTINOV!? This was learned When OSWAID called

the Soviet Embaady on 1 October, Identifying himself by sane and speaking

broken Russian, stating the above and isking' the guard who answered the phone

whether there was "anything new concerning the telegram to washington."

The guard checked and then told OSAID that a request had been sent, but

nothing had as jet been received. (MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The FBI liaison

officer, Mr. Pappich, told me on 23 lovenber that the Bureau has reason to

believe

that OSMID'a visit was to get Sovlet support for a U.S. pasabort or

visa matter [perhaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles/.

2. KOSTINOV is an Identified KC officer. He was & case officer in ar

operation walch 1s evidently sponsored by tha kha's 13t Department (raspoaible

for sabotage and assasination). This operation, which is controlled by the

F3I under the cryptonyn TUELIVERD, Involved a Cernan-national resident of

who was recruited In Europe, and met this year with KOSTIKOV In Mexico

City and shortly thereafter with a known 13th Department officer, Oleg BarKil,

In New York.

The instructiona given TUMBlEWalD by the two officers, (playointing

objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their Involvement in tho care,

left no doubt that both of then vere working for the sane KGB component, the

13th.

3. Of course 1t 1a not usual for & K3 agent on a sensitive mission to

have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy. However, we have top secigt

Soriet Intelligence documents, describing MilItary Intelligence doctrine, which

show that very important agents can be net in official installations u31hg 23

cover for their presence there some sort of ofen business: Vice Aùniral

---

## Page 2

13-00000

I. ENCHHEY, in & top secret lecture to a Soviet Military Intelligence course

at MIlftary-Diplomatic Acadeny, 1960, said,

Representation, TASS or Sovinformburo, can use their cover

certain agents bose particular activities officially assoctate

them with the previously mentioned Sovlet Institutions, However,

such non-clandestine meetings within a legal residency should be

restrleted to a minimm both as to place and time. Meetings of

this type should be carried out only in exceptional cases with

tested and rollable agents in order to avoid provocation by the

local counterintelligence cervice against the Sovlet Installation

being uned as cover. Such meetings are hold as a rule in the work

offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours.

It Is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the attention of outsiders, and that the receipt

and tranmittal of intellipence matters, properly camouflaged, be

carried out disoretly. In setting up such metings, mares against

tapping mat be texen.

persons outaide official premioes and during non vorting hours usually

algnifies a relationship between the two parties that te above and

beyond offiela? matters."

Also, such contact In offietal Installationa my be caused by the agent's own

carelessess. Agin Adniral BERNIEV speaks:

"Some agents, because of inexperience or becane of deliberate

violation of the rules of seourity through peculler pervonal

raahness,..., approached our case offleers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites, others telephoned the case officer at

his soviet installation and discused persone. contect artengents,

while otbers still showed up personally at the Soviet Installation 1n

order to contact the case officer."

I called the above connections to the attention of M. Pappieh by

phone to his FBI Office at 1030 hours on 23 lovenber.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

- 3-

5: I am attaching

1) a sumary of our information on KOSTIKOV; and.

2) all valid background Information now available on the work

of the 13th Department of the Foreign Intelligence of the KGB:

8. Extracts from Report on the Soviet State Security

Service (KCB), dated May 1903, based on Information from ALLADLE.

• Soviet Use of Kidnapping and Assassination -- Executi

ction, dated August 196

c. Soviet Strategic Executive Action, dated October 1961.

lennent

Chief, SR/CI

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECACT

SUBJECT: Valerly Vladinirovich KOSTIROV

KOSTIKOY, who was born on 1T March 1933 1a Moscow, Wea

assigned to the Soviot Embasay in Mexico City

Vice

Consul

on 19 Septambar 1961.

A fluent Spanish apeakor, he had travelled abroad at least

thia pernanent assignaent, vorgoyer, In 1959

KOSTIKOV applied for & vian to accompany Premler Elkita Sergeye

rich KHRUSICHEV's party to the United States as an offlelal of

the Sovlet Ministry of Foreign Affairy, but we bave no record

of his having cone to this country at that tine. KOSPIROV

served as an Interproter at intornational conferences at Hadrid

and Barcelona In 1958 and 1959. In late 1959 and early 1960

he attended Soviet exbibitions in Mexico City and Havana, he

is known to have been in Cuba fron 6 January to 7 March 1960.

The physical description of KOSTIKOV quite accurately fita

that of a soviat case officor who nearly a year ago met in

Mexico an FBI-controlled double agent.

Thie double agent

Sovlet ease officer in the United States has been Oleg Dantle

vich BRYKIN of the Thirteenth Department, KGB First Chief

Direotorate, oceupying the overt

position of translator-trainee

U-f- Secretariat, New York City.

BRYKIN was stationed In Nev

York-clty fron Deceaber 1960 to July of this jear.

Since arriving In Mexico, KOSTIKOV 1s known to have trevelled

threa tlaes outaide the capital: In March 1963 und again for tbe

fixst two weoks of September he vent to Tijuana, Ensenada, and

Mexicall, ostensibly for the purpose of purchasing cotton.

U,S. Department of State, hovever, has reported that during

these triya KOSTIKOV net local representatives of Movimento

Liberation National and Central Compesina Indevandienta, both

Large Connusiat front organizationg.

In addition, according to

TBI sources, KOSTIKOY was accompanled on the September trip by

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV And be contacted in Ensenada several

persons including Communist sympathizers who previously had been

associated with soviet officials stationed In Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, & PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was in close

contact with Cuban diplomats and local Conmunist leaderg duriny

February 1962 visit to Quito.

---

