# 104-10102-10087

## Page 1

104-10102-10087

LATES G10611

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

2 1. AUG 1375

ATTENTION:

MI. Walter Bldor

VIA:

SA/DDO: (John Waller)

SUBJECT:.

Documentation of Castro Assassination Plots

REFERENCE:

Review Staff 75/1696

1.

fer rereront request, we have conducted a review of our

Files on incidents and individuals mentioned in the report given

by Fidol Castro to Senator McGovern. This memorandum contains

the results of our traces on the alleged assassination plots and

the Cuban individuals mentioned in the report. It must be borne

in mind that our files are keyed primarily. to names of individuals

and not by incidents or plots, thereby making the retrieval process

difficult.

No project file bearing specifically on the subject of

assassination has been located..

lonetheless,

what follows is keyed

to the

chronological order of the plots as described in Castro

report.

A. Mid 1960.

Nothing has been located in records which

ties CIA

to this incident.

(L) Armando CUBRIA Ramos. According to CIA traces,

CUBRIA was a long-time sabotage expert and member of Castro's 26th

of July Movement until 1960, when he apparently tuzned on Castro.

le was arrested in 1960 for organizing underground activity

against the Castro regime and was sentenced to 30 years imprison-

There is no record of CIA contact with CUBRIA.

(2) Mario TAULER Sague.

He was arrested on 12 July

1960 in Havana where he was caught unloading arms clandestinely

Introduced into Cuba. There is no. record of CIA contact with him.

£2,

IMPDET

CL

BY:

059115

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

12072

---

## Page 2

SECRET

A numbor of the Cubans mentioned in

indeed employed by this Agency in tho fields

of intolligence collection and paramilitary activities against

There is nothing in the filos reviewed to substantiate

that their mission was to assassinate Castro.

Some of those

mentioned vere in fact involved in clandestine infiltration

into Cuba for the purposes of gathering intelligonce and

carrying out paramilitary activities in a March 1961 mission.

) Humberto SORI Maria.

There is a 201 file

on the individual.

In. November 1960 SORI, a disaffected Cuban

overnment.employeo; contacted a Cuban working on our bohal

nd auvised hin of his desire to work arainst the Castr

government.

On 1 December 1960 SORI was placed under house

arrest by the Cuban Government but escaped with the assistance

of unidontified friends: on 21 December. 1960.: He was exfiltrated

to the Miami area, without CIA involvement, on 19 February 1961.

Ho was met by a CIA case officer on 2 March 1961 and dobriefed

on his activities in Cuba.

A Provisional Operational Approval

(PON) was requested for his use as an intelligence source and

subsequently granted in March 1961.

He was met again by a

CIA case officer on 5 March 1961.

He returned to Cuba

clandestinely on or about 11 March 1961 without CIA assistance.

Shortly after his return to Cuba he was arrested and taken to

La Cabana Prison on 11 April 1961. On 20 April 1961 he: was

executed by the Cuban milita.

(2) Rogello GONZALEZ Corcho. There is a 201

file on the individual.

Our files indicate that he was

Secretary General of the Revolutionary Recuperation Movement

(MRR) in May 1960.

He was. granted a POA for contact and

assessmont on 1 July 1960. In August 1960 he was met by a

CIA case officer in the lashington area to be debriofed.. Ha

was subsequently trained by CIA in radio communications and

paramilitary oporations. lle was. infiltrated into: Cuba on

6. September 1960 as part of a CIA paramilitary operation.

was provided with funds, arms, and explosives.

In March 1961

he was instructed to step up paramilitary operations in Northern

He was captured on of about 19 March 196l and was axecuted

20. April 1961 by Cuban militiamen at La Cabana Prison.

(3) Januel Lorenzo PUIG Miyar.

There is a 201

file on the indivilual.

He was granted a POA for use in

paramilitary operations on 29 November 1960.

On or about

20 March 1961 he was captured and executed on 18 April 1961.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Our only

record of subje maico es haul was invoivod in paya-

military activities for CIA.

(5) Gaspar Dominguez TRUEBA Varona.

a 201 file on the individual.

He was granted a POA 15 March

1961 for use as a legal traveler to Cuba and support agent

in intelligence collection and paramilitary operations.:. He

was trained in intelligence gathering and communications

He was arrested 3 April 1961 by the Cuban G-Z,

together with 600 other prisoners. He was executed 19 April

1961 at La Cabana Prison.

(6) Eufemio Jose FERNANDEZ Ortega.

There is a

201 file on the individual.

There is no known CIA involvement

subject. A one-time Chief of the Cuban National Secret

Police, he was arrested on trumped-up charges in April 1961.

He was executed on 20 April 1961 together with Humberto SORI

Marin and others.

(7) Rafael DIAZ Hanscom.:

Thore is a 201 file

on the individual.

A POA waS granted. 25 January 1961 for

use in intelligence collection and paramilitary operations.

He received intelligence and paramilitary training. He was

Involved in the March 1961 CIA paramilitary operation and

was. captured by the Cubans. He was executed on 20 April 1961.

(8) Gabriel RIANO Zequeiro.

One Gabriel RIANO

appeared on a list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison as of

May 1971•

There is no known Agency connection with RIANO.

(9) We have no identifiable information or

indication

of CIA involvement with Dionisio ACOSTA Hernandez;

Oreste FRIAS Roque; Eduardo LEMUS Perez; Narciso PERALTA Soto;

or Pedro de CESPEDE Company.

June 1961.. Nothing has been located in records

which ties CIA to this incident.

(1) Juan BASIGALUPE Hornedo.

We have no pertinent

identifiable

information on this individual.

(2) Guillermo COULA (aka CAULA) Ferrer,

We have

no pertinent identifiable information on this individual.

(3) Higinio MENENDEd Beltran.

His name appeared

on a list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison in Pinar del Rio,

Cuba.

There is no indication he had any relationship with

CIA.:

SECT.ET

---

## Page 4

SCOMET

D.

July 1961.

in the report were indeed employed by this Agoncy in para

military activities dirécted against Cuba.

confirmation in the records reviewed that their mission

assassination of Castro. 04

was

(1) Emilio Adolfo RIVERO Caro. There is a 201

file on this individual. He was granted a POA 30 January 1961

for support of paramilitary operations against Cuba.

clandestinely infiltrated into Cuba in a CIA operation on

3 March 1961.

he was arrested on of about 9 March 1961.

of November 1972 he was believed to be held prisonen in Cuba.

(2) Adolfo MENDOZA. He is probably identifiable

with Adolfo GONZALEZ Mendoza.

There is a 201 file on the

individual.

An Operational Approval (OA) was granted for his

use in paramilitary operations against Cuba.

He worked as a

radio operator for infiltration teams.: He left Cuba via the

Chilean Embassy and traveled Mexico/Panama/Chile.

loft Chile for Honduras.

There has been no contact with him

since 1962.

(3) Jorge GARCIA Rubio Caroj There is a 201

file on the individual. A POA was granted 30 January 1961

for use in supporting paramilitary operations. He was

infiltrated into Cuba

in a CIA: overation on 3 March: 1961.

He was arrested on or about 9 May 1961..

Minors:

201 file on the

individual.

He was working for CIA at the

time of his arrest on 9 August 1961.

first recruited in

1960, a POA was granted on 5 January 1961 for use in para-

military operations.

There is no information contained in

the files réviewed which indicate he was involved in assassi

nation attempts.

Thore is a 201 file on

the individual.

ne...was recruited in 1960 for use in intelligence

gathering. In

September 1960 ho was trained by CIA in paramilitary

operations and infiltrated into Cuba on 29 September 1960, when

he began organizing resistanco groups at CIA direction. He.

returned to the U.S. in February 1961 for debriefing and

returned to Cuba in May 1961: In July 1961 he reported that

sabotage operations were being planned for 26 July 1961. A

Cuban refugee confirmed his arrest in July 1961. There is no

information in the files reviewed to indicate that he was

directed to attempt to assassinate Castro.

SED ET

---

## Page 5

: SEGRET

(6) We have no identifiable information or

record of contact with Jose A. ROSABAL Rosabal, Emilio

QUINTANA Gonzalez, Rafael RIQUENES Maceo, Or JOSe A. GARCIA

July 1961. Although CIA had operational

relationships with various individuals mentioned in the

report, over a long period of time and relating to a variety

of operations, there is nothing in files reviewed to indicate

that CIA was involved in the described incident. There is

also nothing in files reviewed to indicate that any of the

individuals mentioned were directed by CIA to assassinate

Castro.

individual.

(1) Tony VARONA. There is a 201 file on the

A POA was requested in August 1957 as a source

of infornation on anti-government activities in Cuba and

later amended for use in political action activitles..

le

and organizations he represented were provided with material

and financial assistance in promoting anti-Castro activities

in Cuba until approximately 1962-

There is no indication in

his file that he attempted to assassinate Castro or sought

CIA assistance for this purpose.

(2) Manuel RAY Rivero.

There is a 201 file

on the individual.:

A POA was granted for use as a political

action agent on 25 October 1960.

CIA provided support to a

variety of autononous anti-Castro groups, including the one

represented by

subject reportedly developed

a plan to assassinate Castro.

In July 1 This plot was not atclA direction

and no assistance was provided for it.. CIA's relationship. with

subject ended in 1967.

(3) Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango. There is a 201

file on the individual.:

Subject was first contacted in

September 1948 and used sporadically as a casual informant

on Cuban internal politics.

A POA was granted on 12 August

1959 for use in political action activities. He was debriefed

occasionally by CIA but after 1960 he was not used operationally.

(4) Francisco CHANES Armas. One Francisco

CHANES is listed as an official of the Cuban Secret Revolu-

tionary Service (SSR) in May 1960

The name of one Francisco

CHANES appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay Prison

as of May 1971.

There is no record of any CIA contact or

operational relationship with

subject.

S

SEGRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

(5) Alfredo Ruperto FERNANDEZ Gamez.

Subject.

traveled to Mexico, Brazil, and the U.S. in approximatoly

1960 as a Cuban agent with the mission of penetrating anỉ•

Castro organizations.

There is no record of any CIA contact

with or operational relationship with subject.

(5) Florentino FERNANDEZ Rodriguez.

appears on a

list of prisoners hold in Guanajay. Prison as

of May 1970•

(7) Segundo GONZALEZ Gonzalez..

He is listed as

an agent of the Cuban Revolutionary Secret Service and special

agent to investigate anti-Castro activities: in Marianao, Cuba

in 1959-1960-

There. is no record of any CIA contact with or

operational relationship with subject.

(8) We have no identifiable intormation or any

Indication of CIA contact with Roberto COSCUYUELA Valcarcel;

Orlando ULACIA Valdes,

Francisco GIl Cruz, Jose ACENA Quintana,

PedrO ASCARATE Carbonell, Angel del TORO Perez, Aurelio HERNANDEZ

Marnol, Jorge VAZQUEZ Fernandez, or Nario CHANES de Armas.

13 September 1961.

There is nothing in the files

eviewed to link CIA with this incident

One of those mentioned

• the report was once considered for use in paramilitar

operations but was not actually used in any operation.

(1) Antonio J. FERNANDEZ Rodriguez. There is a

201 file on the individual. A POAiwas requested for subject's

use in paramilitary operations on 21 September 1960,

roquest later cancolled and subject was not ultinately usod

in any capacity.

(2) There is no inforuation available on Juan

JoSe MARTORE Silva, Manuel BARRERA Lopez, Of AColio LLERENA

Morales.

G.: October:1901.

eviewed to indicate that CIA was involvod in:

There nored in this necdent

(1) Bernardo PARADELA Ybarrecho.

OuT

files

Cuban

2) Raul FERNANDEZ Trevejo.

Subject's

appoars on a list of prisoners hold in Cuba at Guanajay

Prison in May 1971:

6

---

## Page 7

V

SECHET

(3) Bernardo IGLUSIA Winter. According to a

with subject, was

(4) Ruberto GONZALEZ Gonzalez.

One Rupert

GONZALEZ, possibly identifiable with subject, was sentenced

to. 20 years in prison for anti-Castro activities in Cuba.

He was arrested December 1963..

H. Early 1962.

Although CIA had an operational

reporto shere it othing the he nees seriated to indicate

that he was directed by CIA to assassinate Castrc.

(1)

There is a 201 file

on the individuall

the Directorio.

Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) against the Castro government

inside Cuba.

We had our first contact with him in September

1961 in the U.S. and provided him with some matorial assistance

for paramilitary operations.:

His POA for use in paramilitary

activities was granted 3 January 1962 and cancelled & November

1962•

The date of his return to Cuba has not been established.

He was arrested in Cuba in approximately October 1962 and

subsequently sentenced to 30 years imprisonment.

(2) Raul CAY Hernandez and Raul CAY Gispert.

Our only trace is on one Raul CAY, indicating that in December

1963 he was suspected of being an agent of the Cuban internal

(3) Humberto GOMEZ Pena.

As of September 1962

subject was reportedly organizing Cuban resistance groups

among Masons inside Cuba.

(4) Jose Luis CUERVO Calvo.

In 1962 subject

was reported to be grand master of the Masonic Lodge in Cuba

and leader of anti-Castro Masons:

He was arrested by the

Cubans on 21 September 1962.

I.

13 March 1963.

There is no indication: in

files

reviewed

to indicate that CIA was involved in this incident

We had sporadic contact with only one of the subjects mentioned

in the report.

Although we had several contacts with him,

he was not under our direction and our last contact occurred

two years prior to the alleged incident.

---

## Page 8

SECHE T

(1) Higinio DIAZ Ane. There is a 201 file on

the individual.

The CIA was in sporadic contact with subject

from approximately March 1960 until mid 1961.

He participated

in the Bay of Pigs invasion. The Agency had no contact with

him after mid 1961.

(2) We found no identitlable information on

Samuel CARABALLO Moreno, Ricardo OLMEDO Moreno, Luis David

RODRIGUEZ Gonzalez, Jose Antonio LOPEZ Rodriguez, or Juan

Lucio MORALES SOSa...

April 1963. There is nothing in records

reviewed to indicate that CIA was Involved in this incident.

(1) We have no identifiable information on of

any indication that we ever had contact with Enrique RODRIGUEZ

Valdez,

Ricardo LOPEZ Cabrera, Jorge Carlos ESPINOSA Escarles,

or. Onorio TORRES Perdomo.

26 July 1963.

A review of files indicates no

CIA involvement in this incident or record of any CIA contact

with the principals mentioned in the report.

(1) Rene SIGLER-SANCHEZ. Evias. The name of one

Rene SIGLER appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay

Prison, Cuba as of May 1971.

(2) Jesus MONTES de Oca Cruz.:

He is listed in

a Connunist Party member in Cuba and his name appears

on a list of prisoners hold in Guanajay Prison as of May 1971.

(3) We have no identifiable information on

Eliecer RODRIGUEZ Suarez, Ibrahim MACHIN Hernandez or Oscar'

SIBILIA Soria.

28 September 1963.

Nothing has been located in

records which ties CIA directly to this incident.

(1) We have no identifiable information on

record of operational interest in Orlando Martiniano de la

CRUZ Sanchez,.

Juan Israel CAZANAS Leon,

Jesus Placido RODRIGUEZ

Mosquera, Luis Beltran Federico HERNANDEZ Gonzalez•

(2) Pierre Juan DIEZ de Ure.

There is a 201

file on the individual.

DIZ is identified in our

files as

a French-born naturalized Cuban citizen: 17 October 1963.

His file indicates

that he was arrested by the Cuban G-2 on

There is no record of any operational interest in him.

8

SECRET

---

## Page 9

NET

(3) Francisco BLANCO de los Cuetos.

Our only

trace indicates that Francisco BLANCO was arrested by the

Cuban G-2 after having-been denounced by Pierre Juan DIEZ

de Ure after his arrest, noted above.

March 1964. CIA had an operational relationship

with both of the persons mentioned in the report at the time

of the incident.

In 1963 and 1964 both persons made proposals

tO CIA tO:

assassinate. Castro but in each instance they were

told that CIA and the USG did not condone such attempts and

no connitments were made.

(1) Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar.

There is a 201

file on the individual. A POA was requested on subject for

use as an operational support assetrin an intelligence

gathering net. inside Cuba. We did not deal with him directly

but communicated through third parties.

In early March 1964

subject proposed an operation to his contact to assassinate

castro and asked for pistols; a submachine: gun equipped with

several su caliber machine guns,

a silence, 1964 CIA advised his contact to tell subject that.

and some dynamite.

On & March

CIA would not holp him in this effort. According to CIA

records, subject and his accomplice were arrested in June or

July 1965 and sentenced to 30 years confinement.

There is a 201

file on the indivzuua..

he was recruited in December 1963

to be a source of satelligence within Cuba.

At the time of

nis recruitment he told CIA of his' plans to assassinato

Castro and other Cuban government officials.

he was one of the principal conspirators involved in the

plot, together with Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar. Subject requested

CIA assistance for the attempt. CIA immediately informed him

that the USG did not condone such attempts and no commitments

were made to assist him.

some of those mentioned in the report

were indeed working for CIA at the timo of their arrest.

Two

of the subjects reportedly tried to poison Castro but there

is no indication in the files reviewed that the assigned

mission of the group was to assassinate Castro or that the

(1) Osvaldo. Valentin FIGUEROA Galvez

Our only

trace on subject is that his name appeared on a list of

prisoners being hold in Cuba at the Guanajay Prison as of

May 1971.

There is no record of any CIA contact of operational

relationship with him.

9

2: T

---

## Page 10

SECRET

04

(2)

There is

a. 201 file on

the individual.:

He was employed by CIA as head of an intelli-

gence gathering not at the time of his arrest on 21 January

1965 and was convicted of espionage on behalf, of CIA. There

is no indication in his file that he was directed to assassinate

Castro..

(sister of Ramon GRAU

aranted for her use as a source of intelligence in her

There Is a cur tale on the individual. A POA was

brother's not on 17 March 1961. However she was terminated

on 18 November 1963 due to insufficient intelligence production

and lack of operational security.cyon or about 7 September 1964

It was reported thatr

Jwas under suspicion

in connection with'an avurtea assassInatIon attempt on Castro.

However

was not arrested until 21 January

1965 along with her brother.

At that time she was accused of

counterrevolutionary activities and attempted

assassination

of Castro.

A separate report indicates that the Cuban internal

security organs had allegedly found poisonous substances in

her residence. There is nothing in the files reviewed to

indicate that

_was directed by CIA to assassinate

Castro of any record to Indicate that the poisons were provided

by CIA.

(4) Alberto GRAU Sierra. Hé is a distant cousin

of Leopoldina GRAU Alsina. He was arrested on 7. September 1964

for an aborted assassination attompt against castro.

We can

find no record of any operational interest in him by CIA.

(5) Alberto CRUZ Caso. At the time of July 1966

alleged attempt to poison Castro, subject was working for

another U.S.

Intelligence organization. He was suspectod of

being a double agent of the Cuban internal security service.

201 file on the incivicual. At the time of his arrest lo

There is a

San 1st a mere 15 no indication 2111-

Thore is no indication in

his file that he was directed to assassinate Castro.

(7) We have no identifiable information or any

record of CIA contact with Ramon GRAU Sierra, Reinaldo PIGUEROA

Felipe ALONSO Sertera, Jose Manuel RODRIGUEZ Cruz or

September 1964.

Nothing has been located in

our records which indicates CIA involvement in this Incident.

10

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SEGRET

(1) We have no identifiable information on

or record of

operational interest in Nemisio CUBILLAS Perez,

Angle Miguel ARENCIBIA Viran, or Rolando GALDOS Ranzola®

(2) Gregorio Reynaldo DIEGO Solano::

The only

information on subject lists him as a prisoner in Guanajay

Prison

as of May 1971.

Early 1965.

Nothing has been located in our

records which ties CIA

to this incident.

(1) Julio Omar CRUZ Cecilia; Fermin GONZALEZ

Carballo; and Giraldo Reynaldo DIEGO Solano. We have no

identifiable Information on and no record of operational

interest in then.

(2) Rolando GALDOS Rensoli. One reference

identifies subject as Cuban Army Lieutenant in approximately

May 1960.

July 1965.

There is nothing in the records

revlowed to link CIA to this incident in any way.

(1) Enrique ABREU Vilahu.

We have no identi-

fiable information on subject or any indication that we

had any contact with him.

(2) Carlos Vicente SANCHEZ Hernandez:

• We

have no record of any CIA contact with him. One Carlos

SANCHEZ was declared Persona non Grata from Miami in 1962

because of affiliation with Cuban intelligence.

(3) Julio RUIZ Pitaluga. We have no record

of any CIA contact with him.

He was reported by a Cuban

refugee to have been a major in the Cuban Revolutionary

Army until 1960 when he became a member of an anti-Castro

organization. He was arrested by the Cubans in July 1965

and as of September 1966. was believed to be held at La

Cabana Prison.

• 1965.: Rolando CUBELA Secades et al

CUBELA's

201 file

(14 volumes) is currently under intensive review

by a staff member of the SS and therefore treatment of CIA

relationship to CUBELA and the others mentioned in the 1965

incident will not be included in this memorandum. Once the

SSC staff member has concluded his review and selected key

documents,, we will screen and forward them to the Review

Staff separately.

11

SEGRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Mid 1965 and May 1966.

While some of the

individuals were considered for use by this and other USG

agencies, they were not ultimately employed by. CIA and

available records: indicate we were not connected with them

at the time the incidents occurred.

(1) Antonio CUESTA del Valle.

There is a 201

file on the individual.

Ho was considered for use

by CIA

in oarly 1961 as a crewman for a CIA vessel involved in

maritime operations. The file does not reveal whether he

was actually used but all interest in him was terminated in

mid 1961.

He was subsequently reported to be a leader of

"Comandos L", a Miani-based anti-Castro exile organization.

He was captured in May 1966 after being wounded when his

group attempted to land a team of infiltrators near Havana.

ClA had no connection with the operation and the file does

not confirm that he was involved in an assassination attempt

against Castro.

(7) Eugenio Enrique ZALDIVAR Cadenas.

Thore is

a 201 file on the individual,

indicating an interest in hin

In Apri. 1966 by another USG agency. His file was closed on

I June 1900.

He is identified as a member of "Comandos L".

No further information is available.

(3) Sandello Herminio DIAZ Garcia. There 1s

a 201 file on the individual.

The file was opened in

September 1957 because of his Involvement with Honduran and

Costa Rican revolutionary activities. He was debriefed by

a CIA case officer in September 1963 as a Cuban refugee:

At that time he claimed to be in contact with anti-Castro

groups in Cuba and stated that he wanted to assassinate

Castro.

He Indicated his Intention to return to Cuba Immediately.

We dropped contact with him at that time and never did have an

operational relationship with him. In January 1966 he was

reported to be involved in a plan by a Cuban emigro group to

Infiltrate Cuba for the purpose of assassinating Castro.

30 May 1966 he was identified by Radio Havana as a member of

a commando group killed while trying to land on the island.

in August 1973 an individual with the same name and

voar of birth was rebortedly involved In narcotics trafficking

In Costa RICa..

A cuban exile source stated that he beloved

subject to be identical

with the nercotics trafficker in

Costa Rica. There is no further information to substantiate

12

SEGRET

---

## Page 13

(4) Armando KOILRO Martinez:

Thore is a 201

Iile on the individual. His file was opened on 4 December

1963 in response to an indication of interest in him by

another. USG agency.

The relationship with hin was termin-

ated following his arrest in Miami in January 1964 for illegal

use of narcotics and possession of explosives and automatic

17 March 1967.

"A. reviow of filos. does not

confirm that CIA was involved in this incident.

(1) Felix ASENCIO Trejo. There is a 201 file

on the individual which indicates: that a POA was granted

on 4 March 1964 since subject was of interest to us as a

possible candidate: for paramilitary operations against cuba.

The POA was cancelled on 20. August 1964 with no indication

that subject was ever

actually used operationally.

(2) Wilfredo MARTINEZ Diaz:

We have no positively

identifiable

infornation on this individual.

(3) Lazaro Gustavo ARICES. Alvareze:

There is a

201 file on the individual which indicates that a POA was

granted 7 July 1964 for intended use as a seaman aboard a

CIA vessel involved in maritime operations:

The POA was

cancelled 8 Soptember 1964 with the indication that the

subject was not hired.

1971.

There is nothing in files reviewed to

indicate that we had any contact with the subject mentioned

in the report of were involved in the alleged incident.

(1) Jesus DOMINGUEZ Benitez, No CIA traces on

subject were

found.

It is noted that the above totals twenty-one. separate

analytical sections whoreas there are actually trenty-four

alleged assassination attempts:

This is due to the fact that

the analyses of the tro incidonts of 20 July 1961 have been

combined since they both occurred on the same day and were

allegedly executed by the same group.

The treatment of the

alloged June 1965 poisoning attempt is part of the analysis

of the mid 1964 incident because the alleged pepetrator is

related to the group described therein. The incident describey

in Castro's report as mid 1965 has been combined with the

nalysis of the 1966 incident since both were allegedly carrie.

out. by the same group.

SECRET

---

## Page 14

SECRET

3.

In sunnary, of the twenty-four incidents doscribed

in Castro's report,

the files revieved indicatc that CIA

had no involvement

any contact with the individuals mentioned

e Individu is went cones or as never had

contact with then at the time of the alleged incidents.

In

the remaining nine cases, CIA had operational relationships

with some of the individuals mentioned but not for the purpose

of assassination, It is notod that one case is currently

being revieved by a SSC staff menber for solection of documents

= to be sanitized.

This case (Rolando CUBELA Secades) was not

reviewed in connection with this menorandus. Of the twenty-

three cases. reviewed, nothing has been found to substantiate

the charges that CIA directod its agents to assassinate Castro.

Raymond A. warren

Acting Chief

Latin America Division

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1= SA/DDO

• DC/ LAD

D - LA/COG/Chrono

1 - L Therry

LA/COG/OPS/L. Therry:kk (11 August 1975)

---

