# 104-10006-10243

## Page 1

1104-0006-10243)

FROM: (Requesters ama) @

BRANCH

ROOM

TO

TUBE

ROOM

RID/INDEX

DT - 5

REQUESTER

DT- 6

KOURTER

RID / ANALYSIS

GT-7

RID/201

DW- 6

RID/MIS

GT - 6

R1D/INDEX

DT- 5

SURNAME

ATOMYAN,

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES

BADGE NO.

EXTENSION

DATE

INITIALS

SECRET

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

L.N.

PHER IDENTETINO TA (o cupation, sox.

CP membership,

SEX DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CITIZENSHIP

USSR

RESIDENC

Leungrad, U 55R

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL, CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

Items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

201 CONSOLIDATION

2. For each document to be included in the

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

(a)[ Consolidate into

201-

(b)[ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and

those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

RSSIGNEEM

YES

NO

BERETR

TRID

1 DESK

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ATONIAN, InU

ATONIAN, fAu

ATOMIAN, EAU

375375

37537#

375373

201-16460-2

(MGZA-1365) S

28 Feb 1050)

32-6-4-204

32-6-6-204

(MGLA -1365)

Thel 2

201-16462

(EGLA -124)

45EP5Z

---

