# 104-10213-10021

## Page 1

1104-10213-10021]

'";.

Stoker

HH/COS: 344-74

10 January 1974

MEHORANDUN FOR: Chief, lestern Henisphere Division

SUBJECT

: Salvatore Glancana and Richard Cain

REFERENCE

: Chicago Tribune Articles of 23 and 37

December 1973

1. A routine name check was conducted on Salvatore

Glancana with

negative results.

A check was then bade with

the Office of Security to determine whether their records

reflected that one Salvatore Glancana was ever employed by

CIA as alleged in the referenced

Chicago Tribune article of

37 December 1973.

He were advised that any inquiries con

cerning this matter should be nade to Mr. Breckinridge,

Deputy Inspactor General.

Hil/cog touched base with Hr.

Breckinridge who sald that he had received a copy of the

referenced article.

2.

Ne have developed the following information on •

Richard Cain, subject of the referenced 23 December 1973

Chicago Tribune article. Richard S. Cain las born in Chiego,

ITinois in October 1931.

He dropped out of the first year

of high school in 1947 and enlisted in the U.S. Army where

he seryed until discharged in 1950.

Following

his army sergice

he was associated with investigative enterprises in Mlant and

Chicago.

In 1955 he entered the Chicago Police Department

(Vice Squad) where he remained until 1950.

Concurrent with

that esployment he operated the Accurate Laboratories, a

private

Investigative business.

contacts with Cain:

Listed belox is a chronology of cIa

Fall of 1960 - Cain Initiatad contaca

with the DCD Chicago Field Offica and vol-

untarily provided information on the acao.

ities of Cuban exile groups in the Chicago

area.

hasin file

E2 IMPDET

CL BY:

054555

Bilked 0iin

SECRET

CAiN +Z7C141

5130175 06600

---

## Page 2

SENEFT

-2-

Be the Chicago field Office, to report an

June 1967 - Caln contacted Mr. Lohmann,

approach nade to his by a lir. Kroupansky

who reportedly was negotiating with the

President of Panama to Inyestigate communisa

in Panama.

Cain was to assist Kroupansty in

this endeavor.

Summer of 1961 • Cain was net in llexico

City by a CIA staffer, identity unknown,

purpose unknown.

Pros Panasa. He reportedot to finalons on

He reported on his findings of

attitudes toward the U. S. in certain Central

American countries and offered his services to

the Agency.

E.

April 1962 • Cain made an unannounced visit

to Agency representatives Winston Scott and

in Mexico Clty and informed thes

of an investigative agency he had in Mexico

(with branches in Chicago and Los Angeles) which

he used to provide police training to Mexican

Government agents.

Cain could provide no proof

of u.S. citizenship.

He Mas told by Messrs.

Scott and

Ithat the U. S. Aubassador did not

approye of Aserican citizens beconing involved

in Mexican politics.

& June 1952 - Cain vas deported from Mexico

for carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles,

Ispersonating a Mexican Government official. and

violating his tourist peralt by vorking.

G. 19 August 1953 - Cain was met at the Lake

Shore Drive Athletic Club and Adolphs Club in

Chicago, Illinois by HH Diviston staff officer,

and

the Chie, of the Chicago DCO

The contact repore states tha: in tha

distant tude cocain your like to more crarseas,

possibly with cIA.

It was pointed ou: to Cain

that his

current cooperation with CIa might be

of benefit to hin should he apply for employment

with CIA in the futura. At this thoe Coin worked

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-3-

for the cook County Sheriff's Office.

He

also was in contact with Cubans in the Chicago

area who vere involved in ventures which were

not completely legal.

Cain yas told of Agancy

requirements in general, and agreed to assist

the Agency by providing

inforzation on under

cover activitles of the Cubans, especially

Paulino Sierra and his contacts, providing

names of any Cubans sho night ba use?ul to

CIA, and noting in particular rumors

CIA contacts in the Chicago area.

of any

the Cuba Desk at Headquarters.

The 26 August

Information concerned the Student Directory, a

Cuban exile group located in Mlast, Florida.

The 30 August Inforaation reported Hiro Cordozo's

Interest in purchasing arns.

11 September 1963

requested

a

PCSA/CSA on Cain but there is no Indication

1t was ever granted.

12 September 1963 - Coin reported to the

Chicago Field Office information on persons

clalaing to be representatives of

the DRE -

Directorio Reyolucionario Estudlantil - who

purchased aras for the DRE.

Cain planned

another meeting with the alleged DRE rep-

resentatives.

• via DCD Washington

and DCD Chicago, got word to Cain to "get out

of the picture"

as soon as possible and to nake

no commitnents.

1967 - Tha Office of Securlty flles show

that the FOl In 1957 Inftlated an Investigation

on Cain because of alleged Mafia connections.

For this reason

the FSI recoamended that CIA

terainate its association with Cain.

Hexico City, then

15 April 1972 - Cain returned to Chicago fro

disappeared about I May 1972

-3-

SECHET

---

## Page 4

saying he yas going to Latin Aagrica.

Cain allegedly Mas involved in 1llcgal

International arns deals and on various

occasions stated he was vorsing for clA.

M. 16 Hay 1972 - An FBI agent in Mexico

Cley asked Mexico City Station for traces

on Cain.

According

to the Far an Eastern

Airlines pilot had identified Cain as the

skyjacker who forced him to fly to Honduras

on 5 Hay 19720

There is no indication that a clearance was ev

granted for the use of can by the Agency or that he receivad

any compensation fron the Agency.

We hare been unable to

substantiate Cain's claim that he worked for the OSS during

Orville Bathe

CAH/COG

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 • COG Chrono

- COG/0S

@- off.

- Originator

20e3238r.

DDO/WH/COG/OS: CHopkins:rb (typed 10 Jan. 74)

SEE:

---

