# 104-10186-10092

## Page 1

104-10186-10092

REPORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Mis intertal cosinn intranico alaline the Millcan Drienso ol the l'allel Bases munin lho maine or l

1. C'DC. JRA IS ANd iN 10 traumion or relation of "hich in ass mante lo an unauthoriard person

SECBET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT EpIdio INTERIAY GOmezans

DATE DISTR

NUCIA

Background Use Only

De Not Reproduce

CS C1-316/00503-631

3 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1

CSCI316/00683-64

13 August 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

D.. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEYALUATED INPORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OR CONTENT. IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

1 former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligene

Service until April 1904

Headquarters Comments

he following report is one of a series containing personalit

nformation provided by the source and includes supplementa

Information from the records of this Agency.

first checking with

this Agency.

The above referenced report should be corrected to read

that Elpidio INTERIAN Gomezanas is possibly the Code Clerk for

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico; not a servant. I

Headquarters Comment

concerning INTERIAN.

5

4I0N

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3

STATE

• 1 DIA

TARMY

REP

CINCLANT

I NAVY

CINCSO #

AId

NSA

1 NEXX

I OCR

FBI 2

I&NS

'Noro: Figid distribution indicored by " 5"-)

INFORMATIONAREPORT NEORMATION REPORT

IM/SA/EOB 1 HE 5.T

CULIA

g LX 2252

NO PROJECT (ASMUO/1)

BID/AN

CSCI-316/00503-65

OOO NO:MATING

POrAL WH/SA 8

(1), NE 1 (2), C1 1,

LUNISON A

BLS: LD: suk

OSSOLATE PRETIOUS EDITIONS

201-745393

---

