# 104-10015-10435

## Page 1

T104-0015-104351

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM & CANBERRA

CS COPY

ACTION, C/FE 6 (TEMPO FOR C/CI AND FE SLOTTED AT 2215-27 NOV 63)

DM

INFO • DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

> VR

gpfloor

REVIEW

24 MMI 13/6

CLASSIFICATION

CONDUCTED ON

Document Number.

-IMPDET CL BY 0 / 2208

APR 1976

for FOlA Review on

SE CP ET 272356Z

PRIORITY DIR MELB CITE CNBR 8592 RECORDS OFYICER STAND NOy 63 IN 6 9 438

ire following aotion 1g

RiDAT KUDESK

authorized: DE SENSLIIZE

REFS DIR 85859

signed!

CNBR 8594 (110 68581)80-12-01 CI/R+A

Mote:

It destruction, oite

reasons and coordinate

1. EMS OFFICER WHO TOOX CALL FROTE RFORMER EN 15 OCT 1962

HAS LISTENED TO TAPE OF 23 NOV 63 CONVERSATION AND STATES HE

ALMOST CERTAIN CALLER WAS SAME PERSON ON BOTH OCCASIONS.

2. CHECKING OF

FILES REVEALS THAT ON 9 AUG 1960

AMB SEBALD RECEIVED CALL WHICH MAY WELL HAVE BEEN FROM SAME

INFORMER• EMB REPORT THIS CALL FOLLOWS:

201-284248

"AT 2355 HOURS ON 9 JUGUST 1960 THE MARINE GUARD TELEPHONED

AMB SEBALD TO SAY THAT HE HAD A MAN ON THE CHANCERY LINE WHO

REFUSED TO GIVE HIS NAME

BUT WISHED SPEAK TO AMB. WHEN THE

9S 0M

D: 200-5-41

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUP

Excluded feam peronati

lowngrading on

declensifeatio

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN:: 9435 PAGE 2

ALS TOOK THE CALL THE MAN SAID THAT HE WAS "FROM ACROSS THE

KINGSTON HOTEL". (SOVIET CHANCERY). HE THEN SAID CLEARLY

THAT THE "TWO MEN YOU ARE LOOKING FOR ARE IN MOSCOW". HE WENT

ON TO SAY THAT HIS BOSS, KURDIUKOV, AS HAVING SECRET CONFERENCES

IN MOSCOW.

" AMB SEBALD ASKED FOR THE CALLER'S NAME, BUT THE CALLER

REPLIED "I HAVE NOT BEEN HERE LONG AND I DO NOT WISH TO WORK

LONGER IN THIS PLACE. CAN I TELEPHONE YOU SOME TIME?"

" AMB SEBALD REPLIED "YES" IF THE AMB COULD BE OF ANY

HELP®:

IT - NUIS

3150091

"THE CALLER ALSO SAID SOMETHING ABOUT 'COMING TO THE RESI-

DENCE OF THE AMB BUT AMB SEBALD COULD NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT HE WAS

TRYING TO SAY•

"THE AMB AGAIN ASKED THE NAME OF THE CALLER BUT HE REFUSED

AND SAID "THANK YOU VERY MUCH. I WILL CALL YOU SOMETIME•

GOODNIGHT®"

"BOTH THE AMB AND THE MARINE GUARD STATED THAT THE

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGREYN 94.38PAGE 3

CALLER'S ENGLISH WAS FAIRLY HEAVILY ACCENTED BUT CLEAP AND

AUDIBLE."

3. THE "TWO MEN YOU ARE LOOKING FOR" REFERS TO NSA

EMPLOYEES WHO DEFECTED ABOUT THAT TIME.

SECPET

C/S Comments: *Requested details telephone conversation reported in

ALUSNA Canberra Cable CWQ-015 of 24 November. details telephone call

of 15 October 62, and plans any ODYOKE (1) or

contact with Polish

driver and results such contact.

**Embassy duty officer report os 15 Oct. 62 conversation which was not

recorded.

CNBR

0592

201289248

SECRET

---

