# 104-10122-10152

## Page 1

1104-10122-10152

SECRET

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

20 JUN 1975

HEMORANDUM FOR: Inspoctor General

VIA

SUBJECT

: Deputy Director for Administration

: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

Operations

(Anti-Pinkerton Act)

1.

Reference is made to a menorandum dated 28 May 1975

captioned "Allegod Illegal Donestic Activities (Private

Investigating Firns),"

which was prepared in response to the

Director's testinony before the Senate Select Connittee on

23 May 1975 concerning spocific instances where the Agancy

has utilized private investigative firms, attached hereto as

Tab

2.

In conducting the original research into those

instances where private invostigative firms have been utilized

by the Agency,

specific attention was directed at the use of

private investigative "firms" and did not include the Agency's

use of individual private investigators.

In view of the above

additional research has now been conducted. It would be

appreciated if the following infornation could be considered

as an addendur to referenced memorandua:

A. Since 1950 the Office of Security has

engaged in a progran whereby a number of qualified

individuals throughout the United States have been

employed as independent contractors to conduct

background investigations on behalf of the Agency.

This progran, know within the Office of Security

as the Confidential Correspondent Program, 1$

anost totally comprisod of retired U.S. Govern-

The majority of these indi

viduals have entered secondary professions following

their retirenent covering a broad spectrun to

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 011018

03

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Include law, real estato, construction, and

private investigations.

By virtue of theis

former federal investigative backgrounds, these

individuals are able to conduct investigations

on behalf of the Agency in geographical aroas

which are remote fron existing Office of Security

field offices and also provido the Office of

Socurity with the ability to expand or contract

its Investigative capability as requirements

dictate.

Each Confidential Correspondent is

carefully selected and security approved before

any investigative tasks are assigned.

Primarily the use of Confidential

Correspondents has been limited to their con-

ducting background investigations with an Agency-

Issued U.S. Covernment credential, although in

some cases correspondents have been provided

with

HoweveI, in

a Ilnited number of instances, Individuals working

Independently as private investigators have been

enployed as Confidential Correspondents.

In view

of tholt private investigative positions, they

have been allowed to use their own "natural cover".

to conduct covert investigations on behalf of the

Agoncy.

This latter type of situation has been

extremely linited during the twenty-five year

history of the Confidential Correspondont Program.

In all such cases Headquarters approval was

required before peraitting the individual to use

his own cover. Further,

this type of Confidential

correspondent was generally not issued any U.S.

Government credential, in order to prevent the

possibility that e Confidential Correspondent

might eisuse such a credential in the conduct

of his own business activities. Our research

Indicates that the last instance where a private

investigator was a Confidontial Correspondent

and utilized his own "natural cover" to conduct

Agency investigations occurred circa 1969.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

b. It should also be noted that Robert A.

Maheu, who has already been the subject of

extensive reporting to the Senate Select Con-

mittee, was in 1954 operating his own private

Investigative conpany known as Robert A. Maheu

Associates.

is has been reported, Hi. Nanel

had been utilized by the Offico of Security in

connection with sevoral sensitive assignments

during the period 1954 through 1962.

While the revier of Nr. Maheu's Office

of Security file doos not disclose specific data

regarding any background investigative activities

which he may have conducted on behalf of the

Agency, it would appear probable from available

inforation that MI. Mahou had on occasion con-

ducted such investigations.

Mr. Maheu's file

does reflect that from approximately February

through July 1954, the Office of Security paid &

sonthly retainer of $500.00 per nonth to Robert A.

raheu and that following July 1954 he was to be

reimbursed

on a "case-by-case" basis.

3.

As evidenced herein and in the referenced memorandun,

instancos where the Office of Security has contracted with

private investigative firms and/or private investigators to

conduct investigations on our behalf has been quite licited.

Primarily,!

1 Further, your attention is

invited to a nemoranaun Ior Lue Director

dated 4 June 1975

(attached hereto as Tab B) which advises that the Office of

security has researched the future nead for the Agency to

rotels the logal authority to hire private investigators and/

or firns to conduct investigations on our bohalf.

As indi-

cated in Tab B, the Office of Security interposes no objections

should the Director decide that in the future the use of private 0o

investigators will be restricted tol

firas and/or the

use ce private investigative firas

3

SECRET

310p

---

## Page 4

14-00000

т......:

SECRET

in view of the above

no further research into this

matter by the Office of Security will be undertaken unles:

advised to the contrary.

Charles N. Kane

Director of Security

Atts

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

I - DDA

1 - D/Security

- OS Registry, w/o

atts

- SSCIO File

1

- SAG

1

-Chtono

OS/PSI/SAG

*jan (18June75)

03

SECRET

Ygro

---

