# 104-10173-10133

## Page 1

104-10173-10133

HOUSE SHOECT CONTITE OH AGSASGATIOUS STAFF M45

FILE TITLE/NUNM:P./VOLUM: :

1SAAGS, HAPCLD

CNH. 1-12913; Doc 33, FED 6, Li1SHC

51 0143; X7z 18129

INCLUSIVE

DATES:

CUSTODIA, UNIT/LOCATTON:

RnON:

DAT!:

TATT

RECEIVED RETURNED

70.04

15 AUGZE

16 72G 38.

TREVITED DY.

(PRINT NAILE

BETSY WOLF

BETSY WOrE

ITANATONE OT

RIVINING OFFICIA

скутер

NO NUCUMENTS MAY ME COPIED ON REMOVED FRO THIS FILI:.

---

## Page 2

FBI REPORT

DATE:

18 OCT 49

SUBJ:

PHAM DUY AM, was. ANDRE PHAN DUY

AM, ANDRE RAN PHAN, MONSIEUR. ANDRE

(REGISTRATION ACT)

CLASSIFICATION:

NONE GIVEN

FBI FILE #:

97-1184 (NET YORK)

ISAACS, HAROLD R

DF8 - 05681

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DFB - 0786470/

24. MAY 1951

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: - EUGENE BRINSON (INTERNAL SECURITY - R)

FBI FILE #: 100-376040

(NEW YORK)

ISACCS

---

## Page 4

FBI REPORT

DATE:

27 MAY 1919

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

AGNES SMEDLEY (INTERNAL SEC. -R)

FBI FILE =:

100-68282 (NEY YORK)

ISACCS, HAROLD

D38-05853901

---

## Page 5

DO ANDUN

Tó :

R. A. lackillan

i.D. Nort of

melosed herewith aro translations from the orriedal testapo

files of a list of persons connected with the work of the

International in Shins. These files are in possession

Turin, NY

and he is combing through then extracting this type of informtion

which will be forwarded to you as it is obtai

Jarm 62-269

Bip6.

Cs5 Anu,

Shang Jess 15

205-138

ETURN TO FICEROS SOMER

136226900 15-

9734le

XARZ -17549

Contoris UNCLASSIFIEd

5-5-195

ISAACS

see

22

---

## Page 6

15 now 45

Jennon angouy.

toms in S lany

= 2=

T.) FARIOS ELZAL

HR

u.S.

eatizen, born 1901 Arrived in Starghal Prom

the

States in spring 1926 He became a coworker of

the

Kergpsper "Aberd Neuigkelten". In 1927 he went

to peklag as reprenentativé of the periodical chl-

nese Courler".The owner of this periodical was at

that tine speciate was

arrested by harshall

Tachan Iso To for plotting agalost the governent

1n Peking, and sent for trial to Tientsin. Suddenly 1n

Apill 1927h1s case was adjourned. Barton returned to

Shanghal ard was nade representative of "National

News Agenca. Tbis position he held until August 23rd

1927, when he returred to Aberich There 18 evidence

that

he was an agect of the llIrd International, and

that he had during 1927 clöse contadt with the Sov.

Jet Consulste In Tieatsin.

Sar

Abend Neulskelten"s Evening News®

End of. 1931 Barton came back to Sh'al and got a job

with the dewspaper "China Presg"-May. 5th 19338 he

went to Canton.In Canton he was until his departure

for America, corresponding with f- ROVERS

8.) BUTSCHNAN Alexander-

U.S.

citisen, Jew, born in 1910 Arrived In Tokio

Hasami®

from San

Francisco June 8th 1933 August 21.1933 he

was deportet from Jupan by the Japanese police, as

undesirable allen and came to Shanghal. The Japanese

police

found several letters in his posession, 1n To-

k1o, showing that he was a merber of the connunist

party and had come to the Far East In connection with

the planned "Anti War Congress", whioh was supposed

to take place 1c Shanghai, in September 1933•

It has been

furthermore

established that during his

stay 1n Japan, he was in contaot with several well

known Japanese and foreign Radicals He furthermore

was in close contact with the Sovjet Consulate 1n

Tokio His present where about are unknown.

BARTELS, WOLDEMAR

German subject, born in Latvia. Came to Tientsin in

1931, and was in close contact with the sovjet Con

sulate there. In 1933 he moved to Shanghai,where he

1-0-578 p

was a great friend of the Director of

"TASS" W. ROV

ROVER He was also a great friend of. MA. ROW, who

was. In leading position, connected with the Sovjet

Information office.At the same time Bartels was wor-

king for a member of the Chinese Customs by näme of

10..s409,040 himself was a sovlet agent He ale

Por the soviet military shtached Fit

He also was the editor of the anti-Japanese magazine

"Far Fast Magazine". In' 1940 Barteis went to Toklo.

to present reliable reports, he is working

the Komintern.

---

## Page 7

10.) BENGER, HaTEY

VERENTSEV

12.) WOISCH. John Fred

14 Jon. 46

Tar haw's agency.

14-6-8

14-9-1

athens

Agent for IlIrd international je becare first no-

torlous due so his contact with • a roasIx sou.

reples, agent for the sare organisation. noisch

on Oct. 9th. 1934 for Trieste. fe had

come to Stagstalin 1932, together w1th

1'rg. Serger.

Berger was in 1934. approxinately 45 - 50 years

old.

according to a feuter cable, which was published in

Shangha1 on January 8th 1935, Barry Berger was the

leader oithe coonunist novelent in South Arerica.

On January 6th 1935; Berger was arrested by the poll

ER GER admitted

comunist activities, and were

ted fromBrasil. Berger is also known to have direc

•ted for

soze time

the comunist work in India anc

also in Chias.

Shanghal from

APer loscow in 1926s sepresentative of the llIrd Inter-

national for the Far East He played a very important

role in the so called "movenent of the Pacifio" In

Hankow in 1927. He was at that time seoretary of

BORODIN August 8th 1927, Terenzeft came from

Hankow to Shakgbal and handed over the business of

the"commercial association of the Pacific" to the

Cech citizen: -DIANANI. Both were good linguists, and

in order to cover up their activities, they

were at

tached to the newspaper New Shagghat life". Beetng

official agent of the Komintern, he was forced to

leave

Shanghal, then the Sovjet consulate had to clos

in 1927€

British subject, born 1893. Profession: Organiser of

commerce Nerber of the australian labor party. #88

a member of the "commercial conference® in #ladi

on Aug. 15th 1929. Fosch visited Shanghai to

gether with ERlIus and PG•HANNET.

Geroan citizen, Jewess, born 1907-lember of

of the U.S.S.R.as well ag the

"Schutz committe Nullang® Sbe came to Shanghai in

October 1930 and opened a branch of the

"Zeitgeist

bookstore"

where comminist literature was sold.rhis

financial

she got a

yer -1123

ng

to german polloe records. In the years of

e was a student at the loscow so called

n University, where she studled:"The prin-

cipals

---

## Page 8

14-00000

14.) FIOSCH 71lkelm

GorIAn clitzen, born 1897, dentist bember of comru

nist party Re arrived in Shanghal from barsellles

on October

12th 1934.in Deceaber 1934 he opened in

Shanghal

the "First dental clinic"together

with Dr.

". Dubowsky on Av. Joftre.In the end of 1935 be bo

ever

liquidated his consectlong with

his clinic. Re

left Shanghal la January

1936. losch was the leader

losch also

PER G.

15. GIASS; Cecil Frank british subject, born 1901, member of the com unlot

ipo: party and agent of the flird. International. Profes

pion:yournallet. Glass came in lay 1931 fror Durban,

South Africa to Shanghai. In Jure

1931 be took to-

16.) DIANANT, M.

17:), DOLSEN;G.Nº

the Yangtse River. In September be became a member

of the

"Conmitte for the protection of NULAiS

In Kovember 1931 he became Shanghai representative

of the "Anglo Asiatie Telegraph Agency" -"ANGASTA;

whose headquarters are in Harbin.

also known AS DIMANTI. According to reports, he 18

a Cech Anarchist. He took over the business

"Commercial association of the Facifie" from S.Nº

Terenzeffin 1927 when the latter left Hankow for

Shangha1, In August 1927 Damant 18 married to the

daughter

Of SALOMON BURACK, who was a sovjet agent

1n

1929.Burack bas been working in Shanghal for va

rious local firmg.

also known as N.von Dölsen.He came to Shanghal from

Peking in 1926.He came via Siberia to Peking:

He wa

was in Shanghai in close contact with the Nulans

clan and disappeared from Shanghad

after the Nilans

arrest.

18.) DRISEN, Ig

Or

Born Ladleen

14-163

В. Г.

1145-5

1956-92

"Far Eastern Association", as also for the Far Eag

tern buro of the Komintern.He as well as one var

ARgarita. uscius lived at that time as:Mr.&Mrs.

at that time the official publication

of the

"Far Eastern Association" in the english lan

guage.

---

## Page 9

• 5°

9.) DOELLIZ (TONIZZ

swald

Procinent agent of the llIrd International.

Came to Sharchal from Germany via Siberla on

• August 2nd. 1931. Posed as a

cerchant. Left

Shanghal on Decerber 26th. 1931 and returned vid

Dalren to Berlin®

20.

200'

EVANGELISTA, Chrisanta

Philippino Procinent render of the com

mercial

association

of the Pacific, on active

conuun1..ñag In Shanghal in 1928 on hio vay

Do. 1.9.

koscow During his return trip from koscow be

stayed

15th 1929.

over in Shanghal from June 7th to June

21.) YORK, Rosa

british subject. It has been presuned that she

1s a courter for the Komintern. She arrived in

Shanghal from Trieste on larch 3rd. 1935.She

returned from Shanghal to Trieste Nay 28th 1935.

Jewess.

22.) ISAAKS, Harold Robert

american eitizen, Jew, born 1910. Came to Shang-

hal from Manila in December 1930,and Joined the

staff of the"Sharghad Evening Post & Mercury."

A few

weeks later he changed over to the "China

Press",where he renained unt1l day 1931. In.

June 1931 he took together with the Sovjet agent

Frank CLASS a trip up the Yangtse River After

his return to Shanghat, he lived together with

Glass.In September 1931 Isaake became very frien

aly with Agnes SeEDLes and also became a member

'the "Committee for

'the protection of Nulang".

After that Isaaks became the editor of the

"Chi-

na Forum": He

furthermore worked in the "TASS"

agency He furthermore married in 1932 wellknown

and notorious

Viola ROBINSON, who was an active

member of the comunist. party In Germany. The

present whereabouts of Isaaks is unknown.

23.) KENNIG, Rudolf Herrmann

nill

German citizen, born 1908. Came to Shanghal from

Dairen on March

31. 1933. Re posed as a merchant.

In May 1934 he opened an office"Import & Export

de Left Shanghal October 23rd. 1934 via Dairen

for Berlin. He is strongly suspected of beeing an

agent of the Konintern

24. ) LEFRANG, Serge Norbert

also

arown as

nir

DUKPO. Came to Sh'a

from Peking July/1926, together with the secreta

tary DOLSEN.Fe remained in Shanghai until Sept.

1926 He left then for Peking, where he was manage

for the publication "Volkstribune" peoples tribu

July 1930 Intelligence came that be was in con-

taot with a comrunist agent in Marseilles, sen

ding literature and propaganda material to India

andColondo. Also that

he was very anxious to re-

turn to China? (The originäl test of the report 1

not clear who wants to return to China After hi

---

## Page 10

"Ted Fined

5, = 1-5098

5-122.30

N..5.151

Juker hauffu Bertening first half of June, 1951, Lefranf together

#.g0126-79%

were accused of communist activities. Lefrange got

15-120-760

18 months in j311.

25. 1 LAUFER, KUrt

Gerran citizen, he la however supposed to be a

Mestico or mulatto? Born 1907 .There

to assume, that he 1s an Anarcho-Syndicallat. He

9-17-71

came to Shanghal in the beginning of 1938. He left

Shangha1 10 lay 1939, destination unknown.

Genuians

18.

26.) MANAHAN, Djakinto

i nR

Philippino, radical agltator.Came to Shanghal on

October

26th 1928 from Domingo: - Ponce,

Bosimo - Barcelona He was a participant of the

international workerg conference in loscow in

1928. He visited Shanghal in

• 1929.

227.) MANN, TOM

"well known british comnunist.Came to China March

1927•Participated at the Pan Facific Conference

In Canton.Left for Hankow, having falled to orgar

nize a conference for the beginning of April in

Canton. Came to Shanghai from Hankow June 4th 1927

and left for vladivpstok June 5th 192701 he

also howa as 11ss

known as George Mortta the secretary of the

"Commercial Association of the Pacific Ocean*.

She left Shanghai for Dairen on January 25th. 1981

1929 on her way to Siberia.

29.) MINSTER, LERA

U.S. citizen, Jew; born 1902.Came to Shanghal from

America on Oct. 17th 1934 Als wife acording to re

the sister of I. MOLOTON He opened in

Shanghai' a Radio shop. This was to cover up his

assignement to establish long wave Radio Stations

as liaison between the varlous Branches of the

chinese communist party Minster left for Peking

on May 3rd 1935 He was in contaot with Joseph

30.) NAUMAN, VIctor Franz

on May Sth 19icdo0 7196-394

Australian citizen, born 1897. Medical Doctor.

• Came to Shanghal end of October 1927.End of 1931

n Pi

Dr Nauman was in contact with the Komintern agent

Oswald DOENIIZ, who was in Shanghal In connection

with the reorganisation of the

"Far Eastern Agene

oy of the Komintern." The predecessor of Doenite

was A, Ruega, who had been arrested:The present

whereabouts of Dr. Nauman are unknown.

---

## Page 11

310) PURS, DORIASO

ne

32.) RODRIGUES, Frederio

156-438-

j3.) RUStS, Frederto

Philippino. Fosed as Journalist, was however

well known to the police as Radical and Agitator

Care to Shanghal on October 26th 1928, together

with 20311a caraion and Djakinto Macaran. Tbis

was after fuerst roder, the secretary of the

Commercial Association.of the Facific had v1-

sited the Philippines.

Browder returned fronthe

Philippines on votöber 11th.1928 to Shaazhal.

Came to Shanghal in fugust 1929, arter he had

been deported froz Japan, for alleged communist

activities. He was the Delegate from fladivos-

tok. for the Conference of the Association of

the Pacific. Sodriguez left for Wladivostok.

british subject, bore 1892.83 a member and re

presentative of the "Australian Comerchal As-

sociation".. He was the british delegate for the

Conference of the fesociation of the Paclflo

346) RUSG, As

114-1-96?

fu folder;

MOTTE, aLta SaTuet HERSENS, allas Alfred. WULIEN

RocK allas Eduard BRIDGES, Alfaq Donat

BULANGER, alias

Talia: Deuntas arrested for communist actl

vitoo 19 Shanghai on June 15th 1931,by the S.

M. Po

August 12th 1931 he-was handed over to the

iRchinese authorlties.? days later he was sent to

Nanking for trial. Found guilty he drew a sen--

ténce of many years in prison. He had come to

Shanghai, 1b March 1930 from Europe via Siberia

and Tientsin Duting the first half of 1931, Rueg

was the segretary of the association of the Paol

fio 1n Shanghal. Right at the begloning of the

Japan - China conflict In September. 1937 he was

liberated by the Chungking government The last

time Rueg visited Sanghai in November 1939-H18

present where abouts is unknown. According to

some

reports he was In 1940 in Chungking and in

1941 1n

the Pollippines. n?

nitel

35•) RuegrA: Mrs:

sita

36.) RODKAMPE, Dschuda

meroia. asgociation of the Pacific, and was like-

wise engaged in work for this organisation She

had come to Shanghal from Belgium via Siberia

Là July 1930.

June 15th 1931 she was together

with her husband arrested by S.l.P. for conu

nist actlvity.She was handed over to chinese

authorities for trial.

allas Rosenfeldt, was connected with A. Rueg-Jew.

→ American eltiren, born in New York 1895. Came

31nning of:1930 froz America,via Siberia

to she

al After the arrest of Rueg he also left Sha1

on June 18th 1931,for Berlin.

---

## Page 12

-8-

37. ) ROBINSON, V10)m

36. SUPA, 18900

MR 39. ) SORDSCH, Richard Dr.

40. ) STONN, Lucy

MR.

49) UNDSCHUS, Margarita

1096-3711

19-6-92

14-8-863

American, bors 1910. Care to Shanghal August

28th 1932 tan

well krown as com: unist and

fellow traveler (Arerican Suffragist) Fas 13

Shanghal closely con...eteu

with Souget circles,

and

was a render of the "HOtS" Orgarisation.

alias Berd, alias FETROKOIS, Arerican, born 1892.

Bember of the following organisations:

Friends of the U.S.S.R. Protection comnitte for

NULANS, Hindustan Association, All Chinese labor

Federation, China league for Civil rights.

Came to Shanghal from Berlin,as correspondent

for the "Frankfurter Zeltung" in May 1929.

Forks for the Western Livision of the MIIrd-Int

ernational Supplied in Shanghal the money for

the local indian concunlats, which fact was de-

finitly prooves by the S.M.?. Her nala Job was tol

supervise the local connunlet labor Organisation

She herself got her orders directly from Kom

Intern headguarters in Moscow. From 1927 to 1929,1

the time she care to Sbanghal, she was working at

various places in China, connected with the eht-

nese red Arry. She wrote a book about her work:

The Red Army 1n China.Ihis book aas written in

- english, in 1935 1t was pubilshed in Moscow 1n

translation. At present Agnes Suedley 1s

In America From Shanghai she traveled to Moscow;

where she resided for several years alth her

Iriend,a lady, who 1s the editor of the Moscow

News, ln english.

Gernan citizen, born 1897, Journalist, came to

Shanghal fron Marseilles. January 10th 1930, toge-

ther with another Gerran by the name of WEINGER-

TAM. He has been reported as beeing also a member

of the commercial association of the Pacifio®

During December 1931, Sordsch was in contaot

with Oswald DOENITZ, who at that time also lived

In Shanghal and who.

is a well known and prominent.

arent of the Komintern Beginning of January 1933

Dr Sordsch left Shangbal and went to North China.

American, was living in Shangbal, In consection

with communist activities she visited Germany

during 1931 and returned then again to Shanghal.

September 14tb 1932 she married in Shanghai one

HAROLD, ROBERT ISAAK, editor of the corcunist

Journa

at the "DAH CHUNG? highschool in Shanghal.

• alias Mrs. Stuart, alias

Mrs. Lajo She arrl

ved 1n Shanghai during the first half of 1931

and called herself Mrs. Stuart. Under this name

she lived together with one

Isidor DRISEN, who

called himself Mr. Stuart He was an agent of the

Komintern as well

as a render of the association.

was his secretary, and

of the Pecretary, ha helped dia to eat hat she

---

## Page 13

14-00000

locol comunist Journal°Pan Facific forker" Naiga

rita Undschus left Shanghal on July 4tb 1931 for

Genova via Sues, after

the arrest of A. RUEG.Sbe

was scoording to reporta destined for Berlin.

Ne

420) RARDI, Georg®

allas Georse HEL (ROEL). Prominent british communist.

Member of the assoclation of the Pacific According

to records he attended in Shanghat the Pan Paciflo

Conference, which mas: held in chinese territory.

Durlag the time of February 1828 and day 3rd. 1928

he travelled together with other agnociation

(with the exceptiun of Fuerat Browder)

The purpose of this trip was to report to the" ISPOL

son of the IHIrd International.

43- ) HASKEL, I.A.

American. This man moved into the flat vacated by

Fuerst Browder-Bas August 1928 secretary of the cou-

mercial ass..of. the Pacific (Browder was) •Browder

left Shanghai on Dec.1st 1928,and after his depar

ture his former flat was visited almost dally by a

woran, calling herself Mrs. Browder, also Mrg. Morris,

also Kathrine RARFISON.Haskel left Shanghal March:

23rd. 1929 and sailed for Vancouver, British Columbia.

440) BASKEL, WAs:

Mrs.

allas Narianne ENERSON, lIved with the

son. Tale man was appolated in 1928 by IsPee perl

the IIIRD International as sentor advisor to the

Chinese communist party kra.

Baskel also left Sh'al

on Larch 23rd 1929, for Vancouver British Columbia.

45.) HERON, Alexander Viotor

British subject, agent of the Komintern. He

succeeded POL EUGEN

HOLSCH as agent for the local

Komintern office Hermon is an electrical engineer by

profession, was born in London in 1900. He arrived

in Shanghai from Venezia on January 26th 1935.

July Tth 1935 be left Shanghal for Marseilles..

160)" HORARD Harry Pakstone

A11aS IRAN ROSIEF, allas Trank CODVIN.Y.S.

citizen of russian descent. Born 1893. Journallet. He

Is awell known communist and suspected of beeing an

er : 5. 160.6

agent of the Komintern From 1917 to 1922 he lived 1n

6-50.362 81

Japan, where for some

time he worked for the office

of the "Japan Chroniole". For his communist activi

17. 8095 1, tes be was deported from Japan in July 1922 are

thus come to Shanghai During the following years he

was connected with

several newspapers, lost his post

tions however, due to his commnist activities. Upon

recommendation of the well known french Anarchist

and Radical Jaques REKIUES he was accepted into the

staff of the Kiangwan labor college*: He left Shang

hal in 1929 for Mukden, and became a professor of

foreign languages, at the Mukden University. In 1930

he was a postal clerk in Tientsin. In 1932 he returne

to Shanghal, and was working fôr kr. Powel at the

China Weekly Review,& antl Jap & pro Sovjet Journal

Allthough he was as

Into ag 1940 st1ll In Shad ble

present whereabouts are unknown.

---

## Page 14

-10"

47.) HANNET, Percy George

britiah subject, dora 1892, electrical engi

neer herber of the australlan labor party Ho

came to Shanghal from Fladivestok Re left shing-

hal together with Frederic ROSIS on August 15th

1929. for Wladivostok, where be attended an british

delegate tbe Pen Fecific Conferende.

48 EVERS, Frits

185-0-539

5-89-52820

Gerran citizen, Allthough born in Germany, he bad

•LIved most of his'life in d'usden, Dalren, Tsingtuo

and Shanghal. In January 1933 he went to Sucho,

where no got a Job as fadio engineer, for the

"Yung Ming. Radio Co.He 1g reported to stand as

agent In connection with the IlIrd Internatioonl

He received reports and messages directly Iron

moscow which' he handed over to various chinese

agents of the chinese corrunist party, who vial

ted him 1n Suchow. His present where abouts are

unchown®

These 48 Konintern agents represent the following natfonalltless

AmerICans 14. NºB -2, 6,7, 8,22, 28,29, 36,37,38,40, 43,44,46.

Britloh: 9 Nrs. 12,15,21,27:30,33,42,45,47,

German s: 8 Nrg. 9,13, 14, 19:23, 25, 39,48.

Ph1l1ppino:4 Nrs: 4,20,26,31.

Russian: 2 Nrs. 1, 11.

Cech

16

Norwegian: 1 NI. 3

Unknown: 9 Nr8. 5,10, 17, 18,24,32,34, 35,49.

total

48

---

## Page 15

"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

&. THIS DOCUSENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHISES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, RAREERS ON OR BEFORE

D.ITE INDICATED.

645>

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO, ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 4598

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FOR 17%0 uSE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

QUE DITE

5 shula

в так 77

6871

DO NOT REMOVE. ANY FAPERS OR

MUTILATE FOLDER.

catcas

101c

56/C

R. tauna:)

10.

10.

12.

13:

RETURN TO

1S.

RID/FILES

205

BORA

ATTIOUS

100.81

BOUTONS

76-743

BX 31

Sp 320169

RSTURN TO RECORDS CENTEN

BIREDLITELY AFTER USE

103 76-243 BOx 313

ran anglai 00-8)

DOCUMENT: 14-0889

FOLDER:

PAGE: -

BO.K:

31

SECRET

_CONFIDENTIAL

CIA INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 16

14-00000

COME IDENTIAL

INTELLIGENCF REFORT

Serials 10%47

Sourcos Russ1-ROT & isnorsty Groups

From U.S. Naval ittiche, Nonking, Chinco

ONI

1 215-46

BID

3165

Evaluntion: C=3

11 JuL5 19÷9

Set forth below is a brief history of the ill-Sler

Union in Shanghal, its

connection with other ninority

and the donta-tion of both by Soviet lenders.

The leaders of the roiling actively pro-soviet natier.lity

brue, m, or any spar, corer, an are

American.

10

Recent reports from this office havo attempted to sut-

line various activities of the Sovict agitation/propaganda

organization in Chinn, as dirceted by TiSS Shanghai,

The

All Slav and minority group organizntions in Shanghni which

are Sovict oriented are a possibly. Inportant part cf-te...

and & prclininary report ch

them follows.

Some years before the Pacific

MICROFILE

NOT SUMABLE

excellent opportunity to

as ahpropaganda innelun and an intchligence service.

The i

in addition to the fact that they were not at

Say eith Japan, had the advantace of a sly cassri to the

1n

the Russian

press (within and without the USSR) to the

effect that Japanesi,ovict ains were not incompatible

and the Japanose, being if not pleased nt least lulled,

did not interfere with the formation of various Slav gruys

in Shanghai.

Center,

These groups were later unifica in an Ail sist

located in the Soviet Club on venue Foch; the

Slav

groups maintained connections and a common prograa

with the non-Slav minority groups.

The Slav groung!

publie pronouncements were to the effect that the Slavs

wished to strengthen their relations with all ifrecdon

as its ultimate goal

a world union in which each of such

löving! countries, this union havinf frecdod-loving! couatrios

would be free to conduct its affairs as it chose and be

strong chough to protect thit freedon; it turned out, h:

'every

that the ill Slav Union was not

merely soviet dos

inated but Sovict-dirceted,

lonz uneritically with the

DISTRIBUTIONS.

XH2-15190

---

## Page 17

12/5-218 Sindhuettel

line zech repres i lila

1125/30 die du toi Albert unglei Ch

X. "Reitler fer-oriental, Lech

National Klie, eighie, Klin

Elch, Thunghii, Che

Da not semira

---

## Page 18

et ferente

Palude

Il 11129/51 Bakbling Hel 1d,

Russo Plich trendetep Cerche

Kuter a Pebil C'amm eill Marked

Ds not remere

---

## Page 19

silick as he the flies

# CitA SAR?

China

Leader in the sta

Ukrainian Fraup, Shary

anet. Crun

former leader in th

thung tai chung late

Taut Soldie

Вклан-

not herou

---

## Page 20

SUKA

CH.

CONFIDENT LiI

iestr...r.

becare sooner or later a front for a "hetever the USSR

wants she should have? line.

The sino-fussian, all slav, and ninority group progrars

In Shanghai, as elsewhere sre targcly directed, and cor

tainly supervisod, by TISS and VOis personnel, and

above, each of such groups is simitaneously in sitation

propaganda endentolligence networke

The agitation/prop

aganda functions

are directed by ROGOV, YAKSHiWIN, and

KRIUKOV: the intelligence functions

were rechlled,

tele one tara secretary)

and I.E. SHELESTYAY (both were NGB represent-tives)

The leaders of the various groups are as follows:

(a) CZECHS/"

Czechoslovakian Nati

Colonel Eat. SteiBERa, Chairmon of the

address Lane

215-218 Heähurst Road, Tel. 32681; B3jor)

onetime Czechoslovak representative IT the uis.

Rue Bourgeat

address 159/25 Livenue 7B. KIM, 941 Avenue FoCa;

Tel, 10181; Go

• RAChEKY, D533

Tel: 70671°

(3) POLISH:

818/B ivenue Joffrey

Ice 716953

RULERSKI, 1566 Avenue

Tel. 75851;

address 99/1

Ruc Prosper feris,

an active pro-Soviet Polish worker

HAKHUD NOT LECKT (NOVILE SKT) na GOGUL Founded tho

Russo-Polish'Friendship Circle in Shanghai, and later a

Polish Coumunist celle

Both have worked for IiSS and XRVN.

In 1946 they sent a, group'of Poles to land via Kladivostok:

(e) YuGOSTEr organIzed In strnghal during the mar,

1tg original stren:th mas 15-20 pro Soviet Yugoslavs; last

the group sent n

sarll force of Yu. oslave to Yugo

slavia vis Vladivostoke

Its present leaders are Captain

BiVOLIN, do ISTY"!

Xia, and Zod. FiaNSoVICH; addresses

(d) VARiINIAN

I CarThUK, 105 Love Lane; fru

VONSOYICH

now in Nankin: and believed to be working ir

the Soviet Enbassy®

Vado iTto, longtine Soviet citizen;

ex director of XR, address 17 Rue Poul Henri, Tel. 73665•

(e) BYELOSUSSIAN:

,1920 ivenue Joffre, and S...

7626%00

Bite get

---

## Page 21

He net sensorel

Chura

Leaderof the Shangha

Alket Raiglai, Chi

Leader af Kumania janen

I 1/212 tualagetle

Manthe Ch

do not reme

---

## Page 22

14-00000

it Licen

8. 1. Yansentates 229-Henquill

Secrete K

Tagethe with burther Yarsulate

Leaders in Lovet-crintid Freik

* Trachoic Churt he at Ninking,

Back heeled and wife

were leadere in the savert dren

French Sheng

Aw. Lia monCultural Cruncillor

Hinking Chin

Lender of the Soviet

Сплута вівтр справ не во ку

Into notremore!

---

## Page 23

sert 11 Cister Kel

Mumdini, Cleia

preca annichi dipinti cosat in

Cline

Conimitter.

¡Columbiale Minghai Chisa

Leader of German democrate

Ernest "Sunte Ili ai, Chine

Leader af the pre Sorit fiee

тан Сты вари Co Cnneck

Fan Sostian roadcant. out 2207

---

## Page 24

Subjeets- CHINi;

Shenchul - illoslay and Minority Group

organiantions, Soviet-oriented, in.

in flinduds Tnu: STEFESNO, lender of Shanghal

Rumanian Crunistsy

129/17 Arenue Hals;

ilhort (lender of Rumanian Jewish Anti-fascist rcfugces) y

I. Duvi, address unknown, /t

(3) IT. LING InU DOULICCI,

12:8 Ruc Infayette.

Italian roup Connunfsts wore connected with the SoS. CONTI

Shanghai; A.C. NICQLACHIS 468 ivenue Joffre.

a now a cultural Counscllo

in

noo

PAIKHODKO; and Dig Led'anCuWliEg-175 Rue Mayon, Tel,

: 78064.

Mareseag

Tel. 76535;

253 Ruo

raid Thu Patetry

Inpossiblo to identify because addresses unknown and names

Catersar

address unknowng and possibly

(1) NORWEGIANT neare resent

little or no activity.

Government in Chinsi; Ro GARRiATOLis

1331 Fushing,

79034 (monter of Spanish Rerublican Conuittee); E.. PUNGKHANER,

address unkncin.

(2) GETAN:

BREDELUS CH

Columbia foal,

Tel.

23351 Frater

* the German denocratio

troup, closely connected with i.

ShUN and (fou, BLU ENBERG) :

Ernest SWiStER, leader of the pro-Sovict frec Germin grou

German Communists whe bronsenster over: XRVN.)

rotter anager of the icerican prisonmant coon kosi

(With SHUSTE? were cognected Frit

(0) HERICAN:

Joactual group exists.

the

From 1935 -40

sovicts regarded as synpathetic to them und as

Edear StOlnna Loulso

potentially or really concretings, conov (who has santo..

STRONG, Harold ISinidi, and George

Decome a Soviet citizen.)

Comments of the alleged CZECH loaders, RiCHINSEY and.

TECHON DUCHEN are kaon to

this spice to hive fong beon

figurs

active pro sovist propagandists ant flold workorg; the

chairaan of the i1l

• Slav Undon in Shangh=de

of the POLISA, TO:OSZEISKI (no

151

---

## Page 25

CONFIDENRIL

"Subjects CHiNi; Shangha - All-slav and inority Group

Organiantions, Sovict oriented, 1n.

TOM SHEVSKY, who 13

the

londer of the inti-sovict Pollsh

Sroup in Shanghal), NO:/ELECKI/NOVILITSKI,

und GOGUs are

knom to have been active pro- Soviet workers

in tho Fblish

colony, Inducing Shenghai Polos to becone Soviet or New

Polish

citizens; hewever, GOGUL departed Shanghal for Warsaw

In December 146.

Of the

YUGOSLAV, TSIVITANICH IS beLLOyed

CIVITAN'A

to have been a Yugoslav ropresentative to the All Slav Unlon

of the URiINIAN, KLINENKO is be

Slav Union yoar.

of the BYELORUSSIaNg both KADYSH and

URSiCH have

been carried as the Byclorussinn representatives

Eo the ill Slav Union.

of the RULiNIAN, STEriESKO and

GUPESSHIEIN

wore reported a ycar no no working together to!

form a Sovict-Rumanion Friendship Society and a lunantan

Communist colle

DENTICCI has boon carried for some timo as :

the lendor of the ITALIAN Comnunist groupe

Unspecified

roports havo given tho YANNOULITOS brothorg as lenders in

the pro-Sovict GREEK groupe

or the FRench,

this is the

socond: time within & month. that sources have given GROSBOIS

solde of e on le it mal sinkin

SHIKIS®

FORTUGESE

FOGREBETSKY-MENEZES was previbusly known as

PROGESETSKY pretending to be a Portugese; sources say that

ho Is half Portugese.

Of the FINN, Ejalnar FRUNDI 1s

personally known tr

this office; as of & year ago

afraid for his lifo if the Sovicts were to set hold of him;

possibly things have changede

Nono of the NORVEGIAN oT

SPiNTSY leaders can be identlizeu.

The GERiliN cannot be

and the status of the AlBRICAN group 1s

identified as sue su

sobewhat speclal.

for instance, tokes the most

and Miss

or elscwhere in Chine working patently for Sovict intcrests.

Investigation will continue, and further reports will be

madee

CONFIDENTIAX

---

## Page 26

_"ES" RECORD MATERIAl;

Accoptance

or this

document by

YOU constitutes YOUR

* certlilcation

les use Is for OFFICIAL BUSINESS ONLY

THIS: DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU

2 RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO THE RI/ARCHIVES.

1232 RES BLDG ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED:

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 2471. 3

susan on.

94 DOSNOT REA

179a/os

LOVE DATE

82 0C1 265

42008.1965

ah NUV 196

1 2 NOK 1965-

SRS

3/01 g

A. Zimam 3541-II

RikE 2300L

Rist/cE

CAR

ISAACS

;.

RidE- GATO

flith

DINS

8J.

RETURN 50

"g.

Fais

/ RI/ARCRIVES

RECORDS CTR

JOB NO. 5715

PACE →6

79805

FILE NO. Wash - SI= Op-43

DOCUMENT: - 3Z

FOLDER: it

PAGE:.

BOX :

---

## Page 27

37 Marcia 294,5

Tos Iloutumunt Colonel ROGER A. PPA!T

Pross john I. Cocdireton

Bubjoots HAROLD ROBIE ISAAES

itidapi4a6. 500080i 60d Dirt:

ossin 39040 2e ficate deceas

she ass

HAROLD ROSSi ISAACS gutto mall a cranides, ant bao the fallonde oberations

to make condoming it. ISNACS!

Tuttin

MATOLD SOBATT ISAACS dO about 95 Joura of ago. le attondod Caluablo:

Unlvarsity, and rocolrod tho ducrue of doll. thero 1n 1930. He la the son of

an orthoriar sorloh norahunt; iio 1s vary woalthy, and iho has alave supported

HAroLD, even things ho did not epmore of the radioal tons that HABI agrassed

đn the 1930!8.

InvoLo went to chim inodlatal altar praduation oa calubla, partly,

atleast, out of a desiro to des atrango parte or the tarla red to coperlene:

adventure," He wont out by way of llamst, and stored emy sar part or thie

royal - altior botmaen si Pranoloco and Moralalu, on botr Monately sod

shantial → it, RATso dogs not iceber milei, angiray, thie was past as the

"adventuro. "

and a very interesting pardon. its mo a Lordot, but not at all a Conundst.

HAROLD too% a trip up the tengtoo with Guse da 1930 or 1931. Al about this tim,

HAROLD bocame a carrert to proteston, partly, de least, under Guisis incinsisco.

He felt that neuffertig hurrity required a "rovolution" to set thinge strilebt.

corantan was too organdied, and lAT tas a carpluto invaullet, and raisted

orat edit in oration, vote a darenta, end es erased prod ser!!

$°4a popot, popa do 4.00

---

## Page 28

it piercis die

Mo rao, 2i10 JABOLI, A aldogod latalloctua Tato staso probablo took placo

1n. 19570 - 1104 18 0, Brout triand al AGASS SEDIT, tho author of to fattio Hymn

El cine end of oubor broic doulses rita tha Calnese Ferolution, - mcio

11A0 oraunizatlon cullad lao Chine Load for CIvil Biehta mes formod about

25520 JIG GI'Ii Muo tie bual of this for Gestral Guina, and Dr. A CHIL (lates

Chinus, sut see do to hahtnitoa) was the houd of it for barth China, It was at

thit tim secrehery Guncral of the inadends Sirlos. YUG wes Doon a886881ntod

Dava an entrustentio renos or to Cide Loasuo les Girl Rights, and in tha.

atrosphere er tumoll, after the kling ar tune, men all terroto mere mador:

attach br the luauntan, WholD bose the odstor and publisber of tho China Porn

¿ pagzine but publiched a miber a controveralal entscles To masastroines d

protoctod by the funt that the editor was an Anerican, and therafore hed etra

torsortal robin. Vet the pazine no rogerded as e hem in the Resha by line

once too wee at that to derden Coal caner shall Tere to

variqua controversdeo a te petting shop ra broken up by fundian etrangero

Lean; tim into verg rosued to the mazing but he contind publication for soo

tims, end arauscled the copter out to the oubtertbers

2-đe 2923 or 2934, TAGS bid a Bett ith MAS SUDS%, T was an 12002081001

¡sit, ond thoratoro enpoctally bitter. IS/ACs and blo wife loft shanchat aster

tils, and moved to tentas..

Thore he acquired & Chinese tranistor naned ITU, and

thiero he contiod doss do write his book, The Trarity of the Ohireso Revolution.

"I1s tock "alis the stallich to the masts and shots that they were sossieg.

aron! with a sitution 1n China which they all not understand. Very any poople

pho drie mind the base comalrior 1e areallar.

---

## Page 29

-------

sili 538 antidi, aid invili an ils nilo esturnod to the United States

aboist April eT say 1935, Inodlotily after Eblo, ISCS MAGo a Jold trip to

Oblo, Horay, to seo his hero, undi ERIsti, uba ma jiving thero at that tina.

Il Has on this vocasion thst hi mist lara cadertaken to translito mussirla boats,

Either Franca:: ISNCS then rotured lü fee larts, and est to work for too

HAVAS los ironey onco sore.

At dosa dies li: the Jato 195083, bo Docano Inicrodhoi 1a lies tart pailtior;

and he worted herd IT NOiAN sias.

Dy 1940, bonesar, la bucano disputad idth liar torti palitics, ind becaus

Intersited la 180 sar, and In bourgeade 218e-4 Ee and bia safe had a baby at

about Abdo ties (thats (irat), ani ISidos founi ho could site sadio acripte and

Let good sony for then, Up to Illu, ha bed bean Living eblarly ass his cather,

but frais 1940 un, he bogun to sake manito In 1947, he did a peport to the Hatterin»

for CIS.

soon astor thiabe jalnod the stall of Here joel, and 1a 1941, zas sent to Dumpling

by that aspirin. Toro sunt bure boen a oistuin anant of troublo la corniscina

tha Calrione Gentral Governent that IStos lud reaily changed sinco the ald dar?

La sha guat, hat thịo coarlentlon vas endeally secamillabod, or Islass mould not

haya received persistas frau the Cline Coverint to go to calea.

ISAROS 1o a Tu mart sinn indoedo Fe lors a lot about Cita, sui i irasis a.

lot about poopi. In general.

deplantic nos tier be ves toa roars ago.

---

## Page 30

SEC.:=T-.

3P

(WHEN MILFO IM)

DUCEMENT

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

MIE ROFILE

STRUCTIONS: Uan elicor designations In, la "TO" columa Mumber each commeal lo correspond tith to sunl

aim a Use seross the sheet under soch comment Each ottkes abould date and' Intrial (choch mars inmilicient) l

Thin Rouday and Recard short should NOT ho remoted troze the anachod RECORD document.

FROM:

RIl

TO

RI/AN

ROOM

NO

DOCUMENT MUME

DATE:

NOT SUITABLE FOR.

MICKUP -12913

OFFICER'S

CORWARDRO

INITIALS

117

JUN is:

1061: I

COMMENTS

NOTE: I a ropy or altachments are resood in

tachod document, note the location of the copy end

meie thoroon.

l this RECORD COPY 19. A: 10' g

the files at the Dosk, call the Central Fle Sectio.

magent loan.

WE/a

Caller

chicked hy sie/cE/@'Grinne: f

CHAPEN "ROM PIO

RI (AN)

VV

COPY DETAONED

CHARGED FROM PRI

mames machel

flesse indef an

special - Thanks

Ka-chine.

WE/ PRalle

FC/China

CH

7 OC1

FUCk 15,99

FILE TITLE

Told miel Dutie genes Suits

CHARGED FROM RID/FI

FILE NUMBER

Pitici

RIIF:

5

16

ENCLOBURA

1400L

ABSTRACT

-1301

CRARGED: FROS KON

SECRET

---

## Page 31

CISPATCH HO GiA-

Secret

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, NE

FROM :

Chiof of Station;

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Operational/SYNCHRONY

"SPECIFIC

Dutch. Consul General Reports; Shanghai

• DATE: € JuRe 195€

NOT SUITABLE FOR MIGRGILA

Attached 1e SYHPATHIZER report CQ 131 which tranamits old reports fro

tho Dutch Consul General in Shanghal concerning persona suspected of markins

". for the Komintern and the RIS.

4. June 1958ahnd

Distributions

2 - п/atta

|#/atts

UVUL

SHAZGTO FROM RID/A

INDEX

"ACL

Secret

CLASSIE!

---

## Page 32

14-00000

GEHEIN•

PROJPOT ANTIER

09. 333

INFORMATIE-RAPPO#R

-52958

Enolosed we send you some old reporto. from

Dutch Consul General In Shanghat.

The firet two are liate of names of persons sepot

to be working for the Ronintern and the RoI.Se

The third report, probably from the Shanghal pold

---

## Page 33

td-innon

Drond erer

C.I. Bo.3578

G8HRIM

"E-GRATINBACE, 10 JUII 1039.

Bijsaaad rab 1k do oor U te does cooloman

don 8o8al aracaritson van lijoten van persosalla (over

de Loatato holft Yan 1852), Danovena den aracbr'ift van

een rapport over Agnes SUDLEY, arroaailg vay den Conoul

Conoraal to Shanghal:

Verronden sani

don Beer Adaini:trateur dor Gronsberakl

Pollt1®

Ansterden.

Rotterdaa.

Don Fasg.

Utroabt.

hunhswettta

---

## Page 34

ain,

B1r. tona

Sernang "Mitlone Dresro" Heroin, d

a-1llnr, reoubeldleers duor calbant,

nocolaje agune diu, armvoncio: ral.

aportaonto, 435 lue Lafoyatto; vortrol

•. JOLONIA AROUS,

8. "-remold a coo":

"OTACIA TRADINO CO°,

te sonirn

о. галатов,

"BANJUXE TRADIO 00-,

id, doneph bits.,

Vort.

renacho In.

"Lalour" (shar prod

heoft tantor 1okalen

"arnold a cu.".

dio codaronde aljn varbiiit Harbin ogent

ochop varnenen. besoskt perogold kanloog

Centrosoyne. Vertrol 99 Doo, nasr Lalren®

¿lo Velnergann, ont "China iapore laprot

Luber Co."

in onderhandoldre sol' Lovino (00) over

nankop souled esnen8.

ade Or1ffin (60j•

100e

aft. Controooyun,

verhulodo

Bubbilar Feld

Ar dF.

roade

•pant callaso,

Vledirostook,

vortrot van

Chal anar

Tentain.

on vandear user vledd

ootook. cou bolist rijn pevoood net nio

ade balburonu.

S17-mdangsa lond

In bosprekink nol Tert

Hynd Bankoop novios laken.

Dapl: sovies bendolvors.. Delrel.

Boekh:: "Taon" Modeon:

arrigeerdo thel,

want 0A-lde colastro, ton

nociglijk soviet agent, sedo olgonoar

"Heroury "rading Corporallon": A Y1ullong

loed. wart neuw omen tot UNHO landolvem.

varien.

olndo 1000 Lo rolarlo no bollaoo, cou

beorolling bebben patrerun tun 10.0uo pa

hacen,

to leveren can 100.afd Dormafl.

=lo 'as (49).

Vorkop sal sibaidie calbank sorles pen

in sinkol

840 neo Cas vosaro.

---

## Page 35

14-00000

= 10, BiHOLIES.

10. LONTUAIWUVIUTY

8o. Fowlucs,

BS. 20N7. RoiRICI,

¿erfo 'youo, podolachoord Ma1 Croad

chlo..

BLO li URUAdIEii,

23. FoBTAWYaNTY

-484. J.K.E207.

roogor vert. russ lorleo tant Bniro unat

von?. Han1l8on boueo, mnar aifn vrou

iPrloloune densloro, dors ot sguade, homs

oprerdeier beeft.

Entao 0Tt 5ad, U5, godeReoheord bld drood

"Onrden ,partosate"

loun enplolo0.ofd. ('ontrogogus, erriveerd

et geain chat. sou thoemeroor an 11

c.l.

jiero

- BO. "CATHUT CONSGINGIAI CO".

RO. LOCKAPITAE,

Majontto Apartasto, aubbling vall

(TO MUO), ISO DOBRICINLAL (80).

Aangesteld nlo vortoogor bay "Kvenglia"

(96).

soont 20 Erakoe Avenuo, Bubdling

Hold Hood:

Agont:"Korovma" (@hechandel) Harbla, doed

waken no: Longolld door cuacobentionot

cen tropores

soant 30 l8e Grouchy, vertroh

17 H07, Dalren.

Ba trcnina impore ampore Lusbar Co", ondor leldine "arabole a co.",

dbehes

koontor. proode hoeroglhoden hous uit v.3.

in undrrhandoling

30.

"CILITO BROS".

Jooob muiRo.

Talaa CHEYRO

. -Opovald dog

z1jn broorg

38.

(inriddels narg sboriin vertrokkon) en

.39 .

LleneHNIno®

Aanfoor 3a Conton dood.

Inndolca in sovies produotes.

Fnoob voont "enringeun ayse, rlaß 4l.

FBloss fund.Opern, sou lld sith comn. Joued

Llgr.

c 30. GODINILIVSKT/

Vrogpor 11d dsrochin..0oc.1p.Hnrdin,orrtv.a

Deo; bal, poons Delentoomt Bulldinn, ol

naor Duogs.

So. VoL.DI IisxTY

3y, Narod Cavaora,

, sai conrtoreui.

inploloo.ng.l.0.5. *"Hesldens" OF sbal.

Huordasrodsous "rooBag" (298).

rnd an dlenat 100.afd l'oyusnott

or 1n songolle, wou lia toro o noo

Op Pootuig.

-380

---

## Page 36

cd-idonor

30. S.DOINICEMNE,

ar, Ho Darvasnuer.

12. HodOXPP8T.

48. H.0. XPSTaHI,

•e. Rol

allon

aldas

( rapitl

Vroofor espl.

"arnhold a Co"

veotlgd

+1 g0n

ank "Cathay cosrs polal con (ri thin

an'ep touy llont elhal . Dank..

1001b100-560:0030

Vnegor Deadeloogene URRB.

Soudet koopenn, ui1 eloh cosoolearen

20$

benj.Velnernenn (150) en soepfabi1ok.or

rohien, heoft kantoor op & fehtug lond.

Veruoodel1lx egons OPU, PorlieT -Rejos Cono

esruetion Corporatien".

Brod in

dicgos

100.B8o6.0e8.

sient Colno Lepore Iipore Mtert

traotoert hout ult URRB.

Vroefer empl.0.0.3, vortuulado mot uijn lrano

F11-vlnkol

naar

ald Rue Joffre.

Eaplo 100 afd,doyurmort.

Dufloohe jood, cupl. "Dostrog" sou spoodeal

belost 88f sot Mnanoloorine Konlatori.

landalonions Unns, arriveerdo siok shad,

opemnoron in Consral lioopital®

ar"svoorde uit Dulsechland, woond Unailson

coueo, kanor ase, bosodkt geragold bov

agETite

xnp3-10o-ard jorunert.

rrelupte

Looeni weent ehineenotes lo0tes Sp005

_orletongente..

Thoc eiport Controsoyus, vervragon door (84).

Sournallate, 11d "VTer Vilenden Unis"

for antovorketor "China Proes", nohriff?

thona-Foor

"the Chiin Iigeat".

ton.

Fradlag Co" (88)

verlies overhaas!

3hanghal ni

arrostatlo prur Nouless. (102)

Itreotour "Friftoos Benk".

Brecht voor . "Krangiira

---

## Page 37

cd-idonor

oo Tocnir, pe pte

Jizi

*"

osionat vend Tiddeltle

"On E

-huoun .d,

anl tumoodelljr.

ilenot erodo, bid :ioguanert.

91d inibbling :oll lond

Ini s-

cntr0

Bigus Dobben ToreNtOl BODLUUD torlos

Lo rokening le sroopen toor faston door

Contrunoyuin nanbevoloa.

ilea

inork. Conmuniet.

coorotaris

"Conltó v.".

vordrdielna dor Iuogre

(Doa, NoWlena),

#1 J0

blad: "Chise forua" ooderd Auguataa nied Does

verschenen,

opende drukkortf.gsandard

*PrIatIDe, UO", JY O InNO 490 Flentung Hoclo

preoks chtneaieh, oosinteooee toude soc

aproolt Chlneesch

vony Chineeron nonr uife.

12 diuia du Conoulnt

Torkoupt povlot Lovene

aiddelen, muont 1lêl tinan Na.

Euroer von so Toknysdorso vorbadott iend

SEaDE GiU,

•usiint 290 Marurnlid.

covlot hendolannent, Rooke Ulind kolen op

marre вo plasteon.

ado Chiaolino (89) en Fosrofs. (110).

Weae ortod dinde toea co th bo eapl:

Dsoohuenrood.

gent bloaooop ulf' Harbin, nrriverrdo thal+

Boont "Inporiel llotol".

iro-oociunlat Jurnallnf, die bagin 1038

in :hal vertoofde,

Arons in Buropa 800i

Hous roor toolating 1n Vo0tonriJ.

intalagen blf loc.nfd soyumefs, Bmd 1n

dionat bij Controsoyuo:

Journa tBs, Mronger biJ "TaBa"e theno 80L

bad 100 ard,voyumere.

TTAd in as nGs Dis LOG.nte LenETODOyriO.

voons carter lid. 2o Deogern 106

Artione blf luno. upesa, sou 2o0r. kebló

Hnrbln z1jn.

Vebor i solebn eral orda.

8 soceiber chel.

tount

nou cabd.. Colo s1f.

22.

I SACC

cs

---

## Page 38

.....

boduno vroaçore ecundant dão loodo Lager

der

Vais 13

In libode

•1o dant doorotoronto coraisarrleal toor

ibRa"no.

voodor enpl-ofd.n "Arhald & Co",

sabanrola vor ioruanos trar Talmatoo.

agunt 0H0

cesoolearde

a10h

Dos leickiridors (04)

30 .

100 , vor! Controdgyu

domone op marks se piaosson, dnet luD Con

#inat optappen.

Boho-ador "Imperial Horal"*

100 vort, joynert.

Cov1de-,mor1kanneot fa.

Roopsan In rolotlos aos soviet handolevert

boefs emirranten pesport.

trad in

bad.

"inlo, otelnnon & Co.", 1a cabochvodes

#RD

o16.

o Tainus.

025 Huo dorizo, Normony Torrado,

Sovier-koortar®

VOR TRUNY TUDIN: COSPONITION®, O Kiuklang Iid, São 140

DOLETROPULITAN TH LINO CO" LustaOnO In dis lnber (69), de sioh

vrocgor belnette overnakias rondoer t.U.*.

Konintem.

00. Лакий.

D0, POñMOCUIL, VSKY,

102. 1. H.RH01s.

Maysavei

atermina Vidt:

Boer: 108 U.:° (VT.

verßrok nnor dapan bet be

Mode-babenader "Inperial lotel"*

soulet agont, sou l1d C.l. 81mn en oyval.

for van Itkin (03) b11 Callose.

Trud ols moonniolen in dienat bal l00.re.

91. MULLESUN,

alo Montason (99).

• Fanrdenado peg.

veroodellk varbindente

nent Ulü!', Bunt Chanr "Denda Aparto".

9% MORRINN,

ToR Host innoguino (128, ober oheoleebe

nidorllar centronoyus.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

•A =

Voraredol sys bulpagene org In diene bad

•irlandal Tendina 6o.

: 0oro bolbanore (82).

rInd an dienos 100. 0ia. oJurnort, sou 11d

Lato.

5000? 459 Auo LATayO880, iNFl

Appold, workt op vert "Transitar".

Inotopmar ult Hardin, ma: big poor areset

oonsulaat

0-880;

woont 43 Nanking 1de

vangelo in : c0ohon de liliren.

droiedo tot

hongerotarine.

NaT.

op

seraldoongino MUPA,

10

gohud D, ankosen tot honorel re loden

preolatua.

Vert Texteiynd ibal.

Vernoodriljk ni deonos aplonnore UNRe,

vortror y Novunber pear Harbio.

208. LAT. WVITZKYY

vrour ven 104€

30B. 00AN205.

sl0 Te:Oganosof8 (140).

2098 "RISTAL INCUTIAL TRADINO CO", 88O POTUS (11010

JUBO TOREITAL GUADINO CO", HOBRIONE i Moneral Dank BullOIRro Lanos 820,

ond * controle Lury bro (80).

180. п.рьнOEя.

11s. v.r.YaTiono,

Terrado".

Vert.

"Ramenn" (09) 011 610h 00000100100

et (145)•

Doner enDi. "arnhola & Co

In rolotles

viot handelangenten. Toont 132 R

Vallon, Kasor 25.

1220 //uk, 02300

115. TOPLATON.

sordet ngont bhal.

Vert-shanghnl SuvBore lot.

Ired in dienot bif 100 id. oyurport, mant

te ottellilo reiron Boar Uit tornt op

Pootung®

119. T... Foares,

19 Гекала Hd.

Soneguino (128).

VoroadallJk 1d MOPR, 930 ve-oftro, Ter

trok nn r infren, broer, vra (115).

vertirol

2: Doo, horr Viat

---

## Page 40

cd-idonor

fit him

118. 1.

.1aB1NOY.TCH.

118. Gortrare:.

180, HOVr. MOIORAVVI,

JeRo arLaDO SENTA

I:"• VoLATUTTIILD.

VOrE. NSTTACH (0.U°.

tentovorreteriasle

erIrox ssor darpo, VIralr.oto

rlotrapaino letr.io.

Vruuw van 119.

Iluordairectour "roatasg" (196).

Vroopos vort.: oueorgtlos. chad proft door

voor oanstollise to krilion.

JE• ROUDIN: TSA, allAs

nernar (199) allaa Taylor (141), alo 1040

I84. 801.70030-95684

De oco du alke (282). 392 100

baJ funidleldde

voffro®

1e8. Yonhovs.,

arôi KUs0O,

38%. AoEranrd,

220. 1,X.BAN UVIRi.

189, YOO BAYADZANTI,

agent "aso, lid Col.

m1a Noulana (208).

Empi-1od.oréolcntrosoyus, 130 selhalwolll.

hula ELo

Vert. Cherisobo Truat URRS 3hal.

Vert QuskINo, vun 1924 "29 diroatour drue

eontroleasde toen

For1g Road tes Vokbondon EU.D, Harbsorus:

sovena slnndeetdone

korijon posr publiontlo oosu. propapanda

1n Chla.o

Korasanecho, Jop.

on

20g-Banl,

vas vervolrone od1.000ro hondalsard.i,0.3e.

1n 1929 door Cbin ansortlton coorroeteord

fodeporteard

Kwa 1930 Harbin DoraRe Ia

1ad C0r+.

onRoveer su jonr wudg in ocnteod

p0t Vor Yrleadod Uius vuor vortooolar

Bo0108

f1las. Desoons bier "Centurian Froeg" cu Mil

drukkert den

dio 1n vorbindlan olaan not ageoat

ten ropk on vorde intieng vrland va:

Vortaniants (1490.). 100nt Isporlal Hotel.

2S0. A.TJOINIIUEH LAOjUISKY,

Taghn1o01

Rande Banr vais.

131. SiGAl,

idgonnnr iclncan int's Corporation",

Huooun lond, hod ondorhoud net Roves (12B)..

1320 LiPoi oSilMiRO, en s1In H0on:

2х. iBнiRO.,

Bhpl e "far Bastern I"port Co"

oenigon 111d vorba:don oenn

**.lokhuidort a

151, 110spão dn:mINu.

39", SIRIRO (BHOS),

APTITo iDOd, DOOns JeCO bubbloi.ndo, soladion

n0t Cou.s.

IdO CHIIIO (S)).

---

## Page 41

14-00000

1NG. 101:079:

230. N0S.S0IH088,

140. L. ToSVIROKS,

(a10 ballago).

"ast, thad, 800at 94 baynour Ml, broop sens

anplel00.0da G.Uelle

Bovlet aviatour,

Instaballjk vertson b11

COCSIRDAT (UR:S

renatapubllontlos!

arr1Y.

abal,

woont lanilton House, kasr 415, fooft

slob

ult vonr or8100t, de vernoodelljk ageat

Hasrodoupr,

broar

MOUT -LAIUTITCH (TV)

trad.

In Alonat b1J jansot61 studlo.

141. TAYLOR, OlINO R.UAINT:II (1E3).

Softro, Con busse

Hartule

Borled agent, portrok nane Vind1rost00k.

144. A.P. FOURRANTHE,

aou Ir dianot OFU 11J0

Botrodan, soont

902 due doring.

110. STERTONELOTT,

Vrooger agont .0U

hoort aioh 89=a20010914

net H.lotroft (110) sonoindo koardorig or

Saation I

to richtei.

Oyzlobtor

"Calulu"

noord kaner 10 Hankow Fond,

8800 811001134

In dianot sortorgtlos shal,

Tort20k 10t0g

24222 V. VARIAN,

1499 MOLLi VANTININTE,

140. 18000 I.VELHLMAT,

AfFe

Shol, moont "Imparind Hoßel",

"Intorkino" blos0.,0p

M1J.

verte

to larbin; norkt

manoo mot soyadyanta (189).

Beteordor "Tuas" te Moscow.

NO:GOBOUT "LO PTOJOOSOUS", TIREDA VAS (180)

Loador Doroop, leB seynour lond, horre

viar touns:

2 119. 1. 12bort. Va14.10107,

Vroogor rapl. Centrosoyle en ortlodous verto

Text.jynd.

Hooft not & volendo broers fo.

"A Velneranna tiroa", 10 ›uso Rand.

150. 8. VICal VSIN: IMANH,

proater. vorto

(datololio),

" 400400"

10

Canton bobben smenpertt, vurtrot 19

Nov, mans Dalton, koarde & Doo. thal Berago

198, 1. 12923608 V ZARA), KOrE 10 Al, El, 20098 Fare a Pa

---

## Page 42

14-00000

1AS, BOFIS 3. VRIRCHLANS,

V700802

Aus #u1TO.

130.

280. dOLOVINGIADT?

Deutlo is"arnhold a co", uis sich aspoolver

net Spatein

(42), grande

89 Detoler 1038

TOnt dil due du Rol Albert, Intornavinsa

Arr. Shal ult Mediwalock, schling ofent

Colrybe

ivanon syndionat

vol. Verro Ooates)

Bo ElIn

en vertant to alin den cobre.

Velnermant.

4918805,

neronnt unn Nuulens, vertrot 1

Pareabor anar Vladiroatook.

w.

éigonaas mode.

162. V-KTHUN

1010 "awal

100. JIIS.

Ap80, kauer 201.

ATte beRta

шлі гаск дрсо

450

Lafajoste,

BOt

Dultoode fe's mit..

berocht knagoron controcoyuo ca Dostraß»

bij arcos la londen gareoad

vertrol. ry Hov.

Bant Mrd, China 700r

verhoop this ainerol

VrOGROr DIS MONgOISPANODOrE,

uit URAG

$e shal

sovle?

koerler,

magontald olo

noker sig "Hunahan" boot vorsado dusachen

shal on Visirostook.

troeger enpleloo op.c.tote

onté.

des-1

1630 bubble ell hdo. 19

agentep div.

aSe Roublneteln (18)).

Inpl-Centrosoyun thal, verhulod- 2ooz 10

Mankor iid., alfn vroue:

die niet sodoodd dot gen en frour

o11 solfde inotalline vortum.

20%

---

## Page 43

20%. пол:ти10".

2000 орта.

100.

1%

193. П.ZARS.

• 10 .

01 rohlne 1000, sou t1ae5-

olodle odonto

ID608T.

11 ja 00a

Baido

Komator ovoranken.

Coua (43) 0

Do fo. de Blon door TrODBa

Boo bolantio ma de HORropOllin Tradieg

10* 001

ovonoche con buisache fe.

ontene hoof! A ofilmBoor $o Barldjo

Kolgon, Ura en Chiso, orplostera

eutobusdicnos tueschen Kalten on Uner.

Vorboxiden ael Dol2o00 shad, sou lid Goto 8lta

Ble sorneldor (130).

1n relatio

not sotle? handelelnatel lincon.

•Hol dochter von Marenent (04).

Feolllolld vas loussoBs (184).

Shat

onthoy Lodernational Laporg Co*-

380020019

Booradsmatour "Fosting" (107) •

chanhal, Novesber- Dootbar 1090.

10-0-010d0.

---

## Page 44

cd-idonor

ATTCIV.7088, Ü0T99N de.

8. ARLUR, SOlOECO,

niae piä

DO AUDOGAF, R.

Agonto

Gei.U.

Hnbll iüghlinlid vin ARcus-um en

MerrouT

Teifül.ig

TONI

aronte dor.u.

LTFI

do shrrgans

ult tarils. Irnngs

dag:1l Jkoohe borooker

Coтla8

*Chinn

"Ur rtaa"o

I1d mna do

da HiOVTOUIT SUDCUARD,

„edid 1' i $

Do do DArADUXÃO,

soéliiar a

5.je

oon do Uole

on s4ja goroten.

partsJconooton.

0110,

sowtot-ARedten

Idd 0.P.U.

FrUDt®

Shanghad•

19, 55.:

sovdet koopman,

ered in hot burraltie goe

B. DRILRSKY,

dof.v. Ors d1en haato

suatar mn hot 1id

serdd CLitis;

Buld

0.PU.

detploveerdo bi1 do Canodian Inoltio

Saüo CO.

Dosoekt berbaoldolsJk A-Levtne,

Airodtonr Contro0o j48®

viorde or tan varincht agont to

a1 fo vea

de

HUPR.

goita

!!

---

## Page 45

cd-idonor

1 TUNTIZIjURORS,

20. "ouвs:a1X,

Fer. io.

"I'rar.

• Axdo.

•OTIZIAN bIL &E "LONEONKOS" LOODOTO

610ve Centrulo voor 110960180)...

joohtor von den kosalor vnn de centro

ou JUg;

1o solvo verkanon big de

iojumerlo

• Hoosre Yra lel. D.OODuNE (Ko.10)•

AITIYNAIÃO OD

O coptentor 191:

Lld van do huaalnobo Co

Truniale

Tepelj, verkzart

big den

- Chleneschen Doeter Eprormog®

Tiso.

ARATCRESTILDS, HOYFOUT

• MYNECHrORG"•

20. KOvr, HARTLNTOA, NS IDEiO. Oua-pemployrorto DIl Co Folbonk.

кА. "нокі?,

Tohnkonlovnek. Lle von de lueoleaho

oEsauntoto PArtAJe

marg turopn oãa Rualana vong de

80. lloRo 164105,

20. Ne ITXIN,

28. Novr: ULeO RANSAZTy.

Aborlkoarooh Juumoliot (Chinn Forss).

Gotaployoonde van de Controbo1u0. Ca

shangnos•

BObtAODOOtO von A-RAMaLTZaY,

d1e

vorkzarn 1a bi do sovlos handalovor

rogonwoordialng to Tol1o.

20. s.

KASTEINI,

Po. INeFoua r.n. XImIs.

30. 10 i

KLOCH,

Ooatenrifkor, Jood. Ild van de Ver

eonseene vou triondrn von de U.os.8.

30v1a% fotnployonnte 8o Harbia, thone

te shanphed.

And10a:1

Jueallat vortoafde in ual

10:2 1n Monkou•

1101d oy y 7u11 eene lestar toor de

Ioonlo

oul vnn de Chinnooche coronm1o..

to Partide

Meas

32. MENTOUS LOVALITY,

tchegenote von AKOV,IiFy,

d10 norh

sana do b1j do contronojuo so thanghas

Dorhanan big de Ialbank.

Kolner,

34. JOL EOrCHUUBES,

88: Pol LAITO,

SO. NANT L BOSREE,

38o0t

1n vorbinding net de (lrua

naatan,

ooldberr a Co." toor ainot ver

atnoralrnter en vardoovando niddoles®

Pan anagokonos sortos ageos te lnanahal.

---

## Page 46

14.00000

5%.

30.

MAKH TINI®

dir I Lb Astal,

30.

aiotrfsare.

M.y"

Firzena

pbeie: 1 5-90-0618r

HUVITIKY.

10. Yorr schar".

19. 17

• CHEIOINO®

S. sndvcnstcHsnko.

48. iov. sTarDEVaxt,

S0, LL TEFLITLNT.

D2. NGrIOUO LNITEPLTSAT.

SO TAT-OGIN.0FV,

ay.Ttan the p.sssetiainle

ado damorun:1.UuET.

1880070610

üennt in orrbindine pet sorsor arenten

e

itenrar.1.

Hsg vostind of kn

nug.

170E Dn0r AHrIIke.

Ild vin de iuanlooho oceaunlo to lortil.

Ie to :hunghrd of osno fobolno sioulo.

Stant so vorbindinc uo? hot Th:+840

GOhOD.

varkinas b1l de cconunledho opionangg

dlenot van de sortet.

Vodaployaamo bad de "Clobo Tridsna Co.".

«(T)

sovlot winkrl to shoaghad.

jovlos hradelnoy an diemnitan eo :tenig-

hol.

istiaployenado Dil Lury broo, to ihongtiodo

Bov1nt nrone bij do corkisoden on Doo

raninepootle.

Houdor von' sovsos Daayo0r

10- 200004/21903.

nari kacnsch

ondoiniisores.

Trmy op 29

ANO tUA

1n hot huwol!tr ao? yrasco

(Nuo¿o)o kal 1o oorsunlose pomorden.

ork HOORO L20An

JOOd, B040010y001 -E1160

Jork hoon!.

do Voroniglne ven

vrleadon uns do U.li.9.8.

Yertogonsoondigor mn do "comedsormron"

01)

de

"TAIQACOR" Borde es von vordnent

anokkolnor to alin in vordorronio uldi

delen.

von cinl o itisn.

nork.aan

blj hos lovdot

Vortoerde In Juls

1932 to übershal.

adgonnar vnn het rodenerously "Ia forio

1015°

8u khanginho vói O.i.U.

duntkant,

TXT:ITYNT (N0.51).

eohtronoot inn ddvrsut hod.

ZoheRenuato inn N0.B0, 111 GaPol.

frooger O.'.0. Alworde in dall 199

an Lan40 0140r181011 woor tó cbanghas

auatrnldor; Jourallás.

underhoud? bo

sIeihInron not ITAICS (no,88) van het

abanis

Forus,

13

---

## Page 47

cd-idonor

B1E TCIOULAUYLXT

BS. MN AHLSCHAOIINK.

60.

I a ba

raVAH,

8% F.VІNCHIT,

B0. Aatz. d

00. TSTIEI,

s in2oas,"

Vortogonwuortigor to :heaghel von do

: OUdO8 ObOOnkOlOntrant (DAIUOFL).

rok on ae .orffmbe- 19

onder

arn neem

Vany

ITRT ANOUDUROES

indáko.8ot

YOurTIUn TOn DOdDUOrE 10-10560019380

n fgo

le khnberovos op 20

Juls

• Je ook DiUd.NAt'.

ianooroo. Loviot nganto.

: uú godnplogaorio ona de Dalbask to

Kobo.

id oon d0

navocnos yan hes hulliNe poar.

Lld van

veruoniaing Ynn Vilsaden

unn de U.H.B.u.

Norkzona bij de Concsonojua.

uitsohe.

dirootrioo vrn do boarhnndol

"XITOLIrT" te Shanghal.

Lid son de

Dultonho Cocmunla8o

Partlf, snoretarodde

van da Voreuniging vnn rrleaden vun de

U Mowsd.

Ruo vna bustacho artonas. uld AUPR.

itost in verbinding eot do adroceten

van Houlens.

Oeémplogeardo von de Piraa "H.'arlovoky

¿ Co.."

Lld onn de lips ona Jongo

oonaunt aten.

+0-00900-0

!4

---

## Page 48

Anarlean oltdain bor on february 19, 1092, n6 do,00d, KloDOUrS,

VoSono Mambos o! ta lilacustan sssoolation of varian ind of tho

berlin Initin Novulutionnry dodoty suthor ol sevoral novole in

mallab and Deman, ono of unica "Doughtor of tho saria" subliabel

Dy collocann do Now-York duriar 191I 1a Bellovod tO De a DOloured

voroson of her ou 11fo, a sued in shenghad during lay 1029 fron

Berlin heving Statoliod Vir 10a00n, lirtin, Julder, Tionßain and

Peking, Journeying on rougort Fuelled lasued on Jal 29, 1020 by

the Laster testos Consulato of Berlin.

profesaton Agnos :nodley lo a correspondent 08 tho prank

turtor ioltung" tho offloinl orgon of tho Commen lenooratio Ferty.

Sho da.10 thn sortico of th.obtom irnch of the Central

Consisteo of the concunta, Intrenatinal and undertakes cho pio.

pagoting of communiut dootripos nad notivition throughou: tho 0r1cat.

the roselves ordero direot from the Contrnl Committee of the Cosmuniat

International to Joscow end hes no direot conneotion with 10.101

jovlos comunlato, In ordor to conourlage her notlvltion..

Hor oblor dutlus corprise the orfanlalay of orkero ond the

ootabllahine si cormuntic organiantiona anone the nortors. Tho.

nacure it her sork lo alailar so that of toulono, und d8 10 fro

boble thit sho knew the: corstary of the l'.P." U.s.

She speake inglish, renoh and lorn woll and lu in possed-

sion of tus passiorts - German and Anertoon.

Follouine her artiunl in changhai, she roaded at BS ivene

Duball, a liussian boarding hour, ahnring a room vith one Cortrude

Binder, on in rhonn citizon. the firs: attrootor nitention locally

during february 193J, whon cortnir correspondened fron hor pen

rubllobe: in the "sankfurtchieltun" regarding alloper LAcontAs

15

---

## Page 49

•Ed885810 550pa5a8duna saren dy she nonghol dusospel council on

meritod soprosuotion ln to Lorios nowarop "eveatle" (Moscow)

un Dogeabor 0, 1129, and mao npain reproduced in sho luend jurnal

•changhad, sula" on rebruary 11, 1030.

In addition to ootler as correspondent to:tie "Frankfarto.

•dituna" slo inedley also entributes arilolos tò lan "China

tontloy Henler» o:naghal publio,?son undor the panapunint of one

Agns: nove an oresolo million by apua selloy entallen 1n8do

lipine Skatebes va rublloher in the Juno (1930) 1u0te 08 10e

"Now Mossoo", the 1o also bolieve: to bo the nuthor of an aresolo

entitled "sundos Buhlad tho Monpann chiang Ras shal", ohion appoceed

ba 8h0 "Rod Jog" (lose inhao) dntod Berlin, jersenter 1, 2031.

sno olds sindo eino 8o devoto ristenedon so the pollisool elo

tuntion ta india, farourin the nti-writinh prity in shat cuntry.

she de aloo knom to be in touch men 100nI Indion codstsoniate

and on several oconstons ina editod anti-uridiah propaganda on be

holf of she shenphns arnen of the Indinn Youth longue, en roden

lovlutiony orpinisation, ocoupytan pronines stunged at sal

Pooshing load, chapel.

On Soy 10, 1830 L900 Roddey loft hechid for My and Lazet

proosoded so inacon, murlar ieptenber of the dine yon information

mas rooeived fror thu lonikune fulloo do chu offoot chae a house

ovoupted by-denen talley had ben ruided by the innion poldee and

shas nunerous papera relating to Indio sad been noised. folloving

she said ano renoved to the renon concesaion at stessoga and re-

maine: 120re, no far no orn he escortaliod, mitil por puttir to

¿changhad in the third wook in Dotober 1030 whep she sook up beat

residenco al 92 iquer de Gruuchy, on deniary ex, 1031 abe. pro

ooded to liankine and dia sul resus nemin unill sincón $, urada

---

## Page 50

agata intias u hor rosidenco of Ir louro de Oruoby, se leti

changhal onoe arsin un duno 10, 1011 for cantos, abero 18 10 FO.

30 July So.

on votodes 14, lail the renoved tor de house de Grovety to

aperemone dus, la alo apestrento, 1388 drenuo soffTo.

DUTLAs BLO Litter pOrE Of 2031 18 me Bo0ertasnod that Ame!

inedley requently Vasted et sbols plave of realdanoe, Harold Me

Icones ind corral Cloos, tuo notorious socal ridioale.

Durias tha sara pardod, dua to aollon or the fare of 8he

chinose Covurment roainl Conuor, 1t enty to our Inowledes thet

Mio rodioy was ni vostoua Binos 1a robolpe or comunios end 1088-

imperinliat litornture, son of which a posted loolly chilas

nose was malled fron na far auay as Berila.

On Maroà 1U, 1952 sho apnin renoved, pla ties to apartacat

JUde Loiese Aparemento, 1552 Avonuo Jofiro, "her che atilo seeldea.

and shoro ahe lo know lo recelve chinose and n fow foroign viol

toro; puse of unos no la the babie of steging ull nighe in tho.

apartamt 1n cuestion. Le la belloved thas choce vialta aro undo in

order that noetings may bo hold in connootion vith the all Chine

Labour redemcion (Union ayodioala 'an chinoteo, of wich Agnea

inodley lo sal? en be o forlnent manber.

The chlnese wo viase hor are mainly of che itudent type,

boBb molo and Senale, willut de lno boen escortainoi tor destada:.

that one of ser foreiro violtora la Agur Bou, the maogor of the

"chine cody latien".

'Apea coodley hus uson sevornl odonalona lourmayed BO tha

desor lluuse Mates, ond enutrido ando dy sho suniosipal 80ll0à sicu

stial ate da la she habl? o' onilin upon con 11a cocupied la

---

## Page 51

Dy Bre jurushy doil, e Derman durallos, iserdora do dares"o

cortospondens o lhe "Diplonatla Nevaraper" (Mnionalisado: el tuas).

os rooentig arrivos is mangara, essenalbly so aletributo rirta

PUE RãO TArdOUS ¡OrAUS LONAR'A ABDOSSAlLODI DO lE BrOOpa Of the

CLIBeDo 1089 Nouto Arty. da fas as con Do asourtalsa Do politloal

Bubbline soll lond et Irregules laterralo, bat alo has pos beea

obcertad of losa in 8ho ounpany o: Enrold Holanado, não 10 5-31ab18

reparte? to

Do ereat edniser of ter bellera.

---

## Page 52

200.-004-106

A-00328

20 FUN 48

26-7-0-27

* *T

---

