# 104-10065-10436

## Page 1

104-10065-10436

Abacinati

PIRA

TOTAL COPIES

20-2

SECRET

RUN EY

ADVANCE GOP* ISSUED/SLOITED

ACTION UNIT

AF. FILE

селз6

N

ACTION

OGC2

9 369795

EI A90

REPRODUCTION BY

OTHER TI

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEZ

ST AFF

ILLM

1) Sel Con

ONds

IN 095925

43052

Wather.

N Shep Mi

Of paupher. Ti..

"!..

ODA, SecuK, Commo

we be.

PAGE 01

TOR: 1015537 NOV 76

SECRET 101508% NOV

76 STAFF

CITE

43252

TO: DIRECTOR.

FYBAT WNINTEL MISPLASH WOMUSE

• 1, PETE BAGLEY CALLED COS MORNING 1D NOV TO RELATE

FOLLOWING:

A, MRS, BAGLEY RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL 9 NOV FROM WOMAN

WITH UNUSUAL ACCENT FROM PARIS IDENTIFYING HERSELF AS CALLING ON

BEHALF OF READERS DIGEST; (BAGLEY DID NOT KNOW WHETHER LANGUAGE

USED FRENCH OR ENGLISH, HE COULD CHECK WIFE.Y

I3, PURPOSE OF CALL WAS TO IDENTIFY. TOM. BAGLEY AS ONE

AND SAME WITH "PETE" BAGLEY, THIS IDENTIFICATION PERTINENT TO

ARTICLE WRITTEN BY FNU EPSTEIN, SUBJECT UNDISCLOSED, MRS

BAGLEY DEFLECTED INQUIRY AND DID NOT MAKE POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION.

C. EPSTEIN COULD CONCEIVABLY BE JAY EPSTEIN WHO WROTE

BOOK CRITICAL OF WARREN COMMISSION REPORT MANY OF WHICH CRITICISMS

DEFENSIBLE, EFSTE IN LATER WROTE ARTIGLE FOR NEW YORKER CRITICAL

OF JIM GARRISON,

DO BAGLEY TELEPHONE NUNCER APPARENILY

OBTAINED FROM

LOCAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.

SECRET

06357

---

## Page 2

14-00000

= 7.81456, 2178.

CABLE SEC DISSEN UY

-_ PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE _COPY

ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF . FILE .

N

ACTION #

T 369795

EL A909

TOTAL COPIES

SECRETT"

RUN BY

BY

AT

VR

REPRODUCTION

OTHER

SING ME IS PROMISE

ST AFF

2

3

PAGE 02-02

*TOR: 101553Z NOV 76

IN 095925

43&52

E, IF NEW ARTICLE IS BY SAME EPSTEIN AND IS ON WARREN

COMMISSION REPORT OR NEW INVESTIGATIONS KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

BAGLEY'S INVOLVEMENT VIA PDDONOR (PERHAPS PDDONOR HIMSELF COULD

BE AT ROOT OF HIS IDENTIFICATION IN ARTICLE AND HIS TELEPHONE

CALL.

2.

MP. BAGLEY WISHES TO ALERT HOS TO ABOVE, BUT ALSO TO

BE ADVISED OF ANY INFO HOS MAY HAVE ON ARTICLE AND IF HE TO BE

IDENTIFIED WOULD APPRECIATE PRIOR WARNING FOR OBVIOUS REASONS.

3. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.

1:..

S

E

C

R

E

T

---

