# 104-10400-10195

## Page 1

104-10400-10195

OH: GINA.

CODESTO

TO

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION

NOR DESTROY QUESTIONABLE RECORDS

'A..

TU

THRU:

"tri

Component Fecord Manomont metr

Directorare tos::: donatine

Records Adanistracior Branch,

DDS& T/OTS/GAD/A

55.3

SIS DEMENTS

ALIT

THEN AS SCHERULEI

THE

RECCEES ARE

EL.Nd

mELt

DE:SE- DISPOST ON I STRUCTIONS MUST HE

19 May 1978

- 15

BE SUBIE=*

To F

= 110%

15A3

SITUAL O=

==TO

FURT. ED DETENTION!S

IDENTIFICATICA C

==1

"A: ES

OTS/GAD /A

man...

60-77

9A

12 Folders

deresaaa

F. $ 5950 P.

SAME BURSTiONABLE

•ES TOICC-CATE

Two file folders from OT3/GAD/A Imbelled as follow:

1) "Case No. 4390 - Info on Soviet Docentation.

OVIR. Requestor BR/CI"

2) "Case 1630 - Analysis of Available Info on Sov Stateless Person"s

ID for SR/CI"

Both files contain information provided to SR/CI in 1964 pertaining to an

analysis of Harvey Oswald's Soviet-issued documents.

OTS had no need to retain these files.

In accordance with a telephone

conversation with Mr.

Jof OGC, both files will be brought

to the attention of OLc since they pertain to lee HargeY Ostld tHa

HERE FAUNTOR. AN OR DECOROS

CATH

CHOTS/ GAD/I

3014

2441

DO A MAN ESTHESE Y

19

DAIE

the to he

LOTS 2rd

CONCTORATI

DECCATS

3035

ENTENSCH

19. Way

DATE

DEST RIO

7787

AUTHORIZATION TO RETAIN OR DESTROY RECORDS

GATMA OF FENNE COUNSEL GERMSBENT AT VE

EUTENSC

DATE

5191

"DEO NAUL AND JANATURE SECUET, INCORATER SISTEMS ANALY

IPODOVEC

AMUN METHOT

EE+118-4419286

SE+T:C9g.

FCU: DOIC- PICCADS ARE

« плядня х. І.

FIRTEUrTIC

MOSSES

• 2S00SIT.C0

ФОТІВЦІСАТ РЕТ

AUTHOR

Don 18508

141c

---

