# 104-10074-10069

## Page 1

104-10074-10069

SIGNAL CENIERUSEO.

AGE

TOG

32

MRO

DCI

PAGE

PAGES

OMF

0

0

0

0

SECRET

MESSAGE HANQUINÒ INDICATOR

DATE-TIMEGIOUS

STAFF

1917577

DIRESTOR

CITA

CONF: WE 10

INFO: "FILE /P/AN. FRS, DODZ

LSN/ID

C/OPS LAIO

670514

D

INDEX.

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

PER

0

88 FILEN

#

TO: FR/NEW YORK. Y

AJAJA FORRES Y

REF: FR/NEW YORK 30417 IN 5112141 Y

I. NO ADDITIONAL HOS TRACES ON EDGAR LEMMENS AND CO. OTHER

TIRLEMONT +

THAN CONFIRMATION THAT IT LICENSED DEALER OF ARMS LOCATED IN/CRIBETS

BELGIUM AND THAT IT IMPORTED FROM NEW YORK TO BELGIUM A SILENT SUB-

MACHINE GUN WHICH LATER SHOWED UP IN SPAIN CONNECTED WITH BASQUE

ASSASSINATION. Y

Z. MICHELL' L. WERBELL, III (201-259910} IS PARTNER OF DEFENSE

SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC. OF POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIATA LICENSED

ARMS DEALER- HE BORN @ MAR 1928, PHILADELPHIA. HES HAS LENGUAN

201 ON WERBELL WHO HAS LONG HISTORY POPPING UP IN AREAS AND SITUATIONS

WHERE CAN MAKE FEW FAST BUCKS. HE CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS:

WHEELER-DEALER AND PROMOTER. OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. HE OF OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN MID-1959. WHEN BECAME INVOLVED WITH ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTERS

IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND OFFERED PROVIDE BKHERALD WITH INFO ON

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IN CARIBBEAN. HE GRANTED POA IN AUGUST

1957 BUT THIS CANCELLED OCTOBER 1959 WHEN HIS INFO PROVED BE OF.

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

1106

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

COOAONATING OFFICE

EINSSIFICATICA

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITEO

SECRET

10404

AUTHENTICATINO DINCEN

E 2

IMPDET

CL

BY:

POVERT

---

## Page 2

14-00000

AGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACE

TOG

TRE

NiRO

DCI

OMF

0

CIRSGIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE MAMULING INDICATOR

0

0

PAOS

2

0F

DATE -TIME GROUP

CITE

MESSAGE REFINENCE NUMBER

STAFF

DIRECTOR

DISSEM BY::

• CONF:

INFO: FILE

670514

1

0

NO INDEN

RETIRe TO

PER.

IF FILES

#

LITTLE VALUE AND IT SUSPECTED THAT HE USING BKHERALDE FUNDS TO

PROMOTE PERSONAL INTERESTS. EVER SINCE: BKHERALD HAS BEEN DIS-

CLAIMING WERBELL WHO HAS REPEATEDLY ATTEMPTED PROMOTE SELF AS REP

OF LNBUZZ AND BKHERALD: SINCE MUCH OF BKHERALD INFO ON WERBELL

• ORIGINATES LNERGO- WE SUGGEST LNERGO REP/NEW YORK PERFORM TRACE

THROUGH HIS OFFICIAL CHANNEL.. CABOVE INFO MAY NOT BE PASSED FOREIGN

NATIONALS BECAUSE WERBELL WODUAL CITIZEN * Y

3. ONLY TRACE ON MITCHELL WERBELL IV IS THAT HE ALSO INVOLVED

FATHER'S

IN/BASESS ARMS BUSINESS TRADE. HE HAS HAD NO CONNECTION WITH

SHERALD. Y

4. FILE: 201-918287, E2 IMPDET N

DATE:

UNIT

EXT:

13 MARCH 2975

NE/ARN/I 03

R. 1336

it cele

C/FR/82

HELEASINE DAFICER

CALICIFILATION

SECRET

NE/SO.

CNE/ ARN

26404

CNE/ ARN.

FR/Q 2.

03

COORCINATINO OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMOTED

AUTHANTICATINÓ UAFICED

E 2

IMP.DET

CL BY: 025268

---

