# 104-10179-10171

## Page 1

10410179-10171,

!..

20 Septrabor 1003

MEMORENDUM FOR: Henry Hecksher

I regret that

I wasn't able to spend nore time on

this

however,

case in expecssang

interespiag as it was.

I do have some resorvations,

an opinion on Ray since the files are

not complete and pitensive rescarch should be undertaken

first; but crer uitt

This

reservation I as convinced that onc

can see the picture clearly of the hesitation on the nart of

this Agency

to surart Ray.

When support was offered it was

always with

some condition, one of which sas

for Ray to Join

the FRD.

Although Ray Ess

a supporter of Cuban-exile

unification, he

ras not going to be forced into Joining the

FRD with threats of sin-support.

As you know.

say sas dinister of Public Jorks for Castro

until he rosined his rost in August 195g.

He hightailed it

into the Escambray Muriains where he began the now unsuccessful

tight to unscat Castro.

Through internediaries, Ray had

asked the lavana Station for military assistance, but in

almost every

inspaner he was denied this

say alnost

simply becnuse

sile is not clear on whetter we condescended

and dropped supplies.

Any's political chilosophy is somewhat equivocal, but

oy-and 1nree he is sirsal for a democratic system of

government and for stray pronomic and

social reforms. He

reportedly would reserr individual liberties and a

representative

tes with

government.

He would reportedly maintain close

the l'nited sistes and remove

Coraunism from Cuba.

Unlike Castro, there

is

nothing in Ray's background to suggest

that ho is

connunist 08°

Cuba, especiall!

sympathizer.

A new government in

Ore

rose ain

is

to

rid Cuba of Communism,

will,

without question, ask the United States for econonic

assistance.

I fond to doubt if we will rroride this

assistance

without some caveat and the question remains

then whother Ray

would be willing to secept conditions to l'nited States aid.

I think he will for he will soon realize that without it he

vill have no alternative but. to turn to the Soviet Union anc

-- doubt it he will ho willing to continue the economie and

social chaos

so presalent in Cuba.

123T

RAytile

AR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ont

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

If the decision were mine, I nould surgest running an

nopration disillar 10 ile cre dsang Asbiblil.

We should

asic Ray to put together a list of people whom he would select

for certain government positions if Castro were overthrown.

It should not take long foi one to determine the type of an.

administration Ray would have. Each of the individuals he

lists could be checked to determine his political feelings

and his feelings toward the United States.

This is important.

In any case I would support him if for no other reason

to test his deternination,

strength and to gain further

knowledge of his political ambitions.

SISTET

---

