# 104-10165-10049

## Page 1

104-10165-10049

201

file

21 August 1961

BATT

CEr FORS A/DOP/A

SUBJECT

soverent, has bern willied by the agency since tato defea

Son as sn unsalaried propaçande agent, being paid only

expenses for the scriultios conducted at our request. Be has

producod radio prograno, tulan cours of Latin Amstica, and

mitten bis books for our Cuben eparations. On one of his

tours ba vas able to speak to che Fresidonça of Haduras,

Venesela, Ecundur, Argantine, and Uruguay, and mis electod

president of the Congress for Preedos and Denseracy bold

Last June la Scaterieso, Is 18 see the preaident of the

perzanent group sponsoring thane sungresses (which are faded

by the Agensy) Inosa as the "Allansa para Litertad" (AlllaDoe

fer LIbarty) Conco'a last trip took him to Montevideo for

the RC030C mating, where be hold press conferenees, spole en

and elain to have peten at sens length vich U. S. Aubassoder

Do the OA3, DeLeSSepS NesTison and Mr. Goodalm.

Lo Me connider Cents Aguara de be the moet effective

Onben propagandiot in anile and haviag a mignette sppeal

throughoug Latin insries. Be han been varionly descrbed a

"she atreagant voice of Cuba " (Tidal Castro), "the strongees

Volca of denocracy la Cabs" (Paritas, Buenos Alter), and the

"Cuben comentaton unea the presiege of lord 8. Murror and

tho Inting at Jach Fans" (Tine mgasino, 10r1l 1960).

So Conta Aguero 1111 he 1a Mashlaston en 21 Auguse de

report es his recent trip to penta dal Late and to diocuse ou

future plass for him. Je has toteated that bo u11l attamp

to son Amberoador Morrleen and M, Goodelo unile la the ares.

In aloo hna asked 11 ho could spent to a matos offlotal whe

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

• 2.

• dn a position to amlaln mur polleleal setson polloy ha

meaa docided. L0r tha Cuben anfles er vich sonsone uho ea

dincaos vith bím Canta'a Loasa sor pOlleleal acEson la eba

Cuben problem.

This Information en Conta Aguaro In ferwarded fer

your background Inforation 1n the event Messra. Morzioon or

Comrln check eut eubjeer with the Agenay. In addieies, the

Wootern Hedephire Diviaten 10 Freparud to artange & oteting

mith conte agnom 18 suet a contert la deslred by the A/DDP/A.

1S/ Ralord 71. Eiersert

RATORD W. HERBIIA

Aetlag Chia:

Wastera Henlephers Divleiea

(21 Aug 61)

DDP /WH/4/Plana

Dietrlbetim:

Or1go & 1 « Addressea

1 • AC/wEm

1

2

•C/va/4

WH/4/PA-Prop/

2 - 51/4/P1amg

SEBRET

1/SR

---

