# 104-10074-10201

## Page 1

1104-10074-10201

47883

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, WE

Chief. SR

515-17

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

DOCUMENT MICROFLAT SERV/CE

COFPA-

47353

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

MICROFILMED:

12%0Y

129-2-4

FROM

DATE

SUBJECT

Margarete naziPirimar

X.

ACTION REQUIRED

10C1

:319

RE: "43-3" - (CHECK "X"' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)

lichard

Pition a Pargarite adler

Attached is

a memorandum received 1 October from

We have no further information on Subjects.

ODENNY, 201708700)

Chief, ODENVY,

his counterpart ir

informed the undersigned that he had notified

and that no action was required from KUBARK.

3.

Incidentally, Chief, ODENVY,

Of support he had received from

commented on the good quality

on this case.

Enclosure:

Memo, h/w

1 October 1959

Distribution:

(w/encl - 1 copy)

Z - SR (w/encl - 1 copy)

(w/encl - 1 copy)

DUDLEY P. JENIONS

10467

741-108708-

FORM

10-58 53

(10)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

Si22 55350 ANS

1-28, 51.28A AND 51-29

CLASSIFICATION

GAIIDSNTIA

J CONTINUED

PAGE NO

---

## Page 2

14-00000

alice

• ..

Date:

Io:

From :

Subject:

October 1, 1959

JOHN PITIMAN;

MARGARETE ADLER PITTMAN

Neierence is made to letter Irom our headquarters

dated September 17, 1959, to the Offica of Security, Department

of state, a copy of which was designated for your headquarters.

PITIMAN, a male Negro, born September 17, 1906, at

Atlanta, Georgia,

his wife, MARGARETE ADLER PITTMAN, white, born October

an old-time Cormunist Party Official 7, 1919s

at Frankfurt-on-Main, Germany, a naturalized citizen, are

travolling with their two children and appear to ba on route

to Moscow, where it is belleved he intends to serve as corres

pondent for the "Worker", East Coast Conmunist publication.

She, Ilkowise, has been an active Communist.

Information has

been received that they intend to depart for Moscow on an

unspecified date shortly after their return to Paris.

will be furnished any additional information received regarding

their plans to travel to Moscow.

21-1857E

---

