# 104-10214-10033

## Page 1

104-10214-10033

"1967 IG Report"

(Unsanitized)

SECRET

R265

ON LOAN ONLY

RECEIVED FRON To Be Returned to

AN 1Z 1975

CIA

CIA

---

## Page 2

SECILI

"RAL IRITELLIGENCE AGENCY

VASHIAGTON, D.C. 20505

12 June 1975

Orge.

i?

IG REPORT

Unicaneties

Mr. Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr.

Chief Counsel

Senate Select Committee To Siady Governmental

• Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

United States Senate

Washingtoo, D.C. 20510

Dear Fritz:

Per your telephone request, the attached copy of the

IG Report is transmitted to you on loan for your use during

a hearing scheduled for this date.

We have not been able to locate any memorandum by

Mr. Helms on his meeting with the Attorney General in 1967. •

Should one be located, I will forward it immediately.

Please call me when you have finished with this material

and we will arrange to return it to our office.

Sincerely,

Walt Elder

Attachment: a/s

WASHING NOTICE

SERGIE!E INTALLIGENCE SOURCES

AND MATURES INCLICO

007789

E:.-216.

Ga -6e: 20:59e3 01.83. C8

Ad0=5I09115006198

+=0809 629-95

---

## Page 3

"'"PAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC'?

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

Ad Hoe Salt

75-907

SSC Mat furni

28 May 1975

: Mr. Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr.

Chief Counsel

Senate Select Committee To Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

United States Senate

Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Mr. Schwarz:

It is agreed that a version of the 1967 Inspector General's

report is available to you, on a loan basis, for your study prior

to riext week's Committee sessions.

The report should be stored in the secure areas of the Joint

Committee for Atomic Energy and is to be compartmented, with

access limited to Staff members cleared for such access.

Faithfully yours,

Esteroche

E. H. Knoche

Assistant to the Director

_014359

3.:-9: 89r 9:921

d=2=.19 23º C6B:63 48 E.O. 18312

MacaTina 5a::21': 15 (3). (3.13)

R0:9-2i:85.231919 e9

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Chari go un Pte from Whether at C

wht Here and Placed sin home on 26 gf78

---

## Page 5

SECRET-EYES ONLY

23 Msy 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Report on Plots to Ascassinate Fidel Castro

This report vas prepared at the request of the Director of

Central Intelligence.

He assigned the task to the Inspector

General on 23 March 1967. The report vas delivered to she Director,

personally, in installneuts, beginning on 24 April 1957. Tue

Director returned this copy to the Inspector General on 22 May 1967

with instructions that the Inspector General:

Retain 1t 1n personal, EYES OXLY safekeeping

Destroy the one burn copy retained temporarily by the

Inspector General

Destroy all notes and ottor source materials originated

by those participating in the vriting of the report

The one stayback burn copy, all notes, and all other derived

source materials vere destroyed on 23 May 1967.

This ribbon copy is the only text or the report now 1a existence,

either in whole or in part. Its text has been read only by:

Richard Helmô, Director of Ceniral Intelligence .

J. S. Earman, Inspector General

K. E. Greet, Inspector (one of the authors)

S. D. Brecktaridge, Inspector (one of the authors)

All typing of drafts and of Mnal text was done by the authors.

Filed with the report are:

Office of Security fIle used as source material

Memoranduns concerning Willian Harvey

Certain MONGOOSE papers

Drew Pearson columns

Inspector General

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 6

SECRET-EYES ONLY

OUTLINE

Introductory Section

MIscelianeous Schemes Prior to August 1960

Aerosol Attack on Padio Station

Contaminated Cigars

Depilatory

The Gambling Syndicate Operation

Pase 1 (August 1960 - May L961)

Phase 2 (Late 1961 - June 1963)

The Wiretapping Incident

The Phyll1s MoGuire/Attorney General Phase (Late 1961 - May 1952)

The Long Committee Phase (May - July 1966)

Schemes In Early 1963

Skin Diving Suit

Sea Shell

Project AMIASH - Rolardo Cubela (March 1961 - March 1966)

DIscussion of Assassination at High-Level Governent Meetings

Special Group (Augnented) Meeting of 10 August 1962

Special Group Meeting of 30 July 1964

The Ramifications of the Gambling Syndicate Operation

SECRET-EYES OLY

---

## Page 7

SECRET-EYES ONLY

TABLE OF CONJENTS

Page

Introductory Section

Scarcity of documentary evidence

Relationship of assassination planning to goverment policy

Risk of assissination when a goverrment is overthrown

Resort to synecdoche

Published intelligence on the possibility of Castro's demise

Accuracy of the story Drew Pearson has

Miscellaneous Schemes Prior to August 1960

Aerosol Attack on Radio Station •

Contaminated Cigars

Depilatory .....

Gambling Syndicate - Phase 1

Genesis of the plot .

First contact with Maheu

O'Connell lamed as case officer

Frot mecting with Roselli

Brefing of Dulles and Cabell

First meeting between Maheu and Giancana

True identitles of Glancana and Trafficante become know

Role of Trafficante

Early planning on the means of assassination

Gunn's Involverent with lethal cigars

_preparation of lethal cigars

Delivery of the cigars to Gunn

Roosevelt learns of the plot

Possible ways of packaging the poison

Decision to package the poison

in pill forn

Juan Orta is Identified as the syndicate's man in Cuba

Gunn tests the pills on guinea pigs . ..

Sequence preceding passing the pills

to

O'Connell

O'Connell receives

the pills and passes them to Roselll •

Harvey is briefed un the operation

Trafficante receives the pills and gives them to orta

Identification of Orte

The Orts channel collapses

Varona is brought into the operation

Edward K. Moss

Roselli associates O'Connell with CIA

Funds are approved for passing to Varona

Money and letbal pills are passed to Varona

Varona's restaurant contact in Cuba . .

Edwards calls off the operation

Disposition of the pills

List of those witting of the operation

10

11

23

14

SECRET-FYES NUIV

---

## Page 8

14-00000

3

C

SECRET-ETES ONLY

Page

Gambling Syndicate - Phase 2 .

Why Harvey was briefed on Phase 1

....

Harvey put in charge of the Executive Action Capability

Harvey briefs Helms on the Executive Action Capability.

@wIn- planned assassination of Lunumba

Approval of Projec: PRIFlE . . ..

.....

Bissell puts Harvey in charge of the Castro operation

Harvey is told he will head the Cuba task

force

- ..

Harvey's first reeting with Edwards on the Castro operation

Termination of Gilli. •

Harvey briefs Helms on the Castro operation

Diffcring views on the turnover to Harvey

Harvey's first meeting with Roselli in New York City

Rosell1 and O'Cornell go to Miami. ...

Harvey leaves for Miami vith lethal pilla

Rose:l1 1s already in touch with Verona.

liarvey takes over

"a going operation"

Changes In gangsier personnel participating

Maceo enters the operation

Harvey supplies veapons and equipment to Varona

Roselli reports that the pills are in Cuba

Varona sends a three-man team to Cuba . ..

Varona plans to send three militia ben to Cuba

Harvey and Rosell1 agree to terminate the operation

Roselli comes to hashington to reet Harvey

Harvey's meeting with Roseill observed by the FBI •

List of persons witsing of this phase of the operation

The Wiretapping Inciden:

Giancana suspects Phyllis McGuire and Dan Rowan

Glancans asks Maheu to bug Rowan'5 rUOm

Ilkely date of the bugging incident ..

Maheu asks Edward Du Bois to do the job

Du Bois assigns Balletti and Harrison to the job.

Wiretap made instead of microphone plant

Balletti is caught and phones Maheu for help.

Maheu refers the FBI to CIA

Shef Edwards meets with an FBI representative •

Edwards Intervenes with Sam Papich on Maheu's behalf

Houston interveres with the Justice Department. • •

Houston briefs Gereral Carter

Edwards and Houston brief the Attorney General. •

Edvards sends a nerorandu record of the meeting tu Kennedy

.. •

Gambling

• Syndicate - Phase 2 1s already under way •

Helms is briefed on the meeting with the Attorney General :

Edwards varns Harvey to clear with the DCI. . ..

Kennedy's request on i March 67 for a copy of the briefing memo

38

39

39

40

55

57

59

50

65

65

66

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 9

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Page

The Wiretapping Incident (continued)

Chicago Sun-Tees story of 16 Aug 63 re Glancana & CIA. . .....

67.

Chicago Dally News story of 20 Aug 63 re Giancana & CLA

Helms sends McCone a copy of the Kennedy briefing memo: andus. • •

69

Rumors now conuect. CIA & gangsters in plot to ki1l Castro

• 69

The Long Committee. . ...

c..............

Forcer Maheu employee colled to testify

The Onassis-Marchos fight over oil shipping rights . . . ....

72

Mabeu 1s hired by Narchos and is supported by CIA

72

CIA intervenes on Niarchos' behalf. •

.....

72

The Long Cormittee plans to resurrect the Onassis wiretap

CIA Intervenes with the Long Comittee on Maheu's behalf. . ...

72

73

Maneu appiles pressure on CIA to avoid publicity

73

Maheu indicates he may brief his attorney.

7%

Schemes in Early 1963. • •

75

Skin Diving Suit.

Gift from Donovan to

Castro

The suit is bought and made ready.

The plan is overtakin by events

List of persons witting:

Booby-trapped Sea Shell

Books on Mollusca are bought

The plan proves to be impracticable

Rames of those witting

75

75

75

75

76

T1

Project AMLASH - Rolando Cubela.

78

meeting with Cubela in Mexico City (Mar 61)

Cubela's role in the Cuban revolution

Cubela reported disaffected

Mexico City meeting inconclusive

Cubela and Juan Orta want to exfiltrate (Mar

• 61).

Cubela asks for meeting in Paris (Aug 61)

Cubela plans to attend Helsinki Youth Festival.

Meetings in Helsiaki (Aug 62)

Meetings in Stockholm

Cubela objects to the word "assassinate"

Paris meetings (Aug 62); S/w. & demolition training. • • •

Meetings In Porto Alegre (Sept 63)

Paris meetinzs (Oct 63); Cubela wants assurance fron U.S.Govt .

FitzGerald meets with Cubela in Paris (Oct 63)

Differing versions of what FitzGerald told Cubela

78

78

79

9

80

81

81

90

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 10

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Page

Project AMLASH - Rolando Cubela (continued)

Cuba ceche approved for Cubela. •

The Black Leaf 40 scheme: 1s discussed

Gunn converts a ballpoint pen into a hypode mic syringe •

91

92

9

3

Sanchez gives to Cubela in Paris while Kennedy Is sbot

Cubela asks for high-powered rifle with telescople sigbt.

Those wiring of the Black Leef 40 episode

9

Cubela cache put dem (Without rifles) (Mar 6i) .

Cubela requests a silencer for a FAL rifle

SAS reguests TSD to produce FAL silencer on crash basis

Second Cubela cache put dom (ulth FAL rifles) (June 64)

Artime seets Cubela internediary. . ..

98

Artine agrees to meet with Cubela personally

Sanchez beets Cubela in Paris (Nee 64). ..

99

• 100

Explanation of how Artime and Cubela were put togetber

100

Artime and Cubela meet in Madrid (Dec 6i) . .

101

Artime agrees to furnish silencer

102

Artime gives Cubela silencer and other special gear •

Second name-line between Cubela and gambling syndicate operation

103

10÷

Headquarters terminates all contacts vith Cubela group. ••

104

Cubele and others arrested; plead guilty (Mar 66)

107

The charges • •

Castro asks for leniency

= 94

108

109

Testimony about the silencer. •

109

Cubela expects to be executed

110

Cubela sentenced to 25 years' Imprisoment.

110

No mention made of Cubela's pre-Nov 64 dealings with CIA

1ll

Memo to Secretary of State (Rusk), Subjeet:

CIA Involve

ment in Cuban Counter-revolutionary Activities -

Arrest of Rolando CUBELA Secades and Paron Toras

GUIN Diaz,dated 7 March 1906 (added after completior

of report

....

138

SECRET-EYES ONEY

---

## Page 11

SECRET-EYES ONLY

C

25 Apr11 1967

MEMORANDUM

This reconstruction of Agency involvement in plans to

assassinate Fidel Castro 1s at best an Imperfect history. Because

of the extreme sensitivity of the operations being discussed or

attempted, as a natter of principle no official records vere kept

'of planning, of approvals, or of implementation. The few written

records that do exist are either largely tangential to the main

events or were put on paper from memory years afterward. William

Harvey has retained skeletal notes of his activities during the

years in question, and they are our lest source of dates. Dr.

Edward Gunn, of the Office of Medical Services, has a record of

whom he met and when and cryptic references to the subjects discussed.

of TSD, has a record of two or three dates that are

pertinent. Gunn and

were Involved la only the technical

aspects of operational planning, and their participations were short-

lived. Although fragmentary, their records are a help in establishing

critical time frames. Operational files are useful in some instances,

because they give dates of meetings, the substances of which may be

Inferred fron collateral Information.

For the most part, though, we have had to rely on information

Elven to us orally by people whose memories are fogged by time.

Their recollections of dates are particularly hazy, and sone of them

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 12

SECRET-EYES OMLY

are no longer able to keep the details of one plan separate from shore

of another. We Intervieved everyone whom we could identify as likely

to be knowledgeable, with the exceptions of Mr. Dulles and General

Cabell. A complete list 1s attached at Tab A. le did not go on

fishing expeditions among the mere possibles. To have done so would

have risked making witting a number of employees who were previously

witting and, in our estinate, would have added little to the details

available fron those directly involved. There are inconsistencies

among the various accounts, but most of them can be resolved by

collating the information furnished by all of the identifiable

participants in a perticuler plan and by then checking It against

specific dates that can be fired with fair certainty. We telieve

that this reconstruction of what happened and of the thinking

associated with it is reasonably sound. If there are significant

Inaccuracies in the report, they are most likely to occur in faulty

ordering of the sequence of events. People still remember much of

what happened, but they can no longer recall precisely when.

It became clear very early in our investigation that the vigor

with which schemes were pursued within the Agency to eliminate Castro

personally varied with the Intensity of the U.S. Goverment's efforts

to overthrow the Castro regime. We can identify fIve separate phases

In Agency assassination planning, although the transitions from one

..2.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 13

14-00000

to another are not alvays sbarply defined. Each phase is a reflection

of the then prevailing Goverment attitude toward the Cuban regime.

a. Irior to Auzust 1950: All of the Identifiable schemes

prior to about August 1960, with ose possible exception, vere

aimed only at discrediting Castro personally by influencing

his behaviour or by altering his appearance.

b. August 1960 to April 1961: The plots that were batched

In late 1960 and early 19ó1 vere aggressively pursued and were

viewed by at least some of the participants as being merely one

aspect of the over-all active effort to overthrow the regime

that culminated in the Bay of Pigs.

.C.

April 1961 to late 1961: A major scheme that was

begun in August 1960 was called off after the Bey of Ples and

remained dormant for several months, as did most other Agency

operational activity related to Cuba.

d. Late 1961 to late 1962: That particular schene was

reactivated in early 1952 and was again pushed vigorously in the

era of Project MONGOOSE and in the climate of intense admini

stration pressure on CIA to do something about Castro and his .

• Cuba.

e. Late 1962 unt1l vell 1nto 1953: After the Cuban missile

" Crisis Of October 1962 and the collapse of Project MONGOOSE, the

SERRET-EVES ONIV

---

## Page 14

SECRET-EYES ONLY

aggressive scheme that was begun In August 1960 and revived in

April 1962 was finally terminated in early 1963.. Tro other

plots vere originated in 1963, but both vere impracticable.

and nothing ever came of them.

•We cannot overemphasize the extent to which rerponsible Agency

Kennedy

'officers felt themselves subject to the administration's severe

pressures to do sorething about Castro and his regime. The fruitless

and, in retrospect, often unrealistic plotting should be vieved in

that light.

... Many of those ve intervleved stressed two points that are so

obvious that recording them here may be superfluous. We belleve,

though, that they are pertirent to the story. Elimination of the

'dominant figure in a goverment, even when loyalties are held to him

personally rather than to the goverment as a body, vill not

necessarlly cause the downfall of the government. This point vas

stressed with respect to Castro and Cuba in an Internal CIA draft

paper of October 1961, which was Initiated In response to General

Maxvel] Taylor's desire for a contirgency plan. The paper took the

position that the demise of Fidel Castro, from whatever cause, would

offer little opportunity for the liberation of Cuba fron Cummunist

and Soviet Bloc control. The second point, which is more specifically

relevant to our investigation, is that bringing about the downfall of

a goveriment necessarily requires the removal of its leaders fron

CFARFT- FYPS ONIV

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET -EYES ONLY

positions of pover, and there 1s alvays the risk that the partici

pants will resort to assussination: Such renovate from pover do-the

bouse arrest-of-8 Mossadeq or-che-flight.or a Batista-should not

Buse me to overlook the killirgs of a Dicn or of a Trujillo by

forces encouraged. but not controlled by-the U.S. Goverment.

There 15 & third point, nich wus not directly made by any of

those we intervieved, but which emerges clearly from the intervievs

and from review. of files. The mint is thet of frequent resort to

synecdoche-- the mertion of a part when the whole is to be understood,

or vice versa. Thus, ve encounter reptated references to phrases such

as. "disposing of Castro," which may be read in the narrow, literal

sense of assassinating him, when it is lniended that It be read in

the broader, figurative sense of dislodging the Castro regine.

Reversiag the coin, ve find people speaking vaguely of "doing sowe-

thing about Castro" when it is clear that what they have specifically

1n mind 18 k1lling him. In a situation wherein those speaking may

not have actually meant what they seemed to say or may not have said

what they actually weant, they should not be surprised 1f their oral

shorthand is interpreted differently than vas intended.

• The suggestion was made to us that operations aimed at the

assassination of Castro my have been generated in an atmosphere of

stress in Intelligence publications on the possibility of Castro's"

5=

SERDET-FVES NAIV

---

## Page 16

SECRET-EYES ONLY

denise and on the reordering of the political structure that would

follow. We revleved intelligence publications from 1960 through

1966, Including " Sonal Intelligence Estimates, Special National

Intelligence Estimates, Intelligence Memorandums, and Memorandums

for the Director. The NIE's on "Ihe Situation and Prospects in Cube"

'for 1950, 1953, and 196% have Urief paragraphs on likely successor

governments if Castro were to depart the scene. We also find similar

short references in a SNIE of March 1950 and in an Intelligence

Memorandur of May 1965. In each case the treatment is co more nor

less than one would expect to find in comprehensive round-ups ruch

as these. We conclude that there. is no reason to believe that the

operators were undulg Influenced by the content of intelligence

publications.

Drew Pearson's column of 7 March 1967 refers to a reported CIA

plau In 1963 to assassinate Cuba's Fidel Castro. Pearson also has

Information, as yet unpublished, to the effect that there was &

meeting at the State Department at which assassination of Castro

was discussed and that a team actually. landed in Cuba with pills to

be used in an assassination attempt. There is basis In fact for each

of those three reports.

a. A CIA officer passed an assassination weapon to an

Agency Cuban asset at a meeting in Paris on 22 November 1963.

The veapon was a ballpolnt pen rigged as a hypodermic syringe.

6

CFANFT-FVES ONIV

---

## Page 17

SECRET-EYES ONLY

The CIA officer suggcated that the Cuban asset luad the syringe

with Black Leaf 40. The evideace indicates that the meeting

was under way at the very moment President Kennedy was shot.

• b. There was a meeting of the Special Group (Augmented)

In Secretary Russ's conference room on 10 August 1962 at which

Secretary Mcfanara broached toe subject or liquidation of

Cuban leaders. The discussion resulted in a Project MONGOOSE

action memorandum prepared by Edward Lansdale. At another

Special Group meeting on 31 July 196 there vas discussion of

& recently-disseminated Clandestine Services Infornation report

on a Cuban exile plot to assassinate Castro. CIA had refused

the exile's request for funds and had no involvement in the plot.

•Co CIA twice (frst 1r. early 1961 and agaln in early 1962)

eupplied lethal jills to U.S. gambling syndicate members working

1a behalf of CIA on a plot to assassinate Fidel Castro. The 19ói

plot aborted and the pills vere recovered.. Those furnished in

April 1962 were passed by the gambling syndicate representative

to a Cuban exile leader in Florida, who In turn had them sent to

Cuba about May 19F2. In June 1962 the extle leader reported that

a team of three men had been dispatched to Cuba to recruit for the

operatios. If the opportunity presented Itseif, the team would

make an attempt on Castro's life--perhaps using the pills.

-7.

---

## Page 18

SECRET-EYES ONLY

This report describes these and other episodes in detail; puts them

into perspective; and reveale, lat while the events described by

Drew. Pearson did occur and are subject to being patched together

as though one complete story, the Implication of a direct, causative

relationship among then is unfounded.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 19

14-00000

C

SECRET -EYES ONLY

Miscellaneous Schemes Prior to August 1960

March to August 1960

We find evidence of at least three, and perhaps four; schemes

that were under consideration.well before the Bay of Pigs, but we

can fix tbe time frame only speculatively. Those who have some

knowledge of the episodes guessed at dates ranglog from 1959 through

1961. The Maria-to-August span ve have fixed may be too narrow, but

1t best. fits the limited evidence we have.

8. None of those ve interviered who was first assigned to

the Cuba task force after the Bay of Pigs knows of any of these

ECheme B.

D. J. D. (Jake) Esterline, who was head of the Cuba tasis

force in pre-Bay of Pigs days, is probably the most rellable

witness on general timing. He may not have been privy to the

precise details of any of the plans, but he seems at least to

have known of all of them. He is no longer able to keep the

details of one plan separave from those of another, but each of the

facets be recalls fits somewhere into one of the schemes.

Bence,

we conclude that all of these schemes vere under consideration

while Esterline bad direct responsibility for Cuba operations.

c. Esteritne himself furaishes the best clue as to the

9

SCRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 20

SECRET-EYES ONLY

porsible time span. He thinks It unlikely that any planning

of this sort would have progressed to the point of consideration

of means until after U.S. policy concerning Cuta was decided

upon about March 1960. By about the end of the third quarter

of 1960, the total energies of the task force were concentrated

on the main-thrust effort, and there would have been no. interest

In nor time for pursuing such wills-o'-the-visp as these.

We are unable to establish even a tentative sequence among the schemes;

they may, in fact, have been under consideration simultaneously. We.

find no evidence that any of these schemes was approved at any

level higher thas division, 1f that. We think it most Ilkely that

no higher-level approvals vere sought, because none of the schemes

progressed to the point where approval to launch would have been

needed.

Aerosol Attack on Radio Station

of TSD, remembers discussion of a scheme to

contaminate the air of the radio studio vhere Castro broadcast his

speeches with an aerosol spray of a chemical that produces reactions

similar to those of ljsergic acid (LSD). Nothing came of the 1dea.

said he had discouraged the scheme, because the chemical

could not be relied upon to be effective.

also of TSD,

• 10-

CEODET_EVEC ASIlV

Kennis cher et

---

## Page 21

14-000

SECRET-EYES ONLY

recalls experimentstion with psychic energizers but cannot relate 1t

to Castro as a target. We found no one else who remembered anything

of this plot, vith the possible exception of Jake Esterline who

may have it confused with other schemes.

Contamirated Cigars

Jake Esterline claims to have bad in his possession in pre-Bay

of Piga days a box of cigars that had been treated with some sort

of chemical. In our first interview vith him, his recollection vas

that the chemical was intended to produce temporary personality.

disorientation. The thought was

to somehow contrive to have Castro

mose one before making a speech and then to make a publie spectacle

of himself. Esterline distinctly recalls having had the cigars 1n

his personal safe until he left will and that they de faitely vere

Intended for Castro. He does not remember how they came into his

possession, but he thinks they must have been prepared by

In a second Interview with Esterline, we mentioned that ve had learned

since first speaking with him of a scheme tó cause Castro's beard to

fall out. He then said that his cigars might have been associated

vitis that plan. Esterline flnally said that, although it was

evident that he no longer remembered the intended effect of the

cigars, he was positive they were not lethal. The cigars vere never

11 -

SFARFT-FIES NNIV

---

## Page 22

C.

3

SECRET -EYES ONLY

used, according to Esterline, because wa/ could not figure out how

to deliver them without danger of blowback on the Agensy.

He says

he destroyed them before leaving Wife In June 1961.

Sidney Gottlie, of ISD, claims to remember distlactly a plot

Involving cigars. To empbasize the clarity of his menory, he named

the officer, then assigned to Ha/CA, who approached him with the

scheme. Although there may well have been such a plot, the officer

Gottlieb named was then assigned in Indis and has never worked in

WE Division nor had anything to do vith Cuba operations. Gottlleb

remembers the scheme af being one that was talked about frequently

but not videly and as being concerned with killing, not merely with

Influencing behaviour. As far as Gottlieb knows, this idea never

got beyond the talking stage. ISD nay bare gone ahead and prepared

the cigars just in case, but Gottlleb is certain that be did not get

the DD/p's (Richard Bissell) personal approval to release them, as vould

have been done 1f the operation had gone thet far. We are unable to

discover whether Esterline and Gottlleb are speaking of e single

cigar episode or of two unrelated schenes. He found no one else vita

firm recollections of lethal cigars being considered prior to August

1960.

- 12 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 23

14-0000

SECRET-EVES ONLY

Depilator!

recalle a scheme involving thallium salts, a

chemical used by women as a depilatory--the thought being to destroy

Castro's inage as "The Bearl" by causing the beard to fall out.

The chenical may be administered either orally or by absorption

through the skin..

The right dosage causes depilation; too much

produces paralysis.

believes that the idea originated in

connection with a trip Castro was to have made outside of Cube. The

1dea "as to dust thallium powder into Castro's shoes when they were

put out at night to be shined. The scheme progressed as far as

procuring the chemical and testing it on animels.

recollection is that Castro did not make the intended trip, and

the scheme fell through.

remembers consideration

being given to use of thallium salts (perhaps against Castro) and

something having to do with boots or shoes.

does not

remember with than he dealt on this plot. We found no one else

with firm knowledge of 1t.

- 13-

CFORET-EVES ANIV

---

