# 104-10308-10157

## Page 1

104-10308-10157

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

Er. ONLY/:

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SYBJECTs. (Optional)

FROM:

TEW/FI/SLD

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NO.

DATE

UFGA - 4948

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building!

1.

TEW/REgistry

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1ASipt

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

MT

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

please send to

appropriate

file.

3.

19-120-18.••

TFW/PM

TENd/ PA-DROP

8. 20t

10.11°

11.

12:

18 Ju s

14.

dire

15

: FORM

FORE So 610 USEPRENOUS

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

GPO 1 961-0-593644

---

## Page 2

13-00000.

SEC

i do 't

No

repart

- 110. 11-1314

1" July 1902

• AMeT-21.0A00e.2

SUBJECT:

Interview of Juan FALCON Tanar, under arrest in Cuba, alleged National

Coordinator of the "lovimiento de Iccupcracion Revolucionaria" (MoR. Ro)

in Cuba®

SOURCE:

Cuban "RADIO REBELDE" station, 17 July 1962, 8:00 11i.

The prisonor is introduced by Luis GOlls& Wanguemert, and the panel of

newspapermen is composed by: Carlos FiANQUI, Director of "REVOLUCION" newspayci,

and ilaul VALDES Vivo, jub-Director of "I0Y" newspaper.

GOMEZ:

You are here before newspapermen to answer questions out of your own free

will, or have been coerced in any way to come tonight?

FALCON:

Completely voluntarily.

GONEL: Then vould you like to make us a narration of your activities in the h.i.h.

FALCON: The M•Rell. Was founded in late 1959 by Manuel AllIE and a scries of other

elements. In those days I began as a rank member, working in the propaganda

field. I used to write a bit in the newspaper of the Movement, and also

distributed the newspaper and other things, and more or less in that way.

Of that period I have little to say because I was a rank member and had

no access to the plans of the Movement. After Giron, after the 17th of

April Playa Giron Invasion, most of the members of the exceutive of the

Movement wont into asylum or left Cuba. Then those of us who were rank

members passed to occupy the positions of the directive to try to reorganize

it. In this case I entered the directive of the Movement. It is then that

I can talk with more details about the directive of the Movement. I think

that you should ask me about something specifically.

FRANQUI: After Playa Giron you entered the direction of the Mi.?.R., and what position

did you first occupy in that direction?

FALCON:

First I was Organization Secretary and lator I becane the National Director

of the Movement.

FRANQUI: What main counterrevolutionary

activities did you /plural/ accomplish after

Playa Giron?

FALCON

We ongaged in porforming a sories of sabotages, such as burning the "Petro-

quimica" of Cotorro.

A plan to destroy national transport in general.

We destroyed 3 buses of route 33.

We also had a plan for the systematic

destruction of the econony which includod, among other things, the poisoning

of cattle.

SECKET

i!!?

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET.

11-131, 13 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

GOlIEZ.:

that can you toll.us about the assassination attumpt against Carlos lafael

RODRIGUEZ?

FALCON:

We learned through the newspapers that Carlos lafacl was going to give a

lecture in the "Fausto" theater of latanzas. We surmised that he was going

to go by the Via Blanca highway and we set up a surveillance. then Carlos

Rafael left an automobile of ours was traveling ahead of him and made a sign

to an individual whon we had posted on the highway, indicating that Carlos

Rafael's automobile was coming behind. Then the individual triid to

Intercept the automobile and he was shot at, with the known results that the

individual whom we had posted there was killed.

VALDES:

You have said something in rolation to countcrevolutionary activities.

Who organized those activitios? Was thore sone conncction botrcen the l'..ell.

and the Central Intolligence Agency?

FALCON:

At first during a stage ve thought... Let me explain a bit in detail.

le thought that ve could carry out this fight alone, but little by little

we became avare that we were falling into the hands of the North American

Government and that they helped us, not with disinterest but with the

interest of again controlling the Republic as they had controlled it until

I January 1959.

GOMEZ:

And how far did the intervention of the Central Intelligonce Agency reach

in the Hovement which you directed?

FALCON: Well, it reached quite a high degree. For crample, to appoint a diroctive

in recent days, or the chief of a national secrotariat of the lovement, we

had to make a consultation over there to see if they approved or disapproved

the individual. Another crample which I could givo you so that you might

realize the degrec of subjection which we have reacied with rogard to thor,

is that in the problen of communications we had alvays boon concerned with

being able to communicate with the lovement abroad, that is, with the fir

in exile. For this objective once ve thought of buying radio and radio

telegraphy equipment to communicate directly vith them over there. llowever,

we could not do it because the poople from over there told us that if the

Americans would learn that we vere communicating with then directly vithout

counting on the C.I.do that we were going to have a vig problum and that

they would cut off all assistance. To communicate over there we had a

telegraphy plant, radio-telegraphy, which connunicated directly with a C.I.A.

-2=

BECILT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

11-134, Lü Jul U2, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

vase. Then through this base ve would pass the messages which we wanted

to send to the Movement. Out of that message the Americans would tell what

they wanted to the members of the lovement, and keep to themselves what they

did not want to say. And if

they wanted our people could not send a message

to us from over there. In view of this we tried to stablish direct

conmunications without C.I.A. intermediation. However, it was not possible

for us to do this. Apparently they did not permit it.

FRANQUI: You said that you had become organizud because you were going to fight against

the revolution of the people.

FALCON:

Yes.

FLANQUI: ind then you referred to the intervention of imperialisn's C.I.A. When did

that happen? Bofore Playa Giron oi after?

FALCON: Well, an exact date cannot be dotermined. It was rather a gradual process

which grew nore and more. And lately ve vere practically.... Well, later

they convinced us that the fevolution was practically invincible.

GOMEZ: And to what do you attribute the invincibility of the Revolution?

FAICON: To a very large popular support.

VALDES: You speak of tie connection with the Central Intelligence Agency. What

resources was thu C.I.A. facilitating to you?

FAICON:

Well, in the first place it gave us moncy. Part of the money with which ve

functioned we raised hore, and part camc from over thore at first. By this

time practically everything was coming fron over there.

FRANQUI: Did the collections which you have over here decrcase?

FALCON: Yes. For example, another connection is a tclegraphy plant, the one which

I mentioned previously and which we used to communicate with them over there.

Facilities to exfiltrato persons fron Cuba, that is, clandestine elchents,

individuals who were "burned". This was on the basis of ships which cane to

picks them up and many promises of arms, sabotage matcrials, and anotior

scries of things.

GOMEZ:

You mentioned ships. Wat kind of ships?

FALCON:

Well, some boats which cone hore.

GONEL:

Did they come here to the coasts of Cuba?

FALCON: Yes.

GO-LEZ:

there did they cone from?

FALCON: From Miami.

GOri EZ:

Hanned by whom?

-3-

• E T

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

BLANCO. (cont.)

FALCON: Well, in some cases by menbers of thu hovoment, and in other cases by

North incricans®

THANQUI: You mentioned communications. What type of cquipment did the c.I.A. give you?

FALCON:

A telegraphy

equipment of the onus which they use for their espionage

activities in other countries. It is a non commercial tclegraphy equipment.

A small equipment which can operate practically anywhere. le uscd this

to communicate with over there on the basis of a telography system in code

diroctly to a C.I.A. base.

VALDES:

And what about the assassination plot against Major "aul CASTRO with the

participation of Guantanamo Naval Base?

FALCON:

Well, that was the 26th of July of last year. That wasn't specifically a plan

of ours. It was a plan inventod by the C.I.A. with the participation of some

organizations, ours wasn't the only onc. The plan contemplated various parts.

That 1s, it contemplated an assassination attempt against Fidel and the

Cabinet which was going to gather in the Civic Plaza on the 26th of July of

last year. On the other part it included an assassination attempt against

Raul CASTRO in Santiago de Cuba and nother series of sabotages corrclated to

this, such as paralyzing the lectric Company, a self-aggression in

Guantanamo Naval Base, and a fow other smaller scale things.

FRANQUI: And there was no participation in the plans to burn the "Petroquimico" of

Cotorro?

FALCON: Yes, that was done by our organization.

GOMEZ: Could you give me an explanation about the sabotage of the "Petroguimica"

of Cotorro?

FALCON:

well, thore ve used matorials manufactured by us. Practically no materials

received from abroad, that is from the U.S-, were used there. A chemical

preparation of some capsules which burned inmediately was made.

GOLIEZ:

FALCON:

What other sabotage plans did you have?

That of destroying some "Compania de Omnibus Aliados" bus company plants.

We have the plan for the systomatic destruction of the econony, which

contemplated, anong other things as I already told you, poisoning cattle

with potasium cyanide.

VIVO:

And how did you burn buses?

• FAICON: With incendlary cigarctte cases.

VIVO:

Simulating cigarette packs?

FALCON: Yes, more or less.

---

## Page 6

13-0000

: SEC

A1-134, 18 Jul Ú2, COrIOS BLAICO (cont.)

FiNQUI: You have mentioned a serios of countorrevolutionary actions performed ly

you.. You have mentioned that you had a certain succoss in that of cotorro.

You failed in the assassination attempt of Carlos Rafacl and could not

accomplish the assassination attempts of the leading figures of the Revolution

Which causes prevented you iron accomplishing them?

FALCON: lie didn't have tine. The jepartment of security of the State arrested

practically all

of uS.

FRANQUI: But thoso assassination plots happened in different times.

FALCON: No, we vero planning that now.

FRANQUI: But; for oxample, that assassination attent vith the participation of

organization by thu C.I.A., and in which various counterrevolutionary organ-

izations participated, such as the one of the 2óth of July. What prevented

its acconplisiment?

FALCON:

The same rcason. The Department of Sccurity of thi State arrosted all key

individuals a for days carlicr

GOLIEZ:

That is, in various cases and in various sabotago plans vich you nad, the

Department of Security of the State anticipated you and arrested those vio

vore in couplicity to accomplish them?

FAICON: In many of then.

PiLANQUI: You used to face many difficultios. regarding the accomplishmont of these

plans. How did you feel? lasn't it dirficult for you to accomplish these

actions?

FAICON: Well, a plan must be studica and an attonpt must be made to carry it out.

That is, a surveillance of the individual must do set up and see what is tie

most appropriato place to carry it out, and see whether it is possible or not.

FLANQUI: jes, that is natural in any type of action of that nature. But I vas roferrin:

to the fact that the percontage of actions which you have acconplished is vory

small, and hot

you attonpted many, and you say that one of the causes is that

the Departrient of Security of the Stato intervened in time. But is there any

othor cause which provented you from accouplishing

counterrevolutionary

activities?

FALCON:

Well, in

gencral a scries of difficultics, such as the discouragement anong

the ranks of the movement.

F:LANQUI: Caused by what?

FALCON:

Causoú by the subjection to the liorti Anerican Contral Intelligenco Agency.

Undoubtedly,

were fighting not with the idea of being subjected to a

SECHT

---

## Page 7

13-000

• A1-134, 10 Jul u2, Carl

do BLAICO (cont.)

forcign povor to whom in the futuro ve vould again have to surrender the

nation to thone This hul; which they would promise to give us and which

they gave

us gradually, was being conditioned. That is, it way be said

that we naively thought they would give it to us with disinterest, that is,

without asking anything in return. But later ve rcalized that it wasn't so,

that they wore giving us this help in exchange for something, in exchange

that in the future ve would surrender our sovereignty and our nation to thin

For this reason arose a sort of discouragement anong the ranis of the lovement

until about the end of last year we even thought of dissolving the lovcment

completoly

FRANQUI: But the Playa Giron failure wasn't also a detormining factor?

FALCON:

Yes, Playa Giron was one of the determining causes. That is, the destiny

of North Anorican Imperialisn was also scen in Playa Giron.

FRANQUI: Although it was also seen how popular it is to fight against the devolution.

FALCO: Yes, exactlä" yout ayaivan Invasion which was crushed in less than 12 hours.

GalEx: And when/pouxariyad at the conclusion that you were sorving as instrument

of the United Statos and of Ilorth American Imporialisu?

FALCON:

Well, already quite sono time ago. The problen is that one occomes avare of

it but it secus that it is too late to turn bac: I would li: to stress

this. Basically that is one of the reasons why I asked to como herc.

The

majority of the conspirators. who arc now on the streets, the rank members

of our lovenent who are still on the strects, have a diffcient idea about tic

fight. That is, they think that we are not really what ve are, a branch of

the Worth American Central Intelligenco Agency. Then they think that and .

continue in the fight. Hovover, those of us vio are in the dircction,

and I say that for my case spocifically, when I was a rani wenbor of the

Movement and ongagcd in distributing propaganda, When I would spond the

entire day distributing propaganda fron horning tild night, and when I

finished I beliovod that I had done a great doal for Cuba, I believed that

I had worled torribly hard for Cuba and that I had donc the best which I

could and had been vorking for a just cause. then I becanc a dircctive of

the Movement I realized that it vasn't so, and now I rualize that te were

completoly subjected to North Ancrican Imporialism and that we vorc not going

to attain any of the ideas, any of the objoctives for which we wire fighting.

- 6=

SECIOT

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECKET

• 11-134, 13 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

VIVO:

Of course, it isn't nocessary to say that us conrades here believe in

the candor of the mmiers of that countorrovolutionary organization as nuch

as we believe in the disinterost of the Central Intclligence Agency. In

order to avoid entering into an unnecessary debate we want to spocify that

you have spolen of assassinations, of sabotages against popular oconomy.

Vhat participation have you had in the assistance of bands of insurgents

who made the Escambray a lnife....of the country?

FALCON:

Well, practically the same participation as the other organizations. That is,

1f we could give a basically financial assistance, because ve had nothing

else, we would give it to them, if ve were able.

FRANQUI: But you mentioned hore that the collections which you obtained fron internal

counterrevolutionary groups had greatly decreasca, because you had to resort

more each time to the nely which you receivid from the Unitod States. In what

form did you reccive that assistance?

FALCON:

The assistance was roceived on the basis of changes, that is, change

operations. They would placo "z" dollars over thore to a private individual

over there and we received the equivalont here from another individual.

FRANQUI: They! Whom?

FALCON: The Americans.

VIVO: How did the change of currency affect these operations?

FALCON: Well, at that time it didn't affect us very nuch. We changed practically

all the money which the Movement had. We put all the militants of the lovemen

to change money.

FRANQUI: In llavana, did Lthe docrease off your collections have anything to do vith

the fact that the elements of the rich and bourgeois class left for the U.S?

FALCON: I thin: that in a large part.

FLANQUI: That is, you roccived money from rich peopls?

FALCON: Kes.

FINQUI: And when those people left you had less collections?

FALCON: Practically, yes.

VIVO:

Do you want to say soncthing about psychological varfare, about the problch

of the rumors?

FALCON: Yes. I am going to say something about the propaganda of that affair of

parental authority over children. In genoral wo had a big particivation

in that affair because ve sinecrely launched a propaganda campaign trying

to male then desporate with that runor wich had becn started regarding

parental authority

1-7-

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-0000

•SECALT

A1-134, 17 Jul U, CarlOS BLANCO (cont.)

GOREE:

G6136:

Do you now this instrun int?

InCon: Yos, it is a stan for falo: drivr's licons..

That is, for the forgory of this tyge of drivin's license. ind this type

of diiv.r's liconses whici you used, whore was it made, hore or in the U.S?

FALCON: In the U.s.

Goils:

It vas sent to you by the sential Intelligence igoncy?

FALCON: Yos.

FRANQUI: You have montioned a sorics of activitics regarding uplosives, assistance,

conmunications, you also saiu that the plans had to be discussed by the C.I.A.:

training of directives, and you also mentioned the poisoning of livestock.

Could you give us an coplanation?

FALCON: You linow that there is a noat shortage and that this is a problom not faced

by the revolution. Then we tried to cooperate to that. that is, it is

sort of a plan to systomatically destroy the econony.

FALCON: That is preciscly what I vanted to cone to, because no one paid any attention

to Reinold.

Then cveryone thought that up to a certain point koinold had not

been sincere.

That is, that he

had cone horc cocreed by the lepartment of

security of tic state to make that appearance.

GOE'Z:

Do you allo!: me a question? Do you havo a diffurent opinion now?

FALCON: Completely different?

Galiz: Why?

FALCON: In view of the treatment which I have reccived in the Dopartment of jecurity

of the State and in vier of the nuthods which I have scon them uso. icinold

said that he nad been undor surveillance for sin months, and no one bclieved

it. No one bolieved that a national coordinator of the movement vould be

kupt six months on the streets under surveillance. I can affiril that I nave

been under surveillance for nine months. In the Department of security of tic

State they proved my life since nine nonths ago. They have told me things,

such as the brand of cigarottes which I smoud up to the movic thcater vich

I usually visited.

FiANQUI: I want to say something to you, iccause nayb. now another counterrevolutionary

deceived

aS

you say or believe, is going to thin' about you the same which you

thought about

Reinold. Then e are going to leave the evidence for the neist

time when you conc here, becauso little by little everyone has seen how all

counterrevolutionary organizations arc boing liquidated by the revolution.

That is, in the und what matters is not the appicciation of what you said or

did not say, what matters are the prosentations.

SE €

---

## Page 10

13-00000

•SaCKET.

Ai-131, li Jul 02, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

FALCON: I beliuve, ine raNQUI, that when they see those

two cases pople will pay

noic attuntion to us.

FRANQUI: But it isn't two cases. There are nany more. They triod to rise in the

iscanbray and they wero crushed. They can: to Playa Giron and they were

crushed. They attompted sabotages in "il Incanto" store, utc. and thoy vere

liquidatod. einold cane and he was liquidated. They have attemptod to

infiltrate through different parts of tho country and have boon liquidated.

so 'it isn't two

cases, but nany morc.

FALCON:

But look; the problem of the individual who is now conspiring in the strcets

is that he cannot turn back. That is, no has only two vays out: leave the

country or try to continuc fighting to sec if ie vins.

GONEX:

You balieve that they have another vay out in adition to thosu tio?

FALCON: I an sure they do. The Departmont of Security of the State is not intorested

in conducting a nassiv. repression or nothing like that. that they vant is

that the individual stop conspiring, and if they don't bother them, they

won't bother the individuals.

FRANQUI: In addition to that I believe that there is another vay out for then,

that

of being captured by the Department of Security of the state.

FALCON:

VIVO:

Well, if they continue conspiring.

You witnessed the IV appearance of reinold GONZALEz. He mentioned the

effectiveness of the Dofense Committees. Can you also say this?

FALCON:

Absolutely. They proved ny activities 9 nonths back.

VIVO:

You saw Reinold GONZALEZ on television. After that apparance have you seen

Reinold since you have been under arrest?

FALCON: Yes, I have had opportunities to talk to him.

GOMEZ:

You have become convinced that he came here spontaneously and that he really

declared what he wished to declare?

FALCON:

Well, It isn't that I an convinced, I have also conu hure spontancously to

declare.

FRANQUI: cll, you also say that a great part of that difficulty has boon creatod by

the Defense Comnittoes?

FALCON: Yes.

FRANQUI: Hould you like to give ne a practical example?

FAICON: Well, I can't really give you a practical cample. What I can say is that

they proved activitios of mine nine months ago. Thuy have told mo when I

arrived there fron the brand of cigarettos which I smoled up to the novic

theater where Iually went. That is, not only about ne, but about all the

=9-

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRE

11: 134, 13 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont. ›

nombors of the direction of the movemont.

FuNgUI: You spoko of the dircetion and you spoke of members. What is the situation

of your organization after this last round up?

FALCON: Completcly destroyca.

GOriEZ: You told us before that there was a certain distrust betvoon the Central

Intolligence Agency and the members of the group which you dirccted in CUba.

What can you tell us about this?

FALCON:

Practically alriost all the dircotion, and ve received instruçtions to luave

Cuba in order to conduct an investigation.

GOMEZ:

And you did not reccive instructions to usc coercive methods to take to the

U.S. some which might not want to

до?

FAICON: Yes•

GOLIEZ: Who, for oxample?

FALCON:

The Finance Coordinator. If he did not wish to go of his own frec will, that

he was not told why he was going. He was told that he was going to take

training, but 1f he did not wish to go of his own free will he had to be

kidnapped and talen out.

VIVO:

And if he refused to go?

FALCON: The instructions which they had was to kill hi.

VIVO:

To kill hin although he vas a colleague?

FALCON: Yos•

VIVO: You have mentioned the denoralization cristing in your organization and in

the counterrevolution in general. What opinion do you have regarding the

vossibilities of the counterrevolution in the fight against the Cuban cople?

FALCON: I boliove that they are practically null at this moment. I beliove that no

one can do anything to overthrow the iovolutionary Governient of Cuba at

this tine.

Therefore, our struggle has practically no rcason of boing and

in

a cortain aspick it is evin Immoral because what we are causing is a seric:

of material losses and loss of lives which we have no right to causc.

PiANOUI: It's a pity that you con't iccone convineed of that until jou are in prison.

PALCON:

vell, I hadn't bicone convinco: before. Liie I said, the problen is that I

thought there was no othcr vay out, and this is tho case of many of those vio

are now conspiring.

You Were porsonally in contact with C.I.i. agents, veren't you:

TALCOH:

Yes.

-10-

---

## Page 12

13-00000

m-1gr, 1: Jul 18, Carlos Dunco (conta)•

Cades:

That is, you had the opportunity to tol! to th.n and study their viewpoints.

Wai do jou thin: voro thir obj ctives in cubar

for that objectives

NUIC

you used?

"ALCON:

: The basic objoctive of thu North dncricans at this time is not to solve tho

Cuban problom but to produce a state of agitation and alain here. That 1s,

to use us for thosc objuctivas so that they can acconplish a propaganda

campaign throughout Latin Ancrica and upcak of the horros of the Communist

Government of Cuba. Tuat is the objoctive which they pursue:

You were. all used as cannon fodder.

FRANQUI: Why is the countorrovolutionary movement t0 which you belong named of

Rocuperation?

FALCON: Well, the lord indicates to recover or rocupurät, the revolution.

ragul: ell, but we iccovered iron imperialisn uverything that it used to tale avay

from our country. Then you vore going to rccover from the revolution that wi

took away from imperialism?

FALCON:

No, that is an entirely difforont idea. Vell, it is a different concept.

GOri Exe:

Do you think that the word "recuperation" was not well chosen?

FALCON: Vell, that depends from the viewpoint. Gradually we became convinced that ve

verc not recovering, that ve vore recovering for the Americans.

GOrEZ:

Can you tell us about the treatmont which you have received whilc you havo

been under arrest in the Department of Security of the state?

FALCON:

• Excollont. I can practically say that I have nover folt like a prisonci.

Do you think that this

is a personal or special treatnent for you?

FALCON:

No, it has been for all the nembors of our novoment, that is, a goneral

treatment. ‹ believe that it is a metter of principlos of

the Department

of Security of the state.

VIVO:

As you explained, you arrived at the dircction of that organization wich

pretended to recover the impossible past for our country, after Playa Giron.

And how did you thin' that you vere going to win, repeating laya Giron or

through the diroct intervention of North American Larines?

FALCON:

Ve thought that ve could do it internally without thoir icly. That was

practically an absurd thing.

FiLANGUI: low are you going to think that 1f you couldn't do it with their help and

your participation?

FALCON:

They didn't let us lnow.

Voro you an isolatud novement or did jou have contact vith other counter-

revolutionary groups in Cuna or outsido Cuba?

FALCON: It was practically an isolated novoment.

i-11-

3ce?

---

## Page 13

13-000g0

• ії Сʼі її ?

14-134, 10 Jul U2, CarlOS BLANCO (cont.)

but did you git toguther vith othur groups to pifor spociiic actions

with other groups?

TACON :

well, I alrcady said that tie action of the 2uti was done together with

Othur organizations.

FUNGUI: One oi your main Icaders cane to Playa Giron.

PiLCO: Xes, thi Jucrotary. General of the iovonent, ii. Manuul Alli.

FUQUI: And iir. lianuel AlMIiS didn't let you know cithor?

FALCON:

No; becausc communications wore in thi hands of th. Muricans.

VIVO:

Yes, It's clear, they weren't advised. Do you have in this organization the

same position of ARTIME?

FAICON: No. ANTIlE was the Secretary Genoral.

VIVO:

1h0 direts th civilian part over there?

FALCON: Our delegato abroad is Mi. Josc Ignacio LAüiGA.

VIVO: As you have plained hero, the Central Intelligence Agency is the organizer,

the financial sponsor, the onc who gives dircet and specific orders, and who

gives pistols, silencers, radios, dollars, etc. to the organizations. Do you

know that the Central Intelligenco Agency was the organizer of the Playa Giron

Invasion?

FALCON: Yos.

VIVO: And did you know: that a new invasion of Cuba vas again being organized from

more than 20 canps established in the United States, Nicaragua, Guatemala,

Venezuela, and other countries.

FALCON: Wo didn't know that.

VIVO:

You didn't know about any other invasion? You did not cipect a now invasion

of Cuba?

FALCON: No. Not in specific terms, but in general lines yus. We wore convinced

that internally wo could not ovorthrow the Government, and that it has to

ve externally on the basis of an invasion.

FILANQUI: Do you think that the C.I.A, vas going to be satisfiod with sending two or

three agents to you to organize thosc radio conversations?

FALCON:

For their objectives of creating a state of agitation here, yos.

VIVO:

Iou already described that the C.I.A. was provosing to invade Cuba again.

What do you think would happen in casc of an invasion?

FALCON:

Vell, if the other one was crushed in 72 hours, I think that this one will

have the same fatc.

-12-

---

## Page 14

13-00000

ra-ast, an Jul riz, Carld

BLAICO (cont:)

Do you, Juan Macon tomas, have anything to add to thu roplies which you

have given to the neuspapermen mombers of this panel? Do you have any other

declaration to make?

FALCON:

YeS.

I wanted to stross and mali an exhortation to the militants of the

movement who are now on the strcots to dosist from the idea of continue

conspiring. I say this for two rcasons: one, that on the long or short run

they are going to end in the same situation as ourselves, and the other that

our. fight no longer has reason of boing because basically what we are doing

is playing the fane of the North American Government and serving the objective:

for which they use us. In goneral this is the only thing I wished to say.

-13-

---

## Page 15

13-00000

7.

SE CRE-TO

18 Tullo 1962

MEMORANDUM DE

AMET indi AMFIAL-2 NO.AA 134

REF • :

Entrevista

a duan talon lamar,

detenido en Cuba,

SU -

vesto Coordinados Harional del'movimiento de Recupe.

racior: revolucionaria" en Cuba.-

INFORNA NIT:

Tomado de "RADIO REBELTE DE CUBA"

17 Julio 62 - 8:00 F.M.

Hace la presentacion del detenido, Luis GOMEZ Nanguemert

y del panel de periodista que esta integrado por: Carlos FRAN-

QuI, director del periodico REVCLUCION ! Raul VAIDES Vivo,

sub-director.del

• periodico HeY.

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

Esta lid. aqui ante los periodistas para contestar

sus preguntes por su propia voluntad, o ha sido

ud.

de alguna manera coartado para venir

esta noche?

Comple tamente voluntario.

Quisiera

entonces hacernos un relato de sus activi

dades en el M.RoR.

El M.F.Po fue fundado a fines de 1959 por Nanuel

ARTIME y una serie de elementos mas, yo en aquelle

epoca empece como miembro de fila, trabajando en la

parte de propaganda, escribia un pooo en el perio

dico del Movimiento, tambien repartia el periodico

y demas, y asi poco mas o menos, de aquella etapa

yo tengo poco que contar, porque yo era miembro de

fila y no tenia acceso a los planes del Movimiento,

despues de Giron, despues de la Invasion del 17 de

Abril de Playa Giron,

la mayor parte de la dirigen

cia del Movimiento se

asilaron o se

entonces los que eramos miembros de files y pasaros

a ocupar los cargos de la directiva para tratar de

re-organizarlo.

entonces en ese

cago fue que yo

entre en la dirigencia del llovimiento.

Entonces de

la dirigencia del

rovimiento es que yo puedo hablar

con mas

detalles, yo creo que ids. deben ya pregun-

tarme concretamente sobre al una cosa.

FRANQUI:

Despues de flaya Giron id. entro a forma: parte de

la direccion del MeRoR. y que cargo ocupo en

Es8

FALCON:

Primero fui Secretario de Organizacion y despues

pase posteriormente

a ocupar la direcion nacional del

Movimiento.

P '!

---

## Page 16

13-00000

•SECRETO

REF .:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FAICON:

VALDES:

FALCON:

GOLE Z:

FALCON:

18

Julio 1962

Entrevista a Juan TAI.CON Tamar, detenido

en Cuban

( Con to)

NO. 11/34

Que actividades principales contra-revolucionarias

relizaron Uds. despuos de Playa Giron?

Nos dedicamos a hacer una serie de actos de sabota

ja, como fueron la quema de la Petroouimica del Co-

torro, un plan para destruir el transporte nacional

en general, lleganos e destruir 3 guaguas de la Ru

ta 33, tambien teniamos un plan para la destruccion

sistematica de la economia el cual inclula entre

otras cosas el envenenamiento del ganado.

Que puede decirnos del atentado a-Carlos Rafael RO-

DEIGUEZ?

Nosotros

nos enteramos por los periodicos mue Car-

los Rafael iba a dar una conferencia en el Teatro

"Fausto" de liatanzas, pues supusimos que iba a sa-

lir por lalia Blanca y le montamos un chequeo y a

la salida de Carlos Rafael iba una maquina de no

sotros delante de el y le hizo seña a un individuo

que teniamos apostado en la carretera de que venia

atras la maquina de Carlos Rafael y entonces el in

dividuo trato de interceptar el carro y le tiraron

con el resultado conocido de que murio el indivi-

duo de nosotros all1.

Ud. ha dicho algo en relacion con las ectividades

contra-revolucionarias.

quien organi zaba

actividades? Habia alçuna vinculacion del M. F.R.

con la Arencia Central

•de Inteligencia?

En una etapa en un principio nosotros pensamos,

dejeme explicar un poco en detalles, nosotros pen-

sabamos que podiamos llevar solos esta lucha, pero

poco a poco nos fuimos dando cuenta que estabamos

cayendo en manos del Gobierno Norteamericano y que

nos ayudaban, no desinteresadamente sino con el

interes de volver a controlar la republica como es-

taban hasta el 1 Enero de 1959.

Y hasta donde llegaba la intromision de la d encia

Central de Inteligencia en el Movimiento que ild.

dirigia?

Bueno, ultimamente llegaba a un grado bastante gran-

de, por ejemplo, para nombrar un dirigente en este

jefe de una secretaria nacio-

nal del Movimiento, teniamos que consultarla inal-

ver si ellos aprobaban o desaprobaban

viduo.

Otro ejemplo que le pudiera dar para que se

- 2-

SECRDIC

---

## Page 17

13-00000

RET. :

SISTETO

1l Jul 62

Entrevista a Juan MAlieN Tamar, delenido

en Giba. ...e(Cont.)

NO.AA 134/

FALCON:

diera cuenta del. grado de sumision que hemos lle-

gado con relacion a ellos, fue en el problema de las

comunicaciones, nosotros siempre habianos tenido la

preocupacion de poder coruni carnoscon el Movimiento

alla afuera, es decir con elM. F.R. en el exilio, pa-

ra eso una vez pensamos en comprar una serie de

quipos de radio y de radiotelegrafia para comunicar

nos directamente con ellos alla, sin

embar go no pur

dimos hacerlo porque la gente de alla nos dijo que

si los Americanos Ilcgaban a enterarse que nosotros

nos estabamos comunicando con ellos directamente sán

contar para ello con Ja CIA, nos-ibamos a buscar un

problema muy grande y nos iban a retirar toda la ayn-

da, nosotros para comunicamos alla teniamos una

planta de telegrafia, de radiotelografia, ue se

comunicaba directamen te a una base de la

CIA, enton

ces por ahi nosotros pasabamos los mensajes que que

riamos mandarle al Movimiento y de ese mensaje los

Americanos les decian lo que ellos querian a los

miembros del lovimiento y se callaban lo que no que

rian decirle y si querian no podian pasarnos un me -

saje de alla para aca, es decir si querian comunicar-

nos algo de alla para

nosotros, entonces en vista de

eso fue que nosotros decidimos

tratar de comunicar

nos directamente sin que intermediara la CIA por e 1.

medio, sin embargo no nos fue posible, ellos no 10

de jaron, parece.

FRANQUI: Ud. dijo que se habian organizado porque iban a lu

char contra la revolucion del rueblo.

FALCON: SI

FRANQUI: Y entonces se refirio a la intromision de la CIA

del imperialismo; en que facha fue que ocurrio eso,

despues de Playa Giron, antes.

FALCON:

Bueno de eso no se puede precisar una fecha exacta,

mas bien

fue un proceso paulatino que cada vez fue

mas y mas y a lo ultimo estabanos practicanente.••

••• bueno despues nos convencieron que la ? volu

cion practicamente era invencible.

GOMEZ:

la que atribuye ld. le invencibilidad de la Revoli-

CION®

FAICON:

A un respalco popular mur grande.

3-

ABT0

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRETO

61 62

18

intrevista a Juan VArCO" lamar, detenido

en Cuba. ••o (Conto):

NC. 11 13%

VALDES:

Ud. habla de la vinculacion con la dencia Centrel

Inteligencia, que

recursos les facilitaba a Uds.

la CIA.

FAIC ON:

Bueno, en primer lugar nos daba dinero, el dinero

con el

que nosotros funcionabamos parte lo recauda-

bamos aqui y parte venia de sla en

un principio, ya

practicamente todo nos venia de alla.

FRANQUI:

Bajaron las recaudaciones que tenian aqui?

FALCON:

Si, por ejemplo otra vinculacion es

telegrafia, la que yo mencione anteriormente y que

no ni en te di.

teniamos para comunicarnos con ellos alla, Lacili

dades'

para

sacar gente del fais, es decir

gente

clandestina, gento que se quemara a base de barcos

que venian

a recogerlos. a

ellos

muchas pro.esas

de armas,

de materiales de sabotajes y otra serie

de cosas.

GONE Z:

Ud. hablo de barcos, que clase de barcos?

FALCON: Bueno, unas lanchas que vienen.

GOMEZ: Venian aqui a las Costas de Cuba.

FALCON: SI

GOMEZ:

Procedentes de donde?

FALCON: De Miami.

GOMEZ: Tripuladas por quienes?

SAIGON:

Bueno, en algunos casos por miembros del "oviminto

y en

otrospor norteamericanos.

FRANQI:

Ud. hablo de comunicaciones, que tipo de aparato

suministro a Ud. la cin?

FALCON:

Un aparato de telegrafia de los que usanellos para

SuS

labores de espionaje en otros loises, es un

aparato de telegrafia no comercial, un aparato pe-

queño que puede funcionar en cualquier lado practi-

camente

a base de sistema de telegrafia en clave directa-

do tet rata no comercial a cabemos e

mente

una base de la CIA.

VALDES:

Y del atentado organizado contra el Cate. Paul CAS

TRo, con participacion de la sase

Maval de Guantanamo.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

SECREIO

13 M. 62

RET. :

Entre vista a Juan "AICO! Tamar, detenido

on cuba. ••icont.

N0.11 134

FALCON :

Bueno eso fue el 26 de Jullo del

año pasado, ese no

fue un plan especi"icamente nuesiro, ese fue un plan

inventado por la CIA con la participacion de virias

organizaciones, no era la nuestra la unica, el plan

contemplaba varias partes, es decir contemplaba un

ministros que se

Iba a rounir en le Plaza Civica el dir 26 de Julio

del aio pasado, por otra prte tenia un atentado a

Raul CASTRO en

Santiago de Cua y otra serie de ac

tos de sabotaje mas correlativos con eso, como era

tratar de inutilizar la Cia. de Electricidad, una

auto-agresion a la Base de Guantanano y varias co

sas mas de menos envergadura.

FRANQUI:

"Los planes de

quemar el petronuinico del Cotorio

no participaron.

FALCON: Si, esa

fue nuestra organizacion la que l0 hizo.

GOMEZ: Podria udo explicarme un poco el sabotaje a la Pe-

troquinica del Cotorro.

FALCON:

Pueno, ahi se utilizaron materiales fabricalos por

nosotros, practicmete ahi no se usaron materiales

que hubieran venido de afuera, es decir de EL iT,

quimicamente se preparo unas

capsulas que quemeron

enseguida.

GOME Z:

Que otros planes de sabotajes tenien.

FALCON:

El destruir unas plantas aqui de la coA, tenemos

mia, que contemplaba entre otras cosas como ya le

ate en te oro ente

ladestruccion sistematica de la econo-

dije anteriormente el envenenamiento del ganado con

cianuro de potaso.

VIVO:

Y la quema de guaguas como la realizaban?

PALCON: A base de patacas incendiarias.

VIVO:

Simulando cajetillas de ci garros?

FALCON:

FRANQU I:

Si, poco mas o menos.

Ud. ha mencionado una serie de actos cotro-revolu

cionarios realizados por ustedes, "d. ha menciona

do que tuvieron un cierto exito en el del Cotorro,

Mas. fracasaron en el atentado a

"arlos Rarael " no

pudieron realizar los atentados a las principales

figuras de la Revolucion.

Cuelos lucron las causas

que impidieron que Mas. lo realizaran?

556?

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SECRETO

18 .u!

62

ROF.:

Entrevista a Juan fALSeN lamar, detenido

en Cuba.... (Conte

10. 11/34

FAI. CON :

No tuvimos tiempo, el Departamento de seguridad

del Estado nos prendio a todos practicamente.

FRA NI I:

rero e sos

atentados ocurrieron en tienpos dife-

rentes.

FALCON:

No eso los estabamos planeando ahora.

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

Pero por ejemplo ess atentado de participacion or

ganizado porla CIA y

en

que

perticiparon varias or-

ganizaciones contra-revolucionarias como fue el del

26 de Tullo, Que fue lo que Impidio la realizacion?

La misma razon de ue el epartamento de siguridad

del Estado varios dias atos me se hiciera prendio

todos los individuos claves en

GOMEZ:

Es decir, que

en varioscasos en varios planes de

sabotaje

que lIas. tenian el Departamento de guri

dad del Estado se les anticipo y erresto a los que

esteban complicados para realizarlos.

FALCON:

FRANQU1:

En muchos de ellos.

Uds. confrontaban muchas dificultades en cuanto a la

realizacion de estos planes, como se sentian, no les

era dificil realizar estos actos?

FALCON:

Bueno, hay que estudiar un plan y tratar de llevar-

lo a cabo, es decir montar un cheaueo al individuo

y ver el lugar mas apropiado para llevarlo a cabo y

ver

si es posible o no.

FRANQUI: Sí eso es natural en cualquier tipo de acto de esa

naturaleza, pero yo me referia en vista de que el

porcentaje

de actos que han realizado es muy penue no

sin

embargo intentaron hacer muchos cuenta id. aus

una de las

causas

es que el Depertamento de SEuri-

dad

de!. Estado intervino a tiempo, pero, hay

alguna

otra causa que

le impedia a lids. las actividades

contra-revolucionarias?

FALCON:

Bueno en

general unas series de dificultades como

por ejemplo el desaliento entre las filas del movi

miento.

FRANQUI: Originado, porque?

FALCON:

Criginado por la sumision

esa a la Arencia central

de Inteligencia Aorteamericana, norotros Indiscubi

blemente ibamos

ala lucha no con la idea de estar

sumidos a una potencia extranjera en mir el dio de

---

## Page 21

13-00000

REF . :

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOME Z:

FALCON:

SECRETO

18 0

e 62

Entrevista a quen PALCO" Tamar, delmido

cn Cuba....• (Conto)_

NO. 11/3

manen a

tuvieramos que de nuovo entregarles la Pa-

tris a ellos,

entonces esa auda que ellos nos pro

metian y nos daban peulatinamente, nos la fueron

condicionando, es decir, nosotros

ingenuamente se

puede decir pensamos que nos la iban a brindar de

sinteresadamente,es decir, sin pedirnos nada en cam

bio pero despues

nos dimos cuenta queno era asi, de

que ellos esa ayuda nos la brindaban a cambio de al

go, a cambio de que nosotros el dia de mañana les

entregaramos la Soberania y la Patría a ellos, en

tonces por e se motivo es que cundio una especie de

desaliento entre las filas delMovimiento, hasta que

llego cono a fines del año pasado en que

pensaros

en disolver el Moviniento completamente.

Pero el fracaso de Playa Giron, no cue tambien un

factor determinante.

S1, Playa Giron fue una de las causas deterninantes,

decir, que en Playa viron se vio

tambien el desti

no del Imperialismo Norteamericano.

Aunque tambien

se vio la popular que es luchar con-

tra la Revolucion.

Si, exactamen te, fue una Invasion que fue destruida

en

menos de 12

horas.

Y cuando llegaron Uds. a la conclusion de que le es

taban sirviendo de instrumento a

los Estados tinidos

y al Imperialismo Norteamericano?

Bueno, hace bastante tiempo ya, el problema de esto

uno se da cuenta de eso

pero ya Le parece

de un poco de ain aplo en eso ba cane te esa e-

una de las razones por las que yo he pedido venir

aqui, 19

mayor parte de los conspiradores que hay

en la callo, lor miembros de fila de nues

tro Moviniento, que aun cuedan en la calle tienen

una idea distinta de la lucha, es decir, que piensan

que no somos como en realidad somos, una Sucursal

de la Agencia Central de Inteligencia "orte mericana,

entonces ellos piensan e so y continuar en la lucha,

sin embargo nosotros los que estamos en la dirigen-

cia, yo lo digo por el caso mio concreto, cuando yo

miembro de fila del Hovimi ento, que ne dedicaba

a repartir propaganda, que me pasabatodo el dia re-

partiendo propaganda desde por la mañena hasta por

la noche y cuendo terminaba me creia que habia hecho

por Cuba un horror, creia que habia trabajado enor

memente por cuba y quebahia hecho lo meio que podia

hacer y que

estaba trabajendo por me ecuen fusta:

---

## Page 22

13-00000

18

Tul 62

R9F:

entrevista a cun FALCON Tomar, deleni do

en cuba....• (Tonto)

MOAN134

FALCON:

cuando

die que a dirigente del lovimiento me di

cuenta

de

ause so no

era asi y ahora lo comprendo

đẹ que

estabamos entregados

completamen te

al Im

perialismo Norteamericano " que no ibaros a poder

lograr ninguna de lasideas, ninguno de los fines

para los cuales luchabamos.

VIVO:

Desde luego, de mas esta decir que los compañeros

que estaios aqui, creemos tento

en la ingenuidad

de los miembros de esa Organizacion contra-revolil

cono en el desinteres de La Agencia cen

tran ra inteligencia, nosotros nueremos puntuall-

zar para no entrar en una polemida innecesaria, id.

ha hablado de asesinatos, de los sabotajes contra

la economia popular, que participacion han tenido

Uds. en la ayuda a las bandas de

al zados

que hicie -

ron del Escambray un cuonillo....del pais?

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

Fueno, la misma participacion practicmente que han

tenido las demas organizaciones, es decir, sí se

podia brindar una ayuda basicamente de tipo moneta-

rio porque de otra

cosa no tenianos, pues se la

brindabanos, si teniamos la posibilidad.

Pero MId.

menciono ahi que las

recaudaciones que

uas tanian proveniente de los erupos contra-revo-

lucionarios Internos disminuia mucho, porque

tuvi cr

ron que recurrir cada vez mas a la ajuda que lids.

recibian de los Estados Unicos, En que forma leci

bien Uds. osa ayuda?

FALCON:

La suda se recitia a hace de cambios, es deole ope-

raciones de cambio,

ellos situsban

dolares ella,

a un individuo alle particular y nosotros aqui e

otro

individuo le recogianos el emuivalente.

PRINOI: Ellos!

quienes?

FAICON: Los norteamericanos.

VIVO: El cambio de la moneda, como afecto esas operaciones?

FALCON:

Bueno, en aquel momento a nosotros no nos afecto en

gran cosa, nosotros cambiarios practicamente todo el

dinero que

tenia el Moviri ento, pusimos a todos los

militantes del Movi iento a cambiar dinero.

FRANQUI: En la llabana, la recaudacion de Tos. tuvo que ver

alg0 con

el hecho de que los elementos de la clase

burguesa y rice, tomaron el caino de los FE.T".?

?=!?

---

## Page 23

13-00000

0

18 ,Tul. 62

REF.:

Entreviste a Juan

PALCOn Lamar, detenido

en cuba... (Cont.)

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

FRANGU•I:

FAI, CON :

VIVO:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

Yo creo que en gran parte.

Es decir, Uds. recibian dinero

de gente sica.

SI.

Y al 1rse esa gente, pues tenian menos recaudacio-

Practicamente, Si.

No quiere decir algo sobre la guerra psicologica,

sobre el problema de las bolas.

Si, yo voy a decir algo sobre la propaganda del

asunto aquel de la Patria Potestad, en general ese

es un auto en el cual nosotros tomabamos gran par-

te, porque sinseramente aquella vez de la Patria

Potestad, tiranos unapropaganda tratando de deses-

perarlos, con esa bola que se halia tirado.

"'d. conoce este instrumen to?

Si, este es un cuño para las carteras dactilares

falsas.

Es decir, para la falsiricacion de este tipo de

cartera

dactiler, y este tipo de carteras dactila-

res que ilds. usaban donde se hizo aqui o en los

EE. TU.?

En lOs CE.IU.

Se lo mandaba a Uds. la Agencia Central de Inteligen

cia.

Si•

FRANQUI: Ud. ba referido una serie de actividades que

tiene

me ver con

explosivos, ayuda,

blo tamhien de los planes que

comunicacioresiscu

tenian que ser

tidos por la CIA, entrenamiento de dirigentes,

tam-

bien Ud. hablo de envenenamiento de animales.

podir explicarnos?

---

## Page 24

13-00000

SECRETO

18 Jul 62

REF• :

FALCON:

FALCON:

GOMEZ :

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido

en Cuba...•(Conto)

NO-AA 1 34/

Udo sabe que hay escacez de carne que ese es un problema

que confronta la revolucion hoy en dia entonces trataba

mos de cooperar a eso; es decir como les decia anterior-

mente es una especie de plan de destruir sistematicamente

la economia.

Yo queria venir aqui precisamente porque a Reinold nadie

le hizo caso entonces todo el mundo penso que Reinold hasta

cierto punto no habla sido sincero es decir que habia venido

aqui coaccionado por el Departamento de Seguridad del Estado

a tener aquella comparecencia.

Me permite una pregunta Ud. tiene una opinion distinta ahora?

Completamente distinta.

Por que?

Por el trato que he recibido en el Departamento de Seguridad

del Estado y por los metodos que he visto que emplean

Reinold hablo de que a el hacia 6 meses que lo estaban che

queando, eso nadie lo creyo y nadie le creyo que un coordi

nador nacional del movimiento lo tuvieran 6 meses en la calle

chequeandolo, yo puedo afirmar que a mí me han tenido 9 meses,

a mí me han probado en el Departamento de Seguridad del Estado

la vida mia 9 meses atras me han dicho casas como por ejemplo

la marca de cigarros que yo fumaba hasta al cine que habituaba

1ro

Yo quiero decirle una cosa porque a lo mejor ahora algun otro

contra revolucionario que como Ud. dice o supone engañado vaya

a estar pensaddo de Ud. lo mismo que Ud. penso de Reinold, en

tonces la prueba vanos a dejarla para la proxima ocasion cuando

venga aqui tambien porque poco a poco todo el mundo ha visto

como todas las organizaciones contra revolucionarias van siendo

Liquidados por la revolucion, es decir que en definitiva lo que

importa no es la apreciacion si Ud. dice o no dijo, lo que im

porta son las presentaciones.

Es decir yo estimo Sr. Franqui que al ver estos dos casos la

gente nos haga mas caso.

No pero no son dos casos, son muchos casos, trataron de levan-

tarse en el Escambray y fueron liquidados, vinieron a Playa Gi-

ron y fueron liquidados, intentaron hacer gabotajes en el Encan

to etc. y fueron liquidados, vino Reinold y fue liquidado, han

Intentado infiltrarse por diferentes lugares del pais y han si-

SEMIRETA

---

## Page 25

13-00000

SECRETO

18 Jul 62

REF°® :

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ :

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

GOMEZ :

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

PRANQUI:

Entrevista & Juan FALCON lamar, detenido

en Cubao...(Cont.)

NO.11 1 3%

do líquidados, asi es que no son dos casos, son michos

Pero mire el problema que tiene hoy en dia el individuo

que esta en la calle conspirando es que cree que ya no

puede volver para atras es decir que no le queda mas que

dos salidas abandonar el pais o tratar de seguir luchando

hasta ver si triunfa.

Ud, cree que tienen otra salida ademas de esas dos.

Yo estoy seguro que si, el Departamento de Seguridad del

Estado no esta interesado en hacer una represion en masa

ni mucho amenos, lo que le interesa es que el individuo

deje de conspirar, si no se meten con ellos, ellos no se

meten con el tampoco.

A parte de eso yo creo que tambien tienen una entrada que

es en el Departamento de Seguridad del Estado.

Bueno, si siguen conspirando

Udo presencio la comparecencia de Reinold Gonzalez, el hablo

de la eficacia de los Comites de Defensa, Ud. tambien puede

decirlo?

Completamente, ellos me probaron las actividades mias de ha-

ce 9 meses.

Vio Ud. a Reinold Gonzalez por television, despues de esa com

parecencia ha visto Ud a Reinold, ahora que esta detenido.

Si, he tenido oportunidades de hablar con el.

Se ha convencido Ud. de que el vino aqui expontaneamente y que

declaro verdaderamente lo que el quio declarar.

Bueno no es que yo este convencido es que yo tambien he venido

expontaneamente a declarar.

Bien, Ud, habla tambien de que gran parte de esa dificultad

ha sido creada por los Comites de Defensa.

Si

Ud. quisiera ponerme algun ejemplo practico

-11-

SECRETO

---

## Page 26

13-00000

SECRETO

18 Ju162

Her.:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido

en Cuba.... (Cont.)

Bueno ejemplo practico realmente no se yo lo que puedo

decirle es que a mi me probaron actividades mias ahi de

hace 9 meses, me han dicho cuando yo llegue ahi desde la

marca de cigarros que yo fumaba hasta al cine que habil

tualmente iba, es decir no conmigo solo sino con. todos

los miembros de la direccion del movimiento.

Ud. hablo de la direccion y hablo de miembros, En que es

tado ha quedado ahora en esta ultima redada su organiza

cion?

Completamente destruida

Udo nos dijo antes que habia una cierta desconfianza de la

Agencia Central de Inteligencia y los miembros del grupo

que la. dirigia en Cuba, que puede decirnos?

Practicamente casi toda la direccion y recibimos instruc-

ciones de salir del territorio a fin de hacer uas investi-

gacione

Y no recibieron Uds. instrucciones de utilizar metodos coac

tivos para llevar a los Estados Unidos a algunos que no qui-

sieran ir

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

Por ejemplo, contra quienes

Contra el Coordinador de Finanzas, si el individuo no que

ria ir por su voluntad, ed decir no se le decia a lo que

iba, se le decia que iba a tomar un entrenamiento, pero si

no queria por su voluntad habia que sacarlo secuestrado.

Y si se negaba a fr

Las instrucciones que tenian ellos era de que lo mataran.

De que lo mataran aunque fuera un compañero?

S1

Ud. ha hablado aqui de la desmoralizacion que existe en su

organizacion y en general en la contra revolucion, Que opi

nion tiene Ud. de las posibilidades de la contra-revolucion

en la lucha contra el pueblo de Cuba?

lo creo que son practicamente nula en este momento, yo creo

que nadie pueda hacer nada que pueda derrocar el gobierno

Revolucionaro de Cuba en este noemtno; practicamente nues

---

## Page 27

13-00000

SECRETO

18 Jul 62

REF• :

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ :

FALCON:

GOMEZ.:

FALCON:

GOMEL :

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido

en Cuba....(Conto)

10. ла / 3%

tra lucha pues no tiene razon de ser y en cierto aspecto

es hasta inmoral pues lo que estamos es causando una

serie de perdidas materiales y perdidas de vida tambien

a la cual no tenemos derecho

Es una lastima que Uds. no se convenzan de eso hasta que

no estan preso

Bueno yo no me habia convencido antes, el problema es como

yo le decia antes era que yo creia que no habia otra salida

y ese es el caso de muchos de los que estan conspirando hoy

en dia.

Ud. estuvo personalmente en contacto con los agentes de la

CIA, verdad?

S1

Es decir tuvo Ud. oportunidad de conversar con ellos y de

estudiar cuales eran sus puntos de vistas Cuales cree Ud.

que eran sus objetivos en Cuba, con que fines los utilizaba

a Uds?

El objetivo basico de los Norteamericanos en este momento no

es resolver el problema de Cuba, sino el producir aqui un es

tado de agitacion y de alarma, es decir utilizarnos a noso

tros con esos fines para ellos poder llevar a cabo una propa

ganda por toda la America Latina y hablar de los horrores del

gobierno comunista de Cuba, es decir ese es el objetivo que

ellos persiguen

Lo utilizaban a todos como carne de cañon

Por que el movimiento contra-revolucionario a que Ud. perte

nece se llama de Recuperacion

Bueno la palabra indica de recuperar la revolucion

Bueno pero nosotros le recuperamos al imperialismo todo lo

que el imperialismo le quitaba a nuestra patria, entonces Uds.

e iban a recuperar a la revolucion lo que nosotros Le quita

os al imperialisi

No, es otra idea completamente distinta. Bueno es una con

cepcion distinta.

Cree Ud. que la palabra recuperacion no fue una palabra bien

escogida.

Bueno eso depende del punto que se vea, paulatinamente llegamo:

al convencimiento de que no estabamos recuperando, que lo esta-

---

## Page 28

13-00000

SECRETO

18 Jul 62

REF'•:

Intrevista de Juan FALCON Tanar, detenido

en Cube...o(Cont.)

FALCON:

GOMEZ :

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

HOMEZ :

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

bamos recuperando por los norteamericanos

Que puede decirnos Ud. del trato que ha recibido mientras ha

estado Ud. arrestado en el Ipto, de Seguridad del Estado

encelente, practicamente puedo decir que nunca me he sentido

como un prisionero

Cree Ud. que ese es un trato personal para Udo, especial para

No, ha sido con todos los miembros de nuestro movimiento, es

decir un trato general, yo creo que es una cuestion de princi

pios del Dpto. de Seguridad del Estado

Segun Ud. explico llego a la direccion de esa organizacion que

pretendia recuperar el pasado imposible para nuestro pais des

pues de Playa Giron y como pensaban Uds. que iban a triunfar,

repitiendo Playa Giron o mediante la intervencion directa de

los Marines norteamericanos.

Pensabamos que podiamos internamente sin ayuda de ellos, eso

fue una cosa absurda practicamente.

Como Uds. van a pensar eso, si con la ayuda de ellos y la de

Uds. junto no pudieron.

No nos avisaron

Uds. eran un movimiento aislado o tenian Uds. contacto con

otros grupos contrarrevolucionarios en Cuba o fuera de Cuba

Practicamente era un movimiento aislado

Pero Uds. se reunian con otros grupos para realizar determina-

los actos con otros gruños.

Bueno ya le dije que el acto del 26 se hizo en union de otras

organizaciones

A Playa Giron vino uno de los jefes principales de Uds.

S1, el Sec. Gral. del Mov. el Sr. Manuel Artime.

Y el Sr. Manuel Artime tampoco les aviso.

No porque las comunicaciones estaban en manos de los americanos..

SECRETO

---

## Page 29

13-00000

SECRETO

18 Jul 62

REF• :

Entrevista de Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido

en Cube.

• (Cont.)

N0.MA / 34

VIVO:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

VIVO:

Si esta claro, no le avisaron a ellos. Ud. tiene en esa

organizacion el mismo cargo que Artime

1o,. Artime era Secretario General

Quien dirige la parto civil alla?

El delegado nuestro en elatranjero el Sr. Jose Ignacio

Lazaga.

La Agencia Central de Inteligencia segun Ud. ha explicado .

aqui es la organizadora, financiadora y la que da ordenes

directas y concretas y da pistolas, silenciador, radios:

dollares etc. a las organizaciones, Ud. sabe que la Agen

cia Central de Inteligencia fue la organizadora de la inva

sion a Playa Giron?

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

COME. :

• sabian Uds' que estaba organizando de nuevo desde veinte

y pico campamentos establecidos en los Estados Unidos, Nica-

ragua, Guatemala, Venezuela y otros paises una nueva invasion

a Cuba?

De eso no teniamos conocimientos.

No tenian Uds. conocimientos de ninguna otra invasion no es.

peraban Uds. de nuevo una invasion a Cuba.

No, en terminos concretos no, en lineas generales si, nosotros

estabamos convencidos de que internamente no podiamos derrocar

al gobierno y tiene que ser externamente a base de una inva

s10n.

Ud. cree que la CIA se iba a conformar con mandarle dos o tres

agentes a Uds. para organizar las conversaciones por radio esas

Para los fines de ellos de crear aqui un estado de agitacion

s1.

Ya Udo describio que la CIA se proponia invadir de nuevo a Cuba,

en caso de una invadion que Ud. cree que ocurriria

Bueno, si la otra fue destruida en 72 horas yo creo que esta

corre la misma suerte®

Tiene Ud. Juan FALCON Tomar alguna cosa que agregar a las res

puestas que ha dado a los periodistas miembros del panel, tie-

ne alguna otra declaracion que hacer.

---

## Page 30

13-00000

SE C RETO

18 Jul 62

REF'•:

Entrevista de Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido

en Cuba.... (Cont.)

NO.AA / 34/

FALCON:

S1 lo que queria hacer incapies en hacerle una exhortacion

a los militantes del movimiento que hoy esten en la calle

para que desistan de la idea de seguir conspirando y yo lo

digo por dos razones, una es que a la larga o a la corta

van a terminar en la misma situacion que nosotros y la otra

es que nuestralucha ya no tiene razon de ser porque basica

mente lo que estamos es haciendole el juego al gobierno nor

teamericano y sirviendo para los fines para los cuales ellos

nos usan, eso es en general lo unico que queria decir®

-16

CREERETO

---

