# 104-10166-10245

## Page 1

104-10166-10245

16-8

Chlot of Seatles.

Calet ol Station,

C108, 50810%

AQUATIC

16-7

mmmitto as a attachent uro 33 photographle printa a

no negatives obtalmod frai the roll of Plus I 11la fervirded l

An instructed l deser

«co, sno nostson, copter of sci print vore nedo and alacrl

buted to the headquarter Divialons. there dupliento scentavai

spared on the roll only lle bettor mentivo us priatedo.

450 26/3/65 ecs

NATE ENTRIES OF 153A

ONCE TOTE P. PAINENE

Amtrlburt?

8 - 008

16-8

mati

w/att

RETURNTO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

22

5 APRi965

D3 Hareh 1945

TAD/POR

1

- THD/leX

POS 21101

NAM (28 Mar)

38 Ma

He e

1318

03

01/0FS/T1

by phone m8110

*3613

I11T]

05

C/TAD/0A

---

## Page 2

Velruary 89, ADAS

Por finance

Pear. Dr. Meyer!

ute fouled up alace I kno

le da really enfortinaco chas comm

have greatly banalieed

• the troup

wich me could

fre

pood offices.

Vee 1e

the-grent viole wiet yous

saclon and erana

l cercalaly de

or projast and the ocha eme

Alecusond with m.

Domver, Bale Lake and Milen

My present agenta regulava cripo to Amartido.

I choula ho ablo se fly to faler.

e conmado che middlo ol Marel

frustin that the delay uld

not ba irritarina. E vill cato cha liberty ol virias pou voos !

Amow the prestes

• arrival doce.

cometally.

Al:J

BCC, George de Mohrenochildt

strike de

parent de etni

or carenge.

ir:+=

---

## Page 3

Pabruary 88. 1909

orable Harve lorer

Port as Prince

mased: н. в.

Does De. Dogers

wagner 24001000689t

It jo really fortunate chae coummleatson

sTo loudly adole to Do a to all on could

pod olllege.

I mercataly

orses project and sha

docusool with no.

wor, dale

My

should

he

nt agamil

mes sonardo che madle of Marti

• Ma166.

cate the libersy of airlas you woon i

date.

880: JR

1CC: Goerge de Mohrenne

fann

---

