# 104-10117-10075

## Page 1

104-10117-10075

SUPPLEMENTAL PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

SECTION 1.

Submit in duplicate.

12-DATE OF BIRTH 3. PLACE OF BIRTH (City.State.Country)e.

SOC SEC NO.

8. FULL NAME (last-first-middle)

Flores, Daniel

5.

PRESENT STATUS

(Sindle, widowed, divorced,

or

annulled) SPECIFY: Married,°

6- STATE DATE. PLACE. AND REASON FOR ALL DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

"NA"

Texas

30

SECTION 11.

1. NAME OF SPOUSE

Flores,

A- DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE

18 November

1960

(last-first-middle-maiden)

706 09

SPOUSE

DATE OF

BIRTH

1935

3. PLACE OF BIRTH (spouse)

Portland, Oregon

& place

6. STATE DATE, PLACE.

REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS.

DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

"NA"

8.

PRESENT EMPLOYER

7. OCCUPATION

Legal Secretary

9. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State & Zip Code - Country if not U.S.)

08

_Street NW, Washington, D.C.

SECTION 111

RESIDENCE (Since date of last PHS, if overseas residence indicate only city and country)

ADDRESS - LAST RESIDENCE FIRST (number, street, city, state, country) Inel Aph #

INCLUSIVE

DATES (month & vear)

FROM.

TO.

710

Ma y

• 1969

May 1971

DIo

Sept. 1977

Feb. 1974

об

Feb. 197%

I Vienna, Va

SECTION IV.

060

06 E

CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS (Provide information for all children and dependents)

RELATIONSHIP

DATE & PLACE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

Flores

Daughter

3 March 1971

USA

Washington, D.C.

Vienna, Va.

Flores

Daughter

15 March 1974

USA

Washington, D.c.

(4)

FORM

12-70 444e

OBSOLETE

EDITIONS

pREVIOUS

---

## Page 2

SECTION

V.

MARRIAGE

RELAT ARE NOT LOOS, MITREENS OR

OR ADOPTION WHO EITHER 1) LIVE ABROAD.

(3) WORK FOR A FOREIG

GOVERNMENT

(1)

t-Middle)

Richardo

5.

CITIZENSHIP (Country)

USA

". EMPLOyE Army

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

* RELATIONSHII

rennet

ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

Ansbach,

Germany

" Per rodic

CONTACT

#&--RELATIONSMIP

"MaTCh 1574ONTACT

3'. DATE OF BIRTH A. PLACE OF BIRTY (City, State, Country)

5.

CITIZENSHIP (Country)

6.

ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

(2)

7.

EMPLOYED

BY

B. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

9. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. DATE OF BIRTH

A-PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Cantry)

5.

CITIZENSHIP (Country)

ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE

RESIDES

(3)

". EMPLOYED BY

B. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

9. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

SECTION VI.

PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

1. HAVE YOU

BEEN ARRESTED.

OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF LAW (Other than for

minor traffic riolation) SINCE, THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS

YES (explain

below)

Z.

SINCE

THE DATE

OF YOUR LAST PHS.

HAVE THERE BEEN ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE

YES (explain

WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION.

below)

3. NAME OF YOUR PRESENT IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR (include Room Number and Extension) MT.

Nestor Sanchez,

X-7451

RM 3030

SECTION VII.

PERSONS TO BE MOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

1. NAME (Last-First-Middäme as previous PHS.

2. RELATIONSHIP

• NO

NO

3. HOME ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, ZIP Code)

A. HOME TELEPHONE NUMBER

BUSINESS ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, ZIP COde) - INDICATE NAME OF FIRM

IF APPLICAbLE

BUSINESS TELEPHONE NUMBER & EXT.

IN CASE OF EMERGENCY. OTHER CLOSE RELATIVES (spouse,

...) MAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED.

SUCH NOTIFICATION

IS NOT DESIRABLE BECAUSE OF HEALTH OR OTHER REASONS, PLEASE IDENTIFY THE PERSONS NOT TO BE NOTIFIED AND THE REASON.

SECTION VIll. '

ADDITIONAL REMARKS:

=:..

DATE

SIGNATURE OF

EMPLOYEE

---

## Page 3

NAME (First-middlo-lest)

Dandel (mn) Flores

3. "AF- MARRIED

SUPPLEMENTAL PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

2.

MARITAL STATUS

BANGLE

MARRIED

OTHEA

•PLACE OF MARRIAGE.

: 110

RESIDENCE (Since

SINCE (Date)

PRESENT

Angust 1961

DATE TO DATE

DATE

MARRIAGE

November 1960

of

Tant

PHS.

if

overseas residence indicate only city &

NUMBER

AND STREET

country)

CITY AND STATE

Walkington, D.C,

20006

NUMBER AND STREET

CITY .AND STATE

FROM

8/2703

DATE TO DATE

NUMBER AND STREET

CITY AND STATE

FROM

5. *HAVE YOU

BEEN ARRESTED:

•INDICTED. *OR :CONVICTED:FOR ANY: VIOLATION OF LAW (Other than for

•minor tralfic violation) SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS

6. SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST. PHS. HAVE THERE BEEN ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE

WHICH MIGHT REOUIRE EXPLANATION

NO

NO

Ru. 305l

D. ADDITIONAL REMARKS (Use reverse if necessary)

DATE

29 March 1967

FORM ЦиЦе

- 6%

GNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

amit: Ther

---

## Page 4

1. NAME (First-middle-last)

Daniel (nin) Flores

3.. IF MARRIED

SUPPLEMENTAL PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT:

MARITAL STATUS

#INGLE:

MARRIED

Flores

PLACE OF MARRIAGE

10

A. RESIDENCE (Since date of last PHS,

SINCE (Date)

PRESENT

August 1961

DATE TO DATE

DATE OF MARRIAGE

18 November 1960

if overeas revidence indicate only.city dcountry)

NUMBER AND STREET.

CITY AND STATE:

Wabhit ngton, DiC.

at ads:

NUMBER

AND STREET

CITY AND: STATE"

20008

FROM :

DATE TO DATE

NUMBER AND STREET

CITY AND/STA

", wer

FROM

YOU BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED. OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF LAW (Other than for:

minor traffic violation) SINCE THE DATE OF YOUR LAST PHS

ES (Explai

below

NO

SINCE THE DATE DECE LAST POS HAVE THERE BEEN ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IM YOUR 4W5

WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION

J. NAME OF

Barty T. Mahoney

PRESENT IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR

8. ADDITIONAL REMARKS (USE rEVerBO

if

necessary)

Des ExplainS wo

below.

EXT -7176 RM #3054

ETURN PHS AND ATTACHMENTS

TO HEADQUARTERS

DATE

29 March 1967

4064 444e

3/20

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

---

