# 104-10320-10057

## Page 1

104-10320-10057

FROM.

CHILY

SNILL LANDAT

FOI/

REDUES

tippeal - Claude to layer

25-1120

EXTENSION

120%

PAS AM 2 SPENT

SUSPENSE DATE

TO: LOßur designalion, cosm number, ond

DATE

OFMCE2'3

INITIALS

FORWARDEO

e/LI/IS

COMMENTS (Number

to whom.

Dro

• Tine

colum

Surpase

7

duopped his appeal

2.

3.

C/CI/IS/FOIA

5.

$.

7.

8.

9.

CI/EXO

This is a curious business:

Does D'Unger's first paragraph

of his 27 August 1975 letter

mean that someone in the

Agency supplied the material

he requested, or that he

obtained what he needed from

National Archives?

C/CI

C/CI/IS

P1757*

I MADEr CL BY D 613175

BRIORITCHANDLING

AFOIA REQUEST

474)

1 SECRET

XI COMFICENTIAL CO WERE!

---

## Page 2

13-00000

August 27, 1075

ir. Robert Young

Execdon of Information Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

RE:

Pending Appeal of Frcedon of

Information equest

July 8, 1975

Dear Mr. Young:

This is to inform you that the information originally icquested

from the Central Intelligence Agency on June: 12,, J.975, and subseguent:

ly re-requested on July 8, 1975, has been scuured from a source other

than the agency's normal channels:

Therefore, it vould be appreciated if you would drop the above

referenced appeal from active consideration by the Information Review

Conmittee.

Sinceroly,

CVD :bv

Suite 805 Guaronty Bank Plaza /: 512 833-1545 / Corpus Christi, Texas 72101

62-2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MTERNAL

US: ONLY

SECRET

C14 (9.2|04)

POIA Apocal -- Claude V. D'Ungor

HOM:

H. G.

Executive Secretary, IRC

7C-18, Hgs.

TO: fOnto designation, room numbar, ond

Holdingl

DATE

VOCAINEO

FORMARDEO

Mir. Nelson,

TUKU:

vc. Briggs,

2...

300005, Ness

Me. Jullan

7C-24, Figs.

C/SS/DDO

.(EW-7)

1/22

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

% cl statt

21/504280 0y

Pecólite

240 потон

2-5/6/25T

9.

10,

ESTCIISION

5226

INCERT

MIAL

eds

12.

FO.

PRIORITY HANDUING

:** 3749

O secun

L7 COMFIDENTIAL

IRS 75-1973

22 July 1975

SUSWENSE DAT

15 August 1975

COMNENIS Numbue aoche cominant to show trom

11429

Dia» a lina eurcis columa ulter voch concht

Aitached is an POIA Appcal witi

a due date ue 15 August.

In accordance with the IRC pro-

cocures, the Chairman has assignec

action for this appeal as follous:

Mr. William E. Nelson

Designated Action Member (s)

should contact ie within 48 hous

should thece be any objection to

the case assignment.

The CGC attorney assigned. to

advise you or your Appeals Officer

regarding this case is:

Mr. Emile Julian

Please advise the undersigned c

the nome of ony Appeals Officer(s)

appointed to work on this case.

The Action Member or Appeals

Officer is requested to insure

that state work is completed and

the case is ready for presentatio

(should such be required) at the

Laugust IRC meeting:

Att:

CC:

a/s

Ba, other Marber, IRC w/Att.

OGC (Lansdale) w/Att.

C/IRS w/o Att.

DDA Subject v/Att.

POIA REQUEST

AVAL

115E

01LY

UNCLASSIFIE!

---

## Page 4

13-00000

до 15 4 50 PH "75

15

IMAGIN SONS

DO WE.

CAMP-S

691-

• Blanger Gampany

Tune 12, 1975

reedom of Information

Central Intelligence Agency

vashington, D. C.

20505

Sentleten:

The following request is being made pursuant to the Freedon of Information Law

and its amendments (5 USC par 552/P.L. No. 93-502, 88 Stat. 1561) .

Would you please send me a list of all documents, exhibits and records compiled

y the Central Intelligence Agency pertaining to the Assassination of President John

Fitzgerald Kennedy in 1963 or to the Warren Cormission. If in the event any of the

above mentioned should be more than one page, please include the number of pages, as

se11 as a title and reference. Also, please describe the status of classification,

L.e., confidential, secret, top secret, etc.

Your timely reply will be appreciated.

Sincerely,

Saude v. Dingung-

VD:bv

Suite 1020 Guaranty Bank Plaza

512 €83.1545, / Corpus Christi, Texas 78401 6 2-4

---

