# 104-10179-10121

## Page 1

104-10179-10121

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

COUNTRY

$USECT

TELEGRAM IN ORMATION REP. RI| TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Do a sla coded it ole start ol a da to a one it Vetera, to a rate o at Bestorage Lama Tra I, US. 30c.

SECRET

(MAST MUAS 18)

NOFORN) CON

CON

ARNTROLS

CUBA

Marted [o

STATEMENTS OF MANOLA RAY,

EXILE LEADER

OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

DATE OF

sose returndREORT NO. TDOS - 3/490,978.

DATE DISTR

• 24 OCTOBER 1961

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

RiFERENCES

INFO

PLACE A

осто 190

IN 11257

DATE ACO

APPRAISAL

ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)

FIELD REPORT NO.

OLL $ 30,995

THIS IS UNEYALUATED INFOSMATICM SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIYE

SOURCE

' IN CARACAS". 24

IF ROM

"'SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS, AMONG EXILES

1a MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO

DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENÍ.) SAID IN

EARLY OCTOBER THAT ME WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA,

INSISTING THAT CASTROIS OVERTHROW WAS TO 55 ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL

RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED

BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT MAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33

TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.

RAY ESTIMATED 8O. PERCENT OF POPULATION HERE DEPOSED TO CASTRO,

THOUGH MAJORITY WERE OT ACTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDEREO THE MRP AT

PRESENT ENJOYED MORE. JUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

CLASSIFICATION → DISSEMINATIDS CONTROLS

STATE

SECRET

ARMY/ACSI

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NAVY

AIR

105 1 560

SECDEF NSA

LTRAASUNYE

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAMI

gOaN 1389

3/g0

---

