# 104-10273-10317

## Page 1

1104-10273-103171

OPE

VIAR

NUMBER

wub. nu.

в? од 04

18833

$351

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION /Circle il eppropriate) IDE CHARAGTERSI

CABLE

ĐLM

FORL

•LETTER

map we were gar

FROM/ORIGINATOR (JO CHARACTERSI

DC Sec Ana Group-Brown

CLASS

WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

S

SUBJECT IB0 CHARACTERS!

Hemming, Gerald Patrick.

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

DAY

MONTM I YEAR

11 Jun 76

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

c/ Sec Ana Group

DDO!

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

DAY MONTH

YEAR

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DEGSION TO 110 OURACTERS| COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

cits

A

DATE

OF

REVIEW

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLG

REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

FOIA

B1 82 Đ3

BA B5 B6 B7C

BUNNI KI

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

E. 0. 12356

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Infornation which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

7. Location

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16.

Privacy of other individual

17.

Does not pertain to reguest

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(K) (1)

(j) (1

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(i) (1)

(j) (1)

(3) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(1) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(5) (1)

(b) (7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS IIF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVEI 140 CHARACTERS:

1

REMARKS 1160 CHARACTERE

HSCA Rev at H9s 1977; Pawley, Seymour, Sturgis, Cobra VolII

Box # 5a; 4

14

---

## Page 2

13-00000

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

• HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

SF#429 229

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENMING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING

contacted the writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

_Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with

the. case of

Gerald Patrick HENNING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

to the below-nentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the

Station.

(TN 944357,

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

-;, dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatenalan source, with the knowledge

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided thel

[Station.

a written report,

and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

Iccording to the informa-

the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

1975; however,

"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. - The

HEMMING brothers

assisted LINERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which

were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

18833

SECRET

EZ IMPDE1

CL. BY 063994

---

## Page 3

13-00000.

NOTE: The

Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

on 8 June.

said that he

had

been providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatenalan government for the past six months or

50.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans

as about

six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4.

The Guatemalan

report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

DoeS ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S.

authorities which

permit him to carry firearms

as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6. Office. of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

employment, ate paysacent that perand Pativity HEMMING

employment,

is identical with the subject of. 'Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described

as six-foot five,

250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and

who

as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's

INVAVE.

On

HEAMING

had clained Agency affiliation when in fact there has been

The most recent incident wherein HENNING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HESMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

long-time record of

Frans FIORIN' falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

In

the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

Joined ricel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafte

claiming iisillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Commuzist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HE MING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENNING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

and an extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F.

Kennedy

is a diatribe

against the

and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY®

One of the najor

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HENNING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting

that he did so after Gerald Patrick HENNING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISN's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SOMET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

- PER

10161 COPIES

SEGRET

SSCIOD ETFOCE S PROMiel

1949 A8BNE8

STAFF

-.-"'."-.?8.

_E .

VR .

-- 47 67

PAGE 8,4-84

TOR:DB2242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

SECRE

---

## Page 6

13-000.00 :

11 June 1976

MEMORANDITi FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

SF#429 229

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational' Evaluation

Section for information concerning

Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HENNING

contacted the writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

Station

reporting an assassination plot on

the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JMNAVE

to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the l

[Station.

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

..;, dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached..

In substance, the

cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

Jorge Antonio

Safie left Guatemala

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two. Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. - The

HEMMING brothers

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things,

were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

and New Orleans.

18833

SDORET

IMPDET

EZ BY D63994

X

---

## Page 7

13-00000.

NOTE: The

_Station also included

information the Chief of Station) had received

on 8 June.

said that he

had seen providing Information on

ZINERI to the

Guatenalan

government for the past six months or

50.

He claimed

that two Americans

were involved

with

ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard

service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and

weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him

to Guatemala.

c. Is ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S. authorities

which

permit him to carry firearms,

as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

activity,

alleged employment, at is apparent that perala Patrick HERMING

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five,

250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) In

Miami, Florida.

2

SEGRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000 •

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JAVE.

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's

HENMING

had claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has been

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

Tre record Of falseay catens Arency ahealet bas

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

1950'5 HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Connunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully

established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan

government expose of this

assassination plot

involving HENMING, you are

referred to attachnents to instant

memorandun, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F. Kennedy

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts™

to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

thereafter dropped his interest in HAlL, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HENNING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

JerIy G. BrOwn

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SEGRET

---

