# 104-10161-10372

## Page 1

104-10161-10372

•• '*

AAC-1270

# JUL 15-3

MI. Raymond F. Farrell

Commissioner of Immigration

and Naturalization

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

Attention: MI. Frank E. Bartos

Dear Sir:

SUBJECT: Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Labere

(A 13 721 684)

Reference is made to conversations between Mrs. Edith

Byard of your Service and Mr. (C

Jof this Agency

relative to the subject.

03

Forwarded herewith is the old Alien Registration Receipt

Card (Form I-151) of the subject.

Your cooperation in this matter is very much appreciated.

Sincerely,

SIGNEN

Victor R. White

Deputy Director of Security

(Investigations and Operational Support)

inte

Enclosure.

CENTRAL hatchericans mucius.

100933,

OS/AA

XJFR:es

28 June 1968

Tote:

::1.

'i i

SECURT

Ec:

•ra? astemal!.

terr

Fien

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTICE TO RECIPIENT

DOCUMENT RECEIPT

Sign and Return as Shown on Reverse Side

SENCER OF DOCUMENTS) -

ROOM

/. Wienckowski, C/ Alien Affairs Staff

4 E 32

ALDG.

Hdq.

DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT(S) SENT

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT TITLE

COURIER REC. NO.

DATE SENT

DATE DOCUMENT(5) SENT

CIA NO.

AAC-1270

COPIES

1

1

JUL 1968

ATTACHMENTS

Old AR Card -

A 13 721 684

CLASS

SECHET

RECIPIENT

ADDRESS OF RECIPIENT

119 D St., N. E.

FORM

12-61 615

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CKNOWIEOGING RECEIPT OF ABOVE DOCUMENTS)I

anne

hear

DATE OF RECEIPT

7/2/05

1331

-air

For

(Rov. o

ROUTE SLIP 4-26-681

Date -

To

Nr. Wienckowski

Room

[Approval

[J Comment

L Necessary action

J Per telepho

onversatic

Remarks

Note & Return

Note & File

Signature

See me

As requested

_ For your informa-

tion

Call me Exe.

Please pick up the old I-151 and

return it to this office.

?.:

?!?y

15...

From

E. Byard

IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE

Room

GPO 922-615

---

