# 104-10120-10275

## Page 1

104-10120-10275]

....

- €

SECRET

29 Septenber 1960

File W0o K-749

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, NE

:

If. Gardner

: Calvin W. HICKS

Establishment of Official Cover Backstop

: Fosta 1322, dated 21 September 1960

which utilizes the

In endape with above reference dEflelal cover backstopping

has been established for the above-named individual. All information

concerning this cover arrangement is available in the Official Cover

and Liaison Section, CCD.

2. It is requested that OCL/CCD be notified when this cover

arrangement

is no longer required. Any changes in the Subject's Head-

quarters status should be coordinated with this office for the determi-

nation of need for continued documentation and cover.

3. Subject has been issued Unit ID Card No:_

363

for

domestic use only. In accordance with arrangements made with Offices

of Security and Personnel, the above documentation will be picked up

by a CPB representative for any individual making a PCS move from Head-

quarters or an overséas TDY trip.

In the case of the PCS traveler, CPB

will return this documentation to OCL/CCD for disposition. For the TDY

traveler, this documentation will be retained by CPB and returned to the

TDY traveler upon completion of the trip. In the event of a resignation

from the Agency, OCL/CCD will obtain the documentation fron the employee

at the time of the employee's debriefing conference.

/S/ PAUL P. STEWART

JOSEPE M. ADAMS

Chief, Official Cover & 4231593z SCD: Branci, CCG

Cc:

Personnel Security Division,

Office of Security

FORM

5 - 60

1554

SECRET

1009

(8. 81)

---

