# 104-10186-10290

## Page 1

104-10186-10290

INFORM

HON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Fernando RAVELO

DATE DISTR

CSCI-316/00264-64

21 July 1064

NO. PAGES

• REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

DATE OF

1963 - 1964

INFO.

Background Use Only

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. July 1961

Washington, D. C. Do Not Reproduce

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who serred with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untll April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

2. Il is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym "Fermia Rodriguez, " is the

Panamanian Desk Officer In the Departamento de Liberacion Naclonal

(LN) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General

Directorate of Intelligence) in Habana. He has never been in

Panama. Until October or November 1963 RAVELO was the

number two man in Union Juventud Communista (UJC) in Habana.

RAVELO Is a captain in the Army. 1

Headquarters Comment

1. The reords of this Agency reveal no identifiable informatlon

on Fernando RAVELO.

5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DIA

NAW

REP CINCLANT

CINCSO "

"Aore: Field steribution indoned by "'$")

INFORMATION REPORT

MI SA BOBT WER TACT LIA

UTUSA MOIT

WE MADR & CIRES

WH. SA R

MAN NO 1

WH/SA 7 (L), WE 1 (2), CI4, RID 1

ORSOLETE PIVIOUS FOSTICTS

NSA

I & NS

TFBT 2

INFORMATION REPORT

LX-1595 1x--274

TE

I WASH

TNO PROJECT

(AMMUG-1)

i CSCI-316/00263064

612185%

201- None

J15R

ISEA

---

