# 104-10133-10404

## Page 1

104-10133-10404

SERRES

RETURN TO CU

Backgre und lise Or.

Cu Not Reproduce

HH/C06: 344-74

10 January 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

: Salvatore Glancana and Richard Caln

REFERENCE

: Chicago Tribune Articles of 28 and 31

Decenber 1973

1. A routine name check was conducted on Salvatore

Glancana with negative results.

A check was then made with

the office of security to determine whether their records

reflected that one Salvatore Giancana was ever employed by

CIA as alleged in the referenced Chicago Tribune article of

31 December 1973. He were advised that any inquiries con-

cerning this matter should

be made to Mr. Breckinridge,

Deputy Inspector General. WH/COG touched base wich Mr.

Breckinridge who said that he had received a copy of the

referenced article.

We have developed the following information on

Richard Cain, subject of the referenced 28 December 1973

Chicago Tribune article.

Richard S. Cain was born in Chicago,

Illinois in October 1931. He dropped out of the first year

of high school in 1947 and enlisted in the U.S.

Army Where

he served until discharged In 1950. Following his army service

he was associated with investigative enterprises in Miamt and

Chicago.

In 1956 he entered the Chicago Police Department

(Vice Squad) where he remained until 1960, Concurrent with

that employment he operated the Accurate Laboratories, a private

investigative business. Listed below is a chronology of CIA

contacts with Cain:

E2 IMPDET

CL BY: 054555

A.

Fall of 1960 • Cain inteiated contact

with the DCD Chicago Field Office and vol-

untarily provided

information on the activ-

itles of Cuban exile groups in the Chicago

area.

troin file

Bilhard 891

SECRET

CAiN #272141

5430175065155

---

## Page 2

SEGRFT

- 200.

June 1961 - Cain contacted Mr. Lohmann,

of the Chicago Fleld Office, to report an

approach made to him by a Mr. Kroupansky

who reportedly was negotiating with the

President of Panama to Investigate communism

in Panama.

Cain was to assist Kroupansky in

this endeavor.

C.

Summer of 1961 - Cain was met in Mexico

City by a CIA staffer, identity unknown,

purpose unknown.

D. October 1961 - Cain wrote to Mr. Lohmann

from Panama.

He reported on his findings of

attitudes toward the U. S. in certain Central

American countries and offered his services to

the

Agency.

E. April 1962 - Cain made an unannounced visit

03 to Agency representatives Minston Scott and

in Mexico City and informed them

of an investigative agency he had in Mexico

(with branches in Chicago and Los Angeles) which

he used to provide police training to Mexican

Government agents.

Caln could provide no proof

of U.S. citizenship.

He was told by Messrs.

Scott andl

that the U.S. Ambassador did

not

approve of American citizens becoming involved

in Mexican politics.

F.

& June 1962 - Cain was deported from Mexico

for carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles,

impersonating a Mexican Government official, and

violating his tourist peralt by working.

G.

19 August 1963 - Cain was met at the Lake

Shore Drive Athletic Club and Adolphs Club in

Chicano. Illinois by HH Division staff officer,

, and the Chief of the Chicago DCD

The contact report states that in the

distant future Caln would itke to wore overseas.

possibly with CIA. It was pointed out to Cain

that his

current cooperation with CIA might be

of benefit to him should ha apply for employment

with CIA in the future. At this time cain worked

-2-

BR

---

## Page 3

• 3-

for the cook county sheriff's office.

He

also was in contact with Cubans in the Chicago

area who were involved in ventures which were

not completely legal.

Cain was told of Agency

requirements in general, and agreed to assist

the Agency by providing information on under

cover activities of the Cubans, especially

Paulino Sterra and his contacts, providing

names of any Cubans who might be useful to

CIA, and noting

In particular rumors of any

CIA contacts in

¡ the Chicago area.

25 and 30 August 1963 - Information from

Cain to the DCD Chicago Office was passed to

the Cuba Desk at Headquarters.

The 26 August

information concerned the Student Directory, a

Cuban exile group located in Mtami, Florida.

The 30 August Information reported

Miro Cordozo's

interest in purchasing arms.

05

I.

11 September 1963 -

requested

• PCSA/CSA on Cain but there is no

Indication

it was ever granted.

J.

12 September 1963 - Cain reported to the

Chicago Field Office information on persons

claiming to be representatives of the DRE

Directorio Revolucionario Estudlantil - who

purchased arus for the DRE.

Cain planned

another meeting with. the alleged DRE rep-

resentatives.

via DCD Washington

and DCD Chicago, got word to cain to "get out

of the picture"

as soon as possible and to make

no commitments.

1967 - The Office of Security flles show

that the FBI in 1967 Initlated an Investigation

on Cain because of alleged Mafia connections.

For this reason the FBI recommended that CIA

terminate its assoclation with Cain.

L.

15 April 1972 - Cain returned to Chicago fron

Mexico

City, then

disappeared about I May 1972

= 3-00

SECRET

*

BR

---

## Page 4

0sbi2)

saying he was going to Latin America.

Cain allegedly was

involved in illegal

international arms deals and on varfous

occasions stated he was working for CIA.

M.

16 May 1972, An FBI agent in Mexico

City asked

for traces

on Cain. According

to the FBI an Eastern

Arlines pilot had identified Cain as the

skyjacker who forced him to fly to Honduras

on 5 Hay 1972.

There is no Indication that a clearance was ever

granted for the use of Cain by the Agency or that he receivad

any compensation from the Agency.

We have been unable to

substantlate Cain's claim that he worked for the oss during

WW. II.

Orville Bathe

Distribution:

Orig

& 1 • Addressee

1 • COG Chrono

1 - COG/0S

D= off.

- Originator

1

= 201-323879C. L. Howe

DDO/WH/COG/OS:CHopkins:rb (typed 10 Jan. 74)

---

