# 104-10079-10221

## Page 1

104-10079-10221

1o

DO NOT BEPROLUCES YR 4e»

RETURN TO CIA

1(35 402509

A3ECY

Babiestic. Background ned A

CD/00 Case 43961

He Bass 2955

ent

Information on Profeaso

univeraity

,8

205

University

one of var cleared soureco ot

Invornity he recently contraco

our vadoratanding of Frofessor

cond and bia edenty or intere at man back-

prenus that most or all of the inpartant bando biograpate date on

)2e aratinate to D00F.

For that resos, we will not attempt to

supply uny crest mount of thie emept an 1t will prortte a better setting

for tuto desoranent.

Or normal source description for

represonta & capsulo sumery

dr his tachyond the falloring aiditicon palate dovaloped by our

source seen to be eclovent.

10

a)

06

1. 4, 1.

was born Lal

France. Me father 18 & IN

His nother

but my

was Branch at the tins of his bires,

since have beer inturalized in thie country.

opent lio jouch altamataly in Arace or tsa uS

and crew up to be demolotaly billagual in thene too ling-

veged.

He spente Franch vith no forciga accent.

Arter attendingl

UnIveralty, he took graduate vort

1a Franch at

o8 During this Inttes period, in 1948

he joined the Free Freuch orces, ves cominaioned a loutmant

theresa and curves in Africa under (eneral Lacunts in the cera-

badgh trod Inke Chid to Inlait Ister be vas vonded in

Italys nearly locing his

8 Ee spent

about two years in a headra

recovaring and wes marded

Arter the war.

poastion ati

no completed hie saduate work and took a

unvertty me stinguinhed bizzolf In.

the performoe,

af his duttes there. To was hired fron

juntvorasty cud has bean at the latter ever

at this particulor parsed.

06

06

Somebore along the line,

was converted to Catholicien

and our sourco describes bin an i devout Catholle. He tor-

zied s

fron wbon be hnn boen nepersted in recent

emoment) 1s s freat sinler al Frenident DeCoulle and knows

him personally. He bas a atrong and cotinuing interoat in

French polities and while our noured does not know mach of

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Boy 18,

2VN

11168

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S2/00 CeBo 48962

30

de

tho

5.

ni?'

ova peroeni, politen, foolas,

It Les in the Center Right.

Enesses that

he has an interest in Delaullo and the esnlllets, hus

may friends in French sovarmat md army cindee and hoeps

Informed min the fresch press end his on carrespondance en

surent conditiona le Iranes,

upon at

Jovante and bafere

1s frogs thy called

Locture on conditions in France to le entremely well 10-

formed and does this jarticuler to 1o s supartor amer.

In adultion, ho fenle an obllentson to explain sedalle'a

and Caulliot veus La tita coatry shen he 10 anted to do 10-

Our source doveribeal

Jas being an Idealiet and an

enthuntant, uno 1o Inalinad to put these feoling tato cotton,

as for example van he fained the Ise Mech at & time when

the us was not actively fighting the carme.

At Feat

o in Fraze on o crant which allowe

him to mars on the mnueripto of the late Erasah author,

According to our nonce, ho celettos for endo.

cant represente a bonor anong cobolare..

In edition to the above savite, our soures coatired at ensotte over-

all Inpresatens about

mich have been instated In NlEs end sunco

about him formanted over the pant alt yeura. In the etrovnstances of his

tally my cultue beritag, 1t 1e quite natiral that

Isola

develop on active interst In Prance in satters Frant ObEse Juble

explanatton or present conditione in hume reflent lie contain

close assoctation with his friendo and envosiates then, any ai iti

we In pOlIties, sovernant of the altary.

our source ages tie wi,

however,

that this tt not a case of divided loya ty hetvem the US and

France

He foals that

Le a loyal Anerior to has a Lous

tanding and legitimic interest In Ince. Moa our sua contacts vito

ve oar not disagree with tola.

06

access to poople ts Frenco acveranut and may circine 1e

best expressed in tha

series of reports subritted fexs him under Cases

10413, 31605 and 35235.

A roule al thin mieried sall provide clea

evidence of the range of his parsonal sanelations in France fror Presi

dent Decoulle as dora.

6

Durind the joes ot our contiming contect with

we have never

had readon to questio hat discretion or personal conduct.

Lei Apper

cation of Agmey reguirents that ve bave disewined with his la bocr

cles and complete.

If mything, ho has barone wore more of our neede

so hãs experience vith us has lncrensed.

---

## Page 3

14-00600

CD/00 Case 42951

•3-

perscaable ladividual who bus a viße range

vith us, inesdentally, that hts lapest on

of Interoels.

СИЕ ВСЫГОС ОДИСОВ

alumid groupe must be

bots conasdersale and favoteale.

tht2e our experience with

has boon both peative and productive,

ve vould emphantre on point. s demale made en his la eu colloction

o PT end the cacstone ho has portiss on entirely mitforeat fro

thate that would mll ander s salationship with the sol. our rela

tonship has bean able to complemany

ability to explais the

Caultint view in o may that will serve bie on govertment and whies will

not daungo his personal má professional enteets and ascoeletions in

France.

In other words, the colleation of VPI - which in this instance

has bean substantial - 10 a form of cooperation under which l

protected. The needs and operationg of the Do/?, on the other band,

Introduce i etrang and continuing elemat of risk for bin. le have beca

B3на tO BBC36

possible performance in an astanl "approach*

and recruitment® altuatio.

Tho potential in "approach' and recrist

ment' astuations 1o to us quito t'ormidablo. ubIt takes no atretch of the

inagination to foresos the min of

professional cares 1a

Prance (and possibly here en vall) a loss of his long standing friend-

ships there 1f an operation tavalving his vere to 8o sour..

there 18 no

ronson to believe that he vill not resoguise this potential moutataly

If operational satters are Alscussed with his.

Frenkly, ve can not

prodiet his roaction to this sort of thire, but va doubt that he 1e naive,

let alone naive enough to put hinsole voltarily under the millotice.

To

As wa have indieuted curser,

travel plane 1a vest Brope

are for the mont part little knom by hin escociates at

le by desser to sive

the miest freeden of novenas varle ho

16 abrond.

Do so ena baza 10

the us for a few days in early June, but

w1l1 not be in(

Followtoe this, ho will retum brierly

to France and vill epend the sumer travellus, probably in other coutries

of West Durope.

Before be leitl

127.

63, kn sold is that be

would like to drive throug the Soltnarts countries during this codne

surmer, but, ve have no way of confiring this non. inue, it would supsar

that

Juill spend very little time in Frange fran here m cut -

vory littla tum et any me place in leat Europe for that vatter.

00 24

8.

A second cleared source at

obtained, the shove brief travel plan

tron a friend ofl

so visited

last resend. Beloving

that ve might viables spent vith hia mile ho is 1a the la, our source

arranged through this mutal friend for Mal

of thia cafice to nava

en sprolatasat with l

on 3 Jun 6e at 5:30 PM In For Xork City.

In the event that a DD/P iepresentative would vish to meet

that tine.

Teauld keep this appolatant 1e hie coupery.

101603

---

## Page 4

14-00600

CE/CO Case 42

06

9.

Inde appeara to. to the only empertmity to met eith

his briat pardod in the Wl onat manth. Our

cring

source een breat

the aprontant 19 there do no dentre in dons to heap it. Our essenl.

landion 1121 bare to de dono by soll in tho fori el o lotter fros our

sourcer for this resoon entrtelens tino vill ham to lo Moved Par

the mallo. Please sarise «s notties es not tito expelntane anoila

Do kanties tho enliost ponilaßo munt, certainly by 20 My.

tesser drin

Man, CA

7356

Kas tie

2yams

Box 18

#

+8

z/pr

---

