# 104-10219-10110

## Page 1

(104-10219-10110]

SEGRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20505

25 JAN 19€8

MMORANDUN YOR!

BUBJBCT

Director

Hatlonal Becurity. Agency

& VIlLION E. MAITIN

On 15 January 1968 tale Asency recedrod the

follo ins information fron our liaison contact de the

Do ACCORGIAS PO BUCKARY, MARTIN WIshes tO nee: Die

parento for compassionate reasons and vants to now 11 ho

nould be adultted to Canada nithout fear of ortradition to

the Unltod States 11 he vero to arranzo a rondez-yous mita

h1s paronts da Vancouver.

te do not know phother MANTIN

still has a United States pasport or rothor he has becone

3 Soviet citizen.

In any event MARTIN considers bimelt

sandalesible to the Unlted Statoo.

C.

BUCKLIT BOt MARTIN at the apartment or

Howard RAUSCH, the Moscow corresponsent for MiGrat-illl

Publications.

In additIon MARTIN later telerboad BUCKET

to ladicate his Interest in finding out whether or not be

could come to canada.

EUCKLEY assumes, quite rightly !

would think, that the manner 1a obsca

MARTIN bae sade bla

roquent Indicates that his Russlan nocto aro arare of ais

Interest In settine out of the Sovlet Union to see hla parente.

d.

We have Inforned our limbaony that it should

fate no action to encourage DOCILSY OF MARTIN to belleve that

• visa could be grantod li MATIN vero to make formal

appliention.

Since, sowever, INiTIN'E saterest la comter to

Canada 18 sIrendy in a nerspaperman'S bands, ve caanot rule

Such a story sould probably load to the need for

an expression of the Canadian Goverment 's attitude.

Im

making reconsondations on the kind of response that night be

nade in the event that a question 18 put to my Minister, 1t

SEC'ET

51G-356

sati

---

## Page 2

14-00000

...l

SECRET

so lar as the Daltod States la concernod.

11, for example.

pour Govorment could not take legal action, the Canadia:

anthoritsea vould be la a position 11 tbia matter came to

publle attention to say that they tore not avare of any

barrier provonting MAATI! Iron seeing his pareate in the United

States.

• should be noet graterul it through your channelm

ne could be provided inforaally olth an indication of

MARTIn's otatus in lav In the United States.

..

BUCKLEY's only otser comment on MARTIN 5aS that

De dida'& really koon shat to make of MARtIN.

B9:n0d

outapoken in dealing with the shortcomings of l1fe

In the Soviet Unlos.

On the otbor band ho apore with a

slight stanner and seened nervous.

BUCKLET'& vien 10% vbst

18 1e vorth 1s that KAITIN la not Interested In setting late

troublo with the russians or doin, anything shich they migat

consider underhandod.

I should capbasize that no nember of

the Canadian Embassy ns had any dlroct contact uitt disTIll.

2.

On 18 January 1968 the Fedoral Bureau of Investigation

3, This Agency was adulaed by the Department of State

on 19 January that Subject's parents had writton to the

Departmont adulaing that Subject rould lie to visit his

parents,

Rhat he as plannias a vialt to Canada,

inguiring

what Bubject's legal position vould be 11 ho old

Radeed vialt.

to Department lasicated that it planned te

Inqulre that the D. 5. Embassy in Hoscow knew of Bubjoct®

Bravel plans, Includias a check with the Canadian fabassy to

neertain 11

Subject had applied for a vias.

The Departoent

vas apprised of the informal Canadlen Inoulry as to Subject'

status, but indicated that it vould roirain fron making any

reference to this inculry 18 seening Information from the

D. B. Esbanay 1n hoscor.

!. Our representativo tal

was spprised of the

devolopments cited in paragraph: above,

and recuested to

pass then on to the liainon contact, on 19 January 1968.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: James R. Hunt

JAMES ANGLITON

CBCI 316/00326-68

cc:

Department of State

Federal Bureau of Investigation

SEGRFT

a states

!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEENET

I/DC/CANADA: Jillowley:es - 29 January 1068

Based on:

12663 12 Jamary 1968

Distrlbutton:

OrlE. & 1 - Addressee •

CI/2k

PID/ C3B

1.

E/DC/ Canada

State

1 - FBI

SEGNS

---

