# 104-10169-10079

## Page 1

104-10169-10079

DISPATCH

= 131"43

SECRET

Chief of Stations, casso

i20 incid -0l4811e6

Chief, HE

SUBJECT ICHARVEST/LUCIES

Tracea on Darid SUBOIS and We Le

Bo DUBOL.

ACTION REQUIREO METE FENCES

38:8:410

Referees MICA 10382, dated 23 May 1961

I. David DUBORS 1s no donbt identlenl with David Grahan MeClints,

(201-27141) born 9 March 1925 1n Senttle, Washington to Shadrach and ShirleY

Graham MeCAstS. MeCANS In know to have used the names David GRAHAM, David

Go McCarms DUBOLS and David DUBOIS. He in desortbed an 5 feet 9anches tall,

Blender build, adth a scar over his rigit eyu and a pock marked face. MeCAMY

muried Clarine Johnson on 1 lay 1949 und ma divorced in Septenber 1952e

Do Records on flle Indiente that LoCAllS has annociated through the Joure

w1th comnist donnated os inmpind organtintions sch an the loung Progresive

of Amries, tha Amrican Labor Party and the World Pederation of Denoerstie

Touths. In 1950 he attended the Norld Student Congress at Prague, & meeting

In Chine of the Norld Federstion of Demertle louth and the Soviet Annivermary

Celebration in Mason. At the time of HeCling? vialt to Moscon, pro eomnit

and anti-U31 statements mure attributed to HeCANS over Radio Moscow and in the

"Peoples Chine," In 1952/53 he mon reported to have bean a prese operater for

the commandst organ "pally Worker."

So In July 1950, MoGANS min lamed a passport for edx montha tremel In

France, England and Suitserland for the purpose of social marvice study. In

195%, his passport van plaked up by ODACT and man found to contain vims to

Franco, Crochonlovakin, Sultserland, Aumtala and China.

CONTEXTE

Matrtbutions

Or180 & 1 = Addreszoe

RETURN TO CIA

Beckground Uce Only

Do Not Reproduc

CS COPY

DATE TYPED

GATE DISPAICIED

21. Detober: 1761 ^ 3 NOV 196

DIEPATCH SYMDOS ANG MUMEER

HEADUUANTENS FILE AUMBER

800272241

"ROUTING

" INTA!

1196103

Ii/3/c:h:

OUGINATING

mah

LENNADINATING "

2876

HATe

190н.0н 0 нAM8

RI/TY

Arare 03

1: 4.:

RVGL

DIRT TYRIAN

4b8.

• NUV 1461

100

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SpiritT

: its in Sistiate as 4: 50563

180H-7448

In 1959 MeCaras unplied for and received a second passport for three

montha tourist travel ta Ahiland and France MeCANS failed to anmir questions

in his application as to nother ho was then or had ever been a sander of the

Communist Party. In Detairer 1959 ODENY lourned that MCCANiS vas enralled In

Pelding Univeralty and had been there since Sepiember 195% ODENVY further

learned that HeCANS planned to study in Peking for three years and then remain

In China to work.

So During an Intender on 12 September 1957 by ODENVI, MeCANNS Nas amled

11 he had ever been a manbar of the CP to which he replled ult is none of your

busdness." In ansver to a further question as to whether he considered the

CP to be a subveraive arganisation, MeCANNS replied "I consider the CP to be

the name as any other polliferl party and 1t is none of your businesa 1f I

have ever belonged to it," MeCANNS refused to anmer any further questiona

and terinated the interview.

6o During an interuler on 10 November 1960 with MeCANIS? nother,

Mro. W. I. Bo DUBOIS, the latter stated that MeCS as no longer realding in

Pairing but un unemployed and touring Franse.

To The statemnt in partgraph 1 of rolerence that his wires firet name

1n Shirley 1n ponrbly Inorrect, Insel sa 211 iGordo ou hand inicate that

the nune of MeCANNg? nother me Shirley Graham MOCANNS, who married a

Dro N. Jo Be DUBOIS in Fearuary 1958. II MeCANNS has merried somone by the

men of Shirley 1t 1n nad mollected by any docimente on hand at this tine.

8o Dro N. I. Bo DUDDIS, step-father of MCCANNS, 18 wall kaorm to ODINVY

and his commist affiliations are vell substantlated by nunerous doements.

Mrs. Shirley Graham MOCANNA DUBOIS also has a long record o! association vita

coumniet organiraticon and han bean Identified an a comuniet in a mmber

of documenta.

9o for your Infarntion, ODINVI has requested that se roport on a

contiming banis any infarmation ve iny obtain conserning MeCANtS" notivities

while abroad. Pleane ponen Headquarters any further ja'ormation you may have

noguired on NeCANNS for traneminion to ODENVI.

ARS

SCOTT I. BUSHORAN

CONTINUE

PAGI NO

---

