# 104-10162-10222

## Page 1

104-10162-10222

DATE 10/8/93

LOST/MISSING MATERIAL

THE DOCUMENT OR PAGE(S) LISTED BELOW WAS/WERE MISSING

DURING THE DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW BY THE HISTORICAL

REVIEW GROUP, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE.

DOCUMENT NO.

DATED:.

1963

PAGE (5) -

of ciA 6 PAGE MEMO

FROM:

CIA JOB NO. MICROFILA-ARTIME

BOX NO. -

FOLDER NO. JW

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use One

Do Not Reproduo

---

## Page 2

r..

that 18g

they would be close enough for him to "reach

for thes."

in contact with AMBIDDY/l's group.

Specifically, Chief

SAS mentioned a younger case officer to help our

representative, a man-of-allwork, a translator, and tw

radio operators.

AMBIDDY/1 assured that he had a man for

the Job of translator.

D. No Contract Yet:

Chief SAS emphasized at this

time, as he did on several other occasions during the

conversatior, that he was not empowered to "sign a contract"

with AMBIDDY/l and he emphasized in equally strong terns

that this assistance does not include any commitments of

U.S. troops under any circumstances; except that, as

Secretary of Defense McNanara had previously stated, t

U.S. would not stand idly by if the Soviet Union shoul

commit its troops to surpress a popular uprising of the

Cuban people.

Any victory won would be a Cuban vict ry.

Chief SAS stipulated the above four points to be the

ground rules for the exploratory and actual work relation-

ship between AMBIDDY/1

and the Agency.

K. At this point, Chief SAS turned to the questions

which must be answered before the next step can be taken

In this plan.

It would be necessary for AMBIDDY/l to

furnish the following:

..I.. A base fron which to operate.

Individuals dedicated and stout-hearted enough

to return to the fight of freeing Cuba.

3.. A general plan as to what can be done and

how to go about it.

It this point, Chief SAS emphasized again that this is to

be a "Cuban 'show" and an attempt to prove that Fidel can

be destroyed by the efforts of the Cuban people.

Chief SAS rewinded AMBIDDY/1 that the first order

of business was to be the procurement of a base and that

ANBIDDY/1 should proceed after a waiting period of approximately

three days to survey the Caribbean area.

Specifically

mentioned by Chief SAS vere Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua,

and Colombia.

At this time AKBIDDY/1 mentioned that he had

been told by WAVE representatives to scratch Nicaragua as a

possible base for the reason that this is a "dictatorship."

RETURN TO CIA!

Background Une Only

Do Not Rubradua

---

## Page 3

14-00000

visit

AIBIDDY/1 was told, and he pointed out himself, that the

use of & piece of property in Nicaragua should not be

interpreted as the acceptance of the Nicaraguan government's

philosophy.

The possibility of a Nicaraguan base was

accepted

Chief SAS made it perfectly clear that 1f

AKBIDDY/1's negotiations with these governments should be

leaked or 11 the U.S. Governent were officially asked 1f

1t has a part to play, the U.S. Government would deny

any part in the activity. On the other hand it was

suggested that AMBIDDY/1 might possibly find it easier to

procure & base if he were to say that the U.S. Government

might assist him if he had a base from which to operate.

Again Chief SAS indicated that whereas the U.S. Government

would not be willing to formally admit any participation.

1t corid concciiiily inse known its sympathy with AHBIDDY/1's

plans and activity and give its "unofficial" nod.

In

general, AMBIDDY/1 was made t understand that the hand

of the U.3. Government cannot and will not be revealed,

but at the same time we would be willing to unofficially

and infornally assist, however possible.

G.

Chief SAS told AXBIDDY/1 that once he had pr, sured

& base and prepared & plan, it would be possible for Chief

SAS to take the operation one step further and

seek

approval in Mashington. Chief SAS observed tL't word

will get around that AMBIDDY/l has the support of the u.s.

Government, which, of course, we will deny. AMBIDDY/1

Informed Chief SAS that he had already begun building

the story of support by certain Central American countries

and even Buropean aid, specifically from General DeGaulle

Chief SAS stated that he raised this particular polet

regarding probably leaks of U.S. support to AMBIDDY/1 with

the thought that this would result in a great number of

Cubans, who really want to fight Castro and Communist,

rallying to AMBIDDY/1. This would mean that AMBIDDY/1

would find it necessary to be selective in his choice of

collaborators. AMBIDDY/l agreed that "quality" should be

the criteria.

Chief SAS observed that the number of collaborators

would determine how many people would be needed to support

the operation, as would the size of the base. The conversa

tion duelt for some time on the equipment that would be

needed and AMBIDDY/1 informed Chief SAS that he had a PC

Boat with two General Motor's engines. Chief SAS stated

that he would like to have a representative of his in the

WAVE area see AMBIDDY/l's boat, in order to assess its

general seaworthiness.

This was fine with AMBIDDY /1.

In

this

connection AMIDDY/1 stated that he can provide a

crew for this boat, the mechanics necessary to keep it in

operation, as well as men familiar with wéapons and logistics.

6.0227

---

## Page 4

AMBIDDY/1 obviously was not too sure of his strength in

the logistical field.

Chief SAS noted that he might be

*ble to lend a log officer to help in this regard.

So

far as radio operators are concerned, A BIDDY informed

Chief SAS that he has these but that he does not bave the

necessary equipment. To close his part of the conversation,

Chief SAS referred again to the fact that his representative

would be present to advise the group, that it would not be

necessary to completely agree with the advice, and that if

another could be substituted for him.

In lact the adoles sent to loan, eIg

hastened to assure Chief SAS that they would certainly be

able to get along with his representative, and that he

fOrESAW NO ULIILCULLY OI gELLINg Un WiLL LiE PIUiT GI

finding a base and presenting a plan.

Chief SAS emphasized

that he did not want a minutely detailed plan, but the

concrete outline of AMBIDDY/l's ideas.

At this point Chief

SAS asked AHBIDDY,1 to take up whatever points he had 1n

mind.

These follow:

AMBIDDY/1's Statenent:

AXE"DDY/l has had

some problems along the following llues:

An inability to work out satisfactorily

a radio program to be beamed to Cuba.

According

to AMBIDDY/1, a plan has been worked out for a

ten. "nute program, three times weekly on a station

which beams largely to the exile community and is

able to reach only a very limited part of Cuba.

This is not a satisfactory solution to their (MRR)

problem.

Problems surrounding publication of issue

number two of his newspaper.

Apparently the

station wants another memo from AMBIDDY/1 regarding

lesue number two.

(Chief SAS took up with WAVE

on 2 May .)

AMBIDDY/1 states. that approximately one

month ago he had raised the question of the

architect convention to be held in Cuba, and that

he had provided WAVE & contact with an exile

mrchitect but that nothing concrete had come of

this to date.

Note:

At this point Chief sas

reminded AHBIDDY/1• that it has been difficult to

arrive at a solution of certain problems during

this period when so much attention has been diverted

to the problems of the hit-and run raids and the

crisis within the CHC.)

Cuat

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Succi

d.

ANBIDDY/1 stated that with a dissolution

of the CRC, his organization would be cut off

from its support of

some $4,000 monthly.

Apparent!

the MRR was paid $4,000 for April but has not

received anything for hay

This was resolved"

• telephone call by Chief SAS to WAVE on 2 May:

MRE to continue receiving this fund.

€ •

AHBINDY/1 also indicated a need for funds

to pay the rent of the office used by the MR.

(Idem phone call on 2 May.)

1.

AmIDDY/I stated that he had heen asked

by WAVE to furnish personnel for infiltration into

Cuba:

He. stated that he is ready and able to do

so and all he needs to know is how many and when.

He did

ask, however,

that these men not be asked

to give up

their nembership in the MRR and become

"solely agents."

When asked if he had experiences

of this type of handling in the past, AXBIDDY/1

stated that there had been cases when members of

his organization had been told to gorget their

IRR membership, that now "they were working for

KUBARK. "

Chief SAS said that this problem could

be resolved and added that he foresaw that under

certain circumstances .our Miami office could help

ANBIDDY/1 to

*Independent,Put his people into Cuba for the

operations, especially in case of

North Coast ops.

AKBIDDY/1 advised he was presently training

воше

of his personnel in intelligence and counter-

Intelligence work.

He wondered if it would be

possible to have KUBARK assist the BRAC officer

he is using to do this. Chief SAS told him that

KUBARK would be willing to assist, but that our

training requirements were exceedingly heavy and

it would be difficult to say when this could be

done.

At this point Chief SAS stated that he

would from time to time send experts to assist

AMBIDDY /1 but that these men would not be part of

the permanent. group

supporting and advising AKBIDDY/1.

2. The meeting ended with assurances on the part of AMBIDDY/1

that he was willing to go all out. to

work with KUBARK; that. the

MRR: had the longest list of martyrs in the Cuban cause; that 1t

hild been Mis

organization that had put in the greatest number

Su...

---

## Page 6

1 arms into Cuba during the Bay of Pigs Invasion and finally

that the MRR and AMBIDDY/l could be counted upon.

Chief, SAS

assured AMBIDDY/1 of his high esteen of AMBIDDY/1 and his

organization, of which he had heard and read much. Chief, SAS

met with ANBIDDY/1 as Don Archer.

03

Distribution:

1 - AC/SAS

1 - SAS/SO/AR - Chrono

1 - Sabject File (with extra copies)

MO

1810

---

