# 104-10101-10216

## Page 1

104-10101-10216

154

pion Tray.

Mana i8:

paus it

1C

wt

ROUTIN

89436

P33A D

SHAN EAST - AFRICA BRIEF

(NOFOZY IN SLANTS. RIAINING INFO

1. ADEN: BRITIS AUTLORITIRS IN ANEN ARE INVESTIGATINO THE

POSSISILITY TEAT THE BOBBING INCIDENT WHICH TOOK PLACE AT ADEN:

AICPORT ON IQ DEC WAS PART OF AN ORGANIZED COISPIRACY. THE BRITIS!

JAVE ROUNDRD UP A NUMBER OF LEADERS OF THE PEOPLE'S SOCIALIST PARTY,

AN ARAB NATIONALIST ORGANIZATION, AND HAYE DUFORTED OVER 100

VENINIS FROM ADET IN THE MALT OF TUE SACICETT, STI BRITISA APPAREITLY

ARB FEAR UL THAT THE YANENI REPUELICANS, ABSISTED BY TES LYPILAY,

ARE PLANNINO TO SCUNT A SABOTAGE CAMPAIGN IN ADIN.

2. CYPRUS: //TOP GREEE OFFICIALS HAVE TOLD THE CYPRIOT FOREIGN

HIVIBTER THAT GRIER ARRED FORCES WOULD BE CONMITTED QUICKLY AGAISSY

ANY TUBKION MILITAPY INTEPIENTION ARISIN OUT OF TH CÓNSTITUTIONAL

CRISTA IN CYPRDO. SINT AN ARBITATER COULO FUETIER EXBOLDEN CAPRUS:

DIPSIDETT MARARTOS ATI UNDERCOT CUMPENT PRIIISH EEFONIS NO POSTIR

dated

• 0#

GAVIN ®

SECRET

16:80

1605 2M

---

## Page 2

7144%

15+1S 7Z M0

T1300- 0949

ESPOR

226 2.24

Moti dont

10NO =

TO

1:0

sn4.01+.en0 8342€

-PACH 10

SEDOTIATIONS, A TURKISH FORBION MIRETET ORTICTAN BAID THAT, AL

TROUGE ANSARi RECOGNISES HEARIOS IS IRATILE COUNTRE TO COSOTTTUTIOIA

KEVISEAS, TURKEY, TOO, IS DEEPLY CONTR

AND CARPANS TO "GO THE

LIMIT IN SUPPORT OF TAB TURKIEN CYARIOT COMA

S. 172ZT: /HUDATEVED PEPRCTICHS FRON THE SOCIALISS (ISI)

AND CHRISTIAN DIYOCRATIC PARTIES ARE UNLIKKLY TO DIPEAT PREMIER HORO

IN THE PARLIALENTARY VOTE OF DONF IONHER NEXT WEEK, BUT THEY HAY

RAISE EERIOUS DOUETS ÁOUE THE VIABILITT OF THE COALITION. PECENT

KEPTWING SOCIALIST AGITATION FOR MORE INPLUENEIAL POSTS WITHIN TER

PARTY'S ELERARCITY TAO APPARITO: UNSUCCRESPUR AND SOME PSI DIE SADE

MAY RIBE EXPULSION EY VOTING AGAINST THE COVERYBRI. OVER THE ING

RUN, THE KEY FACTOR MAY BE THE ATTITUDE OF CHRISTIAN DEMOCANTIC

RIGHT-HINGIEE WHOSE DEFECTION HOULD LIESEN NORO'S MANEUVERASILIrY.li

(COMP)

END OF TESSAJE

4i S0204

LiES CHIE

frisin

Compy th

S1 tem

---

