# 104-10073-10101

## Page 1

104-10073-10101

1549-4917995

DISPATCH

CLABRIPICATION

SECRET

19t

"PiC

X

PROCESSINO

ACTION

HO RODENIS AINUINED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTINS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDONING

ABSTRACT

MICROF HAI

AER

Ch408 01 Station, INVAVE

OPERATIONAL TYPIC/AFAUNA

Debriefing of ANYAINA- 14

Action Required: For Your Information

Following are the results of the debriefing of AUTAUNA-14 in

the JMWAVE area from 22 November to 2 December 1963.

AMPAUNA-14 did not leave her apartment all day Sunday, e Oct.

?-October, she went to work as usual.

When she arrived,

she

found a letter waiting for her which had been forwarded to her office

Isoa hor accommodation address; it was in ANTAUNA-l's handwriting and

contained nothing of any interest, so she was sure there was a secret

w1ting message on 1t.

At 1255 hours two men arrived at the office, one about 45 years

old and short, who from his appearance might have been a bug driver,

• very young dark-skinned man.

They walked dato the

office vestihule and told

the guard that they wanted to see AMFAUNA.14.

two men followed right behind.

They told AMFAUNA-14 that she

come with them to identify an

arrested person,

AMFAUNA-14 said that

she sould have to ask her supervisor for permiasion to leave, because

it was not yet closing time.

She turned to go back into the office,

and the two men followed her in.

The supervisor told her that it

AMFAUNA-14's father and uncle,

both of whom work in the same office, asked whether they could come

with her.

The men said no, because

she would be coming right back;

they suld they were taking her to "G-?" headquarters in La Vibora.

FOUCH

NO FIE

Continued®

TROLATION

• SH

Distribution:

Ortg & 2 - Chief, SAB

Background 0 or

Do Not Reploduce A

INDEX-X

19-6-58/3

CS COPY

DATE TYPED

(CROM RETURNCE TO

9 Dec 1963

DISPATCH AYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA- 12894

LATERS FILE MUMBER

19-6-50/3

RETURN TO CIA

BECR

E

¿estassification

# 09748

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1401

• 4.

AMTAUNÁ-14 tried to dispose of the letter she had juet re-

colved IrOn ANTAUNA-I by leaving it on the desk of a fellow employee

torother with mome potatoes and a carrot for cover, but the men would

not let her.

She did, however, manage to destroy a page from her note-

book containing telephone numbers.

At the dsE headquartere in Villa Mariatas, AMFAUNA 14 wa

turned over to a militiawoman who had her atrip and pertormed a body

wearch on her.

She was fingerprinted and photographed and her biographic

data vore taken down, after which she was locked in a cell which had

an adjoining private

bath. Nothing else of importance happened for

the rent of the day.

During her four-day

detention period

AMFAUNA-14 was handled

c. 11. < - 1301

FERGENT

BERNEATEN

7s2.901-3168) Francisco

PABAD: AMFAUNA-14 believes that this te his

roal name.

He aid not introduce himsell, but she saw the name on her

release papers which he signed.

He was born about 1918 and ig about

5'4" tall, weighe about 160 pounds, and has a fat build, aguiline nose,

greenith eyes, dark skin, grey-brown wavy hair, rough laborer's hands,

nad two teeth

missing from the lower jaw.

He smokes both cigars and

Bigarettes,

his manner was soft and kindly,

and AMTAUNA-14 believes

he 1u probably poorly educated.

He 1a married, but AMPAUNA-14 did not

learn whether he has children or what his address in. He wears civilia

Plothes and drives a black 1956 Pontiac with a grey roof. Diacussing

indu man later in the AMCOG household, AHFAUNA-14 was told by Pedro

ARRILIA Who 1ea brother of Juste CARRIO) that Pedro knows ABAD.

lacording to Pedro,

I ABAD Is part Jewish and an old Communist who worked

be tha lay index round on behalf of Fidel CASTRO during the Batista

Pedro CARRILLO thinks that ABAD may now have some regrets

about the course he has taken.

"Carlos" aka "Samue]": AMFAUNA-14 does not know his true

was born about 194% or perhaps a little earlier.

about s'8" tall, weighe about 150 pounds, and has & muscular build,

drooping eyelids, light olive skin, wavy chestnut hair with a widow

is & nervous pacer, and

walks with his head bent forward and

tilted lightly to one side.

An expression which he frequently used

was "O.K." pronounced "OKAH" with the accent on the firet syllable.

He told ANTAUNA-14 that he had been a student in the Commercial School

of Havana, that he had worked clandestinely under the Batista regime,

had been arrested by Col, Esteban VENTURA Novo, had been released due

to the influence

of his father, and had gotten out.of the country with

the ald of the Mexican Ambassador to Cuba, coming then to the United

He drives a 1959 black and white Chevrolet Corvair, weare

civilian clothes,

and carries a piotol, sometimes a 45 and sometimes

• •38. ANTAUNA-14 belleves him to be a 100% communist..

She thinks he

amy have been sonewhat better trained than Franciaco ABAD and may have

been somewhat superior in rank, although thie was never clearly evident

There sooned to be a little professional Jealousy between the two men.

If she told one man something which she had been unable to remember

for the other, the second would show signe of Jealousy or resentment.

"Carlos" subsequently told AHPAUNA-14 to phone 81-4319 and ask for

"Samuel" when she wanted to reach him. She phoned him at this number

about ton times in all.

The phone was always answered by the same

wasn, except for, once

when a boy answered and then called for his

nother to come and take the phone.

ANFAUNA-14 would ask for "Januel"

and the woman would Invariably reply that he was not there.

ANTAUNA»

I would then ank the woman to take a message for him to please call

"Doloren."

The woman would always reply "Yes, Comrade."

Discussing

that he thought "carloe"

The physical deferitton Carlos" does not

match that of banuel RODILES Plana.

Telephone number 61-45191e

„Itated 1n the 1962 Havana telephone directory to one Maria Antonia

*CARCANO ArAUJO, JArtOS 17, CABADLARGE, HAYAng.

WAVE traces on this

SEX-ICITICCIA

PHONE CONTACT FIN

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Paulat 1 bouR-18009"

nano inolude HCBA-09898 of 23 April 1083 showing. that one Maria CARCANO

Arujo (born 7 Doomber 1935) travelled to Chile In March and April 1063

on a diptonatio passport.

An ANOT report of 27 September 1902 mentions

one Antonia CANCANO ArBUjO al a comuniut in charge of vigilanco, and

Jiving at 4T Artes &t.

There algo appoara to be a Marin

ARADO (born about 100%) who 1a an old-time Communiut l1ving at Artes

47• ATPAUNA-1 has been given the names of several former remidents of

thie noighborhood in hopes of finding. relative of the CArCANO or

ARAUJO families whone physical description matchen that of "Carlos."

Alau has aloo interviewed CoL. VENTUL In the WAVE ares. VENTURA

ronenbers onse sintiar to that of

"Carlon" but does not remomber the

He says that he mooms to remumber that the boy's father

wan connected with one Jose LOPEZ Villaboy (on whom WAVE has numerous

tracen) and

L:

This man appeared a few times during ANFAUNA

1'e interrogation.

The never heard his name at this time, but lator

aw hin on television Interrogating AMSIGi? and he waa 1dent1110

then a Jose Antonio! FERNANDEZ Menert.

Bhe does. not belleve that this

Lm bim true name, beoduse It la her under-tanding that DiE officere use

aliases in their public appearances.

He 1n about 5'11" tall, lendor,

with darkinh skin and blnck hair combed atraight back.. He has very

lare goon cold eyes.

Re was born about 1938 and appears to be un-

muonted, with a cynical and vulgar manner. He wears civilian clothes.

At about 2800 or 1700 houra on Tuseday, A October, ANTANASA

was brought into MAD's office for her firet Intervlow.

ABAD begin

by amking if mhe know why she was there.

AMFAUNA-14 replied that she

mad no idea.

ABAD obnerved that that was atrange, because he had

Judged her to bo an able and intelligont woman c-2a divEd foaez5e

O. ABAD onld that 1t| was not.

He then atta her 1f whe knel Shiyea

Lado Braullo VILLAR Negret.

AMPAUNA-14 aald that she did not.

unid that this was strango,

because VILLAR Negret know her.

1I who Ihow one Angel *BRINGAS, AMFAUNA-14 said that she did. ABAD

Baked My nare knew Brigas

A fertile factoy nea cave 106 a la anys

10.

ANPAUNA-14 said that she knew the nan as Lute NEGrIyand had

not recognined the name VILLAR Negret.

ABAD told AMTAUNA-14 that NEGRET wag then under detaw lorr

had taplloated ANTAUNA-14 in his confession. ABAD wanted to know what

APATI 14'" connection with NEGRET had been. AMPAUNA-14 sald that

MaaT had been in her house once, and once in her mother's.

13. At this point In the interrogation, ABAD was called away and

ANVAUNA-14 "na returned to bor coll, Two hours later the Interrogation

was resumed.

LS. ABAD picked up where he had loft off

and asked AMFAUNA: 14

vant consection she had had with Ancel aRINeAS.

ANTAUNA-14 unid that

he had known BRINGAS no better than whe had known NEGRIT.

ABAD said

that the man lyine and urged that she cooperate.

ANTAUNA-14 promined

that whe would cooperate.

ABAD said that NEGRIT had told the Del that

AYAUNA 14 had had sexual relations with BRINGAS, and ANTAUNA-14 denled

the allegation.

14g The Interrogation was again interrupted, and AMPAUNA-14 was

retugued to ber coll.

he faw that ABAD had an envelope containing what be recognized to be

panors taken fros her apartment, Including airline passenger mantiests,

dec.pherins terial, instructions for unior the dociphorior matorial,

and insurance policien and personal papers belonging to AMPAUNA-1.

ANYAUNA-14 now realized that it was time for her to pretend to

TON ISS VERSIEVIOUREDITION.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

cooperato with the Dis, as ANTAUNA-I had briosed her to do in such a

rituation.

15. ABAD bogan by telling her that whe was in a very serfous

•tuation,

becaune he know that she had had very close connections

with a KUMARK agent. ABAD asked whether AMTAUNA-1 wan Identical with

"Jull0."

AMPAUNA-14 mald that AMTAUNA-1 had been known an "Jullo."

AND thon wanted to know whether NaGRET had been working with "Jullo."

ANTADA-14 denied this.

ABAD asked whether NEGRIT had known "Jullo."

AA-l denied this too,

but volunteered the information that "Jullo

had provided NORIT "ith mall

fa01l1tles, and that AMPAUNA-14 had been

the outout between them.

Did NEGRET know uf "Jullo'g" existlace, ABAD

wanted to know.

mant mil and money which she had gotten from

MAURA-14 sadd that horand not gullo the had brought

• and had plokec

mal up fron hin and delivered it to "Julin," but that NEGRIT had

never known "Jullo'"" identity.

10, The truth about AHPAUNA-14's relations with NEGRET and BRINGAS

coording to her tatements to her KUBARK case officer in November 1063

$a the JINAVE ares, 18 a8 follows:

(a) In about mid-196%, ANCOG DEKed ALTAUNA to serve ae

cutout between herself and an unidentified agent, and ANFAUNA -14

widewalk in front of a textile factory

a Spaniard named

This agont Introduced

hornell to him no an employee of an unidentified embassy.

purposes, "H1 Negro" fave her the telephone number 29-4900 or a0-4900.

(b) Later,

when AHFAUNA-14 began to truat "El Negro" more,

who cave hin the telephone number of her mother.

She learned that

ME1 MagnolA" trUe nAme wAR Tila RrAlliO VILLAR Negrat, and that he

lived in a mall room in the rear of the textile factory.

The telephone

number which he had given her was

=no she learned to be "Maximina."

(o) VILLAR Negret was born about 1928, and was about 5'11"

tall with broad shoulders and a strong build. He had black wavy hatr,

brown eyss, an olive skin, and a face marked by sene. AMPAUNA-14

never learned anything about his fanlly directly from him, but DSE

parents lived on a farm in Pinar del Rio Province.

(d) VILLAR Negret was a member of hi Accol Revolucionaria

Democratica, which ANTAUNA-14 understands to be a successor organiration

to the AMl of Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango, He had formerly belonged to

a notion component of this organization, but more recently had de

#voted Minself to Intelligence collection.

meruction and money from AlcOG?

and picked up him intertirene

At teen The 1to an individual identified only aB

The last contact which AlFAunAl had had with

I1 logro was in aid September 1963 when he passed hor a report which

In Colombia.

AVANAGIS

Once when

met wIth ANAUNA 14.

On various other subsequent occasions

BRINGAS Filled in

for "I Neero."

MA.INFE. ON SIOU. PROVIDED BY 201-332675

(1)

o1 Nesto" intead of shoot him, but they told her that it was not

vorth the trouble because "1 Negro" was a permon of low morale who ..

GLAGGIPIGATION

PAGE NO.

IO UAE FRIVIOUA EDITION.

SECRET

CONTINUED

DEB

---

## Page 5

14-00000

be shown to Angel BRINGAS when and dI de do caught.

(e) On 18 or 19 October 1083, after AHFAUNA-14 had been re-

lened,

whe was telephoned at her place of employment by Angel BRINGAS:

who told her guardodly that "Il Negro" had been arrented and said that

he would like to mend a lennle cousin of his to talk to AMPAUNA-14. A

meeting as arranged in

(the ANCOGS) could help him get into asylum. ANPAUNA-14 unid that whe

"Qladys" told AMTAUNA-l4 that, in case 1t wore pomaible

to do anything for BRINGAS, he should telephone "Gladys" with an

It wan understood that a meeting would take place at

1000 hours on the same day of the telephune call at the Ten Cent Btore

AMPAUNA-14 does not remember

Cindys? telephone number which was left with her mother.

In spite of what AMPAUNA-11 told the DSE, AMPAUNA-1 had

and nothing to do with NEGRET.

AHPAUNA-14 had told thin story to pro-

tect Arcod 2.

NEGRET had known that ANCOs was Involved, and had once

had a meeting with her in her home,

Nevertheless, AMFAUNA-14 briefed

ANCOd-S on the cover story which she had told the Dig and told her that,

In came the vere ever arrested and questioned, she should admit having

talked to NEGRET in her home, but deny having

been Involved in the

communications channel or knowing anything about 1t.

Station Comment: Luis Braulio VILLAR Negret appeara to be

Identical

WIth Luis "NEGLE Villar (born 4 November 1930 in Consolacion

del Bur,

Pinar del Rio), who 1a carded as ACSI source No. 492 and

appears in AMBUD correspondence as National Coordinator of the Accion

Revolucionarin Democratica.

"El Quajiro Bermudez" appears to be 1den-

honl with Gerardo Jose «QUESADA Vasquez (201-292032) (born 9 May 1919,

Pinar del R10), President and founder of Accion Revolucionaria Democratio

IN MOST CONTEC "O.

on Angel BRINGAS.

has no traces on him.

There is no listing under 70-5570. However,

#79, In Rampa.)

261-372625

ABAD appeared to be particularly interested in how NEGRET and

"Jullo" obtained their funds, and kept returning to thie subject during

the Interrogation,

ABAD then addressed himself to the contents of the envelope

and a suitcase found in AMFAUNA-14'e apartment.

He commented that all

and asked how

thoy happened to be there.

son, together with AMFAUNA-3, had been hiding for a few days in her

mpartment becaune their usual hiding place had become unavailable.

18..

ABAD wanted to know how and when ANPAUNA-14 had I1rat met

ADAINA 1.

AITAUNA-14 replled that he had met ANFAUNA-1 1n about

February 1062,

that AMTAUNA-1 had regularly parked his car in a lot near

her office and that they had meen each other on the treet frequently,

that AVAUNA, had finally apoken to her, and that a friendahip had

doveloped which finally turned into a love affair.

(Comment: This was

" Ile told to conceal the fact that it had been ANCUTLiD who had 1n-

troduced them.)

she said that ANFAUNA-1 had been her lover until about

That AN AU T

July 1008 when she broke up with him because he was too busy with .

clandestine work to pay the proper amount.of attention to her.

80.

AND amked what part AMPAUNA-14 had played in AMPAUNA-1'8

clandestine setivities.

ANTAUNA 14 replied that ANTAUNA-1 would some

times tolophone her late at night to invite her to go out for a ride,

and whe would then find that ANFAUNA-1 was going out to have agent

nooting and wanted her along for cover.

ABAD asked whom ANFAUNA-1 had

boss meting. ANFAUNA-14 mentioned a person known as "Gustavo" and

100008

CLASS PIGATION

0-09

VEE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

SHOR

.:.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DU PATCH

Bo: 89250746 08688

•SECRET..

UFOA-12804

eave the physloal demoription of AMPAUNA-?4, whom he knew to be mately

out of Cuba.

(She never knew AMFAUNA-24' true name.) She nino mentioned

Manolo *VILLAMANAN,

the true name of ANPAUNA-13 (whom she: had known

only an ANAUNA-l'" buminess partner but when the thought she could

afely mention now that he was out of Cuba.)

For good mensure she added

• notional name and phyloal description.

#1. Referring back to AMPAUNA-l'e sutomobile, ABAD asked what

kind of a car he had driven.

ANFAUNA-14 replied

that it was & GrAy

Chevrolet Impald.

She repeated that AlTAUNA 1 had formerly parked 1t

nons her office,

but said that she had not men it recently.

ABAD commented that the DSE had observed ANPAUNA-1 in his

mutomobile in the Havana dock area on 1 January 1963, having a meeting

with another person.

(AMTAUNA"14 recalls that this other person was

al, and that he and AntuArd had rendezvoumed in the dock area

«Iter an attempt to pick up ANTAUNA-l's radio.

With reference to the KUBARK agent known ae "Jullo", whom

gone to turope, but he sald he did not know whether "Jullo" had gone

clandestinely or legally.

34. AMPAUNA-14 was naked about AlTAUNA-l's submourcos in other

rovinces, but she mald she knew nothing about them.

ABAD said he vas

mure that ANYAUNAl had a good enorre on the tula ne pinar.

ABAD also mentioned the name of a person who had

been shot about two weeks previously and who he belleved had been work-

1ng with ANTAUNA-1. (AMPAUNA-14 does not remember the name of thie

85. ABAD asked 11 AMPAUNA-l'e son had helped him in thin clande?

AMPAUNA-14 replled that the son had been with AMPAUNA-1

trogently, but that she thought it was only because he was helping

AMPAUNA-I with hia business and that the von probably had had nothing

to do with clandentine work.

38. ABAD again turned to the envelope of papers found in AMPAUNA 14m

apartment, and nald he could see she was not cooperating with him.

Bbe

was not volunteering information, he said, but waiting to be amked

questions.

ABAD unid he was sure that there was much that AMFAUNA-14

could toll him spontaneously, and he intimated that there might be a

noo for her to rehabilitate hersell.

37.

ABAD asked her where the passenger liute came from. AMFAUNA-14

mplled that thoy had been loft in her apartment by AXPAUNA-1, who

intended to Intruct her Inter by SW what to do with them.

that ATAUNA-I had trained her in thie systen, and had loft ber blo

unterials, no that he could use her an a stop-gap communication link

Mallo ho uns tryine to roorganize his not.

SITESUANET 5501584644

ABAD told her that this was plainly nor true, becaume some of

Ilste vere dated later than ANPAUNA-1' departure date.

He said he

T! w true, according to AlTAUNA-14.

ANCUTLER? and

had brought the passenter manitosts to ANFAUNA-14'" boume at about 1630

or 1700 hours on 5 October, and had stayed about fifteen minutes.

AT

ANTAUNA-14 bad had a meeting with AlTAUNA-S",

1600 mourn that ease dil initiated by AlPAUNA-je by neare of a telophora

tho firut in two weeks,

call to ANPAUNA-I's nother who wis serving an cutout between them.

ANPAINA-30 had called the meeting to ask whether the had received any

Instructions Iron ANYAUNA-1 as to how to, act in case of an luteral

uprining, which a number of people in Cuba seemed to be expecting about

that the an a racult of the dost ruitti, cRuded by Hurricano ploreNo.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

¡the Dei intertogatore nevor at any timo montioned AMPÁUNA-39, or nkod

her about this enrlier meetidg, so AlIPAUNA-14 concludes that she had not

boen under intenaive survelllance that day; either ANCUTLER? had been

under surveillance on 1 Ootober, or she hermell had been under mome kind

o1 periodio apot chook.)

ARAD Asked AFAUNA-1& now she had become acquainted with

ARCUYLER-3, and AMPAUNA-14 replied that she had met ANCUTLER-3 through

ATPAUNA-15, the wife of a coumin of AlrAUNA la Who in a primoner on the

1mle of Pines.

so.

ABAD then asked ANFAUNA-14 where her SW materials were, which

surprised ANPAUNA-14 because she had thought, they had been found

during

nor houre search and were part of the incriminuting envelope which ABAD

we holding.

ANPAUNA-14 told ABAD where to look for the materiale, and

no mont somebody to get them.

31. ABAD wanted to know how AMFAUNA-* and AHPAUNA-3 had gotten out

of Cuba.

ANFAUNA-14 anid she did not know.

She said the understood they

wore to sot their instruction on the street once they had left her apart

ABAD abruptly asked ANPAUNA-14 whother she knew anybody In

ANTAUNA-14 said she did not.

ABAD then produced a photograph

Of AMPAUNA 14 together with AMFAUNA-1 and AMUKE>? and told her that she

hnd boon 1n AlteS 2'e home in Luyano with AMFAUNA-] on Saturday, Y September

He mied ANAUNA 14 whother AMVER-2 were employed in an embassy,

ANFAUNA.

It said the did not know but that she thought so.

She said she knew

•Ara to be a personal friend of AMTAUNA-l, and thought that he might

occionally have helped AMFAUNA-1 with his mail.

(It was true that

APATHA-14 had gone to ANtER-l's house on ? September with AMPAUNA-1.

Inter the mane day AMPAUNA-1, took her to Miramar to introduce her to

•51a.∞e.

iMiGhai lu AHTAURA-33,

ANPATHA-lA concluded that they had not observed this meeting, and that

Boptember and not herself or

THrOre It Ad Doen AGES TAUNA- been under survelllance on ?

She also concluded that the DSE

had boon Inefficient in not transferring their surveillance to herself:

and ANPAURA-1. )

33.

ABAD again changed the subject suddenly,

"Where is the radio?"

have 1t?"

AMPAUNA-14 said she did not know::

nything about a radto.

"Could AMR!" "where 1s the camera?" asked ABAD. AMPAUNA-14

mmitted having soon AMYAUNA-1 with a Minox camera, but said she did not

Inow wint AHPAUNA-1 had done with 1t.

She said she had hoped that

APATHA-I would leave it with her, and pretended to be hurt that he had

not done so. ABAD asked her whether she had ever seen one like it in

the ACOG house, and AMPAUNA-14 said that she had. Throughout the

Interrogation, ABAD kept reverting to the subject of the camera and the

radlo.

34.

Iantly.

ABAD asked ANPAUNA-Id what her connection was with the ANCOG

the replied that her grandmother was the cousin of ANCOG 3's

ABAD Bald that the whole family had been under observation for

which AlCOG? had worked with during the Batiata era. That,

he wanted to know, was ANCOG-3 doing.

AMPAUNA-14 said that she did not

think he was doing anything clandestine.

ABAD replied that the dal w

positive that ANCOG 3 was doing secret work.

ANTAUNA-14 maid that tho

Delymhould not delude 1telf,

that the entire family was too sel?ish to

engage in inything of the kind.

ABAD anked what the diplomatic viaitors to the ANCOG household

talt about.

NPAUNA-14 said that they never talk politica

ABAD saked

mbout the attitude of"the Doctor" (ANCOG 3° uncle), and AMFAUNA-14 Ba1

that ho was waiting for the situation to settle.

"What about ANPAUNA-3?" asked ABAD, "Did she dork with

AHFAUNA-I?"

ANPAUNA-14 unid that she did not,

but that she somotinese

ve him informntion. ABAD wanted to know whether ANYAUNA-3 had been.

orsier vith some onerin florida. ANTAUNA-14 answered that AFAUNA-3

„GLACIPiCATION

BEGRET

7/11

---

## Page 8

14-00000

DONE A BASIS A ANNAO MA

DISPATCH

BECRET.

.. | • UTGA-12804

had been Involved somehow with her siater who lives in Plorida.

ABAD

anised whether ANPAUNA-14 had been a good friend of AMPAUNA-3,

and she

maid that she had been. ABAD arked whether AMTAUNA-14 had ever heard

ANTAUNA? speak about the Secambray insurgents.

AMFAUNA-14 maid that

she had not.

ABAD asked whether AMPAUNA 3 had had contacte with any

embassy people, for example the Spanish Embarsy, AMFAUNA-14 aald that

who did not know of any such contacts.

97.

"How about

ANCUTLIR-2?" asked ABAD.

"We know that she apends

= lot of time thore."

ANFAUNA-1% Bald she did not know.

30. ABAD asked AMTAUNA-14 11 she were a revolutionary. AMFAUNA-14

said that she was not, but that neither was

the againet the revolution.

3ho said that she had

joined the militia early in the revolution; but

had nood dropped out because there were some thinge about the revolution

which she did not understand.

For instance, she could not underetand

why thore should be so many shortages and rationing, whereas before the

rovolution there had been plenty.

ABAD explained that the shortages

the remult of the imperialist blockade of Cuba. AMPAUNA-14 guid that

the could understand thie, but that it did not explain why there should

be a shortare of coffee when Cuba grew its own:

was in short supply because Cuba was sending coffee to the soviet union

In gratitude for Soviet assistance in overcoming shortages caused by the

Imperialint blockade.

AMYAUNA-14 replied that this was very logical

now that it had been explained to her, and said she wondered why the

revolutionary government did not publicly any so in order to put an end

to public tumbling on the subject.

30.

Early in the morning of 9 October,

ABAD produced the letter

which ANPAUNA: 14 received from AMFAUNA-1 on 7 October and held up the

lotter to the light, examining it carefully for traces of SW. AMPAUNA-

i redate preme an are a tradinenta

she vas unable to get a good look at.

All were very surprised and

dinappointed when no secret writing appeared. They kept making her 1f

she were sure she was doing it right, and began intimating that she was

deceiving them.

(Station Comment: It is indeed surprising that no

nocret writing appeared, because this letter was almost undoubtedly the

one containing 3 message no. 1 to ANFAUNA-14.)

ALPAUNA-14 also explained the use of her carbons. The only

accommodation address she gave away was AMPAUNA-1'& JMWAVE area post

She deliberately protected the

none of AMPAN-2), not knowing whether this wie a fell of a fictitiou

"Carlos" and ABAD now invited ANFAUNA-14 to work with them. She

poplled that she might be willing to do so, but first wanted to know

what work would be expected of her.

for inatance, she said, she would

not inform on people in her office.

They told her that this would not

be aerodd her, because that sort of work to done by the Defense

Conmittee. her work, they said, would be much more important, namely

maintaining a link between themselves and KUBARK.

She said that would

bo all' right, but she was afraid that it would not last long because

WAnt would probably put her on ice as soon as they learned that she

had been arrested. They told her not to worry about that.

42.: "Carlos" and ABAD suggested to her that AMPAUNA-I had briefed

her to agree to cooperate with them.

She denied this, claiming that she

had not really wanted to work with ANTAUNA-1 at all, but had merely lot

horself be imposed on for old times sako.

They asked whether they

could trust her.

She sald the thought so, and asked whether she could

trunt then to keep their promises.

They assured her that she could,

and wald she would be relensed the following day.

43. In the morning of 10 October, after being told that she was

be roleined, ANPAUNA-14 was moved to a smaller coll without a bath.

went for ABAD and complained that he had double-crossed her.

He told

ODUCTI

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CURATOR BYMUOL AND RUNET

CONTINUATION OI

DEBATCH *

SECRET

UTGA- 12894

hor that he was foing to keep his word and releame her, but that her

original cell was noeded for some new prisoners who were expected.

unid that the Dal had received advance word that a boatload of refugees

were poing to try to leave Cuba that night.

mod one of there was prognant, so he wanted the larger cell with bath

ABAD alway trented AMPAUNA-14 kindly and considerately.

when she had a hendache, he ordered aspirin for her.

Hersaw to 1t that

the received soft drinks when she wanted them, and he seemed to be

honestly distressed whenever she weft.

AKT'AUNA-14 believes that it had

been the Dig's intention from the very beginning to recruit her, be-

cause she doubts that all DSB prisoners are treated

as well.

45.

The firet SW message which AMFAUNA-14 wrote while under DSE

control was dated 10 October, the day of her release.

The Dot officere

shod her what her control signal was, and she replied that it was a

pubrio, but also included her true control signal.

She deliberately

numbored her firet controlled SW message no. ?, to conceal the fact

that she had already written several messages

containing intelligence

roporte.

under control. She was

46. In all she wrote three sw messagre of which was mailed and the

obliged to write each one in duplicate,

other given to the DSE for study. One day "Carlos" came to her very

angrily, asid he doubted that her carbons were anything more than

ordinary paper because he had been unable to develop anything that she

40d 14:05, 5-1 th-cats-08 box +1th -car552.

AnYAUNa-14 tore hin

that she did not know anything about it,

but that if by chance he had

tried to develop the letters she had written with the pilla

he had

taken fros her, it would not work.

This surprised "Carlos," and

APTAUNA-14 explained that there were two different SW systems, one for

outgoing mall and the other for incoming.

"Carlos" then asked her 1f

there were any significance

to the size

of envelope used, or to the way:

the letter paper was folded.

AMFAUNA.14 said she did not think so.

AMPAUNA-14 feels that "Carlos" and ABAD never completely believed that

she had an SW system,

because none of the letters which she received

discloned Ew when developed, and none of the letters which she wrote

showed any traces of 8W when held up to glancing light.

47.

"Carlog" was the DSE officer who maintained contact with

ANPAUNA-14 after ber release.

For two or three weeks he saw her every

day at her apartment, sometimes for only twenty minutes, and sometimes

staying for several hours, frequently late at night.

Occasionally he

called her at her office.

Finally AMFAUNA-14 told him that she had to

get up only in the morning to go to work, and naked him to viait her

early in the evening, which he agreed to do.

time of the 1n-

tercepted ANGLOSSY landing in Pinar del R10,

"Carlos" did not visit

"AAUNAle for five days.

When he finally returned, he was dirty,

sweaty and tired.

He dictated an SW letter he wanted AMFAUNA-14 to

mond to subar, and while she was writing it he fell asleep.

48. ANFAUNA-14 had to prepare written reports for him, which she

migned. with the preudonym

"Dolores."

He told her never to call him at

DS cendquarters, because he was never there.

Once he brought her a

book on are to read, and promised to take her someday to visit a

collective farm in Pinar del Rio Province.

10. Despite his occasional efforts to get her to pick up the threads

AMPAUNA net, ANPAUNA-14 believes that the primary target she was

Intended to work against was the ANCOG household. From remarke made by

both ABAD and "Carlos", she deduced that they already had an informer

In the house, but that they were not satisfied with his production.

Toward the end of her period of Dst -controlled activity, she felt

the DSE was becoming relatively less interested in AM

A And 18

net, and more in the ANCOG household.

30. They asked her about one Vicente LAGO,

whọ 18

guest

at the nicot house and who seems to be particularly interesting to them.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DIPATCH

AULUVENOU

SECRET

.2894

01953%

+1281-292532

the AlCOOs.

thoy wore vory interented in him, and amked whether she could arrange

lavitations to lilg house. Other

tioned an visitors to the ANCOr

shie-alan Italian dielonat),

To vile of the Dutch

Amhammados)

sosrotary 08 Elo United Arab Republio

Embansy "ahd

me or n tore

Japanese Ambasrador.

Fortunately, during the four week foblowing

TAJA-14'a reloame fron Ds oustody, no diplomata vinited the a coo

bouger. Cared For le

Re

Malts Is 2c1-294718 house hold

With the knowledge and encouragement of the DBI, APAUNA-14

vinited the ANCOd house nearly every day.

Her first vialt took place

it noon on ll October and whe stayed until about 1800 hours, during

He liatened

and took

few notes,

but kept mont of the story in his memory.

and onined AMYAUNA-l4, told her to follow DSt instructions to the lotter

and assured her that KUBARK would send her instructions.

189.

ANFAUNA-14'e immediate preoccupations were ANCUTLER-a and

AKra (whom she knew to be blown to the DSE as RUBARK agents),

ANPAUNA-39 (who was not yet identified but had her telephone number and

night oall her at any moment with damaging resulte to himself), and

the possible arrival of SW messages from KUBARK naming other agent

personnel.

B9. On 11 October, the day after her release, AMPAUNA-14 ment a

warning bor that she had been arrested. She also asked ANCOG? to send

a paralag to 1? sitt

de: sogluel w/261-247045 pertaina

On 13 ог

O TARRILL where she net Wandal TOSCHINI whom she asked merely to warn

taring the vrning seriously.

By this time, however, ANPAUNA-14 was

mure that alue knew that something was wrong, becaume he had tole-

phoned ANYAUNA-I's mother naking for

"Boledady and had been told that afrul

"Bolodad" was unknown,

(Regarding Albertina O'YARRILL'S knowledge of ju F

thone developments,

AMPAUNA-14 believes that she probably knew nothing-

ANFAUNA-30•

She dialled 20-0192) and told the woman who anavered "Please

tell innolo that Soledad calledgoand that he should not telephone me

bocause I n going to be out of Havana and w111 call him when I return'

ARPAUNA-14 la not sure now whether ANCOG-3, whom she conmulted on the

Best way. to do this, had noted the telephone number.

ent cuba A cuba

whose warname 104

INCOOs, who sent a meninge tol

via ANCOG 3'1 cmuffeur

tolling hin to stay away from herpoor waking him to felephone her

occastonally.

n 20 Cetober when the arrived home from work MnAUNA-14

found "Carlon" waiting downstaire for her. Trying to divert his atten-

tion fron the mall box, the invited him to come right in, but he maked

her why she did not open ber mall box first.

She did no and found two

letter® IrOn AHTAUNA-1, dated 19 and 2B September.

volled roferences to names like "Carmina" (AMCUTLER-2).

They both contained

"Idgardo,"

Introduce her to "Edgardo"

and the other intimated that l

Jad something for her.

"Carlos" ordered her to develop these letters,

and she did so.

no secret writing appeared, which did not surprise AMPAUNA-14 because

lotters themselves contained instruction for her, but it did

---

## Page 11

14-00000

70

surprise "Carlos" who again began to accuse AMTAUNA-14 of double-

crossing him.

ANFAUNA-14 explained the absence of Sw by saying that

KUBARK": probably testing its communications channels and waiting

for things to quiet down before sending messages.

"CarIon" then told AMPAUNA-14 to But in touch with Mws)a

and not the package which he was holding for her.

She telephoned

O|AWER& fron her office and nald she wanted to see him. o/AMS)? agreed

to a meeting

but stipulated that it be aiter 1700 hours and in his

ANYAUNA-14 reported this conversation to "Carlog" who told

proceed with the meeting.

0160. ANUTE? took ANFAUNA-14 into a small room, where she quickly

enplained the situation (she felt she should not spend much time in

1-2'a office because she was afraid the Dis had her under surveil

ince; this was confirmed laterQwhen "Carlos" asked her casually how

much time she had spent in AMEn?'s offlot, apparently trying to

told her to take care of herself.

the DIX had wanted her to meet with him was to pick up a package which

they belloved he was holding for her. o AMiE,? replied that he was no

longer in a position to receive or send packages, because the diplomat

with whon he had

"Carion" lao told AMTAUNA-14 to contact ANCUTLER-? to arrange

the Introduction to "Edgardo. "'

AMPAUNA-14 telephoned AMCUTLER-2'g

number, expecting to be told

that ANCUTLER-? was not there, and was

very surprised when ANCUTLER-2 herself came to the telephone. AMFAUNA-

14 told ANCUTLER-& that she wanted to see her, but AMCUTLER-? said she

had " bad case of asthur and could not see anybody, AMFAUNA-14 re-

so at to Carlos a sat other not footred or

and not understood the warning message sent to her, so she sent

BeTTER? two more oral messages via AMFAUNA-15 and one via Lolita

explicitly advising her to hide or take asylum.

"Carlos" continued to press AMFAUNA-14 to see AHCUTLER-2, and

ANCUTIED showed no signs of heeding ANFAUNA-14's warnings.

ANFAUNA- 14

therefore mont one more message, this time a written one, via Lolita

Wrooso saying that she really must see AMCUTLER-2 in the latter",

some for the purpose of coordinating cover stories.

ANCUTLER-& then

paid a visit to the home of Lolita

the message that she

greed to the meeting.

B4. On 3 November, with the knowledge of "Carlos," AMFAUNA-14 went

tO ANCUTLER-a'E house.

"Carlog" briefed her to obtain an introductior

Denoyo.

Bt'cups A cube

not a clone friend of CUTIERREZ Menoyo.

She safd to add that she was

very snary with ANCUTLER-1 and thinking of divorcing him.

101-337664 and 201-33

66• AMYAUNA»14 and ANCUTLER? devised the following cover stories

for the protection of the source of the airline, passenger manifesta

(ANTAUNA-18, whom ANTAUNA-14 does not know) and of "Edgardo" (AMPAUNA-

#, whom ANPAUNA-14 does not know):

(a) Before leaving Cuba, AMPAUNA-1 had asked AMCUTLER-3 to

might come addressed to

look out for his nother' setty, "Daas on to AHPAUNA-14 anything that

One day, a colored woman called at

ANCUTIN- 2's coffee shop on Calle San Rafael with a package addressed

to "Bettg". The colfee shop employees had thought that the package was

intendod for an employee whose name is "Ketti" and had given it to her,

but he said twas not hers, and there matters rested until one day

when ANCUitER & visited the coffee shop and was told about the incident.

Who told ber onployees that the knew who the package was intended for,

mutant down s1th her.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

(b) ANCUTLER-2 had received a.letter from AMFAUNA-1 dated 18

tober paring that ane would receive a vibit irom & person known to he

who would introduce himself as "Edgardo"

and asking her to introduc

"Edgardo" to AMPAUNA-14.

This person has not yet arrived, and ANCUTLER-

3 does not know who he 1s.

87• AMCUTLER-? agreed to stick to these stories in case she 1a

interrogated, and to brief "Ketti" to support the

coffee shop story.

She also told AMFAUNA-14 she had decided to go into hiding immediately.

AMTAUNA-14 asked her not to do it so soon after her visit,

but ANCUTLER-

3 maid that AMPAUNA-14 should provide her with cover by telling the DSE

that. AMCUTLER-2 had spoken of taking a holida: at Varadero.

68. Making her report to "Carlos" aftor this meeting, AMFAUNA-14

told these cover stories as though they had just been revealed to her.

by AMCUTLER-?.

A fourth letter arrived from AMFAUNA-1, consisting of two

pages of overt text.

AMFAUNA-14 was sure that it contained SW because

of the banalities in the cover lotter.

Before turning it over to

"Carlos" she took it to AMCOG 3 who had somebody make a literal copy

of 1t and then destroyed the original. AHFAUNA-14 turned the copy over

to "Carlos" who had her develop it, and was again disappointed and angry

when no Sw showed up.

(Station comment: this letter had contained SW

number groups for OWVL reception.

On or about 10 November 1963, AMFAUNA-14 prepared a written

for the DSE on the visitors to

the AMCOG household. Thie report

was actually dictated by AMCOG-3 to AMFAUNA-14 who took it down on the

typawriter.

She then made a handwritten copy of the report to turn in

to the DSE, keeping the typewritten copy for self-briefing.

She brought

the typermitter cop; out with. her.

T0110H1-8 101114060% +50n01e+156:

very well.

are old friends of the family, and that the doctor took a trip to Mexico

W1th AsCOG-3'e uncle after the, letter'a election

3r, Pedro #CARRILLO and his wife Margot: He 18 a brother oli

I Justo *CARRILLO and his been a Triend of the family for a long time.

They sympathize with the Revolution in some aspects, but their daughter

(who I think is engaged to the son of AMCOG-2) left Cuba for exile, and

thie caused them to change.

I do not know why their daughter had to:

take asylum.

who has the nickname "Petite.

'Dr.) Oscar PINA and his wife Margarita: Within the family

Until very recently he

was neutral, but now it seems

Cases In a very bad mood because i belleve he has the work of eight

• She does not sympathize much with the Revolution.

They have no

childfen, but almost all of her family is abroad which I think 18 her

principal reason for being discontented.

301-291232

Sre. Nenita de FACARAMES: She 1e the wire of/inu CARAMES,

the former Chiel of Police di Havana.

She has a daughter by him whom

she brings to lunch every Sunday, and she 1e also caring for a son of

CARANES who is insane and

in an asylum.

I do not believe that at the

moment she le on good terms with her husband who is abroad, and there-

fore she is neither against nor in favor.

Actually I believe she 18

afrald that the situation will change and her husband will return.

HelL

Sr. Fernando FisTEFFANI:

n elderly gentleman who is th

father of an Intinate iriend of AHCOG-2, who

ut of pity has given hi

standing invitation for every Sunday:

To be sure, the poor fellow

la rather tiresome.

B-073308

WOE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLABBIPICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO,

12

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Elsa EDIAZ Blart: Her family has been friendly with the

"firings

ANCOG inmily Tor many years.

They wore achool friends.

The has a

sister abrond and a brother who de in priorn.

Her father and mother

seldom come to the house.

A sister of herr

1e a doctor of some farm.

All she does 1e obtain medicines for the pisoners, thereby causing

• lot of trouble for ANCOQ-a, ANCOG-3 and the old man, l sir duiiy

Joaquin SANCHEZ and his wife Sara: According to what

have heard, he 10

a travelling salesman for some

• laboratory. His wife

In the sister of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and

AMCCG-3 (s1c).

I have also heard that she is always trying to get

medicine. for her son who, from what I have heard, is abnormal.

Iatber and mother when she was

took her in as an adopted daughter.

The old man paid for her education.

She is like a daughter to him,

and like a sister to the nephew and niece.

She works in the emergency hospital.

She is not openly opposed to the

refine, but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives

no 201

has sreatly affected her. i canala said it:

-11471

Vicentel*LAGO and his wife Maria Julia: His brother

Roberto LAGO,

1c Dry died some years Ago, was Pola's first husband. They

bave two cons abroad. From what I have heard, he devotes himself ex

cluslyoly to his profession, and it is she who is most upset by the

meparation from her children.

J.

Mercedes #VALDES Chacon: A case very similar to that of

STEPPANI,

except that the is a woman who is a very good friend of th

ANCOG-Z's husband, and fin the same situation with her relatives

abroad.

She

1g Just one more of the many refugees in search of warmth

and friendship, with no friends left in Cuba.

m22

Jul1o/SBRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all hia family

le abroad.

Ho is another

case of warmth and friondship,

he uses the

swimming pool a lot,

he 1e alone, I have even seen him cutting trees

with ANCOG 3, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoons he

plays chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything

bad about anybody, not even about the situation, the only thing - as 1s

natural - he muses his daughters and his wifo.fuslu.c

Rague 1 CASAGRAN: The widow of the Director of Culture ir

the crau.

Government,

military aldo

to both

Jesus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was

Grau and

Pr10.

She 1s very highly regarded by

the family.

I have never heard her express herself in any way againgt..

the Government; I would call hor neutral.

-$201

Auntie" Gilt to 143

ahe conen

01g8/ECRECENTEE

Former wife of Jose Maria. de la Arulleras

to the house with her two daughters and hermother who lea

cousin of Bra. Paulina.

ANCOG-2 helped her a lot. in hiding her hüsband

during the Batista tyranny®

I have also heard that AMCOG3 helped her

with her divorce.

Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revolution,

(KA 1aFNonge.

dit A61.08

Hida Frio: cousinos

3C243446

mandorturo who is a close friend of

husband of Polita.

case of family warmth, bocnuse after all hor tamily had left she came

$o the house in search of friendship. She has wanted to leave Cuba:

any times

but was never able to.

This 1s her principal obsession:

k and

what of her mother as well.

She has been coming

to the house a lot

1 for

not three yeare, and has become a very good

frlend of the

reality it was her cousin who wis a better friend

---

## Page 14

14-00000

adon come to the house

Bnd.a brother who 1e in primon,

Her father and mother

A sister of hers

1s a doctor of some. farm.

All he "does l obtiin medicines for the prisoners, thereby causing

• lot of trouble for AMCOG-2, AMCOG-3 and the old man. l de 294718

Lave heard,

In the slater of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and

ANCOG-3 (sic).

I have also heard that she

1a always trying to get

medioine for her son who, from what I have heard, 1e abnormal.

M. Or, Marla Dolores AsANCHEZ Pessino: She lost both her

father and mother when she was thirten years old, and the ANCOG family

took her in as an adopted daughter.

paid for her education.

She is like a dughter to him, and ilke a sister to the nephew and niece.

She worke in the emergency hospital.

She is not openly opposed to the

but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives

(Dr. Vicente l#LAGO and his wife Maria Julia: His brother

Roberto LAGO,

Who died some years ago,

was Pola's first husband. They

have

two song abroad.. From what I have heard, he devotes himself ex-

separation from her children.

Mercedes FaVALDES Chacon: A case very similar to that of

STEPFANI, except that she

1g & woman who is a very good fElond of ta

ANCOG 2's husband, and te in the same situation with her relatives

abroad.

one more

of the many refugees in search of warmth

and friendship, with no Iriends

left in Cuba.

Ju110 BRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all hie family

1e abroad.

He is another

case of warmth

and friondship,

he uses the

he 18 alone, I have even seen him cutting trees

almalog pool a topical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoons ho

with Acoss

playa chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything

bad about anybody, not even

about the situation, the only thing - as

natural - he miases his daughters and his wife lü trilalt

Raque 1 CASAGRAN: The widow of the Director of Culture in

the drau Government, LOBus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was

mIlitary aide to both Grau and

Prio. She is very highly regarded by

the family.

never heard her express herself in any way against

the Government; I would call her neutral.

Olga / CRECENTE:

Former wife of JoBe Maria de la Agullera

she comes

house with her two daughters and hermother who is a

cousin of Bra. Paulina. AMCOG-Z helped her a lot in hiding her husband

during the Batista tyranny.

I have also heard that AMCOG-3 helped her

with her divorce. Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revolution,

though & believe that it is out of spite againet her husband.

sotber a nane is Leopoldina SANCHEZ Vda. de Crecente, and her nickname

-2424•16

Hilda FLO: Cousinof

Armandorato who is a close friend of

i Pranks PAlZ and of SOBer QUERO the husband of Polita.

She 18 another

because after all her family had left she came

but was hover able to.

This ts her principal obsession

She has been coming to the house a lot

or the past three years, and has become a very good friend of thi

though in reality it was her cousin who was a better irien

housesctiefii2.1-3ilsi

Rosendo #BACIO and Sra. Leopoldina

ANUNEZ: This couple has

two children who are really hers from her first marriage, Manolito and

He has a Cleaning shop in Havana, and I know that she has

KNOWN POlA WAll LOT MARY YOUrS bASAURiOShO WaS

her guitar torobat no.

0m 19a

8.80

USE PREVIOUE POITION.

40$

SECHET

.13

CONTINUED

CTIONg

---

## Page 15

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRETA

UFGA-12894

before abe married J. ÁGUERO. Politically apeaking, she follows the

Grau line.

She is more or less neutral, and devotes

herself to her

teaching work. He devotes himself exclusively to his. work..

pred

p. . Manuel #COMPANIONI and his wife Alicia: They have been

acquaintances of micors and Alcoss for many years, although it was

not

• cloe friendship,

rather & friendship of montmartre, Tropicans, etc.

A daughter of theirs le abroad.

He too was a very good friend of Armando

To who used to be a friend of the family, and now in the course of time

they have become closer friends of the family.

In other words it is

another case of friendship caused by being handoned by others.

He has

a small deodorant factory in the same house where they live.

They both

have their mothere here.

Jack eCoNNILL and his wife Marina:

His mother has been a

very good

friend of the lamily for many years,

and she was a school

friend of the two nieces of the old man.

couple have

always been

friende of the family, the more so now

that so many of their friends

have left Cuba.

71. AMPAUNA-14 turned this report over to "Carlos" on 11 or 12

November.

At this meeting he asked her to try to make contact with

AMFAUNA-3'& brother who he said had been transferred to a hospital in

difficult.

LAS VIllAS, AMPAUNA-14 said she would try""CarIos."

This was the last time she saw

again on 16 November to ask what was new, and this was their last

tolephone contact.

2221:

73.

When ANFAUNA-14 arrived at AMCOG-3's house at about 2000 hours

on 15 November 1963 for the regular Friday night supper, he took her

aside and said he wanted to speak to her privately later.

At about

3330 hours she went to his room.

There he told her that he had received

orders that she was to leave Cuba the following week.

He said that

preciso instructions were to come on 16 and 17 November, so he made

lunch date with her for Sunday noon at his house.

73.

AkFAUNA-l& was frightened by this.

She did not sleep well

Friday or Saturday nights, and spent Saturday in her home.

74.

Bunday alternoon in AMCOG-3's house, AMCOG-3 told her that she

was to

leave the following day.

She said that she did not want to.

ANCOQ responded that this was an order.

He said that the DsE would

probably arrest her again soon, and for her own safety and that of others

she must leave.

He added that there were others who were to leave too,

whose departure had been made conditional upon her own.

ANFAUNA-14 asked whether ANCUTLER? were one of these other

who were to leave too, and AMCOG-3 replied that she was. AMFAUNA-

14 told him that she thought

AMCUTLER-2 would not agree to leave.

maid that he thought she would because the orders had been couched in

very strong terms.

He then showed her the instructions, both for herself and for

He had her type her instructions on a pioce of paper, and

then menorize them.

77. Then ANCOG 3 gave AMFAUNA-14 the following verbal messages to

deliver when she reached JMWAVE:

(a) A colonel {nu LANDETRA, a tank expert who had been in the

Cuban Army under GRAU and PRIO, 15 a prisoner on a farm in Havana

vince. He is given three days

off per week to go home.

in advance when he will be coming out.

ANCOG-3 does not know the wife;

but bas indirect contact to her.

AMCOG-3 says the man is honest and

intelligent and

* real soldier, and 1l we want him out AMCOG-3 can

arrange

.1t.

(b) As of about 1800 hours on 17 November,

a young

man who had

infiltrated Into Cuba and had been hiding at the home of Israel

CLASsIFICATION

PAGE NO:

---

## Page 16

14-00000

DIPATCH

UFUA-18094

bad been moved to a new hiding place.

AMCOG-3 was considering trying

o help the young man into anylum in the Uruguayan ambassy through

entair Wooin' whose Identity i not known to AMTAUNA-14 but who wh

thinks 1a

06 Uruguayan attache.

(c) AMCOQ-3 In out of one-time pade and neede a resupply.

It to very posalble that AMCUU-3 may be able to obtain

and forward a copy of AMFAUNA. 14 DSE dosaler.

78.

On Monday morning, 18 Novemlor, AMTAUNA-14 dreased aa she had

been Instructed, and stufted a pair of slacke and sneakers into the

traw bandbag which she had been told to curry.

At 1300 hours she left

her office and proceeded on foot to the coiner of Atares and Arango in

Reparto Luyano, arriving there at 1400 hours. Here she exceeded her

Instructions,

waiting for ANCUTLER-2 not five minutes but fifteen. She

then walked very slowly toward Calzada Luyano, hoping that AVCUTLER-2

might overtake har.

Thie consumed another ten minutes, and by the time

mhe reached the Calzada Luvano It was too late for her to walk the re

maindor of the distance, so she took a taxi.

79, AMTAUNA-14 discharged the taxi one block before theParque de

In Virgen del Camino and walked the rest of the way.

She went to the

shrine whore she prayed for a few minutes, and then

sat on a bench

from which she could see the whole park.

80.

At 1510 hours & 1954 Buick taxi arrived at the park.

The

driver stayed in the car, and two men - a colored

man and a

fair-halred

man - got out and walked around for about ten minutes.

Finally they

approached her and gave the challenge, to which she gave the correct

response.

One of the men then said simply "Follow me".

They took her

back to

the taxi and put her in the back seat with one

of the men, the

other two riding in front.

81. • They headed out of the city.

When the reached the Carretera

de Varadero, one of the men asked her politely if she would mind keeping

her eyes directed down toward the floor and not look out the window.

Bhe rode this way for about two hours.

By then it was dark, and she was

told she could look up again.

She took advantage of the opportunity to

change into her slacke and sneakere.

82.

Finally the car stopped, and she and her two escorts got out.

They walked a long time.

At one point, whistle signals were exchanged

with sopeone in the darkness, and two other men appeared, one of whom

AMFAUNA-14 and

AlE? greeted each other politely; but

pretendedonot to know each other. o

They did a lot more walking and Joined up with another man, who

turned out to be the radio man.

He had a lot of equipment with him,

and AMPAUNA-14 and AMUEE+2 helped to carry 1t.

84.

They now reached the mangrove and began to walk through water.

At one point their guide became briefly lost,

but found his way again

almost immediately.

when they came to the open water, one of the guide.

rent forward and signalled.

The boat came in in response to the sinal.

MIPAUNA-14 PAMWEE-2, and the radio man walked out into knee deep water

and climbed into the boat, which already had a crew of two.

85.

The boat proceeded out to an unidentified key. The crew con

conled it in the mangrove, cloverly lacing and tying branches together

over it to forma camouflage cover. There they went to sleep.

86.

The following day, 19 November, was spent at this spot.

'A

radio message was received during the day. At night the boat put out

for Cayo Megano.

The waves were enormous, and. AMFAUNA-14 was terribly

monsick. The boat remained at the rendezvous point until 1045 hours,

with ArAUNA l4 pleading for the crew to return to land, saying she

would rather be shot than remain so seasick.

Finally the crew did put

back, saying that the ship probably would not come because the sea was

---

## Page 17

14-00000

DEPATCH

BEC RET

UFOA -1789.4

87.

Wednesday,

20 November,

was spent on the same key.

A very

Jong radio message

was received during the day.

AMFAUNA-14 and 'AWER

both helped the radio man to decipher it, and their combined efforts

took about three hourg.

Then they put out again for the Cayo Mogano

rendervous point.

By

this time their drinking water was all gone.

The boat was overloaded, no much of the food and equipment was 1oft

behind on the key.

Again no ship appeared.

This time,

inatead of

returning to their original hiding place, the crow took the boat to

Cayo Mosquito.

Here they apent the reminder of tho night, and all ef Thursday

ä1 November.

Thoir water was gone, there tin very little food left,

and there was only enough gasoline

left for one more one-way trip

out to the rendezvous point.

At 1400 hours on 21 November another

With the combined efforts of the radio

AMPAUNA-14 and ANtab-s/ It took between two and three hours tr

decipher 1t.

Everybody was very optimistic; they were all sure that

would be picked up that night.

Promptly at 2300 hours

the ship was seen approaching.

boat put out immediately,

and its passengers were taken aboard the ship

AMFAUNA-14 was taken into the sick bay where she was iiven a pill, a

little water, md somewhat later some warm broth.

90.

From the moment she stepped into the boat on 18 November, until

she was hauled out by the armpite on 21 November, AMFAUNA-14 never left

the boat.

Her side and legs

wives againat the boat. A little blood vessel in her right eye was

broken by a twig snapping in her face as she walked through the man-

Brove. This was treated by the ship's doctor.

01. AMFAUNA-14 anys that the AMHICK team performed very well. The

pickup in the park was. done excellently. The slight delay while they

looked her over, she says, was due to the fact that the men had ex-

pected another woman to be with her, and they were waiting a few minutes

In case the other woman should show up. The AMHICK. team sald that they

and almo boen briefed that she would be wearing her hair in a bun.

She had not been briefed accordingly, and she was wearing her hair

down her back in & pony tail.

This discrepancy did not cause any con

fumion, because every other item of the visual recognition signals

tallied perioctly, and the AMHICK team were well briefed on all of them.

ANFAUNA-14 was impressed by the precise timing of the team'g

movements, by the fact that everybody was whare he was supposed to be

at the time indicated.

She expressed admiration for their seamanship,

and their ability to pick out one spot of mangrove from another 1n

the pitch darkness.

93. She says that, during these trying days, the team members were

always in calm control of the situation, and never falling in their

courtesy to her.

Regarding AMCUTLER-2, AMFAUNA-14 1s sure that the exfiltration

Instructions reached her.

They were taken, she said, by Lolita FORMOSO

who had been standing by for them from Friday to Sunday.

What Lollta

did with then, ANPAUNA-14 does not know.

She knows that we had

muggested that Lolita take them to AMFAUNA-1's mother, but she alac

know that we had indicated to AMCOG-3 that AMFAUNA-1's mother might

be under surveillance, so she thinke lolita might have taken them

directly to AlCUTLER-?.

In any case, she knows that messages sent

proviously by ANCOG 3 to ANCUTLER-? reached the latter, and she sees

no renson to assume that these instructions did not.

95. It does not surprise AMPAUNA-14 that AMCUTLER-2 did not follow

the orders.

sidoration

ANCUTLER-?, she says, plays her own game with little con-

for othere.

Between the time that AMFAUNA-1 left Cuba or

#11. Boptember,

and the tine that AMFAUNA-14 was arrested on

ANCUTIR% had visited ANTAUNA-14's apartment twice.. On both occasions.

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CONTINUATION OR

DISPATCH

ELAUNINEATION

SECRETS

BAYEN SYNDOR AND NODES

UFGA- 12894

AMPAUNA-14 had asked her to remove the suitcase that AFAUNA-I had left

but on both occasiona

ANCUTLER-2 had found some excuse not to

When AMPAUNA-14 visited ANCUTLER-2 in her home in. Guanabacon

on 3 November for the purpose of coordinating their cover stories,

ANCUTLER-A did not seen very interested in coordinating stories or

anything else.

AMFAUNA-14 believes that AMCUTLER-2 may be working for

do foened tone the Second Front of the Escambray,

because hor

who was a collector for this organization.

possibly keeping ANCUTLER-2 in Cuba, AMFAUN!-14 says that AMCUTLER-2'S

mother in sick with cancer, and there may to something wrong between

AMCUTLER-1 and AMCUTLER2.

ANFAUNA-14 also had her reasons for not wanting to leave Cuba.

Bonides the dangers of the trip, she would he leaving her mother and

father in i dangerous position, because the DSE had forced her to

mign a contension implicating them.

While she appears to be trying not

to be overly critical of AMCUTLER-2, she has commented that AMCUTLER-2

knows far more members of the AMFAUNA net than she herself does, ec

that the reasons requiring the exfiltration of AMFAUNA-14 should be

even more compelling for AMCUTLER-2.

End of Dispatch

MATiC'

V/V

---

