# 104-10192-10084

## Page 1

104-10192-10084

ONE TO CIA

Seckground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

14-30 vo

943, 7, 6.33

PRECTOR

JMWAVE

Асти SAS: 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INSECRET

ROUTING

31:423

MISKOFILT

JiN: 61954

DOC. NICHO: 34

S0O 6, CA 2, CO/PEG,

"CA/PROP;

ClIc

AD/NC, VR, RI/AN.

000

012

R

P

SECRET. D30000Z

DIR INFO CARA CITE WAVE 8413

DEC 3 003202 63

TOC: DID -3/6581127

IN 71952

SUPDATA

FROM CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS AND LAUREANO

BATISTA FALLA. PLEASE PROTECT

RID: INDEX, FILED BONDEZ

REPORT CLASS:. CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM COUNTRY: CUBA/ VENEZUELA

R

SUBJ: 1, PERMISSION FOR THE MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTINA (MDC)

TO ESTABLISH A CUBAN EXILE BASE IN VENEZUELA

2. INVOLVEMENT OF FORMER CUBAN PRESIDENT CARLOS PRIQ SOCARRAS WITH

Y

THE MDC

DOI: NOV 63 PADA: ÜNITED STATES, MIAMI (2 DEC 63).

(UFG 4169

SOURCE: A DOMINICAN POLITICIAN (F) WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY TO THE

UNITED STATES.

ROUTING THI

IW COMMENTS

NO DISSEMINAT& iN THE aTTACHED

TD PORTION OF INS CABLE HAS BEEN

RID/AN

IDA

MARE OUTSIDE ME AGENCY PENDIN

FEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

0

RID/NTS

KIp/ES

RID/FI

Ines

PRECEDENCE

C

0

PRIORITY

RELEASING IWO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

BARELIONE

DESTROY.

LIAISON:

2-300 - 10

8.33 1389 6.r9164:

SECRET

BACLUOID.FHOM AUTOMATIC

DECLARTIFICATIE

REPRODUCTIONOR OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITECY

Copy No.

193!

218K

---

## Page 2

GOA MINFORMATION REPORT VEGRAM

0:316

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

plational Be

Bone this

a 986 M

CU

ATION A DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBACT

R

REPORT NO. TDCS

DATE DISTR.

PRECEDENCI

"REFERENCES

IN 71952

FIELD REPORT NO

v*:t a UNEVALUATED INFORM

#OURC

R

Y

1. ON 14 NOVEMBER 1963 FORMER CUBAN PRESIDENT CARLOS PRIO

SOCARRAS SAID THAT PRESIDENT ROMULO BETANCOURT RECENTLY. PROMISED

THAT VENEZUELA WOULD PROVIDE THE MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANA (MOG,:

CHRISTIAN DEMOCRAT MOVEMENT) WITH A BASE OF OPERATIONS FOR USE AGAINST

CUBA, ACCORDING TO PRIO, BETANCOURT PROMISED TO MAKE THE BASE

AVAILABLE TO THE CUBANS IN DECEMBER AND HAS APPOINTED VENEZUELAN REAR

ADMIRAL LOPEZ CONDE AS THE LIAISION OFFICER IN CHARGE OF ALL

NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE MOC.

2. ALTHOUGH THE EXACT LOCATION OF THE BASE HAS NOT YET BEEN

DETERMINED PRIO SAID IT WILL PROBABLY BE ESTABLISHED ON Á VENEZUELAN

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GAOLAS I

ONE ANY ACHO MANY!

BECORE SA MIC

410

USIA OCA.

RECRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

R

0

R

P

DRA: 1KZES ONAPLETE PRIVIOUS EDMORA COPY

RI COPY

(19-10)5

---

## Page 3

DATION CONTROLS

• 71952

TOSS

AVAL SASE. PRIO ALSO SAID THAT GETANCOURT HAD PROMISED TO PROVIDE:

THE EXILE BASE WITH VENEZUELAN PERSONNEL AND SUPPLIES

20/- 240002

3 ACCORDING TO LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA, SECRETARY. OF. MO

2cl-10357

MILITARY AFFAIRS WHO HAS BEEN MEETING WITH/PRIOLIN CONNECTION

WITH. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BASE IN VENEZUELA, THE MOC HAS $15.000

AID PLANS TO PURCHASE TWO SAILING VESSELS SETWEEN 68 AND 90 FEET

LONG AND SIX OR SEVEN SMALL OUTBOARD MOTOR BOATS WHICH WILL BE

LAUNCHED FROM THE SAILING VESSELS IN RAIDS AGAINST CUBA.

1. THE MOC ALSO PLANS TO ACQUIRE A B-25 AIRCRAFT AND BOMBS

FOR USE IN AIR STRIKE AGAINST THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT. BAT ISTA

FALLA SAID THAT PRIO HAD PROMISED TO GIVE THE MDC FUNDS TO BE

USED TO PURCHASE BOATS AND PLANES AS ARE NECESSARY TO EFFECTIVELY

CARRY OUT ITS PLANS, AFTER THE MOC HAS EXHAUSTED ITS OWN RESOURCES.

5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVKEYWEST, MIAMI REPS

STATE FBI USE CUSTOMS AND LENS.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEM NATION CONTROLS

CONFIDELTIAL

---

