# 104-10425-10004

## Page 1

11041042510004)

SECRET

20 August 1985

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of General Counsel

Attention: E. Page Moffett

Assistant General Counsel

INFORMATION

:

VIA

Chief, Information and Privacy Division

Attention

03

03

DU InTormatIon Review Officer (U)

FROM

SUBJECT

: Russell B. Holmes

Consultant, IMS/FPLG . (OUO)

: Document relating to ZRRIFLE (U)

REFERENCES : A. Memorandum to James H. Lesar,

dated 15 March 1985.

Enclosure:

First CIA Release to Lesar,

F81-0351 (I) (U)

B .

Memorandum, dated 22 July 1985,

from E.

Page Moffett.

The writer of the memorandum (see reference B) states in

paragraph 2 that Lesar called the former's attention to a

document listed in three places in the enclosure to reference

4 as nos. 38, 39, and 55.

Lesar claimed that much more of

this document had been released previously to (Robert L.l

Borosage.

2. The document in question, handwritten, undated,

and with

the title "Project ZRRIFLE" had been released previously in

sanitized form as. JFK Exhibit F-522 in Volume IV (pages 197-

203) of the HSCA Final Report (1979). The sanitization of the

03471, conformed

when this sanitization was made (in late 1978 or early 1979)

that the ZRRIFLE document was one of several

documents (81 to be exact) that were the subject of a litiga-

tion involving Robert L. Borosage and the Agency. (U)

To confirm the validity

of Lesar's claim, the undersigned

reviewed the Robert L. Borosage Case No. F75-0676.

The Agency's

file did indeed contain a copy of the 9-page ZRRIFLE document

(number 42). The undersigned then reviewed the computer run

describing the contents of the Borosage case file.

for document no. 42 gives no date and no subject.

SECRET

OFFICIAL USE ONLY - When

Separated from Attachments

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

the document only as a manuscript.

Inasmuch as the document had

been inadequately

identified in the computer system, it did not

turn up in response to a querry to the computer for any previous

releases of the ZRRIFLE document. (U)

4. The undersigned compared the "Borosage release" with the

document sanitized for the HSCA.

There is a great deal of dif-

not all of it to the Agency's advantage.

The sanitization

of the "Borosage

release" was done

manner, e.g., on

page 6 of the document as released to Borosage the cryptonyms

Sid Gottlieb and Horton Telford.

were lett in the release to the HSCA.

page 198 of volume IV of the HSCA Final Report. Jim A's name

appears on page 202 of the same volume. (OUO)

The undersigned has sanitized a copy of the ZRRIFLE document

as it was released to Robert. L. Borosage and has included any

information released to the HSCA that was deleted in the Borosage

release. The attached ZRRIFLE document may be passed to Lesar.

Russell B. Holmes

Consultant

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Profict ZRRiFLE

PROMIRE SO

REPRODUCTION

1. Identification PROMPTED

I spot, fuelop,

spent was for

pot operatione, Apents will be spited in were eness,

i mishing the United Sites, but at prote for operatines

reity rescous will probably not be ried in thei

counties of perilence: Precent delmental actiot, is

bering conducted in the WE and EE ess, but it

is unticipate that this will be enticed Is atter dimens.

anar. The profict will be spented againt the want.

_ sitatlaione and percomed...

2. Flyestive: The stistice of ties post is the promenas.

Ine secondauce with

live tire resus mento ane

it to frequent resis, no biting is torete unis.

Le valid for the dim if the printi specific

opstants The protect will his conducti h

mite assistance fu area Quiesis and eterne

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

3. Eastgund: Du regise to the inculcing regiments

In the openetimes! percinement of.

in 1960 began. the spotting t

DO

02638

---

## Page 4

13-00000

ABSTED

-perial reginemento from.

leçaue_mare.refiiclaut.in

many respecto nore rucitice: Because most statino ane

_not equipped to conduct this tippe of aperition and hercur

of the disiralility. if completely centralized control over this

cutie effort, it was determined that

heet conduct the astity. The fist spoting actinis

Leas now aluauced far enough to fustify secussing fra

the

REPRODICTION

PROMIDITED

-__4 Operational arcelo

contrait as a priciped agent, with the primay tele of

spatting agent canditetes.. Ofun wee firet contested in

in escuectione nette

an illegel restics erotion into the United Hate. Fer

a pind of a yes, and a hit bees contite? in ?

in ishalf of thee

Burn of Morestice Hile of this Burean settest

an usellent perface be Pain du At 196

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

43

---

## Page 5

13-00000

PA OBITES

Africe an

REPRODUCTION

Tract o PROHIBITED

$7,200

R fui + otter agento 7 agent concilated: 2, 000

Nees for cervices by and

standles, of agents and

agent candidates :

3,000

- Travel of staff employees t

en, sed in Zorifle actly :

2,500

Mise a rabelances, automobiles

1, 000

$ 14,200

Pay for arents on coupletion of ishe?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 6

13-00000

PROMIBITED

belite, ..

proferiel, prove openticialle competent, ruthere, solite,

CE experieneed.

I sue offeere (feur issilable), alle to conduct patet

NEI NODUCTION

bow?); no approd, to itts bout espucies.

--...--.

in this focal pano rusudato. Di office, chie!!

.a...

caliber auly ; no mestrictions on travel; porcilite,

of ine-man duere (Aurope) antes! hace with?

from stest to fivish.

riciclo of foreigu--

gout - REPRODUCTION

g. i1se it

the secch...

-citta

6

?

of

---

## Page 7

13-00000

PROMUBITED

peize de foreiguers.

i Pretent: Date arch, tete Bo

_4. Electricit

ready toge, if tel

a Dia Guerican cities or necilents on

people who ever of tamed tis, vica

.. ......

I ho chen REPRODUCTION, pret

1. Exclude openizat, billela, thars...

-_ as exinineals....

5. Grier: planning shell richude provisions for.

Alloming teaser Ged in care of bilour....

ect tate promines incentiali me following tietie,

8. The nobod who has never licit if erniel, otheris

mill bust lee aware pitell or citer. fortre such

in frechen to tinue, wanted listo, ete

documents the i forget bask dated, Shoulf Westlise

_ACE file:

10 mill Me REPRODUCTION

i dilverthore... PROMBITED

Keeping if files.

FARS

---

## Page 8

13-00000

laes Siropuca

mitition on nuiter. isd.

trise if Leuvicle alpestie

selitions Complete

Ds attirite in this foeck prest meilstory,

Overeas one man

3) Every opentine. to

lie migitty

cae-efficend; no cille-stunt

PÁ'R.

REPI

RODUCTION

Moi-itinitialtit:

-PROMIT

pocilly for apposade to/ foreign elements.

for direct action;.

To crien l

who taintes lep use.

official referer

5) Tir chaine. of

a permetting bleueil

auy actect in hine teivetory...

I) Aussit desion, uf foreign triste mitt ell possibilits.

of rei tangh, REPRODUCTION

hen errent.

PROMBITED

----

3) Planning chsuld incule. pre

souito (or Gache) ne saie if blou

9) Exclué enquet Ginets, ture with recart of.

PACE

Cara

---

## Page 9

13-00000

=

i-

TED

Mafia.

11) Tomer recitance persu

_1.1 Periot of tirte

selecter.

13) 49l abe, peren

REPRODUCTION. CE

espererice..

huntin

14) Silusthone e state me Paris

NUMIDITED

_ 5) What an

l timet on

selected? To "tan" not read to go...

16L7o Deme of starshipa.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

16221

---

## Page 10

13-00000

3 no progent or paperS

ix cast for truin

..zan stat reunite da

prout - REPRODUCTION

9 Disposed PROBBITED dee -

a rouget.

we can spar-

11. Case officining.

comer pile create de from

As an ate nonsen

are titained.

Zavest -

Timentin

---_

REFRODUCTION

PROMBITED

---

## Page 11

13-00000

lefteua

left ww.

left in

left in

Profict ZRRiFLE

PROMIO

REPRODUCTION

Pret ZRRiFLE iC

Ie spst, heuclp,

jet ruth for fimisise DI

prat opesatione, Apeito will le spottsd in svesal ercas,.

nictihing the krited Istetis,, but t poot for opintioms

reuity verous mill probsbly rest he ined in tici

csuntris of pecilence: Precent desipmeta astrnit, is

berig conducted in the WE aud EE eriec, lust it

is nuticipatd that ties wiill beetih? t's atin dinesis.

aneas... The profict wichl he opented aquict thid cring.

saitelizioue and peresmdl....

2. Oljestice: The dgitice of this presnt is te procmeias.

Fend inismuction concernin

suismonci

1* code aná apeer wateriss) ru imdsuce untt _ _

nequinenente lenied m tte Cleneatie tenics, prmend, i,

Ate Piatisiel teunit, apra) hince tiene requisamentes ane

rulijit to froquent rerasice, no leting of tercete eio.

be astit far the dion ef the preri specific

_gjenton mit limautid entie lsis of

- ~et 120

apprtuntts. The prspeit mill li crdii i les Eieia....

I mits acristauce fui area liiccione and etttine ie

meldré.-

REFRODUCTION

PRODBITED

3. Gaciegund:. Lu rerprnce to the increcsing reguininscato.

fer stle aparctimsl perac neneut f Eeres,n conde ind siiin

mestineste, Fiicion Din 1960 legan, tis eppting 1

opint cieito diie decienantel arit.

Irscing. Ihe i ae

?t22?

DO 02638

---

## Page 12

13-00000

left im

left us

Toft.m

tett.w.

SITED

perish requiremento from (NA) lecue more refuel entir

many respects-ruse.rustice._@cause most static.one

_mot equipped to conduct tie type of aparation and laccuse

_of the disinalility of complit, centralial control over this

crutine effort, it was determied that Piuicion D, which is

in cret touch with MCA on proceet regiments, could.

heet conduct the astity. The fit spathing actins

leas now aluanced for cough to pecte,

wanna fram

REDRODIICTION

PRONIDITED

___4_Eperational arreto

() Persuel: BATWiN is under written

contract as a pricipal. apeat, weh the primary tech of

spotting arent candidstes. IF fun wee finet conteted in

Iase finaugh the chief of this

thy]

Ite dief of Station, Lucentio) in conection siste

an illegel nevstic aperatin into th: Unites Heter) For

a print of a year and a helf beer contected in ?

spides, y Is, Icehan in Shelf of the

Busu of Meretics. Pile if this Busa setter

in essent performsuce le

dain. du 10205-125

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

SECHE7

---

## Page 13

13-00000

DENIED

':

MURITE:

S fuin a REPPRODUGTTON

17,200

A furi totes agents 4 agent candidato: 2, 050

Hies for respices by and

standles of agents and

spent candidetes :

- 3,000

Travel of staff employees o...

en, sel in Zorible actinity?

2,500

Mise if rafelous, autsmobiles

_and otie, pertiond expense:

1, 000

$ 14.,,00

Pan for cents on completion of it?.

REPRODUCTION

PROHBITED

SECRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

ivi :

-ü:

FROMBITED

belite,..

poseid, peren opentinelli, competer, rithlece, stable,.

retereo di

REPAODUSTION

..... --

b. With Kbati, one focal jant for contred,

esch, traenig, cace officig, eto - Do cattant,

stiler culy; no mistrictions on tiziel; porcilihte,

DENIED

--

from stert ti erich.

-gauto. REPRODUCTION

chirich of poreigu-

dotti, Riste tinterra who cane

?:.3

---

## Page 15

13-00000

PR HURTE

jazza de foreiguero.

people who ever ab tamed tid, ais,

DENIE

DENIED

1. Exclude opens et titancle, there.

apresant if evests, tesse af mitbilits of purpore

--_ as errineats

e. Haffere nicolved selectisio...

5. Gueri: plannis shoull arctude provision for-

Allaming tor Ged in care of litour....

secrets,

E. jesus of moments escentistine fillaning tientie,

, Mastersil

7. raumar recitine persue a precilitity....

will ust bee aware of pitfell or inciter facts such

a-brechen to traud, wanted list, eto.

-....- ..

diments then forest bitted. thull Last lie

A CE file:

th silver thorse.

Keeping if files,

PROMIBITED

SEGRET

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Kubait

loes tireques rour hugo?).

_trise.

eurele alertes

_selestins Complete

-Evereas one-mau

3) Every operativis to

PÁ'r.

ie migütte

cace-efficend; no cille-ilon

REP

RODUCTION

PROHIBITED

for direct action;

prille. for appussd to faneigu elemente.

uho teintes big use hig auste Americen agency- 1ce of

par a foriquere- and hinted

officed reference

5) hi chaine at

investion

permitting blackwel.

die eine.

PROMIBITED

3) Planig esuld inclute persifein for being

in t aue ensentiel.

230757

PACE

CaDT

Audie:

.02

---

## Page 17

13-00000

Kubado

left

10) Corsicaus.nes.

Mafia.

I chill des

1) Toner vicestine peroni

offer parents, (15...

recillance, eto. for each ...

selester:

I REPRODUCTOR. CE

espererice..

1) Filisthone + stable in Fonis

PROMBITED

5) What i limits on tea or midtech ste

selected? No "tam'" until seck to gos

REPRODUCTION

PROBIBITED

SECRET

---

## Page 18

13-00000

"The magie lutton "

E81s 201 Coner..

Cautión....

Filentractitue

ODUCTION. U-2

p appi krakes... PROBITED.

* left u

strisont tejoind loet record s

---

a carpession i monies. -

FEl. Benepoctor → ictumphois

Lenferal

austating machines" - TE

--

AS - FanfarPROHIBI

Il Selet purper sfer de renar

1a. Flues a corer

FA3E

Cori

---

## Page 19

13-00000

3.

tectisl.....

_1500-- pirom iB.

9 orget REPAO280E0M

me can spot..

11. case officining..

ja, comer pile-create di proin

Ris an alik - nonsen

13- has dangero of 115 counte

action a minter i these

Za Vlest =

Reminder

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

-SECRET

-0993315

11

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

Propict ZRRiFLE

PROMIT

REPRODUCTION

Profet IRRiELE is

te speso, buclop.

-pon operatione. Aquito will be spetted in mesel esess,

mistesung the Kuited Btites, but po for opintime

smity nerous mill probably not le wied in thi

sunis of recitence: Prevent dismetal estinto is

teng condusted in the WE and EF spec, bust it

is naticipati that this will be edil to attor dincis

ancas.. The profict will he spentes arist third coins

sintattime and persouel...

df i code and apher wsteris, in icondauce with -

nequinencente levied on te Contestie temics, primaril

ruti to frequent resin, no litig of trete io

le valit far the dition of the presi specific

pertunite The profit mill le sudice lo, Dici

I mite assistane In ana lisesis and étérie

media..

PROMBITED

C7O2-

DO

02638

---

## Page 21

13-00000

E MOBITES

$7,200

Trault of PROHIBITED

R fucin + otis agento 4 agent cantilutes: 2, 010

Hees for resiss buy and

standly of agents and

- agent candidates!

3,000

Travel of staff employees o

en, sed in Zorifle actinly :

2,500

Fine if rebelsuce, ausmobiles

..and otte, pertined epines!

1, 000

$ 14,200

Pay fir rents on completin of jole?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

---

## Page 22

13-00000

PROMBITED

) Jyal, thiest inste, opersisuch problimes; potical: nou ittabite-

profend, proven opensionally competer, mitter, stable,.

F-experienced of offere (fer ailable), able to conduct patent.

he slull, Unresente

NEI NODUGTUN

b. Within Rubahi, out foes jout for contred,

in this fore part rusuditory.. Di office thren?

--....

cadiles auly ; no nistrictions on tianel; pocciliate,

of one-man overcess (Cope) ants! hace with?

d. To is, pe diaries; mie coe officen

_ from stort to firish.

_gout. REPRODUCTION

alicichi si foreign.

Machel in the rests

4o Ad l, listed 'lutes who care

unities

2. 93

?

---

## Page 23

13-00000

PROUIBITED

fire de forciquers.

4 Electreet to

wellites. Come

ready to go, if stel

a- Dio Aurica cities or recidents or -

people who er at tamed 05, weis

1. Excite opens et tine le, there...

apresand of emerto, there of metebilit, of purpee-

-__ as exivineals...

5. Guer: plains chaull rictude provision for

Salaming to or Geces in see of tlewr..

8. le noted who has never list if since otherwise

will ust he are of pitfells or inciter. factors such

in freelan to traud, canted list, eto.

→ 4. Shach hace pleney 201 in Ki to bachatop tira, ell

druments therein forged t backdateds Hull Lost lie

a CE file:

a. Pill s REPRODITION

is silvertherne.

PROHIBITED

Keeping of files,

SECRET

E:.3

.0.

43

---

## Page 24

13-00000

• Legal, partioned etice more preten

1 Piano security I within Nubar

Himitition on nuter ishi

clerke for lucister

seletion. Complete

in this freit fruit nicinder;

Overvas one man

control bace with unfron taton conser

3) Every openitine, to

lie nigitle,

we-ifficered; no cille-shunt

PA'r.

REP

RODUCTION

pocilly for apposace to foreign elemente..

he criminal

who tainted lep use.

auste Quericen agency- Ice of

Ice officine. who c

pact it firigners- and limited.

officia refere

s) To chive of

ennectin

a permitting blessneel

6) Don't meet auy celete i hone territory....

cuision. us/ foreign

of aerian,

Thenugh

his erafnid..

possibilita,

NEF

RIMINUI

---

PROMIBITED

8) Planning elsuld include prose

fine for timing

suite (en Gris ni sine of blos

92275

3

03

---

## Page 25

13-00000

ESTED

Mafia.

after pachit, (2e5

anties.

13) Perist of tirt

selecter.

milline, its - for each

I REPRODUCTOACE

esgereice..

sta

Не те Ренії

PROHIBITED

1o). bhat a linste on tea or nitribes sister

silentel? Mo "tram'" until read to go...

16 Deme of studies.

REPRODUCTION-

PROMIBITED

SECRET

÷.

122n

---

## Page 26

13-00000

id!..

"The magic litton 90

'arcatics first

FIS 201 cone..

aution- Bautie istan

RODUCTION - u-2/

→ apply tnakes.... PROBITED

Lothesent heyond lost retad o

a compestion is mother. =

- El. Benefecter →

16 Examples 3 " ron;

Liferal

Paustating Madnes" - ME

bosic.

sounds Fis

Trathscia -

:6.A1.

AS— FanfarPROHIbITED

To nevin missition

1 Select proper opera to ren-

Tray 2

13. Secret ReLe SECRET

sid - fesen,

10

43

---

## Page 27

13-00000

6:

no ill agencin

ABUTED

tectis.... 1500- prom 1B

me can spar

an a was

11. case officininng...

comer pile-create a from.

13- hat dangers of 11s counte

are tilareil ..

remember

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

SECRET

---.

-0593315

11

PACE

COP? NO.

---

