# 104-10256-10081

## Page 1

104-10256-10081

CABCE SETRCIARIAT DIS

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

AT:.

DISSEM BY

ACTION

PER

SLOTTED

RYBA

RID COPY

ESIFI OMiSIAGE

TOTAL COPIES 2L

When Filled In

DOMNGRADING ANS

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES L NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X•REF TO FILE NO..

FILE RID D RET. TO

INFO:

•JA INITIALS - SEEN BY

6

10

BRANCH O

DESTROY D SIG.

SEETMAS

50A 3 GF1d

18-1 26 MAr59 IN 666023

860

ASE CRE I 261218Z MAY 69 CITEL

SAIGON

, INFO: DIRECTOR, (UTENTIANE

13-149

CHONG KONG,

REF: DIRECTOR 88114 (SENT

ONLY)

13-5

WE HAVE BEEN PLAGUED FOR SOME WEEKS NOW

BY MR. MITCHELL L. WERBELL III, VICE PRESIDENT AND

DIRECTOR OF R AND D OF SIONICS, ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

WERBELL DESCRIBES HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY

EXPERI, HAS A VARIETY OF WEAPONS IO DISPLAY, CLAIMS

TO BE A RETIRED COLONEL; AND LAST WEEK INTRODUCED

HIMSELF AT A LOCAL NIGHTCLUB AS CHIEF OF WOFIRM IN

THAILAND.

20 WERBELL HAS A HISTORY OF SHOWING UP IN

TROUBLE SPOTS WHERE HE CAN MAKE A FAST BUCK. HE

IMPLIES THAT HE IS U.S. GOVT CONNECTED AND PRESENTS

A DEMONSTRATION OF A VARIETY OF EXOTIC

WEAPONS THAT NEVER FAILS TO IMPRESS. REF

DESCRIBES HIM AS AN UNSCRUPULOUS OPPORTUNIST WITH

A REPUTATION FOR LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS.

Ligh

e/1510

SECRET

12/p

---

## Page 2

iaF

TARIAT

PERSON/UNILINOTIFIED

• ADVANCE COPY

BY:

DISSEM BY.

ACTION

ISSUED

SLOTTED

PER

LASS IED I-DAGE

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP 1

LET CUDEO FROM AUTOMATE

(When Filled in)

+162885181649109

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

INDEX:D

YES D no

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIO CRET TO

INFO:

FILE. VR.

LING AND/OP

•LS - SEEN BY

6

8

9

10

BRANCH O

DESTROY SIG.

RID COPY

18-5

PAGE 2

3055 SECRET

3. WERBELL IS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN, BORN 1919,

SERVED IN OSS, HAS SHAVEN HEAD AND HANDLEBAR

MUSTACHE. REF ADVISES THAT FULL DETAILS OF HIS

• BACKGROUND SHOULD NOT BE PASSED TO

SINCE

HE IS U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, STATES THAT

CAN BE INFORMED, SHOULD HE APPEAR IN YOUR AREA,

THAT HE HAS AN UNSAVORY REPUTATION, HAS NO U.S..

GOVI CONNECTIONS, AND ANY DEALINGS WITH HIM SHOULD

BE APPROACHED WITH EXTREME CAUTION.

4. FOR SAIGON: WE UNDERSTAND THAT WERBELL

RECENTLY VISITED SAIGON AND DID HIS THING WITH GEN.

ABRAMS, WHO WAS SUITABLY IMPRESSED, AND WERBELL

IS NOW SETTING UP A SNIPER TRAINING PROGRAM.

5. FILE: 201-259910

SEGREI

§ porarch 1918

Phila:

•..

SECRET

31PV

---

