# 104-10067-10071

## Page 1

1104-10067-10071

SEGMET

RYDAD

/ 1

15 SEP 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

: Garrison's Charges Against CLA

This summary lists those persons linked in published

comments of Garrison or others to the New Orleans investigation

who also have, have had, or have claimed Agency ties. Because

Garrison has undisclosed information and may have been inten-

tionally misleading, the information in this paper should be viewed

as only a partial indication of the case against CIA that Garrison is

expected to elaborate in court.

Clay L. Shaw

Relationship to Case

Indicted for conspiracy to

assassinate President Kennedy.

Garrison has not linked Shaw to CLA

in any known statement. Trialis

expected to start late September or

early October 1967.

Relationship to Case

His son, Michael W. Laborde,

who has no CIA ties, told the

FBI of the father's tie to CIA

Facts Ie CIA

Contact of DCS office, New

Orleans, 1948-1956. Source

of several DCS reports,

chiefly on Latin America.

Introduced the then DCCI,

Gen. Charles P. Cabell, who

addressed its members, on

9 May 1961, to the New Orleans'

Foreign Policy Association.

Lawrence J. Laborde

Facts re CIA

DD/P (JMWAVE) contact from

February 1961 to April 1962.

Served as officer on ship used

SECRET

*R.7.03

06538

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHET

2

and has been extensively

debriefed by Garrison's

office. On ll May 1967

Lawrence Laborde telephoned

the DCS office, New Orleans,

said he feared a Garrison

subpoena, offered to leave the

U.S., and requested instruc-

tions. (He was told that the

New Orleans office was in no

position to advise him.)

Emilio Santana Galino

for Cuban operations.

Relationship to Case

Facts re CIA

Cuban burglar convicted in New

Orleans in 1964, placed on

probation, allowed to go to Miami,

recalled to New Orleans by

Garrison 12 February 1967 and

subjected to five days of ques-

tioning. FBI report says SANTANA

was alleged to own a Manlicher-

Carcano rifle like Oswald's and to

have been in Dealy Plaza at time of

assassination on orders of the

alleged conspirators (Shaw, Oswald,

David Ferrie, and Sergio Arcacha

Smith). During June 1964 listed

CIA as employer in loan application

for car purchase.

Recruited by DD/P (JMWAVED

in October 1962 as guide for

Knew

Dy true or other names 8 CIA

staff members and l4 other

Victor Manuel Paneque y Batista

Relationship to Case

Facts re CLA

Carlos Quiroga identified

Paneque to Garrison on 21

January 1967 as having been in

charge of training at a military

camp located in Lacombe,

Louisiana, in August 1963.

The

training site was on or near Lake

Arrived in U.S. September

1960 from Cuba, where he had

been chief of rural police.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECHET

3

Pontchartrain.

Garrison claims

that the camp was run by CIA. No

available information indicating

direct contact between Paneque

and Garrison or staff.

to be dropped at the end of

(that month for lack of any

immediate operational use

for him. CIA had no tie with

any training camp on or near

Lake Pontchartrain.

Alberto Federico Fernandez Hechavarria

Relationship to Case

Facts re CIA

On 12 July 1967 Michael W.

Laborde told a Cuban working

for Garrison,

"Mike" LNU, that

one Alberto FERNANDEZ was

the head of the Cuban organization

with which his father had worked.

"Mike! said that Gerald Patrick

Hemming Jr. I and one Roy LNU

had also told him about the

activity of Lawrence Laborde and

Alberto Fernandez with anti-

Castro Cuban organizations.

There is no available information

indicating direct contact between

Fernandez and Garrison or his

staff.

Fernandez lives in Key

Biscayne, Fla:

(DD/P (JMWAVE) contact,

(starting December 1960 and,

continuing at least through,

31 January 1966.

Relationship to Case

On 6 April Bringuier told New

Orleans office of DCS he had

• been summoned to Garrison's

office at unstated date, polygraphed,

and queried re CIA contact.

Believed his denial passed muster.

Also questioned by Alberto Fowler,

Carlos Jose Bringuier

Facts re CIA

Formerly the New Orleans

leader of the Student

Revolutionary Directorate

(DRE), an anti-Castro organi-

zation conceived, created, and

funded by CIA. Contact of DCS

office, New Orleans. (Further

RYBNT

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

RVENT

1917

a Cuban who is a Garrison

investigatör. According to

a statement to the FBI by

Carlos Quiroga, Fowler has

claimed that Garrison will

prove that Bringuier was aware

of Oswald's affiliation with CIA.

According to the Warren

Commission report (Vol. X, pp.

32-50) there was an altercation

and fight between Oswald and

Bringuier on 9 August 1963 and

a radio debate on 21 August

1963, when Oswald identified

himself as a Marxist.

details re contact have again

been requested of DCS.)

Bringuier was investigated by

the FBI'on behalf of the Warren

Commission. He has had no

contact with the DD/P, and there

is no DD/P. file on him.

Gerald Patrick Hemming Jr.

Relationship to Case

Facts re CLA

Michael W. Laborde furnished

Hemming has denied sponsorship

information to the FBI and Garrison's

by any U.S. Government agency.

office about Hemming and other ex-

However, recent information

marines and soldiers of fortune

from DCS indicates that he was

allegedly involved in anti-Castro

in touch with their Los Angeles

activities. On.8 July 1967

office. (Further details are

Hemming and Roy LNU (possibly

being sought.) A WH memoran-

Collins, an associate of Hemming)

dum of February 1965 states that

went to Garrison's office.

the DD/P has never had any

Hemming is currently living in

operational relationship with

Baton: Rouge. On 28 February

Hemming. A cable from a WH

1963 said that his group planned

Division covert operations office

to send a white feather to

in New Orleans, BARR 1682 of

President Kennedy. Had meeting

18 June 1964, reported that

with General Edwin A. Walker on

Hemming's group had threatened

12 July 1963. Has made derogatory

to create a scene to embarrass

remarks about CIA.

RIBAT

SEGIET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

5

Jack N. Rogers

Relationship to Case

Facts re CIA

Baton Rouge attorney, committee

counsel for Joint Legislative

Committee on Un-American

Activities of the State of

Louisiana.

Has been in touch

with Garrison and his staff.

Has been a source of the DCS

office in New Orleans since

September 1959.

William Wayne Dalzell

Relationship to Case

Facts re CIA

Gordon Duane 'Novel told the FBI

on 6 May 1967 that Dalzell had

been in touch with the FBI and with

CLA, according to Dalzell's former

landlady, and that Garrison was

interested in Dalzell. FBI files

link Dalzell to charges of trans-

porting stolen property, fraud,

and gun-running.

Dalzell was in touch with the

New Orleans office of the DCS

on 15 November 1960, 20

January 1961, and 1 February

1961, in connection with his

proposals for a Radio Free Cuba.

There were no subsequent DCS

contacts. There have been no

DD/P contacts.

Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation

Relationship to Case

Facts re CLA

Garrison has charged that Gordon

Novel; Sergio Arcacha Smith,

and others robbed a munitions

bunker at Houma, Louisiana.

Gordon Novel has stated that the

munitions in the bunker belonged

'to the Schlumberger Corporation

and that he and others removed

the contents of the bunker in

August 1961 at the instigation of

CIA.

The New Orleans office of

the DCS had one contact with

Charles A. Doh, manager of

the Schlumberger office in New

Orleans, in June 1955.

There

has been occasional but circum-

spect contact with the main

Schlumberger office, in Houston,

for an extended but unspecified

period. Such contact continues.

RYBAT

SECHET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

RYBAT

SECHET

6

Relationship to Case

In a Vancouver Sun interview

printed 8 August 1967 Norton

claimed that he started working

for CIA in mid-1957, that the.

association ended in November

1966, and that in 1958 he

delivered $150,000 in CIA funds

to David Ferrie for transfer

to Cuba, and that in 1962 Clay

Shaw passed him $50,000 to

be couriered to Monterrey,

Mexico, where Norton gave

this sum to Oswald. On 15

July 1967 a representative of

Garrison's office flew with

Norton to New Orleans, where

his story was taped. Garrison

has said that he plans to use

Norton as a witness during

Shaw's trial.

Donald P. Norton

Facts re CIA

Norton's story is a lie. He

has had no link with CIA. FBI

reporting shows that Donald

Philetus Norton, undoubtedly

the same person, was discharged

from the U.S. Army (according

to his mother) "with a nervous

condition"; he has a record of

nine arrests, between 1949 and

1958 alone, for embezzlement,

forgery, bad checks, etc.

Gordon D. Novel

Relationship to Case

Novel has claimed CLA affiliation,

implied Agency ties, and denied

Agency ties.

Garrison has stated

that Novel was a CIA agent and

that one of his lawyers, Stephen

Plotkin, is paid by CLA. Novel

was polygraphed by a private de-

tective in McLean, Va., so that

the newspapers linked him to

CIA. He has alleged that he and

Facts re CIA

All of Novel's claims about

association with CIA are lies.

(The Agency has also had no

tie to Stephen Plotkin.) His

motives remain obscure. One

possibility is that he is in

collusion with Garrison.

RIBAT

SECHET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

7

others robbed the Schlumberger

bunker in Houma, La., at CLA's

instigation and that he ran the

Evergreen Advertising Agency

in New Orleans as a CIA front.

He left in a New Orleans apartment

a letter, subsequently handed to

Garrison, implying a tie between

Novel and CIA operation Double -

Chek. On 28 May 1967 Novel sent

to the DCI a telegram about the

Garrison investigation. On 22

August 1967 he telephoned the DCS

office in New Orleans and said

that he would try to keep CIA from

becoming involved in Garrison's

investigation. In a Chicago TV

interview of 15 May 1967 Novel

said that he met Garrison in 1966

and later worked for him as a

counter-audio expert. He left

New Orleans for Columbus, Ohio,

shortly after the Garrison inves-

tigation started. Garrison's

subsequent efforts to secure his

extradition were not successful.

RUBAT

SECHET

---

