# 104-10161-10097

## Page 1

104-10161-10097

ABLE SIR DISSEM BY O

6

-__PER_

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

UT RuNar

ERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

DVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED EVA

STAFF

AT 1255 =

•CTION UNIT

IF. FILE.

VR. /PlAN, /PlAN, COSa, SECURE

DAG

218

N

F

ACTION #

OGE a, COMMeS, 0D0, DDA

3

OSB

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED

moe!

ENOL

631054

ELA355

PAGE 21

805199

TOR: 261252Z JAN 76

29824

SECRET

15 - 1

261330Z JAN 76

STAFF

CITE

29624

15-15

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR,

[MUSPLASH

03

2. MORNING 25

RECEIVED PHONE CALL AT

HOME FROM YOUNG MAN WHO SAID HE CHRIS PHILLIPS, SON OF DAVE

PHILLIPS. HE SAID HE ON VACATION AND REQUESTED INFO ON WHAT

TO SEE AND DO IN MADRID AREA.

ALSO ASKED IF POLITICAL SITUATION

IN PORTUGAL SUCH THAT TRAVEL THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM.

WAS ON WAY TO MEETING AND ASKED THAT ME CALL BACK LATER.

HE DID, AND SAID HE TRAVELING TO LISBON THAT NIGHT AND WOULD

RETURN MADRID LATER IN WEEK. HE SAID HE DID NOT HAVE ADDRESS

IN MADRID AT MÜMENT AND WOULD CALL

AGAIN UPON RETUR

TO MADRID.

2, WE SOMEWHAT SUSPICIOUS THIS CALL SINCE

DOES

NOT KNOW

CHRIS PHILLIPS, ALTHOUGH IT PUSSIBLE HIS FATHER GAVE

• HIM!

NAME AS SOMEONE TO HELP HIM WITH TOURIST QUES-

TIONS, ALSU DOUBT THAT PHILLIPS WOULD HAVE CA-LED BACK IF HE

ONLY PRUBING FOR LOCATION OF CIA PERSONNEL, SINCE FIRST CALL

WOULD HAVE CONFIRMED WHAT HE WANTED KNON. CHECK WITH MARINE

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•"AbLE SEC DISSEM EV

PER

• 'ENSON, UNIT NOTIFIED_

DVANCE COPY ISSUED/ SLOTTED

•CTION UNIT

• RF.

FILE .

N

F

ACTION #

631294

E1A355

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

-HUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTMIA THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

STAFF

- AT

VR.

PAGE 02-02

TOR: 261252Z JAN 76

|4:

6

IN

15-2

885199

29824

GUARD REVEALED THAT SOMEONE HAD CALLED EMBASSY MORNING 25 JAN

ASKING FOR

HOME PHONE. MARINE GUARD FURNISHED THE

NUMBER, ALTHOGEN RECENT EMBASSY INSTRUCTION IS NOT TO GIVE OUT

SUCH NUMBERS BUT ASK CALLER FOR HIS NUMBER AND SAY PERSON WILL

GET IN TOUCH WITH HIM,

3. CAN HOS CONFIRM THAT CHRIS PHILLIPS TRAVELING IN

IBERIA AND. THAT DAVE PHILLIPS GAVE HIM NAMES OF PEOPLE.

TO CALL ON THERE?

16-15

PHILLIPS MAY ALSO CALL ON PERSONS YOUR

STATION

WHO KNOWN TO DAVE PHILLIPS.

5. FILE: DEFER. EZ IMPDET

S

E

C RE

3/01

---

