# 104-10162-10225

## Page 1

104-10162-10225

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

4

=

ACTION;

INFO :

C/ 5

DCI, D/DC1 ,

DĐP,

C/SAS 5,

30/1, S/e 2

ADDP, C/S00 4, r'Eh 2, C/EI, C/F1 2, C/F1/D, C/FI/INT, C/IW,

SECRET 331833Z

PRITY WAVE FACY INFO DIR CARA TEGU SANA CITE SJOS 6039

OK.

/DYVOUR /PERUVEN

•30 MAY 163

IN49789

A. SJOS 6028 14149527) *4

B: WAVE 8666 (N42760) ***

.C: DIR 42324

(NOT SENT HAVE TEGU CARA)

1: • PURPOSE ARTIME TALKS WITH GOVERNENI LEADERS PANAMA, COSTA RICA,

NICARAGUA AND OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAY COUNTRIES IS TO SEEK THEIR COOP-

ERATION IN PROPOSED MILITARY OPERATION AGAINST PBRUMEN WHICH SCHEDULED

BEGIN WITHIN NEXT FOUR OR FIVE WEEKS.

2: IN COSTA RICA ARTIME ASSED, AND APPARENTLY GOT, PRESIDENT

ORLICH PERMISSION USE COSTA RICAN ATLANTIC TERRITORIAL WATERS AND SEA

PORTS FOR PROVISIONING VESSELS, CHANGINS CREWS AND AS SHELTER AREAS

OR FOR OTHER EMERGENCY NEEDS.

3: ARTIME NAMED ROLANDO CABEZAS, CUBA! EXILE, AS HIS LIAISON

OFFICER IN COSTA RICA. COMMO TO BE MAINTAINED THROUGH UNIDENTIFIED

COURIER WHO WILL TRAVEL SY AIR BETWEEN MIAMI AND COSTA RICA: FC:

OFFICIAL IMMIGRATION LIST SHOUS ROLANDO CASEZAS PENARROYO, CUSA!

PP-33410, ARRIVED SJOS FROM MIAMI ON LACSA FLIGHT 621 OF 19 MAY: 63.

4: FRANK MARSHALL IS IMPORTANT FIGURE IN THIS MILITARY MOVEMENT

AND IS LIAISON OFFICER BETWEEN THE SOMOZAS AND COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT.

FC: THIS MAY TIE IN WITH RET C REPORT THAT MARSHALL, SOMOZA AND

ROBLES ARE INVOLVED IN ARMS SMUGGLE? DEAL. AST., MARSHALL KNOWN

TO HAVE VISITED SOMOZA IN NICARAGUA O: NUMEROUS OCCASIONS DURING

GRUS?1

777.

EXCLUDED FRCE AUTOMATIC DOWN-

Zi-DING AND DECLASSIFIÇATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

RETURN TO CLA

Background Uae Or

Do Nol Roprocho

---

## Page 2

104-10162-10225

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION;

INFO:

PAGE 2 IN 29799

PAST FEY MONTHS AD SOMOZA RECENTLY TALKED WITH ORLICH IN SJOS.

S. SOURCE MYLARE-: CO) FROM OBLANDO NINEZ CUBAN (E), FROM GONZALO

SOLORZATO GONZALSZ 85), OPLICH SECRETARY, EVAL-3, NO LOCAL DIST.

6O SJOS TRYINS GET MORE INFO OH MARSHALL-SOMOZA ROLE THIS AFFAIR

AND WILL CABLE SIGNIFICANT RESULTS.

SECRET

C/S • COMMENT: *"RYBAT" APPARENTLY INTENDED.

S/ NOTE: /LUIS MOM EL MART NET (F?

DOES NOT RAPEAR IN TEXT BEING SUES.

C/S Comment: **Artine expressed complete satisfaction his

negotiations with President Rene Schick and the Sonozas.

He apparently

got promise of full cooperation in future PBRUMEN (1) ops.

*.***Reported that Artime leaving "AVE area on 21 May to obtain third

country ops base. Requested addee cable info re results or failures

Artime mission.

****Requested info on report that Marco Robles is in a deal with Frani

Marshall and General Anastacio Somoza to smuggle arms,

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FRO: AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUIG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

0.1880

---

