# 104-10126-10082

## Page 1

104-10126-10082

200-

June 15, 1978

NOTE FOR

FROM

SUBJECT

: The Director

: Haviland Smith

: The HSCA Investigation of the Mexico City Station

1. The memorandum from Scott Breckinridge, attached hereto, dated

15 June, addresses only one aspect of our problem with the HSCA.

fall of this year, the HSCA will prepare a report for the Congress which will

be unclassified.

There seems every likelihood that this report, whether we

are able to contest it successfully either with the Committee or perhaps even

in the Courts, will contain sensitive information, the revelation of which

will be very damaging to our interests in Mexico. Not only will this report

provide evidence of our

activities are aqainst Mexican Law, but it wiTh alsol

Tactivity in Mexica Citx- which

The best example of this, but not the only

example, is their telephone"tap activity, the evidence from which will be

an integral part of the HSCA's conclusions.

2. Mexico City is a focal point for Soviet intelligence operations

against the continental United States.

There is a long, documentable history

of Soviet activities based in Mexico being run into our Country.

The relation-

ship that

Tis a critical ingredient

in our ability to protect ourselves against these Soviet intelligence acti-

vities. You will recall that the Boyce-Lee case was brought to our attention

by those elements of/the Mexican government.

"If, as we suspect, the Committee

publishes the kind of information spelled out above, the result on this

]will be disastrous. It will seriously weaken our

ability to protect our country from Soviet intelligence activities.

3. We believe that the issues raised by Chairman Stokes in his letter

to you affords an excellent opportunity for you to underline to him some of

the problems which are inherent in an ultimate declassification and publica-

tion of the sensitive information they have gleaned from our files on general

intelligence activities in Mexico City.

This may not prove to be helpful

in dampening the ardor of the HOSA staff, but it most certainly will put

them on notice that the course they are taking will have direct repercussions

not only on CIA activities

in Mexico City, but on our bilateral relations

with that country.

77797

19998

---

