# 104-10174-10029

## Page 1

104-10174-10029

SECRET

20 Mey 1960

NEMORANIUM FOR: Chief, Covert Action Start

SUE.TBCT

: Edvard G. TIchborn (P)

• On 11, May I contacted Tichborn (P) In Los Angeles, Followin

be suggestion that Mr. Collins bad made, I guerled him aa to hi

amdlability to work with some of our cubans. I pointed out to him

that there was a Cuban soverent In extle forming and that we were

trying to keep tabe on it and hoped to be able to steer it along

Lines which we thought to be in the best Interest to the United

Statas. In thia connection I said that we had a North American

who was more or less handlins the operation and trying to guide them

as best he could, horever, we felt that 1t might be highly desirable

to Interjeet him

Into the picture because of his background and

language capabllity. I went en to point out to him that it vas

obviously an extremely dirficult task to get the Castro opposition

to agres to one coordinated program, ete.

I told bin that 1t vas

our hope that 1f & goverment in erdle were formed, it would Include

all segments of the castro opposition and that we were pulling

strings to see to it that 1t vas not formed in the United States. I

told TIchborn (P) that we did not envisage that he would have to sork

permanently with this group but rather that he would be available

from time to time to discuss with then and to act as an auditor of

their probiens as all as a mentor in their operation, etce

Michborn (P) said that he vould be very glad to do this for

us sad thought had would be able to find the time, the ants question

that arose in hia aird was the fact that he will soon be actively

engaged in the Denocratic carpaign, perhaps on a full time basie.

This obviously raises a security problem as 11 It vere to become known

that he vere working with the Castro opposition, it might refleot

unfavorable on whoever he was supporting politically in this country.

It was left that he vould give some serious thought to this problem

and let me know as soon as he made up his mind definitely one way o

he otder whether he would de willing and avallable to vork with th

government in exile on a spot basis from time to time.

Horoso the Daya

Chief

Political Action Divlalon

06

SECRET

..?!

---

