# 104-10216-10175

## Page 1

104-10216-10175

.......

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217.6/20/17

SESRET

5 June 1964

CONTACT REPORT:

PERSONS PRESENT:

PURPOSE:

New York dity, AMWHIP/1's •›ffice

31 W 47th Street, 4 June 1964, 1200-1630 hrs.

To debrief AMWHIP/1 after his recent tril

¿o Europe, especially the Paris aepect os

WhEn AMLASH 2.

in particular, his contact

1. AMWHIP/1 was given the new sterile phone number in wH/SA front

office - 628-1899.

2. The letter from Manolo OROPESA (Ondte. Pedro Enrique OROPESA

del Portal) was discussed with AMWHIP/1. AMWHIP/1 stated that

the letter had no other meaning then to introduce the tuo basketball

players. from the University of Rabana, Pacheco and Davis, to AMWHIP/1.

• If there were any underlying reason why AMLASH/1 did this, It would

only be to point out his relationship with OROPESA. •According to

AMWHIP/1, OROPESA 18 a good man, anti-Commuist, and a very close

friend of AMLASH/1. He was in the Escambray during the fighting

with AMLASH/1. He i8 approximately 26-28 years old, Chief of the

Rebel Army AA, and an officer whom ve can be sure that AHLASH/1

will use at the proper time. Juanito IZAGUIRRE 18 also a good

Értend of AMLASH/1 and of AMWHIP/1, He does not have an important

position. He prevlously worked in AWHIP/l's jewelry shop in Habana.

AMWHIP/1 believes he is nou unemployed but a trusted friend of

AMLASH/1 whom AMLASH/1 uses for small jobs and errands of a confi-

dential nature.

SECRET

-1-

---

## Page 2

104-10216-10175

3. DE. RaLL PORTELA, whom OROPESA mentioned in his letter as

"Bt111 his frlend," according to AMWHIP/1, DI. PORTELA worke 1n

one of the hospitals in Miami. He belleves it is Sinal hat is not

certain. The telephone number in Miami 18 CA 6-0113. DI. PORTELA

1a martled to Vivian RODRIGUEZ Favar. (Check this DE. PORTELA an

1t previously thought DI. Raul PORTELA was at present in Spain

and listed with ISR.)

4. The letter from AMLASH/1 tO AMWHIP/1 was hand-carried by "El

Feo" CARBONELL. The original letter was obtained from AMWHIP/1

In order to check it for possible S/W from AMLASH/1. (No S/W 1n

elther AHLASH/1 system or AMTRUNK/10 system). CARBONELL accompanied

the basketball team to Paris.

5. Marc SIEGEL: AMWHIP/1 was asked that if and when SIEGEL visits

New York City, AMFHIP/1 should find out what SIEGEL's current

situation 18 in Brazil, who he knous in Cuban community, what cir

cles he travels 1n, and hou active he 1a in these circles. In

brief, a new assessment of SIEGEL's position and potential.

6. "EL Mago" ROBRENQ: AMWHIP/1 offered to help, if needed, 1n

transcribing the two tapes of his conversation with "El Mago".

AMWHIP/1 stated it was too bad he could not have had another session

with "El Mago" but the hotel room was avallable for only one day

and evidently, according to AMWHIP/1, the people in Paris were

unable to arrange for another hotel room. AMWHIP/l spent at least

15 days with Ambassador CARRILLO and the other Cubans in the Cuban

Embassy In Parts. He claims he was with them every day and feels

that wuch more could have been accomplished had he had closer

direction and supprvision. while he vas there.

So many things

---

## Page 3

104-10216-10175

were talked about that he has been mable to remember all the

detaile. AMWHIP/1 suggests ve give him a porteble tape recorder

or some other meass by which he could record all his conversations

¿ with these people. (AM/HIP/l's experience during this past trip

point out the need of sending a C/O from HQS uith him if maxlm

advantage 18 to be gained from his contacts vith the Cubana. He

needs close guidance and direction and not only expects it but

velcomes 1t.)

7. "EL LOCO" ¡BARRA: According to "El Mago" It nou appears that

"El Loco" will not be coming to Europe.

8. S/M Iraining of "El Mago": AMWHIP/I was trained in Paris and

In turn trained "El Mago" In S/W. In order to cover his kno:ledge

about S/W, AMWHIP/1 told "El Mago" that he had learned this partic-

ular system from contacts in Brussles who are in the international

diamond business. ANWHIP/1 feels "El Mago" did not question the

above story, When AMWHIP/1 left Paris, "El Mago" was planning to

travel to Spain and agreed to vrite a practice S/₩ letter to

AMWHIP/1 In New York. The letter from "El Mago" will be addressed

. to AMWHIP/l'8 personal address (in New York). (Paris Station did

not give AMWHIP/l the New Jersey accommodation address sent to

Paris by HQS. "El Mago" expects an S/W letter from AMWHIP/1 during

his stay in Spain.

-3-

cent to sire

---

## Page 4

104-10216-10175

• -

9. "El Mago" Plansi "El Mago" plans and hopes to be able to

return soon to Cuba. AMWHIP/l feels that after an appropriatr.

cooling off period, "El Mago" will be permitted to return to Cuba.

During Ambassador CARRILLO's recent trip, he talked to President

DORTICOS in "El Mago'g" behalf, using the ploy that after all,

"El Mago" was one of their people, proven by the fact that he had

reported "El Cojo" ROCHE'" artempt to recruit "El Mago" on behalf

of the Americans. According to CARRILLO, DORTICOS reportedly stated:

"Oh, yas, me know all about 'El Cojo' ROCHE, His activity has also

been reported by Ambassador MARISTANY and by MAS in Chile. We

know all about his activity," AMWHIP/1 belleves "El Mago" w1ll

be able to return to Cuba as his political loyalty la not questioned

and the same reason he left Cuba was more of a personal nature (beat-

Ing his wife, getting into fights and landing in jail because of

th1s.) Regarding "Bl Mago'&" relationship vith AHLASH/1, AMWRIP/1

does not belleve "El Mago" 18 aware of AMLASH/l's contact with

ODYOKE, "El Mago" 18 avATe Of AMLASH/1's antl-regime plans, 18

trusted by ALASH 1 and AMTRUNK/10. AMWHIP/1 feels that if "El Mago"

returns to Cuba, he can be counted on to maintain his S/l contact

and report the situation of the AMLASH/1 group. AMhHIP/1 briefed

. "El Mago" not to tell AMLASH/l about their S/W as he had offeied

this S/M system to AMLASH/1 and he brushed it off as not wanting to

bother with it. "El Mago" agreed.

---

## Page 5

104-10216-10175

-

According to AMWHIP/1, "El Mago" 1s the type of person knoun by

everyone and with the ability of talking to or going anyuhere he

pleases; this being part of the ua.'s totally extrovert personality.

Because of this trait, AMWHIP/1 feels that "El Mago" w1ll be able

to develop Inforastion of interest. "El Mago" talked to AMWHIP/1

about the Cuban government's concern that the mails are being used

for intelligence purposes and also the need for postal controla

mentioned by Domingo PORTELA Placeres, Vice Minister of Conmunications.

AMHHIP/1 did not ask "El Mago" for details but reported that "El Mago"

had stated the following: In order to try and control the problew,

Habana has been divided into postal zones; each zone is issued and

selle a different series of stamps. The government tries to establish

patterns and tries to isolate zones from which suspicious letters

are salled. They then intensify their efforts in the areas from

which these letters are mailed. The censors are especially alert

for patterns of suspicious incoming letters to a given address.

Based on an arrival pattern of suspicious letters, a more thorough

Investigation is then made of the fanily living at that address.

• (AMWHIP/1 could not fill in any of the details regarding the above

but w1ll question "El Mago" further on this subject the next time he

sees him. )

'10. According to "El Mago", the old PSP members control many of

the operations of the DSE. They have this control because they.

organized and placed their people throughout the DSE structure.

The DSE has offices under cover in all parts of Habana. "El Mago"

entloned the use of a seamstress shop, for example. It 1s espe-

cially in these small deep cover segments where the old PSP exerciss

-5-

---

## Page 6

104-10216-10175

control. According to "El Mago" even Ramiro VALDES does not

realize the extent that his organization is penetrated by the old

COMFUn' 8E8. JUBtO HERNANDEZ, who was recently in Parie, 18 8

member of the DSE and one of Ramiro VALDES' secretaries. He 18

approximately 38-40 years old; born in Cienfuegos.

11. JuAn DAVID Eosada: JDP 18 Cultural Attache, Paris. AMWHIP/1

aBBeBBeS DAVID as anti-commle, anti-regime and possibly recruitable

provided the right person is used to make the contact. AMWHIP/1

has a gift (tablecloth) from Juan DAVID which he asked AMWHIP/1

to give to his brother-in-law, Raul GONZALEZ Jerez (a Bay of Pigs

veteran) who lives in Miaml and 18 the owner of the"21 Club" on

Venetian Way, Miemt Beach. AMWHIP/1 was requested to personally

deliver the present to Raul and assesg Raul as the man we should use

In approaching DAVID. If we get a good assessment fron AMWHIP/1,

Raul can then be approached independently of AMWHIP/1 (to protect

AMWHIP/1) and asked if he 1a willingb travel to Parls and attempt

to recruit his brother-in-law (DAVID) in place.

12. JOBS IGLESIAS: AMWHIP/1'8 jeweler friend In Habana. IGLESIAS,

according to AMWHIP/l is the source of the information regarding

Fidel CASTRO's bank account (26P) in the Bco. Nacional de Cuba.

IGLESIAS was the man in Habana who contacted AMWHIP/1 in regard to

the Jewelry which Fidel CASTRO wanted to sell. When CASTRO found

out that IGLESIAS was the man who arranged the deal, he called

IGLESIAS to his office, gave him $1,000.00 in cash and a bank

draft from the Beo. Nael de Cuba on which was written "Cuenta

(account) Fidel Castro Ruz 26P to the name of Jose IGLESIAS $9,000.00,

Banque Nord d'Europe. IGLESIAS was told by CASTRO tO present this

=6=

---

## Page 7

104-10216-10175

draft at the Banque Nord d'Europe where he would be given the

$9,000.00. CASTRO informed IGLESIAS that this money was to be

spent in any way IGLESIAS so desired and was being glvent him for

arranging the jewelry deal with AMWHIP/1. IGLESIAS was also given

a trip to Europe where AMWHIP/1 was in contact with him. According

tO ANWHIP/1, IGLESIAS, before Castro, ouned the largest jevalry

store in Habana. His business vas confiscated by the State and

IGLESIAS filed a sult against the government. During his visit

with CASTRO, IGLESIAS was asked by Fidel what he was doing, to

which IGLESIAS answered, "nothing since you took my business away

from ne." Fidel then went on to say how stupid the people running

the Consolidados were and promised IGLESIAS he would arrange for

his business to be returned to him after he returned from Europe.

In addition to 4,700 plegs of jewelry which the government has con-

Ilscated, they also have original o1l paintinge and a stamp collection

valued at $230,000.00 per the latest Scott catalog. According to

IGLESIAS, an English firm offered $1, 200,000.00 for the jewelry,

paintings, stamp collection, and a collection of gold coins but

Fidel refused. Because of the bungling by his underlings, Eldel

and Cella Sanchez are personally handling this little project.

The jewelry, paintings, etc, are kept in vaults in the Beo. Nacl.

de Cuba. In the bank it 16 Pepin SANCHEZ, Cella's brother-in-law,

uho 1o approximately 45-50 years old, who helpe Fidel and Celia in

this project. According to IGLESIAS, Pepin SANCHEZ, regardless of

title, 1s the man uho runs the Boo. Nael de Cuba. Pepto 18 also

the man who personally handles the ?26 bank account and approves

or disapproves sales. The Cubans want to continue to send packages

---

## Page 8

104-10216-10175

-

of jewelry valued at approximately $50,000.00 each to AMWHIF/1

through the Embascy in Paris. AMWHIP/1 paid 1,287,000 Su free.

for the first package of jewelry nich he bought. In addition

to the package which was valued at $300,000, there was an addi-

tional package of jewelry valued at $10,500.00 which AMWHIP/1

also bought. The Cuban Embasay in Paris deposited the Swies'

francs in the Banque Nord d'Europe on elther 12 or 19 May 1964.

(AISHIP/1 was not sure of the exact date.) In the Cuban Embassy.

In Parlo, TOLON, the code clerk, was the actual custodian of the

Jewelry.

(TOLON - married; colored. Lives with his

wife in the Embassy. He has been in Paris approxi-

mately eight months but AMWHIP/1 did not know

exactly.) He seldom leaves the Embassy. According

to AMWHIP/1, he is the custodian of the Embassy and

the code clerk. AMWHIP/1 says he 18 a simple, good-

natured sort of pleasant. AMWHIP/1 had the opportunity

of talking to him several times as the jewelry he in-

spected and later bought was kept at the Embassy

by TOLON.)

When AMWHIP/1 decided that he would buy the jewelry, the Ambassador

(CARRILLO) did not have the authority to close the deal. A cable

vas sent to Pepin SANCHEZ in Habana for approval.. According to

CARRILLO and IGLESIAS, Fidel has boxes of gold (no details), which

he wants to make into objects of art and sell. He feels this way

he, can expect better returns from It. CASTRO wants AMWHIP/1 t0

= 8-

exas

---

## Page 9

104-10216-10175

advise him what he can do along these lines. In order to give

CASTRO some answer AMWHIP/1 informed them that probably the

best they could do would be to mint gold medals which could then

be sold outside of Luba. (AMWHIP/1 feels even this would be

difficult for them to arrange but felt he had to give some kind

of an ansver.) CASTRO has extended an invitation to AMWHIP/1 to

Visit Cuba for 15 days so they could discuss the above business -

(AHWHIP/1's comment: "Thanks, but no thanks.") Before and after

discussing the details of his jewelry deals, AWHIP/I asked that

the record be made abundantly clear that ive would not and will not

buy any more jewelry if he 1s so asked by the USG (1-e., 1f USG

doesn't want him to do so). AMWHIP/1 states that these deals have

and will continue to give him an excellent entree with the Cubans

but for the record he also wishes to state he does make a profit

from it.

13. AmbRaaador CARRILLO: AMWHIP/1 does not feel we could success-

fully approach CARRILLO at this particular time. CARRILLO 18 very

much lepressed with lipposition and the confidence CASTRO has

placed in him. CARRILLO 18 responsible for the coordination of

the work of all of the other embassies In Western Europe, what

could be called the Supervisory Ambassador for Europe. Hie contact

wIth the Spanish Embassy in Paris is extensive and he 1s playing a

major role in expanding Cuba's trade vith Europe, especially Spain.

CARRILLO 18 opposed to and speaks against the old line communists,

eBpecially Anibal ESCALANTE and Blas ROCA. (AMWHIP/1 feels CARRILLO

Is very pro-Spanish and anti-communist but at this time riot anti-

PIDEL.) Regarding the role recently played by CARRILLO regriding

---

## Page 10

104-10216-10175

:.

US-Cuban relations, AMWHTP/1 1s certain that CARRILLO was acting

on orders fron Fidel. According to AMWIIP/1 In such matters as

this, no one in Cuba today, Including CARRILLO, would dare act

on his ows. Upon his return from Cuba, CARRILLO was much leBs

Interested in the subject of reaching an understanding with the

U.S. AMWHIP/1 again Interprets this as orders from Fidel. When

ЛМWHIP/1 asked CARRILLO about the subject after his return,

CARRILLO passed it off by stating that as long as the U.S. con-

tinued Its a88tes8lve moves against Cuba, nothing could be done

until they were willing to sit down and discuss the matter as

equals.

14. The Marcos-Rodriguez Irlal: AMWHIP/1 stated most of the

info he received on this subject from ROBREND should be one one

of the tapes. In sumaty, ROBREND told AMWHIP/1 that Faure Chomon

got the letter which he later made public from his contacts inBide

the DSE. Fidel was furlous with CHOMON for making the letter public

but once he had and the trial developed, Fidel took CHOMON's side

in the affair. After the end of the trial, CHOMON and AMLASH/1

spent tuo days at Varadero with Fidel fishing. Because of the

circumstances, Fidel was forced into the position of siding with

CHOMON but according to "El Mago", CHOMON is not deceived that

Fidel will ever forgive him for rocking the boat" and causing the

uproar in the PURS. There never has been and never will be any love

loBt between CHOMON and Fidel. (On the surface Paure CHOMON came

out unhurt from the latest erisis. If anybody was hurt, it was the

old line communiste, especially Edith GARCIA Buchaca.)

-10-

---

## Page 11

104-10216-10175

53/7

15. Cuban Real EstAte 1a PArIS: CARRILLO 18 planning to nove

out of the Embassy Building and Into an apartment for whiel: CARRILLO

has already offered $600 a month. The real estate agent who talked

to CARRILLO about the apartment on 24 May 1964 spoke English and

looked like an American. The Cubans plan to nove the Consulate

into the Embassy Bldg. and hope to get $25,000.00 for the key rent.

on the Consulate Bldg. According to CARRILLO, the Chicoms have

offered $5,000, 000.00 for a iuilding on Av. Foch, 1 or 2 blocke

toward the Effel Tower from the Cuban Embassy. The house 1s pink,

has a large garden in the front, covers one whole block.

16. UNSNAFU/9: AMWHIP/1 is cencerned over UNSNAFU/9's attitude

and loose talk. He talked to him about it but feels he accomplished:

very little. Even "El Mago" got into the act and nearly had a fight

with UNSNAFU/9. Regarding MORALES, AMWHIP/1 believes he has contact

with the French. He is a good person and the same type as UNSNAFU/9.

According to WHIP/1 they ply do of have enough sense to know

when to keep their mouths shut. Because of the way they act, AMHIP/1

Is surprised they have been able to keep their jobs as long as they

have. ANWHIP/1 stated that UNSNAPU/9 was used for all sorts of

Jobs in the Embasay and feels that if he used his head he could do

much more for us than he 1s doing. AMWHIP/l drew a rough floor

plan of the Embassy and feels UNSNAFU/9 can get the information

on the part of the Babassy that he did not visit and where TOLON,

the code clerk, works.

-11-

---

## Page 12

104-10216-10175

17. AMWHIP/1 plans another trip to Europe the end of June 1964,

to gee Jose IGLESIAS before he ratums to Cuba. Alco, for further

discussions on his jewelry deals. If he does 8o, he would like

to have a detalled plan on what ve want him to do for us.

18. Ways and means of getting to IGLESIAS were discussed at length

as AMWHIP/1 aB8es8e8 him a8 antl-coummist and anti-regime. AMWHlP/1

also states that it is very important to get the right person to

establish contact with IGLESIAS. He could come up with no suggestions

except himself. AMWRIP/1 feels that IGLESIAS would be a good man

to be in contact ulth, especlally non that he is working closely

with Fidel, Cella and Pepin SANCHEZ on the Jewelry business. It

was agreed that ve vould like to establish a working relationship

with IGLESIAS but our concern 16 keep AMWRIP/1 uncontaninated. A

covert business relationship was suggested to AMWHIP/l as one possible

averue. AWHIP/l wanted to think this posslbillty over as his

first feeling was that it would be difficult to develop.

19. Sugar: According to CARRILLO, the Cubans expect this year's

sugar crop to be in excess of last year's. In four to five years

they expect the crop to top the five illion ton mark and up to ten

mIllion tons in seven to ten years. (Cuban pipe dreams), CARRILLO

also talked about a long term sugar contract with Tunis for llç per

1b. The recent sugar purchase of 10,000 tons by the Cubans was a

planned ploy to ralse the sugar price.

∞1200

---

## Page 13

104-10216-10175

•

-. •

20. ABRAHANTES: According to "El Mago", Abrahantes has been

moved off of Fidel's personal security detachment and back full

time! ith the DSE working on internal security matters.

21. Ambassador CARRILLO le very conschlous about the Embassy

being bugged and the telephones being tapped. In talking to

AIWHIP/1, he suggested they be careful what they discursed as

Bone do not know what way be in here." In discussing the recent

nove about the nikes in the American Embassy in Moscou, CARRILLO

mentioned to AMWHIP/1 that they had recently discovered nikes in

their Sabassy In Canada. CARRILLO also stated that two months

ago the technical people had swept the Embassy In Paris and found

nothing.

22. Geneya: AMWHIP/l stated he felt the trip to Geneva was •

totally unsuccessful and, even though he made every effort, could

see no possibilitles of establishing contact with Cubans who were

there. He stated that CAMEJO (INDEVOUT/3) vas a sour type and

11

..

felt he woull itave been wasting his time trying to get close to him.

' 23. According to "El Mago", AMIASH/1 planned an attempt against

Fidel In early 1964. The site he had selected was the stadium in

Habana. AMLASH/1, according to "El Mago", at the last minute

decided the effort was not feasible at this location.

24. Jose IGLESIAS plans to return to Cuba in late 1964, His address

In Cuba 18 Moro 7 altos, Habana; tel: A 0392. IGLESIAS 18 Visiting

his mother who lives in Spain at Pravia Penaullan in Oviedo, Espana.

He can be reached at Andres Torrejon #4, Madrid c/o Ma. Alvarez, a

niece.

- 13₴

.:*:

---

## Page 14

104-10216-10175

25. According to CARRILLO, Fidel plans using the money received

from the recent sals of jewelry to buy lab equipment for a hospital

In Habana. Dr. "Curle (kourl.or Khoury) 1s 1n Paris and authorized

to purchase this equipment.

26. Angel MORA Riestra (home tel 6-5836, Mgr. of Banco Nacional

Lo de a part order vet in the pent over aga

she distinct impression, based strictly on his general conversa.

-lons with him, that MOYA can be approached. AMWHIP/1 could not

provide any leads to MOzA. MOA has tuo daughtere.

27. Jose VENEGAS, VP of the Int. Union of Students in Prague -

AWHIP/l was informed that VINEGAS had telephoned UNSNAFU/9 from

Prague and had told him that AMIASH/I was unhappy that he had not

received an answer to his letter, that VENEGAS was writing to

TRASANCOS and also was trying to telephone AMWHIP/l in Rome.

AMWHIP/1 belleves AMLASH/1 i8 trying to get an answer to his last

message but does not belleve that AMLASHl has cut VENEGAS 1n.

AHWHIP/l's feeling 1e based on his conversations with AMLASH/1

In November 1963 and their meetings with VENEGAS at that time.

AMWHIP/1 feels AMLASH/1 would not cut VENEGAS in at this stage

although he plans to use him later.!

27. Security: No security problems were encountered. As AMSPORT/1

works in AWHIP/l's office, an exchange of pleasantries with him

vas unavoldable as I had previously met him in Paris. AlWHIP/1

thinke AMSPORT/1 18 a nice fellow but a little on the lazy side.

-14-

---

## Page 15

104-10216-10175

i ".

(e:33!

RELEATION RECA

Canad)

TABLE

Diak

oнг,

£4-5019

HBA SSY

Si De ARIS

---

## Page 16

104-10216-10175

manteniti

TEAK

BANCO MACIONAL DB CUBA

CEs. Pidal CassTo des

26 P

• Jose Iglesia

89,000,00(1a darlera).

Banque Hard d'Barop

---

## Page 17

104-10216-10175

-210,0

longed allege Peestee

SANCO NATIONAL DE CUMS

• ARATA CUBA

=?:

1?=

---

