# 104-10101-10014

## Page 1

104-10101-10014

ted digi

1800

BOSE SERRACE 13 11

Ken HOLD

19. 16,

DOP,.

SAS

cA 2,

201

CA.

Do Not Pariadee

82744

LAH JAI DIS LOD PICT SJAN MADR QUIT BRIL RIOD BUK

IDO CARA LAVE CUAT PAL? SALY NOT

PIRATE

LATT AERICA BEIN

COMORY IN SLANTS ABATTER DEFO RELTAZABLE 1O

1. CUBA: ABODI 7,000 CENT SOLDIES ARE NOT EXQUISE DI

"SPECIAL VRAFIRS" COURSES, ACCORDING TO DETERES MINIBISE RAIT, CABTRO.

# RAID THAT THE PERSONARI LIVOLVEA ARE "FORGER RAMSE" VHO INLIS ED

LAST SUMER LI MISDONE TO A ANTRAL IX FILLL CASTRO. IN ADDITION :O

SURPACI-TO-AIR HIBSILES, FIS "SPSCIAL BRAPOES" PROBATY TICINE

HE-SILES AND FOL TACTICAL MANU.

2. BOLIVIA: //VICE PRESIDENT JUAN LECHIN ESTURED FROM RIS

A BARBADORIAL FOST IN FUKE ON 10 HOW AND INDIATELY ANOUNCED

HE HAS ABOUT TO UNDERTAKE AN SITENSIVE THIP FIBOUGH THE DITKELOF CY TH

COUNTRY THIS IS INTSRPHETED BY THE GOVERNT AS THE COMNKNCTHENT OF

A LICHIN CAMPAIN ATHEN AT RESTINE TEE PERINALI FROM PAZ ESTENSSORO

LECHIR, A CLEVER AND OPS-RTUNISTIC POLITICIAN, IS CONS IUENED TO KE

PAZ MAIN BIVAL FOR TAX CUBET FATIQIALIST RIVOLTTIONARY HOVERATE

Ді. INSING

---

## Page 2

DINARE

•EXT.

одето мо стАйт поу мю уні

FACiF. DIRECTOR

CONFEW

• By

istant; "?

417

ride tea

: TO

MAGE ID:

$2744

IONUAATION FOR JULI TIARS PRESIDIITIAL ELECTIONS. TO ERAD CUE A

DORE MALIN QUERNEIT THE GOVERNIET IN MARRIER TO FEE SIDING

BALIO MAN, OAX, MA OS BOLI ANCIRIT: DINION, TO THE GITY OF

CARAMANDA TO TET 20 BRRAE TES LEEHIREOS-OM

THIS BOLD CUER TE

DIETE, COCHABANIA DEPARTANNTAL LABOR COMPEDERATION. I1

AZIZ BAT AN ARMAN TATION OF THE BORTET AIR.

HIRAO D CATATE IN AVE I MONT TIE IT, POSTELY

7O FUFLORS IS PROSPACTE ON OUTAXMINE SOVIET ASHRATT FOR TET ERAZILIAT

AIR YORCE. CARVALEO HAD STATED THÁT NE HAS NO IHETRTIONE FROM HI8

OpTIANETT RSOARDING THIS VIBIT.

CARYAND HAS COMPLAIND THAT, WHIN IS HAS AIR MINISTER. THE OB

MATTIN TO IS PROVIDE IRAZIL MITH HNLICOPTIRS AFTER THE US DISCOURAGEO

ERASILIAN HNGOTIATIONS MITH POLAND POR IUD HELICOPTRRS HECLATES

LEAT BRARIL HAHDS AIRCRATT AND HOTES THAT OTIAR COUTIRS FATE "DOT..

CANVALHO MAY ALSO DISCUSS IN AGREAT: POO AIL RUTLES SETURNE

THE KIR AND BRABIL

PRETEN MEET: HE EN DEL EMI

15229

---

## Page 3

UNIT IT

248:

1ase.r

T?:

- PAGE THREE-

82444

SION FRON THE ARHY BY ZURE TERROSITS--ARE NOU BELISTED TO HAVE CONS

FIC CUBA THE WEAPORES, MAMUPACTURED IN THE DS AND IN BRIGID MAY HE

FRACED THROUGE SERIAL NUMBBRS TO IIVANTORIES OF ELAPORE FUNCHADEO

IT THE CUBAT ANY SEVERA! TENDS SCO TOE VSKKLUSLAN GOVERNHRNT BAS

LONE CHARGED THAT PIUR:, CASTRO HAS ARMITO TE JEBURN INT 14S

LACK THE FICESBARY IVIDUICE TO ENHEXT FEDTESI FOREILLY TO TEB DAS

OR OTHER INTEKTATICUAL BODIES (COM)

•. FINEZUMA: THE VILEELAN NATIONAL GUARD BAS INFORNALION

TEAT THE VEIZUSLAN CONVUNIST PARTY (PCY) PLANE TO CARSY OF "FiRI

SCAL TEHBORIST ATIVITIES BEGINNING 20 NOVEMBER

-ZIE REE LIVIIISS HAS fOT DISCLOSED. ELT

"WILL SCALE' PROBABLY IRANS (STINSIFICATION DE EE FRASANT KIRAN

CARPAIUS OF SABOTAGE AS

JUD HORDER BY TRE ARMED FORES iF

MATIORAL LIBERATION TEE IV'S FIRE PARAMILITARY ARIS

WE MOVEMENT OP TO AIT: UTIONARY LET CHO PUTS TO MLLERR A

STATEMENT CALLING FOR A " LIM OF TER RATION BLEATI :: •POTATO

FOR I DECEMBER

TEE FOY HOPES R:

PROPAGANDA TO LEAVE THE T ME SNEERUMAY METHIN: T

ic11784x

---

## Page 4

ONG

EDATERED419401

' NOtX"

# Skati

TRONE DIRECTOR

COMET:

INFO &

TO

"PAGE JOUR

82744

I THE SORE OR THE PCY, A VEAL COTERMINT POULD BE SUBECT TO OVERZURON

IT TITLE INITIC UGTISTS, LEVISE FE PICHIVOR HE POY TO

PACE T VE

S. COLGERIA: THE COLUHIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA (POC) HAS

VERTIALLY REEN DRIVEN URGERGRO ET TAN TERRORIST ACTIVITY OF

LISTIBT EXTREMIETS. DECAUTS DE POLICE REPRISALS AGAINST TERRORISTS, BORA

PIPE POC MENERRE ARN AFRAID TO DIATAIIUTE PROPAGANDA, PALT FALL

SLOGANS, HELL THE POC NATUPAPER. OR EVEN LEAVE THEIR RIDING PLACES FOS

CELL FRETTIGS.

7, GUATIMALA: GUATENALAN CHITI ON STATE PIRALIA RRPORTEDLE WILL

SOON AFFOLICE A TINITABLE WHICH YOULD CALL YOR INBTALLATION OF AN

CHO FINIT AID CONGERS AY 1 MAICH 1965. ACCORDIAtE TO THE

REPORTS, ELECTIONS FOR A COMSTITUSHT ASSENLY VOTE BE BALD IN LANDARY.

AND BUCTIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT AND COUGEESSNEN WOULD POLLON LATE IN

1904 AFTER THE ASSEMBLY CONCLUDED ITS WORK

WHEN PRESIDENT YDIGORAS WAS OUSTAD IF MARIH INOS CULUABL

PIRALTA INTUITO ESTIMAIN MCI A MILAN IN GANG CITA! ME

IN TIL WH14 04 THIRS SHOWIN PESTIVERECS

5219

---

## Page 5

LASSIFIED Y

UNiT

EXI

LATF. :

a INDEX

C MOONREX

"eir id?"

1:6

15 Row 53 50 41 2

FROM: :::

. c.'::

70

-PAGE FIVE-

CiTE CIR

82>44

PFSTRICTIONS ON POLITICAL ACTIVITY UNDRE HIS REGIKE HAT HAVE CONVINCK

HIN TO FOLLON THROUGH PERALTA TOLD THE BOUNCE OP CHE REPOET THAT

ER HAS ABSOLUTELY NO DESIRE TO PERPSTUATE HIS ADMINISTRATION, 35T IT

SENSO FOSSILI THAT EL MAY RUN FOR PRESIDERI

8. MIXICO: //EPORTS OF A BLOC PURCHABIIG AGENT TO ARRANGE

THE SALE C MEXICO'S ENTIRI VIRAT SUMPLES TO THE LUSE HAVE FALLE

THROUGH. E IS I PORTED, BOWYER; TO HAVE SUCCIDED IN SELLING

50,000 FONS I ON METICAN VERAT DO À PUNCHABAR FOR COMMUNIST CHINA.

ALSO, TIE FOSSIBILITY OF AN SYRITUAL ENTICAN-SC, LIT "ITAT DEAL IS NOT

ALTOGEIR PLANE IN FIST UN A REPORT THAT THE BOVIET COMRICAL

MATTER./ / (CON)

9 CUBA: JUAN MARINELLO, PECA SE TAVARA UNIVERSITY AND 1 LOSE

TIME LADER OF TEL PYEREVOLUTIONARY CUBAN COMUNIST PARTY WAS RECENILT

ERMOVED FROL HIS FOST AND APPOINTED AMBASSADDE TO DIESCO FRADQUALTERE

IN PARIS. JUAN MIER FEBLES DEPOTY MINISTER FOR HIGHER EDUCTION, HAg

AKEN NAMED PROVISIONAL RECTOR. 1 MIER, LIKE HIS PREDECESSOR. HAS A LOIG

HISTORY OE FOF ACTIVITIES

HELESLIDE DEFICES

1 ÷ o to 12

REPROACH. 11111

---

## Page 6

ORIG

UNITA

UrT

DATE T

to

202128/

215M 15Mr62V

TIG GEN

INO FIRE

TO "

INFO

PAGE 011-

CITE p4 827446

10. MORE OURS

NE ARCINTINA PRESIDENT

BALA INBANA TO LAITZATE ACTION BOOT TO ANNEL ARCINTINAE CHOLEU

CONTRACT VIN US ANO OTIEN YOUSICA CREPANISE, AS ENS PARTY HAS PHOMISET

DURESTZATYNE THE CONTRACTE TILL DE:

• DITCA

NOW ARCAUNT OF ITIOUO MATTE

DALLET ATTACKS AND TEN ADVERTS ARACTIONS TO

SIT FRICH TOULO CUT CIT SE AID IF ARGENTINA

ACTE AGAINET THE OIL COMMITES WITHOVY "SPERDY" COMPENSATION, (COSP)

END OF MESSACK

MARIOLAS AFARGES

katristi

SEE.

catS nature is Fauricia

•untaited

---

