# 104-10167-10119

## Page 1

104-10167-10119

Shei a

9 Septembas 1959

NOHORAIDUM FOR THE INCORD.

SUBJECT: Corvursation with Reichhard, & September

1. I phased Reichbardt in the afternoon and canght hin at

his office.

Be told me let be had talked with 3121 PANLEY on

the phone and will limch with hia part veak.

va si 1 told tea

I told him thas the cryptoyn he had asked for in his

3. I told Ralchbardt that ve had consulted lth State and

16-3

, Bogether vith seceptable proof of a repurity to meride

that support.

Reichards sil choci with sites, tie District

DIAZ processed in true name.

This 19 baing done as the pagease

of the Os/ilien Affaira Section, sinco paroling Mersos in psenda

uns a alstaso, and INS volid like to got that cianned up.

Dere

has boan a change in the boad of the Intlligance setup at Its

and the nou fy 1a sombat unsure of his ground do that OS, las

do trying so nato a les points with him. Clearing up tbe Maroos

Weir vill ald in this.

• I sold Refchbardi ve had recaived & letter Iron Carlos

EXISHiT to to estest that Her1o SADUVAL V111 be 12 Hars Et

Che end of the monts and i'set both carlos and tarlo vant. to came!

Miant so that tbey vould Dos hare to cono to lashiaston.

S. "I ERTO Rolenbarde tão 81t al RAVA 2616 (IN 21335) shiat

sAys that doso IANTICHEL al Santiago, Quba, and a rustod source,

sent angel audi to talk vith a coupio al station

offlears la invain.

ROS sald be 1s a seaber of the DIi: lans orgartsation and shat tau

Froup presents piars noring, but consolidatios.

help In Boilise up a socire channal at comunicallon with Rieardo

DE LA LORTS 1O MAnI, ROS' saa to 80 80 Minal sion: 1 Septembes

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Y/BR

---

## Page 2

to Bã0 LORI. Jalebbardi had no infesantion an a visitor artiring

tO 50O SDe DINE bOys end LUETE, I espialed tbat ve had estherised

HAYRIA tO DIA A CULOLI SaT lOrdlES LAttOrE tO LEtE fran R0S,

and would send bin the details.

6.

Balshhardt was andous for an so get Mrs. DIlI to the U.S.

because keroos is preening him bard and says she 1s 1ll Dran an

Distributions

1 - helchbard Coversation

1. 102

- Faress DIAZ Lans fIle

1 - Carlon CUISSAN fLie

_ STONET u

1/BR

---

