# 104-10172-10264

## Page 1

(104-10172-10264)

I ETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

desire

14 June 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

EIA Defector latch List

For The Secret Serrice

O'e. on 15 uped is at 1100 hour a ncer ing attended

I CDC; Mr. Jack

Friedlander!

SB; Mr. Negoy and Mr. Raculovich,

DCS; Dr.

Jerry

as held at the coe detaces to

Psychiatric Staff and Mr. Isiterdanosbof the CI Staff

discuss and decide which of

those defectors for whon we have a legal responsibility should

bo watched during the BREZHNEY visit.

The Psychiatric Staff,

SB and CDC had prepared

11sts of

those defectors and others whom they felt were un-

predictable, unstable and/or riolent.

The following are the

names of those submitted (including

comments made and the

agreed on position the Agency would take) :

Antanas SUTKUS (HENIGALE) was the

only defector lisied by the KGB on their

watch list.

BUTKUS works for the RFE in

He is noted as being non-violent

and not likely to cause trouble.

His wife

who is studying to be a medical

assistant

is bitter towards the Soviets but also un-

likely to cause trouble.

a publicized

defector.

It was decided to

routinely to the Secret Service.

LAVOROSKIY (AEGOLD) who is i

le is the former sea captain who is a heavi

drinker.

decided to pass his

ALLADE fle

TIBR

---

## Page 2

- 2-

D. PETROV GAELENIS)

He also is

a reformed drunk who is a straight A student.

On the 16th

of June (vacation) he will drive to

Cape Cod to fish and relax. No problems.

E. CHALLY|

travels with an anti-

Soviet

crowd.

He is unpredictable and has a

bad temper.

He shot

cab driver in Seattle

last year.

His name will be highlighted to the

• Secret Service.

F.

"TROFINOV (TEFISSION)

He is also a drunk and a passer of

Dad checks.

apparently with the retirement of

He ise fren ementouble ca shast

no contact.

has 03

When TROFINOV is drunk he calls

the Soviets at the UN Mission and talks of re-

defection.

He may possibly be in New York now

living with two homosexual friends. Notify the

Secret

Service.

G.

OGANESYAN• (AEGAIN

On 14 June 1973 Mr. Negoy notified me

O| that AEGAIN) was beins checked by one poifie in

Angeles.

This may be in connection with

something else.

H. "GOLENIENSKI (AEVISION).

He is a real

nut who aspires to the Romanoff crown.

Notify

Secret

Service.

watch list for the Secret Service (memo attached).

IRIBR

---

## Page 3

SECRET

- 3-

J.

GOLITZYN (NELADLE).

Note that Mr.

Osborne

and Dr. Charles Bohrer both agreed that

AELADLE be added to the warch list (aemos at-

tached).

Both Mr: Friedlander and I sherale

disagreed with this viewpoint.

requested that I check it out with ir. Angleton.

passed this to Mr.

later in the day.

1D & IBINBLI (PLEBE) an Albanian who lives

He is very anti-CIA but not anti-

Soviet. No passage.

L.

"VAGUINE (AECRUTCH

phycisist, very

stable who is doing well.

No passage.

Are to fies a Pica

space scientist in

relatives in

No passage.

N. ROCHANSKI (BEGOOD) IU polish who is in

Ho was recritited in

He works in

•& He is vindictive an

unpredictable.

He has a son in

TI BEGOOD DI

recently wrote President Nixon about his son.

He refuses to meet with CIA or the FBI.

decided to add his name to the list for the

Secret Service.

SEREGIN who CIA is in touch with came

to the U.S. under the Refugee Act.

CIA has no

responsibility but we are in contact with him in

New York.

His wife is in Russia.

His name will

be passed.

the Refugee ACT.

MARININ also came into the U.S. under

He has a wife in Bulgaria.

CIA

is in contact with him in Buffalo, New York. His

name will be passed.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

pride

-A-

Q.

"TERESHONOV who works for Radio Liberty.

He is stable.

No passage.

MYZYUK - An oceanographer who came ani

the U.S. through the IRC.

Is works for the log

Developand sobera No passage.

He is anti-Agency but very

stable and sober.

3.

Mr. Friedlander and I were in agreement on all the

cases.

He backed me up on AELADLE, AEDONOR and those other

defectors in whom we had invested large sums of money, time

and effort to conceal.

placed in the 201 files

AEDONOR

01

03

Emest 3. Tsikerdanos

SA/C/CI/OPS

Attachments: As stated

5IBR

---

## Page 5

1.

Dr. Charles Bohrer

Osborne's concurrence)

recomme=is (subject to Howard

that

the the sellening defectors

be added to the Brezhner visit naiot list:

nATOLLY GOLITAIN (ASLIOTE). Delusions of

grandeur;

expected much more fror. -*e U.S. Government that

fact received in terns

of perscal recognition.

trased, reclusive. May tale some actica to "get even, ""rus-

tunity to embarrass us.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

...

1. Howard Osborn's recommendations for the Brezhnev

"watch list":

Delete NOSSENKO. He's happily rehabilitated,

well disposed toward CIA and the USG, well' adjusted. Not

a threat:

b. GOLENIEWSKI.

Absolutely nutty.

Put him at

top of the list.

He hates the Soviet Government because

it's depriving him

of the Romanov crown jewels.

him on the list.

Anatolly GOLITZYN. Agree with Bohrer. Put

---

