# 104-10110-10292

## Page 1

104-10110-10292

IINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONL

INTERVIEW REPORT

56840

'ILE HO

007 657

NAME OF SUBJECT

BUSTOS-VIDELA, Charlotte

REASON FOR INTERVIEW

Retirement: CIA

30 Dec 1977

TEMPORARY ADDRESS

PERMANENT ADDRESS

po Box 3030

FALLS CHURCH: VA. 2204.3

PRESENT TITLE, GRADE AND DIVISION

LA

GS-14

DETAILS OF CONTEMPLATED FOREIGN TRAVEL

Europe

(dates not form)

BADGES. PASSES; KEYS AND CREDENTIALS

Home Tee Phone

281-2258

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do No! Reproduce

CLEARANCES '

Commo. 51

99

COVER

(Retirement under Cover n

ALL PHASES OF SECURITY WITH RESPECT TO SUBJECT'S RESPONSIBILITY, TO THE ORGANIZATION WERE FULLY AND COM-

PLETELY DISCUSSED.

2. SUBJECT WAS ADVISED THAT ALL INFORMATION RECEIVED AND COMPILED BY THE AGENCY IS OFFICIAL DATA.

PROPERTY OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THAT NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE HAS ANY PROPERTY RIGHT IN SUCH... INFORMATION.

3. SUBJECT WAS INFORMED THAT THE SECURITY REGULATIONS AND THE SECRECY AGREEMENT APPLY.

NOT. ONLY TO INTELLI-

INFORMATION: BUT, ALSO TO ANY STATISTICAL, ORGANIZATIONAL. OPERATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION OF

WHICH

HE IS COGNIZANT.

4. SUBJECT WAS INSTRUCTED THAT INFORMATION PERTAINING TO

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS.

SOURCES

AND METHODS PECULIAR

TO THE AGENCY MAY NOT BE DIVULGED TO PERSONS IN OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, EVEN THOUGN SUCH PERSONS ARE FULLY SECU-

RITY CLEARED WITHIN THEIR OWN DEPARTMENTS.

SUBJECT WAS INFORMED THAT SHOULD ANY QUESTION ARISE ON SECURITY MATTERS HE MAY COMMUNICATE WITH THE

AGENCY

FOR ADVICE AND GUIDANCE.

seemed to NEVA: Cures i fificeice, or austoations and knouledge of any incidente or activities

of persons which

03

DATE

/s/

SIGNATURE OF INTERVIEWER

30 Dicember 1977

AO79 1099 485-904500US.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY.

(11.96)

JIRR

---

