# 104-10186-10220

## Page 1

104-10186-10220

INFORMATION REPORT CINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

I1 CBC JAS NO ANd 914, the ENDAnIOn De reTelalon ol ThIrt In Any MMaDer DI No UnAUthOMarA garIOn la probibited sy into.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

coUNTRY Caba/Duminicar Repablic

SUNECT SIlTaTO LORA Vicento

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CS CI-316/02516-64

9 December 1964

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, Do Co

DATE ACQ. 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Coals 1S fficer man Sorred With the Cuban Intelligence

Serrice until April 1964.

Headquarters Commonte

The following report is one of a sertes containing personality

intormation provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no

action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Source identified a photograph of Silvano LORA Vicente

and said he

one of a group of fifteen Dominicans who

arrived in Cuba to undergo guerrilla warfare training.

Source saw this group of Dominicans while they were in

training schoul

and belleves that LORA was still in Cuba

at the

tine he left because documentation for onward travel

had not been prepared.1

Headquarters Connent:

1. See CS-311/07076-64, from another source for more

informatio:

On LORA

who returned

to the Domtnican

Republic

27 Sovember 1964, by ship, fron Spain,

France, Algeria, and possibly the Soviet indon.

6/5V

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INAVY

REP CINCLAR CINCSO E

(More: Field dresribustion

sorod ty " #".)

I AIR

IaNS

IN FORM ANON

REPORT

IE

3UE

171/SA/CI:5,

_il!

Chloesn

RIDI

INSA

CALSO SENT T

LEOR

S

16-10

NEREPORT

JL$-1827

NO PROJECT (AMMUGY1)

jCSC1-316/02516-6-0

ICOUNDIRATINDM

---

