# 104-10179-10036

## Page 1

104-10179-10036

" Mares dont

FEHRANDUM YOR THE RECED

RAY

RETARICES

MemoralLe

for due jecord aj GUla in, indi di feuruary iyéb,

1. Ao Indicatos do paragrepi joi be re:-,a:, de sonorandus. Varona abi

Hay-according to iDe undersiarlie

8e8:209 168l-ai: 6February 1901 Ma82178400

meting--nare t0 proceed te for jor on or aube d0 jesuurg. tiere tony Der vilr

5 March. A seetiri setueer into a

Au, du a birdi? "ATT COSA PLACe OT

2. For lba record, ChA ironedid d. M°. Carr EDiT be arCinIDeS bore:

For

the loogeat tim 18 bas

band fall 1501-98940 i-daalak f a sev necbantse au.n

as a sorolutionary council-ale vouls so ties to dalecoure

act committed tbro go fast

4883189130811

COUTBA.

asitably

1091019.1814.

il was tale tast Mr. Carr vould flii

4LI0 bIlls

partnor" bo bad boes fron the sureprior of lia picjest; se vould all be a per

face

in as much as de bas bot doed very autire in tie profect for the lassifour le

f17o, months.

Thus, Mr.:Carr vas Brend by Chlo:, WI Jurice too veerend Cl 26 February

to assumo the roll of primary segolator 16 tue estaticausest of a revoluclonary

council.

MI, OuTe serodd, be case so mushine,us mere he vas solly briefse sat

brought up to date by Me. Droller ani

3. Ou 6 February Uroller and Carr me vice Varoan int Rays Droller Introduces

Carr to Ray ao tDo Beodor aroup sen:or partoor vosa done emparions 1n la11a

America affairo and fluently 1o Spantos vuull grearly factiltate 1be nosore: 1000.

After chia latrosuction, Carr asd Droliar Drougro de une arsestion otilbo Cubass

the 5 Marco 1961 "Baltinore Go" story, vuice paro o fairly accurato

"port of

tbe current Degota:1008.

Toe Cubans vere elvines de rather etrong termate outair

utmost security in the future.

bad other porter ot de to a sia, Do 05 see bie lee that be

Ascale out as at 0 tet 7 at Cuteng program recan-

sit with

ces

A/DDP/A

DDP

c/4a/0

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use. Only

, Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

85 47

SECRET

ATT.

MEDWTEN

1.

Al the

B0pp: 76

1.*+

Cuei: +s 21.00.-90:09.

•:)"

'_got oo es

0 *.g8.

Fraga a! mma!

Frrga e 9 41-1

mho Telleueii ara ora i9

raellor.

seealt s. " rs!

ho + 8 00000

Tarp

ar I-ruid

pree 3a

?DIRA AASRAT

. ):+

"uet"'

the.

.'e ig t o poie

"" nae nn.9?

ryn:" 81 877999

eog9t)=

Arge.üt de

sran hs aits

154!?°

#o gnei94ip5" 001.

1=.

de3,

"y!'

4010

%.

*ye )9 p.:

o se98 pape t7

STaN'?

:1 49

A38

13H88-4e8 1

1'* ane

1: +-00 4;14

rigentdletiry

т..)?

8:p+ 9134

179}

nat hy

nles.

тe 1198. 10

da reeeape nl ayine.

erout:t

tao 150p-99?

#025.98031 919

T. tree

matodttuo da exilo

D.

ieet it

grgyt gu d

14%.p

2=9834

Corr artes

-f. 595

F4P09A!

704219

t 18 Ve

car 1...a?a.

1 ga

ap-pn às

Sumatly

i, mp4

$098,,0!

+ hhe

110P:r.

derl tacit he genmoll

tiw re 41:11mmte3

c:

3r12t1e)

CI9:lID

= tu

08-11.

₫3e9

S0 .

• del t 6. prr.s.

Preulserpal Fyrrl.

S1 x á

Cary was

"ra?"

:* at

1 *

ce.dipo

" ess poa

be

acomm.ai sne

gont: Yy 1*9

A por

oatheye den no neLureosso

the gipart l'tmoo: Yea

"eant?

wontr .npordaymom..d..

guppe poy -911aele.

Tho Rmasnan: mill ihan dlece foriy trf meabere ef tle courng

Aleost 078--5893.

+1 " 10-68098

moae, Mae the 99her tore

tradomys ++411 44-38-83879

1903--500

•en taooiat-nal jereriu.nd 1o 4e

0n f0.alA pnyidiin) 19 0051-9.

mcoizziti iham snula do lun agersrrt nereo do tha "omines:

Fard d.. d'0116in9'0e

"W"D

f pres.ro

•trnoro

. cth t

rapropedne1?p1944-119499

neipe!r

anapendly hAUe FCIY PIACHLIUG

11or919"%.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

- 2

Part 3. A cochnieal cabino connered of tron 6 10 10 ente

arithoue portall to slit elect by the

Marlous "soctora" and arpipe l the presidene.

These mabore unald dras un pragueled lens, ofe..com

suboisero to the "Larisintire Cablrat" for nooreral

H. MUSIC MINUSE.

A MinistAs of lofane Will so seioci

neely to the President prior to poine Inco Cuco.

I. MILISTER CE FOREIGN RELATIONS. A MITIATe of Foredon folations

silll also to seloctod frenly by the Prealdent prior to polne,

into Cute.

2. PARFRAM OR PLATFORM

A four-re Preran or Platfor wich FARONA and RAY suld should

only be onsidered "a rough draft" was elven to Cary for Me Inina-

Elon. A surmary to attached.

Ites of the progren as a wholm, on shich agreement as jet has not

been reached are ino folloning:

A. Netionalization

or Publie Wiseles. Not setved as you as to

another rolephone and electre comparles should le nationalizod

soneral aurorment on need to nationalise "obras publicas" .

transportatim and corminicationg facilitles.

"Cubantration" of the fanks. VAROiA 10 arainst requiring all

deposit banks to he Cuber..:

RAY 1s in favor.

RAY, however, not

opposed to forelen banke havine apeneles in the country a1 th

all che rights and privileges, except the richt to accept

deposite.

•Agrari an

note neroement except for

of. "limitatt

phrese shich Cary win unable

'explain ru

supposes they meant: the

De sone narduun limitacions on land that can be held by ony

one person or 11m

D.

Pable Servants.

RAY Mento to purre all CASTRO people fro

the 11at of elvia servants.

VARONA does not think a "plank"

on civil servanto nonda be incluted in a platsom of princinos

and protran:

S. ILITARI MATTES

RAY and VARONA, according to Cary.

were undred in their shirtine or

the military aspecte of the oparalis arainas CASTRO,

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

A. Both teal no have sent "undesirablo" peoplo lo the camps and

Irat thie cannot furter be tolerates.

Focruitire must be

done by cutans under prente personal desimatod. by the Irente.

"Ise»" must stop recruiline, althouch ho lo face to indicate

what the soods are. (Tony sald ill quit it recruiting nos

contralled by FRD.)

B.

Both Inaist that COl. Manuol VARELA Castio bo namod as Boad of

the camp and that Juan CONSUBORA be firen work 1n a milltary

capa de bo too ta, sue tha pronone cem consendora, should.

RAT. complained that "nothing lo being done to eupply the

fightong in the Racambrays.

D. A "able statement" must bo made that no Ratlatianos in ll be

taken 1a.

I. Cortain recruiting personnol (Napo)1 has tbe names) should be

remered fron their positions.

RAI mado an "Impassionod" plea for poaltire help from the United

States for his croap.

Mentioned noed of boat and an increase (by

hia ercup) in psychologieal varfare activities.

RAY t'd Carr he vants to pot aray on 1 March for Mand. Bo said

ho w111 5iro us 46 to 72 hours to put this matter "on a lovel of

fInal declalon or resolution. "

SECRET

---

