# 104-10104-10350

## Page 1

104-10104-10350

SEGRET

1 March 1968

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECTS

Garrison and the Kennedy Aris almation

Interview of Garrison on Dutch IV by

Willinca Ie Oltrasma (201-155221)

REFERENCES: A. Joint State-USIA cable, ICM S53,

HAQUE - 3981, 24 February 1968

BIT

3870 HIt 59064.

27 February 1968

SUMMARI

Garrison appeared on Datch TY on 22 Febranty 1968. He

continued = la inch encalated → ble attack upon CLA in « percuralv

performance. There da a possibility of = loitow up program in

«Halland and replays elsewhere la EncopoiCedent Interulent

William! Oltmans, lo & Dutch pro Concourint, although he pretend

not to be, and a homonesun who neemn to be or to have been intimnte

with ex-Preaident Sakarno of Indonesia.

Consideration is being siren to forwarding to the Station at

The Fingue lovert derogatory Information about Carriaos from the U.S.

press and TV/radlo interviewe for relente to CA nisets there.

DETAILS

1. References atnte that on 22 February 1968 Garrison

appeared on Dutch TV (Dutch Televisten Foundation. NTS) during

prime time for one hour (time not stated), Neither reference explaime

whether Garrison travelled to The. Hague or whether the show was

taped in the U.S. and sent on tape to Holland. The Dutch desk belleves

that the latter 1e true.

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON

7193

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

SECRET

-CHOUP 1.

Excluded from autematic

daungrading and

declassification

TOTAL DENIAL

---

## Page 2

Z. The following were Garrison's charges:

a. Kernedy was murdered becasse he favored n

deconto detrimantal to the inbereate of the toillitary-

Industrial complex"

b. Kennedy was the victim of a ClA plot. CIA

has made common cause with the millary Indontrial

establinhment becuse of a vooted interest in mnintaiaing

the cold war.

c. CIA la comaltted to the land war in Ali,

wheroas one of President Kennedy's lant order! directed

• reduction of troope there.

d. A U.S. prenident who brings the U.S. to the

brink of peace will nutfer Kennedy's fate.

& Awked why the program had been designed for

& curopean audience, Carrion said that the growing

Inílvence of CLA on U.S. media had made it Impossible for

him to be beard in bla own country.

3. Reference A says Garrlion, calm and compored. wha

mufflelently credible to elicit rather faverable reviews from generally

well Intermed Dutch newspapers.

"Several Dutch viewers aleo

commented on the credibility of 7 bla person and presentation.

Likely that the NIS will try to sell this program to other Europeas

stations. "

4. Reference B says that the Dutch presa was generally favorable

and that many comments noted he seemed logical and in control of bia

facto. The majority opinton among Embassy, USIS, and CIA personnel

[at The Hague]is that he seemed credible to a large propartion of the

Dutch viewers. (SYMPATHIZER 17Jíeela that the program created an

all-time low in the U.S. Image in the Netherlands. Dutch IV alluded

to a third part of the interview, till to como.

5. Garrison was interviewed by Willlam L. Oltmans. A

synopats regarding Oltmans follows:

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

I. DPOB 10 June 1925 Hulses, The Netherlands.

B. Studded at Yale 1950 but expelled for unitated

Thereafter worked briefly an correspondent

for U. P. and for Dutch paper De Ielegraal but damlared

by both for unmtated cause.

d. An FBI report of 1960 utates that he calle

blmaelf anth-Communiat but expressed the vlewe "of s

great admalrer of comsauadam"."

.. *

so An INS report of 1961 diate him address for

1956-1961 As 118:09 83rd Ave Kew Gardens Long bland

New York.

I. A ClA report el 1961 liste him as a UN

correspondent then plarning an unponnored trip to East

Germany, Poland, Crechoslovabla, and Hungary. Dutch

correspondents sald that thay had yet to nee a mtory written

by him. When he applied for membership in the UN

correspondente absociation, he was unable to produce &

wlagle elipping in support of the application: He travele

extensively, He has excellent contacte in all Communist

countries Including Cuba.

£- The Haague Post of 15 April 195l, with a

natlowwide readership, characterised Oltmans as an

intimate friend of the then President of Indonesia, Sukarno,

and an having tried for five yoars to arrange contact.

for Sukarno In Holland.

h. An FBI report of 24 November 1961 reatates

the above and adds that he had been separated of divorced

from his Americas wife 18 monthe earlier because "he ls

not a ran". He was liviag with a male at the time of the

report.

1. An FBI report of 1 February 1962 Includes an

Intervlew with the ex-wife Frleda Bieling (she had remarried).

3

SERTET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

She said that bet ex-husband and President Sukarno

were close friends and that he wrote to Sukarno at

least once s week threnghout their marriage. Around

1957 whe and Oltnans lived at the Paramount Hotel,

New Terk, fox i Kioe: The Indoneelan geversment

padd their hill, which wan more than $300. She met

Sukarna throngà her husband in May 1959 in Copenhagen.

At the time of the introduction Sularo cleared the

room of all advinors and bodyguaris, then said to her,

"So you are Frieda, Well, lam lickle." He told her

"phat he looked forward to receiving his weekly messages

from her husband and that he always read them just

before he went to ninep while he was fa bad. " She maid

that ten minutes after her wedding ceremony with

Oltmans was over, the was alone. Her father. #he

sald, learned that Oltmas had & palice reeord fos

molesting young boys in Amaterdar. She obtained a

Mexican divosce in 1960. She suid that Oltmmus 16 at

leant intellectually & Communiat and belleven Communan

to be the econanie lyutem of the future.

1365, 24 October 1966, saya Oitmans

wrote pro-Lumumbe articles in 1960, vinited Cuba in 1962

and perhaps 1963, developed Islendly relation, wire...

Chicorn it The Flague and may have Visited China In 1964.

In August 1966 be applied for a Chicorn visa at The Hague.

k. An FBI report of 18 May 1967 maye that Oltman

clated to have written for Ramparts an article about CLA

in Indonceia. No such article has been found.

6. Reference B requented background Information about

Garrison's mental health and performance as a public official. A

summary of derogatory information from overt U.S. media for the

past year (March 1967 to March 1968) has been compiled in response.

A decision will soon he made as to whether part or all of thin material

may be sent to| the Station]ior une by Dutch CA assete.

Son.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

Diatribution:

Ortg - DCI

1 - DDP, ADDP

- Ewx/Netherlande

1 - Office of General Counsel

1 - Office of Security

1 - C/C. DC/CI

1 • RA Chrone

1 - DP reporte file

5

ENTE

----..

....

---

