# 104-10070-10233

## Page 1

104-10070-10233

8 Aug 69

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Subject: CROONDLINGER, Martin

1 I discussed Subject's impending arrival to the Irvine, Cal Noth

Conference in Sept 59, vich Eon Shine of the DeS(he is now in the

Esut Wesü Euchang: Offica) Sgecifically I asked bim 4) the ernet naca

end dates vi the Conference and B) curent status of Subjects processing

co abbend this conference.

2. I advised Don that ve bad no operational interest in Subject so Suck,

but thet he night come to the abtention of the intel conmity acter

ne arrives since his case seems to be unique, i.e. an Puerican voo

becane e Soviet citicen end then comes out to tira attend e to: Sponsored

Internetional conference. Don said there were otbers: life thod, and be

¡ seemed to reneuber heszing sonething abouc Subjeco. La witz choce and advise.

3. I mentioned that this case may not develoy lavo anything at all, but

ma if Subject should redefect or compes to our attention thru

otber channels, it would behoove us to have collected all evailable fects

I DESTROY AFTER USE

Don called me back to edvise

tact he checked with the State Dept and found

that they were not yet defided whether or not, to grent Subject a visa, however

"Eve had an ops interest they would consider it. I replied ue had no

$9217

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MEVORANDUN FOR THE

ECORD:

Subject: GREENDLINGER, Mertin

1 I discussed Subject's impending arrival to the Irvine, Cal Math

Conference in Sept 69, with Don Shine of the Dos(he 1s now in the

Bast West Exchenge Office) Specifically I asked bim A) the exact name

and detes o

the Conference and 3) current status. of Sisjecü's processing

to attend this

conference.

2. I advised Don that

a bad no operetionel interest in Subject as such,

but that he night cone to

be attention of the intel community enten

he arrives since his case

55

to be unique, i.e. an beericon 13

becane s Soviet citiger

and then

ones out to to attend e Ust encasored

Internetiongt cos

me. Dos 90id 5b

ceoned 30 seasio

ring scrothing cbout

Gubject, to ma contin 30r02.

3. I nontapeed too chio coso 20y 20% coral02 1250 3

aer chornels, is toald bunpova us to have colderdal all ei

÷ 19s63.

Isn called ne beus to navise thab he checked with the State Drys idl found

that they were not yot decided bether on not to urant Sider ter; hotover

if we had an ops interest they would consider it. I replied un 121 -9

special interest in him and vould not vant enyone to albe specia aceuptions

for ma Subject on our benels. Don also stated that the Conterance in

question is " Decisions, Problems and Group Theory', 2l Aug -5 Sept 69,

in Irvine, Cal. Subject 19 not en official invotee. Dan will advice his

Own Has in case Subject gets his visa and shows up to the Conference.

REPRODUCTIONS

STOCY

AFTER USE

MICROFICHE

Conf on Algentm

30r0

3m -

Unet Cal

16 S207

69:

Craps, now

Campio

---

