# 104-10177-10033

## Page 1

104-10177-10033

DATE

To .

ACTIONI

INFO.

262 B0/B0/80/

12 AUG 1959

CK/ Bl

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DIRECTOR

HAVANA

ME Filing ichert sou

to teart tale Dai119

WIS (MR, MCAULEY, WA, NOTIFICO AT. 2045 TO AUG. )

HeF. in, le suits ir take care

Del, D/DCI, DO/P,

COP, A/DO/P/P, FL, FI/ROM 3*s*

PP 2, PP/PRO, PP/PROP, PP/PMO; -00/1510/CL, 2 03.

., 01101-1

FÉTURN TO CIA

ROUTING

Background Use Only

$

Do Not Reproduce

AuG 1I

00

42359

REC'O LADLE SECT.

PRIORITY

TO PRITY DIR

FYI :

INFO

PRITI

CITe

IN 12038

HAVA 2523

1. REPORTS EMANATING FROM ABROAD TO EFFECT CASTRO ASSASSINA.

TION ARE FALSE, CASTRO. WAS ON ISLE OF PINES SATURDAY & AUGUST

• WITH JUAN ALMEIDA AND SEEN THERE. BY OUR AIRATT. CASTRO RETURNED

HAVA NIGHT 8 AUGUST, AIRATT WHO RETURNED HALA MORNING 1D AUG

REPORTED ALL QUIET ON ISLE OF PINES, RUMORED LANDINGS ISLE OF

PINES APPARENTLY WITHOUT FOUNDATION. AIRATT ENCOUNTERED MAXIMUM

SECURITY PRECAUTIONS ON LANDING CAMPO, LIBERTAD.

2.. NO CONFIRMATION RUMORED LANDINGS ELSEWHERE SUCH AS PINAR

DEL RIO AND ORIENTE.

3. 26. JULY ORGAN REVOLÚCION' REPORTS ARREST OVER 1 DES

PERSONS MAINLY FORMER ARMY OFFICERS AND PERSONIEL

4. WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN REPORTED BE IN LAS VILiAS

PROVINCE ACCORDING"ODENVY SOURCE. STORY CIRCULA TING THAT ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO HEAD SEGUNDO FRENTE ESCAMBRAY MAY HAVE TIPPED

OFF FIDEL OF CONSPIRACY.

END OF MESSAGE

÷ :

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRÖMIBITEDI.. Copy Na

135;

---

