# 104-10276-10220

## Page 1

104-10276-10220

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 . .

(44 USC 2107 Note)

WW 5324A6/400T7

SPATCH

Chies, nh/ Sa

FROM

•Chie: Hips Ones, or stair it

SUBJECT

Chief of stettere l'exise still

ANP00::/1 Target Aralysis Stud

ACTION REQUIRLD RUTRENCES

XCi

ANTO TO 1A31NINA

NO LATERING SEQUIRED

CALT QUALITIS DESE

•CAS NOGE LADLIIAO

.

i S.30 in

SEP

4 1154

1. Transmitiod under, separate cover, and in spli: transmission,

is a target analysis study or subject prepared by Algerion 0. FORTYUNE:

2. The principal sources used are the following:

&. LINVOY

bo

LITAHI/2

LIERODE.

LIONION.

d. LITAIWT

'A"SPRAWL/ 2

1. (зуauс/2

ANSTONE/1

Station files vere used for identification of A:P00:/1 contacts.

willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

Distribution:

Study, w/s/c (split trans)

1 - WD,

att - 1

CROSS REFERENCE TO

C3 duri

DISPATON STRARI ANO NUMBER

INDEXX

50211-24050

CLASSIFICATION

SECREE

- 3÷4253

DATE

(12 Aurust 1964)

• MCS FEE NUMBEN

50-5-16

---

## Page 2

104-10276-10220

Altachment

HMMA 24080

201-334253

1. NAME: VEGA Percz, Manuel Eugenio, allas "MA ROOS. "

2. DOB: c. 1919, also reported as c. 1912.

ram.

3. POB: Luyano, Havana, Cuba.

MICROFILMED

SEP 41964

DOC. MICRO. BER.

4. MARITAL STATUS: Single.

5. CITIZENSHIP: Cuban

,: "

o. PASSPORT DATA: Cuban Diplomatic Passport Number D/62/165, Diplomatic

Visa Number 314, dated 21 March 1962, issued by the Mexican Embassy in Cuba.

7. ETHNIC ORIGIN: Cuban

8. OTHER NAMES USED: Subject has been known to usc "MARCOS" as a pseudonym.

Subject is called "Manolo" by close members of his family.

9. CURRENT POSITION (Non-Intelligence): Diplomatic Attache, Cuban Embassy,

Mexico City, Mexico. Took over his duties officially on 3 April 1962.

10. CURRENT POSITION (Intelligence): Chief of Cuban Intelligence in Mexico as of

April 1964.

11. RELATIVES:

a. Father: No record.

b. Mother: "Fnu" PEREZ de Vega. The name of Subject's mother Is not avallable,

However, the Station has been able to gather some insight into this person by

carefu! analysis of material pertinent to her son.

(1) Sra. PEREZ de Vega is apparently an old line Communist, judging from

the comments made by her sons in correspondence. They referred to

her rather proudly as the "old communist" who in spite of her sentimental

ties to her sons and daughters submerged her personal feelings because

she knew that they were contributing to the "cause, " and therefore had to

leave home.

AtticHMMA

• CS COPY

SEbne

C..

TAus 6470: 3542533

---

## Page 3

104-10276-10220

Attachment

HMANLA 24080

201-334253

Page 2

c. Spouse: Subject Is single.

d. Children: Subject is nor married.

e. Others:

(1) Brother; Carlos FCOMEZ Vega

• Residence. . Calle 11, Number 306

'A" y Pocito,

Lawton, Havana, Cuba

Comment: This individual was named Administrator of a mine in Alto

Songo in Oriente Province, Cuba, in 1962.

(2) Sister: Dulcenia VEGA de Garrido

Residence: Avenida 41, Number 5609, Apartment 8

Marianao, Havana, Cuba

Comment: This is based on LIBIGHT/LIMUD information.

(3) Brother-in-law: Francisco /GARRIDO, same address as above.

Comment:

Interpretation of LIBIGHT/LIMUD information would seem

to indicate that this person is the husband of Dulcenta mentioned above.

(1) Nephew: Emigdio VEGA Calero

15) Meter or no ran Vot Apartment 2

Vibora, Havana, Cuba

Comment: Teenage nephew of Subject. He was beginning high school

in 1962. A great admirer of Subject.

(6) Niece: Zenaida "LNU"

Comment: Approximately 10 years old. She is in the fifth grade of

elementary school.

(7) Brother: Dilio VEGA Perez

Comment: This individual is in Cuba. Possibly married to a woman

named "Julia." He seems to be an ardent revolutionary judging from

his comments regarding the Socialist Revolution of Cuba.

12. LANGUAGES: Spanish

13. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION:

a. Apparent age: 45

b. Height: Approximately 6º

1P.2

---

## Page 4

104-10276-10220

Attachment

HIMA 240S0

201-334253

Page 3

C. Build: Heavy, sunken chest, stooping shoulders, quite heavy around the

waist.

d. Hair: Dark brown, wavy.

e. Eyes: Light brown, heavy eyebrows.

f. Complexion: Fair

8. Shape of face: Round face, thin lips, has an oriental look.

h. General appearance: Subject looks like a perambulatory duckpin. He walks.

slowly and bends slightly forward as he walks. This appearance is

accentuated by kis stooping shoulders and long, scrawny neck. The forward

tilt of the neck and his tight-lipped appearance give him the Impression of

Dress: Sloppy dresser. Several sources have commented on his absolute

lack of refinement in picking clothes. He never seems to be able to match

his apparel (I. e., clashing colors - red, green, brown).

Outstanding features: The most outstanding feature is his manner of

walking, described above.

Identifying marks:. Wide gap, readily noticeable, bewzen upper front teeth

on the right side.

14. PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, HABITS:

a. PERSONALITY: Subject has been characterized by different sources as

well as some of his associates as a typical, uneducated, uncouth bum. He

is a sly individual, very suspicious by nature, a slow thinker, and not

very intelligent.

(b) lazy, (c) sloppy, (d) slow, and (3) colorless.

one of the most able officers of the Embassy.

CP. 3

---

## Page 5

104-10276-10220

Storet

Attachment

HMMA 240S0

201-334253

Page 4

c. HABITS: Subject reportedly has the annoying habit of never facing the

persori to whom he is talking; instead he will usually stare at the ground.

He reportedly carries a gun.at all times. One source described him as

a "pistolero type" who would not hesitate to make use of his firearm if

provöked. The Station is not aware of any instance where he has pulled

a gun on anvone since his arrival in Mexico. On 4 August 1962, Subject

was disarmed at the Mexico Cicy International Airport, by Mexican Federal

•Judicial Police. He protested vociferously but meekly surrendered his

15. CURRICULUM VITAE: Subject has been identified as a former instructor at

the G-2 School in Cuba. Subject reportedly conducted firearms training and

intelligence courses.

Subject reportedly received intelligence training in Prague, Czechoslovakia,

sometime prior to 1963.

Subject was accredited to Mexico as a Diplomatic Attache, Cuban Embassy

n Mexico City. He took over his duties formally on 3 April 1962, replacing

rogelto RODRIGUEZ Lopez, 201-332665

Subject was also identified on 3 July 1962 as Press Attache of the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico, and as Deputy Chief of G-2 for Mexico.

Subject has performed the following travel, outside of Mexico, during the two

tours of duty which he has served in Mexico:

*(1) Arrived Mexico City from Havana 2 April 1962.

\(2) Departed Mexico City for Havana 6 January 1963.

(3) Arrived Mexico City from Havana 13 February. 1963.

(1) Departed ivexico City for Havana 13 April 1963.

(5) Arrived Mexico City from Havana 21 April 1963.

X(6) Departed Mexico City for Havana 3 November 1963.

(T) Arrived Mexico City from Havana, c. 16 April 1964, documented now

as Third Secretary of Embassy, and Chief of Cuban G-2 in Mexico.

Subject resided at the Hotel Agnes, Saltillo, #67, Colonia Condesa, Mexico,

D. F., Mexico, when he first arrived in Mexico®

Subject now resides at the Cuban Embassy compound.

Shamef

11 Av84

---

## Page 6

104-10276-10220

Attachment

HMMA 24080

201-334253

Page 5

16, INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION: Subject is a member of Cuban Intelligence,

and, to be more specific, he is in all probability a member of the Direccion

General de Intelligencia (DGI, the foreign arm of CIS. It is perhaps

Significant that Subject gave the following address in Habana where he can be

reached while he is in Cuba:

Instituto Cultural de Amistad con los Pueblos (ICAP)

17, Vedado, Habana, Cuba

Subject returned for what appears to be a second tour of duty in Mexico,

documented now as a Third Secretary of the Embassy, and reportedy Chief

of Cuban Intelligence for Mexico. His address in Cuba is listed as:

Calle 11, Number 306

Entre "A" y Terraz:

Lawton, Havana, Cuba

Telephone: 99-42-82

17. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY: It is difficult to dichotomize Subject's intelligence

and non-intelligence activities, since he obviously utilizes his overt position as

a Cuban diplomat to cover his clandestine activity. The narrative that follows

describes the total extent of his "known" activity with indications of covert

modus operandi where appropriate.

a. Subject was reportedly in charge of Security in the Cuban Embassy in

Mexico. The record reflects at least one case where Subject had one of

his fellow employees under surveillance, June 1962)

b. Subject was administering locally the "trainee program" of Latin American

youths going to Cuba, The record has confirmed cases where the Mexico

City Office of Prensa Latina, and specifically Edmundo JARDON Arzate,

201-163987, steers the prospective trainees to Subject. Subject calls them

to the Embassy where applications are filled out and these in turn are sent

to Havana for vetting. The reply from Havana normally takes 15 days.

(1903-64)

c.

The Statior also has on record confirmed cases where the Guatemalan

d. The activities described above merge nicely with Subject's overt activity

of issuing courtesyvisas and taking care of persons invited to visit Cuba

As part of the Cuban Government's friendship program. In the case ol

BIHUB/1, reported in detail in HABA- 12563, 19 August 1963, Subjeci

: IT

P.5

---

## Page 7

104-10276-10220

Attachment

HIMMA 24080

201-334253

Page 6

acted rather confused since he obviously found himself in unfamillar

ground - a departure from set procedures - when BATUG/1 sought to go

to Cuba without an invitation.

de Defensa Prò-Cuba).

18. CONTACTS:

a.. CUBANS (non-officials):

(1) EMUNOZ, Dayid Childhood friend of Subjeck, Lives at Lawion,

Havana, Cuba,

(2) /CUTIERREZ, LIliam: Resides at Avenue 30, Number 5405, el 54

y 36, La Habana, Cuba. This individual is probably a young lady either

In high school or college. She is a member of the Cuban Communist

Youth, and belongs to a cell at her school,

(3) MFRAGA Perez, Celio:: A Cuban Foreign Ministry employee, who

proposes to VEGA that they establish a barter system between them-

selves. The writer will send cigars, Cuban booze, et cetera, in return

for VEGA getting some spare parts for the writer's old automobile.

(4) (MARTINEZ, Julio: Cuban, who, on his return from the United States,

wanted to talk to VEGA about his political plans, but wondered if the

Cuban Embassy was under surveillance. VEGA assured him that it

was all right to visit the Embassy and that no one would stop him.

b. CUBAN OFFICIALS (non-E miassy):

•. (1) EGARCIA Romero, Guillermo: Cubana de Avlacion employce in Mexico

City. This person keeps Subject informed on the status of travel

arrangements made for people invited to visit Cuba.

(2) TSERRA Robledo, Candida Clementina: 201-59787, Directora Nacional,

Circulos Infantiles, Federacion de Mujeres Cubanas, whose business

amount of travel throughout Latin America spreading Castro's gospel,

(3) JARDON Arzate, Edmundo: 201-162987, Prensa Latina Office, Mexico

City. This individual is part of the channel used in Mexico City to steer

---

## Page 8

104-10276-10220

Attachment

HAALA 240S0

201 - 334253

Page T

"trainees" desiring to go to Cuba into contact with VEGA. The record

is quite incomplete but he almost serves the role of a "spotter."

• (4) *CARPENTIER Belmont, Alexander "Alejo": 201-341217, Director of

the Cuban National Editorial; Vice President of the National Council

of Culture; Vice President of the Cuban National Union of Writers and

Professor of History. of Culture in the School of History, University of

Habana (DOI-1953). He is the Cuban representative to UNESCO. He

makes it a point to get rogether with VEGA to discuss a "few things"

whenever he ls in town.

/(5) FGARCIA Perez, Mariano: 201-33-4094, Cuban Consul in Merida,

Yucatan. His address is listed as Calle 22, Number 203b, Merida,

Yucatan. The implication is present in one conversation that GARCIA

has some type of name checking facility through which VEGA runs

his "trainees."

•(6) FPOSADA Torres, Jose Luis: 201-334215, Cuban Consul in Vera Cruz.

VST) *RAMIREZ, Angel "Tato": (201-

), Cuban Courier. The record

"implies" that this individual may be a courier entrusted with GOC

sensitive correspondence.

_(8) *ROJAS Mendoza, Jorge: 201-337059, Chief of Cubana de Aviacion li

Mexico. This is the person with whom Subject deals directly in

arranging passage (frec) for persons going to Cuba as "guests."

Y(9) * ALFONSO, Carlos Luis: (201-

), Cubana de Aviacion employee

or official in Havana, Cuba.

(10) MAZOLA Collazo, Ciraldo: (201-

), Director of Cuban Institute

for People's Friendship (ICAP). Subject deals directly with this individual

regarding the travel of "trainees" to Cuba, or officlal guests of state.

MAZOLA has a private linc which VEGA uses to communicate with

him, and it does not go through the ICAP telephone switchboard. The

number of this telephone is 32-35-21. In the absence of MAZOLA,

Subject deals with one Humberto HERNANDEZ; who seems to be the

chief of ICAP's Traffic Section. This section apparently regulates

and controls travel of foreigners invited to visit Cuba.

i Came o. waste: (Consular, Ormor Alien Vice Consul In

c.. MEXICANS:

(UST SAENZ Cepeds Pedro: (201-

), Mexican, a student leader and

known agitator at the UNAM law school. He has been a Cuban Embassy

TP.T

---

## Page 9

104-10276-10220

Attachment

HMMA 24080

201-334253

Page 8

•

contact, if not an agent, since 1960. Subject was 24 years old in

1960.

ESPINO, Alfonso: (201-

), a contact of the Cuban Embassy

since 1962. He is also active in MLN acitivities. It was through this

contact that VEGA and other Cuban Embassy officials were attempting

to find out what Mexican regulations applied in order to get a permit

to operate.an SW radio in Merida.

The ostensible reason was to contact

Cuban ftshing vessels operating off the coast of Yucatan.

(3) F* CARRILLO, (Dr.): Identifles himself as President of the Grupos

Amigos de Cuba in San Luis Potosi. This person is probably Identical

with Dr. Jorge O. CARRILLO, who resies at Madero Number 375,

San Luis Potosi, SLP, Mexico.

He is on the Cuban Embassy mailing

list as of December 1962. It is belleved that he is the same person

who in 1944 lived at Bolivar Number 7, Apartment 10, Mexico City.

At that time, he was a member of the Assoclation of Friends of the

USSR, according to an Association membership list taken from the

Communist Party of Mexico headquarters In 1944. In May 1964, this

person was reportedly head of an MLN committee in Mexico.

(1) | *ESCAMILLA Alcocer, Mercedes: Long time participant in pro-

Castro activities. She had at one time a position in the Mexican

magazine "IMPACTO." For some reason, possibly an open code

arrangement, she identifies herself to Subject, when requesting a

contact, as "Doctora," She may be Identical with the female who

frequently calls and says that she is "the doctor but that to Subject

she is not the doctor."

(5)

(ESPEJEL Perez, Raul: (201-

), Member of Relations Section of

the Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN) and reportedly a PCM

member.

Subject is a very important contact of VEGA. ESPEJEL

arranges Mexican delegations to Cuba, Is continually asking if his

"things" have arrived from Cuba, and asks for meetings to discuss

things. Contacts cover the period early 1962 to the present.

(6) T GUTIERREZ Lopez, Alfonso (Ing.): 201-351942, Chief of the Cuban

Petroleum Institute in Habana, Cuba, and a member of the Mexican

Marxist party, Partido Popular Socialista,

(7) *D'ANTON, Francisco: (201-

), probably identical with Francisco

DANTON Guerrero, Secretary General of the Student Council of

Preparatory School Number 6, Mexico, D. F.

(8) YORTIZ Pullido, Fnu: An employee of Zuniga Martinez y Compania,

S. C., Agencia Aduanal, Pasco de la Reforma, 444, Second Floor,

telephone numbers: 11-29-38; 11-29-60; 11-69-95. This firm was

doing business with the folish Embassy in 1959.

11 Any'€4 (P. 8

---

## Page 10

104-10276-10220

..*

Attachment

HAIMA 24080

301-334253

Page 9

(9) T* CASA LECHUGA: Believed to be identical with compiny owned by

Rafael *LECHUGA Ruiz, located at Cordoba 73, Mexico, D. F. This

Is a used car dealer firm; VEGA has recently purchased 16, 000 pesos

worth of spare parts from this firm. The owner of the firm has an

interesting background. Rafal LECHUGA Ruiz, DPOB: 24 .November

1906, Mexico City, was suspected of being a Nazi agent in Guadalajara,

Jalisco, in 1943.* He was pro-Nazi in sympathy. On 12 May 1915,

the District Judge of Guadalajara issued an order for his arrest for

the embezzlement of 7, 000 pesos received in payment for cigarétte

Ilghters which he falled to deliver, LECHUGA reportedly paid a 4, 000

peso bribe on 16 May 1945, and thus avolded detention.

In 1915, he

was engaged in smuggling automobites out of the United States in

violation of the Export Control Act. Customs agents in Laredo seized

a 1942 Cadillac which he had endeavored to bring into Mexien without

a permit. LECHUGA did succeed in smuggling a 1946 Chrysler into

Mexico withuut a permit.

The delivery boy from Casa Lechuga is a Negro. He could possibly

be the Fnu PICHARDO wich whom VEGA deals very frequently.

(10) MORA CEPEDA, Dolores de la: (201-

), Mexican newspaper

woman from Guadalajara. This is a strange case indeed.

Subject and

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ. Lopez make arrangements to meet her clandestinely

and cther. members of the Cuban diplomatic mission mect her overtly.

As a matter of fact, she is frequently seen visiting the Cuban Embassy.

She is a crass opportunist and notorious name-dropper, but VEGA seems

to handle her very proficiently.

(11) *SOLORZANO (widow ol) RAMIREZ, Cory: (201-

). This Individual

is the sister-in-law of General Lazaro CARDENAS del RIO. She is

accorded Vil treatment by VEGA, and they appear to be very close

triends. On one occasion, VEGA literally chewed out another Embassy

staffer for having failed to deliver a message from Coty to him.

VEGA frequently escortsher to her auromobile when she visits the

Embassy. She is a crony of Tereza PROENZA Proenza.

(12) YARS, Maru (Pros) 202-0

), No identifiable Station

He appears to be a regular contact of Subject. He recently

apologized for having neglected to contact Subject in more than a month,

and at the same time he indicated that it was urgent that he see Subject

immediately.

(13) *ILLATA de la LLATA, Mantiel de la (Dr.):x 120 -

). He resides at

telephone 25-85-21.

• recruited by the Cuban Embass; to go to Cuba. He is an official of the

rp.9

---

## Page 11

104-10276-10220

Attachment

HMMA 24080

201-33-1253

Page 10

Mexican Soclety of Friendship with People's China (SMACP) and a

meriber of Mexico's official Marxist Party, Popular Socialist

Party (PPS).

(14) *MEJIA RIcart, Marcio (Dr.): (201-155362)

(15) FAGUILERA, Ernesto: (201-

Co-manager of Agencia General

de Cargo Aereo, S. A. This company is a cargo agent for Cubana

de Avlacion.

(P.10

---

## Page 12

104-10276-10220

Attachsent

HZA-2401%0

203-334253

Page 11

d. LITIi A'ERICANS (other tha: Cuben or exican):.

SANCHEZ, fau: (Central or Soith Anericar, aecent.) Appears to be one

Of VEGA's agents..

Talephone cantect linised to verificazion of neet-

Inge, sene time, sane place. (1903)

(2)

STRELLA Perez, Rigoberto: DPO3 - 3 Septesber 1942, Caracas, Venezuela

polled for trainins in Cuba

(3)

GUIROZ Aterzanal, Ma: Chllear national who discussed with VEGA the

plan to send "delegates" to Cuhs. The teru "delegate" seens to be double-

calls for "trainees". (1963)

(4) DAVILA, fau (DI.): Nicaraguan nat'oral. (1963)

(5)

UNIVIRSITY STUDENT: With South Anerican accent, makes clandestine von-

tact arrangenents to neet VICA. They seen to have alternate meeting

sites.

In one case, this persor, who is probably one of VeGA's areata,

1s Instructed to be at site No. 1 at 0750 hours. (lay, 1905)

(6)

CASTILLO Flores, Leonardo: Guatemalan Comurist, PGT nember. Involved

In Communist arms smizzling in 1500.

(7) CRUZ, Ruben: Colombian, One oi the Trainees on his way to Cuba. (1963)

(8) ARE IZ, Victors

South American. A VECA contact. Apalogices for

calling him ca the phore but raquests contact ¿or 10 a.1. (August, 1963.

19, UTaZ, Vetor lanuel: 201-622, inatesalen Communist. One of the

•most important contacts of VEGA, Kost of the meetings that source has

reported are arranged clandestirel. CURISRREZ, uses Dr. Alvarez as an

alías when contacting VECA add their meetin; site is usualli reterred to

as "el consuitorio".

Victor Manuei CUTIERRE recently did some work for

VEGA at the University of Guadalajara.

The followine meetings, recoried by source, were held on the dates indi-

cated during a one-year period:

16 Jilly 1962

2ở August 19ú2

9 November 1962

28 November 1962

29 Karch 1963

6 April 1953

24 April 1963

10 May 1965

• June 1903

$ Jime 1903

22 June 1963

1ó Juli 1903

GUTIERREZ very frequently uses an open code vien communicatino with VEGA.

For example:

neans meeting site.

El chico reans trairee; Acapilco reans ayaris; Consultorto

(10) *SECREZO Segura, Judith: (201-42559) Coste Rica Cormurist.

She 1s e

•notorious activist and Partido Vangaria Popiar (Costa Pice: Coumunist

Party) representative in l'exico. (li September 1065)

---

## Page 13

104-10276-10220

201-556237

Pare i2

1, e7 ArLentine rational vino 19

sou ulrecior of the readio de Cultura Ecoscuica, a carule: publishing

house in Mexico City.

Subject seems io use this person, and logionlly

5o, as a propa anda cutlet.

€.

CUBAi, FIASSY ASSOCIAXES

(2) RobicuE, Lopez,

Rosel1o: (201-352ixis) DGI Official, Subject and

RODRIGUEZ couplenent each other operationally.

(2) KediXEPCION sendora, Oscer: (201-729530) DEI OffIcial.

(3) EQUESICA Montoto, Ranon Cesers (201-32045) DOI orSIotal.

(4 CASTILLAR Sanchez, Benito Carlos: (201-TeiSê?) Former Cuban Cortercial

Attache in lexico.

Identified as DSE officer.

S. SOVIET EBASSY CONTACTS

"INCO: FLETE LANES AND UNIDENTIPIED CONTACTS

The followins contacts, consit of Incomplete names which the Station has

been unable to identify.

They are listed here because they seem to be of

some significance:

(1) Planuel - Conversation as follows; "Will walt for you at prearransed

site."

(1965)

(2)

Eduardo - The gist of Eduardo's couments when making contact with Sub-

ject are as

follows:

Sucject replies to Eduardo's request for news by

Bajing that he has no news.

Vial will tell Eduardo to meet him at a

specific site for a tali.

(1963)

(3)

Guillemo - This indiridual has the following nessage for VEGA, "news

of yesterday" (See :EXI-E052, 17 June 1953).

(4)

Sanchez - A person with a Central or South Anerican accent who limit

1s conversation with Subject by stating that "our friend" arrived las

night.

(5)

One of the most. Interestico, unsolved calls was received on May 15, 1903.

n this occasion, a man with a l'éxicen accent corcacted Subject and the

followin, conversation trenspired:

lexican - Of the devices that we had pending we have one of the spe-

cial ones.

VEGA - When cen jou reliver?

Can we have it today if possible?

Yexican - I will have it ready for you within half an hour.

VECA - Goad, I will wait for you at the same place as the other

ig: at 10 nirutes pest 10.

l'exican - In the cirerascope?

1P.12

---

## Page 14

104-10276-10220

Attachert

K24-210:0

201-534253

Pare 13

Coment: his 5 -be total exent, of the caversation. The caller 1ndi-

cases aù the seitnine or the conversation that he was calliri from a

piblic telepare and requested lumediate contect with VEGA. (riay 1963)

(6) Olelina called ditject and when she found out that he was not available

left the follain pessage:

"Call before jou come to the house; I an

Horisins, at the school.

If you do call in the nominE, call before 9

If you cail in the afternoon, call before rightfall. It is urcent

that I commarisase with jou."

(December 1962)

1) Ingeniero Gunsier - This persos is & cartact of VEGA but due to th

oman name 1: is impossible tó identify hin anj further. (1964

(8) Senor Riiz - Jis person 18 & contact of VIGA who 1s from Acapulco,

Guerrerro, ledso. As in the case of Gonzalez, It 18 ainost impossible

to identify Rils die to the counon nane. (1964)

(9) Senor Cañero - Bris jerson is another costact of VEGA. A search of Sta-

tian 1ndices dues not reveal any traces. (1964)

(LO)E Profesor - Feis Idividual appears to be a contact not only of VEGA

but also of Rogeiio RODRIGJEZ, (1964)

11)ZOVAR, Inu - The station has been unable to identify this person. H

1ther lives or saris on Avenida Coyoacán, Mexico City. (1903

(12) DUARTE, Derny - Te Station has had no luck in Identifying this individual.

he is obriously sut a lexican, Judging fron his Caribbean lype Spanish

accent, but no far-ual identifiable taforation is available at present.

(1963)

cose to the present con acts whach be an in hate he station and con-

tinue to the presant.

cernino this inciridual is contained in ICIA-21497, datel 7 June 1903.

17• MODUS OPERANDI:

The following facts concemit Suiject's nodus operandi were culleu from inforna-

tion available to the Suation:

a.

Subject's contacts use assumed Christian nares in arranging contacts (1.c.,

GuillcITo, Alfredo, et cetera), as well as professional titles, (1.e., the

doctor, the lawyer, etc.).

Subject has alterna:e neeting sites. In one ajent's case, he seened to

have 4 (1.e., sitio i, et cetera).

c. At least one ajent identliles hirsel? by nunver (1.e., Ajent 17 speniing).

d. Subject's agents use asen code when sealin catact by telephore.

e.

In et least one case, the agent has apologized lor ravini mesorted to tele

pilose contact, so

apparently some agents have been cationed not to call hi

at the Bhisassy.

I.

HABA-22555 hes interesting details concerning Cuten !! O. for taftltrailns

people lato Cuba.

vaк..

111 people joing to cia, lecallo or Illegili, miLit first contact. Surject.

He tales biographic ig-s and sends it to Cla zor rane checking.

This nane

checking procedure zorzily taies 15 days.

SP. 13"

---

## Page 15

104-10276-10220

Artachient

17-2 kro

201-754253

Pace 14

no abortia, free are can de late seet a narested

The Station has on

file ore of these authorizations, inich also reflects a sample or VIA's sig-

rature.

1.

There are inüications that inortant clandestine calls into the Eabassy al

ade from public pay telephones

Jo Subset and pelt on 100 sent lement each ot or ta or take

a telephone call the other will substitute.

1,: See OTMA-1602 for organizational detalls of Cuban Intelligence.

20. OPERATIONAL FLANCHING DATA

for access?

(1) current residence: A revier of Station materlal indicates that Subject

no loncer resides at the Hotel Agnes and now seems, to be permanently

Installed at the Cuban Emoassy compound. The Cuban Embassy 1s located

at Frencisco Marquez Iúo, Colonia Condesa, rexico City.

In late 1903

Subject gave

the following address in Cuba where he could be reached dur-

ing bis absence fron liexico - Calle 11, lumber 305 between A and Terraza

Lawton, Havana, telephone no. 89-42-82.

This is apparently an unlisted

telephone number, since a check of the Havana reversed telephone listing

failed to show the subscriber's identity.

(2) telephone numbers: 14-92-1, 14-13-26, 25-07-95.

automobile: In 1962, Subject most frequently used a 1959 Edsel regis-

tered in the name of the Cuban Entassy, lexico City•

Throughout the en-

tire year of 1903, Subject used most frequently a 1962 Plymouth that had

Counsular tags ,27. This autonobile is re, Isiered to the Consulate Gen-

eral of Cuba.

Beginning in Aujust livo, Subject was usei75,

at first, and more frequently as time went on, a 195% Chevrolet with di-

plomatic tags 165, which in 1903 was registered in the nane of Ramon s1n0-

bas, First Secretary, Cuban Bibassy •

(4)

current pattern of dall; activity:

It is rather difficult to discem any

delinite nattern in Sioject's daily activities.

A detailed study of LIONION

production for approdnately one jear indicated that Sabiest leit the bm-

bassy acout three times a back usine ailtonbile C-2T. He would depart at

ahoit 10 a.m. and rewini at suon.

In is believed that these times coincide

with she arrival of Cubena de Aración fligats from Cuba.

There has been

a noticeable decline in Subject's telenhonic contact, with strictly over

end: clandestine contacts sir.ca iovenuer I.5.

(E) usuable contacts - LIAi IL/3, end LI: IL/2

Handwriting samples and voice

samples of Subject ar

on file at the Stetion to be used for further opera-

tional planning ajalast Subject.

21. OPERAIONAL STEPS TO BE CARRIE OUT I! MOXE YEAR

2o be deterined by Station's operations ofricer in charge of Cucan operetions.

Attach to: HMMA-24080

1'11 Aug 641 (P.14.

•

---

