# 104-10170-10064

## Page 1

104-10170-10064

it's red!

DISPATCH

SECRET

PRO

PROCESSING

'АСТОР

10

Deputy Chief, NH/SA

X

HO INSETING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFID

MIADOLANTERS SESA

CAN ROLL INCOUR

ABSTRACT

^*mC947w

Chief of Station, JMNAVE /LL

TYPIC/ANSPELL/Operational

aRC ANSPELL Tour of Latin America

ACTION REQUIRDO - REFESENCES

REFS:

A.. WAVE 1448

B. HLBA 6911

C. BOGO 4332

D.

QUIT 5867

E.

HEGA 2900

F.

SAGO 6577

G.

SAGO 6595

н.

LAPA 5550

I. HVCA 11,393

The Reference A. AUSPELL exhibit toured s1x

Latin American countries during a five-nonth period, February-June

With the exception of Guayaquil and La Paz - where excel

lent results were achieved = the tour ras only moderately success

must be classified a

Santiago and

Montevideo.

According to ASPELL,

the total number of persons who

viewed the

exhibit was 6,720:

Another 2,792 persons reportedly

atiended conferences at which the ANSPELL team gave talks

Reference A. exbibit and the dangers and weaknesses. of Castro.

Communisn.. Publicity was glven the exhibit by 34 newspapers

1tems), 30 radio stations, and six television stations.

estimated the TV

at 1, 300,000.

Sample clippings are

enclesed under separate cover.

Reports from WH stations and the

WAVE debriefing of the AMSPELL team

lead us to conclude that the

tour was a moderate success that could bave been much better if

been better organized and if the AUSPELL team had had more

experience. (On balancel we believe the tour was well worth the

approsimately $12,000.00 KUBARK paid out.

He do not, however,

be repeated in the foreseeable future in view

of the relative inexperience shown by the AMSPELL team on the

recent tour and the many difficulties encountered in trying to

organize the exhibit in the various cities.

/ CONTINUED /

CS COPY

Attachments: U/SC

A.

AISPELL, Statistical Report

B. Misc. Press Clippings

.? Y

2413

DATE DESPATCHEO

DISTRIGUTION:

3 - DC/WH/SA, #/attachs,_ 4/SC

CROSS REFERENCE-TO

• -

DOC FORMATES T/O S/C

BY RID/AN -E

DATE TYPED

23 July 61

DISCATCH SMMDCE ANO NURLE 2 $ 1964

UFGA- 16, 980

MEADQUARTERS FLE MAMBER

SECRET

+19-124-26-13

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCA

CLASSIFIGATION

SECRET

DiSPATER SINBOL AND NUMURR

UFGA 10,950

2. COLOUBIA.

The AMSPELL team arrived in Bogata on 12 Februars

1964. but were unable to make contact with the local

• ASPELL/ANDARB

contact

until the next day.

They were unble to

get adequate advance

publicity

and had trouble finding space foi the exhibit.

persons attended the exhibit, and AMSPELL conferences

were attended

note ded by

appioximately 185 persons.

HLBA-6911rcported GISNEAKER-9's observations

on

the local reaction

the tour, which he judged

The ANSPELL team freely admitted

to WAVE that the Bogota oporation was

something less than successful, but blamed the lack of advance prepara

tions and the existerice of an unfriendly press for their failure.

should also be noted that the AMSPELL team was not on

the best of terms

with some of the local Cubans, and this fact probably had a good deal

to do with the poor showing.

Medellin.

The showing in Medellin was better than in

Bogota.

The press was lukewarm but the director of the Caracol radio

station gave them considerable publicity, and they were able to hold

the exhibit in a central spot in the city.

About 400 persons visited

the exhibit over a period

of three days,,

and 850 persons attended con-

ferences given by the team.

The team recoived good advance press play in Call,

, which was

perhaps one reason for the fact that the local Communist parts

also well prepared for their arrival.

On the very first morning

of the exhibit, a large crowd of Communists tried to enter the exhibit

and when they were

with the obvious intention of starting inkbombs" into the exhibit hall.

locked out began to throw rocks and

The incident provided considerable publicity for ANSPELL

as reported

in BOGO 4332.

total of 100 persons attended the exbibit.

The AMSPELL

team claimed

that the Communists were very strong in Call and that work

ing there was like swimming upstream.

3.

ECLADOR.

The team arrived in Quito on 25 Narch, after spend-

ing several days

in an unsuccessful attempt to obtain visas for Peru.

QUIT 5867 reported the AMSPELL team's personality clashes with the

local AMBARBs. and the consequent poor

performance by the AMSPELL team,

who complained of the absence of police protection,

adequate facilities

for the exhibit, etc.,

and departed just two days later on the 27th.

attendod by 325

team generall; corroborated the above story

in their debriefing by WAVE.

After such incidents as reported in QUIT 5867, we are reluctant to

recommend any future tours.

Guayaaull.

The ANSPELL team considered Guayaquil their

most successful operation,

an opinion seconded by Guayaquil base who

termed it a "resounding success."

(Sce QUIT 5867 and HEGA 2900).

exhibit received front page coverage in "El Universo" and "El Telegrafo",

and they were siven a half hour on a major TV station.

total of 1,200 persons visited the exhibit, and the team spoke before

40 members of a local group, Frente de Defensa Nacional.

Santiago, Chile.

The ASPELL team arrived

in Santiago on 5 March to coincide

with the opening of the Latin American Youth Congress (LAYC).

Santiago operation was a complete loss because Chilean customs authori

ties would not release the exhibit during the congress and the AMSPELL

team was unable to obtain space of any

kind to hold conferences due to

competition from the congress for space.

(See SAGO 6577).

The ANSPELL

ecan had be at on to contate ad and are AsP Tear

Ito lacilitate their

could contribute more by remaining quiet than by actively propagandizing

CONTINUED /

CLASSIFICATION

FORM

1,6t

530

USE PREVISUSEDITION

SECRET

2

CINUES

04

3/P

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COYTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMgER

UFGA 16, 980

against fand

thoreby calling attention to the congress.

The end result

was that

the AMSPElL team did nothing. An amatcurish plan to kiduap. &

¡Cuban delckate to the LIC as hostage for political prisoners in Cuba

was quickly scotched by the Station.

(See SAGO 6595).

5..

La Paz, Boliria.

The ASPELL team arrived in La Paz on 17 March, and after somé

difficulty in obtaining space were finally able to open

the oxhibit

in Club La Paz on 21 March.

As noted in LAPA 5550; exhibits and con

ferences sore held in various locations in tho city, with the closing

performance on 25 March at the Scala Theator hosted

by the Vonozuelan

ambassador.

The exhibit received excellent coverage in all four of the

leading La

Paz newspapers and the three largest radio stations carried

ANSPELL conferences.

Despite the excellent publicity,

a total of only

600 persons visited

the exhibit in La Paz.

According

to AlSPELL, this

was due to Bolivian preoccupation with such things as a national day®

to

demand a passage to the sea for Bolivia which stopped all traffic and-

communication,

6. Argontina.

Buenos Aires.

Tho AMSPELÍ team arrived in Buenos Atres on

27 March during Holy Reek.

In addition to the delay

caused by Holy Week

celebrations, the team had difficulty finding space for the oxhibit.

With the help of the Chamber of Commerce, the exhibit finally opened on

6 April in Chamber of Commerce offices on Leandro Allem street.

estimated 1,200 persons visited the exhibit during a four day period,

and good publicity was also obtained in the La Prensa and La Razon

newspapers.

The AMSPELL group also obtained 10 minutes on Panorana

Mundial, Channel 7 TV, as part of a 30-minute program on Cuba and the

overthrow of Goulart in Brazil.

According to ANSPELL, the Panorama.

program is ratod as laving 500,000 viewors.

The AMSPELL team also held

four conferences. before small groups of Rotarians and university students

which were attended by a total of 100 persons.

Rosario. 'The AMSPELL team arrived in Rosario on 1l April

and opened

of finding

a site due to the lack

the exhibit on 15 April, advance preparations.

after the customary difficulties

chamber of

commerce finally came through with an excellont sito,

in the center of town.

it was open.

A total of local news.

papers (La Cronica, La Tribuna, La Capital) gave good publicity to the

The local radio stations

gave spot announcements of the exhibit

but did not five any additional publicity.

The AMSpELL team mado a hurried trip to Cordoba,

they were able

to show the exhibit to an estimated 600 persons

during a three day star, 2023 April.

The local chamber of commerce

was again very helpful

for space for the exhibit and obtain-

ing local press publicity. Good press coverage was obtained in Los

Principios and Cordoba.

1. montevideo, Uruguay®

The AMSPELL team reported that Montevideo

was the worst performance of

entire tour, with only trenty persons

attending the exhibit.

They arrived on 26 April and after unsuccess

fully attempting to obtain a site

In a central location, felt obliged

to accept space in the Catholic Club, considered a center of reaction

by many Uruguayans and remote

from the main thoroughfares.

the poor reception and the lack of good local contacts.

fair amount

of publicity was obtained in the local press and the ASPELL team hac

a one-hour show on the local TV channel 10.

/ CONTINUED /

"094

$3a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLARSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGENO.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DIBFATEN SYNOOL AND NUMAIR

UFGA 16, 98U

Venezuela.

The AMSPELL team arrived in Caracas on

9. May, having cut Brazil Irom the tour because

caught their local contacts unprepared and it was not

until 16 May that the exhibit opened..

Excollent support was provided

by station assets and widespread publicity was given to the cout.

the exhibit was located in a rolativoly remote spot and

300. persons attonded the exhibit, according to AMSPELL.

(Tho Station

estimate was 100-500). Anothor 110 porsous attönded ANSPELL con

The station report (HVCA-11393) which has been corroborated

by the WAVE debriefing

of the AMSPELL toam, describes the typical

exporience of the ANSPELL toam throughout the tour with the exception.

that local support was not always as effoctivo as in Caracas.

Enclosed under separato cover 18 an AMSPELL statistical summary

of the tour and press clippings from the countrios visited.

Buce Pleepe

ANDREW K. REUTENAN

IS COPY

• 401

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATIÓN

3 ECRET

PAGENO

17.

carTINUTE

---

