# 104-10145-10262

## Page 1

104-10145-10262

HSCA

INTERNAL USE ONLY.

CONFIDEMILAL

ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Thursday - 6 July 1978

1.

(Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Accompanied Scott

Breckinridge, Special Coordinator for the House Select

Committee on

Assassinations, OLC, and Rodger Gabrielson,

OLC, to brief Thomas K. Latimer, Staff Director, House

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, on the state of

play as between the House Select Committee on Assassinations

and the Agency.

Mr. Latimer immediately understood that the

not ore on a state cha

crux of the problem

lay in the House Select Committee on

Assassinations possible exposure of sensitive information

(Nosenko and/or Mexico operations) in open fora. He said

that he would brief Chairman Edward P. Boland (D., Mass.),.

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and that

the latter might discuss the matter with Chairman

Louis

Stokes (D.,

Ohio), House Select Committee on

Assassinations.

suggested that the best approach would be for the DCI to

raise the issues we were concerned about with Chairman Stokes

aud, chand

if necessary with the President.

The latter in

register his concerns with Speaker of the House Thomas P.

- O'Neill.

Mr. Latimer said that the House Permanent Select Committee

on Intelligence charter precluded the House Permanent Select

Committee on Intelligence from playing a significant role in

this matter.

2.

(Confidential - DEM) LIAISON Received

a call from

Spencer Davis, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff,

who asked for

the phone number of former Agency employee

Newton S. Miler, as one of the Committee staff members wanted

to interview him. June, O/PCS/LOC/DDO, subsequently called

let to see to a anded his request and

in his absence, left a message that he call Davis.

he

was satisfied.

I also explained to Davisathe Agency's position, segarding

retired Agency employeel

I who was

and upon retiring took a position as a consultant

to the Saudi Government.

Our position is that as

Jhas

retired, the Agency has no control over his activities other

than through his secrecy agreement which he signed and which

remains in effect. Davis also asked me if the same situation

was true for a former Chief of Station in

and "I said I

would check.

12-15

INTERNAL USE ONLY,

CONFIDENTIAL

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

-Do Not Reproduca

HIMPOET CL BM

21885

5/20.

---

