# 104-10163-10014

## Page 1

104-10163-10014

PRIOR TO FILING

•1.

Fal am Sect. 2. on

Detach back hap

and. forward to RID

Destroy

leont cayer sheel, unless it reco:ds

signiltant achon laken or comments sequi-

ing preservation.

FROM:

RID/

1Q: ACTION BRANCH

li tile no. and title shown are not proper.

insert proper hie no below and lorwair

document to RID. AN

PAOPER FILE DO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACH. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

RID/AN - 3

ROOM

DATE

DECEMAN I FORMARDED

TO

SAS/ESC

3.

OSBOCE#S

TITIALS

/ahs

2 9 AUG 1963

SAs/ mes

FOB Ronis

10.

SAS/C I|

12.

13.

14.

18.

10.

1%..

7066E 6T

11521363

23 screens

21 SKP 1963

Do you hold IS 201

Just send on

plan

"you has 20%

050

AUNTRACT

HMMA

21978

6100

PHEVIOUS

16 Qug 1963

SECRET

1401

ZIBR

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

SECRET

MANEED FOR MOCKING

Chief, SAS

INFO

Chief, WHD; Chief of Station, JMNAVE

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Operational/TYPIC/CI/Eusebio AZCUB Lopez (201 - 334089)

ACTION REQUIRED • RUFURENCES

xx

* MOTING BEGUNE

CARY QUALITIED DESE

CAN NOCE MODUSE

REFERENCE: ENS 11779

1.

Eusebio AZCUE Lopez has long ben of interest to the Mexico Station.

As noted in reference he is Consul a, the cuben Embassy In harico CaLy. Be

has been en object of rather close scrutiny with an eye to his recruitment

Station to look choe agali Into the matter,

HMM. 5248 of Dotober 1960 contained a pretty good capsule version

AZUE's usual anti-American remarks. It should be noted that the source of

this was LIMASK-1 who dined with AZCUE on several occasions and furnished a

number on ceports ee Accus to the Station. In July 1962 (LITAMILY reported

that AZCUE hnd not changed a bit and that she considered himla dyed-In- th

wood, Communist.

In Jamary 1963 LITAMILy reported that AZCUE's wife was quite upset

that her husband had allowed theirson Miguel to go to Cuba to study. She

PROENZA Proenza.

He said that AZUE has A siator Ilving In the United States

and that itis mother died In New York City about & yenr earterlLy xplained

the Pontaçou and she, Depertuent of State 10 unlimited, and fanatien

time AZCUE had one son studying in Cuba and was expected to send his other

son eech.

....

• Continued -

Distributives

4 • C/3A3

2

- CNHD 3ec fud e/WHI.

• COB WAVE - TO SAL

3 = 111®3

Fiid..

19:9..

P: topilical:

CHOSS REFERINCE TO

CS COPY.

DISPATCH BYMBOL AND NU SEN

FIMA 21978

BEGRET

201-334089

-26 14033₴ 1967

NOB FILE MUMBER

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SPINNATION OF

• DIPAICH

SE

199 i2-?

kidding ourselves, the Asaricans are beiter people trian ve are - they are

more tenerous end sore tuaai...

"Due went on to express violent hatred for ube

Peutason and the U.S, Govertment in general nich be ianes for supporting

cornipt regures throughout the hemisphere!| (Ly) eays chaL ANCUE 18 not a

Conmunist (be is sure of tha:) and thai lis wifê is anti- Comunist.

They have

three children that be knows of, two boys now studying in Cuba and a girl

who 18 apparently withthen in Kexico. One of the boys was born in Spain.

ZcUs has Indicated to (1) that he would like to leave the Foreim service

and go to work as an

archi:oot, perhapa for JUCEPLAN in Cuba!' (L-9) class1110s

him as a very capable Consul and says that his departure fros the Fabassy would

leave a void hard to 1111. (1-9) does not consider him resourable.

5. It is tr be noted that on lo August (adording to WAVE 2675) AZCUE

told AMOT-106 he would soon be departing for Cuba PCS with his wife and tho

daughters.

Tas Station will not make any atteupt to digent the voluminous t1le

attempt: 1f he blunts his lanoe we will b: none the worse for the wear and, 1$

ho 1a successful, we will have a agent o1ther inaide the Embassy or inside

Millara (Cuttis

100 0 Дa

{dep

MA PORNINUE ADITAL

81-J0. $I 20A AFIO $I 29

WHICH ABS OBSOLIE

CLALMPICATION

PADINO.

CONTINUED

---

