# 104-10219-10084

## Page 1

104-10219-10084

10

DISPATCH

Chief, Wh Division

CLASSIFICATICN

SECE ET

FLE M11S1G to dates it shitched

356

PROCESSINE ACTICH

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXIND RECHIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

ALCOHLE

Chief of Station,

SAUECT

Operational/Transalital of a Microfiln Letter Mentiozing

Bernor Hicholl and Hulla MilLer

ACTION REQUIRED - NEPERENCES

As densed appropriate

Attached herewich do the original letter which contalas a

nierofilm lottor and coples of e'e nierofile, The letter tas sent

by an enknown uriter fron Paria, France la carly December 1964 to

Willian D. Snidow, Valted States Department of State employce to an

addrees in Beirut,

Lebano.à.

The letter vas forwarded by sea pouch

to Snidow In Barranquillo.

Since the letter was of no personal

Interest to Saldor, he turned 1e

ovar to Gerald &. Roberget for

such act em as he deezad appropriate.

Tho letter apparently tedicates choe the volter wanto to

centnet the Central Intelligence Agency and in one paragraph

suggeate that the seader not forget Bernon Michell and V1l11m

111165•

3.

Tho attaciments are forwarded to Headquartera for wbatever

setion la deened appropriate.

Alan A. Loboda.

Actechsent:

1.

Original Letter h/v

2. Coples of microfilm h/w

Dietribation:

Original 6 2 - C/WID w/ste/b/v

2 - Plles clatt 02

CROSS REFERENCE TO

attention

curt

30

ther

л'°

9'

s'.

DISPATCH SYMBOR AND NUMBER

ATION*

SECRET

DATE

вы Наз 1965:

HOE FILE NUMBER

17-500

---

## Page 2

SECHET

I vast to uite to you about a very interesting satter. trat, I

sha21 send a code to you.

All es sy lettera vill be l0 code.

I shall eom to pos soul, tha 81rs% chane I get.

I an obilged to keep secret the muse of the country there I am ye-

contly Locatedy the sereon - Derman MItchall and 11111aa Bartle,

do not faryato...

Cito no a rivate altecso (postal box). In erdar that you may shea

that you have recoired uy lotter,

do the fallordeg (25-26-71--32-1964)

place edvurtlannento (Ens Da1l(y) Star) (a) Lebanese novapagen; the

trig

Peedote (Fougaaut) 2551 kino.

Flouse pira 5a a post box addreas.

123 3

appare setter vittan by a lesa than svarage educated Synate.

Runaol D. Folaes

CH/REA

3 Jusso 2565

10. 247

,д?....о. .о...ілоліісі.і

:.?

SEGRET

---

