# 104-10219-10285

## Page 1

(104-10219-10285|.

SEGNET

327

HX-11

81 February 1561

MEMORANDOMFOH: YE Department of §tate

iritos, Lileo of Security

ATTANTIONI

MARTIN, Willan

Lo Rolarenco in mado to your lottor ol 21 Culobor 1961 engtioned

"MAATIN, Hilles and MICHel, Burios", end lo jous socoat lecter

al do Jesuory 8862 captosod do abovo, your ile, reloponce 38:8210.

Than you des your lotter al lo October 1460, chich enclosed

a copy el too newo article reruding bublocto, watch epprared in tha

Maw Yesh Dully dons Landsy Lalson of l2 Boysanbor d:00. o regret

ens through an ovoroiaht your lotter uns not tmediatoly arteouteded

and es Indleston provided to you of the sintus ol the action undersator.

In Inspondo is your guertos. la lao Insarles twovel, the noceeeasy

sellon and tile chocko bovo boon completod, and the ransita aro reparina

baler.

Do With coloreno lo the newo articlo trell, and your reguest dor

verification o to lalormaton Foportod In tho proos, a chock it our

recorde dallon to develop asy sasormation partoining to tat diegation

thet sabies joined the Communat Pary lo Fabreasy 1994, And dhal

respootusly, le 10 eussooted that yon may uten to enfer this cuestion

to tno Federa. Daroon si invostigation, do vo note tist arissor of the

abovo referorces indicates that a copy mar forwerded lo the Bureas,

1 hit a ooparale lagniry bao being mado al that alfieo.

Wun relorence to eun regaont for ilormation cerceraing the

identity ol the refugee organision which allopily obtairse a bulletin

containing bia informarion, approprate laguirtos hate bace made by

pan represestetives in bendor. The latter uvleed in late December 1900

SECRET

---

## Page 2

"'i' ar ind,

SECRET

w.iil

thol lhis onns Iseca uas discuesed wit

w ho

advisod that lhey vono anable lo develop say iniormaston elther to selato

ot to asppor tho story ao carried ta the press. Horever. L

indicatod

thal thay condidor ll probablo Chat the actual suunce vas o certain fesept

MWSLEA COrT Jaly L111 in csochorlrahia, gho lo belleved 8o have

boen ned al tlraos ds a comact by vir. Fioary A. MAVil, the cltet

bondon corrospendens el The New Yort Tioaco", HELiLEl on occadtes

has latd claim to haviog courceo bohind the lros Curtais, butL 10 ol

the optoton thar he probnbly obtaine la Inormation fren a Caech

Rolngoo orgasiralos. not lurther Idesililed by namo. Iboy also indl-

caled that the britieb conolder do Mighly loprodablo that thore 16 aoy

s8al in thio parricular asory.

5. Osr rocorde indicate that the above Joooph HasLEl, Dho

Mrot arrived In tbo Unitod Lingoon In 1911, and since lhes bas engaçed

ln vartose ospost lmpost traouacliond, rasy alrcady bo kncen lo yoar

Expertenen.

Fía liret camo to attention la sepseubes 1:5% wbon our

raprodemallves ln tondon wore roquoeted lo obtaiil

trac0s oy

WESLER for MI. Cllnton Grosn, USIS reprosentative ie tondon, wle

hnd recelvod en unsolicited aprosch from a I. Dersard HUTTCN.

Blenuidiod byL

Jao Joroph iucisuERo' Car recordo Iodicaso Ches a

CEpUrO ol MI. GrOeD'o COAlACiO With RSILIA os lormarded to USLA

Hondguartaro lo late 195%, and lhar cortain documonto solasing 8o

HIiSiER'e impor-esport oporastoro ses* foruardod by the seonomte

esense Oslieo t'epreamtalivos ln konden to vour Dosarunont tl saeu

e oomo timo. Tha llos sboe that a full copy of the posore ear

BODtiNg tAAS J. BAIArd MUTIUN l IondCil Wit Jooeph HEISLEA

occompasied too sepert lo L'ilA Hoddgunriero, A copy ul tagoe lrecoo

ls provteed lor your corvenienso, an aifachnent horemita.

6. We note that ln a rapiy to

prepared by sur reprecoutde

tlves in posponno to the above mentioned tracee un MElSLEE, mentdon

do mado al a 1986 vioa applicadon diled by disinh, preusmably for

ontpy into the United Stasoe, altbrugh ens actoal selorenco lo sot neall-

ablos de lo roguested thas any niditional informaten wbich may be

rolloctod in tha imiicoe ul tho Dopartment of Stato with referenco to

Joneph MilibER'o vios applicalion and va bio contocto wilh Coraintoro

or sovlet intoillgenco cúliciala or viganinatione, bo provided to thia

Agency ao expoditimualy ao possible.

lo Tho foregalng inforraalios do reotricrod lor lesorual sno of the

sns tanisaip.c

SIUEST

...!!!

"ioey etioles

rsi"t"

wy se

• N "?

1- 220 202

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

iit...

oddrones valy, and say not bo discendnated ostetto the selvesere

alice oliton the prios appreval al the origiosior.

FO% THE DERUTY DIRECTOR (P:AN9)

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

1 Attachments

o€ w/ei81 Todoral Dareon of lovestigatleu

ce u/att: Nattenal Becurity Agoney

Atta do So Feeley Hoyoolde

DD/P/F1/D/APotockd:mem

Distribution:

Orig & 1w/att - Addressee

& w/att - 100-6-124/3

I w/att - 201-282337

1 w/ett - 201-282338

2 w/1 att - OS/SRS

/ w/att - 201-207250 (Joseph HEISLER)

I w/att - chrono

Based on: OEL 18040

OELA 32666

O EliA 21634,

tire in wa

3009

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

SSOMET

ATTACHMENT

• I think thore lo no dusbe Irom the particulars aod description

Elven in paragraph 1 »i that letter that'the man do whom you are cur-

gently interested in Joseph isiant, born 1 July 1911, & Cserbostoo

vallen nationas obo fleet arrived da thr. U.F. da 80 Juns 1-3%

'HElSITA wao eduratod in Chrast until 1930, when he ment to

Berlin and studded medIcia®

le 1913 ho roturnod la Crechoslavanis

and becamo a journalial, According to his oms atatemaid sade to the

Brielah Follee in Soptonber 1:41, HelsiLl become Interested in Coss

men in borden in 1130 and jained the Communies Party la 1932. Ho

moto articleo lor a coumunist periodical called "Red "ses" and vas

snooelated with the neganisation Rod Help. In 1733 ho translorsed lo

the Cooch Communiet Farty and wrote for "Hude Feavo." In April 14J4

ho went es moscon and obtalsed employnent on the stall ol iDa "Noacoo

Beening Newt.

"According lo a ascally rollable cousco MEISLER attonded the

bonto School la Moncon in about 1531. lin admitted visiting the leain

tichaos but melatainod that be had never citended on latinsive cousco ol

politeal inscruction. Ho aloe elaimed shes is 1935 ho had been Invited

to borome a citisen ol tho V 5i8. lo bal ho had volaed, and tal by

193% ho was no longor e nonber a te Coamonat 88rt%

*Alter he arrival in the VI. HEISLEN jodned the Thomas Mara

group ol Croch jonspallets. (Thie man one el the emlare groupe formed

under ths Crosh Reinges Arist Fundl, Ho vas sellably reportod to be &

Comamnial at tini limo: nilshad was eployed by the soch hitty.

for Forelga Allars frem abage Angual 194l until February lito so e

radio commontetor ant translator. He la known to have aald that be

racolved a colasy from un Enoch Embrasy "for propagasole" Ator

to on ho mado several viallo to crochoelovablas on the last occamon

no retired to thie country on 3l lebruary 1id6.. Allhugh he claims

to save rosigned from Croch Guvernment employranst at to time of the

Commuiot comp d'etal, rollable vonreoe show that he was, al least until

Criber 1.44, a Contact of LI. LEMAN, The df lat lime woo Secoad

Secretary in to taoch Inenasy and lie repreientalive tere of the

Croch Miniotry of the Interior. HElsitil van strongly suspested of

DElag 00 as agent lor libAt, He was aldo reportod lo be posing so a

Sociallis bar in realisy to do a Communies.

28 CRY

---

## Page 5

ONCT

"I December 196% HELLEE applied to the Home Offico los pos-

elandon to publial a vectly nemopaper in the Croch language far the

Groch communiles in lie contry, so establion a llerary and sale

agenny through which loroiga literature could be pleced In the country

and from time to time lo publion boots, mainly for export, he sat

granted permiantos lo work no a free-lance journailot.

'Al thA eNd o1 1941 HEISLAR applied for a Certicate of Natural

milor; has talo was refused da March 1009.

*In March 194) HElSiES started a Mem namod tho Hdes Com-

pany, thish clotmed lo bo tho solo ogent for a farm of spanisha cotton

mannecturora. The lin dece not appear to have had a good sepa

flos, In 1951 ho was connocted vius as Import and eport tina narned

All-layo Gorvice, and in 1992 mila betes Company and The iletes

Company illiod, Stoco that isno ho has continuonoly como to notice

In connection with anmo dealing Thore is, bowevor.. no evidenco lo

connest him with say political activity.

Recons infernation ouggeste

(aal ao may bo in come tnancial dificultoo.

"MABLE MArrIed liFe on 10 CElOber 1940 ElONG NOOKCHL BECKOVA

who died on 9 boptembar 1900. They had two Brition born childron.

On 18 December 1700 bo marcied a Brilloh sobloct samed Foall GUlD,

Wendos anill sonas 1934, cince when toy have lived la serdon, Jaels

predess address de Is Gorald hond, Hering. "

..".

US ORTICIALS ONLY

---

## Page 6

1d-0000

FID/SAS Indices checked 10 Feb 6] - Negotive results

Dr. Jakob Y. FISCHER

HAYANKO Hanako 9 Common-law Japanese wife

Rheinland Gorman Kitchen.

Tal Casan

•*. :.

we were getristas toes.

"!.

---

