# 104-10217-10009

## Page 1

104-10217-10009

VIA: - AIR PCUCH

Bd8: 02-9557571

DISPAT A NO. IT*A -168

SECRET

SECUR CLASSIFiCATIONIN

TO :

FROM :

Chief, FE

Chief of Station,

Chat with Sovlet Diploratl

5 June 1952

MICROFILMED

SUBJECT: GENERAL

OCT 3 1 1968

SPECIFIC.

DOC. MICRO. BER.

_Io Cn 4 June 1952 coruin attended a cocktall perty given

• by the Argentinian Charge d'affaires in honor of Feron's reelec

tion to the presidency.

The party was not too far along when

Corwin encountered Feodor Alexelvitch CATANIl, a firat secretary

of the sovlet Legation.

Corsin had net CARANIN once before at

Secretary.

24,30671 cocktail on then asion dated tell can con

the Russian with

"How do you do, ir. Caranin.

and answered in turn,

"How do you do, sir. Cor

using the latter's true name, of course.

Garanin said,

"You have a good terory," whereupon corwin replied,

"ly memo-

ry is almost as good as yours."

Garanin smiled and

that ended

the Incident for the moment.

In searching for bis aife, Corkin fuund her

engaged in conversation with Caranin.

Corwin joined the group

Corwin Indicated his willingness to

At that point be Introduced Garanin to Lt. Col. Howard

Van De Car, United States Air Attacne.

Garanin said that he

knew Col. Van De Car but Van De Car later told Cormin that he

could not recall ever having met Garanin before.

Shoruly after

this Garanin excused himself but told Corwin that he would re

turn to the subject later. It yill be interesting to see whe

ther he makes any further contact.

The next day it was learned that Caranin had alao en

fagea Fred Hajjar, Assistant Attache in the comercial section

of the U.S. Legation, in conversation and had indicated a de

sire to have lunch with him alsu

SIT: USSE OCC: SECOND SECY BEINGALO

* Nr. Hellshas had sore previous social contact with

Garanin and

I. PARTCECUK, a second secretary at the sover

Legation in charge of consular affairs..

Hells speaks Russian

and has exchanged visits with these two individuals.

Wells says

that NARICHOUK is a ruch more pleasant person than Garanin whom

he describes as

an unbappy and coarse character. Garanin has

AFD

51-287

201-340678

•ECURITY LASSIFICATION

teri

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

. NF"A-168

5 June 1952

Page Two

exhibited a short temper or occasions with Tells and reportedly

lost his terper completoly durino a meeting with ir. AR fELLAS,

forrer British First Secretary.

On this occagion Garanin had

needled Kellas

In a falrly rough fashion. Rellas had replied

In kind, and Caranin had lust his tenuer and left.

5. Garanin speaks fairly good English. Martchouk does not

speak Englass but, according to fells, speaks French.

It is not

believed that Carenin's expressed desire to have lunch with cor

win has any special significance as such, particularly in light

poLIcy in Germany.

Distribution:

See lowin

Mash 2

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION :.!.:

201-340678

---

