# 104-10220-10117

## Page 1

104-10220-10117

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF TENTIAL

SECRET

FROM:

1O: (in sanaan, on nures, and

building)

DATE

OPTICER'S

MATIALS

HA CRIMED

FORWARDED

DAIR

3 larch. 1960

"OMMENTS (Numbre pact common to thou dom' ta

Do ertors.

Drum a line deroes eoluma atlar port comment

2.

3.

No 19.2502

2.

Copy attached for you

retention should jou desira.

3. Cort attachod

for jour

initial retention and then

plouse forward for Jubjoct

Thack you.

Lipatel scort to

aladina in secter

7.

ders

7. 7ie QDDALE

10.

12.

13.

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

8 March 1950

MELIORANIAM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Mecting with lu. William Puvley and Isido FREITS 09 Firaicial

and Organizational Matter's

TIME & PINCE: 1455 Hours, 2 Narch 1960; Mr. Parley'e Offlee in Ninat

1.

Jacob Ecterlire, uning the name Jacob Inclund, Ket sor to boure with

No. Pawley and tir. FREYRE on the date Indicatei.

The followits subjects vere

covered during this mocting:

Megardine the bond issuc which it. Fewley 10 floating In

ol radoing 22,000,000 for support ul vitosition actirities,

Ecterline 4011 uln that the firot two cardilates to sla: the issue

vere quite accoptubic.

These poople are Erillo OCHOl Octus abd

Dr. Gustavo CURE!O.

Esterline said the other two lt. Pavlei had

suggested vere tuined down in sashincton-ot los any persora?

reasons, but merely because tlicy had been too clotely associated.

with bitIsti elements in the mist. ifter sore resistance, particularly

with revard to MARGUEZ Sterlino, Me. Pauloj'e tira candidate, Le

acreed to consider others.

Two of the most prominent caniliates

mentioned were intonio VARON, Autentico leader, and Jorge zaris,

former editor of the Habana dally nemopezer, La Avaace:

Mr. Puwley and his colleague, ta. FREYRe,

hed no reservatiors vith

ICEBId tO ZAYIS; they were of nixed enctiore on VARONI-janicilarly.

because of a recent report they had receive? from RUBIO Fadilia in

Habana indicating that VAROl in Auther to the left than tes formerly

been considored.

This point was debated at lereth and it wis inally

decided that the resolution would turn on whether or not ke. YARONI

would be willing to come to the States and forully join the errosition.

(ROTE TO MR.

(1) Where 1s ZiYiS at the present time ari ween can

he be broucht back to the United States to sten the bonds? (2)

Tove be ever

haü ony leftiot traces on VARONi before?

Also, 1a the Station in touch with

him and could they deterrine through a channel

other than RUBIO isjilla whether

VARON 1111, 1n fact, cone to the United States for a purpose such as-this?)

Mr. Pawley la pressing for action in gettine the bonds sigred and his

point is well taken.

it must be noted, hoverer, that it wi'd be foolish

to accept names which are less than acceptable because, in she long run,

It would defeat our purrose.

question of jublication ol a Cuban neusarer in Niazi,

Esterline said he understood tiat li. Pawley lui made arrangents for

che pablication of Diurio de Marina in Mids!.

15. Pawley said that he

had, und with enthusian sata trate had aiso beer able de loure iranish

converoich kite for the allotimo mchines which does avaj atin the necessity

of buyini; the encilras.

Esterline tien queried his on what dia itaction

SEGNET

---

## Page 3

juries

to prtuttes avange

since it quula be intonel for all pructical carposea

1n: Cuba.

Noo revley again aid with eatinolen that ho vould be prepare:

to print liaree on soon

as 2AYAs

one country dt his mutuati

acreed that thin chould

tie priority propaganda targata for the

immediate attire.

During e recent convertion with chinf, stD in Washington, Mr.

Pawicy rude tic remark that through hin irlonde in Alami he had contee.

with action trips in Pinor dil Rig and Criery.

trior to Esterline's

úeparture for linch, C, WiD ached him to loris into theor groupe in nore

detail with Vr. Pasley.

ise rubject yan accordingly ruined and a. PasLey

and dro rita, ino had most of the cubater ire Information, provtded the

following:

(1) 6a Finor del Rio, lie, Falke said there was a group

In that eres, but he did not ture the nore of it at dis finger

tipo at the soment.

He offerid to set it within the noxt for

daga and make 1e uvailable through Mi. Punley.

•10

(2) 0n Caraguey, MI. FlINE said that a Doctora

actlvely vorking with retired elemente of the old army living

in that areno

This croup-and 1t would sppeer that she may have

contact with 500 at the moment (the total broug in approximtely

4100 -33 espposedly organizing so a residtenee army. In Canaucy.

Dra.

ras complete responsibility for this orennization.

Sho

10 aided try a Dso

i Prite said that should any

boly attert to contact

and she was not present; contact

could be rare with Di.

who would yut thon In touch

with hcr. Va. FRETre arpeared to have no suther rotallo of the

group other than those set forth chove. He did eay, however,

that thier e vas an existing contact plen which anybody could ise

w1th complete security either on the telephone or in a personal

meeting.

This plen vould work ao follois:

The purson contacting Dea.

Jshoald say they

is cocine irom reta 39 to talk to Aden 37 (theao are o1d

scrority and traternity designatione).

loving establiahed

this, "hey should then suj to the Doctora that they are

cortan to consult. about defici refore.

This will cotablish

the bora didec

al the percon maring contact as a friend of

Nro PRaTFE.

(Note to Mr. Remolis and tr.

Please lave soseboly prepare a ilenatch

on the accorsibill'y of the fiults gor on! muest to the ctation that liceigarters

ite disratch charli also eurrest that Station linhann sclec e

non-official person to eate alls contact.

Although I sould recorrent that an

american be use! for this, I milly don't inor ernugi ubrut the situallu: In Caregaey

se know wether the Ductora would le very leups ahon euting an merleade

however, cave no triication thai un inevican maing ar contact voul! be calecrtrsileo)

Distribution:

21.410-la: 199011.013

¿ - Saila Monopile

Petitie

Esterlina

c/54

---

