# 104-10169-10013

## Page 1

104-10169-10013

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

DISPATCH

TO

Chief of Station, JISLAVE

INTO

PHO

POSED

I file

PROCESSINO

ACTION

MARNED FOR INDELOR

NO SHOCKINS REQUIRD

MLADQUARTIRS DESE

CAN ADOE OLDEXIMO

AASTRACT

LICADIRE

FISHED

chief, Task force W

CYROSE PM DO TIARRICAL OL LOFLUTTER SEEMATIOS

ACTION REQUIRED. RIFLAINCES

Irensal trade

en trollo suqus ilyas, and Orlando BOSCH AvIla, BoX J00a

Interaatlo

DISPArCE)

af

in a lip fit,

2001-302008

Sen

om

detechnanti

As SSAtet (N) . 8/2/8

8 • 693, ПАТЕ

"опоа міної #6

17 mog •88

&B MAY 1982

UPEВ-1976

+201-299299

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

104-10169-10013

ATTACHMENT TR DISPATCH UFGS-1376 dated: May 1962, U/S/C

CADE

OLUIL

TO : Chlot,

Chief, Task Force W

ATIN : @1of,

FROM.

Intorrogation Rosearch DivIsion

SUBJETI MIYAR, EVOllO DuqUe

1 May 1963

IRD$ 49161

IDENTIPYING DATA

Subfact of thie report la Evello Duque FUYAR, DOXA LA DeCODer.

1926 la Trinidad, Ouba.

sublect me technloatly interrogated on

10 Aps11 1962 at a covert alto la sourh Mlaal, Moxida. Sue latest

no actod as Intorpretor and lacluded such topics do Coumuniss,

ParBORal HISTOrY, vUlneTADIlIty to blackmail; and assocsation visa

lotolligence organizations.

At the requess of the case officer,

Subjact vas aldo askad spoclllo quastions about unlag "nar Desas"

do aube.

CONCLUSION

So has

Test charta do not ladicate any deception to questions portala.

dag to the abova topica.

DETAILS

On 21 Decombor 1961 subject me tilesally polygraphed at walch

81o0 tha polygraph Exaalner statod that subjost, tes concealing 1a-

formilton in the folloving areas:

11o: Pass astonito to blacknall subject.

2. Personal HIStOrY SEAtesAntO.

Pornor Corsialil sympathies.

Arody too a to pollion organisellees otber shen those

:AsTOGs by polico.088101010.

06

as polyprap

SECRET

---

## Page 3

104-10169-10013

SECRET

alin thica as he had heon lauriated 1n dreall engarsing all airivitles

asnoclarad with cha abovo crolca.

murature, pelor to subject's

recent polygraph tear, ho wan thoroughly dobrlefad by Frederlek

06

Henderson, a mabor of the Ci/Staff at sto HAVE statlon. It la ol

Intorost to noto Me. Hendarson'¿ lpresalons of sutlert unica ex

plaloes rathor clearly. the sake up of the man and wily ho bad e

much diffleulty turtag his flost polygraph. coot. Mi. Honderson da-

clared that subjoct'a verbal exprosalon do poor and aldo that ho has

DO extIODeLy dIPELCUlt ILIa vEiLing.

Subject Lacks the ability to

concentrate for any longth of time on one subjost and alno has trouble

In concolviag actual clos and spaca factora.

'In addition, subjoct

had a difficult tloe underacandlag the questions on the PRQ. Murthos

more subject did nor underatand the piliciple of the polygraph 1u-

• atrubone during the fliat tont."'lit: Handereo] aranod that che subjec

had no Idea that the instrument menurad physiolegical changos to

questions miich subjoor assoclated mith hla backgrouad.

•

During the dabelofing; subject donlad that there had bego any

pase attrapta to blackanil him, that ho lled about hia personal blotor

stataments, that ho vas formerly ayuperhotic to Coumuntas, or thes ho

had assoolatod utta political organizations other than thuss alroady

know to 18.

Horover, on the tople of arconte, subjoct doclarad thas $

ho was arrasted tulco under the Barlata Rugles and datainod once uador

the CRotro RoBlon.

subjoct doclared that his fliat arrant odcurred

romerd the and of 1952.

Subjoot atanad that at that tron be van it-

Cing In a barber shop la Havana shon a plain-clothon man hoard hlo

discussing the sogine in uncoaplisontary corse.

subject declared

that he sas arrested, caken to tha second polico atacion la Havana,

and kopt overnight, questionad ln the poralas and colossad.

subject

stated that his socond arrest ves on the 11th of June 1956 uhornho

Mont to Havare iron the sountalao of Becambray ulth a sassago..

Having

porten off at the Ounibus Station, It turnod out that all persons

arrIving at the atation unre picked up, arrontad und Incorroraced.

Ho atalad that ho see abls to axplain hla voy out of the arroot ans.

tron cuba, hourer, It turned out that the allitle mea looklag por.:

another dubai and consequently, subject uns released. During july

grapt concingi subjoct was arkad che folloung specullo quantionai

Beatine the lacasbray front, are you & seaber of day othei

political organiration?

SECRET

---

## Page 4

104-10169-10013

SECRET

2. Have you ever been a penbos of the Cuban Coumualet Party?.

S.. Do you have a socket means of communication with any Con

sualat Intolligonco Servical Masar: Mo..

Ara. you prosently recolulag.ony noney from any Conseralat

Intalliganco Organization! Master: to.

Intelligence Seen A wate

faro you boon asaignad a locrot codo pena by day castro

li Havo you Incontlonally falulliad any of the Personal HLatos)

statosanta chat you bavo Bives val Anorar: No.

7. Are you aor bning blackaaliad? daster: so.

¿evali too you devalned nore then once by the Cuben Roglee?

AAr, 91d you toll un the truth about your adcope leon Oube?

11, levo you over good the vas nate Mesolicol dansari No.

12.. Navo you ones unad the was ness Jpask? Anamors to.

19: Igno you ones unad the vas nama plaudol farver! No.

03

- SECRET

---

