# 104-10117-10112

## Page 1

104-10117-10112.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(Clasaily When Filled In)

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

SEE HR 10-7 BEFORE SUBMITTING TO EAB AN ORIGINAL AND 3 COPIES OF THIS FORM

TO

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATIN:

EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH

THROUGH:

(Operating

official, administrative and/or security officer)

03

DATE

4 Oct 1962

161:

Laployee Fog tear Priarea consoring his

I032023+

cönandü da tado setter.

BID Becurity Officer

NAME AND GRADE OF EMPTONGE

(Print or type) COMPONENT

ROOM NO. AND BLDG.

FROM

Mores, Dandel-GS/4

DDP/OPSERV/RID/RB/IN

1B4003

1. DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED:

Private Stady:

PHONE

6727

Englinh Composition - Mrs. Dorothy Owens

Backgrounds of Civilization - Mrs. Mriam Haskett

World Polltice - Ih1lip l. Burgess

Introduction to Economics - Mr. W1111em Wendt

2. FULL

NAMES OF ORGANIZATION AND/OR PERSONS INVOLVED

American University, Washington, D.C.

3. DATE(S) OF PARTICIPATION AND LOCALE OF ACTIVITY

September, 1962 - February, 1963

Washington, D.C.

4. REMARKS

In engaging in the requested activity I will make no reference to, or discuss

my CIA assignments or duties nor will I make reference to or

*scuss my CIA employ-

ment exeet a at or dutie deadquarters Regulation 10-7. Danil Olor

REQUESTING EMPLOYE

5. CONCURRENCES AND/OR APPROVAL WITHIN OPERATING OFFICE

FOR COMPLETION BY EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

F0.C0T 1062

Dol

Secu

the

Thit.,

her been granted for

airy the request

Stony Division

Ypl

POEM 879 USE PREvIOUS

EDITION.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(9-38)

---

