# 104-10232-10018

## Page 1

104-10232-10018

SECRET

20 Voluber 1961

HEMORANDUN FOR TIL RECORD

SUbJIT: Mooting with Dr. Niro in sow York City on

October 16, 1:01

The rootine with be. Miru on Octuber 16 ba nostruneil tom 10,00

until auch else no bla matienco ton intrd with Candinal Sinliran.

Ho

arrived it ry roor. nt bine 10150. He declared that to Cantal had

went won he lourned the delalla ur the surfering of tie Culnno st the

hume of Gastros deelund that the archlotaton of flunt van't dolng

enough for the Cuban rolanesy that the U.9, waarle Join onouh for

these that Gustro Fust bo ovorthrou. Airo told the Cardinal Eat la

812 Latin Arories tore sore poing to lo orriod acts of ayrpathy

for the Cuhan sufferers, The Cardinal sald le would say a Moss for

uses en Detobor l% Ho initou l1ro to 000 l:1n at any tire.

Miro minored sy query us to the locerit dimirs by slating that

I was very successfuly agito poonle vore inaive the sudlerriur and

anotber 1,000 peo-le outulles that luceri has recolni such appliuss.

The Intor Merican Prosa Assoelation nitalra slao had given an

opportunity to present the Cuban tragedy. He salu Chat le (PIro) had

tol, how Flial had alor 31 people in Septerber alone, and oler coullay

had doscribed how Geminter: was nining tround dey by slays the in

Cuba troy huvo Insinlled a novornel radlo atation broadcuatiny to Intlo

Arerica, thut ton countrion have luken with Cuba, but Argentina has

sot; that avarybody la cuntusad.

He intorted so that no for the documents relating to the Cuban

plots la Argonelna, the Argontine rilitary ron caco lo talk to Verons,

and ho gavo then suno drournnis that hare no ino:tance. The officore

told Verona Partially "ie have no contidance in the ircontine Torolgr

Office," norerthelens, when they arrived there, they Burned over the

docurenta to the foresen Orfice, Mut these decurints had no lenortance,

chey mere scroly to •eronatrate

Uhat there lac lean an extradition of

crementa, an' that they sere originalo. The li rortant locurento are

bold by Varon in tilaul.

Miro said they also viaurlised another act anvolving Lacorda la

Mand, but that his "at infarative" bulget rally does not rovide for

props are setivitles (ouch as tho Currort SIP ani Lacuria affalra), I

countered that 1t vas cunaldered that lila budget mas surticiont for hlo

to conduct soro propaganda actlullloss ouriously sochias on a major

sonlo but sore trlogo.

...

---

## Page 2

Viro declared that internal procaganca and Clarestine: action in

Cube

not be delayed any longer.

that 1t we l

belloved that reamures aro recenry to forent in Cube

the opponition to Castro: "The seosle aro againat hirl" declared tiro.

"But. Increase 16," I anored, Piro Ums siated "If this action doeun't

ator. Iron tho Conuajo (CHC) - not an a: independent agonay, but an

olose cuntuct with you (the diency), i that ve fortent le a sceplato

diuorder in Cuba, and attorario no zorermant can succeed; secondly,

1í' so do sut have a contral plan, and carry 16 out sell in a tore or

loss lied seriod of Luo,

pooTlo (prisoners) by fidel."

"Are this la xy insistence.

lew I ar. arrald to go to MIami.

that

an I Is to1l the peoplo there? What do 1:0l Converel Veamtilo the

Agenoy kopa on infiltrating pooplo inco Cure but disconnecrod frus the

I san told in sy conversatios with the Prosident to ano)ity

the senbership in the Consojo. I rare endeavored lo do thate la tha

Courell ¿core are other croat organizations - dolegates fron euch of the

organizations - that ask me for any, eyraiito, thing, and I a tere

Theresore 1 ruat work uite, goa people in order to see bou

bollete that a woll worked-out plan siat mova good chances of succes

v1lì ca favorably connidered."

"Elow about arun for the Incantregy" asked Miro.

I replied that

It was ry understanding that urms for ire Iscarbrey could only be

landed on the North Coast, how then wait, they let to the Enchbrey?

Miro suld that the boat which had mard zery trips (working for YOU),

would bam to astablish cornunication sor; tin out when they would plei.

up the arra, vhat cannot ln done 10 avertes Cavuldo Rarires in 41a

situatlon o? angulah becauue he 18 te oaly renl regional foous of

resistanse thut there la there, and be ras teen reully loit ju a desperato

situntlos lor three rontha.

I Intorposed that there seered some cuestion about the paper from

Ramirez king for arns, rother 18 vas ve real thin".

Idantifiod" ronlled Miro.

"o asrured that it la perfectly Irentlfled and

requeats have

through difterent channelo ankine, for these arue.

I aT 8411l balting now for a month and a loll.

All you hava to do 1a. toll

un the moans of collvery, the neo-lo ex contact and then coliver to our

I sz $z111 walting, and eriticia los

Cubans against Insotion) Ineransea dailyo"

"Ill tho delegationa of revolutierry croupa in the Council 3à se

for arza and ceans for Lightlng.

Eut I cannot provide then anything.

Meamt Ilo the Agoroy 10 Infiltrating moie Into Cuba without counting on

the Cornojo for anyt!:ine.

This puta 18 15t0 an abaurd position - rely

« "cowr.ell sainted on the l'all."

I kaTe sald, "look for somone olse 11 1

ar not echaldered able to do the job lut we sust work. I have confidence

In the henney, but I cannot vork in tr18 Iachlon."

---

## Page 3

What have thoy aald

I raultod, that there is a problem of the reane ol

delivery, that the

at present appears undesirable. The

Ambassador lan't thero, holl, to look for another reins; the

anyti'ing - those peonle need i oney" he countered.

things," he declared.

"I" now like a person in a shirring pool

without water."

*For three oni a half months l've strucelod to maintaln a

revolutionury spirit.

My rilitary reoplo are waiting t1ll I urrived and

toll thei,

"this rust be done, that nust be done. sociing jot! And without

any -lan, I don't go unywhere; nowhere!

"The other tire I sent with by eyes closed, through faith.

fallure and the lullure foll upon ro. I cannot proceed under auch circui

stances in no way.

I'ye askad for $50,000 to send in to the unierground.

The Fussians Aro ponding $400,100 in propagania and havo leua than the

we srall not comproriao the U.s.

Toll ne the way to send it in. The

Counail 1s to ald them, not serely to conduct teetings."

"On that roquest they haven't renlied anytring?" he asked.

I snobored

that on this 1ter, I had made known Miro's desire, but that so far nothing

had been resolved.

"I's not corplaining," lo stated, "but for three ronths I have beon

asking for a cor. ict with the authority

to resolve.

getting nothere.

when I return now I shall be asked, "not bout 1t?" and

must answer, 'You will have to wait because I have nothing." ind meanwhile

the Aguncy koops on Ini'iltratina people Into Cuba Incorendent of the

Consejo.

Let us to back.

Without being in agroerent, I cannot serve you.

I have no Interest in presiding ovor a Couneil that 1a of no uee."

I pointed ot that the Counoil must continue to orist, with him as

Its prosident, as the coordinating body uf the resistance roverent, but

that there are cortain difficulties in nutting the student or labor activi

tles under the direction of the Council; that those groupa are now functloning

officently and that I trustid that he could see the problers of completely

changing their control, direction,

and coordination. I added that I

believed that he should know sorething of what they are doing and that I

belloved that

should be kept Inforced.

"I know absolutoly nothing," he raalled.

"what cares to no la fron

these sane individuala.

I era

not in agreerent with that, I't becoring ridlo

culous. Under these circunstanoes I cannot continue. I have planted the

probler of tho underground, the probler of the collatoral organizationa

(that ho sould l1ke te havo in Council by teing their source of support

and coordination), of the ingistrates, and now you bate soon shet ALABAU has

done (proclaining GARCERAN a president of exile goverment), sto la wor

ins with you people, and you have seen the reaction of the State Departrent.

How Jostoriay ALABAl 18 publishing nolitical denuncistions arainst the

Coundid. I have discussed the matter of the : agistrates with the C.I.A., I

don't remember the nato of the person.

A ronth has paosed and the other

raglatrata (those with ALABAU) baven't beer stooped (in their activities)

abd they haven't had elentiona ad I requested to seleot another loader."

---

## Page 4

14-00000

"The studenta are estimiAl their activities. I bollare that I bave

sometiing In sy hond an a kanis for the iterination of what should ba

discussed in the Couneil vie ra; and in agreerent with you; but thee

existing eircursances, wits! any conection, sale it so that I cannot

continue the clandestine ale.

so the firat proble., I presented your reply.

mie shall se."

To the sero, probler, the collateral organistson

which continua the sure as entores the third probler I presented, on arca

to nerd ia, nothing.

tre lourt, probler, the propagunra oçaration "Griot"

that I shoved you, nothieé." I reclled thit on the latter I red discuused

the ratter, tal 16 vas, l tallaves, a suggention elven to rIn in the Departo

rent. or Stato.

"If to don't bako prosarando all send arta Irto Cuba now, 1L'a velosa,"

he declared.

"And I cano: re-ain in allenco." I rerlied tut I lollevod

quito a bit of propagarda ses leire coniuctod. "Yes, but Incorendent of the

Co:ncile

I CANUT L' A PITlE Theg (the Arency, knep on dauling with the

MaP, with the Unidad Pevolicirr1o, and they haven't entered Into the Counoll

sionly becaus they ura in riget contsct with the Ayency, Trus It appeara

that nose of the urculers it I look lip with you sone twenty daya ago have

been resolved, and I'll tare o take another solution. I rant to know the truth

1I I'= not ecceptable, I'll inate ard sithout any scardle inatacuver. I haro

sallowed all the eritlete, in ry oun heuue, in silence, an though I vore

responsible fur averythinz,

¿ carnot continua

to do chls are be doing nothing.

I carnot be a puipot! I Lite so arts to fire."

He reiteraied that not ise had boon senolved on any of tis requeats and

proresalo, am: that he co'ale continue thur. That ho could quil, go to

Pierto lileo an a prochonor. Be edded te would want to ork nitt. us. Ho then

referred to tro sets of line-s in. dew York, which had cost sour thousand

dollars, plua passara, a riGhtnicus sur spend frcs the idinistrative Budget.

"a hure pald the masare, hia living coots lore." he said.

"How I co to flari la. I bave lo face the organizations grouped tato

"Aira for eterytere?" "I havon't anj. All the orgarizations troo

wheeling there atle!. den't is? to Join torether locaine tray tre working

directly with your peosle." I said this sas unfortunate and askid mother

there eculd not to sure lost:? realizit. contacta with ther vithout noce

mrily channellain their facert ard dimation inrough the Council, such

as by foruins i comáttoe siore tre lines I had suzested la Minal.

Miro then relerred li the spreerent roched in the shire House neating

Wich tr. Gooruin, Mr. boodward, with certleren ne the C.l6Ao, ard with i'r.

Hurvita. Firit,

"Trat the chi; Palan trut is recortired 19 the Coneejo (CRC);

IT 1150 1s the :orson of cu cordidenco and uill tave an aá iniserstive

budget which he w1ll aonur.. am w1ll renort lutar the extenses of coordina.

Elon, sa: that any other erases, propaiaria er clandestine activity, vill be

paid by the loney; for tbi triilera of the orgarizationa in the Couroll there

Will be a ecntact lo assist is borking out their solutions; that ly to say,

that lio: 5 prollers ol Coals ass. uns." Another puine vanithat in case there

no argarinations that do so choose to join me couch ur ture lion o

porfectly Inforred 1a nitasce of me rattors at hand and vill give hia

---

## Page 5

C""T

-5-

(CRC)• I have coven, to work with jou, with no, vita the reople sho an

going to carry vut the activitios, with the people that I denignato.

Nothing of that de juing done. Then what they want do to work alone."

"I u1ll not contimo. I usll not continue sum the tino I soture to

Miami. I have gone on for fiva ronthe,

atruggling. I cannot socopt thie

•Itustlon. I have tiled to pull together those proupa as naked in the

Whtte House. I haven't succeeded in rrouping any rore, because • I want to

epeat clearly in order to rerain pood iriendo albaya - because you huve

proventnd 1t. The atuenta havon'e joined, not because of no political

reanon, but seroly locause you aunport ther: directly. "reamably the hiea

In that in Chie lay the seourity of this nation la better saloguaried.

A Consejo was desired to sorro as the coordimtini group and to provido a

reans by which the United States would not appear to to intorvoning in Cuba.

It there lo to De a Consojo, 1t must have all the dignity os a Counoll.*

«When I try to form a Counell, grouping all elevento logother, they

want to work, sho vant to do thingo. This 19 all Indecondent of the Council.

And some work for a dostruation of the Council. I cannot tolerate this. I

have a son who 1a a prisoners either I know the plane, and I lnow the carouter

and the probless that they are going to carry out, or I, when I arrive in

Mlanh, will say, "to," and send void to tanhington. Lot them do without we.

There will be aoneone who will submit to these things, but not I."

*And of the sour Itons that arcaney pronised te to resolvo, there

• have not been reaolved any, and I find ejsolf in tha dark.

And I as. very

aorry. I ar not suing to cororcrino the security or thia Natlon, but

noither up, I poins to conprorise the situation of those toja. when they

Jimappeared, lont their lives, etc., I was conitonted with "And you ure the

presidont of the Coinoll." I carnot remaine in this way.."

•I haven't been able to kroup together anything. I Vas proniaod that

the ragistratos would all incorrorate together (into the Council), but

that rascal ALAIAU 1s workins against the Counell and I have reason to

bellove that he is doing it with Avercy aupport, utherwise how would he pay

for his politio: l donundlations." I responded, that I lolleved this could

not be tre. Ho shouted, "I kave rxprensod my sealtion to you, and I want

you to get an answer when you can. If tana prollers that I have set forth

do not have an temediato ablution, I as not'to kuor and to dispose of

relative actiona to be taken, ten how, in view of my situition, ruat I do.".

He asked about the nlan for clandestine sabotage action by cortando

raid, that he had giron us, and what bad core of it. I replied that he munt

• rallze that the study of such a plan necesarily was alow and must l

conidared by rary. He said he was cominced that there bas no Intention of

accepting such plans, and that shile now ve diacuas auer plans, we lose out.

"I cannot accept this altuation, nor would you."

---

## Page 6

932 T

He then oald that he could in ahead and silasulve lie Counall, and lat

over a reaninglen councily ust thie was not a tront, lut he would stip

that he continue as henri oi the Gounoll, He sonliod, "Hut they

de rolteratra that ha harl: Innted four aroblers, none of wilch ina

reen resolvod, rolteruted thet io led planed lie pronana probion a

long tine ago, but that: ropagarla continus inimponient os

the Connoil

and couple era no:t out ilke thase lo the Cou-ruin of :tuiont In sao

Enlo, wiore they reneut e iren 11hn purrots wilch cure no with lazlo.

Averican sullences.

»I huve askad for ames oltror dive su cassivo ald, une, to, three

r.1ma100 = batovor la rece:our, becauie this 1a to Joatroy Cormunia,

and me'll tuto our niune, hr valli furnish the dead, fer so con do no

Pore. no rust work in arreeront, lacause nos ouch time that 1 suak,

1tªy sue niall seo, un nre colno lo stul;," - and rothing lapnens. No,

40, I srall not preoldo ovur. arother Couroll existl: unier these

circu

I have often arent 2o hours wiehout alooping, layine to pull

togatior the groupe, and menntire, problois arise on dll oldes. Why?

Becaure so long as other prouce iat suncort, they von!t entor

the Council.

The MP 18 In connot with you und arteine arras now the Unland Rovolu

clonario. I rerain the siliculous no. Alrowly Ilvo nuifored a lot and

have a son nio la a prisoner

And love talkeil a lot during theau daya,

and I keen on heini a nupunt, vut vorse than a vunret, leciuse a suppot

Im sored, tut I's not even roved."

Therifore, I say to you that the grouns that want to bork with us,

you, the chief of thut grous, and 1, be oubt to rudolve all these quentlones

for exarole, wit!, the chiud of the millery group, keene he has culled

cogether the protassional amy ard le robel amy (oloronto, and the ary

of ilkeratiun, such un Varnlo, Botus, lino und tho boys, sho tave core

fror the irigade," Me declured that SUTi 1o a fighter, la willing to

return to Cuba, sud that he harl great conflionce in Sirls.

I assured him that the logalization of soTUji resiconco Nould be

arranied, and that Yr. Ruruite Infored so thit he bolleved sorething

could to dono for the other three roturnees wiose naren fi. f'iro had

Do • MiTo rostoratod that to rust sposk clearly, that he could not

continue thus an a travelling presicont without having anyting to sive to

his coo:le - nothing to the undorerun! through Countl notion; nor could

he be ignorant of blans which he opponed whero Cubana so out to die, ana

nen ravirl their relativos core to lili da responsible. He declared, "I

don't vant to live on a budget, preaide over an ad inistrative office,

rocoIve poorlo, toll ther lios, soyine, "No mall see," The ren sho are

---

## Page 7

14-00000

?="

hore (1n Counell) roprusenting organisations suat know somothing of what

lay uno going to do and if they sak for 40 rifles, l aust bo able to eay,

"Hore they are" - nut to give ara directly Into their hands - hut througt

• contact for thie.

Othernioe you people nake your plane, and I'll rotire

frus evorything. and le anaured that never, nover will I any a single vord

against the linney of the Undled States, novery nor extluin reasons which

ahouldn"t be explained.

"I! I nannot have the responalbility that I should have, I shall not

Jond ryBolf to what ray rosult in a tragedy, Muno of the problemo I have

planted have been rusolved not that of tha

rry istraton nor that of the

Encubrey, nor the romy to le undergroun, line boon rosolved, not the

clan of propagamla that I euve you. I cannot continuo to ait in an office,

shilo you continue operatin, as you wiah, with my silont cunsent. You mey

chom nozeone elsa like Mr. Goroy, who le sekine tor orma..

Choone and

ne mother hia dare will save Cuba. Jou am suing to croate another Fidel,

Who la nothing.

could not be rosolund in such a short tire. He roturnod to the a recront

that "plana of notlon do discused Jointly, thil 1l there were objectiona,

that the objoctiona be discuaned. He suld thero had been no objeotlone no

Iar to dincuras nor objectiona to propaganda plane. lo wus to have contoot

with a re;resentative of C.I.A, to seet with mpresentativan of organisan

thona that went in collaborate, and with Dr. Viro i nothing doveloped on

Chatl la declared that he ahould have knowledgo of the notivition ot

thone that don't sent to collatorates and sald euch day there will to nore,

toonus they want to suin the power for thermolvon, to act on their oun

acount.

Ho said he knows thoro 1a a "Jin" and a "Robert" and others that

are dolng thinga.

at ho do too in

I assured hir he must realize that there were sary problena

involved

la bla proposals and that tire vas essentlal to work thes out. I serinded

h1s, of kla conversation with tr. Coouwin and the lattora atatos ent to the

offoot thut them could he no thought in the foreseendle ruture of a mili

tary oterat1on againat or invasion of Cute

Miro countored by referting lu

hie converastion with the President on 18 July and hia (Niro"o) corplaint

of inactivity.

He sald the Preaidont pronosed the recrulting of Cubane In

differont unita of tho Amy for training so ao to utilise thor: at tha

opportune tine, anil that the officors would be inviend to our sililary

schoold.

Miro sald he had rathered

3050

of the military torother and in-

forced them of tila etter, and tha taxt veei he vas culled to diedina tha

renulting, wilch be aproved.

Ther Gonera! Herahey went to see r's at

hia house, lolling hle this Cubans wouldn't be santi lo Berlin or any such

plare but hopt in the U.3, avalluble for une later. Viro said, "I there

la to lo no Invasion, then lot'e utilize the underground, uhich neede are

und roney,"

60057

---

## Page 8

Ho main repeatod, "More rust to raanire propaganda, peo adly arras

se shall furiah the ciead, but I need to enou allou are ne going to dia."

He cumentod that ho was going to ant that his photo, raph not be put on

the oover of n cortuln sagasino hocure he didn't know other ho was

going to continues that in the present elre matanoos ho didn't see hou do

could continue.

Apain I urged that le ruse do so, l that I 10lt cortal

that se could moulve nue of lio prutoslo, protubis not to the extent

that ho desirer, but at least in surt, but that tino was nocesarmy to

acoonalish this,

He repostial that the Counoil soods es tave sire oblonsalon in Cuba,

but the Apency koons on unertakin notior a witiout my conction with

the Gounell. Furdar, that he nuat lavs the ratin for echouetsony prof

vande, aust nu outlinid in the "Operullen Griot," He nakod so when could

I alve tir sore unovers. I repliod that diring the current wok I expected

to havo rootingo in miich these cattoro muld lo disoussed i the topartient

of Stato, with 15. Goodwin, with representatives of the Agancy, and that I

hopod thut aurothing would in resolved, but that he must reallze that lary

neoplo am involved in auch mutters and aslutlons are rot reached quicklyo

He reiteratad thut ho had to leon telling: 1s 0ryrad-at1on 1916 a 111610

longupt and that thia wan becorine miarrassing.

Then he brought up lila proposal of Mirina, Yin and the Council eo to

Cuba, saying

enorhapa it would be arvantaguous that I die In Cula, Chat

the Council ask reonition iron. Cuban so!l and the military ald of the

United Statoo • all lo talo place witiln de 10ur%,

He ndánd, "I hare

told you of the mustion of Girdinal Sellran, the hove done vory tadly

I racinded hir that despite tho urgercy tint we all reco nizod in the

Cuban situation and sta Uhroat to the briter Statos and 12l tho Aborteas,

there are rony other world problera - Luna, ierlin, ote., -utilel alon

occupy the attuntion of our coverrrent esenie.

Then I wald I wished to take advartag of our rooting to uak him cor

inforation ralntive to hia curront budgots firat, did he bellove that

there were any poorle rocuivine i sulary ire the Council wo might also

to colling financial uld iror. M.E.i, He sa'd,

Pro, I rould nover part 1t

tbat." Then he declared that he lind two days of oper tini won ho staortod

the personnel of the virious orinizations bre, the CHC:

either do cit off

their onlarico auldenly, or to put ther to sorr. for thair nays that tre

"no:18u" (c8y2011) rres a littlo bit lociure ke hau to lako in cortsin

neoulo, and thist he conaldered: 19 alsorbit them was secorine to the

rolley

of C.I.A. Then ho ieclared that the raxirli

beret'it recalved by

rofugees fros. Hot, No sas $100 per in sly serientr, ani thit no where bere

could as farily live a: a hunired a rontlie

Hence, le did not fael that te

could cut off the rebile on the staffs o? the cic

organizatiors, and sard

ther to the HE wi

SEP "T

---

## Page 9

LEST

"The nones for the unierground le ruch and contact la doubtrul, an

•noune, The problem of Cuba costa a 106 of :croy! The pooulo os the

Encambry - 1t'o Alificule to lollver arrio lo then? But ue ano poine to

run that riot. The un a aro guine to be lunti voll, riaka munt le taken."

Miro aguin referrod to tho pruupe that din't vil to colliborato with the

Counoll but vouli cullaborato dirretly with the Agenoy anting that ha

had omobod 14 uni utill arusod 1t, that ho recrived a very acrootlunato

letter making hin. to boy work out all the srablois toween us ond sccept

a nolutlon, aml that a mprusentallun would to dostonitod to work with ling

thet I had anared and he had woont two very plesant daya with res that

I wan vory umerotardina; that tronty daya dad magel of croat irgletyo

(""ot twenty but ten," I Interoued.) in auld ho figurd that irobably ha

lIght have amy and lein for the undereroul am know nhout niund of action

and had folt strenthened, "Euts ho sle,

anow I tual knocked down. lione

of the plans or propaganda provom:la have been accoutod, none. The firing.

sall in Cuba continuna funetionine, 31 daad in 31 daja.

by realmation hag

been urition long ago, und I an ready to subr 19, 1t da soon as I retury to

881ar.1a"

noclarod that he nuat not du that, that be tust havo patlence.

that

Lt inkes timo en rosolvo Chene thinga: He reciiod that he has boon walkin

sInce Ayril und montloned all the sufferin' he lad gone through, attacke

by everyons, rothers of prisoners arl doul, the Arerican Preas, Forture,

Tine, Lifo, Now York Tinna, otce, all against 1In alore: with ALABiU Trllos,

and othorag and that he had numortod all o! a.la in allonce. He had been

asked 1t it vore true thut thore was no alr am'ort and harl not anavered.

"The other time I kept my lips cloned with ato lute laltli, the nost 81e I

shall luvo my eyes open unt have rany quontlong.

I don"t un eraland how

you peonlo can donl with sore of thee unknown Cubans.

Ho said, "I've fiven many proofs of loyulty to you, that they attribute

to me the othur day in Miari that "thern wouid be an invuston in a low

raya", that 19 not true. I havo a tapo rocorainy ef what I sali wich vas

"very soon (without ventioning uny dato) in Cuba there would le unveilod

the crout Pascuss (resurroction) of the Fatherlard, And the presa has niem

Intorproted Puscuss us the Pascuas do Navidar (Crintass).

"Thue the prent comes out with state: ents attributed to Dr. Miro that

tno Inmaton v1ll lake place by chriatras, cornletely a lle And rothing

I1ko what I sold," I conooded to tr. Ilro that in had surfered a trerendous

nuber of atencks in allence and that the praisi bai ovor a perlod of tle

core out with critlenl rearts. I naked his. If ln planned to pass through

lamIngton bofore roturning to Miami and he sala he din't have money for

such expensoa, that tis wife was torribly vorried about toir song but

that he would have to ruin In New York witil lodnenday to attord the

Junctoon ior all the editorg of the Intin A: erican press, tho bunt to don-

vorse with hin, to help with propagands but ulticut costing the U... &

cent.

LEST

---

## Page 10

corninstore within the CRCe finaco, propoganda, clandestine, r 1l1larg,

organiention, ole. The mea who are ro nood or don't sant to work, he

amld, he would out off, but that he couldn't Just fire sereone muldenly.

He then mald solarios vero mall @ $200, 8225 per conth as an average

except for particulir individuals, such as hio unlatant Arayon, a vory

the varlous organizations who work "full

L1no" and recolve 3400 ench, further that he planned to give ench organisa

thon appruximatoly $700 por sonth for their operating cxpenaos, soro loady .

some a little nore • (MRR, Hescuto, 30 de Nov, 20 de lays, AAd Inderend-

Lontoo, Montecriat1):

Mion I queationed whethor the fonteoriati orpanization was ut111 in

the CIC, he said 1t. was, that only Junto Gorillo had dropped out of the

CHC but cho trous cerained in and had e now head. He adled that he had

just had a requout fron Carillo to provide his (Grillo) with a thousand

dollares chal Carillo had photographlo coplos of sono checka tit he had

posa, to waldo frank for proporania activitles arainet Cute and that

CarIlloma nsking roimburrent but Miro sald he didn't sunsider he had

to piro 1e to Carillo.

Returning to tho budgot, Miro Said, "Thero are the vurious erployoems

there in the lten of tripo; Chero aro tie military jeoplo grouped under

the military cominalon - I cannot lot thei, aufior risery There ore no

tudento on the payroll beceuse they are baing nupported by you (the

And right there a difference 1a established betseen those in

the Counail and those who recoive rondy (rot the Agonoy directly, which

1e moro than that ruceived by ry people. see how you (the Axency) with

out intending to, and for reasona of lunecurity, are gulny to destroy

the Counoil." He then atated that ho hud placed Alvarer Dias, who bad

been finlater of Finance, in charge óf finance mntrera baosuse he (Miro)

could not be everywhere, and to male certain that no exiends were paid

on which they were not in agreeront, and wiich Paust would carry out.

I quarrled shother Paula sould curtinuo an accountant, and Miro sall,

#certainly, un accountant. "

He aald that everyone has beon

coring to him

(Mirc) with all irdo of pleas for monay and therefore it was nocessary

to bayo Alvaroa Diaz In hero so that he and Paula sight rosolvo the finanoo

matrora. Miro addad vorda of pralee for Paulo, "It's like I want to havo

for each section of the Counell, Ille I vanted Conto Aguero to handle

propaganda, but since he la roceiving noney

Bron jou (the igoros) he

doesn't want to, I have to have soreone to take this lond off of ro; firat

as 1n Naval affalro, soreone to lock for boats, aran, etc."

I asked about testro for properanda und Miro replied that lestre 19

no good, never was of value; thut he lad leen vut in charie of the propa

ganda cominsion proviously and sivon $4i, 000 ronthly, but had done nothing.

Then he launched Into a critiola of the Swan proparanda; that it bas a

aharo, handled by Batlatianos: Fernandes VARELA, & Cutholies Suares

Fernandes, a senator in the epoch of latiota, He natad another (sounded

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

11-

11ke Chau Millor) a lad person and n Intiutero fire said ha had naked

Chat juan lo sear:ed tut, since they wore directly, these people are

defended.

He adiad wryly that he winhod they (the hyercy) would defend

hIm (Miro) that way.

He said thoy (the hrene?) had nosod the urotle: five monthe ano. in

Muri relative to Jonyuin, jagelo, a Cuhan wo va working with tha

counalt and has surind currificently, but thon he necepted work with the

C.laA, and continua dolni thio fari do i shatever lio: lees) Intol

11,once, ams, 50cr.11186, ate. m and will have rotting to do with the

Council.

Again Miro declared tut he had the hliheat regard for Paulo und

couldn't desponse uiti: hir, had aven provoad his nro to lo the lociatrate

of the Tribural el iccounto in thu futuro soverrent of Cula. I udded

my underatardli, Cial Frolo had dono an excollent ob, sarticularty

santonine him handliny of paying dorender.ta, a melculous end arduous

Miro excialros thnt he had never eonaldered replacing, Paula but

mruly beaded Alvares blaz to handle dotally with faula. He 8010 every

•no in 1:1471 laowa 1: 18 Puila sio hao the poroy to rako payonto by

check, and that he thought 1i would lo hotter for the jeople to get pay-

In cush aal slyn a recolot; thit soretlion senore i lpht rob Pauln

ani thon people u1ll sul "gro: Miere dora this soney core, a since the

Cubena havo no ¿oney,"

Then Dr. HIro sald he would like to clarity any doubtfil question. I

ashod whother hs hnd received any other communloation fort the Encambray

group. He 50:l1e1 thre to tarl rot, but that the one had core through the

Montocriats troun ani they cortinuor to sek hi: for this arra ald.

asked whether any changes or additions had been zade in the Counell at the

Orrobar 10th sootine.

He reylled that the MRP had not answered his 1na

vite cause the wei way to the ne on that to oare

choy have a cologuto in iastington who lu socking ilrect contaot with

Uss, Govergent Agaicles.

MIro then duelared that in ordor to call a Counoll leoting, he had to

bavo a proas confarerco or a préso rolento (abit, calling a CHC rooting)

vero igninat oll t: 18, and were doubtful

whether to core or cot to

with Conte

iquero and with Ar

polluno bany hours.

Arrellarn 1a a fuchrer, if things aren't done su he

Junta, he son't co along, Mornover, he has u atrong antierlean

sentlone.

I talied to

ther, but they said, "Ks."

problo.al their lack of confiderce in the Covermart, and ry contradictory

view that wa wunt to be with them (ait. 11.5. ).

I woula like to huve had

to call a Council soothig altont by forco.

Therefore I cecidod to have

no meeting and no press conference, and to oome hare (to lew Jork CIty),

There was no mession !

9007

....

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SEO 77

12-

"The Instlullanos une rory veil orgarised and riso the frio Sollowers,

salting for ra la do

posething, and I connot do angeling. I"= like 8t.

lawrence, roasted on une sido and fried on the other."

I sained bother la Cou oil was looked mon too luch as a politionl

ontaly rither than a unirying nojium. kiro ronlied, "Those people (Prio

Alabau, eto.) bunt to obstruct the ones wio are fightta: Castro througl

the seulue of the Counail, They are dividod into tho arcura: (1)

Politiciara, Prio, iloneo Pujol; thoar that vart to la thi directora,

(2) The rouna that want to act ulthin Cube bho don't dare lo Join CRO

but rather to deal diroctly sit: you neonle in order to have the pover

morrow in bubuy neople only of action, hut :ot of corion songe and w

annot roan ruch to the future of cuba: defit would cause another em

1lko that of Fidel, who 1s rothing but a student.

That la extreroly

dangerous.

You give those neole the menns and if one of then over.

throws Fidol he la the one sio assumes rower.

He ray be a food man of

action but only 21 or 19 jenro old and not one who can orlent Cuba In

the way nf derocracy.

Artor raschine 40, couple think differently.

rightors are capable of currying iut the action you give thei to do, but

not to govorn. "l

Dro Miro continuod to evell on lls concern as to the future 1f these

youns fighters are given a frue hand to do no thoy please, that care nuat

Do taken ao to who 10 sunportod, that these mople are the unen vo don't

want to work with uns that the iNP hodea that 1t will bo die ore who will

laid torarrow In Cuba, thut onos of the future will de sorething to which

you the U.3. has nontilblitod by suprorting such clements.

Dr. Miro correntod in further detail his viava und again hairerod on

the manner of uning funds to avoid being like the ostrich.

knows where the money is coming fros and io hava to be carenil or the

Evaryone dons int know of you, but of whore the hale is coring

"o aro the pulleicos of the was unainst Castri," afrimed iT. tiro,

Lot a illitury ier. function in chief of staff as

Jong nade silstary action

#guinat lastro continues, but then the civil action rust be carried out

ly non-rilitary con."

He added that during tho softeningun action arainat Castro, l

rust take good care of the raneer in which thi: iction is taien en arcid

asrosing: the 115, suork, ind that he considered that the colliteral,

Incependent arouna vere not safeguarding it; so so are luals the

as you !U.:, Arencion) deal with esch of those crous.

Are to rust not

lose, so sust sin.

SEETT

---

## Page 13

14-00000

told LI. VIro that I ma arlous to were out sore manner of 1iflsa

hese groupe vie. is. Miro and the Council, wittout laving to channel

direction and fince through Di. Miro, since lose groupa aro now funetlon

Ing woll under salating arcangerento.

Dr. PIro a-ld he sould lo rlessed to vet with ther oulside of the

Council, and they vay continue to lunation as collateral organization

Indeperdently; lit wat troy malise that thay tave one direction.

ET.

viro aried tres 1ixe the literendent magistrates vith their attitude

they, are injurite the Couneil.

Do. Mino extented that he unted the racistratos to have an sleetlon

He reiterated

that all the coiletral organisations runt orerate within the orbit of leo.

Coune11, and that te would be glad to discusa vith ther their opinions

Just an ho an s profesaor had dore with stucertsoften tires resulting

In excellent, treas and viespointe.

Then I saltined that I hud read in one o€ our magazines a laudatam

1tem describirg nis detonatrated capabilities an a bedlator lotween

political froza and individuals.

should furnes tarough the Counoil becauso every Cuban has a sense of mell

that inclina!' to go where he knows the sorey is dispensedy that this 1a

sad bur true, em that those to are stil outalue and hope to rot direct

support,they cont that the roses vas here (ln t.la handa),

running without arzine. He then said that he had seven hundred collare,

more or less, or each organisation's operatinz azpenses. He conoluded

by aaying that be didn't wiah to operate uithout us (Agency) or without

any of the Avency saonlo, but neroly desired to pull together the divare

croups and oliar activities.

Ho then s'erried to dia comersations with Ys, Barle and General

Taylor, and i10 vies expressed to then that in the april affair he felt

that the Agerey ied funetioned mure or leas alicetively - soretires

their people kad been "sough", or "tough", but that he lad no complaint;

that the lack o! aft cover no doubt caused defeat.

querried by rero. ers and other on specific questi-no designed to pry

secreta out of ril, to had replied, "y didn't see ter," or eltillar

evanlons, and taus had endeavored to be lojal to sa.

He said his son had been certain that hia father would be with tha

expeditionary force,

and, ln route to the Bay o! Piga Mor Gunterala

the don had searched for hir on the boats, and vas disillusalonad because

hia father male there.

---

## Page 14

14-00000

LF0E2T

Again he orphasised his viev that the stuients sent to Lutin Aerican

countrles on propaganda elesiona should be indoctrinated by veople in the

Conell to prepare them for the croad amrining that they would undergo,

and thereby prepare the againat trans und foolinh statorenta, and to

Insure that do Bstluta noporturg vere sent out. He erphazised that one

of the firat questions autri of there propagande en lanuries vould be

"%1tà unst roney do jou como here?" ""hat Yankeo organization is behind

you."

he auded, "The peonle have to be wall urepared to ansuor; just an

I bad to undergo a siocession of penetrating questions when I first vent

into drile In Arsentine ani could answer ther without healtation because

of a clean mcordo.

spain ho cune back to his urgurent that the collatoral orcanisatione

should notion through the founeil - notiorgotting the Aconcy, dut not

being forgotton by the Agenœy."

I told IT. Miro that I hoped during the

course of the reek to bave a nerios of conversations in the course of

union cortain decisions and solutiong would la reeched that vould enablo

me to sit down with fin the following took and work out sore detalls on

propajanca ant other ratters.

ay. Miro then askod, "How best can the security of this mution be

Insured - the Agony dealing Ulroctly with those people or working with

the: through tiro?" And he esphanized that he was concerned hoth with

the security of Cuba and of the United States, and that those people

(Cubans with whor the Axoney la doaling 'Iractly) at any nosent when

they felt they were losing, out or here not sufficiently pald a rould

aok for soro, and, boing Cubans, right la very indisereto, but that 1r

they had to deal with Miro they would be obligated to go to hir with

their complainte. He sald thut just as a bee seeking areots vill go to

any source, but 1f there la crly one source it will so to that ones and

that thus all grouna Luat look to the Counall.

Aga1o Dr. Miro roturned to 11a thouls that soonor or lutor there surt

be sar to overthrow Custro, ani that Cutars and Acoricans bust reallse

this; that as s prolininury the Cubend must carry out sabotage, otc.y

but Just us blockades didn't overthrow Iranes or l'unsolini, reither sould

they cause the fall of Cantroj Nurthur that If suborage san conducted with

out being a part of an overal plan of rissions, the people Inalde Cuba

mould sons to react adversely to the sabotage and allen thercolves with

Castro.

He then expressed hia view that tien lo toing sadly wasted in trying

to trini the latin Acerican countries Into agreerent with the U.S. against

Castro, because, untortunately, rary are ruled by dictators and troy fear

concerted action againat therselves, but if the V.S. attacke and destroye

Castro they u11l aoplaude hiala ho roposted Chat the Punta del Esto

«greerent night vell cause zany countries to Bay, "Thank you Fidel, and"

note thank you Mr. Rennedy."

Dr. Miro emphasized that he vanted to collaborate with un fully. Thea

the contersation turned to the dissolution of the

IRD by Varons, and Dr.

Miro declared that tilo sles was difficult for-l'arona, lo late because be

---

## Page 15

14-00000

har toon 1t0 cheef and in a tigh sonition and had thus aubrileted l the

Council.

He declared hla enteer lor Varon, a vory trunguo son hut very

Ho on1j Vurona had declared with remoct to the Argentine

docurants thit, "They are in Miami. I don't fool 11ke sendiny thor to

Arventina bacaude they don"t telone to Artentia.

They tolony to the

Ex 109g iat 1= Castro, Argentina has cirloratle rolotiona wish Cuba and

18 18 feele 11ko 1t, w1ll

, send the docurento to Cuba."

Varone declared

1a We SIF Cat the Arrontin millenry ren harl decoivod Lin lecause,

haviny sinted that they didn't trust the Arientine torolen Oifico,

they

neverthnlesa took to irrentine the three doour ento thet vero fiven to

Loi an: ur0n arrival turnod the over to the Forolen Orfice, Viro

edder trat Unrora stitod l' 1a clearly la the 31P rooting whore 140

Argertire delerates wore procento

They said, ", It'out sentioniny noses,

Factor, do you inclare ll 1a lefore the SIPg"

"9o5, 'I dachero 10," 10

rajiled, "and they alst up.

"Lot thor give wi

2990 arced that Vuron had declared last no ini Whoover has then,

ams e, finish off with Chatro, lut sive ther

elve ther, to um! Dr. Miro then deolared,

no e1 williny to siserbark,

out her so era Juat olayin;:! lule and nook,"

Tis. Furo then refore to his view that linrlo do las Aroriena

Brould receivo a croll subsidy; thut asretimes 1t sublimed articles

anfavoratla to the liod, hur thet unully, and 1i' subslilzed, vould ellainate

adverse 1t0r.s.

Tren I roturred to the nubjart of the blulget und concern hat sore on

We Courell rajrail riht also bes on H.E.l. payroll.

He repllar thut tor

Octorap in would have thor swar that thay were recolving no ather amnoy

ars rerarker that rary ara in the reyroll. Mo erwerited the different

sections - delogationa in latin i erican countrirs, caci, pereon (Luo uT

true at rost in each country; raceived only erough tu live cris without

ОрОГЕВІИ

funn, lie sald ener, chie? of orgarisationiin the Couroll recalved

14.0, "shich is very

little.

Ho adder that duriny tie ruat i orth with funds late ovor,: he hail sert

to testen 83, co bonuso go: e di soonle dur arrived thore In

need and

hubery, He as1d C.I.A, Died With :9,010 unt ho had sent $3, 000 inenuse

trEy were CuLars.

Further, that se had,rovida! auch organization wilt. 8700

los alo expenses of lallini, offle 8, car, ceco, tut list tuto mucait, a

Ho adied tut whatever ves leit orer be initod to soir lo Cuta

e tose to so ilpatine there.

Ho coclared, "As for so they ear roduce tha culect to the tinir

roviser thai they and finds to Cutes but ay roblera rust le resulted.

This cayroll was "re'ised to te von i vas raio prealiert of the Couroil,

and I didn't emato 14."

---

## Page 16

SC"

133325

I nuorelor abort the ommono of lis recruiteert sucelen,

ant he sald

De lisa lolil Parla lo alluinto Chat 1te0 sicco recrultine la nes deno elso-

sterr, tue dio alitary rerennel la recalcini should do rroured in the

rillessy no liat sure for of Intelliren aurey could be salntalned lo

No affinet, Unt hin rilllory stait sully consletod of tiree officer

Toralm, doralen, l'ontanalo) que tes phey bad excenbon of offico,

A: 1os " 1s Social balfure sortion,

se salil thio tes teen estabilahed hy

13 elle1n70, 64.08

for vukan est'ures trio.

Na derlures chat ho nadn't touches ar vi tho esorson (inerited

In iniso to giro his a raryin of

Mado lo unot a tornon urpont exionses.

Ho sald, "I osli raula le elicinase :1l chat couldi to allaintedo

strally ho trile tavo lo corault wich roso (anoy) !

solneive la che laval cection ho sali ti clonnod to olialnato trala

exanso allomo.co tit.ot the metton desiii, forsure he due: » 16 essentlal

rop pattori due as sendiny arta to culo, giano chey cariot la Bert ly

aliseo la necranry or thor rut theirjesienaos must ba

ese oft alouli.

do fur the fedient jection wilch iw! toer created before, i y sald

si tuo "utilidoa" (casunitiral restrei sai tint lho soctlon via to be

He celterntod tat them 1.?!.aa tai boen crenter o un

(4, unos) und tat they could unly le eininica ercully.

Ho ailime! tet therr ma left inn ti9 uie ouay 30rd elevon or

Bo:to prunouré dollaro for :attors sum' is netersorico dt tho SIP und

Inconi allalra, un nuch rinor rosioris sisira, but that le telt

lo should hare recared to hi the luis in croca ande (that hell loon

fire throut: estre).

I annured ile thut 11 was cortainig :: conded thut tha Propaganda

srelsalun: du turction undor his na to wesiona soction of the Councll

mi cot lr lontre ino ros costierei lo in lis Cile:", thet le should

Sos'tato de nore c136.

He reciaser sha! 'esen vaa in few Tori, hed

sioni to Viror: jealening, ará cnerd lonia ati? le suuls de, to shich

"Fes11T."

PUro trol Bald ho sould l1re to nat since durro In as head of

crat conto sould rot sarer "ess e told hir to.

Niro

alloni that lie stait in ler lostre his ds sory food tue shat lestre

so Do iood recauso le biritai to anere dio arcio day. :8 a swincine po0l.

in bentlored bire: del Carro,

pernin Telaio, ru'er iarlo Rurbaudo

anta bigol del Corro souli le a sood chie! : ropigs in, rut that for

ti, no bould also like à geod adviser sus. :a torto, mo really 1s no

al 05. pre lo talk, lut vould like so le -ralient.

piro sald

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SOONE

-17-

Huberto Marano, a resortio, alno vould lo rood to direct erupaganda

offerts.

le added dat testro, chief of tropagane los the riii, wiich no

longer exista, la the one do continues recalvin,: the proparis lunda

froe. Palla.

lie doclared lat ho (Miro) didn't control theno furdry that

he didn't have anything ascent a bureaucracy.

I told ilm that I enrolderd this problor of propagaida an:tico and

141 perators should lo core ctrel rice avay.

He added that to colt that

Ranto Swan Mhould la 1: it uniar tho crossea

section of the Courcily

thrt the nropagards arction ind to guit ourding prine. ratter

es to bolin perlenn eurerios and trotone sond a furnit to such country

8s tat thuy could le printer there with the torra uned in sach countrys

In Arorael, In Argentir

stying in Braill, in Portuguones 1n

Parer ag

In the carnor of puking in lanures that such tropagaris rust

to :ald fir. He affired. that turborto linerano wuss trust reortr and

hard sirhor and cuuld halile tilo volli that Furals Polnudo via a 1100

vorter Wio sow la havino e strugela lo live, but vorka voll at iropaganda

rators.

said. that, the propagaten funds should paas throug. P.1"

control, and thuz I voy esko this up mon vy potim la and tre co

Again ho declared that ho felt slans ruat la rado for lin and tro Counell to

return to Cuba. I sald chia was a natter jor the futuro.

No tricinted our ractins with my utoterent that 1t would protably

no% he t111 to followins wook uhan I rould retirn to Miant, altor

pottine cuttore resolved in isahington. He suld that he would probably

norinasday after the frosa lunoheon....

I addud that 18 11 seerod dontrable for his: to cono to losiingtor:

on roule to Miani, I would cull lins thut otherwise I would look forvard

to avoing hin in Milani. I said I fall ve had coverad a lot of round,

and thanked him for giviné to do ruch of cla time to our rooting.

again ho reiterates thet to deafred reanornibility l'or all sroupa

and Urst, 1f he man't corsidered to be the right one, that he was raudy

and :11ling to rosign.

Bon 21:15, we fininher and I axcortud his: to the

alsvator of the hotel.

CSOBET

---

