# 104-10005-10182

## Page 1

104-10005-10182

RUBICT: (Optional)

FROM:

NI/AN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

CI/ RA

2C

2.

ROUTING AND RECORD

SHEET

fined

2P

EXTENSION

NO.

WEA

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

XAAZ - 22602-

DATE

Là Jap 64

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from wien

to whom.

Drow a line across column ofer each commune:

MICROFILNED

AUS 2 0 1915

DoC, MICRO

5.

RID/MIS

WFA

R-

Bill,

7.

RID/PS

TARA

10.

"Rid/ Mis

13.

"Rid FI

1049

"-62

610 VERONOUS

EDITIONS

Rid Fil

3.5/ RID/MiS

Pis add to Subj. line

info written on abstriest

in pencil,

Document Number 843361

JUL 1976

for FOlA Review on

ANITAES

ABSTRACT

INDEA

2000205/4

12/2

ЛАВОЧРАСТ

??:.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- 4-489,

XAAZ-22602

JE S0D 1034

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mie do Juce Rankin

General Counsel

Presidont's Commission or the

Assassination of Presidont Keancu

MICROFILMED

AUG 2 0 1955

SUBJECI!

Information Concerning Jeak RUD!

00C. MICRE, SER

Jaka Jack RUDENSTEI) and His

Associates as Transinitted to

Warren Commission

1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 19 May 1964,

requesting that this Agency furnia. eny niormation la 10 i4es

relative to Jack RUBs, his activitles and his associates®

2 Ihis memorandum will contra our carlier statement to

the Commission to the effect that an examination of Central Intell

gence Agency illes has producod no Information on Jack RUBY or

his activitles. The Central Intolligence Agancy has as Indication

thiE RUST and LeE Harve

OSWALD ever knew cach other, were

assoclated, or might have been connected in any manacr

(201-289248)

The recorda of this ngency wore reviewed for Information

about the relatives, frionds and associates of RUBY namad in your

summary of his background. Our recorde do not rolloct any laíorma.

fion pertaining to these persons.

Document Number

843-361

for FOIA Review on

JUL 1976

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

:! 59 H1!

:S?

2 - DDP

2 - C/CI/R&A'

Thomas II. Karemessines

Acting Deputy Director 10r 11

SECRET

CS COPY

201-742862

---

