# 104-10142-10164

## Page 1

104-10142-10164

INTERNAL USE ONLY

HS CA

Neg Chrand

Page 2

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Thursday - 29 September 1977

6. (Internal Use Only - PLC). LIAISON Met with Representative

Richardson Preyer (D., N. Car.) and furnished him the name of a contact

in the State Department to whom an academician and any others doing

scholarly research may secure biographic information on a foreign

service officer of interest to them. Mr. Preyer will provide the name

to those people whom he described as reputable scholars who were

pressing him for the public release of the Foreign Service list. 'This

will thus avoid need for access to the full listing which will remain

classified. This arrangement resulted from the meeting with Mr. Preyer,

brich Isenstead, C/CCS, add

,, SA/DO/O, during which

Mr. Isenstead raised security issues if the list is published. Mr. Preyer

assured us that the scholars involved will be perfectly satisfied.

7. (Unclassified - PLC) LIAISON Mr. Michael O'Neil, General

Counsel of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, called

and requested that the Agency testify at a hearing on the background and

implementation of our retirement programs scheduled for all day, if

necessary, starting at 10:00 a.m., Wednesday, 12 October, in Room H-405

of the Capitol. Copies of the Agency statement would be required seventy-

two hours before the hearing. Chairman Edward P. Boland (D., Mass.),

of the Committee, does not consider it necessary that the Director

personally testify.

8. (Unclassified - KJS) LIAISON Polly Payne, in the office of

Senator Wendell H. Ford's (D., Ky.) office, called and requested

brochures on CIA. Sue Kessler, of this office, has been advised.

9. (Unclassified - DTC). LIAISON Accompanied Dan Godar,

OS, to a meeting with Professor G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and

Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, on a variety

of matters. (See Memorandum for the Record.)

10. (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON Received a call from

James Wolf, Deputy Chief Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations,

asking for copies of Executive Order 10450 and DCID 1/14. I told Wolf that

Sidney Stembridge, Acting Director of Security, had previously provided

copies of these documents to him and Wolf said yes, but they could not

retrieve them. I agreed to get copies and make them available.

400%

20530

INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

