# 104-10300-10205

## Page 1

104-10300-10205

SECRET

22 6610

23 ОСт 1975

ME ORANIUM FOR: - The Zoriow Staft

VIA

Bonuty Diroctor for Adnisistration

SUBJECT

Seneso Selsct Committee Request

1.

Reference is nade to a renorandu, captioned es above,

datad 3> Senseaber 1975 forariing coples of certaia docments

Stou the office of Security filos concerning!

These docurents wore requested by lI. Jeffrey

Senate

Colec: Committes staff, who connesced & review of the

files on 29 September 1975.

The Offico of Security has concluded a separate teries

of tho

files and has hishlighted cortain contents theraos

the

SCA.

The

Dil has requested that naterials concerning

ice

following itoas be provided to the Sonato Selecz Cousittee

indopenient of my Sonate Select Connitzoo Staff rencests, to

Fit:

Lee harvey uswald

The filos contain a ray, unovaluated report

frOz

]containing dis reporting of an dile-

zation that Loo lisrvey Oswald was in dos Yorl:

City in the kintor of 1962, having contact with

= Cubase

(Astached to instant sonoraadua, Tab A, is

a copy of

orizinsl report,

1i2 attendant

sunrestiny recoint of the report circa

20

Deconbar 1903.)

readily arilable public and Office o

Incurity inforation concerica

22:23

1m2h2

• me possility a?

A1s

Tort

cemissior diu mt nursee soch a lina

or inquiry.

Document Number

1352-1060

CM 065244

for FOIA Review on

MAR 1977

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

1:2

SECRET

Tere is no evidence in the

files

or

the file of the source,

• Enrique Hugondo Abaseal

(y terenguer), 1730543, that this inforaation

was orocessed cut of the difice of Securisyl

Security Research Stafi, to which Miloy raported

tho inforaation..

Forever,

as viley states in

tie report:

"I urged

Abascal to go to tho FBI

with the inforzatlon, and offered to arrange &

meeting

to pronisad to toll than the story,

and kade contact through an ageat (0'brien)

whos ho knew socause of past activizias."

Regarding Abascal, his. Office of Security

file contains the followinz concoming his

veracity:

Oftice of Security/Sacurity Research

Staff senorandus dates 15 August 195t:

Abascal has for several years furnished

inforsation to SiS source which has been

proven to bo utterly worthless and

usually fictitious."

Office of Security/Security Research

Staff nesorandan dated 19 Usy 1965:

"(Abascal) has furnished source wits

intolligence isformation which appears

zo be complete fabricazion.""

FBI letterhead menorandus dated

30 September 3253 contione: "Moviniento

Derocrata Cristiano (DC)" contsius the

followiar statenents about Abascal by

F3I

sources:

"One would only have to

now Enrique Abascal to know that this

(a Life pagazizo article) was nothing

but a pablicity stunt on his part and

clit do pas no leportance matsoevor in

tr antl-cistro lovesont."

:Corctines

isalins rier abascal.

does not

le suould play min

mascul is corely spua-

009.4201.

licite exaler.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

559-1

Ie as apparent the office of Security!

Socurity Research Stage had reason to

question the veracity of Abuseal precludieg

further dissoalnation of the liforsazion;

and that there was a reason to belleve

that Abascal would report the inforation

to tho Fal for their action:

Arlianton Houso, Publishers

me files Contain e rat, evaluita

report fron

containing his reportIn

of an allogation that CIA had partial

control of, and ouce atteapted full control

of, Arliagton

Rouses

Fablishers.

(Attached to instant senorardus, Tab B,

is a copy of liloy's original report as woll

as copies of Altendant secuaents.

The files

contain no further clarification of the

intomation.

Thore is no. Office of Sacurity saoject

file in tho name of Arlington louse or

AFIZDECON HOUSE:

Publishers.

Fros other sources, it vould appear

trist Arlington

House,

Publishers 1s con-

nocted with the consorvative causag ot

Millia F.

Luckley are the sationa Korier.

auckley is a forner. Agoncy employee

his close connections vich fomer Agency

esployco

to horaryl Hunt save rscentiy

recoived extensivo publicity.

I: 15

believed

that nunsrous forner Ageacy

enployces

aro linied with Buciley's causes,

any this could be the

foundation

for the

maord Agency lavolvances in irlington

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SEGRET

3.

YOur

attention is again directed to the concerns of

randtso security,

as sIptossed in the referenced neso-

randus, thac the l

filo documents and all statements

contalaed thereln,

ever though not classifled as such, be

carciully and prudently handled to prococt the individuals

Luenticiod therel.

robert. 1. Gasbino

Director of Security

Atts

Distribution:

Orig &

-Adaressee w/atzs

1=

ODA #/0 atts

1 - D/Security w/o

atts

- OS Registry w/o

1

atts

- DD/PSI w/atts

- SAG w/atts

1

OS/PSI/SAG/M

File w/atts

DEa (210CT75)

SEGRET

---

