# 104-10103-10232

## Page 1

104-10103-10232

• OUTGOl' MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTEA USE ONLY

AGE

col

38:

TOG

MRO

OMF

0

DCI

0

0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE MANDUNG INDICATOR

DATE-TIME GROUP

STAFF

PACKE

CITE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUDI

DIRECTOR

005705

0

DISSEM BY:

SIA, SIAfEL

16-6

De(ALK)

0003, OS/RE,

0

SNO INDEX

•0

THE THINN TO

PER

TO: PRIORITY

DOODE,

U -0as

UNINTELTEHACE CHABOVE) Y

LAB, CAY. Cpcs

ISNimIL.

I- WASHINGTON POST OF 21 MARCH CARRIES ARTICLE ENTITLED

"CANADIAN SAYS U-S. PAID HIN E#5,000 TO INFECT CUBAN POULTRY."

ARTICLE IS BY DREW FETHERSTON AND JOHN CUMMINGS ENEWSDAYS

DATELINED NEW YORK, 20 MARCH. Y

Z- ACCORDING TO ARTICLE, A CANADIAN TECHNICIAN, WHO ASKED

THAT HIS NAME BE WITHHELD, SAID HE WAS APPROACHED IN MIAMI IN

1962 BY A MAN HE KNEW AS "RONT AND WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF WITH

CREDENTIALS AS BEING FROM "AMERICAN INTELLIGENCE-" ARTICLE

ALSO SATATES THAT A SOURCE WITHIN THE DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE •

AGENCY CONFIRMED THAT "RONT WORKED FOR DIA AT THAT TIME, AND

• THEN SAID: "IF YOUR'RE GOING TO TELL MES WHAT I THINK YOU ARE

GOING TO TELL ME.. I DON'T WANT TO HEAR ABOUT IT." ACCORDING TO

THE ARTICLE, THE "DIA SOURCE" REFUSED TO COMMENT FURTHER W

3. THERE IS NO RECORD IN HAS OF ANYA

CONNECTION

WITH THE MATTER DESCRIBED IN THE ARTICLE. WE ALSO CHECKED WITH

DIA. OFFICIALS IN DIA HAVE NO RECORD OF THE MATTER DESCRIBED

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT.

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

CLABSHICATION

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTMNNITICATINA UFICEA

E2 ' IMPDET

....

---

## Page 2

AGE

• OUTGOIR ; MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

COI

ACF

tOO

MAO

OMF

0

CLASSIICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HAMDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

0

D •

BATH-TIME OHOUS

CONF:

• INFO: FILE

PAGE

82

CITE

DIRECTOR

1005705

MAN STAGE NIFIHNNCHAUNDNN

DISSEM BY:

PER

IN THE ARTICLE AND TO DATE HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO IDENTIFY THE "DIA.

SOURCE MENTIONED IN THE ARTICLE.. WILL ADVISE IF FURTHER INFO.

IS DEVELOPED. Y

4. NO FILE.

E2, IMPDET.

ORIG: E/BC/C

XLIDZ; COORD:

LA/COG & MORRILL I.

SA/CILA ESTURGITTS}, PCS/LSN/MIL

J, A/DCI IFALKIENICZ}.

AUTH: AC/EUR/BC EJAMEST; REL: DC/EUR/NW

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

22 MARCH 2735 B

IBUR

To LUNANU

PELESSING OFFICER

/FP/FC W Thelos

LA/COG

SANCILALL

CLASSIRICATION

PCS/LSN/MI

AIDCI ARE

COORDIMATING OFFICINS

REPRODUCTIO,. / OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIbED

farman

CHEUR/BC

AUTHNOTICHTMNO DANCIN

E 2

IMPDET

---

