# 104-10172-10033

## Page 1

104-10172-10033

POET

DeE 1403%

ears it?

#Cober 2568

nichose demiere

ales anclosed o fors loster (attachedy toes DuRpl peodo do paperie

GERALO PerCEKTHEMAiNE

Dow Dro,

Sorry i bis

Le the Capon jri

to the ni di

1831

1n

but

side

bine ties could you fire on son yrien

are loly interested in 1-108, 1-7a,

'-7 barons® (paratroos nod. i/quic

T=7 canopy (cnsouT.) Jacked in curs

for Mirrora: Also, 1a drybody

mith one of the expediticia to mibe eoi

• been bothering ball cus of us to go

big story on a rus for T7 sod surel

osition to censure and linde the story

Is Pira Ventures 1a Laterestal, doy

et word on Bob Sinclatr and the otture?

"As almigs,

-end

Beel:& Orlatal lotter tron Senias

masars fors laster for volunt

SEGRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY,

83 G0r7

100-4-14

4 Соб 1961

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

---

## Page 2

Dosr Sir,

Thank jou for your letter requesting information conceralag our

organization.

He hero recelved any letters such as yours and are

pleased to find that there are thousands of young Acericans thac

aro aulous to activeiy participate in the fisht egalast Interaat-

lonal Communism.

First, let me state that we aru en Independont and solf supporte

ine ructora on to eat recala do to provide maline me e

instructor or i ate organizatoes eat ener

communists.

Aive reel,that americans would be in a becter position

to defend their country if they were trained in the arts of Guerr

111a Warfare and Survival Xes,a delt supporting unit our present

facilitleg are extremely, limited and we are accepting only those

veterans that were Special Forces trained as Guerrilla Warfare

Instructors, survival, parachute qualiried atc..

1130 we suggest..

that prior to an Individuals learing his home he should have already

purchased his.ow untformse. combat equipment, have a cat, and enough

MANSE A LIES 23S CAS

money to pay room. and; board until

he can be placed with one of the

inter vode on come not operates so a conventione

force and thereforeido notihave standard bartack facilities t

or pay:

Constering the aforementioned, should you still be interested

in Joining, we suggest that prior to your departure for Miami you,

contact a Local SoL DIvER Cus (Parechutists) or ex-paratroopers.

and here them train you, is a parachutists

"after your five student

jumps you should bey your own suspent (back pack, reserve, boots,

22003

helent etc.). The porschute training and five student jumps

should onst not noee than sho.

ill of our setive nembers grei

parachute qualified and have contributed to the costs of aquipment

and aircraft.

Thank you agyla for you interest ind if you wish to write address

011 B12 tO INSRPEY, 0/O GERRY FITRICE, GIBRAL DELIVERY, LAST, SEALE

Respectrully Yours,

GERAT

TRIC

---

