# 104-10147-10304

## Page 1

104-10147-10304

DUIUUINE MESSHOL

SIGNAL GENTER USE ONLY

COI

ACR

TOG

King

assassenglan

AGE

TRE

DCI

OMF

CLISSIFICATION

JECRET

MESSAGE

NDLING INDICATOI

STAFF

CONF: SA/DO1

30-2

MRO

D

D

HS. CA

PAGE

OF

PAGES

2

-DATE TIME GROUP

"Eme

Netia

1618277

DIRECTOR

- INFO:.

FILE E438, IP/DMS,LAGALC,

2D04, ADO/DO, DDOSRO,

ASCA

SAGE REFERENCE N

125981

•ANDET

DISSEM BY:

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

PER

TO:

INFO

D

+ FILES

MEXICO CITY. Y

RYBAT WNINTEL RNVIEW Y

DE+R

U•S- HOUSE, OF REPRESENTATIVES SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS WHO CURRENTLY INVESTIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES

SURROUNDING ASSASSINATIONS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND DR. MARTIN

LUTHER KING HAS TOLD. STATE THAT THEY. INTEND TO PURSUE LEADS IN

PORTUGAL, UK AND MEXICO RELATING TO JAMES EARL RAY, CURRENTLY •

SERVING TIME FOR KING MURDER- THEY BASING THIS INTEREST ON

INFORMATION THAT RAY WAS IN LISBON BRIEFLY IN MAY 196&- SHORTLY.

BEFORE HIS APPREHENSION IN LONDON IN JUNE 1968. 4

2. MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY: CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR

OF COMMITTÉE SAYS SELECT COMMITTEE TOLD STATE THÄT HE WANTS TO

ESTABLISH "CORDIAL RELATIONSHIP" WITH APPROPRIATE PORTUGUESE

NATIONAL POLICE AND HOPES TO ENLIST THEIR ASSISTANCE INCLUDING

ACCESS TO THEIR FILES AND IN LOCATING AND INTERVIEWING POTENTIAL

WITNESSES. Y

3• DEPARTMENT HAS SOLICITED EMBASSY SUGGESTIONS AS TO HOW

BLAKEY SHOULD PROCEED. Y

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT :

RELFASING OFFICER

CLAssIFIcATIon

22228

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

---

## Page 2

OUTGOING MESSAGE

AGE

OMF 0

ELASSIFICATION

JE CRET

MESSAGE HANDUNG INDICATOR

STAFF

• SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

Go!

ACP

TOG

0.

TRE

MRO

DCI

PAGE

2

DAGES

2

DATE-TIME GROUP

• CITE

DIRECTOR

CONE-

INFO:

FILE

(2598/

D

D

•D

DISSEM BY

ANO INDEX

RETURN TO

PER

4.°

WISH TO CALL ABOVE TO ADDRESSEES' ATTENTION IN"EVENT*

ARE SOLICITED FOR ADVICE OR ASSISTANCE. RTACTION IS

COOPERATING FULLY WITH BLAKEY AND COMMITTEE INCLUDING ALLOWING

THEM ACCESS TO DIRECTORATE RECORDS, AFTER SUITABLE SANITIZATION

FOR SOURCES AND METHÖDS. HOWEVER, BELIEVE COMMITTEE'S EFFORTS •

TO INTERVIEU POLICE AND WITNESSES AND RESULTING USEFUL INFORMATION

OBTAINED, IF ANY, IS LARGELY OVERT FUNCTION WHICH CAN BEST BE.

HANDLED BY LEGATTS OR OTHERS WHO WOULD ALSO BE IN A POSITION TO

BE PUBLICLY QUOTED OR IDENTIFIED IF NECESSARY. Y

5.

EXPECTED TO PROVIDE EMBASSY BEST ADVICE IF

SOLICITED BUT REQUESTED TO AVOID INVOLVING

OFFICERS IN

NEGOTIATIONS EVEN IN THEIR COVER CAPACITIES. IF CIRCUMSTANCES

SUCH THAT THIS UNAVOIDABLE, PLEASE ADVISE HOS BY CABLE SO THAT

THE MATTER CAN BE APPROPRIATELY HANDLED WITH BLAKEY AND

DEPARTMENT: *

ORIG: 0/SA/D0/0 ISOVERNI; COORD: OLC {CUMMINSE, DC/LA CLAUDERI

C/LA/M

X/EUR/BC

C/EUR/IB

AUTH:

SA/DO/0

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

14

NOVEMBER 197

MASOVERN

155200700

7542

REL: DC/EUR (ESTES}.J

C/LA/ STATE

6-106 portia,

DC/EUR

RELEASINE OFFICER

CLASSICATION.

DC/EUR/BC

*C/EuR/IB

COOROINATING OFFICERS

"D'ETLAN

(CLAIMESS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Malore

AUTHENTICATINE OFFICER

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

---

