# 104-10102-10057

## Page 1

104-10102-10057

IF

¡SECRET.

20 Fes 77

Scarce:

Totes Fade ow d. Goodpestice

For John Leader,

IS Staff

Subject:

Background on Mexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1.

coverase. From the tine the lexico Station wes

o ered in

Apriu 1947) (oy Bill Doyle) until arrival of vin Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ, had developed a support apparatus to

excloit leads from the Soviet Encassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted

of multi line

phone taps, three poto sites, a mobile surveillance

team and

a nail intercept operation.

a. ¡hone taps vere placed byle enoloyeo on the telephone company,

no as hardled by David NILSTED (pseudo) .

The nuncer of lines

tapped was limted

by availability of a listening post nearby

(since tke taps were not made in the nain central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Folish, Gzech, ete) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Moxican or Mexican American) vere related

(which the station at that tine felt was sood security la that

if they called about sace, they would tale to eace other.

i. Ehree hoto sites vere handled y inderson with the relo

of Farry anoney (retired, living in Chicago) and ODY ISD

people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment

devices.

These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LININED, LUBIO,

and BICALLA). LITED was a fired site bang oprosite across

the street from the front gate sf tre Soviet Imbassy wrich had

both a vesicle and foot entrance. The Soviet fate was or the

orthest corner si their corpound sud 102255 as diagocally

scrose & double barcelled abreeb on the Southanst

SECRET

#12358

---

## Page 2

SECRE?

ist cocke 1a1050 was the 11230 sase aid it agerazod striatin on an

I bains to derd Station Jought

che storey

tata grocerty (a/Spanish Coloniai stone house, through. LI CUSTE (crecis to

se sure,. Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word that the photo of "uniden man"

ras

being released

to the

suclic by the Warren Commission. The photo operators were moved to another apt

nearby. The property vas sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to LEITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the same side of the street

as IIED out in the middle of the block South. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Erbassy. The agents in LITED and LILYRIC (coth

exican families, as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LIURIC was a rented apartment. LICALIA, the third photo site, as located

in one of a row of four houses on the South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

which the 'exico Station purchased in about 1958 (check date), also using

urchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the fariet ambassy compourd.

The turnose of this operactor was to get good

idestinication

unotographs of the Soviet personnel (iho at thet time were largely

miesticica in lexico Station records). The three proto sites were ha died by

7. collected we ?ilm

m from LITTED

a:d LaurIc doree times a veei. His sister's auscard,)

evended sid printed ice film into gio contact print strips. The master

rian

10e for Lichiià 211m to e rocessed inside ISD man from 1957 to 1959

resigred) could not handle the volume and as the unprccessed 211m degan

o scoumulate, the inside CO (atoney) jecale disgusted and took de 3117 out

becare

Le lander des all three photo fases.

i sensitire stair a conitoring operation

ISERTET

---

## Page 3

-= =

LE.JOS, 1, atejo this was ha.died oy Clea NeDo2u (oubside TSD orfieor and

Valorey using HO TDY beaus 1or monitorine, Tuis oporation vas a130 segarate

ECOm LICATTA. The tuo couses in setueen vere rented to unsusrectirà tenasts.

co Mobile surveillance vas developed by Arderson and later claced

under aloney and joseph Sancho. This team consisted of a haif

dozen or so agents wiro used three to for late model cars anc a

panel truck (which could be used on staie outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (from LI IDED 34SI)

Soviet

vicen someose of interest left the/Embassy gate ard stay with them

until they nade their meetings. These agents new about the InCRED

BASE cecause they had II.INTD shotos

for identification purceses.

This worked fairly iell until about

the middle of 1958 (sneck date)

when one of the surveillance agents got too close to his target ard

was arrested by the dexican transit police and turned over to the

Me:ican Secret Service. Ey the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to cail him sut!

¿ tre agent had identi? ed Sancho fidio vas

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Boo Shaw) and the inside ..

hone nuncer si aconey (uho las subrequently ceclaced y Louis

Fucketto do a sesiit of this flag,

the barat troject was broken

un into several sthers.

Frank

The arents were not changed but vere rien

new crypts. /Estarcona a:d

rerlaced Anderson

in handling

the

Johose taps. Fuciato ceplaced :añoney aná handled tia

surveillance team (LIDIOPAP) and che photo bases thro ghi

d. MISIGhT vas the crypt used cor alf

mail

-abercept cardied oy Charlie Anderson

TEAT

7

---

## Page 4

14-182

(la sudserent ta the postal sentem in thine at Ble elenortly

¡conso Spera,

tis

2213023

2. (LIaison coverace vas immellable aid inaecure as characterided

by the cature

of the Mexican services at that time. I

COf Govarment. This "inistry stent a major part of its time on control of

foreigners and political lovestications. Their a ents vere vicious,

venal,

corrupt estortionists?

established contact with

one

of

them

(later LITRE Croup ta about 1950 or 51.

He gave

then

training la group of acout cive surreillance tires. In travel control varking

the atroort as Well as file searckes of nemes fron DES Fatrs where the files

vere poorly organized and often inaccurate. ow and then, however, sore useful

information was developed out it could not ce derended upon.

was

reclaced by

(resigned and remaiced in Merico)

ahorey, Thomas

Fazlitt, and

During 1958, Vin Scott met socially sore of the

Chronies of the

Merican President elect,l

During this period,

the J.s.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec

J.2. Duiles)

energetic in organizing groups

"fight so munism".

One of

these

seeds

grew into a proposal

• son d2 Former lext President), acting

(oT made to ta scost los a joint telepione van operation.] mis

project (LIzWOY) went through acout sour

distressing years of a shakedown.

(the ledean a control (JaLEGAT) es Inexo riencea,

old,

and greedy.. His

antoulated so trai over the rincipal agent c alon ali Latercept the

first case officer vas alêonso Spors inside vich

Jiatired) outside

and torn

(TSD taining dificer for surveillance and bead de tre listening

rost were balaty tele loce

---

## Page 5

SECRET

started cu le

Insulatay She station toled so. et atery

desand ande ty the Nor cans Bowl

und John ded tanguage dificulares sao

personal problems associated with being sutside the station co hot the kestcans

Were virtually uncontrollasle, spendi & money as they

pleased, squirrelling avey.

equipment at enornous costs, aud neglecting their part oê the hangala to

oduction of transcripte br

placing taps which we venteds Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady who found himself in the same pincer movement of having Seott

approve a request by LIETEGAVI that Brady hed turned down by

the song

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

• The project was revarped.

and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer,

I who was out inside the listening post to maintair

was reassigned to other

dutses

rending a transfer.

the equipment./ Scott took over the project as

officer meeting with LIELEGANT.

Fe designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing with

for routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up transcrints and tapes. Goodpasture had no

dealing wier

except when Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was acout late 1961.:

3. My nerory is a little vague aoout the origins of the Cuban ambassy bus I

thinks the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on Hew

Years eve 1959. is I recall, it was a takeshift arrangerent of volunteers

through most of 1960 and di with. Tom Fazlitt producing voluniacus reports on

their activities and recruiti.g agents right and leit anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

4. Personnel

assignments. Of interest to us now is

who was in lexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

warren Connission.

To deternine no vas there and wrat they were doing -

have grouped persons torether chronologically with areas of their assignment

cov ring from 195g to 1969 so that later nares

cop up, one can tell what

perica they were in lexico md their assimmments

the time.

SECRET.

---

## Page 6

8/56-6/69

COS

DGOS

Winston !. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/58

10/58 - 12/62

6/63 - 9/65

10/65 - 1969

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

7 (retired)

Alan Thite (retired)

COVERT ACTION

Nor to 1952

Howard Hunt (retired)

547- 7/539

(resigned)

12,56 - 9/61

"Stannard Short (retired)

Chief

9/61

- 3/64

David

Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62 = 9/64

1-J

2/64 - 6/65

Janes Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 11/66

10/65 - 19678

Harold Da Baren, Asst

7C/ (retired)

66

68

68

- 71

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 = 4/62

Thomas Hazlitt

Chief

2/60 - 4/621

4/63 - 4/65

"Bob Shaw Chief -

9/63 - 7/65

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Hackay

(retired) -

8/63 - 6/65

David

Phillips Chief (mitivad) -

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccolo

10/65 - 12,67

SOVIET TAPGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Iron (retired!

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

9/59 - 8/65 C

Chier?

(retired ?)

9/59 - 8/651

Outside CO

5/64 = 7/66

Millian Bright

4/05 - 11/67 Cynthia Fausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET

TRANSCRIBEPS

6/56 - 8/53

Norris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63

George Misko

6/63 - 70

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

---

## Page 7

SUELORT ASSETS

phono taps

119297- 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

557- 4/60

(49-7) " Outside cO

David WILSTED (ps)

156 - 1/62

Frank. Estancona Chief

retired in Mexico

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

gích - I2/67 Michael Farner

Iphoto Cubans

6/59 = L/64 CRobest Zanbernerc

7/59 - 6/62

resigned

(retired)

choto Soviets

• 44.59

5/57 - 8/64

Harry T.

rahoney

(retired Chicago)

A. Goodpasture

(alternate CO

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63

6/63

Louis D. Packett

(retired)

- 10/64 Thomas

Keenan

65 =

66

Robert H.

William Bright

63-

6/33

6 - oe outside Arent

phone taps

1959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1959

= 1960

1959

- 1960

Al fonso Spera

(retired)

(outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

(Training rept resigned)

1960-

1961

John brady (retired)

1962 - 1968

A. Godcasture

1961 - 1971

Cherloo Wick (outside ISD Staff Agent - retired) -

surveillance

19542

(retired)

4/59

Fatty Menoney

(retired)

4/59 = 1901

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldmanne

TSD Outside unit

14/53

- 12/63

5/59 -4/34

Glen Widden (retired)

Josepk.!. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed dum

---

## Page 8

SECRE

ê telepcone runners se The Sordet, Cuban, 2ad Satellite Elbasales.

Lemon ermal tar frieten

rected

Citas I recall, the Ve toand connected 5 Cuban Lines, 5 Soviet Ines, 3 Gzech,

3 Polick, ond 1 Zugoslan Ilne, Rue baselouse listening post had a lare

nonitor woo mede short sumaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which

was

received each day around 8 a.m. (passed by

to Goodrasture

to get to Scott before 9 a.n.) Later (wher the reel was completely recorded)

full transcripts were tyced

and passed to the

station in the came way, however,

there was usually a time lag of a day or so. Those transcripts which cad

Russian or another lanquege besides Spanist. or English vent out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations on the reel)was

t/ped. These reels were taken to another location where they were tronslated

and typed. In the case of the Russian translations, Doris Tarasoff usually ran

acout a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume or

Russian conversations among tre embers

of the Soviet E bassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought lato the statien

and carried to Boris by one 28 tre

reople from the Soviet Section of they ray

have been carried to him by

out I think I brougnt the reel in and

gave

it to

to taxe to boris. Lentert aneliard nisette l

candled all of the processi g of Soviet transcrints. My job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we leamed that the man calling hirself Oswald vas

probably an Averican. However, here again there was a backlag vecause the

photos were wicked up three tines a week but the ones ricked up vere isually

Bor dates a lew days retiously because a doctor race: sea ske ala en a

atcht fine basis. Fotorrachs vere nade usually antil one roll cas used cut

Later ve got it craared to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators cleared the canera each day wether Share vas any Riincaxes a 2u22

roll of 2iim enosed. Instructions vere to cover office hours, photograga each

---

## Page 9

SEACT

dem doried and Bandit, all Soreigneze and Consign Leenee plates. Furan

error did seour out generally the agents were conscienticus.

The Cubar

excassy coverage had more sophinticated equipment la pulse ca eral tut it

frequently develored rechanical difficulties.

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna ladlay sorcerea

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came to our attention from the

Soviet line.

It was picked u and

taken to Boris for

translation because

the caller was

trying to sreak Russian. Any delay was caused by vaiting to

compare the photograchs with the tured tronscript. There were no

copies

tearscripts every made in languages other than Scanish or English because Win

Scott could

read only those

two

Languages and he

erschally screeced

the

transcripts

for operational leads he vanted pursued.

(ET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

(4) Sor Ens gate

1- LIMITED

3. LICALLA

---

