# 104-10167-10117

## Page 1

104-10167-10117

A SECART

lita for

Maics Big tang file

9 September 1959

JOMORLIDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBNCIS Pedro DIAZ Lans, Marcos DIAZ LaIS, RIcardo de lA L011

Io Bolchhardt phoned on the norning of 8 Angust to report

that he had discussed proposed activitias vith the there individ

unle semed abore on the night af 7 algust. iney decline to be

restrictod to propaganda against the comntato asd vant to over-

throu Castro.

In their rerusal to nio comitrante to limit their activitles.

They sald it 1s already late for action to start agalnat Castro.

They vant to start a propagands radio prograa against Castro as

the firat stop in an ovurall program to ous: his. They clai

thEt 11111a= Laresder MORQUi and OstlerTes Menoyo are rendy to

revalt against Castro.

2o Reichhardt fears that subjects naj: go off hall cocked

besense they lack direction and the ability to organiss thair ac

R1r1t108.

DE L LORIE told Belchhardt that be anderstands the te

Goverment's position, and agreed they would keep in contact be

canse the Coverrent night bare a different attitude "nast sordà.".

3o Rotchhardt guggeste un not behind the acenos to brins

thase peopio sogother vith sase uho have noney sach as Julio LiBo,

CADESAS, MALOTS, and/Os PICULaBS. Relehhardt expects that relatam

will remain good and tbat ve viil got sone infortation on stair ae,

11r1t1es, but sos all.

003

HE/3/40

Distributions

1 - Balchhardt Conversations

1 = 10 Chron

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SLOIET

VIBR

---

