# 104-10517-10118

## Page 1

104-10517-10118

INT

ORIO &

W:ET 3011/SA/ EOB

ExT :6153

CATE :24 APRIL 1964

• INDEX

DENO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NC

10 , PARIS

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFS DC/WH/SA 5

INFO & DOR, ADDP, C/WE 3, C/CI, 0/51.2, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-I-C-R-E-T

SE599)

888953

27

ROUTING

6

AMLASH/

?1..:61

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

PRTY PARI

INFO

DESENS US KEYMAY PERIMEN AMHIP

REF: DIR 15094

• BODE DIR

16696

1. ANVHIP/1 (A/1) DUE ARRIVE PARIS 26 APRIL, WILE STAY

AS USUAL HOTEL FRANKLIN. INSTRUCTED CONTACT "ROBERTO" BY PHONE

MORNING 27 APRIL BETWEEN 0900-1000 HOURS ON PREVIOUSLY USED NUMBER -

ANJ 4700 EXT 6168. KILL EXPECT SHORT MEETING WITH CASE OFFICER WHO

TO IDENTIFY SELF AS "FRIEND OF BILL THOMPSON'S". MEETING DETAILS

TO BE ARRANGED BY ROBERTO.

2 A/1 BRIEFED TO MEET CARLOS JORGE (ROBRENO) MARIQUEZ

AKA "EL MAGO" WHO HAS IMPORTANT MESSAGE FROM ALLASH/1. A/1 TO GET

GOOD ASSESSMENT ROBRENO, INCLUDING DETERMINATION HIS TRUE REASONS FOR

CONSIDERING LEAVING CUBA PERMANENTLY, ACCORDING LAST SEVERAL LETTERS

TO AVI FROM ROBRENO, HE IN CONSTANT TOUCH WITH UNSNAFU/9, WITH WHOM

A/1 FRIENDLY AND WILL SEE. A/1 ALSO TO DETERMINE WHETHER JOSE ALBERTO

(IBARRA) MARTIN AKA "EL, LOCO BLANCO" HAS ARRIVED PARIS WITH ADDITIONAL

MESSAGE FROM AMLASH (IBARRA ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED COME PARIS MIDDLE

MARCH, ACCORDING ROBRENO). FYI, MOST INTERESTED A/1'S ASSESSMENT AS

HQS SKEPTICAL ROBRENO MOTIVES AND TRUE ALLEGIANCE.

ASERABING OFFICER 24-4

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

GROUFg

S-E-C-R-E-T

Rushen ties antonis

domagrading and

faciassobcalide

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CONTINUED

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

•Copy Na

173

---

## Page 2

14-00000

02:3 ₴

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

O INCEX

SE-C-R-I-T

D NO INSEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

12-€2

ROUTING

6

TO 8

FPON: DIRECTOR

:

INFO &

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE THO

INFO

CITE DIR

3. A/1 TO ATTENPT ASCERTAIN WHAT ORLANDO (PANTOJA) TAJAYO

ARA "OLO" AND CARLOS ALBERTO (FIGUEREDO) ROSALES AKA "CHINO". NON

DOING IN DSE AND WHY BOTH LOSING STATUS AND INFLUENCE. ALSO WHAT

CAUSE PANTOJA'S DIVORCE FROM ZARESCA ESCALONA. (PARA 3 RQMS LONEST

PRIORITY THIS TRIP).

4. A/I ALSO TO SEE AND ASSESS, ETC, UNSNAFU/19 WHO LONG-

TIME ACQUAINTANCE AND WHO INFORMED A/1 THROUGH ROBRENO AND UNSNAFU

CORRESPONDENCE THAT HE WISHED DINE WITH HIM. IN ADDITION, LAST WEEK

FOLLOWING OCCURRED:

LONG-TIME JEYELER FRIEND OF A/1 CALLED HIM FROM

HAVANA, SAID CUBAN GOVT WISHED A/1 GO PRAGUE APPRAISE

AND ARRANGE SALE OF SOME 300,000 DOLLARS WORTH OF

JEHELRY, WHICH TAKEN FROM BATISTIANOS AT END OF

REVOLUTION. A/1 REFUSED GO IRON CURTAIN, WHEREUPON

JEHELER FRIEND CALLED AGAIN SAID JEWELRY WOULD BE

SENT PARIS CARE OF UNSNAFU/19 WHO EMPOWERED CLOSE

DEAL, ON SPOT IF PRICE RIGHT. A/1 REQUESTED TO KEP

DEAL MOST SECRET.

5. IN TALKS WITH C/O, A/I SAID HE INTERESTED LOOKING INTO

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

Enstuded from automatic

CONTINUED

dowagrading and

AUTHENTICATINA

_S-F-C-R-F-I

00-2 34 65e8 708

OFFICER

REPRODUCTIOLY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE A PROHIBITED.

Copy No

....

---

## Page 3

1'*:

. ÷

CATE:

10 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO,

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

E INDEX

S-I-C-E-E-T

I NO INSE:

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

88-82

141

18

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR 166696

DEAL, IF NO KUBARK OBJECTIONS, AS HE RELENBERED SEEING JEWELRY

HAVANA 1960 WHICH HE ASSESSED AT THAT TILE AS WORTH ABOUT 250, 000

DOLLARS. AVI STATED HE ALSO BELIEVES THIS PARTICULAR BATCH JEVELRY

IS THAT WHICH CHE GUEVARA KNOWN TO HAVE TAKEN INTO PERSONAL POSSESSION

AT THAT TIME. A/1 TOLD BY KUBARK THAT BUSINESS DEAL HIS AFFAIR AND.

HOPED HE AWARE ALL POSSIBLE RAMIFICATIONS.

6. ANTICIPATE A/1 WILL HAVE ONLY SEVERAL DAYS PARIS THIS

STOP AS HE HAS KUBARK AND LEGITIMATE BUSINESS GENEVA ROSE. HE BRIEFED

TO MAKE ARRANGEMENTS SEE CONTACTS PARI UPON HIS RETURN, THUS GIVING

HIM BREATHER, AND HQS CHANCE RECEIVE INITIAL REPORIS FROM PARI, PREPARE

FURTHER GUIDANCE. PLS KEEP FQS INFORMED ALL DEVELOPHENTS A/1 HEETINGS

WITH ROBRENO, IBARRA, AND UNSNAFU/19.

7. VISY DEVELOPIENTS REPORTED PARI 3791 (IN 67286) AND

RELATED TRAFFIC, SUGGEST STATION OFFICER OTHER THAN STOCKYOOD OR

KEARSLEY MEET A/I. SPANISH IS DESIRABLE BUT NOT NECESSARY. FYI, A/1

IS STILL "CLEAN" AND PERSONA GRATA WITH CASTRO CUBAN OFFICIALS AS FAR

AS CAN BE DETERUINED, A SITUATION WHICH, AS ILLUSTRATED ABOVE,

CONTRIBUTES IMMSASURABLY TO AKI'S VALUE TO KUBARK.

END OF SESSAGE

CONTINUED

COORDInATING OFFICERS

CROUP !

RELEASING OFFICER

S-E-C-R-E-T

Esctuded te on sutamatie

drunasa dine and

Astiassalcates

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AOTHENTIEATING

Copy Na

no ment

---

## Page 4

14-00000

418.9g

O INDEX

DI FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

18-B0

ROUTING

4

5

PROMI DIRECTOR

INFO &

I DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE FOUR

INFO

CITE DIR

16686

WE/3

WE/5

WH/SA/SO/NS®

Refitaures

MOLAS THIRLE

C/HE/2EPT

COBADIRATING

OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

BÉPRODUCTION OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I.

BRUCE BA

CHEEVEE

DC/WE/SA.

CRCUP 8

Rectude; trass antomalie

towardIne BAs

AUTHENTICATINA

OFFICER

PROHIBITED.

Copy No

---

