# 104-10127-10172

## Page 1

104-10127-10172

UNCEASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2:

3..:

SCOTT

White

Phillin

4.

5.

Shaw

6. ::

7.

Goodpastiva

Keenan

8.

Carol fo

.

B. Manell

10.

Rare O1 CaneC.

11.

12.

13.

14.

Sup

15.

FORM

3-62

610 SERENDUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

SECRET I CO IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

HMMW - 12193

17 Dec63

COMMENTS. (Number. each. comment lo show from whoi

to whom.

Draw a line across column ofter each comment.

3, Du cont

90

396--46

7/5/64.

jess

3/ 0c'63

PRO

STATION

ENDATIDN

GPiP

8593

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY SECRUNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

TO

INFO.

Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM

PROCESSING

POSED

ACTION

17.:

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESI

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ARSTRACT

MICROFILM

ICCOR

USHE

Chief, WHD

SUBJECT

RYBAT/

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

We would like to take time out in our Investigation of the Fresident's

assassination to appraise the role of the Mexico City Station in the whole affair.

Since the early afternoon of 22 November 1963, Mexico City has been the only

maJor overseas reporter in the case.

While this 1s partly dictated by the

facts of Lee OSWALD's life, we have not overlooked the really outstanding per-

formance of Mexico City's major assets and the speed, precision, and perception

With which the data was forwarded. Here it was relayed within minutes to the

White House, ODACID, and ODENYY.

2. Your LIENYOY data,

the statements of Silvia DURAN, and your analyses

were major factors In the quick clarification of the case, blanking out the really

ominous spectre of foreign backing:

return, but we have not been given much yet.

he had ever been to Mexico except for & jump to Tle Juana. We have quickly

screened the FBI report on the whole case but we do not yet have a copy for

retention. It does not compromise your sources. Basically, what the New York

Times has printed about the report 1s all true.

3.

We have meanwhile been flooded with fabrications, of which the ALYARADO

story was the most troublesone. They are still coming in.

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:

O&1 - COS, Mexico City

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

§CROSS REFERENCE TO .

96-7161

CLASSIFICATION

SIGNETN

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

13 Dec 1963

17PEC

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW -12193

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-287248

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

TCLASSIFICATION

LIgPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW - 12193

You have had good support fron your liaison, but as usual the really

outstanding features were Mexico Station's famous generalship and the skill and

devotion of 1ts personnel. Please convey our admiration to all who participated,

down to the last technician, translator, and monitor. We know that the work

your Station did during the President's 1962 visit made you feel this tragedy

with particular keenness, as did we.

OLIVER G.

FORM

53c

4s86:

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLA 3S!FICATION

SECRET

CONTINUEL

PAGE NO

2

---

