# 104-10006-10294

## Page 1

1104-10006-10294

FROM:

BRANCH

TO

TUBE

DT - 5

DT • 6

GT - 7

DW- 6

GT - 6

ĐT - 5

ROOM

RID/INDEX

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

REGULSTER

RID/ANALYSIS

RID/201

RID/MIS/

210/ 10EX

SHININS

SHELLING MATA LOS

BE CHECKED

SECRET

BADGE NO.

EXTENSION

DATE

DATE

INITIALS

3/3/64 guns

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

TRID CONTROL NO.

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

Nataliya

GIVEN NAMES

IGGr

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERSINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

OTHER IDENTIEVING DATA (Occupation, 8ox, CP membership,

Tweal in USSA.

NTS member.

ITIZENSHIP

V: S

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

1 Palles, Tanas

COMMENTS

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

Notris

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

@ Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

3. Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1.

Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 o

the subject exists

2. For each document to be included in the

consolidation (1.€

below:

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b) | Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

CRYSTGREM

T YES

NO

Note 1. Records of col, SSU, OSS and CIC

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index. If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these recoras,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

TRID

DESK

Note 2. Information concerning foreig

public personalities (except mili

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

VOSHININ, Igor (Mr. and Mrs.)

3819 Holland Drive

Dallas, Texas

201-132472

(0853-76361)

(22 503 53)

1r.1S

VOSHININ, Igor

202-79588

(OSE 19213)

(2 2uly 52)

(Ence 1)

VOSHININ, IgOr. (Mr,..)

employed as: a structural engineer by

Mullen' and Powell

Dallas, Texas

201-132472

(293-73613)

826 ov 55)

THIS

SHING TOOT

201-7969019

(DF'B-270L,3)

(Encho 1)

(25 Jop 52)

VOSHININ, Igor

201-7969-6

(DFB 17734)

(2 May 52)

(Encl 1)

+ 9909099861

THIS CARD FILED

20 MAY '52

IN MAIN INDEX

---

