# 104-10521-10019

## Page 1

-280

WAR

Parector

d/2r3

sudes

1.

badmin dicie

4 590

cation vals.

i::3 Co,

miss solier

13

lanco Cir

cancles

"!.

.ch

114g

". 29

Leas

+20*10*56

Eleo laid

moraron

mititi

isidalla dictan lase siliaria

i?.:

.. /

---

## Page 2

So dorare salosagge (1 car 65)

Зi6r-t

C::

1cI,

Tạt

frg

29/C

---

## Page 3

ATTACHMENT B

& Warch 1966

-NAME:

DPOB:

MARITAL STATUS:

BIOGRAPHIC DATA:

OPERATIONAL SUKKARY:

Rison Tonne GUIS Diaz.

22 Sepiagoes 1933, Havana, Cuba

Wade - Daisy asd 2 children

GUIN matriculated at the Universlts of Havan

School of Sugar and Agricultural Economy:

during the 1955-56 Academic year.: He fled

Cuba InJury: 1956, as a result of his political

activitles axalast SATISTA, obtaining. costum in

the Costa Ricay. Esbassy In Havana, and there.

after proceeding to Costa Rica.: Hollater

entered tre Unitid States at Miaml and évent

ually went to ew York to reside with an uncle

While in New York ho carried on the struggle

agaInet BATISTA.

He was secretary. of. the.

propaganda. sertlon of the Directorlo Revolu

corario (DR) and also director of. its:

nowspaper "El Coabate".

He then returned to

Cuba:

JOan CASTRO'S forces in the Escambray

as a Cariain in the Robel Army.

After. CASTRO'S

viclory. he Derary Consardan? (MaJor); ranager

o1 an Isad collative tars and Vice. Secretary

o! Probabilal diCEl.

contaclad and recruited in

1553

by

who

„INSISTILLON INBION TOES

1% GUIN

the pitpoet

of

5+68:11

big diasidects arong

hagh livel Cuban malitary misicero: Rolando

CIBELA Secaden eventually becamo lovolved in

the: conspira

CUIN win tratodi 1a

and

sasurd Sw nateriale by tbe

been no ju contact since

July 1964.

---

## Page 4

DAMAGE POTENTIAL:

2.774

SALI

GUIN was bever

met by any Agency staffer.

In

the conspiracy part of the operatios, GOIN'S

nly knows contac! wa+ CUBELA.

However, GUIN

had naby

pontacte

isnertalle in MetazzAd. aD

Cardesas, such -ne

fanfied triends with whom he saintained

close relattoos

---

## Page 5

DATE

1961

TRUE NAME

1962

1968

1962/85

Rosett Oren

: 1962

1062

1983

Micalid Long

Desmond FitsGerald

1963

John Stent

1869/81 Moatos Sanchez

1963

Robert fierce

ATTACHMENT C

ALIAS

True Name (k005) 1a

tre

aime to custL

"B111 Thompion"

LOCATION

Mexico City

Paris

true dime

in Have to SES

"Roberto":

"Capt. Divid Harper"

"Dick"

"Inna Clark" =

a8 1

of

GP FOCUS

"John Steveng" • or

posalbly by true nine

"Nicolas Sanson"

"Dr. Keeman"

Paria

Paris

Par1s

Paria

Parta

Parta

Paria

---

