# 104-10216-10422

## Page 1

4104-10216-10422

-a.

1

WHIST

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

BECRET

PROCESSING

ACTBOH

215NE

Chief of Station,

MURED FOR IDDORA

50 Chief,

BO DODORE REQUES

ONEY QUALITED

Chief, FB

KEADQUARTERS DESE

CAN JUDGE INDOOMO

FROM

•1 ASTRAM

Chief of Station,

JARAVE

sar Operational KEIWAY/MBF JASN/ ANOT/AMLASH/ANSORLD

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Madrid Contacts of Cuban Refugee Miguel de LEON ROJaB Cor: in

sai subject Bai contacte

ACTION REQUIRED: None, FYI

REFEREICE: UFGA-21144, 27 April 1965 15-4-1

i The AlOTs subaittod in Reports ZE-3135,

22 April 1965,

33 April 1963 and DD1361, 13 April 1965, additional

on the matter reportod in Reference, which ve are summartzing below

for your information.

The following Information was contained In a letter dated

13 April 1965 from AM0T-3'B Iriend in Madrid, Manuel LOPEZ Lourido:

..........

LOPI, stated that the recent defection of

Odon ALVAREZ de la Campa (201-044994) had Left AYLASH-2

and AH.ASH-3 completely confused. He further stated that

QUHOPS 1 has been

recalled to Cuba and plans to leave thie

month (April).

QUHOPS-I 13 reportedly in the cosplete

confidence of AlLASH-1, AMLASH-? and AlkASt-3, all of thom

are planning some action with Marina GARCIA Gonzalez

(201-287712) <CIS 01ficer who 1s not in the Cuban Fabassy

In Algeria and in 601ng to Quory/no further details were

given on this matter.

According to LOPEz, the Ciban Ambassador to France,

Antonto Mariaf CARRILLO Carreras (201-349950), t3o I8 the

coordinator of all Chatroite activities in lestern Burope,

1s expected to arrive in Madrid during the next few days.

He is reportedly bringing jevelry for Rafael #GARCIA-BANGO

Distribution:

(CONTINUED)

CLASSIACARON.

SECRET

1 May 65

MAY 1 0 1965

DESPATCH SYMDOL AND MUSICA

UYGA- 31381

HEADQUARTERS FILE MIMBER

196-95/4

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSMICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH YMBOLAND NUISE

UFGA-21381

8-60

440)

LOPT sald that the group of "Captains" in

Spain are very agitated these days.

He further stated

that he had talked io AKLASH-3 on 18 April 1965, and

AMLASH"3 had told him that he had to retarn to Cuba

immediately and that he uns greatly concerned because

no diu hot snot shether he would be reintegrated into

the DSE or 1f he was being sent to the firing wall.

LOPTZ reportedly suggested to AMLASH-J that he stay

in Spain and not return to Cuba, to shich AHLASH-3

replied that be had to return, because if he did not

go back he sould compronine his frlend, superior and

near brother, AMASil-l.

AMLASH3 also told LOfEl that

11 he is able to enter

Cuba oithout any problens,

"that"

(sle, presumably referring to Castro regine) would last

two months.

b. LOPE reported that AMLASH-3 had told him that

the assassination attempt against Fidel CASTRO, a commando

operation between their group and «ABIDDY-l'e group,

should have taken place on 17 April 1965, but had bee

frustrated because CASTRO san cutting sugar cane.

ANTASH-3 reportedly told LOPEZ that he planned

to leave for Paris on 21 April 1965 and that if he returns

to Cuba he mill go via Prague.

do According to LOPKE, QUIOPS-1 was also supposed

to leave for Havana on 20 April 1965.

0.

them all mch peace of nind because of the fact that all

plans vere going very sell.

I. LOPEZ advised that "Cuco" LEOH (Subject of

Paragraph l of Reference) is the permanent contact and

was in Spain about a seek ago (about 11 April 1965).

When "Cuco" LION returned to liani Iron Surope, he contacted

AlCHAG] and reported the folloning to him (which information vas

contained 1= JE-3139):

LBON sald that he is greatly concerned about

GROWERY's (in true nane) actions with his (LEON'S)

CO FIFIERE SITOST2, IBLASH-3 and GUIOPS-1, Bith the

GROVERY has shown a great interest

Intention of capitalizing on then and making then vort

LEON reported that AILASH-3 had told hin

(LEON) that he had listened to CROTERY and his variuus

offers on different occasions, but that he had been

stalling GHOVERY shile he (AMLASH-3) waited for LEON'S

vialt before naking any decisions.

C. LEON told ANCRAGI that there is an unfavorable

opinion of GROWKRY among those Cuban officials in Europe

who are cooperating with Castro's opponents and that they

sould prefer to sork with the "Miant Group".

d.. LEON claimed that he still had the best contacte

In "his hands" and that these contacte are in the best

disposition and condition to work and cooperate on serfous

They have ali repeatedly: told LEON of their

desira io cooperate vita sat she naiss ultimes droup.

ION stated that Agustin

(801-731065), Cubana 11rILAR PerFesentatire in Burope

I PAGE NO.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

BECRET:

CONTINUER

---

## Page 3

14-00000

32.

CONTINTJATION OF

DISPATCH

ELASSITICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA- 21381

and an Identified CIS Officer/, 1a one of his best

sources of inforuation.

wu added that BENITE ha:

unde various tripe to the UBs& and consequently 1a

very sell informed. LION also told sCRAGI that

BIHITk? unod to be married to LION's sister.

So LBOW suld that AKASH 3 had called hia from

Europe and told him of his definite decision to breal

wIth GROWKRY and to return to Cuba.

B. According to LBONy AHPAL-A had visited hi=

In Miant on 22 April 1965, asking hia questions and

requesting his cooperation concerning contacts and

activitles in hurope.

o Fi, AlCRAGI 18 not known as being connected with KUBAN

and has inly dedicated himself to private business.

mainLalned close friendship sith ABIDDY-l and AlBIDDY-l's folloters.

Andres f. HEUTENAN

19° 51954290 190,69

FORM

#.80

38a

(40)

USE PREVIOUS DITION.

LASEIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO

CONTINUED

---

## Page 4

0000o

attachment

По

UFGA

-21381

filed

in

AMLASH-Z

201 file

10 bary 65

.:"

---

