# 104-10247-10069

## Page 1

104-10247-10069

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

CLASSiFICATION

SECRET

TO

nasto

Deputy Chief, NH/SA

9O 14501 16 150182

ONLY Qua 5I

FROM

Chief of Station, JMVAVE

CAR TONE INDUSE

My RASTRACT

SUBJECT

TYPIC/Operational

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

C NOC Amendment for Subject of 201-307337

Action Required: Please Record Amendment

References

: A. UFGA-11381, 27 September 1963

(MC Amendment)

3. UFGA-15436, 23 April 196

(МОС Amendment)

C. WAVE-8241, 19 June 1964

amended MOC for Subiect.

Transmitted herewith are three (3) copies of ar

to provide

This amendment has been writte

month to $400.00 net.

Subject a raise in salary from $350.00 net per

4 Tlas.1v

PROCESSING

period 1-15 June 1964.

JAWAVE beginning with period

Attachments:

MOC (3 cys)

IDEN Sheet

(3 cys)

- H/W

E3С H/W

Distribution:

- Addressee

w/ NOC - H/W

IDEY Sheet - USC

• CROSS REFERENCE TO

in Encle

Andrew K. REUTESAY

CLASSiFICA

SECRES COPY

211-357=37

DATE TYPED

SAlE DISPRICHES

22 June 1900Y 25 1961

CASSA' CH SIMAXE NGO NUVRER

UFGA - 1G601

MEASURRIGES FUE NURER

201-307337

---

## Page 2

14-00000

HELCRANDUI! OF ORAL COSHITHENT

TO

:Chiol, Special Affaire Staff.

IRC" : Chief of Station, JSTAVE

SUB-ECT: Engagesent of

IDEN A

201-307337

Inim and Project Charge.

The Subjset Individual has been

encored unter oral contrect for use unde: TYPiC and la to be charged

agalnat fi: 10t cooter.

The effective date of the oral contract 1g

16 June 1964

and it shall cortinue until terminated by

ertor part Upc Titoon days actual noiica.

C"urity Apprevel.

The appropriaie security approval to

utilize St Cut is requested has bean obiained._ OA Granted 6 February

1963 via DIR-18422, 6 February 1963

3. Citinenshio. The Subject is a

Cuban citizen

and was

bore en

4 February 193%

Matanzas, Cuba

and reside.

It IDEN

Cinponsation. Comenclug on the effective date of thia sgree-

Sebj.c wIll be

paid compensation at ¿ho rate o1 $ 448.14

per month.

Such payments to

tory service.

be nsde following conpletion of antistac-

Subject willXXXXXxxbe obligated to pay U.S. incone

TazE: FiUXKLEXIXES deducted fron the above stated paid

ponsation. Jubject Is/Kaligiblo for iocial Security. #

Sizbject i

married

End has a toial of

dependenta

othor tran Tinuell. Subject's dependents nie/so residing in tha

U.S., U.S. p0c8e6s1018, Canada, loxico, the Conal Zone, or the Republie

of Panana.

Guartere sod/or Subalatonce. Tie Subject will/xXXXXX be

furnished clerters andfor substetence, when operationally necessary.

7.

Operational Expensos. When proparty authorized, Subjeet will

bo relaturaid

Oparational travel Including nileage claims for

officiel usa of his personal autorobile.

b. Opprational hotel expensez, reals, telephona calle, etc.

or Sention

In the event of subjact'g

not to exceed $5,000.00 a111 bo

puld to Stuject's

Contingent Obligettung.

No connitnents other than those

ebore Tave

baen nado to

-too Subject.

07

SIGNEDL

Field Contracting

Officer

REVEANED

contraet Approring tricor

SECRET.

IS Cripy

1011767337

---

## Page 3

400000

IDEN

IDEN B

IDEN C

SCA

SECRET

SEPARAT COVER GOFACHNENT

-

Miguel DIAZ Isalgue

2328 N.E. 6th Avenue

Miami - Florida

Social Securits

30

SECRET

341307337

---

