# 104-10297-10211

## Page 1

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

& Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

CIA HISTORICAL RENEWS PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

Meep from Meeting, Ne. 2 with Dexeuke

Mol Nee 1a.11 June Pie (Flue getloty dof the looper in very power. l

Tractated from Russian Dy D. 12.

(N. talks almat surveillance of Soviel personel in the United Stales. )

Nonenhe: lord ene toll you -If---) luns alame in the Seales, although under

another nane.

I lad a cortain businone there. ..

O. This was 17) in Washington C?i?

- Nonenko: See, I was thero.

Q: On TDY?

Numenko: 19 days, 19 days only.

Q: Undor what name?

SE K

08-09-99

COLLEAS

NoBunko: NIKOLAYEV.

Q: NIKOLAYEV?

Nosenko: Iu Endand I was NIKOLAYEV and in your country I was NIKOLAYEV.

Q: ---first and middla name?

Nosenko: Yes, Yurly, Yurly, also Yurly,

Q: And In England you also were for a short time?

Nosenko: In England I was for ten and fiftoon dayo. •

Note: During the interrogation of Novenko in 1964, ho denled that he ever

said that he was in the Unitod Statos.

HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

CIA

=

2. You stated previously that while travoling to England and Cuba, you were

documonted as Nikolayev. Undor what cover did you travat'to those countries?

What was your Legend-Biography?

Note: Any KGB officer going abroad under another name and under

cover prepares a Legond-Biography to covor up his real

Identity. Il Nosenko travelled as Nikolayas, then his legend

omitted "the fact" that ho was a son of a Miniator because. f:

there was no Ministor of Shipbuilding Industry with the name

of Nikolayev, etc., ric.)

. 3. You stated proviously that in January 1960 you were processed to go to the

US with the Soviet Automotive Delagation. You obtained a passport in your

crue nario, Nascnko, bat she date was postponce, than cancelled. Who

selected your candidacy for the trip?' What were you supposed to do in

the USA? lthy was the trip postponed? Why were you processed in your

truc name, Nosenko, and not under the name Nikolayev, under which you

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

!

---

## Page 2

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

i ou

do In 1062 jon edure shas while working nial she dirili, yeus poor ersally

recruitoe lon Americhes. Pleane dire us their memen and how you

recruited thiers.

Note: Nosenko was asied why he vas chusen tre su lo Cierora in 1962

Internel of an oblicer brenn the Demarenront (KCil:) Delegation.

Annwering this question to mentioned the recruitenant of ten

Americans.

Excerpt from Mecting No. ¿ with Nonenko.

11 June 1262

Nosenko: Gribanov, the chief of the whole counterintelligence. (lis nano)

Oles Mikhaylovich Gribanoy... R0, Oleg Mikhaylovich Gribanov

locidud you so, that I must be here (in Geneva). I mals, "Be my

guest, Oleg Mikhaylovich, Lam noi saying no..." So Gribanon

docided "You will go. That's all" (Nosenko knocked on the deak)...

Well, what am IP.... Who have I recruitled?.. • . Ten Amoricans,

no more than thit.. a land Gribanor said "You will sol You must 501e

III. Soviot viras and other resulations for tourista travaling to the USSR.

L 1. Didn't you know or rerrember how Osvall'a vina was processed and

from what country Ostald entered the USSR? lo il ponsible that he

entored the USSR on a "podvisnaya" visa? •

V 2. You previoualy said that you saw Oswald's visa ripplication, but you could

not say from what country Oswald camo to the USSR.. In your opinion, le

It possible that Oswald received his visa application in some othen European

country, then went to Fiuland and through Finland eniered the USSR without

contacting the Sovier carsulate in Helsinki? Did you hear any talk about the

possibility that is described above? I su, when did you hear it and from

whom?

V 3. On 3 July 1961 you stased that you have seen Oswald's anketa (visa

application). Do you resember what was in that anketa? Did you read.

the ankcta? What did fuu mean that you saw the ankela? Was it in the

naine Loe Harvoy Oswald, or was there ariother name? Did you see the

name of the person ußo signed the anketa?

3

---

## Page 3

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

Ao sore yeou daree any infermation te the reffect that Onwald night not have

corse: in the Soviet commulate ur to the Genice linlunay in Helsinks 10

celair lois visie Could he hieve eleined is vine lu Switzerland ur Sweden

1oe:ne rose corne le eletsinti and, villon roporting do the Sovier commelate

ise Heluinki, harr liken a train to lanugrad and then to Moscow?.

l So bcceroling de your presious information, "iny louriul - he luys a lour

10 the Soviel Union, snakes out the ankolia, and thar comes lo Moscow."

.In what country die Ouwald buy a tour to the USSK? in what country dies

Oswald fill in the anketa? Is the ankla puca lo Muncow, lu what offico

in Moscow does it go? To MID, KGB? Is it possibio that all the data on

Oswald from his anketa was sent to Muncow by i cable? Did you roo and

read Oswald's ankela or a telegrain that Ouwald is coming to Moscow?

Is you did not read the ankela, who arnony the KCiB officere of the Second

Chies Directorate or the Firsi Chief Directoralo rond the anketa or had

access to it? Who would logically have accoss lo tho anketa?

v6. Recording to your previous information, any person who want to viuit the

USSR has to buy a tour. In a foreign tourist firm in his home country or any

, other country, and the touriat firm will mako arrangoments for his stay in

the USSR. It is understood that he must fill in tho ankota, and in additlor to

the general questions, the common tourist should mako requests for the

cities he intends to visit and for the accommodations he wants. The touriat

would know in advance when he recelves his visa his date of arrival in

Moscow, in what hotel he is going to stay, and what kind of accommodations

he would be given. The quention, then, is do you know when Intouriat

received Oswald's requeat and application and when it answored hin that

his dernands are met and that he is welcome in Moscow?

1%. From your knowledge, when Oswald arrived in Moscow, was he handled by

the Intourist Agency or by Sputnik, the Youlh Tourist Bureau of the USSR,

or by the Central Council for Tourism of the Soviet Trade Unions? •

Nole: The Contral Council for Touriom of the'Susier Trade Unions organizes

exchanges of lourists between trade unions of the USSR and other

ountries. Sputnik was organized in June 1958 for the exchange o

f tourists (students and other youths)

4

-

---

## Page 4

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

• 1. Whell an the peres endure aller a lourind agogolled leer a Sinial viri do you

know it wood tend led arones or in what dormise country Orsvilla applice...

sor de vosie lee there Ustill oor bought an beaur lee the UStill Whee wars there

Soviet Intourind representalive in thiet country vole took Ouwall's visa

application to thr Sevirl Emborsay

Jo. You staled provinualy thiel Oswald wis not conniered i defector. Il he

was not a defecter. then what was he?

Note: Il the KGB did nut consider Oswald te bu a defector, then it is

least a perinanent residence permit. Although he would be a defector

anyway, It could be that Oswald did not like the word defector

and the KGB decided not to call him a defector but, let us say, a

volunteer. Tho Soviet Constitution stateo that the USSR grants the

right of asylum to all foreign citizene "uto are persccuted for

safeguarding the interests of the working clans or who are persecuted

for scientific activities, for national-liberation struggle." (Article

129 of the USSR Constitution of 1936.)

I 10. You staled previously that "since about 1960, every Sovict ambassador

can give a visa in throo to five days. I so, what was so special for the

Soviet government that the ambasador would be personally involved in

issuing a visa to Oswald?

Notes it'la known that in 1957 the Soviet government adopted some measures

to improve travel for foraign tourists in the USSR.

concerned currency oxchange. The 1957 regulations said nothing

about visas. Nosenko should be questioned about the 1957 decision

of the Soviet government to determine il he is not mistaking the 1957

decision with that of 1960.

11. 'You stated previoualy that aince about 1960, every Soviet ambassador

can give vidas in from throo to fivo days. The avallable information

published by the Soviets unmistakenly statce that a visa cannot be obtained

In less than seven days (in somo cases it takes five to seven days). Following

are excerpts from a book entitled Moncow, A Tourists Companion, published ="

in Moscow in 1969, and from the magazine Soviet Life, May 1978, p. 59.

Soviet Life stated that "visas are issued within 10 days of receipt of

application at a Soviet consulate. "

---

## Page 5

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

1. Siran, ofe;

braint t'armito do 8.011e

P'ene A1 . sulé. 1.0..

l'is.ge ers

P. evalue solfore in cordy sunder fire

• Her rice in solid leer the gruber

l8, gono deadle dia odde al proes sevit or allor itie itineary, arpelo

pu. der verase lustdu al gour lostel. Il Intruist in able lo prosine!:

the serenery accumenlatine, gross sid will fee allered remed.

nely 40000.

charge

anal subserent alieraline in them, are free of

. Viess for leanoit brasch die the U.SS.R. Uy railuay or men

seeing i he Usage ou mind Suit the you diet,

448

fa8-ae128

ia USSK. by sir, gemided you du not day in Sinirt transle

erns firt morse than 24 hour

Inenarise durs nos serrice travellers who carre en visite lo pola

tires in the Surier Union. Neithee dues it aller srircs in

sawns where Intourial, agencies art unarailable In such casca

apply 8n a Satire consulate abroad

Under exciprocal arrectate: berkeen els Suntire Verhen arid

sorre altes cuuntries, no

sure aruntrirs for travel in the 11SSk. and lur Sirens toerists

mair rez these complica.

centikese los enery froni louis amt lastern l'alisten

Caslamse. Personal belungings sarmon.

shees

surine ainl

in graemeiries beers

ry for the time of say in the Snior l'wi

волена, яте сину. всее.

Desides, lessellit, Muds

loring ivey frie

cien seniors seed a

ine so the Suriet Union on a huning liur sidel they hare

a certificare inued lug Inturive ee a lure:in iralel Sum surfren.

ing this purpone of their lip! ney home guartin; salles.

To make sure passage hume no unhinered. pliere irzinre the

lorrign currency guns lease henasht mitte joe muelle stre acestrares.

which will issus your e porsines: essrimble.

purernmens lande, annullel newisies, arn. fine, soul leshish

and epsilerenes lue saneline share abourrie toi. sl. eral larche

bless, recuelo, ele, pulitrello eral erotiselle recimulicines poe

the L: SSR.

All abjerto and artileo lorespoe theme pronral..

P.o less; 81229

Do ahipped eus of the l'SSK8 in any quarr, persoled thes

hare bren parchased with Siniel

renal al

the

l'arshlung Heat of she LiN'SK. en the uit...

"ories of stre

Seate Bard al de USSD ilinbent

de.!

ruch snarle made surr you here the part red tund carriestro

or stropis trello

. Fo

6

---

## Page 6

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

•**•

de sentiro

1n30ya.

• .

penarolal pone allor.

ert del!

l'infronte anal tar. foor.t

o rest al li, press.

....

semello ....

1..0.. 1009095

488008 вoaea.11-

0 c. 1.

100010 a l 10000008 0008920005 asfoodo a ooo. •

sonerese solo, Peeren o she paleosieres nel pote .

e al torno fustrio

allea or 11.1 alluss

. ....:-...

chero

ept acorohoni onl eorey

Ierno lheo appoleçi poe ell espoo, al enolorare erobalio, ecsparte

majore legoleneraherical ado;rato, pailoray juentrouro luerale, eailvesy

bridgre, imlustrial entrepisione, url thre lobe. «levial jhartograguhy

sir al elre areninistraziono lusue sos or jour cinera inside

Inelutirs, tracerah in 1 ore

nel che oi ll sterali lo masere.

Pano, prei cloro your poi a di no

ennsent

¿sle - a mon sec ideein thrir

l you ancel lo nashe o Al, • l•entitrial preparro (la

acererpine stranita el corono.

• raioviniuna vie? argoly a

f.

Maly • .

Ров. 284.89 пл: Болт не горско

•brosky Perrulok Mnscow).

a montino clner suderriels (fima

Apla arat is

l'nimi are achef cond onfrly fus

вавоттія s..

Firery holet .

• lutelsre in sho

has an Infieres..

iS.... 110.

Il is vory naurai lo luerieto

real we arls inr aur.

: ero scultod

•.' Il con arrival lhe verire Luecrus

with frengo

wlre speak

mal: : ere no diffeules • muumesting with shera.

fureiro lanusper and you

Ine un their majue luelouns es eu exchange the rourliera issued

8a yure by your learel spent fur Intmurise cupone and to

renate all uther serrices

•*'.

Infuories takes sono el gre

-..-

The servire lerce witt rilieve you of all tearel sares and brink

lickets for you mo

internal and internalimael railay and air-

liace. Il will help yoe exiend your riss and perfoera all oller

portinone loersalitic

he servine berrou books lickela la thealere mareres, cinema

ind apnees commons Make sure that youa brook fichere well i

adseour. le esery Muscovite in an arid ibretre goer and avarts-

fan und fiutaro ur scaree.

go, pris el a theatre aryl reverel filer in e sa 150 rutire

aral rof e 1 eem nee Pieket 861 los il kon la.

Ihe arbor. bourseu will sell gree arturl is alusing el Semeno's

ole esero erzarol lalla eral cinemane

Il sove loner does mt centro e solsinos del you vist le extiter

vighte of Muscon, the serie luresu will le slad lo ramment

Mie bese sightereing iliver erice

I you need a guido inirepertei. the ursio lereau will be heges

a provide one. Intourial surls spork Finclis. Ruleariza Spanish

Kalän. Chinese. Hun-ie, Coreman. Folish. Portucurse. Rumero.

inn Sirhi-Crostian.

Finnich. Fernrh, l'erah. Sornlinh al Jar

un The vervieco af a puide interpereles ena sep en 3 bours-

sora. Ior cresy aularguens hous-i rello, ile leope!

'ou san hire a sur fur a richtorino lono al Meerone and .

mirons un molie e long-divener dicelone call cherugl e

nu. As guns brun, medicel verriere il the mitit linina erro.

al charge.

ecco tradi tie lequi moreno i

Il you are pareres ibemuch Mence eral farr cnlo a day •

42922227

---

## Page 7

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

1y618e.

sirse.

l'engueil. Irenady dingali puet Mirernt

nesstores ane the fores Mollo lounk les the Tireran.

.".

alerch. will dise ..

el thes celtural er lano-ener detireron une of Avers dial the

os sif the Sarrad &'anm Ihe coraron se rabes foar Aners 1

lo allermonis, quo e an-ais phe famenen Prelletro tre Corólor

s po 1ser". The sesaree, iemer af Keawen lini ait The sxeur

l: sou here a for mor, viels in denron, prial enors la soie pous

•e and initinations

• 080010 Your Trip

looses Nonener rose adto nels a Pour 0l thee. Sarict Uninn-lbe

leengues ne the Mack dea reuse and she Seberide paise pae

"sinian arppelands the muentrias al ler Crucarus, and the

993.16508 8usa115 esl Russis and Certral Air

•-re in the lise of ceties whee: Intourise ollers its serrices:

ringerd, erdille al the Russian revolution, a cilr al segai.

at archilectuer

-le Sna krolth e, mots of Batumi Oilerns, Sachi, Selburri am

in simen und ton fortren ditirs:

silirak-the kergeal industrial entre and rily of tricans in

reTA Siteria:

go.

ent, a mon Süterian corra ineighbouring on ese Piratet Mitrai

•Stalina na: ihe lagara erliicto ts ane al ste unrit.

"Tais, the ily near the lescadary Lake Basial:

• Helurenol, a major Sariel Far Eastera city

T. die

---

## Page 8

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

édiitiuaori inicercaracion%, eera

UUESTION, l ermulul likee lu ono n aesiclo alurees

lnsoerlo8 aceelone, perlero, ode. (8. 1. Airanar,

Minnpaplis, Minmoeub: М. Suyneng. Yasbaro.

Manachearse, und many uther rindore)

ANSTTF8: Inso meiet lo dor alatesogureneral arstunueso dal

srarel adency. Il works with aurne 700 firnis and trara

port rumpanies ln Denrly 11l1 ertnteies, önr lurhuß alrut

100 ia plue t'aiter Siratro leuemriot arrangro Enurs los

Soriet ritireno abread anf les luerienero in the Soriet

Uninn.

We estimale that Ze milliun lurrien trarelera

will rivil nur muntry betneen l'vile anrl 1710 and that

18 millon surirs prougete will èeo aleruead.

We will deal here unly with Intunrial sesriice for

lorcien travelere. Tlrey in lude aishtarrine excurcions.

eripa lo muaruran und llueriere, mertingo with Soriri

workers al forturina aod laems aonl wilh sinsirs sirdente,

round salile dioruashago nn enlupe slfa.po

ur indosenteral fereeso

Sntoueel oflecs alrine 79 drle te hunlo nl ernup

phror1p.

lnnrjos.

fahing. infesmasterel. coog-8i8-4.9.,890-00,0-0990--00

and aimpurinmo, arruiáinne

fur or houtrhikdren und

youlh, crusiaro, ast leorivale and more.

at apa. in she

• Mpay ibihe Sune Caroard aelirat ie sherre

amnal-h. tir-to8a1od Possogsrokl o8 om thr Hllack Sen

(Sorhi, inlra Uelrasao, Duonlo a losos asur) solo- a perema

ai a naRatariUm, ofmiel dire encalo, medical care und

other sirhre

A nem luut callrd the lunsian lanquaze Seminar to

rapidly gaining populerity. Iaides sering the rouniry,

the srareles has a rhance in lruch up oa Rusrien with

aperial rourere

Cool olrgriento un llre clano ued lyger al the rour, disi

lanre.

and nuralrér il serrjnca: latourise mirre a

disirausht

vun poeero, Ireruenlly as low as one

lourth of she

eeise. There are sprelal rut rairs toe

youth and

Broups, as well as for rhibtren.

Entry vi

pplrcalimas

nd mithio 10 dayo ol rancire ol

Purriea rurtenry

lurmalitios ase limiled lo derloring your rierreacy al

crestenia.

Intourine alco

anrepte

credie rard. (ram

furcien banke and firzae

ltinerarics include 1I5 eitico al the rountiy and are

desigard lo suis all lasics. You can chauur a orparale.

public or the whale eeumry, the Caurasus, silverie

ratral Asia, lire Fer tawe, lle terdrag rultural crntere

health srmalo or atriinel looot é'al oja.

For instane. Farnoso' la, a, lese., nrsn eal les--adool'.

major 115: parenceo, ottre- ller holtining cocuro:

1) "Spotliphe un Heravia and she Crimea" - 10 daya,

Moscni--Nitr-lalla-lenineral, price 0499 ln 1.129

lllara, depending on lhe eriy sl degarture loy air 1

ororsa a el aat po..

aeun (Tt. ene inrludr

air lare, houlel d' umnnodatiaroo - pues le eleraire (

shan for ner--phere mral. a das and guide seriira)

?) "Deasinalnm Hlark Sire and Ceue aausa". - 16 8a74

eniagrad -liochi -Thiliv--Yeerran -Mnscrn, 1,159

en 1.158 dullara

courie Amerieo Ee Cos Tre Coaor e iedo

Scirii Ceré, rrrg 1975,0.5%;

suse threne the Sbomnn, llearok, Irkntak, Taskkenl, Dol,

Ani a, Samoranad, llaber orul leninsead, lur 8OX9 to a

2,10%0 dollara

Inridentall;, il puue do plan lo enioe, fne moro derelsa.

do1 ins ersele minh sha intourtal oltioa:

Boialoy dorpselero, Intourial Trarsl Infracrassors, 10

Üa feest-nimh Strrel, New York, Nen York, 10017.

Trleighurs: (212) 371-6953.

otü. .

9

---

## Page 9

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

18. sono questione allume sinas coulo lo pur le diescroke leared en informarlore

provided in che lord, lour Trueto tho 156li lA Tenrisee Manel. 'The

berk is publiched ly terrige lalogagos Publicarion Moure, Moscow.

Michuugh chiere is no dute of publication in this bord, the information

pruvided in the luch strondly sugerate that it wils published nu later

than 1962. The information stater thal "it should not lake more than

a wrck to rrecise ond'a visi." Tle applicant must fill le and sign an

application form (sample enclased) and enclose three plutoiraphs of

passport sire as well'as a copy of the Intourist or Intourint contractor

lirm voucher to the offoct thit the applicant his paid the full cout of tha

tour. The tourist nced not apply to the Sovict consulale in parson.

as the tourist firm will tako care of the matter.

APTLICATION FORM

1us Persone Win Wist 80 Oblain an Entry Viss

• che

U.S.S.R.

A Transie Visa Thrount the U.S.S.R

(Write clearly in ink or lape all answers in full)

QUESTIONS

INSIERS

1. Surname.

name and parronym.

(persont wire hase rest than

one

turname, rir who hare pest nantes

must list them in fuit: married

wornen and widenus

inust

hei adel mames et fa

bari's surnarne)

2. Date and place ne lirito

-...-

3. Nationalily

* Chisenchip

-veniry, indicate

normet

citizen-

4D0

10

---

## Page 10

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

18p 1lr0mo e1s

the ....,*

Inust

$132

• •

.. Il minore under dei scaro el asgo

no accompanyone!

Blic surnamic, name and patronyin

1c el cach chutes

18. po

•Do U'S5K.

prodscale

wisen.

• Sumanes, name

and reliteres ul clers relativ

in the US S.R.

10. Your joe, mare .

Date

(day, month, year)

Signature

p. 35

DOCUMENTS

Visas

To enter amd leve

the U.S.S.R.. a for.

rigon

tourist

have a valid natlonal

passport and Soviet

entry and exit visis.

it should not tike

more than & wick in rersive one's visa

Citizens of foregn cuuntries are Issued Sovict visas.

trough Consular. of the U.s.s.R. In sheir own coun-

try. the applica: muse fill in and sign an amplication

form (see samplis and enclose three photographs of

pissport size, a: well as a copy of the Intourist or in-

marist contracier lirm voucher to the ellect that the

applicant has paid the full cost of the lour. The tourist

neer not apply so she Soviet Cunsulate In person, as the

tourist firm wili role cure of ilie matter.

Citizons of Mopria. Hungars, the German Derocral..

in Republic, the In satre Hijublic of Vier-Nam, the

¿'annese Peoples Regublic, the Korean Peoplé's Demo.

tralic Republic. du People's Republic of Mongolia, Po-

lonel, Rumonia und the Czecheslovak Republic heve the

eught. accordini dre a reciprocial agrecinent, to enter and

lete the sus: • lision withour applying fer Suiet visus.

on the basis d icir nationai masspurts aione.

11

---

## Page 11

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

dele doo crates indoo .

aral rait alureng: ele pomono aproeed ost and is sietel

.. 1 coral irene: Nie 0.5.5: 18. dirio porra glo 891o doep.

reno crl domosperideo do coragos de the the aliangio. les

Visporo deode lee sesiten: relativos in the U.S.S.R

Casonage doado 10as in.

•eral por prosar: "s en sruises and

Vei.Is

"fr

border-parenta 1o. 01.".

churge.

one itineriries and

•e allered free of

zoanait S'lns

A e sover fundo anem de So!

1eoo: .1s by sorior En.

• 1ralsol8 visas arm nereo.... del e ours ul any na

amalary Aying over the jorres, n: ine US.S.R.

, on

miriun that all procredlishs (u! nn lunger than 21

"urs' slay in any kiven paine of .lange) hare been

36

ace for him along the enfire roule through th

.S.S.R. and list tha passenger has lhe righe 1o ente

the next contipanus countr.

Health Cortieseee

"oi ao 0i.1 Africa. Soulh America and Asla must

nale al inserrational Vaccinalion Certificate, and tour-

ises ironu indis and Enstern Pakistan must have di certin-

case staling that they have been Inoculated against

desnic at she time of arrivs

2-37-

12

-_.

---

## Page 12

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

. rr

"piereprorto and Oller ferrolitico" dakon feress the breck, A Bleotorinl'es

Ciniede do the Soviet Unicaly Viser senin wred hin wife Jennifer lowin.

The berek wis published in Neasease in 196,7.

Dicke: Viktur Sonin and his wife are "slightly" knowes ia Nosenko.

....

30

Motoriato Guide

hand-enbroidere alir, ne fierer (15 roulica upward»); roys; gramopisone se

corde (a3 in. Ll'--8 rouble); tunne (comparalively inespennive); tradizione:

silver-gilt-and-eramiel ware (t,22 liny furk lon terron ur butterhalle & rouble

child'a apon with animal trasrele--3 roulleo): wood, alabaster on porrer

ornamenta

Il you nould like so visir she markets, you alreuld go as carly as possibl

in the day. You will be able ese tend in the marker gued qualey frenh fruir

which is niten lacking in ete barele. Also un sale strere are huney, fresi efe

arid dairy producto; there may le rainus itero of lucal handlwork as nell, 'Th

snarkere close as 5•00 p.m.

PASSPORTS ANID OTHER FORMALITIES

lo preler in chier and lave ebe Sorise Union a lurcign pourint muse basi

e valid national persapor sed a furice enery siza.

suvict sinos arr istesco

Iste of charge unually micháco a seven-day pertens frun lla rime ue

application lu liv Soviet Kentrany un Consulti in tu marius oun -nuntry

The harder painse througt usact the sourine enterò and lassia ile sionir

Union Inust tre thore indicsaed in tbe Susice visa.

Fureign rourinis' arrivale in the Seriet L'niu are rexiäreree winen tiry fisse

hand over finir parsports se ele turi Intouri sorvice pere isulecarcel on tuc vias

In sodizion lo Sovice viras, il is required that the citizene of ennes lestero.

European countries ohtain visas lur the Communia countries shronch which

shey will drive on their say un nod from the Smiet Uninn: tim Cientesy

Joland, Cacchoslovakis, Hurzaty, Kumania or Bulgaria; fiza fierman sixa

are orainable on entry in Biore cerenery.

Besides an Interrational Dénsing Permis, motorisle muse hring un inter-

national automobile registizina verificate al the country ol departure, vi

pulated in che 1926 Inicensional hetonsbile Traffic Cnnsentión. Teneristo"

1 care can le brought into she siniva l'ain aul takra mus aesin withrive paymen

of duly on condition thas she erarser gires a Mirillen guarante lu lake lie CE

out of the country upon departure. Tis quarantre is en le hauded mer to ch

cubiama authoritico al fle SenNa lerder.

Tis forbidden eo bring tie leming inea dive Soniet Union:

Printed matter, plante (Inus, tocds, eec.) and annuale are listolo su inspectes

y curenms authoritie

le is losehicklen lo lake mar al die Sosier Linion:

(a) arma and enmunition

1 3

---

## Page 13

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

÷

1: Holocussion Kill and AlY!

1. He would be unrfud le question Nonenter shout his knowledge of the chiefe

ur ele: 1ci1ß and the MVD in glee Bolorneation Kopublic. A list of nartem

folluis:

Kill and MS'D Chiefs and Deputy Chists of the Brilorussian SSSk.

Chiefe

Li. General Lavrently Forich Teanava - NEVI, MCI (State Security) 1911-1953.

-Maj. General Mikhail Ivanovich Dasknkov - MVD 1952-1954.

Ll General Aleksandr Ivannvich Perepelitayn - KGIs (State Security) 1954-1959

Aloksandr Nikiforovich Aksenov - MVD 1960-1965.

Lt. General Vasiliy Ivanovich Petrov - KGB (Stale Security) 1959-1973.

Lt. Gonoral Yakor Prokupyevich Nikulkin - KGB (Stale Security) 1973-

Deputios

Maj. General Aleksandr Ivanovich Perepolitayn - MVD 1952-1954

Arkadly Denisovich Rudak - KGB (State Security) 1959-

Alcksandr Nikiforovich Aksenov - KGB (State Sucurity) 1959-1960.

Maj. General Stepan Alck&cyevlch Smorodinakly - KGB (State Security) 1962-

- Ivan Lcopoldovich Lysakovekly - KGB (State Security) 1971-

2. What do you know about Alcksandr Nikiforovich Aksenov?

Note:

(a) Aksenov was Deputy Chairman of the KGB of Beloruasia

from 1959 to 1960. It is assumed that when Oswald arrived

in Minsk in January 1960, Aksenov was Deputy Chairman of

of the KGB and would definitely know about the Oswild case.

From 1960 to 1965, Aksenov was MVD Minister of Bolorussia.

Therefore it would be under his direction that Oswald's passport

and the departure of Oswald and Marina from Minsk was

arranged. 'Il Nosenko had acceas to Oswald'& file, he must

know about Aksenov.

From 1965 to 1971, Aksenor was First

Secretary of the Vitelsk Obkom of CP Belorussia, and since

1971, Aksenor has been Second Secretary of the Central

Committee of the Belorussian CP. Ile has been a member of

the CC CPSU since 1976, and he is also a deputy to the USSR

Supreme.Soviet. On May 9, 1978, Aksenov arrived in Columbia

Ile headed the Soviet delegation on the invitation of the Columbian

Communist Parly.

14

..1.:

---

## Page 14

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

I nov threw in ne deter do pat it of se holy

threnor with volos,

Marine Pawill her an interviers in 1968. Aksoner i also

mentioned in Me Millar's lesok (poses 132-1338. Anchor

allegesly seid lo Morinies "Tell your loughnue not to worry. I

beliere your request will fer printedlo" Mao ser pie 125 of

the same book.

13. Did you linew or know of Arkadliy Denitovich Redak?

night have takcn part i

in Minsk.

1. Diel you know or know ef Major General Stepan Alekseyevich Smorodinskiy?

Note:

Smorodinskiy wan Deputy Chairman of the KGB for Belorussia in

1962 and must likely know about the Oswald case. His name

would most likely appoar in the Oswald file.

J 5. Do you know It, Genoral Vasilly Ivanovich Petrov?

Note: Petrov was KGB Chairman for Bclorussia from 1959 to 1973.

Thereforc, il would be his agency, the KGB, which would watch

It is safe to assume that after the assassination

of Provident Kennedy in 1963, Petrov, as Chairman of the KGB

•of Belorussia, would review the Oswald file and send it to Moscow.

He would also have been called to Moscow KGB headquarters to

take part in the preparation of the spravka (summary) of the

Oswald file.

U6. What do you know about It. General Aleksandr Ivanovich Perepelitsyn?

Note: Peropelitsyn was Chalrman of the KGB of the Belorussian Republie:

from 1954 to 195%. Nosinko should know him or at least about him.'

Nosenko should be asked if Perepelitayn took any part in the

investigation of Oswald.

(Perepelitsyn was Deputy Chairman of

the KGB of the USSR from 1959 to 1967. He died in Moscow.)

". What part, ll any, was played by Genoral Sergey Grigoryevich Bannikov

in the Oswald case, especially after the assassination of President Kennedy?

Note: Bannikov was mentioned by Nosenko as one of the Deputy Chief of

the Second Chief Directorate and later on as one of the Deputy

Chairmen of the KGB of the USSR,

From 1968 to 1978, Bannikov

waa Deputy Chairman of the Soviet Supreme Court.

V. Nosenko - Nikolaycv

~ 1. Can you explain why you went to England and Cuba under the name Nikolayev

and to Geneva using your true name, Nosenko? What would have happened

if some Englishman or English intelligence officer had met you in Geneva

in 1962 or in 1964 and grected you in the presence of the other delegates

15

---

## Page 15

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

. eo

witle she words, "Oh, dira Nikolaged! How dri you?

I remember you.

P'ou visited England With the dear of ladora."

...

vr

11. Fromwhere did you doors that the GiRl was not informed about Oswal's

presence in the USSR? Wouldn't the GRU officer in Intourist, whona you

nicktioned carlier, have known about Oswald's presence in the USSR?

Did you ever hear that Oswald possibly had contact with the Soviet

intelligence during his service in Japan?

Z. You stated previously that there was no information that Oswald offered

to give information on the US Marine Corps. You did not read the file.

Then how do you know this to be the case? How do you know that the KGB

and GRU made no attempt to debric Oswald about his service in tho

Us Marine Corps?

/3. Previously you mentioned one Coluncl Voloshin as an officer of the

Defense Ministry of the USSR. Can you provide any additional information

on this Voloshin? Could it be possiblo that he was a KGB officer instead

of in the Defense Ministry?

Note:

(a) According to Epstein's book, one Pavel T. Voloshin was an.

administrator at Patrice Lumumba University and was a KGB

officer who accompanied a group of Russian dancera to los Angeles

in 1959 at just about the same time that Oswald was making

weckend trips therc to get his passport and possibly to make other

arrangements for his trip to Moscow.

A few weeks after Oswald

decided to return to the United States, he received a letter from

Patrice Lumumba University figned by Voloshin, (páge 111)

(b) P.D. knew one KGB officer by the name of Voloshin (first

and middle name forgotten) who used to work in SMERSH

(military CI) and later in the late 1940's and beginning of the

1950's in S & I Department of the KGB.

VIL. Marina.

1. I. From where did you pick up the information that Marina was a "simple

obyvatel" (a politically unaware person) and that she was not anti-Soviet

il you did not read the Oswald file?

16

---

## Page 16

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

. do

2.

You stalgel previously thar darind Was in Blokatel: too you herr any

comments on the following: "H'r knew each time you had a dare. No

knew when you applied for yourdenarriage licenue.. We knew the date of

your worlding." Those were the ivores of the lie remol recrrery in

Minal: when Marina was espelled from the komsomol.

¿ 3. Do you have any comments on Marina's stalement when she said,

"Our governincht (Sovict) knows every move I makc." She make this

comment shortly after her expulsion from the Konsomol.

- 4a. Did you know that while in Minsk Marina belonged to a group of youths

who gathered together to listen to Voice of Amorica and BBC? Would

that be enough for the KGB to have Marina in its card files? le it

possible that Marina was the KGB agent reporting on them?

u 5. You stated that if Marina had been recruited by the KGB, you would

know about it and it would be in the file. But you did not read the file.

How then do you know that she was not recruited?

V 6. You said that amorg Marina's relatives thero was an officer of tha Minsk

Milltia, a It. Colonel. Do you have any commonts on Marinals

revelation that her real father was a traitor and that he was shot? it

ber father was a traitor and he was shot, would his name be in the KGB

card file? Would the name of Marina's mothor be in the KGB card file

as the wife of a traitor? Le it then possible that Marina's name also

would be in the KGB card file somewhere?

7. You stated previously that KGB had no interest in Marina prior to her

meeting Oswald and that the KGB investigated her only after Oswald

applied for permission to register marriage with Marina. How do you

know that? Did you read a special file on Marina? Marina revealed

lately that while she was living in Leningrad in 1958 or 1959, she met

a diplomat from lighanistan who lured her to his hotel room and tried

to make love to her.. Do you think the KGB in Leningrad would know

about this diplomat and whom he lured to his hotcl? Is it possible that

17

---

## Page 17

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

Marie sad alrendy a lill agunt and ahe was dirretes les lure llee

diplomode de flee hotele in rither case, the AGlß would dicfinitely know

abund Morrinie ind il she deas deserd log the difill as a lorie for loreleers,

mighe she have already body an experienced keis agone?

•So lo disled previouly that you sar Oswald's file only brielly and you

road only a aumary. Then how would you know that Marina wise novor

useel by. the KGB? Did you personally muke a direct check on whothor or.

nut Marina was a KGB informant?

9.

In your previous testimony, you eategorically denied that Marina wan a

KGB-MVD agent or informor. Do you have any comniente on Marinalo

statement to Lifo Magazino that she waa a "Soviet agent"? Is thero any

possibility that the KGB or MVD in Belorussia or in Leningrad, whore

Marina had lived previously, had recruitted her as an agent or informor

and she continued to work for the KGI or the MVD until her departuro to

the US? Did you have any Information about the posibility that thore was

another file In the KGB on Marina, a file for an agent or informer of the

KGB or MVD? Il such a filo existed, it must be reflected in the Oswald

file, as wall as in the summary which you read..

10. Did you hear or know that while in Leningrad Marina dated one Oleg

Tarussin, a student who had ambitions to enter the Soviet diplomatle

service and who had some trouble with the authoritica over a minor

political incident?

¿ 11. Was there any information in Oswald'a file to show that alter Oswald.!

marrica Marina, Marina was in the hospital for about five days?

'12. What do you know about Marina's vacation in Kharkov shortly altor

she married Oswald?

Note: She may have bcen in Moscow instead of Kharkov.

13. Did you know that while in Minsk Oswald was in the Fourth Clinical

Hospital for surgery on his adenoids? (Oswald goi special attention from

the doclors.)

Note: Marina'a Aunt Valya, whose husband was an MVD Colonel, sent

esgs to Oswald while he was. in the hospital.

--

...-.

---

## Page 18

MORI DOCID: 349181

104-10297-10211

1 1.

Yen pressusty needed thel the reason Short Chore were me Dillo Illing ite

in these sary of Migrann marriage do a loreigns and ler doparture from.

the Sraine Union vire berinse Orall Mas alrrarly living and werking ins

the Sovice thion. How would the liGh have reacted fo Onwalde marrings

If they la kane dal Goodle garde a from de der Aeneriran Preloaray

berore lola murriage aunt his dosier du return du lei Unitrel Stater?

Diel you know chill Oswald asked the American Firnbasay for permlasion

lo relurn to the United Stales before he married Marina?

VIII. Nowenko and Onwalilsans-like

, 1. Describe in detail your porsonal involvanient with Oswald and with the

Oswald case from the day Oswald arrived in the USSR do tho day of hio

doparturo from the USSR.

What positions in the KGB did you personally

hold at that time?

• 2. Describe in delail your personal involverent with the Onwald case after

the assassination of President Kennedy fron: 23 Novimber 196J to the day

of your defection to the US.

• 3. In what activities were you involved in conncction with the Oswald case and

tho assassination of Progident Kennody shilo you were in Gonova at the end

of 1963 anil tho boginning of 1964? Name any Soviet diplomats or oflicers

of Soviet Intelligenco (KGB, GRU) with whom you diacussed the Oswald

case and the death of the American President in Geneva.

U 4. Are you aure that there was no file on Oawald in the KGB before ho.

arrived in the USSR? How do you know thia? Did you peraonally check 117

/ 5. You proviously told American authorities that on the cover of Oswald's

ille "there definitely was a 'klichka'." But you said you did not remember

the klichka. Do you reniember

whether the klichka was one word or two. As you did not read the file,

is it possible that it was an old file, opened a low years prevlously by

the First Chief Directorate or by the GRU?

...

19

---

## Page 19

104-10297-10211

MORI DoCID: 349181

..

e, lene aregood perms rostalg flare notarly from the kill hold an intorent in Onsalso .

but Dandel adoree that der had loon interviered by officials of the MVT)

for Keill) oot loose lvice on his arrival in the Usik and arin le fore his

departure. What was said dent, cluese tuterolema in the Orwalt lile or

In tie summary (opranka) of Donald's file? Do you kron the namen of

the people wise talked in Oswald? Wine ll the Krill, MUD, or boih?

7. What do you know alone the "Infourial guire" Rusa Agaronova who

vivilrel Ouwild in hiu hotel room shortly after his arrival in Moscow?

8. Did you pernonally know Binna Slicokova, the Intourist guida or

Interpretor? Was she a KGB officer or KGB agent working for Intouriot?

Wug thero a report in the Oswald Illo that Rimma Shirokova sent two

poutcards to Oswald in Minsk (rom some vacation placos in the south

of the USSK? Did you know that kimma Shirokova visited Oswald in

Minak?. (See Epstein's book, page 124.)

Note:

Odwald and Shirokova allogodly talked about the possibility of

Onwald sturlying al Patrico Lumumha Univereity in Moscow, It

also should be noted that Shirokova visited Minsk shortly after

Oswald and his wifo Marina docidod to go to the United States.

9. How did you know that Officer Krupnov wrote a roquest and opened a case

Illo on Oswald? Did you soo whet Krupnor was writing 1t? Did you read

the request or hear about it from somebody? 'll you saw it, who approved

and sanctioned the roquest? Il the KGB had no interest in Oswald, then

why was a file opened?

10. Provioualy, on many occasions, you stated that the KGB had ng, inter eat.

in Oswald, that he was not normal, and that he should leave the country.

Who among the KGB junior and sentor officers made the decision that the

KGB had no intercet in Oawald and that he should leave the country?

Describe in detail how you learned about it, from whon, from what

documents, and when.

11. How did you know that there was no microphone in the Hotel Berlin room

where Oswald stayed? Did you personally check the room before Oswald

arrived?

:

- :

20

---

## Page 20

-.. M.!

104-10297-10211

MORI DoCID: 349181

The lone selled that to litill oflicer mint ever in confaer with esnahl. llow

could you make such a prateend it fine did end read the file" You were

nor responsible for il, dudle according lu pour information, grou did noe

i..=.

visit Minsk to study the Oswild coss.

Nots: Onald's diary clearly alons that more of the students he met were

10de likely not studento at all. They were more likely liGl officers

under cover as students.

13. You neated proriously that ll was Officer Krupnov who wrote a requent

and opoled the case file on Oswald, which was later sent to Alinak.

Namo other officera who participated in making the decision lo opon.

the ille, who handled the file, and who sent the lile to Minska. What

part did you porsonally play in Oswald's caso whilo Oswald was in Moscow?

, 14. You stated provioualy that the Second Chiof Diroctorate of the KGB was .

not Intorest in Oswald bocause ll was concerned only "with internal.

mattors. " Isn't it true that tha Second Chief Diroctorate is the intorna?

counterintelligence organization and is responsiblo for foreigners who

enter the Sovict Union for any reason? Isn't it true that the tourist

departnient of the Second Chief Directorate is responsible for foreign

tourists such as Oswald? Thon why wasn't the Second Chief Directorate

interested in Oawald? Do you see any contradictions in your statemont?

115. You stated that there was no attempt made to exploit Oswald for

propaganda purposes, such as Radio. Moscow broadcasts, TY, lectures,

etc. How do you know this? Do you have any comments on the following:

"On October 19 (1960), Ico (Oswald) was interviewed in his room at the

Hotel Berlin by a correspondent of Radio Moscow, Lev Setyayer, who

was ostensibly sceking his impressions as a tourist to use in propaganda

broadcasts overacas." Was there an officer in the KGB by the name of

Setyayer? Was this interview organized by the KGB?

16. Do you have any information that Oswald might have been met in

Leningrad by Intourist and then made all the arrangements so fo to Moscow?.

21

---

## Page 21

104-10297-10211

laste, od

MORI DOCID: 349181

8. •

•

in the niere def the cofficeer ard bis deportonend sole diel nor while in

Mosers, Powald was Interviewed by al leant three Arerican Corrempondents.

In de your copinion that le Secomt hich Directorite was not interontet lo

lind one whey Onwilel tolleel le there newspaperren and whee thrg were?

lun't that pare uf the fCilin responsibilitioni

18. According le your aliternent, Obwald wan not connidered norrnal. Who

determined that he wan not normal? How masy ductors, from what

Institutions, concluded that Oswald was not normal? The Second Chiof

Directorate and Intourist officero could not cuncludo that Oswald was

abnormal without mcdical expertine.

U 19. Il Oowald was abnormal, then why did Soviot authorition, for examplo,

the Ministry of Foroign Aifairs, not inform the American Embabay about

it?

Note: In his provioue interrogation, Nouenko hesitatod in answering thoso

questions.

~ 20. You stated previoualy that Oswald was in the hospital, the hospltal sald

that Oswald wan not normal, and there was no action taken to inform tha

American Embassy. How do you know all of this ithout roading the .

Oswald file?

~ 21. Why do you think that the American Embassy would not have takon Oswald.

Il he had bean turned over to them? Do you know that any Soviet

government office contacted the American Embauty and informed them

about Oswald's presence and the suicide attempt in Moscow?

22. Was the only reason that the Soviet Government did not inform the

American Embassy of Oswald's alleged suicide attempt that it was fearod

that he might try it again?

- 23. You stated that there was no psychological assenement of Oswald by the

KGB nor by the hospital, and that there was no report of that nature.

You did not read the file. You read only summaried. Then how could

you know that there was no such report?

Hov' long was the summary--

100 pages?

vis.

:

22

-

---

## Page 22

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

.o, .

•

2-1. Do goee knose whee oned ly wolon a lit pron paramport war issueri to

Oswald? Where wan ll issued?

Are alalelors paraports exually

issued by the MVD en the recruncelation and approval of the kG1s?

What would happen If Ur: MVD issued in Mellons passpore without

KGH knowledge er if the KGB was against it?

-25. You staled previouly lhat the KCill cunsidered Oswald to have rotalnod

his American cleizenship while he was in the Soviet Union. Do you havo

any comments on the fict that alter his arrival in the Ussk, and altor

having made oral requests for Sovict citizenship, he returned to tha

American Embassy, denounced his US cilizenship and throw out hie

American pasuport to tle American Consul at the Fimbassy.

Do you think the KGB monitored Oswald's conversations with the

American Consulate officers or recolved reports from the Aniorican

Embasay (from Sovict employeca there or Soviut agents there) about

Oswald's denunclation of US citizenship? Did the KGB instruct Oswald

to denounce his American citizenship at the Amorican Embasay before.

ho would be permitted to apply for Soviet citizenship?

v 26. You atated that the decision to give Oswald a stipend was mado by the

Red Cross. Explain in detail how the Red Cross learned that Oswald

arrinod in the USSR. Who informed the Red Cross that there was an

Amorican who, needed help? Why was it decided to give holp from the

Rod Crosa and not from the Trade Unlon? It is understandable thät

Oswald might not have had enough money to start a now life in the USSR,

but ho was not a poor beggar who noeded to be turned to the Red Cross

Instoad of the Trade Union. How did you find out that it was the Red Cross

that made the decision? According to available information, the Red

Croas doos not assign money to anybody without the recommendation of

some other Soviet office. Which office was it: the KGB, MVD, the

Council of Ministers, Intourist, or the USSR Supreme Soviet? Who

23

---

## Page 23

+ --

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

started it dersto d'hoo are the abree indone the armorand to pars Girsealed

Why wan is der idles to pang hire 700 rollons a month insted of 500 or

100D'

What war your salary in i beili offing? Approximately

100 rulelen a moult, now murlue farle it true that Omalel reccived

more than you sliet?

27. If il was decided by the FoOle officern ind by Soviet doctors that Oswald was

abnormal, then why was he permitter to marry a Soviet citizen?

Note: According to Soviet lian, in rivery union republic, Including

selorussia, the rissriage cannot he permilled between person

If one of them is pressuncer à rental case or imbecile."

Did you have any information that the Minuk KGB reporied to Muscöw

headquarters Oswald's intention lo marry a Sovict citizen, in this case,

Marina?

vi 28. You stated previoualy that Oswald's file was sent to the Second Diroctorate

of the Belorussian KGB. Hrn do you know that it was sent specifically

to the Second Directorate and not to the KGB chairman or his deputy :

with a special instruction?

~29.

What do you mean "to keep an eye on him" (Oswald)? That, according

to your words, was the instraction from the Soventh Department of the

Second Chief Directorate to the Belorussian Socond Directorate of the KGB.

30. You stated that there was no visible surveillance of Oswald, there was no

microphone, in his apartmint, tut you stated his mall was monitered and

that there were agonts arourd Oswald in places whore ho worked and lived..

Explain how you learned about it. Do you know tha names of any

agents who reported on Oswald? If you did not read the file on Oswald,

how could you know about it?

y 31. Previously you stated that Oswald was handled no dilferently than any

other American defector. ".... The only dillorence was that he was not

to be allowed to stay, and he was considered to be abnormal." Il this was

the only difference, and it is quite a big onc, then why was he allowed to

stay in the USSR? I Oswald was "not noxmal" according lo the KGB

olficers, then this should te soled in the Oswald file which was sent lo

24

:

--

-

---

## Page 24

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

the Haleression Kill. Therefore, the liGill and All in Belorussia knew

about it. Then hus and why was Orwäll permitted lo harr a shortun

which he hope in his apartight in Minsk!

...

i 32. Do you have any information that while in the USSli, especially during

the jear 1960-1901, Ornaki might have leen visiting Cuba?

Note:

Nosenko claimed that during Octuber-November 1960, he (Nosenko

with a group of STATE PLANNING COMMISSION®

METALUKGLSTS headud by Ivan Strigen. He stayed in Cuba for

two months.

133., Do you have any comments on the statement made by slarina's uncle,

the MVD colonel; "I tought that Alik (Oswald) had not only given up

his American citizenship but had become a citizen of the USSR."

Note: The question is that il an MVD colonel thought or could be fooled

by the KGB that Oswald was a Sovict citizen, it is possible that

he really was a citizen or that the KGB spread the rumor that he

was.

V34. What do you know about Oswald's association with the Foreign Language

Institute in Minsk?

~35. To your knowledge, what KGB, GRU, and other intelligence schools

or training courses were in Belorussia during your work with the KGB?

j 36. What do you know about Oswald's application to attend Patrice Lumumba

University in Moscow? Why was Oswald denied entrance to the University?

Nute:

At that time, Colonel Yerzin, senior KGB officer, was a

deputy director of Patrice Lumumba University. (P. D.)

137. Did you know that Oswald took with him to the American Embassy

a Jotter from hia friend Ziger in Minsk? Oswald loft that fétter at che

American Embassy.

i 38. What do you know about the fact that Oswald, while in Minsk, received

American magazines and other publications? Do you think the KGB knew.."

about it?

39. Did you know chat Oswald was helped to study Russian at the Minsk plant

by ons of his co-workers and by one of his friends, Erich, and by a girl

at the Foreign Larguage Institute? Do you know the nanies uf thase people?

25

---

## Page 25

MORI DOCID: 349181

104-10297-10211

10. Ih.ii do you know about Donald's escoriation ou froadship with foreign

students in the USSk in Minch and Moscows Do the names

03

Jare L

03

Trill anytling to you?

11. What do Oswald's files show about his contacts with Culen students In Minsk?

Note: McMillan's bodi stated that Owiel logan to seek out the Cuban

students in Minsk, of whun there were 300 or so, to learn whist

he could of Castro's revulution. (See page 127.)

: 12. You stated previously that Ossald was a poor shot and that during his

hunting trips he did not kill anything.

Was this information, in the summary

you read? Do you have any comments on the fact that according to the

Warren Commission Report and the records of Oswald's service in the

Marines that he, Oswald, was a sharp shouter and marksman? Was

the "fact" that Oswald was a poor shot muntioned in the summary?

43. You stated previously (27 and 29 July 1864) that you saw the file on

Oswald only briefly and that the file was at the Seventh Department

for only 35-40 minutes. Then how do you know that nobudy in the

Sovict Union, including KGB officers, ever sat down with Oswald and

got all the information on Oswald? Was everything that you told to

US authorities about Oswald picked up from the summary during those

35-40 minutes?

44. Describe in detail how you and other officers of the Seventh Department

of the Second Chief Directorate worked together on writing the firet

Sprayka (summary) on Oswald. You also stated that this spravka

(the first one) was prepared in Moscow before the Oswald file from Minsk

arrived in Moscow. What material did you use in preparing the gpravka?

Was there another file on Oswald in Moscow or was it a control file

(Kontrolnoye delo) ?

• :

-

derciop the casc. This headquarters file is called the Control

The Under development he pretion to is already an agent or

26

---

## Page 26

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

1s. l'ou seated that when the file an Ormald arrived from dinsk, you.

topeller with ofher officers looked quickly through the lili, shen serior

officers l'edosegor and Malfeyer of the First Department of the Second.

Chief Directorado took the fite and you neror sew de again. Becauso the

file wins in your department only 20-30 minutes (in atler places Nosciko

said 35-10 minutes), thes pravka could not be weillen in such a short

. .

time, and because the file wils taken away to the higher authoritios of

.. .

the Second Chief Direclorate and to the KGB chairran, you had no chance

to soc llie second Spraska. Then again the question is which summary

did you read--the second or the first or both? Describe in detail how

long the aummary was, what was in it, and how long it look for you lo

read it. Did you make any notos fron the summary in case later on you

had to report the "facts" lo US intelligence?

16. What do you know about Oswald's visit (from Minsk) to the American

Embasay In Moscow on July 8, 1961?

Note: Oswald flew from Minsk to Moscow allegedly without permission

from the Sovict authority.

What do you know about Marina's visit to Moscow on July 10, 1961?

What part did the KGB play in the arrangements of Marina's visit lo

the Amorican Embassy in Moscow without checking her papers and

without stopping her at the gates.

In what hotel in Moscow did Oswald

and Marina stay at that time?

/47. You stated previously that the Firal Chief Directorate prayided no

information about Oswald beforc Oswald went to Mexico. What

information did the First Chief Directorate give to the Second Chief

Directorate before he went lo Mexico? Did jou read this Information?

If you did not personally read it, then how did you learn the contents of

the First Chief Directorate Information? Who from the First Chief

Directorate particulke yao the officers of the Second Chief Directorato

and with whom did they talk?

--

27

---

## Page 27

104-10297-10211

MORI DOCID: 349181

19. How dies you learn whate Duval Grid of The Goviet Fenderany in Mevico Cily?

Whee troll your dead Girdield wander toe roturn to the USSle Was this written

in the sarmnary?

28

---

