# 104-10174-10032

## Page 1

104-10174-10032

4 Mag 1960

MEMRANDUN YOR: Chies, Covert dotion Start

Saward G. TICHBORN (P), PAD Contrast Agent

1, Thio mamarandur 18 In roply to your request for baokeround data

OI FICHEURi fOr UNA 10 YOUr disOUBAlUA ulta Chies, Politioal Aoz101, s/bo

TICHEL vas recrulted by lorsco li. Davic In the fall of 1959 sor

unA 1n tuo PAD palliloal advlsor program, 1.0, adtising foraien contaota

Of KUHARK an palltioal organtaatlan and tachalquod, pertioularly an they

apply to alastica catpalga.

0 3. IICHBORN 10 an anorican altison,

Posara ald, he lo a gradusto of

and has boen an attorner, specialiaing in trial work In

no enterod pulitigs in los angelos the sane your

o da allotad (read dant of the los antald ou cats, 190-550

Teampalen. In 1952 and arein 1a 1958 he vaa e nanber of both

Joanpaign®

In addition ha has partlolpatod in numerous loe. camalens. In 1958 ho waa

Hla present estivities Include mamborship 1a

08

lo In January of this year TIMBORi travallod to Cuba on behalf of li

Divialos whoro ho spont about two voeks ascossing the political altuation,

with asphanla o asoartaining the strangths and weakesses of the non

Commiat sroupo, and investigating the possibilitlos at a ovelenoence of

thoso groupa lato appalitical organization.

de briefing sessions prior to

Ma doparture, TIGHBORA rencastratod an lenodiato erasp of the typo of alsolo

proposed lo hind upon his rotura, revealod considerable insight into eu

Cuban situation.

a. (2 1.3203)

G/ps

---

## Page 2

14-00009

So Mll Divialon recolva tro coplos al the desololle roport in

Pebruary.

Briarly, pota al the operallionl Information and suzgestion

afteral by TICHRi are as follous:

TICIDCRH ballors that Incuoenat al defoctiona anong the

CaIRo follows would hara nore offoct on casino than sug

other singlo sotion vo right undervati.

Thare 1s & Icag-standing sabden between I1dol and Raoul.

caiRo, sadab 1t exploitad, could bo operetically advantagoona.

do Most Isportant, TILIBUNI esphaszed that CasTRO wunt not be

nierestlested by the V.So, nos vrilton off as mother

Latis Anortoes toralutionary.

6, TICIZONs"s falo 1s arallable for rovler In PAD. Mia true umo da

forvarded under coperate oorer.

Moraco V. Davia

Chias,

Palitionl sction Divladon

Orig & 1 - Addresses

1 - Subject file

Chrono

.......

---

