# 104-10172-10302

## Page 1

104-10172-10302

ROUTING AND RECORO SHEET

FROM:

R101 (x;

17, 1,308

TO

CATE

1.

Paima tha sorel short et be desieres star ii,

dattiment is filod

CORAMENTS

MICHOFILNED

AUC?% in:"

Quidasce which wild help the

verve to help hes award ong po thle

o trops which she might wath

Dt is kand to decide foresthis

WE-I/CE

8.

9.

RE

10.

11.

12.

13.

18.

18.

16.

17.

18.

19:

28101F1

ENCLOSURE

DATE MICROFILHEO

Way comments?

74 sele

114-

corrente?

OFHUS2915

22

#.$

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Net Repredice

ABSTRACT

INDER

08м 6100

4. 48

USE PERTIOUS

10111008

FILE HUMULA

DAiNMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

Gly 55% Den03981

SECRET•

10)

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Chiaf, Ma

Chie!, S8

Cheer of Station

22

Come ros:

3C1-1SC156

4-1

10 JET 2958

None.

A.

OF HAY 3982

B.

OF HA-3983

6.=9.910

Do the Joat do or baron rock ASS/s and AVA DYE NON"

contaste with Origorly IE. GOLUS.

As ve have mentioned in previcas dia-

catches, 45/3, had not DOLl al the Sorlet Babasay wallo she was applyin

for her vloa

o to Soviet Indon last Fobrunry COLUB seemod to to quite

impressed with AlBani Ler ability to speak Ruasian and sule ber promise

tant when she returied fies the lsR she would come in and tall din al

sho tripo As 18 also JoNã, (AE73 10 = 500

personal triand 'Er (AR/5.2QE3 ment to tho train station to sur 'arovall te

02(1i/5 prior, to the latters trip into the Soriot Unlon. At the tale

agala to invito her to hla offloo la the Embaasy to tell hin abort 1t, She

o do that no one a fat had been very to introd or ea

Upon hearing that lils lould be on the train to Leniograd he

called LuDDY over al Introduced (A33, and lAR/5, to LYUBINDY stating that

BOW LauDDY sell here an attractite young lady. to talk with on the train.

On about 20 MAYlAS)3 dropped Into the Sorlet Embassy to talk sita COLDB

an she had pronised. GOLI3 vas quite busy and therefore only has the chance

to chat for a very lew ainted. Hormer, when he heard that she war

leaving the first week in Jue, he invitod her to cone to a farmall dinner

Eed left Halaini, as ve are basing to

+3/PV

+ 80 93

CoL ta sado arrangesanta to meet boca (as and (E/5' in tho dovatora soction

of Halsinkt on the evening of the dinner, COLUB celled a tarl, and the

threo of then drove to bis apartment.

Introduced both of them to his dro, Ilna. There vas no one else invited.

coruB first apologised for the large aise of the apartment and the fact

that It was as sparsely furninhed. He statod that In Hoscow they aireys

had a snall apartment but valle in Halainel they felt obligated to baro a

larger place where they could entertain 21575 stated the apartasa: vas

quito old with mary rooms, all of vich vare quite large. One or to a

the rooms veran's furniahed at all. The furniture did not appear to se

and not particularly la good taste but seu

o old, was send ar ays could observe, the colla"a had no kitter

help or other domestics.

she baldered that Golus'a vito had flani tis

dinner hersalf.

The wife also aarved the linner. There was never ary attempt

during the evenles to ply the tuo girls with liquor.

The GOLUBa semai

small appetisers including caviar baore dinner, a little vodka mita the

meal, and a glass of sognac ator. fbe evening uaa quito pleasan:, uni

COLUS and blo wife seemed to fat along fine.

The latter vas filead and

sociable and diu not appear sermous.

One of the main ronsens sty 00633

cold them bo vantal thea to core lo dinner vas to bea- sono Russ:i.

L'S PRETE

7710+T1O4

49 AND g! 38

urs!

!Cristo

---

## Page 3

22

CONTNUATION OF

DISPATEN .

raunda and espalally some el hla Challaçin racorde, After dinner GOLUB

n'n aboval then der Sorlot husalan art booka and soss al his other acmentos.

orrylas sone reels of file und a sorde projector. COLUB intrutaced this

roung san to the girle but Ats dis not catch his neo and did sos vant to

nake an abrioua attenpe to uind out what his san vas. À screen and tae

projector vere sat up la a roon in valch there vas no furalture.

Then

OLI3 anked the tvo girlo and his vife to cons in aa he vantod to shou som

Cules, Body's andalys here delighted barause they felt they were goin

to noe some iLlas on the Soriot Unior. Hovever, the only filma that GOLUB

had vere sone Walt Disney cartoons Starring Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck.

During the bowing COLUB laughed uproarfously and seemod to enjoy the Illma

trendourly. Alter the filma they vent back into the living room und

chatted some more.

About 2300 hours both the girle felt they had stayed

long mough and said they would have to be going. GOLUB stated that he an.

. As they loft the apartment Mris. GOLUB

alacere la their farevella.

not to a ting

3.

they were both looking forward to more such social evenings.'s stated

ater that the evening was very pleasant, that both the GOLUBa were ver

ociable and seemed to enjoy having then, Sinco AE 5 apesis better Pinnie

than aho doos Russian, she and COLUB seemed to be together most of that.

evenlag 212/3 does not speak Finnish, so she waso?paired by necesaity with

Mra. COLUB who knowa Do Finnish,

an 11o COLLE and As were walking to A5'°

partent, they lagged about one half a block behina kre. COLUB and lEg.

2 (75 martioned how much she enjoyed neoting Mrs. GOLUB and the Invitatio

for dinner. COLUB stated that bafore hia wile and he were married they had

mown each other for a long bluo und murriage. just seemed to be the nart

top: he said that now he and his vile are "good pala", and he als

encloned thet his wife, although she liked Helsinld, did not like th

weather which onused her a lot of aickness?241/5, who l8 quite outepoken,

tatal, "Then there 1a only one thing for you to do und that la to appi.

"or « transfer because your wife's health is wuch nore important than row

job." GOLUB responded very quickly atating, no, she was wrong, the job was

certalnly more important to him than his viro, COLUB stated that ho was an

orphan and that the Communist systen had given his everything.

Another interesting thing happened In the COLUBe apartment after dinner ol

while they vere listening to the Challapin records.

caLls turned to B/S

and said, "The friend that you not in the Sorlot Ualon who lo tridng to send

you Challapin recorda is having a hard time finding them because all the

tourists are buying. then up." This sbocked and surprised (AS 3. because sbe

had never mentioned to COLUB or anyone in Finland besides the Endersired

that one of her contacts, Turi SOLOrSKIY, (Seo Personality Annax #1 of

he never nartloned it again.

COLLIS

¿alled Ays once or tulce after tas linner to invite hor out sala,

but Ays had alvara perious engagements.

On 16 June GOLUB pioned (AE)5 and

askal. 1f abe could jula his and his rife for a movie on Saturday niglit, 20

June 21r 5 sald no, that she had plans for the weekend. He ten said

how about friday evening. She said so, she was silli busy. He said the

Thursday. She was still busy, and he said than how about lonrrow nicht

me felt she hail to accort at tnia roint

a and ala wife vould seat lals la dovatorn Helsinis. "a)s, on the nex

spot alone and found COLUB tharo alone.

COLUB as his wiie) COLUB Bald that bla vlo foll a little 11l and decided

not to come to the noila b1th then bor that she had sent a pitt alone for

ratus then cave les a racer bag contalniay a set of laaronsire

wooden Russian dolla. CIs vas quile laken bask by the fact that Hrs. COLDE

198 gJe

---

## Page 4

8.

CONPINUATION OF

DISPATCH -

vasn't Chers jat salt ase sad to go alone to the morio.

They went to the

Capitol Theater In Halsint: salch unmily abora Soriot fline.

to the caniler, spcia Enasins, and ortored tue lickera.

Whan tary walked

Into the theater di)s,sote that thare vare very con popio in the theater.

coLuB had bought the

Sosi erpensive grats, Inges, salch are individual

compartmenta usuaily for to people! 2J17s us annhat persous and manasy,

novover, CoLts was a parrot gentleman throughout the shole partormance.

Arter the sovlo GOLUB valted 1765 to her bus.

They walked around the tomm

for about an hour vailo the tuo

Of them dlausoed Sorlet polltleal thoory,

and Sovlot Ta vestern onitro. Her conclusions vare that COLUB la a flI

allevar and mupporter of cia syste

but still talked objectivaly and

atalligently wantlag to eplain to As)s why se ballered communiem vaa th

boat system. COLUB vas quito roolferota about this, apolo quito dallaitely,

Intently and waved hia arms as he spoke.

He firaly bellered that eventualiy

the wbole vorld vould be commintic and thia vould come about peaceably

and naturaily?Y12/5 relani the Hungarian Revolution to COLU3 as an example

of how "peaceably" coummin vould come about. GOLUB stated Sovlot Russin

had to intercede, that the bull of the poopie in Hungary vant a commiet

goverment, and only a few renotionaries startod the revolution. He atated

that that was the reeson they had to sand sovlet tanka. He then brought op

the example of the US action la Guntamala, Men this took place, he stated

the Sorlets protested and protested, but everyone knew in the Soviet Union

that this notion was something the is had to do to protect 1ta ou Interesta.

He sald this was the sine sitantion in Hungary.

so Was utated that even though the diaousion/ergument was quite long and

intense it never becane hantes nor did COLUB become angry. He kept repeating

OLto els that she should return to the Sorlet Unlon for another tourist trif.

OZdE,5 atated that she would like to very much and would think about 1t.

GOLUB also told her that it woald be good for her to stuy a your at the

future to have something Ilke this on her record.

vale to at lony but cant tate one probably not be good for as

6.

On 25 June GOLUB phoned AS again to infora her that ho had just received

some wore phonograph records from the Soviet Unlon and she might like to

bear them.

On 28 June he phoned he" again meraly to chat. At this time be

told her that bis wife was leaving for holidays in Moscow and that thare was

some wan in Moscow she loved botter than her husbend. This surprised anys oz

who told COLUs he ahouldn't Joke liko that. COLUB assured hor that ho was

not joking.

Ho ero currently li the process of Illing out a PAQ II, 30 a FUll CA can

Do granted ADj5, She la a very intalligent, consolentious, and a quick,

young Anarican atadent. She is well road and versed in Amarican pollties,

Literature, and culture and bas an Insatlable thirst in learning the same

about other countries. Her waln interest at this point 1s Finland and the

Soviet Union, and she apends sost of her apare tine in the Univernity

Library gathering material for har study projoot, Yanno-Soviet relations.

However, she in far from the book worm type.

She 18 outgoing, fairly

attractive, meeta people woll and has travalled wch around Finland alone

juat to see how the finna live and work.

She is Indepandent by nature,

outspoken, and sonerchat agrasalve in finding out things ade wants to know.

Sho realises full well the liplications behind her contact with COLUB, and

we do not foal that she vould ever allov herself to be put into the position

to have to say you or no to a seduatien attempt by GOLJB. Our Impression

In that she hopes sen Ilke her for her wind.

She enjoys seoing COLUß and

delighte In thoir serious poiltical discusaions.

COLUB appears to enjoy

them and har too. We will keep you posted on further contact.

The final resulta cl(4l/5' a maDSKIN trip are baing pouched In REFERENCS B.

Costille's lunch with GOLUB has berin reportod in Referenco A.

Wililan L. Costille

Diatribution:

2 - WE

2 - St

2

15/00

to+: +3-88-5199580

019818 9i8ta)

N809408

rabbetrat

Fast t

3

---

