# 104-10227-10007

## Page 1

104-10227-10007

RATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA MEADQUARTETS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENDERS

FIF TITLE NONGER POSENE:

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

13 SIGIST IIES

SE

ROOM:

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 532166/17/17

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO EOCLIENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

104-10227-10007

F•el 915

19 Aurast 1065

TRANSLITION

A. The thing is this -- berinnine fron Geucva, In Genera, etc. you

reported this "truth" to your chief, ctr.,

or you did not tell ilm

tho truth; you yourself nust have understood at that tine that son-

thing ins not goiny cactly right.

B. ((Smiles)) T1115

Is absolutoly not richt, you are absolutely not

right.

A. I an absolutely right. .

B. Absolutely not right.

A. Well, again - In this instance, you know, you know...

And not only I, but all of the person to havo talked tith you....

B. Absolutoly, absolutely no one...

A.

..Not everyone is richt, but nevertheless, you are trying to prove

the reverse ((i.c., that everyone is wrong)).

You know, botwoen us; the only thing about silch I have spoken with

you for the past tro rocks and mich you know tell -- you did not

malse one mistake -- is prison

calp jargon.

Botweon us, I have nover heard the word, bllisa (prostituto)".

B:

oh. yount people linow this word; ny brother knoss it.

A. (IG).

B. They even use this word in literature a just read one thing: tali

---

## Page 3

104-10227-10007

. is.

I havo-read then all.

You told me what a that you lnd rond the book, Retrovin. 38

Petrovka 381 Mo Biali2 Serpennt

л..

When did you read Petrovlia .32

B. In 1963:

1. Under what circunstances.

P. Even,

to my thinking... I do not renember:

What - were you interested In tile crimal Literature, or did goi

simply have nothing else to do

D. What - 'nothing":

That which appears In corlodienla....

A. Do you not know wien this book vag published:

B. •I do not know.

I only know that Yullan SElENOV was in contact sathi lis in 1062..

ile sent it to us and vas consulting with us; he was turning It over

to us in sections. (NG).

1. Then, you read It in sections.

But I want to know did you road it in parts before publication, r

after.

B. I do not remenber; I ilo not ronenber.

A. (XG) :

---

## Page 4

104-10227-10007

i Foil, 1 do not remember, ldio do not conceser. Tdo not cesenter.

A. mo lodi: was approved for probleation en: danuary lad, aaron.

coo pubilentlon l damage 1oca.

Manofore, you could not hase send lt tore at all

D. Then, ((i read)) want to flock, sint be tie.

A. Undor mint circumstancos did they niro it to

jOU

0. In the Firot Section of tho Soventh Dopartnent, by an caployee --

do not remember his inne now; ono minute, perhaps I will reneute: -.

who had contact witi this Yultan stillNor.

He ('SEm00)) 19 married to the daughter of tho poot, Sergcy

MIKHALKOV.

Ho. ((tho omployee)) repentedly naied no questions,

to help hin

through

tho untorialy su the KG Archlves.

Ho ((SELlO!)) consulted with the employee.

Beforo the book, a story mu published in the magarine, Yunost' --

what was it called. - lu order to got the crities reaction.

1. Nell, I know this mancing and this story: do not tall nbout tuls.

B. Ho ((SEMiO)) consulted with this operational enployce, und this.

employce -= (1G) - came around and shored it to the Chlef of the

Section; he save it, the untorials, to loo: at.

It simply was interosting for mo.

And then we helped this Yultan SEMENOV.

This Yulian

SHUENOV

at the beginning of 1903, or the end of 1965,

hunting; he, the cinen actor -- STOrYAROl, and a group killed tha

hunting cuidc.

This happened mile thay

were hunting.

It just happened that lie huntiny guld: ms in the my.

Crininnl chates were brought up.

Hell, an employee trported to torio and contacted the militia.

sir.

---

## Page 5

104-10227-10007

men, yer mal the mood tear 22, moder di ran puttleted

Do 1 do no romember.

l renomber cone he comaltoi, be cave (fle)) to chnptors...

л.

no man the can offloor responsible for this case.

Well, Yurly, Yurly, Yusty...

I will romember big mad tia mocht.

llo workod (1-200).

I havo lilo nano sonevicio; 1 vote it.

N. You sod Mere you... saery a part of your inutructtons ling led yor.

micro.

A.

Tine told you were.

It ig

not to important.

Do But thoro 15, la, 15 the oporatlonl coolojee.

A: Well, you continue to say that you are telling the truth.

But, it la nur conclusion that only an abnoral person can insist

that this is the truth.

Do not think that we are so stupid.

- No Inow gomowat more than your AGE chlots to sont you here.

• Ovor the past year, beinning witi Mi. liGuEY a le trtod to caplii:

to you say you have bean put in such a position, but you did not

1ls tun

to kilm.

He hoped that you would realiso this and rould toll the truth, tiat

you would re-extino

wilythtny wand had happered beginning fron t!

first day in Geneva.

You aro not stupid now, and to hoped that you tould dealtie thy you

were brought here.

iron your pact, thre mas no positios reggoase.

And aftco that, there was milto a leagthy Investluaiion durion ste

we tried to roslain to jou.all oi your uistrics..

64-174.70

---

## Page 6

104-10227-10007

Made note cie

you sino turned do we trot offer wack tire tan A petitill

to are god ond to do sortifar..

Car sar than or ta the last congle of were, sti

schinded you almose every ding luat this care la loadin. you tom

wood, and today i am

taline with you for to lant time.

You still anve a few hour, to talis da to begin to tell tae intr.

If jou have thu wisi, then sosethne st1lt un; bo done, for jou, bus

the thno lans passod men we could sare you - for Instance, to pla

against tho KGB, and so fortis.

You invo forced us to do couching completely difforent.

But, auguay, we do not mclude the possibtlity... No can rive cou

the chance, in some meanure, to plan a normal life for goursale...

to save you fion liGh persecutlon, taking lato account your

Enovlolge of to Sortet Unton, wtch no ono can tale muns from you.

to could still use you sonchor as n forner Solet clutcon.

Is you do not exhibit such i resire, it will lo my inst talk futtr

you)) .

As I told you, 100 days will turn tuto 8,000 -- and I mu 1n no. la

threatuning you; I am talking serlously with you a tits is the sud

( (In English)) That's nll.

We no longer neod you.

Tie will try to do just that.

If you have soothiny to say, please do so.

But pleaso do not ty to prove southlar or nato speeches to I do

not want to leni them at all.

Tat is the

only think you ean say.

D. ... Tunt I au not lying to you.

л.

We will end pirat there.

I do nos mant to lend miy more.

This alrcady has bored ne: it has bored all of us.

Bo liell, 18 I do not have anything to say;

181, 19 1, really no

---

## Page 7

104-10227-10007

all of the checks, of salet love

rainded got torotal tire y

valen me concidend noe mary, ince boch not and, for the it

mart, they alacady vire done tolord de pt ju here, bertming t

196:..

licer, ono can maj onl; that there do nothin: los no to crore, not::

for un to prove on to mitation.

Tue only pata for you to a coral llio le to toll the whole truti.

how and miere this began; wien you began to ror: in Sovlet

Intolligence, countorintclli; ence; how this all happened.

Thie will thee you a chines or a normal lifo. (86)

1'.

11 I do not have thts...

I rant to serind you that a dar lloon only once.

I cortalnly do not mont to persuade ton, and so lorth --

cre

0:1

small units in this wild.

Lifo has 1t8 on ordor.

It is necescary to love 11fe (%G).

If you have no desire, that to your decision - I have nothle: no:

to say; this is your own poruonal affair.

As you were told carlor, as a result of the operationa conducsod

no one will bo able to help you.

Considerinz those changes inich have taken place In tho Sovlet Unla:

theac also play some sort of role in this.

Neither the iGB, nor Soviet Intriligence or counterintellirenee, no:

the Sortet governnent are in a poeltion to do anythine.

Borause, since you live been here, the situation has taken a 9o

degree turn.

low, of course, you understand - as I have reninded you a mere

the trutts lies and shere it does not.

You yourself see this now, belaning with 196?, (NG) and you jours: i

are in a position to !now how all this happened, beginning with o

first Geneva nectiny.

And probably you see yom crrors, lut do not lave tie strengtit of :

SECRET

---

## Page 8

104-10227-10007

in monit them.

In connorton with lue fael that la the lout too seats gon anse na

dirpinged any doolie

to tall the truth and to load the noonal !:

salclo se promend, gon... no (lolll)) alll do this, and te mt!?

lIve you don holp.... (X6).

I an entirely at your diapcal; l toll you I an cotlroly at you

disposal, alsolutoly.

No can nocept you.

i. I am entiruly at your disposal.

I can only

say on tate ee te, nt preacht, you do not bellero n

at all, then there. can ho only one talny... my vor and thac will

move the contrary.

Л..

".:

neared.

He can mannge without it...

Your work a in the forn in witch you offer lt to us a ls not

R. But.

I have in mind that i will.

do cverything I am told.

...He nro opcratin! vory woll

B. Right.

...proof of this is in the fact that you are here, in such a situa!

that 19, 1f we were not vorting will

you would not be in such a

position.

Your last vordo force no to tell you this one thin -- that I do

not see any need tos continuing our conversations with you on any

subjoct; it makes no very sad to see that you are in such a positic.

and that you do not vant

to rile the proper decision and the proper

conclusion.

Bo I am tellini you tic trut!.

---

## Page 9

104-10227-10007

Tuni

can soprat. this

100 trice.

Tun bnd....

(Ixri; A and la spenl: at lac anme tino.))

Cond ot d/il Sesston, 13 August 1055))

SECRET

136.

---

