# 104-10048-10262

## Page 1

104-10048-10262

00/0 14-243

V7I447

* 0816062 MAY 74. STAFF

CITE

• PRIORITY DCD/WASHINGION

AITH: DCD/OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

I FIELD OFFICE

SUBJ: FRANK STURGIS

REF &

ITELECON, 9 MAY 1974, SAME

SUEJECT

AT 16S5. ON 7 MAY 1574 WE RECRIVED A TELEFONE CALL ON

THE LISTED LINE FROM FRANK STURGIS

WHO INDICATES THAT HE

WANTED TO MLET WITH US AS SOCH AS POSSISLE IN CRIER THAT KE

MIGHT CONVEY INFORMATION OF EXTREME INPORIANCE TO THE AGERCY

. HE MENTIONED AT THE OUTSET INAT HE HAD ARRANGED TO MEET WITH

|FIELD OFFICE AT A EARLIER DATE,

HAD FAILED

TO APPEAR AT THE AFICIATED TIME AND

L DID MOT CONSZYT ON THE BEDRIVEN

JESTING;

HOWEVER, WE IMXEDIATELY ANVISED STUNGIS THAT WE ARE NOT IN

A POSITION TO VEET BITN HISS

HE SUGGESTED THET IF HE

REGUIFED AGENCY CONTACT HE

SHEULD CO IT AT THE LASHINGTON

IN WASHINGTON ME

MIGHT CALL.

LADECATED TAST DENORE LHASKE SOOSE GT A SPECIFIE GAME.

STURGIS TREN SAID THAT ME DICHOT WAIT TO PLAY GAYES AND

THAI

HE WAS

PREPARED TO GIVE US HIS ISFORZATION QUES THE TELEPHONE.

F818351D.81774

---

## Page 2

13-009

PAGE 2

ICONFIDEATIAL

HE IPMECIAIELY SAID THAT IT CONCENSED NARCOTICS IN MEXICO AND THAT

A HUSBER OF VERY HIGH RANKING PEOPLE WERE INVCLVES.

KE TOLD HIM

THAT

IT WAS LUNECISSARY TO GO ANY FURIVES BECALCE THIS WAS A

PROELEM FOP THE DRUG ENFACE"ENT AGENCY, AND SUGGESTED THAT HE

CONTACT IHEM®

HE RESPONCED THAT HE RAS HAD CERTAIN PROELEMS

WITH DEA, EST HE INDICATED TEAT HE MIGHT CALL SECRGE DAVIS, FEI,

MIAMI, WHOM HE HAS KNOWN FOR SOME TIE®

WE AGREED THAT THIS MIGHT

EE AN

EXCELLENT IDEA.

STURGIS THEN THANKED US AND THE CCEVEPSATION

WAS TERMINATED. :

DURING

3.

STURGIS WAS VERY PERSCHAFLE, EUT FRANK, DANITE THIS ERLEF

CONVERSATION•

WE BELIEVE THAT HE

LADERSTANOS OUR POSITION, AND WE

DO NOT ANTICIPATE THAT HE WILL ATTENPI TO COSTACT US AGAIN.

4.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS NEYCRANDL HAS EEEN

PASSED LOCALLY TO

32 Infat ChE: 312651

---

