# 104-10120-10454

## Page 1

11041012010454)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Files

348201

5 Decerber 1963

Chief, Research Branch/02/SRS

PAINE, Ruth

nee:

HYDE

ake: Is. Michael PAINE

To fice @ Sylura

LudlowOttoke

#15 8201

1. Mr, Crogar, FBI, On 4 Decenber 1963 confired thet the Subject

Is the daughter of Willian Avery HYDE, SSD-157435. Creger was furnished

a copy of two 1957 investigutive reporte on 11111a EDE for lend purposes

only and was Inford that WIllion HYDE is under consideration for a

covert use by this Agency In Viet Man In 195T bat vas not uned. (This

Information had previously been obtained iron

of Lee Harvey Oswald and possibly lee Barey Osald for en undeterained

period of tine. The posolbllity that Hillian Avery HYDE was the fatber

of Ruth PATiE was previously brought to the attention of Mr. Papich

through Nr. O'Feel, CI/SIC. The Security Flle of Willlu HYDE contalas

e Copy of e 1956 FBI Investigative Report (SECURITY OF COVERKHENI EMPLOYERE)

on Sylvis Imlor BOlE, aka: Mrs. Jabn I. HOKE, Dee: Sylvie Ludlow HYDE, tho

15 the ElEter of MILK PANE. The file of WIllian HME also contains a 1956

03I repart on Sylvia HOKE.

3. In addition to the above, it vas previously krom that willlar

Avery HYDE and Vile Carol HYDE vere astociates 1n the Inte 1920's and

later of Talbot BIBLEFEIT, 129931, bo 18 currently employed by this

Agency In FDD. A certain amount of information concerning Willian HUE,

BrOl HYDE, and other associates of HYDE and BISTFElT during the Latte

920's us Mrnished by Talbot BITTFElT during Intervieus several yeer

ago. At that time the BIELEFElT Case ss under extensive Investigation.

Eruce L. 501ie

ELS: 212

---

