# 104-10220-10400

## Page 1

104-10220-10400

*Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Recores Collection Act of 1992

(44 USE 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

Rance

1960

?.;.

STATION OFLE

11!.

MEMORANDUM POR THE RECORD

SUBJECTS

Correrastion untreen

AMWAId anded

:27 Getober

1960

TION

13

Some

weeke: bạck wh110

neill assigned to Headquarters

from

AMWAIL FOr

meet 1 ne

In New

countere

with th

AKRAATIOn

that trie.

meot.ing

Instead

In Miam!

on

inglys

called AMdall on 27 botober an! set up a

TretIry

ati.tha

Congresa

Airport Inn.

26.

•It AHwalL sald that he would

be

in Europe

from apprexl-

mately

9 to 29 November and that he mould be besing

Victer

Raul HAYA de la Porre during this itripia He proposed a

nesting of Latin American non-Communlat'lertlet parcles

tos.

been présented to

Hea.f-

infiders s

quartere In MASä-1311;

3.

• On hla return

from turope

AMwAIL Intends to spend

about

thirty Jaya

overgeeing the actlv

itles of three

trie

PHD oommittees;: Intelligence and Informatlen, transportation,

ATiO

one

other.

Ia impattent with

the progregg of thase

committees

80!

nopes to du something

Aot1y1t109.7e

to accolorato thelr

sia did not ravpal

the

recontly arranged :109.

cooriination

cosween

ZAMKA and

AMdAIL-3

on land I aotivttlus.)

Regarding transportation,

AMMAiL Bald that le hal lined

US A

PT. boat

which he hopsa to equip for commando operations azalnet

Cuban coastal attes.

it wis

=...

AMAlL's atatements concerning the PRD and the MRi

rasy help to clarity recent reporte that

he nas been.on

the

vorge of deserting the former for the

latter.

About two weaks

e5T&V87 10 101. B60 F MAd Ted that tre MAP

AMMAIL does feel that the MRP 13 in

many ways more

representative of the Cuban fipulation than

trie

PRD, but he nerertheless turred down

tr.e

levitatlon

on the

grounds that he had been responsible

for bringing a

numter of

people into the PRD and trat he could not nin desert them.

00S4J046

---

## Page 2

104-10220-10400

= 2 .

85

This oxplanation of hlo pealtion vas a part or a

80

newhat drawn

out diaousolon of the purrent exlle polltionl

8, D-1 tuat 1 on..

MI8-УіОМО

, make good pense dad bear repeating hores

"ya!

Erlad to brograpousianity too eoon."

0A12

I. vas the sirot orthe anti-BATista

people to

leave cuba and to doolare agaell. In opposition

to the

I CABIRO govornment: When me rounded the ERD thoro

noro ofill only a'fow of

ua In this dategory.. Boch

AMHAWK and

AWBER were then and

atill are opon to

oritiolon

chat iches aro pollesolans and reprosontativas

period that de

Both

and

AMPALM-S Oar

De

clonged on the grounde

thật they

Inat

do noticeproson

the

BATISTA

and, I rao

Beneration that fousht

thea

fard otill renaln

"Neverthel

within 30 or 10 daye of the

ormation

off tbe

piD a number of thing happened.

MIRO Cardona

went

Into aoylva.

1a8 Cubang piloto

ergoted.

MIguel: An80l QUKVeD took anylum. Pellpo

203

and

Remon BARQUin quietly left the government.

Ul I CHIBAS

quitrand' shortly afterward arrives in

CASTRO

nuaber

or blahope bagan ito oritlolze the

ay

mment tron the pulpitr

mere to no question

' aina

but what the forestion of the PRo

Mao; in

880

part

rospongible for the timing of most of thee

dovelopmento.

It localso Intereoting that almost ali

of

these people have at one thee or another been

apron the beginaing I havaloupported the prinolplo

of expanding

the

Bradutive Domittao continuoualy so

that it oan absorb. the leadershto material that hao

been doning

2 proposed. Abel MBSIR& and

HIRO

Cardiona

for

the ,areouslya conittes, but the

othere soro

opposed." l have also triod to got' Ramon

BARQUIN,

Manuel' RAy and Raul, CHIaNs into the

Excoutiva

Committee u1thout sudoggo,

What thie moant was that

whon ne finally chose a coordinator he had to bo: one

of the live of

u8..

I

was not raally In favor of: the

no sade booduse of the partisan politionl

background: of the nou doerd eter

"What ve nood urgently to do not la to reson

with the MAp, and

to a

extone in the allane toro are tho naya

nanaidaa

---

## Page 3

104-10220-10400

• 3

of duing this.

One

Mould

be

conoeding tn the MRP

perliApa

three

Boato

on

tho Brocutivo Committee

willo poselbly giring one

to the AllanzA.

Another indi

would be for the

turoo

дгоира на

untto. under a

new

name and.

with sea:o

na-probebly Mino cardona --au.

the aupreme ecard

nator.

Bither.

way mOuld De

911

rights.

but: the need

urgent

the MRP. 1ạ

growing in

stature

evory day and lo are 100ing to

it."

6.

•The noxt pars of AndalLio disouasion had to do wich

coonomlo philorophy.

remirked

rather

frontöally

that when

PRD

for wed

for

1t

attnakad

RUBIO Padilla and

ng

del:"

Now

that

Sho

the

.the..same

the

charres

i been placed

1n

po

of

on-and .of

appearing

ed

•for

n: to

om 10: 898

which.

under:

TA:

has never

delineatad

economio pli

sophy

nuch earlier." There

Planning: Comala

1t

about

half of it

weaberd aro

troa

group which wishes. to

the, return of all roo

a polloy with

AIL

to their original

hao

been.

life de..

1n sympathleand.t

..,

146. 8.

T. Conderning allitary, planniagiAMAlL had this to says

1n

the

PRD arg

in

plana

the

unfortunate position

of not knowing

the

of

oither

tho CASTRO govern-

mont

от

the United

State

government.

Wa are sort of

'flying

on

BuTo.

instrumento,.

one

thing I an very

Unless

the Unitod

had'a number. of very:

effeo

tive conetrations

ra00

army and the.

A114

a,

we

muat be prepa

дотой: об

no

load ithan 5,000

to

sandi in an Invading

men tIf

WO

are to have.any

hope

of

BUGGE.

•I' know

that wa have sont fowor

than

500 men

the training

foroo by Itself

H111 not be cuffiolent to overthrow the CASINO sovernment."

8.

atill remaine optiolatio about the eventual outoome."

that even if nothing to done to speed the downfall or castrople

this will cone about within the next ten or twelve months.

oncern, therafare, lo that precident NIXON or President

downfall take plaço nuch sooner

than that.

As he puse 1t,

FiNiNgõY must not ba forded to have Cuba on the

agenda

When ho

MOtO HIt KHRUSCHSY sometime next apring.

• Mini

JMA SH :

---

