# 104-10113-10044

## Page 1

104-10113-10044

TR VEL ORDER

Name

Incten Fe Conein

Title

Rajor

0-2322769

Office or Branch

PIM/030

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Travel Regulations.

22.4111.

Salary

Number

#1 to 41249-51

Daj6 Octodas, 1951

Official Station

115-20

, subject to the following limitations:

Maximum Living and Quarters Allowance authorized in accordance with S. G. C. A. R.

Purpose:

Itinerary and Speciál Provisions:

AFTER TO A-221271

Amended to read as follouis Tendinating

approximately 30 Horanber 1957".

All other provisions of original order to remain

In affocto

43223

Date effective:

Terminating Approximately:

30 Novenber 1951

Mode of Travel:

= Common Carrier

[z Airplane preferred

Z Vessel

_Privately Owned Automobile

*Allowance for privately owned automobile as follows:

(a)

cents per mile, not to exceed cost by common carrier,

(b)

J Government Transportation

Airplane

Vessel

Motor Veteried A. True Crry.

Signed Copy Da File

la tentat in a i alad

Heviewes.

He fittis: sorry.

Amented 1. 1 Biad.

cents per mile, as being more advantageous to the Government.

The change of official station indicated is effected in the interest of the Government and not for your personal conveniente.

In connection with change of station, you are authorized to transport your immediate family, your household goods, personal

effects and automobile, subject to weight limits, restrictions and provisions as set forth in GAl No #11.

Travel to first post of duty abroad, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal ef-

fects and automobile, is authorized

Dependents to travel with employee.

Dependents to travel within one year of employee.

Availability Date i15 Moverder 195I

Advance of Funds: § proces ativance attra

FOEM

| NO.

1849

33-27

Signature:.

Title

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1050 - 000210

---

