# 104-10186-10133

## Page 1

104-10186-10133

INEORMATTON REPORT INFOR ATION RHOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

o me optil containa informalion allecting lbo Meltonal Deterio al the Unlted States Itusin 1Do meaning ol le toplomaro la

0BC Didi: Tr and T the tinnentaton de persisten of whieh la say manor to sa unauthentard penon le premisled be a

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT (InU) MANIF Addle Abdala

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CSCI-316/01311-64

16 September 1964

RETURN TO CIA

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Background Use Only

DATE OR

Do Not Reproduce

CSCI-3/779,827

31 January 1964

INFO..

1964

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. September 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEPINITTVE APPRAISAS OF CONTENT IS YENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964•

Headquarterg Comment

The following report is one of i series containing personality

Formation From the tond of to a

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

(Inu) MANIF Addis Abdala, also known as "El Moro" and

'El. Polaco," may not be a member of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) or the

Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State

Security - DSE), but he knows many people in the DGI. MANIF

works in the Ministry of Foreign Relations and source saw him there

In January 1964. He was previously in Algiers and the United

Arab Republic.

Source has known MANIF for seven or eight years

and considers him a supporter of the Castro regime.

2.

Source described MANIF as having been born hetween 1931

and 1934, being aix feet tall, between 170 and 180 pounds, having

long straight black hair, black eyes, a

right cheek, and of Syrian extraction. "burn or birthmark on his

Headquarters Comment

1.

Aside from the information which appears in the above

referenced report, the records of this Agency do not

contain any additional identifiablo information on MANIF.

4

3

2

SIATE

T DIA

REP

ABAT

CINCLANT

bodiested traf)

TINFORMATION

HIL SA NONLINE MADR

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

I NAVY

CINCSO #

TADT

Toch

TFBT Z

REPORT

IINIFORMATION REPORT

21

[TE

ALLE

-2/ TASIL

LX-1682

NO PROJECT (ANNUO/1;

-CSCI-316/01211-04

RID/AX

---

