# 104-10418-10253

## Page 1

1104-10418-10253

INDEX:

'YES

NO_

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID

RET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY

S:G. -

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

R

Y

SR/S

TO

: DIRECTOR

2

3

51

6

FROM

ACTION:

SRT

INFO

i clops, al;

61/102, CA/RA, WEL, VR.

SECRET 21I217Z

DIR

INFO

CITE

2622

REDWOOD

REF

A.

B.

DIR

infer on time

time topiaries

36121 and incur tonit tinütticin

5032

1N32053

TH AUL 64 IN 32639.

1 o

CLASTONBUPY PHONED SOVIET CONSUL KARASEV WITH PURPORTED

REQUEST FOR VISA ON BEMALF US BUSINESSMAN. KARASEV SAID HE COULD

ISSUE TRANSIT VISA VALID FOR 24 HOURS WITHIN FIVE MINUTES OF

APPLICATION FOR ANY STAY OVER 24 HOURS HE WOULD NEED ABOUT ONE

WEE, PROCESS VISA AND HAVE INTOURIST GET LODGINGS. IMPLIED SCARCITY

OF HOTEL SPACE WAS MAJOR FACTOR IN DELAY OF VISA ISSUANCE.

20

FINNISH TRAVEL AGENCY REP TOLD CLASIONBURY HE CAN MANAGE GET

VIET TOURIST VISA FOR HIS GUSTOMERS IN FIVE DAYS "WITH SOME

PUSHING ON HIS SIDE".

3. WE DID NOT DISCUSS AMBASSADORIAL INTERVENTION WITH KARASEV

BUT BELIEVE IT MIGHT HAVE SOME EFFECI SHOULD OUR AMBASSADOR DIRECTLY

Document Number a T

35

P.0i

JUN

for FOlA Review on

1976

SECRET

15, 33

REPRODUCTION

BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

foungrodiay dad

Copy No.

201-0289248

R

C

R

C

FORM

1-041389

PREVIOUS

RI COPY

RI COPY

135

---

## Page 2

13-00000

See Sanitized Eile -

Number

For sterile copy of this

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

30

docunent.

- SECRET

IN 32 639 PAGE 2

INTERCEDE WITH SOVIET AMBASSADOR.

HOWEVER LAST MAY VISA FOR PRIVATE

TRAVEL OF EMBASSY FIRST SECRETARY TOOK TWO WEEKS THOUGH OUR EMBASSY

IN MOSCOW WAS INTERVENING WITH SOVIET FOREIGN OFfICE.

SECRET

SECRET

---

