# 104-10130-10183

## Page 1

104-10130-10183 .-

10/291

A4:3) 0358

FRP:

SECRET

23

STAFF

ACTION: EUR8 (006)

INFO: FILE, VR, DOI/PA, DDO-4, CS/RF, DDA, C/PCS!

CCS-2, CI-4, COMMO-7, CWD-2, EPS/EG-2,

LSN/ID, ODPD-D,

DED 4, OGC-2, OLGA POS/LSN, SA/DO/O, SE=8,

(63/W)

EUROSO SIA, STAIFL

78 0391413

0391413

SECRET 071737Z MAR 78 STAFF

CITE

92099

Br

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL MHSPLASH. CKELEG SGCHART RTWINNER

BBC-ONE BROADCAST FIFTY-MINUTE PROGRAM ON KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION AT 2010 ON 6 MARCH. "THE GUARDIAN" FOR 6 MARCH

DESCRIBED PROGRAM AS FOLLOWS:

"THE KENNEDY COVER-UP: A REPORT ON SENSATIONAL NEW

EVIDENCE OF HIS DEATH. MICHAEL COCKERELL'S REPORT CLAIMS TO

COLLATE FOR THE FIRST TIME ALL THE NEW EVIDENCE THAT HAS EMERGED

OF LATE, MUCH OF IT IN THE WAKE OF WATERGATE, AND WHICH HAS

GIVEN NEW WEIGHT TO THE CONSPIRACY THEORY REJECTED BY THE

WARREN COMMISSION. EIGHTY PER CENT OF AMERICANS, APPARENTLY

DO NOT ACCEPT THE

COMMISSION'S FINDINGS; THE CHAIRMAN OF THE

COMMITTEE SET UP AFTER WATERGATE TO INVESTIGATE THE CIA AND

FBI'S WORK AT THE TIME OF THE ASSASSINATION RECKONS: 'ONE OF

-THE BIGGEST COVER-UPS IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY HAS OCCURRED. '

WAS THE KILLING OF THE PRESIDENT A SPIN OFF FROM A CIA/MAFIA PLOT

TO MURDER CASTRO, ASKS THE FILM, PRODUCING EVIDENCE OF A LINK

BETWEEN LEE HARVEY OSWALD, THE CIA, AND THE KGB, "

H0ST7

PROGRAM. INCLUDED INTERVIEWS WITH JAMES F. MOSTY,

LDENTIFIED AS FBI

AGENT DALLAS: WILLIAM GAUDET, DESCRIBED AS A

FMRMER CIA OPERATIVE: AND ANTONIO VECIANA, CHARACTERIZED AS A

CUBAN CIA OPERATIVE.

3.

ALTHOUGH PRESENTATION SOMEWHAT DISJOINTED, GENERAL

THEME IS THAT AGENCY DEEPLY INVOLVED IN ASSASSINATION AND COVER

PROGRAM PRESENTED IN PRESTIGIOUS "PANORAMA" SLOT WHICH

HAS WIDE AND LARGE AUDIENCE. WILL HAVE CONSIDERABLE IMPACT ON

VIEWERS.

FBIS CABLING TRANSCRIPT.

WILL ADVISE FILING NUMBER.

•FBIS ALSO POUCHING VIDEO TAPE OF PROGRAM ADDRESSED TO EUR/BC.

5. FILE: 200-120-150. EZ IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

: 549941

SECRET

:..90.0.

---

