# 104-10187-10160

## Page 1

104-10187-10160

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

CLASSIFISS MESSAGE

SECRET

-ist

TOTE

TO

• CURECTOR

FROM : TEGUCICALPA

AERONA BA 8 (NI COPY TUBED AT: 1970 3 AUG) LMS KA

LTO • DDP, C1/OPS, C1/1C 2, hE/St 8, VR.

LKM_

SEGRET C31535Z

•THEOLATE BLEN RIGO INTO PRIOSITY DIS LAVE CITE TEGU 5565

REFS: M.

SIS: 9157 1M 40645

R100 5542

144424

C. DiS 39392

136SEM41G:

Do ISSU 5552 / 8 2/0963 #

1. DEFACE: SUSU FORNARDED PLET RIDD IN REF C.

'2.

..IS ADDITION ANSUERS TO GUESTS TO PERA S RES D, FOLLOWIE

QUESTICES SHOULO HELP ESTABLISH BONA FINEST TIM SOURINETE ARE

USED TO IDENTIFY GIONISIO BEJARANS RAÑOS AND LUIS MANDEL ZULSO,

SEC ES OFGNNTLATIC AN FINACE OF COREUNIST PAITY CE HONDURAS 85C

A'SUER: "LOS GOROCS,". NHERE IS THE JEWELRY SHOP CE ZUMIGA LOCI

IN SAN PEOPE GULA? GIGNERE ON SE SIDE OF STREET MUD MEAS THE

"SÜCUIGN DEL SAICH DILANTIDN", AGNOSS THE STALET MRS! THE "SURE:

MERGIDS GITULLO0" DiAT IS TNE DETE ET. THIS JEVELRY STORS? MISH!

•! "HELOVERIA CHUCRO" PRIOR TO COT SOCILITARY COUP WHERE DAS THE C

SAN PEOND SULA

•:

SECRET

RIPACELETION SY ONNA MUN THE TSARO CARICE IS PROPUSTIO

...i::....

Carl.

---

## Page 2

104-10187-10160

CLASSITIEO MESS'.GE

SECRET

JULIO BEZAR SHER:

A MENDER dIO LENDER OF THE PRIS. 842 1S

RIGOBERTO PADILLA SUSH? MISTER: "LEAJER GE THE PON FORMERLY IN LA.

CEIBA BUT IN MIDING IN CAN PEDRO SULA, NEVER DEPORTES 3Y MONU

AUTHORITIES."

,¿HO IS "EL CURA"? MUSTER: JOSE ILDEFONSO ORELLAS

BUESO, FORTER HONO CEPUTY AND LEADER DE THE PRA.

3.

PRESUYE REF A AJOVE CORRECI ANO NOT ELES REFERENCE GIVE: ON

REF BAND C CABLES.

SEC

C/S CONMENT:

• RE COCAR VELASQUEZ.

SEORET

---

