# 104-10172-10041

## Page 1

104-10172-10041

FiChe:

RISI

ROLTING AND RECORD SHEET

AVIE:

abapro ol commens or indication el astics

rotors as some shout will be destroyed then the

document is Fled

COMMENIS

TO

400m

PEO

CATE

aCEd 180009019993}

ass alana

5.

€.

(crit FI

PR

10.

6555

12

13.

13 MAR 1970

K 10/EDI

17.

18.

19.

WH. TIT/Ca

14004

ENCLOSURE

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE HICROFILMEO

FOkh

4-58

6100

USE PRETIONS

EDITIONS

2280)

COPY

i..

at leape

Cabin

reclasay

to

EU: 201-25/853

=xC6-3/411,399

sif

D.31n1

:

201-251853

ronine inter -Caba!

FILE NI

UMBER

DOCUMENT CATE

DOCHiMENT MUMBER

3. Guy 1954

SECRET

HKH - 02130

(40)

.oes est....

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

FROM:

Habana

ILK.

REPORT MADE BY. NelsOn Le SATTOcK/P2o 745

REPOR! APPROVED BY: Woodrow C. 011ea

DATE OF REPORTE 21 AuGUSt 1559_

DISTRISUTION:

By copy 10:

5 - Headquartere s/ast

- Embassy (L'ecooale Counselor)

1 - Logal Attaché

2 - FIlos

SOURCE CRYPIONYM:

See Corments beloN

SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS:

SUBJECT& Cuban Econenio Criate

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET

REPORT NO: MiLO

NUNDER PAGES ?

NUMER ENCLOSURES: Mone

REFERENCES: None

Flold File No, 6-0-L20

SO NO.:

IG NU:

PRYPTON: O YEs No

SPERATIONA, COSMENE O5

08

Source Alberto, FERNANDS Rechavarria, Ebo chief of the Cuben Sugar Stabllisation

Board who has the job as selling Cuba's sugar?

A former active marbor of the 26 of

July Movement during the revolutien, he is now disillusloned, and reportadly 1a sot

going to last much longer in his job.

He is wealthy and his fazily have lost

through CASTRO's economie refore.

He appears to know a lit about the gurerment and

also sens to have an insight into CASTRO... He regards CASTRO as sone typo of a

UNIVAC machine, his mind autonatically photostating detalls which he ean and will une

in the ruture.

He says that GASTRO is ruthless, and that nothing can stop his in hia

determination

to do Bruething, 1.e,, agrarian refors, and that to vill sacrifice bia

friends, his fanily, his soney, and hia fortune to acuouplish his purposo.

Again Illustrating the presant aituation in Caba, the source sair tis: he cannot

• pablioly have contaots vith Anervan offlelals-ranising to lot the uritar use hia

telophone-and he sald that a record 1e kept of ali lis calls and that his movemente

aro periodically checked.

the advisor who warnel GASTRO lu paragraph one of the attached report vas the

As a possible reference to ihis report and particularly in flald coment mmber

tHO, 800 BATA-2526- TDS- 31400,513

The second source referred to in Field Comant 80. 2 vas AYPACK-1 ibo obtaimes

his laformation from the

.0.8

H13-2230

201-251853

198183 51-59 PES NOUS EDITORS MAY EI LIES

---

## Page 3

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

• CALLON DE SURCE

5. Carnet to justo

3. Former soon een do tate seed. petely true.

3A2S20T 14

Based on original documana

C-0-NF-1-DEH-T-IA-1

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT E Cuban Econodio Cristo

DATE OF REPORT

NO. OF PAGES

REFERENCES

KKH-2130

21 Auguat 1959

2

Hone

DATE OF

INFO.

July-August 1959

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. Cubie Fabana (20 Auprust 2959)

SOURCE EYALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

• NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCES

Cuban Coverment Offielal (F).

ApPraisal sE Content: 3

Io Contrary to the reports which are leaued by the Cuban Goverment,

the

financial status of the Cuban economy le rapidly deteriorating and

boconing a serious problem. During July 1959 an advisor to Prime

Ministar Fidel CASTRO Ruz, warned him to proceed more alowly with the

agrarian reform, because the Cuban treasury was running abort of funda.

It was pointed out that 57 aygar mille were barkrupt and had not paid

the plantation owners for the 1959 sugar crop. CASTEO was told that

1f the reckless confiscation of agricultural properties ecatimed, the

Cuban Governent would become obligated to asmme even more debts in

order to alleviate the hunger of farr vorkera 1

2.

Another drain on the econory is goverment subsidies. For exasple,

the danoo de Desarrollo Economico y Social (BANDES, Social and

Econonio Development Bank) coutrole about U. S. $400 a121103 In

properties and investaents such as the Compañia Cubans de Aviacion

(Cuban Airline Company). The companies have been caught in the

presont contraction of capital and cannot survive without roverment

subaldies. The subsidies paid by BAD'S anount to U. S. $8 alllion

a month, and this la only one exemple of the many payments which are

draining the Cuban treasury ?

Edeld Corments.

1. Pres tho reporte unth baro boon peootred is appears that there 1e

gruwing unemployment of farn workers. This ia the "dead season.

the period between sugar cene harvests--but it is reported that

most plantation owners and ranchers are fearful of contiscation of

their properties for the agrarian rsform program /and consequantly

are doing very little in the way of maintenance work. The latter

the agrieultural workers, Hoverer, In spito of this

warring the igrarlar reforn program has not been loved. In

fact, it seems to have been intensified.

C-ON-F-IT-E-H-I-I-A-L

DISTRISUTION

281-25123.

di... ide

---

## Page 4

In source toushe that nothing could atop else in hia doceraination

Lo, so proceed vita she astarlan rofora procras as last as possible. sinso

the blesos: obatacle to carrying out this progran 19 the lack of rarey.

the source sas ni the opinion that GAsTRo vould do anything to obtaín

the money and night even conflacate tunt accounts and moneye and Dego

clable irstrumenta hold in saloty deposit Sures. Carrying thle one

step further, he source thought such coifiscatory tactica could only.

be a temporary saving dovice and that eventually 1t would be necessary

for CAStià * obtain a large loan fros another country. Fe speculatod

that this voald mean either the United States or the Soviet Unfor, ag

feared that if 1t vore the lattery it hould rean the and of frlendly

solations vits the United Statos.

In respect to CASTRO'a possible

need for a loan, another, fairly rallable, source reported on 18 August

1959 that GISTR) was trying to obtain a 10, iuo, voo peso loan from doeat

bunke.

cp-151555

C-UN-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

it 264.10

0281-22-57553

144251053

---

