# 104-10133-10021

## Page 1

104-10133-10021

SECRET

RETURN'TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2 8 AUG 1975

NENORANNON FOR:

The Raview Staff

Deputy Director for Adnisistration

SUBJECT

Senata Select Conaittee Raquest

(Roso111/Maheu/Giancana Matter)

Reference is nado to a 22 August 1975 memorandus fron

tho loview Staff (75-2597), which forwards a request from tho

Sonaco Soloct Committse for cortain files and docusoats relat-

ing to the

Roselli/Maheu/Giancans natter.

ulth respect to ites nucoar ona of the reforenced

requesi, the portinent Office of security filos concoming

this nattor have boon assaubled and are boing uniatained within

the office or security.

These files will de nade available to

designated

Sonato Seloct Conaittee staff nenbers upon specific

request, Withln the tranevor of establisieu procedure for the

Saloct Connittea's review of Offica of Security files.

It should be

noted thai no porsonal or sott" files hire been

locaied withir tue Offico of Security concerning this nactor,

other

thad thosg rocently created in response to roquests fio

the Rockefellar Comission or the Sanate Select Connitree.

On 25 August 1975; the Office of Securiiy partially

reviewed tào files of the Inspector Goneral's offica with ra-

Sou to dos mate data detes to 1lo-ates period vilen are

any Offics of

not contained within Offica of Security Files. As a result of

this Isvion,

four such nonoranda were located. Copies ot these

four sozoranda are attached hereto as exhibits, and = briot

coscription of those

documents follows:

ishibir 1:

• April 196? memoraadur for

tua record captioned "The Actached Honorandun froa the

131 - subject:

Artaur Jazes Salletti

concoriny Colonel Sheftiold Eard S+ al

Lectiags with

Ar. Sau Papich of the Fedoral Bureau of Investigatio:

oil 28 pr 29 March 1962, and with another FBI represent-

srive on 7 Fobruary 1962.

05 51505

EZIMPÜET

CH SY 055344.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

Exhibit II: Federal Barezu of Investigation

menorandun, dated 25 Harch 1962,

and captioned "Arthur

Janos Ballotti, et al.

Unauthorized Publication or

Use of Corrunications. "

Exhibit III:

26 April 1962 nonorandus for the

then Director of Socurity fron Nr. Ladience R. Housto,

16 April 1962 and with Mr. Foley, also of the U. S.

Attorney Genoral's Office on 20 April 1962, Concerning

the Arthur Janes Ealletti, et al case.

J. Exaibit IV: 14 May 1962 menorandus for the

Mr. Willian Harvey for Colonel Edwards to arraage a

nesting viti Joba Roselli.

4.

The chronological siles of the formor Director of

Security, Colonel

Sheffield Edvards, ware reviewed for the years

1950 through 1954. Cited review of Colonel Edwards' chrono-

logical files disclosed only one docurent rolating to the Reselkil

Mahou/ Glancand matter.

This document is zerely a copy of a zeno-

randus attached hereto as lxhibit 1, the original of wilca was

located in the files of tla Inspeczor Senezzl.

5.

As stated, the pertinent Office of Security files rasard-

ing this matter have been assembled, and will be retained within

this offico yending thoir revier by tho Senate Select Coanitice

Stalf.

Edwat Gones

for focal Securio

Att

Distribution:

Orig 6

-

2

1

1

1

1

OS/PSI/SAG/|

Addresste w/3 atts

DDA W/0

att

D/Security w/o att

- OS Registry w/o att

- DD/PSI w/att

SAG w/att

Phjd (27 Aug 75)

03

(a))

SECRET

---

