# 104-10216-10031

## Page 1

104-10216-10031

DISPATCH

CLASSINICARION

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Deputy Chief, WH-SA

Chief, WE; Chief of Station,

NO INDEXING RECUTES

ONLY QUALIFIED DESe

CAM JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station,

AUCROFILI

SUBICT

TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD ANLASH - AMLASH/L

ACTION REQUIRED - REPERENCES

REFERENCE: DIR 65502

ACTION

: FYI

1. This dispatch is simply to record for the MLASH/1 file Station

notiun en certain aspects of the case.

No actien by Headquarters Is required.

2. Paul I. STOCKWOOD gave AMLASH/1 5000 franes on 17 February in

secordance with reference. AMLASH/d earlier had stressed to STOCKWOOD that he was

completely without funds following his return from Madrid, adding the thought that

he was completely "in our hands" and thus dependent upon us for help. The receipt

of the requested assistance seemed to encourage him personally.

3. The safebcuse meeting at which the money was pagsed was brief because

AMLASH/1 had an appointment for lunch at the PERUMEN mission with UNSNAFU/19.

There was time, however, for STOCKWOOD to go over each of the questions which

was broached in reference.. With the exception of Information regarding personnel

shifts resulting from the recent PBRUMEN chiefs of mission meeting in Madrid,

AMIASH/1 had nothing to offer in response to paragraph two of DIR 65502. His

material on personnel changes reached the Station, as he said 1t rould, via •

UNSNAPU/9 and was duly reported. Other Items which remained on Matthew H. ONTRICH's

debrief list and which drew responses from AMLASH/I have been incerporated in

subsequeut Station traffic on the points in question.

4. AMIASH/I noted that IDENTITY 1 of the PERUMEN establishment in Madrid

has received three months? "grace" with respect to his ordered return to the home-

land. AMIASH/1 said that IDENTITY 1 has been completely won over to the AMLASH

emuse. He noted that IDENTITY 1 has on at least one occasion in the past talied

with a representative of SUBARK In Madrid. (This point has been diseussed with

Chief of Station,

who is personally aware of the background of IDENTITY 1,

whose information reacned the Station via QUOIA).

AMLASH/1 also mentioned that APLASH/3 1s & very close friend of

IDENTITY/2. Their friendship plus IDENTITY 2's definite anti-regime attitude

makes IDENTITY 2 a likely collaborator with the AMLASH group although not

necessarily cith KUBARK. AMLASi/1 added that AMLASH/3 was going to the Dominican

Republic in February. He reported that AWHIP/I was to speak with "3111" about

this particular case.

IS COPY

001-252231

CONTINUED

MAR 0 9. 1965

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYABOL AND NUMISER

DATE

OFPA-78420

# March 1965

LASSINCATION

NECFISITI

HOS FILE NUMBER

BORET/RYBAT

201-252234

1602N0 29

212

---

## Page 2

14-00000.

CONTINUATION OF -

DISPATCH

LAIGIFICATION

SECRET /RYBAI. DESENSIT LEUPPA-TOAZO

• Regarding the security warning contained in paragraph 5, DIR 83150

MLASH/1 took notes from a summary which the Station had prepared.

He mde no

partioular comment regarding the information.

7. ALASH/I' said en 17 February that he would telephone STOCKWOOD

simply to say good-bye before his anticipated departure for Madrid en 19 February.

Se far as 18 knom here, he did not do so. He knew, of course, that he could

set any information of interest to un via UNIAPU/9.

The latter reported that

APIAsH/1 actully left for Madrid en 20 february by air.

• PAUL. F. STOCKWOOD

Attachment: Under Separate Cover

TORTITIES 1 & 2

Distributien: *2 - DC,

WE-BA w/ett

2 - 009,

w/att

3

- Chief, Mr w/att

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADINO AND

DECLASSIFICATION

53a

( 40)

USE PREVIOUS tOMOR

CLAISIPICATION

SECRET/RYSAT

PACE NO

ONTINUE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Separate Cover Attnahment to

OFF% -78420

DENTITY

(nu) GAZZARBIA, employee of Cuban Embassy, Madr 1a

DENTITY 2 Orlando BIANCO Varone, socarding to source, of Cube

1S5). Bera, Suitzerland. (lo solative of Albert

SECRET /RYBAT

ESEHSITILE

AS COP:

001-252231

L

---

