# 104-10176-10030

## Page 1

104-10176-10030

• D

SFCRET

= WHEN FILED 10J

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET /1501 00589 1501

This Routing and Haoerd abert aboutd H3I Do snored ders the alachod NETIAD docustL

FROM:

RIAN

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVIS FORWARDLE

i.r?

OFFICER'#

INITIALS

N.H

0'5 !

VERENT NUMBER HIDCA- 00589.

COCUMENT DATE

1o Qug 54

COMMENTS

MOTE: Il & copT or schmenis are resored trom the l

lochod document, sose de location ol the copy and/or arach

DO RerOR, 1l My BECORD COPY iN 1 Be reliond da

Bo Eser al the Desi call the Cantal Flo Secton dor per-

2056 4

Fift

9.

6 586

6Bepl

Copy Detrahed

Рап. Кі.

Сива

Пот. Вір.-К.0.

18.

13.

1/00

RIFI

500*9 610a

Nete

ju ips: 10

FILE TITLE

ONlAS FERRER,

ROLANDO.

FILE NUMBER

201

DECLOSURE

DATE PROCEESED

SECRET

= 1956

"NUEX

20 Qua5%

почет о.

grand no.

---

## Page 2

-

VIA:

1IB

ESPECOME AIR CO IT A POLD)

DISPATCH NO. CHICA-589

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, WHD

DATE -

FROM : Chief of Station,

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational

SPECINC- Guban - Dominican Relations: Rolando YASPERPDa

26 August 2956

-.."

KUSFERRER and his nerspaper Ileapo en Cribe

lo The Chief of Station Invites Headquarters' close scrutiry of the

newspaper Tienpo en Cuba.

The Impression Us has derived of Senator Zolando Masferrer fron

referenced reports is that there is a strong possibility that be 19 a "Trojan

Sorse" for the extrene left and probably the Committs, despite the fact that

his trouble raiding periodical (subsidised by the Caban Coverment) usy be

"a heavy user of USIS material".

3.

Where ard when vas opportunist Rolando Hasferrer willing to risk his

carer for an riesli? iccording to reference it iig as a Coumnist fighting

for the so-called "Loyalist" cause in Spain. Does it necessarily men ary

thing that Hasferrer nos "-rofesses anti-Comunisn with a venzeanca"? Is

Nasferrer & broad-ninded, levol-headst, and judicing hig? Certainly be

does not appear to be such tron the account of bim given in reference.

rouid apper to so anything but a wali-balanced,

cosservative, Republican (In

the technical and non-partisan sense of the word).

A. Masterrer appear- to COS to be a Jacobin, a desagog, a tyrant, and

na extreulst and probably & leftist extrenist who is sitempting to sway the

corre of BArIStA's policies.

It 1s of importanco to note that as of 13 july 1956 1t ras gyport ed

In reference that Hasferrer "eurrently is attempting to gain control of Caban

labor".

Were Senitor Hasterrer to Obtain such control, 0OS feels he nould be

a dafinite danger 1n Cuba and possibly in the Caribbean.

Wore COs convinced that Hasferrer is herely an opportunist, he would

not have bothered to write this dispatch.

COS 1s of the studied opinion that

Masferrer has adopted the anti-Coumnist. Iine solely for the purpose of staying

. on the battleground

100% 43 51-208

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

t20r-U260667.

---

## Page 3

SECRET

HUCX-589

26 lugust 1956

Page 2.

on the battleground unt11 it sulty his purposes to desert the anti-Commist

cause at the most critical monit possible. Until anti-Conniam becare

opular about 1950 and 1951, Sarator Masferrer, as Indicated by reference,

enjoyed reviling the United Staies, Its paople, and its policies.

7.

hat are Generalissimo TRUJILLO's attitudes toward Yasferrer, Batist

nd Cuba? Trujillo's thought processes lea him to the philosopey that i

hoped to enlist Batista in the "Concert of the Caribbean" and to bave him

aguelch the Dominican exiles and the Coumnists.

Il Trujillo did atreapt to

Wan over sablurrer, de vas prudy Mesou uy navieriti a i sira

anti- foraunie and possibly hored to use him as an Influence upon batista'g

polfeles. It is hard to believe that Generalissimo. Trujillo would be likely

to team up with a Carlos PRIO Socarras. Is there definite evidence that he

has in the past?

8.

Possibly Irujillo blundered in sis approach to lasferrer. Fe often

blunders because he is susceptible to flattery in regard to his grand schemes.

Could it be possible that Yasferrer initiated the Trujillo action through his

adopting thr anti-founist position? That position attrae: - Irujillo 11ke

a boe to honey. Trujillo, like Bolivar, lores the role of a defenier of America.

Despite his many veinesses, ie is oiten sincere in taxing sui pusicini.

Some persons call it megalonania, However, megaloania in 1u38lf 1s sot alaya

bsd.. It can be used to advantage by a United States seeking unity, peace,

and cooperation on its southern narches. Trujillo has sary faults, but he is

& partisan of order and he hates chaos.

Trujillo hates leftism because it

brings chaos and mies the isis of conscientious leaders, at times, impossible.

24 Augus: 1956

Distribation:

3 - Headguarters

SECRET

---

