# 104-10135-10047

## Page 1

104-10135-10047

OUtGOING

SIGHAL CENTER USE ONLT

€01

AGA

100

0

SSAGE

5-7

ace

INF O

(18S88.60900

SECRET

•INDICATON

STAFF

CONF D/OLd INFO:

CA+8-9188-67048

:172300Z

Five C/NE, DOO

0G e

ESPF

CITA

0

D

492305

INDEE

DISSES SY: 5

ME TZUADA TO

PER VE

fORED, DCI, DIDCI/

16

TOS: TEHERAN

ROUTINE PLARGYLE

FOR AMBASSADOR HELMS FREOM MAURY

REFE: A. DIR 477397

17-8

B.

De1979 (IN 113770)

722990 (IN 115711)

C.

I. AT SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE PARTY IS DECENBERS

I ASKED TOM KOROLOGOS, DEPUTY ASSISTANT TO PRESIDENT FOR LEGIS-

LATIVE AFFAIRS, IF HE COULD THROW LIGHT ON BAKER PROSLEM. HE SAID:

IN CONFIDENCE BAKER HAD DISCUSSED AGENCY/UATERGATE MATTER WITH

HIM AND MADE CLEAR THAT SAKER'S CENTRAL HANGUP IS THESIS ADVANCED

BY COPERLAND AND ST. GEORGE THAT AGENCY STAGED DATERGATE IN ORDER

TO ENTRAP PLUMBERS. KOROLOGOS INDICATED BAKER MAY HAVE BEEN

PARTICULARLY INFLUENCED BY COPELAND ALLEGATIONS.

Z. ON I3 DECEMBER, LYLE MILLER, WITH BAKER'S PERMISSION.

REVIELED 190 PAGE TRANSCRIPT OF MARTINEZ TESTIMONY BEFORE BAKER.

I: GENERAL, MARTINEZ' ACCOUNT OF SIGHIFICANT JEVELOPHENTS

C

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

17263

84 ддВЯ Мі 7

---

## Page 2

OUTGOING

ESSAGE

SIGNALCENTIRUSEONLE

ACE

800

0

0

1 100

* 2 A9 FE) 99

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

CATE-TIMEGAOUD

PUDES •

AO INDEE

INFO: FILE

DISSE: BY:

PER

492305

CONSISTENT WITH AGENCY TESTIMONYU AND RECORDS AVAILASLE TO BAKER.

MOREOVER, MARTINEZ SAID STURGIS DENIES ALLEGATIONS WHICH ST. GEORGE

ATTRIBUTES TO HIM. HOWEVER, MARTINEZ DID STATE TO BAKER THAT HE

CONSIDERED TRADECRAFT OF PLUMBERS UNSELIEVABLY FAULTY. FROM THEIS

BAKER AFPARENTLY INFERS THAT THIS FAULTY TRADECRAFT WAS DELIBERATE ON

PART OF AT LEAST ONE OF PARTICIPANTS UHO SOUGHT THEREBY TO LEAD OTHER

PARTICIPANTS INTO TRAP. MARTINE: FLATLY DENIED ST. GEORGE

ALLEGATION THAT HE WAS "ANYONE'S DOUBLE AGENT."

3. UNDERSTAND ANOTHER ADVOCATE OF THE "ENTRAPMENTO THEORY

ENOT NECESSARILY ENTRAPMENT BY CIA, BUT MERELY ENTRAPMENT BY A

MYSTERIOUS "THIRD FORCE"}, IS ED HENLEY, FORMER OGC STAFFER AND:

MORE RECENTLY SENIOR OFFICIAL WITH MOBIL OIL AND KNOUN TO BE ON

CLOSE TERMS WITH BAKER•

4. SEVERAL DAYS AGO IN RESPONSE TO A QUERY FROM TOM BRADEN WE

SENT BRADEN A COPY OF MEMO GIVEN SYMINGTON ON ? NOVENDER AND

QUOTED IN REF A, PARA 4. ON L3 DECEMBER WE RECEIVED FREOM BRADENS

LITHOUT COVERING COMMENT. A COPY OF "THE TOM ERADEN REFORT"

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

COEFDRATE CIENEED

REPRODUC..ON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUI:G OFFICE IS F

BITED

AUTERATICATINOOFRICER

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

---

## Page 3

AGE

OUTGOINL MESSAGE

SIGHAL GEFTERUSE ONLY

601

10€

TRE

0

FAGEA

OMF

0

609006110

SECRET

DATE TIMEEHOUS

CITE

I OUT A DORITAIN

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

$92505

D

0

ADen -- 01330834.

HO IODER

RETURN tO

PER

SO ENAS

#

CAFPARENTLY A NEUSLETTER--UNDERSTAND HE IS NO LONGER ASSOCIATED WITH

LOS ANGELES TIMES ALTHOUGH THEY SYNDICATE HIS MATERIALS OF LL DECEMSER

ENTITLED "CAN HE BLAME IT ON CIA?" FULL TEXT, WHICH HAS HOT YET

APPEARED IN ANY PUSLICATION WE KHOU OF; FOLLOUS:

"WASHINGTON--THE LAST TURN IN THE DEFENSE OF RICHARD

NIXON WILL BE TO BLAME THE WATERGATE ON THE CENTRAL INETELLIGENCE

AGENCY. SUCH IS THE VIEW OF FORMER CIA DIRECTOR RICHARD HELMS, AND

SUCH IS THE DIRECTION IN WHICH SEN. HOARD BAKER ER-TEMNS AND HIS

MINORITY STAFF ON THE ERVIN COMMITTEE ARE NOW PROCEEDING. IT IS .

NOT A VERY SALABLE THEORY, BUT IT'S ABOUT ALL THAT'S LEFT; AND IF IT ED

COULD BE MADE SALABLE: IT MIGHT EGET RICHARD NIXON OFF THE HOOK:

CONSIDER: IF CIA ACCOMPLISHED THE BREAK-IN, THE SUSSEQUENT WHITE

HOUSE COVERUP MIGHT BE EXCUSED ON THE GROUNDS THAT THE PRESIDENT HAD

TO PROTECT THIS SECRET INTELLIGENCE SERIVCE. AND IF THE COVERUP

COULD BE EXCUSED ON THAT GROUND, UNRELATED CRIMES SUCH AS ILLEGAL

CONTRIBUTIONS, FORGERIES AND ALLEGED EXTORTIONS MIGHT EE PARDONED

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

ARLEASING ORACER

ELADBANATION

COOAD-HATING OFES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIDITEO

ALITERATING ORDICA

E 2

IMPOET

CL BY:

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ÄCI

OUTGOING ESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTERUSE ONLY

1O!

ACE

10₫

0

• 4

CMF. D

# 06850180398

SECRET

+05 40 608 900

STAFF

COMF:

DATE-TINEGHOU

eITE

DISSERS BY:

INFO: FILE

0

NO PADER

RETURNTO PER

492305

AS MISTAKES OF JUDGMENT ARISING FRON EXCESSIVE POLITICAL ZEAL.

THUS, "SOME SINISTER FORCE, " GEN. ALEXANDER HAIG PUT IT TO JUDGE JOHN

J. SIRICA THE OTHER DAY, MIGHT EVENTUALLY BE USED TO EXPLAIN ALL.

THREE RECENT MAGAZINE ARTICLES--TLO PUELISHED IN THE NATIONALAZLO

REVIEU BY A FORMER CIA EMPLOYEE NAMED MILES COPELAND: THE OTHER,

PUBLISHED IN HARPERS BY ANDREW ST. GEORGE--SUGGEST THE PRESIDENT'S

LÄST STAND. SEN. BAKER HAS CALLED THE ATTENTION OF ALL THREE

ARTICLES TO HIS COLLEAGUES ON THE ERVIN COMMITTEE. COPELAND

ALLEGES THAT THE WATERGATE OPERATION WAS CIA'S RETALIATION AGAINST.

THE WHITE HOUSE FOR SETTING UP THE POLUMBERS AS A RIVAL APPARAT.

"MCCORD TOOK LIDDY INTO A TRAP," HE URITES, AND "AFTER ALL, THE

CIA SPECIALISTS IN OPERATIONS OF THE PLUMBERS' KIND HAD A LOT TO

GAIN BY PUTTING THE WHITE HOUSE CLOUNS OUT OF EBUSINESS. " ST. GEORGE

MAKES A SIMILAR ALLEGATION AND ADDS DETAIL WORTHY OF 00? AND A FLEMING

HOVEL: TAH, WELL," HE QUOTES HELMS AS TELLING THE YOUNG WATCH

OFFICER WHO TELEPHONED HIM TO REPORT THE EREAK-IN, "THEY FINALLY

DID IT...A PITY; THEY REALLY BLEW IT...IF THE WHITE HOUSE TRIES TO

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT..

— dos arna

COCRONATIE OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA: THE ISSUING OFFICE L COMICITED

cl nin

IMPDET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

OUTGOIC MESSAGE

16€

SIGNAL CENTERUSEONLY

TOO

PACH#

-ONF

0

0

• S

48590÷8

MAOIEGIDIEATQ

STAFF

CONF:

DATE-TINEEROUS

cred

D

DISSEL BY:

INFO: FILE

492505

nITLANTO PER

RING MET..- JUST TELL THEM YOU REPORTED MCCORD'S ARREST ALREADY.

SAID I WAS CITALS VERY CUNITALS SURPRISED."

SE:. SAKER HAS ALSO

ASKED HIS COLLEAGUES TO VIEW A ZA-PAGE MEMORA DUM PREPARED BY ONE

OF HIS INVESTIGATORS NAMED GEORGE MUREPHY. MURPHY'S FINDINGS.

SAKER HINTS, IMPLICATE THE CIA. DOES THE THEORY THAT THE CIA IS

AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WATERGATE MAKE SENSE? IS IT EA REASONASLE

PRESIDENTIAL DEFENSE? RICHARD HELMS HAS TESTIFIED AS FOLELOUS:

"I AM PREPARED TO SWEAR THAT NO SUCH CONVERSATION CUITH THE CIA WATCH

OFFICERI TOOK PLACE... THE GIUOTATIONS ATTRIGUTED TO ME-- -UERE NEVER

SAID BY ME. OF THIS I AM CERTAIN." FROM THE TIME HE FIRST LEARNED

OF THE LATERGATE BREAK-IN, HELMS HAS BEEN AFRAID THAT IT WOULD BE

BLAMED ON HIM. PUT YOURSELF FOR A MOMENT IN HIS SHOES. YOU ARE

A CAREER SERVANT. YOU JOINED THE OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICESCOSSE

DURING THE WAR AND YOU STAYED ON TO HELP A SERIES OF DIRECTORS BUILD

THE FIRST U.J. INTELLIGENCE SERVICE: PEFRESIDENT LYNDON ¿CHISON

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT.

REPRA ""."

€00P:

• OTHER TI

: ISSUING OFFIC: S PRON:2ITES

#H-+8+91C4817056

€ 2

CL. 3Y:

ISIPDET

---

## Page 6

AGE

OMF D

too 120090699

SECRET

STAFF

COP'F:

OUTGOING INESSAGE

SIGMAL CENTLOUT: WALT

10G

0:9

GODICATOR

DATE-MME CHOLO

• b

CITa

INFO: FILE

40 DE#

DISSEM BY:

7/22305

D

DO InDEE

BERLORNTO

PER

0 Pees

FÀS MADE YOU ITS DIRECTOR. YOU FEEL THE RESPONSIBILITY KEENLY.

HOU CONSIDER UHAT HAPPENS TO YOU IN THE SUBSEDQUENT ADMINISTRATION.

FIRST, AN OLD FRIEND OF THE PRESIDENT, PATRICK GRAY, IS APPOINTED

TO EE CHIEF OF YOUR MAJOR RIVAL AGENCY. ONE MONTH LATER, YOU ARE

TOLD BY H.R. HALDEMAN THAT THE PERESIDENT HAS AFPOINTED ANOTHER OLD

FRIEND, GEN. VERMON WALTERS, TO SE YOUR DEPUTY. ANOTHER MONTH

LATER, AND JUST AFTER THE EREAK-IN, YOU AND YOUR NEU DEPUTY ARE

SUNTONED TO THE WHITE HOUSE.. YOU LISTEN WHILE HALDEMAN TELLS •

YOUR DEPUTY

THAT "IT HAS BEEN DESIDED" THAT HE SHOULD GO TO GRAY.

AND ASK HIM NOT TO INVESTIGATE THE MONEY FOUND ON THE BURGLARS

EECAUSE IT MIGHT EXPOSE YOUR

OPEPATIONS. FOR THE NEXT FEW DAYS.

THE WHITE HOUSE CALLS TO DISCUSS THE BREAK-IN AND TO SUGGEST THAT.

YOU PAY MONEY TO THE FAMILIES OF THOSE ARRESTED. ELEVEN DAYS

AFTER THE BREAK-IN AND ON THE EVE OF YOUR DEPARTURE

FOR A LONG-

SCHEDULED TRIP, GRAY CALLS TO CANCEL AN AFPOINTMENT YOU HAD MADDE

LITH HIM. WITH THIS SEQUENCE OF EVENTS IN MINED, WHAT WOULD YOU

SUFFOSE? THAT PEOPLE AT THE WHITE HOUSE MIGHT BE TRYING TO BLAME

THE WATERGATE ON YOU? THAT'S WHAT HELMS SUPPOSED AND SUPPOSES STILL."

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

COOBIE

REPROL.ION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS

AUTAEMTIEATIAGCEFICEN

¡NIGITED

IMPDET

CL BY:

---

## Page 7

_EBHN

13

OUTGOING

SIGHAL CENTERUSEONLY

TOB

255/66

PALLA

sung

•0

ONF 0

CUOSS.00589187

SECRET

41550-8248156196 SDICATON

STAFF

CONF:

DIE E AC

ACE AGABE!

DISSEM BY: •

INFO: FILE

0

0

HO INDEX

RETURN TO

PER

178305

TO FILES

5. ON 14 DECEMBER BAKER MET WITH ROBERT BENNETT-OF MULLEN

COMPANY, HIS FATHER SENATOR WALLACE BENNETT AND GEORGE MURPHY TO

REVIEU AGENCY MEMOS COVERING OUR RELATIONSO WITH MULLEN COMPANY.

AFTER MEETING. WHICH LASTED TWO HOURS, BAKER EMERGED AND TOLD LYLE

MILLER THAT EVERYTHING BENNETT SAID WAS CONSISTENT WITH WHAT UE

HAD TOLD BAKER AND IT WAS BECOMING CLEARER THAT AGENCY NOT INVOLVED.

WATERGATE BUT SAKER RESERVES OPTION TO PURSUE MATTER FURTHER SINCE HE

•DOESN'T WANT TO GO TO HIS GRAVE WITHOUT HAVING GOTTEN TO THE BOTTOM

IDICHTING

OF IT. F

SETS HE STILL RECEIVING INFO APPARENTLY IMPLICATING

AGENCY, HE ASKED FRED THOMPSON, MINORITY COUNSEL OF ERVIN COMMITTEE.

IF HE SHOULD TELL MILLER "ABOUT THE MONEY," THOMPSON ADVISED HIM

NOT TO, REMARKING HE WAS NOT SURE OF HIS SOURCE. WE HAVE NO IDEA WHAT

THIS REFERGS TO.

b. MANY THANKS FOR REF-C WHICH HAS BEEN DISCUSSED WITH COLBY WHO

IS COTTIENTING THEREON TO YOU DIRECTLY.

7. WARMEST REGARDS AND SEASONS GREETINGS. EZIMPDET-N

DATE:

ORIo:

EXT:

17 DEC 73

J.M. MAURY

OLG

6121

Golet Tray

COOADMATIRG ORACERE

SINO ORPICAS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

AUTHENTICATING CHICA

E 2

CL BY:

---

