# 104-10186-10391

## Page 1

104-10186-10391

ISPATCR

Tri. Me

Chief of Fisc

Chlef

ot

Slation

21

düi.:

you red see bilgian

LAN INFUE INCH AIT

WIS INH

ChiCL Of Station, MUSAVE.

Спос, о в 15- 27.

L DOC. MICRO. SER.

EST Peres and for toport on the Cuban Istalligence corvicome LaMonad

15-7

1.

During

No recent trip to

the cos request

Johlowing itons fron lendquarters:

Traces on fnu ESTEVEZ Pero% (identifled as the

Cliban Consul Gencral,

Carcolonn):

loadquartors rcvoals

that this is lanucl ESTEVEZ Porez (201-333002) fornorly

Mirst secretary at the Cuban Embassy in' Ladrid Iron 1062

to 1963:

lic is n174 on tho Cuban latchlist.

Othor:

Information arailable at Headquarters follows.

DP03: 10 November 1922g Cuba

WIFE: Slia HERNANDEZ LeOn

rasspurt #'s:

Ieportod as D/G0/515 and D/62/386

Education: Poorly educated and uncultured

Background: Reported to be an activo membor of

the Cuban Concunist Party.

Hes worked as a movio

extra and apparently belonged to the Cuban Artists

Association.

activities from 1900 to 1903 aro

summarired

as follous:

(1).

1960.- Reported to ho goinis to Mexico on a

propaganin sission.

August 1060 was reported to be

Ist sccretary at tho. Cuban Embassy, Propue.

During

this sane tour of duty he served ns a diplomatic courier

betreon Pragua and Cologno and as a special courior

for Cubar -issions in lostorn Europo.

Ile has boen

reported to be the "strong san" at the Cuban Erlassy

rathor tha: the Ambassadore

1963 - First Secretary, Cuban Embassy, Madrid.

Responsible for political and propaganda matters and

Communist. Party contacts, for caiting the Enbassy

nesspaper Boletin, and apparently was also responsible

Travollod as Diplonat in July 1902

fron france to Spain (IN 33884, JUly 1902).

CROSS REFERENCE 10

DISPATEN SYAIBOL AND NUMBER

/ DATE I-

i. e

8. =801-303002-

HES TILE NURTLE

SECRET

19 - 6 - 102/3

110151

- 21 June 1965 5610

1

1

ick

RID

201-333002

H1L/C/ESEC

WE/5/S

Wh/Registry

IMI, C/FI

Mi Co

12. 5

-MADIS

22

6/8R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

12).

kin lade a trip to inssels

and iris,

leaving incid on 22 karel aid reirain: on the

Til olirac purpose of Li KiD

issurod the

intac: or coul at the Cuban Corsiate 1i bricrona,

sirectino d lucumber 190r.

Tribitica

to Ci:?a

man tien deturned to carin. dis 1S:06, ipril Juda):

5195, lebruary 196÷)

ESTEVia's reported dutios as soccial courier

and control

of the core roon indicates unployment ty the

Intelligence sortico according

roccived ira dudl.

It Is

to inter top was has

forward ant local traces iiich add

the forogoing.)

2..

information

1N0aV6

Please query Amiuol on EstalE and the above

and foraru to addressees.

_taywinplay.en

15-27

Distilbution:

- ces.

Attichaent::

is sintei

5/BR

---

