# 104-10181-10198

## Page 1

104-10181-10198

os. P. MAOGIO

UNIT

EXT - 61,71

1736

DATE 10 SEPTEMBER: 1952

TO SAS BELON

FiON: D0000& CRITRAL INTELLI

CONF:

TFW 10

DDP, C1, .CI/OPS, S/C?

TO

OPIN

TROLRAY BUREAT

ST

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

261-312966

OUTING

s..nirga.i.

02

Il / Str vs

12

01552

PETE CEN

ROUTINE

Nu 75022

CITE DiR

TE SECURES:

INTHA CRNCE AGRICY

LILTON

VAST, SECURITY DIVISION

PAINT & TUS AT TORCE, ANTATION OST, INSPECTOR ODIRAL

SUB/ROTE POSTALS DOTHAT SITICS AT TARANA, CUBA BY ALATA 66 ONCANIZATION

•L. RETIRENCE IS MADE TO THIS AGINCI'S TELETYPE MESSOR; OUT TL6Ok, DATED

9 SEPTEMBER 1962, SUBBET AS ABOVE.

2. THE SAME SOURCE OR THR INCIATION CONTAINED IN THE ABOVE REFERENCED

TELETYPE REPORTED ON 10 SEPTIBER THAT THE ALPHA 66 STRIKE AT HABANA WAS EXPECTED

AT 0200 HOURS: E.S.F. ON 10 SEPTICHER BUT IN DELATED FOR ANY REASON IT WOULD BE

MADE AT 0200 HOURS ON 11 SEPTEMBiR.

3O SAME SOURCE PARACRAFA 2 ABOVE REPORTS THAT ANTONIO VECIANA BLANCHE POSTPONED

HIS DEPARTURS FRON ATANI, FLORIDA, FOR POSITO RICO UNCIL II SEPPINER.

L. ACCORDINO TO SOURCE, TIE BOAT CRIV IS COMPOSTO CE PIVE MEN AND TRE ARMANENT

INCLUDES ONE RIFLE -57 (ANTI-TARI TIPS). THE BOAT IS HIDINE AMOND THE KEIS NEAR

CUBA AND RAS NO RADIO. YECIANAYS ONLY SOURCE OF NEWS WILL, BE ANY CUBAN RADIO

ANNOUNCEMENT. VECIANA HAS HAD NO SUREP DURTRO THIS PAST L8 HOURS DUE TO HIS

LISTENINO FOR NEWS AND MAKING. CONTAGES IN PREPARATION FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS.

50 AS ADDITIONAL INTORMATICN CONCERNING THR ACTIVITIES OF THE ALPHA 66

RELEASING OFFICER

::309 'n' REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

ONG

UNT

EXT

DATE

TO ..

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO 1

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

SECRET

#-*#

ROUTING

14; o

ur mind _

Sizedluit

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 75022

• TO

'INFO:

CITE DIA

TO ADDARSSSES. THIS AGNCY WILI, APPRECIATE RECEIPT CE ANY INPORMATION DEVELOPED ST

RES ON THE ABOVE SUBJECT

B. IS ABOVE ITODUTION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THE INMIGRATION AND

NATURALIZATION SERVICE, TO THE BURRAU OF CUSTOMS, AND TO THE BUREAU OF INTERNATIONAL.

PROGRAKS OF THE DEPARTIST OF COMMIRCE.

END CE MESSAGE

INTO BASED ON: WAVE 8420 (IN 19771) 10 SEPT 62

SOURCE: AMSKTN-1

Lint Q. 242...

By Direction Of Jane Rosan

COOBDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

Aacte aadficates

1539

"E: REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

1 HILLY CATARIS

ENTICATOM

OFFICER

Copy Ha.

---

