# 104-10074-10155

## Page 1

104-10074-10155

t: Ruth Ellif

The ¿ollo ing 053 rosards ire : tri ched:

76

It contains inforation on!

Joseph Raymond Merola

---

## Page 2

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEAGE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

WH76

Chet

CON BNGIAS NEATRE O VI

Patr

no, mentrenten of viete tor.

ves apt Raycond MAROSA

Loid Rech Say Kond

Fur camoral nonths I heve been contacted on cecasiy

sy etern berola, notorio suggier, guruner and gerara

us empressed interest in offerine lis usaistrase la cunnec. on w

baham simation. Because of his zactground I hove clays evaded

newer, an6 Feb 6l te called saying ba had sore information con

sanilen Senator, a elose Erland aud conftlante of "Chu" Guevara,

salt me should lom aboati

2. I cotacted the MBI tO chect on Kerola's background and wi

altaire; interast in his ubility to smuggle

tony comtraband. As a consagania I visiled lorola at his palatial i..

Werla Informed an th.:he ie currently "it liberty" on two counta

aj # tuono, probation in correstlon witi: ius comictien on a charge of

Cincati "iranda, to he US in

clandeatine fashion followlug the Carro""'"", and by an appeal being

ars fror. e National Guard

Ite rpm in arrected to drag on

whe querled about the Brazillor Senetri, Vol?: 12 tat Le hae not

ii neseined detalls, but

nio 1n the Istin

merican contanacri risfreza.

"" the tantor wis ir erested in

-veloping a frug Thereiy

ind of ve.okay voul. be emuggled inio

ia1l, Re sale that the Secator had aoited Cula &lowing Cabrio's victory

id ned bees the special quust of "Chel Guevars.

no other decaila were made

ailable at the ti as the intacrion of Merola,

ini dor trole contacting us

in to nocentsia it me rould io cy ne vira ch dierai coutt to rescind che

i-mile travel pactrlotion currenchy loperso on ilm so chat Mecola could go tr

2zil to work out detalls of the dacti.

1406-178.

I inforned him chat thoce ;

vis bo no poseibility de us not e o? icristance la the matter.

1.1-21111

09649

---

## Page 3

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

Office Memoranism

ATTN ENS SUPROSE

UNITED STATES GOVER

DATE:. 8 Fe

:00

temorandum; of vtec

Coa

Joseph, Raymond MEROIA.

2018 North Bay Road

Mtant Beach, Florida,

For Oyeral monthe I have been contacted on occas

by doseph. Morola, notor toug emigsler, gunrunner and genera;

as expressed interest in offering his assistance in conne

Because of his background I have always

However, on 6 Feb 61 he called saying he had some intore

razi lan senatore close friend and confidante of "ch

felt we should know about.

2. I contacted the FBI to check on Merola's background

, he undoubtedly could speak

other contraband. As & consequence, I visited Merola at hie palati

Miant Beach.

3: Merola Informed me that he la currently "at liberty" on two cor

1) A two year probation in connection with his conviction on a charge o

irmory.. Merola was given five years but his appeal is expected to drag on

• When queried about the Brazilian Senator, Merola said that he has no

I received detaile, but that Sam Kay, one of his associates in the Leti

id had been the special guest of "Che" Guevara. No other detaile were made

railable at the time of the interview of Merola.

that the principal reason for Merola contacting

3 to ascertain 1f we would intervene with the Federal Court to rescind the

nile travel restriction currently imposed on him so that Merola could go to

azil to work out detaile of the whiskey anggling.

I informed him that there

uld be no poosibility of ue being of assistance in the matter.

finc

WH/Y/FI

1S.2/2

04649

---

## Page 4

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Office Memorandaim • ONED STATES COYER)

support

ouch chiefs MiamkOffice

BBC Memorandum of tolt tos

DATE: 8 Feby

100 At

(min

мовер, Raymond MEROLA

2018 North Bay, Road

Man! beach, MorIde

For neveral months T have been contacted on occasion by tel

by Joseps, Merola.

potos ous russlero gunrunner and general no-goor

has

expressed interest, moffering his assistance in connection wi

Cuban attuatIon.

because of his background I have always evaded

Howeyes on 6 Feb 61 he calted paying he had some information co

Brazil tan Senatos, e clore Erlend and confidente of "Che" Gueva:

felerwe should know about

2. 1 contacted the FBI to check on Merola's background an

hat while he baara long record, he undoubtedly could speak auti

concerning Internet tonalvaffaires Interest in his ability to smu

other contraband As a consequence, L vialted Merola at his pala

Miant Beach ar

13. Mero la, Informed mel that he le currently, "at liberty" on th

4) A two year Probation In connection with its conviction on a char

bringing the son-in-lat of Fulgenclo Batista, Ceneral Miranda, to ti

• clandestine Cashion following the Castro victory, and b) an appeal

aken against conviction Involving a theft of guns frow a National

Imory Merole vee siven five years but his appeal 1s expected to

ndefinttely. 730

4. When querted about the Braziltan Senator, Merola said that he h

et recelved detailes but that Sam Kay, one of his associates in the Lati

erican contraband business, told him that the Senator was interested 1

eveloping a profect whereby large quantities of whiskey would be smuggl

razil. He said that the Senator had visited Cuba following Castro's vict

nd had been the special guest of "Che" Guevara.

No other details were mar

railable at the time of the Interview of Merola,

5. It lo my opinion that the principal reason for Merola contacting us

s to ascertain if we would intervene with the Federal Court to rescind the

-nile travel restriction currently imposed on him so that Merola could go to

azil to work out details of the whikey smuggling.

I informed him that there

uld be no possibility of us being of assistance in the matter.

quee

WHI4/FI

09649

---

## Page 5

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Ofice MenorandIne • UNITED STATES GOVY

top, contes Berteon

PAT: 8 Fel

00-AG

(min

MENT

196}

179210

ot Viete Co:

Joseph Raymond, MEROLA

2018 North Bay Road

Miamd Beach, Flortde

For several months, I bave been contacted on oc

by toneph Meralia, notordous emister, gunrunner and ge

es erensed interest in offering his asslatance in e:

Caban situation,. Because of his background I have alwy

However, on 6 Feb 61 he called saying he had some inform

Brazflian Senator, a close friend and confidante of "Che

felt we should know about.

I contacted the 'FBI to check on Merola's backgrou

hat while he has'a long record,

anceeing intera tonal ricotte; laterest in his ability

other contraband

As a consequence, I visited Merola at his

3. Menla informed me that he is currently "at liberty"

a) A two year probation in connection with his conviction on

hinging the son-in-law of Fulgençio Batista, General Mirandr

clandestine fashion following the Castro viotory, and b) &

aken against a conviction involving a theft of guns frow a

mey Perole was given five years but his appeal is expecte

ndefinitely.

then quer led about the Brazilian Senator, Merola said

Te teet on that b a an tay out ch be to at in

derelopius a profect whereby large quantities of whiskey would

Frail. He sald that the Senator had visited Cuba following Cas

aid had been the special guest of "Che" Guevara.

No other detail

anilable at the time of the intervlew of Merola.

S. To is my opinion that the principal reason for Merola cont

me, to ascertain 1E we would intervene with the Federal Couct to rel

25 Te travel restriction currently imposed on him so that Merola ci

Brazil to work out details of the whiskey smggling.

I Informod him d

mosle be no possibility of us being of assiotance in the matter.

WHl4/ts

188.21.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Ofice Monoranda • UNITED STATES GOBRNMENT

At ten Cases Beteton

3 February 1961

richtes, tem office

00-A/S - 3179213

(mimi - 1419)

merengun of Viest to.

Joseph Raymond MEROLA

2918 North Bay, Road

Want, Beach, Fort deA

even cho 1 bave been contacted on occasion by tel

ed interest to offering bie asslotance in connectior

Chen Cleotton, Becauso Of big background I have always evad

he every on 6 Feb 61 be called saying he had some information

frantian Senetors a close friend and confidante of "Che" Gue

felt ve Should know about,

2.P'T contacted the FBI to check on Merola's background

that bfle, he has a long record, he undoubtedly could speak at

conceming international affaires interest in his ability to amu

other contrahand as a consequence, I visited Mexola at his palatia

Wiant Beach.

3. Mesola Informed me that be is currently "at liberty" on two:

a) A to year probation in connection with his conviction on a charg

bringing the son-ta-law of Pulgencio, Batiste, General Miranda, to th

a clandestine fashion following the Castro victory, and b) an appeal i

taken against a comiction involving a theft of guns from a National (

Armory. Merola was given five years but his appeal is expected to d

Indefinitely.

4. When querted about the Brazilian Senator, Merola said t

yet received details, but that Sam Kay, one of his associates in

American contraband business, told him

that the Senator was intr

developing a project whereby large quantities of whiskey would

Brazil. He said that the Senator had visited Cuba following

and had been the special guest of "Che" Guevara.

No other de

mailable at the time of the intervlew of Merola.

5.

mas to ascertain 1f we would Intervene with the Federal Cou

25 mle travel restriction currently imposed on him so that

Brazil to work out details of the whiskey snuggling.

would be no possibility of us. being of assistance in the m

1413028 12009023

---

## Page 7

14-00000

8 Feb 61

Pege 2

that he had been

actively engaged in gunrunning in

behalf af Fidel Castro

the revolt against Batiata,

He stated chat

fallowing Castro's pletory he had

gore to Havana, and had been received warmly

by Fidel Castro and Camilo Cienfuegos.

He furnished some detaila concerning

these contacts, as well as

contact with Colonel "Johnnie" Abbea, head of

the Dominican secret police also a contact of his, which are being

7. Nerola also indicated that he is very well acquainted with Antonio

de Varana, head of the FRD, and felt that he would be able to provide definite

assistance to the Frente should he be called upon.

He has a 63-foot boat

available which he would not be adverse to "lending" to his frienda.

He also mentioned that he realizes that we are not in a position

to be "persuasive" with Castro agents in Miami, or with firms

shipments to Cuba via the British West Indies, Mexico or Canada.

expressed the opinion that he might be able to be of considerable assistance

in

"discussions" with individuals or corporations re their desisting from

lending aid to Gastro.

9. We expressed appreciation

for his offer of assistance but

that it was very unlikely that we would request any help; however,

be glad to hear details of any Latin American intrigue which comes

attention, and which could be of any significance.

10. No furthe: contact is contemplated, but for the record the followin

is subnitted:

•Pull Name:

Joseph Raymond Merola

DDB:

9: October 1925

FOB: Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania

He served in the US Marine Corps from 1941 to 1945, Serial 329626

JUSTIN TI

JFG/and

---

