# 104-10147-10327

## Page 1

104-10147-10327

• INTERNAL USE ONLY

J23..

If -0060

Addendum to Journal - Office of Legislative Counse.

Page 5 Oswald

Monday - 19 September 1977

19. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Received a call from

Charlie Shaffer, IPS, who was seeking a response to be made from

Ms. Trudy Peterson, National Archives (523-3132), who is inquiring

about a Memorandum of Understanding executed between the CIA and

the House Select Committee on Assassinations, dated 19 August 1977.

I indicated that Doug Cummins would respond to this telephone call.

20. (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON Talked with

Walter Sheridan and James Michie, staff of the Senate Human Resources

Subcommittee on Health and Scientific Research, several times during

the day and discussed matters in relation to the 21 September 1977

open hearing.

21. (Internal Use Only - DIC) LIAISON Talked with

Col. Stephen Harrick, DOD, and Robert Andrews, Special Assistant

to the General Counsel, DOD, several times during the day concerning

material they requested relative to the open hearing concerning Projects

OFTEN and CHICKWIT which had Defense Department involvement.

22. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Talked with Anne Karalekas,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, regarding the status

of the Select Committee request on Elias Demetracopoulos and its

status. I informed her of where the matter stood.

23. (Unclassified - DIC) LIAISON Professor G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on

Assassinations, called to request that arrangements be made for

certain staffers of the Select Committee meet with someone from the

Agency concerning name traces. He also requested that they be .

permitted to review the Marina Oswald file. A meeting was set up

for Tuesday, 20 September, with Russ Holmes, DDO. :

MATERNAL GOR CHLY

CC:

0/DDCI

Mr.

Ex. Sec.

DDI DDA DDS&T

Mr. Lapham Mr. Hetu

SA/DO/0 IC Staff

Compt NIO

Acting Legislative Counsel

21704

---

