# 104-10069-10432

## Page 1

104-10069-10432

345)3, 901,607

Ofice Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNNENT

TO

•1 Ontes, Centnot Divinion

DATE I MAY 196%,

MOM : Chief, Her fork Off£ce

ME CArTON DULLA MAUs Stucky Oparational Opportunity

• Car2oa Marques SterlinG, vho 1iven at 355 Best Tand Strast

p 210, Now York, New York, Indicated to the loc! FEl that 1

And on to til to an on a the gone and te arranged to

2. Marquez Sterling' describes himsel? as a member of a Cuban

Santly with a distingulabed record ci public service (hin Inther vas

Ambanandor to the US during the Frecklin D. Ivosevelt term and he,

himself, opposed Entista's nominee for president in 1958. He sata he

1a now general delegate (top

offiedal) of a Cuban extie organization

known as the Free Cuba Patratic Hovemen: (Morintento Patriotico Cuba

Libre,

Ints novement consistu c& 5i clubs ecattered throughout thi

Us with an estimated five thournd adhere:ts.

3. Marquer Sterling wanted to talk to the Agency because of th

Following circumstances

by Marquez Sterling an a former wenber of the Suprene Court

In Cube and now very close to, 1f not an actual recipient

of support from, the Agency.

Almber muggested to quitonne

that the Agency might very vell be interested in the 10o

Juba Patriotic Morement 11 1t vare nade conscious 01 1t

mIze and influence within the exile conmalty. Quiñone

brought this to Marquer Sterling'e ettention and elso mad

n effort to communieute with nomeone 1n the Agency throug

one Miguel Ca pa, an official de the Pan American Ualon.,

At the sane time, Marques Sterling received & phone call

tron Manuel Artime Who soughit his support and backing for

lenderhip in e military cupacity, augeosting possibly thit

Marquez Sterling might de Interested In the civilIan lander

#hip of a unified extle movement.

#, Agninot thie background Marquer Sterling believes he should

speck with romeone in the Agency sufficiently highly placed to unice

• commitment 11 the progrem he plane to"lay out 10 o° Interest.

66: H/SA

07223

"Die joy

niH- 1805

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2-

5. Briefly, this 18 what be has:

8, 61 cluba (In mimost every stato) of which he la the

national head.

an underground in Cuba (but he refuses to estimate 1ts

strength.)

communtentions channels to and from Cube, mostly vi

lexico, and also, in energency, thie the Uruguayer

Liplountie pouch to his sister who in st11 in Cuba.

6. Na1l 1e received and seat, on the Cuban end, by

who covers faran and ite nearby province,

18 acid to be a person with good credentiale in the

Castro regine and a specialist In food production. In Cuba

he is regarded as a staunch supporter of the goverment.

who covers Oriente and senrby provinces.

He 1s a former owner

and 18 bolleved, within Cubs, to be a staunct

friend of Castro.

Mail comes out via Mexico through one Conlo Chirino, an

official os the CAS, Apartado Postal 1458, Nasdco, DE.

Anil 1u

routed to suba through Mexico but Marquez Sterling did not offer to

Identity the lIve drop: except to say 1t 1a s A1Sferent person.

Frequency of mail. exchange 18 about fIfteen days.

8. It could be derived from the convermation with Margues Sterling

that he would like Ager iy support in the form of money and arms, to

9. Marquez Sterling has sent a nemorandun on the activities of lie

group to thonna Mann Tunon he claina to Inor). A copy wili be mode

available to us soon.

val able ence rita. val ale cool da to ala cuter of his recent

it, We annured Marques Sterling that we vould inichfully report hi

cause to Washington and gave hin a line of comniontion to un.

soened highly pleased with the interview.

1NH.1805

---

