# 104-10214-10034

## Page 1

104-10214-100341

81627-323 017

TABLE OF COMEIES

The assassination

se j.s. coverent tavolveness

Recollections of CI oiticials

.. .

The organization of the coup groun

Way a coup failed to follow the assassination

Intemational activity in oposition

to Irujillo

the first Fariana memorandus

Aporcash to Iridilio by Cereral Clar:

State asks Farlead 12 he could engineer 2

Farland replies toat he couid

Parland says tre dissidents aced guas

The U.5. 1s prepared to assist in overthrowits Trujillo

Ruboteon asks tast criper rifles be supplied the dissidents

Acting DCI aparoves air droy of 12 Sori-gileld rifies

Special Group approves mall aros for dissidesis

COS aaks that one weapon ce sent in cace pousa

Dearbom lears of plan to assassinai by intercepting auto

asis for sucrachure gins for pioters

Dearbora asks for -bree 3Ô-caliber pistols for dissidents

The plou to kill trujillo at his sistress' apartent

COS protest restriction on pouchira weapons

Ila5 Guidance cable on policy ana

Station asks persission

to pass throe carbizes to dissidents

Egs approves fasäing carsines

The corbines are pessed to the dissidants

Request for pouch waiver rei pouching submachine guas

Sucrachine guns pouched

Pleas from dissidents that subnachine guns de passed to then

• Egs infoins the station not repeat not to pass subrachine guas

Post-Bay of Pigs standdare cable

Station acknowledges resipt of sunsachine gurs

Draft cable (not sent) approving relesse of sumachine guns

State Departuent disapproves passing suspacrice gins

The viereabouts of che three caroines

Special Croup

contias rot passing suboachiza guas to dissidents

I'ce dissidents' assassinatica plans are fim

U.S. policy does not condose assassiration

Dearoca and the COS protest .

Critic lio. Los the assassiration

Vice President Joanson asis a'cout arms delitesy

Discovery of U.S. involvement with assassinatior group

Recopitulation of eras passed

or considared for passing

The rotivations of tee assassias

SECAST-EYES ONLY

1382

30

34

40

40

41

42

42

43

GAFF

50

51

51

52

53

54

55

59

61

---

## Page 2

14-00000

a ..

274 0'59

320227- SYES DALY

Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator, was essacsizated at

about ten poo. on the night of 30 May 1951. It was Trujillo's

custon to visit one oi ais aistresses at tis ranch at San Cristobal

about cace a reek. Oh rost of his travels he rode in a Carysler

with bullet-proof glass aad "iin security guards riding in accompanying

cars.

He departel Pron this practice on his periodic trips to San

Cristobal and substituted a nizaly stereotyped pattera of action:

after his nightly valk, be disissed his companions; changed into a

khaki uniform; and set out for San Cristocal In an unescorted 1957

Chevrolet, airays driven by the sare chaufseur.

On the night of the siajing, the cherrolet was intercepted on

& four-lane highway on the outsirts of Clodad Trujillo by elgat

armed assassins in three cars. Trujillo was killed by gunfire, and

his body was removed from the scere by the assassias. Trujillo's

chauffeur was seriously wounded,

was left benind by tce assassins,

and survived. All of the assassins escaped from the scere. Ohe was

never caugat and as eventually granted amnesty. Two were killed

• While resisting arrest. Tee ochers ...were arrested, confessed,.

and were later executed cefore cooing to trial. About elzat or nine

otters, ioo sere in on or iner of the plot but did not participate

in the actual assassication, sere killed while in custody, alie

resisting arrest, or by suicide to avoid arrest and torture.

(Ilote: he use

the ters "plotters" to reier to all of those involred

this atterpt to

overthre: Dujillo.

"issassins" refers to the

Goall group that actually did the killing.)

SEORET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 3

There were reporto in Ciuded Inijillo zu due time trat the

V.S. Consulate hed been in sore ray Involved vita tre ploiters.

Eventually, after the surving plotters vere granted amnesty,

pany of the details care out.

forman Call, a reporter with the

San Juan Star, wrote an article that appeared in The lied Popublic

Issue Of 13 April 1963. Excerpes follow:

The assassination of the Doninican Republic's Parael L.

Irujlilo was carried out with assistance froz the US Central

Intelligence Agency. Arms for the May 30, 1961 slaying of the

69-year-old dictator on a lonely stretch of highwaynear his

capital were smuggled by the CIA into the country at toe

request of the assassins.

The CIA began shipping arus to the Doninicen Republic 1n

late 1950, following a sertes of talks between US Coasul. Henry

Dearbors, Chief Poli-lenl Officer John Barfield of the U3

Also Involved in the plot was

Antonio Imbert, who bad bees Governor of Porto Plata province.

As TrujIllo's political and Mrancial problems deepened,

talks continued between Dearbon, Barfield and leaders of the

anti-Trujillo conspiracy. Toward the end of 1960, contact was

established between Amiana and a CIA agent who ... was

named Plato Cox.

The key link between the assassins and the CIA in tre aras

shipnents vas'a long-tive Averican civilian resident of Cludac

17Ud1110, Lorenzo Berry, otberaise knowa as "Wimpy," who operated

a supersarket in a fashionable neighborhood where injillo also

lIved.

"Wimpy" was put under brief arrest after the illling but

was later allowed to leave the country.

Fae

- 2

SECRET-CIES ONLY

---

## Page 4

82072-203 0287

gun parts tacared the Republic in specially-cared food cans,

which were

lacer

turned over to the co-spirators.

Plans 2o= the Inteaded assassination were worked out during

the same-period in rich the abortive ascault on Cuva was being.-

prepared.

Ecrever, when the CIh-organized April 17, 1961,

invasion at ie lay of Pigs failed and vorld attention was

focused on washington's complicity in that operation, a post-

ponement of te attempt on Trujillo's life was ordered because

of the embar-assment esotner such failure might cause the

United States. But the order to noid up case too late.

The

needed weapons were already in the cagas of the conspirators,

who refused appeal's ly Dearborn and Barrield to delay tbe

assassinatios.

They insisted on moving at the first opportmity.

Inis came on May 30; when 'Prujillo and his chauffeur drove out

Into the coumary in an unescorted 1957 Chevrolet for a

rendezvous at a San Cristocal estate, La Fudacion, with

Trujillo's 20-year-oid eistress, Mona cancaez.

It can be reported on excellent authority that close

associates of the slain dictator koew of the US role within

a few days following the killing.

Dearbors, Barfleid and Berry had neanwhile been rushed

out of the Dominican Republie by US officials.

Since the ouster of tze Irujillos, Berry (""Lapy") has

returned to operate his handsorely appointed supermarket,

where he treets custorers with caly and courtesy, as 1f

We intervieved Richard Bissell (then DD/P), J. C. King (then

Calef, YE DivIsion), and I. D. Esterline (then Chief of Operations,

WI DIvIsion). Klaz recalls the Ageney's fole as being limited to

monitoring intercal plotting against the irujillo regine "but. not

pushing or Inst1sasing." Esterline, like Kins, recalls that the

Agency was not directly involved in coup plotting. He descrlbed the.

.. 5. 1

SECRET-SEAS ONLY

---

## Page 5

furnisbig de weapons as a symbol--amething that rould coastitute

tangible evidence of U.S. support. Bissell rerembers lie Agency

role as belng sonewhat more positive than that descelsed by klaz

end Esterline. He resed the Agency's role as are ol sirtas suppost

to an Indigenous group snose intended actions vere in tice U.S.

interest. Ee described the affair es "a fairly 2oral operation

Involving seetlags, discussions, and forsal approvals." de do sot

have firm Information as to whether or no. any of tice seapons

supplied by ciA vere actually used le the assasstatioa of Inujillo.

Both EsterIlne and King celieve they vere not. Bissell, sorever,

bas a vague impressian that one of item vas.

The Agency officers rost imedletely Involved with the plotters

are nos widely scattered.

sho was chief of station.

until October 1960, is now retired.

who was chief

of station at the time of the assasstration, 1s in

resigaed in 1964

and 1s believed to be living in Puerto Rico.

the head

quarters branch chief, is in

We elected not to call

back any of these people for interviews. Watle they night be able

SECRET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 6

to furnish alaor details that are pisstig irin the viltten records,

de think it unlitely trat tier youid be dole to add sigelficantly

so the quite complete record that appears in the EDgED operatioral

files.

Agency activities aired at replacing the Trujillo regine were

assigned the cryptony EIDED. One segment of ElDED was known as

the cryptonya lo= the operation to remove trujillo by

violent action. We have reviewed the voluminous EMDEOD files. Most

of this account is dram fron then. Many of the more significant

documents were not put lato the END files but vere kept in a

private file by J. C. King. Ee rade that file availble to us.

We also have studied another particularly usefui document. The

Dominican Military Intelligence Service (SI1) officer put in charge

Investigation of the

of the/Trujillo assassination was a ravy lieutenant nased Ortiz.

• The Dominican Republic assigned his to its embassy in Ottava in

November 1961 when the ITijillo fanily's attempt to regain pover

falled. The New York field office, of the FBI held extensive

Interviews with hin from 6 April through 10 May 1952. The result

was a massively-detailed, 162-page report on the plot and on the

assassination as recostructed by the SIM from its Interrogations

of the persons it ayprekended.

5

SEGRST-205 ONLY

---

## Page 7

can stase the origize aas

the coursa o1

U.S, polley "ith respect to the overtaros di Trijillo. We also can

ascertain fron the files the cature and the extent of U.S. support

of the plotters, including the passing to trem of weapons out of the

U.S. Consulate in Cludad Trujille. What ve cannot discover from tice

files, despite quite massive docusentation, is hos the coup group

was organized. Ice best single account ve fied, and It 1s not wholly

accurate, is in a book by Robert Crassweller. i The main flaw in

the story is its failure to Identify the Individuals with whom the

J.S. Cover ment was actually working. Exceryts follow:

The plot was organized on the basis of two groups of

conspirators linked togetber by a llaison that later proved

too flaglle to bear the stresses laid upon it. Each groug

had Its purpose and its separate personnel.

the function of the Action Group was to assassinate

Trujillo and immediately present proof of its succes, in

the form of Trujillo's corpse, to the second group, the

Political Group. The latter would then launc a coup,

taking over the machinery of the gover-ent and the Armed

Forces.

The Action Group consisted of eight ren.

It appears to

have been organized originally by General Antonio Inbert

Barreras and Salvador Estelle. . .... They were joined

by Lleut. Anado Garcia Guerrero, a neaber of the military

corps attached to Irujillo in tre National Palace; Antonio

de la Mazz, the brother of Octario de la Vazz, who had been

killed by the governent because of his involvenent in the

6

STORET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 8

Galladez case; Evassa= Rejeda; Roberto Pastoriza; and Pedro

Livio Colano.

Ice elga-i seaber, lancel Coceres Tuati, is In

Mosa os tue iight of me. 30th and say none o. tre actlor.

The Political Croro had a less distinc: bembership. t

Included Luis Aniaza 11J, Modesto Dí3z, Cereal Juay ICat=

Diaz, and several others.

At the very top it had the support

uf General Rosan Fernandez, Secretary 02 State for the Arced

Forces, and his brotcer 3ibia. . ...:.

The over all authority appears toihave centered placipally

1a General Diaz, probably the only oze wea bad sufficient

prestige to command authority. . ..•

The Action Group sould remain in daily readiness.

Inforration In the Palace Indicated that Tujillo vas going

to calve ty Estancia Fundacion... Garcia Guerrero 17 the

Palace would infors the others by persoral cessage. • ?.•

Tae expected sessage fros Garcia Guerrero in the Palace

cane to the patient plotters at seven o'cloc's on the evening

of May 30. They were not fully precared and coordinated at

this soment, but tize emotional and impetuous de la laza

threatened. to.act by himself 1f the others lazged.:. 1s any

event, the plan went into execution... ... Each of then

bad his revolver or pistol, and de la laza also had his own

saved-off shotgun and two M-1 semiautomatic rifles. • • ...

Tre conspiracy began to come apart within an hour. Never

very professionally contrived, the plot sas bastened prematurely

to its culmination by the Impatience of de la Maza, and 1t was

nor alilicted with bad luc's and ineptitide. I-ediately after

the assassinallus, the ben of the Action Group vere imble to

reach General Roman. • • ...

The Political Group of the conspiracy rever took up its

planned sole.

The Actica Group scattered, leerinz a trell 9g

side as a boulevard.

Injilio's body was left in the trun's of

de la l'aza's car, parsed in the garage of Ceneral Tomas Diaz,

where the police found it in a few hours.

The consolators:

vere all hunted down very quickly, except for Aniaza end

Imbert, s00 naraged to conceal themselves for wonths until

the danzer had passed.

a02-7-

SEGRET-AIDS CHILY

stifle

ir. sins David

---

## Page 9

SEGIET-E13 ONLY

Toe FBI report of 1t5 laterviews of Ortiz, the SIl investlaator,

gives an excellent accoust of way the plot fell apart after the

assassiration toos place. One of the assassins, Fedro Livio Cedeso,

was cerlously wounded (probably. by fire froz his or carpanions).

¡ All of the assassins assembled at General Diaz' house after the

k111123. One of them called a friend, Dr. Pobert Reid Cabral, to

treat livlo. Dr. Reid found him so badly injured teat surgery would

be required. Reid ard tro of the assassins took livio to a hospital.

While In deliri'm be muabled the nanes "de la Kaza" and "Juan

Tomas." The police immediately picked up two brotbers of Antonio

de la Maza. Nelther was personally involved in the plot, but both

knew the detail's and the names of most of the assassins. General

Diaz, Antonio de la Maza, and Ileut. Garcia Guerrero were killed

resisting arrest. Antan and Imbert went into hiding and survived.

The rest were caught and interrogated followingtorture. All

confessed.

The confessions led to identification of persons who were ia

or on the filnges of the Polltical Group: General Rouan and his

brother, Amtana Tio, General Garcia Urbaez, General Guariosex

Estrella, Tonas Baez Diaz, Modesto Diaz, and Miguel Angel Baez Diaz.

between

the plotters and the U.S. Consulate. However, the SIM did not

.

8 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SE0Z27-GT23 OXX

discover toe lientities o? the pollical piotiors vita inor the

Consulate ins actually voriang, because neither of the rea ino sight

have kion the Identities vere available for interrogatica. malagi tio

escaped and Gazeral Diez sas killed.

Although the identities and the intention of the Action Group

were fairly vidaly inor to persons not actually cembers o? it, there

appears to have been

excellant compartmentation between tie Political

and the Action Groups--persaps too much compartentation. Ice

assassination itself oa: nell planned. General Diaz was in over-

all charge of the operation, but de la Maza was the one who did all

of the work. Ee took taree cars to a local garage

and had the

engines rebuilt so trat the cars could reach speeds of 120 mph.

He had possession

of the beapcas from the U.S. Consulate, plus

several of his own. Ee and the other farticipasts took the cers

to the site selected for the Xilling and conducted dry ruas caca

night. Everyining wes ready and the assassins were lying in wait

for Trujillo on the night of 23 May. At the last minute he decided

not to go to San Cristosal because ne wasn't feeling too well. The

assassins continued their dm runs each evening. Aîter the assassina-

tion was carried out, essentially as it had been planned, the coup

that ras to follor failed--ia fart becausa of bad luck, in part because

of pour planning, and in part because of too zuch compartsentation.

=9 -

SIUIET-

---

## Page 11

Ceneral Rosan, sho was. to take over the goverest after Trijillo's

deatb, was no: told tost the assassination was to be atterpted on

MAy 30th. After the slajitz, General Diaz tried to telepcore

General Roman but could not reach hit. Diaz then took the car

wita Trujillo's body still in lts tras and drove to Ronas's house.

He saw so many soldiers in the vicinity toat. he gave up and returned

hore, leaving the car in the driveway with the body still i= the

trunk, where it was later found by the police.

What had bappened was this: Forter general and former head

of the SIM, Arturo Espatllat, happened to chance upon the scene

while the assassination vas taking place. He was out for a drive

with his wife and was passed by a car that he recogrived as trujillo's.

Ee stopped at a drive-in restaurant and almost immediately beard

shooting ahead; which he suspected Involved Trujillo. Ee drove to

the sone, saw what was happening, turned around, and sped back

into town. He stopped at a silitary Installation and gave tine

alars and then drove to the hove of General Roman to alert his.

He and Roman then returned to the scere of the assassination,

arriving simultaneously vity the police. Ine police found Tujillo's

chauffeur, who was wounded but still alive. Ronan and Espelllat

then went to the hospital to try to question the caulfeur. aus,

General Diaz could not reach General Reman to inform Rosan teat

- 10-

SEURET-ELLS CALY

---

## Page 12

14-00000

980787-2833 0127

Trujillo had been illiad and that i: ins dIe for Roman to sale ais

move to take ore: the govement. Ronge ired only leat there had been

a shooting involving Trujillo and that Tillo was sissing. He did

not knod whether General Dia:' group vas involied in it or not. fe

vas reluctant to gove until be vas sure bat Trijillo Jas dead. By

the tie Roman concluded that Trudillo must de dead, It was too late

for his to act; Hector Trujillo and Joanny Abbes had already ta'sen

charge. ' Roman did nase a couple of feeble tries at engineering a

take over, but it is apparent that he had no real advance plan nor

any appreciable chances of succeeding.

The assassination itself and the plotting preceding it took

plase against a background of intercatiosal activity in opposition

to the Trujillo regine, with boid the CAS and the U.S. taking clear-

cut stands. These are some of the highlights:

- 11 -

SECRET-2723 0.2F

---

## Page 13

STONET- SYRS ONLY

OlS assigned to investizate the charges reported on 8 June 155o:

that the Dosiaicar goverrment vas gullay as charged.

b. A near-miss assassination atrept against President

Betancourt on 24 June 1950 k1lled to in ä1s entourgge esd

Injured his and several others. The Verezuelan goverazent

announced after capture of most of the assassins that the

Dominican goverrment was responsible for the attempt on Betan-

court's life and took its case to the QAS. On 20 Augüst, the

OAS voted saastions against the Dominicen Republic. Under

Secretary of State Dillon, testlfying before the House Agriculture

Carmitree on 24 August in support of a request by President

Eisenhover for a cut in the Douinican Repuolie's sugar quota,

Is reported as having said that it vas hoped that econouic

sanctioas would result in the donfall of Irujillo's dictator-

ship and its replacement by a noderate and free regime. The

United States severed diplouatic relations with the Doninican

Republic on 26 August 1960, eithough consular relations were

continued:

- 12 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 14

SENNET-ENDS BILY

As a further prelude to a chronclogical review of operation

_we think lt would be useful to lensily the geople

Involved, especially since offisers o? the Departsent of State

plajed a very prozinent role.

Wasnizzton - Departent of State

Roy R. Ribotton

Frauis Devine

Joan C. Hill

Assistant Secretary of State for

Inter-Acerican Affairs

Special Assistant to Rubotton

Special Assistant to Rubotto

Weshiagton - CIA

J. C. King

Chief, WH Division

Chief, Branch III, iN Divisioa

Cluded Irujillo - Departent of State

Joseph. S. Farlaal

Ambassador until 29 Jure 1960. It 15

pertizent to note tha: King and Ester-

line ettribute U.S. a=d CIA invoivement

- 13

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 15

SESTET-EVES DALY

Henry Dearborn

John D. Barfield

with the plovers in the Dorialcan

Republic to Ancassador Farlaad.

Tray

descrite bin as a forer FBI eaglojee

who considered hinself quite a clardestine:

operator. Esterline, who later ferred

under him 1al

called hir

He had

direct dealinzs wish a number of the key

plotters.

Counsellor of Sabassy until 26 August

1960 and Consul Cereral thereaiter.

He

used the code name DELTA in correspondence

with the plotters.

Second Secretary until 26 August 1960

A Crypesay Descer taercaster.

CIA cryptoaya:

Cludad Trujillo - CLA

Chief of Station until October 1960

Chief of Station fron 20 January until

# Jime 1961. Code name used with the

plotters: CAIGO

Key Doninican Plotters

Code names: SWORD and EL CHICO

Code fames: Mr. X, ABC, and VACUATE

Code name: SOCRATES

SEGRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 16

PAN POON 1070436 • ULE TAS

SCENT-DIES GUY

- 15=

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 17

4-00000

tio

SIGNES-CES 0XL/

Two docurents provide a useful point oi depagure, from an

historical point of vier. One is a semi-official letter from

Ambassador Farland in the Dominican Republic to Assistant

Secretary of State Rubotton.

16 November 195,9

Ambassador Farland wrote an "Official-Inforal" memorandum

to Rubotton reporting that "the underground is more active today

than ever

in the history of the Trujillo regine." He described the

principal opposition group as being about 2,000 strong. He said:

o within this group there is growing militant anti-

American feeling based on the premise that the United States

should actively aid the Dominican revolutionary (sic) ior the

overthros of the Trujillo regine. Discussions I have heard on

subject show an appalling lack or understanding of the

position of tce United States and its adopted doctrine of non-

intervention.

• • Tais group is in possession of

clandestine broadcasting equiprani chica vill go into operation

when the strike is cade.

has been infored and joins with

me in suggesting that you pass this inforation to J. C. King."

- 16 -

SEGRET-EYES OMLY

---

## Page 18

Пsion.

CENT-DES 0217

15 FecrusTY 1020

A CIA siati paper, addressed to Caici, Mi Division, discusses

a pian for improvicg intelligence

coverage of the Dominican Republ

In the event of T'rujillo's rezoval

frog pover.

The objectives

Stated in tre

Paper were to ensure orderly transition in the event

Trujillo abdicated or vas deposed and to prevent a takeover by

Castro-type forces.

The originator of the draft

•1s not show, but it was to be forvarded to President Eisenhower

from General Edwin Clark, a friend of the Fresident from their jears

of nilitary service.

The plan was for Clark to approaca Trujillo,

with whos he had been on good terms in the past, and attempt to

persuade Trijillo to

retire.

It ras to be pinted out that there was

= 17-

---

## Page 19

SEONET- 523 0117

n0 089

who could succeed his, and that to arotect his roily and

to precerve his image as El Benerator, he should step dom and

allor asylu to de

arranged for tir. His fantiy would have te

wealth already outside the Dominican Fepublic, and the forture

Inate cula be place to trust, to la alminintered aterationall

know personages for toe senefit of the Dosinicn people.

This proposition received hizi-level attention in Washington,

Including that of President Elsenhorer, Secretary of State Eerter,

and Allen Dulles. In approving Clari's approach to Trujillo,

the President specifled that Clark should travel as a representative

of the State Departuent, rather than as a personal erisiary of the

President. General Clars traveled to the Dominican Repliblic and

met with Trujillo on 27 March. By the time of the neeting it

appears that it had been decided that the pian would ke presented

as merely that of private citizen Clark, and that was what was doze.

The statlon thought it likely that Trujillo recognized the official

U.S. Government kand in the proposal. Oi course, nothing care of the

meeting-

22 March 1960

Ambassador Farlard, in a TOP SECRET senorandum to Ruboitca,

forrarded a plan of a Dominicar group plotting Trujilio's overthros

- 18 -

STORET-BIES OIL7

---

## Page 20

bearing

the

code nace "Operation Lancet," It vas basically a

proposal for a

course of politival astica reinforced by tre threat

of being

cacked by muscle. The operatica was to begin •1th tha

arrival of a "spectal U.S. confidential envoy"/dould tell Trujillo

to leave

the countrj. "He tells it plainly and decisively; ne vill

give his 12

or i8 hours to do it." It would ce nade clear tai

11 Trujillo refused, a border incident would ve contrived, vaica.

would be colloved by "collective latervention." Assuming

Trujillo's acceptance of the ultimatun, the plan then outlined steps

for transition io an operating representative goversent. The ary

would ba reduced in size. A caretaker goverment would prepare for

free elections. Ambessador Farland iorrarded the plan with tiese

contenis of his or to Rubottos:

..• this segment of the dissidents is psychologically

conditioned to a point where 1e will take

any step except the

ultirate, and for the execution of the latter they extect

United States assistance.

"Dic's, I thin's the tire has core lor certain agencies of

our Governent, without attribution, to establish and lapierent

a definite constructive program to influence the course of eveats

in the Dominican Republic.

My conversations with the Secretar

and Allen Dulles euphasized the problems ana the possibilities

of tois type oi approach. . .

30 March & 7 April 1950

The Special Group considered actions that might be taken in the

- 19 -

SECRET- ZIES ONLY

---

## Page 21

::A-00n

evert of a flare-up in the Dozinican Repuulic. On 30 March, fearing

tcat Cuba nigao be involved, there was talk of evacuating U.S.

CIV1IIa25 froo Cuantanamo.

There was also discussion of the

possibility c=

sealing off the land eatrance to die Dominican Republic

from Faiti and of

the problem

of providing asjiur for Trujillo. On

7 April, there was furtcer talk of saaling off the country it trujillo

fell, and an appraisal vas nade of tre chances o° his leaving

willingly:

- там.

•.. It 1s evident that Trujillo "111 not consider

any arrangerents for orderly succession to hinseli, but

that be will either bang ca to the bitter end or flee tbe

country on stort nobice, a la Ezgista."

9 April 1950

State cent a cable to Farland

frou which

the following

is

an extract:

"Could you, li so instructed, make appropriate arrangements

withta rext lew weeks with eppropriate civil and military

dissident elements to take over the GODB? You would be authorized

to indicate to-tner that is soon as they had seized power they

shoulà imediately request United States recognition, and ast for

United States military assistance under Article Three of the Rio

Dominican Republic

"Weat, if any,

aid would be

essential to dissident elements

prior to takeover .

•= 20 =

SECRET-EARS ONLY

-Tanana, in a mandifin

---

## Page 22

3

S20 21-1/33 ORLY

"IT rich to espracize strongly that soove is for continzency

Plazales burposes orly and in no

et present contemplates such autica.

any indicates glees anthortey

. ...

12 42511 1960

Tarland casted his reply

in part as follows:

"Under instruction, la rould be pussibie for ne to zase

arrangesents with apprepriate civilian dissidents rose leaders

are knor to se including names toeir selectees for cop

governmental positions, and vita ose miliary dissident, a

general, woo 1s expectiaz an exchange of passiords for purpose

secret discussions. •

"Regardless of

.. - sething mies: dis exises,

Indicaticas reflecü Dominican dissidents, iso are aditiedly

poorly arced, loosely organized and lace cousing liaison ish

military dissidents, will 2lad it diffioult to effect tase-

over of GODR ithout existence one or sore or combination or

folionna developments (asica we sumarise celow):

(1) Clandestine ars shimments, with sabotage cateriel.

(2) An inrestion to serve as a sigral to the populace.

(3) Inplenestation of the dissidents" "Operation Lancet."

(4)

(5)

"Incapacitation or assassination of Irujillo."

(ó)

A careful step-ay-stey plan for the period preceding

the coup and for the period folloring it.

Farland stated a bied fo= "nizitu out sey cooperation" ira Dainican

military dissidents. Ee added:

"One of the greatest contridutions ü.S. could mase to

dissidents would de

to les then knod de are prepared to assist

- 21 -

Sbolti-27S 0

---

## Page 23

# 4-00000

33A0-D.ES CA

tre=; transpission of amarent and sabotage saterial .

fully substaatiate thie cooperation. . . ?

• could

9 May 1969

A nerorandum written of

a debriefing of Ambassador Farland reads,

In part, as follows:

"Tue dissidents need guns and armnitios fron the Valted

States. In particular toey need a snail number of high-povered

rifles vith telescopic lenses. Ine Ambassador said that he sa:

no problem in the purchase and delivery clandestinely o? the

aros to the dissidents.

3ut be said, of course, this raises

the Question of whether the U.S. Goversent wants to engage in

this activity.

"Col. King said that this oi course is a policy decision. Fe

said that CIA could celiver the arus if this is the group we want

to support.

- 22 -

15700

EDACT-27E5 BMLY

---

## Page 24

S.8HET-EIES ONLY

(cent: Pariana vas in lashinaton for consultatices.

Alihough de 1s listed as having served as Mbassador antl: 28

June 1950, it appears that he ala not antually return to dutir

in Cludad Trujillo. lils successor, Vinton Chapin, was nosinated

13 June, but he never took the post.)

3 Jure 1960

Farland net with

in WE Division.

the Doninican desk officer

to see if tice

Farland hed been dealirg. Farland

senorandum of the

said, "Those are the boys all rigini."

needing includes this comment:

"Parland teen told me that the underground opposition are

planning to assassinate Trujillo.

Fe said that it is plansed to

use a powerful boub which could be planted along the rouce uf

Trujillo's nigatly walk and coula be detonated by s recote-

control firing device.

well along and

Fe intimated that this plan is pretty

could be executed at any tire."

Undated Working Paper (filed between papers dated 25 May and 13 Jure)

The author is not identifled nor is there any indication that

the proposal was approved.

Its objective was stated thus: "To

precipitate the doinfall of the

Trujillo regise by 1 August or as

soon as possible thereafter." It proposed that the U.S. becase a

price notive force against he Trujillo regise. "In the event Trijillo

- 23 -

SZORET- DIES ONLY

_*

-..-

---

## Page 25

STOLET-DES SI!

refused to abdicate, consideration should se diven to other cover or

Orer* actions desigred to effect his reroval fron the scere."

A

deailine of 1 July as proposed for completing arrangements.

17 June 1960

senty Dearbor, who was in charge in the incassador's absence,

queried State

Jacking for coatirmation on

certain points

for a meeting he was having with a dissident leader,

He stated his understanding of the U.S. position

as follows:

Toe U.S- 1s not prepared to take overt action against

the Trujillo govervent while it is In full control.

The U.S. is prepared to assist the opposition clandestinely

to develop effective forces to accomplish trujillo's overtaro.

c. Assistance must continue to be channeled covertl;

ant1l suca tire as toe dissidents establish a provisiona

goverment which controls a substantial section of the

Dosinican Pepublic.

20 Juse 1960

Dearborn,

asked Rubottom and Farlard

11 be could ma'se the sare statements concerning U.S. policy in a

another dissident leader. Farland replied

in the affirative.

- 24-

STORET-EMES ONLY

---

## Page 26

14-00000

28 Juse 1350

Dearborn cabled the results of his flest meeting with

He said that

felt that the time to concentrate on,

icr planning purposes, was the period exterding through the

"incapacitatiod of Trujillo; too nuch planning lor what would

follow risked exposure. Dearborn said that he agreed.

Also on 28 Juse (although the first written record we find 1s

& curmary semorandia prepared on 18 October), Rubottom told J.C.

Kinz that the Government of the United States vas prepared to

participate in the overthrow of the Trujillo regime to the rollowing

extent: "to provide a sall number of sniper rifles or otber devices

for the renoval. of key Irujillo people from the scene. . .

..."

Rubottom edded that the U.S. Goverment was not prepared, at this

time, to send aras, equipment, or paranilitary experts to assist the

undergound to accomplish a revolt.

39 June 1960

Dearbor cabled the results of his meeting with

said that

had zecommenced

a temporary standdown on "action

toward incapacitation of Trujillo" while determining Verezuela's

reaction to the Trujlilo assassination plot against Betancourt.

Ee

- 25 -

SECRET-EYES OJL7

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SEONET-EVES ONLY

Dearbom reported that the dissidents had a sgabillty for picking

1n

up ars at sea and for caching/peurby caves. He also described an

airdrop site.

1 July 1950

A senorandun addressed to the Acting ICI recormended approval

for the delivering of respons to tre Dominican dissidents.

rifles, Modal 1903 (Springrield), with telescopic sights, together

wite five hundred rounds of amunition for same. • . .

"Approval for delivery of these arus has been given by

Assistant Secretary of State Roy Rubotic, uno requests that

the aros be placed in tie bands of the opposition at the

earliest possible rarent.

The menorandun was sigred by Rudy Gonez for Calef, WH Division; was

concurred in by Richard Helns as Acting DD/P; and was approved by

C. P. Catell on 2 July 1960 as Acting DCI.

Dearbora was iniorned by cable of plars to airdrop trelve

30.03 Springfields, rita armunition, and vita sigats "fixed and

sighted."

The cable asked for the coordinates of a suitable drop

site ard for a four-man reception team vitia flastlights.

The cable

= 26-

05,0/05.0= BAT

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 28

14-00000

30M87-075 GIU

added that, "Il air drop delivery not fossiule, dos noù studylna

8 July 1962

in rärt:

(

* 34:

employed simultaneously vita action to incapacitate Irujillo

and what is needed in ray of material support for inplementation

of plan of action.

of military particiration ta preparations.

aprarent lacà of knowledge of opposition organization, most

logical that he is actirely collaborating iith a group that

must have some plan and capability for action which will essure

table laterly goverrent after renoval ce trujillo..

In your opinion are !

neners of sane group

or 1l not could the tro groups de serged? . . .

8 September 1960

The Special Group discussed a letter draited by the lepartment

of State

for delivery to Trujillo (copy in CIA illes dated 5 September)

proposing

that be stey down. The DCI (ir. Dulles) doubted the wisdom

of putting such a proposal in writing. He preferred a personal

approach.

The Group concluded that a personal approach would be

best and discussed Willian Parley as a candidate for the job.

18 October 1950

Chief, Wi Division, prepared

a menoraadug sumarizing approvals

- 27 -

SEURET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 29

14-00000

.."..

obtainel for action in support of the Dosinican intamal opposition.

The text states that the sacary das

"provided in response to jour

vertal request on 13 Octoter 196) ... " This 1s the renorandur

to which reference 1s, made earlier under the entry for 28 June 1960.

29 Decencer 1950

The minutes of the Special Group meeting of tais date read,

1n part:

"Bistel gave the broad cutlians of a two-pronged pian

for proceeding vith cerain limitea covert activities virected

against the Trujillo regime. Ee emphasized tbat although

support would be given to tice Figures group tiere is no

intention of establishirg a paramilitary force as such ..

He also emphasized that the proposed actions would not of them-

sel'res bring about the desired result in the near future,

lecking sore decisive strose against Trujillo himself.

• It was noted thet Mr. Pawley feels thet

overt Intervention in tbe Dacinican Pepublic sould be

mounted stall are see plate cra operatie at this eine

no matter what the eventual decision on overt intervention

(Comment: We find nothing in the flles identiflable viti

such a "plan." We found no other reference to any specific

plan of about this date.)

12 January 1961

The following is an excerpt fros the ninutes of a meeting of the

- 28 -

SECRET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 30

114-00000

90027-3713 0007

Spacial Group 07

this dete:

"Mr. Merubant explained ine iceling of tre Departet ei

State that limited supplies of saall ams and other retecial

should ke made availaole for dissidents inside the Dominiva

Republic.

Parrott said that we believe this can be canaged

securely by CIA, and that the plan would cali for final imas-

portation into the group being provided by the dissidents

themselves.

The Group approved the project."

19 January 1951

"For Dearborn:

FYI and use as you consider adviseable,

aushority has been given Has for dalivery to interal 1-0a:

i siniced supply of mall arms and oter paterial on corditio

bat introduction of saturial into Donkey be eijected by Joes

• . . . . Above coordinated with State.""

24 January 1961

Menorandur for the record of a discussion of Project EMDED by

members ci the CA Staff and of WE Division:

"It was confired (from Mr. Parrott by phone) that the

Special Group nor has approved that a 'linited supply' of

small arus and related equipment may be provided covertly to.

the Domisican resistance elsments with whom we have been

Tois was additional to the Special Group's approval

on 29 Decenber 1250 of our Goerational Proposal."

(Coument: As noted is the entry for 29 December, we 150%

nore of the specifies of

this (perational Proposal.)

- 29 -

SECRET-LIES OMLY

---

## Page 31

14-00000

?:

(

31 January 1961

"Official-Iniomal" letter from Dearbora to Devise In State

Departrent:

"With regard to the delivery of exotic equirent, py

friends "ere of course deligated that suca a decision had been

Lade.

I hope that it will not be necessary to play dom too

long the question of actual delivery since trey are eager

and expectant and too great tardiness on our fart would only

lead then to question our sincerity."

6 February 1961

Cable fron headquarters:

"1. Realize details not nor available but las world

appreciate dissidents/_reaction to ofte= of amed assistance

to include. dissidents / current plan . .

"2. Also request

Jinittal assessment

Laissidents' capability carry out plan of action once lisited

armed assistance provided."

10 February 1951

The station cabled ito reply:

"Jjo solia reection except joy as o? 9 Feb.

"Initial assesment is L

and / could 10i

carry out plan.

But with access

1 he 101

approachinz point when will better be able evaluate group

potential for action.

He some weeks away frau being able

make solid preliminary assessent.

"Sugzest KUSARK consider sending in each pouch one wall

- 30 -

SECRET- DIES ONLY

---

## Page 32

827-73371

size high fire pover weepon co at least gesture in rigat

directio: can be nade it de ail carom out. Arco cocla

later.

I4 February 1551

At the Special Group meeting of thin date, Mr. Sundy:

•.. asked that a senoraidia be prepared for rigcer

authority on

the subject of as plans can be made for a

successor goverment to prujilio.

(Coment:

He did not find a copy of such a senoraadu

in CIA files.)

15 Februery 1251

the headquarters branda caleiy

Excerpts inca his

metorandum record of the seetiag follow:

plajed down sonewhat the necessity for

delivery oi arns, althouga be did say that it is desirable

and should be a part of the plaming.

Ee said that members of

the opposition

could, 1f they wanted to, obtaia scall quanitities

Of arms

fron Amy contacis... but that any arns so obtained

would lave to be used very quickly before their loss is

discovered. For this reason, be said it rould be desireable to

have aras delivered by us tat could be stored for use at any

norent desired.

said that the object of obtaining this lind of help

anyway is the elimiration of Trujilio and instead of using arms

or grenades be began to speak of more exotic materiels and rethods

... a porerdul bomb that coula be planted along the route of

Trujillo's evening talk and cold be detonated frou a rearos

- 31 -

SEBNET-DIES ONLV

---

## Page 33

S80027-5133 527

elestronic device

.. (or).

• she possibility of poisoning

the dictator's iood or of putting poison capsales in bottles

of certain sedicines trau the dictator is Inore to take

regularly....

"A less exotic and sore practical plan that they put for ard

was one that they said had already been planned at one tize

before. They said that wen the dictator leaves his office for

his hose there are three automobiles in bis procession "lin the

dictator himself in the first automobile end the bodyguards 1a

the following two.

The iday that bas been discussed intemally

15 for several truess to bloci isa progress di these cars at a

given intersection at waich time young neu sco belong to the

action groups would lead out of the trucks with fire arms and

grenades to finish off the dictato.."

4 March 1961

Headquarters pouched to tre station a copy of

mezorendia

On l March, the chief of station

cabled bis assessment of the plan to intercept Irujillo's entourage

and kill his with guns and grenades:

!

Idea... alrost certals fall II applied. That

ype attack is precisely what bodyguards appear best qualifie

ope with. Their defense pattern ard displacement venicle:

pus police meate detour taste blocks eval fra ea tourage

jidea fatally coildish 1a

(Comment: The assassination sas actually carried out

through a variation of this scheme. The assassins detected and

took adrantage of a stereotyped pattern in Trujillo's covezents

in which he rode at night, unescorted, on little traveled aigarays.)

- 32 -

SECRET - 2VEG ONY

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET-

The station cabled headquarters on i March:

•.. if opportunity support pro-us group not to be

believe

... imperative maze

sure 31a3 tita amo ready for

immediate entry Domep ... if necessary at air doop sites .•

5 March 1951

As s follor-up

to that cable, tie station sabled a comunication

from

"Te have in our hands caance to speedup

events. Everything is being plarred perfectly. Results may be

assured as nuch as husan fallibility permits. . ....

I Marca 1961

Headyuarters cabled the field, 1a part:

"Existinz authorization precludes introduction ams into

Dom Rep by U.S. personcel. Order prepare contingesay plans

for possiole alterrate delivery zetood, request station

deteraine additional drop zones and confim those seationed

... . . Request type and quantity ars desired. . . . . .

8 March 1952

Cable from the station:

told Dearborn on 7 March toat

1234

group plan try kill trujilio c Lintersepting his sarJ at point

ate sot set and obvibusly depend

Trujillo trevel.

Tast adare

has told

us but interestinz that Change Papal lunciatura also aware plot

exists but possibly not of personnel invoived."

•is.

- 33 -

SEGMEZ- 2:33 ONLY

---

## Page 35

SEORET-RIES JULY

8 Marce 1951

He aguarters cabled the station:

Figs deeply Iaterested pian

and request urgently

aditional detalls in order save plaas tirly assistance

Uncertainty of plans, timing and chances of success precludes

Has seezing

commitest for such spelcific assistance as that

requested

13 1125ch 1951

Ecadquarters cabled the station:

C.

15 March 1961

Cable fros the station:

asked

fOr

small supply frazuentation grezeões 'for ase in next rees or so.'

the chie? of station secked back nts

Learned the dissident group must do Van tinie this

month or drop it as number of triage persons dith loose souths

are apperently avare renewal plas.

45 mo (sic) rapid fire weapons or

asked for five

sirilar,

5,500 roads argo for

- 34 -

SEONET-DIES ONLY

lei:

---

## Page 36

14-00000

8087-23 0114

гате,

• . . 50

TOskets.

incentation grenades,.. ten Giam ian?:

10 March 1961

Headquarters cabled its reply:

"Egs exploring possioilities io= ams delivery und vill

advise ASAP.

Meanwhile, request you clariay soonest:

1ma:123 regiest on ora infelative ur is de sseating sor

17 Narch 1952

Cable irom the station:

"For issue

to several Lof the dissident group Consul

•Gezeral Dearbora reguests three 33 caliver Smith and Wesson

Special pistols or similar and taree scall boxes cartriages.

If sending ammo complicates probles, advise and de sill try

get from Marines.

"Chief of Station reiterates suggestion. Lto send la each

pouch one sall size high fire power weapon as Dearbora

Increasingly concerned lest mozentu which group has now for

assassination/ declire result lack tanzible or too slow action

on ares by the U.S. Government.

Also security these people

Increasingly of direct interest US Governnent which esca day

nore involved in _the operation]. Loss oi one of key people

thru capture could lead revelation detalls ODYCKE/EMCEED

Thus preferable ve give them some chance defend

thesselves against SIl."

18 March 1951

ali 24

= 35-

SECRET- DIES CALY

---

## Page 37

:74-00000

"Eis group Escassination/ plan noa this: Group mois

Identisy Trijillo's sistress in capital.

He visits her once

weet or cron 1a 5a0 cess. Goes her apartent. auegalto and

lEntly guarded. Grouy apprently has someone in building in

can alert they to visit.

tossed as aruy Officers, call grou

or shes la stene, ente ariant and i do das,

M11l 59 to entrance, distract guard vita pretext

"To do they need fire l-3 or couparable mcrira guns and

1500 rounds am0 for persoral deiense in event firefight.

Will

use quiet weapons for casic job.

Jfinal

positica vas U.S. Coverarent get items here soonest a pouch

or similar means.

Evident he actually sorried that delivery by

other seans would compromise entire project.

Obvicus he can

coumt on Oily one group both receive arms ard do Lassassination.

expects and willing risk craos for perioc

i unretelalie lengi after assassication mainly because tor

securley reasors his group cannot apprcase allitary ana hope to

get decisive agreerent support before [Essassination/.

20 March 1951

Headguarters cabled the station:

*Regret no authoritation exists io suspend pouca regulations

agalast shiment of arms

Coordianted with State Dejartaent."

→Tis this feasible.

22 Marca 1951

The station replied, in part:

•• ve realize permission does not nor exist but

Chief of Station mors that he

via pouch for worthy purposes,

so it car te done.

judging frog

rei, is not prepared take this step. If this unalteraaly so then

- 36 -

SECRET-B/ZS ONLY

---

## Page 38

14-00000

33NET-23 027

please continue try get authorization for air drop of .

•. or import ams by fother/ seaus.

CapLetely negative plea

for ares, dater:r delivery rethod, 111l end cooperation

Jard protably oy 1

25 karch 1951

The above excerpt is the most significant point in the

cable,

but the excerpt does not fully reveal the contentious toce of the

cable. On 25 Marco, Headquarters, in a cable released by tbe DD/P

(Bissell) undertoo's to

set

straignt. The cable gives a fairly

complete statement of

U.S. policy and objectives and of

responsibilities. It 13 sumarized here. We support a program to

replece the trujillo regise; ie wish to avoid precipitate action 1ê

pianning is not well organized, as appears to be the case; machine

guns and ammunition will be supplied to demonstrate good will to the

dissidents;

the requested revolvers are being pouched. Headquarters

Is planning with State agalast the eventuallty of sudden action by

the dissidents that migat result in the forming of a new goverment

"Il above clarifles igs position,

should proceed accordingly.

In event major points revair unclear, State Departent preparing

orders perit retura for consultations."

(Concent:

We do not know ibether

replied to this cable

or not. He do not find a reply in the files.

did go to

headquarters for consultations about 5 April, but we cannot

- 37 -

* I: is apparent frou tre ENDED operational files that no ares were

ever air-dropped

S003F-4

---

## Page 39

14-00000.

establish that the trip ves a direct result of this cabla. Taere

is some evidence that Juggests that the trip may have been in

connection with a reguest fron the dissidents for submachine

guas.)

26 arch 1961

Cable frow the station:

request permission pass three semi-

automatic l1-1 carbires 30 caliber and supply ano which avaliable

consulate fom departed soval personel.

Would need fron Hqs

nine 30 cartridge magazioes for vespons. Bequest prompted by

Bute ¿5 Marcia wnica says he vul luid group

together beyond April 15 vithout arus dellvery. . . . ..

(Comment:. It may be helpful to interrupt tine chronology

at this point. As ve will later explain,..these carbines were

actually passed to the dissidents. They were in the hands of

Antonio de la Maza, who worked out the details of the assassination

and was the lead figure in carrying it out. They almost certainly

were taken to the scene of the slaying by the assassins. We have

no evidence that any of them vere actually fired during the shooting.

The little evidence ve have suggests that they were not actually

used. These three carcines are the weapons referred to by varlous

sources as having teen passed to the plotters by CIA. We flad no

evidence of any other weapons having been passed.)

::38 -

SECRET-DISS ONLY

---

## Page 40

27 Heren 1951

Eeadquarters cabled the statior:

"FYI, ref hardware the three pistols the station asked be

pouched/ nakes faizly sizeable packege if lumped single shiment.

Request soorest COS estimate of ris's involved seuding one pacsage;

or whether split shinent preferable."

(Comment: le find no Indication in the files that these

revolvers were ever actually pouched. We suspect they were not,

because the request for them vas overtaken by subsequent events.)

29 March 1961

Ecadquarters cabled the siation:

" . • . Has inclined to favor passing

ref

carbines and ammo. Are carbies carried on local Installation

Inventory, thus requiring paper wor's vaich say olor CIA's

ultimate use?

They beirg cade available to Dominicars? Require

Consul Cereral Dearborn's concurrence.. Advise... ....

Pouching. • nine ragazines . -

31 March 1961

•The station replied:

CIA officer depending on what

steps seems best here.

Dearborn concurred in request and in this

message.

We cannot esphasise enouga that we gust make gesture of

1-39 -1

SEGRET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 41

SX9N27-2723 GHI

good will to

nod. These jens are not what he

asked for but they are an friessent 11 operatloal continuity.

Toe security ilss in his having toese leus is no greater than

his having similar items delivery

Headquarters cable to the station:

"Fassing tine three carbires approved. Advise ligs shes

passing.of this eguipsent completed.

(Corment: This cable was zeleased by the DD/P (Bissell).)

1 April 1961

Cable from the station:

"The pouch formardizz Ingazines for the three carbines]

contained 15-bullet magazines rather than 30-bullet magazines

as requested. Pls expedite pouching 9 latter type M-l carbine

ragazines."

2 Apr1l 1961

Cable from the station:

[the three carbines/ to

passed

April 7. No corplications."

(Coment:. The files do not contain an account of bow the

carbines were actually passed. As we will later see, headquarters

subsequently poucked subeachine guns for passing to the dissidents.:

Headguarters asked for the station's plan for securely passirg the

submachine guns to the dissidents. The station replied: . "Propose

use essentlally same technique as that for Ebe three carbires.

• 40-

SECRET-FIES DALY

---

## Page 42

SIGNET-DIES BAY

I April 1961

Chief, Wa Division, submitted to Chief, RI, a memorandun requesting

waiver of pouch restriction on pouching weapons. "The above request

Is submitted for the following reason: Station Clidad Trujillo Les

requested that Headquarters provide four M3 machire guns and 240

rounds of ammunition on a priority basis for issuance to a sall action

group to be used for self protection."

(Coment: The entry for 18 March 1961 refers to a request

for submachire guns, but there was no follor-up on it from the statios.

Tols pouch waiver request was subnitted while the chief of station as

• 41 = :

SESHET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 43

14-00000

in finist

30AT-203 CM

at headgarters

los consultations. It is procesle that he rade tice

plea la persos.. As ill be seen later, toe sucacaire guns (the so-

called "grease fias" of World War IT) vere pouched but approval vas

never zivea the station to pass them to the plotters.)

12 April 1951

Zeadquariers cabled the station:

"Equipment for

of Cater of station conversations has being pouched ..

Sumachtsa guts vica subject

Apr1l. Prior to passing equiment, advise las what scheme of

delivery proposed."

(Coment: The delivery scheme is explaired in coument on

the 9 April entry.)

13 April 1961

An extract. fran a note sent to Consul General Dearborn fron

*The three leica cameras, model M-1 the three carbines/,

with their accessories, should be in the proper hands in a day

or tro. ...:. With the small enot of equipment which they

are receiving they can only take action at a few specific places

and therefore the probebilities are considerably reduced and

the tize factor considerably extended accordingly.

With the

rest of the equisment (four Leicas, nodel 11-3) the sucnachine

gues] the possible places of action are multiplied and the lost

time greatly reduced."

14 April 1951

Extract frcu a note from SOCPATES

to DELTA

- 42 -

SECRET-EVES ONI!

---

## Page 44

DONET-DES 6027

¿Coasul General Dearco-7:

"Ihe thiee Lelua cameras and accessories are in the hands

of tine ones that will tire the pictures.

1n order to

do a batter and faster d0s.

tney need sor caseras

we

sent

He hope that the meso

two days ago misht belp in lash. in this regard."

IT April 1951

Note from YACUATE

and SOCRATES

to

CRISTOLE ¿ust word, us to the minyte in the matter of cameras:

says that with the 3 leica

cameras already delivered it is impossible to do we pholgragnic

job.

te needs to have the rest of the equiment (the 4M-3

Leicas) before he undertases the job. The ones already delivered

he sees

them as good complerentary equipment (defensive) but ke

needs

tire others

for the aggressive far of the job.

It is my

beller tage the ones already dallvered bave served a psychologlial

purpose also:

the men lavolved have alrays been in doubt the

good faith of your people in rash. Tneir feeling vas that in

several sonths all they nave obtained were promises.

How they

see that you actually sean cusiness. So, now, all they are doing

1s waiting for the reavy careras."

17 April 1961

Feadquarters cabled the station:

repeat not

passed to E

'mose important Lihe submechine guns/ 20t/5

ritaout additional Hqs zopcoral

PLease

advise wien equirent received and proposed schere and timing of

delivery."

tina to motel

- 43-

STONET-DIES OML7

5029:60

---

## Page 45

SEMET-DES ONLY

20 4pF1l 1961

Heedquarters cabled the station:

"Eumachine gus/ should be beld la statioa custody till

further notice and not repeas not be pascéd to l

Tals Egs deciston based on judgest that filling vacuu created

by. [assassination] nes b16õe= question iban ever vies unsettled

conditions in Carl'abeca area.

"Request station provice foll info sooness:

(e) Eave

the three carbies/ been delivered to

Letails on an alierate pian to deilver Leticaccise gis

(Coumer.t: It sight be noted that this cable sas. sent

just three days after the fallure uf the lidiry at the Bay of

Pigs.)

20. Apr1l 1961

Mote to DELIA Deartoz] fras YACIATE and SOCRATES:

"The officers that vere to do the photographic job are not

only disappointed but really angry at the refusal of the delivery

of the other Leicas.

Toey have decided to give up tee plan and

disperse, because they cannot take any more risks fo= nothing."

20 April 1961

Cable fron the station:

"Eubachire gunsT here 19 April with no entry problems

whatsoever. Excellent

be simplifled even nore.

seans station's plan can

Jaad the chief of station can sbare delivery

direct to drop. Request Egs advise when se may begir."

SEBRET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 46

9370/-273S CU7

(carent:: The precise nature of tals

Is not fursher clarified In the pile. Noras Gall,

m1t1ro in The Ney Republie, said Seat the deadoas dare salaped

to Hip; Derry lin foca cans.

21 April 1961

Cable from headquarters to the station:

further notice and not repeat not te passed to

Even not our no tell da tie susta e

22 April 1961

The station replied to headquarters! query of 20 April

regarding disposition of the three carötres:

to interrediary to holding until

bas given /the three carbines/

picks up ..

- 45 -

SEGMET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 47

14-00000 :

BBXNET-DUS OILY

(Corneat: Its "Inessedlary" apears to kare been

The significasce of this end ie security probleg it

posed will becase apparent fron ore of the later entries for

31 Pay.)

35 12-11 1901

"FOll from Dearborn: "I belleye politiul consequence of not

dellverina Evagabiro suno so sortis I plan d0 lashington rithin

rext ler days for discussion ith Departzent and CAS Egs!"

26 April 19ól

Cable fron, the station:

told Chief of Station... Astonio de la

Haza plans try assassinatica between 29 April and 2 May.

possibly not jet avare play.

No solid into orce:

members assassication effort but. General Juan Toas Diaz procas

-111 zid. Will use the three carbires plus whatever else can

get. De la Mazz asks add the sumachine guns if possible

30 April 1961

Data Penariod:

"Following Iron Dearbor: April 28

and

called on ze with 101l lafo:.

main mission

was pleed with me release subeschine guas they

believe in Don Rep and under my costrol.

Action group has 3

carbines,

829S.

# toó 12-stege shotguns i1th 120 rounds and sore suall

... • Action entails roadside anoush near San Cristocal

= 46-

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 48

and few adaiciocal reapons could ce important.

• I replied

I had to siracaine guns under =y control and that any U.S.

controlled itons wich sight be in Dom Rep could only be released

on specific authorization from lashington.

I pointed out that

since tse. ¿bree carcines were zade availasle Cuban Incident bad

occurred and hoped group could laterstand this is period of study

and assessent.

2 Nay 1951

Cable from the station:

.. suggest Hqs review decision not pass sucmachine

zuns. Deterination of group to go acead vita possibly inadequate

sane could spell end best pre-uS

force noy working toward the

overthror or the trujillo regiue."

2 jay 190l

Draft cable prepared at headguazters:

•. • Since 1t appears that_

group has comitted

Itself to action with or without additional support, coupled with

lact that the carbines already made available to them for personal

defense; station authorized pass sumachine guns to Por

their additional protection on their proposed endeavor. •

(Carpent: This cable vas never seat. It vas authenticated

by

Por J. C. Kingand Richard Bissell coordinated on

1t. It was forraried to the DECI for release. General Cabell

attached a handwritten busi-slip: "Return to: Chiel, W.H. Div.,

macted upon. ")

1-47-.

STORET- DIES ONLY

---

## Page 49

STONET-DIES ONLY

L Pay 1251

wAx, The Director, at a seeting of the Special Groug, reported a

net anti-trujillo plot, sajing that ve never zer if one of these

would work or not.

5 May 1951

Eeadguarters cabled she station:

"Begret delay but reiease lof the suizachine guns awaits

high level State Deparment decision."

8 May 1961

Feadquarters cabled the station:.

"State Departzent has disapproved passing [submachine guns.

16 May 1961

(Corment: There is an unsigred and alnost Incomprehensible

memorandun in the ELDEED flles. It 1s dated 17 May 1961 and conceras

a meeting witb

The transmittal dispatch makes

48

SEGRET-EVES GLY

---

## Page 50

SX0007-23 BLY

- 49 - 3100

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 51

18 key 1.951

There vas discussion at a Special Group reeting. of planniaz with

respect to the Domirican Republic. Chester 3odles said he thought

that an Internal State planning paper outlining an ambitious

paragilitary plan. (and alleging:Special Grouy approval) exceeded

the Special Group's action. Mr. Parrott's notes supported that

lapression. The folloring is an excerpt fron the minutes:

"General Cabell noted that the internal dissidents were

pressing fo: the release to them of certain all arms nor i

U.S. hands in the Dominican Republic. Ee Inquired wether the

feeliag of the Group romaired that those aras. should not be

passed.

The members shoved no inclisation to take a contrary

position at this tine." *

35 lay 1961

The agenda of the Special Group meeting for this date proposed

discussion of "further guidance to Dearborn re contacts with

aissidents." The minutes of the meeting, hovever, make no mention

of the subject.

27 May 1961

"Departuent from Dearborn: 'May 26 I had long talk with

rade no request for arms welch

Indicates group has accepted fast it must do with what it has.

- 50

# The sall arms to which General Cabell referred vere the submachie

guns, which vere poucked to the station but vere rever passed to the

dissidents.

SECRET-BIES ONLY

---

## Page 52

CANT-ES ONLY

His oaly staterent on this suojoct ins that group bas args but 1s

sozechat concerned iretser enorgh.

"Re stated action group planning overthror. Trujillo for

past 3 seeks and mergenting anti-communist pro-denortic

elerents of wich he senber rerains on drink final perforance

and deterined as ever.

Said he could give me no date because

a:tion depends wea Irujillo follows aralled patter which

not known in advance.. Group has arrangement for beirg informed

sufficiently in adrasse to get into assigned positions once

sigzal given.

He asked 1j United States prepared assist pro-

United States Dominicans quickly if they succeed overthrow

• Trujillo.

"I replied . . . sped with which assistance could be

given would be increased considerably 1i ve could have prior

Info on sucil subjects as timing, plans for action, personalities

Involved an identity of proposed junta. ... ... He

particiyants were not precured give thel: noes until afterward

and could not give tire for reasons stated earlier.

"Re timing

stressed event could happen any day. and

could in fact have happened 3 times in last 2 weeks except that

necessary juxtaposition of forces did not zaterialize."

29 Nay 1961

"For Dearborn fron State .

We must not fun risk

of U.S. association vith political assassination, since U.S.

as matter of general policy cannot condone assassination. Thi

last princital is oreriding and must prevail in doubtful

situation. . .

• You cust request and receive further

specifie Instructich for any specific covert activity. At the

present time ve are unable to transfer aras to dissidents. • . . '"

(Comment:

Both learsorn and the chief of statica sent

cables commenting on this guidanse cable. Their cables were filed

- 51

SECRET-S/S ONLY

---

## Page 53

10 Cludad Traillo on 30 May but were 205 received la Hashington

until the early moralag hours of 31 Maj--about eight hours

after the assassination too's place. Excerpts follod.)

31 Pay 1951

"State fron Dearcors .

• • If atteupt is made by U.S.

friends assassinate Tujillo there vill be accusations against

us and best we can do is see there is no proof. Greatest danger

point is

He was given suall number aras by

dissident agent to hold several dajs and has told several persons

dissidents obtained these items fras consulate. I

toid me

same and I have infored him this cannot. be true or I would know

and when he requested be supply arms through him for dissidents

I told his this impossible. . . ...

"Aseune [the 29 May policy cable fron State to Dearborg 1s

final word on present policy [

Joust be based.

This for practical purposes retreat from previous policy.

However Iqs aware extent to which U.S. Goverent already

associated with assassination.

preparation mist be vithdrawn now.

tried and not successful,

• 52 .

SEGRET -EIS ONLY

---

## Page 54

Dier

M.çnca: 12696207: 27220 33729

31 May 1951

1- 53 °

SEGNET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 55

3 June 1961

Memorandus for the record siged by J. D. Esterline, in part:

nove

Case Dificen

Assistant

should not retaa to Trujillo, Accord-

1nzlj,. an operatical immediate cole das seat to the station

the afternoch of 2 Jice issuing approprtate instructions."

9 June 1961

Memorandu for the record signed by J. C. King, subject:

"High-Level Meeting on Loninican Crisis" --In part:

"The reeting was beld at 1800 hours on 5 June 1961 in Room

7514 of tse Departent of State. Arong *bose present vere Vice

President Ijadoa jshnson, Secretary Kolasara, General Lemnitzer,

Under Secretary Bowles, Deputy lader Secretary Alexis Johnson,

Mr. Ed Murrod, Calei, USIA, Hr. irthur Sualesinger, Mr. Riccard

Goodirin, Mi. Ted Achilles, Mr. Wis Coert, Mr. Morales Carrion

and Mr. Jazeson.

"Vice President IjIdon Johnson referred to another messäge

fron Consul. Gereral Dearborn which vas in an alarmist tone as to

the possibility of implicating the United States in the delivery of

arms to the dissidents.

The Vice President then asked what

was the tiring and authority on the delivery of arms."

(Coment:

The vessage to waich Vice President Jonson.

referred is not in the ENDrED operational fIles. We did not

find'a copy in & search of Cable Secretariat archives. Jake

Esterline, who arpears to have ridden heri on post-assassination

planning, dues not recall naving beard of Vice President Jonson's

5%

SECRET -E/ES ONLY

---

## Page 56

0N7-D83 0A7

query. Ice recoid suzzesto that le ined of 1t but does not nos

remember. There is an unsizeed memoinän in toe INDEED tile

dated 6 June 19ól (the day efter the reeting at Itate), subject:

Views on Passage of Ares to Dosinican Dissidents."

The Lenorandun sumarizes State Departzen:-Consulate involvesent

in having weapons furnisred to the dissidents. The routing and

record sbeet attacised to the senorandu snous it was originated

by

Jwa3/ppaa, and as forried to C/O2S/va

(Esterline).. Esterline initialed tice routing and record sheet

and returned the memorand to

Tais suzzests to us .

that J. C. King, upon returing fron the reeting it State, assed.

Esterlise to have a sumary pulled together.

J. C. King remembers the meeting at voich the Vice President

asked about the delivery of arms. He does not nor recall the

specifle query. Re-reading his remorandur record of the neeting

leads him to believe that the Vice President's question vas

directed to one of the State representatives. Ee feels that,

11 1t had been directed to CIA, ke vould have made sention of

that fact in his record of the beeting.

A renorandus for ine record prepared by J. C: Fira of a Walse

House meeting on tce losinican crisis on 7 June 1961 takes no zention

....

of U.S. involverent in passing reapons to the assassins. The meeting

was canired by the President, and Vice President Johnson was present.

-57-8-

---

## Page 57

S0NZT-2/08 GOLV

The preceding, quite detailed, and eleost wholly docusentary

eccount of U.S: Goverment Involvement with persoas plotting

tne overttirod of Trujillo carries through the actual assassination:

Early in the report we explained way the coup that tas to folloi

the assassination never took place. Another essertial part of the

story is the roll-up of the assassination group and the discovery

of U.S. Involvement with them. The consulate cabled

_Jon 9 December 1961 tat tre i Decenter Issue of the

Dosinican newspaper La Macion carried a story

" . . . based on Huascar Tejeda Pinentel's statement

to Judge of Instruction that Wispy (Lorenzo A. Berry)

provided the caliber 30 M-1 Caraad autcratic carbizes used

to X121 TrujIllo. *

Interrogations of the captured assassins. The following sumary

1s drawn fran the FBI's report of its intervlews of Ortiz, the SIM

officer who headed the Investigation of the assassination.

Incediately after the slaying, all of the assassins assembled

at the house: of General Juan Toras Diaz. Dr. Robert Reid Cabral

was called to treat the cost seriously vounded assassin.

Sirice Dr. Reid

= 55 -

SEGRET - SVES OHL!

---

## Page 58

SURET-DIES DIF

1n being cailed as a prysician leamed the identicles of the ascassiss,

General Diaz said de could not ellow De. Reid to go free.. General

"Dias forced Dr. Peld to Zumtan refuge In Reid's house for four

of the assassins (Gereral Diaz, Antozio de la Naza, Salvador

Estrella, and Foberto Pastoriza). The otcer assassins went their

separate days.

Withla hours afver entering Dr. Reid's house, General Diaz

and his three comparisas tegan to mnic. (it might be noted here

that she assassins were so sure that the coum would follor and tzey

would all be national heroes that they had sade apsolutely know

plans for hiding or escape.) De la Maza called for Mrs. Reid and

it.

ordered Dr. Reid out of the room. De la Maza thereupon raped Mrs:

Rela 1n the presence of his cospasions. Pasioriza and Istrella vere

highly Incensed over the rape. Pastoriza left the house soon after

& near-fight and a draw-veapons confrontation. Estrella left after

• few hours. Diaz and de le Maza left later and were killed in a

gunfight while resisting arrest. Both Pastoriza and Estrells were

captured, tortured, and confessed. The folloring are excerpes from

tie FBI's report of its Interviews with Ortiz, the SIM investigator.

.. after Pastoriza Left General Juan Tomas Diaz corposed

a teiegran eddressed to President Ronulo Petancourt o? Venezuels,

which seid,

"We tho have killed Trujillo urgently need your help

in order to flee the country. Signed General Juan Isas Diaz.'

- 56 -

SACRET - 2/83 ONLY .

---

## Page 59

14-00000

330Z5-2RS 3787

"Reid refused to take the telegran on the basis that he

had already

1plicated hinsel? Erestely in tre plot tarough

no fault of bis

am and stated tat da trought Diaz ras trying

io heve him tizied oy asting biu to tate this teiegran to

With that de la laza cecare so incessed trat he

puncaes Reid and sushed him around and even vant so far as to

hold his revolver against the head of Reid's young son.

nen said that te plotters could vità tre cubire Reid famil.

if ther ilshed but tat be would sut dellier the telegran te

"... the source mentioned trat during tice interrogation

oi the conspirators ino mentioned that United States officials

vere involved,

tey vore all assed to identify the laitad States

officials, but nore of tre conspirators vere aole to icentify

trese officials o nase end mentioned only tat they vore biza

functiosarles of the United States Depazzent of State.

only nase of any ferican official wich vas disclosed durios

a 57 =

SECRET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 60

380:7-RIES DILY

these iuterrogations vas the nase Of American Couso1 5111 in

connection vica the tolegras that General Dias wanted to sead to

Betancourt.

is *

• Ene source roted that the telegras never reached

Consul Kill because Diaz tore it up after toe incident ia Dr.

Reid's bouse.

"(..

tice source conceated that the laterrogators

themselves did not celieve

tals time that the U.S. Department

of State was in any way involved with the biot.

Taey thought

the disclosures concerning the alleged involvement .

•• *as

simply a method by whica Amiasa induced General Ronan to give his

approval to the plot. ..... i: ras te interrogators opinion

at that timo that 1ê tho Morta Agericans bad beed involied in

this plot, the plot would bave seen nuch betser organized and

the coup would have succeeded.)

• . Of the latter part:? June 1961,

tre investigation

bad pretty veil established toe identities or all the individuals

Involved in the plot, many of vace had been arrested and

interrogated.

The only ones not accounted fo= vere Luis Aniana

Tio and Antonio Inbert Barreras.

As previously reiated, General

Juan Tenas Diaz, Antonio de la laza, and Lieuterant Arado

Garcia Guerrero vere killed nen resisting arest.

(At this

point the source related toat i? General Diaz, Lieut. Garcia,

de la Maza, Amiana, and Intert had been captured, and sade to

talk, 1t 1s certain that many sany sore prisosers would cave

been

taken.)

"As far as the source is avare, tice only individuals wo

were arrested as a result of the assassination of Trujillo, who

were prougat before the courts vere Tavares and General Roman.

As far as the source is aware,

no otcer individual arrested iy

connection ich this plot was brougat before anj Dominican

court.

- 53 -

309227-DES OV

- Eaten dis name paritanage an a

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SOMET -233 C7

To recap:

a. Assistant Secretary of State Rubotion told J. C. King

on 28 June 1960 that the U.S. Coverment was prepared to partici-

pate

In the overtoros of tce Trujillo regise to the extent of

providing a small nuncer of saiper rifles for the renoval of

sey trujillo people from the scene. General Cabell, as Actiag

DCI, 02 I July 2900 approved delivering la Sprizatield arles to

the Dosinican dissidents by air drop

The rifles

vere never delivered.

b.

On 10 February 1901 the chier of station cabled a

suggestion that one soall-size, nig-fire-pover weapon be

forwarded in each pouch. This suggestion was not acted upon.

- 59 -

---

## Page 62

8901

C.

On 17 March 1951,

& request

of consul General Dearbon fur tre pouching of three 38 caliber

Smith and lessor Special pistols for deilvery to key rembers

of the dissident group. Headquarters was preparing to pouch

the pistols but apparently did aot do so. There is no indication

1n the EMDEED operatical files that te pistols were actually

pouched. The request for pistols appears to have been overtaken

by a subsquent request lor susachine guns.

d. On 26 March 1961 the station cabled a request for

permission to pass three sent-automatic Mol carbines plus

ammunition to

The carbines and ammunition

vere in the consulate, baving been left by departed naval personnel.

The station requested that headquarters pouch magazines.

Head

quarters approved passing the carbines and ammunition and pouched"

the magazines. The cable authorizing passing the carbines vas

released by the DD/P (Bissell).

The station cabled that the

carbines vere passed to

on 7 April 1961.

of the dissidents, gave the carpines to

temporary safekeeping.

at the request

for

later recovered the carbices from

and gave them to Antosio de la Naza, who reportedly kept

- 60: =

SEMET-E/ES ONLY

---

## Page 63

them in the trunk of his autosobile.

It is probable that at least

one of the carotres was taken to the scene of the assassination

by de la Maza, but ie bave no eridence that Itias actually used

in the shooting.

Ortiz, the SIM lavestigator, told the FBI that

the assassins who were apprehended ard interrogated spoke only

of the flrliz of a saved-off shotgun, revolvers, and pistols.

e. While at headquarters for cossultations in early April

1961, Chief of Station

evidently provalled upon

headguarters. to pouch four M-3 submachine guns and ammunition

to the station. The submachine guns were priched and arrived

at the station on 19 April 1961. Headquarters cabled the stetion

on 17 April that the submachine guns were not to be passed to

the dissidents without additional headquarters approval.. Despite

repeated pleas fron the Chief of Station and from the Consul

General, Washtagton continued to refuse authorization to pass

them. We think it is safe to conclude that the subwachine guns

vere never passed to the dissidents.

A final, and rather sorry, footaote: We do not know the

motivations of men such as:

Aulama To, and Antonio Imbert. The SIM Interrogations of the plotters

it captured revealed that they were not greatly sotivated by a desire

61

SEGMET-SIES ONLY

---

## Page 64

3NST-5/83 OUC/

to live in a free and democratie repubile. Host of then were seeking

vengeance or persoral gain. Cenergi Pozaa, co cas to have larea over

and for a1 interlo governent, aditted that be had had no intention

of persitting iree elections. He had plaszed to establish himself

as the ney Doninican "stroggan" replasing Trujillo. Ceneral Juan

Tosas Diaz was bitter over barlag keen publicly disgraced by Trujillo

and then cashiered fron tice ary. Antonio de la Maza also had a

personai grudge.

His broser, Cesarlo, had been killed by tce

Trujillos to conceal his and thei- participation in the slaying

of Gerald Murphy. In the Galindez case. Most of the others also

had personal reasons for wisbing Trujillo dead.

STONET-DIES ONLY

---

