# 104-10098-10205

## Page 1

104-10098-10205

DISPATCH

•TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

INFO..

Chief, EE Divinion

FROM

Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

DIZTAG/LIBRIFORM/Operational

ACTION REQUIRED • REFÉRENCES

Monthly Report on Crech Embassy and Trade Mission in Mexico

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUOGE INDEXING

MICROFILAd

1. Attached hereto la LIBRIFORM'e monthly report on activities and

personnel of the Czech Embassy and Trade Minion in Mexico. Significant

traces on new contacts of Crech officials are reported below.

2. Page 2. Jorge Ramon JUAREZ. Probably identical with Jorge

Ramon JUAREZ Ruiz, born ca. 1919 in Spain, a leftist journaliat and poet,

in 1957 an official of the Inatituto Nacional de Belles Artes. See

2918,

• Sep (577

3. Page 10. Mr. CURI. Probably Identical with Jose CURI, Lebanese

citisen and father-in-law of Alfredo YABUR, Cuban Minister of Justice. Jobe

CURI has been of operational interent to thia Station because of his father-in-law.

4. Page ll. Pablo SALINAS. Possibly identical with Pablo SALINAS,

manager of Ferrer, Sandoval and Negroe Co., Ice and ship repair businese.

Allegedly in intelligence contact with Cuban Embassy.

5. Page 18. Engineer DOMINGUEZ. Probably identical with Hector

DOMINGUEZ. See HMMA-19253, 10 Jul 62. p. 116.

6. Page 30. Misa Dolores de la MORRA. Peobably Identical with

Dolores de la MORA, a Mexican woman from Guadalajara. When Adolfo LOPEZ

Mateos firat became President, MORA tried to get a job in his government, but

did not succesd. Since then, she has been violently "antl-government". (Source

LIENVOY). She has been in frequent contact with Ramon SINOBAS, First

Secretary of the Cuban Embasy, as well as the Cuban G-2 reaident in Melico.

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachments:•

Monthly Report (2 copion)

Dietribution:

2 - EE, w/atte

1 - WH, w/o atta

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22423

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

15637

DATE

7 November 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-8-4

---

