# 104-10161-10521

## Page 1

104-10161-10521

(When Filled In)

' RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION REQUEST FOR NAME CHECKS

OS FILE NUMBER

054 621

NC DCD/5

FROM: Industrial & Certification Branch, Clearance Division. Office of Security

TO : Domestic Collection Division, FO:

SUBJECT'S FULL NAME

STEERAS

OTHER NAMES USED INCLUDING MAIDEN, ALIASES, ETC.

Saa Francisco

Adrian

: 252)

Middle

Ficher

26 April 1977

25 liarch 1977

US CITIZEN

ALIEN

US

THIS NOTICE IS VALID THRU

April 1982

(Mo.-Yr.)

USE OF SUBJECT DURING THIS PERIOD BY OFFICES OTHER THAN DCD

(except those having prior interest) MUST BE COORDINATED WITH DCD.

1. Relerence is made to your request for name checks on the Subject person. If the identifying information furnished is erroneous in any

way, this division should be notified immediately. Checks based unon erroneous information are invalid.

2. The necessary checks have been completed and no pertinent information has been obtained except as noted below:

CITIZEN:

Passport data attached.

Subject was last favorably investigated in _

Denied Area Case: FBI Check was completed_

-. Other NAC's were completed

This office has no objection to Subject being used in accordance with DCI's memorandum dated 25 November 1961.

Summary of noteworthy information is attached for your consideration in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

ALIEN: This is not an approval for this alien's access to classified information.

FBI has no objection to contact with Subject.

Pertinent information has been developed, and is attached.

3. This advisory on investigative results is for contact purposes only and is not to be construed as a clearance of Subject person beyond that.

4. Coordination of prior interest:

No objection interposed by -

Please contact -

5. Remarks:

FR/3/SF

You are requested to coordinate this case with

, which office

may have current interest:

FOR DCD/HQS USE ONLY

.i.

Chief, Clearance Division, OS

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

FORM 2941

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622

7 - OS/CL

AFG. 10-73

---

