# 104-10072-10037

## Page 1

104-10072-10037 23

37.%

TOTAL COPIES

COME 3

ESSIFIEO MESSAGE

•SECRET

(When Filled boy

TON OF THE

ATING AND/OR INITALS - SEEN ST

GTRIT.T201 0711:8;

5" g

POHIBITES

TO

Mr. T

WH 8-

2221442 APR. 68

CITE

ADIE, DOP ESDO, FIEl

6150

FRECEDENCE

TROY E

185T2*

222A8 A88 6: 93853

IMMEDIATE

DIRECTOR

LOCAL PANAMANION

HORITIES

DELAINED

TWO AMERICANSA

WHO

TRAVELLED ROY SANTOSE TO PANAMA CITY UTA PANAMERICAN HIGHVAX-

ASSPORT TRATSBOLMAS TRANS LO

ACCORDINGZO PANAMANIAN AUTHORITIES THE VERE DIPPED OFF BLYCOSTA

RECANZAUTHORITIES THAT THE TUO AMERICANS WERE INVOLVEL IN THE ASSASSI

NATIQNOF DRE MARTIN LUTHER KING.

PANAMANIAN AUTHORITTES DO NOT KNO

9 19

BASIS FOR COSTA RICAN SUSPICIONS, AND LAITER HAVE NOT ANSWEREDEQUERIES

CAN YOUTHQUIRE FROM YOUR

CONTACTS AS REASON WHY COSTA RICANS

SUSPECT THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS?

ANSWER BYE IMNEDIATE PRECEDENCE CABLE

AMERICANS ARE UR TOM WOLMAN: DOB: IT JULY 1944, NEURYORK.

PASSPORL 0085474 ISSUED 29 JANUARY 1968.

HOME ADDRESS: 3O- LARRYNS

LANE PLEASANIVILLE, & NEW YORKE

HE VORK CRASSPORT RICTUSCIOUS TO MSELLA

TO KING ASSASSIN.)

DOUGLAS HARRY HULBARD, PASSPORT NO, 530526- AccORDInG zO

WOLMAN IS OUST A KID AND HULBARD IS ARFORMER SOLDIE

STATIONED IN PANAMA WHOSWAS RETURNING TO PANAMA TO MARRY SA GIRL, NE

MET - HERE.

THESPAIR WERE TRAVELING IN A CHEVROLET LICENSE PLATE, 23GH19

MOTOR NO 13-387-13-113701 NEITHER THE YEAR OF THE AUTO NOR THE STAT

OF ISSUANCE OF THE LICENSE PLATE WERESNOTED IN THE LIAISON REPORT.

I SECRET. COMM

043%

Sec Dad

---

## Page 2

14-00000

9 3

METAPUT

WANT NOTIFINO

SECRET

DANc

PAGEST.WOY

GLOSE CRE

ACCORDING TO VOLMAN S PASSPORT HE ENTERED ANDE DEPARTED SEL SALVADOR

AND HONDURAS ON 17 APRIL,

CARAGUA AS APRIL AND PASO DE CANDA PANAMA

NOT EVIDENCE CERON PASSPORT THAT VOLMAN TRATSIITED

COSTA RICA:

SECRET

4.31

SECRET

---

