# 104-10169-10261

## Page 1

104-10169-10261

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

:: Met d!

пом !

ACTON E

NO

31 MAR 61 21137

BELL 15

COP, ADOP/A, DPD d, HO 3, OC 6, BELL S/C

OPERATIJNAL IMMEDIATE

lie 1048

OP IN BELL INTO OFIN MADD QUAT CITE VAVE 5099--

MZIP ANDIP-J

REF A.

YAVE 3999 (100202),

B. VAVE 198RN,N A124

C. VIVE 3810 (1N0 672)

1.. THE FOLLOWING MSO VAS RECEIVED VIA ANDIPIS CONAGE "NUYER

IS TANDI, SITUATION CORAZON DE LEON" DESPERATE. URGE AIR DROPS.

VITH HIM 980 MEN. THEY MAINTAIN SAME MARXS IN THE SAME PLACE.

UNTIL NOW NOTHING HAS BEEN RECEIVED. MORENO:

04 2. ANDIP/S STATES THAT "CORAZON DE LEON" IS THE WAR NAHE OF

THIS IS THE SAME GROUP FOR WHOM A/S

REQUESTED AND AIR DROP ON 27 FEB PER PARA A REF A. ASSUMING

THAT

HAS ONLY HALF THE NUMBER MEN HE SAYS HE HAS THIS IS

A SIZEABLE INSURGENT FORCA FOR ORIENTE IT IT CAN BE SUPPLIED AND

DIRECTED SECURELY.

A SIMILAR MSQ TO A/S URGENTLY REQUESTING AN AIR DROP : OÑ

04

VAS JUST RECEIVED FRON AMICE-1DO MILL FORVARD BY. SEPARATE

CABLE®

*: REZAINZING THE DANGER OF USING AIS COMMO TO ARRANGE AN

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER SHAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMINITIO.

3/BR

---

## Page 2

AIR DROP, NAVE BELIEVES THE RISK IS JUSIFISO IN VIEN TILE ELEMENT

AND IMPENDING OPNS WHOSE SUCCESS VILL DEPEND UPON INE ACTIVE

PARTICIPATION OF AS MANY ARMED INSURGENT GROUPS'AS POSSIBLE TO

DISRUPT POSSIBLE GOC COUNTER ACTION. BELIEVE RISK VILL BE

MINIMIZED USING A/S COMMO OR JANOPE IN THAT ME VILL ONLY MENTION

: DATE OF DROP AND VAR NAME GUEVARA AS DETAILS ARE SANE AS DROP

REQUESTED PER PARA A REF A.. ASSUMINO THAT GOC WILL INTERCEPT

HAS AIR DROP NSE ALL THEY VILL KNOW IS THAT SOME TYPE OF ON VILL

TAXI PLACE ON A PARTICULAR DATE TO CORAZON DE LEON VAUS VILI HAVE

KIM CLEAR HIS MSO PRIOR TO TRANSHISSION AS ADDITIONAL CHECK.

NS RAS ALREADY TOLD "CORAZON DE LEON VIA JUHOPE THAT "HE VILL

BIVE HIM AID NOT TO VORRY."

So: WAVE SUGGESTS AN INITIAL DROP OF 10B MAN PACK PER PARA 8,

REF A. IS THIS SUCCESSEUL VILL ARRANGE ADDITION, SUPPORT THROUGH

OTHER XUBARK RADOPS EXPECTED BE AVAILABLE NEAR FUTURE®

6o DI LOCATED SHEET 5276 ROMAN I1, "IMIAS, " GRID

COORDS

153267 LIGHTS SIGS VILL BE FIVE BONFIRES, FIVE METERS APART,

ACROSS THE VIND TO BE LIGHTED FROM MED TO 0838 HOURS LST ON THE

APPOINTED DAY• A/S STATES MUST HAVE FIVE DAYS NOTICE BEFORE

DATE OF DROP• FIVE DAYS NOTICE MAY NOTHBE NECESSARY IF WASHAM

PASSES ISO TO

GROUP.

IF USE OT AIS COMMO CONSIDERED TOO INSECURE AND TIME VILL

ALLOW, SUGGEST ATTEMPT ARRANGE SUPPORT FOR

GROUP VIA

NACHAN, RADOP FOR DRE GROUP, LOCATED IN SIERRA MAESTRA. MSE

SHOULD BE PASSED TO VAGNAN OPIM TO DETERMINE TOLLOWINGS

A.

VAGHAN '& LOCATION

SECHET.

ACPADOUET IN BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIEITEO

2BA

---

## Page 3

WE 5099

8 .

DOES HE XHON OR CAN DETERMINE VHEREABOUTS AND SIZE OF

GROUP

C• VILL THE TVO BROUPS COOPERATE VITH EACH OTHER:

DO CAN VAGHAN SECURELY WAXE CONTACT WITH

_AND PASS

HIN A uSE

.. TO NOW MUCH TIME VILL IT TANI DELIVER A ISE TO

& SINCE DRE GROUP VHICH A/S CLAINS PRESENTLY COOPERATING IN

HAVA BELIIVE THEY WILL VORX TOGETHER IN ORIENTE.

9. AS STATLI HE STILL PLANNING 30 TON SEA DROP PER RIT GO

RECEPTION GROUP VILL BE

HOVEVER, UNLESS THEY CAN GET

AN AIR DROP OF ARMS PRIOR TO THI TIME OF THE SEA DROP THEY VILL

NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT ARMED MEN TO SEAL OTT THI BEACH WHERE THE

ARMS WILL BE BROUGHT ASHORE•

1B. PLS ADVISE SOONEST.

ED J' MESSAGE

REPROQUET ICH BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED

Ч/BR

---

