# 104-10105-10044

## Page 1

104-10105-1004)

SEN

& WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AVI

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

TTOM

I SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

1

Mr. John Greaney

2

OGC 7 D 07

3

HUBE BXIS Creer

VITI

5

5 Cleared of Plotting

6

To Import Marijuana

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURR

MIAMI, Sept.

4 (AP) A federal

jury has cleared five men of charges

of plotting to import tons of marijuana

into the United States.'

REPARE REPLY

File

§COMMENDATIO

ETURN

IGNATURE

Cleared were arms dealer Mitchell

WerBell Ill of Atlanta; William Bell,

Remarks:

a Raleigh, N.C., businessman; Gerald

Cụnninghạm, a Deerfield Beach, Fla.

arms, dealer; John Nardi, a Cleveland

, Teamsters union official, and Morton

Franklin, a Cleveland financier. Their

trial lasted two weeks.

Defense attorneys argued that their

5

clients had been enticed into the

conspiracy by Drug Enforcement Ad.

ministration agents rather than by

their own intent.

It is from

I double-

1 to locate it.

Prosecutor Karen Atkinson admitted

in final arguments that-DEA agents

had enticed the defendants.

Sept: 74- WASH POST.

•Yopkins

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

× 9127

горм но. 237

Use previous editions

'CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

41999

DATE

2-9.26

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEN

UNC'

THECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AYE

CONFIDENTIAL

••ID

TTOM

SECRET

TO

2

3

NAME A/

Mr. John ste

OGC 7

TUBF

'злу злок

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

FILE

INFORMATION

File

REPARE REPLY

COMMENDATION

ETURN

SIGNATURE

Hercell

John -

My alert chief,

clipped this item. He said it is from

5 Sept 76 Washington Post. I double-

checked that issue but failed to locate it.

Perhaps I overlooked it.

Chris Hopkins

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

x 9127

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

FORM NO. 237

Use previous editions

DATE

212-274

---

