# 104-10186-10174

## Page 1

104-10186-10174

MONTERORT

NORMA MONIE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

We 1864: 181 10100-0 08 1

KEI

NO FORN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBIECE

Celse D.miarag Republi

i.

Ritach Framelste TAVERAS Rusario

REPORT;NO.

CS C/ 310/0112.1805

DATE, DISTR

16 March 1965

NO PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INDO.

PLACE. A

¡ D'AIE ACO.

SCURCE:

1004÷

Wastingler, N.C.

196.4

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INIÓRMATION, SOURCE GRAS

HELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL DF.LOMTENI

Mirimer. Cuban IS officer who servod wil the Cobel less

Heater are rS Comment:

merided by the source id inlides supplause!

• I, mada a frena the secords of this Agoroy.

les megard that the addresses toke to degree: ratho

111: / medion0d to the personal rep ris d.

cr1a6 and this Agency.

RETURN TO CLA

Rasteround Use Only

Do vot Reproduce

3. 81148

1. Soore idertified a pholgraph m male. fo rosic Tarrins

As i member of the APCA, 'TAVERAS wils regardly sei!

!. Caba i secure a scholarship in the Unton el Sovaet Sorrilist

He palla s. (USSR).

(However, sourer jaders that sober: 11s

I lessing did rel materialize, TAVERAS wes pulari do puss:

raine program instead. Soure bries id TAVERAS

was sill jr Cuba at the time he leti.

Meadoeters Comment

1. Retail Frer Isco ('Fall", TAVERAS Roguro, uto say borro

Mort 1938, was elected sour lery de publised prop egardien

ine APCJ Contral Exccutive Commitre 1: December 1962. -

1:

sorder tatle when he left the Dumined: Kopublic am 13 Septembor

19ti der Mexiro un a Spansi, ship, on poste do the Sovie?

SP.CRET

NO FOR' DISSEMI

MarY

"CINCSO A" TENS

tita

made and boy?

MNFORMATION REPORIY

CL R62-31

CLILA

PTY

DIR- 1722

HIT 18

PAT

ISCI. 21: 1.8179-R3

757

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FORT DISSEM:

Mugo TOYo Vangis. and Norce villons BOTELLO prera le

ISer TSCS-3/558. 654). Marly devembr 1903,

Cotater a re APC Oreported that, TAVERAS, DURAN. TOYOS;

and BOTELLO sore then in Moscou studs my coona

(5e (S-3 565.960): howrver, In carly Degember 1963 anther

Burce repurted at TAVERAS, DURAN nOYOS, and BOTELLO

were thon i. Cuta and did not plan to go te the Soviet Unton as ties

were unable to obtain the scholarships either before thes loft for

Culs i sirce they liad been in Cuha, (Sco GS= 568, 846)- 18

Hie rober 1964, BOTELLO SAd MUI TAVERAS Jd Tee

cohu as d mémber of his traing aroup alich hud series maths

ol arter praining, and that he expes te Ta VERAS to ritard

tlie Dominan Républic soon, using d fale pasáport de ceter. che

contrs: (ser TDCS-314:04551-64) Un 12 Decenter 1964. DURAN

said thar TALERAS returned to the Dominican Republic Prom Cuba

oui of abiur 12 December 1964, probably usias a false passpore

(Ste CS-318 (0014-65).

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

