# 104-10180-10074

## Page 1

104-10180-10074

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Arto SECRET

PSTURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

** Do Not Fieproduce

ROUTSO

• 5:

• DIOSTOR

FROM I SANTO

ACRON. WH8

DONJAGO

sual

PICS

$S

FEES

SB

E CRET & 41732Z

DIR WAVE CITE SDON 3289 (SARYOCK ACTING)

do PHILIP R. NICOTRA SAN 33 FOOT SPEED LAUNCH

"ARLIN" FRO MIANI AT LA ROXANA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ON

31 JULY. IT PUERED BY THO CHRYSLER ENGINES, EGUIPPED

WITH RADAR, AND LOADINS ENOUS FOOD AND GASOLINE FOR THO

TO THREE WEEK TRIP. REGISIRATION NUMBER ILLEGIBLE. GREN

KENSER SAID BOAT RECENTLY PURCHASED BY AIR FORCE GENERAL

LUNA AND IT BEING DELIVERED TO HIM IN SDOM, BUT SDOM ONLY

60 MILES FROM LA ROMAÑA IHUS LARGE AMOUNIS FOOD AND FUEL

NOT NEEDED FOR TRIP. FLUVIO MEMLA, DOMINICAN ACQUAINIANCE

OF NICOTRA, SAID HAD SEEN SAVE BOAT IN PUERTO PLATA 29 JULY

AND THAT CREW MEMBERS ALL CUBAN.

2. [ENGEN-I CIDEND ASSED STRACKER 3 AUGEST IF HE AWARE EXTENT

CUSAN ACTIVITIES DEPREP, STRACKER ANSWERED THAT HE XIN

SONETHING WAS UP BUT HAD NOT ESWESTIGATED DETAILS. ENGEi-1

SAID AIR FORCE AND NAVY ASLPISS ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS KERS AND

HAD SEEN GIVEN "GREEN LIGHT" TO DO SO. WHEN STRACKER ASKED

IS GREEN LAGNI CADE ROS ENJOZ:-12. CUREM-I SALDEMOTH-12

* SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET. 57 142056PACE 2

NO DEE ASKED TO KEEP HIS EYES CLOSED TO WHAT WENT OX3

THAT GILEN LIGHT MAD CONS FROM UP NORTH, AND FIDEL SCULO

5E IN TROUBLE THIS YEAR BECAUSE IMERE WOULD BE MANY RAIDS

HANDLED IN SUCH A MANNER THAT NO ON AFOULD PROVE WHO

GENERATED THEN. ME THEN SPOKE KNOWINGL: OF RECENI ATTAGKS

CARRIED OUT IN CUBA AND OF MANOLO RAY'S TRAVELLING AROUND

CARIBBEAN. THINKS RAY MAY BE CONDING HERE SOON. AGREED

TO GIVE MORE DETAILS IN FUTURE REPORTS IF STATION INTERESTED.

3O IT APPARENT THAT MS, AT LEAST, BELIEVES ODYOKE

MAS ARRANGED FOR DOMINICAN MILITARY SUPPORT OF CUBAN EXILES

AND IS PLANNING EXTENSIVE RAIDING FROM DOMINICAN RASES THIS YEAR.

4. PLS INVESTIGATE REPORTED SALE OF MARLIN TO GEN. LUNA.

INDEX.

SECR

E T

•.....

not come 410

sire

I SECRET VAR

---

## Page 3

iSS:RED A:55/62

SECRET

.

TO

• DIRECIOR

ком, . ::"

ACTION, .:"":

""".

SECRET 441730Z

WAVE IANO DIA CITE SDO: 329: ESTiKYOGS ACTINGO

REF: SiDON 3269(110 42 G:500)

06.08

10k4275g

ECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHES THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROPANICO

Copy No.

---

