# 104-10150-10038

## Page 1

[104-10150-10038

SC-02164-58

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nor Reproduce

24L

Su=22 dE Initial Missions

In the period fron 20 June to 10 July 1956 the Soviet Bloc zir defense

system ias subjected to eight penetrations of an unprecedented nature, sever

2n6 rithin a period of only eight days. It rust be remembered that

arovides the only basis of judging the performance of the Soviet

However,

some tentative conclusions nay be drain fron

thes: initial flights and these are indicated as follows:

In spite of the fact that these missions cone as z surprise,

none of them went undetected.

This in clear evidence that tacir

coverage extends abovel

24

24

3100

- 23 -

TOP SECRET - EIDER-24955

---

## Page 2

S0-02164-59

2. Dy 5 July 1956, the fourth fligat, the USS? was aware

of the purpose of the missions and vere taking counter action.

One positive action was the standdown of civil flights mile the

mission aircraft was over the USSR, and a second action which is

believed related is the moving of MIG-19 aircraft inio East

Germany and Poland on 7 July 1955. Also MIG-19's were noved

into Hungary at about this time.

3. Ibe performance of the Soviet systen on the 5 July mission,

2014,

was indeed curious.

While the action evident frcal

is not clear an explanation which appears to I'it the known facts

is ofiered as follows: As a, result of the previous missions, the

Soviets had concluded the essential facts concerning the missions,

I.e., that they were for reconnaissance, that they flew abovelfes

feet, and that a penetration as deep as loscow was possible.

probably surrised tinat the 5 July mission was headed for Moscow when

the track appeared on a northeasterly heading. The loss of the

4. By 9 July 1956, in addition to the evident recognition or

the great height of the mission flights,

tracking was better and

in general the performance of the waring system was much improved.

5. The next day, 10 July 1956,

99

6. The first eight missions proved that the air defense warning

systen is deployed in depth.

= 21 =

TOP SECRET - EIDER- CHESS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SC-02164-58

7. Confusion and track loss seemed to be related to the 99

8.

The question of radars for heisht finding.

→ 25 -

TOP SECRET - EIDER- CHESS

.c".".

---

