# 104-10171-10001

## Page 1

104-10171-10001

DISPATCH

SECRET

SBOCISSUAIG

Ar Ter ide

Chics, Special Affairo Stall

XXX

-e 826 0-1100D

8e 58

Chios of BLation, JUKAVE. E/-:

¡DnPIE, Operational

SKATIOnS. On DHE Penetration by COC Authorieles

FY!

ACHATEA L.

The sullomins do a ropore subalited in late Juno by

Bel turcher

Duer to ats lack of dutatlo, an artempo vas mado to

inturmation and/or corroboration, bur to no avail

fofort daled Havand, 17 April 03, came throuch

-a rocont. arrital fron Cuba

cho fe artilhares srth the

00

Juventus Anticisanta Ravosucloparla a pare of the CAlCiHAN

UBN88.8108800888 TintA NOVeTned5

Bol the Information from

Madona and ale claime To hare recolvud at tron

an the Uruguayan Embansy in

= 06

Poime malos de lhe PHe Supuly Sector underercuna.

The channel

- 05

2.

Jerusa Cuba não mudo lo de che Uruguasan ysplomage pouch

The roparen wearco that

Nicardo "Onuendo

•AL.FOYSO VIllalva

•enra sido bugns) nho lives at

grin, aume 23 guara ele pode larana de entre of sho

"Qquendo" and it

"Monges"

ge: 116: 8840881185

de por Cuban authorttles

austroyed the bre underground by

..", JUDAIT, tracer on the aboro are as followe:

guerra, "¿nuendo ocurd us Nicardo ALFONSO Villalva or his nom du

la. No record of

106.

"Moneo" la the non do quorro of Jorge

XaNFord Brinkuer.

apaneto la sobretang a confessod forrer collavurator with

Identalying Information on

Mell a May 11, Pinar del RiO, Subject de Casos Or Interest to

Cl Aransl.

AC CC.90

ВИ МУРО 51

05

40: 89

NISTRINITION

I 6112e8, SAS

..d

s milite.

12 AUGUST G8

UFGA-10019

e: Pra 87

++18-499-4613

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

8/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

DISPATEA

#7 4207.

UFGA- 10619

cai:16

lis identical to

mentoned in WAVE-9701,

l4 June. id,

as one of the Uruguayan

assires ho sas denled entry

Into PUPRINE. because of derogatory

inforcation provided by Cuban

Sere Tron Hoy, 1946 Proble 2050, as holding provincial

Is noted in 06

and sundelpal commitice

posts in the PSP in Lis Villas, Clego de Avil,

Ranchuclo, San Juan.anu San Fernando de Camarones, Cuba. Other entries

pie a possible Connuñist..

aka ilector from an AMMOO-l report

dated June

902 doseribed hin as Provincini Coordinator of the MRF

woring

in the H.. Upman Cigar factory and rosiding on Justicia St.,

Havana.

EXD OF DISPATCH

4 0b

C.i. Colin

A: Cubo:

anciand a Colo.

Le in de perizin fors

18/BR

$9g

PASTOVA EDITION.

CLAGSINCATION

SEC RFT

PACE AR

2

---

