# 104-10132-10009

## Page 1

104-10132-1000g]

2-6:

=*.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

TO

FROM

Mo

D. SILEVENS

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE

(Address Book)

23 January 1964

1. Reference 1s made to names in OSWALD's address book which

are furnished in an FRI memorandum of 31 December 1963, which lists

portions of the address boak found among OSWALD's personal affects at

the time of his arrest in Dallas.

2. The name: !

"Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall

522 Browder

RI 1-5501"

appears on page 21 of the address book and on page 45 the name appears

again as:

"Jaggers-Chtles-Stovall

Topograhy

522 Browder

RI 1-5501

Micro dots"

(these names appear on pages

10 and 16 of the FBI report of 31 December

1963).

Engineers, Alburquerque, New Mexico, who owned a rooming house in

Alburquerque and who allegedly made contacts with persons associated with

the military services in order to obtain Information for espionage purposes.

Document Number

1305-472

for FOlA Review on

MAR 1977

CRORET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

..27

- 2-

4. BLUs' 1s of Interest In the case of

PH II, and regarding whom Security furnished Information to the Chief,

Special Security Clearance Center of 17 April 1963.

signed a

"memorandun of understanding" with CIA on 13 May 1963.

in BITINER's rooming house from 25 May 1958 to 1 July 1958, during

which time he knew BITINER socially as well as In his landlord capacity;

and he was a close friend of BITINER's nephew, Al SCALA, whom he continued

So The firm of Jaggars, Chiles & Stovall, Inc. came Into the

picture because on ll August 1957 a telephone call was made to the Dallas

telephone number of Jaggars, Chiles & Stovall, Inc. (RI 1-5501) from the

Albur querque, New Mexico, residence of John Earl SHERMAN and Katherine

SHERMAN, at 1601 Granite, N. W. Katherine SHERMAN was a friend of BIlINER

and during 1955/1956 had litred in the rooming house in Alburquerque

which was owned by BITINER. ' According to her statements to the FBI 1a

about December 1958, she left BITINER's rooming house in July 1956; and

Immediately thereafter married John SHERMAN and from that time unt1l

July 1958 saw BITTNER only once. In July 1958, when she again ran into

BITINER, she was separated from John SHERMAN and began to date BITINER

regularly.

She admitted that she had an extremely close relationship

with BIlINER and he had visited her at her home at 1601 Granite, N. W.,

Alburquerque, (from which address the call to Jaggars, Chiles & Stovall,

Inc. was made on I1 August 1957).

6. As of August 1957, Katherine SHERMAN was employed in the

Office of Information Services, Kirtland Air Force Base, Where she hac

been granted & SECRET clearance on 28 December 1955. Her husband, John

SHERMAN, was employed by lytle Engineering Company, a firm In Alburquerque

which was working on contracts for the Armed Forces-in connection witt

which he had access to classified information.

(4/J0

---

## Page 3

14-00000

- 3 -

8. Jaggars, Chiles & Stovall, Inc., 522 Browder Street,

Dallas, 1s principally & type setting company dealing with matters

Involving topography and maps.

The firm does (or in 1957 was doing)

confidential work for Chance Vought Air Craft, Dallas, and for other

national defense establishments.

M. De. S'LEVENS

S-GHET

---

