# 104-10111-10005

## Page 1

104-10111-10005

438 T2

11 Cetober 1960

FILE NO.

DATE

-

SYNOPSIS

A postal facility (Fost Office Box

Jeneral Post Office, Philadelphia 1, Fennsylvania

ras established at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1r

he names DANJEL and of MILDREI

ustmaster a

° Pennsylvania, was alerted to

the fact that if mail should arrive for DANIEL and

or MILDRED

It should be forwarded to their

Fost Office Box at Philadelphia.

Householder requested to accept mail In

the name of MILDRED

26800

10 1125

REPORT NO..

120g

---

## Page 2

CASE NO. 43872

11 October 1960

GENERAL:

At Philadelphia, Fennsylvania

On 10 October 1950, Confidential Infornant MI-36 was

Interviewed on the premises of the General rost Office at 30th

and Market Streets. He made arrangements to open a rost office

box ($4.50 quarterly fee) in the names of DANIEL and or MILDRED

the Iscility to be utilized is identified as: fost

Office Box

*General Post Office, Fhiladelphia 1, Pennsylvania®

With respect to the written application for the facility, no

references were required and no residence or business address was

listed for the

80•

At

Pennsylvania

06

On 11 October 1960,

, Fostmaster, was inter-

viewed on the premises of the

Post Office at the intersection of

Center and North 7th Streets. This informant was alerted to the

fact that if any mail should arrive for DANIEL and or MILDiED

It should be forwarded to Fost Office Boxl

100

General fost office, ihiladelphia 1, Pennsylvanta. MR.

was

very cooperative and

stated that he would take the necessary of

action to insure that any items would be forwarded as requested.

He declared that he would have to advise the Assistant Postmaster,

of the request to make sure of proper handling.

06

As a matter of general'intérest, the current telephone

diroctory for the village of

in the name

and MP6

does not contain a listing

who descrobed himself as a

resident here all of his life,

brought out that he does not

recall anyone with the surname

ever residing here.

At New York, New York

On 1U October 1960 a householder was requested to

accept mail addressed to MILDRID

WPT, Jr./wet

-1--

---

