# 104-10178-10164

## Page 1

49101-82101-701

RESENSITIZED:

CLASSITICATION

TO

FROM . I

= 15-11

3-50 (Pa71-24 Xandro)

te soren tocies rectioned 1a ierance.

Distribuilong

Chrono 7

Sub 906+1

SAE TO 51-28A

KIRSE

CUASSIFICATION

3/506

22

5100

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OURSE PLE

---

## Page 2

Кінів

airavo los aila Due i, was turo o Septestor 1928 in Sela tica, Ponile.

We fandeed paron lercary krades angryanastin in Ploriave Be was s

lora he servedas a trustek in

inzur ind valeik iri where ne

dusertes on' 6 lay 15510 in comary mich to

other trutoralo, Stefaa PolIO, and Seas MAll!;: Ivan ant Peter laPUlois

Potus and doris PeLlioN; ho oscaned en ureece and surrendered to che treek

purportidea on 21 dele 12510

He do presently livan: in laition care, drove

Msbece mas interrogand by illuTiN, Gintid, Draid Incarrogaion Center,

61S64, UnaP, and inSP/S.

Itis

stoty followss

30i

dose iMoni,, 10a3 miriN, both were planning to deser intr unit and

several ochor Trudorals troi lo ascape to Dertor bro

int-s i was transferred so Chr Salcik Tratoral unit, tens

with KillN, wich vey heciue acquainted rach Stelin PSLINNOV, who had

planed to escape lu ince so.

PiLT"Ur was countire on the help or hia.

brulinin-lin, Vasil lit aV, d too in Chos irfutry Be Ion: in Florlio,

since diancy ana Pillar al this joint vere unaile

& sie escape so Mirkeys ley socided to soin taLlicY and a

10 Ureco, particularly since all threr sere tron the liovlit area.

in shutt the cool ul april liliV Incoros Stolan PilT Nor brat be hai fount.

a, Hide xis0 woult lake nun so vreece if Striar, could ariie In Flordir by

7 ng 1952.

on ! Jay dinin0", Stafa: 1514406. aid Spas MIXT! loft tair unito Thay

tracolled in 10o. to vamo, and tric varu so Mordio by lato, ariting

7 day wither läcident.

mey wore not by vaull Laayoy and lie wite, laria

narOV took then taroslately lo a little nade coar ile village Solastice

did primoni to ser. a linenü of hlo with luca al armant that sam alche.

The sloval ic: mcogison nas itsubirs:ood ani no contact was made.

6.

follimias so mine the

entire rep mund to Plordiv in sarct. or fac11

Hey sun? her unt

2.Ю.7C%

1: , a mail as Stefan's vcio, Boris

•ll lott era lately

tarito.

2980 D2JN0% and Boris FELICI

Tite: Sophintes toa

a11laço tartare view.

in riche

Trinid"dis

ma.T:

That night, all

trun foss and

---

## Page 3

in covetina,

and neg neta

them in thinooraedon.or.

in. v: 4471.÷

1529

Se? 89325176

Markovo, whore Vaoll Innit! and nie mii, mario, mim mattan: jor mo

Potur MiNOID" and Iran Todorr Strati un ed te tradovake to duan shedi

vorjand incroad of lenin

40ut0Cr.

was plannin; tu a ganiao i coriani in us

that the tid urs

should fort. the-nuclous. The

Trudoraka Miuse: and lisisted on, juan:

and Lazarov privaaod lo linda clide.

% Durtn the 11, 12, and 13 ay she Tridorako re-arolo Mola bouta dy

trixinelvon without food in: Ciri decicod 1 11. 7& Pinidir and contarit

Storin's father, Petur FilTituV, do Ircy had 20:9 faltn 1i LiariDio Un

Us lay Dórts FiLiKOr, brouiht then iool ani opterid res to return io cola:

10.

un 16 May Ivan NIXCIOY brought ne Iller Millai "e sola lucila nio would"

take the Trudovaka to the ic-jani.

he Trutivika having Joet hope of escaping

to urocco had agrood lo join the liorjent.

following der did not show un, ard 1' was lured laver that re had beon

arrestede

110

On 19 Lay DAlJA'O% and Stalan MEITiKU! runt again to Plovilv ani me: troil

That; again probised is fin! suits

for sroct ai? ordore l the

Trudovaka to retum

to Gola 40_118.

news inat 46L11 LAZARY had been arruded on 14 dig and on 26ja lie milo,

Maria, had been arrusted.

He diso soli thur rha: una Staton Suicil, ai

layer, frem Softa had arrived in Plovalu and mished to join tim Trusovaks.

1r. their flight to üreece.

Pour iTh i saw sOn SECUriLY Ayente girre1 linc

the laryor and further contact was impossible.

12

Prom 26 lay to 6 June the Prudovaks anained In sola Milla or other pleces

In the veinity and in vandering amund the area their pregance bocare kren

to the inhabltante.

13.

On 1 Juno Borla PLITINOY miroed ten to co to larkovo and i'de in Iva

NIKOLOV'S place where fe nued te oacior

to i rovide tren dith 100.

¡same evening they munt to NiCIot's place anl he syplained to thur. "ha? lts

brother, Patur, had been arrestad, dió they lial decided it asis l vii.

The NIKOLOYS were 4y be joured by tie brochero PItill, more

tanises Maid takins

placed under police survalllanca.

to sola logle and cold to Trulovaks til his brotner, focur,

did not

connider the situation completely cunproslood and was reluctant to turn the

a•sape partle

Ka92

---

## Page 4

Zvezdete

lho

C".

12 mine

54748439

for preece.

Balevor on de June near tie rillab

really vor in the Pier toss voi

An.123E

ubtara ford Oa lo, 25 and

my were in the reinty of the villas.

sukto, 17 dure near Saales, unl

on l8 Jun near the ureel border. on 19 dund they cropeed into neere

and on 21: surrendored to the greekso

15•

Triformant stases the VauLI LAZiTOV 1s Era tr

now to him, Izi Di was a lostonnathi unul 32210 he mas jerocutes ly

the rectme and spent pose tim in prison.

LAZAHOU foined tha Comrunist: louth. Orgintiation an: apparently had a

•succiniful career in the "aciero" section. Mon the help of a relative,

Nikoltaa DO:OVA, in Old cosmunise, LAzi!D: HAs promotos to No In tie a.

129269

1.16.

Subject states he Dever, sam tha Gorjand rebelo, lut he ofter beand as le

and hid listerod lo the jorjant radio callon bridicate. On 20 Nay 1552

Informait atates hom un aeroplana cruisir, 1n 1n ine area o. l Miliao

Fordinandovo, Plovilli, whica nus allegally allackod by the iorjarles

LAZARY told the Trudovaks that the sorjanis had three groups, one each in

Plondio, Slíven an So fla aresa.

In Che villag Bolastles lion were shour 125) Inhabitanto bul entato

20 were communists.

Informant iid not knon ai any anti-communig. arcaraaid n

In tho village.

16.

Informant did not know the brothers NIKOTCY prevlously, He recures iMes 1s

soul nationalista, arersut se and 10n05..

le neror arapoctod then di di iladiair.

with the Stata Socurity and bell ros toy la! maple opportunity to ari on

we over to the Millela 11 Cha NIMloVS were so inclinad.

19%.

Incomant also d11 not knor Fetur and Peris PITSOVo. Ho. induks theg ar

buth antI-comunds, and tharough an oralia:se

HELTEROV 10 the exuborant typo, buasting and not very seriors, 301b Partnis

blamed LAZAWV for all shir trouble while toy more in tulgaria, i laa-

In Ureece they deforlod his.

The querrel betwen the NIkoliiS and 8b

PELTEROVS

wan caured ly mutual suspicion, mogely with respact to Iii Di

The hardship and hunger ondured durinz their illelt lo. Urace adder so t

orletnal launderstandingo

20. Of che members of the under rount organization, incorant son only ivan

Todory STOJis0%, who instructad ines ln oçarelin mespons, an: dro?

84131020%

HIS:080, left & so.id and pusitire lepression

---

## Page 5

Eraska 1 di wi

casant satien in Poraty and sarkava, and so he torton sonor area

croup in the-arose

Contente

Informant la of no operational value.

H1s only desire lo: to enterate are

ho has made application for emigration to Brasil.

KAPUX

---

