# 104-10110-10710

## Page 1

104-10110-10710

• to snado.....!

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSI

ITION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

A JFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

Vui

Don- deli

an 69i

41. Tigles

DATE

10-11

76-11

10 • 11-67

INITIALS

33

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

_ PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarker Tee aTtached is wist

a Cos file i end

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

UNCLASSIFIED

Sleeves DENTAL

23

Use previous editions

DATE

10/10/67

SECRET

(40)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 2

14-00000

вей

Cales

на для

and fary's

i Clean

in Solie do jou wanT dis

??why A016

• .

AFFROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA EISTORICAL REVIEW PRUGRAN

---

## Page 3

cor

sale

Thre s

Chief, 588

DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS

M. D. Stevens

PEREZ, Balph

1444 260

18 October 1967

paragraph 2 of the altached memorandum on Richard S." CAIN

Sable who ta 19 pe a til on at protest Dos (00/0)

for rontine exploitation na a source of forelgu positive intelligence.

Ro. On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regardlag an ua-

subatantiated report that Subject subseribed to the Communit

publication "NOZ de MEXICO" and was a Communiat leader li

191%. He reportedly was a leader of the Communet nucleui li

the Chicago Mexican colony. According to a potation dated 6/26/63,

this information was "connidered resolved in Sabject" a favor through

1959 B.d. conducted on Sabject's sister. " DCS was also Informed

Phat Sabjoct's sister (Marla Gradalupe GALLARDO, with varlone

akam) was reported by reliable Informants to have been « member

of the Mexican Commision of the Commnist Party in 1946 and

card carrying Communint Party member in 195L., During an inter-

viewin 1954, she admitted attending meetings of the Communiw

Party and a Communist Party school during the mid-1930', in Chicago

but dented havlag attended Communist Party affaire mubsequent to 1945,

or to ever having been a member of the Commandot Party.

So Tilth reference to Gulllermo ESCOBAROS E

whom Subject

(PEREZ) is sald to have given

lead, he may or may not be Galllermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, 2k8: •

Guillermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, 1444 260, a Merlean citisen

24

There is no derogatory information la ESCOBAR'A flle and ne

information on him since 1957.

GROUP 1

Exciaded tram automatic

dewagrating so

deciss ilication

---

## Page 4

14-00000

* The only other Cuillermo ESCOBAR on whom there le

Informallon in Security Indices la an Individual by that name,lloted

In a 1 December 1919 repost on The fourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter.

national, Thie Quillermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the

Federacion de Obreras de Imprenta de Chile, war listed as one of

the personalities ln the Partido Obrero Revolucianarle, an afillated"

M. D. Stevene

Attachment: memo did 9 Oct 67

MDS/cer

2

SECRET

---

