# 104-10186-10230

## Page 1

104-10186-10230

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Jose Miguel FERNANDEZ Roa

REPORT NO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE DISTR

CSCI-316/01234-64

7 October 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

2

' CSCI-316/00254-64

20 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. October 1964

.. FIELD REPORT NO.

HIS IS UNEVALUATEO INFORNATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer

who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.4

Headguarters Comments

Information provided by the source

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned

in the porsonality reports without firs

checking with this Agency.

reference).

Headquarters Comments

Organization - JS) at the University of Habana was promoting

Jose Miguel FERNANDEZ Roa in the School of Philosophy and

Letters

for the executive committee of the Federacion Estudiantil

Universitaria (University Students Federation - FEU).

2.

In a report dated 27 April 1963, it was reported by a usually

reliable

source that Jose M. FERNANDEZ Roa, carrying Cuban

Diplomatic passport 634214, arrived in Mexico from Habana.

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

I ACHY

REP

(Nolas Fiold distribution Indicated by """.)

I NAVY

CLICSO E

ASA

I OCR

I FBI 2

I&NS

INFORMATION RERORT

INFORMATION REPORT

2-EH/REA

DATASH

LX - 1817

NO PROJECT (AMMUO/1

CSCI-316/01234-64

4/BR

-RIDIAN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

FOREIGN DISSEN

CSCI-316 01234-04

*2=

3.

A fairly reliable

source, In a report dated 3 vay 196.. stated

that use FERNANDEr Rod 1e Cho

Third Secretary df. too Cuban

O3 17 Was 1963, another

source said thal Jose FERVIVDEZ Roa, the neuly appointed diplomat

to the Cuban Embassy in bersed, is married and has de child.

4.

A usually reliable source, in a report dated l7 May 1963. said that

Jose FERVANDEZ Roa Is the Second Secretary of the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico City.

5. A former Cultural Attache and Cuban Intellagence Service officer

gave the folluwing

information ou Niguel FERNANDEZ Roa in a

report dated 21 August 1963:

Source first mer FERNANDEZ in 1951 during the early

days of the organization of the 26th of July Norement in Cuba;

FERNANDEZ was one of the

organizers of the lovement.

later heard that FERVANDEZ was a member of the Cuban Intelligence

Service in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. In 1954-55,

FERNANDEZ attended the Cniversity

philosophy

of Habana, where he studied

and was a leader of the student group

"Luchando en

la Fila Ortodoxo."

In 1959 he returned to Cuba from Mexico

and was designated Conandancia General de la Policia in Habana.

He was later named assistant to Efigenio ALVEJEIRAS Delgado;

when Ramiro VALDEZ replaced ALNEJEIRAS as Chief of Police,

FERNANDEZ remained

in his Same position.

in Nanzanillo, Oriente Province,

one time worked at

the Central Estrada Paina in Manzanillo.

FERNANDEZ is an intellectual type and liked to live an easy

life.

in accord with the Revolution, but was a

Communist sympathizer.

He is married, but has a reputation

for woman-chasing.

FERNANDEZ is about 135 pounds, five feet

four inches tall, has brown wavy hair, brown eyes, and a

fair complexion.

6. A usually reliable source. in a report dated 23 January 1964,

said that Jose

Miguel FERV.LYDEZ Roa was the Third Secretary

Press Attache of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

7. In a report from this Agency's representative in Mexico, l6 June

1964, it sas reported that Miguel ROA and Jose Miguel FERNANDEZ

Third Secretary and Press Attache of the Cuban Embassy in

Mexico City, are believed to be identical. The description of

ROA given by the source in the above referenced report fits that

of FERNANDEz with the exception of the hair color; FERVANDEZ'

hair is dark rather than blond.

FERVANDEZ Roa is known by the

Cuban Embassy staff in devico as ROA.

SECRET

NO FOREIG

DISSEM

* 70

-x-

---

