# 104-10519-10059

## Page 1

104-10519-10059

SECRET

14-11-13

MEMORA%DIM FOR:

filled, sein

SCHECT

corld Airwaye,

to cortesy clas la have examined Clue beir 18les on 1115

dishalun's relat demolelps weed the lun Americon loald Airwily: (1:41).

Our soardl begon diel files opened in 194%, concluled sirl those

open ind active no of this dair aná Included:

a. 12 Del organication files:

b. 1 bcD organization file on corporato subaidiary;

individual flles on persons affilinted

with the corporat lon or des substdiutson;

d. : 3 DCD case files.

2. A 1iut (by file numbar) of the files exulned is attached.

3..

We searched for indications in the files of relnelonships

or activities on the part of DCD, other CIA or Intelligence Coasunily®

elements ind

the FAR which tall under "Clogory IIl" no you explalaed

1c. No understand "Cateçor, 111" to include all reintionalips

or acttuitien anong the parties involved other than the normal

pursult of such missions as:

a. The collection of foredon Intelligence Information

and specifically

the briefing

and debriufing of Individuals

affiliated with the corporation;

DC! requeste for and the provision of operational

support to CIA or other Intolligence Communily elements

(e.so, discussions of cover and contacts with corporate

personnel for oper tinnal purposes), except that we

understand that noy involverent of ClA and the PAA

in covert action is Included in Category Ill;

DCH requests for the proviaion of sofistanco 1oi

resettline defectors and other allens;

*soot, ante

SECRE

E 2 INPORT CL BY 010050

sand innin

---

## Page 2

27

SURJICT:

1...1

the fin 1.i0:1.0

is arquent? for and thri

provision of "celer

•te tarinee producilon faciller dor purpores 61

profes-leon eratolid or faullia 'coelon; absirtario.

6802580:1, etc.):

haracled for your information are ducuzere: viach to bellero

full unles Calceoly Ill.

02-1(5)-327/33176 (Case 67251) dared 23 Jene

Vie come aeroon this repoll and have i earled

a copy for your revier since the rubject antles 15 of

considerable intoraut.

b.

HYOR 5851 diied 18 March 196%.

eugeests possible oppertunity for CA in Doninican

Regishlic and involves a lAA caployee.

Yomo to Karmneriines from F. J. Applewhite

dated 20 Spr: 1 196%.

Subject of the neno de "Discussion

of bertrand Russel Car Colas TrIal Situation Kith

Officials of Pan As.

¿eno selected for revien itcause

of possible CA Implirations.

1971, Sul-jeet:

Routing and lecord Sheer dated 2 Or arg

linqueat for Inforsation

Pertainine to

I Material Sugarsen Air Force

paysent tel

in appreciation for his past coogeration.

Mend for the locord dntud 29 January 1971,

Subject: deporting lyl

Pan AmerIcan

World Airways.

Sane no previor Itcha.

f. üne York Field Difice lieno Al 284-74 dated

• Hay 197°, Subjeet: Maqueut Ins Agency Guidance by

Millian %. Seawell, Chairman, "ll, NY, NY.

PAA 18

looking is open contrial als roules to the leoples

Reputlic of China (I'RO). Prior 10 a trip to she PEC

- 2-

SECRET

indians

---

## Page 3

14-00000

BECRET

advice regarding his cotton: with the Inc.

leno spraina Case 53135 dard 71 0uly 1910.

Subject:

Neno supple chal

nch should me dee Influener with US businen co

benef le Moburo.

NYOR 0885 dated 13 Jun 1969 (Cane 50242).

ccording to lll: cologypo, Annoy notorial on elu

foulet supersonic transport

(10-144) 8010 presenter

• lan. Since lad vas coddderius tho purcher o

imperianic aircraft, the presentation of this mterdal

any have been of commercial value to chen.

THOMAS AFFlITO

Sondor Staff Officer

New York Fluld Office, DCD

MARY E.

SCHRODT

Operations Support. Branch, OSC/UCD

Attachments: A/S

• Esteeme

-I-m

SECRST

3 ..

---

## Page 4

CORDSIMAL

ATTACHINT

12100 02 9 f1l0 volice?

1166ea = 3100 volenon

The fallout; Individnal source filen sore roulewed:

1 Parror.

i137d. J

1870.59

110801--

In addstion, the following All'e 1a O56/0OB were exitired:

14347

14967

17479

18885

20580

23/03

Post DCD caves lavolving I'M were revlowed. These cane rushers arc:

• 5021,2

57968

55135

57330

PAN FrieRiCAN MiRMi

11/36811

CONFICENTIAL

пр er.

---

