# 104-10326-10057

## Page 1

104-10326-10057•

MHENO: 96-2985818

SENSIND:

SECRET

RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE:

CONF : _EUR/-BNL

PCS/CL, FILE (0/P)

95 2985818

ASP

FRP :

STAFF

INFO: EUDORECORD. EUR/LGE,

LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD,

TOT:

PAGE

001

262320Z JAN

96

DIRECTOR

615577

SECRET

STAFE

TO :

PRIORITY

FROM: LIMII EUR/BNL INFO EUR/LGL, PCS/CL

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: TRACE

RESPONSE ON DUTCH JOURNALIST

13519

96 2762623

2623187 DIRECTOR 615577

TEXT:

ACTION REQUIRED: NONE, FOR STATION BACKGROUND ONLY.

RESPONSE TO REF QUESTIONS RE THE SHARING OF INFO

WILL BE

PROVIDED IN A SEPARATE MESSAGE,?

HQS BELIEVES SUBJECT TO BE IDENTICAL TO WILLIAM LEONARD

( (OLTMANS) ), (DPOB 10 JUNE 1925, HUIZEN, THE NETHERLANDS) , WHO WAS

ASSIGNED 201-0155221 ON 27 FEBRUARY. 19571

AT THE TIME,

OLTMANS WAS OSTENSIBLY A CORRESPÖNDENT FOR AN OBSCURE DUTCH WEEKLY

PUBLICATION AT THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK. HIS REPUTATION AT THE

UN WAS SUCH THAT HE WAS OSTRACISED BY THE DUTCH DELEGATION AND FELLOW

DUTCH NEWSMEN FOR HIS OPENLY PRO-INDONESIAN PUBLIC STAND ON THE DUTCH

GUINEA QUESTION.

HE ALSO CLAIMED TO WORK FOR AN UNKNOWN NEWS

SYNDICATE IN THE UNITED STATES, BUT NONE OF HIS COLLEAGUES COULD

CLAIM TO HAVE SEEN ANY OF HIS WRITINGS PUBLISHED. HIS MAIN INCOME

SEEMED TO HAVE BEEN DERIVED FROM PUBLIC LECTURES

IN THE UNITED STATES

ON INTERNATIONAL POLITICS

, ESPECIALLY MATTERS TOUCHING ON ASIA IN ..

GENERAL, AND INDONESIA SPECIFICALLY. HE CLAIMED HE GREW UP IN

INDONESIA, AND THEREFORE KNEW THE AREA AND ITS "CONDITIONS" WELL. IN

ADDITION, HE WAS CONSTANTLY SEEN WITH WHAT A WESTERN SOURCE WOULD

CALL "THE WRONG CROWD", AND HE HAD EXCELLENT CONTACTS WITH ALL THE

COMMUNIST DOMINATED COUNTRIES, INCLUDING CUBA AND WAS ON INTIMATE

TERMS WITH ELEMENTS SUCH AS THE GUINEANS, THE INDONESIANS, AND THE

EGYPTIANS.

ACCORDING TO DIRECTOR 243172, 12 JANUARY 1987, ONE OF THE

LAST ENTRIES IN OLTMANS' FILE, "OLTMANS HAS BEEN A THORN IN OUR SIDE

FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS.

HE HAS HIGH LEVEL CONTACTS IN THE SOVIET

UNION. HE IS INDEPENDENTLY WEALTHY BY VIRTUE OF HIS FAMILY HAVING HAD

A VIRTUAL MONOPOLY ON THE QUININE TRADE AT ONE TIME. HE IS HIGHLY

INTELLIGENT BUT PECULIAR, AND WHETHER OR NOT HE WAS EVER IN THE PAY

1

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MHENO: 96-2985818

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE:

OF THE SOVIETS, HE CERTAINLY HAD BEEN A FERVENT SUPPORTER OF THEIR

CAUSES. "

THE FOLLOWING ARE HIGHLIGHTS TAKEN FROM SUBJECTS RATHER

LARGE HOS FILE.

4 ..

HE STUDIED BRIEFLY AT YALE UNIVERSITY AND WAS EXPELLED FOR

MISBEHAVIOR (NFI) • FOR A SHORT TIME THEREAFTER, HE WORKED FOR UNITED

PRESS INTERNATIONAL AND "DE TELEGRAFF", A MAJOR DUTCH DAILY

NEWSPAPER, BUT WAS FIRED FROM BOTH.

IN 1956, HE MARRIED AN AMERICAN

GROUND STEWARDESS, AND IN ON 10. JUNE 1958, HE WAS ADMITTED TO THE

UNITED STATES IN NEW YORK CITY AS A PRA, A STATUS WHICH HE HELD UNTIL

AT LEAST 1987.

IN 1960, HE DIVORCED HIS WIFE, AND IN 1961, WAS

LIVING WITH A PHILIPINO MALE.

NUMEROUS FIELD REPORTS INDICATE THAT IN 1956, OLTMANS

ARRANGED AN INTRODUCTION FOR HIMSELF TO INDONESIAN PRESIDENT

( (SUKARNO)) WITH WHOM HE THEN TRAVELED THROUGH EUROPE IN 1956 AS

SUKARNO'S GUEST. HIS TRIP FROM INDONESIA TO THE U.S. IN FEBRUARY 1957

WAS PAID FOR BY THE INDONESIAN GOVERNMENT, AND ALL INDICTIONS WERE

THAT HE WAS BEING USED AS A TOOL BY THE INDONESIAN GOVERNMENT TO

CARRY ON PROPAGANDA IN THE U.S. AND AT THE UN. DURING THE PERIOD

1960-1961, HE SHUTTLED BETWEEN

EUROPE AND THE UNITED STATES.

6 ..

SUBJECT NEXT APPEARS IN OUR RECORDS IN 1968, WHEN HE

TELEPHONED THE DIRECTOR OF THE U.S.

INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) IN THE

HAGUE TO ADVISE THEM THAT HE WAS ANTI-AMERICAN AND TO GIVE THE USIA

INFORMATION ON ANTI-AMERICAN DUTCH GROUPS IN THE NETHERLANDS.

IN 1972, SUBJECT PLANNED TO MAKE A FILM ON ECOLOGY IN THE

FORMER SOVIET UNION AND VISITED THERE 23-26 JANUARY TO MAKE THE FINAL

ARRANGEMENTS. JAT THIS TIME,

THE DUTCH SERVICE CLAIMED THAT OLTMANS

HAD A FIVE YEAR RETAINER FROM THE RUSSIANS AS AN OVERT PR MAN.

THERE

IS NO INDICATION IN TRE FILE THAT THE FILM WAS EVER MADE.

8.

IN MARCH AND APRIL 1977, OLTMANS GAINED A GREAT DEAL OF

PUBLIC ATTENTION IN THE U. S. AND THE NETHERLANDS. WHEN HE TESTIFIED

*BEFORE THE U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES<ASSASSINATIONS> COMMITTEE ON

*THE LATE GEORGE DE ( (MOHRENSCHILDT) ) 'S CONNECTION WITH<LEE HARVEY>

*< ( (OSWALD)) >AND THE MURDER OF PRESIDENT<JOHN>F. < ( (KENNEDY) ).> IT HAD

LONG BEEN KNOWN THAT DE MOHRENSCHILDT, AS PART OF THE DALLAS

RUSSIAN-SPEAKING COMMUNITY, WAS CLOSE TO OSWALD.

OLIMANS HAD LONG

BEEN CULTIVATING DE MOHRENSCHILDT AS A NEWS SOURCE AND FRIEND.

IN

JANUARY, 1976, DE MOHRENSCHILDT WROTE OLIMANS THAT HE WAS PREPARING A

BOOK ON

HOW HE (DE MOHRENSCHILDT) WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR OSWALD'S

* ASSASSINATION>OF< KENNEDY.>

9.7

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MHENO: 96-2985818

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE :

11. ON 22 SEPTEMBER 1987, FBIS MONITORED THE ACTIVITY OF

13. CL REASON: 1.5 (C), DECL ON: X-1.

FILE:

DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82 • >

ORIG:

EUR/BNLI

201-155221 39188) ; AUTH: DC/EUR/BNI

-REL:

C/EUR/BNL.

CL BY 0528417

END OF MESSAGE

COORD:

SECRET

---

