# 104-10009-10224

## Page 1

1104-70009-10224

Executi:: Ragistry

68-5160

10510

15 October, 1968.

Dear Dick,

Station has sought my views

document in when reference i made to en let 58a

document in which reference is made to the

The document in question is l

together with an attachment dated

29th November, 1963.

recommend strongly that

Its attachment should not on any

account be

declassified or

publicly released for reasons which include

the following :

(1)

It has never been officially stated that there

Is a "C.l.A.

or that

there are

CaliA. officers in

This has been avoided as a point of policy.

(li)

Publication of these facts would invoke a

"spate of questions by the

Press'and in the

which would be contrary to the

national security interest, for example :

(a) Who approved the establishment of

the "C.loA.L

Station'?

(b) What is its composition and location?

(c). What is its purpose in

(Allegations have already been made

that C.l.A. is interfering in L

domestic alfairs.)

(d) With what

deal?

agencies does it

which has not been

publicly disclosed, could be brought

into discussion.)

(e) With what other foreign agencies does the

deal?

Wiist

such dealings?

control is there over

SERRAT

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

2.

(1i)

Questions could be raised as to the investigation

by the

of the

the resue olid yur s guated conclusion ang

I am giving a copy of this letter to your

Station®

With kindest regards and best wishes.

yours cassily,

Richard Helms, Esq.,

Director,

Central Intelligence Agency,

Washington, D.C., 20505,

United States of America.

---

