# 104-10186-10232

## Page 1

104-10186-10232

INFORMATION RERORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The matertal contaire Information ARoCiry too NetiaRl Defeno ol the Unlied Alatra Mitan the meanind of the Enanco Laws, Tillo

18. 09C Dora 783-And TA IDo UNTinIAON or prenIon of thich in any mannor to sa unnuthorod pare to praibiled by lor.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/01231-64

SUNECT Gines GORRIZ

DATE DISTR

6 October 19G4

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

4

3

21 July 1964

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DAVE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. October. 1964

FIELD. REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED -INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.,

Headquarters Comments

The following

report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

the source

and includes supplemontal

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action

on any of

the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Gines GORRIZ, pseudonym "Gil," is in charge of the

British Gulana desk

in the Seccion Sur (South American Section)

of the Departamento de Liberacion Vacional (National Liberation

Department - LY) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (Gencral

Directorate of Intelligence - UGI).

In March 1964, he vistted

British Guiant.

Source believos that GORRIZ was a member of the

United States

Army prior to 1959.

GORRIZ was

being

described

as having been born about 1934 and

five feet cight irches tall.1,2,3,4,5,6 .

ileadquarters Comments

l. According to information acquired in September 1901 from an

untested source who

formerly a G-2 member in the Cuban

consular service!,

the co-ordinator forthe 26th

in Cuba was Gines GORRIN, who traveled frequently to New-

GORRIS was the emissary between Cuba and SASCHEZ,

President of the Movement in New York who had offices at the

Hotel Belvedere and the newspaper Libertad.

STATE

DIA

TARAY

RED

CINCLAVT®

¡Noto-Fiold distribation indecered by "g".)

NATT

CINeSO #

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

TAIR

1&NS

INSA

NNX

1 OCR

TFBI 2

INFORMAT ON REPORT

SiF

2 CL Rit

157

RMATION REPORT

JL$-1096

JO PROJECT (AMMUG/1

CSCI-316/01231-61

conor a letterma

4/BR

---

