# 104-10132-10307

## Page 1

104-10132-10307

SECRET

Chief, SRS

Thra : DC/BRS and C/FIOB/ SRS

M. D. Stevens

CAIN, Richard S.

$272 141

9 October 1967

1. Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS ma 0-

randur on Subject, which in turn made reference to prevlous DCS

memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of Secarity

memorandum dated 29 hay 1967. The 5 June 1967 memorandum

enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documente from the Chicago

Field Office'& file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with

the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee

Harvey OSWALD, et al.'

2. Subject, it is obvious, had been & source of information

regarding an alleged discusion of the assassinntion of President

Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for-Cuba Committee

held in Chicago in Febraary 1963 under the direction of Richard

CRILEY (1346 116). He nloo was the source of infermation regarding

the alleged altempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young

Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accorde

ing to the Chicago office was "one of

J (SAS) leade

obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Preéumably Ralph PEREZ, 1444260)

SPTED 18)

1199499. The documente nieo indicated

that in Febraary 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated

by Eldos 5. COHEN, 138557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS

Chicago office who belleved hi, purpose was tò leara whetber or not

CAIN was in inct ons two-month's sick leave from the COOK Gownty:

Sheriff'= office, an he was nald to be, or was on a political ander

Cover arsignment which CHHEN inferred involved tapping the tele

> Ma phone f aubernatorial candidate Charles I, PERCY and other

in figures.

Dooument Humber

1348-1059 A

for BOJA Ravion an

MAR 1977

SECRET

CHOLY 1

dringrading t

declassifiention

vly.

3ps

---

## Page 2

St

3. During review of CAIN' a Security file, I noted a message

regarding him from Mexico Clty, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned

= "Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessmas in Mexico,"

who obviously had had contact of some kind with CAIN, as well as with

• CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that

GAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. Il (a copy of this memo-

randum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces

on CAIN, Headquarters, In furnishing limited information obtained regard-

ing him, advined that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor & claim

he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The

Station was advised that he did have (or. had had) a legitimate detective

laboratory in Chicago.

4. With reference to Willard ANDREWS, Security indices contain

no record. I belleve the individual seferred to le Wylly. ANDREWS,

(Edward) Wyllys ANDREWS IV. 12769, a former OSS/CIA employee who

has lived in Medco for many years and has contimed to have social con

tacts with representatives of this Agency in Menico an well as with Ageney

employees from Headquarters who visit him from time to time. ANDREWS.

1iio CAIN, was born in Chicago of parente who alno were bors in the general

ares of Chicago.

5. The firsttime CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office

was when the Merico Station requested traces on him. Their request

"temmed from an unannouneed vialt he made to the Statien, during which

ha stated that he had an investigative gency in Mexico with branches in

Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stuted that his agency in Mexico

was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in pollce

methods, In investigative techniques, and in the une of the lie detector;

and had added that he was investigating Communiem In a certain unnamed

Central American country.

6. In June 1962, the Mesdeo Station advined that CAIN was being

deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

• Carrying a loaded revolver and brans mackies

b. Impersonating « Mexican Government official

(He had Identification as an investigates for the

Mesdean Iresouzy Office. )

c. Violating his toustet permit by working at his

detective office and at the Medcan Ireasury

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

V. Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS in September

1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked

to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain

Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On

10 September 1963, the DCS wes sent a memorandum which furnished

much of the above information on CAIN.

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he

had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mada

in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacied for information

as to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, 11 so.

for what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were

in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25

May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with GAIN

since 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had

been the source of information. These had to do with anti-Castro Cuban

activities, procurement of arms, etc.

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there in a

current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that

there be no further contact with him at this time.

10. The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains an

article titled 'Brazen Empire of Organized Crime," in which it is

stated that Sam GIANCANA, Head of the Chicago Cosa Nostra, 16 " atill

running things by remote control from e hide-out in Mesdro... where

he poses as Riecardo SCALZETTI. The seal SCALZETTI, GIANCANA'S

'erst while chauffeur and courier, la more familiar to Chicagosia ae

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and mose recently

= private lnvostigator."

1. Eldon S. COHEN who le mentioned la paragraph 2 of this

memorandur as having evidenced an interest in CAIN during the guber-

natorial campaign of the now Senator (from Illinois) Charles H. PERCY,

4178329 and (EE-21773, 1u now PERCY'& Executive Assistant. COHEN,

who became exployed by PERCY is January 1964, following his resigna-

tion from CIA which was effective 31 December 1963, at the time he con-

tacted a representative of the Chicago Office of DCS regarding CAIN on

10 February 1964, did not Indicate that he was employed by PERCY. He

said, rather, that he'd been aiked by the "PERCY for Governor" people

to inquire su to CAIN's status.

3

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00600

49

• /

12. During the time COHEN was a CIA employee (1949-1963), he

It was then

decided to put bim on a job in FBIS in which he woald not be exposed to

highly sensitive material. At the time of his resignation, he was an

I. O. Contact, GS-14, in the Chicazo Office of the DDI/OD Contact

Division

13. In January 1965, the DCS requested approval to contact.

COHEN on an ad hoc basis to participate in the briefing and debriefing

of his employer, Senator PSRCY, who planned an exteasive tour of the

Fax East. In June 1967, Ms. George CARY, Logislative Counsel,

requanted a check on COHEN stating that there may be occasion to brief

his from tima to tima. According to MI. CARY, COHEN would bu

brieied ganerally on the build up in Cuba but would not be exposed to

operational information or exotis material.

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September

articies in ilfe magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the er3t-

while chauficur and courier of Sam GIANGANA. The second of these

articles makes reference to alleged iriendly contacts of Jim GARRISON.

of the OSWALD Case, with henchren of the Cosa Nostra in the Lcuisiana

area.

M. D. Stevens

rittachments: aticles

MDS/cer

4

ULUKET

BR

---

