# 104-10174-10037

## Page 1

1041017410037

.?!.

SECRET

L Februari 19060

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECTS

Recting withenry 8. Lopezat t e Statler-tillton Hotel o

lobruary 1950 fror 1000 hours to 1530 hourg

D(:/1111ams)

hansons 1/0/98.

2. liT. Lopez)iave a revort of hig contacts in Cubr aiter receiving

and given to Mr. (Lopez by

he dotes with do band une red ever diate i sloped oe

Echevarris, Rasco, laurano satista, lartinez ingo,

iuben de Leon and

Sanchez Amaro to

the Station representative.

se lind also turned over a

report of Martinor Frags on the sins ni tire Becuericion de la lievolicion.

3.

Mr. Copez") report was taped and a transeript will be forwamed

to :TH by PO/PA.

la Specific recommerdations nade by tir. Corez included having

Herbert t'attlers no to lavana

and try to in luence Castro.

has a good reputation througout the 25th of July Novenent and could

on Cuba was also reconnended.

cover for a lony timo lo co e and that we shouli try to influence hire

He is seriously affooted by any dafections and these tight be enccuraged.

= Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countermanded officials.

ripe for defection ne raifo in Hacienda

and Copero in Conercio.

To men who sore mentioned Storer a leo recraceniet contact with adme

Alberto de Castro in Caracas.

Shis padre wag ferrerly tidel's instructor.

When Fidel was In Caracas he was scolded by Faire Castro whon Fidel

treated with great respect according to 3osco.

The Padre and Fidel spent

about one and one half hours alono together at this time. This priest.

should be checked as a rossible influence on fidel. the possibility of

a split between Fidel and Raul should be exploited. Raul is cold ard

ran and tho fact that he is

Pidol's bruther does not carr. too much

=°3

SCORET

14/0N

---

