# 104-10171-10015

## Page 1

104-10171-10015

JONA

onta

CENTRAL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Mile mered old tr

IN UB0

23-94."!

HURCH Ben MiTRI

unsuestrand parma to probstited by tor

1112

11-16:8: 17

•UNTRY Cuba

FUNECT

REPORT NO.

Status of the Antl-Castro Movement

In Cuba, December 1961

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

C5-3/505,853

29 March 1962

6

RD -4-2107

DATE OP

INTO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

TH6B# 85

20 December 1962

Argentina, Duenos Alres (18 Jarary 1932)

HELD REPORT NO

UNEVALUATED IMIORMATION

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DIPINITIVA. APPRAISAL DE CONTENT 18 TENTATIE

SOURCE.-

Appraisal of Content: 3.

lo Anti-Castro aotirittoo in Cuba Isclude thoso of the nation eldo organisod

movemonts and those of local Ircata where inlependent guerrillas are grouped

In small unlto The penetration ol the Cuban armed farges 1a Insignificant.

The national movements which have been active in Cuba are the Moviniento de

Recuperacion Revolucionarta (MIC?), Moriatonto Democrata Cristlaro (MC),

Mortalento Revolucionarto 30 do Mortimbro, Mortalento Revolucionario del

Puablo. (VRP) Roscato Revolucionarlo, and Directarlo Revolicionarlo

Estudiantil (DR%)•

Other propa vich linitod organizaziona are the Unidad

Revolucionaria and the all.

(ince inadan. de Atlgoa da Auraliano Senches

Arango). The strengta al the groupe by provinco la 2a follows:

•, Southern Orlanto Provoce (Sariago de Cuba)

The MRP, a1' lilno Dias, has mombers tron the rants of the

26 al tely Moresent and, espoclally, frau the former soniar dry.

Its ciulllen orgartzation ls poor, alsoet non-extstent: The nen

renain inactire, waiting for a serlous military notion of a local

or national character.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not. Reproduce

STATE

PEICINCLAYT

CINCAR

Dearer Wanten

And faster

2) NDC.. The MDC has an adequate civilim organisation,. Iron th

counding of the novement Santlago de Cuba bas been ons of 1u

strongholds.. The nilitary organtiation 19 axtranaly poor. Many

at 1ta loaders have gono tato ento or are trying to do so.

They remain totally inactive in hope af an Imvaslan which will resolve

the sitation, and only concern tsaseltos about a future political

Ife, at the time when the present corerument falls.

03)

30 de Morlembre. Thare are for menbore of the 30 de Moviembro 1n

Santlago do Cuba, and they lack coctast ith thoir national loaders.

They have practically no resources.

SE-C--E-9

NOFOR/CONTINUED CONTROL

1jaa

DI

T3T

JaNS

INFORMATION REP

DRINEINFORMATION REPORT

CI/OPS/WH

14 WHICA PROPE

HABA -105.15

IT BUEN

BIOGENES IS 0Ì

0G 5502 an I

Fis

CS-3/505,053

wali

2

COORDINATING-ABLRABIA

LIBR

---

## Page 2

irv.

• 2.

65-3/515,853

M. 1:e1l Mentor 1751 the MY hal a good cirilian ant military organtiallo.

Le 1a1 10. lease of linol Gooraler, the macleoil Co cruinator, cho

local co-rollraitor ant alicot all the mabors 17 be provindo sought asylum.

The ser co crilnate do trydne to roorganiie tra moresent.

Thare are still

none sen of act!in, couleg fran the 26 or

i rely it resort, but they have to

postas llah contacte.

(5) Rescales Moccato has no mibors in the aron.

(6) DRE. IT URE vas complatoly brokon by the unmaccos urfoing of Alherto Muller

and ty the arrost in Octobor of "Bl Piera", provinclal co ardinator.

The DRE

sell kes croat prestige 1a tbe aros, and there ano mary no vald follon 160

direotion.

Do licorthern Ordento Provlace

(1) MIR. The MIR 19 preotleally son adstent in northern Ortento Province,

with the exception al a for personal contacte of Nino Dias.

(2) MDC. Tho NDC 15 pously arganized and toastino.

(0) 30 de Novlembro. It has a mediocro organieation, or membert, and la

Inactivo.

(1) MP. Evon barare the dosento of Ostobar the MP had a Tory j00r

organizallon in this area. Pito Comes (Roardo"), the coordinator,

ras arrested in the roundup at that tine, but escaped and took amylo

In tho Ecuadorea, Embassy, Mle suo0e990s and the maritary ani civilian

personol aro rolatirely capablo.

(5) Roscala. It does not coot in this ares.

(6) DIE. It dood not extot in tido 2508..

co Canaguay Provtace.

(1) 1901. At the baginning of April 1961 Cabaliero (Ma), the co enliastor,

shass ricionano 14

"El Viojo", was arrestod and condemned' to 30 years

on til Isle of Pines.

Arargo (fra), who was need coordinatco in

lupurt, has boon forced to sent asylum In Habana. The moremont has

been instroynd.

(2) MUC. Tho MX has an excellent co clinator, Blanco (fas), no li

roepons1bl0, digeroet, with good cransctions, The MDC has & vory 500

civilian organization and at present la concarned about 1ta silitary

organization, for sidch they already have some persornal.. They. work

erfoctively and are trying to carry out sons milltery untions.

(3) 30 de Norleabre. The olvilion orgadiation 1s relativoly good. It has

a small but effective nilltary furse.

(4) MRP. Caraquoy la prectically the only provinco in uhlch the MAP mis not

ailoctal by the arresto of October:

It has a good civilian organisation

and ellitary forces of importanco, which are unlor the cariand of Portaar

officers of the Rebel ArTy. Arquimides Catallaro (atoban"), 1ta

forcer co-ordinatos, took asylum la tho Brazilian Embassys "Ricarlo»,

his roplacenont, in very Joung (21 Jourg 011) but 1s considered very good.

(5)

Roscate.

are inactive.

It has a poor organlsetion.. There are moust non, but they

(6)

Dia PeN nombers al the DiE remala, and "Dranco" and Refaal Ancol Querado,

Its directors, are know by un?. The moment bas boon destroyed.

5-3-0-8-8-55

NOPORA/CONTINUE CONTROL

---

