# 104-10222-10009

## Page 1

104-10222-10009

SECRET

FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

DO NUT COMPLETE

AUPMERTICAPIDS DE DIGRATURES AND VIRIPICA

POR HEADQUARTERS USE CARY

DO

Thomas. J: Keenan

signaluat

B Dec 1903

05. 05.8061a1

-RADQUARTERS

AND

MOE.

I tHROUGH. ?,

BELON,

MANS OF SUPIRYISOR (ErEO)

Lilinston sonte

3 Пес 1063

DAFE

11 2 March 61

DATE OP BIOTH 2: 6900a.

29 June 1939

GS-11

A. SERTICE BEBIGHATION (Al RAONE)

•. OTHIE DUTY STATIONS DA FIELD

TO BE COMPLETED BY EMPLOYEE

3. CURBLAY POSITION TITLE AND GRADE

_GS=12

S. CURREN! STATION ON PILLO' DASE

Marice City

DURING CURRENT POUR.

DATE OP: PCS ANNIVAL

FIELD ON THIS

Aug 1962

70.

FURE FOR TO DEPAR

15 Des 64

TE. EXPECTEO DATE. DE

PRITE A DESCHIPTION OF YOUR MAJOR DUTICS DUBINO THE CURRENT TOUR. OF DUTY (100

AT HEADQUARIERS POS

Boro da Trendadtrol, Form):

1. Complete responsibility.for a highly sensitive, unilateral technical operation

Agent.

which includes superviaion of 25 agents, one of these beiag a senior (GS-13) Career

2. Supervisory responsibility for a technical and investigative operation

targetted primarily against the local Soviet official installation.

3. Superylsory responslullily for a unlateral surveillance and investigative tean

which is employed on the majority of sensitive assignments for the Station.

the Cuban Government.

* Field support oi a sensitive, continuing provocation operation targetted agains

5. Alternate (to COS) Cage Officer for a LAURICLE project of continaing

importance,

project.

and also alternate Case Officer for an important technical support

4, 09178#

SEE AE

DESCHIPTION DO THE TYPE DE MORE YOU WOULO PREFER FON YOUR NEXT

THAT INDICATED IN ITEM

ASSIGAREN'T IT

IF YOU MIVE MOME THAI ONE PREFERFACE, INDICATE VOUS CHOICES.

18. DIPPENS FROM

In the interests of my career development, I belleve that a lour in Headquarters

(after approximately five years in the field) would be most beneficial, so that 1

may become reacquainted with Headquarters procedures and viewpoin:. (See para

UA bolow) A deak officer position in WH would be preferred.

діоді?.

Réports writing.

200

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

H21198481

(continues)

CATE YOU POPIRHINCE SON MINI ASSIGNERY BY INSERTING NUMBIES I. ? AD

OO1E&

91L89..

8l/oe

and ond sed choice!

I RETURN TO DO GUARENT STATION

TO MTADQUARTERO POA A POUM DE DUTY. DIPM DEDIES tO POOSIOLE

IADICATE CODICE OF CONPOSTNTI

ASSIETUINY IN XIADQUARTERS.

1$?.

CHOICE

WH

-10.0H0108

choice di

AAOPHIA. PIELD STATION.

INDICATE

CHOICE OF

"IPH MISPECT TO POSSIBLE BLASSIGHINT TO MOTHER FIELD. STATION.

18T.

nic cs Montevideo

- 840. cHoIcE El Salvador

QUALIFICATIONs:

_iRD. ¿More Saritiago

10.

HOT MUEN LEAVE DO TOU DESIDE DETOLEN ABSIEANIHYSI

INDICATE NUMERO SO MORE DAYS -

32

INDICATE THE NUNSEN AND ADE OF DEPENONTS UNO DILL DE PRAVELLINO ON MONINE MITH YOU.

Seven: wife - 30; daughter - l; daughter - 6j son - 4; daughter - 3; daughter - 2;

infant (due late June 1964), approx 6 months.

INDICATE

ANY CHANCE IN YOUR PERSONAL OR FAMILY SITUATION UNICO BROVRO DE CONDIOERED IN DETRUMINING YOUR NEXT

My wile la expecting a baby in late June 1964. Since present tour enda l Aus 1964,

it la requested that an extension until 15 Dec 1964 be granted before transfer so that

TRAMSMIITAL SMELT. TO INDICATE ESPLITIOM OF ABOVE PORTION OF THIS FORM.

COMPLETED BY SUPERVISOR AT FIELD STATION

• COHBIOGRATION OF PHE PAST CIPERIENCE AND PERPORMANCE. OF THE EMPLOTEL

A2919MMENT..

HIS EXPRESSEO PREFERENCE POR MEXI

AND -INE STAFFINO BEQUIREMENTS-OF THE STATION: INDICATE VOLO SECOMMENDATION FOM MIS NEXT

Il continued: thia child could more easily travel io next post.

13. COS concurs in this young officer's request and it is strongly urged that

Headguarters extend his tour to 15 December 1964, then give him a tour at Has.

COMPLETE ITEM NO- S:8, TRAMSULITAL BNERT. TO INDICATE CEMPLETION US THIS PORTION. OF THE FORM.

TO BE COMPLETED SY APPROPRIATE CAREER SERVICE OFFICER OR PERSONNEL OFFICER AT HEADQUARTERS.

IN CONSIDENATION OF THE PAST EXPERICACE ANO PERFORMANCE OF

STARTING REQUIREMERTO DS THE COUPONENT IO SNICH NE

MiS LiPRESSED PALFEAANCE FOR MENT.

B3 CURRENTLY ASSIGNED, INDICATE

Wil Division recommends that Mr. keenan's tour in Mextco city be

extended until approximately. 1 October 1061, and that he be assigned

to. His Headquarters

folloring home

MA S65

DATE

OF CAREER

OFFICES

"o#

PRASONNEL OFfICER

Robert D.:

Cashman

2

March

19611

SIGNATUME

FOR LES OF

CAREER

EMPROYCE L HAS LIE DOS NOE DENS NOTICIES OR PLANARE

•ia.

T7EO GE

NO, SIGNATURE

PITLE.

Da:d

13. COSMENTS

SECRET

---

