# 104-10186-10302

## Page 1

104-10186-10302

NFORMATION REPORTI

INCORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba

Racon Cesar CUENCA

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-3/782,053

26 June 1964

CSCI-3/777,805

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1S63/196%

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. MAY 12CA

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVR

SOURCE:

A forier Cuban IS officer who

served with the Cuban

Intellizence Service until April 1964•

Hendquarters Corrent.

records of this Agency.

Keron Cesar CUENCA is the chief of the Illegal Departeent

Direccion General de Inteligencia

19C3 CUENCA went

SCEN Went to poland and was replaced en the en

pseudonye: "MIKE."

Corrunist Party.

Headguarters Corrent.

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no additional

dentsilable Inforration on Ramon Cesar CUENCA aBid

ror: that which was passed in the above referenced CSCI

5

4

2

5

STATE

I DIA

ARALY

REP CINCLANT

(Note: Field dietribution bodicated by "#")

I NAVY

CINCSO #

NSA

I&NS

PINFORMATION REPORT

WH/SA/EOB

HH/S/R

LUCI/LIA

WH/SA/NOS T

WII/MADR

2 CI/R&A

WK/SA7R

WH/SA/CI

zind

RID/AN

WH/WAVE

SA

7(1),

WE 1 (2),

CI 4.

RID 1

instant fuges

TYBi 2

MATION REPORT

LX - 1525

NO

PROJECT

(ANKUG-I)

COORDIATING'HELEANIN

C861 - 3/762.053 lk

61A180N

mix: LD: atb

C1/F0m

2/BR

---

