# 104-10151-10220

## Page 1

104-10151-10220

... 1

COPY NO.

PAGE

312

319

0003096

Inside Washington

2Öch 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

dismissal of such persons

Ilguld

or compressed

for sccurity

reasons re

BY ROBERT. S. ALLEN

cials sho actively oppose

AIN PAUL SCOTT

•Sovicl

Tiled Sovie

"Sovlut Stralegle

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Exccutive

Aetion,"

-The Central Intelli

supprcasca

CIA

thic

docu

Agency

withheld

vital

intelligence

infor

it ait of how agents

dclails of how agents

mation from the Warren

NGB, the Sovict secret

Commission during its in-

are trained to do

vestigation

of the

with Western Iead-

sination

of Prestion

Kcuncdy.

Despite

the conn

sion's willen reques Chee

all documenls that might

sheel light on the assas

sinalion,

failed

CIA

to turn

over ritas

OVCr

tional

intelligence

CSLI

male

warning

that it

is

Kremlin policy to remove

from

public

office by

sassination

Western

offi.

on has yot lo

be

against

usca

Weat®

rom public office; at oth

forn.

The

gas

is

fatal

port

that

CIA

Director

within seconds

and

an

Jolin McCone inade

no

er

times

evch

having'

KGB agent

capartly op.

them eliminated'' phys!

aulopsy would not reveal

mention of this explosive

crating outside.

Ilussla

cally.

Its

uSC.

Non-trace ible

document in

his secret

have becn

suppled with

"Such actlvities

are poisons have been report.

Ecstimony

before

tlie -

ed whicl do not lake c

this

1130

gun,

Warren

Commission.

• known to be underlaken

only

against other types of

• fect until several

host

While McCone furnishe

Moscow

persons In the West, not.

after being administero

the commission

with

• The

Murder

ably

defectors from the

thus allowing an assass

CIA's secret surveil-

U.S.S.R.

and from other

to be far from

countries of the Sovict

When his victins lies

reporls

on

Oswald's

eight

bloc.

"A knowledt

Doble

in Mexico City

bir

"One recently reported

sOurce

has

desor

the assassination. in

assassination technique is

pncumatically

op

to electrocute an individ.

poison

ice

a toms

Icaves

75

details

of

val

Juring

wilh

05.

him

to

which

no

the

agent in the

use a telephone, connect

or other

evidence

ca to a high-voltage wire, - cause of death."

there,

gave

thunderstorm.

no

Congressional

Investi

Kremlin's

Another

involves

the

gators,

who

have

aski

of

that

policy.

which

that

the

name

ments,

anging

pistol

projects a poison gas in

• committee

be

withhe

CO:

ON 8-118

Who tituti

to there

gues

Mile. th

81 29r

Doeuments

U.S.

olicials to

McCormnck (Mass.)

010118

experts,

01

tory .du.

In Jine to: succeed Prosi

Russia's co-ax.

dent Johnson,

istence

ling,.

sirese that

Whilo FBI olficinls

the

•Warrem.

•Commin®

sion's

varnice

Speaker. Mcdor

findings

migat.

. dedicated'

havo

this

dIlIcrent

CIA estimale and

Communist,

that he is on

the list of Western

"olher

documents:

sup

pili

cials feared by. the Krcm

pressed

by. the State Dc

CIA

authority

onriment had been avnil-

has shown the No. 2 man

able

for

study.

in govornment

point

the CIA

the

out that

; хсром

listing

these

State DeparIment

"cret Sovict assassination

suppressca cilionto link®

ing

•Oswald. with

f'emethods.

employcs, gho.

cordin

to

agil

icarnod abous the ropois

p. 8543

---

## Page 2

Inside Washington

210:164

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From Warr

BY ROBERT S. ALLEN

And PAUL SCOTT

cials who actively oppose

"Soviet policies

ritlec

"Sovier

used

West-

dismissal of such persons

liquid

from public office

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

at oth-

form.

The

Executive

er

times

even

-The Central Intelli.

ily op-

having

suppressed

gence

Agency

Russin

. them ' "eliminated' physi.

-within" sec

withheld

cally.

•autopsy.so

ment went int

vital

ils

intelligence

infor

red with

"Such activities

USe.

mation

from

the Warren

ing details of how a:

OF KGB, the Soviet

t-size,

gun,

*known to be undertaken

are • poisons bar

*Commission during its in-

police,

vestigation

are trained

of the

Mom Moscow no

ng only. orders

assas.

against other

ed which d

types of

fect

uptil

away

with Western

use it.

persons in the West, not...

sination. of President

ers, including officials in

The

Murder

Weapons

HIGHLIGHTS

of

defectors from

- after being

Kennedy.

the

thus allowi

Despite

the commis

U.S.

and to make

their deaths appear due

the

suppressed intelligence

U.s.s.te and irom other to be far f

sion's written request for

• estimate, which is locked

countries of

the Soviet

.When

to natural causes.

all documents

that might

One of the KGB's new

In a security area within

bloc

shed light

on the

455a5

15

devised

assassination

the tightly-guarded CIA,

"One recently reported

sination,

are as follows:

assassination technique is

source

CIA

authorities

electrocute an individ-

pneumatical

failed to turn over a na-

wapons "is "a: pnumati-

"It has

been reported

tional

intelligence

esti»

cally: operated poison ice.. that the KGB endeavors

nal

"atomizer,' - which

Juring

him

leaves

use a teleprone, com ta

Poison

Thich

leav

mate warning that it

is : no wound or other evi

remove- the, threat

to

Soviet interests posed; by

ed to a high-voltage wire,

pr

Older

Kremlin policy to remove

during a

_Cause

02

thunderstorm.

from public office bv ag.

death"

• Another involves

Congressi

the

sassination

gators

Western

offi-

While this deadly weap, timen

use

of

a pistol

Whe

which

that

arranging for;the • projects a poison gas iri: committec

the n

Docaments

gence •experts

istence

the •Faren.

Sion"s:

Indings

• Commis

officials. to

McCormac

very du, in line to

dentelor

cial

anet

¡oCor-

. a

Commuaist

anti-

the list of

ke

IS

Western

on

DiEl

• the

Krem

had

State De

been avail.

"They

stady..:

port

the

that

State Department

suppressed eridence link.

ing

•Oswald with

its

explores, Wo

one of

cording to securi

"presented

Soviet

Fiews

question

that

•in

the Department

U.S.S.R

fee"

cotty come

time he

5723 g

This

Dificial's

name •also

pearsd

in

the

ap.

address

book oi a suspecied So

viet

23a26

TINO

in the

arrived

U.S. in 1943, 20

cording to - goverument

files,

Congressional investi-

Sators

2150

have

been

shocied to discorer tha:

In gover

report

•cret

CT:

sa abc

recent

Cression.)

p. 8593

con•

who

exmine

ument has

gressed.

are

investigators also

Firy the

determine

assassination

We in les pie

report

to

the State Department on

Oswald's trip

to

City

Mexico

gave details only of

the defector's visit to the

Russian embassy and not

the

Cuban embassy.

CIA did not report

The

latter

visit

the

Unti

Kenneds's

arier

in Dalias.

assassication

The caller foon the

Catan Imbasse

voices

851 centent

0003095

22443

PAGE

31101

COPY NO.

319

---

