# 104-10112-10415

## Page 1

104-10112-10415

FILE -S

¿FIDENTIAL

#5425

Chief, Faployee Activity Branch/P3D/DS

John F. Meredith

02

shie

3 October 1956

(#20891) - Clearance of Affidavit

Subject attached a copy of the substance of the information which

she would provide in her affidavit in support of Mrs. Conein's

action in contesting the divorce.

2. It was ascertained from Mr. Parrison, Clearance Branch,

Personnel Security Division, that there is a current security

action concerning Subject under Fxecutive Order 10450, the ques

tionable Information which brought about F. 0. 10450 processing

being concerned with Subject's sister's associations, rather than

ber orre

3. A review of Major Conein's file (#5025) discloses that

Corein is a regular Army officer who has been assigned to this

Agency for a number of years.

He is presently on home leave after

a Far Fastern tour and the Office of Security has been advised that

Cored will probably be returned to the Army in October, 1956, in

order to serve two years to complete twenty years service. After

his azy retirement, there is a possibility that he will be con-

sidered for assignment to this Agency as a staff employee. Conein's

file contains no record of his most recent marriage, 1.e., his

na -lage to Carmen Conein. It is noted that Mr. Myers, Clearance

Braze, Personnel Security Division, has been instructed to develop

infa 'tion concerning Conein's present spouse ingsmuch as it was

les-ed indirectly that Conein 1s married at present.

A search of Office of Security indices in the name of

Ca-zez Conein revealed that this person who is Major Conein"s

wi?=, is the subject of File #28995 and was a CIA employee until

her -esignation in October, 1951. Her file reflects that abe

ma--_ed kajor Conein in Germany in December, 1948.

5. On 28 September 1956 I contacted Subject intending to

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

not Indicate her employment as CIA in the affidavit. I learned

from Subjeot that she had already subaitted an affidavit and that

she had not tentioned ber present employment therein.

Subjeot

stated that

Security Officer, PI Staff, had Inforwad

her that she could subuilt the affidault, but that she should

advise the Office of Security as a mattor of information Subject

described kafor Conein es a very unscrumulous persen and mentioned

that Gonein wints to prove that his wife, Carmen, has established

residence elsewbere and will not live with him.

He will try to

deny that he has resided in the Washington area, although she and

other persons, including a realty agent who sold their present

home to the injor and his wife, can testify to the contrary.

jest mentioned that Carmen Coneln is now employed by the National

Security Agency.

6. I Instructed Subject to contact this Office for appropriate

briefing in the event that she is called upon to appear in court

in connection with the Conein divorce matter. She agreed to do

this, but expressed the opinion that there would be no need for her

to appear In this case.

It should be noted that technically speaking Major Conein

should bave notified the Office of Security relative to his Intention

to file suit for divorce; however, circunstances indicate that he

has not returned to Headquarters since completion of his recent

Far Eastern tour and that the divorce sotion apparently was Initlated

within the past month or two during the Major's home leave. In view

of the fact trot Conein has natural cover as an Army officer so that

no publicity to CIA would result from his divorce action, and in

view of the probability that he will return to the Army this month

for a two year tour, it is belleved that no further action is

necessary by this Branch. In view of the current Interest by the

Clearance Branch, Personnel Security Diviaion In regard to the

identity of Subject's spouse, 1t is suggested that this memorandum

be forwarded to the attention of John Myers of Clearance Branch.

John F. Meredith

OS/JFMinab

Distributions

Original & 2 - OS Files

1 - EAB File

1 - Chrono.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

