# 104-10246-10035

## Page 1

104-10246-10035

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

•Do Not Reproduce

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City &

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

• (KDAFGHAN/ Progress Report for Period 1 April Through 31 July

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES.

22

Action:

Terminate the

KDAFGHAN Project

References:

A :

В.

C..

HMMA - 41906g

2 May 19

MEXICO CITY-20107

DIRECTOR-280180

Operational Activities:

This Project continued

as before

for the major portion of this period with KDAFGHAN providing photo

coverage for eight hours per day,

This later proved unuseable as sunlight playing on the mirror Of ot

the lens was plainly visible from the target area in the afternoons

The Agent returned to the use of his old equipment. It being the

current Case Officer's practice to hold nearly all meetings with

this Agent in the Case Officer's auto about once every two weeks we

decided to terminate the KDAFGHAN safehouse as unnecessary.:

04KDAFGHAN-1

was notified of this in early June and nearly collapsed.

The safehouse had been his refuge from the OP and his mother,

O(KDATGHAN-2. We intended to put him on vacation when it was decided

(References B and C) to terminate him and his: Project. The läst

portion of this period was then spent in closing down the operation,

removing equipment from the OP; restoring the OP to itsjoriginal

condition and then assisting the Agents in their preparations for

resettling to Madrid.

All of this was finally accomplished by

31 July and the Agents were formally terminated on 1 August.rsors

Continued.

SENSONNE

AND M2

АРДІК

Distribution:

/ Orig: & 2 - Chief, WHD

CLASSIRIED U/

CROSS REFERENCE TO

nS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 42227

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

7 August 1!

THOS PIE NUMB 50-6-122/3

FORM

good ate.

•ICE DEVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

NO

CONTINUED

# 16208

PAGE NO.

2

of

2

---

## Page 2

DISPATCR

SECRET

HMMA • 42227

2.

period.

Security: There were no security incidents during this

3. Agent Personnel: The termination of these two Agents

came as a severe shock to both; they were not prepared for it.

They have adapted fairly well and now are looking forward to

their new life in Spain. They intend to depart Mexico for Madrid

on 1 September.

393522

production: Production for this period was normal until

20 June when it ceased permanently.

Administrative/Finance:

administrative detail involving Headquarters and the

Station in the resettlement of these two Agents.

This has been

discussed in separate cable traffic.

Costs exceeded the programmed

amount because of

the large severance pay paid both

agents who

over ten years service each.02(KDAFGHAN-1 was paid U.S. $8,170.00

and KDAFGHAN-2 was paid U.S. $2, 228.48.

Plans: We have no plans to replace KDAFGHAN with another

strictly photo-surveillance project.

The production does not

justify the cost.

However, we do have plans to obtain a multi-

purpose basehouse in the

area that can serve as a site for taking

photos

when necessary, serve as a LP for future audio operations

against AMFINK, and

as a base from which to dispatch a future

surveillance team.

The PBRUMEN section has already

started the

search for agent

assets who,

in turn,

can look for an appropriate

site.

The acquisition of the latter will be the most difficult as

rental property is at a premium in the AMFINK area.

Headquarters

will be kept informed of our progress.

canalishe

JesseR. GARDALPHE

53 a

-4910

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

NO

PAGE NO.

2 of 2

CONTINUED

---

