# 104-10146-10266

## Page 1

104-10146-10266

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

•CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ASCA

SUBC Meeting with House Select Committee on Assassinations Staffer

Ken Kline, 10 May 1978

FROM:

03

SECRET

DATE

Chief,

SE/OR/I

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

9259

FFICER

SITIAL

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

12 May 1978

COMMENTS A a fire acto colom to thou comman)

1.

12 MAY 1978

C/SE/ORP

SECRET

2.

3.

4.

AC/C&R Staff

Office

of Legislative Council

6 D 15

5.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

. Do Not Reproduce

15.

INTERNAl

---

## Page 2

SECRET

12 May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

FROM

03

Chief, SE/OR/I

SUBJECT:

Meeting with House Select Committee on Assassinations

Meating

Staffer Ken Kline, 10 May 1978

This meeting was in response to Mr. Kline's request

to Ben Pepper on 26 April 1978 for a briefing on KGB Second

Chief Directorate Operations against Americans to give him a

context in which to place both Nosenko's reporting and Oswald's

sojourn

in the Soviet Union.

The meeting lasted approximately

one hour. No one other than Mr. Kline and I was present.

At the outset, I gave Mr. Kline a brief presentation

on the functions and organization of the KGB, showing where

Nosenko fit in and identifying the various operational elements

of both the First and Second Chief Directorates which are in-

volved in operations against the United States. I also ex-

plained

the relationship of the various Republic and Regional

KGB's, e.g., the Belorussian KGB in Minsk, to the All-Union KGB

and gave

short rundown on KGB m.o. against foreign tourists.

I emphasized that most of this information came from Nosenko,

that bits and pieces acquired from subsequent sources by

and large confirmed his information.

3.

Mr. Kline asked my comments on a number of points:

He asked if the KGB "talked to" all American

tourists and I replied they did not, but that any Ameri-

can expressing

a desire to remain permanently in the

USSR would most definitely be interviewed, both to de-

termine the individual's bona fides and to ascertair

whether he was of any operational or positive intelli-

I said I could provide no detailed

WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 056479

SECRET

21414

1gД

---

## Page 3

SECRET

- 2-

information on KGB handling of American defectors, re-

to CI Staff, which I understood was assembling

b.

Mr. Kline asked how the KGB, if it wanted to con-

vince

us, truthfully or not, that Oswald was not a Soviet

agent would prepare an operation to do this.

I said that

any answer on my part would be pure speculation

wo have e data bach satan refitten about a eatin!

though much has

formation operations, there was no documented case in

the past 20 years or

so in which the KGB was known to

have used a controlled agent for the purpose of passing

Intormation designed to deceive us on a substantive

issue, as opposed to simply convincing us of the bona

fides of a false defector dispatched for espionage pur-

He asked if there had been many such false de-

fectors,

to which I replied there had been some who had

the mission of

attaching themselves in some fashion to

the U.S. Intelligence Services, but none of these was

or claimed to

be a KGB officer.

The purpose of these

operations, all of which took place quite a number of

years ago, was penetration of U.s. Intelligence, not

strategic

or political deception.

He inquired as to whether anyone other than

Nosenko, or someone in roughly the same position, would

have been in a position effectively to convince us that

Oswald was not

take a KGB officer to make a credible negative state-

these tines

a Soviet agent.

I conceded that it would

him in a position to review Oswald's KGB file, was

tative statement based on first hand knowledge.

noted, however, that if Oswald had been recruited and

trained for so

'sensitive a mission as assassinating the

resident of the United States

such an operation would

nave been authorized at highest levels of the Soviet

government, would have been kept compartmented to the

most

extreme degree, and would not have been run by the

Foreign Tourist Department. Nosenko almost certainly

would have had no knowledge of it.

d. Mr. Kline asked me how I would go about setting

up an operation designed to convince the U.S. that

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

- 3 -

Oswald was not a Soviet agent. I said that this, again,

was highly speculative and would not necessarily have

any relation to what the KGB would do. I did say, how-

tin was one the things a could take into consider-

was keeping the cost

at the counterintelligence information which would have

to be divulged to establish the agent's credibility,

within reasonable bounds.

Although it might be necessary

an intelligence officer who could have plausible

access to such information, I would not use an intelli-

gence officer who acknowledged having been deeply in-

volved in operations against the American target over a

period of ten years.

Neither would I have such an of-

ficer defect.

It would be much simpler and less costly

in the long

run to have an officer stationed abroad

volunteer his services, work in place for a short time

luring which he could pass the desired disinformation,

and then return on plausible

grounds to the USSR, never

to be seen abroad again.

While an officer stationed

abroad probably could not claim, as Nosenko did,

to have

personally seen Oswald's file, it would not be difficult

to construct a plausible story as to how he obtained this

information (from friends in SCD, etc.) as to make his

information convincing.

As to whether the KGB would be likely to recruit

an individual like Oswald, I said I rather doubted it.

Any re-defector

is automatically

suspect to scrutiny by

his own counterintelligence service and most certainly

will never be allowed in a position involving access to

sensitive

information.

Recruitment of a man like Oswald

to assassinate the president seemed even more implausible,

given the man's obvious personal weaknesses and insta-

bility and the fact that, as a re-defector,

he would

certainly (I would have assumed) be on the list of

persons to be watched by those with responsibility for

the President's security. The fact that this did not

occur in Oswald's case does not alter the fact that,

if the

KGB were looking for someone to perform this

task

it would probably seek someone with the lowest

profile possible rather than an individual who could be

expected to attract security attention.

I noted that

the KGB had conducted some assassinations in the post-

war years, but these had all been carried out by Soviet,

foreign, agents, and had been directed against former

SECRET

---

## Page 5

Sagestrel

SECRET

- 4 -

With regard to KGB training facilities in Minsk,

I stated that the KGB has schools for training internal

counterintelligence officers in a number of provincial

cities, including Minsk, but these are for staff officers

assigned to duty in these areas and not for agents being

Such agent training

is conducted on a

tutorial basis in safehouses and no foreign KGB agent would

ever be allowed to enter a KGB official installation.

Mr.

Kline suggested that Oswald was sent to Minsk so that he

could be trained by the experts available there, even

chough his own training was

carried out in a safehouse.

I said that the type of training

given at a basic school

for staff internal counterintelligence officers is of a

totally different nature from that given to an agent for

dispatch abroad and this connection

seemed unlikely.

for that

that the

presence of a KGb training facility

in Minsk relates to this one way or the other.

Mr. Kline raised a number of questions relative

to the general question of KGB competence, e g:, whether

drilled, if dispatched, would have been sufficiently

on questions he would be asked as to establish

a false legend concerning himself

and not be tripped up

by questions from persons such as Deryabin.

I said that

although KGB competence varies widely,

their counterintel-

ligence capabilities are formidable and, in an important

case, they are capable of a very high degree of sophisti-

cation.

I could not comment on how well they would

prepare a man to live a false legend corresponding to

Nosenko's story, but pointed out that clairvoyance as

to what questions will be put, etc., exists only in

fiction.

The KGB would, however, carefully study

assessments from

previous defections, etc.?

ensure that information supplied would fit in with what

easter defoctors are as sumed to have reit in with what

3.

At the conclusion of our meeting, Mr. Kline said that

some of my comments had been helpful. He made no specific

requests for further information, but said he might contact

me if any should occur to him later./

703

SECRET

---

## Page 6

cd-idonor

/.' ..

w/856

SECRET

-5 -

12 May 1978

Select Committee

Menct Co the Re ond ssa May taon suater eeine wit, Housay

1978, continued)

Distribution:

ori8 - Acting Chiete of Ldinstaoiven d Raciew Staff,

1 - 0/SA/DO/0 - Mr. Shepanek

- C/CI via DC/CI

- C/SE/OR/I

- C/SE

- C/SE/ORP

SECRET

---

