# 104-10183-10013

## Page 1

104-10183-10013

tiesele

RETURN TO CIA:!

Background Use Only:

14 October - 1963 Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT

:

ANWHIP/1 Meeting,

New York City

Tuesday, 8 October 1963.

Meeting Time/Place.

The meeting was arranged by

telephone from D.

Sterile No. for 1330 ja AWHIP's office.

The undersigned picked A/l up as planned and left the premises

• for. luncheon at the Italian Restaurant next door. The meeting

terminated without incident at 1600.

Purpose of Meeting.

The weeting was scheduled in

order to request A/ to Teave for Paris in time to make a Cuban

Embassy reception there on the evening of 10 October 1963.

A/l was also paid his air fare

expenses incurred during

his recent trip to Grazil in connection with the AMLASH op.

A signed receipt was also received by the under

signed for an advance of $945.00 against the purchase of a

return

ticket to Paris for the above reason.

Details of Meeting.

On Monday, 7 October 1963,

Headquarters recelved a cable from Ontrich

in Paris stating

AMLASH had changed his mind about not icturning, and as a

result, felt th.t it was imperative that he show up at the Cuban

Embassy reception for the departing Ambassador in the company

of AMWHIP In order to lend credence for his prolonged stay

in Parie and to explain his source of funds while there.

response to a call from the undorsinged, AMWHIP replied that

some very worrisone business problems at present precluded hia

golng at this time.

Said he would call later if could arrange

it.

Meanwhile, on beels of first cable came second with

encouraging report re AMLASH attitude towards cooperation

on worthwhile baste with KUBARK.

Undersinged arsin called

wald he rould do all

ponsible to comply.

Back al office br

began checking flaghts

lu Porie.. Sald he muld contact us

next duy at 1200.

Siner the

undermigned folt ANTHiP could

mhe lise trip, latter von Riven Instructions for contactin

ONTRICH

1n

PArIe and the AddreAN Of AMLASH there (for OSTRICH:

R•1: ANJO 7400. 8 7369:

for

AMLASH, Moral Studio, del: DA%-H100).

(Next day al 1000, undermined learned that AKHIP had

had trouble

KACCINE PERCOTARIN.

bral hast tinally

nuirreded and nald to tla

BOA, AFFIVINE PARO OIA LOND Al 1100, 10 ViROTES.

This cabird

SO OSTRICHS

2182

---

