# 104-10219-10074

## Page 1

104-10219-10074

DISPATCH

PROCESSING ACTION

SECR

HANDS VON MOCKING

Chiof, ME

Chief, SB

DO MODERS REQUILD

GIZY QUALIFIED DESA

CAN REC CACTUN

Chief of Station,

KUDESK

ACTION RIQUIRED. REFERENCLS

IT PS

De. Roscoe Beryl

WHITE (201 9P032

#SCROFEM

REVERENCES:

6P

(a)

(b)

24330,

17 Auguat 1965

24418, 15 September 1965

The story provided by Subjeat during our interview at the United

States Consulate In Triente on 25 Ootober 1965 concerning hia experiences

while In the soviet Union 18 essentially the same as that provided by Dr.

George Renninger in raference (a).

Although Subject was reasorably 0o-

operative, he was not as fully cormunloative as we might have desired.

In

conaldering the various possiblo reasons for his partial hesitanoe lt ap-

pears rather obvious now that our continued interest in what he interpreted

to be a very simplo relationahip with a Soviet girl has caused him to gus-

poot that posalbly ve are suapicious of him.

Acoording to Subjeot, the

entire episode was reported fully while in Mosoon and again to KUSARK last

Christmas while he was on a vialt to the United states.

SubJect stited

that he had prepared a roport in writing for Dr. Goldberg at Prinoston

University

who aote as n gi tethren for kubark.

It la obvious that he was

probably asked to prepare a general report on his experienous while in the

Soviot Union for KUlOOK which we had not been aware of previoualy and whieh

may not have come to the attention of KUDESK. Unlues Headquarters has some

rathor specifio questiona it in considered unlikuly that we oan provide any

Information in addition to that reported in the folloving paragraphs ob-

tained during this Intervier.

20

Subject arrived in Moscow during the early part of November 1963

on a ter month exchange fellowship arranged botreen the National Academy

of Soionoes and the Soviut Academy of Sciences.

Subject was assigned to

the Lebeder Physios Institute in Moscow and the major portion of his life

while In Mosoow revolved around his work at the Inatitute or various in-

dividuals met through the Institute. Subject ate lunch in the Institute

lunch room or cafeterle and usually at about the same time each day, some-

time between one and one thirty. Approximatoly two weeks after he had

Distribution:

•'3 - Chief, WE

2- C/ SR

DOC. MICRO. SER.

•Wi? 21976

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

4230121

H1NS2ON ES

1K0

201-252338

DATE

8 November 1965

DEQS FILE NUNDER ..

202,97852.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

SO BE A dina - 12331

arrived

At the Indisture, subdeet and tid bolde, Dr. deurge Morninger,

who ras at the Insiltute on a similar

ten month excrange fellowship, were

approached by Vladiair Anatolnvion sokolovsky whale waiting in the care

teria 11ne. SOKCLOVSKIY, who identified himself as an American, said that

he had heard that they were in the Insultile and ranted to meet then. Dur-

ing this firgt conversation Subjeot clairs that SOrOLOVSKIY told them that

he was in faot Willlam Hanilton MARTIN and vent on to explain sone of the

supertiolal details surrinding nia delecion to she sovier Union in 190J.

MARTIN told them that if lney did not consider him oo tainted, he would

welcome the opportunity of talking to scoa harloans.

He felt that Lhere

were sany racets of his experiences while in the Soviet Union which he

would like to talk about but which he could not dississ with his Soviet

Either on this ocoasion or later,. MARTIN sentioned that Vernon

MICHELL, who had defeated with MARTIN, was l1ving In Leningrad.

30

Approximately a week later SubJect net MARTDY again in the lunch

roots

MARTIN reportal that lollowing ils firat encounter with Subjeet and

RENNINOER he had been called into the party offloe at the Inatitute. They

apologized to him for not having warned r.im in arivanon that Subjeet and

RENNINGiR were boing assigned to the Institute, sinee they were certain

that Subjeot would have wanted to avoid ther.

They cold MARTIN that it

was perfectly permissible for him to talk to them, but that he should de?-

Initely not reveal his true identity to them nor should he give them his

address in Mosoow sinde there was the possibility that they had been sent

to the Soviet Union to assaasinate him.

Quite naturally, they also wanted

to know what MAKTIl had disoussed v1uh Subjeot and NEININGER.

rule, Subject Bar MARTIN in the lunch room every weex or two for the entire

perlod that he was in Mosoow.

On certain occasions it appeared that MARTIN

would avoid talking to Subjeat, Based on MARTIN's actions, Subjoor assuned

this waually depended on who was prosent in the lunch room.

SubJeat added

at this point that their disousalons with MARTIN were always in English.

# MARTIN made 1t definitely clear to Subjoot that he was intorested

in getting out of the Soviet Union.

He desoribed life in the USSR as a

constant game with the Soviet offiolals.

MARTIN felt that he had only been

able to keep his hoad above water while there because of his knowledge of

Soviet. law.

Hu explained to Subject that he had devoted a great deal of

time studying Soviet law and had used his knowleâge to proteat himselt.

The Soviets were frequently at a losa when confronted with quotations from

their own laws in total confliot with aotions which they were tryina to

impose on MARTIN. Subjeot was once asked to write a letter to MARTIN' B

parents asking them to. put pressure on the Soviets and the Prese to help

in obtalning his release.

Subjeot sald.that.e. copy of thin letter must

be avallable at KUBARK.

5. MARTIN also desaribed in great detail to Subject life in genoral

within the Soviet Union and what the averase Soviet citizen must fade every

day.. It was obvious to Subjeot that MARTIN had been greatly dialllusioned

following his arrival in the USSR when he found a society totally different

from what he had antioipated prior to his departure from the United States.

The joviets had exerted considerable presaure on Subjeot to partioipate in

various anti-US radio programs or to write ant1-US artiales.

disoussion back and forth MARTIN agreed to write something if they would

promise to publish it without editing.

He wrote what he considered a very

. objective comparison of life In the USSR and that in the U.S. After having

submitted this artiole he was never approached again on this tople.

6.

Regular contacts between Subject, RENNINAER and MARTIN continued

in the lunch room with general conversations such as those noted above un-

t1l December or early January, 1564.

At this point MARTIN asked Subjeet

If he or RENNINGER wauld. go to

the U.S. Embassy to ask them if there vere

any way in which they could assist him in leaving the Soviet Union legally

or otherwise.

Subjeet rated that' RENNINGER had already contaoted the U.S.

Embassy following the firat meeting with MARTIN to report on their con

versations with him and the faot that he was in Moscow.

FORM

5.60

$3a

180)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

PAGE NO

2

Warpal

for Fordin

8202 70-27

CONTINUED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DISPATCH

three 42301

191 DOI 70-17

7.

Alao at about ine same tine, probably aarly January, Subject was

standirug in the lunah roun line (Subjeot almaja reierred to

1t as

the lunch

room rather than a cafeseria) when le saw MARTIN together with an attrac-

tive young firl about tranty or twentj-one years of age.

They stopped to

ohat for a lument and MARTIN introduced Alla Aleksandrovna ROLLOVA.

Subjeot

emphasized that this was entiraly casual and that their conversation at this

meting lanted "or only a for mosenus.. A few days or possibly

a week later

MARTIN saw jubJeot in the lunch room and bentioned that "Alla" had found

him quite a handsone individual.

MARTIN coationed this ooly in passing and

In no way, an far as Subjeot was conderned, auteupted to forde "Alla" on sub-

foot.

Subjeot was equally impressed with

"Alla" and during the following

Pen daya made several Inquiries anong iis Soviet colleagues in the Insti-

tute.

No one had anything partioular to say about her otner than that she

was rather aolive sooially and had wany friends in the Inatitute. At this

point Subjeot did not know where she worked at the Institute.

8.

Sometime during the latter part of January 19f4 S.bJeot had his

firat date with "Alla.'

Subjeat oouid not recall exaotly how this was ar

ranged, but belleves that he met her in the lunch room and asked her to go'

on a troike ride with him.

This was followed by five or six other dates

with her ovor the next seven or eight weeks.

They went to a film

ones, the

Bolsty onou, the opera onde and restaurante on two or three occaalons.

9.

Atler a while Subjeot notioed that she was partioularly intereated

in his Soviet friends and other contacts in the Soviet Union.

For example,

on the evening they attorded the Bolahoy, Subleat noticed hia friend willlan

(B11)) PARRIS, an

Anerloan exohango atudent at the Mosoow State Univeralty.

Subject had known him at Princeton University. Subjeot said,

"Oh, there is

B111."

She innediately said,

"What did you say abuut SOKOLOVSKIY?" In other

words, she knew perfectly woll that SoKoLoVSKIY and Willia MAHTIN kere one

and the name. She was obvioualy embarrased and tried without success to

oover up her blunder.

Many later told subject that "Alla" had oalled him

that evening to cell him of her blunder.

She also onoe asied Subjoot 1f le

were really going to return to the United Intes. This couid, of course, be

Intorproted as a defeotion pitoh. Suojeot feela that it was more of a

casual personai. remark.

10.

According to Subjeot,

"Alla" seened to lum to be such too friendly,

willo at the sane time not sinourely friendly.

In February, Subjeat's. sus-

pioions had mounted to the point where

ke decided to ask. hís Soviet 00l

league in the Institute, Ilia ROYZIN (phonetio), 1f he oould cheok with

some of his contaota to determine if "Alla" ves in faot being usod against

him for sono jurpose, Subjeot claimed that he already lier at this point

through conversations with his soviet colleagues tint RoXin could oheak

without bringing it to anyone's attention.

Shortly afterwaras, ROYLIN re-

turned to Subjoot with the advibe to stop seuing her. he castioned Sub-

feat that he should not mention to anyone that he had talked to him and

certainly not to say anything. Subject claima that he stopped dating her

after this point, but did cocasionally see her in the lunch room. After

Subjeot stopped seeing her she called him at his hotel every two or three

days.

At no point did MARTIN really push Subjeet on continuing the relation-

8h1p®

11, Subjeot desoribed their relationship as perfectly natural for two

young people Interested in each other.

They selden discussed anything of

importanoe and never disoussed his work at the Institute.

Subject went

home with ber to her apartment on two separate occasions.

Once she asked

him to spend the night with her, but he indicated that he should get back

to his hotel. Subjeot desoribed her as possibly a bit more forward sexually

than others that he had met, but that their relatlonship was perfectly

normal and certainly nothing that could be used againat him since he was

a single man.

The apartment was actually her nother's, a che room apert-

mant with an alcove for the bed and a small kitchen.

Subleat never met her

mother and is not sure if her father lived in the apartment with the nother.

FORM

3-B0

53a

USE PREVIOUE EDITION

40609

PAGE NO.

3

CONTINUED

---

## Page 4

FON

5.B0

53c

401'

FRIEND

H1100051ma4194 - 42322

Sunsent dond recall that her esther all acts, although be d11

not know 18 te carat one had died or if sly had men divorces.

heard fron someone that her fathor worked for the 103.

Subjest could pro

vide absolutaly no further Information on this polat..

"AlLa"

rever

scened

to be pasking the relationship even though she did seem curlous about some

of Subject's friends.

Once she mentioned to Subjest that they should

be seen together in the lunch mon since this night be a tink for her.

12.

subjeat last saw "Alla" alone just bofore he left the Soviet Union.

He was down town one day and met her by chande.

Trey stopped or coffee

and chatted for arbile. The only thing of any aignificancs nosed was tat

she had been disuissed from the lebedev Institute and was then working for

Ministry of Foreign Affaire.

During the past sumer, Subleat and RENDLiCER

again visited Moscor for a neer (15-20 Juis 1945).

They drove from Trieste

to Prague and then on into Moscow via train.

Arrangementy were made through

Inturist®

They visired the lebedev Institute for a day, as woll as, friends

In Monsow.. Nothing coourred on this visit of any partioular note.

Suijeet

promined to prepare a written report on this trip during the next two or

three seke and w111 pase 1t to the underaigned via the Consulate in Trieste,

Posalbly after reviewing this report we ray have further questlone.

Since

his return, Subjest has reoeived a brief lotter fron "Alla" in elementary

German stating simply that she had heard that he has been in Moscor and

that she was sorry that they had not seen each other. The return address

Indioated that she had moved:

Noskra W-30

Profao Jurnaja Ul. 15

Kwartire 10

13.

Subjeot's rosponses to the questiona contained In the "Personality

Data Debrioting Oulde"

produeed the following additional Informtion:

A. Basto Biographio Data

USE PRIVIOUS EDITION.

(1)

(2)

(3)

Name:

Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.

Nioknames:

None other tran "ATTa".

DPOB:

Subject was not certain but belleves that

she was born in Mosoon and had always Iived tbare.

He did not know her exot rate of birth. lle estimatod

that it rust have heen about 1981.

(4)

(5)

(6)

Citizenship:

Soviet

Iden Doouments:

SubJeet. never san any of her. docunents.

Pather:

23 noted above Alla's nother had had tro

husbands. He assumaa that one vas Alla's father.

Her

father was also supposedly working for the KGB, noeord-

1ng to MARTIN.

(7)

Mother: Subject never met her. Subject only knuw that

Alla Lived with her mother in the apartment in which he

(8)

had visited.

Siblings: Subjeot does not think that she had any sib-

...11ngs.

(9)

Spouse:

Never married.

(10)

Education:

Subjeot knew that she had had some special-

1zed training after completing high school, but does not

belleve that she ever attended the University.

(12)

Religion:

Atheist.

She wore saall gold cross given

to her by her grendwother, but Subjeet explained that

this had no religious meaning.

(12)

Langunges:

Russian (native). She told Subject once

that the planned to learn Jerumn. Based on the brief

note in German recently received from her, sine appar

•antly bas rade some progress. She also spoke a very

11ttle: English. Subjeet does not inow 1f she bad ever

studied English or where she might have lerned 1t.

(13)

Baployment:

Subject did not know 1f she had ever

worked anywhere prior to joining the Lebedev Institute.

Subjeet did not know her. exaot position there, though

she was in the First Seation or the Party Office.

When he met her just prior to his departure, she

told

him that sha had transierred to the Ministry of Foreign

Affairg.

- "ABBIFICATION

PAGE NO.

230947501

CONTINUIT

DE DOI 70-17

---

## Page 5

53cг

:JOIRA 42301

(14) Arresta:

lions known. (SYZIN cace mentioned trat

ahe had one boen caught taiing nosey fron the

Institute. Subjeot had been told that situations

suah as this ver frequently used to en118t the

cooperation of employees for reporting on fellen

employees, etce

Bo

Phyaloal Descriptio:

(1)

Apparent age:

20-21-

(2)

weight:

Cae

100 lba

(3)

Height: C8. 594°

(4)

Ethnia bagkground: Obviously slavia- high abeek

bones and black hair.

(5)

(6)

Build:

slight

Complexion:

(7)

Hair: Blook, subject aided that she dean dye

her hair and the na:ural coler could be anythinge:

(8)

Kyas: light colored, either blue or green

(9)

Nose: anal

(10)

Face: Round

(11) Lips: Medius

(12)

Teeth: Even and in good condition

(13)

Clothea:

for a Rusalan girl certainly above average.

Subjeat felt that she dressed abore ber ingom. He

had no evidenes, however.

(14)

Health: Subjeet a very athletie person and almays in

exoellent health. A very bright and lively person.

(15) Speolal features: None

Co Curpioulus Vitao

Subjeet could provide nothing suppleventing that

already given above.

D. Fersonal and Private Data

E.

(1)

Address:

Мовоот.

Subjeot said that he has provided

the address previously.

Ho also has 1t listed in his

diary which he loft with bid nothor when he wea home

(2)

last Christer See above for. ourrent address.

Telepbone: She had a telaphone in the apartment.

Subjeot. does not recall the numbere

(3)

Apartment: See above,

Subleat considered the apart

ment nice by Sovlet standardo.

Subjeet was not sure

If the father lived there.

(4)

(5)

(6)

Servant:

None.

Meals:

She usually. ate lunch at the Lebeder Inatitute.

Dentist: Subjeot reoalls that she one went to the

dentist while he me in Moscow, He could not reeall

any detalle.

(7)

Clube: Subject was a member of the Konsonol and en-

Joyed vietting the Molodozhnya Club on Corkly Ule

This vas & olub primarily for members of the Konsosol

where they had avallable anny of the popular eurrent

Western records.

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

• (13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

Sports: Skits. swimming and skating.

Theater: Enjojad the theater.

Vacation: Every sunmer. Arranged through the Institute.

Hobbies: Ameriean Jatz.

Personal Iriens:

Subjeot had no speaffio informtion.

Smokes: Subject does not believe that she smokes.

Alcobol: Nora

Canual Sex:

See comment above.

Transportation:

usually toos tarte, metro or the bus.

No oar.

Finanelal: Aceording to Subjeet, she seemed to spend

money faster thar abe earned 1t.

Politioal Data

(1)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

Member of the fonsonol.. Subjeet did not know 1f she

EZ VICATION

LDLAGINED

X CONTINUED

8 D01 90-17

PAGE NO,

5

---

## Page 6

14-00000

DISPRICH

hall aar apeolal cosition, although shr did pontin

once that she had Introduced & aeone at a seeting

Indieating that possibly the helied some sort of poul

t10n.

F. Job Data - Fothing other than already noted above.

O. Miscellaneous.

(1) Travel: the once visited Poland with a student group.

14, In retuming to the toplo of MARTIN and Subjoot's contast with him,

Subjeat reported that MiRrIN usually did nost of the talking. He disoused

11fe 1a the Soviet Union and frequently his attempts to got a divoroe, (when

Subject nos in fosoon in July ha loarnes Lat MAkTIN had Iinally received hia

divoroel.

MARTIN onde told Subjeot that he ras permitted to reoeive Tire and

Life magazines so long an be agreed not to shou man to anyone.

sub feet and

REMINGER onoe referred to ine allegations that MARTIN and MITCHELl were homo

sexuale. MATIN stated emiationlly toat thin vas not true. He said that

ho bad none sor problems, bis that he ma certainly not a hososexual.

with

regard to his defeation, MArTIN sald that he had contaoted somsone prior to

his defeation. subjeot unserstood that no money uns involved and that MARTIN

lad not been an inplace agout.

15. With regard to Heacquartert denire for a personal assessment of

the cirounatanees surrounding this meeting with subject did not

provide an opportunity for any sort of valid assesament.

l'e was bonstant-

ly on the edge of his chair fir the reasons previously noted above.

bright and unusually gifted joung theor cloal phyalelat he spends much of

his time wrapped up in & world of hid ord.

At the same time be does enjoy

ekin diving, skiing and other eports. In some maya he seeme to

Posalbly this 18 the vrong teruinology. A bettar vay of desorib

Ing hin would be to say that he 1a ao trolved in hlo om flold of apoolal

Izatlontrat ho simply has never taken thra to properly consider many of che

other problons re fase in 1110. In going ovor the liat of questions above

he mentioned very proudly that he mas an athelot. At this point all of

these remarka are probably seaningless and should not be glven any. weight

In assessing Subjeat for possible future operational use.

The undersigard

expects that he will agaln be in Trleste In the not too distant future and

will make a point of having lusch or dinner with bla.

rolared olrounstanoes we can obtain a more objective ploture of him as an

Indridual®

16. Il Headquarters has any specifie follos-up questions ve will

try to cover them when we see Subjet again. We are at the point now,

however, where any further questions should be rather specifio to be

maningful. Though much of the above in simply a revier of information

previously reported, we hope that a fey of the new details will be of

soce value to ODENVY and Headquarters.

QUI 12.20

CARLTON TO SHIVELI

17AM

780

6489::

$3a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

•..

8727-65

2i/-282338

PAGE NO.

6

USE CART DOI COULE CONTINUES

---

