# 104-10096-10077

## Page 1

104-10096-10077

As you can see, haste often

makes for much waste!!

After No. 16, things begin

to get a bit confused as you

can clearly see. I have no

way of knowing what is what.

Therefore, I have made two

versions -- both of them are

probably incorrect -- but

I had no other choice.

Anyway, after Paragraph 16,

everything seems to be a

mess.

hj

Also note the spelling of

Alvarado is two different

ways -- 1 just picked one

and did it the same way

twice. I don't know which

is correct.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

was omitted from the transcript, and the CIA

claimed it did not know of most of Oswald's

activities in Mexico City until after the

assassination.

16.

COMMENT: "CIA claimed it did not know of most of

dissemination on 10 October of the 1 October 1963 contact no re-

information or follow-up investigation. Under the Delimitations

Agreement, OSWALD, as a former Marine, was a Navy and FBI case

and potentially of interest to the Department of State.

In interviews with The Post, Belin, who docu-

nented the CIA plots against Castro in his capacity

as executive director of the Rockefeller commission,

revealed the CIA also did not tell the Warren Com-

mission of a report from an alleged witness to a

meeting in Mexico City between Oswald and Cuban

intelligence agents.

COMMENT: Is BELIN referring to Gilberto ALVARADO

Urgate? If so, information regarding OSWALD provided by ALVARADO

was passed to the Warren Commission as attachments to a memorandum

for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 1 June 1964, from Richard HELMS, Deputy

Director for Plans.

(See also Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 4 June

1964, from Richard HELMS; subject: Information Developed on the

Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City.

This memorandum

became Commission Exhibit No. 3152 contained in Volume saVI of

Belin called on the CIA to make full disclosure

of its knowledge of Oswald and his contacts with the

Cubans

and Russians.

8

---

## Page 3

Translati

FLORYAN BARTE

Viren.

West gate Valag

---

## Page 4

7.

36NON%

Let security to trach dorn

page A-7, pards 374.

Let Age-

Sor phime 1.24

extract

Kesslers sorcer for

...?

1 wateral

---

## Page 5

vocd dave. reeeue

Let security to trach dorin

ctro stenagrapter ad

cramslauer.

wiece cled.

refeiedco.in.aisticl m

page A-7, pards 3 % 5

.Let agee-

Ser blime" 24

- exhact prm ths specpie

wight teee.orh

Kesslers seruces pon

the artide..

4.

2/p4

(sta 00

o n muleriad

wiisec.be

spragice

sterilero i. to hotect

5..

..Did

tanit

Nacih viciuts

Tine t' t liver?

ue. lave tote neo -

6.

de Del apDeh licey

wirite ilf

hill nichret

---

## Page 6

hore: Kessle

article tracks

said / to semar are.

ve age when Kessle

Crank in

curitis ed "Benegile"

ni Whee are actual tapes?

8. Did we deprie balan

fact

---

## Page 7

LA Division

No real recollection of who might have gone over win Soptt's

records after he died in 1970.

Tjink it was someone from CI.

Bgo shaw recalls the following names of possible sources:

Anne Goodpaster (Scott's secretary) now retired to Texas

she carried the tapes back and forth.

Charlotte Tarino Rustos (now Videla), currently on home leave

from

Alan White vas DCOS Mexico during some of this time. Now retired.

Tex Puckett,

personally close to Scott, but left April bay 1963.

How retired.

Joe Loftus phoned back from It to name

as a possüble, but

he was COS (according to someone in background) 1973-75.

Russ Holmes phoned to say that he found the pseudo of a Douglas j. FETNGLASS,

speaking on the atrocious Ru sian of the man who had identified himself as

Lee Oswald. I asked Joe Loftus if he can identify that man's true name.

Boris Io. Tarasolt

Rel 51NDr, 1920

in Guadalajay, Mex.

zing

---

