# 104-10142-10029

## Page 1

104-10142-10029

GIA' INTERNAL USE ONLY,

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Wednesday - 30 March 1977

J-15

HS C

77 - 0029

Chrones

Page +

* 15.;

(Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON I was called by Mr.. James

Fiesta, in the office of Representative Clarence D, Long (D., Md.),

regarding a constiluent's request for information on the Kennedy

assassination. This constituent, Ernest F. Rethschulte, is a graduate

student and is preparing a the sis on the assassination.

He had sean

a newspaper article reporting an FOIA release front the Agency of

about 850 pages of material on the assassination to the Associated

Press. Mr. Fiesta is sending me a copy of the newspaper article

so that we can more clearly identify the material with IPS, and if

it has been released it will be provided to the constituent through

Mi. Fiesta. (Note: There have been prior OLC contacts with

Mi. Fiesta on this FOIA request.)

16. (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Spoke with Anne Karalekas,

Senate Select Committee on Inelligence staff, to confirm that she would

be speaking to the Intelligence Process Course on 18 April, for which

I would be assisting her with transportation. She will also speak io an

annual records management conference at

Training Center

on 4 May, for which George Frates, Records Administration Branch,

is making the travel arrangements. She indicated that she would call

Frates and they would work out the arrangements together.

17. (Unclassified - CM) LIAISON Iasked Linda, secretary to.

Pauline Baker, of the staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee

on African Affairs, if the Subcommittee hearings of September 1976

had been published. She said that had just occurred, and promised to send

us two copies. Jadvised Molly Kreimer, CPS, the requester.

18. (Unclassified - ALM) IIAISON Winslow Wheeler, from the

office of Senator Jacob K. Javits, called requesting a copy of "A Study

of Climatological Research as it Pertains to Intelligence Probloms." A

copy was forwarded to him.

20094

CIA INTERNAT USE ANDE

---

