# 104-10072-10224

## Page 1

104-10072-10224

HANCE Cy-Y

L/SLOTTED

CLAGSIFIED MESSAGE

¡CTAL COPIES L

SECRET

GROUP!

(When Filled In)

EXCLUDES TAOM AUTONATIC

M-9999.6GBM ANS

CECLASOIFICATICH

BEPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

3

4

RAR

EY:

DISSEM. BY 2B

120 PER

ACTION UNTY

WAS

•CTION NO

743

WH # 2

FILE, VR

sse, c/er,

d/a/so,

SECRET 301726ZSSEP 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 12724

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

RYBAT HYSAGE

MHFLUFF

306e IN 4 35626. 4

1. STATION MIAMI HAS BEEN TRYING UNSUCCESSFULLY FOR MANY

WEEKS TO IDENTIFY WHAT MAY BE TWO CUBAN ILLEGALS RESIDENT

IN THE UNITED STATES (NEW YORK, WASHINGION AREA AND/OR MIAMI).

THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS FNU QUES ADA

ROMAN AND FNU CE PEDA. HYSAGE-I ALLEGEDLY HAS HAD DIRECI

CONTACI WITH QUESADA ROMAN BUT SEEMS KNOW LITTLE ABOUT DEPEDA.

WE ARE 98 PERCENT SURE THAT THE NAME QUESADA ROMAN IS AN ALiAS, AND

CEPEDA BEING AS COMMON AS II IS LEAVES US NOWHERE. THERE IS

REASON TO BELIEVE THAT HYSAGE-I KNOWS THE TRUVIDENTITY OF

QUESADA, BUT SHE HAS REFUSED TO TELL US AND ADDITIONALLY HAS

PROVIDED CONFUSING AS WELL AS CONFLICTING INFORMATION ON HIM.

SORTING OUT HYSAGE-1'S STATEMENIS ON QUESADA, WE BELIEVE SOME

OF THE FOLLOWING MAY BE TRUE. TO WIT:

AO HE IS 35-40 YEARS OF AGE, DARK HAIRI WHITE

SKIN, SLIM BUT STRONG BUILDS HEIGHI APPARENTLY

5 FEET 8 I0 10 INCHES (APPROX). MAY HAVE A BIRTHMARK

OR SCAR ON UPPER LEFT SIDE FOREHEAD. ON RIGHT SIDE

SECRET

9315

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ADVANCE CEOY

ISSULO

10c50n63

TOTA!

(When Filled I)

SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COFY FROHIBITIO

DISSEM. BY.

ACTION UNIT

RETION NO.

FILE, VR

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 12724 GEGRET

OF NECK AND SMALL BLUE DISCOLORATIONS OR SCARS

RESULTING FROM EXPLOSION OF A DEMMLITION DEVICE

IN VENEZUELA• QUESADA ALLEGEDLY A SABOTAGE

DEMOLITION EXPERT AMONG OTHER THINGS. WAS ACIIVE

SOMETIME DURING 60 IN SABOTAGE VENEZUELAN OIL

FIELDS.

DURING ONE OPERATION THERE WAS PREMATURE

•EXPLOSION OF DEMOLITION DEVICE WHICH PLANTED

SHRAPNEL FRAGMENIS IN HIS NECK WHICH STILL WORK TO THE SURFACE FROM

TIME TO TIME AND ARE EXIRACTED.

B. HE ALLEGEDLY SERVED IN MEXICO SOMETIME

DURING THE PERIOD 63-66 AND MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE

BEEN IN THE EMBASSY. HE WAS DESCRIBED BY HYSAGE-I

AS A SPECIALISI PROBABLY IN SABOTAGE, EXECUTIVE

ACTION; ETC., BUT ALSO. COULD BE A SPECIALIST VIS

A VIS THE AMERICAN DEPARIMENT. HE ALSO ALLEGEDLY

TRAVELLED TO PANAMA EIGHER LATE 63 OR EARLY 64

AROUND THE TIME OF THE PANAMA RIOTS.

THIS COULD

MEAN THAT HE MIGHT HAVE BEEN CONNECTED WITH RICO

GAL AN NOW SERVING A PRISON SENTENCE IN MEXICO.

HYSAGE -1 ALSO TOSSED THE WAR NAMES OSCAR AND GABRIEL

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HESERTRATION

ISSUED

ISLOTTED

: CIAL SOME

St01a37

GROUN

When Filled In) CCASSIFICATS

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEN. DY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

FILE. VR

-PAGE 3 WH/MIAMI 12724S Eat I

AROUND AS RELATING TO THIS PERSON, BUT WE BELIEVE

THIS MAY BE SNOW. THERE IS SOME REASON TO BELIEVE

THE PERSON SHE

DISCUSSED MAY BE ROGELIOR O DRI -

G U E Z LOPEZ WEO SERVED IN MEXICO CITY DURING

THAT PERIOD AND SPECIALIZED ON CENTRAL AMERICA.

ADDRESSEES WILL PROBABLY REMBER THAT ROGELIO

RODRIGUEZ, WHO LNERGO DESCRIBES AS A HIGHLY COMPETENT

AND DANGEROUS CASE OFFICER, WAS PNGED OUT OF NEW

YORK SOMETIME AGO. IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOUTH AFRICAN

GIRL. WHO WAS REPORTING ON THE DIPLOMATIC COLONY IN

WASHINGTON.. STATION MIAMI ALSO NOTES THAT ABELARDO

....

• CUR BEL-O PARDON SERVED IN MEXICH ABOUT THE

* SAME TIME•

C. RE VENEZUELA: HYSAGE-I DESCRIBES HIM ONLY

- AS HAVING LIVED AS AN ILLEGAL IN VENEZUELA FOR

SOME TIME AND SERVING SUCCESSFULLY AS A SABOTAGE

TRAINER AND/OR IMPLEMENIOR OF SABOTAGE OPERATIONS.

SHE HAS SUGGESTED THAT HE WAS THERE DURING THE

MOST ACIIVE PERIOD OF SABOTAGE, WHICH SHE RECALLS

WASH DURING THE EARLY GOS. THIS MAY OR MAY NOT BE

-SECRET

6

---

## Page 4

14-00000

TOVANCE COpy "

IssuED

CLASSRIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

SLOTTED

(When Fillea In/ usercaion

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIDITEO

4

DISSEM. BY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

FER

FILE, VR

PAGE 4 WH/MIAMI 12724@ Ep

TRUE. THE PERSON IN QUESTION COULD JUST AS EASILY

HAVE BEEN CONNECTED WITH THE BRAVO GROUP IN LATE G0S=

MIAMI'S RECORDS OF SABOTAGE OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA

I PRIOR TO 1968 ARE INCOMPLETE. CARACAS, THEREFORE,

MAY BE ABLE TO ISOLATE TWO OR THREE PERSONS WHO

FIT THIS GENERAL CRITERIA FOR FURTHER INVESTIGATION.

DO HYSAGE- 1 ALLEGES THAI QUESADA WAS IN NEW

• YORK CITY AREA AND MET WITH HER DURING THE WEEK OF

¿13 SEPTEMBER IF THIS ACIUALLY HAPPENED, IT MIGHT

ELIMINATE ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ (DEPENDING UPON HIS

PRESENT WHEREABOUIS) AS A PRIME CANDIDATE.

FOR HEADQUARTERS: STATION MIAMI WOULD APPRECIATE

RECEIVING PICTURES OF THE CUBAN COUNTER-SURVEILLANCE

PERSON WHO APPARENTLY COVÈRED HYSAGE-1 DURING THE

PERIOD SHE DELIVERED A LETTER TO PONCHAYS

HOTEL• BELIEVE BOTH HEADQUARTERS AND MIAMI SHOULD

STUDY HIM AGAINST THE MUG BOOK.

• 30 REALIZE THE FOREGOING IS MOST TENUOUS AND INCOMPLETE.

WILL APPREÇIATE, HOWEVER, ANY ASSISTANCE YOU CAN GIVE US IN

• THIS IDENTIFICAIION

40. FILE:

290-6-44713; 56-6-4213.

GP-1

---

