# 104-10185-10156

## Page 1

104-10185-10156

inge

CENTRAL INTALLIGERCE AGENCY

Para

Betters i owe it 4o

an.

Titoe Mial closed 180 ADMA-14-4.

let 12914a1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

КЕНО НО.

SUJECT

Roberto Artonio MORO Perez

(pseudonym Rogel MORENO)

• DATE DASTR.

NO. PAGES

CSCI 3 731,888

18 Juan 1984

2

REFERENCES

•CSCI-3. 798,835-10=1

DATE OF

1964

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACO

SOURCE

18 LA UNEVALUAIEO

вся по

A lurme: Cuban 18 afters who served with ihe Cuban Intelligence

Sarales entil April 1964.

fridguarters Comment The followin report is one ol & series

conlellinyuorso.aldly clormation provided by the source im

in ludlos espplame alal slormalion from the recordo of this Arency.

Robirla Animo MORO Perez, peculunyn ROSel MORENO, le laril

sperglory of don Citar, bimbrase in Rome, la a Cuban lubelligence

Heaoquarters Commoris

24

i.

Accurline to a umanen: dates 26 Apill 1083 romanC

Roberto Artonio MORO Perez arrivod In Rome on

28 March 1963 drd, 85:0l.1 Ayril 196?, assurued the functions of

becond secretary as the Cubun Embassy. MORO, whe is single

residey al Via Archimide 80, American Palace Hotel, Home.

sarriud Cuban diplomalic porsport suraber D/83/136 which as

isaurd in Habel on 23 Fourudry 1903.

2. In a ropori dated 28 Maj 1963 from a source who is usually

seltable, i was slated that Roberto MORO Perez, the second

Beerilary el le Culen Embassy in Rome, 18 deliritely

responsible for ill commercial dealings as well as the firing

of techniral personnel.

Source desertbed, MORO as beirg one

ud li must dille Embassy olliers at as beirg very well

liked by the Cutron Ambissador,

Leonardo FERLANDEZ Sanches,

MORO las adeplod humbell lur more quickly lo the foreign

scene than other Eratasay persounel because hu studles the

SECRET

NO FOREIGI DISSEM

DIA

REP CONCLANT

CINCSOT

PEH.A

- IANS

FBI

conpaiday soN od

RITURN TO

round Use

Not Reprodu

3

2

1

100B WES R

TRIDZAN

3/10//

WEST/W, AF1 121 C11. BID 1

:M1

T*-ISIT

NO PROJECT

MAMMUG - 11

CSC1-2.781933

WE: 4

Rita

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2-

CSCI-3/781, 888

¡ñiage, the potties! altualion, and has broken away from the narrow social

1e existing within

the otticial Embassy family. There are suspicions that

MORO is an intelligence oli".

3. The sane usually reliable source, in a 8 September 1983 report, added the

followire information concerning MORO:

MORO is a very hard worker and works with preciaton and accuracy.

Politicaliy he is & secure CASTRO supporter, but with Intelligence and

moderation. Ho la serious, perhaps excenaively reserved, bur does not

lack communication or the capacity to Inapire aympathy from both hi

colleagues at the Embassy and the Ilallan's with whom he comes In contact.

He never speaks of his lamily. His commercial work at the Embay

follows the normal oftice routine without any particular security treatmenl..

He hiring of technical personnel is considered extremely clanallied and he

refers there mattere directly to the ambassador; no one elec is authorized

to have contact with candidatea for work in his ared.

MORO does not una

a automatie with Coryn Digimant laid, prouddy sur security reasond,:

but Instead drivea a Renault R-8 with temporary license tage which are

valid for one year.

1. In a report dated 17 January 1804 this enme source anid tai Roberto MÚNÜ

Perez and Odina ROJAS Trete, both second secretaries at the Cuban Embassy

in Rome, have been lovers for sometime and live togcther at Via Cuboni 18

while MORO pretends to reside in an apartment on Vla Archinedo.

SECHET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

