# 104-10124-10187

## Page 1

104-10124-10187

82832

22101

Security Information

10:

SB01%

SUBJECT:

Chief:

Speciel Security Dirision

Outers Operaldets Branche

SSE

8G 554

1691:88

JUL 19 5252

A rever of the Subjeste Mize daeleses ke folloning Inf

0S

2n 5 tocrandon inted 27 Februery 1952, OFO ragcestod a corers

secty cieamoe for the Sundents use.

The Subject is dascrihas

es Presidest of a coopony-vica will proride secreditation in

1oe Cootract Agons of this orgariastion It

ti do not expected that

Subject i loura ef the lgemb's acroction rito this costore

BACHEROUG

Subject we bar 3 sura 1321 at Faris, lexes, of native born

parents.

Ee attendod bite schoil at Atlants, Texas 1735-38, Texas

State College for Rarez during the minare El 173T and 1930; Lampox

Military Scoot, Kong 1938 to copletion s Freshuo rear st college

and Yale Intrarulty it lew

Zevon, Goons, trim 1939 to 1943, roceivias

in As Degree in the latter josie Attendance as Yelo Taivercity was

intanacos zy sues enlisten in TT Maes, Usas Debrary, 1342.

Is Hovertery

1943

Sabibet var assiman to walso at the inivarsity s

Colorados at Bouldere

subject is unried be our Nosy daugnter of

forma Losslare Corone WITS HOax The Sabiest 16 procently as8055

ETER TEA INSERTE DRCADOLSINO STITEL, Dallas, Cexas»

FERTINENE DUCATION

an anyank gation cordacted in 1942 and 1913, by another govern

montregancy, discioses favorable Information relatava to the Subsess

and to tãs fanly in all rospects srespt in od trataree.. role one

Iano So contadied in a concendas prepared of another governont

Agenor under deta ol o way 193 wich discloses test the subject.

no ententing Nevel Lengage School, had mitton a letter (adorassee

unnon containing steetsoly bo typo or intomation unich students

nad been wane soond mes bo chyon to anyone cuicide of the schoo

and thet no seidon had basn benised fa scha maation, doo.

F-piahing detests razarding the numbsz or andants in ths ecures

oratorioned intention, atates that the caly mitigeting of ou-

esence in ties inesenco ves toss practicellynil ol de letormatica

Tomished by lus sustect tre alse.

SMORE

irverta

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• SECRET

= Security Information

13 9545

169488

- 75 04

An investigation conducted by the Special Security Division, dur

1ng April and May, 1952, at Dallas, Texas, was

of a favorable nature

concerning the Subject with excaption to his business activities. The

Subjeet is President of the Llberty Broadcasting Company which company

suspended operations on 16 Key 1952 and went into bankruptey on

7 June 1952.

A former associate of the Subject - associated since 1949 and:

exployed by the Subject as of 1950 -- stated that the Subject's meteorie

rise in the radio field (due to assosiation with wealthy father and oa

wealthy and Influential father-In-las) was followed by a rapid descent

and that fraud, duplicity,

evasion, piracy (of baseball games) and tes

were practiced by the Subject; that he enters into contracts with no

Intention of honoring his contractual obligations; and that his moral

life, haavy drinking and extra-marital indiscretions have been questioned.

The Subject is also given over to temper tantrums and has no consider.

Etion for others.

million dollars in an anti-trust suit charging thirteen rajor

The subject in presently wing a tone base ener

clubs with having conspired to monopolise broadearting In eleven

state major leagus areas..

at he Sit has bu lie ne dode he cred by the tester

the present bankruptey proceedings.

The results of the IID checks were entirely negative.

on 17 Ju 1952 the case ourcer, mr.

(Ext. 3308)

was contacted.

He was advised that unfavorable information had been

obtained regarding the subject.

in avere of the bankruptey

status of subject's company and stated that if additional infavorable

information is available - as 1s

the case.

he would forward a meno

randun cancelling the request for hiclearanca

- 2:

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

Security Information

JG 9545

169488

2. CONCLUSIOT AND RECOMENDATION; Information from one lafor

ant, sno his been associated with the Subject for approximately three

years, reflects that the Subject has employed fraud, duplicity,

evasion, lies and has fasled to live up to his contractual obligations

to consider others. Stress is laid primarily on the Subject's use of

fraud, stees his beavy drinkings shich night tond to discussions of

classified inforation, possibly in his possesaion, vith unauthoritec

persons and the fact that he la apparently irritated when he does not

have hisuan tay. These characteristics vona concelyably alfect

anyo

contract or agreement into which he

would enter with this agency.

In riew of the fact that the case officer has advised that he

would Perverd a monorandon cancelling the requent for a clearance,

no recomepdation ds bellered necessaryo

Bowerd

SECRET

Security Information

---

