# 104-10103-10171

## Page 1

104-10103-10171

OMF .

CLASSIEICATION

SECRET

MASSACH HAN ILING INDICATOA

DAYS-TIME OFOUR"

becaria

1. 4,

DC/COG

CONF:

INFO:

1053,

c/012,

5.

PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATIONWHA

8. 0/EUR

ATTENTION: INTD CI/3

9. 0/EA

1/ NEAF

MaTUMA TO

027669

DISSEM BY: 77

PER GOT

#132

CIR-316/01466-77

verbal

SUBJECT: RESPONSE TO FBI REQUEST CONCERNING VECIANA'S RELATIONSHIP

WITH CIA

1. WITH REGARD TO YOUR REPORT OF YOUR INTERVIEUS ON & AND 11

APRIL 1977 WITH FELIX Z A BAL A MAS AND TO YOUR ORAL QUESTIONS

TO US CONCERNING STATEMENTS MADE BY HIM ABOUT VECIANA IN

THOSE INTERVIEUS, THIS AGENCY HAS REVIEWED ITS FILE ON ANTONIO CARLOS

VECIAN A BLANCH. AS STATED TO YOU ORALLY AT OUR MEETING ON 13

APRIL: 1977ª THIS AGENCY HAS NEVER HAD A CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH

VECIANA.. ACCORDING TO OUR RECORDS, VE CI AN A CONTACTED

THIS. AGENCY ON THREE OCCASIONS TO DISCUSS HIS PLANS TO ASSASSINATE

FIDEL CASTRO, ON THESE OCCASIONS, OUR OFFICERS LISTENED TO

VECIAN A BUT EXPRESSED NO INTEREST IN AND OFFERED NO ENCQURAGE-

MENT TO HIM AND NEVER RECONTACTED HIM ON THIS MATTER- THESE CONTACTS

OCCURRED IN HAVANA IN DECEMBER, 1960, AND IN NEW YORK CITY IN JULY

1762 AND APRIL 1966- THERE ARE NO INDICATIONS IN THE FILE THAT:.

DATE:.

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

MELEASING ONICES

COOIDINATINO OFFICHAS

AMIRA 390 784TA 884362

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SECRET. Cange

y Is aral request

AUTMNNTICATINO ORMICIO

E 2.

IMPDET

CL BY: planau

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OU-GOING MESSAGE

AGE

OMF D 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

HESSAGE HANDLING INDICATON

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

COI

ACH

TOO

MARO

0

0

0

DATA-TINA GROUP

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DCI

SAO!

FACES

0

CIA

027619

DISSEM BY:

1о INDER:

CAT ANY AGENCY OFFICER IN CONTACT WITH VECIANA

EVER USED

ALIASES OF MORRIS BISHOP, BLAIR OR KAIL; OR EB} ANY AGENCY.. OFFICER

IN CONTACT WITH: VECIAN A WAS NAMED BISHOP, BLAIR OR KAIL:

ACCORDING TO OUR RECORDS, VECIANA •NEVER RECEIVED ANY FUNDS

FROM THIS AGENCY. Y

2. " AGENCY OFFICERS WHO SERVED IN HAVANA REMEMBER THAT THERE

WAS A MAJOR OR COLONEL. KALE ORK AIL IN THE MILITARY ATTACHES

OFFICE IN THE U.S. EMBASSY PRIOR TO THE BREAK IN RELATIONS. "

ALSO;

ONE OF OUR OFFICERS IN HAVANA WHO LEFT THERE IN THE SUMMER OF 1959

HAD THE FIRST NAME OF BLAIR."

3..: SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. EXEMPT

FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-O. IL652 EXEMPTION CATE-

GORY 58€23. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICA-

TION N

LA COMMENT: FBI OFFICIALS HAD PROVIDED COPIES OF THE DEBRIEFINGS OF

ZABALA MAS AND HAD ORALLY REQUESTED CIA COMMENTS RE THE AGENCY'S RELA-

TIONSHIP WITH VECIANA.

• DATE:

"RIG:

UT:

MELEASING DIRICER

ET

REPRODUCTY

COOrDNATING OPrICERS

AUTARNTICATINO DRACET

3Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROA ED

---

## Page 3

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

cini

0

THE.

BARO

Q

PACK

3

D

0

BSIFICAYION

ECRET

BAGE MANOLINE INDICATOR

ME SHAGE REFERENCE HUNTER

DATE-TIME GROUN

* CIA

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

DISSEM BY:

027669 0 0 PER

0

IF FILEs

#

CABLE SEC: PLS PROVIDE COPIES TO IP/AN FOR FILING IN 201-312966

AND 201-802641°

ORIG: : LA/COG/EXILE

X13251$ COORD: C/LA/COG

C/LAVOPS ERELIE, AGC/DDO EGOLDIN II CIVOG AFRIEDANDER, SAIDOLO

AUTH: AC/LA ELMUDEFT; REL: C/PCS/LSN-StareaL Ku44

fered on

Ellio Matti rem of tes (until

DATE:

SAlL/LAi

SA/DO/

C1/06-

Ten diat'

29 APRIL 1977

RCli

tatal..

---

