# 104-10180-10156

## Page 1

104-10180-10156

Decencer 1959

ESRSONAL DATA:

-NANE:

04

AGE: (32)jears.

1Q

• PRESENT ADDRESS:

• NATIONALITY: American.

PLACE CP BIRTH: Havana, Cuba.

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.: E

OO SOTIVE SERVICE NO.:

MARITAL STATUS: Married (21-1/2 ears) CHILDREN:(3 boys, 1 giri.)o8

• EDUCATION:

DEGRESS: Bachelor of Science, Master of Arts.

UNDERGRADUATE SCRK: Scientific-Medicine Program, majoring in

Psychology and sinoring in Blology and

Chemistry.

GRADUATE WORK: The Humanities, majoring in Linguisties and

Ilterature.

HOVORARY MENTIONS:

all graduate work done under

un cholarships and telloushier provided br

University and thel

рб

CAMPUS ACTIVITIES:

PLACEMENT TESTS:

Graduate Record

l Examination

Advanced Test Score: 670 (Upper 55 of National

Average).

—U. S. CIvil Service Commission

c0193-2

Military Intelligence Regearon Specialist:

Grade GS-7

nüeldigence Research Specialist: Grade GS-

orgien Affains cificer. Grade e3.

- LANGUAGES:

Conversation: English,

Spanish, Portuguese (pcor).

Reading: English,

spanish, Fortuguese.

Writiró:

Ergrish,

Spanish, Portugiese poor.

working knokiedge of:

French, Itailan.

CHARICTER REFERENCES:

706,08

706,08

706,08

Habana. Cuba.-

106,08

23)0N

---

## Page 2

14-00000

December 1959

WORKING EXFERIENCE:

U.S.A. - 1948-1954:

/. Sales

706

Professor.

обі

Spanish Department,

(Most of the above positions were held principally cor

the dare eat eat onal income while do1ng

HAVANA, CUBA - 1954-1960, Branch Sales Office for the following:

-- Asst. District Manager.

- Idem.

-- Idem.

Idem.

- Idem.

→ Idem.

This 1s a combined

handling the

individual business of each of the above companies in this

territory, and representing their interests in Cuba.

PRESENT POSITION AND DUTIES:

/ In this capacity I have been directly

responsible for all business operations of these companies

throughout the territory of Cuba.

It has been my duty to

promote the sale in Cuba of all items manufactured by said

companies; organizing representation in the main cities; appoint

distributors;

assist in collection of accounts when necessary;

direct the servicing of their products in case of operating

difficulties; supervise the handling of all of their export-

Import shipments; study

the market conditions and trends,

analyze competitive situations and advise the factories accord-

Ingly: cooperate with and advise local distributors in their

sales promotion programs and assist with important accounts and

increte in do the above neit on too nant sures.

• RECUNE:

Due to the economic ari political situation prevailing in Cuba,

and present restrictions on imported goods, I am considering the

advisability of making a change whereby I can improve my present

standing and future potentialitleg in accordance with my educa

tional qualifications and croven experiences.

I am only inter

ested in working direct for an American Company, either at home

or abroad, with

a starting base salary of about

$12,000 a year.

---

