# 104-10179-10441

## Page 1

104-10179-10441-

Icke

ABORANDE: CE CETAITICN

SIB." BOT

" looting viti so lanal tianolo" RAI

Instratod to assure RAXe

No that 30l persinally hold te 1a hieh rogard and

ches untle "we" are not breting any individuni or

pao is the politloal senso, to do have sympathy

wid dis progran and hie eins.

Be T'st sue" are proparod to muger hin whatover materia

That si 11e

sor alla purpose promontiy etisto, this ita not mean

• E'at 3?. RAY nood bo behoides to the Frento.

Thas ve understood la 1s piecing to rotura to Cuba.

se saal that this would be a ise novo, and

so juantly urge him to do so In this connootlo

a see propred to offer tis a cormundaator and otho

Bin': as assistenco so thas be can maintain contoot

vite sla peoplo.

Ro I had plazai to see fAI on hia rebere ston Puerto Rico on

che atterson of 1 January 1961, but the imminonoy of a break of

alplocatle mailuna botwoon the Irisal Staton anl Cube coopelle

me to rotura so Eatana on the soralag of j Janury 1961.

Consequanty, "y nooting with RAI was poetponed untll last erning

when an noraliant. was rade through iNGER to moot with bin

, * the latter's apartent.

Cur rootine arial epprortantely ltyne hourg - roughly Arnt 7 8o 10 p.I.

to covera! a vira mungo of mbjoots. " highlignte of rich

mall try to ever in sucosoding pungarha.

---

## Page 2

• .

to tuarte R100.

le rentioned that he hail a rory

Gov.!110% l'arin-for whan he exprossed pat namiratlos.

times during the evening'a seasion to Indloctad ta: he vould 11ke

to see the future Cube follow tho lath of resto 3100 end cout

omforrod with ex-"rosident of Costa Rica. ly. Jose iNCUEdS, whor

he found vory arnoosuulod with resoat to futuro developmente 1n

Lutin Amorioay tho Influnnoo which G.S.Ri still oxarts on tie

minds of groat mmbers of poorlo. Mi camentad that unile alpost all

of the povertant nou so CiSt! for viat la la. a cyaleal dictator.

there are nany, many people who still view his an a porular loader

who le trying to help his pooplo.

l'uch tere 11 the propagenda lino

1o nocasary he snid to presont Cistic to the poorle in a truor 11ght.

In thie connootion ho sald that the iRl' horos withln she next shras

sols or 80 to no juire bronlenoting facilitios In Costa Rica

mosunla and perhapa souire a ship fron ut 1ch ronaresia coul

be dimsoninatod.

S0 ATTITUE! TO ARD TE FRONTE.

RaY fools that the Frente has littlo

to offer the pooplo of Cubo for the future.

for oxesple. he seld,

there lo croat discontent In the Cuban Robal Ary which could be

oxploited 1f those dlasident olenents could ham sore assurenos that

hey wore Jaying den tolr lives for i vortrunile causa.

PLAY

loes not fool that the aotion and oomposition of the IRD Ing 1ros

Buch confidenco.

He dil not sention any nains spocifionlly arong

tho FUD wi:1oh would represent a "roturn to tha past" set ho 111

say that ono of tho Executivo l'embora (lead of a departient, I

ollove le how he put 1t, hod been a big time contracter durine

TISTA's rogine and that when RAY took ovor the 11n1a1y of l'ubl1

orka under Josident URRUTIA, ho learnod that this same contraotos

und proviounly prosantod a blil and callectod 300, 000 pasos for

publie works projoot which was never indortakon.

Instoad of having the

man jalled, RAY sald that le ae !'Inlator of Pub)10 Horts seroly

Insiated that the job be dono.

Ile comented that he (RAT) would

nou probably "have to pay for thia." I promme ho mesat that thie

part loular forson wild eventually soek sone type.of personal revenpo.

AI also sald that "mo of tho livo" albere of the 1i0 confidod to

him that he la not l'apry but there la little ho can do about 1t bacaume.

"he lo there."

RAY roponted son of the unal oritiatms of the FRD. -

"high living," potty polition, "enryboly roootring a salery." and the

"obuloun Inot" that the U.S, Covormont 18 ploting up the tab. I-18

he said was fino with the

•RY beauso It vas aouning 1141! 1U81ongd

Suhans within anl without Cube to tury to tle 'Re as the only rope.

No vas justo trunk in at tine that milo lo ls willing to "cooporato"

1th tho Fronto, ho dij not vant the 111' to boorme identiriod in tro

cuban mind with the Fronto, and thus Itsall hoo no tinoralitod etroust

"assoolation."

---

## Page 3

14-00000

PICE. BISE ATS 10S

"non I toly RAT that ve vero craparad to

provide him entorial support an! thee w-fle much of this caterial

mupport woali have to be deliverse by so Frento rothanis this wouid

not noosas9-Liy sure him babalden or j'aos his undor obligation to

the Fronto, he saliod and sull that this 1s what I say, but this is not

the way it works.

hed boen negotiating for an air drop to a group in the Booarbrays.

that ir. B, ral ame down and to thought their difforonces had bren

pretty ruch resolved, and is, 5, had toll tr. N9Va00 that there

had been a moating of minis.

at cotors, aid with owrything all sat

for the drop, to 18 - at the elevents, lour (ho said "thrao days 650")

told that the arms nust boar the stloter of the Frento, otherwise

"no urm8." Ls sald that tile vas abslutoly macceptable to tir.

He sald he did not Insiat or pertiourly ask that the runa be

Identifiod with "IR!" atioters, so tharofare he oould not me ary

Justifiention for inalating that the arma boar the TD lubel.

sale that his group has done all the operational planting for the trop,

courdere have gone baok and fort betwen lavana and the Esoarbrays,

nape have best drawn up. DI'a have boes erpengod. and now he 18

tald that the equirent which he had been told vas boing supp lod

to his proup must boar the Inbol of the rival "FID." It 1a obvima

that while va say that wa look uros the Ironts as a non-jolltleal

euping of marious oppositios tours, RAY looke uron tha Fronto as

the politioal crganization of Jony ViROM and I parsonally do 3o%

fool sanguino that any anount of arpimation will charge his

thinking in this rogard.

Here, ani elsewher during our coaversat'os,

I notad a certain a ouit of Intrenalgasee and la0% of toleranos on

the part of RlY which does not bode vols for. the future, unless he

can be male to malise that his group and following are not the sole

repository oi virtue, honesty, arretonos ant oal Intontions.

RAY

1s an Idealint. lo irono of a crocrato cubs, irao of corartion.

ruled by -en wo are selflessly ladloital to the renotion of she

prarel voltara.

bhan I sali to JAI that Tony VRChs and other

lenders of the 17D would say :hat they too stand for them tings. he

again salled and said:

"The curious thing ia that they lo not come

out and say unequivocally tint they stead for theme things.

Instead tley say ve ars Cubera - vo sre not Engllahmon, va ar not

Americans, ve are not Germans - vo ano Cabana. " What they coas to eny.

he went on is that solfis'ness, sose corrurtion, ot ooters, 18 psrt

of the Cuban nais up and that d'is tolne do osse 1t 1s unrealIstio

and improcloal to think that cuens oss dupiro to a lemocraoy

used on Intorfty and Macai lonasty such as vi have in the Inite

tates. or England, or other or civancod jo-oor sies of vestor

Surope.

ie fools thnt the rearle of Cuba your for such a denoernay

an t'oy lo not sos the chanos al hell' tont in tie composition au

cha Fronto. Taroloro ho wishas to si bair in the !RP thoes mon wors

---

## Page 4

14-00000

7.

reputations are cloan ho keit roferring,

to Police fasos, as a

example - and thus told

out to the Cubans In Cuba a hope of botte:

daya to cono - ani

Without a will to

CAS'RO w111 nary?

overt rown.

on the scale that 18 needed to sahlovo gucossa.

a v1ll con stan.

Conse quantely.

1t 1s un to the IP to inspire the

confidanos of the reople by bringing topsther those persona and elezenta

whom the people trust and no are not identified with the corrupt

past.

The paople o? Cuba, he said, carnot atand another iisappol tment.

Their hopos must not bo raisod again, only to suffor another batrayal.

PRUVISIONAL GOVERIJAY. I broucht up tho subject of a proriaional

rovernant. o gor rment in exile, but irefaced oy marka by saying

that I was

anly exprossing my personal views

I said:

"Don't you

roel that the problen of mose atlaker goas cn the sis drops, and tho

gela crodit for this or that.

would to resoird 11 sa lasembly of

Opposition Groups very to nost and to denocratically alect a provinional

goverment, composod of honest, compotent nan of mispeachable rooord.

which rould ropresent all the divered opposition groups and which would

raise the hopes and proviue the 1111 to fight to the Cubana In Cuba

who aro anorton and confuaod with reapot to the futuro?"

He said ho uns opposed to s coalItion roverent rade up of repremontatives

of various political partles as a provisional

govermient bocause he

was sure such a goverment would not be ablo to provide the united,

honest, nor-partisan type of leadora: ip which will be roquired following.

the fall of CASTRO, He vould profer a goverment of "intogration"

rather than a goverment of "ooalition.", By that he said he neant

that the best qualified non would be askod to serve their ountry In

an apolitical capacity. That these mon would be nesred by theis

axperienoe, cor:petenca, reputation, eto., and little or no condern

mhould be civon an to thoir politionl affiliations. A govorient

compoood of such -an would quickly win the respect of the Cuben porulations

them men oould pot on with

the job of 1d astructing the contry,

completoly subordinsting partisan politieal conside-stions, since

such zen would not be po'itically mmbitious,: "oreover, & governent

oopossd of much, outstanding ren would vin the omfidenos of forign

ountries which would be nore disroped to grant loana wilch will be ar

urgent nosesalty for the vry stut.

So far as the rograment 14s011

In osnoorsod, It vould bo apolitical. The various so'itloal partion

and thair lealers vould ba fine to mararo for the coming eleations

whether they bo in 6.

12 or 18 rontha. at which tino the Cuban people

in proe alectiona could locido vilos po'itloal party it vanced to

govern the country.

J asked RAY wo would coloot thoss son

And at stet junetung of the

atrugale againot C'5.R0 viud a proslaional comrasert, airear.

a little fussy - probably Intortionaliy -on Chia polnt.

to clonly

indiertod that none work hal alraaly boon accooplishal on the nattor

---

## Page 5

14-00000

of apprond-ing illely onndidatoa.

He said more would be don in

i asked 1i tila vce to be a inf s'ow - or vothol

he le ders of the Fl and other Cuban olaronts would ba consulted.

tie Indlostal that thia was the plan . that paneral apromont would

be sought - sal shat all groups would be fre to sugest candidates.

Howover, to felt 1t was quito rosaible, for example, that the mD

could sugress candidatos who vould not neat the furiot atanderda

sas and would havo to bo rofooted. He was sot cloor

as to uto void erreied this power of voto - but I gather that he folt

that the IRP WIch roprosonts or will rerosent (in his sind) tho

party which comands the greatest rosrect within the country, would

exercise this prorogative.

Aa I say, ho saa a little fuszy on this

point he rny not have wished to tip iis hanl. or he may have folt that

1t was a little penature for him to discuss this unttor at moator

B.. CONSTITUTICH 3E 3940.

to rotain the Coastitution of 1940."

this question bas been put to hin befors. Often bolliparently.

Howover, he said, each time that he has axplained why lo foolo that

the Constitutioo rust bo ravritten la has anded up convinoing the

person in ques:lon that cortain fantures of the Conatitution of 1940

aro alther imartable, under oratio or obrolete.

ponle so rat wanted us our the Constitution have ovor road the

Constitution asl therefore do not know whit they are talking about.

Ho said the Coastitutlon le not 11lri the Anorionn Constitution

which sots out 1ts reoopte in general toras and covers basie

questiona of goverment.

document that astes goes into minuto detal?a of rules and roguintiona

which have no place in the basio low of the land.

vanted to male if absolutely clear that he "lorog" those provision

of the Constitutlon which ruarantoe Individual 11borileg, private

property, ote. Lovever, there are other parts of the Constitution

sich are lorrao seablo.

out, the Constitusion ro quires immediato paysent in ens..

He sald

In no country of the world has an agrarian progres boan carried out

with irmedinto arsh paymento.

Not only dood tha, govarment not have the

mongy to cany cut suet a rogran, but 18 it 11d it vouid result In

inflatios and a sarious dialoertion of the donoy.

The oleotoral

Jaws, he sald, are very complex

and those raleting to apportlomment

of the Congress era nly rosult in corruption, I rotaried

man thoy are vritten in suor a voy that they invito corruptioni

"ore thay that, they foroe corruptlos." He said under the

prossnt not 1o me as to sither be a niiidonatie or be able to borrow

200,000 pasos («a" chas aocurt oornitmonts) in orier to be oleotod to

He asid ta would lito to soo this art of the C-ostitution

vritton alorg the trarioss 11208. Also, he mid the lina salating to

the raíning of remence are aruhalo.

le said shet in anor to ne juire

monay for a glian mean, a apocifio tar sust ba arpllai designed

---

## Page 6

4-00000

to provide that money. He sald that what is nooded are fevor taxoa

but moro sonoral tara which will provide the rovonue nooded withou

9.

10°

was a possiblilty.

but that it wouid bo toro praotioable to vito a

vorkable Conatitution providing all the fumentoes of a denouruay

bat oniting a lot of the irrolovant ant unvoriable featuroa of the

HIS FORS NA PLANS.

I said I undorstoal that he vas planing to roturn

to Cube and askod

If thia as corroot.

Ho sald ho and others of t1a

stop plan to return at the appropriato timo but first la vantad to be

suro that he hal nallod don certain political and support mattors here.

He said ho was hopeful that tha "nolitieal" consideratione - which he

Indiented (without alrification)

vors going quite satialuctorily

would bo satisfactorily sonaluded in "two wooks or so."

WESING.R

asked: "Do you rean after 20 Januury"" R.Y emilad but made no reply.

He sald that he hed hopod that ho had sottled the matter of the loglationl

mpport when he talked to tir. B last, but 1t now appoore that it la

not settled and that they may have to return to Cube without thia

support

He said ho was leaving for Now York on 9 January and would

cousin thore until Saturday, 15 daruary.

lio sald he oould be roschod

through Raul C:IB.S,

I told him that I thought le should roturn, as

soon as he oould, and that wo vore repared to sisist hin in evary vuy

possible, Incluling providing lim with s'comuloator. He sald we had

alroaly trainod a com untoutor for his soup who hud been inflltrated

Into Cube and ho windered were that man was at tho prosant tire

whether in luvane or the hille.

leither I nor WIESINGIR could enlichten

his on this point, exoopt to say that he us safoly in Cuba.

During the entire inter low. with no axooption. RY vag hie unual

quiet. more-spoken cold.

Hovovor, ho 1i1 g'ou eiotion when he asled ne.

11' I thought omeone ma tryine to sabotar hin offorts to mirply the

rosistanos groups in Cuba, For exple, he firet brought up

and it

was most obrious that it le a rattor of great conoory so tis. the

mattor of the plano, maps, oto., for the IRP aotion arainst the Isle of

Pinos.

He said a carefully coonlinated plan had booniald on.

That

shazull disouased it with "Inny," That DiRIN asked yog 1f the

map and othor pupors could bo iollerod in Cube within 43 hours.

"JIry assured BARJUIN that they oould and BIl?'IN landed then ovar.

RAY sald that BIR WI'i orred In doing this as thay bad there oun

Pao111t1os for transitting the rapers.

The payers navor arrived at

their dostination, nor have thoy avr boon board fro arain, As a

consojuance, a plan of prout luvirtanon had to bo adarlonod, und an

Irroplacoable opportunity loat.

io was extronely agitatod ston lie

talkod of this rattor and althoupt si! 23 and I attemptod to

ascurs hin that to vas at hone abolaral aal tet there vere no

"oar'unlota" trylne to rustrilo !1e colvitlos, to not:eless 1a

---

## Page 7

14-00001

-7--

11:

worked up on the lasus and will not bo content until he has a

matiafactory explination.

* 580 ory nod a to think

minute?" He was aired nothine could bo farther fres the truth, but

still this to a conorote example of lia ballof that ha has not raceived

tha support that he has boon load to beliove ho will molve.

IRP IT A:JACCS ORGANIZATION.

group being organland undor HISSING-R's puidanco.

oould not airo this mattor his undivisod attention.

nd sald that s'"wiN has boon eiron no othor romonsibilitles. bu

hat he has sought out othor regiossibliltles on his oun union an

tine taking.

assigaing a

n the nuts and bolta.

12.

to carry out orders.

that he could bo proponitioned on the aubject.

The neating broke up arter ten of cook.

oonaequence.

aftor consultntiona, sight wish to soo hin again.

too mart via god sot Wangton de Banda wo

reloone another got-togother and that I could roach him throug

CHIBAS during the ourrent woek.

---

