# 104-10296-10104

## Page 1

104-10296-10104

27 Fekindly 1961

SURECT: Alleged Batistianos Signed up for the "amps.

Manolo RAY telephoned se satarday aight to told me that he had heard

from his Miami contact that a nuster of FaNatianos had been recrulted for

training in the "camps" and some had alrealy been flown to the camp. He said

he was sure:

ho understood this resulted Mon isalejuate checking and thit/the presence

of thess peoplo at the camps could cause considerable troublo. He mentioned

only one name - Cruz Vidal - but said he sould seok additional info. Fallowing

Manolo's call I phoned

sini pissou the Into on to him. Ho was al-

ready woll aware of the problen and was esking remedial setion.

2.

On Sunday night, 26 Fetriary, Manolo calloi me again. Thla time le

road to me over the phone the nases of (1) a number of alleged undesirables tho

had been recruited and dispatched (2) a nunter who have signed up by who as jot

have not been accepted and (3) nanes of ripple uho are involved in the recruiting

without necessarlly implicating them in ary questionable actility:

A. Those recruited and disnatched.

*1. Rafael Soler Puis

2.

Remiro de la Fe (eri. "l Immasto)

#f3.

Candido Mora Morales - (gangster)

14.

Carlos Yanoz (neates of Santlago Bey)

5.. Armando Galles Venendes (buy guard of Santiago Rey).

1

Harry Perez (capiusin in fatista's pollee)

7. Felix Birubides iformerit of the SIM)

B.

Those who have rests.ered for training

1. Rolando Vasferrer

a. Inu Martin Peres

3. Cruz Vidal

• Gen. Diaz Tamayo

Col..

Ceferino Rairigues

6.

Maj. Montero Dugua

7.

Inu Montero Diaz

1 8.

Ex-Col, Martin surres

9. Jesus Lonzaler cartes wi si ax°rano

menher of a d."-1 rugster

Col. Carlos Sen Mirtir

11. Sgt. Roberto Hemindes Gruest(f) = man who mintered

Dr. Escalona

C.

Connected with Recruites

---

## Page 2

Dagororto Darles (works in Rozlat"

Antonio Pedraja -ex-M19*3 UTTICAL

carlos Varas - bro-subdoi o! Col, Cosme Varas

Ur. Antonlo Lamal Forras - ex-Director of Masorra during

Batiota rogise - = crook

no ace, called "Jing" - sha la "Bocond chier of travai

Felix Cutlerras = used to sork for Fidol during Batista

regime = now 2nd man to Sanjenie

---

## Page 3

14-00000

https://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number:

JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10296-10110

CADRE Ref ID: C00562975

Pub Date:

02/14/1961

Pages:

2

C00562975

104-10296-10110

SECRET

100 of 105

1/12/2015 1:54 PM

---

## Page 4

ASCROHLMED

MAR I 1961

¡ DOCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE

TO

•- Plrootor

Mr. S. do Papadali

* Deputy Director (Placa)

ésar sleepes

J4lad ladies

1. Porareude 1n mado to your senorandua, anted 23 Devastor 1960.

stitlod uhou Intollicanoe clirition in the Voltod Stron " la which

subject prordded Information an he, Labra 6-2 orgalention miss

2. Residiay referenced morandus, the followlay dot, d-lod

Jan-Ty 1961, una providod by a fairly rollahlo source sho has astenaire

controts da lubnu angro ciroles la the Hori, Flordão arar,

The Movialento Revolucion ro dol Buchlo (MR°)

Carday

and outland rilltry trinin ga on

Ira locatod El Beuer Prive, lonestord, Fiorlds,

shout sour blocks trou a far owed by hoto

The following menbars of the hi

roportraly wore rocalrius.

trolsing:

TranolECo UN: AGO Isan rodry

Rotert@us+s|18503201-289206

B. On 10 Irmory 1961, Sourde reported tart the KRP Eroup wea

dianatné to nove to rother trining aito soon. Source atriod ba rould

end o-por

to deteralao the loantlou of the new aron.

SEGRET

ittfiel

19-120-22

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Do Tour ottention da Lavilod to the ame of Rolado MOR LIS

Boyaraolo, mboro, who my possibly be identien to the Ricardo 'nibal

MORALES inmirate of your menornadun,

The above informtion has bean ande artleble by representative

I thin renay to the Minnt flola Orfica of the Vedoral Durina a

Invontigation.

(861-3/763.999

80

6 Tebraary 1961

Distribution:

• Addressed

1 - CI/R&A

- CI/LIA

1

WH/4/R

2 - WH/4/CI

Based on! UGA 616, 13 Jewsry 1961

19126-22

sof7.t-li1

- 2-

SJET

---

