# 104-10175-10107

## Page 1

104-10175-10107

"..

15 October 1982

MENORANDEN FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT

Flola June COBB, C-83492

Boterence:

Request for Infornation and Bevlew,

B Octobar 196:

1o As requested in the referenca, attached

so to a as as on dura is

Viola Juse COBS.

(Please roturn this file

WH/3/Lexico for Subject's 201).

%.

Staff D collatoral inforation, muted

through C1/0A on 9 October 1902, provided no

derogatory infurnation that is not Included in

Kiss COBB'8 201 1110:

expulsios fron Guatesala

In Noverber 1961 after proof is obtained by the

Goverrent of Cutesala

"that she vas a Castro

agent wee mission in Guateral mas to distribute

prO-Castro and Comunist proraganda arong univeredty

students"; translatur. of a boos vritten by forger

Gustenalan President Juan JoSe AREVALO, "The

Fable of the Shark and the Sardines," which aesalle

Foveront sid business in the United Statos.

3.

Delow Is a sumary of Inforsation Iron

Subject"s 201 pertinent to the reference,

attachnenta which are to

with

be returned to Mi3 erico

fOT

inclusion in Sabject's 201.

Since Mexico City

Station has consistently provided inforation

concerning Subject and her relation to Station

operations and af-ats,

no further ficld traces

»111 bo requested unless roquested by your office.

Viola June COBB, bore fa PoLca

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET,

Page 2

city, Oklahona, on 24 August 1927, loft

bome

for Rexico City in 1947-48 alter

her father renarriad.

She has since lived

In Scundor, Cuba, and Mexico, and has

bean involved with the sen and politica

of a number of Latin Countries.

These yes a tence one not o

Irlonde und accuaintarces,

both U.S. and

Latin, that Includes political leaders.

Journalists, diplorets, and sen and women

Iron a number of professiors, sose of

1 to 0 0000

Her taste in frienda

is ornivorous and

sto embraces (sosettaes literally) and

has accesa to extrenists fros both right

and left political croups and tas variously

been accepted and distrusted by both pro

and anti-U.S. interest groups.

(See L1st

of Associates, para. 3, d, 1, below).

First

contacted by a KIBARK Stall Sployee in

Habana in 1900 chen she ms employed by

the goverment of Fidel Castro, she reported

on Cuban personnel and activities until

she left Cuba and for some elze altervard.

She mas picked up by leico Setion in

Deceaber 1951 when she had lost her access

on the activities and thinking of various

Intin pro Cosmurist revolutlorarles

Including(LIXLUCil a Comaunder Party.

penetration who is ber current lover.

She has lotentionally or

unintentionally indicated ber caployuent

with the O.S. Goverment to a ncaber of

Intinates and ecquaintances.

Persons

suspecting ber association with U.s.

Intelligence include the following:

HorAcIo GODOY, Argentine lau prOfOstOr;

SECRET

---

## Page 3

: 'E

"'".

....

• seria vest ee ten.

at an

Page 3,

Bayless HATTING, Yale University law

vas assoctated Eith illllas A dorgas

osalbo ROCh, Close friend in New Yor

ho is a citizen of the Dosiaicar Repablie

and Diane ALEXANDRIA,

New Tork Clty on residest visa.

" March 1962 she vas called before

the Senate Subcommittee on interlas

Security and questioned on Cuban associations

and activities.

To our knowledge,

sbe

did not divulge any

coatact with Eurass.

B a result of this bearing, Boe wa

contacted by Drew Pearzon's assistant

Jack Anderson, and the interview resulted

in an article

1n Parade, the Fashington

Post, 12 August 190%.

1. Attached to this menorandu an

•he following documents fros subject'

2G1 (to be returned to ia/3/lexico):

List of Associates of fiola June

COBB. (1960)

2. Menorandum to Ml/3/lexico, iron

WH/4/CI (on Scbject)

3. Menorandus for the Record (2 April

1962).

Cuntact report with Subject

concerning Senate Subcommittee

hearing.

Article

on Subject from Parade:

"Heet June Cobb."

Caled, wa/S

Attachments: As stated above

Distr fut 10 iddressee, w/atts

11 - Subject, s/o atts

M8/3/Mexico

→ Fac/$5910 (15 Oct 62)

az daunti

---

