# 104-10172-10293

## Page 1

104-10172-10293

DISPATCH

Chlor, SA

(E7HA) 4557

22.

0 91901

Chief of bralla

DAT NY13

Go. oil: 13 5004129

02

ConsODE DAT, ParTa. I Bol ra

(Ti) 6223, 1 Dresses 1959

LiANA IDE

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

• Do Nat Reproduce

1.

Dy tara jol hafaronce uo ataled tial me. did not plaa lo purs fer a

brend sells boto for afrain: miraa son unique operallonal apportunity

Jon, thora 1a « proadsility that this altuation eat com

out/s hes cant word do express ber interest to origerly 0015s

1a

on bor obtaining a Chinass vias, as the annivermary of the slening as lle

Bino-soviet Frienda ip treaty sho puld a enli to the Chiende Conciate Se

told Chas of sor plana la Maniab, and they replled that mch a trip ma

Ehn local countet travel bureau.

She tbes plalood bor altertion Im

Malalaks sa a fulbrigal stadent. too Connal very polltaly told bar Chas Rare

Its rust underatand that there any be nome diffioully in bor obtaining the

ven ao an America bat Chat he vould be villlog lo roqueas pormlanion.

Bo almo seatod that she sant underneand that their tro couseries bad so

arMlelal rolnticos and that sto must aloe roquest permission fres bur co

ocaneryo sno anmored list sha mallued all saio but firal ma jun intorestod

In the possibilitles of such a trip, entor lasring the Consulato, ano stoned

Goluo to loll his abero ate bed been nod that mince ana know she soniora sol

Chinese mould be calebrating on las pureicalar evening that sho would be

Intaranted 1n baring sury ocuenta the Chianne Coasul night paos so to Cales,

OZcalub shoned 43/5 the next marning and told ber

that the tonio did een up

and that ho had told lao Chinese Coral that A41s fad also been to the sovlot

Consulato Inquiriag an to the possibilitles of trevolling acroes Che Trans

Siberian kallvy®

Golub atated that bo told the Chinese Consul that be

Alknew 11)5 personally and Chought meh a trip a good 1dod.

The Caleen Cornul

remponded thet there might ho a good abanoe for bor to got the vias end that

ha doubted 1f a Pesale stodont ecild do unch her la China, Lonnellon 0y

Orald B515 that they could arrango much a trip aa lood as le then vas in endor.

No realise the legal mad international diffloultles fros our alde 15 o

quosting much a trip dus vould o1111 under the circumstances like to have a

Headgartora roading on the altuation, lie doubt 18 thie la a realo travelled

very much and a pare obeorvatio oinaton alche be definitely vorth our sailo.

0281n00 (i/5 bas realmed an artoonion of her fulbright frant until aurlag,

she oould sake such & trip the opd ef tilg da darly reply would bo aparelated.

2. Prior lo dalub's departure

chat 1r abo agroed he mould like to Introduce hur to what sy formod the senten

palleleal offleer in the Soulel inbanK, VikSOr VLASIXIROY

Minted sa 20d

Secretary on the lif. List).

Calub explalned that aince do vould do louriag

Mnland, so would I1ko her to sout uho he ecsidored to be the "ront

Intellignat offloer la the Soulet imbany? and who vould enjoy earrylag e

Bho ecoverantionnl evaningali A115 mid shat aso bad so objections no lone

as le did not latertore wich bor a

whoad worke

A rey daya ago COLdS arranged

Jonahnon Per So Coreo of Chen st the lostlkartano Sostaurant 1n Mslatat1,

02 (75"a 1n161a1 Liprodnica al Mallairor vao Chat Do vas cald, bodinelle

diroct, and not a person ulta uno 18 soald be elay to becozo triesdo. Se

adsod bor sary parations about her seboal vort and hor echolarhis to 71aiando

Prior to leaviar Vladialro alalod lal Do voald like do sos ber co d rares.

0473 mananed inal abe erald not suer sate any plasa laat car la advance do

to the huary load of for morarch prejeet.

Madalroo roplied thal Caca ho

all call her setuper 0'30 and 0000 inrol a lo seo 18 she surld be preo Lat

montis is seld ano coals art precipe tas would so

6 Ta • 2 1 0/9009

* $3

te conne

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONIINUATION OF

DISPATCH®

in sorter arsalon celus aali do vould nry such alão to cetreates.

we sontou that he mald there one

mand all il kla lobbers chragh the alpliantle luch in bar.

Do call ber

bar lotiura la Vladisiror sho

11eo, abe fold Ma aba nsfected to giviry puramal lettero

Do sonecro lie Madiuire as she vas not seoustoned to having bar lotter

Golut rosroaded that he could puarantos her that to one vould opes

ber letters.

To saltar ros dropped.

21000 villas our last dlopatet on lis nad wolds, einir rolatserle

remised mehnaged.

Moro so at1ll en suspiéina or preasure placad on (44/s

so:so made any pocantle overtures, bhat

develop into le too early leo toll, dutie lout ntedlato diallie to

Cho latter und has no dealro to contine the vestiago as froqueally so sita

No will keep you informed ou the progrosa nod ronlise the algalfleanes

al set a contaos la relation to the proposed rotura trip.

W11lien Lo Costille

1 Eurch 1960

Diatribution

3 - ER

2 - h0E

5/5 bas just controted ua vith Bose added information concerning the

trip to Vladivoator.

On her last soeting with Golub she again brought ap

the trip and told hir she vas sorry he was leaving at this particular t1uo

as abe night deod his bolp in getting the necessary viad.

abe should not vorry sbout thia because he had given her name, along with

boze S0 pecer people a names, to the new Soviet Coneul. Ivan Sergere:

i9-1 (L

1420,, with Instructions that if and when they applied for sorel

vlass they could be approved lecediately.

"Besidos," ho addod, I 1ll

be on tbe Planish deal 1n Moscos and respondibio for the final spproval of

visa requesto sent fros tho Sortot kabasay in Helainkl." He aloo said that

be thought ahe roule bare no difficulty in getting approval to eo ta

Madtrontok where she could get airplane connections to Peking.

«logy with an earlier content cade by Viktor Legal that he belleted

Madivontal vould be soon mule an open city.)

as. a af1

---

