# 104-10122-10155

## Page 1

104-0122-10155..

1 2 JUN 1375

-WHENDUR FOR: Iuspector Genoral

#I%.

: Deputy Director Sor Adaiaistration

• *

Jonats Saloci Connittee on Incelligence

Operations

(a3es/Ros8111, et al Matter)

Roforenca is nado to a 9. June 1015 menorindus fzon

the Ad doc State, Ramber 333-75, which contains sir questions

Tasod by ta Senato Select Comictea.

lith specific Isference

I questions guered to nad three of referenced razorindon,

propriate Difice of Securizy silas hate been roviewed wich

¡i following costles: :

gaoscion tro:

shat were Agency associations

Harris,

Valotel,

Eavard Dubois, Lixard Bubois' f1za."

A senIch of the Offics of Sacarity's Indicog

Emilan to disclose uny subjoct files identifiable wich

those individols inflor fim li3tsd zoove.

In con

Artant s. valatti.

a rarian. of the Orsica of

Socurity

• Elios rolating to Robert A. Maneu sad Joanny

2053111 sailed to disclose any avidenco that the Agency

had my solationship or association nich the above naned

indiriduals and/or fira.

"Jas Halter Fleapazzick saploysi

By the Aguacy in the fall o= 13697

so 11sma01 ladices Aloclosed an Difice of Socurisy

Side in cha none of Taltor l. Flezpatrice (529752590),

RETURN TO CIA •

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

STRET

T2 LIPDET

C1 5Y 211J13

---

## Page 2

SECRET

who is boliaved identical to the above uazed individaal.

= ravior of cited filo disclosed no evidence that

Walter L. Fitzpatrick had baen onployed by the Agency

in the fall of 1960.

The Office of Socurity file re

flects that tao first Agency interest in Halter L

Fizzentrick occurred in February 1965 shan he became

of interest to tha Contral Cover Staff In connection:

¡ith his onploynont as. the Office Manazer for Robert A.

Lazey Associatos in Mashington, D.C.

The Central Cover

Staft intorost in Ralter I Fitipatrick concerod on 313

utilizing the cover of Robert A. Maneu Associates.

Central Cover Staff canceled their interest in Fltpatrick

in August 1968.

Walter L, Fitzpatrick becane of interast to the

Agency azain circa January 1973 anen

the Donestle Con-

tact Sorvice requested the Office of Security to conduct

socurity checks on li. Fitzpatrick..

The rosults of the

security checks were reported to the Dozestie Contact..

the file does not

refloct the reason for the Domestic Contact Service

request, nor whacher. Mr. Fitzpatrich was over actually

contacted or utilized by the Donestic Contact Service.

With the exception of the above Agency interest, the

Office of Socurity file does not reflect any other

rolstionship or association betrean the Agency or

Halter L. Fitzpatrick.

The Infomation contained above in response to ques-

tions two and three of referenced senoraadun was obtained solely

fron Difice of Security files.

It should be noted that the

results of 1 1967 investigation by the Inspector General into

"Plots to assassinate Fidel Castro," including numerous nemoranda

collocted by tha Inspector General

during that lavestigation, tay

contain additlonal information not contained in lne Offics of

Security files.

It is belloved that among tha above inforsation

i:s the possession of tha Inspector General aro nenoranda wich

vore fomerly bold in the Orfice of the Director of Security,

and which vere siven the Inspector Ganeral during the 1957

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

investigation.

Further, it is understood that the information

currently in

the possession

"of the Inspector General regarding

"plots to assassinate Fidel Castro" has previously been provided

to tha Senate Select Cornittos on Intelligence Operaticas.

Charles N. Kane

Director of Security

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

I - DDA

1. - D/Security

1

•OS Registry

SSCIO File

1 - SAG •

OS/PSI/SAG

- Chrono

l: jan (11June75)

3

---

