# 104-10217-10099

## Page 1

104-10217-10099

"CARLE SESTETARIAT DISSERBIATIO'

CLASEIFIFO VESSE

S.s

REPROSICILONCE TO CODY PROMISICO

INDERS

Dres

11200

1

i:

Has or lifer: is

0 TRE 10

BRANCH

TION UNT

rus, vR cless, clanE ese ase cla, claz,

SECRET 2418247 FEB 70 CITE WNMIAMI 6588

PRIORITY DIRECTOR 1NFO

2iFE8 W030505

RYBAT TYPIC AMECRU

REFSI A. V/ZANS 6382 (L@ 29653)

•B. DIRECTOR 011496

1. AMSIGH-2 RECEIVED TELEGRAM FROM AMECRU-!

EVENING 22 FEBRUARY ADVISING THAT CUBANS HAD SPECIFIED

$68,080 EACH FOR APRIPE-2 AND JORGE VILLAVERDE. ALSO,

THAT NO FIGURE WAS SET FOR AMCALL-I BUT EVENTUAL PRICE

WOULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER THAN SED, BBB, AND THAT

— LETTER WITH DETAILS WAS FOLLOWINO.

2• MOTHER AMPANIC-7 TELEPHONED AMECRU-I PER PARA

2 REF B. AMECRU-L TOLD HER THAT SINCE LOVEST ACCEPTABLE

FIGURE GIVEN IN TWO OTHER CASES WAS $60,009, HE COULD NOT

MIGOTIATE AMPANIC-Y CASE AT $50, 098. HE COMHENTED THAT

HE HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY SEEN CUBANS LESS INTERESTED IN NEGOTIATIONS.

30 FYI: AMPANIC-Y MOTHER IS UPSET THAT 570, B0D

FIGURE VAS NOT INMEDIATELY ACCEPTED BY RUROCK. HOWEVER,

BINIARIS HAS BEEN INSTRUCIED TO CONTIQUE DEALING WITH

MER. ON BASIS THAT 550, BBQ IS CEILIG UNLESS AND UNTIL

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CASE SEETARY DISSENATO CUSSED MES -

'gE.

+*3560 8T

FILE, VR

ACTION NE

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 6588 SECRET

WE ADVISED TO CONTRARY, IF AMECRU-I BEGIRS PRESSING HER

ON $6B, 0DB, BINARIS WILL SUGGEST SHE REITERATE PLEA TO

NEGOTIATE AT S58,889.

dO WE, OF COURSE, HAVE NO VAY KHOWING WHAT

ENSUED CONVERSATION BETWEEN AMPANIC-T MOTKER AND

AMECRU-I BEYOND WHAT SHE TOLD BINIARIS; ESPECIALLY

WHETHER AMECRU-! SPECIFIED $GO, BEB TO KER AT OUTSET

OF CONVERSATION OR IF THEY CONNIVED TO PRESENT WHAT WHE

MAY HAVE THOUGAT AN ACCEPTABLE FICURE. • HER EMOTIONAL.

INVOLVEMEHT MAY WELL HAVE PREVENTED HER PUSHING $50,090

FIGURE WITH ANY ENTHUSIASM. GREATEST DIFFICULTY INVOLVED

ASSESSING THIS

IS THAT WE DO NOT KNOW FIGURE SPECIFIED

BY CUBANS; $20, 930 REDUCTION OF ORIGINAL $70, OBE QUOTATION

MAY REPRESENT LARGE SLICE IF NOT ALL OF AMECRU-I'S CAKE.

IF SO, HE PROBABLY WILL SETTLE FOP LITTLE LESS THAT

S6B, 000.

. FILE: 19-6-13613: 281-861863; 201-276088;

281-314480.

GP-

SECRET

-...

.. -

SECRET

$ 1

- ATT.

= 73

CLASSTY TO CITREBO.

HALF TO GOFERNS

O ARE RE

O RETURN TO

---

