# 104-10096-10224

## Page 1

104-10096-10224

FER

40

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE

COPY

ISSUED/ SLOTTER

ACTION

LA 10

ACTION A

TOTAL COPILS

SECRET

23118

IMPOET

BY: 006687)

AGENCY MESSAGE

CI 4, CA 4, SIA, SIA/IC, ENFR 5.

208158

E1 A4 97

PAGE B1

TOR: 26205DZ SEP 77

SECRET 281945Z SEP

77 INTEL

733

CIT-

22 95 0

TO: DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL INTEL REAM

SUPDATA: ERWAHDO FOR HOS REVIEW, PROJECT SLEEPER. SHORIZON 1

- FROM PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE, NOT PASSED LIAISON. NOT

FOR PASSAGE TO LIAISON, THIS REPORT SHOULD NOT EPT

NOT BE PASSED TO GNGRAPH. O.D. OBU N-1, INDEX:

BROWN, MUNROE.

FILE: 103-8-21 201-8378260. CLBY

058245.

-783.

FILED:

281945z

IN 416072

22952

285EP17 19 25

---

## Page 2

14-00000

30!9

iDITIONS

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE 28 SEPTEMBER 1977

IN

416072

PAGE 1 OFY PAGES

V'ARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEI

"he following report, transmitted from a ClA field station, requires review within the Directorate of Operations before being used

n any other document. or publication, or released outside the Agency. Pending results of this review, a copy is provided for your

advance information.

JISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

JISTRIBUTION TO: SDO

E-2 IMPOET CL BY 007622

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY: "CUBA /JAMAICA

DO !:

SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1977

SUBJECT: CLOSED MEETING OF MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY

OF CUEA AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON ON

24 SEPTEMBER 1977

ACQ:

JAMAICA, KINGSTON 120 SEPTEMBER 1977 REPORT NO.

77337

SO UR CE:

A CUBAN OFFICIAL VISITING JAMAICA, HE WAS PRESENT

AT THE MEETING DESCRIBED BELOW. ALTHOUGH IT IS

BELIEVED THAT HE ACCURATELY REPORTS WHAT HE HAS

BEEN TOLD, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

1, ON 24 SEPTEMBER 1977, ENRIQUEMONTERO

LEZCANO, MINISTER-COUNSELLOR OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON,

ADDRESSED THE REGULAR MONTHLY MEETING OF THE MEMBERS OF THE

COMMUNIST PARTY OF CUBA SPCCI ASSIGNED TO JAMAICA, MONTERO

WAS ACTING IN THE PLACE OF THE CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO JAMAICA,

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

INITIONS

IN 416072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRE

(classification)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION: AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

RAMON PE Z FERRO, WHU RETURNED TO CUBA ON VACATION ON

21 SEPTEMBER, THE MEETING TOOK PLACE AT THE EMBASSY,

2, MONTERO SAID THAT INTERNAL DIVISIONS WITH IN THE

RULING PEOPLE'S NATIONAL PARTY (PNPS OF JAMAICA HAD RESULTED

IN THE RESIGNATION OF DIK. DUNCAN AS PNP GENERAL

SECRETARY-AND MINISTER. OF MOBILIZATION. MONTERO SAID THAT

THE APPOINTMENT OF RALPH. BR OWN AS THE NEW PNP GENERAL

SECRETARY HAD BEEN GENERALLY WELL-RECEIVED WITHIN THE PNP.

MONTERO DESCRIBED BROWN AS A MATURE, EXPERIENCED PARTY

DEFICIAL WHO WOULD BE ABLE TO SERVE AS A "MODERATOR" BETWEEN

THE "RIGHTISTS, " "MODERATES" AND "LEFTISTS" OF THE PNP.

3, MONTERO COMPLAINED THAT THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD

EXFLOITED BROWN'S RECENT TRIP TO CUBA FOR ITS "CAMPAIGN OF

CONFUSION", IN FAILING TO REPORT THE PURPOSE OF THE TRIP,

THE PRESS IMPLIED THAT THERE WERE UNKNOWN, SINISTER

MOTIVES BEHIND IT, MONTERO SAID THAT BROWN HAD GONE TO CUBA

MERELY IN ORDER TO ATIEND THE FIRST CONGRESS OF THE CUBAN

COMMITTEES FOR THE DEFENSE OF THE REVOLUTION (ODRS, TO BE

HELD 24-28 SEPTEMBER, MONTERO SAID THAT APPROXIMATELY 25

FOREIGN COUNTRIES WERE TO SEND DELEGATES TO THIS CONGRESS.

ET

---

## Page 4

. 3007 DRSOIETE PREVIOUS

IDITIONS

IN 416072

TOFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECR

(classification)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(FIELD]COMMENT! ACEORDING TO THE PRESS, BROWN LEFT JAMASCA

ON 23 SEPTEMBER FOR A THREE-DAY VISIT TO CUBAI THE PURPOSE

OF WHICH WAS NOT INDICATED. ON THE NIGHT OF 27 SEPTEMBER,

IT WAS REPORTED ON JAMAICAN TELEVISI ON THAT BROWN HAD MADE

A STATEMENT CONCERNING HIS TRIP FOLLOWING HIS RETURN THAT

DAY TO JAMAICA:

HE SAID HE HAD GONE TO CUBA SOLELY IN

ORDER TO ATTEND THE COR CONGRESS, AND HE CRITICIZED THE

DI STORTED MANNER IN WHICH THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD REPORTED

ON HIS TRIPS.

11-4, MONTERO BRIEFLY ADDED THAT DR, TREVOR MUNROE,

• LEADER OF THE WORKERS' LIBERATION LEAGUÉ SULLI, TRAVELED TO

CUBA FROM JAMAICA ON 21 SEPTEMBER, HE DID NOT INDICATE THE

PURPOSE OF MUNROE'S VISIT TO CUBA, FINALLY, MONTERO SAID IT

WAS QUITE PROBABLE THAT BELARMINO CAST ILL A MAS, CUBAN

VICE MINISTER OF CULTURE, WOULD VISIT JAMAICA DURING

THE SECOND HALF OF OCTOBER.

5, MONTERO CALLED ON ALL POC MEMBERS TO BE ALERT FOR

ANY COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES AND

TO MAINTAIN THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF SECURITY,. HE SAID

THAT CUBAN EXILES RECENTLY SANK A CUBAN BOAT OFF THE COAST:

ET

---

## Page 5

TONIONS

IN 416072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF M PAGES

SERGET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS. INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classication)

OF PERU: HE ALSO SAID THAT CUBAN EXILES SUCH AS FNU DIA Z

LAN AND OTHERS. HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, MONTERO DID NOT ELABORATE:

D: LEIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT KINGSTON CAMBASSADOR ONLY,.

REPORT CLASS SECRET --WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS: INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION.OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR, CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING

DEFICER, XGDS =2.

• *

---

