# 104-10186-10342

## Page 1

104-10186-10342

+ (

UNFORMATI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENLE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPORT NO.

DATE DiSTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTPY CUba

SUBECT. Oreste VARELA (altag "Odon" )

CS CI-316/00830-65

10 February 1965

1

CSCI-316/00252-64

21 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

RETURN TO CIA

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

Background Use Only

DATE ACO. December 1965

HELD REPORT NO.

Do Not Reproduce

¡MIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEMIMITER APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a

series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of this agency.

it is requested that the addressees take no action on any ol

the individuals mentioned in

personality reports wihhout

first checking with this Agency.

1. Oreste VARELA, alias "Odon," is the Argentine desk officer

in the Direccion General de Inteligacia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

1s a captain in the

the Sterra Maestra,

VARELd,

& Caucasian,

was born

bout 1930, is five fee

cight inches

tall, weighs

150 pousds, and has short, broun tair..

Ileadquarters Comments

1. Aside frou the information forwarded in the above referenced

report, this Agency has no additional identifiable information

On VARELA.

5

4

3

4/06

3

2

SECRET

¡O FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

REP

CINCLANT

‚Nute: Field distribution Indicated br" ==)

I NAVI

CINCSO #

INSe

I&NS

XXX

I OCR

FSI 2

INFORMATION:

REPORT

NEARMA HIONSRFPORT

MI SA/EOR 1

BH SA/MOGL

NEAR 11

12 SUCI 5

PUL KAVE

HE SR

LICULIA

12; CI/REA

HIE

fLe HASH

RIDIAN

(1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

UFGA 19020(9Sec64)

NO PROJECT (ANNUO/L)

CSCI-310/0:5:30-65

COOFDIAATINE

95-50548

---

