# 104-10006-10268

## Page 1

110410006-102681.

FROM: • (Requestoro name) O

BRANCH

TO

TUBE

RID/ INDEX

DT - 5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT• 6

REQUESTER

RID/ ANALYSIS

GT - 7

RID/201

DW- 6

ROOM

ROOM

5a39

DATE

SECRET

BADGE NO.

BH 705

EXTENSION

7735

INITIALS

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

2 MAR 64

CHECK ING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/MIS

GT • 6

RID/ INDEX

DT-5

N

SURNAME I

KUZNETSOVA

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES

SUSPECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

Vanda

THER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership.

is cupation - messe

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

ITIZENSHIF

15SK

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

RESIDENCE

Lungsad, USSA

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; Information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if & 201 on

the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b)[] Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

ASSTEREEM

I YES

NO

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

БЕ КЕРР

are in RID/ARD, and

those that meet

TRID

DESK

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

Note 2. Information concerning foreign

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

public personalities (except mili-

believe there could be additional in-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

formation of value in these records,

x7997.

you must request an Archives Index

search.

DATE

/SIGNATURE OF RECOROS OFFIGER

---

