# 104-10142-10136

## Page 1

104-10142-10136

27

CIA INTERNAL USE GNI

SECRETC

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Friday - 3 December 1976

Chron

J-2

HSCA

77-0007/12

1. (Unclassified - BAA) LIAISON. Per Mr. Cary's request,

sent via courier, a copy of DCID 1/11 to Charles Snodgrass, Defensc

Subcommittee staff, House Appropriations Committee.

2. (Secret - GLC) LIAISON Called Richard Sprague, Chief

Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, at his Philadelphia

office, to follow up on our meeting on Wednesday and to tell him that

Mi. Bush and Mi. Knoche would be very interested in meeting with

Chairman 'Thornas Downing (D., Va.) and Representative Henry Gonzalez

(D., Texas). Sprague thought this was an excellent idea. Sprague said

he would be speaking to the Democratic Caucus on Thursday and he would

mention the good cooperation the Agency is giving the Committee.

Ialso

told him. that I would to have Sid Stembridge, DD/OS, come by and talk

1o him about security matters, including physical security measures for

Committee offices.

Sprague was interested and suggested that we come

by on Monday al: 10:00 a.m. Mir. Stembridge has been notified.

Later in the afternoon, I again called Sprague about the cable in

from Mexico City regarding the contact of Kenneth Brooten and Jonathan

Blackmer, also of the

Select Committee, with the Ambassador and the

Sprague said he had no intention or desire to have the Agency

involved in staff contact with the Cuban Embassy. He said he had

instructed them to make no contact with Cubans without the knowledge of

and the approval of the Ambassador. He said he contemplated the possibility

of the Ambassador making an inquiry through the Swiss on their behalf but

did not want to involve the Agency in the Committee's investigation. We

agreed completely on the matter.

3. (Secret - GLG) LIAISON Called Bill Miller, Staff Director,

Senate Seleci Committce on Intelligence, and discussed

several matters

with him, including 'Tom Moore's, also of the Committee staff, request

for information on George DeMorenschildt; tie Rescive release letter

on the storage of the Glomar Explorer; Elliot Maswell's, also of the

Committee staff, wanting to get in touch with some of our people on

thc: West Coast and supplemental authorization appropriations. (See

Merorandum for the Record. )

CA MUCH USE CH ST

BORET

20152

---

