# 104-10144-10012

## Page 1

104-10144-10012 FG. 2/78

TABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PER-

PARSON/UNIT NOTIFIED...

ADVANCE CÖPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RE. FILE

ACTION

OGC2.

T 369795

E1 A909

• TOTAL COPIES 20-2 RUN

SECRET

PAGE 01

TOR:1015537 NOV 76

NOV 76 STAFF

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS

PROHIBITED

STAFF

LEM

so Set Com

IN 095925

43052

SECRET 1D1508%

CITE

43052

TO: DIRECTOR.

RYBAT WNINTEL MASPLASH WOMUSE

1• PETE BAGLEY CALLED COS MORNING 10 NOV TO RELATE

FOLLOWING:

DDA. SeCuK, Commo

A, MRS, BAGLEY RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL 9 NOV FROM WOMAN

WITH UNUSUAL ACCENT FROM PARIS IDENTIFYING HERSELF AS CALLING ON

BEHALF OF READERS DIGEST; BAGLEY DID NOT KNOW WHETHER LANGUAGE

USED FRENCH OR ENGLISH, HE COULD CHECK WIFE.Y

BI PURPOSE OF CALL WAS TO IDENTIFY TOH. BAGLEY AS ONE

AND SAME WITH "PETE" BAGLEY, THIS IDENTIFICATION PERTINENT TO

ARTICLE WRITTEN BY FNU EPSTEIN, SUBJECT UNDISCLOSED, MRS

BAGLEY DEFLECTED INQUIRY AND DID NOT MAKE POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION.

C. EPSTEIN COULD CONCEIVABLY BE JAY EPSTEIN WHO WROTE

BOOK CRITICAL OF WARREN COMMISSION REPORT MANY OF WHICH CRITICISMS

DEFENSIBLE. EPSTE IN LATER WROTE ARTICLE FOR NEW YORKER CRITICAL

OF JIM GARRISON.

D, BAGLEY TELEPHONE NUMBER APPARENTLY OBTAINED FROM

LOCAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE,

SECRET

20869

---

## Page 2

7.91 MFO. 2178

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY:

_PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

EPRODUCTION BY OTHEI

SUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITI

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

BY

ST AFF

AT

RF . FILE .

VR

N

2

ACTION N

T 369795

EL A909

PAGE 82-02

IN

09 59 25

TOR: 101553Z NOV 76

43052

E, IF NEW ARTICLE IS BY SAME EPSTEIN AND IS ON WARREN

COMMISSION REPORT OR NEW INVESTIGATIONS KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

BAGLEY IS INVOLVEMENT VIA DONOR (PERHAPS DONOR HIMSELF, COULD

BE AT ROOT OF HIS IDENTIFICATION IN ARTICLE AND HIS TELEPHONE

2. MR. BAGLEY WISHES TO ALERT HOS TO ABOVE, BUT ALSO TO

BE ADVISED OF ANY INFO HOS MAY HAVE ON ARTICLE

AND IF HE TO BE

IDENTIFIED WOULD APPRECIATE PRIOR WARNING FOR OBVIOUS REASONS.

3. FILE DEFER. EZ IMPDET.

115354

SECRET.

---

