# 104-10180-10063

## Page 1

104-10180-10063

i !

Tuliberto fatero

..:

Mistintr/ba, impart ET., CD/00

2270

Ca8012, 315

13 Apt 65

RETURNTO QUA

Background Use Only

• Do Noi Reproduce

DO/OS

WB/C/FI

0h2 108

This 19 on your old osse on

FIlIbErtO Ray.

VBR

---

## Page 2

SUBST:

REF.

:

file

14-294-65

7 April 1965

Cuban Exile Activities in tbe US - Election of

Governient 08/3g 5x11e

(a case taroue Contributions of Filiberto Rivero

Intereat to

The Rollovin, and thesion e, presumbly are os

a meeting to eng one l eet to early or a 02 24-25

Mar 65 between

must be a familiar sane to' those Involved in Cuban activities.

meeting was taped, transcribed and edited, all of which took much

wore time than had been anticipated; ergo, the delay.

3. In resume, enclosure reports the background of various

attempts, or opportunities missed,

to overthrow the Castro regime,

Rivero's opinions of why tbey failed, and his intention of

inttiating a final try.

On the basis of encouraging responses

to a couple of spot rudio announcements in los Angeles and similar

experiences in Miani and New York, he has plans to poll all Cuban

exiles in Southern Califorpia. In a ratber well thought out electio

on Sunday, 25 Apr 65.

Qualified voters will select some 20 or so

anti-Castro Cubans from possibly 100 eligibles who, la essence,

Will represent the Cubans in exile and, when polltic, a government

in exile.

The enclosure sets out the

mechanice of the election,

anticipated activities

of the representatives in the US and in

latin American countries, the formation

of Cuban-latin brigades,

traintag l'acilities, and invasion preparations.

Since preparation of the above, Rivero advised on 7 Apr 65

that Prio bas proposed an alternate plan for elections on 2 May

or a group of 25 people to be chosen from a pre-selected 50.

will be 16 nominees of political or revolutionary background frou

which eight will be elected; 10 from the "new generation" - 5 will

be chosen; 3 from 6 industry-commerce nominees; and the same number

tros labor, the professions and the press.

The man with the greatest

number of votes will be the "Delegate" of the exiles, patterned

soberbat on Jose Marti's "delegate" status prior to the Spanish

American War.

The remaining 24 will be his

ZISR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

14-296-65

7 April 1965

5. Rivero regards the above as one more Prio device to

assure himself effective control of the exile movement'g

operations, and the election a dishonest affair in that

voters really have no choice.

6. Rivero, despite Prio's plans, 18 going ahead with his

own 25 April balloting.

He has since, with the help of former

uban jurista, modified as follove the plan as presented u

inclosure.

Sach of the Caribbean Governments willin

to assist in providing facilities (when the operatio

Pocal pointe for liaison, they will also have powe

to veto exile activity they believe not to be in the

through CAs for resolution.

• Rivero 1s discouraged by Prio's plana as well as b

hat he suspects are efforts by elements of the US Governmen

the cape la the even to terested a tie it free to bea

forward 1t.

• end o

Encl: Transcription Of Tape by F1l Rivero

- 2 -

i :.

MATTE

---

## Page 4

• %.

Enclosure to

1A-2946-65

5 April 1505

1. For your information, I am Filiberto Rivero. I an a citizen

of Cuba by birth; born 29 Aug

1913, and & permanent resident of tbe US

since 1949. I an married to an Americaa, have an Aperican daughter, and

I've lived in Califorala practically since I arrived in the US, except

for two or three short visita to Cuba prior to 1959. Al present I have

no political affiliation elther in 0mba. or elserbere, and I du not belong

to any organizatione hatsoever.

For a time, however, I vas President of

the Cuban Catholic Center in Los Angeles, an archdiocesan organization

created to provide Cuban refugees with a place to met, and belp ench

2.

About four jears ago I started a lecture tour, prompted by

people like tbe Kivunia, Chambers of Commerce, ete., to try to explain

the Cuban situation. For the last two years I have had a radio program

on Station MI%, Pasadena, Sundays, 1900-1930. It's a sort of nevacast

of Latin America called "Nuestra Ameries al Dia", or "Our Aberica to

Unte". In that program I do a kind of resume of the important evente

of the week in latin America, concentrating on Cuba. Cube is in the

headlines wuch of the time, legitimately is important nevs and is the

source of Important news; also I'm extremely interested in the problema

of my country.

I should also say that I an a strong believer in the

American system of government and wish that my little country could

have done as vell, f.e., had a two-party system with elections every

four years, after which they would bury the political hatchets and go

to work.

But it hasn't worked out like that.

I have strong views on

some points of Averican politics.

If I was a Republican I would be a

Liberal Republican; if I was a Democrat I would be a Conservative

Denocrat. That's as close as I can describe my political thinking.

One final thing, I have never been in jail and I've never been in

any trouble.

3. Now with that little background I should add that I bave been

the only radio or TV voice in Los Angeles attempting to explain the ups

and downs of latin Arerican politica and this has given me a bit of

recognition. Also since October 1964 on Monday nighta, from 2100 to

2400, I have had a program With A Mexican, Roberto Iglesias, who 18

an American citizen by convenience, in my opinion, that is, and not

by conviction, although we are friends, We started a program of

telephone conversations in which people would call and comment on

any subject on politics - national, local, or latin American -- 83

they pleased. This program, which is also on AwkW, has enjoyed &

fantastic and unexpected success, and it brought me to some additional

---

## Page 5

14-00000

bnciosure to

LA- 298-05

; April 1905

prominence in the latin community of Los Angeles. I might say 1t

bas also unde me a center of controveray. I've taken done strong

swipes at the Mexican Government because it did not go along with

the rest of Anerica in breaking relntions with Castro. By the same

token, I have also taken some rather strong avipes at certain areas.

Of the American Government for things done in Latin Averica that I

feel vere grave mistakes.

4. I consulted beforehand, however, with a number of people

on a personal basis to know 1f I had the right to discuss Averican

politics, since I am not an Anerican citizen. I vas told that this

was a free country, and that as long as I didn't violate any lava

of the country I could speak on anything I pleased, and that 1t

would be judged is regard to good taste, or bad taste; but not that

I was doing anything illegal.

So, being respectful of American laws,

I've taken advantage of the fact that I live in a free country, one

I like very much, because I think I'm doing some good.

5.

With reference to the Mexican community, In general, It's

natter of orienting a million and a half people who were born witi

a hatred of the us.

Hoot of those that come here from Mexico have

been brought up with a deep-seated resentment against the Yankee.

Our program has shown thie to be tremendously strong and I make a

special effort to tell them that the cause of their woes is not the

Yankee; 1t's their own lack of education because their government

for many years has kept them in a kind of an intellectual serfdom.

So, I'm not popular with many Mexicans, who accept whatever their

governmen: says is good for them.

I argue that you do not accept

the word of the goverment as the word of God; that you discuss

and argue with your guvernuent if you don't agree, and that 1s what

keepa the administration on its toes.

This in not the way it works

in Mexico which 18 not a denocracy, but a kind of & civilian monarchy

In which the monarch or the king changes every six years, but the

monarchy reigas on, that 18, the Partido Revolucionairo Institucional,

the PRI. So much for Mexico.

Now, regarding Cuba.

The reason I wanted to have a chat with

you 1s because there is somsthing imminent as far as Los Angeles 18

concerned, and due to our f'ricndly relations I vant to intorm you

beforehand so that you would know from me and not from the press.

I refer to the fact that we're trying to create what will amount to

a Cuban Government in exile.

This is aot news because it has been

going on for about three or four months, but what is laportant 1s

that I have jumped the gun on the leaders in Miamt, and am scheduling

- 2

..:

ONLY

---

## Page 6

Enclosure to

1A-25-4i5

5475111985

an election without their particula. approval, but vithout teir

specific disapproval either.

They have asked me to vait and talk

to Dr. Prio and the other leadera in Naul who are vorklag on this,

but I refuse to delay any longer.

7. Firet, let's angver one question - why a government in exilet

Well, everything else seema to have failed. Since the Castro takeover.

in Cuba the firat big thing I cau remember was the Bay of Ples. Hell,

that story in pretty vell know. The reasons why the Bay of Pige

failed I think vere covered beautifully in an article by a Cuban

this has been the most complete and factual article I have read on

I have double-checked with many Cubana who were

Involved and they tell me this account 1s absolutely accurate, except

for one point.

It does not say why the Kennedy edministration cut

down the necond and third vaves that vere originally scheduled.

Information I beard from other sources is that there vas a very heated

argument between Adlal Stevenson and President Kennedy. Stevenson had

gone on record that the firat wave of bombers that hit Cuba prior to

the Invasion vere flown by defectore from the Cuban Air Force.

Apparently he did not know that this was part of the overall CIA

operation. When be learned of this, I'm told, he got very, very

upset, being a pan of great pride, and that in his rather strong

argument wita President Kennedy about the point, be threatened to

reveal the whole plot in front of the world and resim as Ambassador

to the United lations 1" there were any pore such boubings. I under=

stand President Kennedy feared a scandal, and gave the orders that

resulted in the Bay of Piga disaster. 'I don't know if this 1a true

or not but I put 1t here because it makes a lot of sense and tenda

to relieve the Aperican Intelligence groups of the blame they've been

carrying on their sboulders since the Bay of Pigs invasion, but that's

beside the point.

The next big soment of Cuban hope of liberation was the

October 1962 pissile crisis.

We all know what happened there, and

many of us Cubans feel that the administration made another grave

mistake because rany very important people in the adainistiation

do not understand tbe rechanics of the Communiat mind. At the time

go-ralled eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation cane about

the Soviets promised to take the missiles out, and to permit some

international organication to inspect the island, etc.

the question 1s -- why did the Averican Government retreat or lift

= 3 =

',.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Enclosure to

PA-sit -65

5 April 1905

the blockade when the moment of danger had already passed? I under-

stand that many people in Hachington and the administration felt

that Khrushcher had behaved like a good boy, had promised he would

take his mostles out Immediately, and dissantle them, and that be

should not be pushed into a corner.

It was felt that if he was puebed

into a corner, possibly the Stallaint group in the USSR, prodded by

the Chinese, would overthrow Khrushchey, and then the US would have

to deal with a much tougher man and not good old Nikita who wasn't

too hard to get along with. All he had done was point a fev atomic

missiles at our beads.

In any event, ve Cubans felt that if the

blockade had been kept on for another few weeks, or until the inspec

tion had been made, this vould havo been so brutally shamcfui to the

Castro regime that right then and there, chances were good for an

Internas uprising while the United Nations or the OAS or the Red

Cross was there making ite inspection. At any rate, this vas a

fantastic upportunity that ma migard is sennons which perbaps

alstory say be able to take care of. So, that was second wisug

that talled In the Cuben problem.

9.

Toen, of course, ve can also mention the disaster of Miro

Cardona and his group which failed in the opinion of many people

because they were practically appointed by the State Departuent.

At least, at that time,

the State Monartment scened to want some

left-wing lesdera to take over Cuba.

There is no doubt that, Cardona

could be clesalfied as a Socialiat of sorte, or left-winger of sorto.

The disagter of Cardona was a result of the

Bay of Pigs altuation and

was & very unpleasant thing.

I think personally that Cardon conducted

himself wrong.

If be had been brought into President Kennedy's conf1-

dence, he should have respected that confidence and made a discreet

exit,

but not the big to-do he made which didn't accomplish anything

except to kill the hopes of other Cubans and to make President Kennedy

and Robert Kennedy very angry.

Anyway, Cardona's group had the original

cin of not being a legitimate Cuban organization. Moreover, there i0

another thing about his group which many Cubans have never forgiven

that is tiat at the moment of the invasion they were practically locked

up by hmerican authorities someplace in Florida.

They were supposed

to be allies but vere kept prisoners. I suspect the truth of the

matter is that the Americans who were running the show feared these

Cubans would talk too much and that their veing put away for a few

hours was just a roughshod way of protecting them against themselves.

But this left a bad taste because it proved that the eroup was nothing

but a puppet of the State Department, and Cubans proud of their

sovereigrts and

their nationalian didn't like It at all.

1 arrane

---

## Page 8

Enclosure to

1A-2j-65

5 AprIl 1955

10.

The next point on the thinis that have gone wrong in the

process of Cuban libertion 16 the fastestl, "operetta", and I say

operetta because we could call :: a tracic conedy, of Manolo Ray

and his beanderingo around te Caribbean. I had been In Washington

In March 1964 and in Miani In awary or Febrary 19% and I had

done a lot. of talking, and Interrewine, and investlgnting. When I

returned to los Angeles, aboss April 19th, I gave a meeting of Cubans

a full report of ty three-mon. trip on the referendum preparations

doing on

1n Miant, and my conversations In Washington with some State

Departuent people, With-Cuban ex ambassadors who still live In Washing

ton and a tremendous assortment of personalities. During my report,

• here 1n

Los Angeles, one of the Cuban

Leaders asked me what I thought

about fay's promise to be in Cuba, Lighting by the 20th of May. I

told him without any hesitation (and I have a tape of that meeting)

that there was nothing to be concerned about or hoped for with Ray

because he was

going to be on sose convenient little island in the

Caribbean with a photographer and a few Iriends and that would be the

end of hio promioe to invade Cuba. But I was promptly abused by a

member of the Junta (JURE) because be thoupht I was desecrating his

hero.

I told bin I didn't have aaytbing agalnst. Ray but that I had

enough incormation

to warrant s sajing that.

Of course, when this

actually happened just a fev veeis later when Ray was discovered on

Cay Angulla,

& British possessics, I was looked on with great respect

by the people at that meeting.

My reasoning that Ray vas going to be

found on an 1sland was juat the result of putting a low bits of inforea-

tion together and aoking mysels sy Ray had made the rash promise in

1903 that he would be fighting in Cuba or be killed in the fighting.

This was because of his famous, or Infanuus, scheme known as the

Judas plan.

The Judas plan to

refrest you vas one whereby the American

Governuent (when I say governbeat I mean precisely Robert Kernedy and

perhaps his brother) was to overcrow Castro Just before the ections

of 1954.

It came to be called ice Judas plan because actually it was

not meant to change the casie type of governuent, juot to replace

Fidel Custro with Manolo Ray.

Those of' us who studied Ray wondered

how much diiference there would be in the basic polltical philosophy

of Castro and Ray. I think thai ve can say vithout miasing the mark

too far tbat Ray would find a lot of support for this kind of thinking

1n soDe circles of the State Departoent and the American Governuent.

Then I had another reason to trini toat this Judas plan was real because

during my stay in Miami I learned toat several top officials of the

first nine months o° the Cassro governent, by then rerurees themselves,

had been contacted by people connected in sont way with others supposed

to represent the Central Inteiligence Agency. These foruer officials

...

..

---

## Page 9

Enclosume iu

TA -254-05

5 April 1005

of the firat year of the Castro soverndent bod been asked If tbey

would consider taking their ois positions 1i and whea there vas a

Cuban government that would be close to the original revolutionary

government - In other vords, fay and his people. This vas before

the absassination of President Kennedy. After the assassination,

which was in November 1903, I 138 In Floride and found that the whole

Judas plan had disintegrated.

The mein reason for it vas to bave

something resdy in case 1t has needed for a spectacular to give le

American people the feeling tbat its government had finally liquidated

Fidel Castro and then would go out and re-elect the current administra-

This whole operation 1s very involved, vould require bours so

It was dubbed by many the Judas plan because Judas was tbe

So, let'a go on to the next polat.

Ilo Ray floundered and was caught on Cay Anguila, In the Babanas,

a British possession, and as ve all know he was fined for sowething

or other and let loose. Since that time we haven't heard much exceyt

that he keeps going in and out of Puerto Rico, Miami, etc., but he 19

laying low.

As far as the Cubans are concerned, he's l'inished. let

me soy as A little sideline to the Ray situation: In & secret beeting

In los Angelec, Jose Estever, the JURE delegate, took an onth that Ray

was already in Cube. Later, when Ray was discovered in Cay Anguila,

Estever told his own executive group he had lied so that they wouid

not lose their enthusiass. The people who had been with Ray in Los

Angeles told Estevez that If lying was a way of life for JURs they

would back out, that they had left Cuba because Castro had lled to

them, and that they were not soing to take any vore lles fros any-

This was the end of JRs and I have their document which 15

extremely interesting, but this is unimportant now.

12. Now, let's take a quick look at Manuel Artine. In tbe

opinion of 95% of the Cubans that consider themselves in the "kaow»

Artime 1s & puppet, attacked to the strings of the CIA.

clothed and maneuvered by CIA io its wish and nothing else. tis is

• general consensus in all Cuban circles, so Artime 1s not taker

Artime, however, is a very interesting person, be's

a good speaker, and nice-looking, but I consider his thinking very

When he travels he takes several

or his strong looking friends along, and when be speaks in public

seem to watch the corners, and look very nasty with

their insignias and all.

the pleasure of asking Artine when

he addressed the prestigious Association for the Sconouic Reconstruc-

bone a pipe edent the te sure the me vas cas

used as a puppet for elesents

- Б.

-""-

---

## Page 10

Enclosure to

LA-214-65

5 April 1905

banted to keep Cube as a showplace in America to prove to the rest of

Amerist how bad Communion was.

This was one of the theorice making

the rounds in Washington, 1.e., the horrible exasple. To uy surprise

and a bis, there vas tremendous applause. I've got that on tape too.

I astel Artime 11 he was not a traitor to his country. le told me

that a san who had been condemned to death and been in prison for

two years was bard to deceive, which was not an ansver. But 1t

sounded very nice and I didn't insist.

Anyway, Artine at this time

we're ilking now on March 26, 1965 - I hear, has just completely

diseastled his operation. Since the unpleasantness in Costa Rica

which supposedly had to do with some contraband activities that

invoired the brother of President Orlich of Costa Rica himell,

Artice's group has been dismantled. Most of his people are now in-

volved in another operation developing around Minni and said to be

backed by the CIA or the Pentagon . I don't know which. When I

sas in Miami In January and February 1965, I found that there were

two swups of Americans hundling Cubans.

The CIA people who were

handling one kind of Cubans and then the Pentagon, apparently, was

maneutering another group.

I really don't know how wuch truth there

is to this. I was told that the Pentagon people were at odds with

CIA and that they vere going to try and get their own group of Cubans

Jus: to show CIA hoy it should be done.

Artine's people bave gore

to s group supposedly handled eitber by the Pentagon or by CIA.

13. There is another thing that I just found out in the last

Nost of the people who were getting checks f'rom CIA through

Its different devices had been f'ired and that there vas a panic

around Miani. These people who had been living and bringing up

tbeir fasilies with CIA checks were suddenly left out in the cold.

I don't know how much truth there ia in this either.

I don't know

what Artime 18 doing now although I talked to a relative of one of

Artio's close associates who told me today that there 1s a very

larse nove by the American Governuent inside of Cube.

words, the ideas of invasions or bit and run, and all that seem to

be passe. Now the big thing is the assassination of Castro and the

Insurrection Inside Cuba by people who are discontent, that 1s, the

Castro followers the CIA has been able to reach. I understand there

has been a tremendous anount of work done in the last two years by

Aberican agencies, and tremendous files compiled of sho in Cuba could

De counted upon at certain tines for certain things.

14. This is fine and dandy and who knows, maybe tomorrow we will

hes= tiat Castro has been assassinated and that the CIA plan has already

doze what it 16 expected to do..

I have only public information ard an

---1

---

## Page 11

Enclosure to

LA - 224-05

5 April, 1905

not privy to any secrets either in the Aerican agencies or in tbe

Cuban higher eckelona -- so, I don't kney, I just hear rusore.

1>. The next thing that kind of blew te afr out of the Cuban

exiles was the arrent of Menoyo of the Alpa 6ó, etc., group. Menoyo,

in the opinion of uny Cubars, 18 a political gungster ard a double

deader. he has the confidence only of his on suald group al rollovers.

Menoyo, from what I have keen told, jumped tbe gun on something else

that vas being prepared. His golng Into Cuba with tree ctber men

sounds pretty stupid unless Menoyo suspected or vas told that the big

inside push which is called Is Onda Anericana, tbe Anerican Wave,

was inninent, and he jumped the gun so that be could get lined up

before anybody else and take over the goverment. In my book Menoyo

1o not terribly important and does not have mich of & tollosing. He

has a few nice guys, but they're on the fringe of being cracispots and

dreamers, not bad, but mixed up in tbeir winds and bungry for power.

They call themselves revolutionarles but instinctively fear anything

that has a democratic process.

They want to take Cuba at the polat

of a gun and keep it that way. So Menoyo's capture la another blow

to the Cuban exiles.

aven ti they didn': like hio, they said, "It

Menoyo opens up a beachhead in Cuba, 'Vivs Menoyo'! se will do and

fipht with bim!"

16. So we lave Menoyo in his peacerul prison in Havana and

go to the last and saddest of the Cuban disasters in the exile

movement - that 18 the complete flop of the Rocs, the Representa-

tion of Cuban Exiles, As you inow, I was deeply involved in the

formation of this organization because I believed it had a chance.

The quality

whom I knew by first name, others I had grown up with.

of the ben behind this idea vere top people, no central

figure, Jose Bosch, head of the Bacardi Corpany, cormanda respect

and is a patriot.

However, Rous disintested a couple of wecks

aд0.

It might interest you so know that on 9 Jun 64, a few weeks

after the referendum was completed, I vrose a confidential, private

letter to Dr. Ernesto Freyre, lho was one of the five sen appointed

by the comnittee and approved by a referendua of over 40 thousand

Cubans. I told Dr. Freyre, my Old and personal friend, what, in my

opinion, they should do to

nake Rics successful. I told hia that the

first thing vas to ignore washington completely. I said, "I don't

have anything against the Amricans bue right now you bead an

organization that bas the approval of 90% of the Cuban exiles.

Use this moral support you have and try to create a real Cucan

outfit.

Li' you do, you'll get the backles of the Bacardi Corpany

and the million dollare 1t

aftered at the start.

Use 1t judiciously

8

---

## Page 12

14-00000

Enclosure to

1A-2:91-65

5 Aprll 1905

and create a strong, well-knit Cuban organization and don't ast

anything t'rod the Apericans.

Ask the Cuban people for contribu

tions; there are over a hundred thousand working in the US. At

$5.00 8 month, which they could easily pay, you would have half a

million dollars & nonth to vork with.

You can do a lot with a half

a million dollars a wonth." But above all (I continue my letter

from menory), don't go to Washington, just act as 1f loe US Govern-

ment did not exist.

Il somebody comes to the office and wanto to

know what you're doing, treat them courteously and give them all the

Information they vant as far as the operation of the outrit.

We are

Jiving In tbe US apd I think that any American official 18 entitled

to know what 18 going on.

But as far as our own private plans for

the liberation of Cube, they belong to the Cubans at thla tine. Then,

I told DI: Freyre, 1l you do this, you will then be able to deal with

the US Government on & completely different basis, not with your bat

in your hand. But if you bave the solid backing of half a million

Cubans throughout the world you will command the respect not only

of the American Government but also of the other countries of latin

AmerICa. I told hia I thought the RECE should evolve into a govern-

ment in exile because that would be the logical thing, and the only

type of organiistion people would understand. Weat did they do?

They scooted down to latin America with no support except thelr

40 thousand vores, they talked to people in latin Anerica. Every-

body promised then the szy but with one condition

- that Uncle Saw

approve.

Then they went to washirgton and lound out that Uncio Sem

did not approve. Alter nine months

they blew up last seek and threw

In the towel.

Two delegates resigned and the other toree said that

they would do sove housekeeping until they saw what happened.

Before leaving the RECE 10 1ts peaceful grave I think I

should mention that I had gone all through the process of the

referendum itsel", and after the RECE was formed I was the delegate

After the referendum was completed I helped get four

other delegates so that we would have five delegates wrich Ilke the

delegations throughout their country, and in Mexico City, Caracas,

etc., duplicated the original group of five. In Novenber 1 resigned

because I could not get ansvers to a list of questions . answers

for which I trought I was justified in asking - l.e., regarding 1t8

finances, activitles, successes, prospects, etc. That takes care of

the RECt.

So now, we've reached the sorent of truth. All these things

have gone down the drain.

During TY

• recent visit to Miami there was

one last hope which seened still alive.

sas told coveral times b

these people that tiere

Is sobethine very, very big being vorked ou

....i

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Enclosure to

1À-204-05

585:11 1965

by the US agencies, that this very, very big tased 18 leminent,

that 1t 18 based exclusively on an irternal uprising and perhapa

we possibillty of the assassination of Castro as a kickoff. Two

days ago I receired a communicstion from a person sho la close to

Us Government people in Miami, representatives of the State Depart

ment, and also CIA people.

he

said

that ve should be patient, that

the end is not far away and sist the so-called Onda Abericaza 18

going to solve the problet.

In other words, whatever organization

1s working on the Cuban probies apparently is on the verge of glving

the word to whomever 18 inside Cuba connected with this operation.

• I have little hope that this on be true.

After five years, I have

no reason to belere that circusstances at this time are different

Us course, I have to recognise that

the Johnson administration is sot the same as the Kernedy adainistra-

tion, as witness

the lack of cesitation in the Vietnan situation. It

may interest you to know that a group of Cubans from RECS recently in

Washington were told by imporeant people in no uncertsin teras that

the Cuban problem is certainly not top draver right now, but second,

third or fourth.

The top draver is Vietnam and that once Vietnan 18

solved one way or another, perisps the Cuban situstion would be nored

up to the forefront, 1f no other area of the world flares up.

19.

So, this is the sitistion that brings us right down to

the point which I wanted to discuss with you in detail • le formation

or a Cuban Government In Exile as the only possible solution to nove

the Cuban situation off dead center, whether the US Governsent 15

willing at this tibe to help or not.

We feel that the creaston of a.

Cuban Government in Exile, 1f done

right and has the Boral authority

and the solid backing of the Cuten exiles, could possibly creste a

situation where, without having to risk any American lives, the Cuban

probica and the Communist threat in Cuba could be eliainated without

danger of World War III, or escalation, or anybody dropping the fabous

bomb in New York or Washington.

I Am going to tell you why a group

of people,

including myself, bellere very strongly tat this govern.

bent in exile should be made as soon as possible, and as vell as

possible. And the fact that if it were a fait accompli it bould

create some drastic changes in so thinking of the State Dejerement

regarding a Cuban Government in äxile.

20.. The beginning of the idea of a government in exile started

at an OAS meeting in lashington in July 1yo4 when Dr. Prio and Dr.

Marque: Sterling capitalized on tieir personal, old friends:ipa

with she present Secretary oi Suite of Brazil, Vasco Leltao Da Cunha,

and also the ex-ambassador of Argentina, Jullo Aboedo, to further

• 20

.. ....

---

## Page 14

14-00000

Enclosure to

1A -414-65

5 April 1505

these Ideas. Both the latter had been ambassadors to Cuba during

the Prio regine and tbere vere strong tles between then.

At tho

tine of this conference in duly 1964, apparently Prio convlaced

Leitao and Ancedo leat the idea of a Cubun Governent in Exile

would be a solution to the Cuban problem. Bra:il still had fresh

In 1ts wind the horrible scare of 50ing Communist, and Lestoo 18

He offered Prio a place to gatuer in

Brazil for most of the Cuban leaders (and he knew them al1). The

List of people to be invited to Brazil contained all the top leadera

In exile. I can give you their names but I think it vould be just

academic because the gathering did not take place. This proposál

created tremendous excitement among the Cuban exiles and of course

Prio mentioned 1% as the basis for his enthusiasm in creating a

government 1n exile. Di. Prio felt that 1f Brazil, unico 18 tbe

largest nation in latin America, and the most popular with the US,

especially now that it has a friendly governuent, would recognize

the Cuban Governent in Exile and give it a temporary bone toere

that this vould persuade the US to cooperate in some ray or anothes.

The fact 1s that recently the Brazilian authorities turned down Dr.

Prio, much to his sorrow.

The information I have 18 that there vere

soDe very strong pressured exerted by the State Departmeat on the

Brazilian Governsent against the idea of cooperating with Dr. Pric

or asy of his friends, in creating a Cuban Governuent in Exile.

Just a feu daya ago in Miami, Mi, Leiteo told Dr. Prio, and tale

18 very reliable inside intoration, that If' he had gone shead with

the original plans of inviting Prio and other Cubana to Brazil, he

might have lost his job.

21, Incidentally, yosterday I had & very interesting tidult

which I don't know 1s true or not.

Perhaps tonorrow it will be all

academle, but I was told that Prio and leiteo would have one last

secret meeting in Houston, Texas, where Mrs. Lestao 18 taking, BoDe

kind of medical treatment. So perhaps this la not cumpletely dead

vet or maybe Leitao wante

to appear as trying to inolat some bore

I don't know, but 1t 1a Interesting.

22. Anyway, niter the Brazilian turn-down, the Mieni leadership

has staggered.

Ho ose kney what to do next or whom to tali to.

Apparently the Cuoar leaders felt that unless they had une support

of a latin American country they would not be able to yo arcad vith

their government in calle idea.

- 11 .

---

## Page 15

Enclosure to

LA -2g4-05

5 April 1965

23.

As a result of soberbing that happened sore recently, I

have real hopes.

In the isst sew dayo, perhaps you have heard,

there bas an unbelievable plebiscite beld in Miaal first, then in

Los Angeles, and shea li des York and Puerto Rico, in which people

vere just invited ly a comictoe of vomen to come to certain places

and express themselves on a llitle card on whether they vanted a

sovernment in exile to le formed.

Well, the reaction vas un-

believable. I fare out oniy ino small announcesents on my radio

program, and me had aloost 5000 people come to Eullywood and Vine

on a rainy, cold arternoon to deposit their little postcards saying

"We vant a goverinent in exile."

Miami had close to 50 thousand

do tbe same.

New York had over 50 thousand people. Puerto Rico

bad another 10 or 15 chousand.

In other words, it was a spontaneous,

legitimate reaction of the Cuban public in favor of having some kind

of an organisation to represent them in their exile.

‚As a result of this informal plebiscite, ve've resolved

In los Angeles to inore the impasse that had come about in the

Leadership in Miami, to ignore tbe difficulties and complicationa

and all the things that people told un would be impossible in

having a government in exile vicbout the support of the US, and go

ahead.

And this is the main reason for my visit with you tonight.

The idea, incidentally, or a fovernment in exile may rise some

hacklea in the State Departeen: but from a purely legal point of

view, I feel, and I have no resson to believe the contrary, that tre

Cubane 1a extie here are not violating any law of the US - federal,

state or local - because what they are doing at this time is running

an election to determine tbe opinion of 200 thousand-300 thousand

people as to whom they think stould take over the leadership of the

exiles.

Until such tine as those elected declare thenselves a

government in exile there would be no conflict with US laws.

Pernaps at that tina, once these people are elected and accept

the election, they can then discuss this point with the state

Department. Is the State Department tells them that if they declare

tresselves a governsent in exile that thej're going to jail,. then

all they have to du is fiod ou: If Costa Rica will take them, or El

Salvador, or Brazil, or whatever. Of course, they and we know that

must of these countries are strungly dependent upon lS aid and loans,

and so fortn, for their operation and there 1a no doubt in my mind

trat 1t 18 going to eate 1 Ilttie persuasion to get a latin American

country to defy the lS and fire shia government in exile a piece of

land and recognition.. But there 18 an alternative which ve have

considered and this is that these nen who will be elected in this

proceas do not necessarlly bare to declare tremselves a governaent

:.

- 12 ..

---

## Page 16

Enclosure to

LA-294-05

5 April 1905

1n exile. They could declare themselves, to be some kind of a

leadership junta, or a presaratory committee or wintever, to avoid

any legal problems with

the State Department of the us.

25. There has been • I belleve I mentioned it before - a

tremendous amount of floundering by the leadere 1n Minmi after tbe

Brazilian denial of a meeting place in Rio de Janeiro and a group

of us 1n California, and frankly I have been the prime instigator

1n this, have decided not to walt for the people in Miami, but to

go ahead and start an election in California to sce how it vorke

out.

I con assure you that in the planning of thie whole election

¿bere have been no participantà except a number of us Cubans a11

of whom I think are in good faith and who may not be leaders but

are intelligent and well meaning.

So, ve decided to start here

1n. Callfornia where, incidentally, the passions of politice are not

as vehement.

In Miami, the people are intense in their political

passions and their brains are clouded.

For Instance, about five

or Bix days ago, I called Dr. Eduardo Suarez Grivas, who is the

pover behind Prio's political machinery.

All the meetings are held

and he is the real brains of this whole thing.

man was a Cuban senator for some lU years and one of the most active

In passing good, progressive

legislation. I consider him one of the

most brillfart men in the political strata of Mieni. I talked to him

for half ar hour on the phone,

had to let hiu know what we were

planning and to ask him 1f there was any pooulbility of our endanger-

that would be good for Cuba because, if 30, ve wouldn't

Our objective to the liberation of Cuba, If our nove here

could possibly upset sowething else, le would refrain.

lic asked me

to wait a few days because something was going on but I learned from

other sources that the situation down there was almost chaotic so we're

26.

what are we going, to do?

Well, thie is the atory;

ve call it the California Plan.

We are going,

to hold an election

on April 25th -= that's about four weeke fron now roughly - that

will Eive us plenty of tiac. The vechanice are these: We will

1n'o1te every Cuban in the Los Angeles area to come to one of 15 to

25 predetermined polling places throughout the city and surrounding

Breas where we know that there are a number of Cubans. We think

that we will be able to use the International Institute on Foyle

Street, the CYO bullding in East Los Angeles,

several churches,

Including the Bleused Sacrubent here 1u Hollywood, & number of

Masonic remples, the Knithts of Columbus hall downtown at Fonnie

- із :

1: 19

---

## Page 17

'ari

Enclosure to

1A -291-05

5 April 1965

by Cubans,

The polla will be open from 0900 to 1500, Sunday,

April 25th.

27.

In each polling place there will be a looselear regioter

on which the person conire in to vote will put his name, hiu signa-

ture, his address, telephore,

and then his Identification, which

will be checked.

le will accept Cuban passports, vuld or not,

Immigration carda, and driver's licenses, plus whatever otber

dentalication is approved by. the voting committee.

We will meet

Saturdny |27 Mar 65

with s1x ex-magistrates of the Cuban courte

who have had electoral experience.

They will give us guidance on

how to do thia properly.

After the person identifies himself and

registere we will give him a ballot to mrk in private. Elther

from h10 memory, or from an Information sheet avallable he will

vote for a president, a vice-president and for perhaps as fev as 15

or as many as 25 members of an advisory council. The number has

not get been determined.

The advisory council would have certain

veto povers over the President, as se do not want another dictator.

There will be another Area on

the ballot for a regional representa.

tive of each city that has more than five thousand Cuban residents.

28. When the people park their ballots and drop them into the

ballot bor we will solicit whatever financial help they can afford

to defray thio election expense, which will approximate $2,000.

He will try as for as possible

to have a former member of the Cuban

judiclary at each polling place, along with one or two members of the

2506th Brigade on guard.

he will try to get the cooperation of the

city in providing us with police. At 1500 ve will seal the ballot

boxes and try to have the city or some slullar authority impound

them so that they will be out of the hande of Cubans until they

are properly counted.

This may be a little shameful but we don't

want anyone in Maul or any place to say that these exctions were

fraudulent because we handled the ballots.

29. . To help keep the election clean we will stamp the hand

voter with a special ink of the type used at race tracks

and places of amusement.

This ink only shows when put under black

having ence cast e ballot, they will be unable

to vote again in any other place because they will be marked. That

1s one way of keeping it clean.

Eligibles will Include every Cuban over 18 or 21 -- we

have not decided the age yet.

we would like to keep as close as

possible to the age provided in the 1940 constitution of Cuba, so

whatever the constitution says, that's what we're going to abide by.

= 14=

---

## Page 18

14-00000

+. i

Enclosure to

LA - 254-05

5 Apr1l 1965

31. To help people's nemories we will provide with each ballot

a separate sheet containing approximately 100 names with a brief

biography of each person, each of whom has taken part in various

activities during the six years of exile. They will be from every

side of the political fence.

If voters want to have soncone who is

not on this list, 1t 1s their privilege. This 10 & free and 1n-

dependent popular expression or election, if you want to call 1t

that. Perhaps in about a week or so we will buy a full-page in

La Opinion (Spanish-Language daily in Los Angeles] and explain

the viole procedure. Also, we're going to keep a barrage of radio

announcement going explainin me me come penne me paper an

of the election, giving out the names, doing everything possible t

create enthusiasm for these elections.

32. Now, this is going to shock many people in New York and

Miant, but we want to shock them because they don't seem to be

doing anything at all. If, between now and the 25th of April,

they get their heads together and do sometbing similar, fine.

All we want to do is get the ball rolling. Hopefully, they will

do something similar.

Incidentally, I should mention that we are going to try

in the next week, after we get everything straightened out, to

ontact someone in the larger US cities, Mexico City, Puerto Rico,

Caracas, Madrid and Santa Domingo, which are big centers of Cuban

exiles, and all the Central Anerican republics. We're going to try

to encourage elections simultaneously in each of these countries

and in every city of the US.

If we are capable in the next four

weeks to get the ball rolling in all these centers of Cubans, then

we will count the ballots that same day.

If we can only have our

own elections in the Western states on

the 25th of April, then we

will place the sealed ballot boxes in safe-keeping and wait until

the other cities have held their elections and then do the counting

the same day.

Otherwise, we might destroy the whole election if we

Indicated Cellioria's preferences.

34. Now, let's suppose that the elections have come off

beautifully throughout the whole

world, with expressions from

200 to 300 thousand Cubans.

What happens next? Well, those who

have been elected are going so have

to act because they have

received a mandate I am sure they will regard very carefully.

I can tell you now that the people elected who do not accept

this mandate had better forget ahout going back to Cuba.

- 15 -

lilipe.

-...

---

## Page 19

Enclosure to

IA-294-65

5 Apr1l 1965

sest nore 10 Chis: These people are suing to have to decide how they"re

soira to operate,

and perbaps get in touch with the US State Department

so deteraine what 16 and shat is not legal. Perhaps they may have to

Ey to • Central American country, perhaps to Panona, who knows? But

the most important thing that I bant you to know is

so subait to the government of exiies or in exile a master plan for the

liberation of Cuba.

• 35. This master plan l8 simple and ve belleve strongly in 1t.

Tais government in exile or of exiles would have such tremendous

suthority with the backing of periaps 300 thousand Cubans that 1t

wuld be strong enough to overcome the fears of the State Department.

We believe that the Anerican people vould endorse this exercise of

denocracy right in their own yard by people who vant to liberate their

ont country .

I think that the people of the US, 1I properly Informed,

would probably want their soverument to help. I don't think that the

people of the ls vould tolerate azy opposition from the State Depart

ment unless it could prove that this was bad for the US. Knowing the

intluence of American public opinion, we feel that thie

step wild

actually change the thinking of te people in State who at this time

may be opposed to this idea.

36. Now, If we are able to aller the thinking of the State Depart-

went so that it will not oppose wistever latin American countries may

be disposed to help the exile movement, then we come to the final stege

or our thinking and our reason for creating this government of exiles

in exile. The floal stage 1s sinply this, The government of exiles or

in exile, or at least its President and its equivalent of Secretary of

State, perhaps, should visit each of the heads of government of the

followiag republica: Guatemala, conduras, Nicaragus, El Salvador, Costa

Rica, Panama, Colonbia, Venezuela, Dominican Republic, and the free

associated state of Puerto Rico.

The exile group should discuss with

tbe beads of these 10 Caribbean countries a plan for organizing in each

an arzy or a brigade which hoperully would be composed of three elements:

Cubars, local citizenry and local cilitary men.

The cubans of military age would come from all over to get

military training at bases provided in one of these 10 countries.

We

blok that the Cuban element would number approximately 50 thousand

Choans of military age who would be distributed throughout these 10

countries.

Then ve would lave the local citizenry, the youth of these

10 countries, who would like to participate in this Army of the Caribbean,

not to fight Castro for the sake di the Cubans, out for their own safety

and for their own countries. Castro has proven hinsell a nenace to the

every country in the Caribbean - Venezuela 1s the

-

20 -

i Ai

---

## Page 20

14-00009

Enclosure to

1A-294-05

3 April 1965

most glaring emople.

The youngsiers in shese countries, vita a

senic of patriotism and adventure, shi's provide another 50 thousand

men to be trained with the Cubans in --is ring of steel around the

Carlbbean. Then, the most Importa: put of tale aruy of liberation.

In the Caribbean would be volunteers is te regular aruy of esca

of these countries provided we could was rings out with deir own

governments so that they would not las eimer their citizenship,

position or reputation by reason of voiunteering for this army of

38. Now come the big questions - W=o is going to pay for all

this!

Who is going to supply the amritiont

Or the military hard-

ware? Or the

armada necessary for an i=rasion of Cuba by an aruy

that may have between 150 thousand asi äU thousand men. he believe

that the Cuban Government of exiles on in exile can make arrangements

With each o' these countries to provide tases, military facilities,

training areas, milltary advisors, food, and housing for that part

of the

liberation force In that country. If one or another country

1s not financially able to do this I ar sure that once the army

begins to form,

the bases working and i tralring started, there

would be a move

throughout all of Aserica, sorth, central and south,

to raise funds for Cuba's liberation. I'm sure that millions would

be available.

39.

The next question 1s military sanitare. I'm afraid Uncle

San, directly or indirectly, is the oair source of supply that we

can look to.

He would like to keep lacie San out of any inter

national Involvement and let this be essentially a movement by

Latin Americans for latin American purposes. Eovever,

there should

be nothing to keep the US fron suppljin trese legitinate govern-

ments with

whatever arms they request.

The latter,

In turn, could

nake these arms available to the brigaies being trained in each

country.

I believe

the US Governueat 1s as anxious to eradicate

connunisu from America as it is frow Sorreast Asis, and certainly,

find a way to supply hardware to mese 10 inter-American

armies within

completely normal inter-sorersent transactions.

There need be no direct contact betwees *e US Government and the

Cuban exiles.

40. Once this army is trained there's alrays the possibility

Castro might be assassinated, or other Abrican plans might be put

Into operation, or if the Cubans inside e: Cuba do 1t themselves,

well, then the battle 1s won.

In tras bagps event, we will dis-

santle this operation and return to Cuis.

I cone of these thing

appen, and the aruy goes ahead, then lse way I see it is this

I don't honeatly think that this army a liberation will ever have

- 17.

---

## Page 21

14-00000

Enclosure to

1A-25210-65

5 April 1965

land in Cuba as an invading army. I belleve that when this army

18 ready to pouice, the people around Castro will tell him they

don't think they should be there any longer. Then we'll see

either Castro fly out of Cuba or have his bead blown off by bis

own men, most of whom would rather be heroes of the revolution

and save what they can.

In my opinion, this would end the affair,

but 1f 1t doesn't, then the army of liberation will have to invade

Cuba and go all-out. This is the way I see it and this i8 about

the end of it.

41. I think I should point out at this stage that the election

we are prepering are completely different from the ones conducted

The RECE plan presented a package of five men to the

Cuban people on a take-it-or-leave-it basis and I think many people

resented this. There vere no alternatives. Ours is different. Ours

The voter can choose anyone he wants,

even his mother-in-law. So I think the people will react favorably.

42.

I think before ending I would like you to hear the words

of Dean Rusk when he spoke at a Los Angeles World Affairs Council

luncheon at the Beverly Hilton Hotel on Sept. 18, 1964. I aaked

him from the floor if the State Department was grooming RECE FOr &

government in exile.

At that time I really thought this was happen-

Ing since RECE people had been so secretive about their activities

In Hashlagton. Rusk said,

"Well, I don't want to probe the future unduly

In this current situation but there are some tough

problems about a government in exile that we sbould

reep In mind. In the first place, Cubans outside o

"uba have not been strongly united and there are

considerable nunber of divergent groups, and my under-

standing 1s that they have not yet been able to come

together with the degree of solidarity that would

speak with authority on such a point. Then one must

bear in mind also the attitude of the people who

remain in Cuba and what their attitude toward such

leaders might be.

Nor what would be their role to

play in any future development on the island. Third,

I would like to emphasize that it is of the preatest

importance to us to deal with the Cuban question on

as broad a hemispheric basic as possible. We made

great strides in the last year or two in moving in

= 18 -

r.-r

---

## Page 22

Enclosure to

14-294-65

5 April 1965

that direction, I've already commented on tbat

earlier today.

And there

1o considerable suspicion,

frankly, throughout latin America about things called

governsents in exile. Of course, far shoe the Cuban

question, thia idea appears to many of is to te an

instrudent which night lend itself to intications

of other sorts anc other pieces at otber times.

And so there's considerable sensitivity about

governments in exile in the hemisphere. & per

sonally vould not think there would be great

advantage in our recognlting a government in

exile if me vere the only ones to do so."

43. These are the words of Secretary of State, Desa Rusk,

regarding governments in exile in geueral and a Cuban government

In exile, in particular.

As we can see, the Secretary of State

does not express ideas that are contrary to those me have expressed

In this conversation we've had today with you.

There are several

points in Dean Rusk's conversation that lead be to think that 1f

the Cuban government In exile 1s prepared in accordance with the

plan of elections ve have outlined earlier, there is & very strong

possibility that the State Department would change its present

attitude and not only accept the posalbility of a government in

exile but even recoguize it under the proper circumstances.

If

seven, or eight, or 10 nations, in the Caribbean or Argentina

and Brazil decide to recognize

this government, there's no reason

why the State Departent could not change its present negative

attitude.

44. Naturally, there nre many questions left unansvered in

this conversation but I would be very happy to answer any further

questions that you or the people that are associated with you may

Before I finish I Just want to express zy strong feelings

that the cause of the Cuban exiles and the security of the US are

parallel, although there might be sove divergent points in procedure

of International consequences. But I am coing ahead with this elec-

tion in California with

the hope that 1t will help create & Cuban

government of exiles or in exile, whichever 1s the final vording,

and 1t will'be for the future security of this country, se vell as

the liberation of Cuba.

With these words, I bould like to close .

this chat and thank you for your attertion.

Do not fail to see Para. S thra 8 of accoupanying nemo. ]

- end -

- 19 -

:.'

---

