# 104-10167-10132

## Page 1

104-10167-10132

FF.CM:

RID/

SECRET

(WHEN FILIED INJ

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Noit la the absonco el comments or indication of action

takon, this coner sheat will be dessuyad men the

docament is fiod.

COMMENTS

TO

ROOS

NO.

DATE

OFFICERS

3.

5.

wh/3/cw

RECORD

GOPY

10

12

13.

15.

16.

17.

16.

RIHIS

19.

20. RID/FI

ENCLOSURE

CATE MICROFILNEO

doucheet.

with which thes

was routed then

4#

RETURN TO CIA

Beckground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

16D0L

ABSTRACT

INDEX

2351

FILE MLM9C9

GiDCHAR

781-2597166

DOCUMENT DATE

56ug54

MENT NU

INHA - 00008

84580

BORI

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSES CA: 60A

DISPATCH

Cular, hE Dirision

FROM

KiE-1 (45151)

SANCT

ADITAR Escape

ACTION MEDIATO

See Fara 16

ARTERENCES:

201-259.716

Des. 7

$ 12525t 1353%

NOT - ICE TONE

ARABLED FOR INGENING

NO ENTRIES MOLINED

FOENIG CAN HE NUDGED

I QUALTED NO DESE ONLY

Da 17 July 1959 (coreca telephoneà se tsas ha had dust seen sontacted oy

•i saii tait he hod a jessage for

as sacid do arat this telennore ceil. I told air I dian lair o'cuLar but oy

go ani meet his to see boat persage do wis satatio I set its

'sonali had identified

Direls as a associate of the Cumingo Diese: Cornerd, Ed a 5: 25'25 mriter for

the Enrona rizes. Do also said that de vas a saves da the laticaci CIC issociation.

is wil be seen, the Jessage was asiressed to freni FIOPIii end..

a tici oi moRons cackgroura,

it is formate that d'Coiti, ras not jie to find

Knes he could not reasal lauri, sno is santiored in the ressage, O'COMEL

called Beach.

Dise intored loyaon that sar la shes wish to sid sinat with

DCAR 1t should le through jorge and Virgilio Turn, vac suid be reased on

teleptone 3-4720 0= 3-5753, lsvana. O'conalI sati also taat daring delivered this

Jessage he did not srish to save anything furtner so io vita this matte..

Both EDusoR and CDALl! were able to lientify positire toet the signature

ras that of cocer.

It then secare a question or wether or not se tished to take

eny estion to assist in the ascape of aCAR ina GiE.

In a series of telenhone

cainerjes vita incAiu during the nigit of July i7-iò, I sas infaired that ve were

and there to be placed in contact rita mersets of the davana Station to work out

aiRBOR and ChALUM departed Mian! in tie late aftergon of 13 July 1959.

Iney returned to ljeni on the evening c? 19 Juij end reported "ast eve-ything: had

very satisfactorily.

Ine detals of sceir sintast its the Station end with

aDIGAR and the a tangents onde vith the Station for Ic:i-a DEiR are reported

In corresponsense frus the lavane Stetion.

Sirilarly, the arcoacerent from Hevars

that EDCHAR would depart Havane 25 Juiy and ernire et Ters 2 Faij, cui the Initial

arrangesents for soving EClAR directly fros Fare to the lashisten area are can-

rained In cabie treffic betacen E vana,

and Washingter.

5. Qua arrived in Tapa on schedule Aboarà te 5a PlAzAi and, I decordance

with prior arrangesents nade with Hr.. GALVal of the IdEs, Tarze, he was crought fro

the ship to the IuiS offices. Lused on the instructions that sucHAR sas to be

handed over imediately into my custodi for trersfer to she lashlanton arc, ItS

prepshed a parole docusent in the nese of

JNAI: Goser which said

oniy shat he sould appear for hearing at such tire as the lus called his Meantise,

Ma Joseph audIa, sto hod arrived in Tazpa the previous day, vas prepared to

eScOrt UNCHAR to tic Mushington urea aboard en Sastern Airlines flight on the

alternoon of 27 July 1959.

Upon completion of IllS documentatica I took encHin so aRNaturalE 1o0s

suitcase, etie, for coolin. shortly

vefore inair scheduled jeparture, However,

a rascape wus roeived throuch Evertor's chamel that the desision tu transfer

DA? to the Wachinton area hod leen reversal and that de vas to je beil bere

we sore also intoned that ari d. JOBiLY and

be encute 5101 kashiniton to Tange to cordust an Interaction

as soil and to

assist me in boiding socus until he souid je sufaced. SAdalia and

stanis

arrivod 2i Juija Since BRialGAl's serices bere an Icager rezilied, he departed

se +4900281539

193° 53

11 of 3

• 16/BR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

LASSHICAION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPATCH STINSOL AND NO.

22314-3

that sare daj for Washiest. BRANTu's office wight be notified that bis

assistance toem was exceit.

He was sost wlilse, and cooperative thralicious and

very effectiia in keeping iDolAR at ease.

It varinen agreel that SADall and Enamo

wouid renain in Tampa

with car through that act (2, July) auring this time they would have amle

opporarity tor interrogstion, that I buid retura to Miuni imediateiy to prepare

a sarchouse and to rake te recessary errangements sith Its and that SAneLIE

sould uring EDOSAR to Miani on 29 July 1959.

On the zorning o. 29 July, I Inforned Mr. Eaward ARRiS, INS Miest,

what had teren plese and tet GDCHAR would remain is this areg and I would maice him

avaliable to his et any tie that he wished. Mr. AImS said he vould leave this

entirely to se and boul: repare to tase the next steps in the IdS handling'of

QDCHER at sy cavendence.

I also info.ned ODMiY and offered them the orporntiy

to neet vita COCJAR.

They hed not yet received emy instrictions fren their lead-

quarters on this ratter and felt that, since we hee aireedy conducted an interrogetion,

they could defer their meeting with aDORAR until sacetine when be could be are bede

nore easily avaliaole, en estitude mico vas particularly appreciated at this time

Bad in these circuistenses.

9. I then prepared EVIL?l's goartment, willch fortunately he hed left for my

LICJAR and SADZILY, and Istified SADPILY that he could

proceed as pierred on 29 a-4-

They arrived in the evening of 29 July without

noldent and vera settled it's epartment.

10. Hear-nile I bas i-fcined that the Havana Station's plans for moving

EDIA?'s fanilü out of duis had hit a snag in thet, in order to obtain a passport

for tae chilares to leave sive, a vritten statenert from QDCHAR granting his per-

mission wouid ie required.

The obvious problem here was the risk of confi-ins

to the Cuben E-rerrent that EDCEAR was in the US, wich might result in biocking

the fenily irca leaving ciss. ht first It had beer thought that this turn of events

vOul alarm GICER?, but he escepted the news with complete cals, saying that se had

espected this in happen.

i also seid he did not seieve that his status with

the Cucon forement vould -ause them to prevent his lamily from leaving. In order

to give this riotiem thoron consideistion, howerer, it was thought best to bave

Stanlay R ZliKi, Who was in cortact wich EDCHAR's vile and who had the compiete

Inforation on the probles as it existed there, cose to Miani for a discussion.

ZAINA arrived os 30 Juiy 1959 in the afternoon. He confirued te is the

problen as it had been perisusly outlined, and sais that there seemed to beino

escape fion this requireenie.

Zikh aise carried with him a letter to DISAR

fros his lie in tnich she stated in effect thet sce did not think there was; any

seuse for great clare and saviousy shared CDCHAR's own opinion that the sorement

solild not ant to prevent her and the children iron eaving the country notribastand-

INJ ODCHAR's status with the Cuban goverment. ZillA had also reported that @ocHAR's

wife was very sich at case end did not seen to be very worricd aiout this as a

probien. QDCIAR was infored that this was a decision that he must make since the

risks vere his. It vas other mickiy agreed thet ve should proceed ith the pre-

paration of a written statarent civing peiission for his wire to obtain thet

necessary docusers to transpurt the chlidren fros Juba at any time and to thatever

country sho wished which WiSA could take back with him.

• 12. laving reached sis decision through wish the Cutan governnert muld ve

specifically ju: un notice taat ODCHAR is in the US, there was no longer any secessity

for holding hia in the safessuce.

I Informed HI. HEMIS Irmediately that SOcHAr

would in prosented to thes the next day, 31 July 1959, whereupon he wouid asfune a

Annis sas told that although we lid chosen to surface QUIAR at

this te, no sill cie carous to avoid any puilicity, that we had recion to believe

so duca interent has cared for me a long tise that Dalui vas in the Us,

and that su said retor that this lomession be raistained.

hearts fully spore

cinted this wid offered vor. indig rot to rule arg stctenents unatsoerer aput escri?,

to losee his narcle doctors in the sae nee of

ritic: sun his. true nut, mi pluch tile file in: dis own restricted flies so that

1t guld not be disruosed in unrono in itis but himali.

These turnined en caiy cre probica waisa was to assist ODIla la leania:

the whereabouts u :DolS.. He had with his only an address which he told me vas

SORAG

109 819

L'SE PREVOUS EDITION

Ta no.

Z1BR

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

1A56:2

DISPATCH SORTER AND NO

1234-

195 31ch Street, and thet tis des tha address ci a douse inli be had sougat

duce cance cuntha to vita a a-jus duretent tarta e reai crae agent names

MCFaRE In Cora Gabies. Es said that de thought tait Fiant Filial would vei

in the trace since de sei added him to 100k ca for 1t for ain and he hoped

th to find it cucut the buse, iut clare it upperd shet PIcal aight se Milne

casse, I didn't try very hari.

A superalaial hess isoned that there is no eudreos

of iji 3uth Striot or Avesue In the rorthbest sexier and there is no real estate

agert Lanca HOTiTE listed as cuch.

I was, hoveter, very ancious to find DEIRS

cocaise: a) Ira: endous t-arestavilsa sontact dim ala; and a) I wanted to

draculze the drivery of SP to hi. lore of to l3 agensies aho might

Domaiiy be

erested to tir the hereasoits of sui a person did in fact krow

(severa: " thor sno obricusiy rest Drew Pearson's column said

tney taought he ras in Teresi. I reinstestig tures to Caytein Lae NAPIER of;

the Mari Poilse Detectire Firce,

ino did inow snore de was and gave me the teie-

paore and adáress and got sai to DeLAS that I bes caine to see

ain. I found

EDErs Living dith Ricardo de lORIE in a scali arise on the far erd of Key Biscayne.

Waen I arrived, DElhS die 3* Inor any restleular etrusies over seche ne Epein,

tut nis attitude chenged a--stig wher I intored à- at I hed sotten ashaR

for him and void uring his sit that everia.

i4- CrEa vas taxes to IliS on the afternoon ca 31 Juiy where he was

Irediately gives ais bearizz, thica corally requires an interial of 3-4 days,

end the unoie process compirei on that sae visit.

I aiso intrcauced hin to en

agest of ODaril and they made their artengerents ios intervies for the morning of

3 fugist. (EDGEAR later ser-ted to ve tat this -erview has cone very veri)

Ils initten permission for i's wife to nore the chiléren was rotarized by a cleri

I shen tOOk EDEE:3 out to Key Biscayne to De LORIE's Louse and arrived

to find the moie entourage (i.e., in sedition to De lORIE and GUSIAS and their

LÍVE3, De LUPIE's caildrey sod a rattery of "criados) ves packei end ready to

During ry visit in the moming I had not, smica with De lARIR and meyse

DJIAS bas too encited to section this little natte= of noving. In eny cese,

De LORIE, who coricusly 1s "se breiniest of the grug, Inforned je of the obvious

thi--that toey vere sorieud readily cfiered se their new esdress. The :

sddrass is Ü3i5 su 42nd Stress, Miani 5, waich De Lice said "they" had just bought.

(I riii leam nore shout shis inter out ragne they used the seou that QDBIAS got

fron als article hich he identally proudly shore: se. I bed the impression

that GOBIAS finds that rus sity very heady stufí.) in any case, I spoke wish

the three of than together ed briefiy seferred to i desire to sontinue contect

kith them and zy. feeling the ve could tork effectively together.

This brought

& rodding of heads end an e-parent eagerness to do so DCiAR vas instructed to

infora he as soch asthey orain a telephose at this sew address, nich they dian't

eipest was going to be before 5 hugust.

Is is not sossible to seil at this the

shas sort of cosperation se are going to get fros this trio, out I think EiCHAR

right je counted on to peittain contest.

At a sinima he vili se maintaining

close contact so long as ve are in the vest position to help vith his probles with

his Lenily.

16. As quiskly as passible I would ilke to here sent to se the materiel

which SADELLY very competey developed with QDEr It is I yon then to attenut

to expand and verine this together vita DCHAR, CalAS, and De LO:IE, alter shich

it =1jht ve veii. to go over it with the personnel of the lavans Station to detemine

hos these pecpie: Jight ve best used and the vest uproach to reccling the targets

taa: can be set up.

Bed anley

3-3a0

FOURAB

165 $3a

jata

USE PARTIOUS EDITION

# 79. 91 JRA AMO $1 29

WHICH ALL OBSOLETI

PAGE NO

43 ог 3

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Frauk, this is

Gut kerilate and louct in

defrre.

odder telephie sumber

in other

UBR

Se attackment

: 11M 1: A-8

5 Auguet 195s

---

## Page 6

ist palmas

794709414

Vock Peailman..

CAP. FRANK FIORINI.

ANKARA MOTEL

15-8-6666

---

