# 104-10217-10221

## Page 1

104-10217-10221

14, a 5163

139,5

14432

SECRET

PRO NO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH AD.

INSTIUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

ises ss appr

ade soPhorady on the DANds of thO boAt arAilablo im

wl+08 800509888

and 120.

farmiales

***

in andjocso pondpiciod, il possibloy and eus (a) com

0500 O8

possible.

INDOCATE NI0. PHEA.

THERE.

=-

#$EUDONYa

Prederick, I. Dominie

CONTACT AND DEVELOPHEIT

*SP CONTACTEO ON DEVELOPED.

Stetion officer George B. KatZenbach

coatacted Subject In

his emeriences in the

Jup to the time

of his departure from the start of |

In sping 1904. Inia was folloved up by

Indepth debriefing sessions carried out by Katzenbach in al

conference room

on 17,16,19 and 23 February.

in the basis of thise talks 1t was decided to recruit

SubJect for & test assignment inl

during the sumer of 1965 during which tine

he sole attempt to build

and

and

In the

KUDESK/ICG staffer Joseph S. TIffany

me dispetened tol

not 1-7 June for tiate purposé.

tEn After recrultment end

agreement to ICFLUTTER examination, Subject vas introduced to bis

_/based Case

OffIcer, Bufus F. PODIGASI, on 3 June.

INDICATE I ETHER SUNDLEY COULD BE TURNES OVER QUICELY AND IN A SECURE MANTIN TO ANY

MANELINE. IF S0. INDICATE tO HOA.

Tes/ To any Case Officer Introduced t0 him by BODICAST, TITANT OF

KATZEEBACE.

OFFICEM FOR

""M?

RIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS NO MAVE NANDLED SUBJECT ON ENON HE INONS OR MAS EROTI.

KATABACH - Known to Subject aB

TIFFANY

BODICASE

WHICH THEY MATE

1050a

SECRET

€$- 801

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SECTIOB

PES TAVATICE AND COMTROL.

TE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION, (DO CORDIDON, ' MOONDIO CORN OTIdeNCO. DO DOt MOS DOCA COMINA DIES 0E

Subject's Jack of finds and & job are of primury importance. Ila need for

cash (evidenced to some extent by his attent to

and

Jin the fall of 164) vas eritical. Dut of even

Greater significance 1a his desire to effect his long-range rehabilitation in order

not to be stuck in the moreas of the Impecunious and "morally Fraudulent" |

INDICATE THAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS DUEN THE SUBJEET. (80 no COnCrOl, or il there in a lace of deal control

Also Important In Subject's motivation 1n the sense of

for the rest of his vith "The Came", which is enhanced by his desire to decelde

adventure connected vit

(to put one over on) those persons, such asl

who exploited and deceived him.

Dabl, evinces deep contempt for these professionn

and what be

refera to, with feeling, as their "oral frand".

mand fortrehabilita quite strongly in the aren of Subject's tertal velfare and

SECTION 1ID

COVER

COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE DEFICER IN THEIR MELT:SES.

Subio explained to his wife that

(Intsenbach), who telephoned him home

whe an

representative.

Saby. and Rodigast will use a

in the ullbely event their clandestine meetings are comprondaed.

COvER USED

SUBJECT IN OUTAINING MIS IAFORATION AND IN CONTACTINS MIS INFORMATS.

INDICATE SERVICE FON MICH

SUBJECT THINNS ME (Will DOORS (RA WOrRiNd).

KBARE

SECTIOT IN

INTELLIGENCE CONDECTIONS AND TRAIMING

ESPLAIN

SUBJECT•S ENOWN PAST OR PRESENT COSRECTION DITH ANY OTNER INTELGIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE ENTERT

SUCH COUBECTION IS AROM GUERTET.

Subj, applied for association vith KBARK in 1950 and aguin In 1960; hia enendes

have tried to discredit him by calling his & KIBARI agent, but there 1e good evidence

that this runor campeden has not hurt bin mong his friends, even his friends on the

Ho knam I. S. cornection.

LAST DINER INDAVADUALE

SUBJECT*S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

....

EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJICT MAS MAD IN CLANDESTINA OPERATIONS.

SECTION H

COLLABORAT I OU

POTENTIAL.

INDICATE OTHER FOREIEN POSER SUBJECT GOULD BE MOST LINELY TO COLLAMOMATE DITH BECAUSE OF MIS IDEOLOGY ON PAST

EXPLAIN.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

IF SUBJECT HAS BEES

USEO OR COMPACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTOVITY IN MICO ME HAS LAGAGED ANO POS BYPE OF

MATION ME MAS FURNISHEO.

01508-

In December 1963 Subj, vas Intervieved by a consulate officer in

for

Inforation on lee Harvey Orald, who reportedly had some contact with the

Subj. vas completely co-operative and the interviever

suggested follow-up, but the contact wes dropped.

INDICATE

"O» AND FROM THOM SUBJECT DETAINS INFORMATION.

Sable essesto tomation tram by broad edrele of trends and arquaintaners

INDICATE THAT MAS DEEN TOLO SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION DE IRFORMATIDE ME EUROISMES.

Hothing

DETAIL SUBLECT-S PROPOSER EI OR CI TYPE USE DA DUTIES

DETRIL SABIECT'S PACPOSED

TYPE USE DA DUTIES.

SECTION VID

PROPOSES LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S FROPOSED LIAISOY TURE CONTAGI OR SRERATIONAL USE:

A, AMERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVEMNENTS

Tone.

•. #HERE SUBJECT IS

AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYONE AGENCY:

SECTION VIBE

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY MELATIONSHIA WITH SUBJECT, 1.E, TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION, IF ANY.

AGENCY

reason's." his surchitract for 1 June - September 1965 providing fOr BAlary OF

$500.00 per month, non-accountable expenses of $100.00 per month and per dien

computed at the rate of $20 for days spent travelling to and fromI

$10 for period of residence 1n[

to the contract.) This la to be renegotiated o/a 1 September for extension t

as yurt with jo-oy terntertion ebruse.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SECTION

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL ADILITIES. VALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED OY SUBJECT UNICA COULD CONCEIVADLY M DE VALUE

FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

Subject's sk11l as

my qually him for cA vort

BECTOB

COMA I THER T3

DE IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECY A REGULAR SALARY.

COMMODITIES.

IADICATE THE WEEKLY AMDUNT. IF PAYMENT TO DE MADE IN ENCHANGE

$U8S:DY ON OTHER MINISE, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

See Section VIII. In addition it is set forth in the Letter of Agreement

with Subject, that KUBARK V11l compensate Subject for any relocation of his fantly

required by virtue of an approved change in place of employment.

EXPLAIN

#abject

PROMISES; TUFADISE NOT COVEREO MERRIN, MADE NO SURECT, (ExplO: Comminents radardind ouncedlion

See Letter of Agreement. KUBARK recognizes its moral obligation to protect subject

against any adverse action which night result fron activities engaged in by Subject

at the request of KUBARK during his period of employment.

SECTION KI

CE AND SECURITY

INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES BITH WHICH

SUBJECT'S MAME MAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

Station files;

ODENVY traces and reports are also

Included in material avallable on Subject.

INDICATE OTHEN IRVESTUGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TE VERIFY

Reports have been received by various

BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

contract agents.

INDICATE NETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL ON OPERATIONAL AP-

PROVAL

So roArequired nder

**Eleuteri

I. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

iT OF CSI 10-5.

EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER.

HELIADILITY AND SECURITY. COTING EVIDENCE

THERE POSSIBLE.

Subject 1s & rather cynical intellectual. He has a keen sense of what is in his

best interest, however, and there is mo every reason to belleve that he considere a

rellable and secure performance for KUBARK to be in his best interest. He showed

# good sense of security in l

during his recrultment period. IPLUTTER

examination 13 June 1965

#- EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION

INDISCRETION IN MICH

SUBJECE MAY NAVE BEEN INVOLVED NICH MUST DE EVALUATED FROM A

CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEMPOINT.

While working for

enemys

to a letter to the editor calculated to get

(2959) subject targed this alenature of a Persona

trouble vita

fautharities.

Subject ahsaned of this action.

SECTION KII

TIBJECT'S PERSORAL MABITS

NO J5E OF AIQUOR, DRUES:

CANS ING. PARAMOURS.

Iquor in moderatiion, no druge. He 1e belleved to have engaged in extremrital

semal affairs, but in a discreet manner..

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECTION XIGI

INDICATE SUBJECT'S NOBBIES

SECREU

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

15Y IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

Hone known

SECTION LIV

GENERAL

INDICAtE

UNETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ADILAYIES AND OTHEN CHARACINISTICS. ARE SUCH AS ME COULO DASS AS A NAPIVE

OF A COUNTRY OR BEGION OTMEN THAN HIS OHH.

Subject speaks fluent but foreign accented French.

He has a functional speaking

command of Spanish and Italian and can read German. Except for his language,

he could pass as an

INDICATE

WHETHER INTONNATION DO PRO VARTS I AND DI HAS OBTAINIO AY DESCANCO, CLANDESTONE ASSESSHNT. FILED.

CORRESPONDENCE

OR OTHER MEAAS.

All source, including extensive interview of Subject during the period

January - Jime 1965

IF OTHER THAN

BOUT SHE ACTSON IS

sen paro. 4jb.

Hone anticipated

Bawls too

(Also

2 .

SECTION

GIVE FULL

DETAILS

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRAMGENOUTS

RECOGATIOd

SIGNALI, SIE: SERE COULO CONTACT BE MADE INAT DORA FIDES COULO INDIVIDUAL

Iphone call to Subject's home (by Katzenbach) using

ids the name

Suosequent RODIGAST contacts have been laid on at prior meetings

and vary as to time and place. As signal is provided for

should either vish to prevent the meeting. A simple

was used by Subject for

to &

This

has been replaced by an

to cover specific requirements,

laid ids on at

each meeting

SECTION AVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATICHAL DATA AND REMARKS

ICHTUTTER examination of Sabject 0/a 13 June

74056).

29 June 1965

SIGNATUNE OF

AOPROFRIATE SENION OFFICEN

(CI/ICC/Ops)

SECRET

---

## Page 6

185185 80-Pi4e a 201-ZU60S2

FILE MA.

BILE MIDD

HEY.

DESTROY

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

43

PERSEA/UNIT NOTIFILO

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

Infe

AÉ'T

8 RID COPY

AF

ELE VE, LEG, FEG, CAD, CA/OH, C, CISeS, CICa, CULA, FE1, TSD6:

SECRET 2908252

INtEDIATE

_DIA SITE

KUDESK

ORPREY

REF

6237

AN CITY

DEST

ABSTRACT

S8m01015

UTSUREL

4712

LOCAL SECURITY EXPECTED EE GIVING SPECIAL ATTENTION ANYONE

PREVIOUSLY CONNECTED

CONMUNISTS CLOCAL HUMANITE REP

FORCED DEPART YESTERDAYS. HAVE NO ENTRY INFO EXCEPT BELIEVE LIKELY

BE. EASIER FROM

SUGGEST YOU CHECK

ON VISA POLICY.

FROG HERE ASSUME IF IT NOT EXPIRED CAN BE USED WITHOUT REVALIDATION. .

SECRET

FAPARENTLY URONG DEF, POSSIBLY

4179 (N 00695) INTENDED

**

UNABLE ENTER

62H51.22

201-306052

Da June 65

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

DISPATCH

tO

AT

Chief, Habit; Chief,

INFO

S1:9,

WEs Chief,

FROMLieR of Station,

SUMECT

CLASSIACATION

SBCRBT

TRESPATON SYMMOL AND NO

0ELA-43,459

HEADOUAITERS FLE NO.

201-

Report of

ACTION REQUIRED

DATE

28 June 1965

RE "133' - (CHBLE " ONE

MARKED FOR INDEING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN DE JUDGED

BY QUALFIED HQ. DESA ONLY

REFERENCIS

Pursuant to the surrestion contained in DIR 04341, 23 April 1965,

ve asked

as they could manage.

After some

weeks has passed, and

had not noved in this direction, ve reprated

our request, pointing out that_

V1 would soon be leaving.

handed and hampered by certain restriotione,

moved in to do wat

they could, and l

aS TIFFANY VAB

We contacted

told them to

land

This

they

did, but then, tithout our being advised,!

He don't know exactly hor long they aotuallyl

but they have not given us a letter (tert below) suggesting

Toffioer advised us informally

thatL

(TIFFANY bad

mentioned that he might

but we don't

know whether in fact he did so.)

2. Here 1e

notes

George I.

Distribution:

chief,

2 Chief,

KUDESK

3 Chief,

v3

chief, 1

2-Chief, KUVOLP

6939 1

Sended 999 asteratie

tensing a1a

FORMA

10-57

VEE PEN OS SONER

-ASSICATION

201 - 306052

5': J0h1955

TRAGE NO

---

## Page 8

SOCHEE AAPON

Chio? i Station

chios of station,

Chief of st.

anKy Anunching the dead Ship

4056

4057

Pare 8, Pare 46.

WHEN AT

.s.* :'

CASSAN

On I0 See 13651

I not We Carter Agent Mufus Y. NODIJAST

in ascarianco with Instructions and fur the next throe days undorent

debpletings, tolofings, an ITLITIR examinatio, and training lo propartien

for his sumor 2265 saignat co

At tos conclusion of this paried

Tolt that 5/1:

ra mboorbed eifletently the gidano given bim,

hnd rumpandod satiamotorily to Case Offless control, ma apparently olear of

Jan me motivated to perfor eroditably throughout his awe

monte trial employment.

Ident-

Ba

RODIGAST esnthet ruporta for 12,14415 June matine

RODIGAST repOrt enl

1'e commento nol

HADLOAST roport on

1's cemento so the

FETIONA

CHOW ME ALCARTHIC

COL

GUS/

to s 1.09, a.0.0.

APIA 2500

ПЕСТ КАРАН

JUN 2 9 1965

25 Juno 1965

801-70605

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SOCIET /KAPOI

APLA 2555

would not

Be relationahlo to MHAll over the longer period lne apparently

bons of constdarable taterest to hal, to the extent that he statod he rould be

interested in sons sort of carper etatus with LUBARY (with ruttresent benefits)

nd pentags one day a "less cover" poultion. At this time la our rolationahip

with ss, borever.

Le comoerned prisily idth what to do with hin

en I septomber 1065. In fact, la vien of tha 19-20 June devlopments 1a I

and the possible postpomont of mont of the activitios 81 me to cover in

afterts to roastabllet kinall as a logiciant

Mus say find 16 not only feasible, but norsary, to sevle

In the days and venka to com da mill be reporting 3/2'8 progres es

he salatna his scoop?ishants and problens through L

and 1a

TOOtInES MIES RODIOT, lo shall be subaltting recondations en 3/7'a Longes

tarm utility so 10911 as to bave more information upon union to male com

judgments. le lace that eddresans will be subjecting the

operation

a to ccartant evalcation and malala thronghout the mems, und m vill apprectate

continued end coordinated guidane on has beat to esploit the unique potential

supruented ly tils annat.

SUPPORT FOR T8B

OPERATION

Jo on 2 June 1965

A ged a letter of agrount wit

I la effect a atract with sl. Upon signing the lott

to Dine P. PODIDAST, & MACIS Caruns Agent bared Inl

who had boon designate

V'o oralde enne offleet.

MODIgAST 18 kno to 87 ner 42o allao L

HonIgAr unt at length with 3/l en 3, 5, and 6 damo and made arrange

J12 June ant undorgo further triains tinfind

al anarity proacnning prior to embarking on a trial menigment of some 10 uni

crorene with tantractions and ma tama tabaratoly to al

Jand forL

TaonIangT's contmot Fopert on thie meting and his roport of

3/ 0 1000 1200000

105t

3o da L5 Sane 9/1 agala mos ANITARY la Hocardanes vith lastrassions

The remlta

• th1s aminition vor forusried 1a

14056. In short, the euteome of the

mintion a condord antinetory for the broncued overutionn te of sh

---

## Page 10

БУСАЕТ/ КАРОК

OPLA 255.

H. On 14 and 15 June RODIAST AgAIn Met WICh 3/1 for further

debriefingn on the latter's ecatacts In I

RODIUsT then brioted bie on:

rogutments for!

Jand shand on the roguint

formanded Is DIA 1B20T and DIR 18675.

RODIGASt's reports on these metings

are also included In Attachment 8 (03C). On 14 June S11 vas pasood $500.00

• an adun an he per die mal throl amans for his sort meeting it

BODIJAST. BODIONTY Considers S/) an upt utudent uno learned tha

Jand this was wboogently

bronght to sh'a attention in the overmll manity briefing he suoired so

MORTOAST •

6, The next RODrOAST contact with 3/1 l8 achedaled for 15 Jelly la

(See CULA 2533 for

roquess for

]station supporto) Ia

we of the l

I the scoting any sll

Do concerned as mch with rethinking 3/1' operational objectives for the

rod folloring 1o July as witn debriefing, briefings, and passage of funda

Fun though latest indientions are that |

w1l1 preosed as schechled

to them the pantbulity that DEN A night be on the soone profiting fron t

mon slee la the politient fortune of bis triendu, and I

7 euddenly

Jones some of 1t0 appeal as an area in which to cary out & minghu tomt

Of 11'n ortton capablin. The next thre wels will tell un mch

und pertape allay my of our probesions.

To Murtheles, DIASt wat be proparod to handle a mumber of

mentalition to his 15 July moting not the least of chose delns a pomelale

Jinion of S1'O monton, To fOllowing sounblo altertives preent thom

vas ve aar tdgarter to addron its attartion to them und to othe

logantal targato ind to onblo rcondntions and sidanco prior to 1

---

## Page 11

Bo The moand ADIdAS meting of the emer with in la tontatively

scheduled fer the noond mot in August, allo to le determinedo Addresses mill

inow that sh'a wife to empouting their third child ale 1i Arust and that sl

Intende to be 1n

_at that tim 15 at all ponsiblo, Although no sold

MODIGANT he mould forego a vialt to

_Jat that the 18 1t vero operationally

IsaIa, ho male find It 11f 1oule to justiry hio aboros to his uite ule

to nori to have a trily Blausiblo and urgent cover ansigment. le mut therefore

anticipato in all 11ialthood that S/1 vill be out of astion for mont of the

11 somebore in Europe wen S1 returna to bo with his wife and w12l at that

tim hope to to la a ponition to divem with 31 the bout employat of his

Intents for the blanes of the ture noth contract period and to parma with

Win his lengy one villatten ne mll. soodgarter views, this, me moded

both uith reupot to the mo inndiately follonus the 15 July meting

Anget periodo

_han so far funded 3/1 to the extent

of $700.00 und hun Initlatal sction to baro his salary and nonsocountable

perittonal advance daposited to bla

• Thest payamte are

boing mede in advance become of SA's Intially pressing financial noeda.

It le our understanding that the 1 July end 1 August 1965 depoulte of $000,00

to 8/3°81

will be affected anouroly and on time three

2 (ae DIE 20944 and DIR 21703)o lotton me also takea to clarity the

mption of sh'o por dion. we have received his initial socourting for travel.

poi dien, and sprutional expinens for the period 8 - 12 June.

10. On the bant of information artiable tol

8/2 has received

to following payments fron MIDAl ainee be ma first contected in

Overge No KATRINCH in Junney of this goar (me have no reeord at

hand of tha

AMOUNT

400. 00

400.00m

400.00

200.00

500.00

100.00

200.00

200.00

500.00

DIAZEE

1/25/65 (0/0)

2/23/65

Apa 12/03

6/2/65

6/3/65

6/3/65

6/3/65

6/12/65

6/74/55

CORSIT

Ope payment per DIR 79506

Ope paywent ser OKLAl 21869

Ops payment par DIR 39974

Ope payment ser DIA 04341

Opa payneut per DIR 04341 (signing bemns)

Орв

malary advance for Jme/65

loancountable one advance for Jm/65

Travel and por dias advance

Travel Advance

Tavel and per dion advanoe

•) mosaury expons inoured in emmetten ulth met opentionn

mun as my bo direeted or anthorind by ODOll.

D) operation expenos in enemas at $200.00 muthly nomonotable

dumn an are seeifically authoried by apro.

1 Us and his fally to a neu restdeo 1f mh rlocation 10 conaldere

entrablo by 5 and ourola so reto of 130,00 per day durine pertoco el

d) pur dien It

---

## Page 12

14-00000

AECHET/ КАРОК

MIA 2105

I PELINARY ASSESSIEL

11 1

woll to note certain farters ebas sunt to saken into calderation as to seas

to devin a long ter operation cuntured on hia capabilition and potential.

For the onto of busty, 11 not prelalon, la will dincasa taran factors inter

the follet hing oct 1941, Built a Moldener :

Security, Termination, ant KAAl Orrational Restrents.

Do as ans boss noted in dela 1,730 Tally matenie

ho tronith of bus porson Iafortion and sderstanding o. L 01

Jespecially In L

and thats arent llen ad

onganisations aimilarito ho appeara to be inford on ourtals

efforte at

seabined with this Inculode und

moretending lo a long liat of paroni contests 1n I

alrolos and a ruputation ns an articulate and committed |

I%. The Agout endos an afr of alf-contidano and promta hinelf

m11 and denteally to interpernal relationshipe..

Ho has demnstrated talent

08 1

espocially as al

Mallo wo bave Lalted 1zfon

ation hoso upon mies to base ma evaluation of the securley and thorong of

nio rupert, they turo tooded to be connistant on the mole and reval the working

of a mind enpale of storin muy vust amunts of Infertion sod rentling 1t

mith minimi stamlat10n. 42 senes to su good oound of the Front lagne

and can gut by in Italien and Spanish is bao had corterble experiene

In interational trawl, aparatly acculating ill to various degree

ol discanor, an hardchip as the core my require. l 18 able to me em

and rape roder operationily, md ho pulally leernea

15. Frozase of his

chareterile so

pons rulativoly unotiod ne a

No Elves the tapeanton of being able to

write up euni triendities rendily sad conly.

POSTLE TOKE

" 16- This la 1 tiay us open to coataeble prelation st

tris point, thongh there are preifle motto ed statute on the part of

An Indienting ho has sought an oretoml relationhip with war fer

mund years.

ho underutand, for enaple • that ho tried to establiar cutmot

ulth OrOB untle a student in Italy to 1951-52, that he appened to be mart

emperetive una emotioned by PISTOL

Jan rolation to the sautotton

of Praidunt lumndy, and thnt ho tock a enteninted (8) rint by writing 1n

Quotly to usu 1n the sur of 1962 orturing sis metons In his contrete

at the outart thut he had to more bloml over the sent there mathil.

Ime Inclanted to BODINST that he mould 1170 tO parlay his prussat anuelation

mit tun tuto a long tr emmer relationhlo includins rectrat.

то, 010.

an has ten alluded to an interest la working for 800I01"e

moves" in a lens covart enpelty montime 1n the future.

Oro bento mutten resto with all el a conorenade

---

## Page 13

egantention and porsonalition, 11 nor the ideolest, of the l

mies thich ho and boss so intisataly involvedo lie has niver soon so far de

to rumann hls birthright and estisants, nor does be enaider himmis

¡ployal after sveral sour of forensionall

activity.

latinates that he mould acmday lite to rotra baco, thengt he double he

muld be allome to live don his past and start a nes eerer in PAPIDE.

19o On tho sals of inferation malrablo to an un could not

to lenie

1e Thore sen a strong cans for the argaut that sard cant slare

« Ilgalilont sole in notirting si to cooperato sita tonna et thia potat

in tine. ALl superts esphests thas he me not jurt broto, but deeply ta

dobe, than he boynn talking tol

station Subsommely he baa beon

seniving vant monto to a salary at a rate portst la uncons of evare

fur a European L

Iles alons a profession! sallots I

Binas dis has had no volld cour story for anything other than the first

dvanco (e) fran

me cannot be sure that he has lat his wife, hia ti

Lo, or his 150110to cirele of assocrates too the ortont of his nomy

comed estime, la 1a cuits empable of thinking ble errationally and

Ins buntly slated that 1t tatos saney to nove" lal

Jend that poverty

so no virtuo to tha "shind tarla? "

2. Art 8/1 does not appear to be an out and out neroenry.

Thire mut he othrr factor than nonsy alons that would lend him to cooperate

with Kaul. It cala moll le tras ha la renotine philosophically to en

outdoes on 1110 that let bin dom despite years af devoted eultivation. Ta

the long debriefine no ruraly. 11 ever, mentioned anyone who be felt had

Jolly nesospllahed anything as & profensional I

« indlestions that he roards lie activities over reet jear me sonint

emonarding, though there in little indiention that ho didn't enjoy man of

uhmt he did en that he doom's demider the emere of the I

Ja just and honorable emo. He mat, simply, have soapprateed th

ruits of son jours of l

motivity with a saumbat Jandien

ago and decided 1t me tien fer a ehung.

22. Cortataly S1l bullie a envincing ens about the rumen

for his brunk with IRl 6, but 1t mut also be noted that ideolos in not

83, Loatod at pros sta another angle, s/2'a futuro prosporte la

my ef this jens (both 1a bia profesatanal and sla parsonal 1110) ver

nything but bright fors to mas Jobles, in dent, to sour extent eunt oft bi

I apparently felt borlens (an far as baring somthime

to nich be could reture in PoDs), and (prem uht serpe of saferention m

om piece tother) ms not emperineing a mutanlly agrable marital 1170.

Intrench's enlics with the

(a powerto in me wrath mod that tin stre too 1% do how beatend fro

chat she ma malthtal in her tum,

---

## Page 14

14-00000

thongh no baw no ofiration of this fren 81) In mal a altanelon

woes ms able to error a a opportmity to le effect, begin mes s

ut of i boie, robulld his on if eston ail sortape on bulla up act

cidi: toud en evental retur so PAPRDI under conditione nich to mould

find bearable.

D0. It 10 latering that 1a his long everentlone wItH NODIGAST

thin Job funt to

time't runly runlly a holo. I claimed that his debto to to brother le

not me mr al

(Hoover, during his LILTS entitlon

un are told that

se more probing to find out 1f

I was indeed under son obligation, flancial or othereila, to certain of

assootates of the pest tus and a half yeart, und what

mund me an outpouring of all the all and not so mll debte be ou

VIrtually toryne ho know. Formost mong them me the dest of som

I 1500 to me mother ilm tech or not be fools premed to repry le

not as important as the fact that thore men to be tims mom 1t welche

hony is en nio atada

Be Quing S1 the last word, the folloring report from HIDIONET

a lie 14 no cameration with the Agent should be siren careful constanrations

"It was elem tnt he me tolling me, without spilling it out in words, that be

and mode up his mint to cooperate with on boomes, or partly bocause, he had

I hnd the fealing that he did not mut to my outright that be us changing

no poltel oritation for foer that un muld not bellow his, but that i

thot ho aight vury voll be doing gos I think there was earthing seale

In his protestation that he men't with in only for the monry'.

JUTO & CHIDARE

26. The leant thrt em be suid of 31 In mring his mintionhip

W1th hie WANt contecte so far la that to 18 not doello and passive. a

apposs to be a solf starter with a suse of what la bronny to grt on

opration off the ground. Prom his secount of his sort for IEH C It would

apper that he en honestly einia a gent doml of eredie for putting thi

anto business

27. To date S/ bau asproned no reluctance to undertale ble

to I bal, of come, me a can for morting out of

Let th

I mat this was prior to his entering

Sato a formal rulersemenip with OUrs.

o aTarT Male that be has boon aste to establent a o

ye of carting support aith 87 and pertape eva mn degree of perman

apport.

Thay have had ame hullidor metings so fer, felling throa

working mention 1s E

_RODIGAST ine stronand to bie the vital Importanon

I god merity huhite, not the lost of bich timoties ans piracent

babulor no mll hop hia cut el eomronteing sitations (in sappot to bia

work for Haule

29. In has boon en cian for all ide meting with HIDIOT

i bnn complied wll with intructions he mbuitted without roaltati

• the LYLMR ad agreed to work Mis

_acopting the rime tavolved

Do 51 has not fatimi to seniod NODIJATT

Of the prabhin comt of his miop and opurational netivities unite 1a

Jund han buen anned that nOrahst ought fom the $20.00 pur dim

---

## Page 15

CZA 2500

right on up the lin, medless to say,

that rOUTeST was eoncerned for hia rolfare.

A seemed noot hapuy to inow

dymmaten, and |

agents. RooTasT experience l' martia lo coma novated in te

no rearvations about hODIdAsTa mbility to keep E

maths abrade

Jo A last nord on the utter of hamiltogs tams 0r9r, do ta:

112 hAS deRlE MICh RATIOACH, TINPAT, und ROUIDAST and has boon forthoeming

mden allo Thoro 1a no indiontion at this early stago thot be bna almond lla

sulationahto «ita KUAl on a perear-to purcon plane nor are te are be

aboald bo encouriend to do so. As reprenuntatives of ObrutE the three

pornons mntioned above have apparently eurned s/l'a trust, and anyone

introduond to him by one of than would probably be acepted with the amme

degree of confidenoe should the introdaction of another cane offlour become

measury. In effect, than, ve forense no handling problen with 3/1 as far

an a change in ense offlors ulght he concerned. le would point out.

though, that 3h has lom ladled sympathetlolly and without hostllity to

ite and that thoes who have dealt uith lan muld strongly advice tira 1

ligent diretion and agains a provocative er heavy haried appromen 1

problems one would must to contand nith in any operation. At the o

time 1t lo that very backzrand that mies him valuable to KUBArk. ThefOr

enn dirent many logloal asprnhensions about 118 portenni loyalty an

notivation (diaced peerionaly) and proceed to question of operationn

socurIty.

Do Parthermor, INCl A siers at thie nomut to bold no grum

• crady agminut 5n as 51 holde againt win, and INCH A may It122 bew

hutter commections in the

palally no in vior of the 1y 20 me 1915 dontall of thal

Immn, and bie fortune doelton

to a LaTes proportion to ete

_bes Long been

socording to s1..

In the papire el 22 due un road that, in i startling development," form

FEATE

---

## Page 16

4000000

OPIA 2953

01noo Jennary vith onl

to give as a source. Ma wife, who 10 a

lo prantly spielous of his activities, he my

Largely boonuse he rooalred a phane call from I

Jin Jammery

explained it was a FaPADIS. L

Ipasaing through who wishad to talk

with him, to unlob sho mas suppored to bar retortods

"My should sousan

men PAPaDe Do laterated la you and, mororer, why should you be interested

In workins fer erythias of arons fun PBPRIe"

s/s told BODIcATE that tha

initiated kyl

000t did not fully dipal her spelet

«1'o maction to th VuTl examtation on the

Do Is sens to bo most cuncornad that his wife not find ou

= la vorking fer Orrot, let aleno KUNAl, and no prommo he bao samon t

lond us to bellew he could not omnt on her discretion and Loyalty in all

«rontanes I relationip with his sir, therefore, ust be utated

w1th sono care to insure that 1% dons not comprias an untur basard or ebut

#he does not bocan vulosrable in son may to foroes intadeal to bie eftoetive

os 15 June Ss, told soort him wife told him on the pir

tan e lotter to him fron INKH D urned him to be careful "ne things might

Be "hot" for his In

IRA D had apparuntly hoard of sh's forthootg

trip 1800 L

and 37 surmiacs this mans aw

ol nio muser o travela must be rather common inorledgo by nor.

Do At TIPAY's remest 3/ let It E kne he ma 1a L

a S/1 mys thnt latter "cate running arrand" to 10o kit. s/2'e rupe

en thia contaet ens passed to tel

Station 17 eune kyl

In ten

supert is $1's anement that Insa l wonid probably to willing to tarl

tO ROOTCAST'" "arvice.

" No shall diseuda this case farther with

station, but in the wantim it should be noted for the roord that as lon

• Sh 10 enid by uny to be a KUaiRi agent, 1t mould not be ureasonmale

to menane that IN E aight connect in approneh by an OUYOU representatiw

with his roomt comersations with S/1. Therefor, the poraibility of a

Aap here shorid not be inorido

40.

AS DIE SO S/3'0 CUREROtE Mith SUSAN, DO inors no ene By

tro me and his cano offloor illl contima to l

Ita all futur

I RODINST has mirady ruportedthe rther mettling «pranor o

having S2 t011 his

"I think I've men you supplice bifor.

mys this la quite posaible. More 31 over to stay la

for & conidun

able length of time the chanore are lot remote that nODIcAse a sdemit

mold Do compromand to 31.

---

## Page 17

14.000g0

.?

SCIT RA

OzA 350-

see +9 16-441

Al, The qunation ol turnintion 10 not sondesto at this tim, fes

epliest in the lotter of acresent vulch 3/1 algand sa as torniminos a

I Sepsanber 1965 undese apseifle sanditions are not. It 1is doubtstul that

KUDANS vIll Indood terminato 8/l on that date unleas mob action 20 and

o In the out of the toriantion of 87 ne forens at thre

two no sent eno for comona mbout poetle reperountens agnint

pornol or Installations, In addition to the una of alloons, sODIJAy

motings with him will be ln third countries, and 3 has not been pamel

elmenified Inferantlons in dons wep to his posanton antertals for th

I Se moired training in the uns Of theta miteriale

Tel tao I

Por a chanderine meaties.

axar

months

fer at leant tan

43, Should 1t pruve nonenry to terminate S1 the erpatent

danger nich no ema antleipate at thie tin trous out of bla considerabto

mk111 as aL

Jand the pornibility that this still git be used to

Juhich he ban now forester.

HELE

immedgo of our aperations uni personal has been bart to a minima lenor

the danger of him l

bolteve, not seat and a probles uniot, though me mt artieronto 1t

Bolimo to be remote.

A TALE ONUSTONAL FRUITINES

Wo All conourned would agree that a EUBAI agent no 1e

amhie to mavion KiTAS operstional requiremente would not be worth hin

hoop. At the man $10, 18 nonld be presumptions so sxpoot thet in a altation

hern the aguas in being handled at er's lengta nas under such disadumtage

a tis end dintanon as la S/2'0 saso, KUARK's operational ruputratat

could be rogularly and, 1l moomenry, spoodly maud sentant the nant'

polities and sproifle requiremete levied on the sout.

45. do far ta DaNK's relationahis with 311 mo have elled

a seel target arua for hin, lovied the requirent that to prove to

at his baade eprutional tatt.

hhat we have niged, in effect, 1n a nirt

turm operation minaton upon which longer tern operuttons alett be bront

meognition of his monto Don guntion to be poned 1as Ana KUBOt at thin

Elm, or 8122 16 bave on 1 September 1955, an anlent for S1 La unde ha

ena find antiamotion in proding a marbetablo procart and find that approval

und rocognition uhieh he regaires?.. He mst be none poolfse with him tha

mgmin in tus months for diacuunions.

mago to rovin with the varion area diviiion thom grographlo ares in

mies s1'a taints could to fully applaited !

oto. @teo) and to inve a definiti

annient fer 3/1 in had at the mont no mootlate the ertenaion of lie

A7o certainly the mates chango of landerhis see ba

"appetud to affuot the I

luba hage dran succor fras the

JAn noted in the

potses on nourity, it le masansle to ammune that S/A mill be in a le

---

## Page 18

SECTET KAPOK

On 200.

than fertitom poultten if his offorts to maut himelf ca

the l

stage are to not uito triattate from DEl A I0n a true

no seat.

617 mad

1195% tend to support the cotinato that sa

frienda in the

Jany nor ba sons, uhile Da A's

friends my soon be le positions of perer.

Whim 1t 1a sterl too

early to an that moh a vitution will 1180, 11 10 not too soon to

mmons the poombia dango this could do 8A In the smon target son no

tur meatend him and to intch clonly for signs the he my truly be burned

tuyond operutton! morimes to suAl. ve muld hose tate sonia mot

10. In the went, then, that th next to month's notivitie

aproniuo S2'a eredentiala in thol

where mild

m so fron theret one mention would be a Tor tol

maero kis bruin

and I

a mabor e

Jand ta certate

Jetrales. He might find & Job

math INi B sho my wil mond a a crutat lI S/1'o rports of l10 diminishing

inturos are to be given ardense.

In stort, stape onght to be tate nor

to dofine the altomatims mmiting 41 no ol 1 Septeuber 1965.

my @ PERC

÷!"!

---

## Page 19

DISPATCH

CLASSIIIATIOAN

DESPATCH SYMBCA ANO NO.

BECRET MI

054e4-43,458

1O

Chief, RUDESK

INFO

Chief,

Chief, WE; Chief, A

FROM

Chief of Station,

SUINECT

KUDESE

-Pelated

ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCECSI

HEADQUAITERS FILE NOI

201-

DATE

25 June 1965

RE: "43-J" - (CHECK " ONE

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIRED MQ. DESK ONLY

lo Attached aro elected extraots fro

терот ів.

land the itens should be treated

1в a

necerdingly.

George H. KANZENBACH

Attachment:

Herew th

Diatributions

2 Chief, KUDRSK /att a/w

2-Chief,

w/att b/

Chief, 1E w/att b/

2 Chiof, AP w/att a/w

Escarted tren saunte

FORN

105 53

(ACH

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORAAS

38-99, 51-25A AND 51.29

WHICH ARE OBSCRETE

CS COPY

CLASSIFIC

SECRISI

201-306852041985

781-128665

PAGE NO

1

I CONTINUED

---

## Page 20

31 :2: 1955

:

TO:

Chier, KIDes

a0ks siel o Stazion

ttacasent +0 02143945

5 Jure 196

:paiagment

---

## Page 21

13* June, Cost.

-57725al

---

## Page 22

14-00000

Ist Juno, Cont-

3 1272

3

---

## Page 23

14-00000

-

SECRET -

24 JUN 1965

-.

TO:

Director

Jederal Burena of Investigation

Attenion: Ali. s. J. Papich

FROM:

Doputy Directery for Plans

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation

d. Ferwarded herewith as Altachment ta a Xerox copy of s

photostas of a

785 12

ARachment: I'

C/ICG-

22 June 1965

SECRET

1 • C/G

1- CHIL

1 - RIBA

201-7591451

1 - ClICGIAMS

---

## Page 24

14-00009

17615-3:

none Dues too

DEST 0: 261-30605 61199ED MESSACE

-1,17

RET.

O56.

SECRET

PE0S0N/WN1Y NOTIFIES

TOTAL COPIES

37

REPRODUCT ION PROMIBITED

LART

AFrI

INFO

PILE, VR, CAT, CAlay

I am COPT

BOYANCE CODY

Done CoLarea (Trueso

AF/OF

0135

EE l

AN C

S

123721C

VINCEX

ECRET 231117Z

PRIORITY DIR INFO PRIORITY

CITE

ORPREY

KUDESK

REF

DIR 28944

Б

DIR 21708

3983 NOT SENT

1• REQUEST DIR RELAYL

FOR DEPOSITS IN

2 •L

PLS ADVISE WHER TRANSFERS EFFECTED.

3. NO INDEX

SECRET

CFM

SECRET

4115 CILIBERTI ACTING

23065M, 96790

(IN 82309)

SUBSTANCE REF C, ESPECIALLY DEADLINES

TiN

201-306052

2'3 June o5

---

## Page 25

3i Jones

Talked to

I this corning about

se feels that he is on the

level iith us, that he is legitimately disenchanted with the

that he

sees hinsel as a loyal imerican, that YATZZI8:0 as Incorrect in saing that

would find it morally mpugnant to act as

agent but

would illingly serve as an FI collection asset (which doesn't make a whole lot

o sense is not in the least reluctant to take the trut me, passed

It apparently clean. The cover Is ad-ittedly a bit "11-sey, but is supplemented

by a

for which he will do sone L

and--

belleves that he understands perhaps better than he did the need

for cover and attribution of income. Contract provides for $500 a month plus

$100 non accountable ops expenses plus $10 a day while in

plus $20

a day while In travel status, 1 June through 31 August, renewable for i to

year priod if rutually desirable and satisfactory, with 30 day termination

clause.

what

particularly one

had been asked to do for us in

developments in thel

had been fiven any requirements which dealt with strictlyl

he said No, that Fodigast had been told that we would send further requirenents

for the meeting tentatively scheduled :1th

or sobe such name.

I asked

and he replied " to work

and a11

I asked if be

matters and

arounsl...

10 Jane.

I talked to

who wilt draw to a list of requirements to send FODIGAST

-and I agreed-that I would open-ope-files on

ever- though.

we have no project yet. and he will five me the contents of his soft file to

Include in 1t.

He is also hiving the 20a file tidied up by RI and will have 1t

charged to AP/1

NP

---

## Page 26

1d-0d0d

iokilin

SECRET

caluf MOU

chiel, Whesl, Chiel of statton.

Chlef of Statten. L

J'Oparallonal

YesParY/Oparutdonal Centact 11th Idon A

Ichlet. i

Por le Inforuation 9f C03.

MTESX and YUIOLP ars Joirtly

mngmanl'la che operational exaloltation or the

pecullar talenta and enntacte

of a nly acpulred asset.

(1 (Idon B)

Il hen bedl e mther

tarbulent carosr an aL

aad

Che post nevaral yenre durlag unleh elro be cane to lrou (und be knoim br)

a mnber of stgnltteant personnlitiee 1n trel

Tof Bereral

feong these pernenniltlen te iden A. L

ans been denoosd uithia toese sano elreles as & KUAiK agant for sono tina,

thegh mill Janwry of tnli; yenr ruahir nas not 10 oontact uith bia

,meat wclter an

to rorstebllah Limel! 1n

7 1a 1n |

Jas a prelude to a loni

T{at KuRArx's behast) tarpoted against t2el

which are apparantly being

Eiven lacrastrgly direct sapport by

2.

One ef

1a D18

nomulatenoe with Iden A nto las told bin that, peroonally, he doos sot

mrare the doubts sprend aboutl

1 because, as Idon & pute 1t.

V'e primury acouser not enly charges to 10 a NUBiTN apunt but alno

ma ideo l agent, undcl Iden A of couraa moen not so ba the caso

However.

V2 1o nocually 1n tio proonas ol seexiag to incratlate timpell vita

Idan d end el wiming hio confidence to suot m ertent that tbalr personal

rolationahiy sight sarve «s

Vi's credentials for some tias to come

At prument the relatioarip ahor ofeno of boing oft to a cood stare.

1 volted Iden A 1n

an y iune 1865 ulth the satantion of

snttins binselfl

led Iden d'al

IIden C.

Idun d told tin trat. In fnct. Idea ¿ nas sendime Ioen a to

the emmers actiwitien there

Iden A than added Chat Iden D wald set f

toce hol earourd".

_(c/e Iden E) so thatL

A. could

"Satro

1a omnders thia a fercattous elrrssitanco in trat

Attnazmurte:

conttnined

Idmntity Llut a0e

Boct tne

Disträmtson:

§- Dalef. +0m 166e m

V2 - Chier. WUDIK u/itt 1

8 - cau.

wntt 1

2 - Carer, is M/ItE 1

01A-2341

SICAБT

€I3#!

Exctedet Ron Eant.

frY9J:: 13, 898

Pesigeg e1 jeg

18 đamn 1365

JUN 2 2 1965

20 126:1913

---

## Page 27

CL-541

ho en explett lien ! es a L

3. Of splarey intere et thle come sons te the Part Chas lo

A has erpressed tol

Vi rita analsaraction uses ton proprosa lo date

aden 1 clalas Cat an

antreilen lo vuepord to be sortins on a

bat lill te oas obere

nothtes fren bls so evr als sontes

Vi Bien sold Iden A trat ne Mienil

could de theL

l feela ho codid cont

bis personal riassonanis ide lden a

* Tere ue obulonaiy orraltonai und ilatten polley mentioas trat

should de conolierod in tile coasent.

First of all, on sole rorrter or

the

Modens rolssans 10 1

Il Maoll Is le reall sooking

•em Ino barlo of the rnues ofL

Jeu offlon. Loendly, voula the eine to

Un 19:707 national Interes Sanoret In eCol

18 1a 100

V argore tart. En tro contrary. 10

sonld nure no ne exeapt rastoly loen a alenalt, besamoa

ras no intention a recond

In any sade fey that wmald be

11 did not maderten tool

J01, the Australin nald protag coo termE, baler 100 les anymy.

5, No aro sur that ent romes eon seo in tole eltantlos too soeds of

a moral erratienal contart vát Iden A mo, Aceoriies to varto r020rt

of 4h0

I la atarting so lese 1la erlp en la ena

In sy wert, mess atular to the contery, m latent to mecurige

A lo contam demolosias da relationsals men soen d esselait a

_so er forurdin so Feadquarter (use)

Juni rugual tant tro sorrocrlato offico la rici? la

3e coald than reseri

handmand med Anuniva

BcIAst nil be metingl

Vin Je or sam 15 duig. 18 that

hofinital in rand tre faryt nnt of

Angmot son do vill de levin fer il socas es soring it

---

## Page 28

14-00000

:

.....:

aA 4501

..-

"- te?"

---

## Page 29

9999

Jetty A -

Mont 1 .

Kentsy?.

---

## Page 30

DISPATCH

CLASSAFICATION

SECBET

TO

INFER

FROM

Chief. KeaRsK

Chief,

of Station

Chief, KUVOLT, Chios, WE, Chiet

chief of Station.

BUBLECT

Report on

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Refs

Following is the full tort of the

whioh was

tranenitted under ref

PROCESSING

ACTION

MAHARD FIN CHOENING

NO INCEX-AG REQUIRED

OALY QUALIFIED

GA-QUANTERS DESI

CAN NIGE INDONING

ABSTRACT

AH: CHOF K

ACCOR

LISHED

lotter, a part of

S/1 reported to Station in Hay that he had had an offer of

• Job

on

but there was no intention of his aocepting it. :

has none doubte about whother S/l in laot roceived thiu

much money from

We sunpect that he has told people this to enhance

hie stature as o

Iwe still wonder, though, what funde he

may have been covering this way,

sinoe ve had not contaoted him as of the

time in question.

Perhaps, as a result of rel,

may shed some

light on this point.

Distribution:

Achief, ruDest

2 Chief,

2 chief,

3 Chie1, 18

-Chief.d

es COPT

- Gut Crack

CROSS REFERENCE TO

" she whe

le delicould tone land.

felian a

hs!

CLASSIFICATION

leninting and

#ectasshicatian

201-306052

DATE TYPER

DATE DISPATCHED

17 June 1965

12: MUN 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND FELIABER

05A 43, 380

MEADOLARTENS FLE PUMBER

201.

---

## Page 31

casell at cantion.

*

PRIORITY

hief of statlonl

operational

once

a peely scedred sorenllet

asset tom

On er. about 15 July 17t5

V1 ma11 preced fres hie

enront, base ef eperations L

180 mont with iodinast in

..

11 Diana to arag with Iden a

•Ida B's aerment uny be cred us a mering alta fer 1oDidist und

1 men soon i 1o at mort.

In ries of its ve raquest station

and lenquarters traces (19u0k nel

FOrSALt will sor then litely roguire cuntle

sport in the nature of alet and suming facilitied for domeso

ench traval etrapses forl

V1 (mich ure to be s/a'a to leadquate.

and enble come lacilities should the nood aime.

RODIGANT 1e lamma to

othere in e:tation.

RocIDAsT de aloo loom to sad hams the

permanel in

• Me sente sportedase baring tre

stallon el four enrileas

renuntense concurning your capability to ruder the Ipe of 1:30r

moted above. ROCIONET MoniA Dian so sae cantact uili lie Station

weth the station monia desire sal

ames ty 1108 (800

• 005

Caler.

KORE SI

casel. "

14070)

TC:

+ toer DIR

JEGRET

JUN 17 1965

201-30605

17 dano 4263

2001267712

15779131

6001-4483990

---

## Page 32

file

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/ KAPOK

PRO

POSED

TO

Chief, KUDISK

INFO

Ch105g

SUEUECT

Chief of Station,

KUDESK

Chief, VS, Chief, KUHOLE

RIE

Report

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1.

Attached is a copy of an iten oulled Iron a report of

refleoting contaot. between

the Oultural Officar at thel

and

There 1u

nothing partioularly ner or startling hore, and 1t in formarded for

2e

Im, of courmo, the wife of

201-706052

PROCESSING

ACTION

WASHE

MADED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

CALLY QUALITIED

HEADQUARTENS DESAL

CAN MOGE MDELUND

ABSTRACT

Coorge H.

Attschrents

Horowith

Diatribution:

Chief, KuDesK w/att b/w

z Chief,

3Ch10r,

NE w/att h"

2 Chios, KOlaF Matt b/o

Entedat trus saluestle

downgrating and

fat: + 97101046139

latt

ES COPY

MOSS REFERENCE TO

CLASH ICATION

SACHET/ KAPOK

201-306052

DATE TYPE:

DATE DISPATCHED

M 7 JUN 1965

16 June 1965

DISPATCH SYMECE AND FILIBER

011443, 353

MEADOLARTERS FRE PILINGEA

201-306052.

1902929

---

## Page 33

14-00000

70:

ChIel, KUDESK

FRONs Chie: 01 Station,

Attachrort to 0511-43, 353

16 June 1965

#le : 150-19-43353

CS COP"

- І брей ми ро рфоно , не

mattient 40900 1516-40079 hatte. arant abon.

201-366052

---

## Page 34

DISPATCH

CASt CATION

S302 ET

PAPER

Ca10f, 305935%

Pa10te

Shiel, in; Caio: de Station,

FICA

PROCESSING

ACT CH

I DAI+ED FIA SCENE

its 193IX:05 605: 324

MICES PEEK

MASTERCY

NO MOROFER

Cesar of Stations

WHET

KU23S.

Processed

ACTION ALQUALO - REFERENCES

Frenmitted torevità za copias (one for XUDeSt, one 10s

• to Drage data restion findeed to lete o

Station i= Indebted to Roberta I. EORRay! or

hor sugerb vor's in preparing this arcallent study.

No have mada moat o this zaterial milablo to

•soctions headed

Tand

lin tee

and

wore not saaaad to

3.

lo are rotainine one copy o? the entire study, shich vo are

cacing arailable for ravior byl

too Lava arpressed intorost

In this nateria?.

He trust trat

Teadquarters will be approp-iately

advised of the contents o. riese para:s.

4. No sue no reason for

Station to rotals this cozy in tha

filor, and propose to destroy it unless Tendquartora sta un to serd it on to

sore other aditosseo. Sicilariy, se yan to dastroy our cozy of the rougà

transcript os tie debrioling (pravioual formardod undor O5il 42,706, 9 Mares

1965) maless Zeadquartera rould like as to send it on.

In asther case, let un

brow of your visces regardinz those iters by, say, 15 Julj. In the abserce

o any inst-uction by tast tira, le

sill destroy then.

George I. KAEZOSDACH

Attachront:

Eezawith

Distributiong

250101,

2Ch10.,

5/at* k/1

3 Chie?, 1= wo

att

2-00S,

1/o att

2 6a101,

4 wo

att

Er CoPy iN

200171-1564

CROSS REFERDICE TO

CASEATN

936331

27n3523

destinia

201-306052

DATE TYPED

15 Juma 1965

DUE DSPATCHED

T7 JUNISES

; Ostal-43, 329

READGUANTERS FLE NUMBIA

201.

Matt, 20

---

## Page 35

14-00000

CLASSIES TO PILE +O-261-386052

FILE DISAL DET.

DISTREY OsIe.

PASSIFIED KESSAGE

15

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTIC

IRID COPY

ADVANTE rORY

"ECRETIO

PRIORITY DIR INFE

ORPRE Y

4053

TIZE

ASSIN:

MOURSE

REF A

B

3933

(N33509)

1540171?92

5.384

0893584

IN VISK REF

REGRET HAS EXPLORE WITY DIZARN CAPES

EFFECT SUGGESTED ENTERICA BISK TRANSFER INDER CONDITIONE SEE FIES

REF A.

FiGHT-BE LOGICHL SOURCE IF CAFABILIT EXISTS.

20 NO INDEX.

SECRET

A SCENESTED ENTERIDI

P9iL TRiguiTar.

201-306052

---

## Page 36

• §no

CLASSIFT TO FILE

ad.

FILE HIDD

HEY, TO BANCH D

•FIED NESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT BOTAFIED

TOTAL COPIES

42

201-

3

REPRODUCTION PROMIS

Foon

ADYANCE COPY

UN 8 1

WE 8

D RID COPY

ELE, VR, CA 2, CAle 4, AFt, CI, CIlops, CIre R, CI/eA, F1, TSD 6,

FE6, RILAN

SECRET 1515332

DIR INFO

CITE

4256

KUDESK

REẺ A.

B.

ERPREY

7991

7955

15 Jun 65 IN 90665

(N81357)

QNBIATIO

235

0281

c.

DIP.

D.

15660

5987

ABSTE'ST

1o.

ARC. PROCEEDED

6182159)1

(S) PET RODIGAST (R) 12 JUNE

_WHERE & DEBRIEFED S AND TAUGHT HIM

AS PLANNED

2.

IN 13 JUNE LCFLUTTER S ANSWERED NEGATIVE TO FOLLOWING

KEY QUESTIONS WITH NO INDICATION

R'copt

RET

201-306052

---

## Page 37

14-00000

(PER 81313(1987361)

FiNg 665 Fage 2

RID/MiS

30. 14 JUNE R BRIEFED S REL

ETC,

ADVANCED 733 DOLLARS CASH

PASSED S

TOWARD TRAVEL AND PER DIEN®

Ao SETAL

O/A 28 JUNE VIA SURFACE TRANSPORT FROM

S FUTURE CONTACIS WITH R SCHEDULED OUTSIDE

NO RPT NO

CONTACT REQUESTED BUT WOULD APPRECIATE INFO HIS

PCTIVITIES AS MAY BE ACQUIRED PASSIVELY BY STA STAFF PERSONNEL.

5.. POUCHING COMPREVENSIVE WRAP-UP.

5a. INDEX 201-336352®

# Siegg ested

for

SEGREI

be obtained frem

CFA

??!t

a dan no dancind opera ia

3001210.40r0r

---

## Page 38

ei-d

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICAHON

SECRET

TO Chief, KUDE

Chief, WE, Chief, AP; Chief, KUlOurs Chief,

Chid of Station,

FROM

Chior of Station.

SWANECT

Report on

ACTION RESURED

REFERENCE

DISPAICH SYMION AND NO

051A 43, 311

MEADOLARTEES PLE NO

201.

DATE

11 June 1965

RE: "AT" - CHECK 9 ONE

MANTED FOR INDING

NO INDECIG REQUIRED

INDEUNG CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Vollowing in the text of a

letter, dated 2 Junes

CoOTge I.

Distributions

2 Chief, LUDESK

3 Chielg

WE

2 Chief,

AF

2 Chief,

KUNCET

€ 005g L

8 Chief,

out Paradi

33208

+530-0430

ES Cert

201-306052

FORM

1059

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMS

CLASSIFCATCA

SECRET

PAGE NO

---

## Page 39

cd-i thou

OSSACAMON

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, KUDESK

INFO

Chief, WE Chief,

A Chief of Station,

FROWA

Chief of station

SULECT

LUNESE

ACTON HOURED

DISPATEN SPIROI AND NO

OH 43, 308

MEADOLAITES FUE NO

(AtERs RODIGAST), Chios,

Y1 and trio

DATE

10 Juno 1965

KE: "OT (CHECK "Y" ONE

ALANCED FOR INDEUNG

EXT NO NOOKING REQUIED

DOING CAN BE JUDGE!

Y QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLI

Distributions

2 Ch101,

KUDESK

3 Chief,

13

2003,

2 Chief,

AP

I Out Pouch

6803 1

Enriode 2 903 ::

425917473

tretze to

IS COPY

83 57

53

USE PRE•TORS EDITIONE

REPLACES FOESS

50-51 7.29A AAZO 51-7

AHICH IT CISCUME

CLASANCATION

SECRET

201-306052

PACE NO

CONTRAD

---

## Page 40

14-00000

12008

3205-1:

CLASSIFY TO FILE DO.

I-REE TO FILE NO.

FILE PIOL BET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY I

Ds€.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UHIT MOTIFIES

TOTAL COPIES

30

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ACTIOn

AOVANCE COPY

TINE

iNES

RID COPY

П.880ев

EL, KE, CAR, CAR is OF E, SL, ARDP, CA i, eleRs, egen

celas

10 Jm 65m m8736!

E CRET 191531Z

INFO DIR

CITE

8101

KUDESK KUWOLF

REPORT STATES AFTER HIS QUARREL WITH

_ IN 1964,

1 RECEIVED 200 POUNDS AS "PERSONAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE"

ALSO GAVE HIM FINANCIAL HELP*.

FUNDS GIVEN TO S/B, BUT ASSUME

FROM

2=

DO NOT KNOW WHEN

BETWEEN JULY AND NOVEMBER 1964.

3. IT POSSIBLE, OF COURSE, ULTIMATS SOURCE

S/SO MIGHT BE USEFUL, NONTHELESS, GET S/I COMMENTS.

SECRET

CFN

INFO IS

SECRET

unsalieted, is duit we

---

## Page 41

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATION

PROCESSNNG ACTION

MARKED FI MDERKA

INFO

FROm

SUNG

Chief of Station,

Chief, Wil Chiof,

Chief of stationa

mlot of Statiou

/Operational

(Attentions COVIDALS)

NO COENAT HEGINNED

OILY GOALIFIED DESI

CAN NOGE INDELIE

HACHO IS

ACTION RIQUIRED - REFERENCES

FoIs OFPA 79622, 19 Yay 1965 (not sont all adrensoni)

On 4 Junel

Y1 providad the fallouing Infortion on the personal-

1ãy and Living pattern of Subjeat which de hope ill Do helped to soTalls

Subjeot in anarting with dosire for revenge againat those the have

out bin off from all meaninghal politioal sotivity and probably

Iron a source of inoone no well. (NOris Subjoot told 3/1 4hat

wap owes

him some money®

Do In Intellootual, Subjeot has never boen partloularly offoetive in

tho arra of pinationl organinational pol1t10l.

In the vonne that in a confliot nituation he tando to pull badico

In other vorde he is not aggresalve by nature. At the some time,

3/1 felt cortain that Subjeot"s Indignation and desire fos revengo

mere dooply coated in his notions ant to mould not be able 8o

milonalise any there feeling.

Subjeot in basioully a trionly and courteous persot.

Sul joes

French and Spaninh but no gllm

Hie wife,

desaribed by s/1 an a miner personality than subjoot, doon speal

Jubjoot has airod feolings torrdo

but uppermost is hia

desire to robabilitato binsolf with the

"aleitar." It

So thought that 11 nomone folophoned Subjoat and made referenoo to

subjoot would

tovazrading and

ceclassificatien

Subjeet han Arrogular vorking hours at the ml 18 wald be eany

for hin to leave the job for an hour or. tro without anyone beooning

He worke on research projoots and more or lem se

him on bours.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Amiod 18 ho thought subjoot would be in a ponition to

Information on the

provide mo!

3/1. amid Chal

he thought Subjoot me roll informed and, 18 willing, would be

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

COPY

08t 43, 294

9 Jano 1965 721-306050

NOB FILE MUNIER

SUCRET I

---

## Page 42

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

ELASEIMICATION

DISPATEN SYMBOL AND NUMBE

OELA 43, 294

nio to provide a crent deal of infortion dempite Me having

been jushed aside fros notive and diroot partiairation in recent

Banil en the forgoing, the Dost ploy for Sottine at Subjeet might

bo a

wish ahe

protest for meeting hin alone and deferring all dotalled questions to men

a meeting on the roundo of not wanting to dinouss thees over the telophone.

Is this gets Subjeot out, then corrans oould arologise for the minor

dosoption ile enlaining that 1t mo requied by sonson of his not vating

8e ones inboes osboranment or injury in the couran of contacting him.

deed hunting®

Ja It may Do pomalble for

Jl so oentaos subjoot during hia visit

711 - 17 June.

If COVEMs Told like to get a maro current

manding on subjnot, ploase gut in touch with Eutus I LODGAST, the •111 be

mooting S/1 on 12 June.

Jonepy &. TIPYAY

Distri bations

2 00S, I

A Chlei,

70h10s.

2005,

2 Chlor, tupper

](ARENA COVERIALS)

.:.:

рдат но.

FORM

S-€0

53c

USE pREMOUS EDITION.

SECRET

---

## Page 43

DISPATCH

Sit IM

1O

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARNES F'B INDEXIME

DEO IODENIS REQUIRED

Chief, LUDESK

Chief,

WEs

Chie,

KURIOT, Chief

Pes Chiel, Als Chief, MUndley

Chiof,

FACH

CAM JUDGE INDEX

ABSTRACE

I CHOF IIB

Chief of Station.

WHISK ORIRIT

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1.

Trenamitted ag

separate oover attachment are copies of correspondence

from the l

_to L

_Y!. Among these materials in an original oopy of one

lotter, whion 1s forwarded for KURIOT's exemplar stockpile.

2.

Thene materiale vere passed to TIFPANY by S/1o

3.

Station ie not

antioipate passing any of it to

inanine.

opples of this saterial, nos do ve

CCO:

LISHEI

Kat

000T80 I KATZSACIE

Attachments

(USC)

Distribations

KUDESK w/att (USC)

3 0h101,

att

2 Chior, FB "/o att

a Chief,

A? "/o att

2 chief, KUWOLF "/o att

2 Chief,

KURIOT watt (usc)

a Chief,

/o att

Ester-

declassificaties

CS COPY

а о по . о

CHOSS REFE

DUCE TO

201-306052

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

8 June 1965

DISPATCH SURABLE ARE PILATER

0EL4 43,273

MEADOUIARTEIS FILE FLIMBER

201-306052

---

## Page 44

".""

25001

00000-b1

---

## Page 45

14-00000

---

## Page 46

14-00000

- 22020e0 pas

4520-25

FCzuiaddn

---

## Page 47

1d-0n0d

sDasasea

---

## Page 48

14-00000

---

## Page 49

14-00000

---

## Page 50

14-00000

÷ :

25621

---

## Page 51

14-000

8-88 SUAW

DJ VES

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO-ÍLI'SICLE ZE CLASSIFTED MESSAGE

TO

#ILE nO.

FILE

HoD

DEStHDY

cilde

Fie

20019

TOTAL COPIES 282

SECRET

PERSON/INIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

WETTE

ADVANCE COPY

ORID COPY

FLE, VR, CAR, SALOA, CL, COA, EI, ELINTZ, RiLAN

094 8

SE CRET 0711482

172658184527

PRIORITY DIR INFO

CITE

3990

AFI

KUDESK

QXPREY

REF

7991

IN81357)+

1 IN FINAL

MEETING

41 (s)

TOLD RODIGAST TIFFANY

HE ASSUMED PER DIEM WOULD ACCRUE S ENTIRE

_STAY. S CLAIMED

IMPOSSIBLE LIVE WITHOUT PER DIEM BECAUSE :

A. HIGH COST LIVING

B. MAINTAINING TWO HOUSEHOLDS

AISASEL

Co WIFE BEGINS MATERNITY LEAVE & JULY®

ABSTRACT

1407

2• TIFFANY SUGGESTED TEN DOLLAR PER DIEM COMPROMISE AND S ACCEPTED.

ESTIMATE TOTAL ADDITIONAL EXPENSE 450 DOLLARS.

3= CONSIDER THIS REASONABLE ARRANGEMENT UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES AND A JULia

REQUEST HOS APPROVAL BY COB 10 JUNE•

4. S SUPPLIED FURTHER EVIDENCE GOOD FAITH 6 JUNE IN PASSING

AND

AND

CORRESPONDENCE

FOR COPYING •

POUCHING •

• 5• INDEXS 201-306852.

SECRET

#RIGHT REF

рт 2648 306052

MIDITIONEGS

---

## Page 52

Arest an

DISPATCH

820831/ KAPOR

TO

POSTA

ACTION

I MARD ON MODORA

TO MOON BECOME

Chief of Station

Chief of Station,

Chief, AY

Culor, VIs Ch10se EUDISKe Eh101

rUNOLF

FROM

Chief of statten

SUBJECT

J(poru t1ona)

Plans and Progreen with

ACTION REQUIRED - DEFENDICE

MINTRACT

ROSs OTTA 43,237

Porantad herruith as Ittashment to a report written by TIPPAl

and ROnICAST covering their sooting vithl

V1 during the perio

To Jane.

Though netings will be hold with 3/1 oa 6 and 7 June, 18 18

not expooted that these v1ll jroduce any non Inforation to alter the

mabetanoe of Attaahment. Info mpplied oy 3/1 on a variety of

Dorsonallties and notivities w1ll bo handled by separato dimpetoh and

Sato reports.

A600h

Jonesh Se TITTAN

Attaohments

Herord th

2603,

2003,

wait wo

Exchuted tra astrut

CS COPY

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

NO FIZID DISTRIBUTION

Out -1

CLASSIFICARON

880151/ KAPOK

701-306052

DATE TYPED

DATE DISFITCHED

4 June 1965

CHAPPUCH STUDOR AND MUNDOR

0514-43,272

HEADQUARTERS FRLE NUMBER

20 4 306052

---

## Page 53

14-00000

!!

Thief,

rationg

Attachment to 0EI$-4,3,272

4 June 1365

S/1 was not successful in lining up any

arrangement in the U.S.

Around 28 May he received word

ron lew York of a flat surn down on his offer to serve as

Labor mea

en thompete got einston and

plans to attend

himself. Locally,

was able to line up the following sponsors (though none

In a position to pay much for his services they collectively

provide him with sufficient reason for being in

will let on that his travel costs were advanced him by his

wealthy brother-in-law):

During the last two months,

S/1 has explained his income

o his wite as coming Iron advances.

expense coney and

This has not pleased her, as she dislike.

at least satisfied her curiosity.

To explain Katzenbach'g

telephone calls to his home (K. Identified hinsolf to S/1's

wife soar as

s/1 had to improvise a purely

notional affiliation with an American

This will help

explain sone of his ince to his wife, but will not be used

with otherg.

2. The above skeletall

I will hopefully be reinforced in

where S/l will seour around for bits and pieces of work

for his many contacts there.

His visits to

on his way to

will also help to fill out his ostensible

gources of income, though S/l has agreed not to overplay this

angle.

In other words, he will not pretend that these two have

given

him any funds, but 1f others want to make the assumption,

so much the better.

3.

On 1 and 2 June,

Tiffany expounded at some length on the

importance of S/1 trying to get anl

such

ag

the

or establishment of an

While we could easily set him up in this enterprise, we f hot

rest to for the sinole reason that this would at best only

frovide him with a superficial sort of access.

what we want

him to strive for 1s

that will lead him

Into one of the nerve

centers of the

(5/1 ruled out

on the

grounds that his wife 1g

S/l accepted this reasoning

and agreed to go for a position that holds out the prospect of

1n depth.

ES COPY

LOUCH J-RITY VISITIC

LiO FIZLO DISIRIEUTICU

@H71t0GELA-43272

201-306052

---

## Page 54

14-00000

La Junover to Rodigast, Astor getting S/1'8 unhesttating agreement

to an ICrIUlIa exarinatios and his simature on a Secrecy Agreemant

on 2 June, MIffary Introduced him to Rodigast, under the alias

on the morning of 3 June. It was explained that Rodigast

wouid serve as S/ point of contact in the future. S/1 and Rodigast

hit 1t aff noll fros the outset, the laiteris knowledge of

and other Intellectuals serving hin

has laid

"ll in the rapport-building process. Rodigast fizboby on firm

mosttg arrangements for

and has discussed arrangements for

meeting s/1 at least twice during the sunner outside

Final

patters

agreement on a uid July meeting will be nade in

to conform to a norsal

by S/1 and

to arrangenents which S/t succeeds in developing In

In tio process of discussing co munications Rodigast 1s also

Imparting Instruction In goed security practices on the part of S/1.

Rodisast will Instruct S/d in the

Roperally,

Rodigast will be able to spend a day or two with S/ in

even

though we want S/1 to ge: tol

as soon as possible.

5e Financial Arrangements. After discussing all possible alternatives,

"It was decided that the most secure arrangenent rould be to give SA

an advance of the equivalent of $200 for his-travel

and per dien and his an advance of the equivalent of

$600 for his Inne salary plus nor accountable expenses. These advances

were nade and signed for on 3 June. One r Important reason for

the large cash advance was the fact that s/t trematax was completely

broke, and he had to pale some funds avallab la to his wife to seet.

expenses and pay off a 65

debt to his brother-In-latif befare

Leaving on his trip. (5/1 111l explain the funds as the last of the

advances and paynents for

and other

"Ter essentially the sane reason (poverty) we agreed to make S/l's July

and August salary payments in advance (to be paid iato his

aceount on the firat of each month. He recognise that this procedure 1s

* *40

*.!

---

## Page 55

sonewhat irregular, but ve wont ahead with It principally on the grounds

that this was necessary to head off the security and morale problems

posed by an trato w1fe.

6. In the course of his Initial talk with S/1, Rodigant pursued the

matter of the allegations sade at various tines in the past to the

effect that S/i is or vasà "CIl agent" or "FBI agent». S/a explained

- the altuation as lollows:

---

## Page 56

sama lorof moor daio de dentino Timida dos dei

• їх

---

## Page 57

14-00000-

Bre@asiaoitenpecan.iagacidtseiku.ne@mei@.ec@2.00mi.iaai23n

---

## Page 58

14-0000d

8. 7os future contacts, R-digast gave S/1 "an altad I an using:

---=

the possibility of energency contact

baing optional. Rodigast will also look into

(the latter 18 preferred by S/1), which Rodigast

by

during the surer

a day or two after

believes will be

anyway they arrive in

-could

- for example.

Aler Rodget :

Rufug

• Rodigast

prayeh. s. T.

Joseph S. Tiffar

CS COPY

• POUCE SECURITY FIOLATION

HO FIST DISTEREUHIOT

---

## Page 59

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATEN

SECRET DURAT

PRO

POSED

PROCESSING

ACTION

•MARKED FOR EIDERING

LESSED

Chief of Stations

FROM

ABSTRACT

Chiof of Station,

DURECT

YKUDESK/ORPREY

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENICES

REF®

A

B

DIR

7991

15660

1 Forwarded under separate cover

as Attaohment 1

1o the original Lotter of Agreement aigned by

71 on 3 June.

2 forvarded with thie dispatoh in a santized version of thin contraote

2. Attachment 3 forwarded under separate cover

& Secrecy Agreement signed by

V1 on 2 June.

10

Attachment 4 forwarded undereparate cover

PRQ Fart I, filled out by L

Vi on 2 June.

It should be noted that

due to limitation of time this wao prepared in great hasto.

Attachment 5 is the top half of the signature speoinen ansigning

The botton half of this document in forwarded

a pseudonyn to

as Attaohment 6 under separate cover

Son. Titler

IS Tiffany

Attaobnests 1,3,4,8. 6 (usc)

Attaohments 2 d 5 Herewith

Detriautions

Chief, Ws wo att

2008,

w/o att

2-Ch1e1,

AF w/att 2 h/& 4 (050)

2- Chief, KUDESK w/att 1,

3, 4 & 6 (USC) & 2 & 5 k/u

2 Chiol, KUNCLE To att

varatic

NT: 56-185 838

Sectazailication

escort

"CROSS mEn

DRENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET-RYBAT

DATE TYPED

A Juno 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AMD NUMBER

081 Am43, 237

HEADQUARTERS FILE MLABER

201306052

DATE DISPATCHED

wings?

---

## Page 60

UFkA 49g. 1, 4 June 1965

SECRET

LETTER OF AGREEMENT

Dearl

The United States Governaent, as represented by the Contrasting

Offloer, Hereby contracts vith you for the purchase of cartain information

and related services of s confidential nature under the following orms and

conditiones

la Compensation. In full coneideration for the purchase of

wuch Information and services, you will be paid an amount caloulated at the

reto of 8500.00 per mont.

Paymento w1ll be made in s secure manner accepta

Ble to you. No taros will bo withhold fron this amount. Isorows A mutually

agreed portion will be withhold in an escron ascount for you for reasors of

meourity ae soon an thie becomes a practical possibility.

2e TraveL.

You will be advanced or reimbursed funde for

necessary expenses incurred in connection with such operational travel au

may be directed or authorized by the U. S. Government.

Tou will be required

to account for such expenses in a manner consistent with good security.

Since security conditions generally preclude the detailed accounting of

minoellaneous travel expenses, per dien will be paid at the rate of $20 per

day during periods of authorived travel.

* Operational arpenses.

You wiil recieve $100.00 per month

or need operation exer moment to basie

tional expenses inourred beyond the amount munt be peoifically authorised

by U. S. Governent.

4o The U. S. Covernment will compensate you in an amount

mutually agreed upon for the reloation of you and your lanily to a new

renidence if suoh a relocation in considered desirable by you and the U. s.

Governght.

5. The Organization, in recognition of a oles moral obligation

will undertake to protect you against any adverse actions related to your

aotivities and associations entered into at the request of the U. S.

You will be required to keep forever sooret thie

contraot and all information which you may obtain by reason hereo! (unless

released in writing by U. S. Government fron such obligation), with Pull

knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal

prosecution under applicable laws and regulations.

7. No promises or commitmenta pertaining to rights, privileges,

agree

This contraot 1o effeotive as of 1 June 1965 and

mhall continue thereafter for three monthe (to 1 September 1965). Extension

to two years (to 1 June 1967) will be contingent upon the granting of full

operational clearance and your performance during the sumer 1965 assignment

land noons acquired during that period. Furthermore, it

That on or before 1 September 1965 1$ will be possible

to renegotiate the terns of compensation of this

contraot for the period following that date,

That siter 1 September 1965 thie contract (and ite

extension) can be terminated by either party with 30

dayu notice.

ormination of this arreerent it not release you from ti

alicationg of any security outh borect Agreement you bave aimed

United States Government

---

## Page 61

TOs

1ef of Station,

Attachment I0. 2 80 08LA-43,237

8 June 1965

LETTER. 03 AGREEDET

Dear Mi.

Tra inflag Statog foramions, an torrasanted by the contracting

Officer, Hereby contracto viti you for the purchase of castair irforeation

end related services of a confidential nature under tsa foiloring bIns ard

conditions:

1.

Possensation. In full consideration for the prchase ol

such information and services, you will be faid an amourt calculated at tie

ra$o of $500.00 per month.

Parents sill be nade in a secura canner acceyta.

ble to you.

No tazas will be withhold fron this aucat.

S00r018 A satually

agreed portion vili

be wishhold in an escron account for you 10r reasors o!

security as soon as this becones a practical possibility.

2. Travel. You sill be advanced or reinbursed funds for

necessary expenses incurred in sonnection rich sues operationa: trave. as

may be directed or authorized by the t. S. Governaeni.

to account-for such exgenses in a rarrao consistent sita good security.

Since security conditions generally preclude the detailed accountire of

niscellaneois tratal expenses, jer dies vili be fald et the rate of 320 ger

day during periods of authorized travel.

Greration»: Satenses.

You will resieve $100.00 Jes month

l'or necessary operazional expenses on a nor-accountable basis.

Any OpEran

tional experses incurred bajond tie anount mist be specifically authorized

- by V. S. Governeant.

4.

The F. S. Governent will coupensate you in as anount

mutually agreed upon

for the -alocation of you and your family to a new

residence il such a reincation is considered desirable by you and the U. s.

Governgant.

The Organization, in recognition o a clear zoral obligation

-..will urdertake to protect you gainst any adverse actions related to your

activitias ani associations entered into at tre request o the j. S.

Goverresht during the sern of "cis agreesent.

Secrec".

You will be required to keep forever secret this

contract and all incornation wich you say obtein by reason tereos (unless

released in vriting by J. S. Governient froz such obiigation), with full

inorledge that violation of such secracy say subject you to crisinal

prosecution under syplicable laus and regulations.

fo pronises or cornitents vertaining to righis, privileges,

ment or any anenient nereto stall be binding on Ice C. S. Government

agree

8.

Iris contraot is effectiva as a° 1 June 1965 and

mhall continue theresiter fo= *hrae months (to 1 Septezber 1965). Eatension

..to two yeera (to 1 june 1967) vill be contingent upon the grantias o° full.:

and ascess acquired during that period. Furthermore, it

That on or before 1 September 1955 it will be poesible

to renegotiate the terme of compensation

of this

contract for the pariod folloving that date;

That after 1 Sorterber 1965 this contract land 1%8

extension) can be terinated by either party with 30

daja notice.

Perination of this agreeren: vill no% release you son the

ebligacions of try security osts (Secresy igreezent) you heve signed.

United States Coveragent

ACCELTED: 3 June 1905

Is/L

---

## Page 62

0844-43,237, 4 June 1365

15 fores

SECRET

SECFECY AGRESVEST

understand that upon entering on duty

I an undertaking a position of trust th the Organization responsible for

Intelligence relating to the security of our country. I understand that in

the course of this association I will acquire intorration about the Organizatior

and its activities and acout intelligence acquired or produced by the

Organization®

2. I have read and understard the provisiong of the espionage lase of our

goverrment ard I am avare that unauthorized disclosure of classified informati.

relating to the national defense may subject ne to prosecution for violation

lairs, nether such disclosure be made unile I am associated with the

Organizatio.

or at any tire therealter.

3. In adition, normier, as I am undertaking a position of trust, I have a

responsibility

urganization not to jisclose

any classified information

relating to the Organization without uroper authorization.

I untertake,

therefore, rot to discuss with or disclose to ary person not authorized

hear it fro information relating to the Orgarization, its activities, or to

. intelligence raterial under the control of the (rganization. I further

understand that this inertaking is a condition of m. association with the

Organization, tnat its siolation may sutject ve to irmediate lisnissal for

cause or to other appropriate usciolinary action.

any that this undertaking

ahat be ecually binding upon me alter my association with tre Organization

I understard that the burder. is upon me to ascertain whether or not

infornation is classified and if so, who is authorized to receive it, and,

therefore, I will o-tain the decision of autiorized oi'icials of the Organizazi r

on these points prior to disclosing information relating to the Organization,

and failure to obtain such a decision will be grounds for my dismissat»

I understand that my unauthorized action er verbal or written utterance

which would reasonably je expected to result in jublicity on intelligence

or intelligence activities would be in violation of government and Organization

regulations and would be grounds for my dismissal.

I understand that there are establisted procedures within the Organization

ermitting appear at all times o1 any legitimate criticisn, grievance, or

souplaint and that to carry any such grievance or complaint which 1 may have

outside the Organization will be considered a violation of the undertaling set

forth above in paragraph 3.

l. I further understard and agree that my association with the Organization

is conditiosed upon ny undarstanding of and strict compliance with the Organiza-

ton security requirements.

I will not undertake to publish or participate in the publication of any

information or material relating to the Orgarization,

Its actintles, or

intelligence activities generally, either during or after the term of my

association ith the Organization without specific prior approval by the

Crganization®

SECRET

---

## Page 63

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 64

1d-0d0d

SECRET

- 2-

9. I agree that all inforiation or intellirence acquired by me in connection

with my official duties siti: the Organization ramains the property of our

upon icrand by an appropriate official of

to such inionation and intelligence in my jossession.

10. I take the obligations set forth above freely, without any mental

reservation or purpose of evasion.

IN WITNESS CHEOF, I have set my hand and seal this Zonel

day os June 1965

_(SEAL)

- Witness!

Approved:

Date

SECRET

---

## Page 65

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIORNAIRE

FURT I - BIOGRAPHICAL, INFORMATION

Instrictions

.l.:Write clearly.

2,

Ansver all questions completely.

not apply, trite "not applicable (question does

Attach blank pages 1f additional space is needed.

Ceca

---

## Page 66

14-00000

---

## Page 67

14-00000

---

## Page 68

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 69

400000

---

## Page 70

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 71

14.00001

W ":

2eopatpre

oret.

---

## Page 72

4171095

dide adorate de do?

TO:

€s00 KOD

FROl&

Chief of Stationd

Attaokment N. 5 10 01LA-43,237

4 June 1965

Signature Specimen

2 June 1965

In she future I will use the following pseudony and signature.

pay ta ta!

TO:

Chief, KUDESK

FROMS

Chiof of Stationa

Attachnent No. 6 (USC)

to

0514-43, 231, 4 June 1965

Mendit

---

## Page 73

IBIdor.

2y may'os (rWaoh.)

Re:

Mi Bufil gien

---

## Page 74

77

DISPATCH

INFO

FIROUE

Chief, WE

Chief, KUDESKS AFg FBIL

chief of Station,

KUDESK

ORFREY

Report on

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PRO

POSED

Chief of Stations,

VA Q

PROCESSING

МАРКС ВСД INDXING

NO ASCENTS REQUIRED

ONLY OURGETIED

MEADOLANTERS DESA

CAN ACCE MOCHISE

ABSTRACT

ANCOOFT #

FLISMED

requent for information on a continuing basis relating tol

Distributions

Chief,

z Chief,

2 Chief,

2 Chief,

2 Chief,

2-cos,

2 C03,

EROS 1

Escleded fran antanatie

dowstaling and

sectassitication

WE

KUDESK

AF

FE -

IS REFERENCE TO

AS COPY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

George E. lArzaNA

DATE TYPED

201-306052

DATE DISPATC ED

9 JUN 1965

2 June 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

0EL. A 43, 235

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMEER

201-306052

---

## Page 75

• BRAMEN D

DESTROY

ELISSISTED MESSAGE

34

SECRET

FiES

TOTAL

COPIES

REPRODUCT SON PROMI

ACTBOR

ADVANCE COPY

C/WE3

INFO

BE COPY

FILE VR, ADDP, C/CI

1534. Г

SECRET 0216512

PRIORITY DIR INFO

2 JUN 65 m 8 1 357

CITEL

KA POK

LUDE SX ORPREY

20

ON 1 JUNE KATZENBACH INTRODUCED TIFFANY TO

11 (s/1)•

ON 2 JUNE S/1 FILLED OUT PRQ PART ONE, SIGNED SECRECY AGREEMENT

AND PSEUDO CARD, AGREED SIGN TWO YEAR CONTRACT 3 JUNE ON FOLLOWING

TERMS:

A• COMPENSATION: FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS SALARY PLUS ONE

HUNDRED NON ACCOUNTABLE EXPENSE ALLOWANCE PER MONTH•

B. TRAVEL COST PLOS AUTHORIZED MISCELLANEOUS OPS EXPENSES.

C. TERMINATION: TERM FIXED 1 JUNE THROUGH 31 AUGUST AT

END OF WHICH IT POSSIBLE RENEGOTIATE SALARY IN LINE WITH S/I

PERFORMANCE AND DEGREE ACCESS HE HAS ACHIEVED FOR LONG TERM

ALSO ON 1

SEPT THIRTY DAY CANCELLATION CLAUSE BECOMES OPERATIVE•

DO KUBARK AGREES PAY COST RESETTLEMENT S/1 FAMILY AT END

SUPER TOUR IF THIS REQUIRED BY S/1 JOB LOCATION•

QUESTION OF HOLDING PART S/1 COMPENSATION IN ESCROW

TA: BE DECIDED 3 JUNE. DUE OBLIGATION FAMILY MAINTENANCE, HOWEVER,

IT UNLIKELY LARGE PORTION

WITHHELD DURING NEXT THREE MONTHS •

APSIRACT

Set: 306052

---

## Page 76

SECRET

IN 81357 PAGE Z

2• SINCE THIS CONTRACT IN LINE WITH TIFFANY TALKS WITH AF

DIV PRIOR DEPARTURE HOS, VILL ASSUME APPROVAL UNLESS NOTIFIED

OTHERWISE AND PRESENT CONTRACT FOR S/I SIGNATURE 1000 HOURS 3

JUNE • INMEDIATELY AFTER WILL INTRODUCE RODIGAST. S/1 PASSED

EQUIV 100 DOLLARS SIGNING BONUS.

3. TENTATIVE IT INERARY FOR S/I IS DEPART

ONE DAY TO VISIT

AND OR

TO

8 JUNE SPEND

BY

RAIL 9 JUNE; TO

BY RAIL LATE 11 JUNE; TO

BY AIR

16 JUNE AND ON TO

_BY RAIL 17 OR 18 JUNE.

4• WE BELIEVE S/1 HAS ADEQUATE COVER FOR

SUMMER,

DETAILS BY POUCH.

5. ON BASIS TALKS WITH

THAT HE TAKE

TO

TO USE TOGETHER WITH S FOR

1 JUNE S/1 SUGGESTED

(OSTENSIBLY SUPPLIED BY BROTHER IN LAW>

FOR

TIFFANY GAVE

TENTATIVE TURNDOWN THIS IDEA, SINCE IT HIGHLY IMPLAUSIBLE

IN S/1 POSITION WOULD SPEND TIME

FOR

POSSIBLE (NOT CERTAIN) NOMINAL PAYTS BY

HOWEVER, THIS

GIMMICK MIGHT BE USEFUL TO GET S/1 ACCESS FOR PRIVATE TALKS VITH

TARGET PEREALITIES. LEAVE TO AND HOS DISCRETION WHETHER

KNEI

---

## Page 77

d=x.

TO U HORIZE

SECPET

IN 81357 PHGE 3

FOR S/1 WHICH RODIGAST COULD PROCURE

AND TURN OVER S/1

13-16 JUNE.

6 FORWARDING PRA ONE AND SECRECY AGREEMENT. WITH THIS AND

S/1 AGREEMENT LCFL UTTER TRUST HOS CAN EXPEDITE APPROPRIATE

SECUR IT Y CLEARANCE S/1•

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

3 JUN SE

---

## Page 78

14-00000

fice

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3

SECRET

PERSON/LET NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

23

REPRODUCT 0: PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

09 2

T. FIL; EE 4, WE 6, C1/OA, CL,

# I ME

→ =1/0P5,

S

E CRET 271783Z

DIR INFO

CITE

7989

FJDUST LOFLUTTER KUDESK

REF DIR 13891

* DUE HIS NATIONALITY, WE DO NOT NEED

OKAY

TO FLUTTER

11. HOWEVER, OUR GENERAL POLICY IS NOT

TO FLUTTER HERE ANYONE WHO LIKELY REACT AND RAISE FUSS

CAUSING SERIOUS POLITICAL EMBARRASSMENT FOR US OR

BECAUSE OF POINTS IN HIS HISTORY AND PERSONALITY, WE HAVE

REASON TO DOUBT

PI WILL COTTON TO FLUTTER, AND PREFER

DEFER DECISION UNTIL TIFFANY BRIEFED AND HAS TALKED TO

Y1. MAY THEN

DECIDE, IF FLUTTER IN ORDER, CONDUCT IN

EUROPE WHILE HE. EN ROUTE

pol

27 May 65 N 7 7 375

---

## Page 79

DISPATCH

QASUFICATION

BECEET

PROCESSING ACHON

MARKED FOR INDENIO

#0

FROM

Chief of Station,

Chief of station,

Chief, M

NO INDEXING #EQUINED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ALCIOFILAS

SUNSET!

- Traneittal of Interview Tapes

ЗС.:ON ™*#<-##ЄС

References:

A.

B.

C.

3904 (IN 75497)

Oral - 42,706

ORIA - 12, 410

I. Forwarded herewith as Enolosure are the tapes of KATZENBACH'S

Intervlews of _

/ requested in Reference A. Hopefully, thia

package will reach

in time for background use by Rodigast.

2. After Rodigast 1s finished with the tapes, please save one

reel or send it back to Headquarters for retention, and destroy

the other three.

STEVART F.

HO

MC

1

w/att

w/0 att

SMS REPERENCE TO

1- RI

..1 - CI/ICG

1 - WE/BC/U

201-306052

DESPAIN STABOL AND DIER

OBLE - 22753 E0EA;

CIAIFICATION

DATE

26 May

NOS FILE NUMBER

1965

BICBET

901-306052

OFFICE

CI/ICG

ORIGINATING

OFFICER

TYPIST

A. Goodrich

dab

COORDINATING

OFACE SYMBOL

DAVE

OFFICER'S MAGE

WE/BC/U

EXI.

5928

ABSTRACT

OF#ICE SYMBOL

DCNE (ĐC)

DATE

FORM 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

I DISPATCH

---

## Page 80

14-00000

DISPATCH

10

Chief, FE Atta: Chief, TE

SuFa

Chief of Stationg

Pacing

Chief of Station,

CRAISFICATICN

SECPET

PROCESSING ACTION

BABIED FOR OKADIG

MILE CLIFTO PETE

CAN RIDGE MCDOUG

4814

List

ACTOR REQUIRED - REFERICES

Reference: 05LA-43,113 of 13 Say 1965

Action: Please provide copy of subject liste

Fe note

as provided by

Station's comment that the only copy of the

has been

sent to Headouarters- le 2ne

not clear whether the

Jist was for the

only, or for all

Headquarters® forwarding a list of

Is possible, we should appreciate

1n

.."'

Distribution:

i 2 - Chief,

FE

3 - Grief. TE

2 - COS,

RENCE 1O

201-306052

MAY 21-1965

OFPA -

SECRET

79535

DarE

21 May 1905

N0OS FILE RICHER

---

## Page 81

DISPATCH

CLANSFICATICA

SIGRRT

POSED

10

ПОРО

Cher or station

_Shot. 15

Shiel 08 8181107

PROCESSING

ACTION

HARKED PO MUCING

GILY QUALIFIED

RELADQLAITERS DESI

CAN ROSE INDEXA

ABSTRACT

ПОСПОРИЛИ

ACCOM

PUSHED

MAJECT

ACTION REQUISED - REFCRENCEN

Rеfь ОГРА 79410, з Мну 1965

ORPRET

Station no able to mie saly & incle oopy of the 11=t,

andy due to its bulk and the length of time required to copy 1t, me

have not setained a cort. to doubt that the entire liat, ilos runs to

would be useful tol

at you so do go to a en gal with?

supply an extraot of name to

Metributions

2003,

Schlot,

21271

Spalise! ton said

201-306052

DATE TYPER

DATE DISPATCHIS

14 MAY 1955

IS COPY -

REFERENCE 70

SRCDET

---

## Page 82

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIEs

2T

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

PERSON/UNIT

NOTIFIED

# Ou

.. DETON

ADVANCE COPY

file

T a ng

WES

Done Doorres Dreeer

inve

M. PIL, AF 6, CA 3, 40/04, FE 6, 01, 01/ePS, SpIe 3 F, FIleT 2

MinE C P E T 1217112

DIR INFO

CITE|

7628

12 HAr 65 IN 6558 1

KUDE SK

HAVE INFORMALLY ADVISED US OF NEW PEPORT THAT RUMORS

HAVE RECENTLY PEVIVED SAYING THAT

1 IS CONNECTED WITH A

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.*

EQUEST FOR ELABOPATION,

NDICATION OF AREA IN WHICH RUMOR CICULATING, ETC., MET WITH

• COMMENT THAT

UNABLE TO SAY ANY MODE AT PRESENT, AND

CANNOT "YET" LET US HAVE THIS COMMENT IN WRITING. WILL PURSUE

AND ADVISE ANY DEVELOPMENTS.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

---

## Page 83

DISPATCH

GASSEICATION

PRO

POSED

TO

Chio!, NE

no Chief,

KUDESK, Chief,

AF$

FEy Chief,

Chief of Station.

hit i sation

PROCISSING

ACTION

WARNED FOR ENLANIANA

DO MOENISES BEQUIRES

PEA"MITERS DESH

CAS REGE FIDENIMA

AASTRACT

• I CHOFE

SUBACT

Chief. of Station

KUDESK

ORFREY

for

ACTION REQLINED. REFERENCES

K1

1.

During a rocent nootingl

Vi callod my attention to the

book

as 1t happened,

of date and far tron objeotive

He commented that

al thorch out

2o I mubrouently not a copy of the book. and find 11 unerul. l

FISHLO

11

3o For Headquarters consideration then, the following muggustions

4o This 10 juat a sufgestion, but we'd like to know what you think of Ite

George

Distributions

2Ch10r,

KUDaSK

2 Chief,

AF

2 Chief,

2.0h101,

2 COS,

2 cos,

2:21

Encerter tres antratic

it Pouch

CROSS RELANCE TO

CS COPY

GLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DETE TYPIED

DATE DESPATCHED

I1 3 MAY 1965

11 May 1965

DESPATCH STINCE. APED RAGER

054-43, 110

MEADQUARTERS FILE PELMIGER

201- 306052

---

## Page 84

14-00000

1 ту

CLASSEY TO FUL NO

HREE TO FLE NO

BELE RID

DESTROY

D

NET, 80 BRANCE

LASSIFIED NESSAGE

3130 SECRET

PERSON/LNIT NOTIFIED

AEVANCE

C....

MR. FILE A F2, CA/0Z

00$008

TOTAL COPIES

761-366052°

B600.

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

+yp3971 10000

10437)

SECRET 111100Z

INFO DIR

CITE

5878

OR PREY

7141(1-46013)

RE PARA & REF. SOURCE IN

•Ri. = IS STILL HERE, ON PAYROLL OF

ALINZUGH NOT

ZOL -CING. CASE OFFICER SAYS SOURCE CAN PROVIDE SPECIFIC INFO

P SEUSCT IF RiESIRED.

Y: CR

E T

CEN

SAYS

AF 11

AN 30

ASSISANE

SECKET

201-306052

3 1314.02

198 1 389

RI COPY

RI COPY

(33)

---

## Page 85

cd-idonor

.@4asp.stiptdrsdatdltnsidaing@aabrayyiasassrpeedsstzsatit.00.zgng

412. 4715

2ois. I res D ю

CLASSISY TO FYE NO

#-REB TO FALR NO

FHE RD.

BET TO MRANCH D

DESTIOY !

701-306657

WASSIFIED LE

SECRET

PERSON/UHIT NOTIFIID

.TOTAS COP18S

D eP+

REPRODUCT ION PRONIBITED

ACTTON

sOVANCE eoY

UNIT

InFO

WE 84/IC z

M.PIL BDDP, AFlO, FEL, CAOX, CAZ, ClI Cefecz, CJOPs, CCS3,

I Ce/OR , CAlPeOR

ECRE

031855Z

DIR INFO

P

CITE

3756

"3 HaY 65 IN57 528

KUDESK

QRPREY

R

C

FEFS A DIR 04341

B

1341 {55353)

C DIR 98974

lo RE PARA 2 REF A, RODIGASI (RD NOST INIERESTED THIS ASSIGNIENT.

HE AVAILABLE FOR JUNE I INTRODUCTORY MEETING

WILL PCUCH

SHORTLY OUR THOLGHTS FE COVER ACCOMMODATION, ADDRESS, ETC.

MEANWHILE

AND R AGREE WITH REF B PARA 4 POING CONCERNING

SI-R MEETING

ALTERNATIVELY SUGGESI CONSIDER

TO WHICH R CAN COVER AS TRIP TO

_TRAVEL

WHICH CONGREGATES THERE.

ALSO-

MAY 296:

A POSSIBILITY®

3• NAS PRECIS' TAPE DEBRIEFING MENTIONED REF C BEEN FORWARDED?

FLEASE CABLE DISPAICH NUMBER•

4o NO INDEX.

SECRET

Tạ D :1

SECRET

CFN

1-d4 1389

ĐHENOUS

+000900306$

RI COPY

HEat peFaaia m á.

AF/LlIA

ABSTRICS

201-306052

RI COPY

(391

---

## Page 86

14-00000

DISP

AASSINCADOM

SECRET

TO

Cheta

C 1 2 1021010/ 04103,

FB, Chiet of

chiet of station

NYLL

LUDEST QRPREY

Recorde on

ACTION REQUIRED - PSFERDICE

Separate cover attralmente to

, th1m diapatol ares

PROCESSING

ACTICOPI

HAIDOD FOR IRDCXING

NO ANDORING REQUIRED

CHILY QUALIFIED

SEADQUANTERS DESH

CAR NOW INDELING

AASTRACT

PLISHED

Attnehmente 1

Diutributions

1B w/stt 1, 2 & 3 080

2 Chiof, KUDBSK /stt 1 & 3 USC

2 Chi01, AP "/att 1 & 3 USC

2 Chiol, TE watt 1 & 3 0sC

2 008g

7w/att 1 & 3 USC

# O1os

J/att 1 & 3 0B0

* сОв,

/att 1 & 3 USC

1821

Embreed tras argerfic

trasgrating aid

rechastientlas

IL S7C TITID BY BI/AL.

peter

3 MAIUS

I CROSS REFERENCE TO

ICACr

iped

La CaPY

CLASUIFICATION

BICLET

2:01-306052

306052

201-1a8t65

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

27 AiR 19678 APR 055

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

011 43,000

HEADQUATTERS FILE POLIMABER

204 306052

rata.

---

## Page 87

14-00000

swer 44,292.34 an an

fres

SEGRET

TOs

Now Ches, OUtation, I

Ittachment No. 1 to 0RA-45,00

27 April 1965

SECREI

---

## Page 88

14-00000

FROX:

rates os stasion, l

Ittacheent 50- 3 80 0514-43,000

27 ADF12 1965

it.

312T

---

## Page 89

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 90

14-00000

5 5÷0097

SEORET

201-306052

---

## Page 91

4-00000

Chief, WE

Foxe Cales of ste od 5

Attaohment 1o. ? to

0844-43,00O, Z1 ApTIi 1965

io..

---

## Page 92

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 93

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 94

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 95

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 96

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 97

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 98

46'

ORIG

UNIT • C1/ICG

C - 1176

DATE: 22 April 1965

MESSAGE PORM

SECREI

LE NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS-FARO.

AF

A STRACT

SUTING

5

$

?3 Ea55 2s 19=

FROM DIRECTOR

cons, Cil162

CA/PEE

AFG, FEL, EL DOR, DO/M3, FIlINTa

1O

R

KUDESK,

REF:

ORPREY

UR fILE

04341

TOGEHNDI 7141 (IN 46013)

! 1. ON BASIS KATZENBACH (K) DEBRIEFING

11 BELIEVE S/1

KNOWLEDGEABILITY CONTACTS IN AREA WHERE CURRENT KUBARK ACCESS

THIN SUFFICIENT WARRANT OPS FOLLOW THROUGH. STILL BELIEVE THAT

DURING PERIOD MID JUNE TO MID AUGUST OFFERS BEST TESTING GROUND FOR

- PROBATIONRY ASSIGNMENT AND POSSIBILITIES FOR S/1 DEVELOP

FOR EVENTUAL LONG RANGE

AND

2: FORL

DESIRE RODIGAST (R) HANDLE S/1 DURING LATTERS VISIT

PROBABLY

AND AFTERWARDS, IE-S/71

WOULD HOPE THAT

DURING PROBATIONRY PERIOD PARA 1 ABOVE, & COULD USE

FOR SOME TRIPS

THIS SUPPLEMENTED

WITH S/1 VISIT

AND

SHOULD INSURE CLOSE AND

EFFECTIVE MONITORING S/1 CONTACTS, INFO AND DEVELOPMENT JOB PROSPECTS

IN TARGET AREA. BELIEVE R CONTACT COULD BE KEPT ON SECURE ALIAS

BASIS EVEN IN

ALONG LINES

OP, PLEASE ADVISE CONCURRENCE.

20/- 306052

LABINE OFFICER

COORDINATINE OFFICI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THEN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No

in inner

---

## Page 99

1d-0d0d

jONG

UNT, GIGG

EXT

,1176

DATE , 22 April 1965

10 .

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

3

6

• INDEX

I NO NOEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

DIRECTOR

CONF

TO

NO

CITE DIE

AND

* AVAILABILITY R FOR INTRODUCTION ATL

04348

MEETING WITH S/1 FIRST WEEK

JUNE. IF AGREE ABOVE, SUGGEST ALSO DEVELOP

AND TELEPHONEL

_FOR S71 CONTACT R IN FUTURE.

3. UPON RECEIPT POSITIVE RESPONSE FROM R, REQUEST K MEET S/1

AND EXPLAIN FOLLOWING:

# --A. ODYOKE INTERESTED AND GRATEFUL HIS COOPERATION AND

HOPEFUL RELATIONSHIP CAN MATURE.

B. AS EARNEST OUR CONTINUED INTEREST WE EXTENDING ONE

HUNDRED DOLLAR WEEKLY RETAINER ADDITIONAL FOUR WEEKS. IN

ANTICIPATION OF POSSIBLE CONTINUED RELATIONSHIP, HOWEVER, WE

CANNOT KEY SUCH PAYT TO SPECIFIC NEEDS SUCH AS KIDS TUITION.

THIS PAYT CAN BE MADE IN LUMP SUM ADVANCE.

PRETEND K WILL BE ABSENT

UNTIL LATE MAY.

D. PRESENT THINKING IS THAT MID JUNE TO MID AUGUST PERIOD

WITH

AND

LEASING OFFIE°

PLUS PERHAPS ALSO

AND

COULD OFFER VALUABLE AND APPROPRAUIE OPPORTUNITS

- COOPINATING OFFIGERS

SECRET

AUTHENTICATINE

OFFICER

RODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHINITEO

• Coor Na

---

## Page 100

ORIG

1x6 • 1176

DATE, 22 April 1965

1O

moM. DiRECTOR

CONF

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

5

C INDEX

BE NO INDEX

D RUE IN CS FILE NO.

INTO •

TO

• • INFO.

CITE DIR

04341

FOR S/1 CLARIFY HIS REPORTING VALUE TO ODYOKE AND HOPEFULLY

• DEVELOP LONG RANGE ASSOCIATION OF INTEREST TO US.

E. AS PRELIMINARY STEP WE WANT HIM USE NEXT MONTH TO LINE UP

VIABLE

VISIT

THIS PERIOD. IN ADDITION ANY NOTIONAL OR

REAL HELP FROM BROTHER IN LAW,S/1100 SHOULD TRY LINE UP FIRM

AGREEMENTS WITH ONE OR MORE

FOR

EVENTS,

WITH

MIGHT FACILITATE, (SEE PARAS 5 - 7 FOR GUDANCE ON REF

QUERIES. )

F. EXPRESS CURRENT INTENTION TO LINE UP DEFINITIVE MEETING

. WITH K COLLEAGUE 27 MAY TO HANDLE FURTHER ARRANGEMENTS.

ARRANGE FOR S/1 CONTACT & 24 or 25 MAY FOR FIRM MEETING INSTRUC

TIONS. FYI KUDESK STAFFER JOSEPH S TIFFANY PLANS TDYL

26

MAY FOR SHAKE DOWN OPS TALKS WITH S/1 PRIOR TURNING OVER TO R

EARLY JUNE. THIS STEP CONSIDERED DESIRABLE IN ORDER SCREEN OUT

K AND

FROM OPS FOLLOW THROUGH.

BIG OFFICIA

COONDINATING OFFICES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

"Cary No

---

## Page 101

ORIG

UNTY CI/ICG

ExT 1176

DATE, 22 April 1965

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

5

6

LI INDE

IS NO INDEE

I JUE IN CS FILE NO

3

DIRECTOR

CONT

NO

TO

INFO,

BELIEVE NOW USEFUL BRIEF

CITE DIR

04341

OUR INTENTION DEVELOPING

OPS RELATIONSHIP S/1. WE SHALL FORWARD SUMMARY ALL S/1 DEBRIEFING

SHORTLY MOST OF WHICH CAN BE PASSED. IN VIEW POSSIBILITY S/I WORKING

WAY INTO

TRUST

WILL

REQUEST

MONTH

TRUST IT WILL BE POSSIBLE

EITHER TIFFANY OR RODIGAST

ADVISE IF THIS ASSUMPTION INCORRECT.

5. RE PARA 1 REF PROPOSAL, SUGGEST K DISCUSS WITH_

POSSIBILITY. HOWEVER BELIEVE SECOND S/1 TRIE

LOOK SUSPICIOUS NOT LEAST TO

TO THEM. PLEASE

_AS FUTURE

AT THIS TIME WOULD

AND S/1 WIFE. MEANWHILE,

IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR S/1 TO ATTEMPT

FROM

COOBDITATINE

• SECRET

AUTHENTICATINE

REPRODUCTION BY ..

HER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PESHIBITED.

Copy Ne

---

## Page 102

ORIG

UNT . CI/ICG

EX!

• 1176

DATE • 22 Apri

• 1965

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

15

O INDEE

DENO INDEE

[J FILE IN CS TILL NO

FROM

DIRECtOR

CONF

INFO

INFO

CITE DIR

14341

6. RE PARA 2 REF PROPOSAL S/1 SHOULD SHOP THIS AROUND AS AN IDEA

BUT SHOULD NOT START ANYTHING YET AS EVERYONE KNOWS THAT EVEN MODEST

EFFORT THIS TYPE IN

REQUIRES START CAPITAL OF WHICH

S/1 CANNOT CURRENTLY EXPLAIN SOURCE.

?. RE PARA 3 REF, S/1

HOS

8. PLEASE TA PAYT PARA 3 B ABOVE TO

IACEOUNINUMBER

THeS

AF-/cors

AF BIF

AF/1|

DC/WE/BC

CA/CF

CA/PROP

CA/3

CO/10

(in draft)

(in draft)

(by pbone)

(by phone)

WE/INT

#ELEASING OFFICE®

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

Lucindad tol

grading

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

19/97/90

OFFICEN

Copy No

---

## Page 103

1. 2:13

SECRET

I4 Apr1l 1965

MENDRANDOR FOR:

JRON

SUBJECT

See Distribution •

CA/cr; CI/ICE

Areas of Knowledgeability A reading of the transcription of

taped debriefing clearly underlines KATZEKBACH'& assesament

that|

I possesses an encyclopedie knowledge of personalities and

Groups ranging from

It is not always clear fro

the debriefing to what extentl

JenJoys either & first hand know

Jedge or even a friendly relationship vith specific individuals or

втоцрв•

What la clear is that I

moves in & milleu on which we

presently have very little coverage; that he 1s already a member of

this loosely defined society and thus can be premmed capable of de

veloping new contacts or strengthening old ones by means of present

taid past associations.

It 1a diffiealt to categorize or devine what this milieu 10.

It Is not the world of

on although it contains a pre-

ponderance of communists; and it does not seen to be a society which

necessarily revolves about the

The primary commn denoming.

tor covering mont of the personalities involved in

reporting

In some association with the

Ja partl-

cularly l

I A secondary neans of characterizing these contacts 18

• correlation with the l

which l1es out

side such organized

as the

(His main

ассевв to

Jand

with whom be claims to be on good terms at

the present time.) Another coumon thread, almost as general, 1s asso

elation vitt

although the meaning or clarification of thin

political description is never spelled out. In general,l

displays

& good and often personal knowledge of target areas which iight be

grouped as follows:

он. , "айонвар сатя, па

SECRET

-......

---

## Page 104

SECRET

•2 .

circulated a

JIB a CIA EEED"; In dealing with th1e

(This 1s reflected In

Its 201 as anting from his days vith the be own beller that be le stlll

question, however, KATZRACE cites [

able to operate in the eircles which would be of interest to us. It 10,

of course, difficult to tell tron his debriefing the extent and serious

ness of this charge against

_insofar as 1t affecte his bona fides.

it does seem that in

Julieu, gontip, personal attacks, muddled

loyalties and an sure of conspiratorial confusion are everyday facts of

Iife and that personal contact and effectiveness in bullding rapport

would far outweigh such critical personal charges - which, indeed, pro

bably cirenlate about nost people. At the present time, for reasons not

entirely clear,

feel that he would be envelcome and restricted

were be to visit

Jand, In fact, would not like to make such &

trip. He has indicated, on the other band, that he has friends ial

Jand believes he could probably get some kind of Job there or at

Least find a receptive and generally friendly reception. He also appears

to bave some contact and standing with the

gince

he clains their I

Joffered him employment. It is not known

to what extent he might be able to parley such a contact Into employment

1n

Jor some forn of official association in Europe, altbough

these questions could be explored further.

The termination of his asso.

ciation with

Ivould not, according to his account of

It, discredit him in the eyes of those who might have been partisans of

the ideological tine wich this

account

16 not in good stending vith the

purveyed. According to his

or even tbe

and that his

quarrel withl

over

paid salary is vell known. While this may not be unblased, 1t 18

apparently true that he has lodged a claim for payment against

and thus 1s not in the position of having been expelled zon

for ideologienl deviation. As

]recounts 1t, 1t 181

not he,

no 15 discredited.

3. Motivation and Readiness to Cooperate. The debriefing reflecte

between the lines what KAIZENBACH Judges In his covering dispatch to be

a rendiness to collect Information for us lnowing that ve are an official

aganey and probably suspecting that ve are KUBARK. His professed moti-

vation is monetary, and frankly no, although a certain degree of fatige

this pest protein of ideologe punditi seer able

There

are also a mmber of indications that

would like to rehabilitat

himmle lest be be forced to make his living for an Indefinite period of

time in an envirorment that be finds both upleasant and materially un-

rewarding. It is not possible, of course, to make an intelligent Judge

ment sran this debrieting on the firmess and consistency with which be

SECRET

---

## Page 105

SECRET

• 3=

udght undertake continuing assigments for us, but this is not an

musual area of uncertainty with a new agent and one which a probe..

tionary period should dispel. (It should be noted that in one instance,

he volunteered a name as an operational lead - 1.f., as someone whom we

night find it worthwhile to look up. He also provided what 1e apparently

Long-Range Usefulnesa and Initial Targetting•

renge usefulness, of course, would depend not only on his effectiveness

and dependability, but on the opportunities which will emerge and take

shape as a result of his initial activity. As a general proposition, he

enn be viewed as an intelligence collection asset tergetted at

Specifically, these targets would include:

In the short range, & current assignment for us ahould meet the follor

ing criteria:

8. Lend itself to probationary exploitation;

SECRET

(523E)

---

## Page 106

td-iedon

SECRET

The best I1kely assignment to fulfill these requiremento 18 that of a

capable of credible travel

1n

with some associations which will pre-

Assuming the devel

opment of adequate cover, he could then spend an initial period this

spring and summer In

(29 June) and the L

1(28 July).

Hay,

CAR-

not be anticipated as targets at present estber because of indefinita,

planning or because of unsuitable location. There 1s little doubt, bor

ever, that additional neetings vill take place 1nl

might attempt to report on.) In addition to his contalbu

tion in coverage of these meetingo be sight also attempt to develop his

access and contact among the

at Least with

the value of developing biographical and operational support data.

5• Proposed for Discussion.

The following questions seen to pre

sent themselves for discussion at this time:

decision on the continuation of support to

0a &

probationary period;

determination on targetting for initial probationary and

possible long-range employment;

Co mechantes of establishing a project;

do tinstable for assignmente.

CA/ Cr

Attachments:

17065 (re tentative cover arrangements)

Partial List of nanes eited In

debriefing

Selections fron the Initial processing of |

debrieting

Distribution:

2 - A/1

CO/KO

CA/B3

CA/ PEG

WE/DIT

ME/BC/U

CI/ ICC

• CA/CT

SECRET

---

## Page 107

LALF SO FILE NO.

DESTROY

30C-

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

15 SECRET

PIRSOMILNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

36

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ACTION

ADVANCE COPT

UN ET

R

WES

InFo

(848r780

POBED

m. FIlE, C1, CHloes, Celecz, CAa, CAlat, AF6, Osa, ADDR,

FL, FlINTZ, FE6

C

R

C

O

R

ECRET 121250Z

V 2л 15m43053

DIR INFO

CITE

7065

KUDESK

ORPREY

REF DIR 98974

V1 (S), STILL UNEMPLOYED, IS PLEASED WITH PROSPECT-

OF ACTIVE SUMMER INI

WHILE WE REPEATED WE NOT READY MAKE

ANY COMMITHENT BEYOND CURRENT MONTH'S RETAINER, HE NOW MAKING

PLANS TO CONTACT POTENTIAL SPONSORS FOR PROLONGED VISIT

BEST BET MAY BE CONTACT WITH

RPT

WHO NOW IN

WAS

SECRETARY TO

WHO RUNS

RPT

DUE

COME

SOON ON TRIP.

HAS ALREADY

SUGGESTED

GETTING

RPT

CONTACT S, AND S WILL INVESTIGATE POSSIBILITIES

POINTED OUT THAT

SEVERAL SMALL OSTENSIBLE BACKERS COULD EACH BE PAYING S, IN

ABSENCE ONE LARGE AND WELL-KNOWN OUTFIT. S WILL BEGIN SERIOUS

CANVASS POSSIBILITIES, KEEP

INFORMED, AND WILL NOT COMMIT

SELF WITHOUT OUR OKAY. S EVENTUAL MOVE TO

NICELY COVERED

JE MORE PEOPLE AVARE DE HIS GRONING DISSATISFACTION PRESENT STATUS ARIS

2.

DISSEMING (ZRWAHOO) TWO ITEMS FROM MEETING. HOS

SECRET

201-3060052

Ide 1389

RI COPY

RI COPY

133!

---

## Page 108

14-00000

:

a cons

..))

RiD/tils

43053 PALOZ

ADVISE WHAT SYSTEM YOU WISH FOLLOVED IdUF TURE 10MMSUCH ITEMS.

SUGGEST ANY FOREIGN DISSEA CHANCE PADA PH ADVISE ALSO ON PASSING

SUGGEST WE PASS AT OWN DISCRETION, ADVISING HQS IN

EACH CASE.

3. OF POSSIBLE INTEREST, S MENTIONED THAT

RECENTLY ARRIVED

FROY

DID NOT

KNOW HE COMING, UNTIL HE SENT TELEGRAM FROM

SAYING HE

ARRIVING SOON. S AMAZED AT

ABILITY TRAVEL SO DISCREETLY,

ESPECIALLY SINCE HE DID NOT APPEAR HAVE PASSPORT•

A DID NOT DISCUSS DIR 88977 QUESTION, BUT S NOTED

NOM IN NEW YORK. HOS MAY WISH REFINE QUESTIONS ON BASIS FORMER

DEBRIEFINGS, OR WE CAN INCLUDE IN NEXT MEET. PLS ADVISI.

• So S FINANCIAL CONDITION DIRE. NEEDS 150

FOR KIDS®

TUITION® CURRENTLY LIVING OFF WIFE'S SHALL SALARY, BUT STILL

HAVE TO PAY RENT AND TUITION. S CLOTHES OBVIOUSLY VERY SHABBY,

HE SAID HE WEARING MIS LAST WHOLE PAIR OF PANIS. WILL NEED

BUY SOME CLOTHES BEFORE HE GOES ANYWHERE. MAY WE GIVE HIM 150

FOR KIDS TUITION IN ADDITION TO 400 DOLLARS AUTHORIZED?

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

---

## Page 109

UNT ICI/ICG

07: 5928

DATE: 5 April 1965

10

FROM DIRECTOR

CONG: CIlIC 2

MESSAGE FORM 34

(48/00S=C2==

3011

L FILE IN CS FILE NO

INFO

!

e, me, Wel, reb, CAz, CopRI

1F6

INFO,

AN SHEL

AF|1 |A

ABSTILL SEE DIKES!

18 38974

KUDESK

ORPREY

REE:

A. OELA 42750 (SENT HIOS ONLY)

B. OELA 42410 (NOT SENT ALGI)

SuBa

1: DSZT REF B (IDEN TO|

ASSIGNED CRYPTO

WE

PROCESSING SUMMARY REF DEBRIEFING TRANSCRIPTS WHICH WILL BE

POUCHED ADDEES MID APRIL. TENTATIVE APPRAISAL IS THAT S/1 OFFERS

PRIMARILY KUDESK KUTUBE POTENTIAL IN

AND

PERHAPS SERIES

THIS SUM-

MER BRANX BRINGING TOGETHER KEY TARGET FIGURES OFFERS BEST

OPPORTUNITY FOR S/1 DEVELOP NATURAL COVER AND GAIN NATURAL ACCESS

TO TARGET AREA.

PAND SELECTICI CASE OFFICER FOR FUTURE IGNOLIN C-

2. PENDING FINAL DECISION/REQUEST KATZENBACH CONTACT S/1, GIVE

HIM RETAINER FEE ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS PER WEEK FOR NEXT FOUR WEEK

TO INSURE HE DOES NOT TAKE ON FULL TIME JOB WHICH WOULD LIMIT OR

PRECLUDE FUTURE OPS ACTIVITIES, DURING THIS PERIOD K (OSTENSIBLY

ACTING ON BEHALF ODYOKE FRIEND WHO KEENLY INTERESTED IN INFO ON

201 - 306052

COOBDINATIRG OFFICE

OFFICER

SECRET

GROUP!

metached Baren

regrading

Awe immed the at

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICAT

Copy Air

---

## Page 110

14-00000

UNIT: CI/ICG

EXT , 5928

DATE :5 April 1965

10 :

HOM DIRECTOR

CONF

O INDEX

IS NO INDEN

DO PLE IN ES FILE NO.

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

An 421-

due 21 11 21100

INFO

INFO

TO PROVIDE COVER FOR ATTENDING

CITE DIR

SHOULD REQUEST S/1 SURVEY POSSIBILITIES JOES

(CAN S/1 DETERMINE EXACT DATES?),

AND

FOR

AND/OR IN CONJUNCTION WITli

EXAMPLE AS

PERHAPS LETTER TO OLD FRIEND

MIGHT HELP TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT

IN

_MIGHT ALSO FACILITATE S/1 REENTRY TARGET AREA.

3. WITHOUT MAKING ANY COMMITMENTS BEYOND THE RETAINER SUGGE: -

K PUT RELATIONSHIP WITH S/1 ON CLANDESTINE BASIS. SPECIFICALLY MEET

OUTSIDE

GET AWAY FROM NECESSITY K TELEPHONING S/I HIS HON:

AND PROVIDE S/1 WITH MEANS CONTACTING K FOR MEETING TO REPORT ON

ANY IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS.

REQUEST

UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

END OF MESSAGE

S/;

ristine

COONDIEATING OFFICERI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION &

ATHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS

OHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATI?.

OFFICER

---

## Page 111

0210

jUNT, CI/ICS

EXT < 5928

DATE 5 April 1965

TO

mOM DIRECTOR

CONF

MaDE

I& NO INDEX

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

2

3

INIO

TO

INO

CITE DE

DENNET

WE/BO

C0/100

AF/1

CA/CF

CA/PROP)

CA/3 W.

E/3/INT.

br phone)

(by phone)

(by phone)

_(by phone)

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIATEA

C/CI/ICG

OFFICEE

Copy No

---

## Page 112

14-00000

UNIT. o

DATE :

MESSAGE FORM 34

48 SEGRET

D INDEX

I NO INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTiNG

3

S8n53 13

2:.

FROM

DIRECTOR

TO

C1, CIlORs, Fo, FIlINTZ, AFl

RE DIR 95924

CITE DIR

98975

IDEN:

END OF MESSAGE

5 AFILIA

essa

201-306052

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

SECRET

: REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICA IS

OFFICEA

Cary Na

---

## Page 113

TO

BUFO

DISPATCH!

Chiefs V

CLASSITICATION

perS

POSED

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARRED FOR MDELIG

NO INDEXINE REQUIREL

OMY QUALIFIED

MEADQLAITERS DESE

CAN IUDGE MEDDLEN

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM

PLESIER

Chier of Station,

RIF

SECT

ACTION REQUERED - REFERENCEI

(201-306052), Memo of Understanding

Fransitted hererith are copies of a menerandun of under

standing signed by

on 23 February 1965.

The original 1s being

retained in the Station.

Tro reodigta sinned by

on 19 February and 23

Pobruary 1965, each in the

equivalent of 8200, were formerded

to Headquarters with

ITA 5190.

No suggest that these reoolpte be

obtained fros Finanoe and incorporated in

201 dossier.

George I.

Attachment:

Herewlth

Iatribation:

302101, 15 0/567 1/

Excited tom etzrate

daragrassy na

ES COPY

CROSS REFLADICE TO

ATT

CLASSIFICATION

BBCRIT

DATE TYPEN

201-306052

DATE DISPATCHED

25MAD.-•

25 March 1965

DISPATCH SYMDOL AND NUMBER

ADOUAATERS FILE NUME

201306052

---

## Page 114

salado?

Trom: Shep of Mation,

alacdonant +005218-417807

+ 353592641965

-...

I bereby acknowledge that " have voluntarily provided

Information to tao United Strtes Government, for which I

received compenaation.

I cave no further olain against the

United States Governent for this activity.

I further understand and agree that the entirety of

this relationship is confidential and that nothing relating

to 1t will be revealed by me to anyone.

Dato: 23 Flausay 1965

20269

ATTA IVO

CELA

42807

GS COPE

201-306052

---

## Page 115

14-00000

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEX

tanis.

DSFRIBUTION

ngton

1

Registry

CS COPY

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

201-306052

---

## Page 116

14-00000

SZORE) iu luadd bltscl

22? n

SEORET NE FOREICN DISSEN

---

## Page 117

SPATCH T

CLASSIFICATION

PRIORITY

STORET

BUBBEST

Thief, KE

Chiefe RuDESKe Chief, FEi, Cajor, AR

Chioth

Stations

PRAPOK

23 MAR 1965

PROCESSING

ACTION

MANTIS FOR INDENING

NO INDENING RIQUIRD

OALY GUALIFIED

MEA LARTERS DESA

CAN IUCCI INDEXING

§ ABSTRACT

#PICROF MI

ACTION REQUIRED • HEDFERENICEN

Refs OTTA 42,706

1. Ref forwarded the tapes and a rough transoription of the debriefing

session with Subjeot, which vere held on February 17, 19, 19, 23, 1965.

2.

In accordance with Feadquarters' instructions, these beetings

were kept on a don't-call-agso'11-eall-you basis- in laot

was eiven

no meane for calline us. Aleo in accoriance with ieadquartera' instruations,

did not payl

(9300) parment + at a constant Ite of over 1100 per hour.

The first

was in laot more than we had originally intended to

five his as a "bindor", but in light of the imminence of his trip to Arropo

w. advanced him that sun to belp hin to meet his expenses.

This nioely

oolnoided with our om time table, since the time he vas gone - some three

weeks - should have provided adequste tine for the initial tape to be

revieved and for requirements to be urspared and pouched to the fiold. At

any rato, the total

sun given to

for his tine and a shot at his

was $700.

30

may well feel that it has been done out of $700 in 00A

funde

The information obtained onl

1 of |

or on any

at all, vas

Iittle contsot

with

alight.

olains not to bave had nore than very

then, and not to knor t00 much about them. Unless there

1a hard into

to the

contrary, we are inclined to believe that l

was

telling pretty much

the truth in this respect, as indeed seems to have been

the oase alnost all of the time.

While this is a bit of a disappointment,

in a rays

and seems to lessen the immediaoy of

interosty 1t

oertainly does

not

appear to eliminate

potential

worth.

Station continues to feel that

potential as a source of positive inteiligence on a wide range of targete

targets that appoar to be only lightly covered otherwise, although we are

not alvays able to judge this. A revier of tbis debriefing can only cause

one a oertain amount of amazement at

encyolopedio knowledge of many,

many groups, personalities and

literally from

He loave It to Feadquarter, 03 00urB3 l ovalu

to evaluate

Diatribution:

chief,

2 chief,

2 chlot,

2Chiof,

WE

Enciates tre atsant

DATE TYPEL

DATE DESPATCHED

twagraing

202L-

FE

AF

1 CROSS REFDANCE TO

15 Marah 19651 8MAR :935

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OKLA- 42, 750

HEADOLIAWTERS FILE NUMIDER

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

TO FIELD DISTEIBUTION

CLASSIFICATIONI

PRIORITY

SECRET

---

## Page 118

14-00000

DISPATCA SINSON AND NOO

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

PRIORITY

8 &CR FT

05 A- 43,750

his material; to the

Station, borever, it appears to be not only

rather masaive but detailed as well.

He do not doubt that be will be

calgat out from tine to time on facts, and perhaps interpretationa as vell.

But the totality of his information and the whole perfornance was without

notes - is astonishing®

5.

Several points should be noted. Irst of alle a consolous effort

was sade to show!

that his commente on the

were not

boing made a matter of record. (I took notes during our talk,

and always

utopped making notes when such a topio came up.

This i8, as KULPA noted in

056V: 1903 of 12 February 1965, an ares of sensitivity with l

• The only

really becane enotional vere when he talked about the

his involvement, and the involverent of his close associates.

And he kept reverting to the topio, and his involveuent in it, throughout

our Conversations.

We did not obare I'LPA's impression that i

dissatisfaotion with the

in America makes bin

generally anti-American.

Se doss say that he would not Ilke to be living

in Amerios for the coming year; but in the context of one who does not wash

to be caught up in a period of growing violence, which

appears not to

the solution to the problem. Fe atatess

*I oan understand

how they feel that way, I can recognize the problems, but I sure don't inow

what the colution to the problem is." Ris judgments on

refleat not only ar

intimaoy with the problem and a genuine concern, but also a generally

reasonable and real understanding of many of the forces at work.

to condemn Individuals - he spares no synpathy for the FBI, under

standably - but he does not appear to condemn the United States as a hole,

nor even the United States Goverment as a whole. At the same time, be

Regarding Cuba,

showed a sinilar enotional involvement (he

acknowledges "ny pro Castro bias") but, withal, manages to five a more

balances portrayal of the situation than sany rabidly anti-Castro

commentatore.

and tuban matters, were also similarly low keyed by

really comes into his ow, and really astonishes with

the" breadth of his personal infornation and understanding, (and largely, 1t

without the sane personal involvement and bias) i8 in

affaira (especially in|

and thoir general niliou, and

Similarly he aprears to be informed on certain

*fforte at subversion and propaganda inI

B. Rather as 1I reading our thoughts, L

offered to recruit him

He didn't get too specifio, and neither did ve.

quite clear that he would be willing to collect information for us knowing

only that we vere ODiCk' probably susrecting that we were kabarky and

probably doually doubting (because he inous the difference that we were

His motivatione can be compiled from his own words. He has for

none time been unable to find a mitable job here in

He has economio

prossures vorking on him. now exacerbated by the faot that his rife has

Venal? Opportunistic? Or someone who has a wife and two kids

to support

and no job for the past eight monthe?

asinowledges that

he has become sorewhat bored with the "rero biology" of chasing petty

ideologioal differenoes, the kind that nake faotions of sir membere or less.

At the same time, he asinorledges that he has to have a job, and that hie :

socess to and Inowledge of these porons and groups arc maricetable

commodities.

His preference, he saya, would be to have a nice quiet

7j0b here, but bis efforta to find such a

Job have been fruitless

How, obvicist, oan one of his bacisground and

talents better esploy

He sayg that he would like

wot for thel Terhaps,

or an ODYCKE agency, but he is certain that he oould never got the requisite

security cleerance.

still, obviously, he suspecte that an

"Irregular" art

of ODiOt, such as we, night be able to work something out.

FORN

105 530

USE PREVICUS EDITION

REPLACES POEMS

PRIORITY

TRAGE NO

---

## Page 119

CONTINUATION OF

* DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION,

PRIORITY

SACRET

DISPATEM STATO NO NO

CLA -42,750

How about his ideologioal motivation? we had hoped for some

aore concrete expression

than we got,

on thie score, but what ve have

1a not too bad.

ries states that he will not be "intellectually dishonest",

to the joint of boosing a "professional anti-communist," by which be

means a propagandist.

At the same time, he agrees that be has no

desire to be a professionall

I Again we note that he 1s

not blindly or unduly oritical of ODYOKE.

Granted, he oriticizen many

elements of ODIOKS policy and tende to lefend some enenies of CD/CAT®

A failure for him to do so would be sufficiently remarkable to make

us totally suspicious of bin.

note further his commort that ho would

alvebeen parteoty villing to talk to un a jear age inl

Mane fascion as ba roe 2ost.

Thia would sound ratber suspicious and

liffloult to berieve, were it not for the faut that hi did show air-

self to be candid and cooperative in hiaL

interview with al

How badly. olcw is

then, 1f no are thirking of using

Alter all, he jas been publiely labelled a gIA agent."

then, work for jUDARs successfully?

_himself is certainly a better

Judge of that than thel

and we feel that thore are only

two indices that can be used to judge

Jown opinion, einod te has lived with the problem,

and has tested the idea in pictice.

Fe feele that he oould still

operate ("rove" iB his tern

in most of the cecirable arces succes

fully, provided ke has adequate cover for beine where be 19 ant dotag

what ho does.

The second inder would be for us to teat his continuing

access to targets of interest.

It should not take too lone to make

such a test rithout puttine anything into real jeopardy.

_of course, would be a serious problem.

hinself proposes the orricus answers

soue kind of vaguely

We should think that such cover could be arranged.

And we propose to disuoss a nurber of possibilities with headquarters

in due time.

[tilization and Iccale are most closely related, of course.

Prow our vantage point here, it would appear thatl

would be the

rost desirable home base for l

_ Fe could range out from thers into

maintain a reguler flow of infornation on

informatio best targete arrarenty and

affairs while "at

Fe has sporen several times of the ease with which he le integrated

environnent, and he has a fairly well established base

there fron wiich to exjard his operationg.

He has said that he would be

willing to go there, or l

or most any other place where his

children can continue their education in

for the foreseeable future,

as well as the site of a proving number; of

a worthwhile target in its own right,

meetings, for which L

credentials.

Twould appear to have excentionally fine

As he says, he could go elsewhere in

but

in where he would fit best. He would be inclined to keep him,

for the

cost part, away from the L

milieu (except, perhaps, incidentally) to

avoid straining hia roportorial objectivity.

In the

and

areas, ve suspeot that careful checking would

ensure such objectivity.

His utilization could beat be considered on a straight

I would be

not only repugnant to him but destruotive of his utility

• as well.

not only for

Prostmably he dould be peruitted to continue, but perhaps ocoasionally

his overt earfere !In a

for

Tof his own choosine,

In order to maintain his

on cover. (This is, admitted coula do an admirable and highly valuable

seeing rather far into the future.)

Tie do feel, however, thatl

collector of positive information on that whole speotrun of the

which he lo already so familiar.

FORM

10 37 53a

1233

USE PERIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMS

5: 19 5: :84 A::5 53 29

CLASSIFICATION

PRIORITY

PACE NO

1694-91911599

---

## Page 120

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

.. .

CASAIKAION

PRIORITY

SRCRET

D'SPATCH STOROL AD NO

074A-42,750

14•

15.

We should also like to comment on the rellability of

comments in the course of our meetings to date.

We have found him to

be thoroughly consistent in his commente and attitudes throughout.

We found no indication of deliberate deception or serioue attempte to

aislead.

He may have provided some erroneous materials, or he ray have

erroneously interpreted

some eventa; but his comments and attitudes

remained suffioiently consistont to lead us to believe that he vas

being reasonably honest all the way.

Fe played down some itens, no

doubt, and played up

others.

In the course of a debriefing suon as this

was there seened 114*1e

or no point in pushing hard at such points

tesides, his knowledge of the areas covered so far outdistanoed

mine

that I could not have attenpted to probe or pin him down on speoifice.

(Note also bis tendenoy to nake correctione in the debriefine questionnaire,

as when the: wrong name would appoar for a

16.

present status i8 that he lo out of work, in debt, and

without

any prospects of reasonable employment in the near future.

in sonerhat occupied with an I

wIll probably keep him frch taking another job for the next fow weeks.

Beyond that, nothing i definite.

If we would like to give him a try,

then, some move should be made to formalise matters with him before he

accepts sone job that will put him out of the merket.

17. Recognising that there are rinks involved, it nevertheless seeme

most undesirable to pase up what has the sarmarks of being a highly

therefore, that Headquarters revier and consider

the entirety of our knowledgo of l

_to thie point, and give us a

reading on bie potential worth, as viewed by

AF Diviziong

for reasons of which

KUDESK/ICG and other'interested partieß. li& considered unacoeptable

Feadquartera is avare, and we are n01, L

as & KUTUBE asset, let ua know. Il, on

the other hand, there appears to

be a market for his talents and capabilities, we should nove rather

rapidly to pre-empt him.. His present fleribility 1a not likely to last

for long, and any plan to use hin should taé this into account. As

Vr/BC is arIe, ve are not in a pusition to put this into the form of a

_Station projeot.

This should not be the reason for negleoting

wat appears to be such a potentially rewarding auset for KUBARK, borever.

tie would appreciate a reply within a couple of weeksof Read

quarters? receipt of this dispatob.

George H. KATZEBACH

FORA

105 530

rac:

USE PESTIOUS EDITIONA

REPLACES FORMS

31 2?

31 788 A,0 51 28

CUASSEKATION

PRIORITY

PAGE NO

---

## Page 121

DISPATCH

CLAISISIATIOPE

SECRET

PRO-

POSED

TO

DEFO

FROM

PROCESSING

ACTION

'MARISS SEA INDENING

INO MOCKING ASCORE __.

MEACQUARTERS DESM

CAN ACCE LADONING

ABSTEACT

3 MCRCEL

Chief of Station,

SUBJECT

KUDESK

ACTION REQUIRED - REFEHENCES

1. Tranenitted borewith are the tapes of the 17, 18, 19 and

23 February sessions with

Also transnitted la a copy of the

Station-prepared transoript of the tapes.

Too quality of the transoription

the firat session is mostly sumsrired,

the submeguent ones are

almost verbatin. Roberta lo HORREll did the transoripta, and I

subsequently reviered then, filling in commenta, nades, etc., that HORRBLI

had missed.

As rough as there transoripte are, a careful revier of them

1n fairly revealing about L

Tand about his knowledge of the toplos

Further coment fron this end will be contained in an

operational dispatoh.

Right now ve are antions to got the present material

into Beadquarters' hands for further froodssing.

This le about as far as

we oan take tho uatesial here, due to extrase tine limitations.

rotaining a oopy of the transcript, hovever, for further wee and future

reference.

bles

Tot

Coorge do KATYANBACH

Attaohuente

Herewith

K5P V

Eatend trans airsatie

Distribution:

2. 8 Chief, ME Matt kn

allackmend

дрі срісь

acmats

tacked

CS COPY

I CROSS PENANCE TO

Fatts.

801-306052

DATE TYPED

15 MAR

О НатоВ 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OELA 42,706

HEADGUARTENS FILE PINGER

20130605₴

SECRET

---

## Page 122

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 123

14-00000

---

## Page 124

14-00000

i ::

....

---

## Page 125

,",: :.

---

## Page 126

60000-

* x7.

"isare

---

## Page 127

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 128

REXE

FOURTH SESSION

- 23. Februnry 1965

(moraing)

.*..

---

## Page 129

escom..

14-00000

---

## Page 130

14-00000

---

## Page 131

"it in

---

## Page 132

11°, oon. =-sama-.

~.----=

---

## Page 133

14-00000

---

## Page 134

14-00000

anctens

i"ho o w?

---

## Page 135

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 136

Z Ciemiron '

Fanee

---

## Page 137

mtedat

S:

yoat.

---

## Page 138

14-00000

mmineie

wwsiy,is

20:376.

---

## Page 139

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 140

* jade fronted to bat on,

- SECOND SESSION

18 Febraary 1965

---

## Page 141

0000t1

---

## Page 142

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 143

14-00000

---

## Page 144

2200

---

## Page 145

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 146

1d-0d0d

le scnan..

Iliuie -

......

'?e:.

---

## Page 147

14-00000

---

## Page 148

** stalad

14-00000

---

## Page 149

14-00000

---

## Page 150

14-00000

---

## Page 151

i cited donates astataste. a

14-00000

---

## Page 152

14-00000

---

## Page 153

14-00000

---

## Page 154

14-00000

4. 1208

20 L

---

## Page 155

0000

---

## Page 156

14-00000

sarl

---

## Page 157

* de

---

## Page 158

14-0000

1: 759

fon!

---

## Page 159

• iay"""

aeteaiid i sleceeei madlr g

---

## Page 160

ttha

---

## Page 161

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 162

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 163

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 164

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 165

14-00000

---

## Page 166

14-00000

•siot

---

## Page 167

* .

o tais.

BOISSES CUTHI

----------------------

---

## Page 168

14-00000

= cean.

eetotiwn phwoi2

---

## Page 169

7T .

-....

coboee-?:

---

## Page 170

14-0000

---

## Page 171

14-00000

---

## Page 172

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 173

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 174

14-00000

---

## Page 175

14-00000

---

## Page 176

aaker-

1t 1.

C0000-21

---

## Page 177

14-00000

menitey

.t. den

---

## Page 178

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 179

14-00000

-DC-Y

---

## Page 180

746"

ente 000-1410208

14-00000

di a guida i

---

## Page 181

at fill

ndát

14-00000

---

## Page 182

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 183

1d-0d0d

---

## Page 184

LAFe)

Trete

P0:00-4

---

## Page 185

14-00000

!

Be 150

"-'.

---

## Page 186

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 187

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 188

UEX? :A

HETTO-

---

## Page 189

14-00000

---

## Page 190

inn.

C0bR-20

---

## Page 191

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 192

14-00000

3 Frin

---

## Page 193

14-00000

---

## Page 194

14-00000

so... 1

---

## Page 195

00000-21

---

## Page 196

iii.

-. .

---

## Page 197

jsitosad o

td-innod

---

## Page 198

33...

00000-b1

---

## Page 199

P0000-24

---

## Page 200

14-00600

---

## Page 201

119007Baтт 4.

14-00600

---

## Page 202

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 203

14-00000

---

## Page 204

14-00000

to rat

23501

---

## Page 205

t:w.s.tli.iriasitedan..antitihnauasntai.o.cmr

14-00000

---

## Page 206

14-00000

T.::

---

## Page 207

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 208

Г.

14-00000

---

## Page 209

14-00000

"= cihi3 5 x-70

---

## Page 210

14-00000

-0232r

---

## Page 211

14-00000

---

## Page 212

14-00000

-...

"praisinG:

!

---

## Page 213

Eie ww —Tt

an naau ..

sien di tusreo.

14-00000

---

## Page 214

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 215

14-00000

...

Di :

---

## Page 216

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 217

14-00000

7774

---

## Page 218

14-00000

ima "sayn:

...

15pte sds."

---

## Page 219

13m.!

---

## Page 220

14-00000

---

## Page 221

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 222

14-00000

---

## Page 223

14-00000

---

## Page 224

1d-0d0d

: .

---

## Page 225

iswi.

---

## Page 226

14-00000

---

## Page 227

14-00000

---

## Page 228

td-innod

...

''ser.a

iryahomy

iminipeneie

.:

isen micae ral oo lih

---

## Page 229

Timai.

wneeescaaaes "ya0y5

wasticawei@eesaiaasmcccieizudena

TV

---

## Page 230

14-00000

1

R--04

onG,

UNIT.

DAT -

10

FROM

CI/IC/G

R-1176

DIRECTOR

can. el/I6 z

* MESSAGE FORM 32

D INDE

LISECRET. -

D NO INDEE

Gibson's 201

KL

D DESTROY

I RETUEN TO BRANCI

ROUTING

P

NOWAL

AVO, PARI PALP

SIS CEi!

KUDESK

REPS:

A.

6396 *

B.

OELA 42604

$0655

c.

6360

1. APPRECIATE

LIST RECEIVED EQS 4 MARCH.

2. DO NOT WISH YOU ACKNOWLEDGE HAVING IT TO

FOR

TIME BEING.

3. REF C PARA 1: APPROVE YOUR PASSAGE SUMMARY OF TRANSCRIPT

YOUR DEBRIEFING OF

INCLUDING DETAILS ON

JAND HOW IT WORKS.

HOWEVER, DO NOT PASS INTELLIGENCE OF POTENTIAL

OPERATIONAL VALUE.

END OF MESSAGE

*

16552

14617

AF 1/A

ADSIRECT

201-306052

MELCABING OFFICER

CO/OPS

AF/CI

CA/3

GOORDINATINE OFFICERS

S

ECBET

KIPE ONE NOTHE

COY BAN"

(by phone)

---

## Page 231

Dais

CASEY TO ME NO SO/- 3010S ELASSIFIED MESSAGE

HIP TO ALE NO

FILE MID

DET

DESTROY

SaG

2. • SECRET

THSON/UNIT MOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

74

. *

A COPT

REPRODUCT ION PRONIBITED

• FE 8

ADVANCE COPY

1098060

Um IT

SECRET

SIR INFO

KuDESK

REF

DIR 659778

031139Z

CITE

6360

ABSTRACT

I INDEX

i: 3 HAR 65 m/1 46 1 7

C

P

Y

DEBRIEFING COMPLETED 23 FEB.

DEINS ROUGH;

TRAISCRIPT TAPES AND PREPARIG O'S DISPATCH, TO 3E POUCHES NEXT

FEW DAYS.

2.

WHILE REF GUSSTIONS NOT PUE TO G. HE DID MAKE CONNERIS

ON

WHICH IN TRANSCRIPI. NO MENTION OF

QUESTIONS CAN BE INCLUDES IN SUBSEQUENT NEET WITH

"CHEVER.

ASSUME ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS WILL DERIVE FROM MATERIAL NOY I

HAND -

SECRET

CEN #QUESTIOS FOR DEBEFIRE

201-366052

3 MAR: 65

1088 1 389

RI COPY

RI COPY

135}

---

## Page 232

14-00000

DISPATCH

TO

SUBJECT

1h22a1

Chief of Station,

Chiofa KUNOLEL ChieF, KUDESKE

Chief of stations

KUDESK/ MHORANN

ACTION REQUIRED • REFEREACCI

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PRO

BESED

PROCESSING

ACTION

MADED FOR EDEN,

HO ANDCLINE REQUIRED

DILT QUALIFIED

BADQUAITURS BETHE

CUE FIDGE INDEXINE

ABSTRACT

Transitted herewith is one copy of the oarde that

these were borrowed

Jurife...

land copied in the station.

who compiled the carde and van responsible for

land to whom, therefore, they more properly belong.

in not arre that l

has "loaned" the oards out.

wer» returned tol

the same day he brought then in

for copying.

Te have not made any attempt to count then.

There are

several thousand.

A few comments vill be in order about some of

the marks and notations that appear on the cards.

One general cate ory 10 "Promotional". The firat

bunch of sheets - about twenty, 1t appeare - are in this ontogory.

They are marked "Promotional" or "PR".

These were sent out gratia

either to induce publioity, or to encourage new

to make friende happy.

(Presumably,

Jand several

others are in this category.

4o Thereafter, the cards run in catogories of one sort

or anothere with elven countries renerally lumped togother.

Those

where the

are some of

thome that vure taken fron

Some are marked

which means that the name came Tom

the

and the person subsequently

Ton bie

or, after a little promotional treatment.

5°

The coded symbols,

unfortunately,

could not

piaing since this vas his mie's territory, rather than his ou

e first sot of lettere obviounly refere to the country (e.8.

Other mmbers and letters are not clear.

The name that appeara

apart from the name of the l

usually indioates who arranged

](this may be

Tor souething like & gift

For instance,

who handles

Escalad fia astria

dansgradisg 1sd

declassif caria

TAF

de

NESTES+

•ÇROSS REFERENCE TO

late.

CLASSEFICATION

SBCRET

DATE TYPED

GATE DISFAFCNED

25 Febe 65

2MAR"" =

DISPATCH SYRINGI, AND PRAAJER

201-

306052

051. A 2, 604.

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

FEREED

---

## Page 233

1200)

CONTINUATION OF

_* DISPATCH

CLASSATCATION

SECRET

051 43,004

"private"

dates are obvious.

merely means that soneone

himself, rather than through an agonoy.

6.

Any further questions relating to thel

inoduded in any subsequent contacte with

$I thay nerit

Inolusion, and 11 it veens Ilkely that le will know the answers.

To Te note that the

accuraoy oannot be guaranteed,

specially after the time when the

parted ways with

8o At sone $1ne, the

my ank an for thi

• rould approciate being advised as to wether headquarter

would like us to noknowledge having 16

KATZERACH

Attaohments

Hereri th

Distributions

Sochiot, IS v/att b/w

2-c0s,

w/o att

"chief, Kuront wo att

Chief, KUDBSK w/o att

2-Chios, FE s/o att

LASSIICATCA

ISE PREVIOUS EDITION

SPLACES ROLAN

31-28 51 28A AND 59 29

MICH ARE DESQUETE.

SBORBS

---

## Page 234

ORIG:

CI/ICC

EXT ,

¿DATE .

5928

_18 Feb 65

150 .

ArROn DIRECTOR

con. ex/Ic

TO Y

MESSAGE FORM 31

INDE

OR SECRET

D NO INDEE

ES ILE IN CS TIL NO. 201 - 306052

LOUNG

5

8

3

I DESTROY

D RETURN TO BRANCH

D FILE RID

422

Do , / 2, 1, 8, 20, 08, 015a 5, FiNT 2,

CITE DIR

86097

INFO

KUDESK

RE: A.

B.

6129 (IN 81502) +

DELN - 21869

J. IN ADDITION QUESTION THIRTY-SIX REF B, WE PRISARILY INTERESTED

IN DESCRIPTION

CURRENT CUBAN CONTACTS AS BASIS FOR FOLLCH UP

REQUIREMENTS.

SPECIFICALLY HAS & BEEN IN TOUCH RECENTLY WITH ANY

CUBAN OFFICIALS WHO SUPPLIED INFO ON CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION, STRUGGLE

BETWEEN CASTRO AND OLD COMMUNISTS, STABILITY OF CUBAN REGIME, OR CUBAN

SOVIET RELATIONS?

2 BELIEVE PROBING INTO HISTORY G RELATIONS WITH CUBA AND

SHOULD BE AVOIDED AT OUTSET SINCE THIS APPEARS

TO BE AREA WHERE HE MOST SENSITIVE ABOUT GIVING POTENTIALLY SELF

INCRIMINATING INFO AND FURTHERNORE OF MARGINAL VALUE.

END OF MESSAGE.

query re rants on

201-306052

Cuban contacts if any.

AFL

3 IN SA/ES

DCHE (BC)

COORDIWATING OFFICERS

MILEABING.

DEVIONE

Ri copy

REBRODUETION BY OTHER THAN

THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

C/WE/BC/U

AUTHENTICATINS

(3.91

Copy ram

C

C

---

## Page 235

1176

CASS TO IlNO-201 - 30605%

& REE TO FRE NO

FILE ROD. 2

от. е Серусн Др.,

DESTROY D

FROM

TOTAL COPIES

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

15: SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFILO

ACTION

1068

ADVANCE COPY

JISSUED

]SLOTTEO TUSCO

TWO VR, FILE,

FER, Fl, ADDR, DDP,

18 FER :,

copy

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

17

18

TIME

Y

SECRET 161247Z

DIR CITE

6129

istes : 8 1503

KUDESK

REF DIR 84695

DELW 21369

NOTE NO RQMIS ON

CUBAN CONTACIS INCLUDED REFS. IS

THIS OVERSIGHI, OR IS THERE RIASON FOR NOI FOLLOWING THIS LINZ?

PLS ADVISE, INCLUDING RONIS IF ARI•

SECRET

R.

Y

• :

R

AS SRIET

ASSIEEC

тол 1 389

SECRET

RILCOPY T

201-306052

RI COPY

1751

---

## Page 236

0000

---

## Page 237

14-00000

DISPATCH

S-ECRET

Chief of Station,

Attention: KATZENBACH

INTO

Chief of Station

Chief,

Chief HE

SUBJECT

DEBRATINE DE

ACTION RIQUIRED. REFERENCES

RE: OBIA - 42, 410, 26 January 1965

PROCESSiMO ACTION

WARNED FOR BEI

ONLY QUALIID DESE

CAN NOC BOXES

ARICROFILE

On 11 February KUBARK Staff Agent Errol 8. KULPA, who had

contact ulth

1n 1363-64, listened to reference tape and made

the following comments, which may be helpful to Katzenbach.

felt that the

that he was bearing on the tape had indeed

changed rather radically since the last time KULPA had any contact

and probably (because of this

(orientation) anti-U.S.

1s therefore quite suspicious of

motivations and advises

that extreme precaution be taken in the handling of|

?. LULPâ'8 view of

motivations:

KULPA has strenuous doubts as to any idealogical motivation

Be recognizes the obvious monetary

motivation and feels that this probably plays a large part

in the man's being willing to talk to ODYOKE.

possible notivatioz 15l

Another very

_ disaffection with L

Parenthetically, KULPA added that 1n l

Jand probably in

was really nothing more than a name that

wanted on the masthead.

prinary duties as

were probably in the area of translation.

In light of this

KULPA feels that perhaps some legitimate information of valie

can be obtained in the area of the

Again, paren-

theticall) ridelistic" as his wife.

it might be noted that TULPA felt that

was not 85

night adhere

to the aspects of Marxisy-Leninism that called for revolutionary

change (probably because of his dissatisfaction with a world

1n whích the

bad to endure a certain amount of

I he is not a strict doctrinaire in any of

his beliefs.

On the other hand, KULPA pointed out that

wife who by the way is a

1s idealistic in the sense that she feels her

brand oil

consistent.

must be internally and idealogically

This is why she objected tol

Jand why she probably would get upset if she

knew exactly what type of gane her husband was currently

playing with ODYOKE.)

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE...

CROSS REFERENCE TO

VS GORK

DISPATON SYMBOL, AND NUMBER

DRIE

1 5 FEB 1965

CEL! - 21903

CLASSIFICATIGAI

$22 February 1965

10s PIn1-306052

it cos 52343

201 - 306052

ORIGINATIIG

y7091

ROUD IN AT

2681308052)

AF.1

FIRE ME CHICO SES

-- CA/3

17: 00/0

-- HE/BC/Chrone

CI/ICG

EXT.

15928

COORD:NAT!'+G

DATE

IFFICEF'S NAST

AFA

12 Feb

65

(in draft)

CA/3

12 Feb

65

_ (by phone)

R10!2I

12

Feb

65

(by phone)

HE/BC/U

" hi

DESTROY

CoFRE 5•15

DATE

DCHE (BC) 1744.

SORH

1.da

53

USE PREMOUS ESIT.OR

NICDATEU

351 4 41

?.""

---

## Page 238

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CADUNTICATION

SECIT

DISPATCA SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OHL - 21903

3. We aro currently having reference tape transcribed and

"1ll forward the transcription to the field as soon as 1t 18

completed.

And fu N

O."."E"

"'''it's mush jie.

8o 59c

140)

BER FRATIOUS tOrTION

SECRET

conTinues

PAGE NC

2

---

## Page 239

DET

* CI/ICG

5928

12 Feb 85

TO

IRRA DIRECTOR

MESSAGE SORE 33

'IS-E-CR-E-T •

D INDE

D NO DOD

L$S FILE IN CS FLE NO. 201 - 306052

INFO:

L DESTROY

• RETURN TO BRANCH

DI FILE RO

ROUTING

1272563 11

122

PARI, PALP

CITE DO

84695

KUDESK.

RE: A. OELY 21369

: 5 FEB AM

Bo OELA 42410

FOLLORING SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIRENENTS MAINLY DERIVED FROM REF B

TAPE, FOR USE RATZENBACH DEBRIEFING

(G) :

1. G SPEARS ABOUT

CONTACTS WITH

_AND FACT THAT $75,000 WAS FUNDED TO HIM THROUGH TELE

WOULD BE INTERESTED IN G'S DETAILED

COMMENTS ON THE PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF

IRADERSHIP, TIES WITHL

TIES WITH ERSTWHILE L

OPPOSITION, TIES TO

SOURCE OF FUNDS, HOT MUCH SENT TO

_ IN FORM OF RENITTANCES.

2. ENCOURAGE & TO TELI. SORE ABOUT HIS WIFE, HIS WIFE'S

mastere

CONNECTIONS WITEL

AND LATTER'S FIFE, HER POLITICI

IDEAS AND ANTECEDENTS.

3.

HAS DEBTS ANOUNTING TO MORE THAN $30,000"•

CAN & GIVE US A BREAKDOHN, ESTIMATE?

201-306052

AF ILlA CONTINURD NEXT PACE...

v

*s6 1389e

ERST A

RI FOR

ERRORUSTOL aY OTHER THAN THEISUING CAICE IS PROMIANO

1111818911

---

## Page 240

iflerito

Ribridis

FOUTINC

6

LANT, CI/ICG

ĐT • 5928

DATE: 12 Feb 65

10 :

FrOM

DIRECTOR

2

3

BRING AMO. 201= 2060531 AN 0

INTO:

INFO

- PAGE TUO -

INO,

CITE DIR

84695

WOULD BE USEFUL TO HAVE & TALK ABOUT HIS CONTACTS

WITH

IN GREATER DETAIL. WHAT

FAVORS DID HE DO FOR L

AND VICE-VERSA.

S. ANT INFORMATION ON ORGANIZATION, PERSONALITIES AND

ACTIYITIES OF

ANY INDICATIOS

TIS

INVOLVED IN

6. INTORMATION ON RELATIONS OF_

WIFE WITH

7. INTORNATION ON

HOW WERE

STAFFS CHOSEN? WHAT ARB THSIR FUNCTIONS, OVERT AND COVERT?

END OF MESSAGE.

CA/B3 -

CO/10 -

11/1 -

(by phone)

(by phone)

(in draft)

1B (BC)

COORDILETIRE OVFIEENI

SINO OFFICER

SacraP !

SuE-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cary Ne

---

## Page 241

14-00000

P

Y..

not Dr

CLASSES TO FRE NO

I-III DO PLE NO

39

TOTAL COS, IS

18Т TO BRANCH O]

FRON

10r 184/14

COSSIPIED LESSIGE

-: SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIES

Too Spoor

REPRODUCTION PROMISITED

15

ACTION

115.8

THEO

ADVANCE COPY

8186€

i8

By

ECRET

DIR INFO

KUDESK

REF

14F0 63 17 3844

04/1802Z

CITE

5957

47599:7

5867(0713484

ABSTRAC

STATE (SHAME-FACEDLY) THEY NOW LEARN

DEPARTED

25 JAN FOR

2. OBVIATES NEED FOR

IMMEDIATE PASSAGE FUNDS PER REF, BUT

WOULD STILL LIKE NOW STATUS

RELATIONSHIP PRIOR 15

FEB.

SECRET

CFN

RR

# CLARIFICATION INSRUCTIONS GIVEN

101-3080527

: 20080

R

C

# 201-306052

yFeb65

Ked 1389

RI COPIES

RI COPY

(ISI

---

## Page 242

14-00000

PROCESSING ACTION

DISPATCH

SI-CHET

MARKED FOR UNDEXING

Chief of Station.

INFa

NO INDELINE IQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief, WE

AUCROFILA

JUNET KUDESK

1o0r1e101

TION REQUIRED - REFERENC

Hast 494696

Ref:

Ork - 42,410, 26 January 1965

Forwarded as enclosure are requirements for the debriefing of

Together with the requirements is a KUDESE narrative on

for the background information

of Katzenbach.

Further background on

can be found, 1f

you have not already done so, in the following dispatches:

OKLA - 39,346, 26 Sept '63

ORIN - 20,852,

16 Dec

'63

CELA - 40,208,

24 Feb

'64

OELA - 40,542,

15 Apr

' 64

Or - 41,545, 10 Sept '64

Olde - 30,251, 24 Sept '64

We have not yet had time to review the tape of your first

session with Subject forwarded with Reference, nor do we expect to

get a transcription completed in time to reach you by ls February.

The list of sanes attached to Reference indicate considerable knor

ledgeability on the part of Subject as vell a tendency to pour out

his knowledge 10 a sort of strean of consciousness style.

that, It given the opportunity, Subject will take the bit in his

teeth and as mich money as he can in his hot little hands and be

To prevent this ve would like to suggest that the

debriefing be set up on a tightly organized, businesslike basis.

would probably ba advisable to rite up the teres in a letter of

Agreenent contract for Subjoct's signature before getting started,

mking sure to include a paragraph in which ODYOKE's obligations

and pronises are limited to the terms specifically enumerated in the

We think that any maningful debriefing will take 3 - 5

days, and there is good reason to believe that Subject will have

*Information of sufficient interest to Justify this expenditure of

Case Officer time.

We do not foresee any long range operational

reltionship with Subject.

While we looi at the debriefing as

basically a cne shot proposition there will probably be follow up

questions and, perhaps, specific action requests, requiring & later

Therefore,

the communication 'channel to Subject should be

left open on a "don"t call us, ve'll call you" basis.

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE. -*

CROSS ПЕРЕЕНСЕ ТО

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OF. - 11869

CLASSFICATION

DATE

201-

3 February 1965

NOS FILE MEMBER

SECRET

201 - 306,052

1 - KT 1(01-106052)

I= C/COO w/encl

WE BE

RID/YE?

OFFICE

C/WE/BC/U

EXt.

17220

COOEDINATING

IT/*

OFFICE SYMBOL

CI/ICG

C/CO/10

DATE

OFFICER'S NAANE

4 Fob 65 Coord andrart f

7/3105

BN/15

C/CA/3

314/4165

RELEAS CO T

OFFICE STARBOL

DCWE (BC)

DATE

5 tel: 601

640)

FORM 53 USE PRIVIOUSIDITION E

DISPATCH

---

## Page 243

Г

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPATCH SYNDO! AND NUMBER

ORIN - 21869

3.

In line with the need to put the debriefing on a businesslike

it might be a good idea to start

(rather mE Subject to supple personal history statement from the

time of his first entry into l

present day. (This can be presented to Subject as & basis for un

not as any sort of personal

"confession" on his part.)

check on his veracity,

this will set the

stage for & debriefing

conducted on KUBARK's terms, not Subject's.

It is important that

it be mde clear to Subject

at the outset that we want facts, not

spoculation, commentary and analysts.

" Please charge paymenta to Sublect for the debriefing to

Acct. Nr. 5137 - 1468 (Egs.

Three hundred dollars

for the initial 21 hours talk with Subject is on the steep side.

Ve wre thinking in terms of $700 for five days debriefing with a

bonus for a copy of the

SOME STEPPANY

23665

1

L6!:.11.22

S9a

UNH. PREVIOUE KOTON

HASBIFICATION

8SCLLT

PAGE NA

CONTINUES

---

## Page 244

I-000oo

SECRET /MCFCRN

201-306052

---

## Page 245

14-00000

SECRET /rOFCRI

BECRET/TOPORN

- око о ме і ra

fre ded ir

*8:359)

---

## Page 246

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 247

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 248

ie sar

---

## Page 249

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 250

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 251

14-00000

ie iiain cdis

iis me

'''ri?.

i+s'

''tre.

---

## Page 252

1015t No 2=1-306-054

•ASSIFIED MESSAGE

24

1980 me to

FILE MID

DESTROY D

F# 0al

ACTION

INto

SECRET

PERSON/LNIT BATIFIED

YOTAl COPIEs

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

UN IT

WE-S

series

MR. rIlE, AddP, CI, C=/OPS, CA/Q-4, CH-2, FE-6, F4, CI/IC-2

TSECRET OWTIAZ

INFO DIR L

FI

R

P

Y

53 STRACT

INDE

1F865167 1348

KUDESK

RECUEST CLARIFICATIO! INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN

RE PASSAJE

HONEY TO

_AS DISCUSSED ITH

25 JAN.

2.

BELIEVES

HAS NOT YET DEPARTED

FOR EUROPEA

TRIP AND. HOLD-UP MAY SE DUE TO!-RECEIPT 103

FROM

IF FOT INCONSISTENT YOUP LATEST INFO FROM

AND ULESS

HOS OSJECTS SUGGEST

CONTACT

AND AUTHORIZE PASSASE

FUNDS YOU RATHER THAN AS STATED DIR 72596.

SECRET

CFN

C

201-306052

I Feb 65.

MEANS Did

2 FE3 105

1-d8 1389

a RI COPY

RI COPY

1358

---

## Page 253

14-00000

DISPATCH

TO

Chiets VB

Chief, RVa.Ps

Ckiof. IE1 SCS,

Chiot •* Station,

SAUBUEC

J102555

report on

ACNON REQUIRED . MEFDRDICES

Chief,

KUDESKY

Chip5,

REF6 0574-42,410, 26 JamIaTy 1965

CLASSIFICATION

SECHET

NSSEI

Chief, FBs

Chief. Af

1 cOS.

PROCESSING

ACTION

MAANED FOR INOERINE

NO IRtSTING HEQUITED

CALY QUALIFIES

IAEPLRATERS

CesHE

CAS MACE IRLERING

AASTRACT

BICROFILM

Hg iq

ssm-15tersisennnmen aseeroamsesi maoraaounta cas dctuns 15eC2SEiTern:

CS COPY

IS REFENENCE TO

latt

CLASSIFICATION

SBCBBT

501-306152

CUTE TYPED

DATE DESFALTENIEL

27 Jan. 65

DISPATEH SYMEICH ARD FRLINENII

OBTA 42,411

MEADQUARTERS FILE PLINBER

201-306052

---

## Page 254

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

CUSSARATION

SICRIT

ESTATCH STADOR NO NO

OELA 42,411

Ceorge H.

KATZENRACE

Attachaent:

report, herewith

Diatribution:

3 Chief,

Is m/att b/w

2 Chief,

KUDESK w/att

2 Chief,

F3 "/att

2 Ch1e1,

17 "/Itt

2 Chief.

tE watt hw

1-C03,

wtt h/w

q COS,

FORM

10 % 530

UISE PRETOUS EDITIONAL

51 28. 51 28A AAC $8-79

CLASSIFICATION

SICELS

FAGA MD

_CONTRANES

---

## Page 255

14-00000

=*

ate #175

OELA-42411

ES COPY

SEORET

when was

201-366052

Yestere

---

## Page 256

14-00000

•:

SEUKET

---

## Page 257

"DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

1O

ENFOL

FROM

Chief,

chief,

Kians Chiof,

KUDESK;

Chief, NEs COS,

Chief.

Chief, FEs Chief, 453

PROCESSING

ACTION I

DARNES FOR INDEXINO

NO MACERITIS, BEQUIRED

ONLO LALIFIED

MEX:: - ARTERS DESE

CAO. LOGE IRDEXINE.

ABSTRACT

MICHEFILM

Chief of Station,

SUBJECT LUDESK

Tape

of Interview vita

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

REFE

15706, 21 January 1965

Attached in the tape of the interrier vith

offjoe,.

using & ther 4000 Report - 5 recorder, reordine at a speed

of 15/16 root por monto.

"The isterviever used the alias of

arrived at 1745 and departed at about 2030.

We are not attempting to mummarise or analyse

comments in

thim dispatch.

tape provides a much more revealing ploture than

nubjootive sonments could. A fernotes, however, appear to be in order.

Speaking of his departure,

said he planned to leste

on 24 or 25 January.

de of noon 24 January, at leaste he vas still in

beaume I saw him walking on

(A potential

problem extets here! [

and not infrequently ride the same bus line.

This problem onn only be not

hon 1t anifests itaelf.)

inoidentally, has alerted ita

contaots (prior to our meeting withI

and requested that

They maid that thoy would l

PLISHED

40

I wan given money amounting to $300. Inder the circurtanoes

of his plans, as he expronmed them, it seemed reasonable to do so, to enturo,

at loant partially, that he would come back to talk more. He van more than

willing to take the money und raised the initial suggention of $200 to $300

от $400.

His

obvious shift in his line regarding dollars (an opposed to

1n farther indicative of his willingnens to got what he could.

makes the

The conmiderable number of namen mentioned byl

transoription of the notes a sirable chore, and in order to lensen thin

In which they appour in the tape, with the exception of

and a fer others.

The namob appear only one

time each on the lint, although many of them crop up repeatedly in the tape.

261-301.052

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

63:3 1

Bested frag telt

63-y71321

, CROSS REFERENC

26 Jma. 65

2711"

DISPATCH SYMEOL AND PUMBER

Call 4, 2, 410.

HEADQUARTERS FILE READER

QASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-3062s

jatts.

---

## Page 258

14-00000

CLASSAKATION

D.SPATCOS STALECA AND NO

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

071-42,410

A for of the phensos that do not ippear too clearly on the tapo are inoluded

on the list.

Oooanionally the namen are written phonetloally, indionted by

(pho).

offer of a photograph of

Jas not accepted, on the

assumption that KUBARK already has a photo.

If this is not the case, let

un know, and ve will inolude that in our requirementa for a subsequent seeting.

7o

The

118 ADDeTentlY

alno referred to an the

(Seo

J5575

of 12 January 19650)

8. The reference to the

(rather, is corroborated by) the material referred to in pure 4 of

75337

(22 December 1965) We are not fully aware of the

however,

2o in remierns the tago, 1t mll bacon apparent that the arrangements

Ivere left Iairly flerible for the future.

It would appenr, fron

his rosponses, that a longer range relationship with him oould, in faot, De

establinted 1f, after thorough roview of his materiale, that seems necessary

or desirable.

10• Ve will expect, in addition to the requirements that have been

pronised, that loadquarters wild advine un on their desire to arrango for the

one shot approach previounly suggested by Headquartore, or a different a

rangement®

No are unable to assons the validity or worth of all the commenta

he made.

Our impression, however, 1n that he 1a reasonably Inowledgemble of

# number of fiolde of Interest to uno

We also suspoot that in mone areas his

knowlodgo in quite superficial.

Hia nocoss to varlous aross of potential

intorent may be partially proved by hia trip around Burope and whould be a

useful indiostion of how me may be interested in playing bin.

The possibility

Headquartors' consente on this not on wir!

Thas not been overlooked, of course, and ve weloone

11. No would alao appreciate further comment on various personalities,

with whon ve are not fantlier

in the mont obvious in this oategory.

Headquartors in requested to provide un with a transoription of thin

tape, so woll as the promined requirements, prior to 15 Fabruary.

should also be provided with as moh of the material .an is of interest to then,

and a copy of that material should be given to un to pasa to the ObErVI office

To are also obliged to pans tol

such elements of this material us

In of loitinate concern to them.

In thin case, ne would suggest that this be

Interpreted rather Ilterally and feadquartere prepared copy be forwarded along

with the other items Listod above. (Note that

na tele soon run duit cooperates

being pouched alnont simultaneously with this dimpatoh.)

1.

George He KATZHiBACH

Attaohments borerith

l-Lint of names

2-Tape (sart erady)

10-57 500

Diatri balons

IS Chief, 13 WItHH

2-Chief, KUWALF /att br

2-ChieI, SUDESK Matt b/r

2 Chief,

rE w/att br

2-0h101,

Ar w/att br

USE PEEN CUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMS

SI 28. SI ZRA AND $1-29

WHICH ARE DESOLETE.

1-605,

A Chief._

1-005 gL

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

w/att k/or

Vatt h/

CONTRATO

PAGE NO

2

---

## Page 259

Ittachsent to C54-43,41

6 January 195

List of names on tajo, approxinately in order of appearances

are #15

OELA- 42410:

AL REY

201-306052

---

## Page 260

14-00000

SECHET

---

## Page 261

14-00000

obile: 000-010890

at DAD

GASIFY TO ARE NO.

HOLE TO FEE MO

FELE DID

D IT 80 BRANCH D

DESTROY D

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

PERSON/UNAT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPT

UNIT

REPRODUCT PROMID ITED

TIME

roses

M. FILCAZ, CA/OX, FEG, ADDR, CA, CAleROR, C/oRs, cr/Ica, AFA

D0$, Do/H3 FI, CCS.3

P

S

E CRET 2116122

2J 5464592

DIR INFO

CITE

5736

KUDESK

REF DIR 78506

OFFICER,

ODYOKE TDY FROM WASH, ARRANGED

FOR

_FOR INTERVIEW. G, WITHOUT ASKING

QUESTIONS, CAME WILLINGLY FOR INTERVIEW, WHICH LASTED OVER

TWO HOURS, MOSTLY SQUIRT TRANSMISSION WITH DIRECTIONAL PRODS

FROM

INTERVIZWER•

20 & VEHEMENTLY, REPEATEDLY AND APPARENTLY SINCERELY

VOLUNTEERED HIS CONVICTION THAT NO

_ FUNDS, OTHER

THAN 3000

ALTHOUGH

HAS LONG HOPED ENTICE I HEM TO DO SO•

IN GENERAL

TERMS, & COVERED HISTORY HIS INVOLVEMENT

SINCE 1958

INVOLVEMENT IN

WORK

IN

TRAVEL

AND SUBSEQUENT VICISSITE 06052

201-

8& JAN 1965

3. G LEAVING NEXT FEW DAYS TO TRAVEL EUROPE, TO

VARIOUS

OF PERSONS ASSOCIATED WITH

7-d 1389

RI COPY

AS. WELL AS NUMBER

LATTER

RI COPY

P

C

Y

I*$)

---

## Page 262

4-00000

RECEIVED

RID/MiS

SECRET

IN64592

PAGE 2

IN ORDER PRY FURTHER SAPO

pilANCIALICODELION AND

SOURCE OF

FINANCING, WHICH & BELIEVES HAS BEEN

FROM

SOURCES VIA

WILL TALK WITH "LITTLE

MAN WHO DOES MANY THINGS FOR

WHO ONE OF G'S BEST SOURCES ON

_RELATIONSHIP

WILL BE AWAY FROM

TILL ABOUT 15 FEB WKEN NEXT CONTACT

SCHEDUL. ED •

GAVE & 3RB DOLARS TO HELP PAY COSTS OF TRIP,

MAKE SURE NIS FUTURE COOPERATION. & SAYS HE EXPECTS RECEIVE

108

EROM

300 DOLLARS FROM

WHICH WILL ALSO MAKE TRIP POSSIBLE. HAS AGREED PROVIDE

AND, IF WAY CAN BE FOUND GET THEM OUT WITHOUT AROUSING

WIFE'S SUSPICION, SEVERAL BOXES OF CARDS WHICH CONSTITUTE

4. DISPAICH WILL FOLLOW, PLUS TAPES (FOR DIR

ONLYS OF MEETING.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

pat

.*.

p....

---

## Page 263

14-00009

na xt7 077,7 131-

ETCLASSIFIED NESSAGE

CLASSAY TO TRE NO

10 18 10 20i-366652

HANT TO FILE DO

SECRET

[NO MI NEY TO BIANCH I

ACTION

TOTAL COPIES 24

#*

84000

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UN IT

M. FRE, CA2, CA/PROP, WE L; FE,

LESTRACT

LES?

R

ECRET 201543Z

INFO DIRI

I CITEL

13742

KUDESK

RE A

B

5652 (~ 61219)

5813 (+ 60705)

ZBMN63559

CONCURS REF A.

INFORMS US

LETTER PREF & PAR: I) NOT BEING

HOWEVER LETTER ITSELF PROMPIS FOLL

QUESTIONS:

C

P

R

3O OFPA 77978 POUCHED HQS 18 JAN,L

T20 JAND PROVIDES

BACKBROUND MATERIAL INCLUDINGMEMO L

_CONVERSATION WITH

4.

INDEX 201-306032•

R

C

20 Jam 65

201-306052

RI COPY

(331

---

## Page 264

14-00000

DISPATCH

QASSNICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MANNED FOR MEE

Chief of Station,

INFa

ONLY QUALIFIED SCH

CAN RACE INDONE

FROM

Chief, VE

Transmittal copy of

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

KUDESK

Letter to KUBARK

RET: DIE 78506

As stated in reference we forward herewith copy of

letter which the Station might consider using ultimately to

establish

1f other means of establishing

(such as

does not satisly

case officer in showing the

• It ter to

need

Of KUBARK, though

might well

make that assumption.

F. ROLNICK

2

(w/att u.s.c.)

T.N

CROSS REFERENCE TO

solatt

ROSPINC

WE/BC

INITIAL

SAS

DYSPAYCH SYMBOL, AND NUDER

OELW21828

CLANSIFICATION

SECRET-

OBFACE

OFFICER

ME/BC (0)

DATE

201- 30605.2

CANTE

1T JAN 1961

19

January 1965

WOE FILE PRADER

201 - 306052

ORIGINATING

TYPYST

220

COORDINATING

OFFICERS PERASE

hirt

ros" 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

OFICESTUESE

DATE

DCWE(BC)

12/4! 65

DISPATCH

---

## Page 265

14-00000

prom

1O

INFO

FECH

SUBACT

ACTION

DISPATCH

chief, it

ATT.i, Caic, FE

Chief of Station,

Chito‹ Station,

CASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET

AMARIED FOR INDEXING

NO BADEXING REGUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAM RACE INDEUNO

CHOPLAS

I loentity do fomerly eaployed by identity B

REFERRICE:

8052

The follosing round-up and comentary on Iden A had been drafted

3017 of 6 January 1965 and later craffic presented tie

i'e forvard the follo.ing anyaay»

as some of the background and sugrestions still sect pertinent.

Several questions raised belo. have now been resolved, notably the aller

ation of an Iden A/:UbAR lin: (explained by the ODEVY letter of 1

December 1904, not available when the following was written). Corles

(correspondence oa Iden A, passed to us on 13 Jacuary

1965, are attacied as Attaciment 3, USC.

i. loon receiving the senorancum cited in tie reference, we requested

2. Our continulag preoccupation siti the Ilai d question is three-fold:

Ero IDi! B (and taus from acceptance by

opens the door for uis possible recruitment; (of peaceld like to deterutae

whether his

Jwas engineereá by personal enemies or wether he actually

=(c) asC

tine USA as its prinary target, thel

Ican be expected to continue prop

aganda attacks designed to create IDait D tension and inflame the

Attachments: 1. Excerpt fron RFE research bulletin, 19 Nor 64, h/w

s/cattacked in Rilan2, ilenorandum of Conversation, uSC

3. Letters dated 4 and ó Jan 65, USC

Distribution:"• Idanticies, USC

3 - Chiei,

"E waces

Chief, FE w/atts

Hatts.:

2 = CoS

7w/atts

IS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

OFFA • 77970

CLASUFICATION

SECRET

201-306052

JAN 1 8 1965

15 Jauary 1965

MOS FILE ILALIEN

201-306052

indian to deland utens

---

## Page 266

14-00000

...

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLAssNeAnON

SÜCAET

DEMATCN STMBOL ANO NUNNGEN

UERA 77570

etiitt -te"

iobdwtoraiso is sysdlc@tanychrtont cowonotai w@ehssotnamom.ado7ua.rautneyoprtorsda@iujc.uaomd

F: IRAa•

530

USE "HEVICRS EDITICO

CUATFICAFR

SECRET

PAGE AICA

L COnTINIED

---

## Page 267

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSICATION

DISPATON SYMBOL AND PUSIOLI

GERA 77970

...:

Believe IDENG

does not epist,

that someone with

confessed-hin

IDEN "A"

Iden "I' is wife of IDEN

She is

and not

Don' + beliese these is

• A

I have been conficion,

and her name is that grie

folDEN "I"

PAGENO

3

---

## Page 268

Att

- 2o: O77A - 77920, HW

KADIS

FREE :

Ei ROPE

Reseir.i.

Norember 17, 17::

Ündied Staieg

One of the most violent reactions came from the heart-

land of capitalism, from the small American faction wilc: pre-

duces the monthly Hammer & Steel Newsletter in Boston.

October issue of the mimeographed bulletin vengefully gives

list of eight reasons why Khrushchev fell - pach one a vin

dictive crow of triumph, and many attacking not only khrush-

cher but basic Soviet

peaceful coexistence -POlteies such as

"the distortion of

tratione:

Pointe 2, 3 and 8 will serve as illus-

?. 'Hie German policy - Khrushchev sought to ingratiate

himself with West Germany®

He was obviously ready

to dell out the German Democratic Republic..•

The declining influence of the CPSU among the Social-

ist countries and the Communist Parties.

The pro-

posed loscow gathering was shaping up as a conference

of only those Party leaders ready to openly serve

U.S. imperialist aggression against the national 110-

eration struggles.

her he de road

For example, Asian supporters of

Khrushchev could have gathered in a telephone booth.

8.

The nuclear success of People'e China. Khrushcher

had

maintained that nuclear power was

responsibility of revisioniate and inperiallete

of white nations.

11 62 50 700p,

the

exclusive

Khrushchev' a great power chauvin

ian was blown sky high in Sinkiang Province.

Although there is no evidence that the politically insig-

nificant Hanner & Steel group enjoys any direct support fron

the Chinese (as the Russians alleged in their "Open Letter"

of July 14, 1963), it has always offered its allegiance to

Peking in

the most extreme IOTh.

This is expressed agair i-

the claim that "Khrushchev's failure to recognize the contra-

diction between the oppressed peoples and imperialise as the

Focal contradiction of our time resulted * anas is & cialm

ing the leading role of the Chinese Party.

that the Chinese themselves would not want to make, expecially

at this juncture.

OFPA-77970

CS COPY

201-306052

---

## Page 269

14-00000

ASSRY TO FERNOTEL → LETTE IELASSIFIED MESSA

FLE RIO

DESTROY O

зі й то пит

SECRET

SAC...

TELAL CORES AN

17...

ИСТЕОН

EVANCE CReT

UN 17

THEO

-004, 00/43, 01/11 ₴

SECRET 1516A6Z

DIR INFOL

CITE

KUDESK

ABSTRACT

3073 (CILIBERTI

ASL

all i

svet

REF A• DIR 75497

1N58385

15 SeM 651: 6 07 05

Bo

5575

(MILSO PE

I AIRMAILING

TO

KATZENBACH LETTER WRITTEN TO

ENCOUNTER BY

AT

INVITATION RE FINANCIAL

BACKING OF

WILL NOT RFT NOT

SINCE

OBVIOUSLY WOULD BURN ERIDGES BETVEEN|

JAND OLD COLIF AGIE SO

C

P

2 .

SUGGEST FOLLOWING COURSE OF ACTION:

Y

A. KUBARKER UNDER

AF.T

ALL POSSIBLE INFO OUT OF

USING NECESSARY MINIMIN

FINANCIAL INDUCEMENT. DEBRIEFINS SHOIND START ASAD AND

RELATIONSHIP SHOULD CONTINUE AS LONG AS FRUITFUL

FEELS

ENTHUSIAST AND OPPORTUNIST

HOULD RESPOND BADLY TO OPEN KUBARK PITCH):

Bo MEANWHILEL

GIVE L

100

GRANT TO TRAVEL

AND PREPARE ARTICLES WHICH WOULD NOT BE PUBLISHED UNTIL EVIDENT

THAT I

_BURNED AMONS FORMER CONTACTS:

--.

WHEN EVIDENT

BURNED AND FI POTENTIAL. SAMANSIER

Stirel

15 Jam 65

201-306052

1-68 1389

RI COPY

RI COPY

R

R

(351

---

## Page 270

F ENCOUNTER AND OTHER

*: PROPAGANDA IMPACT

• 3• APPREC ADDRESSEES REACTIONS ABOVE.

.'A. NO INDEX.

SSECRET

SCEN

STONEl

VOULj: TRY FOR MAXIMUM

3 $

..!

TEB 3

il 03 PM •65

111:

---

## Page 271

021G :

UNIT :

EXT

DATE .

CI/ICG

5928

14

JAN 65

Ajan DIRECTOR

clea

2ESS.:6÷ 20212.8

13 S-S-C-P-=-T

D NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

- a 2--

O RETURN TO BRANCH

D FILE NO

R

P

INT

CTE Di

77493

KUDESK

RE

5575 (IN 58385)#

FRIEND

DIR 764974*

WHILE APPRECIATE ANY INFO AVAILABLE

HOS HAS

IZICH ADEQUATE EISIS &3:

STATION: DIRECT

CONTACT WITH

NOW TO DETERHINE AVSILABILITY AID RICE FOR ONE

. WEEK DEBRIEFING BY ODYOKE OFFICIAL

"ISE CONTACE HId

NOW WHILE HE UNEMPLOYED AND I PROBASLY AVAILIBLE.

END OF N'ESSAGE

*CITED INTO FROS

RE

#*REQUESTED

STATION CONTACT

FOR DEBRIEFING.

DETERLINE KIS AVAILABILITY

AS 53E2

74 p

201-306052

FE/CH

DCWS (BC)

Pa 138%

REPRC

RI COPYI

6137:

D BY OTHER TARÀ THE ISSUIG OFFICE IS SION:

: • ED.

:=AT:86

(33)

---

## Page 272

14-00000

EX:77,89C Terr

R

C

Of s0s

fILE HID

DES BC. L

ESSIFIED NESSAGE

121

SECRET

00

TOTAL COPIES

REPROGUCT ION PROMIEITEO

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

TOWE

CA/O 4

INPO

48088

MR. FILE, LA 2, u'RE 6, FF 6, 04, 60/OPS, F, FUSPE, R/INT 2, CO/Ve 2

2p

SECRET 12173?

DIR INFO

KUDE SK

REF A.

Bo

DIR 75457

1353

10 THEM THAT

CITE

5575 (CAVOOD ACTING)

iPS

tit

2201

LISTE

12 10 65 1 5 8383

OC. MICRO. GER.

FLo 1 0 1965

1O MAITER DISCUSSED B3040 ISR1S WITH

EXFLAINED

OF CUFPENT INTEREST IC US, WITH POSSIBLE

OPERATICNAL OBUECTILES WHICH HOT YET RESOLVED. WOULD APPPECIATE

THEIR

ATTUTEDES, ETC BY Cia CE

THEY HAVE RECENTLY

IN SUPPORT GE CONSIDERABLE MOUNT OF INFO CURRENTLY 19 haD.

VILL HAKE AVALAGLE ROSSD-UP ON SUBJ WITHIN VEXT FEW DAYS.

2.

or a

SECRET

3-201-725837

12-2am.65

201-306052

T-8d 1389

RI COPY

iyust TrotT: 1-12319749134-5977

RI COPY

---

## Page 273

14-00000

- t090-990-9000 10381 ones

SECRET

10 55200

4O VIEW FORESCINS, DO FRISENT NEED THESSIN

WILL

ADVISE IF SERVICES RECUIFED. APPRECIATE REF B.

ODERVYL

BE 19G MEP! INFORMED AND MOST COOPERAIIVE.

6.: FURTIER INFO FROM

_WILL BE FORWARDED SOONESI,

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

FEAR, 6NI.109:916A

Her pers

FEB 4 II 08 PM °63

Ri0/11

i:":

L

---

## Page 274

14-00000

57 0151

Lassier 30 put No 201- 306052

I NEE TO FOLE N1O

PALE RIO

1У 80 RANCH I

DESTROY I]

(hen Pilled 1e)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

5s00.

REPRODUCT ION PROMID ITER

HETTER

AF i

116888

MR. FILE, NEG, FE6, CAN CAles, Cs, 09/095, C7/0C7, E5, ESNTZ,

7 1 00

OSECRET

Y DIR INFO

061550z

CATa

5512 CAWOOD ACTING

REF A.

_5337

68475187

" Bo

13017 (M5S24)

1o WHILEL

HAS RESERVATIONS ABOUT

SUGGEST DEFER DECISION TILL MORE INFO IN HAND•

TE UP,

REF B DEVELOPMENT WOULD

SEEM PROVIDE USEFUL MEANS GETTING MORE THOROUGH ASSESSENT OFL

BT

8 Jan65

Satel

201-306052

PEd 1 389

OBSOLET

putt and:

801940775$

RI COPY

MoÖ1."'

RI COPY

(23)

---

## Page 275

по. + -4+.

C-0-s-F-1-D-E-N-T-I-A-L...

When Filled. In

% January

(date)

_1975

When Filled In

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-#I-I-A-L

---

## Page 276

1A-0D

?..

....

_с-о-w-F-n-D-110a-1-A-1

When

Filled In

SEC?2/ Vete)

-1914

SECRET

When

Filled In

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-V-I-I-A-I

....-

•.-

---

