# 104-10172-10205

## Page 1

104-10172-10205

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

•Do Not Reprod ce:

189, il pi 1018: 10 091)

HOWG AD E.600D SuECr

FRION TO PULIPIG

8oll an S549 a9 aeo losa l 19o-d0o lo Ha.ord 11.ags

am.1 Aspa0-=.8100 006)

#o: 8r-888-119050888 shrd wnlereil anoreols

alanile ad" de tarn dakene or enmmenls derguir.

OnA prrSeIrAlIOn.

TNON:

1O. ACION MRANEH

Il lole aaro ararl dorle shrowen afe soont preryee.

inorel perpaao lilo auno talru apet donene-aret

dlre umel in RIDIANA

FRUmy a eMe io

RID/

......=.

8/.9118°

I'XT, 7057

6".19.

C.150

TUbE GTJ

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

PFLA D BO CTION P ONBACH N ALANGOMIAVE

SB/MC

E/REG

TO

HOO#

NO.

17667 41

ПАСИТЕВ

Cho e me0 tr

1T6AL8

CI/ESEC

05 APR 1972

Ernie]

Nietir

DC/C/11 APRBIZ

clell

D

10.411.4 Sk

V jer

JUN 1972

DOC. MICRO. SER.

MAR 28 1972.

MICROFILMED

SIElOP.

¿fellsig

1.6

Sio

15Juse

fale.

10.

N2.

13.

- feiiteron.

- tep.piphastiete

neciy.

me deger fintain %.

tes frients wich'

isjasde

X.naf to "dcis daation tlehAdle pefection."

Z/BR

---

## Page 2

•8:

s50te de

SECTAT HIHAT

Toe Me to 18f:

-8.8.

10 HISt

Chrt, sended Etect Coleg, European DivisIon

send god

EDGESKiSI - Anatolly Nakhay lousch GOLITSTN (EQ1-201855)

ACTION REQUIRED: ETI

REFERENCE:

None

12 Attached hereuith is a [JAGUAR report of debriefing of

ASHASH regarding the repercussions to the defection of

'GOLITSYN.

Attnchment:

JAGUAR Report

01

Distribution:

2 - C/WOMUSE, 'hw/att

2 - C/SB, hw/att

.3 - C/EUR, h/att

1999

F216-756/3

Di: 156/4

краля вулься по штися

...

22(05L7-51618

: SECRET/RYBAT

20 March 1972

DO 21-49788

501996055

---

## Page 3

DOG NURO. SER.

W17 2 5 1972

Mia.

RiZAT SECRET

anatoliy "1lha1arich COLITIEs

bor: 25.8.1935.

Dafected In Finlead 15.12.1951.

:1P

GOLTIST desceted during sours's pesied of cervice sit: the .G.B.

•Sourcs heard about hia fIon various X.G.E. officors bu: never set his

and ines of his only by this nono.

Trias TEPLIAKOVA horever also knew 11

CE GOLITSYU DO ALIOY.

sno heand his story when che visited hrs parent

1n Finland and, while thoro, she net GOLISTe vife nho called un hor

sothere:

with sugard to GoliStly dofcetion, source said he had been told

1n London by both Kontantin Ivanovich ZOTOV hoad of k.G.3. Jranci 2

(Counter intelligence) there, end Sergey likhaylorich COLATY, tho I.G. B.

officer responsibie for the Soko, that GOlItSyi, toss job in Finland

souzze described en "Branch 2 or schethind", had clrched violen ly vita.

hia Resident in Eelsin'si®

He trote & misbor of official and private

lesters to joscor csting that cithor to or tho Pesidant bo trensferred.

Headquerters refised to agreo this, and when he visited "oscow threatened

that 1f he friled to out on with the Residont he sould ba in danger of

losing his job.

This mas too such for GOLItSYl, so hn defactor.

added thut this reuson for GOLITY!'s defection was convincing, end that

that on

he had never hoard any sunour that it was not cenuine.

Sousce gave the folloming infortion about the noasurca taken by

the X.G.3. as the result of GOLITSN!'s dofection:

(a) He had been sentenced to decthe this mes stated in an article

In "The Chekist" which anneare sane tiue after 1964.

The K.G.B.

would try to kill him as soon as they could find hin.

(8) 11thin six recks of COLUBEY's arrival In London on 12.6.7i. ho

told sourco that he had received a telegray froa headquarters ordering

him to concentrate on obtaining information about GOLISiTi, (50 whor

she 8.G.B. had firen ine abusive nicinana URCD), occause according to

their Infomation GOLTSVi hed visited Ingland several tines, ard shile

taoy had no established "tho place of residence" they had no approash

to bin.

Loscon recuired dotailed infomation about there he uns livi

his hobits end activitics.

Ires the fording of this teletran source

deduced that COLliSY nas not resident in Ingland, and that the objeat

of this oder ras to reaind GOLDBOY of a otanding Instruction that the

highest priority »as to be given to obtaining inforation about his.

CS COPI

H/w.ArT. /To@617) 54018 RiBAr SECRET

201-49788

i/BR

---

## Page 4

CI)ESEC

To Chip womuse

FRom: Chise of Station,

22

0E17-54618

SE0WT A

87 MAR 1972

15.

MAR 22 1972

2: MAR 1912

ZIBR

---

