# 104-10079-10177

## Page 1

104-10079-10177

ninetty

CAS -JORN M. WH

CLASSIFIED MESSÄGE

: S1! 3

O INDEX

SECREI

ST

3013

EX NOI INDEX

DATE: 9 DECEMBER 1953

2

EX FILE IN CS FILE N0201-287248 destroy 3

TO

THE WHITE HOUSE ATTN: MR. MCGEORGE BUNDY

DEPARTMINT OF STATE

ATTN:

MR. U. ALEXIS

JOHNSON

FROM:

HERPRAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CENTRAL INIELLIGENCE AGENCY

12-62

ROUTING

4

6

9 Decat

19 17÷

CONF:

Sitin

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO: 001, 0/D01 = DOP: C/CI,

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTEO ON 24 MAY 197€

PRIORITY

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

87796

THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN, HAS RECEIVED A LETTER HAILED

25 MOZEMBER 1963 IN STOCKHOIM ALLEGING THAI THE ASSASSINSTION OF PRESIDENT

KENNETY WAS ARRANGED BY THE RED CHINESE. TEE LEITER PARPORIS TO BE FROM

ONE KO LANG SUAY ON THE RED CHINESE EMBASSY IN STOCKFOEM,:

Sure tsena

BUL NO SUCH OFFICIAI

IS ASSICNED THERE AND TIBRE IS NO RECORD OF A CHINESE OFTICIAI BY THIS NAME ANYWHERE

ABROAD.

2..

THE LDTTER IS WRITTEN IN BROKEN ENGLISH AND STATES THAT THE CHINESE CONUNISTS

Document Number 258 - 14.

MAY 1976

GOI IN CONTACT WITE OSWALD. WHEN HE WAS IN THE SOVIET UNION. WHEN OSHALD RETURNED

IO THE U.S.A., THE RED CHINESE RE-CONTACIND HIM, TUREATENSD IO EXPOSE DIM DE HE DID

NOI COOPERATE.

on

THE RED CHINESE EXPECIED THAT THE U.S. WOULD ATTACK CUBA WHEN IT

LEARNED THAT THE ASSASSIN WAS A CUBAN SYMPATRIZER. THE SOVIETS WOULD THEN ATIACK

OTHE U.S.A., THE RED CHUNESE WOULD ASK THE SOVIETS FOR ATOMIC WEAPONS, THE

CONUNIST BLOC HOULD WIN THE WAR; THE CHINESE REDS WOULD THEN ASSASSIIATE

EKHRUSCILEV AND TAKE OVER CONTROL.

3. THE WRITER SAID HE WORKED FOR THE "IMPARIMINT OF SIATE SECRET, " BUT NO DEPARIMENT

BY THIS NAME IS KNOWN IN THE CHINEST COMMUNIST GOVERNMENT.

IN STOCKHOLS

JUDGES THIS TO BE A CRANK LETTER. THE ORIGINAL IEITER IS BEING SENT HERE FOR

ANALYSIS

uthority of

RICHARD HELMS

RELEADAR OFFICER

US COFEND OF MESSAGE

201-289248

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CROUp!

Exeluded from aulomatie

SECRET

downgrading and

D-200-5-41

declassifiestion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER FHAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICEA

Copy No.

09906

---

