# 104-10118-10334

## Page 1

104-10118-10334

SECRET

:D-13

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Chie

REPRODUCTION

cions,

DD/P

(Renewal)

IN 1259

1.

The attached

project, originating in WI Division,

is

presented ior

renewal

for the period 1 December 1959 through

31 November 1960.

The project provides for physical and photo-

graphic surveillance operations in support and exploitation of

other Mexico City operations, particularly those targetted at

Soviet personnel and installations.

2

Authority is requested to obligate $84, 910 from the

DD/P-WA Division operating budget:

$43,435 for

fiscal year

1960 and $36,725 for fiscal 1961

subject to the availability

of funds.

These

sums Include $6i, 910 compensation for

five

contract

agents (three

of whom serve as principal agents for

segments of the project), and sixteep

support agents; $3,500

carrier travel; $7,500

operational equipment;

maintenance of three

sarehouses; $2,000 for

money,

commodities; $2,000

,000 for the purchase.of

pibes, etc.

and

the Field, reviews

one activities of the project during

the

past year

a detailed brealdown of the funds requested.

and

present

The

project

operates

in three

SCANTLING

segments:

(a) Contract

agent Oliver

C .

an

independent asset who is used

to foilow-up

and

exploit

operational information

on target personnel and installa

bions, to case

various installations of interest, acquire pro-

perty, etc.; lo, a photographic surveillance team,

under prin-

utilizing three houses or apart

under principal agent Simon D. CIACKETT, consisting of three

brained members at the present time. The attached renevoi

request reviers the actirities and accomplishments or the pro-

3806 in terms of these three sermes

joot objectives. SCANTDINGIE.

or

installasions ie r

PROMIBITED"

Soviat personnel ant

as unique.

He also.

SEGRET

0004042

PAGE

COPY NO.

8f 68

17671

---

## Page 2

14-00000 /

SECHET

trained ULACKETT in radio controlled mobile surveillance.

SCANDLEG alsO has rendered valuabie

support to

the

LITAC TI

operation

navine gained cabry to the target under a

fabri-

cated

cover.

le has, aled, cased and prepared reports

00: 600

serget in preparation tor

future

operations and per-

formed

inventigations of

numerous other station targets or

opportunity.

He investigated

many

leads

from

surveillance operations

enabling the

other

audio-

Station to

currens

data

on

various Soviet

contacts

maintain

and

resulting

recrulonent

in a

attempt whici,

while unsuccessful,

believed

Go indicate

future potential

along this line.

He has fur-

ther been

used to develop radio procedures for the mobile

Geams

and to rent various properties in support of other

Scation operations.

The CoRDiDE segment,

using three base

nouges

sor photography, produced upwards

ot 12,000 photo-

graphs during the year.

One base has recently begun taking

notion victures of

Soviet personnel in

the course of conver

sation aion have been forvardod to TI/D for possible exploita-

non or 11p readina

analysis.

This segment also operates

mobile

the

radio surveillance vonicles.

mobile photography

Sur-

veillence Gruck has

been used during the project yeas

for

coverace si various station barnets which ac

not warrant the

establ:

sament of permanent photographic basea.

GRENDE has

also served to sent post office boxes, hotel

rooms, etc.,

in

support of other Sbation operations.

During

the past project

who returned to Mexico in

carly April. 1959

after Headquarters training, spent

the following two months

being

6751nad

SCANDING

in mobile surveillaace techniques.

He ther

undertools training of a four member

judged

ready

team which was

for poorational uce toward the and of the project

Dro additional

contract

agenes, Wilma d. FIORDALISI and

LOUISG . TAUntIe; performed translation and

support functions.

ipproactate staft components concur in recommending

renews?.

(e) or Staff notes that the CI value of the project

1a airclould to judge since it appears

foot much of

19087121

the

2en0dne an the

Station for exploita

tis:.

that

the value

of the

Project should

10002

sean enters tato socive operation ore

surveil

gesta baed the Stacion

queried as fonghe

pretext

Or.

circumstances under vaien 36:NTLIMG

fredriently visits

Abhe ocoupant

02

Whe

property

nolacent to the Sories inacallation.

DEL LET

0004043

?:""

2024

---

## Page 3

4=0000

SECRET

(b) 172/OPS notes that while the

project review pre-

conto a clear picture of the aims

and objectives of the

various segments, it does nos provide, except in the

case of SoaNcINg, detailod indication of the value on

meccalness of the other segments, particularly the photo.

craphie activity.

01/0rs requests that the Station pro-

wide such an appraisel during the firet quarter on 1960.

72/0es recommends strongly lot une photo coverace be

reviened from the standpoint of value and usefulness with

o view to decermining whether the

LILYRIC

activity could

not be safely eliminated

and toe additional photographic

coverage conducted on a more selective

basis?

without

navecially afrecting overall

usefulness.

TI/OPS notes

100t.

in the sosance of furbhor oroof

of usefulness,

the

color photography and noving pictures appear to be an

unnecessary luxury.

the

FI/OPS commends

the careful handiing

CLACKST dement and requests that the next project

action include examples of the team's progress.

I recommend renewal of Project Gic Pty as

presented

wish attention to the abar? commentorin paragraph 4

above.

Chief

Foreign Intelligence

Approves:

90P-D575

Accachness:

Date

Staff Coocdination:

For

0/5T/ons

-S/R. Bryant

Por

Or Star? -sy

TOr C/000

-s/T. Youngblood

Fi COURET

00G4Ckk

01 88

---

## Page 4

(:

SEGRET

REPRORUCTION

PROHIBITED

LTEVETY

PROJECT

Mexico City

STATION

REPRODUCTION

AMBITED

leselo

icer

Willard C.

CURTIS, Chiet of Station

50- REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

50-6-7411

BS COPY

"ass@iseT 11489993-22387

LAGLI PARREIE

PAGE &

COPY NO.

1 MMA - 22357

0004045

of 68

---

## Page 5

4-J00010)

I. CURREE OBURCTIVES AND PRODUCION RELATED LIPPERO

A. Oliver G. SCANILING Segment (in relation to project objectives.)

1. "Eo collect operational information pertaining to LINERICK personnel

and physical facilities:

SCANILING has continued to provide worthvile in-

cornacion in support of this objective. (See previous project roview forwarded

by IIMIA-20052 of 18 October 1962.)

During the past year SCANTLING was used to

follow up leads produced by both LIFEAT' and LIENVOY in support of this objective.

In partician SALDiG provided, in blueprint detail,

casing reports on the

hones

ai two Soviet intelligence officers who are targets for Station technical

operetions.

SAILING also is used to sid the Station in maintaining current records

of the residences

of Soviet personnel living in Mexico.

This is accomplished by

SCANILING'S fOllowD oi LIENVOY leads which indicate sovic interest in renting

specifie properties.

"To collect operational. Information pertaining to other targets of op-

portunity, foseign official instollations and personnel of intelligence interest

operating ir Mexico."

SCANTLING has proved successful in providing information

on other station torsces:

c. SOATTLING obtained information on

a suspeci

Soviet

support agent which wao the basis of further Station operations

assinso this targot.

SCAVELING provider a casing of the formor Vugoeler Commercial

Ozzice against which the station had planned a technical operation.

However,

this alte vas cvacuated by the target mission before

blans

were completed for this attempt.

3 .

SCATLING has conductod detailed itrescigations in various cases

involving possibio agents or contacts o: hostile inter?igence cer-

vices.

These cases vere of prime concer to station Marico is

¡requently win tilleutalien at tig tollost of licadanaghans on orher

Stations.

i provide mesos not der abacior.

Maches do relatedladi

in thee iron.

me reportint period, horever, te Teig4o C 60ur 20'e support to ottoccasior

Durable bre baron deser tis.

C.9a 16090 elated ThOUGH ?::

0004046

6 8

---

## Page 6

14-VOUVJ

2-

.e..

PRODUCTION

AMROD

operation, in which Raymond H.

al role, was

of singular importance to

the.

ration.

SCANILING's many fields

of

Op-

cence were drawn on fully and he thereby provided

ontribution to the opcration. Without the arsistance

of SCANTLING and GERENDE with their unique qualifications,

this

operation would have been difficult in the extreme if indeed at

all possible.

In support of the Station's harassment campaign against Juan Jose

AREVALO Bermejo, Launched at the request of Headquarters,

SCANILING again provided the means for carrying out a large portion

of. the action taken.

'SCANILING's efforts ranged from the mailing

of "poisoned" candy to the target to the placing of threatening

phone calls.

SCANTLING also made calls to various Mexican news-

papers aná mailed "montage" pictures of AREVALO and a Soviet in-

telligence officer to Guatemalan newspapers in the campaign to

discredit and discourage AREVADO in the Guatemalen Presidential

campaign.

SCANTLING i

of minimizing the danger of the

ins recognized as being in contact

SCANTLING's contribution to this

operation happea

and agent handl

d.

SCANTLING continued to conduct numerous pretext and neighborhood

investigations. As in the past many of these investigations were

in relation to highly sensitive cases.

4. Although SCANTLING's LIMPTY project objectives con not be completoly

fulfilled, it is the Station's opinion that SCANILING continues to make valuable

contributions to the objectives of the project and to other. Station ectivitles.

SCAlLier's production, measured against monetary openditure, cese

officor time

and. othor Intangibles factors, unquestionably justifies his continuing os an

integre: part of Project LInerY.

Felt buta to thera obiant ren.

ly deseribed in the 1060 Requesi dos Proget Haneval

SECT

0004047

26

PAGE

COPY

NO.

. 01 6 8

---

## Page 7

÷-

2.

"I@ collect operational inforation and idontify operational leads

pertaining to Station targots of lopportunity."

The LIENtAP operation,

landlad by GORENDE, is still the major contributor to this oujective.

LIENTRAP operational emphasis continues to remain in the area of photo staieout

of prominent Mexican Communists and is presently working fulltime on providing

Dictures of individual Conmunists, homes suspected of being meeting sites used

of the Coonuist Party and the Conmunist Party Headquarters itself.

LIENTRAP

has aldo recently begun to be used on ZINICK leads.

It is expected that

aculr..as of falerar in that latter area vill expand

"Io provide operational support to Station operations incluiins the

rentina os notel rooms and sale apartments, renting and servicing of post office

boxes, and conducting counter-surveillances."

CRaNDE's contribution to the

AMROD aperation vas noted in paragraph I.A.j.a. above.

GRENDE's comprehensive

area cureûge and personal operational capabilities enablo him to make a

values: contribution in such operations as AMROD and also enable him to procure

the most jesirenble safe sites in suppori of the Station's operations.

projectis assets, particularly GERINDE and LIIMPIY-10, presently provide 20

post cifice box mail drops for use of Mexico City Station and other Stations.

considerably during the next roar

addresses), a number of post office boxes will be retained ior use in future

operations.

The quelity and quantity of operationut in omation produced by the

photographie bases and other accivities under GilanDl's control and supervision

is consinned by the Scation worthwhile and in some cares unique.

It is con-

cludoi, theretore, that this segment of the LIEMPTY Projeci shoula be continued.

C. Belshlonshin is the Related Monion Directive

= corso in the exonples given abore, Project IllmeTy has provided vauabl

io many Station Operations and incroby has been a contributing factor t

dultalment of the Related Mission objectives of the Station.

The project

aro.ideed any positive intelligence nor is

it intendel to do so.

projectio

sole purpose is to provide a techanion for the development of opera-

clonel intomation.

i. 9114-1623

En one mice change nade in the hiery project as the replacerent of

she hiMmeD basenduse.

mis wes arranged

•O DO TO pROVIdE GERANDE Tith nore

1iieue copid processing of te LIMPT.

Ginse SCAraLIte i: closer in sde co lin ten

So dato does aurena die tre conlition thien

wht yores nod, Chaplode rest hos Deer

0004048

68

---

## Page 8

4-

ordered by her doctors and

It is therefore unlikel

project year.

clearance

at

Statio

estimated

COS

may be necessary in early 1954.

Ibe able to work during the coming

request cancellation of her operational

The unusual

RUN DPIE

ngluded salery payments to her in the

coming year.

(below)

ase reflected for LIEMPTY-19 in the "Project Costs"

section for

oming year is due to this agent's new duties of LIFEAT

processing

in adaition to her old duties as translator. Agent's OA was amended

for this use on 2 January 1963.

III.

EKE ECTIVE

The comments made concerning the project's effectiveness in the Project

Renewal of 1960 (HMMA 15979) remain valid.

Indeed the Station's need for the

type of services provided by the assets of this project are at least as great

today as tkey were when those comments were originally forvarded.

.. IV.

PROBLEMS

There are presently no know major problems facing the operation which would

affect either the security or the effectiveness of this operation.

The security

Both

GERENDE tOok th

gUTTER during the month of October

1965.

No security problems were revealedlay this test.

v.

PLANS

The Station considers

that the project is operating at its optimum size and

does not plan to expand it during the coming year.

Erforts will be continued to

refine and better utilize the existing project organization and to improve the

compartmentation and security oi the project.

VI.

COSTS

A.

inately

to date

SUS 10,300 will be exyenced turi;

102 - 30. June 1963) and in

B.

Neit Project Year -

on the

itemized below,

matel dus 30, 290 ill se arpeal too buis remainder us 19,110

0004049

28

6 8

PACE

COPY

0701

NO.

---

## Page 9

5--

AGENT SALARIES

(including

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

Louise J. MACRINO

(at SUs 2.02 per hour)

ITEMPTY- 4

LIEMPTY-5

(at US 1.75

per hour)

LIEMPTY-6

LIEMPTY-7

LIEMPTY-8

LIEMPTY-9

LIEMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPYY-12

LIEMPTY- 13

LIE PTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LILMPTY-24

KEP RODUCTION

per year

6,000

5,500

no salary

2, 400

• 2,000.

3,700

no salary

REPRODUCTAEN

PROMIE

2,000

2, 000

2, 000

2,000

10 salary

Sus. 59,500

FY 1964

FY 1905

SUB TOTAL

OPPRATIONAL ENCENSES

Transportation:

Mainterance of MV-2279, MV

MV 2255

2224,

2, 0OC

REPRODUCTION

PROMISED

sus 24,540

sus 15,160

0004050

P13D

COPY. NO

of

6 8

---

## Page 10

eaten REPRODUCTION

FY 1964

FY 1965

LIMITED'*

LICALLA*

LILYRIC

3,300

1,700

1,200

Procurement of safehouses, post

office boxes, and rental of

automobiles

500

Purchase of Information, documents :

and bribes

500

SUB TOTAL

Repair; maintenance and purchase

replacement photographic

and purchase of fil

OUT RÉPRODUCTION

GRAND TOTAL

PROMISI

Sus 49,700

5,390

3,010

560

4.40

$US 30,290

VII.

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

hergency recontact

arrangements for Oliver G.

SCANILINO and Raymond H.

GERONDE n13 on file in Headquarters (seb HMMA 15982 of 23 November 1950 and

HMMA 15901. 0* 23 November 19602)

vor further intornation see project reneval

request st 1950 forrerded dy HMA 15979.

VIII.

TRAINING

Do training,

other then that within the competency af

SCANTLING

or. GERADE

to, sive,.."

"o anticipated

for the coning project year:

NOTE:

LINITED and LICALLA rents

tO LIVESA expense.

50.

REPRODUCTIO

to Osabion by IIMOUSINE and conti ted

PROHIBITED

500-6-771

HANG A -22,2387

ES GC27

66046512349

68

of

PACS

CORY NO.

---

## Page 11

$E0m

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CRYPTONYM

STATION

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER

. SHEET

REPRODUCTION

* PROHIBITED

SD CASE OFFICER

Mexico City

eren

NARCOS

The attached project action is presented for approval for the period

1 December 1962 through 30 November 1963.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

IS COPY

BASUP 1

Excluded tron automalic

das Tone, 970

50-6-24/1

0004052

68

PACE

002Y

NO.

2.2.

0f

---

## Page 12

I. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

CAPER BALICTION

Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities." SCANTLING has continued (see pre-

• vious Project Reviews forwarded as attachments to HMMA-17999,

October 1961, HMMA-14093, 13 November 1959

and HMMA - 15979, 18

November 1960) to provide worthwhile infor

on pertaining to this ob

During the past year SCANTLING

continued to be used ex-

tensively to follow up leads produced b

BEAT and LIENVOY.

cellent example of this blending

support assets was the

investigation and casing pe

& after leads from both

MIENVOY and LIFEAT Li

of launching a successful

technical operation against the resic

3f a high ranking LIMERICK

intelligence officer assigned td IM

Arco under diplomatic cover. With the

aid of the thorough casing repors and neighborhood investigation completed

by SCANTLING, Station KURIOT personnel, supported by other Station

support assets, were successful in installing a technical device in the

SCANTLING continues to be the Station's primary means of keeping

current records on the residences of the many Soviet personnel in Mexico

This is primarily accomplished through SCANTLING's follow up of

all LIENVOY leads which indicate interest by Soviets in specific quarters.

(See previous project renewal requests for additional details.)

"To collect operational information pertaining to other targets of

opportunity, foreign official installations ar

gonnel of intelligence in-

terest operating in Mexico":

"SCANTLOO

ery useful for collecting in-

formation on other Station targets:

Sain On the basis

Veracruz, the Stat

in He del

ACID Installation in

s support counted an

operation to unobtr

vely.

a large unit of agricultural

machinery (of U.S. origay

was in transit to Cuba. To

mount this operation, a precise and detailed casing of the imple-

ment was essential. This SCANTLING was able to accomplish in

one trip to Veracruz with results that contributed substantially to

the operation.

50-

0004053

PAGE

COPY 10.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

-2.-

b. SCANTLING provided the Station a detailed investigation

of Harotun ("Harry") KOPOIAN, employee of American Communists

Albert and Margaret MALTZ, which

determined the residence

Of KOPOIAN as well as his family status and connections.

c. In the Satellite area, SCANTLING completed a casing of

an official Yugoslav installation in conjunction with a projected

Station technical operation.

3. "To exploit operational leads through recruitments,

debriefings,

and surveiliances." SCANTLING has contributed to this objective both

directly and indirectly as noted in the following examples:

a. SCANTLING completed a detailed and secure interview of

the fiancee of BESMOOTH to determine her connection with the

principals in the MCMAYFOWL case, particularly any connection

with procurement of documents used in the flight behind the Iron

Curtain.

This assignment was extremely sensitive (SCANTLING

was not told true reason for interview) and SCANTLING did an

admirable job while maintaining his cover for having the interview.

b. SCANTLING was called on for extensive initial spade work

in the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation, SCANTLING

gave his

usual competent performance despite the fact that the role assigned

hire ivas unique to his experience.

c. SCANTLING performed one man surveillance of a sensitive

Station Soviet double agent which contributed significamly to that

operation.

. SCANTLING was used extensively during the visit of

GPIDEAL as part of the Station's eftor in providing maximum

protection for she GPIDEAL party.

e. In addition, SCANTLING pertormed numerous pretext and

neighborhood investigations, some of which were highiy sensicive.

SCANTLING also does most of the jocal investigations requested by

ODACID and other ODYOKE components.

In addition to his contributions to the dbove nojectives, SCANTLING

u used for miscellaneous support requiremencs from the Sration.

For example,

SCINTLING handled LiBMBROU-2 until the "-rurn of LIMOTOR - la in July

SCANTLING is also used to spot and year safe houses ad apartments

i other Station operations.

0004054

of

K 8

PATE

---

## Page 14

-3-

Ithough SCANTLING'S LTEMPTY

ng Requests

for Project Renewal,

specifically and to other Statibn activittes in general. SCANTLING's

production, measured against monetary expenditures, case officer time

and other intengible factors, unquestionably justifies his continuation

as an integral part of Projeci LIEMPTY.

B. Raymond H, GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1.

"To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses. "

Three photographic bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC

and LICALLA, contIloute

to this objective.

To avoid repetition, the

lon is omitting the usual

description of the functions of thesert

bases and how they contribute

to the above objective. This ya

described in detall in the 1900 Request for

Project Renewal. (HMMAFI

2. "'To collect operat

sation and identity operational

leads pertaining to Station Far

opportunity.

" The LIENTRAP operation,

handled by GERENDE, is still'the major contributor to this objective.

Among LIENTRAP's regular and extensive photographic assignments, was

the photo stakeout of prominent Mexican Communists (some of whom have

never been photographed previously by KUBARK) and Communist Party

Headquarters. During this assignment, LIENTRAP was able to cover

• the recent move of PCM Headquarters (the first information Station had

of the move) and to continue photo surveillance at the new site.

3.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, i. e...

rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct gounter-surveillances.

and apartments for other

comprehensive area

knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an

GERENDE

0004055

PARE

COLT

NO.

of

68

: 144978

---

## Page 15

by the photographic REPRODUCTION

should be continued.

C. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

As stated in previous project renewals, it can readily be noted that

Project LIEMPTY has provided support to many Station operations and in

this manner has been a contributing factor to the furtherance of the Related

Mission Directive.

The project has not produced any positive intelligence

nor has it been interded that it should do so. The project's sole purpose

• is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational information

in support of other Station operations

II. CHANGES

There have bee

past project year affe

MPTY Project during the

s or personnel.

III. EFFECTIVENESS

There has been no change in Project LIEMPTY which would alter

the validity of the remarks made in Section III of 1960 project renewal re-

quest (HMMA 15979)

Iv.

PROBLEMS

V. PLANS

The security problem in connection with the LICALLA operation,

which was described in 1960 renewal reguest

§ still present but has

caused no known difficulty. At Headguante

suggestion in HiVIVW-9736, the

LICALLA base was reactivated on=29 May 196

The base operator. con

tinues to be alert for any unusual ingidents

a might indicate that the

base has been compromisedo

The Station considers

that

the project is operating a its optimum

size and does not plan to expand it during the coming year.

Efforts will

be continued to refine and better utilize the existing project organizational

ur rangements.

As in the past, the Station will continue its citorts to

improve the compartmentation and security of the project.

G3OUP

SECRE

Excludad Iron anal!•

CanTangi

0004056

35

PAGE EL

GORY ND.

of

6 8

---

## Page 16

SET

VI®

COSTS

REPRODUCTION

Past Project Yep ROBITED

Ilnance records indicate that Project

LIEMPTY expended app

Oximately $26, 250 during Fiscal Year 1962

(1 December 1961 - 30 June 1962) and has thus far during Fiscal Year

1963 (through 30 September 1962) expended about $7, 000.00, It is

anticipated that about $8, 000. 00 will be expended during the last two

months (October and November 1962) of the project year. This will

make a total expenditure during the project year of about $43, 250, or

$6, 250.00 under the budget estimate of $49, 500.00.

B. Next Project Year - Of the total $49, 900. 00 budget, itemized below,

approximately you, suu. should be expended ting the remainder o

'iscal Year 1963 and the balance, $19, 50970

Fiscal Year 1964. Normal accountia

penditures.

ne pogedures will be used for all ex-

AGENT SALARIES

$U

(Includes Christmas bonus

A BATE!!

FY 1964

1962)

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

Louise J. MACRINO

(at $US 2.02 per hour)

LIEMPTY-4

LIEMPTY-5

(at $US 1.75 per hour)

LIEMPTY-Ó

LIEMPTY-7 (no salary)

LIEMPTY -3

LIEMPTY-9

LIEMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPTY-12

LIEMPTY-13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LIEMPTY-24 (no salary)

$ 6, 000.00

5,

500.00

500.00

2, 400.00

1, 000.00

3, 500.00

2, 200.00

3,

200.00

4, 200.00

2, 900.00

2,

SITED

SUB TOTAL

•$39

00.00

$24, 000.00

$15, 000.00

Caluded fam

myserac

1es1aaa1199.rn

0004057

36

PAGE ST

COPY NO:

68

---

## Page 17

FY 1963

FY 1964

Transportation:

MV 2284, and 2236

Real Estate:

Rent, utilities, and

maintenance safehouses

2, 000.00

#LIMITED

*LICALLA

LLLYRIC

3, 300:00

1, 700.00

1, 200.00

• Procurement of safehouses,

post office boxes, and rentin

of automobiles

Purchase of informatigu

REPRODO CTION

ten sourers, and BROTE

SUB TOTAL

$9, 700.00

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair, maintenance and pur-

chase of replacement photographic

equipment and purchase film

1, 200.00

SUB TOTAL $ 1, 200.00

GRAND TOTAL $49, 900.00

$5, 700.00

$4, 000.00

$ 700.00

$

500.00

$30, 400.00

$19; 500.00

(FY 1963)

(FY 1964):

turned to Station by LIMOUSINE

56-6-9411

Exceed co

Do 3092

0004058

8 8

PAGE

COPy NO.

of

---

## Page 18

VIL.

VIL.

EMBROINEY CONDIR RODUCTION

Emergenci

angements for Oliver G. SCANTLING and

Raymond H. GERENDE ar

sette in Headquarters (See HMMA 15982 of 23

November 1960 and HIM

15981 of 23 November 1960.) For further infor-

mation see project renewal request of 1960 forwarded by HMMA 15979.

TRAINING

No training, other than that within the competency of SCANTLING

or GERaNDE to give, is anticipate

"PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

- 18090-9,1

Excludal tam i-":

Gonegradar ie1

J"C)

6-7411

0004059

P17 38 0 68

4:25

40.

---

## Page 19

14-06001

SEGRETA

KATOK

(For

FEE RUCTION

Renewal)

COVER SHEET

CRYPTONYM

LIEMPTY

FIELD CASE OFFICER

Quinton N.

OUSLER

STATION

Mexico City

CHIEF

Willard C. CURTIS

The attached project action a Bit MEN lEu

'esented for approval for the period

1 December 1961 through 30 November 1962.

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

0.77.

00C4060

39

PAGE

COPY.

NO.

68

of

---

## Page 20

14-00000

RON REPRONOSTION

Project Kenewal

I. :

CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

"To collect operational information

pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities." SCARAt

G has continued (See the

15 Nome 95, an orade faNenter 1960) to prose

13 November 1959, and HMMA

worthwhile information

to this pete give.

ISCANTLING has continued to be

used to follow up leads

aduced by LIENVOY.

For example,

operational information

recently indicated that the LIMERICK

target was using the services of a Mexico City firm to repair

safes. Through discreet investigation SCANTLING was able to

identify the firm, its location and the name of the owner in the

event that we later wished to make an approach to him or to

exploit this information in another manner.

b.. SCANTLING is still the Station's primary source for

keeping current records on the residences of the many LIMERICK

personnel in Mexico City. This is accomplished in several ways;

the most important being SCANTLING's follow up of all LIENVOY

leads which indicate the LIMERICK &

Ble are interested in

renting a given piece of property

revious project renewal

request for additional deta lal

of opportunity, foreign of

interest operating in Mexi

information on other Station

pertaining to other targets

del personnel of intelligence

G is very useful for collecting

-179:5

0004061

40

68

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 21

14-00000

(

SECRET/KAR

-2-

a. On the basis of a request to the Station from the

ODACID Chief, SCANTLING was sent to Puebla to be an

eyewitness to the 4 June 1961 Catholic inspired anti-CASTRO

demonstrations.' Not only did SCANTLING obtain the desired

information, and samples of many of the leaflets used, but he

prepared his report for the Station in time for the COS to give

Ze ODACID Chief a briefing at 1000 hrs., 5 june 1901.

SCANTLING does an excellent job on this type of assignment

due principally to his ability to observe and report objectively.

b. SCANTLING was instrumental in establishing that

Fernando LLANES Cavero and his wife were living at a local

Mexico City address.

This case has been of considerable

counterespionage interest to Headquarters.

SCANTLING has continued his contributions to the

Paul Frederick KIRSCHHOFF case by periodic interviews with

the subject's neighbors and associates.

"To exploit operational leads through recruitments, debriefings,

and surveillances.

" SCANTLING has contributed to this objective both

directly and indirectly as will be noted by the examples listed below:

a. SCANTLING devoted a lot of time to the

surveillance and attempted recruitment of

Mexican national employed at the Cuban Embassy. SCANTLING

several times and undoubredly was

primarily responsible for the later success of the recruitment

made by anotier Station agent.

b. Some additional time vas devoted to the Cesar

GONZALEZ Sanchez case in February 1961 when SCANTLING

determined that CONZALEZ was still in Mexico City. See

the last renewal for additional decaiis on this case.

c. In connection with the above objective SCANTLING

has performed numerous pretext ind neighborhood invescigations

for the Scation, SCANTLING also does most of the local

investigations requested by ODACID and other ODYOKE

SECRET/US

0004062

41

CiX NO.

---

## Page 22

is field unless in:

REPRODEOTION

PROHIBITED

d. SCANTLING spent six weeks during July and

August of this year giving tradecraft and surveillance

training to LIPAILS 5 and 7 from Monterrey. Although

this is not a direct contribution to the above objective, it

is considered sufficiently related to mention here.

In addition to his contributions to the above objectives,

SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support requirements from the

Station, For example, SCANTLING is now handling LIEMBROIL-2 and

will continue to do so until the return of LIMOTOR-14 in June 1962. Also,

during the past project year; SCANTLING handled the LIRICE survelllance

ream until July 1901 when Simon D. CLACKER

(ps) returned to Mexico

City. SCANTLING is also used to

for other Station operations

And fe

sare houses and apartments

ing bequestator Project Renewal,

although SCANTLING's

fulftlled, it is the Station's op

MAP objatives can never be completely

'SCANTLING has made important and

valuable contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically and to

other Station activities in general. SCANTLING's production, measured

against monetary expenditures, case officer time and other intangible factors,

unquestionably justifies his continuation as an integral part of Project

LIEMPTY.

B.

Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses. "

Three photographic bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute

To avoid. repetition, the Station is omitting the usual

description of the functions of these three bases and how they contribute

to the apove objective. here has been noc

ge in the coverage as

described in the 1960 Request for Prpiect

2.

"To collect opera

leads pertaining to Stations

operation, handled by aBRE

and identify operational

" The LIENTRAP

e major contributor to this

phil

SECRET 0

0004063

PAGE

10188

NO.

---

## Page 23

SHORI

-4-

REPRODUCTION

IL.

months, on a fulltime basis,

several weeks the entire "take" from the LIERODE target was recorded

from the LIENTRAP vehicle. Later, the LIENTRAP agents operated the

LIERODE technical gear from the initial LIERODE stationary base.

3.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, i.e.

rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances.

GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for other

Station operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive area

knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an

extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities.

GERENDE

• also procures and services post office box lett

en drops for the many

Station operations requiring them.

4. The quality and

(operational information produced

by the photographic bases

other activites

under GERENDE's control

and supervision is considered worth

Jae Station concludes, therefore,

that this segment of the LIEN Usiest should be continued.

C. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

• As stated in the previous project renewal, it can readily be noted

that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to many Station operations and

in this manner has been a contributing factor to the furthereance of the

Related Mission Directive. The project has not produced any positive

intelligence nor has it been intended that it should do so.

The project's sole

purpose is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational

information in support of other Station operations.

CHANGES

surveillance team in July 1961

засурпался

Project during the past project

LIRICE (formerly LIJERSEY)

Is plans.

SECRET,

0004064

€ 8

TACK

of

---

## Page 24

-5-

III. EFFECTIVENESS

IV. PROBLEMS

The security problem in connection with the LICALLA operation, which

was described in last year's renewal request, is still present but has not caused

any known difficulty. At Headquarters suggestion in HMMW-9736, the LICALLA

base was reactivated on 29 May 1961.

The base operator has been cautioned to be

ever alert for any unusual incidents which might indicate that the base has been

compromised. This is the only problem experienced by the LIEMPTY Project

düring the past project year.

V.

PLANS

The Station considers that the proreat

now operating at its optimum size

and does not plan to expand it during the coming sea

Rather, efforts will be

devoted to refining and betteg us

arrangements.

15E project organizational

VI.

COSTS

A.

Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project LIEMPTY

expended $21, 458.00 during Fiscal Year 1961 (1 December 1960 - 30 June 1961) and

has thus far during Fiscal Yeàr 1962 (through 30 September 1961) expended about

$11,000.00. It is anticipated that about $8, 000. 00 will be expended during the last

two months (October and November 1961) of the project year.

This will make a

total expenditure during the project year of about $40, 500.00, or some $12, 500.00

under the budget estimate of $53, 000. 00.

asedures wil be used for all deale

ROHIBITED

0004065

of 6 8

---

## Page 25

AGENT

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G, SCANTLING

Louise . MACRINO

(@ $2.02 per hour)

LIEMPTY- 4

LIEMPTY-5

(@ $1. 75 per hour)

LIEMPTY-6

LIEMPTY-7• (No Salary)

LIEMPTY- 8

LIEMPTY -9

LIEMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPTY-12

LIEMPTY-13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LIEMPTY-24 (No Salary)

Christmas Bonuses 1961

-6-

REPRODUCTION

RED ENNUM

PRT: 320.00

5, 000.00

1, 500.00

2, 200.00

1, 000.00

3, 000.00

-O-

2, 000.00

3, 000

00

3,900

2

800

001

000

1580

. 00

SUB-

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV-2279, 2284 and

2286.

Procurement of Safehouses, post

office boxes and renting

automobiles.

Purchase of information,

identification documents, and

bribes.

$ 2,000.00

1, 000.00

1.00

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair, maintenance and

of replacement photogra

equipment.

SUB-TOTA

DAN

PROHIBITED

1, 000. 00

6s 3.

$

39, 500, 00

3, 500.00

1, 000.00

0004366

68

TECH

---

## Page 26

14-J000:

REPHODMETION

PROMBITED

REAL ESTATE

Rent, utilities and maintenance

of following safehouses:

*LIMITED

*LICALA

LILYRIC

$

3, 000. 00

1, 500.00

1, 000.00

SUB-TOTAL

VD TOTAL

5, 500. 00

$ 49,500.00

garmed to the Station by LIMOUSINE and

credited to Station miscellanedi

VIL.

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

Please refer to last year's request for project renewal and HMIMA-15982,

23 November 1960, and HMIMA-15981, 23 November 1960.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

23P1

Frid

0664067

of

. 6 8

---

## Page 27

SEGRET /

REVIEW OF

(For

DO RE RUBICION

CRYPTONYM

LIEVPTY

FIELD CASE

OUSLEI

STATION

Nexico City

CHIEF OF STATION

The attached project

"period 1 December 1960

action

REEDEDUCTION

for approval for the

ember

" PROHIBITED.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

15919

IS GORY

0004668

4E?

01 -

08

---

## Page 28

REVIEW

OF

(For the Purp

EMPTY

Renewal)

CURRENT OBJECTIVE

Ãio

• Oliver Gi

to yet one mont (aloused ta calation

1.

"To collect operational information per-.

taining to LIMERICK personnel and physical

facilities."

SCANILING has continued (See the

last Project Review. forwarded as an attachment

tO EMA- 14095,

13 November. 1959)

to provide

worthwhile and

significant information per

taining to the

above objective.

There

follow

a Lew

examples of SCANTLING's production:

" A detailed casing

electrical power supi

to Headquarters aglar

LIMERICK

forwarded

SCANTLING has been used frequently

to follow up leads produced by LIFEAT/

LIMERICK now produced by LIENVOY).

For

example,

In May 1960, LIFEAT indicated

that the LIVERICK target was having con-

siderable contact with an AGENCIA ROBLES

concerning the handling of incoming and

outgoing shipments. By discreet investi

gation,

SCANTLING was able to provide the

Station with additional pertinent information

about the address,

owner and type of business

engaged

In by

the

Such information

then.

becomes

readily available for exploitation

should

a LIVERICK shipment of

verticular

Interest come to the attentior

mthe station.

SCANTLING is the

personnel.

the coun

tain

information

(eS COPY

DIMERICI

swandpoint to 1a1r

the becation of al

50-6-711/;

0004C63

PAGE

COPY NO:

.68

---

## Page 29

necessity

that

a TIMERICK

individual may initially be

considering as a residence.

"ro collect operational information pertaining to

foreign official installa-

Tions and

As indicated below, SCANTLING is also

extremely

useful for collecting information on targets

other than LIMERICK:

In March 1960

LITABBY

graphic

SCANTLING

and pretext investi

sations of the several pieces of property

appropriate for such operations.

SCANTLING is also used to follow up

sensitive leads in connection with

and IIENVOY production from LITABBY and

sister targets (See example as to type

under I,A,t, b and c above).

SCANTLING was used as an investigative

esset to determine the local address and

exact employment of Gordon William GRoves

201-220025), a counterespionage case o:

interest to

Headguarters and ODENVY.

"To exploit operational leads through recruitments

debriefings, and surveillances."

As examples oi

SCANTLING's contribution to this objective, the

following cases

are listed:

SCANTLING devoted a coresderable amount

of time

to his

attemptsuto locate Cesar

agent of & con-

munist Country®

On GONZALEZ from Mages

various laads

gust 1950 before

0004570

0 38

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 30

стат

come come

GONZALEZ was finally dentified and his

Mexico City home a a busthess

addresses

ascertained.. Sèe HYMA-15626, 9 September I960,

for further details on this case.

the preliminary investigative work

KUSODA, case of prigrity Interest was

conducted

During this investigation it

obtain the information required by Headquarters.

See the attachments to HNMT-1416,

20 May 1960 g

for the results of the investigation.

In addition to his contributions to the above objec

SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support

requirements of the Station.

For example

SCANTLING

handled several of Raymond H. GERENDE'S (ps) operations

while the latter was

away from Mexico City during August

and September 1960.

Also, SCANTLING has been managing

the LIJERSEY surveillance team since the departure of

Simon D. CLACKETT in August 1960. It is hoped that

SCANTLING Can

be relieved of this

assignment as soon

the LItENPo project is approved

SCANTLING has also

been used to

spot and rent safe houses for various

Station operations; a

service.

As stated in the wreceeding Request for Project

Renewal,

al though SCANTLING's

ILEIPTY Project objectives

completely fulfilled, it is the Station's

opinion that SCANTLING has made important and valuable

contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically

other Station activities in general.

SCAN TLING 'S

production,

measured against monetary expenditures,

officer time and other intangible factors, unques

zonably justillas his continuation as an integral par

I Project LIEUPTY.

Raymond H. GERINDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

.!"

"To collect oparational information vertaining to

TIMERICK personneL ant physical faa irie through us:

TIVERICK target,

& LIMITED - This base compiles daily logs

Indicating

alL arrivals

derertures and,

where possible,

identities

every person

visiting of working at the LIMRICK target.

0004071

10 S

PAGE

0n57 10.

---

## Page 31

4=00001)

SECRET pat

- 4-

This information is particularly usetyl in keeping track of

LIMERICK personnel and assisting with the identification of

risitors to the installatio

¡Also, LIMITED maintains a

summary attendance list of LIMERICK employees on a dail

basis; this enables the Station quickly to ascertain the

presence or absence of an employee on any given day.

finally, one other significant service is performed by this

base, the radio dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance

team on LIMERICK personnel and targets of opportunity.

LIMITED's photographic coverage is still concentrated on

visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK

installation. A recent example of the base's contributions to

Station efforts is the case of Joseph Ralph MAURI. In this

case, a LIENVOY lead indicated that an American might visit

he LIMERICK target on a certain day.

to disparch the radio- controlled suryeillance team on any tec

person appearing to be an American:

The results of this

assignment were indicated In MEXI-6392 and several other

cables. LIMITED was also able to provide photographs,

which when compared with photographs provided by Head-

quarters, left no question as to MAURI'S identity.

b. LILYRIC - This base's output of high-quality clandestine

photographs has been in about the same quantity as last year.

In addition, the base operator, LEMPTY-I, prepares weekly

reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives.

LILYRIC

also performs the assignment of noting and reporting the

license plate numbers of all cars bringing visitors to the

LIVERICK installation. LILYRIC photographs also are con-

centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed to employees.

It should be noted that LILYRIC operates for photographic

coverage during the hours from daylight to 1400 lours each

day of the week except Sunday. The LIMITED buse maintains

photographic coverage from 1400 hours to darkness each day

except Sunday.

c. LICALLA - As reported in previous correspondence, the

LICALLA base contributes to the collection of operational

information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK

employees and their families.

Also, the base operator,

0004072

PAGE

COPY NO.

a 0f 1 8

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SE

- 5-

LIEMPTY-9, supplies extremely worthwhile information

pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target

employees. He accomplishes this objective by careful

observation and analysis. LICAlLA also maintains a daily

atrendance roster-of all LIVERICK employees. LICALLA

coverage of the target, both photographic and physical

observations, Lenables the Station to keep abrest of LIMERICK

personnel changes

espionage effortiffvical .contribution to the Station's counter-

2. "To collect operational information and identity operational leads

pertaining to Station targets of opportunity.

The LIENTRAP operation,

handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective. It

has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform

pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities. The

cases listed below are cited as examples:

a. In the case of Cesar GONZALEZ Sanchez (see I, A, 3, a, above)

LIENTRAP was able to procure photographs of CONZALEZ at his

Mexico City residence which, Wher compared to Headquarters

provided photographs, left no doub that GONZALEZ was the

subject of interest to Headquärters.

b. LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon,

a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent

supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext

nvestigation of the residents of an apart ment building where

CASTILLO was believed to live. Later, LIENTRAP supported the

results of the investigation with excellent photographs of the

subject.

'To provide operational support to Station operations, i.e., ront

Horel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances.

SERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for

Diner Station operatlons and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive

area knowledge and personal operational gepabilities combine to make

him an extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities.

CaReNDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many

starion operations requiring them. Al

_ ..

OCU:.73

PACE

605•

20.

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET/KARO

-6-

4. It is the Station's conclusion that the money and case officer time

expended on this segment of the LIEMPTY project is worthwhile and

should be continued in view of the quality and quantity of operational

information produced

C. Simon D. CLACKETT Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

pertaining to the LIMERICK target and Station targets of opportunity."

During this project year the LIJERSEY surveillance team under the

direction of CLACKETT began contributing to the Station's support

efforts through pretext investigations and physical surveillances.

Some

examples of the team's work are listed below :

a.

(201-64372) is a Guatemalan

Communist which the team had under surveillance from

November 1959 tQ April 1960. The surveillance, together

with information acquired from other sources, eventually

resulted in an unsuccessful recruitment attempt onl

Dominican of interest to the Station. The LIJERSEY team

devoted portions of five months, January to May 1960, collecting

intormation on subject through physical surveillance.

(201- was the

subject of a physical surveillance during May and June 1960.

Jwas later deported from Mexico through the efforts

Of LITEMPO-2.

d. CLACKETT and the LIJERSEY team performed numerous

pretext investigations on Station targets of opportunity and on

three separate occasions during che project year served as

a counter-surveillance escort for Station officers in other

operations,

2. CLACKETT, just prior to his resignation in August 1960, spent

about five weeks giving tradecraft und operational skills training to

LIft-l. Although not specifically covered by the project objectives,

this ability on CLACKETT's part is considered a significant con-

tribution to the Station's support enörts.

0004074

6 8

PATE

---

## Page 34

14-00000

IL.

SECKETA

-7-

3. In view of CLACKETT's resignation, which was eftective 31

August 1960, and the proposed transten of the LIfERSEY team to

the LITEMPO project, this segment of the LIEMPTY project will

were justified.

D. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

It can readily be noted that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to

many Station operations and in this manner has been a contributing factor

to the furtherance of the Related Mission Directive.

The project has not

produced any positive intelligence nor has it been intended that it should

do so. The project's sole purpose is to provide a mechanism for the

development of operational information in support of other Station

operations.

CHANGES

A. Simon D, CLACKETT

The unexpected resignation of CLACKETT in August 1960 has

necessitated the decision as how best to utilize the LIJERSEY surveillance

team and still benefit.from the training and experience gained by the team

during the past year. As explained in the LITeMPO project outline,

decided that the LITEMPO Staff Agent would have the time, the need and the

requirements to handle and manage the LIJERSEY team on a regular basis;

consequently, the Station believed that such a solution to this problem vould

permit the Station to continue to profit from CLACKETT's past etforts.

B. Oliver G. SCANTLING

Since CLACKETT's departure, SCANTLING has been handling the

1.UERSE'Y team as an interim ineasure pending Headquarters aporovni t

the LITEMPO project, SCANTLING has been exposed to, and likewise

knows, only one of the team members, LIENPTY-20. SCANTLING is

Known to L-20 only by an alias.

SECRET MAN

0004075

---

## Page 35

III,

SECRET A

- 8-

C. Personnel Changes

1. LIEMPTY-15 - Member of the, LITERSEY surveillance team -

• Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-2.

LEMPT to Member of the MERSEy surveillance team -

Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-3.

3. LIEIMPTY-20 - Assistant Team Leader of LIJERSEY surveillance

team - Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-1.

*, LIEMPTY-25 - Most recent addition to the LITERSEY surveillance

team.

Iransferred to Project LITEMPOland cryptonym changed to

LITED-4.

5. There have been no other personnel changes within the LIEMPTY

project, excepting the resignations,of Simon D. CLACKETT and

Wima J. FIORDSL

EFFECTIVENESS

A.

General comments pertaining to the value of the project efforts to the

Station's needs - The Station is of the opinion that its operations are only

as good as the support mechanisms backstopping and contributing to them.

The avalability of unilateral support agents and organizations, such as

the LIEMPTY Project, to investigate leads and to collect operational

information is an indispensable ingredient to the Station's espionage and

counterespionage objectives. The Station would be seriously handicapped

in its operational activities should the support services of such agents as

GERENDE, SCANTLING and the gents under their control be suddenly

made unavailable.

B. LIMERICK Target - The basis for most of the Station's counter-.

espionage activities directed against the LIVERICK target require detailed

knowledge of the identity, activities and fellow associates of LIMERICK

personnel, The LIKMPTY phocographic basehouses undoubtedly provide

more of this type information than any other Station operation.

The

production from LIEMPTY photographic bases and irom the LIENVOY

project provide the Sration win the large majority of LIMERICK leads.

ECRE

0004676

÷ 8

---

## Page 36

IV.

V.

-9-

C. Targets of Opportunity - The immediate availability of independent

assets to perform investigations, photographic assignments and othe

essential types of support services in connection with Station targets of

advantage which this Station considers

sent to distant areas in'Mexico to do investigations, that photographs can

be made of individuals and places which are of operational interest and

apartments and hotel rooms can be acquired in fictitious names in

support of sensitive operations and activities.

D. Although the progress and success of any support project depends

upon requirements from other Station operations, it must be concluded

that Project LIEMPTY has indeed been effective during the past project

year.

PROBLEMS

A. Security - The activities of the LICALLA base were suspended in

September 1960 as a direct result of the arrest of three KURIOT

technicians by the Cuban Government. One of the technicians was known

to have knowledge of the four LIMUST units (LICALLA is located in one

of these units) and the Station considered it appropriate to suspend photo-

graphic operations pending resolution of the situation. At this time,

there is no indication when LICALLA operations will be resumed.

LICALLA base operator has reported that there have been no unusual

inquiries or other suspicious actions which might indicate that LICALLA

has been compomised to LIMERICK personnel; however, such a

possibility will exist until the release of the three technicians. No

other security problems have occurred during the past year.

PLANS

A. Processing of Photographs - During the past year consideraole

progress has been made in the Station's handling,

i,e., sorting,

indexing,

identifying leads and filing, of photographs produced by the several hases.

Photographic Techniques - The previous LIEMPTY Project Rerewal

Request indicated that the Station planned to try new techniques using

HY-PAN film in night photography.

HY-PAiN film was used on a trial

basis during daylight hours with poor restle

Almost invariably, prints

SPAI

0004377

0 8

of

---

## Page 37

VI.

200TC

from HY-PAN negatives were too grainy and, consequently, were of

little use in producing goodfidentified shots|of ndividuals.

of these experiments,

fight photography has not yet been attempted.

It should be noted that Eastman Kodak's new TRI-X PAN film, which

all-bases and LIENTRAP now use, is superior to any film previously

used by the Station for clandestine photography. The quality of all

base photographs have been increased considerably as a direct result

of this new film.

C. General Comments - The Station believes that the GERENDE

segment is now operating under optimum organizational arrangments

and there are no plans for expansion contemplated at this time. It is

expected that SCANTLING will soon be relieved of his interim

responsibility for the LIJERSEY team and can concentrate more on his

investigative and casing activities. The transfer of the LIJERSEY team

to Project LITEMPO reduced Project Level activities by an

appreciable amount. It is not planned, during the coming year, to

expand present LIEMPTY activities.

COSTS

A. Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project

LIEMPTY expended $19, 120. g during Fiscal Year 1900 (L December

1959 - 30 June 1960) and has thus far during Fiscal Year yol (througn

31 October 1960) expended $16, 734. 69. Contract Agents salaries and

allowances paid by Headquarters bring the total expenditures for 11

months of the project year to approximately $50, 000.00.

An additional

$4, 000. 00 will be obligated during the l2th month of the project year.

This will bring total project expenditures to about $54, 000. 00 for the

entire project year.

B.

Ensuing Period - Of the total $53, 000. 00 budget, itemized below,

$31, 900. 00 snould be expended during the remainder of fiscal Year

1961 and the balance, $21, 100. 00, should be expended curing Fiscal

Year 1962.

Normal accounting procedures wilbe used for all

expenditures.

0004078

PAGE

Gir"

of

---

## Page 38

SECRET/SAROR

-11-

LIEMPTY-4•4 - 9/872

LIEMPTY-5 2-55452

@ ph l5 per nour

LIEMPTY-6 2-2÷841

LIEMPTY-T No Salary 4- 380%3-

LIEMPTY-8

C-34074

LIEMPTY-9

2-55499

LIEMPTY-10 C-5545

LIEMPTY-11

0-441-4359

LIEMPTY-12

C-36226

LIEMPTY-13

C-46:+3

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19 c-7÷574

LIEMPTY-24 No Salary c-P012

Christmas bonuses all personnel

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV - 2279, 2284

and 2286.

Operational Travel

Procurement of Safehouses, post

sifice boxes and renting

Purchase of informarion,

identitication documents, and

2, 000.00

1, 500.00

2, 800.00

-0=

1, 800.00

2, 800.00

3, 600. 00

2, 500.00

1, 800. 00.

-, 800: 00/1

1, 80010001:

1,000.00g

2, 500 bati

$ 38, 000.00

$ 2,000.00

500.00

2, 000.00

2, 500.00

SUB- TOTAL

$.

:7,000.00

•SE

0004073

RAGE

tor!

58 01 68

----

---

## Page 39

SPENT ASHORE

-12-

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair and maintenanceof

camera equipment.

Purchase of replacement

photographic equipment and

supplies.

SUB-TOTAL

2,500.00

REAL ESTATE

Rent, utilities and maintenance

of following safehouses:

"LIMITED

*LICALLA

LILYRIC

3, 000. 00 C

1, 500.000

11, 000.00

SUB-TOTAL

5, 500.00

GRAND. TOTAL

$53,000.00

*LIVITED and LICALLA rents are returned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and

credited to Station miscellaneous receipts.

VII,

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

As regards the requirement listed in CSI-F No. 230-60, Aunex A, for

communications arrangments in the event of "Emergency Conditions."

the Station does not anticipate that this project would or could continue

However, both principal

agents, SCANTLING and CERENDE, would very possibly be worthvile

sources of information to maintain contact with under any adverse

conditions. Both of these agents identify thenselts, in terms of

ideology, motivation and perspective, more as Americans than as

Mexican nationals (which they are), It is reasonable to assume, there-

tany emergency stration GERBNDE would become valuable contacts

NE CRI

0004080

Prat

---

## Page 40

SECR

The Station is aware that the previous project renewal stated that

The

'addresses of relatives through

whom GERENDE and SCANTLING could be contacted under most

situations. This information will be forwarded separately.

S.:...

0004081

60

---

## Page 41

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO

Chief, VH Division

INFO.

xX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief of STation, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Project LIMPTY Progress Report/ebruary,

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

March and Aoril 1964

Action Regured: For your Information:

Reference

:

A.

HIMA- 22944) 2o rebruary 1964

B.

HMMA-14793

MICROFILIA

I. BACKGROUND.

The LIEVPTI Project 15 designed to collect operational information on the

LNERICK installation and personnel, as well as targets of opportunity, through

stationary and mobile photographic coverage.

In addition, the project provides

the means for lavestigating leads from the

above noted coverages as well as other

Station sources.

LIEMPTY supports other Station operations through the renting of

safehouses, providing and servicing post ofiice vox letter drops, conducting counter

surveillances and investigations and performing related tasks.

2. OPERATIONS - REVIEW.

The station feels that it vould be helpful to summarize at this time information

previously reported to Headquarters (see paragraph) 3, reference B) concerning the

photo basehouses under this project and thereby give Headquarters an updated frame

The LIMED end LINIC basehouses prode caverage of tront of the LitERICK

Installation.. Although on the surface it; may appear that these to basehouses

provide duplicate take, this is not the ogse.

It has been the Station's experience

in running the unilateral LIMRIY operation that a 0900 to evening workday, which

would be required of a single basehouse in order to cover the LIMERICK target

effectively, is just too long for any pair of agents to remain effective.

This is

especially true when it is considered that these basehouse operators are essentially

unsupervised during their workday.

It would also be impossible for a single base-

house to provide the kind of coverage the Station needs on the target installation,

especially during the peak hours of activity, namely Inte momins and early aftemoon.

(continued...)

Distribution:

<3 C/ED

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMARCL AND MINEER

22M4-23343

CLASSIFICATIO)

1:2413

1230 April 1964

'HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-743 0004082

lel

o1 BE

17673

---

## Page 42

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SEATIT

DISPATCH SYMOUI AND NU

FIMMA-23343

For these reasons,

the LILYRIC basehouse generally operates from 0900 to 1400 or 1500

vectates) on weekdays, and 0900 to 1400 coy saturder s

LIMIIED operates from 1200 to 1800 or dark (as the daily situation

(These hours are subject to

change to fit Station needs.) Special coverage for Sunday is arranged on a need

basis; however, past experience has shown regular coverage of Saturday afternoons

and sundays is not rewarding.

Inis schedule provides for both basehouses to be ir

aotion during the peak activity hours of the DIVERICK target.

Although even this

arrangement is not completely airtight, anything less than this would present unaccept-

able saps in the coverage.

It must also be, 'considered that without two basehouses cover

ing the front of the target installation; any illness, personal problem or vacation for

operators of one basehouse would terminate station coverage,

un lateral survelllance team tolstakeout the LIMERICK installation when assigned to

coverage of members of the LIMERICK staff.

LIMITED operator radio dispatches the

team onto target personnel giving diroction, means of travel and description of dress

This permits the team to commence its surveillance a number of

blocks from the LINERICK Installation and beyond the protective ring of the local

which would otherwise be impossible or extremely risky.

The third besehouse, LICATTA, provides coverage of the back of the LIMERICK

installation and the garden area.

This coverage is the real "vindow" the Station has

into the LIVERICk target and provides a large part of the information on which

Station bases its identifications of LIMERICK staffers and Its estimates of staffing,

personnel positions and Intelligence connections of the LIMERICK personnel.

Its position, LICATA 1s also able to provide inforation on the LIMERICK installation

which is of LAURICLE interest.

It Is the Station's opinion that as long as the LIMERICK Installation is a prime

target of the Station,

it will be necessary to, maintain the present three basehouses:

Io eliminate any one of the three would create a gap in the Station's coverage that

would not be compatible with the ohese placed on this target by the lat he pand

the Station's responsibilities under this RuD.

I anyone sent,

3. OPBRATIONS - CURRENT

In the past it has been stated that the LIMPrY operation provides the majority

of potographs used by the Station in its CE operations against™

the LIMERICK target.

This is still true and will remain so for the foreseeable future.

The station, and

particularly that section concerned with the LIMERICK target, has alays considered

the LIMPTY photo take an essential tool in folloving the daily activities of the

persornel of the target instellation and visitors to that installation.

the nost interesting individuals in both these categories are those of intelligence

Among these have been a number of PBPRIE citizens.

For those interested

in statistics, iMPIy take for the reporting perlod included approximately 235 rolls

of cerational protos,

205 of which were directly corcerned with the TiMERICK target.

In addision,

the daily logs apt by the basenouses

on the comings and goings of the

LERK stair members

and risitors have greatly rided the stations CP eiforts,

especially in crisis times auch as the CPFLCOR acCuiT.

E: the area of specifle support to the Station's.

above, nd support to other station operations,

Cliprogram (in addition to

Janing is a list of selected

ITEr! contributions in this area.

ITEMPTY support to the MROD peration contimids to ba

The contributions made by the tito cutouts,

during the reporting period can be

Only beceuse GERENDE

levied on the Station has the flation ben able to contribute fully to

00C4083

Oliver C. SCANTIDiG continues in his assignment as

cutout in the LIMITED

phese of the LIDPTY operation and alternate contact of LICASA-I in a

sensitive operation of LAURICLE interest.

Due to the fact diat SCANILING's

wife died during the reporting period or the resulting visits of

TESTATE

12.97 23300

1:3.

119K

LX CONLEO

6Đ

---

## Page 43

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

YASSFILAION

SECRET

I SYMBUL AND NO.

HNMA-23343

do

relatives and legal details to be settled, SCANTLING's miscellaneous

operational activity was somewhat curtailed. However, SCANILING dia

find time to take on the servicing of a post office box mail drop for

the sensitive ANIMPULSE operation and complete two pretexi investisations.

GERENDS continued his assignments las cutout to LICALIA and LILYRIC basehouses

and LIMITRAP truck:

In adaition GRINDE obtained a sale apartment for use

of the LIKAYAK Case Officer and performed an investigation at the Instituto

Cultural Español Mexicano at the behest of the COs.

GERINDE and LIEMPTY-10

continued to brovide frequent servicing of P. O. Box mall drops used

perationally by Mexiea City Station as well as other stations.

special assignments varul

given the project basehouses concerning & matter

of LAURICLE interest and the arrival and activities of two LIFRICK IDY

Full reports were prepared and

supplied to the interested Station

officers in these cases. The project assets have also been alerted to

provide immediate reporting on a special case involving a PBPRIME citizen

which is of interest to ODENVY and KUBARK.

During the recent visit to

Mexico of an individual of ODIBEX interest, the project assets were alerted

and supplied special weekend coverage of the LIMERICK staffer who was known

to have contacted the Individual of interest to ODIBEX.

During the reporting period the operational use oî LINIRA? contimued to

This use has been primarily in the coverage of PCM and exile

Communists residing in Mexico®

3. SECURITY.

ruary 1964 while returning

an operational assigment.

ration es tale dent on the rent stat eye un for

had run a red light causing LINDA? to tund over on its left side.

operational equipment is not permanently mounted (In DIENIRAP, and is carried in a

small case while moving from assignment to assignment, all equipment as readily

evacuated. by IIEMPIY-10 while the driver, LTEMPIY-1l, and bystanders rightei

LIENTRAP.

The taxi fled the scene and LIENIRAP was able to move off under its

own power. Darage to the right sidel

and broken windshield resulted from the accident.

No security problens resulted and LTENIRAP was back in operation in a week.

A survey was conducted among the agents under this project to determine is they

renembered their recontact instructions and verbal recognition signals.

learned that most had forgotten at least part of the plan. New contact pling are

being formulated and current pictures of all agents have been obtained to facilitate

It is slanned to review the recontact instructions with the agents

periodically once the new plan is voriced out.

4 EQUIPMAT.

lio major squipment problens other than the LIDaRA? nccident noted under

"SECURITY"

sove were experienced luring this perio!.

in February the LiliarD camera

requireil acgustment of the shutter and trip spring.

5. 232500N3L.

The «antion has been making a review of its pershinel needs under this

project in order to determine where economies could Oil castituted without causins

gops in sperational coverage or lucrease in securt bj

sificiency

determine? inat LIENPTY-12 con he feminated under ta, uhove conditions ari?

LIDom-ó a well. It 1s platropertece these berndituions as of 1 juli tra

also is jeen dotermined that prive 1 July LIDDrY i2 N121 be placel co en

raie tor ork perfored for the

0004084

is fining other than curior covier of tradaimi

102000.30"

Ph0b0s.0018

ned is redeed L

beinciples (to

158.

sbeard i reedure, ail action conto are instructal t necessary to ingrors a

enact vile technique in bout sing and pirate

is product,

-HAT CABA

la3

105 5.30

... ' /

---

## Page 44

DISPATCH

TO : Chief, WH Division

INFO

CLASSIFICATION

SEGRET/ 5485K

DISPATCH SYMaOL AND NO

HMMA -14793

46-1762

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

50-6-74/1

FROM

Chiet of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

- LIEMPTY Project Renewal Comments

DATE

RECORDS 05278 April 1960

The tollorind

REF'AS SHUF CHECK "X" ONE)

- LOMARKED FOR INDEXING

- None, for Headquarters information only 5001: 5812204222

REFERENCE(S)

HMMW-8515, 25 February 1960

•R.0. R.0. - CHe

- "Note.

li spotruction, cito.

Kant would appegie from paragrapha 2a and 2b of reference that

KUDESK and KUTUBE Ops have not been completely informed of the back-

ground of the LIEMPTY Projectand its agent requirements. At the time

HIMMA-14093 (Request for Renewal of Project LIEMPTY) was written, it

was assumed that the Mexico Desk and KUTUBE/D could answer any additional

questions, based on reports and dispatches not normally available to the

senior staffs, which might be raised during the renewal process.

2. In answer to paragraph 2a, Oliver G. SCANTLING first contacted

Inez PARADÀ de Moreno in early 1957 to fulfill a KUTUBE/D requirement.

He visited her as an architect interested in viewing the LIMERICK installation

from the building where she lives.

He was socially acquainted with her brother,

, a Catholic Priest, and knew the family to be unquestionably anti-Communist.

However, it would be imprudent on the Station's and SCANTLING's part to

assume that PARADA does not at least suspect that some anti-LIMERICK

intelligence service is involved. PARADA suggested during SCANTLING's

initial visit that he could return at any time for further observations. This

was reported by SCANTLING on 2l March 1957 and it does not seem appropriate

to query him again on the pretext for his recënt visits.

LICALLA as "photographic basehouses, " the Station would like to emphasize

that photographic coverage is only one of their functions (please see HMMA-12095,

4 February 1959). LIMITED is used as a radio dispatch base for automobile

surveillance teams in addition to physical surveillance of persons entering

the front gate.

Their photography is negligible compared to their other duties.

The LILYRIC base performs the best photography of persons visiting the front

gate, perhaps because the vantage point for taking the pictures is from the

second floor and above the street trattic which partially blocka LIMITED

photographs. LILYRIC also does individual reports on LiMERICK personnel

entering and leaving the main gate. LICALLA is used almost exclusively to

identify LIMERICK officials and to support KUTUBE/D requirements in

connection with the LIMESA/LIVIUST Project. As ap indicacion of the ettect-

iveness of LICALLA photographic coverage thê Mexico Station has all the

LIMERICK otficials identified. Before hts base was activated more than two-

thirds of the LIMERICK officials were unidentified. In order to support other

operations, it is considered essential that the Station identity all LIMERICK

oificials. In this respect, LICALLA hasiprovided host of the necessary intor-

The retention of this bagg a o considered vital to the securiry of

the LIMUST portion of the LIMeSA

The Station does not agree that the color photography and moving

pictures are a luxury.

Color slides were made for identification purposes

and have proved useful, particularly in identitying facial features and skin

coloring. The motion pictures were made at Headquarters suggestion (Please

see HMMWW-7687, 29 May 1959 and HIVIVIW-8438, 26 January 1950).

0004085

176.72

68

958 53

Car CiON

SECRETIN

S ANY

---

## Page 45

14-JOOUw

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATICN

SEGNET/10

Полн сумо

AMMA- 1479:

22K-1762

5. In conclusion, the Station would like to point out that the "photo-

graphic basehouses" represent an integral and significant part of the Station's

counterespionage effort against the LIMERICK installation.

not produce Foreign Intelligence and should not be considered in such a light.

PR

6 April 1960

Distribution:

3 - WHD

2 - Files

REPRODICTION

GIBITED

0004306

1* 530

65.

i 58

67.

---

## Page 46

14-00000

TUESDAY 1th OCTOBER 1983

Coverage: 900 to 1900

LOg Film 144

20 Eaxp

1 1251 2URM platican con KAl ex el jardin

20 ll el a l i in de repress eve in

Weather 1/100

Ju Camera Setting 3.5-2.5'

WEDNESDAY, 2 OCTOBER 1963Ü-

3 1,139 ANOV

out UNW

Coverage: 900

por Tacubaya-Despide DEN-en Chev

375

4000 TO 1 89 80 NO D9 80 18 99 10 19

0 • M 8 M M M M M M M M l 0 10 10 10

5 1150

UM H

6 1205 LEON

out a Norte por Tacubaya en Ford37 verde (entr81141)

in 2URY de Oriente por Chicontepec de Falcoa

71033 DF

372

COMMON ONE!! MOM! GO 8 ! ! M M M D M O ! ! ! 0 09 09 09 19 89 09 19 10 00

8 1216 UMM

in

de Sur por Tacubaya de camioneta Chev(sal161218)

52137 DF

9 1216 UA"

in

de Sur por Tacubaya

10

2 i in 62

A1 1222 U 1 M;

out a Norte poxf f'acubaya"

13 1 00 88 89 19 99 18 19 09 19 19

14 1243 VAZQUEZ

out a Norte

ID

por

Tacubaya

15 " " * " "

16 1259 TIPO

aut a Norte por Tacubaya de Chey (entr6 1218)

CR4G72%Q86E48224263873%8986885865572%85886343535628848388333%

IHURSDAY 3 Ochober 1963

Doverage: $00 to 1900

171200 UM W

de Norte por lacubaya

13 1204 UM W

mut a Norte por Prenhaya on Tard)

let de l to let to to did de do to l le en alley'

20

1213 UMM

in

3882 JF

18%0 0 19 19

21 1222 U MM

out a sur "por, Tacubara!

0C04087

leb

6 8

1...

---

## Page 47

WEDNESDAY 25 SEPTEMBER 1963 Log Film 143

Coverago: 900 to 1900

"20 Exp

Weather 1/100

Camera Sotting 3.5-2.5°

1 1040 2U MM

out a oriento por Chigontepec despide DEN (entraron 1033)

# 1 D 00 1 19 s9 M De »

207729 DF

C/3323728373378386848684d863888Y23888998784687858687844878

FRIDAY 27 SEPTEMBER 1963

Coverage: 900 to 1900

71018 UMM

in UNW de Oriento por Chicontepec de Gordini

68909 DF

38080N89 0D 89 89 80 D DO 00 SO 80 D9 DA DO DP 19 18 DE 88 19 80

" * / *

9 1022:0 M

M

10 1037 20 M 4

in de Oriente por Chicontepecide VWagen (placas no se van)

il)"

out a Morte por Tacubayg;

(entraros

059)

12 1018 U M M

13 X048 UM M

out a

Sun

por

out UNW a Norte

1 Pet 1.

A Contra 1047)

por Facubaya en Gordini

68909 DF

1+ 1032 U M M

out a Norte por Tacubaya en Viagen. (placas destruidas)

15 1105. V.AM

in de Sur por Tacubaya UVespera en Pontiac

1»99 M MMM M 8 M 9 M M M ! 9 8 1 9 1 8 1 19 1 19 8999 19 10 89 89

1K3263 Tox

13 1107 U M Y que espia para dentro del CLUB(se ra las 1103)

13 1128 UH 18

i. rate,

out a triente por Chicontapec (CMPLEADA DEL CLUB???)

19

1116 Un!

20

+7:98979488119582998888899298898288899

21

aut lAl a iorto por facubaya -'soide 10a en Pontiac

LX5265 73X

LodertI blanco 1X5281. de TEXAS899HI9N:+99994914 7995899919999959

• de la 19 80 80 80 lo de gad

22 1 49 99

94

us..

0064088

6 8

---

## Page 48

TO

INFO

DISPATCH

Chiot, WH Division

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

HIRA- 11710

FEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

50-0-25/3

50-5-74/2

FROM

DATE

SUBJECT

Chiot of Station, Mexico City

Operational/LIPIY Station File Breakdown

10 December 1959

RE: "43-3"' - (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ACTION REQUIRED

None,

Ior Headquarters information orall

REFERENCE(S)

(A)

HMW-6968,

(B)

HIMMA-11257,

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

cile breadown for the LeaPer

In reply to the raph BiTED

ned in reference (A)s listed below is the station's

50-5-7411

12

Plans & Developments

Support

Operations (General)

Operations (GERINDE Contact Reports)

/4

Operations (SCATLING Contact

Reports)

Production

50-6-7445

154

/53

-

-

-

50-6-7415

165

50-6-7417

ITA

/73

rand

LINTED Administration

LITIED Operations

LIMITED

Logs

T, JIYRIC Administration NUIN

LILYRIC Operations

LICALIA

50-5-7413

/EA

/33

50-5-74/9

ross

LENIRAP Administration

LINIRAP Operations

LICITRAP LOgS

LIJERSEY Administration

LIJERSEY Operations

25 Cocame: 1958

Discrisntion:

3 - 713

2-"Lius

At tod

PROMUBT: END

0004089

tired

!:: 5:3

15.35

1S EDITION

it hird it '21

A to wald

322

AGE :0.

Toms: 68.4968

176746

---

