# 104-10163-10091

## Page 1

104-10163-10091,

24

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEC-PÉT

ROUTING

- 6

181

FROM: UMWAVE

ACTION

IW.

INFO.•

VR, FILE, CS/RF.

LER-ET, 240036

24 FEB 65 $259Z IN 86271

DIR INFO

LANT BARR CITE WAVE 8618

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-| WHO MET WITH FRANK FIORINI AND BILL JOHNSON

AT SOURCE'S HOUSE 14:30 28 FEB 65. FIORINI TOLD SOURCE THAT JOHPISON

SAID HE SAW JACK GRIFFIN AFTER HIS RELEASE BY U.S. AUTHORITIES FOLL-

OWING PLANE CRASH, BUT JOHNSON WOULD NOT DISCLOSE DETAILS THEIR CONVEP.-

SATION.

RID: INDEX. FILED 24/$936Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: 1• INSISTENCF. OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA THAT THE MIRR BOMB THE

CITY OF HABANA.

61:2. USE OF AMERICAN PILOTS IN MIRR AIR STRIKES

TW COMMENT.

RELLASING INP

CHARLES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WALSAS

12

WH/REG

TDCS DB-315/00652-65

X/ ROUTINE

TPRIORITY

BASED ON: UFG 6747

Daunda

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

NO PROJECT

24 FEBRUARY 1965

(RECLATTER/I)

M.

BOUNDS

05197

LIAISON:

SECRET

BROUP!

ERGLUBIO +NON

ALITONATE

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED.

Copy Mis

•i t

f

I/BR

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

1675-08

ROUTING

S:

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

PAGE TWO

IN 86271

DO1: 13 - 28 FEBRUARY 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (22 FEBRUARY 1JÓ5)

UFG-6747

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HASANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS. THE SOURCE MAS CONTAGIS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO

U.S. INTELLIGENCE: • THIS INFORMATION WAS OSTAINED FROM SILL SCHNSON.

teetal

IM COMMENT.

TDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ONE

PRIORITY

REFASING I WO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

LIAISON.

5 600

SECRET

REFROLETION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFIÇE IS PROMISITED.

AUSRIdIAPA

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

, =

* isas 3001

CONFIDENTIAL

Cot leete divia don

CONFIDENTIAL

ESTE LOS : JEN

BRINTI'E

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF 20 FEBRUARY 1965

INA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCSD3-315100652-65

DISTR 24 FEBRUARY 1965

_ SUWECT .

1. MIRR INTENTION TO BOMB iNBANA

2. USE OF AMERICAN PILOTS lIA MIRR AIR STRIKES

MACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (22 FEERUARY 1965)

SOURCE

* 86271

TELO REPORT NO. UFG 6747

APPRAISAL A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF MABAILA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.

THE SOURCE MAS CONTACIS WHO RECOGNIZE MIM AS A ONDEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

THIS INFORMATION MAS OBTAINED FROM bILE JAIGISON.

- 1. ON 2$ FEBRUARY 1965, BILL JOHNSON, AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO

: ARRANGES THE SUPPORT ASPECTS JE AIR STRIKES AGAINST CURA GY ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA'S MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL. DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCION-

ARIA (MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY), SAID

THAT THE MIRR WAS MAKING 18%-POUNO "ASH ÇAN"'. BOMBS FOR SUBSEQUENT

RAIDE, "MORE THAN AMPLE TO BLIDW UP THE OIL TANKS IN HABANA." JOHNSON

SAID THAT BOSCH STILL INTENOS TO BOMB HABANA, BUT. "IT WILL BE AGAINST

MY ADVICE". JOHNSON LATER ADMITTED THAT HIS OMN MOTIVATION IS PURELY

MERCENARY. (FIELD CONMENT: SEE ICS08-3:5/88558-65, DATED 16

FEBRUARY 1965, FOR INFORMATION ON BOSCH'S INSISTENCE THAT THE CITY

United Sentes within the ascaning of the Essioeng

Law, Tie 18, USC So 193 a 194, le e Maris de evelios Unted Sa e itin he mant ote pe

prohibited by law.

CROUB

Fachadad

ww.

CONFIDENTIAL

COMELEO DESEM

DIA

ARAYIACE NAVY

AR

JeS SECDEF

N: m79

taLA

OCI

ONE

00 EXU

AD/CI 2

CIA/NMCC. FBI I&NS

TREASURY

CUSTOMS

BORDER PATROL

ATROL CASi GUARD

de itos

---

## Page 4

14-00000

• *.

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS DB-

315/00652-65

PAGE

OF HABANA BE THE MIRR'S NEXT TARGET. THIS MISSION WAS ORIGINALLY

SCHEDULED FOR 1Ó FEBRUARY.)

2. JOHNSON ALLEGED THAT THE PLANES OPERATING FOR THE MIRR ARE

LEAVING FROM THE UNITED STATES. WHEN

I TAMPA WAS MENTIONED AS A POSSIBLE

DEPARTURE POINT, JOHNSON SAID: "YOU'RE GETTING CLOSE."

3. JOHNSON SAID HIS SMALL GROUP PRACTICES GOOD SECURITY."

"WHEN VE GET A PLANE AND A PILOT, WE CONTRACT THEM FOR THREE OPERATIONS""

THE PLANES ARE FLOWN BY AMERICAN PILOTS SINCE "THE CUBAN PILOTS DON'T

HAVE THE GUTS. "

4. JOHNSON GLAIMED THAT JACK GRIFFIN, THE AMERICAN PILOT WHO

CRASH-LANDED A B-25 EARLIER THAT MORNING, HAD TAKEN PART IN A PREVIOUS

RAID ON CUBA. HOWEVIR, HE DID NOT KNOW IF THE DOWNEU B-25 HAD EVER BEEN

USED IN ANY RAIDS. JOHNSON SAID HE DOES NOT KNOW DAN SHAW,

GRIFFIN'S CO-PILOT ABOARD THE DOWNED B-25.

5º JOHNSON INSISTED THAT THE RAID WHICH THE IRR ANNOUNCED AS

HAVING TAKEN PLACE ON BAHIA HONDA ON 13 FEBRUARY HAD TAKEN PLACE

IN SPITE OF THE FACT THAT CUBA HAS NOT ACKNOWLEDGED IT.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, ¡BI, CUSTOMS, LENS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG.

(END OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

• CANTROLER 83301

---

