# 104-10221-10214

## Page 1

104-10221-10214

a. m

EBF

45328

UNITED STATES DEPARTNENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL DUNLAU OF INVESTICATION

WASHINGTON 25, D.C

File. la

Date s

To:

Fron:

Subjeet:

May 10, 1960

office of Security

Dopartment of State

John Elter loover, Uirector

FRANK ANTHONY STUDIS, alSO knoon 18

fronk Florind

NATHALITY. MATTD:3

Thâs vill confira informition furnished on

May 7. 1060, by Spocial Agen? Le Mo

inton of this lurent, to

Ar. Loule to lace of tho vaporteont of Stoto, Mr®

Marto T.

Imirration and Notarallzation Service; and

Chaster ho: iborick of the i

hund hy

special Agent te le laynes to

Intellivenco Avency: Commandet de Le Moir of the vielce of Naval

Inselligence; colonal Ligens Cor,

assistang Chiet of Steff for

Intalligence,

topartcont of the ares; lajos jo

1' Ford of ite

UffIce 09

spociad

Anvussiyotiong, Lepertront of the Als Forco:

and lochnical sergeans Joaeph Horghtll, cô the doint stut

ĐT:

1950.

un infomunt of this burean sho has:

•Purished rollable

unidentified minon

contacted Abciards

Lateration in tre Mist Advices ther 40

Cuban Connul feseral,

Manio

Flortis,

pod intonsse hin that a rronp

or one hindrei son

ras being trained in slooring by Pedro ints bio? lanz, formor

chief of Curon Heroinsionaty Air force, und that tils

woande

Sipa

3s a wesher of thie sr0ag.

Acecroing to the interamt.

thia

wann further advised Blanco

ghas she froap was scheduter)

degar? Pos Dibe on May B, 1950,

En May 6, 1960, iro dene Chapur,

so forder l'atrol,

Minal, Floridigneder Patrol had reinter de had vone

elvised the Miasi uffice of thie turceu that a

Prank Anthony Sturils on the evoning of tay 5.

saued a sollenry unitormant noots.

Accordin: to tils

omge, genagynicht inlvidunis sore scheinles to participode ir

ES COPY

---

## Page 2

OBF 45328

Goldca o1 security

Departnent of State

an Invasion against Cubar

M-l rifles and two carbines nore show to chia sourco hy

Stunts and the source further selated that these men aro

boing trained an riflo practice in the Lverlaios.

, Koxionol

Ulroctor,

Aloel Ursico,

natter estensive investiration and that the feroau of Customs,

sident, Florida,

had been advised of pertinent information.

ro Ureaster. furthor advined that the Barden of Custons and tho

dordor Patrol would toke tha nacessary desion in tho ovent

Sturgia®

group assenuts to loave the Inited Stasco.

This data do furnished for your logoration.

active investigation

of this motor de beins undertation ly tho

Director

Consral Intellinence" Agonsy

Astentiona, Dopusy Director, Plus

1 • Diroctor e! Naval Intolligence

1 - 08rico o9 Spécial Investigotions

Afr Vorce

ARtoniion: chios, Counterincelligence Divlalon

1 = Assistant Chior of Stofi for Intelligenca

Deportrent of sha Army

Assention: Chiles, security Diviaion

! - Leputy Coandastenara Investigasions

Lureou. of Gisteng

1 The Corlesionor

Jungration and Naturalisetion Serviee

1 o Major toneral Rebore A. lireltoolser, usaF

Director for

intelligence

The Joint Stair

300n 1 € 960

Tha

Pentagon

Hashingson 8ã, D. 6.

li direned

61-24a:36

---

