# 104-10107-10161

## Page 1

104-10107-10161

SSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optionall

FROM:

OGC ST

* J: LITIGATION, CRIMINAL (It )

NTERNAL

USE ONLY

UDC 681810

COl. IDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Agency Relationship with Herbert Itkin

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

C/WH/7/Ht

TO: (Officer designation, room number, an

wilding

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

DC/WH/7

2.

3.

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whort. Draw d line across column after each comment.)

Attached is a copy of the

memo prepared by C/WH/7/CI

on the subject of Agency

contact with Herb Itkin.

4.

IT• John K. Greaney

OGC -Tube: BX-5 (Green

JKG

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

1T.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

• O USE PREVIOU

DITION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

0ge 68.1870

MENORANDUM FOR & Chies.. 7H/FX

SUBJISCT

* Herbert Itin

There has been no Agency contact with ITI!. My

noccA," creT/asA ptated that ch flast deflaitaly never vom

In contact with his.

BAY BOCCA 'I sOurCe Of InfO on the DEJOIs.

Max BOLT-ITKIN & Company, setlyitten an lar BOLT mad not

ITKIN®

2. Offices checked for possible contact, all of which

proved negasive, vort:

Office of security, Domestic Contacta

Service, Domestle Operations Diviaion, CA/3, CA/d, WHY and

CI/E

8 A.

3.

the resulte of his preting with DEJOlE, BOLTE, FIGNOLE and

INC BTEPHEN 10 their fornation of the Provetonal Haltian

Government In Badle formed 1n San Juan on 12 May & that

ININ bad been hired by that group as lan Attorney.

10 Juns 1963 ITKIN reglatered with the Departent of State

as a foreign Agent for this group adding that he made a

•personal loan to DEJOIE of $15,000.

A & May 1963 Menorandun of Conversation from the

Department: of State sets forth the resulta of an informal.

meeting (possibly helu on 28 April 1963) attended by Torreat

5, ABDUL (Officer lu Charge, HaLtion AffaIrE, State ARA/CRA),

DEJOIE, BOLTE, A (INT) BRODIE, ANd ITEIN, In Which DEJOIE

expressed his

political views, asked for U.8. mupport for

an Invasion of Halth, U.S. recognition of the Provialonl

Goverment 1n Bille, esc.

• Appropriate documents substantiat a -bove are

herewith attached.

03

C/WR/7/CJ

18 July 1968

---

