# 104-10186-10110

## Page 1

104-10186-10110

"RT

51912

ORT

CENTRAL INTELLGENCE AGENCY

Ila nasirtal enataias Infornitos alecting the Nellonal Defena el lhe thilod Biates vilala lhe melaina al the ExplORase lATA, TILI

L, 'UJB.c. Bnca 113 and tos, tho sranintenion di terelacion of maica in nay mantos to na uanulborint poron se prodialiad by las

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT ALEJO GARRIGA Rábasa

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Cs CI-316/01240- 64

12. October 1964

1

¡ RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4/р/

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACO. October 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALLATED: INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DERINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCEi A forner Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Connients

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Is Chies o one the bea sente on veste e oceand

heard a rumor that GARRIGA was arrested over a year ago and

condemmed to ten years in prison.

GARRIGA was born about 1924.

Headquarters Comments

•• A fairly reliable source in a document dated 5 August 1959

stated that Alejo S. GARRIGA y Rabasa was a first sergeant

and Chief of Services and Personnel in the Departamento

Tecnico de Investigaciones de la Policia Nacional Revolucionari

(Technical Department of Investigations of the National

Revolutionary Police).

2.

First Sergeant Alejo GAKRIGA y Rabasa was identified by a

usually reliable source on 17 Nay 1961 as the Departamento

Tecnico de Investigacions (DTI) Chief of Personnel whose wife

said she had been allowed to see him on only two occasions since 5

he had been arrested sixty days earlier by G-2 agents, along with

His wife said that only GARRIGA, out of the

whole group, had been held incommunicado.

STATE

I DIA

I NAVY

REP CINCLINT CINCSO A

(Note: Field distribution indicared by "=*)

IMKx

IFBI 2

_I&N'S

FORMATON

REPO

RT

INFORMATION REPORT

FrI/SA/EOB

1NE/5/:

CILLIA

LIE

ILX = 1822

11

3 IE

TO PROJECT (A3NUG/1)

I./B8A.SE

_CSCI-316/01240-54

BEL/SALCI 141

RIDLAN

TOYALA

WH/SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

iwk

1 ст

pp " 1569

OBSOLET PREVIOUS EDITIONA

---

