# 104-10185-10005

## Page 1

104-10185-10005

.1.=

Vrad

r?.

it January 1961

EXCRANDIM FORS Finance Division

REFERENCES

I/A 1-226 and TíA 1-285 datod 21 Docember 1960

1.

• The anounts apecifled in referenced I/l'a vero giver to

wWIN by CUB, Luxemburg on authorization fron Headquarters per

DIR 09757 (UTT S5940) .

In bat cable, IS Luxerbours sea told to

Til all @jill exporses te Readquartors since wHIV vas being used

for FI/D purposes.

Subsequenbly, cus, luxesbourg foruerded to

eadquartera In CLLA 11:3, dated 17 Joraaber 1960, a breaidown of

fundo divon to gWIN. This dlspatob, which la Top Segrai, also

corvarded QuIN's receipto for thi soney given to bia by 00s,

Incambourg.

The dia mich shown that 7,500 Belgian francs vore

Elvon to GiAH for traval in Eurojo: 10,000 Bulgian france for

per dies la Eurojo; 6,500. Balgian franas for purchase al cluthing:

15,000 Bellas franca for par; 15,100 Polgian frares for airplane

clokos to africa and reture; 30,300 Bolgias france for exporses in

africa, making a total of 24, 500 Bolgian iranca.

The discatch and

the radolpes forwarded with 1t are being retained in the faTY

file in F1/D/upe and vial be shown to olther the certifare officor

oF the alditor on request, as will other periinent docusente in the

rile.

2.

In ordor to sroid ary alsundorstanding, lt should be

noted that " IN was sent on thia trip fur a spoolfio, hirbly

senaltive operatioral purpose which has been completed.

ilthough

rubiro use of juill 19 sue precluded, 1t was not deared fittica

Lurine this one use of bia to ontar loto a continuing coctractal

reisidonahly or to bara hla siga for andorandia of understaalini,.

Ins arvuntain the referencad I/l's should rot be applied

agalnat the aúrance acrun! of cus, LiteRiourE.

alves to rill who signai recluis for thea, and tha cur, Lexambourg

uss involved in in outar cajacity than that of a cut ail to give

*WIs tho funda.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

HILLIAY K. PASTEY

Distribution:

rig. &2-iddrossco

1 - FI/D 'UpS

'rbo

51:0.0p3

03

11 danuary, 1960

---

