# 104-10185-10139

## Page 1

104-10185-10139

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DiSSEM

COUNIRY

Cuba

REPORT NO.

•CS CI-316/00252-6°

• SUBJECT

Oreste VARELA

DATE DISTR.

21 July 1964

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO

FUCE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO. US: 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

PALS IS UNEL'ALUATED MOPON

MATION SQUICE ORADIADI ANI DEFINITIVE APPEASAL OR CONTENT IN TENTATIVI

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service. until April 1964.

Headquartera Comments:

1.

The following report is one of a series containing persunality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

2. It la requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the Individuals mentloned in the personallty reporte withou

first checking with this Agency.

Oreste VARELA, pseudonym 'Ordon" or "Odon, ' Is the Argentina

Desk Officer In the Liberacion Nactonal (LN - National Liberation)

section of the Direccion Genoral de Intelgencia (DGI - Genera

Directorate of Intelliencel.

Headquarters Comment

The records of thia Agency reveal no Identifiable information

on VARELA

5

3

3/PV

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ARALY

MAVY

ABH

NSA

REP CINCLANT SINÇSO + I&NS

INFORMATION

EPOR

KIT SA TOBITEER

A ICT/ LTX

TH SAMOS WE MADH 2 CEREA

RID/AN

JE

WASHI

VIL HAVE I

-014.8

WIL'SA 2 (U, WE 1 (2), CL 4, RID 1

Ease 860

OSMO! STY PER LOLA EDITIONS

201- None

4

L0A6809

I FBI

HON-RERORT

LX - 1592

NO PROJECT

TIAMMUG- 1)

ICSCI-316: 00252-8

1911

CI

---

