# 104-10192-10112

## Page 1

104-10192-10112

TO CIA

Background Use Onig

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

REPORT NO.

JNWAVE

UFG 7445

REPURTINE DIGITIA

Henry J. SLOMAN

NO for or ret

11 Aug 65

His 0era

Margarot a Nail a

PhilEe U. ELAARO

1. - Hqs.

1

- 00/C

2

• JMBARR (CONKWESTFOR)

({OF CINCSO) -Te AT

Pocial

ACS

THOCESSING ACTION

XX

COVER SNEET

MARNEO TOO ANDALINO

(MORNINO REQUIRED

OPE DATA HEPORICO SEPARATELY

DIBSEMIAABOA

106,8

DISSEMEMATION

FIELD RISTRIOUTION

ESTRA AGENCY

I cy, each to Miami rops. of:

State, F.B.Ie,

Customs,

Border Patrol,

U.S.C.G.

I&NS,

EMENTAL DATA

TYPIC

Source: AMOT-215 in ANOT report SE-3811, dated 28 July 1965.

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Doclassification

SEPORTS

1÷ 105: P

H03 R1 0377

5:8 1467

iS COPY

4208

19-300-10

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADIE OF SOURCE: A Complet oy reliallo

B. Voually ratiahle

€: Nol relistie.

lo Breer ee of dustillul honesty or trally, regardions ol leir combederkel.

(701)

AFOUAISAL OF CORTENT, 8, Consemod or one indecendent and reliable muries a Padada tal l Possitiyprue, l Doubtlul, 3e Proharo

1A:1%4:

61 Cannut do ludend.

CONFIDINTIAL

CONTRULLED DISSE

COUNTRY, plang of tho lovtalunto Donocratico

REPRI VO

SUBJECT

Cristiano (MDC)

to Attack the Radar DArDESERRT 11 August 1905

Installations at Cabo do Sai Antonio

and to Dostroy the Rofrigoration

NO PASES

3

Machinory ut tho Fishing Cooporative

In Dinag, Pinar dol Rio Provinco

REFErENES

CATE OF Into July 1965

INFO.

FLACE &

Unitod States, Miant

UFG 7445

CATE ACQ (30 July 1965)

TAND MB UMNYANNAYLS

ПРОПАДТОМ. ВОШИСЯ ОЛЛОЬНОВ АГЕ СЕНіШ

SOURCE:

A mumbor of a group of Cuban migrós trained in tho tochniques

of Information colloction. The group les providod usoful

roporta since 1961.

1.

(Summary:

Tho Movinionto Domocratico Cristiano (NDC, Christian

Donocratle lovomont) had to raid plans on filo in July 1985,.

which were achodulod to bo directed agigst Cuban targots

comotino in the futuro.

Operation Maroo isvolves a naval

attack agingt tho radar Installations at Cavo do San Antonio

on the Poninsula of Guamahacabibos, tile Operation Machete is

against the dostruction a the rofrigeration

oquipment at tho fishing cooporative la Dims, Pluar dol Rio

Provinco.)

In late July 1965 mombers of the MC had to raid plans on 11l0 -

Operation Nacoo and Operation Machete,

which they vore planning

to diroct orninst Cuban tarrots somotine in the futuro.

A third

Oporation Cacahual, which Involred an attack on tho

distillery at Santa Crus dol Norto,

Bayars Province, abortud on

26 July when un allogod Unitod States fury vessel sighted the

VICKY I, a V-23, an MDC Craft, ibout S0 miles Iron tho Florida

coast and suusequently intorcopted the craft and hor crow.1

3.

Operation Macoo involves a naval attack against the radar installa-

tions at Cavo de San Antonio (N 21-51, 7 &+-S7) on tho Peninsula

of Guanahacabibos, while Operation Maeboto la to be dirocted

against the destruction of tho rofricerstion eguipoent at the

Pinar del

[ishing cooporative in Dinas (N 23-29,30, 181-14.00 POllORIng

Rio Provinces the BERNARDO II.

The oporations require to use of

threo cralt:

mother ship whoso roul nano is

belleved to be the PUNCHINCHIA, which is usually berthod at the

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

Irelestend tam duemat

declass fc atria

DISTRIBUTION

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEY

UFG 7445

docks of Trofilo Balun's Antillean Marino Shipping Corporation,

3050 Mr. North Rivor Davo,

Miasi; the VICKY 1, which ly normally

anchored at the Crandon

Park Marina on loy Biscayne; and an

RE-:12, & rubbor raft oquippod with au 18-horsepowor

ongine.

Oporation Maçoo will roquire

.the use of ton mon, five of whom

aro schedulod to bo aboard the BERNARDO. II and livo aboard the

VICKY I®

This oporation will involve the following chockpoints:

Point A: N 24-35.00, N 82:50.00

Point B: N 22-38.00,

# 84.37.00

Point C..

N 22-04.004

W

85-07.30

Point D: N 21-51.00, # 84-57.00..

The following la the ltinorary In local timo of the 206-m110

trip that le to bo mdo in 22 hours and 23 minutes by the

BERNARDO. II and the VICKY I:

0237 - Dopart from Dry Tortugas and cruise at eight

knots for tho 147-ile trip to Point B

2100 - Arrive/Dopart from Point B and cruiso at 15 knots

for the 15milo trip to Point C

2400 - Arrive/Depart fron Point C and crulme at 15 knots

for the 11 n1lo trip to Point D

0100 - Arrive at Point D

0115 - Dopart from Point D

The BERNARDO II, after having towed tho VICKY I to Point B, will

depart immediatoly for the rendozvous point - Point A in the

Dry Tortugas.

The KDC mombors intend to take with them onc 57-um roonilless

rifle with

gun with. 1,000 rounds of ammunitton, two 7.62-m FAL rifles

dosignated

Iragnontation grenades.

2243

two cases of projuctiles, one 30-callbor machine

for NATO uSO 1th 1, 000 rounds ul ammunition, and 10

They will open fire on the radár: installa

tion at a point about 300 to 500 meters away from the targot

Operation Macheto calls for the use of 12 men, fou of whom are

scheduled to be

and five aboard the RE-12.

aboard the BERNArDo IX, thres

Pollowing check points:

Point A:

N. 21-34.30, N 82-56.00

Point B:

N. 23-00.00,

# 89-58,00

Polat C:

22-34.00,

W84-19.00

Point D:

N 22-29.00, # 84-14.00.

B. The following 19

the itinorary in local time of the 145)-mlle

trip that is to be made in 16 hours and 45 minutes by the craft:

0515 - Depart from Dry Tortugas and cruiso at eight knots

for the 109-mile trip to Point B

1855 - Arrive at Point B

1955 - Depart from Point B and cruiso at 15 knots for

the 30-m1le trip to Point C

2155 • Arrive/Dopart froa Point C and cruise at six knots

for. the six and one hall mile trip to Point D

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 4

9.

10€

11.

12°

13.

CUNF IDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

UFC 7415

2300 - Arrival at Polot D of the VICKY I

2400 - Duparturo from Point D of the VICKY I

0105 - Rondezvous/Departure of the VICKY I with

the RU-12

0305 - Arrivnl/Doparturo from Point B of the BERNARDO II,

the VICKY I and the RB-13

For Operation Machoto, the MDC mombers intend to take with them

ono 57-un rocoilless

rifle with two casos of projoctiles, two

7.62-ma YAL rifles designated for NATO use with 800 rounds. of

ammunition,

throe 3 submachine guns, one 30-callber machine

gun with 1,000 rounds of ammunition,

sivo 15-cartbor plato s

with 1,000 rounde of ammunition,

five commando knives,

12 hand

grenados - six fragiontation and six phosphorous, 60 pounde of

C explosive, and timo fuses.

In addition,

they plan to take

Ilve canteens,

five olive-green untforms, live paire of boots,

and three matascopes.

Tho RB12 will be launched at Point C by the VICKY I and will

then proceed immediatoly with the commando group and equipmont

to the

target area.

all to laughed, o

At 200 meters fron the coast a frogman will

leave

the raft and procood to the coast, where he will reconnoiter

the area.

After tho frogman transmits an all-clear signal to

the raft,

the remaining four men will paddle the raft to the

coast.

While two nen romin in the raft and koep watch, the other

throo nen will procoed along the 50 noter stretch to the fishing

cooporative and place tho chargos in the refrigeration machinery.

The raft will then proceed to. Point C whore the flve-man crew

will rendezvous with the VICKY I.

The BERNARDO II will bé about 30 ailes from the coast whilo

the coirigoration machinory is boing mined, and will remain at

Polnt B for

the VICKY I.

If the rendezvous takos place on

both craft will proceed to their operation base.

schedule it by 0300 the craft have not rendezvoused,

However,

the BERNARDO II

and the

VICKY I will proceed independently to the

alternato point

o1 rendezvous, the Cosgrove Shoal Light la the Marquebas Islands.

In the case of both oporations, the BERNARDO II will communicate

by radio telephone every two hours with the base,

except during

the final four hours of navigation before approaching the target

areas.

In the event that any of the personnel are intercepted and captured

"by the enemy," they are to declare that they are all members

of the military section of the MDC and are discharging their

duties in ling with their mission, which is in support of the

free Cubans who

in the hills of Cubs.

1.

Field Comment:

. See TDCSDB-315/02530-65, dated 27 July 1965,

and TDCSDB-3TS/02538-65,

dated 28 July,

fosinformation on

Operation Cacahual and the inability of the NDC to effect

a raid on

the distillery.

CONFIDANTIAL

CONTROLLED DISS&H

---

