# 104-10128-10260

## Page 1

104-10128-10260

SECRET

(l ben Filled In)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER

2. NAME (LASS-FirsI-Middle)

024345

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PHILLIPS, DAVID A.

REASSIGNHENT

VTOV

6. FUNDS

CF TOY

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/WH

FOREIGN FIELD

BRANCH 5

V TO CF

CF TO CF

16-20

11. POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

Ist SECRETARY, POLITICAL OFFICER

0186

16. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, esc.)

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

FSR

-GS

03 7

164

18. REMARKS

0136.05

FROM: DDP/WE/COG/OFF OF THE CH/POS #1105

HOME BASE WH

APPROVED 25ga attached

DATE PREPARED

2 January 19%0

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTH

DAY

YEAR

01 lu 1

70

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO

CHARGEABLE

15. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office o

Personnel

0135 0691

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

16-20

T13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATEC!

23,646..

521, 519

z/pl

1 - Finance

2 - Security

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

HENRY L.

BERTHOLD

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

CODE

CODE

OFFICE CODING

22. STATION

73. INTEGREE

NUMERIC

/ 24. NDATRS. 25. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

ALPHABETIC

DA,

TR.

DATE SIGNED

27.

но.

DATE OF LEI

DA.

YR.

28. MTE EXPIRES

NO.

DA.

YR.

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

36. SEN. COMP. DATE

RETIREMENT DATA

1=8t

2- ORGA

CODE

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

но.

TYPE

DA.

va.

T7. LONG. COMP. DATE

| 38.

CAREER CATEGORY

CAR / REST

CODE

PROV/TEMP

39.

CODE

O-WAIVER

1- YES

33. SECURITY

REQ. NO.

34. SEX

EOD DATA

FEGLI/MEALTH INSURANCE

HEALTH INS. CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

1-5 PT.

2-10 PT.

41.

CODE

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERMMENT SERVICE

- NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

I-HO BREAK IN SERVICE

- BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEA

-BREAK ON SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 TEA

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTITICATION

42. LEAVE CAT. 43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

FORM EXECUTED CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

1-mS

TORM EXECUTEO

STATE TAX DATA

CODE NiMAX STATE CODE

46. 0.P. APROY RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE APPROVED

ORMA

3-67 115

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROOMATIC

ERCLUDED FROM CASSATIA BOS

DOWNGRADI

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i. i

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE

SECRET

(When Filled In)

EMPLOYEE NOTIGE OF RESIGNATION

_ FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

(Dase)

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE-

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Sereet, Ciry, State, Zip Code)

Items 1 thru 7

and

Items 9 thru 18a

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items. Items 3 thru 7 and 9 chru

18 require information which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the curren

status of the employee unless specific items remain unchanged

ItemS - "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Out

Temporary

Detail In

Temporary-Part Time

WAE

Consultant

Military

Item 9 - "Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization pertinent to identify-

ing the location of the position:

=z Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, exc.)

Office, Major Staff, etc.

Section

Unit

Items 11 and 15 - "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be the standard abbreviated title and

orresponding occupational series in Handbook of Official Occupational Titles and Code

or the duties actually to be performed by the employee. If different from the title an

series of the position occupied as shown on the most current edition of the Position Con-

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under Item

18- Remarks.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which

the should ee tel and the other chare he Viet Serd cons involved, the, aiminks.

If more than one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Serv-

ROUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate

prevat ice noilation to the a of est if i e o-a-a), ehich copy only ance

se sent to the Office (s) concerned

SECRET

---

