# 104-10186-10123

## Page 1

104-10186-10123

ir 1..0

THEOR MAII

REPORT

CENTRAL iNTELLIGENCE AGENCY

INTO REPORT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Francisco DOYHARZABAL Garcia

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CS C1-316/01220-64

21 September 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1409€

MACE & Washington, 1964€•

DATE ACQ. September

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEPINITIVR

MEO ENTANO. COMINIS TONAME

SOURCE. A formor Cuban IS officer who. served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

RETURNTO CiVicadquarters Comments

Jackground Use Orte sollowing report ta one of a series containing personality

Do Not Reproducen Pormation

provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in

the personality reports without first

checking

with this Ageney.

Sourco knew Francisco DOYHARZABAL Garcia at the Department

of Investigations of

the Police in 1959.

He cannot renenber

DOoreRous Dyscal description and does not. know his present

Hoadquarters Comments

1. A fairly rellable source, in a roport Jated 5 August 1959,

that Francisco DOYHARZABAL Garcia was an agent in the

Drug:Bureau of the Department of Technical Irvestigations of

the National Nevolutionary Police. He held the rank of

sergeant.

2.

Included with a report dated 19 October 1960,

was a list of

members of the Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones of the

Cuban National Revolutionary Police who would be taking courses

given by that Department.

One Francisco DOYHARZABAL Garcia was

included on the list.

In a report dated 3 May 1961, from a usually reliable source,

tho name Francisco DOYHARZAL appeared on an official roster of

the Departmento Tecnico de Investigaciones. His serial

number was listed as 23765, grade 10, and a monthly salary

of $60.

SECRET

Padded bon a

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TAIR

INSA

188x

FBI 2

3 :

STATE

TOIA

TARMY

NAvY

LER CINCLANT CINCSO #

(Nola: Frold distribution indicoled by ' #*)

IFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

YEL5/R

WE/MADR

CULLIA

D/CI/RRA

RID/AN

WALSHS

LR - 1691

NO PROJECT (ANMUG/1)

_CSCI-316/01220-64

3/0J

CORALS RE/SAT (1),

розж но і

WE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

• 1A18088 €

INK: LD: s/Wk

---

