# 104-10433-10167

## Page 1

104-10433-10167

#?

165

4/11/68

CODE

HE a

Rosen

TELETYPE

URGINT

Mr.

G. C.

Moore

* .

Gr11f1th

Atkinson

TO LASCAT SANTO. DOMINCO

VIA TÉLETYPE

TROM DIRECTOR YE.

12380

APR 111968

ASSASSINATION OF NARTIN LUTHER KING, JU.

ENCIPHERED

REURTELS NOBERS TIO AND TOUR DATID APNIL LIGHT LASTE

FIRTININT DATA IN BETELS WAS INCORPORATED INTO LIN AND

FURNISHED WHITE HOUSE, ATTORNEY GENERAL AND INTERESTED

GOVERIHENT AGENCIES BY LITTIE APRIL TEN INSTANT.

IN VIEY OY NATURE AND INORITY OF ALLIGATIONS MADE BY

HERVAN HENRIQUE% LORA CONCERNING THIS NATTER, LEGAT MUST ENDEAVOR

TO VERIFY OR DISPROVE SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

FROFOGRAPE OF ONE HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOWN AS

HERNAN HENRIQUET URINA LORA, BORN OCTOBER TWENTY YOUR, FIFTEEN,

AT SAN DIECO, CURIOR BANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA BEING FORMANDED

SEPARATELY®

RE + 44-38241-498

BUREAU FILES REVEAL ABOVE INDIVIDUAL IS DOMINICAN CITIZE

40

APR 12 1968

AND HIS PARENTS VEIL MAX AND GUARINA HUNIQUE.

105-168197

Rap Brown)

100446080

(s. Carnichs])

Ro C°Fl: 054719387--nan Henriquez

MAR ROOM

TEL

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TELETYPE TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

) (1)

5(3)

D(6)

THIS INTORHATION HAS CLASSIFID "SECHET" BY CIA..

CIA ON AUGURY NINE, BIXTY BIX, ADVIBED IT HAD NOT HAD ANY

6(6) OPERATIONAL INTERESS IN I

AND ITS TILA

INDICATED HE HAS "YERY UNSAVORY RRPUTATION."

ADDITIONAL PERTINENT ITORNATION CONCEANINO HENZIQUES LORA

WILL DI POLARDED BY AIRTI

1OLL!

Logat in retole roported Henriques Lora had

volunteered " thiro party he over heard a conversation il

Banto Dosingo between two Downican connunlate in which

de was alleged that Stokely Carmichael and 1. Rap Brown

advocated the denth of Martin Luther King and King'

sanssination vould benefit the cause of black violence.

8 - 068 11 15 57 6K, EB

cocile nill

---

## Page 3

13-00000

JGAD

Docfl

16t )

4/11/68

CODE

HT .

Rosen

TELTYPR

UEGENT

G. C.

Moore

199090

Cr11f1th

Nr. Atkineon

TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

VIA TÉLETYPE

FIOL DIRECTOZ FBI

Miukkend.

1&3201

APR 1 11968

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER EINQ, J.

ENCIPHERED

RIUETELS NUIBIRS TIO AND FOUL DATID APAIL FIGET LAST.

PEZTINKNT DATA I AITES VAS INCORPORATED INTO LJU AND

AB t

FURNISNED WAITT BOUSE, ATTORNEY CNIRA? IND INTERISTED

COVERNENT AGEICIEE EY LITTIE AFIL TEY INSTART.

IN VIZU OT NATURE AND INOZHITY OF ALLEGATIONS LADE BY

HERVAN HENRIQUEY LORA CONCERNING THIS MATTER, LEGAT MUST ItDEAVOR

TO VERIFY OR DISPHOVY SUCH ALLECATIONS •

PHOTOGRAPE OF ONT HERVAN HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOWN AB

HERNAN HENBIQUSZ URENA LORA, BORN OCTOBES TVENTY FOUB, FIFTEEN,

AT SAN DIEGO, CUBA, ON. BANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA, BEINQ FORVARDED

SEPARATELY®

REC-A 44-38261-498

BURXAU FILES REVEAL ADOVE INDIVIDUAL IS DOMINICAN CITIZEN

1• APR I2 1968

AND HIS PARENTE VERL MAX AND QUARINA HARIQUET.

CIA OU APRIL SEVENTIEN, SIXTY TWO, ADVISED ABOVE HENHIQUEX

LORA WAS CITIZEN OP DOMINICAN EEPUBLIC WED HAD BETY TRAVELINO OX

JIFTY NINE.

PONE PASSPURY NIOENTI OIE OUE IS ANVEE JASRO SATUART TYSN YIVSEG

TE ONI NINE SIX THO HE RIBIDED AT ANTONIO MAURA TENI/

1" Toreiga llalaon unlt (route through fos rovlou)

1 - 105 168197

e 1000145080

(: Car achod

Caruichael) :

51 204 93 19n Fonriques Lox,

MAN' nOCH

---

## Page 4

13-00000

TELETYPE TO LEGAT BANTO DOMINGO

RES ABSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

MADRID, SPAIN. ACCORDINO TO CIA, EL HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN BOTE

PRO CASTRO AND ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITISS IN MADRID DURING PRECEDING

THO TEARE AND WAS BUSPECTED OY BEINO A MIMBAR ON CURAN @TIO.

THIS IIPORNATION WAB CIASSITIED "SECHEY BY CIA..

OPKRATICHAL INTEREST IN MINAN ENRIQUEY LOLA AND ITS TILES

NDICATED EX LAY "YERT UNSAVOLT SEPITATION®"

AXDITIONAL PRITIKENT INTORNATION CONCERNING FINIQUES LORA

WILL EL FORWARDED FT AUT

NOTI:

Legat In rotola reported Henriques Lors had

volunteered " third party had over heard a conversation u

Santo Doningo between two Dominicas communista le which

It wan allegod that Stokely Carnichael and I. Rap Brow

advocated the denth of. Martin Luther Ling and LIng'=

assassination vould benefit the cause of black violence.

∞ 8 = 168 11 15 IT hK,e8

cocire null

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TO

•Da do We No 88

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Do J. Brennaa, J5, /p3,

DATE: April 17, 1968

RON: 8. Jo Papichyu

UBJECT:

MURKIN

Mpt. t

Hishop

Ç0s2er

Callahen

Conred

Fall-

Gale.

Rosen

Sallivan.

Trotter

Tolo, Fat

Helen

Milities

5(3)

(6)

(3)

(6)

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),

furnished the following to the Liaison Agent on April 17, 1968:

* Cis source, characterized as being very rellable,

adylsed that on of about Apsll 15, 1968,

an lodividual Identi

Sylog himself as d

called

a* the a

office of the

a nd

shed to be

as soon as possible.

it should

be noted that reference la bolns made to the office of the

No was asked to furnish his local

address 1n

and he refused to do so. He became very

agltated and then left.

So far he has not returned to the

aforementioned office.

CIA's source stated that

answers, the general description of the suspoct in the lostant

case, as reported in newspapers.

volunteered Information Indicating that

he applied form

o1n4

I CaLlorale, on

June 16, 1964, and that be regiatered as a member of the

pon February 21, 1968.

Ho has 0

and u

he was born April 8

193711 Miasour (town not given). CIA'e source described

him as 5'10"; 155 pounds; brown hale, receding balrline on

both sides; a scar, not prominent, about two and one hall

Inches long across the center of hle forshead. His nost

outstanding characteristic was bis orin, described as "dia-

concerting and resembling a grimace REC

4: 24461-2404

has beet

(3)

16)

given to our Logat,

sources

lend washes out, CIA would like to be advisete:

ACTION:

The above Information la being directed

to the

attention of the Civil Rights Section of the

General Investigative DiViaL0s.

SIP:olb Li- (1)

1 = Mr. McGowna (Loog)

I1a1s0s

• Me. Papich

633

---

## Page 6

13-00000

ROM

UBJECT:

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

Toloor.

got.

Mr. Do Jo Brennan, 550/923

DATE: Apr11 17, 1968

8. J. Papichy

MURKIN

Rishop

Carpes

Callahan

Conrad

Fall

Cale

f0-3.48993

Salliva

Tavel -

Troller

Tela, F.60%

Helms.

Can try

Militie

Richard Ober, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),

furnished the followlog to the Llaison Agent on April 17, 1968:

A CIA source, characterized us being very reliable.

asked to bo signed on s ship as soon as posaible. (It should

be noted that reference is being made to the office of the u.s.

National Maritino Uolon.) Ho was asked to furnish his local

address

and he refused to do so. He became very

agitated and then left. So far he has not returned to the

aforementioned office.

CIA's source stated that Richards

answers, the general description of the suspect in the instant

case, an reported la newspepers.

Richards volunteered information Indicating that

he applied for seaman's papers in San Pedro, Califorela, on

1964; and that he rogistered as a member of the

one 101 Maritime Union 1n San Pedro on February 21, 1968.

He has Social Security number 562-16-5078. and U. S. Const

Guard identifying.

document 22711-782.

him as 5'10"; 155 pounds; brown halt, receding hairline on

both sides; a scar,

not prominent, about two and one half

Inches long across the enter of his forehead. His nost

510 1011 - 2404

given to our lorat,

sources

If this

load washes out, CIA would Ilke to be advised

ACTION:

The above Information 1s being directed

to the

attention of the Civil Righta Section of tbe

General Investigative Division.

SJP:01b 2. - (1)

1 = Mr. AcGovan (Long)

]

Lla1s00

'M • Papich

• in

---

## Page 7

13-00000

TO

Был он, 00, по. 18

UNITED STATES & ERNMENT

Memorandum

:Mr. Wo C. Sullivan

wes,

• 113

167)

DATE: Ap111 22, 1968

FROM :TO d. A. 51200

SUBJECT: MURKIN

(6) 3)

At 6:35 pm 4/22/68,

Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA),

furnished the followiL

Information to Night Supervisor James I. icGuire by telephone:

(bX0)

(b) F3)

(616)

Tolson m

DeLoach o

Carper c

Cellenon,

Conted ....

Felt

gala.

Sullie —

Tavel an

Trotter

Tele. Roem

helmes c

18 6

(0)(1)

(B) 6)

(b)U

B

Further,

he does not know of any factual

connection of these individuals

with the King case.

He said CIA

sources were trying to develop this matter furtber.

He also

advised that CIA would send the FBI a written communication

concerning this matter on 4/23/68.

At 9:10 pm 4/22/68,

orally advised

that a

check had been made with the

determined that

JFW: chs (T)

1 - M. Sullivan

1

Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr • Holgeson

BAPR3CIUOD

1."

-do.

1

1

REC-48

Mr.

J.A.S1200

Mr a

Papich

My o

J.F.McGulre

44-35801-17

AHR 24 1968

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

RS: MURKIN

the assassination of lartin Luther king-

Indicated that

the entire information may be a complete hoax; however, CIA will

advise FBI 1f any additionad data comes to their attention.

ACTION:

The above information was orally furnished to Mr. Helgeson,

General Investigative Division.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

the #EH8.

10. 8#

UNITED STATES & ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

wes,

FROM

2r. J. 1. 51200/18

SUBJECT: MURKIN

• 113

181)

DoLoach..

Bishop .

Caspes m

Callah en

Conted

Fell anone

DATE: Ap11] 22, 1968

Sullsen

Towed me

Trolles nee

At 6:35 pm 4/22/68,

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the following

clearera sortes, IT

Intornation to Night Supervisor James I. McGuire by telephone:

CIA SOurCeS

have reported two American citizens

' are being detained in Panama City, Panama, at the request of the

Costa Rican authorities.

Allegedly, they

are being detained In

connection with the assassination of Martin Luther King.

individuals are Identified us Ton Holman, born 7/17/44 in New York.

Wolman has Pasaport Number 7085474, Issued 1/29/68, and his

permanent residence is show as 30

larrys lane, Pleasantville,

New Yorke

The other individual 1s Identifled as Douglas Harry

Hulbard, Paseport Number 330926,

Hulbard 1s described as a former

soldier who has returned to Panama to be married.

Cia did not

have any further descriptive data regarding Hulbard.

These two Individuals were traveling in a Chevrolet,

Itcense Number 23GH19,

Motor Number 13 387 13 113711. The velicle

and license plates could not be further described by CIA. According

to CIA, Holman's passport indicates he had entered and departed

El Salvador and Honduras on 4/17/68; Nicaragua on 4/18/68.

advised he has no indication why the Costa

Rican authorities have requested the detention of the above

described individuals.

Further, he does not know of any factual

connection of these individuals with the King case. He said CIA

sources were trying to develop this matter further. He also

advised that CIA would send the FBI a written communication

concerning this matter on 4/23/68.

At 9:10 pm 4/22/68.

CIA, orally advised

that a check had been

made

with the Coste

Rican authorities and

determined that Costa

Rica

has no information regarding the above

mentioned individuals; that Costa Rica did not request Panamanian

authorities to hold these individuals, that they have no request

Iron any American authorities to detain them; and that they have

JFM: che (7)

REC-18 CONTINUED SEROL

44-31861-1085

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. J.A. S1200

1

• Me: Rosen

1

- NOTE

M0- g050I

1

Nre

Papich

• . A+R 24 1968

— No.

J.F.McGulre

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

RE:

MURKIN

no knowledge of any connection between these individuals and

the assassination of Martin Luther King®

Indicated that

the entire information may be a complete hoax; however, CIA will

adv180 FBI 11 any additional data comes to their attention.

ACTION: •

The above information was orally furnished to li. Helgeson,

General Investigative Divis1os.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

1010 48#

AY +ФA0 ВВN

UNITED STATÈS COVERNMENT

Memorandum

DoJtD

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE: 4/28/68

5. 20111

....

ri

: J. A. $1700

iT MURKIN

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised

this date that o

Germany, had advised the American Embassy, Addis Ababa,

Ethlopis, that he

belleved he had seen an Individual

whom he

thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the

on the afternoon of 4/23/68.

(D)B)

Because he thought

the

Individual looked 11k0 Galt he made an effort to get some

(8)(6)

Information concerning hit. He found he was rogistered at the

hotel as

(6)A2

The

did not know 1f

had

resistered at the hotel as an American..

In conversation with

•learned that

was employed by the

c(adress unknown) and was en route to

Bullles contaln no referencos to

or the

(3) %5

CIA,

WaG

advised that Bufiles contain no

references to

ACTION:

None.

For Information. This ia being referred to

the General Investigative Divisior

JHE: brr

• : (8)

1

Sullivan

Mr.

Rosen

Sizoo

Мг. G.С. Moore

Ma• McGowan

Мт.

Ac Donough

- Ir. Kavanagh

REC- 11

+ 1800.

(D) (6)

- 246/

---

## Page 12

13-00000

1010 100

R0 1008 90+10

ОБ A9А0.

#0. n0. #9

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

: J. A. $1z00

T. WURKIN

att

DATE: 4/28/68

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised

this date that & german

doctor, Kinus Steer, German Director,

Scientific Department, Africa,'S: Merck Aktlengesellschast,

Karnstacy, cormany, had advised the American Embassy, Addis Ababa.

Ethiopia, that he belleved he had seen an individual

whon he

thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the Bristol Hotel, lagos,

Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4/23/68.

Because he thought the

Individual looked I1ke Galt he made an effort to get some

Information concerning him. He found he was registered at the

hotel aa Joo-luagague, Room 403, receipt number D52138,

account sumber 08385:" The doctor did not know if Musgaque had

registered at the hotel as an American.

In conversation with

Musgaque the doctor learned that Musgaque was employed by the

Wilder 011 Company (adress unknown) and was en route to. Warri

011 Field, Nigeria:

Bufiles contain no references to Joe Musgaque or the

Wilder. O1l Company.

CIA, was advised that Bufiles contain no,

to Jon Mungaque or Wilder O11 Company.

references

ACTION:

None.

For information.

This is being referred to

the General Investigative Division.

JHE: brr

(8)

•1

1

Мт .

Mr.

Mr.

Ma.

Sulllvan

Rosen

S1z00

G.C. Hoors

McGowan

McDonough

Kavanagh

REC- 31

- 246/

Ate As

a...."

---

## Page 13

13-00000

goe

jet

429-68

Alrtel

• Mr. Eudson

Tos SAC, shington Fold

Iron: Director, FBI

MURKIN

13

1(6)

On 4-28-38, O representativo of CIA advised the

Burenu that s

had advised the American I bassy,

• that ho belteved he had seen an

Individunl whom he thought

to be Eric Starvo Calt at the

on the afternoon of 1- 73-88.

The Individul me Identitled

who 1a

reportedly no employee of the

nddress

unknown.

Washington Field, check pausport records for any

Identifying dat concerning

1 and else attempt to

determine through the Depertment of State any Information

concerning the

which roportedly 1u

opersting In

Il no into mition am lable 1u

State Department rocord regarding ther

determine whether State Departuent eon obtein this Informtlon

from the

Embassy-

Ennot Inediately

1 - Memphis (1210)

KX-220 REC 5

54011-2440

• APR 30 1968

7J: 112

(5)

NOTE:

See memorandu from J. A. S1200 to W. C. Sulllvan

dated 4-28-68, captloned "Wurkin" JHK: brr.

3

1968

MAIL ROOL

TELETYPE UNIT L

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Do got

D.

4-29-68

Airtel

1 - Mr. Hudson

To: SAC, Vanhington Fleld

From: Directos, TBI

MURKI

On 1-28-68, & representative of CIA advined the

Burenu that a German doctor, Klaus Stees, German Director,

Setentifio Departent, Africa, I. Merck Aktlengerellachast,

Erstady, Germany, had advised the American Embassy,

Addin Ababi, Ithlople, that he belleved he had seen an

Indlvldual whon he thought to be Irie Starvo Celt at the

Eristol Hotel, Ingos Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4 23-68.

The Indlyldul was Identified un Joe Musgaque, who 1m

reportedly an

employee of the "ilder Oll Company (addres

unknown).

Washington field, check pansport records for any

Identifying data concerning Musgaque; and niao sttempt to

determine through the Department of State say Informtion

concerning the "ilder Oll Company, "hich reportedly 1a

opertle 11 Nigerle. If no Information vallable In

State Department recorde regarding the Wilder 011 Company,

determine whether State Department can obtain this liforation

fron the Nigerlah Embassy.

Handle Immedintely.

1 - Memphi (Info)

EX-210 REC 5

i.d.

=-==111-2448

• APR 30 1968

IJE: j1h

(5)

See

anted

1-28-68,

frOM

sizoo to w

C. Sullivan

captioned

"Murkin" JHK: brr.

1968

MAN HOOM

TELET"" UNITI

---

## Page 15

13-00000

Quitt s

JorD

35. Do J. BrennaD, JI.

So Je Papich

CONNUNIST PARTY @ COLONDIA

INTERAL SECUNITY • COLONBIA

day 24g

1908

Tіл.:

CTION:

This IrIornation will he checked out ly tho

Soviet Soction fos any significant Indicators rolating 1o

the movement of funds through soviet Intelligenco chanels.

This Inforuation and enclosure are also belag

dirocted to the attention of the General Invostlyative livision

In the event te desire to check any icontified currency stillice

by Javes Earl Ray agatest the attached listing.

Enclosure

SJP:clb

(7)

Izaniona

Kiro Hannall

ar. HcGonan

Murkio File

Ila 1500

1

- ar. lapich

87 DEF A

1SSs

i4 DECT 31968

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Exo lo do Dronnan, Ixe

So Jo Papich

2ny 20, 1208

COME WITS C COCIA

INTERNEAT SECURITE • COLOMBIA

Tho Contral Intolligence Agency (CZA) previouszy

•has furnished injorration concerninE the aTionE

vicunlo in Colonbin who Clandestinoly breught Into the countzy

2 1a720 Dum 0S U..

Do curroucy sinted to bo dolivored in the

Communist tarty as Colorbia.

On Any 210. 4006, 100003 1223133517203

Diractor of Plani,

Cin, ande availoble the enclocod liai et

sorial numbers of

tho currency rocovcrch by Colonbian officials.

It should to noted that the Sirt dirit an onch Listed

design-ies

sie particular deroninntion (1-91; 2195; 3-;J0;

4630; 5-360; 6-5190) .

AC1321:

This intornation vill le clocked out ly tin

tovios Boction for any siguificant indicniot solatim io

the rovement of funds through Boviet incelileonco chanicle

This information and enclosure are also belie

aircetod to the ritostion of the Concoal Seversirctivo Hivision

in tho coont so denijo to chock any icontified cureecy stilized

by James Eard may againot the attachod alotines

EnclosuLa

(2)

Dranigan

dit'+

*anna 11

Hit' on

lictoken

lancin T300

1901601

Fro lapich

init

211"

NOP BACORD

8,7

DEC

€ 1913

panda ratio

RICINAD FILED

poison...

---

## Page 17

13-00000

(18)(3)

3

3010-100 .

TO

ORIONAL SORR NO. 10

AGAT BP52 BDITION

дА C. #0.

UNITED STATES GOV NMENT

•Memoranaum

Mr. I. So Millerin

DATE:

November 29, 1973

Fles

• Gian.

Ident

hap

FROM : #. A. Branigan

SUBJECT:

REGORUS

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMAZION CONCERNING

Direct

On November 21, 1973, Mr.

of the

i ends

Central Intelligence Agency personally delivered the attached

press release noting that the captioned committee was sponsoring

& two-day conference at Georgetown University on November 23 and

24 in commemoration of the Tenth Anniversary of President John F.

Kennedy's death.

particularly noted that former

Special Agent Willian

Turner was scheduled to be the moderator

panel dealing with unique investigative techniques.

In the

program Turner is identified as a former FBI Agent, author of

numerous books on investigative techniques.

Among others

appearing on the program are Fred Cook, Mark/ane, Harold Weisber:

all of whom who have been outspoken critics of the FBI.

The Central Intelligence Agency, according tofir

concerned over the appearance of their

ex-employees

Victor, Marchetti and GeorgeXO' Toole.

Tadvised that his Agency would have coverage

of the conference

and that he would be happy to pass along any

data developed by their coverage.

ACTION:

For information,

Anything of pertinence received

from Mx.

will

be made a matter of record,

A copy of this

memorandum has been designated for the personnel file of

ex-Agent Turner.

WAB:hkeft:

(5)

REC-89

62-12197-3FM/ab

62-112697

Enclosure

- Personnel File of William Turmex

- Mr.

Walsh

Mr.

E.

Hre

W.

S.

Miller

A.

Branigan

FX-112

1

FINCLOSUREL

V: DEG 3 1573

5698

—XEROX

59 1373

15 50E0 151913

ReglerkI

---

## Page 18

13-00000

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

OPTIONSI PORM NO, 19

1010-06 •

010. 28

UNITED STATES GOVINMENT

Memoranaum

Asso

Mr. E. S. Miller ru

DATE: November 29, 1973

3mp. 5y89.=

Ex. Affoirs -

Files &a Com.

Gon. inv, -

Idant..

inapaction

W. A. Branigan

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

MISCELLANEOUS • INFORMATION CONCERNING

Pion, & Eral.

Зрес. Inv.

Troining

hagal Cour.

Teloptigno Rm.

Direstor

On November 21, 1973, Mr. Raymond Rocca of the

Central Intelligence

Agency personaly derivered the attached

press release noting that the captioned committee was sponsorin*

a two-day conference at Georgetown University on November 23 and

24 in commemoration of the Tenth Anniversary of President John F

Kennedy's death.

Mr. Rocca particularly noted that forner

Special Agent William Turner was scheduled to be the moderator

of a panel dealing with unique investigative techniques.

In the

program Turner is identified as a former FBI Agent,

author of

numerous books on investigative techniques. Among others

RECORUS

18i1208586

The Central Intelligence Agency, according to Mr. Rocca,

concerned over the appearance of their ex-employees

Victor, Marchetti and

Mr. Rocca advised that his Agency would have coverage

of the conference

that he would be happy to pass along any

data developed by their coverage.

ACTION:

For information.

Anything of pertinence received

from

Mr, Rocca will

be made a matter of record.

A copy of this

memorandum has been designated for the personnel file of

ex-Agent Turner.

WAB: hkeft

(5)

62-112697

Enclosure

fans got fail

• Personnel File of William

Walsh

Mx •

E.

Mr.

W.

S.

Miller

A.

. Branigan

REC-89

(X-112

62-112497-351125

1UI

ner

ANCLOSUREL

DEC 3 1973

559₴

XEROX

Sy 1913

155000 1 3 193

74040

COPY Frid

DEC 12 1952

---

## Page 19

13-00000

FLUNAND PRTETENTALD, 3A.

•FITCUTIVE DIEG-'N

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE

ASSASSINATIONS

1520 10TR STREET, N. W.

WASHINGTON, N. C. 20006 .

(302) 232-1132

BINCTOR US NEITHE

Jabra Yrad

how to tax t

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

In observance of the tenth anniversary of Fresident Kennedy's deats,

the Committee to Investigate Assassinations is sponsoring a two-day

Conferance at Georgetown University on November 23rd and 24th.

A

brochure describing the Conference and its program is attached. As

you will note, several of the Nation's prominent wilters and Investi-

gators of the assassinations of the pást decade vill speak.

While a number of different points of view on the subject will be

represented, there is general consensus that the Executive Branch has

failed to make known all the relevant facts of the assassinations..

He believe that the Congress must ultimately take the initiative lE

the public is to learn all of the facts, and that Watergate has shown

us that Congreas' action depends largely, on disclosures by an informed

press and other news media.

A press pass will be available for you at the conference registration

desk. For further information, please contact:

Ms. AndrealWyatt

Conference Coordinator

(202) 232-1152

11/29/23

WA TENCEOSIR.

i meet

21

---

## Page 20

13-00000

COME SHARE THE FINDINGS

OF THE NATION'S EXPERTS

AT. A TWO DAY CONFERENCE

THE LAST THREE PRESIDENTIAL

ELECTIONS. HAVE BEEN DECIDED BY

BULLETS:

190e- result deciced by the assussination of

Presiciont.John F. Kennady

1S0S - result decided by the assassination of

Sunator Robey F. Kenoedy

1972 - rosult ducided be the near-assassination of

Governor Gozige Wallace

SPONSORED BY THE COMMITTEE TO

INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

TO BE LIFLO AT:

CEORGSTOWN

UNIVERSITY

CASTON HALL

WHAT is the evidence?

WHO fire ine fatal slots?

WHY has there been such a concerted effort

10 withhold the facis?

WHO was really behind the assassinations?

Nov. 23-24, 1973

COMMITTIE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

1320768h Serco, N.W., Washingion, D.C. • (302) 252-1152

DECADE OP

ASSASSINATIONS

1963 - 1973

JOLIN F. KENNEDY • SYLVANUS OLYMPIO O

ABDUL KAKI KASSEM • MEDGAR EVERS E

"NGO" DIAH DIEM • SIGNE DORME ACID AL "

SHISHAKL! • PIERRE NGENDANDU:VE

HASSAN ALI MANSOUR A MALCOLN XI VIOL

LIUZZO A MARIO MONDEZ MONTENSCRO • SIF

AGUBAKAR BALEWAS SIT.V. IRONSI AGUITI

HENDRIK VERWOERD • TRIN VAS VAN I

GEORGE LINCOLN ROCKWELL • CHEGUUVAR, •

• MARTIN LUTHER KING • ROSER F.

KENNEDY " EDUARDO NONDLANE . 1OM

MBOYA: • AG SHERMARKE • CEORSE

WALLACE • SALVADORE ALLEN .9

---

## Page 21

13-00000

FRIDAY - NOVEMBER 23

9:00 LATE REGISTRATION

Farly Registrunis pick up pisses.

9:50

WELCOME:

tir. Dernard Fonsterwald, Jr.,

Direcior,

Committce

10

Executive

Investigate

Assassinations

dir. Norman Muller, Author and Forwarder

of The Filth Estale

10:00

CURATHT STATUS OF PROMINENT

ASSASSINATION CASES:

JFK. CAse Mir. Robert P. Sinith, Director

es escarcis, Commitier to Invustigato

RFK CASE - Air. Robert Hanson, Aitorney,

present counsel for Sirhan Sirhan

KING CASE - Mr. James Lesar, Altorney,

preseni counsel for James Cari Ray

WALLACE CASE - Air. Ronald Van Doren,

Newsman, Aulhor, researcher into the

hackground of Arthur Broiner

ROCKWELL CASE - Nis. Meredith Rode,

Professor

üt Federal City College,

Authority in killing of George Lincoln

Rockwell

1i:30

UNIQUE INVESTIGNTIVE TECHNIQUES:

Mr. Willam Turner, Moderater - Former

FOl Agent, Author of numerous books

on investigative secinigues

Mr. Georus O'Toole - Foimer CIA Ageni,

Free-Lince Writer, expert on the PSE

(Psychological Stress Evali.to:)

Mr. Robert Salzanor a Colouier Frigineer,

lecturer

on

the

Warren Commission

Rerort

12:30

2:00

6:00

8:30

1965 a 1973

PROGRAM

FRIDAY i Continuod

BREAK FOR LUNCH

MEDICAL AND PHYSICAL EVIDENCE:

Mi. Joslah Thompson,

Modcrator

Professor at Haverford Colicas, aúthor of

Sir Seconds In Dallas

Dr. Cyril Wecht - Professor of Law and

Forensic Medicine

it

Duquesne

Universitv; Coroner of Pittsburgh, Pa.

Ms: Sylvia Meagher - Attorney, UN Official,

author of Accessories Miler The Fact

Mr. Roger Hanson - Altorney, counsel to

Sirhan Sirhan

Mr. Herbert MacDunnell - Profussor of

Criminalistics, Corning University; export

in case of Fred Hampton

Mr. Mark Lane - Attorney, author of Kush

To Judgment and Executive Action

BREAK FOR DINNER

WARREN COMMISSION REPORT: FACT

OR FICTION

A slide show and lecture by Mir. Robert

Saltzman

SATURDAY - NOVEMSE? 24

9:30

ASEASSINATIONS AND THENEDIA:

Air.

john

Henry Facia, Moderator -

Humorist and Author of Feor On Trial

Mir. Robert Kaiser - Anior of RFK Must

Dic

Mr. Dona'd Freed - Co-Author of Executive

diction

Mr. Hareid Weisborg - Autior ot Frume lip

Mr. lid Charach - Author ei Second Gun

Mr. Peier Noves - Mutisor of Loren Of

Doubt

Air, Fred Coon--Author of numorous 300ks

and arlicies

12:30 BREAK FOR LUNCH

2:00

THEOFIES OF CONSPIRACY:

Mr. Richaro Spragus,

Moderator

Computer expert and author

Dr. Richard Popkin, Proferore: Missing an

University; author of The Secord Orrid

Coi. Fletcher Prouty - Former Lisican.

Officer

author of The Scorer Tires

Mr. Rosent K. Brown - Forrer Cool!

Services Dificer; esper: in dampis on

life of Castro

Mr. Earl Golz - Reporter fur Dillas Herning

News, expert on Organized Crimes

Mr. Vicior Marchetti - Former CiA Agent;

authe:

Mr.

Peter

Dale Scott - Preíessor 2:

Berkciay: Auther of Thu Wer Conspirocy

5:00

: INDIVIOUAL WORKSHOPS WITH THE

SPEAKE.Sa

Orestion mad Answer Sestions

600/ FIN

---

## Page 22

13-00000

7 BI documents.

ferreren

---

