# 104-10180-10207

## Page 1

104-10180-10207

CORFIDERIAL

319 iN '60

104,28

IP- SALARY REQUESTEO

aSCEPTABLE STATIC

38. "09L

D.

C30

LINIPATIONS

Good

IS. TORRS GIVEN

07088. 1008.

• »lannend, oror-all en

Gial eurod

makes a good ixpression In the Interster. He la nodium height and

build, conservativaly dressed, man of 29.

ho has dark hair and fair complexion

omars Rascal here be recolred!

Flosset conversationalishlgood command of English, Was educated

Has completod several

Ne 1a equally Flueat 1n

Englioh and Spanish and bas & knowledge of Freach, Pertuguöle and Italian.

an American Citien livingarith his

four shildren in lavana,

Since completin, bla

Tin 1954 he has been engared

1a business with la fathers in Havana.

they aro under the carito rogino.

They are andous to return to the states with condit on sa 0u

ado brother 1a a co been oldine

nas been a oltisan sinco 194910 Hia vito la a natural bor US citizan,

and while hla parents are citizens

of Cuba they satatain a remidanoel

1o The attached romme 1s pointed to

privato industry, where be la attaipting to sake contacto at thia time.

Agoney in any capacitya

une in tom temporarily and cam'by to offer services to tbe

Copy of this Il to XI. Lou Armstrangfer Inforation,

29 DECONMENDEO PON

28. 18858

28 January 1960

CONFIDENTIAL

1310

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEPARATS COVER ENCLOGURE TO

R185 RATED

Identity 1s

Amer doad.

Trenresentatamen for

Diatribution:

2. ∞ COS, Habane

1 - RI

1 - hi/l/Chrono

NH///FI/Rsonhares/de (22 JUy INO)

---

