# 104-10172-10155

## Page 1

104-10172-10155

BBO DAT

REPORT

SINFORM STION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Ble matarial contatos informalion alacine the Melonal Detene of the Dalsod Atales trest the meaing of Sie Haplonaso low T1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NOFORN /CONTINUED CONTAOS.

COUNTRY

Cuba

SUBJECT

Inorease of Sabotago In Cuba

REPORT NO. CS-3/52,421

DATE DISTR.

20 sune 1962

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RD

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO

SOURCE,

Hid-May 1962

England, London

(1 June 1962)

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

05

FELD REPORT NO.

INFORHATION

SOUPCE GRADINOS ARE DIVINITIVE APPRAISAI OF CONTENT IS TRATATIVE

Ufrom "a rogular source, quating Joran Mirlo,

corresponden: in Cuba of TANJUO, Yugoslar press agonoy.

Appra1oal of Content: 30

Tho militia is no longer regarded by the Cuban Government as a sorious

faotor in Internal or external defense•

Instead, it 1s used as a recrulting

ground for the Armed Forces, which are now thoroughly profesaional and

well-trained.

2. Armed clashes between opposition groups and goverment forces have ocourred

1n several provinces, Including Matanzas, Camaguey, and Pinar del Rio..

3• There has been a notable increase in sabotage since February or March 1962.

Buildings and faotories have been blon up or burned, cane fiolds set on

firo, and above all, passivo reistance has grown in certain industries,

espeolally the sugar refining industry. A different pattern of sabotage

has amorged. Instead of sotting off explosive or incendiary bomba ihere

they might cause loss of life or Injury, thus aroning popular resentment

against the opposition, turgets are choven for the maximm finanotal damage

or dislocation®

S-B-C-R-E-T

STATE P 1E ARMY

X NAVY

NORORA CONTINUED CONTROL

XINSA

ESPCINCLANT

CINC ARUB #

¡Noro Washlagron drribution indested by "X", Hall detribarion by "f)

INFOR

MATION REPORT

CI/OPS/N9

121E 5

2/ TFW/SI

1s/6

ASBUD2

2 WH/CA/PROP

21MH/PAC

POrALA DISSEM SEC 1, IE 2, CI 2, FI 3, l 3 (2),

W 11 (1), WH 4 (1).

escindse tras

€21

distenthoe

18L DIA 1X FBI

2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INCORMATION REPORT

DEL 32,818 58

NO PROJECT (SMOTA)

CS-3/514,421

OOONDIMATIMO

REARABINI

C

---

