# 104-10127-10002

## Page 1

104-10127-10002]

SECRET

ULE RECOND COPY

HSCA-

OLC 78-1745

1 6 MAY 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM

Lyle L. Miller

Acting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT

: House Select Committee on Assassinations Staff

Visit to Mexico City, 30 May 1978

1. (U) Action Requested: None; for information only.

2. (S)

The House Select Committee on Assassinations staff

plans to visit Mexico City to interview individuals in connection

with their investigation into the death of President John F.

Kennedy.

3.

Mexico City.

(U) The Committee is sending four staff members to

They are:

Gary Cornwell, Deputy Chief Counsel

Harold Leap,

Investigator

Dan Hardway, Researcher

Edwin Lopez, Researcher

From Houston via A an is

(S) This team is scheduled to arrive in Mexico City

from Houston via TIA 983, on 30 May for a four to five day visit.

lhey expect to contact the Mexican Government Attorney General's

office to seek assistance in locating Mexican citizens for

interviews.

They have asked the Agency to assist in locating

other individuals, and we have forwarded their request to the

Chief of Station, Mexico (see attached).

5.

employee and

(S) Of the individuals reauested, Charles Flick is a forme

formerly operated a DDO

photographic surveillance site. A third individual was recently

requested.

He is Bobert Zambernardi, a former TSD officer who

retired in 1965, listing American Embassy, Mexico City as forwarding

SECRET

2 007013137203

19818

---

## Page 2

SECRET

address.

We expect to ask the Chief of Station Mexico to

assist in locating these three and to assist in providing

a secure facility for them to be interviewed by the

Committee staff.

As per our Memorandum of Understanding with

the Committee, all notes taken

during these three

interviews

should be retained by the Station, classified Secret and

pouched to OLC for disposition.

The Committee will carry

with them a copy of your letter to Chairman Louis Stokes

authorizing current/former employees to talk to Committee

investigators.

LENGINED

Lyle L. Miller

Attachment:

As Stated

Distribution:

Orig

- Addressee. w/att

1 - DDCI w/att

1 - ER w/att

]

1

- SA/DO/O w/att

OLC Subject w/att

1 - OLC Chron w/att

OLC: RSG: jms (15 May. 78)

2

SECRET

---

