# 104-10307-10064

## Page 1

1104-10307.100641

DISPATCH

TO

INFO.

Chief of Station,

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

FROM

Chief, LA Division

SUBJ RYBAT REAM/Request for Identification of Photographs

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

CAUTION- LINARAN

SECURE STORAGE

IN FIELD

ORIGINATOR'S REQUEST FOR HOS. PROCESSING

INDEXING REQUESTED

NO INDEXING

APERTURE CARD REQUESTED

We request that the attached photographs of an unidentified

SLAPSTIC" for identification as soon as possible.

A photograph of this man was published in the Warren Commission

report on the assassination of President Kennedy.

Copies of the

photograph have been widely distributed in news media by journalists

critical of the Warren Connission investigation.

The unidentified

man visited the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City during

"35 years of age,

As of October 196 about & feet tall,d

he was described as approximately

hairline with hiding top, and dressed in ent is and sport scert.

blond receding

We wuld appreciate any information SLAPSTICK-1 is able to

provide on this individual.

Please return the photograph

completion of query.

Pamela P. LARRABEE

Attachment:

a/s

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - coS,

E2, IMPDET

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFPW-1298

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CL BY 059405

Internal Distribution:

1 - IP (201-)

1. - LA/COG/ CHRONO

1 - LA/CAR

01144/ COG/WH

OFFICE SYMBOL

AC/LA/COG

DATE

DATE

8 March 1977

HOS FILE NUMBER

19-6-154/3

ORIGINATING

/ rkd

COORDINATING

OFFICER'S NAME

EXT] 819

a, thas

OFIE CABCAR

DATE

140)

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

ПЕРАТЕМ

---

