# 104-10183-10145

## Page 1

104-10183-10145

¡to" i2A J'Uso Provious Edition

FROM:

ACTION

NO

31

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUT

15.4

_WE 8

CA, 1085, CONC 20C, PO, 3, 140, GUARE, CAPES CON

IN, WUSA 8, VR, FILE

AD/CI. 2, AS/NE.

CONFIDENTIAL

Cia i wave creen ne

INTEL

SUPDATA:

NOV 4: 8223Z 64 IN 16457

SICKWOOD FROM AMWHIP ONE FROM NARANJO WHO IS INTIMATE

FRIEND SEE

7221 (IN 13562). 10 INDEX-J

FILED:

83141+Z

CONFIDENTIAL/NOFOREIGN DISSEM

22(0FP} 14484

COUNTRY CUBA

SUBUECT: REMARAS BY MAYOR iF HAVINA IN CUSAN INTERNAL SITUATION

DOl:

LATE OCTOGER 190%

PADA

FrANCE, PARIS (2 NOVENGER IDU÷)

SOURCE:

CUCAN BUSINESS:LAM IN LXILE, LSO TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENILY

ALLO HAS GOGO ACCESS TO GUSH: DIPLCATIE INSTALLATIONS, FROLI

HAPANJO....

MY COMMENT.

SOURCE'S REPORTING HAS SECH LIMITLO.

NO CHOCHINATION OF IMI ATTACHED

TO FOR -

• AS BEIN

MADE CA"-

PELLAR:

ALLALING I WO

DATI FASTENURS

Ince

8A380

ONd

LIAISINA

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY

•DATEON

•INFO

CENTRAL INTILLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TOCS

DISTR

SUBJECT.

PLACE&

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALA

- R5F

FIELD REPORT NO.

IN 16÷07

1. JOSE ALBECTO NARANJO, MAYOR OF HAVANA AND PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN

JUNTA OF CONTROL, EXECUTION AND INSPECTION (JUCÉI), IS ONE OF THE CUBAN

GUESTS AT: THE I NOVEMBER ALGERIAN INDEPENDENCE CELEBRATION. EN ROUTE

TO ALGIERS HE REMARKED THAT THERE "'S NOTHING OF ANYTHING" IN CUSA AS

FAR AS CONSUMER GOODS ARE CONCERNED. IN MAKING HIS POINT HE NOTED THAT

IF A WELL-STOCKED DEPARTMENT STORE LIKE PARIS' GALERIES LAFAYETTE COULO

BE PARACHUTCO INTO HAVANA'S CENTRAL PARK, NO AMERICAN-BACKED INVASION

WOULO BE NECESSARY AS CUBANS WOULO BE MORE CONCERNED WITH COMPETING

FOR AVAILABLE GOOS THAN DEFENDINO THE COUNTRY.

2O ARUS. IN ABUAGANCE ARE MONEVER AVAILABLE NON IN CUBA ANO CUBAN

CONFIDENTIAL

Alast / 866, 8l0

Pao 1'7

BACCAT TOBA DOC DID UNIA OLI ONE ONE ON DE

---

## Page 3

193 3003

FLICE COSTROLS ABOVE TOÏ FLICK LINE AND BELON BOTTOM FLICK LINE

CONFIDENTIAL

A PAGE 2

CREICIALS ARE CONFIDENT THAT TMEY CAN MEET MICITARY INVASION WITH

OVERWHELMING FORCE.

30 FIDEL CASTRO RUZ IS A "NUT" WHO MAKES DECISIONS ONE DẠY AND

REVERSES THEM THE NEXT. THE SECOND MOST POWERFUL MAN IN THE COUNTRY IS

PRESIDENT OSVALDO DORTICOS TORRADO WHO IS GREATLY RESPECTED BY CASTRO.

4. DESCRIBING HIMSELF AS INDEBTED TO RAUL CASTRO RUZ FOR HIS

POSITION, NARANJO SAID THAT IN SPITE OF HIS OWN AWARENESS OF THE SHORT-

CaVINGS OF THE REGIME, HE CANNOT BETRAY RAUL. (FIELD COMMENT:

NARANJO GAINED RAUL CASTRO'S FAVOR DURING THE REVOLUTION BY HẠVING

ARUS AIRDROPPED TO RAUL'S FORCES: IN THE CUBAN MOUNTAINS: TO THE

• DESPAIR OF THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONAR1O, THE GROUP TO WHICH

NARANJO BELONGED.)

5. FIELD DISSEM: NONE.

CONFIDENTIAL

OF

M=55602

---

