# 104-10115-10074

## Page 1

104-10115-10074 --

SEGRET

13 December 196%

SUBJECT

BALISIA; Levreano:

(see alsO DAVIS, Ruiolph Richard)

LLEGATIONI

Rudolph Richerd DAVIS, Cuban

exile questioned by GARRISOn's staff

in connection with a training comp

for Cubans "nt Lacombe, Louisiana

toià thụ FBI in May 1964 that Laureano

BATISTA, sent him 19 men from Miami 1n

response to a reguest from DAVIS 1D

1963. The ten stayed at a bone beer

Lacombe, Loutalenty

CIA CORNECTION

Laurenno BATISTA, Secretary.

of Military Affairo, Executive:

Committee,

, Movimiento Democratica

Gristleno (MDC), Memi, WesT

granted a Provisional Operstional

Approval on 30 December 1959

and Enl

SOURCEN

and 7•

FeDorandun Ho. 5, Enclosures 3

OS INDICES RESULTS;

Subject, a: 32 jeer old Cubin exile, was from a wealthy Cuban

faully and In Cuba be was a braker. He was granted a POA In December

1959

A copy of a letter la Subject's file dated 22 Fovember 1963

signed by subject en Secretary for Mlitary Affsire, Erecutive Committee,:

loviniento Derocrats Cristigao is uddresses to lajor General Bela Re 3

KIRALY,

President, Fungarion Freedon Fighters Federation, Ine., and

offered the services of the IDC in arranging neetings and discussions

2ef vita other ant1-CASTRO orgenizations and the Hungarlan freedon Mehters.

Jand Covert Iction

Staff wis interested in Information on the IDC before eranting approval

for contact between the two organizations.

DETAILS!

During an Interview with the FBI in October 1963 in New York

Pudolph Richara DAVIS advised that in J nu: ry 1901 he was in Lew York

where he served as coorsinitor between the YDC end the lew York Folice

Depurtment:

DAVIS also sald that sore nineteen men bud been sent from

€:00P

SEOVER

Exeinded trom arian

trungratiay an

tasfersticatten

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orty Mi

Do Not Reproduce

8

---

## Page 2

SECRET

1'1 mi,to New Orleans by Laureeno BATISTA 17 response to = request

by DAVIS for men to work in a lumber business vith which he was

connected in Guatemala.

The men stsyed at t hore near Lücombe,

Louisians. When the FBI seized dynamite and otber explosives

neirby, the nen beeane disgruntled and were unwilling to proceed to

Cu: temile. So the luber company pild their fire buck to Miumi.

Some of the names of these nen were as follows: Victor

FARE. VE, LeodorinO INTERIAN, Fernando FERNANDEZ, and fOu FORIES.

2

SECRET

---

