# 104-10192-10272

## Page 1

104-10192-10272

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217-6/20/17

DATE

FROM

ACTION i

INFO

017

36 DEC 61

DIRECTOR

SAN JUAN

BELL TO

COP/ COP, ADOP/AR WH 5, S/6: 2

SECRET

RCUTING

3:

DEC 7 04312 61:

"ROUTINE

IN 33997

DIR INTO WAVE CITE JUAN 0404

JMZIP

0l

3. IN KARNLEY'S INITIAL MEETING S. DEC WITH (SEVER-S JOISCUSSION

ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY DEVOTED CUBAN AFFAIRS IN WHICH S1 INTENSELY

INTERESTED. DISCUSSION TOUCHED OFF BY(51 'S) ANNOUNCEMENT

HE HAD JUST BEEN PAID VISIT BY CISNEROS, WHO ALLEGED. TO BE

NEW GENERAL COORDINATOR MRP. THIS LED TO LENGTHY DISCUSSION

PAP'AND PARTICULARLY MANUEL RAY. (61 )HAS BEEN SUPPORTING AND

I'CLINED CONTINUE SOME SUPPORT RAY AND OTHERS.

2. IN RESPONSE(SI°S) STATEMENT HE BE MORE THAN WILLING

PROVIDE ANY INFORMATION CAN OBTAIN ON CUBAN ELEMENTS, IT

SUGGESTED TO HIM IT BE OF GREAT INTEREST OBTAIN FROM RAY AT THIS

TIME SULL EXPRESSION HIS POLITICAL AIMS AND SORT OF POLITICAL

AND SOCIAL ORDER HE ADVOCATES REPLACE CASTRO REGIME (5101

COLCEDED THIS WOULD BE MATTER OF CONCERN TO HIM IN DETERMINING

NATURE AND EXTENT ANY FURTHER SUPPORT HE MIGHT GIVE TO RAY AND

HIS GROUP. (S1 JALSO STATED THOUGHT' COULD PROVIDE INFO ON RI

ORGANIZATION, RAY CURRENT VIEW OF CRC, WHAT ASSETS CLAINS

INSIDE CUBA, NATURE THEIR ACTIVITIES AND WHETHER OR NOT HE

WEENER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

G1NV

---

## Page 2

104-10192-10272

SECRET

RCUTING 32

FROM

ACTION a

INFO

PAGE 2

IN 33997: - JUAN 0404

COMMUNICATES WITH THOSE ELEMENTS AND HOW, ETC.

3. (S¡JHAS ALSO BEEN GIVING SUPPORT, TO SUCH PEOPLE AS DIAZ

LANZ AND CONTE AGUERO. (51 )SAYS RECENTLY CAVE FÍNANCIAL SUPPORT

TO DIAZ LANZ IN CONNECTION BOAT OPERATIONS WHICH DIAZ LANZ

CLAIMS HE OPERATING INTO CUBA•

4: WHILE KARNLEY'S OPINIONS ON SOME OF CUBAN ELEMENTS DISCUSSED

WERE IN RATHER SHARP CONTRAST TOSSJOUTLOOK ON THEM, HE SEEMED

CENUINELY APPRECIATIVE HAVE OPINIONS AND INTIMATED HE MIGHT

WISH CONSULT KARNLEY ON FUTURE SUPPORT: HE ASKED RENDER CUBAN

GROUPS•

5. PRESUMABL 55) CÂN PROVIDE EXTENSIVE INFORMATION CUBAN

GROUPS SOLICITING HIS AID. HOWEVER, STATION WOULD LIKE TO HAVE

• INDICATION OF RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF OUR PRESSING FOR SUCH

INFORMATION.

FOR WAVES COULD JUAN BE GIVEN VERY GENERAL RUNDOWN ON

NATURE OVERALL CUBAN OPERATIONS OUT OF WAVE AREA AND SPECIFICALLY

THOSE DIRECTED BY WAVE? CAN YOU CONFIRM DIAZ LANZ IN FACT

RUNNING BOAT SORTIES AND IF SO, HOW THEY FIT INTO WAVE ACTIVITIES?

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

