# 104-10073-10058

## Page 1

104-10073-10058 F

ORIGI

PEXT&

DATE

3O

FROM

CONF

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE S

WASHENKOS

SECRETE EP 2

WH/3/MRXICO

5510

• NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

22456265

614 JLY 2958

FEDERAL BURKAD OF INVES

DEPARTMSNT OF STATE Brach

DIRECTORY CENTRAL FINE

CANCE AGENCY

WH 5

Marked 2s

чопе тедиіг

A Bignature:

Liste

C1/OPS, S/c 2

FI,FI/OPS

•2:

RETORN SO CIA

Background Use anur

Do Not Reproduce

TO

217103360

127t

ROUTING 3EA

He see:

9-3625

322222X

15.

:6

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

RECHBR

PRIORUM

OPERATIONAL

¿IMMEDIATE -

DUT50362

KOUT: 50362

1X3

INTIAL

INITIAL

NOF ORN/CONTINUED CONIROL

FROM

INFO

5231204

116-3

CITE DIR

14

DATE OF INFO:

3 and 12, MLY 1958

(MICROFILMED

SUBJECT

TRAVEL PLANS OF MANORI, GOMEZ FLORES

OC. MICRO: BER

NICARAGUAN/ CUBAN REVOLUTIONARI ACTIV

2002

REFERENCISS

OUR TELETYPES OF

2,7, 9 and 1i JuLTe

L. ON 12 JULT COLONEL MANUEL COMEZ TRO

NICARAGUAN REVOLUTIONARY

LEADER, HIRED FRTENDS IN MEXICO CITY THA

HE WASEEN NOGALES, MEXICO, AND WAS

UNABLE TO BATTER THE UNITED STATES WITHOU

POSTING A

$1,000:00 BOND.:

- HE ASKED

HIS FRIENDS TO AID HIM.

20

ON THE AFTERNOON OF 3 JULY

ALTARO ALVARADO

SL COMPADRITO) ,

ANOTHER NICRACUAN REVOLUNIONARY, VISITED CARLOS ORTO SOCARRAS, CUBAN REVOLUIIONARY

LEADER, - IN MIAHI.

RDIN

TO ALFARO, PRIO SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN LOOKING FOR A

-PLACE TO ESTABLISH A

ISTRIBUTION BASE FOR SIX YEARS AND THAT HE ACCEPTED IN PRIN-

CIPLE THE TDRA OF ESTABLISHING THE BASE IN NICARAGUA. PRIO SAID HE WAS READY AND

ABLE TO PROVIDE THE FOLLOTING THREE ITEMS REQUESTED BY ALFARO:

-200. SUB-HA CHINEGUNS

1 AIRPLANE, AND U.8. $10,000. PRIO ACCEPTED ALFARO AND ORLANDO (LNU) AS HIS CO-

WORKERS IN MAKING THE NECESSARY ABRANGEMENTR RUT SAID IT WOULD BE NECESSARY TO

NECROL

NOr ORIN/CONTINUED COMTROL

BRETASING OFFICER

ВЕПРАРІ!

AUTMINTICATINO OILIG

DERMIRITER

09581

511201

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIEDS MESSAGES

SEGRET:

NOPORN/CONTINUED CONTRaT

No Ca Record Values Destroys D

A ROUTING

ROM

DIRECTOR

CONF

ANFO

RE Indexing (check one)

Marked: -

- None

Signature:

required s

DEFERREDE

ROUING

- OPERATIONAL

IMMEPLATE

A OUT: 50362

INTALS

PÄGE... 2

INFO

CITE DIR

NOTONN/CONTINUBO CONTROL

AWAIT THE ARRIVAL OP: TONY VARONA, HIS ARMS SARESMAN, (FIELD COMMENTS ORLANDO

(INU) MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ, A CUBAN EXILE):

3. ALPARO SAID HE WAS GOING TO MAKE APRAIGEIENTS TO SETILE DOWN IN MIAMI

AFTER MAKING HIS PLANNED TRIPS UP NORTH" AND "OUT WES

MES SOURCE COMENT.

ALBARO HAS RELATIVES IN CALIFORNIA. THE PURPOSE OF. HIS

TRIP. NOETH IS NOT KNOWN.)

10 THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS FROM THE S

SUALLY RELIABLE AND SENSITIVE

SOURCE WHO FURNISHED THE INFORMATION IN

5. INNIGRATION AND NATURAL

E HAS BEEN ADVISED.

END

21-3

BASED ON: |

71973 (IN414256) and

VIESSAGE

21970 (IN 11,242)

20/-

55336

-cOo

TINO-DEFICE

SECRETE

LEASING OFFICER

NOTORN/CONTLIUED CONTROLLE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE GONE DEFIRE TE DAUDITER

RUTHENTICATING OFFICERE

---

