# 104-10273-10318

## Page 1

104-10273-10318

VLAR

NUMBER

• or dina

$351

DOC. NO.

18571

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Cirele il appropriale) 130 CHARACTERS)

NEN DOCUMENT RECORD

Instructions lor Divisions and Stolls:

1. Fill in ond Sign on line 11.

?. Use bord of for for ony odditional commenis.

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

FORM

76A4

MEMO

LETTER

AIRGAAA

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS)

11

Jur 76

Del Sec Ana Gr. Brown

CLASS WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS) | REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

TO/RECIPIENT (J0 CHARACTERS)

C/ Sec Ana Group

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

Hemming,

Gerald Patrick

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

7

9

10

11

12

DATE

OF

REVIEW

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO 110 CHARACTENS COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

E. O. 12356

FOIA

Đ1 Đ2 83 BA 85 B6 B7C

BUDA

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7. Location of CIA overseas installation

8. Location of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an FBI agent

15.

FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(j) (1)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(5) (1)

(j) (1)

(i) (1)

(b) (3)

(3) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j ) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (0) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS (F OTHEE HAS CHECKEL AEOVE. (AU CHARACTERS)

3: 61.4

. i

REMARTE 116: CHARACTER:

#SCA Review at Hqs 1977; Pawley, Seymour, Sturgis

Nd. I

Box # 52; -

14

= Fior in liosicsarieei in.le.:

Tre tie!!.

TEHE HETE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

(

11 June 1976

MEMORANDU: FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

SEEN 229

Gerald Patrick

SF#429

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

referred to the writer, who is holding the HE MING

i contacted the writer,

Ill : advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD oi Guatenala.

Iwas unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

she dans

on HEMMING.

i was requested to alert

and JMWAVE

to the below-mentioned

and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in

Station,

(IN 944357,

"provided the writer with a clue the able

which is attached..

In substance, the cable reflects that

CiCa 8. June 1976

a Guatemalan source,

with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the

Station.

a written report,

and a detailed briefing,

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

one of the major conspirators,

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

3. According to the report, the National Liberatior

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination pol

and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two Americans,

brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HE MING. - The

asserted NeRd in acquing arms, among other things, shich

were flown to Guatemala in a small

aircraft.

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

das at Gimpire!

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 063994

1857

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Lil:al.1

Station/ also included

information the Chief of Station hid received

(on 8 June.

isaid that he

had seen providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatenalan government for the past six months or

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Nismi.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

DoeS ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms,

as well as

to purchase arms and

ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

• On 19 June 1976

?

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Departnent.

6.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

employment, an is apparent eat gerald Patrict MENG

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company,

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

SEGRET

1 Cras englespee

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Gerald Patrick HENMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and INVAVE.

The most recent incident wherein HEMING clained such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug

Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

dong-time record Of fat way cameng Ariety choilat bas

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

the late 1950's HEMNING and STURGIS, both former U.S.

Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claining disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Communist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HENNING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan

government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENNING, you are referred to attachnents to instant

memorandur,

to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, JT.;

and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in Anerica--The CIA and the Assassination of John F

Kennedy

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"'

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CiA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALl, but it i:

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HENNING an

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

•Atts

SEB HET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

NEl:

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUSI FOR:

Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

SF#429 229

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HENMING

contacted the writer,

''advised that he

is the action

officer

for a cable from

Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

i was requested to alert

to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

of the report coming in

from the l

Station.

' provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

-$, dated & June 1976),

which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatenalan source,

with the knowledge

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the

Station.

concerning a plot

a written report, and a detailed briactording to the informa-

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

"Cokie" LiMERi Satie lett Guatemala

Jorge Antonio

"Cokie"

Safe lett Guatemala in August 1973 as a result

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since Augüst

1975.

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

ne was indented with emert assass nation plot

and ZINERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMING. - The HEMMING brothers

assisted ZINERI in acquiring shal among other things,

Guatemala in a

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

EZ INPDET

CL BY 063994

.18571

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

lon 8 June.

isaid that he

had seen providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months of

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Niami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the

event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S. authorities

which

permit him to carry firearms

as weil as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

alleged

employment, ate physicent that peron, Patrick EsMENG

is identical with the subject of 'Office of Security

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security, (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

is the eniglayed.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JAVE.

numerous occasions

none.

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING

clained such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HESMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

aka:

FIan: FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a

long-tine ecord of

falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

In

• the late 1950's HEMNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Connurist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEYMING.

9.

For an

appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan

government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandun, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, JI.;

and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F.

Kennedy

is a diatribe

against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the najor

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HENNING to Loran Eugene

HALL.

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that menbers of this unit were connected with ClA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALl, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HENING anc

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SOMET

---

