# 104-10124-10149

## Page 1

104-10124-10149

S0 9-527

21 March 2960

NIORAUDI FOR: Security Stall, Offico of Logistios

FROM

SUBJECT

Chias, ISD/security,

Identi-lit

÷/ 077247

Attached to thia sonorandur 1a a copy of an artiole appearing

In the February 1960

ra the retro at to tao go to do so into rene under aro

tho development of the Idents-kht, to the enount of $37,000.

TsD/2 under RD 177 and tunder thel

Progian bas invested

$82,531 Into the Idents-kito

HE• ANDERSON, ISD/EB: The Agency spinsorod Ki. MaDOMAID's vialt to

lastington end arranged his toly to Honolely, Haiall, all Is coreotion.

with the devalopmont of the ident mate. tha Jonsand Corporation, vork

1rg kith NoDOrAID; has budlt a number of these kita and vill advise the:

Agancy of those sold to foreign powers, ete. Mre Bourtney Diels, Sales

manager of Iowniend Enginearing Corporation, 18 4

Day-

a school for Identi kit wears.

3. The TSD project enginers are very dabious that NoJONAlD alealosed

alasalfled Inforation to unauthorised persons and spoak highly of his b"

They have espocially noted his engernone to cantet us on vardous craab-type

projects of an malassiciod satura.

ilo Thereforo, ue have no desire to allenato hia feelings.

Hovertheless,

I would surgent that f, JONEs, during. his fortheoning taft to the lest

Coast, Interlew Mi. MaDoNAlD to determino, 11 possible, the reason for

Inolusion of U. S. Intolligende intervat In tbe attachod artsolo, shetber or

brief MaDONALD 1I DeCessarY.

the Identl-kit Is expocted, to

racolve considerable publielty an the sales progran le stapped upe!

ats or here pead MaDoN

contac

Distributto

0x184 2-

watt

Survey, Bial on

ЗАРСАН

1/35/4

0:000

---

