# 104-10320-10058

## Page 1

104-10320-10058

1D/05-385

OGC 75-2491

8 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Administration

Associate Deputy Director for Operations

Associate Deputy Director for Science and Technology

Associate Deputy Director for Intelligence

SUBJECT

Eugene B. Dinkin v. Department of Defense and Central

Intelligence Agency

1. This Office has recently received a copy of a complaint filed on 26 June

1975, against the Department of Defense and this Agency in the United States

District Court for the Eastern District of New York by Eugene B. Dinkin.

Mr. Dinkin is seeking damages based upon a belief that a Warren Commission

document (No. 943) entitled "Allegations of PFC Eugene Dinkin re: Assassina-

tion Plot" is a misrepresentation by CIA and DOD of the facts surrounding his

assertion in 1963 of prior knowledge of the assassination of President Kennedy -

2. I would appreciate a response früm your office on the existence of

any files or records on Eugene B. Dinkin by 21 July 1975. Should there be

a delay in complying with this request or should you have any questions, please

contact me on x7503 or x1395 (red) .

Exile I. Jetion

EMILE L. JULIANO

ce of General Counsel

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TO

-IN CLISSIFICATION TOR AND BOTTOM

SECKET!

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

HA/DDO

10 JUL 7975

C

c/cil is

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

1-3

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

AcT

for

3-5 You may wish

Paul Hartnan

to

thing.

on the Warren

onsula with

C/CI

commissio

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

Emile I. Julian/OGG, 7D07 Has •e

UNCLASSIFIED

7503

CONFIDENTIAL,

FOIN KA

i am i gy

237

Use previous editions

• 4109: 10106).

DATE

7/10/75

SECRET

(40,

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

155-75

NEMORANDUCI FOR:

ATTENTION

Office of General Counsel

Mr. Emile L. Julian

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Eugene B. Dinkin v. Department of Defense

and Central Intelligence Agency

Your memorandum to the Associate Deputy

dated & July Opera songe colas 5504e.

Your memorandum was referred to the Counterintelligence

Staff for action.

In it you inquired about the existence of

any files or records on DINKIN.

2, Attached are copies of all pertinent documents and

cables concerning Eugene B. DINKIN. These are part of the

Any proposed use of the 'attachments or the information

contained in them will require coordination with this Staff,

which will of course want to sanitize them:

Attachments:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

George T. Kalaris

Chief

Counterintelsigence Staff

BERN 2397,

7

Nov. 63

BRLN 4752,

8

Nov. 63

BERN 2405,

8

Nov. 63

DIP. 85270, 29 Nov 63

XAAZ-17618, 19 May 1964

SECRET

63-41

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET,

Kared ba

SCIRA/Paul Hartmen

18- July, 1975

Distribution:

Orig &

1

]

1

OGC

ADDO

C/CI/IS

09N CI/IS nametrace file

- CIRA M.?. Hartman

iS chrono

SECRET;

63-5

---

## Page 5

13-00000.

SUBJECTEd (Optional):

FROM:

TO: (Omen designation, room number, ond

2.

3.

5.

7..

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

I will

15.

AC/CI/IS

C/CI/IS/PA

CI/EXO

AC/CI/IS

cilis-la

— USE ONLY

* Nai

) ROUTING AND RECORD SHERI

DINKIN, Eugene B

(OGC

•Case

#75-2491)

EXTENSION

2 C 293

NO

R-1659

DAlE: 16 October 1975

DATE

RECEIVED

1 FORWAROLO

OFFICER':

NITIAL

OMMENTS (Numbs roch comment

1795%

120 bet.

4.32

Distribution:

Orig - Routing wetts-filed ton

FOIA File

CHIS/Chrono w/o att

X-ref:Warren Commission

indianant nine, "i do it,

Re OGC request concerning DINK

• (OGC 75-2497) - on.16. July, I/

received the attached transmitta

slip from OGCg/asking C/CI/IS to

act for the DDOsaT passed, thel

request to Paul: Hartman on /2

118 July, and he, and I prepared

a, response the same date pis

(CI 155-75). This package was

misplaced in one of my safes.

On 30 July there is a note to

the effect that CI/EXO was

handling the matter, for CT Staff

On 29 August, Diana Porter

recorded the following:

"CI/EXA-office called-saying

they had had. an inquiry res

regarding, OGC case #75-249T=

(DINKIN) stating

'that CI: Staft

was onty. component still out-

standing. on this. request...I

took our completed file to.

CF/EXO, which- indrcated CI/EXT:

was office of control. CI/EXO

remembered case and is checkin

his records and will reply to

OGC."

There is no record of any reply

from CI/EXO in our files, so I

do not know whether the five

documents attached to CI 155-75

were in fact passed.

Attachments

610 134

PREVIOUS

4116

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

IMPOET CL EY_01 1 622

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED!

---

