# 104-10071-10004

## Page 1

104-10071-10004

]

UNCLASSIFIE-

SAL

USE ONLY

L CONGOENTIAL

L SECRET

ROJIING AND RECORD SHEET

SUB:ECT: :5phanol)

Ci Biographie Summary on:

FROM

Roward ZINN (291-138730)

PiO.

6537

DA?

EX 1183 (rewrite of one dated

CATE

19 July 1967)

26 pr 68

COMMENTS (Number noch comment 1a. show from whom

10 whom.

Diom o line ocross column aiter aoci comment.)

¡CAMAICIO

Prepared by:

03

CI STAFF INTERVAL

USE ONLY

Ci/ OP

ROber

TO: ¡Oscar designation, room numom, and

building)

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CES

Distribution:

1 - Subject's file

1 - CI Task Group Biographic

Summaries

•1 - Orig. for Final Report Typin

CI STAFF INTERNAL

USE ONLY

510 45ANGE E SECRET

J CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

7185

UNCLASSIFIES

---

## Page 2

14-00000 .

SECRET

CE INTERNAL USE ONLY

Acuzite o:

26 April 1966

SUBJECT: zail, Howard (201-798730)

1e: Howard ZINN 1s an advisor of the Radical Ecucition Freject

end a contributor to Rampurts magazine. Born at Auguei Iles in Xiew Yoris,

Jes TOrk, LIKE 1s E proressor and an author. Ee 1s tas son of Edwara

(DFCE: 1899, Austria) end Jeanie ZINi (DPOB: LESE, RUSSIA), DeS

RABINOWTIZ, and the brother at Jerry ZINI. Subjeci was barried to Rosiyy

ZIKY (DPOB: 2 December 1922, New Yart City), nee: ScHecHar on 30 Octabo

1914. He was issued passport number P285869 an 26 April 1965 at Boston,

Massachusetts.

2XHN's educational end employment bistory are as follous:

Educatlon:

Bobo, New York University, 1951;

Maro, Columbla Universitys 1952;

Ph-Do, Columble University, 1958.

- Ba

ployment:

Instructor oi history and political science.

• Upsala College, last Orange, lied Jersey, 1953-1956;

Lecturch in history, Brooklyn Callege, 1955-1956;

Chairman, Departmeni O1 History, Social Science,

Professor, Spalman College, Atlente, Georgia, 1955-1963;

Felloi, Harverd University Center fOr East Asian Studies:

1960-1952;

C. INTERNAL JER ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000 •

SECRET

Associate Professor o Governant, Boston University»

1964-68.

IaN" served in the U.S. Army AlT Force Arom 1943 to 1945. Be is

presently un advisor of the student lion-Violent Coordineting Couritter

(SIC) and is he sutro of SUCCs Ta New Aboltionistsi Is Southern

Mystique; In Quardia In Congress; and au article In thn December 1965

issue o Bamports entitlo¿ "Ol I'iEb ani Fisheriea" 2I10 resides E

24 George Street, Horton, Massachusetta, end lis business andreas de 235

Bey State Road, Bostos, Massachusetts

2= AccordinE to reports Iron the FBI, TIMi do E former melber of

the Communia: Party uno is presently involved with severad leftist asi/e

paCIzat Orgization. IN AprII 1950, ZINi WaS e BpOnser of & lieu forli

City testinocial dinner honoring Herbert Milkkal and the second amiversery

of the Anilcan Institute for Murstst Studies (AUS) (described by an 7BI

nounce as e counst forty organestion) He was Listed in the "an

Newsletter as the featured speaker for the Its senstori, 3 May 1907, of a

seminar on "triot and Contenporary Froblems" held at Harvard University.

The seudnar was sponsored by AIMS and Students for e Denocratic Society (SD).

•In 1965, ZUl attended a tench-al at western Reserve Universitys

supported the Forender Peace Mobilizition, served us & sponsor of the

Decenber Rationel Student Anti-iar Perioy I4 Cuicago, attenied i sunr

poses conference in taper with Protessor Muray LEVil, End denounced U-5.

policy and "butcher" in Vietnan in eppearances as liaryura Ela! Edaton

Universitie ding wrich ZIll stated that the U.s. was the min segressor

113 Vietnan, IN July 1965, LINi was & sponsor oi tbe Aiexanan Detened

comitisee, ar, organicition forea to publicize ani provia. fundi fo ta:

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

35gui defense di Dio Noville ALixAllia ena bis associates the vere cor..

victed of erines against the povermoni di south Africa. (Ene hierarico

Defense Cocrittee was oricred by the U.s. Departeent d Justice to regster

Defense Cormitter, Is alsO a senter co th: Impinantation Comittee or tis

Rudical Education Eroject.)

Al FaI source advised thet on 26 May 1900, a neeting a thi Foster:

Hussachusettà Socialist Workers Party (Sai, cliá ly un Attorney Gebera)

vas called as a menorial to Ico BRIRD, & SIP newer assussinated 19

Detrodt on I5 Vey 1956.

At this meeting, & letter wae feed iron tIll ia

which be steted that the murder or BERMARD vas tie result oi the *all ta

"coende" " 11-020ey tunt ZIll described ee populer in the United Stetcas

In addition, the 23 June 1966 166ue dE The Militest, veekly anapaper of

the SHI, Printed & letter Ion ZIHA In connection ith a muorial t'or

BERWARD 11 Which Will steted that BBRARD was the Mictle oi the "'artica

enti omnisn which has beel so deep a peri of the psychology do this.

country for e jong tine."

DurRE 1957 ZIRI spoke at many enti-Vieta ver functions. Enose

Luctried:

9 Februery

12 APTI]

15 Apesi

a Flettan "teaci:-in" held 1a

Cartridge, Asssachsette,

sponsores by tir lus Committee

to End the Her 10 Vietner;

an anti-Vietnan ralli, bela at laug

à meeting co the Sprine Noidmaios

(As dras bine do callsa for support

0f the Metron Sunara Projeci)

3

---

## Page 5

14-00000.

SECRET

16 OciobsE

s pubis ant dealt proice

detonatration, hold in tosta.

Massachusetts;

21 Hoverber

ená an anil-Vietnan ven tectre,

belù in Brocios, Massachsetto.

Re mos also ane di the SACEVY aslogates who demnded to see the

Presideni of the Undicd States, on 17 ily 1967, concerning the Vietnam

wari ani drine 1200 Le bad reparichly i resoer al the MitiOnal Maoil120-

tion Contine to Ená the lar in Vintran

In: DeCember 1907 ZINE ENd ETDOOL I. YOUt, AnGistant PrOFeSSOr O

History at Dartsover: College, vere involved lu the defection in tepan of

four US lany sunlore fron the aircuti canier Intropie, Zia, according

tO s CLi report, receiTed a telephone call froa Yoshijul ISuRla, i sca

ber of BebeireD, thn Japenese Pence-for-Vietnen Conaittet, sho aäriaca

ZINE Eat the sailors hud approached Beheiren for bein, (ZiN bad

reportedly spolen aù anti-Vietnan var rallies in Jepen daring the

sumer ai 1l0 and was knowu to have fiven support, to the bebeiren cors

ment.) The caller asked ZIli to surrest the nan of a represertativo ci

the US pesce moverant no voule be willity to trevel to fokyo eni sct as

al DOSErVEs in the care. ZINI recomended YOUNt, who agreed to taise the

trip after having been telephoned by LINi, YOus srived in lago on

E Hovember 1951 and subsequently inlied with the sasiors for several bours.

2INH ister said that the trip vae peid tor by tic Jepanese peace ove

but yang reportedly cisiued that the boney cam: can liberction superine.

LATE DETAINER (201-316709), ECITOr OF INDETECiON BEGGELDS,

Entertaid at li had received a tilagrun Inos Esnoi on 25 Jamuary 1900,

20 the Vietain Peaco Parade Conitwo, Inviting hid so send to rogeo

sentative to Kanoi for the rolsass of tuse Abricar pilot, No stacca

SEGRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SEGRET

that the tho representatives, chosen by the Camittee for support of

Released Priscuerô, were her. Deniel BARRIGAN and PEON, EOVERd RIN.

BERRIGAN end MINi reportedly left on 31 Jamory 1958 en route to Copezaagia,

Bunkok, and then to Vientians, Inus, where they were wei by representetives

of in International Control CommissiOn wao arrangei their tileni te baue

CA JADUSTY 1900 the tures AneriCan pilOtS, NOMiE PLeT OVERLA, FOED

David BLACK, SDd Paul MATHENY, WerE put 11 CustOdY OI LI and BARPICAL

by the Noric Vietzeneße In Banoi.

ZINH was among the signers of a statement union appeared. in &

Resist sponadrei leatlet entitled "Stuterent of Support I0r:

Benjamin

SPOCK, MiChAel FERBER, WilLian BlOnE COPFIE, NaTCUS RASIl, Mitchell

GOODMAN," A quote Iron the statement follous: "ie stani veside the bar

woo have been indicted for support of craft resistence."

3: I'ht files of this Agency reflect thet ZIMl is the former

employer of David HEISH who le presently connected witt: the stare ai

Ramparte magazine. In June 1206, ZING and SIC Leader Eelat FEAIEERSIOLS

conducted e lecture tour in Japan that ver sponsored by Benefreu, an enti-.

U.S. Vietnen palloy orgenization. All Of the Japanese participating 1n

this lecture tour vere reportedly leftists und/ar former sembers of the

Communist Purty di Japan. In April 1967, ZINI WaS E spedler ai the

Hew York City rally of the Spring Mobilisation Comittes t0 End the vei

in VIetnan. During bie speech, ZINi reportedly colled for acta di civil

disovedience to lorce the Uniica Stiles Out of Vicines.

5

PENDET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SEGRET

Based on:

202-790730%

0502-316-05511-67, 23 Decender 196%

163

8259, Il 34709 10 June 1955:

I-42362, 1 February 1965;

FI Irace Resulta, Fo. 299, Il April 1967;

0/5 Interim Report, 16 May 1907;

Filo's Viho In America, Vai. 34, 1965-29575

Ios Angeles Eines, 23 November 1967;

Tew Yoris Times, 13 AprIl 1957.

130-10110, 7 March 1968.

03

CIƠP/DO

26 AprIl 1953

---

## Page 8

14-00000-

CORTACTS:

Cambridge, Massechusetts.

D033, Phan Sa Pery er (202-210957) - 2a1 talked to him while in bamos,

EGI ESCH,

Hick (201-826532) - Both spoke at an Butt-draft rally, bele or

16 October 1967, at Boston, Mascaciusetta.

AYDEl, Thonas Ennett (201-797791) - Both attended anti-Vietnas pres:

conference, bold on 31 Januery 1968 in Hew York City

KING, Martin lather (201-760966) - Both spobe at a rally sponsored by

the SCEW held on 15 April 1967 1n Heu York CIty.

SPoCK, Benjenda De. (201-827677)

(connected with the Spring

nobilization Camittoe to Bud

the lag It Vietnan)

CARCHARLy Stokely

DAT

MEMBERG, Linda

LETTy Gilberto

NCKIRBICK, Floyd

ROBESCA, CLevelana

BUA, Pedro Juan

TRORA, Pete

DACHS, FELI

SEGRET

7

---

