# 104-10106-10300

## Page 1

104-10106-10300

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Yurily Ivanovich NOSENKO

IDENTIFICATION:

BACKGROUND

:

==:

APPROVAL

NOSENKO, Yurily Ivanovich, a Soviet

KGB officer who defected in 1964 and

was subsequently involuntarily con-

fined in the U.S. by the Agency for

a period of approximately three

years.

NOSENKO first contacted Agency per-

sonnel in Switzerland in June 1962

and subsequently defected in January

1964. NOSENKO was brought to the U.s.

and after a period of relative freedom

he was involuntarily confined in

April 1964.

From April 1964 to

August 1965, he was confined at an

Agency controlled site in Clinton,

Maryland.

From August 1965 to

October 1967. NOSENKO was confined

_Virginia. In October

1967, he was returned to the Washington

area, given increasing amounts of

freedom until he was given total free-

dom in April 1969.

U.S. citizen in April 1974. NOSENKO

was

employed by the Agency as a

consultant in March 1969 and continues

under contract to date. His present

salary is $23,500 per

year.

(1) The legal basis to confine NOSENKO

against his will was discussed by

Mr. Richard Helms, DD/P, and others with

the Deputy Attorney General on 2 April

1964 (Tab 1). On 3 April 1964, the

He memor advise one director emer

Agency General Counsel, Mr. Lawrence

Houston, advised the Director of Security

by memorandum that such confinement was

(2) There are a series of letters from

the DDCI, DCI and others to various

agencies, including the Department of

Justice

and the White House,

covering

the period 1964 to 1969, evidencing

awareness of these agencies of the

NOSENKO affair (Tab 3).

Secury crabs no.

(3) The conditions of NOSENKO's confine-

ment were established by the Office of

---

## Page 2

• -

RESULTS

TERMINATION

COMMENTS

:

-

By memorandum dated 2 October 1968,

the Director of Security forwarded

two reports to the DDCI summarizing

the results of the NOSENKO case to

that date. The reports are voluminous.

One was prepared by the Office of

Security and the other by the FBI.

Both reports conclude that NOSENKO

was a bona fide defector.

A draft

memorandum attached to this file,

dated 21 October 1968 and prepared

by the cl staff,

raises question

regarding NOSENKO's bona fides

and challenges the above two reports.

NOSENKO continues under contract to

the Agency: He is brought to Washington,

periodically to consult on matters

germane to his background and experience.

Various reports are available in the

files of the Office of Security which

detail financial aspects of this case.

No final accounting has been made since

the project continues.

(1) While the Office of Security files

do document the rationale for the original

confinement of NOSENKO, they do not

document the rationale

for his continued

confinement over so long a period of time.

A memorandum dated 5 August 1969 states

that various congressional staff officers

were briefed on NOSENKO and states that

concern for his safety, as well as con-

cern regarding his bona fides, prompted

the prolonged confinement. (See Tab 6)

(2) Office of Security files document

a period in 1969 during which a mail

cover was placed on NOSENKO.

(3) During the above period, NOSENKO

was allowed

a pleasure trip to Florida.

During this trip, Agency personnel, with

apparent Headquarters approval hibtained

the services of prostitutes.

apparently occurred on at least two

occasions.

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

..

iC

FILES

:

Office

of Security files on NOSENKO

are maintained in the following

locations:

OS/SSD (Contact - Mr. Charles Phalen)

OS/SAG (Contact - Mr. Bruce Solie)

a is trin

3

---

## Page 4

SEBAST

EVER PILY

Z. April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUSJECT:

Discussion with deputy Attorney

General on Nosenko Case ..

#I helas, is Houston and Mi. Murphy net

with

the Daputy Attorney General and neubors of his staff to

discuss subjoct case.: Present fros Hr. Katzenbach"g-

staff vera Messis. Foley, Yeagley and Rois..

Z: HI. Helas explained the Nosenko case briefly

and indicated that shortly ve would be faced with what

we at least considered to be two problens on which we

would like the advice of the Department of Justice.

First, ve would sooon feel compelled to begin hostile

interrogation of Mosenko in odor to arrivo at the truch

with respect to hig aission for the KGB and ve wondered

what the

legal position would be in circunstances in

which ve detained Nosenko against his will for this pui-

pose. Second, we would have to be ready after determin-

ing: that we could ootain no additional infomation fron

Nosenko to deport him. He had thought of taking hin to

Gormany and transferring his to Soviat custody in Borlin

where this has been done a number of times in the past.

There was sone discussion of whether deportation.

to another country night be a consideration. Mt. Halas

explained we would probably face publicity problens in

deporting to a third country of the kind we would

counter if ho vero free in the U. S. Nr. lle las noted

thore were many itens of information which we and the

FBI raalize

are of no significance because of the file

holdings-ve have but which an unscrupulous narspaper sau

could use to creato nischief.

This aspect was then dropped

and it was the consensus. that

Berlin was probably the best

place.

The question of the basis for detention was again

and related by Mi. foldy to the conditions under

which Nosenko is in this country. He is hore as an "ox-

CluSion and

parole case" which neans he has not been

admitted

has been paroled to the Agency which is

responsiblo for hin while ho is in this country. This

BEANET

DIES DILY

---

## Page 5

ki.:1

BLOTT

EVES ("V.

parolo can be interpreted to mean parole to a spacific

localo which would provide sone justification for our

dotaining hia for questioning

It was then pointed out,

however, that if he said he wished to leave the country

to saturn to the Soviet Union, tochnically ve would not

bo able to datain his further.. In this event, we vould

bo faced with the need to deport his quickly and quietly

and for this purpose the innigration varrant of arrest.

and deportation

was probably the best instrument.

5.:

His. Katzonbach asked Mr. Foley to check into

this and Ar. Foloy will in turn contact Mr. Houston.

MI. Houston will in turn discuss the problem with CIA

Offico of Security officials to got the background-of

thair liaison with the INS on these matters.

Ni. Helms thanked. Mi. Katzenbach for his assistance

and un departed anid sone jovial banter with respect to

*The Spy Who Camo in Fros the Cold" about what we expected

to happon to hia when he started to clinb over that "vall"

in Berlin.

David E. Hurphy

Chief, SR Division

$ 0.L7

---

## Page 6

14-00000

---

## Page 7

0/5B

OGC 64-0903

3 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR.

Director of Security

SUBJECT:

Parole Status of Defectors

1. On 2 April 1964 we had a discussion with the Department

of Justice on the status of aliens whose inspection by I&NS is deferred

upon arrival at our request and who are then paroled to this Agency.

It sas the position of the Department of Justice that we were responsible

for taking any action necessary to carry out the terms of the parole.

• Z. As you know, a basic parole agreement was executed by the

Attorney General and the DCI on 10 February 1955. After setting up

conditions for authorizing parole in any one case, the agreement states:

"After parole of such aliens, the Central Intelligence Agençy will assume

responsibility for care, supervision and control of a kind and degree it

believes consistent with the internal security needs of the United States

during continuance of their parole status. " This means that the

responsible Agency officials must take the minimum action necessary

. to protect the internal security needs of the United States. The word

"minimum" is not necessarily a limitation. It merely means that good

judgment must be used as to what kind and degree of action is necessary.

3. The agreement further provides that upon completion of the

parolee's intelligence or operational purposes in the United States or if

internal security reasons so require, the alien will be removed from

this country through arrangements made by the Agency and, in such

case, the Agency will inform the Service in advance of each proposed

departyes

para

1 declasstes

by AAL on

19 Sept 78

Kawrence

R.H

AWRENCE R. HOUSTON

General Counsel

CC: DD/P

C/SR

---

## Page 8

14-00000

intense

---

## Page 9

Tanuary 1975

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. Information that NOSENKO had defected and was in the United

States in February 1964 was known to appropriate agencies and articles

had appeared in the public media.

2. NOSENKO was in the United States under an I&NS parole as

the responsibility of CIA. The FBI was fully advised of the presence of

NOSENKO in the United States and interviewed NOSENKO on several

occasions in March 1964. The United States Intelligence Board was

also formally advised on 12 February 1964 concerning the defection of

NOSENKO. On 14 February 1964, NOSENKO was interviewed by Soviet

in the presence of I&NS and State Department officials

officials/and NOSENKO reaffirmed his previous request for asylum in

the United States.

---

## Page 10

rio.

SEGRET

• 9 OCT 1569

ER•69-5003/1

MI. Rayscond IM Farrell

Cormissioner of Immigration

and Naturalization

Department of Justiced

Washington. DECk

Dear Mr. Farrell:

5 SUBJECT: Yurly Ivanovich NOSENKO

Par suant to the authority granted under Section 7 of

the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended,

I approve and recommend for your approval the entrance

- of sabject into the United States for permanent residence

mission.: In accordance with previons corespondence in

Saction 7 cases,. it is understood that you will present this

matter to the Attorney General for bis approval.

Sirice his defection in February 1961, the subject has

provided valaable information to this Agency and he will

contime to be of value in the future.;

-Sabject has been investigated abroad and hare over a?

period of five years and bas submitted to a technical inter-

rogation. The question of bona fides is a contiming one and

should any information be developed dafinitely disproving his

bona fides, it shall be mada available to your Service and the

Attorney Genaral.

63989 1

Speladed Tom aurastiz

coungradian tad

---

## Page 11

-SECRET

Isure are enclosed fores flas and backgrouse data, i

Is duplicata

n subject.

L Stassrely,

* Fichard Hainsa

• 3536491

BINÁTORE:

Is/ H. J. Osborn:

Director of Security

8 October 1969

-Bat*

Г. Зіgвоr"= прру

1 - 30M

33 DiT.

EI Stall

23P

0s Fles

SERRET

---

## Page 12

td-innon

saes eta gontae.ot

Yuriy Ivanovick NOSENXO (Aka: Yuri NOSSENKO)

30 October 1927

Male

Soviet

Divorcod

Nicolayer, Uxraise, USSR

Br0wn

Biue/ Gray Sit. 1l inches

Caucasian

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Tarl N036

13 - Arena

:42

25 7A 1953 - Married India Falaa

2547 1069 - 6002444

MILLARIE

HARONAIRA

PRESERT AND FAST

FDLINICAL ATTI

NATIONS.

Catesia-

TIE OHION LIEUTENANT MEET

÷4".

1942-1949 - Aroscoe mcious BSJa, burst

Beneata

1955-195510

So Moreas

March 195 3ay0 1935 - 31rds1 Hara Bi

fames lassligaerela

FESS

Manch 1933-5ebrnry 1954 - 014ce Ba Kan

intens in 3039, Mary Whur la seusal no

Shang Ba servie

Bertes

1947-1954 - 352s2902 Serssm Faes

1RS÷

1357-1955 - Mister Freise FarT DSE8

SECRET

Encirced Pis juicea

---

## Page 14

SEGRET.

SP-1687

1 8 JUL 16

MI. Raymond. E Farre

Convalssioner of immigration

and NaturaliZation

Departnent of Justice!

Washington

Attention:

¿E. Bartoa

: Dear Sir:

SUBJECT: Yury Ivasovich NOSSENKO

-SERENE

Reference is made to previous correspondence

in this case.

"Saujeet continues to it uf operational interest

to this Agency. Therefore, it is requested subject's

parole to this Agency be extended for an additional.

period of six. (6) months beyond the expiration date of

his stay of 16 August 1969.

Your cooperation in this ratter is very much ap-

preciated.

OS/AAS/LW:es

Sincerely,

STCHED :

Victor R. White

Deputy Director of Security

(lavestigations and Operational Support)

16 July 1969

NOT TO BE DISSEMGLATEO FURTHER OR SYMBINED

TO ANYONE WORONE PRIOR PERMISSION OF THE

CENTRAL ISTELLIBENCE AGENCY.

SECRET

G33JP 1

designes, ent

declarsires is

---

## Page 15

ROUTINE ONENRECORD SHETT

SUBJECTE, (Opriatol) 33

FROMENA

TO: oneer desig

•building).:

Chief

, SR. Division

Te numbor.

BraNSION

-5777

2 DATE TONG

OFFICER'S

ACTION FORWARDEN

INITIALS

177429

DD/OS

2 13 February 41964S20

2-tr mist.

COMMENTS (Number dach common 1o thor

amos ken?

o whoma. Drow a lingcacross colum

HENSE MET

STOPS SECRETS

BY HANDS

15.:

FCAM

EDITIONS

SECRET

790. BEANET

EYES ONLY

L CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 16

TOP SEAF

EYES. ONLY

II February 1954

MENORINDUW FOR:

SUBJECT:

a. NeSeorge Suady

Juri: Iranovich HOSENkO

This monorandua refars to tha State Dapartzaat

rolaase of 10 February an subject case and provides addi-

tional background as wall as infornation en his currenz

5171251

AS a IG8 Staff officer, NOSENIO iS zagularl

assigaed is the Counterintelligance Directorete of the -

XG8 in Moscos bus was included in the Soviet delegation

to tha Disaraneat Coaforenco as part of a cover arranga

ment which persitiod hia to carry out intelligence and

sacurity funczions in Geneya on boball of the 303.:

Ja: NOSENKO also

attended various sassions or the

Disaraaneni Conference hold in Genova In 1962 During-

cha.course. of theso SOSSious NOSENKO sought contact with

officials of the l.S. Governaent, infored those officials

that: he nas affiliated with the Soviet State Security ap-

paratus sad volunteorod to aid tho U.S. Goraraont in.

datecting Soviet subversive activiry directed against tha

During the course of his contact sith

U. So authorities NOSEYXO stazed that bis cooperation tita.

2as U. S. Corerazant originatod with his distaste and hatrod

for tha Sovlet rozise is geasral, wità his desire to obtain

Torangs for the unjust doath of his father,

'I senior dificial

in cho Sorisz shipbuilding induszzy, and with the genoral

chiTaLion ci tha Agericans

with whon he had come is con

tact rithin the Soviaz Union.

In lato Januaty 1964, NOSENIO arrived in Sonava,

again aasquerading as a member of the Soviot dol-gation

Io tha Disarinent Conference.

Subject sacretly aozified

his CIA contacts in tha United States conceming his pres-

onco in Genera and arranged to seet with thase contaciz.

During a serios di sootings NOSENKO proyided information

includiaz documents concorning Sovlet Staio Security acti

vitias virnin the USSR and abroad and a detailad account:

For stato Security (163) -

END ONLY

---

## Page 17

14-00000

3. UHLY:

e. ?

During these nost zocent seetings NOSENKO announced

his desirs to laayo the uss? parmanently and seek his futura

In tho Nest.

lie clained his new bors in the 1b (FiIst.:

Daputy Chisf of thar dapartaani charzed with the suzvolllanca

and accruitsent of Anerican visitors to the USSR) vas or.

paading and that he would not do able to visit the test:

with any fragaency. Accordingly; ho prepared a roquest for

political asylus in the leirod States. He sas taken to

It should do notad that CIA contact with Subjact.

has sor boan extaasive and chat we vill requiro additional

cerned sith substantive aspects of the Disarument Conference,

and he inarefore is not expected to be able to shod such, i£

any, light on that aroa of our interest::

The possibllizy thas *OSaAxo"s dofeczion sas de-

signed to wrock the conference sas nost carefully considered.

Too decision so accept his yas taken on tho conviezion that

the Soriots would not have chosea such a yalnerable agent

(stall offices of the 153) for this tind of soys,

13025 h Aarasessinos

For Plans

CSR/DEH/jif 0 11 Fob 64

Distribation:

Orig - Adse

Z ce - SR/CI/K-DarDeT

• C/CI

1

CSR

CE - DD/OS

IMP SENDEL

EVES DALY

---

## Page 18

14-00000

t1L) UNLI

ENTRAL iNTELLIGENCE AGENC

WASHINGTON 25. D.C.

OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLGENCE

12 Fabraasy. 1964

NEZORWNOUN FOR:

SUSJECT]

United Statos Intolligence Beard Heabers

Just Ivanovich NOSERIO

=.

Inis senoranda JOfars In the State DepartaenE

Tolaaso of 10 Fabiuary on subjeci casa and providos addi-

Cional backgrouad as woll as inforzazion on his curient:

5*22193%

2o As a I55 stall officor, NOSENTO is regularly

assignad io sha Counterinzelligenes Directorase of tho

Ica. In Moscow but yas included in the Soviot dalegation

acht shich peraitted hia to carry out intelligence and

security funccious in fanaya on behalf of the X63.

NOSENKO also attended various sossions

Disarmason? Conforence hold in Genezz in 1962..

During

coursE al thase sessions, NOSENKO sought contact with

officials of the J. S. Goveranent, inforded These officiais

that. ho was affiliatod with tha soyier stato Security ap

detacting Soriot subverairo activity directed against the

B, Ss Gororanant: During sue course of his

3. СодЕзес місь

U, Sy anchorities, NOSEND statod that his cooperation rita

the U,S. Gorosrasas originazed vich his distasto and hazzad

for lie Soviot Jogino in saneral, with his dosize to obtain

Izvengo for too unjust cench of sis fatheis a senzor 011icia1

in the soviet shipbuilding industry, and with she genera

admiration of sha Aericans wich waca he had come in con

tact vichia the Sorist Union.

In lars Janiary 1984,

ROSENED arrivad in Geneva,

szain masquarading as a zesbar of tha Sovia? delagation

so tha Disaraaaani

Subject sectorly notified

his ill conracts in the United stalas cancerning his prog

anEr in Consa 3od arrangod ID acet tito those contaces,

During a serios of meetings Nosairo provided infornation

including docuenis concoming Soviet Saree Secutidy aci

vitios witsin the iSsR and abroad and i detailad account

FOr 3u5.

1701

---

## Page 19

DIS

ONLY

of the ISD aperItion against U. S. Professor sarzaooIn

which YOSENIO said he hai personally sugarised at the

diraction DE SEMICHASIAIY

, the Chairas of the Conaistes

fOI SEaTE SACHILLY: (KGB)*

So. During these nost recent sootings HOSENTO nouceS

his desire to leave the USS? perzarently and seek his future

in tho dest :Lo: clained his new work in tha 158 (First

Đoputy Chief of

panding and that he sould not be able to visit the Host

with any frequeney.

Accordingly, he prepared I request for

polttical asylu in the Tailed States. He was Iaken.50

Frankfart, Goraany thore he is curtently undergoing interro-

Plans are non being nade to renove him to the be S.

I: should be noted that CIA contact sith Subjaci

-has not beor extersive and that sa will require additionai

thorough interrogation to establish Subject's bona fidos.

It shoald also be notod that MOSENdO's duties saro aot cou-

"carned with substantive aspects of the Disaraanent Conferenca,

and he therefore is not expected to be sois to shed such, le

ay; lighi or that area of our interasi.

7a. Tao possibility that NOSENIOs defection vas de

signed to wreci. the conferance das nost carafully considared

The decision: to accopt his vas taken on the conviction that.

the Soviots sould noz have chosen such a valnarable agent"

(stall officer of the XGB) faT this Mind of move

Marshall S. Cartor

Lloutonant Ganeral, USA

Deputy piractor

ATED

1L7

---

## Page 20

"NosenRos" Account

Disputes Charge by Soviez

BI TAD SZULO-E

Detechone receded Repor

service." Ofticials off the Sute

• WASHINGTON, Feb.IT

7: Department, the • Central In

Yuri I: Nosenio told z•soi

Embassy-nftcialat.the

Apparently,

talligence: Agency and

the

Immigration and Nabiralization

frontation here-last Fri

. Ro

Seivice were aiso present.

he left.Switeriazd.on

Zar Nosenka was described a

to the. United- States 28-hours

having been completely relaxe

beforet hits'iden

ection' was re

during the interview. ye

ported

sslans.to.

the

with

_he is understood. to have.told

Swiss author

the Soviet, diplomat during their

the former

tou

staff officer 'ot-the Soviet Cora-

today:

arable defected ofs tiss

businesslike- conserence

that he

owIr: -volitio:

mitee DE State Securitra toelon the

8? without any outside pressures.

secret police appeared to amoust

¿The

His statements, it was report

to a deniat of

the Soviet charge, Gereva

on Inted, did rot allay Soviet resente

that the Swiss authorities. bad

the Sw

di fold ment agairst Swiss authörities:

been cegligact in preventing his 5.

cFes. Diplomatic reports reaching the

défection..

Mr. Nosenio.

who quit as 7

Bend

s miss- State-Department said that So-

manta:

state..viet. diplomats;in foreign.capi-

member of the Soviet delegation

to the Geneiz disarmament con-

Soviat:

ofTtheitals.continued.to-register-com-

re said plaints about zleged negligence

ference Feb: f

allowed. io

defeci

actual arter.Mr. Nösanko's confererce

: diblomat

with the Soviet diplomat:

here in thec

of. Tal

Lates offici

•The • State-Departmeat:

nounced atithe

time

cost patation was taliag, place

In: Washington a: the request o

ir. the

the: Soviet. Libassy,.

but: no

headqua

sting-

other details were made pubic.

tor. "fe

The department-said that a migration and ramaiization)

196÷

---

## Page 21

U.S. Lets Swiss

And Red Unyoys

Talk to Defector

Nosenko Agai

Voices Desire

For Asylum

•By-Chalmers

* stat

Soviet secret. police de:

tector. Yuri Is Nosenko is

in the United States where:

he-was interviewed yester

day by oficials of both the

Russian and "S wis's Em-

bassies::

Me 329h

The State Department said

each interview lasted less than

an bour ard that a Department

ollicial was present each time:

Roseniso reaffirmed his earlier.!

request; for:

aslyum. in. thos

United States and it will be?

granted.

State Dapartment sposesman

Richard, I. Pollips indiving:

out. this information, daclined?

to say, where the. interviews:

took place or to give any de

tails. Earlier her had said it

was. possible that: newsmen:

here. will be:allowed to talk

soviet Kicks up Eussis,

! These developments. came

as the Soviet Union kicked up :

a diplomatic fuss over the dis

appearance

of Nosenko on

Feb. 'from Geneva, where

ne had seen assigned as aa

"experc" in the Soviet delega-

tion at the 17-nation disarma-

ment

conference.

Phillpos

said he was "on temporary

duty from KGE. (secret po

ice) headquarers in Mos:

to jesterdas Moscow

had been directing its public

ciplomatic murai

at the

Swiss,

charging

them

with

i0os: security.

The provision

For a Swiss diplomat to inter-

res Josenko

was to

assure

the - Swiss

tha: the

United

States had taken part in no

iLegal ac: on teir soil.

The Swiss.

already

had

strongly rejected the

Soviet

charges.

On

Wodnesday, Phillips re-

See DEFECIOR, 15, Col. 1

flier.

---

## Page 22

103102 NUT1010

See Defector

ported

yesterday,

i Sovieticalle

•Erbassy messenger brought: a dor Fox

message to the State Depart- the

ment-asking

for information perni

the

DCA

anner in whica

esented hüm

he-

authorities

unity

irogis

replie

Uni

toäinterview.

De:

priva

oreign

Gro

date

ther

SUme

thenc

who--had?

crossed from Switzer

-was flown

;to

altris:

as.

the hands:o

ILigenceager

asesford

reyesterd

dowe the idea

articularly.

errany atomic

he Knew, any

said, be Wasta KGB start offi

thereshad been -no. word up to

cera security than operating.

last, nigh of the defection

last is? the Soviet practice ir

as tights compartment. & That

the Soviet radio on in: the

pressthough word of mouth

sould rear be, would! baze

reports- hads soreadel

through

useful and perhaps; important

the capitälin

knowledge oi partor the EGB

i was felt here that stascow

but probabiy, not much more.

¡ Believed Genutes

might have Stepped rup. its

protest: after- Tsarapkin,-had

It is assumed here? that

spuolicly: downgraded the case

tie

ün: Geneva: At any. rate

U.S.

36-year-old Nosenko is

uine deiector though the

gen- disarmament: negotiator Wil-

pos-

liam C. Foster and Tsarapkin

sibility of his being

doubleibeld

another. business session

agent has: not been:

overlook

ed.

It-also is: felt-

here

in Geneva yesterdar at which

that

the Soviet: "protest:

was

they said the case was not dis-

DO

cussed i.

sironger:..than?.could ..be

ex-

• It

also

was noted here

that

the

Soviet: Communist: Party

Central -Committee has been

precedented, was granted. in

meeting: in. Moscow- all ithis

hopes. or reciprccai treatment

week.

But whether the

No-

should. de occasior-arise.

senko case, syas, discussed ;was

Moscar Cipalciest

said!

not kinosva.

reciterare

this

---

## Page 23

4-00001

---

## Page 24

12 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR Acting chich, Support Branch DAf

FROM

Chief, Operational Support Division

SUBJECT

AEFOX TROT

#262 622

1EDS/ECS

ASS? /TOS

0/=)

6/770!

C;-3

C/=-

1/0153777

This memorandum is primarily for the record and will

record the essence of a meeting held on the morning of l2 May

1964, at which the following were presents Messrs.

Charles Kane,

Jack: Bauman;

OS- Dr Charles Bohrer, Medical Staff; Messrs.

Bagley,:

yar plovich (ps), McMahon and David Murphy, SR Division.

The essence of this meeting was furnished to the Acting

Chiet, Support Branch oa'12 May 1964, as follows:

Effective immediately or as soon as practicable, the following

procedures will apply with regard to the handling of the

• Subject:

Q) Subject will receive a regular diet with modest regulated

portions

n1922 20

He is to have no dessert or

'trimmings;

but may have the necessary silverware with which to

eat properly. (CAUTION--Extreme care should be

exercised with regard to controlling the silverware,

and it wastsuggested that at least two of the guards

be required to count the silverware in and out; that

the silverware be placed on the tray in a manner

where it could be observed before the guards enter

the room, etc.)

(2) Arrangements are to be made for the installation of

adequate air-conditioning equipment to insure that a

comfortable temperature is maintained. (It is under-

stood that there is quite a bit of equipment available

through Logistics channels.)

(3) Subject is to receive a bath; change of underwear;

change of uniform; and a change of linen for his bed.

1225

---

## Page 25

(4) Subject is to receive a haircut, the shorter the better.

ALEST

(5) Subject is to receive one cigarette on 12 May 1964.

NOTE

These changes with regard to the bath, haircut,

cigarette are not to-be considered as something to be

done on a regular schedule. We will await specific

instructions from SR Division as to when these items

are to be accomplished in the future.)

22224

Subject. only on Tuesday each week.

openice cats

(?)

In addition to the above, it mast be emphasized that

our attitude toward the Subject will remain precisely

the same

and our security procedures, including

searches, will continue to be at maximum control.

It was fu

Ither ascertained that we will have custody of

the Subject until at least July. It was suggested that perhaps we may

wish to explore some modifications in the assignment of personnel

or schedule of assignments. In addition, the Acting Chief, Support

Branch has suggested that immediate consideration be given to

devising necessary procedures to be followed in the event of an

emergency involving loss of control of the Subject.. This should

be discussed immediately with the responsible DFO supervisors

and specific procedures devised, and all guards properly inforred

as to-their responsibilities in this matter.

Jack M. Bauman

Bauman/ewd (5-12-64)

---

## Page 26

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

