# 104-10120-10373

## Page 1

104-10120-10373)

28 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROT!

:. Chief, SB/2 Desk

24

SUBJECT:

COVER,

_- GENERAI.

(Proposal for A&E Assessment of Potential

REDSKIN Agent Candidates)

#90682

1003,135

*=5125

1. Reference is made to my previous memorandum pertaining

to the subject as captioned, ending with the lemorandum for the

Record dated 21 February 1901.

As indicated in the referenced nemorandum, CCC feels

Usee copy of SR

memorandun-dated 3. February 1961 and my memorandum dated 21

Februar 1961) should not be utilized.

This decisionas made

as a result of a conversation between Mr. Howard OSBORNE,

Deputy Chief, SR Division, and Mr. Jack SOÜTHARD, Chief, CCG/NC.

3. A meeting was called on 27 February 1961 to determine

the type of cover organization that should be substituted for

this purpose. After considering the matter at length, it was

ascertained that the Agency has a cleared

service in

which could possibly be utilized as an initial

A&s assessment. This firm, the

is located in the Union Trust Building,

and is managed by

(see SSD File 95018).

It was agreed that if the

could

provide the needed cover,

two OIR psychologists would be docu-

mented in true name with that firm inl

70 CCG (Frank

O'MALIFY) will make a trip to

Join the next few days

to determine whether Miss

Tis amenable to the proposed

arrangement do The two psychologists selected were Doctors

BPADT and

Ton whom credit checks were recently completed

rath negative results as to Agency employment.

Комо поха!

It was further ascertained at this time that Nr.

OSBORiE desired that all training and assessment of

REDSKIN Agents who pass the initial screening be conducted

SECRET

10

-127

---

## Page 2

14-00000

...

outside the Washington, D. C. area.

liost of the training will

be conducted in an SR safe house in New York. The SR represen-

tative will probably request a safe house in Baltimore for the

process thirty or thirty-five REDSKIN Agents this year- time

is, of course, of the essence, in view of the fact that these

people will have t. be assessed, security-cleared, briefed,

and trained, and arrangements for grants made before the sumer

season.

Ва клу, - 3

KOHNKE /eird (2-28-61)

PENDING

cc: SSD #95018

2

wet that

Suiti

---

