# 104-10073-10045

## Page 1

104-10073-10045

21-8

11-1

SECRET ZEASTE AR TI CITE

117567 fri

DIRECT OR

28 APR IN 3 2 1 7 41

Lo UPI TICKER ITEM QUOTES GOVT SOURCE AS SAYING

THAT AMONG FIRST GOVT REQUESTS TO U.S. WILL BE RURAL

POL ICE. ADVISOR.; THIS IS FIRST MENT ION OF SUCH POSSIBLE

REQUEST, AND THERE NO CONFIRMATION VA" OFT ÍC TAL CHANNEL S

UNFORTSAT EL Y UPI MAN HAS LEFT TOWN BUT HE WAS IN CLOSE

TOUCHWITMMAX DOMINIQUE AND LAITER WAS THUS

POSSIEL Y SOURCE OF REPORT.

24

2. IF REQUEST MATERIAL IZES,

1L!

WILL ADVISE

FURTHER DETALS AS IMEY BECOME KNOWN.

S. NEW SUBJECT: RUINED A VID SON, PUÉLICIST

AND REGISTERED AGENT OF MAITIAN GOVI, WAS QUITE CONSPICUOUS

OVER WEEKEND MAIMTA LIAISON BETWEEN PRESS AND GOVI.

APPEARED TO BE ESPECIALLY CLOSE TO FRITZ AND MAX DOMINIQUE. '

DIFFICULT TO JUDGE AT THIS POINT WHETHER HE AS SOL IDLY IN

WITH NEW GOVT AS HIS PERFORMANCE OVER WEEKEND WOULD SUGGEST

OR WMETHER, IN UNDERSTANDABLE CONFUSION OVER HAVING SO MANY

FOREIGN JOURNAL ISTS ON HAND, GOVT WAS SIMAL Y MAKING USE OF

1::1.g

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

11

SECRET

z/PV

EATURE

GAND REPRODUCTIONE

---

## Page 2

4:00000

BLE SECRETARTAT DISSEMINATION

BON CAN TOTa

CLASSIFIED MESSADE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

#OUTINO AND ON INITIALS- SEEN BY

•CAN

le 291311374011

•BFD

FORWARDED

RIDIAY

FiLE, Vi

21-8

• PAGE 2

17967 SECRET

EXPERIENCED PUEL IC RELATIONS MAN WHO ABLE MAKE RIGHT KIND

OF DECISIONS QUICKLY ON HANDLING PRESS. AMCARBON/S SAID

DAVIDSON PER SONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR SETTING UP PRESS TOUR

OF PALACE AND DESSAL INES BARRACKS ON 26 APRIL, WHICH WENT

OVER VERY WELL.

4. AS HQS AWARE, DAVID SON IS OCCASIONAL ODENVY

INFORMANT AND HE THUS MAY BE WILLING COOPERATE WITH

WODISH IF NOT WOMACE.

S. NO FILE. INDEX DAVIDSON. GRI.

SECRET

APRILURE 24R7 REPRODUCTI

---

