# 104-10048-10124

## Page 1

104-10048-10124

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, Spec 161A497.

INFO.

TA SPECIAL COLLECTI

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

FROM

PROCESSING

ACTION

SAMARKED FOR INDEXIMO

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

ABSTRACT

PERRINT EE PA

PLISHED

Chief of Station, JMFAV

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

Special ActiVities RepOrt On MHAVE & RelatiOnShID With ANCARBON-1

ACTION REQUIRED, REJERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED:

Paragraph 10

REFERENCES

A.

B.

HAVE

8981,

dated 24 September 1962 Mi Nfrim a deL

HAVE 9169,

dated

28 September

1962 No Mjee di he

C.

WAVE 9343,

dated 2 October 1962 siu, uf di Sel

D.

DIR 40975

dated 6 October 196210 laseri

VEGA 14417, dated 4 March 1964-10 Made,

INTRODUCTION.

of the nature oi Its

relationship with

In Reference S'AMCARBON-2.

JIVAVE forwarded & review

This review

indicates that the relationship with AHCARBON-2 evolved from

action which was taken in September 1962 to insure that a security

breach would not occur as a result of an Investigation which was

being carried out by the Identity I relative to the fact that the

establishment of the Identity 2 was being kept from the YOBELT

South Campus as a result of security restrictions which were In some

way, related to JMDUSK.

While the relationship with AMCARDON-2

Irom the remedial action which had been taken in a crisis

situation,

the establishment of a working relationship with the

Identity

an objective which JYAVE had always hoped to obtain.

is a matter of fact In Reference A

the recommendation was made

chat JWAVE be given approvalto contact the major south Florid

news media in an attempt to work out a relationship with these news

media which would insure that they did not turn the publicity

spotlight on those KUBARK activities in South Florida which might

come to their attention.

with AMCARBON-2, It was

carrusin cultuated in order that JiNAVI

when & relationship was established

use this contact at the Identity 3 as a means of

achleving the objective of having a relationship with the Identity 3,

which would simultaneously insure the security of JuvAVE's operations

and gIve JMWAVE an outlet into the press which

could be used for

surfacing certain select propaganda ltems.. In the period October to

(CONTINUED)

Attachments:

A - Five Newspaper Clippinga

B - Identitles

Distribution:

3 - Chief, SAS, M/atts.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPEC

19 March 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE DISPATCHE

APRE

GROUP 1

Excladed from aufomatic

demagreding and

Ge lo leam

.UFGA-14781

"HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRIT

201-

OFFICE

COS

OFFICER

ORIGINATING

Andrew K, REUTEMAN/vtp

COORDINATING

251

# - RI Chrono

201 111e (0/COS)

1. COS Chrono

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

-22022+4

ORM 53

ESEC

Te le 64)

DUDLEY R.

EYE, TELLINGS

RELEASING

OFFICE SYMBOL

36€169

ANDREIV K. REUTEMAN

USE PREVIOUS EDMION. REPLACES FORM B1OS MAYH MAY BE USEO.

140) MAR 3 1 1968

---

## Page 2

13-00000

* CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

UFGA- 11781

all of slAVE's business with the Identity 3

In mid-December 1902, ANCARDON-2

made the suggestion that he introduce NCUTTHAN to

ANCARDON 1

in order that there be & hackup contact,

in the evont that

ANCARBON -2 were out of town or unavailable

at such times as

RUThAN might require assistance from the Idontity 3.

REUTEHAN

agreed to AMCARBON-2' g

and,

hosted a luncheon on 12 December

Hotel Columbus,

Ment, rlorida,

at which ANCARBON-? Introduced

AMCARBON-1 tO REUTELIAN•

As a rosult of this initial meeting on

relatlonship has

developed with

to the fulfillment of the over all JMYAVE mission.

this, a special activities report is being submitted to cover the

nature of JAVE!s

with ANCARBON-1 during the

period December. 1962 to Márch 1964.

FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR JIYAVE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH AMCARDON -1.

When

ANCARSON-2 Introduced ANCARLON-I to INUTCAN, ANCAIEON-Z

revlewed the ground rules under which he had been

cooperating

w1th REUTENAN.

This review was conducted for AMCARbON-l's

benefit, in order that he might clearly understand the frame of

reference which should prevail in his relationships with REUTEHAN.

In this review, AlCARDON pointed out that it was the policy

. of the Identity 3 that it would take no action which would

purposely embarrass KUBARK or its South Florida operations. As

• a result, 1f any

embarrassing 1tems relative to KUBARK's operations

•In South Florida did come to the attention of the Identity 3, this

material would be brought to REUTEMAN's Immediate attention.

AMCARBON -2 made it clear to AMCARBON-I that such items should be

REUTCHAN In & frank manner.

In addition,

the point that,

after an item was discussed, A CARBON 1

should follow REUMIAN's guidance relative

to how any particularly

mad ..

In addition, ArCARboN pointed out that,

If ANCARBON-1 brought

a potentially embarrassing Item to RCUTEMAN's attention and

remedial action on the matter was not taken, by REUIElAN within

, reasonable period of time.

then the Identity 3 would feel free

to expose any Ineptness on KUBARK's part.

AMCARBON -2 pointed

out that in return for this cooperation from the Identity 3,

REUTENAN had agreed that he would be available for contact by

telephone or periodic personal meetings at which AMCAREON-1

and ANCARBON 2 could discuss broad trends and developments in

Latin American affairs.

ANCARBON- advised AHCARBON-1 that this

arrangement did not mean that AlCARBON-1 could expect to obtain

any classified information from REUTOMAN.

The point was also

made that AMCARBON-1 should not press for the obtaining of

classified information, but he should be alert to steering tips

which REUTEMAN might furnish him on fast-breaking news stories.

ARCARBON I Indicated that he understood the frame of reference

which had been outlined by AMCARBON -2•

This frame of reference

has prevalled throughout JMYAVE's relationship With ANCAREON-1

during the period December 1962 to March 1964.

AMCARBON-1'S JOURNALISTIC CARMER.

ANCARBON-1 originally

started to work for the Identity 3 in 195% on the City Desk,

and subsequently advanced from this assigment to an assignment

which entailed covering major political developments in Florida.

At & later date, ANCARBON-1 became a feature writer for the

Identity 3.

Then In July or August 190k,

ANCARBON 1 was made

the Identity = Thia assignment was considered to be a signiticant

CI ISSIPICATION

PAGE NO.

FORM

8.80

(40)

530

UBE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CONTINUED

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DISPATCH.

JEGA -14781

promotion for ANCARBON-1

the Identity 3 manngement and It reflected confidence 1n him by

ANCARDON -1 1s by no means an expert

on Latin America, but he Is developing his knowledge on the area

and, at the moment, he gives every Indication of wanting to be a

Jong-term Latin American specialist.

QDELT has been questioned

• keen mind but who

It 19 QDELF's opinion that given an appropriate lapse

of time, ANCARDON I will develop into one of the leading Latin

American specialists in U.S. Journalistio circles.

has a worklog command of Spanish, and be 18

constantly attempting

improve his language fluency

It 1o RIUTEMAN's opinion

AMCARBON -I has developed rapidly as a Latin American specialist,

and he will continue to grow in this Ileld.

contact

who should be developed

and harnessed for exploitation, bearing

In mind that he does have long-term potential®

AMCARBON-1'S CONTACTS AND SOURCES.

In keeping with the

traditional pattern of source protection which is

common to

newspapermen,

intelligence officers and law

enforcement officers,

ARCARBON -1 attempts to guard the true 1dentity

AMCARBON-I has identified

On the other hand, when pressed that meaningful evaluations

to REUTENAN, In order

could be made of that information which ANCARBON-l had passed to

KUBARK ®

As a result of these occasional witting identifications

of his sources, and,

as a result of

general conversations with

ANCARBON -1,

REUTEMAN has learned that ANCARBON-1's sources include

the following persots:

#. Llls: *FERNANDEZ Rocha (201-316766), secretary general

of the DRE.

B. Manolo *RAY Rivero (201-239298), chief Of JURE.

C.

Carlos *TODD y Lobo (201-264141) of the defunct

Havana Times.

d. AMBIDDY-1 (201-267437)

•. Aureliano *SANCHEZ Arango (201-019245), leader of the AAA!

f. Edmund #LEAHY of the Washington News Bureau.

AMCARBON-1

recards this source as being particularly interesting,

of the fact that LEAHY's daughter is a secretary in the office of

Attorney General Robert KENNEDY.

Erank #FIORINI (201-242256), free-lance pilot and

adventurer.

h. Eduardo *SUAREZ RIVa, public relations man for the NRR.

1a. Luis *40N0Z Marla, governor of puerto Rico.

the Dominicaa Republic.

Juan *BOSCH Gavino (201-103272), former president of

so Charles *KEELY of the Copley Wire Service.

*VOLSKY RIAlSler (201-352252), an employee o:

• USIA In Miami.

ALICARBON" 1e well aware of the fact that VOLSKI

1s & defacto stringer for Tad SZULC of the New York Times, but this

not deter AlCARBON Iron attempting to exploit VOLSKY as a

source of information.

ORM

;.B0

40)

53c

USK PREVIOUS EDITION.

GLASSIFICATION

STORET

PAGE NO.

CONTINUID

---

## Page 4

13-00000

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

to carry out certain oporational support tasks.

On occasion, ANCARBON-1 1e used

In such instances,

ANCARION-1 makes his inquiries or carries out the required action

within the context of his normal Journallatic activities.

uSe O1 ANCARBON-1 for operational support tasks enables JAlAVE to

harness the investigative Iacilities of the Identity 3.

Several

uxamples of how ACARBON-1 has been used in operational support

tasks are outlined below:

"Andrew ORDONO Camps.

•Camps, DPOB 30. September 1914,

Andrew *ORDONO

arrived

• In Miant and vas given routine CAC processing.

processing are contained in MIAM-0085,

dated 12 March 1903.

being released by CAC, ORDONO was intervlewed by the Identifi Als

a sensational story was developed.

In view of this story,

tried to locate ORDONO for debriefing.

This effort was not productive,

thus AlCARBoN was asked to locate ORDONO.

ORDONO In Houston, Texas. See WAVE-6307, dated 25 March 1963, for

details.

Discrediting Carlos BANDIN of the HIRR Splinter Group.

In UFGH-2555, dated 13 September 1963,

Headquarters suggested that

JMYAVE might

be able to discredit Carlos BANDIN Cruz (201-309611)

of the MRR splinter group as a result of BANDIN's overinflated claime

relative to his faction Invading Cuba.

Headquarters' Interest in

discrediting BANDIN was also stimulated by the fact that BINDIN's

irresponsible publicity stunts were causing problems for ANBIDDY-1.

Ag'a result of Headquarters' Interest in this matter,

& luncheon session with A CARBON on 24 September 1963, at which

. AMCARBON-I was advised that the BANDIN faction of the MRR was less

than accurate in its claims relative to its activities in Cuba.

In vley of this, REUTEMAN suggested that the Identity 3 might want

to sort peddle any future war communiques which the BANDIN faction

might release.

AMCARBON-I stated that, in view of REUTEMAN' B

comments, the

Identity 3 would not only soft peddle, but would

the BANDIN faction in the future.

Once BANDIN was discreditad

with AUCARBON-1, the word was soon leaked by AlCARBON-1 to otber

newspapermen that BANDIN was not a reliable source.

of this action, the BANDIN group has received minimal media coverage

In South Florida since September 1963.

OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCI

In the period February 1963

to February 1964, AMCARSON-I has jurnished JWAVE With operational

Intelligence as outlined below:

In TAVE 4836, dated 21 February 1963,

ANCARBON -1

reported that AMBIND l was back in Miami and was the object of

= great deal of press interest in view of AYBIND-l's release from

& Havana prison.

' AMCARBON 1 also Indicated that AMBOND 1 would

probably be

& knowledgeable source on the current activities of the

UR In Cuba.

This operational intelligence was most helpful in

terms of keeping JUVAVE Informed on AMBIND-l's movements.

Subsequent

levelopments revealed that ANCAREON-1 could not contact AMBEND 1

and thus AMBEND-l's return to the United States did not cause the

publlalty stir. thnt mas inttially anticipated.

In NAVE 6176,

dated 22 barch 1963,

reported that the Identity 3 was attempting to research a full

The intent of this

;article was to furnish a recapitulation of

In this connection, AMCARBON-1 pointed out that he was

FORM

B.80

1401

53a

UBE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIPICATION

-BICHER

PAGE NO.

CONTINUEr

---

## Page 5

13-00000

FORM

8.0

53a

thinking

residing tas Curtiss Parkway, Miami Springs, Florida

say of Pigs operation. ANCARBON-1 stated that,

of any current interest to REUTENAN,

then the Identity 3 would

soft peddle the CARLSON angle.

REUTENAN advised AMCARDON] that

he had no Interest in CARLSON

but knew of him and was of the

opinion that CARLSON was & sound and honest attorney.

The receipt

of this operational intelligence enabled JAWAVI. to brief CARLSON

on the Identity. 3's over-all interest in the role that CARLSON had

played in the Bay of Pigs invasion.

in turn,

enabled CARLSON to more adequately

prepare himsolf

This briefing core teeting

WIth ANCARBON 1.. While AMCARBON 1 did attempt to pursue this

Bay of Pigs story, he never did put anything

into print as the story

was overtaken by other developments before AUCARBON-] could finish

his research.

In WAVE 0904,

dated 9 July 1963,

AMCARBON-1 advised

TWAVE that l. Trevor *ARMBRISTER, an associate editorfor the

saturday Evening Post, was in Miami during July 1963 attempting

to research a story regarding the possibility that strategic

missiles were hidden in Cuban caves.

This information enabled

JUWAVE to keep Headquarters informed on sensational-type articles

which might be appearing relative to Soviet missiles 1n Cuba.

In WAVE 4701, dated 20 September 1963, AMCARBON-1

gave JhAVs his resume of

the discussions which he

ÄMBIDDY-1 at the Miami Playboy Club on 19 September 1963.

Information was useful in obtaining an insight into what AMBIDDY-1

was telling the press.

€.

dated 10 October 1963,

reported on & discussion

In WAVE 566 that he had had on 10 October 1963 with

AMBIDDY-1'a public relations man.

This operational intelligence

was useful in terms of keeping KUBARK advised as to what AMBIDDY-I's

representatives were telling the outside world about their

operational activities.

In WAVE 6910,

Informed JMHAVE about the

being received at the Identity 3 relative to so-called KUBARK

vessels which were located in South Florida waters.

Information alerted JHAVE to the fact that press scrutiny was

going to be directed toward the Identity 5.

Armed with this warn

ItAVE was. able to take action which minimized the publicity

repercussions from a renewed press interest in the Identity 5.

In WAVE 7671, dated 16 November 1963, AMCARBON-1

Peru which contained an interesting operational lead to one

CArlOS MONTALYANO In PunO, Peru.

This lead was examined by JiVAVE,

Headquarters and the Lima Station.

This examination revealed

that the letter was written by a crackpot; thusincident did underscore

renl operational potential in this lead.

the fact that ANCARBON-1 is willing to bring potentlally significant

operational leads to JWAVE's attention.

In WAVE 1614, dated 6 February 1964, AMCARBON-1

advised JMWAVE that he had received numerous telephone calls

Indicating that Armando Andres GUIROLA Forte, who had defected

from a Cuban fishing vessel might be an individual who had previously

been seen in Miami during November or December 1963.

time, AlCARDON pointed out that he was suspicious

these telephone calls Indicated that GUIROLA was not

as being used as a means of creating an incident which

but was either a GOC agent of & fUBARk & would

embarrass the COC, as a result of their fishing boats penetrating

NOR PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLABBIFICATION

SIGHET

PAGE NO,

CONTINUED

5.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

United States territorial waters.

REUTCHAN d. ised AlCARDON-1

that KUBARK had played no role in mounting a provocation operation

against the Goc.

At the same time

It was highly unlikely that curnold was a coc agent. out tit

As a result

of this conversation, arrangements were made for JIVAVE to check

out certain aspects

of the GUIROLA story.

At the same time,

ANCARBON- was prevalled upon not to write a story which might

lead the public to speculate on whether GUIROLA was an

agent or a

plant in a propaganda play designed to embarrass the GOC.

7.

PROPAGANDA OUTLET®

ARCARBON-1 has been used successfully,

during the period overed by this report,

as & propaganda outlet

through which itens of interest to KUBARK could be surfaced fr

the free world press.

In this flold are outlined below:

Examples of how AMCARBON-1 has been harnessed

The ANCRAB-1 defection story originally

1a8 Americas, which played up an API release from Montevideo.

The API Montevideo story highlighted AMCRAB1'a information

relative to GOC activities in Uruguay.

The story In the Diario

de las Americas had an extremely limited impact on Spanish readers

In the Miami ares. As a result, it was decided to do a series

of feature stories on AVCRAB-I, pointing up the fact that AMCRAB-1

was typical of the veterans of the Granma expedition, who felt

they had been betrayed by CASTRO and had been relegated to positions

of obscurity once the revolution had put CASTRO in power.

AMCARBON -]

was briefed ta detail on the AMCRAB-I story, and he was given an

• opportunity to debrief AMCRAB-I under controlled conditiong in a

JAWAVE safehouse®

After completing his debriefing, ANCARDON-1

vrote a series of feature articles on AMCRAB-I.

The first article

in the series received front page headline play. The series of

articles on AMCRAB-I were well written, and they provided an

excellent peg for JMYAVE to mount a replay operation via otber

propaganda assets... AlCARBON-l's story on AMCRAB-1 was picked up

API and others, and it was played throughout Latin Anerica.

The details of this

14 October 1963; WAVE

surfacing can be found in WAVE 5820,VAVE 6174,

6092, dated 19 October 1963; and,

dated 21 October 1963.

JHAVE learned that when it. Charles GifFiNg

D. Charles GRITTIN Shrimp Boat Stol sons went to Cuba

On 26 February 1964,

to reclaim the hijacked shrimp boat, JOiNNY RiB, they found that

select items were missing from the boat when it was

to them.

It was belleved that this information would make & good

human interest story which JuVAVE assets could use to counter GOC

propaganda claims that United States officials had stolen Items

the Cuban fishing boats which had violated United States

territorial waters.

In view of this opinion, a steering tip was

given to AMCARDON-1 to have the Identity 3 representative in

Key West Interview Mr. GRIFFIN.

This Interview was carried out,

and an article outlining the points which were of interest to

JANYAVE was published in the 27 February 1964 edition of the

Identity 3.

LAYC Story.

The March 1964 LAYC meeting

1n Santiago,

Chile, was not receiving appropriate coverage

South Florida

newspapers; as a result,

REUTENAN contacted AMCARBON-1 on 5 March

1964 and suggested that

the InYC meeting was a story which the

Identity 3 should pursue task of preparing the story on the InYC

AMCARBON -1 was grateful for this steering

tip, and he assigned the

to one of the members of his staff.

A story on the LAYC was

subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Identity 3

(COMMENT: Coples of the articles cited in subparagraphs & through

c above are attached for Headquarters Information.

CLASBIFICATION

FORM

B.60

(40)

530

UEE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

6.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

8.

POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE.

Attempts have been made to

obtain

disseminable positive intelligence from AMCARBON-1 during

the perlod covered by

This attempt has beon generally

in thot ACARBON -1

does not have a great number of

contacts in Latin Anerica who would give him access to worthwhile

intelligence

apprecinbly in advance of the

Information appenring

in the overt press.

As a result, AlCARBON 1s usually not aware of lin

Inside developments in any Latin

American country. consequently,

he is not a worthwhile source of positive Intelligence.

matter of fact, AMCARBON-1 1a less valuable as a source of positive

Intelligence than most journalists.

This 15 attributable sololy

to bis lack of long-standing contacts in the Latin American political

scene. It is belleved that AlCARBON-1 will ultimately overcono

this shortcoming;

thus, we will continue to attempt to harness him for

the collection of positive intelligence.

9.

has been found to be a straightforward individual who

COMMIT. In the perlod covered by this reportia honest,

, AMCARBON -1

cooperative. and who understands the need for security.

relationship also indicates that AMCARBON-1 13 an accurate reporter

of that information which he passes to KUBARK.

In view of this,

JMNAVI plans to: continue to barness ANCARBON-1 In the same mannor

that he has been used in the past.

It is belleved that our rela

tionship with ANCARBON- enhances our ability

to conduct our

operational mission in & secure

this relation-

ship

culties with the media outlets in the South Florida area:

result of our continuing relationship with AMCARBON-1

a special

activities report will be forwarded at appropriate Intervals.

It is requested that & 201 number be assigned AHCARBON-1

and that JHAVE be advised of the number.

END OF DISPATCH

53c

UAE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIPICATION

SECREI

CONTINUED

3 DUBA

7.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

DISPATCH

SLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DIE

ICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Separato Cover Attachment

B to UIGA14781

Identitleg • 1 -

2 -

3 - The Miami Herald

5 - The LEDA

DISTRIBUTION :

3 - Chief,

SAS

1 = RI Chrono

1 - ANCARBON] 201

1 - COS Chrono

GROUP 1

Excladed from automsile

downr rating and

D002244

PAGE NO,

330

UrA PARVIOUA EDITION.

CLAsSIFICATION.

SECRET

CONTINUED

---

