# 104-10186-10088

## Page 1

104-10186-10088

LINE

TONKREPORI

INFORMATION: REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SA L'BC BACS TAY ANA TA, IDA UNANTION DE FiTTIALOR Ol MAICh lA ANY EARDOS 1O DA UNDUIDONINS PerDA dI PrODISILAS EE JAM

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT

Policy Guidance Directises for

Cuban Intelligence Representatives

in Halti

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CS-311/01258-65

4 February 1965

6

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF

1963

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 'IS TENTATTVE.

SOURCE!

A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment.

The following is a translation of a docu

ment which Source provided containing the policy guivance direct-

ive for Cuban

intelligence representatives in Haiti, prepared by

the General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de

Inteligencia - DGI,, MA Department.

The MA Department no longer

exists. as such, having been divided

Into two departments:

Department (Ilegal) and National Liberation Department (Liberacion

Nacional -- LN).

DIRECTIVES OF THE MA SECTION

COUNTRY:

HAITI

Priority:

1. Plans

of

aggressien against Cuba.

2. Progressive

political

forces.

3. Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution:

1. Movement for solidarity with Cuba.

5.

Strategic information.

6. The Communist Party of Haiti. (Party of Popular Accord.)

Important:

7. Relations with the l'nired States.

8.

Internal politics of the country.

9.

Social situation.

10.

Internal

situation of the Arned Forcas.

11.

The Church.

12.

Functions,

characteristics.

and information on members of the

foreign

service and the

accredited diplomatic corps

the country.

5

4

3

2

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

101A

I ARMY

REPCISCLAST

I&*S

¡Nore. Frold distribution indicated by "*".)

TAIR

INSA

I oce

IFBI

VINFORMATON REFORI

INFORMAFION REPORT

LX-2307

SP {ANNUG-I)

¡For Distribaron sia Altached Pare

CS-311/01258-63

SIIS

12 :LOr AF/OSI. ACSI, ONI.

ORDIATINE SE LI9914$

TOTALIE S.CI 21, RID/AN 1.WH-SA

1015), SR

1081 23(331 ,AF 818:, E7 8:10: FE

-12 81NF 7119) 1

6. €b

---

## Page 2

• .

Hogrs Dissem

WH/COPS

#H/PO/A

WH/PO/B

WH/1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/3/V

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/MOB

WH/SA/R

WH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/ SA/SO/N$

CI/Staff

CI/Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR.

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/LIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/JKO/J0

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/ AA/I

NE/5/P

NE/6/C& I

NE/ Intel

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

6/0V

1

1

1

'13

]

1

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSEY

- la -

KE/1

NE/2

found fant

HE/3

WE/4

WE/5

WE/BC

WE/R

1

pand pen

1

Field Dissem

#H/ MNTY

WH/MRID

1

CS-311/01258-65

1

1

pond fort

1

4

1

1

199.

• WH/SA/WAVE

5

Liaison Dissem

IEL

LEASIN

and pre

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

S-E-C-B-E-T

NO FUREIGN DISSEN

- 2 =

CS-311/01258-65

13. The press.

14.

Operative data.

Necessary:

16: Coverion of thuractonal concons of jes organs.

Essential:

1. PLANS OF AGGRESSION AGAINST CUBA:

• Military pacts.

b.

operate sain he orientation American stat Fican

Defense Board).

Possibilities of a break with Cuba by the countries which

have diplomatic relations with her.

d. Possibilities of isolation through the application of ller

American Treaties

such as the Treaty of Rio and the Punta del

Este agreements.

2. PROGRESSIVE POLITICAL FORCES:

The Party uf Popular Accord (PEP), strength, organization,

leaders.

Information on the same.

Programs, ties with

leftist political parties.

Proparanda methods.

Attitude

toward the Cuban Revolution.

b. Other political organizations. Leaders, information on the

Same.

Forces, propaganda methods, programs. Tles.

c. Contact and knowledge, reaction to political and economic

changes in Cuba.

3. ATTITUDE OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TORARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION:

a. Toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

..

lith regard to Cuban-Soviet relations in questions affect

ine Cuba and world peace.

With regard to accusations that Cuba is a base of Communist

aggression against the Latin American countries.

4.

SOVERENT FOR SOLIDARITY WITH CUB.:

Find out whether the Solidarity lovement has been organized,

in what form it functions, who its directors are,

Find out the possibilities for demonstrations of active

solidarito that the progressive organizations can offer.

5.. STRATEGIC INFORILITION:

a.

Because of its nearness to our coasts and favorable posi-

for cariying out any kind of action against Cuba, the

search must be undertaken for inforation concerning the

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEW

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

- 3 -

CS-311/01258-65

possibility that imperialism is using this Island as a base

of operations against our country.

b.

Because of the lack of information to gulde the search for

concrete data and information, the established principle

must be followed of working along the departmental lines,

common do all sections of the Department.

.

Notwithstanding what has been prevlously mentloned, we deem

it adrantagrous to point out several important questions on

which

work must be begun immediately.

BASES OF COLNTERREVOLUTIONARY OPERATIONS:

•. Localization of camps or bases of operations of counter-

revolutionary launches.

Characteristics of the same

Sh 1ps

encountered in this.

Nationality of the individuals forming

of the ships,

she cres of the shipsacks, men sage the same plan a coried

b. Counterrevolutionary organizations which will participate in

elements

these activities' functions.

which will be in charge of

Bame, names, and

c. Utilization of Dominican ¿lements (Trujillo followers) in this

work.

ARMED FORCES OF HAITI:

Budgetary

allotments.

b.

of the same. Established agreements.

c.

Utilization of the territers

American army manoeuvres.

Dates of the same red mies atten

are participating.

Troops.

Military concentrations of any type which are carried out on

Haitian territory. Armies, units, and troops. Date.

6. THE CONSENIST PARTY OF HAITI. (PARTY OF POPULAR ACCORD) :

a.

Attitude toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

b. Attitude concerning Cuban-Soviet relations.

c.

Artitude toward the lines

followed by Cuba in the nationa.

and

international political

systems.

Attitude with regard to the disagreements in

the international

Communist movement:

In the case of China and the USSR.

In the case of Albania and the USSR.

with regard to Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

!

---

## Page 5

nicone in

S-E-C

NO FOR

GN DISSEN

CS-311/01258-65

nith regard to peaco.

with regard to peacciul cocristence.

e. Internal situation in the Party of Popular Accord:

Forces.

Activities.

Disagreements.

Leaders (Information on the same).

t=

Relations with leftist forces:

Disagreements.

Possibilities of uniting all of the leftist forces.

E. Methods of combar officially adopted by the party.

h. Nork of the parts in the cities and the countryside, tend-

ing toward the creation of revolutionary awareness in the

peuple.

Relations of the party with the bourgeots parties.

j. Solidarity work with the Cuban Revolution,

* Publialty medin which the Party organizes.

1.

Repression endured by the party at the hands of the Duraller

dietatorship.

Status

of the partr with regard to legal an

illegal operations.

Relations of the party with the Dominican Popular, Soctalist

Party

tle Communist Partles od other Latin American

countries.

Important:

7. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:

a.

Alliance for Progress, Peace Corps.

b. Relations with forth American credit organizations.

c. Nurth American military assistance, role of the American.

military mission.

d. The North American Embassy. Inforation on the Ambassadr

and Embassy

personnel.

e. Activities

of the North American Intelligence corps.

S. INTERVIL POLICY OF THE COUNTRY:

Existing bourgeois political parties: composition, fores.

propaganda methods, leaders, infersation on the same.

S-E-C-R-E-T

• NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 6

1d-0d0d

9.

10.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-3 .

CS-311/01258-65

Relations of the bourgois political parties with the

"Yankco" Embassy, the maopolies, and the churches.

Political organizations, information on the same, arigin.

t108-

Orientation.

d.

Need of collaborators for information.

aise

= Mero the political partles obtain funde.

SOCIAL SITUATION:

Conflicts of ecunonte origin manifested ag racial demands.

Leaders, information on the same.

b.

Economic and political predomtance of racial groups.

lations of these groups vito the "Yankee" Enteasy.

Lenders,

information on the same.

Worker, student, and pessant organizations.

Structure,

strength, and ortentation.

Leaders, Information on the

same.

INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES:

8. The armed forces.

Social composition, organt-

b. Coupist (coup d'etat) groups within the Armed Forces. In-

formation on Colonel Orati, his ties, etc.

c. Military relations of laits with other matin American

countries.

d. Ideological training of the Armed Forces. Material and

reasoning used.

e. Information on soldiers who are in the International Organi

zations

of the JID and l'.v.

and on the silitary attaches in

the Latin American couctrles.

1. Restrictive bodies; organization ald activities.

11.

THE CHURCH:

a. Eclesiastical Hierareby.

b. Situation between the native and foreign clergy.

of the couneryo" Governantal" oppositternal political like

of the country.

d.

Influence of the Church among the popular sectors; workers,

peasants, students.

€. Campaigns of the Churea against Cuba, arguments.

1. Relation of the Church with the plans of the United States.

g. Influence of the Chured on education in the country.

S-F-&-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

---

## Page 7

S-E-C*-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

- 6

CS-311/01258-65.

12.

fIrTIONS, CHARACTERIStICS

AND ISPOSINTION ON MENDERS OF THE

DAT TOY SERVICE AND TIN ACCREDITED DIPLOVTIC CORPS IN. TIE

SOLSTRY:

U.N.

Do OAS and JID.

5. O1f1clals in and tron the latin Atricin countries.

d. Information

on the internal political life of the country.

obtained

in diplomatic circles.

13. THE PRESS:

Information on journalists and the existing discemination

organs.

The possabusteles of using the journalis's both in

the country and abroad, for our mort.

14.

OPERATIVE INFORMATION:

=. Possibilitlos of illogally penetrating into the country ai."

taking advantage of the proximity of the eastern coasts of

Cuba.

Necessary:

15.

CUNDITION OF THE NATIONAL ECONONY:

9.

North American investments and their influence on the

country.

o. Belgian investments and their influence on the country.

c. Other foreign capital and its influence on the country.

d. Level of unemployment.

e. Exports and imports, levels and characteristies.

1.

characterise do teals on a capital.

§. Haiti's position with regard to Central American economic

integration.

16. QUVERIUENTAL STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ORGANS:

a. Relations between the Presidency and the Ministries.

o. Into navaler personages closest to and most influential

• The press is, i gene entity sur sie anone to

Relations with

3. The Judiciary persons holding high positions.

law's,

Restrictivr

laws.

Important

Relatsonships between the Judiclary

and other authorities.

e. Information on officials having authority over areas of the

country.

S-E-C-R-E-T

YO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

