# 104-10177-10239

## Page 1

104-10177-10239)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON.D.C. 20505

192: 303

'SUBJECT

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN

NENORANDUM FOR: Mr. John Narner

Chief, International Intelligence Divisior

Office of Intelligence

Drug Enforcement Adninistration

ATTENTION: Mr. Robeit Goe

Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

REFERENCES: A. SEC-IGI-76-0048 (i), 06 February 1976

B. SEC-IGI-76-0062(1), 20 Februal, 1976

C. SEC-IGI-76-0G65 (1), 25 February 1976

as tritized

This Agency

was requested by DEA to check the

backgrounds of five Cuban exiles who have come to the

attention of DEA either as potential informants or as

liaison contacts. According to preliminary checks

conducted by DEA, there were indications that these

individuals had past records of "political and revolú-

tionary intrigue."

DEA, concerned that it maj be the

target of a provocation operation by another govern-

ment, requested this Agency's assessment of the

This memorandum contains the results of a

check of our Headquarters records on these individuals,

followed by a sunmary of our findings and conclusions.

The order of this response is keyed to Reference B:

2.

was of interest

to this Agency in 1960 but according to. our records he

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED ABROAD OR

OUISIDE

THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE RECEIVING AGENCY

WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE ORIGINATOR

EXENPE. HOUSE, EREN DION SECORTION SCHEDULE OF

EXEMPTION CATEGORY:

B++4-65545943

8-410=51955%6

first.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SUEJEC7: Cuban. Exiles tooled with DEA

Page 3

as at no time used

no additional information ont

except for a 1969 FBI report dealing with his insolve-

nent in a plan to assassinate Fidel Castro.

(DEA

already has a cop} of this report.)

Although in-

formation obtained from a Report of Investigation

(ROI) by Alfredo Duncan

dated

December 1975 indicates that I

(DaA/Caracas is a U.S.

citizen, resides in Caracas and has contacts with

various

GOV officials, we have

no information in our

Headquarters files to substantiate this information.

In November 1975 the Caracas Regional Office (CRO)

requested traces from

our

field representative on

J, who was reportedly in contact with the CRo.

The following traces were forwarded to our represen-

tative in Caracas

on 03 December 1975 for passage t

DEA:

"Following data

On LATIO BLOY LINENEZ ROjO

taken from his own undated handsritten bio summary

which apparently submitted to the anti-Castro Frente

Revolucionario Democratico (FRD) in Miami about 1960,

and from an FRD Personncl Form.

he registered in the ISRas & DEa soure

formally registeredg

(ile was

---

## Page 3

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 3

3.

Orlando GARCIA Vasquez.

DPOB: 16 June 1927,

Havana,

Cuba.

GARCIA (at one time a naturaliaed U.S.

citizen/18 May 1945 in South Carolina), becane a

Venezuelan citizen ca 1962. GARCIA has a long history

as a political thug since pre-Batista dajs in Cuba.

He was a member of the Union Insurrectional Revo-

lucionaria (UIR) in Cuba along with Fidel Castro and

other persons who were involved in political assasi-

nations.

He claims to have served with the U.S. 82nd

Airborne Division from 1945-47 and to hare returned

to Cuba thereafter to attend the University of Havana

on the GI Bill.' About mid-52 Subject left Cuba for

Miami because of a scándal in Cuba over a crine al-

legedly committed by GARCIA.

In 1953 he became a

bodyguard for Costa Rican President FIGUERES, who

introduced hin to Romulo BETANCOURT,

who was

then in

•exile in Costa Rica..

It is believed that GARCIA'S

fast rise in the Venezuelan government is based on his

earlier service to Accion Democratica (AD) exiles in

Costa Rica,

where he revortedly eliminated several

gunmen

sent

to kill BETANCOURT.

When BETANCOURT

became

president of Verezuela (1959-64), GARCIA was

appointed a division chief in the Directorate General

of Police (DIGEPOL)" Prevention (DISIP). GARCIA left

now the Directorate for the Services

of Intelligence and

Venezuela for Miami in 1964 for health reasons (ulcers)

and during this stay in Miami worked at the Venezuelan

Consulate.

He returned to Venezuela in 1966 and re-

portedly held positions within the l'enezuelan Ministry

of Interior (exact positions.not known).

In August

1969 GARCIA was assigned as First Secreiary to the

Venezuelan Embassy

in Georgetown,

He returned

to Venezuela sometime during 1970 or 1971 and was

assigned as Special Assessor (Advisor), Ministry of

Foreign Relations, where he was mainly

concerned with

Venezuelan national border incidents and violations.

to head a special foreign intelligence

within the Ministry of Interior:

In November 1973 our representative in Caracas

was queried oy DEA Caracas concerning a report which

was prepared on 06

September, 1973 in Miami by S.A./

Michael

D. Brom,

which accused GARCIA of being in:

volved in

narcotics

trafficking

5:000

---

## Page 4

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

Page 1

DEA Caracas bas advised that

Althougl

that GARCIA has associated with known traffickers, no

hard facts concerning his direct involrement in

narcotics have been uncovered. GARCIA has been

not he conse ague in getter when neces -

"bright' CARCIA has apparently always sided with the

men in power and seems to have gained the confidence :

of many leaders in the countries around the Caribbean.

A DEA ROI, dated 10 October 1971, written by S.A. Brom

at Miami reported that GARCIA was in the United States

and was in contact with Ricardo MORALES (sce paragraph:

CARCIA made several trips to the U.S. on behalf

of the GOV during 1974-75. Your. Agency is referred

to the FBI for infornation concerning GARCIA's

activities in the U.S.

---

## Page 5

SUBJFCT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

Page 5

information on this individual.

Manuel De ARNAS. DPOB:

06 November 1947;

Havana,

On 17 October 1975 onc Manuel De ARMAS contacted our

6. Cuba: naturalized U.S.. Citizen living in Miami.

overt Domestic Contact Division (DCD) office in Miami

offering his services as a double agent.

Following are

excerpts from tho DCD Reports dated 20 October 1975 and

19 january 1976 based on debriefings of De ARIAS: While

in Cuba De ARVAS claimed to have been the neighbor of

Raul BETANCOURT, the brother of the former Venczuelan

President Romulo BETANCOURT, and his two daughters:

Antonieta and Mariela, who was De ARMAS' girl friend:

De ARMAS' mother decided in 1962 that Subject should

leave Cuba, which he did.

In 1975, De ARMAS found out

that his two young cousins had been placed in an orphan

He made contact with Mariela BETANCOURT,

telling her

that he was fed

up with the U.S. system of

government in order to gain her attention on the matter

of taking his cousins out of Cuba.

Nariela asked him

if he would be willing to work for the Cuban Government

and he replied he would if it would help the youngsters.

Mariela then told De ARMAS to go to Caracas and meet

with her sister Antonieta.

De ARMAS went to Caracas on

02 October 1975 and met with Antonieta, but no proposals

were made on the possibility of his working for the

Cuban Government.

Or 17 October 1975 De ARMAS again

called Mariela and was told that he should return to

Venezucla to hold more talks with Antonieta and "other

people." After talking with Mariela on 17 October 1975,

De ARilAS called our DCD/Miami Office because as

citizen he clained that he did not vant to set involved

with the Cuban Government unless he had this Agency's

De ARMIS graciously otfered his services as

a double agent.

He called DCD/Miami on 20 October 1975

---

## Page 6

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

lage 6

and again on 07 January 1976 to resubmit his offer and

insisted on a response.

He was cold that his offer

lould be forwarded through the appropriate channels.

(Note: Our records show that there was no CIA interest

in De ARMAS, past or present.)

On 13 January 1976 our

representative in Miani

was told that the FBI Miami

office had been in

contact with subjcct and wished to

verify De ARMAS' clain that he was in contact with our

The FBI also asked whether this

Agency had any objection for further FBI contact with

Subject. on the

"same basis they had previously."

The type or length of FBI contact with De ARMAS is not

Your office is referred to the FBI for additional

information.)

On 04 Februar) 1976 DEA Caracas received a

DEA message (# 02406) which requested permission

Miami CI Manuel Lconardo De ARMAS to travel to Caracas

for a one kilo heroin, buy from a Colombian whom De ARMAS

had previously met through a Maria A.

BETANCOURT. Per-

mission was given and De ARIAS arrived in Caracas on 11

February 1976.

No mention of drugs was made on this

trip but according to De ARMAS he was taken to the Cuban

embassy in Caracas on 12 february 1976, where he was

allgedly approached to work for the Cuban Government

in an intelligence capacity.

De ARMAS reported these

events to DEA Caracas on 12. February 1976; he was ad-

vised to return to the U.S. Our representative in

Caracas was briefed on the De ARMAS case by SAIC Duncan

on 13 February 1976.

was very interested

in having De ARMAS return to Caracas for use as a

possible source on Cuban intelligence activities,

A background check was conducted

on De ARMAS at that time and on 20 February 1976 the

FBI representative in Miani reported the following in-

formation:

"The FBI has been avoiding contact with

De ARdAs for the past couple of months since he was

"mentally

unbalanced fabricator'.

ARMAS gave a press interview in Miami in early February

he clained an affiliation with virtually

every U.S.

intelligence agency.

He said that he had

worked for

CIA and had attended a CIA training school.

The press

intervicw has thus far not been published,

presumably because it is too far fetched.

SCARET

---

## Page 7

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEa

Page i

a bank loan of $1,500 in Miami and has defaulted

on some $800 of the amount.

The final note on De ARMAS

is that he received a gencral discharge from the U.S.

Army with a notation

schavioral problens."

the had pached ene toned

-BI information has been passed to DEA Caracas.

agencies concerned agree that contact with De ARMAS

should cease.

De ARMAS again contacted S.A. Duncan in

Caracas on 26 February 1976 and requested a mecting; he

said that the request was not drug related, but con-

cerned the "Cuban matter."

S.A. Duncan advised De ARMAS"

he was on his own and that DEA would not get in

AS DEA Headquarters is aware, De ARMAS re-

portedly left for Mexico o/a 26 February 1976. We have .

no subsequent reporting on his movements.

Three of the five aforementioned individuals

and Meown to have he post come e

GARCIA Vazquez

and cuba at one time a both former members of the UIR

was in contact with GARCIA in the

United States during 1974-75.

Although there have been

allegations aimed atbRibEs and GARCIA

over the years

of being Cuban agents and/or of narcotics

involvement,

these claims have not been substantiated

and for the most part are based on circumstantial

evidence or guilt by association. which happens

frequently among Cubans.

ne feel,. cannot be construed as part of a provocation:

operation.

A check of our records reflected no past

intelligence backgrounds for LAZARO Alfonso and De

While there is a paucity of background infor-

mation in our files on

Justo LAZARO, in our opinion he:

is attempting to extort moncy from

the U.S. Government

concerned.

All Agencies

concerned agree he is

unstable and contact should be either severed, or if

unavoidable, it should be made with extreme caution.

---

## Page 8

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page &

Following a review of all information on the

foregoing Subjocts available at DEA Headquarters and

at this Agency's leadquarters, le are of the opinion

that there is no data or other evidence to suggest an

outside organization is attempting to manipulate these

Individuals in an operation aired at discrediting the

U.S. Government and DEA.

We believe there may be

collusion among the three Subjects located in Caracas,

probably to assist one another in nefarious schemes to

one degree or another; however, the information on

suggest their motivation would no beyond

hand does nonancial or influence objectives cor example,

personal,

While one

cannot absolutely rule out the possibility,

Service has run one or more of the afore

mentioned Subjects at DEA for the purpose of harrassing

bovernment, there is no conclusive information

in our files to connect them with Cuban

intelligence or

a Venezuelan

entity whose interests are inimical to the

Special Assistant

for Coordination of

Foreign Narcotics Information

DONC-00038/76

---

## Page 9

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

Page &

DDO/OPS/NARCOG/

Distribution:

Orig. & 1

/ms

- Addressee

- NARCOG CHRONO

1 - IP/AN*

#File in

201-0067860

201-0285923

Index:

201-0286570

JuSto LAZARO ALtonso

Index:

Manuel Leonardo De ARIAKa JuStO AlfOnSo

Coordination:

(in draft 17 March 1970

1A7 COC

(Andraft) 17 March 1976

---

