# 104-10215-10045

## Page 1

104-10215-10045

SECRET

DATE

INSTRUCTION SHEET

20 JUL 1964

SET UA

FOR POA

X

ERPEDITE

INDICES

SET Lo

Foa

27 мл

262.4

SERT I

EXPEDITE EBI

INDICES

CASE NO. 201.

6-76899

DATE

3. Reguet 64

ust

Тичні

F//c, Seppast doret

ISQUE OPERATICHAL APFRONAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ЕХТЕАВ РОА FOR

DAYS UNTIL

ALIASTATE POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

FORDARD ATTACHMERT TO DIVISION

FORMAND TO

SECURITY

OFFICE

ATTACHAINS

(No

CAN BO PEE PODSTON

"ENO DATED

notice

Division)

ANCEL

CANGEER

PER

CI/DA NOTICE

checked

hele

Đ/VI5104

RECUEST RI PRACES

RENCESE OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

REQUEST GREEN LIST

RIQUEST ALSULTS FIAD DOSSIER REVIES

REVIES FI'D COLLATEBAL INFORNATION

REQUEST

RESUlTS TECHNICAl.

ISTERDOGATION FROM

REVIE» SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CAIDA

BEVIES SECURITY OFFICE CONCURMENT MERO AT CI/DA

REVIEN AT CI/OA

EFBUTE© ВЕРОВУ

#EQUEST

RETIES OF ATTACHED REFERENCE.

ADVISE CI/OA OF

MATURE AND SIGHIFICANCE

FILE

TICKLE

NOTICE

$# COEB

188нae

OTHER

POA EXPIRED

HAS DEEM INDICATEO, POA TILL DE AUTOMITICALLY CANCELLED.

PLEASE SUBMIT PRO 11. IF, WITHIN SO DAYS. NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

FOR

•FAILURE YO SUSMII PRO 88 AS REQUIREO UNDER CSI NO, 10-9 ON TO INDICATE ANT FURTHER INTEREST IN OUTAININE APPROVAL

THE OPENATIONAL USE OF

SUBJECT.

REMAANS

that

please son ate filt

Leonard 2U. Pate

707

SECRET

&88

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

- REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

DATE

10:

a new ras do o one

CI/OPERATIONAL AFPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

16 0021 2961

CHIEF. INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION.

FROM: 0/Si/10121am8

OFFICE OF SECURITY

G0-141

CHIEF. PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

7646

SUBJECT:

PROJECT

(Tros nano)

Bernard In BARKER

CRYPTONTA, PSEUDONTH, ANA OR ALIASES

ANCIATARRA

Ce 76899

•I POT TTIT NO.

201-257689

SO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PAOYISIONAL OFEBATIONAL APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVIRT SECURITY APPROVAL

CONTRACT TYPE A

¿. SPECIFIE AREA DE USE

AL HAVE Area

#. FULL DETAILS OF USE

SIONAL POOPRIETARY APPROVAL

BETARY

APPROvAL

COVERT NAME

CHECK

SPECIAL INQUIRY (50 fleld loreatigetion)

CONTRACT TYPE D

Subject will be utilized as a FI/CI support asset in the eilAVE area.

MAVE traces non-derogatory per WAVE 5572, 25 Apr1l 196160

A. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

M. U.S. GOVERAHERT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURIRE INVESTIGATION!

YES

NO

•. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATIONI

=

C. I$ SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM!

=

D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIMS

L. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETENT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTINE PERSOMAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

Jone

DO YOU

PLA#

TO MAKE SUBJECT WIT

ING OF AGENCY OR COVERNMERT INTERESTI

NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

Tres IT

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

8. ON EQUIVALENT. IN 12D COPIES ATTACHED

P#O 0I. OR EDUIVALENT, IN 1D COPY ATTACHED

PRO 81 WILL BE FORYARDED

GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO:

RI TRACES

1544:03

NO RECORD

wILL FORMARD

NON-DEROGATORY

8. DIVISION TRACES

NO RECORD

TILE FORwARD

= NO% -BEROGATORY

•. FIELD TRACES

"ILL FORWARD

DEROCATORY ATTACHED

SIGHAFICAAT INFORMATION ATTACHES

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

NO RECORD

NO DEROGATONY INFO.

LIST SOURCES CHECKED

NOT ICITIATED (Esplanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASE

in other sort ple Maughan "ison

1089 772 181 16:

SIGNATUSE OF BRANCH CHIEF

ruce B. Choever, ih maughen

€*1

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLERET

PRQ PART

HAE:

DPOBE

CITIZENs

RESIDENCEs

OCCUPATIONE

BACKGROUNDS

WIFE:

DAUCETERS

Bernard I. BARKER

17 March 1917, Havana, Caba (Of American parents)

Statoless

Mant, F18.

Pr1s0- Fight Manager

sabject lost his U.S. citizenship when he joined

The Cuban Police in 1950, but did not acquire Cuban

nationality. He served as Captain in U.S. Air Force

during Wi-II.

Clara BeDA FERNANDEZ de BARKER

Marla Flena BARKER

1/203

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

C- 76899

Memo for the Record:

13 Jaly 1964

(and for Lee TATE's review upon his return from leave).

1. il called

geets chessane - in ton of fact

RL 1583, to

independent grunted a C SA on 9 May 1900 as on

was given as U.S. by bistd,

conespondence in buljicts 8.0, file relates to foct Subject

lost his citizenship in 1950 by accepting employment

in Cuban police this is also spelled out in Secteon I of

Subjects PRA Part I

Ailed herein below

which te

received 6 May 1959).

esplained that letter

police at the request of FBI and that FBI had

to OTR).

espiained that colite Sulject CSA has

---

## Page 5

Re poss this

SECTEN

referred to stalement "He is

(copy filed herein attuch, th S.0. memo tated 26 MAy 1964,

Colemas thought this suggested th a Change in use, I.C.

that sal a polite deten age at (ny comment Melan

fer had received no reply.

b. Second point on which Suljects CSA would hinge

would be citizenship status, Coleman contimed.

then is if slyiet nas

regained his Citizenship, onto

was proper (ops 430 4o8 citese in the las

- specifically Miami) but that if he has not regained

citizenships he properly would be a POA/OA case.

3. I agreed to call WH and check on above points but

se the eate not regarned is i gentine tiding,

subst a

petty to Do as it he ferther delay Ji nest

N. B. Sulject CSA hore no restrictions.

SECRET

tra

---

## Page 6

3. SECRET

4. d then called for Mr. Charles Francis, DC/WH/ss

x 7678, RL 9057, identified in stracing mens as

the WH HQ case office, but found that he is

await on leave this meek, I was than defered t

a Mr,

on same estensien who was orly

slightly familian with care. He said he would series

fit file and call me back, hate both he and

Milar Manoe Hailin of can then back,

Mulane said he was quite sure sulject had nat

reinstated..

He said he would send a copy of this man

tt for inclusion un 5.0. file in order t

Clarify this paint.

5. Stel late one Glinia, WH/SA, RL/263 called

to get the story straight since ste had been asled

to get start PDA/D A action on the case. I explained

the situation perabort. She will Aulmit 772 form

(reflecting current RIS Dir traces) pus GLNC form,

reguestuy PSA/OA, and male ref to PRQ Part I

have in file. She explained she

and since this is a

above for your renew on your return SECRET

277

---

