# 104-10111-10199

## Page 1

104-10111-10199

17 OCT 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiaf, CI/OA

FROM

SUBJECT

: Deputy Director of Securlty (Investigations

and Operational Support,

: C#83 492

#216 264

1.

Reference is made to your memorandum dated 21 September

1962 reguesting an appropriate investigation of Subject in con-

nection with her use under an Operational Approval as an informant

by WH/3 in Mexico.

Reference is also made to our memorandums of

6 October 1960 and 1 May 1962.

As we advised on 1 Ociober 1962 a search of our Indices

on Subject disclosed note-worthy and derogatory Information which

1s available for reviow by your office. The Subject'a Securlty

Office file consists of three voluminous volumes which Include

the results of polygraph examinations and technical surveilances.

A chock of FBI on 4 October 1962 referred to nineteen FBI reports

and lotters which were forwarded to this Agency. A copy of the

FBI memorandum is attached. It Is assumed that copies of these

reports and letters are available to your offico.

In view of the note-worthy and questionable Information

reflected above, It is recommended that no contact beyond assess-

ment be permitted at this time.

In view of the voluminous infor

nation available on the Subject and Subject's controversial

background, this office will not conduct any additional investi-

gation on the Subject until the available note-worthy and deroga-

tory Information has been reviewed thoroughly.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

ID1J

Attachment:

FBI mengs and um

HE 18

PENDTNG

16 October 1962

SAK

Victor R. White

SECRET

GROUP

Encluded tram antamga;

downgrating ant!

declassificatien

i/

---

