# 104-10119-10188

## Page 1

F 104-10119-10188

UNCLASSIELED

CONFI

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEE!

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Hemming, Gerald Patrick

FROM:

Gerald J.

Swiftl 03

operations

Support Branch

4E27

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and:

building)

EXTENSION

15365

RECEIVED

DATE CA

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

1.

DC/OSB

C/OSB

3.

DC/SSD

15 Me 12. EN

i6 dee IT A

e/SSD

C/OSB

TIAL

SECRET

NO

#429 • 229

DATE

9715 December 197.

COMMENTS (Number each comment

whom..

'Drew a line across column. after

from

whom.

nich ,comment.)

5.

6.

7.

8

19 Qa/1Bp

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10

11.

12.

13.

MEMORANDUM

OF CALL

TO:

Cai

5

03

L YOU WERE CALLED BY.

• YOU WERE VISITED BY-

Hal Tittsler

OF (Organization)

I PLEASE CALL -

D WILL CALL AGAIN

I RETURNED YOUR CALL

PHONE

NO.

CODE/EXT.

[J IS WAITING TO SEE YOU

• WISHES AN APPOINTMENT

MESSAGE

When you call him back, pls tell

him:

There is a file

#429

229

on Gerald Patrick Hemming,

born

1 Mar 37 in LA. This file is

permanently charged to SAG.

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

There was NR on Ron(ald-?) Mongul

and also NR on variation Mongel co

amething for m

So me astel befund, tone.

RECEIVED BY

DATE

TIME

7:16.

Ta 63

63-108

GRo: 1950-048-14-80341-1 331-369

3/80

---

## Page 2

the to it to i

• ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Hemming, Gerald Patrick

MEerald J.

SwiftJ03

perations Support Branch

4E271

TO: (Officer designation,

number.

and

building)

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

5365

OFFICER":

NITIAL

NO.

#429 229

DATE TUN

15 December. 19771

COMMENTS (Number each "comment

to

to whom..: Draw a line across column

comment.

2.

3.

DC/ OSB

• C/OSB

DC/SSD

C/SSO C/OSB

16 due 17 A

5

6.

19 02/2501

Plineton this

to feing Brown,

PAG

1655]

03

10.

11

12.

13.

60

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

3/00

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

LET 2A17M

Gerald Patrick Hemming

#429 229

Do fithe SED aites. 03

DE/5SD

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

15 December 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Operations Support Branch

Gerald Patrick Hemming

#429 229

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

3/4/98 dol

D RELEASE IN FULL

1 RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

1. Hal Tittsler, ASAC, MFO called to request

a name check on Hemming and

a Ron Mongul or Mongel.

2. Tittsler was advised that OS had no record

of Mongul or Mongel, but that a file existed

on

Hemming.

3.

Tittsler explained that the Miami DCD Office

was queried by the Dade County Organized Crime Division

as to whether of not Hemming ever worked for the CIA

in Mexico.

The same inquiry pertained to Mongel

or Mongul.

4. I told Hal that Hemming never worked for

the CiA, and that he has

falsely claimed to have

worked for the CIA on several occasions.

I also

said that I thought this should be the

limit of his

response other than to refer the Organized Crime

Division to the United States Attorneys Office in

Miami for further information concerning Hemming,

as he was to have been brought to trial there in

August 1977.

5. I also advised Hal that inquiries of this

nature should be formalized.

Distribution:

Orig - File

1 - Chrono

OS: PSI: SSD: OSB

isKC

3/80

E-2 IMPDET

CL BY: 064

537

CONFIDENTIAL

---

