# 104-10120-10024

## Page 1

104-10120-10024

ind

5 February 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/SRS

FROM

SUBJECT

: C/LEOB

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

: Manuscript: Give Us This Day

Do Not Reproduce

Author: Edward J. Hamilton

A letter from Iom Walls of Holt, Rhinehart and Winston,

Inc. book publishers dated July 9, 1968 and addressed to Bill

Buckley of the National Review discusses tbe subject publication

and indicates that Holt, Rhinehart declined publication because the

manuscript by Hamilton was considered "far too controversial".

A note from Saroyan accompanying the manuscript indicated that

Buckley had sent this manuscript to Arlington House. A Henry

Durkin now publicity manager for Walker and Company handled

this manuscript while he, Durkin,

was working for Arlington House

some time ago. Walker and Company have just recently declined

to publish the manuscript apparently for the same reason as Holt,

Rhinehart and Arlington House. It was noted that Arlington House

rejected the manuscript as controversial because they had no way of

checking out the facts.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

A, review of the first few pages of the manuscript rather

clearly show this to be the work of E. Howard Hunt (OS file #23500),

presently a stáff employee assigned to the European Division of

DDP.

The fallowing items cated from the manuscript were

compared with factual data in Mr. Hunt's security file:

a) _Manuscript, page 6--"The air was cool on this second

day of December 1956...... twenty of us were seated

around theispacious office of the fon. Arthur Gardner,

American Ambassador to Cuba' (then in Havanna)

Hunt's file--travel order dated 19 November 1956 authorized

Hunt to travel to and from Havanpa on TDY during the period

7-15 December 1956.

b) Manuscript, pagel8, 9 "In 1926, at the heightil of the

Florida boom, my father was practicing law in Miami Beach";

the manuscript goes on tà indicate that Subject's father had a

serious problem with his business partner which related to

missing funds and the partnership was dissolved.

Hunt's file--Subject's personal history statement reveals that

Subject's father was an attorney. A Dun and Bradstreet report

dated 16 January 1945 indicated that when Subject's father was

with L. R. Steel Company as an attorney in the 20's that the

company failed with disastrous results, however, Subject's

father was exonerated after an investigation.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

c) Manuscript, page 10--"In March of 1960 I was having

coffee with the newly-elected president of the country

(Uruguay) to which I was assigned when a station officer

was admitted." The manuscript goes on to indicate that

Hunt had to report to Washington.

Hunt's file --Hunt had been

assigned to Montevideo, Uruguay

and a cable dated February 1960 received in Headquarters

from the Chief of; Station at Montevideo indicated that

President Nardone had asked drank President Eis enhower

to have Hunt's tour extended in Uraguay. The file further

reflects a travel order dated 20 June 1960 which ordered

Hunt from Montevideo to Washington with travel to commencé

in early May 1960.

d) Manuscript, page 19_- "Faving served several years in

Mexico"

Hunt's file --Subject was assigned tò Mexico City under cover.

in December 1950 and was returned PCS from Mexico City to

Washington on 1 March 1955.

e) Manuscript, page 23--"Reporting my failure to Quarters

Eye I returned to Washington and conferred with Barnes, Jake

and Bender. They recommended, and I agreed, that I ought to

visit Havana. to savor the atmosphere and minglywith the Cuban

3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

,..

people. Our cover staff provided me with documentation

that would support the operational alias I was to live with

for the duration of the Project: Edward J. Hamilton. I

drew a travel advance and flew to Tampa where I boarded a

National Airlines flight to Havana. "

Hunt's file--On 27 September 1960 action was taken to pro-

vide alias documentation to Howard Hunt in the name of

Edward J. Hamilton. This documentation included a bonafide

District of Columbia driver's permit in alias including back-

stopper

sole

diop residents address. Later, in June of 1963 a post office

box in Washington, D.C. was established for Hunt under the

name,Edward J. Hamilton.

A rather casual review of the rest of the manuscript indicates

general similarity

It the descriptive data of the author's ( Edward I.

and the actual

Hamilton's) activities with regard to the Cuban situation with these of

facts rey ander toward Hunt, and his ayeway cole,

It is quite clear that at least a number of minor compromises

of security are involved here. Additionally, personal opinion regarding

a number of prominent and in some cases former Agency employees

could be considered controversial if not actually damaging. Beginning

on page 214, the manuscript describes General Cabbles role in the

Cuban episode and it can be assumed that this presentation would do

---

## Page 5

14-00000

,...

Cabell's

little to add to General Gabble's reputation. Other references

throughout the manuscript may also produce provocative if not

alarming consequences when reviewed by those concerned or

described.

C/ LEOB

WEM/ ark

---

