# 104-10422-10407

## Page 1

104-10422-10407

90/p 4-2351

911

MENGRANDUM FCK: NI. J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

Fresident's Commission on the

Assassination of Fresident Kernedy

SUBJECT

Marina OSWALD's Notebooke

Attached herewith is information from this Agency's files on the

entries in Marina OSWALD's nutebook, a copy of which was receiver

from the Federal Bureau of Irvestigation under leir cammunication

dated 13 April 190%, Coples of this attachment have been forwarded

to the Federal Bsreau ol Investigation.

Richard Helris

Deputy Director for Flans

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:

Orig. & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP

1 - CI/RAG

V3 - SR/CI/Research

SR/CI/Research:

Acl

HOL RECITIO COLà OY

dra scene.

Document Number

685-297

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976.

5 May 1964

16

330.P 1

Excluded irom autumatic

dazograding and

facts locate

---

## Page 2

13-00000

See Sanitized File

Number

For stortie copy of this docurent.

101002409477 Rah0o0 05 196980

ducon 02. 2007 Taega Gold90

127 15R 2

S0S15I J01077

or passi

096H158 46 3032207

33023

This.

A7384

26270

Panded dui

1331

Papa Cagene

V925: 39A0752

195 4 2401z

9ae.192969947055

M6692002

S0l6 4.5321

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECKEl

DD/P. 9:2351.

8. - MAY 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR!

Mx.. J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

President's Commission on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

SUBJECT

¡: Marina OSWALD's Notebook

Attached herewith is information from thia Agency's files on the

entrien in Marina OSWALD's notebook, a copy of which was received

from the Foderal Bureau of Investigation under their communication

datod 13 April 1964. Copies of this attachment have been forwarded

to the Fedoral Bureau of Investigation.

L Charc

cha Pater lens

Deputy Director 10t Plans

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:

Orig. & 2 - Addressee

. DDP

1 • CI/RAG

3 • SR/CI/Research

SR/CI/Research:

5 May 1964

SECRET

GROUP g

Excluded fror antomatic

daan Taclan god

cocascification

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

The following is a compilation of traces

on what appear to be Soviet names, addresses

and telephone numbers from an address book

identified by Marina OSWALD as belonging to

her. The left columnlists the notations, trans

lated from the original Russian, as they appear

in the address book. To the right of each no-

tation is a comment on the notation made by

Marina OSWALD to the FBI and following this

are this Agency's trace results and clarifying

notes:

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excladed from artemalle

doneyraclay and

desiastlicallan

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Antonina Vladimirovna

Kobel 'nitskaya

Vladimirakly Prospekt

House 10, Apt. 7 (Galibina Al. VI.

Prospckt Stalina 122

Bookkeeping office K-&09-15

Ploshchad Chernyshevs sogo

House 12, Apto 3 Asto Vado

Vanda Kuznetsova

Ind Leningrad M-159

Kurskaya VI. 5, Apt. 38

G-2-04-81, extension 359

Further Identified by Marina OSKLD

as Antonina Vladimirovna KOBEL NITS.

KAXA, aka Astonina Vladinirorna GOLIa

BINA, Prospect #10, Apte lo stallI

lane 1122 - office (bookkeeping),

telephone K&0915.

fOr Cherisher.

sky Sq. 112, Apt. 3.) A11 adärcssee

1n Leningrad. Marina net Antonine

at a rest home near leningrad.

Traces: Lo None on KOBEL'NIISKAYA.

2.. The 1960 Brief Telephone

Directory for Orgonizatione In Lenin

grad lists the number K8-0915 for the

Stomatologicheskly Pol1kl1ntk (Stoma-

tological Polyclinic) at Moskovskly

Prospelt 122.

NOTE: Moskovckly Prospekt was for

merly Prospekt Stallo.

3. The 1961 Leningrad Tele-

phone Directory lists only one Godd

bina or possible variation thereof.

This 18 a Ko de GOLBINA Listed for

the number AO-0036, extension 2-35

at the addresa Tverskaya Ulitea 18.

NOTE: See entry for Vladimir MAKAROV®

4. Both Vladimirckly Pros-

pekt 10 and Ploshchad Chernyshevskogo

12 appear to be plausible Leningrad

addresses.

According to Marina OSWALD, Vanda

10 a nurse In Leningrad whom Marina

met at the rest home near leningrad.

Traces! lo None on KUZNEISOVA.

2. The 1957 Brief Guide to

Leningrad Iists the number G2-0482

for the S.M. KIROV Military-Medical

Academy at the address Akademika

Lebedeva VIstsa 6.

3. The "' 159" appearo to

be a Leningrad postal zone designa.

tiona Kurakaya Ulitea 5 appeare to

be a plausible leningrad address.

• 2-

SECRET

GROUP I

Encloded lem aslonalle

Paragradios dad

Cecls:6l0c.l9g

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Volodya A-00036

MAKAROV extension 115

Ulitsa Iverskaya

House 20, Apto 26

Marina OSWALD further Identified

this Individual as Vladimir (nick

name Volodys) MAKAROV whom she met

at a social function in Leningrad.

Traces: 1. The 1961 Leningrad

Telephone Directory 1ists a V. Pe

MAKAROV with the telephone number

A0-0036, extension 1-15 at the

address Tverskaya VIItsa 20.

2.

One V. P. MAKAROV,

& biophysicist specializing In

radiation Lajury to blood celle,

was reported to be attached to

the Physics Institute of the SI.:

berian Department of the Academy

of Sciences of the USSR In Krasno

yarsk as of July 1959.

3. One Vladimir MAKAROV,

an engineer born on 26 August 1925

In Babaevo, USSR; attended an elec

tronics conference in faris in

February 1963.

4o An American visiting

Yalta, USSR, In August 1959 met

an Aleksandr (INU) who was there

with his wife and younger daughter.

Aleksandr told the source of thie

Information that he was a physicist

working In a laboratory In Lenin

grad doing work on testing the

strength of materials for rockets.

Aleksandr gave Source the telephone

number A-00036, extension 126 to

call when Source came to Leningrad.

Source learned from Aleksandr'&

daughter that the family lived on

Iverskaya Ulitsa (number was not

obtained by Source) Source later

contacted Aleksandr In Leningrad

on the above number and was wined

and dined and escorted to the thea

ter by Aleksandr. However, Alek-

sandr told Source that he could

not invite her to his home because

1t would be too dangerous because

of his classified work.

SECRET

CRIM 1

Enclaced from salomalle

Comesrading and

---

## Page 7

13-00000

LL 606110 a

Sergey

245-93

5.

The addresses Tverskaya

Vlitsa 16, 18 and 20 appear to com

prise a large apartment complex with

a coumon telephone switchboard with

the number A0-0036.

6.

The 1961 Leningrad

Telephone Directory lists one I. Go

PRUSSAKOVA at the addreas Tverskaya

Ulita 18, telephone number A0-0036,

extension 2-19.

NOTE:

No relationship has been es

tablished between Marina (nee PRU

SAKOVA) OSWALD and I. Go PRUSSAKOVA

(spelled with a double S). I..G.

PRUSSAKOVA, which 15 one of only

three possible variations of the

name PRUSAKOV listed among the more

than 70,000 names in the 1961 Lenin»

grad Telephone Directory, In men

tioned here only because of the rem

Lationship of the, name to the

address and telephone number.

Identified further by Marina OSKALD

only as Sergey (INU); a pianiot and

one of her friends.

Traces: The number 2-45-93 appeara

to be a Minsk telephone number. The

1963 Minek Telephone Directory 11sta

the number 2-45-93 for the Kombinat

Mintorgmontazh Mezhoblaatnoy Opytoo

Konstruktorskoye Byuro (The BSSR

Ministry of Trade-Inter-oblast Com

bine for Design and Construction)

located at Internatsional naya

VIitsa 36, Minsk.

NOTE: This combine appeara to be

engaged. In the design and construc

t102 of store fronts, show cases,

show windows and other types of con.

struction in the field of merchan-

dising®

SEGRET

GROUP 1

Escinded from automall.

downrading and

Escla tilleade1

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

Ivanoy. Robert Ale

Vitsa Podbel'ekogo

House 7a Apto 2

Ixina Volkova

Igorskly Prospelt 131, Apto 9

Identified further by Marina OSHAD

as Robert Aleksandrovich IVANOV, &

resident of Leningrad. Marina ado

vised that she "believes" she met

this person also at the rest home

near leningred and that although

• Law school graduate, IVANOV,

worked as a chauffeur.

Traces? Ie

None on IVANOV.

2. The address should

probably be Podbel'skogo Pereulok

rather than litsa.

3o Among the IVANOVs in

the 1961 Ieningrad Directory 1s

one A.K• IVANOV who 1s listed with

the telephone number A0-0036, ex-

tension 1-60 and the address

Iver

Skaya Ulitea 18.

NOTE: The Initial A corresponds:

to the patronymic of Robert Alek

sandrovich IVANOV, SO A•K. IVANOV

could conceivably be the father

of Robert.

See entry for MAKAROV

for significance of telephone u

ber A0-0036.

Marina OSWALD further Identified

Irina VOLKOVA as having been at

the rest home near leningrad.

Marina also advised that Lev

PRIZENISEV goV. had "an amorous

Interest In VOIKOVA who, unfor

tunately was already married."

Traces: le None on VOLKOVA.

2 Ilgovakly Prospelt

131 appears to be a plausible

Leningrad address.

-5.

SEGNET

GROVE 1

Encooce Iren Tulonelle

doungradies and

declassicalay

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

Printseva Golya

Ulitsa Grazhdanskaya

House 7?, Apt. 49

D-2-09-10, Printseva

Prizentsev Lev

Kondrat yevskly

House 7, Apt.

63 or

House 63, Apt. 7.

Further Identified by Marina OSWAID

as Galina (Galya) PRINISEVA, a rESI

dent of Leningrad with who she

shared a room at the rest home near

Leningrade

Tracess I. None on PRINISEVA.

The address Grazhdar

skaya Ulitsa 7 appears to be a

rather large apartment building In

Leningrad.

3. Of two PRINISEVs (or

variations thereof) Iisted In the

1961 Ieningrad Telephone Directory,

one A.A. PRINISEV 16 listed for the

number 10-0036, extension I-51, at

the address Tverskaya Ulitsa 18.

NOTE: See entry for Vladimir MAn

KAROV concerning telephone number

A0-00-36.

• .

According to Marina OSWALD, she

met PRIZENISEV, Who 18 a resident

of leningrad, at the rest home

near Leningrad. Marina advised

that PRIZENISEV had "an amorous

Interest in Irina VOLKOVA [gov]

who, unfortunately was already

married."

Traces: 1.. None on PRIZENISEV.

2. Robert E. WEBSTER,

who renounced his U.S. citizenship

In 1959 when he defected to the

USSR and who returned to the U.S.

as an allen under the Soviet quota

In May 1962, claimed to have re-

sided in a three-room apartment at

Kondrat yevskly Prospelt 63, Apt.

18, Leningrad, during his stay 1n

the USSR.

3. Both Kondrat'yevskiy

7 and Kondrat'yevskiy 63 appear to

be plausible Leningrad addresses.

- 6-

SECRET

Chil 1

Exclaged tres salamatic

699a98, a30

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Rachitskaya Nonna

Moyka 10, Apto 39.

Robert Robertovich

Grigor yev-Nayman

Moyka 25, Apto 3.

School, 215

Tarusin Oleg Pavl.

Kirovskaya Obl. Shaba

skly 8/5

According to Marina OSkAlD, she

and Nonna RACHITSKAYA had attended

middle school together. After

middle school RACHIUSKAYA had

lived somewhere in the Caucasus.

At still a later date Marina met

RACHITSKAYA at a drug store In

Leningrad.

Traces: I. None on RACHuSKAT

2. Moyka 10 appeare to

be a plausible leningrad address.

Further identified by Marina OS

WALD as Robert Robertovich

GRIGOR 'YEV-NAYMAN, Moyka 25, Apte

3, School 215, Leningrad. AC=

cording to Marina, he was the

principal in a middle school In

whose cafeteria she had worked

while she was attending pharmacy

schooLe

Traces: 1. None on GRIGOR'YEY-

NAYMAN®

2. Moyka 25 appears to

be a plausible Leningrad address.

Identifled further by Marina OS-

KAID as OLeg PaVlOViCh VARUSINe

NONE:

Apparently TARUSIN was &

former boy friend of Marina OSWALD

and the son of Yekaterina Nikitich®

Da (s1c) TARUSINA. Marina received

congratulations on the birth of her

first child (February 1962) In a

telegram from Leningrad signed (Inu)

TARUSINA•

Traces: l None on TARUSIN OF

TARUSINA.

2. There 1s a Shabalin-

skly Rayon In Kirovskaya Oblast!

In the RSFSR. Ukazinskly 8/s

probably indicates a Sel'sovet

(Village Soviet) named Ukazinakly.

•7.

SECRET

GhOUr 1

Exclusso from solomalle

cannuramas and

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECHET

Tadeush Tamara

N. Go Minsk

ULIta Belonorskaya

174 "A", Apt. 2

Further Identified by Marina OSKARD

as Tamara Nikolayevna TADoUSE, BelO

morskaya 174 "A", Apt. 2, Leningrad.

Marina described Tamara as a friend

who worked with her In the same

hospital. According to barina,

Tamara worked as & gynecologist.

NOTE: According to Marina OSWALD's

statements, the only hospital in

which she had worked was In Minske

Traces: * None on TADEUSE.

2. Both Minsk and Lenin

grad have an Ulitsa Belomorskaya

and It appears that the address

would be plausible for either city.

The small go before Minsk In the

address in all probability 1s an

abbreviation of the Russian word

gorod which means town or city.

SECRET

GP1

Ensladed fren safamali

dangrollas. Bad

---

