# 104-10181-10023

## Page 1

104-10181-10023

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

SECRET Do Not Reproduca

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 1I - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

POSTRUCTIOOS TO CASE OFFICER

202325550

PRO NO.

CHUPTONTH

AKHINT-2

None

SECTION

INDICATE NO», THEM, THERE. UNT. AND BY

"NOA SUBJECT HAS FIRST CONTACTED DA DEVELOPED.

Subject was first contacted by Harold R. NOSSAYR as case officer handling

the AMIRON affiliate

organization, Directorio Mevolucionario Estudlant1l

(DhE). Subject was

Secretery

of urganization at that time. subjoct was

trained for Clandestire operations in PSRUVEN by this caso officer during

period October and s'ovember 1960 and Infiltrated in

was carried on in South Miami and the keys. Subject was sent to RETAL

area in November 1960 for documentation

for infiltration. Subject was

Introduced to this case officer by Alberto ILLER, DRa Secretary General,

who has been Imprisoned in coniato Pyison

since April 1961.

MADICATE "NETHER SUBJECT COULD DE TURNEO OVER DUICELY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIRLE CASE OFFICER FOR

MANOLING. DE SO. INDICATE PE TICH.

Subject could be turned over to any rusonasible case officer, but for

best rapport in hancling, tols case orficer

knowledge

should possess good

and appreciation of the vackground of the student movement

in PRUMEN.

LISY OTHER CASE OFFICERS ANO NAVE MANDLED SUBJECY ON THON HE ANORS OR NAS XIONS, GIVE MANES BY WHICH THEY HAVE

BEEN RHODY.

Subject has met Oliver H: CORPUSTON on one or two occasions and knows

"Douglas GIPTON. "

1050a

SECRET

14- 20}

---

## Page 2

SECTICA PA

SECRET

MOTIVATICH ANE CCATROL

Subloct 1s :

's porelandstenly courated dy ravilut nory coal to liberato

is establish n'.golf ag a liader

sei tro stulont

ruv. ment. hnil-joamunismis strong in hin, but only as a secondary

rotlvation and connected with the present surlagle In PBHINEN.

ISPICATE ONAT COMPROL,

LE ADT, CRISIS OVER THE SUBILCI, (18 no control, er al there de a lock of peal control

+30/010.)

Present day control over subject is vested in JAVE position as

supporting the Das in finance

and matariel. Subject Is subordinated

to this relationslp. isthout t is situation, he would probacly be

difficult to control

In view of the fact nis family has been modestly

wealthy and he is inclined to strong hesded and inflexible.

SECTION

COVER

COVER USEO BY SUAJICT AND CASÉ OFFICEA IN THEIR MEETINGS.

Nost meet'ngs are held under physical cover, ut those that are hold

In public places are usual business coffee shop meetings.

8. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN DOTAINING MIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING NIS INFORMANIS.

Subject does not function in collection of Information.

S. INDICATE SERVICE FOR UNIDO SUBJECT TMINAS NE (HIlI POrk) (la norRand).

KUBARK

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

• ERPLAIN SUBJECT'S

KNOMI PAST JA PRESENT CONNECTION-WITH

ANY. OTNER INTELLIGENCE SERbIEE. INDICATE THE ENTENT

UCH CONNECTIAL

1S ANOE OVERTLY.

None known.

8. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (ABORTS, PRIORIVER, (ESPRUS) MHO XNON OF SUBJECTIS PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

Probably his father

and mother. Other landers of the DRE.

S. EXPLAIN ANY TRAIMIG SUBJECE MOS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

SECTION Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

BADICATE OTME

SOCIATION:

FORAICN PODER SEDUECT POURO DE MOST LIXELY TO COLLABORATE DITE RECAUSE OR MIS POEOLOGY OR PAST

Unknown or extrerels difficult to estimate. Possioly Soain in view

of family background.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECTION VI

MATISE A MAS PURRISHED

SECRET

OPERATIONAL USE • COYACT

TO DOTEN HE DAS TRUDLO

jot contacted before.

PADICATE MOO AND FROM WHO SUBUICY OBTAINS INFORMATION.

NA®

D. ANDICATE

HAS DERM

SUBJECT AS TO THI DISPOSITION OF

IAFORMATION ME PUNISHES.

NA I

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSIO FI OR CE TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

IImited FI dutias during accomplishment of DRE mission In PERUMEN.

S. DETAIL SUBJECT•S PROPOSED PP-PA TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

In PP field and during accomplishment DRE mission in liberation of

PERUMEN, subject has und will gonerate consid ra-le anti-communist

and Pro- PBPRIME propaganda. lils PM duties will be limited, but

luvolves some sabotaie and demolition as well as distribution

organization of clandestine-guerilla groups within PBRUMEN.

SECTION VID

24 PROPOSED

TOR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

• DETAIL SUBJECP'S PROPOSED

JURE SONTASI ON DPGRATIOMAL USSI

A. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMDER OF A

24

NA

B. KHERE SUBJECT IS AN OSFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY:

NA

SECTION VITT

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

". FERSONM MAMONOTO SUNSY PELATIONSHIR MITH SUBJECT, P.G. TRAINEE, ORROSITE NUMBER, REMUALRATION. IS ANY AGENCY

somuneration. No a joncy per onnel known to

subject.

SECRET

3/PU

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SECTICH IN

NALIFICATICRS FOR OTHER REFATIONS

A010::.89. MB.EDES, NE GLALIDICATIORS POISESSIO DO SLOIÇE ANICE CLO COUCH-DAD? ME NE

SON OPHRA OPEDATIJOS.

SOme

añit/oreo saa flabllitlag.

during

reconstrictin

Inct arold to valuatle con.act

ora - post-CAsiRo.

SECTION

COMA I THEA TS

S.9U809 A REGILAR

SUBSICO DE SPARE DETRIE. SPICIFY

sal arv.

INDICATE THE BEENLY ANDUOR, DO PADDONE TO DE MADE DO CACHANGE

837 GIVE

DETAILS.

Subjoct ragular muinly salary of

of

nis elderly parents are

exiled here

$275. Inis sum is based on the sup: ort

In PiPhile.

suiject has nevor

expected more tian subsistence and supplios for himself.

PO PISSE OTHEROISE NOT COULARO MERGIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. fERDADIO: cOmo

Nend.

SECTION XB

CE AND SECURITY

B. INDICATE THE FIELO AGENCIES ADS FIELO FILES NITA MICH SUBJECT-S NAME HAS DIEN CHECHED AND TNE RESULTS.

LoCal ODENVY - no serog info.

INDICATE OSNER INDESTIGATIDE MIASURES TARIN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPMICAL INFORMATION PURVISHLO BY SUBJECT.

POA requested and granted.

INDICATE WHETHER DA

PROVAL

OR SURE TAS OSTROS SEEN PERIOUSLY OR APPRO

SPERATIOHAL APPROVAL OR OFERATIONAL AP.

8. DATE APPROVAL OSPAINED

POA Granted.

EVALUATE SUBJECT-S CHARACTER. BELIABILITO AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE MERE POSSIDLE.

4 Nov 60

Subject Is basically honest, tengacious, courageous. he is reliable

up to a point of confliet with their orjanizational objectios.

student revolutlongry real is sometimes uncontrollable and security

as well as redlability suffer for this. Has no security violations.

E-EXPLAIN ANY SITUATIOS OR PRDISCRETION IN EMICH SUBJICE MAY MAVE BEEN INVOLVER SNICH MUST BE CALUATIO EACH

CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VAINPSIST.

Then DRE lealer Albarto MILLER waS In

Sierra Maestra grouping a band of about 400 gueridlas, nubA failed

to support this effort with material airdrops. with

their leader abardoned

and In jeopardy, suaject wrote

to contacts in

PBPhIN: swearing trat he

would kill the XUAFKERS Involved If anytring should happen to MLLER.

SECTION XI!

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MABITS

No use of liquor, drugs, samblini, paranours-

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECTION XI!!

SECRET

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

Fishing. Utrors

unknown.

ODDICATE BHETHER

A COUNTRY OR PIGTON DES LANGUAGE

THAT HIS OF

NO.

_GENERAL

OTNIA COARACTIMISTIES, ARE SIDO AS ME COULO PASS AS A MATIVE

"DESPONDENCE OTHER NONS'" DRO PARTS I AMO "I WAS OBTAINED BY RESTARGH, CLARESTINE

• ASSESSMENT.

FILES.

Clandestine assessment

"' DATE THAN OUTING ACTIOM IS REQUIREO, IN AND WHEN TERMIMATION OR SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLANA

(Al so

¡tone required.

SECTION XY

DHERGENCY COMDITIONS RECONTACT APRANGENEATS

GIVE FULL DETAILS 1.F. RECOGMITION SIGNALS, SINI MHERE COULO CONTACT BE MADE MNAT SERA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUÁL

Person making contact with subject must mention association

"Ro er Box"

SECTION XYI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATICHAL DATA AND REMARKS

DATE

/N8iP561

SECRET

---

