# 104-10183-10091

## Page 1

104-10183-10091

porting

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

REPS:

214

and 6661 (IN 86053)

16788 (In. 89336), 6645 (In 84957), 6646 (IN 84981); 6647 (IN 85000)

-1. A study of reis indicates Carrillo responding WHIPIS querlos freely. This gives

- rise to several suppositions:

02. 7) Knows of the WIP/AMASH-I rélationship and is part of the LASH/AMSUEIRASY

"or EL MACO TAH, although WHIP DOESNeT Kid THIS, which seens un

2) suspects that hIP 1s f in contact with the Averteans and, in line with his

on - Carrillosis - assistance to Fidel Castro in the atterpted rapprochment with

the USA, 1s appearing to cooperate by answering WHIp?s innocuous questions about who

Is who and in what position in the GOC, whereas when asked about the influence or

Importance of Cuban Cormunists, Carrillo replies fi firmly that Castro 1s diminshing

thair influence in Cuba by reducing their furtadiction (and oitpas oxamples), soone!

It should be noted that Carrillo's examples are interesting - they are all examples

in of first ochelon Commnists? who have been disnissed (Edith Gareia Buchaca) or tho

Lave had their apheres of Influence decreased (Carlos Rafael Rodriguez and Manue),

Juzardo). Now, NitAStI says the CP 19 putting its mon in a ranning ministrlest ani

osackontadass as replacements for Inept Fidelistas, What 1s seant by Balaning

FInistrion"?

ASH also says that the CP/ritess in Cubanatadles 1s Increasing in

importance, yet we knou fros Diderico Potorosen Parroto that the Manager of Cubamotales

(Mauro CARA:Ze Danza) 1s arts-regise and ant 1-Cornist, decepting MiasHto atateone.

ny true, tota sho 1a inerasire the importance of the ep nuclous - Carranza, unwittingly,

or Cho Vico Mgr. Of Ops M/" (Hermindo Carela Lso?), Cubantules! boss, or mo else?

In adelon, so Neat resche, and carrillo unanaro of ella, or la ho ailine collins

WHIP for passage to the Azericans aims only abour lia favorallo aspects of Castrolo

allompo lo control the CP In Cuid. In any case, de moull appear that 8u 18 CAsErO

1o airanpline to soally bloe d'a CP, no should le allackine toth the middle acralon

(ansen so inerasino and laportre sla position) do voll as the cop.

71BR

---

