# 104-10106-10826

## Page 1

104-10106-10826

¿Is Folygraphed by Lloyd EUll on Carrison's Charges.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

verdul Juane NOVEl., already a fugitive witneas in the Not Reproduce

¡arrison inquiry. is reported in the Washington prese of 27

arch 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the

case unier investigation by Garrison. According to the prese

reports. "OVEL submitted to a polygraph exainination

conducter at Meloan, Vligtaia by Lloyd FURR. In stotementa

lo the press, FURR indicatod there ivas no indication of

Irception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case la a

Moyd: :123'e Relationship to Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Llord FUPR. a furiner District of Columlia policemas and now

a trivale detective, is a self-proclalmed polygraph 'expert"

and sound device specialist. He has received poblicity is the

pact ior planting sound devices for the late F'ulton Lewls, Jr.

in the !!, "lary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 whon be

idocared listening devices being used againal Bernard Golifine.

In 1904, information was received that a l'achlagton, I. C.

tr., Palex, operated by iUAk and lichardi. BAST, was

atle ping to sell clectronic oquipment to Co:.: munist China vis

an agon in long ung. (ISD had unclassifled contact wits

ill in 1902 to see equipmont offered for able ly fUlR.!

Kicuard i. Dast, a Manhinglon, 1.C. private retreiive, galord

noterdely in 19u'e ly turning up a rilosing witness, previonaly

unlocated by the Departinent of Justice, in connectlon with tho

Lobby taker case.

Fie la known to operate at least four

enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a

rivats elective agency; 2) EDEX VICINAY, INC., a firin

tient costs a variety of commodities renging from liquor to

luis: iles into South Victoani, including, of late, U.S. -rocruilrd

irls for a Seigon nigbtclub he ly planning: 3y REDE.:

soard tim wlich sella almont anything to anybody abroad.

sherd an Gouth Vietnam; and 4) CONSOLIDATEL ARMAMENTS

i., a lira, which sells sinall aims to foroigo governments ind

Frivate individuals abros. EAst also produces and alatriluice

•de rosive nudio and conlot: raudio devices in tie U.S. En:'

3.21

---

## Page 2

-I PAST, described an "urscrupulous and untrust-

ordly', in i nown to have after pled to contract ith another

palate

etecilue for plasting a remote controlled lamb in the

hdruarters of the liaill Socret foller, and his heen reported

lo have undertaken similar extrene astignmente fos exile

1ºou?s:501: Haiti and the Dominican Fiepublic. (Eased on

icto2u1:ry information on flle, DCS, in March 1967, declded

¡grine: arcriously contemplated contact with FAST aS &

source ul Information on Asta. )

" BAUT, rEpRy, and William i. TURNER Of EA: FARTS

in ines has jouvided information that during January 1967.

•illin': w. TURNER, Who leentified himself as a free-lance

rites, voited the offices of the dule Foundatha, requeling

lid gration 1or a magazlne artlele.

ile atated that be had

in.::"leci ly Dol Stern of New J'ork to gatior Iriormation for

licie in the New York Times. Musing his visit, however.

He alvious that TURNEP was priined to a3! questlons

"is inancing of the foundation, rather thin its actual

•ic: orectivities.

"hen TURNER concluded the Interview

i calling card with the lem, name 'IND X-PACIFIC".

:::?:,no: he had to have now cards printo!. TURNER,

matedly lismissed from the FIll In 1901, la noted to havo

17:÷

un article In tho Noverter 1966 lanue of RAMTARTS

win, in which he describos alleged wiratapping, sur-

ili. dis cuiry, rtc.o perforined ly him while with the FFI.

::ri, illu be claimed to represent, la analstart

• 129019.

Ine istenied to detail the contrel of NOV: 1.

Jat's connection with MArT, and a possible

wing inricates the only Cll involvenint In the chair

i in exploited la cubiccuest all.:.a to link Cia

tic matr in quection. )

2

---

## Page 3

"REl

:: 11/6 iz maich he documented a concrsation be had on

27 April 1^63, with Raymond CASSI.GNOL, an anti-Duvaller

•ille iro: ait!. on the memorandum he relatos that the

conver-alion took place in tho homo of lichard L MAST

110...

Ten had tet through a neightos, Lloyd FURt.

¿tie sur oranduri rolates CASSAGNOL'e background, family.

political "tence, ete. Reported as significant by Owea la &

tric:ent ly liST that the following week BAST would be

"naiing a ebipiose of arms to a CAssAGnoL riniated group

1s the tominican Popullic. Owen noted: "Raymond

1s: 0:11, gives appearance of thisking well of Richard

2oSd.

Accorsing to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacques,

also: now? MASI And respocts him. Thus EAST, In spito of

cartain ;: reonal shortcomtaga from the Inichligence standpoles,

does renrosent an establiahed channel to at least one segment

of lise Mallian opposition to luvaller. Since according to his

ivantstr.ent, BAST la eupplying arme to CASSAGNOL'e

arous, lirther transactions of this type via LAST presumably

would 10l le :lificult to arrengo." Me also provided a detailed

tring cation on that ho lezrned of RAST, noting that BAST had

wei ned tomlaican distrust of State and AID and the fact that

"*I rule-crossed them" (the Dominicans).

An inI report on NAST dated 19 June 1963 reports that Owon,

Gerian Service decerve Officer, USDS"f

Thad

¡eterial 15 1157 1953 his attendanco at dinãer at RAST's horie

o. i? april 1943. wes told of his meeting with CASiGNit.

na:s': intention to tell arina to the Dominican Renuille and

ritten tride, etc.

He alco reports that on? May 1967, 115T

aron die to perform soine translation worl. The tranglailor,

meisten, calated to jAST giving a gover of attorney to eac

'uis:

"NO Martinea of the Dominican Republic to prepare

mation for legal establishner d RiDES CORPORATION,

0: 1.., & DI Urnach of BAST's firin, According to Owen,

on the etock was to le held by the head of the Di. Maticonl

Tourit; Anoncy, the hood of the DE secret police, an! an

win roll-ennected with Don irican Rerublic police end

mi: woe 89003g. BAST is aloo sotud to tave told Oran

ster naut had iade to "bug" the difice of thie Doininican

VRV

---

## Page 4

... •

-cri!:? State for the Armed Forces on lehalf of Juan

AüT i i not indicate to twen if had perfozied

the jai.

(There is no secord of a clearance having been losued for

utillantion of Tichard L. BAST OF REDE&.)

---

## Page 5

- 3/24

New Orleans.

Probe Figure l

In D.C. Area

His l'nited Prem Intertatinnal

riordon Noxel, the "missing

wilhess" in New Oricans Dist.

Atts: Jim Carrison's investiga is

tion

of an alleged Kennedy

assassinatin conspirary.

prospered

in a Washinglon

suburb gesterday andtook a lie

1:

detector. test on his charge that

the Garrison investigation.uns a

"Iraud."

The encrator of the polygraph!

iless, Llovd Furr of Nickran, ll

Va. said Novel "passer" the lie

lest.

"He

shored

no decry-

linns." Furr said

"Do

honestis believe

carrison's conspiracy prosect-

Mon so a fraud" Furs said his

asked sorri

"jos." too saur?

38 fastmeg

araghtclots

10g0r9:91038.

kel!

shortly

defore in prand sury:

• morostigating

the'

tried to subpoena him.

In Now

Orleans, Judge Mal-!

theis Braniff has issued misers

for Novel to post a sadows bond!

N.5

n material witness or li

arrested ns a fugilive.

Novel's connection

with the

Garrison investigation has dever

here precisely spolled sun.

Wash Stan

---

