# 104-10216-10234

## Page 1

104-10216-10234

SECRET

AMLASH-I

-=

1 July 1964

NEHORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Test of Open Sight Hood for 7. 82mm Bolgiun (YAL) R111e

ARREICE: A) Mano for led, datod 35 May 1986, Subdect: PAr.

BJlenCer8/8ights, Iron C/VE/BA/NOR/PE

8)

Heso for Red. dated 10 June 1964, Subjeot: Toite

0f Mod1810d Blenta for 7.63 Belgius (PAL) R111e

On 15 and 16 Juse 1984. the underaigned and fir.

T3D/SDB went to

I to test an open sight bood for

tho 1.62m Belgiun (PAL) Rifle developed in answer to Bof. A.

The Modified Willians peop sight developed previouly in anawer

to Bel. A and reported on ta Rel.

B. proved unsatisfactory to the

roquester.

The anap on sight hood was then developed on a quick

reaction basis to bo simpler to inatall and onnier to use than

the Williana sight.

In addition sono improved underloaded 7.62mm

NATO rounds having

doft, annaled canes and crean of wheat filler

vere tested for performance.

These vere developed ta hopes of

8.

The open sight hood snaps over the entating rear eight

of the Yal riflo, and in thoory makes shooting in poor light or

ut night osater.

It can be used with either standard Isotory

loade or the underloaded amunition in conjunction with the muzzle

•attachment silencer.

The notch on the roar sight hood ie "u" shaped

and rased to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the lou

velocity amunition.

The hood is easily dotached making the con

ventional peep sight sunilable any tine 1t 1a desired.

The attached data sheet unarizes the test remits.

was lound that none fantliarization vas necessary to got used to

the open sight.

Under idenl conditions the eight vas as easy to

use as the poop might although it was nore difficult to maintain

uniform vertical grouping.

The relationship between the eye and

roar sight vas found to be very critical.

An the teeth proceeded

@ change vas noted in the polat of lapset v. polat of ain which was

thought to be duo to a chango in sight picture on the part cl the

anderaimed.

1.

The Improved ammnition vas found to be quite consistant

Futilian performance.

The uno of cream of wheat filler to tamp the powder

charge saint the priner vas an stteupt to get soro even denitio.

with correspondingly taproved accuracy.

The erpended cartridge

*cases vere chockod periodically and no ovidence usa. found of the

soft annenled cases not expanding properly.

During the teste the

rifle and ammunition conbination instillod a dogree of confidence

1o the undersigood not present in the previous teato.

SEGRET

64.71

has 174 8.

ANTIN 19

---

## Page 2

5.

Testa were conducted in the evening to determine the degree

of usefulness of the sight in poor light.

Is this respoct a 22

Caliber Hi-Standard pistol with folding shoulder stock and Bushnell

1.38 Phanton scope was tested in comparison.

The scope was

equipped with yellow 11ltora to brighten the sight ploturo for

low Light level use.

It was the opinies of both teat personnel

.. that the scope was superior to either the poop sight or open aight

fon as long as their me sone Illumiration on the silhouette

targets.

Once the light failed the scope was completely useless

although the underslaned could atill discers rargot. with the raked

eye out to 50 yde.

All actual shooting was done with the open

sight and some difficulty was experienced in hitting the targets

at ranges of 100 yds, or sore even at dust.

The closer targets

could be easily hit up until 1t bocame too darà to see them at all.

A largo rain cloud noriag from behind the firing position gradually

obecured all available light. For the final abooting at 25 yde.

occasional lightning flashes gave only a vague avareness of tho

target location.

At no time during the aight trials uas there Boy

muEle flash visiblo fros the under loaded anaunition and suzzle

BiJoncer combination.

the gas port witch was In The ofs position

during the daylight trials was turned on at night hut no flash was

vialble at the breech.

A fine white cloud of cream of wheat

powder was visible in front of the mzzle at almost full darkness

but could not be seen sore than 30 feet away.

6. Listenor trials vero conducted the following day to deter-

Bine bow far away an alert listener could discern the nechanical

noise of the nechanian and that of the round being fired.

Mr.

unlked away domwind at an angle of 90 degrees to the line of ilre

and stopped to listen every 25 paces.

The undersigned fired

single rounds, (hand actuating the sechanien) each time Mr.

• stopped.

At 335 paces, or roughly 275 yda.. Er.

I reported

he could still hoar the mechanian being actuated,

the round being

I1rod, and the bullet striking a concrete pillar 200 yds. down-

range.

However, he stated that he night not have noticed the sound

at that range had he not been listenlag for 11 specifically.

• 7.

One of the major caused for concern at the start of the

tests uns that the croan of weat filler might clog the silencer

and render it ineffective.

A total of 200 rounds vore fired with

the silencer in place and the noise level did seen to be higher at

the finish of the socond day.

(Bound numbers 180 to 200 were the

ones expended during the previously mentioned listener trials).

Inspection of the silencer at a later date revealed considerable

croan of wheat renidno in the screening.

Sound level mensurementa

made in the All sound lab showed that unile the total noise level

was no higher, the duration am relatively longer.

This would

make the silencer so louder to near by observers but not increase

the range at which it could be heard.

However, from a stand

point of the ability for a listener to disorialsate a ellencor

being fired from randon noise, the longer duration fiven him a

bottor chance to rocognise what he hears.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

iti

ist!

8.

On 19 June 1964, the undersigned vent to the warehouse

at frarconia to try to fit the sight hood to otber 7. 65mm FAL

rifles.

It was suspected that the fit might be a problem when it

would not fit over the rear sights of three fAl rifles at Isolation.

Although it was lator doteruinod that the thros rifles vore of a

different lot and may therefore have different tolerances on the

rear sight casting, it vas felt that further checking was necessary.

Nine PAl rifles from the sane lot as those obtained by WH/SA/MOB/PM

were unpackaged and the sight hood tried on the rear sight.

01

the nine, two were perfect fits and the other seven too thick

for the hood to fit.

Tain created a problem da that the bigai

hoods had to fit rifles which for operational reasons could not be

masured before hand to deteraine the thickness of the rear sight

blade. Providing adjustent in the slot of the eight hood mould

have complicated the fixture to the point where it could become

operationally unauitable.

Therefore it was determined that the

best solution vas to provide several sull files with the hoods.

The peep sight on the rifles, a soft casting, was found to be

quite easy to 111o.

In most cases it would be necessary only to

file several thousandths to obtain a proper 11t.

Thia procedure

was explained to C/H/SA/NOB/Fu and he stated that it would be

acceptable.

9.

On 24 June 1964, three open sight hoods with accessorses

consisting of two files and & mall acrowdriver were turned over

tO C/OR/ BA/NOB/PH.

In addition, 400 rounds of improved under.

losded ammunition with cream of sheat filler vere provided so a

roplacemont for the orIgInaL

100 underloadod rounde.

On 29 June 1964, it was discovered that a scope was availabl

supply syeten.

are being taken to obtain a scope for

evaluntion.

The resulte sill be forwarded to C/H/SA/MOB.

T8D/KB

009/TSD/3B/DJA/EC

ce:

C/TSD

С/Ш/SA/20B/PH

904489

Da Nei

35208 2557

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

STANDARD VELOCITY AMMUNITION, DAYLIUT:

RANGE

100 yds.

100 yda.

100 yds.

100 yde.

RAUP BETTING

BIGHT TIPE

POINT OF IMPACT

(RELATIVE TO POINT OF AIM)

No.

No.

No.

No.

Peap

Peop

Open

Hood

Open

• Hood

On

On

24°

36° nigh

BROADED ANUNITION, OPEN SIGHT HCOD, DAYLIGHT:

POINT OF IMPACT

BAMP BETTING

CRELATIVE TO

POINT OF AIL

RANGE

23

25

yds.

yds.

50 yds.

75

100

yda.

100

yds.

ydr.

100 vile.

125

123

yus.

yds.

No.

No.

NO.

No.

Tull

Elevation

Jull

Elevation

Full

Blovation

Pio

$*°

3*

high,

low

O1

**

8"®

Full Elovation

150 yds. Jull Elevation

syds. Full Ilovation

101t% 4" low

lost.

8" 10w

(D188.

Shooter)

1018,

On

1o1t.

18"

1 ow

(Changed Bight, Pleture)

On (Changed Bight Picture)

8" 208: Changed Bight plo-

turo)

EXTREMS

SPREAD

3/4*°

• 3/44

5*9

« 00

©**

EXTRA L

6

HORIZONTAL

SPREAD

8*

SPREAD

NO. OF HOUNDE

VERTICAL

SPREAD

NO.

OF HOUNDS

13°°

18"

88*

targot)

missed

targot)

* 10

---

## Page 5

UNDRRIOADED ANNUNITION, OPEN SIGHT HOOD, DUSE.

RANCE

NO, OF HITS

200 yco.

10

EORINONTAL SPREAD

119"

VERTICAL SPREAD

:889

yde.

10

•Could mor

tarret more

clearly troura toel

sicht int no roundi

wore fired.

Could moo targot very

clearly vith 1. 38

Boure

UNDER: DADED ANNUNITION, ALMOST FULL DARK, OPKI

SIGHT BOOD:

RANGE

75 yda.

33 gds.

NO. OF HOUNDE

NO. OF HITS

BORBONTAL SPREAD VERTICAL BPRRAD

10

•

48%9

10

20

. 19900

. REMARKE C

Poop wint colone

Could

Joe targote

ont

300 yds. with filterod

scopo at atart of

sirinti could not eo

at; a11 "/scopo at

$101n

OERLOADED ANNUNITION, OPEN BIGHT BOOD, PUL DARY:

RANGE

a8 yes.

NO. OF BOUR!

RO. OF HITS

RENAIKS

10

$ (scattored) Targat in total darinene, sain cloud overhond

inter

mitrant lightning flamben jave

& vague awarenosa of

tergot location.

---

