# 104-10128-10367

## Page 1

104-10128-10367,

.""

SECRE!

17 January 1956

MENDRANDU FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FROM

SUBJECT

: Chief, Cover Support Desk

: PHILLIPS, David A.

#40696 C.S.

GIST:

Subject, a former covert associate, requests refund of

$279.55 which was withheld by covert tax unit. He will file ar

overt return covering staff employment and will conceal salary

paid to him as covert associate. No apparent Security objec

tion.

DETAILS:

I. The attached copy of the Subject's menorandum to the Fin-

ance Division, dated 10 January 1956, was received in this office

on 10 January

1956.

to the subject s79.55 which was withheld from his salary during

the perica from 1 January 1955 to 30 April 1955.

During this per-

iod, the Subject was a covert

associate.

Fron 1 Fey 1955 to 31

December 1955, the Subject was & staff employee and as such will

be issued a W-2 form covering this period.

2. Subject advises that he will file an overt return util-

izing the waz and will report the amount of the salary he received

as a covert associate from 1 January 1955 to 30 April 1955 as mis-

cellaneous fees by adding them to "legitimate Income derived from

authorized outside sources."

3. SO files reflect no apparent basis for a Security objec-

DDS/I8S

SSD, Chiel

Dep. Chief

A. lo Chief

A. to Dep.

fe & Tong.

co. Inv

TCh. Saip.

Ct: CER

D: oi. Desk

CUE Desk

OC Desk

Open Desk

LED Files

CSHR

and as the owner of a newspaper in South America.

SECH

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

4 Your Security concurrence was obtained on 16 January

1956 due to a request from PP Administration to expedite the

handling of the Subject's request.

concurrence had been granted by FI/OPS/CCB and OGC.

ACTION:

None - for your information.

Attachment:

Memorandum dated 10 January 1956

16 January 1956

CLOSED

- 2-

GEORET

---

