# 104-10113-10404

## Page 1

104-0113-10404.

SECRET

...

21 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

MI. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA Matters

Robert W. Gambino

Director of Security

HSCA Request

1. (U/AIUO) Reference is made to the 19 July 1978

request of the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

for

assistance of the Agency in arranging interviews in

Mexico with ten individuals (OLC 78-2718). The records of

the Office of Security have been checked and files have been

located on eight of the ten individuals.

2.

(S) The following is a brief outline of the nature

of the

relationship that the Agency had with each of the

eight individuals on whom the Office of Security has files.

The outline also indicates whether or not this

file has been

requested for review by the HSCA and whether or not it has

actually been reviewed by HSCA staff members.

June Cobb Sharp - OS. File #216 264 reflects opera-

tional interest in this American citizen from 1960 until

1968.

The file, which is in three volumes, has been

partially reviewed by HSCA staffers_Lopez and Hardway.

Henry P. Lopez

- OS File #203 377

reflects operational interest in this American citizen

from 1959 until 1968.

The file has been prepared for HSCA

review but has not yet been

seen by the HSCA staffers.

Manuel Calvillo - OS File #282 599 on this Mexicai

citizen reflectstoperational interest in 1962

)24The file

was reviewed by HSCA staffer Lopez on 12 and 17 July 1978.

SECRET

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 063344

OS 8 1971/A

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Al Witrich (Correct name Alfonso R. Wichtrich

OS File #35 002 retlects

naturalized U.S. citizen during

log The till has been

prepared for review by the HSCA

but has not yet been

reviewed.

24

Luis Alberu Suoto - OS File #279 089 reflects!

uis Alberu Sin this. Cuban at inen

iC vas at one time of interest

The file has been prepared for review but has not yell

been reviewed by the HSCA.

this Mexico Esthen aSS File #280 142 reflects that

she was employed as a

secretary in the Cuban EmbasSy in Mexico City. The file

has been prepared for review but has not yet been reviewed

by the HSCA.

Ramon Joseph Alvarez Durant - OS File #114 926

reflects that durant, who was born in New York City,

holds Mexican and American CitizenshiD. Durant was 24,00

During

Thee of his percat, he manis security file that hé has

224,10

previously been of interest to the HSCA.

Os File H228

(True Name Alberto Rodriguez Gallego) -

126 reflects that this Cuban citizen was of

until at least

His

File does not reflect previous interest by the HSCA.0f

3.

(S) The Office of Security does not maintain a file

on

Gen. Jose Jesus Clark Flores or Noe Palomares, however, it

is known that both of these names were previously the subject

of inquiries

from the HSCA.

(U/AIUO) In

regard to the individuals in paragraph 2

on whom

the Office of Security

does maintain files, it is noted

that the information

in these

files

is generally quite dated and

would be of limited assistance in ascertaining their current

whereabouts.

BLA

for Robert W. Gambino

2 SECRET

13/100

---

## Page 3

Distribution:

Orig. & 1

- Addressee

1

-

D/Security

1

OS Registry

1

SAG

1

- HSCA Request File

1 -

Each

Subject File - 280142

OS/PSI/SAG/RMReardon :mgk

(21JUL78)

---

