# 104-10130-10375

## Page 1

104-10130-10375

REPORT OF INTERVIEN

PREVIOUS APPLICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

DATE OF INTERVIEW

6/12/55

4. INTERVIEWER

JFWinter

5.

Yes

No

6. NAME (Last name

first, in capsi

TARASOFE, Boris Dimitri

7. PERMANENT ADDRESS

16315 Bevil Way, San Leandro, Calif.

8. BUSINESS ADDRESS

9. TEMPORARY ADDRESS

16. DATE

OF

BIRTH

12. CITIZENSHIP

12/2/08

U.S.

11. PLACE OF BIRTH

EKATERINOSAV, Russia

ACQUIRED BY:

1?.

15.

Single

Married

J widowlert

FOREIGN

RELATIVES, INCLUDING WIFE (REG. 10-9)

None

16. EDUCATION

ACTIVITIES,

ISCHOOLS,

DEGREES, DATES, MAJORS, THESIS TITLE,

GRADE AVERAGE

Russian University, New York, N.I. 1921-26. General Course.

2. PLACE

Berkeleye Calli.

REFERRED BY

FR

TELEPHONE

ER 60728

TELEPHONE

TELEPHONE

_JOTHER (List Country.

Birth

Divorced

→ Naturalization (Date'

14. NO. OF DEPEND. (Excluding wife,

CLASS STANDING,

EXTRA-CURRICULAR

17. MAJOR EMPLOYNENT HISTORY EMPLOYERS, POSITIONS, DUTIES, SALARIES, REASONS FOR LEAVING)

12/45-10/51: American

12059 an all i Do dead 930 ding Maintenance man. 3265 no

8. MILITARY EXPERIENCE (BRANCI

ESERVE STATUS, CURRENT PROFICIENCY AND INTERESTI

COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES, RANK MELD

INCLUDE ALSO DRAFT, ACTIVE MILITARY OR RETIRED STATUS

USArmy. I/s. 2/11-11/15. Honorable Discharge. 20248288. Was Special Agt. 1h Germany

and was used as interpreter between US and Soviet forces for short while.

OCT* 1992 37-117

CONFIDENTIAL

(A.01)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECURITY

AFARMATIO

APEE VeNOWLEDGE IAREAS, THFE DE KRONLEDGE,

HOM ESPIRES, PRENT

Get •9

Wh II

20. LANGUAGE FACILITY IGIVE TESTS

WHEN

Language

Native

Fluency

SKILL

Fluent

but

Foreign

WARRANTS AND

Adequate

for

Translator

RATE BELOWI

Adequate

for

Research

Adequate

for

Travel

Limited

Russian

I, 5, 7,4

German

French

21.

23.

SALARY

REQUESTED

ACCEPTABLE

STATION

as 7

Washington, D.C:

Anywhere in U.S.

Overseas

22.

POOL

INTEREST

Bores

No

2res

No

•No

Yes

PREFERENCE LIMITATIONS

24. HEALTH

Good

25.

26.

Acquired By

Study and home

Residence

Study

No

FORMS GIVEN

17 PMS

15 7 App. 1

an Med.

Sec.

Agree.

L/Allf Required)

EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATION

MATURITY, MOTIVATION,

EMOTIONAL STABILITY, QUALIFICATIONS FOR INTELLIGENCE WORK, CARÉER PLANNING, OVER-ALL" IMPRESSION, PERTINENT UM-

FAVORABLE FACTORSI

PROFESSIONAI

These's nothing outstanding about Tarasoff - just an average joe trying to make

a living and without the ambition, energy, perspicalty to make use of a saleable

articles knowledge of Russian. Physically he's sort of soft, tends to be over-

weight - he'g about 5'8"tall, and about 190 in weight. His personality 18 or

the negative side, his manner dull.

Tarasoff was greatly interested in the possibility of working for the US Govern

ment. He wants that security. And he has about reached the and of the line

salary wise as a maintenance man or building superintendent.

Tarasoff 18 wi11-

ing to work in D.C. but Insists on a GS 7 because he has to support a wife and

two children. "He does not mind the sedentary aspecte of Project Detail - I

doubt 1f he'd be interested in anything that wasn't sedentary. He also likel the

the other aspects of Detail and I would think from taliding with him that he

would be quite able to handle & job on detail. He can translate - reads with

a great deal of ease. His PHS I notice indicated he's interested only in 0/8

this 18 not what he told me he 1s Interested In US also but he will go ofs 11

I reconsend IEasail for a OsY on project betall.

27.

RECOMMENDED FOR

29.

TES

/Project Data11

28.

SERIAL NUMBERS

30.

Signature of Interviewer

4/455

Date

CONFIDENTIAL

---

