# 104-10175-10071

## Page 1

104-10175-10071

23 March 1$61

VENORANDUM FCR RECORD:

SUBJECT: AMSPAS/1 Trip to Washington D.C.,

21, 22, 23 March 1961.

Reservations were made at the Carrilen House,

2500 Wisconsin Ave., FE 7-1400,

for a furnisted efficiereg -($9.50 pa- day single) for Subject beginning early

Tuesday morning.

she was "dow. to pennies""

pennest wire to a sent at can travel stee peons -

EL:? Madison Are.

Subj was contasted Tuesday AM in Pon 551,

and given a long list of suggestions

for the JMOD:3 Operation, with a request to give us detailed sketches oi as

many as she could. She was provided irith a portable typewriter and supples.

Subj had hrought along adlitional data on AREVALO aId COELUZCA, as well as other

items on her ríp to Caracas.

this material vas subsequently shown to Mr.

She a to had tapes of he entery ens with students.

an interest = AREVALO.

arta tast

The material was also stown to Chief, WH/CA, Pau: CBERST,

Subject was also provided with copies of Bohemia, Revolucion, Avance, Bore-ia Libre

and Be Mundo.

Subj is quite emphatie on the ham done to our cause by he adverse

propaganda put out by our country.

Se has maintained for some months, tat in

part CASTRO's march into the Communist camp was encouraged sy jur generai propaganda

campaign.

Her contention is that the Cubans already know there are open sewers

and garbage in the back jard, and thas our constant dunning of this fact into the

ears and eyes of the Cabars is simply rubbing salt into wounds. It 1s destructive

rather than constructive propaz inda.

By way of illustration, she laid out side by

• side Revolucion, Bohemia, a= Bohemia

Even without studing the contert of the articles,

Sce visual examles

were obvious.

trat even illiterates would get a messaze from

be human interest photog-aphy or Perclucion ard Bohemia, wile Bohemia Zore

used primaril, "mug" shots: (Judging oy the exa-pies sce snored me, she had a

Subj has been asked by William S. BABES, Law Prof at Harvard, to work bith him

aarid Horacio JODOY, Argentine law stusent at lale, on one of several projects he

is undertakirz in connection with the L.A.States. These include a proposied

tax reform plan for certain L.A. States.

She will get further details far. BARNES

when she visits Cambridge on Friday, Z March. BARNES also asked her if she would

like to work on one of his projects is Washington, D.C. for OAS - she is seing

discouraged icon accepting this position.

Sabj was advised that sirce she had teen unable to return to Cuba, the corditions

of her proposed contract vere invalid.

She was informed, however, that we were

attempting to arrive at a fair arrangement for paring her - that in the irterin

we would pay all expenses involved in her travel and activities performed at our

retront retened so a spot paymento sor approxian

received. A monthly retainer was discussed with

I approxi-sely

€50.00 a month - since she has no constant source of Incone. However, since she

2'ºIl he on a salary with BARVES, It scald appear advisable to hold this amunt

against her Niture needs.

Jean Pierson

кн/L/CI/2686

---

