# 104-10233-10021

## Page 1

1104-10233-10021]

MORE!

23 Rebuary 1062

MEMORANDUM YOR THE BTATION

BUBJECT:

Recelpta and Other Documenta Relating to Funde for

Underground in Cuba

1. Tojay Dr. Mlro's nocrotary delivered to me the roceipta

and other documents pertaining to the funds providod monthly

to the Revolutionary Coupe of the CRC for support of the

Underground. Bhe sald she had been cautonod by Dr. Alvares

DIAZ that they mat be locked up moat carefully.

2. Braniantion of these documerto reveals that the Councid

Inancial section has kept complete records of amounts turned

ovor to groups of the Council and recepts for sane; that these

recepta promise delivery in Cuba to the underground of the organi

ration, report of deliver and return funds that cannot be delivewd

(See recepta Tab A) Tab B contains photostat of recepts premented

by the MRA for the sonth of November 1961, for purchases of

equipment and would not apply to the montha cf Decomber 1981 and

January 1062 which vere firat two monthe 1a which CRC was pro-

vided directly with support funde for underground, However, the

Iast Item 10 Tab B 18 A litter 0l Ducember 1961 to RESCATE delogate

Mendez Pirez Iron Dr. Marlo dol CANAL ferrer, assiatant Secrotary

general, describing bow $3500 poros were sent to

in Escambray (after exchanging from dollars to pesos at 5.50) and

other anounts to sthers inside. Apparently they were sent to

DARIO the Becretary General O1 RESCATE, thru Dr. COSTALES

and HILDA (who received the funds), Mention 10 made of letters

of acknowledgment received and others that are expected.

TVE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2-

3. Tab C containe varioue lettera from MDC to Dr. Alvares

DIAZ, Financo Director of DRC onclosing photo coples of lettere

received from Cuba Intimating rocept of "medicines", otc. There

18 a letter to CRC attention Alvarez DIAZ fron

Indicating how and to whom lunds furnished him were delivered..

Tab D lu a report from Montocristi of the recoipte and disbursemente

effocted by that group from October 1981 thru January 16, 1902.

A. Tab i containa the reports of the 30 of November Group

and indludes receipte foo purchases made for the underground and

of tolegrans and other megaagon indicating receipts in coded

phraseology such as"ll vida el rego)ito del Nino llego completo •

Besos y abrazon, Mercedea". (My dear the present for the child

arrived complete, Hug and Kisson Mercodes.)

5. Tab I contains lottors of tradamittal and acknowledgment

0f receipt from dilferent individuals.

8. Tab & 16 8 report from Union Domocratica, Moviniento

20 de Mayd, advising how dollvery was made and also tio letters

from

as to his handling of sunde furnished him.

Tob H has

thas reporte of November,

December and Jamary.

8. Tab I containe the lebruary report from Pascasro LINERAB

Of FORDC, with phto copled of the telegram and letter received

by him acknowledging receipt.

D. Although there are not many actual acknowledgments from

wighhancuba included in this matertal, the aun total is such as

to gIVe reAsOnable assuranco Of proper unage and dollvery of the

SF20er

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• Ey

-3=

funde.

10. Copten of more achnowledgments fron within Cuba w111

be regusted in the next report from the Council.

TIP

SECHET

---

