# 104-10179-10061a

## Page 1

104-10179-10061

INPORMATIO FREPORT NEO. ATION REPORTE

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssassinatidAENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGE,

Records Colle tick At 96 9 70 tea a to or a to a 20.

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17.

as a lone on do to ato

WHY/PAL

COUNTRY

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

to Windren troa Palltloal totivity/Conflicts

Kithin the HAP

NO PAGES

RISTURNIC GI

Baciground Use Only

De Noi Reproduce

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE AÇO

Oot - Doc.

.60

« Dot = Doo 60

Finall

gau

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVAIVATEC MNPORMANCIE

U altizon, tree-lenco vilter and part this sugar braker.

sourco speato fyanies, has resided et intervalo lo cube saco youth, bas had

d.

variang vith the surer Stabllization Instituto and collecting material fos

an EDALyBiS O1 LETOLOneLtA 1A CUDA MInCO Fidol CestIOR tetary.

I bare rocently lourned that MIro Cardona has acceptod, ettoctive in earl

Jon a1, a teaching position at a valveraity in Puerto RIcO end toat he 1e

Vithirterlog, ot least for the fosesotablo future, tron all politicil activity.

Ile anti-pantro sentinents roosin as strong es iver, but ho 18 disgusted with

rue bicberlag enong toti-Cartro, Cobuce and has nado up his sind to dit on i

the BIdAlIDes SOT a t1Je. PiTO has a partIcular diBlIe fOI, distruot of;

In such too calloctivot, sarast,

end opportunet: De aleo recente unar no tere Per'a arsection cor cocauste

and tho vess.

La reccatly zad o Ling sod actinivalous dIscussion vith pay.

sbout all this acd told hin to his seco what he thousat di hiz. Mro 1a

deteratnad not to to tarred vith the brush of association vith Pay ln any

foss, vhich 10 another leportent reason for blo decialon to vitharos to

¡uarto Rico. Is dues not vast to coupronice his cun posalble palltical future

10 culos by assocheting vith the likes of Ray. Incidentally, siro bes eino

1nsa0od Antonto de Varone tuat he Vill have sothlaz surther to do vito him.

malleto bavo recently dovelopod vithin the rants or taa vii, both lasta

Cube and alsontore. Peon priuen becato the ""Ilitary chiot of tho MRA

uga jerut la sale to be the salsapring as this anti-roy sa ment

course,

ith Boruft and Pason are extremaly abltlous, shich 18 ons fact

In thats acbenes.

The other factor, do I an intormod, l0 that sany KRP

charecte are sou having second thoughts about fay and four that his cheaster,

persocality, end props vill servo lo allenate saro people, 1a tou Lon8

rus, then they will to attract soy renboro and sympatilrare.

shey 8leo seal

Let say till oventually allenato the nodersies and vill also allocato popular

and afficial US Of1a10n. Marolore; they reasOn, bay wust go and surt bo

roplaced by socatchy like razos, too, they foal, doen not bave fary'o

110b12111a8. Ease of the BItI-pay alessata 1n tha HiS bald tais position tou

REPORTE

2. 2

---

## Page 2

104-10179-10061

3.

he sais of expediency (á.e., ticy vida to vet sid or so altairona):

• others, hovever, genunnly sir: that lay 18 fariacially arta mistle

to uhat they tellere 1u. Tacse peole chus crose ila ou principio,

now that they have leasin' son alont the icialis os lis chancter and

b'a prazen. In any eveat, preca nota pericest ridiira to so alcai.

100 ally troublo, do I Miail, 18 Lint iciL.cI Mi68 :er Benur hate amy

crocial fail vin: Larice Cas.

MilO ¡treE ¿os bare a persorri

rallag there, but he evere fry tid sot itius. wou, Barguil 18 very

much intereated in Dello far=-Ochos, tho uld "cocaidante" durinz the

Castro rebellion a nire: ¿eilata, lad nou in "ali la the Dorinica

Republic. Largin seeia (ma in ory othera) tuct Deilo alast vall

as a cobenivo forco withsa the 'N, to pill toredier die "Tightzots"

(Berry and Pazon) mi die

"Jestiets" (Thy ani férce), jocause i icryone

halas him in such mira cricei.

Of course, sir oils trouble 1a that Delio

1a not currently "avatlasle"

Ono of sy Cuban DrICRis, 140 10 Vell-lOTECi in ainirs in Oricate Provinco,

has inforded De that tie

"salonce" end other there feel partes nuch the seco

nbout the late sliustion no I laie deceribal titir

Ris, the corflicts

mtaldo of cure will: die in ue 'árrorai ..ulce dais, or at lenst ere do

nirtared inside Oricate Doilaii.

С-Д÷-ІД!

TO DISTAN ITO'S

LOOTED

---

