# 104-10119-10091

## Page 1

104-10119-10091

CONHOLRHAL

•MEMORANDOM FOR THE RECORD

BUBJECT:

HUNT, Everett Howard, Jr.

#23500

18 Apr11 1963

1. On 16 April Mr. Winters discussed the case of the Subject

with the writer, In particular & Memorandum for the Record prepared

by Hunt and a Routing Slip from Mr. Famerman to Mr. Winters dated

15 April suggesting & letter to the Assistant Deputy. Director of

Plans. Hunt'& Memorandon for the Record clearly reflerted his wife

had procured some meterlal prepared by the

turned this Intelligence over to her husband who had, In turn, brought

It to W. Iloyd George, Chief, II Staff; George took the material tr

DDP for consideration.

2. The situation referred to above could clearly lead to serious

embarrassment to the Agency as It 1s apparent Mrs. Hunt is engaging 1n

Intelligence collection In the United States - without any official

sanction for such activity.

24

The writer suggested to Mr.. Winters that this entire situa

10n was one we had articipated when we wrote a letter for Col. Edwards'

signature denylng permission to Funt for his ulfe's employment by the

Mr. Winters readily recalled his own memorandum

relative to a call fron Funt seeking savice on whether or not his

wife should register under the Foreign Agents Registration Act due

to her "translation work in her home for the

(Memorandum of DD/PPS, 8 February 1963.)

4. Both Mr.. Winters and the writer were concerned that trang

mission of the letter through Tracy Bernes to Tom Karamessines might

really "stir up" all sorts of problems; it was not apparent how the

. a copy of Hurt's

tremely high levels In the DDP complex. It was decided that, before

3. letter be prepared in accord with Mr. Bannerman's instructions,

It might be well to touch base with Iloyd George for a "reading"

on whether or not it was intended Mrs. Hunt be used operationally

In her present employment position.

CONFIDENTIAL

3MRV

GROUP 1

Excided from automatie

downgrating and

declassitics: 138

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

5. On 17 April the writer secured an appointment with Mr.

George. at 4:15 PM. At the outset the writer informed the C/FI

or te ground the operate 1 the fact that ve vere, vare

_in the past, that

I November 1902 Col. Edwards had, disapproved Hunt's request to

1s wife to accept employment by El

and that

Furt had Indicated to Gene Winters his wife would take - or had

taken - the employment concerned. Mr. George was further Informed

of the element of embarrassment we saw in this situation and which

led us to disapprove Hunt's request In the f1rst place and was also

Informed that, should It be desired Mrs. Hunt be used operationally,

coordination In this regard would probably have to be effected with

6. In conmenting on the above Mr. George stated he had not

been made aware previously that the Office of Security had dis

approved any request from Hunt concerning his wife's employment

and that he considered all of the points put forward by the vriter

on behalf of the Office.of Security to be valid and well taken.

He asked that Mr. Bannerman be informed that he would now take up

this situation with Mr. Helms and Mr. Karamessines and would suggest

& meeting on the matter to Include a representative of the office

of Security In order that allfacets of the situation be fully

explored. He requested that he be given 48 hours - and then said

by the end of the week - within which to arrange matters with the

DDP and requested further that Security not send through 1ts letter

on this matter until the proposed meeting could be had. He left

the writer with the definite impression that Mrs. Hunt might well

be of operational value to the Agency in that she has progressed

in her employment to the point where she 1s writing speeches for

the

Jand could possibly insert into such speeches

many things this Agency might desire be enciated. The writer

agreed to pass this information and request to Mr. Bannerman.

T. Mr. Winters was briefed on the situation and stated he would

Inform the Deputy Illrector of Securlty of Mr. George's requests and

of the expected turn of events in this case.

8. (The writer did not Inform Mr. George of how the Office of

Security recelyed 1ts Information concerning the activities of Mrs.

Furt-referred to in the Memorandum for the Record prepared by the

subject. After Mr. George Indicated he was unaware of what Mr. Helm

had done with the paper following their discussion of Mrs. Hunt'

actlvities and, further, that he had heard from Hurt that DODE officials

seemed to be fully aware of the situation, the writer did tell Mr.

George we had learned of a memorandum for the record prepared by Mr. Hunt

31000

-2

CONFIDENTIAL

tige

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

contact t/at this point eate it Gore beas not told tater's

Hence, Mr. George was. not told that

the DODE Security Officer referred this matter to us.)

9. Under Mr. Winters' instructions the writer will hold this

case without further action until advised.

Surene Star

Inurence G. Parr

09: PSD: EAB: IGParT : rle

CONFIDENTIAL

---

