# 104-10186-10268

## Page 1

104-10186-10268

Background Use

RETURN TO CIA

Do Not Reprod

LINFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

o mienal containa informatim iletina lhe 1a81008l Drien il lie falted Jarro minto the menina dl te Raposaro CaMa TIe

sorriallon al ride in any, mander lo an sanutharind perda la prohibited by law.

SECRET

NO

FOREIGY DISSEM

coURTIr Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Guillermo JIMENEZ

DATE DISTR

CS CI-316/00700-64

28 August 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

2

CSCI-3/779,413

9 January 1964

3

1

DATE OF

INFO

1964

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. Agusut 1964 -

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. A PRAISAI OF CONTENT IS TINTATIVE.

SOURCE

former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cubar

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The. following report is one of i series containing personality

information

provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

1.

it is requested that the addressees take no action on any o.

the individunls mentioned in the

personality reports withou

first

checking with this Agency.

Guillermo JIMENEZ, pseudonym "Javier," is chief of the

Department of Information Services (SI) of the Direccion

Gereral de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

GI) and considered one of the three top people in the DGI

e resides at Calle este entre 35 y 37 Nuevo Vedado, Habana

JIMENEZ traveled to Moscow with Manuel PINEIRO sometime after

March 1964. JIMENEZ was also involved in the trial

RODRIGUEZ who was executed in Cuba on 17 April 1961,i,2 arcos

Headquarters Comments

The following information on Guillermo JIlEiEZ is information

received after the dissemination of the above referenced

report.

2.

An untested source, in a report dated 24 January 1964

sald that he first

met Guillermo JIKENEZ in the Castillo

del Principe Prison in September 1961, where source was

being held after a routine arrest in the Hotel Capri in

August 1961. JIMENEZ, allegedly, was the first person to

attempt to recrult source on behalf of the G-2. JIMENEZ

STATE

SECRET

NO FORÈIGN DISSEM

NSA

REP CINCLANT

:Maro: Fisid distriburias indicated by "4'".)

1 NAVY

CINCSO # IANS

Taux

1 OCR

TBT 2

INFORMA LION+REPORT

4

3

1

INFORMATIONIRRPORT

AH SALOBIL NE/MADR

LISta 11

RICI/RIA

ILLE

"'IE

|LX-1646

dX=22901

NO PROJECT (ANHUG/Í

CSCI-316/00700-61

L1l

RIDIAN

31BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3.

SECHET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

was a Comandante in the Rebel Army and in mid-lari? way

serving in the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

JIMENEZ. was a gond friend of Faure CHONON.

scarce doderdbedl

JIMENEZ as intelligent, well indoctrinated politically, ind

that he had attended the Untersity of labana. Source also

sald that he had heard that JIMENEZ had visited the sovlot

Union three times in 1959 and 1960. He was buru abul: 1931,

1s five feet six inches tall, 135 pounds, has black, short

curly hair, black eyes, a dark complexion and a medaum bulld.

This same source, in a report dated 28 January 196%, wald

that Guillermo JIMENEZ is a Cuban citizen resijing at

Castillo de Principe, Cuba, and a Cuban Intelligence Service

officer.

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

