# 104-10220-10306

## Page 1

104-10220-10306

STONET

13 January 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Cuban Delegation Planning to Come to Washington

At 1730 hours 12 January Mr. Barnes was given & summary

of our present information concorning subject, which consisted of the

sollowing stome: 1: The purpore 5, the Cirucieticis in

To thank Prosidont Eisenhower for the $1, 000, 000

rolléf fund made available for Cuban rofugeon.

b. To thank the Peruvian Ambassador for the break

in relationy between Peru and Cuba.

c. To try to got an audlence with the OAS in order

to influence other Latin Amorican countrion to break

rolations with Cuba.

2.

Aecording to a Bendor source (AMCLATTER-1) who taiked

with Tony Varona, Varona considora this a completoly unilateral

operation, l.e., an Autentico Party operation. It was arranged by

Tony through ne Ernesto Rolan who contacted White House officiala

Hopkina and White. Also involved are Manolo Braña, Jose Antonio

Meatre aud an MRR mati namod Jose Antonio Mendos, (AMCLATTER-!

also mentioned a (inu) Manolin Hernandez, a wealthy sugar man

connected with the Reforma Central:) AMCLATTER-1 had no

information concerning the sise of the group although catimates seem

to run from a few hundred to about a thousand.

3. Frum Mr. Jacobe we hear that Rojas is an unofficial delegate

o! AMBIDDY and lives at 6711 Clencarlyn Drive, Lake Barcroft, Falla

Church, JEfferson 2-5598.

A call to this number was answered by

Rojas' wife who said yes, he is connected with the matter of 1, 000

signatures for presentation to Eisenhower.

?...

---

## Page 2

-2=

4. Bill Kent roported from Miami that Rojae Is working with

Manuel Brana and in New York with Jose Antonio Mestre, alias Jose

Agustine Mendez.

Rojas talked to Mr. White and Mr. Hopkins of the

White House Staff in Pennsylvanla recently.

5. AMCLATTER-I also reported that Tony Varona said he was

dealing with Eduardo Gonzalez, a Rescate man in New York, who was

bringing down 300 people from New York in addition to the unspecified

number of people coming from Miami.

6. AMCLATTER-1 commented that when Rasco found out about

the proposed trip he called the MDC representative, name unknown,

In New York and told him to are that the movement was stopped since

it was not FRD-sponsored. Eduardo Gonzalez called Varona to try to

get the MDC representative to lay off, which Tony did, assuring. Rasco

that this was his own personal operation,

Mr. Stanulle suggested that Mr. Barnee should make it quite

clear in any conversationa at the White house that we seriously doubt

that at this stage Varona or anyone else can exert very much control

Ií the delegation comes to Washington. This seems obvioua since by

now not only does it acem that several groups in addition to Varona's

were initially involved in the organization of the cavalcade but otherg

may well try to get into the act.

We have been promiaed through the Bender channel more

precise Information on whon the cavalcade will arrive but given the

somewhat confusud picture one cannot count on receiving advarco

Noto: See memorandum to A/DDP/A, subfect "Jose Manuel Brana

Duran, "

:

WH/4/5A/Econ

1rh (13 Jan 1961)

Diatribution:

Original and 1 - C/WH/+/PA

1 - WH#/ Registry

= Originator

ine

---

