# 104-10006-10255

## Page 1

1104-10006-102551

SECRET

FROM: (Requegters name) O

BADGE NO.;

BRANCH

ROOM

EXTENSION

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

TO

TUBE

ROOM

DATE

INITIALS

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/INDEX

DT-5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

GT - 7

R1D/201

DW - 6

RID/MIS

GT - 61

RID/INDEX

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

SURNAR

GRAVLTESN, MIS. DoroThy

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKEL

ust

AKA, ALIASES

ASA

use

OUS

OTHER IDENT EYING DATA Occupation, 30x, CP membership,

Teaches Russian

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT

IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD

REFERENCES ATTACHED

CITIZENSHIP

RESIDENCE

U.5

TEXaS

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

I- fun only

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN

ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

Items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a)

cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

luctions, also return pertinent documents

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 or

the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

- (b) = Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (I8 any)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

Note 2.

ASSIGNEE™

YES

INO

BE

RID

DESK

Information concerning foreig

ublic personalities (except mili

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CRAVRIS, PaU

C this cord is of veilen

Blue complet

Date of birth.

Place of binet.

Pers, vita

---

