# 104-10437-10092

## Page 1

1104-70437-100921

SECRET

Thiu :

Deputy Chief, Sas

Chief, F1OB

M. D. Stevens

1l September 1967

Document Number

The OSWELD Casc

SHAW, Ciny L. 7102897- for FOlA Reviow on

1344-1056

MAR 1917

According to a Washingtoo Star clipping dat :d 2 March 1967,

Clay I. SHAiY, who was arrested, indicted and is awaiting trial in

consection with the charge that he conspired with l se Harvey OS ALD

and David i. FEARIF to assassinate f resident KLNNEDY, was doscribed

by one Jesse CORE as a political liberal who was very admiring" of

President KENNEDY. According to CURE,. SHAy talked of voting for

KENNEDY in 1980" and wore a KENNEDY for Fresident button. Jesse

CORE worked with SHAW in 1963 at the International Trade Mart in

Security indices reflect that on. Jesse R. CORE, Chief Consul

with USIS in the American Enibagay in Madras, India, in 1950, was a

friend of David Gilmore BALDWIN, (4842

breach which involved a Mrs. Lilian BAXTER of

Calcutta, India who also was known to CORE.

Nis. BAXTER who was

believed to be an American with Indian citizenship, had formerly been

married to az Anglo-Indian planter in India and as said to have become

a prostitute and in 195l to have bech kept by a wealthy Marwari.. she

was believed to be costrolled by Indian Intelligence and it was thought

that she might be an agent for any of saveral governments including

England and ilussia.

She was an associate of David Gilnore BALDWIN

and was suspected of stealing security documenta from him.

There ie insufficient information regarding Jesse CORE, Clay

SHA:V's associate, to positivaly identily him as BALD VIN's friend,

Jesse R. CORE. but it sooms quite probable that they are the same.

BALD WIN is from New Orloans and it would appear that his friend CO&&

i nioo, in as much as he ecums in all probability to be the husband of

a liEs. Jess CORE: nee: Lucy lugales, who as of 1956 was said lo be

married to a man in the State Department and to be somewhere overseas,

and as of 1957 was said to reside in New Orleans, louisiana. This

• ::.r•.e

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Mis. Jesse CORE was one of a suspect political group, Dallas County

Volunteers for RAINEY, which was of interest to the Security Office

to 1956-1957 because of the fact that current CIA employee, Michael

Charles PEARSON, 462901, and his friend, John Max ROSENFIELD,

121044,

a former 056 man,

had beer members. The organization.

which numbered about 25 persons noel of whor were said to have been

forenor students of the University of Tuxag from which Homer 'I. RAINEY,

¿ former liberal' president, had bect discharged was of aliberal/

radical persuasion. One ternber of the group (in v/bich Mira. Jesse CORE,

then Lucy RUGGLES, the daughter of lilliam AUGGLES, an editorial

writer on the Dallas Morning News, wis particularly active) is said

to have subsequently been airested by the FBI for Communist acilvitiaa

and several others have been active in Communiot organizations.

N. D. Stevens

- 2 -

---

## Page 3

13-000.00

aidi, mascal

Case /Cla Slian)

Josse Ro

Calcutta,

Indin, Who vas loom/also

to babicat

Soo cords on tallica rarek cos ivid o lAl mIN

Cone info P-ll395

n0 manio

10/126.57-

=..°

5538

David Gilmoro

worry ai

Celo: 152 to Dopo 2/0, fron chief, scho

adviced

Subjoot no boity debriefed and ooparated, and thiab

[staff e advined that oportion olcaranos on Sudoot ama

beir concollad, was toiled marices seen bench:

Ino P-11395

(See cards on Lillira BAXTER mil Jesse Re Cong).

no momo

10607/52

BAXTER, Lillian HirGo

Calcutta, India.

Believed to bo Ancilon with Indin citizenstir.

fonnorly

married to ra laglo-indian ploiter in India.

Said to havo

becone a prostitute ond in 1951 to hove boit kopt by &

woalthy MilanI. Subjoet wee kulievod to be controlled by

Indian Intelligenco Put could ka an o68at Corong or

60ДUт4L 8016 109112314

Con. Into F.)1395

med o

no idio

1i/1d/5

---

