# 104-10100-10061

## Page 1

104-10100-10061

CLASSE CO MONAS

oci

7582

- MOVE.

BOOK MESSAGE AS BELOU

27:

f1/i

1475,

BOUT I 10

B5809

PT. BAAD

YEAR LAST AFRICA BI

IMPORORN IN BLANTS. MAITIG INFO ITIRASABLE TOI

1. TURBY: THE COLLANES OF THE CORITION COVER NUBIT APPENS

TO BE COMPLETE, BUT NO POINAL ACTION WILL BE TAN JNTIL PRIME MINISTER

INDHU RETURNS FROM ABHIJOTON TILS WE END.

TIL MITHDHAWAL OF A BEDOND MINBIR OP THE COALITION, THE NEW

TURLEY PARTY, ON 11 NOT 1B VIRTUALLY CINTATO O BARUO THE COVERIDERTT

DOWN, THE OTHER THOR MUTT I TE CILTION END VOTED TO MECIDE TE

VIOLE DAY.

I/THE MEN COVERMINT PROBABLY TILL BI SITAKE A COALITION BETVERN

INONU'S REPUBLICAN PEOPLE'S PANTY ARO THE OPPOSITION JUSTICE PARTY,

OR A RATIONAL COALITION OF ALL PARTIRS. IN BITHER IVENT, IT IS

RIPORTED THAT INDIU IS LILLY TO BE REPLACEO BY BOME LENS CON-

TROVERSIAL PIGURE. / /

/ITHS ATTITUDE OF THE MILITANT ITALIS A CHITICAL BLENRIT IS

t 8 6.

SICKET

dison it 186

16345

---

## Page 2

SIFIED

UNIT•

DAIt :

TO

FROM: DiRECTOR

CONG:

INFO :

1: 4.3 69094

L1 FILE IS ES FIR NOS.

UNNE

5

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

3 то

THE PICUTIE, ALTHOUGH IN TIS MATT INITTANY ERADETS HAVE BIAN WONTILE

TO THE JUNTICK PANTY AS TRI NKLE TO THE OVUTED ARE

THY NON INTONT ULY VIEN IN EKING IT TITO THE GOVIND

IT IN ONE

ТО КФ IT WIN CLOBKE VATCH. !:

KAD OF MISSACR

Your to tell Tire

S W. FEATHERSTO

Solas The

"DORD MATING

CHOO® 9

"Т 1319460907

ACHT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cory No.

16345

---

