# 104-10125-10181

## Page 1

104-10125-10181

#2

1p

1168-

A SOURCE OF THIS BUREAU WHO MAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN

THE PAST ADVISED THAT ALEXANDER RICE, WHO IS KNOWN AS THE BAPRACiDA, :

IS ACTING AS SECURITY OFFICER FOR THE POOR PEOPLE'S CAMPAIGN. RICE

HAS INDICATED THAI AT TIMES HE CARRIES A REVOLVER. REPORTEDLY, HE HAS

ATTEMPTED TO PURCHASE SURPLUS GAS MASKS IN SUBURBAN VIRGINIA.

A SIMILAR SOURCE OF THIS BUREAU ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT JOHN LEWIS,

AND PAGE. ONF

PAGE TWO SECRET

FORMER NATIONAL CHAIRMAN OF THE STUDENT NONVIOLENT COOPDINATING

COMMITTEE A MILITANT BLASK NATIONALIST ORGANIZATION, IS CURRENTLY IN

WASHINGTON, D. CO, AND HAS BEEN WORKING VITH THE POOR PEOPLE'S

CAMPAIGN.

1FT spectales aerone polite ends reasoner.

•ANOTHER SIMILAR SOURCE OF IHIS BUREAU HAS ADVISED THAT CORETTA

KING, VIDOW OF THE LATE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JRO, IS SENSITIVE ABOUT

BEING USED BY OTHERS. SHE MAINTAINS THAT SINCE SHE IS NOT ON THE STAFF

OF THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, SHE DOES NOT. WANT

CHERS IN THAT

• ORGANIZATION- TO MAKE DECISIONS OR PLANS FOR HER OR TO:

SPEAK FOR HER. APPARENTLY MRS. KING IS IRRITATED ABOUT THE FACT THAT

A WOMEN'S MOBILIZATION IS BEING PLANNED BY THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE AND SHE HAS NOT BEEN CONSULTED ABOUT IT.

ARS. KING REPORTEDLY SOUGHT THE ADVICE OF STANLEY LEVISON, SOUTHERN

CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE ADVISOR WHO HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS A

SCRET MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, AS LATE AS NINETEEN

SIXTY-THREE, AND LEVISON SYMPATHIZED AWITH HER PROBLEM. LEVISON

REPORTEDLY ADVISED HER NOT TO GO TO JAIL AT THIS TIME AND NOT TO GO TO

EITHER POLITICAL CONVENTION THIS SUMMER BECAUSE THIS WOULD BE OVERDOING

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORDE

ON

5/5/94. 9

SECRET

20903

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

AR

---

