# 104-10074-10355

## Page 1

104-10074-10355

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING. AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRE

SURRE (Datel)

CI/SO Summary on: Contact Report with

C/CI/SO

Lot torter s

Sailding)

E.

ROber

men purbor, and

DATE

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

• INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

TROIKA - 7

EX-9816

DATE

1 March- 1972

OMMENTS (Number each comment de show from whe

te whom.

Drow a lina perous cluna after roch comma

C/SO Internal Use Only

This information is not to b

disseminated outside CI/SO

without prior approval of

Chief, Special Operations

Group, CI Staff.

Originated by:w. E. Gavaghe

TYPED by

FE/OPS

Based on:

Doc:

Date:

Filed:

SOURCE:

02

Cryptonym I TROIKA-7

Field Station

ACTION:

0868?

DISTRIBUTION:

X/EX NUMERICAL FILE (recor

.02

/ Subject file

TROTKA -

I/ Other:

INDEXING:

Ke bypass...

date 15/3/2

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SOET

cilso

•EX-9816

1 March 1972

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

i Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

02

Contact Report of Meetings with

TROIKA-Z in

New York City on 14 February and in Virginia on

17-18 February 1972

This memorandum covers recent meetings with

C TROIKA-T in New York City and in the Northern Virginia

The meetings were held under secure conditions and

there were no security incidents noted.

2. Operational:

a. United States - China Friendship Association

(USCFA) Study Group: a Y's persistent efforts to locate

and join a pro-mao study group finally paid off o-the manager

of the China Bookstore finally broke down under 77's

campaign and put her in touch with a local USCFA study

oroup under the leadership of Mass Susan Narren. aka Frank.

J7 has attended one session and, based on her initial

observation, provided the assessment.of MrS. Warren attached

nereto at the undersigned's request..r

7 believes she has

hit it off with Mrs. Warren because of her understanding

of dialectics (thanks to Andy Ness's tutoring) and, consequently,

she was instructed to attempt to develop a social-business

relationship with herg With respect to the other members

of the study group, claims that the situation,

to date,

has not been conducive to ferreting out the identities of

these individuals, but that she hopes that as the group

continues to meet,

some rapport will be established with her

classnates.

b. New School and language instruction:

7

has formally enrolled at the Graduate Faculty of the New

School for Social Research in a course entitled "Comparative

Legal Systems," which studies the theories, institutions,

concepts, customs and which purports to analyze and compare

the law and the administration of law in selected countries,

included thing, Japan, Vietnam, Germany, the U.S: and the

soviet Union.

17 will also enroll in a French language

instruction course in the near future.

08687

---

## Page 3

14-00000

C.

Ramparts' Tours - New York Media Workshop's

Womens! Tour:

Acting on a suggestion proposed by Mr. Jason

Horn, Cl/so,

the undersigned raised the subject of the Women's

Your which is scheduled to visit London, Paris (where they

will meet the DRV peace delegation) and Rome from 27 May

25 June 1972 with

7 and instructed her to attempt to determine.

the interest in,

and likely composition of, the New York

group and explore the possibility of joining such a group

and explore the possibility of joining such a group.o%'s

first reaction tothe tour was that the cost ($699, which

price includes airfare, trains, hotels, etc.) was

too high.

It was explained to her that the cost factor should not

deter her from following through. It was then that?

voiced some concern that the timing of the tour mayzinterfere

with her own PCS departure (we had been talking in terms of

mid-May or June 1972 up to this point).

It was made clear

to her that no fixed date has been established as yet for

her PCS departure and that the aforementioned tour may well

prove to be.of operational interest, e.g. meeting the DRV

delegation and continuing the staging process prior to her

actual departure.

7 said that she understood and would

look into the matter.

She did not believe she would have

any difficulty in covering for funds should she find herself

included on the tour.

d. South Fast Asia Reports (SEAR) :

7 produced

a copy of the first issue of SEAR, a bi-weekly newsletter

put out by the New York University Students Mobilization

N.Y.C. 1000302

•7 1S

566. LaGuardia Place,

Jof this mimeographed new

left publication.

A copy of this first issue is attached

hereto. : One of,

7's articles will appear in a subsequent

issue of SEAR. 02

e.

JBMINIMUM Testing and Training: As

Jo's covert training and assessment in anticipation other

foreign assignment, the undersigned arranged for two members

of the Psychological Assessment Branch, TSD (Messrs. DeMarco.

and Saunders, to administer a JBMINIMUM test to her and to

brief her in the use

and value of the JBMINIMUM test in a

field situation.

This training and briefing took place or

18 February in a safehouse in

of the JBMINIMUM assessment of le Arlington, Va.

A copy

I will be made a matter of

record in her official dossier) Dz

a was introduced as

"Miss Julie" to members of the PAB/TSD for purpose of this

test and briefing.

Mr. Andy Ness devoted the afternoon of

18 February with

77

for the purpose of continuing her training

2

cy 0тs, 50

---

## Page 4

14-00000

672759

in dialectics, which she has found to be particularly useful

in understanding the study group discussion and to permit

her participation.)

2. Administrative:

Salary and Operational Advances.

The undersigned

paid 7 her January salary on a $500 advance

on 17 February

1972.

She also received a $300 advance on 14 February 1972.

These advances were necessary because of the expenses l

had incurred in enrolling at the New School and to pay for

her French lessons.

(One of the reasons. 7 was brought down

to the Washington area was to straighten out a problem

she was having with her accounting. Hopefully, she is now

convinced that she had been receiving all that was due her.)

020.

•Tax Administration and Notification of Personnel

I was notified of the change in the tax assessment

act of the adjustments in her salary due to the legislative

pay increase and the withholding of premiums for hospitaliza-

tion.:

3.

Actions to be taken.

I's assignment abroad. Oper the undersigned's

discuston, to lent a lient ation

a telepouch

Station proposing 7's

assignment

primarily for housekeeping purposes,

but with a

regional mission to perform. (The undersigned

is presently working on this message.)

Concelament device.

7 requested a conceal-

ment device for her microdot viewer which the undersigned will

attempt to obtain from TSD. Additionally, the undersigned

will request TSD to provide. concealment devices forl

7's

general use as a storage for papers and funds.

02

William E. Gavaghen

FE/OPS

Attachments

• As stated

3

08687

---

