# 104-10320-10124

## Page 1

104-10320-10124

2000

06679-07490

14 tug 79

OLC 79-2477

10 August 1979

MEHORANDUM FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

Mr. George Frates

AC/Records Management Division

ISS/SDA

Kodger

S. Gabrielson

Office of Legislative Counsel

: VISCA Records

During the course of the HSCA investigations, much classified

information was assembled

in response to HSCA requests.

Three Categories

of, information must now be disposed of under terms of the HSCA/DGI

Memorandum of Understanding.

Category la: Classified material from Agency

holdings,

requested by the HSCA, which HSCA

staff

members

reviewed.

Category .1b:

Classified material from Agency

holdings. requested by the HSCA, but which HSCA

staff members did not review.

Category 2:

Material generated by

the NSCA from

Agency classified holdings made available to. the

HSCA in response to the latter's request.

This HSCA material. is considered by

the HSCA as its

property

and, therefore, not releasable to the

public under the Freedon of Information Act.

An

inventory

of this material received from HSCA has

been completed.)

Category 3: Classified correspondence and certain

unclassified correspondence exchanged between this

Agency and the HSCA.

2.

The HSCA has indicated its desire chat copies of these

three

categories of material be held in sealed and segregated storage

ensure

the preservation of all relevant records pertaining to

the

phase

of

the investigation

involving this Agency.

In

order. to accom

nodate the HSCA, but also leave our own records

accessible for routine

purposes, a photographic copy should be made of each official Agency

document

made available in response to a specific request by the scA

(Category la and 1b).

44-1

---

## Page 2

13-00000

3. Upon completion of

the task of photographing the Category la

and lb documents,

those photographic copies

(Category 1), the HSCA-

generated materials based upon Agency material (Cateyory 2), and the

designated Agency-HSCA correspondence (Category 3),

will be sealed and

held in segregated storage by

the acency, in accordance sith schedules

established by the Archivist of the United States.

4.

Documents

are now in the individual

custodies of icembers of

the Agency HSCA Task Force.

These individuals' are listed by attachment.

5. Please advise on your recemmended procedures for photographing

these documents and procedures for entering these

copies into sealed

storage.

151

Rodger S. Gabrielson

Attachment

Distribution:

Original - Addressee

1 - OLC Record

OLC Chrono

= D. Haudefschedt, 0/Personnel

- J. Sullivan, 0/Security

- D. Rininger, 0G6

• B. Sturbitz.

DDO/LA

DDO/CT

J. Fox, DDO/SE

-H.

Clark, SA/DDS&T

1 - D. Touhey, SA/DDCI

2

1141-3.

---

## Page 3

3.00000

HSCA Task Force Members

Dorrif Haudefschedt, Office of Personnel

Jack. Sullivan, Office of Security

Dick

Rininger, OGC

Bill Sturbitts, DDO/LA Division

DDO/CI Staff

• Julian Fox, DDO/SE Division

Hal Clark, SA/DOS&T

Dolores Tuohey, SA/DOCI

Russ Holmes, 816 Ames Bldg.

414-4

---

