# 104-10519-10227

## Page 1

104-10519-10227

50л $ a 0504

SECRET

P49 N0.

PERSONAL RECORD QUFSTIONMAIRE

PART I1 - OFERATIONAL INFORMATION

.G-92065-

DISPAT

INSPRUETTOYS TU LATE OFFIERE

S0D00+N8 UNIO

nol 88e

222526

document De

banter line, ll poderble) god 80088) en8.

Fo&t

AMPALM/ 5

SECTION •8

CONTACT AND DEVELOPHCAT

INDICATE NOW.

WEEPT. WAS. AND Or BROS SUBREY

PIRAT CONTAGICO ON DEVELOPIO.

Subject Independently founded a Christian political movement in Cuba in opposition

to tho Castro regime.

In April 1960. he flod Cubs,

His organieation van alroady

In contact with CIA and he was placed in contact with Wallace A. PARLETT.

agreed to cooperate with private Americans who would agalat a Cuban liberation

moremont.

ANG THRA DUDDICE COULD DE TUNNES DUES QUICKLY

AND IN A STRUMS WANNEN IN ALI

Suhjoct could be turned over to any CO mowledgable

of Cuban and Carthbean political nuances, if introduced by Wallace A gAHLElT or

Parence 3, CHABANAC. Ho could be contacted using 3tato cover with outopr 1or

introluction.

THAT OTHER CASE DOTTERS MU HAVE CARP SOMES DO BICONE KHONE CAMARI

BEEN AYOAN.

No others

MI1LIE THEY MAYE

T9s 1050a use extrous cordlers

SECRET

14-231

---

## Page 2

SECTION

SECRET

MOTIVATION AND CATALE

ons sers ou

subject 18 in political opposition to the curent Cuban rogino, 1f he relurned

to his native country he mould be imprinced or erecuted, ho 1a overtly known as

an enemy of the Castro regime. He has an estahlished record as an anti-Cormnisty

his personal and political future has been committed to an anti-cormniot, anti-caotro

position.

INDICATE

AMAr CONTROL, In Me, SALBIS OVER THE SUBIET, ¿86 no inneiel, or dl 1901

The control factor 1o a realization by subject that his present sponnore offer the

only chance he has of returning to Cuba.

ЗЕСТОРИ 100

COVER

COVER MERO, 9U BUDDIES ANT CASE DIFICER iN THEIR MEETIÀGS.

Subject 1e in offiolal of an overt organization nith headquartere in in American

citys contact with the co varies and Includea the use of safe house facilities.

2. CEVER USTO DY SHEDECE DO OBTASGIRG HIS INPONMATINR AND TA CONTAÇTING HIS IMPORMANIS.

Suoject 18 an overt official of an overt orgenieation and obtaina Information ios tho

purposes of that organization.

TEDICATE SERVICE ERA PHICH SERIES PRIMRS NE GOUTE BURNY (TO GORDING)

Subject probably assaner that ho 1s working for ClA, but thie has never been aditted

as it would be counter to existing U.s, polley.

SECTION IY

INTELLIGENCE COMMECTIOMS ANO TRAIMING

EARLAIN

GO DICET•S

INOWN PAST TO PRESENT CONNECTIC DIME ANY ORCE PARIS TRACE SERVICES MADICATE THE EXITED

CONNICTION IN ANOMA DURASIA,

Hone

LAST GIUCA IADIVIDUALS (ADAIS

POOCHINE, DUO MADE DO STALECE•S PRESERO TATELLTCORDE ACTIVITITA.

Subjects activitina are not of an intelligence naturo.

Subject, knows that he 1a a nember of the front orgeniration.

Every one who know's of

1, EADLAIN ANT TRAININO SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OFFRATIONS.

Hone

SECTION Y

COLLABOPATION POTENTIAL

TORTION PORTO REBREÇT COULD DE MOST LURELY TO COLLARIADE DITN BEERUSE DO MIS CORDEDES DE PEST

Subject,

as a. Cuban, would collaborate with a rightist or centrist Cuban governaent.

He might collaborate with other Latin American governinte

of like corposition.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

•SECTION WI

OPERATIONAL

USE

*CONTACT

18'5+9-858 MA9 BIAN ISTO DE CORTRETOD DIRONI, INDICA

MATICH ME HAS PUDGISHED

N.A.

10*8 00

INDICATA NOÓ AND PACE MION DUBLICA DOTAINS IMPONMATION.

CIA; he furnishos data.

fact is kno to other offioiale of the organization.

INDICATE HAS MAD REIA IOLD

BUBJREE AS

TO THE DIBPOSITION DE

INPOAMATION HE FURNISNES.

subject has bown told that the data he furnishes 18 uned by the private American.

group that apondore AKIRON actlvltles..

DETAIA SUBDECT: A PROPOSED PE OR CI

TYPE USE On DUTIES.

Nodlo

O. DETAIL SUNGT•D PROPOSTO ADIPM TYPE USE DA DUTIES.

Subject is an official of a front group apornored by CIA.

His dutles are to conduct

his day-today activitles in such a manner as to further the efforts of the front.

SECTION VIS

PROPOSEI

OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

HYPE ERNIAGI ER DPIRALICUAL USLI

A. THERE FIXINCO DS AN DAFICIA MALMDEN OF A

Nod.

B. BUSRE SURVECT IS A DEFICIAL MEMBER DE

AN

OBYONE AGENCY:

Had.

SECTION VIN :

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

ACENCY

TO SUNCH HELATIGASHIR MUM SUBSECT, I.E.

RAINEE, -OPPUSITE MUMDEA, RIMUMERATIES, IT ANTI AGENCY

Subjoet is an adminiatrator of a front group sponsored by CIA. He la not paid

directly by CIA.

lie knows Terence S. CRABANAC (P) under ellas.

SECRET

—......?

---

## Page 4

SECRET

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

SECTION IX

SHEELA, 80.0 . RA..

PON UTMEN

OPERATIONA.

Subject may have political influence in a rubsequent Cuban government.

SECTION A

CUNNI THENTS

4,9

DO POOPOSED TO PAY QUOIECT I NEGULAO SALAOT..

INDICATI

OPEN METICO, SPECIE

AND GINA

DETAILS.

Wedder ANOURT.

PAYMIN? TO SE MADE IN ENCHANGE

Natio

No caud tmonto nade.

SECTION

INDICATE

THE PIELD

Havana station files, NDI.

AND FIRLD MILES

CE AND SECURITI

4 1 TAE 184011,09

AND THE MESULTS.

SNOBCATR

AY PIOGRAPHICAL

INDORMATID QUANISHLO BY. SUOJECT.

None

10608C ATR

#HIINED

TBT D2OU1SINNAL

PROVAL

NON 9092268-5198 405

BELY PZENIOUSLY

POA

1OA6 138

OPERATIOYAL

*APROVAL DOTAINLO

24 March 1960

EVALUAYA DUBICO'S CNAMAC.TER.

¿ITY AND SECUMITO, CITING ANIDENCE MIERE POSSIBLE.

Subjectis character seems consistent with his background.

_No evidence has been

forthcoming to indicate security flaws or lack of reliability.

6. EXPLAIN

898 91T8ATIG

GO ANDISCAATIDR IN PHICH SUBJECT MAY MAVE

OCRY INVOIVED GHICH MUST ON CHALUATED FROM A

CFISPERATIONAL BEGUNITY GIENFOLER.

Hone

SECTION ХІД

•?.

None known.

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MADITS

SECRET

---

## Page 5

4-00009

SECTIC AILI

MCDт

SECRET

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

spanis.

Nano known.

ЗЕСТІОМ ХІМ .

INDICATE

SUBJECT'S LANGUAGA

DO A COUNTRY ON REGION OTHER THAN

GONERAL

¿APER DUMER CHADACTERISTICS, ARE SUEM AS ME

No

ganse deek

CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER

Research

OTHER

THAN

ROUTINE ACTION IS RIGUIRED, SO AND WHEN TIRNIRATION OF

SURGICT-IS EFFECTED, PIRASE EIFLAIR.

N.A.

SECTION XY

EMERSEATI CONDITIONS RECONTACT APRANCEMINTS

GIA FULL DEPAILS DIE. RECOGAITIDE SICAB, 8, 1/EI

AHERE COULD COOTACT DE MADL:

MAXING CONTACT USED

N.A.

SECTION KVI

MISCEL ARIDIS OPERATICHAL CATA ANO REMARAS

None

DATE

2 February 1961

SICHATURE OF APPRDONIATY INIOR DEFICEO

SECRET

(Also

---

