# 104-10162-10176

## Page 1

104-10162-10176

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

• Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

-

SECREt

& Chief, Security Sapport Divialon

10

Dates 22 DecenDer 1559

ATL

PROS 8 Interroration Research Divisdon

USJECT: S.F.$ 210838

X10A 38538

IDEN TREATHE DATA

ojoet de this rejeert 18 a 8inple trenty-cise jeer-old Cuba

efector fron Fiel ChiJd's revolutionary orraniation. Subject'

true sane is first lestinat

Susject was

born 28 January 1:32 in Koron, Cazailey, Cuba. In Hoverber 1958 Sub-

ject becase dislifected with CAS iw's coverent ani went into hiding

In Cuba.

Erentialig throust a clandestize las. controlled pierator in

cia ta target to contesteddy rig atation sa barona, Sariect had

plaanod to pablisa a lotter attacing Clüs) publiciy but the seation

persuaded Subjes, to postione pulishing tila letter until he ras ex-

siltrated to the Unitad Stares.

The plan vas to send Subject to

Mexico where his letter voild be published so that the rited Siates

could not be heli responsiale for the action. It was plared to use

Subject in this one iP etfort vithout aty other emplojaent oi suject.

PROCLAIRE

1. philip mast it, contacted the exariner through IRD laison.

A conference was artented on 17 Deceper betacen the exatiner, todat,

Chef fiFi, Cbies, Covert Operatiors/irD, axi a representative of SaD/5.

I-ming thie conference it sas establisbed that the polypraph intertien

of Sabject must se accomlished by 1S Dececioes slice Sunject jas to

leave tor merica by the l8th or at the latest itth of Decuber. Su

ject had just come out of biding, on the loth of Lecerber and speed

tas necessary is prevent contectin; the United States with Saoject's

Case.

The Offica ol Seculty had no inioration in its files on

Subject and wii bad only sparse inforuation contained sustl. in caoles.

Subject, reportoal: apsice arl: Spanish and an interpreter las ostained.

As It developai, noverer, Sabject's In;lish was -ood enough ior the .

Intertion with an occasicral reference to ths interpreter.

2. The examiner ani tre interproter arran-ed passase to Mlard

where Subject was located and arrived there lee evening of 17 Decenber.

lio coriact with Suoject vas passiole until the aternoon of 13 Decenses.

Subject was interro alad ani poli raphed on lô jecener fron 1330 to

1430 at which tine an latcralasion vas secessar; for suujoct lo in

quire asout his saican tira.

Interviewin; was resumad at 1:30 as

ended at 1800 155 dinser, The intorilon vas iccarmenced at 2230 an

sas coploted a: 2230.

3. It Nas secessary to debriel Subjeot dince thera Has littio

as no Intorzation diailalo.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Cnly

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

---

## Page 2

104-10162-10176

SECRET

IDA 33636

22 LACEEDEr 1959

ho DIrLA- USE CoOPeTeLDO thO di] jefITO lt kad beRa direed to

restrict the palritan isizes to tina follosings

To establisà sais ject's bar, flées.

Do To establiah Liar Sobject scrially sas present at :

siere ooteland.

Co

That sive letter to ba published by subject vas

copular and an accurate ploture of tüe meetini, and

1h0 parpose 2i " icia las I0: a prOvocaiIa to

epartass ise it-led States.

do

That Sanjeet tea ant an ziest al Chiselas ubose

I 881o0 Has to uncTier claxicatina astes si tho

Pini toot 540999.

NE PESULTS DE CATEG

L'isjecto

201. Is J05 baptissal Dosa-

In CLERdEStINO DUrE? ATSAICIE 10.

09

20d..

Mere you a sember of harapacion Gatolica taivers: tE-Lo?

Antaert

los.

205.

tere you a sender of the revalution slose Detober

19598 NeSter: IeS. 08

106.

biore you the (sucood chiar as zone 22] as paper?

08

2060.

20%

Were Joe a clasa soqualatenco of CAS NO"a?

ANASTE

SEERLi

5/g0

---

## Page 3

104-10162-10176

IDA 38636

22 December 1959

208.

Are you hidlay anything tron us of peril to

the United Stares? Answers

Fo.

Did angore besides (Father Ascarado (/LED)

balp you writo lie letter? Answers to.

202.

Did DRA have a seet'az la the aiddlo of October?

08

204. Here you present at the nooting? haswers [Tes.]

2ola.

bers you present at the second meeting of INRA?

205.

Does the litter genarally report what occurred

as the seatinz? Answers los.

205a, Is everythinz contained in tha latter the truta?

Insters I8s.

301. Did GAS TO look whea you leit Subal Ansters Ha.

302.

Did CISTRO give you any halp to leave Caba?

Answers to.

J0so ire jüü in datan angure 1s the lited Sistes

or Mexico for CASZR0Z ANSABIS

8o.

3OLo Are you on a secret sission for G'SIRO?

io.

305. Is the lotter designed to abarrass the valtod

Statos?

Arsuers

з0в.

Eard you deft is a cat other reasonie?

307. Did you leate Gaba because of any kind of troable?

Answers to.

Durine the poltzraph testlaz atronz poly grapa evidence vas obtrinad

to aupport Subjoct's contentions of fact parely!

lia Sooject's bora fidos

20 Toat DIRA had a moatinz around the nidalo of Octobar.

3. That Subjoct was prosent at the noetles.

8/80

---

## Page 4

104-10162-10176

-SECRET

IRD$ 38636

22 Doceaber 1959

That Susjact wrote the coatent of the lettor hirself

and thai it is enerally accuraio in reportin

tha

TaRA szetine.

5.

That Subject 1s sot an avest of CASMOrs but, rather,

ho is a Dona ilde defector.

The exaziner bellevas that Suajoct was truthíul 1í, the abora

OPIPATIONAL INTOPMATION

1o The followine intorsation was obtainad fron Suojoct both

during pre polygraph and postpoly raph discussions.

It roprescrite

he devriofit: d Calec: which vas necessary in orier to costuct

Lateligas turnor"

1=5.

C.n soct rave his placo and diato of

birta tho sure as contaired in his record. In discions is edit

life, Subject relatod this ria fathar had esi,rated to Cuba fron

Spain when he sas 15 yours of aya. Suoject's fairer cana sron the

northern part of Spain iron a place called Manzasera Subject

sistod that his sother and sather are noi residia? in Canaruey: Ho

sentioned that his father had fajored the Spanish Ecublic when the

ravolutionary difficulties occurred in Spain. Is a resuli Sisject

stated that his asher joined to carunist Party for a period ot

The Partr attiscted his father recausa to vant

so to helo the Spanisa Repulic and tas active 2a inni paiû of te

Party knich aldod the Scarish Republicans.

Arocat 1939 the Party

Lanied to scod subject's lather to Russa for raining and also wantod

nin to infurs m tia triards.

sinject stated that his father refused

to ect as as informant and vas then puolicly throm out of lise dartj.

Subjoct related ta: this las publicly recordad in tie Connunist

arapaper Hay. Subject ralated bou hio father thea vocaso violently

antl-Countat and raisod Subject with this prejudico.

2.

Subject sentloned that his father has twenty caballeros of

Lead unich ha balices will nos de confiscatad because of his do-

rectlon. Subjaci was an saly child and educated in che locai publio

school in Canazuey anl vent to Jaldor Hich School where ho was under

the Lilluenca of Fatrior Marine Pares FURAN (iR/IRD), 5. Jo, and 10

1949 enterad tho univursisy of Harana to atity rodicino.

sibject was

president of ina Catholle Action uroups and uhan CASTRO began his

carolutionary activilles, Subject voionçol lo anotier revolitionary

soup plottin; against sATIsTA. Thou;a CAsino's sroup continuad its

activitios unila other Joups voro sion to act, Suject still did not

Join CAi DiD's ETOap sinco there vero appararily so sary Comualato in

1t.

Hoverer, a close friend of Suoject'a, pause Arnando LifElIS

(iR/LIO), Sodo, vent to visit Pidel CiR) uho vas hiding so the

---

## Page 5

104-10162-10176

SEGRET

INDE 38636

22 Decono or 1959

StarTA Maestra Mountains. When LoRNT. returned, he advisod Saject

to join GASIO sa ina tha: 1t was obilous CASiO's Toup vas Laiiltrated

with Corunists but it did not son thai CAiit, Kissell vas Cosunist.

Therafore it souli be wise for anti-comunists like Sasject and hia

soup to join Croilo to counteract the influonce of the Connists:

Accordingly Suoject went into the rountains in October 1958 ubers he

was accepted by casia.

Saoject served as a judge advocato recoral'a

alse and engagod in three oatilos. After the fi hting was ovur and

tha revolution was successful, many of the Communists stajod in the

montains to organize tho farnors. loting this Subject requestos to

.:., in the nountains as an organizer of the farmerg in order to

crat the Corunist influence on tie faraary, Subject here organized

1... Commandos Ruralas, a Catholic Action Group, "anzantlla vas the

center of the Corandos Rurales work. Tie groups vere quite sucessful

and stirred up considerabla opposition fron the Cozunists. For example

on May Day last Hay the Mayor of Manzanilla asked Subject to bring

- 19 949 May 101 Dado,

Camandos Rurales With baners of anti-Comunist slogans resul:lia in

a cablo to Baoul CASTRO accusinE Suogret of revisionisa.

Consequently

tbe chief of the Comunist Party o1 neighboring Mafo came to

Hanzanilla to voric with the jarmers and to oppose Subject's croups.

Subject stased that there are 240 Catiulic Action Droups rangia: iTor

60 to 200 persons per group all ui who Subject claias are lojal to

bir and anti-cornists, suojoct clains to se a chief of the catholic

Actior Resolationary Grasp with any clandestine activitios and

persornel 1'rolrad. Subject becano a senser al the proup in Lug.

3.

after the fighting of tie rarolation was over, Subject began

to work in IliPA. Suiject stacod that the A Tarian Reform dot vas to

be signod publicly is the plaza in Hansanilla in the sountains.

Sub-

ject's chief, General Jorge MAKIN (IR/IRD), Has disenchanted with the

Comunists in CluNd's aray and was this setired.

At the paolic

81 grinz, of the Ararian Refora Act, thoreioro, Subject was present

with his Comandos Rurales lestead of MARIY.

CASIAO inspectod da

Carmandos Rurales and assed to speai with Subjict as their cornander.

Subject recalled this ha-pened in sue of July of this year. diter

a short talk, CASIR) Invited Subject to Havana to speak sore siost

the Casandos Rurales whien he did eight days later.

At this meeting

CAS RO askod Sojact 1f he would like a position in INA. Subject

agrood. It must so recalled that at this tine Sibject thou-ht Fidal

CAST.O readed the help of non-Cocmunist rebels to Miht azainst ine

Comunists, Subject siatod that ha foual out his error later. Because

Subject vanted to presurve the freodoe of the tarners and to seep dosa

tha Communiato influence, he accepted CASRO's offar and esplained to

CASIRO what his plans vero for establishing a coopera:ive in bion the

farmer would on lis oun land, susjoc: stated that CASiRO ascot his

how much soney ha neoded lu begin anl whea Subject said $60,000, cAstRo

SEGNL

---

## Page 6

104-10162-10176

• •

SECRET

Tug 30535

22 DACERDer 1:59

payo his a check for tha: ssoant. Subject sisted that he speut the

maney Ior seed and farz aviazis.

Caos vas divided Into sir prozinces

and 25 zona3 vero carvel dit os these pro:incas. "iiliJ) (full asso

pitea o] Subject out forgorica by tha eiaxiner) al flist was saio

chíel ai sono 22 and jujeci servei as tis aide. tua sonira later

VALLÜJO (1/i2) secase chiai o! Jrierto Fraulace and suoject Decane

actual chief of zone 22 ani vas so cordidered os eteryone.

HoNevEr

1n tbe record jujuct vas stili che aice lo villids who noninallo

held tuo titlis, chiar of irienta pro:-oca and chief of zone 22.

Subject sellerod the reason for sinis bay la: fidal did not vast

susject to ba listed as artual chief of zona 22 secaisa juojeci bad

a histary of Bali-Concunisa ini in soco 22 inere Comunists vera

atroaz this sight cause umest. Suoject recailei ¿hat he was saio

aido to JAulio) 1a septasser.

Intoi coin Tling told Suojoc: tbat

J1 Ned bord e maptidio

inuid) had al'erded the lirst neoting aod

hai reported so Sabjeci sie di lio this i vauu idi ouis

regerding hate casaigno ajuiust the United states and Comunist

infiltration. sauject, on sse ai inese occasions, astod iliais

sben the crogs vali se divived asoag the farsars sisce thei vena

aBsinz about: us and iliiiii told Susject to delaz che request of

tbe Largers in tris regará.

vanand cold suaject he had assed

aiTa to prosta suuject tu captaia sud although Giulio scanso

feriradly disposed nothide taprenad as a result.

In the aiddle of scroser unca tire decuid scottai ai Bri

sas beld VALlino tos surject alongo

Süoject recalled that che

neotirE vas tuo days. in lenith, on a Saturday ani Sunday to tha sest

of his recollection. Suaject is not sura o: che dates out delieres

1t. lias sorbeNDere in the cidile di tie souillo Juujeci soneraied all

of the peopla viso vore present, anl che parapas le listed vere che

sase as ticose he had written do arrlier for the station. sasject

rocalled thai al the meetiri there vere tros Chilean Conuunists

uhase aanes he doss not lasi. suojeci recalled speailas to ose of

than casually out coild not sven racall a first sesa.

So Subject recalled also thai a seuspaper photorrapher sron a

magazine published la Cusa ("'Agricultino" he bellores is

trid sare)

tou a photoiraph of Suoject, l'inado, ana soveral otter zono crlaro

of arienco province. jusjoct sia:od vai the photographos toax tro

nases. Of the persons phota raphod and laulcatodi se tha photortapa

Hold so published in this zajasina. Jusject statod thai nouspapara

fally covered tho sootini sud tre nasos oi all the persons present

Inclading nia on vero listed ani ase part oi tho public record.

Susjoct astiasied thai arout one huntred persons vere presani at the

mediato juaject also siated that no deuspapor son nere allorod into

the nostlag except durlii a recasa on tha secoud alternoon kben a

press releaia vas ¿iran lo a rapater ros tha levolucian.

tho recoos the heroluclan rauertor nas disalesed dal tha business

resrusad.

SECH;

---

## Page 7

104-10162-10176

SECRET

Irs$ 38636

22 DanesDer 1959

do Subjoct siatod iha: at tha ilne of the ecetiny ho vas tbe

o Becond chief 13 8:1 ta 20 JOnOS Of INFA. Houster, 20s Capral

PREsid (17/1RD) 13 Don a second chief of one of the zones.

7o Subjoet ented that darin: the too day poetin, he spoke

tas or thres tines durin: raich he asked üüiny bou zuch land sact

Sanger could out, duria: luca be sold chi) caterolilar sractara

Mere sost, and racio a corsad: cous tha sigoliahnent as peopluel

stons in le countryside. Sasjoct sia'at ta: illula arsvared

CA FO's questiona dout the aS altaii VALiaNO occasionally

consulted with Sanject abdit sa answer..

sus ject statod tha: he

spoist at the dad o: the socoad day with (li t) very briotly in the

casasy. of fire as sir otists.

siind di livian's nor eren

a sona than the soot casadi of accinintensos.

° Supert s'aiod tha: after the seediar, he rationed to sosa

22 ani continuat tis vorte

Swgict stied that around tiris t la ba

Dear is stras-thea hie Canados Rurales a plan a renolutimony

ac: a alast CuS). Upon the arest ai panent 111:05 (L:/PD), tbe

faTrisTis: Party in llandanilla baran io sar "hat Subjeci sould se

arrested nette ilidudo at tis ilse s'alioned tho castiats to sort

dEsalso bLa Connios RuTalES. Suajoct ste $20 aploce of his ona

DOEET i0 the Coredadas liurales and tull isas to so to laraca asd

sizi: orders. sisject toli iilid his scher sas sics and wanted

ho vold be arrested shortly liba laís.

10. Susfect siatod tha! while he was sot in any cunopiracy with

Muito be was a close friend and had asted bin throe times to join

ba reTOlutIoney stoup MithorE assent dy taios.

Ila Sabgeti then vaut io lavana ulars he spoke clandestinely

tich the Carrantos Rurales and his univorally priends.

the first

plan sas io sosis political asylua logother at the sase tiso at an

cabassy dad shea la o abroad pron there. sonores, after opalola,

vith the Spanish arassaior sajact docidal that ho could not otrin

safe conduct since ho sas a secuer of the eray and was no: el1-1510

for lie sala clodicia l siish illip was ¿hree veals lato and arferod

no quick tili ma Cuba, ünen sard resched Surf. ct that the lo seristy

1a Marcanilla dad roportod his as a darector, suojoct callod VALiao

and asical for a laure extonsion sinca lis no cher was still 111, men

Sireject took rafare with four atlands in a javult houss in Sto

StaRlaLan NOrIElate. HIth Subject Has Nodorto de luisiA (is/11)

uno ses jibject's chias of tre cocandas tralos, sroa the jesult

Horillato they teas clandestinely to a capuchin cirnca arero Ubey

SECRET

---

## Page 8

104-10162-10176

-..

SECRET

IND: 29636

22 Decesser 1959

posod as priests, One of the Capuchin prlests took Subject to a fororgu

priest sho put Subject in contact with our sta:ton persoacol. Suaject

vas kept by station personnel In a safe house for a sonth aitor stuca

Subject was exfiltraled on a ship controlled oy our siation perenazi.

Z2a Subject staiod that ho has a san la the Cuban fo2 who reportod

that sabil CAS RO ves on Subject's trail and imitRatil had asked ine

police to choci all evassies for she whereauts of s'eject.

Suject'a

photograph vas iiren to tha police si i-2.

Sarject sta-ai chat bla

friend, Roperto de jARMA, on the 17th of DecenDer had telephoned

threa friends in Haal uno bad asked for subject's uboreaboute.

shen

told by VAROilA that Soject was in another country, tha three friendo

said tha: Pather D'iN-ali (1n/22) told then Surfect had secs in

Miad and was nou in vasninitar, D.C.

sujec: statud, hovever, *rat

no one knows where he is except de VARONA with whon Saoject 13 foleg

to cut art relational.

VARosA. Suojact azaied that wien ne left cuse Jose datosio PriA

(15/1KD) had Fivea bla $1500 in cash. Saoject statod zhat he vas

te boad of tho Catholic Harolutiouary drow dad ma. jam tag 136

treasurer. Subjec: siarad laa: tha ¡roup's zoney case iros rica

Cubmas sho suppliad tbe Top tich morey.

fosso had arout $10,000 in casa at present for just ruch emergencles

EB Subject's necessity to escape ana that rich soney vas availabio

sor the troup then it begins its revolutiony activitisa in the

future. Suoject astisated that turos persoes in Ciss alose contri-

buted about $100,000 ari it does not include money fros persoos

exiled from Cuba cor the aid of a "contry" unich suogoct did not

nams. suoject desires fros the Untied Sta'es support in training

instructors to train his sen in casuat rochalos end propazanca

material. Suject stated he felt he could get aras and suudy from

other sources.

Ia. subjoct stated that he was told to go to fexico and set lo

touch with the editor of Universal Graphica (base unmova) vino sould

hols sanjoct publish his latter rost artectivaly.

saojec: statod

that the Spanish saassy gave hia this direction.: Susjec: state

saoject also plans to

25. Subject also stated that he has a plan to attack CASBa

alliterily and that his first atloapt will se to roscue kama proa

prison. subject ataied that ho had a national organization inlei

-SECRET

---

## Page 9

104-10162-10176

...

jECRET

IRD $ 38636

22 DeceRDer 1959

uses the Catholic Church as a front jut also uses Masors and Protestanto.

Susjaci plans a union of all no-Coralists sad DOn-JAISIA grOUpe.

16. Following testing Subject sad ited vithho L11-z laramation

regardlag SATiStA people in Miss vita vhas he interis to have contacto.

subject desiris to usa these persone is a source oi considerable macey.

Subjest also stated he would oe villin: to ilentify these cople at a

later dato.

Stojeet also revealea trat a persoa nazai dila:boRos

(AR/IED; La Ricardo's contact in Haiara.

17.

Subject stated that too Rector al St. Sirnislais Hovitlate,

Father ASCARADE (Ia/IRD), hel-od jusjec: bite be it'er but Subject

5515:0d that Father ASCARADS cortected line :or ard ine content of tha

letter was Sideotle rem.

Satane ara"ed that the letter is exapreratod

so that it would appeal better to l'e ranis asd 11le Cuban sat there 18

no artizeration of fact in tre letter be plans to puslish.

13. Subjoct admitted also that he set orly left Caba because ne

Mas arti-Corunist, he also left in order to hurry "ian- sis counter

revolution. Sasject stated iat surroundod in Fantanlila sy Courists

he was prevented fron worki,: tuards ris oal.

19: Subjart uns a 135t intenso versos, vistoly a Itated by tra

Interrovin: situation.

Sanjest saltained that he did not trust the

apparatas (polygraph) although be dii trust the examiner.

Inaisted on to points, that le he vere found questiorabio on the

policeph that ho not me sent bacis to certais death in Cuba, and that

vo latastigato all of his clairs from first hand sources in

29. Subjoct also soered concerned jocause of his inability to

obtain a Mexican visa w.ich vas rafused his by the consul in lavana

because Susject's passpart did not hare a police siamp. Saoject

classed that CASIRO has zen sierjuhore la Klari azi Mexico as vell.

Subjeet also, at every opportunity afardod his, discussed his coxinz

revolutionary plans and hosted tar unicod States sop; art for his

movement.

21. Subject Impressod the exaainer as intolligen:, actressivo,

enerjetio, and Intorsely devoted, alaust laratically, to his desiro

for piarthrouing CASTRO ans sto Connuaists. Sisject is s very enational,

high strung, parrors individual sut juico docile to sanestion and

handling 1f done with di:; nist.

Subject rare the impression of baing

a good organiser and capsole a directine.

Subjeot also ap-agrad to

be sensitivo to laplicatios a dianonesty or diahonorailo acto.

-SECRET

---

