# 104-10171-10072

## Page 1

104-10171-10072

SECRET

10

INFO

FRONT

Caler, Wi Division

Chief of Station, JAVE

chief of station. Medico Gity

Chlet of station, Pi

KUTUBE LEGAAX/Lotter Pros Cuban Ecle 19 Meico

to Pujol In Panaza

Hone;

for Infornation

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

4701 12253 -

56-6-22/b

і лів

17 p.

8-7010

PARITO FOR

: 10 3110

NO INDEXING: LUMED

NOTING

DY QUALITIES 10: DISY. CALY

1.

Attached 1o a vurlux copy of a letter acquired by Dale G. Goasage odes

tha NANNY progra: Vinn Manese, Efercito Macional 32-303, Idea, D. F.,

1a vritlog to Dr. Gullierio Monco Pujol, Box 5202, Panaca, congaculatiag

his on his son! " roleane from Cubs, saying that he hopes that othere vill

also be libaratod.

2.

Manenca says that ho has been dolng all be can in Modico for tro jears,

In bin copacity as a perspapermis, agalast the castro regles. Mama 1oay

Verona, an old friend, began the trento Revolucionario Democratico

(Denocratic Revolutionary Frost) In Moxico, he put Morenza In Charge of all

the press coordination of the ID as sell as keeping contact uits other

revoluttonary brougo.

no such, he has helped the unity novesent wilch pro

proposed and kiich developed there la Mexico pay months ago, organtziag

tos PPC and the loure of Cuban Ddlos, whose exotence today oven itali

to thor triend is Santans and other good friende la escle. A yeur and

a ball ao they created the Acsoctation of Businenanen, Industrialista,

and Profensional bian li adle, of tich lorenza 1s the Preas Secretary In

the executive organ. He 16 02a0 a muder of the organtzation of azaner

a estlo. All these groups hava but one interest - to help retur

lesocratic institutiong to Cuba.

Barenca coys that there 10 now certain covennt wilch indientes to him that

action la balas planed for very coon. Trose Iavolved are Martin Helens,

He hopes tao action sill be backed by toetr

friends in the US, as vithout their holy there cen be so positivo solutios.

11 kay 1962

Attachments,

AS STAUND

Distribution:

3

- HID s/att

2

- HAVE w/att

2

- MIKE w/att

2 - Piles w/o att

Sing. F. Bellegeat

(since die.

''"!

Removed from ProJect

CS Cleons/cation fT 4-11

JOB ti

BoXs

Pelds

RESTRICTED TO IN TID

Cal 12PA - 12253

536

EITION.

AND 512.:

CUES 102.1108

SEARFT

1728A -12283

17126,62

19-9-9

TPISE MO.

I CONTINCES

---

## Page 2

104-10171-10072

RUNOVAL SLIP

DOC. DATE

12 May /962

--...

TIL CS CODY CE CHIS COCUDENT HAS ALIOVED PHOS THIS PILE + 19 -4-1?

DY BID ARD DIPU ON 1 MAY 1963

TRID FILED

BECAUL:

il. it was safar und unprocessed.

12. It was Bytif and unprocossed.

It was EICS ALONE and unprocessed.

73.

11.

it way leif EnRED.

15.

it wa: classified into rile l 19-4-0

16. It 1:: an indered docunent.

17.

pastone n

---

