# 104-10186-10288

## Page 1

104-10186-10288

INFORMATION REPORT KInFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUMJECT

Pedro FARINAS Diaz

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00368-64

29 July 1964

2

3/PV

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

Washirigton, D. C.

Mile 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS LINEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1.

The fellowing report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Pedro FARINAS Diaz, pseudonym "Otoniel," is the chief of the

Centros Legales (MS - Legal Centers) of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of Intelligence) in Cuba,

The MS Department handles all incoming and outgoing material to

and from legal field stations. Source met FARINAS at the DGI

Headquarters in Cuba and through conversation with FARINAS found

out that he was a DGI officer in Bolivia where he was an atlache

at the Cuban Embassy.

Source Saw FARINAS at the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico on or about 21 or 22 March 1964; one day around 22 March

1964 they went sightseeing together. FARINAS travels frequently

and he was possibly in transit to Chile and Bolivia when source

saw him in Mexico. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

Headquarters Comments

1.

In a report dated 12 February 1963 it was stated that one

Pedro FARINAS Diaz, a Cuban who was born on 1 February 1940,

traveled from Lima to Santiago on 31 January 1963 by Canadian

3

2

1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

I AIR

• NSA

REE CINCLAIT CINCSQ* INS

„More Field dinribution indicared try "#"y

MINEORMA HON RERORT

NINLORMATLON REPORT.

LIL SL EOS LNE 3

13.10

WASH

LX-1555

NO PROJEC

IRID AN

ICSCX-31C, CQ303-G

00000184T141 +4:049631

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2

2.

Pacific. He carried diplomatic passport number D-63:2 and his

residence wastisted as the Cuban Embassy,

dated 1 March 1969 reported that FARDS rattied fro

A document

Santiago to La Paz or : February 1963 and his passport number

was recorded as D-s a 12.

A fairly rellable source in a report dated 21 May 1963 told a

representative of this Agency on 19 May 1963 that Pedro

FARINAS Diaz, a Cuban intelligence officer in the Cuban Embassy

in La Paz, contacted him and told him to begin a search for men

who could be used to transmit arms from Bolivia to Peru.

FARINAS also told source he should try to find a safe route from

Bolivia to Peru in the area of Madre de Dius where border

crossings could be made. A previous artempt to find a safe

route ended in failure.

3. An untested source in a report dated 19 June 1963 stated that

Pedro FARINAS Diaz, attache at the Cuban Embassy in La Paz

and a suspected member of the Cuban intelligence service, left

La Paz on Lloyd Aereo Boliviano on 18 June 1963 for Arica, Chile.

4. In a document dated 18 June 1963 it was stated that Pedro FARINAS

Diaz, Cuban intelligence officer, is to return to Habana in the

near future, possibly during the week of 17 June 1963. FARINAS

planned to return to La Paz in two or three months.

5. A report dated 24 March 1964 stated that Pedro FARINAS Diaz,

a Cuban intelligence officer formerly assigned to Li Paz, departed

La Paz on a permanent change of station in June 1963. This

Agency's representatives suspected FARIN.AS to be traveling

on a special mission.

6. In a 22 April 1964 report it was stated that Pedro FARINAS Diaz,

Cuban diplomat assigned to Li Paz, left Santiago for La Paz on

5 April 1964.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

why

mis

sensitive

?

?

---

