# 104-10104-10094

## Page 1

104-10104-100941

06667-0840

24 Ecaruary 1907

ICICRANDJA

SUBJECT: Estinate of Danage Which Could ACcrue 1O CIA

Miami Through Prosecution of the Rolaaco

LaSierIC Maltian Invasion Croup

2. The docision by the Juctice Deprotront to sees a

crand ury indiötment against Roicado Lastarros aná corinin •

vi tis associates 15 a poichcially explosive Dates ValCh

couli cosult in extonsive carage to Cil accivities 12

Charlo

nocent adverse prolicity on ine untional socae tad

in tie liani arca have neded substartially to the aircacy

sizcabio enbarrassnont potential. Sore of the main seczors

cí danger to CIA cquities are coscribed ision.

2.

Basic national publicity regarding studert end.

foundation topics have already attracted aticutich of the

local pzoss to the CIA in garoral.

Usually any refcreuce

to CIA covert activitios loads the press to chock files for

reatencos to aay such accivitica Iccally. Horaver, bozoie

thia action could be balion, iso

the cess insodisciy corcentrated on this topic.

She CiA

Clos of Station loaroed ELzough P0r30z21

press contacts

what this vas partly a matter of luca ard partly bccause

of the friendly end cooperative nititude of bose press

corticts.

Altbough

several caitorials kithly critical of

cin love been published and the icplay of nire service

atories has been given nuch spuce, as jot there has beer.

io local follow-up ained aù putting CIA or the CIA Siction

on the spot.

However, the situation rearias delicate,

even with zuch good will, local newsion cannot

acord to let thensolves be scooped by outsidois concerning

•cscries in their ovn back: jard.

Any now story, such as the 22 rosaury story is

jonal TribUre On SUDOCiCE CIA coasoctick wits

¿ocrusonE o1 Cubar pilois for the Congo, the possible

results of Inquiry madc on 21

con-cosed with the üniversity of miami douspaper tie

or further roucintions concorning tie raa

-Serian roundation, could casily tidder bublicle wie

an invitable focus

on thc South Congas ci the Griversity

ci winni and on the liani Statior Covos firu.

SECRET

the 1

damaging aid

K3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Stell

-I-

06,0€

0: thel

..vo catendod their fullest cooperation

coreciming i.

Rani Station

and overnli Cih interesis und it is arcic-

iated they. will continue to co so.

Howevel, we bellove

1icie is a practical linianio the Irount of pressure

• Đде;

could stand from

LUSTIOIS 11 TOIG IS A 11O00 CE publicity IOLCOIS ind

curaclos aalegedly cortezed in lf controlicd froa vac

the

as i

"Such a sisuation arioes,

35

conceivable that

Dould sec?

swoolled

ros any contactica del

Sanes ther

Pis ostensibly the tenani

riel

alchouge on Ecceral properay,

theresulting action night involve a request for the

cercination of the tenancy-agiconent.

Even il the atove circunstances did no exiet, *e

ouid remin concerned igurding the possible effects of

20 DEOSOCLIION C1 Che 1aSt022C2 82019.

Alesough to

Siation agonts or percons vich von the liani Scatio.

on these who will be proscoutod, du vail de very ersy fos

the dotense do crag CrA Mieni duio the cass.

Cho dcaonce

has obly to obtain testimony (true or pestusco) icc- onc

ca che dofendants, or to sumon is cofchce withoss ore 01

ore dienficoied forner agunts ci toe CIA Station, in

cècr to begin a chain coaction surracing such dotail

ind almos concerning CiA cpercizons againot the Cuban

Given the sizcablo cocuccion o1 icfiltration

ind covert nocion agents during the past your, a borera.

Toeing Of frustration and lack si supposE soo Cubaa

¡cocon attributed to passive .S. policy sa: iccussion

ind the evaluation that Car a0u i2 tie cost 20i207.14e

129

Several purposes, that is, gaining acquation, black.

Jin, and cherting picsaure ou the U.S. Coveraucnt 202 =

rolicy change.

SECRET

---

