# 104-10215-10003

## Page 1

[04-1021510003

... • -

AT R OR SU MOUNT

SECRET KAPEK

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO. HII-A-2025

(201-16081)

(23-08/2-139)

mr. Dahlpen

DATE: _ 7 November 1557

TO

: Chief, WID

FROM:

SUBJECT: GENERA - AdmInistrative

Secre- Arthur G. VAIYADA

1. Attached herewith is a memorandum prepared by the Subject, dated

29 October 1957, calling the attention of Headquarters to the fact that

his assignnent in Habana terminates in June 1958 and setting out his wishes

as to reassignment thereafter.

2 While Vaivada did not include it in his mencrandu, in recent

conversations with the case officer he has excressed considerable interest

in the possibility of being assigned under

saying that both he and his wife would welcone such an assignment. The

Subjeet has also said in those conversations that he would not take it

amiss if an opportunity for reassignment outside of the Central America-

Caribbean area were to becone open to him at any time prior to June 1958.

bere, havin tee dom ne the Station, roada a der of does good job.

problems and situations dring his tour of over tiree years in Habana.

the station is happy to reccumend that his reguest for reassignment be

given every consideration®

дек,

James R Palager

James R. Palinger

Attachments:

Hemorandun of Reassigament (4 copies)

Distribution:

• - Washington w/att.

2 - Files u/atto

I November 1957

JRP/mOn

MiC?

270220

EST Guad 43-23

201-168881

BAR IN 51-28A

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

„КИРОК

---

## Page 2

Havana, Cuba

29 October 1957

senttien..

SUBJECT: Reassignment - Arthur C. Valvada

TO

* Headquarters Desi

THROUCH: Chief of Station, Havana, Cuba

While at Headquarters in the early part of May 1957, it was verbally

agreed that I return to Cuba for about one year, security permitting.

2. While my operational work in Cuba from August 195L until February

1957 was concentrated on communist targets in the University of Habana, it

should te pointed out that my dities during that period also involved many

contacts with subversive oppositionist elements.

then goverrrental persecution

Increased during rebruary 1951, two of my key agents were lost, one of them

by governmental assassination, so that I was obliged to leave Cuba temporarily

perding clarification of the security factors involved.

During my three

months atsence in PEPRIME the local situation deteriorated; and after my

return sy position was less favorable than it had been as a newcomer since I

had lost assets but had retained the cumlative security hazards of three jears

of cultivation and recruitment efforts.

The University was, and still 13,

closed. Our coumnist penetration efforts are continuously harrassed by

official persecution of the target group.

30

Since by June 1958 I shall have spent four jears in Cuba, I believe

It appropriate to subait this letter at this time requesting that Headquarters

begin to study the possibilities for reassignment about June 1958, or prior

to that date if necessary. As to future assignments, I have no reservations

or special recuests.

I am willing and repared to travel, to any area

consietent with my qualifications.

Generally speaking, and for obvious

security reasons, I an interested in getting out of the Central Arerica-

Caribtean area if possible.

It way be recalled that I was denied an

visa 1n 1953, for purely technical reasons. This situation may be changed.

and I would not be apposed to a tour in

pr any of the

In this matter, the nature of the new project or

assignrent would take precedence with me over personal preferences as to

particular area of assignmento

102/39

for dad 43-26

HEE AKHA 4025

261-168881

---

## Page 3

Reassignment - Arthur G. Vaivada

29 October 1957, Page 2

4o Regarding my

writing has been used as a realistic, sto gapl

provided with a potionall

I understand that journalism is considered a weak and tine-worm

yet if it is worked

at, and financially managed through a PERIM

checking account, it not only satisfies local sS probes but it does not have

the inherent disadvantages involved in setting up a full-fledged

I set this out as a possible suggestion to Headquarters, but have

Ine notional

no insistence pooided me has proved satisfactory li a limited sense thus

far, and even utilized as I

7ºor action occasionally, but I would be

uncertein about introducing it in a less "Americanized" country than Cuba.

Zither 6. Vanida

rthur G. Vaivada

09

201-16888

---

