# 104-10413-10297

## Page 1

104-10413-10297

DISPATCH

SECKET

TO

Chief, WIl Division

INFO

FROM

DESENSITIZED

per CSN 43-43

Chief of Station, Mexico City

"LIFEAT Progress Report, January 1963

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Action: See paragraph G.

Ref : HMMA-20531

C'HO

(OSED

XXXX

FROCLSSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDIXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIEND

HEADQUARTEHS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

Arte

89154

AN

PS.-

DES IRD

FI

we went da

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSFHB-F 52-6-1.

section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1).

A.

EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

1) LIFEAT/SOVIET

Continued coverage of the home of Aleksandr G, SIDOROV provided valuable ma-

¡terial concerning the activities and routine of SIDOROV, his wife and is maid.

This information is considered essential for a planned re-entry of Subjeci's

quarters in connection with the MKCHARITY-20 operation.

2) LIFEAT/POLISH

Provided continuing information on the daily activities and contacts of the Polisi

Embassy persomel in Mexico City.

3) LIFEAT/YUGOSLAV

During the reporting period, LIFEAT provided informacion that gave timely war-

ning of the possibility of gaining access to Yugoslav official correspondence.

LIFEAT information enabled the Statio.1 to plan this attempi in detail and remain

abreast of developments in this case while awaiting Headquarters's decision

whether or not to proceed with this effort. LIFEAT also provided travel infor-

mation on a Yugoslav TDY intelligence officer which was very useful to ODENVY.

Remove from Project

Cs Classification:

(Continued)

JOB #

Box:

DATE DISPATCHED

8 Mar. 1963

Fold:

5 CROSS REFERENCE TO

RFCORD COPY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRECA

DATE TYPED

7 Mar. 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA- 20373

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

50-6-32/3%

---

## Page 2

13-00000

300

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET,

HMM*-20873

r..a

4) LIFEAT/CUBAN

LIFEAT coverage of two relatives of AMSTRUI-2 provides an "essential" check

oil the activities of AMSTRUT-2, and particular information which aids the in-

terested case officers plan the actual contacis with AMSTRUT-2 plus the progres

of the AMSTRUT operation. The value of LIFEAT providing an unilateral check

on the activities of AMSTRUT-2 and her relatives during critical periods of the

AMSTRUT operation cannot be over emphasized. Copies of the daily take from

the two lines covered by LIFEAT for the AMSTRUT operation are forwarded

twice a week to WAVE.

5) LIFEAT/EXILE

LIFEAT information is drawn on heavily both for the present harassment campai

direcied against ESLARD-1 as well as for daily intelligence on the activities and

contacts of this target.

Weekly summaries of LIFEAT provided material are

cabled direcily to Headquarters and Station Guatemala City.

6) LIFEAT/AMERICAN COMMUNISTS

As per reference, coverage in this area was resumed o! 22 January 1963 with th:

return from home leave of the ODENVY processor of these lines. Travel and

contacis of the American Cominunist Group in Mexico (ACGM) provided by the

LIFEAT take are of particular interes: to ODENVY.

B. PROCESSING OF TAPES

Only change noted in paragraph 1. A (6) above.

C. LIAISON

Resumption of local liaison with ODENVY as noted in paragraph 1. A (6) above.

D. SECURITY

i) The installation of new municipal lighting for many areas in Mexico

City noted in reference continued during January 1963, but at a reduced scale.

Some areas covered by LIFEAT basehouses are now free of the installation

crews.

ii) Due to the circumstances under which most of the LIFEAT basehouse

keepers were originally recruited or shifted from other projects to employment

in LIFEAT (in most cases at least ten years ago) they are either aware or have

reason to suspect that they are now, or at one time were, employed by KUBARK

working out of the local ODACID installation. LEBAT outside principal agent.

DevidM. WILSTED. (at Station direction) is making a major aid continuing effol

Io orient the LIFEAT personnel toward the idea that there is no present contact.

with the ODACID installation, that WILSTED and Wame C. DRABAND (under alia

are solely responsible for the operation and that they report directly to "Head-

quarters" in PBPRIME. When and if necessary for the Station Case Officer in

charge of LIFEAT to meet any of the local agents under LIFEAT, it is under alia

If protracted meerings of this type become necessary a cover story will be devel-

oped for the Case Officer's continued presence in Mexico,. such as "tourist"

status or commercial employment with an unnamed PBPRIME firm doing business

in Mexico.

E. TECHNICAL

An additional six Revere audio recorders were received during the month of Janui

1963 for the LIFEAT operation. These have been placed in operation and are pet

• forming well

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRETA

HMMA -20373

F. COVERAGE

During the month of January 1963 LIFEAT provided unilateral coverage on a total

of 13 target lines. Coverage by target was as follows:

1. Aleksand G. SIDOROV

2. and 3.

Polish Embassy

4, 5, and 6. Yugoslav Embassy

7. and 8. AMSTRUT Overation

9.

10.

11.

12.

Home uf a Czech Intelligence Officer

13. Albert MALTZ

G.

PERSONNEL

David M. WILSTED returned from home leave on 1 February 1963 and assumed full

responsibilities as LIFEAT outside Case Officer. Wayne C. DRABAND and

LIEMBRACE-8 who substituted for WILSTED in the LIFEAT operational and techni-

cal phases respectively during WILSTED's absence are to be commended for their

maintaining LIFEAT at the high level of efficiency and security normally enjoyed

by the operation. DRABAND's performance was the subject of separate correspon

dence (see HMMT-3469).

As presently projected, Wayne C. DRABAND will be leaving Mexico on or about 1

November 1963.

The responsible Station Case Officer and WILSTED are attempting

toiresolve the problem of a replacement for DRABAND at the local level, primarily

from the pool of agents already employed under the project.. This would have the

advantage of not further disseminating the faci that LIFEAT does exist, but would

have the serious drawback of giving knowledge of the whole operation (i.e. all

basehouses) to another Mexican national. (Note: At present LIFEUD-2 and

LIFEUD-3, the two

who now conneci the lap lines to the basehouses, are

the only Mexican nationals who know of the location of all LIFEAT basehouses.)

The Station does not desire another staff employee io fill this position, but would

prefer a U.S. citizen, technically competent, with some working knowledge of Span-

rish or ability to acquire a working knowledge of spanish. Since working papers are

extremely ditticult to obtain at present, for cover purposes anyone coming into

Mexico to fill the LIFEAT position would probably have lo come as a retired person

with a guaranteed income. It is thought that perhaps an individual retiring from one

Nof the Armed Forces in a technical rating might have the best possibilities of filling

all the requirements noted,

Although the Station will continue to explore all possible solutions io the problem,

it is requested that Headquarters' views and, if possible, assisiance be given the

Station in this matter.

2. Diring the reporting period a number of memoranda were prepared by

the Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole or in part on

LIFEAT provided material. The following HMMs were provided as a by-product

of the LIFEAT Operation:

HMM-6993

HMM-7011

HMM-7005

HMM-7048

HMM-7073

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution: 13

C/WHD;

USE PREVIOUS IDITION

REPLACES COUL

2 - Files

57-1-3213

SSIFICATION

---

