# 104-10074-10174

## Page 1

T104-10074-10174

SECRET/SENSITIVE

OSS-142-74

18 January 1974

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Case 61401 - CIA Operative in El

Salvador

REFS

MIM-006-74, 4 January

C. Jog 1VX DCD/Washington 96860,

16 January 1974

(MacVane telecon 17 January 1974

telecon

17 January 1974

TWX DCD/Miami 12475,

TWX DCD/Miami 12476, 17 January 1974

¿One of our sources in Miami, Joseph Merola, revealed

the name and position of an individual reported

to

be an Agency

official in El Salvador to Matt MacVane during the course of an

intervtew on 21 December 1973.

This was reported in NIM-006-74

4 January 197%..

This report was forwarded to the El Salvador

Desk on 8 January 1974.

On 16 January 1974 the Desk requested

that DCD obtain

the name of the individual mentioned in this

memorandum who said he knew a CIA officer in

request was passed by telecon and TVX to MacVane byl

vane bybassy. a This

16 January 1974.

The El Salvador Desk also questioned the

reliability of our source, Joseph Merola,

at

this time and

requested we query Miami as to his reliability.

visited the El Salvador Desk to ascertain

On 17 January 1974 at the request of MacVane,

their objections to

our source,

known to us as a convicted felon.

Desk objections

stemned from a 1964 report which indicated that Merola had

informed persons that he was a

"CIA agent".

Further conversa

tion

elicited the fact that Merola had again made

this state-

ment in 1973 at an Embassy function.

We advised the Desk that

DCD was

well aware of Merola's criminal background but

that he

had provided DCD with reliable reports in the past unrelated

to his own "pursuits".

The El Salvador desk confirmed the fact that' the

individual mentioned by Merola's informant as being a. CIA

officer was, in fact such.

telecon on 17

Rya Vane ad Mac Vane o1. this, per

they were sending two cables relating to this case?, The first

would provide the name of the person who reportedly knew the

CIA official. The second provided the names of two women

employed in the Embassy who were reportedly involved

E. 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

SECKET/ SENSIVE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET / SENSITIVE

situations with both Americane, and local nationals.

Th18:

attor cable was requested after the El Salvador desk:

officers

advlsed

pursued.

that all avenues and possible leads were to be

to determine who leaked the information relating to the

CIAvOTI

These two names (phonetically' spelled) were

providedsin the second cable by, Miami.

All of the information

El Salvador: desk by E

macyane advised 03v1

Ivia telecon that he anticipate

meeting with Joseph Merola at 1400 on 17 Januarysto address

further mattere concerned with thie case.

MacVane advised

that& ho

would forward

such information as soon as possible

ACC:

Miant Field Office

CCS:

A WH/.2/GS

CC: Bensitive Control Officer

SECHET/SENSITIVE

---

