# 104-10174-10072

## Page 1

104-10174-10072

BATERIAL REVISED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COUMITTEE ON ASSASSISATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUME:

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECFIVED

2:15

8.8.т

22 angi

DATE

RETURNED

JAME

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

PAT ORR

JAMES P. KELLy

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

gai

1. Kelly

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

BUSINESS:

Subject 1s a retired CIA erployee.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

...

---

## Page 4

14-00000

---

## Page 5

80019-44-94

27 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

ex BKHERALD Staff Employee

#194414

1.

called on 26 February to advise that

in his judgmert DCD's roll in this matter is finished.

has sent: this material to John Kennedy, NARCOG, who has advised

John Werner, Drug Enforcement Agency, who will contact

directly.

Jhas contacted

directly and notified

him that

will be calling him.

no further action by DCD in this matter, and,

therefore, se

see

been so advised.

Deputy Chief of Operations, DCD

Distribution:

Orig. - OC/DCD Chrono

~1 - Control

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 018877

to. vi

---

## Page 6

NFZ-002-76

Chief, Dopestle Collection Divlaton

---.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

---

## Page 8

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 9

14-00000

---

## Page 10

14-00000

---

## Page 11

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 12

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 13

14-00000

---

## Page 14

14-00000

---

## Page 15

ORIGINATOR

Knayst/NAL 'ELE NO

XX. DIVISION SOURCE AYO CHRONO.

SUBJECT

MEBIES FILES AND CHROMO, FILE

Memo

ex-BIRALD Staff Employee

DATES SMATERIAL, CLASSIFICATION

14 Jan

NO COPIES RETAINED

DATE RECEIVE

b. Jan7

ROUTING

2. C/aps

3 C/D'cs

DATE

INITIALS

20 761976:

19-44-94

has pissed to.

27 Fet

ft.

leco, it belongs,

7.

Cantul

FILES DISPOSITION

3/z

1P K

FILE THIS. GUrE WITH DOCUMENT

---

## Page 16

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

14-00000

---

## Page 19

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 20

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 21

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 22

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 23

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 24

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

G02R2U711

N0L-00376

ATTN

Chiat, Dossstie Callection Divlaion

Daputy Chief of Operations

Cheer

Pabltention of Itera Balating to Cubin Operations

19 Jamary 1976

1944947.

He met with

a retired Agency araff employes,

on 7 Jamsiry 1976 at als hom in Tampa, Morida.

had requested

the meting through contset with occ.

One item of Interest

•conceras a book he miahas to urite on Cuban operations during the

perfod 1961-67.

currently to in the process of preparing one

hook (on tha Bay of Pige) for publication. Recently, however, he

spoto with George Crile, inho 1e uriting a book on latergate burglara

lugento Martines and Bernard Barker.

Crile lodicated be and co-author

Taylor Branch plan to follow that book with one on the Agency", Cubas

operations, and focus on

Ito major figures

1a tha lay of Plea Iuvasion. Since Martines was deeply Involved with

during the bey of Pige ani In suboequent

operations againat Caba, he will he the primary sure for the book.

ballaves the story Marelney will provide will be somewhat

Inaccurate because lin only san developments-from the vantage point of

a ship captala.

(shs ge cohort Robertson de deceased) belleves

only ba ear provide an accurate recounting.

The Martines book 1e

schaduled for printing la the smor of 1976.

would Ilka to

beat Crile and Branch to the punch.

Indeed, he balleves they olll not

publish thalr book 18 eney know ke la going to publish one on tha an

subject.

What

wishes 1s an Indiestion of ganeral Aganey reaction

to any smucript be right write on the perfod.

3.

wishes to write about the operstions of the AMLILAC

Aroup

(Commandos Mombloel) during the pertod 1961-67, when.

conducted about 100 infiltration and exfiltration operations in Caba.

Any minocript be drifts will, of course, ba submitted to cha Agency

for review.

He does not sigh to got lato the writing job, borever,

If there to a blankat prohibition on desertblag Agency operations

which occurred in that period and place.

He notes that Martines, not

fettered ly Agency restrictions, vill provide Crile and Hranch wich

his recalleettons.

belloves ho can covar the material lo a way

which al! not hurt anyone or expose anything.

He had so intentions

of. gutting lato the comando raid recounting bualnem intil be beard

tron crile recently.

R2 LODET CL. 8Y 011668

---

## Page 27

CONFIRENTIAL

B71 003-76

Stoco tino in Importaat on this mattar,

shall appreciate

a falrly quiet rempone on chia question.

He recognizes no 1loal

deciaton on hle nanueeripe ena be made mull Agency offledals revlei

1e. At the suna timo, homavor, 1t my not be too difficule to aserrtalm

the presence or abaence of a blankes restriction on urteing about ehta

• ere.

---

## Page 28

19-44-94

Dex 18

3 29 PH 75

C 00

E

A L

162000Z DEC 15 STAFF

CITE DCO

13034

DCD

ATTI. DEPUTY CHIEF OF OPERATIONS

FROM!. CHIE

SUBJ%

TAMPA, FLORIDA

REF &

TELECON

16 DECENBER 197S, SAME SUBJECT.

I TALKED WITH

SUBJECT BY TELEPHONE THIS AFTERNOON•

HE WILL BE

INTERVIEVED IN THE VERY NEAR FUTURE AND VE WILL PROVIDE YOU WITH A

FULL REPORT®

EZ IMPDET CL. БY 611668

COUFID

---

## Page 29

CONFIDENTIAL

DIARY, 16 December 1975

191157

1.

called this date to adrise that ex-clA

employce (now retfred)

over the telephure

that, he wants to consult with a s off seers son undefine problens

concerning other ex-CIA employees.

frivolved in the

Bay of pigs operation and is an onen protanonist of

CIA, is writing a book. He is in contact with_

respect

to OGC's need to review the book before it is published.

who belleves that

may be connected with

a DCD officer

where he is now living, and listen to his story.

some importance and urgency to his request and indicated that it

would be advantageous for the Agency to remain on nood terms

I told him I would pass his request on to higher DCD

thority and let him know what is decided.

CONFIDENTIAL , 2 IMPOET L BY 01065e

---

## Page 30

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(when filled in) .

PROCESS SHEET FOR DED COLLECTIONS

121us

NUMBER

c0121012/20

FORNANCES

109.

2l2el0 2ol2-2e

XI N

SAMAR d1

0111

113161

Eulugio Cantillo/Claim of High Quality Uranium Deposits In Cuban Mine

CUCT IName, Furio, Organisarion, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

19-04. I

3

19.16:09

0i 2010

*: 18 F1A1-

RESTED

TUDE DO-E.

SUBJECT

17.48 40 00

SJURCE (Name, Tille, Organisarion, Address)

Same

SUB-SOURCE (Nome. Toila, Organ sotron, Address)

THERE WEE WO

OTHER DOCUMEN:

METMOS OF COLLECTION

THIP REDORT

Orati (Specily belom)

ETE TOESK OFFICEA

DIRECTED TO

FIELD COUMENT:

We decided 0D A(S) would be the most

appropriate format for this information

since AKULE has (according to Source) had

a long relationship with the general.

Any follow up request for verification

would Ilkely go through that route.

Source has not previously passed

the

information to an Agency representative

7.00 SEMERAL

DA. OTMER/USE.

INDIVIDUAL NO.

HSUPAICENT...

ORGANIZATION NO.

17010-20

FRON

15.

EXCHANGESICOL. 3E%

3. COMUEACIAL

2-BILATERAL

HEACOUARTERS CONSENTS

ARULE

#H 27779

KIO

AMA MI

9590e: 90: e 61186183. 651091991

C.A:

1x.x

INDIVIDUALTO.

7-75

MAM

COUNTRY

#: 7570187-79487

CONFID

BRANCH-SECTION CHIE

OSE

EEZ IMPET CL 8Y 006637}

87-9A1

---

## Page 33

CLASSIRICATION

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

•COUNTRY Caba

SUBJECT

Beluglo Cuntillo/Clain of ligh

Huality Urantua Deposies fa*

Caban Hine

REPORT NO.

DATE

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

00-A(5)-322/00270-76

13 Jensary 1976

1

This report is believed to contain. information of operational interest and may not be disclosed to personnel outside

the Directoräte of Operations without the prior permission of the Domestic Collection Dinnsion.

2:

3.

5:

3

2

Elaglo Centillo,

is a former Caban general.

In 1956, when

he was the Chiet of che Cuban Ali Force under Cuban dictator Batista,

Cantillo'e uncle come to him with an ore sanple the unele had

uncovnred in an abandoned formor Spanish uine in Cuba.

the uncle

suspected the ore was urantm, Cantillo brought the specimen to

the US, where it was assayed by an unnaned US survay company 88

being the richest uranton suple the fira had ever tested. Cantillo

and the mcle, who ware tha only Individuals aware of the location

of the eine, recognised archale Cahen lays did not protect their

find, so the general attempted to get Batiata to ebange the miaing

státutes.. Batisia susposted the sinaral had come across something

significent, andhhe

sent a tean of; men to tha Pinar del Rlo area

for sdr nonths on a search.

The tean uncovered nothing.

Batista

also tried to work out a deal there he wuld be a partner la the

venture as a pre condition to changing the mining laus.

unsuccessful in convlacing Cantillo to permit him to becone a

partner.

At that tine, the revolution reached full latensity, and

Battota left the country.

Cintillo's uncle to still la Cuba.

Despite Cantdllo's Imprisonment

by the Fidel Castro regina for aine years, he has never told anyone

about: his ele's find.

Approxinately one year ago, Canelllo

approached a retired Apency staff employee and Informed him of the

uncle's find.

He did so after all these years becanse of the

developing rolations betwen. che US :and Cuba.

mantillo feels pie

US my he able to make use of infornation. that Castro does not

poddess about the riches that extot in his own nation, and chat

Castro and the USSR vould eaplialite on the find if they were

to

becove avare of it. In his view, the US should know of this

potentlad before it conducts negottations with Caatro.

The general

1o willlns to provide the name of the assay company, so that

documentation can be obtained on the purity of the uranium.

The general's US contact notes Cantillo 13 not the sore of men sto

spenks Inaccurataly abort thinge such as chis.

He described Cantillo

as s "aolld my"', and says the infornation Cantillo has provtied

probably la rellable.

5

- and -

CLASSIFICATION

6-0-3-{-I-I-E-#I-I-1-1

9109510US

670)

---

