# 104-10166-10174

## Page 1

104-1016.10174)*

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

S ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

] CONCOCENTIAL

SECRET

Clemard Charles of Haiti

MOMI

DCS, 'OSS - Citusulta: y

For Ho don

minal, um

2268

2321,358

1 April 1966

DATE

CENE

FORWARDE

10/08

с/m/7/8a1t1 03

Mra

83-83-2630, tgs

03

Bet:

Manulin

of 7 AprIL 1966

telecon:

Attached for your inforvation

and retention le copy of NYOR-5958

which pertains to: referenced

telecom.: Per your inatructions

ve will emphanise: importance to

our Ion orfice to effect contest

vith "Captain Balog" when Clemard

returns from vinit to Italy and

France.

Farisa

Mr Brown

Suck: file

RETURN TO CIA

Backg/ound Use Oy

Đo Not Reproduce

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

CO UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 2

RR ESC

DE ES3

43

2962006

ZNY XXXXX

R 062085Z

BT

XXXXX

NINE FIVE EIGNT VA

7...

Are 6. 3 52 PH T3

DI. CRET TITO 062002

UN CITE NYOR 5958

CRAJKOVERL FRON FREUND FOR BALOO

SUBJICT & CLOSED CASE 40,356 - CLENARD CHARLES OF NAITI

: NO FILLING IN FOR BALOO, WHO IS ON SA, FREUND TOOK CALL FROM

CHARLES, UNO IS AT VALDORE ASTORIA FOR SHORT TINI ONLY EN ROUTE TO

TALE AND FRENCE. CHARLES VAS VERY EAGER TO BET BALOQ'S PHONE NUMBER=

BUT I TOLD KIM "CAPTAIN BALOG" HAS SERIOUSLY ILL.

So CHARLES VILL ATTEMPT TO REACH OUR CAPTAIN. ON VAT BACK. IN ABOUT

A GEEK'S FIRE. SOREBODY PLACED CALL AND-INITIALLY SPOXE POR

CHAPLES, BUT I HAVE NO MAY OF KHOWING WHETHER IT WAS GEORBE

DE MONRENSHILDT. ALSO THERE IS NO INDICATION WHAT CHARLES WANTS

AT THIS TIME®

::do & DID NOT NAVE BENEFIT OF YOUR VA 66S08 WHEN L SPOKE TO

CHARLES AND COULE NOT MOLD MIM OFF SINCE ME WAS AECUT TO VACATE MOTEL•

PLEASE CONFIRM AND/OR UP-DATE INSTRUCTIONS. FUN BALOO, IN. PARTICULAR

# EMANLIS ALONE MANTS TO SEE BALOO LATER THIS MONTH•

DO DYII CHARLES ASKED

TON MY NAMED & DAVE HIM MY REGISTERLO

PSEUDO FINUS ANT MILITARY TITLE•

BIGGET

SECRET

---

