# 104-10119-10250

## Page 1

104-10119-10250

limp

RETURN TO CIA

Background Usa

paint on.

BR

!

ATTACIMONT

"SUNTICI

SILITSAY, BOrla YeflnovICh #275069 - SSD

NOaBY, A11ae 1172252

According to several sounces Boris Y. Bolitakly ln an associate of

Lino Modby, Whose neme appoared in Oswald's addresa book. (Page 61 o

the sadross bool, which is on page 22 of the FBI memorandum of 31

December 1953.

She 18 mentioned also In CI/SIC's cover nemorandum

dated 10 January 1964.)

According to

SR/2/CE, $56948 SD & SSD, 1n September

1958, A11ne Mosby was In direct

contact with Soris I. Belitakly, a

Eussian official et the russeld World Palr, and "was the center of a

creat deal of activity for (bim)".

stated that Belltskly, who was

the Head of the British Division of Radió Moscow, had been an Interpreter

for the Ruscions at the Brussols World Fair: 'He previously had been 1s

the United States with his father, who was with AMTOßG in the late 1920°c/

early:1930'B. Doylo]said that Belltakly attended school In New Yor City

and that the fantly returned to Russia in 1936 or 1937.

Tith further reference to Mosby,

noted that there vas a direct

relationabip batween Moaby, Koch (Carl Feary Koch,

*50001 and Volkeri

(Georrs Volkort, 1352385, - ESD) - 211 of whom hot been of Interest with

totcrence to bolitokly.

Others whom Mosby knew Included Alerander Dolbers. 4165651 - SS,

to than sha was introduced by Nellinst 1 RIsel

83853 - SSD, 6t113

another tno wad of interent in connection with Belitskiy

CI/SIG was advised in late 1958 regeraing the above Individuals and

informed that cI/aA vas elso Interested in then.

According to Inforintion furnished by Fitzgerald Curtis Smith,

1176178 - SaD, durlag a dobriolas In June 1959, Borle Y. Bolltelly, whom

Smith knew In Moscow, was in great feer of, being purged,

"as was his

father, a Fussian Jew, who had onco lived in Now York."

According to

Emith, Bolltakly Inew and trusted no U.S, citizens In Moscow otber than

himecif (Smith) and Aline Moaby, UPI corraspondent in Mascow. Smith aaid

Iolstckly mot Aline Mouby at the Brussels World Fair in the surmer of 1958,

at tho semo time he not smith. smith said be subsequently contacted

Belitstly In Moscow In December 1958, through NBC Correspondent Irvine R.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Another to knows, or has knows, Aline Mosty 1s former Agency employes

Georto Wintero, 155769, Winters stated during an Interview In November/

December 1960,

when discussing Americans in Moscow who lived beyond their

mans, that newspapernan Harry Schapirotwas a very heavy loser at poker.

to the extent that "one got the Impression ho was on the Soviet budget."

Schopiro, he raid, had & Russian wife who was more aggrecaive than he.

Winters added that nawspaperwoman Aline Mosby was in Schapiro's office;

and cornested that she "stuck mostly to the foreign circult rather than

the Enbacay circult." Be said that she had been in the hospital on several

ocassions during the previous year, so that "one didn't see too mich of her";

and added that according to gossip one hospitalization was ocassioned by an

abortion.

Another newspaperwoman In Moscow,

whom Winters mentioned, was Priscille

Johnsos, #T1589-DI.

She has been mentioned in newspaper articles as one who

recalled having come in contact with Lee Harvey Oswald in Moscow, where she

Interviewed (or talked) with bim. Her name, like Mosby's, was listed 12 his

address book under her lest name only.

Nosby wan born on 27 July 1922 In Missoula, Montana; and graduated

from the Univeroity of Montana In 1943. She was employed by United Press

In Scattlo, Washington, from 1943 to 1945, and was Hollywood Correspondent

for UP fron 1945 to 1957. According to the UP Bureau Manager at Los Angeles,

the recigned voluntarily in 195T and her employment was satisfactory. Ac-

cording to Confidential Informant R-1, during an Agency Investigation In the

fall of 1958, she was dropped by UP when she was subpoeaned in connection

with legal suits against Confidential Magazine, for which she had done re-

write work without the nowledge of UP.

She went to the Brussels World Fair

as a stringer for the North American Newspaper Allience. She was considered

loyal by her associates during the above perioa; but was described as "the

co-exicience type who associates with Russians" ("plays footsie with the

Russiano"). No Informant questioned her loyalty.

In January 1960, Mosby reportedly was introduced on the Dave Garroway

show,

"Today", as NBC News' Correspondent; but in a State Department dia-

patch of 12 December 1950, which lioted "Western Correspondents in Moscow",

According to HUA records, Mosby did a motion picture critic type

article for the Dally Worker in 1947; wrote an article for the Daily Worker

at Loguna Beach, California, In 1949; and contributed a colmin to the dolly

Worker on 23 Novenber 1956. According to records of the Civil Service Con-

mission, the Dafly Horker of 26 July 1957 and 29 August 1957 carried infor-

mation regarding her.

M. D. Stevens

who with, his wife

---

