# 104-10136-10347

## Page 1

104-10136-10347

13-1:15-1 SAGSA-JAMAA- 1 SECOSFEZ:

ASP/ASA=5 DIA-10 CSA-2 CHO-2 CSA/=5:

177097

10G I

799756

& SECRET

O FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY GUA TEASE TẠ

CAL

53337

PENS

SERVICE

010:20: 092

TICS D8-315/05557-65

DISTR:: 18 CCTOBER 1955

DATE CO

INFO

13: OCTOBER 1965

22524

SUBJECT

RECENT ATE TRIP OF ROBBETO ALEJOS ARZU TO FUERIO BAPPIOS,

CUATEMALA, INVOLVING GIRLD PATRICE HEMMING AS PILOT

PLACE 2

DATE ACO, UNTO STATES, MIMI (IL OCROBER 1E5)

N. 7-757

SOURCE

# FED REPORT NO. USG 7619

AND:

APPRAISAL À CUPAN ENTICHE, FORCER MEMBER OF A CURÁN COMMANDO CROUP, NEO IS TO IONERA

ASSOCIATED WITH ACCIVISTS.

SOUPCS IS PAGARDED AS ALTARES, LO REVIOUS

REPORTING. FROM HIM FIS: PROVED TO 3E ACCUPATE

столо

0348,40

в хі

(FJELD' COMMENT:

ROBERTO ALEJOS/ ARZU, MILL IONAIRE

RESIDING IN MIAMI BEACH,' FLORIDA, PLANNED TO OVERTHROW. THE

ÉOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA' IN THE SPRING OF 65, USING A GROUP OF

CUBAN EMIGRES WHOM HE HAD RECRUITED FOR THE OPERATION.: ON 4 MAY

SALEJOS AND LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ, MILITARY LEADER OF THE GROUP, WERE

APPREHENDES AND THEIR ÄRMS CACHES SEIZED BY UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

OFFICIALS. THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL REPORTS ON ALEJOS' RECENT

INVOLVEMENT IN ANOTHER ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN EOVERNMENT.)

26: ON 13. OCT 65 ARMANDO MEDINA MONTES DEFOCA, A MEMBER OF ROBERTO

archibited i

SECRET

TO FORSIGN DISSEI/CONISOLIED DISSIN

STATINE •CLA

I &S CIA/KNOC CESTORS FIL BORDER PITTOI COISE CASRD

rod in 80.5:.

madad in

'320

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only:

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

ora 66

NO FORTICY JI5534/CONTROLLE DISSE:

74557

SECRET

IDCSDB-315/

PAGE 2

03367-65

ALEJOS ARZU'S ABORTIVE PLOT TO: OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT

IN THE SPRING: OF: 65, SAID THAT THE PILOT WHO FLEW ALEJOS TO

CUATEMALA "A SHORT TIME AGO" WAS GERALD PATRICK HEMING. :THE

AIRCRAFT LANDED AT PUERTO BARRIOS, GUATEMALA, WIERE IT REMAINED FOR

ABOUT TWO WEEKS. HEMMING IS NOW IN MIANI.: (FIELD COMMENT:

HEMMING, AN AMERICAN SOLDIER OF FORTUNE AND FORMER UNITED STATES.:

MARINE, HAS SEEN ENGAÇED IN CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES FOR

ASOUT. FIVE YEARS. HEMMING,: LEADER OF THE INTER-AMERICAN PENETRATION

FORCE (INTERPEN), A GUERRILLA GROUP, WAS MOST RECENTLY INVOLVED

IN THE RECRUITMENT OF CUSAN EMIGRES WITH GUERRILLA WARFARE

EXFERIENCE WHO WOULD BE WILLING TO FIGHT THE COMMUNIST GUERRILLAS

SIX THE COMINICAN REPUBLIC ON BEHALF OF GENERAL ANTONIÓ IMBER!

"SARRERA.

IT IS, BELIEVED THAT THIS PLAN NEVER MATERIALIZED.)

3. MEDINA INTENDS TO GIVE THIS INFORMATION. TO THE NEW GUATEMALAN

CONSUL GENERAL IN MIAMI, HOPING THAT THIS WILL SHARPEN HIS INTEREST -

IN ALEJOS.: (FIELD COMMENT: TCSIB-315/05350-55

ACCEPTED AN OFFER OF $35, 8ED TO DELIVER ALEJOS SAFELY TO THE

GUATCMALAN AUTHORTTIÉS.) MEDINA SAID THAT HE HAD TALKID TO GENERAL

JOSE DO JUAREZ ARAGON, WHO IS NOW THE CUATEMALAN CONSUL GENERAL

IN: SAN, FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA; AND JUAREZ INFORMED HIM THAT THE NEW

CONSUL CENERAL SHOULD ARRIVE IN MIAMI 5X15 OCT AND WEULD CONTACT

NEDINA. - (FIELD COMMENT:: COLONEL CARLOS IGNAÇIO CONZALEZ

PALACIOS, NEWLY APPOINTED CONSUL CENERAL TO MIAMI, ARRIVED IN MIAMI

CN 13 CCT-)

SECRET

NO 20P3Z0I LESSES/CON

QaD DISSIN

---

## Page 3

Pres era

NO FORZTEN DISSEM/CORTISOLIZO DISSIM

•IDS DB 315/

SECRET

03067-35

4. FIELO DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMAWESTIOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, JENS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, FA

AND USCG..

SERSSONSBE CITES

1622j

AND

MEXICO CITY.):

7÷957

PAGH

SECRET

END OF MESSACE

NO FORIES DISS

ROLLO DISSEI

---

