# 104-10183-10244

## Page 1

104-10183-10244

Aprts 1964A21

Dear Carlos,

(rasancos) and I are vriting this letter since we have not:

received an answer to the previous one

-As I told you to the first letter, 4 Man la Spain for about

I0 days but an back here again.

As I told you on my arrival, I have several things to

talk over with you; and tl'1 stay on In Paris now, it's solely

because I'= walting for you; the cost of living here is very high

indeed so, please, 1f it's

possible I would like to have you

• "hop" over here, because I am not able to settle several matters

until I afscuss them with you; I will explain them.

Furthermore, Rolando wrote to ask me whether I had spoken

to you and I don't want to answer him until after we talk.

O6 " don't know whether you are aware that the "öld one"

(Irasanco'9) father) has left Cuba and is now in Madrid trying to

obtain permission to go to the United States. My ex-wife and the

children are in Barcelona with one of my uncles who lives there.

They are also trying. to get permission to go to the USA..

I wrote "ex-wife" above, but I don't know whether you

have heard that I am getting a divorce and remarrying, possibly

here in Paris but if not then in Spain. The woman whom I am going

to marry is here in Paris with me:

You know her -- (Sonia Perla 06

(G11)) from the (Rivera) Do you remember?

---

## Page 2

-2-

After getting murried, I am thinking of going back to .

Cuba iith her, but this depends on several factors that i will digcuss

with you

As I told you when we last spoke, the message I have for

you is not urgent but, I repeat, it is very important; two months

have already gone by, and there will be some additional delay

(In sending the answer) even after ve do talk, so I think it would

be best to settle this matter as soon as possible.

Well, Carlos, without anything further, and in the hope

of seeing you soon.

Un Suerte abrazo (a big hug)

from your friend

('51 Mago" 06

P.S.

Trasancos)doesn't live 1n

the

any longer. He moved to ap apartment at

Tgeme etage)

Paris 7, France 08

Telephone:

I hope that when you answer you will be able to tell me

5JPS

---

## Page 3

• T

84/64

Migo Cartita:

06

silico viputi s pa to que te sichi nuevameto

Como te docio en sus za habia etido en tipiño abredoda de 1o

dia pero je ste de regiro mcamente a ate

Conia te dijo a mi legada tago ina cena de cas que hables d

centigo y si permansco en Peris s precisamente enferiodi te

a ligado pues cagua lazida 8, sumamate cana s, pai so que

te picto que a te es pento te doss en briquito pa aqui

per bete que cia hite cutigo no prido determin en

no he querido cantetal ricde ii serbio hete

No re ni salis el mejo go solo de lado gen sto momentos re licentro

a Madid tramitando in pas a E. Urids, Titut ,

les sinos esten a Barcelona en un tío seo querero in Bocelena

tratando tambie el pare a E.U.

diciendo a ine zey a cones de ag paultante aquí en Per

orino en & España de que sere qui muges ata aqu (cumigo

3 tu la teno de

3/01

9 despio de casarme precio polo la elle a Calo peo se sta

---

## Page 4

GAd

E la de el incargo que tengo piro ti iraque creado fallams te le

que no ena tsuscite i te repito que es suy imputante s cimogo

hese prido cai des mezo y rampo demerio atigo depuro de balea

risis guero que za ves cinete vedia se este miento ante

Bueno (anto ganin ens y enfermido pode cate pecato

pesinolmate reite un frete alzo 06

de Tu cesigo

08

inado

eme. stage

pas un apto cuya dincia e0o

PAMIS 7

Tetifeno

Ejero que cucado me catites esta jo me pero das de is fede r:

legede

---

