# 104-10073-10042

## Page 1

104-10073-10042

VIA

AIR

(Specity Air or Sea Pouch)

DISPAICH NO!

22

ENTMA71137

LASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, I:D

16-22

DATE

23 January 1957

FROM Chief of

Station

GENERAL

SUBICT 1 SPECIFIC

Cperational

CORDTO CANIA

* 0z

1: Forwarded under separate cover is copy of & report which RAISKILI

arote up on subject.

2. COBOTO ANIA told the ODACID Chief that he thought RAiSKILl had done

a splendid job here.

Quick tell

Denis R. SORPELI

Biclosure:

1. As stated above, USC

22 January 1957

Distribution:

3 - Hearquarters w/1 enel. USC

2 - Files w/1. encl.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

* Do Not Reproduce

CEDE

FROM NA

no. 19

# 09391

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Marduis

Din

SUBJECT: Frank

BARRY

w..

Subject seems to be confused as to the actual duties which he will

undertake while In Nicaragus, which is not unusual, when one considers that

It 1s necessary to make one's own job after getting. in general what the

government has in mind. He apparently is ih the same position that the writer

was on arriving, and spends most of his time waiting to see either the Pres-

Ident or Col. SOMOZA, who, unless you know the ropes, and push people aside,

are almost impossible to corner at any given moment.

Subject stated that he would be working with this Office and would

be in charge of the Presidential protection group. The first step that he

wants to take is to separate the Presidential force from the intelligence

end of the organization. He states that he would like this group to remain

a part of the Office of National Security, but that it should operate

separately with a separate budget. This Office has as yet received no

ocmunication from the powers that be that BARRY 1s assigned to this Office

or that his specific job 18 Presidential protection, nor have the President

or. Col. SOMOZA as much admitted that such a person exists in my presence.

BARRY states that he had a talk with the President on his arrival

and that he approached the security problem from the following angle:

Since it can be assumed that no country in the Western Hemisphere can exist or

progress without the American dollar, and it is & cinch that the average

businessman passing through Managus and seeing the amount of military force

and weapons would never consider investing anything, the military has to

be cut down, and a large plain-clothes security force must be trained.

BARRY stated that the Preaident agreed with this in principal.

On 16 January 1957, the writer had the opertunity of talking with

the subject informatly over some drinks. The subject stated in effect as

follows: He has a contract with the Government for six months, but that if

he doesn't get more cooperation than he has gotten to date, he is not

going to stay. That the security thing was secondary with him, and that he

and/Davidson (Iming) were "in' on a deal to build a hotel in Nicaragua,

and that they already had 80% subscription from a US firm. All that is necessary

will be 20% locally, which he belleves will not be difficult to raise. He

stated that he was also connected indirectly with a real estate firm in

Washington

who had commissioned him to investigate the mortgage set-up

in Nicaragua with an eye to the building of low priced housing around Managua.

He stated that Clint Murchison would be here on Sunday to close negotiations

on a fertilizer plant to sabe built in caragua, under the supervision and

The writer gets the impression that BARRY 1s strictly out for the

buck, and when he found that the Government already had plain clothes:

protection for the President, he was slightly at a loss as to what his job

was to be. He has not toldie of any definite plans for improving Presidential

security, except that he plans to ask the President to use motorcycles in

the convoy, and to purchase four convertable sedans with running-boards.

los transpotiation of the bodyguard.

---

