# 104-10124-10021

## Page 1

104-10124-10021

MILE - C

SECRET

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE

SUBJECT

Janes W. Mcford

CLEARANCE

CRYPTO TRAINING AND OPERATION

REQUESTED

JOE ACCESS ONLY

TO

: Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

FROM: Chief, Communications Security Staff

COMPONENT

OS

DATE

21 May 2962

IS REQUESTED THAT THIS OFFICE BE ADVISED

EMPLOYEE MEETS CURRENT MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR A

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE. AND WHETHER

SECURITY OFFICE

CONCURS

IN GRANTING SUCH A CLEARANCE.

FOR THE CHIEF, COMMUNICATIONS:

03

CRTEF, FROTECTIVE BRANCH

DATE

TO

: Chief, Communications Security Staff

22 MAY 1962

FROM: Chief, Personnel Security Division, Os

52049

THIS IS TO ADVISE THAT SUBJECT MEETS THE CURRENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CRYPTOGRAPHIC

CLEARANCE AND THAT THERE IS

NO

OBJECTION TO SUCH

CLEARANCE.

EMPLOYEE IS U.S. CITIZEN

NO

EMPLOYEE'S SPOUSE IS U.S. CITIZEN

YES

NO

Verbal approval 16 May 62.

File #52049.

To : Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

FROM: Chief, Communications Security Staff

DATE

THE ATTACHED CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE BRIEFING STATEMENT SIGNIFIED THAT SUBJECT ACCEPTED THE CONDITIONS AND RE

SPONSIBILITIES CONTINGENT

UPON GRANTING

OF

THE

CLEARANCE.

CLEARANCE IS EFFECTIVE AS OF

THE DATE

SHOWN

ON

THE BRIEF.

ING STATEMENT.

IT IS REQUESTED THAT THE BRIEFING STATEMENT BE PLACED IN THE

APPROPRIATE FILE MAINTAINED BY YOUR

OFFICE.

CHIEF. PROTECTIVE BRANCH

CRYPTOGRAPMIC CLEARANCE REVOKED AS OF

REASON

FOR

REVOCATION

Beatal trea eumatic

dwigrating and

declassification

ipo.

FORM 1597

3.59

SECRET

(9)

---

