# 104-10079-10073

## Page 1

1104-10079-10073

KORET

5 70%

MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION:

Douglas T. Cummins

FROM:

Robert A. Barteaux

Chief, Information Processing Group

THROUGH:

SA/DO/0

SUBJECT:

DI. Martin Luther King and

Mr. James Earl Ray (U)

REFERENCES:

A. House Select Committee on Assassinations'

Letter (OLC #77-4958) dated 11 November 1977,

Same Subject

B. SA/DO/O Letter dated 25 November 1977,

Same Subject

1.

(S)

An intensive search of the files and indices

of this Directorate has surfaced the attached CIA

information

concerning Mr. James Earl

Ray There will be

separate memorandum concerning Dr. Martin Luther King.

2.

(S) The FBI and Department of State have information

concerning James

Earl Ray.

(U) James Earl Ray was the Subject of OGC requests

76-5403 dated 14 October 1976, 76-6616 dated 23 November 1976

and FOIA request 76-382 dated 27 July 1976.

4. (S) Please be advised that the attached DDO

documents and the information mentioned above are for the

internal use of your office only. Further use of this

information outside this Agency is not authorized without

prior clearances from the SA/DO/0.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

CARE

21131

E. ZIMPDET CL BY.C/1451

#11645

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET

The reasons for the delay of this memorandum

were conveyed to Maurice A. Sovern of SA/D0/0 by telephone

on 15 December 1977•

raciest a Bartenue

Vig: 6375(4 January 1978)

C/IP/HIS:J Edwards/

Distribution:

Orig &

1 Addressee w/att.

1 C/ IPG

1 SA/DO/0

DDO/PIAG

PGS/SEB IPG/SCB

C/CI

C/BUR

C/AF

C/ EA

C/ SE

C/NE

1

1

1

C/LA

C/FR

IP/EIS

SECRET

---

