# 104-10122-10101

## Page 1

104-10122-10101)

SENDET

6 October 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, SB/1

FROM

: Acting Chief, Support Branch

SUBJECT

: PAWLEY, William D.

#78435

(N

21003,08574

13/222:725

Gan Cion!

: to tilit

Ci:.

cia

:. 5.. L:

did 3 more

Filos

1. For your information, Mr.

WH DivisIOn,

extension 2287, called to request

certain support action

relative to the captioned Subject.

2. According to Mr.

members of WH Division and

also of the DCI's office are in frequent contact with the

Subject at his offices in Miami, Florida. It appears that

the Subject is used from time to time for the purpose of

obtaining information relative to the Cuban situation.

Because of Subject's business interests, he is in contact

with various Cuban members of the BATISTA regime.

3. In order to obtain detailed and accurate information

from the subject relative to these various contacts, Mr.I

has requested that our office take the necessary action to In-

stall a technical unit in the offices of PAWLEY. This unit

would be used by PAWLEY to record his conversations with the

various Cubans; and, subsequently, the tapes would be turned

over to this Agency.

4.

Mx o

commented that this matter has been checked

with Colonel KING,

, Wil Division, and that some mention of 1t will

also be made to the DCI's office.

It was suggested by

Ithat our office prepare to

have a man make a survey of Subject's offices during the follow

ing week end and to arrange for the installation as soon there-

after as possible.

6. A formal letter of request will follow, and we should

initiate no action until receipt of same.

Peele Dan

ack M. Bauman

LANCAN: hg

6/October 1959

SECRET

---

