# 104-10534-10098

## Page 1

104-10534-10098

7. UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TRANSMITTAL OF OTS FILES TO OLC

OFFICE OF TECHNICAL SERVICE

EXTENSION

OT'S/MPS

222 South Building

NO.

DATE

26 June 1978

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

whom are tine aches column of show to com men.

• whom.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

MR.

HAROLD P. CLARK

SA DDS&T

6-E-46 HQS

2.

2 gm

3.

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Datejo 03

DDS&T/RMO

6-E-45 HQS

4.

5.

MR. RODGER GABRIELSON

OLC

6-D-5317 HQS

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

670 USE PREMOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

26 June 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Office of Legistative Counsel

ATTENTION

: Rodger S. Gabrielson

SUBJECT

: Transmittal of OTS Files for Permanent

Retention by OLC

During the recent records review conducted by the

Office of Technical Service at

OTS surfaced 4

files that pertain to Lee Harvey

Oswald.

These files were

not found during any previous OTS searches because they

were filed by "Case Number", not by name. These files are

no longer needed by OTS, and they are being turned over to

the Office of Legislative Counsel for their permanent re-

tention. The files in question have been reviewed by Mr.

of the Office of General Counsel and they are

transmitted herewith as attachments to Form 141c.

Chief

Missions and Programs Staff

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

