# 104-10172-10309

## Page 1

104-10172-10309

eonpoldoy on of

VIO O1 NUNIJU

forging

SECRET

(EMEN PULLEO INI

2p

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Dram a lna scroto the aboal undos noch commeal

Ta Routag nod Herond whorl shoull NOT do remared tom lhe allaches RECOND Sorumens

z2

FROM:

DOCUMENT NUMBIN

TO

5.8! 2

ROOM

NO.

rain

DATE

OFFICER'S

1898H888484

INITIALS

29,498

XECROFILMED

DOCUMENT DATE

AUG 2 7 1952

FONCENTERO. SER

tachod document, nore tão lunesos ol the copy nod/es antaca

DoRi hereon ll ella RECORS COPY la to be relained la

lão llles al tho Desk, enil to Chatral Flo fectlan lor par

03

J.

51/2

Phere foodid for ryussaction, wil

SR/6

- ; 03

49530

13 may

years- Thumo totaled

313/468-131

MINI

SRICE

SR/CE/RA

D38 qune

1959 fat

161058

22

10.

WE/l-CE

FILE TITLE

6.:

13.

14.

RI/FI

610m

1404L

FILE NUMBER

INCLOSURE

SECRET

apo. 957

A85T2SL1

INDEX

7IBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

2E7

100 810 34

10

iri, in

THOM

toran.

Costle car 26 dora too for

REMANNeN

Pes Sara 5

DIR 191.57

7 see

VO BeNI: 110-910

NORONGCAEE ROUND

Line Contailors

incent in she saran: indon (Son Cid3919) has bociat

up,

ua surresto? in

reference cable.

At the rises. The luact,

colut

ankod Cestille in de had had i goro time da tie dovict brache

(57.19 tas

the firet Lan crm had met siree costitiers trife

"sen lough colub had

called severel tires to set a luncheon doted) Costille anchored Liai il

was un interestina trap, and thai te enger tle hellet end the icurist

siplite but lie: ta had receivod an crerall led impression ef the Serie:

Union because of the treatment he receird, jolut

roristered surprise.nd

acked

what Cortilie zeante

trille st-cai that he lad veliod lnio iis

hotel roos in heroer and Interrupied thrie Soviets searching his route

Colus storped eating end astor Costillo to contiuuo.

Costil'e then pro-

cecred in leil me complete story as related in 07.73819 in as zuch stail? l

10 his Finish sould allow, Fe began tith ite entry el Volodge on tre scene,

Volodyale obrisis siirs in conversition, ind Costilles lraving the carra

enrij ind valkira into his hotel race.

1i his noint Colub

stated, "You

knos sho these sen were don't you??

Federo Costille could cake an arser,

coluu sald,

Hire internal police.* Cartilio enswared that it was all mairls

obvious who the sen sere and that cher dom engaged in miking a feirlo ex-

tensive

gesrch at his room. Tea triat sade some derogatory renaris about

tim internal chica ari agreed that l: mas a sloppy perfomance.

He stated

that there vere a lct of old litem zin nho transferred to the internal

police and sore not too bright in were ised to this type cl behaviour.

continued that le could not undergrand sig the police insisted in ratina

room searches,

especially of knericans.

He said thes he had written a number

of times to losoch earring that lapricans should be left clone as ore tire

sorething like this would happen and there would he bad publicity.

Costille that as soon es they had danished luach he was ¿cing back to tis

offica and cable loscow and rise a ofiicial complaint.

He also stated tint

he would inform she Soriel Arbossador to Helsirld of the treatment costalle

had received, Costille said that te ales thought the thine fairi, ridiculous

and wondered urst they expected ie tird. Celub answered,

"of course. Shut

did they erect to lini? you are ming and this is the firet tize you bare

been oversess, the did they thin you sere? There will he thousands of

Anericens in the lif this sumer.

mes the internal police think they can

cover everyone ca thea? This 1s ridiculous."

2.

Cestiile continued

ard told hin si mein luck to the me ad tiniire the Soviet girl haring

dinner with Volodra in the room. ke lsited incaravingly and stook tis

head

e9 1f in disgust. He also inter'cosed such statements agg

terrible.

mis is a scandal. I can't deiieve li" Costille told him o?

Volodyag feable alterits to giva lie attuir in illeçal black mariat atos-

chere rather itor a clariestine are.

Carab gaid that only a fcol sould

believe his stoit an in was obvious !'s: they vere seurching Costillo's

Costille next old himof i-e initent kith the three chanes c? his

hotel roome

inlat strind, still laughing int string his head as in ris-

belief,

"Or course, tha: is efficas tou.

They had pour roce hired, id

evidently sa terrarel dirticul:" roored then in hearing moral

lie reposind a paber di iles the brat, scardalo

1086

10 8 33

1419181113-99

Ü/BR

Er orane?

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION CI

DISPATCH

22

?.

Cordinide

erectalit for the

slub

diother

"re serine toot in doin tet, freet did roasder.o

raiu to rust do trider chan Moroin, see

come otte crintryside live the

Carrang or the friarie

Miel: coutlile and lie would pericroill cuirantee

•hat to would is let aler

costite said

ho old not knot it he sould have de line or roney to is back fair, but

muld think abe: in volut rogeried a marber of tinos dice lie socia report

the line to lesson in so =uch detail as Costille hid cold 1l to his.

Coseille alse icid har that of course ie had hod lo roport it to arCil here.

l'e cave no response se

this at allo He asked Contille if he knew the nome

of this Intourist julie and if re hul a picture of him,

so thit te could

notify Moscon exactly no it tas.

Cortillo stated

Wiit he was not certain

of his last rare and thre ai ho know wes Volodin. lie also said int he di

not think he her a snapshot of him.

(N: 15 15 1re. as. Mr. Carruthers cok Ol

tho photo.) Colub ssind Costille for the date the Incident look place.

In all of colub's smirks, he attemptad to discesociate hi=self fron

no participation or knowledge of the affair, placing the blame squarely on

the Soviet internal polire.

(We assure he mant !VD.)

He showed disgust

and aurprise and never orce atterpted to deny thet 1t was a roor search.

attributed it to the general rature of the lD's suspicion of any fereigner

and the sloppiness as heirr, typical of their actions.

Fe once stered that

since it was so sicfpy and all the Soviet participante were so joung it must

have beon part of a *training problen" for ren employees am that Costille

Just happored to be the "problen targat."

It is practically inpossible to

conclude from Golub's stalemento that he hail recoivad a report of cle affair

tron Moscoke

There is only ore slicit indication that he night have received

soze report en Costille's trip, and

thie pertaing to Costflle's krowledge of

the luesian langurge.

Golus had not known that Costille hind pravious acquain

tance with Fussier.

Costille had not deniad this to Colub.

Just rot coue up.

Since Golut speais no inplish, Finnish became the sutual

language.

Golub never asked Costille 1f he knew Russian, and evidently assured

he did not.

However, while in the Soviet Union, Costille used his Fussion,

but only vary liaiiedly, to coder foni, asks prices in stores, and read street

signs.

The reguier Intourist quide, as soll as Volodys, were aware of this.

However, Volodya and Costillo used English togethor.

During the linch hith

Golut when Costille dia

not understard a Finnish word, Golub on one or two

occasions said the nord in fussian.

This was the first time he had ever done

this with Costille.

Costille felt tiat he slould mention to Colub that re

had studied Fussian for a sort while in the University, so he would not thirk

Costille was attempting to hide the fact that he kiew Russian. Golub advised

Costille to see a new Russian norie in torn. Costilla said le would Like to

but did not think his Finnish was that good to read the sub-titing and that

he hard had only one semester of college Riscian, Golub gave no indication of

hoing surprised et this recarlo Howevor, this puttiny a lord not and then into

russion night have bean nothing more shan a natural renction, since i: is his

first lenguages

He are fom ardin: the picture of Volodya thit wis taken by Mr.

O6 Carruthers

dra. Terrucers is also in the jicturo.

Please Bare is Eiry 06

corles of this as peu like and retun tie slicn as nuickly as possibie, as

oh this vol go to Seon

•e Station, ¡e neuld also agrreciate ang trices

Cre stea ea folada so du me trolude in the presloug daggaeer,

13419, which Dir de ol' intonest.

Then Volo.lua was asked way to did 70t

the lour interess on the fine day, te armoral that tie had been acting

as aun of the interioters with frize Mininter incillands proug

cade llls one referral do this, to ne have no way ne mnonin: if 1t ts eme.

nosy

17 April 1938

Erolosure:

Picture tense

tiger lationg

2 = Shi onel,

UH 8952902.9 770:430

899,418 %€161

11$9.8a

Le Costille

6/BR

Rest 4)

86

---

