# 104-10123-10151

## Page 1

104-10123-10151]

SECHET

EYES ONLY

30 MAY 1975

"ENORANDUM FOR:

Inspoctor Geaeral

VIA

:

Deputy Diracior for Adainistration

SUBJECT

:

Senate Solect Cormittoo sa Iatelligenco

operations, Request

(Aos+111/Haheu latter)

1.

Roference is made to a 24 May 1975 list of speciêle

JEqUesIS for Inforaation fros tha Sonato Select Consitise.

The Dffico of Security has

revievod the files Islating to

Robert A. Maheu, Johnny Roselli, and Salvatore Glancana wizh

respect to questions subered 17 and 15 of the refarencod

2.

Question nunbar 17 requested "all naterial relatice

to the

Noverber 1979 discussions roferened on stanged pagos

A rovier of appropriate Office of Security files

disclosed ouly one nonoranua tolating to the Hovencer 1979

"" Tich 13

attachad bereto

tains a sunary of a il Novoaber 1070 talephose call Erou

Robert d. Maheu to Hr. Jazes P. B'Connell in waich 1r.

?-I722 eu

advisad that

Johany Roselli intondod to expose his activities

ou bahall oi the Agoncy unless soneone intarcaded on Roseill's

bahalf.

Attarpts

to locate nonoranda rolating to the 13 ho

1970 briofing of Mr. Richard Helas, as notad on "starped

pages 15-16," in which it uas decided that the Azeccy woulú 20=

assist ir. Rosolll in any way, not with asgative results.

Question nusber 18 requests "all natorini relating

in do traturation and Naturalleation Sorrica concerning Joha

Roselli." A ravion of the approprisie Offico of Security

files disclosod four nerorands, dated Fros 15 FeDIUaTy 1972

Iumigration and Raturallzation Service regardizy Johauy Rosell.

Four renorania ara sttachod hereto as Taja l throuzi i.

SECRET

EYES ONLY

IZ INPOET

CL. BY 212019

53081

---

## Page 2

EYES ONLY

to quizional nasoraala spocitically relating to

luoscions nuibered 17 and 1d could be locatod.

It should ba

noted that during tho period 1 are 1975 through 23 May 1975

1:= Difico si Sacurity file relating to Robert A. Nasau vas

¿a the custody of the inspoctor Seagral vich respece to taa

inquiries assay conduccod hy the Prosidential Connission to

investigate the CIA.

Charles 5. Tase

Diroctor of Sacurity

Atts

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

ADA

1 - D/Security

1 - OS Registry, w/o atts

- SSCIO File

1 - SAG

- Ситоло

OS/PSI/S.AG/

ijan

( 30May75)

SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

