# 104-10177-10206

## Page 1

104-10177-10206

_201 25 7801

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL. UNIT/LOCATION:

45: 1997

LSN/15R

ROOM:

ELLITIONS, IF AVY: THUE AXEINCY DOCUREVES

DATE:

RECEIVED

RETUR INI

(PRINT NNID

toraleat

STANATUR! OF

REVIANING OFFICIA:

Gis tenden

CIR PISTENCAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REGOVID TRAE TURS FILE.

MATERIAL FILED IN 1AS FOLC

IS, IN CHRONGLOCIEAL J2E:

101 127

201 am 207504

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 3

decisi dadai diai cedere ne de alan deita cidi dicai si diciaio

---

## Page 4

I-0000

---

## Page 5

14-00000

---

## Page 6

14-0000

'!?.

---

## Page 7

14-0000c

---

## Page 8

14-00000

---

## Page 9

ONCLASSIFIED

DSONAL

SE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO! DENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optanal)

FROM.

0/SA/D0/0

2D0109

NO

DATE

8 April 1977

maber, and

brante ng)

1542

OFFICER S

INUTIALS

C/ LA

362019 Hqs.

2.

DATE

RECENED:

FORMARDED

11 APi. 1il

1 APE 1517

,41

. 4.

5.

Zele - 201

12.

13.

14.

15.

610-40

SECRET

O CONFICENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

O UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 10

14-00000

---

## Page 11

14-00000

ed

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

•.ir ..

---

## Page 12

14-00000

REPLY

18g1

---

## Page 13

ISSIPICI

+ +86890591984-26.33

•Ear

17 lurch 1077

site rin

SA/LN/SIC0

T.i - 3

ide.

3; 31.

3uе: The

Guld is changed. to

When you're

5032

cares in close,

i 2.

1°3

11.

:S.

6!9

use balt

---

## Page 14

000o

• :

---

## Page 15

100000

---

## Page 16

14-00000

trial "artirely engaged in the senate

nicions Commities

aid Meraid 5a:

15.122 Green, alorey for Carteit

Merre:,

anoiher of thuse cuniseind

aad Harra, said ise prosecutors, Ba

of the Maiergare Burgiary. Martines

lar 1. Trie saura ss Dariei 1: Sup

mis sentiaind out the ClA La che

dir. know Merris was a governo

Eay of Pigs elloct and ia oiher sal-.

agent mid icezelcre "perperraied a

Castro moves

traud upm ine trist court."

"Joe's place in Mismi Beach was on

Tritionin and Sroder are sow fed.

the water and it wei used by art-Cis

cal junges la Pilizeuezi and have at

to groups lo sta gile arms to Cuba."

commented shout ise accon fied to

this source said. "Martiner was one of

Green, which is still pending. But a7

thema."

oincial lamu:ar men their positi

"I can't recall" Martines said, ,

said the mo judges mil, if becessary.

when asked by

The Suleun about

Stear lhey dil BoR snow Meroia was a

using Merula's doct "Really, I can't

governmens agene.

tell you arything about is.

Cuban Connectioni

"He was corneird with helping

people here in. Migra agaist the dic-

"The anseer lo this abole thing re

tatorship of Bassia. He might Fare

volves around Cuba: said this otf.-

been in some other branch that I don't

• cial.

Inow about."

Green, mbo represents Manrarino's

Altredo

Borges, a Miari business

son-in-law, said ke didn't think Ma

consultant and a Bay of Pigs veteran,

- rola's testimony la Chicago hai beca

particularly

told a

Bulletin

reporter

inquiring

"beiphi!" to traiprese

cution. A

"pore logical assurassion"

about verola to "pirase tie me a

is that Meroia was freed from pris

letter."

"I don't know who you ae." Borges

because of mhat be cruld do for le

said "I cannot sais over ite relai

government ir Cuba, be said.

phone."

"This gay works anywhere he wants

One investigator interested in Ma

80," said Green. "The governmer: has :

protecied him in Caltornia,

Chicagu-1

rois said the matter is "very senst

tive, records are hard to come by."

and every where else. He sall has to be

"He seems to tii everytbing." this

of value to lé goverarsear"'

investigator said.

"he's a pilot, se

One thing is certain: Merola is well

speaks Spanish, he kerosis Cuba Rad

known in the Miaral Cuban conJ

De's connected. But nobody manis to

•rity and among those who have been

сорегзіє.

linked to alleged Castro assassinatica

attempts.

A Scared Man

i "Joe was an undercover ageci, he

Records indeed are hard to come

was closely associa.ed with the gor.

by. Oificial and unoticial attempts to

crament,"

Frank Staggis;

of. Miami,

cocain complete recris of Meroia"s

told The Duletin. "He did have an as.

arrests proved fruitiest. So dil efforts

soclation with tic ClA".i.

to determine wha: encounters le

Sturgis, who gaired nocriety as cre

migat have had wis cificials respos

of those conviced in lae Watergal

*ble far watching she nation's bat.

- burglary, was a fon Castro Leutesant

during the revolution to served as a

But despite the Serial of some tha?

Gouble agent for lse CLA. He later

• Mercia enjoys the projection of lia.

worked agains Castro in the Day of.

rovemment while at the same tire

ing to lill Castra

"I know Ice sas tavolved with ie.

revolutionaries " said Saurzis.

know he had an associaton with the.

CIA, bur becguse

mentalizacion,

they re dong. You coat low what

Tied to Burglar

•i source ciose to tie ioose Ascessi.

case.

o Flerida

acquairce.

Know where he gezs in Sui ke's 3a la

torer and they hate isformers. The

5217 :s concemet.

"He goes around Dade (County.).

tu. he is very, very carelul where be

firs joe is scared."

2

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

1d-0d0

TNS aplazon Toe ano BOTTOM

PALAS-IFIID

LUSPIDISTIIL

L SLONET

OFFICIAL ROCTING SLIP

MANE ANO SOUARSE

..i1an

z

RCT3X

1 APPEOYA

COMMENT

• COMCURRENCE

I DIRECT REPLT

DOSSATEM

TTLE

*EAFORMADO"

Remarks:

Eny visilts of the

neety.

TPREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

¡RETURA

SIGMATURE

FOLD NERE TO RETURM TO SENUER

EBÓM: PAMT AOORiNS ANO MiCNE NO

Fa на 237

1-a]

1WA4S-IFIFI

Uno prpmipas eD ba

COSFIDESTIAL

DATA

SFCRFT

140;

---

## Page 19

14-0000

' then y

---

## Page 20

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 21

14-00000

= 3390

sta.in@wcowsd@lian.@tistaasdacs.ii.a721

.-°="'a

iihimiiet.

ornes sinneguststmatharciuoe.

ieeaddireia tai

sogoas auir sate sardedbananca.dn.ca giaito Cadesier.

:'miaiiaé doiaria.

.ce -cdlomoßede0ee ddma aceainae

i¿ oldant macind d ed B tonaz'isa."

3.:.9.

a:. .

'?. "" se

-=.*

---

## Page 22

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 23

14-00000

• 1

...... ?.:17.

•*:..

---

## Page 24

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

0000

---

## Page 27

11-00008

..".

---

## Page 28

14-0000

COSFIDENTIAL

(then "FfFFed In)

30 Jar: 1975

201 File cn U.S. Citizen

The ¿01 11le on

(surname) (20i number indicated below)

can be most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

should be closed.

- witting collaborator. Or Code Al.

potential witting collaborator; date opened

=

forner wicting collaborator (relationship terminated).

01 Code A2.

01 Code A3.

potential witting collaborator never contacted (security reasons,

derogatory information).

OI Code A4.

counterintelligence care (t.e., involving a foreign intelligence or

security service). O1. Code A5.

all others. OI Code A6. ISR

Signed

Thame)

C/LSN/ISR

(title)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

signed

(initials)

(date)

This document in a permanent part of this tile.

(curiponent).

1975

CONFIDESTIAL

(then IffFEd In)

201--..

252804

E2 I SPUFT

0 Bi 002216

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

UACLASSIFIED

U

C IDENTIAL

USE CHLY.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEST

SECRET

SUBJECT

(Ciphons!)

REGISTRATION REQUEST

FROAR.

OPS/L3:1/ INTERAGERCY SOUNCE REGISTER

BJ-S

10: Officer designation, room imbue, and

DATE

building)

RECEIVED

ANNANDED

IP/AIS.

HT - 3

EXTRASION

1064/

5045

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

ISRM

DATE

to votiom.

Hit!

35d1d

0 DEC 1974

each comment to show from whom

3.

4.

5.

IP/EIB

IP/RMS

DW-6

7.

8.

IP/LDI

GT-6

FILE NO. 201.

0257804

LSN/ISR

BU-5

10.

10.

12.

13.

DOCUMENT DATE

ABSTRACT

13.

PORE 610 POTION LE SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

Do UsE ortY

O UACLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

073

2-

REQUESTER:

SSCRET

(Elen Failed lai

S FREQUEST FOR REGISTRATIGN IM THE INTERAGENCY SOURCE REGISTER

Dec 1974

201-

257804

XX NE

RE-REGISTRATION

UTILIIATICR

LTASESOANS CAPELLING VARIATOY.

CITEZENSNIF

v.S.

P/ENA REMARES

NAI TO THAT KNOWN TO THE REQUESTER

(OUTGOING CABLE)

(630872)

1 6 DEC 1974

ISR REPLY TO REQUESTER:

GATE

18 Dec 74

I5AU NUMBER

39,170

1. Nothing in addition to that uk known by the requester.

For possible further information you are referred to the FBI

and the Department of State.

2.

The ISR has no record of a current operational interest th snu

Subject who is hereby registered in the ISB to DEA

NARM

s acted

F158272

TTX 1797 :

SECRET

---

## Page 33

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 34

nr...

. --..

..-

--.

инд чноє dykat de-о du wh- y o wtde dtra

++4-+5---SF1-117T

по-плетати с---л----,-

wwars +--55601

ocii anano

a-knun=

-.M.....A.T..A

+.hern

•sasi pereed sriase ie.

. . .

t 1a..

pgi teha's i+*

eul ier ie dagoooae ue neno!

n--p -ve,, a-n.

rion,

---

## Page 35

14-00000

---

## Page 36

SECRET

---

## Page 37

wiscnsonendddotie

ainen, ==

---

## Page 38

DISPATCH

Chief of Stattor

18 802 DE

SECRET

11N NIG INTENS

FROM

Chief, Nestern Healsphere Diefsion

TACHION REQUARIO RÉFERENCES

Headquarters requested. LKERSO traces on

because of his business association

Trace results were negative.

MAD

Marilyn A. DAKOSKI

DISTRIBUTION:

Orig. &1 - COS

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 031685

CROSS RIFERICE 1O

RECORD COPY

DOPACH SYNDS AND MANSIE

HSSH- 3154

CASSIATEN

SECRET

WM/2155

IP/AN

I OATE

typed I April 1974

1 201-257804

(008S:81114r.

m11

1454

20:4.

013900 1 9141

3. a- v.

i.a.

91,81.

DISPATCH

---

## Page 39

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 40

14-00000

ROLA

---

## Page 41

4-0000c

.......

---

## Page 42

TRANSMI, 'AL SLIP "**

12GS - Patti

POOH NO

REMARKS:

Reply fions

siat

FROM:

ROOM NO.

TRE6 39 241

OPS/LSN

BUILDING

EXTENSION

(47)

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SPEED LETTER

то .

ATTA.

OPS/LIAISON

REPLY

1831

| RETRY REQUESTED 414

_6 February 1974

xi

to 1481-80100

FROM

WH/2/GS

WH/2/GS

SIGHATURE

DATE

SIGNATURE

---

## Page 44

14-0000

a ¿cia pico di dato so

---

## Page 45

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 46

Gad

14-00000

---

## Page 47

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 48

14-00000

SECRET

TO

ATTH:

SPEED LETTER

Chief, WH/2/GS

13 8 4402 Has

COLO MEGUESTED DATE

23 January 1974.

FROM:

055-172-74

DCD/SB/OSS

E-2 IMPDET CL & 010650

REPLY

SECRET

NETINO TO DANIVATOR

1831

"1690"0""

---

## Page 49

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 50

C'-UNCLASSIFIED

SEAMAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFE ATIAL

- SECRET

SUBJECT: (Opterol)

Case 61401 - CLA

Operative

FROM DOLESTIO COSUESTION 9193910N

dupport Brenca/Operational Support Suction

Peam 200 Key Exilding - e3t. 2268

TO: (Officor designation, room number, ord

DATE

FORWARDED

NO

DATE

18 January 1974

OFFICERS

NH/ 2/GS

Atta.

3 B. 4402 ilas:

2.

the attached is for you

nformation and possibl

interest.

(0SS-142-74)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 00гv22

12.

15.

FORM 610 US FÇAS

3-ca

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLI

I UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 51

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 52

14-00000

---

## Page 53

14-000!

NA JAGE

---

## Page 54

4.00000

---

## Page 55

14-00000

---

## Page 56

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 57

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 58

STATE DEFY DOCUVEN

SUBJECT:

PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLAN

DATE : 27 JANUARY 1974

CLASSIFICATION;,

CONPIDENTIAL

DOCUMENT

SAN SALVADOR CC193

NO SILE F GIVEN.

---

## Page 59

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 60

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 61

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 62

UNCLISSIFIED

iNAL

Un OMAY

•J CONF, ATIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT. (Copa gresi)

FROM:

CIA Operativo

• DOMESTIC COLLICIIOS DIVISION

Roca 900, For Ruril

Support Branch, Operational Support Secilos

70. 10m

? dATE

OFFICER!

1.

2.

C/WH/2/GS.

Attn.

3 B 4102 Hgs.

1O JAN 1974

04/414/2

11 JAN 1974-

SECRET

1H-25826

- 8 January 1971

ta conte

The attached Memorandui.

-CIHNM-006-74, is for your

interest and retention.

Please advise us at your

Garliest conventence of

any additional interest

or requirements in this

matter. Thonk you.

CC: CI/OP/YH

. c/h.7/2

(/WH/2/G=S

8.

WH/2/6s/Patte

11 JÁN 1974

Jan.

10.

11.

* 2

1].

_Milita -

(a) fle cail De A to fant aut

-gifeti.

I sint fal terrich,

in e ts secret settece non

le che sent miss lefilt

LEY do statin.

610 1" O SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

3:506

INTERNAL

USE OMIF

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 63

14-00000

---

## Page 64

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 65

14-00000

... ai.

---

## Page 66

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

