# 104-10331-10085

## Page 1

(104-1037-0085)

SECRET

ESG 95-02

14 July 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Chief, Historical Review Group

Fredrick C. Wickham, JI.

DO, Focal Point for ARRB

Position on Release of Information Pertaining to

Mexico City Station and the JFK Assassination

Records

1. At its monthly meeting on 17 July the ARRB will be

addressing the issue of the Mexico City Station and its operation

in light of any deletions made by the Agency to protect sources

and methods. The issues of greatest concern are those

surrounding

teltap operations run by the Agency

official acknowledgment of which could have an

impact on liaison and foreign relations.

We therefore, wish to

maintain protection of this information.

We are willing to release information which indicates

the existence of operational teltaos against the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies

We are willing to release documents which indicate the

existence of Mexico City Station during times outside the window

which we have acknowledged when they contribute significantly to

the historical record. These steps will be useful to the

historic record and reveal the extent of coverage employed

against these targets.

reveal the extent

We would want to continue protection of

the information which identifies coverage of other countries and

individuals other than Lee Harvey Oswald.

3. We also agree to release of the following:

A.

Pseudonyms of employees, aliases of employees,

and file numbers.

CL BY (524343

DECL OADR

DRV COV 2-87

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Position on Release of Information Pertaining to Mexico

City Station and the JFK Assassination Records

B. Cryptonyms, such as those in the LI series..

unless they appear in the context of liaison

operational equities (such as LITENSOR and

LITEMPO) •

c.

We need to continue the protection of the cryptonym

LIENVOY •

This cryptonym is used extensively throughout the

collect to describe

from

different perspectives. Individual occurrences may

not seem to reveal anything significant but, when

looking

at the cryptonym in context over the entire

collection it reveals

which we

are trying to protect.

4. Regarding the revelation of names of employees who

retired under cover, we request the Board to table its final

determination until the individuals have been contacted and

informed that their name is being considered for release. This

will allow the individual to consider the impact it will have and

convey relevant information.

The Directorate database is not set

up to track individuals who were involved in specific operations.

We need the

assistance of the employees to know their operational

involvement's.

Office of Central Cover has prepared and is

coordinating a letter to be sent to the employees which will both

inform them and solicit their assistance/comments.

Fredrick C. Wickham, JI.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• SECRET

SUBJECT:

Position on Release of Information Pertaining to

City Station and the JFK Assassination Records

Mexico

C/IMS/ESG/F. Wickham/44448/13 July

95

Distribution:

Orig &

1

• Addressee

1.

DO/ IRO

ESG/HCS

1

-C/ESG

3

SECRET

---

