# 104-10185-10153

## Page 1

104-10185-10153

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT LaNUOl VEGA Perez

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CSCI -3/752,060

29 June 196≤

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

* RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE S

leshington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. JUne 1964.

FIELD REPORT NO.

IRIS IS LINEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUNCE GRADINGS ALE DEPINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuber

Intellicence Service until April 1964.

Headouarters Connent.

The following report is one of &

scries containing personality information provided by

the source and includes supplerental information fror the

records of this Agency,

Lanuel VIGA Perez, pscudony. "Narcos;" is the Intelligence

chief of tho Direccion General de Inteligencla (DGI

General Directorate of Intelligenco) in Mexiço

replaced bitredo MirABEl in this capacity 1,2, 301,3;6

Headquarters Connents.

1. A document dated 22 May 1962 from 2 fairly relirble

tenor at the cuban de echo kok, co and a portio

2.

Press Attache of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City

and was formerly an instructor at the Cuban G-2 school.

said he believed VIGA to be the deputy chief of

the Cuban G2 in Mexico.

5

3

2

STATE

/ DIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Notes Field distrinution Indiceled by a 0)

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

I NAVY

CINCSO * ILNS

INSA

183xX

TOcR

Bond-cod toon thrte

FBI 2

17/S6/EOB

213/3/8

11 tiMesi

11

L/CILITA

12 CI/ASA

LEIDLAY

TOTALE

/ 6: NX3 1965, (1), VE 1 (2), CI 1, RID 1

LIAISON

LX - 15325

NO PROJECTY

CSCI-3/

COOROIRATINE

(.)

---

## Page 2

3.

4.

5.

6 .

NU FONZIGN DISSEN

-200

C13112.10

A rairlo reliable source was debriefed on 1T June 1962

concernia: Ga training, instruction and students.

Source

aricaded the school for

seven necks in late 1961.

kie reported

the solioning information on (Inu) MARCOS, probably identical

Wait daniel VEGa Perez, aka "Narcos," who was one of the

(inu) MaRCOS was born in approxiately 1927 in Luyane,

Saband. He is tall and has a heavy build; brown hair,

and eyes; a round, clean-shaven face; and walks slowly

slightly forward as he walks.

MARCOS, who is

poorly educa attache at the Cuban dabassy in lexico

instructed classes in intelligence city

and is understood to be the duputy chief of c-2 in dexico.

A residert of Mexico whe has reported rollable information for

about three years said,

in a report dated 18 May 1963,: that

Manuel V'EGA 1s the head-of Cuban intelligence at the Cuban

Erbassy in Mexico City.

In a report dated 22 June 1963 the following Inforcation was

given on Manuel VEGA Perez:

manuel VidA derez, the Diplomatic Attache at the cuban

Exbassy in Mexico. City, was born in approxinately 1912.

He liolds Cuban passport number D/167 and arrived in

mexico in April 1962.

He is single and resides at the

Hotel Agnes,

Saltillo 67

Mexico City. He is known to

be chier of

'the Cuban G-2 in Mexico.

Cubin intelligence ofiicer,

returned to Mexico on 16 April

196: to replace Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez for an unspecified

period o1 tina.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

