# 104-10113-10059

## Page 1

104-10113-10059

INTERVIEW PROCESSING SHEET

Subject: CONELN

Lucien

SECURITY INEARMATION

#505

ROUTING

Mu Hala

Advice roceived reveals that the subject person is scheduled

for oversees travol as indicated belor

Departure

Tito t

Dato 151/0K/95/

Grade

Offico &

Division

FOM, OSO

Cover

Re turn

5 to penise Papa

About Nor 1952

PRELIMINARY PROCESSING

I review of this iTle and the above Information reveals:

No spooial briefing topfos

See below

srecint cover problems

See below

io spucial dobriorings by oscor

squires debriefings un (as cirabd)

SI & CRYPT

No spocial badgos or credentials or !

See remarke

Subject stated that Douglass DeVilt Bazata nho Jeft OSS Ia 1945 is living with the

Baron and Baroness Mum in their castle in Johannesburg Germany. Bazata, who is without

visible means of support travels in France, Belgiun, Switzerland, Spain and Germagyver)

INTERVIET - O7 the indicated dato subjoo uns interried on the following poista:

2.

"curity rogulations in gororal.

Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).

Cover Story (nature of cover; adoquacy of prior brieflagi possibility of

Inconsistencies; briefing of spouse)

Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, oredit aocounts, forward-

Ing of mail).

Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in lettore to and from subjoct)

Personal Conduot (a. general food behavior, b. no bleok market or currency

transactions, c. no undue ouriosity In natives in his ares, d. no attenpts

to approach or identify other CIA persomel in aros except for official

businoss and througn official channels).

6: =0-hor

Other Iravel (only official travel in or through soviet controllod aross).

ACTION

V Security briefing by the undersigned

complotos action nocessary in this case.

The following wore obtained from

subject and forwarded appropriately

for disposition®

SECRET

Subject was reforred to the follow.

ing for the indicatod addtional

briefing?

Subject was permitted to rotain the

zitt

By Botage 2519195)

---

