# 104-10216-10013

## Page 1

104-10216-10013

**

32556

„BO NOT MENONE TAN PREERINCE

PRINCERAL APS TALLOW COM TO CABLE $

MIMOVE BUPPONTINO DOCUMEATI

«THATCH FOR 68 CHARACIANS TO A LINE INCULON SPACES DO NOT ENCELO THIS IMITATIOR

MESSAGES ARE CONSIDERIO SOUTHE UNLESS A MIGNIN FRECEDANCE IS DICATIO IN THE 1000E 5500 LAN

A ALIGN FIRST LETTER IN THIS BOX.

TYPE THE WORD ALIGN" TO REGISTER HERE PALEER

CUTGCING NESSAGE

asto

• BE

OMF D

0

СЛАВАРИСАРЮВ

SUE SEAL MARAMS MANCATE

E SHARE O6AA

STAFF

CONF:

0

Бати-r a0u

EITE

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

go

to antel

DISSEM BY:

TO:

PRIORITY

INFO

REF:

27132 1IN 137861#1

DO JORGE ROBRENO MARIEGES (201-07516393, PREVIOUSLY

ENCRYPTED IDEN A. WHITE, 16O LBS, 5'8", ROUND FACE, BROWN EYES,

BLACK HAIR: NICKNAME "EL MAGO. "

2. REPORTED BY DIFFERENT SOURCES TO BE LAWYER AND/OR

AGRICULTURAL ENGINEER. REPORTEDLY MEMBER Z6TH JULY MOVEMENT PRIOR

OVERTHROW BATISTA REGIME, SUBSEQUENTLY BECAME CAPTAIN IN REBEL ARMY -

AND ACHIEVED NOTORIETY AS TRIBUNAL JUDGE RESPONSIBLE FOR

SENTENCING AND EXECUTION OF ANTI-REGIME CUBANS AND SOME AMERICANS.

DESCRIBED AS DRUNKARD, BRAWLER, WIFE BEATER, FREQUENTLY IN

DIFFICULTIES WITH POLICE, AUD INVOLVED IN NUMBER OF SHOOTINGS AND

1961

KILLINGS. IN ESE WAS REPORTED BE ROWING COMMISSIONER ISIC) FOR

INDER ECUBAN SPORTS AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION INSTITUTE: IN MAR 62.

LAWYER AT BANCO NACIONAL DE CUBA: AS DE LOU b3, CHIEF OF AFRICAN

COUNTRIES SECTION, DIRECTORATE DE CONEFiTAL POLICY, MINISTRY OF

FOREIGN TRADE.

3. IN MAY 64 RECEIVES

'HEM IDEN B AND SERVED AS

DATE: СОПИТОВНИЙ

UNIT:

EXT:

от уной чніфм!

---

## Page 2

= DATAL AND YELLOW COT TO CALE $

CONDO CHAEL USARA ALLO AY POTUE TAB OURS COONOMATION AND MALRASE ON TO MARAGE BEAN

MIMOVE SUPPONTING DOCUMENTs

BET MANOR FOR-SO SHARACTERS TO A LI. _ACLUDNO SAACES DO NOT ENCEO TOUMITATON

MESSAGES ANE CONSINOLO ROUTE UNLESS A MGHER PRÉCEDENCE IS MDICATED I THE ADDRESS A ENE

ALIGN FIRST LETTER IN THIS BOX.

TYPE THE WORO "ALIGN" TO REGISTER MERE → ALACR

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CANTIN USE DALE

€00

OMF 0

CLANMMILATION

0

D

81668

2

2

MESSAGE MANSIONS PENCATON

con

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DISSEM BY:

0

No MORE

0

ma Turn to PER

0 -028

#

CONMO MAN FOR IDEN C. HAS BEEN IN EXILE SPAIN SINCE 64. IN MAR 65.

AFTER BRAWLING WITH SPANISH POLICE, AGREED COOPERATE SPANISH

INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. SUSPECTED OF BEING ONE OF "FINGERMEN

RESPONSIBLE FOR WARNING CUBAN GOVT OF IDEN B'S PLOT AGAINST FIDEL

CASTRO. AMONG FOREIGN MINISTRY PERSONNEL CUBA, SUBJ DEPICTED AS

CIA AGENT:

AT LEAST TWICE HAS SOUGHT U.S- RESIDENT VISA BUT REQUESTS

DENIED.

4. SECOND WIFE, SONIA PERLA GIL. WELL KNOWN CUBAN SHOW

GIRL• FATHER CARLOS ROBREN O DEUPY, CUBAN, NEWSPAPERMAN.

RESIDERS NYC.

S. RE REF PARA FOUR, IN VIEW HIS APPARENT CHRONIC INSTABILITY

HQS INCLINED DOUBT SUBJ WARRANTS USARSO INTEREST IN MAINTAINING

CONTACT, BUT DEFER WHA

AND

FOR CONCLUSIVE JUDGEMENT.

Do FILE:, 201-0751639. EZ IMPPET.N

#REQUESTED TRACES SUBJ WHO IN CONTACT WITH USARSO G-2 PANAMA.

DATE:

bE JAN 74

ORIG:

PAULETTE DANCY:NE

UNIT:

WH/2/P

EXT:

1868

C/UHD

a0190110k00

WH/COC. 00

E/IB/S

coowrdi.

... ....

C/WH/2

AUTHEETICAIINA OFTIRE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

......

DO MOT MINOVE TAO PRFERENCE MATERIAL MIY DE STAPLED ONLY TO THE TAS DURING COORDIMATION ANIS RI

ORONAL AND YILON COPY TO CAbLE SECT

HE SUVE SUAPONTINO DOCUMENTS

SET MARCHI FOR SO EMATACTERS TO A LINE.

-UDINO SFACES

DO NOT EXCEED THIS LIMITATION

MESSAGES ARE CONSIDERED POUTINE UNLESS A KIGNER PRECEDENCE I INDICATED IN THE ADDAESSEMI INES

- ALIGN FIRST LETTER IN THIS BOX.

TYPE THE WORD "ALIGN' TO REGISTER HERE

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIONAL CENTER USE ONLY

COE

ACT

авоо

OMF

CHABSNICATION

0

0

SA BRO MARRIE ROCATOR

1ASAG

STAFF

CONF:

BATE-TIME BROUS

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

0

0

80 w0ts

^.;;

ASE OF THE MESSAGE SEN

DISSEM BY:

TO: PRIORITY

REF: DIRECTOR -

INFO

WH/

IDEN A - AMLASH-2

IDEN B - AMWHIP-IL- AN EXILED CUBAN JEWELER RESIDENT NYC.

TDEN C - AMLASH-I-G

ESPER REBEL ARMY MAJOR.

IMPRISONED FOR PLOTTING TO ASSASSINATE CASTRO. EZ IMPDET-N

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

Ib JAN 74

PAULETTE DANCY: ME

WH/2/P

3B68

C/UHD

E/IB/5

C/WH/2

---

