# 104-10114-10015

## Page 1

104-10114-10015

SECRET

"6. Marah 1963

06

DORANDIE FORS

ATTENTION

FusecT

50/3, Mr.

03

Total sent of Past 05100 Taotlty 1n Hon

for City 1a thoram

06

1.

Thie satorandus vili corne to confiña thin offdoni tarbal

York City In thomans of

roquet of 5 Mageh 1963 that e pont offlesher ho ostebilabld in lag

nad 'Nigul DIAz: Ienigun lintid

an conaddronsãa ¿ the purpose of thia box 1a to rapport the cover.

story of, the four, co addronage that they roside in Her Jork, Outy.

The mar

tofistored with RID.

offlod bot has beencopondd in lou Jork Gety

advinod this date that the following post

au requested in paragraph

18 P. O. Boxer

Shurch Street Station,

" Jork B, How lork.

box will be servided on à dally baulo.

ozon with the roturn address ort

All mall roceived at this bar in the nans of

→Mlard, Plorida,

will be opened and the contente, which will be proparly addresced,

will be ponted in low lork City. Mall recaivod for uny one of. the co

addrossees vill be put in another envelope and salled to lit. Jack Bauman,

Box!

_Portino Station, Minal 57, Plorida.

Lo. Any Inqu1r1os should to dirooted to M. P. LAMENCE, SAB/DeCurIty,

ext. 5909.

150.3.409

BON ARD

"Chief, sar/3uppo

253233.

SEGRET a

livin

Excladed lica astasalle

do po'lay and

1an*199

1z/R

---

## Page 2

SECRET

don reglotred, firat class and af mily-bearing the

abore addreas on a return address, may be miled by you at may

conventent letter bor in the area where this facility 1n estab

Ished. Registered mil and parcel post should be fourded

to this Office for secure mailing, Any mall having apecial

security significance should be coordinted sith this Office

prior to malling.

Hail bearing the above address as a return

address should not be handled by the Central Hell Roos.

5. It to requested that you advise thie Office when the

above addrens Is no longer of use to you. May inquirien concerning

this facility would he aireeted to the s0/3 nask of this office,.

Room CE T3 Headgurter, extension 6851.

FOR THE 2

IDIOR CE BECURIPY:

Metor. R. White

CC:

4256 385

#115 532

#253.333

02

11 March 1963/PENDING

BEGAL

---

## Page 3

1923.32

'HEADQUARTERS

DATE

TO

Speci

SUBJECT

Case: No.

ESTABLISH

ADD

CO- ADDRESSEE

CANCEL

OTHER

SPECIAL

IOSTRUCTIONS

tge9A X%.Cherse

E.

SI 3

TYPE OF

P.O. BOX ACTION REQUESTED

•ONHOLDER

CO• ADDRESSEE

@ MAR 1963

REFERENCE

3 Mom 2089

LOCATION OR BOX- BAS

SERVICING SCHEbULE

#UBHAT

INTERIN

#EPOM

DOC- FINAL

REPORT BY (Date)

50t 1a

to 2.

ADI/105 1024,

ASST/TOS

RÉPORT ON P.O. BOX SERVICE

• TERM

REPORI CATEGORY

TO:.

chief, -Investigative Division

¿ COURITEO ACTION ACCOMPLISHED

c/:.

C/I?

C7519

C/S B

150-2

C8 8,

4355

303

532

06

(333

293

вож но.

6 Barch 2553/8526011

AATS

FILES

Forfite& 253233

$ 80

1784

AUDEN

DATE

•ACTION ACCOMPLISHED BY (NOMO)

CITY

13/1/653

AGRIT IN CHA

Á GE

4 81

---

## Page 4

4253233

HEADQUARTERS

DATE

TO

* SUBJECT:

perin Arent be charge

06

Case No.

203 893

ESTABLISH

ADD

CO- ADDRESSEE

CANCEL

E

SB/3

TYPE OF P.O. BOX ACTION REQUESTED

NAME OF BOXHOLDER

Subject

CO- ADDRESSEE

6 MAK 1963

REFERENCE

HAgs• telephonie

roguest

5 March 1953

LOCATION OF BOX 345

Church Street Statior

Eas York E, How You

SERVICING SGHEDULE

C

SUBMIT

OTHER

INTERIM REPORT

0OC- FINAL

REPORT BY (Date)

D

06

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Mall received fa the name of

reture address Ob

Pasta the

chould be openej ses

the contents, shich lase be proporly addressod, should be posted 1a lor Yor.

envelopa and mated to tre go airs

DDS/IOSreturz address of

ARte/ToS fochments:

06

| Control Cards

ASE.TYOS

REPORT ON P.O. BOX SERVICE

C/ REPORT CATEGORY

INTERIM

FINAL

TO:

Seniel, Investigative Division

BATE RÉQUESTED ACTION ACCOMPLISHED

roperrine Station

PAUL T. AUDEN

DATE

ACTION ACCOMPLISHED BY (Name)

NAME

C/12

C73X2

C/S B

258-3

BOX NO.

CITY

STATE

'cc :

03

$256

385

$115

#253

532

233

Bw/6 March 1953/PINDING

13:24

To 316/63

GETS

1EILES

forfite a 153233

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

FORM

11 - 60

1784

(38)

---

## Page 5

14-00000

D

4253233

SECHEI

12-4WAR 1923

ATTENTIC

FRO

SUESEE

: Hoard j. FlasTa, C/SAs/support

: Daputy Disectes of scurity (Investigations

ani Qgeraldul suypart)

LETTER ADDRESS

4283 893

esty in the none os

TALE VILI COMPArI adviCe furnished yow Offlee on 5 March

1963 that the reguaatod addrcas lus been entabilated as Pollars:

DDS/IOS

ADDS/ IOS

ASCT/IOS

Added as coyidrassees

are

and Miguel DIA-ISALGIE®

3. Tole esdress

vill be maintainal for an inacfinite perio

as tim: ani m1l receipts vill be baniled in the falloing sanes:

C .

1a1a receiva: in the name oi

with tire

return addrese o?

Fend, Florida will Bo

openad ari the contentu tales vill be properly budressed,

Ra12 recesved for the coaddrensees will be put in another

envalope and

milod tO 1E- JaaS BALMA, P. 0. Boss

Perrine Station, Niem 57, Morida. The envelope vill be

esst air enti and boar the retura sadroso of

NOTE

C

C/S

B

15D-3

A&TS

FILES

Arfile 7253233

---

