# 104-10213-10087

## Page 1

11041021310087

•.

"i".

11-3686

MEMORANDU FOR: Director of Ceniral Intelligence

FROM

: John H. Waller

Inspector Geceral

SUEJECT

: Washingion Star Siory, 1 Octaber 1976

1. This is fur jour information only.

2. On 1 October 1976 the Washington Star published a rers

story with an Associated Press crecit line, headliner CLA

Viewed Oswald As Iniormation Source (copy altached).

Contrary to sworn testimosy, the ClA Once con-

sidered using presidential assassia Lee Harvey

Oswald as a source of intelligence information

about the Soviet Union, according 1o a newly.

n sworn testimony before the Warren Commission

ormer CIA Director Richard Helms said the

gency never had "or even contemplated" as

Intacts with Ossual

The news story, in another section, made the following

statement:

The November 35, 1963, menio explained that

the Agency's interest in Oswald as a potential

intelligence source was due to his "unusual

behavior in the USSR, " to shich ho had defected

in 1959.

tch +11-84079400

---

## Page 2

3. There was such a memorandurs, written by & case

officer then stationed in Par', recently released wider FOlA.

Writing three days after Pre: dest iscuredy's assassination,

this casc officer recalled that their had beer interest in Oswald.

As soon as I had heard Oswald's name, I recalled

that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had dis-uss.i .

sometime in the summer of 1960 -- with the tren

Chief and Deputy Chief of the S Rismarch sarion

the laying on oi interview (s) through ta 0l4 or

other snitable channels . .

I remember that Oswald's unusual behavior in i:e

USSR had struck me from the moment I had reid

the first ODACID dispatch on him, and I told my

subordinates something aricunting to "Don': push

too hard to get the information se need, because

this individual look. ord. "

• ¿ • • I do not know what action developed there-

after

4.

The Helms testimony before the Warren Commission

on this subject was as follows:

ME. Helms. On Mr. McCone's behalf, I had all

our records searched to see if there had bees

ny contacts at any time prior to President Kennedy'

ssassination by anyone in the Centril Intelligenc

Agency with Lee Harvey Oswald. We checked our

card files and our personal files and all our records.

Now this check turned out to be negative. In addition

I got in touch with those officers who were in' position:

of responsibility at the times.

in question to see il

anybody had any recollection of any contact having

even been suggested with this man. This also turnes

out to be negative, so there is no material in the

Central Intclligence Agency, either in the records or

in the mind of any of the individnals, that there was

any contaci had or even contemplaied with him.

= 2.

shard. stroke for an

... . ....

---

## Page 3

3

5. Mr. Helms did

state exactly the words quoted in the

news story -- "or even contemplated." But the contest of

those words was what was reported to him as the result of

a search of records and memories. To this day those

lamiliar with the extensive Oswald records state that there

is no reflection in those records tha: anyone even undertoo!:

to propose or approve a

contact with Oswald. It rould have

been natural to do so, but apparently any such thoughts did

not progress to formal action. From the Inemorandum

quoted, it is apparent that someone at Branch level id think

about it, even if nothing ever came of it. This hardly con-

stitutes a responsible or official or serious "contemplation"

of the idea. Mr. Helms' full statement on this point seems

literally corcect in the full context of his statement, although

more refined qualifications might have reiterated the basis

for his concisions. The news story is misicading on this

point.

6. The news story statement that Oswald was considered

due to his "unusual behavior in the USSR, " is exactly the

opposite of the statements of the quoted memorandum, which

reported the care that should be used if Oswald were approached,

because of his strange conduct.

7. The statement in the news story about Mr. Dulles

consulting with Agency personnel on how to answer questions

is basically true.

The interpretation to be placed on this

courseiling will depend on the interpreier. The infercace of

the news story is that Mr. Dulles was counselling slanted

responses on the Oswald issue, thereby tending to reinforce

the interpretation of deception attributed to Mr. Helms.

Let Bala

Sona i. valer

Attachment:

As Stated

Cc: DDCI #/atts

DIG:Se3reckinridge: js (P 1407) & Cetorer 1975

Distriberich:

Prig :lairs - iuiresses"

listasts - DSCI

1:/n215 - Er.

lilasts - I: Cirno

- 3=

l pates

S83 Sireno

ian, 6, 1001, matter no

---

## Page 4

VATICLE APPRUD

Document Contradicis Jestimoiny

CIA Viewed Oswald

As Imormation Source

Aranciates fries

Contrary ta, sworn testimony, ie

CiA once considered using presider-

lial assassia iCe

o?

arrey Oswald 23a

intelligence

• iniormanen

abouR Lee Soviet Unior.

according su:

a nerly released Cli cocument...

2T6 S80ra

issumony

briore - the

ission.

leomera, Cal

Directo:

Richard

Helms

said

"cr even

contem

plated" zai coziaces tria Ossala.

released

Prison by an saidentlied CiA office.

these dogs 21:95

President John F.

Kenariy was kilied in Dallas on Noo.

23, 1953,

"ewe showad intel

lizenes interesa

in Oswald anil "Lis

cussed i.

Be syngen

Tiers

views."

The unidentified olfier: socer lass

*¿ elo no: Inoa

whacachan develoged

• THE SEYO HAS ASIONG hur

deds o! pagesi ci. Cocuments frera

the Clash

The

rarial gas;released io Ice

Associated Press jesierday-Laver

the Frontamo! Lo malias Aci

nd= jocument reveals

former Sit Director Aller

Dulles..

While sarring as 2 member. of Mis

Wares Commission, privalssy. 60.r-

saled CLl diacials on ine Best say ta

inster cuestions-from the commis-

Sio:

Basa Cited:+0909-91001

Duites

inuggi language®

'shiel

made it diaz. that Lee Harre; C3

wall was roger an employe or areal

an unide-'i

Tied CIA oricer troke Helms in Apeil

1954.

=5.

air"

"I agora wieh hima laat a carefully

• phrased craial of the charges of it-

Vorari riza Ossaki seemed mos!

Pedaled sies

•"Ilhen he appeared balere ibe cora-

mission ia Mlay- 1951, Lielms,

head

ol. the

thea

agency's. clacdestine

there's no material in ira Contani

Incligenes Agency,. either in thei

recares or in the mind of any o. the

incivicurs that there. was any cor.

tact har er even coratemplated wil

Oswald.

• TIE 10% 2, 1653, meng explain:

that the agency's interest in Oswall

15 & potorilal intelligence source was

sue 1o his "unusuai bravive in los

USS?," lu shich ha had deiscied is

95...

"We were particularly interested

in the (deleied) Oswald mizai p:o.

vide on tae winsk facorg in waich he

had been empiyed, on cerisia seco

tions ol lie Cisy lisell, and of coarse

thought lie usual (deleied) chal

might naig develop (celeted) persos

aliy Lossics" Le memo states.

The mamo indicates. tha: Ostaid

was also oi interest to the. CIA. be

cause of concern thap his Sessie

• bora vile, Marina, might have bean

-part el a tread for Soviat women tal

marry foreigners, leave Lhe conta

and staila overseas where they could

servees sales. -

THE MEND ADCUE REagercy's

inleres. In Oswald said the discus-

sions a30g! Osmaid securred-"some

time in summer. 1050. The aucharg

continued: "i con"t recall it this was

discussed vile Oswald and his famil

ly sere ca route to our country or il it.

wis after teirarrival."

-@'д а"м" бади

---

## Page 5

ONF

0

D

susane cente duss ord

, 0.

D

D

191-

G

STAFF

bAt619++ 448169700

8A+8-94086500200

0200462

DIRECTOR

CONE: C/SS:3 INFO: FILE DUS,

C/VEL, DDO/DO, C/PEG?

arosantl 8848080660990868

922257

DiSSENEY: 45

0

As 04088

0 PITUATO

PaA

so 84. 858

TO: IMMEDIATE

UNINTEL RYBAY

DO 1P WIRE STORY IN LASHINGTOE STAR ON FOLA RELEASE OF GSUALD'S

MATERIAL MANES FOLLOWING STATEMENT, UHICH YOU SHOULD BE GUARE, T

4)

aRUTE: IN SUORM TESTIMONY BEFORE THE UARREN COMMISSION,

RICHAD HELMS, THEN A BRANCH CHIEF AND LATER CIA'S DIRECTOR,

SAID THE AGENCY NEVER HAD OR EVEN CONTEMPLATED ANY CONTACTS

; UITH OSUALD... NEULY RELEASED DOCUMENT, SAYS UE SHOVED II!

TELLIGEHCE INTEREST IN OSUALD AND DISCUSSES... THE LAYING ON

OF INTERVIEUS! END QUOTE. y

MATERIAL

-2• ABOVE MISCONSTRUED FROM SANITIZED

I RELEASED UNDER FORM-

ERITTEN BY FORMER OFFICER UHO WAS INTERESTED IN POSSISLE USEFUL IN-

FORMATION OSWALD MIGHT HAVE IN CONTEXT OF SOVIET REILITIES: IN

RESPONSE TO DCI CALL TO ALL HANDS TO RECORD HATEVER THEY NOUGHT

MIGHT BE RELEVANT TO BARREN COMMISSION INTERESTS, OFFICER UROTE THIS

THE CHEN DOES RECORD BRANCH LEVEL DISCUSSION BUT STATES FAT

URITER DOES HOT KNOU UNAT ACTION LAS TAKEN. E-2, INDET-

DATE:

OES CHAS. BRIGGS: DCM

Urilt:

C/ISS

EXT: • 2595

CHRONO

•DEP

THEODORE GA,SWASKET ADD

B32A

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE LE PROHIBITED.

---

