# 104-10171-10223

## Page 1

104-10171-10223

SECRET

Auguet 1269

SHORANDUR PORE WILLPA

• Attentlone

Xies Tharpe

Unrobolved JH31

Probloma ro ladco.

lo ihen "il Grupon arrires in Madeo Ita Mrat probion will be to.

sot up, so soon as posalblo, a dally norapapar and a press relations offloe.

2o To succond the crupo u111 nood the asaistanco of station Maxico la

Improving the publle and polltical climate In Maich ant1-CAITRO people can

vork effectirely.

Jo A tremendous publicity driva should bo mado on the arrival of 121

Grepos in Maxdeo in order to croato the propur lnage of the MIL In Verdoo

and throughout latln Ineries

Do It la hopod that tre Huit and the station offioors will be able to

support and guêde Alida, uho dil be producing "al lundo in Edle", tdon

adil ostenaibly bo indeperient but actually vill be a pro-fRo nerepaper.

ANULIA MIll also be mating satirical, humorous radio tapor for broadcasting

over Radio: Swas jany holp that can ba plven to this endeavor vil be ercatty.

approclated.

DAVID A, PULLIPS

c/wil/h/Prop

Distributions

Or1ge & 1 - Addressoo

1 - 11e3. Tharpe

noid on on

RETURATO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

---

## Page 2

4-00001

| tolerhone taps/ nike Installation

ops data for FRI consumption,

Do Protoction (unilateral foon aquads) of ovort FIll membere va

CASTEO agent executive actlons.

24 =

"agent surveillants to check on security and loyalty

at overt/covert FRD sembers.

do

Seloction of secure safe sites for housing of FRI (overt &e covert

members) and selection of satisfactory office facillty for overt

FRD members.

Based on Station officers! knowledge of Mexico City and environs,

selection of covert meeting sites.

?. that are Modean Goverarent capabilities in terma of protection of

overt FRI) membera against CASTRO agent executive action operations?

Jo What would be the channol of comunicatlons between the Station

and the BINDER Group representatives?

Can the Station cormunication facilitles (pouch and cable) be used for

secure FRD communications ietween the members in Mexico and those In

the U.s, and elsewhere?

2/00

---

