# 104-10163-10089

## Page 1

104-10163-10089

CEC

ROUTING AND RECOND SANIT.

13-035:11

ICm: Fuch Ellirt

DID/FIO/ PAO

91j Kej Blog

DATE

LATERERON

Tio

3767

ONCIES

PERIALS

1i-363/82

8 VIE: B78

Braidelung

1.

¡FORWARDED

DDO/ISS/IP/EIS

GALO

rigs

3.

This DOD file has bean provided

on loan; we would avureciate its

return as soon as it has served

your purpose.

Please HAbil CARRY.

10.

11.

Ruth Elliff

DCD/FIO/PAO

913 Key Bldg

1a.

610 "SEATINOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

L. UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECURITY

---

## Page 3

+- 8-13-02-60

SECRET

S

SECRET 24ISSEZ CITEL

ecurity

CONTACTS/WASMINGTON

ATTVE SERVICES STHORNED AND INT DIVE

a 24 11 45

32

1130360

SUBJ& CASE 47648 • REINTERHOGATION OF MANGEL CARTIMES

REF& VASHINGTON 92483

lo SINCE THIS CASE ORIGINATIO BY INTERNATIONAL DIV/CUBA,

SUOGEST YOU DISCUSS THIS CONFLICT OF INTEREST WITH T

20 WE HAVE BEEN FULLY AWARE OF THE CLANDESTINE/ARTIME

RELATIONSHIP SINCE BEFORE THE SAY OF PIGS.

TRIAS MERELY

INTERROGATED ARTINE ON A RUUTINE PROCESSING AT ORA JACKAL

SECRET

BT

OK-Men

SECHET

3.1gg and

812744:

---

## Page 4

Te #

5020-66

ast.

-26,25

Hageitt-

(Artime) Bueco, Tramel 7

ві рів. бо ві

out

20

---

## Page 5

14-00000

ROUFIID

23 Nny 1966

1510

72463

ACTABTI

THCTAM YYRCR(ENNVICHEATHORHIB)

BXB1

AFSTDES JOURERA, MATUEL T.

REPO A.) CABE AYSDO

D.) EBCURITE NCRBACE 19560

Secarity

WHt'

do VW ANS LAPCRIGD EE UN/CUEA TAT SUNJECT HAW BETI OU EYEREY TO

THY CUSES FER THE PME TIVS OR ALX JIARE. HE IN JUTG PAID A COMBTDERA

ANCRAU AII A RANUTAN NCAPNTN HAESS. WH/CUZA FIKZA MY INNY NCCHLNECP

A PROBTIL IP ICS OCITTHUNS TO CONRACE.

S. FIRAE ADVIIR IT YOU WIHE UN TO AIT

IPP NO COCZATHUES YOUR CURR

cOn

BAAIVAN

mitercent

5=25-66

1 40 PH 'GS

---

## Page 6

14-00000.

A1497:

113.I20S

1282s

SEGRET.

13-02-65

(227A8)

8) CARE 47340

111.30260

NE HAVE COURTIATE WE DE

NATIONAR INVITER

CIA AND HIP. TRICOTI

SHAT HY L

C ALL ITLE IS BEIVED, IP IN CNCEL YOUR MINST

S

curi

Osinia

%. Thome

SECURITY LECEICAGEG

SEGRETS

FACTOR SOCI AUTOMATIC

INOFAEIAO 4ED

---

## Page 7

M2539

SECRET

1: 2.052.60

Cher, Paperm

Mractor, Domestle Cortect Benvion

(servicen livision)

A 130260

= Cancallation

On Bignes for Alien Sleeurity Coats Dated 6 ity 1966

85 May 1966

ahnate en tabjoe..

Do ни том

MeS, Barvicos Diesado

Security

SECRETU

---

## Page 8

14-00000

A6 MAX 1965

Mianic (Triao)

case 17640 - sullivan

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

BUB'' CT O LAST NAME - FINSY NAME - MIDDLE NAME

ALIASES

Artize Buesa, Manuel P.

FULL NAME DR SPOUSE DATE AND PLIE

13-52-40

winTH.

• CITIZENSMP

RESIDENCES (including Ma, and Street, Jone, RV.D., dte.)

COMPLETE ADDRESS

Mani, Florida

„но.""

S. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

• 20008

T. SEX" S. CITIZENEHIP

Born • Cube

Cubar

CONTINUES

EMPLOYANT

1962

Present

COMPLETE ADDRESS

Employed In ant1-GOC activities In US and Latin Amerien

[ CONTINUED

#DUCATION (Miah school, collage, erecto sa worts, sta.)

19. ADDITIOn

FERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING PULL NAME. CITIZENSNIP DATA

Former Gradunte Medical Doctor

30

Frequent: travel to Cuba and Dominican Republic.

2313

7947-X

2211%

Lu Continure

ON PANINTO ANO CHILOREN.

OS MAY 18€C

PORN 100 MAN PIEVIOUS

ROITIONA

LI CONTINURO

82.471

---

## Page 9

in 4-60000

13-02.60

RR 0219

DE 0592/16 1301488

•6 XXXXX

R101530L

BT

XXXXX

TUO ZERO SEVEN WA

Mer 19 10 35 80'E6

CONTIDENTI AL TOTO BZISSOT

VA CITE MIAN 1462

: ATTA& SERVICES DIV (THORNL)

SUBJS MANUEL F. CARTINES BUISA

A-130260

PD03%

39 JA: 1532, MORON, CARAGULY.

COUTI DENTIAL

CEN 146E MANUEL E ARTIAL BUESA PUOG 29 JAN 19:2 MORON NAMAGUEY

pa -51214)

-510-t06

she 7.

l Daci dud iron auteatio

daragraing and

---

## Page 10

13:05.60.

_6 Hay 3960...

chiet,

ALTOSISN

NETIRRIC

CAER 47600

A. 130260

Seculty crea vili bo ro plotos.

urit

all plnen of harta noon

Faents gase

Austinse

"Theris

• COPI

IDOXOLNO TRO

AUTORITIC DOSTRADINE

---

## Page 11

14/90000

ALAI

wntitie

KUSEL FP TETME BIESA

11a31, 10:11a

dbjü2a60

BESINESS:

".?" ÷:

Allon N0o. 13 302 724

$053VA424

0:75.20/91/25

18178A28 Qu i, NI

---

## Page 12

14100000

CONFESTE

DCD- 263/78

$ March 1978

MENORANDUN FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS

FROM

: Ruth Elliff

DCD/FIO/PAO

SUBJECT

: House Select Committee on Assassinations

Request (OLC 78-0351/1)

REFERENCE : DCD-211/78, 24 February 1978°

1.

DCD material on some of the individuals listed in

subject memorandum has already been

furnished under cover

of referenced memorandum.

Attached is the material on the

remainder of the individuals listed:

a Manuel ARTIME - Material for retention and

file A-13-02-60.

b.

Dominick E. BARTONE - Material for retention

(material also mentions Frank STURGIS).

20%

* *77.

Sam BENTON - Material for retention and

file A-18-87-88.

d. Dino CELLINI - Material for retention.

e.. E. Howard HUNT - F11e A-18-17-98.

f: Michael McLANEY - Case 49673

Joseph Raymond MEROLA - Matcrial for retention,

file A-09-=3-49 and case 40198.

Sergio A. TTIl - Reference is nade to Nr. Smith

in DCD cas: 49364.

This case consists of six

volumes of files denling with the Garrison

Investigation forwarded under DCD-185/78. of

17 February (in response to OIC 78-0070/4).

Polin te

B2 IMPDET

CL. BY

5R6090

WARNING RONGE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENICE SOUNGE

AND METHODS INVOLVED

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 13

74-00000

15-02.60

25 Septeaber 1975

ICHORADO! FOR:

SCTJICT

Spectal Asafecent to the DDO

1 22 September 1975 Senata Select Concitted request fos

Files

•In order to preciudo confusion, folloular, 1e en updatco susary o

tho DCD flies listod under paIriraphs I and Il af subjeet roguest:

Io Organtestional Illca

4120

1) Tuterustional Telephone aud Telesteph

ITT Sululdl5rsen

Gulf ost corporation.

Culd Fubalaaries

$54

25

40+

23

21

211/5,95

Suca Cornestion lille contains only

referenco to Jinitel LCD concoct with

I sepresentativa of the corporation's

Eughen liclicunter. Division)

5)

Iatesaasional Intellirence, Inc.

Tan Aerican

Airvays

A1R9÷0}

>A8339:

Il. Individual, Isler

1). Howard Euphes Clo Indientirn of ved contacts

I document vith o reference to him)

2)

3)

4)

5)

99199431

A51677

Ho

"Kobert Vasco

Dio Indication of LCD contacte

-ITe conta is query recoived in liew York

pertainins to Vocco, one roqueat to obtain

A172207

backaround data for O/S Station on Invecter

Ovorseze Service frem Dur and Eradatreat

and JOTh neerandem prociding this Infor

Esthen to cir: Ianpector Gcneral.)

6 Muan Talone Coting later Civan 10649

A850

7)

larolo 1, Guiser Co Indicatios of DC)

ahout 15% polley with rifarrucas to Conean) A 959? 1

20 c

and in

---

## Page 14

CLAJICT: 12 Sepiu-bor 1975 Senato Seleer Conaltree Regueoz for Filem

A1075i3

1

• Ho

Ja'ses S.-Calden

10)

kobert Peruuith Bloontield, Com.

cotact: orob:sly not the iriividu

of cenate Intcrast)

AIEI79N

SALUiNO InBtTUCEIONS TO: tO CAlL

with Dust 1! Contacted ty li9; 1974

toletype sumarling a il loct artiela

. .

on liunt; and a 1974 resorandun to tio IG

numerielng action talen pre-liatorgato to

fiud post retirreme ceployeene for lunto)

12)

Eemerd Lo Baster (to Indication of UCI

-Coalacti only I 10ll menorandua seporting

17181871

In segati:a to IC inquiry and and 1974

nerorandum lesuine Inetructione not to

talt wich farker 1f contacted.)

13)

14)

15)

16)

Lugendo R. Martines (Sane es larkor)

AVElS 7.2

(Sama da Larler)

Manuel Artino

A/3ú24.0

17)

Ne do lanlston siri

Innetive

(daing recalled)

Ne

18) "jock Anderson do Indieation of DOD

coutace; file containa only a fou

erchanges of correapondeace brasing

A161.332

on various Anicroon colume end a

record of one lead passed on ly

Anderson's'ofiica which DCD puraued.)

19)

Lea Peanington

20)

Charles Wiley (Cile 1a en Charles W1111mm

Vlay, a Irca lance writer vio contaciod

Ele dashington Ilold Olfica In 1970 and

No

1

A157375

19720)

-Distribution:

Orig & 1 Addresoco

1 = C/DCD SSC File

- Control

- C/DCD Chrono

pl:

CENTESTAL

---

## Page 15

F

13-02-60

hol. Italmon stes?, Oca

Caser, Internationnl Dirleton, DEs

Shigment of 03 Producta de Caba vim Endor

talas do Majeres)

25• rong 2966

Manuel. Antime

A 130.260

do reganited la Camarsa Lottes 8483 3o180-23, a reportementito el

than arston entiod on the somoe et L

to doterais 18 20

Dela tla Modoo, Dos dosion una expatative and planned tHes tha linterel

taten os tha information da surlonely pronicad en la ralent, int une

mbro to mepis prelste dotalle, Ils best intert ins esty « entame?

entllar und a elala 1'as mey ladividal Dano sado lote as norse callo

ana mestlmery Do Cola et si 100 par ones profst.

678 16003

1 л

SOM

33

ORATIAL

---

## Page 16

Dirneter, Danacle Contact Berrlea

AT 8 Millen Vaghe

Chief, Mant Mold Offten

19 May 1966

ADI - 181-46

Shipmone ol 11 Producco to Chho v10 Marteo

* Cane 47660

1130060

1. La response to reterenced cano, 8. Aconta called on Manuel Pa

Artial Dunno on 10 May 60. Artino lo the sourca de

a to also voll knova indond to the clandestine servicea.

it was very

cooperative and plood with the intamos cotta on the lommelon proulde.

by him on the subjoet.

towawat, le wie anable te mumply arcelfle detail.

nd bla boot affort une a senral outline and a clola that many Individuala

have mudo lore of moony pollies meninary to Cabo at a 100 per came profit.

The caly loctent ha afocused, lo sonoral terms, von a shimmut

al huntend produce and unshinery allegaddy purchased by the tasteratty

•1 Mendeo and lator cold to the COC. Artine claime to have had copius ol

the Invoteen somming the oneiro erannetisa, Me aloe elatma that trono

doemnto voro turned over to the Agansy apprentataly to youre 4o.

Doyed chia fnformedo, ho mo uablo to discmo chlo partientor situment

for there

a Nio poureo of lafermelon on shipusate fram the Da to Cabe ehroug

Mamtee Le I

Ontom nacional residing lo Mealeo on

ma, reproarim in the country: No preadied to minarel ble filos de

Mimmi and innieo lor entre coples of these lavoices or any ochar dormance

that my shorenttore his allegaitons.

le alne added that De. Alvares will

Do in Mient ln sho poor future, and ho mould arrange an Incorview besseen

Acosta mall

lla le penitivo chat De. Alvers will be sale to

provide the opoettle intor.

atton dealrad,

JUSTIN Y. CUBICHAUP

Lastaled iram autongll:

a1 T

---

## Page 17

14-00000

CORDLIAL

F-10984

13-62-66

Acking Chlel, Contser Divlalon

ATTH

19 May 1964

00A(8) 26604

Chlol, Mlast Plaid Ottlea

63) 5: 903,023

locese Travele

Lie Minded All TO

390194

181-13-02

Ia rocerde abo the tallowing:

ON 20 APESI ATtIMO MAS LaDuad do 10918 CypO Vill BOUd POE EYATA!

Bo Conta Ilca, Ulcaragul, and che Dunlalcon Hepablle.

to daparted fren

ILm on S May to for ManaguA, MicHrAgUA De LANiCA Plishe muDer 41S.

NO MENTA CO ChA US On lI MAy 6. NO filEt laforeton emilablo en

I am I2 May 60.

fun tata crip.

A rollable 16n8 ol1letal bas orally confirmed to e

the dote that Artino hao not in lact securond fron his laceni crip

JUSTIN Y. CLICHW

a 1/111910

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 18

14-00000

1:07-60

FEB

9 25 11 77

SE CRE T 07225TZ FEB 77 STAFF

CITE DIRECTOR 982834

TO LASIIANIAL

MIAMI INFO DCD/HEADQUARTERS•

RYBAT REAM

IN CONNECTION WITH A CURRENT CIVIL LAWSUIT WHICH IS

SCHEDULED FOR TRIAL IN TWO WEEKS, MR. BERNARD L. BARKER AND

MR • EUGENIO R. MARTINEZ ARE CROSSCLAIMING DAMAGES FROM THE

COMMITTEE FOR THE REELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT (CREEP). AS

PART OF THE PREPARATION OF THEIR CASE, IHEIR ATTORNEY:

MR. DANIEL E.

SCHULTZ, IS TRAVELLING TO MIAMI TO TAKE

DEPOSITIONS FROM THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS WHOM SCHULTZ

BELIEVES ARE PART OF

THE FLORIDA CUBAN COMMUNITY AND WHO

NE ALSO BELIEVES HAS HAD PRIOR ASSOCIATIONS WITH BHERALD.

SCHULTZ BELIEVES IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE PURPOSES OF

NIS CASE TO "CONFIRM THROUGH TESTIMONY THE FACT OF THEIR

ASSOCIATION WITH BKHERALD AND IN GENERAL, THE NATURE OF THEIR

ACI IVITIES AND THE SOURCE OF FUNDING FOR ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

WHICH THEY WERE A PART®.

SO THE INDIVIDUALS ARE AS FOLLOWSS

MANUEL ARTIME

A130260

DRO LOTS CONTE-AQUERO

VRO TAX LESHICK.

DEEDE5 - 101009

RENILDO BLANCO ME

PHE HONORABLE MANUEL REBOSO

302857

PEDRO DIAZ LANG.

H02S98

ANTONIO MICHEL MISS ROZSOO

MARCOS DIA LA

ALFREDO PORCES me

1:02901

4.

IN OUP WRITTEN RESPONSE TO MR.

DECLIMING

TO EITHER CONFIRM OR DENY ANY CONNECTION THAT THESE

INDIVIDLALS MAY YAVE MAD WITH BANERALE BUT POINT OUT THAT IF

A CONNECTION DID EXIST AND IF THE INDIVIDUAG WISHES, ME MAY

P92S93

202899

---

## Page 19

-180

PAGE 2 DIRECTOR 982834 SECRET

UCKNOWLEDGE THIS CONNECTION BUT WE STILL EXPECT HIM TO HOLD

TO HIS SECURITY AGREEMENT IF ANY EXISTED.

THIS LETTER, WHICH

WE EXPECT

SCHULTZ TO SHOW TO THE PROSPECTIVE WITNESSES, WILL

ALSO STATE THAT IF ANY FORMER ASSOCIATE WISHES GUIDANCE HE CALL

BHERALD (WE WILL NOT SPECIFY BUT PRESUME THAT CALL WILL

BE ON THE DOD LISTED LINES.

3.

DED MIAMI SHOULD TAKE A NUMBER WHERE WE CAN GET IN

TOUCH OR ASK THE CALLER TO CALL BACK THE SAME TIME IHE

FOLLOVING DAY. IN EITHER CASE, PLEASE CABLE HOS AS AGOVE

IMMEDIATE PRECEDENCE• EZ, IMPDEI®

SECRE

9c.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

antidential

FUNIGLLEGEG NASAGEROSE.

30

THRU:

(49)

VALIDITY

1. Z) CONFIRMED

7 PROBABLY TRUE

I PARTIALLY TRUE

DOUBTFUL

PROBABLY FALSE

CANNOT JUDGE

B.

(50) USABILITY / VALUE

1. LA GREAT

?.

MODERATE

SLIGHT

NOT USABLE

UNDETERMNED

C.

(51)

AVAILABLE FROM OTHER SOURCES

1. C NEVER OR RARELY

LOCCASIONALLY

OFTEN

(52)

TIMELY WHEN WRITTEN

1. CO TES

2.

(53)

TIMELY WHEN RECEIVED

- NO

(50 EVALUATOR'S RESPONSIBILITY

FOR SUBJECTS EVALUATED

1. CA PRIME RESPONSIBILITY

I..

STRONG INTEREST

CASUAL INTEREST

19 REPORTS) WAS IN RESPONSE TO A SICR

G.

(53). * ORGANIZATIONAL ELEMENT

ORIGINATED THE SICR

J YE

1 Hi

(56) SHOULD SICR BE CANCELLED?

# 1

[PREVIOUSLY CANCELLED

(97) HOW DID REPORTS) ANSWER SICRY

i PARTIALLY

PARTIALLY

[NOT AT AL

TALLATION

INS +H45 466-19149466

EiNDED DINER REFERENCE

1jand6

Pani s14

LCLA

AMALYST NOT!

Unless noted in REMARKS, craluation will be issuma to appry To trost yaoyerts

and Arcas foe shith the Evaluator's organszation has been assigned responso

bility, or, in lhe case of a SICR response mpon, the Esaluator's organization

mriginated the SICR end/or has been assigned SICR evaluation responsitility.

(OPTIOVAL: Phis evaluation applied to approrimately of the reporte).

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE ANALYST

Check ONE block anly)

3. (583

REMARKS (Vos dor oli cially goerong so

слалів)

1-1-1-1-0

Current information

on General Vomoza regarding

his health and motiration

For veeling the prev, dency

are of interert to thir

office especially an the

time approacher when General

vomaza must revign his

comminion. and become an

official candidate.

1170? 44.

БІЛАРІСЬ

EVALVATION E

'66

0X8589

DD, 8A4. 1480

A

gp 3

CinFidentral

FiNAL PROCESSING

COMPLETED BY

DIA

0-12169JAP-IC

---

## Page 21

INSTRUCTOAS

1. This for 1s designed lo measure collection response for all irpes ul Inteligrace Reporting excepi uber

wher means are designated by competent authonty.

I. TO:, THHU. For use in forwarding evaluations from Collection Minnagement, through interented inter

medinto Headquarters to the Collector. Addresses may be handwritten il legible. Formaning letters are nor

required

1 Items A brouch I apply 10 ALl repons. liems G throngh l are specifically keyed to monitoring of reporte

responding te SECRE

Item j (Remarka) in primarily for the Collector"s bemefil, but other appropriare

remars of interest to Collection Management may be included.

A second page may be used for remarts il

required Remarks should be aimed at improving luture collection.

A ROUTING AND DISTRIBUTION:

•. SICR response eraluations and assigned evaluatione:

(1) The dissemination center will complete the REFERENCE DATA BLOCK and forward live (9)

copies of the evnluation form together with the IR to the oremination designated lo perform the ovaluation.

I''OTE: The organization that originalod to SICR will nomelli bo a recipient.)

(3) The analyst will complete the form, detach the YELLOW copy and forward the remaining four (4)

copies to a central offico within his: ruduction center.

(3) The production center will forward the evaluation forma in four (4) copies, on a weekly bania to

DIA, ATTI: DIAAQ, Washington, D. C. 20301. .

(4) DIAAQ will detach the GREEN copy and forward the remaining three (3) copios to the appropriate

sorvier or agency who will make dintribution to the Collector and interested intermedinte Headquartera. The

copy retained by DIAAQ is for the DIA data base and SICR monitoring

D. Analys Initiative evaluatione will be handled in the same manner as outlined above, excopt the

annlyst munt complete the REFERENCE DATA BLOCK.

€. Unified and specified commands and those non- DOD agencles participating in the SICR program will

rochive livo (9) copies of the evaluation form altached to the report remponding to a SICR originated by the

agency/command and are required to complete the form, retain the VELLOW copy and forward the remainine

four (4) coples to DIA, ATTN: DIAAQ, Waahington, D. C. 20301.

So In tho Intorost of economy, legible compiotion of this form in pencil or pen in fully acceptable, and

strongly encoursa rel

Al. Propes caution in the une of pressure senailive NCR paper is necensary to preciade possible security

violation, when forms are printed on this metorial.

%, CLASSIFICATION. Proper classification will be entered in appropriate block at top and bottom of form.

It the completed for does not contain clannified information, the word UNCLASSIFIED will be emered in the

Mock, Insert also neceasary Specia! Security Markings or Precautions, and appropriate doungrading

information

-7537

Do The der Me A

"..

2:

---

## Page 22

SECRET

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONIACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE

8:4:1

#f:=d:

1:

traid th

SUBJECT AND AGEA

veral Acastaclo Sosouse deali, prestionclai

Aspirailoi

G. CONTACI NOSe, June. Diganiestion, Addressi

POUEL F. ARTINE FUCEa

INDIVIDUAL ANO

A.130260

INDE OO-E

Sinal, slorida

ORGANZATION NO

i SEA ONSE

SUBJEC!

89. &2|84.301

M. SOURCE (Namo. Pole, Orgonisation, Address)

NOVOUAL NO

ORGANIATON NO

I. SUB-SL'URCE (Nome, Inte, Orgonsaten, Aderass)

NON DUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

MEIMOD OF COLLECIION

MEADQUARIERS COMMENIS

Debrieting

Trip iepe:!

Other Document

FIELD COMMENTS

Other (spectly belew)

situationiste

128. Heroine

104044.18

FIX

CASE

X-RET

VIES -

C/B

MAcociaigb

Chaciele fiorious

#Glene

F.O. Chiel

JROLETCHAUR

Request For Evaluation

Case Ollicer

11:

Liter

SECRET

1-00. 19

ohit

RELEASED

BüA:81 048

•ACI

JOISSEMIATED

A REA

51138|59158

* 0710 / 4456

Yes

18 JUN 1906

I No

Diviaron / Stall / O*T Snitzer

120-418

Leonal ?

---

## Page 23

NORA MOTER. BOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

C-0-H-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A*L

COUNT!. Nicaragua

SUBJECT.

•Ceneral Annataclo Sonosa'e Health/

Presidential Aspirations

REPORT NO

DATE DISTE

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

(356)

19 May, 66

1

Responsive to

C- DC5-52374

DATE OF

INFO.

Teb 66 and late 1965

PLACE &

DATE ACO. = = INicaragua - Peb 66 and late 1965

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: Cuban national, a medical doctor, who resides in exile in the US. Since

1962, he has been associated with active anti-GOC organization in the

US and chroughout Latin America.

(This report was developed by an Army representative anoigned to the office

of preparation. )

Lo Late in 1965, General Anastnelo Somoza, Director, National Guard of NicAragul,

was « patient In Balcinore's John Hopkins Hospital for approximaraly one

onth. I vialted the General at the hospical in two occasione and we

sppalled at

Lo appearance; he was a very sick wan. He was sutterin

from hepaticin and had had a nervous breakdown.

Ao part of the creatment,

an was placed on a vory strice diec, and advined to stop drinking.

Presently

Somosa S0 following Che diet rallgiously; he takes a sugar subatitute

wich hio coffee; and has drastically curtalled his drinking.

Apparently

the diet has been succeseful, for Sonora has lose much weight.

2.

In Februnsy 1966, I vinited Nicaragua and called on Genaxal Somoza on a

He appeared healty, strong and was In Jovial spirita

We discunned politiao; and his presidential candidacy for next years eloc

Elon. He 1o confident about the outcome of the electione; there is no

dosbt In hio mind chat ho will. ba the next President of Nicarague.

In my opinion, behind the confidence and optimism de the nagging fact

that the Somosa, nano le cuteneically identified with diecatorshipa.

would like to change the Image the Somoza name has creates. throughout

Latin America.

This lo his real notivation in seeking the presidency, and

abandoning the discetorship or the setional Guard.

He refoices in the

fact that President Shick, a duly elected presidant, will

sores his full

tern and will be succended by another elected president.

Somoza has all

intentions of cepping noide at the end of his cem in favor ›ê the then

elected president®

He desires che Somora none 'co ba synorys of prosperity,

stability and democracy in Nicaragua.

Ling :5547%

13

---

## Page 24

$ 4-00000

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

€ DE $€ID USE

@N:+

ri:=

-Jin. p..

G. CONTACT ji

s8: 11i0. O1g06aa900. Address)

Fine

street

• SOURCE INDED. ne Organeshoa, Address!

1. SUB SOURCE (Amma, into, Orgeniation, Address)

4150260

DEGANATON NO

ADIVIDUAL NO

ONGANZALON NO.

SNOW DUAL NO

ORGANIZATION NO.

MEADQUARIEAS COMMENIS.

THE 00€

CHARMAS

NARY

A€#OGIS

si

nixi

mitte as

:{500E0 106

I DISSEMINIES

32

MEINOD OF COLLECION

Debriefing

Other Decusent

MELD COMMENIS

nđe

Trip #enort

Other (aparty bolom)

Pirel

PP

F.O. Chai

29

Obsolete previous

editons

Request for Evaluation

Case Oficer

SECRET

sied indo.

11 APR 1966

in posite

Tes

— No

Divisen / 5ext/Dest 13 3017340

(20-4 1)

3

---

## Page 25

14100000

XINF

ORD

ARMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGE:ICY

C-0-5-F-T-5-6-1-7-7-27-na

CounTer Cuba/South Vlot lina

SUBJECT

Fidel Castro to Instigato Viet an

Peaco Movement throushurt Latin Aneries

ПЕРОеТ NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERE:- CES

22 DAns 66:

C-D05-52332 Collectton

Quadnace Mornia Cuba

DATE OF

INFO.

Jen 66 and earlier

FACE &

PAIF ACO MANY, FlOrIda JAn 66

THIS IS UNEVALUATLE INFORMATION:

SOURCE:

cuban national, A IJ 312 T24, graduste medical dostor. Since 2962 e

has been assoafated with ast1-000 astivittee in the Us and throughout

Latin America. One os several reporta.

(Thie report vas developed by an Als force reprecentative anotened to the

atrion of pruparation.)

My contaata 11 Cuba Informod no that, an a rosult of the TrI antinental

Conference during janunry 1966, Cube vould Inatigato a Vlor-lem panca

movement throughout Latin America. Thin peace movemont rould be

ponrbonded by Tidal Caatro who would propose that all ponde loving dourtries

Join toguther to boycott ver

nels carrying var material to Bouth Viet -Hen

no a stop tovardo a penceful solution la Vet-las.

'"ond"

Lang: 547

0+8-101-9-2-838

-A-%

NORMALON

---

