# 104-10216-10097

## Page 1

104-10216-10097

SECRET

& suno 20c0

Iso Dolo Hodallo

Ac:in: Ulrector, Maforoe ont Stait

Dirlo of limnilonal irevio

desista, ton Dolo

SUBJXI0 (Paa) Achinoly o8 Aslilraklo

Filos Ii-lilo diP ¿sul

Dear lis, lodallon

Lo In re:ly to your lo:ter of lorll lo 10:0, ve tare so lafornation'

et tho prosant tina concorala, tro diport and e nat di sul berina

Ebrou in laxiro eo 0195 Jouna cariera countloa, Toror to so alll

anko orory e tema to cincia tito the salliny ciù ulll no:lia you se

non an ony Lafora-tlan la Focoired ly tile A'orcyo

12305

T: 00.gect follah mollire, of the sme ATTTTY rould be

Polich non, le la gil'e li:oly but 1t nor 30 a ilod

praiar of Juici Io lA p'oro 10 collla, a' Cia sould

It la posmible that tho subgret of your mordes.

ABili Io say bo d'o::lenl mia cro in eno è..

Aaolica di lion oi colica cesenato

eaulojed sill le o'er 1010 by io follab (ar-ra) leidany

la ianila-ton da perroril encretirg lo Daces Iii, tha

fornr iblish 1a ancor to tie luled striese di: lI

alle pily sintod 111t s0 0 recelt of louis farlieroo, he

voia foe dierliitin in Sio leited 111.000 la 154%

alioti ropor dly nule a trig to iolando

la additiosa a ro oit on the Merler ilno Cos 7900.

publinhed la Amo 1010 M lho comlttoo 01 DelArio

botivition, liatod tho noso of buna daillio on a

19ans1950

ICE-CRET

100.8-4-4119

201-41581

---

## Page 2

SECRET

very truly youre,

DO D8»X5008

Prepared bye JD -FDul/Poland

a suno 1950

Based One

1=3847

88 March 1047

SECRET

100

---

## Page 3

Lo The folloring

reg'out was too

from theDepartoont of Commeroes

Our roply to Connorce vaL

a felleve:

3. In addition to the abovo,

the Solloving Information, maanutte thich

Comerce, le min submittei for your lator ation enlys

• Bocent Information received fron Tal Inalcated tbat

Eugene JASISKI belongs to enveral Pelleh cosmunlal-tront

organtration in the Valled Staton: that ho 1a la touch

with Pollch manufaciarere

that

ho reportedly

Itary

Intelligence

Service.

Im

•f the

Ceverement,

18 1250611-08 7 ANSA

ATASCOA

If these ball-bearingo are sold In some Soull American Country and

ohipped to an Irenecurtain country. It 1o ment Istoly that shoy will

mana Do transportod on Polios ships touching the varieno

South Anerican perto.

100-8-6-141181

---

## Page 4

Dept. of Commerce

6

Apr. 50 (wash.)

Irving

17

-1310-JWP

23-51

State Dept. (cross-ret,

no date)

Re: Davidson, I. Irving

dil

---

