# 104-10185-10135

## Page 1

104-10185-10135

Ming *

CENTRAL INTELLILENCE AGENCY

Tas matertal do

S-E-C-R-F-T

ND FOREIGN DISSEY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT

REPCAT NO.

¡eport on Cuban Documentation and DATE CISTR

Procedures of the dunula.

Directorate

of Intolligence (Direcedos Genoral NO. PAGES

de Intoligencia - DG1)

BEFERENCES

C5-311/00866-64

22 July 1964

€

CS311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-G4

CS-311, 09716-64

DATE OF

To March 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO. May 1964

THIS 1% - UNEVALUATED

RED REPORT NO.

SOURCE GRADINOS ANE DEPNITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelli

gence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment.

The following information, as rejorted

by sourco during a debriofing, reveals the misuse of official

documontation and procedares by the General Directorate of

Intolligence: (Direccion General de Intellgoncia - DGI).

Use of Alterod and Fraudulent Documents by Cuban Intelligence

Cubans and other Latin American nationals operating for the General

Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion Genoral de Inteligencia -

DGI) of the Cuban Ministry of Interior are issued Cuban passporta

in allas by

the Cuban Foreign Ministry.

These passports are

considored legal in all respocts by Cuban authoritie American,

agents also use valid

passports of a numbor of Latin

countries in which false entries are provided by Cuban intelligence

authorities, The documenta used by non-Cubans operating under

IS auspices aro intendod to hide all traces of their travel into

and out of Cuba.

Cuban Diplomatic Passports

3.

Cuban diplomatic passports are issued in allas to IS staff per-

They aro

Bonnol, Consisting exclusivoly of Cuban nationals mere are

issued to aliens operating as agents of IS.

according to sourco, all of whon are

A

littlo over 100 staff employees

are estimated by Source to have

been dodumented in this way.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

RETURN TO CIA

Background•Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

3

2

1

STATE

ĐIA

REPCINCLANT

ARMY

CINCSO F

(Nor, Flatel dietlburion Andheated by "'#"$

HAYY

I&NS

NBA

1 2A

IFBX

2

UNHORMATION REPORT

IOIRMATION REPORT

LX-1572

NP (ANNUG- 1)

CS-311/00866-64

Evr Distributor See Attached Page

ELIs

12Llter Ar/OSt

ECSI, ONEL SY EBI.(DIA

TOTAL IE 3,

CI 21,

RID/AN 1,

TSD 1,

WH/SA 46

NH 11 (37), AF 8 (8), ES S (20), FE 12 (82, N8L11 (19)

TSD/ AB/TR

oy phene

407 R

•eg

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Hdgrs Dissen

WII/COPS

NH/PO/A

NH/PO/B

NH/RO

WH/1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/ 4

NH/5

WH/R

WH/SA/ĐOB

WH/SA/NOB

WH/SA/R

WH/SA/ Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI Staff

CI Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR • .

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

TSD

5

30

1

3

3

1

1

1

1

1

S-E-L'-R-E-T

NÜ FURE iGA DISSEN

NE/AA/LES

NE/AA. AP

NE/AA,'S

N5/ AA/I

N5/5/P

N5/6/C&1

NE/CI

NE/1

WE/?

WE/A

WE, 5

WE/BC

WE/R

1

Field Dissem

WH/SEXI

#H/UNTY

1

WH/MRID

NH/SDOM

WH/SNDR

WH/SJAN

WH/PIBO

#H/POSN

WH/KNGS

WH/PRIN

WH/GORG

WH/PACY

WH/MANA

#H/SJOS

KH/S.ALV

WH/TEGU

WH/GUAT

#H/LAPA

WH/BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

WH/LIMA

WH/CARA

WH/BUEN

WH/COBA

WH/MONT

WH/ ASUN

WH/SAGO

]

TH. RIOD

I CURI

1

1

#H

BRIL

WH. SAOP

#H

SHIA

. BEHO

*H

LGRE

IHL: RECI

WH- BLEN

1

1

1

WH/SA/WAVE 5

AF ALGI

AF/ORNA

AF/ RABA

AF./CASB

AF/ACCR

AF /CNRY

AF/BAKO

AF/ DAI 3

]

good pad

EE/VIEN

ES/SBJR

EE/CYRU

EE/ATHE

EE/KAVA

ES/SLON

ES/BERN

EE 'GNVA

EB/ZURI

ES/HAMB

FE/DJAK

FE/VEDN

FE/ SURA

FE/OKIE

FE/SEOU

FE/S.AIG

FE/KOBE

NE/COLO

1221

-261

-251

NE/NDRS

NE/KLWA

NS/KAHI

CS- 311/00566-61

.. DACC

NT: LAHO

NE/ RANL

NE/ BAGH

NE/BEIR

NE/ DAMA

NE/ALEP

NE/JIDD

NE/DARA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

1

1

5-61

WE/OTTA

WE/ROME

WE/MILA

WE/HAGU

1

WE/LISB

WE/MADR

WE/BARC

15-37

WE/LOND

WE/PARI

Llalson Dissem

IE/

L/WASH/

bord sond

S-I-C-R-E-T

NO PORSIGY DISSEN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

C5-311/00866-64

S.

Issuarce of diplomatic passports In allas is an automatic

process whonevor an

IS staf employco travels on assignment

The employee involved provides the following items,

which he selects personally, to one "Frlix Rafael," in the

DGI, who forwards the material to the Foreign Ministry:

Allas,

b.

C.

Diplomatic title,

One photograph.

1. The diplomatic title chosen by the staff employee 1s double !

checked by the Foreign Ministry to avoid conflicts or dis

crepahcles with.real

assignments.

For instance, Source chose

nolother Consular

Inspector was scheduled to travel through

the same area about that time.

The Foreign Ministry offictal

charged

with: issuing allas

diplomatic passports for IS person-

dells one Otero, Chief of the Uiplomatic Passport Section.

ptero does the

work on short order,

even completing a job on

the same date the request is received, if necessary.

Freguently. IS personnel ustng diplomatic passports travel r

stiall trouos:

For instance,

source traveled to Mexico in

early 19d4 with a group of six or seven staff employees, att

using diplonitic passports.

There art no distinguishing features, either in the passport

serial number,, the diplomatic title, or any other entry in a

diplomatic passport issued in alias to distinguish it from a

bona-fide document.

Cuban Ordinary Passports

7.

Cuban ordinary passports are issued in allas to Is agents, In

cIuding Cubans and nationals of other Latin American countries,

Cuban Foreign Ministry In much the same way as in the

case of diplomatic, passports.

In addition to the bearer's

photograph, an agent provides cover information on himselt

for use in the passport which conforms as closely as possible

to his real life.

As an example, Source cited his own case,

sayidg. that he furnished a cover story containing his true

Typical occupations

shown of

ordinary passports

IS agents are

"student" (estudlante) and "Iaborer"

(obirero) .

8.

feature for differentiating between

a Cuban ordinary passport issued in 'allas to an IS: agent and

a bona-fide document is a special code for the serial number

Source thinks that allas passports for IS arents bear five-

digit serial numbers while bona-flide passports bear six-

digit

serial numbers.

Source's theory

on the fact

that his ordinary passport issued in alias bore a five digit

number while the bona-fide passport issued

to his wife bore

a six-digit number.

This premise i5 in direct contradiction

with a study of the numbering system found to be in use

on

Cuban ordinary

in numhering is found,

with occasional discrepancies, in which a new

set of acces

bo lower on passports issued

ston numbers is used each yefit the beginning

scrial numbers will

of the year

*tian on

a those issued later in the same year.

The serial

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

14-00000

said incr

NO FOREIGE PISSEY

CS-311/00866-G4

numbers are generally in a fire-drait pattern, although it

nored

that from

to Decesber 1962 they ascended to

six-digit numbers.

9.

Source's ordinary

passport issued in alias was allegedly ob

in Januar')

but was given an issuance date of 23

August 1963 and bears a

serial nirber consistent with the

accession pattern for the latter issuance date.

five other Cubar ordinary passports issued in 1963 in alias

for use by agents under Source's supervision bear serial.

numbers adhering to the accession pattern corresponding to

their particular dates of issue.

10.

Gromnets recently ceased to be used on photographs in Cuban

ordinary passports.

Bona-fide Visas. Vaccination Certificates, and Passages

11.

Diplomatic visas for use in Cubas diplomatic passports in alias

are applied for directly by the Cubad Foreign Ministry to the

foreign nission concerned in Havana.

In Source's case appii-

cation sas first' made in March 1961 for a Chilean visa and

later for a, Mexican visa, even though no travel to Chile was

contemplated.

The reason for this was awareness by Cuban

authorities of exican suspicion of Cuban diplomtic personnel.

The Cuban authorities believed

the Mexican Enbassy in Havana

suspicious of a passport containing a visa from

another Latin

American country.

12.

Passage bookings and international vaccination certificates

for use by staff empioyees

and agents using Cuban alias pass-

ports are also obtained. through the Cuban Foraign Ministry.

Vaccination

certificates are obtained from the Instituto

Anistad con los Pueblos (ICAP).

IS persornel's

passages are

always booked on Cubaba Airlines because such

payable. in Cuban pesos.

No passages are booked on

Soviet or Czech mirlires because

these require payment in

U.S. dollars, which are scarce for the Cuban Government.

13.

After a Cuban diplomatic passport has been lised for one round

an exit permit from the Cuban Foreign Ministry, known

as "Visto Bueno," is required for esch subsequent departure

from Cuba.

Foreign Ministry issues these to personnel

using alias passports in the same ray as they would for bona-

fide documents.

14.

Foreign visas

in ordinary passports issued in alias to IS

agents

are applied for directly by the arents to the foreign

missions concerned in lavana.

Types of Foreign Passports Used by IS Agents

15.

The Cuban IS makes use of valid passports from a number of

countries, including Mexico

all Central Arcrican countries,

Argentina, British Guiana, Colombia, Dominican Republic,

Ecuador, Haiti, Paraguay,

Peru, and Venezuela, for document-

ing its agents.

ports fron Spain and the United Stares.

The IS had no access to, nor need for, pass-

specified

that the IS does not use Uruguayan passpoits because the

Cuban Government does not wish to endanger its good relations

with that country. Valid filled-in and blank passports from

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY - DISSEY

---

## Page 5

14-00009

- 11

. CS-311/00866-64.

the various countries are obtained or the IS through

the local

Comrunist Parties

in the countries coicorned.

Forgery and Falsificaiion Capabilities

16.

The IS has no capabilitirs for making false passports or iu-

ternal incuments from any country cecause of the difficulty

of matching the paper and the

technical problems involved in

the engraving and printing process.

It also lacis capability

for eradicating entries

in passports because of the problem

involved in attempting to delete entries without defacing the

doçuments.

17.. Filsification and forgery is limited to filling in valid blank

foreign passports, making photograph and page substitutions in

sona-fide foreign passports, and placing false travel entries

Travel entries from western Europe and

Source did not know whether the

IS itself made the photograph and page substitutions and for-

All documents requiring forgeries and substitutions

were turned over to one "Allonso," in the IS, who took them to

a site

unknown to Source.

Source theorized that the forgeries

and

substitutions may have been done by the Departamento de

Seguridad

del Estado (Department of Statg Security - DSE), the

cuunteriatelligence arm of the Cuban Government, which he said

has much wore

personnel than the DGI.

Travel Pattern of IS Agents

18.

Prospective agents recruited by the IS in other Latin American

countries and brought to Cuba for training in methods of sabo

and other subversive activities are provided with detached

visas and spurious passports to conceal the fact that they ever

entered Cuba.

19.

order that no Cuban visa will appear in an agent trainee's

bona-fide passport on his way to Cuba, the Cuban mission in a

Latin Anerican country issues the Cuban visa on a separate

sheet of paper.

In 1963 most agent trainees were being brought

into Cuba through Mexico, where the Cuban Embassy issued the

separate visas.

Early in 1963 Mexican immigration officers

began using

rubber stamp bearing the notice "Salio para

Cuba®

(Departed for Cuba), with the date on it,

automatically

stamped in all passports of travelers proceeding

to Cuba.

To counter this move the IS began replacing, wherever

possible,

the pages of the passports bearing this entry with

blank pages fron valid passports from the same country as that

of the

traveler

Source also believes that in 1964 the travel

pattern of a

fer prospective agents proceeding to Cuba may have

been nodified, thus decreasing slightly the number entering

through Mexico.

20.

To conceal the agent's travel when leaving Cuba, he is provided

for the first leg

with a Cuban ordinary passport

The route of travel is from Havana to Prague. Czech

authorities collect these passports upon landing in Prague.

not know what disposition is made of the Cuban

passports

by the Czechs, but he asserts that they are never

returned to the agent.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-H-E_T

NO FOREIGY DISSEX

- 5 -

CS-311/0086G-64

21.

For the second leg of the jourrey, carrying the agent from

Prague via

western Erope back to his native land,

he is pro-

vided in Havana, before depe non-Cuban passport may be the

with a passport from another

Latin American

countrs.

agent's bona-fide docinent which has been returned to him or

it may be another valic Latin Ancrican passport pressed into

service for the purpose.

If the agent's own passport bears

no evidence of travel into Cuba it will be used for this pur-

pose, being

"brought in to date" with forged western European

entries to explain the gap between the time when he left for

Cuba and when he arrired in Prague, but showing his mode of

travel to be such that he never passed through either Cuba or

Czechoslovakia.

Should the agent's bona-fide passport bear

the Mexican cachet storing that he proceeded to Cuba, the IS

replaces the page bearing such entry with a blank page from a

..valid passport of the same country if feasible.

If page subr

stitution is not possible, either because no other passport

from the same country is available or because substitution

proves too difficult. the IS will provide the agent with

another passport,. from his own country if availabie, or from

another Latin Americaa country;

The substitute passport may

be a filled-in original, in which case a photograph substitu

tion will be made,

and the agent will travel under the identity

of the original bearer.

22.

In other cases,

where ralid blank passports are used, the agent

may even travel under his true identity after

"surfacing" on

the second leg of the journey, in westerr Europe,

provided the

passport used is fron bis own

country.

case informa

tion from his bona-fica passport will

be copied directly in

the blank passport.

If the passport is fron a country differing

fron that of the agent, his identity will be changed.

the case of travel

under the agent's bona-fide passport, in

the case of spurious

ren-Cuban passports, false travel

are made to account for the

speat in Cuba, placing

hin in western Europe, but not in Cuba nor Czechoslovakia,

during that period.

Quality and Availability of Spurious Documentation

23.

Providing documentatios for agent trainces is the resporsibillay

of the IS country dest officer handling trainees from the par-

ticular country.

The country desk officers receive and main-

tain custody of passports coming from the Connunist Parties in

their areas of jurisdiction. Although the agent's training

Cuba may take several weeks, or even a few months, it often

takes a year or more for the country desk officer

to be able

to provide his trainees with the proper docurentation.

commented that invariaoly a country

desk officer will be short

one spurious passport in his "collection" of passports for a

group of about six trainees.

There possible the officer will

"borrow" a passport fren his colleague fron another country

desk.

24.

On at least one occasion forged travel entries made in an

agent's passport were lound to have a chronological error

shortly before the age's departure from Cuba.

The error

consisted of a false exit cachet for a given port of encry

bachet or the pree do the try seasical mossibnity

cachet for the

in true life.

Despite the discovery of this error the Is

SE.C-R-E-T

VC FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 7

1d-0d0d

S-E-C-R-F-T

FORTION DISSEN

-6=

CS-311/00866-64

ide no attempt to make a correction, hoping that no immigr

tlon

aspectors abroad would nottee ine discrenanes

1.

Headquarters Comment

odriquez. Director of the

Minister®

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORSIGY DISSEM

---

