# 104-10437-10079

## Page 1

110410437110079]

VICI

UNITED STATES COV

MENT

Memorandum

TO

Files

DATE:

29 January 1954

FROM

: M. D. Stevens

SULJECT: THIE THE HARVEY OSHALD CASE

#351164

1. According to a rewspaper column of "Allen and Scott" in the

Chicago Anerican

of 6 Dacenter 1963,

on the OSWALD Case, Abes! CHATES,

Iegal Officer of the State Department, was one of two persons im

mediately responsible for OSWAND's being permitted to return to the

United States fron the Soviet Union in June 1952.

The Ocher indiviausl

named was Llewellyn TriOlESOl, the then Ambassedor to Russia.

Anosher

said to have been involved in the handling of OSWAID's case

was Samuel

VISE, Counsel of the American Embassy in Moscow.

2. Abram CHAYES, #352234, who as of 16 Februery 1951 was describes

as "the new Counsel in State"

, was granted Security approval for liaison

contact with J. Foster COLLINS (in the office of the Chief of the Covart

Action Stafr) on 6 March 1951. The request for CHAYES! clerance vas a

. "Blanket" request to permit discussion with him of NSC 5412/2 matters. cu

a need-to-know basis.

HAYES wife Antonia (Toni) Leigh CHAYES

In March 1962, CHAYES was granted a renaval of his liaison

contact clearance vich &/CA on a contiming basis. This time his contaci

was Archibala ROOSEVELI, JI.

5. On 10 February 1962, HUMAN EVENIS reported as follows with

reference to CHAYES:

"SOFT ON COMMUNISM: Representative Francis E. Walter (R.-Pa.),

Chairnan of the House Cormittee on Un-American Activities, has

scored the new State Department regulations on passports,

clair-

ing

they would allow Reds denied passports to

"rifle freely the

confidential files of the FBl,

the CIA and other investigative

agencies."

The man behind the new regulations, which Welter

clains violate the Internal Security Aci of 1950, is reportedly

State's chief legal officer, Abran Cheyes. Clayes, & Kennedy

appointee, is an ex-rarvard professor who was Chester Boules?

top legal adviser when Bowles was Governor of Connecticut.

Halter has introduced legislation to ramody the new passport

regulations."

Document Numbor

12711029

for FOlA Roview on

PED 1077

Candlada

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-2-

6. Samuel WICE,

"Counsel in the American Embassy in Moscow" who

is referred to above,

Sanuel. Griffin WISE Jr., #04574,

SD & SSD, who apparently was once

a contract employee on ARACTIVa.

The State Department reviewed WISD's file on 2 June 1954; and as of

Septonber 1962 a Samuel G. WISE was Second Secretary of the American

Imbassy in Moscow.

At that tine WISH advised in a cable to the State

Depertment

DaVIS' case is very sinilar to that of

OSWALD;

and he, like OSWAID, lived in the Soviet Union for two years

after his defection and prior to making application for return

to the

United States./

7. WISE was an applicant for CIA employment in early 1953 and

was security approved subject to polygraph on 11 August 1953.

not enter on duty and in September 1953 the office which had been

interested in him was "no longer interested". On 13 November 1953,

WISE was granted a CSA to permit his use as a contract employee on

AFACTIVE in New York City. His CSA was cancelled on 24 March 1958.

8. WISE was nared as a friend of William Orville MUNSELL, #61693-DL,

during an investigation of the latter for possible CIA employment in 1952.

according to MUNSHu's landlady and

social acquaintance in Washington,

D.Co during the parica of about a year wich ended in April 1952, vas She

only person she knew by name with

whon HUNSult was friendly. According

to the informant, WISE was a student at Columbia University whose address

was 423 Furnald Hall. MUNSHLI was Security disapproved for CIA employment

in June 1952 because of his close association on a professional ana

basis, while attending Denver University from 1945 to 1951,

questionable loyality.

In November 1954, MUNSETI, was of interest to

project FJALIVE with reference to assignnent tol

however, the interested office withdrew their request on him, afüer

Security advised of the derogatory information regarding him.

9.

WISE from 1951 to 1954 attended Scarsdale High School in Scarsdale,

New York, which was attacked by a Citizen's Group, which alleged Communist

influence in the school systen.

He had several questionable associates in

addition to MUNSErT.

1D stenis

M. D. Stevens

---

