# 104-10247-10086

## Page 1

104-10247-10086

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

2 DiC 6)

JIT'AVE

Tele: Am101-10

3 Dec 35 & Dec 5321

REFERRED "

ELEOUTINE

CITE DIR

**°)

WAVE

REF:

UFGA- 11829 (AtE. D)

86473

3.

DIR 79461

USAT TYPiC TOBITE ATTRUE AMLASH MHAPRON

fil:" AMLASH/I WAS MET IN-PARIS FOR LAST TIME ON 22 MOM 63

BEFORE HIS PLANNED DEPARTURE FOR PERIMEN ON 28 NOV 63 TROM FRACEY.

Z. AHLASH/1 SEPEATED HIS DEZEININAIION PUESUE PLANS FOR A.

COUP AGAINST ANTIC. ANLASH/1 WAS FAMISED PULI U.S. SUPPOT D HY

IS SUCGESSTUL IN A REAI CONP ARAINST THE ANTHUG REGIME.

J. ACCORDINE TO AMLASH/I THR FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS FORM TRE

NUCLES CE THE GROUP MICH CAN BE TRUSTED FOR A MOVE AGAIRST AMTHUG:

B)

C)

AGRUNX/10

7-15

SECR%I

3/08

---

## Page 2

325/209

7147

2 DEC 63

SECRET

PAGE II

1A80

Cite did 864>3

THE ABOVE. INDIVIDUALS ACCORDING TO ANLASH/1, ARE THRONES IN WHOS

iE LAS NOT CONFIDENCE AND JO, ITS BECONES NECESSARY, CAN BE

CLT-IN OX TRE INTTIAL STACES OF THE OPIRIIION. ALASH/I CORTINUES

TO INSIST THAT AS LOSC AS ANTRUG IS MOUD, TIZ NONE OR INDEEDALS

KNOWLIDGRABLE OR A COUP AGAINST THE RICES MUST BE KIPT TO AN

ABSOLUTE MINIUM, CICE ANTHUC IS REMOVED, AHTASH/1 TELE THE

FOLLEWINE OFTICERS CAN BE COUNTED OS TO SUPPORT THR COUP:

A)

Kamsur lintend

B)

(780

BROTIERS (REQUEST ADDITIONNL INTO FROL WAYE)

C)

MO IS A CLOSE FRIED' AND CAN

INFLURICE

ONCE THI COUP APPRARS SUOCESSIVE, AACASM/1 PEELS THE TOLLOWING WILL

FAIL IN LINE:

A)

dear as far 6900. -

S2685T

68.a0 !

---

## Page 3

S

÷ BLO 53

-...

PAGE III

REFERREC

... :

190F0

C)

D)

SINCE ONE OF THE FRINCIPAL PLAYERS IN ANTRUNK, I.D., MARUKE/10,

IS ALSO PART OF THE ANLATH GROVE, IT IS ISSENTIAL TOR HAVE ASD

HUS TO COCRDINATE ALL DETAILS ON THE PLANNING AND ACTIVITY OY THI

ATRUNK AND AHLASH OPS. THE FACT WS ARE INTO TIE SAME GROUP FROM

TWO DIFFEREI ASCLES IS NOT NECESSARILY BAD BUT DORS INCREASE THE

SECURITY RISES OF THE 0R.

4, SIRCE ANLASI/1 IS BETAILRE VIA FRAGUE NE DID NOT DESIRE TO

CARRY ANY INCRIKIRATINC MATERIAL WITH HIM, HE IS TRAINED IN SM

ANO PLARS ARE TO DELIVER HIS SAN NATIRRAY TO NIA THROUGH BOLIP IM

PERLION AFTAKEN S-15 JAN EA. AS WATE IS AMANE TRIM REP 8 APCTEUAT/10

TOLD ANLASH/1 ABOUT HIS CONTACT WITH MMICE/16, RIS AISO TOZD APEAST:/1

,.. . .

SECR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SWINEZ: 10

71÷7

I Dis

63

SECREI-

PACE IV

CISERRES

ROUTiNE

INFO

CITE Bill

8647.3

ABOUT HIS S/W SYSTEM. IT MAY BE NECESSARY TO RESORT TO USING

ANTRUMS/10'S SAN SYSTES FOR MESSAGES TO ND TROM ALAST/1, RUT II

PREFERABLE AMLASH/1 ALSO HAVE HIS OWN SISTEM, FOR SECULITY REASONS

DO NOT DESIRE CUS ANTRUMS IN ON SUBUER'S CONTACT INTA ANLASE/2.

S. BOS ALSO WISHES ALEXI WAVE TO NEED FOR SIDING MALASN/1

A CACILE O7 APPROX 20 RAND GABRADES, WEAPONS AND ANO, ANO COO WITH

ASSOCIATED EQUIPHENI, TOTAL WEIGHI APPROX 7S POUNDS, AJOLASN/1

SUCGEST, SAPEST PLACE FOR CACHE IS ANBRUNE/10 FIRCA. REQUEST HAVE

VIEWS ON POSSIBILITY CACHING THIS PACRACE.

6. HQ8 REQUISIS HAVE GIVE FRIORITY ATTENTION ESTABLISHING

RADIO COMANTICATIONS, POSSIBLY WITH AMTRUNE/9, OR ANOTHER ATTRUISE

ASSEI WITH TILE IDBA, IF TUTUME NEED ARISES, OF MARYLNG THIS ASSES

TO ASLASH/1 AND ANTRUNK/ 10.

7. IN HOS VIEN THIS CROUP COMPOSED PRIMARILY ON PERSONALITIES

FROM THE OLD DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO (DR) CITIES THE BEST

POTEITLAL AI PRESENT FOR INATIATING SUCCESSIUL ACTION ACAINST THE

d::00÷186

ho many

SECRET

...

1..084.

---

## Page 5

SAS/ 2:02

& DE

DEG 63

SECRET

PACEY

.:.:

SEFERRIS

HOUT NE

INfO

CITE DIR

86473

8. THE MUTY CRONT BEING DOTERLOTO TROCE THE EASTS, ORLE

AID AMQUAR/1 WILL BE THE SUBJECT OF A SEPARATE CABLE.

9. DAISOLD PLANS DISCUSS POLICE ASPECT HEAPRON PROGRAN

DURING 10 DEC 63 STOPOVER. MELVIN I. WILLISIT AND MATTHEN N. ONTRICH

WILL TRAVEL WAVI LATIR DATS DISCUSS DETAILS..

IND OF MESSAGE

SAS /20B

6/5 40.

SECR

---

