# 104-10216-10015

## Page 1

104-10216-10015

i..

RATY

WE/S

6393

T WARCH 1966

602.15.14

NS SECPET

DHOIMBER

Liar existia

B.CA

fir fini

«: DIRECTOR

LalieTa

PRIORITY

INFO

CITE DIE

DESENGIIIZED

$5730

REF

DiR

7382

7539259)

FYI, TOLL IS TO LOS SENT TO STATE DEPT ON I BARCH:

"WITH REFERENCE TO THE HABANA PRENSA LATINA NEVS RELEASE

OF 5 MARCH 1966, ALLEGING CIA INTOLVENENT WITH ROLANDO CUBELA

SECADES AND RANON TOMAS GUIN DIAZ IN COUNTERREVOLETIONARY ACTIVITIES,

• THE FOLLOWING OUTLINES THE AGENCY'S CONTACT WITH THESE THO PERSONS.

"GUIN WAS RECRUITED BY A CIA AGENT IN AUGUST 19G3 INSIDE

CUBA AS A PRISCIPAL AGENT TO RECCUIT HIGH LEVEL MILITARY LEADERS.

ES HAS HAD NO CONTACT FITH CIA STAFF PERSONNEL.

"CUBELA, THE JORE IMPORTANT OF TIE TIO LEN, RAS BES IN

CORTACT WITH THIS AGENCY DURING TEE PERIOS 1961-1965. THE LAST

AGENCY CONTACT RITI CUBELA WAS IN FEBRUARY 1965. HE HAS HAD DIRECT

CONTACI PITH SSERAL AGENCY OFFICIALS AND. IN ADDITION, IS ENON

TO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH CUBAN EXILES, INCLUDING MANUEL ARTINE.

CIA'S CONTACI AND REUATIONSHIP FITH BOTH CUESLA AND GUIN YAS FOR

TIES EXPRESS PURPOSE UF USING THEM TO COLLECT INTELLIGENCE ON

MILITARY ANATIREZE IT BUSCTITED IN SUES. THI AGEION TAS NUT

INVOLVED WITH EITHER OF THESE TRO MEN IN A PLOT TO ASSASSINATS

:52

NEIS RILEASE. 103

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

REPROOUCTION AT OTHER THAN TNE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CRIO &

WAIT 8.

MESSACE FORM

TOTALCOPIES.

SICRET

DJ INCEN

D NO INCER

I FILE IN ES FILE NO.

2

ROUTING

51

7

8/

To

FROM: DIRECTOR

PAGE 2

BETOS VA, PILE D'EID COPY

AnFO

CITE DIR 85738

DID IT EVER E'COURAGE EITHER OF THESE TWO PERSONS TO ATTENT

SUCH AY ACT.

oaR.

MENTIONED IN THE PRESS RELEASE, IS A

CIA OFFICIAL STATIONED IN THE U.S. EJEASSY IN

AND

WAS IN CONTACT NITR BOTH ODON ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA AND JOSE LUIS

• GONZALEZ GALLARRETTA, IS NOTED IN THE PRESS RELEASE. TRE PURPOSE

OF TIIS CONTACT WAS LINITED SPECIFICARLY TO OBTAINING INTELLIGSNOS

• INFORMATION. THERE IS NO TRUTH TO THE ALLEGATION TRAT CIA GAVE

$100,000 OR ANY OTHER SIZABLE SUN OF LONEY TO EITHER OF TRESE

INDIVIDUALS.

"'IN! OTIS AGENCY HAS ALSO BAD LIMITED DIRECT AND INDIRECT

CONTACT WITH JORGE ROBREVO, ALBERTO BLANCO RAMIREZ AND CARLOS

¡TAPEDINO, NOTED IN THE PRESS RELEASE. • AGAIN, THESE CONTACTS VERE

RESTRICTES TO OSTAINING INTELLIGENCE. "

END OF MESSAGE

===

- C/WE=5

Vilian

A/DD/

COOPRIATE BEFIERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

PROMIBITED.

Berry ma

---

