# 104-10133-10328

## Page 1

104-10133-10328

TUNCLASSIFIED

UTERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONE"

*INTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oorional)

HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

ROM:

Jerry G. Brown

Dubutr

Sacurity Analysis Group

1O: (Oficer dasignation, room number, and

muolding;

EXTENSION

4400

OFFiCER S

INITIALS

NO.

429

229

11 June 1976

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show frori whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column errer pact commeni.)

C/ SAG

Clops/ps/

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

11 p

in 76

1173781

2°

F the sis this is beng

3:

Bie stil

S.

612112%

9.

10.

11

12.

13.

i5.

6.10 USE ROSVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

_ CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE OMLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2SB0C

11 June 1976

NEMORINDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

:

HUMMING,

Gerald Patrick

57H429 221

1.

On 9 June 1969 "Dan" of the DDO Guatemala Desk (x9041)

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

"Dan'

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HendinG

file.

When "Dan" contacted the

writer, "Dan" advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from the

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

"Dan" was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

"Dan" was requested to alert CI Staff and JMWAVE

to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the

2.

"Dan" provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 941357, Cite

J19536, dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached.

In substance, the cable reflects that

circa & june 1976 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the !

a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning

a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

Miami

since August 1975.

3.. According to the report,

the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HEMMING brothers

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which

vere floun to Guatemala in a small

aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami

and New Orleans.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 063994

---

## Page 3

NOTE: The

also included

information the

had received

fron ESDEW-1 on 8 Junc. ESDEN i said thäi io

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months or

SO.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI

one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

ESDEW-1 did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b.

In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms, as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976 "Dan" of the Guatemala Desk advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

From the name, physical description,

activity, and

alleged

employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMINC

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

who Is a who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds as

notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miani Field Office, and JMVAVE.

On

none.

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug

Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

Frank FIOKINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a

long-time record of

falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

In

the late 1950's HEMMING and

STURGIS, both former U.S. Narines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter;

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Communist Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

9.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant.

nemorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10

June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

and an extract from

a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John T. Kennedy

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Security Analysis Group

Atts

---

