# 104-10194-10018

## Page 1

104-10194-10018

MATERIAL REVIBED AT CIA HEUCUAKTERS BY...

HOUSE SELECT COMITTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS STUFF MORBERS

SECRET

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

AYERS, BRADLEY EARL

INCLUSIVE DATES: 6 JUly 1964 - 30CT 1976

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CP

ROOM: 5.E13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

3-9-28-

DATE

RETURVED

2-9-28

REVILNED BY

(PRINT NANE)

Pole a del

SIGNATURE OF

REVILWING OFFICIAL

Jour Haribect

NO DOCINENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REVOVED FROM THIS FILE.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Gassll minals

"DER WILL CHECK C

_CLASSIFIED

CONFA

NTOR ANO BOTTON

"STIAL

SECHLT

114)

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

Irry

NAME ANO ADDERES

DATE

Tis. Lennie Bause

1- F-04 HQ

€ in

tion,

10H15.

1AX

like:

r hy

0115,

rectic it 32O9T.1975

-E-5S/H*

• Are

hich.

pear

nilse

ACTION

DIRECT REPLY

PREPARE REPLY

AnCe

1:48

APPROVAL

DISPATCH

RECOMMENDATICN

COMMENT

FILE

- CONCURRENCE

RETURN

INFORMATION

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Attacked in the file

her

ites

The

tiful

-ple

equates.

elo sate book ad s'ir added

Thanks

Is cos ve hold this file a H9 fee

FOLD HERE TO RETURN

FROM:

PHONI NO

DIATHE

Leisanel

SE-JjH4

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDEATIAL

SECHET

Uso prerious aditions

this

sha-

Otis.

•kes

nia-

0r5,

tion

•ОП+

des

in-

DETO

citi-

1635.

the

for

: OUR WORDS

FROM

"I us"

ARO

Bai aalis

sperialined Pasies

is

Fren 120m

sriter "Currently

ising in Tunisia. Lie has deliv.

crin! himseif do a merty cuper

in SURDFR AT INE FRAIN-

FURT DOOS FAIR (Doubieday,

$5 95).

And it is a caper that

das a sharp cutting rage. Mon-

GeT 76-1000611

The man behind the CIA's

Cubin operations tells how he

almost became our man

in Havana.

TRIG

V7197

TRAING

VER WAS

BRADLEY FARL AYERS

Copiain, U.S. Ariny

The lunt inside account ol how DoCtained

andler Colar anti-Casire querilla i

seas cal

ticion besos in florida ond the Fbores. li

you rever wondered wickwent long is Caba

fod find this unaryadied account intiguing)

cadembairessing! 8.95

33OBES MERRILL

GOD 8 6.27S36338

Carine

Chusch

i Christopher Siree!

in the U.S. Mas gel riess and i.

---

## Page 3

14-00009

The Washington Me.

oCo-Mound

THE WASHINGTE DST Searday, ape 17,1972 D15

CIA Plotted to Blast Cuba Refinery

By Jack Anderson (sinstlon team actually rached)

Yet some of the raiders sur, campus of Miaml University.

a Havana rooftop within rifle

olved. One of them, a young!

Though

its

doors passed

The full, fantastle stors of range of Casir.

But like the er domy captala nones Brad some

of the

¡the Bay

of Ples has beenjothers, this

squad also was les:

-Der tias emeraged fram

nation's

most

accret operatives: the dapper

buried for 10 years dery in thei

caught and tortured.

under cover. He has given us John Roseill, rusged Bill Han

arrera. to his notes, documents ses.

"Kip"

Robertson

and a

Central Intelligence Arnes's Refinery Raid

and draft chapters of a book huge dew

Mexican

fortresslike headquarters near!

he is writing about his raids memberet only as "The Big

Lankley, Va.

Tom to have learned of a

ClA plot lo

blos

All

world knows that

up Cuba's for the ClA.

lindian.®

most productler oil refinery.

exlles

"The Cuban experience." ho

Ayers dot the aralennient of.

CIA tralned

Cuban

Painstakina preparations were told us, "has been a plague onitraining a foush Cuban cadre

stnrmed

ashore on

• Cuban

i made, and a cummando team.

ithe

national corscience as it'in the

swamps of the

Ever.

brachhrad and

were

cut

to

iwas siven intensive training.

has been on mine. I think it'rislades and the beaches of the.

pleces by Dictator Fidel Cas-i

tra's milliamen 10 years 830 that they showed every bush.

Csine U.2 photos so detailed high time that at least part keys.

of the story be told."

tie

supposed to.

today.

teach there chough aurt land

But the CIA has con-

Nia).

talward

Roderick.

'Ing skill,

underwnter swim-.

leealed from the world how it!

Army engineer on loon to the

ming,

continued to send assassina.

demolition,

boat

han.

CiA, constructed a mockup of

A former paratrooper, pllot aling and simple survival for.

Uon

feams

Bndl

rommando.

the plant. ile eson figured out and demolitions expert, Car- them to lead conmandos trito:

squaas against Cartro.

mortars

rouid be

presitain Agers was training rong. Cuba lo biol up lhe mului..

Bit by bla, stories of these;aimed. then placed by

comers at Falin Air Force

Base, million doilar refiners.

inoss invasion sortles are leak mandon in a precise spot and flo, when he peceised orders

The story of their night land.

¡to report to the Army's Spellogs in Cuba and the great oil:

vealed, for exomple, how the

Chid used a awashbuckling un-t

cause a human error of

an inston,

derworld figure, John Roselli,linch

180

make

six

1w)

could

seud

lle

unsuccessful mortar shell into an inhabitel|ral, psychiatrle and lie detes-

was pu? thrush physl. Cupirol Conversalion

assassinalion

attempta

upon area. Then the whole plan sasitor examinations for a week.

From the Horse's Mouth

Castro.

Hunked after

President Ken- then he

was hustled over to We have aiready reported thai"

The

CIA

assigned

two/nely's assassination:

the

ClA's Cubon section.

trusted

Billy

Attorney

General John

Mit-

agents,

We have also learned that

Ile was questioned for three chell will resign from the Cab-

and

"Ble Jim" O'Connel, 10 the CIA seattered. Sco bills fays by ClA

direct

the

offickals

who.

inet to run Fresident Nixon's

murder

missions. around like green confetti toltinaily satisfied, provided him 1072 campaign,

On the first two tries, Rosel finance the clandestine

operating

AL.

anti-mitla a cover

story,

phony fiose out vi his former las of.

It's

assassins

Bought to

slip, Castro

oprrat.uns.

Bales

of, documents

and a

ticket

to fice. Now insiders teil us the

li poison

pellers Into

Castru'si money

were

delivered

to: Miami.

He adopted the name President is considering Wit

1food. The next four attempts Cuban exile

leatters

were

who Danicl B.

williams

MNR.415

lam Huckelshaus, now the en.

made by

equipped

sniper teams fave

with

no socounting of how assigned to a ClA front caller

vironment coar, as. Mitchell's

highpowered; they spent ii

• Paroson Alr Service.

Belgian rifles,

exlosives and!

ramirerras

During his

Sume were stashed by men'

The CIA lodged Ayers and

appearance on the David Frost

180 way ratios.

since killer. Other thousands Roderick In a luxurious brach

Show, Mitchell denied our re".

There were midnight power were buried In former piraie house in Key Biscayne.

boat dashes to secret landing lairs in the Florida Kers. Still two

undercover

Arrr.y

The

port that Los Angeles Sheriff

nien

Peier Pitchess had been sound.

spots on the Cuban coast and, more thousands were strewn'sorked out of a ClA tront-led out about taking J.

machine gun exchanges in the on the beaches of Cuba where a columned building with the! Hoover's job. lie got the story.

dark

of

night

with

Cuban would-be

raiderg

leit

their cover name of Zenith Techni-

pairol boats.

The last assas, boses.

291F erprises on the south roma Behe Mossacall:

€ 1971. Bri-SorTure 990dica:6. Inc.

---

## Page 4

The Washington Verry- Go-Kound

THE WASHINGTON POST Tundy. Ape827,1918 1515,

Telltale Traces of CIA Cache Found

By Jack anderson

However.

ind in former pirate lairs in browed howe us neone dina

the Florida kes's

bonk since matted sheether tree

matter!

My assoclate les Whitten

records.

We also checked out murt and krass.

has just returned from a treas.

Sorret CIA Site.

his veracity

Leg

careinlly,

The hills were neor wrapa

jure hunt for buried CIA cash

W'hitten

accompanyiel a road map, which Ayers

One who perked up his ears him hack to the keys to re- sald had been ined an a wrap-

In the Florida Keys where pl.

over the whlspers was Bradley cover the ClA money. Vie notl-|per for

onco. atashed Spanish

the

sultraso

bills.

sold.

ASeT9. A former Army coplain,

fled the Treasury Departinent, Treasury records

gherr the

ArE Tras on loan to the ClA In in general terms, that all re-bilia

were

printed

between

CIA

ile found

one cache where, 10836t to train Cuban assault

covered

cash

would brejApril, 10ß, and Auzust, 153R.

turned over to the Trearary.

¡There is no way to prove this

thousands In moldins $20 bills teams. One training site had

had been burled. But someone

been krated

on

Upper Key

Treasure Hunt

was part of the money which

had reacher

the secret alte!

Larso

on lond that the Mon.

Whitten,

Asers and Ayers

the Cia continued in urovide

anti-(natro exiles. Mist the sto-

ahead of him. Ail. Whitten

me Countr

tax assessor's or. wife flew to an air strip oni ries that led to the corre care

I found

were

six weathered.

fice Identifled as belonging to Upper Key Larzo. Calng it aslin part to Ayers from Cubins

ithe University of Minni.

a base

of operations,

inatierl $20 bills hiat appar-

they the helped train for the CIA.

Tho Cla also operated outireconnoltered the dark man.

ently had been dropped aboutlot a front, called Zenith Tech- grovo thickets, slugalah can-

Washinglon Whirl

1200 sards away.

nical Enterprises, on the uni als, treacherous swamps at sea

versity's south campus. Thus grass

In an earler column, wo re-

the

and crocodile-intessel

Volunteer Army-Preniden:

respected university, wit crocks where Ajera had unce dison Is leading the ouposi

porsed that the Central Intelli.

gence

dingly or otherwise, provideditrained Cuban commandos.

Iuon to his own proposal tur

Agency had dollvered.

hales of $20

the

site

for

extension

For two days, they rauzged

volunteer Army-al least for

bills to

Cuban

course in Infiltration and dem. through the crecks In a aral. the next two years, at o secret

¡ exile. leaders to finance clar-

olition.

lose draft 1B foot sill, starded While House legislatice con-

destine

operntions

1 Conmunist Cuba,

against

isers learned enough fromloccasionally by the hazke ofiference, he warned COp (en.

Als former trainees to figure crocodiles.

When they

sabo

were i ressional

Leaderz:

Assassination

teams,

out where some

of the ClA convineed no one was tolles.

vates

and the

drait may

18310

aquads

amil

commando money might be hidden.

He ing, they plunged through un. lonk popular temporarily. Bue

units were sent agalnst Castro told us he discovered a halt.

derbrush

thick

theylin the long slew, our recom.

after the abortive kays of Plys buried suitcase full of mold. couldn't see four feet ahead.

mandallons

(to

estone

invasion.

Theso missions ap. ing. mutilated $20 bills.

Finalis they came upon the fraft for two years) will prove

(parently

HerO

halted

after

The

sulteuse

was in a re/bramblecloaked

alte

where len be right." White Mouse side

Frisident

Kennedy's

assasst. mote spot that he was conti. Ayers said he had discovered| peur.

Flaniyon

explained in

jestion. But the CIA continued dent wouldn't be discovered.

the suitcase. The soil nt ine the leaders that "y ahort fall

tie slip Infiltration icans into lle look out a dozen bills to|hiding place had been turaediot 100.000 men Is expectedl"

Cuba to rather intelligence.

make sure they weren't coun lup and alfted for. 10 yards in real year. He deserlber thie

The ClA pald all expenses, terfeit.

Ranba

redeemed alllall directions. The underbrush administration's plans r

apparently,

in

cash.

Huge but two badly weathered $20 and sea grass were trarapled legurage volunteera by disering .

turned

over

to bills

as If by many feel

exile leaders, who gave no ac.!.

Then Avers' house was mys.

The

financial incentlves, reluding

AARNEASE.

tuli of cur-la 88.000 henus to these

To tars

unting if how they spent It.

[teriously broken Into and rec- rency was gone. Disappointed, lail! reenlist for combat dus.

There

were whispers

thatlords of his find

were taken.

they combed the ares. Within But ke

warned this

sure money had disappeered Fearing the ClA or Cuban ex-

la quarter mile, Whitten ape imean cuts in other vital areas:

into

private

bank

accounts.lileg

were

watchis him.

he

ted a tattered $20 blil. Agers in the Detener Department.

that other thousands were bur. dared not return to the cache. I found two more, then Whitten

E. 19:1, Ball-SeClare Bradleate, Iac.

---

## Page 5

Tach Anderson

JFK Death: Halted

Cuban Oil Raid

THE SUPPFESSED STORY

cars nun be trid of how the

Central Intellizence Agency

orpanized a Cuban exlle raid

on Cuba's key oil setinery in

1903 but aborted ll after the.

assassination

of

I'resident

Kennedy.

lasiders saw the corporate

oil giants, hoping eventually

to preover their property in

Cisa, broucht quire pressure

lo quash any raids upon to.

fineries.

doynoon

Jolinson,

who

canceled the raid after

AYERS son off simulated

raids

near

Card

sound

oxainst a local Southern Bell

microware facility

with

hian

amurite fence. Other

nichts, he shared block beang

and

rice, drank ail stanked

"pop with his Cuan radio

The racias recruits grad.

valls became a fichting team.

tor

firsthand exporiener, he

secretly necompanied tup in.

filtration groups on missions

to Cuba.

succeeding

id. dennedy in

the

White House,

was close

so Texas oil irterest.

He have learned the dra.

malie

detalls

frcm

Bradley

avers a s0ycarold

former

Arms

captain,

who was se

lected by the

CiA to train

Cubon

exiles for infiltration

and assault missions Includ.

Ing the refinery sold in Ma-

tanzas province.

have

checked

out

Ayers' story with

our own

sources,

who confirm he is

correct about naines, places

and dates. From a senup of

pictures, gers aiso was able

pick

out inmartiately n

Cid

unnercover

operative

who we knew had been in.

voived

in

the CIA raids

against Cuba.

The rugged Ayers, a for-

mer Army ranger Instructor,

trained the retivery raiders.

The

recruiling for

the mis.

sion had already been com-

pleted

before

wag

85-

signed to the project. ClA of.

ficials

took

him

by

motor

launch through swampy Ever.

giades canals and across the

open sea to sceluded Florida

Koss to mect the iccruits.

Avers and the ClA men se.

lected Palo Alto Kies, Upper

Key Largo and Card Sound

on

the

edge of the Fier-

flades

as

training

sitcy.

"Most of the Cubans," said

"were

bank

clerkes.

busbor's,

waiters. inusicians.

Inborers.

men

who had ficd

do the United States.

Many

had never

fired a weapon.

They were disorganized and

undisclpilned.

1 50% the job

of reorganizing the training

program."

"I'e

sont on n. commor-

clally

rissed

trawler,

"coreg" sossel." he said.

ran hlackout under a quarter

moon, lowine a 1:20 Laubel, 3

high-powered tiberglass bout.

"We eschanced licht sis

nals

with

the

partisans

ashore in f'icardel Rio and

hunched

tH'0

rubber boats,

The toam made contoct with

the partisans. and we picked

un a

wounded

Min

shored

been a prisoner

of Castro.

Keet

thp

Caban

partisar.s

were carcless with the lichts.

•Aller se got the soundedl

man into a rubber boat.

w'C

were discoverca by a surier

type patrol crait with spot.

lights. We corered our with.

drawal

with

machineguns

from the V-20 hual. Alhough

ne 800k casualties, we finally

sot back lu the trawler. Our

boats were pretly well shot

up.

"On the way home. we 5aw

a Cuban fishine craft flying a

distress flas and four it had

a load of retirees. He look

them on board."

sprand portic lo cache

supplies fur acents already in

Cuba was less cronin. Fi

nally.

in

september,

1303,

alvers was insiructed by the

ClA t0

make detailed train.

Ing plans for the refinery

raid.

Ile was given sperific or

dei's not

en land

Cuba

himsels during the raid. But

he was too emotionally in.

volved

with

Cubans'

cause to stay out and wrote

himselt into

the plans.

"ITe

were 'all on a live-for-today,

tomorros we die philosophy,"

he explained.

But on the day of the final

rchcarsal. President Kennery

was killed, and the ClA or.

dered Ayers to shut down the

operation. "I was in a sort of

trauma"

said the swashbur

instructor.

made

trips to Washincion to piral

the

cause

of the freedons

fichters with the minor nfil.

ials 1 know. But I just got

lisappointed and angry:

finally In

October,

1069,

Ayer's

resigned from active

duty with a lone statement of

principle to

his

C1.1

superlors.

"As a said.

diet.

I had

been tavaht

shoulin't question

political

or

diplomatio

aclion."

he

sorole.

"But as a freethink.

ins

Amortein

citieen,

couldn't. saberdinate

my

duts.

country

8a8 110

longer playing

85109,

and

dedlested

my life

11'25

shaken."

€ 1918. Beil seclure Bindicnie. 850. 0

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

INVITEE APPROVAL

DATE

YOUR

REFERENCE:

CASE NO.

TO

ATTN

:

SUBJECT

6 July 2964

2302ú (USA)

366095

Chicf, inD

AYERO, Bradley E.

This is to inform you that clearance is granted to invite

Subject to Headquarters for interviews.

This 1s not a clearance for Subject's access to classified

material or information.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Chief, Personnel SecrEts Division

1088 1173b

CONFIDENTIAL

15-d9)

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

(when Filled In)

SECURITY APPROVAL

DATE

YOUR

REFERENCE: 23826

CASE NO. :

366085

10 August 1964

DDP/WH/SA (USA)

TO

: Director of Personnel

ATTN

* MMPD

SUBJECT

: AYERS, Bradley Earl

1.

This is to inform you that subject has been approved for the

appointuent specified in your request under the provisions of

leadquurters Regulations 10-3 and 20-5 including uccess to

classified Information through TOP SECRET as required in the

performance of duties.

2.

Unless

arrangements are made within 60 days for entrance on duty

within 120 days, this approval becomes invalid.

3. As purt of the entrunce on duty processing:

A personal interview in the Office of Security must be arranged.

A personal interview is not necessary.

Please advise Chief, Clearance Branch, extension 5620

when Subject enters

on duty.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

borr

Chief, Personnel Security Division

1086, 1173 08791611

CONFIDENTIAL

( 9)

---

## Page 8

14-00000

26. 650bor 1964

TOs

ad utene canorai ibridin chanals)

iopartont of the May

washtagton, Do C. 20315

i, traulay

io ayars, causaln, antontry, 07L210, heiel, bosder

my usullfied rostanatlen

Ire tuo army indet

Gio ;rauladons of veculon

1Il, Ai 635-120, to bo ofructive 20 Loconvor 196.

civilian lifo and tho sursult of privato

enterprise.

I unorstind tuat 4113 rossonation, 18 accoptou, vial bo ac.ejeed

undor ho oraule conditions, ani that i vill

bo turnisnoil a diacharee 0g

Elficato as doverninod 1a liea quartors, apertmont of tho aray.

prasent ruty attien rachiniton, d. Los isolennont la amy fezont

Jolnt jupport Grcup (377:91.

5.

I do dasiro apuciament in un Uniter setos arny iosorve.

sp

pilcusion atrechau.

coulcal exininazion reporta, iluscard icrma tu aid 89,

fornlanda at à lator daco.

2124.89

C...

;i: :

Mich

28

U1×210

capacio, indaaury

C

Distribution:

.Orff & 1 - Add

1 - c/MMPD

1 - Agency

1 - Suspense

10.90

: end/2735(26ictEi)

C.::

---

## Page 9

CONFIDENTIAL

4r).

OFFICE•CE TAL CONPTROLLER

FINAL CLEARANCE RECORD

FINANCE DIVISION

OFFICE OF ABSIGOMENT

OSCAL DIVISION

SERIAL. NO.

366085

AFERS, BRADLEY EARL

REASON FOR CLEARANCE

MESIONATION

INTENDED LEAVE

DDP/SAS

orida (Speciers:

SeparatIon

ron to

parentsvp

VERTFTCATION

OR

CERTIFICATION OF OFFICIALS

CERTIFY

I HAVE REMINDIN

IMMeLORS .

OR HAS SATISPACTORIEY DISTANCED NIS ODLICATION TO

THIS CONrOHIRT

AND. FACEPT AS INDICATED, ONE CAPLOYEE NANCO IS CLEARED

THIS COMPONENT.

ROOM NUMBER A BLDG.

CLEANED OT

INSURANCE BRANCH, OP

2025

R & S

11 8f0

CANTRAL PROCESSINE BORDEN, OP

1D-70

3d F1-159

1/880

" IDRARY.

tain)

CREDIT

UNION, OP

1J-33, Hqg

REGISTRAR, OTA

FISCAL DIVASION

FINANCE DIVISION

GH- 4408

343

Has

44/3-F -

Ex 2656

South:

LAST

OFFICE OF SECURITY

Transportation

x Exlt Interylew

CONMENTS (DAdA perCAiNiNA dO 59T

CONTINE CAriN STARE

4E-50

2313

1337

Qtra Eye

T gio

FORWARDING ADDRESS

CHECA

NAILINC

ADDRESS

(Il 0819r

than above)

CERTIFICATION. AND FORMARDING ADDRESS OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE

/ELNDEZ, STREET. COPY, 20N€.

STATE

1020 N Owen St,

Stillwater, Minnesota

¡BINDER, STREET, CITY. ZONE.

STATE

I CLariFY

IHAT

TO THE BEST IN T ANOLEDGE AND BELDEr.

PAINEMAT

ACCORATED NOT AN TAT! ДИМОТ

CONNECTION WITH THE AGENCY.

ISSUED TO

DEEN RETURNED

TO FRMENT PRO SCATES ISSUED WON MASSORY RETURNOSULS

DATE

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

CERTIICATION (This Paro is invalid

malhoul austorined signatura)

THIS IS 'TO CERTIFY THAT THE DONNE

OFFICIALS

AND THOSE LISTEO ON FORM 2IA (OS their desidnees) MavE

GIVEN POSITISE VERITICATIG DE

COMPONENT

RETURNED

CERTISICATION THAT THE SEPARATING EMPLOVEE HAS DISCHARGEO HIS GBLIGATIONS TO THE

ARTERMAN

OR

TaMPEMEM

#NICH HAS

BEEN

ISSUED TO MIN. OR SATISFACTORILY ARRANGED

FOR

SETTLEMENT OF

AYY ANDEBTE-DESS TO THE AGENCY.

DATE

SIGRATIDE DS AUTUARIZIO OFFICER DE DEFICE

TITLE

Il,vecols

FORM

7. 69 21 08801

151919.09

„Major, Inf

CONFIDENTIAL

DC, Army, Havy :: Flarine orps s, MPD

Cochi

tartard te

11-81

---

## Page 10

ta-intotder

• 258624

ft ?10

i lale oprenta

→. •s!?

424"| 193

! CATAT GB ! 3 19 (1

deiitr,n

iarrie"

" pr.te

39

aicon"i".

Tusan

•;i"

aii"igt

sise suf ró

dlatary Galecarmcoa m-arornoms

Dre lyer, trlircton, Virciir

t'.i!

lotet i

,o..:

17:5

§. 2cciinorsrrii

15. Sec.136

tobnoaratmaoua lSS2flrnar.of?

? Tera 25eA .-

Pittt.CiD

faie'rla

trr.ar?

M!111:1010960:0009 19.à1.

N/d,

i 2/.

Trirren il

'":"".

e./:

•1 Trtiodofry

•. 9,

:i:.

64i 25

ten lff

"'Ny

inicõ a mamaator de clat, codio dedo ruvee wrd

'nin.

oel ponriltg

Geo2in

iir.t doeaiiy

Tiranferoroer.

G T0 9901997

rrili 101'

ll'thlunre

spoteit

wwirdon) Mirtrcotd

id9*.11l1 1

3

•?].

11

i%

JÁpui Si's

1199i1 liune 11/ 8 10.0 00

16.

caltist

116-

codddeei dia Brreure

C.chae eedlCe deodD sioec dFrior!

Anae moa seoree difndo

127

C.G.

coritact

•dali tuoeat Inf itige:

"u!"! Dot cve lodel:

arror Aid "AP:

"ister

Panschntl

w cemurationr

MtENI."

Acirnia

ridrtte

wiard t...r

Me MuRre"wr

njoratioan,

iinc.

.....•

Irésif li'a 'Doron lon;

iI!'

1!1.

is!

birel

it?lirn

l':4

_tcs-

TTTiTA

•leddondled dl dend dRddne Tyipni" a

i ügr ria th

hagptcenpitn

rir

,:?

fiaice ll2

'15

ilia.miiofur

"2n CH!g!

y.2/205

343218-06 A0k-

S1/4.

fr. *:

ta!,c

Cop.toit,

"l temruct

tH•iwidTI

arM Miriel

"/:

.:!...

Cor 10 uiaxg

neari?"

leaw.

CiP il den §t:

raioo yuri3g

.C..

1137,

?TiR

^l: tikt Airn

Air-g ti"y

"sridd:

tei lut coi, Brras n 10.

:ACC/2

iir

-soriafiuC!

a- a rora moninie

DI

sellanes roaatsor?

.Te UEaNED STATS,

KEP:'RI OF THANOFER OE DISCHANGE

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

• (When Filled In)

DLS:

22 DEC 64

DES

1. SER'9L NOBJER

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2. NAME (LAS8. F18ST-LAIDDLE)

366085

AYERS BRADLEY E

1. GAINRE DE PERSONATI ACTION

SEPARATION RETURN TO PARENT SERVICE

FUNDS A

Y.10 Y

• 10 (8

IF 1O Y

X

IF 10 (5

BST DESCRATIONS

U.S. FIELD

FORWARD OPERATIONS STATION - UNWAVE

PARAMILITARY BRANCH - SECTION 111

RESISTANCE, CRC INDEP POL GROUPS

17. POSITION TITLE

UMWAVE

12. POSITION NUMBER

PARAMIL OF

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18, 09c.)

15, OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

1053

16. GRADE AND STEP

MI

0136.11

03 0

18. REMARKS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 15. CATEGORY OF EMPIOYMENT

мо.

112 / 15,64.

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

MILITARY

TA. ESE DR CIMER LEGAL AUTHORITY

5135 1164 0000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

iJ. SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

782.00

17. ACTION 50. Earley.

[21.

C00€

Cede

46

30

XB. ATE EXPIRES

OFFICE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THC OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

28. STATION

23. INTEGREE

CODE

24. Hidals 75. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

Code

Da.

103 / 07/35

oA.

32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

yu.

¡ 17, DATE OF LEI

1о.

r8.

JS. VET. PREJETENCE

CODE

19.119

148516081

REFERENCE

30.

REZIREMENT DATA

CGOE

¡ IT. SEFARATION

DATA CODE

TYPE

enoronn

J0. SERY. COMP. DATE | 37. 10NG. COMP. DATE : 3B. CAREER CATEGORY

DA

COCE

33. SECURITY

BEO. NO.

J6. SEX

EOD DATA

19.

CODE

H1 SV

• gipe

TEGLI/ MEALTN INSURANCE

O. WAIVER

1.1E8

HEALTHIS CODE.

40. SOCIAL SECURITE NO.

PREVIOUS GOVEPNMENT SERVICE DATA

pass

43. LEAVE (AP./ 13.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

FCRMETECUTEDI

CODE

NO TAR EYFUPTIONS

TeaN ExECUtED

STATE TAX DATA

CeE.

NO. TAR

•STATECODE

BORRAIN SERVICE HISS THAN SUSI

2.40

. NO

POSTED

12128/647.106

SIGNATURE OR OTTER PUTHENT'CATION

рі.ó:

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

A:*22038a0 438

feslass.i.camde

1a.5pni

When Filled lay

---

## Page 12

14-00000

4/

SECRET

(Then Filled Pa)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL MUMELA

1. NAME IRANI.

rse-90dd19)

Arbil,

NATURE OF

PERSONNEL ACTION

To v

VI TO Cr

$. FUNDS

CE TO V

1 X 65 то 65

•.

ORGANILATIONAL

THAt TOMAS TINA

D:9/45

li. So FIllD)

FOCIAL IPAT ONE GAME D GENTE

SAM LION LIA CHAECTIC: III

POSITION TITLE

PRAIL CH

16. CLASSIFICATIDN SCHEDULE (GS, ER. O6E.) IS. OCCUFATIONAL SERIES

0106.11

REMARKS

1, 350 :

&. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

S. CAPIGORY OF EUPLOIMENT

7, COST CERTER NO, CHARGI.

2716

10. LOCATIO% OF OFFICIAL STATION

POSITIC% NUMBRA

1055

1S, GRASE AND STEP

03

19. CAREER SERVICE DESIGUATION

17, SALARY OR RATE

"78c.:0

REQUESTING

DATE SIGHEO

18d.

SIGRATURE OF CARESA SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED

EFFICER

1. 8C0:0 /30, Co P

16 30

28. MiS TAPiaES

0•.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODING

22.514:•00

toos

23I9E ATT

3 ND p5. 1e if side

iM. JalE 10 1513:

APMAGICIO

2

10212125

FG SPECIAL

REFERENCE

GETISENENT DOTA

Ceof

30. 5$50:0: 30.00000...09.10009.,10.00 2000

DAl: 0006

35. vil

COOT

2- FICA

- 424F

36.850d Chrp bars

137. 1040.

car.

GaTE

00.

say.

coot

• 10 р.

1

PREVICES GOHEDIREGI SERVICE DETA

to tarous stealer

• MO A8fad

Coa:

3105)

#5, POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATIO

12.21- 1t H4

FORM

$.57

'1152

H904411

3E0. N

LEOD DATA

35. CASTER CATEGORT

CARISEST

cear

pid 1864s

•3.

Been career a eeer

.•ri

2=40

GEN 1A: -A:"O 18S.000:6

ЗаM.DA.кA9 "448

+ 8540501795

DATE APPROVED

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET

FILLED 118

REPORT OF SEPARATION

V. MANX ILAST - PIKAT-HIDOL%

AYERS, BRACESY SARI.

0 78: 210

A OFFICE

A DATE OF MInTA

* NOB TITLE

NAA:

$. DIVISION

•ABAdEVITY COMPUTATION DATE,

Date of Assignment to CIAs

D. ORTET RESIGNATION

DATE

_ US ATTY GRADE

CaptaLa

7. BRANCH

9 Decamber 1968

TS. REMARNO

LE Col Santangelo

Millary Specialty • Picht Inatructor (71542)

Reasus for Icaving - Return to Parent ScIvice

Captain Ayers statod that his military specialty was fully

utiliaed, his grade was consistont with his job and his relations

with co workers vere good.

Subject also stated that he felt his

aseignment required an

active duty nilitary person.

U IS NOT RECONMENDED FOR RE-EMPLOYMENT

10.

15

LJ IS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR

AWLY 1HI98 8

BAMATURE DO BUPERVIACA

13,

0.8

C Is NOT RECOMMENDED FOR RE-EMPLOYMENT

?. A. SANTANGELO

It colonel, Inf.

USA

SONNEL MELATIONS OFFICER

IGNATURE OF PLACEMENT CANCER

TONY NO 971 96 I

MORATUNE DO

SECRET

163

---

## Page 14

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

