# 104-10172-10223

## Page 1

104-10172-10223|

UNCLASSIFICO

SOPT. Réaaat

PIOMG

IATERNAL

"E ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEFT

I CONFIOENTIAL

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

SECRET

EITCN

Becky

To rogther domoren

авае, 0re

T-HB

C/S5/23

748

shugh (830-6809

CASRCVE

SR/CI/X (John MaN)

SR/CIR (Bocky)

"NNO FOR TE RECORD

22 Ang 63

ĐAN

BCMIO

OHORS

s8p- 63 sur. ii

.. sihe

1Q

11.

12.

12.

18.

13.

roen 610 semnas SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

fer AJLADI 5'S 201

(201-09,733)

TERN

$ ом1т

• UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

22 Augest 1963

MENO FOR THE RECORDS

STEJECT: METADLE

prepared for to Hatreng or 221uust, Mr. Stoln askod that a bries bo

use in briefing Attorney inneral Kennedy, the

had just recoved a call fron dElADLE.

2. Attachod is a thermolax of & copy of the briel prepared for

It was based prinarily on two manosch fro

201). We also attached a cory of WE/DC's leno datod 17 July 63 (co in 201)

which was a "arogress repert" on AlADil's activitlos in the Uk up to that

3. In the course cf assambling naterials needed, I learned the

followings

Steve Kuhn, (fMice of Security (red line 1250) is failiar

with the case (be calls APLADIE "The Prince of tales"!), and

has instructiong to be on the alert for calls coring in

Fe has also determined thru hig INS sources

that AFTADLE and feally are now in the linited Statos.

D) ATLADIE has given the address of hia Virginta house (now

occupded by other tasants) as a referance. His present address

18 not known. (i'm not sure who told me this, possibly Steve Kuhm).

o) No attempt has been made to contact AELADLE by i

d) Ray Rocca of CI Staff seened to be the person ti

fron Jin tint who was on leave today) who knows any!

substantive abort the daLADlE case.

lebecca Clarke

R/CI/

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

22 August 63

ASTADLE had a rooting with Attorney General Kennedy

for copy of tape transcript of this meeting, see

tape transcript fIles - "SPECIAL TAPES"-

---

