# 104-10087-10130

## Page 1

104-10087-10130

DO files on WerBell

Te tig

Reported by Irving Richard Poyle: (doctiment dated in Jamiary 1974).

Anselmito Aliergro is reportedly.working for WerBell... Allegro and one…..

"Jerry Patrick". are reportedly carrying CIA identification and telling

Cubans in Miami that they and WerBell are CIA. Repordedly had a business

on 8th Street and sold ga guns.

Letter from Edwin Marger re: clarification of WerBell's 201 request, dated

30 Dec 1975 sats that MW was in "Cuba tat the time of the Castro Military

Operation", Dominican Rupublic during military operation, Thailand and'

Vietnam®

FOIA reguest routing Isip, dated 17 April, 1975 says that werBells POA

was granted so as to use him as a source woo on revolutionary matters in

"the Carribbean area, specifically Cuba and the Dominican Republic.".

POA granted 4 August 1959. POA was cancelled in Oct 1959 resuckx at

the request of WHD "as use of the Subject was no longer contemplated. "0002319

Dispatch from Chief of JMWAVE to Chief of WH dated 13 Jun 1966:

"According to his file WerBell appears to be a low level, would-be con man

who has a history of being involved in Castro assassination schemes and of

provessing to be connected, or at least in contact with KUBARK. According

'Livingtson' was Involved with Antonio Veciana's

alleged assassination ploy and he was masquerading as a KUBARK officer....

2. "Ilvingston' has as yet failed to call on AMRZAZ/I as he had promised

Cogswell In New York City." signed by Philip G. Elmard.

Dispatch no dayte , j by Elmard:

James Cogswell ials a NY attorney immort mentioned in connection with

raising funds for Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo.

"b. Antonio Veciana Blanck (201-312966) - Born 18 October 1928 in Havana.

He is a public accountand by profession. He is titular head of Alpha 66

and a member of MRP and SFNE.

He lives in Puerto Rico. He has a cryptonym

and is of marginal operational interest to JMWAVE CI Branch as a source of

information obtained by AMKnob/1 for the CUIS." date is probably around

same time as preivious as has same subject heading and concerns same

people oßeration, etc.

Contact report dated 25 April 1966:

"Cogswell told (am)Razz that he

was expecting Antonio Veciana at that moment.

Veciana, Cogswell saidn, was in a plan to assassinates Figel Castro. Details

of the plan were lacking. Beciana wanted Cogswell to introduce him to a man

known andly as FNU Livingston, form 'Wintson, Massachusetts.' Cagswell's

sister, mane unknown, who works in Washington, DC-presented livingston to

Cogswell about a ponth ago. Beciana showed up while Cogsell and Razz were

talking. Veciana surprise at seenig Razz was astounding. In private, Veciana

•...Cogsewll told Razz that on Sunday night, 17 April, he had introduced

Veciana to Livingston.

The latter two had spoken in private after which

veciana came away very pleased byt did not disclose anything except that he had

a plan to assassinate Castro."

Cogstell "will be remembered

Pelaez! plot to kill Castro.„Is being invalved in fund raising for the "prince-

MW requested CIA permission for an attempt of Fidel in January, 1966.

The permission was requeseted in December 1965.

MW reported he was taking a group of about 6 Cubans in to get Fidel and

Raul at a big rally in Havana.'

MW also discused plan with one Richard Phillips, Public Affairs Officer,

Department of state. His boat was equiped

I with morters.

SECKLI

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2

MW contacted "occasionally at headquarters" before his POA revoked. It was

revoked because "it was determined that he had no worthwhile information to

offer nor was he able to develop any.

He was assessed by Headquarters as a

'wheller dealer' type with considerable intelligence but unable to realize

much success in Bromotion work and that his approaches to KUBARK were designed

primarily to obtain financial support." Dispatch UFGW-5572 dated 28 sept 1965.

also sats that in May of 62 was in Managus as vice president of Communicattions

International Itd attempting to sell surplus arme. Was also attempting to sell

an "International Investigation Service". Attempts were unsaccessfilu.

In December of 64 was reported in Dominican Republic inassociation with

Finca/Frutas intercontinentales, CaPOr A.

Cable from JMBARR ts (Wave Cite Barr 2232) dated 28 Sept 65:

AMSWIRL/1 said that WerBell was a crew member on Venus and worked with

"JURE GrOup".

DispatchUFGA-23126 dated 2;0 Sept 1965 reportst MW's connection with AMLEO/3

and his group.

AMLEO-3's sister contacting her uncle, Emilio Nunez Portuondo to help since

AMTE0$3 has been captured by GOC.

Cable to Mana from DIR (12828) dated 16/8/62 says "Relationship IN(with MW)

terminated on friendly basis October 1959. KIKUBARK opinion EWerBell wished

use KUBARK fuads to promote his personal interests. His intel not highly

regarded." Cabled released by J.C.King, Authenticated by William K. Harvey.

Cross reference to a doucument (Guat-02709?) that sez MW back in Guatamala

and is presing GOG to make "United Organizations for Liberation of Cuba

the basis for Exile governement in Dec. 1962. Pressure being amplied through

Ydigoras son.

Memo for file, Dated 18 February 1963 reports WerBell and Arthur L. Smith

were attempting to Get Guatemala, Nicaragua, and El Salvador to recognize

a de facto Cuban government in exile caled "United Organization alfor the

Iiberation of Cuba:" head of organization was Mario Garcia Kohly (provisional

president) WerBell reportedly offered $100,000 to Nic Govt. Also associated

with group were Frank M. Austin, Marshall R. Diggs, Manuel Fuego (aka Firestone)

and Col. John F. Kieffer.

Unless subsequently noted this is theonly document for 1963.

0002320

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Guat 2441 dated 1 Sept 1962:.

3

SECRE!

0002321

Mayor. of Miami Robert King also involved in trying to unite Cuban exiles, was

meeting with-Ydigoras and was backing group called Consejo Reolucionario Cybane

Salv.4225 dated 24 Aug-19620........

Tony Verona visits President Rivera on 21st. Reports Kohly has been a rival

of Miro Cardona and Varona elemants. Admits Kohly Anti-Castro but &

says he

is probably trying to sabotage Varona's efforts or "gain ascendancy"

Guat 2426 dated Aug 22, 62 reports WerBells arrival and that he is accompanied

by on Lucy Luchien.

Wave 7169 dated 17 Aug 1962 says:

"files relfetc Mario Garcia Kohly previous maneuvers over long period to

obtain financial support from Kubark and Odoath.

Overtures turned donn

basis unfounded claims. Detailed Investigation made by Mr. Robert Andrews.

NAUT

DIR 80830637 dated 17 August 1962:

"Garcia Kohly, WerBell, and Smith are well known Kubark Has and considered to

be wheelers and dealers, peddlers of grandiose schemes, and unscrupulous.

Garcia Kohly is well aware of Odyoke opposition to Cuban Govt in exile as

result his persistent tho unsuccessful efforts sell self and Govt in exile

concept to Odyoke and private Pbprime businessmen past two years."

Gua t 2423 dated $21 Aug 1962:

reports ‹werBell involved in an earlier effort to sell arms and provide

anti-commie mercenaries to Guat.

16 Aug 62, Mana 4029 reports tha t group planning invasion for mid-august.

Organization in Cuba called Junta CIvica Militiar Cristiano (JCMC) and the

exile chief is one Colonel Jose Pinexiro Patz. Thsi cable reports that

NIc wants to sign the protocal. (they eventually of course don't)

Guat 2412 dated 15 Aug 62:

Smith thas cards showing him as Vice President of Faraday Techinical Corp.,

228A SW 2nd Ave., Miami.

Reports that on I J.A. Kakane aond Josi Euleterio

Pedraza Cabrega •

WerBell and Kane were in Guat in May 62 offering to sell

small arms and mercenaries.

DIR 29811 dated 14 Aug 62 reports tht MW travelled to Dominican Republic in

as of June 60

was a member of Jones and Handy Marine Architect Firm, Miami. Smith travelled

to Cuba several times between Jamuary 1959 and March 1960. Firm waas working on

a steel mill in Oriente province. One "Piner

who may be travelling to Guat. Reports that "Major Manuel Pineiro Losada is

that this is the one involved because the difficulties he would have in

traveling to Guat.

Wave 6830 dated Aug 11, 62 reports thta MW iax was involved in Plan to ship

arms to Ecuador "for attempted overthrow there by CP." this according to one

Patrick J. Karnley, At time COS in San Jaun.

Guat 2406 reports that MW and Simth art in Guat awaiting the arival of one

"Colonel piniero, aka Conmandante Barperosa.

"dated 9 Aug 1962

---

## Page 4

14-00000

4 SECRET

0002222

Mana 3949 dateed 21 May 1962 says that MW and Manual Firesotne trying to sell

Mato Surpluss weapons.

Memo for Record dated 13 October 1959: MW called him on 9/25

to l report a big meeting of "heavy financiers of the opposition to Castro'

to be held in DC during week of 9/28.

ted an at need or ate is atla: of Be thart and INU Sanchez

recommends to C/WH/III that "we either terminate Subject or put him to work"

termintated for following reasons:

"a. his motivation is obviously to use the Agency as and source of financing

for his personal business schemes.

b. As an American his access to full information on Cuban revolutionary

activities will alsways be limited. This is borne out by the fact that his

information, while indicating some access, has been incomplete and obviously

second of tatra hake."to Mi on 20/2:

"I told subject that after due consideration of the risks to him, the const

in time and effort to him, and the risks and expenses involved for the Agency,

balanced against assets generally available throughout the intelligence community

and his access to additional information, 1t had been decided not to give him

any operational tasks at this time,. I suggested that since the bulk of the

matters which come to his attention in connection with the Cuban matter take

place in the united States, he should report such information to the FBI.

Subject

appeared to understand that we would not use him and expressed his regret.

The

conversation ended on a friendly note."

memo for the record dated 23 Sept 1959: Werbell reports that "Joe

Merola and a number of others have been discussing the counterfeiting of United

States dollars and Cuban pesos for use in connection with Cuban revolutionar

activities."

F suggests he tell FBI and MW says he will. MW reported back

that FBI referred him to SS. Taxes

memo for record dated 5 Aug 59:

"Althoguh the has been evasive and obviously not completely frank with us,

It appears tha WerBell does have access to information of interest on Cuban

and Dominican Revolutionary activities aimed at against the Castro Government, a

and that he is well conencted with the underworld elements operating in the

Miami area."

Memo also notes that Flores has learned of POA.

memo for hte Record dated 5 August 1959:

Report from AMBOAR that William Morgan is involved in a plot to assassinate

Castro. (Subject is telephone conversations with "Reichhardt".) also has

this paragraph:

"Reichlardt said tha t he was out of touch also with Nunez

Portuondo.

He said he had tried to phone Nunez on a number of occasions

but the phone was not answered. Discreet inquires in Mimai also indicated

that Nunez' location is unknown at this time. Reichahrat said he is still

holding the letter from Col. King to Nunez."

Documents also indicate that werBell was providing information on A "General

Pedraza who was in the Dominican Republic in 1959 trying to organize anti-

Castro activities. Involved with Pedraza was Rolondo Masferrer.

MW was reporting that Masferrer was one of Pedraza's contacts in the US.

Undated memo for throlictextrmwH/C/OPS: on "call from Mr. Dick Phillips

(state) regarding the Arrest of jAMLEO-3. :

SECREI

---

## Page 5

14-00000

risin:

46., 53

1..?......!..

"The three Cubans that WerBell reported arrested are Jose-Ricardo Rabel Nunez

(Amleo-3.), Gilberto Fondore- and Miguel Ramos. These men were crew members of

the JURE mother vessed Venus From JMWAVE. reports it appears that AMLE0-3

was attempting to exfiltrate his family, using the venus, when he was caught

by Cuban security formes on 3 September 19;65.

Various memos show that MW reporting on Joe Marola.

0002323

SEGRET

---

