# 104-10172-10201

## Page 1

104-10172-10201

RETURNTO CHA

Eactiground Use Only

• Do Not Paproduce

CONI ENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

"ERNAL

Ual ONLY

SURECT. Opened!

AEINDLE

FROM

se/ci/k -

i not driestion

"CiR and A

ROLTING AND RECORD SHEET

ENTASAT

0.3

DATE

TKHOM

RbROCCa

2

SECRET

15 ilor to

For your retition.

e/er

18 NOV 85

e1/S16 no Jau

10.

11.

18.

12.

13.

SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

251.99.288

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

SUBJECT:

DOI

:

02

AESTORAGE NO. 1060

AELADLE

1961 - 1963 or 1964

0z

NOTE: (AESTORAGE represents a collation of information

provided by several reliable and sensitive sources,

some of them documentary. AESTORAGE information 18

not to be released outside of the Clandestine Services

Components of CIA unless written authorization has been

granted by C/SR/CI. 02 AESTORAGE Information may be trans-

mitted to CIA field stations only after it has been

coordinated with C/SR/CI.

Source transited Helsinkl in May 1961, at which time he

obtained a visa at the soviet Embassy from one

Beginning

about his contacts with the XGB Legal Residency in Helsinki.

Source prepared a written report giving in detail the physical

description of all KGB officorg who had met him in Helsinki®

2.. In 1963 or 1964 Source was told by the KGB that it was

unlikoly he would ever he assigned en the Unitad States as a

Soriot who had defected in Helsinki could personally identify

Source.

Distribution:

Or18 & 1 : DE/AR/E

DC/ SR/CI

SR/CI/1

1: 58/01/5

SR/CIDI:

03

Jaje

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISS

Frank,

After further

research + lengths

discussins, AEStREE

HAESAMSHU, PROTECT

the i At Digroph only.

21 APr98

5/V

---

