# 104-10169-10146

## Page 1

104-10169-10146

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

RE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEEN

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional

FROM.

Statement repared by AFLADLE

Ch101, SR/CI

TO: (Offcer designation, room number, and

bullding)

DATE

FFICER:

NITIAL:

FOrWARDED

NO

DATE

SH/CI 12 Report #21

3 January, 2068 07

COMMENTS ON in at catam one or to comment,

• whom.

2.

201-294,855 (ARTADLE)

Johin

SLURLI - RYBAT

10.

RETURN TO CIA

Beckground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET - RYBAT

18.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED.

---

## Page 2

SECRET - RYBAT-

3 January 1962

SR/CI 12 Report #11

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJBCT: Statement Prepared by AELADLE

The folloving statement was dictated by AELADLE on 27 December

1961. Due to technical difficultles, the transcription of hia

statement ie incomplete.

"As it 18 known to you, my decision to go over to the

West wae made by me practically since back in 1955.

There-

fore, since that time I have studied the entire activity

of ail the Soviet (intelligence) organs, life in the Soviet

Union from thia stundpolnt or from this angle. I try to

think of hou,

in the future, when I would go over to the west,

bow I could help the west in the organizing of the cold var

against the Soviet Union, against the regime that exists in

tbe Soviet Union and the other countries behind the Iron

Curtain.

Therefore all these juestions vere thought out by me

very carefully in a historical plane, a political plane, an

Intelligence plane, and a counterintelligerce plane.

:that this step has already been taken by me, I have been ex-

pecting that your important people, people'o! authority in

your authoritative organizations.

the most, authoritative in

the country, will give du consideration to my proposale and

myself.

I have been expecting that right from the beginning

thie whole thing will be considered political haste. The

lenders of your country, after they become convinced that I

made this step on the basis of most sincere cunvictions and

this I have proven by, for example, by giving all the information

concerning Finland, --I thought that after that it will be

of great interest to leaders of your country to hear me out

on the beelc queations concerning things that are taking

place in the Soviet Union, on questione which represent the

threat to the Western countries from the Soviet Union und

other countries behind the Irun curtain. Un these subjecte

which I personally may be of help in the future, I thought

that

this case would be of seat Interest to the President.

SI CRET - RYBAT

---

## Page 3

bin is 1008-18

Is Report fll Contimed

Page 2

thought that the most serious attention will be given to this

whole affair.

I thought that right after the step that I took,

they vould hold a meeting of the National Security Counell,

during which I would be able to report to tbe members of thie

Council on all the political and otber activities. I expected

that I would be given the possibility of appearing before de

Rational Security Council, and to repor. to the organ which 1o

concerned with the security of the U. S. A., what la being done

nong the line of intelligence, at least of intelligence eginst

the United States and other democratte countries, in urder that

*he people responsible for the security of the United States

would at last understand what a great danger the Soviet Unie:

represents; the great danger that the Sovlet Union represents

to the United States and to the West as a whole because I m

certain, that wha'. I know, what I could report is of great

Interest is far as the organization,

the measures that have to

be token and the struggle againat this danger are concerned.

Secondly, I thought that my defection to the West, my plans

concerning my help to the leat in organizing a struggle sgaine:

the Soviet system, against Soviet Intelligence, againat the

Boviet Pallee, would be of great interest tu other democratic

countries ruch as England, France, West Gerunny and Otberg. I

thought that the President would fiad 1t possible to Invite

for a short counsel, the beade of govermenta of otber demo-.

cratic countries, ao tiat I rould also be able to report to all

of them on what 18 being done by the Soviet Union against these

countries, sa vell ss againat the West ae a vhole, because I

Inow that on tbe basia of my report, it would be posaible to

take more effective and important counter-masured.

EDWARD W. KNOWLES

C/SR/CI

Distribution:

Va riganal (Record Copy)-JID Pile 174-6-496/4 (L2 Rewrt Chrono)

1 - Chief,

SR

1 - Chief, CI

1 - DC/CI

Added distribution:

: - SR/COF

C1/00/s3

Chief, WE

Chief,

SR/CI

RID FIle 474-6-496/3 (AELADLE Operations)

201-294, 855 (AELADLE)

1-288 jares.

EPORT BASED ON: AEZAULE TApe #6, Part II, 27 Decembor 1963.

SFERET -RYRAT

---

