# 104-10423-10003

## Page 1

1104-10423-10003

LIST (INCOMPLETE) OF REQUESTS FROM THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION FOR ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION FROM THE CIA

26 November 1963

Subject: Richard Thomas GIBSON

(Paraphrase) • During the

26 November, INANITION 11) passed to the

FBI representative in Bern a report

(quoted in full in the cable).

The FBI

representative immediately notified

ELMARD (P) and after discussing the con-

soonest.

ELMARD emphasized the utmost

importance the United States Government

attached to follow-up

of this matter.

ELMARD received prompt answers to initial

questions and arranged to meet with

officials in company with

the FBI representative in Bern

[BERN 2492 (IN 68312), 26 November 1963]

28 November 1963

3 October 1963.

dod ars band epost about five thousand

(DIR 85654, 28 November 1963]

---

## Page 2

13-00000%

1196

_is alsa instrucrive ra note

that CIA Director John McCONE telephoned

FBI DiXECION HOOVER on the morning of No-

vember 26, 1963,

and after noting

that the

President wanted to make sure the CIA was

giving the FBI full support, specifically

Noffered to make: 'CIA's: operational resources

in

Mexico!:

available to the Bureau.

The Committee has seen no evidence that

the FBI-asked the CIA ito conduct an investi

gation or gather informacion on the assassi

nation case, but middle-level CIA personnel

did routinely provide the Bureau with infor

nation that came to their attention in the

assassination. case.u=

Footnoto

:96

page 39

Coment:

¿ Herewich an incomplete list ofirequests From. cho FBI

for assistance and information fcon the CIA, The list Speaks

for

26 November 19633

Subject

Richard Thomas. GIBSON

(Paraphrase) During the

120287750

afternoon /of: 26

Hovember INANITION/ 17 passed to the FBI

representativerin Bern a report. (quoted

in full in tho cable) Tha FBI roproson

tative immediately notified ELMARD (P)

and after discussing the content of rhe

report it was agreed that ELMARD would

CORRACE INANICION SOONEST, ELMARD eM

phasized the utmost importance the US

Government attached to follow-up of this

matter. ELMARD received prompt answers

Ato initial questions and arranged to meet

WiCh Ch:YNANTTION/Z0, TNANTTYON/6 in company

with the FBI representative in Bern.

(BERN 2492 (IN 68312), 26 November 1963

28 November 1963

Subject:.

Rumored $5,000 bank deposit

made bỳ OSWALD upon return from Mexico

on 3' October 1963-

The EBI has just levied on us an official

frequest for

full information on source

and origin of rumor about five thousand

dollars bank deposit.:

E8A.

[DIR 85654, 28 November 1963]

---

## Page 3

13.00900

28: November 1963

Subject enterrogation es Gilberto ALVARADO:

The FBI liaison

officer (S. PAPICH) offi

cially advises that the FBI requests CIA

urn ALVARADO over to Mexican authorities

and that CIA request the Mexican authori

Cres to interrogate ALVARADO in detail.

FBI reports that it understands that the

Mexican authorities have a capability of

Dotygraphing and requeses that CiA re?:

quest Mexican authorities

that he be poly:

graphed

The Fir expressed & desire to have the re

sults of the interrogation as soon as possi

610 and that the Legal Attache bo kept

advised

of developments

[DIR 85663,

; 28.

November 1963]

29 November 1963

Subjects

Ricardo SANTOS

Mr PAPICH referred me to DIR 85665, 28 November

or that the thra secretary on the cuban t

Embassysin The Hague, Ricardo SANTOS, has a pro

CASTRO brocher in the United States. He stated

that he rould appreciate our checking our files

or taking such other steps as may be indicated

to provide

tho Buroau with the identity of the

brother said to be inache Us

(Memorandum From CI/SIG to Chief, KH/3,

29

Novembers 196311

9

December :1963

Subjects Chinese Communist and CASTRO Plot.

s4 Sons 1x05eger

At 0900 on 9 December 1963" Mr. PAPICH of the

FBI called and advised that the Bureau had a

commont cacion from their Miami field office.

setting forth information which had been re-

ceived in a memorandum from our office ing

Miami concerning a report which had been re

ceived fron a Hostorn diplomat alloging that

the assassination of President Kennedy was the

result of a plot prepared and executed jointly

by the Chinese communists and CASTRO through

incermediaries.

MY. PAPICH stated that the Bureau would like

to evaulate

this information if

possible

He

said the Bureau was very much

interested in

identifying the

source and It would

appreciate

any information we can give on where and hoi

his diplomat got this information since i

would help the Bureau to evaluate this informa

tron.

He said that the Bureau would find the

---

## Page 4

13-000,00

identity

ofs the

source

and possible access

80 the:

source

diffin this country?

i nostr

helpful.

[Memorandum for the Record,:

1963: Subject:

Lee Harvey OSkAl December

18; December: 1963

•Subjecte

Nomenclature of weapon possibly

owned by Lee Harvey OSWALD."

10024475019

nOn:

18 December 1963 a-representative of your

Bureau requested claritying iiormation about

certain Soviet nomenclature believed to refer

tora firearm once possessed in the Soviet Union

by Lee

OSWALD.

We were

asked. to determine what kind of veapon

Oned by lee Haxvey OSWALD. 1214

January 1964

seen des

Che By on December 211909 dater shie

1963, a letter which

had beer orwarded to friend of his named.

Jose Antonio Juan. Mr. Juan had received the

tester from his son living in Cubas

In the letter the statemont was made,

known here that RUBINSTEIN was here a little

Bess than a jear ago visiting a Me PRANSKL

car a on sode sales be tense artieres

Irocadero opposite the Sevilla. Biltmore."

through available sources

do your Ages, you develop way tote mationes

possible relating to the above quoted statement

Fin an effort to resolve the allegation that

Jack-L RUBY has possibly visited cuba since

1959 and has connections there:

1ga.C9

TFBT Memorandum to.

co che DDP,

dated " January

1964 Subject: Jack L.- RUBY,

g January

• 1964

Subject:

21941 375328

Lee Harvey OSWALD

Attached is a copy of a memorandum from the...

Federal Bureau of Investigation on Lee Haxvey

OSWALD dated 31 December -1963

and an

enclosure

to the memorandum containing names and addresses

found in OSWALD's address book and other papers

•at the

time of his arrest in Dallas, Texas.

will be noted that the Bureau has

asked us

10

---

## Page 5

13.00000:

determing whether any of the listed

names

Soviet, intelli

gence services

(Memorandun for Chief. OS/SRS,

"dated 9 January

1963; Subjece:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.]:

-spiciorat

January 1964

Our Chief.of

Station in Mexico dispatched Cable MEXI

CIN 982731 edusing of a request on the part of the legal

Actache for the development of information Concerning one Daniel

(SOLIS' knowledge of ROJAS

whose name appears to be Ylario ROJAS

C2580372

Ma 31 year old Mexican citizen residing in Guadalajara

and

information concerning the names of Cubans. appearing;

зл

alored nosebook hid to be, in the possossion of 5005,

and an e

ossaclaMos che American Government. Said to have been in

contact. with

Memorandu

Record,

dated 15 saman

319649

Subject

7. February 1964-

Subject

Eladio

ROJAS Villanueva:

The rgg au Actache, in

Mexico city would prefer that the

CoS tell Luis ECHEVARRIA, acting minister of gobernacio, name of

subject and that wich ROJAS: agreement plan to give him a polygraph

and promise ECHEVARRIA a brief statement of the resukts of the test

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer have the

polygraph given in Mexico City; he could, if CIA Strongly prefers

get their headquarters and subject's agreement to go to Texas.

222108-2963282196

[MEXI - 81175(IN 15081)e

7 February 1964]

12 February

"1964

Legal Artache (in Mexico City) requests the following

additional questions be put to Daniel soLis:

vertry It sorts has received two letters

recently from Eladio ROJAS Villanueva aka Eladio

VILLANUEVA regarding notebook.

---

## Page 6

3-00000

AS SOLIS to forwaTs notebook if found to:

COME O JOHNSON Consutado Americano, Guaga

ajara, Jalisco

Lesters in possession of VILLANDEXA

cate

he has in Cozumel wich Daniel SOLIS for

Leas tethree months in 1963. Can SOLIS re-

cail dates?

TAsk'"SOLIS if VILLANUEVA was in contact with

Cubans or Americans while in Cozumel. Ask him

how VILLANUEVA occupied his came

(MEX1-8194 (IN 18129) 12. February 196401

25 Februay - 1964

subject Jacker RuBY

advise o any

ond co vort cy chis travel-by-RuBY un

Memorandum so Me Kyone con NeS CoTT, deted 25 Fobruary 1964..

Exon ClarK DE ANDERSON

Alegal Aerache (Mexico CIty) Subject,

Jack L.

RUBY -

13 April: 1964*

-Subjectey Lee Harvey OSWALD'S Access to Classified

Information about che U?:

Reference is made to your lecter dared

April 1964, captioned Lee Harvey, OSWAlDEn

nal security

Russia cubal and to the

trachment,

which contained statements made

one Eugene J. HOBBS;

HMC, USN. Your letter

requestod certain Incormation regarding sub-

-ject's Marine assignment at the Naval Air

Stacton,

Atsugi, Japan, -

in 1957 and- 1958.

Memorandun for Director

Federa

Bureau of Investigation

dated 13 May 19640:

A 1964 From CIA:

---

## Page 7

13-00000

10 June 1964:

Subject

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

BLESS

believed this allegation that

122004125

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco, should

SERMOS

invost gated and you are requested to

conduce the necessary inquiries 36 pos

_Inasmuch

42x0k

as appears that the President's Commi

1250073

C26SEA0P0S

ssion contemplates the issuance of its re

22021

porcin the near future, it is believed

this matter should be handled expeditious ty us

5168490403002390-256

Memorandum to Director, Central Intelligence Agency Attention:

Deputy Pirector Pians, dated LO June 1964 from Director,

28 July 1964

Subjects Lee, Harvey OSWALD

new of the foregoing factors, it woul

30,

apprectated tE you would review material

aver ablo to you concerning che activity ox

Radio Moscow 1128-

effort to dentify che

two-minute broadcast referred to by OSWALD

4442570240922

inche aforementioned documents.

We would also appreciate advice as to the

2332

telephone number in 1959 and the current

telephone number of Radio Moscow and we would

appreciate advise as to whether or not tele

phong number v 3658s was Tisted In the 1959

Moscow

Telephone Directory.

would appear to us that XE OSWALD partici-

pated

In agradio program.

284273

Radio Moscow,

this

fact would have been known to

the KGB and a Te

rexen

to such participation would likely have

---

## Page 8

13-00000

7.2i8

or would be appreciated if you would question

NOSENKO in lighe of the foregoing observations

In this regard it is suggestod that NOSENKO not

be informed of aswALD's possession of the name,

tress and telephone number oc toy SETYAEV HA

3: 2-255223

(Memorandum for Director, Central Intelligence Agency, Attention:

Deputy Director Plans: Subject:

Lee Harvey, OSWALD:

Taternal

Security&

Russia

1302

i the cunn

Cuba; from Direcror,

---

