# 104-10172-10204

## Page 1

104-10172-10204

ROUTING AND. RECORD SHEET

• INSTRUCTIONS

26 EMA 1372

PRIOR TO FUNG

Fill in Sect 2. on back Delach back lap

and lorward to RID

Destrey front cover short uales it. records

signilicant action lakes or rumments requir:

ing preservation:

FROM:

TO ACTION BRANCH

"i ble so. and title showa are not proper,

tasert proper lile no bojow and forward

document to RID: AN

MENO

RID!

IF/AIR

EXT. 730%

CX-219.

GASO

TUSE GT3

•TO ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IF SECTION I ON BACH. I APROPRAYE

E REG

TO

100м

CI/ESEC

0 5 APR 1972

fraie."

Ent:

Miler

10.411.4 би

DC/C/II APREL

c/ell

JUN 1972

SAleioP

1.6

¿fer sig

15 Jum

DOG, MICRO. SER.

MAR 28 19T2

MICROFILMED

file.

Q.

12.

Restinion.

pentry

lui prients with

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Rea

17

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE NICHORNEO

410n

VIA N01H0O48

ABSTRACT

INDEA

•FILE P:PLE

• NOTRIPRIMAG

10i -9978.8

LOCUNENTDATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

22

29722 72

DELA) 54618

IIBR

SECRET

1401

---

## Page 2

4o musc

•SUN, ACTION

LARKED FOI

DISPATCH

SECRET/RYBAT

Chief: NONUSE

Chief, Soviet Bloc; Chief,. European Dirision

CAME AJOGI

Chief of Station,

REDLEG ARSISH - Anatolty MIkhay Lovich COLITSYN (201-204806)

ACTION MRIED - BEFLELNCIS

ACTION REQUIRED:

FYI

REFERENCE:

None

1P05 MGRO TEN

1449 25 1372

0Z

01

Attached herewith is a JAGUAR report of debriefing of

CAESMASH regarding the repercussions

to the défection of

ASHAND

Attachment:

H/W

JAGUAR] Report

01

Distribution:

- C/NOMUSE, hw/att

2 - C/SB, hw/att

3. - C/EUR, hs/att

/ A.T.T.

CRISS

230-95619

D 24 6 156/+

• C COPY

DESPATON SYRIDOL MIC DAMAGE

22(05LA) 54618

SECRET/RYBAT

RAR 22 1972

20 March 1972

NOS PAL MARR

401-99788

201-391855

GIBR

---

## Page 3

SECRET

0N20172

MIC.

Tor 25.0.20310:

Desceted in Finland 19.12.1851.

GorItst defeated during mine in meied of cervise with the sol.D.

Sounce heard about hia finia various X.0.D. officora but never mt hin

and area of his only by this nare

Of COLITSYN 0O KLIOV.

Sho heard hin ntory shen she visited her parentb

In Finland and, while thoro, cho met COLliSYNin wife who called on hor

nothere

with rugard to COLITaIN's defostion, source seld he had been told

In London by both Konatontin Iunovlen 2010V. hood of KoG.A. Jornel ?

(Counter Intelligence) there,

and gainer likhazlorach cowbol, tin X.C.d

officer responthlo for thin Sike, that COlItStil, whoss job in Finland

soire described on "Nranch 2 or nonothing, had eleched violently with

hio Resident In loloinkl.

le troto & muber of official and private

lottors to Honcoy esking that either he o= tho Reaident do Ercnaferred.

loadgunrters rohiold to agroo this, and uhon ho visited roscow threatened

that 1f ho Infled-to cot on with tho Roaldont ho would. be in danger of

losing his 10b.:

Thio no too such for COLITSYN, so he defented.

edded that thin roacon for COLITSYN's dofection was convinoing, end that

ho had notor hoard any sumour that it no not cemine.

Source gavo tho folloming infomation nbout the soauros taken by .

the X.G.B. an the rocult of CoLIISTN'o dofeotiont

(a) - Ho had boen centonced to death this ras stated in an artiale

in nho Chokint" which annearod somo time after 1954.

Tho K.G.B.

would.try to kill him ao noon as thry could find him.

(b) Within air wooka of COLUneVa arrival in london on 12.6.74. ho

told sourco that ho had reccivod n tolecua fra Herdquarters ordorin:

him to concentrato on obtaining inforcition nhout coLlisin, (to whor

tho KiG De had fiven tro abusiva nioknano UROD, because reconting to

their Infonation GOLITSIN hed ilatted ngland dereral tians, and whtl

thay had nor eatablighnd "tho placo of recidenes" they had no sapronel

to hire Loocou ruquind dotailod infomation about whero ho uno livi

hia habits and notivition.

From tho varding of thie telecran douroe

---

