# 104-10063-10007

## Page 1

104-10063-10007

DISPATCH

MLASSIFICATICN

SECRET

RYBAT

PROCESSING ACTIN

2.

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Jef, WOMUSE

Chief, WH Division

Tь-2

SUBICT MACHAOS: (LI FEATO OI

of Station, Mexico Citylee.

Charles

(201 - 090648)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCE 2.05

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Attached you will find a transcript of several calls to

subject

These are being forwarded

in this manner to signal Head-

quarters special attention to several items.

tions between Foe some time thereihave been concerning somer sort -

of publication (possroty.mimeograph) which.they are.in process-of

turning out jointly. (See 126

b. "Thenconversation between

and his parents

indicates that

kind of mental provems. Finally,

is undergoïng some sort. of therapy: for some

is attempting to

go to "Berkeley" next year.

(209 IN of Att.)

06

The conversation

between Charles

and Qscar

201-227537

from Havana describing the latter's plans and

health. (438 IN of Att.)

2.. Headquarters should be aware that copies of the transcript

also have been given to the local LNERGO office.

alcolm

LAN

Attachment:

H/W, A/S

Transcript (Orig &

Distribution:

повід в 1cc:

C/WOMUSE, w/atts.

3Icc. C/WHD, w/o att.

h/w

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use. Gr

Do Not Reproduce

7084

CROSS REFERENCE

08

201-090648

de:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

22:204

HMMA: 39836

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETRYBAT

DATE

9 December 1970

NOS FILE NUMBER

200-6-387/3

15/g0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

іл:n

42-S #54

126

In

209

1t

MR. TO E (N1739836

26 November 1970 (Thursday) On at 15.03 hrs.

16.06 hrs.

BUSTY

played tollowing day and on Sunday

preference for Sunday as the day[SiaLis would go to

D

_residence and says he will pick up "those

06

sheets,

if you have them done, too."

OSCHARLES! appreciation of work done and quoted ANITAJOb

as saying,

'I enjoy doing it for two reasons, 1) because

K I agree with everything le has to say,

and the other is

because d sike him so much.

requested someone to pick up in U.S., their getting

together an sunday, etc.

17.04 hrs.

21.10 hrs.

22.12 hrs.

05

06

Collect ID call fron

to CHARLES &

He comments that he Is working for ELIZARDE

andE 06

asks if it is the same job.. He says it is--same

stuff--but that work would run out pretty soon, that

he would thereafter work a little while ''at a printer's..

15 CHARLESsays they got that info. by letter and asks

how about his coming here for Christmas.

He says he stili

does not know what is going to happen, adding that he is

"still hung up on CHLOE. 06that he is calling from the

(IEAN and children). He mentions having talked

WITh WANIS Several times recently. (CS)Says they just

heard from DENNISbEhat he had won'a second prize in

poetry. translation," for which he received twenty dollars.

o Clinquires with regard 'to the "guy you're consulating...

he any help?"

on" and (BS)"isks it he's sticking with it... "Your therapy."

He says he is.

She urges him to give therapy a chance.

He says it has helped some,

adding that he had cried

in two out of the four sessions; that he thinks the guy

Is great; that he was just sort

of lonesome for CHLOE; 06

that analyst feels that "I have kind of dammed up and

blocked up a lot of emotion which was giving me other

kinds of mental problems," that he has helped some; that

if he does not come for Christmas, he will probably come

down around New Year's or shortly thereafter.

say DENNI's expected to arrive here around 16th December

periods."

replies

"Off and on," that at times he feels frustrated

1

0 C

---

## Page 3

14-00000

42-S #54

209-Cont 'd.

321

438

In

-2-

26 November 1970 (Thursday) - Cont'd.

КЕКАХИАКК

BS alludes to his housing setup and he says

it is pretty good; that they are four angmay possibly

worked out

"rather nicely. Los asks 1I he

loes not see the

very frequently and, when he

advises

good. "ol

comments that that haven

P{ph.) has been very

good to emments that they are all e'eat loople."

He's a lovely, lovely

says he has been seeing a few women and has a

couple of men friends...

"I just don't feel that close

physical health. 05|

comments that ASHER

expects to remain in Los Angeles

until Sunday; that he drove down and will head back

(for San Francisco).

also comments that "I have

just written MAURICE

HALPIRIN a long letter" (apparently

dealing with possibility of work; that there is a "really

good place in Berkeley" next year. IB wishes him a happy

Thanksgiving, etc.

-27 November 1970 (Friday)

07.05 hrs.

08.12 hrs.

Il. 50 hrs.

15.30. hrs.

18.00 hrs.

OSCAR

tO CHARLES

& latter asks where-he is

calling

OSCAR) says he is in Havana and wants to

thank CS for

"those lovely books you

and one for us."

preciation and sisays it fight OsCAR mentions their

"nice way of saving hellc

0 OscaR says he is not too well health-wise; that he has a

lot of pain every day and "I"m pushing an awful lot of

nitro-glycerin and other very powerful heart dialators

every day," that he has very bad chest pains but that

there is nothing to do; that he was thinking of possibly

coming to Mexico during December but CSJadvises against

December (OSCAR says he has some rather exciting possi

bilities on his literary work, has a movie offer on

mere now who says he

reportedly is interested; that

etter to an

---

## Page 4

14-00000

42-S #54

438-Cont'd.

548

581

614

42-S #54

-3 -

27 November 1970 (Friday) - Cont'd.

.06

OSCAR to gonaway to Italy for six months, citing the

good that

derived from his recent trip to france.

with his

"new wife."

--28 November 1970 (Saturday)

07.47 hrs.

09.26 hrs.

11.21 hrs.

14.00 hrs.

IT. 12 hrs.

19.21 hrs.

20.51 hrs.

-29 November 1970 (Sunday) !

09.32 hrs.

11.29 hrs.

07.56 hrs.

-END OF REEL

Off at 16.00 hrs.

29 November 1970 (Sunday)

END

4g0

---

