# 104-10186-10196

## Page 1

104-10186-10196

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT TOMAN DOIRAC Ortiz

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

REPORI NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI-J16/00617-65

10 February 1965

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

D.

C.

DATE ACQ, January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includos supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of th

individuals mentioned in

the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

g of April 1964

LApTon 1960 as assigned see erecton Colan police who,

nteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligenco - DOI). I

1e eveninos and on his days off hu vorks as a bus inspector

as a fair complexion and cray hair.

for reading.1,2,3

Headquartors Comments

1. A saarly reliable source, in a document dated 5 August 1959,

stated that one Sergcant

Tomas TOIRAC Ortie was an agent in

the Gambling Bureau of the D'partamento Teenico d

Investigaciones de la Policia Nacional Revolucionaria (DTIPYR).

In a ceport dated 3 August 1962,

Tomas TOIRAC Ortis" brother

reported

the following information on TOIRAC:

"Tomas TOIRAC Ortiz is my brother.

He is a sergeant in

the DTI In the main office at Monserrate and Empedrado

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

-TARAT

I NAVY

TAIR

INSA

TAKX

TFBI 2

REP CINCIANT

CINCSO #

I&NS

¡Noto-Dialf detribution Indicated br "#"'3

JINFORMATION REPORI INFORMATIONAR-PORT

WELSIR

WE

IL CILIA.

2. 1

C1/H21

3

AZ1LSA/AL

Jdo, WAS!!

hIL/SAiCI

RIDLAN

WI/WAVE--

TOTALS MISS

(1),

WED (2), CIA, RID I

-II.X - 2185

NO PROJECT (AXMIGHT)

jESC1-316/00017-65

0149401N991

- 14B-0=

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SHORKT

NO FORCION DISSAN CSCI-316. 00617-65

Habana.

the 8a8de, he told me, 0d Jode del Guarnedon, but

I do not knos

he 1e the chief.

He lives on Avenida

13,

hot men Calle

And 122,

un the south side of the street,

exacely an the

He in living with. but not

married

They have two boys, names unknown.

was formerly

married

divorced from Lidya VILLORIO.

have three

carlos,

and a third whose nam l forkot.

They are all meabers. of

the Policia Nacional.

former wife

also had

two

girls.

My brother and his

He do now seeing his former wife

again and living

part of

the

time with her and part of the time

with luz Marin.

I do not know if he ly nctually

a member of any

political party,

but he

is an avid supporter of

the Castro govern

ment.

On my last visit to

sce him prior to leaving Cuba, he toid

me that I should not gu,

that living conditlong in Cuba are far

bettor than du the United States, and that the future of Cuba 1s

bright.

He was born in

1910,

civo feet lour inches fall, wilts

1a pounds, as dea

brown hair (naturally gray), brown cyes, and

• light comploxion."

reported in report on de see bee Deparan undot o dource

Publico (DOP). In this report he stated that one sergeant Touas

TOIRAC Ortie,

a self-declared Communist, was attached to the

Carpeta (Receiving Section).

SECRAT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

