# 104-10071-10192

## Page 1

104-10071-10192

NO PORTIGE DISSIL

AN INIONAI

A-BS-B-I-T

COUNTRY

Costa Rica

DOI

8 February - 4 March 1968

SUBJECT

C:

wattor

Indicating

That Negotiations

BEtween Ludwig Starke and Rolando.

Masterrer Were Not Progressing

Well r

The ry

Costa Rica,

San

Jose

(4 March 1968)

PAGE 1 OF

PAGES

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

7 March 1968

FIELD NO.

1108

ACO

SOURCE

Mis.

dinte

r.

(Pield Corsont:

The folloving, ruport ahould ba read

In conjunction with FpC8-314/01096-68

4065) and

1099), which reported that fernanoc

solo Fontanills, a Cuban oxile in Coate Bich, mo sarving &a

an intorodiary in negotiations botwoon ladula Stario Jiaonez,

a Costa Bican right-wing ostroniot, and Rolando Tanlorror, a

Cuban oxilo in the United States ho as involved In plotting

agalnat the govorment of Prodidont Bone Duvallor of Haiti.

The nogotiations dealt with a plan thoroby Storko would pro

vido a staging ores for an invocion. of Baitt by Haitian ood

Cuban ostloo undor Bastorrero loadorchip. In returo tao-

Perror, 1l succogaiul,

would abnaquently support a sove by

sgainat the Conta Bican Governant.

Bolo man roportod

to bo planning a trip to New York on 81 February 1988 to tall

with unforror and the lattor's ropresentative in the pogotia-

tions, Vathor Diogo Madrigal Alvarez. )

vialting Noy York City and lioal, Florida, bo van detainod

Holo a poosonaions the cocurity officials luand a lottor,

signed by liolo, addroonod to Pathor Diogo Badrigal, fow York.

Tha lotter was

222220

When Molo roturnod to Ban Joco on 2 Barch after

dated 9 February 1968.:. It ma typosrittoo on

lotterhead otationery of Rogello B. Pinto Inpresos.

Conneat:

Nelo

selle printing equipost and

thas nay have bainoss connection with the pinto fira;

Pinto has been reportod in

the past to bavo

baon involved in plotting against the Costa Bican Goverment.)

BE_C-B-B-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DISTRIBUTION

Lite

Lite protocol.

---

## Page 2

14.00000

Page 2 01 2 Pagos

8-I C-I-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEI.

3.

Molo's lottor ackno-ledged receipt of a cable from

and. now. "the Haitian can come thon he uimhes."

(Fiold Corent:

Rogolio may be Bogolio Pinto.

4099

moted Molo on mying that starke had obtained a visa for

Jacques Horingiane, a Inition who would bo the firet of

the Insterror (roup to arrivo in Costa Bica. Bolo thas vote

that bocouse nothing had boon heard fron Hodrigal since the

lattor'o vialt to Costa Bica "tho frienda hero"

bad boman to

- g2 1 t;

no nolthor are poles to do anything for have anytionned

complainod that hadrigal'a silonce appaarod to have

the onthuntom of this san of nction and of rapid resolutions,

who doos not like to bo nado to vanto hia ttna." Holo marnod

Mndrigal that if the linolerror group had not reached a doct-

nion to move ahend with the plan, it would to better for the

Esitian not to cono to Costa Bica. Folo also marned that 11

Chora tore no cubana partselgating la lastorare project to,

solo, sould not moport 1! since ho me intorested only

tho Cuban? problens and not those of the intrans.

Molo in-

formod Msdrigal that lo expoctod to arrive in let fort on 18

Fobrary; ho segosted that thay discuns the mubjoct in detail

at that t1a0.

On 4 March Bolo again left Ban Joss for 11051.

He

told the Conta Bican security officials that he would be amy

fron Coata Bios for & month.

5. 1i0ld Diasen: State Any CInCoo

i Good ties

circules

delande Mess

manelvid a plate rey

davideo in franti

ted tigerie tries

---

