# 104-10113-10273

## Page 1

104-0113-10273

D. STANDARD FORM NO. GA

Office Memorandum

TO

:

FIle

FROM

:

Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT:

LANZ, Pedro Diaz

STATET

• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

10 July 1959

03

1. On 9 July 1959, Mr. Herbert D. Nice of the Inmigration

and Naturalization Service telephonically advised that the sub-

ject was under a subpoena to appear before the Senate Internal

Security Committee and in the event it was desired by this

Agency to contact the subject, such contact should be made

This fact was relayed to Mr.

and he In turn received

telephonically.

2. On this date Mr. Joe langan of the SSD contacted the

writer and advised that he had been in turn contacted by Mr.

who raised the question as to the capability

of the Office of Security, by surveillance or other means, to

mecertain the are the see a tea litty, o

Mr. Langan had informed

view of the Congressional interest in this matter, no action

would be taken without an extremely strong justification.

3.

Subsequently, the writer was contacted by the Deputy

Chief, Support Branch, on this same point and Mr.

03

Twas telephonically contacted by the writer.

He stated

that, with regard to his conversation with Mr. Langen, he was

merely interested in ascertaining whether or not the Office

of Security had the capability to surveil the subject and he

did not intend that any further action would be taken in this

regard. He declared that Col. J. C. King, WH Division Chief,

with the way General Swing had diverted the subject to the Internal

Security Sub-Conmittee when, in fact, he was aware of the interest

of the CIA in him.

4. At approximately 10:45 a.m., Col. Edwards was briefed

generally with regard to the situation and mention was made to

him of the fact that he might be contacted by the Chief, WE *

Division.

OS/AAS/WJC:es 13 July 59

Aller

SENET

William J. Cotter

---

