# 104-10103-10336

## Page 1

104-10103-10336

..pages.

•.coplase SerieS.

REVURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Huber.

SECRET

ARA/CCA - Mr. Stevenson

July 9, 1065

ARA - George Lister

Visit of Cuban Exile Victor Espinosa.

In accordance with our conversation yesterday I have set

forth below a report on the visit of Victor Espinosa: aisle

?:.*

19:11.

A Venezuelan Christian Denocratic friend of mine, Valmore

Acevedo, called me from New York City yesterday worning,ito ask

as a personal: favor «that I receive a Cuban exile living there

who-bad something amazing! to tell me...When I expressed mild

skepticism, Acevedo urgently repeated bis request and I agreed.

Within a surprisingly-short time the Cuban, Victor Espinosa r

arrived. at my office (he said he had taken, the plane immedia:

ately):: Espinosa gave-his address: and telephone number as

follows: 415 East 52nd Street, HA 1-7875.. A summary of his

statements followeene ha

211A2:

Espinosa. bas -been involved in Cuban, liberation activities

for many years. He opposed Batista and opposes Castro, He 19

not a-nember of the March-13 Movement, but has long been very

close-to many of its leaders, Including Cubelas. Espinosa was

trained by CIA, In both Louisiana and Guatemala, and was one

of those who was sent into Cuba prior to the Bay of Pigs: He

plans.to

become an American citizen in August of this year.

He admires the United. States and American strength and compe

tence In many fields. He asked a New York acquaintenance of:

his for the name of someone in the Department involved in

Latin American affairs.:

He-was told Acevedo knew such an

official. Espinosa asked Acevedo (without, he claims, re

vealing his story), and the latter called me.

A little earlier this year Espinosa received a request

from one of his reliable Cuban contacts in Burope, asking that

he come there quickly...

Espinosa went to Miami, obtained, false

Cuban papers, and went to Paris.

There, apparently in the

presenca of the Cuban Ambassador to France, he met one of the

"top security" men of the Castro regime, who had come to.Paris

for that purpose.

buring various meetings, both in France and

SECRET

Railed Tren automatio

doragrading and

declassification

CondMATES WIN STATE

дрист 1948

---

## Page 2

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

L DO Not Reproduce

SECRET

• 2.0

in Spain (which Espinosa entered illegally), Espinosa was in-

formed that there is a plan to overthrow the Castro regime

and to kill Castro and some of his main leaders. The plot is

Led by Cubelaf and some öf the March 13 Movement, plus (I be-

lleve) some military officers.. They must move very quickly

because more and more people are learning of the plot and

there is growing risk of exposure. They are anxious to have

some coordination, or at least consultation, with responsible

Americans. They are not confident that they could win an all-

out fight against the Cestro forces, and are thinking more in

terms of taking control for a short time (perhaps only a few

hours), -killing Castro and his most effective men (thus

ruining the Castro novement forever), and then trying to hold

out for as long as feasible.. It is essentiel that they know

what, if anything, the Americans might do to help, now and/ox

later, when the coup is attempted. Also, they wished to alert

the alted States Goverment to what was being planned. si

The Cuhans: night have turned to

However, they belleye

s completely.

InTeLlEDie... A

Cuban oil-use sent tố

Isome time ago by

the Castro: people 3

as fooled by her and, being

very fond of women, set her up in an apartment in

He

also arranged for her to work with the International Rescue.

Committee. *When the proper moment came, four months

ago, she

flew back to Havana with some very useful files.

In these

circumstances. the: Cuban plotters have no confidence whatever

o They urgently asked Espinosa to be their go

Demen vaun coltable Aerian oked to e be her sty

man-returned to Havana, while one representative of the

plotters waited in Spain for an answer.

C:.00711

- Espinose hurriedly returned to New York City. He called

O'Brien of the New York FBI to ask that the latter arrange for

his to telk with some serious and reliable man from CIA.

O'Brien did so. Espinose then told the foregoing story, and

more, to & CIA man named "Hal"

• Hal impressed Espinosa as

being intelligent and relieble. Espinose understands that Hal

or someone else went to Spain to check on his story. At all

events, Espinosa was assured CIA understood the urgency of the

matter

and that he would be called within a few days. A week

has passed. However, no call has come and time

Is rapidly

SECRET

5/p)

---

## Page 3

SECRET

-3.=

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

@DO Not Reproduce

running out.

Espinosa's friends in Paris keep calling him,

ceutiously asking whether there has been some "response"

but Espinosa has hed to keep putting them off.

Meanwhile,

the Cuban who was waiting in Spain for the answer has had

return.

Espinosa keeps waiting to hear whether the Americans

will play ball with the Cubelas group. The plot has lasted

for over l8 months, and the plotters plan to go ahead very

soon no matter whether the Americans "play ball" or not.

One

reason is that they almost have to go shead now, for the plot

will soon be discovered and then it will be entirely hopeless.

Espinosa also referred to a jeweler by the name of

Teppellino (spelling?), loceted at 47th Street, In New York

City. Teppelino works for CIA and has frequent contact with

the Cuban Ambassados, in Paris:

The Ambassador regularly dis-

poses of jewelzy and other valuebles made available fron cuba.

He does this through Teppeltino. However, the latter fools

cha. ¿for exemple, the Ambassador agrees to sell for $80,000.

Teppeltino informs CIA the price 18 9110,000, and quietl

pockets the difference. On the other hand, Teppeltino anc

CIA think the Cuban Ambassador does not know he is working for

CIA, but the Ambassador does know.

Espinosa is determined to bring the very dangerous

situation of the Cuban plot to the attention of some top level

official in the United States Government unless he receives

at least some reply from CIA.

Conment:

Espinosa was not overly tense and did not indulge in his

trionics, but I felt he was quite determined to push this

matter further if he did not get some response within the very

18 he de not

near future. I cannot, and do not have to, judge his rell-

ability on the basis of this one conversation. However, if I.

had to guess at this point I would be inclined to accept most

of what he said about actual events. 'But of course there are

all sorts of obvious possibilities, including provocation.

In accordance with what we agreed on, while Espinosa was

SECRET

---

## Page 4

¿ RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

1 Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

waiting, I returned and told him at some length that of course

this was not the sort of thing we got into. However, I added

that I would see to it that someone called him.

I further

said that, unofficially, I had enjoyed talking with him.

Espinosa seemed somewhat mollified and tamporarily reassured

by this. However, I doubt very much that he will wait longer

than two or three days more before making another attempt to

bring this situation to a head."….

•'::

Clap that tel

...

SECRET

---

