# 104-10009-10128

## Page 1

104-10009-10128

.201h6sS2.Gx

saacs

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Review Date September 1970

Document No. 971

XAAZ-17367

22 May 1964

Yes

Mr. Dooley

Fren

RELEASE TO PUBLIC?

No

Commenta

Wo WANT

Date

OUT. AUSTRIANS

LETTER GENEV

THIS COLONIA) AGREES

ABIDE BYTHEIR

MOS MET, SHOULOBE

1055070

IN 1995

Mi. Rocca

-

Mr. Karamessines

Mr. Helms

-.-

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Document No.

971

XAAZ-17367

22 May 1964

Yes

No

RELEASE TO PUBLIC?

Insufficient

Knowledge

Commente

Mi • Dooley

Date

1AU65

3AgE

Mr. Hall

Ms. Haufman

Malterphy

Mr. Rocca

Mr Spera

Me Whitten

Mi . Karamessines

Mr. Helms

П..EN.E....-

la come?"?

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

WARMING NOTICE

SENSIT.

'SOURCES A

METHODS INVOLVED

DD/P. 4:2624.

f: MMX 134

DURICATE - 07:

XAAZ-1367

MEMORANDUM FOR: MI. J. Lee Rania

yents Telep.

by da Gen

one Calls to Unlted States

asket ERa

Io & saler aginto par

dated la Pebury 1964, pilative to des

serves inade by ClA.

8a. On 16

Amme a 73,

reporting a

chostenr for the Sovlet 5

on the pose but et the Sovlet &

15 October 1967.

in thie

previounty known of the 196z dele

SECRET

G8OUP 1

Excluded trom automatie

daungrading and

declassification

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 5

13-00000

WARNI

NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

D. Tha CIA Stallen la Condorra, on 39 Moramber, farniahod

• artleble Information on the 1902 talephone calli. lt eppesro

that vonres on thit occasion stated that "Tren Curtain Com ries"

planned to pay a handrod thousand dallars for the sasesatnation

of President Kennedy.

0. On 2V November, the CA Canberre Station alre forulotied

completo detail en the anonymons Colophons endl of 29 Muverbor 1961.

emplied by is Ganborre Salien, to the Waite Home, Depen

of state, end Foderl Burns a techgalien, with a copy to tie

Seeral Servico, A copy ol this discertain in ite exact teal

de attached to the semoradam.

do The ClA Stalton 1 Canterso aspened fos Alecusaton of the

cale with th

In the opia die

Antrolin entortion, tas caller uno s crantio la auy evento thay

were not able to blonsy any Follah employee of the Sovlet Smtanay.

¡te amuebtle descuibed by tho coltos so lte me to drovo, ou i

licenes plate amber given by hin. No further Informstion on tila

call Ano boon rosalved. Avallable ovidens mona tend to don Cit

the callo mo sono type of erent. This cretelen, toever. an

De centensa.

$. Please noto that the mature of the information In thre

memorandon and ts atisehment rogures the see of & donoilivity

Incenter.

Richard Helen

Dopaly Directer for Plane

Attachmons

SECRET

Excluded from astomatic

dawnerating am

Dention: inin

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

WARD 'G NOTICE*.

SENSITIVE SOURCES AN

METHODS INVOLVED

OVT Teletypo No. 85691, datod 29 November 1967, Illed as IllY hoars,

to tho White House, Dopestment ol Sinte and Federal Barons of

Ivergetion, wilh a copy to the Secrel Serviee

1o Tons attentien lo called to a series of anonymous telephone

collo mado to tho ortice of the U.S. Naval stuche la Carbone.

snotralla. Dy a man ciniustag to have had knowdedge absut a footal

plot to secacainte to late Prondon Bernody. Cur fires record

ot tilo mitor lo o Moval Altacho cole from Gunters cout on

24 Nevember 1068.

2o I appears that the callor, who professes to ba the Foliah

ensufens of e Sortet Embarry car in Canborn, firel phoned la

over o you o1t, on 15 Onloher 1962 repnat 106t. At that Chao lis

onla a story about tire Sortet subrarinee corning 400 to 500 corlet

soldiers en thotr vay to Cuba, One parpose of this treep movemen.

ho sald, sun do cupport to Governor of Miestarepl Fa cated that

Shers vo a pis to pay one baniaoe Consant dollars to Lil Prostat

Hennady. Behind tho plot, he said, vero the "Irn Curtale Comerles,"

on omnis man brand. My for at probly some cher

eemntedoe."

3, On 29 November 196) repant 1963, the day after the

comestmation of E rostet Kenedy and over a year sier the fret

selophone call, & man boliavod to bo the same persos phoned the

Embassy agnin und spoto do the nanstant Naval Attacho, The calter

refamedto his call s year boch abd stated he had sald that the 0568

hai pus op 100, 000 dollars fu, the assasslestos of Praldont Kendy.

A. Olving what la claimes mers further detallo sbou the

nonsolnetich, the caller sold that abert two veste before (which

would have been in early Morember 1963) ho was present shen a

Astralas mas, 13 to 10 jeare Old, and tall, was diepatshed 0y

tho Doviote to tre Untted States carrying a case abomi 15 to 10

centimeters long, 50 centimetere deh, nod B.5 coutlertoro side.

The name Vosyl Two was used in some connetion with tile man.

Elo was put on e plane in Spinay and walle the emiler drove the tea

Soviot escenta back to Canberra, thole shortwave radlo ln the ear

was going courtantly. A chorave rodie wao seing in the Eastsesy

GROUP 1

Excluded from actematio

dowagrading and

declassificalled

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 7

13-00000

W' 'NING NOTHE

SENSIVE SOURCES!

METHODS INVOLVED

a wann they arrived there. Over taroe sates, ene of tiere Sovlet

transmitted mambers and "polats." They ramaluad ta the Enhaney, and

that merelay (apparently 21 Hoverber 1963), e massage earne through

m lonels pore dranh In Ranalen Vodka and the Rasclane present sold.

« have anhloved what no wams."

5. The enlter thes guve "Informatiou" about the feviet rule

in ething s Ul.&. Novy unctear submarine and on sovtel sabreraten lis

Indonna. He verte sel lemliy Maneli, and shen ho dosesthed the

enr he entren fao a mavy blas 1952 Batels, lestte piate Naw Doth Fates

CGO (12z) Do added they olton ebungo plates, here illy onto is reservo.

and oen elange them in five seconde.

di. The caller addad some vagne information abore a vermon

employce ol the Americ Antacu ho tinto verto for the Series.

The converslion consluded eith the calter promining to write a letter

to to Naval Attacho al the Amorters Enhassy.

7.. The calter spote good auglish sns ble acoars and volce eld

not chango thraghost the coverstion, on it win serumed tat he

mo nut elagaleing blo voter.

129-223

B. Anstralisa nstortilos vertiza on tile cass considar tha

endlor to bo a cunt, Thay stato that Sovlet offless in scotle

thots urug a Pollah chaufour. They are constantry their tvestigation.

• L6N21

GROUP T

Excluded trem antomatic

downarading and

deciassilcation

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

W "NING NOTE

SENS.. IVE SOURCES ND

METHODS INVOLVED

origin 1 - Addresse

3 * DDP

1• CURRATRI

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

dewagrading and

declassificatios

---

