# 104-10177-10031

## Page 1

104-10177-10031

CLASSSIO MESSAGE

SECRET

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE •

• AU: 59

DIRECTOR

•HOM I HAVANA

ACTIONI

DOl,

Pa/FRO, PO/PR03,

on las 12.

Date leing in 748 dete

straits gragi do i too lol o

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

Migrature. com

21-18

0P IM

DIR

WHO OPIM

PRITY

REF: DIR 39653 (OUT 85227)

IN 12915

rohangest to ninthly m

CITE HAVA 2536

EMBASSY SOURCE BELIEVED RELIGELE REPORTED STORY TOLD

MIM BY ARMY CONTACTS THAT URIAN WAS CALLING PEORAZA ON RADIO

FROM:LAS VILLAS PROVINCE 'LIKE MAD" BEGGING FOR MILITARY ASSISTANCE.

THE ARVY CONTACTS IMPLIEO MORGAN WAS TRYING LAY TRAP FOR PLORAZA.

2. SAME SOURCE TOLO EME THAT HE ADVISEO BY MIAMI CONTACT

¡NAT CAPTAIN OF YACHT WHICH CARRIED MADLAN AND LOAD OF ARMS TO

PORT OF CASILDA NEAD. TRINIDAD, LAS: VILLAS PROVINCE, STATEO ON RETURN

TO MIAMI THAT MORGAN WAS NET BY 258 MEN VIIO HELPED UNLOAD ARMS.

3. SIVE SOURCE ALSO PERSOVALLY CONVINCED THAT DOMINICAN

• CONSUL GENERAL MIAMI COULD BE EXPECTIO TO STICK TO STORY THAT

MITCAN DID NOT DOUBLE CROSS HIM IN VIEW FACT HIS OWN POSITION

EXTREMELY SHAKY FOR HAVING VOUCHED FOR MORGANS BONA FIDES AS

ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTER. SAID DOMINIC BARTONE, MORGAN ASSOCIATE,

ANO MAN WITH ITALIAN NAVE WHO CONNECTEO WITH MOUL IN ROUGE, MIAMI,

ARE IN SAME POSITION.

H. STATION HAS VERIFICO TELEPHONE CO-MUNICATION WITH :

•CIENFUEGOS CUT OFF BY COVT. DIARIO DE LA MARINA 'OF

12 AUGUST

PUBLISHEO REPORT FROM CORRESPONDENT IN CIENFUEGOS THAT CAMPESINOS

_SECRET

'tripy No

251145

: 541-766957

---

## Page 2

1d-0n0d

DATE

12 AUG 59

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

SECRET

180м .

ACTION

INFO

• 68 Manal date Papapa

Sed so else peng de lad instant

He are roger bat as hole send

Sand 0)

sirene pretend

PAGE -20 "

IN 129'5

HAVA 2535.

INFO

Care

FROM VICINITY OF TRINIDÃD REPORT ARMY HAS SURROUNDED GROUP OF

REVOLUTIONARIES IN NEARBY HILLS. ALSO THAT VEHICULAR TRAFFIC

BARRED FROM STRETCH OF HIGHWAY BETWEEN CIENFUEGOS AND. TRINIDAO

AND BETWEEN CIENFUEGOS AND CUMANAYAGUA. REPORTED THAT CONMANDANTES

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO ANO VICTOR BORDON MACHADO, ARE IN CHARGE OF

CUBAN ARMY ACTIVITIES IN THE AREA AND THAT IT RUMORED RAUL CASTRO

HAD VISITED LAS VILLAS AND INSPECTED ZONE BETWIEN CUMANAYAGUA AND

E SCAMBRAY.

5. NO INFO AVAILADLE TO STATION OF OPEN CONFLICT IN SANTA

CLARA AND CIENFUEGOS. PRESENT WIEREABOUTS MORGAN NOT KNOWN. HE

COULD LE IN HILLS FIGHTING CASTIÚ BUT STATION HAS NO FIRM INFO TO

THAT EFFECT NOR CAN IT SUBSTANTIATE WIDESPREAD BELIEF THAT HE

HAS BEEN CASTRO AGENT FROM THE BEGINNING.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * Headquartors requested any information available regarding

a report that Major Morgan and Eloy Gutierre% Mencyo's troops wero in open

conflict with Castro's forces in Santa Clara and Cienfuejos.

SECRET

125Y 8358 "' REPRODUCTION BY OTHEX TIR TETENNE OFPICE IS MOMMITED.

nath

Irapy Stick.

.153

---

