# 104-10161-10438

## Page 1

104-10161-10438

SP-1693

Mr. Raymond F. Farrell

Commissioner of Immigration

and Naturalization

Department of Justice

Washington 25, D. C.

Attention: Mr. James F. Sheridan

Dear Sir:

SUBJECT:. Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lahera

Reference is made to previous correspondence and

discussions in this case.

This will confirm oral request made to Mr. Sheridan of

your Service by Mr. Knott of this Agency to permit your Miami

Office to maintain direct liaison with the Agency covert office

in the Miami area concerning subject's travels outside the United

States and his return under the Special Procedures Agreement.

This request should not be considered as setting a precedent in

this type of case, but is only for the temporary convenience of all

concerned in the operational use of subject.

As you arg aware subject has travel documents which are

made outll

and he will use these documents in his travels

from and to Miami.!

31.07

Our Miami Office has an(

in the name Ernesto Jesus GARCIA Guzmanji or subject' & use.

This Passport will contain a multiple entry United States visa,

type B-2 and a Form I -94, Arrival and Departure Record in the

same name.

These will be known as documentation Number One.

The Miami Office also has a

Jin the name

Hector Raul ANDRADE Oliveres for subject showing his date of

SECRET

GROUP 1 :

Excluded from autcmati.

downgrading and

declassification

?.. ut

1177:T.

641778

---

## Page 2

SECRET

09,10

birth as(6 February 1937 in Santurce, Puerto Rico.J These will

be known as documentation Number Two.

Subject will use one or the other of these travel documents

in his travels and your District Director in Miami will be advised

which one is being used prior to each trip, in order that subject

may depart and reenter under the Special Procedures Agreement.

This Office will also be advised on a timely basis by cable

from our Miami Office of subject's travels and which document

he is using, and this information will be immediately transmit-

tod to your Office.

Your cooperation in this matter is deeply appreciated.

Sincerely,

(5)

Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

NOT TO BE DISSEMNATED FURTHER OR EXHIBITED

TO ANYONE WITHOUT PEOR CESSION OF THE

CLARAL INTERCHAS APA

SEGRET

CHON

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ie a

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTICE TO RECIPIENT

DOCUMENT RECEIPT

Sign and Retum as Shown on Reverse Side

SEIADER OF DOCUMENTIST

ROOM

BLDG.

M. Knott, Chief,

Alien Affairs Staff

4 E 32

Hdg -

DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT (S) SENT

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT TITLE

COURIER REC. NO

DATE SENT

DATE DOCUMENT(S) SENT

CIA NO.

SP-1693

COPIES

1

ATTACHMENTS

4 DEC 195€

VED

1004

1c3)

RECIPIENT

ADORISS OF RECIPIENT

SIONATURE (ACKNOWLEDGING RÉCHIRY OF ABOVE DOCUMENT(S))

R. Nyard

OFFICE

PATE OF RECER

CLASS

SECTET

12-61 615

119 D St., N.E.

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

I &NS

(33)

matesca

inai nordic:

CHETO: 41507TH HARLIGHT 1501E

aOri CHS:115500

..:...

romaires

riDiscotis

DETI ZI=:

•?...

."т.;

....

Melis

---

