# 104-10100-10310

## Page 1

104-10100-10310

WA/3/MEXICO

50:0

2% 0CT. 1963

ERXICO CITY

SECBET

201-355939

JUWAVE

R

1!11A, I1S J, 50

ARXI

ILY FIXE COZO (IN 45573)"

FEZUMEN

JuWAVE

79070

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. SUBJ REE WAS GRANTED POA 7 MAY 1963, 201-356559. REQUESTIN:

€ FONTES EXTENSION OF FOA.

POL HAS SEQUSSTER FEEM EOS ATTENPIRO RECRUSTUENT OF

SUB THOUGH

FUBARS ASSET AND CLOSE FRIEND OF

SUBJ WHO NO? TESTING IN FOFILE.

RECRUITERNT PITCH WAS MADE IN

ITTLE SITIES TO SUBT BY

AT 9QS DIRECTION.

BATE LETTER TO DIS FIND/QUANTUA 55 iN FEB iDES FOR ULTIMATE

SUMITR, DELIVITY TO SODI IN FIRTEEN. WE DO FOT KNOW AT THIS TIME

FOSTEGA QUANTUR S9 EVER DELUVED THE LETTER TO SUBJ. IN ANY EVENT

DO FIELY FARI SILY LAS LIEN RECEIVED BYL

TO DATE.

HAS ASSHORED SUBS AS FEDLABLY SSING IN OPPOSISION TU THE

SILE IN FORET, AND AS FROGGLY GILLING TO COOPERATE IN A

3. IN VISE FACT MAXI LAS CUCCESSFULLY ESTABLISHRD CORTACT WITH

TORS SONIAN PEE-T MES DEAR TO SENIOR CITY STATION FOR

CAN GERTICAL DSVULONENT dE BUSS.

COOGSIMATINO OFFICERT

Pintes

Lactased licon ariomala

AILEAG

AETMEMTCATING

GREASE

01839591990

REPRODUCTION DY OIHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Capy No.

---

## Page 2

SECA

T

PACK 2

INru

POCTO

S. LOS THACTS OST BURS INDICATE POGE HAVANA, [24 ALE 1929:]

THAT ID ATTERED (EN RANARD) COLASOR, ET ASKARI, ALABARA, 1006;

THAT 53 ATTEND CEOCLA TECH IN 1648; AND THAT ON/2 JAN 1948) WE

DAS ERCLUDED PUDI ALMISSION TO USA AT MIAMI INSCAUSE HS DID NOT

HAVE A VALID VIBA.

3. SINCE GUSY EAS ACCESS HIGH LSVEL PERULEN OFFICIALS AB

WEIR AS SOVB AND MR AFFARENTLY HAS AGREED FURNISH INFO, REQUEST

REXI FANCIED TO DEVLOP THIS OP OH FRIORITY BASIS. PLS CAME

AND OF LISSSAGE

aRecreated ereces sod sea go=/

Cutes,

CIPIEN

8A3/S03 Er. Trestin (1a draft)

8.

Go Tuxu

", GEFRODUCTICN EY OTKER THAN DRE GSUING OFFICE IS FROMISITED.

Bui tard?

BASKARD

B. ESICHHAKDT

C3/12/3

ENTERTINE

OFF

CED

Cres Pla

IMIT

---

