# 104-10331-10237

## Page 1

104-10331-10237

72.

December 3, 1993

Memorandum for the Director,

Center for Studies in Intelligencc,

Central Intelligence Agency

Attn: Mr. John Pereira

FAX: 703-243-8343

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

> DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Subject: CIA Files on Lee Harvey Oswald

This is to acknowledge my telecon yesterday with Dave Gries and with John

Pereira re issue of whether Oswald was ever debriefed by the Agency, and to

respond to John's request for documents which may having bearing on this

issue.

First, a point of order. It is my belief and the belief of the Agency personnel

with whom I have discussed this matter, that your files should not contain the

infamous "debrief.". It strains credibility that the Agency would purposely

persist in saying there was no debrief when in fact it had a copy of it

somewhere in its extensive - if sometimes sloppy - records system. It

would have been found by 1993. The issue is not whether you have it now;

rather it is whether it occurred in the past and was destroyed.

We can all talk, theorize and argue over what it might mean later. For now

the task at hand is simply to take all necessary steps to find out. I urge

extreme caution in stating flatly that there was no debrief until such steps

have been thoroughly exhausted. I was surprised to find out after the

FRONTLINE documentary aired, for example, that there will be some new

pieces on this subject in the not too distant future.

I attach a copy of CIA document number 435-173A, attachment, memo

dated 25 November 1963, by a "T.B.C.", whom I believe might be one Mr.

Tom Comier, possibly a former head of SR6 Branch, Soviet Russia Division,

at the time Lee Harvey Oswald returned to the US in the Summer of 1962.

T.B.C. stated he discussed the laying on of interviews with Oswald, either.

while he was en route or after his arrival. Because T.B.C. made a

typographical error when he typed " 1960" instead of "1962", the IISCA

foolishly dismissed the veracity of this entire document.

TR,

WHET FEET -9.320

---

## Page 2

13-00000

I attach a copy of CIA document number 287-690, memo for record, dated

3 December 1963, by Mr. Birch D. O'Neal, Chief, CI/SIG, Subject: Lee

Harvey Oswald. O'Neal's memo is about polygraphing Alvarado, but it is the

reverse handwriting in the upper right hand corner that is pertinent to the

issue at hand. That handwriting appears to be: "Andy Anderson 00 on

Oswald."

I refer you to Mr.

a CLA employee in the Contacts

Division in 1962, who told the HSCA in 1978 that he read Anderson's debriof

and described its contents to his HSCA interlocutors. He will tell you today

what he has been saying for 30 years.

does not have a book

and shuns any publicity - it took FRONTLINE almost a year to get him to

agree to an interview on the record. He says what he says not for any

personal gain because there is none, there is only disrepute. He says it

because he remembers reading the debrief.

If I were you, I would first have a long talk with Don. Then I would find all

surviving members of CD/00/Support Branch. It did not take us long to

figure out that this branch interfaced with the field offices of the Contacts

Division. While this will not turn up a piece of paper, I think you will find

some ariswers there.

As an aside: a Mr. Roe F. Anderson was listed in the CIRA obit this summer,

and his son Richard called me after the FRONTLINE documentary aired, and

confirmed his father, a Navy officer, had worked for the CIA. I doubt if this

is our Anderson, but you might check all the same. I would appreciate a note

stating what you find out.

Sincerely,

Dr. John M. Newman

1019 Summer Hill Drive, Odenton MD, 21113

FAX (home): 410-672-7251; (H) 301-621-0576; (W) 410-859-6131

---

## Page 3

13-00000

REPRODUCED AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES

25 November 1963

SUBJECT: Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

1o It makos little difference row, but

had at one time an

Of Interost In Oswald.

7

As soon as I had heard Oswall's nane, I recalled

that as Chief of the & Branch I had aiscussed - sometime in Summer. 1960 -- 62?

with che thon Chief and Doputy Chief of the 6 Research Section the laying

on of interview(s) through

or other suitable channels.

moment I don'e recall if this was discussed while Oswald and his family

nore on routo to our country of lf le Mas after their arrival.

7o I remembor that Orrald's unusul behavior In the USSR had struck

me from the moment I had read the first State disperch on Him, and I

told my subordinatos something amounting to "Don"e push too hard to get

the information we need, because this individual looks odd " We were

particularly interested

in the Of Ostale might provide on the Minsl

factory in which ho had boen employed, on certain suctions of the city

isolf, and of cource we sought the usual BI that might help develop

target personality dossiers.

I was phasing into my

assignment,

at

tho timo,. Thus, I would have loft our country shortly after Oswald's

arrival.

I do not know what action developed theraftor.

T°

Addendum

4, As an afterthought, I recall also that at the timo i was becoming

Incroasingly Intorosted in watching develop a pattom that we hide scovered

In the course of our blo and rosearch work In 6. che number of Sovlet

womon marrying foreignere, being penaleced to leave the USSR, then eventually

divorcing their spousos and settling down abroad without returning "home".

case was anong the first of these, and we oventually curned

up somoching like cho dozen similar cases.

No established links between

some of these women and the KGB,

hecame Interosted in the developing

trond to hud come across.

It was partly out of curlosity to leam if

Oswald's wife rould actually accompany him to our country, partly out of

intore in male in elain to the us, that, we showed operat songs,

"T. B.C.

Sad HU90:0T 5661 50•320

STEPTELIDE : ON 3NOHd

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Cathe. 044 10 4

Get 486

1880 689890881

3 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR TEE RECORD

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD

"FRiT Requests polygaaph of ALVARADO

At 1010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the PAI advised that the

Bureau had received a cable last night Iron the Logal Attache In

Mendiço City who 1a In touen with our representative there. le stated

that our representative had bean infarned by!

Nicaraguan Intelligence service that iLVARADO told him,

of tabat

he recanted his originel story because of fear of physical harm; that

Alvarado was being deported from Medico to Mcarague On 1 December 1963)

and would be accompanied by.

I that

assured our repre-

sentative that Alvarado vould be available for further interview in

Micaragun It the United stator denired.

Mr. Papich stated that the bureau sould like to have him subjected

to a polygraph examination by this Agency and rould apprectate receiving

word as soon se poosible as to whother ve will handlo the matter lace

If we w1ll not handle it the FBI Mil have to determine what other stepa

might be taken to men that this to done.

I advised Hrs Fuyich that I

would check Into the matter, that I did not know nother we bad vallativ

at this time a polygraph operator who could proporly handle this matter

but In any vent I vould let him now wether this can be done.

Zerman blanke

287-690

MEATE FINAN

ther 7996

SAY 1976

MaN 124 7

SEX:M

/cos

-5..

Blrch D. O'Heal

Ch10S, CI/9I0

CLASSIFIÇATION REVIEW:

24 HAY 1976)

CONDUCTIVO ON 2

• IMPDET OL BY 0/2208

RECORD COPY

WIly

Let that :"

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTCRICAL REVIEW PROGRA

3: DEC63

201-289248

Mad W2E:01 2661 50-320

---

## Page 5

13-00000

December 3, 1993

Memorandum for the Director.

Center for Studies in Intelligence,

Central Intelligence Agency

Attn: Mr. John Pereira

FAX: 703-243-8343

Subject: CIA Files on Lee Harvey Oswald

This is to acknowledge my telecon yesterday with Dave Gries and with John

Pereira re issue of whether Oswald was ever debriefed by the Agency, and to

respond to John's request for documents which may having bearing on this

issue.

First, a point of order. It is my belief and the belief of the Agency personnel

with whom I have discussed this matter, that your files should not contain the

infamous "debrief," It strains credibility that the Agency would purposely

persist in saying there was no debrief when in fact it had a copy of it

somewhere in its extensive - if sometimes sloppy -- records system. It

would have been found by 1993. The issue is not whether you have it now;

rather it is whether it occurred in the past and was destroyed.

We can all talk, theorize and argue over what it might mean later. For now

the task at hard is simply to take all necessary steps to find out. I urge

extreme caution in stating flatly that there was no debrief until such steps

have been thoroughly exhausted. I was surprised to find out after the

FRONTLINE documentary aired, for example, that thore will be some new

pieces on this subject in the not too distant future.

I attach a copy of CIA document number 435-173A, attachment, memo

dated 25 November 1963, by a "T.B.C.", whom I believe might be one Mr.

Tom Comier, possibly a former head of SR6 Branch, Soviet Russia Division,

at the time lee Harvey Oswald returned to the US in the Summer of 1962.

T.B.C. stated he discussed the laying on of interviews with Oswald, either

while he was en route or after his arrival. Because T.B.C. made a

typographical error when he typed "1960" instead of "1962", the IISCA

foolishly dismissed the veracity of this entire document.

TAN

HST: AT 5661 00.327

STERIZITRE: "ON ENOHA

11,1MOT NHMEN : 10NS

---

## Page 6

13-00000

T attach a copy of CIA document number 287-690, memo for record, dated

3 December 1963, by Mr. Birch D. O'Neal, Chief, CI/SIG, Subject: Lee

Harvey Oswald. O'Neal's memo is about polygraphing Alvarado, but it is the

reverse handwriting in the upper right hand corner that is pertinent to the

issue at hand. That handwriting appears to be: "Andy Anderson 0O on

Oswald."

I refer you to Mr

Ra CIA employee in the Contacts

Division in 1962, who told the HSCA in 1978 that he read Anderson's debriof

and described its contents to his HSCA interlocutors. He will tell you today

what he has been saying for 30 years.

does not have a book

and shuns any publicity - it took FRONTLINE almost a year to get him to

agree to an interview on the record. He says what he says not for any

personal gain because there is none, there is only disrepute. He says it

because he remembers reading the debrief.

If I were you, I would first have a long talk with Dong Then I would find all

surviving members of CD/00/Support Branch. It did not take us long to

figure out that this branch interfaced with the field offices of the Contacts

Division. While this will not turn up a piece of paper, I think you will find

some answers there.

As an aside: a Mr. Roe F. Anderson was listed in the CIRA obit this summer,

and his son Richard called me after the FRONTLINE documentary aircd, arid

confirmed his father, a Navy officer, had worked for the CIA. I doubt if this

is our Anderson, but you might check all the same. I would appreciate a note

stating what you find out.

Sincerely,

Dr. John M. Newinan

1019 Summer Hill Drive, Odenton MD, 21113

FAX (home): 410-672-7251; (H) 301-621-0576; (W) 410-859-6131

WHAT

GEFOTEITRE :

"ON ANOHA

a. a e de a yas pa

---

## Page 7

13-00000

REPRODUCED AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES

25 November 1963

SUBJECT: Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

TO

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

It makes little difference now, but

Fad at one time an

Of interost in Oswald®

As soon as I had heard Oswald"s nano, I recalled

7

that is Chlaf of the 6 Branch I had eliscussed = sonotine In Surmer 1960 = (27

with the then Chiof and Deputy Chlof of the & Research Section the laying

on of interview(s) through

or other suitable channels.

At the

nomont I don'e rocall if this was discussed while Oswald and his family

wore on routo to our country of lf le was after their arrival.

I remember that Oswald's unusual bohavlor in the USSR had struck

me fron the moment I had read the first State aisparch on him, and I

sold my subordinatos something amounting to "Don't push too hard to get

the information we need, because this individual looks odd'"

parelculerly Interested in the Ol Usuald nighe provide on the Minare

factory in which ho had boon employed, on certaln sections of the city

Isolf, and of course we sought the usual Bl that might help develop

rarget personality dossiers.

3. I was phasing Into my l

assignment,

cho timo.

I would have loft our country shortly after Oswald's

I do not know what action developed thereafter.

at

arrival.

T°

Adelendun

As un afterthought, I rocail also chae at the time I was becoming

Increasingly Intorested in watching develop a pattern that we hadidiscovered

In tho course of our blo and roseärch work in 6: che number of Sovlet

womon marrying foreigners, being permitted to leave the USSR, then eventually

to ang her so was one reing do are i thou venturing

"home".

and we oventually turned

up sonothing ilke two dezen sialter cases. lastabliahed links between

somo of these women and the KGB.

became interosted in the developing

trond -wo hud cone across.

It was partly out of curlosity to learn if

Oswald's wife rould actually accompany him to our country, partly out of

Interest in Oswald's own exportanced in the U SSR, that ve showed operations;

Incolligence interest in the larvey story.

T.B.C.

COd 149E:0T S66T S0.S20

STEPIZLIRE : ON SNOHS

1. 449S NEWMON

: 0041

---

## Page 8

13-00000

MENKUWUSCUL 48668860008686

3 Decembur 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR TIE RECORD

SUBJECT: Lee Farvey OSWALD

At 1010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FBI adullied that the

Bureau had received a cable last night Iron the Legal Attache 1n

Mexico City who 1s In touch with our representative there.

ils stated

that our representative had been Informed by

of the

Nicaraguan Intelligence Service that ALVARADO told him,

that

he recanted his origlnal atory because of fear of physieal harm; that

Ivarado maa being deported from Mexoo to Mcurazua on 4 Ducember 1903

nd would be accompanied by

3 that r

annured our repre-

sentative that Alvarado vould be availnble for further Interview in

Nicaragua It the United Btaton dentid

Mr. Papich stated that the bureau would 11be to have him subjected

to a polygraph examination by this Agency and would appreciate recelving

word as soon as possible as to whother ve will handlo the matter since

1I ve will not handle 1t the fEl till have to determine what other stepa

migirt be taken to sen that this 1a done. I advised Mr. Fugic that I

would check Into the mitter, that I did not lou wothor ta bad avallablu

at this time a polygraph operator who could proporir handle this mattor

but 1s ans ivent I would lot him low varther this can do done.

dement Chartier

287-690

TRATE ESSA

5X15aE8

maal

for FOLL Hunter on

P9r 750%6

MAN 1976

"5-

0.99

Blrch D. O'leal

Chief, CI/SIO

safer!

K0512. 1324 57

ARA FEE E

CRAT EAR CIT

set okas

SEX:M

CLAPSIFICATION FEMIEW

CONDUCTIO ON

24 HAY 1976

EL IMPDET OL STO /2203

RECORD COPY

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTCRICAL REVIES PROGRA

3. DEC63

201-289248

A HH2E:01 0660 20-390

STROTELIRE : ON SNOHd

---

