# 104-10171-10003

## Page 1

104-10171-10003

DISPATCH

1109:14. 2: 208

SECRET

Chief, Task foren

FH:685,5,1900

0.0. 0g

8US me: 00010%

+168-8- 893-093

caler of Stardon,

WE CHISE DESTRO, ALANS POETR

6=2 Penetration Accon Asalose AUSPELL Orkantzalton and "Other Groups"

ACTOR REGALO PURRENTS:

Actlon Required: FYI

References:

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

NAVE-3286,

VFGA-7027

INCA-7038,

818A -7217

UFGA -7322,

F.

14 January 1963

28 December 1962 (RYBAT)

20

Decembor 1962

12

January 1963 (HYBAT)

17

January 1963

13 December 1962

MICROFILMIO

FEB 4 1963

DOC. MICRO. OrN.

interbasi

January. 1963 AMIINT-27 net wIth QUASTUN-T In New D.^

YOrK CItY, ANd QUANTUS-SPadvised Him that Jorge

•JEDIN BrInguier,

the Secrotary Comral of AUSPELL In PBRUSIEN,

MEDINA and DO (Ing)

who was sald by QUANTUN-sQlo bion the

AUSPILL NatIonal Executiya,

were actually G-2.ponotrallous.

up" the cotiro AsSPElL ordentzation and "other"

Kroups" in on stue and then escape by boat and contact Agur5g

In the JuVAVE area.

MEDINA WaS 11 COnLaCE SICh ANINT-53 shile in

PBRUNE! and planned to Use ANHINT-53 to establish his bond fides

wIth KUBARK.

DENIL Tie

as ransi

was to make contact with loon A

lu dotermine

-3Dhad boon a very close, porsonal frlend of

AEDO'sasinco childhood

and AEDO Scared

he would camelicated

AND ALDO. -ALLO told

on and hr

rangements were

Chenimado lo got alt:

the AYSPELl leaders

Uruguayan Embassy. On

about 10 December 1962 about 25 persons, ineluctus Ablo, went into

QUANTUM-Si rurther snid that AEDO reportedly

arrested

by.6-2 a long tine ago and then recruited to work for the PBRUNEN

Government.

continucd,:

- 20

Distribution:

22: Jan 1963

Attachnents:

A."

B.

IDES stic

ICES RISIMINCE TO

UFG1-7383

S

ECRET

19: 5m1-8:&

89201-301693

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

POb$$:81:46. 304

SECRET

eits a sonal at 014990e

I:FGA -7383

'Reference Cla a chronological summary of AMHIST-33'5

actleltlos subsequent to his infileration in PERiMEN, and his

contacts with Cholin,

the brother of AWKETY. AMFRET-'s arrest

was reported in Reference B.

The AVFRET-7 Caro Officer states

that buch AUFRET? and his brother sere arronted, after shooting 64-f

It out with Go? and being wounded. Olas noted In Reference D,

AN RET-Y's priest was mdo after [OLANTEN-55 ond Blanca FeMARTINEZE

de Hoys,

akd "Cucn," aka. "Cucht,

brought VEDINA, ANSPELL'S National

Military Coordinator for Reception and Supply,

MEDINA reCognized AXHINT-33.

AMHIST-33 Said MEDINA was an old

friend of bis and had livod near him.

MIISPEELENNC

ANIINT-33 said further that his brother knows MEDINA,

that 6s

NEDINA is the man whom AMHINT-33 used in 1961 to check up on *REBELLO.**

(Inu), tho FEU Sccretary General in PBRUMEN.

AMHINT-33 added in

his S/# Messago 11 of 10 Docember 1962 that "hle friends" aro still

Roference E transmitted a letter written by AMHINT-33

on 29 Docember 1962 in which he states that G-2 Infiltration 1s so

great that he considers it impossible to orkanize anything, and he

indicatos that some of the agents, as in this case, have been infil

tinted for more than

He presumably means infiltrated

Into anti-CASTRO organizations and/or activities.

Relative to the "other groups" mentioned in para. I

ANHINT 33's

Caso Officer belteves that AKHINT-33 is probably

referring to the MRA,

have worked for ANHINT-33.

pulsesse

offor isttle concrete informatiou.

JAWAVE traces on the individuals Involved in this plot --

It is notod that Jorge NEDINA Bringuler is listed

on Page 13

of Attachment C to UFGA-1977 as an ARR

member,

listed aka of Carlos PRADO.

JMNAVE trocing identifies

one Carlos

as reported in HAVA-6437,

ted brother-632, doctober do; there lan lar per incor

further ipforma

on this Carlos PRADO.

original source of the infore

atlon given in Attachment C of UFGA-1977 was a letter brought out

of PBRUMEN by AMSTRUT-1

nbout carly July 1962.

Said letter contained

• $25 money order,

Issued at Station No. 9, New Orleans, on

16 March 1962, for Jorge MEDINA. Bringuler and purchased by Maria

The envelope, addressed to Sra, Consuelo. C. de

RIVAS In Mexico City,

bore the notation,

"For Carlos PRADO," and

from his mother," in addition to the money order.

"This money order for $25 is for Carlos PRADO

Hes studing engineering and is. the

* 530

is married to Clara ARTINE,

sister ofijosefira

a close friend of ANGLEN-9,/ and she is also

of current; KUTUBE interest

When AUSTRUT-2, who could have given this letter to AUSTRUT-1 to

take out of PBRUMEN, was In Mexico City she called Carlos PRADO by

telephone at 249769

and told him that she was a friend of his notber.

This PRADO family is a large one, and includes another brother,

Angel, who is in Spain;

a sister who is a nun in Italy, and anotherl

brother who is a doctor in New York City.

Additional data could

be secured on this family fron AUSTRUT-? if desired. However, it

seems probable that this money order may have been sold in Cube

by Jorge MEDINA and purchased, sooner or later,

by the nother of the

Carlos PRADO sho is currently a student in lexico.

material carried out by AuSTRUT-i is belng forwarded heret the

sill be noted thas a part of the attachment was disseminated

Urt 1239, 13 July

That tog

201 - 35cj6

ASSTART

SECRET

251-337655

PASTRO

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GLASSTICATION

SECRET

OSATCH SIMMA NO MUSICAN

UFGA-7383

It is further noted

that JAwAlE files show one

"Mongo" listed on Page 14 of Attachment C. to UZGA-4977 as capturod

and sentenced to 30 genis in prison.

This infcrmation. canc.from

UFG-779, 12 January

1962, which was based on &n ANCUTLER-1 intercent

of a report from the MRR Acting Internal Coordinator In PBRUMEN

to lipolito LAZARO, the MRR. Internal Coordinator temporarily 1o

sent via the

Thoro was no

furthor Identification or this "nongo." . 24

it is noted that Reference F identifies Jorge

HAEDO aB #

former anti-Castrista who was tortured and doubled by

tho PBRUMEN Government; HAEDO appears to be the correct spolling.

"Cuca" or "Cucht' MARTINEZ, who has held the pouition

of AMSPELL National Coordinator for Civil Resistanco, la a personal

friond of ANCOG-3 and family.

She is belleved to have taken asylum

in the Moxican Embassy.

8 Docember 1962 and roceived 12

to bo a G-2 member.

The messago

said that this was learned from

AMSPELL prisoners and

many questione about "Cuca" and AJCOG-2.

during interrogation, they wore asked

When the AMHINT-53 security review mentioned in Reference A

is received, additional investigation as necessary will be made at

JAWAVE.

END OF DISPATCH

$3g

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

QLASSANICATION

SECRET

I cos-auro

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MICROFILMEO

FE8 4 1963

DOC. MICHO. LEA

Codor Sepnente Covor Attachment to UFGA-7383, 22 January 1963

11D

IDEN A

In PBRUNET.

216937

9999-881

Toel Me: 4156717383

IS JANES

19-124-26/3

---

## Page 5

ИДЕЛ-3303"

Fils

Escotencalt 18h

80:000. D.1

(sor Cartad PAriDO)

1%

11,1354

Pria Monsy order for $25.00 16 for CASTOs PRADO ton hia natior.

Livo 0028 08 sonor erdor ser $85.00 tor Jorgo NIDIlA mingulor fron Marta Trusa

NOT SUITADLE FOR LONUM

Entidas Mas

@00Fp.

ti

MRI

19-124-7613

---

## Page 6

272008

SECRET

a varia baconso Lope

03) SU 1183 A900

M61, 11.

5 es going to place tha comundantion abroad in 50s1°s lianda, no ona buttoro

¿Pot I robe lo that you explala to la botter hor to sale the contaot trou soro over

E5="=, 8has too dor and vRaro lo sca SArUnIA, she contees under jou Bald sou bad vita

11-o S0!1 Inois Sla but dooan'& lusov haro she em 8oe hiss Mencabor Caat 3088 1a

clisig buing chueted bocause Intoben's vise inom hor and askud about hit. i as coing

•to s5y to sara Blo BroaDuror Do a irlond of soll'a vo kois uhora cho sonoy 1ao to 1a.:

a silly patrorthy boy callod Alejandro.

?:11 DE. LITiGA that I don't vrito to hin about the altals badause 1t l0 caslor

So. = 8o salto to Jou, due that he ans thio boy sould ravo solations, and I slea

Eiler aal tits. you.

L-70s1slo to only one poreos, and for the case d8 uns loft in our hands. You soo that

tha aricutivo evor there la fully ansverable to ua and that voy thuso u1ll ba no

problems

Na jon't know anything about my negoonko. So far all tho contaota havo fallod..

Lot"a suo that. ve can olarlige

Toll Joans Chal the naba I nost his about dos dos vas througs a costcos sales

cal clio la the consto I bollovo that a lot can be done up thoro Dostess, duto

1:16 no a furtillo contact aleo at that condt, uhan to bayo to put la contact unes Del

roll Jas to let so sori also in that aros, Miles de mino and 01 4y 8.02100.= 8533

16 to cirus autiortatios test vo can sund a cuortilla bard to vori unca tis

cala.

Ca courad, this quor alla chosen by us to avold (bals sending poople of thul. 16.

cad hav: ties tale camand ovay fras up. You know bow that 18.

l:1is to our othis brother in-law in tho onbrasy and find out then 1a Jus-a

B-sou=a I 19s0r 63at ho do alrcady lonving but to case daot to no loodiatoly, lat'a

3:" 12 ho loards, takos a fast Ernining, and conos back. tavo thos got cuch raa

ricing end ne to nas cosbat ulth bayonuts which da vory good at sight and no oss tara

inste aparag about thate

Jos sit usplala tho thing a bit to Duto so that he will gain onthusiasa. 1r so

nico 8:a* the (Sing la s0s101e and has roal support he vill 00s0, Tao orly tsara sha%

Jii ino, ho soods oupport 10s bla foallya, Eplala ovorything to llo and I tila: 13

vill ea.jo d0 scaves tonorrow and I gavo hin your phono. I1 ba noods noray for 11s

---

## Page 7

vito end for haselt ora 1t to hin fron nino. I authorleod bla to ask you for 1t

Esa contacta undoù I had Doforo and havo non, dad no vould 1181 that ua for tause

goals, that do, no would start a mur la all the provinod, plots and ovarythica.

V.28, Enla lottor so polna vill solo handa do li1ead shore de 1181 do maliçe.

so tho Sole vlah I sont vill arivo lator di I conc pot st tason vita

t:1a Ona sucauso I alroady dav 1t lo havo 1t mallodi Lot"s doe 18 Me can gut 1e soes

I 1118 15180 to Dobe end Martha ilona enothor day vlta calo, and I don't savo

thu dotasis of your dottors on hande

regarda so els end you risagra lovo sroa youse brothoro

• Kaolos

---

## Page 8

SECRET

1IчпTRя

I ESO CLEY OL REVERDO DE SO JUNO 1962, BAU BORDURA OS CRO SATICAL EXCUTTIE

OÉ ES- MOTI:O DE SCUMCLACIOS I'VOLICIONARIAO C'ORARA), RIGODUTtO CARiS, CAULISON

saçlose Crordinatas, and J0B0 Antonto MUSiAS, Mistary tetlesal Oporalnator, said.

a sostlag end adopted eso follonng agromontes

I*I. That 1a vior of the prosent situatlon of our novunont andeso coneral

•BIticios of the county, ve havo doctiod to ehange to organization ol tso 20p-a-at,

lila: 1118 con be couposod an sollous (A) Cao Civllion Mational Coordinator, end

(0) Cou :1l1Tary jatloaal Coordinator. All previona socrutartars mnd doncalrations

ore creledo

C7J1 To fire full entonony. sen sogard to sunetionino, to tho clulion and

silitay cordiantion. Tus, each will sunotion operatoly.

VI INPUTINÃA tO:DIA JOJO IgNOGÃO LAZIDA ANd tO the erDOUtITo aspointod by ble ME

tha cuess-intion of the provioua N'ational Coordination.

F: I dO JOSULE OR BHO SDORND apTOURE regardinO autonay in the funationino

0s t1u "a91onal Coordlastiona, no egoa to 1ado»s to llosareho in tha pociend os tão

Fill SacusITo al out formont ln oillo, v1ta the protiaton that the ordera orlolnating

5509 1:1a Esocutiva Mill Do Oopliod M1ta 1a Booordando MiEs our capabilitios and

t=:15e Jaio conodoratios that de lo 250 1n tha siatlonal torTItory No havo battor

oNlidys of tia soal situation vales vo aro undorgoing.

MERA SY APOSUrSO CASAS ANd JONO ASTORLO AQUEASTE OXOlUiSTOlY, dE EDO rOUt

0L ES: I-DITS 0I ENO DOTIOUS NATIONAL COONDINATION ATO IN PrISON VItA the OrCOatIOn

OS: ' 2-120, 0I COONIRATOS O8 CIVIO ROSLAEENCO VLO LO SA DAYlIE.

al Caserto CASA

CHILLY NATIOYAL COORDILATO:

NILITARY NATIONAL. OOO20IRATO.1

SECRET

---

## Page 9

AD0D0000DD

Xicsteract # 8d

CORESO SEO VIA NRAA

000 m.

Sate seray order for

82500 clo dio prosa

Critin Prosts de fiante

United Status Postal Blonsy Order

лЕ ДАв МИЛІ

DRED DOLLARS

PAY.

SERSOOLARS

VAL:D:

PAt

DOLLNES

11-47,272,045

PANG

B:EASE 0-SA PEONARY MIS NOIS If ALTERED

→ 1G: 8010, SIRE SETIA OR MUTILATE

---

## Page 10

кОЛОДАд

228 5.00.

1l Th Cire.

Кіст , В

CONCO AFRICO • VIA AIR NEAT

ПОРОСЛОВОВ

---

## Page 11

i ne sono lucero de equí fara all

regile-

indimorti a 2l. Fofi do courco, fiero no debe conde dirts

El apogo si lo damos a bajaga fiuto con el Episo

tus proqui a una sola fesona sera imposible a pave

el caso e difaba eu sisestras manos. Elli preven fas

el agecutivo en esa reiforida polcramente a cosato y

si no habrá problemad.

si hu patr

Cri que pre allá arriba

---

## Page 12

ai priete

ne tie ague lea a

se si el dá

autores

te acde luega era querela ente de le muer

o y no quita la fefatura, tu sabes con es 24

tie fus att et una esta buena de noche y aguí nadie es

56 ма de 2215

a Beto le tienes que explicar la cosa un poco par

seño a y para el, dices

ti del mís, yo lô cutorige a pedístelo.

---

## Page 13

1d-0d0d

=: =- ciatea do 3a Bshanag = sca jù dias del sca do surro do 8962,

-LOS 205 LICCESUNICO dOI DOCUOTO MICHE COL 20:7.20N30 d

SEriO ESCiOSEL CLEIl j JOSE ANGUIO AGRiCHIE, Coccadendos dasia

mani tio dabido a la sitasida setral pos la que aesaraces a

02085940B 0000344 602 2549

2206925 18 cõ Ereton col casso, cascanda comonos-

10 65 16 229372

0*22

A) EI Ccondinacc ricicani

Caso a cita en in 2

=s110 banco cads wea poe separedo.

Cial baale nono choro y secentea lento cono bacecae cana 29

22606

a:ilio do

al ricoutiro poi oi noabrado, cas la ducaticasien

la entorica Coordinecis

Xasicoal

neutro doz acuando SUatD2, da Cuarto 2 1a auscacie 55

ciclamiento ag

Cco-dinacionos Bacionales

5091a

42096469 5002623

unnico ca constinacdon qua. por cstas nosoteca su

visio

¡acicaal conscocos cojor la reaildad do la citracces

105 0:3 091210262030

È aio distangla so filma la presento por l03 soñorsa rIconcaro Ci ",

a E Jose coTo AbRaiire aiclisivencato, debido a enesctarico si

Fricig

:252

•LCIONAL CIVIL

Dosé A Azremonte

57/6

• ANCORO

COORDE ADOR MICIO & 1223212

---

