# 104-10192-10133

## Page 1

104-10192-10133

•RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

ROUTING

Pue 890

0880. J

in ans er parin the

$R00M

ACTION . IW

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

GECRET

INFO

DDP, ADLIP, SOD 4, DO 4, DO/H 3, CA?, CA/PEG, CA/PHUP, CAVO L, CI/OPS, CI/IC?,

CI/PS, FI, FI/D,

FI/INT 6, RI/Aid, WH/SA 12, WM 8, VR, FILE

P

Y

R

S

312217

JAN 1 2483Z ES IN 52286

P

Y

Рік.

188U L INT

BARR CITE WAVE 6657

INTEL TIPIC

SUPCATAS PARAZS AUDALM-4. PARAS 4-58 AMSWIRL-I IN UFKA-159.

FACHE MEILA.

AUXILA ALSO SAID ZARRAGA IN TOUCH G. HARVEY SLP1

SINGE OCTOCER AUGUT IN-ILTRATION, ZARRAGA ASHED SIARI PROVIDE CRYSTALS

FOR RADIOS ME PLAIS TANE INSIDE SO THAT STATE CAN ALSO RECEIVE

TAND:ISSIONS FROM CUA, AS OF LATE NOV SUNI CLAIMED HE STILL CHECKUNG I

PF. RADIOS AND POINTED OUT FCC INVOLVEMENT, ERPERUSAL INTEREST. RID:

Aonoved from Prajo08. Wei lige: 6=

FILSO 3109177.

CS Classlilcatlon:135a-v

108 / 68-9:1/35°

ВОя: 9

Pold: y

PEDORT CLASS CONTISENTIAL CONTROLLED D'ISSEM

CILMITRY: CIRA

C! : 1" UNEMT INFILTRATION ATTEMPT ÜY CARLOS ZAFRALA •ARTIN: MITO

iW COMMENT

R

PS

ABSTRACE

19-300-14

INDZX

11!5.à

12!

..8i

T0CS 08-315/00004-65

ROUTiNE

RASED ON

RELEASING I WO

1, JAN 1965

•PRIORITY

UFG 6443

NP/ AMPALM-4,

AMSWIRL1

LIAISON :

788 / 389

RI COPY

NODUCTION DI

i39;

PROHIS

C

---

## Page 2

14-00000

8-46 124-3 Use Prerias iditions

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

- SEGRE!

200..

ROUlING

FROM.

ACTION

INFO

PAGE 2 IN 52206

LAS VILLAS PROVINCE

DOr: 7-29 DECEMBER: 1964

PADA:

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (30 DECEMBER 1964)

UFG 6443

SOURCE: SEE PARAS 1 AND 3:

100%

Mob#:+4 88460 8606868

iW COMMENT,

TDCS

I TROUTINE

LASED ON.

I PRIORITY -

RELEASING I WO

DATE. DISTRIBUTED.

AUTOMATIC

SECRET

---

## Page 3

Cla: 85e 10 Dirt Poo

84 348 +43

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTRELLO DISSO.

ROUTINE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

CUBA

TDCSO8-515/00004-65

DATE OF

7-29 DECEMBER 1964

INFO.

DISTR 1 JA'NARY 1965

SUBJECT

R

VPIEIT INFILIRATION ATTEMPT INTO LAS VILLAS

PRUVINCE BY CARLOS ZARNIGA MARTINEZ

PPLACE &

•YDATE ACQ. VITED STATES, MINSI (3U DECEMBER 8964).

SOURCE

AND

FIELD REPORT NO

IN 52206

UFG 6443

APPRAISALI SEE PARAS 1 APID 3.

R

p

R

p

Y

1. SOURCE FOR PARAT: A PRODUCER OF A RIDIO PROGRAM WID HAS

SEEN INVOLVED IN ANTI-CASTRO ACITIVITIOS SIRE 1555. SOURCE NAS

SEEM A SPORADIC GUT RELIMELE REPORTER.

2. EN 29 DECENGER DURA CARLOS FARRACA MARTINEZ, FORVER MENSER

OF THE SPITA REVOLUCIONAFIA CUBANA ¡JURE, CURAN REVULLTIENITE SINTA),

SADO THAT HE AND FIVE STILÉE CURAN EXILES LATEND TO INFILTERTE ENTO

CURA REFORE 3 JANUARY INADO TI: DATE MAO SELECTED TO GGANCIDE •

WITH FAVSRADLE MOON PHASES.

FARENZA SAID HE HAS NO GOATS,

ECTH OF VANCH ARE IN A FREECH. DP.. ANGEL AIXALA PENTISARA WAS

MENTICHED I CONNECTICH WITH THE GOATS: 11F IS. EITHER PART OUNER

ThiA

malenal contains informainn alectine the rauoon Dolens of to Vassrs Sinles vililo soo srastas el the Erplongo Laws, 79710

18. UBC. Biora, 19) and 194, the tranamianion or porelatica

of when in any manner to an unaichorsed portre i prohibited by law

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLRO BESSE

STATE/IN*

DIA ARMY/ACSI

NAVY

AIS

AD/CI.?

CIA/NACE

FBI

JC$

SECDER

NSA

MIC

ISNS

TREASURY

USIA OCI ONE

USCG

A PAT. A

OuR 00:

CUSTOMS

P08A / 389

RI COPY LE

RI COPY

y

R

P

1391

---

## Page 4

14-00000

PLACB UTINUES ABUSE

e01-80864019800-

•BFU 1 44 (20)

IN 52286

DUCET HEr

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS0B-315/00004-6BAGE 2

OF THE GOATS OR UF THE DRY DOCK: (FIFLO COMENT: THE SAME SOURCE

REPORTED IN TDCSD5-315/81732, DATED 19 DECEMLER 1964,. THAT ZARRAGA

WAS PLANNINE AN INFILTRATION OPERATION INTO CURA. ANCTHER SOURCE,

HOWEVER, REPORTED THAT AIXALA AND ZARRAGA WERE PLANNING A RAID AGAINST

CUBA SOMETIME LETVEEN ZE DECEMBER 1964 AND IS JANUARY 1965. AIXALA

HAD THE ARMS, ALA'UNITION, AND THE CREW LINED UP; HIS BOAT WAS TO BE

USED IN THE OPERATION.)

3. SOURCE FOR PARAS 4-5: A LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER

WHO IS WELL ACQLAINTED WITH MARITIME MATTERS IN FLORIDA: SOURCE

HAS SUBMITTED A LARGE NUMBER OF REPORTS BASED ON THE DEBRIEFING OF

CUBAN REFUGEES AND HAS BEEN A CONSISTENTLY RELIABLE REFORTER CN THE

PLANS AND ACTIVITIES OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS ENGAGING IN BOAT OPERATIONS.

4. AIXALA SAID THAT AS OF 7 DECEMBER ZAPPAGA WAS PLANNING

TO INFILTRATE INTO CUBA THROUGH REMÉDIOS, LAS VILLAS PROVINCE.

HE PLANNED TO TAKE WITH HIM VICENTE MENDEZ, PFDRO GAPCIA, HIAZERTO

• SOLIS JURADO, JESUS HERNANDEZ, JUAN RUDRIGUEZ AND JORZE RIOPEDPE

NUNEZ. THE PURPOSE OF THE INFILTRATION WOULD BE TO START GREGNIZING

SOME OF THE CUERRILLAS IN LAS VILLAS AND ORIENTE PROVINCES. THE ONLY

WEAPONS THEY WERE GOING TO TAKE ALONG WERE THEIR PERSONAL WEAPONS,

A RIFLE AND PISTOL EACH AND THE AMUNITION FOR THESE AÑIG. THEY

PLANNED TO USE MIXALA'S CATAPARAN WHICH WAS AT THE INTELINATIONAL

MARINA, 285 SH NORTH RIVER DRIVE, MIAMI.

5. ACCORDING TO AIXALA, SINCE MOST OF THE CUSAN EXILES IRE

VERY ANXICLIS TO LIBERATE THEIR COUNTRY, THEY HAVE DECIDED THAT THE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 5

MPO 1-66 17

IN 52255

R

Y

8,.d 8.5

"CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLIED DISSEN

DEST THINE FOR. THEM TO DU IS TO RETURN TO CUEA AND START ORMVIZING

THE GUERRILLAS BECAUSE NOTHING IS EXPECTED TO ES DONE. BY THE UNITED

STATES. THE MEN WHO FOUGHT AS GUERRILLAS INSIDE CUSA HAVE RESIGNED

THENSELVES TO THE FACT THAT THE LEAST THEY CAN DO NOW IS TO RETURN

TO CURA AND DIE IN THE ATTEMPT. TO LIBERATE THEIR COUNTRY.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINGSO, CONNWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI; CUSTOMS, ISNS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG.

00AS

0e =

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTACLED DISSEN END DE MESSAGE

RORY 1 389

DORIATE

RI COPY

RI COPY

1351

---

