# 104-10173-10070

## Page 1

104-10173-10070

. UNCLASSIFIED

SÚBJECT, lOprigal

FROM:

RID/CE

(US).

2, rofna derignaion room aumber, and

New York

DATE

RECD

FWDD

1.

CI STAFF 20 35

18 AAR 1953

z.

RID/CE

Attn:

G-A-10

23 ah su

RID/AN GA 50

INTERNAL

T - INLY

CONFIDE IAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

LI SECRET

OFFICRR'S

INITIALS

NO

CSCI-3/ 775,757

DATE

17 April 1963

COMMRN'S au o fer a oct o cetana di a oo oon mha

Please sand, to me

attn of mes

07

03

5.

7.

9.

10.

11.

12.

,13.

14.

13.

RID/FI LB 4003

FORM

NODEC 3S 610 USE REVNOUS

EDITIONS

0D -38

$- $8

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TO:

STATE

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER

201-

279710

ENCLOSURE

DOCUAMEAT DATE

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE OMLY

JARSTRACT X

IBDER

UNCLASSIFIED

2/pl

---

## Page 2

SECRET

6si=3/775,757

19 APR 1953

10g

Deputy Asslotant Secretary for Becurity.

Department of state

FROM!

Deputy Director, Plana

BUBJETS KANOR, Mart

Reference 1s made to the nano check request, dated 11

February 1963, subject as above, whose name you desired choaked

agaloat the files of this office.

The files contain tho fallo

ing information. concuning Subject.

2..

According to a report datol 21, April 1961 tron a unally

rollable source, reflecting subject'e om statements, Marin

KAITOR, born 9 May 1934: In Bur York City, vis a student of

Russian and funtan literature at the University of Copenhagen

fron 1957 to 1961. During this puriod, subject traveled on

Dormark to the USER tilco on a visitor a vima daried. te hia to

valt his uncle in Minsk.

The firat tip covered the period

31 May -9 July 19583

the second, 2 Juna • 8 September 1959.

As a regula ol the procaining of subjost's application for a

van to the USSR In 1958, he became friendly with one Borla

Fodorovich KIACHWY, in official at the soyet ambassy in

Copenhagen and a KG officer. Dotensibly in connection with

Subject's vina application, be gave KHRYACHKOV. a atatement

concerning his background and relatives in the USA and user.

During Subject's stay In Minas In 1958, he was viaited approxi-

mitaly fou times by one Viktor Ivanovich BAZONOV who ststed

that ho was from a "niniatry." BAZONY sever attempted to recrust

subJect; however, he dis susgest tant subject coperate in an

native struegle for peace.

Although subjoct preferred not to

see BAZONOV, be felt that a refusal might lend to trouble for his

rélatives in the usan; conequantiy, he passively agrond to

wait a general ideas.

Upon his return to Copenhagen, bovever,

ubject remmed his association with KHRIACON; and in Februer

1959 began a chandontine nonting systen vith him: At the time

Subject won agats requested to mbnit vritten statemente con-

cerning bia friends and student acquatitances all under the

pertange of enining another vina to the USSR. In June 1959

subfect win traveled to lines, and, aring the registration process

at the OVIR (Office of Visa and Registration), he not one Fergenty

10i-274

ES COPY

SECRET ILE IN 201-279710%

Me. Me A5A

+56 739% 08399

---

## Page 3

o-n"

SECRET

at groato lensth about poace, and offered him noboy on the

grounde that "ho knew it was rouch for a student". Subject

reportedly ratised te affer, sad, tollostas this encounter,

was vialtod regulmrly sy Victor SAZONON (ues above), sio,

coverd tie eat of July, invited him to a botal here he sid

SAZONOV vere wet by KARA.

During thie meting, KAIN Identified

binoelf In 313010V°s presanco as a representative of an Intelli

sence service, and made an obvious attempt to recruit subjoct.

The latter vas requested to eign a loyalty pledge to the street

that he was to collaborate willingly with Soviet Intelligence.

He retusca, axl, although an argant eood, no physical prosture

or threats vere applied. Subject did not soa KAHN again. at the

International Club, upon Subjeot's return to Copenhagen, he enocurtered

one Vladlalav Mikhallovich ARARCAALIN, an employee of the forlet

Eubaosy and a In officer with whos he comersed, usually to the

presence: of other students. Towaria the end of Hovamber, ABARCHALIN

effected a ruunion between Subject and Boris KINYACKKOV.

The latter

attempted to dimiss the previously mantioned sborted recruitnent

In Minok as a mauderstanding. Between Hovender 1959 and April

1960, Subject held a low street corner meetings irth KIRYACHKOV.

On differet occastons the latter riquested his to : a rid hielf

of his passport because of the many Soviat bloc vius which 1t

contained,

Do accept delivery of lettera from MIRXACHKOY 1n

Engelani to be turned over unopened to someone else; and e. rent an

apartment where subject voula imito his Merican friends to meet

Soviets, Subject reportedly refused these requeate. In April 1960

subject was Introduced by KHRYACINOV to another Soviet called

"Grigorly," The latter vui to be Subject'e new contact, Jubject

mt. (rIsori approatoly four ndiitional times, but refused

Origorty's requests for mitten statementa about his student friends.

3. According to a report dated 8 Mey 1961 iron the some

unally reliable surce, and, again retlecting Subject's statement,

BorIs KaRACHKOY save subject a bottle of vllukay and tho inglih

language booka to be delivered to uno SHARIFP In Noscow during the

courae of Subject's trip to the USaR In 1958. Subjeat delivered

the gifte a atrected and was anted by SHARIFY, s menber of the

staff of the Moscow Nevs, If De vas'loterestod to writing a sbort

article for that publication concerning his impreastons of Minsk.

subfect agreed and wroto tho handwritten pages stating that be had

been favorably impressed by hat appeared to be kinsk°s rapid

couth ani reconstruction.

He received 500 rubles for his efforte

for which be aignod a receipt. (It la not nom vhether the article

vas evor publtahed.)

6B 34

Entite: 0779 23997697

Yes to

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

1d-0d0d

f.y

3/000

SECRET

4.

A report dated 1 Beptember 1901 fron & usunlly rollable

source indianted that Subjuct had been friendly with one Willin

JArST, an American citigen born about 1933, Living Ia Dermeri

ithout a reaidepee perait, sTrIkry bad sold pro-CASTRO and

ants West artioles. to the local Danish press and had been in coti-

5.

Tor further Information sonerning Subjeet, you are ra-

ferred to tho Fedaral Aurenu of Investiestion and to the Department

of Stta, Passport OffIce, Anertcan Sebally, Copenhngan, Darinario

CSC1-3/773,758 r

Knals 1 name check

Based on fOss-20341,

COESA J10382, ODCA633 (202-279720)

22

22

22

SECRET

Lants Pea

6300:90288

---

