# 104-10431-10091

## Page 1

104-10431-10091

SECRET

21 1082

US/82/71

Regarding your letter

andia your Levelery vladimi wach 1803 our

traveled to Mexico.

Spain, the U.S. and Cuba

during the period 1959-61.

In 1961, he was assigned

permanently to Mexico City as a consular officer and

served there until August 1965:

He was variously

described as a translator, vice-consul, and attache.

During this tour he attempted to cultivate a U.S.

Government employee assigned to our embassy in Mexico

In September/October 1963, Lee Harvey Oswald

approached

the Soviet Embassy

in Mexico City in an attempt

to get a visa allowing him to return to the USSR.

Kostikov, as a consular officer, handled this visa

We have no information

which indicates

relationship between these individuals other than for the

purpose of Oswald's making his visa request.

Kostikov returned to Mexico City for a second tour of

duty in July 1968.

During this tour he was again assigned

to the consular section and was a second secretary.

appeared that

he was tasked with following

the activities

of the Central American communist parties and left-wing

groups, and he met often with members of

these groups,

reportedly providing them with funds and technical

guidance.

In July/August 1969, Kostikov made an unusual

TDY trip to Moscow lasting three weeks.

(His family

remained in Mexico.) In July 1970 he made a four-day trip

to Havana.

Kostikov's tour in Mexico ended unexpectedly in

September

Our information indicated that he was

not due to leave for another three to four months, and at

the time of his departure, there was some speculation that

the suddenness of his departure was due to the fact. that

he was known to

1üü-2-45

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

201-289248

DO NOT DESTROY

Form 540 Pasterd

RECORD COPY

1 050-005-003

0201-289248

nanaras?

SECRET

+4F-09222

Z1MAY82

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEUNLI

While in Mexico he was considered by some to be the

mont effective and dangerous of intelligence officers in

He has been described as being without morals,

education 1968,

and manners.

Shortly after his arrival in

arrested in front of a house of

prostitution after becoming

involved in a fist fight with

It appears this incident did not

affect his

City, despite the

fact that it

a good deal of

press coverage.

We are aware only that Kostikov arrived in Beirut in

June 1978.

We are unable to confirm his presence there

Although our file indicates that Kostikov may have

been a member

of Department 13 (Executive Action)

(Department V's predecessor), we have been unable to

Also, to

best of our knowledge the KGB

has not engaged in such

executive action since 1959.

Sincerely,

/s/ David

Dayid H. Blee

Mr.

PHOTO ATTACHED

DDO/CI/RA,

(21 May 1982)

DISTRIBUTION:

Orig & 1

- Adse

1

1

_ CI/RA Chrone

- 100-2-95

Reading Board

1

SECRET

100-2-95

---

