# 104-10181-10116

## Page 1

104-10181-10116|

SEGLET

Dacid -and Use Onigg

Do Not Flaproduce

8 March 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A

SUBJECT

:

Itaiian Aspects of the Clay Shaw Affair

REFERENCES

and the involvement therein of Clay Shaw.

as having been connected with the Centro Mondiale Commerciale

Other persons listed as involved with CHC are:

D'Amelio, Henrich Mandel-Mantello, George Mandel, and Ferenc

No E/I traces were found on any of the above.

Hungarian desk traces were found on Nagy. RID traces on all

four persons are in process.

• In regard to the information in FBIS-37, a check of

E/l desk files disclosed no traces on the World

Center, Clay Shaw, Major Blumenfeld,

or PERMIDEX.

were found (Attachment C) in the Annuario Parlamentare, 1963-

64 edition, on the CMC, which is noted as connected with

PERMINDEX.

We believe

that the CMC and PERKINDEX are identical,

respectively, with the World Trading Center and PERMIDEX

mentioned in

NÖ RID traces were found on CMC.

1963-64 Annuario Parlamentare listed Nikolaus Fischer as managing

director of Cc.

No E/I traces were found on Fischer. RID

traces on him are still in process.

3. A check of the 1963 and 1964 editions of the Annual

SwISS Business Registry,

held by tbe Swiss desk, disclosed

further information on PERMINDEX (Attachment D), a commercial

firm with a wide range of activity located in Basel, Switzerland.

• OCR/FID file information lists PERMINDEX as a Swiss

real estate and'property management firm and lists its management

as follows:

Other

President - Dr. Werner von Arx

Officials - Timotby Fales, Dr. Otto Wiesser

r. Nikolaus Fischer, Randolp

Vetter.

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHET

•2-

(Note: All of the above except Vetter are listed as PERMINDE

officials in the Swiss Business Registry listings.

c/E/I

Attachments

SECRET

---

