# 104-10336-10002

## Page 1

104-10336-10002

10л

work.copy

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530...

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

VIEN

BOARD

October 27, 1996

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Mr. Barry Harrelson

' Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re:

Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for

Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of

Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the

CIA.

Formal Requests:

CIA-1

Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by

November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board

staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CLA's compilation of the portion

of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim. Chair • Henry F. Grall • KermiL. Hall • William I Joyce - AnnaK Nelson

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that

CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available

and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two

weeks. Nothing has been made available.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,

no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications

that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board

staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide

within two weeks. was Oswald

on)

CIA-11 (Duran's original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran's original

statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)

CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.

Keview board staft research continues. When research is complete, staff will

liscuss issues with CLA

files fian collectim pulled /warten

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). • Copy sent

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review •

Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's understanding that CIA continues

its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the

subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been

located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been

unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,

or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us

whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding

Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape

as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.

Thank you for your help and cooperation.

Sincerely

T. Jergmy Cunn

General Counsel and Associate Director for Research

---

## Page 4

13-00000

IR-03

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests CIA 15 (Ex Gunn)

FILINGUAL: per DO/OGC/ Pereira, primary collection was

restroyed in response to court order; however, documents

nay/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA

and Privacy requests

and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie, two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;

individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will

follow-up with next week.

Per

file on HTLINGUAL

7(3), OGC, search is under way to locate OGC

has action) - will contact

me when located; agreed that briefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old

requests and discuss HTLINGUAL and other new requests

Meetag of Gunn -8/29/96

# will not submit CIA-15 as formal

request pondin, busing a HELENCiL

@ odefiles

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CIA-15 (HTLINGUAL)

Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and

records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL.. To the extent that

HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that.

other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational

reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,

'activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that

you may be-uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our

request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the

extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present

difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may

consider revising the request accordingly.

Sincerely,

sunn inlerests

* Hit on Moject-

* intercepted ileusenly on cover for operation

* Internatinil Rescue Committée

---

## Page 6

13-00000

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SENATE RESOLUTION 21

HEARINGS

BLORS 93

SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

ORNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH •

RECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

OF THE

UNITED STATES SENATE

NINETY-FOURTE CONGRESS

NEST SESSION

VOLUME 4

MAIL OPENING

OCTOBER 21, 22, AND 24, 1975

I for the use of the Belect Committee To Study Governmental

Operationa With Respect to Intelligence Activites

D.S. GOVERNKENT PRINTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON: 1916

For aslo by the Ampertatendent of Document, UH. Dovarunt Priming Odes

Washington, D.C. 20102-Prtos $1.40

---

## Page 7

13-00000

INTAL OPERATIONS

CIVITIES

ER, Actiona

•TELdS. Ja. Maryland

(EEB, Penolfiraala

rel

CONTENTS

HEARING DAYS

Tuesday

October 21, 1975--.

Wednesday,

October 22, 1975.

Friday, October 24, 1975--

LIST OF WITNESBES

•TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1975

Bewert, Gordon, former Inupector Genersl, Ceutral Intelligence Agency,

incompanied by Stanley Gaines, counsel.--"rim pector

Thomad, former

General'S MinE

Mennon, John, former staf member,

Intelligenca Agency..

mborn,

Howard

J.,.

former

Agency, accompanied by Juhn Debelias, counsel

"Director of Becurity, Central Intelligence

WEDNESDIY, OCTOBER 32, 1975

Edward J., former Postraiter General, accompanied by James F.

colael----

rArant, counsel--

ally, James, 8r., counsel for J. Edward Day.

Page

41

119

3

3

3

26

-Igence Agency-

42

42

42

68

70

70

B3

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1975

Lohell, John, former Attorney General, socompanied by Wiliam G.

counsel.

adi, WOlay mond, Anistant Director, Inelligence

Divia

sion, Federal

Bureau of Investigation--

migan, William, Bection Chief ut Counterintelligence, Federal Burent

Investigation.

pore,

Donald E., former FBI Inspector

mia, - John

A.,

Assistant Dirictor,

Legal Coungel Division,

Federal

Bareau of Investigation.

HEARINGS EXHIBITS!

paper General, uran a do i ot de ur Operations

7- November 31

re

Atle Project HTLINGUAL..

8.-May 4, 1956 memorandum froin James Angleton to Dircetor of

F, Central Intelligence re Project HITLINGUAL.

•June 3. 1971 memorandum for the record re meeting at DCI's

but office conceming HTLINGUAL..

119

14?

147

147

147

175

187

195

197

:

ler eriteria determiued by the committee. la

consultation wich the Central Intel-

and

the

of Ioveatigacion,

documenta.

Drocedurce

nOtICeB

the toteroal operacis rther deletione were

lovolved,

and methodd.

of certain

Individuale and groupa

Made

with respect to protecting

"hose delecloen do not chapse the materlal

these exbibies

---

## Page 8

13-00000

IV

No. 5- Augunt 30, 1971 memorandum to Deputy Chief, Counterintel-

ligence re HTLINGUAL Correspondence of members of the

U.S. Government

December 22, 1971 memorandur for the record re handling of

discussion with Assistant Deputy Director for plans concerting

HTLINGUAL

operation

and

congressional

subcommittee

earings concerning tampering with the mail.

No. & February 18. 1961 memorandum from Richard Helms to Deputy

Chick, Counterintelligence re HTLINOTAL

No. I May 19, 1971 memorandum for the record re DOTs Meeting

No. 10 Center 1, 196l Memorandum from Richard Helms to Doputy

No. 12- March 20, 1970 letter from Richard Helms to J. Edgar Hoover.---

Counterin-

with Attorney. General. Mitchell on Domestic

Intelligence-

No. 15 September 18, 1970 memorandum from John Dean to the Attorney

No. 16- Meren 12, 1060 memorandum From SAC, San Francisco to FBi

Headquarters re Confidentil Bource...

No. 17-December õ, 1973 6AC memorandum 58-73.

No. 18- October 2, 1964 memorandum from D. E. Moore to W. C. Sullivan

No. 19 February®

Febrionase,

• 1065 memrandum from A It. Belmont to Clyde

Tolson re the Long Commitice..

No. 20- Tolch, Demon Cale, Raun Sold, Dear Flover to Me

i me more un or De rect re Operational

re Project Hunter, Espionage I

No. 23 August 24, 1966 from M. E. Tripletz to W. A. Branigan

No. 24 May 25, 1965 Airtal from SAC, San Francisco to FBI Head

No. 25 May 3 151les.

1875 Decision in

" Lamoni v. Postmaster General of the

No. 28 January 18, 1966 memorandum from T'Bl Hendquarters to SAC,

San Francisco re Confidential Source.

No. 27-May 17, 1954 memorandum to Director of Security from

Helms re SRPOINTER-------

APPENDIX

October 24, 1975 letter from J. Edward Day to the Benate Select Com-

mittee..-

Page

190

200

202

203

205

206

210

aL1

219

222

224

225

328

232

233

235

238

24l

244

245

249

250

256

257

2.59

INTE

SELECT CONT

The commi

Russell Sana

presiding.

Pregent: S

•Colorado, Go

"also prese:

Schwarz, Jr..

nort

Ibe Chau

Today, and

quiry into the

jing the mail

fundamentall

• laws of the la

details of the

plan.

• One provis

mall opening

"already busily

had been doin

... We are less

grams than w

take root and

How did this

House, the Ji

What reviews

Zin these instit

Though m

is most are th

liberties. The

through whic

function:

As & case s

the inner life

With which

their mall pro

cism of it fr

---

## Page 9

13-00000

MEMORANDUM

AL COLZECTIONS

AWARE INN FULL

To:

azy Harrelson

2000

From: --

= T Jeremy Gunn

Subject Requeststo CIA for R

rds Related Information- UPDATE

Date:

jantaryo, 1997

Fins di

003) 6150124

The followingsalist ofour. cur

Tent requests for information. These should be

considered info

frequests for which weawait your response. If you have any

additional ques

lons: or

esponses, you should call'elther Bob Skwirot or the analysts

ide

Neare wiling to formalize any of the requests into our numbered

sel

WOU

a so prefer

partial

response

10/96

pending

9/6/9

9/6/96

pending

9/6/96

partial

response

10/96

pending

complete

10/96

pending

pending

pending

pending

pending

pending

pending

9/6/98

9/96

9/96

10/17/96

10/24/96

10/24/96

11/06/96

12/10/96

12/10/96

01/07/97

basi aidharles. Are alities In collection?: Il CIA has any

additional fies (eg:, personnel, 201, etc:), we would like to

Spas fallin ide In Box 15 folder 34. Who is the person

signing the DCe messages? Did Raikin work for-CIA? Did

he work-for CD/002 What is relationship between

documents in no and Rakin?

Location of cable identified in JFK

1993.07.20.10 18 29 650630 (Box 34, F 22) p. 2 Cable

number (IN 24738) 7 July 62. We can send fax if helpful.

ManvaD Murat-fles. Are all files in collection? If CLA

'has any additional files (e.g., personnel, 201, etc.), we

would like to request them.

Information on HTLINGUAL

Information on Angleton's filing system at Cl

Location of DRE, CRC, MRA(?) monthly operational

reports

Tapes '

Moscow

Tapes of Alvarado Interrogation

New Orleans, Hunter Leake, Clay Shaw, QKENCHANT,

and ZRCLIFF

Claude Bames Capehart

Howard Guebler

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Combs

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Marr

Combs

Marr

Legaspi

Skwirot

Gunn

---

## Page 10

13-00000

re CIA IR-03

NATION

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

Re:

Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although CLA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**) and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,;

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03

HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CLA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CLA-IR-22 "A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermir L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

---

## Page 11

13-00000

... ats,

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future

reference, they will be referred to by the "Informal Request" (IR) number provided

below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.

This request is complete.

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

•CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in

April 199%. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer

searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the

record.

**CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton's Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to

account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that

related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived

controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton's files, the Review Board

believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he

maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not seek to

explore any subjects in Angleton's files beyond those that may have pertained to

the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided

by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The Review Board requests any

additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the

disposition of Angleton's files.

In addition, the ARRB staff's review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated

additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents

are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Working Note - HRG Internal Use Only

HILINGUAL

Michelle,

Attached is a partial DO response to the HTLINGUAL (CIA IR

The DO continues to search files that have

HTLINGUAL references and for information on destruction of

DO HTLINGUAL records.

The destruction of HTLINGUAL Files is

also addressed by the Office of Security in Request CIA #16.

Barry

---

## Page 13

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

207/N98

20 January 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

(V)

(U)

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

(U)

(U)

Chief, JFK Declassification

Project/HRP/OIM/DA

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Chief, External Support Group/IMS/DO

Central Intelligence Agency

DO Response to Informal Request CIA IR #03

ARRB's Memorandum dated 18 December 1997,

RE: Status of CIA Responses to

Assassination Records Review Board's

Requests for Additional Information and

Records

(U) This memorandum is submitted in response to informal request

number 03 (CIA IR #03) from the Assassination Records Review Board

(ARRB) .

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File

(C) First, as an outcome of the Pike and Church Committees,

HTLINGUAL files

were destroyed. Copies that may have been made and put

into individual's files surface as the files are reviewed. The DO ran a

search on the term "HTLINGUAL." Some records were -identified as

destroyed. Some were not so marked but are not locatable under the job

number identified; however, given that there is no requirement to record

destroyed records under the federal statutes for disposition programs

and given limited resources for noting files destroyed, this is not

uncommon. The HTLINGUAL seach further identified files because of

Freedom of Information Act queries; however, these were not HTLINGUAL

files per se, but files which contained the FOIA requester queries for

HTLINGUAL information.

Fredrick C. Wickham,

JI.

CL BY: 2103140/

CL REASON I.5 (c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV From: COL 19-87

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 14

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

On 8 April 1994, the complete set of SRPOINTER and

HTLINGUAL security support files and indexes held by the

Office of Security were destroyed in accordance with the

guidelines set forth in the approved Records Control

Schedules 31-76 and 31-83 and by the Office of General

Counsel.

see. CJA-lle"

---

## Page 15

13-00000

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests CIA-15 (fr Gunn)

HTLINGUAL: per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was

destroyed in response to court

order; however, documents

may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /

and Privacy requests and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie,

two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;

individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will

follow-up with next week.

Per

(?) ..

OGC, search is under way to locate OGC

file on HTLINGUAL

has action) -- will contact

me when located; agreed that briefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old

requests and discuss HILINGUAL and other new requests

леру

meetay d/Gunn -8/29/96

*will not submit CIA-15 as formal

request pedica, lan?

see-folder in quey box

---

## Page 16

13-00000

≤ (HTLINGUAL)

Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and

records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL.. To the extent that

HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that

other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational

reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,

activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that

you may be uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our

request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the

extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present

difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may

consider revising the request accordingly.

Sincerely,

sunn interests

can permit

*intercepleliusco. in cover lin operatien

* Internatinil Rescue "'intee

---

## Page 17

13-00000

Facsimile Cover Sheet

To: Barry Harrelson

Company: HRG

Phone: (30292

Fax: 703-243-8343

From:

Company:

OGC/LD

Phone:

76124

Fax: 703-874-3124

Date: 09/05/96

Pages including this

cover page: 7

Comments: All OGC has is tie following destruction authorization. I am told that lf you

need the actual destruction record, you will need to go to the DO.

(Linda

---

## Page 18

13-00000

Demarad Serasel

88-0535

SUEMII ORIGINALANU A LURES IU INU

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION

TO RETAIN OR DESTROY QIIESTIONABLE RECORDS

TO ‹ Chial, Information Resourca: Management Division, OlS

THRU: Cumponenil Rocords Mureemand Ollices

Direitorale Records Manusement Olfici

Information Management Bronch, IRMD/O1S

Office of Generad Counsel

1. DESTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION NO. (Arigned by IRMD,/OIS)

YROM.(OFFICE DESICILTONO/ORIGINATON

DDO/TMS/MPG/ TRMB

• DATE PREPARED

• 14 Dcccmber 1989

THE RECORDS IDENTIFICO DELOV' ARE SCHEDULLS FOR IMMEDIATE DESTRUCTION; HOWEVER, THEY MAY DE SUBJECT TO ACIVAL OR IMPENDINO LEGAL OR

INVESTIGATIYE REQUIREMENTS, AUTMORIZATION IS REQUESTEO EITHER TO RETAIM INE KÉCUKUS UN IN UESIKUT INEMAS SLMEUULEO. INE MEGUNUS AXE

BEING HELD FENDING RECEIPT OF AUTHORITATION. IF FURIAFE RETENTION IS RFOUIRFO, REVISFO DUSPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS MISSY AF FERVIDEO TA

INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENY DIVISION.

IDENTIFICATION OF RECORDS

4. SCHEDULE NO.

T3.T. TENUROTT

DDO/ IMS/OSG

40-76

201C02

1954 - 1973

Sco

ALL 1

8, PROVOE DETAILED DEECRITION AMO URTINE ES IICORDE AND /Or AIPAGICOM OR CORM INO, MIJA, LO 10244, MARXED TO INDICATE VINICH RECORDS ARE QUESTION&ABLE.

EAMAIN DASIO FON UEICAMIMINC INAI XELCIRUS ARE QUESHONAELE

PROJECT HILINGUAL

Project HILINGUAL was rosponsible for copying letterg intercopted in the

U.S. Mail guing lu ind from the USSR.

The MILINGUAL Project was declared unlaufui by the kocketoller Commission

and cho Church Committec.

In accordance with their findings and with the

motherical ion of the archivist of the United States und the Senate Committe

on Intelligence, the HiLINGUAL rocords are to be destroyed as soon as per

mitted by

ATtached for reference (Attachment 2) is the authorization to destroy

thase rocords by tho National Archivist

with the concurronce

of the Senate Select Comnittee on Intelligence (6 April 1972 CONTINUED ONIPARATEPACE

EXTENSION OATE

C./OSG

PRISER

_ ADO/ IND

ECORUS MASAGEMENI OFFILER

C/DN/TMO

2-3590 30 Dec8*)

EXTENSION

BATT

2-6033

EXIENDICIN

2-7295

DAIL

1%a0/1y

AUTHORIZATIONTO RETAIN OR DESTROY RECORDS

12, TIRE NAME AND AILINAUXE UF GENERAL CUUNSEE KEPRESENTANVE

EXILNSION

batt

15. TYCO NAME AND SIGNATURE OF CHIEF, INFORMATON RESCUICES MANAGEMENI OVISION DIS

DATE

KETALAPARTIAL:

DESTROY ALL

APPROVED

SAL 'PROVUE JUSIPLATON OR CUNINUEERLENION AISO PROVIDE PROPOSEO NEW DISPOSION INSIRUCTIONS.

"IDICATE UNDIE SECTION DABOVE WHICH RECORDE ARE TO BE RETANEO, THOSE NOY IDICATED FOR RETENTION ARE AUTHORIZED FOR IMMEDUITE DESTRUCTIONI

D

CONTINUED ON SEPARATE PArE

(18 3н).

#-AS

108 141e

---

## Page 19

13-00000

HTLINGUAL INVENTORY

1.

Single xerox copy of opened letter approximately 215.,820).

348

fu. Ft

2.

Single microfilm copy of Indexed postal covers 6922 tilm

cassettes.

3.

B.b Cu. Ft.

single microfilm copy of indexed and unindexed postal covers

job number 77-833 61,235 - 16mm reels: 108 - 35um Film cart-

ridges: and 12 envelopes of film strips).

13 Cu. FT.

Subjecl files maintaned and used by the HILINGuAl analysts on

Individuals and organizations (job number 80-417).

25 cu. Ft.

HILINGUAL index consistine of six (o) reels of magnetic tape

and 37 - 16mn Film cassettes.

3 Cu. Ft.

Administrazive, backgound and referchee files concerning the

MILINGUAL PrOjeCt.

1.5 Cu. Ft.

7. Miscellaneous HTLINGUAL material - ten 610) parks undeveloped

TOTAL:

• 5 Cu. ft.

398-5 Cu. Ft.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

AISHOSITION AUTIONITY

(Sou Instructions on reverse)

GENCHAL SLAVICES ADMINISTRATION.

NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECAROS SERVICE. WASTINGION. DC

2040%

AGEICY COPY

E0x0. 06.4018

•NCI

DATE AFFIVEN

2 G3

1,8

22 AUG 1977

NOFIFICATION TO AGENCY

lo second one e milo lim arariadas al 86 19,5 L 3109o pac disposalre.

ARASON SUDOMDIOS

Opcrations Ditcetorate

3. AMPION SUADINISION

A, MALE OF DERSON WITH WHON TO CONFEA

5. TeL. ExT

George. Frates

3-11-78 or une B Prom

352-1776

E CEATIFICATE OF ACENCY REPRESENTATIVE:

I hereby certily that 1 am authorized du bet fur this agencs in malters pertaining to the disposal of the agency's recurs:

thal the eccoros proposed for arsposal in this Request of _1

- 1ngm(s) are not now needed for the business of

this agency or will nut he needed atter the retention periods specied.

I A Requesi for immediate disposal.

B Request tor disposal alfer a specilied period of time or request for permanent

C. BABE

&. TITLE

BICH NO.

• DESCAPTION OF ITCH

Wilh Brucianina Ondge al Retendida Perdos

AssociaTe. Records linagemeat Officer

ЗАрікан стоЛ" ANS

The tale contains copies of 215,820 Letters and

pholuyraplis of 2,705,726 covers (envelopes) of unopened

letters which were intercepted dusing mailing to and fion

addresses in the U.S.S.R. and related indexes.

The andresses

were intelligence laigets during the period of 1954 to 1915.

Many of the originators and rucipients of the mil tuari

from the targer, andresses vere United States citizens.

Not included in this toquest for disposai are those

copies of lettors and photographs at covers which are at

Lhe uresant tine the obiccts of Freedom of antonarien ArI

roquests and Privacy Acr. requeils, ur those that are

involved in litigation.

Similarly files which docit

he initiation, implementation,

and termination of this

nail intercept projcct (those thar may have listorica

value) will he retied in the CIA and bo maintained in

no can it dear at it car parte on her.

Continuci maintenance of the ffles covered by this

dispusil rexuast conflicts with the provisions of thr

Privegy net.

5 U.S.C. 552a (A) (1) and (7) as rcll as

Section 5 (b) (4) of Excative Ordor 11905.

Armandesiran

Floor 181 CEAS 801 101

---

## Page 21

13-00000

¡equeal lor Recorus Disuusition Autority-Continuation

116-69 8811

MinanciaseDatesa: +61889008490006

Actaches for your review and approval is a Standard

For 115 requesting authority trom the Archivist of the

United States fus the inmudiate disposal uf the Mail

Intercept File.

FYI:

A cony of the SF 115 will be sent to che

Senate Select Commitice on Intelligençe.

APPROVAY.S:

PAGE OE

JOP NO

bels

WITTiam W. Welis

Deputy Dircetor for Opcrations

Paterson

steiner =

Chief, Informazion Systens Analysis Staff

CUNCURRENCES:

8/5472

8/15/17

Date

"Willian"

Boulde

WITTEN F. LONELLY CAnCE

Vi, 23.92?

May, 24,

,1902

*George b. Cary, Jr.

Quy ,4722

Legislative Counsal

• to ra che Senate a derange without the s

concurience of the Senate Select Committee, This is a

suparale process from abraining lARs approval. sub-

mission vi chose lorins to NARS is fully consistent wich

the Agency's obligation to the SSCl.

This page will not be made available to the National

Archives and Rocords Service or the Senate Select

Commirree on Inelligence.

Merised July 1378

Weescribed or General Seroces

---

## Page 22

13-00000

11418

APPRAISAL REPORT ON OIL-OSITION OF RECORDS

Septiades. 9, 1922 N61-263-71-18

VALUE 18318-8990-1963 IN ERISIONILAL EN URINE IS ANI. DANCISORI LENLAINIADDDO. UM DA DO DOC EI INDIVIRURS MICE:

I'TEM 1-

LINIAN. ACCOUMPING DEFICE CONCURRENGE

¿ SEE COMMENS OR ATTAGiO LETTER.

SECTION II- APPROVCO FOR PERMANENT RETENTION

ITEMISI

THAT

1S INICA ACROVED FOR FERMANENT RETENTION,

FoR lie

REGIONS INDICATIO IN SECTIO

OFFCA THESE AFCORDS TO THE NATIONAL

ARCHIVES AND RECONDE SERVICE LS SPICIFICO IN DIE

SCHEDSLEY"

TRE AGELiGI WILL

_SECTIONIN- APPROYCO FOR DISPOSAL ALIGE CONVERSION TO MICROCOR

DISFOSADLE DECLUSE THE RETAINEO MICROTONE IS AU GOTGUATE

108•18.300.

SECTIONIY - DISPOSAL NOT APPROYED

ISIMISS THAT IS CARES NOT APPROVEO FOR DISPOSAL AY INES ITAT.

IME AGINGY NI'S REDIBIT INTO THESE DINGSO SHEN

AISSICIENT INFOSNLTION IS AVAILADLE TO OCTORMING TILL VALUE OF IMEJE REGOROS FOR AGENCE RED LACHIYAL PURPOSES.

NUL MESUEMITTEO WITHIN SIX DETAINE MERS WILL CONTACT THE SCENCY.

ITE ISI THAT NAS IHAVE MEN WITANDANN AT THE DEQUEST OF THE ICENGY.

JAGIATURE OF APPRAISER

APPROVAL

11620 c

SECTION VI • APPROVAI/CONCURRENCES

BY DIRECTOR.

BECOPOS DISPOSITION DIVISION

(55 gOOd) CHOLAS 19. WADLON

Cott.

CURRENCES

DATE

9/03/77

DATE

10/25193%

от 2/25 (г

natc

VAIE

SECIION VUI - APPRESEN'S RELUNMENUATION

CONENTS:

---

## Page 23

13-00000

28-51951

06098000, 160008.

United States Senate

SELECY CUMMITTEE ON INTELLICENCE

WASNETON. O.C. 20510

April 6. 1978

IN REPLY PLEASE

REFER TO QU

Admiral Scansfield Iurner

Director of Central Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

20505

Dear Admiral Iurner:

This Coumittee has no objeccion to the implementacion

of che records disposal list (job #NC1-263-77-18) approved

by the Archivist on March 17, 1978.

sincerely,

Birch Bagh

Birch Bayh

Chairman

.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

SEP. 1.1998

3:5BPM.

NO. 134

P.1

Confidential

Cleastly as Appreartste

SECURE FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

CIA SPECIAL COLZECIIONS

DATE:

I September 1998

2000

SENDING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

RECEIVING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

703-482-10541

703-613 3060l

NUMBER OF PAGES (Including Transmittal Form and Coversheet, I applicable)

4

FROM:

Fred Wickham

(Name / Office / Extension)

SUBJECT:

MFR, 6 Apr 90, Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files

TO: (ADDRESSEE / ORGANIZATION / OFFICE / EXTENSION)

I. Barry Harrelson OIM X31825-

6.

9.

10.

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

RELEASING OFFICIAL:

Fred Wickham

(PRINTED NAME)

I DONKE

(SIGNATURE)

RECEIVING STATION USE ONLY

Please receipt for material by entering time of receipt/signature and transmit back to sending station.

DATE / TIME:

SIGNATURE:

FORM

6-97

4383A (EF)

Classify us Appropriate

Confidentist

CL 1Y8

CL REASON:

DECL ON:

DAV FROM:

---

## Page 25

13-00000

• ."

SEP.

1.1998

3: 59PM

A

NO. 134

P.2

CONFIDENTTAT

6 April 1990

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

REF'S:

Destruction of MICHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files

PARTICIPANTS:

MPG/ IRME

F/MPG

DC/MPG

C/IRMB

IRMB/ IMS/IMO

ACTION:

OSG/RRE :

DOVIRO: :

MPG/IPE:

C/MPG:

IMS/ IMO:

ASB

Kate terrora d

DO/IRO

eldeen scott:

Lou Dube, RRE

:

Identify material for destruction

Recall material

from Recorda Center

c)

d)

Review the material for

destruction

Initiate

destruction

action by keying one

transaction per document

Respond to Reference A, OCC Meno

16, Identity Independent elections silos im 15G

Perform sofA search to identify MicHAos and

HTLINGUAL 11les

Initiate a SPIN search to identily any existing

MHCHAOS Or HTLINGUAL Information AFTER the initial

processing of material

Document meeting and identify action points

a) Initiate action to identify electronic holdings of

b)

MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL information

Identify

and monitor disposition of MICHAOS and

HTLINGUAL digital information

Update procedures, notices, instructiong. etc.

All information that established MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL

will be permanent retention.

places.

It was agreed

to run a apa seren aritate m defferent

the material

CONFIDENTIAL.

1

• 4000

700e

---

## Page 26

13-00000

r: 1-1599

4: 00+M

H

NO. 134

P.3

CONEIDONETAL

was destroyed at Records Center to ensure identification of all

MHCHAOS

and HTLINGUAL

materials.

the SPIN

anY MICHAOS and

EXINQUAL materiaL Mill De kurned Over tO REI fOr

search is done.

follow up review.

MICHAOS

According

to the IMS/IMO,

ive platter diskpacks on

are stored

In TSG.

Room GB0704 OHB.

C/MPG noted

, that we

need to

research electronic holdings of ISG. both HTLINGUAL and

MICHAOS •

Destruction

transactions

Even os material for destruction

It

suggested that, the transactions be done

individually which

would be

less risky than a blanket deletion.

The XlY symbol for MHCHAOS was used for name trace

purposes.

According

to the IMS/IMO.

T9 cubic feet ot

201 files

are

in this category.

Offiolal 201

files are also in the other

twO MHCHAOS Jobs that haye not

should have blank Elle Content Iists

been processed identities

Any Dis material

IE RRE

201

files

that

are

all the documents are in ALISTAR, RRB must

reconstitute the file.

The database

will be updated atter the records

8 Ce

destroyed and J

and Xxt should be deactivated.

Procedures

should be updated.

order of Destruction

HTLINOVAL material can be started on immediately.

TILINGUAL PrOdUCELOn

are 1 112 cuble feet which will

The bulk of HILINGUAL material - 348 cubic feet

destroyed immediately without review.

The remaining 50°

or str categories and needs to be revered. 8.g.

single microfilm copies stored in conserva tiles.

IRMS WIII turn over the MHCHAOS file inventory to

When material

searched, RRE will notify IPE

will search SOFA to identify filas.

should formally

Pursuant to Reference A OGC memorandum, the DO/IRO

comply with OGC's request to determine

it there

any outstanding FOIA or Privacy Act requests relating to

MHCHAOS OF HILINGUAl, that should not be destroyed.

---

## Page 27

13-00000

1. 1998

4:01PM

1d stas

NO. 134 P.4

21 June 2981

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Mr.

William J.

Allard!

Associate General Counsel

DO/Information

Review OfFicer

DEStTUCTiOn of MICHAOS and HTLINGUAL Records

1.

regards to the MHCHAOS records, it is my under-

standing

Order was placed

on all MHCHAOS

files

in June

1976 due to

their Involvement in the fatkin vs. Helms

ltiration.

You advised that wark Lynch, the attorney ropresentina

plaintife in the

case had recently narrowed the class action

definition

to include only

those

individuals cited in the case

as plaintiffs.

was your belief

amended to

MICHAOS recora ernie destruction of all other sex files

that the protective order could

the

Please undertake whatever accion

is te

quired

soon as

possible

so that the DO may destroy records under

in amended protective order.

procede

destruction

Attached

please find five copies of Form 141, oach portiining to a separace

phase of the HILINGUAL file system.

Please

include

your con

-CurIenCe

the destruction of these files by signing in block 12

on 111

coptes.

+ no

Attachment;

a/5

WARNING NOTICE

- Intelligence

Sources

and Methods

Involved

ADMINISTRATIVE = INTERNAL US:

ONLY

when

separated from

attachments

che

RENTVATIVE CL BY 01820/

REVW ON Jun

DERIVED FROM D9C-13

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 28

13-00000

file cy

CLA SPECZAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk

Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT:

CIA-IR-3, Full Computer Search for List of

Documents in HTLINGUAL File

1. This is in response to referent request.

2.

Searches were made for information responsive to

the request and materials were provided for examination by

ARRB staff.

From that examination, staff members selected

number of documents to be included within the JFK

Collection.

Those documents have now been included within

the JFK Collection and are being processed for release to

NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request.

If you have any question, please

advise.

J. Barry Harrels

---

## Page 29

13-00000

MEMORANDUM

CIA SZECZAT, COLLECTIONS

RELZASE IN FULL

2000

September 19, 1998

To:

Laura Denk

Executive Director

cc:

From:

Bob Skwirot

CIA Team Leader

Michelle Combs Michelle Conta

Associate Director for Research and Review

Subject: CIA-IR-03 HTLINGUAL Records

The Review Board's Informal Request for Additional Records and Information asked

the CIA to locate any extant records from the HTLINGUAL mail cover and mail

opening project. Most of the HTLINGUAL files held by the Directorate of Operations

were destroyed in 1990 at the order of the CIA's Office of the General Counsel. A

memorandum for the record found in volume seven of Lee Harvey Oswald's Office of

Security file states that the Office of Security destroyed its SRPOINTER/HTLINGUAL

files in April 1994 in accordance with guidelines set forth in the Record's control

schedule and the Office of General Counsel.

The Review Board staff examined an index, provided by the CIA, to the remaining

HTLINGUAL records and marked folders for closer review. The Review Board staff

reviewed the HTLINGUAL project files for 1955-1990. These project files consist of

monthly statistical reports and administrative records. The more recent documents in

the files pertain to law suits, court orders, or destruction records. These files were not

designated as assassination records. The extant HTLINGUAL records for Lee Harvey

Oswald and several project "soft" or working files are included in the CIA sequestered

collection and have been processed as a part of that collection for inclusion in the JFK

Collection at the National Archives. Additional HTLINGUAL documents were located

in the archived files of the Deputy Director for Plans. Any documents relevant to the

assassination were designated assassination records and will be processed for inclusion

in the JFK Collection at the National Archives.

e: \combs \cia-ir03.wpd

File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4

---

