# 104-10195-10412

## Page 1

104-10195-10412]

UNCLASS!FIED

SUIJECT. (Opranat

FROM

INTERTAL

# COLY

• CON' DENTIAL •

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

DIR 74830- 5545

30:1012

BaTE

PECARS

SCOTT

P4T/V/N

Goospertu

Ha for faloes.

Bm

SINES

, OSWAL)

10.

fils...

12.

13.

ScoT 1S,n

Ts:

15.

5..

610 Sae D SECRET [

CONFIDENTIAL

i757=

SICRET

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 2

1971808

DISTR

ACTION:

INFO:

DE-LNHEO

PRIORITY

OEBATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

•ATIJ»

INITIALS

INITIALS

PWO

1022222

DATE:

FILE:

11 OCT 63

ALUMING AUMELA

5945

OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMA 1 OCT PROPARLY IDENTICAL

LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-2892488 BORN,18 OCT 1932,

NEW ORLEANS,

FORMER RADAR OPERATOR IN UNITED STATES MARINES

HO DEFECTED TO USSR IN OCT 19299.

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

INCHES, ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT DROWN LAVY HAIR

BLUE EYES•

31 OCT 1959 HE UNINETE TO SEOUSE ESSENTED

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP.

ON 13 EF

THE US EMB MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

POSTMARKED MINSK ON

FIVE FES 1261 IN SNICH SURS INDICATED

HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA IF "WE

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE DROPPING

OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME."

ONE JULY ON HIS OW:

TIPPIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE ENR WITH HIS WIFE TO SEE MOUT HIS

RETURN TO STATES.

THAT HE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER APPLIED

FOR SOVICT CITIZENSIIP AND

THAT HIS APPLICATION AT

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME OF HIS RECUEST.

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSWALD, CONTAINED NO REF

TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP•

OSWALD STATED THAT HAD REEN EMPLOYED SINCE

13 JAI 1050 IN PELORUSSIAN RADIO AND TV FACTORY IN MINSK

WERE WORKED AS METAL

WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP.

OSWALD WAS

MARRIED ON SO APRIL 1951 TO MARINA MIKOLAEUNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN PORN 17 JULY 1941 USSRO

I2 ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR AT EXA FOR VISA INTERVIEW•

WAS RETURNED TO HIM.

US EMB MOSCOW STATED TRENTY MONTHS

OF RE-LITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

LATEST HDOS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1952

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AVD HIS SOVIET NIFE HAVE EXIT PERITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILO

SIATION SHOULD PASS INE REE AND PADA ONE_TO

TPELINE,

AND ONURGE LOCALLY. TIPS PARAS

THREE ORIGINATES VITH ODACID.

24 ju.is.

Hil:

7-ü1

INCOMING

---

## Page 3

4-00000

and it!

1571909

-

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

1SS.M.ATI0N

DEIERREO

ROUTINE

TNITIALE

PRIORITY

OPERATUVAL

ANITALS

IMMED-AME

TU

INFO

PAGE THO DIR 74830--Iy 5845

REF AND FOSSIPLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATEI

AND ODURGE.

PLS KEEP

OF OSWALD.

INCOMIAN RUMBLE

CITE

HUNGER

END

OF

MSG..008

:

11/16027

INCOMING

---

