# 104-10221-10186

## Page 1

104-10221-10186

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

• (44 USC 2107 Note)

.. NW 53217 6/20/17

DBB

File Nai

105-12890

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURRAU OF INTESTiGATION.

Miami, Florida

Septener 14, 1967

TIAL -

RO: ° FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis;

RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON;

DONALD FRANCIS ROCHE,

also known as John Henry Schulte;

DE. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA:

JOSE ANTONIO MULET GONZALEZ,

also known as "Ginjiro";

ALFREDO C. FUINIE;

Roported Plans to Blow up Cuban

Ship. in Modican Port, Possibly

Veracruz

INTERNAL SACURITY - CUM

NEUTRALITY MATTER - CUBA

It is to bo recalled that subjects FIORINI,

THOMPSON and RoCHk stayed at tho

Manto

Hotel, Cludad

Manto, Moxico, fron Antl ll to 17,.

1907.

Subject THOMPSON

had narised that FloRiNt, who probably used his degal nann

Of FRANK STURGiS in registering nt tho lante Hotel,

recoived n 9200.00 telegraph money order from ORLANDO BOSCIL,

Miami, Florida, after making a long distance call. to

BOSCH

fron Cladad Mante.

On July 5, 1907, a confidontial source nbroad,

advised that a toleraglic monor ordcr,

Mante, Ciudad Mante, under date of April 13

This money ordor was in the around oi

2, 198 Mexical

Posos

18200.00 in U.S. currency? end 05g deceived and

signod for by FOURGIS on April 13,

This telecraphic

money order boro the namo

of ALdo FEndink? ab the sender.

SEIDETAS

Richard from sutonitic

downrading and reclassification

IS COTT

20-243056

---

## Page 2

104-10221-10186

- CONFIDENTIAL -

RE: PRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

On July 21, 1967, records of the Offico of

United States Immigration and Naturalization Servico (INS),

Al1aml, Florida,

reflocted that one ALDO FERNANDEZ MIYAR,

Allon

Registration Numbor A12-891-565, had arrivod Irom

Cuba as a refugeo on March 21, 1962.

He was born on

October

14,

1921,

in Cuba,

and as of January, 1967, residod

at 2000 Northwest 35th

Street, Minni.

Records of INS

further roflected that ALDO FERNANDEZ MIYAR waS marriod to

ROSA BOSCH AVILA.

On July 21, 1967, ALDO FERNANDEZ MIYAR Was LatOr-

vlowed at his place of employmont, Wolfio's Industrial

Service, 3799 Northwest 36th Street, Munt, Florida.

He stated that he 1s married to ROSA BOSCH AVIIA, sistor

of subject ORiANDO BOSCH.

He donied acquaintanco with

FRANK FIORINd, alSO known AS FUNK STUKOIS, and clained ho

did not sond $200.00 to

FIORINI in Moxico.

Ho stated ho

11vos at 2000 Morthwest 35th Street, Miani, and has tolo-

phong numbor 635-0166.

On August 29,

1007, information was obtatrod

confirming the fact that the

Western Union Felourngh

at Milans, Florida, on April 12, 1967, had recolved

an application for a moncy order

in the amount of $200.00,

payable to

FRANK FURGIS, Hotel Mante, Ciudad Minte, Mexteo.

The sender of the

noney order

was listed as ALDo FERlANDEZ,

2000 Northwest 35th Street, Miami, telephone 635-0166.

It vas

further determined that the money ordon wus paid

by the liezican

Telegraph Company.

The Information pertaining to the above-described

roney order could bacone available for proscention purposes

only upon the issuance of a subpoena duces tocun, dircetod

to the manager of Western Union at Miami, Florida.

- CONFIDENTIAL, -

2.

-.-.

---

## Page 3

104-10221-10186

- CONF T

ITIAL -

RE: FRANK ANGELO-FIORINI; ET AL

On July 22, 1967, tho sumo confiduntial source

abroad, who had advised concerning tho payment of money

ordor in the amount of $200.00 to FRANK FOURGIS in Cludad

Mante on April 13, 1907, further ndvisod that records at

the llotel Minto In Ciudad Manto revealod that ạ long

distance tolephone call had been placod froin the hotol to

ALFREDO FUENTES, tolephone number 197167 on April 12,

1967.

The sourco advised that this.

call was placed by

subject FICKINI.

Tho Septenber,

19G6, odition of the Miami,

Florida,

T'elophono

Directory reflects that tolophone number 379-7108 1.

ilsted to. FUENTE Auto Repairs, 10 Southwest Sth Avenuo, Miant,

Florida.

- CONFIDENTIAL, -

3.

---

## Page 4

104-10221-10186

ГО:JO: (1100.8-15-041

FECERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

9/12/67

Dato

- CONFTDEN

TIAL. -

ALFREDO FUITE was contacted at his garago,

locatod at 10 Southwest Jth Avenue, Hiant.

Mr. FUSNTE

was advisod of his rights nainst self incrimination

and he statod ho had no objoction to answering questions.

PUENTE stated that he recallod that in

approximatoly April, 1967, ho received a telophono call

during tho aftornoon from FRANK FIOrINI who said he was

staying at tho Hotel Nanto In Cludad Mante, and wo

wanted FUME to contact JOSE ANTONIO MULET

BoscH and have oither ono of there call FIoRINi at tho

Hotol Minto.

his recolloction that ho then

mado a telophone call to "GulJito"

• Cho name by which ho

rotors to "urt, at the bacardi Officer on Blecayno

Boulevard, Mians, whero liULt is employed.

Ho stated that

on that sans afternoon, about an hour and a half aftor tho

call was reccavod from FIORINI, Dr. BOSCH cano to FUENtIa

garage and placed a call to FloRiNI in doxico.

FUnny said

he heard BOSCil placlug the call to FloRIN, but did not hear

the conversation.

He said BoSCh! did not toll him what the

matter was about and ho, rouTe, did not quention Bosch

Inannuch as le assumed it was Mitil bustress (Hovimionto

Insurrocelonal de Recuperacion Revolucionaria, tho anti-

CASTIO organisation hoaded by POSCIl.

FUENTE

said he

1s

not a member of the MIlk and Bosch would, therofore, not

discuss MINt acilvibion with him.

FUENCE said ho

subsequently learned

from MollT that FIORiNt had called

bocause he needed money.

arranged to sond money to FIORIll ia lexico.

rates nata le did noi snus no, se anyoned hor

"himself, dis not to to the Weatorn Union Office,

to send boney to FlOkINi.

Ho said he did not know ALDO

JUANDe, brecher-in-law of Oalto Boschl.

although he knowe FRANk FIORINI by the curame AJOPINI, the

Jaiter,In paying FUNTE for anto repairs in the pat, las

signed his chocks with the eurone STuPgIS.

- CONFIDENTIAL.

01-8/8/67

-File !!

Arrant 105-12900----

_ Date dictated 3/13/08-

---

## Page 5

104-10221-10186

DBB

4.2434

• CONFIDEN

RE: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; ET AL

By lotter, dated June 20, 1967, the Offico of tho

Assistant Attorngy General, Internal Security Division,

advised that information thus far dovoloped in captionod

matter, indicated a possible violation of the Neutrality

Act (Titlo 18, United Statos Code, Section 956)•

also ravised that there may exist

a violation of rogulations

1esuod undor Title 22,

United States Code, Scction 1931,

•If the explosivos involved appear on tho munitions list

maintainod by tho Office

of the Munitions Control of tho

State Department.

It was requested that the spicille type

and quantity of explosives found by. Merican authoritios ho

ascortained and that determination bo made da to cho appearance

of such explosives on tho Munitions Control 11sc.

As previously reported, Mr.

JOHN A. SANFORD,

Security.

serconinis and Licensing Officor, Office of Munitions

United Staics Department of State, Washington,

D.C., advised on August 2,

1067, that additionel doscriptive

data oi chemical analysis of the

explosives located negr

Cindiad diante,

Moxico, on May 8,

1967, was neccarary to dotermine

1f such explosives are on the Munitions Control Jist.

On August 31, 1967, i confidontial source ablond

advised that it did not appaar that the Medioan army, to

which blo coplosives located near Cludad Manüe Had been

turned over, had examined the explosives as to chemical

composition, and that for such an analysis io be made a

diplomtie request should be forwarded to the Mexican

This document contains madther recommendations nor

confusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the fid and

1s loaned to your agenoy; 1t and tts contente are not to ho

distributed outsida your

~ CONPTBENZEAL

5#

20l- 0930.56

---

