# 104-10227-10163

## Page 1

104-10227-10163

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

41.A0318 1, A118198

PHOCESSING

MADRID, SEE INDE RIPO.

HIS MOUS AIN, DO QUINED

CAN A CUAT SID

19a8r,

ARENA

Chief of 3totion, JMWAVE

SYZIP/KUCAGE/AMBUD/Operat 10n21

TrOnIMITTAL OL CASSAVOR ReROrta

ACTURI GSIAHHEU RETERSPMAD

•PYI

PRIORITY

1. Under separate cover we ace forwarding PASSAVOY Memoranda

87 through 93.

These

memos ure being referred locolly to the appropriote

sections for

action.

89 and 93 bring up to date local deotolona

concerning matters which have

been under dincuscion betscen. PASSAVOY

and AMBUD-1.

Please suvise whether the AMBUD-d letter (paragraph "

of memo 93)

vas ever published. If not, AMBUD-l is ready to nubmit

1t to other newspapers.

3 •

In regard to memo no. 92 WAVE feels that the FORDO is working

toward

the unification of

Cuban labor clements but 18 not yet in u

position to set up permanent delegation in Latin America.

Rather

the POlIC should be encouroged to worl together with labor entities

In Lotin America which are already eutablished and recognized as truly

democratically oriented and supported by KUBARK agseta.

With the

AMEUD delegations and AMBARB organization throughout Latin Americo,

FORDE through its close relationship with AMBUD con present 1ts case

to the Latin American publlo.

FORDe members of tours throughout

Latin Americo should be encouraged.

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHMENT

Memos No, 89 - 93 (USC)

DISTRIPUTION

3 = Phie:

- Chief, WHD

w/atto. (SC)

dese

+5 465) 19-12412

, CRCES REFERENCE TO

"BAT

CLASSiLICATION

SECRET

VAlE INFED

6 DEC 61

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBEA

UPGA -2823

MEALQUAHITHS FILE NUMACA

19-124-25/2

DATE UISJAICHED

---

