# 104-10075-10113

## Page 1

104-10075-10113

TO: DIRECTOR

ACTIONS:

INFO:

wow. ₴.

TA CI CA/PES.

00/1,

TOOS

22 NOV 63 03087 IN 6682

SEGRET 212217Z

DIR INFO SDOM SJAN CITF WAVE 7975

INTEL' DYVOUR IMPALM

05

SUPDATA: ZRUAICO."

AMDOROTHY-I

AJ

PROTECT TRUE NAME

MERE CHANNEL FROM

OPS SFEÜRLTY

DESCRIPTION

NI-W

TRAVELED SJAN

ION INVITATION

FROM BOSCH.

-RID:

INDEX.

FILEL: E12217Z - REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAi

CONTROLLED DISSEM COUNTRY: DUMINICAN REEVOLIL

SUBJECT: PLANS OF FORMER DOMINICAN PRESIDENT JUAN BOSCHY GAVINO

001: 12 - 16 NOV 63 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (19 NOV 63) UFG 41ED

SOURCE: A LATIN AMERICAN LEFTIST WHO HAS BEEN A CLOSE ASSOCIATE

OF JUAN BOSCH FOR A NUMBER UF, YEARS AND WHO IS TRUSTED BY ROSCH

AND MEMRERS OF MIS ADMINISTRATION.

SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER

AND HIS INFORNATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE IN THE PAST. SOURCE VISITED

LAN BOSCH AT THIS HOME IN AGUAS SUENAS, FUERTO RICO, FROM 12-16

NOV 63-

we ATTAG

THUNDE OU TO CAME MA

I THE ACTiON CON

PRECEDENC!

DO V

DATE UISTIINUTED

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

DoditReproduce

10791

SECRE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT STELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINCY

Phen. Tite

Prote. 1a.

CUNSIFICATION - FISSEMINATION CONTROIS

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY.

SUBJECT

HEREPORT NO.: TOCS

DATE DISTR.

i PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

DATE OF

PLACE &

668522

THIS IS UNEVALUATED mon

TELS AERORINO.

I/purinG S1 E0870N01

SOURCE

FORMER DOMINICAN PRESIDENT JUAN BOSCH Y

CAVINO HAS GIVEN UP HORT DE RETUNIMO TO THE OCALINICAD REFUSLIE

MINO IS PLANNING TO RETIRE FROM POLITICS AND MOVE TO MIAMI, FLORIDA.

2. BOSCH TOLO A CLOES FRIEND THAT HE (GOSCH) HAS BEGF

INVOLVED IN SEVERAL SURINESS VENTURES WHICH ARE STILL UNDER

CONSIDERATION. HE MAY ACCEPT A RECENT OFFER MADE BY A MOTION

PICTURE STUDIO TO TILAT

IS BOOK "LA VIDA DE DAVID" ("THE LiFE OF

A DAVID") BOSE ALSO HAS UNDER CONSIDERATION PLANS TO GIVE A SERIES

OF LECTURES AT COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES IN THE UNITED STATES.

CONFIDENTIAL

CASION

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISS

MON CUNTIONS

TDCS

BOSCH REVEALED THAT HE WAS NOT ENJOYINO A CLOSE

RELATIONSHIP WITH PUERTO RICAN GOVERNOR LUIS MUNOZ

MARIN. BOSCH SAID HE BELIEVEO THAT MUNOZ HAD FOUND IT NECESSARY,

FOR POLITICAL REASONS, TO REFRAIN FROM SUCH A FRIENESHIP.

( SOURCE COMMENT: MANY PUERTO RICANS CONSIDER BOSCH TO BE A

COMMUNIST AND THEREFORE TAME A DIM VIEW OF THEIR GOVERNOR

ENVOVING A FRIENOSHIP WITH GOSCH.)

4. FIELD DISSEME NONE,

60722

---

