# 104-10180-10067

## Page 1

104-10180-10067

RETURN TO 014

Background Use Only

Do Nọi Reproduce

- CONTROLLO On

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL

TELLIGINCI AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CUBA

22-24 AUGUST 1964

TDCS08-315/00568-64

DISTR, 29 AUGUST 1964

SUBJECT

RESIGNATION OF ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAL AND OTMEN MENECA

OF NURE"S NATIONAL EXECUTIVE

UNITED STATESY MEMO (25 AUGUST 1964)

- PLACE A

DATE ACO

• SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAl.

REF

IN 62778

FIRO REPORT NO Ure 5764

A MENDER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN ENIGRES.TRAUMED IN THE TECHAIQUES OF INFORMATION

COLLECTION.

THE GROUP MAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS-FOR ABOUT THREE YEAR§•

THIS' INFORMATION WAS OBTAINEO FROM REINALDO PADRON...

REINALDO PADRON,. A CLOSE.

ASSOCIATE OF ROGELIO CISMEROS DIAZ

OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBARA CURE, CUBAN REVOLUTICNARY JUNTA)

SAID THAT CISNEROS PRESENTED HIS RESIGNATICN FROM MEMSERSHIP IN JURI'S

NATIONAL EXECUTIVE TO MANUEL RAY RIVERO ON 22 AUG 64. IN ADDITION,

THE RESIGNATIONS OF MARIA AÑTONIO GARCIA, SECRETARY OF ORGANIZATION

OF. THE FEMININE SECTION OF JURE'S NIAMI DELEGATION, AND JORGE

ESTEVA VARELA, MIAMI DELEGATE, HAD BEEN PRESENTED TOGETHER

WITH THAT OF CISNEROS.

2. ASCORDING TO PADRON, WHEN RAUL CHIBAS RIBAS LEARNED OF

CISNEROS' PESIGNATION, CHIBAS ALSO RESIGNED. CISNEROS ALLEGEDLY TOLD

unbutbartand parica li

COMTOLFO DESE

CONFIDENTIAL

ARAY/ACS

SCS. SECOU ; NSA. NIC

IdS. - TREASURY ,

REPCINCLANT

---

## Page 2

PARt SN +0499978-968

CLASSIFIÉO MESSAGE

SE CARE T

ROUTING

ROM

ACTION:

NO

JiINAVE.

ОСР, 450₽,

w/5a 12,

DOcS,

CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, 61/00S, 61/1E 2, F8, 50/0, MI/DAT 5R.

SECRET 282119%

28 AUG 54. 23267

il+: 62774

DIR INFO SUAN CITE WAVE 1887

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AYTAUP-2 I! DO-BIOR OF 24 AUC 6% FREI REILALDO PÄDRCN."

PARA & SASED UFS-5759. RID: NO INGEN. FILED: 28/21192

5.92221

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSES

• CUSA

SUBUECT: PESICNATION OF ROGELIO CNNEROS LIAT AND GIER MEMBERS CE

JURE'S ANTICHAL EXECUTIVE

DOI: 22-24 AUG 64

PADA: UNITED STATES, 19:49, (25 AUG 67)

UFG 575%

SOURCE: A ME SER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMICRES IFAINED IN THE TE:..GUES

OF INFOSMATIC COLLECTION, THE EPQUR HAS FROVIDED USEFL REPORTS (ES

ASQUT THREE YEARS TEE INEOEIATION MAS COTALED FROLETSIEE E

IN COMMENT:

103

Mr SA

ME PACY

12

RELEASING I WO

Cass V. Kringeny

DATE: DISTRIBUTED: $

AUGUST 196%

C609г

TOCS CO-315/00568-64

* I ROUTINE

BASED ON -

PRIORITY

U56 5764

¿NAF. (NO PROJECT).

LAISON

REPRODUCTION.BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED..

Copy Ma •

---

## Page 3

COMBOLED OISSON

SES MPO DAN 1800

"and

TNCSCe-315/00560-6PAOK

CONFIDENTIAL

MADACH INI MANUEL VAMELA CASTRO WOULD SUBMIT HIS RESIGNATION SHORTLY.

3. PADRON ASSERTED THAT THE RESIGNATIONS FROM JURE WERE

MOTIVATED BY THE FACT THAT RAY FAILED TO KEEP HIS PROMISE TO BE

IN CUBA BY 28 MAY 64.

4. (FIELD COMMENT: ANOTHER SOURCE WHO HAS REPORTED ACCURATELY

FOR MORE THAN A YEAR CN DILE POLITICAL DEVELOPNENIS IN GENERAL

REPORTED THAT CISNEROS RESIGNED ÖN 22 AUG BECAUSE HE REALIZED

THAT CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZATICN WERE DISSATISFIED WITH HIS

LEADERSHIP..)

FIELO DISSEM: STATE, FENNESCALSO SENT SAN JUAN.)

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSEN

room!

---

