# 104-10163-10123

## Page 1

104-10163-10123

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

MATERIAL RESPROD AT CO: MEAZURETINS TE

HOUSE STASET CArMINA DO ASSASCISANDOUS STAFF RES

FILE TITLE:/NICINEY/VOLLIE:

ARTIME - Buess, Manuel

201-267437

Volume XY

INCLUSIVE:

DATES:

: CUSTODINI. UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF AVY:.

Third Szency nociments

DAT!

WAI!:

RECHIV:I

RETURNED

7 AUG 1978

i Aug 1988

REVIEWED BY

(PRINT NNIE)

Leslie WIZELMAN

SHONATURE OF

REVIVING OFFICIAL

Seale Wielmon:

NO LUCUMUNTS MAY MA COVIND ON MMONED FROM THIS MIN,

---

## Page 2

xe ing

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Sarcery Ilouara (Bsbert;

tia Stantra 30C97 261-351238

#XXY-6792: LIOO2ZA balLeNes iSarta LUGIOTO DOLERCO, SORDRS DACY tO ANhITA PORTUONDO 1N MIEE

L7 47016 : W111 bo soplaced Dy Siorara SANCA:2, Cubes Comelo mho F79n nlly ln Habean but

21 nor 60 pedtèmt dl lerico fo set yru.

115029 - Jenra El:7E Fobort, mo haa replaond tnrta LUCIOrO •n dety 1a dabna Dit, lert

dee 60

T'¿ 10T0 f6 Babana 30 Nu 60. 9,Ul to mrt at leb Imetlatoly da unr becisoe al

NO LAPUUNTE "Top BecTot" doc. She sald rn 33 Biou shat Veento ulllclA Onrola.

OPARÁBA RINO AI 1a CFIOntO FOTioCH MItl Vore 30r engrto: SAICHKS,Iund In Mirdeo1

dor you endnarhled to res ta ron she 1s nou esvureed, Has ? eatairmo la Conal

Tnti nay alns be ubo o! Cuben G%: (LIPTII ANl LIOCELA), JCA: IUTTRS-Entd Chat

frea clRsnes at Soviab, aii olfer ¿a Cuba lor jENIlala's dereher Mieento. iCr

unel sped that Vioerte kurbicl left kurc for rabura la Gup. FOR ADD'L DEPAIIS -

:ENE RPT POR COVER CÓARINIS. LITZAT SOBd 5Dee that Subj anle são ua livine ne

EIncoquerecatl 32h, Apt, 6. Subj'e boyittend eppeare to be (Sau) QNTIORA C DeTOlI

noeg 160%5

• Dea 60, so identliladlo laso 1n hgo filon inder saby mama es eny

wsriations.

art 7349

XI . 00%6

'16 Ves 61 = MZIY = Auseian spking S0e. Qu'en Anb Mazlo: Beeter. CALlO atend parti

Subf'a hone at Tlacoquernoat1 3246 Colende del Valle, Mud, Sev. jovs, lubnna

e Anb Antanto PO TUNDO Valdor & uiie netendodo. Suspont "ii una for NUCICE jruRo mplaltatlon

---

## Page 3

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

La fai. #1

ISA 16010

Subl bellevod to be in contact vith Tatlara & Ivan KIPPTU, papected Son Arent.

(LI FRAT)

HHM-5927

An I Ase..

A12 61

C3-329L

13?

HM4- 5860

e due auty told Merlherto CASTILiO, uha heada Graderee Por "chrjeai

1 Sep

61.

C5-3/466, 300

Sube, that elcheto lad been recd for ê perBana, ire. antonio dirsio.

noo.. lo Subj., Ministry of Foreler. Commerco of Cuba rienda 3 os la pertors 83

umalate Rusalan Boch booko, or to tell techniciana what the booka suy,

that trondelane con sapriy the toch vorda.

1n coder

amony thome to whor tha position va

effered Via Benita ¡INDIOLA Carica, & young Spanish girl.. (LIEVOI, 1-3)

091-6320

N9 178

be trunsferred;

satd she amecte

1 2115

17 Apr 62

Int'oloturn traffied indicates she das been seirine fussian.,

і мо ф..

Pia", atta

M1l/3A watch LInt

•dorn ea 1927, Cuba, Seeretary and contaci of ferasa PRUENZA el Cubari

20. Dee 63

Imb Nexd.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

€ =.

• AIRICT AND CROSS KEFERENCE

+ 0079

CLASSIBICATIGN DO DECORO CONT

SOURCE INFORMATION

BOUNCE COUPTONTA

EvALUATIOn

VENT OF CATE

2».

If appileadio)

ARTIME BUESA, MANUEL

201-267437

SEX M DOB 29 JAN: 32

CUBA, CAMAGUEY

200011-011007

UFAA-04436

02 OCT 72

CIT USA

OCC HALF-ONNER

AREAS OF ACT-CARIBBEAN AND CENTRAL AMERICA

INFO MUST NOT BE USED IN NAME TRACE WA OUT

CUNSULTING FILE

HDCHZP872

COR!: CARO

R 7301301318

Indicate The Subject, Project Or

201 712e No. In Which Tale

Torm. Is To Be Filed.

#ide tel

802267437

PONs 867

SECRET

17:408

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

feloa galled des

EXTHACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

BATE DI DOC.

COPT

DOC. BUBJECT

SOURCE INFORMATION

BOUNCE CATATONTH

BATE

EVALUATIOn

VERY OF EXTRACT (Adoe elee dina

ALYING EUESA, MANUEL

2 1-2+7437

*I* • COE 25 JAN 32

CUBAD. CAMAGUEY

200-C11-011/07

UFAA-(4436

02 CCT 72

CIT USA

CCC HALF-CHNER

AREAS CF ACT-CARIOBEAN AND CENTRAL AMERICA

INFO MUST NOT BE USED IN NAME TRACE iD CUT

CONSULTING FILE

MCCHZP

R 7210040048

Indionte The Subjeet, Project Or

201 File No.

In Which Thin

Porm In To Be Filed.

Pirede

adad des

801-

267437

Been 067 toe

DECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

15.

(Muting hell 25 gene 65%

Japan ila? de d1ap9541e 110095160b6 16s1181

- QUITed WSSIBIOSH WSESIHIOSH1H028S 80 18139 858 80202-

Mato de

Artion cat placa.

de We 199819

for penaloan lo depenaries

nando! 80144941-4691

001IE0+00n.

MuiTO Ware

N: 089-6849960819

azourte ter

pubiscailons and broad astins

realida In the cins ase de the

principala.

*plained thae the maintonaris of MaR offlien

dad

008VO A 134444

Amansador Thompson saiu chas the Dup remone profirrad o são.

•alia suarallon racher chan a lomoue progras.

qientlona ao to mathor Artino corred a Ms donoso lacol

ennered af!lradualy; la face,

#o. 100 100086298 out

¡abol, blo sofluace mong

•#16 ason hla appear to be e pucandial ciosca

d.

i in

000,

mached la clint all ararel dias uili be

beiger by seu trai.

Tiro, the sim approved

for the andantenlo por lon croaram

CURAS FORECASA

The Cuban Forecae, jor Junel July reintred Palauherda do

070, 14 Juna 1965.

SECRET

146.

306

gol - ume 1465

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

ferocidic

12 July 1088

AMORAIDEN FOR THE RECORD

DUBJECT: AOCAUStION OR AMBIDDY-1, 1010 July 1968

I Called to ABIDDI! by telephone on !.. & and 10 July

With the uint of the conversations outlined bolou:

MaIDDY-I hid two long convermation ith Muler

Merath of Paname on 30 June and 2 July.

They dinsund

the contor for studion of rural cooperative at un

Trimoince vilingo In Veragunm Province, Panami, that 1

bons dovoloped undor tha Bimhop's nupices uSth sapport

from Invard Untvernity and which has tro there at

Prof.

and sost viasting the conter."

George Lodge Ie the Harvard reprementative

Al recolved a letter

Prof. Lodge aming for auigamnt of a expertenied

mn to tho stait of the center.

Bishop McGrath reported

the requent, naylag te would loke to have two me to 100n.

• posalblo, •1th a total of nia by Jrary hes F plane

to inerous tho progran.

Tao two nen colected vero Mlvaso

POLO Co

TAlLO (201-739973) and Heutor LEQUISEDO DIAN

(301-101933) both sorroes from Oriente Province and forr

Canados 1..08.

M-l-aahad the Binhop what part the

Covermont played and was told they approved, although they

vere not directly Involved.

A-1 understands thet the center

WIll trnin nindents fron all over Latin Amosica and has

alrendy arcatod nore than tienty studento fron sveral

The five man security force left by fl It Monkey

1048,

"icarians,

1a sedition te guarding a vanposs cache,

continvon to toast the locl Indians In readine, witial.

Buste opersilen and maintenanoe of machinery, and rice

Planting.

The commity Sovelopmont/clule setion training

POgrEE fOr

IRa monbors which A-l has been running in the

woniers in Miant In ahout half f1ptmhed, He has about

"-wty on attendine reclarly after vort with several other.

attending wherere-they can got amy fron theis Jobs. The

SECRET

---

## Page 8

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

clan 10 nor studylag organisation of rural cooperatives.

Silvano PORO 10 chiel intructor for this panse and vtll

Do pent to Panams an soon as the clumses la Mail are

completed.

#I han bought a mall farm (18 serom) monr Wit

Palm Bonet to dovelop an « nodel farn for hia tralntag

program.

He in Installing onerators, vate, punpu, and

otartin so raleo chickens, ato.

He hopes eventunily to

bring a few studenta at a tim from Letta Amorica mo him

prosTal progrenDed to thou idea what cas be done wish

mall plote a propor farmias techaiques are unil.

Al received another moongo fron Bollula maying

In •110ot that the mitution vas still about the samo end.

van asias 1a be voro ablo to vinit there. Ho tallo.

then agate

nt our requent) and agreed to be out of. tom

or otherulos soboduled until the matter dies a seturnl

dont.

payle, all tuition plumn $100 por nou3a mubalatonce in Germon

universition to three ol-l's people who havo boon living 1a

Toy o1!1 do to Cormany 1e Agunt to stady the language

for sia mouthe then bogan their studies.

They: an Angol LAVANDalA,

comonten; Carlos MAYO, enginering; and Luis CAVADA, engineerin.

This 10 fOllor 1p to tho sooting A1 had &n fon with tho Corma

antonendor that van arranged for lin by the Vations Beretary d

Otato Jant Docontes.

Al in lonuine 18 or 14 July for about 10 to 15 days

vialting Contral

Anories.

to will so to learamn firut to talk

It frontint senter and General Somont, then to Moniay Point

to chool on the coniltion of the bune, poourtty of the urn he

mn enshoe thore, and to obnerve the elvie notion tratning ham

mon thore are senseting for the local Indlans..' 3o vill thor

To to Costa Nea to talk with President Orlich and Foreten

Mininter Oduber who have sunt word they would like to met wit

Bis to soon do convenient for iim.

Fron there no "ill go do

Paris to me Prinident Marcon Robles, who has boon exprettn

a for coveral wee

Al rill dueribe the project be la

Shout to o*or "1th Bishop MoGrath and Profesnor Lodge and

confirm Proudent Roblem® attitude toward 1t.

A1 #111 almo

w1ult Tornman Provinen and look over the training conter.

SECRET

1.

Cane la

---

## Page 9

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

brondennting had been approved. for 812, 000 monthly.

Bratiflod to roceive continued support for the movemens..

I told

him s rould try to set the July paymont Iato the bant through

the old ANORLD funding mechanian pending developanut of a nee

famisme system.

7120198-2 802

SECRET

---

## Page 10

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

= Ang 1365

LENORANDLO FOR: THE 303 Concittee

SUBJICT

:.Proposed icectir-cion of Support to danuel

1. This paper reguests approval for CIA's recorcendation

as outlinei is paragraph 7 below.

2. As of 1 May 1965, CIA termirated dis support ci

Manu! Arties's parasiiltasy accavitias. CIA la now proposino

that support to Artine and his novement be resumed oa a smaller

scale and for a 'totally distinci, psychological warfare purpore

'J. Artime's cooperation with. CIA in the liquidation of

mla paramilitary organization vas exemplary, indicating his

recognition that his long range interests are best se-ved by

cooperation with the United States Governmet even though, ag

pas sonetinos happened, our objectives and those of his move-

ment may conflict in the short run.

818

cooperalive attitude

as ere-plifted in this case pointa up the potential long range

notulass to our government of his and bie organizatios, te

Movimiento de Recuperucion Revolicionaris (URR), both now and

In the pose-castro period.

Seversi factors are important in assaying Artine's

Ce particular sigulficance at presant is the

entige mnich Artime continues to enjoy, boch among his own

Commitricts and snong a number of latin Anerican leaders.

Chia prosties te due to several factors. Not the lens: of

these of cordal is that, thanks to the covert support given

Na Do cat, 56 pazsat21 tary activity of his movement. even

3: 64.19;4

---

## Page 11

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

-2÷•

thougs inadequate, was nonetheiess the most aggressive and

Jarge scale effort conducted by any exile organization. Of

even more long

range importance, perhaps, is the fact that

Artime and the MRR have represented since 1958 an effort at

democratic, Catholic-oriented reforn within Cuba--one which

originally allied Itsell with Castro as long as be appeared

ants-connunist, but broke with hin as soon as his connunist

connections became evident. Artime himself was an important

lender In the field of ag-icultural reform in the early days

of. the Castro regime, when he was de facto chief

of the

agricultural reform program in Oriente Province, Here he

Invented the systen of "rural commandos", 1.e., Ercups of

ntudents who worked in the rural arens with the less privileged

youth, teaching reading and writing, public. health and sanita-

tion, organization of cooperatives, improved agricultural

methods, and similar sujects. (Information on his efforts

does not, by the way, sten only fron Artine; & large number of

members of his novement were debriefed by CIA in 1960 vien

they left Cuba. Many of them were later trained as part of

Brigade 2506 and fought in the Bay of Pigs landing j Thus,

Artime has more of a clain to a reputation as & partierl end

idealistie reforner than do many of his fellow exties.

Pinally, 1t should be noted that he 1a a natural leader. Ho

in able to instill enthusiasm for his Idens in others, and

han mhown considerable ability to hold hia followers together

under adverse circunstances.

Although deficient as an

EYES UNLY

SECRET

---

## Page 12

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

.1=.

12281

oranzer, he bas the virtue of being villaig to delegato

anthority to shose more competent in this respect thas so.

5. Because Artime in a born politicia and propagandast

who can be useful nou, and because he has potential as a

lesder In post-Castro Cuba, CIA prOpOses tO COntInue suppor?-

Ing him to the extent necessary to preserve the MRB. This

organization, "hich has representatives in hall a nen latin

American countries as well as la the United Staten and Spain,

claims approximately 5000 members and sympathizers. It mates

radio broadcaste to Cubn from the Miams aren and publishes a

well-conceived monthly maganine, Joldente, With circulatios

of about 6000, Finally, 16 supporta a number of dependents

and fanillen of killed and captured Ill nembers. Total CIA

expenditures ander. the proposed progras would be about 315,000

montaly, broken down as Lolloua:

Support of MIR offices in U.S., Spain, Honduras,

Guatemala, Colombia, Costa Rica, Venezuela. •

• $ 3,300

Publication of Tridente ....

.. .

8,000

Radio broadcaste to Cuba •

1, 800

Artine's travel 1n Centrai and South America• • 3,000

Support of dependenis of tilled and captired

iah membera

...

....

.....

5, 000

TOTAL . $12, 000

Bo. IS the above basto elemanta of his novement recsive

covert U.3, support, Artine Intenda to turn ite oun main.

•¡fort to the development of the rural commando concept la

certain particularly ende devo opod arend di latin America.

EYES ONLY

+.91

---

## Page 13

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

GES CAU

To tais end, he has bad discussions vice the presidents of

ColOmbia, PaDaDA, COStA RICA, GuAteRalA, and NICATagUA, all

of whos he clains have evinced varying degrees of interest.

Most recently, ho has received an invitation to +1u1t

President Barrientos of Bolivia, an Invitation salmulated by

‚One of Barriestos' representatives in the U.S, having heard

in ml brondcast about countering subversion through civic

action. Artime plans to accept thin invitation, going to

Boldvia after a visit with Ironident Robles of Paname. CIA

does not at cata time have any plane to support Artime's clole

Betson offorts, preferring to leave them to the lastlitive of

Artime and the countrion supposedly interested. It In con-

ceivable, horver, that 11 these eltorts apper to catch on

*molves, there might be some virtue 10 Covertly suppor*

Amn then lates.

T. It 1a rocommended that CIA be authorized to support

Artime and the ARR along the lines indiented In paragraph 5

DES CHU

Bart

---

## Page 14

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

EYES D

26 J000 1765

SUBJECT: Prepass Feasilrasica el Sayport so Manas! Artime's

Antonomous Faramilitary Group

The organination headed by Mesol Ard's, the Movinionto de

BorEpOraciCa RITalsciODAria (MRR) la sAgAriOS DY CLA lO bars sa imporant

polantal long rango valuo.

For a aunder of yoara ClA has malatal sed

• close clasientino rajasenship with chla greas.

The male activities ol

the Artimo group bavo baos barsonmein, sabciago, and payehologlead artar

Artian's importance, from ClA'o Mempoler, iss sol so much la conductiag

high "nolno valua" basardon Mirandoran actione, but la lo survival ao a

continals paychologleal ehreat to sho Caosro segime.

Do 301 Committoo has nos shared ClA'e enchantaam for Artime.

A yaar ago (18 June 1966) Me. Aleda Jabason, cheal merabor of the

Committoo, stated that the Artimo raldo ecald cescevably provolo Cantro

Into nalag SAM sites and amphasined that thin poeniblity should not be

Masonatod. In November 1960 tha 303 Coraraltino anchorinod CLA ta suppers

Artimo los a perlod al frora 60 1o 90 daja la erder to enabie his lo develog

→ No galadonchipe with an lateral dobldent grosp, but to discourage bla

from continuing his raldo os the Cubas eazar.

Those were only "pia pricks"

the 101 Committee Dalierod and of little raius.

The dilleulton lavolved ln trylag is contral Artlos and lie groip

lod to the tinal decialen by the 301 Commitree on Y Jaauary 1963 chara

nbally to Artime be paid througs tha mola of Inaruary und possibly for

Iwo ur three menthe charcafter.

Artime was te be ancouraged to concen

It on deniopmont of laserol sporalious and curtall els "grandatand

"portions."

Dy 1 May, bowever, ClA farmlanted 18s support of Artime'a

paramiliary sentes by direction of the 301 Commite, alibough covert

relatomhip win am bas continued.

•To tapes is she sppacito pago encourages the 101 Comica in

EPPrAVO ONCe mOre CLA's desire, los ToTy valle enrillacal readdad do

mentionas la paragraph 3, ls rescurale Artire and preserve the MAR

DESENSITIZED

EES CALY

---

## Page 15

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 31 DECEMBER 1966

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: MANUEL ARTIME

INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

FBI FILE I: UNKNOWN (MIAMI, FLORIDA)

MAN

Do 19660c5

---

## Page 16

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

File ERo,

---

## Page 17

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(2)

орты

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(3)

*33

---

## Page 19

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(4)

---

## Page 20

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(5) *

L

---

## Page 21

14-00000

DISPATCH

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 42121332

SECHIT

AFA

FASECT

C.

Gales of station,

Chiel of Station, JAVE

31e1. MID

AMBIDUY-1. Lotter on Venezuela

* Set MOM

1N0 ZINGA

Torarded under separate cover for your general 1af0r-

ntion are portions of an AMBIDDY-1 letter which pertain

to Venezuela. The letter us witten la the SlAVE aren

Immediately upon return from the trIp AlBIDDI-I recently

took throughout latin Ameries.

Attmelment:

Distribation:

A TR DECIS

26743

CS CORY

BICIST

OFFICE

WH/EV

5701-367437

Dimtribution:

1

RI

Chrono

1

WH/COG/TI

1 - 75-120-23

ORIOIRATING

tv

COORDIMATING

4521

DATE

OFFICE PENAME

WH/COG/TI

p...

B9101 STARE

/WH/:

OFFICER IGNATUR

Deo

DISPATCH

---

## Page 22

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

UNCLASSIFIED

COMFIDE.

SECRET

FROM

USE

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Attached report from ANRIDDY-1

WH/Cuba/FI

amitone, a

2 Decenher 1966

tailing)

1.

DATE

NORMANDED

OFFICER'S

INETIALS

DC/WH/COG/ER

Copies of the translation of

the attached report from A'BIDDI-1

have been sent to the following

country deska: (and 070/10)

Please file in 201-267437

WEI /000/13

10.

RI giles

610 va. ange

SECOST

• CONPIDENTIAL

CAL

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 23

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

yees

Dear Jim:

1. Pations Dossesree

deport

• Sentee

l. According to information recléved

In San Jose, Costa Rica, who has Islende who have Infiltrated the

Communist group of Marcial Agullur, the following ia reported:

It has been approximately five months that Nicaragum and Costa

Ricans have been trained in the farm that Marcial Agullur owns

by Rio Claro (In ENTXXXXT the south of Costa Rica). This training

In given in suall groups of 5 - 10, 1a order to be able to hide and

so into the interior of the jungle that in there in case the

л. .

government of Conta Rica makes & surprise Inspection, They (Communista)

think that Somoza 1s expecting an Infiltration of merrillas frOM

Cubm through the Atlantic and they plan to surprice the ilcaragun

government by infiltrating this group through the Paelfic 1r

Nicaragu. Then as soon as the Government of Noaragua mobilizes.

and trope towards the Pacific; Fidel will mand another group

through the Atlantic. They hope to do this before the elections.

They hope that men who are already In Nicaragua win prepare their

arrival by creating chaos, sabotaging, and terrorten. They have

brought Incendiarloe end equipment for sabotage Into Nicaragus and 1t

appears that thay have & great cargo of arms in LSON (Nicaragua).

2. According to Information from Alejandro Montero, a Costa Rican

who in married to a Cuban, the followig 1o zaported: In the

"DONINELLY" apartmenta in San Jose, Costa lilch, where Alejandro

Montero lives, there alno lives one Lute Campon who reunttes weekly

in his apartment. (I think 1t 1u M8 In"DONINELLY") with the tal

Communint lenders. Manuel lore, br, Duratin, Dee korert, 1ad 000

Rnisel Cantillo, Alejandro Montero has heard talk about.

File: ArBUdDY-A

---

## Page 24

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

-2-

certain plans in store for Nicaragua, plans for which Marcial

Agullue vent to consult about in Cuba, They (Communicant the beeting

miting for the arrival of Marcial, "hon they supposed rould

bring the name of the individual who was supposed to arrive from

Cuba, after Marcial had roturned, to take charge of the Nearaguan

business. They K00Wl. ( the Conmunists at the meeting) assumd

that the mn who vould take charge could be lar Santos Pastor,

Costa Rican, whn is now in Cuba. Montero also heard them speaking

mbout an interrier that tora Valverde, Marcial Agulluz and Aguero

(an obstructionist Nicaraguan candidate in the coming presidential

•lections) hall, the last time that Aguero me in Costa Rica. It le

Alejandro Monteros" opiadon that 11 Aguero 1u not in on the conspiracy.

then he in at least he ls Inforned about all of 1t.

S. Upon looking for information about the individunla who meet

In the mpartments Doninolly, I Investigated Rafael Castillo,

"Iins "CHITO." He 1a a Communist who has been ta russia and Cube..

He gets money by taking the relatives of exiled Cubana out of Cuba.

He le a personal friend of Fidel Castro. He 1a a brother of "one of

the men who is s confident friend" of Daniel Oduber Lik

(his, Rafael Castillos', brother 1s owner of the Night Club "Caraca®").

This (Rafael Castillos") brother always stood by Daniel In the past

presidential campaigL.

Rafael Castillo plans to go to Cuba soon. (I think he was scheduled to.

leave the 1ith of Jay-ury).

Rafael Caettllo hag in his house, which le at the same time an office. .

mnd 10 situated 100 varas (280 ft.) to the north and 75 varas (218.4 ft)

to the eant of the sranch of the Banco de Comta Rica 1n San Jole, in

---

## Page 25

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

accoutrement of:

3 M-3 grapeshot

5 M-1 Carbines

10 -l (garand) rifles

1 51fle with a telescople targot hole

This man, Mario Castillo, has a telephone number 252296, and HINX

he has a pick up, license plate C-7981.

who live in San Jone, Costa Rica.

t As I was almost 11ke a commission agent for the "Scopitone, Ime."

of Chicago, I had two XXXXI commercial Interviews with Frank

arshall, at the last interview he told me he wanted to speak alone

with me (at both meetings there had been present two representatives

from the scopitone co.). I made an appointment with him at the Hotel

"Conta Rica! IT where Scopitons: had a suite.

There I spoke alone with him on 12 vecember at 12:00 in the afternoon,

In hotel room #204 •

Fo told me that

he wanted to buy arms fron me, that he knew I had.

I told him that the ones I had had in Nicargus I had turned in to

the government (that 1s false), and that there were only some left

In other places 1. Contral America. I told him I had to know 1m

what cause these arns were going to bo utilized, I also told him that

I had the moral obligation to kill be vigilant and see that the

Communists would not utilize them. I told him that I was not a

vendor of arms, but a revolutionary. (I talled to him about this

trying to get information out of hin, becuse there arm of mine are

only for Cuba and againat Cantro.)

---

## Page 26

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

told me that he needed then for himself, that he espected a

revolutionary outburst fron one moment to the nest in Costa Rica

and that he didn't want his "private arsenal" to be smuller than

the ones that Calderon GuardiasM-p

port

Pepe Figures,

jodubers and the

Corrunists had (according to him each of the aforementioned groups

had their own arsenals).

I asked him when he needed these arms and he answered;NOT.

I told him I would have to take three weeks to think about and then

I would give him an answer: he answered after thinking for a wile:

Okay, I can give you one month to give me an answer but no nore.

My opinion is that he is in a plot to overthrow the government.

The situation In Costa Rica le very bad, for the unhappy president does

not have a definite political group to support him, and therafore

he is in the hands of the diverse groups to advocated him:. Calderon

..^

Guardia, Ulate, Schandl, Frank Marshall, etc, there are persons who

"ach have a group who respond to their own sectarinn interests and

not to Costa Rica, and who respond much less to the President.

nttack fron the state in order for them to give & counter-attuck and

stay in power"

5. On ? Decenber at 1:00 Fo. I had an Interylou with PIT Daniel

Oduber XXXx' (Inwyer) in his office. (about three blocks from the

Hotel Costa Rica).

He X! spole badly to me about Don Pepe Figueres and "Chico Orlich",

ho told that they wanted to eliminate his presidential aspirations

for the coming campaign and postulate Don Pepe again. He maid that

they (Don Pope und Orlich) were the Johnsons of Conte ice and he wie

the Kennedye

---

## Page 27

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

I' lucky, he said, that they are stupid and that they are not avare

of the fact that an attack is being created and they are not...

prepared for

that energency. I am prepared, he told me. Then be

told no that he had an sirfield big enough for a C-46 on his far,

close to the border with Nicaragus, MANNINTH! on the Pacifle

aldo, and that it the determined nonent ho could receive arms at

that place. He again asked for my collaboration in the case of

I revolt In Costa Rica and he concretely asked me that if at the

time of a revolt I would help with technicians and arms.

6. About Dr. Alvarez Tormo: He has stayed in contact with the

poople of the Cuban Embasy In Mexico. He le very worried because

there people ask for information and he does not know wat to uay

for the contaet fron the Company that spoke with him in Mexico, pole

with him just one time ind he has not returned to spenk with him

gain. He cannot find him because thoy aid not leave him the neconary

mignals. The people fron the Cuban Embassy In Mexico paid for bie

trip to the hounge which was at the Basque Center that they gave the

professors of the medical faculty of Havana (DI. Alvarez Torto was

•. professor). Dr. Alvarez Tormo was one of the spenkers. This took

place the 3rd and 4th of December In Miamt.

Dr. Alvarer Torno gave then detailed inforation on everything that

was said at the function (by suggestion of Don Manuel Guillot).

They have brought Dr. Alvarez Tormo iron Cuba, photographs and

letters fron his reintives. (They were brought by the people fron

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico).

Ir. Alvaren Tormo musneste that all the cuban exiles who have relative.

Living in prison in Cube mhould be shecked very cautiously because

the people in the Cuban Imbanay in Hordoo have a magnificent network

---

## Page 28

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

of these types of agents who, because of blackmail, are giving

inforantion.. I ask you that you treat Di. Alvarez Torno justly

because he is playing with hin brothers 11fe. I think that an

work can be very useful.

In order to connicate with Dr. Alvarer Tormo ve MIX have ostablished

• new code:

The base of the code la in the amll book: "HI PRIKER DICCIONARIU ESCOLAR""

witten by jose Ardanuy Olague, from the publisher Vasco-Americans,

In Bilbeo, Bpain. The key in the following:

the firat number le the page of the book.

After thin first number is placed a broken mign.

The necond number is the number of the line where the word that you wint

to say 10.

Only vords in the dietionary that are Capitalised are uned, that 10

to say the firat word in ench line, the Xl word whose defiaition

in put after the small letter.

the words in the key are separated by a dash (:).

If:you do not obtain the book I will obtain it for you.

To A short tine ago Mr. Zulueta, who resides in Spuli, arrived 1a

Miami for & short stay. This man, who spoke "ith Antonto Sunt, told

him that he had brought me a message fron someone who was in Spaln.

He told hin that ir. Domingo Alzpurua, who resides in San Sebastian,.

18 & very cione irtend of a Conmuniet Spaniard who 18 in Cuba, 1n

the state of lister, in Oriente Province. He told him that thia

Basque Communist every year goes to France to the town of Hendeya,

that in close to the Spanish border, and fron there he calle Domingo

Aispurus, and Domings: meets with hin in france. (the Communist cannot

enter spain that's way Domingo goes to Hondeys a town which 1e

91oge to the border with Spain, but ln France, Hendeya in close to

---

## Page 29

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Sea Sebastias.

At the last meeting Ill that they had, this Communtst told Domingo

that he us tired of Comunian and that Il be could elenase himself

sith the vous he rould leave the santa at Communiss. Dontago, the

so not a communiat, told bin that the only my of cleaning himself

with the Went us to serve for a wile la the ranks of Communts.

for the vost. He then sent no. this nestige with zuluets.

I have piroady started to inrestigato lhe unmo and exact place of

ronidence of the Commnist, for. he ena be of great help in Cubi,

being elme to linter, 1or us.

With nothing olme for the moment, I, YOut friend, bid you goodbye

---

## Page 30

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SERDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICAT.

• TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

COSFIDESTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

DATE

3c

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

001

BRIENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATIOR

PREPARE REPLY

RECONMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

you key ве емал? en

landing though some of tha

atacke сисимлу

Rica

Payl

ita: Please

sel That

perlenes

свистк

Saace in Cutene

POLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDIN

UNCLASSIFIFO

237

SACHKT

(40)

---

## Page 31

14-00000

PRiOR TO FILING

forwaid to RID

recorda

significant scion takes

or consents requir-

ing preservation

FROM: *e

RID/ 4 A

SECRET

_ CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4-

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TO: ACTION BRANCH

I'Ele na aid title shown are not proper. li.

Bert proper tle no below and forward doc-

ument f- RID/AN.

PROPER FILENO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPRCPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

DATE

RECRIVED

tarkates

WHC/Os 16N0006

WHt CoG/RR

'hor

NITIAL

21/11

Alical a Barbaroja opporates

unt cockus

CH COG/RR/PE

17966

18.

14.

1B.

16.

17.

TRACH

REQUEBI

wOnt

410g

PREVIOUS

FiaS TITLE

PILE NU

MANY COOLI

2201-367437

DOCUMENT DATI

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 26409

la Deca

SECRET

1408

---

## Page 32

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

DISPATCH

Chief, WH

PRINCESS:NG

SECPET

10

0UFO

FRON

Chief of Station, JMUAVE AL]

SULT TYPIC/Operational

C Manuel ARTIME Buesa, Fire at Chicken Farm

CRON NEGURED ENDED

Action Required: FYI

REFERENCE: WAVE- 3809, para le, 25 October 1966

MASON IRS DESA.

ARSTENCY

Attached herewith is a copy of a fort Pierce Times news

article, dated 24 October 1966, which reports Subject fire.

for

Attachment Herewith

News Article

Diatribution

_ WH/C w/att

81\35793

Catan

CS COPY,

DATE TYPUD

9 Nov 66

DATE DISPATCHEDD

NOV 1 0 1966

i tram wunmalls)

F$&I8g 89S

120.

267437

201-267437

---

## Page 33

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Joy mies

Arsomisis

0872: 1510

A7B 1n

diamoun Fire

By ED GLUCKLER

A fie naich destroyed sire

cancken rinch, may tave been

chared bere Surday by Blay.

Del arme, abour du, el Miami.

Arone is beliered to bare

Drea oce of the leaders al 230

anti-Cas:

forces

defeated

in

tie April 1%, 1961, Bay of Pigs

intanian.

Sterill Roy C. Bater of Man

tie County

said

this

morting

Bbas State Depusy Fire Marshal

H. A Geiges al West Pilm

Beach would be calied to inven

rigate a blaze that Deputy Shea

If Frank Prevait said "post-

tirely was set," a claim made

almo by Anime.

A $7,300 loss was estimated

uhem a trailer, actached frame

building and part of a chicken

house on the ranch went up in

Mamen on SR 710

about 12

mmies northweat of Indiantown

mary Sunday.

LOST in tie blane, were nine

small motors

and

an unspect.

Bed number of chickene.

Ardma, whose address was

MANUEL ARTIME

• • • now a chichon ranchert

who said ha had not recognized

the anti-Castro leader.

A large pile of logs beside

one of the buildings apparenty

and been fired to start one part:

of the blare, Prevatt said, and

(Turn To ARTIE, FE. 3)

ani intent is is id

niven as 1270 N. E. 8500 St,

Alianal, reported the fire which

was discovered by Anime and

two other men, Jose A. Goazal.

•n and Eugenio Claude, both al

no ot Miami,

Artime told Prevalt the men

arrived 'nt the scene to find the

trailer burzed,

the attached

Building destroyed and the

chicken house ablaze.

The sniches raci is located

Gl Suarise sroves: Arime owa-

od the trailer, the frame build.

ing atenched to the trailer was

owned by Gonzales, and chick-

en coop was owned by St. Fran-

eis Inc., which has the same

addrous an Artime In Miaml.

PRIVATT SAID Arlime and

Gonzales, both of whom spoke

Quent English,

cold him that

they violed the ranch about ov.

ery three daye to sole call MEGA- 26409

pelrigarate the enca produced by:

#ome 400 hoos.

"Arume told me hô felt sure y

for

Castro archis wore rospoissible

Attacinin to

IS COPY

ARTASE

1:-5aaddke

sie clifter bouse.

Tiere were to electie wire;

near ise bags, tiniel bad 308

burned is he veg fares be,

cause of se camp meter, Pre

vatt said.

Arime was coca described as

eso of to "Godes Boys ef

the CLA-sporsored Caban inva-

Bina. One el the c:: y sipport

ers ol the Cubaa revolusion, tel

fought is when it became obvi

our that it was beiag led cowa

il a communist tail

ARTiME

WAs cancired

te the invasson and in

receat

morthe has been beier.? iser

eited in

training activises of

counter • revolutionists in this

country.

Along with the fire investiga.

tion, i was tadicated here by

the sherift that possibie activi

ties

concerning the traleing of

soldiers

at the 22-aere chiehen

may

be

investigated

Martin. County was among the

Jocations listed for establishment

antl - Castro training camps

racent months, along with

Telamere In Indian River Cout-

and the Belle

Glades aral

al Palm

Beach County.

A tratning camp reported west'

et Faim Cly, adout six monthe

ugo, disappared o ver night

Whas a lovesiination was start

ect

506-269437

---

## Page 34

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

FARE #ED!

BET. TO BOAR

761-268371

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE E

SECRET

BEPRODUCTION

DISSEM BY 08

CT 10!

INFO

E RID COPY

Lose Dearero Dovero

CA/PEG

SECRET 282035Z CITE

28000 28185

DIRECTOR INFO

JMWAVE

TYPIC

do AMBIDDY-L'S MID-OCTOBER 1966 VISIT

DESIGNED MAINLY

DRUM UP SUPPORI PLACE CUBAN QUESTION ON PLANNED AGENDA LA HEADS.

OF STATE MEETING AND GET VENEZUELA TAKE STRONGER ANTI-CASTRO.

POSITION. AMBIDDY-! SOUGHT INTERVIEW WITH PRES LEONI OR MIGH GOV

OFFICIALS THROUGH NICARAGUAN AMBASSADOR BUT UNSUCCESSFUL •

ACCORDING CIPUN 1, AMBIDDY-I MET RAFAEL CALDERA, SEC GEN COPEI

PARTY, CIPUN-1 NOT AT MEETING NOR KNOWLEDEABLE WHAT

TRANSPIRED.

SECRET

BT

2 NO STATION CONTACT WITH AMBIDDY-! DURING HIS STAY.

SEC

ES COrT

2g 1252.20

p: H

2011267437

28 Det 66

---

## Page 35

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

anima

LO EID COPY

.... O...D

SECRET 2617362 CITE MEXICO CITY 2$52

=O DIRECTOR, UMNAVE

2560: 2607E

MIC 23:00Y

(IN 25337)

REF$

MEXICO CITY 89?2 SNOT SENT

Ji FOR

SACKGROUND, DOCTOR AMARE CALVAREZ» > FORMO,

MEMBER ANTIDDI-I GROUP AND PROMINENT CUBAN EXILE RESIDING MEXICO

WAS APPROACHED BY CUIS I0 INFORM ON WHEREABOUTS AMBIDDY-I AND PER-

FORM MISSIONS OF INTEL GATHERING FOR CUIS AGAINSE CUBANS IN MEXICO

AND CENTRAL AMERICAR COLNTRIES WHERE ALVAREZ TRAVELS FREQUENILY

AND MAS CONTACTS IN LOCAL GOVIS.

Z= ALVAREZ CASE APPEARS OFFER SEVERAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR DECEPTZON

MARRASSMENT. ONE POSSIBILITY SUGGESTED BY ALVAREZ WOULD BE FOR

LATTER TO IRFORM CUIS THAT CUBAN AMEASSADAR TO SPAIN SENUS COOBRIGUEZ?

LOECHES IS I" CONTACE WISM MAR.

ALVAREZ CLAIMS RODRIGUEZ wAS

FRIEND OF POLANDO CUBELAS. ALVAREZ INSTRUCTED NOT TO DO THIS AT

PRESENT. REQUESTI

COMMEHT HOWEVER OG-ADVISABILiTY PASSING

CUIS SUCH IETORTATIOS IN FUTURE.

ALVAREZ SUCOULD FLY MADRID 23 OCT ON IBERIA FOR 1S DAY

BUSINESS TRIP.: STATION DIES NOT BELIEVE HAS CUIS CONTACT FLAM

COULD DE CONTACIED IN

THROUGN LABORATORIOS CASTESON,

GEC

9144

---

## Page 36

d-italo

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

PACE 2 MEXICO C:1Y 2952 3EESEI

RICKES

CALLE VIRIATO SO. 54, TELEPHONE 224-64-93. NO NEED CONTACI HOVEVER

UNLESS iUS SÜ MEGUESIS AS CA: DE DEENIEFED UPON RETURN MEXICO.

STATION WILL PROVIDE RECOSMITION SIGNAL MEEDSO FOR

_CONTACI

UPON REAJEST

SECRET

вТ

NN30

---

## Page 37

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

"48II0T?

-м.

SECRET

2I RID COPY

Dora norro Do

me, Xe, c/our 5, c/01, c/EL2, Shes/5s

SECRET 2523107 CITE MEXICO CITY ST? .

DIRECIOR INFO

JAWAVE

SECTION ONE OITIVOS E LAD

. 260r0:25337

FYPIC AMBIDDY

DIRECTOR 44736

15808(10 492)

MUNA S66T, T OCT 66

To: MEXICO CITY CASE OFFICER USINA ALIAS PETER SO KRAUS OR

"PIPE" AS VAR NAME MET VITK DOCTOR AMARO CALVAREZI TORMO ON 2U AND

FIRST MEETING SURVEILLED BY LIEMORACE TEAN AND 10 MOSTILE

ELENEITS NOTED IN AREA.

LIENBRACE COVERAOE CONTINUED THROUGH

21 OCT THEN DROPPED.

2: FOLLOVING IS RUNDONN OF MEETINES DETVEEN ALVAREZ AND CUIS

REPRESENTATIVES TO DATES

28 SEPT MET WITN DR. (FNU) CAPOTE ANd CUIS REPRESENTATIVE

¡DENTIFIED AS (FAUS VALVERDE, AS REPORIED REF C. VALVERDE

DESCRISED AS APPROX FIVE FRET EIGNT TOCHES, TE POLIOS, HEAVY

SET BUILD, SLOPPY DRESSER,

BROKEN NOSE BENT OVER UNDEN RIeNT

EYE LIKE FROM BOXING INJURY. IN ALVAREZ OPINION, VALVERDE MERE

IN MEXICO ON TDY. FIRST MEETIMO HELD RISTAURANT RINCON GLRU>

¿ LOCATED NEAR CALLE MULA AND HIHE PERDIDO.

SECRET

---

## Page 38

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

3237 VITA VALGIACE ALONE, NELD AT

ECITORS UF HESTAURALI GRIDA ANDON CUIS CONTACI PLACE:

CO THIRD REETILO MELE 6 OCT AI AMBASSADOR RESTAURANT OR

#VEMIDA REVOLUCICH, VALVERDE IURMED ALVAREZ OVER TO RAMIRO

CABREU) QUINTANA, VICE CONSUL CUBAN EMBASSY MEXICO AND NMOVI

CUIS OFFICER. ABREL SET UP MEETING PLAN FOR EVERY THURSDAY

THEREAFTER AI LITILE PARX LOCATED BEMIND LOMA LINDA RESTAURAMT

OS AVENIDA REFORMA, COLCHIA LOMAS. TRESE ARE CAR MEETINGS

MELD IN ALVAREZ CAR.

D: ALVAREZ MET WITH ABREU OU IS OCT AND 28 OCT AI LORA

LINDA SITE. 28 OCT MEETING COVERED BY LIEMBRACE TEAM WHICH

CONFIRMED CONTACT.

E ALVAREZ VAS TO MEET ABREU AGAIN EVENING 22 OCT BEFORE

ALVAREZ DEPARTURE MADRID 23 OCT FOR 19 DAY BUSINESS TRIF.

ADDRESS IN SPAIN VILL DE LABORATORIOS CASTEJON, CALLE VIRIATO

HO. 3A, TELEPHONE 224-64 - 93. AS OF MORHING 22 OCT WAS NOT REPEN HOT

GIVEN CUIS CONTACT IN SPAIN. CABLING

_SEPARATELY.

ALVAREZ LIVES AT CALLE MARIANO ESCOBEDO NO. 692, APT. 36,

PEXICO CITY, TELS 33-96-20, EXT 36. PREFERS CALLS BE MADE TO HIS

OFFICE RATHER THAN HOME.

: SECRET

---

## Page 39

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

A. FOLL ARE REGLIREMENIS OR GIST DESIRED AIMS CUIS FOR

CONTACE VITH ALVARZZS SPARAS A AND B FROM VALVERDE, BALANCE FROM

ABREND.

A• LOCALION AMBIDDY, ALVAREZ MAS INDICATED AMBIDDY-I IS IN

Be THROUGH ALVAREZ FORMER MAR CONNECTIONS AND HIS CURRENT

MIDILITY TRAVEL THROUGH CENTRAL AMERICA, VOULD VANT INFORMATION

ON MILITARY, POLITICAL, SOCIAL STATUS GUATEMALA, MICARAGUA,

SALVADOR, COSTA RICA, PANAMA. AND VENEZUELA. SPECIAL INTEREST

IXPRESSED IN MILITARY OF GUATEMALA AND CUBAN EXILE BASES IN

MORIN NICARAGUA• CUBAN BELIEF THESE FOR CENTRAL AMERICAN

DETERRENT FORCE FIGHT COMMUNIST REVOLUTIONS. CLAINS GET INFO

FROM OTHER SOURCES BUT WOULD WANT ALVAREZ INFO FOR CONFIR-

MATION®

20.: PLAMS OF EXILES AGAINST CUBAN ATHLETES IN MEXICO FOR

GAMES. THIS WAS REASON FOR MEETING OF 22 OCT.

D.

• HOW MUCH MEXICAN GOVT KNOWS OF CUBAN SUBVERSION

ACTIVITIES BASED IN MEXICO, ESPECIALLY THAP INVOLVING RECENT

QUATEMALA ARMS AFFAIR.

"i=.

OPINIONS OF MEXICAN GOVT ON CUBAN EMBASSY AND ITS ACTIVI-

SECRET

---

## Page 40

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECH-

...:

•S ARE MA-1000:111"

CH ENLIGA MATIONIA INDIA

" ASTO IT ALVANIA ANEN MARIO SICARESS REVIER. (NOTE!

PORCLA MARINE IS 1 SIDLESON OF THE CUBAN AVIATION BECADOS..

!" "2I1:O.? DIATOO 1S GUSABS BELIEVE BECADOS ARE PEMETRATED

EY VOTACT.

DO OPIBION DO ORDINAN ON CUUS PILAFIEL, UNO IS CHIET

ON SITA FOR COLESY MOU

MO UNY DO LABORATORIOS CARLO ERBA TRADE VITN CUBA. THEIR

OPIMIONS OF CUBA. THERE IS ONE ITALIAN WHOKING FOR FIRM VHO

TRAVELS TO CUBA FREQUENTLY, "HAT IS ALVAREZ' OPINION POLITICAL

LEANINOS THIS MAN. ALVAREZ OPINION IS THAT CUBANS DO HOT TRUST

THIS ITALIAN

- TO 20 LICONETSO! AND & NAVE FAMILY IN CUBA? INPORMATION ON

LOCAL EXILE COMMUNITY SUCH AS LIROOX-I, ALBERTO (GARCIA) MENOCAL.

PUPEY (BARCIA RENOCAL, MAX SANTANA, ALSO THAT LICOMET-2 HAS

AÇCOMPLICE LICOMET-24 WHO THEY WANT INFORNATION ON.

DO EXILES OR WOFACT STILL HAVE PHOTO SURVEILLANCE OF

CUBAN EMBASS' (STATION COMMENT? COMMUNIST RCOKSTORES

MEXICO CITY PRESENTLY SELLING "INQUEST" BY EDARD SAY EPSTEIN

SECRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

ICE FE PERCO CIM SORREEEEN SECRET

IN GAITH IT: STATED WEFADY TANES PHOTOS OF FIFSONS ENTERING

ANS LEAVING CLEAN ENGASSO MENICO.

•SO ALVAREZ GOT IUFO FROM DOCTOR "RUSTY" DUANE, CUSAN EXILE

RECENTLY PAROLED LUTO UBITED SIATES, THAT PLOT A OOT AMONGST OLD

GUARD COMNUNISTS SUCH AS JUAN MARIMELLO AND BLAS ROCA, TO FILL FIDEL

CASTRO. ALVAREZ SMINKS DUANE NAS UNCLE MIXED UP IN PLOTTINO AND

THIS SOURCE OF INTO, CLAINS OLD COMMIES TIRED OF BEING MANNANDLED

BY CASTRO AND PLOTTING REVENGE, DUANE ASKED THAT NOTHIMO BE DONE

WIIN THIS INFO UNIL ME GOT MOTMER AND SISTER OUT OF CUBA. DUANE

THROUDH ALVAREZ ASSISTANCE MAS RECEIVED MEXICIN VISAS FOR THEM

BUT IT WILL BE APPROXIMATELY ONE MONTH OR LONGER BEFORE THEY EXIT.•

ALVAREZ PASSED LUFO TO ABREU THAT THERE PLOT AFOOT VAGENICT OLDAGUARD

CONNIES TO KILL TIDIL BUT ME COULD NOT GIVE ABREU NAMES UNTIL SOURCE

HAD RELATIVES OUTSIDE CUBA.

ABREU OFFERED GET RELATIVES ON F

MIAMI VITHIN ONE WEEN AND ONCE IN MIAMI THEN ALVAREZ COULD GIVE

HIM HAPES. ALVAREZ REFUSED DO THIS EXPLAINING. TO. ABREU THAT ONCE ME

is",

NNEW WHO PEOPLE. WERE DESIRING EXIT, ABREU WOULD HAVE UPPER MAND IN

SITUATION. DOCTOR DUANE CAN BE CONTACTED IN MIAMI THROUGH DOCTOR

CHEC, HUERTAS.

SECRET

$1

SECRET

---

## Page 42

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

sa a como de seo ae

CRET

pi....

ASOCO SIL TI MUSI LOS LA TALELE EY FASEIS

CRÄSI DIS FRIAN AMADE CLELAS. ALVAREZ INSIFUCTES NOT 20

THIS AT PRESLITO MOVIVIR, ALVEREZ GIVEN CLEARANDE TELL AGREU IMAT

CISAN EXILES IN TOUCH VIIN JORGE CUARCIA-GERIDO AÑO GUSTAVO PROLLES

DE CURAN SPURTS DELEGAT IGN RECI:TLY EN SEXISO CITY. CARCIA-PANO

CONTACT APPARESTLY MADE BIL MOLLE NOT..

DO OTHER INFCANAT ION WHICH MAY MAVE BEARINO MOS ANALYSIS THIS

CASE COMES FROY ALBERTO CARCIA MENOCAL VIA ALVAREZ. M:QUEL GUTIERREZ,

¿INAN EXILE OF SPANISH ORIOLN, VORKINO FOR TELEVICENIRO MEXICO, IN

CONTACT WIIN PILOT CINUS GRACIOLA UNO REPORTEDLY FLYING MEXICAN .

ARAS CLANEST INELY TO VENEZUELA FO. MRRO ALVAREZ OPINION IS.

• GRAGICA MAY BE SUST DUPE IN ARNS SHUGGLINE RING USINE MAR AS ALLEGED

DESTINAT SON.

CASE OFFICER OFINION, ALVAREZ IS MIGHLY INTELLIGENT, CANES-

TINE AND SECURE INDIVIDUAL WHO FULLY CAPARLI PLATING AGINST CUIS.

SECRET

---

## Page 43

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SPE?ET

!FATIMIIG, DILL HAVE TO APPLY EMAXES TO REP MIN FRON INITIATING

#N ONEATIONAL, SLA:TS S:ION AS ALDEADY DONO PARAS È SAD 6. ALVAREZ

WILL ALLEY STALIAN BUO HIS CAR FOR ALETINGS WIIN ABREU. MISH POINT

PUNT AT TIRST MEETIVO, ABREU DROPPED MINE IN SEAT OF ALVAREZ CAR.

THEN MACCEEDES FISH AROUND BY CRACK OF SEAT FOR RING. ALSO ASREU

ASITO ALVAREZ FOPACADACHE MEDICINE AS ANOTHER REATINO ANO USED THIS

AS PRETEXT TRAMINT GLOVE COMPARIMENT. ABREU AL SO TLICHS RADIO SWITCH

SET 2:E ON DURINO MEETINGS. ALVAREZ OPINION IS. AZREU LOOKINE FOR

RECORDING DEVICES.

DO REGUEST MOS AND JAVAVE RACHOROUNO INTO AVALLALI. ON

ALVAREZ AND PRIOR STATUS VITH VOFACI, RIDUST ASSION ALVAREZ

CH YPT ON YH.

F18. INDEX TORRES, DUANE, BARCIA-MANGO AND

10N ALVAREZ•

= tizio

SCRIT

81

SECRET

---

## Page 44

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

HENCEASE CHECK CLASSIFICATE

OF AND BOTTOM

LICLeSSIFIED

CONFIDE 14L

SECHET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

BAME AMO ABDOMEN

DA TY

FR

File: AMBIDDY+

ATION

APPROVAL

ATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

2n October be told see

si lette a

reg 1a 237

UNCLASSIED

8se previous editions

CONFIOENTIAL

SECRET

(40)

• NO. GOVIBUNNNT PRINTINO OPPIES + 1900 1 280001

---

## Page 45

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

UNCLASSIFIED

"UTER N AL

SE CALY

I CO•" DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

D

SECRET

Chief, IH/Cuba

IT/C 66-479

BATE

PACERS

DORWANDE

1500

C/WED

C/W.H/C

DC/WH/C

1 t03:Please

state

Takingaction. barte

an advan

a, well.

10.

1 %.

13.

8a48

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE: ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEC

renderoi

---

## Page 46

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

WH/C 66-479

26 0CT 106

DEKORANDM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT:

Termination of Subsidy to

Manuel ARTIME Bur.sa

paragraph

"request for your approval 18 contained lo

As you are aware the Agency financially supported

the AMVORLD "unattributable operations" through ARTIME from

June 1963 through April 1965 at a cost of approximately

seven million dollars.

As of 1 May 1965 CIA with the

concurrence of the 303 Comittee terminated this support:

3.

On 8 June 1965, CIA sent a proposal to the 303

Committee for restoration of support to Manuel ARTIME's

nutononous paramilitary group on a smaller scale for a

totally distinct psychological warfare purpose. This

proposal recommended expenditure of approximately $15,000

monthly diatributed as follows:

Support of MRH officies in U.S.,

Spain,

Honduras, Guatemala, Colombia,

Costa

Ries, Venezuela

Publication of TRIDITS

Radio Broadcasts to Cuba

$ 3,200

• 3,000

1,800

A TINE's travel in Central and

South America

8,000

Support of dependents of killed,

wounded and captured MRE members

4 t3 tp

$15,000

TOTAL

The 303 Committee approved the above proposal.

SECRET

Escluded Iron. Butaratre

Cree 0 1:3

L

---

## Page 47

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

STORET

-2-

In September 1965, DC/u/Cuba agreed to the

decision to cut ARTIME's subsidy to $5,000 monthly

(ostensibly for support of dependents and survivors

of MRR dead, wounded and imprisoned), as of l. October

1965. 0f the $5,000 monthly aid, $2,000 according to

ARTIMB was delivered to Father Llorento who in turn

transfered the funds through the official Spanish

pouch to Madrid to a member of the Embassy of Spain in

Havana (QUANTUM-51) •

This official was later declared

ING in Cuba and returned to Spain.

5.

On 4 May 1966, ARTIME was told by his Head-

quarters case officer that effective l June 1966 the

"stipends" to persons inside Cuba, who were allegedly

receiving it through the Spanish Embassy,

would be

terminated.

Therefore,

effective 1 June 1966, ARTIME'g

payments from CIA would be cut to $3,000.

At this time

ARTINE wAS

also advised that strict budgetary. linitations

were now being imposed on

all government spending because

of Viet Nan and other commitments and that it was quite

Ilkely that further cuts or the elimination of the

renaining $3,000 ronthly subsidy would occur in tre not

too distant future. At that time ARTIMB was alao encourared

to seek gainful employment and to encourage anyone who wag

receiving money from him to do likewise.

He was alao told

that the Agency would be willing to assist him in obtaining

legitimate employment or to help him in any necessary

training to obtain 1t.

Since this date ARTIME has continued to receive

the $3,000 monthly subsidy the majority of which he must

mpend for his owu personal expenses as he continues to

travel rather frequently in Central America and maintains

Lle

home

in Miamt without any other income.

ArTINE's contribution to the Agency's operational

offort against Cuba in the past year has been negligible.

w/Cuba feels that continued payment of the $3,000 subsidy

is not warranted and can no longer be juatified.

In view

of the present budgetary limitation on Cuban operations 1t

osa nell be utilized for more significant and hopefully

ure prodictive activitles.

It 1s not belleved that termination of the

romalving subaidy rould requiro 303 Committee concurrence

SECRET

---

## Page 48

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

GEORET

is granted to terminate the subsidy without 303 Committee

approval, we would plan to advise the Coordinator of

Cuban Affairs for Department of State, Mr. -Robert

Stevenson, and Mr. Willian Bowdler, Staff Member, Natlonal

Security Council (White House assistant), before

notifying

ARTIME.

This is considered necessary since ARTIlE 18

likely to try to use Mr. Bowdler or the CCA to press

CIA not to terminate the subsidy.

Your approval is

requested to terminate the $3,000 monthly subaidy to

IPTIME effectivo 31 December 1966.

WH/CUDE

APPROVED:

Hel.

Western Henlaphere

ision

: * OCT 1968

Date

."?.

SECRET

---

## Page 49

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

"iani

22 Cetober 1966

Dear Jio:

Just a few lines to infors you of my trip through Latin

America:

1. The meeting with SpenzA was at "Las Minas" diste a publie

celebration of the Liheral Party was heing

It was on

4 October 1966.

he tallied shout

the rossibility that he would

go down in listory hy foring i ravolutionary governent,

honest, with an indisputalle socia! planning.

I eold him

that he did not need money nor power, only international pres-

that he would only acquire that international prestige

Yay Rica she vete trying co thiate hat he in guat

one more dictator.

lle cormented favorably on everything that

I told hin.

le talked about the mecting of Presidents and

of the possibility that the subject of ClilA would he discussed

in private, in secret conference.

whose re-

port I sent with Carl.

ceived a messago from ALVAREZ Torno, in code, using a hooklet

that he gave me as key to the code.

But honestly, I have

not been able to unscranhle or decode what he says.

rate, I already wrote to him telling him to explain the code

to me clearly.

I am sending you the message received, with

the booklet that serves as a key, to see if you understand it.

I also made contact with the "Chess Player" who is going to

Cuba and whom you

can sise.

I arrived in Costa Rice on 7 Octoher 1960 in the early morn

ing.

eutonohilc.

I stayed et the home of Juan NIREZ Madriz,

present Secretary for Orannization of the rational Liberation

In that house I obtained the paners that I am sending

you, or the tablo of organization of the Party.

On 9 October

Rope FIGHTES

to Juan's house to visit mc

at 12 noon (Costa Rica time).

le had lunch torother.

Ilc

analyzed for mo the situation in Costa Rica in the following

manner: The lovernment is not ahie to govern und will fall

Coverancey They Cuttonal Liberation)

Frank MARSHAl!. as conspiring to overthrow the

Government.

should wait for the

coup d'etat to occur so that they

thei: come to the rescue

of Constitutionality and squelch the robola.

They should not

SECRET

tantudas from astomatie

Mannales ly 83d

eatlanti isalton

201-967437

---

## Page 50

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

help the roverniert.

¡le srole to ne very critically r? "onicl CillE?

and told

tine residential aalitier

had flinded hir

re that,

unfortunately.

PIUIFP paid too cuch

attention to nja

steel.

heart (nistressi, nose nane sas alcira, and clar that liesle

one was the

one the lad airised his to

he "soft" with: fore

nunisr curine "r!oroes clectoral corraigro le told re elat

his oninion was that the little girl las a Cerunist.

( 1

found rut later alout this little airl: aleira coloriolasTy

Ioho.

20 years of age, sneals spanish ant understands Inglish,

woe sise see reneel elemene de scene to de thae this"

(It scene to he chat this

girl, in effect, las ocher "Connunist friends".)

Pepe told me that he nas verg saddened ho the misunderstand

ings that there had been

hetricen us and he assured me that

he had realized that he hai heen a victin of the sane in-

trigues that I led been.

He told ne that Adolph BEalE hap

pened to be visiring in San tos?, that he was a very good

friend of his, and that he had a

high opinion of ne.

lle told me that he wanted to leep in touch with me and that

he would arpreciate it if I would write to him frequently

and that I

should

not pass through san Jose withrut seeing

him.

lie invited me to go the following day to the Comeno

ration Celebration of the Party, that he wanted everyone to

see his affection for me.

DDURER in the same nace (Juan NICEZ"

He was very

courteous to me.

was the same as Pere's, with one exception: he is in favor

of helping Frank "ARSAll. to effect the coup d'etat and then

some at any given monent.

arms for.

Ile told ne, "It!s that several Liberation groups

have private arsenals, and my arsenal is the sparcest."

laughed (surely he was talking about Pepe).

lle told me that

he had just finished a landing strip on his finca located

on the border wich l'icaragua, that "one of these day's" a C-46

would male a forced landing on the landing strip to test it.

I told him that it was yery dongerous to help frank, hecause

he could see through the aid and vould incapacitate

morally to

tale over Inter.

lle answered me that in that there

was no problem, "The United States would be the only ones

2

SECRET

---

## Page 51

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

so couli create a scanuad,

and our farty can easily convince

TELLE? ChaP se hai nethire to do rich

the cour.

Leslies,

are not going te give Frand "apsALl tine to rescr after

re 'effecis the cour d'etar."

le also invited ne to attend the larty's consecoration cele-

bration the folloring day.

nor speal to ne unfaverally of FIGlEPTS, Alchough by

his conversation

he indicated that

rIchErEs does not figure

in his plans.

I accidentally asled luan NUT? "adriz the reason why Dandel

was so sure of convincing TElLI"; luan told me that it was

because of the strong runors that there were that the wife

of TELL. the Anerican amhassador

"lived" with the ex-

widerer of the creasury (llacienda) in the Covernment of

ORLICH, who was a very important benber of thie National Lit

eration Party.

the following day I was at the Party's inaugural celchration®

ODUCER referred to the "group of Cubang" who were present

and who knew that the National liheration Party was a "haven"

that the tonal®

for anti-Communist fighters.

it the end Daniel came to give

• his creetings and lene gave me an embrace in front of.

everybody.

The same afternoon of the celebration (4:30 p.m. on 10 0c»

coher) as I was entering the offices of Juan

Through Cuillermo VARGAS I was able to find out that there

are arms caches in Costa Rica which are in the possession of

Marcial AGUILUZ, which were going to be sold to A-nulfo

ARIAS' peonie in Panama, hut that the man who was bringing

che soney from Panama (Luis NAVAS) had been arrested in

nonema sher he was en route to Costa Rich.

The ig

that

were

in Costa Rica had been bought in lionduras iron VILLEDA

Morales' people.

On I1 October in the evening, I had a farewell party at

home of Roberto MADRIZ.

in my honor from the National

Liberation people. Those attending were:

Andres LIPPA,

hail

SECRET

---

## Page 52

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

a Corters Pace to has to seated cora

(erars1a808's note:

rIsTlEr in next raragrant).

At shis party they presented ne with the Party Docurent which

raced ne an l'oncrary "erker

and frecial Executive #criser

to the roganization Consission

of the Party, given hy erder

of rene FIGUETES.

There I vas able te find

cut that pere.

was soing hack ee reviving his contacts with the lover echo

elous of the Party®

because creryone spole very tell of repe,

ane in a very hostile nanner en Daniel opuLlP, including

CAPFENTIER (trarslator's note: this name is spelled ClAP.-

anties margore shoe boothe

tho was a trusted friend of

So I arrived in Panama on 12 October 1906.

On 13 October in the afternoon I was nhle to see "arcos ROBLES.

lle told

me that he had spolen with luis CONTE Aguero and that

CONTE had asked him what would he the position of Panana if

they were to tale continent-wide steps in recard to Cuha,

and

Marcos had ansvered that Panma's position was the most

aggressive against CASTrO.

I gave Marcos the report I had on Arnulfo ARIAS and the r.rms

In Costa Rica and commented on the necessity that the Pres-

Idents of America discuss, in private and secretly, the Cuban

question.

Marcos ROBLES appears to be in an openly aggressivc

position

and told me that he would snoal: with the Presidents

of El Salvador and Guatemala to sec if they were presenting

@ thesis in common on Cuba.

He told me that the situation

In Guatemala.

if CASTRO survived, would he terrible, since

he wavered between a military coup and a Communist coup.

Marcos told me that the only possible stabilization of latin

America included the assassination of CASTRO.

He thanked me

for the

reports received and asked me to let

him know anything I might find out.

4o I arrived in Venezuela on 15 October 1966.

Edgar LEONI, acphew os the President, was waiting for me at

the Airport.

le told me that he would leve the followins

Sunday for Santo Domingo and chen for liani (he is here now).

He commented to me regarding the Party: There were two clear-

ly marked tendencies:

SECRET

---

## Page 53

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

a) That of PA= Calarraga, strongly socialist, arti

American, ard radical.

receives the: suprort

of his uncle, President LEC:I.

b)

That of corulo RETAlCOUs?, tersonified in Carlos

AndrEs PeE= (translator's

nore:

this name is PEREZ),

who was nore moderate and was not anti-lnerican.

The Party will he allost divided if fonzalo BARFIOS is

not put up as an interin

candidate, hut they fear the

arrival of the next clections.

On 18 Netober I net at 2 in the afternoon wich Rafael CALDERA.

We commented on the nosition of Chile and of FREI on Fidel

CASTRO and he promised me that in Decenher, when he goes to

Chile to talk with FREI, he vould try to convince hin to

take a more aggressive

position against CastrO

so that he

will be

on a level with

the christian Denocratic farties of

the Carihbean,

like his:

COPEY.

l'e is very optinistic about

the next clections.

I told hin

what I inew about the posi

tion of Chile,

that she had heen very soft against CASTRO

In snite of CASTRO's attacks.

He told me that he was convinced that FREI had spoken with

the Cuban regime about a possible including of Cuba in the

ons again,

but that afterwards FREI had repented; and it

ng for that reason that Fidel attacked him so much®

He told me that Enrinue HEPTAS had been to visit him in the

name of "all the exile movement",

to invite hin to a cele

bration in Miami.

That the only

thing that he was surprised

at was the "extraordinarily anti-Mierican" position of that

bay.

wag

I told him that Enrique MERTAS was a grent guy"che

but

very embittered and of course he represented chly

doctors in Miani.

That same day, at 4 in the afternoon

•I met with GECOSKO,

Inder-Secretary General of the Presidency, in Miraflores.

He groke to me very bitterly of the !,s, and of what they

had done in Santo Domingo.

He sold me that he had been in

the Dominican Republic al! during the time of the "inter-

vention".

He told me that Venezuela would adopt a strong position against

CASTRO in the conforence of Presidents.

That now CASTRO only

benefited the "gorillas"

of Argontina

and Urnzil and for that

reason nothing was being done against him. CASTRO was the

SECRET

---

## Page 54

14-00000

5.

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

$

justification for the existener of the gerillasa.

¡ reli hig that dietner hai distracted the ferees of Penoc-

rac! and lie tole ne:

"Tiat"e

Nat

they sar. t'e truth is

that they ¿en't want to do anytting."

I stater that the initiative against CASTRO corresponés to

Latin

America.

He told

he that that was in theory, but that

in practice the lla 5, was necdedo.

•(As can he seen, he is of the sane opinion as lAZ Calarraga.)

I departed congratulating President LEnI on his position

with respect to

the

Japanese Coverument

in its trade with

Cuba, and 1 asled hin to rale our desire of heing strongly

against CASTRO becone a realit!.

He told me that that sane day he would see the President:

he closed the ucetin? hy saying,

"P'on't worr!, ve are now

very tired of fidel, the other day we

hnd to sink a boat

loaded with munitions 'and Castroites."

That same night I was having drinks with Danile SaNso!,

Nicaraguan Ambassador to Venezuela.

new

Through hin I found out

some very curious things; there are three ambassadors in

Caracas who reccive $5,000.00 a month to üntify the Vene-

zuelan NICEPOL of all conmunications in code.

One of them

is the one from

Chile,

sho passes

all the secret correspondence

between CALDERA

and FREI into the hands of the Venezuelan

DIGEFOL®

On the following day I had a neeting with the "Jose Marty"

Civic Club.

Upon my arrival in Miami, on 20 Octoher, I had a telephone

in which

call from Sorthe Second Front

he told me that his friond (siel

SONZALEZ,

of the Escambrar

had a friend

infiltrated into the

ranks of Rolando MANSFERCER and that

he had heard the rumor that they

were going to roh me of the

armg that I had near West Palm Beach.

That they were trying

to find out the cract location.

That night lugenio CLAUDE

arrived from there (it is he who watches over the silent mo-

ors and the ruber rafts that we have on the far.

because

ve don't nave any arms), since he had a trial the 21st.

Yosterday, the 22nd, I went there (near Indiantown), to the

arm, to study sccurity measures with rosace r

the motors

ne the rafts and I found that on the only day CLAUDE has

they had stolen everything and they hind set fire

noethe mobile home and to the wood house where the motors

6

SECRET

---

## Page 55

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

and safes vere.

arriving here,

I notifies the police in to area and, so

che local relice and the ?2l.

cidn"t

anything ahour are face that the rolors tere stecial. Anyo

ay, you already know kiat "a!rene®

I an erring to hold

the bors back and to find out shere everything is now.

continue

that songster, to,

I believe, deals also in the rrostitution and drugs business.

Embraces,

Ignacio

SECRET

201-267437

---

## Page 56

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Miaed 22 de Octabre de 1966

L

---

## Page 57

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

i d!

(2)

..

---

## Page 58

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

• (3)

---

## Page 59

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4•

(4)

---

## Page 60

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(5)

---

## Page 61

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

do some i

---

## Page 62

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

25SSX0> 7031

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

201-267437

'21

DC/KH/C

3481

18 OCTORER 66

6 iшдв8

• по st

?

EL-T

O DESTROY OUTTA TO -

FROM: DIRECTOR

come :

UH/c

I RID COPY

SOS TO • THE

• WH•8, CI/GA, FE

" САННСАТОНЬ

SECRET

OATS AND THE FLEeS

19 19 03:7

CITE DIRECTOR

TOT MEXICO CITY INFO

144.736

TYPIC AMBIDDE

RET: NSX100 CITY 8860 (E4 17955)

RE PARA 4 RET, AMBIDDY/I CALL

S-TO RECEIVESA SUBSTDY

##: + 908-84986076

THOM NOFACT, WHICH HE CLAIMS IS DISBURSED TO FAMILIES OF AMMORID

Frie of if Dp to felt 88 day

CASUALTIES, THIS SUBSIDY WAS CUT LAST JULY, AND HE FAS BREN WARNED

IT MAY BE ELIMINATED IN THE FUTURE.

8. AMBIDDY/I HAS MENTIONED IN PAST HE LIKELY TARGET FOR

AS ASSINATION ATTEMPT BY CASTRO BUT DOUBT ALVAREZ REPORT IS ATTEMPT

BY AMBIDDY/1 TO REGAIN STATUS.

IND OF MESSAGE

CAIN./C/FI

c/va/c/cIc

VE/1

S/NB/2/CR&A

(drait)

Pitavie)

C/WH

BELEASINO OPPIGRA

BICRET

SERIEN

---

## Page 63

1400000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

CLASSIEY

PUTILE nO.

#-HUO TO FILE NO.

OILE DID BER. TO DEARES O

DESTROT

D $16.

AFIED MESSAGE!

SECRET

OPSE COPIES

1o.3.dsy/1

261-267437

REPROCUCTION

PROMISITED

DISSEM BY 53

LOVANCE COPY

ACTION

WH/e 8

I RID COPY

•6B0rD D0s8srse

FILE, VR, UM 8, CA 2, CALRROR, SORS, SILE 2, eNDA, EL,

SECRET ISBIAOZ CITE MEXICO CITY 3868

DIRECTOR INFO

IYPIC AMBIDDY

REF $

A.

5808

10472)

150G66=17955

B. DIRECTOR 41h3

1o ONLY ELEMENT WHICH WOULD EFFECIIVELY FAN FIRE OF

CURRENT ANTI-GOC PROPAGANDA IN MEXICO WOULD BE EXPOSURE OF 8

A• CUBAN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS DIRECTED AT MEXICO, OR,

B. COMPLETE DISREGARD FOR MEXICAN SOVEREIGNITY ON PART

OF CUBANS INVOLVED IN THIRD COUNTRY OPS.

"2o' IN LINE WITH REF B, STATION PLANNING:

A. IDENTIFY. VALVERDE AND COLLEAGUES AND TRY DETERMINE

:IF THEIR ACTIVITIES INVOLVE MEXICANS.

TRY TAPE STRONG ANTI-MEXICAN STATEMENIS HOPEFULLY MADE

BY VALVERDE AND FRIENDS DURING MEETING WITH DR. ALVAREZ.

3. PLAN HAVE FIRST MEETING WITH ALVEREZ 18 OCTOBER USING

LIEMBRACE TEAM FOR SURVEILLANCE MEETING SITE AND JAILING OF

ALVAREZ FOR SEVERAL DAYS. WILL EXPLORE WITH ALVAREZ HOW

VALVERDE COULD BE TRAPPED INTO MAKING STATEMENIS DETRINENTAL

TO MEXICO IN CONNECTION WITH STRONG ARM TYPE OPS AND HOW THESE STATE

• NP

SECRET

1298 - 42

CEC

DECL

---

## Page 64

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

PAGLE MEXICO CITY ESSESECRET

RESIS COULD SE RECORDEL. CLANDESTIDE PROTOS OF VALVERDE NOULO

SE TAKER AT SUSSEGUEDI RECTINGS. DEPENDING O! TAKE, TAPES AND

PICIOS COULD DE SENT MEXICAN OFFICIALS WHILE PART OF ISFO

LEAKED TO FOREIGN PRESS. LIEMSRACE WOULD NATURALLY SURVEIL

VALVERDE®S MOVEMENIS FOR PERIOD AFTER INITIAL MONITORED MEETING

WIIN ALVAREZ.

• PLEASE ADVISE STATUS AMBIDDY- I RELATIONSHIP WITH WOFACI.

REP A COULD POSSIBLY BE AÑSIDDY-I AITEMPI TO RESAIN STAIUS.

SECRET

BT

SECRET

DECLASSIFIED

RI/ AN

BI/MIS

*= CrooSe 05:

TA LA L1B2.96

Tr6e2e2003

Misedas pair trachy

7002 10 626

CREE: DEX700 SCT22 2/095

PEr

on sex 413

reseatt

---

## Page 65

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

11 October 1966

MORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: "303 Group" Policy Paper on AMWORLD

An attempt has been made by a WH/Cuba officer to trace a

"SOS Group" policy paper concerning the AlVORLD project. Head-

quarter's "303 Group" 11108, ANBIDDY-l's 201 file, and the retired

"Illes of the AMORLD project have been thoroughly searchdith

negative results.

---

## Page 66

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

CLAS8188

#-ДЕЕ ТО

PILE HIDD

18 ПО.

DIT. TO ANARCH D

BUSSIFIED MESSAGE R

SECRET

MIT BOVIFICO

28

D; 55

COPT

WHIc -8

O RID COPY

FU, VR, Wit-8, Do - 4: Do/st- 3, Crops FE

SECRET OSITOSZ CITE INWAVE 3469

INFO DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY

: 800865 12941

TYPIC AMBIDDY

10472

REF$

5828C/N0J704)5

DOCTOR (FNUS CAPOTE IS PROBABLY IDEN WITH DR. ROBERTO

E CAPOTE MIR WHO ARRIVED MEXICO CIRCA MARCH 66 UNDER WHO

SCHOLARSHIP• WAS MEDICAL DOCTOR IN ARMY MEDICAL CORPS AND

MEMBER DELEGAIION OF DOCTORS WHO TRAVELLED TO ALGERIA MAY 63.

FORMERL: MARRIED TO LILIANA NOY FLEITES.:

2o NO IDENTIFIADLE TRACES VALVERDE.

3o AMOT TRACES PENDING.

SECRET

ALVARez CoNTAcTed iN EARLY Sp BI DocToR CApoT.,

BI

LAO INTROduCOd ALVAREZ TO QUBIN ENTAL dEficie

---

## Page 67

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

MESSAGE IUNE

TOTAL SODIES:

SECRET

1. CARET:20€

•*: BH/C/CICS

818 + 2578

3

1 4-45

DIRECTOR

→ me • WHE CAZ, CA/PROP, CIL

1::?

CITE DIRECTOR

41793

ree?

TO MARICO CITY INTO: JAVE

TRIC ABIDDY

(IN 10492)* (BEING RELAYRD

Je IN ENTORT TAKE MAXIMUI ADVANTAGE CURRENT ANTI-GOC PROPAGANDA

ATIOSPHIRE MIXICO BUILT UP BY BICO GALAN AND LOPEZ DIAZ INCIDENTE,

ZADQUARTERS REQUESTS MEXICO CITY CONSIDER STRAPHENT OF CAPOTE

AND VALVIDE IN CAN CONFIRN RET STORY•

•DO PRIATUINARY HRADQUARTERS TRACES:

att

DOCTOR CAPOTS: PROBABLY IDENTIFIABLE DR. ROBERTO B. CAPOTE MIR, CURAN

TUDTING UNDER SPONSORSHIP WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (INO) IN MEXICO

CARS. 1966. MAIBER CUBAN MEDICAL MISSION TO ALGERIA - HAT 1963.

PREVIOUSLY DIRECTOR "CAMILO CIENFUEGOS" CLINIC AND SUNGEON. VALVIRDE!

POSSIBLY IDENTIFIABLE A) DR. RAUL VALVERDE ABRIL, CP MATER HAVANA -

FEBRUARY 1981, SUB-SECRETARE MINISTRY OF JESTICE, VISITED USSE

INCARLY IN 1932 VIA FRANCE - JUNE 1962.

VERSION,

SABOTAGS ACTIVITIES FOR GOC AS REFLECTED TORTING TIES €g

FRANCE, SECURITY DIVISION, UNREAD - FEBRUARY 198Z.

cont/

ATINA OFFICURS

*ENTICATIn

8-1

SECRET

aapat

TME. THAN THE ISSUING

---

## Page 68

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

0 1048

MLSSAGE FUNN

TOTAL CODIE!:

SECRET

6

## :

She SW

DIRECTOR

O RID COPY

•"**

ICLMANCATION

BATE AND THE PILEDS

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

41793

PAGE S70

7

B) DR. MARIANO VALVERDE MEDEL, DOCTOR MEMBER CP HAVANA - YEB 1961,

DIRECTOR OF HAVANA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL SCHOOL, ATTENDED WHO BEHINAR

U888 - APRIL 1964. COMUNIST PROFESSOR OF SURGERY HAVANA UNIVERSITY

JULY 196A. C DE. ARMANDO C. VALVERDE MEDEL; SUSPECT CONCUNIST

ARTILISA, CUBA - BEPTEMBER 1961. TRAVELED RAVANA/PRAGUE 18 JULY 1068

HAVANA 17 AUGUST 1962. CONHUNIST PHYSICIAN HEAD OF SP

AND MILITIA ARTEMISA.

30 ALVAREZ' FILE REFLECTS HE HAS SURGEON RAVANA UNTIL AUGUES

:1080 WHEN HE TRAVELED MEXICO. HE BECAME SECRETARY OF ORGANIZATION

OF FID. ASSESSED AS CALM, PRACTICAL, MORE POLISHED TRAN OTHER EXILES

BOS OFFICER PREVIOUSLY STATIONED MEXICO CITY RECALLS ALVAREZ HAD

US VISA SNATU ABOUT 1961 AND SHOULD HAVE EXTENSIVE FISA FTIE.

HOTE

MET

STING EYSAGE/1 AT AIRPORT JULY 1966 SFACCOADING

MEXICO CITY-7999. IN VIEW PROSPECTIVE SURVEILLANCE HYSAGES WHXL!

, STATION NIGHY AXTYCIPATE BINTLAR

MARICO ' PER

MEETING •

~ END OF MESSAGE

.. cont/

SECRET

"SPRODUET A BY ETHER THAN THE ISSUING

160219

#0P

---

## Page 69

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

O FILE R1

MESSAVE gUA

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

sat:

D FILE IN ES FILE WA

OnE: DIRECTOR

O RID COPY

TELABNIPEATION

SECRET.

(DATE AND TIAN PILED)

CITE DIRECTOR

41793

WI PAGE THREE

WE/C/Comment:*AMBIDDY/]. and Amaro ALVAREZ Tormo reported ALVAREL

contacted by Dr.

(inu) CAPOTE, Cuban in Mexico studying on WHO

scholarship.

CAPOTE introduced ALVAREZ to CUIS officer who used

DIme VALVERDE.

MEXICO CITY: = 7999:

LITEMPOS reported 18 July 1966 that HYSAGE 1

wet at airport by

Amaro ALVAREZ Tormo upon arrival Moxico.

HYSAGE-1 plans arrive Mexico City & October 1968.

Would appreciate

discreet surveillance.

C/E/C/CICS

WH/C/MO

WE/C/FI

i WH/C/CA/PA

WE/1/ Mexico

. WH/2/Panama

wa/?/hicaragua

P. Holts (phone)

TALIAM V. BIDE

Or C/WED

MELBABNO OFPICE®

BICRET

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPPICH H

LONE!

---

## Page 70

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

7cet 66

L

---

## Page 71

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 72

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

delebre

2222

-03

S1303;

38.

But! Guillot

P. O. Box DiA Coconut. Crove,

Sta 33 133

miami, Fla.

U. S= A.

"ARAVION CORREO AEREO ARMNI

---

## Page 73

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

DISPATCH

QLASSSZNICATIOR

chief of station, l'esico city

Chief, Il Division, Chief, JIlAyE

chisf of Station.

BURRECT

O OPERATIONAL/AMBIDDY -1

ACTION REGIMED - REFEREN»

REFERENCE!

PROCESSIG ACTION

UND FOR ENDEA

NO SHOCKS MaNIE

OURY QUALIFIES NESTE

CAM JUDGE MEDITE

Attached is a report by

of his

contact with AMBIDDY-I as mentioned in referenced cable.

Attachment, Mis

Raport,

Distribution:

COS Menico City w/att

Chief,

WH Division w/att

→ Chief, JINAVE watt

& Odbber 1960

REFERENCE TO

1 COPY

DIAPATON AVIAROL, ANO NUMBE,•

YINMA- 3667

GLASIFICATION

2010267437

GATE

'OCT $ 1960

M9G FLAI

L

---

## Page 74

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

On 2 October 1958, James D. ZABOT!! (P) not with AKBIDDY-1

and the lexico City representative of the MrR,

Ore Amaro L.

lie works at iaboratorios Promeco de Mexico.

do i, bop.

Telephone 45-62-48,

Doctor ALVAREZ told the following atory!

•nile who came out in August 1960 and has worked since de the

Mix representative in Mexico.

ile worked with the FRD in 1960-61

and has had contact from tine to time with Marloo City Station

officers since that time.

His last contact, so far as he knows,

une Andrew i. MCRION (P), His brother is Doctor Jose Ramon

232:

ALVAREZ Tormo, who was captured in Cuba in March 1965 and 1a

•ering nine yeare in Cabañas F'ison as a counter-revolutionary•

ALVAREZ bellevas his brother was workine as a NOFACT agent, but

Is not sure. Two other voctors, who are members of his family,

mere captured at about the sane

time. They are Doctor Fidencion

SANCHEZ Escots, serving thirty yeare in Cabañan, and Doctor

Admiberto SAAVEDRA Dias, serving twenty years in Principe Prison.

Early In September 1966, ALVAREZ received a telephone call

from « Doator (Inu) CAPOTE, a Cuban who is at the Public Health

School of Mexico on a scholarship from the dorld Health Organiza

tion.

His telephone number in Merico City is 35-39-64=

"CAPOTE

Identified hinself as having been a medical student in Havana

whon Doctor ALVAREZ was a resident surgeon at tha University

Hospital, and anked 1f ALVAKEZ remembered him.

ALVAREZ told him

thit he remembered hin (although he did rot) thinking that CAPOTE

robably wanted to contact him to nake arrangenente to defect.

ILVAREZ accepted an Invitation to have dinner with CAPOTE an

met him the sane evening.

They went to a French restaurant with

ood food, good wine.

and good atmosphere, and CAPOTI paid the

check.

ALVARE% said that when they mat,

he vaguely remembered

the"lace of CAPOTE as one of his former students but could remem

ber nothing more about him.

Aiser Initial anall talk at Sinner, ALVAre asked da chare

wore anything ha could do to help CAPOTE to defect, as loctor

Alarico FERNANDEZ had recently done (another Cuban doctor on a

WHO scholarshis in Mexico).

CAPOTE replied that he was not in.

torastad in dafooting, he was very happy in Cuba, Socialiam 1e

tonderful, @to..

Me went on to say that he wanted to talk with

ALVAREZ In an attenut to help him out with a personal natter.

CAPUTE suld ho know the brother of ALVAREZ and had sone friende

to got him out of prison and out of Cuba.

nanth proclauder, was soning to Mexleo ahorely, and men ho"

SECRET

CS COPY

201-267437

---

## Page 75

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

arrived CApore sald he would call ALVAREZ and try to armango

for his to talk with the person.

ALVARIZ agreed, thinking

CaPUId was referring to the Vice-inistor of lealth in Cuba,

whos ln knew was scheduled to trarsit Yesico soon thereafter

«notti to a united Nationa seeting

in dew York,

I've nont contact was on Thursday, 29 Septamber 1966, at

1900 curs, when CAPOTE suddenly appeared uithout prior notice

"t tis Laboratory where ALVAREZ was working and told him the

ma tay in town and could see him innediately, but they rould

ave to 50 at once and go traight to his.

car. Yid CAPOTE dirested him by a round-bout resto

They uned ALVAREZ®

mumber of false turns, to a rastaurant the name and address of

which lVAREz did not

18 and Locate 1f 1I necessary®

remember, but said he could go back to

Je fat three floore.

The place has serving areas on

They

went to the third floor, whieh was

wed with all groups of table separated from each other

by outh floor space,,

ostensibly dance floor,

ALVAREZ sald he

Instinctively recognized the place as controlled. One or the

pop, were seated at each of the groups of tables and after a

while ke malized that thay ware there for survelllande. He and

CAPOT tat down at a table which CAPOTE chose.

and a few minutes

later, She of the Individuals who had been sitting alone got sp

and Calè over to join them.

te made.

No lat down and introduced himself to ALVAREZ as "VALVERDE"..

no pretense of boing another doctor or of using any

sover Stery, but identifieù Minalf as a Cuban Intelligence

018 lost who

might be able to help ALVAREZ to set his brother ra

10a024.

along with his other two relatives.

VALVERDE said that

the

Valry santed to do so,

tney could go back to Cuba together

SETt

day, hia brother and the other two would be released

tho

day

and would be put on themat flight back to Mexico.

ALVA

told him to slow down, that he had no Intentin of going

did no know and who might ba playing any kind of a ganes

Cuba with anybody, much less a perfeet stranges wrom ne

VAn for said he was a wise man to chack and be cure re what he

mar

Goshi, and handed him a letter from a fonale cousin, the 1:

•ingH Communist still in Cuba.

She toid ALVAREZ he was shirke

Alà duty to his family 18 ho aid not halp hia biother and

•aLVes to get out of prison, and at the same time to help

ghanilitate him lt with his

own country.

She endud with a note

dy 95 that the bearer of the Intter was a person of absolute

entiches wich authority to deal with ALVARCz and make commitment

on thi natter.

SECRET,

---

## Page 76

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

- I-

UVArEz read the letter and put it in his pocket, telling

VALVERDE that this still did not identify him nor did ft tell

him any more about what they wanted from him.

VALVERDE said

they wanted only to help ALVARiL and hia relatives and vara

trying to make it possible for his to do sunethinz the could

earn their release.

VALVERDE then showed him a lotter of intro

duction written on Cuban Ministry of the Interior official

stationery and signed by Ramiro VALDEl,. which stated that "sesor

VALVERDE" was an official of the Yinistry who was cravelling

abroad on a special mission and should be assisted by all Cuban

offiolal missions and friendly governmenta.

CALVAREZ saied that

he left the meeting firat, then waited around outside until he

BAN CAPOTE and VALVERDE leave in a car with diplomatio tago.

#Ithough he did not get the license numbers.

LONE.

After ALVAREZ rend the letter and save it back, VALVERDE

told him, "Look sere now, be sure va can take care of your

brother, but we don't want money.

In other cases.

okay, Na'11

but that's not what we

want. from you."

If he was

threatening his brother unless ALVAREZ gave him information, he

would say no.

"I will have the pain of whatever happens to my

brother

but you have the responsibility for it becaune: he is

yeur prisoner.

Nothing I can do will control what happens to

Aw. Only you can control that."

He said he would not collaborate

ruth them.

VALVERDE replied: that this was similar te the response

they unually got fron the so-called denoratic types, but *hat

ALVAREd was going too fast and refusing before he knew the situa

tlon. He described ALVAREZ as playing Don Quixote and tilting

at windmille.

He suld the Cuban situation would ultimataly be

molved on the intamational level and the question of which side

will come out on top would be resolved at that point by the big

povers and nothing they (VALVERDE and ALVAREZ) did at their

level was going to have any seal effect on tha outcons.

Therefore,

there was no reason they could not work together on something that

ins In their common Interests and to their mutual advantage.

VALVERDE then said he would be completely frank with ALVARET

and told hin they knew they had only one rect enany in tha worid,

Snoluding POPRIME, and that was WOFACT. He oald they slio knew

WOTACT was no longer interested In exile organizations, only

Individual exiles with potential influence for tha future.

maid they. knew abost the training camps on Central Amorica with

about 200 men,

but they were not worried about theme

They already

have infiltrations into then, and if they bacons troublesome, the

Cubans can bring suffiolent pressure againet them and have then

aloned down by propasanda fron Radio lavana, through Ioral newman,

SECRET

---

## Page 77

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

opposition political parties, the united rations, and other

Internatural pressure.

VALVERDE Sa'd they, also, were interested

in indivial men, not in groupo..

In facto

they were interested

primarily in one man, the only one uho sight be able to organise

eroupe suit on the inside as vell as che outside, uno also

the baellios of sofAci.

nas

"de rave his in our signes," ho sald,

mking a sent of !

sarkanan sightins a rifle.

"That can 1s

AMBIDDI-MA

All Me need

is the infornation about him and the

moans so tet him out of the pieture, nothing inore."

mus sald he was only a propaganda man who followed dinee.

one he lnceived fron the Mir; knew nothing about military matters

and had nu direet contact with nor knowledre of AlSIDDY-1°

routine of movements.

Therefore,'he could not give them any in

formation no any value to them, even 1f he were willing to sell

out AHHIlly l, which he would not do.

VALVERDE sald that was

Okay, that was about what they expected hin firat raply to be,.

but thay and time to wait for him to think it over.

VALVERDE

•aId le onild walt until Saturiay, & October 1966

for another

metina fition the night of Thursday, 29 September 1986).

CAPOTY broke in at this point and sald they knew that ALVAREX

envole A wrent denl through latin Anarica in his buminess and

would be

in a position to pick up information that they might be

inta

sate in.

This could perhape be enough to keep their

attention while he thought over and made up his mind on their offer.

Fer ample, they had a nood for nore and better quality information

•n Guntan la, and If he wanted to work on that for a short while.

thay misht be mble to work out sonething with hin.

VALVERDE Inter

Jooted a Comment than that this was junping the gun and might fat

then off sin nomithing far away from Cuba, AMBIDDY-1 and the

Palatives OY ALVAREZ, which vere the main consideratione.

He

nuggented diain that they sleep on it and they could talk again.

He sald if ALVArEZ agreed to cooparate with them, he would put

adman Fairch with one of kin friends who uas staying in Merico.

and they. Could take eare of the detalls at that and, while he,

VALVERDE, tin taking care of the necessary approvale and overall

agreemants back in Cuba, to which he had to réturn in a few days.

ALVAREZ. "Aid he had no objection to meeting and talking again, but

he was awe he would lot be changing nin mind. VAlVErDe said agin

that was all right and that they could wait.

ALVAREt left the merting and tried to contact AMBIDDY-1

Immediasalys

He could not not chrough to Mianf until the following

gone that same day to Nicaragull.

ALVAREZ caught the next flight

So NientAnte en Saturday, 1 Deteber 195e, to Gendar WItH AMDIDIYOS•

SECRET,

---

## Page 78

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

Defore leaving, on Friday night,

he called CAPOrE and told him,

truthfully, that a sioter vas soing to vialt the neat day and

Sunday, and he and his wife vere going to be tied up all meekend

taking her sightseetna. inoluding being out of the elty saturday

said Monday was fine and he would contact ALVAREZ to make an

appointment.

ALVAREZ would to back

make the meeting on Monday when they contact him.

tiam to elain he could sive nothing useful about AMBIDDY-1

and would not do so in any event, but might nibble at the guatem

mala propouition in return for promies of better treatsent for

Nie brother. If worACt wishes to monitor this operation, they

my contact ALVAREZ In Mexico City as 'a friend of Carlos with a

messag! from hin."

AMBIDDY»1 direoted ALVAREZ to cooperate within

son with the WOTACT contact if one were made, such as reporting

ovonto, passing deception uaterial, etc., so song as it van under

stood that control of the operation will not be turned ovr.

•wept to the extent that WOFACT and MRR Interests and Iden con-

time paralial.

SECRET

---

## Page 79

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

CLASSIP

=-nER 10 pie no. 7 36:1-262437

BIs '967, 10 Marco D.

OASTBOY

CUASSISLES MESSAGE

SECRET

s8012

36

BEPROCIET ON PROHIBITE

Last filed (rut

dissoum23?

ACTA6m

WHIC&

BRID COPY

HE, UR, WH8, Dote DOlH3,

+ 010es

SE CHET ESIGISZ CITE

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR A JINAVE

TYPIC ANSIDDY

• To AMBIDDY-I AND MEXICO CITY REFRESSHTATIVE DOCTOR AMAR: 10492

E• CAL VAREZ) I CAMO WERE

1 OCT WIERE MET. WITM STATION

OUTSIDE C/OL

COS WAS AT SANE SOCIAL AFFAIR BUT

AVOIDED CONTACT. NEXT DAY AMBIDDY AND ALVAREZ AGAIN VISITED

ZABOTH TO INFORM KIM REASON FOR ALVAREZ, PRESENCEL

AL VAREZ

CONTACTED IN EARLY SEP BY DOCTOR (FNU) CAPUTE, CUBAN IN MEXICO

STUDYING ON WHO SCHOLARSHIP. IN SUBSEQUENT MEETING CAPOTE

INTRODUCED ALVAREZ TO CUBAN INTEL OFFICEA SUPPOSEDLY FROM HAVANA

WHO USED NAME VALVERDE. VALVERDE ASKED ALVAREZ TO TELL CUIS HOW

TO GET TO AMBIDDY IN RETURN FOR RELEASE FROM CUBAN PRISONS GV

ALVAREZ BROTHER AND TWO COUSINS, CLEAN INDICATION IHAT CUIS

ATTEMPT ING ASSASSINATE AMBIDDY. CAPOTE ALSO ATTEMPTED LAY ON

FINFO REPORTING REQUIREMENIS ESPECIALLY INFO ON GUATEMALAN

SITUTION. ALVAREZ REFÜSED BUT VALUSADE ASKED HIM THINK MATTERS

OVER, NOT ACT HASTILY.

! "T

ALVAREZ PHONED MIAMI, LEARNED A93 IDDY

FLEW

HERE TO RELATE ABOVE STORY.

AL VANE& RETURNED MEXICO 2

OCT

SECRET

792-18

AMRI

201-267437

50c6:6

---

## Page 80

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

PALE 2

ND ALLO BEET WITH PALSERE LAL! NEAT DAY

3. VALVERDE SAID IF ALVAREZIU@LL DUPLAY ALONG LE WOULD

PUI HIS IN TOUCH WITH ANOTHEH CUIS OFFICER RESIDOING MEXICO.

4. ALVAREZ AND AMBIDDY WILLING ALLON WOFACT HAND IN OP. IF

KOS APPROVES AND MEXI DESIRES GO AHEAD, NEED ONLY CONTACT ALVAREL

AT PHONE 45-6E-49 IDENTIFYING CALLER AS "UN AMIGO DE CANLOS EN

SANAGUA. "

•SO IIME DID. HOT ALLOW FOR PROPER DEBRIEFING ALVAREZ LOCALLY.

HAVE NO DESCRIPTION VALVERDE. POUCHING DETAILS 5 OCT.

SECRET

SECRET

Caig 24.918

MArsch" 50920

wi1: 47767

NẠNA.

0:03. 9. 065012 Char4741241

Well der wese cipe espeare the floor o

260810v33

MEXICO-CILA IMO OREGA A07

320a 21 221015 Chreea

2°741

PASS

The taw say pera

cole one caser

130T

7775

8yocon40-370"

he times Ch

• 222122713

L

---

## Page 81

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

1950p31936

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART / - BIOGRAPMICAL IMFORNATION

INSTRUCTIONS:

SECTION !

AmD PAY SICAL DATA

Ari EL

entine.

LANGUAGE DAI ACHIPY

knuel Fontine Luca

TELECOOLS. LEGAL CHANCE IN

Tinto 1100, 18a80s 108 at place o! Me,

Maralo - I'a houn under t'is name by sy rebutives.

Izrucio - This is my art amunist underground name, in Cuba

SO. DATE BE IAT

'firen" 120v. de (osagiey, CUtri.

Alone

COUNT nIcOnD (Cort.

Luring Batists regine I had been arrested tuice,

ince with (olo ventees

Move and the other one with Colo Curatuli.

bin time: I uno seLene

beause at that time I hurd sume Influent friends in the Government.

On May 2, 1961, I was captured in the Cienaza de Zapata by Castro

militia men, because I was the Civil Leader of the Bay of Pig Invasion,

Iter that I speat two yurs in jail and I wis retarded on Lecembe

I, 1962 when the ramon asked by lustro was puid by the United Strate

(overment.

DESCRIPTION. (UBO

39-395

6-250 EN: 282

280

COLOR PY НАН

C9677

OF CIET

jo TERTA

r. contring

7. 04860

erican.

• SCARS AND MANNE OR OTHER DISTIAGUISP TO FEAPUNRE

A scar un lif lureheal.

NO MENEHAL APPEANE

@. PROMINEAT «SATURES

P. O'URA SOR#FIPViNG FRATUREA

ATTACH

HAMPLAN ON A NATURR AND H

АДиВІТиМО:

9Rа 1050

##

#: 9214-490-8780461

i,1...

DATED PROTHORAM AND

---

## Page 82

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

•

SECTICE II

8а an #8+e 10.)

ALBERT B1S1227ON.C

1D- DERMANENS ADDIZO NeCO

1. 207349

ariy Flucica 33138. (Omas with morgage)

GIVE HANt. DATE, CITY

AND DUNNIN AF

CENTIFICATE GRANTED

" it flint reian Countries, exce, iocio, us, incontina, Chile, Haiti

Pere, ¿ста hoi, тосу у ілліна тіню бних (т, by o

ion wity Pursess Liberation of is

SECTION

OCCUPATIONAL AND FIANCIAL DATA

I. PRESHAT OCCUPATION

Machin, jer dic deportes of ass

"'"'Lecical Doctors

IВ. ВАБАНУ (РОР ВОПИВ,

ID. FINANCIÃL STATUS (Bernindo, bead deposi

seenpition and property)

I-Faniliary subsidt of the MAR of about 900 dollars

2°$3000.00 in safe deposät Bank account

3-$8000.00 in safe deposit Bank account (See atachement. # 3)

SECTION IV

ORGAMIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

IN RELIGIOUS ONGANILATIONS

10 To "ación (atslics 'niveritaria" (athelic Universitary Association

PRESENT ANS PAST MIMBERSHIP IN PHOFESSIONNL AND SOCIAL DIGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL APFILIATIONS

MoRoRe

Revolutionary Recovery Abrenent.- Generil Secretarys.

SECTION V

EDUCATIONAL DAYA

SCHOOLS

• 1A

DATRS ATTENED

WAR AND LOCATION OF BEHOOL

nana ghen Cuba

olegio Baron,

Uriversity of Havana

ELementary Schoal

Hahy School

Medicine

1938

1944

1949

F®

19444

1949

1957

DEGREE

#ECEIvED

High School

Medical Doctor

LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

READ

COMPETENCE

WHITE

MO

UNDENSTAND

false below

I enduade

in whieh yew

any desroo of competence. I

Spanish

YEs

dome

L

---

## Page 83

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECTIUM FI

INDICATE

ANY MR88:H6.

TISE DATES.

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

INCLUDING PITLES DE DOCAS OR ARTICLES, ALSO MANES OF FUILIINENS NEE PIMIC

CONUNISHDO SO? PARA CUE.DO? 1959 -Folleto del Bure de Infornacion y propaganda Oba

Agrupacion Catolica Universitaria Havana®

IRAICION• ¡GRITAN 20,000 TUBAS CUBALAS: 1960- LIbro Impreso en el Editorial Jus Merle

(Continued& Atachement A 2)

SPECIAL SAILLS.

8#1LSYIE8, HOBBIES SUCH AS MADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY. ETC.

thatograpty, Tao ian Fish, Coin collectar

SECTION VIA

MILITARY SERVICE

But thei

COUR TRY

UMIT

8 8838

HANg

BUTY®

Ссева

1958

1959

10. 6,

ebed. Avar

lato Lt.

Fresisian and Civil Cra

Слева

1959

1959

Rebel Anny

let Lt.

Re erupicin nefere

"IDENTIFYING COUNTEY. INDICATE WERE SERVICE PERFORMED.

DECORATIONS.

WHEN AND UNY DISCHARGED.

*VE DITAILS 8# WA#

#* I SONER.

Wham I was a member of the Cuban Rebeld Army,, worked in the Occidental Part of Oriente

province, sha Man zant Llo, Campechuela, Niquero, Bayamo, Jiguand Contramestro, Bairo y Yarao

I present y renouncing letter in Octuber 1958, accusing the Goverment to be ln the handa

•* Communiams

I soceive the trainning of caderet in a special zone of Canal Zone in Panama, te be Infil

trated in Cuba In 1961 (See atachement # 4)

SECTION WISE

EMPLOTHENT HISTORT

NOTE:

INDICATE CIRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST.

INCLUDE ANY CEMENT SPEOFIST.

INCLUSIVE DATES (PEST-FON

1953-1954

.

EAsE OvER

MedaLf. ADORES!

16.

Centro de Estudios

TYPE oF wOK Proffenon

-Banarrate M 69 Havane Cubia

*• SALARY OR EARNINGS

REASON FOR LEAvING

Of Motology

$ 300.00

pee nona

INCLUSIVE DATES (PrOR-25

D.

EMPLOYER

19340192

Santra de FeMa

*. BALARY OR EARNINGS

=• ADDRESS

Banarrate # 64 Havana Cubn

!. REASON FOR LEAVING

Physfology andchoudstry

• $600.00

DO INCLUSIVE DATES (Fren-Tojo.

IMPLOYEN

P** month

20

196-1931

Centre de

ТУРВ З8 ВОЯ%

SALARY OR

EARNINGS

Directer and

PACE USE DARE Pan

$900•20

L* month.

INPL OvER

1907 - 190€

Honktal Infantal

TYPE OF HOMI

SALARY ON BANNINGS

O i ADORESH

Banarrate A64 Havana Maki

to REASON FOR LEAVINA

The mongolist mistioti

Univernidad. de la Habana.

##ARON

Ban dant frisent

127.00

Pie minôh

#. INCLUDIVE DATES (Eremo

•• EMPLOVER

19010

DoCharter Murthnen

505

BALARY Of

CARMINOS

Trentment of Insulin 1.600 a

8, ADORES!

"San. Jani

Cantor e Enternededen Mantales de Dies"

REACON fOR LEAVING

The mr againat Eatiota Diotatorahis

---

## Page 84

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

BATE, POACE AND SEASON IDE

MARITAL STATUS

"SEPARATED

SEPAMATIONS, DEUCACES BE SALIENTS

DETORCE

AARLALED

WIFE

BAYE

4884984

INCLUDING ANNULMENTS.

USE SHEET SON FORMER WIFE

DININO DATA MEQUINID DELON FON ALL PREVIOUS MANDIAGES.

& MAMA OF SPOUSE

Alélaida

(middle)

Fadion.

1. DAVE

рем. ( 3,

2064

- Peachanage,

aragua, Nicaragua.

so. Narch 25,

OF BIRTH

, 1937

' ayaguajaso Las Villas, Cuba.

50-пg95a)"" Ar вiRт

2D. NUOSEQUENT CITUZENSHIPS

10. PRESENT RESIDENCE (CARY

eldence, T decealeay

1270 NoLo S5tr Sto, Siani, Flas 33138.

SECTION &

CHILDREN

HUSBAND

FULL NAME

54 50t

BITI

PLACE OF BIRTH

Roger Rajas Padren

Polared Nojas Padron

Adelaida Mo Aetime

1957

1958

1965

La Habana, (not

Le Habana, Cuba.

Miami, Fla.

HATIORALITY AT DIRTA"

Cuban

Cubaro

BUSCOUNT CITATEN

mr eMILo (adentaly child

addresas

SECTION XI

1. PluMet F. Artine Fernández

4H, YEAR OF BI#TH

2 Donstr

40. 1

0, OCCUFAMO

Co For

FATHER

AD. FLAGE OF BIRPH

Man, anoda, Asturias, Spain," Spanish AT BIRTH

Spanishe

09. PRESENT REBIDENCE

uba.

SECTION BII

MOTHER

'"'ELLUS" L. Bussa Beaufard!n

00. YEAN EF BIRTNDO, FLACE OF BIRTH

CAucas, Las Villilde

GIT |2E+

APCCUFATIDI

mannelat

ивою

TOTY WATTONALITY A

Cubars

---

## Page 85

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECTIOR A111

BASTELES dID SISTERS

PaoLE $=.

FATIEHALATO BE

SECTION XAV

RELATIVES, ACQUAIUTANCES AND COMPACTS

S8. MAN: OF RELATIVES IN ANT COVERINENT SERVICE: INDICATE NAME OB COVERINENTS ANO SOBITIONS MELO.

Mine

TRIENOS, CONRESPONOENTS IN U.S. (laplain vetafterTe)

Inlativoss One Cousin-Dra. Edita Bunsa Mne Beath • 14734 Erwin StelpedoVan Nrys Callfern!

One Cousin Jose Artine ,917-C Louise Sto Giendale Califernia

no counting sena l don't koo the stars. (on ateho dra, st

All my cousine are euben refugie.

•. NAMES.

ALIASES, TELECÕOES AND MELATIONSHIA OF ALL PERSONS KNOTS TO DE CONNECTED IN ANY HAY MIT ANY INTEGLIGENCE

by ronson of my works] know personally the top officers of the Intelligence enrvices

tha Lat ramerican Countries in the Caribean ArumoBut I only has relation hin in.

SECTION

PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

(Sed atachement 1 6

LIBT GLOBE ASBOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS. OR GROUPS

Groupe:

Moviniente de Racuperacion Revolucionaria (MAR)

Agrupacion Catolica Universitaria.

(Sno Atachement 4 7)

sea;

MISCELLANEOUS

ĐAT®

#uptenber 35 1806

---

## Page 86

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 87

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Atachement. 12

IPEARIO DEL MRoRa Underground for distribution in Cubao Merdeo 1960.

Rgunton sesseta del INBA Underground for distribution 1n Cuba Mami Fle ISA, 1960

MACHAS PE GUERRA Y CANTOS DE PRESIDIO 1963. Jook of poems."La Noticia Printers" Mani Fla.USA

COMPAPESCENÇIA PEL DR ARTIME ANTE LA AeReERes 1964, Papolot of ono conferenci "Editortel Comar"-

Mani. FlaoUSA

Pentor de meditasten, 1965. Pamphlet •"Quality Offset Printers" Minal Fla, Uld,3

Impublished bookn in preparation

"IMENTO ISLEÑO"" Book of poems to Latin-Americans

'BE MARIS A ROSTON A TRAVES DE CUBA" Rostunian analiain of the eubun trouble.

To the latin american students

"TIERRA ABAJO" Book of modern starles about the cuhan low olms today, under

the corsinist sugime.

From 1995 to 1958 I was the Directos of the offcial magazino of the "Agrupacion Gatolica

Unfvereltarials ESTO-VIR and a'member of the Board of Editore of the *BURO DE INFORMA

CION Y PROPAGANDA" of the "Agrupacion Catolica Universitarial Havana , Cubaol wrote all

the oditoriale of ESTO-VIR and three pasphilari: of the "Buro de Inforsacian y Propaganda".

The titles of the pamphlets were: "SEPA DEFENDER SU FE" greligious aspecte.

At thio timo a suplement of "'Dharle de la Harina" was publiched by nes "gue es le Gir

I don't remenber the dates because everything de In Cuba today.

In December 1959 I publiahed In the Havana nompaper "Avanco» my soncunca latterato the

Cantre Regime.

During the Bay of P1g Invasion, was publiahed in Mand "Me testamente palatter ulth my

pelltisal Ideals.

Fron April 1963 I Degan to uroto the editestalo of ININTa Iri Alland Fla,UBA and lator 1n

Contrea Amerien

---

## Page 88

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(2)

BASTA YAL

UNIDAD PARARE LA NUERTE

GUERRA TOFAS

UNTRAD LEN CUBA

ANTIES PE UN A%O

Isidente

RE NEVO EN EL COMBATE,

HIGHENATE POSTUMO AR PRESTRENT ALICO

Me erre on extrentano

MENSHE DE CRATITUR

•

32 MR ABRT%

MA MIATA SCCTALISTA

LA VERDAR RANICO

PIARIO DE UN DEMAGOGO RAPICAL DE IZOUTERRA

DIARIO DE UN PEMACOCO RADICAL DE DERECHA ®

CONEESIONES DE UN CORILLA

CHARIA EN EZ. POYN TONN

GONFESIONES DE UN AGENTE RUSO EN CUBA.

#

DIALOCO ENLER INSTERAR

LA CASTA DEL CHE A RAUE

MOTE LINE HAVANA M925

LA CATTA QUE NO SE FORENS

COSTA RITAL APASIONAMIENTO Y DEMOCRACIA"

CORRESPONDENGIA HABANA MARCH

Apr11 20 1963

May 73 1963

June & 1963

June 22 1963

July 6 1963

July 20 1963

Auguet 16 1969

november 17 1963

December 17 1963

Disch 27 1963

Jana 1 1969

Aps11 13 1969

June 1 1965

June 1 1963

June 15 1963

Jady & 1963

July 20 1965

August 15 1966

Septamber & 1963

September 15 1966

Cetober & 1963

October 20 1965

November 10 1965

December 10 1965

December 25 1965

.. Decembez 25 1965

& namod in IA0t "CHE DAY SE PIC" by Haynes Juhnson (MelloNerton & Company Ind. New Yerk

UBA) 1964 boonuse my name was uned,but I am not ngrue with some idone of the beake

L

---

## Page 89

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

ALacherone 1l 2

*One house in Mad Fla, tial La 1270 ME 85 sto idand Fla 331380l an paying a mergage

of 2 years.

5-000 bouse 1a Binoffleldo (the plece In utiles I has the mepons) AlCATaçu.

6-Ono BulIdonis Carterpillas D-Y in Bluefilelds, NicaragunsFer Sale.

7-Ono Bulldozer Carterplllar DA 1n Mani Fla. USA for sale.

8-One barge In Part Laudania, Florida, LiSto for salo

I One Chevrolet 1966 In MianloFluo! am paying the morgage.

10 Cno Chevrolet 1965 In Mand Fleol an paying the morgage.

11-no Chevrolet truck 1965 In Mani Flael an paying the morgage

12 One educational polley in the nine of my daughter of $2000,00 uith the EQUITABLE

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

19 One Lite Palley of 83000.00 in the EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, the benofledary

de my udfue

14 One 11t0 Polley ol $2000.00 in the EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, the benefielamy

10 my wife.

---

## Page 90

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

AnchoRant 1 4

1 us the Civil Chiet of Bay of Pig Invasion in 196101 rocesv enme Infantry trainingo

I roceive a Headquarter training da Mand Fla, la 1001, la order to act fron Consal America

to Cubao

ben I us captured in the sampo of Clenaga de Zapull Che, aftos the Invuston, I ma conduced

to HavanseI was capturod in May 2 196l.

& poo soolated do the next jellos

Hospital Naval de la Habana.

Castille del Principe

Isla de Pinose

They try to forced me to mitte one accusation agalnit the United states about the Imasion.

They try to ferced me to pin the pane of the anti Cantso underground leaders of resistaice

---

## Page 91

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

I has relationship ith all the delegates of the Malalla la the United States The princi

pake ares

Brazene Antente Heater, -ow Yeak

DRe MAnuel Hasnander Puente Hashingten Dof.

De Alberto Hermande Arkansas

Deo Ineter Carrio Caballero Collfernia

Dio Sabarto Proto-kantucty

Thie le not a cloned solatter ship emept ulth the three firet of the linte

---

## Page 92

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

cloned man of the word ulth Corsal Ourtave Moutsel,ol Hearaga Security Satvice (The

Chief) and with Anyus Aeres Vogs, socond de comand of the Innigration Dspartament of 1-

carage

Man me talk by tolophone, I una the naMes "IGNAGIC Coneral Martial une the same a

BROSIO% and Mayor Peror une the nana "GERLAIMO"•

---

## Page 93

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 94

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

rile

Artime

---

## Page 95

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

18 SEP 1966

MEMORANDO FOR!

SUBJECT:

Manuel ARTIE Buera

attached for your inforuntson in a copy of a memorandm

for the record of a convermation between Manuel Artime Duena

and Mr

Deputy Chies, Mi/Cuba, on

10 Beptember 1988. During thie converantion Astine sacousta

what ho purport to be the hichlights of a conversation "1ea

ar. W11l1an Bowdler on & Soptember.. You may want to call

this memoradum to 1r. Bordler's attention.... 18 a memorandm

* I. Boudler' converantion with Artine 1a miiable no

mold approstate receiving = copy•

SIGNED

SECRET,

---

## Page 96

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

13 September 1966

MSHORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with Manuel Artime, f. September 1966

The writer had a one-hour conversation with Manuel

Artime on 10 September 1966 during witc! Artime recounted

what he purported to be the highlights of a conversation

ho had with Mr. William Bowdler at Bowdler's White House

office on the afternoon of 9 September.

Artime said he was told by Mr. Bowdler that he

whould realize that his appointment with him, Inasmuch as

it was being held in his White House office, had been

cleared with and bad the approval of the President.

Bowdler said he wanted to make two points complotely clear

to him.

There was no present plan or projected

Planning by the U.S. for military action against

Cuba•

D.

There was a possibility that the U.S.

Government might re-examine the Cuban situation

In the next few months and that he was intorested

In getting Artime's views on the present situation

no well as comments and/or suggestions covering

the future.

Artime sald he told Bowdler that the morale of the

Cuban

exiles and of the people in Cuba was at its lowest ebb.

He said not alonc Castro's opponents but Castro himsalf

through his own sources knew that the only significant

activity belug conducted against his regime at the present

tlue was propagarda radio broadcasts beamod into the is.and

und these were having no effect on the stability of the

castro regime.

The people in Cuhe and opposed to Castro

nro now living in a complete state ci apashy. because they

moe no hope that anything will be dore to troe them from

Communisn®

SECRET

GHOU!

Exchdad tree estenslic

---

## Page 97

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

-2-

Artime said he volunteered his services as a

mIlitary man in any capacity in which he could possibly

Berve.

He said he spoke

in terms of hit-and-rud and

sabotage raids at several simultaneous points on the

island the purpose of which would be to:

Raise the morale and internal

resistance spirit of the people on the

1sland.

Lead to further economic difficulties

by forcing the government to recall to active

military service,

to man coastal defenses, etc.

military and militia types now working on sugar,

other agricuitural.and industrial production.

Force Castro to maintal his military

establishments in a constant state of alert

thereby creating further financial problems as

well as possible morale problems within the

m1l1tary establishment.

Ile enphasized that these "raids" could be done without

Increasing the budget or taxes.

They could be carried

out by Cubans using equipment and material presently

available to the U.S. Government.

He said Bowdler asked him for his suggestions as

to what could be done in the way of military action aginat

Cuba and he replied that the U.S. Government with its juge.

milltary establishment and experience was much better

qualified than he to make suggestions.

Other topics covered were Castro's verbal attacke

mainst President Fret of Chile and the Alliance for Progress.

7.

Artime said he told Bowdler he was of course very

concerned about future planningif any concerning Cuba as

ho had a wife and family to support and should really

seriously reorganize and reorient his personal life 11

there vere no prospects of some action in the futuro and of

his participation therein.

He said Bowdler asked him 1f he

had any financtal problens and he assured him he dia not have

nt preseut but souid have in the future. He claimed Bowdler

SECRET

---

## Page 98

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

told him to contact him if he did encounter any financial

problems.

He also said that Boudler assured him that be

would have sone idea within the nent one-to months whether

there was going to be a re-examination of the U.s. posstion

and polley towards Cuba and that he would let Artime know

ne soon as ho had any information.

Bondler took Artime'a

phone number and address in Miant and gave Artime his office

telephone number.. Artase said be plans to phone Bowdler 1u

#bout a month to say hello and ask him if there is any news.

Wi/cuba

SECRET,

---

## Page 99

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

CONFDESTLLL

THE NITE HOUSE

WHAMSGTON

MEXORANUX OF CONVERSATION

September 9, 1906

5:30 p. 13.

SUBJECI: Manuel Artime - leader of the Bay of Pize espedition

Artime came to see me at his own initiatives.

The meeting had been.:

arranged through Congressman Dante Fascell's office.

I have known

Artime for several years. bur had nor seen him for abour two yeare.

Artime stared that the purpose of hia visit was to expresa some per.

sonal views about the Cuban situation. He siid he fully appreciated the

fact that the Cuban exile looke at his homeland in a manner quite dilferent

from • e United States Government with its world-wide responsibilitien.

Nevertheless, he thought it important that hit-and-run raide be resumed

againat Cuba lo (l) keep up the hopes of the opposition inside the island

and (2) force Fidel to maintain a high state of alert which materially.

aubtracts from his economie efforts. Artime noted that assets to make

• these salda are available but are not being uned. He did not specifically

nak for support to resume hia activities.

& told him that while his arguments had certain merit, there were also

other considerations which should be kept in mind. l.e., that hit-and-run

raids provide a pretext for Castro to turn the screws of repression harder

on the Cuban people and to place the bline for his own failure on estermal

attacks. Artime acknowledged the validity of these arguments and dia rot

pussue the matter further.

Artime sald that he had reached the point where he had to think of finding

# Job to support his wife and three children. He indicated a preference

for a job that would permit him to travel throughout Latin America so

that he couis maintain his contacts in uther countrias, and asked that I

let him know li Ilearned of any opportunities I said I would.

The rest of our conversation ranged over à saries of points - Cubela,

Rabel, Gutierres Menoyo, Huber Matos, the atatus of political prisoners.

Castro's security measures, mutual friends in Miami . but he had nothing

agnificant to say.

Toward the end of our convorsation, he returned to the subjectso! raide to

volunteer his services in a leadership or subordinate capacity ll the United

CONFIDENTIAI

---

## Page 100

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Canditouss

THE WHITE HOUSE

МАВМІЛЄТОВ

CONE DESTLAL

VEMORAWDUY OF CONVERSATION

September 9, 1966

5:30 p.m.

SUBJECT: Manuel Artimi - leader of the Bay of Pige expedition

Artime came to ree me at his own initiative. The meeting had been

arranged through Congressman Dante Fascell's office. I have known

Artinie for several years, but had not seen him for about two years.

Artime atared that the purpose of his visit was to express some per-

sonal views about the Cuban situation. He said he fully appreciated the

-fact that the Cubar exile looks at his homeland in a manner quite different

from ' o United States Government with ita world-wide responsibilities.

Nevertheless, he thought it important that hit-and-run raide be resumed

aglast Cuba to (l) keep up the hopes of the opposition inside the laland

and (2) force Fidel to maintain a high state of alert which materlally.

subtracts from his economic efforts. Artime noted that assets to make

¡these raida are available but are not being used. He did not specifically

ask for support to resume his activities.

I told him that while his arguments had certain merit, there were also

other considerations which should be kept in mind, l.e., that hit-and-run

ralds provide a pretext for Castro to turn the acrews of repression harder

• on the Cuban people and to place the blame for his own fallure on external

attacks. Artime acknowledged the validity of these arguments and did not

pursue the matter further.

Artime said that he had reached the point where he had to think of finding

= job to support his wife and three children.

He indicated a preference

for a job that would permit him to ravel throughout Latin America so

that he could maintain his contacta in other countries, and asked that I

let him know it Ilearned of any opportunities. I sald I would.

The rest of our conversation rangos sver a sarios of pointa - Cubele.

Rabel, Gutierrer Menoyo, Huber Matos, the statue of polltical prisoners,

Caatro's security measures, mutual friends la Miam! - but he had nothing

«Ignificant so sd;.

Toward the end of our conversation, he returned to the nubjechof ralde to

volunteer his sorvicos in a leadership or subordinate capacity li she United

CON. IDENTIAL

---

## Page 101

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

CONFIDEITIAL

-2-

States Government decided to resume this type of activity. I tuld him I

fully understood his deep desire to idd his county freed and what great

efforts he had made rowad this objective, and thanked him ior the offer.

He also asked that I do what I could to preveni auspension of remittances

to families of those who had lought against Castro. I told him I knew

nothing about thir but would look into it.

In departing he expressed deep appreciation for my having given him to

much time (1 hour ) and for having the chance to converse with one who

understood Cuba's problems and his preoccupationa. This was a rather

subdued and reflective Artime quite a contrast with the fiery and com..

bative Artime si two yeara ago.

Co «

Rostow

Mi®

Mr

Ms

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 102

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

I HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE REC 10 FOE $5,000 FOR TES MONTES

OF APRIL, HAY, JUNE AND JULY 1966 DETAILS OF WHICH

HAVE ALREADY BEEN FORWARDED.

IGM

CIO

4. 81866

---

## Page 103

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

RR

20 20 Z CITE DIRECTOR

38156

SER REI CIE DIRECTOR

Seat 66

TYPI

IN PHONE CALL 26 SEPT AMBIDDY- I TOLD GROVERY THAT

RUBASS! HAD WITHIN PAST FEW DAYS INFORMED IDEN, POSSIBLY

NICOLD A, THAT UG ACT HAD RECENTLY INFILTRATED A GROUP 'INTO

REXS AREA GE OF JENTE PROVINCE.

13:

AMBIDDY-S ADDED THAT HE CALLING MATTER TO GROWITY'S

STENTION SECAUSE, IF TRUE, THIS INFO WELL KNOWN THROUGHOUT

EXILE COMMUNITY.

SEE HOS FILES SHOW THEI IDEN POA CANCELLED OCT 65.

MANDO SINCE INTAS IS AREA WHERE AMSCAR TEAM INFILTRATED NIGKT

DECOTT HOS CONCERNED SECURITY OF TEAM AND OFS THIS AREA IN

Ba

REQUEST INWAVE REVIEW SECURITY ASPECTS THIS CASE AND

ADVISE COMMENTS PRIORITY.

SECRET

SE CHET

TO TEN 21

BEPHOSUGTION ET GIMER THAN THE MOVING OFFICE IN PAO

PBATICATIH

---

## Page 104

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

:. *

Do CIT

=л.

DIRECTOR

10RD: VI. PILE O RID COPY

TEDEATPOTORT

PAGEZ

CITE DIRECTOR

38156

NOTE:

GRIGINATING FFICER

COORDINATINA OFFICER

RELIAS INQ OFFICER

Le CHOCCA WC/POP

Re ORTMAN C/VWC/MO

WILLIANSON FOR WILLIAN V. ARdE CAND

án 0÷ 009

SECRET

BUCTIO!

---

## Page 105

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

+G82.

SECRET

= 0088

5 00 1060

C8+A 18 88 88 18

ma = ore.

26 28 32 Z CITE DIRECTOR

B8 1 59

SIGRIT CHI DIRICIO

PRESITY SHUAVE

ДВАТ ТУРІЄ

RES DIRECTOR

IDEN- TONY IGLESIAS

SECRET

26150060072}

BOTE:

ORIGINATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER

ELEASING OFFICER

Lo CHIOCCA VIC/ MO/ FI

Ro

ORTMAN C/MC/MO

VILLIANSON FOR WILLIAN V. BRC COHE

TO CABLE SEC FILES BLUE SIRCENE PLS INSERT DIRECTOR NBR OF PLE

CHICH IS BESSAGES WITH CAME AbDE BE ST

пт.

SECRET

MINE THAN TH

---

## Page 106

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

I/C 66-300

30 sue 1968

CANNONS FOR, MIN

8 ABIDT-1 Accousidogs for April,

ay, sumo nod July

WE/C 60-388

Mirther to the referonond minornadan.

attached plenne fina accountings from Subjeet unteh

mould brins your recorde up to date.

Kindly note, however, that the attreho

vanpen cover period. during which both mere.

Wer coontable. Home,

for tho portodo of April and Iny advances vero

"stered on Mr. Rohlfine's necount while the

ment advancon (hien are now secountod for)

Plaond on 2. WIlliamson's scecunt. Ia up

' come scootini, st to therefore requested

both advanes secants to remlariard.

should

MFT20r anton

anton, pleare contaet

DDP/wH/C/CA/5w/Bohlfing:iph 30 Augunt 68

Distribution:

Orig a 1 - Addresse

..-

AC/WH/C

HI/C/CA/EN

AMBIDDY -1

WE/C/SFEC

JEGNET

=h?:

tg:-

A 172

---

## Page 107

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

L

---

## Page 108

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

seas

(2)

---

## Page 109

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 110

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Miami 20 August 1966

I. leports reesived from foxino Diad, our delegate in

Venesuela:

Pas Galorroga who has strong ant!-Amerdean tendenedes.

Is Daylug reapons for the hose party in order lo be

pondy in cose they lose the elections, Pad Galarraga

•spora to be the presidential candidnte. These

weapons are being purchased uy the party unbelnouse to

the army.

Fernando Pulg, veroran of day of Pigs, ex-PDO of the

Buy of ples° Alr force, do lle one mo la la elargo of

obtaduing the contraband weapons for then. Fernando

Pudg°s family Is ln Miami bue he lives de the 1108el

Tomanoco In Caracas in a luxurious manner.

2. Reports received from Costa Rica

who worked at the INvU in

the previous government:

There la a group of Costa Ricans who are buying

repond: in Costa Rica for a group of Panamanians who

wint to oust Marcos Robles..

was named

middle mon in the purchase of some of these weapons.

obtained : A-j from the people of the

prevlous government the seedad money. He tells me that

no has done lt In order to got to know the leaders of

the conspiracy, The intermediary (riose name lo onieted

L

---

## Page 111

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

-2=

because this is reported by letter) told iin that all the

Panananiar opposition united was doing this thenl

asked him df the Communists were lo this. he replied

p-at they had lo coun wish "the entire world". The l-3

are going to be purchased for $250.00 dollars.

asked me not to report this to the

"Acordeang" nor the Costa Rican Government beenuse/ nobody's

fool.("Chivaco" de nadle). He told me because he knows

I am a good Irlend of Marcos Robles and I may warn Marcos

Bobles of this. I am writing

so that do.

will give me everyehing on the names of the buyers.

Through a messago from Blanquita Amaro which I recelved

some time ago, I learned that the Communises hed made a

pact with Arnulfo Arias to ouse Sobles. Also thar the

students had agreed to Join them. However, all this has

to be confirmed.

3. I am attaching

" photostatio copy of a lotter received

Iros Porto Rico which contains something of Interest.

*a According to reporis received by a family, friends

of Inocencio Alongo who came to Cuba, there la a training contar

for che security of the state in the highway "Tamayo" of Havana

(tho cushironi, shere all the prolossora are foreigners (Rusgiang

and Chech), This place da strongly guarded and has big anti-aereal

---

## Page 112

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

-5-

emplacements. They say that many lathas.

are la. Cups, visit the area.

whe

: '5 J attended the burial of President Schieh and the

Cubans headed by Tapanes and me made the last Honor Guard

to the deceased president. I went to the cometery with the

Central American diplomats. There I was introduced to the son

•1 President Trejos, who luvited me to go to Costa Rica, as

well' as the Costa Rican Chief of the District Attourney's

offIce. A very interesting dato is that I was Introduced to

the Menlean Chancellor and me had a friendly conversation.

At the end of the sume, he told me: "Fidel has gone very far.

le could be, Artime, our government does

not think the same

way 18 did 6 months ago". A pleture of boch of us together

was taten and also 111ms for the I. V. The Central American

diplomats took my side in my aggressive anti-Fidelistic concepts,

and the Costa Rican Ambassador went as far as 80 88y: "Il great

nations such as yours would help these men, as we of small

Central Amerdean nations do, we would not have to depend so much

on the United Staies io get rid of the bearded in.; àut all of

you do not help and we have nothing to help with so everything

lo left in the hands of the Amerleans. The resule of which

has already been soon in che esy of Pigs..

6. By a mossace received through. Robless Presidont

Marcos Robles sent me a message requesting to speak with me.

To I bellove that l have the opportunity to work for

---

## Page 113

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

the Gulf American Land Corporation In Central America.

They are going to give me an answer tomorrow. I repeat that

& willing to be a selling agent of any serdous company

mao wishes so deal in the Central Amer'ea: market.

I already brought my first order from the Plearaguan

Notional Guard.for the "Glafor International". It was easy

because "Tacho" telephoned the Chief of Supply and told him.

to treat me as he would treat him. I belleve that 1f 1

obtain employment with Gulf lt will be an excellent "cover"

for movement around those areas.

8. I have an appointment with Jin Bondler-at she White

House for 9 September at 1:00 P.M.. I also Intend to ses

Bostow, even though I have not made arrangements yet. I belleve

that the Central American situation and the Latin Amerlean problems

In general will not be resolved while Fidel Is still in power

because the capital !e leaving Latin Ameries and the Alliance

for Progress, which should be a "help" has been converted into

the " ossential for subsistence". I belleve chas she fresident

of the United States who 1a able to resolvo the Communiat problem

and the hunger in Latin America will go down. In hiatory as che

grootout man of the contomporary ers.

---

## Page 114

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

RENDER WILL CHECK LSPIDENTIAL I

CSCLASSIFIED

CATION TOP ANO BOTTON

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

DATE

INITIALS

tod

4110M

APPROVAL

CONI MENT

URRENCE

MIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH.

FIL?

INFORMARON

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Horably include

nifo on cussies betineer

man so ni Maci.

POLD HR9 9

1p 237

UNCLASSIFIED

Use previous edition

CONTIDEN

SECHET

---

## Page 115

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

138 Des De

-LOBBIDO TO PILA NO.

#-OCO TO PIRE NO..

RECIENED MISSACE

SECRET

REPACOLCTICA APONIMITES

17100

JDnl

INFO

WHI

E RID COPY

ISUSENE CH; UNICE IDEMROT CHE CONTES, CONTONE

CA/OI, CICLORE, S/C2,EL FINT, 1/0, 101, 55/00, 55/590, RIJAN, S006

SE CRE T 18213AZ CITEL

19 AuG Es E 7 9 200

DIRECTOR INFO SENALE

PEPS&

нод 22.2

( 73268)

400 76829)

VIREG: OR 27359ª

EVLANE-A INFORMED STATION THAT HE VAS APPROACHED ON

16 AUGUST SY CUBAN EXILE IGNACIO CASTRO (NO STATION TRACES):

IN LOBBY OF HOTEL EMBAJADOR AND ASKED TO AIT MIS GROUP IN

MAITIAN INVASION ATTEMPT.

CASTRO DESCRIPTIONS HT 5°6"; HT 185 LBS8

ISTIONALITY CUBAN DARX INDIAN COMPLEXIONg ROUND TALES BLACK

HAL, TLASNY DRESSER; SPEAKS LITTLE ENALISH SUT SEEMS INTEL-

LIGENT •

CASTRO SUPPOSEDLY EPRESENTS PUERTO RICAN ACRICULTURE

AMBIDDY

DIO OFFICE SUPFLY FIRM, GONZALEZ AND FRIAS, AND PLANS TO

OFEN UP OFFICE IN SANTO DOMINGO SOON.

"si nini

CASTRO CURRENTLY RESIDES MOTEL COMERCIAL.

CASTRO STATED THAT HE WAS CONNECTID WITH CUBAN

GROUP LIVING IN PUERTO RICO THAT HAD EXILE CAMP MERE KiR

SECRET

---

## Page 116

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

PACE TWO SANTO DENTISO 609S L SECRET

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC DURING TER" OF SEIS COPPAL. LE-A

BELIEVES THAT THEPE WERE ABOUT S5 MEN IN THAT GROUPS.

GROUP PLAYS TO IMPIRRATE TO DOMINICAN OFPUSLIC TO ATTEMPT

RECRUIT MAITIANS FOO THEID INVASION FORCE, MO DATE STATED.

6. DUPING CONVERSATION, CASTRO ASKED E-A IF ME KVEN

PIERRE RIGAUD AND IF. E-A THOUSHT GERARD LA FONTANT WAS.

COMMUNIST.

:To ACCORDING TO E-A CASTRO SEEMS TO SF. IN ELEMENTARY

-LANNING STAGE.

•Bo CASTRO TOLD E-A THAT "THEY WERE WORKING TO MAVE

BALAGUER 'CLOSE HIS EYES TO THEIR ACTIVITIES'" CÁSTRO ALSO

MENTIONED THAT HE KNEW OTHER BROUPS WERE WORKINA TOWARD SAME

ENDS AS MIS GROUP, IOÉ., TO DEPOSE DUVALIER SO SASE OF

OPERATIONS AGAINST CASTRO CAN BE SET UP IN MAITI.

dito.

I-A TOLD TO CALL CASTRO SOONEST: AND ATTEMPT ELICIT

KHORE INFROMATION FROM MIM.

TRACES REQUESTED FPOM DIRECTOR. AND ADDEES.

LI INDEX CASTRO.

SECRET

MRS BEQUESTS EULANE-N MINDE SOR

SECRET

---

## Page 117

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

I/c 66-365

17 AUG 1966

IEEHORAJDUN FOR: WE/BY

ATTRITION

Accounting for ALAXDDI-I Monthly

Paymente

1.

The undermianed In currently chirged wis

two 1ton of 15,000 ech representing the monthly

pyment to AlBIDDY! for the months of April and y

•l this year. They huve no far been unccounted for

no to a chango In Cn Offleer wao handle him..

w1121annos, DC/I/C.

Although AIrPIl In eurrently 1a Contral

artes on na tended trip, 1t is planned that

moconnting and roceipts viil be obtained fron him

coverin; both the above mentioned portod is voll na

then valet have born made fro. my to the present.

In tho matino, It In hereby requested that

me offion provide the deraignd with an extenato

pond th moron. 80 syn. throarh the noat. o1 AusTe

Im entor to sllon tin for tao underuigned to obtain

the moranary receipts.

MYROVID!

(81gnod)

Distrihation:

Adderesee

DC/ Wil/C

€/WE/C

DE/C/ ESEC

ANBINDI -1

Chrone

SECRET

B5009 1

Racinded tron suinmaino

• Banterate nud

---

## Page 118

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

July 23, 1966

Dear Jin:

I pass the following information to you: l. Colonel

General Manager of Lanica Airlines, has

received a

SANCHEZ iron the Compañla Cubana de Aviacion, of which I am

enclosing photos.atic copies,

and according to Colonel SANCHEZ

this is

extrenely serious, since this not only represents a

bill of $1,496.00 dollars

which will go into the hands of

CASTRO, but all the Latin American aviation companies will

have to pay a similar bill monthly, which dollars will go to

Cuba.

Colonel SANCIlEZ says that the

seriousness of the problem

does

not stop there.

It is the opinion of the Latin American

airlines that Cubana de Aviación will send each one of these

lines a bill for everything they have not paid since CASTRO

and pot some. lie be a dad thes, have channa chei chures

so as not to pass over Cuba. Colonel SANCHEZ says that if

Fidel collects

this belated bill, it will mean about a million

dollars for him.

2.

According to conversations held with General MONTIEL,

the last three cases of Nicaraguan persons who were trained

in Russia and have re-entered Nicaragua have done so using the

route: Socialist Bloc • Cuba - Mexico - Miami - country of

origin.

The United States visas were obtained in Mexirs and

• were transit visas.

This can throw the Latin American

authorities off.

since no one expects that from Miami could

come anyone coming

from Russia.

The last one captured in Nicaragua (Carl can tell you). from

being interrogated

as to why he had gone up to the U.

Mexico and then to El Salvador and Managua, answered that he

had received orders to do so.

It must be taken

into account that on passing through the

United States with a transit visa these men can give out orders

and watchwords.

The two Nicaraguans with whom I have spoken about

possibly working for our cause, putting the problem to them

something completoly Cuban,

were:

Raúl PALACIO,

law student

intelligent,

It the Central American University. of Managua demonstrations

1ood speaker, crurageous,

has participated in

calist the Government of the SOMOZAs,

and is a nophew of

Deputy MOLINA, who supports him financially and pays for his

schooling.

MOLINA 19 well known as an anti-American, although

in the background ho gets along with the United States Ambas

andor to NicaraguA,

RadI PALACIO told me that he had to think

---

## Page 119

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

it over carefully, since this could mean the loss of one year

in his career.

Against this position (of his career), I spoke to him about

toe possibility of becoming a great leader of the Nicaraguan

and about possible training abroad in the political,

econonic, or social field, whichever he would like nost.

The ocher Nicaraguan from whom I received a message has Gustavo

JARQUIN.

le is a half-brother of Leticia JARQUIS, who works

with me (they have the same father but not the sane mother).

He sent me the message through a brother of Leticia whose name

is Adán; who also lives in Andaime, Nicaragua.

The nessage

was the

following:

that he wanted to talk

to me about some

very interesting things which would benefit me and Cuba.

This man was in Cuba for training, and, it seems, in Russia.

A militant Communist, it seems that he

has had financial dif

ficulties,

which

the

Party has not helped him out of.

Carl is investigating him before I speak with him.

I am attaching a machine copy of the letter which

Enrique TOUS sent to Manuel GUILLOT, in which he tells about

the matter of Blas ROCA y Narinello.

I am attaching a photostatic copy of a letter received

by Jost GONZALEZ Puig, which gives a good explanation of the

situation in Cuba.

A package was sent from Managua to Cuba, via mexico:

in which were;

one pair of tennis shoes, two undershirts

twe undershorts,

four pairs of stockings,

two ladies' brassieres,

eno ladies panties, three bottles of medicine.

We'll see if they receive it in Cuba and when.

on Thursday, July 2og

MI. Elo VALDIVIA SorI, who worked for

• long time

in the M.R.R. in Cuba, arrived on one of the flights

to freedom.

He told me:

that the only name spoken in Cuba was that of

ARTIME•

That the Cuban Government confiscates all incoming. CoT.

spondence from the United States of America which has newly

issued stamps, to use them in philatelic negotiations:

When

the stamp

is no

longer princed they lec the letters througi

are agents

•E CASTRO'S G-2.

They live in Marianao, Calle 124 and Avenida

49, across from Police

Station No.

17•

In an interview that Elo VALDIVIA Sorf had during a visit

thee they allowed him with Jesds GONZALE? Burgues, who 1g a

irisoner at the "Jaruco No. 1" rahabilitation farm, he informes

aim that when he was a prisonor at la Cabafa (about three

montha ago) he learned that Hubert MATOS was at La Cabaña, that

*ly 8a among e alekreferentiad treatment, and that Fided

---

## Page 120

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Juan ALSISA Javarro was also a prisoner at La Cabaña,

while

CUBELAS was only detained at his residence, and about GALLARRETA

nobody linew anything.

5.

ElO VALDIVIA SOrI had contacts with Alfredo ALBUERNE, an

electro-mechanical engineer and technician who works at

the

Cuenca Sur (South Basin) in Havana,

in the supplying of water

to the Capital.

This man spole critically of a relative who.

had gone to the United States and who in his opinion was an

agent of Fidel CASTRO.

This relative who left had been a ser-

geant in the Marina de Guerra (Navy) in Cuba in BATISTA'S

time.

Everything seems to coincide with the descrintion of

the ALBUERNE who was a prisoner in the Zenón Viera Base in

Nicaragua®

The engineer Alfredo ALBUERNE is against the Communist regime,:

and although he wants to leave Cuba he is watched carefully

because for the moment the Government does not have a replace-

ment for him in the work that he does in the Cuenca Sur (South

Basin).

He (Elo VALDIVIA Sorf) had contact with Luis VALDIVIA Delgado,

• youth who was won over by the Cumpulsory Military Service

and who now works as an electronics technician in the Microwave

Station on. the Staff of the Armed Forces.

He (Elo VALDIVIA Sorf) had contact with Lizaro FERNANDEZ (he

is not very sure of

the last name), a youth who works

State Security Service in one of the main offices in "old

Havana".

He (Elo VALDIVIA Sorf) brought in the information that Vicente

a G»z agent.

Also that Fidel CASTRO is in the habit of

the Laguito (translator's note:

"laguito, Boing every day to

means "little lake",

out in this context it could be a bar

restaurant, or club of

some kind at the Country Club to visit LLANUSA.

Also that after 3:00 in the afternasa, Fidel CASTRO usually

takes the following route; Calzada (avenue or drive) de Columbia

as far as Avenida 35, and then he

e continues on Avenida 35 as

far as La Playa (the Beach)*:

Also that he

(Fidel CASTRO)

does not usually have a set schedale;

he goes at 3:00, or at 4:00, or at 5:00, or at 6:00 in the

afternoon.

I told Elo VALDIVIA SorI to get in touch immediately with his

friends in

the interior

and tell them to write simple letter...

to the New York address if they are in agreement to do someching

useful.

the United States:

The following need Re-entry Permits to be able to leave

Edgar SOPO Granda

Marcos VALDES Castilla,

---

## Page 121

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

The first of these is going to worl (il is very possible) as

a publicity agent

in Sounzi's canpaign.

The second

succeeded

in getting a rosition as a real estate

salesean in an American company and he has to go to Central

America and V'enezuela.

If these boys find jobs there they will not unly have their

Future assured

but

they will continue to be able to collaborate

nith the United

Statese

If you refuse the request, you are

putting ne

in a predicament, because they cannot get jobs in

Miami and I cannot support them.

chint that, considering

che circunstances.

it

is

inhuman that boys who

have collaborated

In everything with the United States, including at the ris

of their own lives

should receive treatment so absurd that it

jeopardizes their financial stability.

8.

The radio in Cuba has set me up as an example in the

Cuban

exile novement, and I have

received word that they have

planned,

inside Cuba, to eliminate me:

Due to this, I went to the office of

the sheriff of Dade County

to see about the possibility of obtaining a permit to carry a

which was granted through the intervention of a veteran

Mr. Eric JIMENEZ, who

is now a

detective in the County,

Captain LONGBOTTOM,

(I mentioned

Captain LONGBOTTOM told me that he wanted very much to go to

Central AmeriCa,

since he had never been there before.

I told

nim that 1 would

be very happy to get him a Nicaraguan visa

and that I would be able to put him up, if it were just for a

short time, at the home of any Nicaraguan friend of mine.

My motives

for saying this were:

1. Gratitude for the efforts they have made.

So that the Miami police would realize the con-

sideration and respect that they have for me in these latin

Ameriçan countriese

I even thought about the possibility that some

American agencies had doubts about whether or not I really had,

LONGBOTTON could be a go-between for these agencies.

In Nicaragua, the Camps that Fidel CASTRO says I have, i course,

since the Company already knows perfectly

well one came and what I don't have both Captain LONGBOTTOM

When I was in Nicaragua I noticed that

and Eric were carefully inspected on arriving in Mini (in

sharp contrast to their arrival in Nicaragus, where for the

simple face that they were with me they didn't even open their.

suitcases.

All this because the "Miami Heroid" said that two high officials

of Dade County had gone to inspect, my camps in Central America.

All this doesn't bother me in the least: since it is a problem

for Americans:

However, thelisti was to have brought of the equipment we have

---

## Page 122

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

in Nicaragua I left in a safe in Managua because I was thinking

and after passing through

the formalities of Inmigration and

Custons, two courteous in-

vestigators,

one from the Department of Customs and the other

from the Buresu of Narcorics, invited me very delicately to

go into their office to talk

with then.

There they searched

me, and with the greatest courtesy in the world they asted me

the stupidest questions that could be asked of anyone.

one of

which was: if Cantain LONGBOTTOM and Eric JIMENEZ belonged te

the C.l.A. I don't know whether of not they thought the Color.

and I were waging a private war against CASTRO, or if they

thought the C.l.A. and I were involved in narcotics smuggling.

The search they made of me was rather ineffective.

Since I my-

self opened the secret compartment of my briefcase for them

so that they could see that if I had wanted to smuggle something

I would have done so, but nevertheless I had not done so.

Anyhow, I am going to present my complaints to the Department

of State in Miami, and I shall write a letter to the President

of the United States of America, because I believe that the

least one can do for a triend is to treat him with consideration®

or at least not subject him to any annoyance.

If they had some

doubt about me, I think that there would have been ways much

more courteous

and above all less disagreeable to resolve them.

I want to make it clear that the conduct of these agents was

nt all times courteous.

And it all ended in pleasant chatter

In which I even offered to collaborate with them in everything

which might pertain to their offices, except in that which

ght harm the cause of the liberation of Cuba. I made it very

Clear that I was no? working as an agent of any agency or de-

partment of the United States, and that anytime I

learn some-

thing that might harm the United States or something that has

to do with international Communism,

I would notify old friends

I have within certain departments of the United States Govern-

ment.

9.

I have opportunities to worh for an import-export com

pany •

and us a salesman in Central America for a merallurgical

company.

I have decided that

the best work for me is in making

use of

my public relations and of my close ties with the Cer-

tral Americsn Governments.

Besides, this would permit me

to continue travelling through-

out Central Averica, to maintain my contacts, and to be useful

to my councry and to Democracy.

If there were some possibility

of being a salesman or manager

of a company which

is devoloping economic activities in Central

I would appreciate very

Luch this type octoby "Were cutt, BetteR BoT

much this type of

der Patrol, ete.,

ote. etce, don't begin to get in my way.

---

## Page 123

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

think chat the only thing to vorry about in my case is that

one day I may be assassinated by

international Consunisa.

believe that I have been known for

seven years now, and I have

not failed.

not before the arents of the Cuban Communist 6-2,.

nor before the very real possibility of tie lirior squad.

10.

I have received a message from General Fulgencio

BATISTA y Zaldivar through Orlando PIEDRA, that he has requested

an interview with me.

I think that the best way to learn his

plans as to speak with Orlando PlEDRA, and & have accepted,

on a day, and at a

time that a specify.

in princiole, the interview, in a placer, uill set a recorder.

If it

is possible

and if not, I will inform on the results of the effore.

with nothing more at the moment, your humble servant very at-

tentively takes leave of you.

1s/ Ignacio

---

## Page 124

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

;.

FORE CHIEF, WHD

HW ATTACHYENT TO HNMA-3620

Dated:

21 July 1966

---

## Page 125

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4—

+85+84691599

PEOR TO FLING

Fil 500?

2

T sa

13 1in y 21

"Spaca taca tap

SIGILVAI: ACTOS LASEN OS CUELMENTE SEGUI.

+PI810880701

70. ACTION BRANCH

Ii tie no and tie saoma ara soy propos.

insen proper tio no helom and dorsara

documear to RID AN

FROM:

TOMA FRA NO

RID AN

TO

ALL ADORESS

FEL I SACION 1 ORBICA

CAH

TO

27 198

=.

28188

WH Cuba

10.

AC/WN/C

ya.

WNiClEE

13.

LOURRIKE

76.

47,

Saur

AERONAUTA

RAdio.

Inc

Dissem

Ars вы с

FECLASSIPTED

RI/ AIT

RI/MIS

101.46

7437

RI/F1.108

PIDE TIVLU

HID/EL

INDE#

1 41

6100

BOITON®

BEURE3S1-1362437

23 JuL 66

SECHEY

MNNA 03620

100s

---

## Page 126

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

DISPATCH

chief, it civisio

З-i---i-1-.

Wout AM

10

1050.

FRON

SEE HERE

Chief of Station,

Fucker

( Cuban Service Charges Against LAVICA Airline

TRiM REQUIRED - REFERENCEB

ACTION:

Eas

For Headquarters information, or action ig

deened appropriate.

1.

On 20 July 1966, AMBIDDY-1 gave

copy

of a letter to LANICA (Nicaraguan national alriine)

from

Empresa Consolidada Cubana da Aviacion, containing a

Bild for USS1,496.00 as radio service charges.

made

, copy of the letter and bird, which are attached herewith.

AMBIDD'-1 said he was given his copy of the letter by Col.

Herberto SANCHEZ, President of LAVICA.

2.

According to AIBIDDY-1, COL• SANCHEL Said that

every

matin American airline which overflies Cuba, or uses

Rancho Boyeros radio as a check point,

is

going to be billed

retroactively for these services.

LANICA's bill is relatively

low because their flights dog-leg around Cuba, but some of

the other airlines are going

to have rather high bills.

Cole

SANCHEZ estimated that the charges against Latin American ais

Lines would total almost one million U.S. dollars.

3.

Col, SANCHE? considered this information significant

and asked AMBIDDY-1 if he could get it into the right hands.

has requested that AMBIDDY-1 deliver his copy of the

attached letter and bill to his Headquarters case officer,

and this report is forwarded only as a follow-up.

JDZABOTH: weg

Attachment,

HW:

Letter and bill, als

Distribution:

3

• Chala,

WHD w/att

2.77J41y 1966

GS COPY

DISPATON SVANCE AND MURABER

HNMA-3620

CLASNPICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

201 - 267437

DurE

JUL 22 1966

NQS FILE NUMBER

53-500

---

## Page 127

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

"SECRET

-amate

COPY

AFT MI TO ANMASGTO

301-267437

L

530%

---

## Page 128

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

"SECRET

HAMA

3650

CS COPY

30/967437

L

---

## Page 129

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

i SECRET

File

22 July 1966

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AMBIDDY-1

1.

During the course of an operational meeting with

AMBIDDY-1 in Washington, D.C., on 22 June, he raised the

subject of financial payments presently being made to bim

monthly ($3,000) which he claims is used to help dependents

of AMWORLD memtars whose husbands or providers have been

oither kilied or imprisoned as a result of activities for

AWORLD.

AMBIDDY-I was specifically interested as to

whethor or not I could give assurances that the mouthl

payments would not be further reduced (they were reduced

from $5,000 a month to $3,000 on l June) or terminated

In the future.

2.

AMBIDDY-1 was advised to consider the matter

from

a strictly realistic point of view; that the original

purpose of the pajments was to tide these people over for

& short period until they could readjust their. lives and

prepare for and obtain gainful employment.

The payments

to his people were never meant to be considered as "pensiong"

and certainly would not be paid indefinitely.

It was pointed

out that with the present heavy financial commitments of

Viet Nam all Government budgets were being closely scrutinized

and all Government agencies were suffering rather extensive

cuts.

AMBIDDY-I was told that although there was no word

at the present tire that his payments might be cut further

or discontinued,

he should certainly prepare his people

now for the possibility and urge them, if they had not

mIready done so, to seek gainful employment.

3.

This conversation led into a discussion concerning

AMBIDDY-l's future.

It was also stressed for his benefit

that he should establish himself in legitimate employment

whore he could provide for himself and his family in the

future.

AMBIDDY-1 claimed that he only had $3,000 in

personal savings and the ANYORLD organization about $12, 600.

He was given & blank PRU #1 and asked to 11l1 it out on big

return

and nail it to the writer.

Although

no commitments

were made he was inld that we were interested in helping aim

SECRET.

Ensluded trom surematio

damartarine end

---

## Page 130

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

-2-

secure legitimate employment and assured him that if he

did do this be would always be considered in a "ready

reserve" and would be called upon for assistance in

PBRUMEN activities whenever it was thought his services

could be useful.

The meeting

closed with a clear understanding

On AMBIDDY-l's part, as

far as the writer at least is

concerned, that his present subsidy payment of $3.000 per

month is subject to being cut at any

time as well

as being

eliminated entirely at some future date.

Acting Chief, WH/Cuba

SECRET

---

## Page 131

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

ti."

22 July 1989

MORANDON FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AMBIDDY -1

1.

During the course of an operational meeting with

ABIDDY-1 in Washiagton, D.C., on 22 June,

he raised the

"bject of financial paynenta presently being nade to him

monthly ($3,000) which he claims 1a used to help dependente

O AMWORLD members whose husbands or providers have been

Other killed or imprisoned an a result of activities for

MWORLD. ABIDDY-] was specifically interested as to

"hother or not I could give asmurances that the monthly

Payments would not be further reduced (they were reduced

"rom so,000 month

to $3,000 on 1 June) or terminated

#n the future.

ANBIDDY- as advised to consider the matter

from a strictly realistic point of view, that the original

purpone of the payments was to tide these people over for

• short period until

they could readjust their lives and

Pooro for and obtain gainful employment.

The paymenta

là his roople were

never munt to be considered as "persions"

and curtainly would not be paid indefinitely.

It was pointed

Out that with the present heavy financial comnituerte of

ot am all Government budgets were being closely scrutinizod

09d m11 Govornment agencles vere suffering rather eztensive.

cuts.

AlbIDD'-1"a= told that although there was no word

It tho present time that his payments might be cut furtser

o alecontinued,

he should certainly prepare his people

Don for the ponsibility and urge them, if they had not

"redy done so, to nook gaintul omployment.

This conversation led Into & dincussion concerning

4BIDDY-1'a future.

It was also streused for his. benefit

Chit he should entabliah himself in legitimate enployment

where he could provide for himaci. and his family in thr

future.

AMBIDDY-] claimed that he only had $3,000 12

Porsonml envirge and the AM"ORLD organisation about $12,000.

and 11 1t to the writer.

Although no commitments:

Wore unde he was told

that we vere interested in helping hin

---

## Page 132

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

-2-

secure legitimte employment and assured him that 11 he

did do this he would always be considered in a "rendy

reserve" and would be called upon for assistance in

PBRINEN activitles whenever it was. thought his servicen

could be useful.

The noting closed with a clear understanding

on AKBIDDY-l's part, as far as

the writer at least 1n

concerned, that his present subaldy payment of 33,000 per

month 1s subject to being cut at any time as well as being

•IIninntod entirely at some future date.

---

## Page 133

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

AC/*H/C

2231

BusTS: 29

13 JULY 66

GISSEN 18

1 PER

TREME DIEFCTOR

Caus

ANH/C&

USECRET

1st 818910

# 10$68

D AND LATES

LESSAGE FCRA

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

3Q

RID COPY

DOROY RETURN TIRAME

wei a . As WHE, CIOPS, CIOA, FL

I :18 3BEZ CITE DIRETOR

18995)

TYPIC ANBIDP'Y/1

RET: DIRECTOR 18381

I. FOLLOWING IS TRANSLATION OF NOTE RECEIVED FROM AMBIDDY/)

FROM MIAMI DATED 6 JULY: "FROM AN INFILTRATION WHICH I HAVE IN THE

MIAMI POLICE (DADE COUNTY), IT SEEMS THAT THEY KNEW WHERE MASTERRE

HAD THE LOT ON CON TEAPONS AND WEEN TEET WENT TO CAPTURE THEN, A

HIGH OFFICIAL (POSSIBLY NAJOR HILL) TOLD THEN THAT HE HAD RECEIVED

TE ORDER VOT TO TOUCH THOSE WEAPONS FROM KUBARK) MASFERRER EAS

MENTIONED AMONG HIS MEN THAT THOSE WEAPONS WERE GIVEN TO EIM BY

• KUBARK, THE NAME OF THE SOURCE OF THE INFORMATION WAS QMITTED (OF

THE POLICEMAN) FOR HIS PROTECTION, SINCE HE IS SURE THAT IT MAY HAM

HIM,

"THE SOURCE IS RELIABLE. "

?. PRESUMABLY ABOVE REFERS TO ARMS MENTIONED BY AMBIDDY/I IN

PARA 2 DE REI.

3.: ANBTDNY/1 PLANNEP TO LEAVE FOR NICARAGUA ABOUT Y JULE. EE

WILL PIONS HQS C/O ON HIS RETURN AT WHICH TIME WILY BS REQUESTED TO

PRETEE ANT CNRTYIONAL DETAILS AVAILABLE ON ABOVE REPORT

C/WH/C/MO

SA!

WILLIAN Vo

BHOE

COBROIAT!

C/WR/C/Fi

TAGE EATING

BEC

ROPRODUGTION I OTHBA THAN THE INSUIMO ORPICK 13

PRONI&IT&D.

Me san a 10

---

## Page 134

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

##18:

AC/H/C

3481

BATE:

12 JULY 1966

DIRE 00-74 PER-

990M: DIRECTOR

come WHIC?

• TEXAS VIRATIONT

SECRET

SMILE NO

I TIE I S THE W

MESSAGE FORM

ТОТАВ СОРІЕД:!!

SE CRET

O RID COPY

aloes alot

BUT MATT VICHY

iL 119 5752) CITE DIRECTOR

19303

TO | JUWAVE

TYPIC AIBIDDY/1

REP: A. JANAVE 1924 IN 5435.1

B. DIRECTOR 18381

C. DIRECTOR 15480

D. WAVE 1479 /N 27532

1. "NEWS REPORTER BROWN" NOTED PARA & REP & REFERS TO DOB

BROWY WIO REPORTEDLY WRITER FOR PANTHER PUBLICATIONS PER REY D.

AMBIDDY/1 REFERENCE TO "NEWS REPORTER BROWN" PROMPTED BY

TOS QUERY OF AMBIDDY/1 FOR INTO ON BOB BROWN OF RET D.

END OF MESSAGE

и ст

c/ww/C/1Q

C/wE/C/RR

«CORDINATINO OUTINAS

SECRET

12=9

-PAGOUCTION

Y DINA THAN

THE TitinG

AUTHENTICATING

---

## Page 135

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

i'i asia?

3453

7 JLLY 1966

÷.:.

C00.68.44

SECRET

7F1

-SE

In mars

in LUCE CRIO COPY

i0 1144552

CITE DIRECTOR

1838!

TO | JAVE

INFO

NE: DAVE 1828 (IN 19826)

WANE ISESS

18 Ful il

FOLL IS TRANSLATION OF INTO OBTAINED FROM AMBIDDY -I RE ARMS SITUATION

IN MIAMI ARRA- HOS FIFTS INTO POSSIBLY RELATED MATERIAL INCLUDED RET:

*CARDING THE ARIS SITUATION IN THE MIAMI ARRA, AHBIDDY-1 HAB

CONPIRITO THAT ACTION GROUPS SUCH AS THE SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF THE

BCAMBRAT, ALPEA-66, COMANDOS-LA, AND LOS PINOS NUEVOS, POSSESS ONLI

THALL QUANTITIES OF ARMS: THE ONLY SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF ARMS IS.

POSERSED BY ROLANDO (SASTERBER) ROJAS.

129. Or 27 JUNE 1966 MASTERRER WENT TO A HOUSE IN MIANI WIEKE 300

IRRARIS WERE STORED, HE WAS ACCOMPANIED BY THO AMERICAN NEWSMEN, ONE

OF WHOM HAS A PHOTOGRAPHER. AT THIS TIME, THE ARNS WERE REMOVED FROM

THE PRENISES BY NASTERAIR'S MEN, WHO VORE HASKS, THS AYERICAN PROTO-

GRAPHER TOOK PHOTOS OF THE REMOVAL OF THE ARMS. THESE ACTIVITIES WERE

LATES BRATED TO SUGENIO CLAUDE BY CARBALIOSA, WHO CCTSIDERS RISES

A FRIEND OF MASTERRER. CLAUDE VAS TOLD OF THESE ACRIVITIES DNTORS HE

(CONT.)"

АПОЦІВТІЄ

#as lented Door

UM ME

81

SECRET

ACTION

•Y OTNIA THAN THE 100I9A

eFFICE

---

## Page 136

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

fas

EP-a64:2

D#:184169841

PAGE 7IO

1000. DIRECTOR

O RID COPY

india crores

CITE DIRECTOR 18381

тоГ

HAD MADE THE STATINENY THAT THE FOLLOWERS OF BATISTA HAVE DONE NOTHING

CONCRETE IN THAT THEY HAVE SPENT MUCH ON PROPAGANLA BUT NOTHING OU

ARMS. THIS ISSUE APPEARS TO COINCIDE WITH THE MATTER OF THE NEWS

REPORTER, BROWN."

•DO PASSID EY HOS TO FBI, STATE, TO, RECONNEND JAMAVE PASS

LOCALLY.

* AND OF MESSAGE

TIE/C/RR

WH/C/CI

WE/Chro

C/WH

свОлоі2?

GEORET

OTHER THAN THE INNING

AUPMESTIGAPIO

---

## Page 137

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

File

Mi:mi, 6 July 1966

PRO/

Dear Jia:

I wish to communicate the following:

I. The magazine "Tridente" will continue to be published

once a month with as many sacrifices as may be necessary.

because it hurts me to see the way the Batistians have

porten hold of public opinion, trying to knit un

anti-american atmosphere and giving the impression in

their transmissions to Cuba that all those in exile think

the same vay they do. I believe this greately harms any

Internal conspiracy which may exist in Cuba.

3. In my next letter I will send you my complete for.

I received a long distance telephone call from Juan Nufes,

Costa Rica. He cold me that Daniel Oduber wanted to speak

with me as soon as possible because he had important things.

to propose to me ard that what he was going to propose

would benefit me.

•Radio Havana continued to attack me unmercifully. It says

that I have 8,000 volunteers in Nicaragua.

(From an infiltration which I have in the Miami Police

(Dade county), it seems that they knew where Massferrer had

the lot of 200 weapons and when they went to capture Elem

& high official (possibly Major Hill) told them that he

had geceived the order not to touch those weapons from the

cino

---

## Page 138

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Maysferrer has mentioned anong his men that those

weapons were gisen to him by the CIA. The name of the

source of the information was omitted (of the policeman)

for his protection, since he is sure that it may harm him.

The source is reliable.

fo I was able to establish contact with my parents through

my cousin, but still know nothing of the contact requested

by me to be

made within Cuba. My parents expect to mahe

an attempt in obtaining asylum at the Mexican Embassy

in Cuba®

I am sending you a resumé of Rene Cancio, who wishes to

Join the Navy of the United. States to go to Viet-Nam

to fight, since he is unable to do anything in Cuba for

the time being. He is our Chief of Naval Operations and

I consider him a great man..

He worked with your company

for a long time.

8. On 28 June I had an interview with Enrique Huertas, who

tried to convince me to join a group of personalities

_! public scandalfor President Johnson at tho

White House. He thinks that the homage which he himself

has prepared for. 9 July at the Cuban Medical Association,

where a greup of personalitios hava ten invited couid

be the beginning of a scandal of international magnitude

(something like a hunger strike in front of the White House

in Washingzon). Ichnson will find himself obliged to do

something of the Cuban problem because the opposition would

use this in their platform.

---

## Page 139

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

He says that Edward kennedy sold him that the Cuban problem

had been definitely shelved by President Johnson. I told

him that in my opinion the Cuban problem was in a "freezer"

but not definitely closed, and that there were other ways

to solve this problem; that in my opinion a Texan may yield

with good manners (President Johnson) but not by force.

That my opinion was that if we resort to violence, the

reaction would be anti-productive. That I was of the

Impression that they were conspiring against the North

American Government in the interior of Cuba, and that this.

I had learned from

sources in Cuba. That a violent

manifestation against the America Government could destroy

all active subversive plans because the Cuban soldiers who

were conspiring would lose their faith in the American

Government. Huertas is very hurt due to the culmination

of the Batistians. In my opinion it is because they have

cut a budget which he had. But if all those who have their

budgets cut were to react that way it would be because

they were badly chosen for the position they hold.

One works for principles of for money.

9. I leave fe. Nicaragua and from there will report what

• I find. When I return I will call;

Regards,

Manolo

---

## Page 140

14-00000

1•94: 0081TENTER/SE

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 141

*74-00000

301268451769783

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(2)

---

## Page 142

14-00000

DISPAT CICA Approved for Release - Rel 4

• 2 90093

Chief of Station, JAVE

=+ FR10 3638

• Cla can accent

Chief, TH Division

Batista Propaganda Activitles in the Minal Arca

ACTON REQUIRED. RIFERENCES

See paragraph 3 belou

1.

In recent conversations

with AMBIDDY/1 at Head-

quarters, he expressed concern over the extent of former

President Fulgencio Batista's publicity/propaganda activities

in the Miand ares and the effect and influence these activities

are having on the large Cuban exile community.

According to

AMBIDDY/1, the most effective propaganda mediums in the Miami

area are directed, controlled

and financed by

Batista

interests and are designed to rebuild Batiata's image.

He

mentioned specifically Patria which da financed by Batiata,

published once weekly and

has a wide free distribution.

In

addition, reference was made to radio station MIA which

AMBIDDY/l cinimed was the principal station which hroadcast

Batista propaganda programs. AMBIDDY/1 commented that the

Entista propaganda was having an effect on the eztles anil,

o he put it, if it continues at its present rate.

in Miami will consider Bntista a "aint" in comprison to

she exiles

Fidel Castro.

2. Headquarters fully recognizes SWAVE's feelings

regarding AKBIDDY/1 and the fact that he is anything but an

unbiased observer. In fairness, however, it should be pointed

out that he did not couple the above observations with a

pitch for approval or finances to conduct propagaad activities

to counteract Batista's offort.

3.

for the record,. Ledgunrtera iu not particularly

interested in seeing

Bntista's ince rebuilt anoncet

Although It is realized that the Station. normally would not

the exiles.

ve Interested in Batista!e activities, It would be appreciated

Il the Station would forward whatever Infornation ia avall-

mble concerning pro-Bitista propaganda in the Miami aren- and,..

11 possible,

an sanerment as to the extent of its influence

on the exile community.

WAG

Distribution:

2 - COB, JIAVE

201-267437

CROES REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND M; TER

UPG# 6081

CLASSIFICATION

BICRET

SATE

04 JUL 1966.

HOS FLE NADER

201-187437

ORIGINATING

Distribution:

- WH/C/ESEC

1 - 201

OFFICE

DC./WH/C

YRT.

3491

COORUINATING

uppie STAR

DATE

OFFICE NAME

WH/C/MO

ABORAT

failedes lion amant.

CIVICE LYMBOL

C/WH/C

VES PREVIOUS BAITION

DAIL

$$0p

RELEASING

roma

8. 8

53

DISPATCH

---

## Page 143

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 144

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 145

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(5)

---

## Page 146

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

(6)

---

## Page 147

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

BOLETIN

A. D. M.

Jalio de 1966

No. 2

Simmon Na. 9 Tercer Piso

ASOCIACION DENTAL MEXICANA

---

## Page 148

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

a melisia

enzimática

. el antiblótico

andinfiematoro

• de máxima

imlor terapéutico

en

odontología

---

## Page 149

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 150

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

-ati

---

## Page 151

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 45

---

## Page 152

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

sure in

---

## Page 153

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 154

14-00000'

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

370031

28 June 1966

ELe

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Operational Meetings with AMBIDDY/1, Washingtoi,

D.C., 22-23 June 1966

1.

AUBIDDY /1 was requested to travel from Miami to

washington, D.c., in a phone call to his residence in

and on 20 Tune.

He arrived in D.C. on the afternoon of

22 June.

We met in his hotel room at the Manger Hay-Adams

Hotel the evening of 22 June and later had dinner together.

A round-up meeting was held at noon time ca 23 June after

which AMBIDDY/1 left for New York City on what he termed

"personal business."

2.

The principal reason for bringing ANBIDDY/1 to

Washington was to check out wich him what equipment

Including arme and ammunition-remained from the ANWORLD

activity hore in the States, what it consisted of, where it

was stored and whether or not any of the equipment had been

disposed of recently or whether there had been any recent

Inquiries made to purchase any of the equipment (this inquiry

wal prompted by JMWAVE 1479). These points were taken up

early in the meeting.

3.

AMBIDDY/l said the only equipment reuaining from

the ANWORLD activity in the U.3. is stored in a small closet

1n a farm near West Palm Beach,

Florida. As near as AMBIDDY/1

could reoall, there are 2-3 rubber boats and 6-8 silent out-

board notura

stored

at the farn nothing else.

In addition

his rop'nad no arms or ammunition either from AMWORLD Or

SAENZ, has 6-8 radios at his home in Miami. AMBIDDY/1

personally stored in the U.S. He has one personal sub-machine

gune in hia home.

To his knowledge there are no sizable

mounts of artle arms or ammunition in the Miami ares, elther

in storego or available for

sa?s.

He clained thee duriag

the Guantanano alert he checked to see how many arms he could

locate in the Miant aren if needed and could locate only

about 60 riflos fron anungst the various exile groups.

AROUP 1

Lucind on a spell

---

## Page 155

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

4.

Panther Publications

AHBIDDY/1 was also queried regarding Bob BrONE, the

reported in JAWAVE 1479.

whether or not Brown's activities had come to his attention

In Miamt or whether Brown had approached him or any of his

representatives to purchase or ask questions about the

purchase of arms.

AHBIDDY/1'g

answer was negative. He

said he did not know Brown and he had never come to his

attention.

5.

AMBIDDY/I was asked on his roturn to Miami to

compile an inventory of the remainder of the AMWORLD equip-

ment in the U.S. He has promised to do this and send the

Inventory to me.

SECAT®

---

## Page 156

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SEGRET

MinIt, 28 June 1966

Deas Jin,

Enroth uy report on the rubjoots vo discnsuod:

Io b1th rospoet to parcala to Cabas

Fren the IS you onn only send medieines. I have the recant enso of

Joté Gonmilos Pulgo lo mallod a prelato al nodieines waleh contrinod anto.

botsos, vitamina, and tranqu1l1sers, and 1t took a month to arrivo in Cuba,

but 1l2 of 1i ronchod the rolativo 1t van addreased to.

Fo Hungua Ihro a packago contining 2 pir divers, 2 underahirta.

& pais ut socks, and one pats chemp ahoed. I ahall take 1t to Menragan

as soon in I an and from there I'11 send by may of Murdoo.

2. De lotter via Spin daling Alba to irito vith Imaible in has alrondy

lest.

3. With respect to the roport on arus in Manl, I havo confited that only

m12 quantitios aro in the hando of aotion groupe nuch sa aão Frento Alpha 66,

Condos l, and "pinos Amavos" (new pines).

In Miant, only Muferrer has thon in alsablo quantitions Die 10 wat

Dagendo Clando, our socurty agenty reports:

Tosterday Rolando Inaferrer showed up et a house in Minnd, toguther with

tro Amordonn neumen, one of than a photographer. In the houre he had about

100 Mirenras. These vespana were taken out lasterrer mos who had their

Incos coverei, vitio the photographer took pirtina = ot the veipora tranalar:

Indo mas told to Digento Claule by Carballoes, who brige alout boing a frio8d

of Masterror, No mid it in respone to a provoentive commi bysagento Csudo

to the effoct thet the attute people epont a lot ol mony on prepaganda

and none on venpons, and that thay wore good at talking miy.

SECRET,

Casistet 1r19 0il99:

679114449 1°9

---

## Page 157

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

2 SECRET

Th1s say colncido with the nowann arous story.

I bare not boen able to find out who is lill and I did confire that 8ing

ans mmi done no noblitration, or parciaso or sale of veBfe:..

Ho The orders have been given Llusro Miranda and Inoconelo th Alonso about

the heason ve talked about.

5. Iho telecominientions equipment Antonto sums has tatta 1a as follows:

3 Collins senders

3 Collins receivers

18 field radiotelegraph seta in mn12 mterproof onses

14 modiun Radio Village trananitter receir:s.

6 Indio VIllage tranmitter sopolvers, anall

6 PRC 10

J marked sadio trunmitters

I artificial respirition kit

16 hand [crankedt] Meid generatore

22 note of agunlung equipment

I radio tube testing kit

• 2 radiocompasses

2 fald telephunes

§ metascopes

I pals flaid glasses

3 mile ari.

Equipment kept in the MAR house

53 bundles of clothings jackota, fetigun pinto and ahirto: raineonts,

'Jaalate, pullovers, dostors gorns, dramura, handlerhiote, sor,

anderahirts, bedapreade, aprons, and quilted tee ahirts.

« enses of medioine

SECRET

---

## Page 158

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

I metal ense containing ridielnes

I care containing frogma outfits

6. I shall list the things I Lave in Monrigan as soon as I can Into the

safe in the enlahouse is lanages, ubere I havo the list.

7, Upon uy rotura to liam (I 'Ind that] the satiota propaganda (artimerloan, i

of courso) has noticembly incronzed, Inculuding an Item about atlata 1a

the Meat Torald, Il: brains of the campaign aro santiago lay and carola

Sigiredo, who soonires 600 dollars a month in addition to the cost of the

mapaper Fulli, of waich he la the director.

The money in dietributed by Fernándes Miranda:

mell velleles are:

In points Patria

constituelonel, published in Meleo and distributed 1n

On radios Program of Juna Andor Rodrigues (he 10 not a Entita

Sellorer but sdnita into his brondonste my mr mon

« atlate viers)

Pegaaa el Santiago Ray, Mirta /lores, Bebo. Cramer,

Hardo Cobag Reyes, Quis Inclin, Grefs Sigfredo

A11 these programs are brondonst over WiTE on lengrave, the only

spaninh language station in Miant which brondonsts political

programs, Meso programs are heard in Caba on longwavo, en the

wester part of the talar..

street

When the thy was slur of any sensible propaganda, unce most of those whe

enried it on were misuidised by the Company and now are employed or

vithout pado, publio serdo in endio fallen into the hando as the pro-

Entasta organs.

It should be rammbernd that the Cabars an exile are wer more nuerous,

SECRET

---

## Page 159

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

and althongh they my not do a decisiro tuten factor tilà rogard to the

Iberation of Orba, they will roturn to cibe once the 18land 18 libererod

and will becons a largo segment of Cuban publie opinion.

It to this me add that many of those "fired" or whose budgora mere ent

are ot in the street demonstrating an anti-S attitude (some are mying that

the IS 18 CeTrying out f0r Fidel the min condition ho sot sos an agroomant

with the ISs doing any vith the organisationa in Mani), vo onn soe hou tragdo

1u the «itention ln ello publie opinior. The pro-Antista people aro

Erying to Imply Chat antlota has nover eut his friends don econontonlly.

wheres the Amrienna are often doing it. (otunlly what Satieta sires,

moopt fer 8. feir, 10 & yu pittane, but hu will keep it unchanged 18 the

modulent et the mony la loyal to him.)

Fer this senses, a even 11 fidente diemppeare, I shall try to encourigo

lonn Dias and Sunlogul to got out a wookly which will the street fron

the hando of Patris and the sitiota propaganda.

Ile 1a all for sou, Sinceraly.

Annallo

SECRET

---

## Page 160

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

28 Pune 1966.

MENORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUbJECT: Operational Meetings with AUBIDDY/l

22-73 боле 1866, W7оl. .6

The following additional matters were discussed at

the above meetings:

Infornation he furnished in letter dated 9 June 1966

concerning possible leads to internal contacza.

We agroud:

Inocencia. Alonso, with whom he is in contact

In Miamt, would be instructed on A/l's return to

write a personal letter to the sister of Comandanto

(El Mocho) Collazo (with whom Alonso allegedly has a

correspondence channel) and request her to have Collamo

write an innocent personal letter to Alonso to determine

11 Collazo has any interest in the contact.

b.

AMBIDDY/l's cousin, Jose Artime, In Miant, has

written to his parents in Cuba who have

contact with

Capitan Jose Ponce DIAZ, son-in-law of Ramiro Valdon.

This was about a week ago.

In the letter Jose asked

his parents to see Ponce DIAZ and see if he would be

willing to initiate a personal letter to establish

direct contact with AMBIDDY/1.

C.

AMBIDDY/l was contacting his persoual friend,

Lazaro MIRANDA in New York City on 23 June and ask

MIRANDA to write to inside contacts to set up corras

pondence between Capitan Fernando VECINO, whom A/1

claims is an old

personal friend, and AMBIDDY/11.

d. A/l said the typewritten report he sent me

frOM SOUICe "ALBA" iS i"ow Dr. Vicente GUTIERASZ, a

lawyer and present member of the legal department of

the Ministry of Interior.

GUTIERREZ IS Willing tO

cooperate and uses the spanish diplomatie pouch te send

reports to him.

AMBIDDY/1 claims QUANTUM/51'g wife,

who is still in Habana,

has SW Instructious and materials

which he sent via the diplomatic pouch sone tim. #2o.

SEGRET

080JP 1

Ireludan iron cutemalla

tomarradina acd

deet sllicaliar:

L

---

## Page 161

14-00006

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

AMBIDDY/l PAS to sel up via correspondence the

passing of lte Sl instructions and material to

CUTIERREL SO De Could commell to direct St

correspondence vit ale.

The MRI publication TRIDENTE.

published enrough July aod if not self-sufficient

(which appeare mie tsas asghly unlikely) will be

discontinued due lo lack of tunds.

mates Pray 1003 1.

SEGRET

L

---

## Page 162

ta-italos

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 163

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 164

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

28 June 1966

MENORANDON fOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Operationnl Meetingwith AHIDDi/l, "aahlagton,

D.C..

22-23 June 1966

ABIDDi/l was sequented to travel from liant to

Ho arrived In D.C. on the afternoon of

3a June.

We met in hia hotel room at the Manger Hay-Adams

Hotel the evening of 32 June and later had dinner together.

A round up neoting »n hold at noon time on 23 June alter

which AKBIDDY/1 left for New York City on what he tormed

"porsonal businens."

The principal remon for bringing AMBIDDY/1 to

Washington an to check out with him what equipment

Inoluding arms and munition- remained from the AMWORLD

netluity here in the

States, what it consiated of, where it

• stored and whether or not any of the equipment had been

dimponed of recently or whother there had been any recent

Inquiries made to purchase any of the equipment (this inquiry

• prompted by JWAVE 1479). These points were taken up

only in the meeting.

AMBIDDY/1 unid the only equipment remining from

CHO ANTORLD notivity in the U.S. la stored in a anall closet

In • farm near Veat Palu Beach, Florida.

As near a AMBIDUI/1

could recall, there are 2-3 rubber boats and f-8 silent out

board motore

stored at the farm - nothing else. In addition

h1n goD, SAINZ, has 6-i radios at his home in Niami. AMBIDDI/1

mald he

had no urns or ammunition either from AlWORLD oF

personally stored in the U.3. "He has one personal mut tahire

gune 1a sia home.

To any knowledge there are so sizabie

mounts of exile arms or ammunition in'the Niamt aron, either

In storare or sunilable for sale.

De clalned thit fring

the Quantanano mlert he checked to see how many ars ha could

loonte in the Miant area 1f needed and could locate only

about 60 r1fles from amongst the various exile sroupe.

ERA jP

declaraticatien

---

## Page 165

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

NEIDT, "s BIBO querted regarding Dob Brown, the

Panther Publications writer reported in JAVE 1479, and

whother or not Brown's activities had cone to him attention

In Miant or whether Brows had approached bin of any of his

representatives to purchase of ask queations abunt the

purchase of arms.

AMBIDDY/l'e answer "as negative.

sald he did not know Brown and he had never come to him

attention.

5. ANBIDDY/1 ur asked on hia retura to Miami to

compile an Inventory of the reminder of the AMORLD equip

mont in the 0.8.

He has promised to do this and send the

inventory to me.

---

## Page 166

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

28. June 1966

AENORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Operational Moetings with AMBIDDY/1

The following adiltional mattere vere discused at

the above meetings:

1.. Information he furnished In lotter datod 9 June 1966

concerning possible lenda to internal contacta.

No agreed:

# .

Inocanel Alonno, with wow ho ie in contact

In Mand, would be instructed on A/l's return to

•rite personl letter to the sister of Comandante

• (El Mocho) Collazo (with whom Alonso allegedly has n

correspondenco channel) and request her to have Collnzo

unite na Innocent personal lotte: to Alonno to determine

11 Collano has any interent in the contact.

ANBIDDY/1's count, Jose Artine, In Miant, bas

weltten to his parente in Cuba who have contact witb

Cayitan Jome Ponce DIAZ, sOl-10-lw of Ranizo Valder.

This was about a week ago.

In the letter Jose asked

hia parente to seo Porce DIAZ and seo 11 le would be

11ling to initiato a personal lotter to establish.

direct contact with AMBIDDY/1:

ANBIDD!/1 was contaoting hin personnl friend,

ImmATO MIRANDA In New York City on 23 June and ask

MIRANDA to write to inside contacta to set up corres

pondence between Capitan Fernando VECINO, whom A/1

©1aipy 18 an Old sorsonal friend, and AMBIDDX/11.

do A/l sald the typewritten report he sont ne

ITOm BOUrCO "ALBA" IN from Dr. Vicente GUTTERREZ, "

Inwyer and present nember of the legal department o1

tho ministay el Interior:

FUTIERREZ 1E IlIng T

cooperate una unos the sparash caplomatic pouch to menc

reporte to his.

AMBIDDY/1 claims QUANTUM/51'6 110,

who 1a still 1n Habans, han Si instructlons sad teria!"

which he sent via the diploutle pouch mone time ago.

85038 1

Eneriod from zatralie

Sugasting

301-247437

---

## Page 167

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

AMBIDD!/1 "aa to set up via correspundence the

panaing of the SI. Instructions and terial to

GUTIERREZ no he could connect to direct su

correspondence with him.

• •

The MRE publication TRIDENT. This will be

published through July and if not sell-sullictent

(which appears more than highly unltholy) will be

discontinued due to lach of fund..

---

## Page 168

14-00000

jis.

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

#=.€

В8:

TH/C

3481

32. 24 JUNE 66

Cases

" MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

8

800:

uHle

RiD COPY

turg: vh

SECRET

25 116 jACITE DIRECTOR

TO JUWAVE

154F0

7

TYPIC AMBIDDY /1

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 13592

B. JANAVS 1479 (IN 37522)

1. IN MEETING 2S JUNE AMBIDDY/1 (A/1) SAID ONLY CEAR LEFT IN

T.S. FROM AMWORLD IS 2-3 RUBBER BOATS AND 6-8 SILENT ONBOARD MOTORS

WHICH STORED SHALE ROOM IN FARM NEAR WEST PALM BEACH. HIS REP, SAENZ,

ALSO HAS 88 RADIOS IN HIS HOME MIAMI: A/1 CLAINS HAS NO SIGNIFICANT

ARIS OR AMMUNITION IN U.S. AND KNOWS OF NO SOURCES MIAMI AREA WIERE

ANY QUANTITY ARMS CAN BE OBTAINED. HE SAID AT TIME GUANTANAMO ALERT.

HE CHECKED RE PURCHASE ARMS MIAMI. AREA IN CASE NEEDED AND COULD ONLY

LOCATE ABOUT 60 RIFLES AMONGST 3 EXILE GROUPS.

3. 1/1 DISCLATHED ANY KNOWLEDGE BOB BEOWN (RET B), SAID HE HAD

NOT BEEN APPROACHED FOR INFO ON ANY MAGAZINE ARTICLES OR FOR INFO RE

PURCHASE OR POSSIBILITY PURCHASE ARMS MIANI.

A/1 TO FURNISE INVENTORY REMAINING ALMORIN GEAE IN U.S. ON

RETURN MIAMI. UPON RECEIPT, HQS WILL FORWARD COPY AND ANY ADDITIONAL

PERTINENT INTO TO WAVE.

7

CONTINUED

MELRABINO OPPICEA

ОРРІСКАВ

25-9

SIC&EI

НОВОСТО ВОТИВ ТРАМ ТИЕ ВНО OPPIER И PROMETE

Beane ace cocaid ere

AUYMENTICATING

OFFICEA

---

## Page 169

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

MESSAGE FORS

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

fli»:

KaY:

LATE:

DIBBEN BY

• FILE RUD

C SABRE

113 SEA

CHILE I

: 5

#ILE bA.

PaSs: DIPECTOR

D RID COPY

saFe: T#

CITE DIRECTOR

15180

PAGE TWO

Ho id'1 GOING NYC ON OWN EVENING 23 JUNE AND PLANS RETURN

MIAMI 24 Or 25 JUNE.

IND OF MESSAGE

c//C/10

LAW"V. BROT

C/WH

ABUSABING OPFICEN

MOIATINA OFFICERS

BICRET.

@DUCTION BE

*ININ THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE

iã

Mitia t

19% 75gan.

AUTMENTICATINA

OFFIGER

---

## Page 170

14-00000

Twi"

"i""

2.3

sir.

do 1110

Ast

53

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

d. i

- in

= Fiat 1.2

0 8318

L. 10 10018

- CS

3110

O DESTROY OUT TO

- 00.9.

2: -9H8228

вто: v8

16. 21 16 Z

CITE DIRECTOR

13030

BE CRET CITE DIRECIOR

PRIORITY

WAVE

-PIC

REF PIRECTOR 12797

CADDITIONAL TRACES BROWN INDICATE HE SUSJECT OF 801-189473.

MERO US ODENVY REPORTS ON SUBJ. FORMERLY WITH CIC US ARRY.

19 163

SO MY ES WAS CAPT USAR AND ATTENDING INFANTRY OFFICERS

HOOL FORT BENNING.

MOST OF REPORTS DATED AND DEAL WITH

27904

BROWN'S ASSOCIATION VARIOUS CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATIONS. SUBA

ALSO REPORTED BE-UPS CORRESPONDENT

PHOTO AVAILABLE. CAN

JOUCK TILE IF DESIRER.

ANORLO OFFICER MOS ADVISED KING'S JOB HAS TO RUN

DONE REMARRING EQUIPMENT:

I MET OR STAREER NAMES PO ZABOTH SPY AND HAY HAVE

SPECTS ZABOTH WORKIE FOR KUBARX-

11=8

SUING OFFICE

---

## Page 171

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

= mE roads

BASEEN : 1.

c; 5 35708€

D RIO COPY

CITE DIRECTOR

130,30

BOTE!

ORIGINATING OFFICER

M. OLEJARZ WH/CARRIOS

COORDIMATINE OFFICER: BO MILLS WHACITO

RELEASINO OFFICIA

• So do WILLIANSON FOR WILLIAN VO BROE CAIND

METIOM BY

Seered

Destant to ant a

THAM PHE 18UING SPFICE i PAGESTIG.

ANTONETIGATIN®

Đ*819.10

---

## Page 172

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

11..

543?

Lò june 1905

--.:

alia-son liat it.

= J:RECTOR

Coler, aris

13592

i 13 iT LICITE DIRECTOR

JAVE

TYPIC AMBIDDY

BETS:

JAWAVE 1479

B. DIRECTOR 12708

C. DIRECTOR 13030

part: 1a

-PLAN INVITE AMBIDDY/I TO HQS FOR MEETING WEEK 20 JUNE

AS SOON AS 'HE RETURNS FROM TRIP 10 NICARAGUA, PRINCIPAL PURPOSS

WILL BE TO TAKE ACTION TO RECOVER WHATEVER ALYORLD EQUIPHENT

BEING HELD BY AMBIDDY/1 IN MARSHOUSES IN FLORIDA.

2. APPRECIATE ANY FURTHER INFO DEVELOPED RE REP A.

: END OF MESSAGE

LLI

CAINE

MY.

BROS

GA61N6 0001

AUTRENPICATINA

SIPIECE

17-10

NETION

SECRET

THaN

THE ISAVING OFFICE I PROMBITEO

---

## Page 173

14-00000

-- CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

CONTIVATIONOS

SECAII

said ba bas no further tubda to pay Arrizuriora aod bou that

LaDLe! QUICER 16 NO lOSEr lA pOSAI 'ITIzUrIELA DUVIONALY

tor. no officlal entree lo too present goveroneat.

MbIDDI-I at the writer's request rechecked with

Arolaurieta rega-ding his surces of information in Costi

Rica and specifically bis unidentified Deserration of the

Commaiat Party noted in parakrapt 3 of reference B. ANBIDDI!

thes reported that Arrizuriela bad the following four prineipal

mources of 1nform tion in Costa Ries with whom ho had

mmintatued direct contact.

• Infiltratod in the Preo Conte

Bican movement

• Stadent • Infiltrated into

the Youth Section Of the Com n101

Party

- farmer - chantfour - infiltrated Into

farm section of the C

•..

"Chepe" - worker in Puerto Limos

Infiltrated Anto

the CP la Perto Limo.

and Atlantie cort

There aro no Identifimble bedquarters trnoos on any of there

four persons.

wn the

1. 0f. Poference 8.

Tarlete from an unoened

_al who

work in Penito Linos.

In other words the asaumption in tint

panned the Information to the

erry to Arrinuriet In 8e= Jose.

Imfortion on the PLl as through Arizurieta (reference D)

no longer be available. AMBIDDI] professes to be a parsonal

triond o1 loberto Indria; Secretary to the former premident

of Cost Rica and •* L

who la conneted with

the Instituto Inetonni de Vivienda Urbana (INVU), Conta Blen

Imming Agency. He unid that the former will conti

to ford hin necome to activitien of the se called UlI

Corm coup and the Intter in his contret in the 1lmerei

AamDyl was told during thege two noting that

mARK and no interent in his intaining any "Intelligenoo

covere," In Contral.or wouth Anorton and could not make

any fundo avnilable to hin to support such sctlvities..: For

the Intertion of addsessees AHBaDY/1 has been receiving

" monthly payment of $5,000 from KUHIRK mince Cetober 1968.

Thin noney an allegedly being umed as support for dependents

and combers of AlOud.

Thin mun 1n being cut brok to $3,000

monthly footive 1 June 1960 and will cradunily be cut

bnok further in the futupe until eliminated:

With this Icon

01 Kunds AHHIDDY/1 w111 obviounly have to reduce hin travely

and other notivitten in latin Amarion:

todderer

GLAONPICAYIOIN

B-Be

Carming lied automa

rishi, lin salien

• CONTINALD

---

## Page 174

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

ELLINGE FORN

* da

so. Edibitionn

it =

2 848

c. WHERE NO COPY

15 21 03 Z CITE DIRECTOR.

BICRET CITE DIRECTOR

PRICRITY WAVE

TiP te

DIA 130JO

1311006-46

HES MANAVE 1973(37522)

PArO PRELIHINARY MOS TRACES SUBJECTS REF AS FOLLONS, BOB

miR 1359

MHONE PROBABLY YES ROBERT N. BROWN AKA RAYMOND NO BROVN.

OOFMOXEESPORE MARCH I AOUSSED SUBA GRADUATE STUDENT UNIVERSITY

"COLORADO. " WAS INTRAESTED 26 JULY MOVEMENT AND THE STUDENTS I

POI FREE CUBA ORDAMIZATION ON CU CAMPUS. VISITED. CUBA SUMMER

AND TWICE SINCE, OSTENSIBLY TOR PURPOSE OF CONDUGZING

INTERUIENS WITH HOPE HE COULD WRITE AND SELL BIG SICRY TO

NEWSPAPERS AND MAGAZINES TO ESTABLISH NAME FOR MINSELF. AS

WRITER. SUBJ FREQUENTLY STATED HE SYMPATRETIG TO OPPRESSED

•PEOPLE DE CUBA AND VAS FORMERLY PRO-CASTRO. NOW ISIS GLAIMS

122904

CASSRO AND GRADES MA DID KUON IN COUNTER- REVOLUTIONARY

RACTIVITTES TO EXTENT OF AIDING REFUGEES AND OFFERIBE CUBAN

PEOPLE SUCH OTHER MELP AS WAS LEGALLY POSSIBLE. STATED HE

OCT JULIAN HOROAN ON ONE OF MIS TRIPS CUES AND WOULR HAVE

did ter

NO DY OTHIN, THAN TAN ABUINE OPPICH I PROMIE.

---

## Page 175

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

it ta rain i water"

.. +

was!

Ital @188l

flutt a star

Papa PARRELO

OR COPY

-•*.

.

PAGE Z

CITE DIRECTOR

ILPED MIN IN VITHIN HIS POWER. SUBJ STATED MIS INTEREST IN

CUBAN PTOPLE CONTINUES AND ME NOPES SEE OPPRESSION STAMPED

PADI A DIRECTORSECHET

OUTA QNE ROBERE AUGUSTUS BROWN, SA ALSO POSSIBLY SDEM CITEO

COTAVI REPORT MAY EA AS VAS, CITIZEM UHO IN CUBA AS GUIRT OR

DIMORO IT ELLIAN JORGAN. PESO CITED AS STRONG-ARM TYPE GRE

JOR TOPPOLOS DAN 2639 JUNE 60 REPORTED ROBERT MCCORMICH AND

SOBERS AUBUSTUS BROWN IN AS HAVING BEEN SENT BY WILLIAN

DONNA TECT CUBA TO MIANE ON OR AJOUT 26 MAY EE TO OBTAIN

¡NAL POL CHARLTE "POTATOIS" PAPPAS, AND TO REMAIN 8W HIAHS:

UNZIL FURTHER NOTICE. FOR FURTHER TRACES SUSU SEE UPG 3962,

oct 6s.

CRECKIN@ BROWN FURTHER AÑD IF ANY PERTINENT TRACES,

UTAL CANS PRIOR C.O.D. 16 JUNE.

NO. IDEN TRACES HILL AND NO FURTHER TRACES KING.

VAGUEST STATION CONTINUE MONITOR AMMORLD ACTIVITIES TO

DETERHINE I BROUI INTO REFERS TO AMBIDDY/I WARENOUSE AND IF

CURA ACTING NO ASKUT, FOR SALE THIS BEAR OF OTHER WEAPONS

40a90 8 44m 2814

12707

#SECRET

fire abd

---

## Page 176

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Caste .

LOAd U1894610

Docomor. З естья то 200.

COON FIRECTOR

Calm:

O RID COPY

PAGE 3

CITE DIRECTOR

SUGGEST STATION ALERY KULANP TO BROWN'S ACTIVITIES AND

CAUTION MULANP AND KULOOK TO PLAY ANY APPROACH BY BROWN IN

LOU KEY: DO NOS RPT KOT TAKE ANY INITIATIVE TO COMTAGI BROWS

OR TO ATTENT TO DISCOURAGE PUBLICATION STOPY.

BICRIT

12707

Pause

10T:

ORICIUATINA OFFICER

So VILLIASON DC/WH/C

COORDINATINR OFFICER

do MOUGHAN COWH/C/RR/OS

Do HILLS CANNIC/MO

fo GRIFFEN WH/C/RR

RELEASING OFFICER

TO FLORES FOR WILLIAM VO. BROE C/WHD

THAN THE MIUIG OFFICE IS PASHISITES.

---

## Page 177

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

D. UNCLASSIFIED

D & FIDE

AL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

DO SECRET

FROM

IH/C/CICS/

Amori

10 June 66

DAmE

C/IH/C/CICS

C/0/WH

CI/LIA

RIO/AN

1 4 JUN 1966

2851

ASTRACT

SECRET

CONFIGENTIAL

Дко.

15 JUN 1966

TERNAL

ONLY

201-267437

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 178

• CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

15 JUN 1966

Director

Joderal Burea of Inventigat10s:

Attentions

Mr. Bo d. Papich

F2O0

Doputy Direstor fer Plan

SUUJICT 8 O MII00O MRILA CAbrerA o ROVUlO MIn 111000 MIJIA

lovelo • Cabrers

DUCA frOm OLIbOStO HAVARIO I., To la a resident of

Ban Podro Aulo, Honduras. "You ill sote that the 8panlnh

version of the letter Incin punctuation: bover, in the

trmintion so havo aisempted to me the letter rendablo.

23M3E

eires isso on yesteras.

Amoney ernes en MIlA indiente that he van bern

In travelled from the U..E.. €e

Coln In 1008 and mde at leant two other trip to Cuba

from Meatoo in Arch 1008.

No addition Interantion 1n

avaslablo..

36:

Lotter

÷ 10 June 1966

DDP/VE/C/CICS/A Amori: mak

Distribution:

Orie & 1 - addressee

1 - BID

1 - CLILIA

CI/REA

WH/C/RR/RE

Originator

WH/C/CICS

Based on:

File no :

201-267437

IS COPY

SECRET

Eaches: 1n0 astonate

babitastigallen

201-247437

---

## Page 179

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

248 04

8048188118

1-ee.0t

air. 1040

$1.0 Dea.

BINDED MESSAGE

Coolas cools

SECRET 1=

MIT AFTED

Hansen

27 wake

ILL NR, DRI, MACI, EXOUR, DCITACERAL ADE, ADDP, SSLEE, SSlDO,I

@DO BITED

40

Time

01202D

15 J:06:: 37522

ST GRAY 15900C CITE INVAVE 1979

DIRECTOR

Dia 13552

PAUL BETHEL EXICUTIVE SECRETARY CITIZENS COMMITTEE

TOR À TREE GUBA MAS CONTACTED LOCAL XULCON OFFICE REP VITH

OLLOWING STORY

BOB BROUN URITER FOR PANTHER PUBLICATIONS,

BOULDER COLORADO, PREPARING SERIES OF ARTICLES FOR

SATURDAY EVENING POST OR LOOK MAGAZINE WHICH INCLUDE STORY

LINE ALLEBIND THAT YUEARY LEAPONS.

AND EQUIPHENT STORED IN

KAREHOUSE BEING

SOLD TO VARIOUS BUYERS IN U.S.

B. • BROUN STATED HE IN CONTACT WITH AN FNU HILL.

WHO ACTING AS UNDERCOVER AGENT FOR UNIDENIIFIED COMPANY

ENGAGED IH SALE, THESE EAPONS AND EQUIPMENT.

= .

BITHEL STATED THAT HE SOUNSELLED BROWN TO DISCUSS

PARA ONE INFO WITH KUBANK FRIOT TAKING ANY FURTHER ACTION

"!:.

DUL AOVERSE EFFECT THIS INTO WOULD HAVE ON INTEL

i C: +549-196-998-9950

COMMUNITY ACCORDING BETHEL, DROWN STATEr HE WOULD CONTACT

BETHEL LATER AND MAXE ARRANGEMENTS DISCUSS INFO WITH KUBARK

REP®

is Janet

SECRET

---

## Page 180

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

PAGE 2 JRAVE IAT9 SECRET

SECRET

SO MAVE RECEIVED ASOVE INTO FRE LOCAL ALLOOR LATE:

AFTERNOO: IS JUNE. FROM INITIAL CHECKS WIIM STATION CASE

OTFICER UHO MONITOR AFFORLO ASTIVITY, ESLIEVE BRON INTO

REFERS SO ARMLOGY I VARIMOUSE LOCATIO IN MIALENI ARIA.

ACCORDINE AMLILAGIO, THIS WAREHGUSE SONIGINS EQUIPRIAT

RETURNED TO U.S. SY HY SANTA MARIA FOLLOWING CLOSING DOWN

OF MONKEY POINT CAMP® EQUIPMENT CONNISTS OF UOT BEAR, BOAT

MOTORB, RAFTS, UNIFORMS AND BULLDOZERS BUT NO WEAPONS.

ME: NO IDENTITIABLE TRACES ENU MILLO STATION MAS 201

FILE FILLIAN KENNETH (KINSO GODFREY 6281-742343) WHO MAY BE

IDESTIFIABLE VITH ANU HILL: PERTINENT INTO KING FOLLOWSE

• DOB I MARCH 19. ARLINGTON TEXAS.

CURRENT LOCAL RESIDENCE SES6 N+ FOURTM

TERRACE MIAMI.

Go. UPBA 13294, 81 DECEMBER EJ LISTS KIND AS

BUSINESS ASSOCIATE ANVORLD/2.

• 1800

FEBRUARY. 6S REPORTS INCIDENT.

TRYPLVING THO AMVOLD VESSELS SEEKING REFÜGE SHAN ISLAND

FOLLOWING ATTACK AGAINST SOUTH COAST OF CUBA.. GREV MEMBERS

REQUESTED SUAN TELAND PERSONNEL CONTACT OR VILLIAM MING MIAMS

SECRET

---

## Page 181

F"Di

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

PAGE S JHEAVE 1479

PHONE NUMBER. NE 9-5029 VHO VOULD GUARANTES PAYMENT FOR

TUEL, YATER AND FOOD. ESTATION COMMENIS LOCAL 66 DIRECTORY

LISTS A VILLIAM M KING WIIM ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBER

NOTED ABOVE

3. MULDOX HAS BEEN ASKED TO MAVE BETMEL SUGGEST TO

AROUN THAY ME CONTAGE LOCAL XULOOK OFFICE, KULOÕR VILL

OBTAIN ADDITIONAL DETAILS TROY DISCUSSIONS WITH BROWN AND

MILE STALL BROWN UNTIL TURTHE? GUIDANCE OBTAINED FROM NAVE.

6 FENCUZSTANT INTO AVAILÃBLE MOS UNZEN MAY CLARITY 'AROUNd

ACTIVITY AND IDENTITY INU MILLO

SICILI

SECRET

---

## Page 182

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Calal of Starton, caravE

Cases, th

TYPSCARSPANT TapOS SPOCCA DS AMBIDUT-8

IN TOCHANTON DO TONION tRO tAPO SOT POOSIDLO UNO ON tOO ANTULAT

• Plono ndetoo loodgurter motar to tape 10 considere

mil 1s, men 18 vall to broodcast and facility to Do 000

T80971 cabarosperat

Encludad trous artematie

dentassificallar

Iqo Dintribution

I-WH/C/EBIC

I-WH/C/CA/PP

War - 60

SECRET

WH/C/CA/PP

1 I Juip 1066

C/H/C/CA/PP

CAR/C/CA

18-298-2? 9 JUN19G6

2001

701-267437

ARTIME-DrESA,

---

## Page 183

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

4....

• June 1968

THORANDNI FOR THE RECORD

ВОВУЕСТ:

ADIDD!-1 Finamelal Agrooment

1o DurIng the course of the mooting with AbIDDY-l

In Miant on 3A May, no vent over in conniderable detail

the dispostion that be la makine of the 1s, 000 monthly

payment

which he bam

been receduiar from the Agency minod

Iate 1965.

Am AMBIDDI-1 ban indiented in bio accountin

atements, ho claimed that $2,000 ol thia monoy wan belg

t to Spala wh

te

1t was forwarded by diplomatie pouch

Jaine Ca

the Spaniah officer stationed in the

alch Emba

By In Havana. Fe sald Caldeville, In tura,

mened this money over to Enil1o LuIsr

raja, who distrivateo

1 te various people inuide Cuba who otther and rolativen

Imprisonod for anti-Castro activitien or had beo recuted.

The finl rocipients of the money "ho allegedly received 1t frou

11110 LarraJa voro set Identified by AMBIDDI-!.

In polation to the balance of the 85,000 valen

mount. to 19,000, ANBIDDI-1 furnished a breakdown of

do no he clem receive the money in Florida,

mind incarn forard It to spectfic Individualn or lanillen

Immide Caba.. A cop of this breakdown 1s attached.

AmIDT-! was told on A lay that effective I June

the "stipond" to persons inuide Cuba who vere alledgedly

reelving it via tbo Sparinh Sbasay and Lusarraja would be

forminatos, und that effective with him June payment the amount

would be out from 85, 000 to 83,000.

DC/M/

Attachmento

SPOTAT

---

## Page 184

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 185

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 186

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 187

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

June 66

Jose POlE: Dias 10 non a lajo, and hus ben reported as holding this rarl

since 15ódo le u about ility five yeara old dal a cashat veteran

al Mananda derracios and the lanatio

He was Chief of tbe Depertment

of fablte Order da 2i Tillas Provisice in 1962, The sole assessment

on him describes POIT as "m11 Inom for hia Caremist activitios.

In I966 ho reportedly was & nember of the C.P. Frovinetal Courdttee

1n Pinar del Too

Cosendante Hane ("'focho») GARCIA COllARO 10 Dot belloved te hate an activa

command. Is also 1a in his Idd thirties and loot both loge and one

arn in an accidental bomb explosion in 1957e I la a veteran of the

Revolution and tought at Playa Giron. # ma reportedly put under

houne arrest in lovember of laut your, but has been seen in pablie

as recently as lnot montlo One report atates that the remon for

bis arrest la Implication in a plot to kill Fidel.

@pitun Furnando VECIO (MlB0 Inom as BESINOS) Alogret 1a masoniod ail e

Dordous and rezl ecnented young mn (niao in his nid- thirties) from

a monithy family in suntiago do Cablo I ME l treasurer 18 Idolallo

In 1962. In 1962/3 he me President of the Studentel Rosociation In

the Department al Inaturtslal Ingineering ot the li Of Invans. Io bani

tom reperted as ins of tha lenders of the Undon 0f Commiet Louth

(1966), and 1n 1963 man a mmber of the Executilto Surear of the

Bitersity Connittee of the Vou.l. lis was doscotbed as a member of

the internationi FoB.U. in 196l, In I96l, and 1966 1t ma reperted

that TEGIO al Sidi of Stratagio Heapona fos dia Guin Ano Il 1565

be tried to organise a cours en this subjeet for students of the

Inveralty of lavanio Alao in 1965, he una desoribed an & member of

she Departant of Teahntonl Investigetlere: 1y le mended to Merla

Bother Perr. Minabero, who 10 the sinter of the eurrent Misd

Mortary In Palliates.

---

## Page 188

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

IR ANAIG E. ALVARIZ: TORNO

AD. Fostal 53-922

Masdeo 17, D.I.

June 66

Boonune nurt saurday the l8th I will be traveling via Avianen fron Maxico

to Paname, shore I Will stay one wook at the Panams Mllton. Then I a

returning to Marleo, but will spend tro days in Costa Plen and taro 1m

a sirader.

I my posalbly be in Menrugun 2 days, but that 18 st121 not finl.

Isperts Iron an employee of the Sriss kmbassy in Marico bad 1t

gosterday that the arias Ambasendor, who has kept a "elose" raintionship

with ridel, will be tranaferred from lavana. According to the employee

the ronson 1e the fooling of a tuninent event in Cuba and the wint to

ropinen that person In order to rollove Suitierland of posidble comitments

with antro.

On the neue Of R. (Schik1], of Morgus, no would like 11 applionblo

to clarsty waaip roozultment can be started.

In garde

'(Amaro?]

PS We have started contact with the Tito people.

Saverasia, sad

SEGRET

---

## Page 189

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

. *9 :.

---

## Page 190

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 191

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECKET

Chick with

jol.

Insy brother,

About the transfor of merchandise to i

•† ionessola, I bave

Sound out what 1t uns by a1s. In several trips.

is know that the porte

who pilotod it lenst two of the flights 15 nanod GARGIOLA end 16 a yoUng

incoRn sho until a for woeks ago vorted los ?sischal Centonl of Mardoo,

In the Vallejo Intustrial Development [Cal, Industrial Vallejo), Mexico, DeF:

Do lo the son u of an offiour or a chial of the port of Verneris. This

pestlema is also the one uho had to do with the affair of ny ahip which entered

Vurnors londed with armaments and in a damnged condition and loft. the port

again the following un day to trunsfer the arments to another ship that

we witing outalde the port. his coincided with the news pf aval :.

mntire off Vernerus last month.

Ihis Marionn mned Gargiola has benn in agreement with the husband of

first

Mary Enquirol, the singer. No 18 8 Cubes, whore name they do not rooull, be

• 1n In the Monterroy aros, and his first sno cas be determined in a for days.

It seems that Mike Cutterres, the TV producer of CiR Envana who

works here with Tolorioentre Maxienna at ATo, Chapultepoo, 1a 10 on the

affair.

According to Garglola, ho saw men of the MRR (armbanda) on his tro

tripe to Venesuola. 'He left the fan fine where he was mployed for

the se

sepestoà aboctors dio to lp sot1v1t195. I:aNy RoTe iRierullot le 200lod;

pleane write to the postaffice ber.

Regards,

SECRET

Mustaded from asttrat.e

L

---

## Page 192

- CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

i see

---

## Page 193

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

i***

tot

---

## Page 194

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

Sas Dosto sulo, Hondures contral Anarten

March 14, 1088

Mneel Artine

MPaCtOr Of the Cuban HavOlußlomary Front 1a lallo

Those ten linen Are 10 "1nh Jes all Binto of person!

happinene and at the sino tino preons la the bonorablo

poolton which yo, hold in your land, le destroy definitely

the Cuba of the bloodthirty Coummint Covernment os 11del

chetro.

To contleme ! 'ant to mke note of the folloulne: In thin

Ideolony, 1a addi:ton they poal lhoir son to soro in the

Commalat Governont of Havan In lares 1001.

Tula damseren

lovelo and nooordiny to our dala no 1a. Ming Bruined 1a

#fierent branches of botage and farmerlan.

o to • ma o

tmont confidence of the Boothirty entos of the C-8, Banan

Valdom.

le 1a liainon a betup International Commandoso mad

upton sountrten in louth and (antral Anories, which Inelude

Intemmla, Hondaro, Pasams, Vosemala, Colombia, Pera

and Dollule, siving migranta do beiny about the ill

•$ Amperate countrten of Amrien and to trint then under

tho crare of nocow, Pakias ned Flora! le has a pesenore

WIth a Afterest muo, last sane and anttoanilty. En an

no truvoled to Commint semiurten met as pramo, loneer

Tim trim to Amrica aro Id thrownh Konlen, a centry wiet

Into our Amries, Tons 1'. Artlme entertand the my 1t 18.

Moro ds mono ure important informises for you.

ey order

•1 Ilteos lojia, Aovolo • Cabrar, mo l0 located An Havana,

taree o1 nia Pirat countma, Hers, Oroyek und darten Anya

Calliants, =33 shore obeyian the enter of Illceo trem

Haven to nie this tIp.

Tus woney for those crap and other

penis tA this aulate (nio) man gent by their famous

Sarut some Flust tree Bavan,

no almo lavo Inferation

SECRET

---

## Page 195

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

SECRET

that correspondence le most fros lavana to the three of

they, out it 11101 to 1nd tee me men

and antite.

They have orders from their first cousin Illero to ratel

all the nctivisten of the Contral Intelleno bency (CLA)

and the FbI.

They alno live ordars Iron tbeir couls. to

O1 111600 no that x11 Will tenla under myutery and Once

more is tool of U.S. authorities, bocuune 11 the Centra

Intolligence Money dincovere that they are related to

allos they ould be deported fron the U.!., and be vould

leno the control "nica ho enjoys at the moment with them.

The lottorm thnt they send to direetly to ijer inul Castro,

fer hun 1nt0r t10n.

Oneyes and imrim Amya Caber unde a complete leol

1 almo want

to doll you that on animo Anya Cabrer received ordere

tron Iliceo to transfer to Lon Ameln the refund to set:

viin at thin consulato of lan Podro sula.

whore she we

mod to sot 18 sinco mo la a ronident bere.

According

I have, "he vont to Tamese to 5et

vin, unles murproned the torten Sabony BES, 6401

alrondy had the data tant hos vino vas boing proceseolo.

Tun

thnt the Commatete me all thels

To vita loser to secret they dare and

mornmen vita the enter they recesto.

I mino mut so toll you the; anothor coumin of Illere to

nas to transfor aer rosiconey. so Lon Angelon

no ulator of the other thros and bor ano 1m Lila. Any

Olora Y de lopes, Iis mies for 11r9t couin of the

immorons Intertioni Commint who will be stationed an

ho Will, entinging the surt of the CI, all of then servin

91ty, gain mming a foni of ine Amrican Commi.

$€ pale Do sorrest i. Artime, that the Ameriese Consulate

In thin City be orderod to censol the vien of Mre. Llla my.

Cnitora Y de Lope, bocnune she 16 a oneny of the U....

no professon an Extre Contimental Ideology, and

SECRET

---

## Page 196

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

¿ SECHET

Im nocking the dontruction. of the Great American Denocracy.

These three Intersational Conmntts called Mora, Onagúa

and Marina Anaya Cabrera should be deported fir.a los Anceles.

Stato of Callfornts, bocause of their damily ties and

correspondence with thelr cousin Eliceo Mojia hobelo O

Cabrari to lo serving the Coamnlit Goverament of Havans,

Do that they can be returned to their country or origlo,

"am Podiro Bals, Honduras.

I a confident that you will know how to tale care of talm

lotter, bocame it is banne on the truth and nothing but thi

Ruth.

I an sure that once there three Interatioml Co-untuto

aro captured thay will deny all Innily ties w1th Eliceo dejle

motele O Cabrers.

Thin la true because they have ordere

tron the Commint Mojia Sobolo to deny any fantly relation

a po

I almo vant to tell you a nephew of slicos della Fobelo

O Cabrera la traveline to Cuba.

Flo cano to Holcos inste Moanion,

and ho studion in the Institute of this City.

Ellceo cal?.ed

1m to Invars, Holcol vill travel to Cuba la Septenber of $h11

unf, coording to the Informelon 1 save.. Leicel in the sephe

• theno Commniut vomen which I have mentioned in thin letter.

Tro of the nirend reside in the U.S.A.. the otaer one

do mont to lenvo this elty to los Angeles.

Ont: in contaet with the CIA to deport Iron Lon Angelen then

the Commaint, and to order the Amrican Conmul in then

alty to canoel the vies of Mru. Illa Annya Y de Lopes.

SECRET

---

## Page 197

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 198

14-00000

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

## Page 199

14-00000

PERSONAL

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

Uttka

BEPUBLICA DE HONDURAS

Б

18 SOBS

BR: Manuel Artine

Apartado Postal 1144

Miant I-Plorida

18U8A

CORREO AEREO

VIA AIRMALL

---

## Page 200

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

---

