# 104-10256-10273

## Page 1

104-10256-10273

6 July 1972

Tal

I634.

MENORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

The Acting Barcctor

Fedoral Bureau of Investigation

: Information Provided the Federal Bureau

of Investigation Pegarding the Watergate

Incident

1.

As a

• Iesult of our conversation of 5 July, I would

like

to summarize the information which has been provided to

you by the Agency

in menorandun forn (attention Mr. Arnold

Parian) since the

first

series of menoranda

on the subject

beginning 20 Junc.

Or 20 June separate memorandums were sent to you

concerning Messrs. Frank Inthony Sturgis, Eugenio Polando

Martinez

Carcaga.

bernard . barker and virgilio Conzales.

The papers detailed available infornation on the subjects.

We said

that Mr. Frank Anthony Stureis had never been re-

cruited by the

Agency,

that he was a soldier of fortune but

that he

had been

associated with an Agency contact, Mr.

Eugenio Polando Martinez Careaga, since the carly sixties.

Their rolationship was built on a mutual interest in Cuban

exile activities.

"ir. Martincz was Iccruited in January 1961

and has perforaed a variety of tasks for the Ageacy on Cubar

matters up until June of this year. He has bech on a $100.00

a month retainer since 1969.

Mr. Martinez is a business

associate of Hi. Bernard Barker in a real estate firm-in Miani.

AT. Barker has a

regular contact of the Federal Eureau of

Investigation in Cuba when turned over to the Agency in mid-

1959.

He was used as a source of information in Cuba until

evacuated

in carly 1960.

He was hired by the Agency in 1960

for work among exile groups and has terminated by the Agercy

on 31 July 1966.

No Agency contact has been maintained with

him since that date.

À thorough investigation of our files:

at Headquarters and by our Station in Miani has failed to

turn up any infornation regarding Mr. Gonzales' connection

with any Agency personnel or Agoncy-sponsored activities..

З5R2П!:3

8: 9027235

AND METROOS TANGIVES

aSe E220R818

OF E. €. 1002.85.

216.100

Ats(1), (2), 6 or 0) lies a so

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3.

In two memoranda on 21 June we informed you of our

relationship with the Robert R. Jullen Company and the

Gencral Foods Corporation.

The utilization of the Robert R.

Mullen Company dates back to June 1963.

Mr. dullon has

provided certain sensitive cover support oversens for Agency

coployees.

In addition, ir. sullen

was involved in the

formation of

the Cuban Freedom Committee - an activity

terminated several years ago.

15 of 1 day 1970 Mr. Everette

Howard Hunt, who has just retired from the agency,

vecane a

legitinate employee of ir. Huller.

In July 1971 Ar. liunt

inforned the Agency he had been assigned to the white liouse

Staff but continued to devote part of his time to the Mullen

Company.

The Gencral Foods Corporation is a client of tho

Mullen Company.

_ Over the yoars sixteen

officials of Coneral Foods have been Cicared on certain aspects

of our interests.

They have not been informed of our use of

the Robert R. 'lullen Company. Also on 21 June, in response to

a verbal roquest

•of 20 June, ve inforned you that a check of our

records disclosed no record

of Agency involvement with the

Association of National Advertisers or the words "CIr"

4. In a separate nemorandium on 21 June we advised you

that a

review of the duties and assignments of fir. Janes

NcCord provided no indication that he was anvolved in Curan

matters and that he was not assigned to the bay of Pigs

operation.

Fe

stated, horever, that he might have developed

personal acquaintances which

are not recorded in official.

personnel and

security records.

He have no infornation

regarding tir. McCord's activities with Cuban exiles since his

retirement. -le indicated in the same menorandun that as ay.

Agency enployee, Mr. lunt was involved in operational activitles

relating to Latin American countries and vas lown to have has

some ties to Mr. Barker:

In a separate memorandus of 27 June

arrarding ir. junt,

we inforned you about the issuance of the

Edward V. Hanilton, to Mr. Hunt on 30 September 1960.

This

alias was suusequently used by fir. lunt for several

drivers licenses.

le provided additional information on

this subject in a memorandum of 5 July and also reported that

there is no information in our files to the effect that nix.

Hunt was issued a Social Security Card or Insurance Policy

bearing the name Edward J. or Edward Josoph Hamilton.

---

## Page 3

Further, a menorandan vas sent

to you on 27 June

regarding peripheral Agency contact with an ex-employce

of

tro

James

Mccord, one fir, Juan Rigoberto Ruiz Viliczas.

Nir.

Ruiz was used by this Agency as a iranslator during the

period June 1969 i0 June 1971.

He has had no affiliation

with the Agency since that tine other than

a personal

relationship with a

current Agoncy employce.

One additional

memorandum was provided you on 5 July regarding a Mr. Poss

Ward

Lanbert who worked for

the Agency as

3 Contract

Employse

from January 1965 until nis retirenent

on & August 1971.

Chir

Office of Personncl referred Mr. Lanbert to AcCord Associates

for employnent upon

retirenent.

He submitted a fornal

application but decided io accept employment elserhere.

•Is addition to the above cited memoranda and several

lesser

items of information provided telephonically to vr.

Arnold L. Parhan of your Alexandria office, the Director of

Central

Intellizence intormed you orally on 27 June regardiny

infornation available to us on r. Manuel Cgarilo Daguerre, a

Mexican national who has officos located in the

as the Banco Intornacional of sexico City. In short, 'ir.

Manuel Dgarrio Daguerre has not had any operational contacts

intero son icon

sane building

with this Agency.

On 28 June tie Director of Central

Intelligence also inforned you orally regarding our intormation

cöncerning i. Kennel naTTy venlocts.

Tho last recorded

contact of the Agency with ir. Dahlborg was in lay 1961.

7. Our office of Security is in frequent contact with

members of your staff in connection witl: the investigations

you are conducting.

Tho above information is for your use

only and should not be dissoninated outside your Burcau..

Vernon A. Walters

Lieutenant Gencral V.S.A.

Acting Director

---

