# 104-10183-10048

## Page 1

104-10183-10048.

13 November 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Meeting wit

ANKLIF

-1 (Telephone N.Y. C. JU 6-4622)

DATE AND PLACE: 1800-1930

$ November 1962, Hotel Taft

New York City

PRESENT: Subject and

(allas Brestheia)

BACKGROUND:

was set on to determine whether

candidate to fill a temporary slot

Jas a PA working more or less exclusively

to attempt to penetrate the local Cuban diplomatic installation.

Since

Thas to be out of town for an

indefinite period,

detafled to make the above determination.

The meting

was set by phone on the above date.

OPERATIONAL:

2.

The main point of the meeting was settled quickly.

Subject Indicated that he would be willing to take a three or

sour month trip to Latin America for us, and to perform what-

ever operational tasks ve felt he would

assign to him.

The

only qualification:

This

trip could not be taken until after

the firat of the year.

Subject stated that though the jewelry

business

is presently in its pre holiday doldrums. this situa-

tion would change in about ton daysto one of intense activity.

He simply could not afford to take extensive time out at this

juncturo.. I am sure Subject was giving a straight line, and

thus made

no attempt to pressure him, particularly since we

had no pressing spocifies to put him to work akainst. I haked

ra mars go a son, no one elen to pan pnon1020908

uba, presently managor of the Carrera liTton.

Tsesungece

man bar

smart, dedicated fu ants-Communish.

averred an la how he thougher

cho doings of most

Cubana 1n

l'nog poturn to loadquarie

o 1 learned

Tron Marollun that

Tin already in pouch niel

but

16-23

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2 .

Subject said that he is to make a four day trip to

Columbia within the coming fortnight and would be happy to

tackle any reasonable task we might ask of him.

He agreed

of that it would deal meter for to introduce see

I advised that ve might want him to ald us in some

such fashion, but that I could

think of mothing at the moment.

I asked him to give a ring as soon as his travel plans were firm.

over the

Embassy in Ottawa to find out if

Subject was to arrange o reting in Montreal or to day some ic

returning.

COMMUNICATIONS:

THOMPSON and

Subject will continue to write tol

phone

me alias BREITHEIM on 737-8294.

Jalias

03

TFW/FI

TIPV

---

