# 104-10330-10074

## Page 1

1704-10330-100741

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

19 January 1996

Mr. David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records

Review Board

600 E Street,

NW

Washington, DC

20530

Dear David:

This is in response to your letter of December 15, 1995.

in which you asked for a status report on CIA's Review of JFK

Records. The following is keyed to the questions in your

letter.

Question (1)

The CIA's JFK assassination records consist primarily of

documents sequestered by the House Select Committee on

Assassinations at the conclusion of its investigation. This

material consists of approximately 320,000 pages. There are

no publicly available lists or indices of these records.

Question (2)

Approximately 227,000 pages of the JFK records have been

processed and released

to the National Archives.

Currently,

we are conducting a second review of this material.

We

expect this effort to result in a significant increase in the

number of documents being released in full.

Unprocessed records include about 30,000 pages of a

microfilm version of the Oswald 201 file, approximately

11,000 pages of Office of Personnel files, and over 43,000

pages of material not related to the JFK assassination.

bulk of the remaining material consists of third agency

documents.

The time required to complete the processing

will depend on the outcome of discussions with

the Board.

The

Comral Intelligence Agene Mailingsan D6: 20505 = 6031351-2098 Fess 003. 213-8313

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. David G. Marwell

Question (3)

Approximately 18 linear

feet of employee working files

which are potentially responsive to the JFK Act have been

located. However, the material in these boxes appears to be

duplicative of that found in the sequestered files.

Sincerely,

Percena

John F. Pereira

---

