# 104-10180-10138

## Page 1

104-10180-10138/-

EMOM.

IND: SAS

4200 dinin. BIde.

ROOM

AC/TSD/ TA

T3D/SR3

ROUTINE AND A CORD SHEE

CATE

RECENTS

ICER

23

-

CONNENTS

PRORITY

3.

$.

•RI/DP

1308

L

9.

TSD/SRS

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

1%.., ..!

18.

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

MAME

BY PHONE

OFFICE

Ralph Sechafer

N8/4/51

Coordinated by phone

3.3 J1: 1530

RECORD

ENCLOSURE

DATE NICRUFILAEO

PTAt

ABSTRACTE

INDEX

FILE NUMBER

202

DOCUMENT MATT

PRIORITY

AUTMENCATING OFFICER

TITLE

C/TSD/SAB

RELEASING

OfFAER

MANGE

TITLE

NC/TSD/TA

DOCUMENT NUMBER

103F: -3523

1

---

## Page 2

•-$;

mos

: Chier of statlon, lavara

3011

Chief, KURIOT

AQUATIC/Operational

Si Supplies atron l

23 JUN 192:

MARILY FOR INOL GIS

TO NOTICE NAARES

LY GNUI:912 00:611

: TAVA - 1299, 17 June 1900

1. The St supplies'

ind instructions recded to establich tuc-any sw

correspondence with AMitErl ore trensniited hereith.

bie rcalize that sone a

the Instruction fors aul supplie: which arc beins transmitted are dupticates

of those sent to the Station in support of other merutions. Porever, 11 ordcr

to t'acilitate the handling of coch operation. the gupplies

for each are

turnished as a complete unit.

This will preclude the need for berrowing fron

one agent's supplies to outfit another.

2.

ANERE) will write to

"the Cuse O'ficer

49

8277

638

1438

A aupply of the developer intertel, in quantities sufficient for

raining purposed, eccorpenieu this dispatch.

3. According to the Wil operational plan, sw messages written by aruel

vill be nulled to accormodation addresses in various latin American countries

In accordance with that, fullot will proutde the pproprinte

sith the mterials secessary for developing the operctioral messages.

Ariotond will develop

"he sw messaged he, recetves by means of 1s

de should be lasted!

for that purpose.

recommended that the ogect le told to hide his developer matcriols in e nofe

This should not present nuch se n problen vecnuse

We do not generily recorrend tilat

Even in cases where the Sw inuredtent

49

wal thus there would be a dences of hering on unwitting parson

use them by accident (0ff the Cuse Officer feels that for operational reasona

It lo desirable l

they should only be kept in

Jottle which is clearly mried

Accordine to tie operatioml plau, tie Jaze to cocht I: beesages will

be prepared for the face divialon ly kalot et l'eudquarters.

Tie Area Divic.oc

will pouch the di pessages!

100 the corror-iate

Field Station Por

1La11100.

• ile Ansarl Case O'sieer siuull fallinrize hinselr with h

comany ini cupplles und listructiors before eny etterpt 1s sade to trelo si

Issue supplies to the agesi.

ixperience has shows

that 1t 10 curicable to plen

for two or thrce chort (2 hour) roeut trialn; sessions scheduled over e perind

of days, rather ten to sitempt to cris tle training leto ouc loue session.

?. Swelal atention should be bira to plantes the rover correspondelse.

It 13 usually recoceried thei the ogunc use

his 3w meisages to the Setion, thereuy

completely

mos hlo si reporte once, they cre in the tell chrinel. 2qrhis requires that the

correnponsence be fiction, un entails & certain cuount a a81lt on the per

of arrelin fabricatini acuerreucly

724le have fous

prrequently provides the agent with

considerable patiolutcal recourance durine the course of the operation.

8. The cover/

CSE PIECES CRIPON.

OSIOLATE.

COSMICHEN

SACRET

PRIORITY

3RCт2 - 2523

11 09 3

(airy)

---

## Page 3

isa,

SECRET

- 3523

The cover cortcopondence muse 188 so tig

specs. to be difierint ficu

ase sul of tull enlimily foull la the c'rael ding used.

It shouid coitnin

a larntic: which could be vioved it suspicions in cry jo

The cxtorarl

copies of the cortestonloice mat do tracert 1n a11 aspocts 1i° the si 18 to

be crocted lo provide liny level or security.

O. He kive foin that 1he

enilnoly on the care -ich which it Is used.

Fleese stress the nued for eare

cal ariting tochniques in your aent traisini sessiors.

The follouire, suypiles did tastruction are; transeitted in support oi

the ice operation:

49

dor Marla Form

which describes in detail how la

Ered so demonstrate ine pelaciples ga

Indeled l

Jis to se

Titire. The develorent

rescess sor this system can be carried out in the egent's presence.

the densoustrat 10gg

d. Instruction

aritiag.

Jahich vill develop

/deseribing the developent of the

• 99

The one labeled!

is to be used in traintag and 1s

be retaided by the Station.

are to be issued to the agent.

the agent should not be allowed

199

J49

Instruction

derelopment?

specific instructions for the

99

Ato be used so develoy practice and real

messages written

which he should use to practice his development technique.

St sessages he, receivea. Tuo or three

Jinien Mored vice use to develor the

1 should be used

in training f

should be dasued to the

M 1o lestruction

"instructiors for the use of

%. One copy of the "Station Maintenance of Sti Supplies form.

09

1o Miscellancous items such as

iteas generally usefal for si processing.

11. You will note thet to different sinds of

submitted with the supplier.

Ore la labelad

be used in the practice session only.

It should be used to demonstrate l

19 Th1s should

This system can be developed in the arent's M

constitute the agent's operational

Ahns beca labeled

Aiser the acent has mstered the use of thei

Given ce opportunity to vrite with the l

Aphe should be

Afit 1s very important

that the Case Orficer have the chence to critique the 'erent's St' uritioo

techalque with the actual systen which the sgent will use.

Rowever, the agent

should pos/

3523

3 F:

"RET

---

## Page 4

99

sikid. not be allowedl

no tie a got out to ta do than ga Vior lafor art,

or he should just discuss 1t verbally.

99

12. The Station should retain the

and the rest of the supplies.

Please Heir 19 mind that i:

nesdiges and vorking materinia should be traied as classiried.

13°

needed.

Plense do not hesicate to requent edditionni help fron l

99

"that the

in that

avrloped

SCARRA F. MARESTI:

Enclosured: (1 Dox & 1 Erry)

Supples & Instructions

2. Supplies

22 June 1960

Distribution:

3 - COS, Havana, u/encis o/8

RI, w/o encle

TSD/1AD

w/o enclo

(2922) : ke

03

PeRH

1a8y 336

som

ІН РВТУОЗВ КРОТО

BJ 81 R7A A10 014

MACH ANS OSSALICTI

BECRET

23 3: 4C

Er :

• 3523

Fast no®

3 or 3

9/120

---

