# 104-10102-10154

## Page 1

104-10102-10154

SECRET

27 April 1977

RETURNTO GIA

Background Use Out

Do Alet Reproduce

SUBJECT : Victor Espinosa Hernandez

REFERENCE:

SSC Final

Report (Book V), Pages 78, 79,

and 105 - (A Cuban Exile)

1. Subject arrived in the United States

on 2 May 1960. He was

granted a POA on 18 October 1960 for participation in operations

against the Cuban regime.

He was terminated on 20 March 1961 as a

malcontent.

un Jes Angeter

In July 1963, Subjectwas involved with the purchase and

caching of 2400 pounds of dynamite,

100 pounds of practice bombs and

other related material, and with plotting to bomb the Shell Oil Com-

pany and other Cuban

targets.

Since the FBI felt that the aerial at-

tack on Cuba had been effectively thwarted by seizure of the munitions

and impounding of the aircraft, they contemplated no criminal action

at that time against Subject and his cohorts.

On 2 May 1965, Subject contacted an INS officer who, on the

basis of information in

Subject's story which appeared to, affect U.s.

security, notified the FBI.

On the same day (2 May 4965), Subject

interviewed by the FBI and CIA was notified on 3 May 4965

contacted Subject on 4 Mayin the New York field office of the FBI.

The gist of Subject's story was that he was aware that AMLASH and

others had been planning a coup which involved the assassination of

that ClA had been involved with AMLASH and others

plotting.

DIRECTOR 17510, Headquarters advised the

1751 9 June 1965 cable from Headguarters tol

Stations that

"it evident that security of our Cuban ops in some cases and our own

compartmentation not all that we would desire.

Urge therefore that

Stations

concerned continue take such steps as feasible to improve se-

201- File

Book of the ssc Final Report

The Ageney does not have copies of the FBI reports cited ir

6. The information supplied by subjects adds little, if anything,

to the overall SSC report.

It simply shows that the SSC was reviewing

every lead.

E2, IMPDET

CL BY 004645

, SECRETI

13/89

---

