# 104-10176-10031

## Page 1

104-10176-10031

RETURN TO CIA

Parie nund Use Only

sproguce

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 30 i une 52

RESTRECTIONS: Officer designations should be used in so "TO" column.

Under each comment a line shord be drawn across steet

and each comment numbered to serrespond with the nur ser in the "TO" esiumn.

Each efficer should initia! (check mark insuff sunt)

before further routing.

This Pring and Record Shee. should be retired to Regisiry.

FROM:

NO:5 12-6.805

WE/ITI

DATE 24 June 53

TO

ROOM

NO

DATE

RIC'D

OFFICERS

INITIALS

CONCHENTI

Scehater

24,399

124

25,553

Doerflinger

Eg lary

26 1655

<ó ross

2.79

1y26

16

79.

RI/SC /Matter

S*C

"F./ITI

84,

220}

30, 895

Who Eage

3017

2=0

PI

F9816490 51-10

SECRET

71.1

DATE 2 JUL 1953

7/800

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Samir- si.

windon

1

2...

90s

7P0Ms

Commissioner

Inni ration asd latsralization Servico

Attentler: K. Farori F. Farrell

Dopaty Director, 2018

Referenco 1s sade to jour request for a nu chack- inter

for any derorator, inforaatin contained in tho files a this leercy

ooncerning Rolazio Arcadio HIS TiER I SOJAS.

The falloring 13 a samary of the razy renarts amallable

concorning one Polindo P2S?2et2, ho 1s probably lientical with the

Bubfoot of your request.

A usuly ruliablo source reported on 15 Jaly 1919 thst

Ires the looal Cormist Party in 1945.

In the 1917 attimat to crarthrey the Dordnican Governert, lat too

0 past 1n a s1r11z attart in 1:49, mainly because of norsena

Ifferences which aross fran the 1947 vnture. Ho retained gree

interest, however, In the overcrow of the Dominican and Heragan

@overments.

Asother urally rellatle source renortod en 7 tsust 1950

that Congressiana rolendo PiER, a former moater al the Cormiat

Partis, was knowa to Lay exoressed great adiration for the 72001

Coverisent 's sociel legtalation, an It resulted in the sarovsent

of the liviag conditicas of the sorldag classes.

So A fairi- saliable source poported on 10 may 1031 that

Rolando KITERRE obtained noney f'on the P.ROll roverment. MUSteRRER

nade a trip to 15 atías severil gora ago, and sines that tise has

morted the P 221 governat in lila publioation, fiong en Cula.

It wa: bellored this Mis?:? i ver working for PION, udth the vior

es artending Pinit's sobero of Influonce to Vonezuela sad the Domindcan

Repuillo, and rectually to the sentral Anerion counties.

HI COPY

- 1. EME

201-49669-1

---

## Page 3

-..

Securily Intormatisg

= 2

6. In Ostober 1951 a usually rollaila soures gusorted that

Rolando MiSSTRI. fought in the Spanish Cloll War under the cormand

of Valentin GINaliz (1] Comealno).

YA? POR defended CONCALE In

the controversy oncerning the latter in the Cuban crass during

GliALize vialt to Dule 1r 1251.

7. Arother fairly reliable source mortod 0s 7 Outobar 1552

that, accoring to informs in obtered by tar Nati: nel Executive

Bourd of the Partido Soclalista Foruler (PS?, Cutra Exermist Party),

Rolanto M.SP.R'ag together with some lending of the amed forces

uho wished to lanse a rilitary ilotator his in Cars, tad a forco of

abut two or thres Andred anal run to, si a rivey sinal, truld

attact the mollee sations, seizo tho radio statt i, ari staço a

street rict aralist the corrment.

Wrile carrying ort this operation

the revolutionists would kill several sollochon and mit

torment on call at ==i unt me for reat so condies such acte,

and to decree violent sorrisals sonire, tha Partido Rerolucimarlo

Subano (FRO, Autestico), tha Partido dol Meblo Guben (PRC, Ortodoxo),

an particularly against the tommists.

CS DB-6805

pog. Le

G:R3:d

21. June 1953

T17-1212

ENE-118

T:H-1562

TXH-1782

WH/III

Distribation:

RI

RG

STC

STC/ICE

NH/10D

---

