# 104-10217-10120

## Page 1

104-10217-10120

Date

ROUTING AND TRANSMIITAL SUP

le (rame, onice symbol, roem number

wilding, Agency / Post)

Initiate

Dete

DC/LACO

C/LACO Reports

C/ LAMP

LACO/SP HOPKINS (for 201 file)

Action

Approval

As Requested

Circulat»

Commert

Coordination

For Clearance

For Correction

For Your Information

Investigate

Justin

¿Note and Retum

Per Conversation

Prepare Reply

See Me

"Stynature

REMARKS

Keith,

Reports from Wade received, via Bill S.

Want you to see this right away,

particularly info in para 1. Para 3 info also

of interest.

ALVAREZ is defector DCD had my

name connected with.

Other source(s) have made

this same comment about ALVAREZ.

Shall forward

to you other reports of interest.

Chris. H.

Ci - vil

paral info be

Passed I fBI?

• Not us this form as a RECORD of apprivals, concurrences, disposal

learances, and similar actior

FROde: (Name, ors symdol Asency (Pose)

Room No. - Big.

3 D 5331

C. Hopkins LACO/SP

Phone No.

1819

4048-108

#U.S.GeP.O. 1 977-248-53013050

OPTIONAL FORM 48 (Rev, 7-76)

PrACT 182-31.306

...

i..

---

## Page 2

éi.?

28 May 1979

(201-275949)

Meno for the Record

TO 8 MS. Willlam Sturbitts

FROM:

SUBJECT: Reinol GONZALEZ Voniales - Comments on Interview

In May 1979 in Miani.

I. This Subject was interviewed on the occasionof both our

visits to Miani and we spent at least some 6 hours with him and

still haven't finished. He told us on the occasion

of the last

visit that he.still.wants to tell. un about some things going

•on in the Cuban exile conmnisty. in Miani, that sone Cubans ar®*

ibuying arus and planning actions against CASTRO,-eto. He wants to

tell us, he said, thall

we'll know and won't be

surprised but he

jenies all part for himself in any such illegal actions. He does

not believe it possible, given internal and external conditions

sow prevailing, to overthion CASTRO anytime soon but says if it

were nossible,

he would be the first to start preparations for

thet purpose. When we next go to Miami we will listen to what

additional he has to saye

2. Subject was for the wiiter the most interesting

and perhaps

he most productive of the people we were assigned to interview.

"his guy is cut fron a different mold from the other 7. He is

ough, intelligent, cunning, shred", lacking in formal education,

sut a real toughin-fighter who knows what he wants and knows how

•o go about it. He is, t00, I think, a real opportunist, and this

ay explain in part his reason forsputting on the & Nov 61 TV.

rogram. I had the felling repeatedly that hè was not really

oming clean on many of our questions, but the only to questions.

o which he reacted noticeably were the ones about the TV prograss

ind Octavío:BARROS2, These swo visibly upset him :eventho I feel

e knew of thought they would be thrown at him and he had his

nswers prepared. More about the TV program and BARPOSO later.

3. This man started out as the fecretary-ganeral of the Union

§ Christain Workers (UTC), at one point belonged to the ARD( an

ssociation of young denocratic people), the MRP for a while, etc.

^ 1959 he was named foreign relations

secretary of the Confederation

I Cuban Workers (CTC), however, at the election of officers in late

959 CASIRO showed up

and imposed his slate, a Communist slate for

he most part on the congress. Subject was required to turn over

Copy I L

he soir messa

---

## Page 3

∞ 20

his post as foreign relations secretary to orton ALVAREZ, lle

and ALVAREZ had been on opposite ends politically in previous

years, when ALVAREZ was working at the Chase Manhattan. Bank in

Havana and representing the bank workers union, but they had

put aside their differences to work together against BATISTA®

Then, when CASTRO came along

he propelled ALVAREZ to the post in

the CIC to which Subject had

democratically been chosen. The

imposition of CASTRO's slate took place at a CIC congress in Nov

1960• Me claims that he has never

seen ALVAREZ since the business

of turning

over his files to ALVAREZ was done in 1960. He knows

of course that ALVAREZ went on to other jobs, eventually to the

Cuban Embassy in Madrid, and eventually defected to the US. He

Claims to have no use for ALVAREz, he's a dedicated Commie and he

'wouldn't trust lin.

AMCOAX sirll en jail

4, Di. Elena Mederos - is the aunt of PUJAL Mederos. She is

currently working with the Human Hights Commission In Washington,

DC. Subject says that some 30 years ago when he knew her pretty

well she was denocratic or leftist in her politics but very left

ist in her economics . He described her

as a revolutionary of a

50It, with lots of prestige in Cuba in those days.

5. So far as he's a ma re there mas only one Octavio BARROSO SO

the one you're talking about is the same one

known to him, the

same one shot in late 1961 or early 1962, he's not sertain exactly

when. He claims

that PUJAL and BARROSO were captured at the same

time

or at about the same ines and that it

might have been

us who reported to G=2 on PidAr

but

in any case he(subject) didn'g

do it. There were others in jail at thas time, also, he says, who

could have told G-2 about BARROSO"s Ievolutionary activities. As:

stated,

that question, as did the one on the IV program, visibly

upset him so I'n not at all sure that we got the truth.

6. Subject was arrested on ll October 1961 in a raid on the

Cesar Odio Farms, along with a number of other people. On 30 Septaber

1961 a woman belonging

to his unit, Dalia JORGE, was arrested,

allegedly placing a bomb in a company there in Havana called CIA.

Subject was carrying docurentation in alias but almost immediately

he was confronted with Dalia who Identified him to 2. But, the

most irportant euddence is the fact that over the next few days

and weeks those known to Dalia in that organization were arrested;

those not known to her were not. Although alledgedly arrested

planting a bomb, she was almost immediately released and was coon

walking the street. A few months later Dalia had married a lieutenant.

In G2. She later divorced the lieutenant ( whose name Subjeet could

not come up with) and then married CaLlos RUBIERA, & nephew of

Vicente RUBIERA who lives in Miami

Florida and works for the AFLI

CIO.

7• The TV program - why? It was the first such appearance by anyone

arrested that could be called in favor of CASTRO.

The MR. had a pact anongst themselves, he clains, which stated

5 Madfid is 198don ALVAREZ de la Campa y Sotolongo who dofoctod.to U.S,

---

## Page 4

that anyone captured would not falk for 72 hours, to give those

still free time to change hidding places, etc, then one would be

i pared would not rol

permitied, if forced to, to tell minor things, things it was

thought the G2 might already know.

He was taken to a place referred to as POINT X and stripped

naked. He was interrogaied almost continuously, lights were kept

on and all sorts of threats were made against him. He could hear

in the building the voices of others known to him in the MRP,

among others Fernando Rojas, Fernandez Rivera (now in Caracas),

Roberto Jimenez, Bis.

interrogators were Isidoro MALMIERCA, hOw

Minister of Foreign Helations, but then just a secretary to the

Ministry of Interior. MALMIERCA was assistad at times by Li.

ALFOYSO (fnu) o

apparently an assistant to MALMIESCA, who was nuch

more intelligent and much better trained than MALMIERCA. The

latter did a poor job and got little out of Subject but ALFONSO

did a much better job .

BASE

"After several days he was told that CASTRO himself would visit

him and personally conduct the interrogation. He claims that he

told MALMIERCA that that would do no good for it was CASTRO himself

he helped to teach Subject many years before how to fight the

Connies and prevent their penetration into the labor movement.

As a result, he says,: CASTRO did not come buttRamizo VALDEz did

VALDEZ told him that the decision had already been nade not

shoot hin ( Subject) but that sone or most of the military

section people of his organization (MP) in jail wouldhave to

pay with their lives for what they,

Subject and others of the

MRP had done. The only way he could save then, VALDEZ said, would

be to go on

TV and tell the nation what his organization had been

joing,

tell them how useless resistance to CASTrO was, and at the

time conder the US for its complicity in anti-CASIRO efforts.

Now, subject clains that some of this firted after a fashion into

is own thinking and size up of the state of things. He claims that

1) he had decided some time earlier that internal resistance of the

sort tle MRP was dorducting was useless, and 2) that it would be

etter to leave the country and fight from abroad, and 3) that he

ad proposed just such a move at a large meeting of MP leaders

eld just a few days before his capture. Hokever, the student and

orkers representatives at that meeting did not

120ES

support such a

ove so no action was taken, then came his own arreste

azooka from a roon overlooking a public plana where

• appear on & October 1961, and VALDEZ had found out about these

lans, through Dalia, Subject assumes. Anyway, Subject claims

hat three people were to have gone up to the room, which had been

roperly prepared and an escape route worked out,

just prior to

e ceremony. Of the three, one

guy, Antonio VALADELO Vaciana got

old feet and took off for the States instead. Raul VENIA Del

azo was there but did not fire the weapon pame he could

for some reason

not

nown to

subject,

and the

man. whose

not

enember, apparently did not go up

to the room either.

---

## Page 5

Well, believing that surk =esistanca activities sere in

fact futile and believing that CASTRO would in fact shoot

his men, and believing that he could all alone determire

what was to be

said on TV he decided that to accept the offer

was the correct thing to do. He could not have the blood of

others on his hand, he said, unless something very worthwhile

waS being

accomplished. He profussed to VALDEZ, however, that he

had no authority all by himself to make that decis:on

and asked

to discuss it with three or fow MRP leaders there in jail with

him. VALDEZ agreed that he could discuss it withffernando RUJAS

but with no one else, and that was done. RUJAS reluctantly

approved.

He wrote the presentation he was to give on TV and he siad

no substantive changes were made by the Cubans. He constructed

it, he said, to l) tell them as much as possible what they

wanted tohear without doing any real harm, 2) protect those

still at large, and 3) give away as little sensitive information

as possible. He said he realized fully what he was doing, that

he would do it açain if caught in the same situation, and that

he takes full responsibility now as then for what he

said and still feels it was the only logical think he could

do. Again, this was not a subject he enjoyed discussing; he appear

in fact a bit erbarassed by it all, but he knew it would be

coming at some point.

8. Why didn't the Cubans sclease him affer the ransom was paid

then? Because he would not sign a paper in effect saying he was

sorry and asking CASIRO*s forgiveness. He neet with Alonso PUJOL"

and three Ga military officers to discuss the relea se and the

conditions of the release one day after the ransom had been paid,

when he refused the Ge2's conditions PUJOL took a piece of

paper out and scribbled on it an agreenent, which said Subject

would obligate hinself not to become involved again in anti-

CASTRO activities if released, and he agreed to sign that. In

fact, he did sign it. PuJOL then handed it to the military

officess

they said the Cuban lovt could not accept it. It was after

that that the money was reutined.

9. How did he get out when he did? Through the efforts of Gabriel.

'GARCIA Marquez, a Mexican novelist and reporter in Mexico Lityrand:

Fa good friend of CASIKO and other high Cuban leaders and of Subject.

¡and his wife. Subect's wife and GARCIA's wife are particularly

close, as are GARCIA's wife and Subject's children.

10. Subject's wife had contacted many people, promient people in

s release but had had no luck until

the GARCIA's went to work"on it. In early November (he thinks) of

1977 GARCIA and wife visited Cuba and srent sometine witl CASTRO.

GARCIA's wife allegedly told CASTRO that she had one important

favor to ask of him, to release a good firend of theirs who had by

then held for many years. CASTRO promised to do it immediately.

to see what'

ot literary

In Prenio

our. He tapped of

---

## Page 6

GARCIA that he was sorry that he had not been able to release

Subject when promised but that there were many in the top

echelon of gout that were opposed to his release and that it

took hin some tine to bring them

around. However, he called

or spoke to ABRANTES, who was with him at that time, and told

him to find Subject and have him brought to G-2 offices the

next morning at 1000 hours. That was done and in fact a l2

colonel drove Subject to the airport, obtained his passport,

etc, and he set off at 1700 hours on

12 December in the

same plane with GAlCIA, The G2 colonel who drove him tc

the airport was Colonel Manuel BLANCO

• who was generally.

referred to a Maio. Several of our other subjects had contact

with

this guy and most found him reasonable, intelligent and

very military.

11."GONZALES, who spoke only in Spanish, although understands

some English

and undoubtedly speaks

sore, is a member of the

committee which helped to negotiate the release of political

prisoners with CASTRO, and he will continue to do all in his

porer, he says, to accon plish that objective. He has been

to Janadea once to neggtiate with Cuban authorities, and once

to Havana. My team member will cover those activities in his

report.

12. Subject is working for himself and has been for sonetime;

he

is in the used clothes business, and expects to rent a place

for his business on 8th street, Sw, in the 5000 block, 1

believe, at an early date. He expects to cater pretty much

to Latin Americans traveling to the US, hopefully mostly

Venezuelans and Brazilians for they are the ones with the

most spending

a good many friends

that he'll get a lot of business from vatin America. He has

a friend who is prepared to make a $10,000 loan, and a bank

has agreed to finance him to the tune of $20,000 and it'11

take avout 530,000 to s$ock his business adquately. He can

and will get short tere credit fron some of his suppliers but

will probably be limited to 60 to 90 days. He's very optimistic

about the future, appears in good health,.although somewhat over

weight, and his wife works. The works in the office for a Puerto

Nican packing company•

120T

13. Suvbect « as sost appreciative for the offer of a physical

and he knows that he has no maney on escron with

the isenty. Nevertheless, he probably is expecting some finaaneind

compensation for his time in

prison, although this was never

mentioned specifically. Tidbits of info provided by him on people

on the long list, as well as on others and other subjects will

be or has been included in other reports.

---

