# 104-10136-10401

## Page 1

104-10136-10401

SECRET

EVES ONLV

9 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR

Chief, Security Research Staff

SUBJECT

(Conversation with 8 June 1965,

Washington, D.C.)

1. On 8 June 1965, the writer met with Mr. Kennedy at the Hilton

Hotel,

Washington, and had a long discussion with him beginning at'approxi-

mately 1:15 and ending at 5 p.M.:

comments covered a wide

range of matters, but basically they can be broken down into 3 main topics:

(a) His attitude towards the FBI;

(b)

•(c)

windelated

Comments on the Negro Civil Rights Movement, the various

personalities connected with it' future events comected"

and some of Mr. Kennedy's

opinions and theories regarding

with the Civil Rights Movement.

Each of the above will be discussed separately.

Mr. Kennedy's attitude towards the FBI

2. Sometime back, Chief, SRS, decided that it would be advantageous

to have [

I give information, particularly regarding the Civil Rights

Movement, to agents of the FBI in New York City, particularly if this infor-

nation concerned domestic or local events and activities.

Chief, SRS, felt

that it would be a faster means of communication than heretofore used

where-

Formation to either the ted team me

communicated with SRS officers who, in turn, passed the in-

useful.

made it very clear that he did not wish to communi-

cate with FBI agents, that the Civil Rights Movement should be regarded as

an international situation because of the Communist directed infiltration

into the movement, and that he felt in some respects that he was being

"omgraded" by being us lapayce by the mal and not In a higher eeteion

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECKLI

EVES ONIV

of Government.

did not absolutely refuse to cooperate

with the Bureau, he made it obvious that only if there was a matter which

he felt was of interest directly to the Bureau locally, would he furnish

this type of information; otherwise, he would furnish it as he has done

previously or cease altogether.

The writer attempted, more or less unsuc-

cessfully, to discuss jurisdiction with

tained his position that the matter was not one of jurisdiction for the FBI

or any single Government agency, but was one that the Government, including

CIA, should be interested in; namely, the international Communist efforts

at corrupting and seizing the Negro Civil Rights Movement.

unidelated

"ittige:

ĐES CAV

.- 2-

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

E/ES ONLY

•.::

Civil Rights Movement

9. For background information, it is to be recalled that Mr.

Kennedy has long provided information on the Negro Civil Rights Movement

and its various leaders.

_position is one of complete sympathy

with the Negro and the Civil Rights Movement, but holds that only through

legal means and peaceful means should the Negro aims be accomplishea. E

who is a violent anti-Conmunist, has been alarmed at the Communist

movement into the Negro Civil Rights field and the Communist penetration into

the various Negro organizations. He has undeniably done everything in his

capacity to hely the Negro leaders, particularly James FARMER of CORE./

FynC

SECRETI

= 3 -

---

## Page 4

SECRET

EYES ONLY

It is worth noting for the record that I

Jhas been involved with

various Negro leaders since as early as 1934; and he has known a number of

the leaders, on a very close personal basis, since that time.

main concern has been that the highly derogatory

information,

of which he is familiar, concerning Martin Luther KING, Jr.,

will be exposed to the public by the wrong people and at the wrong time

which, in

opinion, will set the Civil Rights Movement back

years and would perhaps give the Communists a chance to either further dis-

rupt it or to seize control of the movement.

I1. To make certain that this report reflects as accurately as

possible the derogatory information on Martin Luther KING, Jr.; here are

three main categories:

(a) Highly derogatory information on sexual abnormalities and

sexual activities which have taken place within the United

States and overseas;

(b) A possible theft of money; and

(c) Association with identified Communist or pro-soviet trpes

on ad intense personal basis,

To further set the background; it should be recalled that several months

ago a very serious dispute erupted between Mr. John Edgar HOOVER and Martin

Luther KING, Jr. At that time James FARMER, head of CORE, received infor-

mation, from an absolutely reliable source, that the FBI had derogatory in-

formation on Martin Luther KING, Jr., that Mr. HOOVER was incensed on attacks

on his agents and the integrity of his organization, and that grave possi-

bilities existed that Mr. HOOVER would turn loose to the public the derog-

atory information which has been presented

above. In turn, l

and at approximately the same

time, FARMER confronted Martin Luther KING, Jr. with the facts. It is suf-

ficient to say that the matter was hushed up by KING visiting HOOVER. A

number of meetings took place between the top Negro leaders and discussions

were held as to what to do about the derogatory information, since obviously

other individuals would know about it. To date, nothing has been done, and

the debate is going on in the top Negro channels at the present time.

EVES ONLY

=4-

-CORET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

EVES GIV

11. With this background in mind, the writer asked 1

_ who

were the top Negro leaders

and what were their

relationships one to another.

Whitney YOUNG of the Urban League

Roy WILKINS of the NAACP

James FARMER Of CORE

1A. PhilLip RANDOLPH, veteran Negro union leader

Allan MORRISON, top Negro editor and journalist in the

United States.

The other leaders of first magnitude that entered the discussion are Martin

Luther KING, Jr. and Harry BELAFONTE, who has been established clearly as

a close and intimate friend of Martin Luther KING, Jr. and whose left wing

background is also known. Some of the lesser Negro leaders will be mentioned

later, but those of the greater strength and opposed to KING are YOuNG,

WILKINS, FARMER, RANDOLPH, and MORRISON. [

tion of rapport

among these leaders by saying flatly that there was co rap-

port at all, that all mistrust and dislike the other, and in certain cases,

there was often antagonism.

stated that the brightest, shrewdest,

and cleverest of all was Roy WILKINS, but a man who had no popular or grass

roots following.

He stated that Whitney YOUNG was a bright Negro, but who

had no following whatsoever in the popular sense, but was making a definite

play to gain power by seeking to be publicly connected with important

individuals both in the Government and out.

describea A. Phillip

RANDOLPH as a controversial old man, possibly becoming senile, who was afraid

to act for fear of damaging his own reputation and who liked to imagine

himself as the "Moses" of the Negro race.

RANDOLPH has some popular follow-

ing, but he is aloof and has not committed himself as intensely as some of

the others.

James FARMER, according to Kennedy, is probably the most sin-

cere and devoted of the leaders, but is naive and has a complete capacity

for saying the wrong thing at the wrong time. FARMIR personally is clean

and he does, in fact, have the grass roots support of the large organization

CORE, which he controls.!

one thaty/faul, but not

Tinsisted that he is law abiding, non-

violent, and a decent individual, but not too politically intelligent.

EVES CHLY

-5-

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

EYES ONLY

12.

stated that for weeks the problem of Martin Luther

KING, Jr. has been discussed between these leaders and that all of them are

aware of the details.

stated that to show the range of con-

nections involved here and the sensitive nature of it, he gave the following

example.

YOUNG to discuss with him this matter.:

He said that a few days ago, he was in the office of whitney

stated that

for the first Iy minutes or so, YOUNG was constantly being called

to the telephone and the conversation was interrupted.

commented that the first two calls that came in were in-

consequential, but he stated that the third call was from the

President of the United States.

I stated that he

listened to two more calls then told YOUNG that either he would

have to quit accepting phone calls or Mr. Kennedy would no longer . -

discuss anything with him.

Whitney YOUNG then told his secretary

to stop the calls, and they discussed the matter.

stated that the conversation was basically his attempting to

get Whitney YOUNG to come to some agreement with the other leaders

on the KING matter by pointing out that Roy WILKINS was in favor

of "dumping" KING, and that he, Whitney YOUNG, hadn't committed

himself to anything.

indicated that this conversation

was not profitable.

Of considerable importance to

was the following.

He was having a conversation with Allan MORRISON, the Negro editor, and

MORRISON said to him that he had received confirmation, in exact detail, of

the derogatory KING story. Further, that the information had come from

Washington from a highly placed official in the Department of Justice, Mr.

who had in turn conveyed the information to a Mr.

also attached to the Department of Justice, who was working in Chicago and

who had given it directly to Allan MORRISON. MORRISON stated that he was

han he and

told that the Washington source had the entire KING file in his office in-

cluding photographs and tapes on Martin Luther KING, Jr.

said

he asked MORRISON if he had done anything about this; and, according to

MORRISON told him that he called a meeting of the top editors

and officials of the Johnson publications (Ebony, etc.) of which he,

MORRISON, is the top editor.

According to MORRISON, he told those present

the story.

After some shocked silence, Mr. JOHNSON said to MORRISON and

those present,

we cannot publish that; and I

I said that MORRISON

told Mr. JOHNSON,

if we don't publish it, it is going to blow up underneath

our noses because

it is certain to come out sooner or later.

EYES ONLY

• - 6=

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SEGRET

EYES CMIY

stated that the details of the KING matter are

definitely known to the editors of the New York Times and the New York

Herald Tribune,

but they will not break the story because they have been

asked not to.

stated presumably by the President.

15. The writer than referred to the

thesis that Martin Luther

KING, Jr. is moving in a way that is indicative that he is being controlled

by the Peking line Communists,

/ The

writer asked

what possible action would the Peking line Commu-

nists take in the KING matter. L

replied by saying that it is

certain to him that the Communists, both the Moscow and the Peking types,

are aware of the Martin Iuther KING, Jr. matter.

_stated as far

as he could figure out, the Peking Communists would handle KING in one of

two ways:

(a) We will permit you to remain head of the Negro movement in

the United States and you may continue to rise in public ac-

claim.

The other Negro leaders have no courage and they

will not expose you.

They are cowards and controlled by

the Capitalist leaders of the United States. You will, how-

ever, remember that we know what the story is and you will

do what you are told. Or

(b) They, themselves, the Peking Conmunists, will expose KING.

and in so doing they will end him, they will everlasting

discredit all the other Negro leaders, and they will then

be in a position to disrupt the Negro movement, cause chaos

and trouble, and possibly gain control of it.

If they ex-

pose KING, they will say to the Press and public media which

they control to the Negro people, that you leaders have be-

trayed you, they knew this story of KING all along and were

cowardly.

They obeyed instructions from their capitalist

leaders.

16.

stated that he is absolutely convinced that the

Peking line Communists are moving ahead of the Moscow Communists, both in

the world area and in the domestic scene. He pointed out

He

stated that there are other indications of the Peking line Communists show-

ing strength, and that there are a number of ways this can be demonstrated

He called attention to the fact that for the last 3 or 4 weeks there has beer

a period of inaction and that none of the Negro leaders, except James FARMER

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET.

EVES CNLY

.?".

of CORE, have been doing anything when they should have been strongly

states that it is his opinion that this is due to th

novement being held in check by Peking line Communists who are demonstratin

and consolidating their strength. He stated further that the "deacons" are

nothing more than small ad hoc groups which the Peking line Communists have

set up as needed and are, in fact, riding on the back of CORE. 1

stated that they are not CORE groups, but are activist Negro advocates of

violence and who are working to disrupt and smear CORE and its leadership.

They are constantly working to convert CORE from a non-violent group into an

action group which would, of course, put CORE in the Peking line.

17. The writer asked!

if there was any indication that he

knew of that would show that the Negro leaders--YOUNG, WILKINS, FARMER,:

RANDOLPH Or MORRISON were going to expose KING.

stated that

there is no such information, that none of them wanted to be responsible for

the exposure, nor could they agree among themselves to do it as a group.

MORRISON, himself, according to

but he could not do this alone and unsupported.

ported. ike to expose stated agation,

stated again,

as he had many times previously, that unless this exposure comes from the

Negro leaders themselves, the attacks on KING will be useless and will end

up only making him perhaps a martyr and would set back the Negro Civil Rights

Movement for years.

18. Toward the end of the conversation,

pointed out that

any examination of the Civil Rights Moverent, at the present time, would show

a clear and concise picture of Communist penetration and activities, namely,

from the Peking line Communists..

said it is well to note that

the war in Vietnam has now been linked to the Civil Rights Movement and,

gradually, the two unrelated areas are being blended together in an all

Communist Party line attack on U.S. policy.

stated that this has

spread confusion into the Negro Civil Rights Movement and has duped many of

the leaders of the movement and caused them to make utterances which are

stupid and certainly unpatriotic.

7 referred to the activities and

statements of A. Phillip RANDOLPH in behalf of the "Refusal to Fight" move-

ment.

further said that the aims of the Communists were

clear in that they wanted to link the Negro leadership and the Negro mass

Civil Rights Movement into a position of anti-government action, and that

the Peking line would be away from the Moscow "peaceful coexistence line"

and would be continuous agitation for violent action and disruption. He

stated that so called leaders like Martin Iuther KING, Jr. and Harry BELA-

FONTE have very clearly started blending the Negro Civil Rights Movement into

SIES ONLY

SECRET

- 8-

---

## Page 9

SECRETI

GIES ONY

a merger with their attacks on the government policy in Vietnam and, even to

a lesser degree, into attacks on government policy in the Dominican

Republic.

predicted that more and more of this will appear as the summer

goes along.

He stated that among the most important leaders of the movement,

he felt that only Allan MORRISON had a thorough understanding of the problem,

that FARMER in a vague way understood the problem, but was not acute enough

to clearly understand it and combat it. He said WIIKINS and Whitney YOUNG

probably understood this matter, but they are too busy attempting to create

a good image of themselves in the public eye to be willing to get down and

fight this penetration in an all out manner.

stated that he would be continuously in touch with

either Chief,

SRS or the writer

he obtained information of interest.

detent

ED 02V

SECRET.

- 9 -

---

