# 104-10326-10011

## Page 1

104-10326-10011

MAENO: 98-1247758

SECRET

-SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE :

SECRET

FRP=

STAFF

CONF: LA

LIMITED,

MDSX

INFO: LA/ DEFLT, LA

ODPD, RYBAT, FILE, C/LA

• (2/₽)

LA/MXSTB, LADORECORD,

98

1247758

ASP

TOT:

PAGE 001

231646Z APR

98

DIRECTOR 784515

SECRET

STAFF

TO :

PRIORITY

2316462 DIRECTOR 784515

FROM: LIMITED DISSEM LAI

INFO LA/SA, LAI

STUGS:

WNINTEL RYBAT

* SUBJECT:

ISSUE

FURTHER ON

LITAMIL/ 9

<JEK ASSASSINATION>REVIEW BOARD

(REF :

26721 98 0975333

TEXT:

1.

COB 4 MAY.

ACTION REQUIRED:

PLS PROVIDE INPUT TO BELOW ISSUES BY

APPRECIATE REF INFORMATION.

CURRENT PERSONAL STATUS OF

LITAMIE/° (T/3) IS GERMANE TO NEAR TERM REQUIRED INFORMATION

(BELEASE DECISIONS WITHIN THE<JFK>REVIEW PROCESS.

TO BE TO PROTECT FORMER ASSETS TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE UNDER

*RIGOROUS LEGALLY MANDATED<JEK>RELEASE CRITERIA.

-ITOS TRUE NAME HAS ALREADY APPEARED IN BOOK "OSWALD AND THE

CIA "BY {JOHN NEWMAN,/ BASED ON OFFICIAL MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY

INADVERTENTLY RELEASED.

IN ATTEMPT TO LIMIT FURTHER RELEASE OF

IDENTIFYING INFORMATION WITHIN THE OFFICIAL DECLASSIFICATION

PROGRAM.

PUBLIC DOMAIN RE(I/9

•AND/OR PUBIICOTESBASED ON WHAT IS ALREADY IN THE

REF) RE FOLLOWING.

ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WHICH

ABLE TO PROVIDE WILL ASSIST IN JUSTIFYING DENIAL OF FURTHER

IDENTIFYING INFORMATION AT THIS TIME

(REALIZE

UNABLE TO ADDRESS OR OBTAIN INFO ON SOME OF THE ISSUES, BUT WOULD

APPRECIATE WHATEVER YOU CAN COME

WITH, PARTICULARLY

RESPECT TO ITEMS B,C, AND E.)

A.

CUBA).

ANY KNOWN{L/ FAMILY/RELATIVES CURRENTLY IN MEXICO OR

LIKELY IMPACT ON L/O AND/OR

OPERATIONS RESULTING

C.

ANY PAST OR PRESENT

9, COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY WHICH COULD

SECRET

1

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

RYBAT Z

MHENO):

98-1247758

-SENSIND :

BE ADVERSLY AFFECTED.

D.

PROBABLE RECEIPT OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT PENSION_BY 179

REQUEST

THOUGHTS ON THE POSSIBILITY OF

RE-ESTABLISHING CONTACT WITH 0/32

JUDGMENT IF OUTSIDE SOURCES CAN SAFELY BE

QUERIED WITHOUT DRAWING UNTOWARD INTEREST IN-E-9.

~55 CELLE: NONE. CT BY: 07I2052T EL-REASON: I-5(€), DECI

ONT KI, DRV FROM :

HUM 4-82.

CABLETYPE:

GECO STAFF 4.0.1.>

RELNO:

DQRELS0100945919

ORIG:

LIAl

47758) i AUTH: C/LA/

VLAI

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE:

2

=

SECRET

---

