# 104-10196-10042

## Page 1

(2700-96101-701

CONFIDENTIAL

- SE

eFEt

=.8$

""".

missini by ancacheriscd darecas.

corona called "abisical socurity."

Tro Silio do Caraul crasi

maci con lis cuciokarod =

il 350d:

Jo"

C.1019

states or chisical soruity

Sangius

In sho jut, it nás buon reintárcio sarg to cino lines (oramicationaliy

Faunicoh decurity prevented

Sc*===

to incorale. mi cici covanted those mio listare: to salis

po tiro elcotrical traroniicione con indosstamin? tre intoration.

Fiads

aiancos mo met ir. noth dioiii.

¿or sannio, tuero are ricroprons sol

ato: in dout coor and cartaro ao donars at escations anguri che noria.

garato organizations, hourá:.

me sorcio. mio these tuo ascects o.

1e 0b201.

-isolancio, i.

2281,:

.".""

sortatan

¿di di:

Dio Sicciat

ne win, approves

ceaimoeino maldes

2202 cose Board coere, ceressa,

"S., d52);

Lusi rsacd tho Saa""

joruriana con all C3r520 mi

CONFIDENTIAL

1744

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

.RELEASE CF THIS DOCUMENT

30 50p 14

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

2

co Advised that NSA "shall act for the Executive Agent in all

COISEC matters set forth belou" - primarily responsibilities for estab-

I1ching adequate standards;

designed Rode cole dorite person routing or all securelent

be derived fron the poscession and study of telecomunications, or to

mislead unnuthorized persons in their Interpretation of the results of

such a study":

e- Defined telocommunications as "any transmiscions, emicsion or

reception of alçu, signale, veiting, images and sounde or intelligence

of any nature by sire, radio, visual or other electronagnetic system".

NSA prescribes Government-wide standards for the means of encryption

equipments, codes or other techniques - and only those approved by NSA

may be used for the encmption or cinosiided intormatiou

develops equipents where required. COMSEC eguimente are available

eletypewriter, high-speed data,

Conputer-to-conputer tronsnissions•

Hovever, NSA has no authority to require encryption; the reguirement for

encryption is left to the agency head under the DO 10501-

Moreover, they

are positively prohibited trom monitoring telecomunicationa to determine

vinctber classified Information 1e being revealed unless the agency bead

concerned approves in advance.

to dute, there are no known teleco munications techniques which would

perait unencrypted (clear) Infornation to be transmitted care t'ras inter

ception and fras being read by unauthorized jersons. Ac a result, the

U. S. CONSEC Board and NSA make the assumption that all unencrypted tele-

cormusications are being nonitored and that the infornation ding trans-

While this is a physical Impossibillty, there can

be no assurance that any particular tronsalssion is not being intercepted

and read.

Therefore, liSt will assune no responsibility for the security

of communications which are not excrynted in an ar roved cryptosyster.

The Walte House Co-munications Agency (WICA) 16 responsible for, providing

all telecommunications for the Presideni und iu the inite House, except

for cocuunications to and fros the President's aircrait (Air Force I),

which

are the responsibility of the Mr Force. WiCA 1s Orgnnizationally

under the Defense Communications Agency (DÇA). ine WiCA program has not

been reviewed by the Burcau.

Kenneth O'Donnell provides policy guidance

to the WiCA and has Inforned the DCA that 20 Inio mation On the size,

progran, or budget of the WiCA lo to be revealed vitaout his authority.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

3

There 1e a very close working ruintionstig between WilCA nd iSi on all

spects of casac, including possible

"ecapro-ising enanasic"

as

discussed below.

Hoever, WiCh has an 1roscible task in attempting to

provide secur camunicatione to: ac President so lone as be uses the

cormercial telephone

cysten. Unless Wich can be Inforned of sas specifle

Locations end people to whos the gresident viches to talk aboüs sensitive

or classifled information, there can be no assurance that the conversations

are not. reing eItored.

However,

If reconi camunications (scletype)

are invuired, erypto equippent cas be quicily brought to ts locations

where a teletype capability exists. Crypto equipnents cornot now be

Installed for secure voice transmissions over the commercial telephone

syster®

Comprovising Esanations.

The above describes the traditional CO'SEC problen where there is little

relationahip to the "physical security" probles, except insolar as

physical security 18 required for the cryptograchic equipzent. In addi

tion and nore 'closely Interrolated with the physical cecurity probler 1s

the problen of "compromising emanations" or radiation. Brierly, these

are electrical or acouctic signals enating from clectronic and electro

mechaniesl equipmentes. Il. these signals can be intercepted, It is possible

To protect against this darger, the U. S. CO:SSC Board has approved

(with concurrence by all concerned agencies including the Buresu) ISA

electrical standards for all electronic or electro nechenical equipents

(camputers, trpewriters, etc.) which process classilica informanion.

Each agency processing classified incoration

tarouga equipments 1s responsible for insuring that their equiments seet

the standad.

A special subcamittee of the USCS3 monitors this progran and pruvides

guidance aud assistance to the concerred agracles. As right be expected,

new offensive techniques are constantly being discovered wiich require

additional defensive precsutions. It is in this field that tie line

between ca tunications security dal plysical security set nasy.

Physical Security

The ters "physical security" has trodizionilly been ussociuid with saies,

guards,

and fences. Howaver, with the nireat or sophisticated aictroric

eavesaropping tiriques, nost agencies nure expanded the piysica" security

fole iu provide protection agatast. unauthorized access to classified or

censitive inforsation either by peopie or dy devices. "...

avareness or the threat posed by clandestine listening der...

ise isc,

1n Decenter 1955, established e Secial Carice on lecialcai Surveillance

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

13-:3=540C°

Tino Comatteo,

nas casaged vita,

covezzent Iscilitics os glamtarse

U. Estublishing und coordinatina policios with respect to counterlas

wis threat.

Tao Comittec muts it leust rosthly and cubrits anual reports to the isc

ca its courtico and lindingc.

Taer: is a closs relationshly tetizen

o Caro e a do certo a estos te enumaticas - in

o clandestina covieso of any cind tuva cuca diccoverca in the U. S.

altacach over 100 vere ancovarca in j. S. Iccilitlos overucas batweek

1849 od 19500

An culticial 450 verc ciscoverud in Ielendly forcie

aurcous facilitles cotreen 15i5 and 1950.

te dia acolitz vita tio cubaras: (but in 50na minio Interrclated)

Psilors cajor in orntico 19 Direnco, Cai ana Guito coreitiva iscacios

invoivo tho cindo cl Orc-irzurioas.

taiso ini Cinaicunions und raysicül

cocurady (protectio: aguirot clandesüina ilotuding dexcei).

I: tha ticin O8 CO-SCO, tier: circoid cnto a chico sesichano oi

1°C: 11 CC4.

Tre sacrotar curclece his rasconcioiiing througa

Mi, reconized by all co a hily coround meiaical agency in tals

Ira Cecretamy receitos bifor inice tion on interarincy bourd

isrouù be atproprieta ior tr

i) to recuast the Socratere o

Catrads

tatianos,

o2022092 Receitos to derrove

evalaste da Rucident's Polica-erications

no trai cacia incaaa in cacainctica 0e all cauiraents waich

Jssido alcacioleà incoritiu to Incure tiit no Intorration auy se

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

1d-0d0d

CONFIDENTIAL

5

availabio to unautharizod pursoms throug "comprorisira eranatlors.*

For a thorough ovalia. ion,

It rag to Rusessaiy,

Le cha inito fouso dosires,

to requose iSA to monitor Mite lousy communications on a sampling baals

and aivise the inito Houso al the results.

n the rattor of clandostino listonin: dovicca, mo iSi Special Cornitte

n Technical Survelllance Countereasuros should so charged with assessir

highest practicabio lovol of porforranco.

id ballara tho Sacrot Servico has tho rosponsibilily do. protocting the

Prosidential estabiistront agairst clandostire devices since thoy suport

the Bunau on roquost. Thoy are not members of tha committed and, so

l'ar as to can datermine, thuy do not rocaive concitted raports nor do they

contributo information to tha comitico.

As a continuing mattor, they

should bo mado a member of tho committoo.

Reconeniod action:

1. That Mr. Sundy issue a ASi: providing that the Sacrotary of

nor-crypio conunications.

That Mr. Bualy arrango through the "Sü Sposial Commitioo on

leohnical Surveillarco Countermoaswes to sucuid i covion and roport or

maasuras in ofract at the inito lousa to intain surialunce and protoc-

tion agairst clandascina listoniry covicus.

3.

That both coporta bo reviared by tho Frissort's Committao on the

varran Jesort, aucrontod by Dr. Hornig and Goraral S'Correll (022:), for

advice

ai recormondation to tho Resident.

PEGRET

CONFIDENTIAL

---

