# 104-10428-10013

## Page 1

1104-10428-0013

LORENCE IBERIEELENORNS

REPORT ON VISIT OF FOREIGN SCIENTISTS, OCTOBER OCTOBER 1972

381h

There were four guests in the group:

Health, MosCoHosKal600 2547 of Biophysics, Ministry, of Publis

Dr. Alexei A. Moiseev; Central Inst. for Advanced Medical Studies, Moscow

Dr. Jean-Claude Nenot; CLA, Centre D'Etudes Nuclaires, Fontenay-aux-

Roses, France.

Dr. R. Masse, ; CEA as above.

The four visitors vere not traveling torether, but by coincidence were

participants at, the sane iransuranium Biolosy Symposium at Hantora during

the week of Senter 210,

They were in San Prancisco by chance at the same

time and desired to visit Berkeley on the same day.

firs.

Anna, Low-Beer picked up the four guests in San Francisco and brought

them to the Donner Laboratory where they were greeted by Dr. John Lawrence.

Drs. Donald Van Dyke, James MaRae, and Howard Parker took them on a short

tour of the Anger camera facility and whole-body counting and scanning

equipment.

The current uses and potential in medical diagnosis were dis-

cussed.

Major questions concerned the use of these instruments in monit-

oring and assessing the extent of persons contaminated with radionuclides

in industrial accidents.

Lunch was attended by Dr. Hardin Jones, the four guests, Drs. Van Dyke and

Parker, and Dr. Patricia Durbin, who acted as hostess and guide through

Topics discussed at lunch were centered about the Transuranium

symposium.

The efficacy of two new techniques to remove lung contamina

tion by alpha-emitting isotopes

The two techniques are

Lung lavage and aerosolized cheating agents, particularly DTPA.

A tour of Bldg. 74 followed lunch. Three of the visitors are biologists

Dr's. Moskalev and Nenot are physicians, and Dr. Masse is a veterinarian

and air deal with animal experiments or

the interpretation of the results

of animal experiments.

They were much interested in

how one achieved

and managed a "biologically clean" rodent colony, in the minimum mainte-

nance rabbit rooms, and the cage-washing facilities. There was some

discussion about the 90-5r-injected monkeys, there exposure

levels, years

of follow-up, and the essential absence of biological effects at the

dose levels in the study.

A two-hour general discussion between and among the four guests and Dr.

Durbin followed the building tour.

The chief topics discussed were how

to explain the observed differences in the metabolism of the transuranic

clements among species.

The usefulness and verifiability of models of

human Pu metabblism were

considered at great length.

New areas of re-

search in internal emitters

problems were considered including the influ

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Dr. Durbin proposed a collaborative effort with two of Di. Moskalev's

colleagues.

They have collected data on human skeleton weights, but

now do not have the time or interest to write up their material.

Durbin has collected all of the l9th century and early 20th centary

human bone weight data and would like to add the modern Russian material

Dr. Moskalev agreed to propose a joint article with his

colleagues looking towards publication in an international journal.

sur ested that the

original data would be forwarded in any case as soon

as it could be copied.

In the late afiernoon the visitors toured (briefly) the Bevatron guided

by Ralph Thomas; the californium separation facility guided by Francis

HicCarty; and

the Hi-lac guided by Al Ghiorso.

Dr. Moiseev, who is a

physicist, was very much intrigued by the proposal to make

an advanced

scientific instrument by joining the Bevatron and the Hi-lac.

Dre Moska-

lev was not interested in how

the machines worked, "physics was not his

feld'he said. but asked what he as

a biologist might do

in the nature

of radiobiology experiments with such machines.

lioskalevregretted that it had not been possible

Tobias. TWe could probably have fit in a few minutes or made arrange-

ments for the following day, but I had run them ragged with sight-seeing

the day belore, Monday was very lull, and frankly they were exhausted

They would also have liked to visit the Medica

and peded rest. Mr low leer tried to fill them in on the duties and

Services group.

routine of that group.

Comments on money, budgets, problems of communication, demands on time,

etc. ran though all of the conversations.

Dr. Nénot

and Dr. Moiseev spoke English and

understood it well.

Dr. Moskalev and .

Dr. Masse understood more English than they could speak.

All four are

chiefly occupied with radiation protection and especially with problems

raised by internal emitters. Dr. Moskalev is his country's representa-

cive on the ICRP intornal nose committee

They all forste the develop

rent of nuclear power in their countries at a last nace

'includes, as they were careful to point out, pu fast breeders, hence

the overriding interest in Pu and its transplutonium contarinarts.

The Russian visitors will be guests of the MEC Division ui Piclogy and

Medicine

in Washiniton. (I foel certain we will roceive food marks as

husts and au sciontists. pwil).

One further point needs to be added. Although nuclear medicine is not

a cuurent specialty in either country, and the use of nuclear medical

techniques, especially as diagnostic

tools, is very limited, the tho

physicians indicated thay they personally were much interested, and there

has a definite trend in both countries towards more and more use of

such tools. "It is coming", they

---

