# 104-10267-10420

## Page 1

104-10267-10420

86-179

DISPATCH

PROCESSOR, ACH0D99

SEC HIT

J00a

P4PO

Chief, Speedal Affaire Mar!

CHAOT MANOR THAT

ap no name

CAN NOTE MODIN

PERILTTAND

ACTION REQUIRIO MEFTUDENDE

Acantaos Roparte.

there are attashed contact reporte dated 1l Mari, 28 Marb, 2 Aprll,

nad 25 Apoll 1964 coverthe wortsees with LITANI9. "

Willard C. CURTIS

Attacketa 481

Contest Reporta

MIRABAL

Dintribation:

1 - 1110

CADEN MENA HE MC NO

DISPATCH SENDO AND TUMBLA

Fu 2208

GASSAICATION

CS Copy an 201-329404

Ticine maniace

50 10011 1964

201 - 3040

---

## Page 2

Iceapt sTon Attachment to.

HHCMA-23268

MEMCRANDUN FER THIS RECORD

FROM

8 Lawrence F. Barkes

SUBJECTs Meating with LITANi 9: 1 Apr11 1964

4. 5, IO)roported as follows:

4840 6

Jo; Ing turned over the

letter to MIRABAL.

MIRABAl, seemad to feal he had a hot potato on his hands, was very m

confortable and even a bit scared and sald, "I'll have to discuss

this with the Anbassador," (LI) notes that MIRIDAL 13 Conardly,

timorous, not at all like his prodecessor AZCUS who was the epitome

of self confidence and control. (LI)finds this Interesting since ALCUE

was not a Cornist and HIRABLI 1s - the Carunist 1s really the

weakling in spite of all the strength that supposedly comes from

knowing that Mards-Ieninism 1s right.)

0000

..

Sterpt fron Attachsont to

HM9A-23268

23 Ap-ll 1964

---

## Page 3

February iste

HMMA 2301S

FACM

Amending with i a look mee fa ?0l0 11 215 hours 30 Ja

Isdu at the safe apertuent. IL-IMo in surpriserly good opirita, shovod

sone dê his usual deppa99100.

2a [L-!reporte' on the fallraing:

do Cn Saturday 18 Jan at the sscal E-lassy staff mesting, several

now aggients were prayed due.

A "Eirma month plan" vo

announced and during this period star? membera, in addition

so their uscal du.le", will rear speclal seporte on sovere

good he song

12055729160

3748

p 95%1

• MADiADO vill do a report on couscries which have diplonatio pou

Istlong vich Cuba • echasizis how contact with reprosentative.

here In "erico o such countries my bn parlayed Into somethine

$796° more worthile for the Gantro port tota

Rogello PODRIGUEZ. Man

given an assignment as Political Amorting Officer.

At this meeting Gall?omo SLI2 0! 1' Commercial Office - who hea

15603

recently been enorpine as a fanatiral Fidolista n spoke out about

the recent secord between the I55? and Cuba, saying. that 1% vag

convenient for the 155i to keep on = good side of Cuba and true

19436 kera dagger the baci of the Imerallits, Ambassador HERNaNDez

Aras, soreshat taken aback. by 21721 language, pointed out that the

haphost prinelodes of international elondehio.

Last wednesday (29 Jan) a Sorlet official,

the Cultural Copartaent End 990%8 WISH APARACTO and 1=9)to0k

pains to "bo a good Cormunist" during, thia encounter.

versation was picied up by (MiTRAP) RUDENIO van aloo al the hono of

Horaelo Morts Sarche, on the 28ch after the Mart bamge' seeslon

st the Suban Cultaral Inctitusso

A BOlITiaN Won • nATO prostly VILLS a was recently at the

Hotal Oxford with 7 children, valtlog to go to Caba to Join her

husband sho voris there (I-a) beleres she has gone ca to cuba.

do Ca 17 January Cuban deleçates to the SEPiL Conference vinitod Che

E-bassy and spoke with Isbassy employ s9.

One of these delegatng,

referrire to the Micaro plant in Cuor, sald that only 12 engineer

of the or final 37 pmalred,

0f -eso, a nan named (Du) PRESTLLA

was otill dotre an exerlient job allrogh ho 1s physically in poor

condition, The dicaro plant pecifically, and rechniciens throughout

Cuba In Emeral,

me'drlegates sald that

SECRET

---

## Page 4

foras, ri

136%

ho

P81821°

2808

On 23 January Pacer ONCFPiIlvas standirg at lle rato idien the

matinan arlved vith a latier for the lasessador.

Tia lollar;

isa eyes, the envelao lad c1l2 irias' ause on 1ta?

On 29 ¿as a YesosuelAn umar sered arena ferriso cosa co the

Fadassyo she mas alayine al lhe soini isrmayes, room bole

3h0

was trying lo sell exhibition rights to a Mila entitled "Idet. ".

J Crisen" sälch had bren filmd in Venosuala and shon oniy tirloe

before the government shat 1t dons and prolibitod futuro shoringe,

labelling the file as of "inorpos social Cendeneleo," BEJARANO

sald that she pianol to stay in Macico about a veex and rould also

contact the Soviet ant Crech In'assies In an erfort to sell Che

Mil and recoop some of the cost of projacing 1t, she no told'the?

hor propoultion vould de relayod to Havana.

I young Caban doctor, nanod Silvio BaTS, le In Medoo Cley an

nying to rotura to cuba, ho mes in the Embasay ein 29 iam miad ba

bean there before.

os 20 Jain

The Marts comemoration at the Institute/ma a big puecess i

of propio shoual ap: lhe speskers vere Ermanell CARBULO, Raul

APARICIO, GaSton MLO, ErnestO MA Sanchos, and Ballo ABREU

Jo

F133

rear ta atrair at sua inatituto a group o tacos present vent

no hone of Horacio LORES Sanches of 291las Artes, CARBALID &1

not vant to go lor sono reason unirou tofl% while at FLORES

place, (L) ann that Raul PEREIRA "Faulitos soment very Intarestad

1n FLORES Sanches and askel a nugber of questions about ida it?

1863/ RALL PERSIRA

says that FLORES 18s vell keown horouul. (ISTOY abos that

pos:(8780 200c082)

ko

She sald ahe

1.

Pü365

At 2330 houra 21 Jan Janto TRE Foce)120, A Honduras, Vascod 2D0

Cultural Departmento Ho livao In Puebla as Feabla 13 Sur 3307-23.

Later on bo roone with Rogello 300315U81 and tald tartern,

"Rogello doesn't see to trist no."

compil"

Altar Terosa PiODiZA Mas seen off at the alpart, Oson CONCKPCIDI

"revesled" that sho hal been fired on ordere of Prevident DORTICO

uho got tirod of recelving reptte that a fanons International

vex deviato (fanosa "tortillera iscanacionel) ina soricos a the

• DabasaJo

DORTICOS fired her for "jenoral odaduot.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

gisi

p358s

f853%

Brazil

8 93601.

HEDGES

CUBAN

==05g

103 21 U8: 11!:

:920 her a romansi

=ci0 1o a ciuse triand of

DORESTOS.

On jinagios an! Murslaz (23 an! 3) rin) CRETERA, on coplojos

so can't sean to get ary 17: 4ose ors oniy succoed. 1a messin

Onliemo RUra has bern shout:: hi-golf to be quite argreasive

poiltically in star! -01. 9.

¿9 appeara to bo a violent

partisan of the castro resta.

MIARE has bren leer agracir plan beloro, has recently boon

d'am in the dumpe am. has imon san-ling a lot of tino tallone.

tO DrO, MATIADO.

The labassador isla Dra. MACHADO that MIRABAL.

end. Herdean foal don't eni diuli coir'rer.

Eclipe POJAS, Mendean empioree el tha Cultural Seotion a iho

handles distribution of castro proccanda to people sho vinit the

Erbassy - has teen riven a desi in

the Cultural Section, Thie mm

unty earns about 50 500 pesos for month. (Ing SAYS TRAT ROJAS

COLAS BE BOUTT # 15 AVI I ZUE!

Tis is about 28-30 yeare olde

Coly SaLOazero has ratumal pron tube.

There 1s ome talk that

she right marry Jarys 50:0,

In chin, although she le nuch older.

SOTO 15 sono sort of lesie: - penips a labor leader thara.

On Sunday 26 Jan a grouy o. Clinese acrobata paid a courtary

visit to the Inbassy.

The ltsier of this group said that Senator

On Soday 7l Jan DOLOTAS DE LiSi vas at the Babaday,

he hopes to go to the ls to egio: iss Somnson Lopes Mateoe..

Interries,

he came wiir Eonaraa c05s, divorod vile of a form

that DIA" Oras and inbassiic: iF icost Arras are great frienda

and that she had soon an mr me unich DIAZ Orcas sent to the

Amba she appeared to bo qui mies that Victor suco Oslan had

bern Invited to Cuba bur sa: she tad not. She vanto to intemlow

Fidel CASTrO again, MEDES 13 en American oltiren, Jirees

WAit

that 1f they let tri: nut tri: a cuban to nake this eula (as ho

vants to do) 11 would probabiy result in thousands of Cubans Colag

the sare thing to gei nut. (ultil and MaRAP have picked up

BALDISARE).

Song joungsters from a gieup callod the "Mortalento Cultural

Made he be entas o 9as poo 23-26-3907

Ezbassy The president

no: phone. 2324-39 The

-TAsICe IS Rize Aco, More 21-27-63, address Aroulde

cortrel do, 266-9, Cola-'a so Fogar. The Subseoretery of

E2020R ho Bod 23 root or ino

SE0257

---

## Page 6

14-00000

$502

Nen Tesi, 1957. Il vill be ordered !.ou iX§ &©à¿∞

a The neo:lag had to be eut short since Dras so so elsenhare so net and

assero un agent prospast sho vas plioning to dora Merico City the nest moraingo

---

