# 104-10418-10354

## Page 1

104-10418-10354

ORIC : JOHN ME" WHITTEN

UNIT : CYWE:3

D INDEX

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

ВІДЕТ

DATE 1 6 DECISIER 1963

D NO INDEX

DATE :

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESFIGAFION

WISH'S HOUST

All:

MR. MCGEORGE BUNDY

FROM:

PARTET OF STATE

ALIN:

MR. U. ALEXIS JOHNSON

CENTRAL INTETLIGENCE AGENCY RE OSWALD

12-62

ROUTING

4

5

2.9:563

CONF :

INFO :

BGA

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

0/07/91;748

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

87520

SUBJECT:

LEs HARVEY OSWALD

REFERNCE IS MATE TO OUR OUY TELEGRAM IO, 86702 OF 4 DECEMBER 1963 WHICH

GAVE INPORMATION ON THE TRAVEL, OF MARINA OSHALD (AND PRESUMAELY ALSO LEE HARVEY

OSWALD AND THEIR DAUGHEER)

ACROSS WEST GERMANY ON TU

IR RETURN FROM THE SOVIET UNIOE.

INFCRMATTOE NOW AVAIIABLE

SERNS TO CONFIRM THIS.

3 JUNE 1962 ONE M. OSVAID, LISTED AS A MALE BUSSIAN CHIZEN ENTERED THE NETHERIANDS

BY TRAIN AT THE OLDENZAAL BORDER POINT.

COMHENT:

IN IS FELTEVED THAT THE INSTING OF THIS FERBON AS A MALE WISTRAD OF

FEMALE HAS JUST AN ERROR OF THE BORDER OFFICIALS.

NOKE THAT OLDENZAAL, IS

OPPOSTIE FEINTHETH, THE GERVAY BORDER POINT WARRE MARINA OSWAID LEFT GERMANY.

BID OF MESSAGE

C/S-COMMENT@ASSEMINALLON APPLLCABLE.ID.RYBAIGPELOOR.CABLES.

Document Number 334-133

for FOlA Review on MAY 1978

authority or

HI CHARD HELMS

30l1-

ABSTRACT

28924x

INDEX in

BATE De 61963

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

Excloded fram automatic

ISEGRET

• downgrading and.

on declassication t

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG':

UNIT :

: EXT

DATE:

6 DECEMBER 1963

INDEX

D NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO

FEDERAL. BURRAU OF INVESTIGATION.

WELLS HOUSE.

ATIN: MR. MCGEORGE BUNDY

•FROM:

SPARENT OF STATE

CONF g

INFO i

12-62

ROUTING

6

293693

OSWAL)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

87520

SUBJECT: IES HARVEY OSTAID

REPERICE IS NADE TO OUR OUS JELSURAN HO. 86702 OF 4 DECENT 1963 NEIGH

GAVE INPORNATIQN ON THE TRAVEL ON NAHIIA OSKAID (AND FRESUMABLY ALSO LEE HARVEY

OSWALD AID THEIR DAUGHER) ACROSS WEST GERMANY OU THEIR REJURN FRON THE SOVIRI UNION.

IHTORMATTION HON AVAIIABLE

BREWS TO CONFIRM YETS.

3 JUNE 1962 CHE H. OSVAID, LISTEN AS A NALS RUSSIAN CITIZEN ENTRRED THE NETHORLANDS

BY TRAIN AT TER OLINAZAAL BORDER POINT.

COMMENTS. IN IS EELIEVRO THAT THIS LISTING ON THIS PERSON AS A MALE INBIRAD OF

MEMALE WAS JUSE AI ERROR OF YES BORDER OVICIALS. NOTE THAT OLDENZAAL IS

OPPOSTS INHEIL, THS CERVAT BORDER POINT WHERE MARINA OSWALD LEFT GARVANT.

SID OF MESSAGE

Document Number 334-133

for FOlA Review on MAY 1975

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

