# 104-10116-10157

## Page 1

104-10116-10157

SEGICI

MINCRANDUM FOR: C/E/BC/C

F.

SUBJECT

Rolo ed Venecaves, CaBala, is

Diainformation se the Carrleon

Investigate?

• 22

NET'ERENCE

(0009r/6515, 82 August 1969.

eubjeet: KEYWAY/Garcleois Jareerigation

aí Respody Astrostoati:a: Donald P.!

NOR TO: file 100-800-17.

1. Reference lirarded a ClRuA r. emoragdam aBout NERTOti

to Chief of Station,

Slace ihas dale FEI roports have ezowa bet

NA. TO:% le e cón mad, Abd-O.S. Als luce Belleal recorde lane se-

reaied that he men dlscharged in July lebo as a resal of paychlatio

probless, barlag triod do too or mose occaelana lo comelt suicide.

NOS. TON's lled'aboa: ClA Mrs: eppeared in the Vascouves San on 5

Aiguet 1961.

2. The atlached IBI sevor, DSE 77295, 10 April 1968, concerne

arothes esample of disiz carrelion erpearing la Vascouver, trealving the

Sug, and related to tes Garriton caso.'& check of Ageney files showed

tist we have no recore of trevir LAUTENS. Marlo GRACUAS.,

Misa Dorothy WHITTY. The jeieresce of the andentlited caller to

GRACIAS may have boon a forble dos Menuel GARGIA Gonzalcs, whor

Tarsisca hes sared as one of ths assassice of Prénident Kennedy but

vibe arrears to bare disamented co to be con-erlateat.: There are no

AgenCy traces (Including JAVATI! iD GARCIA.

.3.. The Commusic: briss cocorally and Saulet nous miedla epecillenly

ARYA giVEn GESIlIOn'd atasy enthuelastle coverago and eupport, bec-us:

11 la chriously ta thel laterest to malutain thal Facelden Kennedy was

918

Fi

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Repround Use Only

Alar genroduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHEY

escabinated not by pro-Communtet Lee Harvey Orwald bat rather sa

o resules a right ming conspiracy involvios Cal.

The suriceing of tro such allegations to or throngh the Vorcerer

Sen deems to place a atrolo on colacidence. 2 Do you have say laformation y

about the ne of the san la other ouriocinga of MHORDEd propagande "

«falast CIA? ls there any Information abest contacle botueen employees of

Rhe Sus and representalives of Soviet Intelligence? ll no such Intermation

lo ai hand, 1i would be apprectated l these questions mere forwarded to

the Station. Allbough Headquasters has no rocord of Trever LUTENs.

I8 lo concelvable that Stallon flles sasy also hold informalion ubout bir.

DeROTan E. Prait

Attachmenta

Distribation

Orig @ l - Adressee

1 = A/DOI (Mr. Goodwin)

1 - Genersl Coansel

18 - O!ilce of Sccusity fAtta; Mr. Feul Gayaor)

• 1 - CI/F&A Chron

1 = DP lot file (Very Vancoaver flle)

1 - CI/S&A (Mtes Seni:)

SCRET

---

