# 104-10237-10120

## Page 1

104-10237-10120

SECRET

AMBIOGY=I

18 June 1068

STROPSIS

DEOLO TOSS Y: 2110 0..

vas recontacted

000

coco" am possible lende to

eiterati

Roptedad Is det

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

19 See 1901

CONTACT REPORT

SUIT: Recentes of Oliverdo A. TOMR Vasallo. (201-189306)

At 1730 Boars, & June B9' (Sabjo0t) sail enlind 10a

the underulened vas adrined

•petity mber viven A1n (351-616)) And Jelt the messago that

no would lite to tali again with paul Strond (the underalaned)

•nytino nIter 1600 bours, & Juse.

Upon arriving ot Tomun apartment (Apt.

305, 1038

18S0 hour, I Jun, TONY InSIcAted to sin tro danters ho mould

Ilin to have mono privasy und they and his u1te, Caridad, lest

the apartmut.

He rotterted

a la shore boue be ve hidink.

A th Meter of Tan 1 sON, one of his intiltration

members.

my be idential it's one

000.

"scoring to tolls, to was sented

no the meretary tol

— 3 There we not, however.

mmy dinemenion in which Poilt recalls!

Jor hia politient

eaten noving bee ilmed.

Moor the arovide date on hia absbally 8ox

Doulast.

no other ponsible lond

WANT

Insteded Hor entomatta

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

who would know |

• TOMI affIrmed Culol Das previously

"Ita MUTO Cutierrer in the second Front of Incanbray.

0s 101

""" under sylun In the Brazilian Intanny (a16, Argontino

Imbasay?), when Till gained political asylus. : when Untel

finally roceived hin sale conduct from the basmy, he vent

to Puerto Rico and, TOMEO

postulates that Ondel 1n now rain

with MINOTO in oither the Unitod States or Puerto Rico.

Two amp shota (to be returned) vere provided by.

TOU of bimBol! and als other individuala who vere in nayli

Thieh

So identilled then in aested, ne

in the pbotograph in

from

7.

Upon completing the debriefing.

Stroud and Toldru

"enchanged small talk" for n

while until ToMsu finally stated

thnt ho still viahod there an sonething more he could do to

OP free Cube, and anked "That do you think I whould dope

"trond replied that

no partion could really make that type of

docintos for another individual, and countered by anklag TOlly

what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the

Vl Army as a career military olficer.

•. Tony replled that, of course,

he was once an

altrnilet, but that there were fer job opportunition in

which he could apply his pant expertence.

His slater had almo

muhod him 11 he felt ho and als family would want to live v1ta

IP In Spaln or Henico, but he didn't think too men of thin

In then stated that he bad been asked by Manuel ANTIME.

do tato a job an

na inatructor.

Without indicating any

mocintlon of even aurores of ALTIME' activitles,

or of

ANTI'n contact with TOMED (as indicated In TOMS' " 201),

on an ated what he thought of AlTIME's propontion.

ODD atated that ho would no longer follow any min an a

•ividul or an a lender, because a man'n idenla, outlook.

and objectives ohnuse with tine.

for ple, the people of

Omba followed Fidol bocauno of the idenla ho advocated.

When

del foot over, his neconplishonis cradually beone quits;

#Iront from the idenle ho had empoumed.

TOMKU continued

by maying he would

"no lOnger fOllOw & man,

One could only

Imam? hIn 1denlo or an orgalantion which followed those

Ilenlo, sinoo a good oreniration would be lenn likely of

" controlled by a mingle nan.*

When unked for an example

of the typo of organisation ho had in mind, TOMKU rapiled te

ma mont favorably inolined forarde the Idealm and goals of

the duns.

The SUl or JIC in an orreniration crouted by

Immolo HAY. livero around a nucleun of former 10 July Movement

Leadero,

Moo mono and attachment dated 11 July 1003 from dohn

Coordinator of Cuba Altel

• ARA, Depertners

isciuded iron suiemalia

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

ba noted bero that in am inform

achance with fre.

TOM's uprisor at the

Defenno Langero lintituto, Anacontle Naval Assor, A June 64

te, UnSITIn voluntered the Inforntion that "111 of the othe

"Erlande sindonta hero' have told ne they think vory Musly

of TONIT, ond that to l0 1 very brave man, bocauo be and his

family ver very wenlthy in Cubn and he save 1% all up to so

anto entio and light she Castro Borime. "

WV11/80/23

SECRET

---

