# 104-10006-10271

## Page 1

1104-1006-10271

FROM:

(Requeaters name) O

BRANCH

SAla

TO

TUBE

RID/ INDEX

DT- 5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

REQUESTER

RID / ANALYSIS.

R10/201

SECRET

BADGE NO.

FEAR RA

5c39

ROOM

DATE

EXTENSION

7735

TINITIALS

DATE

• NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

3 MA 64

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

GT - 7

DW- 6

RID/MIS

GT - 6

RID/ INDEX

DT - 5

SURNAME

UTE

ER

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHÉCKED

Teofil

AKA. ALIASES

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF

BIRTH

CITIZENSHIS

V. 5

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

/ Dallas, Teras

COMMENTS

NO PERT

IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES

ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason

for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained

in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol o when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture

cards and the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the

consolidation (i.e., copy or cross

reference

to be placed in the

green D

below:

(a) D

Consolidate into

201-

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and

those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

RESTRICTION (If any)

ASS TENEEM

OTHER: INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

[YES

1 NO

Be REPP

RID

DESK

Note 2, Information concerning foreign -

public personalities (except mili-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

