# 104-10433-10073

## Page 1

104-10433-10073

Ras 563

REM.

TE BRANCH

sis.

SSIFIED MESSAGE I TOTAL COPIES 1/'!

REPRODUCTION PROHISITEO

PERSOY/UNIT NOTIFIED

COPY

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

UNIT

TIME

FILE

SLOTTED

Larace

EYES

Tell y Wise s

20R000,50544

2521537 FEB 68 CITE

INFO DIRECTOR

(158197)

UP: SPECULATES THAT ADAY CLAYTON POWELL MAY

HAVE

LANDED HOLE BLACK POWER CONFERENCE ON 25 FEBRUARY, BUT NO

LE ENONSO UP, BIGINE COMNISSIONER SAID CONFERENCE HAD BEEN

DULZA AT HOTEL OU NORTH SEMENT AND THAT POLICE MAD BEEN

SPIED ALIMOUGH TROUBLE WAS NOT ANTICIPATED. BIMINI WAS

•CHED AS SITE OF CONFERENCE;

ACCORDING TO UPI'S SOURCE,

ECAUSE IT WAS EASIER TO DO IT THERE THAN IN THE UNITED

TATES:"

2, UPI REPORT DID NOT MENIION THAT DR. MARTIN LUTHER

CAB EXPECTED TO OTTOND, INCHEVER IT DID CARRY THE OTHER NAMES

#ZONES IU REP AS THOSE INVITED.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 6. Moul 1978

---

## Page 2

13-00000

dis wine.

REPPOOLCTION PROMISITE

¡PERSONALT DOTIFIES

835550

FIL

2521557 FEB

• 68

INFO DIRECIOR

28F802:58544

P23

PI SPECULATES THAT ADA2 CLAYDON POWELL MAY HAVE

FLASHED HOLD BLACK PODER COUFERENCE ON 25 FEBRUARY, BUT NO

DUE SHORED UPO

BIMIND WAS

PICED AS SITE OF CONFERENCE, ACCORDING IO UPI'S SOURCE,

WEECAUSE IT WAS EASIER TO DO ET THERE THAN IN THE UNITED

STATES.*.

UPI REPORT DID NOT MENTION INAI DR. MARTIN LUTHER

KENE EXPECTED TO ATTEND, HOWEVER IT DID CARRY THE OTHER NAMES

HENRIONED IN REE AS INCSE INVITED,

Premind

AFPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date .

: 17 AUR 1976

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Fris

PEs.

158%.

Said, 27 (E.0)

CNNICAN I WRID COPY

SSIFIED MESSAGE IT TOTAL COPIES

SECRETUMAL

PERSON UNIT NOTIFICO

RIPRODUCTIO: PROHIBITEC

ADVANCE COPY

BSSUED

UNIT

TIME

LUSLOTTED

TUDED

EYES CAULY"

Head Y2ee.98

LIFO DIRECTOR

HALFA SAUNTON)

5024/6/N 59191)

JP: SPECULATES THAT ADAM CLAYTON POWELL MAY HAVE

-QAED HOLD BLACK POVER CONFERENCE ON

25 FEBRUARY, BUT NO

= ENORED UP, BIGINE COMMISSIONER SAID CONFERENCE

• HAD BEEN

CEFOLLED AT MOTEL DU NORTH SININE AND THAT POLICE HAD BEEN

-ERTED ALTHOUEN TROUBLE WAS MOT ANTICIPATED.

BIMINL WAS

•CHED AS CITE OF CONFERENOR, ACCORDING TO UPI'S SOURCE,

ROPURE IT WAS "EASIER TO DO IT THERE INAN IN THE UNITED

TATES:

2, UPI REPORT DID NOT MENTION THAT DRO MARTIN LUTHER

LEE EXPECTED TO ATTEND, HOWEVER IT DID CURRY THE OTHER NAMES

EIRKONARTRBER AS THOSE INVITED,

CONEIDENE

b-!

Downgraded to Confidential

by authority of 009Stili012913

Berch 2

FOLL TEXI GOPY - CO NOT RELEASE

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON March 2, 28

ELLE IEXI COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

