# 104-10422-10145

## Page 1

104-1022-10145

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

3 DIRECTOR

2

3

ROUTING

41

5

161

FROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTION, CANHH.

(WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1320, 5 DEE 63 LMED

NFO a DEI, D/DCI, DDP, C/C1, C/C1/S1, VR

SECRET 951731Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7256

" RYBAT GPFLOOR

IN 742734

5 D0E 1963

PIPS

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

RES DIR 36976 *

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1975

La PETER KO WOODHEAD ARRIVED,

_ IMPDET CL BY 01.22 08

, WHET 3X DCOS AND GOT

Balts

THROUGH

CUSTOMS WITH NO PROBLEM.

MATRIST

SCALE: FI

20 AFTER CAREFUL STUDY WITH LEGAL ATTACHE HAVE DECIDED HOLD

INTERROGATION AT APARTMENT NO. 38 CALLE MERIDA 166, WHICH WAS

USED BY KUCLUS PERSONNEL FOR AEGENERATE L. PO

THIS

COMPLETELY BACKSTOPPED BY BEING RENTED FOR "VISITING. AMERICANS"

NO FUTURE PLAN TO USE APARIMENT BY STATION. APARTMENT BUILDING HAS

NO WATCHMAN. NO ADJOINING APARTMENTS OR BUILDINGS. MESSRS CLARK

ANDERSOV AND JOE GARCIA OF LEGAL ATACHE"

STUDIED APARTMENT ON

NIGHT OF 4 DECEMBER AND APPROVES OF USE.

for FOlA Review on

4O PLAN IS TO HAVE ANDERSON AND GARCIA PICK UP ALVARADO AND

BRING HIM TO APARTMENT.

MEXICAN POLICE WILL ACCOMPANY TO APARINENT

BUT WILL NOT REPEAT NOT ENTER BUILDING. ANDERSON ALONE WILL

INTERPRET FOR

WOODHEAD.

5O WILL HAVE

1976

INTERROGATION.

OR TO MEXICANS.

IN A BEDROOM TO MONITOR AND RECORD

WILL NOT BE BLOWN TO ANDERSON, GARCIA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

201289248

GROUP 1

Excluded bran outomatie!

doungroding and

eclassifearion

Copy No.

Document Number

---

## Page 2

13-00000

74273

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN.

PAGE?

6 PLAN

IS TO HAVE INTERROSATION BEGIN AT 1405 HRS 5 DEC CHEXICO

CITY TINES, ADJOURN OVERVISHT AND CONTINUE MORNING OF 6 DECEMBEr.

70 PLAN SEND COPY OF TAPES BY WOODHEAD IF POSSISLE.

SECRET

C/S Comment: * Requested confirmation that

and passed through customs.

arrived at Mexico City

---

