# 104-10211-10005

## Page 1

104-1021-10005]

18. 92y 1917

ENGRADE TOE THE PACO?S

SUDdECT:

SOURCE:

DATE OF INFORMATIO::

1.

The isG building in dinst is co Leginstly

prus-

PCA:.

There is another entrance at alica colodarstogo 2.

The

building

occupies

entire cily block ind has its oun

prison within inis arsa.

2.

linst:.

Born in 1948

He Tives at

of scientifie workers.

prospelt Lenina, Apt. le. insa.

le is 168 cm. tall, has

a solid vuild ne is. forcer gy..muot), tload hair, liazel

eyes. and a soft-looding lace with ironinen: red veins.

Wien

conversing.

he has

the nauit of laokin

downward and

then suddenly

raising his eyes

to look

u,?.

not consider him to be particularly irculligent but rather

as having a "crafty, peasan: approach to life.

Л.

AisLiOt is the soo of Aleksandr Mitiforovie:

PARSLiUY, a nemier

of

tre Central Commitire and second secre-

tarj of

the Selorussian CP.

This males the father the second

highes: ranking Party official in

tie pelorussian 55ª.

Ile

has been characterizad as a ruthlor, carocrist.

The ther

is a physician uno no lurger practices.

49

I APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAN

---

## Page 2

SHERIT

- 2-

bern to logo or sio sorera tataronge one ravae

The father

nad wanted. Anatolis

to narry tie daughter of another ner-

bur

of cod tolorussian CO, Alcisey Alekseyevich SHikHoV,

and tnis has caused nuch conflict between fatner and son.

father.

In order to curry

favor bien ber facher-in-law, distroy's wife reports epi-

sodes of her husband's drunken denavior to liri.

The younger

ARSLiONs fight frequently

and separate from tire to time;

at the tine of tho source's departure they were living

apar...

The

wife

is materialistic and takes advantage of

¡er iusband's posicion.

Sire deals frequently on the black

market.

They have a dougnier, Galina, born in 1973 in

Piinsk.

ANSLOV nas a urncher dio works for die Co, CPSU in

l'oscow, and a sisier.

0.

RiSLAOV attended Mingi Middle Schcol 24 to-

vether vich source, graduating

He graduated from

ine Frenci Departrent of the llinsk siato Pedanogical Insti

¿ute of Foreign Languages in 1972, after whici, on his

father's insistence,

he enrolled in a k63 scinol (apparently

in Minsk), graduating

as a lieutenant in 1973.

He has since been working

as an operations

officer (operupolnonocency) in the Operations Departrent

¡Operativnyy ordel or operoidel! of the kas in Minsk.

assignment was at the Yubileynaya liotel, follored oy

the Turist Hotel, and

at present he is responsible for tie

rubileynaja Hotel. He holds the rani of senior lieutenant.

F. After beconing a KGB officer, ANSENDY continued

to associate with

Jand other classmates, and through

ret

a number of otier KGB officers

and was able

to learn sonething

about certain KGB operations in the tinsi

3.

EORICH,

Bern in about 1950.. lie is

Eno son ofaile

chin,

nas ligit hair winich no parts en the left side. He is

SECRET

50

---

## Page 3

" 3-

3 quice person.

He plays one quitar.

lle and his wife are

DGLi

graduates of tie tinst State Pedagogical luscitute of

Foreign Languages.

llo speaks Gerran and Englich.

was on assignment

in The detherlands (for the kGg, the

source blinis), hod returned io llinst but was scheduled to

return to The liethorlands just before the Source's depar

sure.

Born in about 1949.

, lle

has blond hair and deeply

set cyes.

Ino source describes him as clunsy, with a crude-

face, and as

"stupid but crafty".

of the tinsk State Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Lan-

quages and was an informer mile a siudent there.

CHISTYY

served in tie Army.

He is a nos officer.

he works with

RISENOV (see paragrapi l) in

*ne Operations Department. le

•is a heavy drinkur and sroker.

GURlY (fnu, pnu) is 173 co. tall, burly, and has

wich resenoles that

of a bulla

He is a nob major, works in the ilirisk kGB Uperations

Departnent, and serves

as the oversier (kurstor) of the Minsk

Hotel, slicit is about 11 miles to

the west of the city.

Vladinir (pnu). Born in about 1946. He

is silort (TGó ca.).

weavy-set, looks like a boxer, has

nair, blue eyes,

and a bireinark on the left side of his face.

ie has a penetrating gaze.

struction engineer; he has been to ran but nou

was fornerly a black marketeer wallets "nost

I THerent wien he was

He showed some sort of

idencification mirich prompted the militiaman to salute him

let nin go.

B.

He is

married to the daughter of cosmonaut Pavel

wilo died on 10 January 1070.

Hans ich dress wey and die cons bered by source to best snow-

off.

HOLOCANO, Viktor Mikolayevich.

Born in about 1946,

son of the Minister of Trate of the Belarusstan SSR,

Mikolay Petrovich MOLOCHKO.

Viktor MOLOCHKO at present is a

lieutenant in the KGB Operations Department (Querotdel).

is snort, fat, was dark hair, is married and ias children.

ISITTIT

51

---

## Page 4

.

POROL (Fou, inu), Hores for the iGn.

le has

been

in Africa on assigurent,

possibly with military or economic

nid,

and ias published a vori

on Africa.

10202 always moves

in Kou circles.

ilo is married to the

deunhter of a lieuten-

ant general

(reneral leptonouse vo concanos an

Arry.

1l0

is siort

(auous TuT ca.) nos bulging ejes.

a short neck, and

10oi:s

"fire a toad."

I new rodel

Volga,

a sensation

in !i.5s.

as only a lei uf tiese cars per jear, are allocated

for civilian purciase.

illab-alo

Yokor Protop'yovich.

is a lieutenant

lu is a friend of Alelsandr liki forovici

AiSEOV (sue paragrap 1).

Is a retired ifs major.

HaS

foruerty a depuif carotor the Minsk ibe pperotoel and

an inrediato superior of inatoli, abolior.

sonias daurnter.

a graduate ni die tinsi siato lecagogical insti-

luie of

Foreigu Languages and is a friend of die source.

11.

SiCilEYKO,:

viadieir (pnu).

corn in about 1940.

was too only persen

Wio Traduated

kul school (apparently

inces vati the ran of iunior lieutenant, because of ais

bad iciavior.

He was later expulled fron the ICO for excessive

drinäing

and now moris at the nutcorological station in llinsi.

His wife's narc

is

Tamara.

SAZAiOVICH (nu, pnu). Is a ibe colonel, Chief of

the Special

Departnant (Osobig otdel) of the Belorussian SSR

AGo.

SAZATOVICH interrogated a black marketeer, a friend of

tic

Source.

13.

SURGA.10%, Yeygenit Fedorovich..

Born about 1945.

Is a its officer.

a graduate of the Plysics

of the selorussian State University.

His father is Fedor

russian sea supreme socheir regente suRGAte about iso

russian SSR Supreme

Yergeniy SURGA:O% is about 190 cr.

all, blond, of medium build, attractive.

His left sioulder

Is noticeable lover

tian lie right.

He likes to drink.

140.

russian üth.

Zoos rains more marmonte are estra be

lle is a a Captain in the Belo-

•Has been replaced.

1: 15

vile's name is Sretlana, she has born

in 1920.

Toey nave a daugider. Auna, born 8 Marcle 1972.

areset Zinovicil is

learning to drive a bus.

This possibly indicates tnat Zelnvita may have been

Tarad fron tie kou.

52

---

## Page 5

14-00000

+ 50.

..

a..o

16G$

INPORLATION MERCUT

SULJECT : Landership of tre KGB in 8ho Srorlacon

thic debricfed:

is seut d

1264

Loaderabig of the 10Ii

1a tDo Proviacos

Rostorsksyn Oblast

ChLOR Of tho Will: TUSCHENKO, TU. P.

Chler, 30d Dept. UKGB: COl. GASILIN

Uzhgorodaleja Colant

ChIEf of the UNGH: CoL. KOVEHAR'

Deputy Caled of the URGli: COl. MiYTDUi

Chiot or Deputy Chief of a section of the 30d

Dept: ASTHSLIK

Holda vlen 68K

CaBIrIEs KOE, bOluarkaja 838:

GeDOrAL BAYCERNNO

(VIS 6h108 of tie

First Chlos Directorato)

Dep. Chalraan KAB: MaJOr OF 18. COl. LARIBLY

Lithuanian ssa

Deputy Chairan, IGE, LItAuRano BBR: COL. KOROPLINSO

(wa chlot of d

BeCtlon 1a Moccou

10 1060)

And saine,

8

retalisco

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 6

14-00000

-

#*6-B-T-T

-2-

Yolfo grauskaya Oblast

Ch1ef UKOB: Major Cen. IL'ICHEV

Deputy Chlor UKGB: Col. TEBIKOY, B.8.

Chief 2ud Dept: Col. BiLOV

GoOrkLaD S88

Chadrnan KOB: MaJor Gon. INAURI

Chief 2nd Dept: COl. KERYALISHVILI

Dep. Chief and Dept: Lt. Col. NOVITSKIY

Chief of a Beation of the and Dept: Major YA. B. GORIYELI

Ukrainlan SX

Chalran EGB: Major General NIKITCHENKO

DeD. Chairasn XGB: COL. SHUL'ZIRNKO (Party vorker)

Dep. Chairman KGB: Col, KRIKUI (sam chiol of 2nd Direotorate

Chlet 3ad Directorate minor 8J: Col. BRAZHKO (prIOr to

this he was chief of UKOR

1n Khar'kor for 2 years -

Party VOrker)

Dep. Chief and Directorate: Col. I.l. BULDAIDY

Chief, Int Dept of 20d Directorate IGB: LE. Col. A. BOVAL'

(was chief of the

ind Dopartant In

Оевва)

Chief o! a Bection of the lat Dept, 20d Directorate:

LE, COL. MILOLATIY (untIl 1963, to ma deputy chiel

of the lat department, and Directorte)

Chief of a Boction ("Black Mariot") of sone Dept, 2nd

Directorate:

Lot. Col. PETRINTO, VI. St.

9

---

## Page 7

UNGB Leatazradakaya Oblsas

Chie!: Col. SIMILOY, V.I.

DOD. ChIOl: COL. D.Y. POCHATION

•DeD. CAJOI: COL. LYAKIN (Sor cadres)

Ch108 08 the 20d Dept.: Li. COl, V.I. DEMIDOY (De 10

B180 asslatant to te Cader, UIGB)

Dop. Chlos of the and Dept.: LE. COL. SAVEL YSY, V.Y.

Chief of a Section of the 3nd Dept: Capt. Anat. LURKOV

Hoter! The secaod Dapartment bus 170-180 persons.

Ll. Col. G.I. PCAKLIN was formerly chief

of a section of the secoml dopertment and

La now UXGB representative in one of the

Lentagrad City districts/ rayos.

UKGD, IrkutBraya Obleat

Chief of the and DoDE, UNGB: SEREZKIN

UKGB, Kanchetakay. Oblaut

Ch101 of the 8nd Dept: LE. Col. M.N SMASHIO

Deputy Chairman:

Col. A.P. PALIN (van eblot of 8m

dopt 1a Loningrad)

Cale! 01 And Dept: Col. IA. P. MISILSY (aS 89880F

case officer la the 2nd Dept of the

3nd Chief Directorate of the EGB

18108004, 19-60)

UKOB, L'vorokaya Oblaet

Chief. Col. SHEYCHKIKO

10

---

## Page 8

14-00000

UKGB 10S tD8 CItY Of MOsCOR and UnsCOY OblaSt

Chief: MaJor GEn. EVETLICHNY

Dep. Chief: Col. VODOMIN

DOD. ChIef: Col. GRIBUNKOY OF GRISUNSAROY

Ch108, 20d Dopt: COL, VABENKOV, I. Ya.

Dop. ChIol, 30d Dept: Lt. COL. BIYAZEY

Dop. Chief, 2nd Dept: YOUREMENKO

Chiel of a Section, and Debt: BLOKHIN

Chief of a Section, 2nd Dept: Lt. Col. GUBISOV, P.M.

(IN tOLB BUCTION, TION IN A NTOUP Of VOCKETS

• § persons - tho aro eninged in CB operations

1n tho 10ll0n1ng hotels in the city of kosoun

land in the restauranto of thene hotela):

"UstAnhino", "Turist",

"Yaroslavskaja", Klevskaya",

"Tsentral'naya", "Argentya', plus one otber.)

URGB, Starropol'Baly tray

Chle1: COl. PARASOY

Chief, 2nd Dapt: COl. BORODKIN, M.

Stavropol'skly Kray DIGB Bopresentative in the Cities

o1 Kislorodnk and jessentusl: Lt. Col. POVES'MA, 5.T.

CAleS, UNGE" COl. TZYDORIMENIO

Chlor, 20d Department: Col. BABICH

Deputy Chief, UKOB:

Col. AKIKOV (be 1u also Krasnodarksy

Kry UKGB roprosentative in the

city of Sochl/where his/ deputy in

ATVARDZHI)

+B-C-1-IT

11

---

## Page 9

11-00000

-74-C-158-1

VELOR ESX (618Y O1 Talksat)

Chalrana, KGB: MAJOr General NATHUBHIN (Porter Cale!

01 tDo BOB Personsol Disoctorato)

ChIos, 2ed Diroctorato: Col. AZIMOY

Deputy Chief, 2nd Directorate: VOBUCHANOY

Chief Of a Department, 2nd Directorazo: KARAVAYIY, M.N.

Doputy Caled of a Dept, R0d Diroctorate: KOZLOVSKIY

Note: At tbe beginalag of 1064, YEVDOUIHENKO and

MAYHUSAIN vor to

sultch positions

YEVDOKINFIXO In Tashtont and NAYNUSHIN

In Freanodar.

La bard i no-Balkarakaya

188B

Col. A. KISELEY (at the beztening of

1964, Do was to lecone KOB Chalran of

tha dazukh SSA in place of Kajor Genoral

ARETINEINOY, who retired on a poam100

due to 11lnems at the and of 1963)

KGB, ArDonIAn SER

Chafran: Major Ceneral BADANYANTS

ChIef, Bad Departmeats Col, DALALYAN

Chio! of a Boction, and Department: MANTIROGOV

Deputy Chairman: Cod. A. MINIUOV

CAlos, 20d Dopartnons: L8. Col, ALIBEY, G.A.

Joction Chles, And Dept: MAJOr BANTSIRIT, Y.

BostIon Chlor, 20d Dept: TARIVIRDIYTY

CHIes, OTO (OporatiTO telhalcheekly OtUel): MULLYSY

+8-5-6-2557

12

---

## Page 10

" .

-

- 6-

Gor ROvakHya OblIBE

ChIeR, UKOB: MaJOr GoDoral GORSAKOY

Chief, 20d Dept VIGB: Col. GAYAZNOV, k.

SiaPerOpol'BRAre ObluBt

Sinceropol'B¿aya ObLaBE USGB Heproment:11vo 1a Yalta:

LAZAREY

Kuybyshovakays Oblast

Chief VEGB: KREMLEY

Vlad131 raksya Oblcat

ChIef VAGE: Col. V.A. IATIN (tomerly chiot of it

epartment, iod Chief Directorate, KGES

4101 UXGB: Col. KAYDALs (SOmerly Chio! Of 2n

¡rectorate, KGB Of the Beloruasian $5a

OdeBskaya Obluet

Deputy Chlo! UKGB: BAMDURISTYY (formerly deputy chios

of the and Directorato, KOB Of the

Ukra10160 582-1958)

Doptuy Caler, And Dapartzent SaILOr

Chior, 3nd Directorate: SMIRNOV

Chief of a separtment, 2nd Diructorate: GRUZDEY

Deputy Chial Of a Department: Y. SUDARIKOV

LagAdaRkRys 00168:

Chief UKGB:

Col. I.N. BABLYOY (1n 1602 vas chle! of &

noction of the and Chial Arectorte, K3B)

13

---

## Page 11

i.="

DITE CP I. Ta.TIEd 20 Det. 1564

&i Who tros tho and lopazzaont 1n tehgorod vorkod With your

A: Tie Chiel of the and Department.

oblest'.

Q: West von the ssoat's job or posillon so 0'09sa?

A: I don't kios, and I vasa'e interosted In anting his.

Q: How did the nanat retura do Ocolsi

Al I don't inow. I varn't Interated. This la the work of

say zad Dagutrent, Jas, Urbgorod.

Tho guy had his role

to play. He came, did ile part, mad lert.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAN

14

---

## Page 12

'simulati a lice

g1084!89°

101... 1968

TIe 2188199

Depre dijo: a seine.

bi1g s1.108s.

Al1e1'".

(HIS

10611912:98.

т:1908811

1t:11d0

er lock

•:*030.

A: On the 219 or örd tier.

Q:

Here mat

Jan the hueal?

A: I dune romerbes, due do the dan solel.

Q: Bolore you arriand in lahpurod had you ween l.

A:

In Moscoe I saw his photograph and the operatloal

pictures tral voip vado.

Did sou sake any talephone calle or send ary telegrass

Lo bise on?

A:

Thes vas dune by the and Departent an lahgorod, L'vor.

and sti

They

uged viCh.

1 told then lo du

nothink

Jin boor and Minal, nothere. no surrelllance.

nochang.

Q: "he hotel did you stay la in l'vor?

A: I don't remaber.

.. That solel did jou slay to in Miask?

A: I don't remerbor. So - Noral Belorussla.

Q: ThIeh officers helped you la L'viv?

A: 1 was not by a nur.

I don't know big nano.

I needed

nuRbid. JumP a car fron the alpore lo the cIty.

the eventor ned

Tad to y

Q: Which officers helped vou in Miook?

I vulled thor office ind said a dadn°nood anytha.d..

so i70l state a pat

---

## Page 13

14-00000

& spoke trare with the iliard el the &tr

1101019t41

Deputy Chief of the ind

Dir petorite AGE tolo-durala, inal Lalettes.

16

---

