# 104-10177-10072

## Page 1

104-10177-10072

INFORMATION REPORT

COUNTRY

MAUECT

Penna Cuba

Cuban Aspirations in United Nacions

DATE OF IN7O.; 1a March 1955

PLACE ACQUIRED FAtAA, PRINTA ClEY (8 March 2955)

its die it.

Bama 1039559190 paid Alabid 10,014 did 1900?.

and on +44 4541710381 de serpidly of prich in

129 BACHAT tO AS INSIDESOS BETWE

NOFURN/CONCINTED WONTROL

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. OF PAGES

REQUIREMENT NO.

REFERENCES

C5 - 60900

13 April 1955

1

RD

SOURCE:

ME SOURCE IVAIUATIONS IN THIS REPORT ARE DEFIMITIVE

THE ADPRAISAL DE CONTINE iS TENTATIVE

(50R KEY SEE PINPESE)

Person with excellent contacts in Panazanian Governnent (B).

Appraisal of Content: 2.

Do Not Reproduce

Background Use Only

RETURN TO CIA

1. On 4 March 1955 Emilto NUNEZ Portuondo, Cuban Ambassalor to the United Nations,

wrote to Octavio FABREGA, Panamanian Minister of Foreign Relations, regarding

Cuban aspirations for a seat on the Security Council in the U. N. General

Assembly which is scheduled to meet in November 1955.

NUNEZ wrote that after

seven months in the Ministry of Labor Fresident Fidgencio BATISTA had offered him

his choice of any Ministry, the post at ine Embassy in Washington, or continuation

a3 Cuban Ambassador to the U. Mo, which post he had accepted.

2.

NUNE? recalled

that In the U. N. General Assembly of last soar Cuba had aspired

to a seat on the Security Council and had had the

pronise of Panamanian supporg

In this matter; horever, Cuba had withdrawn when Peru claimed precedenco in 1ta

rint to a sest on the security vowill

He also indicated that at present

Cuba is soliciting support, through its diplomatic representatives,

for a seat

on the Security Gouncil which will meet in November 1955,

and, because at present

there is no other Latin Anerican member of the U. N. with similar

aspirations,

ha doos

not anticipate any conilict of interest.

NUNE stated that the Cuban

request for support had been replied to affirnatively by Chilo, Argentina, Hon-

duras, Haiti, Costa Rica, the Dominican Rapublic, El Salvador, and Pers

3.

NUME? then

asked FABREGA to roply favorably as quickly as possible to the Cuban

request for support in this matter.

NUNS? added that if he becomes a member of

the Security Council FABREGA may consider that he will represent Panma as well

as Cuba. He reminded FABREGA that, because of recommendations which NUNEZ made,

Cuba voted tri the General Assembly for Ricardo ALFARO, Panamanian Jurist, for a

position on the Intornational Court of Justice as well as a position on the In

tornational lur Cormission, when this was requested by the Panamanian Govemment.

B-02-0404

122.213

125-93

S-B--R-CT

NOPORN, CONTIHUED CONTROL

* пр

•HAVA

•al.

16-7

MiREC

HZP-2323

Ho Projant

53 - 00 0 00

TAN NE

1 444

Ja

---

