# 104-10075-10225

## Page 1

104-10075-10225

PS SECRET

ROUINE

*87

i DIRECTOR

OH • C/SAS 5

STION.

DOP, ADOP, D/06/2, VR

SE 69 ET 2722402

DIP CITE WAVE 8295

IN 69411

DIAT ITYPIC A PANTY FEDGU COMMO

REESE A. WAVE ROGA (IN 66850)

MAUS COY! (19 66867

C. WAVE BET (IW

66868>

D. NAVE BOTA (W 6GB83)

E. VAVE RITS (1 (67 242)

F.

WAVE 9198 (IN 67216)

P. HAVE 8126 (IN 67381)

.%.

TEL IS TORNATION DE PETE A TURU ?.

A. AJ, ENTERINE DIRECILY THE FLAGE. TEODIRD IS IN CHARGE OF

JUS "ICILANCE DE KARAT DRE. ARLE, UHO IS BNIRAL'S PAF, IS IN CHAPFE OF

LADAT TUD.. DOCTOR SITENES IS IN CHIPE OF THE INTELLICENCE FOR KARAT.

JIE. THIS VAS ORA JIFERS USTIED NIS PANCHO VILLA IN KIRE BEFIRE.

ACURIS®

446.

TITO-THEE

ARE DATA CY LAVID'S RAN ARD TIED

FUNGISIS DATA DEL BILLDOZER

30 MARS

3 Do

SON IN 193S DE DO NOT RAVE THE DAY AND EDGIN

saw of

A R

HARKS IN THE LATER SUPRY LINE OF BOCA DEL CLAFRE. IS PAPRILO

LIVES OTE SION DF 999E DE

11044

---

## Page 2

14-00000

¡" RICEITIUNG, DATA ON EL PIRATA. JOSE TEMPRANA CARMONA.

ALIAS IL

NING. IF CUTER UN THE LA ITOSE ADAT WITH A & MORSE PONER MOTOR UHO

VILL WPA IN RECOFT IONSO: 9B YEARS QD.

SORN IN SOCA PALAFRE ON 19

HAS A CHILDREN®

FISHERPAN. CONTINUES.

MA:

LIVES IN POCA DE CLAVRE.

MANE OF MIS SOAT 'IS

DATA ON EL VICH ANTES

INIC MM

(ales son

PIXEG ITE SOUGE TO LOGATE THE RADIO OPERATOR.

EGIN ON TO SEMIMSER 1EG

StN -OF

AND

LI'ES ON THE

ON THE HIGHAY OF SAN JUAN DEL CALAFE

IWEL LATEN SN THE COORDINATES.

DATA

ON APARIEN MIS SAFI HOUSE.

56 YEARS

20 .

99 275 DRENER 1008. SON OF

RANKIED

AND HAS A CHILDREN LIVSS

CONT INUES.

D. #6 FARMER. I UIL LATER SEND YOU THE EXACT LOCATION PY

RAPS ON COLIERI. RECEIVED YOUR RESSAGE 82•

ACURES:

- "s

47. 6870 YOU GHIELD HARN SALLO THE CREAT DANCER ARTACAN

IS 1U IP NE REVEANO ANTPEIMS DU THE TYPE OF WIRK THAT NAS ENTRUSTED TO

HI" IN CULA VENILL NO USE POSITION COT TRA ABIN, ME ARE AHAITING

FD VUS FRO RECHO VILLA IF ME MAS REIRISVED CACHE NORTE TIRLE.

FLACIDO NOTRO MONTE POLA TIE COCKE YOU TOLD HIS VAS LOCATED DU PRONT

LATISPERE THIS ME DIER FOURO DY A TINER UNO DEL IVIRZO ALL

TH CORPI TOTES LITIS IRICIVED TI TSEG

O, "T VEN TEOL TSEONDE ERISUS IS PY EL PIEDS'S LETTER.

Fa 1257

5328563:043 000 9800203

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-CLASSIFIEET MESSAGE

SECRET

OTTA PAGE

FACT DEY. IHERE A PUFLIC DEMANSTDATION WAS GIVEN IN FOLLOWINE THE TRAIL

A'E TIDICA YA THROUGH DESTACLES, SUCH AS SUGAR CANE, WEEDS, AND SO

CU. THESE ANIALS APE NO IN SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS. SOURCE OF

I'SO ATION, DUNER OF FAR" ADJACENT TO THE TOLEDO SUGAR FACTORY:

TEC DO INFORMED. REPORTED MY ANTONIO ON IS NOVEMBER. AQUILES.

1506

OTT?, RECEIVED MESSACE NUMBER 87. AQUILES.

WAVE COMMENTS& RE REF. A. KARAT. ONE AND TWO REFER IO OPERATION

302 0L8

NO VAVE TRACES SUPJS REF 9.

AND REF C. REF E. SAULD REFUGEE

lai neit

TO DRO

I COT A IS CAN I PRE

CECPET

---

