# 104-10182-10072

## Page 1

104-10182-10072

URN CARAT MATED

HUS SHACT COMITTE ME ASSASSILATIOTS STORE HEROES

TILL TITLE ASIER/OL:

201-259910

LIVingStON. WERBEL

111

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATINY:

1ai: 224 Tron For 22

R00':

DELETIONS, IF AVY: CUSAN ARENCY SERES (FiLETE.)

DATE

TAN:

PECEIVED PETURNED

(PRINT SANE)

3/3/78|3/3/78 DAN HArdwAY

STINATURE OF

REVIETISG OFFICIAL

Dan Hardway.

SO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROT THIS FILE.

201258910

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

•nine fliadin

INFORMATION REQUEST

SLEJECT OR OTHER INDIVIDIAL INDEXED IN THIS DOSSIER IS INVOLVED IN A REQUEST

UNDER

(CHECK ONE)

PRIVACY ACT

FOLA

OGC/OLC

OTHER (Specify nature of

request under remarks)

SUBJECT OF REQUEST:

FILE NO.

MITCHELL LIANGATN WERBELL TD

DOCUMENT SYMBOL, NO. &DATE 11l reques is on orner man subiner of 2011

201-259910

REQUEST NO.:

P76-78

DATE COMPLETED

APRIL 1977

DATE APPEALED (le applicable)

REMARKS

DO NOT FILE ABOVE THIS FORM

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM FROM THIS FILE

f65 3955

CONFIDENTIAL.

CL OY: 009818

---

## Page 3

OUTGOING MESSAGE

¿ ya

Too

072/S6

0 ÷

0

22-4.

SECRET

150008 1404 DIATON

toNy. +048 0109280

0220042

CIA

960121

COME: /CA 8

INFO:

DISSEM BY: C4

/PES/ 152, A66/000, 10ms 2, yel;

BATHE PO

PER SO

0003, 000/00

TO: " FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTN: R K MCHARGUE/GENERAL

#132

INVESTIGATIVE BONDIVISION. Y

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS Y

CIN-S26/00302-77 V

SUBJECT: BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNIJED STATES:

NAME TRACE, MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III Y

REF: FBI CABLE REQUEST

DATED 14 JANUARY 1937.4

•I• THE FILES OF ¡HIS AGENCY CONTAIN CONDIDERAGLE INFORMATION ON

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III, BORN & MARCH I9LA IN PHILADELPHIA,

PENNSYLVANIA. THE MAJORITY OF THE INFORMATION WAS FURNISHED BY YOUR

BUREAU. THIS AGENCY PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED THE FBI WITH INFORMATION ON

WERBELL UNDER CSCI-3/773327 OF 24 OCTOBER 1962, SUBJECT WERBELL.

MITCHELL L.I AND CSCI-316/02323-69 OF 27 JUNE 1969, SUBJECT WERDELL.

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON III. IN ADDITION, THIS AGENCY FURNISHED YOUR

BGEANGUREAU WITH MEMORANDA CONCERNING SUBJECT MITCHELL LIVINGSTON

WERBELL III DATED 27 JUNE 1974. 81 AUGUST 1974, 9 AUGUST $1974, AND

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

ENT:

thummin london tower a de

Arrant wet

€ ?

IMPDET

---

## Page 4

OUTGOING MESSAGE

000

OMF

0

BSECRET

40W7015066799

• CONF:

FAg

0

0

0

2

CIA

INFO:. FILI

980128

DISSEM BY:

SO ANGER

ASTURE TD

PER

0 31s

12 AUGUST 1974: V

2. VERBELL HAS NEVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY THIS MAGENCY NOR DOES M

THE AGENCY HAVE ANY OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN HIM. WERBELL WAS A

COMMISSIONED OFFICER WITH THE OSS DURING WORLD WAR II AND SERVED IN

THE CHINA-BURMA-INDIA THEATRE: IN AUGUST OF 1959: THIS AGENCY MOBOTAGOD

CONSIDERED LSING WERBELL AS A SOURCE OF INFORMATION ON REVOLUTIONARY

ACTIVITIES IN THE CARIBBEAN AREA: PARTICULARLY CUBA, BUT TERMINATED

ITS CONSIDERATION OF HIS POSSIBLE USE IN OCTOBER 1959R WHEN IT WAS

DETERMINED THAT HIS INFORMATION WAS OF LITTLE VALUE AND IT WAS

SUSPECTED THAT HE WOULD USE THEPROPOSED CONNECTION WITH THE AGENCY TO

HIS

PROMOTE/ PERSONAL INTERESTS. y

3. DURING AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER 1962 REPORTING ON WERBELL REVEALED

THAT HE VISITED SEVERAL CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES AND APPEARED TO BE

CONTACTING OFFICIALS OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF GUATEMALA: NICARAGUA AND

EL SALVADOR FOR THE PURPOSE OF OBTAINING RECOGNITION OF DU"DE FACTO"

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE CALLED THE "UNITED ORGANIZATION FOR THE

LIBERATION OF CUBA:" IN DISCUSSIONS WITH NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT

REPRESENTATIVES, WERBELL CLAIMED THE PROPOSED. CUBAN EXILE GOVERNMENT

DATE:

091G:

UNIT:

EXT:

E

→ detent f

IMPDET

F.

---

## Page 5

OUTGOING:

MESSAGE

#GRAL CRATERUSEONLY

0

D

SECRET

.0

DE

PA0Aв

3

DATA THAN BECA

CIA

•DISSEM GY:

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

980121

• D

PER

HAD THE SUPPORT OF NINETY SEPARATE CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATIONS AND

186:000 CUBAN EXILES. HE ALLEGEDLY. OFFERED À NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT

OFFICIAL SCREECISE! $100,000 TO OBTAIN THAT GOVERNMENT'S RECOGNITION a

OF THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE. Y

S. "IN DECEMBER 2965, WERBELL SPOKE TO A MIAMI CONTACT OF THIS

AGENCY AND TOLD HIM THAT HE AND SIX CUBAN EXILES IN THE UNITED STATES

HAD ORGANIZED À GROUP, INCLUDING APPROXIMATELY TUENTY CUBANS INSIDE

CUBA, TO PERFORM A COMMANDO OPERATION IN CUBA IN EARLY JAYUARY 1966:

THEIR PRIMARY MISSION WAS THE ASSASSINATION OF CUBAN PREMIER FIDEL

CASTRO, UITH-THE SECONDARY MISSION BEING THAT OF BLOWING UP THE POWER

GENERATORS THAT SUPPLY THE ELECTRICITY TO HAVANA: WERBELL, AT THE ..

TIME: STATED THAT HE WAS TRYING TO GET THE "GREEN LIGHT» FROM THE CIA

TO PROCEED WITH THE MISSION, AND INFERRED THAT THE MISSION WOULD BE

ABORTED IF SUCH APPROVAL WAS NOT OBTAINED. ENOTE: THIS AGENCY WAS

IN AND BNDEAVOR.)

NOT IN CONTACT WITH WERBELLODD IN ANY WAY UHATSOEVERAY

b. IN EARLY 1969 WERBELL WAS IN THAILAND REFRESENTING HIMSELF AS

VICE PRESIDENT OF SIONICS, INC. OF ATLANTA, GEORGIA. HE IDESCRIBED

HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY EXPERT, CLAIMED TO BE A RETIRED.

DATE:

041G:

UNit:

EXT:

cratinkar: +1 0500-6818

AUTHENTICATES ORDER

IMPDET

r.:

RY n,2003

---

## Page 6

OUTGOING MESSAGE

D

SCO CONTIRUSEON

0

mate

0

0

Pande

4

SECRET

CIA

CONF:

INFO:

FILE,

980121

0

DISSEN BY:

10 min

- 0

PER

00 103.131

COLONELi AND INTRODUCED HIMSELF AT A LOCAL NIGHTCLUB

AS THE CHIEF OF

80668N7

CIA IN THAILAND. INOTE: WERBELL. WAS E THE CIA CHIEF OF STATION IN

THAILAND NOR CASTE AFFILIATED WITH CIA IN ANY WAY. WERBELL

ATTEMPTED TO SELL EXOTIC WEAPONS TO THE THAIS AND TO TRAIN THEM IN

- COUNTERINSURGENCY WARFARE. Y

•2. WERBELL ALLEGEDLY OPERATES THROUGH À NUMBER OF FRONT

BUSINESSES, ONE OF WHICH IS CALLED THE CENTRAL INFORMATION AGENCY U

(CIAS. IN SOME OF HIS DEALINGS WERBELL BROADLY HINTS THAT HE HAS

CONNECTIONS WITH THIS AGENCY. Y

8.. THIS AGENCY HAS INFORMATION PIL

SIT DONE OF THE

TYPES OF MEADOURY THAT PENDARMERRELI, PUROORTS TO SELL'OPE:SCAPINS

158100° dir

•TO YOUR BABUAGEEUNERN LEREAUSE

T4DAN

HOLABUREAU. Y.

JEE. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM -

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-O. II6S2 EXEMPTION CATEGORY

58

DATE:

ORIG:'

UNIT:

EXT:

(283).

IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATIONH

FERRUARY 1977

C/LA/SB/CH

1471

liversh

CAPCSILSN

ten.

CILA/COG/OPS- WM. DEVINE

(IN DRAFT)

506/5/M5S-

GABONESS

1..!

E

IMPDET

rv.

---

## Page 7

005-77-070-9

1 February 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

ATTENTION.

.: Associate Deputy Director for Operations

FROM

: Walter T. Lloyd

Associate General Counsel

SUBJECT

: Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

I: - As you are aware, on the instruction of United States

District Judge Peter Fay (Miami, Florida Division), incident to

the Drug Enforcement Administration's prosecution of Subject

for conspiracy to import and distribute multi-ton loads of

marijuana, the undersigned made a detailed review of the files

of this Agency concerning Subject in August 1976. This exami-

nation was to ascertain any data that ran to Werbell's guilt or

innocence of the offense charged and any other data reflecting the

nature of the relationship between Werbell and the U.S. Government..

This latter requirement was grounded on the Court's view that

Werbell's voluntary reporting to the Agency and any government

condonation of his activities might be exculpatory in the eyes of the

jury.

2. In response, we reviewed the files, identified Agericy

contacts with Subject and prepared to affidavits: one regarding

non-employment by Mr. B. DeFelice and the second regarding

Werbell's relationship to the Agency by the undersigned. Copies

are attached. During the trial the first affidavit was shown to

counsel for Werbell by DEA counsel, Mir. Sam Sheres, at which

point defendant's counsel stipulated that lerbell was never a

formal employee of the Central Intelligence Agency. Sheres

subsequently returned the affidavits to the undarsigned at the

conclusion of the trial.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY: 059605

---

## Page 8

3. Regarding the relationship of Herbell to the Agency, as

approved by the Deputy Director, the undersigned appeared before

Judge Fay in his chambers on 31 August and under oath answered

questions of the Court concerning lerbell. A copy of the transcript

of that proceeding is attached. You will note that judge Fay requested

that all pertinent government records be mace arailable to the Court

for its inspection. Accordingly, copies of Ageney files were reproduced.

culled for "Brady-type" documents, excised to protect sources and

methods under the "SkiP case criteria" and reviewed and approved by

Assistant DD/O on the evening of l September.

These processed

documents were then handcarried to Miami by the undersigned on

2 Scptember.

4. The undersigned advised Judge Fay at 0330 hours on

2 September that I had in my possession copies of all of the Agency

files on Werbell, had culled them as to possible "Brady" documents

and was prepared to review them with the Judge at his convenience.

He was on the bench with a tight schedule and asked that the possible

Brady documents first be reviewed by Karen Atkinson, the principal

counsel for the prosecution. The undersigned subsequently briefed

Atkinson on the nature of data in the possible Brady documents. This

resulted in a significant redurtion in the number of possibles. The

undersigned gave Atkinson copies of the four unclassified OGC

documents related to the DOD revocation of Werbell's security clearance

in 1971. In addition, Office of Security documents edited and approved

for release to Werbell under his Freedom of Information and Privacy

Act requess (Tabs Arand B of OS response), consisting of media

publications and security investigative data, were also provided

Atkinson. Due to counsel for Werbell raising an issue on Werbell's

use of a boat named "Venus" belonging to CIA, a declassified copy

of the OS short investigative report outlining data concerning Werbell's

use of the Venus to transport arms was also provided Atkinson. The

related OS Headquarters assignment document was not provided.

Related DDO documents on the ownership of Venus by the "JURE"

Cuban group were mentioned to Atkinson but rot rade available.

5. While the above documents were provided the Department of

Justice with the understanding they could be passed to Counsel for

lerbell due to subsequent events noted below, it is not certain that

this occurred. Specifically, the undersigned declined to release

additional "Brady" documents without consultation and instructions

CS!

---

## Page 9

from the Court. The requested mecting was put off by Judge Fay and

defendanto subsequently rested their case. The DOJ had little else

to add and the case went to the jury about noon on 3 Sept mber. All

the remaining copies of Agency ducuments were returned to Headquarters

by the undersigned the evoning of 3 September, On 4 Septunber the

ju'y returned a verdict of "not quilty." As a result, the bulk of

"Brady-type" Agency documents or Werbell was not provided to

counsel for Werbull and Judge Fay reviewed no Agency documents.

It should be noted all copies of documents taken to Miami were excised

in accord with the "SWP case criteria" and on return to Headquarters,

these were destroyed by the undersigned.

As a related matter, on 16 November Mr. Arthur Egbert

of the Interna! Security Division of the DEA contacted the undersigned

seeking background information on Werbell. The undersigned suggested

Egbeft first review the files of the FBI on Werbell as most of the data

we have is contained in FBI reports.

Should FBI data be insufficient

for his needs I süggested he seek access to our files in DO and Office

of Security via the normal DEA Department of Justice liaison channels.

Walk stagd

Walter T. Lloyd

Attachments:

(1) Affidavit - DeFelice

(2) Affidavit - Lloyd

(3) Transcript of Hearing of USDC for Southern District of Florida,

August 31, 1976.

CC:

Jerry Brown, SAG/OS, w/o atts

Ed Montgomery, LD/SRCH/DDO, w/o atts

w...

---

## Page 10

OGC 76-0344

21 Fobruary 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG

Chief, DCD

Chief, LA Division

SUBJECT

: Mitchell Livingston Werbel III

184003

1. I was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that

Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on 29 March

in Miami, Florida. The charges relate to importing and distributing

quantities of marijuana. With Werbel's propensity to raise his past

affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate problems during this trial.

An additional problem is presented because l'erbel is defended by Edwin

Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk in the B-26 case in

Buffalo, New York in 1966. It was Edwin Marger who subpoenaed the CIA

General Counsel as a'defense witness.

2. The Justice Department has received information that a person

either currently or formerly affiliated with the CIA has been participating

in lerbel's meetings with his attorney. It would be appreciated if all

tions be sent to Miami that no, repeat no, contact with Werbel take place.

between now and the beginning of the trial.

It would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary

of the various contacts Werbel has had with ClA in the past. Please check

to see if you have any information on a Colonel Bayard who was killed irs

Allanta, Georgia during the summer of 1975. Bayard, reportedly an

associate of Werbel's, had previous contacts with the Agency. It would

be appreciated if your responses could he received by close of business

I threa

/ Johnik. Greaneja

A Suchite Gineral Counsel

3.44

---

## Page 11

OUTGOING

HIGHL CHUTE HUBECALY

MESSAGE

6

2

40 *

OMF O

• D

0

0

0

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

COME: , P/OPS Into:

FILE

DATA PIE SOUT

2702002

€rтg

WASHINGTON

634069

DISSEM BY: 45

PER

TO:

FROM:

LA/CAR Y

0.ca i

SUBJECT E MITCHELL LIVINGSTONE bERBEL III Y

REF: UFPA -1860, 9 JUNE 1975 Y

Be PLAN

1. MITCHELL LIVINGSTONE WERBEL III, WHO IS ONE OF THE PERSONS

MENTIONED IN THE DEA REPORT QUOTED IN THE REFERENCE, HAS BEEN

INDICTED ON CHARGES RELATING TO THE IMPORTATION AND DISTRIBUTION

OF MARIJUANA: Y

pict

1021:2 10 TRA

18-5 13. (2. 3).

2• WHILE WE HAVE SO FAR UNCOVERED NO BKHERALD CONNECTION

WITH WERBEL, THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE HAS.

RECEIVED INFORMATION

THAT A PERSON EITHER CURRENTLY OR FORMERLY AFFILIATED WITH BHERALD

HAS BEEN PARTICIPATING IN WERBEL'S MEETINGS WITH HIS ATTORNEY. Y

3. FURTHERMORE, SINCE WERBEL HAS IMPLIED CAPPARENTLY FREQUENTLY}

• IN THEPAST THAT HE HAS HAD BKHERALD CONNECTION OR SUPPORT IN HIS

QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITIES: LARGELY INVOLVING ARMS AND AMMUNITION.

THERE: IS A BODARSBHUTA POSSIDILITY THAT HE MIGHT ATTEMPT IN ONE

HAY OR ANOTHER TO IMPLICATE BKHERALD •IN HIS CURRENT PROBLEM. WE

THEREFORE REQUEST THAT YOU COMPLETELY AVOID WERBEL OR ANYONE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EIT:

3,43

RECORD. COPY

ГЛАВНАСАТА

SECRET.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

27 tel-16

261-25-9910

E 2

•CL• BY:

IMPDET

• 0129130

---

## Page 12

OUTGOING MESSAGE

GORAL CONTE

OMF O

CLARIATIN

SECRETA

singe tien

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

conf:

INFO: FILE

TR - TIN

HASHINGTON

0

• DISSEM BY:

814069

0

РЕД

CLAIMING TO REPRESENT HIM SHOULD HE ATTENPT SOME CONTACT WITH THE

STATION.

WILL RECEIVE SIMILAR INSTRUCTIONS-J Y

4..

THE COS HAS BEEN INFORMED OF THE FOREGOING AND CONCURS. Y

S• FILE: 201-259960 E2-109027050

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

ЕКТ:

26 FEB 76

LA/CARE

1497

WILST

ACILAKAR

SECRET.

REPRODUCTION LATHER THAN THE ISSUING ETICES PROMIER

WILS

SCALINCAR

E 2.

• CL BY: 012913

---

## Page 13

GUTGOING

SIGHALEI

MEsS. 6a

53=2

OMF O

: 0

SECRET

MARBO: 4060040-9709

STAFF

CONF: EURE

2026 a

0

LH: CAN 1

cITe

DIRECTOR

INFO:

'FILE

0

15 E62,

110ß5

780309

DiSSEM BY: 45

вативь во

TPES

TO:

INFO

O in once

KEYUAY FORRES

REFS: A.

lIN 7584651 EBEING RELAYED TO

B. DIRECTOR 769406 NA

DIRECTOR 670514 O/NOT HEEDED

PRIOR TO RECEIPT REF A, HOS ADVISED BY SECRET SERVICE THAT

THERE HAD BEEN NO FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS IN REF B CASE CONCERNING

EMMANUEL KASSELAKIS AND STAVROS SYKOPETRITIS AND THAT KASSELAKISE

STORY NOW CONSIDIRED TO BE BOGUS. SECRET SERVICE FURTHER ADVISED THAT

KASSELAKIS PROVIDED OTHER INFORMATION WHICH ALSO CONSIDERED SUSPECT

CONCERNING ARMS TRANSEACTIONS AND THAT THIS INFORMATION PASSED TO NEU

YORK BASE• SECRET SERVICE SUSSEQUENTLY CONFIRMED TIlAT REF A INFORM-

ATION WAS RECEIVED FROM KASSELAKIS. Y

2. UNABLE TO IDENTIFY GEORGE STRATOS. Y

3. FOR

WELLER IS NI

R IS MITCHELL L. VERMBELL $201-

259910} OF REF C.Y

4. SAMUEL SCRIVENER JR., WASHINGTON ATTORNEY, EMPLOYED BY

BKHERALD IN EARLY 1950'S AS CONSULTANT. Y

DATE:

UNIT:

EXT:

35120

20.222 E:22028

-.St

"CRET

3.42

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUIPIG OFTICE IS PROMIC ILO

INODET

CL: BY: 060757

---

## Page 14

SUICOLG MESSAGE

cos

8600

OMF

0

C1A: D1 4 47898

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

D

0

0

cha Tel. Penig e

0

2

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

0

280.389

5. ENABLE TO IDENTIFY DOMINICAN COMPANY-Y

+=51-2579101

6. FILE:

202-889547; X REF 203-060338- E2 IMPDET.r

DISSEM BY:

PER

anu!

DATE:

ORIG:

LiriT:

EXT:

LEBECENCER 1925

VAMW

EIGC

144)

N-?.

illaden

C/FR/2

*-p80Rm0 consin

OPS/LSA/IDEIN SUBSTANCES

•iERFT

E/EXOCIN SUBSTANCES

3,-17

carpan

• REPRODUCTION AY OPHIR THALTAL ISSUÃG C.FICE IS PROMIdiTIO

CH/EIGC

aLTE met A

E Z

POPDET

по. Nitit?

---

## Page 15

1-28 856. 9195

CABLE BIC DISSEMB

39

"i": 39

TOTAL COrNS 108 2

SECRÉY

MASON /UNTY NOTIO

STAFF

-ANYANSI COPY ISSUER SLOTINE

ACTICA UNIT

Eit 8

N

RO. FILE

iPlan, ERS, PS/EGa, IF

ACTiON "

014, LENio, cloPs,

55/5064

T 504729

El A 377

FAGE 01

TORIL216352: DEC 75

IN 758465

SECRET 4217592 DEC 75 STASE

CITE

TOU DIRECTORE

210-3

401- 259 910

COTT FOR

DO NOT DESTROY

KEYWAY FOR ES

1, LUCAL SECRET SERVICE REPORTS FOLLOHING FROM INFORMANT DEES-

TABLISHED RELIABILITY, ONE SECHGE STRATOS, LOCAL GREEK-AMERICAN DRE

CHESTRA LEACER, VISITED GYPRIOTE AMBASSADOR DIMITRIOU IN WASHINGTON

CA, 28 NOV TO SOLICIT HIS WILL INGRESS PURCHASE: 25 THOUSAND M-16 RIFLES

AT 5215 EACH I PRINSACTION PO EE CONSUMATED OUTSIDE U.S. DIMITRIOU

DECLINED ON GROLADS PRICE BUT REQUESTED STRATOS SUMIT FROPOSAL FOR

MANUFACUTRE AND SALE OF MHISH-EGWERED MARK I AND 1I HAND GUNS".

WEAPONS WOULD dE MANUFACTURED EY DOMINICAN COMPANY, TELEPHONE NUMBER

532-1018 RET S3Ê-1019, STRATOS AGREED WORK UP DETAILS.

ZO ADDITIORAL DETAILS FROVIDED BY INFORMANT: ONE OF NINE PARI

NERS OF STRATOS IS ONE MITEM DELER, WHO STRATOS CLAIMS IS SCAMER

BANERALD, STRATOS WASHINGTON ATTORNEY IS SAM SCHRETUNER IPHOND,

TELEPHONE 82EZ) 296-2950, STRATOS CLAIMED MOLO'S AND 4OZ MOGE MACHINE

GUNS HE ALSO WISES SELL REPRESENT UAS. ARMS LOST INDOCHINA.

3, SECRET SERVICE OFFICES LAND OF GREEK BACKGROUNDY REDORIS

STRATOS WAS CLOSE TO PAPADGECULES GOVERNMENT. AND NOTES THAT LARGE

SECRET

BY OTTA 41

---

## Page 16

3.71:00 G. 8189

CABLÉ SEC DISSEN BY

PE SON/ NAIT NOTIFIED_

BRYANSALO

MIDISONE

RF. FILE

-.-

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

MinY

STAFF

vR

ACTION $

204725

FACE 02-022

TORI RE18352 DEC 23

IN 756465

AMOUNTS OF U.S, LEMS WERE DISCOVERED MISSING FROM GREEK ARMORIES WHEN

NEM GOVERNMENT TOCK INVENTORY IN 1974.

SO NO FILES EE IMPDES.

3.41

T12346001

---

## Page 17

The Owner of Guns Seized

In 1974 Will Sell Them

-Mitchell I HerBell 3d co

-Marieita has agrind to quit the

srms trade, which in the past

has frequenth, taroired him lo

in a deal anted out yester.

day before: a Federal Judge. Mr.

WerBell agreed that he would

ins mine ine min elling

runs if the Government

lowed him to sell. $325,000

worth of arms srized by Fed-

erel agents last: December.

The guns, called "the largest

collection of private guns in the'

world"

by Mr.

WerBell

and:

Federal attomers include 2.000

machine guns and silencers.

Mr. WerBell said his com-

pany. Defense Susiens Interna-le

tional, Inc., would continue "roir

do what we have always done!

-serve this coun!n."

He said he and his song havela

„plans so sell radios.

equipment

and

electronict

miliary sup

plies not covered by the agree-s

ment

5-7-75

NTTIMES

3,

, 4/0

---

## Page 18

FBI.

CABLE

DATED: 25 JUNE 1975

SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON

WERBELL II WILLIAM MARTIN

BELL NEUTRALITY MATTERS-

GRENADA

---

## Page 19

FBI docurient datid & July 1975.

from Atlanta, Ga.

3 Newspaper Articles Appearing!"?

The Atlanta

Constilution forwarded.

---

## Page 20

I. Hal

TELESSLES.

=03897

iCE: 3914093 JUid 75

34586

UF PA 41 860

CRET

TELEPÜUCH.

DISESTCH NG:

FILE NO

tr..

DATE

ATD

UFPA -1860

220-11+11/17: 196-9-1

: 6 JUNE 1975

CHIEF, LATIN AMERICA DIVISION

FROM

SUSJECT

ACTING CHIEF OF STATIONI

DEA/MIAMI REPORT ON POSSIBLE PLOT.

TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF GRENACA

1, STATION HAS RECEIVED A REPORT FROM DEA/MIAMI: ON A

POSSISLE PLOT TO OVERTHROW THE SOVERNMENT OF GRENADA,

STATION CONSIDERS THE REPORT SUSPECT BUT HAS SUGGESTED TO DEA

THAT SINCE FEI AND STATE DEPARTENT HAVE AN INTEREST IN SOME

OF THE INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED IN THE REPORT THAT A COPY OF IT

SE MADE AVAILABLE TO THEM. STATION ALSO PASSED TO DEA A LIST

OF GUSSTIONS FOR THEIR USE WHICH MIGHT ASSIST THEM IN OBTAINING

FURTHER DETÄILS ON THE PLOT AND HAS OFFERED TO PROVIDE THEM

*ITH PERTINENT. INFORMATION THAT MIGHT COME TO OUA ATTENTION

THROUGH STATION SOURCES, CORRECT NAME OF THE PROMINENT

CITIEEN OF GRENADA MENTIONED IN PARA 3 OF THE REPORT IS KEN

AULNE,

SECRET

3.31

4146-9.1

---

## Page 21

C

3:90,7

=$55

711092342 do: 75

2. FULLUNLES IS TEXT OF THE REPDAT, DEA MILNI

SEC-5-75-3-253. OF A JUNE, SENT SO DEA HAS AND FIELD STATION

SALTIMURE AED ATLANTA: DEA HOS REQUESTED PASS TO CARACAS

REGION:. "SUBJECT:

MITCHELL LA MERBELL 111,, ET AL FILE NO.

61-75-9105:

"IN THE COURSE OF DEVELOPING A MARIHUANA SMUGGLING

CONSPIRACY INVESTIGATION, MITCHELL LA VERGELLA TIÏ., ET AL,

G1-75-0105. THE MIAMI REGIONAL INTEILIGENCE UNIT HAS UNCOVERED

INFORMATION CONCERNING A PLAN TO OVERTHROW THE INDEPENDENT

GOVERNPENT OF GRENADA,

"THE PLAN, AS QUTLINED SELOW, IS A COMPOSITE OF

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM ONE WILLIAM BELL, A DEFENDANT IN THE

SUBJECT INVESTIGATION, VIA HIS CONVERSATIONS WITH UNDERCOVER

AGENTS AND A COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL,

"THE PLAN CALLS FOR THE LANDING OF 35 APMED MEN ON

GRETADA DURING THE LATE EVENING HOURS OF A SATURDAY IN MID OR

LATE JULY 1975. THE REVOLUTIONARIES WILL APFEAR TO BESCOTTISH

MEHGENARIESO SUT IN FACT WILL BE AMERICANS.

THS LANDING TIME

HILL COINCIDE WITH THE NORYAL SHUT DOIN TINE OF THE ISLAND'S

RADIO STATION.

THE PRIMARY OBJECTIVES OF THE LANCING GROUP

SECREP

÷ 33535

UEPA-1350

3.30

---

## Page 22

..=: 38

71919.2 5a:

75

THE SADICACOUUUNICATIONS FACILITIES. AIR

1'.=

SEA

PLATS. GELL WILL HEAD AN ASSAGSINATION SOURD WHICH

WILL 3E DIRECTED TO KILL ZA POLITICAL IND GIVERNMENT

FUNCTIONARIES, THE PLAN AUTICIPATES HAVING FULL CONTROL OF

THE ISLAND BY THE TIME THE ISLAND'S RADIO STATION WOULD

NORMALLY GO BACK ON THE AIR ON SUNDAY MORNING, THE COST

OF THIS OPERATION IS REPORTED TO BE 3 MILLION DOLLARS.

ONE KEN MILL OR MILLS (PHONETIC); A PROMINENT CITIZEN OF

GRENADA IS REPORTED TO HAVE CONTRIGUTED CRE HALF MILLION

COLLARS TO THIS OPERATION, AND WILL BE PUT UP AS THE HEAD

OF THE NEW GOVERNMENT IF THE TAKEOVER IS SUCCESSFUL, BELL

STATES THAT HE WILL BE ASSUMING CONTROL OF THE ARMED FORCES

AND. POLICE AGENCIES OF THE NEX GOVERÜMENT, BELL IS BELIEVEO

•TO BE MANUFACTURING WEAPONS AND PARTS FOR HEAPONS, HITHOUT

SERIAL NUMBERS, FOR THE OPERATION AT DEFENSE WEAPONS

INTERNATIONAL ENGINEERING AND RESEARCH INC.O P.O, BOX 771

DEERFIELD BEACH, FLORIDA, WITHOUS THE KIOWLEDGE OF THE

FIFM'S MANAGEMENT, WESBELL'S FOLE IN THE OPERATION IS

UNK OWN AT. THIS TIME,

*HERBELLO MITCHELL LIVINGSTON DIL, DUITE MALE.

SECRET

* 34335

UFPI-1653

3.3)

---

## Page 23

SECRE

184:2%

E!÷:97

$ 34935

UFF2.1959

10R:201÷002 Jun 75

¿ FORMER LODI OSS OFFICER, ECAN 3/8/18 AT

PHiLADELFHIA, PA.O

5FT. 6 112 INCHES TALL; 155 LBS.O BROWN

HA!R. BLUE EYES.

RUDDY COMPLEXTION, GRADUATE OF FORK UNION

MILITARY ACADEMY, RICHMOND. RA," AND THE CHARLES PRICE

SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM EXTENSION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF

PERNSYLVANIAD, AND

RESIDENT AT POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA.

HERBELL DOES NOT HAVE AN

§BI CRIMINAL RECORD, ALTHOUGH A

• 7/1/73 MIAMI HERALD TROPIC MAGAZINE ARTICLE REPORTED THAT HE

AND SEVEN OTHER PERSONS HAD BEEN INDICTED FOR CONSPIRACY TO.

: VIGLATE V.S. NEUTRALITY LANS, BUT THAT THE..CHARGES HERE.

DROPPED ON THE ORDERS OF THEN ATTORNEY GENERAL RAMSEY CLARK,

HIS INDICTMENT WAS REPORTEDLY THE RESULT OF HIS INVOLVEMENT

WITH A HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY GROUP DURING 1906, A 1974 ESCUISE

MAGAZINE ARTICLE DESCRIBES WERBELL'S INVOLVEMENT IN A COVERT

•POLITICAL MOVEMENT TO GAIN INDEPENDENCE FOR THE ISLAND OF

APACO. IN THE BAHAMAS, HERBELL IS ALLEGED TO BE A REGISTERED

DEALER ANDOR MANUFACTURER OF WEAPONS,

"BELL, WILLIAM MARTIN, WHITE MALE: SORI 6/27/28.

EST 2 INCHES TALLO 230 LES,, GRAY HAIR, NORTH CAROLINA DRIVERS'S

LICENSE RUMBER 2190095: RESIDING AT 4412 WATERBURY ROAD.

SECRET

3.37

---

## Page 24

5 c

<7.

21

F1::97

>16= 29

70 0: 17147 JUN. 75

SALEIGH, PORTH CAROLINA; BELIEVED TO DEAN EX-MARINE CORPS

PILOT DID ODIER OF THE MARINE REALTY AND DEVELOPMENT

CORPORATION. US ROUTE 1 - NORTHe RALEIGH. N.C.: BELL HAS BEEN

ARRESTED BY THE RALEIGY PD ON THE FOLLOWING CHARGES: CARRYING

* CONGEALED WEAPON AND DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE = 1973: AND

ISSUING A WORTHLESS CHECK - 1967,: BELL DOES NOT HAVE AN FBI

CRIMINAL RECORD.

" IN APRIL: 1975, IN ALLEGED FINANCIAL CIFFICULTY

NERBELL CONTACTED AN MIAMI RIO COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL AND

REQUESTED THE C/L'S ASSISTANCE IN SMUGGLING MULTI-TON QUANTITIES

OF COLOMBIAN MARIHUANA INTO THE VIS, MIAMI RIO UAC AGENTS.

ACTING AS PILOTISMUGGLERS AND COLOMBIAN SOURCE OF SUPPLY, MAVE

BEEN CONDUCTING NEGOTIATIONS WITH HERBELL AND BELL CONCERNING

THE FINANCING, AIR SMUGGLING AND DISTRISUTION OF MARIHUANA.

OTHER INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN THE CONSPIRACY TO DATE ARE WALLY

GILLIS, BELIEVED TO BE SUBJECT OF NADDIS RECORD NUKÖER 121207.

AND A RICK STEVENS AND A WILLIAM JORDAN, WHITE MALES, 22'S;

NO ADDITIONAL iD DATA AVAILABLE AT THIS TIME,

"CONSPIRACY TNVESTIGATION IS CONTINUING, ADDITIONAL.

INFORMATION RELATIVE TO NEUTRALITY WIOLATIONS WILL BE FORWARGED

SECRET

* 37506.

UPPA ÷1 369

3.J7

---

## Page 25

SECRET

TELEPOUCH

T. 276101

E1Ạ497

PAGE 06-06

..TOR: 0914042 JUN 75

UPON RECEIPT,. ONE UPG AGENT SPILOT) HAS BEEN APPROACHED BY

BELL TO TAKE PART IN THE GRENADA OPERATION.

_BRIEFED VERBALLY CONCERNING GRENADA

INFORMATION THIS DATES A COPY OF THIS INFORMATION WILL SE

FURNISHED TU U.S, CUSTOMS, ATF• L

JAT MIAMI.

JOHN A

LUND

JRO, REGIONAL DIRECTOR",

DISTRIBUTION;

3 - CALAD VIA TELEPOUCH

EZ, IMPDET,

• H

34585

UFPA -1860

SEGRET

3.3)

---

## Page 26

24 March 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR. THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Alleged Activities of. Walter Mackem

week: of March 9, I lunched with Mr. Wesley

• Dyckman is a

former Agency staffer currently employed

by the Drug Enforcement Agency.

During the course of our lunch=

eón conversation, the name of Halter Mäckem came up.. Dyckman

told me that Mackem, a JOT classmate of ours, had been fired by

the Agency. • According to Dyckman, Mackem is now employed in the

addition, accord-

Dyckman, Mackem is involved with a paramilitary activity

British source.

The activity, which

Dyckman referred to as "the new land project" seeks

to establish

shelter on one of the out-islands of the Caribbean by

forcefully

taking over the island and establishing a government

Mackem is supposedly involved in paramilitary training

forces who

would participate in this paramilitary adventure

to Dyckman, the paramilitary training supposedly

place in Georgia not far from Atlanta.

This is the extent of my conversation with Dyckman on-the

subject and I have no further information or details concern-

ing this.

SE/PCH

Orig

meet

OS/SAG

SE/SEC

LA/SO

E2

CL

IMPDET

BY

017709

3. 3'0

SECZEY

---

## Page 27

BIGMALCI

ar,8

OMF

SECRET.

0 83A08 n

LROADACATOS

STAFF

0

U

.0

32%

0

Dire Has 02000

1927572

DIRECTOR

0

0

gD 1

670S34

SISSEM or 0130.

PER

Al

wisier Alibals

TO":

AJAJA

FORRES y

REF:

NO ADDITIONAL HOS TRACES ON EDGAR LEMMENS AND CO. OTHER

TIRLEMONT.

THAN CONFIRMATION THAT IT LICENSED DEALER OF ARMS LOCATED IN/CERIT-

...SFLGIUM AND THAT IT IMPORTED FROM NEW YORK TO BELGIÜM A SILENT SUB-

MACHINE GUN WHICH LATER SHOWED UP IN SPAIN CONNECTED WITH BASQUE

ASSASSINATION. M

2: MICHELL L• WERBELL, III {201-259910} IS PARTNER OF DEFENSE

SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC. OF POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIANA LICENSED

ARMS DEALER. HE BORN & MAR 19J8, PHILADELPHIA. HAS HAS LENGATEY

201 ON WERBELL WHO HAS LONG HISTORY POPPING UP IN AREAS AND SITUATIONS

WHERE CAN MAKE FEW FAST BUCKS. HE CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS.

WHEELER-DEALER AND PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. HE OF OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN MID-1959 WHEN BECAME INVOLVED WITH ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTERS

IN DOMINICAN REPLiBLIC AND OFFERED PROVIDE KHERALD GITH INFO ON

RÉVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IN CARIBBEAN. HE GRANTED POA IN AUGUST

1959 BUT THIS CANCELLED OCTOBER 1959 WHEN HIS INFO PROVED BE OF

DATE:

ORIG:

UAIT:

EXT:

000090-8

3.35

COOPORTINO CONSIGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

petitio

201

bUTTI FIND DONICAL

E 2

IMPDET

Cb BY:

SECRET

---

## Page 28

100

DES

AgE

OMF D

0

diA, 50016a9000.

SE ONE CITOR

STAFF

CONF:

: 2

Date.

EiTe

INFO: FILE:

DIRECTOR

670514

8008K

DISSEM BY:

PER

LITTLE VALUE AND IT SUSPECTED THAT HE USING BKHERALD® FUNDS TO

PROMOTE PERSONAL INTERESTS. EVER SINCE, BKHERALD HAS BEEN DIS-

CLAIMING WERBELL WHO HAS REPEATEDLY ATTEMPTED PROMOTE SELF AS REP

OF LNeUZZ AND BHERALD.

SINCE MUCH OF BKHERALD INFO ON WERBELL

ORIGINATES LNERGO, NE SUGGEST LNERGO REP/NEU YORK PERFORM TRACE

THROUGH HIS OFFICIAL CHANNEL. CABOVE INFO MAY NOT BE PASSED FOREIGN

NATIONALS BECAUSE WERBELL WODUAL CITIZEN.} Y

3.

ONLY TRACE ON MITCHELL WERBELL IV IS THAT HE ALSO INVOLVED

FATHER'S

IN/9UE99H0 ARMS BUSINESS TRADE. HE HAS HAD NO CONNECTION WITH

BKHERALD. y

4.

FILE:

a01-918287, EZIMPDET.A

Into Almolly

NE/50.•

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT

EXT

17 MARCH 1925

71 WA

NE/ARN/I

C/FR/B2

HILARITO GUNCER

SEGRET

FR/@ 2.•

Fe luchor

Kistic

CODADMATISO OPSICARE

REPRODUCT - ¿ BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMOTED

FEATDENE/DO

AUTHOVTICATIRO DEANERO

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 025268

---

## Page 29

8.91 127G. Di76

CABLE BRE DIEBEL DO 15

FRRDONIUNIT NOTIANO_

ICTAL CORE 2 3 2

SECRET

-ARYANGE GAPI LINIR SLOTiED

ACTION UNIT

NE10

FILE

N

F

VR

IP/AN, ER5, LSN/1D,

c/OPS

, 01/002

T 831908

E14365

PAGE 01

TORMEAIOBOZ MAR 7S

6413352 MAR 75 STAFF

#EPRODUCTION HY OTHED THAN

INBUING SPICE IS SIGNINITRO

STAFF

1N

511214

$ E

C

A

CITE

TO! DIRECTOR.

AJAJA FORRES

REF A.

UND W 6325

. 8..

741473676)

1, SUBJ REFS, ALAAL-DIN AL-TAYYAR OF THE IRAQI MUN. IS STILL OF

CURRENT INTEREST TO FBI WHICH HAS HIM UNDER PERIODIC OBSERVATION.

TAYYAR MAS BEEN IN BAGHDAD ON HOLIDAY FOR PAST SEVERAL WEEKS AND FBI

HOPES MAKE OPERATIONAL APPROACH TO HIM SHORTLY AFTER HIS RETURN NEW

YORK IN NEXT WESK OR SO, DURING 25 FEB MEETING WITH FSI COUNTER

PARTS, TEMPOS AGAIN REITERATED BEHERALD INTEREST IN TAYYAR SAYING HE.

DEFINITELY WOULD LIKE CONTACT PAYYAR IF FOR SOME REASON FBI DECIDED.

NOT PO. FBI CONTACTS SAID MATTER HOULD BE RESOLVED ONE WAY OF ANOTHER

•IN NEXT FEW WEENS AND THEY WOULD ATTEMPY ASSIST TERPOS IN THE CONTACT

IF FBI GAVE TAYYAR UP,

3. FBI ALSO INFORMALLY ASKED FOR TRACES OF FOLLOWING PNDIVIDUALSA

COMPANIES WHICH RES B CONTAGE OF PAYYAR PILLIAM A PI KI ANI HAS

CONTACTED RE PURCHASING ARMS!

A. MITCHELL WÉBELL, 181 AND IN

RET

3.34

---

## Page 30

14-00000

1257=55

36-22753

8.31 1646. 8194

CABLE BEC DISSER

PRAGON/UNIT NOTIFIdO.

_PER

—ARYANSE COSY IDIURO SLOITER

ACTION UNIT

RF

FILE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

ОТНЕВ ГАДА

PHONITED

STAFF

VR

ACTION A

831008

: E1AJ65

PAGE 82-02

TORI0A1600Z MAR 75

iN 391210

DEFENSE SYSTEMS

POWDER SPRINGS GEORGIA.

LNERGO SOURCE SAID WERBELL SEITHER OR SOND FORMERLY WORKED FOR

eRNERALD, ALSO MADE OFF THE CUFF REMÄRK THAT "DEFENSE SYSTEMS. CO®

SOUNDED LIKE OKHERALD FRONT ORGANIZATIONE

O. EDGAR LEMMENS AND CO.

BELS JUM

_FBI HAS INFO FROM BELGIUM SECURITY THAT LEMMENS AND CO:

• IN:

THE PAST WAS PROVIDED ARMS FOR THE IRA AND THE BASQUE INDEPENDENCE

MOVEMENT..

3. FILE: 201-0918287. E2 IMPDET

S E

---

## Page 31

The Amazing

Now Country Canar

by Andrew St. George

Capitalist revolution, the nitimate solution

or the first time in history. investments to more to a secluded

the successful managers of

farmhouse may End there a mea-

America's economy-its en-

sure of protection from

trepreneurs, financiers, mer-

random.

chandisers.

violence or he mar find, if real

investors-are

trouble starts, that in his isolation

talking rebellion. A

kind of

he's utterly defenseless.

rebellion, anyway. There is no call

to

Unless, of course, he has planneù.

subvert the

Republic, only to

abandon it. In increasing numbers,

ahead-as far ahead and as care

America's most affluent and active

fully as the criginators of shat one

elites are threatening to withdraw

can only call, for the rument, the

their funds, their assets, ultimately

Abaco Plan (it remains to be seen

events, of course, s.hether the

even themselves and their families.

from the centers of the U.S. eculs-

Abaco planner: were as wise and

omy, which many of them seem to

prescient as they were farsighted

consider done

and careful).

The originators

of

Hoffman.

the

for.

Nicholas ron

the Abnen idea were the first to in:-

acerbie and preter-

plement the urge to abandon Amer.

naturally foresighted miumnist uf

The ilashington

ica sith a concrete design, includ-

Post, found that in

some of mid-America's test execu-

ing a destination, provision for per-

tive clubs, "There is talk of busing

sonal and financial safets, monetar!

gold coins and keeping them in the

reirard and even a Utopian socia!

progrant. Though the men behind

office safe, of owning a piece of lund

to

retreat

to

when

Aharo are nearly the opposite of

the

trouble

the

starts." The hero of the year's most

commune-spelerg of

the late

durable best seller, d'em Can Profit

Sixties and early Serenties, their

from o Monctary Crisis, his Marry

objectives are much the same. Ther

Browne, is "Peter Panic.

seek

• she quin-.

a way out and &

return to

fundamental values, but their most

lessential American small insestor.

He is in fight from his own na-

fundamental value is the proposi.

tional economy. Transferring every

tion that each of them should be.

penny he

owns from LiS.

invest-

many times a millionaire, untruli-

bled by inflation.

ments into Swiss banks and South

African sold

its the time you read this, the

stocks, Peter Panic

men of Abaco

practically doubles his with from

mind

have

accom-

1070 to 173: then he is ready lo

plished the lind stages of their pee.

take the most important sier le

fran in which case you will have

find himself a secluded rural retreat

real alert. them in

to scather

pers or thes may have failer and

the nation's coming

tmubles.

be in the provers at repronging

Bug lid tike you to meet then ix !

But retreat whore? That's the

Basir problem none of these drin-

dif at a lunch in Mashington, 1.C.

last Mar.

sabery

grapples with.

A. sern.

to-fire-thousand-dollar-a-sear

man

who pulla up less, straili and tamil

"C'ag 'Horer"" and let slipe thie angs

60

No. sir! Not here in Duke Zei-

bert's place you don't;

this well

brel Washington restaurant admit

no

aulimals.

Not even if they're

Weuring

shoes,

eights-dollar

Church's

Not even if thes happen to

ve the familiar old two-lessed war

hounds sho were male immortal in

the Shakespeareati line.

and who

are being made fashionable again

this year by the success of Fred.

erick Forsoth's lutest book, The

Dogs of lar.

Here

we are in 107%, murky,

angot-ridden, confusing old "Ti, and

with Forsith's novel a best seller,

hailed as "soon to be a inajor mog-

ic,"

deferentially praised for its.

•gaportorial

rcalisits."

More

and

more people are talking about "the

angs of isar" as if they knew what

the phrase meant: an international

conspiracy of financiers and killer

commandos who bage mercerary

mind wars

in the quest for nuvi.

paroffs. What nonsense? A drink at

Duke Zeibert's polished bar will

give us

better vicis of realits

than

Fred

Forsoth's collectrel

warlis.

Take Mister Mitchell Livingston

Herbell here, a ruddy, jovial, mous-

tachrd chap, sipping

his gropran-

dial Tonguerar martini extre dis.

It's abrious that if there were any-

thing dorks or hellicose about l'er.

Bell. he saldn't lo lunching where

he is-at the head of the old Duke's

prize front corner dabie.

Or tale

the tall,

well-tailored

mall sitting nest so Wertill. lt is

plain at a glance that he lookir and

ing.

"Mies l have

thite

plodili.s.

piero" -sounds lide a jatrician

33

---

## Page 32

landon clubman. And

thias's just

straight out of a Forsith scripe:

what he is: Kobert Hamilton, Far-

the take over of Abai an action

un of kelharen and Stenton. a dis-

that will allow these men

set

tinguished member of the House

themselves and their money profit-

of loida.

ably out of the U.S.

In fact, a gon look at the leg.

To be sure, any reiémblance to

emlary Mitch Werßell-millionaire

popular fiction stops shor: with the

firearms tycoon,

desisner of the

basic

idea. Commando politics is

torld's best

muzzle

gilencer.. ad-

dead. It will no longer do to breaki

senturer, friend of dictators and

open a case of bonties hand pre

•C.I.A. agents.

manipulator of the

nades and storm the palace. In fact,

lück nf small. rationa-and at the

Abaco has no palace. What it does

seven men who

are

his luncheon

hase is six to seven thousand native

guests today reminds us that, in

inhabitants who lead lives ranging

real life,

the stratesy. of private

from

wars demands, first of all, finesse.

quiet

stagnation to mute

poverty.

"ri: Forgith's telling.

war"

"the dögs of

To be conquered, Abaco inust be

get together only to make

attäcked-that fundamental aspect

hard-boiled

conversation

*knoching off an

about

entire

of territorial expansion has not

republic"

changed in four thousand jearg-

with the aid of World War II ma-

but in an age of psychological war-

chine pistols laboriously concealed

fare, motivational research, sub

thorities are nce supinsed to see.

had delivered a shipmort of blank

sursey foums. These poiling: slips,

devisal bi a prestigious L'S. opin-

lon-research firm, are to manio.

sentiment on Abaco in favor of in-

dependence not

•just

once,

but

weck by week, as W'erBeli's paywar

campaign unfolds.

Furthermore.

Wer Bell learned

this morning that a test sampling

focused on a single Abaro sellle-

ment, perhaps Marsh Harbour or

For Town, had been scheduled by

his agents on Abaco for the coming

weekend.

The organizers expeeted

to poll between sixty and sirty-fre

percent in favor of independence

an impressive sore. reflecting the

fuet that the covert political cam-

paign of HerBell and. Co is in its

sixth month

in oil drums. W'erBell's world' is

liminal

propaganda and behavior

different. A top executive of De.

modifcation,

the tactics must

be

re these people seriors? They

fense Services International, Mili-

different. WerBell's first assault on

are indeed-not merely se

tary Armaments Corporation and

Abaco has been psychological." With

Sionics Inc., he designs and manu. great skill and ruthless persuasive-

rious but experienced, pos

erful and farsighted. Three

factures his

own-weaponry, which

ness, the citizens of Abaco are con-

of

Wer Bell's

luncheon

are recugnized all over the world

vinced, step by step, that they must

quests are former C.I.A. ca-

a3

the

most

sophisticated

small

Become an independent nation; that

reer officers, all three recently re

arms obtainable. Having acquired

becoming an independent nation is

tired. from its clandestine sertices.

a taste for irregular warfare as an

the greatest, most rearding thing

branch, where

they acquired

En-

O.S.S.

commando

leader

Japanese line

in

World

behind

in the whole wide word; that it is

valuable experience in the manipu-

War

1I,

they, the citizenry of Alaco,

-who

HerBell is rumored tu have taken

lation, dismantling and rearranging

must urgently need and demand

of gorernments. John Muldoon, who

a hand in a long string of mini-

and fight for status as a self-gov-

WorBell's principal agent in

warg

since then,

from the South

erning commonwealth.

Washington, has served as a PolAd

China Sce to the Caribbean and the

"I talked to the island for. almost

ma political adviser-in Vietnam

Mer iterranean. But WerBell frowns

in hour this morning." HerBell re-

•and Africa.

Walter

Mäcken has

on : rais badinage.

especially with

peats sently,

now

that

everyone

seen similar duty in a number of

fored. At Geibert's the table talk is

around the table is watching him

Southeast Asian countries, and Tel

mostly about sastronomy tolas, in

with close attention.

"They finally

Roussos, a tanned, grejing man

part because the dill sobis and soft-

got. the slips. They've alreads dis-

has been is senior C.I.A. clandestine

shell crabs are truly remarkable, in

tributed half of them. They'll make

part because the host at the neigh-

services

ollicial in the Mediterra-

a one-spot run this weekend and see

nean-ltaly, the Balkans, above all

boring table is Clifton Daniel. the

silser-haired

huss they score. They think it'll be

Groose- for alridit

twenty years

Washington

bureau

sixty to sixty-five percent."

before he retired last year to join.

chief of The New York Times.

No translation is needed. Ax the

ristensibls,

Fiu: by the time coffee and Cour-

Hatergate tapes have demonstrat-

Astor.

the management of the

Washinston's

best Greek

voisier arrive. Daniel and his party

depart.

ed, men who share a secret scenario

resiaurant,

dong

owned

by

his

W'erBell

lishts a finely

come to share a secret language. as

family

reined Montecruz double corona.

if by osmosis.

WerBell's remarks

These men are not war hounds or

talked to the island today,

" he say's.

reveal that he has had a fra-dis.

gunslingers. Their ethos and elos

and suddenly the table is all atten.

lance

conversation this

morning

thrust

not lulard violence but

tion.

with one of his chief operatives on

toward control. They are technetion-

Abaco, using a clear phone line

ic conflict managers planners, or-

the island"-that's what this

lunch is all about. The island

is

Abaro; not jel. an inde-

pendent republic, nor a center

of commire and finance, but

Us no seans a negligible

cordl hump, either. In fact, Abaco

is the econd-largest landmass in

the liahamas- Great Abaco

Little

and

Alaco, surrounded by a

aprinkling of small rrels and case,

ever seven hundred aquare aniles

ed fertili tropical paradise. Mitch

Hertirit and his puerto hare conie

do bashington to discuss a projint

i.e., a cunnection involving untapped

gunizers.

and onij orcasionalls the

phone numbers.

ilf the conversa-

manipulatore of siolent action. Mut

Bion had not involvel a ley agent

doon is i tall, pint deepchested

on Abaco, and if the phone nud

Irishman faithfully cust in the mold

been

susprit.

•th.c

conceration

from which most of the chief in.

montil bage leen brief.

specdurs of large Arterican julie*

The arent on the island-most

department. seem to spring. Nach

likely C. K. "C'huck" Hall who har

en looks like an lug league grad.

served ar Merlell'e princin ofer-

nate incroctor, biond, bution-edin

ative on Abaco during moi! vi the

hurn rimmed, ahrt.

with a Mong

Summer of l97d-reporterl that the

hung Racquet Chale Bie do Meatch

sperial courier nho reca-inally ar-

his niry biazer. The pi;-smoking

files

from Miami alsand a small

Krassas, in his dardssly cut En.

anjhitian seaplane, bringing con-

•alich arpicnis, demonotrates siliat

sipomest which the tassau au.

the French mean shen ther 3a3

#Z ESQUIRI. OLARUARY

3. 3.7

---

## Page 33

distingué the aging Charles Poser

plunked in a spy scenario.

looking

not so much the part of James Fond

as his enigmatic superior. M. A"!

three, follow 'er Bell's briefing with

small nods and half smiles of ip

proval.

Wer Bell talks on, his eyes on the

pearl-grey

ash

of his

cigar.

his

krowly voice low. There's work to

be done. lots of it. The das known

V.D.I.-that is, the date when

Abaco breaks away from the Com

monwealth

of the.

Bahamas, the

Unilateral Declaration of Indepen-

denceis tentatively set for

Sen

Year's Day of 1975. The operations

required to seize control of the is-

land have been disguised as the

"uprising. of an "autonomous.

cally organized independence more

ment" with such amazing Skill that

none of the world's major press has

spotted what is going on. A number

of seemingly. local

organizations

and deceptively "ad hoc": group

have sprung up to handle those ac-

tivities

that cannot be kept from

public view-propaganda, organiza-

tion; and so forth. There are: the

Abaco

Independence

Movement

(known as A.I.3I:) : the Abaco De-

velopment

Council:

Friends

Abaco; the

of

"Prosperity "71" Eco

nomic Conference on Abaro.

Every one of these cover organi.

zations has been clandestinels are

ated,

financed

and

managed

from

WerHell's headquarters in

Porter

Springs, a suburb of Atlanta.

To

coordinate their

activities-propa-

ganda, recruitment, proselytization,

the

importation of distinguished

guest speaker from the l's. sho

ed, utterly silent, with the built-in

preach the independence gospel bui-

capability of plussing a beer can al

tressed us a variety of economic

a thousam yards-fe guaranire

ard political promites-a carefulg

this mich.""

sass Verbell-and a

camouflaged

"forward

• headquar-

special sighting

device

which en.

ters" has been set up in Miami d, ables the rilleman in fix his targe:

large.

deceptively suburban house

das' or night. With Gordan Ingram.

a? 1666 S.W.

Twelfth Stree: hides

WerBell has designed and product

a high-powered S51. radio seation

the incredible Ingram, a miniature

"dispatch

center" for hardling

izerl

submachine

gun

no larger

carpo traffic with Abaco via a small

than the familiar. 45 service auto

seaplane, and a halfway house for

matic. eight hundred

rounds per

promising independence militaris

minute.

the whole shooting match

who are discreetly flown to Miami.

about as noing us a very fast Ping-

On

arrival; the independence ac-

Ponz match-"pac... pac... pac-

tirists are either enrolled in maiiti-

pacpac"—- the

barrel is a patented

cal indotrination courses held in

Merlell silencer. There is plente of

Mismi.

or.

having been prorided

"sophisticated equipment" do test

with plane. tickets under various

But among visitors who hare been

corpr names, they are floun farther

porch tu a training base near A:-

invited there more than once, the

place electronic security fencing.

lanta, where they receive paramili-

the dog patrols, the imperious mara

lary training tinder the mmmand

ing signs, the helipad for mimbat

if a former U.S. infantry pacer,.

choppers, the airstrip for the com-

CoL Robert Barard

pany Learjet-among prople bo

Co!. Bajard, a tall, leather nian

call Mitch by his first name, the

in the Garj Cooper mold, sith gres

place is known as "the farm."

eres and a shock of reddish brown

tair, is the officer in charge of spe

cial 'personnel" Young, muscular.

unattached: Abaconian independerc

enthusiasts, whose commitmen: tu

the cause of U.D.I. is especiaily

strong, are given seven seeks of

supersecret instruction in the use

of small arms, demolition devices.

suit other commando skuls ai she

proving grounds of Mitch

Fell's

Her

arms

compally.

Proving

ervunds?. Well

W'er Kell

mannes

plenty of gadgets that bear testing

•His compánies produce a deadly

sniper ride,

"accurized," antoma:-

Braining special personnel is a

rigorous regime.

and Col

Bayard

keeps

himself

in

shape: at Zeibert's he takes

arilled liver and a single

beer, and lunches in silence.

seldom intersening in the discus-

sion, recasionally clancing at his

wrist chronumeter-he

must be

back at the furm by nightfall, and

as a mere colone!, he must "95 come

mercial"-no Learjets pre-sarmed

on the rendly strip.

Setting out the final phases of

the Abaco take over campaien. Wer

-- ABACO NATIONAL LAND TRUST

LAND ENTITLEMENT, CERTIFICATE

aristadri

SPECIMEN ONIY

¡baco's

head

honcho:

losopher

Michael C. Oliver.

Ah, yes. the seven thousand native inhabitants; aler the

revolution, cvery Abaconian will get a certificate like this

one, worth one

acre of homestead land absoluicly free.

3 39

---

## Page 34

Bell sounds as smooth!

and play-

children all together, one peric

fully Machiavellian as the senior

of

providentially, at this critiral june

account executise of a merlium

their

land.

W'ho will decide

ture in mid: 1978. Michael C. Oliver,

what's just and fairpo

zenriatior

sizer ad agency plotting a tricky

"Ah... prohably I will."

Bell, offers the driven rich an alter.

but not really male or bores media

.. There he is... the lo: voice, the

blitz: The support of the locals is

natise: not just sore backecuntry

bony figure in the forty-nine dollar

hides-hole, but eitirenship and resi-

, essential:

"To get it, we're gonna

Robert Hall drip dry suit, the jack-

change their self-image." It's easy:

dence in an entirely nes country: a

et bulge between chest and armpit

newborn commonwealth aholl ded.

just listen.

We're gonna use only

certouring not the familiar shoul-

the truth:" Abaconians think of

icated to the protection of private

"der holster but a Hewlett-Packard

wealth and the surviral- iodeed.

themselves

well,

as people of

minicalculator: Mike Oliver likes

modest means. In reality, they"re..

sitting..at the for end of the table

the

veriral-of the classic free

enterprise system.

beggars hunkered on a mountain of.

with a notebook beside the butter

Long before the Dow bit the five

gold, And this is by no means-an-

plate: He has lunched here prudent-

hundreda, and coffee went up to

other hollow hype. No effecure psy.

Iy and slubriously on nothing but

fifty cents a cup.

long before old

war concept is.

cold "fish' and iced ted and with a

people began eating, dog food and

Stretching across the central and

health-conscious frown for the ra-

farmers dumping their calves into

southern reaches of Abaco there are

por of two dollar cigars, staring in-

ditches, Mike Oliver foresaw that

300,000 three lndred thousand

tently at every speoker in turn, nos

the

free-enterprise

economy

acres of undeveloped prime land,

staring at Ted Roussos over the fe-

doomed -in-America: It

was.

sounded

potentially, and by no means unre

mains of his cold jellied salmon

strange at firat, coming from Mike

alistically, worth hundreds of mil.

with the deep eyed concentration of

Oliver, this single minded belief in

mons of dollars. Thig is virgin soil

§ man whose daimon senses à chal

devaluation, decline and fall, for in

Under: British colonial rule these.

lenge. "You have a good point. a

were crown lands, reserved for the

• the mid-Sixties the dollar was still

small point but a good point "Just'

the fixed star of the economic firma-

sovereign, and now, under the new

and fair" are only words until

ment, the U.S. economy was boom-

I self-governing

Bahamas -Con-

sumebody decides

what they

are

ing. and Oliver himself seemed the

monwealth,: administered br the

supposed to mein. On Abaco, I will

very embodiment of the American

Pindling

government

in

Vassau,

they're still government land, stricts.

decide.. That's the big point isn't

dream of success: a European im

migrant to the U.S. at eighteen, he

E no trespassing for private citi-.

Right you

are, Mike. Chestr

had made his first million by thirty:

tens:

Slitch WerRell and Big Jack Mul-

(real-estate development construc

Just suppose, the scenario goes.

doon and Smart Walt Mäckem and

tion) and 1965 saw him living on a

that on January 1,

1975, god old

Courtly Lord Belhaven in their be

charming sooded estate in Nevada

torpid huns over

"sorry-general-

spoke

three-hundred-dollar

suits

with a pretty wife naniel Betty and

the-switchboard is closed"

New.

and

club ties

and hand-rubbed

three lively children. Approaching

Year's Dab, Creat Abaco and Little

Peal's cases, and Bob Hagard in hig

fits,. Oliver was the president of

• Abaco and all the lesser cars. reefy

craggs silence,

and all the other

sever:l medium-sized corporations.

and coralback adjacent thereto, de

M.C.P. stalt (New-Country Project

clare themselves.an independent re-

is shat that stands for) and special

settled,

induential

somunity

public.

This

vast virgin

acreage

leader and the employer of a ras-

personnel drawing contract pay on

ishingly beautifal secretary namel

sinulel he-up for uraba. Exery na-

or about Abaco are ultimately onl

Vicky Io Todd, who was crowned

tive-born

Abaconian could line up

meant to enforce what Mike Oliver

Miss Jevada in 1070. let for al-

fur his dissy.

considers just and fair and desir-

most ten jear, where other busi

"Will he ket it?" aska Ted Rous.

able. 'Ted Roussos knows it, too; he

nessmen and economists saw only

sos at the restaurant.

resigns from the project the day

progress and prosperits. Oliver di-

"Ohrho, you het your boots." sass

after the luncheon meeting. But no

vined a long-range trend toward de

Merlell:

"Here,

sce if l

can find

one else does.

Why

should thes?

pression and disanter.

this stult..." He lips through his

Jike Oliver is here, after all, not

Worldwide tratel and an intense

attaché case, custom-made bo Peal's

just as the founder.and constitu-

reading of economies helperd

of londrn..

pulls

out sume sold-

tional creator uf a perfectly seri-

tOn-

vince him us 1965 that. as he told

rimmed, elaborately printed bonds.

ous American nes-country muse:

& Visitor yeurs later.

"They're go

"Here:, ¿ the Abaco National Land

Trust Beneficiary Share Cortincite.

ment,

but in representation of a

ing to screw up the moneg." He

powerful syndicate

of

financial

And here's. the uther gizmo,

the

felt certain that debauchery of the

backers. It is, above oll, Oliver who

dollar sould lead to political crisis

Land Entitlement Certificate. This

is mathing independence an immi.

inflation.

guys every native Ábaconian adult

nent reality fur the citizens

of

and ultimatels to sume

sort of dictatorship.

dels his one acre homesite free and

Abaco, most of whom have never

"Once I san that the dollar was

cieal utter.

independence.

And on

heard his name.

kaput.

that whatever the govern-

the bereticiary share, he'll get some

Hut amons the driven, troubled,

ment did would only make matters

of the major leave revenues. Mess's

querting

financiers

of

America:

worse.

I dumped ms

stocks and

the lendor.

lass it sell on

the line.

Oliver is more

than

name.

To

bonds and

switched to.a strong

Prosa deed phey'll set a share.

mans business leadera he's a miri

positin

in

cold

coins.

Everyone

walled, the border save right

here.

cie worker, a minor prophet on the

laughel,

¿proe ilodi that the political ritua-

except my

friends;

crumbling ralls of the cits, a fat-

friends said l'il gone crass.

Well. as

sirer in Mares is just and jair.'".

sighter centry registering: the ap-

"Just and

fair.""

Roussor

preach of the forcey of darkneis.

•Jul

dinos, it curned out that I'd

madle some pretty sharp lets in the

sullio. "Of conirse, june and fair. 18

Fur a speiter is haunting Americ

mones market, and instrad of call-

Bhe Sullinal land Whatnot

files

-n ness apparition of four space

ing to suggest shere l could get

each nativo a cne acre honesite. it

age horsemen: Inflation, Cnemploy.

sunle

wychotheraps.

my friends

sill pire thor all, mass, soman an

ment, Degression and Chaos, And

called so IContiamad on page 158!

3..13

68 ISUUITE FEBRUARY

---

## Page 35

THE NEW COUNTRY CAPER

Maddo prunes fille

dial isin where

lode ceting nig investment tips, And.

ahile 1 bacon maline come real money

Pinancial advire. Just the opposite 1s

all. thr insestment.advisers

and

analyste and fore.

market

castets

bot tine.

Kiss.

thes couldn't

tradd. sile

when their

Here arminst die

wall, and su-

ben? lio murket. Lat me tell sou, nog

nail priple do.

And the sas it han.

peird. it

wasn't and tips or churts or

porerulio

managers;

what really hap-

meier was that bo linis lid heronic a

silen: -i disciple, reallinof Profes.

sor Lunwig von Slists."

P'rofessor son Alises, the longest-lived

1ane:3-2901.

nOxe

prolific

(ninetren

Brise and least self-effacing economist

o!

the

Austrian

schoul founded.by

Buhm-Finerk,

died in. 1973 in

dest

Tork-Cist inchore he'd bion traching

since 1010) just ax, after a half cin-

sury of cucurity und noglect, his teach:

ings began to enjoy a renaissance here,

muc!.

file:

Karl Marx came

into

rogue in Eastern Europe ot about the

Bine she siege guns of she hed Army

bevane auilible in the distance.

Had

nort

people listened to l'on

Mises in time, there would he more sold

milionaires like Oliver tolas, and al.

though

did, the professor's

tint osteria of numirers often compared

hin: in epuchal

stature to karl Marx-

Mart of intraconserrative capitalistic

first ions, of course.

Yon

polymath and his

teaching: are comples, but some of the

principal luctrines

are not difficult

to

• J'un Mises believed tha human

frcedunt

and

laissez-faire

capitalisti

were one and the same

thing.

He had

fuith

in

the

market. No? ay

a mere institution the

sort uf tular

"computer"

•sten by Kes

neans which the government can tink

er sith shenever it needs tu-but 8+ a

netani stal process

which

regulates

all hamar atairs. Such as one cannot

hope to did a fine

satch wich a bung

Vin Mises sax convincest that

geer tent couled not intervene in.dec.

nomic stairs, in the providential work.

ВПра

the

marhet.

sithout

causing

"Interventionism"

shas d

self-

defeation. Nickus circle:

the firve kus.

ernnia! Inirusion into busitiess neces.

sitainit i second to seem the ravages of

the linse. then n third one du unde the

soar- innie lenies of the seronil; these

a fourth

intervention to

isleriate the

traume ed is third... Von Bises de

"Interseremnists."

the

brainirin,

maideline latin lue of conno-

mini, ditner..

prelics plannuts, socirlo-

xi.-is.

Peripain in unushing with an economic

fide

puitie

And die Menes sis esargetical ins tis

total that antone manhanel liraril sio

titl:1".

we and decond luissed fisire

Capetition do dis paramount arial sys.

1 too helend dor chars all

One beautiful

smoking experience.

If you've never

had one, have an

A&C Grenadier.

Long. slender. mild-tasting dC Grenadiers

- inlight or dark astappers-are a unique

blund of fine importer and dorestie polecers

that give you real favor, sat fring revie.

His ice beautiful smoking expeneric.

Antonio Cleopatra

₴ 1.3

ESQUIRE FERRUARY 151

8.9932

---

## Page 36

Chaos

and tyranny-that is

Mike Oliver Superas no Parly as

the incidalole result of Anierica's

tresrntionis?" and

"collertivist"

debauchery. That he made millions

•lullare in coid profer along the way

nir!

penlly

reassure Oliver,

it

17:3

werely

confiraiml his premonitions.

Of course

the

profits hrijual: 8o prople who tent

ti

in

sering o1

mast of us-thes sermed.en prose that

Oliser had sonething.

To sell the world what he had, Dliser

Trote a booki in

1968: A alon Conspi-

sitions

•for a iles:

Соннету.

Printed

privately, never noticed in

book

written in pedestrian declaratory

sEjle.

the buoi has thus for sold 19,100

copies

through the mail-proving that

there

does• exist

that

contradictors

thing:

genuine

underground

best

seller.

The subtitle on the cover reads: "Has

the

Time Come To Abandon the Uniteil

States?"

Oliver's

answer

is

"Ycs."

firm

The biok tells why,

and how.

•The

be

saveil

Though

not

jet

lence

use

o.

the

end

America

range

sight:

5 ho

es.

cape the coming horror:

"The b

action.

the

If Ludwig

run

indeed

Karl

ism,

and

author

haps

its

Bakuning

its

atructionist, then

Fidel

Cistro-the

who redeiines

Panic, per-

pans-de-

Oliver

is

ity

militant

of

total actin.

thrit

sell

"petront hones"

withdraw to

has snor-

balled in

it's

Mike

them how to do it."".

self-reapect has a

him.

— this

tinie

States.

Thus,

the

it's

the

United

to

United States in

longer exist.

person

has

Fortunately,

number

jet quite suit.

the western

tu

find

that

country still esise."

And ness.

rountry'"

chinks have

cuuntry seekers.

tial men hu

Mike Over's strictures i short while menemen: pops she first British fille-

ajo, are sapparting his campaign rosh

mones and anything rise that might lo

-gent thr

batters.

n! the

01ha6e 61337.

required.

Whatser you need,

Mit:

paran in

just any the word, Blike. And the nurt

Colin Nicholl With a ripulation for bo

important

niurition of Oliver's sall.

enriwed don-lountry Projeet has turn

the meeting and the alliance sith. ich

Herbell' anil die semi-businiss, para

mili..ars

it's the

Wiser Vertil franization, at least an

far

as Abaco is

sonerned. Sperial

personnel

Are

intersieued, recruited.

briefed: Walter Micken, the scholarly

SOUNG CX.C.I.A.

pficer leaves fur

the

Rahainas on his fret assignnien:, Big

John Mulduon runts a suite in the 13.

fajeste Building in midtown Washing-

ton.

kaiph Sellullen is dispatcher to

Sliami, along with a pale, quiet former

British intelligence officer known only

as Grant who is a communications spe

cialist hireil to run wireless traftic with

the.WerBell-Oliver'organizalion's.agent

nesirork on Aharo... coded sirelris

Irate. fire-digit groups and all that

jaxi, the way a proper intelligence ala

-tion does it. The skeptical Tel Rousses

is soon replaced with another U.S. ex-

intelligence officer why is not merely

enthusiastic.

this lenn. joung

harl-

charger. named Charles Bosle, he is,

best of all blark; off he goes to work

among the silent.

sun-wrinkled fisher-

men and lobster trappers of Abaca

And jet who-but Mike Oliver is des.

tined to comprehend it, to encompass it.

to direct it all? Who but Oliver under-

stands that the carpaign for Abaco is

nut another banang-republic land crab,

that this is an ideologienl, jes, a moral

movement? Who nikeg sure that the

late lieutenan: direl of the dragil

and Sutherland Highlandors who 511s

serving a term aa P'arliamont do a Cros-

Meanworth

Colin "Jan Vilile" Mitchell 5583 a

shock. Broughe evre to Herbell's 11-

lanta relate on the usual all expenses

paid trip to mer: some of Abacon spur

мотя.

Mitchell turnal out su be abrasite

and relentlesali

arquisitive.

To belp

Abaco sinne. he santed a larse feo...

i tery large for.

Nig visit

was not B

Lord Belhisen is direrent Keeping

an eje on Oliver, calmly hut as care

fully as the American is watching Aim.

ho decides not to explain the coniplesi

ties. of influencing ller Majesty's for-

trainent.

"Oh, absrlutely."

he tells Oli

ver with an encourasing smule.

"Not lo

sorry. I don's think landon really caris

what happens in the

Bahamas. 1o0

know= 100

mispries at

home. I've alrends tabled a question ou

Abaco for next work in she House, and

se'll keep up the pressure, I'll promise

you.that. Ej the fine C.D.l. is due.

no, I don'e think we should worry too

much abrut serious trouble front lot e

don.

•H'ell, U.D.I. is all set: New Tear's

Das" sase Oliver. His face is auddenly

different: the intense stare turns into a

darns, almas. arretionate grin.

*Latil

then, good luck, everybals, and back lo

sork. There's lose to de done."

ideas of free enterprise and unfettered

market capitalisni and some expressn

in every leaflet, pamphlet or nessietter

that the Oliver-WerBell organization

produces fur distribution on

Abace."

AIM DESIANDS CUSSTITETIONAL CHANGES

WHICH WILL ELIMISATE THE MINER D$

GUVERSMENT TO ARDITRARILY LIMIT FER.

SONAL RICHTS! AIM DEMANDS AN INDIE-

DATE EXO TO GOVERSMEST DISERSHIP

AND CONTROL ON BUSINESS ENTERPRISES,

AIM DEMANIN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A

"LAND TRUST!"

Do the silunt, bare-leged men and

somen of Abnco really demand all this:

W'hy ask? Mike Oliver has it all thoughe

out for them, Arteur of a remuir-con.

trollad independence secnario, he means

to be a bon putros-not just the remote

manipulator,

bue in time she ethcient

and productive mannger of the allairs

of Abaco.

settled here at lunch.

One question remains du he

"He are sure that our special person-

nel will seize and hold control on Abace

when U.D.I. comes," Oliver sags, turn-

ing

directly to Lord Belhasen.

*1 hat

I'm still worried about is the attitude of

the

British

government.

The findling

regime in Nassau will uree militars in.

tervention by the british

when they te

alize that their constabulars is no match

for our men.

We went to le suse that?

interiantion does not like place. to g's

shini yuu can do it:"

Lord lichasen is an urbane, unhip.

pable siteran of ever fan jongs in lie

Musse of lonels. He is an etormones im.

The men rise in silent ascermen, the

Tiachgeng rück is oser: within tien

ty-four hours the Oliver-Werkell orga-

nization is bars in high gear. The palis

to V.l.l. is lined wich a thourand tasks;

contestions do he cupled, mingled pa-

thineters

separatel.

eontingencies

planned, "operational capabilities" to b

"actunted."

Bohert Anthony Carmichnel Hand.

ton, thirteenth Baron of liclhasen and

Stanton, jees back to london overnight,

pensively sipping lair of lolas Groich in

a frunt-sabin f.l.l'. seat. a fortnight or

so is spent planning and talling tier

tions, and on June 1d, at hall pas: two

of the clock, with the House of Lords

reassembled after the Whitsun

the

lord Chancellor on the

belsack.

the Bishup of lorismuth having read

she proper provers, bord Belhuven neer.

to address the prors of the realms in a

suice of singuiar aramily:

"Dis Lordo, I box leare to adi the

Question which sands in my name or

the Order Paper. The Questina Nas 29

dollows: To ait Her Majorly's Gotern.

mat shat pogreeitations they inierel

do make do the Govermont of the Ba-

hamis

urging there to conse their ha-

anisment of the perile of dharo."

Lord Goronng-Bolores, poorlinienta-

rjundercerretary@fafete.etanel.com

agonil for the gaserned: "My here!.

the Aharo I-lande are on intesiral part

of the Conmanuralit of the liabanas,

which heranie an indopen land suber-ices

3.13

---

## Page 37

Sile

on July 10:

1973. 1t

would fema

• fur a shorent

art on the blink: bus:

cherriore. be appropriate for Her M:.

14rn Honi

the for futiller?ral).

eli's liesernment in the L'niied Kink-

anil nine.

dom lie suri to intersene in the interral

shichts!

era for panel trucks apooiro

a Pairs of the Bahamas."

-phizing

the findlink

Rovernment's in.

Lorl, Helharen

and

•Stenton:

competente

and corruption

written by

Lords: I thanks the noble Lord for phat Oliver's exceutive assisiant Dave Scholl:

rrris and appreciate stal he sajs....

and

bunches

other

foodies

¡nil although the prople ol Abaco have

shipped

directly and informally since

rot, on the serent record, demonstrably

they

sould

only annoy the

Bahamas

sufereil harassnient,

and Lord Belha-

avertiment if arrated passing through

sen linova it, there is'a subliminal sense

the regu

which it's all quite true. To lure the

Tro n

e passed since that ta.

surernment into prociaiming and seit-

•ble d'hüte at Duke

and Slike

erating the principle of nonintervention

Oliver, having florn more than trenty

in the

nesely

independent

Bahamas. is

thousand miler, is back in Washington

one of the subiler goals of Lord 'Belha-

at the

Gramercy

Inn

(single

ten's straters.

Lorid

Goronwry-Roberts

is

$23.50) Balking

Slitch

densely.

WerBell. who

back ir.

Stashing-

gratifyinals enersetic about it all: "lly:

• ton but at the

luxe Madison. Ho

Lorus, this is the ease of an

indepen:

tel (Monroe Sulle

Oliver is

dent cuuntry....

My Lords, indepen:

experting

—impor-

dence. is independènce." If that dictum

tant berause

well devised and

hardens into. dogma, if only by

sheer

executed the

niay be, it can-

force of repetition.

the Oliver-Wer Bell

not succeed

restors and colo

orianization will have a free hand on

nists - new

an all-new coun-

Abaco: Washington,

for its part, is not

try.

This aft

is. to be -a

likely exen to consider intervention, In.

•for just such a

the meanwhile, Lord Delharen hesionce

• prospect. He

again,

asons number of previous oc-

more,

casions:

impressed.upon the

Höuse of

Aunk

owner

# lar-

Bond,

Lords that the plucks. oppressed little

spectacularly

Abaro supere.

In

Powder Springs. Crorgia, where

hing

expressed his

Col. Bayard is swenting five special per-

buying.

and. an

sonnel trainees from Abaco down at the

machine gun range behind the fishpond

of

Mitch

Wer Bell's

farm.

it

is

nine

ser

of Abaco.

o'clock in the morning.

Dusty, strained,

popried from the jabhing of rapil-fire

recuila,

the colonel and his boj's,

whore

diurnal "duty tour" legins at six ain.,

take a break. In boxy little electrie carts

of the sort used hy golfers,

they roll st-

leaily across

the close-cropped lawn of

the l'er Bell

estate.

up to the

mianor

house where

they

rationa".

dras

"midmorning

country ham sandwiches,

pc-

can biscuits, cold milk in fourteen-ounce

£1m85e5.

Then

it's

down to

the rifle

range for three hours of marismanship

instruction

with a

remarkable trainink

debict

devised boy

WerBell himself: a

mandard

7.62

X.A.Т.0

military

rifle

converted to fire 22 long-ridle cartridges.

1:'s a lus-cost, lus-noise, practically re-

coil dese way to teach a man host en hit

a Dr l'epper can at sebenti five sards

with a military firearm, and it

works:

the men sho make it through this drill

therrafter

known,

in

the special

Verlillian

neinenciature

con: pounded

frem the lingo of Wurld War 11, Korea.

Vietnam, and the intelligence establish.

cent's invisible war, as sniper quali-

fat." Thes are, too.

sit hundred miles or so southward as

she courier plune fies, the Oliver-!'er-

lied urguniration's dismi headquarters

is

humming

srich

me livity.

Nicks

Told, the ling-legeed, nieling-dianond.

real Mina randa or 8970-1230.

hav-

ing married one of Midr Olierr's youn

sier-presidents,

i+

now Aprosn

nonpro

Minallo do Mrs. Halah MeMullen-i.

hung preparing o

"partr: pichup""

Targ

the pilot whin

matra she bisrechly liai-

con-piano sun lu allaro, lute the sire.

till!

masking-taped

carans cartons 1o

leiters to spent 111 albrro; spare parte

ne night, accompanied by a short. grey.

ing lawyer and an air of coiled impa-

tience.

Bond 19

yourg.

unexperitdly

joung for a self-made millionaire, slim,

disrk,

dressel in a

black

which

looks rich but somehow

noncent. He

has already had at least one

long talk

with

Oliver,

but

the

attorney, as 'he

puts it,

"knows fron

noting

ebout

Abare. It's just as

well, for assembled

to greet the to potential participante

there

are Col.

Bajard,

sfitch

WerBell

and of course. Oliver

-a synergizel trio

sound up to deliver a socho briefing.

The longer

bekins

sith. the

usual

question about Abaco as a potential tax

whelter, and Oliver fells is with prac-

ticed ease.

"Acep in mind that se are building

on Aharo is not i lax-shelter nation,

he says.

ration.

Have

you read any of our planning papers?

constitu

Hane No Be watek: The consuld

-the lassor shares

head dubious-

ly.

"Anyhon,

basically what

ae are

structuring on Alaco is this... may be

I better rend it io

you from the consti-

"P'renubio: le, the proplo os

Aluco

... and so on:..

here

th.a 8

the only

nuel

proper itunetion ag

garronment in fa propter?

its

not prasel, Bull flirt plie

one we tree to one function

on the

page:

probertine

aginal purse emil fruit, seei

He 809 89899

er entition arithin als

hiraur, don yor. de

an hire lurther slown that government

3.13

i Hired do participants lo protes

persnael

rights

aguirst eilermest

"W'hat ins siran to sas...

"say's the

-Well. in instance. you sre shal se

mean if you so lu page thirty-eight.

Oliver

pierridri

him

"Hore

Article

Turnts-scien

says this

Fincal ant

tera--that

Bránch o

Offerrise

any forg

othe

materal

dotin at pal

parlici.

pate

Do you follou

First

off: the gusernment of the

Republie of Abaro

ndependent

sill-have

power

RO isSUe MOnCY.

This is-rery important,

more important than.... Frank knows

how: importart this is. Private financial

houses

isgue all

our money and

theyll guarantre it.

There will be no

Federal Deposit Insurance on Abaço, no

goverriment loan guarantees or banking

regulations. Nothing like the Federal

Reserve.

So central

bank,

you

can see-no

central bank. no ir.rolve.

mone

with the international Sionelary

Fund."

"The mones will be backed in gold."

says the lanyer questioningly.

The mones will be in gold, at least

sonie of it." sai's

Oliver.

"Sume of us

were the

fiest participants hove

drain up the charter for a hank, and

will issue the "rand,"' the basic unit

containing

23 tros ounces of golda

handy

mediun aired coin north about

Afty

dollars

presert rates, Sened

after

Ayn

Rand.

umderstand, not

after the

south African randl.

'There'll

be quarters

and

perhaps quintals.

the

quintel

sorth just about ten dollars.

Then of murie co'll hare to have paper

ssretie..

backed either in

guld up other

stable assres. All fully goil-consertible

= l'ela

sant your

wages

in guld, you

just pay the disues a risie."

"And if an jesuer defaulls..." saya

the lawyer softly.

"They

non't default.". says Oliver.

"The arrats sill have to be there, forty-

in the value of she issue, and if there s

any funny business. il's long jail sernes

Ine esarshady and his accountani-shal

bie

hret-le arte

froud.

Rut of

QUITES

self-regulation

will

prokabis

mugeest thet issuers carry hankruptes

144194144

f..t

safrty--privately

written insurance; mind you.

"And putto corviere-l'm chinbing of

the polier, she judors, durbage culles.

sion, sold know shal I anean-phusr will

be financed by whom? ask the larger

"Thes't!

Ananirat

voluntar

•Goluntary in

die 301106 tint Dress

shoppine solun.

Poet gross bul

ESQUIRE. PERRUARY

893

---

## Page 38

Those who pus

will

the jearly

premiums

peace-beeping forces.

becaste

he damusini

"participant:

shat they

sill tre.

Sharo

rrte..

shes 'll be

entitleil to

the servic

murranens provides: those the don't

made war on another lan? Ab is.

Bary, of course. Here druito sian is:

son't be.

Whaleser

serviers

all wrong.

They are

made ta

husiness can provide competitiveiy sill

mortal outh and stani so accree dor

he left to privalr enterprise.

she national anthem. Abam was i tair

"Like the pulice"" the langer smiles.

a national anthem, beratie ite

"There's a cute deal-if jou

done pay

menl.ol chaco will hate no curray.

your premiums, they can't arora: you

sonal, para legal, special powers. is ill

for overtime parking.

function only as the hired serra.: el

"it'ell. no.

Not realli." rays Oliver.

the participants

who pay for is Tro

"Thpy can't

parting

arrest you for

overtime

anghorr.

Abaco price-limping volunterg en::

because this gubern-

be

made to salute any

ment ton'; have the right to sell sou

emblems, or take theistie ple

how

ike

long you should stop

your car

at

guernment has

no right 8o

she curb-why should it? Bue it you're

thej will sign a togear of firmitar or

guilly of force or fraud, soul. be

any-year contract., as the

conditinas

rested whether you are a paid-up par-

may demand, just like ang hired era.

ticipant of nut. What a nonparticipant

ton't have mill be the right to conduce

men. suspect it will be a dana fiNi

•little force.

civil litigation,

set

up &

surrogate

"Well," says the lawger.

who hes

trust, to enllect damages on a tort and

been glancing at his watch with rede

no forth."

frequeney.

•Well, Frant,

- "I'hat sort of a

government will it "think...

Be, anyhow?" asks Bond. "i mean as an

"Yes.". a839

Bond,

rising

toa

orcanization. Hou will'it be run?

"Well, in some ways itll run just like

polta go. Call you in the mornins, Wise,

and we'll talk.

sovernment here,"

"One more question,"

sars. the lan.

"Just like the :L.S: Governnient The

constitution calls for a bicameral legis

"You sür the natives, lie, tea larch

sand natives

lature. An assembly électel on a pra.

"Seven thousand," says Mitch Her-

portional basis and a senate. And there,

Belt maybe richt'ur nine at the masa

sou see, the similarity stops. Abaco will

it some who are working in the boie?s

hase no foreign service lilie the State

in assau return after independense."

Department, onls trade representatises

"Right, say eight thousand ratirs"

in countries where business demands it.

sajs the langer. "How can jou be sure

they'll buy all this-vote for yuur son-

and all that? After all, she

place belungs 8o the natives."

BAG L I THE WINNING OF CHER

"No school systen," sag's the lawger.

"W'hy not?"

"Because whist is called

the school

ajstem in the United States is really an

indoctrination

system,"

BaY'S

Oliver.

"It's a syster for bureauerais ló brain.

wash juung people in favor of collee.

tivism and stntism."

"And suciulisis," Baja Bond approv-

ingly.

"Yes, In the high

schools and col-

leges, in fasri of outright socialisn,

says Oliver. "This is not to say

Abaco

son't have an educational argien o? ing

own hind, but every schoud will hare io

be trancel prisabel, by the fanulies u!

the students or privale

will mean,

here and there, some hard-

ship, sone lunj-term borrowing.

mand thus sill be made fensible a: very

low interese, l expert- but collertively

it will mean the survival of trendon!

its one

provenance in

minals of the

dent arucration.

you see," Oliver holds

his bong

belore his faer to silence

lions,

"Ahare is mi joing to be another

banana repible. That's not the print; 1

mouldn't speed an hour's time just lo

make some money that way.

The point

as that the Republic. of

Abaco a ill ir,

firse ud all, a moral experiment, a polner

is here

se'll tes lu hero indiridual fore

alone alive seen il is doesn't survise in

America.

"Hut son's you need an arms?" rais

Bassad doulaails.

natives with leadership potential." says

Workell. "Policical indoctrination, 2=1

maybe half the population, that'll f

along with us, vote the wag they're sug

ing his boys hos to shout si a mioting

target without missing. And te fruit

the natises who son't buy wha: de cri

"Fine, call jou tomorron, rise soir

• And Frank Fand a-3

his counsel are gone.

Mike Oliver is

much.... W'hut du you think, Nich:"

For an insiant, he is as drairni do 23

perling ult his shirt. "I'm fuing su tard.

friend for fier i3)

Cher tas with Suany. They wer

separain.

bs?

Coften

al.

didn't

lirio this: tie passpily fell in love. In

swith

ne.

caracy. Gerten,

linterison

sent to

at

Geffen's club,

said.

and se

Getten

Cher shor,

whire with a

and

with the mire

psschiatrist,

he

will

color.

While: Cher

California

rock stars

who'd

to ask.

ins.

three: in

19rs.

lue at breatifast it's a different story.

"franti called before eight this riers.

ing-te's really turned un," sags Oiser.

He's puttina up ten thousand cass so

a sure of loutholi un abaco, Po said.

and next seck well tall sirious sionry.

He lages the grujre."

"As torte as it kudo like a gnal deal."

Ber tell prosle in a huge psor arco.

"Thal's what his langer isid." Mir

says happily.

ve no you. 070e for freedon:, Areas

that's

the

big

and don dece

what trand said" He said, liar, iris

are absuintely rishi.'"

weslth to him

any

that way 1s

dorite," sase Derr. "He will sail thome.

ESQUICK DISHUART

480285

case

3 33

"Cher

for

dinner,

butterfly-emer

over

one

ear

in

nis

ponsible

this

and

flat-out

Ahmet Artegun

strecked

crashing

sit

beffre

sIr.

Gefen

and he is

song a busly

"HIn

---

## Page 39

25 January 1975

SUBJECT: Press Reports of Ex-CIA Employces Involvement with

Persons under Congressional Investigation

1. Press reports of Sentator Lowell P. Weicker's investigation.of

CIA's involvement with other government agencies surfaced the contact

of Lucien Conein of DEA, a former employce, with an elecironic maru.

facturer hamed Michael Morrisey. The same reports have also tied

Morrisey with a Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell, Ill, who, according to our

files, has claimed United States Government and CIA connections in

the past. According to DEA, WerBell recently invoked the Filth Amend-

ment whea appearing before Senator Jackson's Subcommice investigating

DEA on whether or not he supplied arms to Robert Vesco. 'Also, while

not mentiozed in the press, at least one retired ClA staffer and possibly

two others may have been involved with Conein and Morrisey. The ex-

staffer is John P. Muldoon, a friend of Conein's.

who currently is a

private security specialist who has dealt with Morrisey in the purchase

of audio sweeping devices for his business.

Muldoon was recained by

WerBell curing first half of 1974. The other two, Walter j. Mackem,

an acquaintance of Concin's, and a Theodore J. Roussos. bith of wrom

were in contact with WerBell for possible employment in a scheme to

promote the secessión of the Bahamian Islard of Abaco, in enterprise

publicized in February 1975 issue of Esquire by Andrew St. George.

2.

We have no information in our files on the B. R. Fox Coinpany

or the fox Company principals mertioned in the press accounts.

We were,

however, told by DEA that Mr. Sandy Smith, Timi magaline reporter,

was working on a story to the effect that the late Bernard Spindel, forme:

Although Air. Smith did not allege that cither ClA or DEA were associaled

no intention oi dropping the story and we can expect lurther press coverage.

3. In conclusion, there has been no CLA involvement with the

B. R. Fox Company or with Michael Morrisey.

Moreover, Mr. WerBell's

claims oi ClA affiliation or support over the yoars are simly not true.

3.32

---

## Page 40

SERE

25 Jarsary 1975

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston WerBell III (201-259910)

1. Mitchell Livingston WerBell, who appeared in recent press

reports has for over a period of ten years been claiming to be a

répresertative of the United States Government and of CLA.. The facts

do not support this contention.

2 ClA first learned of WerBell in July of 1959 when he contacted

General Cabel indicating inowledge of Cuban and Dominican affairs.

Mr. Thomas J.: Flores of LA Division was put in contact with VerBell

"and considered using him as an FI asset.

A POA was granted on

7 July 1959 for this purpose. By October. 1959 it was apparen: that he

did not have the access to information as hoped and he apparently looked

upon his association with Cl as a means of furthering his various

business schemes. All contact was then severed.

3.

From that time until the present Mr. WerBell has cropped up

in a number of nefarious activities whereby he inferred he had ClA connections

or support.

He was reported to have been involved in arms sales to

Nicaragua and Guatemala, in efforts to gain recognition by cortain

South American countries of the Cuban Government in Exile, and in an

abortive scheme to invade the Republic of Haiti in 1960.

He also turned

up in Thailand where he contacted the COS purporting to be a counter-

insurgency expert. In 1971 the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense

queried the Agency re Mr. Werbell, asking if WerBell had a contractual

agreement or association with she Agency, as Werbell was awaiting a hearing

before a Department of Defense Examiner related to his pa-ticipation in

the aboritve Maiti invasion.. The Office of the General Counsel placed the

maiter in perspective. Subsequently, he contacied the Agency lo request

intercession on his behalf to have his security clearance reinstated which

IoD revoked because of his Haitian caper.

He was told this could not be!

done. In 1971 he again appeared in Thailand attemping to seil arms. In

1973 de was under investigation by U.S. Treasury Dureau at Alconc!,

Tobacco and Firearms and by the United States Customs Servico for activities

relating to possible mercenary activities in Abaco Island, Banamas.

this connection WerBell contacted three ex-ClA employees, john P. Muldoon,

Milier 3e Maciom and Theodore Roussos in i scheme to devolve there int

the activities of an organization called the Friends co Anaco oni whichlis

advocating the secession of the island from the Commonscalt of Bahamas.

3.32

---

## Page 41

3 302 T

2

All three inviduals repurted their involvement with the WerBell group

and had sought guidance from th Agency. In May and June they were

advised to break all ties with WerBell.

On 27. June 1974 the FBI was

formally apprised of WerBell's overtures

for their collaboration in

the effort to bring Abaço's secession.

In September 1974 WerBell

reportedly went to Greece to sell arms to the Greck Government.

Most recently WerBell reportedly appeared before Senator Jackson's

Sub-Committee investigating DEA and had taken the Fifth Amendment

on the question of whether or not he had supplied arms to Robert Vesco.

3.32

COOLE!

---

## Page 42

STATE DEPT. CROLE NASSAU 179

DATED 3O JAR 175

Subject: LOCAL: PERCTION TO ESQUIRE

MAGAZINÉ ARTICLE ON ABACO

---

## Page 43

FBI Cuble dated 24 JAN' 75

subject; Aladdin m. AL-TAYYAR

Internal Security - IRAQ

---

## Page 44

DEL. Wes Offered

Explosive Devices

Er Leerence Siries

Ajerardrin

firm

al-

jamaics

in scil

an norial eif the

Dri?

Fiercement

Adrainication

me dearest deraned to card explosits

in

stick unlikrig

ab

•cienhone

handrel, a cianolio pack or a rainlicht.

The dificial. Lerion Suit had sore

to the arm.

tronie sureillance rouipmeni

manica

partiaor.

accordina

an

agenci sookesmall.

Robot!

11.

er! hump.

Concin and a sicind DEl micial, C; ril

Frans. a'so

chirrved a

of the caplosive equipmen:

but did not

bis ant'of it.

accordina to feld-amp.

A caialo ue of equipment apprenils

sold by the company. R. it For, destities

arieral device

desianed "to

plosives

tristered

by

time.

carty

ex:

moiemen:.

mechaniral

pressuits,

light,

Ur

audio

mechanisms

The catainque sidies.

The desires have

Been desened and taalciured to? sale

sutherited

azuncick

pha

United

Statis

crifically iniented

for spchestion curside ne this country.

The

internation

coniained

herein

15

classiled by line manufacture:

for U.S.

Emperrmont use paid.

The

handbur

and

storagc of this material

should de

done

so mindial de lis peasilise paiure."

Cane'ee and Frank

"Sciora!"

said. he

rid

an? know which devices they saw. Corcin.

a former prepune mi the cental intoli

gence dience, is actin= civel of spectai

operations and firid supper dor thr DF.N'9

oiline of intellisince.

Foidhany said ina

Corcin's office la tie operating: icm

nf

the liddone dison and demises 3338

•Conein was ana anaitible for cominient.

Foldiamp said that Frack rari empti

cails

inat the denionstration was not in

qurstrd."

Concia's risition du the deroneration.

Feldkamp

However. that's not why f'm herr" Asked

why the craoncration was mane by, the

salesman.

foidhar said he could

not identily. Felikan; ropler, "Likr any

sonal salesman.

the guy

tryin?

to

maie a sic. l'e was loid

Did has not.

gill

not,

does not purchase that type of

The

If did her on hundred hucks

sort o acronics suncillarce equip-

biene ahich feilkarp sond is "derquentis

Lead

ry the Dad; under court cader.

stia?:or.

Prioring

do the sue that cut of cutory er shal.

AFT

Hurris id Can cord and Paa cona: Death.

Jana.

.8.0.

M'alecidia 0.001919:68

d.o0i6"= 19

J..

Cors...

Comrin was sill al the ClA

Concin annuiri; dal airl repurt the-

dimonsiration

• tie current

17!.

DFA.

trickop raid he doid

the MaliCE 19

lapday and floricis wAs

as soreded and'strait as moo

brople

andly he" Weicker cormeried.

"Thines

perle sian porchen this suri io ia

securien:

serie and arbony thinks

siranse.

Busin?

equipmont

fan

be

word leially. There's no way this equip

ment ein be

word Ically.

Folkamp said "it anuldn't he sithir

the punico odItA as à narentics arcner"

do renew the legalily of the espiosi: e

muipment:

A ever meiro daird June 10, 1071. sirit

b:

drican idented as are under &

Marsha!

Matpaig..

accraianyint

Geniali

11.75

cainircus

Wat reaper are

firinsire

in rared in

Lou in

LANDSLIDE IN CANADA - This is all 1%.

maios of a street in liposing a minis;

th.s

other

Hácx6 3:0

1 bring this to sour areaiion

in Ca:: 10u

miaterial.

it is so

planned for

Lot up

here.

Weriel!.

who said he trade anri sold

silen:

automatis

Br÷90s

firfian

countries with the appioral of lie dericoal

ancernment.

said

had

7e185

seen

Cuba Sceling

Trade For

"ClA Agent

NesTe 194110

a farmer 671.

pioyee had intereniod l helore Herbell

couid see it.

Cuba is within.

HerRoll said toe die had palärd dese?.

¡alesed Claim

in cacharie

das, to both Morg iny and Concin. Corein,

• fur a deerans

Herbell sad pid bem tar equiproch iod

a.

never 1r03l

Hien pind.

"Inu's nut in

atter labir: pi

the sisaisinating beriness and nellier ari

ill

riciais

1," Weptall sail

Morrissey

could rot be reached for i

So

the

• comment.

Ithere is o

Rarbara For Spirdoj,

ahnac. home ad.

, haw'"

the

dress is lisod as in addrees for BK. For irespond 8a 1u9 dier by lucan

Inboratories, said in a reinonone niritici

Mcial or as on

till

Iniet.

1.15

•13e: nichi that sae tad gerbed as perisone •

bard.

5:9 9314

tion frog her

M1orr.900

3ra°

Stout

in too lom

ti:e

jira

1:ua'

Wickenglis

2.3

1975.

---

## Page 45

IA Agent Contacted on Alexandria Firm's Assassination Equipment

1919923011

cale conspirator E. Howard

itat! Wrest

Blure Jr. has been mention-

Conelr'& Involvement in the

incident raise serious new

amassed during the House states that the cara-onue

official

ed in connection.with an

Judiciary Committee's im-

questions about the opera-

"was but together

only

ler Central

D'empt by in Alexandria

peachment inquiry.

tions of federal law eriforce-

after we started working to

The conversation center-

Bether with

1o water.

firmy Po sell assassination

equipment to the U:S. gov-

ment and intelligence agen-

cics.

ed.on activittes in Saigon

Lou Conein."'

He later" states that "sore

emment.

pror to the coup that ousted

of this

former South

equipment

was

Sen. Lowell P. Welcker

He also questioned a

Vietnameso

demonstrated to Lou in this

Jr..

R-Conn.,

disclosed

statement by Conein that

i President Ngo Dinh Diem.

(Alexandria) office about

today that Lucian Conein,

the DEA planned 8o pur.

Concin was a hieh-ranking

three. wecks

director of special projeces

chase only electronic eaves-

CIA operative in Saigon at

The

the time of the 1963 coup.

memo was dated June 10,

for the Drug Enforcement

dropping devices from Fox.

1974.

Administration, viewed the

"I told the senator that,

The memo, said the cata-

equipment manufactured

Conein said.

"Yeah, I saw

this (assassination) stuff.

HUNT LATER used some

logue contained a "listing of

by the now-defunct Alexan-

of the information obtained

equipment that is available

cies of the United States

goverment, specifically in-

tended for application out-

side of this country.

"The items offered are ei-

ther

conccaled

into

"ALL EQUIPMENT In

everyday-type

objects or

Our

'astro"

category

is

packaged

simply as "black

box'

manufactured to the highest

pieces of equidment standards In terms of reli-

with no labels or identifica-

ability, dependability, life-

tion on the outside other than

the

time.

and

performance

necessary

actuator

switches and sensors. Upon

under most weatier varia-

tions," the catalogue states.

request, this equipment can

Is then states: "The infor.

be délivered in a 'sterile' mation contained berein is i

condition for foreign use.'

the brochure continues.

classilied by the manuine.

turer for U.S. government

use only.":

dria electronics firm. But

So what? I've seen a lot of

Concin denies he ever even

that

from Conein as background

and planned for Lou up here

kind of thing in my

day.""

for fabricating State De-

(Washington)."

considered buying any of

the equipmene.

Conein was a long-time

partment cables that impli-

cated the late

Wcicker released a cala-

CIA operative before mov.

President

• WEICKER.

SAID

the

John F. Kerinedy in Diem's

logue of the devices which

ing 10 the DEA with the

assassination.

Hunt

memorandum itself raised

was

doubis about Conein's stute-

included such things as ex-

assistance of Exil Krogh,

ploding cigarelle packages

former head of the White

working

for the

Nizon

ment that he had not consid.

ion"

and electronic booby trapy

House plumbers for whom

White House nt the time.

ered purchasing any of the

The catalogue released

assassination devices. And

for telephone receivers. The

Hunt worked:

by

Weicker

included

In July 1971, Conein had a

he said it stirred questions

equipment was manufac

memorandum to Mitchel

tured by the B.

R.'For

three-way telephone con-

about whether Conein still

Werhell Lidentilled

laboratories, which Weick-

versation with

flunt and

by

was working, with the CIA

er said went out of business.

Charles W. Colson, former

Welcker as a Georgia arms

despite his retirement.from

three wecks azo.

Whito

House.

• manufacturer and apporent

alde who

that agency in 1971.

pleaded guilty to.ohatruc

Boldler of fortune.

The

Tha

catalogue lists lis

THE SENATOR, & for-

tion of justice charges in

memo was wrillen by Mi. "'astro'

chuel Morrissey,

equipment

this

Co-owner

mer rember of the special

the trial of David Wilsberg

Way:

Sinate Watergate commit.:

A transeript ol the conversa-

of the Fox Laboratories, ac-

cording to Weicker.

"The devices have been

ice; charged that she exist..

tion is contained in evidence

designed and manufactired

ence uf the catalogue and

Is the memo. Morrissey: for sale 10 authorized egen-

SLEPTY REPURTER!

CALLO BE DANIEL ELSIES

..!:

1::.

---

## Page 46

THUESDAY, jANUARY 21, 1975

U.S. Aide Was Briefed on Assassination Techniques

BE NICHOLAS M. HORROCK .

Vorritay als an undenufied aria: reranguns melules. One compony

with Mrs.

Barbara

soner: +3+009108788.5190

New York man no belait of the screw at each end secures tun Spindri.

The nome fox was

WASHINGTOS. Jan. 22-A

Fox Company:

which had offs on

u.:.

Top

frinoved

to ".frs.

spindel's maiden

Via and Sess pack taude with explosive."

Munisey said. Me said that

• Enforcement

Administrairon.chat

presence details dod crand irre ropes on surelence.

dorisse! said that lo he contmund to sell electronic

ar

said today tha: he

company's

equipment

had been on

the

electronic the

bricted

07

described

that

have

been surveillance

ard that

ter idisidual.

equipment

and

rainlogue.

ropies were

• a$

pectronit

Isassinacion techniques by a'pri- equipment.

as- what the catalogue calls "asiro: Fecerai officials.

in the hands of

Mrs.

spindel confirmed that

He derlined the company was no longer in

to ider:is the lio officiais to existence and said that she wag

Ivate manufacturer.of

Senaior Weicker has obtained the G.vertment acency they unawure

Mr.

Morrissey

had

pi.lg.and.buggu.g.equipment

1 memo that he said was fron

were canneried wich..

circulated a catalogue for such

The offcial, Lieur

Coi. Lucien the files of the B. R. Fox Com-

Mortissey also declined devices. Her hushand, the late

¿Conein,

special

acting.

director

operatiors

and

of the pany. written to an official of a jo ident; the person who had bernard Spindel.

who formed

field Georgia

support section of D.E.A's in- that says:

manufactures, introduced him to Colonel Co the B. R.

fox CompaDy, was

fernauona!

intelligence

divi-

"Enclosed le a calalog which nein.

The colonel said that he"often quoted as a wiretap ex-

sion

said that he

received the nas put together sinly after we.

•could call how he had learned pert.

briefing in May,

1974, from re Started working fogether with of ihe fer concern but shat its

Siveral law enforcement of-

a presentatives

of. the now

de-Lou

Conein.

wrole out this name might have

come from ficials and

elestronic

-experts

unct B.'R. For Corpany

line of

'astro' equipment withian acquaintance in Washington who were interviewed indicat;

Colonel.

Conein said he hadiyou and lou in mindy and be

Mir.

Sorrissey, who said that'ed that the desices as described

not asked for the briefing undicause of the nature of the devi- he hed a degree as an electron. in the catalogue appeared us-

had no interest in the

Nics

engineer, said that he de-jable only for assassinationg or

equip: ces. it is not being gven to any

ment.

one else..

Some of this equip

signed the equipment in early: for the booby-trapping of pres

Several law enforsement offi-ment was demonsirated to Lou 1974 as an outgrowth of his mises.

cia!s

and

-Senate invesugators/in

this office about 3

said that this was the first time ago."

weeks work in the field of wiretaps;

One veteran industrial secu-

land mom bugs.

that he saw

they had seen evidence that a

Memo Is Sigried Mike'

Mr.

omissey, who also de no demeetic market or he de

domestic Federal agercy would

scribed himself as a lawyer. vices with privale companies.

even

look

at

assassination

equipment

The memo was das a gued said Er!

'ibmebedtmmhermf:"Even on military installations

signed said that he belieued the rauin.t:

high

security

Government

desianed,

which

Served In Saigoa.

he agences, these types of booby.

Pentagon that harpart of the evidence said was an

electronic trigger-traps would be

inaporooriate.

According hied stares in Ito question whether the

Weickerjing

papers on

rela-

derive.

was legal as long you'd

never

know

who you

¡volvement

in

the

Irdochina|tionship hetween

Pas

is was not armed with animight injure," this source said

Colonel

Co-

explosive.

He said that it-hed;

Colonel Conein said that he

WEI.

Colonel Coneig was a se-nein

and

the

assassination nonlechal applications to trig- became a consultant to the Bu-

nior operative of the Central In-equipment manufacturer was aiger

alarms

and otheriral of Narrories and Dangerous

¡telligence Agency 1

Saigon in casual one.

"anti-inirusion" equipment.

Drugs in

1972

and

became

1963 and seried as liaison be

When asked by a reporter

He said

itween

the

United

that

he

would confull-time official

D.E.A.

in

States; ahout the memorandum,

Colo sider selling such devices only December, 1073. His nace came

Government and forces that de- nel' Corein said that he was lo the Federal Government: Helup

Watergate

posed

President •Ngo: Dinhishown it during an Interview added. however, that he does testimony wher it was disclosed

¡ Diem®

with Senator Weicker.

Ir..

Senalor: Lowell P. Weicker

'sell

electronic

sureillance that one of the Watergate bure

"I sold him I had no idea equipmer: po local police.

Jalars. E. Howard Hunt .Ir., hart

Republican of Connecticut, the context in

which it

was

who las een concucuing an

written,

anu

Mir.

stortissey said that the mee with Colonel Cunein.

Mr.

vestigation

of. C.I.d.

involve-

known

Mr.

hat

not Fox Company

was dissolved in lunt at the time was gathering

Morrissey before November.

ment

with

other

1974,

as a resuleinfonnation .to

prepare bogus

overment the sales demonsuation) I said ot mas-pement differences. He cables that implicated President

copy les, said

that be has

copy

the

catalogue

ajif I'was him [Senator Weicker], saidw tha: he had shared man-Kennedy

in President iDem's

ofjs would turn the

memorandum agemen: and control of thciassassination in 1963.

astruments described lo Colo-jover to the F.B.I.

and let them

inel Conein.

investigate. I told him I would

When questioned by a repos

De glad to take a polygraph oni

ter. Mr.

Weicker described the the matter.

devices as

"used for assassina-

Colonel Comein said that he

tion, pure and simple.

listened lu a detailer pres-

•There is no place in this sassination devices by-trap, dis

country for this sort of thing.'

(sassination devices,

but he

he added

not "discourage" the manufac

Mr. Weicker said that he had

turer because he presumed that

brought the catalogue to the at.

as & licensed electronics com-

¡pany it. had the authority 1o

tention of John

Bartels,

admi i produce the explosive devices.

nistrator of the Drug Enforce-

Colonel Conein told Senator

ment Administration, and that weicker, as he had a reporter.

had

interviewed

Colonel that

despite

the

¡Conein and the colonel's depu. of the

assassination

fly,

gear,

he

Sear! Frank. He said.

that had selected B.

Fox out ofi

athe officials had assured him several

companies in.

that the

agency had not pur bugging

chased any of the devices.

this

equipment.

provide

To

make

purcnase,

Colonel Conein?

Senator Asks Question

lignored

the

presentations of:

The Senator said shas he had;several

been sold that the agency's men:

31r.

beiter-known concerns'

Bartels,

the agency ad.

¿had done nothing to encourage, ministrator,

said that he

was!

the manufacturer to think thaticondurting

an internal inquiry

. he

might make a sale to their into the transaction.

Mr.

Morrissey

identified

agency.

copv of the catalogue obtained :

"Mo question was, why in the by

Th. New York

Times as 3

hell didn' her do sor thine to photostat of one that he iped

discourage him.

in the spring of 1974. The in :

said.

ormal catalogue said that the

o pa

«....

??'

---

## Page 47

mycranear the since.

"quintent

devices

de- araliable

antr by Senator Weicker in:

rufioil.

diTeléshoe handsei incordi

iSfiniature activata

Nich

Colonel Conein,

asked about deiay

the briefing.

said triat he had handser

use reside teles timele

chare

not solicited the briefing on as. fred at-SEC lorowing lanzi°

sassination

aspecis

Fox's of instrument handpiere

equipment,

and

wouldn'

fiCigarette pack

acidis-

loudy that stuli with a 10.100: turbance explosio.

pole."

Flectmaics

explosive

macule

He continued:

"That stuff is.

inside

cirareile past: When the:

only pood in a war.

and who's

sis is lified ar

maird in any.

goi a war? li was very sophisti.

manner,

the

expiste

cried

stuff.

Ther

had a tele joff."

phone that rouid be

triggered

fashlight

joy remole control; If the wrong Everyready

antidisturbarce

unit

Standard,

person

picked up.

the

phone;

2D seil

fishlick:

you'd blow him up

has antidisturbance ciertronics!

concealed inside where batieries!

Colonel Conein said that heihave been removed. Remainderi

Lad found the material "fascin-!

ating"

but

that

ne

had

said

¡of the battery space is paried

nothing to encourage the icea

isith explosive.

that the agency would purchase activated sensor.

@'Remote -controlied, light-

Unit.delivarg

thad.

such equipirent. He said that he a predeiermined charge across

purchased

about

$500

worth of audio equipment from

les output terminals.

when ac

the B. R. Fox Company. which secording to its pre-ser

¡tisated from a remose location!!

he said could be used for bug-

cade.

ging.

jUse

with explosive for

firing

upon the occurrence of certain.

said, cannot

The equipment he boughi, he conditions relating to light in-

be

¡United States

used in the tensily."

without & courtl

q'Booby-trapped, 11-16

order but is for use in D.EA'S plosive clip. Use: A mechanical.

ex-,

foreign

operations.

said. fly activated electronic chargel

however, that the gear had not circuit is built into a common!*

been used, and I still have it in military item. Upon removal of

my safe."

coin we conduce Go r hand

the single round in me me byl

either by firing or

removal, the

explosive

concesied in the magazine is:

Jetonated.®

"Fragmentation ball — anti-

disturbance unit. Unit is similar g

[in ils operation as the anti-dis

turbance flashlight, BRF model

IFD-2.

The exception is in the!

type of explosive charge..."

q"Explosive black bor mod-

ules.

Flat black" finish or.

"salod 082

wouns

Matar Dile desires

---

## Page 48

біляї

THE NEN YORK TIMES

THURSDAY, JANUARY 23,

1975

U.S. Aide Was Briefed on Assassination Techniques

Senator Asks Question

"Ehaosed is a catalos which)

By NICHOLAS M, HORROCK The Senator said chat he hadisas pus regeiher naly after we

q"Telephone handset insert.:

been told that the agency's men stared

Miniature. activator

with time

WASHINGTON,

Jan.

22-A had done nothing to encourage Lou

worAir.d

sogether

with delay

top official of the Federal Drug lane manufactuser to think that line el

Conein. 1

.. * use irside lelephonel

wenie out this.

handser.

Automatic

charsel

Enforcement

Administration

equipmen:

he might make a sale to their, you and. Lou in

with, fired at-SEC following lifuing

mind,

and b1'.!

Isaid today that he had been

lagency.

icalise of the nature of the devi.

of instrumere hardpiece.

"Cigarette pack

= antidis.

briefed

described

what

have

been:

"My question was, why in the ces. it is aot being given to any.

as.

electrori

• a5::

¡hell didn't they do someihing io one else..: Some no this equip. turbance

explosive.

Electronics

sassination techniques by a pri- 'discourage him" Mir. Weickerimen: was demonstrated to trulghd

explosive moduie

packedi

vate manufacturer of wiresap

said.

lin this olfice about 3 weeks inside cigarette pack.

When thei

ping and bugging equipment.

One of iwo men who briefediago."

pack is lified or moved in any

manner, the explosive is set

one official, Lieue Col Lucien Col. Concin, Michael Morissey:

*Semo is Signed Silke'

¡ off."

acting director

told a reporter that he had met

special.

operations

and

field•

The memo was dated Junci

"sioditied flashiight"

with him for three hours. show-l10.

support seccion

of D.E.A.'s

1974, and

Standard

in ing him audio equipment and Mike.

was signed antidisturbance urit.

Everyready 2D cell flashiight

It is -pare of the

; has antidisturbance electronics

brefing in say. 197 rosi ree Scribed by senator weicker inthat tas raused ir. Weirher concealed inside where batteries

10- question whether tre

reia: have been removed

presentatives of the now. de

unct B. R. Fox Company

Colonel Conein, asked about|tionship berween Colonel Co-lof the baitery

not asked for the briding had the or crite the diate on a

that he had nein

ar.d

the

assassel con With e bassire space, is paried

jequipmeai.manufacturer.ras a

q''Remoie - controlled,

light-

Fox's Casual one.

activated

sensor, l'nit delivers

had no interest.in the equip

sassination aspects

accuioment.

and

wow ent

When

asied by a reporer, a predeichmined charge across

ment.

Several law enforcement offi-i

touch that sulf with a 10-foot, about the memorandum, Colo- its output terminals.

when ac-

cials

and

Sciate investigators;

ipole."

nel

Conein

said that

he was! -tivated from a remote locationi

said that this was the first time

He continued:

"That stuff is shown in during an interview; according 10 ils pre-ser code.

they had

seen evidence that' a

only good in a war, and who's with Senator Weicker

Use

with

explosive for firing

domestic Federal agency.wouid

'gat a war? it was very sophisti-

"I 30:d tim l had no idea

upon the occurrence of certain

the

contex:

look: at.

assassinazion

cated

stuff. They

had 3 tele

in which

it

was

even.

conditions relating to light in-

shone that could be

triggered

s'ntten,

and hat

had

tensity."

equipment.

Served In Salgoi

by remote control. If the wrong!

Morrissey (before

4"Bnoby-trapped,

49-16

ex-

person

According

to

the Pentagon

picked up.

the phone.

¡the suies demonstration]: I saidi

plosive clip. Use: 'A mechanical.

you'd blow him.up.

if I was him (Senator Weicker).!

ly activated

electronic charge

papers

on

United 'States

coisemant

the.t indochina

Colonel Concin said that heover to she F.B.l. and let trem

I would tura the memorandum, circuit is built into a common,

war, Colonel Concin was a se-

had found the material "fascin-!

ating"

military item. Upon removal ofi

but

that

he had said!

investigate. I told him i would line singie round in the maga-

nior operative of the Central In-

telligence Agency in Saigor.

in

nothing

lo encourage the idea the maiter."

¡be giad to take a polygraph on izine.

either

by

thand removal.

firing

by

that the ageney would parchase

the

explosive

1963 and served as liaison be

tween

the

United

States:

such equipment. He said that hellad listened to a detalled pres-il'detonaled."

Colonel Conein said ta: hellconcealed in the magazine is

had. purchased

about

$500

Government and forces that de-

worth ul audio equipment from

entation on the booby-trap.

as-1

q" Fragmentation ball — anti-

posed

President • Ngo : Dinh

the B. R. Fox Compans.

¡sassination devices.

but he

which,

didi!disturbance unit. Unit is similari

Diem®

1n0!

"discourage" the manulac- in its operation as the arti-dis.!

Senator Lowell P

• Weirker!

he said could be used for bug turer because he presumed enat turbance flashlight, BRF model

Ir.,

Republican of Connecticul.

ging.

as a licersed electronics com.

who has een conducting an in-

involve-

The equipment he houghs, he pany it had the authorse

¡FD- 2.

The exception is in

vestigation of

C.l.A.

lisaid.

cannot

used in the produce the expiosive devices.

United States

without a court,

q Expiosive blacir box mod.

men!

wich

other

overnment

Colonel Conein told Senator

agencies, said that he

has : 8:

order but is for use in D.E.a's Weicker, as he had a reporter.

forcign

operations.

ules. . . Flat biacis finish on

сору

the

catalogue

of

said, that

despite the

nstrumenis

described to Colo-

however, that the Rear had not of the

presentation

assassination

nel Concin-

gear.

been used, and. "I still have i: in had seiected B R. Fox out ofi

my safe."

When questioned by a repor-

several companies to

provide

The

sir.

Weicker

described.the

briefing

for Colonel burging equipment.

To

ter,

¡devices as "used for

assassina

Comein was conducied bu te this

Purchase.

sion, vure and simple.":

ignored

Colonel Corers!

presentaliars

c!,

"There is no place in thisi dex York man on behalf of the

Morrissey and an unidentified several betier known concerns.

i!r.

Parieis.

¡couniry for this sore of thing.""

the agency as-!

Fox Company.

which had olfi- ministraior.

said that he das

she added.

ces in Alexandria, Va., and.Sew

Mr. Weicker said that he had! York Cir.

conducting an internal isguiry

Mir. Morrissey suid

into the transaction

brought the catalogue to the ai that he had presented deinis

Morrisses identified

tention of John

Bartels,

admi-ion the

company's electronic copy of the cataiogue obtainad

nistrator of the Drug Enforce:

surveillance

cquipmen:

and

The Jew j'or Times as a

iment Adminisuration.

the

and that wha: she catalogue calis ""asiro

photosial of one that he.tracd

had • interviewed

Colonell equipment."

in the spang dó 1974. The sa.

Concin and the colorel's depu-i

Senator Welcker has oblaines

formal catalogue sald final the

iy,

Seari Frank.

He

said back;

a mimo that he said was from malerial could no: be delivered

the officials

had assured him

! the files of the B. R. Fox Com-

¡for two weeks alier. order and

that the agercy had not pure pans, written to an official of a was for sale ony do the linited

Georgia

arms .. manufacturer. Siates Government. The foilos.

chased any of the devices..

that says:

1ng are excerpis on each item

3.26

available:

---

## Page 49

FBI cable dated! 14 JAIj'25

subject:

Riaddin N. AL-TRYYAR

INTERNAL: SECURITY -IRAQ

---

## Page 50

document dated. 31

DEC: 1966, Bureaul File

2-156., Re: Rolando Arcadio

riasferrer Rojas, Interral

Security - Haiti- Cuba;

Neutrality tratters

(From miami)

---

## Page 51

E-NO: 9 WILL CHECK GLASSIFIL TIDY TOP ANO BOTTOM

1001.05:0717:18

/ CONFIDENTIR

SECRET

CERICAL ROLTING SLiF

TO

NAME AND ADDRESS

C/LA/CAR.

'DATE

:17

INITIALS

SP

DC/LA/CAR

17997

просрет

C/LA/CA (info) 17 00E

DCILA Cinto

CILACAR CRAGY

•L ACTION

DIRECT REPLY

PAPPAOVAL

DISPATCH

I COMMENT

FLE

CONCURAENCE

INFORMATION

I RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

is an old friend of

and originally introduced

Ted Kcussos

Roussos to

in Junc.

picking. up

ROUSSOS

for the

EUR.

considering

on contract

Desk.

Ruth

File: berkeles do i

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS ANO PHONE NO

3.72

CONFIDISTIL

DA TH

L'SCLASSIFIED

ram a 237 Use previous editions

1-98

SECHET

---

## Page 52

SECRET

30 September 1974

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Meeting with Theodore Roussos on 31. August 1974

1.

During subject meeting Mr.

Roussos told me that

Mitchell Livingston WERBELL I11 called him from Atlanta

on 29. August and again on 30 August.

Werbell told Roussos

tnat he was leaving. for Athens on Saturday, 31 August in

order to try

to sell arms to the Greek government.

Werbell

wanted Roussos. to be his

advisor

in

this venture and to

go to Athens.

Werbell

indicated that the total deal could

reach $5,000,000.

Werbell that he would

check

with his

Agency) before giving

Werbell

an

answer.

Roussos to see if

his

"friends" were

arms deals or not. " Roussos

on the telephone

had

generally explained

on 29 August.

on the telephone was negative

-to Roussos

participation

such a deal, and he had

conveyed this negative

to Werbell by telephone

before: Roussos and I met personally on 31 August.

2.

During our personal meeting, Roussos

explained

that Werbell

intended

to pursue arms sales legally and

via the required U.S. Government

channels.

He sald that

Werbell

does have the capabilities

to

design and produce

weapons.

because of his

•ess

10

arms

factories.

I told

Roussos

that Werbell's

nessiactivities were his own

concern.

i strongly

ad

ied against his getting involved

in this

deal

I explained to him the problems which

the

U.S. Government was having

1n

Greece and the current wave

of anti-Americanism and press

attacks against the ClA.

If Roussos..as

a former

CIA

officer all

known in Greece

became

involved in

such a venture.

a flap of substantial

proportions was likely

complete with

widespread press

play.

ROUSSOS

understood and agreed not to get involved.

E2

IMPDET

CL

BY

035682

SECRET

---

## Page 53

SECRET

said

wortell anuld probably. call him from Athens that

weekend

and he would give Werbell a final

negative reply.

Kerbell planned to meet with Greek Defense Minister

Averoff:

Roussos said that if. the U.S. wanted to stop

tnis. deal that we should contact Averoff directly..

From what Werbell said,

Roussos belleves: the arms

requested by thi Greeks would ue for guerrillas and

not main force enits.

AC/E/GC

Distribution:

_ - Werbell 201

• RouSSOS

Personnel

File

S E. C

R

•ET

3.27

---

## Page 54

SECRET

GAUG E74

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA:

SUBJECT:

Deputy Director for Operations

Mitchell Livingston Werbell 1l1

1.

Mitchell Livingston Werbell Ill, who served briefly

with the OSS in WWIl, has been

for the past several

years in arms dealings and swash-buckling promotional

actlvities which have brought him to the attention of various

government agencies.: He has always remained within the

Taw by a fine edge.

His latest scheme involves a Movement

for the Independence of Abaço, an island to the East of the

Bahamas.

For.this.he has-obtained apparently substantial

financial support from wealthy Americans and from a British

Lord.

2.

Werbell operates through a number of front businesses

in Washington,.

one outfit named

central infornation Agency iclagre he owns

In all

his dealings, Werbell broadly hints that he has current

connections with the Agency.

We have just learned that

Werbell may be in possession of a one-line note

from you.

stemming from a chance meeting with you at an oSs alumni

dinner, reading something like "good to see you again."

3.

Three retired Agency employees are currently employed

by Herbell in various capacities.

This past spring these

employees sought contact with the Agency basically to report

their roncern over the legality o: derbell's activities.

quickly established that

the matter was outside our charter

and asked these retirees to report directly to the federal

Bureau of Investigation..

He also firnished the Bureau with

all

the pertinent information in ou: files.

It is to be

noted that somewhere in Werbell's scheme of things there

appears the ubiquitous Andrew st.

George, who plans to write

a story

on Abaco for True magazine.

15/ Da:id A. raillipa

David A. Phillips

Chief

Western

Herisphere

file:

0801: 259910

Division

CC :

DDCI

SECRET

E2

IMPDET

CL BY 010116

---

## Page 55

SECRST

Subject:

Mitchell Livingston Herbell 11l

DDO/C/WH/7/A.Spera:cab/1497 (9 Aug 74)

Distribution:

Orig &

Addressee

DDCI

Exec.

Registry

DOO

ADDO

CI/OPS

OPS/LSN

C/OS/SSD/SB

C/WHD

WH/Security

• C/WH/7

WH/7/CAR Chrono

201-259910

189-9-1

WK/7 (Friends of

Abaco)

SECRET

3,21

---

## Page 56

14-00000

FBI document From.

fitlanta, lu

dated 9 tag: 1974

(notifile)

Subjecti mitchall- Livingston Were!!;

---

## Page 57

S.CRST

14 August 1974

•MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Call from John MULDOON

1.

Approximately 1655 hours, 13 August 1974, a call

was received on C/WH/7's extension,

351-4221 by the Secre-

tary oL

She

answered the extension

by number and the male voice asked to speak tol

The secretary.

asked who was calling and the caller replied

"John MUÜDOON.": The secretary then replied that she was

sorry butl

couldn't be reached.

In response to

MULDOON's query,

"Why not?" and before the secretary could

reply, MULDOON became obstinate and asked who he was speak-

ing to.

replied "his secretary" and then

added that

was away.

When MULDOON asked where

he was, the secretary replied

that she was not at liberty

to discuss that.

• Then MULDOON asked to speak to

deputy and was

told that there was no one around whom

MULDOON could speak to.

(C/WH/7 was on leave and AC/WH/7

was in the PMC meeting.)

MULDOOM apparently didn't believe

returned ye secret deepled within fee weeks

was expected to

The secretary replied

is on TDY) and then asked if she could take a

message

to give to

Jupon his return.

became belligerent at this point, apparently thinking he

was getting

the

"run around' and

replied, "just tell him

to talk to Jack Anderson" and hung up.

2.

AC/WHD was briefed on the above telephone call at

1740 hours; 13 August.

He decided

no action should be taken

on

13. August, but would like to meet with C/WH/T, l

on 14 August.

3. At 0950 hours, the following met with AC/WHD:

view of C/WHD's previous decision that no further

contact should be made with MULDOON, RUSSOS, or MACKEM it

was decided that no one would return MULDOON's call. How-

ever, AC/WHD would brief ADDo, L

on the above threat,

and WH/7 would

ask OPS/LIAISON to telephonically pass to the

FBI the fact that MULDOON again contacted the Agency

is being sent to OPS/LIAISON

3.11

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 010116

---

## Page 58

SECRIT

Subject:

Telephone Call from John MULDOON

4.

At AC/WHD's request, WH/Security rechecked the

files

on- the three

former Agency employees to determine whether

they were Staff Employees.

All three were former Staff

Employees.

MULDOON retired on medical disability: RUSSOS

retired and then was rehired on a contract basis in February

1971 and contract terminated in September 1973; and MACKEM

was

"separated as excess" in October 1973.

This information.

was

passed to AC/WHD to brief ADDO.

Acting Chief, WHIT

DDO/WH/7/R.Lehman:cab/1956

Distribution:

orig

WH/7 (FOA File).

WH/Security

WH/7/CAR

189-9-1

OPS/LIAISON

FORET

3.19

---

## Page 59

B5:024-4.09

211101098

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20505.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

: Intelligence Division

: Mitchell Livingston WERBELL, I1!

Reference is made to TOFIRDB-315/07634-74.

dated io August 1974, which reported on the growing

concern of the: Bahamian Government about renewed

secessionist activity in Abaco.: In addition to the

information in refererce, the official Bahamian

service, which was the source of the above report;

• also provided a representative of this Agency on

August 1974, the following text of a memorandum.it

prepared for the Secretary of the Bahamian Cabinet:

"Please be advised that on 3 August

1974, information has been received from

contacts that Chester

Chester GARY, has recently

been in touch with Mitchell L. WERBELL,

has reported that WERBELL is still planning

unspecified revolutionary activity in Abaco.

reported that he has the support

of some former U.S. Government employees

and that he is trying to recruit a former

services officer to promote revolu

activity in Abaco (the name of

Robert ARMSTRONG has been put forward as a

possibility).

There is also

a suggestion

that Robert VESCO might be financing some

of the activity."

The "overseas contact" described above was

identified Dy the Bahamian Service as the British

MI-5 representative in Washingten, D.C.

The Bahamian

service did not identify the

Government employees"

referred to

3, 18

CLASSIFIED BY 010116.

EXEMPT FROM GENFRAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E.0. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY

58 (2).

IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

Dialianion

un is de so mind

---

## Page 60

3.

The files of this Agency reflect that Robert

ARMSTRONG and. Chester ZOCHOWSK! are known to your

Bureau and their

involvement in this matter has been

reported.in previous correspondence, to this Agency.

Aithöugh the Bahamian Service reported ZOCHOWSKI's

alias as.

refers s. "Chester GRAY. it is believed that this

The above information is being

furnished to

your Bureau. for whatever action and further dissemi

nation you deem appropriate.

The information, however.

may not be discussed with

any foreign nationals.

including the British and the Bahamians.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

David H.

Blee

CIRA-0444-74

3,18

---

## Page 61

DDO /WH/7/CAR/

Distribution:

Orig.

1

2

Fcab/7493/1956 (12 August 1974)

FBI

OPS/LSN.

CIOPS/WH

201-259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

C/WHD

WH/Security

WH/7/CAR

Chrono

1•89 - 9-1

E/BC

ADDO

DDO

DDU / Registri

AH/7/FOA File

BASED ON:

(In 330060) dated 9 August 1974

OBJ - KI

3.18

---

## Page 62

Est document from San Diego

datia → August, 1974

(As FBi file)

Subject: mitchell Givirgston, werbell,

III

---

## Page 63

- SECRET/SENSITIVE...

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

=010 74-4068

# AUG 191

MENO RANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

:.

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Intelligence Division

Mitchell Livingston WERBELL, IlI

1.

Reference is made

to your memorandum dated

6 August 1974; Subject: "Mitchell Livingston WERBELL,

Ill,

Internal Security

- Abaco;

Neutrality Matters.

Abaco;" your reference (CI-3) 62-108665.

2.

Authorization.is granted for your Bureau to

disseminate

the attachment to Reference (your Büreau's

conceandus dable zi du the Department of stage, ene

Georgia,

•Bureau of Customs, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and

Firearms and the Criminal Division of the Department

of Justice.

we would, however, appreciate your

limiting the description of

source AT T-l as being

simply another government agency.

3.

This Agency is most appreciative of your Bureau's

handling of this sensitive matter and particularly the

opportunity afforded this Agency to coordinate prior to

further dissemination of this material.

We will be most interested in receiving any

additional information

concerning this matter which may

to your Bureau's attention.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

David H. Blee

CIRA-0439-74

•=.!?

CLASSIFIEC BY 010116.

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE. OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY

58 (2). ' IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 64

DDO/KH/7/CAR

Distribution:

Orig. & 1

FBI

.2 - OPS/LSN

- CIOPS/KH

201-259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

C/WHD

Wh/Security

WH/.7/CAR Chrono

•789-9-1

C/DCD

ADDO

DDO

1

DDO/Registry

1 -

FOA File

:ar: 7493/1956 (9 August 1974)

BASED ON:

FBI Memorandum dated 6 August 1974

Subject:

"Mitchell Livingston WERBELL,

III,

Internal Security - Abaco:

Neutrality

Matters

Abaco;"

your reference (CI-3) 62-108665

SECRET/SENSITIVE 3.17

---

## Page 65

FBI document dated 6 Rug., 1974

from wastington. D.c.

suredi file- ((73) 62-108665

Subject: Mitchall kiringstor Werkell, III

Interrai Searity-Abaco

Neutrally Matters -Abeco

---

## Page 66

CONFIDENTIAL

DX-LECILE

30 July 1974

MENORANUUM FOR: Chlef, Western Hemisphere Divigion

SUBJECT:

OMitchell Liviagston Karbell and ile

Maployuent of Former CIA haployeen

REF FRENCE:

CTRA-0371-74; Subject: Mitchell Liviagston

KIRBELL, III.

1. • On 29 July 1974, W1ll1am Mchonnell, FBI liaison

officer, delivered the attached FBI memorandun to OPS/LST.

• In delivering this memorandun, lchonnell stated that whereas

the last sentence of paragraph 3 reads. "by individuals des

cribed as former United States Government employees," Gra?

actually said

that Ferbell had indicated that he was beicz

assisted by former CIA employees.

The FBI chose to use the

tern

"former United States Government employces" in the a'-

tached memorandun in order to 'make the memorandun less sea-

sational."

This memorandun should be read in conjunction with

CIRA-0371-Zk subject:

Mitchell Livingston Ferbell Ill, dated

27 June 1074.

The FBI requests nuthorization to forward a copy of

CIR:-0371-74 to the Departgent of Justice.

As. this memorandun

was forwarded to the Bureau for its information only, your views

on its passage to the Department of Justico are solicited.

FBI plans to ask the Departant of justice if the Departea:

wishes the Bureau to investigate Mitchell Warbell for possible

violation of the Neutrality Act.

Signed:

RECORD GORY

C7OPS/LSN

F2

IMPI

CL BY 054698

5 21y 77

201--

554410

---

## Page 67

DDO/OPS/LSN/

J/ck

Distribution:

O&1 - Addressee

1-

Chief, OS/SSD

TH/Security

1

•#H/7/CAR

1

IP/AN - 201-259910

•1

..OPS/LSN

= OpS Reading Board

"ra.

104112:0

i miss

(30 July 74)

20ur8:

'!::

..!.

1.0:

---

## Page 68

-SECRET/SENSITIVE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Intelligence Division

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

A.

Conversation between Mr. William

McDonnell, FBI Liaison Officer and

Mr. F.I.G.

Coleman of this Agency

on 29 July. 1974.:

B .

F61 New York Report dated 19 July.

Subject as above.

1.

Authorization is granted for your Bureau to pass

a copy of CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974, Subject as

above, to the Department of justice for its use.

We wish

to make it clear.

that the former Agency. employees mentioned

in paragraph 2 of that report:

John Patrick MULDOON and

Theodore John ROUSSOS, provided their information voluntarily.

with the intent of seeking the advice.of this Agency on the

legality of the proposed venture of the Friends of Abaco

(FOA) :

Both

men

were advised to avoid contact with the

FOA and to report their contacts

to the Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

2.

This Agency has not initiated any further contact

with

the individuals named above or with waltei doseph lacken,

the third former

employee approached by the FOA.

MACKEM,

however, did himself

contact this Agency in an attcmpt to get

an official policy on the activities of the FOA. He las

CLASSIFIEO BY 010116.

EXEMPT FRO!: GEMERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 58

IMPOSSISLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

3. in

SECRET/SENSITIVE

20:1-259910

---

## Page 69

SECRET/SENSITIVE

informed that the. case comes under FBI jurisdiction,

that

this Agency has no official

involvement, and

that all

information

lie had on the matter had been made available

to your.

Bureau.

He was advised at that time to report

his contacts and any information he had to your Bureau..

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

151. David A. Fhillips

David A. Phillips

• CIRA-0432-74

SECRET/SENSITIVE

3.14

---

## Page 70

SECRET/SENSITIVS

DDO / WH/7/CAR//

Distribution:

Orig

: cm: 7493/1956 (5 August 74)

FBI

OPS/LSN

CIOPS/WH

201-259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

WH/Security

WH/7/CAR Chrono

189-9-1

BASED ON:

C/OPS/LSN Memo to C/WHD dated

30 July 1974

Subject:

Mitchell Livingston

WERBElL and

his Employment of Former Agency

Employees

SECRET/SENSITIVE 3.14

---

## Page 71

SECRET

1850.

Chief of station,

Chief, lestern Herisphere Olrision

Mitchell Liringston HERBELL: IlL:

XX

For your background information,

attached under

separate cover is one copy each of the following documents

•concerning Subject:

a. CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974 -

Do. LNERGO. New York memo dated 19 July 1974

In forwarding the 19 July New York memo mentloned above,

LNERGO reported that in the last sentence of paragraph 3, GRAY

actually said that WERBELL had indicated he was being assisted

by forner KHERALD

employees.

LiEnSO chose to substitute LisuZZ

In order to 'make the memo less sensational.'

A Copy of CIRA-0371-74 is being passed to the Department

of Justice.

Attachments:

As stated

above. u/s/c

Distribution:

.2 - CoS,

(w/atts, u/s/c)

CROSS EURIAGE TO

DiSPATCH SEWERE AND ALMONE

UFPS- 419

cLassification

SECRET

CitKia

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 010116

I DATE

5 August 1979

MOI FILE NUMBLE-

21-2599 eill

MIGNSTAG

ege

7493

125:

COCHISTE

3:1:092, 9:0!

Internal Distribution:

NH/REG

1/02.1

201-259910 1/1-6

189-9-1811-5 above

WH/7/CAR/Friends

of abaco fiie

w/o

att

53

116

CHEERIN.S

ci.i,

TEs:

3.13

• 13.

Flies: 19

•Stitcass, 6:1.01

---

## Page 72

cd-idonor

Fs1 do urent doted 19 Jily 1974

from. Neus Zork

subiect: Miterail Lirineston

ierkall, Til

Intirral Seuirityy-Abaco

Neutrality Mattar-Rbico

---

## Page 73

(?AOEN1141

1 AUG 15/4

TO:

FROM:

SUBJ RCT:

Director.

Federal Biresu of Investigation

Attention:

Intelligence Division

Deputy Director for Operations

Traces Roquested by Mr. Wayne Yrankenfield

Thie senorindus le in response to trace requeste

made by Mr. Wayne Frankenfield of the General Investigative

Division on 29 July 1974.

- 2.

The files of this office reveal no pertinent identi

fiablo information on:

Advance Security Corporation of Atlanta, Georgia

Toward GIBSON of Georgia

Security Defense Syates of Marlotta, Goorgla

Nothing la known of the Central Investigativo Agoncy,

except as reported by the fBl.

301.0359710

The files of thia office contain considerable informa-

tion on Mitchell Livingstoo'WERBFLL III, born 8 March 1918 1n

Philadelphia, Pa.

The majority of thie information was recolved

Irow the FBI.

This office previously furnished the Bureau: infor

mation on Forbell under CSCI-3/773317 of 24 October 1962,

subject

WARBLL, Mitchell L.: and CSCI-316/02323-69 Of 27 JuDo 1969, Bub

Ject WIRBELL, Mitchell Livlagston IlI.

• 5.

Verbell has never been enployed by this Agency nor does

the Agency have any operational interest 10 hia..

As a 2nd

Lieutenant In the Sigoal Corps In the China-Burma tbeater in

V7 Il, berbell was assigged to CSS Iron April to December 1945.

In August 1959, this office considerod using Verbell as a source

of inforaation on revolutionary activities in the Caribboan aroa, l

i12

RECORD C:

F2 IMPDFT

• CL BY 054698

Cl Aug 74

201-25-8710

listen

---

## Page 74

COAICENTIAL

particularly Cuba, but terainated its consideration of hia

possible

use in October 1959. From Necenber 1965 to November

1966,

Ferboll contacted thig

Agoncy's Domestic Collection.

Divisior in Coral Gables, Florida to voluntarily offer lofer-

antion.

6.

gerbell has boon assessed as

an unscrupulous booler

dealer, a promotor of grandiose schemes, a man gho lives beyond

bis means,. and a high pressure advertising and promotion man.

He has repeatedly misrepresented himgolf as both an employee

of the u.s, government and the CIA.

As an arms dealer, he has

boon Involved with numerous Latin American governments

and exile

groups since the late 1950°g and 18 now involved in Bahaman af

fairs. "In 1969, he was in Thallend, attempting to sell the

governmont arms

and a program to neutralize the communist threat

in that country.

Werbell oporated & publie relations firm 1o Atlanta which

went into bankruptcy in 1959.

He subsequently became Vice Presl-

dent and prector of Research and levelopment of sIckies,

Inc.

of Atlanta, Gorgia and

later becano a partner in Defense Systens

International of Powder Spriogs, Georgla.

For further Iotormation on Herbell,

you are referred to

tho Department of Defense

and the Departmont of State.

30-0900354

The indices of thie office reflect a Stephen

Van' CLRAVE,

President of Intolligence Services, ltd.,

Suite 11-B, 130 Wost

Weucoa Rd., N.F., Atlanta, Georgia; telephone AC 404-255-7493.

The document concerning Yan Cleave Is charged out, and so are

sooking to locate it.

100-201

John Patrick-MULDOON 18,

as stated in our CIRA-0371-74

of 27

June 1974, subject Mitchell Livingston Werbell Ill, a 10r-

ner Agency employee.

For further infornation on Muldoon, you

aro referred to this Agency'a Office of Security.

CIR-316/01815-74

C/OPS/LSN/L

Distribution:

08:1 - Addressee

2 - OPS/LSN

- IP/AN

Vck

(1 August 1974)

2

3.12

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 75

MENOR SDUM FOR: Associate General Counsel, OGC

VIA

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Deputy Director for Operations

Sitchell Livingston NER BELL III

jaur memorandüm of 21 February 1976,.

subject as giove

Per reference recuest, le are forwarcing

infornation in our files concerning contacts that have

taken place betieen this Arency and KER BSLL.

inter Lae

2.

The following is a summary of all Dio contact

directly with WER. BELL

which cook place in 1959:

a.

A. 6. July 1959 Nezorandun to C/KH Division

signed by

Cabell

called

stated that General

_to resort that WER BELL had

Called hin.

WEK BELL discussed with General Cabell

a trip KER BELL had taken to the Dominican Republic

and offered to come to hashingion at his own

to discuss the trip.

expense

do cormirments were made to

HER BELL by General Cabell.

b.

/ Juli 1959 Venorandum of Conversation

signed by

siated that KER BELL was

with NER BELL informazion concerning the Dominican

Be pro nation

→ tho discussed

Republic, Fidel Castro, Fulgencio Batista and

General Pedraza.

A S July 1959 Menorandum of Conversation

iched bỳ

called KER BELL tc

stated that on & July 1959

set up an appointment.

KER BELL was told

that the

acrivities

by General fouraza.

tie nas also told

tha?

tie U.S. will observo its incernational

obligazions concerning Cura and. Pedraza, and that

3,45

---

## Page 76

the U.s. would not overlook any violations by.

Pedraza

or his followers of the reutrality lans.

said that the Agency had some interest in

the possibility of his (VER BÉLL's) working

for us as an intelligence gatherer under terms

to be negotiated after be obtained a security.

- clearance: on him.

pointed out that the

Agency was not attempting to limit his actions

in connection with the Doninican Republic, nor

was it assuming any responsibility for those

matters he carried out in his oun behalf.

dictated a Secrecy Agreenent to him and. had him

sign

it.

d.

• 9 July 1959 Senorandum for the Record

sioned by

called him on 9 July T959 from New York.

gave l

further. infornation on Loos, fnu,

the representative

of a Colonel

Frei,' fnu,

of the

Swiss army

who had 1, 000 nen

available for duty

as soldiers.

A 20 July 1959 Nemorandum for the Record

signed by

reported that HER BELL

] from Miami on 20 July to ask about

the Agency picking up the tab for his forthcoming

trip to the Dominican Republic.

They discussed

his clearance which had not come through.

Record sign? bs

A 3 August 1959 Memorandum for the

Treported that

on 24 July 1959 WER BELL called for

Since

the call.

HER BELL SaveL

has on leave,

took

mation concerning Pedraza and Batista.

further infor-

called WER BELL back that erening

to tell him

that if he obtained further information to

roport it to Mr.

1,00 Contacts

Representative in Miani, until Mr.

returned

to lashington.:

N 5 August 1959 Sonorandum for the Record

signed by l

stated

that KER BELL phoncd

him on s August 1959 to ask if there was any now's

on his

clearance.

WER BELL said he wanted to go

Dominican Regublie.soon,

like ClA

pick up his expenses.

lie was

told thcre

k'as no

3,45

---

## Page 77

14-00000

-3.

Jand WER BELL discussed the Dominican

Republic and Cuba.

On 3 August

WER BELL and told hin that his clearance had not

been granted

and that he should zot predicate his

activities on the expectation of the clearance at

any given tine.

HER BELL said hat the Pedraza,

was air lifting and droppiss material into

A 9 September 1959. Memorandum for the

Record signed by.

regerted that

KER BELL.

called Flores

on 9 Septeaber 1959 to

provide infornation on Cuba.

He was told by

Flores that his clearance had nöt set been

processed.

i.

According to a 23 Septenser 1959

Memorandum for the Record signed by

WER BELL called

on 9 Septerber 1959: 20

ask if his clearance had come through since

he wanted the Agency to finance his trip to

the Dominacan Republic. He was ¿old it had

not. WER BELL told

about: sore people

who had been discussing the counterfeiting

of U.

S. dollars and Cuban pesos

for use in

connection with Cuban revolutionary activities.

He was

told by l

Jto contact

the FBI.

On

13 September WER BELL had phoned

_ Jat home

to say

that

the FBI had referred zin to the

Secret

Service on the counterfeiting

aspect,

and that no one

seemed particulari!

interested

in the gun running..

The Secret Service asked

him to go to Miami

at his own expense to obtain

further information on the matter ard kER BELL

advice.

said that he could

not influence him one war or the other since he

was not in a position to direct his

activities,

but felt he might be better off to take no áction.

He was told that l

would be in touch with

him as soon as he had any further infornation

concerning our possible use of him..

A 13 October 1959 Memorandum for she

Record signed by

states that

WIER BELL phoned him on 25 September 1959 to report

on Cuba.

On 2 October 195?,

talied with

NER BEL! ho phone and terminated the relationship.

The following undated memorandurs are also contained in

WER BELL's file:

3.45

---

## Page 78

A Memorandum, for the Record signed by

reports. that bER BELL called

on

15 August

1959

to

discuss Cuban activities in Miami.

This memorandum also records that KER, BELL phoned

again on

26

August 1959 at which time activities

in the

Dominican Republic and Cuban

activities in

Viami here discussed.

KER BELL also asked about the

status of his clearance, and was told it had not yet

come through.

A letter signed "" addressed to "Tom"

gave ww

s" location and some

information concerning

Satista

and Castro.

(This letter is probably in

the 1959 time frame.)

A Memorandum of Conversation sicned o

eports that HER BELL called

Jand:

care his location:

The status of WER BELL's

clearance: was discussed. änd!

told him it

nad not jet come through.

WER BELL gavel

some information concerning-Batista

(This

remorandum probably is in the 1959 tine frame.)

d.

An unsigned report:

apparently from

HER BELL, gave a summar. of his contacts ano

activities during a trip to the Dominican Republic.

(This report is probably in the 1959 tine frame.)

A 17 December 1963 dispatch fron

reperied that Station NOC Officer

recently met

WER BELL

J' to further details of the mecting

were reported.

According to the CS file on her BelL,

three former

Agenc!

employees were contacted

in 1974 hr WER BELL and other

representatives of a group called

"Friends of Abaco

a group allegedly advocating the secession of the isi dA),

Abaco

from

the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.

The three former

employees contacted

are:

a. John Patrick Muldoon, retired fröm

CIA en 20 March 1972.

b. Theodore John scussos, retired from CIA

on 31 July 1900.

He was rehired on a

contract

in Fobruary 1971.

His contract

terminated

in September 1973.

3.45

---

## Page 79

c.

halter Joseph Nacken,

CIA on 31 October 1973.

separated from

Mr.

Muldoon

contacted Agency employeel

on 22 May

1974

Mr

Muldoon told Mr.

that he

was

nominal Vice President of a hashington-based

firm called "Security Consultants International.

He presented

] with a report. containing the essential data he

possessed concerning WER BELl and ocher members of FoA whom

he had met on 17 and 20 May 1974 in Washinston, D.C. According

to Mr. Muldoon, WER BELL had hopes of establishing gaming

casinos, hotel and other tourist facilities in Abaco catering

to the u. S.,

tourist crowd.

with Prime Minister Pindling of the Bahamas, however, WER BELL

is apparently persona non grata in the Bahamas: hence his

ambitions appeared to be, contingent on Abacan independence.

Nr. Muldoon reported that at least on two occasions HER BELL

made a concerted effort to insolve persons formerly affiliated

with the Agency in the activities of the FOA in support of

its independence..

Onseveral occasions, hER. BELL

introduced

Mr. Nuidoon and Mr. Roussos as active Agency officials, implying

that either the Agency or the United States Government supported

the. ains of the FOA.

WER

BELL also proposed. to Messrs:

Muldoon

• and Roussos.

in

separate conversations that they conduct a study,

involving a

visit

to Abaco, to determine the feasibility of

Abaco's

independence

in political

and economic terms.

The

study las to include interviews with citizens of Abaco prior

to an aileged "plebiscite" on independence to take place in

Abaco on 28 June 1974.

In default of the collaboration of

either Muldoon

ST RoussOS.,

KER BELL hired Mr. Walter Joseph

Macken,a forner. Agency: friend of both Muldoon and Roussos.

According to NER BELL's file, Mackem later in 1974 contacted

the Agency in an attempt to get an official policy on the

activities

"of the FOA.

lackem was

informed that

the case

this Agency has no official

on the matter had

been made available to the FBI.

He was advised at that time

to report his. contacts and any information he had to the FBI.

7.

On 24 March 1975, Mr.

assigned to

SE/PCH, reported that during the weck of ? March 1975, he

talliod with Mr. lesley Dycknan.

Mr. Dyckman is a forner Agency

caployee emplojed by the Drug Enforcement Agency. According

to Dyckman, former Agency employee Walter Machom was employed

in

the hashington arca as a private investigator.

He is also

involved with a paramilitary activity funded by

some

unnamed

British source.

The activity, which byckman referred to as

3.45

---

## Page 80

= 6

the new land project" sought to establish a tax shelter on

one of the wur-astands of the Caribbean by forcefully taking

over the island and cstablishing a government there.

Mackem

is supposed involved in the paramilitary training of forces

who would participate in this adventure.

According

to Dycknan,

the paramilitary training supposedly vas to take place in

Georgia, where WER BELL is based.

On 31 August 1974,

MIT

•Roussos

net with Mr.

WER BELL. Was

the

Greek Government.

advisor in this venture and to go to Athens.

Roussos told

HER

BELL that he would check with ClA before giving him an

answer.

WER BELL asked Roussos to see if the Agency was in

favor of

such an arms deal or not:

Roussos' getting involved in this deal.

Strongly advised arain

Rousses told 1

that he understood and agreed not to get involred.

Rous sos

that KER BELL would probably call him from Athens and he

would give WER BELL a final negative reply.

9.

On 22. July 1974, the FBI reported that KER BELL may

be

in possession of a

one-line note from

former CIA Director:

Willian Colby. stemming from a chance meeting

with the Director

at an OSS alumni dinner,

reading sonething like "Good to see

you again."

This note was apparently used by HER BELL to

suggest that he and Mr. Colby were good friends.

This infor-

mation was passed on to Mr. Colby on 9 August 1974.

10.

According to reporting from several Stations, WER BELL

and

Arthur L.

Smith (a cohort of WER BELL's)

vere in

several

Central American countries during August and

carly. September

1962•

Their principal activity appeared to be contacting

officials of the governments of Guatemala, Nicaragua, and

El Salvador for the purpose of obtaining recognition of a

de facto

Cuban Government in exile

called the

"United

Organization for the Liberation of Cuba."

In discussions with

Nicaraguan Government representatives,

WER BELL claimed the

proposed Cuban

Government in exile had the support of 90

scparate Cuban

exile organizations and 186,000 Cuban cxiles..

KER BELL offered

a representative of the Nicaraguan Government

$100,000 to obtain that government's recognition of the Cuban

Gorernment in crile.

The group clained to have its headquarters

at 1025 Connecticut Avenue,

Sir,

in lashington, D.C.

While in

Guatemala, Smith claimed that the group had

man in the

Department of State in Mashingion, D.C., thor they pay 56,000

per year "to hoop, them adrised."

3.45

---

## Page 81

•In December 1965 WER EELL contacted a Miami DCD

asset and told him that he ane six Cuban exiles in

had organized a group, including approximately 20 Cubans

inside Cuba, to perform a concarco operation in Cuba during

carly January 1966..

Their prinary mission was the assassination

of Fidel. Castro, with the

secordary mission of hloring up the

generators that

supply electricity to Havana, Cuba.

at the time, stated

that he has trying to get a "green light".

from CIA to

proceed with

the rission,.

inferred that the

mission would be called off if such approval was not obtained.

On 7 February 1966 the Viani office of the FBI

reported that. WER BELL had beer in contact with various news

agencies concerning an alleged plan to assassinate Fidel. Castro,

and reportedly

also had discussed the plan wich Mr. Richard

PhillipS

Public Affairs Officer, Department of State, Bashington,

HER BELL Claimed to have a

sroup of some 500

men infiltrated

into Cuba and

said that they were ready for action

to overthrow

the regine immediately following the assassination of Castro.

According to

the FBI, WER BELL gave the impression

that he is

acquaiated with

many high government officials,

the U.S.

ard other countries,.

and implied that his assassination plan

been approved by CIA:

Accörding to a memorandum in WER BELL's file, on 7

February 1968, one Bruce Arman

Baker telephoned an employee

of this Agency and said he had

been in contact with WER BELL.

Mr. Baker said that WER BELl was in the weapons manufacturing

business and delivered them by air throughout the world

Mr. Baker said that

he understood that WER BELL does this for

Mr. Baker said that he understood from WER BELL that he

would have to get a ClA security clearance to

fly for WER BELL:

said that he was afraid

that his past smuggling record

keep him from getting a Cli clearance.

WER BELL came to the ¿tention of

in carly 1969 when he went to Thailand representing himself

as Vice President of Sionics, itlanta, Georgia.

He described

himself as a counterinsurgency copert,

hada variety of capons

to display, claimed to be a retired colonel, and introduced

himself at a local nightclub. as Chief of ClA in Thailand.

WER BELL attempted

to.scll arns

to the Thais and aiso to

variety of !.

S. military elemonts.

the gist of his reputation to loy personalities in the U. S.

nission and the Thai Governmen: stressing that he kas. not

sponsored in any hay hy the l. S. Government.

3.45

---

## Page 82

- 8.00

15.

WER BELL was also the subject of tho memorandums

signed by Lawrence R. Housiön.

Mr. Houston, ansiering a

request fron Joscph J. Lichling, Deputy Assistant Secretary

of Defensc,

on

as. February 1971, denied HER BELL's alleged

affiliation with the ClA.

On 26 October 1971, Mr. Houston

wrote Mr. David H. Herretta, Jr., of the Industrial Security

Clearance Revien Division, to return notarized Interrogatories

previously sent by Mr. Henretta.

We have no infornation on Colonel Bayard except news

articles reporting his death which were forwarded by the FBI.

Per your

request, he have

sent instructions to the

LA/Miani Station that there should be no contact with WER BELL.

Nestor D. Sanche=

Acting Chief

Latin America Dirision

DDO/LA/CAR/Cari D. Geisler:rb

Distribution:

Orig

• Addressee

1

- DDO

1

ADDO

DUO/Reg.....

C/LA

C/ LA/CAR

•LA/CAR/Cari chrono

201-259910

Ext. 1956

(3 March 76).

INPOET

CL BY 013913

3,45

---

## Page 83

Fist document dated 24 July!

19-74

From. Las Vegas.

Subject: Mitchell Livingston

Werbell, IlL

---

## Page 84

SEEIST/SENSITIVE

MAPSING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGESCE SOURCES AND WETHODS INVOLVED

27 JUN 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Director

Federäl Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION

:Intelligence Division

SUBJFCT

MITCELL LIVINGSTON VERBELL, IlI

Reference is nade to your Burera's File No.

N 105-21592, Subject as above, and your Bureau's

reporting on Subject's involvement with the "Abaco

Independence Moverene" (AIN) in the Conconwealth of

the Bahanas.

For your information only, three former employees

of this Agercy vere contacted in June 1974 by representatives

Alaco from the

Commonwealth

of the Bahanas.

Contace was initiated by

Mitchell Livingston

HERDELL, Ill, an international arms

dealer, and a naturalised Lithuanian nured Michael OLIVER,

both of whon attenated to involve the corner Agency

employces in the Abaco Independence Movement (AI:l), of

which your Bureau

is faniliar.

The three forner employees

contacted are:

a.

John Patrick MULDOON

DPOB: 25 August 1257, Washington, D. C.

Retired fron

this Agency on 20 March 1972

Address at time of retirement:

#305 Acntbury Drive

Bethesda, Maryland

CLASSIFIED BY 010116. EXEIPT FRO: GEXERAL DECLASSIFICATION

• SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXRIPTIOY CATEGORY SB (2).

INPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE CF ADICIATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

3.9

201-259910

SEE SEASIE

---

## Page 85

SECRET STUSTINE

b.

Theodore John ROUSSOS

• DPOB: 14 July 1919, Hashington, D. C.

Retired: 31 July 1070

Address ar tite of retirement:

2918 liardv Avenue

wheaton, liaryland

Nöte:

ROUSSUS was rehired on a contract

basis in Fchruary 1971...

His contract

has terninated Sertember 1973.

C.

Walter Joseph MACKE!!

DPOB: 13 Vecenber 1937, Omaha, Nebraska

Separated: j1 October 1973

Address at tine of separation:

2609*. Potomac

Arlington, Virginia

3.

Mitchell livingstca WERBELL III, the principal

owner of the

arms manufacturing fira befcase Systens

International

and an international ares.dealer, has been

encouraging a group of sahanian citisons on the island

of Abaco who seck to secode from the Bahamian Commonwealth.

In this affair wERbLLL has been collaborating with a

group based in liami called the "Friends of Abaco."

goulas tic Triends of abaco is Michich OliveR, carson city,

land developer rosiding at

2089 El Rincho Drive,

Nevaja.

OLIVER,

a naturalized U.S. citizen, was born

Moses OLITSKI on 11 Decorbor 1928 in lithronia.

4.

In encouraging persons in Naco to seck

independence of Nassau, OLIVER's apparent notive is to

establish a prototype goverrent based on principles of

free enterprise expounded in a paperback bour which he

has authored called "A Nor Constitution for a New Country"

(Fine Arts Press, Reno, dev. - 1965) .

other hand, has

privately expressed a desire to establish

a tourist mecca on Abaco to include socols, recreation

facilities and gambling casinos. Officials of Holiday

International, a Baltimore firm specialized in recrcation

and health spas, have been briefed by karsEll and OLIVER

recently on the Abaco movement.

13th Lord of Eclhaven and Stenton and a nonber of the

3.9

---

## Page 86

80N27/SS4SI7G

Friends of Abaco, on 10 June 1974 sponsored a resolution

in behalf of the

Abaco Indenendence Movement on the floor

of the British House of Lords, following conversations

with HERBELl in lashington in late May.

Despite the scening innocenre of the chterprise,

however, ie have observed that vERBeLl, in particular,

has nade a concerted effort to involve persons fornerly

affiliated with this Agency in the activities of the

Friends of Abaco in support of Abaco's independence:

On sevcral occasions,

involving at least to forner

MULDOO. and ROUSSOS cited

Agency officials in such a fashion as to imply, according

to the persons involved, that either this agency or the

United States Covernment supports the airs of the

of abaco.

6.

dost recently,

WERBELL has proposed to both

rotired officers in separate conversations that. they

conduct a study, involving a visit to sbaco, to deternine

the feasibility of Abaco's

econozic.terns.

independence in political and

The study

would include interviers with

an alleged "rlebiscite" on

to take place in Abaco on ¿S June 1974.

To be included in the investigation is research on the

probable reaction in the United Nations Orronization to

a petition fron political grouns in Abaco for support on

independence, notably any parallels to be found in

precedents such. as the Biafra secession fron Vigeria.

7• Andrew ST. GEORGE, a nationally known free-lance

writer, has becone active

in HERBELL's orronization

and

clains to be preparing

an article on WERNALL and the

Abaco movement for publication in True Hagazine.

ST. GEORGE has participated in

the several nectings that

HERBELL, OLIVER and their associates have had with the

two retired duency officers, Mr. John MULDCON and

Mr. Ted RoUsSOS.

3.9

---

## Page 87

8.0.:

In default of the collaboration of cither

MULDOON OF ROUSSOS,

VERBELL and OLIVER have hired

Walter Josoph HACKE!, a forner Agency friend of both

MULDOON and ROUSSOS:

John Mulboo" is currently employed as the

Washingion rcpresentative of the

firr Security

• Consultants

International,

a subsidiary of the Atlanta

(Ga.) dctective

agency,

Central Investigative Agency.

employed

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

15/ David A. Phillips

David A. Phillips

CIRA- 0371-74

01162

3,9

---

## Page 88

Scull wilds

Far/4221/14977 (26 June 1974)

DDO/07/7

Distribution:

Orig. &

FBI

OPS/LSN

CIOPS/NH

201 - 259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

C/KHD

KH/Security

- 0/PERSONSEL

for NULDOON

•, ROUSSOS, and

MACKEM's personnel files

1 - WH/7/CAR Chrono

1 - 189-9-1

BASED 0%: Memoranda for the Record dated:

22 May -1974

21 June

1974

22

June -1974

26 June 1974

3.9

---

## Page 89

SECRET

Memorandum for the Record

Subject:

Agency Retiree's

Involvement with

Abaco Independence Group

1..

Through the intermediary of

and retired staffer Jack "Red" Stent,

DC/EA,

I was put in toüch

on 22 May 1974 with John MULDOOs, another

retired staffer

who is now nominal vice-president of a Washington-based

firm called "Security Consultants International."

Muldoon made the contact with me apparently on the

advice of Bob Brown and Red Stent whose counsel he

sought in an effort to protect himself from the possible

implications of his involvement with a group promoting:

the independence of the-Bahamian Connonwealth island of

Abaco.

We met at 1100 hours at "Tony's" on L street

and

18th N.N. in downtown Washington.

Red Stent was

there to

introduce me to Muldoon but he did

not participate

in the discussion.

2.

Muldoon presented me with a typerritten report

containing the essential data he possessed concerning

a

group

of individuals with whom

he had met on Friday

17. May 1977 in Washington.

Attending the mecting with

Muldoon on that occasion were Mitchell KERBELL III (aka

"Mitch Three"), Lord and Lady BELLMAVEN. (alleged British

peers), Mike OLIVER (a wealthy clectronics tycoon of

Europcan, possibly French,

origin who currently resides

in Carson

City, Nevada), Howard HANDELMAY (wachington

correspondent of "U.S. News and world Report"), Renee

(lnu)

(the evening's object of Herbell's seemingly

voracious

affections) and an emplove of the Library of

Congress whom Muldoon chose not to identify to me.

At.

a subsequent mecting on Monday, 20 May 1974, Muldoon

had lunch with WERBELL and free lance writer Andrew St.

GEORGE who is also involved with WERBELL in the Abaco

independence enterprise.

The lerbell group is known

as the

"Friends of Abaco" (already documented as such

in our files).

• 3.1

SECRET.

---

## Page 90

JEGRET

ironludge of the background of the principals

is essential

to a comprehension of the affair as recounted

by Muldoon:

= .

Island of Abaco • From available file

information we know that Abaco is a small island at the

north end of the Bahamas archipelago a short distance.

off the Florida coast: which was populated in 1785 by

British Lovalists and

their Black slaves fleeing the

United States following independence.

The island remains

about' 50g white.

Openly apprehensive in anticipation of

the Bahamas' independence 'from Great Britain, the residents

of Abaco, both white and black, have found themselves -

since independence - the object ef apparent antagonism

and administrative neglect on the part of

the Pindling

/ government, which has fueled talk of secession from

Nassau rule.

This talk has been institutionalized in an

indigenous organization headed by a white, Charles

"Chuck"

• HALL.

and called the Abaco Independence Movenent (AIN).

HALb is a resident of Marsh Grove, the country cross roads

which poses as

the metropolitan capital of baco; he

frequently visits Miami where he meets with lerbell.

b.. Mitchell WERBELL III • A Philadelphian,

WERBELL was a member of OSS in the Far East during lorld

War Il where, according to. Muldoon, he came to know the

Director and

Lou Concin.

Werbell currently a resident

of Atlanta, now is president of an international arms

firm called Defense Systens International (DSI).

industrial security systons,

according to

DSI sells

automatic weapons (including a minia-

ture machine pistol with

a silencer) and bomb-booby-trapped

items of various sorts (e.g., a tennis ball with a fuse

is automatically activated when you stop playing)

and other James Bondian accessories.

Herbell hopes to

establish gaming casinos.

horels and other tourist

facilities

in baco catering to the U.S. tourist crowd

available

easy ferrying from nearby Miani.

consequence of some run-in with Prime Minister Michael

Pindling, however, Herbell is apparently permanently

persona non grata in the Bahamas; hence his ambitions

appear to be contingent on Abacon independence.

Mike OLIVER - The financial angel of che

"friends of thaco," Oliver's origins and auspices are

somewhar

obscure to Muldoon.

OLIVER clains to have spent

3.6

SEGRET

---

## Page 91

SEGRET

time in a lazi concentration camp during world war lI:

he speaks excellent French; he has a per political

theer which he has publisted. He is secking

political entity where he can put his theory some

practice to illustrate to the U.S. government that it

is worth practicing in this country.

In contrast to

This colleague witch

Three Werbell, however, he seems

adamantly opposed to establishing a gambling empire.

Lord and Lady BELLHAVES - A member of

the British House of Lords, BELLHAVEY plans to make

a speech shere, following his return to London. on 22

May 1974, castigating the British government for

allowing Abaco to be abused by jassau.

BELLHANEA

appears to be identical with Kobert Anthony Carmichael

• born 27: Feb 27, the 15th Lord of BELHAVEN

and STENTOS. His wife is the former Elizabeth Ann

NOSELET"

daughter of the late Colonel Arthur Henry.

MOSELEY

(whose claim to fame remains. to be probated).

This information comes from several

English peerage which were researched for me by Sally

Brown of E/BC.

Howard HANDELILAV - The U.S. News and

World Report correspondent also has contacts with the

Agency, a fact which concerns Muldoon.

f.

Central Investigation Agency - An Atlanta

detective Agency established a

few years ago by Howard

COSGROVE,

a former Georgia police officer specialised

in narcotics operations tho was apparently fired from

the force for reasons unknown to Muldoon.

retains a 26; interest in the CIA (sic); Mitchell

WERBELL

If ("Mitch Four") holds another. 26g and a re-

maining 6% interest is held by the nominal president of

"CIA,"

a retired Army colonel named Byer or Briar.

The

"ClA" has in turn establisied Securir! Consultants Inter-

national,

as a Washington-based wholly ouned subsidiary.

SCI's

specialities are

anti-audio sheeps and electronic

suricillance using devices devcloped by one David NORISSEY,

an electronics engineer who collaborates with MuLDooN &

"CIA."

The incident which alarmed Muldoon occurred

the Friday gathering of the individuals mentioned

in paragraph

Muldoon was palmed off by Herbell at

gaihering

an "official of the CIA (Contral

3.8

SECRET

---

## Page 92

SECHET

Intelligence Agency, in this

instance)" who was there

to attest to the fact that neither the ClA nor the U.S.

Government is opposed to Abacan independence.

interlocutors, despite Muldoon's protests that he was

from. CIA and in no way represented U.S. government

interests respecting Abaco, scened

- he felt

to accept his presence there as evidence of U.s.

government endordsenent of the Abacan independence movement.

•S:

.. Muldoon took

some pains to gain reassurance that

he would not be pinpointed by verbell as the source of

this information if any

action here taken on it.

assured him that, apart from the particular incident on

17. May 1974, the

general outlines of NERBELL and his

activities and aspirations for Abaco have already been

reported by two or three other sources. Since there is

nothing the Agency can plausibly do at this juncture

about WERBELL'S

apparent effort to con his supporters

into thinking that the CIA was backing the Abaco

independence venture, I told Muldoon I planned merely

to nake his side of this story a matter of record and

let it go at that.:

6..

To cap off the story, Red Stent invited us to

lunch

at

the Class Reunion on

Eye Strect ard 18th.

When

Muldoon and I arrived to meet Stent we found him ensconced

at a corner table with

three other people.

Red rushed

over to inform

us that he would be introducing me as a

colleague of his from AEROJET.

He then presented me to

WERBELL, Herbell's date. Patricia BOTOYD and Cecil BROWVLOW

of "Aviation leekly."

WERBELL, looking for all the world

like Jerry Colonna, was intent

on the task of seducing

Miss BOTOND, who happened to be promoting a convention

for the Atlantic Union organization,

a political

enterprise

which is an offshoot of the world Federalists Vovement.

Miss BOTOND, as it turned out was reared in

at the same

Shanghai, China,

time as Stent.

Red had attended school with

her brother - the German Schoul in Shanghai.

Miss BOTOND

had been expelled from the German school in the late 1930s

for having had anti-va=i doodles in her copybook.

Brownlow had helped Red obtain acrial photos of the

ChiCom consulate compound in Geneva in the early 1960s

when Red was stationed in Paris.

When Herbell had

wearied of the rominisences of Stent and Botond and had

managed to hustle his prey off to a private table,

Stent

revealed to BROsiLot that I was not AEROJET but CIA.

Fortunately my name nas

mumbled at the introduction so that

no one

could have regeated it.

No one

in fact seemed

interested.

SEGRET

13,8

---

## Page 93

SECTET

7.

Following lunch Muldoon lelt witn a culleague

for a necting at the Justice Department to determine

whether in

sweeping Embassy buildings in Washington

he

must register.as en

agent of a foreign government

(whicherer it might be).

Brosinlot went about his

business.

Stent paid for the lunch.

I returned to

what Stent whimsically refers to as the "Funny Farm."

My only regret is that George Orwell could not have

joined us for that lunch.

isdf

DC/KH/7

(24 Nay 74)

DDO/WH/ 71

Distribution:

Orig - DC/EA

189-9-1

201-259910

C/WH/.7

DC/WHD

SECRET

3.8

---

## Page 94

EDUCATION:

TRAVEL:

PAPERS:

DATA DATED:

TUS:

÷58 126

7 July 1965

RIOGRAPRICAL DATA

BOTOND, Istran

17 Aug 1921, Fungary

USA, Raturalized, May 12, 1962

2152 Wyomles Ave., M.W.,. Washington, D.C.

BOOND, Patricia, Hee: POrTER

BOTOND, Kristina; b. e1960

BOTOND, Andrew; b. c1962

Step-Children:

Lila; D. c1948

Christopher; b. c1947

Architect/Urban Designer. The Perkins & Will

Partnership, Washington, D.C.

1955:

Budapest, Hungary

Palatine Josepk Folytechnic University,

1961: Faivard Univeraity, Cantridge, Mass

Extensive

F.I.C.A.: 074-32-6419

Not Dated

3.

---

## Page 95

ISTVAN BOTUND, A.I.A.

Architece/Urban Designer

2152 Fiyoming Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20008 (202) DLjsS 7-7525

•Age:

43

Born: August 1%, 1921, Hungary

Citizenship:

Marical status:

U:S.A. Naturalized, May 12, 1962)

Married

Wife: Patricia Potter Botand (U.S.A.)

Childrea: Kristina, 3 1/2 years

Andrew, 2 years

(Lila, I6 years, and Christopher, 15 géars, froc

wife's previous marriage are not hilly dependen)

F.I.C.A.

074-32-6419

"Educadon:

Professional

Afiliadon:

Awards:

Languages:

. Travel:

Lterests:

Dipl. Architect

Palatine Joseph Polytechaic Cniversity,

Facülty of Architecture and Engineering,

Budapest, Hungary, 1955

Master of Architecture in Urban Design

Harvard University, Gracuate School of Design,

Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1961*

Registered Architect

New York Scate

# 8181

District of Colúmbla..-#:A=1576--

NCARB Certificate

# 4936

Corporate Niember,

American Institute of Architects, Washington Metropolitan Chapter

1954, Fourth Prize for replanning of a bombed city square and

neiglborhood in Debrecen, Hungary (co-designer)

1961, Scholarship at Centro Iatrazionale di Studi

di Architertura "Andrea Palladio, " Haly

English, Hungartan, German, French (acqualatasce)

The Eahamas '58; Europe. '59, '62, '65; Canada '61, '62;

U.S. 91rg1a Islaads '63, '6S; Berruda '63

Music, phorograpiry, sporta: akllag, denals

---

## Page 96

Istyla Boroad, pag: 2

Publicadons:

Magyar Epitomtveszet ("'Hungarian Architecture") - monebly

Jan. '56: Airport and Bulldings (Diplona theals)

Jul; '58: Furniture Factory in Debreces, Hungary

Harvard University Library

Factore that Shape the City. Case Stidy •- Budapest

PROFESSIONAL June 1963 - Preveal

; EXPERIENCE

The Perklas & Will Partership, Architects

- Washingtos, D.C.

Head of Desiga Departmeat

Responsible and Irvolved in every design job as guide and

crite. In addition to administradve duties (Personnel, Budges,

Schedules, etc.), active designer of two major projecte

a) University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.

Teaching Hospital and Ambulant Patient Pacilides

First stage ready for bid

EDE: $7, 500, 000

b) Dike University, Durham, N.C.

Rescarch Laboratory Bullding for Medical Sciences

Working drawings under preparation

Est: $5,400,000

Other Department works:

Duke University, Durham, N.C.

Main Entrance

Bid: $ 3,700, 000

Duke Untersity, Durham, N.C.

Clinical Research II Bulldings

Est: $ 1,800,000

George Washtagton University, Washingtar, D.C.

Long Range Plaa

Doctors" Office Buildlag, Washlngton, D.C.

Est: $2, 600.000

Virgin Islands Medical Centert: St. Thomas, St. Grols

Est $ 14, 000, 000 each

3.6

---

## Page 97

Istria Bobood, Doge 3

PROPESSIONAL

EXPERIENCE

December 1956-Juse 1969

(Absent ten months for Post-Graduate Studies)

I.M. Pel & Assoclades, Architecta & Planners

New York, New York

Architect Designer/Planner:

•Hotel Denver Hiltor: design work and detalling of precast

exterior and store fronts

M. I. T. Earth Science Building: preliminary design

and planning work

Uniod Station area project, Toronto, Canada: alte

analysts and feasibility studies

"Financial Plaza, " Downtown Toroato, Cárada:

preliminary saidies for a banks and otfice buildinga

project

Weybosset Hill, Urban Renewal Project, Providence, R. I.:

Urban Designer in the Planning Team

Newhouse Communication Center, School of Jourcalism,

Syracuse University, New York: consultant on precast

exterior system

Town Center Plaza, Southwest Washington, D.C.: site

study for extension of a newly construcsed Houslog-

Stopping projecs.

Prior to December 1956

Various architectural positions in Hungary (part-dme

during Uriversity years.)

Final year: (August 1955-November 1956) Head of

Architectural Department in the Reglocal Planning

•. Bureau for Northeast Hungary. Dutlea similar to

present posidon.

316

---

## Page 98

desin dur

noral Tratinant Coponen

Tonghant la Pacific

SUITE 409/ 1451 SOUTH KING STREET / HONOLULU, ILAWAII 9E814/ PHONÉ 219-4733 /Cable Address: GENZNYCO

Dois &

Bradstreet,

Inco

Krio

508

•677 Ala

Moana

soniulu, lavalt

96814

Ate'n: deil Leitner

Nca!

Wr

idive

a financial

statemént oa Oliver-Rora Corpo

10/43/69 by Chalk &

Joerde

dated

CPA S,

717 North Curry SEri

Do: 2060, Carson City,

.P. 0.

Nevada, 89071.

N. aparaisal of an "Oliver subdivision" by doole

Reni

Novida.

rocate appraiaer & Consulcant, 2345. Camas Rd.,

Murray,

Carson City

Moranel Oliver, en Elactronie's ¿agincer, of 2039 El Ráncho.

Drive,

Carson City, Nevada, is

President

of

at least

E WO

corporations, author of

ha::

New Constitucion Zor A New Country":

conmiceuent fron Whitchall Securities

Осели?ore,

sew Jarsay,

Corpo.

138 Main

SE.

to his Vanguard Corp.

arios oi 500,000 shares of consoa stoci at $10.00

ünderwrite the

deül fell chru because

per share;

britten or Dutch

goveratenes ladled

to

cole thru with: sax reliel.

singorely.

ICO 7i Jonick

Se ha de pie

LrJ/aba

---

## Page 99

j.d...

read to Mas

65 52

C4-712-3096

VANGUARO CORP

OR 48 MAR' 14

: 1969. N

LAND DEVELOPVENT

1968

2089 EL RANCHO OR

CARSON CITY NEV

89701

TEL 702 882-2683

SUWARY

PRES

PAYMENTS

EMPLOYS

SETTY S.

(MRS.

M.) OLIVER,

SEC-TREAS

RECORO

DIRECTORS:

THE officors and l

A.

Joseph A.

Foss Jr, Dr.

R. 6.

williams, o.

whi morer. Malors,

Arthur. L. Bonike, and Robert johnson.

UNDETERMINED

CLEAR

PAYMENTS

HiSTORY:

HISTORY

suppliers for this operation were

not located during current. investin

gation. Oliver's personal payment record is satisfactory.

On-Mar

19 1969, M. OLiVGS,

president, was unavailable

for an interview.

Dersoutside gourd Apr 25 196e the following statement tron Michael oliver,

Accts Rec

, 300

Awlna Autos

3,200

Coin Collection & Stocks

6,000

07 0 00

Current

15,500

Current

3,359

RE

327,000

MTOS

Autos

5,900

NET WORTH

27,047

318,003

Total

348,400

Total

348,400

Unsigned.

Real estate

includes interest In Oliver-Roos Corp of 5289,000; Carson

City

residence, $23,000; house at San Diego, Callf, $15,000. Statement was

obtained from outside sources:

On Mar 18 1969, Oliver was uravailable for an Interview.

Detalls on this business were not

avallable In outside quarters. One

outside source reported

that operations are currently in the formative stages.

Incorporated in Nevada dos to starting this concort, a gaged in lange

OLIVER, born 1920, married. 1965 to starting

this concern,

as an officer In Ollver-Boza

Corporation. Prlor to that, was

associated with the Philco Corp. In Palo AlTo,

Callf. Prior to that,

employed

Volt Tech corp.,

at San Diego.

The directors are residents of the

State

of CVlifornia; antecedent informationis not currently available.

OPERATION

3-19 (2006 6)

incheding officers

3.4

DOUCED IN WHO

¡NIS REPORT MAY

NOT

---

## Page 100

SI0:

65 52

Mor can deed needy Ell:

. D 11.11.$

Mr wille!

OLIVER ROSA CORP

CO 49 APR 28 1971:

LAND DEVELOPMENT

2089 EL RANCHO DR

CARSON CITY. NEV 89701

TEL 702 882-2483

MICHAEL OLIVER, PRES

FETTY SO SEES RS OLIVER, SEC-TREAS

V PRES

DIRECTORS: The Officers

and Robert R Johnson

1965

SUGARY

PAYMENTS

EXPLOYS

RECORD

UNDETERVINEO

INOOMPLETE

PAYMENTS

FINANCE

BANKING

HISTORY

OPERATION

Supplers for this operation were not located during curren

investigation. Oliver's porsonal payiients record is. satisfactory.

On April 28, 1971 officers were absent.

Reporter estimates are:

Real

estate

•$.

290, 000'

REAL ESTATE

TITLE

VALUE

Residence of Olivers

Oliver/wife

$23,000

San Diego

Oliver/Wife

15,000

Hous®further current financial estimates are unavailable. Concerning a

personal statement of Michael Olivor

dated April 1968,

listod at $348,400 and net worth at $318,003, Net worth of Oliver centere

heavily in real

estate.

Operations of the concern appear to be profitable. Full extent of

operations. unknown..Fire_insurance details not

learned. Business is well

-ostablished and affairs appear to be kept In order.

Bank facility not learned:

Incorporated levada on Nov'5 1965, authorized capital. $200,000 with

20,000 shares at s10 per shore.

11 OLIVER born 1920, married. Has associated with the Philco Corp in

Palo Alto, Calif. Prior to that,

employed by Volt Tech. Cors at San

Diego. Is presently also the president of a Vanguard Corp.

B OLIVER born 1925 married. Is bookkeoper of concern.

Antocedents of Rosa Jr. and Johnson lacking.

RELATED CONCEP: Vanguard Corp.

same address, established 1968,

oporates also in. land development.

Extent of Inter-company relations

unlearned.

Operates in the land devalopment field. Business non-seasonal.

Employs 4 including directors. LOCATION: Headquarters are maintained at

Oliver's residence, owned by Mr and Mrs M Oliver.

4-23 (88c 3)

7688

3,4

ODUCED IN WHOL

IN PAR!

1 3d

ANTSORM

fists

MANNEd WHATIVE

---

## Page 101

OUTGONG MESSAGE

SIONAL

1:EO019

roa

20-3

10 500

CMF 0

D

0

D

1691914099

SECRET

WE DRACO MAMEN MAD!

crea

STAFF

2223237

CIRECTOR

CONF: EA/COY INFO:

P/AN EAY EA/UNOW L52/1D

SN/MIL COPS C1/0P2

3

516809

DISSEMBY: 47

TO:

INFO

SAIGON•

TAPPER/CO STRYLIC

REFS:

A.

JIN 1636871

B ..

SAIGON 74819 lIN 1641691

Afile

C.. SAIGON 24609 lIN 1632861

IN 16S4741

E• SAIGON 74890 IN bbbiaLl

1. HAS FILES CONTAIN FOLLOWING ON BENNETT B. BINTLIFF.

1201-8859323, SUBJECT OF REF A REQUEST:

A. EARLY APR 197L DEPAFTMENT OF ARMY VIA INTERAGENCY SOURCE

REGISTER EXPRESSED OPS INTEREST IN SINTLIFF AS A "SOURCE ASSET IN-

VOLVED: IN ARMY OPERATION 1201-DE, ACTIVATED 25 MAR 1966r WHICH WAS

THE CONUS FIELD STATION• A SUBORDINATE ELEMENT OF U.S. ARMY FIELD

ACTIVITIES COMMAND. HOWEVER. ARMY DROPPED ITS INTEREST IN BINTLIFE

WITHOUT PREJUDICE 13 OCT 1972. DOE LISTED AS 17 FEB 1928, AUSTIN.

TEXAS.

@INTLIFF ALSO LISTED AS PRESIDENT, QUANTUM CORP., 444 MADISON,

NEW YORK, AND VICE PRESIDENT, MILITARY ARMAMENT COPP., L'ENFANT PLAZA

N.. WASHINGTON, D.C.

DATE:

OHIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

SECRET

3.3

File in 201-257770

rOcnE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

MUTH

E 2

CL BY:

IMPDET

59271

---

## Page 102

cita

OMF.: 0

SECRET

did ter.

SADE 3

Flice, Thick

I $BODE INSTENCE PEA

DISSEM OY :_

PER —*

CONF:

0 10es

al tram to

INFO: FILE

0. 200 10088.

6is1e

5/6. 809

B. BINTLIFF. AT ONE TIME: WAS

AN OFFICIAL OF SIONICS. CORP."

165S PEACH TREE STREET, N-E-I ATLANTAL CERTA

WHICH LISTS MITCHELL

,910

L. VERBELL III AS VICE PRESIDENT:

EWERCELLY ON WHOM HAS HAS LENGTHY

201 FILE: IS CHARACTERIZED AS AMERICAN ADVENTURER, UNSCRUPULOUS

WHEELER DEALER, AND PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. WERGELL WAS IN-

VOLVED IN GUNRUNNING AND MERCENARY VENTURES IN CUEA, DOMINICAN PE-

PUBLIC, SOUTH VIETNAM AND THAILAUD NO EVING AKHERALD COMNECTIONS. I

BINTLIFF AND WERBELL WERE INVOLVED IN FUNDING MERCENARY EXPEDITION ON

ABACO ISLAND, BAHAMAS. SUERBELL 201 FILE)

C. FBI REPORT MMIO5-21582, 27 JULY 1973, INDICATES BINTLIFF

NOU DUNER OF DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORSIAS

WHOSE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF ADMIMISTRATOR IS PAUL J. ROUTHIER A RE-

TIRED U.S. AIR FORCE LT. COL: AND VERBELL'S SON-IN-LAW.

2. RE EBRW FIRM MENTIONED IN REF C, CHECK OF ATLANTA TELEPHONE

DIRECTORY SHOW'S LISTING FOR BINTLIFF, BAYARD, ROUTHIER, WERBELL AND

CO., ATLANTA, GEORGIA, WHICH LISTS SAME ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER

AS DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL COSIT: ISI ALSO HAS ADIRESS LISTING.

AT 4321 MACLAND-DALLAS, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, WHICH IS RESIDENCE

• DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT: •

EXT:

REPRE HON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I

•ONIBITED

CL BY:

IMPOET

---

## Page 103

O11F

SECRET

0

0

3

FALS

3

cert

CONF:

INFO: FILE

0 :0 mons

SiG 549

DISSEM SY:-

48 149189 10

CLAIMED BY BINTLIFF AND VERBELL.

2012549 10

an all. Cach 29 300177

3. WHAT. LITTLE INFO HAS HAS RE BINTLIFF IS INCONCLUSIVE; HOU

EVÉR: IF JUDGMENTS CAN EE MADE BY COMPANY HE KEEPS, DEALINGS WITH HIM

SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH CAUTION. WHILE ABOVE BACKGROUND INFO ON

BINTLIFT AND WERBELL CANNOT SE PASSED TO LIAISON BECUÂSE OF THEIR U.S.

CITIZENSHIP, STATION CAM PASS STRYLIC PARA ZE TELEPHONE DIRECTORY

INDIATE

INFO ANDYTHAT BINTLIFE HAS UNSAVORY CUNNECTIONS AND MAY FALSELY CLAIM

U.S. GOUT AFFILIATIONS..

4. FILE:

201-205933. EZ, IMPDET-N

wil

daris rid

EA/TOL/T:

EA/ INO/SUN:

/DRAFTI

I/DRAFT/

LSN/ISR:

VORAFT/

DATE:

CAIG:

21, FEB. 74

CH/ HTH

6770/1968

AC/EA

SECR

ET

J/RYU

i)

3,3

= renomination poorrmy

REFRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED

=-0:2-1+909018%

E 2

IMIDET

CL BY: 59271

i.

---

## Page 104

LUSC ASSIFIED

do -

CALY

CON: ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Sensitive

FROM TO CONCESSION DEFISION

uper& Eranch/epuratlona%

Suppor: Sectiod

R005.500, Key Puildias - ext. 2259

Evan. Ames

то:

bou iddlena;

aroi dengearon, room nimber, and

DATE

EXTENSION NO

Case 61168

: CATE

22 January 1974

OFFICERS

COMMENTS :Number doch comment to

+ whom.

C/WH/T/C

Attached report was sent

3.B .000l Hqs.

in by. DCD/Miani.

A cony

has been

passed to WH Station

Perti

in Miami.

Dc/Wnl7

(MIM-00-E-324/00263-74)

2 t 304:

SECRET.

4

3.

%.

Liliman

Juri, 5.1

Eistin

com

Extric)

184-9-11

Cе..

ial, if hage an ill tie

No. But an terre

if mend bo

wearistent

DCD. d000

10.

11.

12.

13

1OdM

J-s?

6104323459

SECRET

3.2

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE GULY

UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 105

PERSONAL AND CONFICENTIAL

Dece: Der 9, 1973

Interin Report - Period of

12/3/73 - 12/9173

RE: Current Bahamian Situation

At Miami, Florida

Resuits of the Inquiry:

The following people were contacted by the writer:

Jay Mallin (December. 3, 1973) Mallin states that to the..

best of his knowledge there are only two groups known to be active in the

Abaço Movement--the group that HerBel (Mitchell Livingston herBel III) Is

associated with and a group being headed up by a Bob Brown.

Brown' is currently in Washington and is about to return to his home

which is in Boulder, Colorado. Mallin Indicated that If anything were about

to occur Brown would certainly be in the Miami area.

Brown is a white Amerfcan and an ex-Special Forces type. Me has

formed a group of ex-Special Forces Specialists that in Mallin's opinion

"could really raise Hell." Brown, according to Mallin, has been working for

Chuck Hali, However, Hall Is alse aligned with Werßel.

3.2

---

## Page 106

Mallin states:": all of the planning sessions

r Brown's group

have been held in the iiving room of Mallin's Coral Gables home.

Brown's group' 1s all white but he has been in contact with some of

the local Blacks in Abaco. The Blacks have had no formal training nor do

they possess the proper weapons for any sizable operation. In order to

obtain weapons and training the Bläcks have made friendly overtures to Brown's

group.

Mallin stated that some of the local Blacks could move on their ou

but he believes that it would be highly unlikely.

*Mallin speculated that U.S. Maffa money may be being spent in the

Bahamas In order to finance the overthrow of Pindling's government to stop

the seizure of the casinos. He did not have any evidence to substantiate the

theory.

In answer so a-direct question from the writer Mallin further commented

-that Paul Bethal is totally out of the Abaco situation. Bethal's only role.

according to Mallin, was the one meeting he arranged for kerßel, Hall, a Michael

Lightbourne (Phonetie) and George Wackenhut. Bethal, Mallin further stated,

trys to give people the impression that he has very high level connections

Including

members of the Mational Securlty Council and that-he prepares papers

and other briefings for the Council. Mallin states that this is not true, that

Bethal in face has no such contacts.

Mallin went on 8o say that herBel would not get involved with anything

that would jeopardize his U.S, government contracts especially the sale of

his stlencer to the Army, In addition, according to Mallin, HerBel Is a CIA

informant and would advise the Agency of his activities. On December 9, 1973,

Mallin was recontacted by thewriter. Chuck Hall travels to Miami a great

deal and contacts Mallin when he does.

Mal! in said his last contact with Mall

was about two months ago.. Hall's supporters are mainly white although

.3.2

---

## Page 107

there are a couple of i

iks. Mall is publishino a mie

raphed newsletter

under the name u. the fbaco Independent Movement.

Mallin indicated that, "the whites cannot do anything in Abaco

There has been a serles of thetts of weapons in the Bahamas and

Mallin believes that Black militants could possibly be involved. Mallin

further believes that there may in fact be a glack militant group operating in

the Abaco area

Mallin stated that, "Herßel's bringing in of Colin Mitchell was just

à lot of nolse." He went on to say Mitchell did not accomplish anything.

David H. Wike, Associate Security Director, University of Miant.

like has not heard of any unusual activity in the Bahamas:

In answer to a

direct question from the writer Wike stated that the only member of the Unt-

versity community known to be travelling to the Bahamas frequently is a

student who is a suspected narcotics dealer. Also, no prominent Bahamian

personalities or members of their families are known to be attending the

Unfversity.

John i. Curtin, Eace county Public Safety Department. Curtin

states that, "the trouble has been building for the las: six to eight months."

He belleves a direct assault would have to be made on Massau Itself in

order to accomplish the destred objective of stopping the seizure of the

casinos. Curtin further stated that the Mafla has been "buying guns like

crazy." On. December 5, 1973, Curtin was recontacied due to the fact that

he had dinner with a prominent Bahamian businessman who is known to be in.

the lumber business. This bustriessman is white but is well liked by the

Blacks in the Bahamas.

His Identity 1s unknown to the writer.

3.2

---

## Page 108

This businessri stared that there is definitel ircreased activity

but that no speuific late for any overt áctión hua teen mentioned.

This bustressman believes that Mafia money is en Important factor and

that. Blacks will be hired to do the actual fighting if there is any fighting.

He views the casina issue as the crucial one. He belleres Blacks who are

opporturistic will seize upon the casino issue to obtain weapons and money

from the Mafia and attempt to seize power.

Dr. Cavid Cartano, Sociöloay Instructor, University.of Miami.

Cartano was contacied due to his being a past menber of the Institute for the

Study of Change, When he first became associated with the Institute he

was introduced by fallin as being a Bahamiàn specialist.

Cartano could not contribute anything pertinent to this inquiry. He

has not renewed his contacts in the Islands in over one year's time. He does

have iNo Bahamian students in one of his classes but neither of them has:

menttoned anything of any significance. He doubts their value as sources.

Gordon 0. Rothwell, Chief of Security, Sheraton Four Arbassadors

Hotel.

Rothwell could not contribute anything pertinent to this inquiry. In

addition no prominent Bahamians are presently or have been recently in the

hotel,

W. Sruce Wrighsson, Chief of Security, Sheraton Royal Biscayne

Hotel. No prominent Bahamians are presently or have been recently in the

hotel.

A confidential local law enforcement source indicated that

an attorney in West Palm Beach is selling automatic weapons. He is free

lancing and has a stall warehouse with two separate alarm systems installed

on the warehouse.

---

## Page 109

SEGRET

CIA INTERNAL USE CHLY

085-94-74

6 J000rg 1974

Chlot, Dimenise Colluelloo Division (Suppurt Ürnch/08s)

mechall 'b, sorboll, all

iso savo reviered subjoct'a 201 sile for additional laforatioa.

Aubjoct my of totereor to sais iguncy in 1959 and ins grantod a

PUt 10 Auguat of Mint your.

Thla was caacolled la October 1959 bea

' toporailos provod lo Do o8 letle value and because 18 van

mapocted so vas undy Agency funds to pronoce bis porsonal ducerost.

lo ans subsoquently attenpred to pans himalf off as an Ageacy

esployee.

No 1a charactoriaod b: the file no unscrupulous, a

ad a promoter of grindiose schenes.. Tie subject.

goa nader 1ng

entention lo 1973 by bots the Burenu of Alcohol.

Subneço and Firearte and the called statue Cuatons servies for

activilios relatiog to pousiblo percenary activition sa Abaco leland.

Do bucas.

3. Il Bhe mbject ahould contact your rifleo again, o

mcrest you secopt statever loformation ho has to ottor but anto re

furthor comitonta concerning agency contact. Abjoct do vell

karn to tha approprtato Dont and is of entrumoly doubtful

character.

3. lo trust tila amorantus will provido you uith useful

infomatios concoming this subjoct. Thank you for bringiog bla

name to our attention.

EPEgas for K3400s/6

ce: forvices Br. (Coatrol)

IP Filos

FILE. HII3019

3. 1

STORET

82 DEDIT CL BY 010830

44-251710

Min piet

office.

dated Jam 11

---

