# 104-10209-10129

## Page 1

104-10209-10129-

SECRET

MIZUCKANDU!! NO?:

SUNJECT

: Ro1.

.?: Cunada, in

oute the Garrison

REFERENCE

: CCОii-о3:

ist 1gú7,

Meet Ta. Currison Investigation

laara; d. perination; Donald P.

Nontor, in :.-dua18.

NEa TON la Con de a deporte have shown the

Sider in rite Fil reports have shown that

VORTON is a conus, and U.S. dr ince dedical records have re-

vealed that he vao dochured in aiiy triù as a result of psychiatric

problems, having tried on livo 0r moic decasions to commit suicide.

NORTON's lies aboli GlA first appeared in tie Vancouver Sun on 5

2. The altached PBI irpori, DN3 77295, 10 April 1967, concerns

another example ol disiniormatior appearing in Vancouver, involving the

Sun, and related to the Garrison casr. A check of Agency files showed

that we have no record of Trevor LAUTENS, Mario GRACIAS, or €

Miss Dorothy WITTY. The reicronoc of the unidentified caller to

GRACL.S may have beon a garble for X'anuel GARCIA Gonzalez, whom

Garrison has named as one vi thie assassins oi Picsident Kennody but

who appears lo have sippeared or to be noa-existent. There are no

3. The Communist press generally and Soviet nows media specifically

have given Garrison's siory enthuskusic coverage and support, because

it is nbviously in their interest to maintain that President Kennedy was

Document Number 1557-1114 - B

for FOlA Reviere on

FEB 1978

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

2

assassin-led resj pro-Ciminal Lee inrory Oswald but rather ag

a resull ol a tal tiny Conspordey involor, ClA.

4. The sartarin; of do such alien dions in or through the V'ancouver

Sur scenis lo place i tiran ou comberor. Do you hate any information

don: the use oft: Si

ananse Call Is tail i l ill it lies isole contaces between empirjoes of

the sun and representatives do Sort tidience? ll no such iniuration

1s al hand, ll could to apprucialed l those icestions more formarded lo

ihe Sialion,

hiron: licadquariors has to rocora oi Trevor LAUTENS,

1ó is conceivable in it sition iles maj aise soid information about him.

Donuvan E. Pratt

DC/CI/R&A

Attachments

Distribution

Orig & l - Adressec

1 - A/DCI (N't. Goodwin)

1 - General Counsel

l - Office oi Sccurity (Attn: Mr. Paul Gaynor)

1 - CI/ Rid Chrono

1 - DP for file (New Vancouver file)

1 - CI/RiA (Miss Smith)

SECRET

---

