# 104-10308-10288

## Page 1

104-10308-10288

TO

DISPATCHI

Chief of Station,

RIZAR

STORTI

CLASSIFICATION

RYBAT SECRET

727,16-13

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INFO.

Chief of Station, Mexico

FROM

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

SUBJECT Operational/TYPIC/ ARKNICK/AMMUG-1

Mexican Ham Radio Operator in Touch with Cuba

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

HHTA-3782, 17 June 1964

AN JUDGE INDEXIN

MICROFILM

For Your Information

The following information was obtained from AN MUG-1 when

questioned concerning his knowledge of songs used in radio communications

in connection with reference:

a. When GElDEAL died "AUGUSTO" personally came to the National

Liberation Building and held a meeting with the officers of that section.

instructed those individuals who maintained communications with organiza-

tions of their respective countries, as well as with some agent, to prepare

a system of communication using some song. lecture, commercial etc..

which could ve transmitted by kadio Havana. Cuba, and could be used to send

easily.understood ciphered nessages.

b. AviMUG-1 believes that Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelg chose

the musical recording of "Las Seis Lindas Cubanas" (Six Beautiful Cubans),

or something similar. He believes this sung was written in the 1920's by

Antonio Maria ROMEU, who leads his own orchestra; however, the song

was made popular by the "ARAGON' orchestra during the "Cha Cha Cha era. "

(Comment: ROMEU is approximately 80 years old and undoubtedly is identical

with the individual referred to as Antonio Maria ROMERO in reference.)

2. "AUGUSTO" or "Agustn" was previously identified by AMMUG-1 ais

Deputy Chief of the DCL and is probably identical with Carlos Sixto CHAIN

Soler, Deputy to Manuel PINEIRO, , Chief of the DGI.

3. It is not known whether there is any connection between the song

titles mentioned in reference as "tres lindas Cubanas" and the AMMUG-1

CONTINUED

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

22 HHTW71721

RIZA CASSICATION SECRET

RYBA'T

SECRET

DATE

15 PECT

HQS FILE NUMBER

200-5-38

Y- File

1 - WH/SA/ESEC

1 - WH/SA/CI Chrono

.1 - FI/D/CSB

1-44/2. Sureggies,

ORIGINATING

WH/SA/CT: Pauline Mirer "Cape

COORDINATING

EXT.

4555

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/ WH/SA/CI

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

+3

C/WH/2

WH/2/Hendrrus cflE

FID / CSB

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WHD

DATE

1199C%

Elal 7

(40)

FORM 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

Anita Potocki in draft

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

DESMOND FIYZUERAND

I DISDATCH

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

RYAATRICA SECRET

RYBA'I SECRET

ATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

22

CHT W71721

lave 2

information reported in paragraph l, b above, However, the similarity

of the titles is obvious, and the tentative identification uf the composei

lends additional credence to the Station's suspicions regarding the unusual

nature of the intercepted conversation. Headquaters would appreciate

receiving any further information which SWHOP-2 may be able to develop

on other conversations between "Alfonso" and his Cuban counterpart,

well as any comments or information which Mexico City may be able to

provide on the personalities mentioned in reference.

Quate tende

Thentick

Distribution:

3 - COs, C

2 - COS, Mexi

127,21-13

Note: There is a strong possibility that the songs referred to in paragraphs

1 b and 3 are the same since the Spanish words Tres (three) and seis (six)

are often confused when heard by non-Spanish speakers.

Fon 59a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

MISANFICATIONO TOT

RYBAT

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

| !?

---

