# 104-10510-10113

## Page 1

104-10510-10113

INFO.

FROM

DISPATCH

Mascos nauseat fee

Chier, wH

-Chlorostation.

PROCESSINO

-X_

ACTIN

B948017° 88 199888143

DO 140CA DE REQUIRES

CHEO CLAIRED

MERRY: RA: 195 DISA

#ESTRACT

scarie

isecorus on Three Briardo Nembers.

TWY at Headquartors tho lattor

vart of July 10G5 obo dincuused the subject of this dieratch wit

is Headjunitors ke aware, JarVE has to on-cola

provenno for are bunofit of thi bricade too malars tho regulio socisi

Thout progian cover podical attontion aud vocational

robabliliation trainlog.

In the sedical seycct of those programs

thoro a threo psychiatric cases sho reprubent she could de germazont

financhal rostongibilltios of GUlt. (lu addition to thoso tro

alloctod Ray of Pies Brigade montre cortime to rocelvo

sonthly financial anort

Undor to sodical brogrin the Dade Count.

Association physicians duonted thol serious pratis to 13:11t

thoso Brigado sombors and tho local beopliala lave in a redicad sute

for thair facilllley.

Howover, the psychlatilat dio not sue fle to

provide thalr sorvicos fice of charga.

Honce, couls for theso Individ

unlo range from $300 to $360 por sooth for piolessional sorvicas, plus

the montbly financial suphort provided ouch:

1100, due to thoir mental

stato, tboy aro sonulo to participato lu the vocational rebabilitation

Pron the reports of the psychiatrists,

there adias to bo uo

indication what no can xpect no end to those troamunis do the neas

In discusslug tho mattor with

that the afansled case Missiles. of those three filtenals

It was akrood

by the paychiatric strii to sou that conclusions alcht lo roachod ani

what solition migbe l foun

(ie alght suntion loiu that at dirAVi's

recost, Boadquartore has alrcady checkod with the Votorana Adainiatia-

tton concoroine toolr lacilitles but no practical solution vas rosciuc

In tbla dustaneo.

18o UAGi 1%, 171 01 14 115uet TEti, LFGS 518G 01

21 Bertenber 10GA, UPGA 1Y, 691

OR 13 OCtObEr LEUS, UPOS 513 01

29 Ortobor 1964 and UM: 19, 159 of is baronier iscs).

MI-NA

/ Continued /

Attachant:

Case Ilatorles, h/w

Distribution:

CS COM

3-vodicalServices, /uteroningin.

¾Th/C, wo/attach

CA. -4443

17 Sept 1033

CASES: → SOMER ANO ARRANTA

i DATE OISPAYCHED

SEPIA MIS

CLASSITICATAJO

SECRET

123

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

+----8-9-

PICAST

3.

also megested the ponsibility of his dis-

cussiog caco of theso luvivial cases with other the attending

paychlatrists or with to satients themselves. Fither of these

mathilitles could be arrance by toe Statioo ith some advance

notice.

Fe would appreciat bles lipt adviaod of progress in thia

mattor.

14. 24-254

10 330

---

