# 104-10121-10377

## Page 1

104-10121-10377

SAOTET

12 February 1964

1413599495451959

SUBJECT:

Debriefing of PRISBECK

6 0r 7 February 196k.

..,".".

Subject reported on various personalities she heard discussed

while she was vlaiting

712 Florias Iro 30

December 1963 to 7 or 8 January 1964.

JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY

PRISEECK received the Impression that the luits have disasaociated

themselves fron the Birchites and have completoly severed their relationship

with the Society and Its purposes. They do not see in ClIMAN, a wealthy

mang who 1s the Blrchite representative in Palm Beach.

WOLIMAN bad entertained

the WEYls frequently when they flat moved to Ilorda.

Durlag the entire length of PRISBECK's visit and as far as she

could judge, the WeYle were completely isolated nocially. They have not been

assimllated into the little tow In wnich they live and their only contact

with the townspeople. la at the club whien they frequent, but seldo.

JOHN MARTINO

Mr. and Mrs. MARTINO visited the WiYla one evering then PRISBECK

was present. John MARTIN and Nathaniel WEYL are co authors of the book

"I was Castro's Prisoner", which was publiahed In November 1903. PRISBECK

has read 1t and says 1t 1s an extremely interesting and well written accout

OF MARTINO 's Imprisorent in Cuba.

PRISBECK, at this point, cautloned the writer to remember that

all she was relating regarding the WElL's remarks vere rumors and/or gossi

and that Source had no means of checking the truth of their statementa.

John MARIINO is the individual who carries the stories to Nathartel

and both John and Nathaniel are deeply entrenched with the Cuban ant1-Castro

forces. MARIINO claims to have a friend in Mland who keeps hin well Informed

on Cuban matters®

Docunset Number 1282-1023

for FOIA Review on FEB 1977

GROUP 1

contessitting

---

## Page 2

122220:

• 2 m

MARKINO and Nathaniel spoke of a trlp that MARLINO had made

to Cuba with an American newnpaper voman, one LAPIN and two CIA agenta.

Nathaniel did not accoupary them. It is PRISBECK's opinion that Isthantel,

Who 1s a covard, just welshed on the trip, but that he did flnance It..

The purpose of the trlp was to contact a Cuban who was serving as lialson

for the four Russian Generals In charge of training and organizing the

Cuban military. The Cuban, who met the group in the water at the edge of:

a beach in Cube, told them that the four Generals wanted to escape and

seek asylum In the United States.

MARTINO is going ahead with a fallow up plan whereby on a given

signal, be and a group vill sell to Cua to pick up the Generals. Nathandel.

15 going on & long lecture tour and will not be able to accompany the pick

up team to Cube.

LEE HARVEY OSWALI

The Cuban Irlenda of the umaned individual In Mand now that

OSWALD contacted the Cuban MI-6 by telephone from a private home in Miami.

They also know the man who furniehed the Information on OSWALD to the FBI.

Fron the reparts given by the Cubans to this unknown Individual,

it seems very definite that RUBY went to Habana to make a shady deal with

e creature by the name of PRASKIN, who works ulth the Cuban Communista and

who 15 also tied up with call girlo In Cuba.

A friend of Nathaniel WrYL, who ran for the presidency of Cube

In 1958, shortly will testify before the Senate Internal Security Sub

Committee.

FRISBECK says this Information my be confidentia - souRns,

of the Committee, contacted Nathantel to get in touch with tine individual.

MARINA OSWALD

Nathaniel claime there is more to larina than meets the eye. He

bat a doubt a det eroi tally bure and rove ta be that

Nathanial knows that after OSWALD was refused a visa to the Sovlet

Union, he made & quick trip Iron Missisaippi to Cuba. OSWALD returned fron

this trip with money and then purchased a car. Tois story of his trip to Cuba

comes frow a girl in Miant with whon he was Living when he was in Hlan.

---

## Page 3

:!"

-3-

JACK RUSI

Nathandel lo corvinced that he was a dope pusher and that he

was lied by the Commntath.

HONIRALI

PRISHECK advised that it 1e an old ginnel wed by the Fusalams

to instruct an American citizen thom they intend to une to go to the Amlean

Consul In the city In Runsla where he la residing and say that he wishes

to retura to tha Unted. States but does not have the required monsy for bie

paaaage.

In this manner, when the Anenteen Consul Furntabes the IndiVidual

his fare; they ostensibly ars giving bin a clean bill of bealth.

Source also advined that no American may vork in Fusala unless be

1s a nember of the CUSA: Isturally, Foreign Service peroonnal and private

bualnessnen on trips er excluded from this restriction. The Party directa

the menher as to his specific destination in fusale.

Source recade. that an

espionage training school was located in Klev and that this schoal vas atill

in existence in this city in 193T, the last date of contact of Source with

Source said it ia very likely thet the CPUSA Instzucted OSIALD to proceed

to Klev for the purpose of attending the espionaga school and that likewise

OSWALD was instructed to aet penniless and request passage hone fron the U. S.

Consul In Kiev

Helene Finan

SECRET

43.222804

come det

---

