# 104-10120-10376

## Page 1

104-10120-10376

i :

grate bee Only

* Do Not Reproduca

SR/10-61-0066

3 February 1961

MESIORANDUY FOB: Chief, Central Cover Group

ATTENTION

:Mr. Thomas Strange

SUBJECT

: Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment

of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

1.

A meeting was held I February 1961, to discuss the

Leasability of conducting field assessment of potential REDSKIN

agent candidates by staff psychologists oluthe Assessment and

Evaluation Stalf, OTR, under suitable

I cover.

Conferees vere lesseurs Thomas Strange and

of centra

Cover Group, John Gittinger of TSD, Dr'3(

Tand Dr. John

Golder of the AsE Staff, OTR,

and Fielder Dudley of SR/10.

The

problen discussed in para 2 below was recognized and tentative

agreement reached on the basic proposal discusaed in para 3

below.

2. Heretofore field assessments have been conducted by.

SR/10 case officers whose capabilities in the rather esoteric

science of psychological assessment are, at best, based fundi

mentally on intuition and subject to variable degrees of objec-

tivity.

Furthermora these case officers reveal their Agency

connection on initial contact supported by credentials in allas.

Thus all agent candidates screened In the field become aware of

Agency interest to exploit legal travel to the USSA for Intelligence

purposes.

These include a considerable percentage who are screened

out during the initial Interview or subsequently as a result of

Headquarters assessment.

3. The Problem:

To screen out unsuitable REDSKIN agent candidates

without revealing Agency interest and to reduce possibilities

of irrational reaction, 1.e., going to the press or writing

letters to the President when later approached by an Agency

representative proposing as intelligence mission.

3I7V

---

## Page 2

SR/10-61-0066 cont.

SUBJECT:

Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment

WURNTO 3

of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

Fadiground Use di

Do Not Reprodues

bo

To restrict revelation of 51 Division safe apart-

ments, staff employees and general tasks germane to REDSKIN

operations only to those candidates most Ilkely to be

accepted. for recrultment.

To cut dow on the necessity of processing Provialonal

Operational Approvals on all leads to be contacted for initial

screening, thereby reducing the heavy workload now imposed

on the Office of Security and the CI Staff by SR/10.

4. Basic Proposal:

To send staff psychologists of the AsE Staff, OIR,

to conduct fiold assessments, when feasible, of potenti

sanskar agent candidates, based on leads furnishod by SR/10°

spotter network, The staff psychologists 1ll rapesent

themanlyes as employees or consultants o81

Na well established propratary of

ISD, EONuclung InterViews on bahalf of anonymeds lout actual

clionte in the fields of education, industry, Commerce and

government (both federal and state).. Other established

propriatary coyer can be provided if and when appropriate.

The proprietary organizations can provide lull "backstopping"

throughout every normal working day. Appropriate documenta-.

ton 1s to be provided in true nane or alias, whichever is

appropriate in any particular case.

b. As a test run, twelve potential REDSKIN agent

candidates in the New England ared have been selected for

initial contact and assessment by Dr. John Golder as s000

as this proposal has been concurred in and approved. Candi-

dates in the ildest are tentativaly scheduled for screening

by Dr.

_during the latter half of February.

Those agent sandidates recommended as likoly prospects

by the staff psychologists will then be contacted by SH71O

cast bricers, when.

ProvisIonal Operattoral Approvals have

been granted, who will ascertain willingness and availability

,? travel, In the Ussa on intelligence missions. when

resporse is alfirmative each candidate will be invited to

Washington for full Headquarters assessment and

possible

recroltment.

2/1V

---

## Page 3

Mylound Use Only

Do Not Reoroduce

SUBJECT:

• 198 %

SR/10-62-0066 cont.

Basic Proposal to Cover Fleld Assessment

of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

5. Earliest consideration of this proposal is requested

so that the time consuming screening and processing of suitable

REDSKIN agents can be accomplished in time for utilization during

tha 1961 travel season.

6. Any questions concerning this proposal should be directed

to Fielder Dudley, SR/10, extension 8297.

= HOWARD. OSBORN

Deputy Chief, SR Division

3

---

