# 104-10194-10007

## Page 1

104-10194-10007

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

He la il

1 October 1962

1. Assessment of Harold R. NOENAYR, C12, $9795.00

2. Task Force W, CA Section, JAWAVE

4.

5.

singleton agents engaged in editorial writing, press placement, and

propaganda leaflet production.

NOEMAYR's cover is that of an employee of

and this cover is

effective in his dealings with

non-operational contacts.

Subjcet's operational contacts are

aware that he represents ODYOKE Interests if not KUBARK'S.

NOEMAYR is a worker with tremendous energy and ability. He works

best in fields with which he has definite interest which presently

encompass printed propaganda, student activity in the psychological

warfare; parantlitary and Information collection flelds, radio

press and

TV exploitation. NOEMAYR puts himself completely into

his job excluding all other interests and on occasion his discourage-

ment(shared by many at the Station over lack of spocific policy

to drive ahead as we would desire) has caused him to display patterns

of social behavior which have presented handling problems.

have been taken care of by his supervisors to the satisfaction of

all concerned and it is expected

that there will be no recurrence

The above is not meant to cast any reflection

the quality or the effectiveness of NOEMAYR's work.

He has assured his supervisors that these problems are a thing of

a. NOEMAYR has shown that he is proficient in spotting, assessing,

recruiting and handling agents. He has had an ample supply of

candidates in the student group which he handles, but has shown

his versatility in training infiltration teams in various fields.

Ilis physical and mental aptitudes for PM and Maritime activities

make him a natural in these flelds.

b.

NOEMAYR's production of CA, CI and especially FI information

has shown improvement during the past year.

While at first

his contacts were not providing him all the above information

is taproving turther.

available to them, the situation has improved considerably and

C.

NOEMAYR has no problems in living his cover and has no apparent

stresses as a result of the dual life imposed upon us.

best at operating independently without strong support.

scems to make a better and stronger singleton operator than a

team player.

"RYBAT

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Page 2

d. The quality and timeliness of his opcrational reporting is

excellent.

His outstanding handling of the language required

for his job -both oral and written alds greatly in his work.

e. There is no question that NOENAYR is of long range interest

to the clandestine services.

After the present assignment I

believe a short course in covert training either at Headquarters

3. It is hoped that if the present Station is moved into the country

of interest NOEMAYR will be able to go along, as his value will be

enhanced even further in that country.

SECRET

7E217

VIBR

---

