# 104-10186-10341

## Page 1

104-10186-10341

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

-Do Not Reproduce

REPORT NO CS CI 316/00695-65

COUNTRY CubA

SUBJECT EUlOgIO PONS (allas "Eloy")

DATE DISTR.

11 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1

CS-311/00115-64

(page 8).

§ July 1966

DATE OF 1961

INFO.

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. Hecember 1964

FIELD REPOST NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APTEAIIAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of & serles containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency.

requested that the addressees take no action on any of

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

firs: checking with this Agency.

Eulogio POVS, alias "Sloy," Is the admiuistrative chier

of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional (Nattonal Liberation

Dopartment - LN) of the Direcelon General

de' Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2.

PONS, a negro, was born abour 1940. He is Plve feet seven

Inches tall and weighs about 145 pounds.

PONS resides on Calle

Sepilma. Esquina 60, Apto 2, Miramar, Habana, Cuba. 1

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

o1 Eulogio POVS.

YOCARD

• en

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

4/0V

SPATE

I ARMY

! NAVY

RED

• CINCLANT CISSO =

AIR

I&N'S

INSA

I oca

TEBI 2

INTORMATION ARI PORT.

INFORMAtION REFORT

LAH SA FOR! 1, WS. 5/R-

MI SA MOBILLNES

-CILIA

2/CT. REd

POSLE

•3! LE.

Lee WASH,

_LX 2290

UFGA 19020(9D*c61)

I SACL S

•SCI-316: 02025-6

WIN NAVE

CORALS I SA 8 (1). WE 1 (2), CI I, RID

1

l: 818596%

Masa 1

OBTOLSTE FRAVIODS KOTIONS.

19 - 5-1

420%

2

1

---

