# 104-10219-10088

## Page 1

104-10219-10088

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC. 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

SECRET

AT - 123

5 November 1964

INFORMATION REPORT

SUBJECT:

Former NSA Employees, Willian H. MARTIN and

BerDOn F. MITCHELL

REFERENCE:

• DR-1827-64 dated 15 October 1964; Subject:

AEDONOR

SOURCE: AEDONOR, a Soviet Intelligence Defoctor

CONTROL: Liaison i18 not to be informed and no other action

1s to be taken on the basis of, this roport with -

out the specific approval of Chief, SR/CI.

Source did not have any connection with the MARTIN

and MITCHELL case.

All that he knows about this case le

what ho heard in KGS gossip and what tuo KGB officore,

Nikolay Semenovich SKVORTSOV and Vladimir Mikhaylovich

of thon wore involved in the bandling of

MAKTIN and MITCHELL, told him.

2.

Source stnted that Willian Haailton MARTIN (201-28338)

and Bernon P. MITCHELL (201-232337) arrived in Moscow in tbe

BuEner of 1960.

Ho heard rumors that they travelled via

Mexico to Cuba, from there they wore sent by ship to the

Source heard toat MARTIN end MITCHELL woro very

knowledgeablo and gave the KGB nuch intorastion niter they

arrived in the USsR.

However, Source

never learned any

details about that they reported.

In tbe bogioning (after the defection) Nikolay

BeDenovich SKYORTSOV, at that time an employee of the

First Department, First Chief Directorate, KGB participated

in meetings witb

He worked with them while employees

of the 8th Chief Directorate (Cipber-Comunications) con-

ducted interrogations.

SKVORTSOV obtained information on

tbe structure of NSA from them.

the summer of 1950 MARTIN

and MITCHELL, WIth SKYORTSOV, vacationed at one of the KGB

dachas in tbe Caucasus, neax the city of Gagra.

tho Caucasus, one of the two (Source does not know which one)

seager

Sales 1.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

104-10219-10088

- BERET

met a Russian girl bo worked as a gardener-agronomist at

the dachs and later married her.

Source later beard

tbat

he did not get along woll with bis new wife.

On their

roturn to Moscow, Gach was given as a reward 100,000

rubles.

After a time, they both went to Leningrad, there

bott sare giron apartments and jobs at differont sclontifie

rosearch institutes as sciontific yorkers, but with rersonal

salary rates (higher wages).

MARTIN and MITCHELL BEG One

another very rarely and are not friends.

4.

The caso officer for MARTIN and MITCHELL after ..

SKYORTSOV was Vladimir Mikhaylovich KOVSELK & KOMAROV,

Chief, U.s. Eubassy Section, Auerican Lopartnent, Second

Colel Directorate.

KOVSHUK was sent to Leningrad in 1962

or 1963 to calm down KITCHELL, uho often makes trouble and

bas exprossed the idea of leaving the UsSR.

5.

Source has no information on the possible recruit-

ment or operational utilization by the KGB of other

of

these son subsequent to their rosettlonent in the Soviet

Union.

He also

knowg nothing about the date

and nanter

of

ostablishment of initial contact between Soviet authorities

and KARTIN and/or MITCHELL, tbe earner in tbich the Soviets

establiahed tbeir bona fides, or the possible service of

thone son as reporting sources in place during their serlyco

witb tho National Security Agency prior to thoir defection.

TENTENT H. BAGLEY.

Chief, SR/CI

Distribution:

Orig &S - Chiet, FI/D/Close Support

1 - C/CI Staff

SR/CI/KGB (74-5-118)

SR/CI/KGB

SECRET

---

