# 104-10110-10430

## Page 1

104-10110-10430

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Manhattan Field Office

26 April 1963

DDS/IOS

ADDS/IOS

ASST/IOS

C/ID

3

C/CS)

C / SRD

C/FB

C/ SAB

C/S

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Investigative Division

SUBJECT

* %

43 877

B SD/3

1.

Reference is made to your telephone call of

25 April 1963.

2. On that date, Agent O'HARE contacted (

06

- 58/1

the housebolder at

N. Yog

to re-brief hia ly accordance with Headquarters instructions.

3.

Jimmediately apologized for not contacting

any one at Mro

regarding an incident which occurred on

either Monday or Tuesday, 22 or 23 April. According to|

on one of those dates the "Philadelphia Inquirer" newspaper

tried to telephonically contact

Tand his wlfe, the "Inquirer" called

06 In the absence of

next-door

neighbor, Mrs.

inquired about the SUBJECT.

00

06

4. Mrs. (

subsequently informed/

- 06.

wipe that the "Inquirer" vanted to know such things as:

A. Who CARSWELL was?

06

B. Has he related to the f

C. When was the, last time CARSWELL was seen

at thel

D.

Did the neighbor

know anything

about CARSWELL, in view of the fact that he

was supposed to have lived at

According tol

Informed the

"Inqutrey" that she nesther knew CARst nor anything about him.

Cadyssed further that when tire. t

Informed Mrs,

ALTS

FILES

---

## Page 2

14-00000

...

..."

06

of the all, she expressed interest in what was going on,

since tie daily papers contained references to CARSWELL'B

release and his

employment by CIA.

06

6.

reported that his wife advised Mrs.

that the SUBJECT was a friend of her husband,

and that he, the SUBJECT, traveled a lot and

merely ined

place to leave some clothes and

occasiorally

receive mail.

7. It is noted that in January 1961, 1tems in the

newspaper concerning CARSWELL's arrest by the Cubans listed

8.

was again requested to Inform Agent

O'HARE of any future contacts with him by anyone concerning

the SUBJECT, and he again agreed to do so.

RANCIS R. FAVORINI

Special Agent In Charge

7/170

---

