# 104-10123-10092

## Page 1

104-10123-10092

Congordo

20 January 1950

1211

Shiel,

: Onder si Sontin, L

1000,

1.

hern is abrached herevith Uxi/56/033 dued denner s,

which 1as pirinusly been handed on us as a recile oi our

Incont inquiries

the contonts oi

this incument lo saliasplanatory and, in essence, reducous oret

contact lode hoLIne to a29n dor iu?

24060 2amhs

Thou to either confirm oi siinda to the

this, an any vont,

is a heor: oi

intomation.

"How" is tow of Michael Barden, C1

=

this noboer has boch made the subject of at ta)üis-

anton ruber ündu

macamaissatch because it is of mar fional

inverest in connecti. will this otidy ind in is remueroed tat

who marlien; posalble action be sakon by lecturers.

le se

nse referenes to1019/56/033 in your renly.

"41

79 C00й17 1455

.....

2l.as?

114/2

2

---

## Page 2

• CAR./56/038

9-1-156

Your HS-755 of 14-2-'51; further to our

CAn/ 52/589 of 11-6-'52.

UBI CT: Investigation into the KriVlishy case

the Firin of GADA;

"HANS" and "IDODOR MALI'

Te are at present reexamining the TRIVIISKY case and are

maxing aguin inquirios about the firm of(tidA)of Insterian men-

tionod in your a.d. letter.

Fenuing the results of those inquiries we herewith pass you the

following infornation additional to that sent to you by our

CA3/52/599 of 11-6-'52, that you may the sooner be able to form

an accurate idea of the case.

In April 1951 your

represensative received from the

British' - accruing to infornation received by us from them - a

report on the statenents the butch subject Henri Christian PIECK,

born 19-4-1095 Den Helder, maue concerning his activities for the

In this report occur

the names of HANS"

alias "HARRY", and

, alias

"Theodor MALY"

e alias Paul HANDI, while two dra-

wings were attached to the report, which PIECK had nade of

"LED IG" - Ignace MiISS, and if "HiS"

In the book "This deception" (published by DUll, SLOAN &

- New York) the authoress leue luScING tells, that in the

first half of the

thirties she was in contact with Ignace REISS,

SORGE, KRIVITSKY, PaUl HARDI, and "FILIK". In the beginning of

the ith Chapter ip. o8) the

authoress Lives a cescription of Bi-

chard bOrGe, saying among other ühings: "His cold blue eyes,

slightly slanted and heavy browed,

had retainei their quality of

It sagas & peculiar coinciuence, that PlaCK in describing "HANS"

looking amused for no reason at all"

says: "always appeared to be smiling"

', and "was slightly Asiatic

in appearance".

though in some further points the two descriptions

do not quite tally, there is a possibility that "HANS" and SORGE

are iuentical, and

that for this reason that wORGE was in the forme

half oi 1953 aviointed correspondent for Japan by the "Algeneen

randelsblaa" of

Amsterdan, and "HAilS" had reportedly been commis-

sioned to 50 to Jupan (though accoruing to PI.Ci he had not obeyed

the instruction). No doubt Hede MASSING made much more detailed

statements to the F.B.I. on her activities for the RIS than those

laid down in her book; she nust also have given descriptions of

the persons with whon she was in contact.

PIECK gave physical descriptions of his eminyers in the ils. It

is recommenduble i examine whether the two descriptions of Faul

Shut taliy, and whether ede. luscing may be able with the help

of fIECK'S

irawing of "TiniS" anu the description to dentily the

istrei, It vould be advisaole also to show to dede 14501ad 2102'5

rivas of Ignace riss to be able to check whether after a lague

12"3

years II.CK had been able to iraw a good likeness of his

Lorner

employers, and has done so with great fidelity.

we should particularly be grateful for the invustication of

intomation.

- Further=

Pi--11.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

- 2.

Further we should greatly appreciate to receive full in-

fornation froin you on the baciground of the original report

on the covor riin of

"and" passed to us by your a.h. letter.

5

---

## Page 4

OSCAR

BERNSTEIN

ARTHUR WALTER

(VALENTINE MARKIN)

WM.JOSEPH

BERMAN

WALTER

CHARAK

J. PETERS

(IGNATZ REISS)

LUDWIG

BILL GRINKE

(WALTER)

FELIX

SILVERSTEIN

PAUL

HARDT

BORIS

(FRED)

HEDE MASSING

LUDWIG

LORE

LEE

ANTON

(FRED BORODIN)

JOSEPH

LEPPIN

NOEL

FIELD

UNKNOWN WOMAN

LAWRENCE

DUGGAN

MARGARET

YOUNG

---

