# 104-10534-10120

## Page 1

104-10534-10120

11820

EYES ONLY

Declassified and Approved for Release:

by the centraNatelligence Agency

Date: 2 due

25 October 1966

NEMORANDM FOR Director, of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT:

Yuriy. I. NOSENKO

1.The attached memorandum describes the techniques

used and

the results obtainec.in the flrstsphaserof the

present interrogation of NOSENKO The most significant

item to emerge from this questioning and related polygraph

testine pertaine to suble poly tap indicate they OSTALD

nover heard of OSWALD until after President Kennedy's

assassination in November 1963, that he was not an active

participant in the case as claimed and that his whole

at their directoas propared by the KGB and given to us

2. Other areas of strong reaction refer to Subject's

suspected contact.with.tho KGB.wh le.in Geneva in 1962 and

1964 and to abidian and the rushkin streot drop ley factor

in the on compromise subject became very upse

at questioning on this subject

and refused; to discusshis

own alleged involvement in the case.

We also touched upon

NOSENKO's parental background,

I periods of imprisonment and

homosexualltya

His reactions here all pointed to cleat-

cut contradictions in the story ho has, told us,

3.

There still remin several areas of interest and

importance to be covered with, the techniques used to date.

Ave expect to complete this line, of questioning by 28 october.

the fact that NOSENKO, knows he is reacting in sensitive

areas and this is worryng tim because he is aptisurenhan

muco we know or how we namedi

NOSENKO crocotions

have given us hope that we may bin chis procedate have begun

to Strike home.

So that keops this

man sitting month after wonth inhis present icuation.

so speculate that one factor may porconfidence that the

"eb wIll got him out.

Relatod torre ay be the thought

that the KGB has CIA. So deeply penetrated that it would be

unhealthy for him to contess,.

Our carrent fine of interro

gation, expanded and used even more forcefully, might

100 come

BARNE!

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

2

break down come of his obstacles to contesston by showing

us in a ditretent and stronger postures Therefore, we hou

plan to go beyond the ranited ans ognal secutor tha

phase of the intorrogation. We plan to continue the inter-

rogation In the hope of getting a confession, written plans

will be submitted when they are more definitely formulated.

David 5. Murphy

Chief. Soviet Biod Division

Attachment:

cci

Chiot. CL

Director o

attacho

ow/attich)

--*g

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

-TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

24 October 1966

This 1e an interim report on progress to date in

the new phane in the interrogation of Mostko, which began

on 18 October 1966, and dovers the firat four days, 18-21

October.

After a break, it will resume on 25 October

Our aim in this phase of the interrogation have

been Miniteda

in view of the posstbility of losing socese

to MOBINKO, we have sought (a) to strengthen our baste report,

now in preparation, by testing his story further clartfying

points of confusion and revearing new contrac etions, and

by polygraph examinations of key areas, and (b) to lead

toward his eventual confession by directly exploiting our

hypotheses about the true background of MOskiko and this

KGB operation, to convey, to kostko the impresston that we

know nore than before, that we possess Irrefutable proof

of his guilt and that he has no prospects for release.

We

refrained from doing thle in eariter phases of the interro-

gation, but. et thia point there seems little to lose.

3.

The first four days have shown that the method is

useful

MOSENKO agaln proved a good reactor on polygraph.

he seemed disturbed by our knowledge and the apecial areas

of Interest we revealed, and we were able to develop im

portent new Information, contradictions and indicationa

concerning the background of thie operation.

Method

renewal of the Interrogation, nor has he asked for anyor Our

questions heve been pointed and detailed md nalther recutre

nor permit long winded enawers, they dor not seck. new infor-

mation but are clearly deaigned to check informatton he pro-

vided eariter, our questions are slanted to build up the

Impression that they are based on date we have learned in-

donendent y the subjec, matter is town up a predeter

destened cor mertmum Impact on LOBErkO, Inter-

rogation sessions are tolloved by polygraph examinations on

the matters covered in the interrogation and/or other toples.

somewhat more time la spent on alrect polygraph examination

then on Interrogation.

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONY

Highlights to Date

5.

OSWALD Cases

The opening session was a polygraph

examination conducted by Nicholas Stolaken, whom NOSENKO

recognized as his earlfer polygraph operator. The question-

ing was devoted entirely to Lee Harvey OSWALD and NOSEKO'&

role In the OSWALD case.

We hit this point before any other

In order (a), to permit clean polygraph testing on this key

matter without having disturbed him with other questions,

and (b), to get over to NOSENKO the gravity of our concern

on this matter of highest state interest.

The operator's

conclusions weres

a.

Subject was not personally or actually 1n-

volved in the OSWALD case from 1959 while OSWALD was

In the Soviet Union.

Subject received special instructions (from

the KGB) about the OSKALD case and what to tell Am

erican authorities about it.

Subject's alleged association with the OSWALD

case both "before and after" the Kennedy assassination

was partly for the purpose of supporting and sub

stantiating subject's cover story "legend".

de

Subject heard of OSWALD (as a case) only after

Kennedy's assassination, however he was not an active

participant in 1963 as he Indicates, but was probably

briefed on the case by a KgB officer.

6•

Geneva Meetinger We devoted several hours of inter-

rogation and polygraph testing to the Geneva perfods, June

1962 and January February 1964, We hit this point second in

order because there are clear signs of important deception

behind It and it offers us special opportunities to suggest

Inside Information which in faot derive fron observation and

deduction.

anong the high potats were the followings

a.. Ravel SHAKHOV.

NOSINKO's story of his. "invests-

gation" of SHAKHOV, a soviet delegation member whom he

said was suspected in 1962 to be an American agent, was

covered again in detall. The new data we obtained tend

to confirm that this 1s a serfous part of NOSENKO's

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

message.

questtons to euggest knowledge thee BRAKHOV. Le a kOe

officer, (not a Kos inyoatiget ton suppest) ong that,

we met know of some of his Important oporettonal

contacte, NOsEko was inconsletent Inha atory

and reacted alentficantly under polygraph exentner

tion, ve aro currently trecing new canda and data:

and are re

xantning the einiéicanee of this netter.

/NOSE KO ransted very

strong 00 cunt en cy to the cuation catch they

or not he had been ment to Geneva by the KOB to con-,

tact CIA, whether he was recelving kOs alreation.

there, and on related guestione, including come re

lated to his ostenstble lavestigation of Pavel SHAKHOY.

* Cas

U,s. Personnel and Instellatione in. Genevel

His verston this timo conflloted wich

hia 1964 version but contained, the seme messago.

• that

the weak and understatted kos in Ceneva hed LIttle.

idea of the identitten of CIA personnel there in

eddieton, NOSENKO reacted to polygraph questions:

related to whether the kab had told him the name of

hig oxA gone stricers. On the other bend, he did not

react to the names of the then cos switzerlend and

ho cent hich melodie down not told them

with certain detatle certier reported, including KIs-

848

V's role to the ARCHITCHAY case to seemed distur

the questioning on kislov and finelly sald he sew

reason to newer eny more off them However, hte

polygrech

¡ reactions ala not suggest chat, he was as:

sensteive

StO KIATOY as to other Individuala and matt

covered in the sane sortes of question. No also ne

with the polystaph.

whether heires withholding anyth

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 6

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

concerning his a leged agent Oleg GRIEVeS.

officiel of the Sovlet delegation his reactions

suggested that he mey genuinely be Ignorant of

ORINEVSKIY's KGB activittes/ handler of a British

(double agent in Genev Jet the time: He hed eeriter

sald that kla deily accens to the KOB Restdency to

Geneva An

1964 was due to his frequent contacts with

Mikhall S. TSYMBALy this time he said that he only

saw TSYNBAL twico In Geneva In 1964 and falled to

mention a Sunday meeting with TSXMBAt which ho had

reported to us at the time it occurred. This leaves

open the whole question of how NOSENKo can explain

he dally decently he the deny cite taels

learned from our prevtous interrogations - la not

normally peritted. this will be covered in further

questioning.

7 Matters Related to the PaK

OVSKY Compromise y

John AbIDialia Ylait. to,the Pushkin Street

Deaddror: NOSINKO reacted with special sensitivity

and intenalty when anted in polygraph test whether

he had been instructed to tell CIA about ARIDIAN'S

Visit to the Pushkin Street deaddrop. In addition,

he refused for the first time to aisouss his own

partlotpation in the tneident, adamantly claiming

that he does not remember when or even whether he

viaited the drop or whether he read reports on

surveillence coverage of It after ABIDIA's viait.

(He had earlter sald he vialted the drop at least

twica, mediately after AbDiA's visiti he des.

artbed the Location end named the kes officora he

went with.) In sharp contraet to hia reluctance

to discuas his parsonal sole ves his unhesttating

and confident response to other aspecte of the:

Pushkin Street drop storyinche relterates that

ABIDIAN was under full time, double-strength sur-

veillance throughout his tour in Moscow and that

AIDIAN was nurveilled to the drop. He now nads.

for the first time, that the kos concluded that the

drop had been inttially round by a U.8. touriat or

delegetion member, and that ABIDIAN was merely check-

ing out its sustability for sone eventual use: - (In

fact, PENKOVSIZY proposed the drop and ABIDIAN went

there only in response to

, the agreed telephonie

signal triggered by persons unknown, not by PENKOV-

SKIY )

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

ONE COS

vas again querted ou

colonel Dulle

Talbugged resteu

rant meeting with

why he hed

through CrevliZe WINNs that the Bovlete were inter

ested aste

Carly 1963 Ln clarLying PINKOY.

Ky allusion ta arbigged con vacation 11: 96

0 sepp", ve belleve that NOSE KO*s 1962 versto

vag a koB Etching expedition. Hovever: NOSIKO

aid not react, to a polygraph question Concerniag

he vas given A trong hame too heir tenor ena

he was given a wrong name for the

officer

nor, whys

AdmIraL VORONESOV, It had been apeculated

that when NOSENkO mentioned in June 1962 meetings.

the name of, his big triend" in the neval oRU.

Mimiral VORONTSOV, he may nave been flaning for

comments from us concerning Marshe, VARENTSOV.

PENKOVSKIXi protector, Querted tnte time about

NAmITEL VORONTSOV, NOSENKO said that he had never

mat him and had, no personal, Of einiler connection,

he seens to have completely forgotten ever having

elelmed a personel teletlonship.

PRETSERIUND ENdU TORSHARE NOSENKO weS asked abo

1 1960-61 In Moscow as an agent egainst the milittery code

clerk JIm STORSBERO, NOSENKO agein ania he elzat mot PRET

FREUND In 1960)

NO tOld NOSENKO that PREISIRLUND tola un.

that he had not net NOsEyKo int11 2962- NOSENKO dented

this. we then added, tortiles concom by telling him funtry.

fully but vch reasonable estimate of the true situatt

that PRIXSFRUIND a1a0 satd that the kos had tola him to a

he first net NOSANKO 1n1 1960, When polygraphed NOSENKO x

acted etrongly and consistently to quest lone on the subje

These reactions and our follow-up may woll bear on the qu

tion. of whether STORSERy an actually regrulted by the

an Issue we have reviewed with the VBT. NOSENKO must be

concerned because he now saya that the STOlSBERG case we

rimarily GRINA, not hig ow. elthough he, NosENco

supervised? 1C.

Thus aisappeare the sole gase that ros

has claimed as hia very own.

and personal beckground, There are many indications. &

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 8

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

earlier that he harrepent timo in prison and that howle

noti in fact a KOB Ofticer, sinflerly, hie storleg of his

early sanool and military servico are inconalstenty and

unbellevable. Me ere trying in tale Interrogetton to

darlEy thia Importent polat. Arong the points covered

so car are the followingt

sertes of teete for example, he was, askedswhether

Minteter of Shipbullding van NOSENKO was, thei father

of Turt venovich NOSS KO and was then baked whether

Mintater nosino was hier ather similarly with

Tamara HOsINKo, his oscenstble nothere sosake ata

NOSENKO*

Mout

tion phrased a furs

sIstently

anked LET

these werent.

icensteive to

questions cont

mate lago:

(there is reasor

to belleva he

marr ted.

He was alac

Olven a serze:

tE

of his given

ne

King for the

Test lette

hole alphebet

as sovere

and the polyga

Show that the

increas

Ingly tense.

ing at the letter & Con perher.

1) on both sur

*e secognise thet testing. of

this sort may

velta remulte.

X certalnly

getBrover. to

even help ua c

pureue this fi

and famil

nane as well.

end e

enorth

moreonment

hea told m

ro ecrußted and hondled

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 9

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES, ONLY

and various years of imprisonment.

He seemed con-

alstently sensitive to correctional labor campa

at the type of prison, and to several possible

causes of imprisonmentr particularly homosexuallty.

desertion and felony, Interestingly enough he was

not sensitive to questions concerning. imprisonment

for self-infllated wounds despite his story that he

had shot himelf in the hand during the war. He

seemed more constatently sensitive to Siberia as

the area of imprisonment but the results were not

as clear as on other aspects of his story. He seems

particularly sensitive to the years 1954-1956, which

Immediately preced the perlod from 1956 onward,

when he began to appear in KCB Operations.

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

