# 104-10229-10086

## Page 1

104-10229-10086

THUM

DISPATCH

ШAaAN8.

S-E-C-H-E-T

maBle 14e 8949 6191,

Chic of Station, INVAVE

XXXAMIN 049

GAIT QUALI NOSE

CAP MILL PRUNIRO

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

CREAMIE:

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL Termination of Benefit Paymenta Under

ProjecE AMBUD

REF: UPCA 18908, 4 Decenber 1964

1. Headquarters regreta that it has not been possible to

reply to reference sooner.

The delay has resulted from the

need to revion carofully the flles on this activity. It is

apparent from previous correspondence that approval to terminate

subsidy payments will have to be obtained fron higher authority

which has not yet been done.

You may rest assured that leadquarters sympathizes

with your point of view in the matter and will endeavor to take

action lf appropriate authority can be obtained. However, this

1s likely to be a slow procese and you are requested to continue

the program until such time as you are advised to the contrary.

The second reference cited in ref dispatch ie apparently

in error. Please forward the correct reference which Headquarters

might have located if the files on this case vere not so sadly

deficient.

CHESTER D. DAINOLD

Distribution:

COS, JMWAVE - Orig. & 2

CHOSS REFERENCE 1O

DISPAICH SYMIRE AND NUMBER

UFCW-4944

S-E-C-R-[-T

TARTS

RAM/CICA

WH/C'MO

RIP/X:

LISASSI

CAH/C/MO

С/н/C/CA

DCWAD/C

C/WHD

DATE

do:

DATE

19-124-115/63

HOSFILE PUMBER

19-124-25/6

OPICREATIRNG

7264

Cops tridg

OFFILEN'SPAME

We I C1n1

John t. HATE,

HELESSLA

Desmon 1P152Gerald

DISPATCH

---

