# 104-10121-10002

## Page 1

104-10121-10002

CLASSIFY WHEN FILLED IN

628 33C1

DATE

• REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

(Submit "in duplicate - one will be returned to reque

ster)

TO

: Chief, Employee Activity Branch, PSD/OS

CONFIDENTIAL

17 January 1972

SUBJECT: Request

for Security Approval of Liaison

continuing basis

one-time basis

EXT.

7355

EXT.

OFFICE

DDP/ CDC

OFFICE

NON-CIA EMPLOYEES

NAME (Last-First-Middle)

MATLACK, Dorothe K.

TITLE OR

SERIAL NO.

RANK

NAME

EXT.

IOFFICE

ORGANIZATION

OACSI (Army)

NAME

EXT.

JOFFICE

BUSINESS ADDRESS

Pentagon

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

DATE OF BIRTH

Code 11 - 79871

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON, COMMENTS, KNOWN BIOGRAPHICAL AND CLEARANCE INFORMATION

Mrs. Dorothe K. Matlack has been designated as the Army/ IDC

Member replacing Col. John A. Smith.

The CDC (CIA Defector Coordinator) chairs the IDC (Interagency

Defector Committee). Liaison will relate to matters dealing with

to defectors perseppes and refugees, and will include personal

contacts and

attendance at meetings as appropriate.

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSED

SECRET

OFFICE/DIVISION/STAFF

DDP / CDC

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

AUTHORIZE

SIGNATURE

ROOM/BLDG/EXT.

Horsky M. Wilson

Rm. 2D-40, Hgs, x7355

Dorothy M.

Wilson

FOR

OFFICE OF SECURITY USE

CLEARANCE

Earsian keplet

Security approval is granted for contact at the

4871 Fuet

security classification level indicated. This approval

does not waive any limitations or other requirements for

authorization in connection with disclosure of class-

DATE GRANTED

ified or controlled information which are contained in

Agency regulations or other directives.

Security approval for liaison contact expires three

years from date of issuance or whenever the representa-

BASIS

tive of the other agency or department ceases to perform

the duties incident to which the security approval was

given, whichever occurs first.

DATE CERTIFIED

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

03

6.:18330

PREVIOUS

20 рк 72

CLASSIFY WHEN GIL

RETURN TO CIA

CONFIDENTIAL

Background Use Only

*Do Not Reproduce

ЧEBLIUDAS ТР ЗМОТОЇ

doungroding and

---

