# 104-10096-10088

## Page 1

104-10096-10088

1.A/006/235-77.

NENORANDUM TOR:

Benson Grayson

SA/ADDO

FRON

SUBJECT:

REFERE!'CE

Gerrge

V. Linder

Deputy Chief, Latin Amerion Vivision

[SIHORIZON-1 Report Mentioning Cuban

Minister-Counsello! Statoment on the

Ascascination of President Kennedy:

a

22950 (IN 416072)

b. New York Daily News Article, dated

2.00 September 1977

02

1.

Reference: MZRUAHO0 intelligence report, mentionl

that the Minister Counsellor (MC) of the cuban Embassy in

Kingston, Jamica addressed the regular monthly meeting or. h

Communist: Party of Cuba

members assigned n

lamaica on 21"

tember 1977.

The MC said, among other things, that Chan ily

such as ENU DIAZ LAN and others

had been involied in the

assassination of President John F. Kenned: The At did n

further elaborate.

2. Latin America Division believes

that the hasier

the MC is statement was, probahly, an article which ameart in

the New York Daily. News on 20 September 197*

This articl

which is attached;

quoted Maritza LORENZ as aying she, londo

BOSCH, Frank STURGIS, ledro MIAZ Lanz, two mmoned Cuban ril

brothers and lee Harrer OSWALD formed an arcarination. goo

which went

c0 Mallas to assistinate President

lennedy.

111118:

10M8

information in Agency lilos to subscentiate that sir;

WARNIN NOTICI

SENSIFIED INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND NETHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

1:2 IMPDET

CI, BY 012"?

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3/PV

---

## Page 2

SIC RIT

3..

There have been various articles in the past alleging

that Ms. LORENZ was a CIA agent.

There is no official file on

Ms. LORENZ, nor is there any information indicating that

was an agent or employee of this Arencv.

to obtain more

information on the MC's statement and source, if possible.

We will prepare memoranda for the FBI, the Inspector General,

and the Office of the Legislative Counsel concerning this case

and include any additional information obtained by our Station

in Kingston.:

The memorandum to the. OLC will be for passage to

the House Select Committee on Assassinations.

George v. Lauder

• Attachment:

a/s.

03

• Distribution:

DDO/C/LA/COG/CIOS {Speedljs (1325) (29 Sept, 77).

Orig &

1 -

1

Addressee

-

LA/COG/Chrono

- C/LAD

-

Originator

- Hold

IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge)

(:

R

---

