# 104-10331-10269

## Page 1

1104-10331-10269

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONLY

C/HRE

13 April 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

FROM:

John Carver

SUBJECT:

Problem of the Oswald 201 Files

John Pereira asked me last Friday to go ahead and order up

the first eight boxes of the Oswald 201 files from IMS. I

called

who told me he'd have to talk it over with

Fred Wickham and get back to me.

mac coo a

Fred Wickham, C/IMS/MPG,

• had

earlier told me that OCA is custodian for these files, and that

he would need a go-ahead from OCA.

I have called

several times a day recently about this, but he's been too busy

to catch.

This morning,

of IMS called to tell me that

DO will require

written memorandum from OCA authorizing any

transfer of any part of the Kennedy Assassination Files. The

addressee for this memo:

Fred Wickham

Chief, IMS/MPG

ID4107 OHB

He also

said that DO would really not relish sending us any

original files.

He reminded me that DO has made copies of the

whole, and he could specifically offer me the redacted copy of

any file, plus a copy of the original, so we could immediately

see what

determined in its own review. (This would

undoubtedly give

us a leg up, letting us pretty well ignore

anything DO hadn't deleted and concentrate on judging

their

deletions in light of the new rules.

It would also hide any

document in the original files DO doesn't want us to see.)

further

invited us to come over to his shop

and

take a look at the files there. (It does appear that DO is

nervous about letting any of this material leave Do control,

for reasons which are not yet clear.)

called me at 0812 today, just before I got

When I called back about 0822, he had already gone into a

meeting, so I'll have to

keep trying.

Finally got him at 0850. Told him about the requirement

for a memo

from OCA. Also about DO's preference for handling

our review in their quarters, with their copies of the

originals.

He told me that this is apparently part of a

"larger problem." He'll have to get in touch with Ken McDonald

and John Pereira about this and will get back to me, probably

tomorrow. Was glad we're gearing,up to start this project.

---

