# 104-10173-10085

## Page 1

104-10173-10085

MICHONILMEO

AHN 4 1862

_DOC. MICRO. SER.

Ri: ANG 1968

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Invustlention

Attentions.

Me. So to Papiah

Deputy Direstor, Plane

SOJECTA Marvin KANTOR

Badginind

RETUSNTO

90)

• Reproduce

Use Only

Lo Roforense 10 made to this offlod a OSCIn3/766, 6lia, deted 9 1usuet 1963,

acnering the above subjense

2o We have spoonly learned that KANTOP han returned to Copertain, Dampk

In a trip to lugoslaria, and that ho plana to depart for hew lori ta caro

Septeber®

He has recartly been in dally sortaot with oe WIllia STaDSOIl,

an Analoan oltinor born abort 1939, who 1a oursently lirag la Temurs vithout

• roodence pardt. We hava bean advised by a usuntly ra table suroe that

ETEDIT has milnentnod a olendestine contaor with a Cuban alitalal in coper

hagen, and that he han sald pro castro artiolen to the 100al Denta prous.

have aleo bean advised that MITOR recently obtalned a absul for $1000, outer 1bly

from his father, to pay for his fare back to the inited States.

No 111l formed to you any additional Information ua my meniro in this

nattere

Is lo mageated, in the mantine, that it may be in order to sacertedn

ss porthlo, whether KaifoRn father has in fast secently asquired the abeve

mentioned me and forwarded 1t to the subject.

lo Our Illon contala so trados Identlelable ust secretio

19-6

bneed ons

T0507

15 Aug 62

C00I-3/766,645

WE/1/CE/HOranquistspo

- 17 August 1961

Distributions

2 - Federal Bureau ci Investigation

1 - CI/OPS

2 - N51

1 - RI (201-279710)

1201-277710

NOPOPE/COSTINUET CORPTIOE

es tori

---

