# 104-10119-10186

## Page 1

104-10119-10186

SECRET

Chief, Security Research Staff

Chief, LEOB/Security Research Stifl

E. Howard HUNT Jr.

#23500

(Manuscript - "Give Us Thie Day?)

26 Januay 1970

withat he hnd gotten

Vin

who wan described by

AL, HAMI

• long time Agency craployee:

CON

Os indices check revealed that In October 1960 Sabject had beon

tarnished an alias in conjunction with his proposed assignment to

JMARC. In thin conjunction Subject had received the name Edward

J. HAMILTON, a backstop address and =

In this alias.

In June 1963 a post office box at the

Woodridge Station in Washington, D. C. wis set up for the Subject

in the name Edward J. HAMILTON. This box was cancelled in June

1965. It may be assumed that since no other Security, Office reference

exists for "Edwrd J. HAML TON that this allas may be the nom de

plume for Subject in this inst

advised that hel

dokitchely the man-

uscript and saw nothing new

exciting other than

General Cabal, former director

etter other the relere to.

veraton thereof

tline or the

gency participation

the Invasion of Cuba Mer

Dalla

returning from a gol game alage

amout of town. General Cat

I, cancelled the second ory

rid

air strtke gainet the Chatro lorcon a Necording to

Gener

Cabell appears as the ville.

reported that the Holt Publishing Company thought

the manuscript tocontroversial to publish and'apparently referred it

to Tom WALLACE oI Bill BUCKLEY. It was thought that perhaps the

Conservative Book Club might be interested.

indicated that he had to return the manuscript

i tomarrow

*? Canary 1970) and that he would call me before ll a.m.

SECRET

Now 1:.

Exclader tram aromatic

downeding aid

---

## Page 2

44.00000

..*

SECRET

to ask is we wished to have a xerox copy or some facsimile of the

manuecript prepared by

and forwarded.

WM:fmt

SECRET

-2=

---

## Page 3

•* $

Re: BAY CE FIGE manuscript.

Jan.

1970.

The manucerist came inio my vonsencion from o friena, Henry

Durkin

publicity

mancer for valler and Company. He originally

has bancred

it rhine vorting dom Aslington House.

The scorn hod been soni to Arlington House by William Buciley.

out was rejested bocrure there wore no means of checking out

faste.

Walker & Co. are precchily considering its publication.

---

