# 104-10180-10210

## Page 1

104-10180-10210]

-Chief of station, AHSAVE

1093+200 +1906E38

SUBJECT

CHoC, seNtern lenisphere Divlsten

Letter From Fletcher M. KNIGIT to fidow of jeter Di GERVENO

ACTICE REQUIRED REFERERCES

Action Required: For Your Information

Forwardod under soparate cover attachment ls a copy of a

Jeo the widow of Peter Di

letter from

GERVENO for your information.

icte

Ellen F.

MARGANY

ittachmen

etter u/s/

DISCOS JUAN M/att u/s/c

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH FYMBC AND RUNGER

31:1-24/1419

DATE

8 lif 1853

UFGS-10515

CLASSIFICATION

HOS FILE NUMBER

SECRET

201-279049

OFFICE

WH/COG/OPS

orrrafa..e =

ORIGINATINO

", ДУРУТ

COORDINATING

OATE

OFFICERS BANE

EXT

1 May 1968

Distribution:

1-RID

1-WH/REG/C

1- WII/COG/OPS

I-Originator

C/H/COG/OPS

RES EASIN

0-6=01513471

CiNA COC

DATE

1401

POS 53 VER PARVOUS BRITION

000. 138

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

5.16=

25 Apx13 1953

•

82-1, 510-12

33157

Dear 153. C

I was deeply moved by your rocent letter

In unich you so oloquently exprosaed appreciation

for help the agency provided you

I an most pratoful to you for sharing miti

=s you thoughts about your husband's 11fo a

Is 1s vory co

oi strengto in jour tina of corror.

I¡' no con do of hola do tino goos os, please

Sincoroly,

U.sli Richard Melas

Richard Holes

PERCOVIL

RHelms/ocd - 15//68

---

## Page 3

26

CLASSIOT TO PILANO.

DESTROY

THOM

BET. TO 99A4CH D

Doe.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/JAIT NOTICIEO

TOTAL COPIER

AFPRODUCTION PRONISITES

ACTION

4

WH8

(A)RID COPY

THFO

FLEUR CT/OA,

WHICOES

SECRET 151839Z CITE

ADVANCE LUPT

Done Onore Cruseo

MpS/BEZ DAP. ADOP

TIME

8292

DIRECT OR

INFO JWAVE

AKLLE CIELBOW

REFS

A.

(NOT SENT JWAVE)

15 NOS 47

73760

Fil.

D/GERUENO

261

B.

‹NOT SENT JIWAVE)

1o REQUEST HQS CONSIDER NOT CANCELLING PROJECT CIELBOW. REF B

POUCHED 14 NOVEMBER CONTAINS COVER RECOMMENDATIONS AND REQUEST THAT HQS

SKEEK A REPLACEMENT FOR DIGERVENO, WHOSE DEATH REPORTED BY BANASIAK ON

RETURN FROM UMWAVE.

20 HUNKELER AND COS MET NIGHT 14 NOVEMBER TO DISCUSS EUSINESS.

DEVELOPMENTS SUESEQUENT TO DRAFTING OF REF B. HUNKELER BELIEVES IF

SPANISH SPEAKING OFFICER WITH BUSINESS EXPERIENCE CAN BE OBTAINED

THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM IN REPLACING DIGERVENO IN PROPOSED COVER

MECHANISM, HUNKELER REPORTS GOOD PROGRESS MADE IN OBTAINING OUTLETS

FOR HIS LINES OF MERCHANDISE. AT COS REQUEST HE WILL PREPARE REPORT

FOR HOS AND STATION ON THIS PROGRESS UPON HIS RETURN UMWAKE.

3. IMWAVE: PEQUEST STATION EXPRESS COS SYMPATHY TO WIFE OF

DIGERVENO, WHOSE DEATH BOIN PERSONAL AND OFFICIAL LOSS.

SECRET

SEC22N

--

---

## Page 4

14-00009

DISPATCH

CLASSOGAKE

NAPOK SECRET

Chief, Western lenisphere Division

1A50.

PROCESSING ACTIOS

MASAID FOR DYING

¡ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN PUDGE INDINAG

_MICROFILE

Chief of Station,

SUSAKT

Cover for Poter J. Di Gerveno

ACTICO REQUIRED - REFERENCES

The cover for Peter d. Di Gerreno was discussed by Soners s.

runkeler, Chester B. Dagnillo and the undersigned

The purpose of the conversations was to determine the most

suitable cover to be used

under the broad umbrella offered by

Hunkeler's various enterprises.

2. The following conclusions were reached:

representarive for some of llunkeler's sales lines.

That Di Gerveno will come L

as the

Specifically he will he the representative for IDENTITY-l,

which is Hunkeler's marketing firm.

he will specifically he

In addition to representing IDENTITY-1, generallye

IDENTITY-l'S

sales agent

IDEXTITY-?;

IDENTITY-3; and IDESTITY and possibly for IDENTITY-S.

IDENTITY-? is the manufacturer of a ride variety of

industrial epoxy products used in

the construction industry and

nei-corrosive.

coatings required by nost petroleum companies

Hunkeler has conducted talks with IDENTITY-o, a

large local holding company engaged in a broad

varicty of business

enterprises.

IDENTITY-6 is interested in marketing the IDENTITY- 2

sales agent for IDENTITY-1, Di Gerveno nould also serve

and would not interfere with

as a technical advisor to IDiNi under these circumstances ni Gerveno

IDENTITY-6's marketing activities.

would enjoy a degree of immediate

sponsorshin hy an important local

firm which should assist in the rapid solidification of his status

ATTACHMENT:

Under Separate Cover

1.

Identity List

DISTRIBUTION:

2-C/WHD w/att u/s/c

CROSS REFERENCE TO

TOISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

1201-224049

13 lovember 1967

MOS FIE NUMBER

CLASSiFICATION

SECRET

---

## Page 5

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

h#y+9e 1803514141

714933

Page "

IDENTITY-; is a line of liquid fertilizer in which

IDENTITYA is also

interested.

since the local fertilizer

industry enjoys protection in the form

import licensing restrictions,

it will take

fron one to tun years of negoriation so determine whether

the will permit the importation of this line.

pi fervend would, in

conjunction with IPENTITYa, represent WESTITil in the negotiations

such permission.

this role would provide a degree of

spongership by toesriti-d and rould chable li dervene to at least mech

significant governent officials.

Khile his operational ohjcctives

do not involve the

he could provide assessment and

other operational data useful against this target.

IDENTITY- produces a line of concrete hlock manufacturing

machinery and accessories.

There little doubt that as capital

equipment, these can he

J-but the number of

prospective buyers is limited.

Such a line would not of itself support

Di Gerveno's cover,

but would be a satisfactor! supplement there

which would be useful in conlaining the fact that le kill not devote

his full time to any one

activity--and to account for at least that

portion of his income which could not be justified en the basis of

his work on behalf of IDENTITY-2 and -3.

IDENTITY-5 produces wrought iron for the utility industry.

IDENTiTY-l is considering accepting

representation for IDENTITY-S on

this line is accented, and bi Cerveno

a hemisphere wide hasisit will also help to enhance his status and to

represents it locally

account for what would

normally he an unusual work pattern.

not wish at this point to eet into a detailed

discussion of financial arrangements.

make sonc

commissions will be

bể pay nic to him.

If under

existing regulations

sales, could keey at least a proportion of these,

would favor it as

an incentive to work at his cover.

If not, we

confidence that

he is a weil enough disciplined professional,

to work

at it in any event.

We would expect that the operational dutics to have planned

for Di Gerveno will take about 20 hours a weck.

This would involve

meetings

with the agents;

preparation of contact reports, dratts of cables, intei reports and

dispatches, plus some time to think about his operations.

We would expect li Gervono to spend the balance of his work

actually performing cover duties.

l'is pattern carnot be neatly.

defined as four hours for cover and four hours daily for operations.

His daily pattern

will vary widely and he must retain flexihility in

when needed

for onerational duties.

Yevertheless,

to reiterate, he will have time for cover work and will he expected to

Unier these circumstances, we desire that he he thoroughly

trained in his cover duties and that he have i thorough knowledge of the

products he is to

If it takes a months to train iire no expect

the 6 months to be used.

As part of the training,

for his PCS

through 1 (or 5), he

and Hunkeler should visit

they can seek office

, and, generally, lay the sourdicri

ni Gorvono's PCS arrival shortly after the

contoratory trin.

Please leep us advised on actini taler, and prooress en this

rroposil.

Subject's deash.

•Just before the release

of this dispatch ie have learned of

is a cause

for real regret--hut

be would like

substitute for Di fervene who will have

not only good knonledce of the

Spanish language, but sufficient commercial background in fit, into

the

•i:

initio, 8

proposed cover.

siétanon. babarob...

53 a

---

## Page 6

4-00009

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

IDENTITY-1

IDESTITY-2

IDENTITY-3

IDESTITY -4

IDENTITY-5

IDENTITY-6

DISTRIBUTION:

Z-CYWHD

530

sacerd

T0

что

---

## Page 7

..+.

Emi.

7a15

25820: 1557

23125=

?,

Sideris

12D COPY

5/202,

5-08828-601107,

SEOBEI

TDo 215al

Get 3і 2.

INTO: MAVE,

137

=Aiven is.

_ARANCA

c/wH

friger

4821°

But a1a

loit

Sul Dution

KG.

fil

REES:

Áo GAVE 9563 (IN 77292)

(IN 78860)33

C. DIR50I03 44104

1. REQUEST DEGERVENO TDY HQS ONE DAY DUTUNG USEK 30 OCT

IO DISCUSS FUTURE ACLOCK OR AND TIMING RICEIVENO 2CS

2. TO ESSISE IN ZUILTE PLINING ANCIUDI ORELIGION, WOULD

INPRZOIATE DIGLIVENO BEING PREPASED DISCUSS MCLOCK'S REACTION TO

PARAGUPY INC 22E C DURING HOS IDY.

3.

312:33 ADVISE BEAND OF MESSAGE

W/COS CONCATS: fReE trecuested & rcuung on Ene stacus Oi

¿he pions and sining ca DiGarValo's proposed

205 transter eo E

ie colease of Dignitata too his Paruas dutie.

• ius nisl

co he can thereditar spend dull sama preparine

Rei s aiso says

DIGERVENO'S ERA INT

Jis sos critical, and

ado to incuro

& vinbin to: corn COVer to

saying to

arrival in

Sonia "aron 6a1"

s-2-0-.-=.

AWINEPiTIAPIN

COPT NO

++-149 14-80 1490-4002-005047 1-207

---

## Page 8

•al sacaron la ciatidiréi

BULE DIO

sonailan)

SECRET

Tauro and tiene casa,

doleranco numiero

CIFE DIRICTOR

4 574.3

#*Para 2 06 Rel 6 ragueres DIGaaTaNO to ask

10.0%)

7

¿óCLOCk-1 il no (xcioci1) could and rould

Se millang to mace ano minias periodie

contact with a foccion dipicuat in Havana

25 ascanS of maincaining Comunicazions

COnISCE WiCA NOTIZA.

C/vir:/COS.

WK/COG/No

C/173/3/V5

20/I/221

C/50/:732

Willian V. Broc

C/WHD

AUTHÉNTICATING

---

## Page 9

1000. OrDe

CLASSIET TO EILE 90.

= HEF TO BULL DO.

orsraor D316.

ACTIGN

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FIASON/UNIT BUTTFILO

10s0=

ION

REPRODUCT

MY PROHIBLE

& RID COPY

ADIANCE COPY

INIT

0...... O...... U.....

C/CE

SE CRET 241842Z CITEL

→8124

DIRECT OR INFO JMWAVE

RYBAT AKLLE PERS

REF

UNAVE 9868(N77995)

HOPED HAVE DIGERVENO ON DUTY BY

ABOUT I JAN 68 SINCE THIS WOULD HAVE PROVIDED

SUFFICIENT TIME FOR COVER TRAINING AND TIMING WOULD

HAVE BEEN GOOD FOR SCHOOL TRANSFERS OF HIS CHILDREN.

2. WHILE WOULD STILL LIKE TO ADHERE TO TIME

TABLE OPIGIVALLY ENVISAGED, BELIEVED IT IMPORTANT

THAT AS MUCH TIME AS NECESSARY BE SPENT ON COVER

TRAINING TO INSURE THAT THIS PHASE OF OP IS

SUCCESSFUL.

3. SUGGEST HQS AND UMWAVE SET A DATE FOR

RELEASE OF DIGERVENO FROM PBRUMEN DUTIES SO THAT

HE CAN THEREAFTER

SPEND FULL TIME PREPARING FOR

ASSIGNMENT. REALIZE IMPORTANCE AMCLOCK !

OP AND IF DIGERVENO PRESENCE CONTINUES BE ESSENTIAL

TO THAT OP, SUGGEST PREPARATIONS BE MADE RELEASE

DIGERVENO FROM PBRUMEN DUTIES ABOUT I JAN; THAT

TRAINING BE CONDUCTED WITH DUE DELISERATION TO

INSURE THOROUGHNESS; AND THAI CONSIDERATION BE

REL 240 ENTESEL

Fit

siA.fil.

-

...

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

-....-..

SECRET

PAGE 2

8124 SECRET

GIVEN HAVING DIGERVENO LEAVE FAMILY UMWAVE

UNTIL END SCHOOL SEMESTER JUNE 68.

4.

IN SUM, DIGERVENO ETA NOT CRITICAL

AND

I PREFERS EVERY EFFORI BE MADE

INSURE VIABLE LONG TERM COVER TO TRYING MEET

AN ARBITRARY DATE FOR HIS ARRIVAL.

SECRET

SECRET

-

---

## Page 11

3 October 1967

MEMORANDU! HORS

SUBJECT

Central Cover Stafilion-Official

3 lion Ufficial lover Sequoit for

Peter J. DI GERVZIO (1)

do tenoral Information

2. Petur J. DI GERVENU (i) 1s a Career Agent in the Mwive

Station and #ill jo tol

Jin the same enployment

Cuarters Allowanco

Post Differential

Equalization /lowance

Education Allowance

2 children at $900 p.s. each

2 childran at

$1,000 2.8. each

Transfer illowance

Temporary Loöging illowancu

$9.00 per doy per ocult up to

00 days

$4.50 per day por chiic under

11 years

uppictentary rost

Allowance

for 5 dovencents lother than vie

and self)

tor up to 50 days at

$5.00

per udy.

$7, 600 p.3.

10%

2,200 p. do

,000 p.a

175

Dl-:94.419

• SEGRET

---

## Page 12

2 SEGMET

- 2-

urniture Monctary illowanc

$4, 500

does not include ampliance:

ippliancos

650

Stove

$125.00

Refrigerator $295.00

$230.00

josts of Air Travel and shipment of

personal effecte

5,865.75

Total air fare from Mil ams

to caracas for 8ix adulta

and one child

$929.50

Total per dien for t

day at $25.00 a pioce

for six acults and one

child

81.25

Passport charyes (pictures.

fecs, etc) for sevch persons35.00

Taxis to and from

airports

20.00

. Total fle, shipping and

storage of 12,000 lbs at-

$40.00 per CiT - estimate

includes excess baygago

and air freight

1, 800.00

Reimbursenent for l

]Income Tax computed

at 6% oi reported salary, estimated at

$18,369

1.102 p.a.

Reimbursement for operational use

I NERVEO private vehiclo.

600 p.a.

DI JERVENTO and family are considerce to be mentally and

physically fit for overseas duty.

Currunt and previous cover utilized inj Subject are as

follows:

(a) Subject was louitinatoly employed in llavana, cuba.

as the manager of a combinod Havana District Sales Office which

handled the individual businesses of soveral US fima during the

SECRET i

---

## Page 13

SECRET

+ 300

verlod 1954 through uly 1951.

ills incone duriny that period of

1me was approximately $10,000 per year.

(5)

subject has been under non-oificial cover froli

July 19ul to the present any consultant

This cover li bacistopped from the principal

office l

Subject 19 avallable to assume the proposed cover

Immediately

It la proposed that subject arrive l

around the

beginning of January 1968.

The project cryptony under which subject will be carried

1I CIELBOil.

B. Blauraphic Information

1.. Date and place of births 27 January 1928 in Havana, vube,

Sexs Male.

Racos caucasian - nilaly dark skin.

Religion:

R man Catholic

cItizenship: US (naturalized)"

Previous citizenships duvan (by birth)

Marital Status: married®

Children:

three

song and one daughter ranging in ages fron

10 to

15 years old

Pasent reaidence codresa:

Number and relationship of dapercents to accompany Subject

on his foreign assigament;

ndie

Fuur children - ranging in age from 10 to 16

siother-in-law

All of above dependents live with Subject at the address listed as

subjoct's prescnt residence.

& SEGRET

---

## Page 14

LEE SECRET

- 4 =

3. Education:

Tulane Univeristy (1945-1948) • Subject obtained

a bo in isychology

Tulane University (1513-1954) - Subject obtained

a Mi. in lunanitles and lacks one year to comulate

jubject vas a lejitimate businossnan in Havana, vuba, from

195* through

wuly 1961. He was the gencral manager oi a Ravana

District'isales Office which representoú saveral US firms lippleton

Electric Con d'entury Electric, Hubbarc uninum Products, Oxonita

company in cuba.

In the ensuing perioi fron July 1961 to the

subject has been ensloyed by a cl:-createi conorcial

organization (JoEil), curing whicl time 1t night be presured

that subject acquired additional comerical expertise. Jubject's

salary has ranged iron $10,000 (1n cuba) to $13,769 (currently)

5. Outside interests which night provice basis for cover

development: None.

Ó. Objoctive personality evaluation: subject is very friendly.

outgoing, neat in

appearance ard sully bi-linual.

iits fitnoss

reports

reflect his

congeniallty in accition to his conscientious

behavior und attituac.

subject is consiuered to be financially solvent and to be

without ary unnatural douts or outstanding loans.

Previous Loreign residences sunject livod in the us for

nine yoars while attenciny Tulane Universiti.

The renaincer of

jubject'& life has been

spent in Havana,

cuba, or ilant, florida.

Subject has had

several fairly extensive IDYs to severai Latin

merican countries;

jubject is ully li-lingual (Spanish and English). He

has limite

capability in

Portuguese, Italian and French.

loing assigned to a suanish pesking country.

c. Recurity constècrations

Subject has been employou by cia since June 1950.

subject

was granted a type i clearance on 5 septeaber 19ul

Issuance of a CS% on 27 January 1965 (c5: * 21÷ 122) to jemit

jubject'a conversion

fron contract Emuloyee to career iment status.

2.

subjoct is fully witting of cin intrrest.

---

## Page 15

StOneT

• 3

3.

subject's Tune : clearance pomutted him to work in the

NiVE Station curing nuch oi his tour in lilami.

He has been

Inside Headquarters bullüing on at least four occasions.

subject was the trincipal igent for a Cuban stay-behind

operation during the period

June 1960 through July 1961.

occasions, he vas hele

and questioned for short periods of time by

Cuban ?.

ile there 1a no evidence that cuban 15 has positively

Identifind Subject as a lin asset, it can bu prosumcá that Cuban Is

is alort to the strong possibility of Subject's Cii connection.

subject's wile is fully witting of subject's true employment.

Subject may have been exposed to other than cia staff enployees by

one or the members

when he was operationally active in libe or subsequently.

while in Miar.

employment.

(frum July 1951 to

There are no relatives or clote friends of subject or his

wife in Venezuela.

5.

No connoction with any intelligence orjanization other

than CIA.

6. No aciverso ¡actors in subjeit's personal iife.

7, jubject has never used any igency reterence.

8. & 9.

expected to

continue in

arca.

It 15 expected that subject's tour

four years.

]will be at leas

10. Paula Ross RODRIWUE: - wife. Resides with subject.

Subject has both contract life Insurance and contract

hospitalization under the auspicos of this gency®

to members of subject's family have current clearaices

ubject's wife is the only nonber oi his family that 18 wittin

of his true employment.

i SEGRET

---

## Page 16

1d-0n0d

SEGNET -

D. Uperatioual infomation •

1o Be 0f Operation.

2o Location.

subject should be able to travel freely throughout

addition to being able to occasionally make TDy

trips to other Latin imerican countries and Europe.

4. Special croups agent shoula be able to contact.

There are special groups Subject should be able to contact.

beyond those he could

normally approach, given his background anc

education.

Subject should be able to attribute an income of at loast

$18,000 per year.

Subject should be able to devote at least 30 hours a week

to operational cuties.

%. Communications channels sastroc.

No special cormunications channols will le necessary.

8. Cover Sussestiona

lover arrangements have been initiated with HUNKiER in

Miami• HUNKELSR has a consultant and

sales organization operating

in batin America and is considered by „il Division as being able to

provide excellent cover for subject.

nillian: %. broe

Chief

restern Hemisphere Division

LE SEGHET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

NONOFFICIAL

COVER REQUEST

FOR INDIVIDUAL

HEADQUARTERS EDITION

FOR 2311

SECRET

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST

FOR INDIVIDUAL

• Insure the most eflective application of nonofficial cover, it

sential that cover requirements be brought to the atlention of Cent

Cover Staff in the earliest stages of planning.

As soon as it has been

etermined that an agent is to be placed under nonomicial cover, eithe

in the

United States or abroad, a meeting with a representative o

Central Cover Staff should be arranged. (When outside recruitment of

an agent for a nonofficial cover assignment is contemplated, Central

Cover Staff facilities are avallable to facilitate "clean" recruitments and

protect the agent against identification with CIA during the integration

we result in the elimination of unsuitable cover possibilities.

Staff, Nonomicial Cover Branch telephone extensions are 5144 and 5122.

Following the initial discussion, and based upon it, a cover require

ment memorandum signed by or for the operating division chief should

be submitted to Central Cover Staff. It Is specifically requested that a

headquarters case officer other than the agent himself be designated

to deal with Central Cover Staff in the development of the desired non-

official cover, including the preparation of the cover requirement mem-

orandum, in order that this development may proced on a completely

objective basis.

This memorandum may be keyed to the paragraphs

numbered. below to obviate repetition.

No commitments will be made with any cover organization until

Central Cover Staff has been advised by memorandum that the proposed

cover and the agent's participation in the operation have been concurred

in by the field and/or the Chief of Operations, DD/P. Such memoranda

are to be signed by or for the division chief.

Each agent proposed for

a nonoffcial cover assignment is subject also to personal intervicw by a

designee of Chief, Central Cover Staff, for assessment as to his sult-

ability for the proposed cover.

This interview, when required, will be

requested by Central Cover Staft.

At the conclusion of the discussions with the operating divisions and

discussions between representatives of Central Cover Staff and the cover

organization, two formal documents ordinarily will be prepared:

a. The first, a "Letter of Cover Instructions" addressed to the agent

will be prepared by the Central Cover Staft. It will outline exactly

the cover story to be employed and will specily what is expected

of the agent to maintain a proper relationship to the cover fa-

cility.

Each item in the instructions will be discussed with the

agent and/or his case officer by the Central Cover Staff case officer,

after which the agent will be required to acknow'edge the receipt

of these instructions.

The branch chief concerned will also be

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00009

SECRET

asked to indicate that nothing in the "Letter of Cover Instructions"

conflicts with instruct ons given the agent by the operating di-

vision.

,. When the cover facility is a legitimate organization rather than '

an Agency-controlled mechanism, a "Letter of Understanding"

with the cover organization is prepared by Contract Personnel Di-

vision. It Is the "contract" with the cover organization.

The "Letter of Understanding" and the "Letter of Cover Instructions"

I be submitted to the operating division for comments and concur-

co before presentation, respectively, to the cover organization and

the agent for signature. Sanitized copies, in duplicate, of both the

lter of Cover Instructions" and the "Letter of Understanding" will

furnished the operating division one copy of cach for headquarters

mion and one for transmittal to and retention by the field station

its guidance and reference by the agent as required.

NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST

SEVERAL INFORMATION

1. Iseudonym of agent to be covered and any pseudonyms, cryp-

tonymns or aliases used previously. Has Central Cover Staff been

requested to derelop nonofficial cover for this agent before? If

30, under what pseudonym, cryptonym or alias?

: Current employment status and contemplated Agency status

undur caner if ditterent from current status, l.e., Staff Employee,

Staff Agent, Contract Employee, Contract Agent, Career Agent,

ett.; Agency salary range, kinds and amounts of allowances to

which agent will be entitled during his assignment under non-

vilcial cover.

is the agent now considered by the Agency's Medical, Psychiatric,

Assassinent and Evaluations Stafts to be fit for overseas dutt?

Current and. or previous nonofficial or oficial covers employed by

the agent, including foreign and domestic, formal or informal

cover stories, with a statement as to the extent of backstopping

Unbackstopped, informal cover stories used for

dumestic disguise of ClA stall employment are specifically re-

Date of availability of agent to assume the cover.

Traw. die of departure he be depren to a new access

Irequently requires several weeks for the necessary clearances of

the proposed cover facility's committing officials Additional

wecks of negotiation, company training, ete., often are necessary.

SECRET

SECRET

7. Project cryptonym under which agent will be carried. ll there

Is no approved project in the conventional form, the basle author-

ty should be cited and a stat mient given that funds are availabl

o support any financial commitments made to the cover organ

zation.

B. BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

1. Date and place of birth, sex, race, religion, current citizenship

status, previous citizenship(s), marital status, chlidren, piesent

and last previous residence addresses.

2. Number and relationship of adult dependents to accumpany

agent on his foreign assignmont, together with current restdence

i on his tortio

and a statement as to availability of biographical information on

each. Number and relationship of minors who are to accompany.

3. Education (college transcripts may be required where academic

cover desired).

4. Business or professional experience Including salary ranges in

previous positions.

5. Outside interests, hobbies. etc., which might provide basis for

cover development.

opta, hobbies etc, which might provide basis for

6. Objective personality evaluation.

8. Agent's personal financial status in general terms, including ap

roximate amount of loans and debts outstandina

8. Previous foreign residence-generally discussed.

9. Language abilities with particular reference to language(s) In-

digenous to the area of assignment. It English is not agent's

native language, state the degree of proficiency in English.

C. SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

How long has the agent been employed by CIA? Security s

oval number, date issued, and purpose for which granted." A

derogatory information developed by investigation.

2. Is agent to know specifically of CIA interest, only of U.S. Govern-

ment interest, or neither?

How frequently has agent entered CIA headquarters Installatlo

field installations substantially identifed as CL

4. Cite any identification of agent's CIA connection to other than

CIA staff personnel. Include relatives, friends, neighbors. Cile

any known or suspected foreign intelligence interest in agent

at any time and any known Incidents or circumstances which

may have tended to compromise his cover security. Does the

cret pure have rei tea of elec tient it or near the

SECRET

---

## Page 20

5. Has agent any past connection with or has his intelligence status

been identified to OSS, SSU, CIG, G-2, A-2, CIC, ONI or any for-

cign intelligence, police or security service? Is any such con-

nection known outside CIA and the service involved?

3. Any other factors, such as family problems, which might have

saring upon the personal security of the agent or his ability i

live his cover.

8. Has agent ever given CIA, Miss Violet Pitts, or '2430 E Street"

or other potentially compromising reference for credit or other

purposes? It so, where and approximately when? Cite any other

not already cited above.

Include specifically use of

provided cover units or facilites.

• Alter the currently proposed tour, do present plans for this agen

ontemplate (a) continuation in a nonofficial cover status: (b)

transfer to an official cover status; (c) assignment to headquas-

lers or (d) termination? It must be recognized that protection

of certain nonomicial cover facilities precludes early assignment

to a more compromising cover status after completion of the non-

olicial cover tour.

9. If this request is

lor interim cover, what are foreseeable plans

for eventual, more permanent cover?

10. Identity, relationship, degree of knowledgeability, and address of

designated to Chief, Benefts and Counseling

oice ul Peronnel or contact in the event or an emergenty ach.

ation involving agent, as prescribed by HR 20-46.

11

Government or Agency-amliated beneficial plans in which agent

participates (WAEPA, GEHA, Federal Employees Group Life In-

surance, Association Bencht Plan, etc.) and other personal in-

surance held, together with identity and location of beneficiaries

and whether or not each beneficiary is witting of agent's CIA

aMiliation.

12. Agent's Selective Serrice, military or naval reserve status, Includ-

ing current unit attachment.

13. Clearance status o: agent, spouse, and other adult dependents

who will accompany agent overseas.

Are spouse and adult de

pendents knowledgeable of agent's CIA connection? His Govern-

ment connection? Has agent been polygraphed?

• OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

1. Type of Operation

The general type of operation involved, d.e., CA, FI, COMMO,

Logistics, etc., and the expected duration of assignment. The

sensitivity of the operation should be indicated-é.g., observation,

spotting and reporting only; case officer for established agents;

SECRET

. )

SECRET

recruitment of new agents; penetration operation-and & state-

ment should be included as to the identities of any individuals

and organizations, in the U.S. or abroad (other than CIA stil

personnel, cover facility omclals, and those listed under 2(C)

(4) above), who are or will be made witting of agent's CIA o

J.S. Government amliation while he is under this nonoficial cover

2. Location

The city in which the agent is to reside should be specticaily

stated and alternates in order of preference should be klver

3. Indicate localities outside of agent's permanent. ication witch

agent should be free to visit and state the frequency and duration

Also it is important to know whether or not the

time and intervals of such mectings will be

determined by the

agent or dictated by influences or circumstances bejond his con.

4. Special groups agent should be able to contact

It is sometimes possible to relate a cover to a particular group

in the operational area, l.c., social, cultural, political, commercla:

If this is considered an important factor in the cover, this aspec

of the requirement should be explained in detall

5. Approximate annual income which agent must be able l at

tribute to the cover organization. Sound cover, of course, re

quires overt (cover) explanation for a reasonable approximation

of the sum actually to be available to the agent through Agency

However, a professional intellence

agent's qualifications frequently cannot plausibly command ar

ostensible income from commercial or other lay sourees ricart

Firm understanding should b

Ale of spot on or is get puneration may be purrs,

for income.

8. Estimo to e to opera tonate ot hours per weck which the

7. Communicatione shannels desired

In rare Instances it may be possible to set up SW means of com

nunication through the cover facility. It this is desired, th

shotic te indicat frequency of such commurication facilties

8. Cover Suggestions

Any specific cover suggestion or preferences expressed elthe

by the agent or the operating division emphasizing the agent

special suitability to the cover suggested and or the speckai ad-

vantages of the cover vis-a-vis the target

SECRET

+ +06-1 21904112 049700779+

---

## Page 21

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 22

CLASSICITO FILE NO.

*-RIS TO FILE NO

FILE 9I0O

RET. TO

DESiNOr I 5IG.

DISSEM 8Y.

ACTION

28 PER

JARAME O

- CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

TO.

• SECRET

(whor Friod ie)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

NOTIFICATION TO

ADV. COPY

DISSUEDL ISLOTTED 8Y:

AT:

INFO.

ROUTING AND/OR

ASTRIALS - SCEN BY

TRID COPY

EGREI

DIRECTOR, UMWAVE

KAPOK

REFS!

282200Z CITE

c/CSes, c/u O/OPSER

77683

28 Aus 67 N 40593

A. DIRECTOR 29984

B.

UMWAVE 8954 GN 381413)

1o LABANOW MET WITH DIGERVENO AT AIRPORT 24 AUGUST AND

DISCUSSED OP. HUNKELER PRESENCE AT AIRPORT TO SEE OFF BUSINESS

ASSOCIATES FACILITATED PRELIMINARY THREE SIDED CONVERSATION RE

COVER POSSIBILITIES AND TRAINING. HUNKELER AND DIGERVENO WHO

ALREADY ACQUAINTED, APPEAR HAVE GOOD RAPPORT.

2. DISCUSSION CENTERED AROUND TRAINING, BUT IT CLEAR THAT

HUNKELE: FIRM OFFERS WIDE SCOPE COVER OFPORTUNITIES EITHER AS

SALES REP, IN MARKET ANALYSIS, OR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SURVEYS.

IN CONNECTION WITH LATTER, HUNKELER FIRM PLANS INITIATE

STUDY IN COSTA RICA DURING NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS WHICH MAY OFFER

OPPORTUNITY FOR ON THE JOB TRAINING FOR DIGERVENO IF LATTER

SPECIALTY DECIDED UPON.

3a FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE SUGGEST THAT FOLL ACTION BE TAKEN

CONCURRENTLY WITH PREPARATION PROJECT IN ORDER TRY GET DIGERVENO

IN PLACE BY ! JAN 68:

HOS REP TRAVEL IMWAVE CONFER WITH HUNXELER AND EEUO.G7

201-774649

4

SECRET

---

## Page 23

14-00009

INGER. OVES 21 NO

CLASSIFY TO TILE TO

X-REF TO FILE NO -

FILE RIO CJ MET. PO.

DESTROY 1] SIG.

DISSEN 8Y

ACTION

\ВАДИСИ

RiD COPY

• CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COMES

SECRET

(When Filled la)

REBSSJUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIDITED

NOTIFICATION TO

AUr. CUPY

LiSSUEDESLOTTED BY:

AT:

¡INFO.

FILE

ROUTING ANDIOR

ISITIALS - SEEN BY

2

3

110

PAGE TVOI

7683 SECRET

DIGERVENO TO PINPOINT COVER ASSIGNMENT AND PREPARE COVER

TRAINING PROGRAM.

B. THAT DIGERVENO BE MADE AVAILABLE AS SOON AS

POSSIBLE TO UNDERTAKE FULL TIME TRAINING FOR COVER ROLE.

C. IF POSSIBLE, DURING TRAINING PERIOD, SUGGEST

DIGERVENO IDY

FOR ABOUT ONE WEEK TO REVIEW SITUATION

AND DISCUSS OP WITH STATION.

SECRET

BT

ПРОДВЕТСКК

---

## Page 24

14-00000

. SECRET

18 August 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3 '

FROM

: Chief, WH/3/L

SUBJECT

: Assignment of

the assignment of

§signment to make it clear that I do not oppose i

do have some reservations on what he is going to be

are basically CS/CI projects I think this is a great

The amount of research in these projects

necessarily requires a great amount of files research

in his cover situation will not be

able to do. This will entail a greater amount of work

for the inside case officer, defeating the purpose for

Jwas originally considered; freeing the

inside case officer for developmental work.

The intoduction of

into the CIHAVOC

Case will also intoduce one more step

through which most

of the vital information that CIHAVOC-2 produces must

to the case officer.

a once his infan does though clavoc

Wich the addition of

one more time consuming step will be added.

I am also of the firm opinion that different

officers should be

used for these operations

are penetrations of the same party and at

In addition, both are

extremely sensitive and the compromise of one could

possibly lead to the compromise of the other.

was assigned to for the

handling of a sensitive case which exposure would be

embarrassing to the United States,

such as a high level

political penetration or a sensitive soviet, satellite

then it would be tell

justified.

towever, I feel

assignment as an outside case officer for

activities is not

since they

could be better

handled and

serviced from

the inside.

I SECHET -

---

## Page 25

14-00000

Aa SECRET

Page 2

18 August 1967

An amount

C/WH/3

« SECRET -

---

## Page 26

14-00000

NOIE SUMS

R-ITAº PO FRLE BO

FILE ROS

RE? TO.

GESTROr M 5x8.

DISSEN BY.

ACTION

"CLASSIFIFO MESSSGE

TOTaL, 6091

SECRET

(Where filled In)

REPE"TUCTInA Ne THIe CO": PiO"DiTS

NOTIFICATION TO D.

: ADV COPY

EISSUESCUSLOTIED BY:

AT:

ROUTING ANDIOR

INITIALS - SIEN BY

10

XRID COPY

SE CRE I ZAITOOZ CITE UMWAVE 8954 (STEADMAN ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO

D YVOUR

REF: DIRECTOR 29984

La DIGERVENO ACCEPTS DEEP COVER ASSIGNMENT

ON

BASIS ALLOÑANCES AND BENEFITS DISCUSSED CURING HIS RECENTADY

HQS.

2. DIGERVENO WILL MEET LABANOW PER REF.

SECRET

fier

24 Auc 67 N 38 443

BT

CIELBOW

24 night

301-22404.9

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SO P 10 MILE HO

FILE RID D

DESTROY I sic.

DISSEN

ACTION

- so.

eluнь,

> IRIO COPY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIE

SECRET

22.

INITIALS - SEEM BY 8. F

TIC

REPROCUCTIGN OF THES

¿NOTIFICATION TO

: ADV. COPY

TISSUED SLOTTED TY:

INFO.

rue: us, elwitloq 5, c/ c053, telespse

DlOP, OlSECURI

SECRET 17ZZI8Z CITE JMWAVE 8860

DIRECTOR INFO

in life

KAPOK DYVOUR

• 1 RE DIGERVENO FORTHCOMING ASSIGNMENTI

UNDER

DEEP COMMERCIAL COVER, DIGERVENO SUGGEST FOP HOS AND

J CONSIDERATION THAT HIS WIFE BE EMPLOYED AS SECRETARY

FOR BUSINESS. WIFE IS EXPERIENCED COMMERCIAL SECHETARY WITH

KiNOWLEDGE OF TYPING, SHORTHAND, FILING AND GENERAL OFFICE

PROCEDURES® ALSO SPEAKS FLUENT SPANISH. WIFE HAS NEVER

WORKED FOR WOFACT OR LNHARP.

2. BELIEVE USE OF DIGERVENO WIFE AS COVER COMPANY SEC=

RETARY RATHER THAN. LOCAL. EMPLOYEE. AS DISCUSSED IN HAS, WOULD

GREATLY ENHANCE SECURITY OF OPERATION; AND WOULD OSVIOUSLY

FACILITATE DIGERVENO'S WORK IN OFFICE ON SENSITIVE REPORTS.

3. IF ADDRESSEES CONCUR, REQUEST PROPER TYPE CLEARANCE

FOR WIFE (IDEN).

4. WHILE ABOVE ENVISAGES USE OF WIFE PRIMARILY IN COVER

CAPACITY, L

MAY POSSIBLY SEE

SOME ADVANTAGE HAVING HER

ALSO FAMILIARIZE HERSELF WITH WOFACI PROCEDDURES CREPORIS

WRITING, DISPAICH FORMAT SIC) PRION DEPARTURE FROM JMWAVE.

,17 Анс 67 11 34 037

SECRET

---

## Page 28

1h0?4. Il rts Dro

1. LASSIFE PO PILIBO

X-REF TO FILI 40

FILE RIO E MEr. TO.

DESTROr [i 5IG

DISSEN BY S

ACTION

JORANE

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

(Whon Fiil

REPRODUCTION

NOTIFICATIÓN TO

Pis Tone ndyr

ROUTING AND/OR

INITIALS - SEEN OY

_PER

StuHs

XXIRO COPY

TEISSUEDEE SICE

INF O

VILE. VR. clwitlcor,5, clecsz clesps

DloP, o/SECUR +

SEC

DIRECTOR INEO

•E T 172218Z CIIE JMWAVE 8861

KAPOK DYVOUR

17 Aus 67 N 3 4 022

REF:

JMWAVE

8868 (1N 34837)

IDEN IS

AKA PAULA, DPOS

2 JAN 23 BOGALUSA, LOUISIANA, UOSO CIIIZEN.

SECRET

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 29

ta-iotded

De/. .$/3_149

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/W4/3 -

Jeto desciess wokzn c/wr/3

setieres. Hie kums hord eve

fust about this but the ops.

cruridecationa have uat haza

will ttright out iis say ope

siinn.

Sur

(DATE)

FORM MD. 101

1 AUG 38

WHICH

EEPLACEAY OE USED!

PORM 10. 101

+87)

---

## Page 30

.....

SEGRET

11 AUG IOR?

-.-..

21: ALLOS.065 -

PNG: 05-13(2)

GECS ENY OVERY 4 NOONS:

•1,024.00

DUDUCTICS:

Fetirerent

15.56

Contr. Lie Inso 12.00

Contract Health

-920

96.33

Incone Taxes withhell at SAvE

marters allowance

ost Di:cerential

iquilization illovance

Educational Allowance:

Transfer Allowance

Temporar: Loüging Allowance

Supplene: tary Post allowance

Furn tire lionntary illovance

Appliances to be added:

1,600 р.до

• *2200 poz.

2 chiliren u:900 p.a. each

2 children dil, 00 Fog. each

:175.00

10.00 per ia per adult

up to 90 Jays

1.50 per lay per c'ild under 11

15.000.a. for each child, or

120 p.d.

34,500 (loen not inciule appliances)

SLOVE

125.00

mirigerator

1295.00

Freezer

:250.00

Under Froject TVE, TOV :50.10 allowance or full use of 2P

less personal mileage

$ 31.25

71,:00.00

35,065.75 (see below)

Total air sire

•¡ani to Caracas 11143.00 (eson jet)

Por 6 sinlto an! 1 child

Total per lie for d day 6125.00 p.z.,

6 adults, I child

¡assport charges (pictros, fees, ete.) for 7 persong

Taxis to airport in lia:i & fro:: airrort in Cracas

insed on total shinning an storage allowances of

12,000 Ibs. 6.40. CO par CIT

excess baggage an air freicht.

55,:35.75

---

## Page 31

1d-0d0

115 3010

CLASSIFY TO PILE DO.

A-RED TO FILE NO.

AILEa00

RES. TO DUANEN O

0rsre0r Ds1s.

15/M

LI RID COPY

EHE MR C/MAt, 008, ADDl,

CIASSIFIED MESSAUR F

SECRET

roal reairs

PERSONT

GEPROOUCTIOY PROMBITES

ADVANCE COPY

issues

TIME

SECRET ISZUOSZ CITE C

72505

JWAVE INFO DIRECTOR

COS WISHES TO EGMIND PETER NO DE GRAVELO EN SIS

PERFURDANCE DURING RECENT TOY DI GERVINO WURKZO MARO

AND SKILLFULLY UNDER DIFFICULE CONDITIONS, COOPERATCO FULLY!

WITH. STATION, AND EARNED RESPECI OF EJOFFICIALS FOR •

COMPETENCE OF HIVSELF AND IMEREFONE WOFACT.

SECRET

15 Har 67 1 67 462

SECRET

15 May'l?

201-274048

---

## Page 32

many

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

M-REF TO FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSONIUNDS NOTICILO

TOTAL

19

DESTROr OsIc.

not zit

WHKOG-8 URN COPY

Jesura Duorero Cruse

FE, VR, CC 5-3, C SPS, OP-z, D/ms-2

AMIKE-T

REPRODUCTION PROMISITEO

HUMIT

aY

SECRET 24I92AZ CITE JWAVE 6411

DI RECT OR

TYPIC PER SONNEL

RE ESFIELD-LABAN ON TELECON OF A APRIL ALL MEMBERS OF

J FAMILY EXCEPT MOTHER OF L

] HAVE HAD MED ICÁL

EXAMINATIONS. RESULTS WERE FORWARDED BY UFET - 19624

DATED 2 FEBRUARY. MOTHER SCHEDULED FOR 4 APRIL.

PESULTS

WILL SE FORWARDED WITHIN THE WEEK•

SECRET

BT

EGRET

.

---

## Page 33

CLASSIFY TU DILE 1O..

8-ARE TO PILE NO.

FILE RICO

BER. TO BRANCH O

CL SIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POPAL COPIES

CIRI COPY

FEFRODIETINN PRONIBITES

ICT

eut

-но-

.......

PINd

SECRET 311947Z CITE JMWAVE 6367

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR,

REF: DIRECTOR 88252

31 Haa 67 34474

DI GERVENO CIDEND WHO NATIVE SPANISH SPEAKER AND EX-

was a nat...

PERIENCED IN WORKING WITH SGSWIRL OPERATORS. DI GEAVENO

HOLDING CONFIRMED RESERVATIONS I APRIL UNDER TRUE NAME,

CAN ETA

11030 BRANIFF FLIGHT 521. SPACE ON NEXT

AVAILABLE FLIGHTS SUNDAY, TUESDAY AND THURSDAY NOT YET

CONFIRMED.

2. IF NOFACT OFFICER NOT REQUIRED, CAN SEND EX-

PERIENCED CUBAN

REFUGEE INTERROGATOR,

HOWEVER REGUIRED

TRAVEL DOCUMENTS WOULD DELAY ETD.

3. PLEASE ADVISE PRIOR 1900 PREFERED TIME ARRIVAL

→ AND WHETHER WOFACI OFFICER REQUIRED,

SECRET

SECALI

---

## Page 34

14-00009

POPAL COn

(35)

CLASSIDY TO PILE NO.

#-ALE PO FILE NO.

DET. 10 BOANCH D

orsroor Osis.

Ten»

21

ACTION

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/LAIT NOTIFILO

PRECEDENC

REPRODUCTICN PROMIBITEO

+ 60N/C098

18 RID COPY

FILE, UR, COME, SODE, COSSI CICA, ESIPS, ES/DO, SECURN.

2010g

SE CRET 311947Z CITE JUNAVF 5368

IMMEDIATE DIRECT CR,

REF:

DIRECTOR 88252

be 2N 344745

IDEN:

SECRET

BI

3110. 54458

SECRET

NNNN

---

## Page 35

.wtas

122002.

Part!- Requent in deutr

STAILa Caster 200r:

Gaines Tone,

Continue arpaoyc.

PROEOSED ACETO::

Summy di banen and/or fleld reconmendaciond, peciale gesacione!

task pertoled uy

Individual; views te my atone lost tige acidiot

of indivraual for branch area and overa-i dirabe reels

it is recosmonded that Peter J. Dige-volo, a 1JD3 A Contidot

Agent with Carcer Agone status,

be prosoicd frod is present Crade

Gi-13 sica 2 loval do the grade (equivalcio) on Curi Gic, 1.

2. During the period 1 Deceaber 1905 Eurough 25 Fearuasy 1907

Diccaucio his served as en operations officco in tia ri conca do Lia

mach Scion, His performance during this period bag todd cacocad

ing. Ies pracasy duty, and the one in succi mio partorcaaco lua beca

caccelonally cospatent, was as the princibal canar of dia domailed

"operacional flying squad" of the Station, 1.0., La Grovelou, alous

où ulch crochor osficei, to various arcas o% dia rorid to exproaca

Cuban cages personalitiea for recruitzon purposes; do cobalei acaly

Iccruitcd egones or rooident agents trovcling cs.ood; iu train newly

liccruited ascats or nore cenior agenca; to servo to a coacuitar dad

cavious co cuban affaira for stations or baboo vica did voc yas00os

al ortice: inoriedgeable regarding Cuban opularzons; 10 add suc

Scucions in conducting operations, to coafer with cad, biore coudred

ly Duo ccal Station, to advise of assist local masson sarvices Li

che conducE of Cuban operationg.

oly en oiricer with the higicoe guai.000. 02g cared a tudly

cfcctive "flyiaz squad" reiber.

lu suot lavo crea knowlcige in depti conceding Cubs, including tea

inceut internal dovclopments. He Lust love a Lursonalaty shiva ecosles

hit to accued oriicials on occasion vory sonic: OLdIeidio COli-

Durate with the U.S, Government while sorving ¿roice Cuba Couparo tho

scrious persocal ricks involved.

He DuC DO DiD lU Croin Cycato in

u11 of the copies skills involved in the eniuceance vi i resident

C/UH/ Co3

not to no-ernes

237741%7

301-274048

A'EROVEN DY:

UNTE

:

SECRET

(when fliled Ini

---

## Page 36

.. - dachnta.a..

WIID AGENT BOARD

Part. I - Request for Action

(Continued)

oscat in a comanin. donied ores, Including Orde, socret Falling, crypto

Groply, W/i procedures, conccalment deviceo, pericaul secusity, inicill

cence colicoticu and reporting.

He must bo able to ceccapiion all ot

this troiving cgoinse c'itical time liaitctions.

it has been Digciveno"g

ability to hundle this very complex and difficuit job in a cursistontly

ciluctive end iccure wunner which has von hin tho praise of the lioni

Station cautgorant and concendationg from several other tiold ucations.

lie has turned in an exceptionally competent periocuance in every opera

tion which he has handled.

In a Station which considcrs ic has developed

a nurber of vory capable and versatile operationu ofricers, Digerveno

must be regarded

as one of the two or three top officers, icgardless of

---

## Page 37

.i.id.

DUS

CIT-2bio:iP

PeECE J. DIGENIZIO

27 Jan 1928!

USA

PENITAL STALUS

D.PHNUENTS (Relationship and? 00)

harkied

- Wife - 30 January 1923

• Son - 11 September 1951

16

• Son • Maich 1953 18

Daughter - 23 Oetober 2954 02

501 - 195770

201 Mont

1 201-274049.

ELUCATION

Dates

1945-48

194S-54

We of School

Tulane University

Tulare University

Locacion

Tulane, La.

Tulane, La.

begcee

13S

Major Stuuies

Psyciology

lumanities

Honeyare

Spanion

Portugese

Italien

Recding

Fluant

Pecs

ECOr

Dates

•Nume of Erployer

1954-1960

Lovca. District

Sales Viiice

(licpresentative

for various U.S.

AGENCY EXPERIE.CE-Staft C

Dates

*Cover ipluyer tame

jun0-60-

July-di

Sene as above. Bona

fide business.

julg-01-

Present JOCE'di

Writing

Fluent

Poor

Poor

Locatiu:1

Havana,

Cuba

Speaking

Fluent

Poos

Poor

Job or Fliccion

Manuger

Underatanding

FirenE

Poor

Poor

easy!

$10,000

por annua

approximately

Contract i

Agcit

Location

Havana,

Cuba

Mieni, Fla. $13,521 per

annu

Á, 4110

Employee

Basic Salury

Ops Tastes

$300 pee contin

Case Orficer

Paincipal

Agead, Stay

behind offic

Fi Ops Oriic,

midicato also radio of bushness and snother bomb tado of Agency

mechanist

(when fillcd in)

---

## Page 38

(stion Elllod in)

WHU AGEIF HUMU

PaTE ILL

Chronological Narracive

Performance Report

POLODONTM

YOter J. VICEIVERO

samely of evaluelon of past performance (1f appl caule) with euphasis

details of current performance for assigned upcrational cask:

De THS

LOCATION

June GO-July 61

Havana, Cuba

FL, PM, CA, CI, SB

July GloApril 65

kical, Florida

Nay G5-Prcccot

During the period June 1960-May 1965 DIGERVELO coquired coasiderable

f1 operational (perience, beginning with approzinaccly 18 concis in a

lectile, bonica dEca acrosphere. He 10 a cost couscicatious oLicer,

euro:bed by and dedicated to his vorl. He is rescuicciul, coussructive,

•capablo aud roguires a minimm of supervision, c has grouch potcacial

03 cil opciations officer and can handle Fl, ll cud CA cares with equal

compelcEce.

kis apparence is more typically Latin (noricon than Macive

United States suici enhances his uscfulness in Labia Amaricoa nad cose

Luropoal posEs.

Ile would be most effective in Coop cover co-coicial

assignaouts where his business experience end fluent Spanisn can be

uncd with nazirm effectiveness.

During tio period May 1965 through Deccaber 1900, DICERVEGO has

turned in an unusually strong performance.

Fore decailed inforuation

concerning his performance see attached current l'itness Reporc.

In case of "New kire" include a personality assessacht in terms of

arcatude,

person orate lend protec d se accole us panes at evasion

CUTIENC

notsigency job.

SECRET

(when filled

---

## Page 39

percios

: 011

4. сонд.і

ad Sulle

XaLD..LIfHI0N.1.+*M..9.

45094187F46P1818 - 58621289 C8

II. DATE ALFON: DUE. 110.f.

18. REE34:0 H3RI0088u, 40-9

2 Ear 1905 - 31 DocenDor 1900

SECTION &

ti - burca

T'ERFORMANCE EVALUATIO:

Perimanco rancos iron sholly inododele do sigill, less tras schistaitary.

tra coanale terrane adolese sacco dou e taca piego.

piccina, l0 8ez8Bignment

o do seppiation.

Describo actroa rine, er proposed un socssen C.

Ferto, canco conta all requiromanis lo is entitely soristocraty and la urareciorsod rannor by delicienty esi

escrilenco.

Ferarmanco is mare phon salisfactory.

Desisod resules ora being producad in a fiolciono pornor.

S- Siena

Persimanco 18 charsetorired by encoptionel seclictency.

0 - Quisicndica

Feilminano is so osceptional in relation lo leguiements el dio moris und in comparisan so ino partormance al

orners carna sonder mork os lo warren! speciel pocognities.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Line is dissi hare per cielo dorto con dice che leads ago erano sbicada

which kase dossiare he

Ail anaayoes

meta suparibory rosponsitrinos MUST do rotod on thair ability 89 superviso (edicaia dimber ci espio, ou o mupariando

SPECINE DUTY NO. 1

LETTE

Develops, recruits, trains, briefs and dispatchos denied area

SPECIFIC LUTI NU.&

landles denicd area resident agents thru clandestine communica-

tious chunuels (OrVl, St and W/T).

SPECTHE LUTE POG.d

Hanales agents. in Station area engaged in developing louus to

cemed area target officials and carrying out operarional support

julictions.

SPECIFIC WATEDO. A

TETTER

EMES

Reports by disparci, cable and internal nesorandun,

SPECIE:C EUTE NO. 5

Coordinates caversively with other clenents in the Scation aud

with other Stations concerning his operational responsibilities.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

OVERALL PERFORMAICE IN CURRENT POSITION

foraneo ci si ecitro duiras,

Tenaico dis dove dute dou firey, conduchion toduece his effect arca Sense 02960"-

Basod en your knowloágo

ol espiopeo's crerail persommarco durna da estia fairod,

alcio tho lallor in dna soteng tai corresponding lo lho srotonen mnich nost cicualol, cerioita his lunal di foricamanca.

$

DANO 45 UGE FASSOUS EDITIONA

SECRET

---

## Page 40

i lie

pet tole

da radiot

and a diamond socorate labor l dad boudo as verdied is maions"

Maccals performance during to mortin Drand i mea

unlanguanded by outlanding divordon to outy dad cacopedome col

11 all

phases

of denied iron

uncurls on the Siation's "flyin: squad"

To

meet and handle denied aron agents in besin countes al

1ar sonaradod as texico City and beirul, Sponding sex vi to 1a56 talle

months awny fron

the Station; despite

the conscquent dishpoon or 115

TiduLly hIIN':

he has accepted and carried out every issicanent vic u

1uh1in; chlusiasa and consistently high standsds vi priormans, Ma

percenaive manipulation of people, blocher in imposing in iccultie

new aganis on guiding and controlling established l'esident sources, as

shown pustlive results in product quality ind upcaciolid seculty

ihzulgiout

the reporting period.

His abilily to preDe in agonE LOs

clandestine operacions

in a denied arca,

in both tradecruit and psycuo

lugical terms,

is unsurpassed among officers vorting abalust ciur

target; he is

anaginative, set meticulous in puying acteution to cue

multiude of deinil nceded

for successful resident agent unitions,

and is able to uraw estensively on his earlive personal emperonce is

stayenchand resident to buttress his bricfings.

liuse of his oporationi

contacts have been carried out abroad,

Linuing personal contact vith senior Station virscors; dospite the oires

untumiliar local situation, he hns consistencly mintained the highest

Indected standards and von Isspoct 01 21 416115 0f The 105 StIl

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

DATE

9 February 1967

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF 10US REPORT

SISNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

1/e/ Peter J.

DI GURVEO (signed in parado on Fle. Iruns.)

2.

UNBENSE TURNVISION

BIAS BEEN

20.

'À THIS REMORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO GUNLONEL, DIVE EXPLAIATIUN

DATE:

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

NOd MiNTiTED NAME AND SUNATUL

9 February 1967

Chief, FI Branch, JIV/AVE| (signed in pseuco on Fid. Trang.)

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS GO HEVIEWINO OFFICIAL

See Attachment.

DATE

16 rubruary 15o7

TOFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIERNS OFFICIAL TYREO UR FARTLO PANE AD SUINTUIE

is/ Jo. du Dinor, üs.

Cies of Station, INMAVE (Signce 23 pSeujO v8 222. iTan)

SECRET

---

## Page 41

.."

SECRET

SECTIOS C

wholevr he has been.

Suject's Ihrustic auntity (bi-lingual Spanish-English) and

Mens tad, Orierly approach to his work are particularly virective

respoct to clandestine communications.

lot olily is no. jully

qualized iu instruer agents in Si and Owll Cincluding the use of nuncrical

and literal cipiors), but the clandestine nessages lie piepires hansel

are notable for left; content, unambiguous style and concase turmal; ocher

oïlIcers less 1luent

in Spanish frequently consult him concerning their

orin OliVl or St messages.

Althuuch Subject is a career agent, he has tunctioned in a stati

capacity durink idst of his tour at this Station. Lacing experience

interal procedures at the beginning, he is toddy iully lallar with

operational admimstration and support matters, and ius files fubirational,

administrutive und production) are anong the best and must complote in the

He is by muture a gregarious person bur is also seli-sulricient

to an advanced degice and likes to work on his own; leit to his ow

he may spend undue time on routine detail which could be nundled

sccrotary or one of the Branch IAs but this charcicriutie has been

wust valuable during TDY trips then circumstances have orien let nin

warhour the possivility of any qualified assistance.

suois i heulthy icard for operational and administrative econory and is

cost-cousciuls in the use of junds and nateriel.

Subject's

periormance merits an exceptionally strong evaluation wen

rated against the standards expected of staft officeis in his grade.

outstandingly able agent

handler in Cuban operations and as he

acquires bronaci esperience

can be expected to cunpare equally lavorably

wich orficers

ruming denied area operations auywhere in the world.

of personal character

and professional taleut,

ho is a fine officer,

of this organization, and it has been i distinct

pleasure to have served with hia.

SECRET

---

## Page 42

— SECKET

SECTIOY D - 3

COMMENTS BY NEURONG OrFICIAL

Tho Chers od Station has chosen lo tobick this coport

merline the very high opardon dield by che

Slam concernin the performance vi tot chico.

excoliont educarsonal background, intonso devotion to duty,

imaginaive approach to opcratics, ident-iandliny

tradecraft skills have dic boced in ochos

reports and need not be repcated here.

Humover, the reviewes

wishes to nole that during the reporting poriod, diced vich

a nunber of new operational challanges aid a saceable amount

01 inapondont work in arcas lar renoved iron tis Station

subject has turned in an unusall; stions periormance.

In his handling of several important and sunsative agents

being mounted into a denied area Sunjeet deonstrated

exceptional attention to detail, a line inulodge oi cadecic,

and unusual good judgment in a number vi dilicult operational

situations.

Thus, the reviewer fully conu's with the narracive

the performance evaluations of the rating officer.

EC R

---

## Page 43

DISPATCH

CLASSIKAITY

RYBAT - SECRET

PROCESSINLACIION

TO

Chief, WiD

InFa

MARKED FOR INOR KING

SO INOEXING REQUIRIO

OTELY QUALITILO DESA

CAN JUDGE INDEX INO

SUBJECT

chief of Station, WAVE PEE

LICROFIA

ACTS AEQUISED. REFERENDEI

Renewal of Robert S. HUNKELER Contract

Action Required: As Indicated

The present contract with Robert S. HUNKELER expires on 31

March 1967 and the question of renewal is up for immediate treatment

and decision.

The paragraphs below outline the major factors to be

considered in this matter.

HUNKELER is a former staff officer who resigned from WOFACI

in 1964 to establish a market research and marketing firm. He was

recontacted in the spring of 1965 and employed as an independent con-

tracter by the then COS, JUWAVE,

who expressed the hope that this

relationship might set a standard for use by WOFACT of former staff

officers as long tern clandestine assets and outlined HUNKELER's duties

and responsibilities as follows:

a. To provide cover for WOFACT personnel abroad.

Spotter and assessor of Central American consular

community in Niami.

Spotter and assessor of recruitment targets throughou

atin and Central America as developed through his travels and contacts.

Third party recruiter and agent handler, but only in

certain carefully controlled circunstances.

These original concepts framing HUNKELER's activities have

continued as the major guide lines

to his employment.

Also added was

the task of reporting such positive and operational intelligence as he

might elicit from his contacts and associates..

Attachments

1 - Operational Review of

Robert S. HUNKELER h/w

2 - IDENTITIES v/s/c

Distribution:

3 - NH/COG w/atts.

CANSS DEFERENCE TO

DISASTCH SYMBOL AND BUMDER

UFGA-27019

CLASSES CATION

RYBAT

SECRET

TUSTE

16 February 1967

41-37464-9

---

## Page 44

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

RYBAT• SECRET

UFGA-27019

The following

summarizes the progress that

was made in these

areas during the two your period of HUNKELER's contract status with us.

Cover was provided for a Berlin based agent, AMTIRILL/1.

Although the agent was terminated by Berlin Station,

management of his

sas competently and professionally handled by

HUNKELER.

to offer his services to WOFACT in this respect and,

although ho could provido a cover office anywhere in the latin American

has specifically suggested Haiti,

the Dominican Republic, Costa

and Venezuela,

He is now in the process of opening,

initiative, branch offices in Venezuela and the Dominican Republic and

again voluntecred them for possible use as cover. According to HUNKELER

has shown some interest in taking advantage of the offer

There has been no other use by WOFACT of this HUNKELER potential during

the past two jears." Such use in the future is an open question depend

ing in part on whether WOFACT has a requirement for cover facilities

such as this, and in part on the nature of our relationship with HUNKELEF.

HUNKELER has met frequently with members of the Central

and Latin

American consular community in the Miami area.

These assOC-

lations were enhanced by HUNKELER's activity and participation in

several international organizations concerned with business and social

relations among Latin and North American countries.

Some operational

Information was rathered about these persons.

but none of them ever

shaped up

as a valid intelligence target worthy of further development

and recruitment.

It is not expected

that this target area will be of

any more interest in the future than it is now.

HUNKELER has a large number of business associates through

out Latin America and in his travels has contacted a number of government

officials up to the presidential level®

Most of these contacts have

been of a business nature.

some interest to the

one or them, a Panamanian legislator been o

Interest in the others has

minimal. Future prospects remain open, but must be considered as long

There has been no use made of HUNKELER as a third party

recruiter and agent handler during his two year tenure.

clared himsolf always ready and willing to take on agent handling tasks,

but the Station has found it more advantageous and otticient to use

inside personnel for this.

It is highly unlikely that station policy

will change in this regard.

HUNKELER has been on several business trips during this period.

On these occasions he was given an intelligence brief and his operation

al expenses were defrayed by WOFACT.

The results, in terms of dissemine

ated reports, have generally beon negative.

HUNKELER provided an introduction to some individuals

who have a potential for use fr

the MILYION program.

There was some

discussion of continued activity for HUNKELER in this program, but 1t

was the consensus that there was not sufficient promise

in his contri

bution to merit retaining him for this purpose alone.

It can ba ex

that he might, in the future, assist in entree to

other persons of JNUNION interest.

Station AMiAVE is of the opinion that employment of Robert S.

HUNKELER has not had the results that were hoped for when

the contract

ual relationship was first established.

Recognition of this was implicit

1r the renegotiation

of his salary scale from $4800 to $3600 per annum

in March 1966

at the

end of his first year's contract.

It is also the

Opinion

of this

Station that thero is little likelihood of improvement

in the near

future althouh

it 15 recognized

that n

long

range potential

Those statements are mado without prejudice to RobertS.

HUNKELER, who has at all times taken a responsible, willing and coop

attitudo in his solationships with Station

roproscutatives. and

discussions

of tasks and tho prospects of future employment.

It should

be noted that WlSKELER wanty very much to rolain some 10rn

or relation

the organiestion, as much for reasons of interest in the

1nt0l11ganr0 profession a

for incoso he aight derive.

× 530

RIBAT-SECRETY

---

## Page 45

E38C6+091-82606258346

UFGA-27019

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

RIBAT-SECRET

Headguarters Action Requested

It 15 JWAVE's view that HUNKELER's only actual

potential salue

to WOFACT is as a support agent to Wil Division as a

whole, In supplying unofficial cover and possibly in spotting, develop

His value to operations of JAVE

castly by a staff employee.

Thorefore, it is requested

that Head-

quarters review this case and comment as soon as possible.

alternatives are:

a. Renewal of contract as it is at present salary of $3600

per annun.

•

b. : Terminate.

HUNKELER has advised that he is not prepared

to accept à salary under his present level..

suggested that the

101lowing representative memoranda also be read in this connection:

UFGT 18719, Memorandum in Lleu of Fitness Report

UFGA 26782,

Unofficial Cover Opportunity, Caracas

NFGA 26598, JUNION/Donald James Miller

*UFGA 26195,

Unotiicial Cover Opportunity, Halti

UFGA 26170, HUNKELER Visit to Ha1t1

After an object-

situation and further asked that it be forwarded to Headquarters in

he should be granted the chance to so express himself and to be heard

on ald levels

where his

employment was being treated of. HUNKELER's

memorandum is attached.

Philip G. ELBARD

10530

wat +98+94488 -349-6373

RAINE

secret

3

tand +4093568

---

## Page 46

S-F.-C-R-E-T

Dise 19 October 1966

Career Agent Biographic Data

a. Picudonym of agent _Peter J. DiGerveno

b. Dire and place of biral: 27 January 1928 - Cuba

c. Marital status:

Married

_Stall or Division WH

d;

Platosho Man 1925 of birth of de resents:

Wife - 30 Jan

Son

• 11 Sep

1951°

Son

— Mar 1953

23 Qct

c.

chitonship or iger!:

1954

USA

(1) If naturalisred, shen?

(2) If naturaliard, where?

f. Non-CIA eque ation 1o ire lude name and location of colloge, degrees,

dates, and suji::

1945-48 Tulane University Tulane, La BS PsycholOgy

1948-54 Tulane University

Tulane, La

MA

Humanities

153.

g. Military serrie

None

(1) Couniry served and joars:

(2) Branch of service and rank:

h. Non-CLA employmons: Kinds of business or profession, positions.

salarie:, borations, aud dales:

0951-070 meter a combine est bistrict Sales

Orion too vardous l. s. firms.

510.000 voarly. o

14 settle

firing l

dowagracigard declassication

P:

• ong. me.

---

## Page 47

SEC-K-F-T

(Career Agen: Biographic Doin p. 2)

i. Da es of psycholog ral assessmen, professional ind language

aptitude perils.

if applicable:

J. Languages, including English, using the following serms:

Elementary, Hieromediate, High, Native

Spanisl

Portuguese

Italian

French

Agency training:

Subjrit Covered

Reading

Fluent

Poor

Poor

PoOr

Writing

Fluen

Poor

Poor

Poor

Duration of Course

Spack in

Fluent

Poor

Poor

Poor

Years Taken

1. Alias ar pseudonym used for poychologicil assessment, resting or

training, if applicable:

m. Security clearance nuribeg:

n.

Date of last ICFLUTTER:

0. Contract provisions:

(Underline One)

11) Pervision for popender step increanes

No

199 195089081090 lie sled ellied of deede indelie

(i) 1900:06 for anil corride retirement

Yos

Ye:.

Ye's

Ye's

S-5-C-N-2:-1

F.

,..

__.

---

## Page 48

.

(Career Agent Biographie Dila p. 3)

p Dale of beginning Of corrent lour:

4. Previone: ClA esmpligarent:

Yen's Typsof Cover

CIA Duties.

Project

City

Salary

15 Jul 1:61

Contract Asent

JMWAVE

$9600

1 Sep 1962 NOC

Conversion to

FI Ops Off

Contra o EmployeTaskforce # JAVE S9600

17 Mar 1963 v

FI Ops Off

5 Jan 1964

.

5 Jul 1964 -

14 Feb 1965

1 Dec 1:965

Conversion to

Career Agent

3 Jul 1966

$10,400

$10,950

$11,295

$11,315

$12,510

$12,873

----

bonatc..m:

---

## Page 49

ATTACHNENT TO UFGA 27019

SECREN

MEXO RAN DUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Operational Review of Robert S. Hunkeler

DATE:

16 February 1967

Background:

Shortly after Hunkeler resigned from KUBARK he

met with the then Chief of Station on several occasions

concerning Hunkelers potential use as a Station asset.

It was between the period following his resignation, and

before his first contract with the Station, that the COs

told Hunkeler that he was in a "cooling off period" during

which time Hunkeler should devote his energies towards the

settlement of his personal affairgand the development of

his own business interests. Hunkeler was also told that

his value to the Station and to KUBARK would be increased

18 he were free from all ties with KUBARK and ODYOKE In

order that Hunkeler may be available at a later date for

KUBARK assignments. The COS did not, however, make any

commitments to dunkelere

Developments:

2.

During the months which followed Hunkelers resignation

he proceeded to attend to his personal affairs in Lakeland,

Plorida, and

established his company, Identity A, in the

WAVE area.

SECRET:

---

## Page 50

= 2 .

After a number of months had lapsed, Hunkeler

was contacted by the Station COS and was recruited under

& contract in the amount of $500.00 a month plus operational

expenses. Hunkeler expressed a willingness

to undertake

any assignment and a desire to actively participate in

operations. (His initial target was largely limited to

the monitoring of the activities and the personalities of

the foreign consular corp in the VAVE area and reporting

on matters of operational interest ae they came to Hunkelers

attention.)

4..

Shortly after Hunkeler was placed under contract

he submitted a paper to the Station which spelled out a

number of specific tasks which he could, under the cover

of his company if required, undertake for the Station

or KUBARK. (There aboignments are ot111 comptablo with.

to present sover and baokground. There follows a list

of these tasks;

(a) Sale of KURIOT doctored parts and supplies

to the government of PBRUMEN through middlemen

and in a manner as to not disclose Hunkelers

Involvement.

( b)

Providing non-official cover facilities

to persons being assigned overseas and who require

tight, realistic and flexible cover.

---

## Page 51

- 3-

(c)

Recruitment pitches, courier work, or

related

assignuents anywhere in Latin America.

(d) Monitoring of diplomatic and commercial

activities in the vAVE area.

(e) Reporting on targets of operational

Interest, both in the wAVE ares and in those

countries here Hunkeler visits.

(1) Spotting and assessment of specific operational

targets in the PEPRIME and in Latin America.

Review of Accomplishments:

5.

Whereas Hunkeler remained ready and willing to

trevel anywhere at anytime for any KUBARk assignment, he

was advised that his long range value would be jeopardized

if he rere to take operational assignments involving any

degree of risk. Hunkeler was, in his opinion, "kept in a

vacuum" as regards his being able to serve field Stations

which have not to this date been made aware of his availability

to travel except in those cases when his business travel takes

to a country and the field Station is advised of his presence

in the area.

6.

From the outset Hunkeler began to report on develop

ments in

the wAVE area and he bagan to work in organizations

which would pernit him to penetrate the diplomatic community

---

## Page 52

- 4-

and strengthen his operational capabilities in terms of

being able to spot and aßgess Latin American political

leaders. Hunkeler got him-self appointed to a policy

making position in the Identity B, he was elected to

the position of President of Identity C, appointed to

the Board of Directors of Identity D, was elected to

the position of President of Identity E, and became a

delegate to several conferences (Panama, Jamaica and

1n PBPRIME) of the Identity F.

It was largely as a result of Hunkelers Latin

Anerican oriented commercial activities and his organizational

activities that he uns sble to provide tirely and valuable

reports on the Dominican crisis, estatlish a personal

relationship with Identity & and persons close to him,

spot and access several Fanamanian targets, and report

on the activities and recommendations of Identity H, an

organization which provides commercial policy to the President

of Panama. (See

Hunkeler kept the Station

up to date on the personalities and

activities of the Consular

Corp in the WiVE area, and has furnished assessments and

blographic

information on

12 members of this group.

---

## Page 53

5 -

8.

Other accomplishments include the followirg;

(a) Overstional recorting: During the last two

years Hunkeler has traveled to and submitted

operational and/or intel reports about lexico,

the Dominican Repablic, Haiti, Jamaica, Venezuela,

Panama and Costa Rica, in addition to reports

originating in the WAVE area.

(b) Establishment of Cover Facilities: In 1966

Hunkeler set up and maintained cover facilities

for an agent who was initially trained in Hunkelers

companies and subsequently assigned to a European

post where he remained until a personill reduction

cut caused his termination. The cover aspects of

this cover operation, however, were tight and

professionally maged by Hunkeler. Other cover

facilities developed by Hunkeler in this period

included a cover office facility in Haiti, Venezuela

and the Dominican Republic.

(c)

Other: In late 1966 Hunkeler net with an Officer

assigned to the WAVE Station for the purpose of

reviewing the operational potentiais of the "aribbean.

Hunkeler was able to provide the Officer with the

names and introductions to persons well known to

lunkeler who are now in

the Caribbean or residing

in Miani and available to participate in gent, p.a.,

or informant capacities.

---

## Page 54

- 6-

Present Situation:

9.

In early February, 1966, Hunkeler met suith a lase

Officer

who reviewed Hunkelers existing

business activities in

Jand who told Hunkeler that

the

_ desired to use a Hunkeler company for

non-official cover purposes in l

The success

of Hunkelers commercial activities in the Dominican Republic

(and the corresponding move by Hunkeler to open an office

in Santo Domingo) is a recent development and there has not

yet been time to query

as to whether or

not they have a requirement to use Hunkelers facilities.

(Hunkeler is presently phasing

out of much organizational

work in the WAVE area in order to devote more time to the

chore

of setting up his operations

In Santo Domingo and

Venezuela where both of his companies

are currently doing

business.)

10.

There are

several aspects of Hunkelers present business

activities which have not yet been finalized: He will soon

terminate his lease at his present address and has not yet

decided where to re-locate lis offees; he is still in

negotiations with an investnent group in Haiti and may

undertake a consultant type survey there which would provide

access to Halti of possible interest to

---

## Page 55

-7-

Frisure Potentialg:

11€

When lunkelers contract was about to expire in

February, 1966, he met with & Station Officer and advised

that he was

fully in accord with a salary cut from $500.00

to $300.00 a month in keeping with budgetary cuts whick

were evident at that time. Moreover, Hunkeler voluntertly

ceased requesting reimbursement ¿or operational expenses

choosing to use his KUBARK income for entertaintent expenses

which oftimes have operational value to KUBARK. Although he

has expressed his strong desire to continue his KUBARK

relationship under a renewal of his present contract for

8300.00 a month, he has advised that he does not care to

renew his contract for a figure of less than $300.00 & month.

Robert S. Hunkeler

16 February

1967

---

## Page 56

14-00000

.:"..

SEPARATE COVER ATTA VENT TO UFGA-27019

221973

IDENTITY

A.

B.

c.

Do

E.

F.

Go

Ho

The NALAD Corporatin (North & batin American development

Corporation), an exporting comany now specializing in

industrial equipment, light industrial plants, and

equipment.

Florida Colombia Alliance, founded by the Secretary

of the State of Florida, Tom Adams.

The Dominican-American Chamber of Commerce

The Miami-Dade County Chamber of Commerce

The International Affairs Council of the Miani-Dade County

Chamber of Commerce, the largest international trade

organization in the Southeastern U.S.

The Chamber of Cormerce of the Americas, comprised of

47 Chambers of Commerces from 17 countries.

Haitian Dictator Francois Duvalier

CONEP - Consejo Nacional de Empresas Privados (National

Association of Private Industry)

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SUBSIDY DONE DO. SEE DE, CASSIPICO MESSAGE

#-ALO TO PILE N0.

70868 COB189

SECRET

PERSON NOT MOTIFILO

#EPASCUCTION PROMIDITEO

.. ASSEM BY 3

ADVANCA COPY

I RID COPY

On DoOr.

FILE VA, SISURE, CHIE 3, CICI COPES, ClOSE3, ceLa

SECREI

151220Z CITE FRANKFURT 5859, "QUAINTANCE ACTING)

PRIORITY

INFO DIRECTOR, UMWAVE

IN. 57332

КАРОК ТУРІЄ

REF

FRANKFURT 5627

6151018

15 JULYEG

FRANKFURT 5882

156612

Aar

C SINWAVE 1994 195680213

D

(1256717)

IP

115S: 157

JIMDESY

DIGERVEND IS IDEN A USING IDEN B OPS ALLIS.,

ASSUME C

I WILL CABLE ETA.

IS IDEN C USING IDEN

D OPS ALIAS. KE IS PARTICIPATING

AGENT TRAINING.

2. AFTER INITIAL DIGERVENO DEBRIEFING OF ROMERO, BARRING

UNFORESEEN COMPLICATIONS EITHER LANGOSCH OR C

COULD

FOLLOW UP. DECISION DEPENDS ON CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH

DEBRIEFING WILL TAXE PLACE IN ITALY, WILL APPRECIATE C

COMMENTS PER REFS A AND B, INCLUDING VIEWS ON WHETKER I

PARIICIPATION WOULD

INHIBIT FUTURE OPS USE IN ITALY.

SO FYI INWAVE: AMVAN HAS TENTATIVE ARRANGEMENIS FOR

ANOTHER MEET WIIN NUNEZ WHICH MAY FACILITATE O

ITALY, WILL ADVISE DEVELOPMENTS.

4. SUGGEST CABLE CONTACT DIGERVENO INSTRUCTIONS TO

SECRET

#CONCURRSI DI GEEVENO STOPOVER

ITALY TO HAUBLE RUMERO SCCEENING

BT

INTERVIENE..

201-16.5382

2180274049

---

## Page 58

3001E. O ves D•To.

TO PILE DO: Ii-TES 2E BLASSITIEO MESSACE

•100

esrear Dere. torthäe

SECRET

•COTEA LAIT DGTIGIEO

==

AEPRCCUCTICN PROHIBITEO

r SISSEm AY 3

TIO ACLHiHLE 5

D8 RID COPY

D..... 0......O...

IC VR, CLEURt, a|NE3, CC1, C/ABSER, CICCS2, ClE1a

P 1 ME

15406x57272

SECR E T ISI2ZOZ CITE FRANKFURI S908' Y QUAINTANCE ACIING)

PRIORITYL

INFO DIRECTOR, JAWAVE

КАРОК ТУРІС

REF®

FRANKFURT 5899 (552532)

IDEN A:

IDEN B?

MAJOR ALEXIS PELGADO

IDEN C.

JOHN POULTER

IDEY D:

CAPT LEWIS EXHOLM

SECRET

BT

---

## Page 59

14-00000

18988. 0-8088

CLASSION TO PILE s0.

nare so rise to.

81688,0

DES:B00

"CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Te: 1(220)

DEPRIC MICE PROMIE

ACTION

JIWHYE

AOVANCE COPY

TArO

WA-8.

CỊ RID COPY

FILE, VR, WHl/C-8, CT, CI/ips, RE

SE CRE T 092356z

PRIORITY MEXI INFO DIR CITE WAVE 3809

DYVOUR PBRUMEN AMTHRILL

REF A UFGA 21519

MEXI 1868(1N0 7548) +

10 JuL 65 # 08655

C WAVE 3810(1NOS651)

la AMTHRILL-I AND DI CERVENO ARRIVING MEXI 10 JULY, ETA 1930.

2. DI GERVENO (IDEN AY TRAVELING UNDER ALIAS'LEON BERNADA.

PLAN STAY PRADO MOTEL. WILL CALL IDEN B AFTER SETTLED. PLAN

VISIT STATION 12 AND 13 JULY.

3. DISPATCH REF A FORWARDED HAS 25 MAY 65, POUCH 2767,

ITEM 20. BELIEVE COPY DELIVERED MEXI DURING REUTEMAN/ELMARD RECENT

VISIT•

*Concur Di GeiveNo visiT

SECRET

CEN 3889 UFGA 215%9 4868 3810 AM HRILL-I DI GERVENO NO ETA 1938

DI GERVENOÁ ALTÃS LEON BERÑADA PRADO HOTEL B 2 I3 A 25 65 2767

28 REUTEMAN /EL MARD

BT

SECRE!

---

## Page 60

CLASS, TO FILE DO.

PIRAIDO

Her, 10 Bear: 0

"CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

34/

SECRET

PERSES GRIT MOTIFTIO

POPUL COPIES

REPACQUETICY PRONIOITED

ACTION

ADTANCE COPY

WH-8

& RID COPY

Thro

EME, V§ CI, ST/OPS, K5WUH/C-3

UNIT

TIME

107

SECRET 0923562

PRIORITY MEXI INFO DIR CITE WAVE 3810

DYVOUR PERUMEN AMT HR ILL

REF VAVE 3809((N 08655)

IDEN A:

IDEN B:

HOME PHONE

SECRET

CFN 3810(3809

• 10JuL JuL651: 08651

SECRED

---

## Page 61

1d-0d0d

GASSIE SO MESSAGE

TSD/OA/AB/D2 & 19*x

EXT : 2835

0o0.9:

" SECRET

SAL 5 MARCH. 1265

DARNERED

1O : IMWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONT: T5D6

INFO: DD8, WHDE8,

ce53

Vg FILE

10

WAVE

INFO

AQUATIC

RE UFGA 19153

_1: 89

501

512265

47:

C591r5s

X POUTINE

CITE DIR

90299

DISGUISE TECH BERNARD PREPARED TO TDY

WAVE WEEK 15 MARCH. NEED NOT MEET. REQUEST

CONCURRENCE AND WHETHER SUBJECTS OF REF

AVAILABLE.

*End of Message*

TSD Comment: Request disguise support for WELDRAKE,

HUSEBY, SLOMAN, DIGERVENO and

AMTRUNK-21.

WH/SA/MOB

TSD/PERS

I by phone x-6488 f

by phone x-3031 ol

5 may 45

SIDNEY GOTTLIEB

DC/T'SD

MELEASING DIFICES

COORRIMATIME OFFICIES

C/TSD/04

AUTHESTILATING

Copy No

---

