# 104-10167-10293

## Page 1

104-10167-10293

FRCH:

RIDI

SECRET

(WHEN FILED INJ

RIAN

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

OlE: ln the absance ol comers or intestion of acti

don, this soner shoot will be destroyed unters o

doeunent is fled

COMMENTS

CArE

OFFCINE

RELATED "FORDANDED

TO

ROOk

hitt/46 Bopto

3.

17,036

anoh

MCa COPY DETACHED Chame

RECORD COPY

10.

12.

18.

16.

17.

18.

10.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ENCLOSURE

DATE MICAOFILMED

14000

ABSTRACT

INDEX

t:!.

FILE NUMBEN

201-

MENT DATI

Yaky of

it sast2

DOCUMENT AU

HKHA-05292

FORME

450

610g

USE PREVIOUS

EDITICAS

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, i=

CLASSATICATION

ColE? 1-1-50373-1-9-1

FROM

BLALECI

Chief o? Station, Fabans

ilecellarowe

Pedro l:'s DIAZ Lan:

ACTION MONITED

¡one; for information only

NEFER AS)

RAVA-2350, 1 July 1959

DISPATCH STAIRCA ANO 4O

FT: -4-5307

MLADQUAITEES FEE NO

201-

DAN

2 July 1950

BE: "A3T' - NICE TONE)

MARNED FCO EDITING

NO INDEIMES REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALI dO NO. DESE ONIY

Attached as of postible interest to Readquarters are two copies of/the

letter fron DIAZ lanz which vas zentioned in the reference.

';.

03

Attachrest:

2 clippings

Distributions

23- Feadquarters w/attach, as noted

2 - 7410s w/attach. (single cops)

MRR/pza

PORA

10 5 53

BACA

USE PREVIOUS EDITISN

REPLACES FORES

18.28. 31 28A AND 5 28

CLASSHICATION

COT:-I-D-ERT-I-AL

HKH-A-534

PACHINO.

[COMINUED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

EL Y000 1 July 1959

La carta renobela del co

nandante Dias Lan

Varadero, Junio 20 de

1030.

Dr. Manoel U'rrulla y Lies,

Presidente de La Republica

Palaclo Presidencia

a Haban

Sedor Prealdeate:

Por la presente

usted aceptar con

caracter

irrevocable, la renuncia al

cargo de Jele de las Fuertes

Aéreas de Cusa que he ro

Bido ocupando hasta el dia

de hor.

Exporgo a continua-

clon las rasones que me obir

san a tomar esta determing

ctón:

1) Al tomar posesión de rai

¡cargo nuevamente en el dia.

de hoy to ser or despues

comandante Juen Alneieda."

• Que me escoatraba subordi.

inado a éi, pueste que por cr

•den express del comandante

Fidel Castro, di aciedicho io.

mandante Juan Almelda le

ala que actuar como jele ab

solulo de las Fuerzas Aéreas.

=¡ En esta forma se anula

me autoridad en dicho man-

ido y ello se presia a que se

.use mol sombre para actos no

aceplados ni ordenados por.

mal. lo cual es isadmisible pa,

ra quien como ya, supo alem

pre cumpla coa su deber a

¡pienitud y mas sún se eros

dio varias veces en este pas

10, partic passo personalmen

de en combate siempra qa

tuso oportunidad y no limi

táodome a l'evar armas a la

Sierra y al Seguado Freal

.Oriental Frank Pais.

Si Considero que lodas es

las arciones es mi contra, sa

deben unica y escluurames

¡le a que jezpre me he ma

alfestado cocirerio a la

titud que permite a los comu

¡platas ocupar posiciones pro

¡minentes dentro

del

Ejér

¡ello Rebelde y desiro de Las

dependenciar del Goberna

También has ejercido, pre-:

siones

los

elementos

comtr

Butas para llesar a cabo

plan determinado de adoctri

mamiento en la Escuela

que

fupciona en la faca "Ei Cor;

Ujo". ublcada en la Interage.

ción de la Aviopista del 3e

dodia y la carreiera central:

además lodos sabemos

hiea

Señor

Presidente,

quiénes,

arn, dónda eslia y qué

fla i

persiguen

Recha Sr. Presidente, el!

testimonio de mi cocsidera

cion y respela

Pedre la Duz Lams,

Cundile. IF. Au dele de la PAR

068259120

---

## Page 4

181-07-84

iyauecha)

THE FASHINGTO:. . OST end TIMES HERALD

A6

Wednesday, July 1, 1939

Cuba's Air Chief Quits;

His Arrest Is Ordered

HAVANA, June 30 (AP) commanded the air force Initator Fulgencio Balista's re-

The commander of Fidel Cag. Diaz's absence, was named to gime.

tro's air force resigned loday, succeed him.

Almeida said Diaz had been!

whereabouts of Diazlunder investigation for crimes

charging. Communist infiltra could not be learned tonight. "to which he must answer be

tion of Cuba's armed forces. There we, speculalien be hadyfore

His suecessor arcused him ol gone

the revolutionary tribu-

being a draitor

revolution

Castro's country.

underground or ieft theinals."

and ordered

arrest

his;

Diaz's resignation was the

ider for

Almeida announced the or. first by a government officiall

MIsj. Pedro Luis Diaz Lanzirest after a

his predecessor's ar-on such grounds.

Castro basi

sent his resignation to

confererce with|repeatedly denied charges

of

deat Manuel Urrutis. Diaz had Raul

Presi-Castro and his broicer. Slaj.|Red induence in his gorera.

Associated Press PRo'o

SLAJ. PEDRO LUIS

DIAZ LANZ

• • ~ quits air post

Castro,

resuned

his

post yesterdar chiel of the armed forces

commander in|menL

after a month's absence whicb!

In a letter to Urrulia, Diazilarge arms cache and airses

WAS

attributed

typhoid desertion, (2) treason.

fever.

Almeida accused Djaz of (1) said that on returning to his invasion plans-and the deten-

31 "rob

furries,

and (4) being in con.

office

Monday be found Al-tion

of two other

Maj. Joan Almeida, who had, tact

with

members of er die.

meida bad been made absolutela. Britich journallst,

Americans.

sereral

chief of the air force.

Cubans. and nearly 200 would

"I runsider aii these actionsine mombore of an erpedition

India Bars 'Exile'

Role for Dalai Lama

against me due only exclusive-lary force against tne regime

ly to the fact that I base al-lof Jicarazuan President Luis

ways opposed acts that would Somoza,

@bicial

sources

permit

Communists to take ported

prominent positions within the

The

iritish subted

rebel arny and within depen- identifed as

Carl John ri

dencies of gorernment," Diaz's son,

free-lance journalise

letter said.

who has been in Hanara ser.

Reuters

"Farthermore,

all of us eral weeks.

NEW DELITI, India, June 30;from ,the Tibetan capital of!

know well, MIr. Presidene, who

The two Americans detained

The Dalal Lama may

leave Lhara

during

India and seak political

'a rerolt last!

asy-March arainst the Chinese.

what objectives they follow."

Juma In South Wiel-Yam,

diploj

An official

ndian spokes.

of Mismi,

matie sources buid here lo man said here today that thelhis

bout remors of Dies lead sardor o Los age

Indian Government does not)

post,

Premier

#ho

Speculation that lhe 24vear Irecognize any separate gorera-

press

secretary

Castro's claimed be is a motion-pleture

said reports producer.

may ment under the

leave Tie county aided ay functioning in India."

Dala: Lamalare not true.

that Diaz had been dismissed

More than a dozen of the

200 volurieer mostly Nicars.

refusal lodag

to allow|

The spokesman was repiring police raid on the swank Ha-

In another development a guans were held wbile the

alm to function, here as head to a statement by the Dalai vana home of a former liS. a warnire

of 'Tibetary gorermentin. Lama that wherever he and Nasy pilot last night frustratee

remainder were released with

his government

charges have been

they a planned aft and sea invasion placed arainst Hughes or any

I, the Dalat Lama plans to

In Florida, custome agent

Tie Tibeta case ganse trase belles implanted Capt Fast as on hermer etodaon ad a privo

béfore the United Nations.

ammunist Chinese overlords Sations observera here feltilanta. Ga. pilot and receptly airport, s'opped a small plan

that Soinh VietNam would be arivisor in the Cuban rebel air as lt taxied olf and arrested)

India on April 2 after fleeing be might seek asylum

The Detal Lams arrived Inthe logical country in which falf led to the selzure of al Castro piestera

described as and.

---

