# 104-10107-10065

## Page 1

104-10107-10065

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OGC 69-0707

15 April 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

1. Mr. Heinonen called to advise that Mr.

- 03.

would

be available for a meeting on 11 April and asked if I would come

to the @GLOBE downtown office to attend. In preparation for

the meeting I contacted Mr. Rocca to determine what recent

developments had taken place in New York with regard to Herbert

Itkin's accepting the compromise solution reached between Messrs.

Hogan and Morgenthau.

2. Mi. Rocca advised that the State of New York had with-

drawn from the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of

New York its motion to remand Herbert Itkin to the State of New

York for trial. Secondly, Mr. Rocca stated that the Family Court

of Westchester County had denied Herbert Itkin's request for

rehearing the custody award of Mrs. Itkin's two sons. Thirdly,

Herbert Itkin had prepared a draft letter to George Washington

University, School of Diplomacy (sic), in which Itkin purported

to offer a manuscript describing his work with the CIA for

publication by the University. Itkin did stipulate that the University

would have to obtain the approval of the DCI before publication of

the book. It is puzzling to fathom Itkin's real motivation in

making this offer.

03

02

office in Washington and explained to him the developments which

had taken place with regard to Herbert Itkin's legal entanglements

in New York City. I pointed out to Mi."r

that we assessed

his risk of exposure based upon three possibilities: (a) the

unpublished feature article prepared by

e article prepared ebert Itin's career othe

29

SECRET

syriasan:

at palomedia l

de: 1a21

---

## Page 2

SECREI

об

mention

in view of his

with Itkin;

(b) the New York County District Attorney's office has knowledge

Baffiliation with CIA and we are unable to control their

use of that information; and (c) the assumption that Herbert Itkin

has been told by the FBI that

is affiliated with CIA.

I further explained that at the present time it appears unlikely

that!

would be directly involved in Herbert Itkin's trial,

but we could not be absolutely certain that such problems would

not arise in the future.

03.

4. With regard to Mr.

future assignments, I

explained that this was a decision which rested with the DDP,

and particularly the European Division, but from a legal standpoint

we were not going to object to Mel

assignment to

I did advise Mr®3

that it was our opinion that he would be

better off not to return to New York City as conceivably the

District Attorney's office might want to question him further on

wis relationship with Herbert kin, and ive did not think that this

would be too helpful in trying to maintain

cover. Mr.

M1º30

• EDGLOBE office had considerec

Teinonen noted hat York to receive some covert training, but in

view of our concern about the New York area, they would make o3

plans for another location for this training: I asked Mr.

to be sure and advise us if he received any communication directly

from Herbert Itkin or any of his associates in the Conestoga, Ltd.

venture, and Mr.3

said that he would comply but doubted

that anyone would attempt to contact him.

02

5. Mr. Heinonen indicated that (GLOBE would be in touch

with the European Division during the week of 14 April to assess

the risk factors involved in

assignment and seek a

suitable cover.

15-4

715-4

on K heaney

(JOHN K. GREANEY

Asgistant General Counsel

cc: CCS APOLOBE

C/CI/R&A

C/E/F

D/Security

OGC: JKG:bt 03

vOrig.

Isubj file

1

1

- JKG signer

ITKIN subj file SECkET

1

- Chrono

---

