# 104-10229-10084

## Page 1

104-10229-10084

DISPATCH

r.. 711.944

SACKET

DO IAMrdr, A3ganBE0

DALY QUALITIES 1159

Can lull lietroine

WI( 801 11 31

574,96

Deguty Chies, WilD for Cuba.

$7d.5,8

• TYPIC/ANBUD Benofit Paywents

PORTINLO RULECIS

Tho following concludlong have been reachad on tho

of discusalono with Alico D. CAPONONG at licadquattore

on 29

Tho present progrom for vocatlonal rohabilitation

of wounded

the Brigado will be continued

change until its normal tormination date.

Medical rchabilita

tIon will continue aithout intorruption.

Present payments to the dependents of imprisoned

Brigade members will be continued without interruption until

the prisonors can be recovered from onomy bands.

C.. Paymente to dependents of imprisoned porsone

the "Heroes and Martyrs" rolla will be continued without

interruption until theo are recovorod fron enemy hande.

D.

Those listed as misding from anony Brigade

members and

"Heroes and Martyrs" rolla must now be considered

k1llod in actlon.

We #1l1 undertake an investigation of the circum

stancos of all peraons recolvint paymenta as depondents of

dead or mlssing Brigado and/or "leroen and Vartyrs" lists to

determine whother continued financial assistanco 1e still

warranted.

The investigation should be initlated with a

questionnairo

be sent by ANTIKI/]

to each rocipient of y

assistance requiring him (or her) to provide information on

his (or her) current marital status, incone, living conditions,

dependents, etc

When roplion to the questionnalres havo boon

received, the ASTIK1/1 office will undertake an investigation

of each case.

It le contemplated that the investigatlong will

actually be carried out by Cuban social case workers of the

Refugee Center working under direction of a genior American

officinl of the lefugoe Contor.

For the purposes of this

investigation, the investigatore will operate as employees of

the AMlIKI/l nilice.

Station JANAVE 1a requested to attempt

CESSIS SAMEENOT 10

PEATCH SIPREDE AND MUMBLER

Tail f9 194-25

19-124-25/68 ANG 1055

UEGE 5346N

SECRBT

- WH/C/COPS

WH/C/ESEC

—RID Files

NIL/C/COPS

19-124-25

9:r1'.5

can 1749:

Аланов-іта

7264

•'i too! :

LiAil

picks text

Remove fram Frofect

• J09012

B6X:

--758/25

7o1d:

DATE

LASTA

•5: 53

L'DE PRENOUSIDITIEN

DCHHD/C

Hart

/e:

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

BINGOL AND NUNEER

UFCH S346

to arrange: for this with the Mofugee Conter eithor on a free

or a reimbursable bogis.

Il cha lefued Center Is unablo to

provide thia personnol, JAVE will thou seek assistanco from

the Floride Himle Welfare augion Mis Ar. Cordon 3nlih vi the

Florida State Vocatlonal Achabilitation Uffice.

Station JaVAVE wil) also utilizo ta Independont

Assota to run

bank and cindit chocke

to supplenent the inuagtl

, Bations conducted by the soedal workore.

4.

Tho Anerican soclal worker fron the Refugee Center

will, in conjunction

with the AlDUl, coso officer, preparo

Individual recommondatlong for continuation or tormination of

assistanco using

the rosulta of the investigation and the

credit and bank checks.

In general, the criteria to be used

for recommending termination or continuation of benefits will

be the following:

A. Widows who have remarried or who have contracted

stable common law marriages,

will normally not be eligible

for further benefite.

If these womon have minor children,

these will continue to recolve benefite at a scale to be

dotermined.

3. Parente of Brigade and/or "Horoes and Martyre"

dead are to bo evaluated for further agsistance on the basta

of other income, age and health.. Recommendationg in each cago.

wll be governed by individual circumstances.

Other relatives or porsong recolving depondency

benefits will be recommonded for tormination

except in casoe

of demonstrable hardship.

Minor children will continuo to

receive assistance until age 18.

When the investigations and

recommendations have been

cumpleled, Siation Jwayk will forward these to Headquarters

which will, 1f warranted,

make appropriate proposals to the

303 Committee for authority to carry out the recommendations.

Edward D. SABETAY

Distribution:

2 - COS, JAWAVE

BUS NO

2

B.00

U8K3=178+2

---

