# 104-10012-10018

## Page 1

1104-10012-10018

att c

B iviay 1787

MEVORANDUM NO. 2

SUBJECT

: GARRISON and the Kennedy Assassination

REFERENCE : CI/R&A Memorandum of 26 April 1967,

subject an above

1. An offort has beea made to Identify all CIA employees in New

Orleans, so that we shall have a ready checkliat if Diatrict Attorney

GARRISON makes statements about any of them to the premo, attempte to

bring charges against ther or to subpoena them, or take other action

disadvantageou to CIA. This list, because of ita sensitivity, is inciuded

as Enclosure 28 with only those coples of this memorandom which are

addressed to the ADDP and the Legal Counsel.

2.0

The remaining enclosures to this memorandum constitute an

alphabetteal listing of key figures in the case to date. One person, an

Izvestla correspondent who appears as Enclosure 4 to reference, has

been dropped as peripberal.. Encloures 5, 10, 21, 23 and 24 to kais

memorandum are additions to the earlier liat.

Negative trace entries

("RI - no record") are repeated from reierence as appropriate. Of the

26 persons and one firm listed in the carrent encloure, tracing has been

completed on 19. It in expected that results on the remaining I will be

available abortly.

3. Information from WH/Cuban Operationa Branch, prepared in

response to reference, will be available soon and will be included in the

next report. The New Orleans office of the Domestic Contact Service in

clipping and forwarding pertinent itema from the local press.

SECRET

Zaanni des aalamalie

towngrading sad

declassificattoa

---

## Page 2

13-00000 -

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

SUBJECT : Dean Adams ANDREWS, J.

Enclosure l

1.

RI - no record.

2. Additional iniormation follows:

a.

The New Orleans States-Item of 3 March 1967 reported

that ANDREWS had said that he did not know whether Clay SHAW and

Clay BERIRAND were the same person.

b.

An article in the New Orleans Times Picayune of 19

April 1967 concerns a $100, 000 suit brought by Dean Adams ANDREWS,

JI., against GARRISON, who had previously indicted ANDREWS for

perjury. ANDREWS claima that he has told GARRISON "that there

was no connection between Clay SHAW and Clay BERIRAND"'.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

SUBJECT:

1.

2.

Sergio ARCACHA Smith

RI - no record.

No additional information,

Enclosure 2

---

## Page 4

13-00000

APPAO: 2D FOR 9212A38 1992

CLA HESTORICAL REVIEN FROGRAM

SUBJECT : Guy BANISTER

Enclogure 3

1.

RI: CSCI-3764414, 30 March 1961, reported Subject as a

former FEI member, owner of a detective agency in New Orleans, and a

member of Friends of Democratic Cuba, Inc.

No new information.

Subject is dead.

-SECRET

---

## Page 5

13:00000

Enclosure 4

SUBJECT:

Leslie Norman BRADLEY (201-727878)

1.

RI: An examination of BRADLEY's 201 flle shows him to be

a soldier of fortune and free-lance pilot who was arrested by the Cubar

G-2 in Havana on 24 May 1960. Held on the Isle of Pines, BRADLEY

collaborated with his captors in all respects. He lured the Nicaraguan

leader, Chester LACAYO, to Cuba ao that he could be arrested. BRADLEY

is an unscrupulous adventurer who will do anything for money. After his

release and return. to the U.S. he approached the families of several men

still on the Isle of Pines with requests for funds allegedly to be used to

liberate the prisoners. He was briefly considered for employment as a

co-pilot in Project ZRCLIFF and filled out a personal information forts,

but the offer of employment was cancelled.

2.

No further information from other sources.

SEBRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Arpeelion Ferrer too: 1382

=

.: JRAM

Enclosure 5

SUBJECT

Edward S. BUTLER

2.

3.

See Paragraph 7.a. of reference.

RI traces in progress.

No additional information to date.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

APFROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HIETORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclogure 6

SUBJECT:

Carlos Jose BRINGUIER

RI: DBA-55777, 25 October 1963, lists BRINGUIER, from

1934,

as a businessman, Cuban, living in New Orleans at 501 Adele Street,

Apartment I, and as director of the Cuban Student Directorate for the

New Orleans area.

2.

No additional information to date.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1952

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT : Vernon BUNDY

1.

Ri- no recoId.

2. No further information.

Enclosure 7

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SESHLT®

AFPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclosure R

JUBJECT :

Julio or Julien BUZNEDO

1.

2.

RI - no record.

No further information.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SUBJECT :

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

David William FERRIE

Enclosure 9.

1.

2.

RI - no identifiable traces.

No additional substantive information. Subject is dead.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SEtT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1942

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT : Alberto FOWLER

2.

3.

See Paragraph 7.b. of reference.

RI traces in progress.

No further information.

Daclosure 10

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SUBJECT :

SEnO

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 199Z

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Manuel GARCIA Gonzalez

1.

RI- no traces.

2. No further iniormation.

Enclosure ll

---

## Page 13

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CE HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclosure 12

SUBJECT:

James GARRISON

1. RI: Tracing continuing.

2. The following additional information has been obtained since

reference:

a.

The New Orleans States-Item of 3 March 1967 stated that

New York radio station WINS said that it had learned from reliable

sources that GARRISON believes that President Kennedy was

assassinated by "a group of plotters directed from Cuba." WINS

reporter Doug Edelson said that the source has access to GARRISON's

files and that, according to the files, "after an abortive CIA invasion

of Cuba, Castro put out an execution order on the President. "

b. A memorandum of l May 1967 by Mr. Richard H.

Lansdale, Associate General Counsel, advises that GARRISON

"Intends to demand that CIA furnish him with the photograph of Oswald

eptering or exiting the Mexico City Embasay, "

c.

James Phelan is the author of the lead article in the

Saturday Evening Post of 6 May 1967, beaded "A Plot to Kill Kennedy?

Rush to Judgment in New Orleans''. The following key points chiefly

concera GARRISON:

(1) Phelan knew GARRISON in 1963, when he spent

ten days with bim, obtaining material for a laudatory piece

called, "The Vice Man Cometh"'.

(2)

GARRISON and Phelan met in Las Vegas on 5 and

6 Maren 1967, and Phelan conducted ten hours of interviews.

GARRISON gave Phelan a memorandum of an interview con-

ducted with Perry RUSSO by Andrew J. SCIAMBRA, "a 31-yeaI-

old assistant D.A. just a year out of law school" who interviewed

RUSSO for three hours and took copious notes. GARRISON also

gave Phelan a transcript of what RUSSO said four days later, on

1 March 1967, while under hypnosis. The SCIAMBRA report

SEGRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

rade no mention si a plot among OSWALD, TERRIE, and

SHIAW So kill anyone. The 3, 5uJ-word roport also made no

reierence to a party at FRRIE's apartment. it did not

contain a positive identification oi Lee Harvey OSWALD as

"Leon" OSWALD. Shown a picture of Clay SHAW, RUSSO had

not identified him as 'BERTRAND". The SCIAMSRA Ieport

speciried that RUSSO had seen SHAW only twice. It did not

say that SHAW knew OSWALD.

(3) On 27 February 1967, according to a second

SCIAMBRA report, RUSSO was given sodium pentothal and

then did make passing reference to the party at which the

plot was discused", but did so only aiter prompting by

SCIAMBRA, who wrote, "I then asked him if he could remem-

ber any of the details about Clay Bertrand beinz up in FERRIE's

apartment. "

(4) Iwo days later DI. Esiond FATTER placed

RUSSO under hypnosis (he did so three times in all). When

RUSSO made no mention of a party or plot, FATTER directed

him to see "a picture of FERRIE's apartment and there are

several people in there and there is a white-haired man. Tell

me about it. " RUSSO complied but made no mention of SHAW,

"BERTRAND", or a plot. FATTER then ordered him to see

this picture: "There will be Bertrand, Ferrie and Oswald and

they are going to discuss a very important matter and there is

another man and girl there and they are talking about assassina-

ting somebody. Look at it and describe it to me." RUSSO

then told the atory that be subsequently gave in testimony.

(5) Phelan advised GARRISON of the profound differences

between the first SCIAMBRA report and the eventual RUSSO

testimony, GARRISON permitted Phelan to question SCIAMBRA

directly, in GARRISON's presence. SCIAMBRA said that he

must have forgotten to include the party and its participants.

When Phelan suggested consulting his original notes, SCIAMBRA

said that he had burned them.

Phelan asked Dr. FATTER

where he got the information used in questioning RUSSO under

hypnosis, and FATTER said it came from GARRISON's office.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

Seone,

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT:

Pascual GONGORA

1. RI - No record.

2. No further information.

Enclosure l3

---

## Page 16

1:3-00,000

Enclosure 14

SUBJECT : Nerin Emrullah GUN

(201-097525)

RI: The 201, listed above, will be studied. GUN, born

22 February 1920 in Rome, is a suspected CP member who has been

involved in Europe in espionage and falsification of documenta.

2.

No other additional information since reference.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1392

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

SURECT

Williar. SURVICH

RI - No record.

So additional iniormalisa.

Enclosure 15

---

## Page 18

13-00000

sami !

SUBIECI

:

SESTET

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

S.M, KAUFTROTA

CacioGire 13

z.

RI - ilo recorz.

No further incornation.

SEGRET

---

## Page 19

13-00000

APPROVES FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

SUBJECT :

2.

David F. LEWIS

RI - No record..

No furtber information.

-SOF

Enclosure 17

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SUBJECT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992.

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Layton Patrick MARIENS

1.

Z.

RI - No record.

No further information,

Enclosure 13

---

## Page 21

13-00000

SUBJECT :

AFPROVED FOR RELEASE 1902

Baclosure 19

CLA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Mrs. Lillie McMANES

(i/w Sanára MOFFETT, enclosure No. 13 of reference)

1.

RI - No record of Sandra MOFIETT. Traces are being run

on Mrs. Lillie MeMAINES.

2. The New York Times of 27 April 1967 stated, 'A fugitive from

justice complaint . filed against Mrs. Lilie viclaines: was dismissed

in Municipal Court Tuesday aiter she refused to leave Iowa to appear in

court.

---

## Page 22

13-000,00

SUBJECT :

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA HISTORICAL REMEW FROGRAM

Gordon Duane NOVEL

Inclosure 20

1. RI - No record.

2. The following additional information has been obtained since

the date of reference:

a.

The New Orleans Times Picayune of-19 April 1967 states

that Gordon Duane NOVEL (see Enclosura 19 of reference), then living

in Columbus, Obio, was the subject of extradition charges signed

17 April 1967 by Acting Governor C.C. Aycock. The chaiges concern

conspiracy to burglarize the munitions bunker at Houma, Louisiana,

in 1961. On 18 April 1967 NOVEL stated in an article copyrighted by

the Dallas Dally News that GARRISON is conducting his probe to

further his political career. "The whole GARRISON investigation

thing is fiction," NOVEL added.

"I know the full story from working

as the prosecutor's security chiei." GARRISON, howevet, has said

that NOVEL never worked for him. NOVEL added, "I think GARRI-

SON will expose some CIA operations in Louisiana."

b.

The New Orleans States-Item of 25 April 1967 states that

NOVEI, "has told a nurber of friends and intimates he was a CIA

operative and will use this role to battle GARRISON's charges . • •

if he is returned to New Oleans to face accusations that he burglarized

an oil service company's munitions buaker in nearby Terrebone

Parish," Steven PLOTKIN, attorney for NOVEL, refused to confirm

or deny his client's statements. Sergio ARCACHA Smith (see Ea-

closure 2 of reference) is also accused by GARRISON of helping to

plan the theft of the munitions. The article adds, "To friends and

associates, NOVEL has said that the munitions burglary was no

burglary at all - but a war materials pickup made at the direction

of his CIA contact, " He bas described the Houma bunker as a CIA

cache for munitions destined for use in the April 1961 invasion at the

Bay of Pigs. NOVEL has claimed that he worked for CIA in New

Orleans before April 1961. "Part of his job, he contends, was to

operate the Evergreen Advertising Agency as a front for CLA

communications.

With funds funneled to him by the CIA, NOVEL

---

## Page 23

13-00Q,00

...

says be prepazed special radio commercials used on 300 stations

in the U.S. and Canada. Their cryptograpbic messages, he claims,

were to alert agents to the invasion date.. The commercials adver

tised aluminum Christmas trees, he says, and the key alert code

names were 'Star Chriatmas Irees' and 'Holiday Trees'. In late

1960, $72, 000 worth of radio time was placed by the agency. On the .

day the munitions were to be picked up, be says, he was called by his

CIA contact and told to join a group which was ordered to transport

munitions from the bunker to New Orleang.•. • He says be made

the trip in his own automobile, a Lincoln, and met several people

there - all of ther allegedly acting for the CIA.. He identifies

them as FERRIE, ARCACHA, several Cubans, and another figure in

the case. Thay loaded the boxes of ordnance on trucks, he continues,

and returned to New Orleans where the explosives were dropped in

three spots - FERRIE's home, NOVEL's office building, and the

office of.. • former FBlagent. • • Guy BANISTER. Ysee Enclosure

3 of reference). NOVEL claims the munitions were eventually taken

by boat to Cuba for a diversionary Bay of Pigs operation, GARRISON,

however, says the burglary occurred three months after the Bay of

Pigs. He adds that the Houma bunker was leased by the Schlumberger

Well Services Co. cl Houston, Texas. "Schlumberger officials say

they know nothing of any CIA operations in connection with their

magazine, where oil field service equipment and certain low-yield

explosives are stored. "

An AP wire dispatch of 26 April 1967 from New Orleans

adds, "In Columbus, NOVEL said today that 'the statements that I

worked for the CIA are absolutely incorrect... The events of

1961, the Bay of Pigs invasion, are sone of anybody's business,

including MI. GARRISON'g. *"

3. RI has no record of the Evergreen Advertising Agency. There

is, however, a record of "Evergreen Interpriae, " listed as "cover for

illegal activities". The pertinent document will be obtained and studied.

2

---

## Page 24

13-00000

FORET

APPROVEE FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT : Carlos QUIROGA

1.

See para. 7c of reference.

2. RI - traces in progress.

3. No further information.

Inclosure 21

---

## Page 25

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1952

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclosure 22

SUBJECT : Perry RUSSO

1.

RI - no record.

Additional information appears in Enclosure 12, above.

SE0)

---

## Page 26

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1932

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

Enclosure 23

SUBJECT : Emilio SANTANA

1.

See para. Ye of reference.

2. Ri - traces are in progress.

3. No further information.

GEORET

---

## Page 27

13-00000

SECT

APPAVID FOR FILEASE 19223

CIA HISTORICAL REVEW PROCRAN

2aslosure 24

50121 =

The SCHLUMBERGER wall Surrying

Corporation

Thore are suenair CIA traces on this company and ou

11r1008 persons connacted with il, but none of tia laformation 1a

partie: so the GARRISON vestigation.

i report al 20 April 1957 from the Now Orleans oifice

ot sa IDl aratos that s contidential source wo la a reprosentative

of a woll-110n news media noid on 20 April that Corder NOVEL

has reportadly stated that he was erployed by Cur and that the

Houma burglary vas not an actual bargiary. He contendei that Cl

had an arrangement ith the SCHLONSSROTR S0 (008 beL 10

nep ammmiden, bano cariago, and other materiai la the ker,

leased by SCHLUMBEROZa. He aid that he and Jargis ARCACHA

Smith were still employed by CIA, "The source aurined that accord

ing to information devaloped to dato Schlumberger became epset

0rar pha Bay al Piga Invasion 11d wanted to get our of their contrac:

wise the ClA. Arrangemonis were made about thres months aiter

the 13v510010r the aerial to be taken out by Norol and hi

The Domestic Contact SerICE (DOS) Lairued CI/REA

on 27 AprI 1967 that the Nor Orleans oifice of the SCHLUMBSRGER

Well Sarveying Corporation la a branch of the nais oldes in Houstor,

Tess!. The company, howorer, is trench-orned. The DeS vifice.

in New Orlazas was ln toach with Charles 1. DOH, district manages

Di the Nes Crleans SCHLOMBBROEl allier, in order to laterrier bim

about a business trip to Romo la Juse 1955, There has bees no subse

quent contact. Howevar, the Jus bas been and still la in touch with

---

## Page 28

13-00000

32ONET

ÜGHLUMSERGER and Co, in Houston and subsidiary viices else-

whars. The most recen of such contacia occurred on 12 March

1067 in Minneapolis. All couts muat do approved by the rada

SCH UMBERGER office. Because of I reach contrul, Dus dealings

with tha firm have boen circumspocs.

Ibe Office of Security also advised on 27 i pril 1967 that

jentiaring 0l fon employeen d the Clice of Logistcs baa shows

that the caly arm bunker is the New Coleans ares aded by ciA was

the Belle Chasse Anmunile Depol, a deactivated Navy installation

•ighe milos from New Oslease, Flere la no present reason to bollave..

that the Agency has been ansociated in any way with the Horma Alr

Base busin

---

## Page 29

13-00000

ANTONYED FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA MISTONICAL RENEW ROGARME

Enclosure 25

SUBJICT : Clay L. SHAW (201-813493)

Summary of RI file appears in Enclosure ZI to

1.

reference.

2.

The New Orleans States - Item of 2 March 1967

reported the arrest on 1 March of Clay L. SHAW and his release

on bond. The article described SHAW as "a decorated Army

major in World War Il...."

3.

The New Orleans States - Item of 3 March 1967 said

that SHAW had said that he had never used the name Clay

BERTRAND, that he had never mat FERRIE, that he had never

conspired to assassinate the Presidant, and that he had never

known OSWALD.

---

## Page 30

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1952

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAFI

SUBJECT:

1.

Edward Stewart SUGGS, alias

JackS. MARTIN

RI - no record.

2. No further information.

Enclosure 26

---

## Page 31

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT : Miguel Silva TORRES

1.

RI - no record.

2. No further information.

Enclosure 27

---

## Page 32

13-00000

Enclosure 28.

It has been dete mined that the following components and

individual employees of CIA are currently based in New Orleans

or, as noted separately, were there in late 1963.

New Orleans office of Domestic Contact Service:

#.

Mr. Lloyd A. Ray.

b.

M3. Hunter Leake.

c.

Misa Dorothy Brandao.

d. MI. G.D. Geisenbeimer.

•. Misa Gertrude Nagel.

(Miss Jeanne Fernandez was also employed by

this office as of November 1963, the time of the

assassination.)

2. Office of Persomel:

Mr. William Wood, a recruites stationed in

Waco, Texas, covered the New Orleans area in 1963.

3. WH/6:

Mr. William Kent, presently in New Orleans

has as office cover the

1. Office of Security:

Mr. Chester Bolling has

cover-

SEGRET

---

