# 104-10250-10080

## Page 1

1104-10250-10080/

27 January 1965

MINORANDU: FOR:

Jin O'Connor, TSD/Sacurity

SUBJECT:

Contact with Herman E. Kimsey - Jan Beck, TSD/GARB

sipo

1. As you requested at our meeting on 25 January, I have prepared

this summary of my contact with Mr. Kimsey since he left the Agency

in August, 1962.

2. My contact with k. has been via the telephone, except for a

couple of occasions when I had lunch with him or he visited Chief, GARB

in Central Building. I connot recall ever calling him, but his calls

to me have been mostly to the office and only a few to my home.

3. With a few exceptions his

reason

for calling seems to have

been non-specific; he just wanted to chat.

Often he would open the

convers-tion with the gambit of asking for someone's telephone extension,

nore then once for

„estonsion, or for Dick Kuhn's hore

address.

Sometimes he would call my attention to something interesting

he had read in the paper about some new technique, some mutual friend, etc.

associal The to d on to be picking for inforiation about old

and Dick Kuhn: how they were doing and

what they were doing nowadays, and so on.

about the gora do go on directly cano, tot 10 g

Since I usually avoided

dialogue about his job plans, familt, mutual frierds outside the Agency,

and so on.

4. Several calls were about the one instance when I was directly

involved with him on a project. It pertained to a job opening which

I had heard about and wanted to pass on to him. It was as a document

examiner or a related job with the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office,

Portland, Oregon. He seaned interested in pursuing the possibility,

but in a recent conversation he had still not applied and did not seem

interested.

5.

The only other calls on a specific subject where those on

the subject of the Anastasia story, early in 1904, and on the Polish

colonel's claim,

22 January 1965.

On the Anastasia subiect he mentioned

his involvenent

in the case via Clave Backster and gave me the general

background as he saw it,

including a certain intrigue involving "Reds

working for 'life' magazine" and the Soviet and British intelligence

services pobably being in the background to protect their interests.

GROW 1

Excluded from automatic.

damngrading and

Geciassification

---

## Page 2

14-00000

6. Until 22 January hehad no: mentioned the subject of the

Polish colonel at all.

He called ne at home, and I innediately

tool: up the subject since I had road about his disclosures in the

paper a week earlier.

iThen I prodded him about baing in trouble

over the newspaper intorview, he appeared confident that he was not

in any trouble because he was "in daily contact with Agency people".

He further said that his purpose in the disclosure was to pry loose

fron: the Agency those documents which would help the colonel establish

his true identity.

But it was pretty obvious that k. was surpised by

the big play given the story in the paper.

In fact, he had even

considered calling the reporter and asking him to retract some

distortions - he did not say which - in the story, but on second thought

could not put his finger on any clear-cut error worth fighting over.

Other items fron the conversation:

if the colonel's claim is successful

k. and Cleve Backster would turn ovr any share of the fortune to

"the fund for pronioting the lie detector"

, except their expenses and

tine no: paid out of their om pockats; K. is convinced of the colonclis

clair to the fortune being legitinate.

He did not seem to be fishing for

infornation about the reaction in the Agency to the newspaper story.

A11

he said about it was to ask how Ion Thonas reacted. K. did give me the

inpression that he had examined some (identity?) docunents of the

colonel thon working for T3D/G/RB in 1961 (?) bacause he said that I

would recognize the nan's picture it I saw it. But he imediately changed

his mind and said "it was probably before your tine". "hen I asked him

if he asn't cursuing a matter which he only knew about fron his official

capacity in working for the Govurnment, he assured me that he had only

learned of the colonel's claim to be the son of the Czar late last year

(possibly he said at the time of the Presidential campaign). It the

end of the hour long conversation he stated the real reason for calling

and that was to tell me that the colonel was to be on television, the ll

o'clock nows on ABC/Chennel 7. This must have been a mistake on his part

because that news program is local and not a network progran from New York.

7. This sumnery is the best of my recollection; if you need

attitional information, I will be glad to fill in the gaps.

Tan Bick

éna: 38CK

T30/GARB/2DS

x-2009

SECRE I

---

