# 104-10433-10130

## Page 1

104-10433-10130

SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

I TENSON INIT NOTIFiRD

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

CLASSED MESSAGE

TOTAL COMES

SECRET

GHOUP t

8918658888118 AUTUTIE

(Wheri Filler les)

DECLASSIPIEAIIGA

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES [1 NO

ROUTING AND/OH INITIALS - SEEMIY

2

Crunct

5

10

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO...

BY-

AT:.

DISSEM BY.

ACTION

12

in PER

C/WH 2

50P. 127

XI RID COPY

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID CRET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

BRANCH O

•DESTROY SIG

DE1, D/DC1, DDP, ADDP, <S/IF,

AC12, SUSPESE C/WH, CDS TIESE

4005

Apid yDc8

8 AR 68 M87116

SECRET 081505Z APR 68 CITE

DIRECTOR

MHALPHA

REF

4004

(IN 86537) *

I. ACCORDING RUABBE-I MORNING 8 APRIL, FOUR. GROUPS TRYING GET

DEMONSTRATIONS GOING AGAINST AMEMBASSY KINGSTON BUT WITHOUT SUCCESS:

A.

GROUP OF LEFTISTS INCLUDING WINSTON MONROE ARE IN CONTACT

WITH AMERICAN BLACK POWER MAN WHO ARRIVED LAST WEEK (NOT XNOWN IF

BEFORE OR AFTER ASSASSINATION DOCTOR KINGS. THIS GROUP SAME AS ONE

MENTIONED REF, PLANNED SEND SMALL DELEGATION TO AREA AMEMBASSY

AROUND NOON 8 APRIL TO SEE IF AWYTHING COULD BE STARTED. THE

AMERICAN BLACK POWER MAN WITH THEM IS SAYING THAT WITH GOJ FULL OUI

IN PUBLIC SYMPATHY WITH DR. KING, WILL BE DIFFICULT TO GET ANYTHING

GOING. RUABBE-I COMMENTED IT UNCERTAIN IF THIS GROUP WILL TAKE

ANY ACTION.

B. LEROY INNIS, PRESIDENT OF THE GUILD OF UNDERGRADUATES. OF

UNIVERSITY OF WEST INDIES (UWIS TRIED GET UWI STUDENTS GO ON

DEMONSTRATION BUT WITHOUT SUCCESS. (COMMENT: STUDENTS ON VACATION

AND NOT SCHEDULED RETURN TO CLASSES UNTIL TUESDAY 9 APRIL SO ARE

FREE FOR ACTION IF SPARK CATCHES).

Co PRINCE: BUSTER, LOCAL LEADER OF BLACK MUSLIM MOVEMENT, IS

FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT

RELEASE CLI

BY DOC

- 0126

RET

86 WIt/

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CABLE SECRETAHIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

When Filled In)

BOTAGADDING ALE

PIGBASDINICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: D YES O NO

7

3

9

10

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO...

aY:

AT!.

DISSEM BY

ACTION

_PER

RID COPY

X-REF TO FILE NO.-

FILE RID D RET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

VR,

BRANCH D

DESTROY O] sIG.

PAGE 2

4DD5 SECRET

AWAITING WORD FROM MUHAMMED ALI, BLACK MUSLIM LEADER IN U.S.A. AND

IBS. NO. ACTIVE PLANSFER. ORGANIZING UNDER WAY.

D. MORIIMER PLANER, RASTAFARIAN WHO PARTICIPATED IN

DEMONSIRAIION AGAINST. BRITISH HIGH COMMISSION OVER RHODESIAN

HANGINGS, HAS CONTACIED SOME STUDENTS AND MEMBERS OF HIS OWN

FOLLOWING THESE SIUDENIS REPORTEDLY SAID THEY WOULD

BACK PLANER. HOWEVER,., NO INFO AVAILABLE ON TIMING OR STATUS

PLANERS EFFORTS

20 ABOVE.. PASSED. AMBASSADOR. RUABBE-!

| SAID HAS AGENIS MONITORING

ABOVE AGIIVITIES AND WILL ADVISE ANY DEVELOPMENIS AFFECTING REF.

SE CR. ET.

BT

C/S Comment: * Report of possible demonstrations on 8 April because of Dr. King

assassination

ii?!:.:

SECRET

---

