# 104-10126-10253

## Page 1

104-10126-10253 •

d...

""'

Tensen ony

• Journal - Office of Legislative CounschRETURNTO GIA

Page 3

Wednesday - 28 June

1978

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

7. (Secret - MMP) LIAISON Julie Hetzel, NSA, called to

advise

us that a letter was coming over from asA to bye Milier,

Acting legislative, Counsel, on the subject of the leak of NSA's

ability to read

diplomatic traffic.

She said that the

Ictter states that NSA has no objection to the Director's

provision of NSA's damage assessment to the House Permanent

Select Committee on Intelligence.

The letter goes on to state

that NSA does not feel that it would be appropriate to reveal.

the names of Congressmen and staff who are aware of NSA'S

capability to read

diplomatic traffic inasmuch as the

Attorney General is investigating the leak.

8. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called Luch Johnson,

House Reen on formato prote do soline cast barteor

to advise

Polvement Men wray me cy has no past present substantire

This was in responsc to a previous

request from Johnson.

I also asked Johnson how much information

he wished us to provide him on the Agency's relationship with

public television.

He indicated that

he is only interested in

a brief sketch of

what kinds of relationships the Agency nay have

had with public television and I passed this requirement on to

Ms. Black.

9.

(Confidential • DFM) LIAISON Received a call from

Ed Greissing, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff,

regarding the House Select Conmittce on Assassinations request

for access to Church Committee transcripts of testimony by

Agency employees.

I asked him to send led Shackley's

testimony to

me so he could review it before giving approval.

I reminded him

that Mr. Sanchez had asked that his testimony

not be shown and that that should be considered the final

Agency response.

10. (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Called Earl Eisenhower, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who mentioned he would

like the briefing on counterintelligence to be presented to

the Committee during the first week of August. I later picked

up a letter from Eisenhower on this subject.

We confirmed

tomorrow's briefing

of four Committee staff members to cover

the Martha Peterson case, specifically the allegations of

poison pills; the discovery of the antenna in the chimney of

the Moscow Embassy;

and the Shevchenko case.

Eisenhower

repeated his earlier request to Lyle Miller, Acting Legislative

counsel, for a trip to NPIC to viewWrangel Island which is part

of the USSR but which some U.S. citizons claim really belongs to

Eisenhower had vieved maps of the Island but wants

to

see photographs as none of the maps are more recent that len

ycars old. I agreed to try to

set this meeting up for Friday,

20437

DECOND USE ONLE

---

