# 104-10268-10001

## Page 1

110410268-10001

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PROHIBITED

1. Memorandum for Winston m. SCOTT, dated 13 October

1966; Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

2. Note, undated, regarding contacts of ALFEREV.

Director, Plans,

OSWALD with

Department.

4.

Subject:

25 November 1964;

FOIA No. 928-9271

5.

Memorandum for Deputy Assistant Secretary for

Security

Department of State,

dated 16 September

1969; Subject:

Charles William THOMAS. [FOIA No. 1133-992]

5. CSCt 3/779,814, dated 30 January 1964; Subject: Jac

L. RUBY - Lee Harvey OSWALD.

PARI-1731 (IN 73050), 4 December 1963 [FOIA No.

298-697]

8.

Note to Richard HELMS.

dated 23 March 1964, regarding

briefing at Allen DULLES' home on 4 March 1964.

[FOIA 618-793]

Memorandum of Conversation, dated 16 January 1964;

Subject:

CIA Work in Support of the Warren Commis

[SX-11057 - FOIA No. 482-193]

CSCI-3/779,135 to FBI, dated 16 December 1963; Subject:

Peter

DERYABIN's Comments on the Kennedy Assassination.

[FOIA No. 413-76A]

Memorandum for J.

Lee RANKIN, dated 5 June 1964;

Subject:

Allegations Regarding Intelligence Training

School in Minsk, USSR. [FOIA No. 726-314

XAAZ-17620]

12.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN,

dated 31 March 1964;

Subject:

Reports on Activities and Travel of Lee

Harvey

OSWALD and Marina Nikolevna OSWALD. [FOIA No. 627-821]

13.

DIR-92725, 6 January 1964 [FOIA No. 456-771]

14.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 6 March 1964

Subejct:

Lee Harvey

[FOIA 590-

LET ONE ON 22200g arding

•, 1963

15.

Note from HELIED

16.

Memorandum for

RUnubilED & March 1964

dated 20 February

1964;

Subject:

Documents Availablé in OSWALD's 201 File.

[FOIA No. 563-810]

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 23 July 1964;

Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

[DDP 4-3769]

CSC1-3/778,881 to FBI, dated 27 November 1963;

in

Mexico

City, 13 - 24 November 1963. [FOIA No. 187-622]

19.

DIR 85246, 26 November 1963 [FOIA No. 113-48]

20.

MEXI-7045. (IN 67281), 24 November 1963 [FOIA No.

78-5591

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEGRET

-2 .

REPRODUCTION

21.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January

PROHIBITED

Subject:

Ja the Activity

of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 September

3 October 1963. [FOIA No. 509-8031

22.

Memorandum for DC/OPS, dated 23 May 1975; Subject:

Review of Se

File Regard DiSted Items

in the Lee Harvey OSWALD

Involvement RERRODUCTIOR

a CASTRO

Assassination.

23.

dated 15 May 1964;

Subject:

Delligence Service

of that Service

to the Assassination of President Kennedy.

[XAAZ-36307 - FOIA No. 697-294]

24.

Note dated 10 April 1964 listing material from P-8593

shown to Warren Commission.

[FOIA No. 653-828]

25.

Brief for Presentation to President's Commission on

the Assassination of President Kennedy, 14 May 1964.

[XAAZ-27212 - FOIA No. 695-302A]

26.

Memorandum for ROCCA, dated 12 May 1964. [XAAZ-22809

FOIA No. 689-298]

27. Letter to E. Henry KNOCHE, dated 15 April 1975.

28.

Memorandum to Chief, CI/RaA, dated

Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD

TAL-27160 - 191A NO.

739-319]

29.

Memorandum for Deputy Director for Plans, dated 11

May 1964; Subject:

AMMUG/1 Information

on Lee Harvey

OSWALD. [XAAZ-27213 - FOIA Np. 687-295]

30.

Blind Memorandum,

dated 5 May 1964; Subject: Debriefing

of AMMUG/1 - OSWALD Case.

31.

Chronology of RGR Meetings with Members of the Warren

Commission

[XAAZ-27161]

32.

Memorandum for the Record, dated 1 April 1975; Subject:

CoNTAL REPRODUCTION

BELIN, 1 April 1975.

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

Rocca Deposition PROMABIED

1 aprills, me.

a Reend, R. Rosca

WDIR 92125

24 Naples

805067281

5May oy fdebriefing: AMMUs/

11 May 44, F017 687-295

19 JunoGy, F014 739-319

15 April 15, letter from Belin to Knoche

23 May?S, Rocca neme enLito file

6

7

8

9

10

12

13

1Y

15

160

17

1o April04

sMay @9 1094 697-794

zI Febl

50IA 559-243

22 Nau.63U, DIR 85573

1 apar64, Coleman-Slawson nem

#:??"

15 Apricon, Coleman-Smusan nam

- Juracet, Helmsmen toRenkin

17

3/591a 64, FOlA 509 - 803

2=

24NOU 64, FOIA 78 - 559

÷: "

}1

26 NoV 63, F014 113-48

22 27 NOvO3, FOrA

187-622

23

2. Feb 64, FOLK

1563-80

2Y

6 Marche?

5910 - 252

2027

25

OYA

456 - 771

26

31 March

627-871.

27

5 Jand

726-314

25

16 Dec63

Esti

=3/34,

135.

Fold 413-76A

235

29

1L Jandt, FolA 482-193

30

23 Mark G4, ForA 618- 783

00C1874

480463

F01t 298-697

36 Sandey, CSe 3779984

1133-992

REPRODUC THON

PROHIBITED

" PAGE

COrY

1 0212

NO.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

=1 tye

3L.

737.

REPRODUCTION

25 N0r 645%2

23 NoU 63 FOIm

925-927

34-839

PROHIBITEO

130CF 66

cenoferson

12, Fereis te LüiSestt

office of Sécuensta

Summiny Repor to.f.

cit polg

Wof Gilberto Alvard

Ugarte

sisse dù nerng ne

PROMD

0ff throughos

COC1875

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

2

COPY

NO.

os 212

---

## Page 5

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET EYES

Arri

Love

PONLY

1 April 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with David W. BELIN, 1 April 1975

Q:

A:

Q:

:

A:

un working lover of repring a i trang the pete on sere?

It was a multiple leveled thing

"(a) from the Commission and AWD

personally via McCone to Dick Helms" (b) from Helms to the two or

three components primarily concerned fsE, then SB, Dave Murphy;

LA, then WH; and Cbi In practice, the substantive SB input worked

Ip by one of its

research components headed by Lee Wigren-Minsk

photo for example, et alO-passéd via CI. CI had own defector input.

In addition, on sensitive matters of concern to the investigation,

Dick Helms and Murphy also dealt directly with the Commission. PROf:

Did you hear:

?? [two crypts, one sounded by "Jackenet" ?].

I had not.

Belin recalled that Castro had made a speech in which

he had charged assassination intent by emigres and had promised

retribution in kind if there was official support.

Had any thought been given to the assumption that an anti-Castro

assassination plot might have been underway, and fact it was

known

to Helms and to Castro? [Mr.

Belin said he now knew that Helms

was, in fact, aware of something underwas regarding Castro.

had

He

no evidence to show that I RGR had been informed about it.

Would that change any of the thinking re

Oswald's Mexican trip and

contacts?

Yes, I said, though I_intended to

give more potential importance

to Oswald's KGB. contacts, and related that I and athers--though

recognizing the wisdom of the Warren Commission's handling--had

felt there had been fewere the sowet aspect that should have

been pursued:

Fact that his two Sovtet consular contacts in Mexico City

had been identified as KGb and at least one (both ?) had

been

traced organizattoratty to the 13th Department (assassinations).

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 055431

SECRET EYES ONLY

CC 1876

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

#

PAGE

COPY NO.

3 01212

2552

---

## Page 6

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SUBJECT: Conversation with David W. BELIN, I April 1975

Q:

b. Our defector information strongly insists that all

Western militars derectors:

POke Oswald-were screened by the

13th Department.

c. Thinness of file turned over by Soviets in view of b.

I acknowledged in retraspect that cuban hypathesis was worth recon-

sidering,

though it would appear that period of solid inter-service

(KGB-UGT) relations began later, (i.e. after 1967-68, Venceremos, etc.).

Why did Oswald's Ties include a denial to Dallas police that he had

made the Mexican trip unless there was something important to hide

about it? All his other lies concerned key factual elements of his

cover story.

why also did Marina deny she knew anything about the

Mexican trip in her first story do the FBI-which she later rectified

before the Warren Commission? Mr. Belin noted that he had left the

hypothesis of Castro/Cuban involvement opem in his book.

He added

that it would have been important to have known the facts about the

anti-Castro plot at the time of the Warren Commission investigation.

He felt the least he woubd have doneswould have been to have

on the polygraphing

oR Marina @swald regarding her knowledge of

Oswald's Mexican trip.

Raymond G. Rocc

Counter Intelligence Operations

2

SECRET EYES ONLY

• COC1877

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

NO.

- 0$212

---

## Page 7

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

X:4Z-:7161

rubers of the

Warten Commission

14 January 1964

12 March 1964

27 March 1964

26 May 1964

28 August 1964*

12 October 1964

RANKIN, WILLINS

RANKIN

WILLINS ET AL

(LIESLeR)

"LIEBLAND'Yre DeMohrenschild

"Commission" (Staissan)

"Commission"' (Slan

engellara Ma, Rocea was ar the cementation as least one other day

(probably Saturday, the 29th) vergewing proofs.

REPRO

I laughy, My.

241-289245

CC(1873

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

5 or 212

COPY NO.

# D2553

---

## Page 8

13-00000

REPKODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

5 H: 1904

Subject General:

Dobriefing of

106I Reacticing

Specific:

OSHALD CASES

Ter

TEE SOURCE DOES NOT HAVE DIRE KEIOVIDGGLOE ISE HARVEY OSALLO ON HIS ACTIVIFIES

JUT AS MELE TO FROVIDE ITES OF INTEPAST BASEN ON COMMETS DE CURAN INTOILIGINCI

CFFICERS ASUICNED TO THE DIRECCION MARLE DE INCETIGERCLA, UF WHICH THE SOURCE

RISHIT WAS A STAFF OFTICER-

THE IITORMNIION APPEARING BELOW WAS FURNISHED BL

THE SOUFCE AND IS KEYED TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED EY KUDESK®

11th Ivisa CArDERON, Manu] VAlA Peras and Rogalto RODRIGUEZ IODAI-

VECA those Cuban Intelligence pseudoryn 1S MARCOS is the current

Cuban IS chie? in ladco. He racentat gas had a hour af duty in Habana, prior

to which he held the sace post aa Gowas Cuban Is chiar in iardco.

RODPIGUEZ 13 a Cuban

He has three Cusa

Intelligance pseudonyug

Anjo end jose Antonio,

The precise rolationship

Of Luisa CALDERON to tha Dal 19 nos clamo

Sha coon't about six months In Mexico fron which she retumed to Cuba carly in

19640

COaT: WI/SA/CI has the Lollowing raferences concerning Juisa

CUTERON Carralero: She was assigrad to the cormorcial office ci the Cuban

Encessy in Maxico City, and she had arrived in Mecdco en 16 Jamasy 1963 and

on 11 December 1963 nade a reservation to roturn to Cuba on Cubana Arlizes

ME 7371, 13 Lecember 1953 14:0035, Hit 3153," She laft Mexico City for

Havana on 15 Dacenber 1963 using passport 3/03/7 5151 7423, 1? December 1963,

II-02692. Another referencs mElA-20971, 25 Karch ISo3," said that ker date.of

arrival in toxico was 19 January 1963 and that sha had replaced resario Vazuez

a Ha¿car secretary in the commercial cérice.

Other raferences apparently cor

coming tua subjoct ary ints 6913 and ait 3205 Il-5657 dated 35 jamazy 1963

unich do not aspear to add anything of interest to that siren above.

2. The source does not Inow whether or not. the Cuban Serricas used OSWAI

17 ny az0n capacity or other mannera

30

When nema of the assagination of President Kennudy reached tire

ICI, 1t causad much comment concerning the fact SWiN had byen in the Cuban

SEORET

Exclanted in did eater

cristica

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

6

_ 01 212

COPY NO.

# D 2554

---

## Page 9

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

Eriosy in diacco. In addition, orla,a WorD losued ion all hoadquarterg and.

fiald afficers of tha Dil to sort and paciaga all documents according to theticor

say were Mir secreto" (vory 3sar6t)s:

firemant,

tions»

In addition, all travel bp DaI gliders and all I pouches were sus-

pardod comporarilyo

3, Hhen the nows that

chAth was the assassin reached the BEi,

vas no imodiato comment but, when fidel CasInO sposa en tolarision to dom

Cuban involvenon, there was considerable corant concerning will's git i

Lae Cuban incassy In Mexico. At this time VAla, who has baen mentioned praviously,

pid was in Guoa and cormented to a group ai cal stars ordicers that OSAiD nad come

to dio Cuban Incassy in Mesico to request s visa but had bean refused VARA did

not five any details and the subject vas not pursuade

It 13 not known nether Infomation on OSwAlDis visit to the Cuban

Consultie In lexico 1n September 1963 was relayed to any Cuban service,

5. It is not lean 1f the Cuban Intelligence servicos had contact vish

the lew Orlaanst Fat: Play for Cuba Cormittes.

The only Molina sho 19 recallad is "The ilook", the Cubm who as coa-

victed is New York Olty for the madar of a young sirl during a clash betreen

two Cuban groups.

The IGI star? officar who had been in th United Nationa 1r

Yes lority

SATISTAIN traTeled to Cuba with "Ihe Hoo's" and sith another Cuban

nomad CRIMEll and upon arrival in Cuba tried to obtain employment for both

Indiriduals. The rames Pedro Charles and Poter kito no bam significanco.

The reaction of Soriet officials In contact with the Cuban irtol11-

gence

services is not mown.

Nothing 1s know aboit Soviat proposals following tia news of Prasident

Kemedy's assassination.

3. The only fabsication known 13 the special natter by fidal CASTRO pro

riously mentioned,

10. Nothing is known about jack RUnEStEDi ata Jacie RUSE.

iI. Ice name Gilberso IOPS 13 not fantliar out, li he visited iii lead-

carters, a photograph of him possibly could be idertified.

OrALD's photo was seen in the nauspapers but nothing 1s krem about

hin othor than snat appeared in the press.

2

SEGRET

COC1880

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 10

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Proposed Questions of pâyald Case

1.

Was Ise Harvey OSWAID baown to the Cuban Intelligence services

before 23 November 19632

If so which service?

2..

Were the Cuben services

3. 2251705

suArD in eny agent capecity, or 1a

any other manner, before 23

Provenber 1953?

3.

What was the reaction of the Cuban intelligence services to news

of President Kennedy's assassination? To the news that OSMALD

was the assassin?

4.

Was Information on OSWArD's visit to the Cuban Consulate In lexico

City in September 1953, relayed to my Cuban service? If so, what

action was taken?

5.

Was there any contact between the Cuben intelligence services and

the New Orleans! Fair Play For Cuba Committee?

6. Has subject ever heard of Mario del ROSARIO Molina, or Pedro Charles

known also as "Peter"?

7.

Hoi did the Soviet officials in contact with the Cuben Intelligence

services react to news of the assassination?

8. Did the Soviets propose any type"of action or Investigation to the

Cuban Intelligence services IOllowing the news of President Kennedy's

assassination?

9.

Was any provocative material deliberately fabricated by the Cuben

services or others and sent to the United States to confuse the

Investigation of the OSWALD case?

10. Was Jeck RUBENSIIN ake Jack RUBY known to the Cuben Intelligence

services? If so, in what way?

11.

Does subject know a Gilberto LOPEZ who entered Mesico on Tovenber

23, 1963 at leuvo Lareão, Texes and four days later proceded to

Havana by special plane.

He was 23 years old and carried a

U.S. passport. He also had & Vesican. tourist permit. Develop

all inforuation you can on this individual.

12. Attached is a photograph of OSWALD, and a letter from Favana

which is self-explanatory for guidence of the case officer.

20

Under

circunstarces should the contests of the letter be made known

to the suoject. Tais information came from the Secret Service and

ГВІ.

SECRET

CO(1F81"

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

8

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 11

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

"TIAL

SECRET

ASSIFISE

ECT: (Optional)

VERNAL

,E ONLY

ROUTING AND REC

FROM:

Chief, CI/R&A

PLET

TO: (Offeer designation, roam mimber, and

building)

RECEIVED

7468

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

CON

RD SHEET

NO.

EXAAZ - 27213

DATE

11 May 1964

COMMENTS (Number soch comment to show from whom

Drom a line ocross column offer soch comment.)

FORWARDED

DDP

!!

Document Number 657-295

for FOlA Review on

• JUN 1976

FORM

610 USE PRONO

PREVIOUS

SECRET

(CONFIDENTIAL

+201-289248

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

COCIFER

UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

9

PAGE

COPY

NO.

os 212

#D 2555

---

## Page 12

13-00000

REPKODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLY

REPRODUGTION

PROMBNED

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:

• AMMUG/1 Information on

Lee Harvey OSWALD

#XAAZ-27213

11 May 1964

4-

itty.

1. This memorandum fa for information and for action.

The proposed lines of action are Indicated in paragraph 4.

2. AMMUG/ 1p Fhe Cuban Intelligence Service defector,

has produced information of Interest to the President's

Commission on the Vissassinatioh of President Kennedy. CI

Staff learned of AMMUG N

on'30 April. A questionnaire was

submitted by the Staff on I May(Attachment A). Mr. Swenson,

who is handling the AMMUG/1 debriefing, provided a reply on

5 May (Attachment 3) It was clear from Mr. Swenson's

summary that AMMUG/1 had information bearing on the

OSWALD relationship with the Cuban Embassy and Cuban

intelligence personnel in Mexico City, albiet his knowledge

was not that of a direct participant in matters affecting

OSWALD. A follow-up questionnaire was submitted to

AMMUG/1 on 6 May (Attachment C) MI. Swenson's reply

was dated 8 May (Attachment D). Attention is directed

particularly to the content of paragraph two.of Attachment Do

We have the problem of reconciling the operational

exploitation of AMMUG/1 and satisfying the responsibilities

we have undertaken with Mr. Rankin.' AMMUG/l is such an

operational gold mine that Mr. Swenson wants, at a maximum,

two months to work fully. It is palpable, however, that we

must furnish to the Commissionthe substance of AMMUG/1's

SECRET

EYES OILY

Document Number

687-295

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

201-289248

CCC1/83

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

10

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 13

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SI3UET

EYES 0N17

information on OSWALD before that. On the previous record of

our association with the Cormission, particularly with Mr. Rankin,

it seems possible for the Agency to workout an arrangement with

Mr. Rankin personally that would take care of their needs and ours

aiter a frank discussion as the equities.

4. It is recommended that the DDP in person or via a

designee, preferably the former, discuss the AMMUG/1

situation on a very restricted basis with Mr. Rankin at his

earliest convenience either at the Agency or at the Commission

headquarters

Until this takes place, it is not desirable to put

anything in writing.

Raymond G. Rocca

Chief, CI Research and Aralysis

Attachments

cc: C/CI

C/WH/6 (without att)

C/WH/SA/CI (without att)

-2-

SIES CILY

281-289245

CC(1FE4

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 11

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 14

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLY

sostiens ca Oswals (

A)

Sans dono sone

Os Davo sensen la misares da lits11l

es pornitions el Eu

по porer?,

ese el thono contie

SECRET

EVES ONLY.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CCC1885

PAGE

: 12

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 15

18-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

EYES.ONG

ano initrantenia

han i dd zot ban

BNu axx

Baniiey Ata

no of

sogad ia

1 aca haoin

ane daltasa ofade

aplnl cer an

@ e

reas:

hareott atha ol Oomel

sepnl

lolzbernent

зу faapla

CASaND

Dy TiỆN

SECRET

EYES ONLY

C0C1866

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PACE 13 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGRET

EYES ONEY

07 May 1964

MOMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT Genera

Specific

REFERENCE

Chief, Counter Intelligence Stati

Attention: Mr. Roca

Debrieting of AMMUG-I

The Oswald Case

Blind Memorandum dated 05 May 1964

1. Reference is made to a telephone conversation yesterday

with Chief, CI Staff concerning this matter.

2 Because I am not aware of the information already

available to the Commission investigating the Cswald Case or

furnished by the Agency, my debriefing of the Source has been

based on the questions prepared by the CI Stalf and on what the

Source answers have suggested. I shall be glad to pursue any

other topics suggested by

CI Staff,

3. The Following information in addition to that in the

reference might be of interest:

a Luisa CALDERON, since she returned to Cuba,

has been paid a regular salary by the DGI even though she has

not performed any services. Her home is in the Vedado section

where the rents are high.

b. Source has known CALDERON for several years.

: Before going to Mexico, she worked in the Ministry of Exterior

Commerce in the department which was known as the #Empresa

Transimport". Her title was Secretary General of the Communist

Youth in the department named in the previous sentence.

Luisa CALDERON as transferred directly from her

position in the Ministry of Extertor Commerce to a post in México,

a matter of surprize to the source.

Rogello RODRIGUE Z Lopez (DGI pseudo MORCOS),

shortly before he left Cuba for Mexico on or about 16 April 1964,

saw CALDERON.

2:0 2EUI9IIEG

17T3

SECRET EYES ONLY

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

GOC1A87

PAGE 14

COPY NO.

. 0s 212

---

## Page 17

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

MS 19

4. As explained to Cl Staff any publicity which would

reveal the identity of the Source, his defection to KUBARK,

or the extent of his knowledge of DGi actvities might

prejudice the operational use ol the source himsel and oi

information which he has provided Accordingly, it might

be appropriate to point out to the Commission (as agreed

by DC/ WH/SA) that KUBARa hopes, by using the Source,

to obtain access to Det personnel including those mentioned

in paragraph 3 above.

Harold F. Swenson

Chief, WH/SA/CI

EYES ONLY

NOTION

«SEORET

201-281248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 15 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 18

1.3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6. May 1964

Proposed Question

on Onwald Case

REFERENCES Debriefing of Anta-i, dated

May 1964

1. "The source says that palor to Octaber 1963, Oswald visited the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico Clin muo or three occasions Il

is pubile knowledge he was la letico during the period 9-26-6.

to 10-3-63.

200

A) When did source learn of these visita - before or after

the assassination? Please descrlbe ln detall the cirenstances

under which soures learned this information and Identities of

tao persons Involved.

B) Did those visita tase place during the aforementioned

perlod or in the source referring to pronious viaits.

If the

latter, try to get more spectile details regarding these trips

and the origin of the dou

co's Information

The source statef

before, during, and after those vialis

Oswald was in cont t wit

thoDGi, specifically Lulsa

CALDERON, Manuel VEGA Peres and Rogello RODRIGUEZ LOpez.

This wonld appear to mean that one or more contacts were

made after Oswald returned to the United Staten l.e., between.

10-3-63 and 11-22-63-

A) What does source mean by contact?

E) Can he break down these contacts by the specific ln-

dividual named, place and typa of contact, and date of

occurence?

C) Did Oswald know of have reason to suspect the Intelli

gonce connections of these persons?

D) What was the purpose of these contacts?

at 36X442-27213

inas

296 POSTATIST LiFE

2..S1

201-281248

CÔC1F8S

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

16

COPY

NO.

02 212

---

## Page 19

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

E) If Oswald did sos know

tha intelligence affiliations of

these Individuals, what pretests,

L'any, ware employed la

contacting him?

I) Did source ever see any documentary material on any

as these contacts, or any correspondence initiated by or

addressed to Oswald?

G) Did the DG! ever employ physical surveillances.

technical devices or camera equipment to cover these contacte.

E) The source say he does not know whether the Cuban

services used Oswald in azy agent capacity or otherwise.

This obvioualy makes it more important to check out what the

source maant la question one.

3. Dia the DGI ever initlate an lavestigation of Oswald?

* What was the reason for packaging files at DCI headquarters

and fleld offices after news of the assasslation was received?

5.

Source was asked whether any provocative material was

deliberately fabricated by the Cubana (Question 9) to confuse

the Investigation of Oswald. The reply attributed to him was,

"the only fabrlcation know la the special matter by Fidel

CASTRO previoualy mentioned." Please clarify.

CCC1850

SEITST

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 17 0 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

DiU:R1

EYES ONLY

08 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff

Attention Mg. Rocka

SUBJECT General

Specific

Debrieting of AMMUG-1

<The Oswald Case

REFERENCE

Blind. Memorandum dated 05 May 1964 v

B.

C.

Blird Memorandum dated 07 May 1964

Conversations between CI Staff and

1. When the Oswald Case first was discussed with the Source the

specific questions prepared by CI Staff were posed. The answers

given by the Source were reported in Reference A.

That memorandum

which I dictated to a CI Staff stenographer appears accurate except for

sentence #9 which should have said that the only possible "fabrication"

known by Source was the specific denial by Fidel CASTRO, on a

television program; of any Cuban knowledge of Oswald.

2. On 07 and 08 May 1964 I furtber discussed the Oswald Case •

with the Source in order to clarify exactly what he knew and what

he had heard. In the light of the explanation given by him, I believe

that a clearer understanding of what he knows can be reached if I

record his knowledge without using the question and answer format.

Accordingly, in the following paragraphs I shall report all the

information given by the Source paraphrasing his explanations and

comments.

" I have no personal knowledge of Lee Harvey OSWALD or his

activities and I do not know that OSWALD was an agent of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI) or any other directorate

or department of the Caban Government.

I first heard of OSWALD after the assassination of President

Kennedy when news media carried the name of OSWALD.

Personnel in the Dot first commented about the case, so far as

I can recall, one day after lunch when a group of officers, of

whom I was one, were chatting.

The officers present were about

ten including Roberto SANTIESTEBAN, Norberto HERNANDEZ

de Curbelo, Andres ARMONA, Pedro FARINAS Diaz and

CS.

EYES

at 46XAA2-27213

201-289248

(0L1891

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

18

0: 212

COPY

NO.

# D 2558

---

## Page 21

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

bad # 8 thre I

EYES OMLY

2

Manuel VEGA Perez.

Manuel VEGA Perez previously had

been assigned to Mexico in thé Cuban Consulate where he

was the principal intelligence officer of the DGI. VEGA

the or the th on co act on to the Ca ap Coatiate

during the time that VECA, w as in Mexico. I gathered,

although i do not know that VEGA made any specific

statement to this effect, that VEGA personally had seen

OSWALD. I well could have reached this conclusion

because normally VEGA and his assistant in Mexico for

the DGI, Rogello RODRIGUEZ Lopez, would see persons

applying for a visa to go to Cuba. This is because DGI

officers are charged with expediting the granting of visas

of agents of the DG. Such agentsion appearing at the

Consulate use a special phrase to indicate their relationship

with the DGi. (/ do not know the particular phrase used

in every case.. I do know that agents from El Saivador in

requesting visas alwayer made mention of the name "Vauricio" )

The DGI officers at Consulate Interview visa applicants to

find out if they are agents. If the visa applicant does not use

one of the inchcared, phrases, the Doi officers, instead of

granting the vian immediately, tell the applicant to return in

, few days. The officer fhen notifies Habana and request

authority for the visa.

I cannot recall i VEGA even made th

statement that he had requested permission to issue a visa to

OSWALD, but I feel sure that he would have done so because

VEGA had said that OSWALD had returned several times and

this would be the usual procedure.

I believe that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez also would have

Seen OSWALD because he worked with VEGA and also would

have screened visa applicanta.

I thought that Luisa CALDERON might have had contact with

OSWALD because I learned about 17 March 1964, shortly before

I made a trip to Mexico. that she had been involved with an

American in Mexico. The information to which I refer was told

to me by a Dal case oficer named Norberto FERNANDEZ de

Curbelo. (I remember the conversation with HERNANDEZ

EVES ONLY

SECRET

6001F52

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

19

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 22

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECHET

EYES DRY

1

because he gave me $40. 00 to buy some shoes and

other items during my trip to Mexico.) I had

commented to HERNANDEZ that it seemed strange

that Luisa CALDERON was receiving a salary from

the DGI although she apparently did not do any work

for the Service. CHERNANDEZ told me that hers was

a peculiar case and that he himself believed that she

had been recruited in Mexico by the Central Intelligence

Agency although marug PintiRe, the head of the Dol,

did not agree. As Krecall, HERNANDEZ had investigated

Luisa CALDERON. This was because, during the time

she was in Mexico, the DGI had intercepted a letter to

her by an American who signed his name as OWER (phonetic)

or something similar. As you know, the pronunciatior

of Anglo-Sazon names is difficult in Spanish so I am not

sure of how the name mentioned by HERNANDEZ should be

spelled. It could have been "Howard" or something different.

As I understood the matter, the letter from the American

was a love letter but Indicated that there was a clandestine-

professional relationship between the writer and Luisa

CALDERON. Falsgunderstood.from HERNANDEZ that

after the interception ofthe letter she had been followed

and seen in the companior an American. I do not know if

this could have been OSWALD. I, myself, considered the

case of Luisa CALDERON unusual because I had known her

before she went to Mexico when she worked in the Ministry

of Exterior Commerce in the Empresa Transimport Department

where she was Secretary General of Communist Youth. She

was transferred directly from that position to a post in Mexico

which seemed strange.

The only other person about whom you asked me in connection

with this, whom 1 recall, is Sylvia EURAN and I know very

little about her.

What happened was that I was in the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico on 23 March 1964 about 1230 in the afternoon

preparing to return to habana the same day. I was talking to

some other Cubans including Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez and

nu BUENAVENTURA of the Cuban Embassy; a courier named

"Enio", a courier named. "Tato", and one other Cuban whom I

cannot recall.

we saw a pretty girl standing at the end of

the reception roomg and someone asked who she was, and one

of the group said it was sylvia DURAN

EVES OR2Y

CCC18S3

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

20

COPY NO.

•212

---

## Page 23

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SS07ET

EVES ONLY

I recall that, after the news of the assassination of

President Kennedy reached the DG! orders were issued

for all offigs of the DCi, at Headquarfers and in the field,

to sort and package all documents according to whether

they were "muy ferreto" (vesy secret),

"gecreto" (secret),

or "Importante" (important). The material, once packaged,

was to be held pending further instructiong. All travel by

DGI officers and all DGI pouches were suspended temporarily.

In addition,

I recall that DCI Headquarters personnel were

instructed elther to remain in the DGI Headquarters offices

or to keep the DGI aware of their whereabouts so that they

could be reached immediately. I do not know the reason for

these measures but I believe it logical that they were issued

because of the possibility that the United State might take

some type of action against Cuba and the DGI offices. As

nearly as I can recall, we were able to unpackage DGI files

and use them normally about the 3rdof December 1963."*

3. In brief, the Source does not claim to have any significant

information concerning the assassination of President Kennedy or

about the activities of OSWALD NEthe paraphrased comments of

the Source are considered to fee further charification, I suggest that

Mr. Rocca, who is most familiar with the details of the OSWALD

Case, talk to the Source. This can bevarranged at any time. Mean-

while, I shall have a question asketh a forthcoming LCFLUTTER to

determine whether or not the Source seems to have concealed any

information on this matter.

Harold F. Swenson

Chief, WH/SA/CI

C=0271

20i-285200

C001854

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

21

COPY

NO.

0f 212

---

## Page 24

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, CI/R&A

TO:

(Officer designation, roem number, and

building)

1.

DDP

2.

3.

Chief, CI/R&A

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

fERNAL

USE ONLY

CONTDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

DATE

RECEIVED S

EXTENSIQU

XAAZ- 21166

DATE

19

Al June 1964

FORWARDED

ONTARS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

1 whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

I think you will be

particularly interested in para-

graph 3 of Mr. Dooley's memo

of record, attached. Art went

over to wind up loose end we

had with regard to the AMMUG

information we had previously

furnished.

Rock

10.

FORM

610 USE PRESID

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

ON

BY HAND

Document Numbor: 739-319

for FOlA Review on.

JUN 1976

SAME AS

1193-953

201-289248

a pack

....

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

CộC18S5

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

22

- • 212

COPY

NO.

# 82559

---

## Page 25

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

SOURCE EVALUATION:

The Source is believed to be yery reliable.

We have

established through independent evidence and cross-

checking that the major part as the) intelligence

information furhished by him is anquestionably

true.

For example, we knew independent of this

Source that

RODRIGUEZ

tanuel VEGAyPerez and Rogelio

Loppy were Cuban intelligence officers

in Mixico.

SECHET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AMD

METHICOS INVOLVED

C001856

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

23

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 26

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

DLUNLI

XAAZ-27166

19 June 190÷

'PO

Chief, CI/184

1- Raymond Gu Rooc

"ENRA MENE VE AMMUG

and Warren Certission

with related documents.

(201-287,248)

1. On 15 May 1964, ve provided the President's Conmissio

with a summary of our debriefing of Cuban defector ACUG 1 who had

no personal Inowledge of Oswald and no information linking him to

the Cuban intelligence services in any manner. AS a fOLZOU-lE

Mi. Howard P. Willens of the Commission asked if hi could see

questions used in the interrogation:

On 18 Juno, I took the questions and sourse's rusponses

to the Commission and shoved them to. Mr. Wiltens.

and returned the questions: to me with the observation thut they were

viry thorough and fully satisried his réquirements.

sar no need tu puisue this angle any lurther.

questions and

answers exhibited to Mc. Willenstare attached.

At no time during

our contacts with th: Commission did ve disclosu thu source's Identity

or cryptonyn.

il. Hillons indicated that the Commission vas vinding

its investigation.

He was highly complimentary of

CIA, referrind

the agency personnel he encountered here and in Mexieo

Mr. Willens asked that I convey his kest regards to

Document Number 139-3.19

for FOLA RevioN o JUN 1976.

Ablachment: a/s

SAME AS

5

Arthur &. Dooley

193.953

- Drig & 1 - C/CI/RBA

- CI/R&A/ALDooley

1 - CI/k&A/Chrono

101.289318

s all,.

SECHET

CHOOP 1

Excluded train a lucial!

sown rating and

declassicade

C0L1857

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

24

PAGE

COPY NO.

09212

---

## Page 27

13-00000

SECHET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WARNI_ NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHOLS INVOLVED

6 Many 1964

Froposid questiona on Oswald case

1.

2.

source says that prion

so October 1963, Ourald visitud the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico Cily

on two or three occasions.

public knowledge he was in Mexico during the period 9-26-63 to

10-3-63.

A)

When did souice learn of these visits - before oi aiter

assassination?

Please describe

inder shich soured learned this ipronation and identities ofe

the persons involved.

Did this visits

take place during the aforementinea

is the source referring to previous visits.

try to fit more specific detafls regarding

of the source's information.

stabig that verave, during,

and after these

in contact fitbuthe DGI, specifically Luisa

• CALDERON, Manuel VEGA Perez and Rogello RODRIGUEZ Lopez.

would appear to mean that one or more contacts were made. ufter

Oswald returned

to the United States i.c., betreen 10-3-03 and

A) Ihat dias scures mean by contact?

B) Can he

break dom these contacts

th. spocific

individual noned, place and type of contust,

and date of

occurrence?

Did Oswald know or have

reason

to suspeut the

intilligence connections of these persons?

D) What vas

the purpose of these contacts?

E)

It Oswala did not know the intulligence

affiliations

of these individuals,

what pretexts, if any, were employed in

contacting him?

F') Did source crud see any documentary naterial on any oi

these conta:ts, or any correspondence Initiated by or addrcosed

IS COME SEBIE

884148

WARNING MÖNCE

SENSITIVE SOURCE. AND

MAliND 100091000

COC18S8

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

25

PAGE

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 28

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECHET

WANING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

3.

4.

5.

G)

Dia the DGI ever amploy plysical surveillances,

tachnical devices or camera equipment to cover these contacts?

IL)

The source says he does not know whether

the Cuban

Survices used Oswald fir

any agent, capacity or otherwise.

This

obviously makes it more important to chack out what the source

meant in question ones

Did the DGI sor initiate

Investigation of Osvald?

Whet was

foi packaging files at DGI headguarters

field offices after news of the assassination was received?

asked vother any provocative material vas deliberately

fabricated by the Cubans (Question 9) to confuse the investigation

of oswald.

The reply attributed to him was,

"the only fabrication

the special matter by Fidel CASTRO previously mentioned."

Please clarify.

Addendun 19. June with religence to

45;

the only possible fabrication known by sourca was the spicific

denial by Fidel CASTRO on a TV program of any Cuban knowladge

of Oswald.

-2-

SECHEY

201

WARING MINCE

SEN: :

!:!.

244.148

C0C18S3

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

26

NO.

02 212

---

## Page 29

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WAITING HOU

SENSITIVE SOARE T

5 May 1964

Subject - General: Debriefing of Cuban Source

Specific:

OSWAtCase

The source does not have direg+ knowledge of Lee Harvey OSWALD

or his activities but was able to provide items of interest based on

Cuban intelligence officers assigned to the Direccion General De

Inteligencia.

The information appearing below was furnished by

the source and is keyed to questions submitted.

Prior to October 1963, OSWALD, visited the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico City on two or three, occasions. Before, during and after

these visits, OSWALD was in contact with the Direccion General De

Inteligencia (DG]), specifically with Luisa CALDERON, Manuel

VEGA Perez and Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Dópez.

VEGA whole Cuban inteluigence pseudonym is MARCOS

is the current Cuban IS chief i-Mexico.

He recently has had a

tour of duty in Habana, prigr to which he held the same post as

now as Cuban IS chief in Mexico.

RODRIGUEZ is a Cuban IS staff officer in Mexico. He has

three Cuban intelligence pseudonyms, Eduardo, Casimiro and Jose

Antonio.

121 NAAL: 111:

The precise relationship of Luisa CALDERON to the DGI is

not clear. She spent about six months in Mexico from which she

returned to Cuba early in 1964.

2. The source does not know whether or not the Cuban Services

used OSWALD in any agent capacity of other manner.

3.

A. When news of the assassination of President Kennedy

reached the DGI, it caused much comment concerning the fact

OSWALD had been in the Guban Embassy in Mexico. In addition,

orders were issued for all headquarters and field officers of the

DGI to sort and package all documents according to whether they

ES AIRL:

SEGHET

WARNING NOTICE

serate anya.

Meliss liri

6001960

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

27

СоРУ NO.

0s 212

---

## Page 30

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

katrinanike

SENSITIVE SOURCES

AND

METHIOUS I VOLVED

were "Muy secreto" (very secret), "secreto" (secret), and

"importante" (important). The material once packaged was to be

held pending further instructions.

In addition, all travel by DGI

officers and all DI pouchagiwere suspended temporarily.

B. When the news that

OSWALD was the assassin reached

the DGI, there was no immediate comment but, when Fidel CASTRO

spoke on television to deny Cuban involvement,

there was considerable

comment concerning OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

At this time VEGA, who has been mentioned previously, was in Cuba

and commented to a group of DGI staff officers that OSWALD had come

to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico to request a visa but had been refused.

VEGA did not give any details and the subject was not pursued.

4. It is not known whether information on OSWALD's visit to

the Cuban Consulate in Mexico in September 1963 was relayed to any

Cuban service.

5. It is not known if the Cuban intelligence services had contact

with the New Orleans! Fair Play fox Cuba Committee.

6. The only Molina whois recalled ig "The Hook", the Cuban who

was convicted in New York City for the murder of a young girl during

a clash between two Cuban groups. The DGI staff officer who had been

in the United Nations in New York, SANTIESTABAN traveled to Cuba

with "The Hook" and with another Cuban named ORIHUELA and upon

arrival in Cuba tried to obtain employment for both individuals. The

names Pedro Charles and Peter have no known significance.

7. The reaction of Soviet officials in contact with the Cuban intelli -

gence services is not known.

8. Nothing is known about Soviet proposals following the news of

President Kennedy's assassination.

9. The only fabrication known is the special matter by Fidel

CASTRO previously mentioned.

10. Nothing is known about Jack RUBENSTEIN aka Jack RUBY •

11. The name Gilberto LOPEZ is not familiar but, if he visited

DGI headquarters, a photograph of him possibly could be identified.

12. OSWALD's photo was seen in the newspapers but nothing is

known about him other than what appeared in the press. u

WARNI. i:

..Cd

ANU

169218

MEl.

SEGRET

C0C1901

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

28

COPY NO®

01 212

---

## Page 31

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

V

SENSTEIVE CD PAID MIND

METROIS

1 MAY 1964

Proposed Questions on Oswald Case

1.

Was Lee Harvey

NALD known'to the Cuban intelligence services

before 23 November 196335 If so which service?

2. Were the Cubarg

any other manner,

using OSWALD in any agent capacity, or in

•€ 23 November 1963?

What was the reaction of the Cuban intelligence services to news

of President Kennedy's assassination? Io the news that OSWALD

was the assassin?

4. Was information on OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico

City in September 1963, relayed to any Cuban service? If so, what

action was taken?

5. Was there any contact between the Cuban intelligence services and

the New Orleans' Fair Play for Cuba Committee?

6. Has subject ever heard of Mario del ROSARIO Molina, or Pedro

Charles known also as "Peter"'?

7. How did the Soviet officials in contact with the Cuban intelligence

services react to news of the assassination?

8. Did the Soviets propose

type of action or investigation to the

Cuban intelligence

serkites

following the news of President Kennedy's

assassination

9. Was any

service

investiga

rovocative material deliberately fabricated by the Cuban

otte reland sent to the United States to confuse the

the OSWALD case?

10. Was Jack RUBENSTEIN aka Jack RUBY known to the Cuban intelligence

services? If so, in what way?

11.

Does subject know a Gilberto LOPEZ who entered Mexico on November

23, 1963 at Neuvo Laredo, Texas and four days later proceded to

Havana by special plane.

He was 23 years old and carried a U.S.

passport.

He also had a Mexican tourist permit. Develop all

information you can on this individual.

20-284048

US 0kt

WARING; NOTICE

:!'

ATIO

nill

111:1

0001902

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

29

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SERIAL /

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WAR

dO NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHIOOS MUCUTO

12. Attached is a photograph of OSWALD, and a letter from Havana

which is self-explanatory for guidance of the case officer. Under

no circumstances should the contents of the letter be inade known

221-201295

WARNING NOTICE

SENATIVE SORELS AND

Milde tried

C0C19C3

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

30

o: 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 33

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Enocutive Regisir.

55-1846

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefeller,

Chairman

John T. Connor

C. Douglas Dillon

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkland

Lyman b. Lemnitzer

Ronald Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

David W. Belin,

Executive Director

April 15, 1975

Mr. E. Hensy!

Knoche:

Assistant to the Direetor

Centrab Intelligenge Agency

Washington,

Dear Mr. Knocke:

As you know, there have been allegations that the CIA was

involved in a plan to assassinate Fidel Castro.

purposes of this letter, we will assume that these allegations

are correct, and based upon this assumption I would like to

know the answers to the following questions:

1.

Did anyone with the CIA tell any member of the Warren

Commission or any lawyer serving on the Warren Commission

staff that such plans had been underway?

If the answer is

yes, we would like to know what person or persons with the

Agency delivered said information,

it was delivered,

when it was delivered, what specifically was told or said,

what documents there are to support the answers to the fore-

going questions, and what response, if any. was received from

the Warren Commission.

If the Cormission was not told about

this, why was it not told and who made the decision not to

deliver such information to the Warren Commission?

There is evidence that Castro, prior to November 22, 1963,

knew about the existence/of such plans and the possible

volvement of the U.S. Government.

Did the CIA at any time prior

o the completion of the Warren Commission investigation have

any documents or other information indicating that Castro may

have krom about such plans?

If the answer is yes, would you

please füfhish us with copies of all such documents and details

of any such information.

Several months prior to the assassination of President

83

0001.9C4

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

31

COPY

NO.

#02500

- 0212

---

## Page 34

13.000,00

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-2-

to possible assassination

attempts on his life and possible

retaliation.

Would you please

advise us if there is any

evidence that this Associated Press report may have appeared

in any newspapers in the united States, including specifically.

any newspapese in Dallas or New Orleans.

Would you also

advise us &flyou have any other information of public state-

ments of any Cuban, Leader prior to November 22, 1963 indicating

any awareness of possible assassination plots on the lives of

4. Would you please advise us if there is any information in

CIA records to indicate that at any time prior to November 22,

1963 any foreign government or any foreign group was consider-

ing a possible assassination.of any American leader..

If. so,

would you please advise us of all details and also advise us

who: in the United States Government outside the CIA was ad-

vised of these plans or possibilities.

Prior to his death Lyndon Johnson supposedly stated that

he believed that although there was no doubt. that Oswald

killed Kennedy and Tippitt, nevertheless Oswald might have

been a part of a conspiracy in retaliation

to possible United

States assassination attempts in Cuba.

Would you please advise

us of any information in

showing whether or not

there was any communication to President Johnson of any possible

plans involving the attempted assassinations of any Cuban

leader and if the answer is yes, also give us all details

involving this matter.

Sincerely yours,

David W. Belin

Executive Director

C0C1.965.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

32

COPY NO.

0f 212

---

## Page 35

13-00000g.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22809

12 May 1964

1745

MEMORANDUMSFOR: Mr Rocca

"Internal Mame Regarding Agaucy's Pesition in

with

banner

Dialing

The DDP called me this afternoon, 12 May, to state

that the Directo» has received a telephone call from RANKIN

regarding the Commission's desire to interview him at 1030 AM,

Thursday. MI. HOOVER is scheduled to appear at 9:00 on that

morning.

2.

The DDP wishes to have from you a short but

comprehensive memorandum which highlights the basic issues or

positions entered into by the Agency in its dealings with the

Commission.

For example, RANKIN indicated that the Commission

would wish to hear the Dire ctor's views as to how improvements

might be made in protecting the President's life.

Further, they

will probably ask questions regarding the possibilities that a con-

spiracy existed. Such general questioning certainly necessitates

that the DCI be made aware of the positions taken during previous

interviews. I raised with Mr. HELMS the nature of the recent

information which you are processing which originated with the

= sensitive WH source.

I informed him that in your view this would

raise a number of new factors with the Commission, that it should

not go to the Commission prior to the Director's appearance unless

we have first had some preliminary reaction or made sure that the

Director is fully aware of its implications since it could well serve

as the basis for detailed questioning.

The DDP stated that he would

review this carefully and made a decision as to the question of timing.

3. Given the schedule, you will appreciate that the DDP

will need a paper covering the above points as soon as possible.

CS COPY

J.A.

Document Number.

684-298

for FO:A Review on

JUN 1976

201-249248

200-5-41

C001966

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

33

- 01 212

COPY

NO.

#D 2567

---

## Page 36

13-00000.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

14 May 1964

Brief for Presentation so

President's Commission on the Assassination

Retent Kennedy

14 May 1964

Document Number 695-302 A

for FOIA Review on

JUN 1976

CS COPY

SECRET

201-28/248

0001907

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

34

COPY NO.

08212

---

## Page 37

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

..21

Summary. Outline

This brief is concerned with five topics which, it is

anticipated, will arise in the course of the Director's appear-

ance before the PE

endent's Commisgion. These are:

2. Formal and requalified negation by the DaI

of any contact or association, direct or indirect,

between the Central Intelligence Agency and Lee

Harvey Oswald. This should be accompanied by

the tabling of an affidavit signed by the Director

and notarized. (TAB A)

b. A formal assurance by the Director that all

information in the possession of the Agency regarding

Oswald's activities and associations outside of the

United States has been made available to the

Commission through its staff, with which there has

been close and frequent contacts since the inception

of the Commission's activities. (TAB B)

C. An interim pronouncement by the DCI on the

problemo

sibility fer Oswald's

C001908

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

35

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 38

13-00000 *

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

... •

(,

SEG ET

activity. It is suggested that the DCI take the position

that at this time there is no conclusive evidence of

conspiratorial sponsorship of Oswald; that all Agency

information bearing on this problem has been furnished

to the Commission for evaluation and consideration in the

framework of its total knowledge of the facts. The Agency,

at the present time, is lacking any knowledge of recent

information or documentation furnished by the Soviet

Government to the Commission with respect to Oswald's

activity in the Soviet Union. (TAB C)

d. The DCI's suggestions for improving policy and

organization with respect to the personal security of

the President. Certain steps relating strictly to the

Agency's jurisdiction have already been suggested by

memorandum. It is proposed that the Director now

make specific suggestions involving legislation which

would treat information bearing on the personal security

of the President and, advisedly, other Federal officials

directly related to national security affairs in a manner

similar to what currently exists by statute for special

0001963

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

•PAGE

36

COPY

NO

.o212

---

## Page 39

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

nuclear material or weapons introduced to the United

States or manufactured therein (The Atomic Weapons

Avarde Act oRiS Suly 1955). (TAB D)

"Oswald"s activity. in Mexico and his possible

relationship to the Cuban Intelligence Service.

Substantive information of grave concern. to the

security of sources and methods have been developed

on both of these topics. The information and, in certain

instances, knowledge with respect to acquisition has

been made available on a highly restricted basis to

Mr. Rankin and to certain elements of his staff. It is

recommended that the DCI not respond on the record

to queries on these topics. He should suggest that all

such "technical questions" be worked out in detail through the

channels and procedures that have functioned very well

- - we believe -- between the Commission and particular

CIA components. (TAB E)

3

C001910•

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

:37

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 40

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

A

REPRORUOTION

?:=.

6001511

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

38

COPY

NO.

03212

---

## Page 41

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

TAB A

Formal Disclaimer of any Relationship with lee Harvey Oswald

There have been gumore and allegations which began.

immediately after the assassitation which branded Oswald as a

U.S. Government agent. In many instances, CIA has been

named as his sponsor. The authorship, geographical dispersion

throughout the world, the identity of themes and the timing lend

strong support to the conclusion that these charges are elements

of a world-wide, Sortet-

sponsored propaganda and misinformation

program.

As DCI, MI. McCone welcomes this appearance before

the Commission to make a categorical and unqualified denial of

these unprincipled distortions of the historical and personal

responsibilities for what was a dastardly and heinous act. In

witness of this, the DCI submits to the Commission an affidavit

which formalizes this statement. The affidavit is attached.

It is recommended that the DCI state concurrently with this

action that he desires to draw the Commission's attention to the

fact that the irresponsible charges that have been made, sponsored

0061/12

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

39

COPY

NO.

0:212

---

## Page 42

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEC

and replayed by Soviet bloc and Communi

st individuals and

organs since the assagination of the President, recall the

methods and the puxposes of the broader campaign against

American intelligence and, security components which has built

up momentum over the past six years. We have traced the

sponsorship of that campaign directly to individuals and com-

ponents within the Soviet police state apparatus.

Their un-

scrupulous treatment of the Oswald case was neither new as a

method nor a surprise as an occurrence.

If the DCI is challenged by anyone on the Commission

about the substance or implication of his affidavit, it is recom-

mended that response be along the following lines:

CIA is a democratic institution. The DCI bas

incorporated in his affidavit the results of detailed

and painstaking examination.

ISaay qualification is

raised with respect to the affidavit, he willingly

undertakes the extraordinary step of releasing any

individual in CIA to appear before the Commission

and to testify wit

aypect to any knowledge beazing

on the Commission's task

2

C0C1.913 •

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

40

COPY

NO.

01 212

---

## Page 43

13-00000 •

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

AFIDAVIT OF JOHN A. MCCONE

STATE OF" VIRGIN

COUNTY OF FAIRFAX

JOHN A. MCCONE, being duly swoms, deposes and saya that he is

the Director of Central Intelligence, and that based on bis personal.

knowledge of the affairs of the Central Intelligence Agency and on detailed

Inquiries he caused to be made by the officers within the Central

Intelligence Agency who would have knowledge about any relationship Lee

Harvey Oswald may have had with that Agency, he certifies that:

Lee Harvey Oswald was not an agent, employee, or

iatormant of the Ceatral Intelligence Agency:

the Agency never contacted him, Interviewed him,

talked with him, or receivedor solicited ady reports or

iníormation from atm, of communicatedwith him, directly

or indirectly, la any ober manner:

the Agency never fussleged him any funds or money,

of compensated him, direator indirecty, in any fashion;

and

Lee Harvey Oswald was never associated or connected.

directly or indirectly, in any way whatsoever with the Agency.

JOHN A. MCCONE

Subscribed and sworn to this -

day of

1964, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Virginia, by the

said JOHN A. McCONE, who is personally known to me and he duly

acknowledged to me the execution of the foregoing instrument.

Notary Public

My commission expires

(Seal)

C001914

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

•PAGE

4.

COPY

NO.

.08 212

---

## Page 44

13=

00000

REFRA

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

B

COC1915.

PAGE

42

COPY

NO.

ö? 212

---

## Page 45

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE

TAB B

Dissemination of Information to the Cot

ission

The DCI should make the

general statement that CIA

has supplied all the information in its possession regarding

the activities, affiliations and associations of Oswald, Copies

of the reports and access to original data, in specific in-

stances, has been given to Commission representatives in

accordance with the DCI's expressed instruction from the

inception that the Agency place itself completely at the

Commission's disposition,

COC1:16

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

43

COPY NO.

o8 212

---

## Page 46

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPROCUOTION

PROMBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001917

PAGE 44 of 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 47

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

TAB C

The Problem of Conspiracy

The DCI should note that from

start he bad given

specific indications togency persohnel working on the

Commission's probiers thaDa Pinformation bearing on

Oswald's possible relationships with foreign spoas ors be

made available to the Commission, The DCI may state that

he is gratified that his instructions have been carried out

diligently and promptly. Among the items of information

provided the Commiasion haye beca studies on the organi

zation and functions of components of the Soviet police

state which are

wito inclule individuals and units

charged with the performance of what is euphemistically

referred to as "executive action' . but is, in fact, charged

with assassination and sabotage.

The DCI should state that no firm evidence has thus

far developed abroad linking known Soviet, Soviet bloc or

Cuban intelligence and assassination personnel or organi-

zations with the act committed by lost

wey Oswald in

Dallas on 22 November

.. i

COC1.18

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 45

_ 01 212

•COPY• NO.

---

## Page 48

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

dor scanty reasons

pon-the-reco

It is recommended that the DCI handle any

questions

from the Commissión with respect to the apparently favorable

treatment afforded: Oawald fathe USSR, the withdrawal of his

wife, his possible contact there with Soviet State Security (the

KGB), and related questions which would tend to establish

Oswald's associational link with Soviet intelligence as

"techaical questions" and, therefore, beyond the scope of

present testimony. It's suggested that he rest on the fact that

the Commission has taken up these points item-by-iter with

the technical levels of the Agency and that the ultimate findings

and evaluation can only be determined by the Commission.

2

0001913

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 46. 01212

COPY

---

## Page 49

13-00000:

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODNSTIOM

PROHIBIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001/20

PAGE

41

_ os 212

COPY NO:

---

## Page 50

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEORET

TAB D

Suggestions for Improving Policy and Organization Regarding

Presidential Security

MI. Rankin raise

this, question dire ctly by letter. In

its response, the Agency confined itself to elements relating

to its statutory mission. Specifically, it was suggested that:

a. The Secret Service, or Treasury, record

with the Office of Central Reference a formal require -

ment for information relating to Presidential security.

b. It was suggested that, if the Secret Service

intended to expand its

Agrati gence coverage of possible

threats to the President's security, our experience

showed that it would need a specialized organizational

component to handle that task within the Secret Service

itself.

c. The CIA reply also noted that the Agency was

in direct touch with the Secret Service regarding the

possible utilization by that agency of our experience in

machine data processing. On the public record, it is

suggested that the DCI not repeat this detail.

00C1.21

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

48

COPY NO.

of

212

---

## Page 51

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

In his presentation to the Commission after referring

to these earlier suggestions; the DCI should state that he desires

to take the opportunity

go otfer a fauggestion which he has not

tabled heretofore.

The Commission's major problem has been the assessment

of personal motive and the relationship of an individual act to

possible conspiratorial guidance. Because conspiracy is the

core of the problem, the DCI should point out the possibility of

legislative action which might be an assistance in preventing

recurrence of the national calamity it is investigating. There

is an analogy at close hand between the problem of developing in

advance information relating to Presidential security and the

problem faced by the country a few years ago regarding the

clandestine introduction or manufacture in the U.S. of special

nuclear material or atomic weapons. The remedy devised at that

time was embodied in the Atomic Weapons Reward Act of 15 July 1955

(29 Stat 365, PL. 165, 84th Congress). In essence, the Act estab-

lished a substantial reward ($500, 000) for information bearing on

the Act provided by any person, and in certain instances privileged

treatment for such persons - for example, asylum if they were

2

0001922

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

49

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 52

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PRET

(

C.

foreigners, was assured.? Finally, a Reward Board was

created to adminter the purposes of the Acto

1) The DCT should supengthat the Commission considez a

recommendation for original legislative action designed to

induce individuals to furnish information bearing on Presidential

security by offering a substantial reward and preferential treatment.

The DCI should assure the Commission that he is convinced that

the substantial award, the special treatment, and the publicity

which would attend the implementing legislation in this matter

could represent a significant inducement even to staff officers

and personnel of secret associations and state security organs

abroad whose functions include assassination and sabotage. It

is these individuals who would be privy to plans of executive action.

The reward would constitute additional inducement for such

individuals to take the risk of making important disclosures.

The suggestion does not reston tão caterial eloments o

reward and special treatment. The DCI can assure the Comi

mission that we are aware that personnel in police state apparatuses

charged with the assassination and sabotage functions have repeatedly

expressed and, in many cases, acted upon their repugnance for

3

3E0TET

CCC1. 23

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 50 0 212

COPY

NO.

/

---

## Page 53

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

such work and for the system which calls upon them to do it.

There are specifio cases in the past ten years which document

this assertion. Trusted periginel charged with assassination

• missions have abandoned the mission even without the assurance

or the inducement which the DCI is here proposing.

In making this suggestion, the DCI may go one step further

in advising the Commission to suggest that the Commission

examine the advisability of legislation making it a Federal offense

to conspire and to kill the Chief Executive. 3) The DCI could also

indicate that the Commission might desire to suggest that any

legislation along these lines should be enlarged to include con-

spiracy to kill any Federal official in the President's personal

circle of official associates directly concerned with national

security affairs. (The Agency's Legal Counsel states that

draft bills have been considered on the Hill.).

CCC1.24

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 51 01 212

COPY ITO.

---

## Page 54

13-00000.::

INTEr-"AL SECURITY MANUAL

SENATE

levise

86th Congress

Ind Session

PP 275-277

ATONIC TESTONS BESTOS AGT

¡ Act of July 1ã, 1035 (C2 Stat 365, P.Is. 165, Sitti Cong.) -tomic

Weapons Licwards dot, on 1055:

«De it earcted by the Schair und House of Lepresentrices of

the United Sinteror Aucrica in Congress Assendled, Thit this

•ce may bo cic as die ione Weapors Rewars Aet or 1055.

*Sec.?. Any person wka fusighies original information to the

United States

or other acquisicion hy the

United Siates

rating to the spent pull out or tronic

weapon which has becn introduced into the

United Stries,

or which has been manufactured or acquired therein contrary

to the laws of the United States, or

"(b) with respect to an atrempted introduction into the

United Sinies or an attempied manufacturo or neguisition

therein of any special nuclear material or atonic weapon,

contrary to the laws of the United States,

shall bo rewarded by the payment of an amount not to excced

$500,000.

«Sec. 3. An Awards Board consisting of tho Sccretary of tho

Irensury (who saall bo the. Chairman), the Sccretary of Delens

ho Attorney General, the Director of Central Intelligence, and

of one member of the Atomic Energy Commission designted

by that Commission, shall determine whether any.

person fur-

nishing information

to the United States is entitled

to nny

award and tho mount thereof to be paid pursuant to section

In determining

whether any person furnishing informa-

tion to the

United

States is

entitled to an aard and

the

amount of such award, the Bourd shall tako into consid-

cration-

"(a) whether or not the information is of the typo specified

in section 2, and

"(b) whether the person furnishing tho information tas

on ollicer or employce of the United States and if so, whcther

the furnishing of such information as in the line of duty of

that person.

"Any reward of $50,000 or more shall bo approved by tho

President.

"Sec. 4. If tho information leading to an award under section 3

is furnished by nn-alien, the Sceretary of state, the Attorney

Genernl, and the Director of Central Intelligence, acting jointly,

may determine that the entry of such alien into tho United States

is in the public interest and, in thnt event, such alien and the mem-

bers of luis immediate familimar recciro immigrant visas and

may bo admitted to the United States for permanent residence,

notwithstanding the requirements of the Immigration and Na-

tionality Act.

"Stc.

hold

5. Tho Board established under section 3 is authorized to

such hearings and make, promulate, issue, rescind, and

amend such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out

the purposes of this Act.

"SEc. G. Any awards granted under section 3 of this Act shall

bo certified by the A mards Board and, torether with the approval

of the President in those cases where such approval is required,

transmitted to the Director of Central Intelligence for payment

out of funds appropriated or nailble for the adiinistration of

the Yational Security Act of 10÷7, as amended.

"Src.T.

As used in this Act

"(n) The term "ntomic cherry" menrs all forms of energy re

leased in the course of nuclar fission or nuclear transformation.

"(b) The term

"atomic reapon' mens any device utilizing

nomic energy, erclusire of the menns for transporting or pro-

pelling the derice (where such means is a separable and divisibic

part of tho derice), the principal purpose of which is for uso as,

or for development of, a weapon, a reapon prototypo, or 1 reapon

test device.

"(a) Tho term 'special nuclear material' means plutonium, or

uranium erriched in the isotope 203 or in the isolope 235, or any

other anterial which is found to be special nuclear material pur-

suant to the provisions of the Acomic buerry det of I9u%

d(el) The term "Unired States,' when used' in a gcographical

senso, inclides Puerto Rico, all Territories and possessions of the

Uniied Simes and thie Canal Zone; escept that in section %, the

term "United States' shen so used shall have tho meaning given

to it in tho Inimigration and Nationality Act."

No. REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001: 25

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED.

PAGE

COPY

NO.

212

---

## Page 55

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODVOTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

:06C1526

PAGE 53 o 211

COPY NO.

---

## Page 56

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

TAB E

Mexican and Cuban Phases of Oswald's

Activity

Extensive information haa been made available to the

Commiesion by CIA on the working level regarding Oswald's

activity in Mexico City in September and October 1963. The

Commission Staff has been in detailed communication and

conversation with the Agency working levels both in head-

quarters and in Mexico City. Within the past week,

significant information has been developed by CIA regarding

the relationship with Oswald of certain Cuban intelligence

personnel in Mexico City and the reaction in Havana within

the Cuban Intelligence Service to the news of the assassination

of President Kennedy The Commission Staff is in the course

of being briefed on the Cuban aspect.

It is suggested that the DCI handle any question on the

Mexican and Cuban phases of Oswald's activity as "technical

questions" which members of the Commission can develop

from or through their own staff with-the appropriate component

of the Agency. This would he entirely consistent with the DCI's

overall assurance that he had ingencied hid personnel to place

their information completely at the Commission's disposition.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

54

COPY

NO.

05_212

---

## Page 57

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

10 April 1964

° MATERIAL FROM P-8593 HOUD TO WARREN COMMISSION:

English translations of calls made by OSWArDito Russian Embassy:

27 Sep 63 (1037); 27 Sep 63111626); 27 Sepjбia (1605); 28 Sep 63 (1151);

1 Oct 69 (1031: 1 Oct 63 78. g

2. English translation of conversation between President Dorticos in

Havana and Cuban Amb Joaquin Hernandez Armas in Mexico on 26 Nov 63.

3. English translation of conversation between Cuban Am to Mexico and

President Dorticos in Havana on 26 Nov 63.

Document Numbe

653-528

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

593

34

1635 i

PATEL FESTI

135F 8 608 FOLLE

•58 P: 12%02

RECORD COPY

7x-1892

201-289248

10 APR. 64

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CCC1. 28

PAGE 55 0 212

COPY NO.

#D2562

---

## Page 58

13-000,00

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

:.

XAHZ-36307

15 MAY 196.

HEMORANDUM IOR: ME. I. I00 Banitia

General Counsel

Predident's Commisalon on the

sanation di Prident Tensiy

Raid all Cuban Intelligonce Service

in Procainy Visa Applicants; Raaction

of that forvice to tha Assassinatine si

President Kaunday

Within tho vory racet period, this Agency bas ascaolissed

coataes with a well placed individual who bas been la clou and

prolonged contact with ranking oíficers of the Caban Direccion

General de Intelligencia (Direetorate Ceneral of intelligmes - DOI).

His knowledgo of DGI activitios, cachniques and personalities la

direct and proíound Thla Agency has queried bim in detail ou

possible contarts betroen Les Harvey CSMAID and the DGl prtor.:

to the azaasization of President Kennedy. A report on the irior

mation thus obtained Is attached to 141 memorasdam.

2. This sourco la highly sensitivs and of great, izmedlate

operational significanca to this Agency. The national concieriatelli-

gence interost abroad reguires, terriors, that recesa to the atached

report, as knowledge of the existence ol this source de restricted,

¿or the prosent al least, to purself and a minimum zumber of your

stail.

Doeument Number 1677-294

¡ar FOlA Revies on

3Ch 1975

Downgraded 10 g

SECRET

Ey authorizo

365$4.5

date

ROTOSER 1975-

IOL

208. 2067÷73313773

201-789248

GCC15 23

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

56

COPY

NO.

#D

2563

of

212

---

## Page 59

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

19.231

3. 1а ppropriad sonativity indicator

112 d

bone attired to

this memoranda sad the stached seport.

4.

a copy of shis memorandura with its istaciones has bren

formrded to the Federal Jursan of investigasion.

(Signer) Mahard leins

Bichard Huias

Deputy Dirsctor fox Plaaa

Atacamen

Distribation:

Orig. 3z2 - Addressee

2 - DDE

2

- C/CI/ RaA

1 • C/WH/3

I. - CI/R3ed/201

-C/CI

Originated By:

#/ Hall: 3h

13 3íay 1964

-3-

Dow graded to

SECRET

5365618

by sutrity iT OCTOBERIIX

date -

257

LUNG NONCE

SOURCES GOD

C001:30

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

57

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 60

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCT

PROMIETTED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CE(1^31

PAGE 58

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 61

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

21

JURIET: I HOSTALO

Too sourco has no poosonal, i

== bie activities and donna loo

OSTAIND WAs 2t ageNt

o Esa Diratitor inneral do inteliganga IDED) as asy staur dirie-

tornio or so periment al the China governs.

a first brassla 0571 titar the adassaination of Prasiden

East commented abest the taso in lis prosance on day añar junca,

when a group d oficers we citing. "Jong them vas amal

VEGA Perus win previonaly bed been aadignod to tha Cabar

Consulato la Merico Sity, warra la vas ta principal Dal citieer..

Vous mentican tat OSTAID had gous to sha Cuban Contiato

to or theos dance in comiction with a rive applicatics wring

tha tinse sanl V5GÀ was in Mesica.

Whether OS VALD bay any coac; with V25,, on those occasiou

I3 20l known to the sores, Homers LOt offleur stailond In

conaletos castomarily bienrion rise applicants to determina is

they zr9 IGI ayes. Il arplicants and identiflad za agesta, their

travel to axpedited, Otherwise, they une asually told is came baci

13 a I09 days, During tha inferion zopicants' names ars inbraitoe

so Fatana for farther eveling and intricilena. Actoring 3a tre

sOUrCe, 057ALD Jay DaTa beds buterviered by VOGA at Sto

ansistan;, Rogule RODRICUSt I05es, but thin ta strictly cou

arrything paridaant sbout laz ercept tiat sha ran prevent la the

Suban Erabasy in lexico in jarach 193..

they moss "hoy secreta" (very secat); "goersta" (seezet), or

SECRET

Downgraded to + 365.3+3

POLITE

OCTOBER 1985

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

COC1. 32

PAGE

59

COPY NO.

• of 212

---

## Page 62

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

$S2257

The satarial, suca consolated, tas

o be bald sending taster barbuctions. All bravel sy DEl oilicars

yas suspensed tacop

vers intracted to

Downgraded to SECRET

8345.249

by authorin " OCTUBER 197

70 -

0737

IS NOCE

3: SOURCES AND

: 125 NYC12

0001<33

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

60

COPY

NO.

03 212

-===

---

## Page 63

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

23 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR • DC/OPS

SUBJECT

Review of Selected Items in the

Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding

Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban

Involvement in the

John F. KINNEDY Assassination

The attached

dew and summary was written at

the express request of ir. David W. Balin as a follow-

up to Question 3 of his letter to the Agency of

15 April 1975.

The results - as I have already told him add

nuance, not evidence, to what the Warren Commission and

its staff had laid before them in 1964 on this subject.

The results of the review are stipulated in paragraph 8

of the Attachment.

There seemed to be no reason to

attach copies of the case reports from the file to this.

summary®

These can be made available promptly, however,

on request.

this sunnary does not deal with press,.

magazine and books that dealt with the subject during

the period after the assassination.

My recommendation Is to do with this paper as

we did with the earlier one requested by Mr.. Belin on

the unidentified man: let'him read the entire summary

then decide how much of it;

if any, is pertinent

SECRET

V IMPDET EL BY 055431

CCC1:34

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

61 ° 21

NO.

22564

---

## Page 64

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

o his ane the Comiasion's needs ma then decide ho.

nuch will go into the classifiad rectd.

Raymond Go

Attachment

SECRET.

C0C1^35

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 62

• COPY

NO.

_ O 212

---

## Page 65

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S

E

CRE T

2230

SUBJECT : Review of Selected Items in the

Lee Harvey OSWALD File-Regarding Allega-

tions of CASTRO Cuban Inyolvement in the

John F. KENNEDY -Assassipation

REFERENCE: Letter by David W. Belin to

Mr.

E. Henty Knoche, 15 April 1975,

paragraph 3

(Regarding Public Statement

by CASTRO,

Y, attached

BACKGROUND

I. On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963,

Fidel CASTRO appeared at

a Brazilian Embassy reception in

Havana; even more unusual, CASTRO submitted to

an informal

interview by the Associated Press correspondent,

Daniel HARKER.

2. HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday,

8 September, and was in print throughout the country on

Monday, 9 September. There can be no question from the

facts surrounding the CASTRO appearance, which had not been

expected, and his agreement to the interview, that this

event represented a more-than-ordinary attempt to get a

message on the record in the United States®

SECRET

0001:36

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 63

COPY

NO.

o212

---

## Page 66

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRE.

3. CASTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of

topics but dealt principally with American political

leadership, in particular Président KENNEDY, whom he ex-

coriated in extraordinar

provocative fashion

(" ... KENNEDY is a cretir

= ... the BATISTA of his

times... the most opportunistic American President of

all time ...").

4. The interview also contained an uncomplimentary

reference to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing

the limited nuclear test ban. There were differences in

the replay by United States newspapers like the

New York Times and Washington papers, with a result that

CASTRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

5. In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided

until the middle of September 1963, the HARKER story

appeared in the principal morning paper. the Times-Picayune,

on Monday, 9 September, page 7, under a three-column head-

line: "CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba.

Says U.S. Leaders

Imperiled by Aid to Rebels." The story followed under the

HARKER by-line:

"Havana (AP) - Prime Minister

Fidel Castro said Saturday night: 'U.S.

leaders would be in danger if they helped

in any attempt to do away with leaders of

Cuba.'

SECRET

COC1.37

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

64

COPY

NO.

0 212

---

## Page 67

18-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

"Bitterly denouncing what he called

recent U.S. prompted raids on Cuban terri-

tory, Castro said: weare prepared to

fight them and answer in kind. U.S. leaders

should think

siabat if they are aiding terror-

ist plans to eliminate Cuban leaders, they

themselves will not be safe.'

... World affairs ... seemed to be

entering

a more peaceful climate a few days

ago, but now this trend has changed with

attacks.

""The U.S. is always ready to negotiate

and make promises which later it will not honor.

This has happened to promises made during the

October crisis. They have been broken as can

be seen with new attacks.

"'But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could lead to a worse

crisis than October"s ..."

6. The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September,

used a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference

to the warning and threat which gave the interview its real

significance. The Washington Post did an abbreviated re-

write (9 September, page A-7) which, similarly, omitted

any reference to the main thrust of CASTRO's remarks.

3.

SECRET

COCISES

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

65

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 68

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

The Evening Star of Washüngton, D. C., printed the HARKER

story nearly in its entirety in the second section of the

paper (9 September 1961, page B-4) and reworded the content

of the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the po-

litical

asp

- in particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER

elements and burying CASTRO's warning to the United States

leadership in the middle of the piece.

7. There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDY

assassination).that this CASTRO interview was considered in

following up leads or in dealings with the Warren Commission

and its staff although Mexico Station specifically directed

Headguarters attention to the AP story very shortly after

the Dallas killing. More important, the interview appears

to have been forgotten in the contemporary political consid

eration of relations with CASTRO's Cuba.

There is no evidence

in the Agency records, either, that the Warren Commission

staff itself pursued the implication of the CASIRO interview

in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no

evidence in the files that anything along these lines was

stated by any other Cuban leader before the assassination.

8. The purpose of this review, undertaken at Mr. Belin's

reguest, is to reconsider Lee Harvey OSWALD's activity on the

assumption that as an avid newspaper reader - which we know

from testimony of Marina OSWALD and others - he read the

CASTRO warning and threat as reported above. The results

4

SECRET

CC01939

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

66

COPY NO:

of 212

---

## Page 69

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

of the review, admittedly heavily using the 20 - 20 quality

of hindsight, may be stipulated in summary:

a.

There is no increment of credible

evidence, applying this phrase

strictly, of

soviet andfor Cuban political, intelligence

or security service involvement in the as-

sassination to what was developed and con-

sidered by the Warren Commission and Its

staff. The Commission's finding that

Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of

President KENNEDY and Officer TIPPIT and did

them in alone and of his own determination

stands.

b. "Credible evidence" that would

upset or significantly modify this judgement

did (and does) not exist in Washington. But

such evidence could exist in Moscow and/or

Havana, whose voluntary inputs to the warren

Commission were minimal in quantity and

quality, designed to cover up any admissions

of knowledge of, or connection with, OSWALD

which might be related directly or indirectly

with the assassination. Therefore, the belief

that there was Soviet and/or Cuban (KGB and Or

DGI) connection with OSWALD wil persist and

5

SECRET

CCC1940

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

67

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 70

13-00000:

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

•grow until there has been a full disclosure -

by these governments of all elements of

37274572799494

OSWALD's landling and stay in the Soviet Union

and

Dis contacts, in Mexico City.

The

Warren

Comradion report should have left a

wider "window" for this contingency. That,

indeed, was the opinion at the working level,

particularly in the counterintelligence com-

ponent in the CIA in 1964. As was indicated

by Mr. Helms in his testimony before the

Warren Commission, CIA would continue to

regard this aspect of the OSWALD case as

1

still open.

c. In the absence of additional of new

elements of "credible" evidence,

are

"nuances" in the record that emerge

as note-

worthy, in the light of other conclusions.

These are reviewed and summarized below, item

by-item.

a. CASTRO's warning and threat of

7 September 1963 -

if OSWALD did indeed read

Investigation of the Assassination of President John F.

KENNEDY.

Hearings Before the President's Commission

on the

Assassination of President KENNEDY (Washington,

1964) ,

hereafter cited as Hearings, Vol.

V., pp. 120 = 129. See

especially p.

124 - "Mr. Helms:

'Yes.. I would assume

the case could never be closed. '"

6

SECRET

C001541

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 68

_ 0 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 71

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

it in New Orleans - must be considered of

great significance; in the light of the

pathological evolution of OSWALD's passive/

aggressive makeup after his attempt to kill

Genexal walker early in Aprll 1963 and his

identification with Fidel CASTRO and the

Cuban revolution which is directly trace-

able as far back as his Marine Corps.

service in El TOrO, California. CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP corres-

pondent HARKER, irrespective of whether

there was any formal mandate, or even

security service contact with OSWALD:

by the Cubans of the Russians - was an act

of singular irresponsibility and under no

circumstances was excusable as retorsion

for what the Cuban emigres were doing during

the summer of 1963.

CUBAN CONTACT WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA,

EARLY 1959 (2)

9. The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion

of germinal significance to any review of the background of

Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with

CASTRO's Cuba. DELGADO was probably the closest peer group

7

SECRET

C001942

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

69

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 72

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

member to OSWALD during his specialist training period

at El Toro Marine COrpS Base December 1958 - September 1959.

The Warren Commission Report takes note of this:

OSWALD told DELGADO that he was in

Cuban diplomatic officials in

this country, which DELGADO at first took

to be 'one of his lies, but later

believed. '"2

10. Actually DELGADO's testimony says a lot more of

possible operational significance than is reflected by the

language of the report, and its implications do not appear

to have been run down or developed by investigation. Thus,

the record of the beginning of OSWALD's relationship with

the Cubans starts with a question mark.

.I1. The period was one of transition in U.S. - Cuban

relations after CASTRO's takeover. OSWALD, and DELGADO at

the outset, were CASTRO supporters, OSWALD being particu-

larly keen about how to get to the island. DELGADO testi-

fied:

".... I didn't know what to tell him, so

I told him the best thing. that I know was to

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination

of President John

KENNEDY (Washington, 1964), hereafter

cited

as Report, P.

687.

8

SECRET

CEC1943

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 70

COPY

NO:

of 212

---

## Page 73

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

get in touch with a Cuban Embassy, you know.

But at that time that f) told him this - we

were on friendly terns with Cuba, you know,

so this

wasn't

Subversion or malintent,

you know.

didn't know what to answer him.

I told him

to

see them.

"After a while he told me he was in

contact with them ...

" ... I seen this envelope in his foot-

locker, wall-locker, and it was addressed to

him, and they had an official seal on it, and

as far as I could recollect that was mail/from

Los Angeles, and he was telling ma,

there was

a Cuban Consul. And just after he

started

receiving these letters - you see, he would

never go out, but stay near the post all the

time ...

" ... he had one visitor after he started

receiving letters he had one visitor. It was

a man, because I got the call from the MP

guard shack, and they gave me a call that

OSWALD had a visitor at the front gate. This

man had to be a civilian, otherwise they would

have let him in., So I had to find somebody to

relieve OSWALD, who was on guard, to go down

: 9

SECRET

CCC1^44

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

11

COPY

NO.

c 212

---

## Page 74

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

there to visit with this fellow, and they spent

about an hour and a half, two hours, talking,

I guess, and he came back. I don't know who the

man was or what they talked about, but he looked

nonchalant)

about the whole thing when he came

back.

He never mentioned who he was, nothing.

"MI. LIEBELER: How long did he talk to

him, do you remember?

"MI. DELGADO : About an

bour

and balf,

two hours ...

"MI. LIEBELER:

You

asked OSWALD

who this fellow was that

"MI. DELGADO: NO. NO

"Mr. LIEBELER: Did you connect this visit

that OSWALD had at that time with the Cuban

Consulate?

"Mr. DELGADO : I did; because I thought it

funny for him to be receiving a caller at such a

late date - time. Also, up to this, time he

hardly ever received mail; in fact he seldom

received mail from home because I made it a

policy, I used to pick up the mail for our unit

and distribute, it to the guys in there, and very

seldom did I ever see one for him. But every so

often, after he started to get in contact with

10

SECRET

CCC1945

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

12

COPY NO.

of

212

---

## Page 75

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

these Cuban people,

pamphlets and newspapers

" ..

Started getting letter

arted receiving letters,

you know

books

maybe pamphlets, you

know,

church, things we get from

church, you

know, but it wasn't a church.

"MI. LIEBELER: Were they written to

Spanish, any of them, do you know?

"Mr. DELGADO: Not that i can recal

nO.

"MI. LIEBELER:

Did

to believe that these things

from the Cuban Consulate?

any reason

to OSWALD

"MY. DELGADO: Well, I took it for granted

that they did after I seen the envelope, you

know .. something like

a Mexican eagle, with a

big, impressive seal, you know. They had dif-

ferent colors on it.

red

and white; almost

looked like our

lors,

But I can't

recall the

knew it was in latin.

that. I couldn't under-

United, so

stand. It was Latin.

"Mr. LIEBELER:

You don't know for sure

whether it was from the Cuban Consulate?

11

SECRET

C001946

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 73

COPY

NO.

o212

---

## Page 76

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

"MI. DELGADO

NO.

But he had told me

prior, just, before

Infound that envelope in his

wall locker. that

herwas receiving mail from

them, and one Stime he offered to show it to me,

but i wasn

Rich interested because at the

time we had work to do, and I never did ask

to see that paper again, you know.

"Mr. LIEBELER: Did he tell you what his.

correspondence with the Cuban Consulate was

about?

"Mr. DELGADO: No, he didn't

"Mr. LIEBELER: Did he ever

indicate to you

that it had to do with the conversations

that

you had about going over to Cuba?

"Mr. DELGADO: No. . The only thing he

told me was that right after he had this con-

versation with the Cuban people was that he was

going to - once he got out of the service - he

was going to Switzerland... "3

12. OSWALD's application to Albert Schweitzer College,

Churwalden, Switzerland, was dated 19 March 1959, and he

was presumably to report there on 20 April 1960. Destined

for discharge from the Marines on 7. December 1959, OSWAID

Hearings, Volume VIII, pP. 241 - 243.

12

SECRET

C001947

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

14

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 77

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

accelerated his exit, on grounds of family hardship in early

September 1959.

2y september 197g he was issued a

u.s. passport valid fas

*gavel - among other places to

Cuba and

the

USER.

He entered the Soviet Union from

Finland

on

sober 1959.

13.

DELGADO'S

testimony has the cast of credibility.

Granting that, it is of basic importance to focus attention

on the male visitor who contacted OSWALD at El Toro Camp

and talked with him for between one and a half to two hours.

The event was unique in DELGADO's recollections, and actually

there is nothing like it - on the record - in everything else

we know about OSWALD's activity in the United States before

or after his return to the United States. The record reflects

no identification of the El Toro contact. DELGADO's presump-

tion is that he was from the Cuban Consulate in Los Angeles.

Assuming that, the questions are: Who was it, and was

there reporting

• From Los Angeles to Washington and Havana

that could, in

effect.

represent the opening of a Cuban

file on OSWARD?

"PREDICTION" OF

ESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEMISE BY COMMUNIST

PARTY CELL, LEADER' MORSE BENITEZ ZABOLA, 1962

14. Guatemala Station forwarded to Headquarters on

9 January 1964 a duplicate copy of à raw report by a

U.S./Cuban diplomatic and consular relations were severed

on 3 January 1961.

13

SECRET

C001948

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 75 • 212

COPY

---

## Page 78

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

penetration dated 5 danuasy

1962 describing

events at the

yearly communist Party cell

meeting. The cell leader,

MOrSe BENITED Labola,

said that the Communist Party in

Guatamala should for a single new party; "We need not

PrescEpy ougures over the polites of Bresident RANDy

because we know, according

to prognostications, that he

will die within the present year, 1962."

15. This report apparently had been discounted when

it was received and was not forwarded until the Station

re-reviewed all of its material after the assassination.

The file reflects no follow-up or formal dissemination

of the report.

ENIGMATIC THREAIS BY CUBAN THIRD SECRETARY IN THE HAUGE,

7 NOVEMBER 1963

16. A sensitive liaison source, reporting after the

KENNEDY assassination, indicated that at the Soviet reception

on 7 November 1963, the Cuban Third Secretary,

Ricardo I. SANTOS Pesa, discussed the recent refugee raids

on Cuba and their implications with a host-country diplomat,

concluding with the admonition: " ... Just wait and you

will see what we can do. It will happen soon." Asked to

be more specifig what would happen soon, SANTOS replied:

"Just wait, just wait."

17. These data were passed to the Warren Commission

by memorandum, 31 March 1964. SANTOS was reported to have

14

SEC

RET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CO(1945

PAGE

• 76

COPY NO.

0 212

---

## Page 79

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

a history of medical instability and was summarily recalled

from The Hague reportedly for reasons related to that fact

in April 1966.

INTERCEPTED CONVERSATIONVOF CUBAN EMBASSY

EMPLOYEE,

LUISA CALDERON, AFTERNOON OF 22 NOVEMBER 1963

18.

Mexico City time, about five hours after, the

KENNEDY assassination, a Cuban Embassy employee named

"Iuisa" received a telephone call in Spanish from an uniden

tified male outside.

19. The caller asked her if she had heard the latest

news. "Luisa" jokingly replied: "Yes, of sourse) I knew

it almost before KENNEDY ... Imagine, one, two, three and

now; that makes three [she laughs], what barbarians!

20. Both speakers agreed on the seriousness of the

assassination. "Luisa"

also stated that the party at

Silvia DURAN's had been called off so it would not appear

that they were celebrating the death of KENNEDY, nor would

they have the party, coincide with the burial. Finally she

said she planned ig move that night into the house of a

doctor (a womany friend.

21. Latin hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto suggestion

of foreknowledge? This is the only item in the intercept

coverage of the Cubans and Soviets after the assassination

that contains the suggestion of foreknowledge or expectation.

15

SE C

RE T

00C1950

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

77

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 80

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

22. The tenuous, enigmatic character of the conversation

is sharply highlighted by the following facts:

3 Eulsa" was probably identical saith

Luisa CALDERON; a Cadre worker of the Cuban

Directorate Caméral of Intelligence (DGI) .

She returned to Cuba in 1964 and was reported

to be working in DGI Headguarters.

b. The DGI element in Mexico City in the

fall of 1963 was headed by Alfredo MIRABEL Diaz

who had arrived on 2 September 1963, formally

•as the replacement of the Consul Eusebio AZCUE

(departed 19 November 1963). The deputy DGI

chief (and as of June 1964, MIRABEL'S SUCCESSOI)

was Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez.

c. The "Silvia DURAN" named in Luisa's

conversation was the receptionist, a Mexican

national, who dealt with OSWALD during his known

visits on 27 and 28 September to the Cuban

installations in connection with a Cuban visa

application for stay and/or transit.

Silvia DURAN is the sole live witness on the

record regarding OSWALD's activity in

Mexico City•

Her testimony, however, in its

entirety was taken and presented, solely, by the

Mexican Governmental authorities. A direct

16

SECRET

C001951

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

$ 78

COPY NO.

of

212

---

## Page 81

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

confrontation with

sider was requested by the

Warren Commission staff but rejected by the

Mexican authorities. It is from Silvia DURAN's

tatement that it was learned that OSWALD

betame engaged in a personal altercation on

27 September with Eusebio AZCUE.

d. Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez,

alias Marcos, and his DGI assistant,

Rogelis RODRIGUEZ Lopez, were positively

identified in February 1964 by two independent

sources as engaged in the active development

and facilitation of the training of Nicaraguan

agents for the purpose of assassinating

General Annstasio SOMOZA. VEGA, it is estab-

lished, was on post in Mexico City during

OSWALD's stay there 27 September - 2 October

1963. He left Mexico City on 3 November 1963

for Havana. It was reliably reported about

VEGA that all individuals going to Cuba, legally

or illegally, had to pass through him first. He

took the biographical data and sent it to Cuba

for name checking, a procedure which normally

took fifteen days. 5

For example, VEGA would have handled the details of the

visa action and facilitation of the trip to Cuba

Mexico City from 28 December 1962 - 21 January 1963 that

1.7

SECRET

0061552

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 79

- 0f 212

COPy NO.

---

## Page 82

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

*

SECRET

23. There-is

no' evidence in the OSWALD case file that

Silvia DURAN was sabjected to a systematic elicitative

intexrogation that would have related her dealings with

OSWARD, KRONg

or confirmed by intercept, with the data held

on the cuban

DGI, its personalities and methods, in

Mexico City. Was it normal for a case like OSWALD's,

considering the fuss he allegedly made with AZCUE, for

the

applications to be handled solely by a local employee and

a lame duck like AZCUE whose slot had been taken by the

DGI chief?

Whatever the answer to these questions, they

were not asked at the time. And there remains the more

fundamental question: accepting the DURAN story on its

face, could it have happened without the knowledge and

participation of the DGI personnel above cited? This

seems unlikely especially because VEGA is later &

ited

a Cuban DEI defector as having stated he was aware OSWArD

made several visits to the Cuban Consulate. It is clear

CASTRO's overseas intelligence and security service could

have more in its files than was surfaced in the DURAN

was taken by Vincent Theodore LEE, the organizer of the

Fair Play Committee for Cuba, with which OSWALD established

relations from Dallas during the period 19 April -

2 November 1963.

VEGA's travels to Havana during that period: VEGA

departed Mexico City on 6 January for Havana and returned

on 13 February 1963.

18

SECRET

CCC1:53

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

80

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 83

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

statements.. Coming back to the beginning: "Luisa" -

Luisa CALDERON - as a member of the DEI unit in Mexico City -

could very well have known something that would make what

she said to her unidentitied caller less a matter of

boastful self-indulgence than was assumed at the time.

SILVIA DURAN,

SUBSTANTIAL AMPLIFICATION OF ADMISSION OF

ALLEGED PERSONAL, RELATIONS WITH LEE HARVEY-OSWALD, - 1967

24. The defects viewed in hindsight of the Silvia. DURAN

testimony already have been suggested above. (In that

context of criticism it would also be relevant to reconsider

the implications of the two intercepted telephone conversations

on 26 November 1963 between the Cuban President, DORTICOS,

and his Ambassador to Mexico, Joaquim Hernandez ARMAS,

because the thrust of the conversation dealt with the ques

tion whether Silvia DURAN had been

asked about lor been

offered?] money payments by her Mexican interrogators.)

25. As of September 1964 Silvia DURAN gave up her

Cuban Embassy job. In the spring of 1967 Silvia DURAN

was reported by a reliable and sensitive

source to have

cut all relations with Cubans. Her account, in 1967 0f

how she had been taken into custody and had been interrogated

after the assassination repeated what was already known.

She added, under circumstances that did not permit the,

source to challenge of elicit corroborative detally that

19

SECRET.

0001954

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

81 0 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 84

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

She had gone out with OSWALD

during his stay in Mexico City

and claimed she had sexual relations with him.

ALLEGATIONS OF CONSPIRATORIAL CONTACT BETWEEN OSWALD AND

CUBAN GOVERNMENT AGENTS WITH PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO

ALLEGATIONS OF (A) ELENA GARRO DE PRAZ AND

(B) OSCAR CONTRERAS

268

Warren Commission reported, "Literally

dozens of alegations of a conspiratorial contact between

OSWALD and agents of the Cuban Government have been

investigated

...."6 Among these cases, which consumed

hundreds of CIA man-hours in Headquarters and abroad

and similarly the FBI in the United States was the

Nicaraguan walkin in Mexico City, 26 November

1983,

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.

27. The ALVARADO case is taken up in detail by the

Warren Conmission under the cryptograph "D."' ALVARADO

claimed that he had seen an American, whom he identified

as OSWALD, receive money some time in mid-September 1963

in a meeting in a patio of the Cuban Consulate in

6

See Report, p. 305 ff., Some of the others were the cases

of Ylario

ROJAS Villenueve in Cozumel and Guadaloupe,

the allegations of Enrique Ruedolo GONGORA in New York City,

the claims of Robert Edward GALLANT, Santa Clara Prison

Farm, California, and the allegations of Ray DOBKIN's.

See Report,

307 - 308.

20

SECRET

C001955

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

'PAGE

82

COPY NO.

08 212

---

## Page 85

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

Mexico city. ALVARADO's story was ultimately broken by the

use of the polygraphs on which ALVARADO showed evidences of

deception, and by bringing ALVARADO's former Nicaraguan

security service contral into the case.

28.

The ALVARADa story is a particularly acute repre-

sentation of the difficulties that beset the evaluation of

observed eff

dence: certain elements of the story persist

despite the impeachment of its major premises. ALVARADO,

whose account did not becone public until the release of

the Warren Report in October 1964, talked consistently of

the presence in the Cuban Consulate transaction of a Negro

with red-dyed hair.

29. Elena GARRO de Paz is a mecurial, articulate and

socially prominent Mexican writer, married, but separated

from a high-ranking Mexican foreign service official. She

is also the cousin of Horacio DURAN, the husband of

Silvia DURAN, cited above. There is a strong personal

antipathy between the two women descending from

Elena GARRO's trenchant anti-Communism,

30. FrOM October 1964 until his retirement in the fall

of 1969, a U.S. Embassy officer, Charles THOMAS, persistently

kept up a stream of reports and memoranda reflecting GARRO's

account of what had actually gone on between OSWALD, the

Cubans and in particular Silvia DURAN in September 1963,

including a repeated reference to a Negro with red-dyed hair.

: 21

SECRET

0001.956

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

83

COPY

NO.

0≤ 212

---

## Page 86

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

31. The first reference to the GARRO story was noted in

a Mexico Station Memorandum of Record dated 12 October 1964:

"Elena GARRO [said] that she and her

daughter were invited to a party at the Cuban

Embassy daring the period she now finds out

that Oswats was here in Mexico prior to the

assassination. She was invited by a Mexican

secretary in the Cuban Embassy whose husband

is a cousin of the GARRO family (Horacio DURAN].

At the party she saw three Gringos, not

drinking, not mixing and more or less just

standing around together like three bumps on a

log. They were so obviously out of place that

she asked someone in the Cuban Embassy about

them and was told that they were just passing

through. She claims that ön the way these

three Gringos stood out she took a good look

at them as did her daughter. When the

assassination occurred and OSWALD's picture was

spread into the newspapers, both Elena and

her daughter immediately said that he was one

of the three Gringos. "without a doubt' at the

party."

32. GARRO repeated her story to Mr. Charles William

THOMAS, an Embassy political officer on 10 December 1965:

22

SECRET

CC01:07

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 84

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 87

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

In September 1963 after her return from abroad, she went

to a paxty, eccompanied by her daughter, at the home of

Ruben DURAN (emphasis addedl. Ruben is one of the two

brothers of Horacio DURAN, who married her cousin. She

met

osward and two other young Americans. At the party

she was discouraged from talking with him. Other guests

were the Cuban Consul AZCUE, General Clark PLORES,

Silvia DURAN, who she later learned was OSWALD's mistress

while he was here, Emilio CARBALLIDO and a Latin American

Negro man with red hair (emphasis added]. In November 1963

when the identity of the assassin became known, she and

her daughter went to the Cuban Embassy and shouted

"assassins" and other insults at the staff there.?

Shortly

afterward, she and her daughter were visited by a friend,

Manuel CARVILLO [OT CALVILIO], then an official in the

Secretariat of the Gobernacion and were told he had orders

to escort them to a

smal Vand obscure hotel in the center

of town.

ey were,

kept there for eight days under pretext

that they

anger. When she told CARVILLO she wanted

to go to the American Embassy and explain what she knew of

OSWALD, she was told that the American Embassy was full of

Communist spies.

33. On 25 December 1965 and 9 January 1966 in further

interviews with THOMAS, GARRO and her daughter elaborated and

8

These

particulars were not confirmed by independent observers

at the

time.

23

SECRET

C001.58

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

85

PAGE

COPY NO.

09 212

---

## Page 88

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

in certain particular significantly modified her earlier

account. She also acknowledged that she and her daughter

had been daterviewed by embassy officers to whom she claimed

they did not give a'very complete story because the

Embagsy offices did not appear to give much credence

to

anything

they said.

34. It developed that GARRO and daughter had been

interviewed by the legal Attache on 17 and 24 Makember I964.

Her information had been similar to what she claimed in her

account to THOMAS but had not been substa@tiated by anguiries.

The FBI representative therefore considered the matter closed

and reaffirmed his disengagement from the matter to the CIA

Chief of Station on 27 December 1964 and to the Ambassador

on 25 February 1965.

35. The Embassy Palitical Officer, however, persisted in

his interviews and reporting. In a memorandum of conversation,

13 July 1966, GARRO identified the place to which she had been

taken by CALVILLO as the Hotel Vermont.

(This detail checked

out_

affirmatively: CARRO was at the Hotel 23 - 24, 25 - 27

and 28 - 30 November 1963. In another, on 7 February 1967,

GARRO's

Missitudes with the Cubans are set out.

And final'

THOMAS's retirement from U.S. "Government

service, the Department of State, at his request,

28 August 1969, disseminated to CIA and FBI a compilation of

his reporting of the Elena GARRO interviews.

24

SECRET

CeC1. 53

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

86

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 89

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

- 36.

There the matter rests.

GARRO's chronology of the

events she described as having occurred in the Mexican capital

in September 1963 never coincided with the confirmed data

of OSWALD's presence there.

Her story, however, had two

points. congruant with allegations by others regarding

OSWALD:

a.

VARADO's allegations regarding the

Negro with the red-dyed hair (this detail could,

however, have been gleaned from the

Warren Commission's published account of the

"D" casel and

b. Silvia DURAN's later claim of

intimate personal contacts with OSWA

37. Beginning in March and amplified in

1967, the

American Consul, Benjamin J. RUYLE, in Tampico developed a

contact with a local Mexican journalist,

Oscar CONTRERAS Lartigue, who claired to have encountered

OSWALD with other pro-CASTRO students at the

University of Mexico campus in September 1963.

38. In June 1969 CONTRERAS was interviewed by a CIA

officer:

He studied law at the University of Mexico

for three years,

approximately 1960 - 1964.

He

belonged to a clandestine pro-CASTRO revolutionary

group at the University. Regarding the OSWALD

25

SECRET

C0C1.60

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

87

PAGE

COPY NO.

of

212

---

## Page 90

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

case he was extremely cautious and although he

was not able of witling to give dates and

names, he said OSWALD visited the University

of Mexi

Do gampud shortly after the Cuban

Embass

efused him a visa to visit Cuba.

nquiries regarding pro-Cuban

revolutionary groups at the University and

was directed to CONTRERAS and his friend.

OSWALD met CONTRERAS and four other persons.

as they came out of a round-table discussion

held in the faculty of Philosophy:

OSWALD

told the group it was urgent that be visit

Cuba and the Cuban Embassy had dented him a

visa. He requested aid fron CONTRERÁS' grOUp.

CONTRERAS and others mistrusted OSWALD because

they felt he was a CIA provocation.

The group

allowed OSWALD to accompany them the rest of the

day, that night and part af the next day. OSWALD

was very introverted and appeared to be slightly

crazy. OSWALD made nogmention of an assassination

nging up the point he had to

travel to

mediately.

39. At this

with FBI knowledge, the matter was

turned over to the Mexican

authorities who deteimined that

CONTRERAS. was indeed at the University of Mexico but only

26

SECRET

0801961

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

88

PAGE

COPY NO.

of

21?

---

## Page 91

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

for the years 1959 - 1960 and that he had been publicly

associated in protest astivity for the Student Revolutionary

Bloc (BER) in January 196}.

However, the group ceased

functioning as such in thé middle of 1962, and

Oscar CONTRERAS was never one of its leaders. No further

work is

retreats the files on the coverals allegacions.

Apart from the unsustained claims made by CONTRERAS about

his own presence at the University, there is an additional

element that undermines the credibility of his account:

OSWALD's Spanish, which was barely adequate to get him meals

near the hotel, seems hardly likely to have permitted him to

carly on for an extended period with

adversity student

group®

27

SECRET

0001962

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

89

_ 08212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 92

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22594

31 January 1964

SUBJECT:

nation Developed by ClA on the

# to do at

Farvoy OSWALD is

Mesico City, 28 September - 3 Cetaber 1963

as Transmitted to Warren

Commission

do I am enclosi

- apresentation of the irformation

developed by CIA on on about Len Harvey CHAID in Mexico

City. We bave incladed in this paper only bard, substative

Information, Ayy judgments that are made remestat yo

fessional evaluations by individuals who have worked over

the years as spaelalista in their fields. Speculation, sumos,

and vague detail not directly related to OSWALD? activity

have not bees inchaded.

2o Purgeant to 0ur discussion os 14 January 1764, I

bare gires the enelosure an appropriate clasaification, I3e

compremiue of this mnterial in irs present forma ould lead

directly to tbe destruction a current sources and methoda of

this Agescy in Mexico and elsewbere.

Docuisen Number 509-803

(signed)

Richard Heles

for FOLA Reviem 01: MA 1976 Deputy Director for Plana

Enclosee

to

Orig & 1 • Addressee w/att

1 . DDP w/att

1 - WH/3 (ME. Whitter) w/att

X. Chief, CI/R&A w/att /

CI/RGRocca:de/ 31 January 1964

CS COPY

CIA dated 10 7e6 1964

s10.

, ATT.

201-289245

31 dau li.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

c002r07

PAGE

134 212

COPY NO.

# D 2566

---

## Page 93

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECHE/

V.'.

SE:

31J004257 195%

1-de, P116

Information Developed by CIA on tac Activity of

Leo Farvay OSWALD inalecrico City

2P Septombo: - 3,6ci03e 1963

I. OSVALJ'S Activity in Viesico City

1. On 9 Ostobért tae GIA Station in Mexico City iccoived

the following laformation fibon a reliable and proven source:

Ail American named ive OSWALD had costicsed

the Soviet Embassy iz, Mesico City on Tuesday, l Octobes

1963. He bad spoken in balting Russiza to tse Soviet

Embassy guard, Ivan Ivazovic's OBYEDKOV, tu wkom

he said ho had visited the Imbassy two days earlier,

Saturday, 29 Septomber. I asked whether there had

been a reply to & telegran, that the Consul with whom be

bad spoken, but whose name he could not recall, had

promised to serd to Washingtos.. OBYEDKOV had

attempted to establich the mintity of the Consul with

whom OSWALD had saliedi l ii had been a dari cursor.

then it had grabably been kOSTIKOV, OBYEDIOV,

WARNING NOTOE

SECRET SENSIVE SCURES ANO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

COC2rC8

PAGE

COPY NO.

135

of

212

---

## Page 94

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEINET

after a chock with Sovic: Consular persomnel, assured

OSWALD tha telegram had been scat to Washiagton but

no answer had been received.

T'ho information vas forwarded by fablo to CIA Ficadquarters

tho samo day it was receiyeco

matters rovealed the possibility of an ideatity between the Lac

OSWALD woo had spoken with OSYEDKOV, and presumably

with KOSTIKOV, and the defector returnee, Lee HaIvey OSWAID, *

3. On 10 October 1963 CIA Headquarters disemizated by

cable tie report in substantially the form and in the detail

indicatad above, is paragraph 1, to the Federalagoncies whose

juisdictiona interesta had been establiched by a reviow of

OSWALD's file: the Federal Burcau of Irvestigation, the Depart

* The CIA filo on Ice Harvey OSWALD was opezed on 9 Decomber

1960 to accommodate biographic information developed by CIA in

response to an inquiry from the Department o Stato on a list oi

Amrican defectors in Sovict Bloc countrios. OSWALD'S was

among the names in the list.

was dated 25. October 1950. An interim reply was gives by ClA

O3 3 Noverider 1960; a final reply, oa 21 November 1950.

ea-ly October 1953 tse contents a tas OSWALD tile hold by ClA

consisted entircly; of press materiala ard disseminations

=ecoived from tho Depatnost o State, the Fede al Bureau of

Investigation, and the Navy Departmest.

licionesid

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

136 o212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 95

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

AND

mont de State, the Navy Dopa tinost, aud the Immigration aed

Naturalization Servico, A commont was incided in the repart

noting the likelihood that the subjeci, Ice OSWALD, vas

probably identical with the formac viarise wio had deiccica to

tho Soviet Union in 1959. (I'he report disseminated by CIA in

Washingtoz on 10 Cosober also isclulcd a physical descripsion

aí an individual wão vas believed to have been tie OSWALD who!

bad costacted the Soviets in Mesico City. It was suosequen

established by investigation that the description dia not pertaia

tO OSWALD. I

* On the same day, 10 October 1953, CIA Headquasiors

Best a lengthy cable summary to the Moxico City Station of the

bzekground inforration hold in the inadquasters: file oa

OSWALD. An instruction was inciled for the Mesico City

Station to pasa the substance of its 9 Cctober ropozi to the local

representatives of the same Federzi departments and ageacies

that had been given the information in Washington, This

instruction was immediately carriec out. In this manner the

information on OSWALD'a contact with the Soviets on 1 October

was gassed in Mesico: City to the Embassy, the fBi representative,

tio Naval Attacho, aad to the office of the Immigration and

Naturalination Service. These were no requests from recitants o

the report for further information or for follow-up investigation

WARi

- 3.

•SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

MITHOOS INVOLVE?

-..---

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

GCC2610

PAGE

137 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 96

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

5. Aitor the assassination of President icnaady and the

JErUst Of ICe ZarVoy OSWAL d Latensivo seview os a11

available souscos was maderaton la ioxico City to deterraine

E3 pusposgaOSVALD's ricia it was learned that OSWALD

1ae also picited tho Cuba. Consuiate la Mexico City and ind

cal'soù thoro mena clors, a Mozican rational, samad Sulvia

DURAN. After the assassination and too publicity about Ice

OSWALD, Silvia DURAi bad told a suraber of relativos aad

slonds that she had talkei to OSWALD about a Cubas visa.

Silvia DURAN and he= husband, Fiorazio DURAN Navazzo, were

detalned and questioned by the Mexican polico froza 23 to 25

November 1963.

6. After giving some of the doss ils of her own personal

background - she Is an auraitted leitist sympatilzer and bad

foracaly worked for the Mesica=-Cubar Instituto os Cultural

Rolationa - Silvia DURAN said that woon she first heard of the

dast of Presideat Kennedy eño!

been deprossed and taought

she assassin must bave been a maniac. When she learsed shat

ho was associated with the "Fale Play for Cubz Coramalttea"

she did not bo

7. She talked about tus case io her husbaad and when sie

heard the same of ICe OSWALD sentioned, she recogized it as

WARING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SCORES ANG

IVE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C2/11

PAGE

138

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 97

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

tie man sio had come co te Consulato about two months befoic

to set a vida a transit, Ee ga dis way to she Use?. She

¿calizod that herdad said he was married to a fussian and thai

as bag fallonged to da "Fait, Play for Cuba" e

group. She checised

es file on him in tho Concular archivos and frora the dascitivo

data, sha was suro it was the same man. He was short, blond,

poorly dressed and his face goi sod when he talled sie was

denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have a Soviot

visa, and he was told to get to Soviet visa flrst.. but it was noted

has this would take about four montas. She had asiced to Cuban

Consul himseli, Eusebio AZCUE, to talk to OSWALD and they

had an argument when AZCUE urged OSWALD to leave Mesico

instead of waiting there. The Consul had phoned tue Sovie: Con-

sulste and talked to the person handling OSWALD's case, whu

had said it would take about four months to hear from Moscow

about the Sovici visa. The camelsternoon, OSWALD had como

back again and she had tafd

the same thing. Sho gavo

OSWALD a slip off@per vita lie ome and talophone sumbar oa

It is case ha

got his Sovièt visa. He did not call bacis, she sald..

8. Silvia DURANUs husband, Horacio DURAN Navarro, gavo

essentlally the same story, as he had previously heard it from

his wilo aiter the assassinatlon. He had never had any persoaal

contact with OSWALD.

0%S-R31

787.20

ME NOTICE

ere poor salaps ago to an a mas o

SaviSiTive Soundis-

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/12

PAGE

139

• 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 98

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

90HCE

9. Siivia DURAN was reintesrogated by tho Micaican police

from 27 to 28 Noveruez ful she did not change or add materially

to her story about OSWALD.

100 E la nowa that so Guan Ambasador in Vesico,

JOaqUi FERNANDEZ Armac, reposted on

intcrrogatigu

105.

The

Cuban Goverament sent the Mcrican Goverament a stir note o

protest, which the Mexicans - ejected.

overber

11. We are zeliabir informed that on 26 so semissy

day aíter DURAN's release, Cuban STelident DONINCOS querica

FERNANDEZ about lis F0JOjt. FIRNANDEZ confismed, that

there bad beca an alicacation botween CSWALD zad Consul

AZCUE. DORIICOS made a pessictent but unsuccessfu? fiort

to determine from HERNANDEZ whether tho Mexican authorities

and questioned Mrs. DURAN about money, or thought that the

Cubans hat paid OSWALD mergy.

12. -The CIA follow-up inveutigation preduced the following

confirmed resulta

Is which have a beazing on Mia. DURAN's aecount:

do 27 September, In mid-afternooz, Silvia DUSAN

infos med the Sovies Embassy that a male American citizen

bad reguested a visa to transit Cuba on his way to the

NG LONG-

SENS!

8 am.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/13

PAGE

140 • 212

COPY NO..

---

## Page 99

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE:

Soviot Union. She desired to know who the Amorican had

talkod wita =s thá Corios Consulate. Also, so ladichiod

that the Guian Consulate coul grast him the visa and

arrange immigration details il the conceasion of a Soviet

Wina wore saurd.

7 September. Purcuant to her inquiry, Silvia

DURAN received a coafirmation ir on the Sovict Embassy

that the American had beon to the USSR inatallation. #e

Ind showa them a letter isom the Soviet Consulato into

Washingion indicating that be lad becs logg awatting a

visa for himself and lis vile to go to the

•USSE. No

answer had come ro. Wachingion; however, the waiting

period was somctimes for oi five months, The American

also had a letter attosiing that le was a member of a pro-

Cuban orgarination but he bad-claimed that the Cubana

would no: give him a visa unicas ho had already received

a Russian visa. -

Although the American was still at tho Cubai

Consulate, Silvia

guzu repeated that ae douid not sive

him a transit visa unices & Soviet visa was forthconsing,

notwithstanding the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait

-7-

FEE

SOURCES ANS

KETHODS INVOL SE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

00C2014

PAGE

141 • 212

COPY. NO.

---

## Page 100

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

rad

SE:

there for bia Soviet vist. According to DURAN, tho

Amozican know da dadjur Cusa and são istoaded to

appropriately annato l American's card, Ihe Soviet

28 Septenber. Silvi DURIN was again viaited

st tie Cubaa Embassy la Viesico Gizy by the American

secking a Cuban transit visa. Mrs. DURAN contacted at

least two membera of tho Soviet Imbaasy and facilitatod

= diroct convessation betsvee ane of the Saristé and ise

American, Conversing in 200- Russias

tac American

stated that he alicady had secu to te Soviet Consulate

and had ict an address. The Soviet official replied that

he was aware d that. The American sugrested that he

had not known his address then, and he had gone to the

Cubaz Erabassy to a8l for tha address, because they pad

15. The American then accoded to the Soviet official's

invitation to come by and give them the addresa.

d. 1 October.

In mid-morning an uniderslied

individual, speaki

"broen Russian, coracted the Sovict

Military Attacho in Mexico City, Ho said he had been to

WARNE WANTS

S649ES

S5e.da

22S INVOLVES

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/15

PAGE

142

- 03212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 101

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

H0t213

METHODS 1.

tac Embassy tho previoua Satuday (R8 Septeruca) and

had talked with a Cousul who had said they would send a

telegram to Washington. had tiere been a roply? He

var referred to the Coadulase for the iaformation.

Thesc additional materiale were mournatly disseminates in

Washington by the CIA to die Wale House, the Departmost of

State, aid the Federal Sucar of investination

e. I Octobes, See paragzapa I above fos Ice

OSWALD's contact wish to Soviet Coasuletci

II. Valoriy Vlediniovie: KOSEROV

13. It is believed that the Soviet official wish whom

OSVAID dealt in Messico City wes Consular Altache Valeriy

Vidimirovich KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933.

A photograpa d KOSIIKOV is attached. In his letter ce

? November to toe Soviet Consulase in Wasbiatos, OSWALA

wrote about his umeetings tilt Comsado SOSTIN (sic) es zie

Soviet Union la Mesico City Mesigo. " There la ta affietal

aí the Soviet Embasty i Mexico City with a name resembling

"ISOSTIN", other than Consul KOSTILOV.

14. KOSTIOV is the serics dificer of five Soviot

Consular representatives who deal with visas ani rolaied

1:D1

CE

Z SOURCES AND

-TOOS' INVOKE

6002/16

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

143

PAGE

COPY NO.

08. 212

---

## Page 102

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

13 SECRET

RECORDS-OFFICER:

Cherollowing action Is

authgrized: DE SENSITIZE

: DIRECTOR

ROM & MEXICO CITY

ES COPYi

Signed:

ICTION, C/SR 5.

(MO. B 15SUES AT 0030,

MR. REICHHARDT,

24 NOY 63 Wa)

NFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/CT/OPS, C/FI, C/WH2, D/OS 2, VR

3)

It destruction,

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriato..

SECRET 240406Z

IMMEDIATE DIR

CITE MEXI 7045

YEA? REDWOOD LCIMFROVE

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1975

REF

DIR

848

ELRRIMPDET CL BY 012208

PROVIDED BELOW SUFFICIENTLY DEFINITIVE SUMMART OF LOCAL

2H0 63 1157281

Seepay

of

Tubp

1977I6K

CONTACTS IVAN GAVRILOVICH ALFER IEV CUNLESS OTHERWISE STATED,

INFO FROM LIENVOYD. 18, 19, 23 NOV E0 CONTACTS WITH ENRIQUETA COBEL

OF GOM RE EXTENSION OF COURTESY PERMIT FOR SELF REMAIN IN MEXI

1D, 11 NOV 60 WITH FNU VARELA RE DELIVERY OF SUBJ'S FURNITURE.

•$" NOV 62 AND 7 MAR 6I WITH JUAN SEDILLO RE INSURANCE SUBJ CAR.

•S NO 60 SERGIO DURAN OF NATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK RE PICKUP

OF MONEY. 14, 15 NOV HUMBERTO GONZALEZ RE PICKING UP NEW CAR.

25 -28 NOV SUBJ TREATED AT SANATORIO REFORMA CUSUALLY USED SY

BY, WELL KNOWN LEFTIST DR. CARLOS NOBLE HOYO WHO

USED

for FOIA Review on

FREQUENTLY BY SOVS. 23 DEC WITH THIRD SEC CUBAN CULTURAL ATTACHE

TERESA PROENZA-RE ARRANGINE PRESS CONFERENCE FOR ROLANDO CUSELA

PRESIDENT OF CUSAN FEUE

18 FEB AND 20 MAR 61 WITH DENTIST DR.

Document Number.

18-559

LESLIE VALERY FON

KAPPOINTMENT FIX SON'S TELTH. VALERY.

201-289248

FREQUENTLY USED BY SOVS. 1 MAR ARRANGES MEETING WITH IGNACIO AC25TA

LACUNES, PROMINENT PRO COMMIE AIDE OF GEN LAZARO CARDENAS.

28

MAR ENU FEMALE MANJARREZ (PHONES CANYO" MONITOR SELLEVES BE ANER ISN

D: 200-5-41

200541

SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEL

24 Nov 63

Copy iNo

' REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/17

PAGE

144 •

212

COFY

NO.

2567

---

## Page 103

13-00000*

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 6720: PAGE 2

TALKS FAMILIARLY WITH SUBJ AND

INVITES HIM TO FRESS CONFERENCE. DO

TURE AT HOTEL REFORMA WHERE A CUEAN TO SPEAK. 3 MAY WITH GUADALUS

PEREZ MACIA OF GOBERNACION RE OBTAINING UNDETERMINED) VISA. 5

JUNE AND 6 JULY WITH OSCAR SANTAELLA, FORD SALESMAN. & JUNE WITH

JUAN GARGIA AND FNU PEREZ'

OR OZCO, DODGE SALESMEN. 2 AUG CALLS

ROCER OR ROSEPT KAIZ OF "FRANCE PRESSE" TO INVITE TO SOVEMB PRESS

CONFERENCE.

MAY AND 16 JUNE 1962 CALLS EDMUNDO JARDON OF PRENSA

LATINA TO GET TOGETHER. 14 JUNE ASKS SPEAK WITH DRO GUILLERYO

MONTANO ISLAS, PROMINENT MEXICAN PRO CONNIE LEADER WELL KNGUN

MOS. 22 JUNE HE AND TASS REP ANATOLIY PAVLENKO INVITED. TO LUNCHEON

BY MEXICAN PRESIDENT'S PRESS SEC HUMBERTO ROMERO. 25 EP IS INVITED

TO LUNCHEON WITH DR. IGNACIO CHAVEZ, RECTOR AT UNAM. 3 DEC ACCEPTS

INVITE ATTEND BUFFET FOR FRESS ON BEHALF CARL J. HIDAIL, U.S.

NEWS AND WORLD REPORT. 23 JAN S3 HORACIO CHANCACLINI OF UNITED

NATIONS POSTPONES HIS APROGNTIENT WITH SUBJ. 19 FEB FNU SABINO

CASRERA OF INSURANCE FIRURE PAYNENTS. 8 MAR INVITES CANADIAN

NEN SPAPERMAN JOHN ALIUS IO STAG DINNER.

38 APR REQUESTS APOSINTHENT

WITH RICARDO POERY CERVANTES, PROMINENT LEFTIST

_JQURNAL IST IN

-CLOSE FREQUENT CONTACE SOUS. 15 AND 17 PAY TALKS WIE NEW Y33K

TINES REP PAUL KENEDY WHO INVITES SUBJ DINNER 26 BAY. 18 Y

DIRECTOR OF VOZ DE MEXICO AND POM CENTRAL COMMITTEEMAN MANUEL

TERRAZAS GUERRERO, ASKS SUBJ FOR SOV FINANCIAL SUBSIDY+: 23-MAY"

SUBJ CALLS JOHN RETTIE (SEE MEXI 4743). 14 JUNE CALLS WELL KNOWS

LEFTIST CLEMENTINA BASSOLS TO INTERVIEW HER.

14 OOT INVITES

END IQUE LOUDET OF EXCELSIOR TO SOVENE RECEPTION BEHALF COSMONAUTE.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/18

PAGE

145 •г 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 104

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3 128:

CLÄSSIFIED MESSAGE

14 OCT INVITES JAVIER SANTOS LORENT OF NOVEDADES TO SANO NE

30 OCT UNSUCCESSFULLY TRIES CONTACT CLEMENIINA BASSOLS.

1 1:

TRIES CONTACT RICARDO POERY CERVANTES. IA

AND

15 NOV ARRANSCH BIE

VIFCINIA

COMEZ

LETO, LEFTIST AND PARANOUR OF POERY.

SE CRE

C/S CONMENT: # REQUESTED INFO RE TRAVEL. VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH KOSTIKOY,

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G062/15

PAGE

COPY

NO.

146 •212

---

## Page 105

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

124* 1: J3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

EXT

DATE :

TO

SP.OM :

O INDEX

5613

25 Nov 63

O NO INDEX

DI FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ATI:

R. U.

FEDERAL EURRAY O LIVISLIGAIIOS

CENTRAT, INITTTGENER AGUICI

P.OUTIXS

$ 1

Core: C/WH 4

INFO: OCt, DDP, C/CI 2

DEFERP.2D

ROUTINE

VR#

IS 80R'A

INFO

JESYET/90 FURRIC DISSIA

CITE DIR

85246.

38 JOSBIGI

ITTERMO AGUIRRE OF MIXICO TOLD THE FOLLONING

IIPCELAATON LO PSISA MORIGA, UNTIS STATES INTORMALION/OETICIR II MENICO CINT:

MARZA RODRICIE DE LOPEZ, SAI A SON IN IN GE FERE

FARNESTO RODRIGUEZ,

SEO DIVES I TEX CHIZATS WIS TELE ACRIAINIED HINE

SOr

IN LA# IS A CUBAN NEO LIVES AS 222 JENPERSON PARRISE, ISH ORIZANS,

Trai: VERON 5-9658.

ARRESTO RODRIGUEZ FUNS A SPANISE LANGUACE SCHOOL.

ARID IS ANTI CASIRO. ACCORDILIG TO MARIA RODRIGUSZ, DE LOPSI HER SON

II LA JAS A INES CONVERSARIOSI VI CHAnP Number 113-48

for FOIA Raview on APR 1976

FYD OF MESSAGS

C/S COMMENT: * DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT GPFLOOR CABLES.

D: 200-5-41

C3. 007'/

Аам

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1979

_IMPGET CL 8Y O1Z2 OF

201-289248

26 Nov63

C/RE/3C

RELEASING OFFICER

INATING OFFICERS

GROUP !

Escluded tram automatic

SECBET

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN, THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

C002/ 20

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

147 •≤ 212

COPY

NO.

# 02568

---

## Page 106

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

TO

33041

SEGRET

DOC. MICRO, SER

MAY 1 5 1975

MICROFILMED

Director

Federal Sureau ôf Investigation

Atteation:

LT. 5, J. Papica

: toputy Diroctor (Rlasa)

27/10063

87602

Erife

NES 1. 23. 14-

EER IB. ER

SCANE EE (3n

201-3:5052

1.

sortardod as Attachaat A 13s resumo of the ouserred

01-3317010t2744109 of Valer Vadintroricn FosTIkay end Iyan Carrilo

MciIsrIsy as reported by a retiable source 1a llaxico City.

Ittention was given to kostIkoY because of the lidleattos

COASAi

lia Mlitaes

inthe Mantil

17e beit

incortecé

ifosiintes

that be ts the consujino intesylaned OstAlD on 28 sentember.

1853 (s0e CSC1-3/773,825,

25 Hovenber 1563)• AITARISY 2

ellod nith sosmiioy to hortuorn lezieo durinz the early part

c] Segtenber 1963.

sonrce reportad that curiag ma perlod

iinder revien the obaurred activitien al IosTIWY and AlZzIsy

appeared to be noranl, as did the aativities oi the entire

Soviet Anmaasy conpernte

Porvarded an Attachnent. B 19 a jesune o3 telertuze

calls placed to and frcs the soyiet Isbasay on the alterzoon

o$ 22 Novenber.

Azalyata'of cnlls nade the sorning of

22 Novenber and the brutag and aitessoon oi 33 Movenber re

pealed no pertisent sa rrston

Techaical suvetIl

of the hones of severa1 know

nent information.

Forwarded as ittaciment c is a list Icoatliying the

Sovleta whose nanes apppar in Attachnents A and B.

Because of the exirene senaitivlty of the encloaed

Intoraation, us urge that the source data ara the leroraation

be given the nost setare baadling pousiblo.

This information

l] los background use only and may not. be disseminated vitzout

peimission fron thts Agency.

RECORD COPY

Documient Numbor 18.7-622

for FOIA: Reyiew on APR 1976

C3C1-3/773,881

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

24 MAY 1975

CONDUCTED CN

IMPDET CL BY 61220

SECHET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

27 licv63

201-289248

C002/ 21

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

148 •≤212

COPY

NO.

D2569

---

## Page 107

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2 -

m/3/iexico/Terry Hardiard

Distribuzion:

Grig. de

1 - Addressee

1 - RI (201-299248)

- CI/LIA

- CI/TRA

CI/SIG

• SR/CI

- 13/3

27 November 1363

BASICS:

MEXI- 7050

215X7 - 7038

38X] -7036

MEXI- 7034

HEXI-7032

NO PROJECT

(IN 67292)

(IN 67253)

(IN 07237)

(117-67231)

(IT 67198)

SEGRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

6002/22

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

FAGE

149 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 108

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO TOREIGN DISSEM

EnClOBUrE A

18 November

0857 - AlLeriev enterg Embassy alone (Depa

Ing not noted)

1558 - Sootlior enter stone

1529 - Lost lion departs alone

1356

Tostizoy enters alone

1711

tostion departs alone

1759 - Koatiko enters alone

19 Ploveber

1210 - Alforier enters Babagsy alone

1312 - Alferiev departs with Garmascher

1352 - Allerion and Carnascher retura

1415 - hostilor departs alone.

1333 - Alferter entera alone

(tos departure not noted,

1653 - Lostizon esters alone

20 November

No coverage

21 November

0853 - Alleriov enters ansita vito

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

60021 23

PAGE

150

COPY NO.

0212

---

## Page 109

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FOREION DISSEN

0918 - Kostitov enters alone

0317 - Alferley departs alone

0949 - Alterley enters alone

1133 - Rostikoy departs with Stubin

1206 - A1fer1ey departs 11028

1240 - Hostizon enters with Shubin

1310

Rostikoy departs

ear driven by KGB chauffeur Malinia

1341 - Rostizon enters with Kalinin

2353 - 422erter es

entera alone

1427 - Kostikov departs alone

1630 - Rostikov enters alone

22 slovembes

0353 - Alferler enters Labrasy alone

0904 Kostikov enters alone

1005 - Kostikov has discussion with Shubin

1016 - Kostikor departs with Shubia

1028 - Kostikov enters with Shubin

1030 - Rostitor departs With Wife and Shubta

1250 - Bostion, wile and Shabin return

1302-1312 - Kostion speaks in garden with Kazantsey

1336 - Bostikoy departs with Shubin, Shpakevich, TuryglI,

driven by Kalinin

1402 - All above return

STRICT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C2/ 24

PAGE

151

COPY NO.

0212

---

## Page 110

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FORCION MISCE

1102 - Hostikow talking to garden with Alleriev, ¿sureyev,

1402 - instilion departs to car with laatly

2452 - Alserley departa alone

1435 - Alferfer enters alone

1503 Alterie dopart arone

1517 - Alferten enters alone

1539 - jostlisor enters alone

23 November

1130 - Lostlkov speaks with Kazantsey and Shublo

1133 - Tostikay departs uith Kazastsey and Subin

1200 - Alterley enters zlone

1240 - Justison, Kazantsey and Snubig enter

1410 - Rostllow plays volleybalI with Yatssov, Sbubls,

Kazantser, Porkhinor, and Streganor

1425 - Hostitor specialist and 51a7n08

1130 - Xostlkov departs with Simoin and Bonzechenko

1440 - Alferiev depasta alone

31 Moveniser

1100 - Allerlev enters Embassy alone

1307 - Hostizov enters wiShiT and Shubla

- NO FOREIGN DISSEM

6002/25

PAGE

152 212

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 111

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1326 - Alferiev departs with-Stengalev

1110 - allertey entery with Shensalev

1910- alterton Cortisor, Kazaney and 3 undentitlad

sortet realtors depart (a'a car)

NO FOREION DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/26

PAGE 153 0 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 112

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEURST

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Enclosure 3

Ly 22 Moveaber coverage of Soviet inbassy so zal.

i11 22 November coverage follows:

1250 • Ciban Consul Alfredo Mirabul Diaz asks to speak

vits Tatskor.. latter apparently unavallable and

Kostikow comes on line with following conversation

ensuing fallar Popu

soS: Forgive ap for arriving lata.

Man:

Did you recover the suitenge?

• KOS:

Jes

HIB:

Then it was artiving on the other trip.

KOS: Yes

MIR:

I called to tell you the tollowing, that regarding

to see 11

we would spend Sunday in Chapultepee

that matter tist we had talked about part because

my flie is preparing sone food to eat there.

KOS:

I'm sorry but lge just made plans for another

trip and In leaving this very dry.

So please

forgive me for not being able to so mith you.

3IR;

j'd like to taly to favel Tatalov.

30S:

wait a ninute,

he Il cone soga

all:

It ha"s busy 1'15 caljis later;

but I'11 be

avallable for the nest half hour et telephone

1o. 122847.

ROS: 0. 1.

1334 - Reporter requests statenezt Unidentified Soviet

nale refuses.

1323 - Fenale Implies to Bukharenio that the Soviet Asbassador

has said to nate no statement.

1145 - Yugoslay Antassador. Tanov calls and speaks with Soviet

Talk briofly about

Ambassador Dately da each other that they kaow, which

assasataation tellfga

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G002/27

PAGE

154 01

COPY NO.

212

---

## Page 113

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGRET

NO FOREION DISSEM

appeses to bo only shat tjay dot iron the radio.

1550 - ünidentiiied annan advisea Estiets oI assassization.

104 - raidentifled resorter asts lur Yazaster, advisad

tbat inmaatsey nafj1n, will ba bacà doring, 09391:00.

16s2 - Unidentified faale reporter fold Soviet Inbassy 10t

vorisday today, Saturiay or sunday.

1715 - Laporter calla fos statenat. jona given.

- Kazantsey calls sis residence, peraonal call.

1741 - Reporter told to call baes bonday.

1750 - lidantizieu sale asis for lednor.

Mot 18e

1735 • Lbove calls agata

- Beportar told call baci tonday.

NO FORTION DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/28

PAGE

COPY

NO.

155 0212

---

## Page 114

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATTACIAEIT C TO CSCI-3/773,381

1. Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERIV

- iravia Corespondent

2. Jalerty Madiairovich ROSTIKCY - Attacho Consular Offica

3. Aleksay Ivanovich CAlASCHy - Consul

1. VItali7 Barisovich SHUSIN

- Attache

- Chauffeu.

7. Vladiatr

8. Vladimir Ivanovich A#DRiYaY - I'lrst Secrotary

9. Madiair Vastlyovich TURYGIN - Third Secretary

10. Pavel Antonovich TATSKOY

- Attache

11. Vladiate PORRHINOY

12. Cennadiy STROGANOY

- code clerk

• Radio Operator

13. N1k0lay Fetrovich SLAVNOY

-: Code Clerk

14. Madimir SOHANCHENRO.-

- Second Secretazy

15. LeV FEdOIOTICh SHENGALIY

Employee, Comerctal

011c3

16. Oleg BasinovIch NECILPORENO TICe Consul

17. Sergey Semyonorich LUXARSNO - Second Secretary; So

get Infossation

1UL1020

18. Nikolay Sergeyevich ITOYOY - Third secretary

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G0t2/25

PAGE

156 • 212

COPY NO

---

## Page 115

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SENTST

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I2C1333E 3

32 lorenior coverage ol Soviat inbussy noraal.

22 Movescer coverage tolloman

2250 - Cuban Consuf Alfredo itratal Diaz aaks to speais

with Tatator.

Lotter sparently unvallible and

date anna on at 20110810g cosversation

803:

For ta no lor arriving lato.

NI3: Did you recover the suitcase?

KOS: Yes

WI7: Then 1t ms arriving on the other talf.

SOS: I03

113: I called to tell you too lolloing, that rogarding

that miter that ve had talked about,

we would spend sunday la Chapultepee

Part because

Iy we 1s zeparing some jodd to eat thera.

ECi:

I's sorry but l've just sade plans: jor anothes

tJiy and I'a Janving this very day.

So please

j'orgite se for not beloz able to go with j0u.

MIB; I'd like to tall to Pavel Yatason.

3CS: Wait a sinute, be'll core son.

HIR®

Is he's busy I'll call bin later, but 1'1l ke

aTa1lnole Ior the nort hall bour

at telephone

20. 11-28-47.

1354 - Puporter roquests statementou baldentilled soviet

male reines.

1338 - Penale Iapliea-20 Bilbureairo Chat the Seriet Anjaseados

Is sald to make so statement.

1445 - IngoBlay A

masados Manor calls and sporis vith soviet

Antagaador

FaST 1a12sa1a2.

Tals brierly about

assainatlan talling each other what they ison, saich

$E0257

NO FORCION DISSEN

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G002r30

PAGE

COPY

157 • 212

NO.

---

## Page 116

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SLURET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

appears to be only what they got from the radio.

1550 - Unidentified woman advises Soviets of assassination.

1544 - Unidentifled reporter asks for Kazantsev, advised

that Kazantsey not in, will be back Monday, 0930-1400.

1615 = Unidentified nale aslesh for Kusharenso, told he 1sn't

1652 - Unidentified lenale reporter told Soviet Eabassy not

working-today, Saturday or Sunday.

1716 - Reporter calls for statement. Mone given.

• Kazantsey calla his residence, personal call.

1744 - Reporter. told to call back bonday.

1750 - Unidentified male asks lor leonor. Not {s.

1735 • above calls again

- Reporter told call bacis Honday.

SOMET

NO FOREIGN DISSEA

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/31

PAGE

158 •₽ 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 117

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SITICIETI C TO CSCI-3/773, 381

I. Ivas Gavrilovich ASZIS?

- Frayda Correspondent

2. Falerly Vladialrovich KOSTIKOY - Attacho Cozsular Office

3. Alesser Ivasorich GalláScasy

- Consul

1a Vitaléy Bosisonich St318

- Attacbe

• Chat. four

G. Baria Alaisandorich SAZANTSãY - COUrsalOs

7. Madiat IFIZOViCh SEPASTICH - TalId Sucretary

8. MadialI ITADOViCh ANDRETIY - P1ISI SaCrOtaSy

D. Nadial Vasilyouich IUYGIN - Third Sacrotary

10. Pavel satonovich TATSk0y

• Attache

13. Madiais FOREHUNOY

• Code Clerk

13. Genuadly STROGAZOY

• Radio operatos

r.A

13. H1K013Y POLIOTICS SISTaOY

- code cleri

14. MadIaLT SCHANCIAISO

- second secratasy

15. Lor Fedorovich St

_Inployes, Commercial

0tfico

16. Oleg Histovich NACITEOFErA

=:11C0 60138)

- second secretary; So

2040110

13. Mikolay Sorguyenich IRONOV

= Third Secretary

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/ 32

PAGE

159 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 118

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

wAn

SE:

23 JU:..

MEMORANDUM FORI MI. J. iDE Barii

General Counsel

President's Commission os tha

Assassination of Presidan: Kennedy.

SUBJECT:

Lantarrey Oswald

1o Mi. James: 1. Ilobelar of your stuff phonca me last

Erlasy and requested that CIA furaloh tie Comminsion with an

allaavic compacting tho orlanend circunstancos o, a photozraph

of an uninown Individuat wilich was furnished by this Agency to

the Fedosal Bureau a lavestigation on Novosaber 22, 1963.

2.

I ara forwarding an affidavit wita talo memorancus

which I trust wull salaly your necds. Decause of to extera

jonnitivity of the source lavolved, I have reirainad from acoing

lurthor detalls.

3. Che Central intelligonce Agoncy rocommenas tit

thla photograph not be reproducod in tho Commission's report,

because it would jeopardiso a moat confidential and productive

operation. In addition, li could he embarrancing to tao ladi

vidual Involved who as far as thla Agoncy is awarc, haú no

connection with ied Harvey Onwald or the manassination of

President Kennedy.

4. in vlow of the above, a sensitivity inalcator has boo

afficed to this communication.

Richard Helras

Deputy Diractos for Plana

Ate

• 2/

SECRET

WAR:::

13 NOTiCE

Nir:

AND

H3.170

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/33

PAGE

160

of 212

COPY

NO.

D 2570

---

## Page 119

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SERNET

Distrlbution:

Orig & l • Addressce

2 - DDP

1 - CT/R&A/Oswald 201

1 - CI/R&A/ Dooley,

1 = WH/Waltton

CT/R&A/Dooley pra

SELALT

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CUt 21 34

PAGE 161 0212

СОРУ

NO.

---

## Page 120

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHOBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLY

20 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CA/REA

SUBJECT:

Documents Available in OSWALD's 201 File •

I. A machinguisting of documents officially recorded as being

in OSWALD's 201 file was requested and is attached. The actual

machine work of this type yas begun in 1963, but a few items of previous

dates were also recorded.

2.

A comparison of the documents physically available in the

201 file and those recorded as being in the 201 file has shown that 37

documents which should be in the 201 file are not available in it. This

total is made up of:

2 dispatches

7 memoranda from the FBI

1 CSCI

2 State Department documents

25 cables.

3. Machine inquiries for the location uf these documents have

not been made.

keep

Mility

Daurient Number

563-810

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

PXs

Lone

the

vole

wal

/ 201

SECRET

• EYES ONLY

C002r 35

PAGE

COPY

162

NO.

212

of

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

D 2571

---

## Page 121

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

85. So Lee Ranidn

Would you please be good enough to tale

phone me 0n Menday, I Kirch, b which tame I

(Signci) Make is reload

Richard Helms

111:00

12/3/64

Rankie's 86-

6 March 1954

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(002036

PAGE

COPY

163 09 212

NO.

D2572

---

## Page 122

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

!.

..no.

4-1224

XA4Z-22595

a Man 6.4

MEMORANDUM FOR: ME. J. Lee Rankis

SUBJECI:

° Infatuation in CIAlS POSSESiOn

was to do parve, 2573 c

tAvarren Cimmission

This refera to your letter of February 12, 1961

addressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which cas

been passed to me lor reply.

2 Paragrapis three of your letter requested the Agency

to supply the Commission with a report on imormation in the

Agencyis possession regarding iee Harvey OSWALD prior to

¡overoes 22, 1963, The request was predicated upon the

footste on page two of CIA is report to the Commission dated

31 January 196%, entitled: "Iformation Developed by CIs on

the Activity of lice Harvey OSiVAID in Mexico City, 28 Sez-

tezaber = 3 October 19638:

= There is attached as esart reproduction of the

Agency's chicial dossier on Lee Harvey OSWALD beginnin

with the ogening Baeet dated 9 December 1960. The entice

dossier carries the security classification of Secret ar

consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order.

On the basis of clearances from the Federal Bureau of

Investigation, the Department of State, the Department

Mavy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service?

were queried by us after the receift of your letter, we are

able to malce available exact copies of all materials in the

file up to early Cetober 1963, These inclute:

Document Number

590-25₴0

for EOlA Review on

JUN 1976™

Transmitteed

ATT.

201-259245

6 Mailt

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002637

PAGE

164 0212

COPY

NO.

D 2572

---

## Page 123

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Bureau of Investigatin

a, Seven documents received from tice Fedaral

bo Ten documents received from the Department

of state®

at Narra

Imo documents received izom the Depastsent

One document (a name chech request) fors the

Immigration and Naturalization Service.

e. Iour newspaper clippings.

fo Five internal CIA notes.

CoA report dated 3Y fataly 1961 eate Sanitaion

which covers all suntantive developmenta allacting CIA

in tbe matter at lee Harvey OSWALD froIa 9 October to

22 Noveriner 1963. The report indicated the disseminations

of information developed by CIA that vere sade to other

Federal agencies during that period. This itera, as was

priated out at the ting; is particularly senaitive and bears

appropriate senditivity indicators.

You will note that almost all of the docuseuta carry

markings reguired for ClAig internal records processing. A

few of the papers contained the rasses di our employees or

identifications el specific organizational components. We have

taken the liberty of blocking out these iters as they do not bear

on the substance ol the Commission's request.

Richard Helms

Deputy Director Ict Flang

Attachmert

Original & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP Subject

1= C/CI/R&

1 - DDP Chrones COPY

• 1 - C/WH/3

1 - C/CI

1 + 201289248

CI:RGRocca:de /7468/4 March 1964 (Inventory of documents contained

in file attached for all but addressee)

201-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

165 or 21.2

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 124

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHOBITED

Inventory of Documents Contained in OSWALD Dossier Forwarded

to the Commission

• /.1.. State Telegram No: 1301, Detober 31, 1959 (Confidential)

• /2. Newspaper Article from the Washington Post, November 1, 1959

* /V3. CI/ LON Internal Note dated 2 November 1959 (oral FBI name

ock request) and iR reply dated 1 November 1959 (Coaldential)

ForeigaS

evice Despatch 234, November 2, 1959 (Confidential) V

• ~ J5, State Telegram 1358, November 9, 1959 (Confidential)

",r6. Stato Telegram 1148, November 9, 1959 (Confidential)

•r 1. Newspaper Clipping from Washington Post, November 16, 1959

" 13. Newspaper Clipping from Evening Star, November 26, 1959

+ 19. DBT 49478, 25 May 1960 (Confidential)

" 2i0. Internal CIA Biographic Profile dated circa May 1960 (Confidential)

* 111, Letter from the Department of State (Gumming) to DDP (Bissell)

dated October 25,

1960 (DD/P 0-5679 - Secret)

Eududed interin

12, DDP Response to Stard, dated 21 November 1960 DD/S 0-6003 -

Secret)

'Vi3. Internal CIA Request for Opening of 201 file, 9 December 1960

(Secret)

i /14. State Memorandum of Conversation dated January 26, 1961 (QUO)

" 15. State Instruction A-273, April 13, 1961 (OUO)

~16.

Foreign Service Deapatch 806, May 26, 1962 (QUO)

• 1Ÿ. Foreign Service Despatch 29, July 11, 1961 (OUO) ~

÷18. DFB 82181, July 13, 1961 (Confidential) -

ATT. 1. I:: XAAZ-22595

CS COPY

201-299248

LN2I33

PAGE

166

СОРУ NО.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0: 212

---

## Page 125

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

X442-22575

E Mar 64

11% Intersal CIA Memo for the Record, 28 September 1961 (Secret)

r 120. Fareign Service Despatch 317, October 12, 1961 (OUO)

-Jes Nama Gaeck Request, December 5, 1968

J22. Navy Massage 20197/RB/3, 3 March 1962 (Confideatial)

¿ 123. DNA 1624, 26 April 1962

~124, Newspaper Clipplag froza Washington Poat, June 9, 1962.

s: -25. DBA 20883, September 7, 1962 (Coafideutial)

*26. DBA 51407, 10 September 1963

* 227. DBA 52355, 24 Septeraber 1963 tale ain in

al Member 196g* done inder.

,28. DBA 55715 (ausole clear) November 7, 1963*

• J29. DBA 55777, November: 8, 1963

× 130. CIA Summary Report on Activities af OSWALD In Mexico City,

dated 31 January 1964

C3 COPY

-2=

201-259248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002040

PAGE

167 •s212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 126

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CRIG:

REPRODUCTION

PROMUBITED

ROUTING

LATE :

Erica W. Isenstead:br

C/ZE/G

D INDEX

7858

E NO INDEX

2132 1904

D FILE IN CS FILE NO.

RYBAT SECRET

2

3

6

TO

G. JaH 64

19 452

BERLIN

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

C/sH 4

FRANKFURT

iNFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI., C/CI/SI, VR

DEFERRE CENT

R ROUTINE

TO

BRLN

INFO

FRAN

CITE DIR

92725

FIDAT GPFLOOR

RE: BRLN 5267 (IN 90848)

IN VIEW REGGAB CONNECTION MARINA OSWALD HEADQUARTERS

DOES NOT DESIRE LONG-RANGE OPS INVOLVEMENT SUGGESTED PARAGRAPH

3 REE.

END OF MESSAGE

G/S COMMENT: *Reggab has number complex financial, documents and

persoral problems which leading him consider return to Moscow for further

study in cinematographic institute. Believe he would definitely return if

encouraged by us and that he susceptible to recruitment as KUBARK agent

duting Moscow sojourn and possibly as long range asset in Morgeco

RECORDS OFFICER STAUP

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

456-771

me Mollowing actio:

CONDUCTED ON.

25 MAY 197

CS COPyauthorised:

Jocument Number

DE SENSITIE

IMPDET CL BY. 0122,0%

les FOlA Reylew on

MAY 1976

D-200-5-41

Signed:

R.0.#1 #1 -ünst ClREA

Note:

961-289248

If destructior, cite

reasons and cordinate

DC/CI

i popratee

Tarame.

ADDP

RELEASING OFFICER

ATING OFFICERS

CROUP I

Excluded frem autamatic

doungrading and

declassification

RYBAT SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/41

PAGE

168 0212

COPY

NO.

2573

---

## Page 127

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22661

MENORANDUM FOR: MI. J. Lee Ranicin

SUSJECT:

Reports on Activitles aná Travei

Marisa Misalavza CSMALD as Transitte

barren Cimmissica

lo. Reference la rugide to the second paragrapa of your

memoranium dated 12 February 1964, and the second gara

grapa al your memorasdur a 16 March 1964, relative io

dissemisatigas st laforration roade by SlA to the Secret

Servica.

2.

Immediately aiter the assassination of Presideat

Kennedy Cid undertook to assembie tbrough its stations is

Europe all available data, including information in the illes

of other goveruments and irtelligence services, on tbe

caveis and activities ai Lee Harvey JrALD and Marina

Nikolera OSTALD. This inforzation, as it mas collected,

was made available to the Whito House, the Departent. of

State and the federal Jureau of Investigation, Copies of

these messages were also sent to the Secret Seivice.

3. Attached to this ineinorandun are exact copies of

to telatyped messages relative to the travels and activities

al tha OSWALD: (Attachmeuts A and B).

Paragrapas g asd h

o Attachment O are paraphrased.

In Attachmens C, OUT

Taletype No. 85715, are foud references to two other tele.

typed messages (OUT No. 85182 and OUT No. 35665) which

describe one Richard Thomas GBSON, a negro jour malist

for FOIA Roviow on

JUN 1976

Dooument Number

627-82

IS GET RESTRICTED TO CI/RIA

B 201743808

= ATTS. MIL

31-MAR 19GY

201-251248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0902/42

PAGE

169

COPY

NO

0212

D 2574

---

## Page 128

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

now residing in Switzerlaod who has been active in the Fair

slay for Cuba Committee, Paraphrases of No. 35132 azd

No. 85665 are included aa Michants D and I. access ta

origital tests of paraphrased ians will be provided whas

members of your stall' visit Langley. The information on

which paragraphs g and 1 a Attachest C aze based was

received at CLA Headguarter's on/27 November and dissersi-

sated on 28 Noverabes.

This menorandum asd the attachments contala

very sensitive infortiation which has a dizect bearing on

sources and sethods. An appropriate sensitivity indicator

has thorefore been affixed.

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plaza

Attachroertg

as stated

Distribution:

Original & 2 - Addressee w/atts

1 - DDP Chrono w/atts.

- DDP subjecf w/atts

1 - C/CI/SiG w/atts:

1 - C/WH/3 w/atts

1 - 201-

GI/R&A/TRHall/ 6664/26 March 1964

CS 6577

-2=

201-291245

6002/43

170 • 212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 129

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment A

Ieletype message, OUI No. 36702, dated 4 Dacezzber 1'953,

filed at 1411 hours, to the White Fiouse, the Depariment of

State and the federal Bureau of lavestigation, with copy to the

Secret Service.

ATT: i te.

SUBJECT: Lee HaJveY OSWALD

Recorda of the foreigners recorda cífice of the Gerras

Federal Reprolic la Cologne, Germany, show that Marina

Nisolayerna Pusakova CSWALD crossed West Germasy Som

East Germany to Holland on 3 Juna 1962. She traveled by fallo

crueing into West Germany at Fielmstedt on 3 June abd enter -

ing Hollaai by rail at the Bertheir crossing point. She had

Viest German visa 694/62 issued at the liest Germasy Embassy

in Moscow, She listed her fizal destination as U.S.A. Caramert

Ihis confirms information from the J.S. Embassy la Moscow

to the efiect that the OSWAlD family traveled from Iloacow to

Rotterdam by fall around 3 June 1962. Felmstedt and 3eutzelra

are on the main rall route frora Russia to Rotterdazo, While

Le OSWALD hiraself asd their infart daughter are not recorded i

in German records this is probably because little attertion is.

pail to J.S, citizaas and to icarts in keeping travel records.

11964

63 0071

XAAZ-2240

291-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002054

PAGE

COPY

NO.

171 • 212

---

## Page 130

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachman 3

Icletype massage, OUT No. 87520, dated ó Deceraser 1783,

Fileel at 1529 hours, to the lihite House, the Departrent oi

staio and the federal Bureau d Isvestigation, with copy to the

Secret Service.

SUBJECT: 200 FARE OSWALD

- Reference la madeto our OUT telegraza iva, 36732 od

4 December 1963 Which gave isorsation on tha travel af

Marica OMALD fand presumably also Leo liarvey OSHALD

and choir daugiter) across W9s: Gerrsary on their retura

Froz the Soviet Unior, Information z0w available E 0z Irtob

authorities seems to confirin this. Ja 3 Juna 1952 one

M. OSVAID, listed as a sale Russian citizes, exered Ihe

Netherlands by train at the Cidenzaal border poist.

Comment:. It is believed that the listing of this person

as a male instead of ferale was just an ersor of the border

Dilcials. Note that Olderusal is ppposite Sentsoir, the

German border paist where liarima CS" AID it Germany..

08 GORY

31-16175-1964

201-289245

ATT. 24 XAAZ-22601)

60t2/45

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

172 0 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 131

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

5P

Teletype message No. 85715, dated 29 Noverber 1963, filed

at 1330 houza, to the White House, the Department of State a-

the Foderal Bureau of Investigation, wit's copy to tze Secret

Service.

SUBJECT: Travel as Las jarvey OSWALD

Io Tha following information has beez gatbered from

feliabla soureas regarding the travel a Lee Harvey OSWALD

and big wita:

2. 2 October 1959: According ta ofticia

British travel recorda CSMAID arrived is

tsat he bad no fixed addresa but planned to rexair

in the United Kingdom one week for vacation before

going on to "some school" in Switzerland. (Head-

quarters comment: Probably referring to the

Albert Schweitzer College in Switzerland with which

he is knows to bave been in correspondence.)

Do 10 October 1959: According to the sarao

official British travel records CSWALD leit London

this date by air for Helsin

63 GSPY

ATT. 3 te. XAAZ. 22661

201-257248

31-1AR=1964

GOL2146

REPRODUCTION

PROHOBITED

173 9 212

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 132

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Co Cctobes 1757: Stockaale newspaper, Dagers

Nizeter, of 25 Movember 1753 states Lee CaVAL)

passed through sweden during Cetober 175% Articlo

visa to tao usa la elsinki which resulted in his

returzing to Stockholm. Iwo days after be arrived in!

Stockholm OSWALD traveled directly to lioacow.

Conciuding sertence of articlo states "This apdicates

that the Rassian Imbassy (Stockhoink gave lam a viea,"

According to a reliablo source thard

no recgrd

that there was asy request for a USS3. visa processed

tbrough norsal charnels for CSTALD at any line

dariag 1959, aod source indicated it was difficult to

explais bow OSWALD migot kare received his visa in

two days without going through normal camels. The.

only conclusion which can be drawa is that CSWALD

must have received his visa directly from the Soviet

Embassy in Stockhal which occasionally is done in

special caes

but the source had no evidence to corfiry

this assumption

CCU2 47

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

174 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 133

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

VA=

¿. 10 to 15 October 1959: According to a very :

reliable but extremely sensitive sourCe CS:ALA stayed

at the Iorni Hotel in Solginki from 10 to 1l October and

bon moved to the laus surti Hotel where be stayed

unt 15-Oetoees, apparently waiting for a visa to be

issued him by the Soviot Consulato in Fieleine. Fio

traveled to the USSR by traiz, crossing at Vainldla as

15 October.

c. 13 May 1962: According to a Dutch official

source, the Detch Charge la iloscow issued a tranalt

VISA tO OSWALD'S MiLO DA 13 May, 2962. Inois petsado

reveal his wife was burn on 17 Juy 1%l

testead of

19 July 1941 and in Severoivina's instead of blinsie.

There is no record of ber having actually transited

The Netherlands,

1o 1962: Official British records do not reflect

that CSWALD returned to the United Stakes frozn the

Ussa through the linied Kingdom. iowever, If he

were merely tranniting, it would not tave been

necessary for hirs to fill out a landing card, and

therefore there would be no record of hia travel in

the official traffic inder.

- 3=

6002/48

PACE

COPY

NO e

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

175 • 212

---

## Page 134

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

go 1963: According to an extremely sensitive asc

reliable source, on 23 November liaria SNETHLAGE,

head of the I'Werkgroup lufor atio Guba" (Worleg up

Information Cuba), toll an employes al to Cubaa

Erasey la Tha lages thai she vas aure she had met

deseried air as a man de violence aad entirely full ai

hate and indicated that it was possible that this an had

been misused by a group. She said she cad written to

'GISSON" about the bad impression sha bad bad oi =bia

LEI, (Headguarters comment:. Please refer to our

telstype Nos. 85132 add 35665 for aciditional information

on GISON, ) Later, SNETRLAGI told Castro Cubans

in The Hague that "Mr, LoF of the Fair Play for Cuba

Committee: had been slardered and that it was anothar

person named LSe CSWALD Who had done it. SNETHLAGE

acemed to be glad to have heard this ¡correct" versice.

(Headquarters comment: sir, Its may be idantical with

Vincert Theodese LEt who replaced Richard GIDSON as

Head of the Fair Play fax Cuba Committee,)

6002/49

PAGE

176

0: 212

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 135

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

La Accordias to reliable retro

ztion, SNETHIAGE

was in Guba in Jamary 1263, and according to an official

Dutch source, sur agaia traveled ty Cuba for the lay Day

colobzationa do 1963.

63 BON/

-5-

261-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/50

PAGE 177 08212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 136

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment D

Telera 180. 35182, dated 22 Movember 1963, led at 1932 horses

to the White House, the Defartment of State and the Federal

Barean of Investigation, with copy to the Sacret Sarvice. (pazaporasa)

SUBJECTO LeO Harvey OSTIALE

15== 1213

1o In conversation with a close friena la Bart,

Switzerlaad, on 23 November 1963, Richard Thomas CISSON.

remaried that OSWALD iS lOne DE US, CSHALD and GIESC

had corresponded two years previously, and OSWALD lad

jolsed the Committee, (Comment: Reference is presumably

to the Fair Play for Cuba Casanistoo.! GIBSON added tiat ho

bad destroyed all his letters from SWALD. OSWALD is

not is New Xant

He felt sorry for "II" in New York and

2. The information given above was supplied by an

-tremely sensitiva source who is urually reliable.

3. According to other information that was availzole,

Richard Thorsas GIBSON, bors 13 May 1931 in Los Anyales,

Califorzia, is a negro jourralist who has beenactive is the

&3 t

31-p11tA-1564

ATT. 4 To. XAAZ- 224C!

26:-259248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CCC2/51

PAGE

178 08 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 137

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Fair Play los Gusa Cornited Singe 1960.

Fe has resided

since April 1263 at Lausando, irerlado la tais lates

Revolution Africaine

piau

201-259275

-2=

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/52

PAGE

179

os 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 138

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

cent F

Teletype message, CUT No. 35665, 29 November 1763, filed

at 1826 hours, to the White House, the Department of Stata axi

the Federal Sureau of Inestigation, with copy to tise Secret

Service, (paraphrased)

1o Our station lo The Fiague has reposted tat as

23 November 1963, a local Castroite named Maria SNETHLAGE

told Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS oi the Cubar Embassy in

The Fague that sha Inew the "M. IDZ" (sie) uno murdered

Presidest Kennedy. Sha described "LIS" as a 11az full of bata

and violence, and speculated that he lad bees "misused by a

soup' She said so bad valeton to CISSON (undocatedly

Sichard GIBSON,

MS citizen aí Lausanne, Siritzerland, bara

13 Nay 1935, a Casto order, who had visitsd Ite

Netherlands recently and had been in contact buth with the

Soviet Ambassador and the Cuban Imbassy)

2o Latar tsat sace day Maria INSTHLAGE told Secretary

JANTOS that 1315. LEE of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee!'

lad been slandered. The assassin had been another person,

LeO OSWALD. SNETFLAGE is reported to have been in Cuba

in Jamary and again in biay 1963.

03 607V

31-17aR- 1961

201-2592.45

ATT. 5 te: XHAZ -22601

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0C62/53

PAGE

180

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 139

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3. According to Dutch authorities on 7 Noverzoe= 1963,

in talking about attacks by Cuban Iriugees against the Jubas

maiziand, SANTOS lad replied 'just wait and you will see what

we can do. I will happen sooz Asied to be more preciss,

*. & very sensitive source reports that ater his conver-

sations with SNETHLAGS, SANTOS was very angry because she

had costacted him.

-23 COPY

201-251248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002/54

PIGS 181

of.

212

CoPy NO.

---

## Page 140

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECIET

WARNING NOTICF

SENS

SOURCES A

METHODS INVOLVEL

cap 4-2544

XAAZ- 17620

MEMORINCUA FOR: Me:. 20a Roskin

Gearral Connel

Prestons cooralamion fa the

Ansssinition of Frenidam Kamnady

¿Lagallona Asgerding Iatalligenca E srizir

School 1s Minsk, U5211

as Transmitteel

Warren

Commission

/Magazions ai the cristence of a Soviet lisligaca cad/or

sabciga training sebook in Milask, U0S2, have como do %ba

etanien of sau agoacy from praas serient. Alcor thera has

ilI. Dellos, very recally on this duzil. lento dela eppertanity

to lamisa to lão Cosmiasion tre iniormation dica the Agaray

bas on sis sopie.

¡ careit reviam of Gui Alles ias prosecad no hara

Information regarding Soviat intoligama os sabotage training in

Minas sinca 1947. Cho von si isoration soplias by = Joviai

Jafector in 1M19 reporied tha sistence, as ol 1947, of an intelligenc*

tratzing school la Minas. No adelitonal detaila, acrepar, were

a7alabls rogaring its curriculam or location in Minsk, Iaferostion

develOpo iTom our nonrces tine: 1949 has 10l esmorad, confirmed.

or corroboritad tas continuel -ristenes oi the instalatios.

"pelho, calorence in CI: Eles to trataine la Milask Iolares

to ca- existenca of a sabotago achad rhica lunctioned la Minas niil

the Darmas sitacs da the Soviet Union In 1011, afor waich the school

nas noris to Lentegrad.

8a: FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

200:5

5 Jn 64

SEGNET

-201-289748

200

41

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SCURCES AND

Excidad 121 E.

didata: :

METHODS INVOR ED

Document Number

226-314

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/55

212

PAGE

182 of

COPY NO.

D. 2575.

---

## Page 141

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEBAST

training In Miamo Tary aro dariebou to tho Coramaiaica in

41+10 20101IEROTS. LOUSE 012109108141 90173

lavoland, li bos bersancussaro to alla a sonsitivity ludicaton

ad 79: 71

Richare Reima

Degety Discesos (02 Flaza

Distribution:

2 - DDP

1 - 36/01/2

1- 9/0150

- Cl/Râs/121a1

1- 51/Rb÷/201

Originatad 37s CI/RSA/ERRail:as|5604, 4 Juna 1964)

SEGNAT

201-279246

206-5.41

WARNING MOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCE: AND

MET:036 :

; -30

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CC62456

183 •212

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 142

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

16 December 1963

ÄXE

jeinhà Dartin Ni J

+ 202070-1234

3, d.x.

beky 207000 (Elami

bres tae

7'5 D

Doiaian ia Essreity s00si ica

YENS

c/12/3/5.21 ühdttenseg

pestrdation:

- Fr

22 Decmiter 1503

ASIC

zowr

50 FECICS

o++9-010109

C/2/3

•75/06

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002657

PAGE

184 •g 212

COPY

NO.

D2576

---

## Page 143

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CSC7-3/779,135

TO

Director

Federal Burem of Investigation

Attention: HI. B. i. rapici

FICH

Deputy Direstor (Ploas)

SUBJECH : POLES DISABI's Comesta:on the lenedy Assasatnation

Attached for yor periml are the tritten comenta or KG3

devalorments to the bast oi his ability. Ma comests on hoi

Lee OSWALD and his wife sust have been handled by Soriet latall-

Igonco authoritles shile they vere inside the Soviet Union are

particularly interesting and his suggestions for ths- queutsoning

a lies- Marina OMNi ere equally provocative.

2.

He have decided to pasa. on his views vithout editing.

nil this Agenoy does not speeifically endorse his conclusion

r. recommendations.

ESCI-3/719,235

Enclosures: Per paragraah 1

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 85 MAY 1976

- IMPOET CL BY 0/2.202

c/w#/3/J.M-Haitten: cmy

Distribution:

Or1g. & 1 - Addressee

1 • RI

CI/ITA

CI/R&A

CI/SIG

C/WH/3

WH/R

12 December 1963

BASIC:

Elane

NO PROJECT

Document Number

413-76A

MAY 1976

for FOlA Review on -

16 DEC 63

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/58

PAGE

COPY

NO.

185 • 212

D2576

---

## Page 144

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Peter DUTYABIl's Coments on Prenident Xemedy's

Assassinatio

2o Ve sbouli undertand that sy comeute thick fallow are

mat based salary ca the ibents that COVAiD uns mpeclelenly

dispatebed to mander c President, Aih9 pery 5223 posaibi11+

13 on itin

Prentdent:" Host did the USEl hare to gain by illing the

I believe ve can male a 800d case as to the precia

mins excrueling to the liST and boat spectfleelly necrueling to

¡ENUSUCEY. The asmassisatin of Fresident Tomatoula-

поса 13h 19510

restora para benind the londershiy of ties Ds.

ould antonatiently ease up. Fitness Paraldent Johnson's treatist

concilitary teleiran to linucas, alter the sander.

montico, that the lSA us too chiel proponent for sat extending

long rango eredits to the ls. Extendan of long ringa credita

Is vital to the usin at this Instane.

* Inds lends an into tbe nost presajay problem withta

tie USSR.

The test peristently undermbes the extent of the

of the Commist farty of the ussa.

effectively diverts the Soviets, ettention tras thess Isterna

In the Cuban altuntis ory USA er cuban expatilate

cottons stainet Can 711l not be tainted by the fact that thee

ers vergerul sets aginat Cun became of ClaID's "Fade play

for Cuba" essoclitione..

Coricanly the Soots property totempret

o altantion 19 thet Preeddart Jalisa T113 rest

105 8.100%

d. A more empable morica u11] strengtben KIRtalichty"s

hond in his mmaing battle ults the CarCas, Be will tia bave

enother reasco to say his fom di peacefal concatence 1s superior

to tast of the chico".

C30T3T

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002C59

PAGE

186 0: 212

COF:

NO.

---

## Page 145

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

e. Conceivably my oi President ISTy"s plached

ention to get eren un flas vita the fortets during tse pre-

actica your ana thus sabotaged by the president's surder.

1. To sovieta darioualy undenstocil that the death

c President Instay woula result 1n the enemyence of DeGAULIE

as a strong leuter. lender-

DefAuLts of course saya "thet's

good for france is not racestartly bed ior the lee. "

84 Te death of Prestant INDY MOVeS a pOpula

a jing point for or silen.

(exitably nada intatous copestas lotuben thotz des Intellochal

desert and the flouring of the arta user the koni. Mo

problen of the fatallertants in the 1x5yl ahoold not 19 arterzoted

26te begung whats, Leilactala have provided the leperta

for revolutton i1 the lost and tbey cryuiza cue of the shree

balZa RELECHEY saist constantly jigera u areacture,

the try as the hurtsy

Do It the IS has exy mbition ains in saipulating

U. E. Jubile onado thade minter « Fresident PRent vould serve

to esperbate the present differnces betren the relical lait

and fight in aries In luct the Usir propagada mcalae begma

to say the mander uns sormitted by tiza radical Ilgat as soca as

the deed was dane nod before eStAuD vas cagtured.

to missin's on citires, as the soviet Intelligene services

have suffered some tary roal reverass facently vith Paikoaki,

cortists detecttes, their lacinto expulalon for the Conso,

Ec.. I have loss predicted thet the loch rould tate sona drati.

action to lalt tse rupta escalan of theis security.

Can we briariy viar the OSWAID operation as a snuated

ration to 1113 tbe President? That toe the casertial

1n85

the K13 bad

the Basen Inquen till degr

to such on the spot assensuert.

base mit miran vand not be.

ocratics by the hes.

Rovever,

the kes

HeR TA TO PUSEBE CHATTIN

the value that tha kis ettacbas

à suct ai

r1y boors tbat

8200S7

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

1062650

PAGE

COPY

187 0 212

NO.

---

## Page 146

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

=3oa

In such on perhe ta had could not use a soriet

ta essestial - 15 vas a goal pum that ald secoel.

C. CENTATO dId eBUIN INDU the bord bullaing.

on After his errest, taich tos caly duo to h13 un-

formata encountar with Pollena TIRES, CSHALD did remadr

s1ntoj For 21ie the beberior of Cal. Azzuran his baberior 1,

to regard

• Ano me very res, pompiler that the k

stended to jigorata conta arter be ala the jo

41s Eseting

was son ten frene. In lley'a gort in the operaticn ue sa

Geognise tha posstatisty that fuey vau also a ka batcart son.

oring at the fars essentiaia of his part in the operatica i

Beo the follaing:

do JUST had accusa to the police stutton. Reparte

Egy be persocally sper nast policemen.

D. Le succeasially allenced CONAiD.

C. MBY renton sllent ard his cover 15 holding up.

d. Sa han a goal logest of temporary insanity.

0. Ea has a roasonable chance to escape the denta sentence.

le mooradaned aight be better qualitled to comment o

ta CaNAID arpects of this case it me iney the following abou

his astirittes zelor to his departura to the USSR: (2, DIE

and e, belor alter thre posslala nosvers to tra questions,

did he so to lensou?"

to Flast, COMlA vas a sallade larist or Cainmiss

abo decided to ear ca bts on; that 13, be mde thig declazon

by bissalf and pronyted by so obe.

He posadaly nas looking for

o botter lite witbout buartng that the Soriet Unlos really 13.

Second, unter OSMALD's Alecharge se sy "adealrabla

Iron the Marines, ba lamal biesell in e difficult and unloansat

situation: 1ò it portals that in this situation he las noticed

Dy a spotter directer for the Illegals or ec citer separ

mant ond vas considered an a jossible candidate for use o

incorrect

SEGRET

i Knowor

dischapill

etert

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/61

PAGE

188 01 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 147

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

The fal internation about darNI was sent to llaces,

«i sa Moscon's order en InnstigatIc di (SUILD ves nara 20d

¡ero tallerad a decision to "Invite bla to boseor, Valag the

struction for ste peration, eatintles, abe.

5.

Many for au ahut the Sorteta zorer aire a visa

vithout sating an isrartiatton ce the pemon raidor tua

Then did SHA) fIrst beata to encels Her wish

to so t0 the sortet Drêms

to To vom dil ba talk, soon did he contact at this

certy tise, uni bor won time elmael betrosa these sales aca

costacte mod his apileniton

0. Hon, then mi throud shan dia CorNo sot 21a

sartet vies?

à, How long ata 1t tais for bin 10 gat the visai

Has persially eve the viss to CanDY

?.Shen end bou did OsoN taral to tae tota fal

an through shich comtiles; in saich countries, 1i 37, a

he ma? stops; bon long sere sues stops)?

verare he loft to the Isa: perscally or by telephone, bi

mail?

Did no ever ast arone any mestlens on traveling to th

COURT

C002/ 62

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

189 $ 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 148

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

7.

In tali porziouli emo, under the Jecced Chiet Directorito (C]) •

Baing under the coctral a lon hus, at the san tier ba mis une

boary torestigation dizacted at annering the mentica o thy this

stigla tanton had con to tho tiR (it dorm't zia my aliterance

mtien man take tron CarA abort the vi, espectally about bla

service in ten lane torpe, cte. it tho sos tia, COMANO SE

nes contan Quention and atady cor posatala future usa 5

tho Soulet Istelligence sod CI servioes.

8. It mhould be noted bere that any fox

stay 250 la endet to the corset state Berliy as a pesatl

condidata for suture me (nectal trataing unt verattaent) vitata

te Ist ur othen contales (bui erelnut the lAi- deter a ecol

study ant investires iniel contine doout els martha In Moscow,

inder toral tiralal sepet sul adatan confert tre the 15,

the il3 sima lta coetica: that (Sina 15 clear und la wha

Soulst Intalligenes on Ci Survies..

aditional laguiry and inveniatim de ONALD val galng ca

dera ta sono a o a detto a torre a bot pest

Ante being a feu weak er marche in Henoor, CSIATD

crestad e vish te stay four la the Soviet Brios mi to ba

"Il you really

Therefore, schnher la this pertol, CALD met tauthe U. S

Inbzessy and renomcal his U, S. eitizenship. Alter this net

Steto Secmity asetaad to galTe OSiNa sonn lind ar jes ta vu

accorlance vita bts Innleig ad emiltiles, it te sine th

contiming to stay kin se a potantiai agent.

20.

berense.

ka bai noi get beer

13a09 sestier, to

bin:

In 3.2070) 05 lesa gen 1y.

11. Le OStI shored sone distatisfaction about the

Sovist aurel 11f9 (1t 1a zual fo Mariems) und by this time

OSHALa Lad already set 2i0 Ell filend (the KE Irsoadly belped

SEGNET

(0L2183

REPRODUCTION

PROIBITED

190

0212

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 149

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

his to tina barto she his happy sad to naza sure that ho woul.

not louve tha Soriet Tolca) the KGB et the sana tina coutimed

to trada hin, reacebly in the vay ci en ali issatoned lundat

cl2ing hin tart bo vould be a good fighter against Isperialleti

a better iran in the l. S. you have to fight very hazi to buz

capitalis; ag our flitta Sergeyeries soys; togetber ilti

espitails, Jon bave to bury all the stllionires, ineluling your

fast-beast and bloct tcher, Many for: this 1s 10k = zal1

"story; 1t 13 the way in which State Seeurity aperatas with the

stupta Marcista and with naive fallovera de the Cornmist Istre

rant). IlO aWn In withn the HB 13 ras docided, that

refit to a tn 19410 11 told to be a goot lighier agatast

coplastian and to secure Jo Soviet sittenalt, jonast show

then, te give you perdantos becanse ve baltere you an o strong i

Veet to retur to the lal and to do sonething for on ecaso

cause, such as to bala sy merlin pro-sovis agentsations o,

for Instance, Decca i benber of a face Dada famittee or in

case of crisly to do sometatay cutatenierg that 1111 be noticesble

ererberg that will prove that you an a real formist. Isen,

Aster inds tali, (SWALD stouted-bere is you preedont

Ey vite, se baya a chila, una I suala lika to go. I be dia

rate a big notar, they decided to lat hia ani her 2os

irendy was a trained agent, then without my cial of sodde or

hts port, but idtà acne difficulties, permisalon ma granted 300

hey to go with hi

pat cruis fuse

whether they use Condots co not.

13. Investigatios el (SHALD's vite shoula be undertason.

as soch as podiate,

with spe

Lar attention belts paid tine greation.

to 2012011

0002r64

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

191 • 212

NO.

---

## Page 150

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

=7=

Mast, uho 1s suer Eer Coseation, protesies, egs,

omy bacignand, Party aerillation (Lomonal serberably).

Il abe una 3 menber di the konamal, then tha konal cagalzatio

w1ll tare any steps porsidle salzat her trueling to toe U. S.

Also, she saint bo expellod fun tbe kenderal, and then sbe auto

action. The sane setion vould relate to try of bar relatives.

father, nother brothers... 1l they vere zebers of the CPSU

or Kamali

c. Who balped her and how mey ties to srite pepers

for the Soriet Halatry of Fordgs Afretry to say that ste

Ind zaated an Amerion attiren and vela 11%a to go vith hia to

the USA? IT it mas duno a fer times and alta greas dificulties,

then probahly it mos done miy with a little bely tron the rate, Il,

they siven a partuest, or a r00nt Ad 13 Tbat selabbarbood?

an share did her busband, DEAD, For sa shet factoryi

put wore his hans ci work? Hor long did he spend in loacer be

a vent to Mont? tho chore Atmelda he or did vasocon ale

Horkers?

5. How sany talney were she and her husband-sibile they

Ivod together trited to the pallo stutton on ury other Borde

overent afloos, together or seperately. (le: There 13 n

ciber aprice thr tha hOB which unld sna such an invitation. It

Inhas no difference If they were egents or aot.)

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6062665

PAGE

192 •s 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 151

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

in anita.

-5=

h. Hon mart (IntellIgant) is sie: Dott the Jeally

In her Eaglish better than she showa cy

better thn it thosli be aster balas ber only two jeers: &r

1. Vari does sha say about llie in the soriet inion:

¿ Did her basband have a gin vhile bo vas la tbe

Soviet Inion: - I so, bon does she lucy socut 13:

then did ho

get 15: Did ba bovo special persisaica to cary a sin: Did le

bring this un rita hin ucrosa the border! for your ticoreation,

nobaty caries. 4/gur In tou EsaR without tho kEs eventzally

levening of the.

Least of I11 an Agerlesa.

• to gwa Sinanalal bely to then betore they lor

he Sortet Unico?

30RE: Jor a regular murder in the soria

Lamelal annlatace at the harico Babeery upon his retum t

tine USA?

Eu las that first chila boma 11 Russia bastired In

the USER?

Il ao, in that chrch! Poore ider var 1: Did tier

begtise thalrasecond chila, born in the 1. S-"

3. II OUTD pover bad & perspent job bare la ta

Sà, then tho was golos to rinspen his next trip to the ussi

Ich nach did his wiia koo about his pim to return to the user

• Ma Cia:

14. The irrestigation at the vira scala be mada stes

con live vithin the Sortet Soica.

ayattable ineo oz CINAlD's story in the taz ma tbe sacre

of hia; visit to the soviet Labosay 12 1leo CIty: A Ilently

niten can be expectel to honor suca a serpest. Le Ideti lea

everent deal inca the soviet seniy.

Done 11395792791

SSOMET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002r 66

PAGE

193 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 152

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

54-11057

297219551003.

Cotta 16 January 1964

1:5: 195

15 5002(419269005

LORREST

NIGICEANLUH OF CONVERSATICN

PARIS, WALLETED 3S (OCCA.)

1. 772)

20:

Chei, SR

• DUBJECT

Cid Hork in Support of the Warren Commission

I.

Balon Io a sumary of the matters discussed in our

meeting with Messrs.

Angleton and Rocca

on the evening of

15 January I964.

In turI, MI. Angloton was reporting to us

the substance of his neeting with dr. Allen Dulles, st.

J. Ide Rankin, Chief Counsel,

Mr. Wellins of the Justice.

Departnent, Ir. Jelns and fr.

Rocca, which toas place on the

afternoon of 14 January 1984.

Mr. Angleton sald that ir. Dalias, apparently pro-

voked by press accusations that the Warren Comission has

been dilatory, asked CIA for suggestions ofquestións or

requests to be included in a letter to he wouzer torerent.

Iron the Warren Comission andito be transmitted

through the Department of state, would seek additional evi

denca which is presumably avallablo in Soviet files wilch

could assist the Commission's deliberations.

not have a datalled idea of what he wanted to ask the Soviets

I0 but did say that the questions should be "not too tech

Although M.. Angleton thought that the letter should

be written only alter the CIA report and corments have been

complated,

in order to make the letter as effective as possi

ble, M. Dulles felt it should go now,

be phrased

1n generall-

ties and alloy the Soviets nore flexibility in their handling

of the matter than would a more pointed letter based on our

concrete findings.

Mr. Dullos asked CIA Only for the questions

and not for a draft letter.

Mr. Murphy suggested that we ask

only for certain records rather than put specific questions

to the Soviets:

Murphy suggested that thesa night include

Soviet hospital records connected with Ice Oswald's attemptad

suicide, city visa and registration records for Moscoy and

Minsk, factory personnel records Iron Oswald's place of employ

rent, etc. Also Oswald's diary noted that his case had passed

through two cornissions in the USSR; ve might ask for the

records of these commissions as vell.

H°. Angleton said that

in transmitting our suggestions to r. Dulles we can lnclude

any introductory paragraphs or esplanatory comments that ve.

482-19225006

Document Number

Inegs:

For FOLA Revisite on

KAY 105 201:199: LiS

20-287248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

COLereT

PAGE

194 •s 212

COPY

NO.

D 2577

---

## Page 153

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

- 2-

felt necessary to explain to l. Dulles the direction of our

thinking about thesa proposals.

(Note:

I Instructed ir. Wigren to prepare a

drait of suggested queries,

using the

assistance o2 DERYABIN and

to have this

ready; if possible, by the closa of

business today.)

3.

Rankin stated that the Cornission wants to account

In dotall, minute by minute and hour

by hour,

for Oswald's

time outside the United States.

Bagley suggested that.

the narrative chronology of Oswald's stay in the Soviat Union

be convarted tos chronology tabulation which would pernit us

more stapleto insert added details and dates as we learned

of thenfia other documentation which we can expect to receive

shortly.

(Note: I Instructed l. Wigren to begin re

casting the narrative immediately into

this {orm.)

Mir. Rankin said that the Comission has a waist high

stack of documents and reports received from the FBI and Secret

Service which CIA has not yet received.

These Include Secret

Service Interviews with Marina Oswald, letters fron Lee Oswald

in the USSE and other material. He promised to send this

material to Mr. Helms shortly..

(Note: We will pass appropriate parts of this

material to DEBYABIN for further analy

sis along the lines of his earlier work

on documents already in our possession.)

5.. Messis. Angleton. Murphy and Bocca considered pERYA-

BIN's, Initial analysts O1 Harina Oswald's documents, and the

questians to which it rave rise.

to be a worthwhitud

important contr-bution.

CIA would be unable to nate any beri-

questions dad been a swerthe reocca suggested that D

Mr. Rocca suggested that DERYA

BIN's paper be recast into nore of a questionalre form and.

Ir. Bagley agreed, pointing out that DERYABIN's coment and

speculation could be put off to the side as explanatory con

ment on ezch question,

as appropriate.

Mr. Angleton and Mr.

Murphy thought that it would be desirable to send this paper

to the Harren Commission in advance of other CIA reports with

a menorandum informing the Commission that we would need

answers to this interim questionnaire in order to reconstruct

a detailed chronology of Oswald's time in the ussh and to

corment on his actlvity there.

The Connission would be asked

to procure the information Iron Marina through any Agency 1t

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G002r68

PAGE

COPY

NO.

195 •г 212

---

## Page 154

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(Note:

I Instructed Mr. Wigren to prepare the

DERYABIN paper 1n this format urgently.)

G. Hi. Angleton reported that he had asked the Commis

sion representatives certain questions pertairing to our use

of defectors in analysing the Oswald papers:

Has the Commission formally requesting us to

have defectors analyse the material?

Mr. Wellins thougat that the answer

to this question is yes.

However,

Mr. Angleton asked for 2 formal

request Iron the Commission to this

effect.

The FBI. has stated that 1ts

reports aze not to be passed to

ALLADLE, which may cause some compli

cations.

Would the Commission be prepared to assume the

burden of responsibility if such a defector should disa

gree with the Commission's opinions of comeup with a

radically different hypothesis or Inde pretation?

The persons present said that the

Comission would.

C.

If a defector who had contributed to the analy-

sis of the documents should be unwilling to appear person-

ally and formally before the Conmission, would the

Commission exercise its subpoena powers against him?

Mr. Rankin thought that if there was

a risk involved for the defector, the

Commission would not do so.

However,

Rankin pronised to get a fornal answer

from the Commission on this point.

Fill the classification we put on our corres

pondence to the Commission be hozored?

They answer was that in prisciple our

classiftcation would be honored.

Hopy

over, i. Rankis yarned those present

that ChA' should

not hope to evace crit

ficarion of Its material.

COU 26 63

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

NO.

196 • 212

---

## Page 155

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

52-11057

Mr. Angleton reported that Hr. Richard Davis is repre-

senting the interests of the Department of state in this

inquiry.

ir. Thompson had ruled himself out because be was

Ambassador to the Soviet Union at the time of the avents in

7. One matter which had been brought to light by the

Oswald case was the need for a mechanism in the United States

Government to record and assimilate our knowledge of the soviet

handling of American defectors to the USSi.

apparently in some danger of criticism for its latlure to keep

in eys enostald alter his return.

Similarly CIa has not

systematically collected nor compiled information on Soviet

defector handling-

Berlin Base had kept a list of American

defectors at one time, but these individuals have not been

debriefed on their return to the West.

8.

The Commission representatives at the 14 January 1964

meeting estimated that the larren Commission would need from

three to sis nonths to complate its task.

Mr. Bagley raised the question of the desirability

of having DERYABIN participate personally, representing the

FBI as an interpreter perhaps, in a debriefing of Marina.

¡Wessrs. Angleton and lurphy were convlaced that CIA mat vold

direct Involvement with this investigation Although it

less efticient as a method, we will content, ourselves with

putting witten questions to Marina to bee

Agency the Commission may choose to use.

Tennent H. Bagley

Chief, SR/CI

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002r70

PACE

COPY

197 ≤ 212

NO.

---

## Page 156

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

@ROCCA NOTE tO HELES ON

Talk with DULLES on al Mered

' " in ..

XAAZ-27169

23 March 1961

Dick:

4/3/64

Had a briofing at Allen Dulles' house on Saturday after -

np0r. (We were assembled to discuss his taping session with

tap"Deryabla, Halan Mactuas, Donovanand Ha

on Bald

I2a New

Yorktonigk. Nona of the othera were pregent.)

AWD ahowed me a letter ha had received from Rankin

recertly expressing the desire to reach a modus vivendi in

order to allay the story af CIA'a possible sponsorahip of Oswald's

activity. The polat of the communication to AWD was to suggest

that he serve as & ile zeriever for the Coxamiasion. The letter

outlined alternativo possibilities in this matter (affidavit from

the DGI, etci)o.

In my presence, AWD wrote the answer:

do. Declining the invitatios to serve as file

reviewer for good and sufficient reasons.

b.: Stating his willingness to provide a state-

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

Dacument Number

"estimony to the Commission with respect to

his knowledge of Oswald during his tenure as DCI. He

618=793

noted in the tail-off of the letter that as far as he could

of Oswald

remember-he had never had any knowledge at any time

prior to the date of the assassination,

201289248

CS: CAPH

Rock

23. Mar bx

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002671

PACE

CCP!

NO.

198•212

---

