# 104-10180-10081

## Page 1

104-10180-10081

" т.

TSD- SDB STENO $92

10 Julj 1964

MESORANDUM FOR: C/WIl/SA

ATTENTION

Mr. Alfonso

Rodriguez

FROM

: TSD/OA/Special Devices Branch

SUBJECT

:

Identification and Purpose of Contents

of

Box marked

"Special Fircrorks"

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduse

The nailed plywood box was pried open on 24 June.

1s a kit for making an incendiary device.

Contents are six

clear piastic, pill type bottles with white plastic tops, filled

with metallie colored powders, a plastic box and lid.

bottles are labeled

"Continental Plastics Oklahoma City" on the

bottoms, one marked 5 drams, the other, & drams.

bottles are not marked with a manufactuier's name kut are stamped

"P-7" on the bottoms; one has the numbers 23

and 0 opposite each

other on the bottom,

the second has l6 and 0, the third, 10 and 0

and the last, a and 0.

and the d sr 4 00 10

measuring 4" X 21" & 1"

either plastic or cellu-

In one end of the box is a round hole sealed on the in-

side by a thin plece of celluloid covered with aluminum foil.

A compartment is formed by a thin piece of celluloid, 1/8' from

the end with the hole.

This partition is perforated

with several

holes and covered on

one side with a layer of aluminum foil. The

lid is perforated with several noles and sealed on the inside

surface with what appears to be a piece of ride transparent tape.

With the exception of a stamped number "g' on the inside of the

bottom of the box there are no identifying marks on the box or

From the appearance of the box, covered on the inside

with silvery particles of porder, it

must have been loaded at

least once.

Glue or rubber cement, probably a sealant with water-

- de

F 7

---

## Page 2

proofing capabilities, pas used to seal the lid to the bos.

1. Four of the plastle bottles are marked with the number

"3" on

their tops, one sith number

"2" and the offer sith number

Those marked '3°

contain extremoly fine silrer colored

•powder: the one marked " slightly coarser silver powder and

the bottle marked

"I" a small amount of coarse pale red granules.

All the bottles contain the followin; substances:

Fe (iron)

(potassium)

K7033 potassia serorale)

(potassium perchlorate)

A trace of Ja' (sodiun) is also present in all bottles.

5. The following ratlos have been determined: -

Bottle #1

Bottle #2

Bottle #3

<

Fe

KNO 3

1

2

3

KC103

2

KC104

1

2

6.

Because of the high oxygen content in each of the three

mixtures they obviously

are used as first fire mixes. 1.e.,

casily

ignitable substances which In turn van isnite other bardes 0- Tengen

materials fuse

it appears that an ignition device

of safety

or incendiary time pencil) is inserted in the hole

into the smaller compartment.

The pale red sixture, because of its

relatively high oxygen content,

is probably usec as 3 first fire

mix in this compartment.

Mixed with it may be the contents of

bottle number

"2"

slightly less in oxygen content but higher in

iron and consequently hotter burning.

In the nain coralftment

would be the contents of bottles number "3" high in costent, hottest

burning of all three mixtures and relatively more citicult

to 1g

ni terere

it not for the boost given by the contents of bottle number

"*2" .

As the material in the smaller compartment icaites it burns

through the perforations in the partition igniting the contents of

the main compartment.

The heat from this combustion melts the tape

covering the perforations

in the lid thus allowing oxygen in the air

to aid and accelerate the burning.

---

## Page 3

1d-0000

The device may be used to start fires by surrounding

do ridi combustlule secondary medla such as paper. oily rars.

wood shavings, paints and turpentine in a ship's paint locker,

small metal shavings in a machine shop, excelsior in a vare-

house, etc. Only when a sufficient quantity of the secordary

combustible material is buruing is there a reasonable chance

that the primary target rill be ignited.

The device sight also

be placed in the seat cushions of

an automobile, redged in a

corner of a vehicle engine or placed in a box of ammunition.

There is nothing new in the composition of this derice:

it appears to utilize well known principles of incendiary attach

using substances that are readily available and proven as depend

able ingredients. Great care vould have to be exercised in sater

proofing an assembled device if it was planned to leave it exposed

for a long period of time; several hours in a hot, damp cliate

would be an example of such an exposure.

mixtures are most effective,

in storage, etc.

When the plywood box was opened it was observed that the

contents were packed in sawdust.

Protruding from the sardust tas

a stubbed out filter cigarette. There was no indication of

scorched sawdust.

TSD/OA/SD&

Distribution:

Orig

1 - Addressee

3

118K

---

