# 104-10125-10185

## Page 1

104-10125-10185

209

06

---

## Page 2

'UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT UI JUILUE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

An Reply, Please Refer 80

File No.

January 5, 1968

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES

INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

The Communist Party and other organizations are

continuing their efforts to force the United States to

change its present policy toward Vietnam. There is, set

forth below a summary of current and planned future activity

through whith they hoge to accomplish this end.

Jeannette Rankin Brigade

It was previously reported that the Jeannette

Rankin Brigade, a nationwide group of fomen who are opposed

to the war in Vietnam, will sponsor a demonstration in

Washington, D. C., on

January 15, 1968, to petition Congress

to end the war in Vietnam.

A source tho has furnished reliable information in

the past has advised that the members of the Brigade from

San Francisco had tentatively chartered a plane to transport

its members to this demónstration. These plans have been

canceled as the San Francisco group was unable to obtain

enough individuals to attend the demonstration to justify a

• chartered, flight.

1c6z2*Mds

Zena, Drucknan and Hazel Grossman,

both residents

of the San Francisco area and no nave been identified as

Communist Party nembers in the past, have made arrangements

to participate in this demonstration. Vivian Hallinan, also

a resident of the San Francisco ared and Executive Secretary

o1 the Brigade, will participate in the demonstration.

Terence hallinan, the son of Vivian Hallinan who is a member

of the Communist

Party, Northern District of California,

stated in October,

1962, that his/ mother would be willing to

• join the Connunist Party it her husband would also join

REVEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON 5/8/94

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL (NAR

CONFIDENTIAL

Group I

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

---

## Page 3

1d-0n0d

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES

INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

This source further stated that the demonstrators

would present a petition to the Speaker of the House of

Representatives and request that he present the petition to

the House of Representatives as

the first order of business

when the Congress reconvenes.

Mrs

Nancy S. Pendergrast), the Atlanta, Georgia,

coordinator for thé Brigade, has

advised that the Brigade

will hold a workshop on the

evening of January 15, 1968, in

Washington, D. C., at which time they will make plans for

the next day"s activities which will include contact of

their Congressmen.

MrS Coretta King, the wife of Reverend Martin

— Luther King, Jroy and a national sponsor of the Brigade,

is expected to join Jeannette Rankin as part of a 50-voman

national delegation to attend the opening day of Congress.

Other Demonstrations

152.

A San Antonió National Security Seminar is

scheduled to be held at Trinity University, San Antonio,

Texas, between January 8-19; 1968, conducted by the

Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Washington, D. C.

Military sponsors for the Seminar are the Fourth Air Force

Reserve Region, Fourth United States Arny, and the Eighth

* Naval District. Governor John Connally of Texas is

scheduled to give the keynote speech at the opening day of

* the Seminar.

The San Antonio_Conmittee to-Stop.the.Varin

*VIetnam, at a"meeting" held December 28, 1967, agreed to

_picket the Seminar on a daily basis to voice opposition

to present United States policy in Vietnam.

Pickets will

not demonstrate on University property for

• fear of arrest

but will conduct their demonstrations near the University.

The San Antonio Committee to Stop the War in

Vietnam is a group in opposition to United States policy in

Vietnam.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

DEMIONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES

INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

On January 3, 1968, approxinately 40 individuals

gathered in front of the United States Courthouse, Foley

Square,

New York, New York, carrying signs and placards

protesting the war in Vietnam and announcing "April 3-

the next day of draft card turn-in." The demonstration

was sponsored by! The Resistance, a group which opposes the

draft. During the demonstration, several participants

burned papers which were alleged to be Selective Service

documents.

Leonard Brody.,

la member of The Resistance and a

spokesman for the group,

announced that the demonstration

was held in support of Alan Haifley who he stated was going

on trial in Denver, Colorado, for refusing induction into

the armed forces.

On January 3, 1968, 10 youths demonstrated in

front of the Federal Courts Buildingy, Minneapolis, Minnesota. •

This group carried placardstreading "End the Draft" and

"We Support Alan Haifley, During the demonstration, two

of the participants entered the building and presented

Assistant United States Attorney J, Laxl Cuad with a statement

which supported Haifley.

One of the signers of this document

was; Trank Verrall, Jr., who before his resignation in

i March, 1967,

was a member of the District Board, Minnesota-

Dakotas District, Communist Party, USA.

CONFIDENTIAL

3

---

