# 104-10331-10365

## Page 1

104-10331-10365

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

ATtachnent'"

From the Desk of

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

OGC/LD

07/22/98 03:15:09 PM

OGC searches under JFK Act

Per your request, OGC has conducted searches for documents regarding Lawrence Houston and Scott

Breckinridge for the time period 1959-64

There are no OGC files on either individual. However, documents were located on each individual as

described below.

With respect to Scott Breckinridge, compute searches of OGC record systems were conducted and

approxi:rately 100 documents were located, dating from 1977 to 1996. I have reviewed the computer

summaries of all these documents, only 5 mention HSCA or President Kennedy which / will make available

to you. The remainder deal with prepublication review of manuscripts written by Breckinridge. One

document deals with a unrelated FOIA request by another individual which mentions Breckinridge's name.

I will retain these summaries should you wish to review them yourself.

With regard's to Lawrence Houston, during the relevant time period, OGC published a volume entitled

"Opinions of the Office of General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency". Each volume contains all the

opinions from all the attorneys in the office during a particular year. I am currently in the processing of

reviewing the volumes for 1959-64. Please advise as to how you want to handle the appropriate review of

these volumes.

CC:

Sent on 22 July 1998 at 03:15:09 PM

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

AHachment7"

21 May 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mary Lou Cummings,

DCI/IRO

FROM:

SUBJECT:

•, DCI/OIG/ IMO

(C) Breckinridge, LHO Report, and

Report Indexes/ Inventory

1. (AIUO) The OIG/IMO has made exhaustive searches

both manually and electronically.

The attached is all of

the responsive material that could be found.

2. (AlUO) It appears that all reports and material

done by the IG on JEK or LHO have long since been turned

over to OLC (currently OEXA). Shelflists and a memorandum

confirming this are attached.

An electronic search produced 240 'hits' on

I personally went through all 240 and have

selected only a few from that number that may be responsive.

4 .

(AIUO) The Office of the Inspector General does

not keep an inventory or index of IG cases.

5. (AIUO) If you have any questions regarding this

memo, please call me on X77081.

Thank you.

Distryoution:

Orig

addressee

1 Cy - DCI/OIG/IMO file

---

