# 104-10130-10343

## Page 1

104-10130-10343

TRAVEL ORDER

TDY

PCS

INVITATIONAL

EOD

OF OUR TRAVEL ORDER NO.

Baris D. Termaoit

(FDD)

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

ViTICIAL STATION

OFFICE PHONE

Fearington, •D.C.

GRADE

GS-71

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR

CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Washington, D.C. to Netoo Olty and retura.

MODE: A1s

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

FIRPOSE: Til replacenest for Station laployee thile on home leave. Do Not Reprodues

Area Classlfied Categuy A

BEGIN

TRAVEL DURATION

END

DOMESTIC

15 Ang. "EO

$

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

FOREIGN

MAXIMUM

OTHER

(See below)

AUTOMOBIE ALLOWANCE

THIS EXCEE

CENTS PER MI.

AS MORE

COST- BY COM-

ADVANTAGEOU

O GOV'

90 days IDY

99

NAME :

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER

FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS

ADVANCE RETURN

SIGNATURE

COORDINATION

TITLE & COMPONENT

Kelkies is

C(1)

FORM 540

#-5Đ

NFG 6-3g

V/PV

OBSOLETE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS.

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

SO CASH OR OTHER

ISPOSITION OF EFFECT

UTHORIZATION

SHIPMENT SPORA ORARY

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED

UNACCOMPANIED

LES AND MODE

LES AND MODE

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

$1400.00 (02)

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

DELIGATION REFERENCE NO.

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

1135-5700-3000

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED

DATE

SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER

YES

ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

NO

DATE

111l

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

COMPONENT

SIGNATURES. C. REMO

CALLY BLOCEZZI BUUNUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

§ July 1960

COMPONENT

SIGNATURE I CHILD

DAphses, Ops.

§ Jalge 1960

(28-68)

SIRES

---

