# 104-10216-10408

## Page 1

104-10216-10408

Meme

to

18 June 1965

AnTASI 1 contacta in Europo!

da troi $128, mant

AGLASH-3

AckH IP-1

An VENTURA lner « WHIP l' Jeweler friend in Rose and Ceneva. (NSHIP 2).

JODo LUta ILDiTO Y renendos (21v0a in Paris - sarpied to a cousin of the Conto

aha "31 Anco'!

Jose Venogas Valdospino - ponalily st11l back In Havankol Vice Pronident ol

the International Union of Studente (IUS) 1n Prague, Ala "El Ching" an

il lener.

Inciano HINVES Mestre (In andrid - LASH Inon both Nieven brothere woll - othor

brother st111 1n Cuba.)

Hernan HERYANDEZ LOrD - Spain

Aneries Claneroe and hey husband iarlo Fissolo, Ilving Pario.

"Cayo Confitea" - Lula Bruno GARCIA Cerdoira.

Tries to find out LASH'S plans for

rench intelligence, fer which he works. Dangarous to lISH • but ight tr

to trick a station by aying heis a friend - unich he setually 1a.

Oustavo ARCOS y Bergnes - Cuban Aabassador Lo Bolgiul, Currently st11l In Havans,

but due back.

Inte CRESPO Castro - good Iriend to LASH-l. (ierted hard in Cube to got UNSRAFU/9

back In his job when be mas first fired in Parla in early 64 or co.

CHESPO

travolo constantly batran Havana and Zurope buying shipa and materied for

Casiro. Ris use by IlSi cannot be suled out.)

SADOUBT-1 - Inon LASH vull » and for long.

JASNAPU/ (9 - and hia vito,

Miguel "Cucu" de LEON - LIGIDDI-I//-ASH»] contaet.

Norally Kiai1 - travele Spain

U3yArO/5 - 1u8 in Spain - going Paria. Better after narvoun brenion.

Felipe ILAUDY Fernandes - CIS. Good friend te LASH for & long tIn. LASH belleve

hin rocruitable.

He travela to Europe e no LASH could une him. Usen a second

pesaport in name of Jacinto Cimerol.

Hanolo (ParOs1) RAY y RIVerO - MBANGI, ILSA In contact - and RAY travelo to

Barope fron time to t1n0,

ABIDDI-l'e eror nho travel to Spain on LASHl busineseg

NI2O GESSER Pujol

TARI AUTOLIO WINTERO IbarDia (AAJAVA

Carlos PellpetTHETE foraro

LENORID

Intento SANZ OCEDA 0IO

ADURI ARTI•E y Buésa (A-2IDDT-1)

aldei

Fia 54672182553032

addizion to chone, hast hes maek for SW, et

"El Saagro Raymindo Tones, aho linea in Merio,

bat was

to degrate to lIS

mascelo Astine Vega-bligo jeveles frene in Haran

edro tusique tropesa y del vortaé ata ''lansto"

Tate, ,

---

