# 104-10120-10164

## Page 1

104-10120-10164

STANTATO FORM NO. 64

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: Chict 55D

DATB: 24 AugJ6

FROM : SE

SUBJECT:

(1)*65077

(2)*66378

The IG, Mr Kirkpatrick, mill appeal our decision

against

This es

conversion of the

too sofasts afore to Gra, Gabalf.

representations to hum bu Goth subgetu During

7.11

In the care of sclyast (i), please. chea with Fil Lacien

and eat then to verity of podible that he youre the

Up at the instagation and with the blowing of Speckl

who was his FAI Case O.

Agent Eward W. Buckliffled again our I loadl need is

lesson I Call for

The some of the too codes

STANDARD FORM NQ. 64

Office Merurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE:

CHIEF.

FROM SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

ot actua??,

mes sabject to join the 2p but told him ash they

Ling subject Learned sorte

marita.

Bate riter that i fernd energetin.

---

## Page 2

..STANDARD FORM NO, 6E

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Record

DATB: 21 Felo 1957

FROM : 52

SUBJECT: Balmes N. HIDALGO - * 65077

Mo Helms called a neiting on

19 Fit luth reprentting

of lutt dod

the undersigned to dosenes a proposed by

the If that subget be converted to statt employee.

It was aqueed that the save

would

depend on

how much

the fuet that sulget had been

wally publicited do on FBI Informant wall effect the

his cover, and his possable integrate

into State Dept,

I was asked to long wire of State on

their policy old was

intarmed they wall much preter the

dot to integrate a sudget of this type. -I so ratsoned

Mr Helms. - Final outcon rests &taxen lApP ad IG

SE

STANDARD FORM NQ. 64

Office Memurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE 3 s August 56

FROM

CHIEF,

SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

SUBJECT:

#65077

'it yes in pries

72. 1=5

---

