# 104-10071-10107

## Page 1

T104-10071-101071

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN) •

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS+

MFR.

4-63

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap

and iorward to RID

2.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no: and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

e/el/so

3

4.

5.

b.

7.

9.

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED! FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

4051142)

ABSTRACT

INDEX

Tras

6100

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

#7542

ACTION

FILE TITLE

Fpid

F- CircaW) ATT

2 - R5

Pully Sen

3 - 6/ Araa DiS

4 - Station

file

Indexed:

28 Пр 78

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

200-6-387/3

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER'

SENT 70124A 02412

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE I/RYBAT .

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, Far East Division

1450.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

TROM

Chief of Station, Wellington

MICROFILM

Si SECT

MECHAOS - Activities of Andrew PULLEY in New Zealand

ATRON REQUIRED - REFERENCES

References:

WELLINGION-138 15 Tul Fa CRE Ply

B. EZWA-2378, 29 July 1970 (RE Puss dens)

Action: FYI

Attached herewith is a report prepared by MLDUST and

passed to the Station on 8 September 1970 which deals with

the activities of Subject during his visit to New Zealand

in july of this year.

Attachment:

As stated, h/w

Distribution:

3 - FE w/att h/w

7542

¡CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Izwa-2412

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE T/RYBAT

DATE

8 September 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 3

14-000,00

" ::

SORET

20/0/34

77922 02

20D2 SHADES SOCTALISES 90 11.2

P13002

nefer to correspondence restina vita

16th

920 concerning Andrew PUNaL.

You

1a0esez0es

ise coblowing detoils of his visit to

declara.

2.

e wisdo was sponsored

incorponated.

in

the

Victosia

University

anoodleyist onganisatinns were

said

nis

inceanal

expenses.

collection

weS

3522

bowards

At

ons

however,

the expense of

Pumar's boneward

Souzney

to the Jaireà

States.

5.

"Socialiss lotion" the publication of the Socialist

Action League: Bare

Pollar's speakind itinerary as

20Z1OwS:

1? 5aiy - Tellington:

Adamess to anti-was

zally

outside 7o:2 Hall

15 July - Palmerston North: Addreso as Massey

University

1p coir - madland: Address to raily in Albest

Pazl

20 Juit - Familton: 12 1001g

eddress in readaci's

College Fall

hustland: 7.30 p.m. Auckland University -

address

on "Black Netionalisn

in the U.s."

21 Juir - Christohurch : Adoness in Eorticultural

Hell

22 Ju15 - Wellington: Address in St Francis Hail on

"Black Nationalis:

It was encoucese daab. exoopt wese otherwise stated PULLEY

:?-+

Upsugge

in

the 5. 3.

DIESE basiTed by air in Wellington on 15th July

52o0 tobachin waeze ke had undercaken a speaking bours

the s42202?, PULLEY

said that the Tert obate

Fairesador

Parades"

9316.

one Cambodien invasion bad united

2414627

saeinat

cho war,

and

predicted that

20TOL5

joines

by ordinary

-010

29

woula

Anonicans.

Ze

said

152"

nobito

interfere with

10cal polities

in

inchodded in pera.2 above PULIE

and other

spacena

sddroosed open sin rallies in

Wellington and Auckland;

but oa neither

---

## Page 4

14-00000

2.

out on reiches occasion vas there any violence.

In fact

the 25297 of about

in Kellanatos mus deacribed

DRess s3

one o2

the nost peaceful ard onderiy

deso-stantions sere for some time.

Foinue ande cy PULlEY during talks and interviews

102en8 Collors:

Libeaution

setoriaton

as a struggle for black

(Statenents during

22bo2ried 170h july).

Tiebren

war and racie? aisorimination in

aze manifestations of that countay's concupo

econosis bage.

Rue osgitalist class has attempted to

parascuate

sas cyth of sacial inequality in order to

te wonting class divided, waile

the Vietnar war

munshes sucempt ty that same class to protect its:

Soozonio 1rb02057S.

However,

the latter bas

had the

salutary erfect of uniting students and workers.

4a10e22

En opposition to she was. (During acdress

11oent Pena 19: July).

12÷.

Le earpected revolution in the United states within

He woold like the revolution to be without

bloodsand

our te cannot see the

"bourgeoisie" giving up

Dowes without a

spousale.

At the age

01

15 as one of a

Landay o2

aire

children living in a Cleralona ghetto, he

anà pedalod dauge to cegroes,

It was the assassination

in Canistdauson "aress" 22 July).

The zuling class had the power to keep the blacks

ins mindaci economic level

- they were taught to

because they heo

0524. 00e.

(Spaaring to the socialist Lotion

League in

eringoon - reponted in "Evening Post". 23 July).

Duriag his visit to wellingion

PULLEY Stayed with

vene energed by a laozi

mencer of the Connunist Party of

FULLEY left Dew Zealand on 2522 July, reportedly

20288228418 12362229

ming tous in the Philippines and

Abbadaed de a cutting toon "Socialist iotion"

samarising the sesulta of PuliaY's visit.

the

o2gan

02 the

9202802240 U0ay 15 naturally takes

an optinistic

Ther: o2

StengeD escused by him.

However.

a probably

one abaldate abnesement be Punder's tanact in dew Zealana

is ronde

in an antiole in the provarcial papez "Manawaii

•Evening Sbandara"

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Exasaga Sonadera"& cony of which is also

$ 570

2epenis view saas

televicion appearances bore

autached.

out the: news-

Called

audience.

It was paobably his failure

"get acrose to his

0H:936

other

to zoceive less

is a apesitor

crerseas zadical visitors.

publicity shha sone

---

