# 104-10012-10080

## Page 1

1104-1012-10080)

Executi:, Registry

468-5/60

10510

15 October,

1968.

Dear

Dick,

has sought my views

on the possibility of declassifying a Warren Commission

document in which reference Is made to the

The document in question Is CD. 971

dated 22nd May,

1964, logether with an attachment dated

29th. November, 1963.

I would recommend strongly that CD.971 and

its attachment should not on any account be declassified or

publicly released for reasons which include

the following:

(1)

It has never been offically, stated that there

is a "C.l.A.

Station or thal

there are C.L.A. officers in

This has been avoided as a

pons or puricy.

(11)

Publication of these facts would invoke a

"spate of questions by the Press and in the

which would be contrary to the

national: security: Interest, for example :

(a) Who approved the establishment of

the

Station"?

(b) What is its composition and location?

(c) What is its purpose in

(Allegations have already been made

that C.l.A. is interfering in

domestic affairs.)

(d) With what

deal?

agencies does

it

which has not been

publicly disclosed, could be brought

into discussion.

(e)

With what other foreign agencies does the

(1)

What

such. dealings

control is there over

SECRET

1118

---

## Page 2

13-00000.

(1I1)

Questions could be raised as to the investigation

by the

of the

the validity of its quoted conclusion and

the result of its further enquiries.

I am giving a copy of this letter to your

Station.

With kindest regards and best wishes.

Yours reman,

Richard Helms, Esq.;

Director,

Central Intelligence Agency,

Washington, D.C., 20505,

United States of America.

---

