# 104-10170-10468

## Page 1

104-10170-10468

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

-SECRET

" 1383

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:

Garrison sad the kennody Assaosinalloa:

Guy Versac JOHNSON (201-207373)

1. Subject was born on 14 September 1913 la New Orleans,

Loulalana.

2. He lo delendical with the Guy L. JOHNSON nendoned la

Plos or Folltica (pago 151) no an early delenao attorney for Clay L.

SHA!, JOHNSON was defeated by t'rank SHEA (Jia GARRISON'o

candidate, according lu Plot or Politica) In 1963 fos a seat on the

Crimieal District Court.

3. Accordas to Rainparta (Januasy 1968, pago 13) JOHNSON

Was as ONI reserva officer who recoinmended Guy BANISTER tO ONI.

1. JOHNSON was considered for uno by CIA as a contrace agent

la 1958 under Projoct POKODIAK. The clogranco request was cascellad,

howerer, and no reason was given. JOHNSON was the Nary Olstrict

Intelligenco Officer on Guam al the claio and was appareally to have been

uned to backatop the Agency fralning boing conduciod on Salpas. The

¿aquant ladicates that JOHNSON was "parsiaily witting" and posadbly

already in llalson with the Agoncy.

5.

In 1951 ONI inrestigated charges that JOHNSON had porjured

and salalded binnell illle servias as an Mielolant District detorney in.

New Orleans but concluded that he was not at fault and cloared disi for:

TOP SECRET ON 11 May 1954.:

•6. The above accusalions vera made by a Judgo l'llliam 3.

O'HARA of the Colnitnal Diotrict Court. A Judge Malealm V. O'HARA.

who can againar GARRISON lor District Allurney la 190ó, wao a meniser

of a three judge panel which proalded over the preliminary boaring of

Clay L. SHAW.

It ls not known li the two Judges O!HARA are related.

7.

According to Edward SUGGS. l Jack MARTIN (Aul a rollable

BOUrCe) JOHNSON claimed to have a secres US Senate docurent called.

---

## Page 2

104-10170-10468

-SECRET

Rbe "Homme Report"'. Thile report allegedly proves that Robert

KENNEDY "had a contract ous" on tidel CASTRO al the dline Proaldens

Koanody vas assasslesiod. JOHNSON allogedly slated thas bo could

nol volunteer to go-before lio Orlenan Parish Grand Jury, bur lhas ho

wanied GARRISON to sok hiin to do so (The Houstonian, 20 rebraary 1968).

Datributlon:

Orig a 1 - Ollica of General Counsel

1 - Olice of Securtly

1 - A/DCI

1 - REA chrono

¿ - Garrison Mlles

N

SECRET

---

