# 104-10163-10112

## Page 1

104-10163-10112

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATICN

• PROCESSING

PAn.

POSED

ACTION

1O

BARKED FOR INDEXING

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

MU INDEXINE REQUIREO

INFO

ONLY QUALIFIED

HLALQUARTERS DESA

CAR JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Ch1e1 of Station, JWAVE,

ABSTRACT

A MICROFILA

CUTE TYPIC/Operational

ANCLATTER-1; Query on Citizenship.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

AR: Please investigate status, take appropriate remedial steps

and advise.

REF: WAVE 9311, 14 July 1964

Prior to his current trip for training, AMCLATTER/1

requested permission to make a stopover in IrMETAL on his return

to JUWAVE to inquire about the status of his citizenship.

We

offered instead to have the matter looked into during his train-

ing course and theng

if there was anything his presence in

ZRIETAL could accomplish,

to have arrangements made for appropriate

contacts.

To this end he submitted a memorandum outlining his

recollection of the history of his case. It is paraphrased in

sterile form below.

In 1949-50,

for approximately 16 months, I worked

in Identity A.

Before taking the appointment I consulted with

Identity B, who warned me that I was endangering my citizenship.

but also promised to help in case of trouble because I had offered

- to cooperate fully with ODEARL. It so happened that I quickly

worked my way up to the rank of Sergeant and was detailed to liaison

with ODYOKE agencies.

This facilitated my volunteering information

not normally given in liaison contacts,

and even my fulfilling of

requirements levied by them, particularly ODEARL and ODACID.

b. I believe that it must have been Identity C who

made the charge that deprived me of my citizership on the techni

cality that to have achieved my rank and position I mist be

considered a PBRUVEN citizen.

Identity C and I had crossed

swords over a frf..d of mine

who had beer refused a FEPrIME visa.

Later Identity C was fired for having beed involved in a visa

selling racket.

ACCOM-

PLISHED

DOC FONTARDED W/Q 5/C

Attachments: S/C

Ao

Identity

'Llat

BY RID/AM 28 JuLY

Montinued) 20l-251689

B. Personal Documente

DATU TrPED

DATE DIBPATCHED

Distribution:

IS COPY.

ruly 34

SUL 24 2964 4

ROBE REFERENCE +

UNPATCH STRIDOL AND NUMBER

€a: 13002 n21

UFGA-19973

19149-3-21/3

jid.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CONTINUAHION OF

• DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SEEREI

DISPATCH SYMUOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-16973

Ijentity B was very sympathetic and arranged to

have my suit for reinstatement take: by Identity D which handled

most ODYOKE legal business locally:

In 1951 Identity D referred

my case to a ZRISTAL law firm whose name I cannot recall exactly

but which initiated legislative action

for me.

¿travelled to

ARMeTAL once, to lobby on my own behalf, and was able to speak

with Identity E who promised to make a

favorable recommendation.

Travel costs and other problems prevented my following up,

however, and nothing ever came of the bill as far as I know.

In 1959 Identity D called me and told me that my

services would be needed again in view of the Communist tendencies

of the AMTHUG-] regime.

I agreed to cooperate without hesitation,

and was introduced to Identity F, KUBARK Chief of Station, who

assigned me to Isentity Go

Together we organized a group to

infiltrate the PBRUMEN government.

I was evacuated to the JMAVE

area with my family in the fall of 1960,

and was met by Identity

the course of my relations with him and Identity I, I was

promised thot my citizenship status would be inquired into

officially, and that my service to KUBARK would resolve any doubts

that might have existed in the case.

In the summer of 1961g I decided in sheer desperation

to drive to ZRVETAL and to ask Identity. I for direct helo in the

citizenship matter.

My JAWAVE contacts, I explained, claimed that

there was no record of my quest for citizenship reinstatement.

Identity I sent someone to take notes on my case, and also intro-

duced me to Identity J as my next supervisor in the JulAVE area.

Identity J later advised me that my

file had been mislaid, hut

that the case was being reactivated.

In March 1962, cover business provided an opportunit

or me to leave the country long enough to re-enter with a

permanent residence visa.

At that time I was told by the Im

cration officer (to my dismay) that my five-year waitin; period for

citizenship would begin on the date of my re-entry.

cover trip in April 1963,

I met Identity K who said that he could

not believe that my citizenship had not been

reinstated by that

time.

He said that he and Identity I had been given to understand

that 1t was all taken care of.

I wish to make the record clear that I have never

appliod for citizenship in any other country; that I did everything

possible under the above circumstances to maintain my PBPRIME

citizenship; that I tried by every means available to have my

citizenship reinstated after I learned that 1t hed been tekon fron

me (without a hearing, by the way); and that the perfur passport

used in my evacuation

was procured only after assurances from

Idontity I that the action would not have an adverse eftect upon

attempte to reinstate my citizenship.

It wold be appreciated 11 Headquarters could find some

way of expeditire ANCIATIER-Is case.

Bringing this prodizamant to

& satisfactory conclusion would relieve him of a personal dilemma

which might weigh heavily to the dotriment of his operational

effectiveness,

Any questions or instructions on the mattor up until

20 August should he referred to

ANCLATTER-! through his training

case silicer (note reference and provious correspondence jor train

sing 51t0).

For your

anformation, copies of four identity iteme in

ANCLATTER-l's posesenior aro aluo forwarded under separate cover.

COP:

S$:

VIBR

400 13e

USE PREVIOUS NOTION

---

## Page 3

14-00000

. FONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLAGSIFICATION

1B.SPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMEER

S/C ATTACHMENT A TO

UFGA-16973, 21 JULY 64

IDENTITY LIST

Identity A: The Cuban Police Department under Col. Jose

Carames

of the Prio Administration®

Identity B: Mr. Fnu Spears, legal attache at the Embassy.

Identity C: Mr. Fnu Webster, vice-consul at U.S, Embassy,

Havana.

Identity D: Dr. Mario Lazo of the law firm Cuba-lazo.

Identity E: Mrs. Ruth B. Shipley.

Identity F: Mr.

Identity G: Mr.

Identity H: Mr. Bernard Reichardt.

Identity I: Mr.

Howard Hunt.

Identity J: Mr.

10}

dior 18618g and

CS COPY

S/ClA to 15C-A -11.473

wAR PArvIOUS COITION,

ALAÉCIFICATION

701-231682

PAGE NO.

П

3/BR

---

## Page 4

8/C ATTACHMENT B 1UFGA-16973, 21 July 64

---

## Page 5

scitse bx- ises

AMERIC: Y FAREIGN SEPVIGE

BARE E1 1/107:"P ASS RIETTAATISN

Jorat-' la 5st8 seijerl, ll ts tosni sat tar tucal ens l

1os6ms. J uly 29, :1949

BNS PN L3 YSH / 2500

таран « Пів »ві фірінв

BA¢$18в

sleng is.

Omtes ftntou al Amorte

Livi s,d- Habana, Cuba

-tusy 2 19ut

IONATHaE ON SCAREI

Consul

.n Habana, Cuba

Bno imm blasch 17 , 1917

• Importeri

setr: -

-r 3m

i Bron. im Brown

immn_Scar on right

shoulder

le sil e

i Thite türeen

cinca iq45

alver retuir

to UiS.as

uroimidedton

CARD OF

IDENTITY AND

REGISTRATION

H AUNg WMOmAR

OFTICIAL NOTATIONS

CI-

5275

6$870

FOREIGN SERVICE

of ibe

UNITED STATES

2OF AMERICA

A "N N8OX MON

SSSI $ & AON

OIIINAT

"B"

s/10

talir,

CS

COPY

DnD y00

3N ostCt

CO QITAI D0 Gi De:) SOVW 1

WOSMSEAT!

"CHT

3 IN N AVIS NO MITINTI OROMRLNI ONY PSOUNTA DE

SO AMONa O S GESO SE DOI A U)

D e

WeST.leumi

s9t.1g-15210 4220

MIQ

BVAM/ AITNOUTNOI 10DIMSL INOIDA C1 |51310

19 СHAS02

-poray tete

* •A AU SSISCTY®

33 s g ạt e

---

## Page 6

14-00000

ISPSSLIC UP CUBA

C12º

in PasincE us month

SaS.

Beforo me,

Rel lastington...

Vice Consul of

the Units States

or Merica, July cornissioned and qualified,

person-lly cane BERNARD LEON PARSER DE, io, being

duty pintea unier oat, deposao ane suys as 10110us:

..sy nine is Bernard Leon Barker. Jr.

lice and airess is Jon 9 rauna Santa d el presardanao

3 on the Mach I297

ãt-Vedade Habana, Cuba

an a citizen or ne countri

Minor children:.

Кака

Place of bisth

Date of Birth

Afff

to the United states,

and therefore

subnit cus aflidavit to be

used in lieu of a passiort in ordor to proceed to the United

States.

Suoscribed and sworn to before ne tlis

• 195₴

<Birnarl. Buke

20the day uf November

Vice Consul of the United

fates vineerien.

Dascription:

Complexion

Fas

latin- - Brown

arko scar on right shoulder -

Service Ho.

To be usat In connectier

with appaication for & visa.

---

## Page 7

AXERIO N' SL-3ASSY

HºD:1% CUE*

NDASNANOEL IVISA

Herimmprin 2 -1 33n 3:2

mursusa. 21 0f: 44.?

irura and

421:87. 1

w 1/47.i4t

+101201553

IsTesd 09 -

Vaid dtir:"

HOY I9

195

UNLIM!1ED.4192)'5

for zimission i! 'Inl is States ports

of eniry.

Seal

U. S. ÖLF: GF UUST-CE

ADAITTED

NOV & 5 1953

NEN NOSM. N.Y.

INMIG. & NATZ. SERVICE

Corsul.

inogii?!

i,l

dogr! ...

-=3

8: "r.i

---

