# 104-10176-10016

## Page 1

104-10176-10016

26 October 1966p

EXORANCUZ

TO:

Mr. kullam K. Harvey

Chief, Fl/ Divinion Do

¿rom: Anita Potocki

JAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

De Not Reproduce

Subject: NSA Idlephone Request circa Z8 Septamber 1960 to Office of Security.

reiayed to El/Livision I. regaiding Loosible Accesa to the Recordinga

Aldeded to Have Been Lade al the Speech at the Latia Amerlean Youth

CERbresa on 4 August 1960 1a Havana by Bernon Ferguson MITCHELL.

Reference: CS-3/450, 465, disseminated on 21 September 1960-

lo Feferenced renort, baned on HZP-3852 dated 29 ingust 1960. was

disseminatod on 21 September 1960 a8 C:- 3/450, 465 to varions U.S. Agencies.

Including NSA. Sepsrately iller to Hanna od the Panama Station prepared

« dispatch forwarded as HLTA-10437 under date of 14 September 1960, referencing

above report and calling attention to the fact tas MITCHiLi, had been reported

present at the LAYG lee'ing according to diaseminated raport. HZPA-16437

was routed to various WH Livision Lents, none of which broache the contents

to the attention of appropriate VH Liviion officials who might have been expected

lo have had sume knonledge of or responsibility for follow-up or such information.

and latter disparch, therefore did not reach this office until 7 vetober 1960,

through she good offices of hir.

C1/Up8/4H- Atro

san the

incividual nio nosed on tae cover inest lal if Livision, when checked sy phone,

had advised thai no attempt had been vade to follow ap this lead or to determine

who in the Agency might have responsiblity for reporting such information directly

to NSA of other U.S. Goverument agencles.

3o 'Ca or about 28 September 1960, MI. J. Do Noell of O/5/SRS received

a telephone call from NSA alicials, calling his attendon to the exiatence of a

repOrt CS- 3/450, 465 of 21 septenber 1960, which indicated lhat CIA hud either

lund an observer or had contact with someone who had attended la LAYG, which

Individual had reported per refermace that sernon &. MlICH:IL had made a

speech in llavana on & Auguar 1960 wilch speech "had been recorded"• Ergo..

NSA was most ardons to obtain either the originals or a copy of the "taped"

or "record" mentioned la the report, la order that persons famillar with MItcheLl

and his minnes of speaking mizht listen to same to check the identlication

made in referenced report. HiI. Noell relayed this request to te writer immediate

ly upon receipe, whereupon wilhis the space of two jays or no, the wrltor la tura

checked with the Ollice of Chief, HH/ uperallons, dir. do istorline, who la tura

referred la writer to the Panamanian Dent. 'ilnr a succession ol referrals,

the writer ended up ralking a li a youny laay lu janama Reporta secton, whose arme

---

## Page 2

= 2v

unfortunately escape me at this time. Notes made at the dime of this

conversation save either been mislaid or temporarily lost, and therefore

are not avallable for referral at this vriting. Aíter several minutea of discassion

back and forth with reference to the report itself, attempts to licate enct passage,

etc, the writer finally arrived at a point were the request for access to tbe

"recording" mentioned by NSA officials could be relayed to the Fanama Dek

officer. Reaction received amounted to a re-interpolation of what Para 3, 1, Of

Referenced Report actually said, was intended to say, elc., how the information

was prokably obtained, and finally a virtual refutztion of the statement inat the

"speech was recorded" an reported in cissemination. I was thereupon advised

gratuitously that "! & recording actually was made, undoubtedly this was under-

taken by the Cuban authorities thenselves as the hosts for the meeting..... and

therefore would be in Havana in the hands of the Cosiro authorities, and not in

the possession of CLA either in the field or al Headguarters." A few more rounde

of made

ooo +995+69-1995 -41+986- 522-121=51865=2=

that above statement was mere assumption on her part, obvioudly was not ased

on any factual informadon she had dirst-hand or had ceveloped through research

into other pape=s available on this conierence, wherefore CLA could not relay

such a reply to NSA.

Additional argument ensued, ard the Panama Deak officer

recollected that "someone eise recently mentioned tapes brought up either from

Cuba or Panama which someone had been looking for, out in a different connection. •"

She was thereupon requested by the writer to chech into such separate inguiry,

ald advise the writer of the results: Another telephone call within about 24 hours

resuited in agreemeni by Fanama Reporis Section either to initiate necessary feid

pouch therselves, or else to lake up with the appropriate Operationa Dest Officer

the initiation of a formal inquiry to Panama Station, by pouch, the entire matter

of existence of a tape or record-platter of the speech reported in reference.

avallability of such "recording" st'or to the Station or the Agent who had brought

in the original report, and request that if available, such

recording be forwarded

to Headquarters soonest.

I was under the impresdos s. the time that the party

with whom I had talked had accepted this request as olicial, and that I had received

« firm commitment that appropriate correspondence would be initiated to cover

thia point, allowing for "crash priorities" which might develop unexpecgaly so

that a reply could be expected by late October or eazly November. I reiterated

Insistance by this office that without regard to any knowledge possessed by Hga.

Demi. Officers of the circumstances of the reported LAYE meeting, at least a

pro-forma wiltten query to the field vas required on basis of the NSA requert

that they be allowed lo listed to the reported "recording". in order that a factuni

annwer could be given their inquiry and the dinseminated report be claritied in

event the wording uned the rein had led to erroneous conclusiona on part of tie

rocipient.

3. At the dime of these discussiona the writer gained the Impression that

a relatively lage amount of confusion reigned in the Cuban and Paramanian Deake

of WH Division, based upon cranh-priorities resuldng from the U.N. meeting .

In New York, MT. Castro'e antica in New Yort, absence of various sespoible

---

## Page 3

desis officers on other business, wherefore there might be some delay in getting

the actual pouch written and out to the neid. Mention also vas made of a large

amoont of material recentiy sent back to Headquarters from the field in connection

with the LAYC and from the Panama Station, which would also have to be checked

prior to preparation dl the outgoing dispatch, elt. however, the writer val assared

that we would be kept advised a the progress made and spechically would be

incediately alerted, wben field reply on this point was received.

4 Above information was relayed to sir. Noell upon completion d these

arrangements, and be in tarn advised NSA that we were checking with our field

representatives in an effort to locate the actual recordings, lape or platter as the

case might be, to which they desired access.

5. As of this morring writer was advised by sir. Noell that NSA bad

again inquired of him last weet, and again this weex the status of our efforts la

locate the requested recording of the MITCHELL speech on & jagust 1966, as thay

still' jesired to listen to the voice to verify the identification of the speaker as

actually lbe former NSA employee, Bernon f• MITCHELL, as reported in relerence.

The writer thereupon retraced the ertire performance, as related in paras 2 and 3,

only to discover anew that no-one had the faintest inkling.of what I was talking about.

nor could anyone recolleet that any request bad been made by this afice or the

writes with seference to CS-3/450, 465, para. 3,1. After initially calling Adr.

ESTERLINE's secretary on this problers, the writer was referred by ber

so bit. Phillipo, uho apparently is head of the Fanama Desk. Alter & "jolly"

chat well into the subject, li=. Phillips, sho had listened politely for a brief time.

asked whether the writer realised tai he knew nothing about the icie attair, au

that be was primarily responsible for PP activities. He suggested I Call & AT.

Jon sixt. 1011, who suggested that I might have been talking at sime

Jgot down to specifica righ

away. After obtuining the necessary coples of both the disseminated re pors and the

HSPA-10437 dispatch referencing same.

he agreed that there was some urgency is

getting a definitive report from the field as to whether or not a "recording" had

been made of the speech itnell, who made it. who held it, and hether or not the

origiond or a copy thereof could be obtained on a priority basis by Havan Station

and forwarded to Headquartera for the purposes requented by NSA. He thereupon

suggested that he could send out a routine cable to the field, text as ubich be

virtoally read to me over the phone, and anted whether in the interests of expediding

• name I could coordinate it for FI/D by phone in draft-lorm, which I did.

He was adviied that the indicater "ZAGRACE" abould be included in the heading.

and me shall therefore receive a copy oi the cable wben it in finally sent out ne

amm Cir, sben avalabie.

restonably impressed by the urgency of getting a straigär-for ward answer aíter

pouch unnecesary delay, and the spot we were not la vis-a-via NSA's ortgiaal

requess di over a conth ago, I am certain that we mall not set any run around from

3900

---

## Page 4

6.

Ss. Noell was advised by phone this morning of the intest developments.

MI. Noell adriaed thal since the most recent query on thie mtter came ¿romo

Jerry Brantow, Leputy 1o di Groms, he was of the bp-son that this was merely

a fobbw-up of some loose-ends concerning which sor.cone on General Carroll's

staff may have made loquiry to brastow, in conneciion with the Carroll laventiga

tion of this case. General Carroll's stail, apparently, keep digging up such little

anficished pleces a buniness, and reminding va:ions people at lisa, probably

On s"'tickler ayorem basis" that such and such a lead bas not been checked out la

its entirety, and that status d such requests should be checked. Air. Noell advised

that in light of his original report to NiA tial ClA was norking on atteraßta to lscare

the "recording»" elther in the field or at headquarters, he would make no further

froto the field.

%. So far the ritualion seems to be under control once again. It is most

mortunate that such unnecessary delay in complying with the original requess

mas caused by a rariety of factors which in distilled fashion can be termed

"'lach of cooperation" by HH/Parama Lent officers with whore the original

request was discused. " is also unfortunate that from the outset, namely

reccipt of HZI-3652, this estire matter has been given obviousiy reutine

treatment by people uno eimer inch ine inlinlive to chech on van right here

responsibility witha ChA for lollow-up ol this sype aí case, or to were not

sufficiently "as courant' with the overt news to recognize the name Bernon

F. dischell. I am not certain lhas you wish to take this master any furtber.

unless chere ere reasons e which I an, unaware. May own lapression la that

perhapa the best thing rould be to let she whole matter drop for the moment.

at least until such time as we can again raise it, any by seat Tuesday or so.

In event we do not have a reply to direl

cable by that date.

Original & cc: MI. Harvey for ZRGRACE File

Ce: 201-282337 (Mitchell 2Cl)

= CC: C15, SRS, ME. J D. Noell

---

