# 104-10256-10077

## Page 1

104-10256-10077.

27 May

1970

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston WerBell

1. Subject is a 52-year-old, native-born American who served

on military assignment with the Office of Strategic Services from

approximately July to December of 1945 with primary service in the

China-Burma-India theatre. Following his military /OSS service,

Subject entered into a variety of short-term business activities, most

of which were characterized by his unorthodox business practices.

There is no indication that he has ever been employed by the Agency.

2. There is considerable evidence in Subject's file that he was

looked upon with strong suspicion by several Government agencies,

including the Bureau of Customs and the Federal Bureau of Investigation

for alleged arms smuggling in a number of South American countries,

as well as his apparent involvement with several revolutionary groups

and Castro assassination schemes. Office of Security records disclose

that Subject is generally categorized as a con man, unscrupulous, a

wheeler-dealer and a promoter of grandiose schemes.

3. In July 1959 Subject apparently volunteered his services to

the Western Hemisphere Division and was seriously considered for..

use as an informant on revolutionary activities in Cuba and the

Dominican Republic. During the period that Subject's Operational

Approval was being processed, he volunteered several pieces of

information, all of which were judged to have little value. In

October 1959, WH Division decided to drop all operational interest

in the Subject since they became convinced that his real aim in working

for CIA was to use Agency funds to promote his personal interests.

---

## Page 2

14-000đ

4. In February 1967 the Domestic Contact Service advised that

Subject frequently volunteered information to their Miami Office and

was going to be asked to respond to certain OSI requirements pertaining

to the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and other selected areas. However,

it is not known that Subject was approached in this regard, and the DCS

was provided with information relating to his dubious character.

5. In August 1967 Subject came to Agency attention when he

attempted to interest a group of military officers in a weapon silencer

he had supposedly developed for the M-16 rifle. One of these officers

was actually a representative of ISD servicing under cover who

reported that Subject had no reservations about imposing himself on

anyone in order to achieve his aims.

6. Subject was mentioned extensively in an article on independent

arms dealers appearing in the January 1968 issue of True magazine,

and he reportedly made statements that the CIA and the DIA would

protect him in case he got into difficulty. Based on Subject's statements,

the Munitions Control Board asked the Agency whether we had any

interest in him. The case was summarized for the benefit of the

Deputy Director for Support on ll January 1968, and the reply to the

Munitions Control Board was provided by the Office of Logistics.

7. Office of Security records reflect that a Department of

Defense representative reviewed Subject's security file in March 1968,

at which time we continued to receive reports that Subject was

representing himself as a CIA employee. In May 1969 information

was received from an Air Force OSI representative in Miami, Florida,

that Subject was undergoing a security clearance check as a result of

his being employed by a company with a Government contract. At

about the same time Saigon Station requested a Headquarters "bona

and he advised OSI that he was affiliated with CIA.

informed of Subject's background as an unscrupulous con-man.

8. On 26 May 1969|

generated a cable with

extensive distribution in the Far East outlining Subject's activities

---

## Page 3

14.0000Đ

-

that teRed capacity as Chiel of CIA In Thailand, It waa mentioned

had been plagued for some weeks by Subject, Vice

President and Director Research and Development for Sionics, Atlanta,

Georgia.

Subject reportedly describes himself as a counter-insurgency

expert, has a variety of weapons to display and claims to be a retired

Colonel. He normally implies United States Government connections

and he presents a demonstration of a variety of exotic weapons that

never fails to impress.

Reportedly Subject had visited Vietnam in

order to provide General Abrams with such a demonstration of weapons,

and it was stated that he planned on setting up a sniper training program.

9. The Washington Post of 3 December 1969 contains an extensive

article on Subject, who was under Federal investigation for receiving

guns shipped from Vietnam through Eglin Air Force Base in Florida.

The article mentions that two years previously Subject was indicted

on charges of violating a Federal law forbidding the preparation of a

military expedition against a friendly nation from American territory.

10. The Washington Post of 22 February 1970 containe an article

which indicated that Lt. Colonel PaulA. Mariott of Eglin Air Force

Base was cleared of any illegal actions in connection with the shipment

of captured weapons from Vietnam. The Subject is quoted as having

said that his firm, Sionics, Inc., had arranged for the shipment to

the United States through Eglin Air Force Base, supposed for Air

Force use in museums.

11. The Washington Evening Star of 26 February 1970 contains a

story dealing with the charges that the Columbia Broadcasting System

had contributed $80, 000 to a 1966 plot to invade Haiti. Subject was

identified as one of the "leading figures" in the deal, and he was

described as a munitions dealer linked to clandestine operations in

Latin America. He reportedly was hired by CBS as a consultant for

the invasion story, receiving $1, 500. 00 as a down payment.

12. True magazine of April 1970 contains an article by Andrew.

St. George entitled, "The Mafia vs the CIA", which alleges to be

the story of the struggle of two invisible governments for the control

of Haiti. Subject is mentioned in the article as a "munitions merchant"

who cooperated with the investigation being conducted by the magazine.

---

## Page 4

MEI

SUBJECT

"Aide at Weapons Lab-

Cleared in AF Probe

# 95+1-865-78-22-70

Air force officials said yes- the guns stayed at the Air

terday that they have cleared Force base.

a lleutenant colonel at Eglin

Reports of the air force in-

Air Force Base In Florida.of

vestigation

surfaced last No:

"any illegal or unauthorized

vember

actions" in connection with

along with

charges

that the weapons were intend.

shipments to the base of weap-ed for distribution to militant

ons captured in Vietnam.

right-wing groups. In his state

The announcement was made

ment vesterday. Col. Martin

in a terse statement by Col. said

that

"no evidence had

Abner B. Martin, commanderibeen developed at that point

of the secret armament lab

¡(in November) to substantiate

oratory at Eglin.

the published allegations." He

He made no mention p the did not say what the evidence

reported role of an Atlantaldeveloped since then sug-

firm, Sionics Inc., whoe offi-

cials said they arranged the gested.

shipments.

The firm's vice

president,

Mitchell L. WerBell III, said

in December that he had the

guns "shipped back

to this

country, to present to the: Airi

Force for use in museums. as:

a presentation from Slonics.".

WerBell said he made the

arrangements while working

with the Air Force in evaluat-

ing Sionics' new gun-silencing

equipment in South Vietnam.

"Air Force spokesmen in Wash-

ington, however, said the Air

Force

had no interest in si.

lencers, and Defense Depart-

ment officials said Sionics has

never had any contract. with

the Air Force.

In his announcement; Col.

are to con as

OFFICE AND !

• ORN

7. 62 |954

Hon.

'Col. Martin said simply that,

he ordered an investigation

last July when the arms, in

cluding Russian-designed AK

13 submachine guns,

"arrived

at Eglin without apparent evi-

dence that applicable import

rules and

regulations had

been complied with."

After: a check by the Air

Force Office of Special Inves

tigations which "centered" on

Mariott,

the lieutenant: colo.

nel's "activities in the incident

were found clear of any illegal

or unauthorized actions on his

part,

and no disciplinary.or

administrative actions have

been or will be taken."

Martin said "the weapons at

Elgin" would be used for

*evaluation, experiment and

display purposes in the arma-

ment laborator " He made no

mention of any that Sionics

may have gotten. WerBell has

indicatella that only some of

SIGNATURE

GROUP I

(40)

---

## Page 5

14-00000

737360

WASH. Post

3 Dec 1969

Gun Shipment Figures

Played Dramatic Roles

By Bruce Galphin

the attorney general" (Ramsey, an official for an American de-

Washington Post Staff Writer

Clark). The federal attorney, velopment corporation

ATLANTA, Dec. 2 The two

William A. Meadows Jr., said

At one point during the

top officials of an Atlanta firm

he could not make any further fighting, he said a few days

comment on why the charge afterward, he and some 200

under investigation for receiv-

was being dropped.

other Americans were "lined

Ing guns shipped from Viet-

"WerBell commented wryly

up against a wall" by armed

nam through Eglin Air Force

that he was unhappy because

revolutionaries at a Santo

Base in Florida are no strang: "T've lost my one claim to no Domingo hotel.

ers to controversy or dramatic

,toriety."

He said the rebels were

At the time of the indict. looking for Cuban nationalists,

situations.

ment, WerBell was quoted by and that he managed to slip

• One was actively involved in

the Atlanta Constitution as ad-

inside the hotel, where Ameri-

plans to set up an anti-Castro!

mitting an "extremely combat-

can embassy officials negoti

base in Haiti, and both were

ant role". in the anti-Castro ated safe conduct. 'He was'

in the Dominican Republic

base plans.

evacuated by helicopter to a

The federal indictment had

during the 1965 American i-

U.S. warship.

alleged a conspiracy to ship

tervention to put down a rev-

"The Communist movement

guns and munitions from At-

olution.

lanta and New York to Miami

has actually defeated itself"

by forcing the United States

Mitchell Livingston WerBell

But WerBell told a reporter

«to adopt such a firm policy,"

TIl, vice president of Sionies,

at the time of the indictment

he commented at the time.

an Atlanta weapons research

that he had withdrawn his

Both the Dominican fighting

support from the Haitian base

and manufacturing firm, was

plan when it appeared to be

and

the - Marathon raid-oci

curred before

• WerBell and

indicted 272

years ago on

headed toward direct military

Brown founded Sionics

charges of violating a federal

l action.

An Air Force officer at

law forbidding preparation of

•*I! I'm called upon again to

a military expedition against a

fight Communists in the west-

Eglin is under investigatior

ern hemisphere, I'll do it," he

for his role in three shipments

friendly nation from American

said. "Anything I've done has

of small arms from Vietnam.

WerBell denied reports that

territory.

served the best interest of the

The indictment against Wer- United States."

the weapons were intended

Bell and six others was made

"T've been involved in anti. for

right-wing

anti-Negro

after customs agents raided an

communist activities a long eles Wean, he bad el

time," he sald. "I've helped

island camp near Marathon,

the

Dominican government captured weapons sant;to At

Fla, where they seized a small fight the Communints."

lanta win Enth or Lahoretary

arsenal of weapons and found Alded Newsman

75 battle clad exiles and Amer

'In the Dominican action two

icans.

years

before,

WerBell

Not on Island

credited

with

WerBell himself was not o

out of a bullet-riddled car ir

the island at the time of the

Santo Domingo. The newsman,

raid.

Miami Herald

Only

four

weeks after Doug Kennedy, had been acci-

WerBell was accused, the US. dentally wounded by U.S. Ma-

atten

in Miami

annivnced tine gunfire.

president of

the

in the D

mi

the time, as

---

