# 104-10142-10040

## Page 1

104-10142-10040

SEGMET

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Tuesday - 15 March 1977

5-29

H.S C

Sir: 77-002614

Page 8

29. (Unclassified - PG) ADMINISTRATIVE DELIVERIES After

consultation with Messrs. Cary and Miller, I delivered the most recent

batch of FOIA material bearing on the Kennedy assassination to the staff

of the House Solect Committee on Assassinations. I was accompanied by

Mr. Carpeftier of the Liaison Start, Me Weband A. Sprague, Chief

Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, was not available,

and I spoke with several staff members including Mr. Stephen J. Fallis,

Deputy Chief Counsel, and Mi. Alvin B, Lewis, Jr., Special Counsel.

(See Memo for the Record. )

30. (Unclassified - RJK). LIAISON Received a call from

DI. Calhoun Cohen, Senate Democratic Policy Committee staff, who

requested a copy of the Agency publication entitled "USSR: Hard Currency

Trade and Payments, 1977-78. " Since he wished to have it this afternoon,

arrangements were made for a couriei to deliver it to his Russell Senate

Office Building address.

31. (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Mr. E.H. Knoche, DDCI, hosted

a breakfast for Freshmen House Democrats. The following members attended:

Representatives Ronnic G. Flippo (D., Ala.); Harold L. Volkmer (D., Mo.);

Peter H, Kostniaver (D., Pa.); Albert Gore, Jr. (D., Tenn. ) and Ike Skelron

(D., Mo.). Following the breakfast, the group, except Representative Flippo,

was given a tour of the Agency Operations Center:

32. (Internal Use Only - RJK), LIAISON At his request, picked up

from Charles Snodgrass, House Appropriations Committee staff, 15 copies

of "Intelligence Community Staff FY 1977 Supplemental Budget and FY 1978

Budget"' and also transcripts of Mi. E.H. Knoche's, Acting Director,

appearance before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense

3 February 1977 and Mi. William E. Colby's, Director, appearance before

the Subcommittce.on Dciense on 21 February 1975. The budget books vere

turned over to Bill Kvetkas, Jr., Director, Office of Program and Developmoul,

IC Staff, and the transcripts returned to the OLC files subject to call by

the House Appropriations Committee. Snodgrass said that he had a safe

drawer full of sensitive classified waste, and I told him I would come by

shorily to pick it up and bring it to the Agency to be debtroyed.

(nis

GPORGE L. CARD

Legislative Counsel

DDGI

Ex.

Ser:

Mi. Lepham

SA/00/0 Comptroller

DoSeT Mr. Falkiewica Islalf NIO

---

