# 104-10054-10285

## Page 1

104-10054-10285]

SECRET SENSITIVE

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1.

Coverage:

From the time the Mexico Station was opened in April 1947 until

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in 1955, the Station had

developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK)

phone taps, three photographic sites,

mail intercept operation.

Telephone

who was handled by a Station case officer. The number

REPRODUCTIONS PRO

Let of multiline

Yance team and a

were placed by

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post

nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer.

: assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station

on the best

types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These

operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC

and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-

bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northystolagger of the

DET/RENSITIE

E2, IMPDET

CL BY 004645

3921

7

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET SENSITI

• Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental

basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED

the block south. It had a planted vie

Embassy. LICALLA, the thire

row of four houses

went gate of the Soviet

site, was located in one of a

side of the Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked

the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from

the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-

veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

0040159

8

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team

could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of

interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a

ntercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by al

lease officer.

obtained selected letters

from a subagent

employeibby

Coverage:

coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

at that time. The Mexican Direction

the

nature of the

of Federal Security (DFS),

was a hip-

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were wiet telet, and corrupt.

3

SEGRET/SENSITIVE

0610160

9

---

## Page 4

14-00000

LIENVOY,

The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by

In 1961

the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening.

post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

In mid-1962,

post for the telephone numbers of

bassies

Jacuban and Satellite Em-

The Station immediately

soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet Tines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav

line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of

conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume

for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

4

SEGRET/SENSITIVE

0C. 0151

10

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET /SENSITIVE

ir a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location

for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-

tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations

usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

station started screening all photographs. Hawever fel, there

was a backlog because the photographs were pi

ee times a week

but those picked up were usually

few days before since the

technician who was proce

i, did so on a night-time basis.

Further, photographs w

iot made initially until a complete roll of

film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to

photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents

were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated

equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-

ficulties.

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet line... It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

0060162

5

SECRET SENSITIVE

---

## Page 6

14-00000

< SECRET SENSITIVE

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.

There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the

photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in

either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

0060163

SECRET SENSITNE

12

---

