# 104-10186-10128

## Page 1

104-10186-10128

UNPORMATION REPORT

INT ORNATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUVICT MOISeN CARTAYA Moltalvo

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

* Do Nal Reproduce

REPONT NO,

DATE DISTA

NO

REFERENCES

Cs. CI-316/01215-66

16 September 1964

DATE OF 1950.

PLACE

washington,

DATE ACO: Septemt.

D.

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 13 UMEN

A formor Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1961.

Headguarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

Information from the records of this Agency.

1 ond our case Agony.

and includes supplemental

it.ls requested that the addressees take no action on any of

..the individuals mentioned

in the personality reports without firs

checking with this Agency.

Sourco met MoisestCARTAYA Moltalvo in the Department ol

Investigationa of the Police in 1959.

le does not know where

CARTAYA could be

at the present time

but assumes that he is not

In Cuba.

• 2.

Sourco said CARTAYA was borh about 1934,0F 1935, weighe

150 pounds has & medium build, and is a Negro.

Headquarters. Comments

3IP4

2.

epartment and members of the police who were to attend

the courses:

Included on the list of students was Moises

A. CARTAYA Montalvo.

In & report dated 3 May 1961, a fairly rellable source

identifiod Moises CARTAYA Montalve as a member of the

Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical

Department of Investigations - DTI) of the Cuban National

Revolutionary Police®

STATE

I DIA

ARMY.

REP

_CINCLANT

, Nasa, fiold dininbution indicetod by " #".)

I NAVY

CINCSO A

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

TAIR

INSA

J&NS.

OCa

1 FBI. 2

INFORMATIO

N

REPORT

INIFORMATION REPORT

131/SA/EO31 WE/5/R

DE/SA/MOUL NE/MADR

framed

CI/LIA

21

CI/R&A

AEL/SAR 1

IN SA/CI 4

RID/AN

ICIHAVE I1

TOTAL NH/SAY (1), NE 1 (2), CI 4,

TIE

M0i = 1686

iO PROJECT (AMMUG/1

:SCI-316/01215-64

RID I

LIAISON: #

2011000709957

тач та 1

OBSOLITE PRIVINE e9pre

3

---

