# 104-10167-10434

## Page 1

104-10167-10434

sit inte

Dộ/017.1001

Tires 0000-77

11 NOV 8977

MEMORANIUM FOR: Office of the legislative Criel. i

VIA:

SA/ADIO

FROM:

Raymond A.

Karren

Chief, Latin America Division

SURJECT:

Allegation by i Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning

the

Role of Cuban

Exiles

in

the Assassination of President Kennedy

REFERENCE:

LA/C0/258-77 Dated 3 November 1977

1.

Reference is made to the referent monerandum which

imported a statement made by a senior Cuban diplomat abroad

alleging that "Cuban

exiles such as DIA? Lan (Inul (sic)

and others had heen involred in the assassination of

Fresident John F. Kennedy."

re have received nothing

further to date to supplerent this information.

DDO records indicate that Pedro DIAZ Lina,

and

his brother Narcos DIAI Lanz. formerly Chief and Deputy

Chief,

respectirely, of the Cuban Revolutionary Air farce,

entered the U.S. from Cuba as eriles in mid-1959.

Since

that time both

DIAZ Lan: brothers

reportedly hare been

Closely associated with,

and intelved in numerous activities

with,

Frank STURGIS (aka FiORIX1)

of Watergate fame.

though the individual allegedly involved in the assassinas

tion of Fresident Kennedy could he either of the DiAZ Lanz

brothers, it is noted that the name. Pedro -DIAZ lanz had

been cited in

recent newspaper itens in this connection.

Be refer specifically to

the New lori Daily News article

of 20 Sertenber 1077 entitled "Er Spr Says She Urove to

Dallas With Oswald & Kennedy "Assassin Squad'." a copy

of which is attached.

The Agency assisted in the evacua-

•tion

of Marcos fron Cuba to Miani. and l'edro entered the

U.S.

on bis own.

Although both vere debriefed by the

Agency.

there is no indication that they were exer con-

sidered Arencr assets.

signed

Regaond A.. Ferrea

Raymond A. Harren

? 'Attachmemt:

Newspaper Article

Ce: IG Serff

201-259/20

+11 5910986

---

## Page 2

SUBJECT: Allegation by a Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning the Role. of Cuban Exiles

in

the Assassination of President Kennedy

DDO/LN/CO/C.Hcpkins:gm 10 Norenher 1977 x1191

Distribution:

Orig

&1.

Addressee

SA/ADDO

IG Staff

C/I.AD

LA/CO

(Originator)

(LA/CO/Memo: Chrono)

(201-25912014

(201-259716)

BASED ON:

22950 (IN 416072), 28 September 1977

29 September 1977

DIRECTOR 103951,IN 121984), 1 October 19777

00

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 3

TEx Say Says She Dross

To Dallas With Ossaid 8/

Remedy 'Asassin Squas"

" Gy PAUL 'lESKil.

sara that she arcerataniel Lee F~*^§

assassin suuad to D-las a fen jars bafore Present Kes:

murdered there Jor: 22, 196%. Tre Moise Asiassir:

Cormintes

investigate her story

•"Marjon Jocerz. ferat

cadercoa

a operate ter the

and Fol, tol

The leas 1c-! ze

car I:1

from fisci to

OI-

onld. Cla crairze

Cuban exite lide:

And

brota-

Pedro DiE= 1223

Cr 510329: n:2.3sh

?-She sa

•3-5

Operation l.

eaters di

gicuP

of Figs inva-:

I. sion

_Staterase's she

tride 83 Tr:

Nels

and-to-agered agents tient

Ratert

chief couri

Assessinalisa

Bites emers.

le has t

signed one

3 bis top jai: rigators

Interies.

escribed Creating of

an asia-tination sazu.i

assisting:

absut.

• American sarigors.

elsitr.ed

group consentel lo

But cot at do no

FideL Cars and.

whom it blamed for:

183507..

alérrited Tal

Estures availe

ago Boat t

Lion 10. "There a

tion

so had it d

said.

"I'm not say

Jut) ther sond

: Excert for Us

525

- it

murderine Kernesy.

men

198 al

by

at's

del

Latent

wall.

8106.9

site

house" in slimi

204?

Én the siga:er 08

said she sis el 5!

Has and ho sipli

ied:

ol sty.".

-che

gild

Oswald

Operation i trainiaz

free. such

bich

meeting is t

38

Beast.

58 36

LONE

L30e58

Forrera Clai

005909

aTri

titles.

EPORTE, BREWEREN

• irit pie

thougbt

•1ag

NICS

f98

---

## Page 4

cors s00n alier the misere the? 1:16

turns driiiot, ste said!

anile trip

care tire

1.3

0-

look chan!

added ti:::

failian?

aftes and see cute,

She

? 1

When they reached lori:g,

they all

rhecked

she sail,

into

Ф3°:l.

tI:e

Cabans drin': cant a sonage: the jols,

119: Lorera continued.

Do Minii the rext day."

"an I llen back.

"Ard

tig days later-g

53g So' a

Flane to Rew York sober. the

capilst

angourt; that residen: i canedy lied

teen shot in Dallas." she caii.

Informed other clor. Sturgis told

The News jerierday:

the

best

tay knowledge. I cever cost Cawald."

Ile. säid te has Incan

Diaz. Lanz for

Besch

ats'i

liere she (*°: HOTEr-)

Junt jears and "I be-

et.my

house che live

rare lean

Fret they ser:

there." Stargis also said be bad been in

•Dallas cutral tines lufire the

nation, kut he irsisted

there alone ind tas not were

the time Keri

-áni

22, he said,

Sailed. Or

my family

•I nast ac in Miami rita

ind I taiched the

Fholc

already

Senate

siou: ine arsassiaatica ta

ale Intellige: ce Committee.

2.2' Sea.

House

Assessinatic.: Cocimitlee and by ferner

Vice

President

Sielsea

Erceleller's

cutamissier that incestigated the Cla.

"I told them all that I kid codhing

leo do with seen oy to kill: ensar:

=5.!

I volubiére" on sale lie-lelee

tuitie-g

tal river the ceO

tibal there tras

the

irenedy 2:1 14.

¡sercoss" silet rind it.

an:

cer.-

Sturgis

regoti:-it

Loser: 1oa the

recruile

CiA En 1559 &1ie

ToIs Litian will Costro in Hava z,

l'er fied fuss

retained

secret missien..

The first was *3

papera from Castone suite la t

a piis:r.

in djor of co:

295

initiatesa

---

