# 104-10179-10051

## Page 1

104-10179-10051

000

DATE

6 DEC 50.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

GOLD

ACTION, E/RELL 13 6606. HANNINS, M DUV, ARTIFIED SPEC.!

INFO : DO/P, COP, ADDP/A, CATH 3, S/C 2

Squeenat

ROUTING

3

DEC 6 0225Z. 60

PRIORITY

Yellow filed mRP

IN 12499

PRITY DIR INFO HAVA CITE GOLS 2126

MNET

RE. DIR 14151(047 98043) *

1. AMBANGI COUTACTED ADEC BY WISSINGER WHO PRISESO HIM AS 3

DEC AMPITY DISCUSSIONS WITH ANCHIRP-I ID DESIRE SET AMPITH ONE PRONO

SOOVEST.

2. BANGI REITERATOD MIS WILLINONTSG WORK WITH WIESINGE? SO?USS

BOARD ON MUTUBE ACTIVITIES. THEN RESISIEN PAST FXPERIEVOES DEALING WITE

BENDER AND JIA SMITH OE "HUBAZE" AND EARRISSEO HOPE MIESINSEE MOULS

CARPY OUT HIS ROLE ASSISTING BANG-I DOJAVIZE AMPITH. (THERE NO IMPLI-

CATION OF TIE IN OF WIESINGER WITH KHAR'S OR WITH RENDEUST STIN) - RETURNTO CIA

3. WIESINGER BROUGHT UP BAUS-I DESIRE TALK WITH OLIS! AND ADVISED Background Use Onty

HE OLIEV DESIGNEE FOR PURPOSE TALK RECIESTED. BANGI SAID WOULD

• Do Not Reproduce

GLADLY DISCUSS HIS PROBLEMS AND STATED:

À. PRIOR BANG-I ARRIVAL PIPRITE ME HAD DISCUSSION WITH SLICI

AND NAVA AMBASSADOR RE AIMS MRP AND 1Z> NEED OF ODYOTE SODORT E15RY

OUT OBJECTIVES. ALTHO HE RECRIVED NO SPECIFIC COMMITMINTS RE SORT

SINCE IN MIS BELIEF AIMS MRP COPATI LE DUERALL DOYOTE IV.S72ST3 5939.

DISCUSSIONS GAVE BANGE MORALE LIFT ATH BRIGHT OUTLOOK TO AR?

ACCOMPLISHING GOAL YRP. IN BANG- I SUPPORT TOILO SO SORT SCING

SECRETL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITSO.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

an enlach taste denire

_CLASSIFISO MIESAGE

SECRET

IN

GOLD 2026

12499

GIGS ME ARRIVED PAPRITE AND NESESSARY DONTIST ESTA3LE9453.

PAGE

HE FELT BENDER TRYING SELL FOOT OOH TO GIO,000 TO LATER NEW

YOTE METING ATTEMPT MANE TWO MIY PAY ENT, QUE DIPSCT TO 2ANS-I,

REMAINDER THRU FRD. BANG-1 STATED WE SUSED ACCEPT SSMATUDER AUDINT

VIA FOD CHANNELS. ADDED ME HAS NO AXE SAIID PERSOPALLY RE FON

SIT IN HIS OPINION FRD APPROACH TO CURAL CUBAN PROPLE SYLY

TIPORARY SOLUTION AND WILL NOT PROVID: COLID FUTURE GOUT 504

PEOPLE OF CUBA. BRYG-I SAID CITRO DA MEALL SHOULD COME FUM. WITTE

A'D BE CAUSED BY CUBAN PEOPLE. BANG 3:00511250 FACT GOYOHE SUED ET

VERY MUCH NEEDED BUT ODYOKE MINO SHOULD TE I! BAOUGROUND AND NOT 47

NN CASE FRD MOTIVATING FORCE MICY COCO! KHONEDEE CURIO BANG-I

SAID FRD COULD NOT REYOVE CASTR: WITH THEIR PRESSUT GOBROICH TO THE

PRORLEM. BANS-I SAID HE NOT IN POPPITE TO FIONT WITH ERD BENDER

OR KUSARK.

HOWEVER DID NOT PLAY WORE FURTHER WITH BEUDEZE.

C. BANG-I MENTIONED FAILIPE I:L' OF PINES DOS US DAID MIS

CIVION JIM SMITH'S 30SS BENDE? DID HOT WANT GMITH FORGARO PAPER WITH

XEY TO OPS TO HAVA AS REQUESTED BY MINI-I BECAUSE THIS 479 OP (SE:

COLD 1855 AND UFGA 498).

BINS-I MENTIOUSO THAT HIS KEY WAS IN TIS

OPERATION MAD BEEN TRANSFERDED FROM ICLE O5 PINES. LO

04

DO BANG-1 STILL REQUESTED MESTING WITH OLIEN AT HIS COVVEVISVOE

REVIEW ABOVE AND ASK OLIN SUGSESTIJNE RE COURSE BANG-I SHOULD TAF

BE REQUESTING POPRIME AID FROM GROUP OTHER THAN BENDE?.

SO DIESINGER OPINION ABOVE FRETTE: ¡NO NO ADVERSE EFFECIS. RELIT-

IOUSHIS WITH BANG-I.

(END OF. NESSAGE)

C/S CONMENT: "RE CONTACT WITH BENDER GROUP.

SEREST

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUINS OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

