# 104-10166-10249

## Page 1

104-10166-10249

10

DISPATCH

Cisal, KID

MATSED ROR DORRIES

NO NETING BOURG

16-8

BOm

Onsel of Station,

Wat Goorgo De Moranschllat

АСТОТ ПОМЕЕВ - ВЕРЕН

MACHOPLI

1o One of the suojectle which the uriter would llle to discuss briefly

during his TDY at Headquarters 18 George DE MORENSCHILDI. The uncersigned

sould appreciate some advanos inquiries at Headquarters pior to discusaions.

on 15 Marche

2o No are interested la knoring the degree of CI a CI Interest in

Since the writer knows DE MOMENSCHILDT fairly vell, the urderaigned

could readily entor into a closer social relatlosship shich would bo cortainly.

Elms consuming and would be in line of duty and not by the vriter's cholce.

We would aldo ills to inow the estant of U.S. agencies' dendro to

mondtor his communications.: Should we open iny of his mail in addition to

him correspondence with. the two individualn eited in DIH 02820? what should

we do with his Incoming commercial cables? In case we learn that DE

MORENSCHILDT in about to make or receive an overseas telephon onll, does

Headquartere wish un to send an INNEDIATE cable to alert U.3. agancies to

Intercopt the call?

9. The definition of Hoadquarters Intereat 1n D

portant for Station planning.

We do not want to mate

targeta not of primary intereste

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduca

IPH O. BENSON:

REQUESTS INSTRUCTIONS

HOMITORING MAIL: IF MAIL

TO BE OPENED? DEFINITION

INTEREST DURIN

TroY 3/63.

(*DISCUSSED 17/5765,27.

NOTED CUI DISPATCH.

@cross

CB01% BEFERENCE TO

AS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

1533 GASMATION

SECRET

201-725439

LATE

26 Teb 1965

MGA PILE NAMBER

201-725439

---

