# 104-10221-10022

## Page 1

104-10221-10022

SECRET

112. 24.00

Chief, Momal Somerity Divloson, 0s

Irector, Dazoatle Contact Bervi

26 Hurch 190

HEY, Hutcholl Livingaton, IT - Revocation of DOD Becurity

$27636:

Clearanco/Reoont Contect

The lutomation roported in the encloned polloplomator

snoresus, pyarding Subject's colf-laltiated contace vich our

Mons viald orrier, my ba ca triterest.

20 Cho Oreleo Of the General Counsel ond 197 Plyleton have

bean appriocd of cubjeet a recons activities.

uncied to

Any questiona partaining to this amorantes should be

Bre: 1033.

SES

$ 10997! 1, 0 data.5

---

## Page 2

V. Thome

N1X- 056-71

10 Karch 2971

ATTN

Directors Monoutle Contact Service

* John connell

Julin Groany (OCC):

Chiot, Miant Flold Office

Dilano, dories aron aubject, who la on old end whens ory contries of tiles

On 2 Nor 7u we received a lond distance coll, presurably frou Fonder

office dating fron 1059. Verbell has boon involved in a vortety of scrajes,

tho Intest of which concerned on abortive invocion of latti which John Creany

won vory ruch concerned about a scar or go 039.10

Herbell otated that tho Dopartcent of Defense had Just revocod hio

socurtty clourance on proundo of herbell'e trivoloud bélavior" in the Hurtlan

Verbell stuted thnt he intended to "rtalit it to the Saprore Court",

lio liod olays kept us kind other clerento of the US CevernCht Intor:©© con

corming coveloprenth in the laftian natteri

verbolt soked to there was mything that re could do for him in tho

way of interceiling for lift with the DoD, and he Infored him bluntly and in

no uncertato terra that ha was strictly on his om, and no could do nothing

for litti

He then noked if It would bo portialisto to cubpoena birt Gonenley.

ke intoned hin that it woo up to his attorney to tulo auch accocromuttong.

Herbell secred to get the cessage, and then offered to leep us auvised

regarding an alieged fortheortag attort on lasts chitch to being sensored by

Nolande Merferror, even though Nasterror do currently incarcerated in a federal

so idld sorbell that it he wichod to unos any intonation alone c

Would eccept it but under no circustinces chosld le attenut lo elleit uny

iron pite or our belate, de barted that to the Dictate on thra laus cel

Guld he siunt be in touch with is agali.

In vicy of terbell'a record to folt that thin latest contact whould

Do o eatter of record and that coo should be inconco of developuents.

010/653

SECRET

41.15

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

F 12-72-00

ales, resonal sent sirate, do

2a H 1960

(lot be a Coat) Bartoo

mart, Bitchell Lo

$81606

- Let at at to pa Man one for

min -084-69

The enclosed copy of remorandia Pras our Went Offles,

futuro reference:

Any ensatións sertetalia to the mort

lan nhoula ba

X4: 2133

SECURITY

inclesural he stated shove

4.i1?

tiger tra chao

SECEST

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES GONERSMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

Director, Domestic Contact Service

FROM : Chief, Miant Field Orfice

BUjReT: Local Ost Inguiry Recarding Information on Mitchell

L. Verbell

DATE: 15 May 1069

MDM - 084-69

On 15 May 1969, Specinl Agent Dave Ploumen, Local OST representatlve,

USAP, Volted the Miami Field Office to soltolt any information wo might a

have regarding Mitchell L. Worboll who apparently lu undergotng a accurity

clearance check as the revult of presently being caployed by a company

with a covernment contract.

Werbell uns an unsolicited contact of thie office beginning in

959 and he reached pork notortety In November 1907 doä result of hu

Involvement In the Rolaido Masterrer trial 1

ection with the abortly

'Hustlan Invadion. John Greuncy, oso was

int the time to overuco

Agency Interents:

Ploimen In contauting. ochor.us Go

eatingmoles locally

including tie us Astorieyle offtee sonchor.

Ived an Indication that CIA

hal information on Herbell; thus Plounon's vis

to, the stant meld orrice.

4.

It was

Indicated to Plounon, who is inca personal ty ax severni

members of this

stait, that we knew of Herbell and thirt on puéapion he

Tuls in for background and lu being forwarded at

i/. 4'1

SECRET

---

## Page 5

td-innod

EKP.

SECRET

calos, ment piera orrio

Direstor, Demotto Content Sorrico (artoca Divieton)

: 101-086-69

22 May 1969

sat you sor the infonation repoited la the reforont. 7y

suntion sade by your oftleo that oft direct tua ragust through

appletal socority clamats to entrety commet. In the fita,

rosovos, 1t iii lo balanil sod iprociated 12 you vill forn

consaparence port

atalm, to security nottere directig to tho

Becurity lantar Disleer, nither the to Eupport Statl.. Tela

meros tiss su pechino she lucorasion en the eporoprinto cherunai

tor ang ocelon chat này bo trateniod.

SEENET

Letterlai mag 8d

---

## Page 6

112-9900

CONFIDENTIAL

(PAre 8011Pe 100"

INTEROFFICE MEMORANOUM

DATE 5 July 196%

TO

Director, Domestle Contact Service

SURJECT: HERBEd, Matchell Livingeton tiT

FILE NO:

#27686

119909

Reference ts onde to your request for security checks on the subject

person

a source öf Intelligence information.

The 13 to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with

the following

resulto:

c.

No additional information has been obtained, except for such

blogruphle Information as indicated belov or in the attachmont.

Information has been received that Subject was inventipated with

favorablo renulta in

Certain Information her been recetved and appearo in the attach-

ment which: your Division will wioh to consider in determining

the extent and level of your use up subject.

3.

Tt in to be noted

that our checks were made on the bands of the Identllying,

Information you furnished or ln en stlachment to this nemorandon.

Should

It be dis.

closed that this Information is erconcous or that Subject In known by a different

name, this Diviaion should be notified immedintely.

Ch!/

ronnel Sacuris Dirtalon

Attnchment:

State Passport Report

Summary

RESTRICTED

EYES ONLY

4227.

4.45

1124a

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

26 April 1967

On 39 Aprtl 196% tho current paseport file of Mitohall lo vErBELL

wan rontound de the Pansport Office, Departmentol Btate.

The collaring

1o a surarry of the infamation contained thereini

Brths

C March 1928 at hiladelphia, Connoylvania:

(Verifies by birth certificnto)

At Went, Morida, on 29 May 3962, Parerort. Huntor

0-302133, 80r a tup veck trip to England and Gerry

for the purpose of busineuu.

Basidence:: TD 1l,: Powdor Opringn, Georgla

occupatlon: Public Rolations and Advertining

Brecutivo.

unpro file alin revosis sint the lederl Durenu of Investiga-

then has informition pertatning to suBec concerning his trolvement

123/70

CONFIDENTIAL

1.45

---

## Page 8

DATE 31 July 1957

3 Director, Dreptic Contect Serviee

(Servicon Divisior.)

security Creck Complotion - US Clitzen

(n) Des a 10-30, dated 1 July 1965

(.)

Mist dis a natsco be decurtly check creplecion on the lodividual

ing IS auproved Suclect'e exploitatton an a couca of latell

so yotr glocretion.

An Lidicated ln the actacuient the 0s providos a Surary of deroetori

!: redlot for you in coustier in deterlatas the level a ciaoulrica arceloure.

Te 63 directe lust the field chief, after reading the Intormacion,

lico. 10 so notablich the lovi of clanolfial aloctoure, if cig, at io

niride cilence 1o the Contact Speciellat in hla mlationo with tür noice:

i tan, at hin anurelios alsclose the acure af the deragatory intormarlor

in Codies Gy4102166.

he told caled, after noxia: on appropriat?

::alon ali the

Up:: 11305 01 the collee diud repact to the decially crAtes

tar airtdunk, will chau either danurgy tho tracriction er place tre i

#dot davologe watch

i field Carice.

will curry the envant:

801 ay 4 4221

159*

"Restricted" No Classified Info

to be revealed. Check with Mr. Glelchauf before

contacting.

GROUP I

Decluded fras quEdatic

declossi rication

4.45

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

€ 12.78-00

Onser, Pereonnel security Divlaten, 08

21 February 1961

WADE, Mitchell Do -

A: 127900

Recent Teleptione Call from Chat CRAY

Loa Angales ro Fossile Massolnatio

in US ct Close Relative of Wadle Bast

Raler

Tos enelosed cory of telotype from our Mant Mold 0fP1ce

lo parverded for your aromatica and imediate tranantial to th

I or thia openco, bad dracuness tata

mattor with Mir. Com Papich, FBE,

no seid tha far will contact suo

joet and CrAz, ond vtll cabacquently advine us of any netion the

might want ue to take.

Any questiona pertainins to tata secordadua shenza to?

alrected to

1- 2798.

Encloture:

Falotypo Contacts/iHan1-1710

dated 20 Febrary 1967

pat

4.44.

---

## Page 10

6857

CC- FBI Via OS

SECRETI

SECRET 201530Z CITE CONTACIS/MIAMI 1710

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

ATTN:

file

FeB: 20 Il 50 AM: 67

FROM:

TO. WE HAVE RECEIVED A MOST UNUSUAL PHOT

NE CALE FROM MITCHELL

WERBELL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, DETAILS OF WHICH FOLLOWS,

2.

VERBELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WHO HAS BEEN KN

OCCASIONAL CONTACI WITH THIS OFFICE, OF HIS OWN VOLITION, SINCE 1959.

WHILE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, MUCH OF THE INFORMATION HE HAS

FURNISHED HAS PROVED TRUE. NE FURNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS ON THE

RECENT HAITIAN INVASION PLAN. THE PHONE CALL WAS RECEIVED BY BART

GONZALES FRON HIM AT 1108 CURS ON 18 FEBRUARY. HE STATED THAT HE HAD

JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL FROM CHET GRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO ADDRESS

(PHONE 274-4922).

3• GRAY STATED THAT HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE

POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION IN THE U.S. OF A CLOSE RELATIVE, POSSIBLY

A BROTHER OR SON, OF A MIDDLE-EAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT IO DAYS.

HE DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR BY WHOM

HE WAS APPROACHED. GRAY TOLD WERBELL THAT HE DID NOT WANT

TO GET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL

4.44

---

## Page 11

SECTORY

PAGE 2 CONTACIS/MIAMI 1710 SECRET.

REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED WERBELL FOR ADVICE. WER

BELL ADVISED GRAY

TO INFORM THE FBI IN LOS ANGELES, BUT GRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.

WERBELL THEN ASKED GRAY IF HE WOULD BE, VILLING TO TALK WITH A

MEMBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGRESD.

VERBELL TOLD GRAY THAT IF A

REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACTED HIM, WERBELL'S NAME WOULD BE

USED AS ENTREE.

THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS,

BUT I DID MEET A CHET GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S

HOUSE IN 1962, SOME DETAILS OF WMICH ARE CONTAINED IN OOA(S)5601

AND OOARS) 5598 DATED 18 DEC G2. GRAY IS A NOTORIOUS HOODLUM

AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE BEEN APPFOACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSK:

5A. PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SES SIT.

sEcRET Sum Papich says

CANSP

Endedia tea nicant:

daw 2859.9128/844

FBI WIT

Te therbe

os/a3915.21:103

9nL.

aliy

LeT us To Tale

---

## Page 12

13- 79-00

cujor,

surtty Divtalen, 0s

Diroc

(chier,

VerustA, biecholl be

A127900

Ô Con taét, Dorv1co

Di vlalon F

Interost

REV: 31 DCS Conoraden dated el Fobniary 1967, daso mubjoce

8h Fabruary 395T

Mang tormrd o com bf tro cacleeed dels

nary Its iCo Kro Gem Pantchon bro Popten vao Trưc

ent Ler Dyl nene on 23 Fobruary 1967

directod to

Se usy ricotiens boriatiion to tita,

Xeentory

sor chta

nara choula to

Baelesure: As atatod abor

Ces Vo. Scm Fapica

3

VThorne: fat

---

## Page 13

DIE, 23 February 19GT

sincer, litchall Horsell/cat Gray

called to so cleo forbail had head soen Gray Dom

onu the any borore caresslas voicerp ove: cho fast daas do Ca

lin concorin, tho pilesca comicatton cotone crotus a rocke

to to sio

coverson of Califordo, 23 ibaraso Mula incoration mi passed to ses Zogien

by phone.

60!

chief, lind Offyce

SECURITY

4:43

---

## Page 14

84 FER 1967

VERBELL,

-CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

Mitchell

DATE AND

127800

DIATA, CITIRENOMI

(Corant,

D, DATE AND PLACE OF 9!

Слел 48.261

- 8 Verch 1918-Philadolpsia, Pa.

CITIZENANIP

Vale

Present

Ponder Springa, Georela

Prement

PALET MANI

wender Of Organizosk

Communi on

Lo Corfas

alexis, Inc.

Chel Rood iP Goorgta, Inc.

Werbell-South, Inc.

Fender Springs, Georgie

Ariants, Georgia

Atlanto, Georgis

etlanles, Georgia

FISH

HAME.0P

CaGAiR du MAJO»

1O. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFOT

1201

( COM0420

INCEGOING PULL MABE CITIZENSTIE

CITA CH

PARENTA AND CHILDREN

87 FEE 10O

4.4.2

C1C09T090

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECTET

A^12=79-00

VITCHEL LO WERFELE

Reader Sprines, Chorrta

BUSINESSE

---

## Page 16

Fr«S=0427/72/

10

MEMORA DUM BORI

ATTH TION

PROME

singuers

REPERiRONE

Chieft rpL Groun

chicf, Operations croup

Rouent tor lecurts search ' (e)

c: 21.

06c 99-0609 10099 20 coptenher 1970

nuover, this sorride la savated tho fortorino

information concorning

21

i.

michett Lxnasaca-22021

Apendy sar

dioe

in film.

during doria

11:68

chis

ininroge

a commissioned atticer with

the oss

the china-dura indi

---

## Page 17

14-00000

theater: Ta hugust of 1959;

GERAFLE

this agency.considered. using

source pt information on revolutionary

activities in the Caribbean ares pirticularly Cube, but

terminated lia constderacion

of his possible üse in

october 1959 wien ve was determined chae his information

was of little value and it was suspected that he would

use

the proposed comoction with this Agency to promote

his porsonol interests.

(S)

2) 1n

the Unfted

1073 wetballwas under irvestigation by

States

Treasury Departmone Bureau of Alechol,

Tobacco ind

firearns

and by the taited seaces customs

Service

for activitres::

relatin to rossifle percenary

naivitres on:

Anaco to land to tre Honomas.

In this

connection, werner,

during 1074

Coracted three retired old cuployers

in

attampt to involve them in a scheme

concerning

actuales of an prognization salled the

Friends. of Maco

(Fon) which adycented the socestion of

che istand tron the commonwealth of the rihanas.

AlI

thres

individuals

reported their conteer sith meanett. ond

sought quidande

from

tris

Hay it. dont oft

1971 they sure

evised to break

'all

thos

On 27 June 1974 the

Federal, Bureak of

investigition was

formally apprised

Warshto's overtures" te the three

retired cli

trployees.

(5)

3.

It..

har

HERBELL VI

p76-0029.

VERBENI.

that

seen

thie

determined that Mitcholl Civingston

subjent

I request

nuaker

indication mut ditclelt Livingston

evor been the subject of aa 2014 coatest

listed i: retrence

nave ever been the subject of an ford or me sergest.

00/X1R.0lless/

Jran:6347 114800701

BA57D

ON:

201-256010

Pilt;

iN:

20l-250010

Pistribution:

0111

" Addressee wraf.

• portiR v/rel.

1

•NG/EIR Chron

I!T

---

## Page 18

OCC 79-08601

20 September, 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR Associate Deputy Direcion for Administration

Atine Chief, security Analyals Group, OS

Associate Deputy Director for selence s

Technolouy

Associate Deputy Director for Operations

AtEn:: ISA/DIP/AP/FIS

Thru:

C/Reference Branch/ISS/1pc

FROM:

ohn k. Greancy

General Counsel

SUBJECT:

Request for Rocurds Scarch

Robert John Morgan, st al.

1 ..

The Department of Justice is currently changer

in an

investigation with stote and federal las enforcement

agencica concerning importation and distribution of mari-

juana and cochine.

Attached 16

a copy of the 2e2arooepr's

verit reston by

bis or the

Sergeeta

investiga son.

?.

In order lo xespond to thé Departmont's roguest,

it would be appreciated it your offices could determine

there are any

the subjects

listed in the

attached

from the dustice Department.

i. cruincy

Attachment

---

## Page 19

INTO INTES OPENINESO ORDESTE

08.00

WLM: mas

Organized Crine Strike Force

Richard 3. Russell Fedrral Bidg.

Post Office 80x 543

Atlanta, Georgia

30303

September 177 1979:

John k. creanora

Associate General Councel

Cineral

intelligente Agency

sashington, D.C.

20505

Dear Mr. Greancy:

Il was a plossure to meet with you and Clyde Carter

last

Monday:

AS

inän

explained

to you at that tine, we are cogaged.

investigation with state and oderal lv

enforcetent

ayencies concerning importation and distribution of mari-

juana

irid

cocaim.

Dirino the course of this investigation.

allegations

(unfounded,

I am

sure) have been nade that

certain of the

subjects of this

investigation are employag

ot

the Contral

intelligence igoroy.

I believe it is nocessary to resolve as much in

advance'of an

indictment any problons which may

arise

should.any

the

nojects of the investigation be involved

with the central Intelligence agency:

The following individuals are mong the subjects

this

invescigation:

fabers cohn.

Hergon

-John Doncan

1016010/2-000:316/36

12257

900:

11/72723

John sakreater Caressie

hales tilnore.

S1M5.

Tan'

7175718

3423/35

Micials

== 093472 8218

Sa Baral Puca..

_0O0: 11/1/05

13/42-01

i-di

---

## Page 20

Ms. Greandy

Soptember 17, 1979

Paque adviseras soon as possible it indictment or

continuod investigation of these individunls will create

problons for the Contral Intelligenco Agency.

Sincerely.

illias..

W111lam 1. McCulloy

Spectal Attorney

U. S: Dept. of Justice

CC :

Robert L. Kouche

Deputy

Asst.

Attorney General

Clininal Division

Cerato

T.

McGuire

Deputy

entat

Organized Crime & Racioteering Section

Criminal Division

---

## Page 21

"CONFIDENTIAL"

FBI reports extracted from Herbell file (DCD/s

O rer report dated 6 August 1974 from Washington, FBi 111e

(CI-3) 62-108665• SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III,

INTERVAL SECRUITY - ABACO, NEUTRALITY MATTERS - ABACO.

OrBi report dated 22 July 1974 from Atlanta, Georgia, no

Bureau file, Subjects

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, I11.

---

## Page 22

DCD - 11-2/78

31 January 1978

MEMORASDUS FOR: DA0/1SS/IP/RiS

FROM

Ruith

riliff

DCD/FIO/PAO

SUBJECT

House Solcet Committee on Assassinations

(SCA): Request (Ole 77-5635/1)

REFERENCE

Your Memorandum, Some Subject, 28 December 1977

1.

In response to referenced requost, I am forwarding

the following material from DCD files:

Carswell

momorandum which may

relate

to the individual you requested.

•b.

Louis losada - negative.

Cesario

Diosada - copies of all material in

DCD

files.

d.

F.

3.

h.

Mitchell livingston Herbell,

Ill -- file

A-12-29.09.s on lon and should be returned

containing all DCP matcrial.

This file

to DCA

as

soon as possible.

PLEASE LAND CARRY

David Atlec Phillips -- negative.

Lucien Conein . one document.

(This document

was diso

furnished in response to Concin's

request IP 27-09051 under the Privacy Act.)

willian Stuckey a negative.

Id Butter

- copies of all macerial in Do"

files.

E2 INDEE CL BY 336090

---

## Page 23

SUBJECT: 10050

Sclcet

Request

COLC

:DCU-112/38

31 January 1978

Connierce on Assassinations (ISCA

78. 5685713

Priscilla" Johnson MoNitian Den response to

her request (P. 76-18611 under the Privacy Act

Fill cext and sanitized copies of all this

Also

attached are four intelligence information

reports which

sere not furnished in response

to the PA request:

j.

Richard Snyder

one mcmorandun which may:

relate to the individual in whom you are

interested.

k. Alexis Davison -- negative.

2.

I have made no attenpt to sanitize this material.

I understand

that lsca state members who will be examining

these documents arc fully cleared, and vill not be allowed

to remove any of this material from our lcadquarters, make

nny coples of this material, or make any notes therefrom

that would reveal

any matrial that is properly classried

and

deals, with intelligence sources and methods.

A11

of the

attached material is for your jotention except file A-12-70-00.

3.

Please direce further inquiries about this matter

to the undersigned an extension 3101.

Tuch Elliff

Ruth Ellitt

Atrachments a/s

RELLIFF: NEC

Distribution

Orig 9.1 -

iddressee, s/atts

1

-C/oca

1

0/atts

C/seate

1o/afts

3

REITISS

11

Confro!

2

---

## Page 24

manticeden

resitate for techie

• who stered in Pressin

Best is sunset feet sen

3136092

377 Out

816 1

180/069

CONFIDENTIAL D920UOZ SEP TO STAFF

CITE DOD/MIAMI 15595

TO: PRIORITY DED/NEADQUARTERS.

de

TOS OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (SPILMAND FROM HENNESSEY

WHINTEL

SUBJS FIELO OFFICE ASSISTANGE TO DOC

RES: SPILTAN WINWARING TELECON, & SEPTENDER 1975, SAME SUÜUCS

IN RESPONSE TO A

TELEPHONE CALL. FROM OSPUTY CHIEF.

23 AUGUST 1975, WE MADE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA,

NOR WALTER LLOYD, OGC, FOR THE NINT OF 20 GUSUSTA

• THA MOM FIELD

OFFICE WAS HELD OPEN

THAT EVSNING FOR A MESTINO ATTENDED BY MR. LLOYD,

SAMUEL SHENES, US DEPARTMONT OF JUSTICE AND SELLING WARNER, US DRUG

ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION.

JACK HENNESSEY, DOO/MIAMI, ALSO ATTENDEN

ANO PROVIDED A SHORT GENERAL BRIEFINS ON DOD OPERATIONS. FOR THE MORI

PARI, THE MEETING CORSISTED OF A DISCUSSION OF

THE PAST RELATICUCHID

OF MITCHELL L. WERSELL III WIIN BANERALD,

ESPOCIALLY WITH DED AS

REVEALEO

TNE DOD MEMORANDUM TO COC DATED & MARCH 1975°

2.

3'!

WE WERE ADVISED BY TELEPHONE DURITS THE 7VEDING OF 27 A1G15T

DUTY OFFICER,

THAT

LLOYS

AND SEOSESHEYELY SY WALTER LLOYD,

ECULD VISIT MIAMI AGAIN ON 30 ALUUNT IN COYNECTION ALTA

IHE

WORSELL CASE.

LLOYD DID NOT TASK OCOCEANT IN ANY WAY. DUEZAA

THIS

KOVEVER, ME DID CHECK LE WITH LE LOCALLY SY TELEPHONE

EPON ARRIVAL IN THE MIANT AREA.

HO CALLED LO AGAIN DURIND THE EVENEIG

OF SI ABUST AFTER HIS RETURN FLIGHT TO SASHENGTON, D.C., A5 A

COURTESY SINCE KE DID NOT HAVE THE TIME TO CONTACT US PRIOR TO HIS

DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI®

3.

R. LIOYD AGAIN RETURNED TO MIAMI, TIES TIME 0050020 $ 1995

JE: STAR AIRCRIFE, EARLY

ON THE

MORMING 3Ã E 68P00 1922.

HE CONTANTED

US THAT AFTERNOON

AT TOLERNONE TO REALICT MAT GE GEO OPEN ME 7159

OFFICE SO THAT HE COULO DEPOSIT CLASSIFIO CIRRE LA OUR GAULT OVER-

NIGHT®

HE APOLARSO AT THE FIELO OFFROE AO LIST YOURS AND YOAEEC5

---

## Page 25

PAGE 2 DOD/MIAMI I3506 CONFIDENTIAL

US ON HIS TRAVEL OF THE DAY.

HE PLACED TWO. FOLDERS OF CLASSIFISD

MATERIAL IN OUR VAULT FOR THE NIGHT, AND RECLAIMED THEM ON THE

FOLLOWING MORNING, 3 SEPTEMBER MIN ADDITION TO MAKING WORKING SPACE

AVATLABLE TO LLOYD: FOR A COUPLE OF HOURS DURING IHE MORNING OF 3

SEPTEMBER,

HE MADE CURSELVES AVAILABLE FOR ANY FURTHER ASSISTANCE

THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN REQUIRED THAT DAY

HOWEVER, NOTHING FURTHER

WAS PEGUESTEO OF US.

THE LOCAL OS OFFICE PROVIDED AM ESCORT FOR

LLOYD'S RETURN COMMERCIAL FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON LATER THAI AFTERNOON

LLOYD ADVISED US IN THE MEANTIME, HOWEVER, THAI THE LOCAL JUDGE

HANDLING THE WERBELL CASE ASKED FOR LLOYD TO APPEAR IN MIAMI AGAIY

DURING THE FOLLOWING WEEK, WHICH APPARENTLY BECAME UNNECESSARY SINCE

WERBELL AND HIS CO-DEFENDANTS WERE ACQUITTEO OF ALL CHARGES BY. THE:

JURY ON 3 SEPTEMBER.

4.

AFTER RECEIVING TWO. OR THREE FELEPHONS CALLS FROM MR. SHORES,

DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE, MIAMI, ON 25 AUGUST,

DURING WKICH HE ASXED

FOR BKHERALD INFORMATION HELD IN BENERALD RENDQUARTERS FILES, US

SUGGESTED THAT HE CALL LLOYD DIRECILY AT MIG OGC OFFICE.

WS BELIEVE

THAT THE ATTEMPIED USE OF COO/MIAMI AS A CHANNEL BY SHERES STEMNED

FROM THE SEEMINS (TO HIM) EXPEDIENT NATURE OF SCH AN ARRAVGEMENT AS

MUCH AS FRON

A BASIC MISUNDERSTANDING OR BKHERALD'S CHAIN OF CONNAND

AND INFORMATION FLOW STRÜCTURE.

NEVERTHELESS, NO SUSSTANTIAL

DIFFICULTIES DEVELOPED DURING THE VISITS TO DOD/MIAMI 3Y LLOYD.

E2 INPDET

CL "3Y

011668

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 26

MEMORANDUM FOR: MP. HatEs C

Attached is all the material DED has on

Werbel. He has been the subject of several

•communtcattons between DCD's F10/PIC staff

and OGC and the FiO staff in the DDO.

Also attached is the microftim records on

an a Arnold A. Bayard. I don't think he

is the Colonel Bayard referred to in the

memo, but it is hard to tell since se don't

have any blo data on him.

4.51

(DATE)

To1 wic

---

## Page 27

OCC 16-0844

24 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG

Chief, DCD

Chief, LA Division

SUBJECT

Mitchell Livingston Werbel W

1. 1 was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that

Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on 29 March

In Mlamt, Florida: The charges relate to importing and distributing

quantitles of marijuana. With Werbel's propenstly to raise his pant

affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate problems during this trial.

An additional problem Is presented because Werbel is defended by Edwin

Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk In the B-26 case in

Buffalo, New York In 1966.

It was Edwin Marger io subpoenaed the CIA

General Counsel as a defense witnesn.

2 .

The Justice Department has recelved information that a person:

either currently or formerly affillated with the ClA han been participating

in Werbel's meetings with his attorney, I would be appreciated if all-

addressces could review their holdings on Werbel and determine if there

is any calidity to any recent contacts with him. I would urge that instruc-

tions be sent to Miami that no, repeat no, contact with Wechel lare place

between now and the beginning of the trial.

3.

It would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary

of the arious contacts Norbel has had with ClA In the past. Please check

to ace ll you have any information un a Colonel Bayard who was killed in

Atlanta, Georgia during the suminer of 1975. Dayard, reportedly an

assoclale of Werbel's, had previous contacts with the Agency:

it would

Los appreciated lí your responses could be received by clode of bustness

2. March.

1.8.54g

---

## Page 28

1022 Tag

ACOLO N. BAYATO

1e roM rano

In Tork Cali, Mane Tort.

B:319895,

Subsent la president sturi

3007715 N. Lo Bogarl Corpany, In'es

Tang ! ?

4.54

---

## Page 29

CREP IDENTIAL

(te in

F 92744

Si OCT 1961

TD:.

Chie?, Coreace Dielaio 00

mi Ne Suoter 8068

Perser, Mragenal securter Divietoo, Ol

442944

Sp, nodai

15219

perion in di telential source de latoulleuce laforalia

ter dne torre

recults

=:cm: 27940151

5u59er%.

1? 13

tote nused dal dir ruerre vere sul po le pista en que gentile

lola Distico suole se copre teatini.

-57;01

9 925 90

exis

La 1693: 116

4,54

---

## Page 30

124tig

o que care)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BAIA

92744

PUCC DADE DE SACNTE DATE ANO DRACE DO BORRE CONSE

20 Tang 2535

Solo, 9. 3.

29

e a and se

5.2. Derra inautar,

5ns.

Catiar and dides 20541

92/49

CET:

Banana

scoester

130 ideia fogeneria

---

## Page 31

Canteri

CONFIDENTIAL

J Harch 1976

NEMOBAND% FIR: Chleti Haahdorton

inder,

Mant

SUBJECI

:tlechall livingaton Certall 18f

1.:

Tha arreened senorane was proparad for Jolin decaney, 0ue,

são requanted a aumary of our records on lecholli. Nerbell Ill

carbell do to ba criol da farch s97s in fioriva on a cunscu of legorelan

marcelles.

Con antielrucas cat tarall voy clate soce asency conaectlon

biconso do haa cosa so in dle puse.

Creansy also nokad about 100 comar

¿lonu vich colonal Angara who 1n canalonud in paragraph e of che netechod

Scorandus.

8.

coo hes ente: that chere be ba costact stel Vastall ai lanar

until che crisi de rivar.

involira in serenia altà shiel tre aroney zainot altero do le lacreirien,

luiss co agenui late lascale che io'a lofmcclas arabot contact vici

Alä:

chiel, Demarie Colloctlen Siviston

attachment:

11/5

#lorribitlon:

washingten

= MIGza1

:2

1 - 1/887

12 ПРОСТ СЕР: 034352

4.5.3

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 32

COMFIDENTIAL

2/206

2 March 1976

PICORANUUI FORS OLfICe Ol Coneral Cousual

AITUATION

3 John le Croandy

VIA

1 Depusy Directos for Operätions

SUBJPCT

REFERENCE

& Mitchull livlogaton Horbell IlI

' OGC 76-0344 dated 24 lubruary 1276

1'..

A revlow of DeD recordo insteaten that lutchull l Verball ILl

van an occunional contact and sourco of thia Dlution fron 24 July 1259,

when he Etroc iniciated the contact, until karch lullie It appeare from

our recordo that all of the contacts were ar verball's volition and

was he viened ao a particularly moful or roliable source.

Herbell di! provide indolleleed Inforeation which on toported by lCD to

seven Loreden Intelligenco Interiatlor regorts.

To January 1970 bCD

Icspondei con Frcelon of Information livuiry fron Unchell.

Copios of

the docusents colonsad to hio ora available fron che noo/pIc.

After misting ulch Verbell at his oun raguage in duly 1059 the

Chial of the Maal Mall Offico noted In a incorandon for the Eccord

that Iltzla eralence contd he placed in anything Verball nata. mirtne

succueding contacto barbell provided information wilch seaulted in the

• folloung reporta

=, Photographs of Camarloca Harbor, Cuba (1965)

b. Dope and crma ruining, joalnican Repubtle (1965)

Planned coup in Custamla (1966)

•do l'olfelcal, acononte, military ultuatios in

Donlalcan Papublie (1900)

e. Plannel invasion of latel (1966)

f. Planned Invasion of laits (1966)

8. Vonezuolan enquest for aries (1967)

E2 TPOES CL BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

11.3-3

---

## Page 33

•3*

10-09.00

FEB 27 1047 JN*76

CONFIDENTIAL Z714SAZ FEB 16 STAFF.

CITE DODA

113234.

TOB PRIORITY DED/I

MAIBAR INO FION ZEINER

412-09-00

SUBUEGIS ALICIELL LO VERDELL, 1SE

HAS MIAMI FIELO OFFICE

YEAR?

CONTACT? DO

ANY COUTACT HITH HERDELL DUCTUO

IPPDET CL BY 230552

---

## Page 34

14-00000

Ten 2: : 112 1075

CONFIDENTIAL ATIADOZ FEB IS STAFF

CIlE DODAL

13130

TO:

PRIORITY BODI

ATTA!

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF CZEIMERD

SUR,J:

MITCHELL LO WENDELLA TIE

REF : DOD/

13834.

WE HAVE HAD NO RECENT

THE LAST CONTACT BY THIS

CONTACT WHATSOEVER WITH MITCHELL VERBELL, ILI.

OFFICE

WAS A TELEPHONE CALL RECEIVED BY

JON 9 MARCH

1971 AND DISCUSSED IN MIM-956*71

22- IMPDET-OL BY 011566

COMFIDENT

4:52

---

## Page 35

12-09-00

FiB 25

3 3 RA '75

C0 N

FID:

WTIAL 2620062 FED 76 STAFF

CITE DODA

13915

TOR PRIORITY OOD/

FROM ZEIAER

12.09.00

SLAVECTS MITCHELL LA WERBELL TrI

JUDICTED AND

JUSTICE DEPARTPCHT HAS ADVISED GOG THAT SUBJECT HAS AGEM

TRIAL WILL BEGIN

01. 29 MARCH 1076. THERE

MisT

-ab

NO REPEAT NO DOD CONTACT WITN WERDELL EVEN IF NE SHOULD ATTEMPT

TO INITIATE THE CONTACT. EZ IMPOET CLOY 838594

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 36

CONTIBENTIAL

23 January 1976

MENDRANDUM FOR: DDO/PIC

ATTENTION

: lial Mattor

SUBJELT.

810-023 - MItcholl Livingston HerBell, lil

DCD records refloct that Subjoct has been in contact

the Agency since 1959.

The last record of contact with

Subject was in March 1971.

The documents in DCD's file which pertain to Subject

fit into the folloving categories:

cIA office of Securicy nanechock data

(OS. File Number

27086)

One blographle data sheet is attached for

release to

Subject provided those portions

marked with brackets are doluted fron tho

reloased version.

C.

d.

Eightcon internal documonts are actachod and

nuy be releasud to suuject provided those

portions narked with brackets are deleted

fron the rcloased vorsions. Deletions aro

basod

on exceptions" (5) (1) (0)

(3) (1) (a),

0) 09 (9 00) (1) (9) and (k) (4).

Artached are two newspaper articlos which

pertain so subject and which nay be rolessed

DC. also has & document which reflects that

Subject provided OcD with so black and white

photograpis

taken of the Camarioca liarbor

aros ol cuba.

DCD has neithor the originals

nor covies

of these photographs although they

Ray be retricrable. from NPiC.

should Subject

request that these photographs be returned to

his, we would asko overy effort to surface them.

& & IMPDET CL BY - 010650

4,51

---

## Page 37

COMFIDENTIAL

SUJECT: P 76-023 - Mitchell Livingston VerSell, Ill

i.

A copy of this documont is altached and day

bo released to Subject provided those portions

marked with brackets aro dolated fron che

roleased version.

DCD also has two fR Division cables which

pertain to Sublect.:, One is from FR/Atlanta

(00349) to Diroctor, datod 11 July 1974.:

The other Is to PR/New York (670514) from

NE/ARM/I, dated 17 March 1975.

One FBI report. (C1-3) 62-108665

DATE:"

6. Augüst 1974

TO:

Director, CIA

FROM:

Director,

FBI

Washington, U.C.

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Worbell, IlI

DCy has reference

to d report on the Dominicon

Republic which Subject provided DC! in soptember

1950.

however. coug not hive a copy of this

document.

Jobs notation in our fira Illicates tha

the document was sent to CCI/Wl/Dominican Desk.

DC records do not refloct the exact title.

only

that di 1s a roport on the Dominican Republic.

Six internal DCD documents which may not be

released to Subjoot.

Copies are ntrachod for

your information.

Denlal 1s basod on exonptions

(1) (1) (0). 65) (1) (d) and (s) (1).

DCD sugkusts that in ansvering subject's request

ho be informed that Agency rocords indleato that

he millingly provided informacion thee resulted

in sovon

foreign intelligence

information roports.

Four of these reports recoivod advance tolotybe

dissonination.

Ne suggest that Subjoet bo informos

that, the Agency is reluctant

to declassify and

celease the eleven documenes via the ball as such

an action would

put then in the public domain.

Should Subject insist on secing the documents,

Dcu will considor santtizing and showing then

to hia in tho presence of an Agoney: representative.

DCD also has one nocoranuun for the record which

concerng

an. 0GC traco on Subject's

sons,

dated

16 Aprld 1975.

A copy of this document is attaches

1, 5%

---

## Page 38

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

P.76-028 • Mitchell Livingston NerBell, Ill

for your inforcation.

In light of paragraph ono

0f OGC 75-4582, dated 10 Docombor 1975, can we

assume that this do not a record?

DCD suggests that a statement chanking Subjoct

for his

cooporation bo incluled in the Agency's response

to his roquost.

JACASONER. HORTON

Chief, Domoseie Collection Division

Attachnonts:

As stated

Distribution:

Ords. d1.

Addressee

Control

DCD/Privacy

- OC/DCD)

ro.

and, 55:

---

## Page 39

26(00 172

20 FEB. 1067

CENURAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOORAPHIC DATA

RUbJECT LAST NAME - FIRSY NAME - MIDDLE NAME

VERBELL, Nigchell L.

do.

PULL NAME OF BA

2 132900

*DATE AND PACKUOIIM

162223

8 March 1918-Piifaielchto, Pa.

A оEX 6.

Yalel

COMPLETE AUURCAS

прок ньоти 74-60 на ку, пе х опті а д

Prescuti

Powder Springn, Gecigle

Prusent

?

leader of Organiansic.

to .Combint

Corsauni am

Alexis, Inc.

Cool Ront of Coording

ine.

Norbell-south, Tre.

Ponder Serings, Ceorgia

Atlinto, Georgia

Atlenta, Georgin

Atlanta, Georgia

EDUCATION

Or +0H031

10.

INCLUDING FULL

TENANIN LATA ON FARENTO AND CHILDARN

I CONTINUIS

26 TES 1957

is 1780nnisue3

---

## Page 40

14-00000

ITTN

SECRET

-12-7200

CIA INTERNAL USE OILI

Chief, Donatic Collection Diptsica

Suppore Branch/oss (Ryan/fees)

Triold offico

•LL January 1974:

- Mitchell Lo Werbell, ILl

3 055-44-74, Decod 8 Jonuery 1976

hanse you for reforent. For the record, subject hon made wo

further effort to contact anne in this offled, niellorly, va

plan no otecapto to get in touch wich die.

Thus tie moctor

roote there dt this writing.

Siould lo. call Disto, hovever,

de will keep the advice concasied in setorent so cama in doling

with lilm.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 41

ches, Field pate

1 Ne Truce samarie

E-12-79.00

099-44-70

B January 1074

utcholl ko Borbell. IIT

Cie havo erariod sutijecte 201 111o for adallionni Incoralion

Subject sos of loserse do luis izuccy du 1009 nad win grantod a

pot in lucist of that ycar.

Tate xas cascolled in Octobor lesg. mes

nite inforution promo to bo of little value and beeruno

It war

suppocred nu ran usana suuncy dues to prococe dio perional toterosts.

10h09 arosequentle

safenpted lo cans liliold off as an Agency

amployee.

He la charcorleca be es lilo no mascrupulous, n

coolordealer" an a prusotor pi eraadloso schemuo.

Tino subject:

lias boon mador inventiracion to 1e72 by bola dho lurcou of Alcohol,

Tobacco sail trearre sud

the unisco states custong sorvico for

actlulues relattag ta pomutblo ascenary activities la Abaco. Istand

2.

It tho sunse should cuciacs your office ngrin, to

mugeest you accope morror ancicariton ho has to offer but rota no

urthor connilaones aicersing hercey contart.

SubjeCt 1n NOT

Bannon so the appropriato cool ure to da extrosoly dositu

charactera

3. Do trust die laundo vasa providio you salia solut

Thanic you for brlnging his

nare too our intontree

Corvicos Br. (occarol)

IP files

NH-25810

---

## Page 42

12.17-03

cielo casca

22 ruy 25/2

8-14000

41917

nt C3r

sullon, reader prince

:8224-728/1

malin tele?

.:1.

1-127900

13,1*

Jeane

== 112:08 6

Restato chis

lare diara

!3.j

11 ti::.

dinastas

attore 1 6!

131.

.! !

22==i3

C6 606.

2.?"

•0oTh69 10t:

curo ni

1,20

J::4

mandere Co

271

¿. de do era ta di modico citadores di cita ratter, plesia caucce

pilotanast

07-11:21111

€: :

12D: 2i29ua

14.51

A:. 1031"

---

## Page 43

14-00000

E0.19.00

Chief, Porsomol Security Divlolon, Os

10 Manch 1902

a labell triaton, the

09 06 039 00002198

Sendence Caredy cano copace beggarding eig T

Interoes

Ess orates or the Curains Col:

entions fortuning to

D/C

900909

taclopire: do cintia abovo

4.51

---

## Page 44

Cocc (Julin Creang)

F121800

ATIN.

Directür, Docentic Contact Service

Rohn Greany (ocC)

Chief, Miant Field Office

10 March 1971

B

Mitchell Livineton Norbell, ult

1.

On 9 Hor 71 we rocolved a lons dietance coll, precisibly fed ander

Surters, George, from subfect, who is an old and unsavory contact of this.

offico dating fror 1959, Wertcll has bech Involved in a variety of crass

the lutest of which concerned an abortive invacion of letti Shich Jola Crasny

(was very nuch coveerned about a year or so go.

Herbell stated that the Departient of Defense had just revoled llo

security cicarance on grounde of serboil's "Ertvolous behavior 1a diedaltian

coper. Werbell erated that he intenued to flent it to the Supreco Come, as

he id always kege us and other elecents of the us Guyerment inforaco.con

cerning develoments in the Multion gutter.

3. Werbell anted if thore was onything that no could do for hir in tha

way of interceding for ht with the Dog, and ve intoned hiu bluntly and in

no uncertaln tenor that be was strictly on la cing and he could do nothing

for hio. He then usked if It vould bo vorchuhito to subpoenalert Coralus

We inforned him that it was up to his attorney to unke such reconnendreichs.

Werbell sooned do rit tho resnage, and then offered to leep us givist

regarding an alleged forticoning attent on laiti Wich 1a being ajorored le

Rolindo Isferrer, even though Unsferrer is currently incarcerated In i tolera!

prison he told lardell that if he wished to goss any inturiation along ve

wonld accept it bus under no circurstances should he arteent to eltect ary

Infuration on vur behalf, He agreed that he suld oferate on tite tards and

cuad hè right be in touch with us again.

In viet of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should

Do a mitter of record and that OGe should be inforced of developsenta

&astrd:8 E

4,51

SECRET

---

## Page 45

14-000n

CONTACTS/CIATI

JOW! GREAsEY,

CONSCTION WITH THE TRIAL OF THE RIGHT IGCIVIRUALS ALLERGOLY 111C1

IS THE BONDING OF FORT-A-PRINCES

- Manoo

IN A (WASHINGTON POSTS ARTICLE TODAY DU CaNeCTIC Ate Atasas

bengall.

CONFIDENTIAD

4.5%

---

## Page 46

(F12-79-001

Director, Domeette Contact Service

31 Kirch 1967

MEN - 028- 64

Chief, Miant Field Office

Michell L. WerBell

A 122900

Think you uill be intercated in the attached clippings, which

Indicate chat all charses have boen dropped agalnet Werßeil

PIcase pase co John Greancy, office of Ceneral Count.

inclosureg

.!'

4,51

---

## Page 47

F-10-79-50

siam

Mawkele

Herald

24. March 1967

picchetti

4.51

---

## Page 48

(CONFIRETAL

-E12-79.00

Director, Docentdo Coalact fervice

24 burch 2067

нD-0123

mean a sorose A 121700

T1-00-6

do borDela curlos the Mical oftene or 23 ran 6i cad then eula ther

may not do, cirloed the coaciary lent the deceral. charge

Satend to ranor our contacto ulth his 1ur too tic: vile of lebat.

Lane ao to our futura ruletiona vich exciza

4.51

6. :

get tRied

Bise, raila 559.

---

## Page 49

7 dar

CONFIDEMTAL

E-12-79-003

Pirector, Docotle Contact Service

Chlar, Nont Fold Offloa

not a ta A 1227053

2 Hares 1068

1002-060-611

Enratnot cub tecte logell ma tudicted ou elect congitracy chorea Gaving

out of tho abort iva Imasion ettoupt de Latti a doore Can 000.

Follone to Indicient berbol called un nad indfcated that ho

vs to bo Liarlored do "nosicildo TV Limupo atation Falris 16 oticnio.

No callod larry Bosnia cad cühed hin to baitor local cover, ond 123

coverod the is statione for a perlod of reseel dogi tercoli did not

anons on a intloud hoolan, lut Marry. Houres/Intoned un shot he dia

agar on a two strto tund coment onatho ASper, Cios N.1. telecect

forboll batd ho sould, 11 he coutu, "biho a cicirco'o arcat of

Dulcht Hernhover, John roone, do ai, becaico to all no more ten they

Tarry cold thas to dida't halteve thas the ciation cook hin diale

se are cheloning a clinping frod tho

criola 1o quoted consemine the indictent

4. Could you peaco geco the alova to John Arennen. You nicht Ingora

Ara that tha crolenant e un unlosimated soderl virlatel in Mieat

sadoubicaly retoro to tie custons done do charre, vice bica lercit had

a converuation, prior to callier, ua.

In our conversat long he bave hud no nurthor contut with barell.

hockild mored his in the taco fisale

3 par

Maclorres

do stated

Hi51

CSMTELYTAL

---

## Page 50

14-00000

E12-79-00

SECRET

SECRET 2145EZ CITIES: TACTS/SAC'S 1714

€3

CACTS/WASHINSION

SPOUSCTE

ALLEGED ASGASSINAIIOS ATTEMPT

XIAEL 1710

01: 127200

TELEONG OF 21 FLO AND 23 FEL 67N

ITCHILL FOR BELL CALLED

VYLSIRRONY TO MOVISE

BHAT WE HAD RECZIVED SO PROS CALLS ENON

CHET GILY

FXPRECEING

CONCHAN OVER THE FACT THAT NO SUE HAD CONTACIEO KIN F

COTSEORING INE ALLEGEO NOSESSIMASION ATTRUPT REFERNED TO IN

71.54

230.I 171G. COOTSTARLO TORT MILESS HE HEARD PRO: CURLODOY LNEOLATELY,

•LL ALO TARE HIS INFORATION TO THE GOVERNOR OF CALIFORHIN 09

" DARIOROS GOLVE, DESERLY MILLS; TELER 270-422203

$ 01 $ 873

Copy Fit To 67-51 (cal shay)

4.51

---

## Page 51

RETT

Chlof, Poroonnel Cocurity Wiricien, 00

[chier,

even Division errace

Kesh, Matchell la

Concuntention meant c

1127100

Ele du reary 2007

Meado tonaed a copy ee the cactegei cou

Airso luc

meter ly phene on 25 revery i.

sirects, 40

narule to

inclenure: de duanai mbers

есі но на трот

dange

---

## Page 52

SECTET!

FE-12-79.00

Do to ca

his concorine the alice usaalna its titant crime a racin dislait.

roy minol that unco lo lem dros crane tirculately ho roud so to te

(Er 2i30)

8-47-4j1

Cope, ry all patto!

4,51

---

## Page 53

8/2 20

ATT

chiet, dersonel recurity Ditloion, or

Directero

pentie Costert Service

(Cuer, Cerices Dinicical

LET, Ktcholl e m Rocent Telegene Coll frer Chet dux

Poincincelca

7 127950

in us of clase Réintivo of Midalu inst

Palor:

21 Tebruary 1067

6121.20.

Ont vent pa to tuit.

nicotter Bericiden

se'thto colice, hon diceusoa3 i

weo todd the Fit will. com.ct

miecquently obrise uc

L// Ce0100 25

3h:

al Facia

Diclorure: Telutre Controtshunn1-1719

doted 2o jenniury 1537

7 par)

4.51

---

## Page 54

Lame. Officas

of

Edwin Mangon

Said Kinanady (Sai di Pen

Richined It Barris

Sharil O. Veroniss

Ionald S0. Malin

Narge I Fairhad

Illas f. Hell (Then di Da)

of Coursed

P 76-028

Lo'S

Talgalins: 950.1986

Slan Prt (1448

Port 200

6088 Preme Soreige Piral

Shanno. Ferrore SERSO

December 30, 1975

Gene F. Wilson,

Information and Privacy Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Reference is made to your letter of December 13th,

1975 concorning our client, Mitchel Livingston

Worbell,. Ill and his request for information under

the Freedom of Information Act:

I am enclosing a notarized

statement providing you

with the address and place of birth of Mr. Werbell.

With regard to your last paragraph asking for clari-

as to which records he desires

scarched, we, of course, are not familiar with your

files or filing system.

Mr. WerBell spent sometime

in the United States Army during World War II and

has traveled extensively since that time.

ile was in

Cuba at the tino of the Castro military operation,

in the Dominican Republic during that military overd

tion and in Thailand and Viet Nan during

the Viet Nan

War. we feck quite confident your office must have

extensive files and documentation concerning Mi. kicr

Bell and this reguest for information is intended to

NIO

4.4%

1:"

---

## Page 55

14.0000

Gene F. Wilson

Docember 30, 1975

Page Two

cover all information contained in the files of your agency.

should any of tho rattar contained in yous lilos have des

security clearance classification that would preclude

dissemination,

we would appreciate being notified that the

information exists.

We would appreciate your early attention to the foregoing.

very truly yours,

Said mely

RK: den

Enclosure (1)

4,49

---

## Page 56

AFFIDAVIT

STATE OF GEORGIA:

SS

COUNTY OF FULTON:

I, MITCHELI LIVINGSTON WERBELL, Ill, after first being

duly sworn, do hereby, under oath, depose and say that my

current

address is 4321 Macland Dallas Road, Powder Springs, Georgia,

37007. Further, that I das born on March 8, 1918, in Philadel-.

phia, Pennsylvania.

I further swear and affirm that I am the same MITCHELL

LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III, whose signature appears below and that

I am the sane person tho is making the request for releaso of

information.

Sworn to and subscribed hefore me, Notary Public, on eho ElSe

day of

Reciate 1015.

Notary Pubite

My Commission expiress t

173. 1115 n

---

## Page 57

-E 12-79-001

ELCHE T 2IS37E CITS CONTACTS/MIANE 1719

COSTACISI ASHIROTON

F.1018

A 121900)

NAVS RECHIVED A FOGS CACCIAL PACAR COLL FROM HITCHEL

2. VERGOLE IS A SOLDIAR GE SOSTONE TYPE SHO RAS 3iL: 1

OCUAGIOTAL CONTACT SITA INSO LETICE, OF HIS CEN VOLATION, SISCRSSSS

QUALE MA CACAVORY CHARETICO RUGH OF THE INFORHATION IL HAS

FUNGACALD MAS PRODEO TARE, LE SUANISIED CO-PLETE DETALE GI THe

JUSE NÃO A TELEPRONA COL FASE COT BOAY GA LOG AULLESO) NO ADORESS

Cerone C14-43

12 3-67-32

TO GET LINEAVIO ANAL LUCIDIAT TRATIMIGAT CAVO. INTERNIO

# 1.09.14 (242t Gry)

---

## Page 58

stanis tendira

PAGE 2 CONTACTSAIML MID ICRET

REPERCUSSIONO AND ASKRU VENTIL FOR NOVICE. NUR

DELL ACVISED GRAY

TO INFORE THE SUI IN LOS ANGLLUS, BUT GALAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.

SERBELL THEN ASKED SAD IS ME NOULD SE GILLING TO TALIS KITH A

*EMBLE OF CA ACE DANCER, SENDELL TOLD CROTHAT IF A

ICPRSCENTATIVE GE IT: GUPÖTLD ILM, WEABELL'S NASE WOULO BE

USED NO ENTREE.

SUT I DID GRET A CAT BRAG PICO LOS MADELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S

NEUSE IN I9GO, SU". DOTAILA DE WHICH DE CONTAINED IN CUACSSS601

AND GARGO 599: OATHE 16 DEC UNO CHAY 1O A NOISRICUS HOODLUM

-TO GOT BASELY DOGG DOC DOCHED FOR EUCH PUSPOSAR

5a.

ILLAGE MAGOLE THERNCUE AN YOU SEE 51I.

3T

---

## Page 59

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1094

CIA MSTORICAL REVEW PROGZAM

MICSUTO DO CAT 14100

A THI

SUDJECTS

GEr:

Ehus Gacacammires cuteret Do dideL Cistru

MY 6n1-0der 180002

JINAT A SACUP 35 516

XEU NENIS 0KSI

RXO. X0 82321 4763 6036 600 16 CURBENTLY 1 TOF

VARNUNRC/HOUORG PERO iNDICIENN PORROSE L6 A026548:A0JOR EECTELL

caotonto beldparerao tnum 2or SA0eod8eBE FOuRD W9T PO2ES 620

Gucotohny ToNcan 1u di To Lhoree THe cenetide KuA6t ceCred-2aLae

ALCOTRICUTY TO NAVP:.

THS CHOA EE TORAAG0 ACARGANG H9021 87C: 02/ 20069 947554

THEY MUAG CHOGLA EE PRONN CEUGKLAEU SCRCGONCR MIRIC DSTOURICES

turce tant Parreante deeto do monte donurte fir Defesanea

Calege ca: ce ma Moa Ch AaircH:c1 Tr 1989 470403774

Co do The CeuCReo AAAlE ATitleDE d CAADo CoIOURDATISs

1O TO HON TALr 5106 0i! D: 11006 k611al Pooidne Cloor SAlo T9 16ta

tisclonin 501ci212e

ATiann on te MoeuG CuST alle te i6 Kilk wae Die.

PLACTHATS MORG PCLAR ECDGIEH TUEG GILL ELO, LO KEG NOUSPRGTO

do lthtea 115 101 E 2:50 ALLEaratr deà

CHOuP 1Orad AT CEoRRl MHH MU FUAPOCE DE AGCA0G0141106 71211

ÇASTiU.

No reann Mucle Mialete YOD dee flte trli piubail i0a

Aarolhaos de: sed Ra0d RORentg POlTost TY:e

6E 1: 020010110

worclidolie

¿r: Los no coutle clacu caoro de eaz de 18 Dic do lonCl douey

10139

ytet maeees Sauudit dag desoralE

•noto lwloH99!1

át Coo dondllnü dürillii

44.-51

---

## Page 60

oto:

ands: 17.90y 2959

otect sirinson

Brandig

Chief, Meal HOll O0r10

die of Vialt to Hitcholl Mirtal: Do

221i Dororte Cirelo

Coral Cables, Florida

Ds the evening of 21 July 1959 I receivod a tewphrun call Mois nibfeut

stio hnd been given my nem end eddresa by mother semint of the italilinace

commity in comnection with the rosnibllity of hia mosier along ato Informtion

concerning the swored impending flight of Brilota to the us.

2. Hartell Indiented that he spent a mont enourt no his tine in the

Dratatem Ropiullo mnd had extramly close rasociativn ulta lectera of tue estorso.

ment, and alco vith Conoral Joso Redrasa. Un clairen to bare beca a tomor miter

of tha 033 vich service in Chino In WIt. Nurball la a soldler of-fortune type

ubo rears a nocio, drive a Marcoves tons, morto a noot astractive blonda eles

friend, and In a Dia spendoro le also valunteured tau do bas a ulte end mix

children lirtag to Coongin

3. Braball told mo that his principle poures of lucona do in dealing siza

Caban pecos, and cald that do to ensociatod in the matress eith a flam Lipic ot

Garbor sandt.

1. (Ligio aloo claima to hava bora a sender of DES surine MII, certas la

Zaa Rumanica end Enotera Duropert area.

Layto sas bustly sagarl in maiday Ions

¿satanco picco calla to herco ilty, Guatemala CIty, sal la Angalia during o

Jart of the tise I mo tits the groupe

Varboil Eara sa ross insorsation me Datista"a plane, wiles to baalcally

sopposition, end furalsted none other narainal information shich la leing for

tarted, althousa in my opinica little crodence can to placed ta anything bo soya.

It li hard to evaluato vat harball's motims era la connection nità ula destau

to furioi loiorantion rogeraing Latiotn to us, but it appeured that he tas ale

etteryting to Ilch for inforuntion, throuing out a mmber os quartsons conccring:

the blitore Termca lotel, reportedly recently to lure bein purchaned by Cuben

Interests vita 9 allian Cuban pesos, The penthousa reportedly bad been cunglatois

redecoratod, ulth bravy steal doors fuariiar the entraci.

"hts penthouse sulte

bas been turorod to be lotlita's istended hodquarters cuce da arrives ta the 08.

All of enla bus bean trition about ln tha josaly columne at tho local papers.

6. Dauch as harbell las sy no and shose mabor, probably little com

be done to prevent him gotelas in touch with m tron sun to ties, tri contaci

1111 not bo tritiated by no enom by aLection. To bale JugO a RilE m

1s for the scardo

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 3004

CIA MAT D02 ROME.

32 M

---

## Page 61

14-00000

Ohe Allarda Lorma

Covers Dixie Like the Dew

Since 1883

hansas M9. Coe, Chairenas 1437.1937--J00na Cox le. Cha:

163713?

Jack Tarior, President

Jack Spaldong, idits:

22-A497+4

APRIL 9, 197:

The Need for MARTOC

THF: ROSSIBILITIES SE MARTA &

Wright, & latar

1ios, 22a5:

ot.Agood and bad are tremai

Ause taith in Mr. Heigie: 25

dous. Oin tao good side the area yacas

a rapid anpconomical tranippation

system. The boca alzo cocás af.z, con-

atraction projser

Wken

MARTA

was rushlished 11

tas apparent that the pie it woulo

bring was halancecbs de tremendong

possibilites dor puttpage and feath-

ertidding. so. a corpance was estab

lished ly the Gynerd Ascenhly

overce MARTh

was called

ЗАКТОС.

The area

Wds MARTA tu it now

recas MANTOC as never berre.

briching

into pi

ablems delay!:

sion of has rait saite d.

with condunatig!

otacr

with de Trina=

ther is insubs ste bur

nican mora reis.

more rond,

сісосу о! yeope d:

MARTas hoard ie ve

the hysing of tire

falara

board in?

ini

Later contract time is ming up

i for MARTA

and ugon dis concome

ridesane fale of the lá tent fare.

The

enntler is amare ca

dulies tere.

Which Domino Is Meri

1,51

---

## Page 62

F12. 78-00

18 April 1975

MENORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Herbell

On 17 April 1975

• DDO/FIO; Called DCD

the green line to relay the following OGC priority request.

Please check Agency records for:

.

Mitchell Kerbell,

DPOB: 16 Novembor

1949: Atlanta, Georgia

b.

Godfrey derbell

DPOB: 21 June

195li Atlanta, Georgia

Thes

to have boch charged with crimes..

alleged they work for ClA.

Aiter checking DOD's records I found that DCD

has had

contact with Subject's father in the past.

records

reflice no direct contact with the sons.

only mention

the sons

appears in

published

in The hashiniton

27 December 1970,

section" D,

and a cable

rosfy March 1075 (Mirector 070514).

DDO/FIO was notified of the above by telephone. on

17 April

1975.

Distribuzion:

Огі.

.1

11900

DOD/LOMA

1:-

CO/DCD

1.10

E : IMPORT CI. BY 010650

---

## Page 63

32-0

A AN

8 c00)

OMF

40400390280304

SECRET

HH 6080A mon

SALTS MUNCHION

STAFF

8078

0

0198.100 0906

1927572

DIRECTOR

COMP: NE 10 INO: PHA 11/AM. FRS, DODZ LSN/ID

clOPS LAIO

12-79500

#pes

20CS ORDEA

670514

514n n030

PER

O i mas

#

TO: FRA

AJAJA FORRES Y

REF:

FR.

30417 1IN 5122141.

2.

MICHELL L. WERBELL.

1? 799°

{201-2599101 IS PARTNER OF DEFENSE

SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC. OF FOUDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA A LICENSED

ARMS DEALER. HE BORN 8 MAZ 292A, PHILADELPHIA. HES HAS LENGRA

203 ON WERBELL WHO HAS LONG HISTORY POPPING UP IN AREAS AND SITUATIONS

WHERE CAN MAKE FEU FAST BUCKS. HE CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS,

WHEELER-DEALER AND PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. ME OF OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN MID-Z959 WHEN BECAME INVOLVED. WITH ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTERS

IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND OFFERED PROVIDE SHERALD WITH INFO ON

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IM CARIBBEAN. HE GRANTED POA IN AUGUST

1958 BUT THIS CANCELLED OCTOBER 1951 UNEN HIS INFO PROVED BE OF

DATE:

ORi6:

EXT:

под ПРД448

BAPHUOUCROY BY SINIA TANI THE ISSUING DIS CE 13 EROMMITEO

4. 31

#7916AT9 DIPPINE

€ 2

IMPOET

CL BY:

SECRET

---

## Page 64

19900

OMF

0

20

D

0

SECRET

STAFF

COMP:

САТЯ

DIRECTOR

•INTO: FILI

DIsSEM aTs

670514

no mina

O T PER

0 mo

LITTLE VALUE AND IT SUSPECTED THAT HE USING BKHERALD@ FUNDS TO.

PROMOTE PERSONAL INTERESTS. EVER SINCE, BKHERALD. HAS BEEN DIS-

CLAIMING VERBELL UHO HAS REPEATEDLY ATTEMPTED PROMOTE SELF AS REP

OF INBUZZ AND BRICRALD. SINCE MUCH OF BEHERALD INFO ON WERBELL

ORIGINATES LNERGO, NE SUGGEST LNERGO REP/NEW YORK PERFORM TRACE

THROUGH HIS OFFICIAL CHANNEL, CABOVE INFO MAY NOT BE PASSED FOREIGN:

NATIONALS BECAUSE VERDELL WODUAL CITIZEN I Y

ONLY TRACE ON MITCHELL WERBELL IV IS THAT HE ALSO INVOLVED

FATHER'S!

IN/0B99930 ARMS BUTINESS TRADE. HE HAS HAD NO CONNECTION WITH

BKHERALD. y

4• FILE: 201-938267. EZ IMPDETA

OATE:

17 MARCH 1935

ORIG:

WAIT.

NEVARN/I

X1:1

4E 1362uler

LM/S505

. NE/50.

CNEDARN/I.

CNE/ARN.

• FR/D 2..

ARNAQDUCIION DY DINA PRAN INE ISSUIDE OFFICE IS PRON: TED

SECRET

SA/DENE/AO

THE E40442RE

€ 2

IMPOET

CI. BY: 025268

---

## Page 65

CANtO ArC UIASIM

PORALEERS

1/1

--509

SECRET

STAFF

ADYANGECOI

ACTION WEL

1695

ACTION I

FILE

4/22

T: 256357

E14471

CORS DDO

F-12-79-00

PAGE 01

TORL: 120552.

JUL 74

IN 394569

ATER C6309

SECRET SLAZACE JUL DA STAFT

CITE FR/L

00J49

Jul

etcaron

TO! DIRECTOR,

RYDAT 150L00

GECASE KENNY, FOI SPECIAL AGENT TML

HAS:

ADVISED BASE THAT HOWLAD GIBSON HEAD OF

BASE CENTRAL

INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY OFFICE IN WASHINGTON AND FOGNER

SUBURGAN

ATLANTA COBE COUNTYS COE ADVISED HIM BY TELEPHONE THAT

WASKINGTON COFICE, SUELGAGED BY HIM TO DRUG ENFONCEMENT

AGENCY BEING USED BY ENVERALD AS FLECTRONIE SURVEILLANCE IP.

GIOSON CLATUS OFFICE DO CUMAGE EKHERALD OFFICER ANGGE NANO:

GAROLED. ON PHONE!

KENNY DELIFVES NAME MAY BE CONCEH, OFFICE

IS LOCATED 4 0A5 BLOCKS FROM WHITE HOUSE,

KE:TY WILL ATTENP"

ODTAIN ADORESE

GUMEP CENTPAL INVESTIGAYIVE AGENCY IS ATLANTAN Y*

MOGLEO LOCAL GUN RUNNER AND FRIVATE BYE ON WAGH DOO LAS

REPORTED, HEROELL AND GIBSON CUERENTLY ME LATIONIDEN FOR DONNEW!

REASON. FOI AGENT KENNY STATES GIOSON PROBABLY CAPACE C16:0103

- BARAL STORY

¡AUDELY AS MEMS ENDARRASS WORDELL.

1,38

SEC F:

---

## Page 66

KOUTING AND RECOLO SHaL

•Stove Van Clenve

FROM,

I No

TO: lorea designation, souri purslipo, 099

bwildingl

Support Dranch/Oss

Arin: Grant

DATE

INitIAiS

BICRIMO

A'T1:-78-74

21. June. 1071

C0:1e1188 1s rene each is

whom

Drew no lind

B 2206 Peo

1.1211191:

Baterence our betacon or bran

110 inesi

"ris

transcri

has bra

Clenrid

"re tiding this only

СОРУ і

10

4,37

---

## Page 67

I had board is runor that, 1 thought at the time that theer guys, those liters

can'l be delia, allo again, but in the last were 1 have picked up a grone dial cá

Ardurintlors that i chink nerdi su be know de chlo location that involves che

Wormell grasp out of louder Springs. Are you funtilar with that nano? lio, 1's

not.

2111 has been hondling all of that and l Just don't know anyching abou: 1:.

Mr. Van Cleave. You can give me what information you have and I will pass !e o=

or do sat ve can, but 8111 has been handling that entirely and we work differe::

accounts and I'm sorry to say that I am cotally unfamiliar with le.l hell, jes =e

Put it to you this way, Is there any way at all that you will be in touch sit

B111, do that I could get this information to him by phone. (Well, he is up in.

Tennesses and we can get in touch with him, yes. I could give him a call.) lei:

let ze glue yos a brief synopals so that you can at least pros that on to his.

And do the process, 1'1l have to sive you a bee of background on thia subjest. :

consider it very inportant, not frou the ataripoint of the face that what these

PEople 378

involved in nos is starting to break, but 1 chink it lo extromol;

Inportant that this location gols something in tn Indicate that cheir contost less

then kara sinat in golng on. Mechell Worbel is a gun denler bastcally.

He has

wat 1s callus a laon out at Ponder Springo, Cencgia, Basically, 1e 15 a place

of property dich a lake and a firing range and a big house and

i gun shop belov

and a sande with about three thousand Indren submachine suns and

other assorted

weapons. Dra turboll boa been in and out of ill kinds of things.

He pops us ali

Over, ise tries publicily and to loves to deply a relationship wich the daeros.

Don, above a year ago they were lavolved with sone people from Brstaln in en

attempi to set up a i sccession of the laland of Abaco, at the time the Bahomas care

aranted their Independence. Now this vas a vory serious thing; there verd perria

Includini, mabere of Parlinent fros London that cane over here and they were deire

no hare a scall army on Abaco and the local settlers on Abaco

were all for ais

beraune theg were mostly wille and

the thing never got off the ground

at thar eira.

Monter, 1% 995 known, there dre neupon articlen written abour dee tria:

lentinee she joine Misdoins of the alamas das Inceneed by this whose scare sa

handelage in you could

clink of anthing that would be asainst the best laires:

?:.

---

## Page 68

14-00000

suddonly grown bigger. And so be more pecifle shout thing who 1 50;

tha:; i

con tell you that 18 1o a lact that lant Tauroday nighs the now Ambansador croa

the Bahanas in bushingeon due Congressman indeer fruri, so one ride it a recepel:a

and they discussed this mattor with genve verdouonest. Ok, now, sherefore i ar

positive that within certain circles in Wachington this ratter 1a being disesssa!

al this moment.

Now I also learned thut loot week the whole group of the re-beila

and their associates were in Washington and 1'11 sive you the nares that I know :

for sure:

Miko Oliver, who do a key igure in thie, le represente several deany

Americans and Beitlahers who have long hud a drean of having their own island 2=1.

establishing their own country. Now this soundo like somethind right. out of chea?

fiction; however, de la a fact.. I have met Mike Oliver. And there are about sit

wealthy individuals, one of whom I think Ives In lic Bahamas, I belleve cro are

1n England, one of then I thiuk is Lord lollhaven do de a nonber of Parliazent.

He has boon over to the form recently and lu vashiuglen a for socks ago wies this.

About three wealthy luericans, oll older follows bits miny milliona. How chis

ching cane up once before about eight yeare too don they bought a boat and 011ver

went our into the rachfic nod laid claim to

the cocal roch in the Samoan Istands

think it was and plauted i flag on it and cotebliched the lice soverson state

0÷

Monerva, life Mngazine had a spread

on this. And Lual lasted fee about a veck

unt13 ln Plug of tanon, or cobebody, deuc tribal tiny dent.

land of

side of tapel

putting solde a plode of Nicaraguan soil nod diving 1e catra territortal righes

and I know they have toney. To make a long story short, Oliver is involves in

this.

Ile cone 1n, I undesstand, tro wools after con ashanas got thele independence

and

naid we've got

the money for the Abneo operacio

No. I have de on coca

source from an

infornant

in ther orcantation let a couch or so ago a l-real trust

cane up from Fort Louderdal In Che Middle of

the alpist and

loaded up a bunch ei

guns and explosives and took then lo fort Lauderdois. The non of che men ta

drove che truck was wally Gillis. le to a freclareer soldier co tortune type iri

p...........?:.

a bot o you know, a poud dined arulier, don se

an cha Bahamas of wherever.

supporely Chis material sid lot be houd More Sade tale Dol deleted is

he dig

involved down there sit a balli need lon denittine burnetint at t

---

## Page 69

3

Werk wan Mike Aller, Mltelen. Gerbell, 11t, recired Colonol Baburt Nayard, ls

Army cho done lves ln the nee and to associated with horbell and a selloy

nased Chuck Hall who lo e rentaone of the Bahamts la Nassau, sho is & key par:

of illa operacson. And I don't know who else hue they were baying for severa:

daya nt the Cramerey Inn, Wenhfrigton. It

1s my understanding that chey nado

contact there with a former agent of your orgonization, wich an offer of

substantlal amuncs of money. for lilm to recrule covert types, para-military

types, technicians - in effect, mercenaries. And I have reason to belleve tha:

he in reporting this information. I certainly lope so. So again, what I am

showins you as that I think stuff is coning into hashinston right fast. Now

Werbell has been known to drop Mr. Colby's name to me and to many other people

becaune he wingled - Werbell orlatnally was in the OSS you know.

So he has a

lot of old fricinds who are OSS types in those days and l understand one of chese

old boys did have dinner with colly and Werbell wangled his way into it a couple

of montha ago In unshtngton, So, that laall he needs to stärt dropping names.

11ke nad. He does know some people in and former people. Noy 1 understand tha:

they have also made contacte ln Mant recently with two companies cho manufacture

clectronte coulpment and uned the name of another former Agency man who is noi

with the DEn in Washington, Agali, I have an intoranne in the organization whe

ts about ready to break sill tliem and he has told me all this. He was in the

office unco calls vere made to these people, talking abour buying clectronic

squtpeone which to illegal and using the name of this former Agency man in the

DEA and Indicating that they would lile to

see the equpment, that lic'll probatin

arrange to buy some, that type of ching. and I know for a fact that that indiscrat

knows about this now and he to a good man and in good standing with everybody.

sut to summaries tits, the point is this - the whole coing is idlotic schene t

bunich of fools. Is In Inanced by some wealthy iddoes; you know, who haye

money. and are behind the srines and these fools in ocher words, if condone carc..

1a1:..

spires die boded dee destrums lifestles i

couldn't touch de with in foot pole because it is corally against the interes

of badio andornmenta

intod... Men the silehtest look on it can cause a serious.

diplomale probler, von in, reparless of los erad it lo, the fore ls an

Inundeene of-dile to looting Acericans, topilind the comes cue, the lira:

..satan that do erdo, do late one agency lomodeedle lend clude che liland of dee:

M..!...

:...i..

---

## Page 70

19 that 1e?) Jes, dou see the Bahamas a 1 don't know how Saral lar you are was?

them, but they don't have an army of anything. Thes have a coall police force.

and they have some small pollce boats, little 30 foot jubs that run around the

Islande, and they are talking about establishing. . : laren't choy selli undar

the Brittsh protection for forcign troops?! I would certainly think so, but

there are no troops stationed there; you follow me? But what I am tryins to say

1o the Implications of this thing which I know now are known in kashington by

people. When you have the Bahaniom Ambassador, the new Ambassador, getting a

black American congressman from Georgia aside - you see these people calk a loey

that to anocher reason - anybody invulved with them is crazy. They have all kleds

of these mercenary types and they make. calls all over in Miant and all over the

world and calk about their schemes and it has broken somewhere, you know, along

clie fine, probably in the Bahamas or Mtant, IWell do we know now what the essence

of the conversution was between the Ambassador and young?] I chink to expressed

grave concern about this situation. I chink some names were given of the people.

You see they know who Verbell Is because Pendling, in fact, one time made a vary

rough speech about this type of thing with the erican intervencion in the affairs

of the Bahamas and the name Werbell is an international soldier of fortune. ' I

am concerned about one thing:

No. 1, I know it isn't going to get off the ground

now.: I knew de never would. It might have got off tic ground but the thing Is

it's one of these things that could be so messy and opponents, let's say peoplo cu

the other side would love something like this so they could capitalize on it fozeic -

you know, reports linting al secret invulvement of an heerican intelligence agency

and attempes, do estralial a bass in he Balonas, a pood propagandase could jüst.:

have a field day vith this. So I have d fecling that unless I'an really cracy I.

chink people in your organtzation

are avare at this nosent of this thing surfacias

ti Washington. And

that is why I an calling this office lecause I have given

Information here boture da Linge poogle and I cited that de's soportant has 1i

somobody, says - Hey, have you guys heard anthins abore then ard you fellows say

no, ke haven't heard anything - you know. Wield poursect in your own

this is soncching chae will cone aboue ta the very near insure, this attempt?l:

Nas l mile have coy i have is foolion too ahe atranpe dada not coes about as al

I ends people do coldro aure chine quendone dou chos des baot the decea

al these people and ll the loner agot up there doe to del cived toioretion ta

..n: cane do ta codest deed dd mood eleg differed

---

## Page 71

him

to recrude proplo lor chis tide's why they were in auction last tod

Tito fellow lever up chere and he te now du the funerted no a priyate teches

but no so a former agent of mur organdaation. So ! Just, want to ba

Burger:

fellane down here, you know i encong aske

a question, of if they dong

least you throw a report in indierting

that an inioraine hote mangy ge

has given you this inforession because thore is another factor

Herbell - see Bill knows about my refacionship usth me as force

take verball to Argentina last year for a private client of mine e Ons of chea

Board of Directors thought he kes the Sicatest Internationt thing dn tho serld

and he was, the bigsuat millaton tilove ever had around my nech a as ders th

defending againet the ERY terrorist group aid herbell bas runned over

seceing drunk and hinting chace nore bie Americin secret agents.

after teleft and nearly got pig

ed up by. the federal police

of mine i might add, so i sogges

Situation cleared down there

alk to melt do international eugley york for corporations and he vante

Involved with me in busthese and terefused to tave anything to do with

YOU

Buc he loves to ges drunk ing coll me and brag. And he called reg

eye more ago aud cold do one righ a erot to dolled welles?

IPhope:

well

you're crazy. It's no

a to any private citizen of pravace one pl

to polanywhere in the wortu and ser involved wich people gainst the soverreant.

it Just some rouble, that's all chere is tate.

And 1 forgot about

that rand

called at the rarols steer the areer allah dods clure und

nanedichts

source there as it, colonel Gáry pesto andige di turns out prado wus oneror do

tivo

leaders of the attempted copand he had shipped guns down there through

How orleans, through ma interedletyred Millips, md here ninth - vets

frankly, Bonadre his General, mugg bonzaire the strong san of Bolivia, and.

-doabe feline ve bave bad relariona such them do face, no is Beretus clunde

strons nen down there and ar is a known lace that he hares coamuntst and te

schos no troops one do dare area so wome showed anyony de doing eringge

overthrow no and co aise coccaste de to old econtry boy fut that deas.

---

## Page 72

eles round up errybody ond Interrogado chen and sag dere de yoo que the-puns cos

chey. find lagrani and Ingrans

only conc from fierbell id then you love frate

Departmont you sund, saying wot de chime du you know who, donn here crylneeo

overthrow our government. And ulnce prado, by the say was leader of the gropps

that leoptured Shay Dravarro (pli) than once again you set knith a good lift-sing

journolist can reully veove a nice licile story of that ble bad Agency down the:

dons, chinga again. So he la like a mouquito in thine he docen't accomplich

anything but he le very dangerous in my opinion to our relattone. Bad enough to

reso up good chings. (I w1l1 paso this on to. B111.) Well tell lin chis, that

I was in Washington last weck and let me cmphasize again chat I would be the sos:

surprised percon in the world if Sanfor Officers at Langley oren't awnre as of

the traday, of this situacion and through the washington surfactig there, you.

föllow me?

And really I like Bill and what I'm trying to do, I'm putting sysele

in lota positions and tula do sãs arca indi sono thae reporta, bechuse I bave

talkedito him before about them and l'an nure that this has been made a untter

of record. And I gust chink il would be nice for alll eo be able to eny yeo, =;

Informant has alven me information - chis Infornatton. Recaune It will ali tre

Ine You nighe sentien too that withito the lack tu months werholl lag sinited

Vesco In Conta Kien ed after chot viatt i Vesco assoclate named Marino cano up

here from Ponaon and stayed al Werbolles. So he Is dealing now with Vesco toc and

ati of chis le gust cothing bue bad.. dud he da Inplying, he cullo to neropaper

people and writees nud lie doco Imply and une names thoe le la not authorkeed co

use and shouldn't usc. I know that he do not an afficial or unofflolal or anyerit

olse connected with your asency but this 1e the voy he lo smaring. People are

dealing with him chinking that really ho ls - there are chough problems happentra

as it is but all de noed.te oud good left iing newapoper mon to pet-hold of ches

sype, of thing and set le in Jack Anderson'e colum or sone place like daas and

have an officlal blast fron the governmort of the bahaato and then everybody 1r

- che world is gotng to chink that

the ageney was beland thits and you coughe. Ce

ressio a algeriados cons, o arald saladige do angosciane, a conne die tali ui muse

weck is going co be a istelo dil late bocasso chere nigie ivon be pous public

Ps 2009 ore say tome, diodede do 310-1676.

---

## Page 73

30006-+ 1

12-79-00

CU:

Moalt rtkt

E

97'74

CONFIDENTI

A.L :515492 995 P4 STAFF

CITE DCDA

12494 •

DCD/

AIIN:

SUad:

SUPPGÃT ERAICHOSS GAIT A IE 20:14

STAVEE VAN CLEAUEO IETCLLIGERGE SOARICEOO ITOOR AELAITA

GEURS1A

HEF : CRANI/IEINEOSDY TOLiGON E5 FLGMLEATO SANE CUERSCT

l. Dußlio Tre AFTCirood of 21

1?7÷ F260.1VE0 1

7659

TELEFIONE CALL FAOM AASALCO MLI0:2

FLORIDA,

Fecrahisd Rofn, Dla"le

TC ARWISED US

THAT AÏ ACGUMINTALOO DE HIS DN ATLATIAS GOSCLÀO STOVEN DEG GLEONTA

WANTED TO SPEAR MITU UA LA CONVOTICE MITH ITELLEL100 CETCRIE

CONCERNING LATIM ANERICA. DE TOLE GLEEDE PEAT WAÜ GLEAVE

SHCULD COUTACT CUR OFFICE 10D

PEiRVAR, ALLIEGKO SAID

ThAT

VAX CLEAVE DIDSOT MANT TO DEAL MITA OFGORUITSRGO', PATWON

HE BANTED TO SPEAY WITH A CIA CEFIOER DIE TWE LGINASS GF INTEI-

LIGESCE COLLECIION , WE TOLO ALRAGGP TUAT PUS

=JEFFICE

NAS TNE SARE STATLAD AS IXE

FIALO MRICA, 9SD TRAT VE SHOULD

URGE VAM CLEAVE TO CONTACE CLA RUGGEMAROETIl: 10

ALLIE35:

VOLIAN'T ACCEPT THIS RUSPCHOE D: OLE PEÄT AND LACISTED TRAT VE AT

LEADT MEAR CHAT MAA CLONVO MO GO SYO G1E0LYO DE NÜKEEN TO

ACCOPT À CALL FROH VAN CLEATE SO DAAT : BIULE TOLL UIS TE CONTICT

Oi.k

FRPTECEHTATIYYO

1 34

---

## Page 74

PAGE 2 DODA

IZASA CONFIDENTIAL

2.

• VAN CLEAVE CALLED US AT MIS EXPENSE FAO?

ALCUT

FIVE MIÜUTES LATEHO WE ADVISED HIM AS INE CUTOST THAT NE

SHOULD SPEA% WITH

IS THE L

PESIDENT OFFICE

AT HIS KAMLIEST CONVENISYCE.

HE EXPLEITED THAT OUA WORK FONCE

IS CIVICED GLCGRAPMICALLY RATIER THAL FLACTICALLY, AND THAT

SINCE M2 LIVES 14

HE MUST DEAL CITY THE

PROVICEC HIM WIIN THE TELEPRONG NUMERA FON THE

50, A19

HE INDICATEG THAÏ NE WOULD CONTACT

CALLED

TO ADVISE HIDE HAD CLEAVER INTENTION 1S

CONTACT MI®

HE LATER LEARNED FROM TOTH

AND VAN CLEAVE

THAT THE COUTEST VAC MADE.

30: NO PRESUMCO THAT HE VOLLO HAVE NO FUNTIEP COUTACT WITH

VA: CLEAVE MOREVER, ME NONE ISTAREN, VAS CLEAVE PLACER IT

LEAST THO MORE TELEPYONE CALSS TO US FROG

KAT VIS

EXPENSES, AND DUE FIGM

ADVISED MIM TO CALL

LATHER THAN US. HIS GASPOREE 04

THESE OCCASIONS MAS THAT MA ALAZASY HAD CA 10TEADE0 TO MIEF

ADVISEC CUT THAT ME INUTES TO REE LO IFOR TO ALSO

THE LECAL

CALL VAS MADE TO CRUISE DO THAT VAN

CLEAVE WAS INC

IY THE COMPANY OF THE ASCENTING POLICE

OFFICIALSA MACH DE COULD CEILICE DO VE DO DESTRO

* AGAIN

TOLD HIM THE HE

COLLE REFORT TO ATLANTI®

1.36

---

## Page 75

PAGE $ OCD/L

494 CONFIDENTIAL

DO V41 SLEAUE TOLD US DUSTIG CUE OF THE AFOFENENTIONED

CONVERSATIONS THAT HE 16 ECGUESTED WITH LICHELL PEElE A 127400

FONDEN SPRINOS, GEORGIA, BAD TAT VE MAD RACE PRESORNED°

TITO TAXING SENILL TO RAGESTILE CIA PLA IN LATE JANUSSY

19TA FY OFFICINLS IN THE COCÀ COLA COMPANY, CONAL GARLES,

-A164

FLORIDA WITH ANICH VAN CLEAVE DIE CONINGS A COCSLLTING

CONIACT IN CORRECTIOE ITH COCA 00LA0D DECLESTY SYSTE 18

•ANGRITE WAY CLOAVE ADVISED LO TAT LE ALVER AGAIN WOULD

KAVE ESYTHING TO DO WITH HERITE RECALSE THE LATTER MND ACTED

SO DADLY PURISE THIS TRIPO NE TOLD US THAT KAFDOLL AAL

COMPUTER TO ARGENTING EFFICIALS THAT ME CASERELL WAS SCE

hOW CONNECICO WITH THE CRATRA CITALLIGEICE NORICT, AND CH

A FIRST INTO LADIS WITH DRILLS' COLDY, DORO VAN CLERGE TOLD

UC TACT UNITERS NO CEUZACHOTAD TO SUON & DEGREE THAT Y2

RETURNID TO THE US HITHOUT ACNEGLLA COUR NOTORY IS AGIT

•FUZZY CA THE CONTENTO GE THIS DISCUSSION, ELT LE HECALL

SONIAO TO THE EFFECT TRAP FEEDLE DOG LIVOLVED LITE HITCA

ROHINA AND SORCE AND VAN GLIA!: TEN AFFANG THAT HOORAL DICKT

MAHARANT T TOY TH BEY CITOILE.

11.31

---

## Page 76

PAGE 4 OCD/

1A9A CCDETDERTIIL

ALTICUSH LE GAVE LOT GET DEN CLEAVE DE PERSON, MAGED

UPON OUR TELLINCHE CONVERSÁTICIS CITE MIA VE APPEARLO TO US

AN INTALLIGEIT ID ACASONAELE LAGE dE ME SONAY TANT WO

CANUT PRODIDE A TORE DETAILED LOSCUTS OF OUR COSVERCATIONS

WIIM VAL CLEAVE, LUT AS WE MENTIONED LE REFCAENCCO TELECON

WE DID HOT PAYS NOICE CURING THE CONVERGATIONG KOF DID VE

FEEL IT MECEGGARY AT THE FINE TO CRITE A NONORMUDUR FOR THE

MECCRO CINCE VE EELIEVES THAT 10.6A5 A MORGAL, GLESIT COMPLET

PEFERRAL TO AROIME: OCD OFFICE..

22 IMPOST CL PY ?826S2

CONFIDE TIAL

4.30

---

## Page 77

12-27.00

murt Destis Corcotin Dluigtn

ATL-32-7'

13 rebrinry 1974

Attri:

$uo st Franch 'nasfirint)

chlet L

Flold sPrice

Acnata P aldont offico

Resuse of C ntacta - 1ti Stephen Von Glenve

it: 22

1127900

•I.:

Jrick llconcony,

Friclu offtce, enlled un 2l dongory 197l

to clve is a's urce cid on ctan

bsn: V00:1

mane ohi tlpei kerbatt. bothi

frso Atlsnta, Ccorclu.

Jock brioced lis n vaut

contastg slcn

Van Clenve and owrested e wirht

ant to c ntnet htn enacintoa.hifg

rctivitles jn Argentino.

At thot tine vo vero in the troorng or rovlns

tbe ofiico to tho priaont locatisr so did nat eontnet laa Clcavo tcttl

25 venunrs torks on thit

sinto

o colied, frntarledosoives ind birteey

erp ninód cle rengn do the cati.

Tlo tiasl

mientten

.EB.

Do yrur kino

tltch Kerbat

aml elsen thile hnse

anychisiw. ti do sath him?"

Co acatred

hli

i. 1:e

not hns: r1b018.

MI: 1:1T9

interint.

na n"t

rented taht:.

Van Corgin

aierentrd

09120

t: h1*

ifrlec

1'00

thiat artergon.

=orrivad ahe rtiy lep pa

117

it lo?es

At"ant:s

faita!:

P.1

"' 1nro 1:90 4;

ieilen

eyi te rloran lia.

-erl co ln ai iutom:

р..dr.

a.trt.10?11.0.n9t.

to lir=t

mic dctrist

Y At'pnto..Atter

mirinenlinai argorlemt.ln'1

ictare?

•i'rlit tion tlia

inti.itar..

traactlonr ne be cented to do nde try care oy soc pstl n be ravg

e meeo de-loat.y, lnerceire C6l len pincl drie f tlie

Aatores Moeees h heCrennern thel?

Samo se chis tricormation

Ca o rebreory tonl de rocalueia call pragbon toeve nt bopro lic

montet to mpirt in detoil mn a peent eufri ta Doiland, callfornis, iboje

ho hid moiscaly met vlth police nielelale and discirari tha jicorot

kldeaming.

the STA, cte.

te tald his this min vory intrrostiog but not

CLA busiress®

Ho l'an Cluere collid agaln on 25 Fehrur, 15Th to 10l 1s 1n on a

nelt tu the :s oy Arcintine police urricanlo dadi

Ve premred this intemation for diesarensdog ng

OA(5)°6. Tu rlev oi recent devetomuenta lo assure relther report should

bo disscsinatod. To carnlule your record sf cootacto, both renorto nia

enclosed es Ebolosurcs lioo's 2 and 3 (diorusios thel

they aill be used for tuture resorting or cancallod).

E 2 PODET CL TI 010650

4.35

---

## Page 78

14-00000

ATL 39-74

28 fabruang 1997%

5:

In the mantin, the Returnhy kidumping cong up to secury hia

timo intal if Februnry then ho

called to boy lie had some cennitivo

Infomation of defintes intreat is CTA.: Much trid vo corld not est

into hie africe the pollo Ing dey die do a lock of transpirertlin, ho

and he want ere to mur file.

To reluctantly naresd:

Into the

marine it mo piersary he cre do nur office onl predested in with tha

In Insanure lo, l foreh brattanthe tapo will be murd 1o

care it 1. traded its Inter dies,

int in the tronaertst

se ne muathle interert. bafres Leaving

3a10 he and

afruld he eight be tired by cosa rain on

1°9aren 969711

IMitly, wist epossentiy happound (and this in lio etory)

chief John Incan ni the

rolder Departant called

Von Messe presenting ble Abilatonese

No arkoo tin CIrave 40

come to hoodcuartora nul & so with Ancistant Chief tallire (ca

bellere thin lu the correct nare) on the durghy kidnapping?

Van Clears apparently exprenaed cancern tr the

Acclarent enter that meccinent cobera dù coco Coln Comany

residing, in the Atlinto ares night be turecta for the cuca

110002527*9

C. Tho Assletant Shief sareed and vent aloug sith Von

Cleave potifying, by phone, cobe orticiall

do Von Close hed not cleared this netion with his

Iocodiate superviuor at the Cosa Cola Company:

Apparently the phone colla vere cade vory lete in the

eveningg

f. "ben the lumnly lianemins van resolved.

Ven Cleve

wan colind 1n by hia bosg to ascrint for his nettena.

nonetly bas not been eate to tuatia ho cally and this

199 bo decinee of the mectiar, in

T's ganport thie

may be hts 19st iffleinl gotia for the Come Colo Carany.

41,35

---

## Page 79

28 februory 1974

To.

sino receivine the my sebrinry lons enil pron 088, he have

cheeks with.carten Ayose ond sob. perry.of the date rech are

malatur with van Closta ond him operat tono..

Perry: gift ried that

Von Cleave had parace the inforzation continga in Incircuro lo, l to

the Far.

Perry he a few ounar tithes to ney cbout den Clears thet

probably do not need to be espouted in thio necoruedu.

Concerning the future,

ve intend to be band to ranch shen

Ven Cleovo callo, le nedecoars, tall to hir on the thome ofey tincg

to see if ho boto the daes: then 18 ala sulza aleply tell hia to kave

benn told to sluy out of thio busincuo.

1779

(an gentor)

E 2 LENT CL BY 010Ç50

4.35

---

## Page 80

RET

SECRET

1-12-00

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLT

N0M-008-74

Chief, Domestle Colloction Divloton

Support Branch/OSS (Ryaa/Ames)

Chief.

Field Office

It Januory 1974

Mitchell L. WerBall, Lll

088-6-74, Decod & Semary 1974

Thank you for solorent. for the record, subject has made no

turther effort to contoet coyone in thia office; afallarly, vo

plen me artempts lo get in touch ulch his. Thus the matter

resta chare at this yolalas

Should he call again, lovever;

se will keap the advice contained in raterent in wind in dealing

with blo.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

4.34

# 3 IAPDET, O6 BY OLESSO

---

## Page 81

14-00000

ATTH &

F-12-79-00

099-44-74

8. January 1074

Chief, [riold 088ico

Mr.

Chief, Domestio Collection Diviaion (Jupport Hrach/038)

itchel! Lo Porbell, lll

1.

so bavo rovtered subjoct's 201 tile for anditional intoratios.

Bubjoot mi of intoront en this Agoney in 1999 and van granted a

POA in August of that yoor.

This was cancolled In Detobor 1959 when

nto intormation proved to

be of litele oslue and because

it wns

suspected 4e was unlog Agency funds to presoto his parsonal intorests.

io bạn unbsoquently attesptod

to paus binsold off as an Agency

omployee.

1s ia characterleod b: the Lilo as unscrupulona, a

"inoslor-deslor"

and & prosozer of arnilose schoa.

The

and lect

han buor under Invosilgation in 1073 ly bols the curucu so Alcohol.

Tobacco

and rimaras and tho United States Oistona Service for

activitlos rolatiod so pursible norcener activation in Abaco Island,

Bahama?.

Il the subject should contact your retice agala.

augiest you accopt obaterar inlomation

furthor comaltaoots

concorning Agency contact.

Subjoct is sull

do the sparopelato boss and 14 11 ontonly dual eul

charactor.

we cinue thia moranduo will provido you sith unalul

intoreniton encording this subject.

Itstle gou for bringiag 113

for l

1/b

¢*:

teress ar. (Contril)

# Files

PILA: 11-23819

4.33

END INDET CI. BY 010300

---

## Page 82

14-00000

12-77.00

chief,

Ficid Ofrica

Director, Domestie Costret terrico (Ca)

1-45546

Corsia

Li Jily I9T2

1-165762

1.

A-127900

I101"

Aton lier di lurano tele lore catenatori ig cory of

d:ae cato

"ar"

kilietti

1237. t0 doio1r:

it

rit,

mile.

1: 10 1.

wipatron

"t""

ritto.

ti. .....

1100100"1

rettite

ricolato

tot.

'.'"

......

littil ""

wie,

.::.

. ::

CrImentedele do Cartina Piedilandia

'. in 1116

Pausaint

C.aut:/119

60:

-elemente Gennaren)

1I05: 21200D

^?".

14.32

.....

---

## Page 83

SEOTET

OCC (John Greany):

F12. 18.00

NIM-056-71

1ộ March 1971

ATTN

Diroctor, Domestic Contact Service

John Greany (OCC)

Chief,

Field Office

Mitchell LIvingsten Herbell, Ju.

On marIve received a long distance call, presusably fron Powder

Springs, Georgle from subject, who le an old and unsavary contact of thile

Office dating Sroa 1959. Werbell has been Involved in a vartety of scrapes,

the latest of which concerned an abortive Invasion of laits which John Greany

mao very much concerned about a year or so ago.

Werbell stoted that the Department of Defense had Just revoked his

security clearance on grounds of Nerboll'a "frivolona behavior" in the Multian

caper. verbald stated that he intended to alight it to the Supreme Court, ag

ho had always kept us and other olecente of the US Governent inforbed con

cerning dovelopmonte in the lattian natter.

9. Herboll naked if there was onything that we could do for his in the

way of interceding for hia with the DOD, and ve inforned hin liuntly and In

no uncertain torna thut le was strictly on his orn, and wa could do nothing

lio then noked

tê 11 would bo worthuhile to subpoeno

be Inforned him that it wad up to his attomay to make such reconsendations.

Herbell seened to get the wessage, and then affered to keep un advdsed

regerding no alleged forthconing attempt on Haiti which is being afonsored. by

Rolando Manferrer, even though Masferrer ls curpently incarcerated in a fedoral

told. Norbell that if bowlahed to pass any iatoration along we

would accept it but under no circuastances should he attenyt to elleit any ,

Informntion on our behalf'. lle agreed that he would operate on this basio and

said he aight be in touch with us ogain.

In view of Herb-ll's record we felt that this Latest contact abould

be a matter of record and that Of should be informod of derelorante.

1ý. 3!

---

## Page 84

Mitch WerBell: Gunsmith to the 'Right' Si

By Morger Willines

9390990 Arra maenire.

PRENAIS

Boss. They.

eul and hantunne in the tradi.

•allego la line, and they londed

tout an

part hand, 1te

ap:pes a 1fle under lise ather.

Behand thiem, propollina himoell sie.

Efd1a46 alses 11911000186 0 00. icarnis

Mahol Dolinenlom Berlield 191

sune millant anthommenie alvd ont

al lio nation a landine des cloners ul

milary bragons and arrestatits.

Match Il and Giroll chatted lichtly

atuu! the aratine they wele carrying.

Thelr talher, remporanl; iminobilized

ur e traciurel hegl, punciured the cun.

certation

ton abosi the meupes audr, one of ins

moi choue produrte

Heaton

nar aillest 1idio d8' in si: montles."" l

said priudl!.

•Thase VC look ont ia

Turnlyseson cents

apiece they ener linele, sam. That's 1he

PeÄnonn"

ils de dur

lie webbrate srites the buller shettorer

the pentary taidod en the Wer le ll fir.

presel a aratidaer dinir 49. The dun

.:a: handeun, an Ingram Mie: 11.

epanned wish a fash and muz: le sur-

eusor." and becan liring il. The nuls.

: • bareli muser. and the only sound

war a meialler chick, followed by the

•: of the bullet and the pop ar ii hit

1 Paroit.

the allait aarecte alarai coolina.

ca on tall autoniatic and whippind oi!

"ci rhine inunds in boe srrond. Geol!

•raded the samie kind of demonsira.

o, with the crease. sun. a siandard

im oumartine cun and the anipi

In dies san bard lo the houer, 1er.

Dipsa lid

why the suppressor.

ressus called a silencer, a soeure.

ire lain.

Tis:

nir weapons alven be him by friendly

forces in

Vietnam, he-sald, and they

were chluped lo the stateg for display

In military museums.

Sint surprisingly,

Werkell has riften

Beon called an operative of

Central Intelligince Axenry, a charge

that angore him cnly sten le 1s 1

aler lun ichemently. It is not that

de bas onsthine against tha ClA. le

jast doosn'l, he says, happen lo

une of its boxe. !lis-paramilitary sork.

which consiste of adulsing and some.

directly assisting foreign sov.

erninenia, le done in the employ.

sal-dit-estimard,

patriotie:

•armeri.

The Wireh society?, The Min

virmien?

liunch of far-right Toxes

millionaires" WerBoll wurt s8y, other

than to insist that is. is not the CIA.

1l hardly matters, dit according ip

Werkell, it. is all In the sersice not enly

of trersom and anticommunism bue

nf the L'Sigovernient: he does not

suppli os advise or fight for regimes

noi bearina the Stale Department-sea

of approral. a boass percontage of his

merchandise gors directly to the Lis

Envernment, which distrihutes il to.its

own forces that need silent or exolle

#rapons.

The

balance

sold

to

frlendly governments, elthip dirertly

or 1hrouth the doral affiere of the "in.

dependent groupe Mle says he does mot

sell in inciduala, not even il they're

certifiadd antleominunials.

HorDell-takes potne.de point out that

1ie to no enelinary arme broker. Thalie.

Pure se mit one of thore abadowy figuren

who arell wraguns in hith siles at exor.

litant bricen ur who luke possession.of

contraband stupmenes on the hich gras.

"Nese anais adhered to a basic pol.

irs: There is only, one friend of the

Limed States in a given ares, and we

denl onig with that fricrid.

l'hat does. Werßell peddle. A rance

of firearins from machine guns to

desk.sired cannons. from the meanes!-

looking scapins to innerent lonking

sticks lal fire a bullet or

even a small rocker: an arras of rech.

mques -"sistems" he calls thim -

that will help an American soldier. or a

torrion army hold off insurgent forces,

and orcasionalis. his personal services.

There services, present lorßell at

mast aladons Serving as a com-

hatant in the armes forees of a foreign

antionts.against Cs.law. and WerBell

as anderstandably: relitant lo admit

having done so. He describes himself

in sach ferms as paramilitarg" ang

"adsiser." but arquaintances. suspe

no bas leph in the thick of the fichtio,

a number of lines. He may even hare

#kis, boit

Bornt, a bulletin

Peritrif!

puter.

m1.71-1e9

The PUI

subertine

1991

larer

4119

mischine

k11°1

ДОПИ:

150m

cartiel

rainival :

11081

---

## Page 85

14-00000

ristorat@riler. and il's.notch il

•ca cant bear the boll noise

TWaY

in acomber sliverari, sp for an prac

¡ical purposes the fring 1e soundies.

Drien, ibe loadest noise is shen the

builet bits home. If it hits a human. it

makes, a peculiar; thunking sound, like

wing a watermelon.

'Compulsise Warrior'

JITCH VERNELL sunds

pierely masterof-foes.

isikajabout firearma, and denit, and

with reason lie has boon in the mill.

iary liardaar business fop grars. and

he has enher heard or princelor

boin-lhe.thunking.aeicrmelon-round

many times- in balin America ard?

sanheart alria, in the Us.. armer

intero and an a paramilitary "adviser"'.

He la a compulsive warrior, an armed.

crusader lichting

HerBell te not alone In this occupa.

lion, bul ho practices it in a unique

manner. Must aoldiers. of fortune are

nolhing else, and they lise frum one

title mar lo the next, brawling and

Moonine tacir day throuch a touch and

sinancially unwarding life.

¡verBell, dis contrasi, is a husinerg

man who dabbles in military adven.

sut nnly when and as far as it suits

ana. Il. combat didat sitillare him. be

amulent parabe of ll. His business is

nader He serializes in the seapons

techniques

scary, which mas de muchly delard

as the fareful suppression' of coups

¿erne, rebellions and the like.

The way

K'erBell

operates,

this

mitans defending established regimes,

parne of them dictatorships, against

armed resolt. This political posture

tic? ons does not irouble HerBell, it

aleased dim. "I have no objection lo

dareatorship it it serves the interests of

ise rountrs." he says. Particularly if

ise lorra do those interests is from

arie iott: "Communism has no place in

the Miesiern Hemisphereor la

Ar.y

simisitiere. l am coally opposal. lo 18.

'and to the ipread of ideological gerina

and tith inat it bringa".

and again.

W'erBell's name

she nasa. The first labut of

Corporate Setup

TIE KIEADQUARTERS

work. the former Dobbs estate, is

or Highwos: 360 just outside of Pow-

de» Springs in a remore seclion ot

firm called Environmental Industries,

Inr.-a neal euphemism for a compony

dedicated to killing people: Ensiron-

Witchell I'orBell drees the part or his prizer ar

mria in Grorgio.

shepe he rakes spericlized lich:

arapons lor she l's. Arms and odder curterintr

hanimlied by some of the Fast's mast

prominent investment houses; he is its

WerBell sis children and put up with

his rather unusual sas of life. (When

He is aiso porsident.

called Milisary Armaments Ca, Inc;

and brause he is in Inader sprinas

Military Armaments is them; ron Be

hind Environmental Industrier

Bell say's, is "a third shadow of which

El. is a subsidiar " another tantalia-

ing hint of the cia.)

Military: Armaments may well' be a

Amprican: enterprise. Nobody

ni designing special púrpose weapons

• on such a scale. A cood deal of its de

he'd he wine for a sear or loir, and

A Military Profile

quip and quile sensible untilhe begins

ralking.about communism.or other.so

cial Issues. Me has the fare and bear.

ing ofia t'russian officer, an image li

cultlemed by scaring a musiache and

under federal lirerse: Silencers for ex-

ample, are outland bp the Sational.

Firams Arl, along with saved-oft

Morgune, submachine, runs and other

dresses in military clothing of indeter

minate prisin, and he embéllisties the

Image by salking in slightly stopint

his suppressors

Weakell must jay a sperlal tax al $500

phrase There is nithing phony in

this. Workell has a strong netachmont

1o. snapons and to surfare, anit tir far

Depariment.:The' T-men also check pe

riodicall lo spe that: ble

collection: of firearms over. 200 indi

vidual pieces properly, registered:

Apparenuly the market for suppresors.

is not very large because, acrording lo

VerBell, his firm is the only one au-

Idcas and scles tieg foster on in in.

grained part of his personality.

He comes.hs: both his-milliarishi ard

Imperial army. even. though he was

a citiren of both the. U.S, and Gussia

• VerBell will not disgusts the salesor. In those dais you could do thai."

profits. of stilitary Armaments, except

to say that, after two years of exten.

sive research and development (result.

the Bolsheriks: but before the rollage

of the carist regime he wisely seatri!

ing in a fai los of.a half million dol.

lars"), the company is now doing very

: well. le hag about 1a emplovees, includ.

ing four machinists who work under

the direction sl. Cordon Ingram, who

has charge of the desion operation and;

•forces stationed in the US: He ind

In this country for the rest of his life.

putting his carly medical trainina lu

use in cancer research.

whose name is on the Sodes Il subms-

mine Mitcb demon

Cent forms pround the corld.

. Brude kins in his

son, troll. The heroes were enly comperors, shila

Bertill recocereal from e leg injury.

vring in a draarement sore. Soon

do was bead of the department. and

g18,a0105 tha: lie went on his own.

in the adan, Herbed matel out

i did asener and then toriest his

mai publie totalone firm

"i alread

teen driftine into interracional PR.

HerBell says.

"wring my landly back.

mund, had tremendous contacts ir

Europe, and l moved into the

Far

in was millary. Herbell wont soy,

aut his busine i look on more

mure of what he calis a genpointoni"

faver,

Reture

lupe, lie was debbling in

Lath american dietroshipa, "Heinse

Pict poet wett

in

no were

wu sing churly with Mariara." lie midla

ulth a stan, "lor duncten was do kee,

Marathas puint."

From all this, even Herbell doesn't

know exhilly hose, canic a poissionaie

CancT Ma: 1019:10.657.

"I docided

in devote winterer linie i sull in

sctirides."

he 3355.

"At tira: i was sore ni e hobby, but

¡hin se beenee muy main drive in life.

When The word now mhere he 225-

tea's at the arsenal an his office mails

a''liords me a damned dood living.

ax the livine is not winy i do it."

The Hear. of lt

N1949. Willie anticommuntsin was

slab ones, albert a sayine holes.

Mebod parenairal the Dobbe patele.

No inalind coniemiary denign facili.

And

paperimenting with

ons re bei red had the besi chance 1l

communias talesces

in

so sma?, inderreicioped nollone di

renations!

who had hoth the marry and the cuts

so belo preserve them.

His first major paramitary opera.

Republic

during Die intis revolt, lle ros.

of

course, du le side of the goosenment,

shiel was fondline old allegedly Com.

munis: insurzenis: the Unierl Stares

was on in shilo, com. Herischi wound up

in the mids of the Miahtina. lie wond

the

Dominican

government

man to reach the Crama River, sche

af the major battle.

Elicworth Bunker, then 8.5. ambas

sador to the coreanization of American

Males, becand highly exertised over

weis en the come (leebell opposed

= cessallon 1i hostilities and escablis

reat of

runilion

angernment).

Ruskir

ressidered trying

Herball our of the muntry, bus solle.

in came of ll. Herbell's "independent

Trian

millionaires

or

Merleil sas already active in the

anti-Casiry morenient, aid he brought

to i a scare of dash and discipline that

the racias.

bickering bunch of Cuhan

exiles hod seldom seen. Perhaps his

major ADul-Costro exploit 8a4 2 5p6.

bose foray Inio Carnarioea, on Cuba's

southerr, coast.

The mission was lo

drip a swinner. appamally a 1p%, alf.

shure, and lo pick up the deraily of an

exilo leader. The boat, flying the Car.

fosterato

ling

on the radio antenna.

foundered in high seas, and the radins

Pasty was raplured The Cabans, the

Biory 2005, dil no: Ends astral do mala

of the bron Warkell, and he nod his

pals wound up desire o castro loat

wad spiritina come is anti Castralien

nui of the enunier hefore they leers.

celsin returnert to tie

Aniled 5:Btas

fully at the insram

model a r

merit of cans 1-g

Dens, dà

s05-ial ALCI-S 0

Arsamenis wid seesuma::

BUreS. Accuiding o daleu

the firma.

the

f9254m

shurier. Ushtog and copatie.

in more freper than oa

the market.

They are alor,

Beasty into a disgain 9

Armanrats madne len cam.

Besidens lo1863si134

г0p9S41S90+ 44719 11

sorist wilh mech ecarity ama

"i pran

a certain prulust that ls ani:

propio cuisi, there's doi

arms businmas. I don't too ani

Manhatants

house ripplyin: Eduer to tre

Bires.

Berkell in lig

Communers monore: 1. 40 a

10.t11: 1t.

Contrary for typiral opitals

Springe was nol name la

Herbell and his eblerarise

8n вaсe, Dlajо пО ПІк: 58:77

comfoually as poenible. 1o t

cinot moe fur arrackria: en.

D9e5, Arom Bine to lince: or

frelins, in Powder Sprinas. 19

clarrg, "The hell wiu! d?

sell ra s'm prepared lo parr

property 1f lary Goat 1ut9:1

18e Clings Bial Bailey deran

hoarvey.

There in a steads

BIS1LO69 196 6W7290099

trar

sell ao Aniereans.

malais tre

#70! 589 14

the shoo: he badet brro by

months.

that Ash.

"APid this

anfully qunals aranted here

I mas truete.

#N 850140450919019

jaceneel de newle plain

On triPsing 198 092-079 20 1.

---

## Page 86

touch and

by contrast, 18 8

basiness

cabbies

adita-

spes and

suits,

Mizn, be

Ing

11г:

not using therm in

in che

manierni

ra the rouhdy: deliaed

uneralre,

Angeraing erablished gegirare,

R 86R 102.

dirlatorshigio, ags.inet

Thie

duer

nul

troubie. WerBell, at

no

objectioe 10

*в 1838

of

ва''я.

Parlicularly 11

a19 in from

Communig

har no plare in

Heminhere

•090

15 lany

am :utally engered les i1..

inzo the:

Jame

ins lie of

Scab-

саг? rd

be seleriest in an alonie invo

op sans in de. ander 861l 018

willo:

a min)es.

18. un.rftain,

instad. allee the 112800;

ut charges araned him were drupped

Me als d'hots arresied were brougbt

• irioli Askrd ly a friend dor go es.

= nation.

Werkell replied Jauntily.

work i for

the

company,

sake care of you. 111 nover hess

20 1918

about it.

50 lar ho

as: Dedembiet.:

iNerBell kit' 1hr

*: sace bl The Allanta Constitutlos

ra a ablamentio captured enemy

epons tound. from Vietnam mas'de.

forie Base. 'Ylor.

• national eriumnin intierlurid

We: Hall ur die friende meant 1o

eintes Eriuis in the U.5

marily copies that. They aege euse.

manvierturing:

done

under federal béense: Silencers, for ex-

ample.

are. oullawrd. by the Sallunal

Firearms

Act,

along

with

sauredoff

aholçune,

submachine suns and other

vestiges of Prohibition

em

Kangland

#818.

To

manufacture

his

suppr

Werßell must pay a special lax.

3300

collreitd

DT

Departnert. The Timen also

pes.

10

DP-¢

ВОЛЮ

allentben

et; trear

200

indi-

vidual

pite

registered

Apparently

Sur suppressors.

in nut very larke

arterding 1o

Wer Bell,

his firtn

only one au

thoried to manufacture them.

VerBell

will not dist

the sales

pro!:!s

of Military

10

alleer

00W

has. charze of;the.design

a huse, name is on the

Alodel: 11 mibma-

chine

Eun

that soung?

Milati

demon-

trated on thr

tring

гводе.

"Collage Industry'

FAGRAS ViCKS In a wellegulpped

machine ship-lsb attarted to tho

mals hinuse on the estale, which Wer-

Bell liken to call the farni" WerBell's

'cétice in sert door to the shop. Ils wails

ne so loaded with wenpons that te la a

wonder they do not collapse.

There are

nives and spear suns and pistols and

rifles and machine gins,

dorens and

dorena'o! Len. some surchased, some

wus in combal sure presentedity the

altriatie recipients of WerBell'e

"counterinsurgeney: lerhniquea

I'cr Beil, who has abense.of humor.

calls. his' enterprise a "cotlage. indus

iry and likens hlinscit to "a country

dergerIcan tall ut of the living

ares annairs righi divin lo ihe étfice."

Lorairs Is Use domain ol his German

mile

Mildezard.

s platart,

tray bnirrd woman

who has borne

altisaled by wearine a rusiarde 2i5

orcasionally

monrole.

Hie

ofien

dresses In bulltary clothing of iadeter

minate origin. and he embeilishes the

imare by talking in slichir clipped

sentences

peppered

with

milicar?

phrases. There is nothing phoar in

this

HerBell has a strong alachien.

lo weapons and to warfare, and he has

been around them so long that the

ideas and styles they foster are an 1r

grained part of his personalits.

Belone long

dabotina in

min American dictatonfies.

"Hilore

Eidel cock over in Cila in were

Forting closely brich Iniiia" tie addle

mil a pria, Our function sas to leep

Batsta in poser, altare ihe cs.

goverament was loshir: formalls on

Pided at that point."

Trom all this, even WerBel! dra's

ler excelly bos, came a passantin.

He comes by brith his militaria: Bret

hio antiremunlain dieneally. His

tather was an offeer in. the Kurslin

Imperial

army, even

though he as

born in the

Crited States. "li was a

artivitry"

ise

"Al first le wos sors of. a habt;, Mei

Pra il became my mais disse da inte

tricky situation," says Stilch. "He was

a eitizen of botb the U.S.

and Rissis

la those days you rould do thai."

The elder

WerBell foughe acainst

the Bolsheriks, but brfore the collape

les ai lie arernal on his office mails

-'allords me a damnid zund ilez.

Rui the living is noi mai ira 1o."

The Hears of l!

of the crarist regime he wiscis surca

an ,appoiniment.

as liaison o!fiert bi

tween

the. Russian and

Ameritan

forrpe stationed in the

us. Heliurd.

auti a hobby, illes e paging hoblis.

Me: Bals Durchared the irohe retair.

In this couniry for the ren ol his lite.

la installad rudimentary desen far:

putting his early medical trainin. 4o

tex

and beten exprrar ntine

with

rase in cancer. research:

1:0.512.

A: lezary: trans feiher

is sich's.

man he briteund had Wie tout chane! of

barely

disquised arisceralic

sympa.

Freienans Commurs taxiciora In

1hles.

le has

boeni quoted as usinu.

the small, underderelagel netiara ol

"Communism

2n a substituiton d

Aria and Latin Ameria. "I Postied

pessant dictathlo over the ariatra car in rentenurny.

tisr

prefer

the

arletsersry."

mary pratilem siar a tar: al Gegtli in

without quention an mitise con turpris.

ingly, bis elite la compused of superga.

of the eneiny, and yout! ein the dieht"

triots and military sen

Trai's a lot ol bull The bril siay le

Sitebell WerBell was born in Pent

ger weir bearts, ll theyre the enco.

nylvasia..

shortly aller his

Rustiarr

is la shoot em

and

ihr hears

American tather and bis.Scoltish.bom

oit"

mother

arrived in the U'S. at the end

While he experimented with woar

of World War I. His parents trajeled a

paquietly, In

prold froblems rich

Rood

deal, here and abroad, and sitth

so todesaleiler Bati proecated dith

traveled with them, picklos, jo his rou.

Lis personal brand of cropolitics.

cation as he merit. He 20% a degre is

ado himaeli avaiable to anticommu-

jourmalIAr

from

the

U'niersits;

o!

zisi manes that marini tcio in light-

pennsslvania: In Morid War lt'te

ai ull one bard of invardonte er en-

joined the O5S, and sersed with aurii

ciher.

In

the

proress.

he dreamo.

behind Japanese lines En China, rising

•ferndis with a number nt latin diner.

lo the ranke of captain ánd acquirinz a

icay political Atroramn.

They Bern

Lesle for quertilla lipe marfare ho

would never los.

WerBell mosed to Atlanta chemis.

after the'mar and went to wo:à in ad-

cano tho tell as tary die sisaut 11.

stahle.

antire mmunist

azes, especially paris rezimis, 2n1

brains, berare

hiadly ercecioad cier

rievo on the condle (Werbel! opposed

a messation. of hostiles and establish

costition

Bunten

coniklaier

81;

• HerBell out of the contry, bu: antho

Ind camo di i. Werirts independent

milliomaires et

chateversam in that.

Perlondt war aireody ortler is the

le raton. hockering buert de Citrans

exiles hor seléom gern. Perhaas hir

major anti-Congo capluit mass speed.

bial foroy inio Canariora, un Cubin

southern

roast.

The mision sas lo

drin a swiminer, apparcally 2903, olt.

shote. and to piel up the family nó en

exile lender. The buai livinithe Con-

federair

Mas on lae radio antenna.

Inundored inhich aras. aort the raidiag

party

waa caplorer. The Culass, 15.e

Mary. 196.

al the brand er Bell, and de ard his

pola couad 8p stealing i Cralen. boa2

and spiritine anme

il anteilastronten

nut of the couniry before ehry phom.

wlven resurned in the bailed Sialek.

Vicinam Superhawl

ils atlondlon.de Southeadt Acta. Me

Is.

ся скласу, В ПОрИНо%

nam, and vould so happy li the U.S.

werr

airo dohtias communises in all

ils neighbaring countritg.

Thalland.

"working

Hle wos ta

clurely

with the

suprome command," for monthe, pre

moline the aales of his tragon art

litre

surieillance equipment and siche v-

sion.eguipment. sluft that lots you sur.

nrise the hell, out of

the

hartaita"

Did be dn ang ficheine hinweil? Wer.

Beil chuckies. "l aint saogerad le be

shotina the stuff. just demorstrating

hriw is shoot-12."

There yeare arn, lorbeil's weapons

husiness berame promising erwuch for

him en an intre le full time: 1is cruar

leéd a firm called Sinnier (for Stuchea

AMENANTER STARKE

men!.

Communis sorry na

Hal na

man la mon an gerin die sco

lo win it

Castray lo ereredi spirien. For

Sprliza

Werilell ein

in lags, stayo da sicai leam Che

iroy+5y 4518

sauce: 1000919990

Pector 1o lerner Sottnen World

claren,

"Thur

He dons mal auiten ipom torgio

however. There le a pirad; 1g-ae

visitore and ausleitare, deresalio?

well no Anerdoni A len anges

VerBall'e snoiados da dis tirie

Ernant

1 ans there.

% =:

Acular 811500. 11959900 8e019 1sort

Departiaent a les topes part.

coedinó so Werkeli, ne said, The t

Lions

of the forcien

Delictet

nif

Unlend Stater are Die Sunigrng ol

Siale Department in l'acturae.n.

sistchell

Werke!!

j'en

Springs.

vire Beifa

swinhbuckling. les kel!

The so

presene polire de that : uarer 1i2h

shooty complesely. l'erin

Iraidly.

Con DiwayAde 008+84199918199

hinsel!. seanotlle 3908 150013010

dependers prosp" mared 09.

A.: 710. A:19910 S-06448

пдx: 6::-2.8941999.01.

---

## Page 87

2-6 EL S

CONEIDEYTTAL 231534 DOG SO CITA CANSACISI

CONTACTS/ MIAMI

FROM

24693

14 CHE 4046146

1,81100

HEM NURSECTE HITCHELL LAGEMONTON MOEP 22 ME. ATLANTA

IS YCETIOVE3

IN A SUAGHUNOGON POSTO METICLE TOMAN 1E CONGUGIIOG GIOM MICHEO

•BOVE SOLO DICELIA-GORDONO -ZARATA ROSA DESOLAG SENO 30 1017034

MA, ONEASEY SLOGESTO THAT TURNAID, DE POSGIOG 157 POURAGE VITA

NERBELL.

¢ 0

MAD EAT!AL

F 11

4.45

---

## Page 88

SEGRET

-12-79.00

Am, Droole, Damette Contace Comico

chief, went piola orried

15 May 1969

C01-034-69

anding Infomation on lechell

I. Wartel

On 35 lay 1969, Spectal Agent Dave Plowen, Local OfT reprocentative,

Bar, volted the Mant field Orrico to soliett any Information se Rigat

have recording Mitcholl L. Verbell who apparentiy to undergoing a security

elosrance choes an the result of presently bolag employed by a conger

vith o corersant contract:

Herbell vas an unsolicited contout of thia offico besinaing in

1939 and he roaches pens astoriety in Soveabor 3957 as a rosuit of bia.

sovolyment la the lolando Masteror trlal to cumention wich cha abortivo

Politan Lavaston, Jolin Oreangy, OSa vae in Pend at tha tira lo overage

Aganey Intorests;

Plown In contacting ober la Coversent agencies Localiy

inaluang too us Attorony a onrico auschou received on indication that CIA

tot intornisca ou liarbola; ear Flossan's violt to too Bleat Fiali Orrlee.

1t tu indicaral to Flowm, sto do knost personally by coveral

perbars if this sunff, tani sa tam of Varkáld and that on stenaion l

lad mento insolicied inmation. It me supeated, herever, that

Plonsen direct Alo

request offletally buried chamale via daI's agary

1151300 0891905 18 Vestlatea

of locat CLA Saarity.

Ero lo for bockeror cas la soles forested as to mastion

---

## Page 89

.l.€

Hil(-

F12-79.00

Juda 2257

A 122900

218. 90464.040 24-46 coe9 0H 20125 E7 Sed seco tola tae

12:0xGazrc?:=

ao sao 2aa corares a Courat

Mo soteral colegia

o posse das:

Ferre crere tes

148

Meron moderado do 1o 0e dos dog

Answived

florie- Acuised

Certae li

misc 3=

rig: 1.1

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEN PAGGRAM

---

## Page 90

-t

F12-79-00

Dirator, Donatio Contact Carvice

a parch 2967

N04-086-67

Mitchel Lo lorol 11 127900

'Io sorbell cared the man offson on 23 mir 61 and eton cose lat

Bert Comestes eus not in, pavlaod the escretary that the faderal chance

matt hun hei bem droy

pod. No have not earind this. Ma do no

Intend 80 mun on catacts with hin for tas sten boing as leant.

2. Plazao coleo Joha Oreany of the cretco os to General Corncos

of chlo covalores sad Elva va vesteror rsoom:

Bove as lo cur futuro relattons vita teriall:

4.23

81: -ai 19r

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1904

CIA HISTONICAL NEVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 91

512-79-00

Direstor, Dissollo contact Berrloo

Chief, Hans 71018-015100

2. Mered 1968

Dutcholl In Herball

4127800

2o Tou vill recall that Job Groanay of the Office of Coneral Councel

ma 1a. Heat for angrel dovo ta comection vich tho redaral ears vending

entnat subjoet. Kertoll ven indictod on federal conspirery charges erilne

out of the abortivo timoton strengt of Baits a abort time ago.

2. Followtas the lodierrent bordala carton un and inatess enge to

use to bo tmorvisad on nestonide my through station MSs-cy 1a Atiento."

No salled tary Hecres and anbed hin to saltor local covorage, and ta

covered the me stations for a perlad of soveral days. bertell Nia not

argear on a national boosus, but tarry decros informed un that he asa

oper on a to starte taped organt on einistry, Dias AM. roleract

coly. Vertoli sala bo could, la do muleo:

mann a aitizens errust of

did."

Anny sald aust bo Olday boltava that ste station sook bia state

3. Persoli men also laterioral ba "Foo Allonta Cons-lterion", sad:

"Constitution" of 23 Pos 6% 1a clea

Hertal so quoted concenatay the Induras.

Vola you alongn pous tho clovo to Jets arcotay.. You dicht 1880r

a coveracion pror to rolling us. morall cuted hua in the mom fables

La sar coiteriottoo.

he here has m nuchor content with tarli.

as stales

d: 22.

APPROVED FOR DELEASE 1694

CIA EESIOTICAL REVIEW MACCANN

---

## Page 92

F-12-79-00

SEGRET

THE 2IA30Z CATECONTACISTALANL 1714

CONTACTSA

ATTNE

SUBJECTS ALLEGED ASSASSISATION ATTORT

REPE A. SIAMI 1910

19 9240

JILCONS OF EI FES AND 23 FER 67

MITCHELL VEI CCEL. CALLED DANT GONZALES YESTERDGY TO AOVISE

TMAT ME NAD RECLIVED TOO PHONG CALLS PHON CHAL SHAN EXMRESCING

CONCERN OLD INE. FACE INAT MO DUE MAD CONTACIED KER PUR-OLTAILS

CUNCENNING THE ALICUSE ASGASGILÁTION ATTERPT RETURNED 80. 40.

124254

MIARY 1710O URAY STATEO THAT UNLESS ME MEAND ROOS DONGNODY CAPROLATELY,

HE SOULO TARE HIS LAFORCATIO: TO THE SOURANOR ER CALIFORSLA 04

• THE MORNING DE. 25 SEE 07O DA CURRENDLY HAVE AN ADORIES FOR CHAYE

384

GOREN CARNUROT DRIVE, BEVERLY MILLA, 12LS3 276-49240

1.321

APPROVED FOR MELBASE 28/64

CIA NESTORIGAL

REVIER PASCRAT

---

## Page 93

Contrid

F-12-79.00

STARE

DIA, 29 Jobruary 1961

savach Mitchell Hartall/Chee Ory

A 127 900

uлв3-67-54

B- 61-41

Cope, i/ del facket!

1/.20

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HSTORICAL REVEN FROGRAM

---

## Page 94

F12-79.00

SECRETS

20I33EZ CITE CONTACTS/MIAMS 1710

CONTACTSA

ATIN!:

FROND

A 122900

1. VE HAVE RECEIVED A MUSE UNUSUAL PHONE CALL FRON ALICHELL

VERDELL, PODDER SPRINGS, DECRIG, DETAILS OF WILCH FOLLONS

VENGELL IS A SOLDIER OF SORTUNE TYPE UNO MAS BEEN IN

ÖCCASIONAL CONTACT FITH THIS CERICE, OF HIS OON VOLITION GINCE 85590

VRALE AN UNSAVORY CHAICTER, PUCH GE THE INFONSATION HE HAS

FURNISKED HAS PROVEO TRUE. HE FUNISHED COPPLETE DETAILS ON THE

RECENT KAISSAN INVASION PLAY. INS PHONE CALL WAS RECLUVED BY BART

SOUZALES PRO NOO AT LOO RECHS ON IS FRASUANKS NS STATED THAT HE HAD.

JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL EROR CHAL BRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO AUDRESS

(PHONE 274-49224

Tie B.67-54

3O GRAY STATED THAT NE NAO DEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE

POSSIBLE ASSACCINATION IN THE U,SO DE A CLOSE PELATIVE, POSSIDLY.

A AGORNER OR SON, OF A MIDDLE-LAST RULER, WITHTN THE NEXT LO DAYS.

NO DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR Or 3H0A

HE DAS. ASPHOACHED. GAGY TOCO FERBELL THAT HE DID NOT SANT

TO SET INVOLVSO IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGNT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL.

B0254 (Chiet Any)

4: 1%

AFPROVED FOR DELEASE 1994

CIA NISTORICAL REVEN FROCKAM

---

## Page 95

PAGE 2 CONTACISAMIAEI 1TIE

REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED VERZELL FOR ADVICES WER

BELL ADVISED CRAY

TO INFORM THE FBI IN LOS ANSELES, BUT BRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.

VERBELL THEN ASKED GROY LP ME YOULD BS MILLINO TO TALRIGITH A

MEIBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGREED. GERBELL TOLD GRAY TMAT 10 A

REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACILO HUA, VERBELL'S MATE VOULD BE

USEO AS ENTREE.

THL ABOVE SOURCE LIRL SOMENING OUS OP THE GRADIAN NEONTS O

BUT 1 DIO MEET A CHEI GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACTIS

HOUSE IN 1562, SOME DETAILS OF WHICH ANE COMTERRED IN COASSIS6OU

AND ODA<S) S998 DATES 15 DEC 620

BRAY IS A MOTORIOUS NOOULUR

AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE SEEN APPPOACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

SO PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SLE FIT,

---

## Page 96

F12-09:01

6. 61

ARONTY COM

1610-2A

Doomarro

LONEL CEIL CUSTACTSIELANE 1E62

TUTO PRIORITY JANAVE CURECTOR:

PHIURITY CONTACTSI

ATTNE INT DIV (HELLER)

COUNTRYS MAILI

SUBJECTS MINE 10796 - PROPOSEU ALVASION CANCELLED

DOL

* 23 NCY 66 AND FARLIER

ACO

89--23 NOV 66

REF

LA GIRL C-D66-32651

Kan 23: 1220 PM 76

C63

RITCHEL i A 122900

PONDER SPMINGS ANGLONLILA

USE NATIONOL, SULDERE OF FORTUNE TYPE SUIN STUE

EXPLEILACL IN LATES AUCRICA, ME IS CLOSELY ASSOCLATED

KLIN SOLANDO SANELANCH

THIS ACHONI NAS OLVILUPED DEHAVY ALERESENTAGIVE ASSIUNLO TO THE

OFFICE OF PREPARATION I

DURTIS THE NIGHT OF ZO SOV GOA DICISION HAS RENCHED TO CALL OFF

THE PROPUSED SAVAGON OF ATE OY THE GHOUP DRONSONCE DE FOLANDO

EINSTERREND. THE SAVAGION 1S OF ASCERINETELY.

FATALA GLAD DAPTIST, CORDROES? INO COLONEL AGNE CLEOTY MAUS

BERE AROUND KATA PROPERLA MUCH NOG CAUSED CONCUBION AND

DISORSANILATIOI

NAVE PULLED QUE AND CILITARY GUISE SAPOLEDA SVILLADOISEO (EIC), A

CUBA MATIONAL AUD ALLEGLO MILITARY CAPONTO NAS NSTUNRE BECAUSE OF

DISSENSION IN THE CAGET A

•3. 1: 1S DELIEVLO DUNE DODO OCVERAMUNT AGENCIES HAVE ISFILERATED

TH: HOVERENT AND TE LEAVENG FEAR THAT ALL GEAPONS AND EGUIPMENT

4.18

END OF REPOZI.

4O C/OS DARPOLO CONZALLO PLEADS PREPARE MARO COPS IN

HEADQUARTERS.

67

AY MOVED FOR BELEASE 1908

CIA MISTORICAL REVEN FROGE

RAM

---

## Page 97

112.79-00

2229182 CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1658

PRIORIT: CONTACTSA

ATTAR INT PLY CELER A LOZIN

COUNTATE MAITI

PECTE MINI TOTE TALE MORE, ENVASIOV/PONTES CHANGE

or PLANE:

• 001

ACC

Ze NOV 66

....

paranoi

--22 NaV 6t

PITCHELL Le VERSEL

A 127900

PONDER SPAINOS, GEOPULA

VOS• NATIONAL, SOLDIÇA OF FORTUNE TYPE WITN VIDE

S.NTV

EXPERTEICE IN LATIN AARRICAD HL 1S CLOSELY ASSOCIATED

&IIN ROLANDO. MASHERIEN

GENIE EZPORT VAS DEVELOPLO SY A NAVY AEPILSERTATIVE ASSIUNCO TO

THE OFFICE OF PREPARATION ?

Mộ 9F

& NOV AS LA SPITE OF GULAPREAD PRESS REPORTS, NO

INVASION OF KEITE HAS TATEN FLACE.

ROLANDO CANSTEROLE, ROUGU DID IS SPONSORING THE ALLEUED

INVASION, MAS ELLA TELLING QUORE LXTLES THAT HIS GROUP NAS SECURED

THE AIRPORT AT PORT-DL-PALS ANO THRY SHOULD BE PREPAREO TO LEAVE

AT ANY TATE.

4:17

SO MASFLAREA HAS GIVES UP TAG DOEA OF MOVING ALG URGUP, WHICH

CONSISTS OF APPIOXIFATELY SEA CUJANS AND I0& HAITIANS, BY BOAT AID

1S TRYING TO MANE IRGAUCEMENIS FOI CHANTERINO LLEVEN ALNCHAFT,

AFFIN

VEC FOR MELEASE 1004

CIA MSTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

13, 1

---

## Page 98

INCLUDLIASOXE DE-JOSÉ ONE DE TAE DO-3'5 NOULO CARMY COLONEL ALME "

ELEONO, MASFERRER, AND FATALE JEAN BATISTE UrONGES•

INE MAN RUDSON IS IO SE UELO TO CARRY PART OF THE VEAPONS.

THE TASFLARER SROLP 1S DELL ARELD AND HAS PLENCY OF USAMONSO THEY

HAVE THREE TONS OF C-S DYNAMITL, AND ALSO HAVS SOME C-E AND C-40

3• THE MENRLEITA II VILL CARRY PHOTOGRAPHERS.

GO IN SPITE OF THE ANOVE I SELIEVE THAT THE INVASION" IS A

FARCE AND IS FALLINS APARTO PASFERRER IS MERELY TRYING TO COVER UP

FOR THE FUNDS ME MAS RECLIVEO FOR THE INVASION. IT IS DELIEVED

THAT KASFERRER S LIFE VILL DE DAMONT IV HE DUES NOT MAXE SOME

OSTENSTOLE EFFORT-

END OF REPORT

CASO B. GONZALES.

PLEASE PREPARE HAND COPY IN HEADSÜARTERS.

BT.

CC %

SUBJECT LINE FIRST PONTION AFTER CINI NUMOR SALD READ " FALSE

NECORTUPOF INVASTON/-:

AVE PARA O LINE

RT SNLD REA

REAL "THAT RASFERNSAS LIFE WILL DE IN DANGER 1P*

Cher

1072:1

---

## Page 99

APPROVED FOM MEABAO& 10K

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

F- 12-79-00

CONTACISAL

ATINO TAT DIV CALTLA)

COUNTRYS

MALIL/DUMINICAN REFUSLIC/BAHARA

SUBJECIS MINI LOUSS • PLANNIO INVASION OF MALTA GELWEEN

3- 13 NCV 66

DỘI

: ACO

C&S

28 OCt 66

-**| NOV 66

RES::: DOS CASE 415,00 LA CIAL C-D66-52551

"ATENEAL LE DENSELL

A 122900

PONDER PROTO AZERGIA

0.30 NATTOVAL SIN CIDS TRAVEL EXPERLENCE IN LATINA

AMERICAS ME SPLANO SUME SPANISH, AND MAS RANY SOCIAL

AND BUSINLOS CONTACIS LA THE DOMISICAL ALFUELICE

CINIS REPORT JAS DEVELOPSO OY A NAVY NEPRESENTATAVE ASSI NEO

TO THE OFFICE OF PREPARACICIO)

1. ON 28 OCT C6 1 SPOKE CITA ROLANDO CHASFERRESO ROJAS, A

CLUAS EXILE, AND DE TOLDEL CHAT NE LAS DASANTERO A MILITASY

FORCE DE APPROXIAAIRLI 200 MON TO INVADE MAITIO THE LEVASION FORCE

CONSISTS DE QUURO AND MALTERG EXALCO RESIDIDO Si THE LOSOR THE

BAMANA, AND TRE DOLINICAR ALPUSLIGA THE LEVASION WILL FRODABLY:

CE LAUNCHRO FROR THE COMUNICO REPUBLIC SOMETIRE OCTWEEN S AND 1S

NOVERDER AND THE TANGET AS PORT-AU-PRINCEA THE LEVASION FORCE

WILL STRIKE IN THE LASLY RUSG-OF TNE MORNING SALRUTEPA 17 IS

WELL ARMEO, AND WILL KOWS ALA COVER; THE FRESIOLATIAL PALACE

DILL DE LORULE.

4:16

2O MASFERALA CIATO TUSO COCEDE LO CANIELLGLODO MANTEAS

CONSUL LA RIADA, FLORALA, LS AGARE OF THE INVAGRON, BUT SE DAS

NO ANO-LEDES DE THA LISAGAGO CARCO GAGIMILIEN iS PREOCARLE SE

HAITI INFORMINA PRESIDENT COUGALILAD THAT TAR LEVASIOS CAN DE

RETUR: TO THE LOSO UN EMULÓ ANÖ ML HAS MALiG GTH GASFERREN

THAT DE DUVALIEN AGRILO dO jE MUY- OSE, itladala alib MECElVE

---

## Page 100

PASFERKLA TOLD RE TADO IN SAVAGIOS WILL TANL FLACE IN ANY

EVENT ANU THE SASHORERO LE MEGANSO, SOUL DE USED TO FURTNER.

SUPPORI THE INVASIJA.

PASTENHER STAILE INAT NEALT ELIMIN TAL PAST 10 LAYS WITH

SEVERAL DISSIDENI FAITIAN EARS OFFICERS AND HE HAG RECEINCO TICIN

SUPPORT. IME MAILAN ABMY SIFICENS TOLD MANFERNER INAT THEY

WOULD REVOLT AS SOÓN AS INFORMED THAT THE INVASION HAD CONFENGED.

THEY DO NOT KNOW THHT THE TANGET WILL DE PORT-AU-PRICHCES INEY

DELIVE THAT IT WILL DC IN THE CAY MALTIEN ANCA.

30.

MAUPERALS STATED THAT HE VAS CONFIDENT THAT THE INVASION

WILL SUCCEED: AND IF SUCCESSFUL, FATHER JEAN BAPTISTE (GEORGES)

WOULD DE APPOINTED PROVISIUNAL PRESIDENTO

MASERACK STATED THAT

COLONEL RENE (LEONS, MASTIAN EXILE, VILL FARTICIPATS IN THE

INVASION. END OF REPORT.

6. C/OS BOT GONZALESE

PALPARE HAND COPY IN HEADUGUARTENS

PLEASE.

BT

Lists buil

99/5/11

-155:/11

---

## Page 101

F-12-79-00

4215:

DE

1312/26

4151934

INT XXXXX

91314703

9T

АЛАХХ"

ZERO THREE SEVEN VA

Ter 142.

WA CITE MIAN. 1220

ATTN:

INTERNATIONAL DIS SCORANTO

COUNTRY:

SUATIONLA

SUNNECTS

MIOL 00714:

a MANSO Fe

NGY.

p01: 17 JAN E6

AC01 0012 UNI 6E.

REAS CIRL C-CC5-62573

& COUP DEETAT PLANNTE

en 13 11 23 1 33

#.127900

LE LATIE AFENICEA

X7IO PEPORT DAN CEU 16800 11 : 10ON REPARGEUTATIVE A5010328 9

• THE DIFICE OF MOERGENT:"-OD

TODER POESIENT APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1094*

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRARI

4.14

---

## Page 102

CONCES NENE PLASEN

15 SAN 1CO YDIOGIAN DOLO AN INGO DE FRE COLE MAS GOT CAREREO SUR D9

1S JUANY, IT VOLLO DE CANCEROS AS 1OUS-CC

1O05EN4L ARLASETE

2. YOSGRAS MONES HOT TELL NI THE ARESOR INE BADIVIONALS

•LEADING THE COUPO

SIT CIETEO TARO CALL OF THE ARARO FORCES VILL

BE UNVOLVED."

EGO OF SEPORT®

C/58:

HAND CONY TO DE PREPARED

BY MEADQUARTSIG

4.14

CEN IC8S CONANO SOTOVALA SOL ATUE COUP DIETAD 12 JAS 66 82 J0S S6

IRL

C DC 3:32574

Drentre dara Posan cancios cLonata 0s 44710

AMLEICA SPANISH

DONDE CO DA CO LOUELITO Y0160099 ENERO

COLODOL TURIGUE PORALIA IS GES DE COUR SCT CARETEO 1S BASURES

NOT THEL CE DE GONZALES

UT

---

## Page 103

12-74-00

i'"

1.1',

0l. 2952/53

ZNY PXXXX

POA21N3Z

DT

XXXX!

ZERO ONE 3IX VA

se ford.

PHAGALTY DACED IN DES

ATTIE: L

RUSSED 5

OREs AIM 077-35:25 17.020

MICHELL POT

127900

VARACERO/HAVEDA AGAO DUDSCING PONDERERO AGGAE CONTIONOR STREET

CASINO TO

we arreper shedded

Rare in ropes so tolle

Mire cald to one alietric Pland rocklaktin

ELILTTICLTY TO LAVATOR

16111001124

SURITY. INS PETCATO!

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA EISTURICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 104

RUAS AS FOR COLLAR DE AGLE AGORANGE DY CRIADO NO CHAGATION

MISSioN 1a Suicipal

ATTERPT ON TAL ALICO DO PLANT WILL DE TO SILL CUANDS AND

PEALTRATE ARRA FOLLASERO GRICH THEY VIUL SLOS LE KEY SQUEPNLUT.

4O PERDELL SATO THAT RECE ALSO ALLEGEOLY MAS A

GROUP IN CUSA AT- PRESENT POR THE PUNZOSE OF ASGASSIMATING FIDEL

CASTRUS

S PLEACE MAGOLE AOVE DEPYOU SEEDITO PILE NONOEL 15%

NOTONICUS CON MAM AND COLEEEECE FORTUNA TYNGO CRES GONDENSALO

09R2L7A3620

OrN 120s

_ TONE CASTRO DIO COA GO 17 DAC OS MITCHCLL VERRELL

BART CONCAURE A QUAR VARANETO DOGENAEE DANUATE DOT MOSSEULE

UNABLE DO AO IOTATION MACARIE A COR CONSIOLNED UNDELINGLE

1/. 12

---

## Page 105

14-00000

F. 81615

Office Memorandim • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

Chituf, Cuntout. Divic on

Indct : Branch

chic; Mant Field Officu

DATE: 2. MuL 1059

A- 81615

BỤBJECT:

Cored Coleo, Florida

1..

In the eventor of 2% July 1019 I recived a tolephone suit from cungect,

is hnd been caven my mons ind oddronn ty rother Beibeint of the

confunley in scrucilton with the gnatellity or hia

astatue nong date information

matering the merced torerdsni; altens of Betlote De the us.

2.

warhout thirtiatod that hooponte dread anount of hilo tina ta thc

Winthloen Regiolie nod hed ostrely chee noontation rich terdersor the coveii

coat, and ting vith Cenernl jore Pourasa, Ho ctntand to hove deck & rocker member

al the 066 with corvice in chine thall. Farbolt a coldle of torter bage

who veero a macede, drives e doncodealone, Corbo lcoul abtenctive blonde Stil

Friend, maid

in: a Dil Spender.

sistinen laytog in Georgine

3.

Barbell told me that his ringiple

source of Incone is it dealine with

Canen pesong aud Cold that he

1o arbortitod ta the booiricos with a john liplo of

Leo incolos, a jone cuotel ano forcely played wilh tee dimy Border and Jan

Guruct bondo.

i.

Lipto 0100 centes to bore mona neuver of 086 durine Wo, sexylns in

Ilpio me imaily engaged da moing Long.

dualentan shed, and too lageros during n

10n on the time Than with the trage

Ni?bell core me one Intcamation on boglota's please, Pick in boardlay

mad iwatched cord other narcinat indoration which dated for

wendre, alchouch in my epinion littoe rodence can be geared in anthias to gaye.

I: 1c have to evaluato mab toroeld's notives are in concoction rich his destr

to furnisl

inroution regardine Bubioba, to was

but if Coreared thrt do Has 4160

to

Ish:

for Inforatton, throwing out e minice of mentions concerning

Milton: Curtaco Aotal, reportedly regaily to hose boon Mirchased by Chilian

The menthouse repritedly has been complately

Mita pandause suito

nas boch marted to id

tailata's Intendad handguarters once ha

arrives in the US.

AiL 0e this nes bock mitten crout th the gassin untunes

ni. stie

Inesench as Harickd inc ay. cane rad

phone nudier, propotty little des

ve tone to provent an bobbine in touch with no from thee to time,

contact

vill not te Initiciod by me cheont by directin.

The basic purpose or this nemo

is for the moron.

7T0: an

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

BESTOWEE

---

## Page 106

(When Filled int:

PROCESS SHETTOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIFID USE ONIY

OR MIADO!

CASF

NUMBER-

SUME ONI!

NUMBIR

10756

roposed saveston cancell

Balti

G CONIAC Ltdame Tule. Oigonuation, Address

Mitcholl he Marbell

Pointer Sprlago, Goorste

11 SOUNCI. (dame:

lila: Orgonisation,

120

220DD

1

1206

1221

1/901266

000102 0040

if gene ai

INDIGIONAI PIC

20-400

VitAL PAS

ME HOU OF COUL CHON

trip soon

Ocher Ossumani

TETO COIANIS

EVALUAHCPE

REQUISIENTHOM.

Ira Bos!

ICECK ON

206

ƯỞ NIS2

MAOUALIER

Minor 053s

COMMErTs

FCUIALAENTS

C/S

FORM 25

3.00

Cisaleis arer erus

Case Otties

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

110.a0

3

---

## Page 107

SAMAM

ON NOPORE

TRO CA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

love coronero omisino devot date to ed i undo no of do loo do 1.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY BAIti

SUBJECT Proposed Invasion Cancolled

00-8-321/29222-66

30 Nor 66

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR:

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

Tols roport was provicuot

Moseminated Be TD 00B-321/5

19112-66

DATE OF

INFO:

23 nov 66 and earlier

PLACE &

PATRACO dOM 23 NOv 66

SOURCE:

2.

÷3.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

US netional, soldier of fortung typo vith vide expertence la Latio Anerica.

He Lo olosely associated with Relando Masfosterg

(Tolo report vas developod by a lavy representativo snaigned to the office.

of proparation.

During the night of 22 nor 66 a declaion was reached to call off the proposed

IRves108 of Hell by the group aponsored by Rolando Manferrer, To Love 100

1e off indefloitely.

Father Jean Baptlote Georges and Colonel Rene Loon have been argutag vito

Masterror Voich has caused conrunion and alsorganization in the moverent.

Nap an i shot to a one to tv a i ca altery sport,

has reulgard because of diesension in the group.

It la bolieved that US Governest agencies bavo loftltrated the ovenent

and the loadore fear that all voapons and equipment sould be confiscated if

plane for the lavasion proceeded.

- end:":

U-Yo

INFORM

GrOW

refrigera soone

"REGED FORN ORANHION

REPORT

CIA HESTORICAL REVIEK FAUGHAR

49.:0

Tho dissemisa1a0s

110.203

at sad ore

---

## Page 108

15-79-00

#HID

OFFICE.

BEPORT.

(When. Filled In).

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

POR FIELD USE ON!

CODE

CASE

#GEIVED".

¡OR HGADQUANIERS USE ONLY

1 0 7:

6

12226

1999160

SUCHCH MICALLA

ét Plans

RILLASED

VA

37 20 B2

00/0/000200

(na1t4)

11.226

C. CONTAC liame: line, Organiration.

Addressl

BYPE OO€:

• Mitchell' I Herbell

0127900

Pouder Syrtngs, deongte

ARIA.

sà 33.

No. SOUNCe Isome Milo, Organisation, Address)

MOVINGINO

10iA,

Game do ebove

SUB COUNCE is bama, Tine. Organisation nudiess

FIQUAL THO

• MEHOO'CE COLESTON

(VAIVATION

EL QUESIEU FRONA

USER OraT

IXCHANGUS

PI'FONGIVE TO SPICHIC

FEQUIREMENIS

Other Datomora

Trip Report

Onor (spécity, tolsai!

NO:

1O USSS..

FHOM USSG

D/ 17

ALADQUARITES COMMENTS.

I don't foollove you could hate

covered the invasion" better if you had

used an umbrella.

An excellent job, I chink..

isl

4:48

C/S

OSe7A

00.

F.O. Chiat

Ostolels prorious

75

Cose.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MSTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

170-011

3

---

## Page 109

INLORMATTO

2u-?1

REPORT

SINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This

paged. contoine interest.

B. UJC Sire 991 Do4/ 88

CONTROLLEO DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

False Reports of Invasion/Reported

Change of Plana

REPORT NO

". DATE DISTR

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-8-321/19007-66

38 Nov 66

NO PAGES

REFERENCES Inte report was previouply

disscrinated as 10-00-3-321/19067-6

DATE OF

INFO:

PLACE &

PATE ACO.

SOURCE

22 Nov 66

==/22. Nov. 66

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED. INFORMATION

US national,

soldier of fortune type with wide. expertence in Latin

America. He 10 Closely assoctated with Rolando Masferrer.

his report was developed by a lavy representative asolened to the

office of preporation:

Ao Of 22 Nov 66 in spite of videspread pross reports, no invasion

of laitt has taken place:

2.

Rolando Masferrer Rojas who is oponsoring the alleged invasion, has

been telling Cuban extles that hio group has secured the alrport it

Port de-Pals and they should be prepared to leave at any time.

3.

Maoferrer hag elven up the idea of moving his stop, which conolots

of approximately 300 Cubans and 100 Haitiang, by boat and is trying

to make arrangements for chartering cleven aircraft, Including sone

D6-39 One of the De-3's would carry colonel Rene Leon, Masterrer,

and Father Jean Fatlate Georges.

4.

The M/V Hudson In to be used to carry part of the reapons.

Manterter Broip 13 vell armed aix hay plenty of veapons.

they have

three tons of C-3 dynamité, and also have sone C-2 and c-4.

So The icnrietta It wil carry photographers.

6. In spite of the above I belleve that the "invasion" is a farco and

1o falling apart.

Manferrer 1o vercly trying to cover up for the

nuidn he has received for the invnsion. It is believed that laofcrrer'a'

Ilfe will be in danger 1f he does not make sine ostensible effort.

• end a

S-YES

ATION

REPOR

HE A5E

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.9

59001050501

Sumerer.

€€ t9d

---

## Page 110

FOLD

OFFICE

$ 37

NUMBER

UBJEET-AID'ERIA:

Roquest for Arc

•(When Filled In)

12-79-00

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

SANE BONES. 4F4

ON Y

CODE

in relig

CASE:

NUMBER

17 1o (g

RECEIVED

4о.

13 29 2003E8

POR MEADQUARTENS US ONLY

öc -

061

010076

:7

IND: VIDUỆI HÒ

IYPE: 00,E

АРНІСС іМАВ

CARON!

REIF ASID.:

DA

DD0OP

04 217

1и на

G. CONTACT dome, Totle: Digonaution Adaress)

Mechill L. WEREKL

Ponder Bprtest;

Ceoreta

SOUREE flimó lille, Orgo

112ABN9:110

1. SUB-SOURCE ira.ne. lila. Orgonisation.

• MAElIOD OF COLLECTION

Iniorpion

Onor Documari

FIELD CORASPENIS

EVAJUATON

REQUESICO FROM

leis Report

USER ONLY

EXCHANGES

10 0550

WROTA USS"

MEADQUARIERS COMMENIS

JOIC

08 MAY

1967

1. 8

ConGrate 21001948

APPRUN 74 E1904

CIA HISTORICAL

REVEN PROGRAN

---

## Page 111

¡his mair al rains intormatren allecting the Naboral Dalerise ol she United Siales a lan to runerrg and ih fopionage lams. litte

18. USE fair 1i3 ind i93,

so transmission ir revela.on ulialurt inany manner to de snouthriere person is richilated ey love.

• CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY : Venezuela

SUBICI

Requeat for Arm

NO DISSEM ABROAD

FIC: 2-324/11467-67

27 Apr 67

REPORI PIO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGIS

REFERENCES

LA CIRL C-DC6-33134

DATE Of INTO Apr 67 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. -/APE 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE US national, soldier of fortune type, with uide expertence in Latin America.

1.

In April 1967 I was approached by a prominent: Venezuelan whom I Prefer not

so identify:

He asked me to arrange procurement of 150-300 9 1 sub-nachone

sung with 1-2000 roundo per gun,

Delivery was to be

"ao soon as posalble"

Hate a (dent the croup of rect they vere being obtatred but

Indicaced f6 was o

3. I told him i vas unablo co be of gaslocance.

-end-

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA NESTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

367

17. 3

$

YES

U :

YES

---

## Page 112

(Whon.Filled.in1

12-29.00

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACISERVICE COLLECTIONS

PON HEADQU

Cast.

NUMBLE.

AMDE

g.r93ee4!

#HID

OBSICE.

A POG!

NUMAFE'

2

I'M.

•I

30086

Promos Davasion Of Buses Detreen Ja23 Mor 66.

22026

1707963

11/1031/

TINA DOE

Molecholi he burtes

Fonder Quings, George

NOT QuAI

A: 127900

ЗАМЕ

METHOD OF CLATTERON

Cher Derumen

Uthai ispersly bolow

ALUATIO

DAN 0TẠY

LIGNARGIS

RESPONSNE O SEENE

GODLENE

10.105503

Clthough theek

alienatte

This nepend tori, one

intercel

Trave,

4.7

Edenselea

HUR'" 23

3-0.

#linens

Air cares

Cose ju.

silencha

454.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1904

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Dinistan; Jun, Dari

Lacoltser

3

---

## Page 113

12. 20-90

INFORMTION

EPORTe

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• 909 eat 90e

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTSY. InsEs/Daalnican Republiod Bahania

SUBJECT

Planned Invuelon of Ea1t1 between

5-13 Nor 66

REFORi NO

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-B-321/17579-00

T Hoy 66

Tile report wus previously

dissentated as ID 003

321/17879-66

CIRL C-D06-5205}

DATE Of

INFO

20 Oct 66

PLACE &

PAILACQ I. Nor 66

SOURCE:

2

•30

INIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Us national vith uide travel experienco 1a latin Anerica.

Ba spoke son

spantab, and bas many social and buninoos coutacte la the Dominican Republie.

(Into report vas developed by a lavy representatire noatened to tho arrice or

preparation.

On 20:00t: 66 I (poke vith Rolando Mnsferror Rojan, a Cuban oxile, and he told

mo that ho has organised a pilitary forco of approxintoly 250 men to lovade

The tavnoton force conloto of Cuban and Baitian exilen rosiding to

the 1S, the Babanas, end the Dontnican Republic, The Lavagton vil prodstly

be launched fron the Dontnican Republio conatima botwoon 5 and 23 Noverber

and the target to Port au-Princes

Tho invasion force will strike to the

early hours of the morning selaoted.

It to vall amad, and that bave dir

cover; tho proofdantial palaco will be boribed.

Maoforrer stated that Eugene I. Mudmilien, Biltian Consul In Want, Florida,

1o avaro of the invasion, but be bao no koovladge of the tavaton data.

Mixintlien 1s prasontly in Baiti Informing President Ruvaller tbet tho Inmaton

can le preventod by pajing off 3200,000 to Mosforror. Maxlaliien wil return

to the US

on 3 Novenber and bo bas agreed with lastorer that 18 Duvalter

arada to the payrott, Maxintlion vill recolve $50,000 and Masterror $150, 000.

Nantorrer told so that the invasion vlal tako place la any event and tho

$150,000, 1l recaivod, vould be uned to further apport too 1x/as102.

Minorerrer stated that ho not withlo the past 10 days with beveral disaldost

Haitian army officerà and he had ruöeived their support.

199 Haitian aro

taid assferor that they would revalt as coon sa inforned that tse

invasion bad camenced.

They do not know that the tirgut vill be porta

Prince; they bellove that it will bo to tho cap Inition area.

Nanfarrer stated that be was confidont that the imasion yull succeed, and 1g

succesatul, Fathor Joau saptlete Gaorios would be appointod provisiona

prasident.

astarror statad that Colona, Rono Leon, Multian eilla, vil

partloipato la tha Jamalon.

• and

MINEOR

TION REPORT INFORMI

INOD FORCIAL HO

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAM

REBOR

****7

hits Pilo

a son!

579979989

540+3494108

GA

---

## Page 114

N0IS CAN

12.28-00

PROCESS SHEEL FOR DOM.

"CONTACI SERVICE COLCRONS

PURARE A:

210:10

21.36

dorso

ANCIANO

repart es che Dantolean Bopablie

(Donntean Bepblio)

Bader Bgringo, Coorgle

...

20901

1017G

A 12 1400

TrA 001:

Care ero lito Dijoniotien:

BOCURTA

IN PRE DE CONCION

• lettor 219ro

Callige. Ossumons

M. 4194414

153.00 18006t, isige;

copy of tho actacted report fron

polendo storger sojes, fornar

Catou Sanstor.

Meaterrer cola

sourca shas the rapere ven orite

Lau sy esauol "bassy" corata, e

Bubin callo,

Tha repose containe

Loterention on Re poltiteal,

ail

Icary, Commist and econcate

slfcacton la cho Bostalean 8o®

polle, es voli so intornation

zio electiono feld en 1 dua 66.

frie fine

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

2. 6

3

---

## Page 115

їдійім 1

illed In).

110.71-00

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTS CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS:

USE: ONLY

BORING

ADOU

FORWARDED

NUMBER

DiC

A 0-

202

SUBHETAND

1191

WBL1181

#HASLD..

4o)

94(22

4.0

G CONTACT iNamo: Tite, Orgonuation, Addin)

3LOA

•T..

19t102i

were is

0122900

HAMIZIQUAI PRO

AREA

outre proomo, Tilo. Organdullan, Address):

RIOVOUATTIG

LOGARIEND TIC

11210890 + baste

1.F0M82AA1 WIM

19090042.891

941e813!

LINGOOS COMECHON

Östricing

0-= Daument

i foundins

Втір Дороль

9 8 863, 3385

APPROVED FOR RELEASE, 1004

CIA HSTORICAL REVIEN PROCRAM

4.5

3

sidesi,

---

## Page 116

14-00000

INFORMATION RE ORT

sion attirman the tent

%..

INFORMATION REPOTTS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY Guatemala.

SUBICT ArDed SOrONE COUp d'Stas plAnaod

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-2-321/00182-66

20 Jan 66

1

CIRE. C-D03-52374

DATE OB

INFO.

12 Jan 66

PLACE &

DATE ACO --112 Jan 66

-TRUSTS UREVALUATED INRORMATION

SOURCE

us national vith uide travel esperienco in ratia Ameries.

Be opeske bom

Openlob, and her many soctal and business contacte to lotta Amarios, but

his recitability lo not of the hiehest:

hia report was developod by a tary representative nostened to the offloo

of proparation

A sa san b6 Miguel to a ta, or of thee plan go over aro

Colonel Enrique Peralta on 15 Jen 66:

Yalgoras told no that if the coup

vas not carried out on 15 Januar, it would bo exocuted do soon as poedible

thoroafter.

2.

ya1goras would set toll se too semes of the individuals leading the coup,

but stated that "ali of the fred torcoo will be involved."

- end a

APPROVEE FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

= 8 FE8 1965

INF

ON

4.5005

LATION

REPORT

Erase

---

## Page 117

SHIELD

(Who sued In)

PROCESS SHLLS FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLECTIONS

PORTIO UNI ONLY

OR MIADQUARI

SORWARDED

activeD

PAUMBIN

CASE:

NUMBER

12:9400

0

209

1L2 300811

F. SUBAC

•AND ANt

HO

RELEASEL

43

G'CONIACI (NOme

IT DIVIDUAL BO

1) 12 1200

00.1

TOP DỤN TO

TONGUAY NO

MOU DI COMICRON

Dobroling

ONE ALLABORE PRO.

HELCONAPINS COMMINS

this Ropors

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PACCRAM

4.4

1221

3

---

## Page 118

12-79-00

OffiCES:

(ween Filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONIE:

FOR HEADQU

BEPOBI

•NUMBER

C/FORWARDED

MO:

CASE

WHEREEN

RECEIVED

ONIY

is

170

78

Coolerase Takes fi

Greed lose

CONTACI Pome! Tillo,:

•Organidation;.

4-29900

171046

BAG ANIZATION HO

SUB:SOUPCE (Namo, Tile, Organiention, Addross)

IN DIVINGAL 11D

TYrE OO,E

GRAPHICS iNADS:

Pubiic Attor

Dida

SUBIECT

•RELEASED

$0 41 42 49

DISSEMINAIED

TE

5.

iz:

SUBAINI

MAttOO Di CONECTION

Unbrioting

Chhas Doryment

FED COMMENS

Crate

2n thiere:

Yes.: +0

RUONITERS COMMINIS

Trip Report

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MESTORICAL REVIEW PROCE

4.3

3

---

## Page 119

F: 12-79-00

PRESENTATION FORM FOR GRAPHIC MATERIAL

SuBver Camerlose, Cuba Ali

13. December: 1965

WAD: FO RACORD

5007L GIFT

22100 Mithe Li Herbel

or aloes, 36 860 Printe

CAMERA OR POCAL LENGIN

I LOA

TECK CLASS

ACATION OF PRCTOGRAPRS CHEN SEPARATED FROM THIS PORN OnO ClassIpIcatIon need not Do eno

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

LEO SECRE!

E UNCLASSIRiCO

BRIEF SOURCE-DESCRIPTICN

US narionol alch ulde travol experienco in the Caribbeen Tolando,

especially in che Dominicen Repubite.

"He speaks some Spenth.

iS SOURCESAPT. TO MANS ASCITIONAL §MOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL AVAILABLES

act ros

MAY SCURCE'S MANE DL RIVEALEO TO GRAPHICS REGISTER, OCH, IF REQUIRIOR;

(cares: No

DESCRIPTION OF MATERIAL

56 Black and midte phoe princo (3 and 1/2 & S) taken with a 35mm conora.

4.2

2507431

BA USE

S$10

10 69 8r

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

PROGRAM N

I88D

---

## Page 120

PON. FIELD

USE, ONLY

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

0O/C COLLECTIONS

BUOSESTED

PELO

10/11/82

00-0. j0rMIa

0029307

271

816/5

FOA, HEADQUARTER!

BECERO

MAURIE

LAOR

ma.

1002.99.900200.pp.mmg

Xone

вод!

6222

Impendine lett of Batzoto/Podraue Expottionary force

(CURA/DORIÇAN RESUSLIC)

40 48 41

02817

TYPE GO:"

49

HOT DIS

CONTACT (Name, Tuli, Ormiation

Nitchell Verbell no

2211 Begoylo Cirole

Corni deblos; Moride

New At

81615

4*

BOUnCE INama Tille,

i'm

Dome en above

BUS-SOURCE

A tirana)

RITRA DIESEMINATION CONTROR

MAY OP RELEAIRO ON NERO TO KHON TO,

DEISIDO CIA CHNSULINTE

AD 10

DELETE

PART 2.

0r 9.0.

DELETE

RATINE

1, 02,

FIELD REMARKS

EDITORIAL COMMENT

91

EXPICI ADOTPIONAL INTORMATION MIMIN UAYSI

MAI MICHI DA INALASI

NO!

PI S

1G:100

25 OOOOLETE PREVIOUS

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1934

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

i.!

120a11

---

## Page 121

2. 77.90

Nº1-32371

23 Tobranty 11

meet Dirtle Circatin Dirtsin

Aten:

$ 1p rt tranch Ooscrint)

Chief

Field Office

Resuse of Ontacto - Ith Cterhes Yes Cleare

11229/4

4127900

1. Jack lucery

Ariela ordice, called on 2l ondory 197%

Pron Atlanta, Ceorule:

Jost 11

1415.

Dearer sith

Vun Cleave and ourusted

ectivitira in acontins

time

In the procese of eatin

the office

to the nresunt

0951379

so did

35 Monuary 19746

that

-Al

art denttes on.

Do yach?

Dutch berkele end dron this:

anyth

to do with hoa?"

te arb od

hine do not knowerbers

intonice

Van Crave seserted 9 cal

mrived shortly hct r

Hit's

do i.00

Aponen: Chirala

Win dogs tha

-Іл.

019411??

in hai

at d'ntrist

entin:

rosentlin

grid

then thie

Ta pull li

n9:rll in nig fibire

ni lin

wanted to be absiatri

any meatin be pre

156 8 draft 8 tha

actual tone lie bad cori

Sace of this Inchaention

no reportid In 03-1(5)-772/07135-7.

3.

mo library 107l ve ricoleed a chul tron Ven scave de lina

wonted to repire in detail onn nicent trio ta Criland, Callornia, shor

he had sumeredle met alch polteo mcticials end dircucard tha icarat

kidnapying:

thic SiA.

rte.

ve told hid tote wug very interercing but not

: CIA businese:

san Cleave called acada on 2s februiry Joal to Mili do. in cu n

vicit to the us by farentino polios erricanta

Und an operational orcertnity

No prepared tato tribmation for dtruentontion doy

O0 A(O)'S.

In slew of recent denizonts ve desin netther ronort cloud.

Do diescinated.

Do coroloto jour rooni dd contrets, both rebortr to

eno lused as bologuren lio.& e cad 3 (olored Se Ationto regiort nubero,

•they sill be used for tituro reportire or cancolled).

E: 2 RIDST CL FI 010050

SOMET

4.5)

---

## Page 122

ATL-39-74

20 February 10%

In the contine thoMa lurchy alanaming chas up to occury hi

tie what no reponry then he colled to cay heed rose connstive

irformatton of defintte interent to Clhe then trid to coild not es

antonio office the follo ing duy due to a jack or tronsportation. hé

eata he mult eno to mur nifier.

see polistantly perord.

inte Mie

coming of ey februry he eage to our office and orchented us yath the

infamation in fogsire in.

li longh draft-ble tops will be noved: in

caRe it ln necdetat a inter inte):

Mat on tho

dangerint. Due no posible intereet. before leaving

sur stilee he anta be car afrala he etcht be Merco be case Colo on

dat epparently happened (and thie in bie story)

4331

Thep it won loamed des arphy lind been lilunared.

Ches dohn Incare of the Aunto Polter Départant coinco

Yon Clenve renucating bis englitonce, /o arked Yan Cleave to

core to headcuartero rude sinalth prilotont Chief Malling (ig

beliero thia lo the

correct note) on the burphy aldonppine!

Van Cleave apparently empersed concern to the

Acolntant Chich that wrominent corberg of Cooa Cola Comany

reciali in the Atlanto age escht he curcets for the cace

The Analutant chlus narced and vent along with Vei

cicave notifyire,

by rhone, cole oriteinid;

Von Cloave had not cleored this betion

ith hịo

lezediate supercor at the cose Colu Company,

Apparently the phone collo were made vory lace in the

everine

Then the thorphy Manming vas resolved; von Cleve

san, colled in by hle bois to accent for his netiona.

nonarently has not been nula

to dustify the calls ond thir

d11l bodiecined et the meting an

horche

In surnest this

ray do hts last offletal sobion for the dosa Colu Conny.

4,51

---

## Page 123

SE

ATL-P0-TP

23 February 3915

Nose receivine the ey sobmary dorks enli fro 039, ve lave

cocesed sith craries lagne and sos jerry of the pite

loch niro

flator vith vian Choare ond hia onerations. gerry conflees thit

Von Cleave had reoped the information contatura 1a Enclosura 1o. 4 to

the 58E

Perry hid a few other Citoss to pay rbout kun Cleove that

probably do not noco to ba repectod lu tilo recorundure

8. Concoming the fature, we Sateil to bo hurd te rench sten

Via Clcero callo 1l ncooscar, talk to hip on tho thoro o fry tired

to sco if to reto the luca: then fr all fallo ofely tell lin to lavo

been fald to slay sut of thin brained.

Dietician

/(an statra)

12 LUDIT CI BY OICE50

4.5%

---

## Page 124

OSs

SECRET

11L-4-73

14 January 1975

John Ri Poterso

Alanca Besident office

Responce to Call-in to Arcicy Haadquartero/Initial Con

face (celophona)

with Johd vanial Villacoon, Carrolltoo, Ceorzie

On January 1975 Albort So Colonn of Cha Hashtricon Flold.

itsco called no to pase on atoreton that he dad fuge here diven b

uchLenduunrccru.rorerdlnz a call receivad by che Asune

Corrollton, Coprals Willianson centified ovalf oe a dechodtot

mintotor and vave kia audrest on souta i2,

Hor 3540, Corrullton,

Coor618, Phoues (404) 954-0463.

2.

In hlo enli to Arcacy leagunroero, Willlazoon oold thor ho has a

Ittond uho had Informacion on the Irpedlis overturow of a foralin sovoro

ment.

The informacion roratded illusal eniprcut of ansa

fron the us to

tho foruian cointry. Willinoon said chat lis

Triend had wanted to try to

coll tho inferation to tho foruiry country coceriod but thut when tho

frand told Willlasson about it linson prevalled on lat to lot nin

(H111lorooo) brion it so tho ettrution of the propar rovornsent agacy,

resulting in hio call to our luniquartors on lies Year's lve.

H11L1a209

anked chat nomone fron tle Agency do pus du contact with lila.

3:

Ois the afcornoon of 7 January 1915, neter verifytig chrouch te

phone operntor that Willi.ngon van hated in che Carrollton drea (ro

octually Alvas at scopville, Georgia, on True toad, but tha Rcoovilla

phone aro honuled undey the carrolicon exclause) no callou blo ruser.

ve were Infored by a young male voice, appatently his son

ns indeal a lechodler nindator, but thit be toughe school ovary Loy curin

in wery cold

called him

Since lie tun not to be et hons bpcil afters it, us

son/out own home that sons eventag.

W11/annon sacmad to bo expactins our enil alchoush va had not

identified gurselvan during the coriter call.

de gave unlossontially the

anze intoracion furntanoù during his den Yenr's ivo call. la asid that

tha fried about iriou ba called to à'forser parissioner and) livea in cha

Carrollçón araa." la proferrad not to provida un vich the friend's naso

The Inforantion, howevur that which ve vore cule co

asceriali--boundos on tie up-and-up, as far on ric. Hilltaron'o pare in 1e

vas concened, for leacenad to la a sincere and voll Intentioned Undivid-

moon ve erlod to at lasst leum

the rage of the foreign country

Involved, illinon sall chac his friond vould cot giva bia that

Information.

4,51

E 2 IMPORT FLAY 010650

---

## Page 125

SECRET

ATL-4-75

14 January 1975

busine out ate a de ho ahe went in descried an a

"a kind of a high linance ron trolved 1a

seteins ap coxporations," who often travels abroad, lad leca agre

by sonone

1.0, lo the Carrollton icot Atlcota ares

(Carrolitua lo about 40 ullos woot of Melants).

me friend was

bo "a good tesead, a reliailo nam, a colters craduaco. an cocandeuce

rants the cortunity;

Accordine to utittiesos, the lectern

appronched becauso of cha naturo of lia work to perfora sona sort ol

tank for coo tiruns and ho inon thoe constaine van wong

sie-loud

then Icarned

all us could about the placed operation and cocorustly

Inlked with Willtanion about It.

sun-rusala overation led beeu foing on for abort & yes

no triend cold Williamon ruet tre

8. he one polat uti lanion sold that his trend told his tae

"the peoplo lavolvoi in cilo ching von'e acrirace co sint nia (er

friood and ho lova tut lo'o gotta co hava to leave thio pare of tha.:

country woe it conco to list.

wilteason tois us:

I tea 1ite I've

vot thia cau'o lito in my lando aul 1 doatunne to do anytiinz te

leovardine mla lite, bacmoo I know hia and his foully as ali.

111llamon surested. tiat vo mect hia filed or tho Cooc dod Luced 1920l

cotaurant on I-20, noar Six Flarm Ovar Goor-la, west of ntlanta,

a3d

he

aald that cha euo of chua hau airpady tastes of til as a dou.

meeting plac..

Wa cold willlason but ve sould bo glad to seat 12t:

is frond biz firat wa would like for his Irlond to sive us a esid so

thật va nuy cạu vith bu. Va save our office phone rubber to

H11110.804.

no of thu wilcius of tila memorandon, wa live had so cael.

7. Fros the informacióa that bilitarson provided, es, location

of peoplo tarized, an atranpt to neut with an Ascacy rentencetative

(to possibly sot un involvel motely by association), ve belleve tut such

of to ausarance of tru miter could be the aane as that unlob sns

reported fros chia offico to Oss no rolated by Stephen Vas Cicave

recordias irch verbell, ut al.

(So ATL-39-74, 20 February 1974,

Rasuno of Contacto with Stephen Van Cleave; A1Z-53-74 9 AÖrl 1474,

Stephen

Van Cleave.)

Witch herbull's operation, which tis bee

decribed locally an a "achino run lactory," 1a locatal at Pouder. Spelage.

Gorala, noout con rillen north of the I-20 Copo aod sugrdirotol.. At try

rato, 4r. Hilliarson's filead has been gives the opportunizy to contact is

.and to ara aunitlog his call.

JOLIN R. PETERSO!

offlee of Chief. DCD

POSS

Seruleas

4,51

# 2 INDET CE BY 019650

SECRE

RET

---

## Page 126

Corder

LAURIAL

1(3)

12-79-00

Nee 8: 11 2s 21:74

COWTIDEHTIAL DISASZ SAE 74 STAFF

CITE DCD/

12194

SUPPORT MACOS OSAT A 18.20 14

ATTV:

SUBJ?

STEVES VAY CLEAVES INTELLIGENES SERVICEE,

ATLANTA,

GONG IA

REF & GRANT/HEUMESSEY TELLSON, ES FLESUANY,

SAGE SUOJECT

LO DUMINO TIE AFTENIOR 05 21 A172650

LOGART AOTA ME RECEIVED

TELEPHONE CALL FROM USELCO

WALLIOGR

3520

OCARIAN ROAN, MIAYI,

FLORIDA,

JANO ADVICED US

THAT AN ACCUAINTANCS OF KIS IN AT

ANITA, GEORGIE, STOVEN VAN CLEAVS,

WANTED TO SPEAX WITH US IN CCISSOTIOS WITH INTELLTOLNCE MATTERS

CONCORNTEG LATER AMERICA.

FE TOLO ALISONO THAT WAS CLEAVA

SCULE CONTACT CUR OFFICE,ÃE ATLANTA; NONEVER, ALLIEGRO SAID

THAS VAL CLEAVE DIDNT WANT TO DESE VETH

HE WANTED: TO SPEAN VATH A CIA OFFICER IN TIME ELSINESS OF INTEL-

LIGENCE COLLECTIONS, HE TOLD ALLIGORO TUAT DUA

OFFICE

MAS. THE SAME STATURE AS THE L

FIELD OFFICE, MUD THAT HE SEOULD

ERGE VAL CLEAVE TO CONTACT OUR REPRESCUTATINR SIL

ALLIESRO

WOULON•T ACCEPT THIS RESPONSE ON DUE PART AND INSISTED THAT VE AI

LEAST HEAR WHAT VAS CLEAVE hAD TO SOY FINALLY. ME MONESO TO

ACCEPT A CALL FROM VAN CLEAVE SO THAT IS COULE TOLL HIM TO COSTACT

OU!!

TREPRESENTATIVE.

4.51

---

## Page 127

RAGE 2 DCD

12A9A CONFIDENTIAL

VON CLEAVE CALLED US AT HIS EXPENSE PHDS ATLANTA ACOUT

FIVE MOUTES LATER:

WE ADVISED HIN AS THE OUTSET THAT HE

GHOULD GROAK WITH

IN THS

PESIDENT OFFICE

AT HIS EARLIEST CONVENIENCE.

WE EXPLAINED THAT OUS WORK FORCE

IS DIVISED

RATVER TYA!

HID THAT

STICE ME LIVES

ATLANTA, HE MUST DEAL WITH,

TrE

VE

PROVIDEC HIM WITH TRE TELEPHONE NUMBER FOR

•THE

MID

NE ISGICATIO THAT HE WOULD CONTACT

JIVE SAE-DAY.

CALLES L

TO ADVISE WIN CO MAN/GLEAVE'S LETHATION TO

CONTACT MINO WE LATER LEAGGO FROM SOTH

ANC. VAN CLEAVE

THAT THE CONTACT VAS MADE.

. 3.

VA: CLEAVE.

HOWEVER,

СЕЛЕ ТІСТАКЬК.

YAN CLEAVE PLACED AT

LEAST TEO MORE TELEPHONE CALSS TO US FROG ATLANTA CAT HIS

EXPENSES, MUD QUE FROM SACE COUNTY, FLORIC

ẠCH TIME HE

ADVISEO HIM TO CALL

F. ATKEN THAN 65.

HIS RESPOHEF ON

THESE OCCASIONS VAS THAT HE ALREADY HAD OR INIERED TO REEF

_ADVISED EUT THAT ME PANTED TO NGER LO LIFORNED ALSC.

THE LOCAL

CALL VAS MADE TO ADVISE US TMAN VAi

CLEAVE WAS IN MIAGE IN THE COMPANY OF TWO ARGENTINE POLICE

OFFICIALS,

SXO WE COLLA CENTIEE DE ME SO DESINES. 15 AGAI

TOLD KIN THAT HE COULD BEFORE TOL

4.51

---

## Page 128

RAGE 3 DORA

TRA9 CONFIDENTIAL

-WAS CLEAVE TOLD US DUSINO CHE OF THE AFOREMENTIONED

CONVENSATIONS THAT HE IS ACGLENTED WITH MITCHELL VEREBIL

A12795

FONDER SNEINGS, GEORGIA, AD THAT HE HAD BEEN *PRESSURED

INTO TAXING WEDECLE TO ARGESTILA LITH HUA LOLATE JAKUARY

1974 EY OFFICILS IN THE COCA COLA COMPANY, CORAL

/GAELES,

A16

FLORIDA, WITH WHICH VAN CLEAVE MAD COM WAS A COESELIIAG

ARGENTINA. VAN CLEAT

ADVISEO US THAT BE HEVEN AGAIN WOULD

HAVE ANYTHIRO TO DO WITH VERGELL ESCAUSE THE LATTER MAD ACTED

SO BADLY DURING THIS TRIP.

WE TOLS US THAT LESBELI MAD

COMMENTEO TO ARCENTISE OFFICIAS

S THAT ME CHERCOLD WAS 500E-

HOW CONNECTEC WITH TRE CENTRAL ITTELLIGENCE AGENCY, NUD ON

A FIEST DAYS CASIS NIR PAIL' CONEY, LOT. VA CLEAVE TOLD

US THAT INTERS NAD DECCHERATED TO SUCHA DEGREE THAT HE

RETURNED TO THE US ALTHOUR SERGELLO SOUR WRORY IS A EIT

FUZZY ON THE CONTENTS OS THIS DISCUSSION, PUT WE RECALL

SOMETING TO THE EFFECT THAT WEPOULL LOS INVOLVED VITY UTIC,

WOrEN, AUD

/CONG, AND VAN CLEAVE VAR AFTAID THAT WENGELL MICHT

BE ARRESTED DY ARGENTINE POLICE LEFORE IT WAS SUCH.

VA:

CLEAVE TOLD US INAT LE PEESORALLE NEVLA NAS S0 SUCH AS

MAPLIED A FELATIONOMIP WITH THE AGZACY TO GUY CUISIOSA

1.51

---

## Page 129

PAO

..A DCD/

1249A CONFIDENTIAL

5 .

VLTHOUGH WE NAVE NOT MET VAR CIEAUS IN PERCON, GASLO

UPON CUR TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONS VITE ALM HE APPEARED TO HE

ANd INTELLIGENT

MAID ACASONABLE HANO: WE ARE SONAY THAT WE

CONCOr PROVIDE A COLE DETAILEO ACCOLOT OF QUIT COMURGATIONS

WITH VAN CLEAVE, CUT AS WE MENTIONER BY REFERENCED TELECON

VE DID NOT MARE MATCE DUSTNO THE CONVIRONTIONE NOR DID VE

FESL IT SECESSARY AT THE TING

IRATE A MENDRAALUG FOR THE

MACORD SINCE VE CELIEVED CUT IT WAS A SCANAL, ALESTT COMPLY,

PERCHRAL TO ANOTHER DOD OFELES. E& IMPORT CLOY 113551

C 0

4.51

---

## Page 130

SEGREi

F12.78-00

bases, Persoassl Cocurity birtason, CE

Dirertsy, Dacatic Concast Corvico

(Fuses, Mersees biviolos)

• Inforantion Concursing

2a lưy 106g

I Ta 1041000143

coming astice,

13 101.04

do quections vertaliter

dinabor 14

malvote arry dor inebrancion eras

for your scoria end posalble

tits racoustia chonia be

2733.

1000 71

Sebount

Ficlosura: to states armo

Visore: erw

4.51

STORET

---

## Page 131

SECRET

22lv 19

AX

B 85.

io racan,

Din:

ESpE, DAssalLa Contasi corrico (farrloce Dirteloa)

RUT

in ver roseirico 73:

tare dos for cho

contatro

In the acce,

pericial tracing cancelo in

thor than to

sayes blos la poliana the patarantion in

tai!

alato cromat

SEGUILI

JNODT.

Virano: Cr

4.51

4mE: 5'3

3:03ST

---

## Page 132

SECHET

-F- 12-71

ANTW

Ducutor, Dosentle Contact Service

chief, Mamt Flold Ortice

LocaliOst Inquiry Regarling Daforestion on Mitchel

L. Horboll

1) My 300

MI1-004-69

on 15 May 1909

Crecial: Agur Dera Plousony loons Our renresentatire,

WAs, visited the Went Sold orrtec

so cesiste any infonmuion se right:

have recordine Mitchell lovertell no araly is underrots a socurity

clearance check as the resut of zaccently voive cuployca lya comony

with a coverment contract.

2e Nervoll woo on misolicited contoss of this office bestonin in

1959 and he reached pork notories in loreader 1557 on e result er mie

Involvement in the Rolairo Municirex

¿rial in comection vich the mortive

Maltion Invasion.

John Orcaney, Oug

nas in Micai at tho time to oversee

¿yeney Inscrento.

• Ploumen in contactlu, puler la magnue: agenales 1a:2)1

nolullne the 13 Attornash Offied soachos racetred an indication 2u6 CI.

dal tufonialion on verboll; thur Flood's virit to the lan Fieli orive.

it. son indicucd to Placon, to 15 bauch persorally by sonira

abers of thio strif, anat vc mosu of verdull coithrt on occacion in

lad reported incolicited inforantion I vas cuccrsed, lorever, stat

Ilutcos officer to Hashington.

5..

Irls 1s for bacroin and 1a beins coranded et

of Local CIA, Cocurity.

the suesistion

Exogan: pay

(3)

SEGHET

4.51

---

