# 104-10196-10029

## Page 1

104-10196-10029

MINORANDUM FOR:

SECRET

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

Talk to be given al an OSI Intelligence Collection Seminar to

be held on 22 and 23 February 1971.

Yesterday and today you have held discusaions on the intelligence

collection process, targetting, and exploitation. In this hour long dis-

cuselon of counterintelligence, I am going to continue that process. 1

ain going to talk about intelligence collection, the procese of targetting.

and the proceos of exploitation. However, in contrast to the other

speakera in the seminar, l'am going to discuss you as a larget.

for most of us serving in the Directorate of Science and Tech-

nology or the Directorate of Intelligence, security on a daily basis

consists of showing your badge to the man at the door and making sure.

that your safe le closed at night. During the day ve associate with our

colleagues who wear badges to testily to the fact they have been cleared.

Outsiders who come into view also near badges indicating that they too

have been cleared. Thus wrapped in this cloak provided us by security,

few of us give much thought to the fact that a major power with endless

funde considers the United States and in particular the Central Intelli-

gence Agency to be the "main enemy, the primary adversary, the

prime target. " There la documentary proof of this. I can go on to

SECRET

Get 1

Guaran 883

---

## Page 2

SECRET

say that in this age of sechnology where, in my view, the United States

has no equal, the Directorate of Science and Technology and its officea

such as the Office of Scientific Intelligence rate pretty high on the

priority list of targeto. It has to - look althe publicity -- aid look

at: the lact that as eo many of you know, the Soviet technological gap

is something the Soviets are trying to close fast. Interestingly

enough, the KGB S& I elfort has expanded in roughly the same time

frame as DDS&T. Before 1956, there were small S&T sections which

were part of geographic area divisione.: Aböut 1956/57, these laolated

oclentific units were consolidated into an S&T department and in 1963.

she department was upgraded into a full fledged directorate. Me lat

as overseas representation is concerned, the USSR has 4l slots in

IAEA. Twenty percent of these are occupied by KGB S& I case officere.

O.K., so you never heard of any Russians snooping around OSI

and besides security la there with badges and locked safed, eic.. 80

we are protected from'attack, Don't you belleve it. Let us for a

moment pretend that we are KGB or GRU operations officers and that

we wiah to penetrate OSI. How do we go about it? Do we send one of

our nice Soviet lade to call? Do we use a case

officer from one of the

Eastern European satellites? Just for an Idea of the magnitude of

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

the known resources available to us as KOS officers, consider that

In 1969 there were möre than 21, 000 Soviet citizens resident in some

77 non- Communist countries. Of these almost air thousard were

official Soviets and sixty percent or j,560 of these official Soviets

were intelligence officers. Putting this in local terms, there are 100

Sovièts officially lieted as diplomats at the Embassy here in Hashing-

ton. It would be möre than prudent to assume that at least 60 of these

people are Soviet intelligence officers. In addition to this formidable

array to which I have Just alluded, the seven Eastern European Commus

' not countries have among them nineteen different intelligence services.

Adding to the Washington contingeat from these services brings our

number tip to about 100. Bloc intelligence officers. Ah, but you say.

the FBl watches themm. Do they? Consider the elatieties. Assuming

• 3 man eurveillance team, which is far too few for a good surveillance

operation, ?4 hour per day coverage of these people would on the basia

of 3. eight hour shifts require 900 people in the street seven days per

week. With these figures, you are talking about some 20% of the

entire FbI atal! of ageats just to handle thia small piece of the pro-..

blem. Nevertheless, If all we had to worry about were these 100 Bloc

agenta in Washington, we could seat easy. At the morent for example.

the FBI is terribly concerned about the proposed new Soviet

. 3

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

¡Conculate in san Francioco which will turn louse the KCh un the

coast.

No: the chancés are that the fellor we need to sorry about le

a nice friendly Americán or hio lialeon counterpart who is in the

building and who is wearing a badge. In other words, a penetration

agent.. With the use of that term, let me digress for a moinent and

try to lay out for jou, hat counterlatelligence la all about.

There are several waya to look at counterlitelligence. One

thing that it de not le another name for security, even though there

are security factore livolved. Within CIA, we try to defend or protect

thrce things: our people, our lastallations, and our activitico. Pro

tecting people and things la the primary job of the Office of Security.

Within the Clandestine Service the third item, prolecting our activitice,

to a joint responsibility between the various area divielons and the

Counterintelligence Stalf. Traditionally speaking, there has not been

, a function similar to a Counterintelligence Staff In DDS&T because

traditionally they were not engaging in operational activities which

had to be protected. This, as you are aware, la no longer true. Some

of us who have been exposed to both sides of the house are somewhat

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

uncasy that auch bighly sensiire scientific and technical information

and operaliono are not bodier prusected than they are. liosever, thie

la, for my pari, a persuil spiaion.

Cader the ferma of NSCIO No. 5, the ClA and la fura the CI

Staff has USTU responsibility for counterintelligence abroad. This

means that Cl Stall do lo provide the lead la developing a central register

of people of counterintelligence interest, developing counterintelligence

doctrine, setting up channels for abaring CI Information, etc. It does

not mean laal we act as policeman for the communley. Factiagency is

respanaible for policing its ora house; and frankly some io a delter

Job than others. However, there la direct overlapping la the jee age

between ClA's reuponalbilities and the internal sécurity responsibllities

of the FBI. There lo no clear lise of demarcation between U.S. Agencies.

All work together..

i si

As an activity, Cl vori can be considered to le fro matching

balfo; security and counterespidaage. Security conolate of establishing

paceive or stalle delenaci aidiai di lustie ind concralet attempte

to interfer with our intelligence functlons regardleas of who irles to

Interfer and protecting our secreis. Counteresplunge on the other

hand reguires the Identification of a specific advereary, a knowledge

5

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

cóvinal specille operationa he lo carrying out and the countering or

neütrall-ing of hls operations by princtraling or manipulating them so

thas their thrust le burned back ipon the greasor.

finally, andchia to me lo the real ques of Cl as I know de. a

defensive service, such-do a Counterlitelligence Slalf, cannot simply

eis and bulld delenalre barriere. l must accept a responsibillly.

bevond the requirements of securliy if we rend accurity lo mean pro

tection agalnal clandestine ur, covert allacks on our people, Installátions;

and activities. I tala is all we seck-fo do, any sopbistiéated Intolligence

servlee such as the rOB or GRU will be too strong for us; and we will

fled ourselvès unequal to the task, Cood counterintelligence must be.

aggressive. I inust learn all it can abou our eneries, learn their

secrete and be privy to their councils. In otherwords, the one tra

scending objectire of counterintelligence is the penetration of the enemy

Intelligence service. A Soviet defector is of inuch lesa value than a

clandestine penetration of the Soviets

service becauae with a defector,

the Soulely know precisely tial he inew and thus how badly they are

burs, With a penetration, you have the only means of really knowing

whether you yourself are penetrated.

Insofar as the organiiation and activitiea of a counterintelligence

6

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECREI

staff are iniorned, lla structure ari jections are to a large extent

determined by the activities of lis cries aireraary and by national ob

Jectires. la our cane thie would of coirse be the koU and GRu.

Basically speaking, inost Ol Stallo Dredi down logo an operations group

and a researchand analysis group, tia the usual administrative sup

port iscluding a very strong rechsical unir." The operations group

carries en such activitles as durveillane and countersurveillance.

penetrativas, provocatious, double aged eporations, technical operations

and countertechnical operations, cousteriatelligence interrogations and

debrieflngs, the handling of walk-ins dad defectors and joint operations

with various foreign ladson derrices and operational securily reviews.

Iwill bo sled to deline and/or expand da lãe méaning of any of these au

you desire. Are there any queations?

A Cl operations group with warlinuide responaibilities de usually

broken down into geographle areas with ai operations branch for each

area. A typical operations branch would bave a counteresplonage unit.

a countersuire rolon unit, a counterpropaganda silt, and'an operational

security. unie.

While the operations group and branches are worrying about the

day-to-day problems involved in the baailing of operations of the typi

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

se have just described, the ide A unde in analyalng all of the data olo

lained, revioing doctors add auliance and putting out reporta about

developrients and trends as sell do speeific studden se the enemy in

much the same manner as you write a repori in O5l, with uf course

the big difference that Cl reporta are Intended primarily for Cl audiences

and policy purposes au phat the checulation la much lege thap is the case

10r an OSi or ÉMSAC projuct.. The R a 1 unli looks at the activities

of an individual KGB officer an tactical reporting. Activity of the

Sorel Embaggy as a whole lo considerei to be operational reporting

while operationa of lhe 1.GL in toto are arseased as strategic réporting.

Since all intelligence organizations handle certaln altuations in certair

ways and each has its hallmarke which reflect among dther (alogs de

society which it represents, long term analysia by the R8: A unit la

cruclal to establish the standard operating procedures for recognizing

Sovlet operations for what they are and then countering them:

Now, back to you as a lazget.. Naturally the KGB would like to

achleve that ultinate succces' - a penetration of CIr. Having an agrat

in the enemy Intelligence service lo a particularly rewarding pastime

because people in latelligence services know so much about what is

going on in their own country. that is classified. Many of you, for instance.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

krios a great deal about highly claceifled projects in the Pentagon walch

have diltle or nothing to du with our intelligence collection or analysia.

Il you are working the Fordet ABli problem you get to know a great

dead about our own AbM.

Many people work long hard hours to fry to loure that the KGu

doco not mucceed in getting a atall employee on tieir payroll.

Over the past five years attempts by foreign intelligence officero

principally Sovles, to recrult U.S. Government employees have been

roported al the rate of about swo a day." Duriag thia perlod there were.

more than i, 000 incidents in which the foreignes fell he had devéloped

the employce to the point that he could come right out and take the

recruitment pitch. Moat of those targeted were State Department

employees, with the Ageney

and the Department of Defense Lled for

second. Thia at least shows that the KGB l trying. But perhaps the

most signifleant thing to tbink about do this. If this many cases were

reported, how about the recruitment attempto that were not.

My purpose In reviewing the above is not to make you start

looking crosseyed at your colleagues, but merely to suggest that you

give the matter some thought from time to time.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

1d-0d0d

SECREI

it's anoume that we have been successful in keeping any 2GH

agent off the payrull. What do they do nexe? Who else comes into the

ClA Headguartern building?. I found out secently, lo my great surprise,

that there are 100, 000 visitore to this building in a year's time. But

lel's get speelfic, let's talk about OSt..

Between August 1970 and carly this month, Ost had 793 visitors..

Of this number, the bulk, or 454, were from other Governient agencieo,

138 were contractore cleared by ClA, while the remülning 201 were

private Inuividuals who either hold no clearances at all or hold some

kind of clearance from another Government agency.

Unfortunately, CIA le rather unique in spending the slois, money

and manhours in clearing people. As you know, we have our own clear-

ance system and do not rely on the checko of othere for our employees or

our contractors. With other agencles, and particularly with the Depart

ment of Defense, with employees and contractora in the millions the kind

of investigative checka we perform la CIA would run to the thousande of

people and the billions of dollars, and in all likelihood the whole defense

effort would grind to a screeching halt if they did.

Too often then an Individual with a top secret clearance from

another agency le simply an Individual whose name, when checked

10

SECRET

---

## Page 11

1d-0d0

SECRET

against the lists de the various

occurity agencica (National Agency

check), failed to daciose any so-called derrogatory information.

can tell

you off the secord that there are a number of individuals who

worked abroad on classifled projects for foreign goveriments for several

jears who then returned to this country and promptly were granted top

secret clearances by U.S. agencies without a word asked.

Vith this the case it-followe that some of these people may well

be working for someone besidea Uncle Sam. long that line, I can also

say off the record that there were among those 793 OSI visitors In the

last air months people wio were in fact working for someone beaidea

Uncle Sam.

Again, the foregoing is not calculated to make you into a suspi-

clous security officer type at all. Hopefully it will get you away from

the

state

of mind where this sort of thing never occurs to you. In

conclusion I have some specific suggestions to make which are not big.

deal but which, lf implemented, can be of help to us all:

Il you are dealing with people outside the Agency, or inside for

that matter, there is do need to tell them everything you know about

everything just because they are cleared. If they come to talk about

apples, stick to apples. Don't give them i gratis tour of the orchard.

11

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

li one di your contretors or a former colleague in industry

really tries to pump you about things that are nozo of hie concert, abus

lim oft. it her persiota, sell soméone.. While he is probably trying ta

gei more business from us for hla flem, there may be more to it tha

Il CIA Headquarters accine a glamorous place to your former

colleagues and neighbors, leave it that way. Qua"s give them a gulded

tour just for the hell of it:

Don't assume that just bocause the guy cues not have a Pussian

name or speak with an accent that he is 1005 OK. The ideal KGS age:

1a the W.A.S. Po with a Yale degree and a pedigree shat gets him into.

the Sons of the American Revolution. Even if your guy is just greal, be

may have a boss or colleague back at the ranch who is nos so great.

This ls something, to be kept particularly in mind when dealing with

foreign llaison people: Be particularly wary of the liaison sype =

remember Fuchs, Vassal, Philby, and Bossard. And finally, juat

because your friend was cleared for top secret whatsle six months ago,

don't automatically assume he still is. Check. He may have been fired

in the interim.

Are there any questions ?

12

SECRET

---

