# 104-10262-10265

## Page 1

104-10262-10265

UN.LASSIFIEO

SUOUECT: popandd

#HOad

U

dof ER MAl

=i OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON." ENTIAL

IX SECRÉT•

EXTENSION

RIAN

Toi oto drpes

1.

CI/RA

WEA

QATE

BCINEO| POUWARORO

OFFICENFI

INITLALS

XAX-004

OAll

18 Sep 64

COMMENTS ae et n conene o eta tom aa

2c

29

SomE AS

866-894

12.

19.

14.

PORA

610 "I 8

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

FILE IN:

201-740720

INTERNAL

U8R OHLT

UNCLASSIPIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

XAX-604

Q-9813

18 September 1964

MIMORANDUM FOR : Chlef, DD/P/CI Staff

ATTENTION

: C1/RKA/TC/

SUBJECT

& Handwriting Identification (22, 028-21

REFERENCE

8 Coquers Memo, 16 September 1964

1. Reference forwarded (1) = poor quality roduced nise photo-

[raph ol a Cuban Via Application in the name of Lee H. Oowald with

• handwritten notation in the lower leit corner that appeare to read

"Hotel del Cameron(?)/Room 18 46-60-51(?)", (2) enlarged photograph,

unknown also, of signature "S. de Duran", and (3) Xerox copy of Volume

§ of the exhibite lo the "Investigaton of Ansassination ef President John E.

Kennedy, November 22, 1963", containing handwriting specimens of Lee

Harvey Orwald. It wan requented that an effort ba made lo determine li

Silvla Duran or Lee H. Onwald wrote the notetion in the lower laft corner

of the vina appliention.

2. There are several obatacles, or deficiencies in evidence,

which preclude reaching an un-qualified opinion in thie matter. such me

the extreme poor quality ol the reduced uise (ontimated to be about. 3X to

55X) photograph of the vina application as opposed to the enlasgod Duras

•'ganture, and the abance of comparable lettero in the two writingo.

S. Nevertheless, careful examination and comparimon of all of

the wilting lesde to the following opialon: There lu enough aimilarity

between Rhe writing in the algnature "S. de Duran" and the questicned

notation on the visa application to make !' appear probable that Duran

pinced the notation on the application. Or, stating it another way; !

mould not aliminate her no a suspect writer of the notation. Examination

of the original documente might remove thene qualification.

4. I do not find enough aimilarily between Owald's writing and

the questionod notallon to warrant a suspielon that he da the autor.

CS CiTY Fu +1-201:289248

COPY

SECRET

Eatinine wom a-tonatte

201-740720

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

XAX-004

C-9813

Page?

3. In noother report dated & September 1964 (Q-9795, 21.947-30

Oewald was Identified an the author el the aignature "Les H. Orwald" on

the applicatios.

6. All of the documenta were returned to you direct par yous

requeet®

Thomas

• Thomas

TBD/GARB/QDS

Distribution

2.

Addren

СОРУ

SECRET

201-740720

---

