# 104-10165-10169

## Page 1

104-10165-10169

GASSITY TO PILE DS..

I-DIE TO FILE NO. -

• PILE BIO DET. TO BRANCH O

DESTIOT LO SIG.

F&Ju

TANAKE

ASTIDE

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

TOTAL COPIE

SECRET

SOTIFIED

MR. NAPoLi

O RID COPY

REPREOUeT Or PROMIBITED

5 ВЫЕ

FILE KR WHILS

EL ELSAG

3000600261.

SECRET, 3231262

16-26

IMMEDIATE

INFO IRMEDIATE DIF

ATE WAY

5413

Thus is file

DYVOUR

PERUMEN

PEF

GA@IN 42256)#

12e

LO PLANE PROCUREMENT. PROELEM DIFFICULT DUEY

EART DEADLINE

BUT HAVE STARTED TRY WORK OUT SOLUTION , TRYING ARRANGE CHARTER

IN AMCORE-2) NAME DC-3 TYPE AIRCRAFT. WAVE AIR OFFICER USING

CLEARED CONTACT WITH

AS FRONT IN TRYING

ARRANGE CHARTER WITH

OTHER

SeR sERVICe SUcH AS MAcrEY AIRLINeS.

CLEARED CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER THAT AMCORE-2 HEAD OF

SROP TRAVELLING NEYSMEN STRANDED SDOM THRU PLANE FAILURE, ADD

AMCORE-2 KNOWN TO HIM AS RELIABLE PERSON AND HE WILLING VOUCH

FOR AMCORE-2 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND IF NECESSARY TO

ADVANCE CHARTER PRICE. CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER AMCORE-2

KILL ARRANGE NECESSARY LANDING, REFUELLING CLEARANCES AT SDOM

COMMERCIAL AIRPORT.

2. IF SUCCESSFUL IN ARRANGING CHARTER, MAY WISH FOR

COVER REASONS THAT AMCORE-2 SEND CABLE (PHONE NOT NECESSARY AND

MIGHT CONFUSE SITUATION TO SUPPLIER CONFIRMING REGUEST FOR

CHARTER FLIGHT. WILL ADVISE, LATER RE DETAILS.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Nol Reproduce

4/01

---

## Page 2

14-00000

10 42307 82-2

3. IN ORDER TRY ADD COVER AT SDOM END SUGGEST ANCORE-2

INDICATE TO HIS PARTY THAT INBERT PROVIDING HIM WITH SUNDS 16-10

TO CHARTER REPLACEMELIT PLANE TO SET GROUP EASK TO MIAMI.

CAN THE PASS FUNDS TO ANCORE -2. POSSIBLY

COULD GET INSERT

TO BACKSTOP STORY HE GAVE SONEY TO AMCORE-2•

SECRET

CFS! 5413 6745 AMCORE-2 IC-3 (KUSAPK MACKEY AIRLINES - 2 THRU

-2-2-2 -2 NOT NECESSARY RE -2 IMSERT MIRN! -2 INSERT -2

* PRIVATE AIRCRAFT

SHOULD BE OBTAINED

-I SEGET

FOR TRIP.

3/01

---

