# 104-10177-10161

## Page 1

104-10177-10161

F118..0

CRIG :

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

1O!

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO :

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRJI

POUTING

8x1.813.6

ruth reser

Vastes 3

+ 811886258 ano

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPIRATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

OUT 55783

PAGE 2

INFO

20457

AND PAID A CUBAN LONASHOREMAN $300 80 DO THE JOB. COLIN PIED TO DON IS.

REPORT WHICH BAI POUCHED MENTIONS BROWN AND ICCORNICK AS THO UA'STORS

FROM TOLEDO UHO RESIDE MORGAN'S HOUSE•

HOS TRIED DISCOJRAGE CD-DOX.

REQUEST STATIONS CONSENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

+ *

Ria:

1' 3. 6. 8I00, 0/40

ARIANING OFICIA

1389 g

нем. кони

SECRET

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER. THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMINITED.

03

1/BR

---

## Page 2

CONMIRENTIAI

INCIDENT REPORT

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONIY

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATEL MaY 1973.

TIME 1705 hourg

NAME Don G. Duncan

GRADE N/A

_OFFICE N/A

INCIDENTRequest for Information TIME 1705 hours PLACE 41I1 Hermosa St.

Toledo,

Ohio

419-536-7159

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

The

Agency

Operator transferred a call from Subject who re-

quested to speak with the Chief Agent.

Subject alleged to be

publisher of the United Labor News,

Ohio, and wanted information on

(circulation 5,000), Toledo..

the disposition of

one. Olga

Morgan,_

a captive

ot the Bay of Pigs Invasion wao has

been In-

carcerated in

one

Initially,

*that Morgan has

been

of Castro's jails is to seven years.

Subject stated

imprisoned for

later

changing this, upon questioning,

seemed

uncertain

to fifteen

years. Subjoct then

as

to when the

invasion

occurred.

Subject 1s

Avenue, Toledo, Ohio.'

calling for dorsono matter, lies. fu sorgan, 2509 collingwood

Subject appeared

to create an

impression that he

1s a real

go-getter who

expects a prompt reply to his

query.

Subject

noted that he would

bo calling Jack Anderson, syndicated columnist

following his talk with the Agency.

Subject was highly sarcastic initially but became less strident

as the

conversation developed.

Subject stated that he

expected

his call to be

returned.

he. Was

advised,

however,. that a

report

of his

call would be

prepared and passed to appropriate Agency

officials.

ACTION TAKEN:

As stated abnuo

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PTOS)

COPY: CIPHY SD

COPY: C'PSD

FILE: BSB/PHYS

SD

COP!:

1798

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONLY.

---

