# 104-10298-10218

## Page 1

104-10298-10218

02 5

"iss

DBA-)32

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OP JUSTICS

Pederal Bureau of Investization

copy to:

Report of: FRINCIS J. O'BRIEN

Date:

2/23/52

Field Office File No.: 100-9086

•Istle:

ROBERT C. WOOD

Office: New York, dew York

Bureau Pile No.:

61-7952

Character: SSCURITY MATTER - C;

DINERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

ESCISTRATION ACT. - CUBA

Synopsis:

1Y T-I advised that balance in account of R. C.

rood Importoo cigars, uno.

with Manufacturers

Eanover Trust Co.,

as of 12/29/f,1, was $4,157.96.

"I I-l also stated that checks drawn on this

secount were for the payment of salarles.and

normal busincss expenses.

LEONARD PICKARD,

CPA,

surised that during auditing of books of RODSAI

&. WOOD he has rever observed any funds coming

to WOOD from the National Bank of Cuba or frau

ayresa Cubana de Exportaciones of Havanas Cuba.

CRARLES ACHMANN, attorney, Miari, Plorica,

advised

that Harris Advertising

Agency has been

guccessful

In the initial phase of 1ts suit against the

Cuban Government

as a favorable decision wa. handed

down in Dade county court relatise to thu selaure

This docusent containa neither recommendations nor conclusiona

of the FEi.

It 18 the property of the feI andiis loared to

your agenit; 1t and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agendy.

21 Pel6z

19-125-3

ice:

---

## Page 2

cd-idonor

37 :11-9080

(Srrpe"g Cont'd)

of Cuban tobacco destired for R.C.H. Supervisor,

Ire.

the

ACIM.INN statcd

thet preceeds of the snle

of

sulzed tobaçco amourted to $205,000.00 and

satisiled tho debts of the cuban Goverment to

Harris Alvertising Heency.

A nei's 1tem appoaring

in tihe Mlani-publlshed Cuban paper

"El Mindo"

1/74/62, related that Empresa Cubana de Exportaclones

was dissolved on 12/31/61 on thr zusolution passed cy

vhe Cuban Foreign Comurce Minister.

ST'ANLEY M.

ZAIK, attorney,

165 Breadway, NYC,

advisod hi9 1aM

fima reprusenta Threc Stara Trading Company, which

18.821nz

the Guvernmunt of Cuba for brcach contract

ZwAlk stated that papera have been filed in NY

•State Suprumo Court to attompt to attach monies

coslected in the U.S. by ROBERT C. WOOD Of R.C.W.

supesviger,

Rosulta of examination of ROBERI

c. H00D by

AEEOrneY BUlEAS. EeNtS anoof davie

of Attorney ENNIS filed In NY State Suprome Court

set forth.

ADOLFO AUPIERA,

Sr. odvisad on 2/8/62

that woOD and his fima had to vacate preizlaco on

or berore 5/31/62. AURIEVA atated that he belloved

WOOD was presently In Havana, Cuba,

but was not

absolutaly positive.

ATtOrney MONRUE P. BLOCH, NYC,

advised that there were no new devalopments in U.s.

ustrict court to obtoin an Inlunction srainat woor

1nd his diItrs.

P

IEXSIYS:

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL, BUFEAU OF INVESTIOATION

Dato_ 1/5/62

17 I-I advlied on January 3, 1562, that the balance

In the account of R. C.

Hood Imported Clyars,

Incorporated, ag

of Deoember 1, 1901, was $7.482.32.

The balance in the acoount

as of Duoembor 29, 1901 was $4,137.96.

NY T-I advised that during the month of December, 190,

there were 22. deposits made to this account and the checks

on thia account were for the payment of salaries of the

employees and for the payment of legitimate businesa expensea.

NY T-l also advised that this account refleoted

that R.C. Wood Imported Cigars, Indorporated, pays $421.89

for rent and clectricity to Ad Auriena Incorporatod, 85 Broad

Street, New York City.

NY 1'-1 advised that check mumber 10502 dated

December 8, 1961,

was paid to ARCHIBALD BROMSEN and this cheok

was in the amount o= $10,000.00.

The account also reflcoted

that for the month uf November, 1961, a check dated December 14,

1961, was sent to Pickard and Friedman for accounting fees for

the month of lovember,

endored for dependey do pAst

NY T-I stated that this cheok was

NY T-l advised that the records from which the

above information was taken are no longer available.

Information furnished by NY T-l should not be made

publio except in tho usual proceedings following the fasuande

of a subpoena duoco "teoun.

1% T=l civised that in the event that any of the

Information from this account is desired a subpoena should be

directed to RICHARD MC CARTHY, Vice President, Manufaoturers

Hanover Trust Company, New York City.

Tanutacturers Banover Irust Co

on 3/3/62 at 60 Broadvay, NYC

ELle # NY 100-9086 -

DY SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN:ChJ

__sato dictated 2/4/62

This ducument contains neither recommendations nor conolusions

of the FBT.

It is the property of the FBI and 1s loaned to your

agenoy; it and its contents are not to be distributed outaide

your agenoy.

---

## Page 4

NY 100-9086

Concerning

• ARCRIBALS

sa.ool previously mentioned

at 19 to be noted that Must an actoroy and a partner in

the law firm of Bronsen and Car-=ui,

New York,

450 seventh Aventie.

Now Tork.

Ine da

dror Bronsen and Camzaran

-pregented ROBERT C. WOOD IN

coresponcine lith tho United

Statco Dupartment of State

and

ited Brateg Departreat

of Jitica rclative Io WOODis objection to.

filo regictration.

under the provlaions at the Forein Asents Resiatration Act

$ 1930, an amended

---

## Page 5

Biteetc

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIOATION

Date

1/10/62

LECHARD PICKARD,_ CPA,

55 Weot 42nd Streot,

CAR CRAP, and sod Enterer, 8,

that To hai born thelaccountant for R.C.kcs1

Imported Clears Incorporated and R. C. W. Superv-ear,

Incorporated for epproximatoly ono yoar.

PICrAPe erated

that ho had proviouoly done accounting work for eraT

• WOOD beforo WOUD wont into partnoruhip with arro

AURIEMA. PiCKARD atated that whon AURIEM and wook forme

/as partnership, AURIElA supplied the finances, arid hence,

coired his own accountant.

PICKARD adv.tood that in doing tho accourine

work for the two firmo owned by ROBERT C. WOOD OF E=

I'oad Struct, New York City, he has at no time obsered

any funds coming to wOoD from Han improda

cuba, either Irom

the National Bank of Cuba or from

cuband i

Exportaciones.

PICKARD advioed that in the beginning of 1951,

when ROBERT C. WOOD startod his companios, the

firericing

wag. furnished by the Commorienl Trading Company of Fen

York city.

PICIARD stated that in approximately "s middle

on 1/0/62 at 55 West 42nd Strect, NXC_ P1lo #,155-2086

XY 3i FRANCIS J, O'BRITN/đbw

-_Dato dictated 1/9/62

This document

containa neither reconmendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It 1s the property of the FBI and 18 isanta to

your agency; it and 1ta contenta are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

---

## Page 6

NY 100-9086

Banque

PICKARD advlood that all

finnicing for the operations of WOOD are now handled by

Danque litra.

PICKARD furthor otated that ho hod never soon

any contract siagod by ROBERT C. WOUD and the Cuban

Govornment. PICKARD otated that the only information he

had relative to this matter was what WOOD had told him.

PICKARD stated that he, WOOD, was tho solo Importor of

cuban tobacco and tobacco leaf to the United States.

finice ined - 1961 seclucive us i

fisching femining to

Rotect C.10rd, it

troussets letter f

credit s

iMPRESA CUBANA

de EXPORTALiCIES

auto

---

## Page 7

PEDEARL EUREAU OF INVESTIOATION

Date

- 416/62

IF T-2 adilees on

Januarg 9, 1962, that

ROBERT C. HOOD CE RCA BITEEVLOOR,

Incorporatod, 85

erand staces, len lore City.

continueo to naintain an

8 west

account at the Trage tart ind truct company that the

48th

Strect, Ncs Xor% 6131.

NY T-d advised

actlvies in thia accoint

reflocts normal business

operationg and es of diary 9, 1902, the balance In

the accourt of RCA superincE, Incorporated, was

$3,011.00.

11 T-2 advized on January 9, 1962, that he

has not seen auy deccaiss 1n the RCH gupcryisor account

reflectire, that money sia received from the Cuban

Govurtinent.

1 T=2

adviced that depcalca in this

account refiect that Earque Intra,

S.A. O. Geneva,

Switzerlare in acting as the factoring arent for the

Row superleor, Incorgorated.

NY T-2

advised that

letters of credit are iscued by Panque Intra to Empresa

cubana do Exportaclores spainst documento for dellvery

of tobacco and tobacco leaf to the United Statoa.

IS T-2

advised that the recordo from which

tho above information nsa taken are no longer avallable.

871 I-2 states shat the foregoing information

should not be made puble except in the usual proceedinga

- following the issuance o° a eubpoena duced tecum and that,

thla Bubfoera chould ke iseued to MAXWELL HAUSER, Vice-

prosident, Trade Bank and Irust Company, New York CIty.

3 Waat Hath Street

On 4/9/62

• at New toEl City

_ Pile #_NY' 100-9086

DJ SA FILICIS J. O'ERIZ5: NeC

Date dictated 3/11/62

This docurent containa seither recommendations nor conclusions

or the Fel.

It 1s the progerty of the FEI and 1a loaned to

your agency; it and ita cortents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Ened risi Desuries

life ise.

NY 100-9086

MrS. AYPTIE HUERTA,

Januury 9.

Ad Aurterds1552,

sulith Anorican bussroos trip.

Ire. that Mr. Aurienas

85 Brond Sircet, New York Caly,

was currently on a

HIEnTA etated that ADOLFo?

AURIENA,

on December

28.hg, 1961, roletive to the hearing which was held

tentired in bade County court in Mind, Florida..

17 Mani concernine the selauro of a shipmont of trbacco

which wio dentined

TO ROBERT C. WOOD.

Mro. HUERTA utated that Sue.

this ohiomont of Cuban tobacco was peleca by court order ba

the Harrin Advert.ung Ageney of Mara, Florida,

1ri partial

paymont for money oned Harrid Advertising by the Cuban Government

of Prime Minister CASTRO.

NEB. HURRTA advisod on Jonuary 9, 1962, that she had

a short converuation with No. AURICMA bofore he wont to South

Amorica, and during the convoruation Mi. AURIEMA stated that

It epponred that the Harriu

Advertising Agency would be

accosuful in their nelaure of the Cuoan tosacco,

which was

destined for RObERT C. WOOD.

MURIEMA

told MeG. HUERTA that

tho tobacco celzuce by the Harris Advertioing Agency had

already been sold at auotion and brought a piice of 1a05, 000.00.

CHARLES ASKMANN; partner in the law firm of Cullmartin

Bartil and Ashmann,

1527 Dupont Duilding,

celephonically navided on January 30, 1962,

Advertining Agency of mart ritial phase of their sult

beon succendful in the

agninot the Cuban Governent, as they

roceivod a favorabla

rulinE 1n Dado Court, Court

rosarding the sale of tobaccos

which were deized in Tampa,

ASIMANN stated that the

tobacco solzed In Tamps, Floridn,

was designated to R. C. W.

Supervisor, Inc., which was headed by ROBERT C. WOOD.

ABrINAN stated that the proceeds of the sale of

cho tobacco brought a total of $205, 000.00, which together with

other secures made by the Harria Advertising Agency has

completely satiafied the debts incurred by the Cuban Government

with the Harris Advertioing Agency.

ASHMANN further advised

• on January 30, 1962,

that ROBERT C.

HOOD had brought suit

In Dade County Dintrict Court to prevent Harrin Advertising

Agency from recelving the proceeds realized from the salept

the seized tobacco designated to R. C. W. Supervisori, Ino.

- 8

---

## Page 9

• NY 100-9086

Astikar aleo beated on January 30, 1962,

that he

had heard

that there me another bust being brought against

ROBERT C.

WoOD an liew York State Cuprore Court by the

Three Star Trodire Company, which 1o corresentod by Attorrey

DHARD J. EINIS of lied York city.

not know the details of this suit, but had ocen intorned that

allegedly the ascounts of WOOD in various Now York banks were

to be garnished.

Asical aleo stated on January 30, 1962,

that the final

MOHIROE PERCY BLOCH, Attornay, Brush and Bloch, 21

W1111nm

streot, Non York City, by letter dated January 30,

1962,

furnished a the no-tax copy of an artiole wiich appeared

an tha cuban nemspeter, El hundo

, shich 13 publlehed in Miami,

Florida.

and 1d caption a 12 tea it eV Agende

Juinuary 14, 1962

Thin nens article stated that by rcoolutiona paased

by the Forelyn Coumorce Minister,

comendante ALBERTO HORA,

twelve commercial agencies were created to handle the functiona

formerly handled by inpreda Cubana de Exportaciones and Emprena

do Importachores (Cuben export agency and Cuban Import arency)•

This newo articlo stated that the cuban export and Cuban import:

agencies were aboliched on December 31, 1961.

The newn article stated that one of the twelve new

agencies created by Corandante ALBERTO MORA was Cubatabaco.

This agency 1B to handle all operations relating to leaf

tobacco and cut tobacco, cigara and cigarettes.

The records of the New York State Supreme Court,

County Clerks Office, 60 Centre Street,

New York CIty,

reflecto under inder numoer 18825 of 1961 that the three

Stars Trading Company was represented by EDWARD J. ENNIS,

Attorney, 165 Broadway, New York City.

The records of the New York State Supreme Court and

the papers which have been filed by EDIARD J. ENNIS reflect

the Three Stars Triding Company 18 located In Miami, Florida,

9

---

## Page 10

NY 100-9086

and 18 ouned by BEN WILINER of Florida and ANGELINA ARIZAS

O1 New Yurk.

In popora filed. Nith the New York State Suprene

court, the Three Stard Traoling Company piated that a iritten.

conüreet had boen aigned on Juse 25, 1960, with the Covorment

of cuba quarantcoing that tro million pounds of frozen shrimp

or a minimum

ol one million rounds of froran shrine would

be shipped anually to the United Statey fron Canaguey, Cuba.

Inmpers filcd with New Yor' State Supreme Court the Three

Stars Trading Corporation charged that the Republie of Cuba

shipment of shrimp inder the contract.

Stars Trading Corpany, 1n sung the Rentlle of Cuba

breach of contract and danages in the amount of $500,000.00.

The cooplaint weo flied In New crie Stato Suprere Court on

January 17,

1960.

The surmons was served by publication in

the

"New York Law Journal" and "Horning Telegraph".

New York

that he 1g a partner with

ED:ARD J.

Who currently 1s out of town on busineya,

IWAlK stated that they had been retained to represent the

Three Stare Trading Company 1n 1ts suit egalnot the Republio

of Cuba for breach of contract relative to shipment of frozen

shrimp to the Unicd States.

ZWAIK stated they had made Inquiries about money

held In United Stated banks by the Republlo of Cuba, but were

unsuccessiul and learned that the Republic of Cuba no longer

maintains

accounts In United States barko.

ZWAIK stated that

they have now decided to attempt to attac

the monies collected

by ROBERT C. WOOD OL R. C. W.

Suxervisor,

'85 Broad Street,

New York City, who 18 the sole importer of Cuban tobacco 1n

the United States.

ZWAIK stated that they are going on the

assumption that the tobasco, which WOOD 1a distributing in the

United States 1s actually the property of the Cuban Government

as WOOD receives a five per cent commission from the sale of

all tobacco in the United States.

wAlk advised that the

belleve that the money received by WOOD for the sale of Cubar

tobacco belongs to the Cuban Covernment, and they hose to have

a favorable decision handed donn in this matter by the New

York State Supremn Court,

10

---

## Page 11

14-00000

NY 100-9086

Zirm: advised that purquant to n court order of

the Menorable

SISTEL H.

NOFSTADIER,

ROBERT C.

loco red cramined by Exital J. ENNIS.

dated Jaruary 10, 1962,

During the

course of tre cirmination, HOOD has represented by HENRY

WINESTINE of tie law firm of Rabironitz and boudin.

Disars, the examination of RODERT C. WOOD,

1t was

ascertalred tur WOOD resides at 274 lest 19th Street, New

and that his to comporations, R. C.

Tow. and a C. Vood Inposted Croars, Ino. are located at

W. Supervisor,

85 Broad street, lizw York City.

Harrants of Attachment vere served on WOOD's corporations

on December 29, 1961.

Durkit, the examination by Attorney ENNIS,

WOOD

atated that he

etarted

in the

carar busineba In 1950 under

the name of Cirport Pinar del Rio Cizar Agency,

Inc. In

1953 this corpóration becare known as AURIEMA-WOOD Imported

January 1,

"Is: 261, ViCODe corporation them becane known as

until 1t was disolved on cocember 31, 1960.

On

R. C. Wood inported Cigars, Inc.

Corcerning the discussiona with individuals in

Havans, WOOD stated that he was

Interested In re-establishing

the cuban clear rarkei in the United States, as no/ cubar

cigars had been Imported Into the United States from Cuban

from December, 1900,

to May, 1901..

WOOD held discussions in

Havana regarding this matter with HECTOR VILLALON,

an Argentinian,

and

with SANTIAGO RIERA, Who was 1a charge of Consolidado del

Tabaco Torido.

During exarination by ENNIS, WOOD stated that

he did not run rnether or not RIFTiA was part of. the Cuban

Government or shether or not Consolidado was part of the

Cuban Governent.

On February 22, 1961, after many discussions in

Havana,

WOOD a1zed a contract

with the Bank of Forcien

Commerce, end he stated that this contract was signed in the

offIce of SAiLINGS RIERA,

and that his office was

the office

of Consolidado del Tabaco Torido, vinich 18 located In a new

building 1a Plaza Civica, Havana, Caba.

WOOD stated that he

aid not know wether this was a government building or not.

11

---

## Page 12

14-00000

NY 200-9086

Durian, the exandration of WOOD 1t wao

also pointed

out that in parscoach six of loOds contract of Feomary 22,

1951, R.. C.

ised Imported Cigain

1s called "Supervisor",

nd s 10 noted that ordors for cisaro

from Cuba muat be sent

by the Supervicor to the Bank for E:terior Commerce of Cube,

and that necessars letters of credit would run in favor of

"Empreba Cubara de Exportaciones".

NOD aldo stated during his examination by INNIS

that he had best: ziven pover of attorney to sottle disputes

kith other anarican importers for bad shipnenta and other

legitimate clai-s agairot Cuban cigaro factories. WOOD claimed

that the clear fectonihad this power in February,

delegato pover of attorney to him,

and he also stated that the

tobacco factoriair. Cuba today function as they did in the past

and are under a trustceship.

WOOD aloo claimed that the

Interventor or adminiatrator of the tobacco f'actodehas tho

power of attories for the foctodes. WOOD said he did not lanow

1f the Interventor was a government official or not.

also clained that he did not know who put the interventor in

charge of the verious tobacco factodeswhich had been Intervened

by the Cuban Government.

WOOD alao stated during his examination by ENNIS

that he receives hia nower of attorney from elght os mino

factortesand that this pover of attornoy was cigned by

the Interventor of the particular tobacco factories. It was also

noted that in a letter dated March 27, 1961, WOOD Intormed

ME. DONALD OPIUSS, President, Faber, Coe and

drege, that he,

NOOD,

had been entrusted with power of attorner from

"Consolidade de la Industria Tabaco Habana"

WOOD also advised that he had been entrusted to

comatasions to people in the United States for the saie offas

cuban tobaccoa wich were cue to them prior to

the intervention

of Cuban tobacco factorinduring September, 1960.

that this author ty was given to him orally by the various

Interventors,

an that payment of commissions,to individuals

In the United States was made through the lav firm of Rabinowitz

and Boudin.

• 12

sist

---

## Page 13

NY 100-9085

In cornection

with the financing of WOOD's operation,

he ntated during

718

exarration by ENNIS that he reccived

fimancing.ortg.nally fr

the Conmercial Trading Corporation,

1440 Broadway,

New York. Carj,

and the

Royal Bark of Canada,

Montrerl Branch, Montreal,

Canada.

100D stated that due to

tho high Interest rate, i

was forced to seck other financing

and made a trip to. Cerere,

hitzertand, where he net d.d

BESTAUROS Of BICACO S. BA

Yich 15 a corporation cat up 18

Switzerland so hendle

the deportation and sale of Cuban

• tobacco in aurope..

WOOD stated that HECTOR VILLALOM naG a

one quarter partner in franco.

WOOD advised that through

RESTAVROS,

they were

able to actua Prancing. to and a tra hey asa

not huve to put up any collateral with Banque Intra and letterg

of credit were initiated on the solvency and integrity of

WooD's firms ard on the perconal guaranteo of WOOD ErA BESTAVROS,

plus the guaranteo of a costract between Dienco and R. C. W.

Supervicor,

Ino.

WOOD stated that Buenco 18 now a fifty per

cent partner in R. C. V. Lapervisor, Ino.

ZAIK stated tre+ Mr. ENNIS las not satlefied

with

all the ansters given by wrid,

and the exanination

of hoOd was

terminated nith the understanding that he may be re-cramined

at a future date agreeaole to both parties.

STANLEY M. ZHALl on February 5,

1962,

furnished

copy of the artidavit co ta. EDUARD J.

ENNIS which wer filed

In New York State Suprera Court, New York County,

January 17,

1952.

The affidavit of Mr. EDWARD J. ENlIS reade

au follows:

"SUPREME COURT OF TZ STATE OF NEW YORK

"COUNTY OF NEW YORK

.."THRES STARS TRADDIS COMPANY

plaintift

VS.

: Index. lio, 18825-1961

AYZIDAVIT

"REPUBLIC OF CUBA

Defendant

13

---

## Page 14

14-00000

NY 100-9035

"STATE OF NEW YORK

"COURTY' OF NEW YORK

SS:-

"EDWARD J. ENNIS, being duly anorn, deposes and says:"

"1. I am plaintirl's Attorney in this action and make

this arrastit in support of an application for an order

direating the service of the summons lipon the defendant by

publication puruuant to and in compliance nith C.P.A.

232-2 and 232-b.

"2. Naturo of this action. • A copy of the summons here.

1n dated and 1baued Novembor 3, 1961 and of the complaint

verified January 16, 1962 11 8 CAuse of actioa to recover a

sun of nonoy only against the defendant 18 annexed heroto and

"marked Stilbits A. and B. Thie 1u an action upon a uritten

contract betseen the plaintiff and the defendant to recover

damages for defendantra failuro and refusal to ship to

plaintiff at least 1, 000.000 pounds of frozen shrimp anualiy

as required by the written contraot.

"3. Defendant foreign corporation. - Defendant 18 &

foreign state and the government thereof and as such a

forelen public corporation conatituted and existing under the

Jaws of the Republlo of Cuba. The afflant has ascertained by

diligent Inguiry that defendant, upon the termination of

14

---

## Page 15

NY 100-9086

"asplomatio rojations between the defendant and the dovernaen:

of the Used Staton on January 3, 1951 and prior to the

cormencemet of this action, reared its diplomatic and

consular officiola and other rentsentatives from the united

States and closod its formar Carsulato at 625 Madison

Avenue, New York, N. Y. After diligent offort by afflant 1a

socking and falling to find a reprecentative of defendant to

sorve in Haw York plaintiff has seen unable to find, and vill

bo unable to find, any roprosen stavo of the defendant in

the State of Now York upon won the summons could be served

since the commencement of this astion.

"4, Levy of warrant of atsachrent. - On Docember 27,

1S61 the sheriff of tho Clty of liar York larked the attach-

ment by serving certified copies of the second warrant of

attachment in this action dated Lucember 22, 1961 on R. C.

Wood Imported Cigars, Ino, and R. C. H. Supervisor, Inc..

New Yoris corporations at their place of buziress, 85 Broad

Street, New York, N.Y. On Janusy 4, I962 the sald two

corporations by their President f. C.. hood certified to the

sheriff that they had ino property' of the defendant. But

by order of this Court dated Janusry 10, 1952 the said two

corporations were ordered to appes. to be examined by their

15

---

## Page 16

14-00000

te."

8:8 100-9086

"preaident under oath concorning any property of the de

fendant in thoir poscession or any debte ored by them to

thọ defendant'.

"5. Debto of Defendant in New York, - Tie eanination

of the tuo corporations by R. C. Wood on Janunty 16, 1962

discloses that at least one of the tho corporations, R. C. W.

supervisor, Inc.• 1o the debtor of the eefendant for the

prico and proceeda of cuban cigars extored by defendant

from Cuba to the United Statea for dole cere and the proceedo

of which have not yot been paid to the defendant. On his

examination Mr. lood produced a copy of tre contract dated

Rebruary 22, 1961, amended September 25, 1361 Khich recites

that the Minister. of Foreign Commerce of Cába created

Empresa Cubana Exportacioned to oarry out the contract with

R. C.W. Suporvisor, Inc. The lovernment of cuba, by

'Intervention' has taken over and nationalized the business

of manufacture and exportation of cigars formerly conducted

by private business concerns. The contract provides that

R.C.W. Supervior, Inc. In designated 'The Supervisor of the

castribution and sale of all brands of Havana cigars In the .

United States. The Supervisor will recelve for its compensa

16

---

## Page 17

.6

"thon 5% of tho invoice value on cigaro ordered directly sy

Tho supervioor and a in conmissis" on the taroice vallo of

cigars not ordered throuch The Svervioor, "ie contraot

further provides that The Supervisor Will Gren a letter of

credit and illl affect parent so draft dated So dayo. Mr.

Wood teatifled that Barque Intra, s Sidas burd, providad a

letter of credit under mhich it agrond to pay Expresa for

cigArs shippod 60 days after the esto of the tillo of lading.

Por this sorvicó R.C.V. Supervisos, Inc, gave inque Intra

trade ecooptenco payahlo'in 55 day and desoultd with trade

Banks and Trust Company, 8 licot 1i1 Streot, Isa York, N.Y.

to be paid whon due to Banque Intra'e New York, correspondent

bank for Banque Intra's account. Nr. hood taptifled that on

December 29, 1961 when the second warrant of attachment was

served on. R.C.W. SuparviBor, Inc, ard at the breßent time

there 10 unpald for cigars shipped to 1t from cuba over

$100,000 and that there are trade suceptances of R.C.W.

Supervisor, Ine. in the possession of Trade lari and Trust

Company for this unpald amount. I, Wood also testified that

R.C.V. Suporvisor, Inc, did rot psy its trade acceptances

when due on a shipment of cigars seized in Targa, florida by

17

---

## Page 18

14-00000

N: 100-9086

"a crositor of the Republio of cuba and sold at auction an

property of the Repuullo of cuba bacause in the absence of

cigaro and the procooda therofrom R.C.M. Supervisor, Inc: i:

did not have the funds to honor these trade acceptances.

"6. Levy on dalto and crunes of astion 12 len York. =

C.P.A. 916, as Emunded and extenced, expressly subjects to

attachment any debt or cause of ection arcing out of con-

tract due to defendant from any person or corporation upon

nhom

service may be made In Naw York County and for nich

debt or causo of action th defendant could sue in lien York.

The statute expressly provides that the lery which has been

made by the Sheriff on this case, constitutea a seleure of

all of the rights of the defendant in the debte of caußes

of action die to the dofendant.. Adittedly, by the testimony

of 1to President, R. C. Wood, R.C.H, Superricor, Inc. has

received shipments of cigars from the defendant for stich the

defendant has not you been paid and for mich over 1200,000

18 due. R.C.V. Supervisor, Inc, cansot take the position as

purchaser that it does not owe the seller for the cizars

simply because it has secured the parents due by arranging •

for a Shias Bank outside New York aid not eubject to attach-

ment to ibaue a 60 day letter of credit for the purchase

18-

"Al!

---

## Page 19

•4.G3

18: 100-9086

¡nico to tha defendant in exchango for R.C.W. Süper11s05, s.

Inc'a agrcement to provide the bank with 55 day trade

suceptances due five dajs prior to the time the baú 1o re.

quired to honor 1ts letter of credit to the defendant. The

Jaw of New York 1e clear that.

the sasuance of the letter

credit does not affect the purchaser's contractual obligations

to pay the seller, and a contract entirely suparate from the

buyer's obligation to por the seller. The 'issuance of such

jetter of credit was obvlously not a puyment of (the buyerio)

debt to (pezler) but merely provided a means by which the

latter could obtain payment **#" Bank of United States v.

Seltzor 333 A.D. 225, 251-NY.S. 63, 644 (18t Dept); cf.

Anjury Park and Ocean Gluie Panic V. National City Punk 35

N.Y.S. 2d 965 (Shientag, I.). If the bank falls to honor the

letter of credit the buyer renains liable for the price of

tho goods received fron the seller. Therefore a debt from

R.C.W. Supervisor, Inc. to defendant in excess of $100,000

presently exists and has been attached and seized by the

lovy. If R.C.W. Supervisor, Ins, wishes to contend that 1t

does not one Cuba for the cigars because de the outstandiag

letter of credit 1t has its remedy by application in the

action or affidavit under C.P.A. S924 for a determination

that there 1s not debt to Cuba subject to attachment

• 19.

---

## Page 20

NY 100-2086

"Under the terms of the aforesaid written agreement of

February 22, 1961 with Empresa, the sovernmental agency of

the Republic of cuba established by the Ministry of Foreign

Commerce to handle Cuban exports (reported in the Officlal

Gazette of the Republic of Cuba, p.8894, March 3, 1961),

R.C.W. Supervisor, Inc. 1s appointed as "The Supervisor of the

distribution and sale of all brands of Havana cigars In the

Unated Statea for fixed Colaslona OS'5% and 27 of Involoe

prices with a provloion that the supervisor cannot 1n%01ce

the distributors at a higher price than that provided in the

Involces from Papresa to. R.C.W. Supervisor, Inc. Under the

terns of this contract it may eventually be determined that

R.C.W. Supervisor, Ino, 18 sot a purchaser of the cigare.

but merely the agent of the defendant Republic of Cuba so

that the funds in 1ts hands received from distributors are

the property of the Republic of Cuba and not merely a debt

owed by R.C.W. Supervinor, Inc. to the Republic of Cuba. It

1s not now necessary, however, to resolve this legal question

because It 18 afficient. for purposes of attachrient 1f thero

1a a debt or cause of action due to Cuba from R.C. W.

Super-

visOr,

Inc.

---

## Page 21

14-00000

lone

18Y 100-9086

"7. No prior npplicatio: has been nado for this relief.

HEREFDRE, Plaintiff prars that the order for service

of the sumona by publication issue.

Is/ EDWARD J. ENTIS

"Sworn to before me this

17th day of January, 1962.

NY T-I on February 8, 1952, auvised that a review of

the account maintained by ROBERT C. HOOD at the Manufacturers

Hanover Trust Company, 60 Broadway, New Yorks City, failed to

reflect any signifioant information during the month of January,

1962, and the first days of February, 1962.

NY 1-1 advised that ho had examined deposita made to

thio account, and the deposito fall into two categories:

1.. Money received from factors;

2.

Honey

received from cigar distributors for

deliveries of cigars by ROBERIS, WOOD.

association with R. C.

advised on February 8,

Inc. and ROBERT C. WOOD

27: =

---

## Page 22

14-00000

187 100-9086

continurs es it has in the poot.

GaosSmaiN stated that period-

1cally they 41ll advance money to wooy zuninot goodi resclinble.

nrossmili etacod that WOOl cecks an advancenent

fron Commercial

rrading in order to meet his normal busineco exychoco to pay

customs duties on cicaro and also to maintain i13 stock.

LEO:HED PICKARD, Certified Puble Accountant, Pickard

55 nest 42nd Strect, Now York City,

February 8, 1952,

that his relationchip with Mr. ROBERT C.

Bame and he continuco

to do accounting vorit

for WOOD und todd's corporations.

PICKARD stated that he

did not know what cffect the recent Urited Stater covernment

decision refranz prohibiting the importion of Cuban cigare

wi1l do to his association with wood.

ADOLPO AURTEMA, SR., Ad Aurlema, Ino., 85. Broad

on February B, 1962, adviced that he had

tootified In Minni,

his ausociation lith wOOD.

1n Miami was relative to tho recent pcisure of tobacco by

Harria Advertiring Agency in order to sottlo an accout which

was oned larcis by the Cuban Government.

SUPIENA advised that on February 8, 1952, He wrote

a lotter to WOOD advining that WOOD would have to vacate

premises which he now occupies at 85 Broad Street by May 31,

AUruEMA stated that in orielnal lonse signed with WOOD,

1t was agreed thet on My 31, 1962,

wOOD would vacate the

premises as thece prerisco were rented by AURIEMA and AURIEMA

neuded then for expansion of hin own business.

AURIENA stated

that his letter of February 8, 1962, was answered on February 9.

and 1t vas stated that R. C. Wood Imported Cigars would

to another location by May 31, 1962.

AUPIENA advised that the letter from WOOD's office

dated Februory 5, 1962,

was written by CARLOS DUNN and in the

AURIENA advioed that

he believed that WOOD was now in lavana, Cuba, but wis not

absolutely positive of 1t.

SCHROE PERCY BIOCH, 27 William Street, New York CIty,

who 1e representinz former Cuban cigar manufacturers. in the

United Statea District Court relative to the seckine of an

22

---

## Page 23

-19"

NT 100-3086

i-metion against. WOOD aid his fimo, allised on february B, 1962,

tini there has been no now devolopmento an this

matter,

he

smicipaied being in contact with Unted States Fodcral Judye

FARDERICK VAN PELT BAY: in tie near future.

NY I-31

sauted that he had no lonowledge of the proser miereaborts of

nor did he have any knowledge of NoCD being in Havana,

casa, st the preoent time.

Concerning Rabinowits and Boadin, Dentiorad

patriously, the following is noted:

"partindale-Hubbell Law Director",

1081, reflecte that VICIOR RABINOWITE ANd LSONINO B. BOUDIN are

scorneys and formed the firm of Rabinowita and Joudin, 25

Suad Street, Now York Clty.

column 1,

contained.an 1ten dated April

To "Dally Korles" on Apr11 6829p

1956.

_Bage 2;

1956 2* PIttsburgh,

Fensylvania, which reflected that VICTOR

RAURO:ITZ Kas the

-accoracy who

succeosfilly carried the case of SIEVE ILISON

so: the supremo Court of the United States.

me crtiche

resiected that NELSON was convicted under the sedition law of

the State of Pennsylvanla and that the Ualted States

The Communist Party (CP.), USA, has bean

desionated by the Attorney General of the

United States pursuant to Executive Order

10450.

The "Dally Worker" wag an Esat coast

Communist cally newspaper which suspendod

publication January 13, 1958.

Lawyers"

the official publication of the New York Chepter

me Natlonal Lawyers Guade ONto

jiated the o.ficers. and

FASJOWITZ was among those listed.

23

---

## Page 24

14-00000

I8: 100-2085

The duo do characterized in the Appendir of thio

roport.

On February 13, 1959, Ir! I-ll adviced sost VICSCR

RADINCUITE WaS & rOMbOr

of the

Fergoncy Cili: ibertien Cormitteo (ECIC),

The I0io da oharacterizod in the Appester of thia

report.

KY T-5 advised on Jurs 21,

1950,

that ESONArD B.

POUDIN 123 a cc=-2a19d

member of the CP and actively associated

with CP fronts during the 1940's.

24

N2л:2181

---

## Page 25

2115%

188 102-9036

APPENDIX

ENEROTICY CIVIL ITANCIES COELAMEE

The "Guide to Subversive Orgarizationa and

publicacions", reviced and rublished is of January 2, 19ST,

prepared

and relcased by the Cornitter on Un-Americe

hotivities, United Stateo House of Representatives, nestareton,

D. C..

contains the folloring concerning the Ensiger @vll

uberares Connittee:

"I.

"Enorgenoy Clull Inborties Comittee

ITo defend tho cases of Couranist

lawbroakors, fronto have been devised

maling coccial uppeals in veralt or

c1v11 libortioo and roachins; out far

beyond the confines of the Corminist

arty stood.

Anong thees organlia.os

are the a*a perrency Cavll LDer+€

Cornittce.

won the Corminiet Party

Itoelf 10 under firo thece fronto offer a

bulwark of protection. '

(Intornal Security Subcormittce of the

Senate Judiciary Cormittee, Handbook

for Americans

1956, P. 94.16 3. Doc. 117, Apr11 23,.

25

---

## Page 26

- ...

15: 100-2074

Alainion

MATIONAL LEONG' GUID

This

Guice to SiT: 0an12061015 an

revised ot

Tantary 2.

assi, prepared and relera.á

-American

ictertles,

cones 10.1s

machington,

-.C.

alone Lagers suhar?

conlonine concoralia fie

"National lingere Guild

"1.

citer as a cunnilet front.

(Spectal Curious on Un-inerican

ActIVitIeS,

moans Report 1321 On tho

March 29, Jai, do 1190)

"2.

cited as a commies front which 11s.

the fosomose lonel buriaric oi tho

communist tur

its front orcanirations,

and controlled

intones and which 'uince

1tn inceptis moo noser falled to ally

to the luend exfones of the commutat

Party and In :16051 menbery thorcor,

Including koo: coreonage acerto.

(committee or

House Report

2423 09 the Notional

ayers Guilt,

scoacher 21, 19,0g

alainally redcauca Septerber di, 1950.

"3.

"To dafond the vacco of communiot

lavoreakers, Eronto have been durined

malitig spocial soocals in beholf

of

libartico and asachine

out far beyond the

contines of the comunlot party itself.

Among these carnizations are tho o#

lational Lamere Gallo.

When the

Communict Party 142e11 13 uncor firo

these orrer & milwark ef protection. '

Internal Scorits rubcommittea of the

senate Jidiciary Comnittee, Hondbook

for AveriCiTE

1956, D. Si. 11 4a DOC- 117, April 231

---

## Page 27

14-00000

.....

UNITSIO STATES DEJANIMENT OF JUSTICE

1572E

Dre digi, Marano tire do

New York, New

York

February 21 • 1962

P.e:

Robert C. Wood

incurity fattor C;

Itcarl Cocurity - Cuba;

üczastratien Act - Cuba

Roforence is rado to tre report of Special Neent

Francig J. O'Paler, 1a.es and capisoned as above at New. Yoris.

111 cources (except any listed below) uned in referenced

communication have funered relable Information in the past.

NY I-lar 11 1-2 are Informants who are in a

position to turniet rable information,

and IT/ T-3 10 an

anformant with who corset has bsen inuufficient to deternine

Inis desment contains neither

reconcertations nor conclusione

of the F21.

It is the property

of the 73I

and 1s loared to your

agerog; it and ite contents are

not. ta.

ze distributed outside

51Iel. 42.

14-125=3

---

