# 104-10183-10340a

## Page 1

104-10183-10340

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only:

Do Not Reproduos

DISPATCH

CHIEF, WH

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USE 210% Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

PROCESSING ACTION

CAINÉO FOR INDEXING

ОКіНЕ ВАРИКАР

CHIEF OF STATION PA

TAVE

ROPERATIONAL TONIG

DEBRISFLNG OF AMMUG-1'S WIFE

E HERRE

FYI AND FILES

DIR

07.719,

-DATEQ

6 MAY 1965

WAVE 1659.

DATED

8 MAY 1965

OFL

MCO

2a. A yodo

1205N689.552

AMBLINK-1 CONDUCTED A THOROUGH DEBRIEFING OF 'AMMUG-1'S WIFE

IN MEXICO CITY SHORTLY AFTER HER ARRIVAL FROM CUBA.

WHICH TOOK PLACE DURING THE PERIOD 26-30 APRIL 1965.

THE DEBRIEFING,

INCLUDED THE

ACQUISITION. OF A PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT AND A DETAILED ACCOUNT

OF HER EXPERIENCES AND CONTACTS WITH THE CUBAN AUTHORITIES AFTER®:

THE DEFECTION OF HER HUSBAND IN APRIL 1964.

IN ORDER TO EXPEDITE

THE TRANSMITTAL OF SUBJECT'S DEBRIEFING ON

HER CUBAN IS CONTACTS

AS REQUESTED IN REFERENCE A, •THE CHRONOLOGICAL ACCOUNT OF HER ACTIV-

ITIES AND CONTACTS IS BEING FORWARDED IN THIS DISPATCH WHEREAS THE

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT WILL BE SENT IN A SUBSEQUENT DISPATCH.

OF TIME WAS SPENT BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING AN EXIT PERMIT FROM THE

ON THE LAST DAY OF THE DEBRIEFING 130 APRILI A GREAT DEAL

MEXICAN GOVERNMENT AND IN EXPEDITING HER DEPARTURE FROM MEXICO,

CONSEQUENTLY PERSONALITY DATA ON THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS IS STILL

PENDING AND WILL BE OBTAINED AFTER SUBJECT RETURNS TO THE UMWAVE

GISELA FCOFIND - A FRIEND OF EVA RODRIGUEZ WHO LEARNED

OF SUBJECTS DEPARTURE FROM CUBA AND VHC MAY HAVE INNOCENTLY INSTI-

GATED THE RENEWED OSE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT IN APRIL 1965.

EMILIA CONTINO - SUBJECT'S NEXT DOCR NEIGHBOR IN THE

APARTMENT HOUSE ON CALLE G BETWEEN CALLES 21 AND MORRO, COSIMAR.

DISTRIBUTION

BY

TAPE

3 - WH/C

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DI8. 5-1

DISPATCH SYMBOL NO NUMBER

UFGA - 21604

CASSiACATION

5=03: -

/ CONTINUED/

MT7:

Ferred

=01- 147651

1009-71 ta 206

DATE

17 MAY 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

2030÷15651

---

## Page 2

104-10183-10340

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECREI

UFGA - 21604 PAGE 2

MARIA GOMEZ - HEAD OF THE 'SECCIONAL • OF THE

• 'COMITE DE DEFENSA'".

IN SUBJECTS DISTRICT.

MARIA ACCOMPANIED THE

TWO DSE AGENTS THAT INTERVIENED. SUBJECT ON HER FORMAL APPLICATION:

TO LEAVE CUBA.

D.

AND SIGNED HIS NAME TO THE HOUSEHOLD INVENTORY FORM AND THE

IMMIGRATION SEAL ON BACK OF HER PASSPORT.

MARIA *MENDIVER - PRESIDENT OF THE COMITE NEXT.

SUBJECT'S HOUSE •

ROBERTO LNU/ - A POLICEMAN FRON THE GUANABOLOA

HAVANA STATION WHO ADVISEO SUBJECT ON HOW TO CONDUCT HERSELF IN

WINNING OVER THE COMITES TO HER SIDE:

AN UNTDENTIFIED OSE AGENT WHO INTERVIEWED SUBJECT AT

HER APARTMENT IN

COMPANY. WITH RAMOS,

AN UNADENT

IFIED FEMALE CLERK EMPLOYED BY GUB

LINES WHO HANDLED SUBJECT'S RESERVATIONS AND THORET ARRANGEMEN SIRE

AT THE AIRPORT.•

THE CHRONOLOGICAL ACCOUNT AS RELATED BY SUBJECT OF HER

EXPERIENCES AND ACTIVITLES FROM THE TIME OF THE DEFECTION OF HER

12 APRIL 1964 - AMMUG-I LEFT CUBA ON THIS DATE,

INFORMING SUBJECT

THAT HE WAS GOING TO CANADA ON A MISSION FOR THE GÓC.

HE TOLD HER:

NOTHING MORE AND SHE HAD NO IDEA AS TO HIS SPECIFIC MISSION.

CIRCA 30 APRIL 1964 -

A NEIGHBOR,

SUBJECT CONFIDENTIALLY THAT A

•'G-2'* CAR WITH FIVE MEN INSIDE.

PARKED OUT FRONT AND A MAN HAD RAPPED CN HER DOCR TWO DAYS EARLIER

, CIRCA 28 APRIL 1964/.

WHEN THE NEIGHBCRS INFORMED THE *G- 2'•

AGENTS THAT SUBJECT SPENT THE DAYS WITH HER MOTHER,

THEY ASKED TO

SEE THE PRESIDENT OF THE LOCAL •'COMITE DE DEFENSA.

B. ALTHOUGH SUBJECT SUSPECTED THE ''G=2! ' WISIT WAS

RELATED IN SOME WAY WITH HER HUSBAND,

SHE DID NOT KNOW THE DETAILS.

SHE DID NOT, HWEVER, DISCUSS HER HUSBAND WITH THE ''COMITE."'

CIRCA 12 JUNE 1964 - ABOUT TWO MONTHS AFTER HER HUSBAND LEFT,

SUBJECT WAS GIVEN A LETTER BY HER MAILMAN WHICH HAD BEEN OPENED AND

NO ATTEMPT WAS MADE TO DISGUISE THE FACT THAT

THE LETTER HAD BEEN OPENED.

THE LETTER / POSTMARKED IN MEXICO AND

ADDRESSED TO HERI WAS IN HER HUSBAND'S HANDWRITING. BUT WAS UNSIGNED.

HE SAID HE WAS SORRY FOR THE DECISION HE HAD TAKEN AND ASKED HER

TO TELL HER PARENTS THAT HE HAD NOT ABANDONED HER.

SHE ANSWERED

THE LETTER IMMEDIATELY SENDING IT TO THE RETURN ADORESS HE GAVE.

SHE DID NCT PLACE ANY RETURN ADDRESS CN THE LETTER AND MAILED IT.

COMPLAINED TO THEM OF HER ILL FORTUNE.

CIRCA 28 JUNE 1964 - A.

SUBJECT STATED THAT SHE WENT THROUGH

A TERRIBLA ORDEAL DURING THIS PERIOD AND DID NOT KNCW WHAT TO MAKE

OF THE SITUATICN•

SHE DESCRIBED HERSELF AS A BUNDLE OF NERVES AND

BEGAN • TO SHCW THE STRAIN.

•BOUT A WEEK AFTER HER HUSBAND'S LETTER ARRIVED,

ROSSED PATHS WITH THE DICOMITE I PRESIDENT MARIA MENDIVER WHO ASKED

MATTER OF FACTLY HOW SHE WAS AND IF SHE HAD HEARD FROM HER HUSBAND.

SUBJECT TOOK THE OCCASION TO RELATE IN AN EMOTIGNAL MANNER THAT YER

HUSBAND HAD ABONDONED HER, BUT THAT SHE HAD RECEIVED A LETTER FROM

¡SUBJECT SUSPECTS THAT MARIA HAD HEARD OF THE LETTER FROM HER

NEIGHBORS./ SUBJECT CALLED HER HUSBAND ALL SORTS OF HAMES FOR

COSSERTING HER AND TRIED TO EVCREPUTY BY STATIVE THAT HER HUSBANDO

USE PREMOUS EDITION

— CONTINUEO

17 Mayes

---

## Page 3

104-10183-10340

CONTINUATION OF

, DISPATCH

SECREI

DISPATCH STRAMOL ANO MURGER

UFGA - 21604 PAGE 3

BEEN CHEATING ON HER AND HAD ON CECASION STAYED AWAY AT NIGHT

LATER SHOWING UP WITH LIPSTICK ON HIS UNDERCLOTHING.

SHE ADDED SHE

HAD •CONSIDERED A SEPARATION BEFCRE THIS INCIDENT.

APPARENTLY WORKED AS MARIA THEN TOLD HER NOT TO WORRY AND TO LEAD

HER OWN LIFE AS HER HUSBAND WAS NOT WORTH WAITING FOR CR WORRYING

ABOUT ENHE HAD ASCO WREN TRETO 2 CAME LOCKING FOR HER AND ASKE

SHE KNEW HE HAD FLEO WHEN THE G-2 CAME LOCKING FOR HER

MANY, QUESTIONS ABOUT HER. MARIA THEN RELATED THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS

THE •'G-2* HAD POSED AND HER ANSWERS -

G-2 - WHAT KIND OF A PERSON IS SHE?

MARIA - A GOOD DECENT PERSON.

G-2 - HAS SHE CRITICIZED THE

GOVERNMENT?

MARIA - I'D BE COMMITTING AN INJUSTICE

IF 1: SAID SHE WAS.

G-2 - DID YOU SÉE HER •GET IN OR OUT OF STRANGE EARS?. :.

MARIA - NO.

G-2 - DOES

SHE HAVE STRANGE PERSONS /UNKNOWN PERSONS/ IN HER

HOUSE AS VISITORS?.

MARIA - NO.

G-2 - HOW DOES SHE LIVE?

MARIA - HER PARENTS SUPPORT HER.

MARIA ADVISEO SUBJECT TO LEAD A NORMAL LIFE AND TO GO

TO HER MOTHER'S HOUSE EVERY DAY.

IF SHE WENT OUT,

WITH HER MISISTER-IN-LAW'• GISELA CONFINI AND SHOULD NOT BE SEEN

TALKING WITH STRANGERS AS HER EVERY STEP WAS BEING WATCHED.

/THE G-2/ WERE LOOKING FOR THE LEAST EXCUSE TO PLACE HER IN PRISON.

END OF JUNE 1964 - A.

A MAN IDENTIFYING HIMSELF AS BEING FROM.

THE " 'REFORMA URBANA''

CAME TO HER APARTMENT AND TOLD HER THAT HER

HUSBAND HAD EXILED HIMSELF. HE SAID THAT THE ''REFORMA URBANA'!

WAS INITIATING AN INVESTIGATION TO SEE IF SHE HAD LIVED LONG ENOUGH

IN THE APARTMENT / ONE YEAR/ •

•IF NOT, SHE WOULD HAVE TO VACATE THE

APARTMENT.

HE CHECKED THE CONTRACT AND THE RENTAL RECEIPTS WHICH

SHOWED SHE HAD LIVED MORE THAN THE REQUIRED YEAR AND THE INSPECTOR

HER TO GO TO THE REFORMA URBANA' I CFFICE IN GUANABOCOA IN ÁBOUT

VERIFIED IT WITH THE •'COMITE' PRESIDENT.

FOUR DAYS AND BRING WITH HER A LETTER FROM HER HUSBAND'S PLACE OF

EMPLOYMENT STATING WHERE HE WAS AND THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF HIS EXILE.

THIS, HE SAID, WAS ESSENTIAL IN ORDER FOR HER TO KEEP THE APARTMENT.

SUBJECT WENT TO COMPLY WITH THE REQUEST OF THE

• ' REFORMA

URBANA:, INSPECTOR.

SHE KNEW THAT HER HUSBAND HAD WORKED

FOR THE ' MINISTERIO DE COMERCIO EXTERICR''

SO SHE WENT TO THE

MINCOMEX OFFICES IN WHAT USED TO BE THE BACARDI BUILDING ON CALLE

MONSERRATE IN HAVANA WHERE SHE EXPLAINED HER CASE TO THE INFORMATION

SHE WAS TOLD THAT HER HUSBAND NEVER WORKED THERE.

SHERKAS THEN SENT TO ANOTHER MISCONEX BUILDING ON CALLE 23 AND

SHE WAS THEN SENT

INFANTA IN VEDADO, HAVANA WHERE SHE AGAIN EXPLAINED HER CASE TO THE

RECEPTIONIST AND WAS SENT TO THE ''DIPLOMATIC DEPARTMENT.''

SHE SPOKE TO A GIRL IN THE OFFICE WHO TOLD HER THAT HER HUSBAND WAS

UNKNOWN TO THEM.

ALTHOUGH MORTIFIED BY THIS RUN-A-ROUND,

SUBJECT

WENT BACK TO THE BACARDI BUILDING WHERE SHE KNEW HER HUSBAND HAD

WORKED AND INSISTED ON SEEING THE CHIEF OF PERSONNEL.

ALLOWED TO TALK TO THIS MAN WHOSE NAME SHE COULD NOT

RECALL AND

PLEADED FOR HIS HELP IN OBTAINING THE LETTER.

HE. FINALLY BROUGHT

CUT WHAT HE SAID WAS HER HUSBAND'S FILE AND SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN

TRANSFERRED TO ANTHER MINISTRY BUT CFFERED NO DETAILS.

TO APPEAL TO HIM REPEATING THAT HER HUSSAND HAD DESERTED HER AND

SECUNDERSPEREZO SAFER EE SPERSCANEL

TYE MAN BROKE DOWN AND TELEPHONED

OF PERSONNEL OF MINREX EXPLAINING THAT SUBJECT

WAS THE WIFE OF AMMUG-I AND NEEDED A LETTER FOR THE ''REFORMA URBANA.''

THE PERSONNEL. CHIEF SENT HER TO THE 'MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES.

EXTERIORES' , SHE SAYS IT WAS IN BACK OF THE LINEA MATERNITY

HOSPITALI SHERE SHE TRIED. TO EXPLAIN HER CASE TO PEREZ BUT CUND UP

TELLING HER STORY TO HIS SECRETARY, A GIRL KNOWN ONLY AS ELSIE ILNUI.

ELSIE KEPT TELLING HER TO COME BACK THE NEXT DAY. SUBJECT KEPT

CLASSIFICATION

¡ PAGENO

FORM

4. 6* 530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

i CONTINUED

---

## Page 4

104-10183-10340

•CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRE

UFGA-¿ 1604 PAGE 4

RETURNING ALMOST DAILY FOR ABOUT : MENTH

CURING WHICH TIME SHE

"EVER SAW PEREZ.

¡HILE WAITING OUTSIDE PEREZ'

SUBJECT LAS SO TIRED OF

BERLE GIVER TRE RUI-A-ROUND THAT SE APPROACHED PEREZ AND PLEZDED

FOR THE LETTER.

PEREZ ANSIERED EY

1•IN BACK: OF YOUR

THERE ARE GREAT AND GREE

SECHLE STAT SHE TOLO HIM SHE KNEW

HUSBAND OF HER HUSBAND'S ACTIVITIES SUT LEEDED THE LETTER OR FACED

PEREZ PROMISED TO HAVE THE LETTER READY BY THE NEXT DAY.

WHEN SHE RETURNED THE NEXT DAY SHE: *ITED ABOUT THREE HOURS FOR A

CLERK TO TYPE THE LETTER WHICH SHE TOOK INSIDE PEREZ' OFFICE FOR A

HIS SIGNATURE.

THE LETTER, AS SÜSJECT RENEMBERED IT, STATED -

TO - THE REFORMA URBANA -

MR. SO-AND-SO WENT ON A GOC DELEGITION TO CANADA AND EXILED HIMSELF.

HE IS A TRAITOR TONHIS COUNTRY. MRS. /SUBJECT/ HAS REQUESTED THIS

LETTER FOR YOUR RECORDS.

SIGNED /SEGUNDO PEREZI

AS A SIDELINE TO SUBJECT'S VISIT TO THE MINREX:

SHE STATED THAT AFTER ASOUT SEVEN OR EIGHT VISITS

BECAME FRIENOLY IN HER CONVERSATION WITH ELSIE AND CONTINUED TO PUSH

EVENTUALLY ASKED HER IF SHE WAS

SHE WANTED TO;

ELSIE TOLD HER THAT IF

SUBJECT STATED

ING A STEADY JOB.

ELSIE THEN TOLE HER,

COME AND SEE ME AND TEL HELP YOU.T: 'E YOU EVER

ELSIE NEVER

MENTIONED THE TYPE OF WORK SUBJECT WOULD DO AND THE MATTER WAS

NEVER BROUGHT UP AGAIN BY EITHER PARTY.

LETTERS CONTINUES TO ARRIVE FROM HER HUSBAND

EVERY TEN •TO TWENTY DAYS.

SEVEN LETTERS ARRIVED /STILL

TO HER GAUGHTER FRANCISCA.

SIGN THEM

ARMANDO RODRIGUEZ WHO LIVED IN MIAMI AND IS MARRIED TO

SUBJECT'S COUSIN ALBANIA AMASSIP Y TIMONEDA.

AFTER THIS ARRANGE -

MAMPERES COMPLE SEVERAL LETTERS,

THEIR LETTERS CID NOT APPEAR TO BE OPENED OR

FROM HER AUNT AND BROTHER

IN MIAMI TO HER MOTHER IN CUBA WERE TAMPÉRED WITH.

- SUBJECT CONTINUED HER FRIENDLY RELATIONS WITH

MARIA MENDIVER

THE "'COMITE' PRESIDENT AND MENTIONED THAT SHE

PLANNED TO GIVÉ UP HER APARTMENT INE RETURN TO LIVE WITH HER PARENTS.

SUBJECT CASUALLY OFFERED MARIA ANYTHING SHE MIGHT NEED IN THE APART-

MENT AS SUBJECT KNEW THAT MARIA RIO CONFIDED TO HER NEIGHBORS THAT

•SHE DESIRED TO HAVE SUBJECT'S SELiNG MACHINE.

PRÉPARE POA AUGUEX 1 FROM CUBA BITE HER CHILEREN

ABCUT THIS TIME SUBJECT BEGAN TO

AVARE OF THE

MANY CIFFICULTIES SHE WOULD ENCOUTER IN OBTAINING HER EXIT PERMIT,

HER BROTHER'S GIRL

SHE SOUGHT COUNSEL IN DIFFERENT GUARTERS SEE A RELATIVE OF HER'S

FRIEND GISELA CONFINI SUGGESTED THAT SHE

NAMED ROBERTO /LNU/ WHO WAS A POLICEMAN IN CHARGE OF THE DEPARTMENT

THAT HANDLED APPLICATIONS TO LEAVE CUBA AT THE GUANABACOA HAVANA

POLICE STATION.

THEY MET CONFIDESTIALLY AT GISELA'S GRANDMOTHER'S

HOME IN GUANABACOA HAVANA / SUBJECT CANNOT REMEMBER THE ADDRESS/

WHERE SHE EXPLAINED /WITHOUT MENTICNING HIS NAME/ HER HUSBAND'S

HUSBAND'S NAME WHICH SHE GAVE HIM.

PROBLEM AND HER DESIRE TO LEAVE CES-ROBERTO SAID HER HUSBAND'S

ROBERTO THEN ASKED FOR HER

NAME WAS ON EVERY POLICE

DONANTES LIST' AND PREDICTED THAT. SHE

WOULD HAVE à DIFFICULT TIME LEAVIIG CUBA.

SHE COUNTERED BY SAYING

THAT WAS PRECISELY WHY SHE WEEDES HIS HELP.

ROBERTO ADVISED HER TO

DISCREDIT HER HUSBAND AT EVERY COCISION EXPLAINING THAT THE MOST

IMPORTANT PART IN OBTAINING HER EXIT PERMIT CEPENDED CI: THE REPORT

SUBMITTED BY THE LOCAL •'COMITES!

RCBERTO TOLO HER THAT IF HE

WAS STILL IN CHARGE WHEN SHE PRESEATED HER APILICATIO! TO LEAVE THE

DIFFERENT 'COMITES'A MADE ON HER AFTER THICH HE WOULD BE ABLE TO

ZOVISE HER TE THE REPORTS TEREASUSION ENOUGH TO TARRANT AN APIRESTAL

---

## Page 5

104-10183-10340

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SEGREE

CASERICH STARACE ANO NURANIA.

UFG4-21604 PAGE 5

HER APPLICATION.

HAS THINGS TURNED CUT, THIS SYSTEM OF APPÜYING

THE GOC THROUGH THE POLICE STATION TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY WAS

CHANGED A FEW MUNTHS LATER, AND SUBJECT HAD NO RELSON TO USE

ROBERTO 'S AID ALTHOUGH SHE HEEBED HIS ADVICE.

ANOTHER FACTOR WORKING AGAINST

SUBJECT AT. THIS

ANTONIO AMORALES GOME2

ANÔ HER HUSBAND MOVED INTO THE APARTMENT HOUSE! NOSEPTEM SPEARS

OF THEIR NEIGHBORS WERE THE ABOVE MENTIONED COUPLE:

HUSBANO ORDERED HER NOT TO ENTER INTO FRIENDLY RELATIONS WITH THE

COUPLE SINCE ANTONIO HAD BEEN A SUBORDINATE OF HIS IN THE POLICE

DEPARTMENT.

AS A RESULT THEIRS WAS A 'HELLO AND GOODBYE RE-

LATIONSHIP

UNTIL SHORTLY AFTER WORD OF HER HUSBAND'S. DEFECTION

THEN ONE DAY SUBJECT'S DOG

APPEAREO TO HAVE BEEN POISONED

HER.. ANGELA BEGAN TO VISIT SUBJECT'S APARTMENT AND ASKED QUESTIONS

WHO SUSPECTED ANGELA'S MOTIVES FOR

BE SO TAO PAPA KNEE HAS EP TO NOT WITH AREA AR

SUBJECT DID NOT VISIT AUGELA'S APART-

MENT AND HAD NO DIRECT CONTACT WITH ANTONIO EXCEPT FOR A CASUAL

GREETING IN THE HALL.

CIRCA MID AUGUST 1964 - DETERMINED TO SEEK A LEGAL WAY OUT

OF CUBA, SUBJECT COMMENCED -

A DETERMINED CAMPAIGN TO MIN OVER THE •'COMITES"..

AS ROBERTO HAD SUGGESTED.

HER FIRST CANDIDATE WAS MARIA MENDIVER.

SUBJECT BEGAN TO PLANT IN MARIA'S MIND THE IDEA THAT SUBJECT'S".

AUNT IN MIAMI /CARIDAD ROSARIO XTIMONEDA Y VALDES/ A Ü.S. RESIDENT

FOR TEN YEARS WAS ANXIOUS TO HAVE SUBJECT VISIT HER.

TATE BEING SO SOSE TO SER PARELIG RESURICTEO "HER FREEDOM' OF ACTION.

SHE ALSO POINTEU CUT SHE WANTED TO TAKE HER SON AWAY FROM THE

COMPULSORY MILITARY TRAINING.

MARIA APPEARES TO BE UNDERSTANDING

MANT TO GO

I EACH PERSON IS THE MASTER OF HIS DESTINY AND IF YOU

YOU SHOULD.'

TO MAKE IT APPEAR THAT THIS WAS NOT A

HASTILY PRÉPARED TRIP TO JOIN HER HUSBAND.

SUBJECT SHOWED PICTURES

OF HER AUNT IN MIAMI - A BIRTHDAY CARD DATED 1956 INVITING SUBJECT

FOR A VISIT - AND PASSPORTS ISSUED IN 1962.

THAT TIME SHE HAD

THOUGHT OF COMING TO THE U.S. BUT THE OCTOBER 1962 CRISIS CUT OFF

AIR FLIGHTS TO MIAMI.

SUBJECT TOLD MARIA THAT HER AUNT WAS SENDING

HER THE AIRFARE TO SPAIN AND SHE WAS OBTAINING THE VISAS.

HER HUSBAND WAS INDICATING THIS PLAN IN MIS LETTERS TO HER.

AGAR PLACED EVERYTHING TR' HER APARTMENT AT MARSANS DISPOSAEC

ALTHOUGH MARIA TRIED TO APPEAR INDIFFERENT TO THIS OFFER,

KNEW SHE HAD STRUCK THE RIGHT CHORD.

MARIA THEN CONFIDED TO SUB-

JECT THAT THE ''G-2'' HAD BEEN BACK

ABOUT THREE TIMES TO CHECK ON

HER MOVEMENTS AND WANTED TO KNOI! WHAT INCOME SUBJECT HAD AND IF SHE

HAD ANY CONTACT WITH STRANGE PERSONS.

MARIA SAID SHE TOLD THEM THAT

HER PARENTS SUPPORTED HER AND THAT SHE HAD NOT SEEN SUBJECT CON-

TACTING ANY STRANGE OR UNKNOWN! PERSONS.

SUBJECT STATED THAT DURING THE FIRST FIVE MONTHS

AFTER HER HUSBAND CEFECTED SHE NOTICED STRANGE MEN WHO APPEARED TO

BE LATCHING HER MOVEMENTS WHEN SHE WENT HOME IT NIGHT FROM HER

SHE BELIEVE THAT ON ABCUT SIX OCCASIONS THREE

DIFFERENT MEN LURKED IN THE UNLIT STREET OF HER APARTMENT CHECKING

SHE STATED THAT IN ORDER NOT TO ATTRACT THEIR

ATTENT OCT SHE LEVER LOOKEO AT THAM AND THE LACK STREETS PREVENTED

ATTENTION,

HER FROM DISTINGUISHING THEIR FEATURES BUT SHE FELT CERTAIN THEY

WERE FOLLOWING HER.

THESE MEN NEVER MADE ATY ATTEMPT TO CONTACT

SUBJECT STATED SHE LAST SAW ONE OF THESE NIGHT OBSERVERS

ABOUT JANUARY 1965.

CLASSITICATION

PAGE NO

FCRM

 6s

1 10

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CONTINUED

...

---

## Page 6

104-10183-10340

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

LLASSIRCATIN

SOMELA ADO NUBINLA

SECRET

UF 84- i 1604

PAGE 6

AT HER PARENTS' HOME SUSJECT IOTICED ANOTHER

TYPE OF SURVEILLANCE I MICH VAS CONDUCTED DURING THE DAY.

TO TIME & SMILL BALEK CAR WOULD PULL UP IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE AND

A TALL STRONG LUOKING NEGRO •OULE GET OUT ANO STAND L'ATCH FOR AN

HOUR OR TWO AFTER WHICH THE SMALL BLACK CAR TOULO PICK HIM UP.

PROCEDURE HAS REPEATED ABOUT FCUR

OR FIVE TIMES AND LAST OCCURRED

ABOUT SEPTEMBER OR OCTOBER 1964.

SHE PRESUMED THIS MAN WAS WATCHING

HER SINCE HE WAS UNKNOWN IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND STATIUNED HIMSELF

IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE WITHOUT ANY APPARENT REASON:

SUBJECT SAID

SHE NEVER SAM THIS MAN CLOSE UP.

HER DESCRIPTION OF

THE: MAN IS GENERAL • A BLACK NEGRO.

CA ABOUT SIX FEET AND 250 LBS..

SHORT KINKY HAIR,

DRESSED IN A DARK: BLUE SUIT

SMELL BLACK CAR PHICH LEFT HIM AND LATER PICKÉD HIM UP. SUBJECT

COULD NOT DESCRIBE THE OCCUPANTS OF THE CAR.

IN ADDITION TO TELLING MARIA MENDIVER OF THE

LICOMITE'S THAT

SHE PLANNED TO JOIN HER AUNT IN THE UAS.

GIVING THEM THE SAME

TO SWEETEN ANGELA BY GIVING HER A BLOUSE AND SOME COSMETICS.

ONE APPEARED GLAD SHE WAS GOING TO HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO START

A NEW LIFE.

CIRCA Z2 OCTOBER 1964 - SUBJECT WENT TO THE SPANISH CONSULA TE.

IN HAVARA TARING ALONG TOO LESTERS DE RECOMMENDATION FROM SPANISH

CITIZENS IN CUBA WHO STILL ONNED THEIR. BUSINESS. A RELATIVE OF ONE

OF HER GIRL FRIENDS WAS A SPANIARD NAMED JOSE /LNU/ AND HE OBTAINED

THE LETTERS FOR SUBJECT.

WHEN SUBJECT PRESENTED THE LETTERS AT

THE CONSULATE SHE WAS GIVEN A QUESTIONNAIRE /GENERAL BIOGRAPHIC

DATA/ TO COMPLETE AND WAS TOLD TO RETURN THE NEXT DAY WITH THE COM-

PLETEO QUESTIONIAIRE AND FOUR PHOTOGRAPHS OF EACH APPLICANT.

NEXT DAY SHE WAS INSTRUCTEO TO RETURN IN FIFTEEN DAYS TO PICK UP

'HERS AND THE TWO CHILDREN'S/ VISAS. SHE RECEIVED THEM ABOUT

MID NOVEMBER 1964.

CIRCA MID NOVEMBER 1964 - SUBJECT RECEIVED MONEY ORDERS IN

AMOUNT OF $1252.00 FOR THEIR PASSAGE TO SPAIN AND TOOK THEM TO THE

BANCO NACIONAL DE CUBA WHERE THEY TOLD HER IT WOULD TAKE ABOUT

FORTY-FIVE DAYS TO PROCESS HER CASE.

AT THE END OF THIS PERIOD SHE

HAS GIVEN A DOCUMENT WHICH IN EFFECT STATED SHE HAD $ 1252.00 IN

FOREIGI EXCHANGE DEPOSITED WITH THE BANK FOR THE PURCHASE OF AIR-

LINE TICKETS.

CIRCA OCTOBER-NCVEMBER 1964 - A.

SUSJECT COMPLAINED FREQUENTLY

ALL HER NEIGHBORS ABOUT THE PROBLEMS IN OBTAINING THE EXIT

PERMITS AND HOW WORRIED SHE WAS BECAUSE HER HUSBAND'S NAME APPEARED

ON THE APARTMENT RENTAL COLTRACT.

ANGELA MADE A REVEALING COMMENT,

THERE ARE INVESTIGATIONS AND MORE WILL FOLLOW BE-

CAUSE yOU BECAUSÉ HE WAS BAD. ""

THIS WAS HIS HOUSE, BUT DON'T WORRY. THEY CAN'T

HAT YOU SAY, BUT LET'SIGATO DO SEE ROT THEY THIEKS!!

SUBJECT SAID, ''THAT'S

IT WAS HERE THAT ANGELA ADMITTED THAT SHE WAS

DOING INVESTIGATIVE ORK FOR HER HUSBAND : HO WAS "ORKING FOR THE

EXPLAINING SHE HAS INVESTIGITEO A MAY THE PREVICUS

RAY: SO CANTED TO CHANGE HIS JOS.

SHE DID GOT ICENTIFY THE MAN

BUT SAID THE TNVESTIGATION SHOES NE HAD SPOKEN AGAINST THE REGIME.

AS A RESULT. ANGELÀ SAID ME HAD RECOMMENDED AGAINST THE TRANSEEO I

JNGELA CONTINUED,

PREVERYONE KNO''S YOU ARE NOT WITH THE

GOVERNMENT BUT THAT YOU

YOU HAVE NEVER DONE

ANYTHING WRONG.

YOL CAN TRUST ME

BECAUSE I AM AMONG THEM,

1 CA:! ASSURE YOU THAT YOU

CEL NOT HAVE STY TROUBLE

PLEASE DO MOT DISCUSS THIS WITH

L'T TELLING YOU THIS BÉ-

CAUSE YOU ARE

A GOOD GIRL AND I FEEL SORRY FOR YOU.

HUSBAO IS 18:

THE ETI AND A MEMBER OF THE PERTY, THAT 1'1 TELLING

FORM

8-64 530

201

USE PREVIOUS EDITON

CONTINUED

---

## Page 7

104-10183-10340

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

I SISROL AND MUNGER

URGA - 21664 PAGE 7

YOU COULD GET HIM INTO TROUBLE.'

SUBJECT ASSURED ANGELA SHE HOULD

KEEP THIS

IN THE STRICTEST CONFIDENCE.

ANGELA ROUND. UP BY SHOWING

SUBJECT FOUR DIFFERENT CARNETS SHE HAD IN HER POSSESSION

BLOOD DONOR,

FEDERACION DE MUJERES CUBANA /FIC/.

3I MILITIA

/LOCALE ViKIGiT/ AND 48

CERTIFICATE FOR VOLUNTEER WORK.

CIRCA EID OF DECEMBER

1964 - WHEN THE BANCO NACIONAL AUTHORIZED

FOREIGN EXCHANGE CREDITS

TO PRESENT HER DECUMEHTATION FOR EXET THROUGH SPAS SUBER HUSBANDED

HOWEVER VROTE STATING THAT HE EXPECTED TO OBTAIN MEXICAN VISAS

SHORTLY AND ASKED HER TO CONSIDER THIS POSSIBILITY.

SUBJECT THEN

DECIDED TO WAIT FOR THE MEXICAN VISAS.

10 FEBRUARY 1965 - AFTER SEVERAL VISITS TO THE

MEXICAN CONSULATE

ON CALLE 14- BETWEEN 5TH AND 6TH AVENUE

SAW HER NAME /AND THOSE OF THE CHILDREN/ ON A LIST POSTED OUTSIDE

NE TO CONSULAS NUMBER SHE ENTEREO SAE CONSULATE WHERE SHE WAS

NOTE OF HER VISA NUMBER SHE ENTERED THE CONSULATE WHERE SHE

GIVEN QUESTIONNAIRES FOR THE FAMILY TO COMPLETE /BIOGRAPHICAL

QUESTIONS/ AND WAS TOLD TO PRESENT THREE: FRONT, PASSPORT TYPE

PHOTOGRAPHS OF HERSELF AND TWELVE PHOTOGRAPHS OF EACH CHILO /SIX

SUBJECT ALSO WAS INSTRUCTED TO TAKE A

SELECTED BY THE CONSULATE.

TO DAY CAREMON TEAR VISAS NEE DELIVERCO INCA TO-12'

FEBRUARY 1965.

15 FEBRUARY 1965 •

SUBJECT SENT A TELEGRAM /AT THE COJIMAR

JAVANA POST OFFICE/ TO - "'JEFE DE IMMIGRACION'S /CHIEF OF IMMIGRA-

TIOST IN RESUEST RESENTATRON OF DOCUMENTS VIA MEXICO. NUMBER OF

/TEST/ ' REQUEST PRESENTATION OF DOCUMENTS VIA MEXICO.

/SIGNED/ NAME_ AND ADDRESS OF SUBJECT.

SUBJECT

SENT AN IDENTICAL TELEGRAM IN THE NAMES OF HER CHILDREN WHO HAVE

ALWAYS LIVED WITH THEIR GRANDPARENTS.

20 FEBRUARY 1965 -

ABOUT 1300 HOURS THAT AFTERNCON TWO

MEN IN REBEL ARMY UNIFORM WITH NO INSIGNIA CAME TO HER APARTMENT.

HOOD VEGELANCE COMMITTEE THEY ONE NOT IDENTIFY THEMSELVES AND

HEAD OF THE DISTRICT NEIGHBOR-

HOOD VIGILANTE COMMITTEE.

INQUIRED AS TO WHETHER SUBJECT HAD AN EXIT PERMIT AS WELL AS OTHER

PERTINENT DOCUMENTATION.

SUBJECT SHOWED THEM THE PASSPORTS

IND THE BANCO NACIONAL CREDIT CERTIFICATE FOR THE AIRLINE TÍCKETS.

SHE ALSO SHOWED THEM THE APARTMENT RENTAL CONTRACT IN HER HUSBAND'S

RECEIPTS FOR THE RENTAL OF THE APARTMENT AND THE ELECTRIC BILL,

MAO ONE-PESO TAX STAMPS FOR HER APPLICATION FOR AN EXIT PERMIT AND

AN AFFIDAVIT FROM HER HUSBAND GRANTING HER PERMISSION TO TAKE THE

CHILDREN OUT OF CUBA.

THE TWO DSE AGENTS ALSO INQUIRED AS TO

WHETHER OR NOT SHE PLANNED TO JOIN HER HUSBAND AND WHERE HE WAS

THE AGENTS KEPT INSISTING THAT SUBJECT KNEW WHERE HE WAS

AND THAT SHE WAS PLANNING TO JOIN HIM.

SUBJECT STATED THAT SHE

STUCK TO HER STORY ABOUT GOING TO LIVE WITH HER AUNT IN MIAMI AND

THAT SHE WAS FINISHED WITH HER HUSBAND WHO HAD ABANDONED HER.

AGENTS ALSO QUESTIONED HER ON HER RELATIVES IN CUBA AS WELL AS THE

ADDRESS OF HER MUNT IN MIAMI.

SUBJECT

MAINTAINS SHE BASED HER ''DEFENSE'" ON. THE GROUNDS THAT

THROUGHOUT THE INTERVIEW SHE DID NOT

KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT HER HUSBAND'S MISSION IN CUBA OR ABROAD - THAT

HE HAD ABANDCHED HER AND RUINED HER LIFE AND THAT AS A CONSEQUENCE

SHE WANTED TO GO WITH HER CHILDREN TO HER AUNT IN MIAMI TO BEGIN

A NEW! LIFE.

THE DSE AGENTS THEN BEGAN THE ROUTINE OF MAKING

INQUIRING IF SHE HAD

A CANK ARCA CUMEZ OLD THE ACTUAL COUNTING OF THE PERSONAL

AN INVENTORY OF SUBJECTS PERSTHER PROPERIN SUCH AS A CAL PROVERRY.

WHILE THE OSE AGENTS LISTED IT ON A FORM.

AFTER THE INVENTORY WAS

ONE OF THE DSE AGERTS AND SUBJECT SIGNED THE I.VENTORY

FINISHESHE NOTICED THAT THE DSE AGENT WHO SIGNED RECORDED HIS NAME

AS TiRAMOS."

HE ALSO STAMPED A SMALL ' QUARTER"I SIZE INK SEAL IN

THE BACK PAGES OF THEIR PASSPORT WHICH CONTAINED THE INSCRIPTION

CLASSITICATION

PAGE NO

FORM

•c 53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CONTINUEO

---

## Page 8

104-10183-10340

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSFICATION

CAVIATLN STULA AND RUMILA

-EGRET

UFGA - 21604 PAGE 8

'DIRRECTION GRAL DE INMIGRACION, MINISTERIO DEL INTERIOR."'

/ SIGNED/

RAMOS 20-2-65.

SUBJECT

STATED THAT THIS WAS THE

AUTHCRIZATION TO OBTAIN THEIR INNCCULATION CERTIFICATES FOR THEIR

DEPARTURE.

WHEN THE DSE AGENTS WERE THROUGH AT SUBJECT'S

THEY WENT

TO HER PARENTS' HOUSE TO CHECK THE INVENTORY

CHILDREN'S BELONGINGS.

"MARIA GOMEZ SAW SOME CHILDREN'S ELOTHING

AND TWO PAIRS OF CHILDREN'S SHOES WHICH SHE ASKED SUBJECT CON-

FIDENTALLY TO SET ASIDE FOR HER.

PRIOR TO MAKING A FORMAL APPLICA- I

SUBJECT HAD

TION TO LEAVE CUBA,, 'INFLUENTIAL'' MEMBERS OF THÉ NEIGHBORHOOD

DISTRIBUTED HER MOST VALUABLE BE-

LONGINGS AMONG THE

•'COMITES'' AS FOLLOWS.-

1/ MARIA GOMEZ - THE CHILDREN'S ITEMS MENTIONED ABOVE.

MARIA MENDIVER - A SEWING MACHINE, A GOLD WRIST WÄTCH,

A PAIR OF $25 SUN GLASSES. A SET OF SHOES AND HANDBAG,

TWO DRESSES AND OTHER ODOS AND ENDS.

THE HEAD OF THE ''COMITE'' NEXT TO HER

PARENTS' HOUSE - 20 iN PESOS ''TO BUY A HANDBAG,'' ELEVEN BLOUSES,

TWO-PAIRS OF WOMEN'S PANTS, THREE GIRLS' DRESSES, FOUR PÄIR OF

GIRLS' HOSE ANGELA DEI SEA

•WATCH AND OTHER ODDS AND ENDS.

ANGELA DE ARMAS - EIGHT BLOUSES, ONE EXPENSIVE KNIT

DRESS,

TWO WOMAN'S SUITS, UNDERGARMENTS, A HANDBAG AND THREE DRESSES.

ANTONIO, A NEW LEATHER WALLET

TO SU SECONG BROTHER FIRE SENS SEEPS SEE ESCHANGED SUBJECONS

SHIRT WHICH BELONGED

TO SUBJECT'S BROTHER,

GOOD RADIO FOR ANGELA'S AND ANTONIO'S BAO ONE.

SUBJECT BELIEVED THAT THIS 1' INVESTMENT'• IN

MERCHANDISE WAS WORTHWHILE AND DID MUCH TO FORM THE OPINION OF

THESE PERSONS WHO HAD THE FATE OF HER TRIP IN THEIR HANDS.

THE TWO DSE AGENTS CONDUCTED A ROUTINE INVENTORY

CHECK AT THE HOME OF HER PARENTS. THEY LEFT SHORTLY THEREAFTER

WITHOUT ANY FURTHER INCIDENT.

IMMIGRATION WHICH READ -

RATRON WHICH READ 5: S DEPARTURE VIA MEXICO FOR 14 APRIL 1965.

PRESENT YOURSELF 72 HOURS BEFORE DEPARTURE AT OFFICE OF CUBANA DE

AVIACION ON PRADO OR LOSE THE RIGHT TO DEPART.'' THE TELEGRAM WAS

SIGNED BY WHAT SHE BELIEVES WAS THE CHIEF OF IMMIGRATION WHOSE NAME

SHE COULD NOT RECALL.

/ SUBJECT SAYS THAT THE TELEGRAM WAS

DELIVERED BY HER MAILMAN WHILE SHE WAS VISITING HER NEIGHBOR EVA

RODRIGUEZ IN THE LATTER'S APARTMENT.

THE MAILMAN COMMENTED THAT IT

CONTAINED GOOD NEWS AND INCLUDED HER DEPARTURE DATE.

AND EVA'S FRIEND, GRACIELA /LNUI, NOT TO DISCUSS IT

AMONG THE

NEIGHBORS.

XVII. CIRCA 7 APRIL 1965 - SUBJECT WENT TO THE CASABLANCA HAVANA

''SECCIONAL'" OF THE ''COMITE'' / SUBJECT CANNOT RECALL THE ADDRESS/

TO TURN IN HER RATION CARDS.

XVIII. CIRCA 10 APRIL 1965 - SUBJECT FOLLOWED INSTRUCTIONS AND

PRESENTED HERSELF AT THE CUBANA DE AVIACION OFFICES ON CALLE PRADO

SUBJECT STATED THAT THE WOMAN WAS CURTEOUS AND MADE SCME

SMALL TALK ABCUT HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO GET VISAS, ETC. SUBJECT

TOLD HER THAT HER AUNT IN MIAMI HAD ARRANGED EVERYTHING.

LEAVING, THE CLERK GAVE SUBJECT A LIST OF THE PERSONAL BELONGINGS

WHICH SHE AND THE CHILDREN WERE PERMITTED TO TAKE. ABROAD AND ADVISED

SUBJECT NOT TO EXCEED THE LIMITS PRESCRIBED SINCE SHE COULO FORFEIT

HER TRIP FOR SUCH AN INFRACT FRE PAIRS OF CUBAN USED SHOES.

THE LIST OF THINGS THEY COULD TAKE

OUT INCLUDED - FIVE DRESSES

THO PAIRS

OF STOCKINGS, TWO HALF SLIPS,

ONE FAMORAL, GIE PAIR O. CLOVES, THE OVERCOAT, ONE TURE SEA TO HEASTE

CONTINUED

---

## Page 9

104-10183-10340

ATION

DISPAEN SYMBOL AN SERVICH

CONTINULTION OF

DISPATCH

SEGRET

UFG4-21604 PAGE 9

I FOR EACH FAMILY GROUP/..

THE LIST FOR THE MALE INCLUDED - THREE

SUITS I INCLUDING THE ONE WORN ON

THE TRIE OVERCOAT,

THREE SHIRTS AND TIES

TWO HANDKERCHIEFS,

THE PAIRS PECUEEN THE SANER ONEY CAS NOT COACHED TO BE TAKEN

TWO PAIRS OF CUBAN USED SHOES.

CUT OF THE COUNTRY.

CIRCA 12 APRIL 1965

- SUBJECT LEARNED CONFIDENTIALLY FROM

MARIA MENDIVER,

1'G-2' I WAS CONDUCTING ANOTHER INVESTIGATION

OF HER ACTIVITIES.

MARIA SAID THAT AN INFORMER IN A NEARBY

''COMITE"' HAD DENOUNCED SUBJECT AS MEETING WITH COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES

IN HER HOME AND OF RECEIVING LETTERS FROM HER HUSBAND, : ALTHOUGH

SUBJECT DID NOT KNOW THE DETAILS AND THE PERSONALITIES INVOLVED

IN THE DENUNCIATION,

SHE BELIEVED THAT IT STEMMED FROM GRACIELA

/LNU, AND EVA RODRIGUEZ WHC DISCUSSED HER CASE INNOCENTLY WITH OTHER

MARIA ASSURED SUBJECT THAT SHE HAD ONCE: AGAIN BACKED HER

UP AND HAD RENDERED A FAVORABLE REPORT.

IN SPITE OF THESE ASSURING

SUBJECT WAS NOT CERTAIN OF THE OUTCOME UNTIL SHE LANDED IN

MEXICO ON 14 APRIL 1965.

XX.

14 APRIL 1965 -

SUBJECT STATED THAT SHE HAD TAKEN THE

PRESCRIBED BAGGAGE TO THE AIRPCRT ON THE PREVIOUS DAY SO THAT GOC

AUTHORITIES CCULD CHECK IT BEFORE DEPARTURE.

B. • THEY ARRIVED AT THE AIRPORT ABCUT 0430 HOURS

ALTHCUGH THE SCHEDULED DEPARTURE: TIME WAS 0530 HOURS

ONCE THERE

THEY WERE INFCRMED THAT THE PLANE WOULD BE DELAYED IN DEPARTING AND

THEY WERE NOT ALLOWED TO LEAVE THE AIRPORT: DURING THE WAITING

PERIOD /THE PLANE DID NOT TAKE OFF UNTIL ABOUT 1730 HOURS/ SUBJECT

DID NOT SEE HER DSE INTERROGATORS AND WAS NOT QUESTIONED BY ANYONE

REGARDING HER HUSBAND. ..

4.

JMWAVE TRACES ON INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED IN SUBJECT'S

DEBRIEFING REVEAL THE FOLLOWING -

A .

25699, 7 APRIL 19591.

ONE ANTONIO MORALES GOMEZ / PRIVATE/ WAS INCLUDED IN

NO. 164 OF THE CUBAN REBEL ARMY , HKHA-7290,

DECEMBER 1960 ON A LIST OF CUBAN G-2 AND DIER PERSONNEL 1960/.

28 DECEMBER

MORALES ALSO WAS REPORTED IN MARCH 1961 AS A MEMBER OF THE FOURTH

MILITARY DISTRICT IN MATANZAS PROVINCE, G-2, CSCI 3/764,490 OF 20

MARCH 1961/.

3425EX VA CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER AND CHIEF OF PERSONNED 2

SEGUNDO PEREZ IS IDENTICAL WITH THE SUBJECT OF 201=..

WHO HAS SERVED ON OCCASION AS A BODYGUARD FOR CUBAN OFFICERS

TRAVELLING ABRAD.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

ron 53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CLASSIFICATION

PAGENO

CONTINUEO

---

