# 104-10185-10127

## Page 1

104-10185-10127

CENTRAL INTELLIGINCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSE:

COUNTRY CUba

SUJECT Felix SUAREZ

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

RETURN TO CIA

NO. PAGES

Background Use Only REFERENCES

. Do Not Reproduce

CSCI-316/00645-64

11 August 1964

2

CS-311/00115-64

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

Washington. D.C.

DATE ACQ.

August 1954

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFOIMITION. SOUSCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPLAISAL OF CONTENT IS TESTATIVE

SOURCE:

• former Cuban IS oificer who served with the Cuba:

ntellicence Se-vice uncil April 1964

Headavariers Coments:

he folloulas report is one of a selles containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

infornation from the recoids of his Agency.

t is requested thar che addressees rake no action on any o

the individuals mentiored

in the personality reports richou

first checking vich tris Agency.

1.

Felix SUAREZ, pseidonym "federico SANTIESTEBY," heads

che Depiritrento Liberacion Nacional

(National. Liberarion

Departen; - L.) of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia

General Directorate of

Inteiligence - DaI).

2.

SJAPEZ sas born ir approximately 19:0, is about 135 pounds,

seven inches in heigit, has a thin build,

Feadquarters Conneats

1. A representative of this Agency queried source concerning

SUAREZ' possible involvement in the revolutionary trials

3

3/p/

STATE

DIA

MAMY

REP

CISCLAYT

(Noto: Field distriburion indiccied by "=")

I Navy

CIYCSO #

SECRET

NO FORDIGN DISSEY

iNSA

WALSAL O3

NE/5/R

C1111

i2:

I3TE

K3/SA/CI

1/0,

RID/AN

116. 188 19851/548<12, 82112) rI

RID 1

TXAXX

den safear -91

3BI 2

LIAISONE

• LX-1629

NO PROJECT

• (A':UC-1)

0SC1-315 00615790V

Cinor:

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

•2 .

in La Cabana during the period April 1960 to August 1961 and 11

SUARiZ° matronymic could be Alvarcz (this Agcncy's records

revoaled that one Felix SUAREZ Alvarez was involved in the

to be Alvarez.

Source said that the SUAREZ he knowns rent to

the Cuban diplomatic training school and from there to the DGI.

2. The records of this Agency reveal no pertinent identificable

information concerning SUAREZ•

SECR

NO FOREIGN DISSIN

pate

---

