# 104-10229-10057

## Page 1

104-10229-10057

SECRET

22 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/A/Security

VIA

SUBJECT

: Chief, WH/i/ Support

: Passporte of Cubano

1. Mr, Devine, of tho State Department, called on 22 June

and referred to previous diacusalone with membera of WH Divlelon

and of KH/A concerning Miro Cardona's pequest for some 100 pase-

ports of Cubano an well as other personal documento. It was

recalled tbar Miro Cardona and Tony Varona, among othera in the

Council, bad raised this question in late April and early May with

Mr. Goodwin and later with Morales Carrion.

Al that time le was

undererood that theao paosports and documenta were collected from

volunteers for the Invasion forceo in Florida an held poselbly by

the FRD or ite "associates"' under an agreement that eaid passporte

and documents would be turned over to no one other than the person

concerned or his helro. It was aleo socalled by Mr. Devine that the

answer so the roquest of the Council lor then documanto was that

asy Individual who wanted hia documenta ahould go to the antity to

which he gave it and make application.. It was aloo passed to the

Council that the passporta were in the Florida area in custody and

were Immediately avallable to the Individual or hia beira.

For a

elme this soomed to suílice or, at any rato, the inquiries soomad to

atop.

¿. Apparently with Miro Cardona's knowledge a fow dayo ago

a circular was prepared by some Cuban organization and sent to

all people in the Cuban community In Miami who might be Interested

In documenta or passporte, stating that anyone wanting to rocover

sald documenta abould apply to Mr. Hurowitz on the Cuban deak in

the Dopartment of State. iia. Hurowite received in the laot day on

two some thirty lottero requestlng docuinents of one Indlvidual or

another and evontually decided to acknowledge tbem with a form

letter, stating that no responsibility for sald documents rested wich

the Stale Department,

However, the State Department would do

what de could to assist in the localing of said documenta. Meanwhile

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ap."

SECRET

someone in Stare has contaciod Carlos Plad on the Revolutlonary

Council, and has been assured that the circular which had been

going around to Cubans will be stopped and Plad will apparently act

as the Council's polnt of coordinallon for the recovary of aald

documente.

3.: Mr. Devine would like to have ua provide him with some

more apecial Inatructions than he presently has concernlag the pro-

cedures for the racovery of the documents; also, If we can short

circult thia procoss of referral of cases to tho Stato Department la

Washingion do any way, he would appreciato de.

Comments and suggeatlone from WH/4/ Socurity are

requested.

DUTT

1ge (42 June 1961)

Diatribution:

Orig. & l - Addresaee

1 - C/WH/4/Support

* = C/PA-Prop

SEOMET

---

