# 104-10175-10184

## Page 1

104-10175-10184

4E25332

SECDET

Ph. file: 201

LIHUFE-I

MINORANDON YOR IN: ENCORD

su, tengurter Brelley for Inparentatives o

the Maztoo City Murican Chamber of Comerce

Is me sbore metlaz took pince on 2 day In the conference 5o0

í the Beadquarters bullding, The followins mbers of the Chamber

ettended Los seetag:

1) Mio demon C. O11Ter, member of the Bourt of Tristers

advanity as the merlem and on publlcity comitte

the metcan Chuber of Comerce In Merleo.

2) M5. Wllard I. Leanor, mibes af tho Deltoe Benking

Cosporation, Mertoo CIty.

3) MI. Tomer Ho Sonloy, director seneral of Compenta

Merloo de Arracion.

Mr. Joha lampkin, partner, Arthr Anderson Compery,

5) NI- dadd Auntin, layer, Merses Cityo

6) Ir. Nellell Stoner, president, stringer & Associatel,

Murico City®

T) Mr. No Bo Wichtrial, emeutire with Hoyal Crun Cal.

3o The seeting comened ut 1:45 pal, and terminated three hour

Rater.

Introductory renars to the prory sere made by IDal A lio

aloo introduend the speaker, Ill B. The other participant was IOR C

of llo Toil B erre a fosemi and luoid exposition on Cuban cousist

actirities in latia Asarica end on the soviet prusence 1n taxies.

owns the latter hals of the meting the diression vas turned o

evelonants in kertoo and the Unltal States Chanbur Of Commerce pa

tolnto vers anted to expreas their vers en the follins:

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

(a) PRI - Tre prevailing opinion was tiet the fui is a

stellizia, influence vit)in tie comur tu that ivo solidarity c

effectiveness is increasing.

the courta would suffer serica cisorders.

malerzoir; a transitional period and is portesca; its Iscooni: i =05

gaugity "trass routs opinion.

this srict since the puulic et iarge tas iscuir in the dast duscie

nose sochisticated and nore act calate.

Ste can, c11-i=portont

objective of tbe FRI is to minazin the "-aà scial".

(b) Presidential Dlacticas (1970) - Ta pievallity opinich as

that it is too early to say vith a degrez of sortaaty dio vili cucceed

to ties iésidency.

15 1t is itu traditinali:, so isaso in siste

Insteross, the minister of Goleracion dos Lear. ta "caio" (ELs

desigrated one). Zorever, at ticis Junctura ivia 2iiü Tant Tha rise

Lie'j candidate jould be the rajcr of larico Cit:, Corcha dal Ia=22.

The renera? feeling was that the succesuca to Frusdisnt Dia: Oniez

woule be a livera,

i tiniet the marina.

I'nere

wes Sonerci agrecuent that the "Irner Council" musià Iot raise a

decisica concernino the presidastial caraiiate unuii 1909 at the

earliest.

(c) "The Inner Council" - the group was unaritoi in the can-

viction that netional policy is comulates by ua presilent with a

mil porerful comittee, consosed principally di rcaoificial Levers.

1s. Oliver was convinced trat tie soveral larin circles vi lexico

have membershio in this couscii.

He poinuei cuo time tris is a isjical

certainty "since the banks cortsoled abort lu, vi uli inductay in tie

courtri."

Otters vere unanious that certain lecairo industrialists

and comercial interest also vera part of tas =er dancil. 152

pari cigants vere unable to specily any sir;lo Desser as being a Laz-

ber or tine council and vore urable to describe tils Iner Counci with

eny degree of certainty althoug: sevezz veil-ican business lorier vere

ventionea as possibilities, such as Ermo Faglisa, barios inoujet end

Kanuel Igiesias Bspinosa.

(c)

The RAPAMS Furor - "r. Oliver volliceani the obserration

I-ixican 222s5 did

not raje any upsetting results in lexico ai 1u= as te could tell.

caid that ¡oFACT handled the situation "eurosal, vall" and cosarved

"So sihat?"

Lost incluencial - Several of the ncabers sars o the opinion tiat the

is the nerspaper

neaspaper 1s leftist in tone and generally outspolio on importeat

dozestic and interutional ratters.

SECRET

+71880715080 ton.

si o

---

## Page 3

SECRET

•STAStITANCEs O CDO QUILOVAGE MINAiON In NexieD.... Liana anong tea...

Kup had direct denlings in the moet part tith dialoWns atlear

and salt that they vere inarfectual and unresponsire. The group

vosend the option that they muld velous clone cooperation vita.

NOPACE ainsion 11 Nix100 and even expressed the hope that oocentonal

rom table mostines, such us the one today, could be sobeduled 1

Manoo Osty. It was generally seroad that the was probably not

tomatble®

tim estoste of the MOrACT OrTIonIs.

3. IDal A closed the mosting with the suart that 1t be com

sidered confidential and not be alo the mabduet of convermatio

with othere outade the excus

SECRET

---

## Page 4

1: 11º

1.3

119:

110

2es

---

