# 104-10413-10334

## Page 1

110410413-103341

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

TOG

19%

DEI

THE

OMF

CLASSICATIOn

SECRET

ME SHAGE HANDLIMO INDICATON

STAFF

0

DATE-TIME GROUN

erra

020046Z

DIRECTOR

CONF: C/353 INFO:

FILE DU

D/su,

0D03, CS/RF

/NES, DD0/D0, C/PS/EGZ

PAda

Is

1 •

MOE WATERINCE NUMBeR

922297

DISSEM BY: 45

t0O thEN

MATURATO PER

800 FMES

TO: IMMEDIATE

WNINTEL RYBAT

J. AP WIRE STORY IN WASHINGTON STAR ON FOIA RELEASE OF OSWALD'S

MATERIAL MAKES FOLLOWING STATEMENT WHICH YOU SHOULD BE AWARE

eUTE: IN SWORN TESTIMONY BEFORE THE WARREN COMMISSION,

RICHARD HELMS, THEN A BRANCH CHIEF AND LATER CIA'S DIRECTOR.

. SAID THE AGENCY NEVER HAD OR EVEN CONTEMPLATED ANY CONTACTS

WITH OSWALD. •• NEWLY RELEASED DOCUMENT, SAYS WE SHOWED IN

TELLIGENCE INTEREST IN OSWALD AND DISCUSSES... THE LAYING ON

OF INTERVIEWS. END QUOTE. Y

MATERIAL

2. ABOVE MISCONSTRUED FROM SANITIZED EAR RELEASED UNDER FOIA,

WRITTEN BY FORMER OFFICER WHO WAS INTERESTED IN POSSIBLE USEFUL IN-

FORMATION OSWALD MIGHT HAVE IN CONTEXT OF SOVIET REALITIES. IN

RESPONSE TO DCI CALL TO ALL HANDS TO RECORD WHATEVER THEY THOUGHT

MIGHT BE RELEVANT TO WARREN COMMISSION INTERESTS, OFFICER WROTE THIS

MEND

MEMO

THE

DOES RECORD BRANCH LEVEL DISCUSSION BUT STATES THAT

WRITER DOES NOT KNOW WHAT ACTION WAS TAKEN- E-2, IMPDET-M

DATE: 1 ОСТ 7Ь

ORIO:"

CHAS-BRIGGS:DCM

UNIT:

C/ISS

EXT:

1596

D

w. to. lines

CLADNNCATION

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

THEODORE GIMSHACKLEY, ADDO

E 2

IMPDET®

CL BY: 061991

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Soturday, Ortober 2a197

*Document Contradicts Testmony

CIA Viewed Oswald

As Intormation Source

Oswa

chi che:

the

d ind

1)yOswald!m

sk factor

loyediton;

he

eted)a that

that Oswal

to the CIA,be

hat:

his, Russian-

na, might, have been

1 for Soviet women to

rs, leave the: country

seas where.they could

ABOUT the age

wald-said ither

ючЕ

osward occurred, some

summer, 1960) The author:

"don't recallif this was"

ed while Oswald and his fami-y

en route to our country or il it

their arrival'"

wastrele

ated sPress:

the Freedom of niorm

NA. second documen

former Clay Directoi

while serving ja

Warren Commission=

seled CIA officials on

was a ClA agen

wald was never an emp

-The Washingtan; St

2 10

CIA Link

To Oswald:

Unproven:-

Senate investigators were unable.

to confirm reports from two CIA oifi-»:

cers that the agency may have con;

tacted Lee Harvey Oswald prior to-

the assassination of President-John.

day ennedy i was learned yester

However,

Sen. Richard Schweiken,

R-Pat

* Who beac

d ithe

Kennedy

estigation

through a spokes

that

"I'don'

think we snow the whole story.

The CIA:-released as

document

Thursday. showing that the

agencys,

once considered using-Oswald

source offintelligence

information

the Soviet:

The

ment appeared to conflict

with sworn

before: the

Ten: Com"'

misSIon

by, Richard: Helm

then. a

branch

"Chiel

and" later

the

CIA's

director;

that the agency never had?

"or even contemplated" any contacts

with Oswald

pan va grindy

79 54203 F

/ SCHWEIKER SAID he was

una

ware of the Oswald document, but a

well informed source said it had been:

turned over to the Senate intelligence

subcommittee that investigated

"the

Kennedy assassination.

"We followed it up,'

•i the source

said, but "we found no indication tha:

Oswald was in fact contacted.

- The same, source

id in

vestigar

tors also were unable to cog

irm the

sworn; testimony, before the-su

mittee.by.a.-former.CIA,.offic

oco m-

er-wha

claimed to have seen: a CIA report

concerning a contact with a man.

closely.resembling.@swalds descrip.

Schweiker contir med that his suba

committee, had been unable" to cort

roborate several. reports 70% ClAy

contacts with Oswald in connection

with

his; travels: in

Russia:

1959 and 1962.24511124924"

between

---

