# 104-10216-10058

## Page 1

104-10216-10058

. more,

DISPATCH

CASSACATION

SECRET

PROCESSENG ACTION

ВАЛКЕВ ГОВ S20285

11.5

Chief of Statione

OMF®.

- Chief, Wl Division

FROM

Chief of Statione

SUUUECT

ShOLOMo GLIKSBERG

ACTION BICARED - MEFERENCES

NO WIDENEE HOURED

CHLY QUALIFIED DEM

LFis

REFERENCE: 8ZPA-17656, 260une 196956-6-4

The

Station has no traces on Subject

2. There are numerous traces on I. Irving DAVIDSON.

shows that he announced the ner location of his offices

at 1612 R. Street, Moh, Vashington, De on 1 April 1959. Among

those he representad at that tire were the Nicaraguan Covernment

and Israeli Military Industries

Another undated card shows

hin as a registered representative of the Nicaraguan Governent

at Suite 1224, Wyatt Building, Warhington, D. Co

Thore is one

reference to his buying rifles from the Dominican Pept-afe for

sale to Indonesia, with the approval of the Nicaraguan president

3. Station contact ERWIC] knows Davidson well and classtles

hần as

an unprineipled opportunist.

At one tire when Nicaragua

was arranging to purchase a quantity of Staghound amored cars

from Israel,

Davidson made use of a Nicaraguan passport to

travel fron

France to Israel since Arerican citizens sere at that

timo enjoined from travelling to the Mid-Fast.

shown

this

passport hy then • French Arbassador to Nicaragua,

Raymond PONS.

EPwIGI told the American 1l1tary Attache about

this unauthorized travel. The Mi, told the American Ambassador

who, In turn, told Davidson that FrAIll had squealed on him.

Pelations between ERNIG-l and Davidson were strained after

that. This took place about 1956.

continaed.•

Distribution:

0Gl - COS.

1- Chief, WiD

CROSS ENTREII TO

CS COPY

DESPATCH SYMBOL AND MUNRER

HNMA-4366

GABIFICANON

SECRET...

201-41581

56 - 6-4

10 July 1969

0E3 PEE NUNNER

201-

5€500

A pous on, on

---

## Page 2

# 4-00000-

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

LOASSIPICATINE

SECRET

PISTICA STMOOL AND LUABLE

FNMA-4366

4. FRiIG l Bags that Davidson rade about $50, 000 (US.)

on the staghound deal which he invested locally in

Plywood de

Nicaragua to avoid paying U.S. incore tax.

Ke later sold his

interest in this plywood fire.

Above is for information only and not to be passed

on without Headquarters express permission in len of the

restrictiope re FD 51-1,9.

6. The station has no recent information on somoza

Involvement in Israeld arms dealings nor have any Uz1

submachine guns been noted locally.

Luvreuce F Buter

LaNgence F. BAPKER

FORA

8-464

#101

53e

USE FRETIOUS EDITION

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

FACE NO.

2 of 2

---

