# 104-10217-10019

## Page 1

104-10217-10019

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

SSCRET

- CARATIN 82

RIS Activity:

855-53-265

7/5/53

Коко чо

DCT 28/3/48

WIRL 168,

Crennisto, pra-soriat ladiniduala and poT-cha suspected 0: Son asplosago,

In 2946 14 ES.

3. subjec: has bees laplicated 1a Sor Intolligonos astiritles, 18 1a

thought that 1a 1915 bo replacod COCKOY eS MCD logal sesident in vis.

olded a sea colome colet leetten celeted careetertee, and

=a 23 dul Eù incorant reccatized 509 at ang anon tale teen in 192 conter,

•iscos, setisen li and L5.

gertoily chose associate of atoli too.

wise files re ascued v..en

Greer left Hash Do air. 12712 said Siler: was bessenset superior fron

Cu 4 to .00 45

or.tasts

2. Carvia 6/52

1. Partlott WIIS of Aborioen Logation Saritod by HAPCHCL fOT BInOT

19/6/51 at which be was the only guest. Foth Subfeet and l'aPaluk were

careful tu arold asiing questions or to cile polets of controreroy. intions

tros countalas.

3 32 non-disloratic contacts rile in :S, arca' ther sciora. lectriniora and

ories, screei wro: in corrie in'erpired.

reserved wit dosesh ?. raids in

For 15, mon ain. Bail isenticieri as raving been an-ared in Sou IS work

üploratic contacts set forth, t.c.

•d 919

22/6/57

BED BELS 266

23/10/52

ST i 344

: 18/12/53

3a At dinsor party 19/6/51 with MARCHU!. and VEILS (see abore, 121

Contaote) Subjeot 11d sost of the talklid, recai!1ng flearent senarlos

Of US and Harars. Tha diaser too! plece in a privato dinira, roosjat

the tarp. Subject said be liked darican I1l0 and doricals woll, and

found 11fe 1n Helsickt lomly, Nells roilced that Sabject's air fo

ImpassIro, !n a May comendligi tende tovard ocersesces.

Fe baared

frequent sighs as though gulping for air or bornd, which cerveyed ar

Lapresalca of Bedness. Discussion vas abrut Iltarataro, and ¿boy, al

latos sent to delle apartrent to liotos to sualo. Toe jors bad a/strasg

proferenco for Areticas cigaration to Rusalan or MIsiah ODes. Their

offret sonad to be to keep the scotlag upon an entirely frlendly! and

sootal footing.

Lo Sabject's taotier have been described by WELlS as "beggar vita a elube.

altho iisted as lst secr, Sor Leg, falsink, has not been seen ün delsink

for : 9 contes.

Sor ler. cificers say he's still er. lave in t302 bit

do not achoutedge he has teen transferred, which appears *s be tire case.

Sjoj's deserture on "leave" schloved fairig scon after a -sarases or "The

Eeporter" stor! (Iten l above).

6. Dec 9 53 info: In 1919 Subj at Sov Dipl mission, Siderest,

siere acted as

interpreter for Sor Inister to lingary in his conversations wit

the U. S.

Hungary (L73 507L4.

SECRET

---

