# 104-10185-10118

## Page 1

104-10185-10118

REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba liais

SUBJECT

REPORT NO.

Policy Guidance Directives for

DATE DISTR

Cuban Ictelligence Representatives

in Panama as Issued by the MA

NO. PAGES

Department (Intelligence) of the

REFERENCES

CS-311/02108-64

18 August 1964

9

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

SOURCE:

(June 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APARAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A former Cuban officer who served with the Cutan Intelligence

Service until April 196%.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a

document which source provided this Agency and concerns the

General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de

Inteligercia - DGI) NA Department's polic; guidance directive

for Cuban

intelligence representatives in Parama.

Department no longer exists, as such, having been divided

into two departments:

Illegal Department (Ilegal) and the

National Liberation

Department (Liberacion Tacional - LN).

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION

COUNTRY: PANANA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5

4

3

IMPERATIVE

1. Collective Action

2. Anti-Guerrilla Schools

3. Position of the Political Parties Toward the Cuban

Revolution

4. Relations with the U.S.A.

5. Cubans in the Yankee Army

6. Revolutionary Organizations

7. Movement of Solidarity with Cuba

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I 01A

ARAY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO =

I NAVY

I&NS

I AIN

INSA

NART

1 OR

1 FBI

(Note: Field distribution indicated ty "y")

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

JLX-1604

I SP

(AJMUG -1)

CS-311/02108-64

For Distriction See

ttached Page

SI/LS

12 (fOr E/OS1, ACSI. ONI!

TOTALIE 3.

RID/AN 1,

SR 4./44130m

N7 23 (34), 1P 8 18), ER 8 (10), FE 12 {8). SEI1 (19)

PORM NO. •

ABING

RAO RHT

Sm

---

## Page 2

Hidgrs Dissem

#H/COPS

8H/PO/A

NH/PO/B

WH/1

171/2

WH/3

WH/3/V

WH/4

NH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/MOB

WH/SA/R

RH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff

CI Liaison,

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

BE/H

FE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/JKO/J0

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/5/P

NE/6/C&I

NE/Intel

NE/CI

WE/1

NE/2

WE/3

NE/4

To inte

13

5

5

4

30

1

1

Ca tal

1

1

1

1

1

ford

1

1

1.

1

S-E-C-R-F;-T

NO FOREIGE DISSEM

- la =

WE/5

WE/BC

WE/R

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

1

1

Field Dissem

WH/NEXI

WH/MNTY

WH/NRID

WH/SDOM

WH/PIBO

WH/POSN

WH/KNGS

WH/PRIN

WIL/GORG

WH/PACY

WH/MANA

WH/SJOS

WH/SALV

WH/TEGU

WH/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WH/BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

WH/LIMA

WH/CARA

WHI/BUEN

WH/COBA

WH/MONT

WH/ASUN

WH/SAGO

WH/RIOD

WH/CURI

WH/BRIL

WH/SAOP

WH/BHIA

WH/BEHO

WH/LGRE

WH/RECI

WH/SA/WAVE

AF/ALGI

AF/ORNA

AF/RABA

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

• AF/CNRY

AF/BAKO

AF/DARE

1

5

1

1

1

1

1

1

EE/VIEN

EE/SGUR

EE/CYRU

EE/ATHE

EE/KAVA

prod frand

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/02108-64

EE / SLON

EE/BERN

EE/GNVA

EE/ZURI

LE/HAMB

FE/DJAK

FE/MEDN

EE/SURA

73-3

FE/OKTE

FE/SEOU

FE/SAIG

FE/KOBE

NE/COLO

2-26

>=26

12-25

NE/MDRS

NE/KUWA

NE/KAHI

NE/DACC

NE/LAHO

NE/RAWL

NE/BAGH

NE/BEIR

NE/DAMA

NE/ALEP

NE/JIDD

NE/DAHA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

KE/BRUS

4-6

14-1

1

Joas

WE/OTTA

WE/ROME

WE/MILA

WE/HAGU

114-4

WE/LISB

WE/MADR

WE/BARC 14-3

1

WE/LOND

WE/PARI

Liaison Dissem

IE,

II

IEL

L/WASHI

1

..-

---

## Page 3

NO FUNEION DISSEN

- 2 -

+5-318-02108-68

8. Canal Zone

9. Situation of the leflist forces

10. Repressive codies within Panama

11. Panamanian Communist Party

INPORTANT

12. Internal Alitical life of the country

13. Situation within the Armed forces

14. The Church

15.

Functions, characteristles, and data on members of the

foreign service and Diplomatic Corps accredited to the

country.

NECESSARY

16. The Press

17.. Government structure and organizational functions

18. Collaborators concerning the national economy.

ISTELLIGENCE GUIDANCE AND OBJECTIVES

COUNTRY: PANAMA

INPERATIVE

1. COLLECTIVE ACTION

a) Military or political measures adopted in Latin

American anti-Cuban Regional Organizations in

which the Panamanian Government participates.

b)

Use of Panamanian territory for Latin American

or l'ankee military operations - participating

armies - units-and their effectives.

Date of

operations - methods and places of arrival -

exit from Panama • their destination.

c) The use of Panamanian soldier contingents in

operations

against Cuba. Units and commanding

officers of units that would participate.

d) Need in Panama: Heady nd penette, no pres

Agenda, agreements, and plans

worked out at these meetings.

Coordiration of

activities against Cuba worked out at these

meetings • Panamanian representativos at meetings.

e)

Topics discussed at CDCA meetings. CDCA discussions

on Cuba.

Agreements and plans formulated.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

CS-311/02108-64

1) Neasures taken concerning Cuban travel.

7) Possibilities of rupture with Cuba by Latin American

countries that still maintain them gic.

2. COUNTER- INSURGENCY SCHOOLS

a) Counter-Insurgency schools maintained by sankee

Imperialism

in Panama and the Canal Zone

especially the Canal Zone.

Latin Americans attending these courses; duration

of training cycle; name, rank, and nationality.

Counterrevolutionary elements attending anti-

guerrilla courses either as instructors

trainees; name and rank.

Army of current assignment

and the duration of their training cycle.

4.

Specialist schools (1.e.

Paratroopers, Frogmen) Ir

lankee bases. Location of these bases.

Elements training at Fort Davis ag CIA agents or

specialists in

the various Latin police forces.

Name,. rank, and

nationallty of trainoes and the

duration of their training cycle.

Manuals used at the Fort Davis training school,

techniques and identity of Instructors.

Panamanians taking these courses.

POSITION OF POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION.

a) Their attitude toward the Il lavana Doclaration.

b) Their attitude toward Cuban-Soviot relations

affecting Cuba and world peace.

Their reaction toward accusations that Cuba 1s g

Communist base for aggression toward Latin America.

RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.

a) Alliance for Progress. Peace Corps.

b) Relations with American loan organizations.

c)

American military assistance and the role of the

American military mission.

) Training of Panamanian military personnel 1

merican schools

e) Location of American bases.

f) Special forces schools in Panama.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 5

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

DO FUREIGN DISSEN

= 4=

CS-311. 02108-64

Naval Order of Battle • fleet Identification

types of vessels - numbor of vessels - unit

identification.

h)

American troop concentrations.

Novement observed

within bases.

Norement of ships, aircraft. etc.

Inform whether the build-up during the crisis has

or reduced.

5..

CUBANS IN YANKEE ARNT.

a)

Cuban counterrerolutionaries in Yankee Army kases

in Panama; especially Kolke Base, Fort Gulick, and

Rio liato. Punta Nala and Mamintoes.

Units to which

hese mercenaries are assioned - their nuaters.

Name and rank of their officers.

Length of time

they have been in the American Arm;. Date of their

arrival in Panana.

b)

c)

Information concerning the arrival of ner contingents

of Cuban mercenaries in Yankee bases in Panama

method of transport and their point of departure.

, Yankeo and

stensible reasons for their presence.

Maneuvers

n Panama in which Latin American units have participate

and their arrival there. Arm; involved, units, and

their strength.

d)

Movements

of Yankee personnel from the Canal Zone

that would denote special preparations or situations.

6. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS.

a) Counterrevolutionary organizations operating in Panama.

Identity of leaders.

Their government contacts and

assistance received.

Their contacts with other national

sectors - their contact mechanism.

b)

Communications betreen organizations (counterrevolutionary)

in Panama and their headquarters in Miami.

Their

• contacts in Cuba.

7.

MOVEMENT OF SOLIDARITY NITH CUBA

a) Verify whether the lovement of Solidarity with Cuba has

been formed.

How does it function. Identity of

leaders, etc.

8.

b)

The potential of active manifestations bi progressive

organizations in favor of solidarity'

CANAL, ZONE.

=)

The necessity of Canal Zone penetration vis press

reports of same.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 6

14-00000

9.

NO FORLION DISSEM

=5 =

(S311/02108-01

b)

Operatiors date.

Entry and Exit control regulations.

Requirements for movement within the zone.

Documentation

required.

Internal customs.

Regulations concerning

ships and crews while in the canal'pore.

c)

Civil and Military Internal administration with details

of its organization and structure. Date on principal

officials.

d)

Intolerable economic and polilical turmoll caused ly

the Canal Zone maritime activities

Entry

in Panama.

and exit of canal.

Disparity in wages between

North Americans and Latin Americans.

Effect of

canal zone commercial establishments on Panamanian

Attitude of Yankec officers and soldiers

•toward Panamanian nationals and their public officials.

Policy of racial discrimination in the Canal Lone.

Jamaican negro population and their relationg with

Jamaica.

1) "Hindu population in the Canal Zone and thoir relations

with British Guiana.

SITUATION OF LEFTIST FORCES.

Leftist political organizations - their liaison

arrangements.

b) Student movement:

structure, strength,

and orientation

of its organizations.

The need of collaborators to

provide information on these matters.

c)

Workers' and Peasant organizations: structure,

strength, degree of

unity,

leaders,

work that

they carsy on. Impertalist penetration. ORIT.

d) Propaganda media of leftist forces.

e) Repressive measures against leftist forces.

1) Attitudo of leftists toward insurrection.

k) Leftist attitude toward the Cuban Revolution.

h)

Effects of the Caribbean crisis on the leftist.

forces, and consequences.

Periodic and permanent contact with the left.

10.

REPRESSIVE FORCES.

* Rupeest sorces aparative ta ra raders and

otficers.

S-E-C-R-F-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEN

---

## Page 7

S-E-C-R-F-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 6 -

C5-311/02108-64

b)

Pians and objectives of internal repression.

Tactics utilized against the Literation Movement

and Solidarity with Cuba.

Their otjectives in

the struggle against these movements.

c)

Agreements In effect now tetween Panamanian and

Central and Latin American repressive bodies.

Meetings held to coordinate repressive measures

withln the Zone. Dates, place, and Idontity of

those attending meetings.

Agreements reached to

fight against the Liberation and Cuban Solidarity

Movements.

Practical measures taken to carry them

out.

d) Foreign advleers of the repressive forces (Yankees).

Name, rank, -ard role of advisers.

Specific cases

tn which these advisers have intervened.

"DENI"

activities.

Police regional schools established in Panama

or Canal

Instruction offered.

Training

cycle.

Manuals (obtain copies).

Panamanian nationals and other Latin Americans.

taking these courses. Name, rank, and nationality.

Central Intelligence Agency. Foreign heads in Panama.

Their name and duties.

CIA offices. CIA objectives

Their plans to accomplish these plans.

CIA's national net.

Their outstanding operatives:

targets. Penetration of CiA net.

Their principal

Interpol contacts. Coordination with Interpol.

Restrictive measures on Cuban travel. Agents.

11.

CONMUNIST PARTY OF PANAMA.

a) Its attitude toward the ll Havana Declaration.

b) Its attitude toward Cuban-Soviet Relations.

c) Its attitude toward the direction of Cuban

national and international policies.

d)

Its attitude or position regarding the

International Communist Novement Schism.

1)

China-USSR.

2) Albania-USSR.

3) Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania.

4) Peace Movement.

5)

Peaceful Co-existence.

S-E-C-R-E-1

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

i...

...°

1 00 00 1979

---

## Page 8

4-00000

12.

S-E-C-H-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES!

- 7-

C5-311/02108-64

e) The Party's Internal Situation

1) Strongth, lendare flata on lenders).

2)

Disputes.

The Part's relationg with other loftist elemente.

1) Disputes.

, 2) Possibilities of Unity. Their work with

organizations.

6) O1f1cial Agitation polley of the Party.

Ane seat for ass, esa anty of the comment

of guerrilla action.

1) Their work on Solidarity with Cuta.

1) Propaganda media.

k) Party finances - source of their finances.

i Enta muntat are de and permanent contact with

IMPORTANT

PALiASIA 'S INTERNAL POLITICS.

a)

Bourgeois Political parties, composition, strength,

biographic data on

poston concerning the Canal zone sions, and their

b)

Relations of bourgeois political parties with

North American monopolies, with the American

not one at o

Embassy, Canal authorities, and the church.

c)

Anti Communist campaigns.

Their posture - attacks

on Cuba.

Leaders.

Fraterral Secret Organizations. .

Relations with the Panamanian Government and the

"Yankee" Embassy.

d)

Bourgeris political parties' relations with Armed

Forces.

e) Bourgeois politicians who have supported popular

demonstrations against the Canal Zone.

Date on

these politicians.

{)

Thelma King. Biographic data, past activities,

and contacts.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-8-

CS-311/02108-64

13. ARVED FOECES INTERNAL SITUATION.

a)

Structure. corps. equipment,

strength, corps organization. principal

barräcks or camps.

b) Data on military leaders and their activities.

c) Coup d'état groups within the Armed Forces.

d) Military relations with other Latin American

countries.

e) Ideological indoctrination of the Armed Forces.

Program postures and media.

1).

Data on Panamanian Military figures in international

organizations U.w., Inter-American Defense Board),

military attaches. in and from Latin American

countries.

8) Plans for counter-insurgency training.

h) Armed Forces relations with

the Church:

14.

THE CHURCH

:..

a) Ecclesiastical Hierarchy.

b)

Position and controversies between foreign and

national clergy.

c) Participation of the Church in internal politics.

d) The Church's

secular organizations (i,e. Catholic

Working louth).

e) The Church's campaign against Cula.

{)

The Church's penetration. of peasants, workers, and

students.

1:

§) The Church's relations with Canal Zone Authorities.

h)

Inter-relationships between plans of the Church and

the U.S.A.

i) The Church's relations with the Panamanian Government.

j). Influence of the Church on education.

15. FUNCTIONS. CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA ON MENBERS OF THE FOREIGN

SERVICE AND THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED TO THE COUNTRY.

a) UN. •

OAS, Inter-American

Defense Board.

:

...

: :

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 10

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

= 8 -

CS-311/02108-64

c)

Panamanian officials in Latin American countries;

Latin American officials in Panama.

d)

Information obtained in diplomatic circles regarding

the internal life of the country.

'e)

Dispatching of official documents, seals, signatures,

etc.

16.

NECESSARY

THE PRESS.

a)

Data on Jourrslists and diffusion media in Panami.

= b)

Possibilities of using these journalists within the

country and abroad.

17. STRUCTURE OF GOVERNMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL FUNCTIONS.

a) Relations between the Executive and the Ministries.

b) The function of Congress. its most outstanding figures.

Relations with the

"Yánkee" Embassy,

the North

• American monopolies, and the canal authorities.

c) Data on the ciosest collaborators of R. Chiari.

d)

The Judicial Power.

positions"

Personalities occupying high

Important laws.

Repressive laws.

Relations of the Judicial branch with other

branches of the government.

e) Other governmental organs - their functions.

1) The necessity of recruiting collaborators to

gather information on these issues.

18. SPOTTING OF COLLABORATORS TO INFORM ON TEE NATIONAL ECONOMY.

a) New economic policy of United Fruit.

b) North American investments.

c)

Position of Panama regarding Central America

conomic integration

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

