# 104-10186-10161

## Page 1

104-10186-10161

INFORMATION REPORT.

INFORMATIONAREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thia matet

HE AYOR RETHIN DE MONONN THIONTO O SOO CHIINA HIATOR WIIIN R00 MENATE CE TOO HIGHNE LATA T

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY CubA

SUMICT orEn" (an alias)

REPORt NO.

CSC1-316/01217-65

DATE DISTR. 2S March 1965

NO. PAGES I

REFERENCES • CS-311/00115-64

(Page s)

3 July 1968

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ MArCh 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

TIES IS LEVEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOVACE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL DE CONTENT IS TENTATIVE:

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a sertes contalaing personality

inforastion provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the

individuals

mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Vorna" is the secretary to Felix Rafael (Inu) (See

CSCI-316/00<30-65, 2 February 1965) in Tramites (the Central

Processing Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional

(National Liberation Department • LN) of the Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)..

2.

"Norma" was born between 1912 and 1944, is five feet seven

oreight inches tall,

weighs

about 115 pounds, and has a medium

build.

She has a white complexion, light 'brown hair and eyes,

thin eyebrows,

teeth.

" thin face, a hooked nose, and white, uniform

"Norma" always wears a uniform.

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information on

"Norma."

5

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

* NA

dia debt

I NAVY

REP

CISCSO *

1'* TENS

INSA

/ FBI

2

(Pote: Field die Dutise

INFORMA PION REPORT INFORMATION REBORT

MH/ C/CA

TEEi

LX 2516

WI/C/110

Whited

JE

TO PROJECT (AUMUG/1

MH/CURR

_LSC1316/0127-5

MH/C/RR. Co

RIDLAX

SEUVRIMATING!

TOTALS. MiC S (1).

WE 1 (1), CL 4, RID 1

115: LD: 58*

10T/0F

VIBR

---

