# 104-10122-10075

## Page 1

104-10122-10075

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WE Division

ATTENTION.

:

Mr o

FROM

= I0C- 9959

: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support)

SUBJECT

: 5-5514

# 78635

1.' Reference is made to your namorandun dated 7 October 1959 whorein

an appropriate clearance vas requested to enable you to use the Subject 1n

connection with his extensive contacts with individuals of the Latin-erican:

countries.

4

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction

Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of

the Subject, as cescribed in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

above.

3. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent

themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

DoS/183) rproval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later

ADDS/85 alte to change the status or use of this individual, a request for

Chief/SSD a

val to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

Dep Chier Diffice.

A to Chief

This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's

Ch. CaR services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memor

Ch. SRD

andun.

Ch. Inv. BC/

Ch.

Sup. Br.

Desk 18. 3

YOR WE DIATOR OF SOURSE:

Desk SB-

Ad & Trng

Conneda

CLOSED

BUCCI/ jmt

9 October 1959

Files

SECRET

---

