# 104-10100-10223

## Page 1

104-10100-10223

t.!

CLASSIFED MESSÁGE

SECRET

la-d

ROUTING

FB/CIOF

5661

16 OCTOBER 1963

D:064

ES HO INDEX

II Fil: N0 720-120-11

T°.

MEXICO CITY

160cт 63 22

DiRECTOR

STO CEN

DEFERID

AOUTINE

INFO: 1000, GACl, CD E, GR:/D :, CEE, CAnt 5, RF, VR

PHIORITY

INFO PRIORITE NEXI

C.TE DI 6 1 6 5

REF: MEXI 6550 (IN 40023)* (HOT SUIT

ICHARVES! KAPOK

1. FORL

SOME DEMBERS OF CHISON DELECATION TO THE JEVENTH CONGRESS

OF INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ARCHIJECTS (UIA) HELD HAVARA 29 SEPT' - 3 OCT AFTERANDE

WENT MEXI TO ATTEND VIA GENERAL ASSAMBLY AND INTEFNATIOHAL SYMPOSIUM ON

ARCHITECTURE. MEXI GROUP NOW SCHEDULED LEAVE DIPTI 0100 HOURS 19 OCI FOR RIO.

FOLLOWING BIO DATA ON THREE MENIERS OF GROUP KIONN TO BE MEXI:

A.

1901, HORAN;

U.S. EDUCATED; MBR NPC;

B. 1901, TOKYO; U.S.

EDUCATED; XBR CCP;

CHINA ARCIDTTECTURAL SOCIRY.

C.

B. CINCA 1919, MANCHURIA:

¿FRENCE: EDUCATED;1

TUNG CHT UNTY, SIANCIAT:

2. DUKING STAY GROUP MIXI UNILATERAL APPROACHES MADE TO

AID

DEFECTION OR

FOE PURPOSES OF AS JESSMEIT AND POSSIBLE DE TEPING,

PLACE.

FOLLOWING COMPACTS WITTE

3Y FORMEN

PAPINER Li ANTIFEECAURAi FIRM CILINA AND BY MBR U. 3. FIPN

_PIEVIOUSLY

ASSOCIATED WITI,

ACCEPIED ITERVIEW WITH KURART STAFPER WHO USED COVEN:

CONtINUED

==as

dean +8-4-98-86928

to: 868 8-8-199

# 6 5 148%

# H

pringiare

Tino ties

16074

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SICEI

UN!!

EXT

DATE

D INDEX

D NO INDE

DI FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTIN*

• T4!

151

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INTO :

ROUTINE

PACE THO

10

INFO

CITE DIR 76166

RESRARCH SCHOLAR CIDIA. CONVERSATION FRIDDLY AND DICIDED DIECDASION MATHLAD

APPROACHED EX KIBARK CONTROLLED

TRO TAS STUDENT

1947. СОПРАСТ ИТТЯ|

KHONE TO OUR CHICONE IN ARTECATION,

ALTHO

_IT ALONE KITH OUR NAN FOR HALF HOUR.

ATTIIOLE FRIEDLY BUT

SETHND TO FOLLOW PERRANCED LINE AND

FROVESKED COEIRTE EXTEP CHUTESE

CLATHED COUTACT ESTERY CHTKIN AID ARICAN "PRINIDS" CONHINKKED

_EDITED TO

HICKLY DISTRAILE IT CHLOESS. CONTACIS WTIN BOTH

FRIENDLY DRSCUSSIONS STICE OFERATICHAL DISCUSSION DID HOT SURN APPROPRIATE IN

ETTHER CASE.

3.1

BROTHER, U.S, CITIZEN, ARRIVIRG MEXICO 16 OCTOBER TO TALE WITS;

AND ASIC IOD IF MISERS READ IN FREE WORLD.

O 4O REQUEST MOTOR ACTIVITLES GROUS BRAZIL AS FIASIATE AND ATIRRE

DEVIIOP FURFER BIO AND ASSESSET DAXA IF NATURAL ACCISS TO GROUP CAN RE FOUND.

DO NOT RECOND FORCED APPROACH TO ANY OF GROUP, SINCE OUR OOVER FOR TIES

ACTIVITY WEARING THODY AND TIERE IS LONG RANGE COAL OF FUTURE FOLION UP THESE

CONTACTS WEXI APPROPFIATE ACCESS CAN BE ARRANGED.

CONT PRUED

COOROINATING DEFICENE

SHOD® 1

REPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AGIGENTICAIING

Capy Na

---

## Page 3

Ches :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DFIE A: CSFIENO

2

3

ROUTING

journ

FIN: DIRACTOR

CONF:

INFO:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

PACE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR

76166

5. FOR DEX?: PIS IDENTINY OTHER KARS OF NEXT GROUP EUROUTE [

FONTARD TO

OF RESULTS

AIT ADDITIONAL INPO CE PURPOSE TRIP TO

MYTHE WITH BROTHER.

AND

ALSO INFORM

KID OF NESSAGE

A/DCTE (C)

WH/ 3

was halass

CCONSINATINO OFFICENS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE IS U OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

77/85

AUTGRTCCATING

Coor No.

---

