# 104-10183-10165

## Page 1

104-10183-10165

TRANSMITTAL

TOCS INFORMATION REPORE

ORIG.

UNIT

EXT.

HH/SV/Iatel/Repprts

DATE

5547

2 Oст00ет 1961

CONHRMAYION CCPIJ

WH/SA 12

INFORMATION COPIES.

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6,

I*,

DATE DISTRIBUTES

3 October 1964

DISSEMINATION

SA/R

3

$A/SI

11 VS/R

Sa/int

ET/WAVE

1-7

WE/3/R

SA/EOB 2

SA/SO/H4

1

[WE/5/RI

SA/CI

SA/SO/N$ 1

IWEA

SA/MOB L

WE/

EVALLAMÓN

REQUESTED

STATE

HANOLING INSTRUCTIONS

ARMY

NAVY

Amwrripll

CLASSIFICATION

039

SECRET

ROUTING

ter 3 1422201

=.;

1 2, CA/PSG, DODS, VE 8, WH 9

MECEDENCE

ROUTINE

(IX-84981)

7220FP-14320

SP (ANWH1P-1, [UNSNAFU-19)

Llaison

1

3

2

1/15-4

115-2

ATR

YO FOREICS DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTRENTICATING CIFICIE

CTASITICATIÓN

SECRET ESA

ioraftn 0r,, 5, t4,

SH4S+88 482494740 121-22

FOCRSINATIAG CHFICIA,3)

NE/3/R

(by phone)

M.TAl& CHTEI

consvino Cnganlins

"earar

pao #

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO TUREIGN DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Inteiligence Information Cable

• ROLTINE

COUNTRY

CUBa

DATE OF

INFO.

LATE SEPTEMBER 1964

- SUBJECT -

VIENS OF CLAN INBASSADOR TO FRISCE ON FIDEL

CASTRO'S EFFORTS TO DIMINISH INFICESCE OF

CUBAN CONSLNISIS

FRANCE, PARIS (29 SEP INBER 1964)

TYSTR 3 OCTOBER 1964

LACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL:

REF

IN 84981

FIELD REPORT NO.

CUB.AS BUSINESSUIS IN EXILE WHO TRINELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY AND HAS

GOOD ACCESS TO CIBLE DIPIONSTIG INST-LITIONS. HIS REPORTING HAS

BEEN LIMITED.

3. TY TATE SIPTENBIR 1964, iNTONIO CARRILLO CARRERAS, CUBAN

ANBASSATOR TO FRANCE, MADE THE FOIZENING LOUMENTS ABOUT THE EXTENT

OF CONSIST INFIFICE IS CBS. INLID CONNEST: 059-13654,

CS-3/576,3:2, REPRIED CURRILD'S STiTINEST THIE, AS CASTRO'S

PERSONAL REPRESSiNTIVE, NE HUI BETS ASIGNED THE TASK OF RE-

ESTABLISHING DOM: BOG INILE DO MISTERS TIROPE BY RESOVING

2. 1I:XI. CODIED HAS FIRM LONIAO: ONE CLBAS COMMUNISTS.

HE CORRESHY I DINDDISHING THAIR MIZUENCE IN CUBA BY REDUCING

THE SCRISOR SAM IOCIOS CONSIDES METICIALS IN THE

GOMERILE. DO SO TO 101D EMER GENER: GISTRALLY IS NOT

SECRET

181910131:

Ma nis ar.

---

## Page 3

S-I-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEU

IN

84981

PAGE

2

3. A RECENT EXAMPLE IS THE CASE OF STANCEL LUZARDO GARCIA,

MINISTER OF INTERNAL TRADE, AMUSE ALTHORITY OVER SEVERAL DEPART-

MENTS IN THE NINISTRY WAS ENDED BY ORDER OF CASTRO. IN ADDITION,

COSTROL OF FOOD SEPPLIES IN ORIETE PROVINCE HAS BEEN TAKEN FROM

LEZARDO AND ASSIGNED TO JOSI LIANISA, WHO IS PERFORMING WELL AND

BECOMING INCREASIVGLY INFILENTINE. (SOURCE CONNENT: LLANUSA,

IN ADDITION TO BEING DIRECTOR DE TUE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SPORTS,

IS NOW AISO DIRECTOR OF THE NATIOSL INSTITUTE OF THE TOURIST

INDUSTRY.>

4. SISTERS, CARLOS PITSEE ROPRIGLEE RODRIGUEZ IS LOSING

SICH OF HIS EARLIER STMORITY, FOR EXAMPLE, HIS EARLIER CONTROL

OVER THE COILE INDUSTRY NIE BIES TRINSTERRED IN ORIENTE PROVINCE

TO DERVIND ESCHONE, DIG L8 PININ DES RIO TO ANOTHER OFFICIAL.

(HEADQL ARTIAO CUMULOT: : SRIOR DERMIDIO ESCALONA ALONSO HAS BEEN

A MILITARY CONMANDER IS PINAR CLI RIO PFOVISCE.)

3. IS ADITIOS, IDITH LARCE: BUCHAC: DE ORDOQUI HAS BEEN

DISMISSED FROM HER POSITION AN ENSCUTIVE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL

6. JUIRE ARS SAiSO THAT iDL:RU jUVI, SECRETARY GENERAL OF

THE CESTRAL DE TRIBIJIPORES DE CIBA RISOLICIONARIA (REVOLUTIOSARY

CERAS BORKERS' OPE MA:TIUS, CTER!, IS AS HIS WAS OUT AND SAY DE

8a9 $ 9 $8

19 F:609°

......:

Held de, Ale. .

---

## Page 4

- :

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORSIGS DISSEY

81982

PAGE

REPLACED BY JUAY ALVEIDA BOSQLE, WHO HEADED A CUBAN MILITARY

DELEGATIO: TO BULGARIA, THE ISSR, AND OTHER EAST EUROPEAN COUNTRIES

IN LATE JULY 1964.

7. ENRIQUE RODRIGUEZ LOECHES, CUBAS ASBASSADOR TO MOROCCO,

ATTENDED A MEETING IN HAVANA RECENILY AT WHICH FIDEL CASTRO

REFERRED IN AN OBSCENE NAY TO THE PARTIDO UNIDO DE LA REVOLUCION

SOCIALISTA (UNITED PARTY OF THE SOCIALIST REVOLUTION, PURS)

WHEN RODRIGUEZ ASKED FIDEL SOMEWHAT RHETORICALLY WHETHER HE

PERSOVALLY HAD NOT FORMED THE PARTY, CASTRO ANSWERED HEATEDLY

THAT THE PARTY MND BEES THE CREATION OF ANIBAL ESCALANTE DELLUNDE

AND THAT ILL, SIDEL, IS DO GOING TO CHANGE ALL THAT": (FIELD

CONVENT: RODRIGUEZ ADFCHES ARRIVED IS MADRID FROM HAVANA ON 24

SEPTEMBER. 17. 60UE 10 PARIS ABO!? 26 SEPTEMBER AND STAYED WITH

CARRILLO AT LIE ESASSY. Y

&. PRIESTO INF CENAR! SEFRA, INDÜSTRIES MINISTER, AND

CELIA SANCHEZ MISDELY, SCHETARY TO THE COUSCIL OF MINISTERS,

HAVE BIES PARLICUIARIN DUTSPOKES RECESIL! IN PRIVATE CRITICISN

OF OLD- IDE CUBAS COMMOTS.

• IND OF MESSAGE

s-l.a-k-l 1

NIKI MISS

1a is 00 e

---

