# 104-10119-10316

## Page 1

104-10119-10316

CLASSIFICATION

SUBJECT

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1O MAYTZ

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR."

23500

On this date a recued a call fron Martin,.

Lukoskie, CCS/ CCB. I asked ans

to identify

o his by true some the Ogency expelgee whe

Rock in the past exterowly wed the pen-som

on the Silent. (Lukochis identifie let on loand tent.

questa.

butial as bodies sean sueded no record of

David ft Jha, and numeros files in the nomer

or Tini3 9

wine; and Howed Hunt

I consulted peasally with le dayle, SRS in hos thit

Agency eng loyees whose works

Layle recalled fron mean

the pen-some

sochijo,

intet of the

FORM

7. 62 | 954

CLASSIFICATION

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED PROM AUTOMATIC

DECLASSIFICATION

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

(40)

3%0

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

10 May 72

SUBJECT

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR.

23500

novels had been to provide

a series sinilar to the

James Band sovle, preseating a fronable singe

of the Ggery

The progent bad, boyle said, bas under the

are of CI Stoff It hak sat, he anded,

proud by successful.

Select file rylecte that he retried 30 quie 1970

connitin with the Prandents Chiis Trig.

tressuch is bilget had written under the

quidans of CI baff, lagle odeses aparat identi

Deputy Chief, CI Stuff (Red Line 1054), on Ma Couple

ton; chiy, cI bloff.

Le called Mai Lufoskie on Red Line 1978. ln li

obserend advised Cles, his senting, th

that I did

OFFICE AND TITLE

MARIENTE:

FORM

4. 69 | 954

140)

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR.

23500

not have the authrity to identify Deve It

at no time die l identify blest as the saen of

the jean- nome Daird ft. John.

OFFICE AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

1062 1 954

CLASSIFICATION

GROUP 1

XCLUDE RAN NO TOMATI

OWMORSLPICATIO

(40)

---

