# 104-10175-10164

## Page 1

104-10175-10164

L ONCLASSIFIED

SUBJFCT: (Ophonal)

FRCM:

Chief, WH/PO/A

TO: (Officer degnation, noo number, and

INTERNAL

ONLY

• CONFIPENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NO.

DATE

& SECRET

30 January 1962

DATE

RECEIVED

FOSWANCED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

k1/3 - Haxico

i: 1

4.

S.

7.

8.

10.

11.

19.

19.

Chie?, WH/PO/s /ÜWs

Ruth F.

5

goll

Et and

Ole file -cott -iny

safe,

Do Not Re pro

ETURN TOTAL

PORE So 610 TONGS I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

701-778841

INTERNAL.

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

1900901: 04873646

2188

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Miratati

in't car ringlete cit

SECRET

"o. tear

26 January 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

AMUPAS-1

elainentia

I. On Friday, 26 January 1962, Jane Roman (CI Stal? Liaison

mGM une inionIng:

What is our relationship to AMPAS-l at this

time?

rising the parise o section to the Buread.

assign a I nuncer and would not otherwise identify ber ...

to the Deparent of úustice...

2. I advised Mrs. Roman that. AMUPAS-1 is still as agent for WH

Division. I further advised her that we would have no cojection.to

the Department listing her as a prospective vitress 11 it assigned

her a T nunber and would nut otherwise identify her to the Department

of Justice. I raised a question concerning ANUPAS 1's fate on her

retun to the states, since we did not wish to destroy her operational

potential. Mrs. Roman said that she would advise the Bureau of our

continuing interest in AMUPAS l even if the latter retursed to the

states, and would get assurance from the Bureau that she would not be

subpoenaed.

Eriest

Chier, WH/FO/A

SECRET

201-278841

I/BR

---

