# 104-10217-10000

## Page 1

104-10217-10000

fe inste

: MAL

10 Disg 1969

•LOOBAIDLM FOR TER RESCRO

SUBTECT: CLETANA JCEEDA CHARLE

1. On 2 Aprll 1963 Dorotha Nstlack, Demotlo Icploitatloe

fectioa, ACZI, telebonel to the aftoce that a bantar anul (lemanl

Joseph Charlos had L0ft Enft1 ols tys Iallar tnt hal just arrived

vas covaribed es Preatdant al the iune Canarulalo, Purt en Frlmea,

Fadth, 1o 10 11 PenideTi Devallor'o fersr. Aro. intlact mntionad

thut nho hal alartod Cal, La Kall ln lloe to contast Diyus 18

arinr to cotala nore bacrornl infomstion sod es cnsceauet en

chaslas.

₴.

la 1 lny 63 lers, Datlaes edvleod thss Charur us staying at

the Part Sesrte lotal, En Ieae, enl Ehnl lo had talegtcenl lar

tg bi, t tota,

aince her sny lal bamn swalled lo hin ly Dsynr. Coarles eoneldanet

hes to ba lo podut es esutare in leeblagica..

Pneordsg toln.

Canelos hal aunnmsta to oe Vloe Penilert Sertmon, Bentor Eootins,

eal Congnurtug Boguru (Flortãe).

Lnner, Eumos me malling to tall

to inpsanstativos el lry, Metlant's ostion ins, lsinol statod trat

tho Ledtlas Dah ua Sa Afad una maly to ta to Era Josi 8o tale ta

CENTLeS MNl LIISOd CIA lO SOCNNY MiE DiaziME spRt very LisiIO

Bogllth and s fluney in Iunch wne toarafase reralred for the trtoi

vio, lro. Katloes stated eht ese mest la tnla to obtala a Prenca

Lnst Sa Hr ASY, COVmOP'A LELsBA, dS to vnla not 30 e

intelliomsa offienr. It ue crosdal torô Jeera Enlod, Esy Youti

0rt1os, ino han a molodps of se frunch lingaage would assergary

the ACiT ogaccastatv

o tad biso ermungi tist

Balog woul' mset tha ACSI reprosestutlyo (Caytata dogern) at dlaa Pare

tberetoa Fotel shere Ourlen ma oteying.

3. 0n 2 Hny 63 Mra. Antlaes repartod that Col, 1a11 had Ister serd

Mr. Doyup 1n Weot Pyln Srsoh, Deyar hod eyatrtad Chsrlon es Dlroatzr

of bis bani in Ealti, Carles, ascortine to bryes, fomarly bad no

politienl enoairons but lo vleu ol tho eureas polltienl edtustian La

rrver bad eivea Charles letterg ef latretutios to Sensto.

sentins und ta orssr ontictale in kaonington, Charles vanted to vee

President Irmaly and Jnined had gonn to the balte lousg to arranz»

fos en sypotrtaant, lis iae wall ivosived by the Prorldest'e appalet

mnt nocrotary and Invited to aimer that eruring with the appolntsest

---

## Page 2

•* .

perstasy.

ittend the dinner has sunt to len lans inabeas

do Charles 10 travalling, seconding to Deyss, Mita a Desan

saalochot mused da lasrmachilet. de Notauntlet la aseceleted

w1th Carlos la a burrass verter sa laits sol la trying to ermany

a santing for Charles uith Ties Proaldent Fatea

3. Ca 3 My 63 Jin Dalaz tolozioned to scores that do bed bal a

five-isar searlen the previon day with Charlos end that le Bel

doteined both parasality lots sad vite ly Carles as what thali

Darted Otates choall do in the current insten altactor. tales

elvisad that ha m trnetting too infatso to leshtester

6. On 6 say 63 to Bunts, lupert Irat, arrest that 1

Dividen retal to spast to Charles ent lales mo assad to arrange

na aratatan. Ir. lassect talegard it aggradestaly 17t to

advice that sta did just soonaved a talentens call from lau. de

Matrenchild, esking artetance in etetning hotel rearvations in

lentingtos Upon bairy 80la thet us hed to social ans el ostria

Ing sorrations, in. Hntlach stated that tha vould cheat visa the

Assta Dejartems Protocal Offles do toternna velaà hotela vonla

adult segro maste. lo. Milos stually mi ruparvationa et the

Albea Anury. A choes vith jia Dales rovniod shat ho bad arransed

lon Charles to not the lil reprentative in lin lobby of the Willard

Bossd, backingts, D. Co, at 18:00 per en 1 lay, Attento to see

Mrs. Entlech thes antares vm sureneural. At C850, Y Meg, s

call vas undo to kni. Matian to ecutira that Charles vonla be 1a

Hanblagton on that day ul that armate had bira sade fur a =

meting sath an Apery repeeesstetive for 12100 sooni. lry. Mailses

started that bath kim, da Mimechtlas and Carried bed balled bar

bor. krs, Matlast ven emearned that CIA end Assy should not ba

veling at cruse purposes. the had restived arserenion tru

Add to sat Charles at linen and falt tal 1t vali not be politse

Por has to vithtran tros far spotstasm stora Any essaidered ke

the podat el eastars vich Charles, Nego Munts Informed la Darlote

at ten emilset and maned on the mesales thrs the lal Rivledo

regretstive signs sout Charles end las. Maland ad non ad tast

entative docileed the effer anl seresated tart a mating Inter 2a

tan siramon do erranged. is, lntles halloved that dua te cam.

Itunties fron sides the ovuld not ersedounty vithdray and sequent.

---

## Page 3

ANN M9? 39E19E4

• I unt Kan. Intlach in the looty el tha Hotel Willard notl

by l, end Ens. do Nchreschl14t, He luschel In the retount 18

tan hotel. Me, do lnsrensch1118 matloned test ho had boen bor ia

Fata, lessio, but duries the Eelsis horaintles had baes taten to

Polant se a mall child.

Be bad syout anoralestaly 3) fara La

Folend feter to lould Var II and Lad served la to Palial Any.

En alno mationed that ls had hoss e amber el aa ICA tea to Fuge.

alaria 1n 1551 uni valle in Bolçndo had est Analia sho saa vialtleg.

Belgrado us the sane. No hal spatra to domlis ant mas isital to

vost Aulend, sisel suitarses so has enemyrol Mla boro 10 2a sellas,

Deans do

In hen o mD. in Malou dni in bud son loaching marten.

1rs, Co Howroocheles ma burn in Peting, Chim. Ios Bather vas

Toasten and bar nother Frens, and sha la an em hes besa e fasting.

dantones, In, is lahrmachilat mntional test he has to marias

¿or sontin sal that la lo a partni vita lin la a sdeal tastersa

In Malte

8. Bott Carlos and da Misssentiat vora unclens to sunge

moting at brunot offleals la lasting & mentioned to

Charlen tars a meting had be arnael ter hin it 815 sed that a

le. Grien onle us lin la tro lot. ht 1110 fre. Mallest, Mr. as

K. de Mommallas end I cartel on Charles manteed in 100

lostry tasting fer estact.

S. In the enurse of the lechem ensuration, Garles he

mortical to lay. Marlent tunt ha tastral to ecs a Nr. 11e9, AD, 1a

diocuse 1a eld to laltl. lator thas afternoon try Antloes elled to

otato tart the hod called too Ptato Departuat do jass along Charleo®

roquers. Mr, Zonarats (Deste) had eniled ler beat to sesa en tas

Hostien Desh man'e entrans dienlanne that anyone is the Volted Bestes

Goverust should be in officies estact with Charles. Da dant e

conesdared Charlos so ha aloze to tha Duveller Governat, to have

bera smaired to soval shady fleanelal daalines, md la gorarel,

do an undesirable charoter. Iu. Intlach sabad viether the Agency

hnd ay toterest in Charles which sould dotats Surther content idth

Charles.

10. lage starts abocked vita ll liviaten and detentrod that ne

a result of the rating with Charles, the ID/P Hastien Dest had no

Arther plas to cantert his I told hm. Ktlach thet ous interest

sooned to have beau satlatiod sal thet I baldevad a resold doggo

---

## Page 4

Ul, Hayno Delços, ID/P Coordinator, called on I lay to Inquire

concernins our inralvenant in too Charles caes.

Be stoted that ACSI

had called his earlier that day to assure him that ASSI had so direet

Interst la Corles and that 1t me setine as an interdlary at tha

reguest of Coveral Delmar obo had paobod the lead to Geraral pites.

ACI us concerned that due to the no un in appoiatanta to see

Carlos, chargos rigit lator be undo that ACSI had Interferred ar

had obatructod CLA contact vith Charlee.

I explatood to balson wast

had happened and he loter onlled back to stale that Alsi vis completely

satia iod in the vay the ratter had been handled.

12.

On 8 Msy Mrs. Matlach telayhoned to adrina that the Operational

Branch of AChI vas discusing the Carlos care vito Do/P to astonairo

Arture course of action.

the ms etill connhst exacared over her eun

position in tho cass sinoe Charles considered her to be the focal podet

in banklagton.

I reitarated to bor thit the netter vas one for oithar

the Stato Departuat or tha oparstional elmanto to boodle and c2st

we priorsod to dinengago euralves.

Yes. Matlons santioned that 8

aspatch had baen recoired to the effeet that a cousin of Charles una

praniently mentioned as e sucoessor to Duvaller abould the latter

be overtarant

She was of the opinion that the ls everant should

contime to "play ball" with Carlos de a future asset la Saltler

5 seati

A. P. CLAIXONECI

Distribution:

Cads a 0/Ca1e8

1 - Her Jort 0ffles

1 a Surport (stunts)

1 = LA Breach

1 - Indes (Control)

1 - Dep/Call chrono

---

