# 104-10250-10206

## Page 1

104-10250-10206 rANDARD FORM NO. 8A

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES' GOVERNMENT

TO

:

Deputy chiel, special security Divisit

DATE: 23 December: 1952

FROM :

SUBJECT:

Chief, Special Referral Branch

BALMES, Hidalgo

#65077

Pursuant to your request contained in memorandum

dated 22 December 1952, Special Agent James M. SPROUSE contacted

Mr. PauL PAXTON, Operations Officer, FI/WH, at his office,

Room 1112, Quarters "Eye" on 23 December 1952, in order te

determine the permissibility of a contact of the Subject by

the FBI and the procedures by which this contact could be

made.

2. Mr. " PAXTON advised the Agent that the Subject is

presently in

and that there is no objection on the part

of WH to the Subject being contacted by the FBI. He stated

chat the Subject could be contacted al

•Mr• PAXTON also stated that 1l 1

were preferable the Subject could be interviewed by their station

personnel and this information furnished to SSD for relay to

the FBI.I| PAXTON stated that the FBI had an agent named WARVER

who recently had been in contact with the Subject.

He said that WARNER knows thel

would probably contact him before interviewing the Subject.

1207,16-7

3. PAXTON requested that he be advised if the Subject was

to be contacted by an FBI representative and of the approximate

date of the contemplated contact. He desired this information

so that thel

I could be alerted to the

FBI's approach. 27,16-7

Audew I. Saucher

Andrew G. Maucher

78I. agest Warne

Hawere, I

that if could beon

to catervieo Balines is

our people is

1 Desk

g Гост

SECURITY INFORMATION

---

