# 104-10219-10126

## Page 1

(104-10219-10126]

!

16 Forember 1961

SEERANEUM PORS

From:

SUBJEOTY

Nr. H. I. Harray

dalta Potocial

BEVIGION INTO EN NOIL, DERMAN AND LERIA PIPID, ALO AN

ES. FISIE L. TIKLD AL NRS. JOCKY IBO DOOD AI

1. On Tuesday norning, 14 Hovember 1561, I contactod bir.

I Elviolas, who is atill the Bentor care officer fur the REVIEION Case,

42d

Inquired of him shatbar tho suurce had over beon questionad on bis possible

mowledge of the 10r Casa. Mr.

advisod thet to did not bellove that

any suan guarien had been pue to sYllet, bit eddod that the son thought bed

croused ain ora mind only a thort tire 4go.

indicated that the

volune of requirenanto uhich had had to to vorked lito tho schedulo of source

debrierlogs sus no trot, ther this was but one of a viole series of cases

and personalitten taich should bo covered with HIVIAIGY as the Elme allows.

Is vien of the tact that My una pitansas to see IVIsIon that alternoos,

he sucrented that 1t sight bo edicabla for bin to discos the natter wit

the aouroe tendiataly, and entempt to ferret out shetier HIVISTe could provide

any information at all concerciro the Far, thol biosypoarance, the tavolvement

of thess respective relatives, sciuding the beess, ot ali:

ile afternoon, de.

advised by telephos, that he actually had

questioned FEllsIon on his krowledge of the Mallo, ot al, and had detoralued

thint the source actually had no knowledgs of the case save that source nad

noquired from the prose. He indicated that 'although the case of Hermann Fiold had

ben Alsonered 1n folead, he, the source, ind anined the turession that the

footo of the cuss vure protty tch as revealed at the time of Hermann FIlIa'=

ralease frus onatody in 1954 (?), and that he had never heurd any indicationa

from souroe's Boviet Intelligerco Contacte to Indicate that ory of the TIKIDA

had been trolved 1a Intelligence operatione fur the forfets.

Mee

advised

that he had run through a number of the individunl names vith source, including

the namos of Erlie WAr, Terts FIELD, Bale I. Mata ass ElBle I. BOOB, and

JoDept LeO 104B, asd that BETISION had ralled to react to any of these nomos,

and vas inable to provido any Information whatever.

CCf201-284338

BRORIT

---

