# 104-10170-10022

## Page 1

104-10170-10022

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

SECRET

15 November 1962

MEKORANDUW

fOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Mr. Helng? Conversation

with Lulm Fernasder Rocha

nod Jose Marla Lass of the DRE Rocarding their

Organtistlon's Belntionahip with the Agency:

TINE AND PLACE:

1500 hours, 13 November 1082, Mr. Holai?

office

PERSONS PRESENT:

Mr. Helms, Luis Fernandez Rocha, Jone

Marla Lass,, Nestor Sanchor (allas

I. Is. Roche statod he wanted to sention two-thinga

bofore starting tho conversation ulth

Ar. Holas:

3. He as very morry about the difficultles

wich may have beak caused by tho Alfurt-X1un1

Herald Herspaper Licidont.

b. He dentrod to thant ir. Holas for bla

"dolerance" and oxpressed his grestent sypreciation

for being given the opportunity to diocuss their

probles ViCh Mr. Helme. Mr. Helms roplied that he

fully understood and accepted the explanation sbout

the neuspaper article and he was happy to have the

opportunity to diocuss the Agoncy's relatlonsalp

WIth Mr. Roche's group.

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CHA

---

## Page 2

1

2.

Nr. Helms stated ho was fanillar with the DRE

mituntion and dosired to vort out

*alightly different

way of doing buolness. He realized there have boon upe.

and down in the relationship and that the Agency vas

not l1ly white in abidias by many of lts conmitmente, but

that nay of the chasgos vero due to factora beyond the

Agency's control, Ho continued there vere no decialoan

no yet made by the U.8. Govoranout regarding the future

handling of-the Castro probles. The primary items boing

considered at the present tine both in New Tork and

Washlugton vero the renoval of the missiles and borbers

fron Cuba and on-alte Inspection. M. Holas fully 59-

altzed that tho docialons walch may come about at the con.

clusion of these nagotiations will not be decisions ac

coptable to the DR!.. If a time coma when the DRY feels

their couras of action is no longer coapatible with U.8.

pollo, Mr. Holds panted te make lala polar cloes, "ede

DRE should bo frank and honest and so state it.

He did

not want to be devioue about our relationubip, and he wanted

to develop the relationship "as a reasonable collaboration".

3. Mr. Helms Informed locha he was changing the Agency

contact for the DRE in Minni. He aloo stated the new cos

tact vould be able to cone to Mr. Holas for any clarificatie.

SEUMET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

3

noeded regarding the relationalip. As for i future

operaiional prograa for the DRE, lo. Bolna statod ho pro-

sently did not soon what this would be. Mr. Rocha atatod

that 1n all honesty he could not guarantee that under all;

circunstances the DRI vould be able to continuo the re

Intlonship, for a change in U.S, policy toward coexistence

would differ from what the DRE belloves to a duty to their

country and he an tbe Secretagy General to bie men thin

would mean a break in our relationship as they felt they

must continue fighting Castro In any form possible. He

did givo Mr. Holms his word of honor he would inform bia

contact or Mr. Helna when the Dry felt they could no longer

cooperate with the Agency because of

the differonce in wist

they bollored in and U.S, polley. Roche clained they were

anxlous to cooperate with the Agoney, and 1t vas foollah.

to think that without Agency support they could continue

tholr present level of activity. He in lact stated that 80

to 90 per cent of their activity would conse 11 Agency funda

vere discontinued. Thin mould be aulcido, and according to

Rocha this he did not want providod a saticlactory errango-

ment could be reached.

1. Mr. Lass asked that they could expect rogerding

thair future orientation and plans. Rocha chined in and

stated that this was one of the difficultlos under which

---

## Page 4

they had been operating; 1.o, not knowing what the plana

were or what was expected of then. He added that in

order to direct his own organization, he must be aware of

the direction in which ververe soying before he could mike

tho propor declalons 1n his organiration. I. Helms

neered "e will toll you the truth and what the score

Ia when to know It ourselves". He aloo varned then that

when thie Inforastion is divulged, 11 nould bo is stricte

ost confidence on potivyl baals and not for the press or

the post of the estlo cornunity.. Mr. Holas addod that on

this question he rould be vory honest with them and ofther

toll them: s. I don't kaon; A. I woalt toll you: o. 1'11

toll you, and give then the satorantion thoy roquired for

propor orlentstion. Mr. Holms roltorated that regarding

this type of Inforsatiod tray met hoop":

'sippod Up. Accerd-

1mg to Mr. Helme the thinge got around 12 the Cuban exile

communley who, noodloss to any, & ustter of sono concert

• to b1a.

5. Rogarding the new contact It. Kolas stated 2e

wanted to seloct a man who would and could maintain the

• collaboration he and outlined, and would to helpiul and

of assistanco to the IRE. No aluo statad that thim contact

would bo rouponsible to his for the rolationahip. Mr.

Rocha statod ho wanted to do the point of contact in the

19:9

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

5

DRR and in his absence either Manuel Balvat of Jose Land

would be the altornato points of contact.

6. Ar. Helms stated there vero two elementa he

would 11ke to clarity:

1. The synten of kickbacks uned by the DRi.

Roche ind not fantllar with the tera'ilckback but

aftor a mort explanation explained that the DRY

dịd ant thair sembera to sire a cortain percentage

of their salary dopending on what they can dlord

for a foveral fund fron which the organization paya

for such itors as the Agency does not Iinance. One

of these

¡toma le publication os "The Cuban Report",

cortals vort 1a latia America (not spocifled) for

which the Agoncy will not pay, and a vory important

Item-the nipport of sone o? their poopio and famillen.

coming out of Cuba. Roche claimed this uns voluntary.

b.. Finances-I. Helme dendred to know if they

erica for

kopt some mysten of books, includinglops expenden

and salarlos for their latin Amarican oporations,

and 11 so who kapt their books. Rochs anewered they.

did k9ep books and added tàoy and a full tino sember

of the DRS tho vas a trained accountant in chargo of

thie departaent of thor organization. Mr. Helas

Silked

---

## Page 6

14-00000

6

suggested that an financos are a techaical and

difficult matter to deep close tabe cs, too Agency

could, Il Roche so doulned, nolp by providing a

go half

I1nance tochalellset up a not of books for the

DRE,

Roche fully agrood with the morit of thle

suggestion.

7. Ir. Helma again sssured Roche and Lass that with

rogard to the future, he would lot thon knOw as sOOn

ho himself knew what it would be. Rocha anted how long

Ar. Helan thought this would be. Mr. Holma siatod thie

ras somewhat of a hypothotical question but eatinated

that the prosont meatings, conversations, and segotiations

would possibly tako as long an a sonth. Mr. Belms statod

he reulled that allitary operations and possibly sose of

their propaganda would depend on our future course, but

he wanted them to understand that

there will shaya be nood

for good, spochile, dotallod Information walch the DRI Can

contributo, According to M°. Helma, "He need 11; you can

contribute

15; se'11 use 1t." Ar. Helms added do reslined

there were riska lavolved in collocting information, but

ho did not want socha to minunderatand tho value of 1e..

Mr. Helms also cautloned locha and lasa not to got luputient

over what may appear to do lack of uno of their ieforantion,

but to givo the Agancy a chanco to chock le oul.

JEANET

---

## Page 7

;*

8. Mr. Holma adled thore was one other polnt of

utmost importance, and that wan, that 1f in the future the

DRI dedired or wanted to have a press conference of desired

to appear on to,.

"Let us koon about 1t".

Mr. Helis etated

so dida't vast to to tuolr hando, and ho intendod to deal

WIth then as componuible son, but, "Give unp fair warning".

it. Helme did not want the DRe to thish ve desired to toll

then what they can or can not do, but he folt lt wad 1n

their interent to got our ronctlon on such mattere. Mr.

Eelas added, "You, Ir. Rocbs, aro a responsible nau. I

an s componalblo sAn: Lot'a do busisone 15 a maturo surnor.*

Er. Fochn fully agreed.

9. It. Rocha thon introduced the subject of "The Cuban

Report", the bak woekly newslotter. He bald the newslettor

was sest to the proms, sentors, corgressmen, the vaito

House, and other people in the U.B. lo wanted to know how

Mr. Helma folt about this publication. Mr. Holms wanted

to know 11 the Agoney rocolyed too intoll bolora 1t vid

printed 10 the sonslottor, ir. Roche antered that all

beloro 1t vas printed la the seralotter. Mr. Holma nd-

altied he lad not rosd the neueletter and that in the

meantino

the Drs could continue it.

Once the matter 1r

studded in sore detall, Ir. Helms sated to way dire some

16r9:8:

---

## Page 8

issrostions ve may viah to discuss. Bochi freckly admitted

thas the DRE folt they needed the nirslotter for thelr

arganization to bo able to influence pubile oplason in the

U.8. To antialy hill on curlenity, It. Telme sated i1

Sertor. Leatingt figures vore based ou "The Ciban Report.

Roche nasvered in the sIlliantive.

10. Rochs then naked what the Dal could expoct re-

anilm execution of military operations. Mr. Helms 12-

formed Roche that when they had & willtary plan to subalt

1t. The Agency would study lt and give them an ansver.

Dr. Helms added that 11 an aumes ma not forthcoaing in

a reasonablo lonith ol ileo, they abould agala dat lor

the ansver from thoir contact. Ir. Holna assured Bocha of

his contlaning personal Interest la this rolationship end

he waited Rocds to deal with bie Arosey contat; 1a Mlas1

WIth this l0 mind, but do warned lochs that sltsough ta18

So lie caso, he did not rant the DaS running end runa on

their contact on suttera they can deal uith in Manl. Rocha

understood.

I1. An ho (Rocha) leared there may have bees certala

assadoratardinge regarding a request by thema la charge

1a Bsens on elther the 23rd Or 84th Of Octobes, De folt 1t

necessary to sot torth lia positlos, The "aan in charge"

---

## Page 9

9

not wità lochs on ose al the above dates and nicod for

11T0 ses Iron the DRE Including Roche and Salvat to be

lafiltrated tato Cube for Intolligenco purposes. Con

olderias the willia 1n Cuba was on full alert by thin

date therefore greatly roducing the chances of success

of such an attempt,. Rocha triod to got further dotalle

rogardine the oparatione, but was only told they rould

probably da leod to direct artillery fire. Doablo to

got more dotalla on what ho considered a dangerous and

very risky alssion he declined the request. He addad bo

found it difficult to uedorstand the serioussens of such

= request.

do folt that be and salvat sa leaders of

thelr organtiation were not avrilable for such alaglona

and that as bond of his organtastico, he did not feel so

could send hie men to thalr dosth on such a vaguely do-

laed mlasion. Rocha continued that he had inlard bla

men that aithough the Da, as an organtiation, dould sot

take the responsibility for sanding then 1e, they vero

tree to go 11 they desired to so on their own. Mr. Helma

statod that, noodlous to say, proposala and raquesta from

both partles had to bo nada in all sertouanena..

12. Ir. Helma asted 1f there mas anythlug else

Rochs desired to discuss. Bochs answared negatively and

leaze was taken.

SECRET

---

