# 104-10172-10308

## Page 1

104-10172-10308

RIETURNTO CIA

Backgreund Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

1, 0

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FER22

2La-225

FROM:

DOCUMENT NUMBEA

22L0C0A-03745

DOCUMENT DATE

MICROFILMED

DATE

TO

RIF

ROOM

NO

Ortanoes

OFFICER'#

IMITIALg

COMMEN/UG 2 7 1952

WE/6

29 гu..

PNJ

inched dorminne aien the lor martire

men baron 'Il dis NECORD COPY la to Bo rocamid i

abe thee si she Danti call tho Contral Plio Soction far Po

manent donn

Chianco il: I1 8p 1898

J.

120.0. j

traces set 3o agu99

.5.

2I/AN

caligat: 1-20-55730

10.

88.

18

13.

14.

Poisto 610a

FILE TITLE

dange

FILE NUMDER

ENCLOBURE

SECRET

3 que: 1907

ABSTRATI

ZIBR

---

## Page 2

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, We Division

•REI

Data did te

225040473745

FROM

Airi

Chies of Station

SOLUB. and

DOC. MILÃ3. =50. 1

3417

2i April 1959

AT - MARCE T ONE

+ 48887 98 9464195.

NO NOLING HOURIO

INDOUNG CAN BE NOGED

IT QUALITO MQ DESA ONLY

(Shaala would appreciate racedrins any relevant

information you Day have on two Soviet Officials at present

serving in Finland.

They are:

GOLUB

Soviet Consul

N. HAKOET

- Correspondent for FIrud.

Both officials have been in social contact with members of the

SHADD Legation in celsinki.

This contact instigated by GOLUB

was allegedly so inquire aboud SADD immigration procedure.

MAKSEY acted as his: interpreter throughout the meeting

20.

SMA3 LE) has a trace in their files referring to G. B.

COLUB as

•Soviet Intelligence Officer acting as liaison man

with

the Finnish Security Police.

There-seens furthermore to be a sinilarity here with

the activities of Boris Lupovich TRETYAKOV (TRETIAKOU) Head

of the USSR Consular Section in Athens who has been conducting

similar inquiries with

the Sauds there.

01

Original and 3 = WE

COPY 7HD0 MA-

8/8R...

Diane

---

