# 104-10172-10081

## Page 1

104-10172-10081

interis, Eldest

SECRET

COP-

M0/326

22 December 1960.

Dear Clove,

CUBA

In my M0/1269 of 16th November, I mentioned tbe

FERNANDEZ opposition group.

I have now received a furtber®

more detailed

report on this group, and as it may be of

Intorest to you, I attach a cop y

We have no inforustion on the identitles of the riob

American businessan said to be financing the group.

Yours sincerely,

03

Dr. Cloveland Go Gran

TEACHERNT

SEGRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

social.

SiN:

• it to a so da 8

C= 0=P=Y

The Cabar Inel-Castro Guerilla Drsenisation of Allerte

LERKSUEE

1.

wealthy land-owner who raised three million dollars for Fidel

CASTRO's cause before the overthros of BATISTA, and who vas, until

recently, the boad of the Instituto de la Asucer (Suzar Institute),

has set up a guerilla organisation of 400 or his ex-employees ingide

Cuha, This organisation has the backing of rich American businesmen,

and 1t 1s FERNANDEZ'a Intention to expand this force and leep 1t vall

supplled with money, arna and ammunition with which to carry out aota

of sabotage.

2.

FERKANDEZ bag asked the following three persons to help hims

(1) Eduardo FERFER, tbe former Inspecto: General al the Cuban

A1r Force, who left Cubs In July 1960.

(2) Teddy WHITEHOUSE, a pilot of Pritial extraction, vio

earlier in 1960 vas responsible for settlag fire to

sugar crops fron the air.

(3) Geoffrey ROBERES of Butler, Roberta Associates, Ine. sho

May RoGuA, 's representative in HAVANA sod wbo was In

charge of all microvave and airsay installations of R.Gal.

mt11 ho had to leavo the country. He bas provided

FERNANDEZ's orgailsation with all freqaencies of S1 band

equipmant and microvaro equipment sard by the Cuban

Goverment and they are nou able to intercept messages sent

out on these channels.

30

The organisation has tuo 40ft, notor cruisers and 1y about

to purebage two moro. These craft will te used as mother shipe

---

## Page 3

?.

• atten

C Ba P-Y

-2-

for supplying equipaent to Cuban anti Castro guerillas and 1t 1a

planned to work then fron british cays off the Gulen coast. They

are to be supplied by light aircraft which can land on these cays,

eded boat will have a fast hydroplane for delivering suppiles to

the interfor.

So. At the roquest of the Fronte Revoluctorarlo Denocrat1o0

(F.E.D. - Revolutionary Democratle Front) FERNANDEZ's organisation

recently brought TEJERA (fnu) fran Cube by bast to the United States.

Apparently TEJRPA had been a cload Intimato al Fidel CASTRO, the

Cuban Prima Minister, and was brougit out of "ube at the requeat of

the Unitod States Goverrment.

5.."

Alberto FERNANDEZ has been asked by Mazuel Antonio. (Tony)

VARORA of the PaRaD, to take over the Oriento Provinco for the Pof.D.

when that organisation makes 1ts planned Invasion of Cuba,

---

