# 104-10126-10028

## Page 1

104-10126-10028

SECRET

SC # 24019X1

ASCA

24 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Examination by Mr. G. Robert Blakey of Sanitized

Portions of History of Mexico City Station

1. At 1745 hours on 23 August 1978, Mr. Scott Breckinridge,

Mr. Norbert Shepanek

and the undersigned

met with Mr. G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel of the House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA) •

The meeting took place in Mr. Breckinridge's

office. The purpose of the meeting, inter alia, was to make

available to Mr. Blakey certain sanitized portions of CS HP 329

(SECRET) ,

a three volume history of the Mexico City Station

covering

the period

*- 1969.

The portions selected for

sanitization were previously designated by Mr. Gary Cornwell

as

neing of interest to the HSCA.

Mr. Edwin Lopez, of the HSCA

.i, was also present, but did not have access to the Mexico

City Station material.

2.

Mr. Blakey was furnished the following sanitized portions

of the Station history which he read in my presence:

a. Volume I, Chapter II (C) - Station Expansion and

11969), consisting of pages 34 through 57.

b. Volume I1, Chapter 111 (A-3) - The Cuban Embassy,

consisting of pages 221 through 256.

C.

Volume II, Chapter III (A-4) - Operational Supyort and

Technical Collection Activities, consisting of pages 257 through 298.

"A Chapter,

d. Volume II, Chapter III (B) - Covert Action Operations

(portion relating to student operations only), consisting of pages

327 through 336.

e. Volume II. Chapter

LIENVOY and LITEMPO only), consisting of pages 409 through 423.

Volune IT. Chanter I (portions relating do trois.

f.

Volume

III, Chapter X

- Merida Base (1962 - 1965),

consisting of pages

485 through 494.

SECRE

19980

---

## Page 2

SECRET

3. 1 assured Mr. Blakey that I would be happy to discuss

with him any of the deleted items and explain the nature of

the content and the reason for its deletion.

I told Mr. Blakey

that since he was personally reviewing the material, and

the

same would hold true for Mr. Cornwell, I felt that I could be

very candid in describing the deleted portions.

Mr. Blakey

thanked me, but did not at any time raise any questions about

deletions.

After he had finished his reivew I repeated my

offer to discuss any portion of the material. He again thanked

me and said he had no questions.

4. Mr. Blakey did not indicate (nor did I ask) whether

he would continue to seek access to the entire three volume

history in its unsanitized form.

C/LA/MGSB

R

---

