# 104-10068-10115

## Page 1

104-10068-10115

DRIG

UNiT

DATE

in. M. Thetter, ST.

SA-C/WH

1359

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET - 0

в ва

ROUTING

I BOOK CABLE SEE BELOW

DIRECTOR

indu is ??

23z

FROAR

50:r

X

40:

56536667

JIGIN

BEF :

A.

DIR 25583

в.

25555

C.

DIR: 26607

D.

DIR 23406

REPORTING REQUIRKHENTS SET FORTH IN REFS ARE MODIFIED AS

FOLLOWS: HENCEFORTH SACH STATION SHOULD CABLE TO HQS BY 5TH OF

EACH MONTH, KEYED TO LETTERS AS INDICATED, THE FOLLOWING INFO:

A. NUMBER OF TRAVELLERS OF YOUR HOST COUNTRY NATIONALITY

EXONX TO STATION TO HAVE TRATIAO TO CUEN DURING PRECEDING

MUNTH.

B. SAME AS A, BUT FROM CUBA TO HOST COUNTRY.

C. SAME AS A, OTHER NATIONALITIES, BY NATIONALITY.

D. SAME AS B, OTHER NATIONALITIES, BY NATIONALITY.

B. ANY SIGNIFICANT INFO REGARDING

TRAVELLERS, E.G. "15

OF THOSE INCLUDED IN A AND B ATTENDED ARCHITECTS CONFERENCE IV

HAVANA* OR *5 OF THOSE INCLUDEL IN B ARE KNOWN TO HAVE RECEIVED

RELEASING OFFICIA

COOIOINAIINO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHEN

Copy Me.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

D-468

ITING

i. 22

RICEN

?3z

AS

OF

ITY

ІСАТЕМО

CER

Copy No

ORIG

•UNIT

EXT

• DAtE

10

FROM

CONF

INTO

TC

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POUTING

DIRECTOR

DERERSO

PAGE TWO

C:1: 018

GUKRILLA TRAINING."

T. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPHINTS IN THE MATTER OF TRAVEL

CONTROL, EITHER COOD OR BAD, WITH AN INDICATION WHETHER STATION

OR ANY OTHER ODYOKE ELEMENT EXERCISED INFLUENCE IN BRINGING ABOUT

THE DEVELOPIENT.

G. SAMAS! CONCERNING CONTID OF MOVEMENT OF ARMS.

H. SANK AS F CONCERNING CONTROL OF

MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA

MATERIAL

I.

ANY CONMENTS STATION THINKS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR

INCLUSION IN PROGRESS REPORT TO HIGHER AUTHORITY CONCERNING

CUBAN SUBVERSION IN YOUR COUNTRY.

JIND OF MESSAGE

ст ст. ан

C/WH/2

оним

C/WH/5

COORDIMATINO OFPIC

Retted i

santa peterna

wagmetng em

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

me pand A

Copy No.

---

