# 104-10121-10001

## Page 1

104-10121-10001

CLASSIFY WHEN FILLED IN

it .114630

DATE

- REQUES

POR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

¡submit in duplical

one will be returned to requester)

TO

:

*Chre

Employee Activity Branch, PSD/OS

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

Request for Security Approval of Liaison

X on a continuing basis

23 February 1973

#628330

one-time basis

CIA EMPLOYEES

NAME

NAME

NAME

Charles Campbell

NAME

EXT .

OFFICE

2993

EXT.

OFFICE

2993

EXT.

OFFICE

2993

EXT.

OFFICE

RANK

DCS

DCS

DCS

NON- CIA EMPLOYEES

NAME (Last-First-Middle)

Matlack, Dorothe. McS.

TITLE OR SERIAL NO.

A 55660

ORGANIZATION Department of the Army

Office of the Asst. Chief of

BUSINESS ADDRStaff for Intelligence

Operations for Collection

LIAISON

EXT.

OFFICE

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON, COMMENTS, KNOWN BIOGRAPHICAL AND CLEARANCE INFORMATION

Subject will be contacted relative to the foreign materiel program.

TOP SECRET

OFFICE/DIVISION/STAFF

DCS/Services Division

ROOM/BLDG/EXT.

ROOM 812, Key Building

CLEARANCE

DATE GRANTED

BASIS

DATE CERTIFIED

LIAISON

628.330

"ORM

8.671

1230B89oN5.

PREVIOUS

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSED

X SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE

Anna C. Gedmand

ANNE C. REDMAN

Ext

2738

FOR OFFICE OF SECURITY USE

Security approval is granted for contact at the

security classification level indicated. This approval

does not waive any limitations or other requirements for

authorization in connection with disclosure of class-

ified or controlled information which are contained in

Agency regulations or other directives.

Security approval for liaison contact expires three

years from date of issuance or whenever the representa-

tive of the other agency or department ceases to perform

the duties incident to which the security approval was

given, whichever occurs first.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

03

2Mpuck 1973

DATE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFY WHEN FILLED IN

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP

(Encluded fram

3/90

(11)

---

