# 104-10130-10469

## Page 1

104-10130-10469)°

PERSONAL. AND CONFIDENTIAL

Headquarters

20 April 1971

VEMCRANDUM IOR: Special Agent in Charge

Miami Field Office

SUEJECT

:

Wackenhut Corporation

# 493364

1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 2 April 1971

regarding Subject firm and to previous correspondence regarding

the same matter.

2. This is to advise that the restrictions imposed on the

reaffirmed in a cable dated 16 July 1970 to

in regara to a proposed use of Subject by

3. It is recognized that unofficial contacts with employees

of Subject firm at social gatherings are unavoidable, but it is not

believed that such contacts violate the restrictions. In addition,

of course you are acting entirely proper when you are authorized

by Fieadquarters to make contact such as in the recent case in-

volving an inquiry from Pan American Airways.

02 4. In regard to any official contacts by the Chief of Project

VENON with Manuel J. Chavez, Junius I. Mallin, or any other

employee of subject corporation, it is suggested that you point

out to him that the restrictions are still applicable.

5. It is recognized that fubject firm could be an operational

asset to Project VENOM in certain circumstances, however, it is

(ups

---

## Page 2

...

the feeling of this office thai any appeal to amend the restrictions

should be initiated by Project VINCM and the interested Division

if operational requiremente so dictate.. In this regard, it is be-

lieved that this office can accomplish its mission without the

necessity of utilizing Subject corporation.

6. If you have any further questions, please advise.

AATEUE C. SHERIDAN

cc: Files

Wackenhut, George R. #25453047.

Wackenhut Corporation 493364v

Mallin, Junius Jaffe #556658

Chavez, Manuel J. #188233

---

