# 104-10063-10208

## Page 1

110410063110208]

.:l.

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, Far East Division

INFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief,

WOMUSE; Chief of Station

ACTING

Chief of Station

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

MHIPASHA - Anti-American Propaganda Material Circulating in Japan

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES For your intormation.

DIRECTOR 49260

1.

Forwarded herewith is a pamphlet prepared by the Japan

"Peace

for Vietnam" Committee (BEHEIREN) for distribution

to U.S.

servicemen stationed in Japan or visiting Japan.

BEHEIREN activists

are distributing these pamphlets outside major U.S. bases throughout

BEHEIREN had planned to drop copies of this pamphlet over

the USS ENTERPRISE and the U.S. Navy Base at Sasebo during the

ENTERPRISE's visit there this month.

this planned action

tell through due to BEFIREN's Inabilitowevetain the cooperation

of a Japanese newspaper,

MINAMI KYUSHU SHINBUN, in obtaining a

helicopter for the exercise.OZPOFRAGRANCE/1 obtained this pamphlet

from BEHEIREN headquarters in Tokyo on 16 January.

EJTA+53886, which forwarded a locally distributed BEHEIREN

propaganda poster, was not designated/MPASHA but might appropriately

have been so designated.

Also forwarded herewith is a clipping from the JCP's

Sunday edition, 21 January

• (identical article also appeared

In AKARATA daily, 13 January):

This article announced that

GENSUIKYO printed up 10,000 leaflets, copies of an advertisement

placed in the Chicago Daily News, May 1967.

A sample of this

advertisement was sent to CENSUIKYO by Fred Bachiyuruta (phonetic),

Chief of the Philadelphia branch of the

"Veterans for Peace ir

225 0/55 w/Attachs 1,

2 & 3 h/w

1 - C/WOMUSE w/o attachs

1 - cos,

w/o attachs

13-17

Attachment

1.

Phamplet

2.

Clipping

3. USNAVINVSERVO Report

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

(R3TA) 53902.

CLASSIFICATION.

2V047

7148

DATE

JAN 29 1958

HQS FILE NUMBER

Unknown

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DISPATCH

EJTA)- 53902

Vietnam."

AKAHATA announced that GENSUIKYO has already distributed

some of these leaflets near U:S. military installations in Yokosuka,

Sasebo, and Tachikawa, and that these leaflets will also be sent to

Also forwarded, FYI, is a USNAVINVSERVO JAPAN,

Report No.

5 396 0037 68,

dated 15 January

1968, which has' attached a

propaganda

for Peace. „newspaper distributed by

the "Veterans Stars and Stripes

The Paragraph 3 organization, above, is apparently an

affiliate

of this organization.

Mack. h

Mark J. LIDGERWOOI

FORM

8-6a 530

(40)

VpV

CLASSIFICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2

21207

---

