# 104-10216-10154

## Page 1

104-10216-10154

BASIC I MASO

rcades,

-SECREI

is e: Cubela Secades, Rolando Lazaro.

Really (Lazaro Rolando, et)

Note: When Cubelat signed an affidavit requesting a U. S.

immigration visa after escaping to Charleston, S. C., after the

Latest kaour address:

killing of Lt. Col Antonio Blanco Rico, he

signed his full name as:

Lazaro Rolando Cubela

Secades.

DFOB: 19 January 1933, in Elefnegos, Lag Villas Province, Cuba.

Grenfuegos

Relaçlo.s:

Isola es: Spanish, of Cuba.

Fair to good English, though limited

vocabulary and understanding.

Has known a Pan American stewardes:

French descent to seen altere teleaning re-963

visit to France.

Height:

5° 11"°

Welcht: 175 lbs.

Race: Caucasian - fair complexion

Clor hair: Dark, wavy, thinning noticeably on top; hair usually

needs combing.

C-lor eyes: Brown, rather small for his face; very intense. Left

eyelid reportedly droops when Subject is bored and/or fatigued.

resee orang pree ence pet me to wear Jackets

without a tie.

According to

Cubela presents a good

appearance in a masculine way when dressed up.

ARCRE

classilication

Unit 1

8214247799191

---

## Page 2

14-00000

40744

R227/00223373

SECRET

Panil? tack rome. Father is in the tailoring business. Cubela's

parents have

been aivorced for some time.

His Father has recently

(in 1961 or 1962) married a girl many years his junior. Cubela.

does not approve of this marriage.

Mother: Virginia Secades de Cabela. When Cubela is in Havana,

he generally lives with his Mother.

Her last address, as of

February 1963, was given as Calle 38, #122, Esquina (corner of)

venida Zoologico, Alturas de Vedado (known also as Nuevo Vedado,

Havana.

Marital status ard chiidren:

Wife: Mirtha Novoa Delgado de Cubela

Subject is separated from his wife, whon he folt obligated to marry.

It is assumed that she became pregnant prior to this marriage.

they have one child, reportedly a girl, now 1963) about three.

ubela reportedly likes and admireshis wife, and is concerned {0I

her welfare and happiness, although he does not love her in a

husband-wife sense, according to a statement Tepedino made to

in 1962. During the summer meetings in Europe in 1962,

Cubela told

that he could not go back to her if he

wanted to because she had been too outspoken in her dislike for the

Castro regime.

He also mentioned (cont'd on next page):

(Press

article in Diario de la Marina confirmed the marriage in 59).

Pan Amerten stewardess orench descont sed a ratleast

In 1962). Cubela wanted her to go t) Europe while he was there in

i least

Cubela appears to have known her for some time, since

Tepedino reported that the sterardess had made some comment to

Cubela concerning Cubela's political frame of mind in 1961 which

made Cubela (or Tepedino) think that she was working for us in some

way.

told Tepedino that so far as he knew there was no

basis for this statement. Tepedino said he would try to get her

full name for us.

Cubela is also

friendly with a Cuban dancer named Sonia Calero

Sansana.

One report from Army Intelligence on 9 June 1961 called

her Sonia Calero de Cubela (which would make her appear to be

Cubela's wife.

This is an obvious error, view above.

This report added that Sonia was a Cuban Intelligence agent workin

(cont'd next page);

SECRET

Unit 7

---

## Page 3

14-00000

.....

cont'd IrOn — BECRET

•* (clasalfIcatios)

preceding page:

Family background:

Marital statis and children:

cont'd from preceding page -

of her desire to

get out of Cuba.

This comments based on

his return, and

I during the

1962 meetings in Europe. |

Jexpressed the belief that

"we" (possibly he was including Tepedino in his comment) do not

think that Cubela does want to go back to his wife.

There has

also been the comment that some of Cubela's "guilt" feelings come

from the necessity of resolving the probles of this separation.

Note:

since he still likes and admires her, he may be more

cautious while worring against the regime while she, their child,

and his Mother remain in Cuba. Ed note.)

Extra marital activities and/or aberrations: cont'd fron preceding page:

in Havana.

(Another report identified her as the sister of a known

G-& agent, Oscar Calero, who worked at one time in this job out of

Montivideo, Uruguay.)

The Arny Intel report further stated that she

was the mistress of Osmani Cienfuegos,

Cuban Minister of the Interior.

Two addresses for her were given in 1962:

1) Mazo 256, Ayestaran,

Havana and 2) Calle 30,

Esquina (corner of the) Avenida 27.

Sonia is a dancer who made a trip to the USSR with an artistle group 1

In 1961, and another trip to Prague in June 1962. 00-43,252,031 of

26 February 1963 states that she was in the USSR in 1960 and again in

August 1962.

(This means that she could possibly have been in Prague

in the summer of 1962 when Cubela went there. She is a mulatto with

brown eyes, black hair (died red as of 1963), 27, 5'6", 130 lbs. She

is called the choreographer of the Club Parisienne of the Hotel

Nacional, and is also a self-admitted Communist. She is a miliciana

and performs guard duty at the ClQ offices,

and also does volunteer

work.

Cubela is known to have phoned her from Paris to tell her whe

he was returning to Havana in mid-summer 1962, according 8on &

(classification)

SECR

ET

Pron preceding

- page.

---

