# 104-10256-10063

## Page 1

104-10256-10063

SEBRET/SENSITIVE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

:

Intelligence Division

: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

: A.1

Conversation between Mr. William

McDonnell, FBI Liaison Officer and

Mr. F.I.G. Coleman of this Agency

on 29 July 1974.

B. FBI New York Report dated 19 July,

Subject as above.

1. Authorization is granted for your Bureau to pass

a copy of CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974, Subject as

above, to the Department of Justice for its use.

We wish

to make it clear that the former Agency employees mentioned

An Daragraph 2 of that report: rJohn

Patrick MULDOON and

_provided their information voluntarily

with the intent of seeking the advice of this Agency on the

legality of the proposed

venture of the Friends of Abaco

(FOA) .

Both men were advised to avoid contact with the

FOA and to

report their contacts to the Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

2. This Agency has not initiated any further contact

with

the individuals named above or with Walter Joseph MACKEM,

the third former employee approached by the

"FOA...

MACKEM;

however, did himself contact this Agency in an attempt to get

an official policy on the activities of the FOA. He was

CLASSIFIED BY 010116.

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B (2). IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

SECRET/SENSITNE

---

## Page 2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

informed that the case

comes under FBI jurisdiction, that

this Agency has no

official involvement, and that all

information

we had on the matter had been made available

to your Bureau.

advised at that time to report

his contacts

and any information he had to your Bureau.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

/5/ David A. Phillips

David A. Phillips

CIRA-0432-74

SECRET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 3

SECRET/SENSITIVE

DDO/WH/7/CAR/Albert Ramos): Cm:7493/1956 (5 August 74)

Distribution:

03

Orig &

1

- FBI

1

- OPS/LSN

1

- CIOPS/WH

201-259910

C/OS/ SSD/OSB

C/WHD

WH/Security

1

WH/7/CAR Chrono

- 189-9-1

BASED ON:

C/OPS/LSN Memo to C/WHD dated 30 July 1974

Subject:

Mitchell Livingston

WERBELL and

his Employment of Former Agency

Employees

SECRET /SENSITIVE

---

