# 104-10163-10101

## Page 1

104-10163-10101

desa

ROUTING AND NECORD SHEET

INSERUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Dotach back

flap and formard to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

records significant action taken or

comments requiring preservation.

¡FROM:

TO ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shorn aro not

proper, insort proper file no. below

and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPEN FILE NO,

RID/

_TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN BECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

= 1а

IH/4 REGISTRY

TO

1.

WELL REGISTRY

2.

ROOM

NO.

DATE

OFFICER'®

RECEIVED FORMANDED

119187810

15 MAS 1961

3L COPY DETACHED

Ль Жку

par

Most met

detachuo

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

1B.

16.

H/A REGISTA%

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMER

C

RETURN TO CIA

Bacharound Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

ANGERACT

ANDE#

tane 610e

USE PREVIOUA

#04 1400d

PILE NUMBER PAINART COUET

DOCUMENT DATE

I lay 61

SECRET

DOGUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 01569

dals

ajic

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIF LATION

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

MEADQUARTERS FLE NO

M

CASE

Chief of Base, JMWAVE

Transmittal of AMCLATTER- 1 Report

ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCEISI

None - for information and files

RE: "13J" - (CHECK "X ONE

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

Attached herewith is a report from AMCLATTER-l on the

current state of unrest in the MDC.

End of Dispatch

109 03

Use minus curior

AIMLACES ANAN

11.20. 10994.

240 11.29

@sCop 260-2-551659

RECAFT

I raceon

---

## Page 3

MEHORANDUN

Mani, Say 8,196l.

A situation of unrest and dissatisfaction which appeared within the MC

before the Invasion has apparently come to a head.

It originated when four rembers of the six Executives of the F.R.D. united

under the Generational T esis. This provoked a crisis within the FRD and all

of 1t'a components organizations.

It appeared at the time that Rasco would be substituted by the Executive

Cormittee within Cuba. The Nami Comnittee of the MDC backed Rasco. This si-

tuation was solved at the time by a trip here to Mian, taken by lucas, the

Coordinator of the MDC In Cuba, and at the same time, General Coordinator of

the FRD.

In a personal conversation with lucas, he Inforned ne that they were not

satisfied with Rasco, but that he agreed that it was not the time for a subs

titulon within the MC with detriment to this organization, the FRD and the

generel Revolutionary effort. At this time lucas mentioned Fermin Peinado and

Melchor Gaston as possible substitutes.

The non Inclusion of an MDC member in the Revolutionary Council, produced

a further discontent within this organization, not ulthatanding the Inference

of Kiró Cardona of amplifying the Council within Cuba, which Implied that lucas,

the DC Coordinator, would be a member of the Councll.

In the last few daya several maneuvers have taken place within the MDC and

although at first 1t npeared thet Malchor Gaston sould cubstitute Rasco, "

Sow soons that Fernin Poinado han the majority of the voter, within the Execi

tive of the MC. An Exeoutive meeting of the MDC 1a soheduled for today at

five and a General Assembly to-nite at 8 o'olook and a decision ehould be pro-

duosd In the Genoral Assembly.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

It should be noted that this In heing done in the Haml Executive that

had previously backed fasco, vith the apparent consent of the Kovement within

Cuba.

The Jesult Society, which originally created the DC in Cuba, has not

Interfered In this development, but apparently prefera Melchor Gaator to

Fermin Feinado

Raseo has been critized within his organization for appearing in the

newspapers with a "beard"

B

---

