# 104-10177-10056

## Page 1

104-10177-10056

03

1/31

+X1. 5228

AID'INDER

PIGLESTER

49149764

AID'ANALYSIS

R10/201

1H80%819

0HM/ 176A

SURNAME

08.7

0T.$

GT-J

0H.8

CT-B

SPELLING VARTATIONS TO BE CHECKED

ЯКА. ALIASES

719.:9

Tuit

178-5

NAME CHECA ANO COMSOLIDATION REQUEST

CHAtTING

INSTRUCTIOSS

lo priority please

Niket

RETURN TO

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

SUBJECT TO DE ICHESKED

GIVEN INNY

Aleksaper Ivanovich

P'ER IDENTETING TA pocupation, dox, CP aneberahip.

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFRABLE INTORMATIC

CATIZENSIIN

USSR

USSR

DESULTS CE

PID/I"OEY CHECK

COMMENTS

iRISIDENCE

CARtO REFERENCES ATTACHED

100

Tains.

INSTCUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

Not Searched

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index cerd reproductions

traw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Sdit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to Indicate:

(a) carde to 'e destroyed (mark with

green D and notr

reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less Informative than retained

in-

¡orsation; intormation of no CS value.

(a) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding intinity syabol oo

then card in-

cindes sll facts contained in tho

Percode de ick,

• . .:8..

el?"

topsion "

=!..

1570.b.

201 CONSOLIUATION

1.

Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the

consolidation (i.e.,

placed in the

below:

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b) [ Oren 201 file on subject.

CONTIN MISSON STATiONS

Tain

.'.?.

tomation por

Tattoold to 3048

/rV

• 302

---

