# 104-10067-10441

## Page 1

1104-0067-1041

LA

33/431

SECRET

F.RP:

ADV

NOTIFICATION

TO DDO/DO 0434Z

PRECEDENCE

STAFF

ACTION: C/LAMB (

> INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE,

DCI• D/DCI, IG. DDD=4,

CS/RF, C/CI-4,

C/CI/DOFL. C/EPS/COMP, CREPS/EG=2. C/OG/DMS, C/PCS,

C/PCS/PGL.

D/OLCA

78 1022224

PAGE 001

TOR:

2203542 JUL 78

IN 1022224

MEXI

45940

SECRET 2203062 JUL 78 STAFF

U)

CITE MEXICO CITY 45940 (CHAIDEZ ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR

NIACT

#NINTEL RYBAT

REFS: A DIRECTOR 261323#

8 .

STATE 185315 (EXDIS) 21 JUL 78 **

C.

DIRECTOR 229921

AMBASSADOR LUCEY WAS BRIEFED ON CONTENTS REF A EVENING

21 JULY.

THE AMBASSADOR IN TURN TURNED OVER COPY OF AN EXIS

MESSAGE (REF B) WHICH HE RECEIVED 21 JULY INSTRUCTING HIM

TO TRANSMIT LETTER TO ATTORNEY GENERAL OSCAR FLORES SANCHEZ

FROM Go

ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND DIRECTOR OF THE

MSCA, REQUESTING ASSISTANCE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL IN

LOCATING AND INTERVIENING TWELVE PERSONS IN CONNECTION WITH

THEIR INVESTIGATION.

SIX OF THE NINE NAMES CONTAINED PARA 3

REF

A APPEAR ON THE LIST BEING TRANSMITTED TO THE MEXICAN

ATTORNEY GENERAL®

THE LETTER SENT TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL CONTAINS THE

NAMES OF ;

THESE FOUR

PERSONS ARE IDENTIFIED AS FORMER AGENTS IN PARA 3 REF A

THE INVOLVEMEN° OF THE MEXICAN AUTHORTTIES IN LOCATING AND

ARRANGING FOR THE INTERVIEN OF THESE FOUR AGENTS WILL

PRECLUDE ANY SECURE ARRANGEMENTS FROM BEING FOLLOWED DURING

THE INTERVIEN WITH THE MSCA INVESTIGATORS AND APPEARS TO

SECRET

6672

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 1022224

PAGE 002

TOR: 2203547 JUL 78

IN 1022224

MEXI 45940

VIOLATE REF A AGREEMENT (SUPPORTED BY HIGHEST AUTHORITY)

WHEREBY.

THERE WOULD ONLY BE GRANTED INDIRECT ACCESS

TO THE

PERSONS

BEING INTERVIEWED.

AFTER PROCEDURES OUTLINED REF A FOR INDIRECT TECHNICAL

ACCESS TO THE FORMER AGENTS WAS EXPLAINED TO THE AMBASSADOR.

HE EXPRESSED CONCERN ABOUT THE SECURITY IMPLICATIONS INHERENT

WITH THE USE OF COMMERCIAL FACILITIES AND THE MANNER PROPOSED

TO CONDUCT THE INTERVIEWS.

AT TIME OF HIS DISCUSSIONA

NEITHER THE AMBASSADOR NOR STATION AWARE THAT NAMES

AGENTS HAD BEEN TRANSMITTED TO THE MEXICAN ATTORNEY

GENERAL.

QUESTION NOW ARISES WHETHER REF A INDIRECT INTERVIEW

PROCEDURES SHOULD BE FOLLOWED WITH REMAINING NAMES INCLUDED

PARA 3 REF A. PLS ADVISE.

4. STATUS OF NAMES APPEARING PARA 3 REF A ARE AS FOLLOWS:

IN ADDITION TO THE NAMES OF THE FOUR FORMER AGENTS

GIVEN PARA 2 ABOVE, THE LETTER TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ALSO

INCLUDES THE NAMES

OF GENERAL JOSE JESUS CLARK FLORES AND

NOE W. PALOMARES.

INVOLVEMENT OF THE MEXICAN AUTHORITIES WILL.

OF COURSE, PRECLUDE ANY STATION ACTION TO CONTACT AND

ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEW.

B. LICOOKY/1•

PER REF CA HER LAST KNOWN ADDRESS WAS

- NEW YORK CITY•

REQUEST HOS CHECK THIS ADDRESS FOR ANY

INFO ON HER PRESENT WHEREABOUTS AND ADVISE•

ALSO, PLS ADVISE

NAME OF LAST AGENCY C/O IN CONTACT WITH SUBJECT WHICH WE CAN USE

AS BONA-FIDES IN EVENT STATION SUCCESSFUL IN LOCATING HER IN

MEXICO CITY. DID LICOOKY/1

KNOW HER C/O'S IN TRUE NAME OR

RAYMOND H. GERENDE.

SUBJECT PROBABLY AVAILABLE

MEXICO CITY AS HE WALKED INTO THE EMBASSY ON 25 APR 78 OFFERING

HIS SERVICES.

HOS TRACES ON SUBJECT GIVEN DIRECTOR 215553.

PLS NOTE THAT SUBJECT HAS MAD DRINKING AND FINANCIAL

PROBLEMS

IN THE PAST.

HIS MEXICO CITY ADDRESS GIVEN AS TACUBAYA,

NEAR THE SOVIET EMBASSY,

LIONION/1•

TATION FAMES INDICATE HE TERMINATE

1 JULY 1973 WHEN THE KDACROBAT BASE CLOSED. ON TERMINATION

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 1022224

TOR:

PAGE 003

220354Z JUL 78

IN 1022224

MEXI

45940

SUBJECT AND MOTHER MOVED PERMANENTLY TO SPAIN..

WILL ATTEMPT

LOCATE MEXICO CITY BUT

ALSO SUGGEST HOS QUERY

FOR ANY INFO HIS WHEREABOUTS IN SPAIN.

EDWARD G. TICHBORN

(P). SUBJECT'S FILE NO LONGER

AVAILABLE AT STATION.

LAST CARDED INFO. DATED 1968 WHICH

DOES NOT PROVIDE ANY ADDRESS. WILL CHECK FURTHER AND ADVISE.

THUS FAR, STATION NOT SUCCESSFUL IN LOCATING

ACCOMMODATIONS REQUESTED REF A.

HOTELS GENEVE AND BRISTOL

ARE FULL, HOTEL MARIA ISABEL HAS ONLY ONE JUNIOR SUITE

AVAILABLE AND NO ADJOINING ROOMS.

ALSO, ONLY TWO ADJOINING

ROOMS AVAILABLE ON ANY GIVEN FLOOR.

RESERVATIONS COUNTER

AT HOTERLS DEL PRADO, ARISTO, CONTINENTAL ARE CLOSED. WILL

TRY AGAIN AS SOON AS

RESERVATIONS AT HOTELS OPEN SATURDAY

MORNING,

PLS ADVISE CAPT. GOODING THAT

HE HAS CONFIRMED RESERVATIONS AT THE DEL ANGEL, RIO

THESE MAY BE ADJUSTED DEPENDING ON

LOCATING REF A ACCOMMODATIONS.

CASE OFFICER WITH DIP

PASSPORT WILL BE PROVIDED PER

PARA 2 REF A.

6• NO. FILE. EZ. IMPDET•

C/S COMMENT: * INFORMED STATION HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS ARRIVING MEXICO CITY 24 JULY

TO CONTINUE INQUIRIES. OIG STAFFER 10 SERVE

AS GO-BETWEEN (SUPPORTED BY HIGHEST AUTHORITY)

• WITH COMMITTEE HAVING NO DIRECT ACCESS TO FORMER

AGENTS.

** DEPTEL NOT RECEIVED HEADQUARTERS. REF C PREDATES

CDS STORAGE -COPY FURNISHED ON REQUEST®

END

OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

---

