# 104-10173-10078

## Page 1

104-10173-10078

SECRET

17 Juse 1953

CONTACT REPORTI VASLOUCUZ, DI UNALDO, ANd DORRHOSE

Da Tai

PLACE

19 & 20 May 1989

Bande Hotel

Meal Beach, Florida

1. DOUROSE and DI UNALDO sETire by rand al cho Banda

Rosal at approuinasely 1930 bours and la tha lobby passed the

Suôjoes, her ervellag cospantos, Nes. DI SILYA (eechos ol

Brasillan charge GAMBOS) BAd MI. & MUM, BuSE PLASTIRES (800

Consact Repost dated 3 May 1953) ules moe shay had spent the

nich the donk clerk, VAiLOUC? made a poins of anklag for her

keig ahleh indiented bar roon mader and the case officers vare

pherefore ablo lo gol soons on she 11oos juge balou here.

(BOT38. Our Dentacto wiEN VASLOUCH/? vare depondoat upon tbe

anount of sins she could apend any tren her unleilag traveling

cospanton.) As previouoly arranged, DI UBALDO vent to che

Subject's hacal soo at 0700 hours she nast soralag and broughe

Bos to bla roos shoto tha dobriaflag tood placo. An the outa

pot DORINOSa nao introduced an Hillian Clina and de me explatned

SHAS DI ¡NALDO A SONIAS out Of the operasion. Thle ingrial

sacting talen lasted until 0900 houra sus confinod palmartly to

ETO BEDLEBI En, VASLOLAH/l's centase ulea and eultivation oi

Prenalseo sauchzz sha de tharged ulch sens read building projects

SECRET.

Encodad tran artena

39322523

1701-2854121

---

## Page 2

1d-0n0d

SECHET

In Oriento Provineo and sho lo a closo assoctate of Dr. Repa

VALLEJO, e sey advicos to CAsTrO and to, the rodent soctal

cultivation of the vAsloucHrs by an officer of the soules Babesty.

ma laste devolopad on cha recond aubfoet are as follouai| For

aeveral feare VASLOUCh/2 had boas contierod se the frasillas

Badassy by Valengine 3. LOGUINOV, an attache at sha soulde

Fabsosy. These contecta sool place overy tia os threa months

then LOGUINOV would brlas vlas requoara finon his Sabaasy.

The

Bast ol choas budinose consacts vas in robriary of shie yeur.

On 37 April, Chile VASLOUCA/2 Was in MeNSCO CIEY, LOGUIROY

phoned the Branslion Abassy noking for VASLOUCH/2 and hen

indorad that sha ses sor 1o, roquiored hor bons phone nantes

(sal1oted) Iron the girl insuring the phose, lilde SOLIVAs

(848l filead Of MANTIL). The glel refused to give out tha

midor. Be 1000 on 1 May, LOGUINOV apparently having segulized

the suber fren the aarular list, called VASLOUCH/? at has

home enly to be cold that vAsLouch/? vas wirking that soreing

at the Brasillen Babesay, He Sinally got VASLOU1/2 on the

selephono de 1600 houre and seated that the date ves an

esporiani holsday los hua and that ho vishad to viase the

VAsLoUches ulth he lantly to bring a mill pradear 803 VABLOICH?.

IDGUINOV and fasily arriood aE VASLONII/2'O hous dE 1800 houre

nad seayed mill 3100 houra.

The prove: mas a botele of her

SECRET,

40PT

CEciled true dango.

Conta: since t

---

## Page 3

SECFET

Moseo parfuro. The evening was conlined to onall calk.. O

3 May, LOCUINOY agala called and made a diner date ilth

pasiouch/2 and bor haoband for 10 May, locurroy and wile pleted

up the vASLOUchEs lo Ebelr private eas and the evenlas (2130 -

0030) vas spent as the Capri rostaurant. Because of the notee

frun the floor abor, agaln little of note maa dlaoussed. The .

cose of the moal vas approadaataly 910. At the restaurent,

LOGUIDOV LAViZEd EDA VABLOUES tO aEtEnd @ RocapElon aNd shortag

ol Che soules passenger plana, 7u-11a, do ba hald ae 12:50 c

14 May. VASLOULW/2 did nos estand because sha gas leaving los

Manh, When VASLOUCHl solephonss VASLOUCH/? sa Moal on 1y May.

Do conesoned, la beinan, that Valetina had agale dropped by.

Fres theme cintacte with Locury the following sud boan

observod by VAsLouci/2. le ta approainstoly: 32 yeare old,

spanke fluent spanteh nih juar a alight seceas and a 116elo

Englloh. Ho has been ln Cuba three years nod vas fluene 1o.

spentch men he araired. No la approliately 6 seat call, walghs

about 183 1b8, derragly bulle, has blie ojoo; blond tory bals,

concavo forehand, good forth, and Armanen snil ath eone and

mosttle. Ta drives hiasol! lia an Asleen car (Dodgal) wieh

mennilploratie places. la moles and drinto la moderacion.

He

has a chros and onestall yess old so, sa aldven year old

daugheer and alé parento end blo wiin's pareats are living la

MOSCOW, ULa ULIe'S naMa 19 Alenastil, sha la astraceivo and

Berto la the ensular office. Her Junital 18 poos. la vas

mare that VASLOUCH,? had vialsed Moanin restly and also Mae

Shat Cho VABLOIKES daugatos sas vich. the Branillas Babaasy la

SECRET

19Jlcaias e3t

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Mosco, Aldo chae VASLOUCH/l had secently bogn back to

One ehlag that arayod la V/290 mlad vas chee ln converanzion

wth LOGUINOV he rotarred on threa cecalione so che ponalbilley

chet thoir daughtor nighe vory moll marry a Ruasles, a poine

chet aight relate to any operational approschi LoGUINOY may

mata to che VASLOUCHES. V/2 arated thae LOGUINOY was the only

one chat had ever cono po the Iranillan Babeasy rogarding visao.

sho also arated.

thoc over sua past veora sho hso called hla

ofl1od lour or ilvo Eleos ragarding ulonn and tan noves besia

able to roach his. 1/? also rocalled that during thair outing

al the Capil RestauraRE LOCUINOY Stated the ho Ma planias to

mar a soach house and was looking lomard sa cha VASLOUCHRS

spending sind vich hia and his alle thome during the dumor

mentho: M/1 latulred ag to che vercaboute of che forer

PalUDi corraipondent, Borovaly, and maa cold ho vis in spaçoo.

_Ambassados In Haobington has boda kepe

Maloinod en LOGUIrDY e advaneas toward the SLoucHes.. Hie only

sonne as thla poine sus shur "shay iro sfrar sonaching. 1/2

rolaclonahlo in hopos of seguiring son polleical inforiation

ITO LOCUINOY. ThO ARbadsador AlDO LATALIANI ENARLANIAS.

da Mianl chat ho had reguaoced dar tho SLOUCHES Inscallatien

ba elevatad and siren diploralie: status. Ho espresael esprise

chat aloppy of his leiser to siu Cuban Forodg. Mialorry had nos

SECRET

Ersiaded tirey scismatit

Cerci: = 138

---

## Page 5

SECRET

been recalved by V/l and preadiod a speedal dolluory copy of

IE Ro V/2 In Maal, Relating tO Ello, V12 ORaREd EO EDO C/C

ChaR 10 ONe Of V/l'S SeOLlAge MIth CORONA Of ELe POrelLa 088Ic0.

COsOMA stated that he was requestlas

to rele the

atatue of 1t0 reprosentacion la lavana and to pose a eharge

thoro.. V/2 was sold by the C/O that after checking with

Hoadquarters concerning locuitovis background, epecifie guildarea

on bos to handle the salationahip sould be lorchsoning.

3. Tron: SANCHEZ, /l allelted road bullding inforaation

which he had pur on an everlay shich mad passed by V/2 (sene

Co SAS ROpOrÉs), SANCHEZ bad Invized V/i 2ó Orienta Province

W1ch bla da sha ness luturo to see some ol hia projecto.

Raluesently no lätructed 1/2 to 8ell V/l 80 turn don eba

tuitation on grounde ol til health but to leave the way open

dor a

alullar deoltaston in tha future. It sao chaughe that

ChIS MA DOSE NIELl NO COUld MasOse LotEltovie InterasE du the

VASLOUCHES. VI? aloo passed the May sands Vil bad assignod so

so principalconcueto and a dlagra of the Brasilian Subassy

Ineluding nonsursmnts of tha out building which DI UBALDO had

Alecuasod min V/? ln Menico Cliy relattag ro sta poasiblo use

an a dead drop.. A pasphlos epistlos, Llas a Exseria and

(SERE tO SAS/RAPOTES.) " 840t of liarl padded shared numbera

and some other dara on those passingor nich had daparted

Cuba In too Cubana 811 gill to Brustl lis the purpose of piezing

up the Cuban sporte 8001 la Br0a11 (une en 915/R3).

SECRET L

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Bi On 19 MAY DI URALDO TARUMEN SO WASTINGTON, DORENOSE

not vich V/t on. 20 May, fras 0700 - 0900 hours. At chlo meeting,

y/2 vas given she seyiy acerile phone number and sold thie all

futuro contacs chould do nade co Cllne velig this number. she

mis aleo giron our intelal assonasont of the algolficanco of

LOGUINOV's approach (the tracos froa leadquarters had still not

been recalred). In our opluba there vase three posalbilities

and too óf shes pera ullialy. Plet, Locursovie approsen

could ba an insoesar one and be merely for the purposo of

escablleltng a essendahip, an extendlon of eula thoughe sould

ba che posalbility of tis interestild la defecting Givea the

ase difference in ibe to couples and soighing osher factore,.

chila mus conaldored uniltolz. Ma second possibility da 83a5

tha sondota have Deca alerted, posoldly by V/l'0 open code

sable to

to cha SLoUclis posalble linvolument wisis

the Americans.

Tis also le unllkaly for had this bean the esse

the last thiag the soviors sould viah to de vould be to alert

the SLOUCHES Ro the LaiR that they menu ander suspielon and

back

therefora brigg abour & qut An chair mucinithe.

(CONKIN's

LoGUInoves sudden and sadely incandia malelvation effort hee

had just tase alfoet.)' The third arl mine lakely posalballey:

Lo thas tha soutata are cultivating llil lor und as a penetrasion

08 the Brasdidan Aabansy. V/2 asceplint lie gase officer®a

6

SECRET

GAN 3

Excreed teen automatie

---

## Page 7

SECRET

aacissane as valld and do seoplag with her on enaughca..

she

ms told that finel guidance on thie sateer would be siven her

at a subsequent boating to be held ln the afternoon alter

DORIOSE had recolved the Hendquartara traces. The discussion

chen mont to the communications.

6o When the subject sested ther hor husband vas unable

so bring out althes the pado er hia lastrusions on bor to usa

the pade mich had been given hin in No Yor, is me decided

3/l lantruestono on the una of the iT? woula ba paoned by

BARKER La Merleo Cley. She was told shat BARRER venla ba in

the lobby of tha Hillen los la Marion ClEy, At 0730 on 23 May.

When they have recogalied ouch other abe should follow hia fron

Ene loteL, Il BARKER lo viblo to maka cho aoncont ho do: to

colaphone her later la sto day ming. too nna 18TO, Subjee: 10

Bol that va vero unablo to eras up. as yat, wen an entended

enlocarphens out stilch one lad sequested, bur chia vould be:

evailable les the nart centear later in the dumor.

%... Toard the and of tha mooting, subjoct passed erao.

lactone she hod sade of noton glin her by 1/1 whthh ho ballered.

SO DO Ol IncallIgenca Laterest, (They aro inaluded as detachrone

with her bus ohe was pursuaded

du Case eras

Languago

Motoa and sha carben copy ol Y/s'1 latter to die embassador

la sranolation of shieh le Arcaelinent B). Mo C/O requasted

the sane of a person lal

vite moald bave roasea to exite

so 9/1 bus sto l0 not doing to 1i:

SECRET

tonint2r.gg

tomassication

---

## Page 8

td-s0non

SECRET

the nase of V/l'a aunt, _

She wan told that some

of the neonlag slil in the future sould to tiltten tal

malled In

and estenilbly.coma froa Chlo porson.

Subjoce stated that sha rould depart Miral by Guest Alrlines

on 22 May 1983. The maaling us condueted hurrtedly and

Deceasertly did concduded as 0900 horia, Plans mere sade 10s.

tho Subjoet to return for a brled contadE with DORkNoSa botaoon

1430 apd 1600 Douse after findlag sone excusa to get away from

har cospantor.

8i Subject sun unable to breat away seca her copanion

In tina to ake the sshoduled mating and then and colophoned

to sO COLLIy DORENOSE abe vas artonooualy talonged by the hotel.

dast that DORKHOSE bud cheared 016. After some difficultys:

panoss tas able so canteer bes and a briel seating tea hold

«e 2100 hours. le sea at thie macing that tastructions vero

gloan 1/2 so tighten up on thats ascirlty alting the dengars

of audlo auralllance and the necesalty lor great sara then

matlag the losters out. fos her bourse, AURARY securIty la

dealtag ilth her eise van asphusleed, She na also lustruered

to soset vith disbolios isablood utth listignation 18 a recruit-

mant piech ms mide to ellibes of thes.. Sue ma also urged not

so liocarage farches socill contact ulas the Locursay a in

hes daughtor ahould do annuraged so lana lossor 18 tho

8

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Sraniliar abacardo se cronoloried in late fell. Il Chia does.

not cong. off, when V/2 01o1co her daughier in the fall sha should

artespi, under sone proceit, fo have har daughter leava Ruasli.

the Inpression

me care offleer vas coraful not to alora V? and to conver/chas

her daughter 'o progent plighe had no telstion to her Loteliigance

Lolae rich Opos. On she contrary, pho vas vary fortunato

so have is to adulso has on hou best lo deal with les probles.

1/8 uns eonnerned about her daughter bocata har daughter had

nos soclally ulch os CUACID offsar in hoseod nomed Richard

Jocobe ino hse almaa been pag'd by the sovleto.

when ashed

about ochor cousaato of has daughter!a in Moscou she acared

that har daugheer uno la love vich ona of the luR labasay

aesretartes ubo bad lets Moscon and sua presently assignod in

Foisyo, Sha mentioned shas anothes tal secratasy aratined in

Moseos naned SALAi and tho Consular, Asta Hausa vera acqualazaneas.

Also 8 BesTelay ol cha Menican Dobaisy noned Assando CANTU..

Sho meniloned that dolog hos seneduled fall statt to veo her

¿aughter she bad pronload so Bato bor daugheor do toligo to

11ad8 her boy fricado Pato ano compliented homovar decariso riso

sould lafurlate i/1 io is stroigly agalase sha daughter sarrying

à Boalan. Subject das giveu 830, 3o 08f-sor taxl dares, cha

coss of eu ansenne, and for gond ulll.. The neoling vas eon-

SiNded as 21nY MOn HEs, DI SILVA tas senodulod tO gol 01t

of tha bathrao. To othas nanos el possiblo interest vara

SECRET

Excite:

4•0NG, 81

---

## Page 10

dior

---

## Page 11

SECRET

rataed by V/2 dustry the contact. Atla MOHRARALA, @ Finalah

sonale arudent in fays and a reble Cosmitor and John BITTI.

an SAglIaN DESOnAl DeE by V/A LA MaTICO CLEY. RETTI, a vicer

der the semanlaco and an espleyee of tha BIc uns onco mercled

to a Purs. RITTI mia bolig asalgned in Havans. ilo nddrode

la Naxtoo 615y! P.O. 1642 Marleo ClEy lo Menleo.: Selophons

Eb05, 14-52-89.

1.9

SECRET

100-90399185 A24

1e20a.1.19109

---

## Page 12

inducerere

SEGRET

Spurce: Planes inquerns Flyero (aubanures not Indirared),

spare parts from inland are done to Monterey (roglers, then en

Pucatan and after phae so Isled Maleras and from there the Cuban

fisherman cirke them en phie isle nd Pines.

2..

Soirice: Francisco Sanchez,. Ciron road. eonstruceton

engineer - in dieruasing rrocurement dol replacement parts for his

equipmant senter! 1f the inergeons have a substalary factorv, for

example Catapillar, wich a factory in. Europe, the spore parte are

sent to Fast Germany in from there to Cuba.

3.

Source: Blanca - The leadquarters of the Russlane 1a

in ai cunnel at 36ch Sterot, No, 62 on tho corner of Street 39.".

To has eon entrances, one from the fiver and the ather from the

house of M. J. OlA%.

4 Source:

de l0a Paños:

Blance - There la a Tluchini 29 In San inconlo

5.

Source::

Blanca - A former National Assembly (he "ste:

or Cuban enulvalene) member,

May adrago, deated that the refugee

ship that vent to Ploria on 2a Pepilcarried lin goverment spenta,

Jose flas (el cojo) and healte Yolanda Clanerno, whose address

1a No. 7414 Avenue 15.

Go Orlando Puènto, the private secretary, of former president

Prlo, approached casmous mother in Mänt on loMay itating that

before she departed the country he would give her the name. oa

cuban assetato of falo sho de ln much trouble and wants asylim.

In the Brazilian ErbASAy:

7. Source: VASiOlCHAl - on a May Eduardo Corone, Chief i

che Occidentál Furopean Chunerleg Office stated to slarcH/l that he

planned in the rear future in give a luncheon for the forthern

European diplomats

al that luncheon lie wnuld purnose that che

Northern countrtes

put on an expostrion in Cuha covering each countries?

cultural and economte achleverents,

SECRET

Exclarea hug arabaatic

4019 1 172 234

27A049:081

8136908

---

