# 104-10110-10581

## Page 1

104-10110-10581 •

DUTGOING MESSAGE

SIONAL CENTER USE ONLY

7OG

AGE

OMF

0

CHABAHPICATIEN

SECRET

AH$SAOE MANOLNES MENEATEN

- STAFF

COME: CLA 8 INFO:

De

D

26-5

0521042

DIRECTOR

DA DULA DDOL

Fatt

BAGE!

030127

DISSEM BY: -'

1o2!.

IMMEDIATE

1188G?

WRINTEL RYBAT Y

816-17

>117

c/1P/oms

REFS: A.

32527 IN 264039

B.

DIRECTOR 028235

C.

33008 |IN 2731351 4

I FOLLOWING PARAGRAPHS WERE BEING TYPED WHEN ADVANCE COPY OF

REF C RECEIVED.. QUOTED ISSUERE OF "NEU TIMES" IS ON THE STREET.

PORTIONS OF STORY MENTIONED IN REF C ARE ACCURATE EXCERPTS. Y

2. I3 MAY EDITION OF MAGAZINE "NEW TIMES" CARRIES STORY "EXCLU-

SIVE: JAILHOUSE INTERVIEW WITH CUBAN TERRORIST ORLANDO BOSCH BY

BLAKE FLEETWOOD. STORY CONCERNS FLEETWOOD'S OPENLY AND EASILY ENTER-

ING THE PRISON AND HIS INTERVIEW WITH BOSCH IN WHICH BOSCH COMMENTS

ON HIS REVOLUTIONARY BACKGROUND, INVOLVEMENT IN CUBAN EXILE GROUPS

AND ACTIVITIES AND HIS INTENTIONS TO CONTINUE THESE ACTIVITIES IN THE

FUTURE• THERE IS NO MENTION OF FLEETWOOD HAVING BEEN IN CONTACT WITH

U.S. OR CUBAN EMBASSIES IN CARACAS, NOR THAT HE PERSONALLY HAD ANY

PROBLEMS WITH VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES DURING HIS TRIP TO OBTAIN THE

INTERVIEW.

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EAT:

CLASSHHATACHN

SECRET

AUTNENTICATID OUCHE

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 007255

---

## Page 2

• OUTGOING MESSAGE

BIONAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACA

TOg

AGE .

OMF 0 D D

CLANSIRICATIDN

SECRET.

MESSAGE NAPOLITO MUNCATOR

STAFF

DATE TIME CHOLE

-

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

PAGe

C198

DIRECTOR

03027

WITH TH

DISSEM BY:

PER

• 3• DURING INTERVIEW BOSCH CLAIMS HE WAS ARRESTED IN VENEZUELA

IN NOVEMBER 1974, HAVING ENTERED FROM THE DOMREP IN JUNE 1974, BY

DISIP AND MADE HIS FIRST FORMAL AGREEMENT WITH GOV AT THAT TIME. SAYS

HE DEALT WITH RIVAS VASQUEZ AND ORLANDO GARCIA AND SAID "I PROMISED

NO MORE ACTIONS AGAINST CASTRO'S FRIENDS WOULD BE TAKEN IN CARACAS,

ANO THEY PROMISED ME IN THE MANE DE CARLOS ANDES PEREAS NO HIS

OFFICIAL OF THE CUBAN REGIME WOULD BE ALLOWED IN VENEZUELA®* IN

FALL OF 1976, BOSCH CLAIMS, ORLANDO GARCIA INVITED HIM TO VENEZUELA

IN THE NAME OF CAP TO MAKE A DEAL. SAYS HE WAS MET AT AIRPORT BY

ORLANDO GARCIA AND RICARDO MORALES WITH WHOM HE MADE A DEAL• BOSCH

AGREED THERE WOULD BE NO ACTIONS IN VENEZUELA, COSTA RICA AND THE

DOMREP, IN EXCHANGE FOR WHICH HE WOULD BE PERMITTED TO LIVE IN VENE-

ZUELA UNDER AN ASSUMED NAME AND ORGANIZE OTHER TERRORISTS' ACTIONS

ELSEWHERE • UNTIL TIME OF THE LETELIER ASSASSINATION AND THE CUBANA

BOMBING, BOSCH SAID, "THE PACT SWITH VENEZUELAJ WAS GOING PERFECTLY

WELL. IN FACT, I WAS SUPPOSED TO MEET WITH PRESIDENT PEREZ ON

OCTOBER 10, BUT THEN THE PLANE BLEW UP ON THE.GTH AND ALL THE TROUBLE

STARTED-" BOSCH CELAIMED AFTER PLANE INCIDENT HE CONTINUED TO HAVE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIt:

EXT:

COOROMATIG OFFICENT

CLANAIFCATICH

SECRET

AUTIINTICATIG OUNCER

E2

IMPDET

CL BY: 007255

---

## Page 3

14-00009

• OUTGOING MESSAGE

FIGNAL CENTEN USE ONIT

Àe &

coi

TOB

OMF D

CLASHFAT,

SECRET

ASSBARE HANDUNG NDCATOR

STAFF

D

D

0

D

3

DATA-THE GHOW

DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO: FILE

030127

BREEDS

DUO MEDEN

DISSEM BY:

PER

CONVERSATIONS WITH ORLANDO GARCIA WHO TOLD BOSCH THAT NOTHING UNTOWARD

WOULD HAPPEN, "UNTIL, ONE DAY GARCIA CALLED TO SAY THAT THE PRESIDENT

WANTED BOSCH TO STAY AT POLICE HEADQUARTERS." BOSCH CONTINUED THAT

HE HAS BEEN UNDER "PROTECTIVE CUSTODY" FOR SEVEN MONTHS AND PEREZ

HAS SAID ON TELEVISION THAT BOSCH WAS A MEMBER OF CIA AND TRYING TO •

DESTABILIZE HIS GOVERNMENT. BOSCH CLAIMS THAT GARCIA TOLD HIM THAT

HE WOULD BE RELEASED AS SOON AS THE PUBLICITY BLOWS OVER. BOSCH

SPOKE WITH EXTREME BITTERNESS ABOUT "THE BETRAYAL OF THE CUBAN PEOPLE®

BY THE VENEZUELANS WHO HAD SO RECENTLY BEFRIENDED HIM, AND IS EVEN.

WILLING TO ENTERTAIN CHARGES THAT VENEZUELA SET HIM UP FROM THE DAY

HE WAS INVITED TO LIVE THERE• BOSCH CONTINUES THAT HE HAS DECIDED TO

RESUME THE OFFENSIVE, AND HE CANNOT KEEP QUIET ANYMORE. WE'RE

PUSHED UP AGAINST THE WALL BY (PRESIDENTS PERMEZ. WE'RE GOING TO

ACCUSE HIM OF BETRAYING US. A TRAITOR TO DEMOCRACY. A TRAITOR TO THE

CUBANS• AND A TRAITOR TO THE AMERICAN CAUSE. I AM GOING TO DECLARE

WAR ON THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT IN THE NAME OF THE CUBAN CAUSE: I

DON'T CARE THAT I AM SITTING IN JAIL. PEREZ IS A TRAITOR. HE WAS

MAKING A PACT. WITH CASTRO AT THE SAME TIME HE WAS MAKING A PACT WITH

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

PELHAMNG OFFICER

SNSBEFHATIN

SECRET

COOHDIATENG ONIICHAE

ALTIIUNTICATINA OFFICIN

E?.

IMPDET

CL BY:

007255

---

## Page 4

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

BONAL CENTERUSIORLS

cai

ACA

OMF

COlASICATION

SECRET

MESSAGR FANDUNO MDICATOI

STAFF

CONF:

D

PAGE

4

DITH-THIS OUCHA

INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

83027

DISSEM BY:

NO MOE:

PER

US.. IF THEY WANT TO PUT ME ON TRIAL, THEY WILL ALSO HAVE TO ACCUSE

THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR, THE DISIP DIRECTOR AND THE PRESIDENT.

THESE PEOPLE CONSPIRED WITH ME. THEY SHOULD BE PUT IN JAIL AS WELL Y

4. HEEREGARDING LETELIER INVESTIGATION ARTICLE CLAIMS BOSCH

DENIED KNOWING ANYTHING ABOUT ASSASSINATION. ARTICLE CONTINUES WITH

CLAIM "CONFIDENTIAL INTELLIGENCE' REPORT OBTAINED BY "NEW TIMES" CLAIMS

BOSCH WAS NOT SO RETICENT ABOUT LETELIER CASE WHEN QUESTIONED BY

VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES SHORTLY AFTER HIS ARREST.* ARTICLE CLAIMS

BOSCH FINGERED NOVO BROTHERS TO DISIP• LATER IN ARTICLE PARENTHETICAL .

STATEMENT IS MADE "CONTRARY TO REPORTS IN AMERICAN PAPERS, NO U.S.

OFFICIAL HAS BEEN ALLOWED BY VENEZUELAN GOVT TO SEE BOSCH." Y

5. HQS AIRMAILING COPY VIA APO 5 MAY AND WILL POUCH COPY ALSO.

BASED ON ABOVE PORTIONS WHICH WE CONSIDER MOST IBFLAMATORY RE VENEZUE-

LA, PLEASE CABLE YOUR AND AMBASSADOR'S COMMENTS REGARDING POSSIBLE

VENEZUELAN REACTIONS TO ARTICLE WITH PARTICULAR EMPHASIS YOUR ESTIMATE

HOW THIS MIGHT OR MIGHT NOT AFFECT

OPS. IN MEANTIME, WE

KEEPING IN CLOSE TOUCH WITH STATE HERE: WE WILL TAKE INITIATIVE TO

ASSURE STATIONS IN OTHER LAD COUNTRIES MENTIONED IN ARTICLE ARE KEPT

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:.

ExT:

COOMDIMATING EH

LNISFICATION

SECRET

AUTHNONICATNO OFFICER

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 007255

---

## Page 5

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

601

AE$

TOB

TRE

1170 .

OMF O. D

CLASBHICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE NANALTS MECATON

_ STAFF

D

DATA -TIME SHOWE

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DEI

PAGA

PAGES

EITE

DIRECTOR

030127

0

D

D

MEBANOR REFERENCE AUBER

ENDER

DEO INDEE

DISSEM BY:

HIT LUTE TO

PER

ADVISED OF PARTS OF ARTICLE WHICH DEAL WITH THEIR COUNTRIES.

b. NO FILE. EZ IMPDETON

COMMENT: REF A REQUESTED FULL DETAILS OF FLEETWOOD ARTICLE BE CABLED

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. REF B ADVISED ARTICLE DID NOT APPEAR IN 29 APRIL

EDITION OF "NEW TIME" AS EXPECTED, BUT WOULD BE WATCHED FOR IN FUTURE

EDITIONS• REF C REPORTED ARTICLE PICKED UP BY UPI FROM I3 MAY

ISSUE AND SUMMARIZED IN CARACAS TABLOID. FULL TEXT REQUESTED•

ORIG: C/LA/PNC/VEANDREUST; COORD: C/LA/OPSEDISTEFANOF; AUTH: C/LA/PNE

{DESMONDE: REL: C/LA/WARRENZ•"

DATE: ROBERT ANDREWS: PM

UNIT:

C/LA/PNE/V

EXT:

x2,715

silar arra

HELLABING OFFICER

CLASATICATION

SECRET

C/LAYOPS

COORDInATING OFfICERS

C/ LA/PNC

E 2

CL BY:

IMPDET

007255

---

