# 104-10186-10286

## Page 1

104-10186-10286

INFORMATION REPORTS

INEORMA REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS C1-316/00580-64

suater Alíredo GARCIA Almelra

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

27 July 1964

ANTORN 7O CIA

Background Use Only

Do ila Reproduva

REFERENCES

DATE OF

1964

INFO

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. July 1954

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS AME DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1.

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Nfredo GARCIA Almeira, pseudonym "Aranji, " resides on Calle

20, Number T16 entre Septima y Novend, Mirarmar, Habana, Cuba.

GARCLA was in Venezueld when it broke relations with Cuba. He

wis later involved in in attempted recovery of documents from a

plane crash in Peru, which led to his expulsion from Chile. He

is now the Venezuelan desk officer in the Dopartamento Liberacion

Nacional (LN - National Liberation Department) of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of Intelligence).

operations the most successful

тор 19

5

2

Headquarters Comments

1. As an attachment to a document dated 10 May 1961 there was a

letter from One Lisandro GALVEZ, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,

to Alfredo GARCIA Almeida, Mayor 111, entre Central y

Suarez, Lujano, Habana, Cuba, and dated 4 May 1961.

Included in the letter was a check for $365. 43 for GARCIA

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ARALY

INALY

TAle

NSA

I oca

REP CACLANT

CINCSO =

I&NS

ins indicated by f')

Амалий г.am 4.

THEORMA

TONGREPORT

WH

SA BUSINE 5 R

CT

LIA

STEL

5

4

N 6s

TFBI 2

CI

RID AN

AT TATE

TOTAL+

W'H SAT (L),

'E 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

INFORMATION-REPORT

TA - 1600

NO PROJECT

• (ANIMUG-1)

SSCI-316,/00380-64

IUUDOMNATINGIRELEANING

70

L1A180N

WMK: LB

51 5161

501-376798

---

## Page 2

14-00000

5.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2-

and some papers from the bank concerning other checks to GARCLA and

one Jose CARILLO Garcia.

GARCIA and CARILLO were Cuban

diplomats in Honduras until diplomatic relations were suspended

in April 1961.

2.. A document dated 5 October 1962 Included a list of Cuban personnel

assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Santlago, Chile. Alfredo

GARCIA Almeyda was included on the list as Second Secretary,

his date and place of birth were given as 1938 in Cuba and his

passport number was listed as Diplomatic 413/62..

In a report dated 21 December 1862 from a usually reliable

source, it was stated that the personal effects of Alfredo GARCLA

Almeyda, Second Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Chile and

a suspected Cuban G-2 official, were aboard the Swedish ship,

Birgit Bengt Sjoster, when it sailed from Chile to Cuba on

14 December 1962.

Early in the morning on 25 March 1963 a local Santiago radio

broadcast announced that the Cuban Second Secretary, Alfredo

GARCIA Almeyda; had been declared persona non grata by the

Chilean government for misrepresenting himself to Chilean

authorities while trying to reach the site of a plane crash in

Peru.

This information was later confirmed by the Chilean

Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs who said that GARCIA told

the governor of Arica that he (GARCIA) was a Chilean journalist

and that he had forgotten his identification documents. GARCIA

was accompanied by the Chilean Communist Deputy, Luis VALENTE

Rossi, who vouched for GARClA's story.

VALENTE tried to

convince the Peruvian Border Authorities that he was a Brazilian

journalist.

The two were denied entry into Peru and thus did

not reach the site.

This information was taken from a document

dated 25 March 1963.

In another Document dated 25 March 1963 it was reported that

Alfredo GARCIA Almeyda, Second Secretary of the Cuban Embassy

in Santiago, would leave by plane, Canadian Pacific, on 27 March

1963 for Mexico.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

= 3 -

6. A 26 March 1963 report stated that Alfredo GARCIA Almeyda left

Santiago on 26 March 1963 via Iberia Airlines enroute to Madrid.

Originally he was to leave Santiago on 27 March 1963 for Mexico

via Canadian Pacific, but the Chilean government demanded he leave

on the 26th of March.

A usually rellable scurce in a document dated 25 March 1963 advised

that Alfredo GARCIA Almeyda, Cuban Charge in Santlago, entered

Peru on two occasions using aliases.

The first occasion was on

19 March 1903 when GARCIA traveled to Tacna, Peru, using

the alias, Moises GOMEZ Paredes. GARCIA was accompanied by

a Chilean Communist Party Deputy from Arica. A Chilean news-

paperman from Artea advised source of their true identities and

source, in turn, advised the Peruvian authorities who expelled both

men to Chile. On 21 March 1963 GARCIA went to Charana, Peru,

using the alias Federico GARCIA

8. A 29 March 1963 document reported that Alfredo GARCIA Almeyda

departed Madrid for Paris on 27 March 1963 enroute to Habana via.

Prague.

9. An 1l April 1963 document gave the following biographic data on

Alfredo GARCIA Almeyda:

GARCIA was born on 3 August 1938 in Cuba. He carried

diplomatic passport number D/62/413 Issued on 3 August 1962.

He is married to Delfina (nickname Nani) QUIETIAN Fernandez

from Mexico and while in Santiago resided at Padre Restrep

2615. GARCIA was declared persona non grata by the

Chilean government for using false Chilean credentials i

crossing the Chilean-Peruvian border. GARCIA and his

to travel to Prague and then to Habana.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

