# 104-10050-10231

## Page 1

1104-10050-10231

C

C/t.

S.A.Stern/av/3-27-64

cc:

kit. Rankio

1r, Stero

Files

HE DRAIDUL

XAAZ-36392

March 27, 1904

1O

: Mr. Renicin

FROM : S. A. Stem

REPROPUCTION

SUBUICE: CIA MILO On OSTRiA PROHIBITED

Today, Friday, March 27, 190%, I mct cú CIA headquaricis viti

li'. Rocca to revion the CIA Iilo on Ice Harrey Osvald.

Tho file

contains those maicrals tunisied to us prcviously by CIA.

sidition, It contains the following micrials:

Cable reports from the CIA station in licáco of lorenber

22 and 23, 1553 relating to photogranhs of a person no hed vicitca

the Cuban and Soviet Inbassics in Marico City during Octobci and

Novauber. 1953; and reports on these cables fumished on lovember

23 by CIA to the Secret Service.

Thesc ncssages ere accunicly

pairphraced In the attachments to tho CIA memorandun of Maich 24,

1954 (Cormission Locurent (574).

b. Cablo of October 10 fron CIA Moxico City ctation to CIA

kcadquarters

reporting on lavald contact ai Soviet Enassy, and

October 10, 1963 message fron CIA headquarters to Maxico City station

of background Inforation on Oswald.

Taose nossages are eccurately

roported in the CIA aerorandur of January 31, I904.

I did not review any naterials later than Noverber 23, 1963.

Mr. Roces alno showed me the "printout" of the referonces to

Osvala documents in the CIA clectronic data storage systcri.

was no Iten linted waich we have not been civen cither in full text

or paraphrased.

When I cvidenced an Intercot In the CIA oloctronic dots.

proccssing system, lix. Rocca said that he vould arrange a detailed

explanation at a tuture visit.

TRAVEL PROSTI

ASGTRACT

1e pies

REPROPUCTION

PROHIBITED

RECORD COPY

IP/CRAV

1P/BB

CK/

TROR FIREG

2010289248

0003572

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITTED

10 697 204

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Ica Ranita

SUBJECT:

Information Developed by ClA as the

Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD ta

peptember 2, t

PROMITED

lo Illa refers to your later of February 10, 1954

relating to information forwarded by this Agency segarding

the activity a Lea Harvey OBVAID in Mexico City during

the period September 38 60 Octaber 3, 1963.

The socond paragraph of your letter saises a question

with regard to reports on current aspecta of forestigation in

Mexico, or concerning Mexican lende in the OSWALD car.

Specifically, tant paragraph seema to refer to speculative

intormation provided the Waito Honse by Jose L LASAGA

which ciginated with Salvador DIAZ VERSON. CIA has

nothing to sid to the detalled investigation of this matter

conducted by the Federal Bureau af Investigation, Wo

assuzon that the Commiasion in alroady in possesalon, ou

will be la the near future, of the detalla ol the outcaros of

that investigatien

3. CIA lo cooperating very clonely Milthe 23t la the

development of another Menican lead; as is probably airady.

Anorn to the Camalasion Minthe course u thát cooperation.

CIA devolopo original, substantive material, le la our latention

Doingraded per

c03 a satematic

107908

JUPY 7of8

SAVE ADO/TSCO

pAGE

5. 3-

COPY NO:

0003573

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SE30ST

SEI

SITIVE SOLACES ANO

REPRODUCTION

so report the detalin to the Commission concur

4. Tas following replies are boyed to the anneration ol

your letter al February 10.

We are not in s position to expply coptes of

*olograme sent betreen the Soviet Embassies is

Wantingtes and Aterico Cay,

ao Iranslation of the two police fuertogation

repOrtI-d Sibi DURAN are being forwarded to the

Comminion nades caparale cover.

-3. rom'allshe crdence ou hand, no dedeco that

CAVALO visited lo Cuban Consulate In Merten City oa

tie, alteracon a 27 Septeraber 1963 and spain come time

oa 23 Ceptember 1003. There is no evideace that be

sluted ll more otea tuna once on the days mentioned,

but we chons exciate thase posnibilities. The wording

in paragraph doves di on report, on pagao four and

five, la banel on the statemezts of Slivia DURAN and

2uan9 that OSTALD uns at the Conmate at loast once

ster dis initini violt, and that this later visit vas on

the niternova d s day on shich the Cuban Consul tele

phoned the Bertes Goraniere about OSWALD visa

problems.

This may well have boen 28 September, but

we cannot be certals of this concholon.

o We do not know whecher Cabas Constat

She bod never heard of COVAL til be the t

Consulato in Into Soptomber 1963, Ibe tile BeD

watch Silvia DURAN mentions is the one so OSt-S TCh

kirs el that time ast which she looked up agal when

OSWALD some sue published as the probeble assassla

ol Fresident Kennedy.

407908-

COPY 76f8

4.2

0003574

PAGE

6°2.

COPY

NO

3

---

## Page 4

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

5. We do not thine it would be ranuat of 315ia

DURAN to toll OSWALD Bo could not have i Cuban

tanate vina unlose ho first gos a Soviet Visa. luck'!

#rand atalements are quite common la consulaz

practice, as far as we knom.

Go We belleve thei Silvis DURAN's statement that

CWALD Men no one in Cuba meast literaly that, and

tals woull mean that ns one there coule spossor him,

vouch for his, or barue that he would not become a

pablic charge,. On the other baall, the remack el the

Soviet atfteiat wonte seems to imply that the Soviete had

no previos pocard of OSWALD, as least in Mexico, I

¿need the Soviet edicial was telling the truth.

We bellave that OSWALD both telephoned to the

RE A ON one, and was interviewed by

Do - V'e canno mere what OSWALD sanant by his

Lusions to him aidaaa. Bo went 8o Mexico white he

Tos novin his family from New Orloans to Tarao, aad

ho may bave acquired a new Texas formarding addreas

in the process which he gave firet to the Cuban Conoulate,

then minlald os forgot, and finally recevered from Cuban

Conmiate files so he could pass it to the Soviet Conmiate.

I coall also be that he was taiking about his Monten City

hotel address which he might have momentarily fosgatten

philo al the Soviet Conslate.

%. The Cohan Consulate and Cuban Embassy la

Mendao Gity are separate offices located in separate

ballinge that stand on mijacent lota separated by a

Cubas official parking lois The Cuban Consulate te ou

a corner al Masques and Zamora Ste dela 2»1, be Emhassy

Is al 160 Marques Street. Ibe Soviet E monday Sill

Cosmalato are both located de alaaz mansica mira lo IGNi

cornected outbaldingi

10. We carnite at the reference l ovAl ED)

9 November lotter to a can wha lod since bera replaced

187188

COPY 7of8

-3=

0003575

PAGE

COPE NO.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Shaunt

REPRODUCTION

Mexico for Caba en permanent trana et

1903, four daya botore the assaseianto.

been in Mexico for eigiteen yours and it was looma to ta

as carly an September 1963 that AZCUE was to be

ropiced. Hie sepincement did arrive in September.

ALCUE wsa schedaled to leave in October but dal net

Leave untu aS November.

We do not know who might have told OSWALD that

Azcus or any other Suhas had beon er me to be raplaced,

but to speculate that Stkis DURAN o some Sarlet official

REPRODUETHON

# LE CSWALD complained about

Urika bina.

no additional normation on OSWALD

• City. Thia part of the investigation

1 Federal Burne of Ivestigation

Rarough its own facillies. All of ear searces have been

queried for further infermation but none has been

developed.. Neither pro. nor anti- CASTRO persoas or

soupe have produced what we regard as hard information.

12, We can daly sueas why Subia DURAN described

OSWALD as ablonde. Furbapa his completion soomed

light to her, compared via that of mons Latin Americans.

When she was arrested, the had not seen OSWALD for

a too la bore i, but a rare REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plan.

Distribution:

Original & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP

187908

1 - C/CI

X-C/CI/R&A

1 - C/WH/3.

CCI/R&A/RGRocca.dc/18 Februazy 1964 (Para 4 based on draft

prepared by C/WH/3.)

0003576

PAGE

COPY NO.

8. 32

---

## Page 6

13-00000

ATCH

• WH Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET RYBAT

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

ZRTAFFY

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

REPRODUCTION

MICROFILM

PROHIBITED

Please transmit the attached envelope to Fletcher M. KNIGHT only.

Willard C. CURTIS

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED iT NeXT 20P6

c/uitD

ЗаСТЕ;

Attachment:

Envelope

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

Distribution:

3 - WFI, w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA -22390

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

25 October

HQ5 FILE NUMBER

201-

0003577

9

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of

---

