# 104-10220-10105

## Page 1

104-10220-10105

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination :

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

APPROVED FOR SELEASE

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEN PHOGKAM

TRANSMISIAL

BIGANCAIION

TOCA INFORMIATION MAPORT

085

sEChET

CRIO.

UNIT

Marga COrABILA:1a

ROUTINO

977 10500

R1S/LUtOL HADOIIA

EXT.

Sut7

aaanelsteler 19Ba

NAL'D GBALE1579%

TDCS DB-3/857, 100

CT/OPS, C1/SC, P1, TX/D, T1/INT 6, IM, CA &, CA/PEG, DODS, MZ &, M %°

manosroreno

1. Barghar 1903

? DISSRMINATION BETRT

SAS.8

SAS/LA

516.

SASLBLI

2

1

IITH/PACIIN

WBB/R

LBARR

SAB WAVE JGUAT -

HE/MADA 2!

PRIN

SA8/80 /HHM.ANT

MANA

ICARA

SAS/

KOHB

FLOKK

SALY

1L9XEO

TTINIOH

IJPANA

HLOND

ITEGU

1 2108

REULIINO

STATE

APMY

• MAVY

ARE

HA-SINTS INIYHUCTIONS

14

MODEK

tOUTevE

AEO ON IRE. DI.HOAS

HAVB-3151 (IN-51085)

NP (ANCONCERT-])

Llateon i

P140-201

10 R0F1

DLIST

FISISTRITIRO CTAEEA

SECRET

totare ta100

Fa eu

JIIOUY NIPOENO SATROM

COSEINATRIO ISFTiCEES

Thi Khùng

---

## Page 2

104-10220-10105

APFROVED FOR PELEASE 1994

Keep i gue

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PEROR T LILLECRAT

SCINTRAL INTAINS ENGE AGINE

moans

CUISIRICATION - DISSENITATION CONTROIS

C-O-N-F-J-JO-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

•CUBA/LATIN AVERICA

RIPORINO. TOES DB-3/657, 108

SUBSCT.

VIEWS OF CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS ON

DATE DISTR, 7 OCTOBER 1903

THE STATUS OF HIS MILITARY PLANS

190:0 • 890

TO LIBERATE CUBA

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

30 SEPTEMBER 1963.

34085

Іню.

REFERENCES TDCSDB-3/656, 00G

PLACI &

UNITED STATES, MIAMI

TDCSDB-3/656, 676

DATA ACO.

(4 OCTOBER 1983)

TDCSDB-3/656,858

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORI NO.

THIS IS UNEYALUATED INPORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT AS TEMEANINE.

SOURCE

A CUBAN EXILE WIIO WAS PROMINENT

IN POLITICS AT THE PROVINCIAL

LEVEL IN CUBA, SOURCE IS WELL KNOWN BY THE CUBAN EXILES AND HAS

REPORTED OBJECTIVELY ON THEIR POLITICAL MANEUVERS.

THES IN-

FORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANCISCO L. FESSER.

• 1. ON 30 SEPTEMBER 1963 FRANCISCO L. FESSER SAID THAT

HE HAD SEVERAL DISCUSSIONS WITH FORMER CUBAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

PRIO SOCARRIS DURING THE PAST 10 DAYS AT PRIO'S MINI BEACH

HOME. (HEADQUARTERS COSIVENT: FESSER IS A CUBAN EXILE WHO HAS

HAD PREVIOUS CONTACTS WITH PRIO.) ACCORDING TO FESSER, PRIO

OFFERED HIS THE JOB OF SETTING UP A TYPE OF GENERAL STATE WHICH

HOULD BE COMPOSED OF PROFESSIONAL CUBAN ARMY OFFICERS WHO ARE

NOW LIVING IN EXILE, THESE MEN ARE TO BE OFFICERS WHO HAVE :

NOT BEEN CHARGED AS WAR CRIMINALS DURING THE BATISTA REGIMÉ ANP

MHO WOULD DIRECT THE MILITARY OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA FROM

CLASSIFICATION → DIREMINATION CONTROLS

C-0-N-F-I-0-5-N-T-1-A-L

REFCINCLANT

TREASURY

ATTORNEY GENERAL

TEGEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

11K$ 02006178 22812008 807pan

11097.

.-..

---

## Page 3

104-10220-10105

CLASSHKATN = DISSEMIN

C-0-N-9-I-D-E-N-T=I-A-I

NO POREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN

O 78085

TDCSDB~3/657,108

VARIOUS CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES.

2. PESSER SAID HE HAD &ZVERAL TALKS WITH FORMER COLONEL

EDUARDO ERNESTO MARTIN Y ELENA, FORMER COLONEL PEDRO A. VALDIVIA

ROMERO AND LLEUTENANT SAENZ (PNU); SAENZ, WHO IB KNOWN FOR HIB

PERSONAL VALOR, NAS CHOSEN TO COMPLEMENT MARTIN ELENA WHO IS

KNOWN MORE. FOR HIS CAPABILITY THAN POR HIS VALOR, FEBNER BAID

THE AIM IS TO DIVIDE CUBA MILITARILY INTO THREE SECTORS: EASTERN,

CENTRAL, AND MESTERN.

3.

ACCORDING TO PESIER, THE GROUP HAS ADEQUATE ARMS FOR

THE OPERATIONS WHICH IT WANTE TO BEGIN IN NOVEMHER OR DECZUBER

1983. THE GROUP ALSO HAS BOATS AND PLANES. MUZH THY ACTION

STARTS THERE, WILL BE SIMULTANEOUS ATTACKS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OP

THE ISLAND, NOT LESS THAN POUR A DAY. TIREE ATTACKS MILL. HERYT

TO SOFTEN THE ISLAND IN PREPARATION FOR A LANDING. FAZAIR

KINTIONED THAT JOSE ANTONIO LUCO, A FRIEND OF PRIO, HAS PURCHASED

ARMS AND AIRPLANES DURING THE PAST HONTH IN ENGLAND, FRANCH, AND

ITALY.

1. ACCORDING TO TESSER, ORLANDO PUENTE PEREZ, 5410°9

SECRETARY, TRAVELED TO SAPAN DUZING THE PAST MONTH IN ORDER TO

BUY SPEED BOATS AND MOTHER SHIPS.. FESSER SAID THAT FALO HAS

ASSURED HIY THAT HE HAS 10 MILLION COLLARS WITH MICH TO START

OPERATIONS, AND THAT HE HAS MILITARY BASES IN HAITI, VENEZLELA,

LASSHICATON - LI.

C-0-N-F-1

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISASH

поя 811

18370-48-957

CONTUNARONI ON TRES FFORMATICH NORT

---

## Page 4

104-10220-10105

CLASSHICATION - DISSEMINA

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-A-I-A-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSES

TOCSDB-3/657,108

N 31085

PAGE 3

COLONBIA, COSTA RICA, NICARAGUA, EL SALVADOR, HONDURAS, AND

GUATEMALA. FESSER ADDED THAT PRIO, FEELS CERTAIN HE CAN CARRY

OUT HIS PLANS AND DESTROY CASTRO.

5.. FESSER SAID THAT DURING HIS CONVERSATIONS WITH PRIO

THE LATTER SPOKE DISPARAGINGLY OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

PRIO SAID THAT IT WAS NECESSARY TO BEGIN THE STRUGGLE OUTSIDE

THE RESTRICTIONS OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT SINCE -ANY

OTHER COURSE OF ACTION HOULD ALLOW CASTRO AND THE SOVIET UNION (SIC)

TO FALL UNDER AMERICAN DOMINATION, WHICH WOULD BE DISASTROUS

FOR THE CUBANS, PRIQ ÜNID HE HOULD ACCEPT A SITUATION OF BEING

AN ALLY OF THE UNITED STATES BUT UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES MOULD

HE PASSIVELY ALLOW A PUPPET GOVERNMENT TO BE SET UP IN CUBA..

6.. FESSER SAID THAT PRIO IS TRYING TO CONVINCE THE

WEALTIY CUBANS IN EXILE THAT, IF THEY HANT TO RECOUP THEIR

RICHES IN CUBA IN THE SUTURE, THEY NUST CONTRIBUTE SOME OF

THEIR WEALTH. IF THEY DO NOT, THEY WILL ALLOW THE UNITED STATES

TO UTILIZE A FEW CUBANS TO TOPPLE CASTRO AND ESTABLISH A GOVERN-

MENT OF THEIR CHOOSING, AS WAS DONE IN JAPAN AFTER THE SECOND

WORLD WAR. THIS GOVERNMENT WOULD THEN PROCEED TO MAKE ECONOMIC

AND SOCIAL CHANGES WHICH WOULD COST THEM THEIR WEALTH.

7.

FIELD DISSEM: STATE, FBI, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE

AN-T -I-A -I

NO FOREIGY DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

use mences

Xf6 MI

145-88-86-481

CONTINUATION OF TDES INFORMATION REPORT

---

