# 104-10167-10100

## Page 1

104-10167-10100

DATE

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

562

10 APR 61

BELL

MHAVE

SHET

controlled Celle

DOP, COP, 100P/1, C/514/0 N, CAH, Bet: 5/981

AMDIP-

03

Dir

LOUTING

APR 10 2346Z 61

PRIORITY

IN 2752

PRITY BELL CITE WAVE 5488

201-1 96435

SZIP. PSYCH ZRPERUSAL

-dE-

(AMDIP/i)

RYBAT RPT RYBAT

03

REF BELL 3991 (CuT 5218) I

IA probably has

file.

•1o FCC MIAMI 7 APR BOARDED CALYPSO AND POSTED SIGN WARNING •

AGAINST USE OF RADIO, ALSO ARRESTED IWO OPERATORS ON BOARD:

EXILIO DE CARDENAS PINERA AND AURELIO LUGO GONZALEZ, CHARGING

THEM WITH OPERATING RADIO STATION WITHOUT FEDERAL LICENSE.

20 LIAISON SOURCES REPORT THAT OPERATORS PROTESTED ARREST

SAYING THAI RADIO WAS SPONSORED BY AN ODYOKE AGENCY AND CRAFT

INDERGOING REPAIRS FOR PARIICIPATION IN INVASION CUBA.

3o MIAMI FCO AUTHORITIES VOULD APPRECIATE KUBARK HOS

Get were?

SPECIFICALLY REQUEST FCC HQS TO NEUTRALIZE CALYPSO IN ORDER IKAT

THEY MAY HAVE VESSEL TOVED TO SECURE DOCK MIAMI.

4. FYI. VAVE PROP ASSETS HAVE REPORTED THAT ANDIP-S ALREADY!

EXPRESSED TO AMJAG-! UNWILLINGNESS GIVE UP PERSONAL/POLITICAL

CONTROL OF CRAFT FOR USE BY AMBUO PARA 2, ABOVE, INFO TENDS

INDICATE ANDIP-I MIGHT HAVE INDEPENDENT PLANS FOR CALYPSO, SINCE

WAVE UNAYARE ANY PLANS. PARTICIPATION OF CALYPSO IN MILIT OR MILIT

PSYCH WAR: EFFORI, MOS MAY WISH BRING UP FATTER WITH AMBUD 1

SECHET.

REPRODUCTION BY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy Na.

RETURNTO CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not reproduce

7/00

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

77

WAVE 5480

IN 2752

PAGE

TO PERSUADE ANDIP I TO TURN OVER CRAFT TO AYSUD. REASONING THIS:

IS IN VIEW AMBUD'S OBVIOUS BEARING OF ODYOKE STA:P CS APPROVAL

IT MIGHT BE POSSIBLE THROUGH BENDER COMPLEX TO AFFECI CALYPSO'S

RELEASE ON BASIS OF ASSURANCE BY AMBUD I THAT CRAFT AND RADIO WILL

NOT VIOLATE P3PRIME LAVS AND OPERATE ON APPROVED WAVELENGTH.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S CONMENT: *REQUEST WAVE TAKE IMMEDIATE STEPS NEUTRALIZE CALYPSO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

