# 104-10186-10171

## Page 1

104-10186-10171

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT "Armando" (an alias)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CSCI -316/00902-65

17 February 1965

PETURN TO CIA

NO. PAGES.

REFERENCES

Background Use Only

DATE OF 1964

Do Not Reproduce

CS-311/00115-64

(page 10)

8 July 1964

INFO

PLACE & Washington,

DATE ACO. January 1965

D. C.

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVAIUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE DRAINOS ARE DEPINITIVE: AARUSAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of & series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no actiun on ahy of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first

checking with this Agency.

Escuias Especiales (Department

the Direccion General ce Inteligencia (General Directorate

of Intelligence - DGI).

Hea-quarters Comment

1.

The

records

of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on "Armando."

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

Restated for

STATE

I OLA

REP

CINCLANT

Mate: Field distribution indiared by "#*')

I NAVY

CINCSO # LENS

I oce

TEBT Z

INFORMANON REPORT INFORMATION REBORI

nanada

RID/AY

ILX 2419

NO PROJECT (ANNUO/ 1:

CSCI-316/00802-65

MAL. HAVE

it !

TOTALS AlL, SAS

(1), WE 1 (1), CI %, RID 1

LIAISON

COORDINTING SALES

BLS :L.D: =Wik

4/BR

---

