# 104-10167-10004

## Page 1

104-10167-10004

257

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE • 20 JUNE 60

I TO

& DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION, CAM 6 MIN DIV ISSUED TEMPO COPY 1710-20 UN 60)

INFO B DOP, COP, ADOP/A, 8/C 8

201-192135-

ROUTING

5

JUNE 20: 2047Z 60

PRIORITY

IN 14294

PRITY DIR INSO MASH CITE HAVA 4998%

RYBAI, KENET

No. 47375) 44

RET

2534 6VOT SENT MÄSHI

1.

ON 17 JUNE AJANTHEM INTRODUCED EDUARD DO KNAFMAN TO

CUBAÑA CAPT EDVARDO FREER (NO RELATION FORMER FAR INSPECTOR.

GUTRAL MENTIONED RSF) FERRER ARRANGED FOR KNAPMAN TO NEST

RAMON RUISANCHEZ PISDAD, TONY VARONA SOREHER-IN-LAW.

RUIS/"

TOLD KNAPNAN HE IS ASOUT TO MAXE CONTACT IN RAVA WITH PEFRESENTATIVE

OF A GROUP CUBAN REBEL ARMY OFFICERS FROM LAS VILLAS WHO ARE

DISAFFECTED AND THAT LATTER GROUP HAS 220 OFFICERS AND MEN•

RUISANCKEZ VOULD NOT OR GOULD NOT GIVE NAME THIS REPRESENIATIVE

SAID HE WISHED GET NORD TO AMHAWS CONCERNING THE GROUP AND THAT

ME WANTED GUIDANCE FNOMINAPMAN AND ASIANE CONCERNING USE OF GROUP.

ASKED KNAPMAN ASSIST HIM EXFILTRATE ONS OFFICER TO PEPRIME TO

RECEIVE GUIDANCE AND INSTRUCTIONS.

SO KNATMAN COMMENTED RUISANCHEZ CENTAINLY MUST HAVE COMMO

CHANNELS TO ANHAWK GROUP PAPRIME: AND THAT ENAPHAN SAW NO NEED

TOR OBASEB: DECOME INVOLVED THIS MATTERO RUISANCHEZ COUNTIED

THAT OPACED ALREADY BEING USED• KNAPMAN ASKED NAME-: OF MAN

IN

PESORUCTIAN AN OTHIS THAN THE ISSUINO ONICE I PROMISITIO,

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Copy No.

VIBR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

14294.

HAVA 4990

CONTACT KITH OJACID I!: AVA AND RUS.

EZ CEFLIND SIIS STIUST

BE COULD OF VIOLATE MITHOUT CONSULTING ili! JVGLURD. WILS

ARPANGE CUTS TO SEE SUES IGAIN ON HIS INITIATIVE GONG MADE,

•KNAPMAN IDE NO CONITISITS O MUTING.

JO OLIEN MET CUISRICHEZ AT TILE OF DEPARTURE NSUKO, D0S

AND RUISANCHEZ VEPY. LIKELY HAS CONTACT WITH ONE OF ATA:ZO: O!:

WITH AMHAWK-ZO HOWEVER, SINCE THIS NOT CHANNEL ORIGINALI? SET

UP FOR CONTACT WITH AGAN GROUP HAVA, STATIC WILL DISCOURAGE

FUTURE RELATIONS:LIP WITH RUISANZHEZ UNLESS HQS MAG VIEW TO

CONTRARY. WHILE UZ HAVE NO REASOW DOUBT RUISANCHEZ GOOD FAIRI,

HE COULD BECOME VICTIM CASTRO PROVOCATION. HOS MAY VISH QUENY

MANHAWK RE RUISANCHEZ®

REQUEST KOS VIEU RE ADVISABILITY CONTINUING

CONTACT WITH HIM.

FILED 2015157

END OF MESSAGE

CB COMMENT: "#CONCERNED ARREST OF 'CUBAN AIR FORCE. OFFICER.

CS NOTE: "DUP NUMBER ZEUNG SERVICED FOR CONFIRMATION.

SECRE

PRODUCION DY. OTMER THAN INE ISSUING CHICE IS PROMINTO

---

