# 104-10116-10442

## Page 1

104-10116-10442

SECHET

date

carding

21 Deb68

MEMCFANDUM FOR: C/E/BC/C

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

: Role of Vancouver, Canaca, in

Disinformation re the Garrison

Investigation

72

22 Aggust 1967,

Di Kennedy Assassination: Donald P

NORTON

)ftle 10C-3üC-17.

1. Reference forwarded a CI/R&A memorandum about NORTON

ta

Since that date FBI reports have shown that

NCRTCN is a con man, and U.S. Air Force Medical records have re-

vealed that he was discharged lo July 1950 as a result of psychlatric

problems, having tried on two or more occasions to commit suicide.

NORTON's lies about CIA flist appeared in th Vancouver Sun

3n 5

August 1967.

2. The attached FEl report, DBB 77295, VE April 1967, concerns

another example of disinformation appearing in Vancouver, involving the

Sun, and related to the Carrigen Case.

A check of Agency files showed

that we have Da record oi frevor LAUTENS (ario GRACIASD OI E

Misa Dorothy WHITTY. The reierence of the unidenttited caller to

GRACIAS may have been a garble for danuel CARCIA Gonzalezy Whom

Garrison has named as obe of the assassins or Fresident Kennedy but

who appears to bave disappeared or to be non-existent. There are no

Agency traces (Inclucing J' VAVE) DE GARCLA.

3. The Communist press generally and Soviet nevs media specitically

have given Garrison's story enthusiastic coverage and support, because

it is obviously in their interest to maintain that Fresident Kennedy was

16s

SECRET

RETC

NTO CIA

Background U'se Onig

Do Noi Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGACT :

assassinated not by pro-Communist Lee Farvey Oswald but rather a

a result o! a right-wing conspiracy lavolving CIA.

4. The surfacing of two such allegations in or through the Vancouver

Sun seems to place a strain on colncidence. Do you kave asy information

about the use of the Sun in other surfecings of WHORDER propaganda

against CIA? Is there any Information about contacle betveen employeea of

the Sun and representatives of Soviel Intelligence? Il no such information

is at hand. it would be appreciated if these questions were forwarded to

Although Headguarters has no record of Trevor LAUTENS,

it is conceivable thal

jilles may also hold taformation about him.

DOnOVan E. Prett

DC/CI/R&A

Attachmenta

Distribution

Crig & 1 - Acressee

1- A/DCI (MI. Goodsla)

1 - General Counsel

1 - Office of Security (Atta: MI. Paul Gaynor)

1 - CI/R&A Chrono

1 - DP for file (New Vancouver file)

1 - CI/REA (Miss Smith)

EGRET

---

