# 104-10118-10294

## Page 1

104-10118-10294

1:78

"ply 181404678-2718

SECRET

FRP:..

STAFF

CONF: C/LA8

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE: DDO-4, C/CI•4, CHEPSIEG-ZI

C/EURE, C/OG/DMS, CAPES, S/POS/LOG, C/POSAPGL, DDO/DO, OLGA

(32/P)

78 1538813

TOT:

PAGE 001

082331Z. NOV. 78

DIRECTOR 323590

SECRET

STAFF 082331Z DIRECTOR 323590

TO:

PRIORITY

INFO MEXICO

CIA HISION CAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELICE AS SANITIZED

REFS:

B.

1/99

1.

KOISE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA). HAS

ADVISED HOS THAT THEY DESIRE INTERVIEWCPZAFGHAN/1 (OB1) IN CONNECTION

WITH HIS DUTIES AS P.A, OF THE PHOTO SURVEILLANCE: OPERATION IN MEXICO

CITY.

EMPHASIS WILL

PROBABLY BE ON PERIOD SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1963.

WHICH COINCIDES WITH VISIT TO MEXICO CITY OF LEE HARVEY OSTALD.

HSCA INITIALLY PROPOSED TO SEND THO INVESTICATORS TO MADRID

TO CONDUCT INTERVIEW OFLOZI UTILIZING STATE DEPARTMENT COUNTER-PART

FUNDS SINCE THEY HAVE NO FUNDS TO BRINGLEJI TO U.S. FOR INTERVIEW.

IN VIEW PRESS REVELATIONS CITED REFS, AND TO PRECLUDE ANY FURTHER

PRESS PLAY WHICH COULD BE GENERATED BY PRESENCE ASCA STAFFERS IN

MADRID, HOS WILLING TO BRING POLITO U.S: AT AGENCY EXPENSE TO FACILI

TATE INTERVIEW AND AVOID ADDITIONAL PRESS EXPOSURE: THIS, OF COURSE,

PREDICATED ON L/I WILLINGNESS TO SUBMIT TO INTERVIEW BY MSCA.

IN VIEW PUBLICITY DIRECTED ATLI AND FORMER STATION STAFFERS

REQUES

POSITION ON SERVING AS MIDDLE-MAN FOR HSCA WHICH WOULD

CONSIST OF CONTACTINGLORTI AND PASSING HSCA INSTRUCTIONS AND FUNDS FOR

TRIP TO U.S.

WOULD ALSO

WELCOME ANY ALTERNATIVE SUGGESTIONS TO

EFFECT INTERVIEW OFLEZIS.

4• FILE:

201-0288248,

EZ, IMPDET.&

ORIG

C/LA/ST B/N STURBITTS:CO CRED-9127, GREEN- 3215)8 COORD:

AC/LA/MGSB (LEMMAN-DRAFT); OLC (PC/HSCA) (BRECKINRIDGE -DRAFT); PCS/PGL

(SHEPANEK-TELECOORD); LA/ST D/B&F (INFO) S

AUTH:

C/LAD (WARREND; RELA C/EUR

CL BY 012180€

END OF

MESSAGE

SEGREF

1769.9

---

