# 104-10308-10148

## Page 1

104-10308-10148

OUTGOING MESSAGE

21 2

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

TOG:

TPE.

MAO

PAGE

OMFO

SECRET

SSAGE

CATOR

STAFF

CONF

0

: 0

0

RETURNTO CHA

Background USe Caly

DATE TIME GROUP

4aB8 4

Do Not Reprodura

211706Z

DIRECTOR

INFO FILE P)AN, EURE, OPS|INI

LSN/iD. cilora

CINDEX

NO INDEX

L RETURN TO

151

056/10

HIP PILES.

602011:

DISSEM: BYS

PER

TOS PRIORITY

AKULE REAM JAGUAR) Of

REF:

SIL N 306240 P

¿ROS TRACES ALDO PEDRO MARGO LILES DUENAS 1201-

315167} INDICATE HE ALSO USED NAMES ALDO MARGOLLES Y DUNAS AND ALDO

FRI

MARTINEZ MORALES. REPORT DATED 1961 FROM ENERGO SAYS HE SON OF

CHIEF OF CUBAN NATIONAL REPOLICE NRI WHO WAS ATTEMPTING, ENTER UPSE

IN ORDER MEET WITH CASTRO AGENTS AND ASSASSINATE PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

LATER INFO POSSIBLY ALSO BASED ISERCO REPORTING INDICATE SUBJEGT

IS HIMSELE CHIEF OF PNR AND MAYOR OF CIENFUEGOS SUBJECT TRAVELED

FREELY THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA SPREADING CASTRO DOCTRINE REPORT

SAID HE ALWAYS IN CONTACT WITH COMMUNIST PARTY HIGH COMMAND Y

2. LEAT ALSO REPORTED IN MARCH L4 THAT SUBJECT UNDER

PROTECTION OF CUBAN PRESIDENT DORTICOS. MARGOLLES WAS MEMBER 25

JULY MOVÉMENT, IS RELATED TO EMILIO A RA GONES NAVARRO

APRESENT CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO ARGENTINAT AND IS OLD-GUARD MBR

CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY EPCCH: WIN 1964 HE WAS WORKING WITH INVESTI-

GATIVE CORPS OF CUBAN G-2, ESPECIALLY IN LAS VIULAS PROVINCE.

DATE

ORIG:

UNIT::

EXT:

CLASSIFICATION

FI

CI

CA

FR

COOROINATING OFFICERSO DIST

RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUICE RONDE IS PROHIBITED..

OFFICER

IMPDET

CL 8Y 061393

SECRET

3/1300

---

## Page 2

13-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

•SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

cos

ACP

roc

TRE

MRO

DCI

OMF

CLASS

SECRET

LINGINDICATOR

0

0

0

PAGE

op::

PAGES

2

DATE-TIME GAOUS

STAFF

CITE

DIRECTOR

0

CONF:

INFO: A FILE

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURA TO

PER

. DISSEM BY:

601011

IP FILES

WHERE HE FEARED AS UNSCRUPULOUS INDIVIDUAL CAPABLE OF ANY CRIME

WHICH WOULD SERVE CASTERO REGIME• HE ACCUSED OF HAVING KILLED

MANY INNOCENT FARMERS IN LAS VILLAS AREA. SUBJECT ENTERED U-S•

ILLEGALLY NOV SO AND RESIDED MIAMI UNTIL JAN 59, WHEN HE LEFT U.S•

VOLUNTARILY Y

JASON 27/SEPT 631 SUBJ APPOINTED VICE MINISTER OF MINISTRY

OF INTERIOR MINIENT} DURING AUG 6S REORGANIZATION HE WAS REPLACED

IN THIS JOB. IN JAN E66 HE RETURNED FROM TRIP USSR AND AFRICA.

LATER INFO FROM 2766 INDICATES HE WAS DEMOTED FROM DOMAJOR TO

CAPTAIN- REASONS UNKNOWN• IN 19667 SUBJECT WAS CHIEF OF IMMIGRATION

OF MININTON.

FBI

4. ALTHOUGH, INFO PARAS 1 AND 2 ABOVE FROM BIENCO, IT HAS ALL

BEEN CONFIRMED FROM VARIETY REFUGEE AND DEFECTOR SOURCES AT LATER

DATES. THEREFORE, (STATION MAY PASS IT AND PARAS 3-4 TO JAGUAR). Y

50 FILE: 201-315161 E2 IMPET • A

UH COMMENTE REF REQUESTED TRACES MAR GOL LIES FOR (AGUAR)

DATE EL SEPTEMBER 1924

ORIG:

UNIT

EXT.

THE EGAN

9223

OPS/LSA ARL

CERRE

REPRODU ONEY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS A IBITED

SECRET

01

NE:2

& CL/BY:

IMPDET

051393

---

