# 104-10114-10021

## Page 1

104-10114-10021

TANDARD MORA NO B$

Office Memorändum •

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Chuf, 113

DATE:

9.Saf8.1987

SUBJBCT:

CROZIER, Co

14112569

1. talt Oden, C//ot, war callal

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DDS/185

ADDS/185

SSD. Chiel

Dea Chief

A 1s Chief

=r

in Can Br.

Dost: 13-

Desk 59-

Deck CiB

55D Files

SECRET

$ JUL 1957

Chief, CI/QA

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

6-25508

8712569

1. Reference is made to your menorandun dated 28 February

1957 whercin e covert security approval was requested to enable

he Subject's conversion Iron contract agent to career agen

status for nse es principal agent for Project AG Ol 71

Cuba under

Refercace 15 also nade to our

senorandun ai 2 april 1951 in wich a provisional covert

socurity clearance sas granted for the above use.

and Operational Clearances, " a covert security clearance 1s

as set forth in parazram 1, above.

3. Iris clearance is contingent upon the falloring:

ho the roceipt by this offico di fall oversea:

traces and such actual overseas Iwesti;:tion as is

possible on Subject and on his wife and her family.

Do that subject bi afiarded a nolyaran inter

rojation as soon as possible ani that the verbatur

results be procutly furnished to this office.

office of Security till be happy to assist in

arranging this interrozition.

4. Salijects a covert security clearances are not to represent

themselves es, nor are they to be represented as, employees of

CIAo

So your attention 15 calle: to the fact that a covert security

clesrance does not constitute conplete connliance vith the

provisions of CIA Perelation 10-210. Inerefore, if you snould

acuiro at i later date to change the status or use of this

indiviual, a roquest for glearance to cover any proposed change

230

Teles.

fruit

sitt

He cur

REAPE

-=

---

## Page 3

6. This clearance beconcs Inalid in the evant the Subject's

services are "ot utilized within 60 days of the date of this

somorendu.

FOR TEF. DIRECTOR DE SECURITIS

Robert to um nates

<2I/Aane 1957 (t:)

27ulane 1957 (retyped,

I July 1957 (retyped

CLOSED

CHINA B'S

1J1bH.21

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

DDSI&S

AUDS ISI

SSO.

Cret

A 10 CHef

la see

De: CAB.

SECRET

Chief, CI/C1

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Suppert)

C25507

8112569

I, Concurrent with this memorandon a covert security clearance

15 being Isrued to crable the Subject's conversion from contract

agent to career agent for use as srincipal agent for Project

AN COl Jin Gaba under

2. This Is to advise that information has boan roceived

Dran a confidentiel source of the office of Security comedog

and her slater"

elloved tóltho subjectio vile and sisterin lam respectively.

Acearding to a December I9'l repart, the above Individuals

vere described &s Costa Bican citizens then In Penna under

susploion and mentors of the Russian Ballet tear of Podro and

Gerans, She has loperly married to

arrand i te socali and understan

repartedly

a vermen national and formerly on tota Eritish and u. S.

Proclinad Listo She 1s seliably re-arted to have made uro

German rears en is pro ternan in her sympathies. It sas

further reported that both of the above Individuals bave at

tines attenstod to secure Intomation Iron members of the

American inned Forces-

3. In vicw of the abore inforation,. It is requested that

current overseas traces and investigation le conducted on the

Subject as well as on zis wife and sister-in-law, C 06 Jand

otier members of his wife's linediate family and that tue

results thereof be furrished this office.

L. The covert security clearance which is being Issued

i": this case is made contingent unon the favorable results of

the requestos overscas traces and investigation.

TO" ME DIRECTOR SE SECULITI:

21 1Une 1957

SUpREMENTAI

Has seror!

to CIA.

1526H.21

Robot owninchen

to disclosed crope

- 220

1!: 15:23

---

