# 104-10218-10006

## Page 1

104-10218-10006

DISPATCH

CLASSFATIN

SECRET

1O

Chief of station, WAVE

richiel,

Chiel,

ks

Chief, JOELF

FROM

kE

Chief 08 Eratlong

COrITY/. In/Operations Interrogation of Cuben Feracere

AT FIG REQUIRED

HiSEPENSES

RI7 8

12600, 5 hugust 1062

PRO

POSED

PROCESSING

ASTRON

BABIES FOR IRONIS

нО ПОСІВ, В

CAN RICOL INCIS

AASTIC!

Attachmet A, forwarded herevith, 10 a VAZALl tranelation of to TALlI

Interroration of Darious Antonio Felix ELOTRA end John ICCE.

The repert vas receive

STon WInI, uho asturlly did the questioning.

Copies of mabjects

received fIGa VIDYA, are foruarded as Attactment a teresita.

a hes handing

these doemento, vAl. It/d said that som of the

Inioration In the Interroration report ves purgonely distorted, probebly to protect

the lentent action of the VILIts in uttera concernine the Festival eod couta

cotivity. Tha only estant coples of this report are la the VALDI Illes.

WILTER L GATOGIE

Attachmento:

Interrogation report

Do Fassport coples

Distributions

w/atte, apos alacle copy eeca

8 - IE, Watt. a alacle oury

- VE, o/atro a (solading orte, Plealah-lengage veralon), angle copy

- IVOLT, WAiT, a sinELe cOpY

Jo/atto a

MICROFILMED

AUG 8 8 1957.

DOC, MICRO, SER

ES COPY

2-124 - 22/32

• 200-124-12263

28-2-413

DATE TTY

DALIT. I

трни

15 Aarust 62)

17 Angust CR

DESPATCH SYNSOL AND MINDER

0TEL5970

toch-Gene

---

## Page 2

SECRET.

country:

Subject:

Date:

FINLAND

ANTI-FESTIVAL ACIIVITY LY THO CUEAR REFUGEES

10 AUgUBE 1952.

At 1800 houre on fundey, 29 July 1962, a procersion cosposed

of various nationalitles ettending the horld Youth and Student VGII

Peace and Friendebip Festival wae enroute to the Clyaple Stcaium

alone :annerhelnintle. he 1t passed the :annerhe1-1ntle-Pohjole-

Reutatlekatu Intersection, etudents Enrique Antonio Fella Eeloyra

and John Koch, cuten refugees living in the USh, tere etending on

the top of a holkewagen. They ebouted sosething at the proceeion

and opened up a white banner (about 7t by 4t feet) on which the

following text was written In Spanish, French and English:

D. R. E.

LIBERTAD 15,000 JoveneS presos CUBA

LIBEREZ

15,000 jeunes ErlEonniere CUBA

Free the 15,000 youth in Jail in CUSA

because It was suepected that the conduct of felore and Koch

right lead to on incident Involving then and the featival procescion;

they were taken by police to the Helsink! Grininal Police Iepart-

nent where their banner has confiecates.

Inspec-

tor of the Criminal Police Departuente lade a, prelliinary Inter-

rogation at thich teloyra and Roch said they they had cose to Fin-

"land on 26 Jul E2 (sle) Nith the intention of rating contact tith

the Cuban youth at the festival and to ask then atout current don-

d1t10n8 1n Cuba, With this in wind, thes painted the above text.

on a white sheet with black paint aù thelr (ele) quartere in the

: Klaus Kurki Hotel,: meaning 16 to be seen by the Cuban Festigal

1 participants when displayed.

...A

Crisinal Folice Survelllence

officer eave the indersigned an order on I'due i2 to interrorate

---

## Page 3

•Felogra and Koch.

The interrogation tock place on 2 Aug E2, with

as trcreletor and

r.8 wItneBB, and tas secorded as follows:

Student Earique Antondo FelialEelosta, citizendor Cute and

noW a penuEdo in the USe care that dee torn on le due 42

In liaranna, cute, and that ho now lives perzanently at 1528 south

weat sth street, ser horses

lorida. Me aid not vien to alectose where

no had Lived ln cabe, ford parente

me here teles

university student, and in Cuba ves studying to be an eloctrical

engineers. Hie father was arrested in 1960 for politleal reasons

but had told his son before arrest to get a paesport and zet out

of the country at the firat opportunity. Errique Delogra applied

for and rocoired a passport brough the "Inister of Internal hi-

fairs. He now bes a cuban passport, number 24192/1.6.1950. He

had made contact vith the English E-bassy In Havanna and had made

the acquaintance of an official in 1t When be left Earanna o

10 Sep EZ on a Pas-AlerIcan

Airways plane, the first stasp has put

Into bla passport on page 81%. The English E-bassy official wbom

[elogra knew vas also on the plane to help Felojra ill any diffi

culty arose in departure. The reason Beloyre did not leave ear-

'Iles vas that an InvaBlon ves expected at any conent. At tillazl

he turned binself over to the Anerican authorities and applied for

a residence per-ll. There le a residence peralt starped on pege

seven of his passport and It 18, dated 9 Oct El. Felogra could nor

continue his studies In the USA due to fInancial diffIculties. Fe

180ok a Job as a lied of gulda or sunctionary le the service of tbe

cuban repufee preenleatlo, tere. Rio function vee in receive snd,.:

---

## Page 4

202-799

dietribute ald chipuente at a school where there vere sany h

children of cuban refugees.; In the USA he belonged to a club of

cutan refugee siudente. About tro veere before his arrival in

I''nland he vas in this club. They had heard that the Conceniet

countries vere preparing the Festival In Finland and they legen

to discuss Inst anti-castro enlightensent activity ought to bo

undertaken esong the verlous Feetival youth delegatione, perticu

New, Jarly the Cuban one, by salthe fe known to then how many Curen

jouth and students are in cuban prisons.

They here sure than the

people of Cuba were not aware of these things. There were fi

nencial difficulties la gotting started, but aftor 1t vas arranged

for belogra to pay 50p now and 50% later in Inetalluente (custorary

there, the satter was settled. reloyra had had $500.00 in the tank

ard he used this as the down pasment, the total cout being about

€1200.00. His laot paycheck" gave bim $400.00 for pending, era be

nor has 1242.00 left.

For his enlightensent work, Feloyra hongbrought sose tooklets

with hin fros an organization naved airectorio Revolucinario Estu-

dient1l (D.P.."..) (Cuben Students' Revolutionary Leadership). They

were printed in

Chile In Englisb, French, and Spanich, and tell

alout condizions in Cube and the etudents' flebt againet dictator

ship beginning in the liaptista (ale) era. Earlier they were die-

tributed in the countries of lorth and South Azerica, Aecordine

to ?églogra, the books be had here were in English and french, and

vere dietrisuted pricarily to lest Eurocean newssen, although his

original inseat had been to distrubte them to all nos-Cosminiet

Festival perticipants. If Feloyra resembers correctis, be et1ll

a bee qne er-: a? thie atllection In lie hotel too..

-'insane

---

## Page 5

14-00000

1..

On pago nine of Felograls passport is a Finnieh vica, nucter

55/C2g which hle student organizirtion got for hin in the office

of the Consul Cencral of Finland In lier York on the sane das the

VIsa vas otamped, 20 Jul C2. It was granted fros 24 Jul to

7 Aug 62.

Felogru left lew Yor! for Finland on an SAS plane on 24 sul 52

and arrived firet it Jaygrup, Densark, as stamped on pare elcht of

From

62, al80 stamped on page elcht of hie presport. He cants air to

he etill stage.

Ecloyre wet John Koch, a Cuban student whom he knew and tho

was on a similar trip, In Stockhols and they cave to Finland to-

"Eether. Koch firet got a room at the klaus Furls Hotel but on

31. Jul 62 be had to move to the Hotel Perho (a cunter hotel in the

Rostaurant Forconnel School) becaused of a room shortage.

Their

originel Intent was to vielt the Cuban Feetivel dele-

fetlon's quarters and Inceribe the walle with the lottere D.R.E.

Eut after they learned that the Finnich jouth had antl-Fectival

opinione, they delded to bring out openly their anti-cestro poi

-Bition to the Cuban delegation. lith this in sind, Felogre and ..

Roch bought eone black paint froz a Heleinka paint ehop on setur

dey end in the alternoon of Sunday, 29 Jul 62,. they took e cheet

from Kochis bed at the Flaus Kurkl Hotel and they painted on it

the Spanish, French, and Engllth text appeering in the opening pert

ör this report.

Roch had borroved lla kolkewagen, and they drove

et 1800 hours that eare evenine to ele the procescion as it nored

---

## Page 6

5-5-5-5

•.

с2 ідs"r.

Intersection and walted for the cuten delogatica. da 1t kegan to

poes they, they ralred the banner

they had esce at the claus

Kuril for the cubans in the proceselon to dee. & pollcesen case

to the scene, however, and ureed thes to get dons fros the top

of the car where they had teen displayine their barner, ené he

too% the le the police etation where their pessporte vere lneree

mised and their beanst taken em

away.

chort interrezation kae cade

as to their conduct.

wAter thiegEoloyranand/roch.venthoutoddestbe.Cuban-FestyaAan

¿elegation's quartere and took sone plctures; cererel. tires they

whoa

•addreesed Cuban delegater/they met. In town. In the afterroon of

1 hug Ea, they left roch's quarters for a drive in the eRIe lolke-

lagen, and at 1930 hours wore driving along hleisanderinketu to-

varde. Unsoriakatu. At the intereection of these tho etreete,

they had a collieion tith a police car coming fron the left erd

the car they tere drlving custained sone body dscage...

Following the accident eloyra dend Xoch vere hold et the

to

Critinal Follce Department for reasone unknownd her.

Eefogra had In his posession (without a licapon- bearing Ter

I11) & Sparish-nade 32-callter Star pletol, nurser 612843. He

eld that he had gotten 1t, as had the other cubar refugees, fro=

the cuban refugee organizatióne in the USA. Lecause such a per

Dit 1n the USA l8 not required to te on one's persen, Eelogra

did not bare one with hin in Finland, although be doee bare 1t

at bose (61e).

Felogra declared that le le learing Finland today for bore

In the tsa via steden by plese.

77+

T+29644007608

---

## Page 7

1d-0n0d

cruce he carinot read the text hisself, he refured to elen the

Finnish-lerguage copy.

ircheleicr and hitness present.

macherin

G024244-72694

---

## Page 8

+ 70

7-7-7-7

effendent John/roch, tailed states eublect and ciliasa of

Cuto, declared that Rhe ves tOrO On 19 :ar 1940 10 FETESTE, DE

the lezal chile er indies socter enziect tiersen toch, vorting there,

ana bie Cuban life. lion iohn roch lives at 2027 South Feet 121h

renue, "laul, floride. Se had lited in lerenne (where be vae

Aticilse lo be an electrical entineer) troa the tire or bie tirth

int1l 1: Jun 10, Oiher te End bis parente vere forced to leare

sue and Bo

In the USa loch telenged to the name Curen etudent orgeal

studled at the sare

Diversity In cube..

after going to haerica, lock hed not chance

to continue his studiee. Se got a job as a salescan for e etcel

oospany•

Toch anhmpar lelrated in the Cuben studert organiza-

zetlone activits with the sane intent zelorra had. Loch began

to ete preparatlone for the trip to finlend for the Corunist

countries! Festival. He had eaved ebout $500.00 and hed gotten.

atout $700.00 fros bie parente and friende mand thue vas able to

purchace the necessary tierets. This coney euifices, end Koch

st112 kas $150.00 in bie poseession.

Soch left Few York on 25 Jul 62, couing to Finland tie

Katrun and Stochole bi air en 27 Jul 62 (eic). He had net bie

silen Eclogra In Stocktol, datinda hero sta bin. Soch took a

500n at the flaus Eurt1 foiel and fros there, due to a roos chortege,

had to sore on 31 jul 62 to the forel Ferho. Loch told the ease

stors that telosta did concerning the rest of the retier.

Loch woe triving the folkeragen which he bad borrored.

---

## Page 9

td-innod

tangätärile inegi

Eoiyniaetofieant

EE-85

a Sparinh-zado 32-cEllter Lle=a plelo1, nunter 255723. Fe ¿01e

the sa-e rtory de ieloyra cle in thle respect, t00.

Ioch has pala sor the theci he end relosra tcoa sro= tbe

forzer'e toos dt tLe ilque furk' joiel to uee es & banner.

Toch urnounced that he is leeving todes for hose in tbe

U'SA via Srecen by zir.

wunaonsntfoch'a.atorg kanstranslated.for.h1n.into inellehiandsbe.cel

clered that ho déuld elen it.

nwpsccanatcteosdoratgecb:

Tranolator:

Kitness:

Interroga:org.

---

