# 104-10310-10103

## Page 1

104-10310-10103

(170,

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TO! AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTEAL | SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORES.

DATE

John Walker, SA/DDO

INITIALS

5

A/58/2000

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

IXFORMATION

PIEFRIE ROPLY

ESCERZERZATION

DETEN.

SEEKTELE

Remarkes

Eceines in 5 17 5-5

John-

Since Shep is on leave, I am sending

you the FBI docs for 3rd agency

coordination. Please hanfle in sane

manner as before.

steve! si

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE MIS

Steve Hunt, Review Staff

UNCLASSIFIED

I CONFIDESTIAL

roM Me 237

Use previous editiers

1-6T

DATE

25 May

SECRET

(40)

File:sse/LA

---

## Page 2

13-90000

Steve

#SK

5/30/26

clinnace fo procage te sse.

ile: undecati

diciiid.

sfit

Ricardo. 3

'X4696

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SAC, Miami (103-171)

REC- 128

Director,

PET. (105-47857) -71

8/7/62

...*

•1

ROLANDO L. CUBELA & SECEDES

IS - CUSA

Eliduriet 7/39/64.

Vith reference to infomation set forth on page tro,

paragraph one, possibility enicts that the alleged plan to 1111

Castro hes some coincction with the nas presently under

investigation by you effice under the caption of "Plans of

Cuban Endles to Assassinate Selccied Cuban Government Leaders,"

you file 105-9055.

Keep-Durezu currently advisce of any idditional

pertinent information receivca concerning subject's activities

and his comectien titl plan lo assassinaie Cascro.

VIN: CL C

(5)

1 • 105-131629 (Plars of Exiles to Assassinate Cuban Leaders)

NOTE:

Subject is Cuban Government official tho has indicated

destre to delect. CIA apparently nace contact with big in

Europe thru Cuban

exile in ley York who is long tine friend of

Miami. Inforrant.

liant informant mas visited by the Cuban exile

who confided thet he had been acting as contect man betreen

CIA 2nd

subject.

According to cuban exile, subject coplaine

to him that. CIA refuses to furnish hin with certain equirzent

with which he could tzke some effective action in Cuba and that

CIA furnishes hin tith bully unserviceble equipnent rather thas

compact equipnent with which he could possibly clininate Castro.

to kill -51

According to Cuban exile there is sone plan hinder

would figure.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Cosper

Callohan

Conrod

"Loach

0105

!?. .:

SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOTE PAGE THO

TAILEO 25

Abs- 716.

. I

Roo:

•5 =

AUG 1'

....

---

