# 104-10181-10011

## Page 1

104-10181-10011

MAlli il. LENtelE dO ClA MEADcairRoes tii

HOUSE SHCE COLTTRE CE ASSacsteooss Stare Aanats

FUE THMA/HU IER/VOLUME:

1201-9755290)

Volume 2

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCNTION:

ROO:1 : -

PCS/LOC

2 D 11.

Third. Agency documents!

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

3:18

18 Sen 7S

DATE

RETURNED

KEVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

P. ORR

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAI

PuoN

AMAUTO-1

VOL II

• NO DOCUMENTS MAY NE COPIED

OR REMOVED FIC: TIS FILE

P 13 ideaue Nadeia ae aBubclslästa

201-935291

---

## Page 2

• END OF VOL II - 31 May 1970

---

## Page 3

i:.

65

1-J9:8

rashes sits

Chin fri

C...

ii:.

..:: 59.9615

O 11:49

WAS

1 FILE, 13

0.10%

10

SECRET ZTIAZTE MAY TO CITE WHIANO 1703

INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMAUTO

REFS: A AH/NIAMI 1651(10085062)

B. DIRECTOR 036576

lizz (110897449)

HAS CONFIRMED FLIGHT RESERVATIONS FOR

29 MAY. HAS BEEN BRIEFED AND UNDERSTANDS

CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS.

. FILE: 201-735296 AND 201-955054.

GP - 1

SECRET

271.091445

(11)

€

NCRORLNED

JUN : 01970

Willis

+43-201-866054

6S COPY

SLOOST

201-235296

287110920

---

## Page 4

sorrayiis

= 4,8

Ut 111133

Lations

CADLE SECHETAHIAT DIERATIO

aristies

2

CLASSIEGO NESSIE.

Mecca:

2

SECRET

CLASSEY TO ES ERE NO..

.7

'I1

€

с лети в

LU H8

FIC:

0551

SECRET 25 1224Z MAY 70

CITa

4177

DIRECTOR INFO USMIAMI

TYPIC AMAUTO

MICROFILNEN

REFS: A. WHINIAN ISSI (4088062

JUN9 1970

B. DIRECTER 23 65 76

DOC. MICRO. SER.

1O PLEASE AVISE WHEN

29 MAY TRAVEL CONFIRMED.

ON ARRIVAL

WILL BE CONTACISO BY SACODER PER

165.

RESERVATION AT HOTEL

CONFIRMED BUT

WODEP IF HE MAY HAVE SOME DIFFICULTY WITH FLIGHT

RESERVATIONS IN VIEW RATHER HEAVY PRE-SEASON TOURIST

TRAFFIC THIS YEAR•

2• FLOREGA FRESENCE

FOR

APPROACH COULD

BE HELPFUL BUT FOT DEEMED ESSENTIAL.

ACCORDINGLY,

SHOULD IT APPEAR DESIRAPLE TO EXTEND CURRENT DEBRIEFING

BEYOND 29 MAY, SUGGEST ME EE ALLOWED REMAIN TO WRAP UP

CASE.

3. FILE 201-735296, 201-856051 GP-1

SECRET

089749

ABan

IN

PS 1120

BX

DES/*FT

06-201-866654

: 01

C

SO GUE

201-235216

35 Ma, 10

---

## Page 5

FLi.

1909117001

5 80y 1970

Qude 26

Report lio. 314

marco-enters the ofrice. Fin

happened last naht atl

alrport sion the plane arrived

1842586.8.ig

that he thinks he really hurt one of them quite badly around

the face and head. Everyone was covered with blood.

A roman and a man come into the office and talk about the

Incident (above) also.

It seems that the course

and on to

to take a course there:

She says

going to maintain hery

Satact. here

says that

they too are members,

relations that it is a month and a half since they have had

a group necting.

He says that the work that they are doing

makes it difficult to carry on the Party life, but that never

cheless it 1s necessary to have group meetings to aircuse tho

bus every day.

n a student residence, and cornut

conomical focher and she would have nore contact with th

other students. She says that she would ilke to be in

college to get acquainted with the siudents

says she could be vely useful to them with her

student connections, and that wichout Interfering with her

studies une can 2150

be helping

He highly recomends

that she det every thing she can, culturally, during her stay in

He says that for very ruch she has read about museuns

and historical and artistic places it 1s guite differant seeing

them.

asks her to leave her address at the

so that the

President of the lonen's Federation of the Party can take

advantage of her being of use to them in one way

tells her that anything,

that might happen to her to come

the danger that thy wit

their know about It.

He says there 1s

spy on. her or follow her and that

there 1s the possibillty of enomies getting. close to her.

He says that everyone rakes mistakes and that if she does

"now ot onco so that they can prevent the consequence,

and give ner 8oo1 advice.

he comes in with BARREDA and another person.

le has been out of the office for a long time At abost 2130 an

ne has to rice to the Deput: Secretaryo? Foreign Relations-?

about the incident atl

that the brechaia be the narce.

He 1s going to point out

were provoked by the others

+3839-26268-5

212.70.92 A770

---

## Page 6

1.

111

1601099

LOITION

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIOR

• CLASSIFICO MESAGE

I SECRET:

(then, F

sands 6000400.0-76

20

HOUTING AND ON INITIALS. g

0 116

cresce es0.

Disaro.

Oio.i8o

¡ДЕРНОДі

Dira

C ro

CHASANO TO CS PRE-NO.

KARE TO CRORE NO.

DASTURi TO

SHANEN

WHO

• 29%

E FILE, VE

SE CRE : 221222Z MAY TO CITE

WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECIOR

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF:

WHAT 7651 (N088062)

HAS RESERVATION AT HOTEL

12 HAN: 0885198

IP

JICROFILMED

BEGINNING 30 MAY. ON ARRIVAUNg 1970

SHOULD TAKE TAXI DIRECTLY TO HOTEL WHÉRE SACEDOC. MICRO. SER

USING ALIAS

WILL CONTACT AT 170E HOURS,

30 MAY. IN EVENT OF EMERGENCY

SHOULD CALL

WHILE WAITING FOR SACODER'S VISIT

AS X

SHOULD ARRANGE FOR SEPARATE TOURS OF

FOR 1, 2 AND

JUNE. THIS NECESSARY TO SUPPORT STORY AS WELL AS

FOR|

_TO HAVE LITERATURE ON HIS PERSON WHEN MAKES

CONTACT WITH AMAUTO- 10

: "2. THANKS FOR FINE SUPPORT.

3. FILE 201-735296 AND 201-866054.

GP - 1

SECRET

25 102

155

1-201-866054

GS COPY

SECRET

201-735296

22 mayro

---

## Page 7

9:15.

8.41:

CAF:

вт..

CONFi

'ischen %

C!::

T-10

214061070_

file

Drie no

FILE. YR.

Teresulication)

SICHET

25 103270

CITE DIRECTOR

Eltel ico number 1022

7

TO

0 3 518 57

TITIE MAUTO

2098 (Ii1 037976)

1.

THAR YOU. NOST USErUL.

2.

FILE: 201-735295.

END CE MESSAGE

C/NI1/CC3)

DO/I/B1

C/DOI%3

bill mel

Willian V. Broe

C/VID

:Feld.

1o9-9610-1

AUTOITATICATINO

01f18-4

FEI-ASIG CIFICER

_CCORO ARE CESICERS

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPACOUCTION BY OTHER MATE 1HE 15021G COOICE 1611011:

---

## Page 8

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION "LASSIFIED N

war 60-7113

GOPIES. 2%.

SECRET

ting fallent

ROUTINO ANDIOR TA: 1I

acostitior

MOVANCE ICE,

CLAIRTY

zel

ACTION

WH-8

870

TO Ca riLÉNO..

/ FILE, VR

B PANCH

KIAN, /EuR-6, CI, CT/ops, CT/DA, FE-2

SECRET LIRIOZE MAY TO CITE WHINIAMI 765

ACTING)

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMAUTO

REFSE A. WA/NIAME 7628 (IN O87031)

5. WH/ILANT 7633 (INO8193)

T088062

c.

11151 (IN087675)

MICROFILMED

JUN 1 2 1970

HAS BEEN INSTRUCIED TO MAKE RESERVAT TON

ON

DOC, MICRO. SEB

FLIGHT

ON 29 MAY•

THOUPOUGHLY UNDERSTANDS FOLLOWING COVER

2.

FOR TRIP:

AO WIEN WIFE PASSED AWAY, WAS BROKEN UP AND

STILL NOT COMPLETELY RECOVERED. DECIDED TRIP TO

ZUROPE WOULD HELP. FORGET.

B. SAW "JULIUS" LAST YEAR AT

HOLLYWOOD

DELICATESSEN.

WHO HEARD AMAUTO-I HAD BEEN

KILLED, WAS TOLD BY "JULIUS" OF AMAUTO-L'S CURRENT

POSITION

THEREFORE, LOOKING

UP AMAUTO-? FOR AULD IIMES SAKE.

3. IF CONTACT ESTABLISHED,

FOLLOW THESE LINES WITH AMAUTO-I8

INSTRUCTED TO

+3-161-866054

SE CRYT

21 Miny 20

261735246

---

## Page 9

CABLE SECRETARY DISCELINATIOR

"DEROR INT

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPiES

SECRET I

GASLEi

AMBlE SOO

ROTTRO

ROUTING ANDICA INITIALS SETE 8Y

ORERO ASTURNTO

ACTION THI

FILE, VR

ACT% No.

PAGE = US/MIAMI 16S I SECRET

A. RELIVE OLD DAYS AND TRY TO REKINDLE OLD

SPARK. MENTION HOW GOOD

THINGS ARE IN STATES AND

OFPORTUNITIES EXISTING.

B..

IN LOW KEY, SOUND HIM OUT ON FEELINGS

TOWARDS STATES, ALTHUG, REGIME, FUTURE; AND FAMILY.

C.. SET UP CHANNEL OF COMNUNICAIIONS FOR FUTURE,

USING

HOME ADDRESS. AT SANE TIME, ATTEMPT

TO OBTAIN ADDRESS TO WHICH HE COULD WRITE AMAUTO- 1.

UNDERSIANDS THESE SASIC INSTRUCTIONS AND

CONCURS IN THEIR LOGIC. HE STATED WILLINGNESS TO

APPLY THEM IN EVENTUAL MEETING WIIH AMAUTO-1. ANY MORE

COMPLICATED INSTRUCTIONS WOULD TEND TO CONFUSE AND •

POSSIBLY ALIENATE

AT THIS TIME. THIS ALSO

ALLOWS

CONFUSING

5.

ANY OPTIONS. IT. MAY WANT TO USE WITHOUT

INDICATED "JULIUS" WAS

DURING 195 C'S WHEN AMAUTO-I WORKED

FOR

LJULIUS" ALSO WORKED AND WAS FRIEND OF AMAUTO-1.

"JULIUS" RESIDES SOMEWHERE

IS MARRIED, AND

HAS -CHADREN.

SER+T

HAS

---

## Page 10

CABLE SECRETARiAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON IT

ROUTING AUDION MITIALS. SEIN BE

- 73

D 8556-

ACTEN

SECRET

DEPOSSUCRION OR THIS ECOL

Ores Dru

CLASSIFY TO CO FRENO.

MHEN TO CS FRENO. -

OPENS

FILE, VR

PAGE 3 AFARIAMI TESI SECRET

NOT SEES SINCE CHANCE ENCOUNTER ABOUT YEAR AGO.

60 FLS PROVIDE HOTEL AND CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS.

WILL ACCEPT ANYONE WHO MENTIONS

...

FILE: 231-735296 AID 201-866854. GP-1

SECR

E T

---

## Page 11

i74-00000

•E SECRETARIT SISSSUIATION

CLINGFIE

17550

2.M8SSAT

1520178

1.0y

• 1750

1oLÄ:

Dres

CLASPY TO CS FRAMO.

D FILE RO

O Fits, val

ALAN

320|

ACclinadsEre: 18151-69-368808

PAZ.

D04, FURA FI2, CIORS:

2398

ACD

SECRET

211505Z MAY 70 CITE

PRICRITY DIRECIOR INFO WE/MIAMI,

TYPIC ArAUTO

Far:

DIRECTOR 035471

CT

CONTACTED SUBJ REF (SUSU UNDER SUITABLE PRETEXT

EVERING 23 MAY.

SUBJ LIVING AT REF ADDRESS WITH GNS

2.

NEITHER SUBJ. NOR

UNDERSTAND ENGLISH, SPEAK ONLY FEW

ENGLISH PHRASES. SUBJ SOLVED LANGUAGE BARRIER BY ASKINO

ENGLISH SPEAXING NEIGHBOR TO INTERPRET.

WHILE SUSJ CALLING NEIGK

30R, FOOMMATE

MANAGID TELL

SUBJ SUFFERING FROM SEVERE

NERVOUS. CONDITION,

HAD UNDERGONE ELECIRO SHOCK TREATENS APPROX

YEAR AGO.

NOTICED SORE NERVOUSNESS. OH PART OF SUSU, SUT

THOUGET PROSABLY DUS INITIAL UNCERTAINTY

RUSFINOLI CONTACTING HIM.

3. SUBJ IS

APPRON S°6" TALL, WEIGHS 130-135 LBS.

RAS SEEIDER SUILD ALTHO SHALL PAULICHO FACE OVAL SCAPED, COMPLEXION

SLIGHTLY SLEMISHED. AQUILINE NOSE.

SiS SLACK HAIR, CUT AT AVERAGE

LENGIE. CHO SIDEBURNS, ETO SUSU HAS VERY BOYISH APPEARANCE,

COULE ENSILY PASS AS PERSON 21-22 YEMRS OLD ALTHO HE CLAIRS TO 3E 29.

NO OVERT HOROSEXUAL TENDENCIES NOTEO.

CS COPY

22

201-23.5746

2/4110y70

---

## Page 12

14-00000

CLISSIFICO NESSICE

SECRET

in 067776

PAGE

PAGE 2

2295

SECRET

SUES NEVER SAPLOYED SINCE ARRIVING

APPLIED FOR SEVERAL

#jass.

ACCORDISG TO

TO MIS MESS CONSISTE

5.: FILE:

201-735296.

GP 1

SECRET

ALTHO HAS

SUBJ DENIED WORK DUE

:- 5ECR51

---

## Page 13

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISCENINATISA

Garries

CLASSiFIO MESSIGE

Cater. Fuic" in!

Cies

BOUT TO ARO IH?1AL3-98240:

0 v: -

EaCH 801.

ACTIOn

285)

1940

PRACADENCE

ORE TO

O-5-910

SECRET 211235E MAY 7E CITE

KiST

PRIORITY WH/MIAMI, DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: A. DIRECTOR 035742

8. WH/MIAMI 1628(0N 087021)

1. PLEASED WITH APPEARASCE OF "JULIAS" INTO OPS

PICTURE. WE ARE NOX

PREPARED TO IMPLEMENT APPROACH TO

AMAUTO-i USING

MOWEVER REF B. HIGHLIGHTS AN

IMPORTANT ASPECT

OF

CHARACTER WHICH COULD HAVE

AN ADVERSE AFFECT ON THE SUCCESS OF THE OPERATION.

BEFORE PROVIDING CONTACT IRSTRUCTIONS NEED CLEAR INDI

CATION. THAT

ALTHOUGY DOING FAVOR FOR HIS GOVI,

WILLING AND ABLE FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS.

HE MUST UNDERSTAND

THAT HIS MISSION

IS TO OBTAIN ASSESSMENT OF

AMAUTO-1 AND THROUGH RENEVAL OF OLD FRIENDSHIP TO OPEN

CHANNEL TO AMAUTO-I SHOULD THE LATTER EVER NEED A FRIEND

IN THE U.S. ALSO THAT HE CANNOT RPT CANNOT EXPRESS OR

IMPLY TO AMAUTO-I THAT VISIT

JAS AT THE SEREST

OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENI OR JALANCE. WITH THIS ASSURANCE

•SEE NO REASON NOT TO PROCEED VITH OP. CN OTHER MAND

CS:7

SECRET

2I MAr. 087675

2i-135216

Tig ???

---

## Page 14

CADLE SECRETADIAT DISSENIRATION

: BOURS

CLASSIFIEO MESSIGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET ...

(when Filled In)

0.48

ROUTINO ANDIOR INITIALI-SEEM JE

ICON UTT

AE: ON NA

FILE, VR

PAGE 2

1151. SECRET

IF HE NOT WILLING OR ABLE COMPLY WITH THESE GUIDELINES,

= THEN OPERATION NOT LIKELY ACHIEVE OBJECTIVES AND. MIGHT

CAUSE EMBARRASSMENT TO ALL CONCERNED.

2. WELCOME ANY WH/MIAMI CHANGES IN SCENARIO,

OTHERWISE STATION WILL PROCEED AS PREVIOUSLY NOTED.

3. FILE 201-735296.: GP-1

SECRET

SECH FI

---

## Page 15

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

FERNS JAT MOTIPTED

TO MESSAGE

" TORAL COPES

Cogen Filed al

AUCTION. DE

O so

SLASHION TO CA PREDO.

SANE TO CO FLINO

30

ADUTIO AND 07 INITIALS 281N#T

wit

CAr.

1920

CHASEN DI

7

ACTION

LUH 8

ACTON

1093

PRECEDENCL

FILE, IS

FIZ

20MAr, 087093

SECRET ZOISASE MAY TO CITE WH/MIAMI (7633

ACTING)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF

WH/MIAMI. 7628

(087031)

COSTACTED MID-DAY 20 MAY. HE HAS SHOIS,

NEW PASSPORT, AND READY TO TRAVEL.

MENTIONED

TENTATIVE DATE OF 29 MAY VIA

2. WHEN QUESTIONED ON MUTUAL FRIEND WHO COULD

HAVE TOLD HIM OF ACAUTO-I POSITION

SAID HE TALKED IC "JULIAS" FROM OLD DAYS ABOUT ONE

YEAR AGO, "JULIAS" WORKED IN GROCERY STÖRE WITH AMAUTO-I

AND CURRENTLY RESIDES IN MIAMI

AREA

CANNOT FURTHER IDENTIFY. APPEARS WE CAN INVOKE

"JULIAS" AS COVER STORY FOR CONTACT, RATHER THAN PURSUE

1: 4

DECKED

EF

2: 4/0/01

LEAD.

3. FILE: 201-735296 AND 281-866854. GP-I

SECRET

MICROFILMED

JUN 9 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

p-20-166651

AS COPY

SECRET

201-235216

20 Try 70

---

## Page 16

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATiON

FEARS URT POTIPIES

sor arce coo, issues

.C..

SiR. ASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL GOPIÉS DIES

SECRET

ROUTINS ANDIOTA: NITIALS-SEE

ACTION

1840

CLASSY TO CO FRE NO.

INEP TO CA FILENO.

BILE HID

D RETURN TO

BRANCH

FILE; VR RIAN, ENRI, E1, C1|OPS, CIOA, FIZ

WHt 8

690

SECRET 201805Z MAY TO CITE WH/MIAMI/T628

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMAUTO

REFS® A.

Tisi: (u 085999)

B. DIRECIOR 035471

C. DIRECTOR 035482

MICRÖFILMED

JUN 9. 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

D. DIRECTOR 835499

1. REFS B THRU D APPEAR TO BE CONTRADICTORY.

ACTING)

20 MAx . 0 87021

2P

8

PLEASE ADVISE...

2• IN ANY EVENT,

HAS ALREADY BEEN BRIEFED

ALONG LINES OF DIRECTOR 033355. DO NOT BELIEVE BRIEFING

ON COMPLICATED SENARIO WOULD BE PRODUCTIVE, AS

IS SIMPLE MAN, MAS SOMEWHAT VOLATILE PERSONALITY, AND

NOT TRAINED INTEL OPERATIVE. HE IS IN EWVECT DOING

FAVOR FOR HIS GOVERNMENT AND IS NOT A RECRUITED ASSET

WHO HAS BEEN TRAINED TO FOLLOW DIRECTIONS. IN ADDITION,

WINT

IS pio)

BE A

EL

HE APPEARS TO BE RATHER NAIVE AS FAR AS INTEL OPS ARE

CONCERNED. CAS EXAMPLE, WHEN

APPLIED FOR PASSPORT,

EXPECTED RED CARPET TREATMENT.

DESCRIBED PASSPORT

OFFICIAL AS "MISERABLE SOB" WHO GAVE EVERYONE HARD TIME.

SECRET

iS COPY

2-601-566054

S0i-35296

---

## Page 17

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

13:0:B3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

wheri Filled In)

REPROSUERIOS EE TOIS COPIDOSMOEES

CLASARY TO ES FARMS. -

O ME DO O ASTURN TO .

HOUTING ANONOR MO-LALS-SE IN T

MAhad 119

= TIDER. L7918

= TION NO

FILE, VR

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI. 7628 SECRET

TOLD HIM FOR SECURIY REASONS. PASSPORT PEOPLE

NOT ADVISED

ROLE IN AMAUTO CASE. ALSO, BELIEVE

ANY PREARRANGED PLAN COULD MOST EASILY GO AWRY GIVEN

CIRCUMSTANCES OF AMAUTO CASE.

3.. SUGGEST

BRIEFING OF

REMAIN SIMPLE

AND UNCOMPLICATED. THIS WILL ALLOW

CASE OFFICER

• TO PERSONALLY ASSESS

ANT TAILOR OPERATIONAL

DIRECTION TO

AND OPERATIONAL CLIMATE

IN SUMMARY, GIVEN. TIME ELEMÈNT AND OUR ASSESSMENT

WE FEEL CONTACT BETWEEN

AND AMAUTO-I AT THIS

STAGE SHOULD BE AIMED AT UP-TO-DATE ÄSSESSMENT. OF LATTER:

AND POSSIBLE ESTABLISHMENT COMMO CHANNEL TO FREE WORLD•

4. FILE: 281-735296 AND 201-865854. GP-I:

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 18

14-00000

•= ?:

.•;:

C/:::/003/OPS

2-1325

20. 113.1970

MILL ELEPLIANIS DISSEDiCATICIA

_PER.

Diners

IT FILE IN ES FILE PO.

CI9 INDEX

[JEETURN TO _

- BRANCH

DIRERO

29.21

(elice).

(resenco number)

CITE INTO 5742

(DiCS)

SECRET

• T WH/MINT INTO:

TIPIC ANAUTO

REFS:

A.

1131 (IN 035999)

B. DIRECTC: 035471

C. DIRECTC? 035432

MICROFILMED

D. DIRSCIO?

035199

JUN 5

1970

E. WII

(IN 057021)

DOC. MICRO. SER.

1. BELLEVE CONTRADICCION CITED PEE E IS OULY APARENT.

GITCHOLCGICAL ORDER (HOT NUERICAL ORDER) OF OTHER REES VAS

D, A, B, AiD C. TILT IS, REN D, PRITIES FIRST, ICOX BASIC

POSITION TILT

TECT TO BE CONSIDERED FOR APPROICH THEN SE

ILAD

FOR THAT PURFOSE, THIS IOSITION OBTAINS. REFS B

AND C WERE ONLY IN RESPONSE TO REF A SUGGESTION THAT KUCILEDGE

0r

ON

PART WOULD LUILD UP CREDIBLE

STORY

TO A'MUTO-1.

THIS DOES NOT MEN AND USE OFL

REES B AND

C WORE SENT PRIORITY AND TIUS GOT LOVER NUMBERS THAN REF D

2: DEPER TO ADDEES ON SCENARIO.

CONTINUED

3 201-84-1-054

RELEASING OFFICER

CS COPY

COSPOINATIEE OFFICERS

S-E-C-R-I-T

aricup"i

REPRODUCTION GY OTHCR. THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-2359113

20-710.

OFFICER

copy Ha.

---

## Page 19

DE RATES - 310 0F

ParaL pois

' Г*

SLE SECREFARIST DISSESINATION

deft

L':

Ti, it

D'INODI

DI FILE IN ES FILE NO.

-- IRANCH

CIFILE RIO

01

FILE. VA,

Telassircation

SECRET PAGE TWO

RID/ EDI

(edie and time died)

3. FILE: 201-735296 AND 201-866054.

END OF. MESSAGE

felitel

• lesterenco numoor: (otca)

CITE DIRECTOR 0 35.7.42-

7

7

0L6L NIP 6 I

А СТЕ/IB

W1ll1em V. Broe

C/VAD

RELEASING OFFICER

c/vm/CoG

COORDIMATINIG CFFICERS

Eected a spare

: S-E-C-?-E-?

REPRODUCT,..' BY OTHER MAN THE ISSUG OFFICE A. 'SCHICIED

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

COPY NO

---

## Page 20

•109

18d9

T:

""E:

JNF:

COG/O1S

R1519

19

MAY 1970

••ee6.90ten

1111. 800:20001

SE. CROET:

DINOrE

O NO INOIS

O FILE IN CS TILE NO. -

MANCH

(classrlication)

SECRET

"data and time piled)

19 23 19 2H70

- {*21R0l.

(rataronio numberl

ciTE Dilt ro.5 4 9 9

AN UP!

7

TYPIC-AMAUTO

REFS: A. WH/MIAMI 7595 (IN 085178)

B. DIRECTOR 033355

1: DUE LICK OF INFO MENTIONED REF A, PLUS SHORT TIMS

DO NOT RPT NOT BELIEVE

AMAUTO-1 SCHEDULED RELIN

LEAD HORTI PURSUIT. APRECIATE WORK DONE ANYHOW.

2. HIQS BELIEVES

APPROACH NEITTOVED REF B OUR OYLY

GOOD POSSIBILITY VIEW TIME LIMITATIONS.

WHEN

VIESiS ON

AND

CAY ARRINGE TRAVEL.

SCENARIO RECEIVED,

3.

FILE 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

WIL/COG/COMMENT:

Ref A mentioned location of distant cousin of

ASNUTO-1, current recruitment target.

Ref B

urged field to consider sending forner employer

Of AMAUTO-1

for "chance confrontation;

WILLIAN V. BROE

C/WIID

¿cEUR/IB

C/NIl/COG

CBOPOPATHO

/ 47a, 70

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

SECRET

REPECDUCTION BY OTHER 11AM TIE ISSUING CAFICE IS FRO: HSITED.

281-735286

---

## Page 21

and code a it

SECRET

Mir C/::/CCS/OYS

E:T:

1325

Sal-19iL1570

CABLE SICÄLTARIA DISSERINATICN

BY.

3,

_ PER.

CCAF

DJ INODE.

I FILE ME ES FILE NO.

(otite)

(cretence number)

Tesssitication)

. SECRET

Tipto and time tici

132 152ШT

INTO PRIORITY WIL/MIAMI

CITE DIRECTOR

035182

TO [PRIONITY

TYPIC ANAUTO

REF :

71131 (IN 035999)

FOR REE INTO SEPARLELY, ENCEPT

1. ASKINS

DELICIE NOT ADVISABLE ASK AIÁUTO-1 CCUSIN ASCUT AMAUTO-1

LOGITION SINCE CUSTN IS NOT SEEN HIS FOR SEVEN YENES AND

HAS BUEN UNDER FSYCHLATRIC IRENTSIT

2.. CO: PLETELY CONCUR REST OF REE.

1.5

3. FILE: 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

7

1C/CUR/IB/S

C/EUs/FI/CI

ACLLASING OFFICER

&s COPY

COORDINITING OFFICERS

SF.CRET

recludes mira patematic

rain; orid

REPRODUCTION CY OTICR THATO THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FAOIILITED

147144%

UTHERT CATIN

OFFICER

copy no.

---

## Page 22

Gir.

C/:::/CCG/OPS

1325

-15:90170

CARIE SISHNTAGIAS DISCIVINATiON

.:e,

ET .

- PER

['1 FILE IN ES FILE A

-SECRET:

PRICRITY

19:22

232 lar 70

CITE DIRECTOR

TO ROUTINE VUMENIO 3 5 47 !

TYRIC ANAUTO

CCCURITION O3

1. PLS DETERMINE ASAP FIRSICAL DESCRIFTICN AND

VECTT

APPALENTLY. NO TELECKONE.

IT EARLY MARCH.

2. FILE: 201-735296.

THE D

FI

END OF MESSAGE

WII CODENT: Based onl

1131 (IN 035099) request that

access agent of Wil

be given such taroractich ebout SiStect

as possible for sake of approaci tol

target

ChiD

* c/no/I/B1

RELEASING OFFICER

IS COPY

CCORDINATING OFFICERS

SEGRET

PErROCUCTION CY OTHER TRAG THE ISOUING CAFICE IS PROHIBITED

C/WH/CCG

Cci- 2350%6

•70

IUTHE TCATING

CFFICER

CoPy na

---

## Page 23

J CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

*CLASSIFIED MESSAGE. O

TOTAL COMES " "S

POUTINO ANBIOR INITIALS

¿ PERSPO DAT MOTIMES

SECRET •

(When Fillen Ins

AMANCE CERT

OUCHION OP THIS COP

Dro

CLASSRO TO CO FRE NO.

MASO TO CAFTANO

PRE DO J AETURN TO

BRANCH

WHS

54₴

FILE, VR

BilaN, EUR La, DDP, ADDP, CI, CILORS, CIlOR, FIZ

SE CRET: 191224Z MAY 70 CITE

1131.

TGMAylNO85999

DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: DIRECIOR 853355

WE BELIEVE THAT CHANCE ENCOUNTER WITH AMAUTO-I

ALONE TOO DIFFICULT TO ARRANGE SINCE AMAUTO- I IS

FREQUENTLY IN COMPANY SOMEONE FROM HIS STAFF OR HAVING

LUNCH VITH

OFFICIALS OR BUSINESSMENT. MOREOVER,

ENCOUNTER UNDER THIS SITUATION, WE FEEL, WOULD NOT PERMIT

RELAXED EXCHANGE BETWEEN SAMKO AND AMAUTO-1. WE WOULD.

LIKE TO SUGGEST FOLLOWING ALTERNATIVE!

A. ON ARRIVAL

FRIDAY

WOULD GO DIRECTLY

TO HOTEL OF STATION SELECTION.

STATION OFFICER WILL ALSO

OCCUPY HOTEL IN ALIAS AND INITIAL CONTACT WITH

WILL

BE MADE IN HOTEL.

CINCIDENTALLY, BELIEVE NO NEED

ACCOMPANY

Bo EARLY SUNDAY AFTERNOON

• TO AMAUTO-I'S PRIVATE RESIDENCE.

THAT. HE YOULD HAVE GONE TO

WOULD GO DIRECTLY

HIS EXCUSE WILL BE

BUT HAS CERTAIN THAT

43X

DES

FI

AS COPY

SECRET

19 may 70

+01-7235246

---

## Page 24

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

FERTILE SOTIO

AGVANCE GOET

ISSUED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES

•OUTERS AND ON INITIALS BEENBE

151

i g

A:.

CLAIRYTO

CB FRE NO.

SAEE TO ERFLENO.

DISSEN DE.

ACTICA UNIT

ACTION NO.

PAGE

FILE, VR

2l

131 SECRET

WOLLD BE CLOSED. IN ADDITION, SINCE

SCHEDULED TOUR OF

AND SUBURBS LEAVING EARLY.

MONDAY MORNING DECIDED MAKE EFFORT CONTACT AMAUTO- 1.

AT HOME RATTER THAN POSSIBLY MISS OPPORTUNITY TO SEE HIM.

WILL, BE INSTRUCTED TO SIGN UP FOR TOUR OF CITY

TO LEND AUTHENTICITY TO STORY.JL

_ WILL HAVE TO

BE PREPARED REPLY TO INEVITABLE QUESTION FROM AMAUTO-18

HOM DID YOU FIND MY ADDRESS?

REPLY WOULD BE

•THAT HE OBTAINED ADDRESS FROM

EMPLOYEE AT AIRPORT

WHO SPENT CONSIDERABLE TIME TRYING TO LOCATE AMAUTOR!

RESIDENCE•

CADDRESS APPEARS

OVERTLY.)

WOULD FURTHER EXPLAIN, IF NECESSARY,

THAT HE DID

HOT KNOW HOW EMPLOYEE GOT ADDRESS, BUT KNOWS

SHE MADE NUABER OF TELEPHONE CALLS. WE CANNOT PREDICT

AMAUTO-L'S REACTION TO THIS DIRECT APPROACH. ME MIGHT

CLAIM PRESS OF BUSINESS OR OTHER COMMITMENTS THEREBY

REFUSING SEE

IN HOME BUT MIGHT SUGGEST THAT SAMNO

VISIT

MONDAY MORNING.

SHOULD BE PREPARED

TO SAY THAT IF THIS WOULD NOT EMBARRASS AMAUTO-I NE

WOULD GLADLY CANCEL TOUR AND GO.

TO USE STANDARD LINE

ЗÉCRET:

---

## Page 25

VI CABLE SECRETARIATE SSENINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE »

TEEN LOT NOTARO

JOTA: COPIES Ma

BITANCE COPY

SECRET

Nato do

HEPHOCUETICH ON THIS COPY BOTH RITES

O is

0 NO

CLARITY PO COOLE NO.

AOUTINO ANDITA INITIALS. BEEN AY

CIRSAN DY

TE ?ID% UNTI

MILE DO

FILE, VR

SC FION NO.

PAGE

3

1I31 SECRET

THAT BECAUSE HE IS AMERICAN HE SHOULD NOT VISIT PBRUMEN

WOULD, WE FEEL, QUICKLY AROUSE AMAUTO-I'S

SUSPICION®

APPROACH TO AMAUTO! RESIDENCE CAN

BE MONITORED FROM HOMES OF TWO STAFFERS WHO LIVE WITHIN

EYSHOT OF AMAUTO- 1'S RESIDENCE.

Co

AMAUTO-I'S PROBABLE SECOND QUESTION: HOW DID

XNOW HE WAS IN

REQUIRES MORE THOUGHT AND

HELP FROM

IDEALLY

SHOULD BE ABLE SAY THAT

A MUTUAL FRIEND OF BOTH AMAUTO-! AND

WERE TOGETHER

RECENTLY

AND AMAUTO-I'S. NAME MENTIONED.

ASKED WHAT HAPPENED TO AMAUTO-I AND FRIEND DISCLOSED

AMAUTO-I NOW

(SUBJECT WH

MIGHT BE APPROPRIATE "FRIEND". WHO SE

NAME

MIGHT

USE. STATION SUGGESTS THAT CONTACT BE MADE WITH SUBJECT

TO DETERMINE WHETHER HE KNOWS WHERE

AMAUTO-1 IS. ALSO OBTAIN PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION, OCCUPATION

AND PRIOR JOB

PLUS OTHER NOTABLE

CHARACTERISTICS WHICH COULD BE USED AS FILLER BY

TO SHOW THAT POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP EXISTED BETWEEN

AMAUTO-I'S COUSIN AND

IN ADDITON, SUGGEST

1085476)

7595

-...

SECRET

236 046-

---

## Page 26

•CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ORESTAT 9E-9S

ADANCE COOT

"CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(When F.lied In)

TOTAL COPIES

AOU TIMO ANDION INITIALS. SIEN DE

• INSERi

terare to ca in dio.

10 Mus no

DIDA DY

ACTION CRI

AC?09%0.

PAGF.

FILE, VR

1131 SECRET

RE-CONTACT

TO ASCERTAIN NAMES Of PERSONS

IN UNITED STATES WHO KNEW AMAUTO-I AND FROM WHOM

OSTENSIBLY MIGHT HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION OF AMAUTO-1'S

ASSIGNSENT. WELCOME OTHER SUGGESTIONS AS REPLY

TO ABOVE QUESTION®

2. LINEL

WOULD TAKE AFTER FOOT IN DOOR SHOULD

BE I HOROUGHLY REHEARSED

BEFORE ARRIVAL

BECAUSE OF QI- ELEMENTA

SHOUL

CABLE WHAT SPECIFIC

INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN TO

SO THAT SIATION OFFICER

COMPLETELY AVARE OF HOW

IS TO CONDUCT HIMSELF.

3. IN VIEW DESIRE TO INITIATE CONTACT BEFORE AMAUTO-l'S

JUNE DEPARTURE SUGGEST CONTACI ABOVE PERSONS ASAP®

4. FILE 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

# WILL SUE LIPON REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 27

CLASSIFICATION

C:."

TRISSMITAL

IDES INFOANANTIOY ALIORT

1i 17115

!..G

SECRET

lason Poros le

067

CL 5, CA/PIG. CA/PROP. CI/OPS, CI/IS 2. CS/DO

109. F00-E1/D. 10, EURS

Del DeeDin

, 1200

TDCSDB-315/02487-70

PRECEDENCE

SATE DIGRALDED

Is als 1970

X I ROUTINE

DiSSiMINATION

BASED ON 1069.128-PIOUN

1

F7IB/R13

TPANA 4:

1OS:-10026/5ADR 1069

PADRI 1

QUKETCH722

(IN 079701)

WA/DEX11

JBADR-1100 (IN 0S2937)

1/510.1

LE/R

QUSEQUIN/QUDOZE

Liaison:

111:

ili

65*

RAG.

AEMY

MANELSE

C

10:15

NAVY

ropsicla spare, bier alachricol addiasseen.)

AIR

RECOMMEND EXO

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

CONTROLLED DISSES

BASIC COCUMENT NOT

MADE AVAILABLE CCI

B3

FELA! CABIE ATTACHED

ISNOW IN

WH/MIAMI

W

DISSEA ELECTRICALLY

(CORRECTION TAPE USED)

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

US:S FERSONAL ATTN

IRYTANDO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LIAISON

AUTH

C/ 51/COS/BR

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

¡vican Piciod la:

C9:M 1K-2 ESE BEEVIOUS EDITIONS

XIX AS RELAY

INTERNAL OSE ONCE -1

COORDINATING OFFICERS)

E/IB/R

RELEASING OFFICER

C/WH/R

COPY NO.

+13-30-66-10

---

## Page 28

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECR

ET YO FOREICY DISSEX/CONTROLLED DISSEM

••_"

---

## Page 32

fasteris

C

• I

C

0 4391

C

C

• 1

C

SECRET ISIEZIZ MAY TO CITE WHINIANI TOSS.

DISESTON

iNFO

TYPIC AYAUTO

DEF. A.DIRSCTOR 456593

s SIT IN: (4081546)

1.

ALAUTO-I COUSIN,

EARLY MRCH FOM

DEPARTED

NO

C

111

TELEPHONE O ABOVE FROM ASLATIVE OF

WHO DOES NOT KNOW AMAUTO -1.

ZO AS INDICATED LI REF 2, ANOTS DID NOT PREPARE

SURREY ON ALAUTO-I FICH

DECRIEFING, DUS TO LACK

OF 1NF0. ASOVE ADDRESS

FORWARDED IN CASE SQS WISHES TO

FURSUE.

3.

FILE:

251-735296. GP-I

C

5

iS COPY

SECRET

187712270

261-9.35246

---

## Page 33

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

1 PEARS UP DO ITIO

ADVANCE CONT

•CLASSIFIEO MOSCUE,_

•ISTA COPIES

i filist let

ETION COTT ECHI

O iss

D +3

CLABERY TO CBPRENO.

BOL|18 aND IS 101918L9-804#*

12 1

AT:

30

AMEN

WHS

FILE, VR RIAN EURE 52 CLOPS dI CIlICZ

298

DDP ADOP ESDO

SECRET 151724Z MAY TO CITE WHAMIAMI 1570

ACTING)

15% 084149

DIRECTOR,

TYPIC AMAUTO

REFS:

A. DIRECTOR 033355

B. UFAA - 1978

I IN MEETING WITH

ON 14 MAY,

MENTIONED

AS TOURIST TO HOLD CHANCE MEETING

POSSIBLE TRIP

WITH AMAUTO/10

VERY ENTHUSED, FLATTERED HIS GOVERNMENT

NEEDED HIM, AND IN POSITIVE FRAME OF MIND FOR OPERATION.

NO FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS MADE (EXPECT WE WOULD PAY EXPENSES

ON TRIP) AND HE APPEARS TO SE MOTIVATED TO HELP COUNTRY

HAS APPLIED

FOR

AND OLD FRIEND. AT OUR REQUEST,

NEW PASSPORI. INCIDENTALLY, HIS WIFE PASSED AWAY ON

6 NOVEMBER 1969.

2. WE ARE NOW IN POSITION TO DISPATCH

ADVISE WHEN HE IS NEEDED ON AMAUTO/I APPROACH.

3. FILE: 201-735256. GP-1

PLS

SECRET

Ox, let in go. Do you thinh

"chauce,

•"aud

---

## Page 34

295.

CADLE SECEETADIAI DISSE IATIO" -

• SECRET

84C0 24

BOUTINE 19I-1019IIIALISII

2: 988-8 81

2÷52

_25

-----

1118.

829,3

SECRET 121902Z MAY TO CITE WA/MIANI/S 15

DIRECTOR,

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF:

DIRECTOR

83 0893

!?.:

TACTING)

4215?S

OF PARA 3 REF IS COUSING

OF AMAUTO-1. HE WAS GIVEN CI DEBRIEFING BY AMOT IN- 122

ON 24 FEBRUARY.

HAS NOT SEEN AMAUTO-1. SINCE

1963; HAS BEE: RECEIVING PSYCHIATRIC TREATIENT FOR

SEVERAL YEARS, A:D

IS HOMOSEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO

FROM

ANOIS DID NOT PREPARE REPORT ON AMAUTO-1.

2.

WILL HAVE PACHANKIS INTERVIEN FOR ANY POSSIBLE

INFO MISSED BY AMOIS AND ADVISE•

3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-I

SECRET

All itc

*D

So LUPY.

201-255-296

---

## Page 35

19118÷

SECRET

Lif:

in/cobror's

R1819/7111

11 MY 1970

CADLE SICILIALIAT DISSENALATION

71.

_PER

OY--

CONFa

- OMANCY

L] rise mo

I PILE IS ES FILE NO.

Petite?

tricronto numbors

TO

Teasilications

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

12 21 003 Un 70

SIA INFO

033355

TYPIC AUTO

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 030993

B. UrA1-1079

1. VIEN REF B, HOS SANGUINE AGOUT POSSIBILITIES OF "CHANCE"

APPRONCH EY

TO ALIUTO-1. AS REASONABLY WELL OFF RETIRED

PERSON,

COULD NATURALLY CO

AS TOURIST. HQS KONDERS

WHETHER THIS WOULD HOLD WATER UNLESS WIFE ACCONPINIED HIM.

REQUEST

INVESTIGATE THIS POINT.

2. APPROICH BY L

KOULD ALMOST CERTAINLY NOT LEAD TO

RECRUITIENT, BUT WOULD OFFER PERSOVAL READING OF AIUTO-1 BASED

AD

ON WILT

APPEARS TO BE WARM EXTREE PROVIDED BY FONDLY-REMENBEREDIH

PAST ASSOCIATION. IF APPROPRIATE,_

COULD PROVIDE LINK TO

Bor

"OTHER KORID" IN CASE A'AUTO-1 EVER NEEDED HELP. LATTER SCHEDU

TRAVEL

IN JUNE 70 AND RETURN

PRIOR POSTING

JUDGING FROM ANNEDES -1 AND ADELAY-1 CASES, BRIFF RETURN

MIGHT PROVE TURNING POINT IN ANY DECISION TO DEFECT. THEREFORE,.

TOULO BE PRIOR JUNEDEPARTURE.

3.

CON

INUED

RELEASING CITICIA

T& EVENT POSSIBLE SANKO TRAVEL TO

is duty

COOPOMATING OPTICERS

SICKET

CEPISMUCHONLY MINER MR HR ISEUING OFFICE IS PROMENTED.

I WOULD NEED

23.5,286

a Mika 10

decades pen 30990029116

BITICIA

pangramp.

---

## Page 36

WeiGhis: 0218

Wilte

LATO

care

39

SECRET

CHILE SICHLTIHLAR DISSENINATICNI

-PER

TU

Dinora

I NO INORA

Pawn to

CRE COMENO GLOTEOT

- BRAICH

OT FILE NO

FILE. VR.

(classication)

SECRET

Testo ana Time Miety

(alite)

Tralerendo numbers

CITE DIRECTOR

70333567

PAGE TWO

LIST OF PLACES FREQUESTED BY ASNUTO-1 WHERE

"BUMP INTO" HIM. IF

SCENARIO.

WOULD HAVE CHANCE

HAS OTHER IDEAS, VELCOME ALTERNATIVE

1.

FILE:

201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

WIl/CONMENT:

Ref A said Has willing consider use of

ANAUTO-1.

Ref B gave resulls of

to approach

contacts with

112100

WT

While

WILLIAM V. BROE

EUR/IB

ELIFASING OFFICES • La

SCRAT

REPHOOUCTION BY ONCA THAN THE 190KKG CAFICE IS PACHINTED.

C/WI/COO

ALINENTICA PECI

Cory No.

---

## Page 37

8070 10.

UST PREMIUUS

L01710.r

SCCFETARIEI DISSEMISARLOS

s80%.

I

WITH +95(14181415-5EE9

CLASSIFIRO MESSAGE

SECRET

5143

Listen

10:123

1:0

er:

='11590, D'

=ra.

Sar to preme CoPy

Back to ta ap.

WH.8

c 927.

SECRET 121902Z MAY 72 CITE WHAMIAMI 75 15

©

111.

DIRECTOR,

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF:

DIRECTOR: 030393

ACT ING>

12. 0015?0

N

OF PARA 3 REF IS COUSING

OF AMAUTO-I• HE WAS GIVEN CI DEBRIEFING BY AMOTIN- 122 .

ON 24 FEBRUARY.

HAS NOT SEEN AMAUTO-I SINCE

1963, HAS BEEN RECEIVINE PSYCHIAIRIC TREATMENT FOR

SEVERAL YEARS, AND

IS HOMOSEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO

ANOIS DID NOT PREPARE REPORT ON AMAUTO- I.

2• WILL HAVE

INTERVIEW FOR ANY POSSIBLE

INFO MISSED BY AMOTS AND ADVISE•

3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

---

## Page 38

COMPLETEL BY

Mer 18 3 40 PH '70

LACTION COPY

13•a

file

C

C.

439.

SECRET IGIEZIZ MAY TO CITE WHAMIAMI 75S5

DIRECTOR INFO

TYPIC AVAUTO

FEF

A DIRECTOR 458893

5

ACTING)

16. 006:7e

• 1

0

1.

A AUTO-I COUSIN

EARL'S ARCH FOR

DEPALTED

_PRESENT ADDRESS

NO

C

111

TELEPHONE. ABOVE FROM RELATIVE OF

lil

WHO

DOES NOT KNOW AMAUTO-1.

2. AS INDICATED IN REF 3, AMOTS DID NOT PREPARE

SU'ARY ON AMAUTO-! FRiCi

DESRIEFING, DUE TO LACK

OF INFO. ABÖVE ADDRESS FORWARDED IN CASE MOS WISHES TO

FUR SUE .

3. FILE: 261-755296. GP-1

C

C

Ver lack spe

Mellinit.

What yur thanks?

Ous. no entirest

0=0

SEeRCT

---

## Page 39

SUBJECT

- CF.

SECRET

1;8999

falled fas

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFFRENCE

DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT

IDEMPIFICATION

B. DATE PROCESSES

18.

CHOSE BIBENRED TO

RI FILE NO.

DISPATEN OR SOURCE DOC.

P. SOURCE CHYPPONTNTO. DATE OF. INTO.

O. EVALUATION

10- DISSEMIRAPCO PN'

IT. DATE

SECRET DISPOSITION

PRROSFERREO TO

DO GILE

NO.

PESTINENE INFORMATION

UFAOIR

R

70C5190007

FILE N 201-135296

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

19. 68)

---

## Page 40

Fir a 8y

Chief of Station,

Chief of Strtion, Wl/Miani

+033

Chief,

Western Hemisphere Divigion

MANCT

Study.

on

ALTON RIGUERID: PUTRINGIS

Reference: 0SkN-11726

Meis ger 904845

Lour qualisao 011s

MILA UNIS INDIALIE

Forwarded herewith is a completed version by AMEDIT-2 of

the study on

Attachaent:

h/s

Distributton:

3 - Cos,

w/att h/#

2 - COS, WIl/Miami w/att h/w

CROSS REFERENCE 10

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBIR

DATE

8 MAY 1970

AS COPY

(5 May 1970)

AN.

Distribution:

1-

EUR/IB

1

WH/COC/OPS

PS

1

1

WH/COG/Chrotty

RID

1 - Originator

DES I*D

FI

SECE

OffKE

NiH /COG/OPS

OFFICE SYAA5O4

C/WHI/COG

1735296

•pfd

OFiKER'S NAME

NEXT

7111

DAIL

5 Plây "C

0411

AC/EUR/IB

5.3

W88BRETIOUS A01913

DISPATCH

---

## Page 41

1d-0d0d

SUBJICT OF. DOCUMENT

SECRET

1890ro

Follar fay

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IOENTIFICATION

P! FILE NO.

D. DISPATE DA SOURCE DOC.

EYALUATION

DATE PROCESSEO

CROSS REFERRIO TO THIS PILE

TO. DISSERITATED IN

GOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRASSFERDED TO

•I FILE

PERTINENT INFORMATION

11. OATE

R

7005110495

OSM

FILE IN 201-235246

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORW

8 - 97

867

SECRET

---

## Page 42

1948

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISTRINATIO%

1150147 19ing

ASTANCE GET

TOrAL COTES 2.4

SECCET

wag.99.9%

Har 0 104815.70

• (jies.

-AFRICH

WIL 8

E/ FILE, VA

RIAN, EUR6, 04, 0/025-01/102, 51.21

0.582

SECRET OSIOASZ MAY 70 CITE

1054

DIPECTOP INFO WA/MIAMI

TYPIC AIMEDIA QUOZE

16 FROM QUSE QUIN/ QUDOZE. 6 MAY:

A.

!

: 1

TOLD

_THAT HE

MAY

JAND WIFE SCHEDULED FLY

SAID THAT

FOR WEEK'S

VACATION; EXPECTED RETURN

6 MAY

B.

SAID HE TRAVELING

MID-JUNE FOR A MESTING

FILE 201-811891, 201-7352996, 201-7597010

GP-1

2.

SECRET

Extect for 201's

FILE:

1723 d19-1

1.

SECRET

---

## Page 43

atle Calle

SECHET

23

ROUTING RIOTER PRITIALS - DREAUY

пат.

8.98:

1'4: C:

MiT: COG/OPS

R1$19

MAX 1970

CROLE SECHETARIAT DISSEMINATION

or 35221 PER

COAFT

Lo/&

(classinication)

SECRET.

50

• TYPIC AMAUTO

• INDO

• NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

(dato ond tuna filed)

ZG/TAE73

REF: A. IH/MIAMI 7316 (IN 072939)

B. DIRECTOR 021639

I RETURM TO -

BRABICM

• FILE RiO

(reference number)

(pica).

CITE DIRECTOR

030393

СЙ"

1.

REF A REPRESENTS LEAD TO AUTO-1 WHICH HQS WILLING

THED

PURSUE IF

THINKS WORTIL NILE. ALTHOUGH SABIKO DID NOT

INDICATE RELATIONSHIP WAS VERY DEEP, QUTIMID/QUDOZE TRAFFIC SEEMS

TO INDICATE AMAUTO-1 LOOKED ON SANKO WITH GREAT DEAL NOSTALGIA.

NUCH DEPENDS ON

OTHER PLANS THROUGH SUBJECT REF B (201-866047).

REQUEST STATUS YOUR CONTACT WITH HIM AND PLANS.

2. RECENT REVIEW OF AILAUTO-1 TAPES BY AMEDIT-2 SHOW THAT ,

AMAUTO-I MAINTAINS CONTINUING RELITIONSILIP WITH QUSEQUIN-82.

ANEDIT-2 COMMENTS TIAT QUSEQUIN-82 KNOWS AMAUTO-I PERSONALLY AND

SEES HIM RATHER OFTEN BUT PRESUMABLY IN LINE OF DUTY. HQS INTERESTED

IN NATURE AND EXTENT TIIIS RELATIONSHIP. VIET QUSEQUIN-82 CONSENTS

REPORTED IN OSJLI-23624, ATTICIMENT 1, STATION NIGHT ISE THIS

RELATIONSHIP

WODISTO APPROACHS AMAUTO-1.

201- 2352460°

3./30- REPORT DATED 27 MAR 70 WAS DEBRIEFING

CS Curd

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

GROUP T

- 16;70

Eachute! 1e0e1 Bulgester

UTHENTCATINI

cartonsibillion

OFFICEN

DEDDARIOTIDI MY AT:IF TIAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

COPY NO

---

## Page 44

14-00000

UNIT

r"?.

CArE

7 10 23 AN °70

CALLE SCEREZARIAF DISSEMINATION.

B r.

CONFE

El rice va.

(classificalion)

SECRET

Arsent rense

TOTAL COPICS:

SECRET

We 11

426 PT 70

17. INOCT

O TILE IN ES FILE NO:

PAGE THO

(aa:o and time Mied)

ROUTIG ANDICE MUTILS - SCEN DY

• RETURN TO _

- DRANCH

• FILE RIO

TO

freierene number

CITE DIRECTOR

=6301931

20 JEB 70.

CLIT'S TO BE LNIDENTIFIED CLOSE RELATIVE OF

ANAUTO-1 BUT HAS APIAUTO-1'S HISTORY SONENHAT GARBLED.

ALSO SAYS THAT ONE

DESCRIBED AS BROTHER OF

AMAUTO-1, HAS ASKED TO LEAVE

AND IS NOW IN

WII

REQUESTED TO CHECK TIESE LEADS.

4. FILE 201-735296. END OF MESSAGE

HIL/COG/COMMENT:

ef i said that

butcher who old

Icquaintance.of

and willing travel

TAUTO-1e las

• been located

if necessary

Ref B is POl grant.

tor one

whom

ARLAUTO-1.

plans to use somenon to get to

04. 95 AN

WE/FI/CI

.. RELES SINÜ OFFICEA

DEORAARLTIRA MU ME.

C/iH/COC

iC/ EUR/IB

COSETURNO MIG OFFICERS

SECRET:?!"

WILLIAN V. BROS

C/IHD

AUTICATICATING

OFFICER

---

## Page 45

DISPATCH

russial

SECRET

PERESSING AGION

пю.

Chief, Westers Bemisphere Divigion:

Cler,

Furopean Division

Chief of Station, PH/Minal

LE PORNS HOURID

LENT QUANTIS NER

CAN NIECE INSCUMA

SUB ACT

Chief of station

CUMAID CULOLS

SIGHIN

ACTION ROUSED. REFINENLES

AR: None, TYI. Please as81g0 201 number

References:

A.L

0173

в.

UH/ BIALI

6576

C. DIRECTOR. 011307

. The Polloving information about subject's trip to

and her activities while here was obtained from QUI IMIT

and QUDOZE.

Subject arrived

on 10 February 1970.

during. the week of 23 Yebruary and

T6 March thereupon abe then loft forl

on 17 Barch and waited for

ConTerclal nego-

lon 27 March 1970.

]departed Madrid

It appears that she intended to travel

several cables vere sent

Travel statue..

frequent contact with

(station traces

are OSBA 02385,

17. February 1965; OSBA 02718, IT August 1967;

and OSBA 02795, I March 1968) •

She wag not known to have been

in contact with any other locals and what little time she had

for

diversion she spent with the mission officers and their

wives.

Distribution:

2

- C/IHD

C/BUR

2 - COS, WH/Hiant

... continued

d:..

CADES RAFERENCE :O

652-1070

65-E-4474

201-935298

{01: 589482

ESPATCH SCAROL AND RUMS!?

OSKA • 2€228

MONOTON

SECRET

DATE

13 May 1970

51-935296

201-

---

## Page 46

DISPAICH

SECRET

OSMA = 26718

3.

The purpose of

tr1F

sas to-discusa

the 1970 vork pian for

She also talked with be various

officials,

nost probably to inuiliarize derself with their duties and to

see if they bad any problems. She pltched sa and helped eith

the backlored work of I

and also belped gith the cultural activities.

For instance, she sont too cables

• ODe redarding

the forvarding of movie posters for a Barch exhibit and another

regarding the forwarding of a

stamp exbibition by end

March.

In their discussion of the 1970 work plan|

that they were going to plan the february, March, and

April quarter.

She shoved his "an agenca for the control of

planned and unplanned activities" and the gecerol directives of

the plan ohich

Included sclentific Infornstion and political

Information, eith specific directives (requirements)

bas to prepare for

the actlvities accomplished.

a ponthly report, then a quarterly

reports the

actluitles of the following quarter lil be planned.

In line oith the plan of sciertific

information,

and cons of

discussed the pros

which

is to be set up 1n

wns ot the

opinion that the locaT|

Communis t

party rould try to ofiltrate it and this

would bring problem to the

pointed out the succeases encountered in

with such n comittee

even though at first there sere probleus.

which vere later overcone.

showed

connercial project

which she planned to take

asked hin to read 1t because it ras also of

interest to the

Biasion

mentioned that the PlaD of

Information was still to be completed especially

1n the priority categories of livestoc}

and

economy.

d.

They turned next to the topic of

the budget.

said that the budget

for each aission had to be subaitted before

the end of April (every year) and no additional

expercitures could be subaitted for approval

during the courge of the year.

however, would be treated individually.

Their special needs, such as acquisttion of

more office space,

raises in cost of living

allovances, etc., would be tasen loto consideration

at. any time.

1•44.40

80°

530

LIE PRETORIA LOCA

CLASBIERATON

SECRET

PACE GO

2

---

## Page 47

CGNIINUATION OF

DISPAICH

SECRET

OSHA • 20318

During their parlous discussions_

aired hia

cosplaint about the visa Deporteout

Baying that

the department vas practically worthless and that last year

76 cables regarding visos remained unansvered.

defondod tho Ministry gaylog lant 18 had a lot of bore to

•do, bul

replied that they waited to work only & hours

They also discusted the scholarshio situation. It

races that durtas on. interviow betreen

to provide a list of scholarsuip carordates to be considered

and he had none.

kentioned that.

they also

lost four scholarships because of this sade reason.

Accordine to QUT IMID

married to one

and bas a daughter nabed |

mother fa still living although appeared to be very

11l at the time

cabled at least trice

inquiring about the

istatus of

her mother's health. (TYLOTE reported that

home phone number

Perhaps Hcadquarters

can detersine the full same of her husband by checking the

reverse telephone listings:L

Jis attractive, Intellicent

sortious-minced and reserved. The lost time she visited

she stayed with

and was on the ssad

type of mission as the present obe - to discuss the

She diso visited the

and the

Helen B. NOTICURFT

53 a

USE PERIQUA RENTION

20.

CLASSIFICATION .

SECRET

PACE DO

SconTinuro.

3

---

## Page 48

analysis

additional revich has been ositted.

biographic study should be useful.

1301-550) file

of addressees,

However, the

attached

---

## Page 49

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 50

14-00000

---

## Page 51

14.00000 -

---

## Page 52

14-00000

---

## Page 53

14-00000

---

## Page 54

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 55

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 56

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISCENNATION

PERST! NOTES

→ CLASSIPICO MESSICE

•TOTAL CORES?

SECRET

DERR CONCTION DE THIS CODY PE SHINIERO.

-in-

win 3

T SON LAT

шня

ACTION NO

298

DARE NO. O RETURN TO

FILS, VR R/AN, EVEL, ClOeS, EIR

SECRET 291535Z APR 70 CITE WHMIAMI 7348

DIRECTOR INFO

TYPIC AMAUTO

PEr a intians 7504(1070131)

B UFAA - 1978

SHOWN PHOTOS OF AMAUTO-/ AND REMARKED,

"WHY®

THIS IS

REMEMBERED AMAUTO-I AS NICE

CLEAN-CUT BOY WITH HIGH IDEALS. WHILE THERE WAS

PROBABLY FATHER-SON RELATIONSHIP

DID

NOT

RECOGNIZE IT AS SUCH.

2.

IS WILLING TO TRAVEL IT

TO TALK

WITH

AMAUTO-1O HE HAS AN EXPIRED PASSPORT. WAS TOLD

INTERVIEW WAS EXPLORAIORY AND

WOULD RECONTACT..

IF

SERVICES WERE NEEDED.

3.

POUCHING ABOVE CONTACT REPORT, ALONG WITH

REF A CONTACT REPORI, VIA REF B.

4. FILE: 201-866054 AND 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

23 APR INO 72939

401/17

AB

DES NED

ES COPY

SECRET

201-935296

i290p10

---

## Page 57

DISPATCH

CLASSNICATON

Ch 101,

INFO

Vestern Heatanhore depleton

Chief of Station

ARCH

Chief, Daropean Diviston

SUBJECT

Ch1ol o Stetlos, 14/M1amt

TYPIC AHUO

Interview

ALTION RIQUIRED - REFERINIS

PRCCISSINC ACTION

BARRED FOR BEN TIE

Ment dish stio

LOME GUADNO DISE

HAT TOS MOING

Action leguired: Pira 2 below

Referenees:

4.

DIRECTOR 026320,

VE/NIAMI. 7304

C•:

WH/MIAHT 7348

aubmitted br

Forwardod herewith are two contact reporta

on big interviews with

366034) concerning

(201-735298). Böth contact reporta

so sorr explanatory and

vere sumarised in Beferences

B and C.

Please advise if wnl

matter

I1 во.

of contect between SANKO andhould mano eb

the Station suggests that

accoapany

as Als handler.

Kelvia D. IKESCHKH

Attachnonte:

A.. Contaet Report,

B.

Contaet Report,

21 April 1970

28 Apr11

1970

CROSS REFERENCE 10

Distribution:

3

2

Chief, WED /atte h/- (la dupl)

COS

lo/atta h/s (in dupl)

- Chief, FUR /atte h/« (one copy)

ESPATER STASON AND MUNGER

_ UFAA-1978

CLASSITILATION

(201-735296 )

SECRET

TEST

$ 1373

15277

29 Apr 11 1970

201-866054

---

## Page 58

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 59

14-00000

addi adere cani do do osass de adesi

---

## Page 60

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 61

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 62

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ANUTINE RAL CA INITIAIS-SEEN B

-Gr-01-9

dorance con (7.u83

Dusties

1!.!

Diese er.

35/1

Tea 10.

WH. 8

Far, la

316

SECRET 2421362

DIRECTOR INFO

AMEN TO 68A40 0013

Apons Deca

APR

70 CITE WIXG1AM1.7564

ACTING).

sulp in 0M 0131

REF: DIRECTOR 026320

1a

INTERVIEWED AND CLAIMED

HE NEVER HEARD OF OR KNEW AMAUTO-!. LAST TIME HE WAS

IN

WAS 1948 AND DENIED HE EVER TRAVELED

I-N

1959. • EXPERIENCED CAREER AGENT

INTERVIEWED

AND MAS NO REASON TO DOUBT

ANSWERS. AS FOLLOW-UP

PHOTOS OF AMAUTO-I TO

WILL SHOW TWO DIFFERENT

FOR IDENTIFICATION. WILL

ADVISE. POUCHING

INTERV 15W.

2. FILE: 201-866854 AND ED1-735286.

GP-1

SECRET

AY?-

AB

DECIDED

Co doid na

201 - 866054

SECRET

cité in:

201-735296

---

## Page 63

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, WH Division

Chief, EUR; Chief of Station, WIl/Miami

Chief of Station

NaKT

TYPIC/QUDOZE/ AJLAUTO-1

ACTION AFQUIUD - REFERENC

XX

PROCESSINO ACTION

MARKED ON DODULE

HỌ DON BAD

ONEY QUALIASO DESI

CAN JUDGE EDUNHE

MAROFUM

In a conversation held in his office on 3 December

1969 Alauro-l said that in 1957 he sorked in

a butcher for one

_visitea PoRKEN after I January 1959 and

Invited Aural ta return to the States to continue his job

as a butcher.

is not further identified in the report.

If

could be located it might be interesting to

obtain his assessment of AJAUTO-I*

Distribution:

—CAHD

2 - C/EUR

2

- WH/Miami-M cur. Poord

CROSS REFERENT TO

DISPATEM SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OSMA -25745

CLASSICATION

SECRET

DATE

•5 December 1969

MOS FILE NUMBLE

201-735296

---

## Page 64

DISPATCH

CASICARON

SECRST

Chlof, lestero Herispere Division

лю.•

Chief. European Division

Chlel of Station, Du/HaEl

Chlop of Station

SUBJECT

RYBAT/TYPIC/AMAUTO

Moet 1ug vith: 201-866017

KTIC LIQUIRED - ALHRINGS

PECTESSINO ACTION

DUPED HE DOTAG

NO DIDERING EIDURAID

CAN RIDGE DUDEXTIG

On 15 ADril 1970

who are

partners 1ol

had lunch with Subject

The following

report of that meeting:

-A.

"Subjoct, and

have Jolned with another

lawyer,

, to explore joint yenture posal-

b171t1es

Subject atl

parters with offices in

are law

An assesament of Subjeet

based on such a sbort coareraation mould not normally

be of nuch assistance but since sibject opened up on

big thoughte about

« geberal reconvendation can

be reached.

"During the luach I was able to sort the

conversation around to the business potental for

and. U.D. companfes in

we touched on

said that Subject

considers hingell to. bo an expert In this arna as he

interview vita

last your aod had a ariate three hour

subject recolved a "snor jod" fros the

sa1d that

thie about sets the tone for his leellage for the

1t was not clear how Subject

recelved an lovitation

but he said that

ho saslated in obtainlag a contract

truck company - shother as a repro-

sentative of this corpany or in a free lance capacity

/continued/

scoti filed in 201-866047.

Distribution

2 - C/UHD

2 - C/BUR

•FH/M1a01

CROSS ALFERENCE TO

13

DEPUTON SYMBOL AND ALASER

OSMA 26195

CLASSFICATOR

SECRET

Fill in 201-735-2466

FILE: AMALTO-L

DATE

29 April 1570

MES HUE NUMBER

201-866047

201733206

---

## Page 65

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

OSWA 26195

SOCHET

vas not brought out.

It sooned lo so that sublare

1e 51d105 an esotional high for

Mla face l1t up and ho vocano relattvely oxcisod

•hon talling us dou

talis with

tho conson people," and la fror

parents,.

and has done ao such for the country.

I arkod bin

what his koneral depression vas of lito there and

ho replied" phenomenal," and I bollero be seant it.

C.

'Sone cornante tbat Subjoct made vould appoar

to be inspirod by

propaganda or a briofing.

He

Said that JKLANCE 1e in control of U.S. Internal

security and in PorcIng a rightest sulog lo lea in-

tornal politics.

Also, all pauple going

are photographed by JKLANCE people, while

IT you go from

you don't run this risk.

"anted bin 1l there was good potential: for

Ee replied

1s a bridge l

This scored

a strange anger. and I pointed out that you dida't

have to gotc

to get to

"that's true,

out other countries will change so the

syston and vill need technicians to assist them.

Then ve (Iguess he meant

business sen doing

bualnese sith

will have excollent possibilities.

"Subject said that he kner.

and in fact visited hin this morning and re

ceived a large box of Havana cigars fron bin.

"Subject 16 about 30 years old, good looking

and rakes an excollent first inpression.

He appeara

to have a good businose background in addition to being

• trained lawyer.

No seens aggressive, deterined and

has a good

imagination for business vontures.

"It would be premature to say that Sublect leans

Consunion or has been bad

doubt that be sould have talised so freely about hia

adalration for

if he do sorking covortly for then.

It 1a quite cortain

that he is boing used by the

for cormercial purposes,

and 1 could estate

that he would aako an excolleut "front sao" for

business ventures.

"I would recomond against trying to recruit

Subjoct ad a means of getting to the

He would probably turn down the pitch and tofor the

Embasuy."

The above report i8. an excollent beginning In our assesg

must be connended for his adepinose

at steering the conversation torard the relevant arcas of interest.

Do think the report stands alone and requires little concentary by

the Station; horover, ve sight add hore

that thore 1s a strong

probability that Subject sas indeed anonod under bu tro lanure de

his alloged three hour talt I

Kot. vithetanding

tihe report ve feel that Subject

is still. pallogins to the ebullience of thin confrontation with

one visit

is short relatlonship with the

would hardly make nin an authority

CLASSITICATION

DACETO

53 a

101419113

---

## Page 66

DISPAICH

SRCRET

GSHA 20105

3.

11

you agroe. se. rould like to try anothar attenpt do get

an assoassent of subject.

For days se have heeu trying

to deviso

a cover

story for a station officer to use da an approach to Subjoct.

ve have one sed sould like your cossents, suggestivos and ideas.

Station officor, proforably in dissulae and using an allas, vould

approach Subject as a Preo lanco uritor for "Sorld Nows" (a

sustostión made by. OCASRil borause there afo ao mary siringers

for

Vorld News" that 18 would be virtually lapossible lo copfira)

ultb tho intention that bo da uriting an articlo osl

Javyers

is bus inega

with the thone that a dogree in lar offory greator

opportunitrèo for advsncezent in business and governent.

(The

thon actually ia taken

fron an article in Fortune or Busluesa Eret

nagazloe road by the undersigned sone jears ago). The thoco vas

testod on cUCAMERA-l and ho agroen that it ia a good one and bould

vori bocause of the general nature o!

beninossreo to 11k+

to talk about thesselves.

that 18 lavolred novever, ia a consider

able anount of horavork, particularly in the collection of naves of

laryers do bustucas tho have been successful.

SUCANRA-1 18 pro

parlag a list of such people and ve ill' revier them together.

The

undersignod subsonuently will ask for Dun and Braditroet reporte on

tho firma these lavyers represent ao voll as forter the Pleas'

Iinancial history in our reference side located de the

commercial library.

The thene opens the door to a nunder of provoling questlons,

but 1t particularly offers " good opportunity to assess the person

ality of the targot.

Porhaps the opportinity eill again cone when

Subject discusses

bis rolationship and anor ledge

i1no an interesting exchange might engue possibly provollog Subjoct

and/or his allection

conelusion, tho

Station

would reconsend against using. subject as ao interediary

tO AMAUTO!.

Advise.

Howard B. SACODER

RIBAR R2

2238-7K6710%

530

45888Er0USROIton

8i-2352%6cn0

Icostauro

---

## Page 67

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION.

#ERICA VA? NOTINES

_CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIER O

SECRET

T3 SECRET

poet uno

NORK OvE

CLASSEY TO CARRE NO...

SIRES Dr

35

4÷715a

WH S

OUTING ANE OBNITIALS

BEEN HI

cutestex

End is

x6 1

FILE, VA BIAN, EUR 6, C/OrS, F1 2

SECRET 2421362 APR 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 7304

DIRECTOR INFO

REF: DIRECTOR

026320

CTING)

24 Ape 70 / NOM 0131

INTERVIEWED AND CLAIMED

HE

NEVER HEARD OF OR KNEW AMAUTO-1O LAST TIME HE WAS

WAS

1948 AND

DENIED HE EVER TRAVELED TO

AFTER

11959. EXPERIEYCED CAREER AGENT

INTERVIEWED

AND MAS NO REASON TO DOUBT

ANSWERS.

AS FOLLOW-UP

PHOTOS OF AMAUTO- 1 TO

WILL SHOW TWO DIFFERENT

FOR IDENTIFICATION. WILL

ADVISE. POUCHING

2. FILE: 201-866054 AND 201-735296.

GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

Ellio: 89-9450-11

---

## Page 68

RICHLAD DIS;pid

111/ COG/OPS

E.T.

81255

22

APRIL 1970

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIO:

GY.

-PER.

E057

- BRANCH

_ FILE IN CS FILE NO

LICE ME CANT

(aste and lima disca

23 60

01 ziea70

(elass. location)

SECR

leilto?

Trafarenço meanient

то: |

Г.

WHALIASI

INFO:

TIPIC AUROSE ALDOCILE

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 020399

"CITE DIRECTOR

027720

1. INERGO DOCUNENT ON

DATED 1951

AND NISFILED JUST RETRIEVED BY HQS, DOCUMENT CONCERNS

MILITARY SERVICE RECORD WHICH WE STILL TRYING OSTAIN.

2.

LNERGO DOCUMENT LISTS

NEXT-OF-SIN WIILE IN

SERVICE

BROTHER LISTED

SLUS ADDRESS.

• HOME ADDRESS SAJE PLUS

" 3. COULD THS

WIL/MIAMI 6934 (IN 049917) BE

(SIC) LISTED AS

ANULL

AD*>

BROTHER IN

ONE NOT

IDENTIFIABLE, NON-DEROGATOR! TRACE

1952.

2S

FRON LNERGO IN

DIS ID

4. NO HQS TRACES

IN

NEW YORK TELEPHONE DIRECTORY. NO

AT ABOVE ADDRESS IN REVERSE

DIRECTORY. NO

IN DIRECTORY,

5.. CAN YOU PIN DOWN

1201-735216

DUNUINATING OFFICERS

ADDRESS SO N'S CAN TRY LOCATE?!

RELEASING OFFICEN

ud COPY

SECRET

AUTHEUTICATINO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS FROMISITED.

2340

OFF A

7

---

## Page 69

UN:P:

D.?,

CADIE SECRETARLT DISSEMiMATION

GY.

PER

o Prie va.

MESSAGE PUPIL

SECRET

• dea 23 4 31 FM °70

ORIO LEDENO. :

FORKAPDED

- DRANCH

RIGTEDI

• FILE RID

PAGE THO

(date and ume filea)

SECRET

ater ance number)

CITE DIRECTOR

TO

Г.

70277207

6.

FILE 201-735296

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAN V. BROE

C/HAD

RELEASINO OFFICER

REPRODUCTION

EUR/BC/C

F/ISC

COORDINATINE CFFICERS

C/W8/COG

GROUP 1

Excludes iron suramelle

soangsding and

ETHER THEN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PR

BITED

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICES

CaFY NO.

---

## Page 70

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 71

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 72

14-00000

Cast

SECRET

DEPOCCUCTIDN CE. THIS COPY PROMIBITED"

—-

at:

so do done no..

stall TOO 315102742-76

bunsford

ACTION UNIT

Wid 8

OSM 9970

Protec or croes: ColiC a. C8605. 06 82P006. Po. No. ANAS

183% | C1, 500 3, WH/COG 4, WH/06/2 4, EUR 9, DCI, D/DCI, DOP, CS/*=

SECRET 121553Z APS 72 CITE

8861

DISCIOR INFO WA/MIALI

10/212080346 1

INTEL TYPIC ZRUAKOO TIZIO

SUPDATA SCURCE: PARAGRAPH TRO FROY ÷

GUAXE-L AND FROM SUFLUTE-L. NO IDEX.

FILED:

121553Z

CIN COMENT: OPS DATA (TRUE VANE) DELETED FROM SUPDATA PER CS43-F-5141,

CHAPTER IV, PARA 29. COPY. OF ORIGINAL SUPDATA GIVEN TO WH/COG, EUR/13, VR,

FILE, ADDP, C/FI.D.

SECRET.

---

## Page 73

14-00000

---

## Page 74

saor 418

5368

-,wMGe99

GiAS SATOR

Adinrs

rAinnã

400080381190

---

## Page 75

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 76

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 77

14-00000

6800 $ 91010

Bastes

3

SECRET:

(lihen Filled los)

INDER:

CLATTY TO CO FERNS.

MARP TO CO FRENO.

O PILE RiO

O ARTURN. TO

DIAL LUFIL

1A50 800.

kider

ACTION

4162

SECRET 252057Z MAR 18 CITE MACULAMI 5934

INFO DIRECTOR

RYBAT TYPIC SMABOVE

PER AGREEMENT DURING SMABOVE VISIT

25 MAR IN0 49917

R

WE

HAVE LOCATED SEVERAL RELAIIVES

IN CONTACTING

ONE OF THE AMOIS RECEIVED A RATHER

UNFRIENDLY RECEPTION.

WOULD BE APPRECIATED IF SMABOVES COULD DETERMINE WHETHER

HAS HAD ANY CONTACI WITH

2.

ACCORDING TO THE AMOT REPORT

IDENTIFIED AS

HAS A BROTHER

RESIDING

EXACT ADDRESS UNKNOWM.

3.

POUCHING COMPLETE AMOT REPORT FOR

AND

-DIRECTOR.

4.

FILE: 201-7352960 GP-1

SECRET

as Mairo.

3 0971

SECRET

201-735296

---

## Page 78

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATI

UNCLAssIfiED

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

-CE ANO BOTTOM

INITIALS

DU - 3

ACTION

APPROVAL:

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

:. DIRECT REPIT

DISPATCH

FILE

IRFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETUAN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Thi, titi/ pitly patts,

Biller fatten serlings.

Patile. Heated formanies.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME..

ADDRESS AND PHICAN NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

107670. 237

Use previous aditions

1-07

CONPIDESTIAL

SECKET

(10)

---

## Page 79

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 80

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 81

€ 422:

---

## Page 82

0/10%

1811

intents?

inte

---

## Page 83

DISPATCH

GLUSSERANON

SECRET/RYBAT

INTO.

Chief, Fostern Hendsphere Distsion

Chief,

European Division

Calef of Station, NILMAma

SUSIEET

Chief or Station

RYBIT TYPIC

ACTION RIQUIRIO- THIRENSOT

ANAUTO- 1

References: A. OSMN 11585

B. OSiN 11726

PECXISSING ACTION

• M GOTHING MOUSED

SALE GUANIC DESE

LAY LOS INCLUNG

1.

There is little we can contribute to the exceptionally

fine reports submitted by Headquarters on ANAUTO-1.

character, personality, physical and mental capabilities,

and to some

extent even his vulnerabilities, are succinctly

outlined in your reports.

In addition, you

have appropriately

recognized the Hurculean task we have, to overcome his. strong-

mindedness and idealistic character.

2.: After a series of discussions among the officers

involved with PBRUMEN operations at the Station, we have

concluded that to execute a logically developed

recruitnent, we are faced with the challenge to recruit a

person, an intermediary, in whom AXAUTO-1 has confidence and

respect; an individual who is able to plausibly carry on a

polemic argument with AlAUTO-l without cither antagonizing

him or causing him to become suspicious of the intermediary's

true role.

Morcover,

to be able to respord in an appropriate way to our instructions,

as well as show a genuine willingness to cooperate.

Frankly,

we have no such person, currently on our list of assets

and

to find someone with the attributes set forth in Reference A,

will be difficult to say the least, but we are prepared to

work diligently on this problem.

Attachments:

A.

PRQ Part 1, USC

Identities, USC

Distribution:

2 4 C/MID, w/atts A&B, USC

-C/EUR, w/att B, USC

2

- COS,

1: 31)

0: 1 25019678

401-866047.

..continued

A1177

iS REFERENCE TO

USC

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MUMBER

OSHA

- 26061

CLASSIFICATON

SECRET/RYBAT

DATE

is March 1970

MOS FILE NUMBER

w201-735296

---

## Page 84

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET/RYBAT

OSA - 26061

3..

ASAUTO-1 confides in for people.

From our reading

Of QUTINID and QUDOZE, there are at least three persons

who could logically and effectively. fill the role as an

internediary.

They are

Identities 1. B, and C.

Ne can

categorically climinate

Identity A for

obvious reasons,

1.C.,

lack

of

direct access to him.

Because of his relationship

to Identity:

we can also tentatively climinate Identity B.

He presents a risk which we are not certain should be taken;

however, we would like to

add & comment on him

in a later

paragraph.

Identity C would seem

to be

the most logical

choice.

He is intelligent, a professional man,

well-to-do,

joung and one with whom AlAUTO-1 frequently

talks and whom

he often sces..

We know little about his political proclivities

although he gives the impression of being a moderate analyst

of world events and doesn't seem to have a strong affection

or aversion for the PBRUNEN Government.

He have a good

background on him prepared for us by Dun and Bradstreet;

however, as you can well imagine, the report concentrates on

ohe ecompts erden the individua del

We have made a number

to determine whether he has

any American contacts; but with negative

file does not show where he visited in the United States or

the purpose, except that it was a business trip.

indefinite visa and we are fairly certain that,

if necessary,

the question of his visa as an entree to him.

currently reviewing with all Station assets their

knowledge of

Identity C.

In addition, we are also considering

assets such as QUEASH-1 and QUSPOT-1,

sho could, under some

legitimate business pretext, contact

Identity C.

Our objective

is to develop a warm

to Identity C without compromising

any of our agents,

but we are in need of an assessment of

either a Station Officer or an asset working

an officer's

instructions.

We will keep you advised of

lie are forwarding PRQ Part I under separate

A POA on Identity C was requested separately.

are no derogatory Station traces.

Identity B would be an excellent choice if not for

This avenue might be explored

with QUSEQUIN-18 if Headquarters is agreeable to a joint

operation.

QUSEQUIN-18 could probably get the necessary

clearances from Identity D directly,

or from one of Identity D's

aides, to contact Identity B. We will not pursue this until

we receive your comments.

It is not too early to consider the emoluments we

might want to offer to AIAUTO-1 at the time a pitch is made.

As always they should be divided into tro areas for defection

for recruitment and work in place.

Howard li Suader

SACODER

53a.

SECRET/RYBAT

201-735296

TRISTAS

2

---

## Page 85

CS COPY

S/C ATT. I to OSMA-26061.

501-735946

---

## Page 86

DISPATCH

SECRBT

Chlore

Western louisphere Division

200.

Chief,

Aurope Division:

COS, WIL/Mimit;

FESS

RACT

Chlef of Station

ACTION ROULLO - BEERINES

•«BAT TYPIC TECHS/Construction of Now PERINEN

Reference:. OSMA 24774

PBOCISSING ACTION

BANKS RON DIREC

•NO LOOTING BOULAID

"ONE QUALIND DISE

CAN JUDSA MOLENE

MiCROI NA

L.: The PBRUMEN government has approved the construction

ofa now office building to be used as an Embassy,

Commercial office and residence for the PBRUMEN Miniates.

The site has been identifled and work is expected to begln

soon; probably after

the return of AlAUTOl fron PBRUMEN,

sobotine within the next tro weeks.

The builders expoct to

coplete the building within eight monthe.

QUSEQUIN-37 is far nure confident than we are, about

the possibility of getting access to the building during the

construction phase to possibly install various audio devices.

We bellove':this operation to be a formidable one and we might

bo challenged by the presencel

Of PBRUMEN security

forces overseeing the construction, the presence of PBRUEN

electricians

and other professions, complicating the accese

to the building.

Wo believe AHAUTO-] has thel

experience well in mind and rost likely will do everything

within his pover to overcome the possibility of an audio

penetration of his building.

3.

Fe would be grateful for any information addressees

might have on the general modus operandi of PBRUMEN security

forces in areas where PBRUNEN official installations have been

constructed.

Have they used PBRUMN technicians, electricians,

construction engineers,

etc?

Also we would like

to koow whether

the PBRUNAYS have installed their own telephone system or have

they generally relied on the systen of the host country.

gould appreciate too, any comments Headquarters or

other addressees would like to make on the best

course of action for the Station to corsider.

QUSEQUIN-37

believes he can get a copy of the blueprints after the plan

Distribution:

2 - C/IHD

2

C/ SUR

2

COS, BB/M1am1

2

COR

(continued)

GRUSS REFIRDACI TO

DEZAICH SYMBOL AND IRAJR

OSMA 26010

CARIKANCH

SECRES

NEE FRE NUMBER

18 March 1970

Advise File

---

## Page 87

14-00000

CONTINUAHION OF

PAGE 2 DISPAICH

SECRET

0S1A. 26040

1a subaltted for approval

feels confident that he: can probably get the

He

telephony compasy to cooperato and possibly

sono of the

sub-contractors, 18 there are any.

4.

He have made the assumption

above

that Headquarters

desires

the Station

to pursue

this

natter,; if not please

advise.

Roward B. SACODER

TREATION

530

COMPenis

---

## Page 88

SIT. COG/OPS

21519/7144

= 2023701 1070

REE SCERESA GGEBINARION

SECKET

CT

[I INDEX

C.. TIRE IN ES FILE NO.

TOMORE CHETURN TO - PHANCA.

O PILE RIO

toassileation)

SFCRET

(eile).

(auto and timo Wed)

20 23 2921a270

CITE DIRECTOR

NIL/MIAMI

INFO

018016

TYPIC ANAUTO

REF: WIL/MIAMI G8-1 (IN 014777)

1. NO ADDITIONAL NOS TRACES

.O.Y

: 2.

ASSIGNED 201-866051.

HIS PON IS BEING

PROCESSED,

WILL ADVISE.

3. FILE: 201-S66051, X-REF 201-735296.

E:7) OF

MESSAGE

NI/COG/COLMENT:

Rof provided bio data and remested Pol for

debriefing on

businessman

recruitment

target

in 1957.

worked for one

Jas an apprentice butcher

_(pice)

7

F./ IB/S_

FILE:

HILLIAN VI

BROE

C/WIID

RILEASING OrFICCA

annon.

SECRET

TIRONCIOPING AY MINFO THIN THRSUING DIFICE IS PROHISHED

C/HIL/COG

AUTIFUTICATIP;]

copy to

---

## Page 89

aY.

MESSAGE FROM

TOTAL COMES

= ROUTINE AIDICA INITIALS - SEET ON

#H/CCG/OPS

R1S19/7114

17 MATCH 1273

ALE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

4 PEA

SECRET

D INODE

O NO INDEE

[J. FILE IN CS TiLE NO.

EURE, CilOA, filAN

CATURNTO -

_ BRANEN

(classifeation)

_SECRET:

• (date and tima bled!

i noisen

petited

freterence numbe

CITE DIRECTOR

Г

INFO WH/MIAMI

018318

TYPIC ANAUTO

REF:

1.-

0689 (IN 043650)

ONLY HOS TRACE ONT

JOTHER

TIAN INFO CONTAINED OSJ-9487, SLAR 1969, IS TRAVEL

10 MARCH 69

14 MARCH 69.

2.

ASSIGNED 201-S66047. POX BEING PROCESSED, WILL

ADVISE.

IF ASSESSMENT FAVORABLE, WILL ASSIGY CRYPTONYM,

3. FILE: 201-966047, X-REF 201-736296.

END OF NESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENT:

Reference requested traces and

Jawver

and

Of AIAUTO-1.

priority POl on

businessman and

personal friend

C/WH/COG

с/8/1B/S.

Fit:

7

-C/E/FI/CI

RELEASING OFFICER

COORCINAFING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THASI THE ISSUING CIFICE IS PRCHISITED

RUMMERITICATINO

OFFICEA

copy 880

---

## Page 90

$57

LAZLE SECRETARIDI UINEMNALION

PERMIDA LOT NORAE

Laorres

-. 3

SECRET

FILE, IP RIAN EURE CLOA

-веді дит IA1..

GROUP I

I

ACTION

- 708

stalen

SECRET 172034Z MAR TO CITE WH/MIAMI 684 D

DIRECTOR INFO

TYPIC

AMAUTO-

ACTING)

178a1:044777

THROUGH LOCAL WOBONE OFFICE STATION HAS LOCATED

AN

ACCORDING

TO LOCAL. RECORDS HE WAS

BORN

WIFE'S NAME IS

LISTED AS THE OWNER OF THE

LOCATED AT

20. THE

1957

HE IS CURRENTLY

DELICATESSEN AND GROCERY

DIRECTORY LISTED SUBJECT

AS PiANAGER OF A FIRM

DIRECTORY LISTED HIM-AS OWNER OF THE

CENT ER

3• LOCAL FILES STATED THAT ON 12 MAY 1960

APPLICATION FOR A LIQUOR LICENSE. HE WAS FINGERPRINIED

AND HIS FINGERFRINTS WERE FORWARDED TO LNERGO. LATTER

REPORTED NO CRIMINAL RECORD.

MADE AN

4• SIATION WILL CONTACI AND DEBRIEF ON RECEIPT OF POA.

S: FILE: 281-735296. GP-1

SECRET

2: C0

DECLIPD

COPY

201-735296

1tia:y0

---

## Page 91

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

I LASSINO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES IL

SECRET SE

MIANCE 5E.

HOTTES

GOODUCTION GO THIS COOT DROMIBITES

no at 4:

CLASSIFY TO CA FRANO

ROUTINE AND-OR INITIALS-STET I

. з

MASEW 9Y.

BETION SA.

BRANCH

SECRET 171406Z MAR 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 6832

DIRECTOR,

TYPIC AMAUTO

REFS: A.

.:Bo

868962 043650

8698(~ 0436561

1.

NO

STATION TRACES

2. FILE

J201.

X-REF 201-755296.

SECR

ACTING>

17Mm 044105

GP- 1

Teel: 8779965011

SECRET

---

## Page 92

BLE SECRETASIAT DiSSEMIMATION

ASTERS

ANGASSIFIEO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES E

SECRET

1 SECRET

OSUSPION OF THIS COPY PROMIDITEO

BOUTINO AMBION IN:T1ALS-S08NBT

10.8886 t0 in

A-REE TO CO FELE NO. M

III

HERES BY_

NG 8

FILE, VR

Refair a

SECRET 161SI8Z MAR 70 CITE

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF:

013650)

16M:: 043656

1. • IDENIITY:

2. FILE 201-736296.

SECRET

GP- I

SECRET

---

## Page 93

ABLE SECRETARIT DISSELINATION

*ERARILAT

ADO ANCE CODY

Cranes

Carrio

MISSIPiCO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

Baguet

(hen Filled In) "22

RESOUCTION OR THIS CODY PROMPTES.

CLANDEY TO CA FRE NO

SAGO TO CO FRE NO.

O MEND OPTURATO

AOUTLAJ AND CO INITIALS. 988M 8T

IIII

DASH Or.

WH. 8

56/

:

FILE, VR

SE CIRE I 16ISITZ MAR 7O CITE

0639

DIRECTOR. INFO WHAMIAMI

і6 на: 043650

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF!

DIRECTOR 015890

Jo STATION COMMENIS ON RECRUITMENT AMAUTO-I TO

BE POUCHED 18 ViARCH®

2. REQUEST TRACES AND PRIORITY POA ON IDEN WHO IS

LAWYER, AND PERSONAL FRIEND AMAUTO-O PRQ PARI I WILL

BE ATTACHED TO ABOVE DISPAICH. POA FOR CONIACT AND

ASSESSMENT AND IF FAVORABLE, RECRUITMENT AS INTERMEDIARY

FOR OP AGAINST AMAUTO-1.

3. FILE 201-738296. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 94

14-00000

stans -

MISIRUCHION:

PRION TO HUNG

Full an Suet 2. on back

Desire; front couns sheet unloss it eccords

signslicent achon laken in coenrechie sequie.

in pieservation.

FROM:

- RID!

10 ACTION BRANCH

Male no and hillo shown me not proper,

insert propor ble no belor and lorrard

document to RID AN.

E°:- 129

79

28 CI-7

H00M

TO

C/ 0H/C

Glucker

DATE

197078

/ OFFICE#S

3018141€

5

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILLIN SECTION I ONUSES IF ASPEOPRIATE

COMMENTS

THi

2-3: This is probably

Dosin't bak

likes auy act regained.

13.

14.

154

16

17.

RID. Fl

FOACE

REQUEST

DATE MICUDANLMEO

6:0a

FILETITLE

AISTMACE

INDEE

201-7352%6

USMA 26025

13 Viar 40

SECRET

1601

rogue

---

## Page 95

14-00000

INSO.

120.38

DISPATCH

CLASHEICATION

SECRET

Chtof, Rastern Hentsphere Diviston_

Chief, Europe Divisiqu:

SUBMET

Chief of Station

E TIPIC/RUTIMID.

ACTION MQLICIO. HOLELATES-

PROCRSSING ACTION

BAIRD FOR NOLIEN,

SO DING MONE

ORLY QUALIAGO DESE

CAN NOG DEDINNE

MAX POINI

References:

A.

B.

C.

OSMA 25995

DIRECTOR 014234

_0620

According to CITINID on 26 February,

of. thel

_Company called AMAUTO-] and spoke

with his secretary to explain that her company is giving

their book to a number of persons in order to obtain their

opinions about the product and AMAUTO-1 was one of the persons

on

call when he returned.

rest dia's secretary said tot eat an

was told that an

appointment was made for 10 March.

This would appear to be a routine item which

probably would not merit. further investigatlon: unless we

can discover someone of higher caliber in the

who could approach AMAUTO-1 as a means of cultivating a mean-

ingtul friendship with AMAUTO-1.

Philip C. KENTLAND

Distribution:

22 - C/WILD

- C/ EUR

2

COS, WH/Miami

2

* COB/DO

CROSS PERENCE 10

I DISPATON STARBOI ND MUASIR

OSHA 26025

CLASSIFICATION

•SECRET

DATE

13 March 1970

HOS FIL NUMER

11/.44101

-05-7200

---

## Page 96

400000

fires

raT,

DATE

N1/C03/OPS

11819

13 SARCH 1970

CABLE SECRETARiAT DISSEMINATION

CONT

| FILE VR.

(elassificanon)

SECRET

-WHA

TYPIC

AMAUTO

REI:

WII/

0 INS

WESSAGEDO

TO:AL C3+7.8

SECRET

O NO INDEX

OUTING INDICE EAST REE DY

(cate and limo filac

18 16 2021a70

→ RETUAN TO

_ BRANCA

O ALE AID

CIeS

FIZ-

(Rice)

CITE DIRECTOR

0:7236

7

7

INFO:

6753 (IN 010850)

I. FOR STATION'S INFORMATION IN REF INVESTIGATION, INSURA

FILE ON AMAUTO-1 SHOWS HE USED FOLLOWING ADDRESSES DURING HIS STA

THERE:

18C. Le

2. FOR HIS INYUMA INVESTICATION HE RETAINED LAW FIRM OF

3. PILE SHOWS HE FIRST LEFT

8 NOV 56, WENT TO KEY WEST

TO SEE BROTHER, LEIT

17 NOV 56 AS TOURIST TO DOM RSP

WHERE HE RECEIVED FIVE MONTHS MILITARY TRAINING.

BECAUSE HE FOUND HE WAS IN WITH GROUP OF

DECIDED TO LEATE

"GANGSTERS" AND WAS

IMPRISONED. THERE FOR FIFTEEN DAYS FOR TRYING TO ESCAPE.

COOROINATING OFFICERS COPY

GROUPI

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

1s Piles

AUTHENTCATIAC

OFFREN.

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAY THE ISCUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

:201-735296

---

## Page 97

14-00000

MEGLACE FORM

TOIAL COPILSI

SECRET

ROUTING ANDIOS ANTILE".

SEEN BY

EXTE

DATEI

aY.

2: 10

32 M

CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

- PER

"I NO INOEX

C VILE iN CS TILE NO. =

O RETURN TO

BRANCH

• TILE RIO

fILE, VA.

PAGE THO

(classification)

SECRET

(data and Limo filed

(clite)

triorance number - Spical

CITE DIRECTOR: 017236

7

WAS IN CHARGE OF

TRAINING

THERE.

4. HE REENTERED U.S. 5 APRIL 57, OVERSTAYED HIS TIME, AND ON

11 FEB 58 WAS ORDERED DEPORTED

HE CLAINED HE WOLD BE

KILLED IF HE RETURNED, THAT U.S. WAS ONLY PLACE WHERE HE FELT FREE, SO HE

NEVER SHOWED FOR DEPORTATION. LATER LNYUMA INVESTIGATION SHOWED

THAT AS OF 2 MAR 58 HE WAS LIVING AT

HAVING LEFT ON "EXPEDITION PLANE" FROM

5. FILE 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

TH/CONVENTS

§ 59

Ref reports WH

reviewing leads in

,area pertaining to targetting of ALAUTO-I.

AID/ED

His 19

AC/WHID

EUR/IB

2.0...

ALLEASING ORACER :

COORDINATISG OFFICERS

SECRETO.

C/WH/COG

Excluses lion automatic

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COIY NO

---

## Page 98

pict

ANACE 0O0R

COURD

BLOTPRO

TAN$ 6098

CLAENDY TO CO FRE NO.

. 3

ACTION

wils

483

RETURN TO

ĐRANCH

FILE, VR RUAN, DO4L EURG, C1/OPS, FI 2

SECRET. ISCUIOZ MAR 7O CITE

DIRECTOR INFO

TYPIC DOMOPS QUTIMID

AMAUTO

REF

CIRECTOR 014234

7526

SHE IS STAVING 10.

chicle 13/21042774 iris.

4

NO BASE OR LOCAL LNERGO TRACES

SUBJ REF. PRETEXT PHONE CALL BY BASE OFFICER TO

8 ONLY LOCAL FIRM CORRESPONDING TO

CITED REFY ESTABLISHED THAT NO PERSON THAT

HAME EMPLOYED THERE.

?.

NOTE THAT. PHONE

NUMBER MENTIONED REF IS

NUMSER

3.

UNLESS FURTHER IDENTIFYING INFO FORTHCOMING ON

EASE PLANS NO ADDITIONAL ACTION THIS MATTER.

4.

FILE 201-735296.

GP- 1.

SECRET

CS CUPY

SECRET

261-735246

13ma 10.

---

## Page 99

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 100

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 101

TAL SLIP | DATE

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

HEMARKS:

119 D STRE

Rim 547

Ask for

FROM:

ROOM NO.

5584424

BUILOING

REPLACES FORM 36-8

WHICH MAY BE USED

TEXTENSION

# GPO: 1953-07-839185

(0)

---

## Page 102

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 103

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 104

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 105

JEERSONiANT NOTIFEO

ADVANCE COPY

#xi.

_ ATI

ACTION

0 N NO.

TI SE CHET

When Filled In) :

PEPRODUSTIONOP GIA CODE CRONIBITEO

Ores

O Nc

GLASHT TO COPIERO.

LAST TO CA FLENO.

O RETURN TO

TRIES, VA GILAN, EUR G, FI2, GI/OPS

SECRET 111655Z MAR 78 CITE WH

16753

DIRECTOR,

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: DIRECTOR 015890

while

1o.

WH/MIAMI ATTEMPTING TO CHECK OUT REF INFO ON

AMAUTO- I THROUGH SEVERAL ASSETS-AND LOCAL WOBONE.

WILL ADVISE IF ANYTHING DEVELOPED.

2.

FILE: 201-735296.

GP-1

SECRET

_IMa K:04085n

01

I

DESTITD

CS COPY

SECRET

201-735296

---

## Page 106

TO

w. COC/OPS

R1819

14T1

10 MARCH 1970

CACLE SCERLYARIAT DISSEMINATION

_PER_.

SICKNE

C7 NO MOEX

1J FILE AN ES FILE NO.

LUH8

(class restion)

S FCRET

(date and limo fled)

PRIORITY

10 23 162la70

WIL/

TYPIO

AMAUTO -

REFS: A.

OSMN-25989 (NOT SANT Wil,

B.

OSMY 11726

BRASICH

I FILE RIO

(elitel

(rekerunce nuder)

CITE DIRECTOR

075800 7

1. ITEM 12 DATED 28 JAN 70 REPORTED REF A QUOTES ANNUTO-1•

AS SAVING TILT HE WILL NOT BE IN

_FOR INAUGURATION NEW

BUILDING SINCE NIS. TOUR

ENDING. ITEM 15 DATED

6 FaB,

REPORTED REF A, QUOTES NLUTO-1 AS SAYING HE INTENDS TO LEAVE

FOR|

AFTER 18 JULY.

2.

VIET ABOVE, REQUEST YOUR COUMENTS ON REF B ASAP.

3. FILE 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

ISH/ COG/ COMENTS:

Ref a is normal dispatch take from QUTIMID/QUDOZE

audio operation run against AlAUTO-1

These itons were not signalled by cable.

Ref B 1s

lengthy dispatch fion llas pointing out

vulnerabilities of MinUTO-1, means

him. aid request for comments by wil

of tarretting

C/B/ FI/CI

PiLLAGING OrFICER

C/#I/CCG

I3 Ca

EUR/IB

ACAID

COORCINATINS OFFICERS

261=9.35246

MUTHINCITING

SECKET

- -тna: 10

REPRODUCTIC CY OTHER TRIG DUE ISSUING OFFICE IS PACRIGITEO

CCrY NO.

---

## Page 107

LUC PLANML

mưc Tả: Fin 83. 001. 10 2.

° nosi

03

KIF RIT

---

## Page 108

E CRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSEN

---

## Page 109

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSESIMATIOR

PLASOALLNET NOTIFIE

"'ASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

(When Filled In)

AOVANCÉ CONT

Lare

AAPROUUUTION OP THIS COP

O vis

#PONIBIPEG

О мо

Vi in

CLASSPY TO CA FRE NO.

IMES TO CA FRENA -

DIARIA BY

ACTION

sti?

не зон

PILE, VR RIEN,

DA AN CA

EVR 6 FID, CT/ep5

SECRET 051S 15Z MAR TO CITE

DIRECTOR INFO

0620

5 MAR INO 37245

•TYPIC QUIIMID AMAUTO

REF: DIRECIOR 014234

1• LOCAL IRACES

A MARCH 78.

2. FILE:

65-2-18/9.

SECRET

FORWARDED OSMA- 25995, POUCHED

GP-1

THo GAL

for sono iper filmere

SECRET

fiLe: 602-791

---

## Page 110

DISPATCH

FERALSO AUTION

SECRET

1410.

Chiel- Eurora Divisioni

Hestern Hemisphere Division

chief,

COS, WILl

OMIT QUA:IN:10 ASE

CAN MOG UNDERING

Chief of Station,

SANCT

M: BOILA

TYPIS/QUTIMID/

ACTION POURIO PLIGENCES

between the wife

QUTIMID reported a 21 Januarv 1970 conversation held

speaking for the

Company in

said that her company was undertakinr

publicity and

some type of

wished to interview

in this rogard.

When questioned about - what kind of work the company does,

replied that

and consultant firm with central office located

is an investigation (studies)

gave her local number as

that the matter would be brought

She was advised

and she would be informed of the results later.

Later that day

press

officer and a member

he would see her the next day in his office at 10:30.

called back to say that

3.

According to QUSEQUIN, telephone

in

the name of [

is registored

There are

no Station or liaison traces

Company

may be able to identify the

was in touch with the

and the reason for shich their representativo

Whatever follow-up action is conducted, the sensitivity

of the AUTIMID operation should be kept firnly in mind so that

our interest does not appear to stem froa a techulcal monitoring

Distribution:

it = C/WID

2. - C/EUR

- COS, WH/

2

— COS

Philip C. KENTLANI

CROSS REPRINCE 10

NOrY

DESFAICH STABOI AND MUNGER

OSMA 25995

CLASIFICAIIOH

SECRET

SATE

* March 1970

56. 130-20

---

## Page 111

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 112

14-00000

---

## Page 113

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 114

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 115

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 116

Report: 2314

4 February 1970:

READS

THE FOLLOWING TELEX

" WE FEEL

SHOULD TRAVEL ON

NEXT

MONDAY BECAUSE THE TRIP IS SHORTER AND SHE HAS

THE ANSWERS: TO QUESTIONS RAISED.

is at home and remarks he is going out

to dinner tonight.

[See Report 262, 30 Jan

70

for memo that

---

## Page 117

2R1G

SAIT,

50T.

BATC

KiT/COG/OPS

71₫4

R.

18"3

2 MARCH 19*%.

'ABLE SECRETARLAT DISSEMILATION

im PER

SON

FiLE VA.

•705

RET

actinication

SECRET

CINDER

I PLE IN ES FILE NO.

RIAN, DO 4,

"(date ens time sled

Gy 17.592 12370

INFO:

• RETURN TO -

- BRANDI

..(plea)

CITE DIRECTOO 14234

TYPIC QUTIMID

AMAUTO

REF: OSNA-25969 (NOT SENT

cit us sixt

1. ACCORDING SENSITIVE SOURCE ON

COMPANY OF STUDY AND RESEARCH, MAIN OFFICE

ON 21 JAN REQUESTING AN INTERVIEY WITH

INTERVIEW FOR SONE TYPE PUELICITY AND GRANTED FOR

FOLLOWING

DAY

2.

IS PRIME HQS RECRUITMENT TARGET AND WE THEREFORE

INTERESTED ANY OUTSIDE CONTACT WITH SUBJECT THAT OFFERS ASSESSENT

DATA. APPRECIATE ANY INTO

CAN PROVIDE RS FULL IDENTITY

AND BIO ON

NO OBJECTION BASE

QUERYING LOCAL LNERGO, PROTECTING SOURCE OF INTU MICROFILMED

3. INDEX

FILE: 201-735206.

MAR 2 3 1970

DOC. MICRO SER.

I5-X

23/13

2

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENT:

*Reference was intercepted telephone call Prom

empluyee of

RELEASING OFFICER

requesting an interviet

with the

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GrOUp

201-735216

Decluded from mu somatio

AUTHENTICATINO

dourgracing

Ceclassification

OFFICER

REPRODUSTICN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIEITER 4 CEL D

---

## Page 118

akas

41T.

(Te

MOLE BECRSTARIAT DISSOUISATIO

MESSACE..OUM

TOTAL COPIE

SECRET

POUTING ADI ON ISiTIALD • BEEN EV

• 70

LE INDEX

O NO INDEE

O nerder roL 12-38 Hands

(classification)

SECRET

• PAGE THO

•(date ane time fled)

04 17 59 2H70

(retarence

CITE DIRECTOR

70142347

0L. 0 & HUH

NS

0

C/DO

C/WK/COG

EUR/IB

DO/1/B2

AC/WEL

RELEASING OFTICER

• - REPRODUCTIO:

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP I

SE CRET:

Excluded trom automatie

declassification

OTHER THEN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS P.._. E:TRA

AUITHENTICATING

OFFICER

---

## Page 119

RECEPCION POR EL XIV ANIVERSARIO DEL

EJERCITO POPULAR NACIONAL DE LA R.D.A.

• El agregado militar

naval y

téreo de la Embajada de la Re

Demorrática

Alemana,

Cedor di emita, sin les sen

zalez Rodiles; José Quevedo

copitán de fragata Emil Fehlauer,

rez y Emigdio Báez

ofreció anoche una recepción con

Alarina

de

Vivo.

de la.

Guerra

Revoluciona,

motivo 'del"

14 aniversario

del.

ria: así como

el primer capitsa

Ejército Popular Nacional de la

Villeras Tamaja y otros

RDA, fundado el primero de mar-

Mica es de nuestras fuerzas Are

de

1956.

madas Revolucionarias.

A la

recepción, celebrada. en

De la criebración del aniversa

La sede diplomática alemana, asis-

rio del Elêrcito Popular Nacional

tieron los

miembros del Comité

también participaron los integran

Central

de

del

Partido

Cornunista

Manuel

tes de la delegación del Ministe

Cuba,

comandantes

rio del Interior de la RDA que se

Piñeiro Loszoa, viceministro pri-

Cuba

encabezade

mero del Ministerio

encuentra

en

del

Interior;

por

el

viceministro primero.

Manuel Diaz González, jefe de la

niente general Herbert Gunsteio:

sección de Relaciones

Exteriores

agregados militares de las emba

del MINFAR:

Viera

Estrada; y Orlardo

Roberto Rodriguez

jadas acreditadas en nuestro pais;

representantes del cuerpo diplo-

Puerta

mático extranjero y funciongrios

senta mente encontral fulo...

del Ministerio

de Relaciones Ex-

teriores. de Cuba.

File: idierineie.1

---

## Page 120

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 121

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 122

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 123

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 124

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 125

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 126

Round Bod

TO

60.000/OPS

EATI

KI819

18 MES 1970

CALLE GECAT PALIAT DISCONATION

_wH/C/op

17 MOrX -

C7i0 mor

lines

(classification

SECRET

TYPIC RUDOZE

REF:

I RETURN TO ..

- DHARAT

0J TLE RIE

(pici

_leites

CITE DIRECTOR

7

0T1307

0473 (IN 026722)

ill

1. IN NOV 1967 ONE

EMPLOYEE IN ECONOMIC OFFICE

LISTED AS

2.

TIZIVEL TRICES SHOW

TRAVELLED

26 NOV G8. LEFT

21

69

3.

IF

STILL IN

ApPRECIATE STATION OBTAIN

ADDITIONAL BIO, DETAILS HER ACTIVITIES, CONTACTS, INTENDED

LENGTH OF STAY, ANY ONTARD TRIVEL PLANS, ETC.. (NOTE PARA ITO,

APPARENTLY STAYED

4.

FILE:"

ABOUT TITO JONTHS ON LAST VISIT).

201-735296,

END.OF MESSAGE:

VIL/COG/CONVENT.

C/P/FI/CI

RELEASIG OFFICER

¡er reported suspicious activitta and

races on recent arrival

unk Subject identified only ast

possibly iden with

C/KH/COG

-OPY

EUR/IB

SECRET

mestod

of

WILLIAN Y.

BROE

E..9.6

REPRUDUCTION SY OTHER TRAM THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PACHIGITED.

1201-133246

COPY NO

---

## Page 127

LADLE → GRETARIAT LISENATION

PRESCOLONT-NOTIFES

SOLANCE CORE ISOURO

' LASSEND MESSAGE "

SECRET

When Filet lei to

BEPROOUETION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITIO

AOUTRIO ANDION (MITIA

07:

• 3

CLABIFY TO CO FRE 40

NAP TO CS FREMA

C.I0H Di

....

O RETURN TO

#RANCA

AC TRON UNIT

WH8

ACTIOM NO.

FILE, VR, RION, EURb;

42L:

SECRET 170833Z FEB 70 CITE

DIRECIOR INFO WH/MIAMI

liFEB INO 26722

IYPIC QUDOZE

1. QUDOZE IN: FEBRUARY REPORI COVERS LENGTHY

CONVERSATION BETWEEN AMAUTO-LAND RECENT ARRIVAL

IDENTIFIED ONLY AS

CONCERNING CONFIDENTIAL

DETAILS HIS MISSION ACTIVITIES.

AIRLIST SHOW

ARRIVING ID FEBRUARY, CARRYING

2. WOULD APPRECIATE TRACES.

3.. FILE 65-6-44/3. GP-1

SECRET

MICROFILMEO

MAR ≤ 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

: A3

PS

B& b

DET

FE

865-6-44/3

ES COPY

SECRET

401-23529€

14 7e640

---

## Page 128

14-00000

CABLE SECRETAGLAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE CORY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ISTAL-COPIES

SECRET AC

(when Fillow in)

ODUCTION OF TRISCO

97:.

AT;

E.J8a.

CLASSRI TO CB MIRRO

RASP TO CS ARE NO

FILE, VR EURG RIAN...

AETION LO.

18.0

SECRET 171446Z FEB 70 CITE

5440

DIRECTOR INFO

TYPIC AMAUTO QUIIRID

00

REF:

NO KNOWLEDGE

ALSO NO

HOSPITAL

NO LISTING

ALL IN

PHONE DIRECTORY. NO STATION TRACES ON

OR

2.

SECRET

FILE: 201-735296.

GP- 1.

RỘU TING ANT DA (MI

- ARAMEN

17 FEB INO 27047

V.

AT

Wheten

63 CO/T

SECRET

17 Fit 20

201-735216

---

## Page 129

ABLE-SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

EASON PHOT

• ASSIPICO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES D LE

HOUTINO AND ON INITIALA-MINE

SECRET

6n0w

(Wiron Fill os In)

Bisorres

ERPRGOUEPION OF EHIS CORT

NOBILI

can raision ? Back i ta aro

LUNT TO CA PLE NO

CR30N'B1

0 regio

tracing board.

ACTION

UNIT

24 11

ACTION

FI, V Kilav, AVRE,

341

SECRET 1614262 FED 70 CITEL

8464

16frem$ 20187

DIRECTOR

TYPIC ANAUTO/GUTIMID

REF?

DIRECTOR 009871.

1O SEE ALSO THO

COXVERSATIONS IN GUIIMID REPOKI 2283,

POUCHED 11 FEBRUARY, WOMAN IDENTIFIES SELF AS

IDENTIFY TELEPHONE

NUMBER AS BELONGING TO

NOT IN TELEPHONE 5O0K OF NOVEMBER

1969. NO TRACES SIATION FILES UNDER ANY VARIATIONS NAMES.

NO PLAZA CARBALLO ON CITY MAP BUT PROBABLY IN NEW SECTION

CITY.

2. BECAUSE OF CONFUSION AND CONTRADICTIONS IN CONVER-SATIONS REPORTED

IN 2292 APPEARS POSSIBLE WOMAN MAY HAVE

BEEN SEEKING AMOROUS ADVENTURE WHICH. MAY ALSO HAVE SZEN

BASED ON CHANCE

SOCIAL ENCOUNIER OR ON REPUTATION AMAUTO-I

AS "DON JUAN" "PROBLEM NATURALLY COMPLICATED EY FACT

THAT WHEN SHE TALKING TO AMAUTO-I SECRETASY SHE DAS IN

FACT TALKING TO HIS WIFE:

AT NO TIME IN THE CONVEASATIONS

IN QUESTION DID SHE GECOME AWARE THIS FACT.

SECRET

impute -1

---

## Page 130

CABLE SCCRETARIAT DISSERERATESN

Bit RACE COOT

CLASSIFTES MESSAGE

pete. Filled la!

Ores Oi

CATEST TO tO FEE NO.

TOTAL COPIES

Вт:.

DE FIOR WAIT

6i Fru, 13

I PAGE 2

RiESECRET

3.

NOTE ALSO THAT IN GUTINID 2247 SHE FIRSI IDENTIFIED

SELF AS WIFE

BUT. IN SUESEGUENT

CONVERSATION WIIN ARAUTO-1. SAID HER HUSBAND WAS PILOT.

WILL ADVISE ASY ADDITIONAL INFO ON IDENILTY OF

WOMAN RECEIVED FROS SUSEQUINS EUT EELIEVE UNLIKELY ANYTHING

HERE WHICH CAN SE ENPLOITED.

5.

FILE 20:-735286. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 131

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIRATION

ADVANCE DORY

at..

FILE, VR

LASSIFiEO MESSAGE.

TOTAL COUGS AC

SECHET :

(hen Filiad In,

BEDROOUS?.

CROP INIS COPY PROMIDiTIO

DaDER,

BIED TO

O me no 'O mirime to

1• ANCH

EURE, CERAS

3464

SECRET 161426Z FED TO CITE

DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMAUTO QUIIMID

REFS. DIRECTOR 009871

1.. SEE ALSO TWO CONVERSATIONS IN QUIIMID REPORI 2288,

POUCHED IL FEBRUARY. WOMAN IDENIIFIES SELF AS

GUSEQUIN IDENTIFY TELZPHONE

16Fte A0 20187

NUMSER AS BELONGING TO

AY !:

дз».

PS

NOT IN TELEPHONE BOOK OF NOVEMBER

1969. NO TRACES STATION FILES UNDER ANY VARIATIONS NAMES.

NO PLAZA CARBALLO ON CITY MAP BUT PROBABLY IN NEW SECTION

CITY®

E.. BECAUSE OF CONFUSION AND CONTRADICTIONS IN CONVER-SATIONS REPORBED

IN 2288 APPEARS POSSIBLE WORAN MAY NAVE

SEEN SEEKING AMOROUS ADVENTURE WHICH MAY ALSO HAVE BEEN

BASED ON CHANCE SUCIAL ENCOUNTER OR ON REPUTATION AMAUTO-I

AS "DON

JUAN"• PHOBLEM NATURALLY COMPLICATED EY FACT

THAT WHEN SHE TALKING TO AMAUTO-I SECRETARY SHE WAS IN

FACT TALKING

TO HIS WIFE. AT NO TIME IN THE CONVERSATIONS

IN QUESTION DID SHE BECOME AWARE THIS FACT.

1676670

ES CUPY

SECRET

i?. 735241

---

## Page 132

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

Daorrio

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET inS

(tien Filled In)

D res

'er loser to ço see no.

ETION SAT

- FILE, VR

PAGE 2

CA6A SECRET

3.

NOTE ALSO THAT IN GUTIMID 2247 SHE FIRST IDENIIFIED

SELF AS WIFE

EUT IN. SUBSEQUENT

CONVERSATION WITH AMAUTO-I SAID HER HUSBAND WAS PILOT.

4O WILL ADVISE ANY ADDITIONAL INFO ON IDENTITY OF

WOMAN

RECEIVED FROM QUSEGUINS BUT GELIEVE UNLIKELY ANYTHING

HERE WHICH CAN BE EXPLOITED.

S. FILE 301-7352860 GP-I

SECRE I

H in a

SACẺET®

---

## Page 133

14-00000

SECRET

---

## Page 134

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 135

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 136

SECRET

---

## Page 137

SECRET

---

## Page 138

-...

SEGRET

---

## Page 139

SECRET

---

## Page 140

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 141

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 142

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 143

14-00601

---

## Page 144

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 145

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 146

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 147

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 148

14-0000

---

## Page 149

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 150

...... Mp,,

---

## Page 151

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 152

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 153

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 154

14-00000

---

## Page 155

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 156

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 157

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 158

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 159

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 160

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 161

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 162

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 163

VISTAIN

SECRET

WADED 12R PETE

• Chief of Stattoa

WATTS

SO WELLNE SOURIS

ICELY QUALIFIED DISE

CAN I POCH NONDA

-Culel, Bestern Hendspbore Divisdon

MYSES Contloued Operattonal Interest 1o-ABAUTO?

Action Required: See Paragraph 5, below.

References

A.

OSM9-J1585

• B.

9655

Headquarters has just completed,. uth the able belp of

AMEDIT-2, a thorough review of QUDOZS tapes for the last quarter

of 1969.

We have

added pertinent file material where necessary

in order to round out the picture, but the review emerges

primarily as an assessment of AYAUTOl as a personality.and as a

recruitment target.

We forward this study as an attachment bereto,

under separate cover. for your consideration.

2. Headquarters bas not lost its keen interest in ALAUTO 1

as a long-range recruitment target, foreseeing the possibility of

defecting him in place (at least for the renainder of his posting

or defecting him outrigbt (which would admittedly be

less destrable).

In line with these purposes, we offer the follow-

1og readings, which may or may not be entirely applicahle to

AMAUTO-1:

AHAUTO-1 is a shrewd, articulate person who has

under nornal circunstances.

has been

of himself and of the backing which be thinks he bas from

/continued/

Attachment:

As Described Para. 1 above (USC)

Distribution:

2 - COS

M/Att. USC

1 - COS,

Wil/Miami

W/Att. USC

sitt

CROSS REFERENCE 10

Distribution:

- EUR/IB

WH/ COG/CHRONO

- #H/COG/OPS

ờ 31

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MINDER

OSX#-11726

8 E CRET

OFFICE

WH/COG/OPS

OFFICE SYMBOL

AC/WH/COG

DUTY

=50. 1370

13:18

32 06.20

CHIKE STMBOL

C/EUR

CATE

'" (

DATEL 2 FEB 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER

=-201-735296

2/4/70

COORDIMATING

_OFFICIR'S MAMLE

[EXT

17144

53

UBE SERVIOUS EDITICH.

DISPATCH

---

## Page 164

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DiSPATCH

SECRET

OSHE - 11726

Nevertheless, he has recelved some rather telling

eriticise of & professional nature, even though it is

unknown whether this criticism also touches on his personal

•Perhaps because of this, ANAUTOl seems to be very

careful in whatever he does,

avolding mistakes that would en-

danger his position, and

avoiding any real or fancied

provocation.

There seems to be little question that AMAUTO, 1g

approachable,

although he would probably reaist any

indirect approach in which "cards are not laid on the table."

It appears very Ilkely that his character ia basically locom

patible with the system he serves (with profound nisgivings

as to its efficlency).

The very fact that he has made open remarks

bis unhappiness with PBRUIN and his non-Marxist leadings in

an office he himself points out is "bugged by the other side"

could be interpreted as a signal fron him, Indicating that be

is ready to listen.

of a man who belleven he can "jump. off" at any time, 11

necessary Note that he tends to live with critician from

his home office rather than try to get out from under

perhaps meaning that he would not accept a PCS assignment

home.

•(The

attachment bereto shows him describing a

compatriot who wighes to reture home as

"a fool.")

said binself that

he believes ANTHUG-1 plans a major purge

for mid-1970, and he might consider himself as a victim of

that purge.

A fact which might affect timing is the arrival of

& child in Hay.

If he were to perguade his wile (and his

governaent to

have the child in

rather than return

home

for it, he would have a good excuse for requesting the

presence of

his oldest child (the only one who is' now at

home).

If his ife returnshone for delivery,

he would (for

a tine

at least) have three hostages in PBRUNEN instead

of one.

1.

UFGA-19006 reported a 1964 attempt to get at AMAUTO-]

through his vife's relatives.

The consensus at the time was

that AHAUTO-1 is probably immune to this type of approach.

Headqueronat

therefore, still opts for a logically developed,

recruitment build-up.

3.

In line with the above, Headquarters

certain lines

of action which

night be followed in an atterpt to

know more about AMAUTO-1:

These actions might seem somewhat easier

from

our perspective than they, actually are in the field, but we

propose then for your consideration.

The man handling the new construction work (paragraph 16

of the attachment) should be checked out.

Tho established pattern of lonely automobile tripg

outside the capital (see paragraph 22 of the attachment)

might be instructive to follow down. At least, the situation

might offer a chance for approach or for subsequent handling.

ANAUTO]'s desire to see nore people at home,

indication that he

discusses inportant

matters

becomes doubly interesting with the possibility of

house next door (see paragraph 18 of the attachment).

person who owng the sartment building might offer a fruitful

lead.

The apparent hostility of

the current mald (see para-

graph 24 and 27 of the attachment) night offer further .

exploitation.

•500

CLAGOIAICATIOPS

S BCRB T

DIGENO

2

---

## Page 165

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

61998.81000099

13917-0311

OSM7-11726

ALAUTO/!'s desire to affillate hinself with an

exercise group (see parngraph 26b of the

might-offer a possibility to put an access agent next

to him.

The circuastance would be relatively normal, Bot

calculated to arouse his susuicions..

the use of someone

of HOLADY nationality night,

in fact, help to allay what

is evidently a tendency AMAUTO/l has of suspecting provo-

cation.

Headquarters would greatly appreciato the oppor

tunity of examining AMAUTO/l's X-rays.

In this connection,

ve would like to see an investigation

of the physician used

on this natter: (see

i Karagraphs 31 and 32 of the attachment).

_We would like to have

assessment'of the

mentioned in paragraph 8 of the attachment.

4.

At the same time, ve would appreciate it 1f

follow down any of the leads stemming from AMAUTO/l's time in

We are trying to trace his entrance back in the 1950's

and as much of his time here as possible, and perhaps

Station can develop leads on the persons mentioned in paragraph

24 of the attachment hereto, especially in reference to the

brother loft with the house. (Note Below.)

Michael V. SLATINSKI

I would appreciate your giving personal attention

to. thls

matter, because it is rare

that ve have such a detailed

assessment as we have in this case.

Edward D. SABETAY

140.

CLASSUICAIION

SECRET

201-235296

AGENO

3.

---

## Page 166

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 167

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 168

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 169

14-00000

SOMET

---

## Page 170

14-00000

---

## Page 171

14-00000

---

## Page 172

--i-

---

## Page 173

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 174

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 175

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 176

*:01.7.35296

---

## Page 177

14-00000

Manitr

3r...

60.%6:

TO

-711/1519

¿ Lebro. 1070

1S. ran:

01.10:

i] no more

Miscreene.

13

arum to..

BIANCH

CuaD

o/rur. v3.

(lassilicationg

SECRET

(date and Bima tilad!

000371

su2b98}

• CITF. DIRECTOR

13 19 002F070

TYPIC

AMAUTO QUTIMID

REF:

05114-25870 GiOT SENT L

1. REF CONTAINS RUTIMID REFORT NUMER 2274 DATED 9 JAN 70

COCERVING CALL BY ONE

PROVOCATIVE CIRCUMSTANCES.

TO AMAUTO-1, UNDER SOMMYHAT

DESCRIBES SELF AS WIDOW OF

THR DOCTOR WIIO WAS DIRECTOR OF

SIS LEAVES PHONE NUNDER

WILICIE

(21.ACK UNKNOWN) ,

TRIES VAINLY TO

TILICE TURGUCH PILONE COMPANY:

2. REQUEST

TRACE PHONE NUMBER

AND DEVELOFIENT OF CONTACT, SINCE ANAUTO-1 AGREED NEES HER. REQUEST

CHECK

IN ATTENDT IDENTIFY

TERS WERE NO IDENTIFIABLE HRS TRACES OY

OR

3. FILE: 201-735296:

END OF MESSAGE

DH/COG/COMMENTS: Ref contained phone tap information as above,

plus other details hinting at some sort of provocation of Aluto-l,

onorational lead

Field had not alcrted us to this possible

C//WIt/CCG

C/E/F1/Ci

E/IB/PT

worl

- CCOCOLLA

RELEASIDE DEFICEA

SECRET

0213:1114

6998

.... TI

...

NC/ISHID

137il70

AUTHERTICATINO

702251

REPODUCTICE EY OUCH THEN THE ISSUNG OFFICE SEE 7.3 5-2%6

---

## Page 178

finite sai

11157

$ HC K222

71:11

1:.

1010

2E: 2 2MR LACE 1929

Ra bore :

troleronce numberg

SEC R.FT

INkO:

TYPIC LISAGA

RET:

CITE DIRECTOR

1021

Diz Fari

3V NI

7

000947

0120 (IN 020665)

1.' REQUEST STATION TRY GET' AN ORIGINA, COPY FOR RETHNION.

FALONG PUS, REQUEST PICTOCOPY. URS LOST INTERESTSD KNOWING

ADTEa/AAUTO-1'S/ORDEN RE BOU DESTHIDEZION IS ITS OWN AURA OR

STENS FROM HES NOS, IF YOU HAVE ANY WAY TO FIND OUT.

2. FILE 201-735296, 201-805417, 50-0-119/3.

END DO MESSAGE

NIL/COG/COMMENT:

kei reported that 11N0T0-1

has

recdived fion

3o copies of book concentng

LISiGA-1 case, CUPLUTE-i say hase possibility of

obtaining copy for us:

ANUTO-1 reportedly has ordares

no distribution of book outside ciriclal

Conmunity.

C/VIT/CC

EUX/IB

WELLIANY. BROD

C/WID

HELCAS.NO CIFICER

C98-2420020 21512:25

02.0DCC0E23 CHoK 1A: 186 167u6HE6RC6 16ER&CHED.

oi fictn

corrie.

---

## Page 179

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Kestern Hemisphere Division

no.

Chief, European Division:

Chief of Statton

1R0u

Chief of Station, WH/Mant:

SUBAC

TYPTC QUDOZE

•0

• AMЛUTO-1

ACTION RIQUIRID - REFERINCES

FROCISSING ACMA

MATIO ON DOING

NO DIDDING NOURID

LORET GUALFID DESE

•ICAN AIDGE DIDERMO

Action Required: FYI

References:

A .

B

C.

OSMA-25745,

5 December 1969

DIRECTOR

_ 004676,

23 January 1970

WILL

6341, 26 January. 1970

WH

has been unable to develop any leads or

traces

the individual for whom

AMAUTO-1 worked in the States. Local LNERGO was also

queried with negative resulte.

NeIvin D.

KERSCIEN

Distribution:

- chief,

#HD

Chief,

EUR

- COS

CROSS REFERENCE TO

• DESPAION STRASOI AND ALMOIR

UFAA - 1770

CLASNHICATON

SECRET

DATI

TROS TIL MIMOSE

-201-735296

---

## Page 180

/Plsicicl.ii

271=1

6 3,8 Ü75

---

## Page 181

TRANSMITTAL SLIP 2T

Fele 20

TO:

ROOM NO.

REMARKS:

DU-3

file in

AMAUTO - 1

201

FROM:

OM NO

ROOM NO 3 9

1FEB 33 24

BUILDING

REPLACES FORM 36-8

#NICH MAY BE USED

EXTENSION

734L

(0)

---

## Page 182

LAIDI, Ahmed

Algoria

903:. Oudja, Morocco

dob: 20 April 1934

Hared August 1953 advisor on Africa, Affaire in presidency and row is lisird as Ben

Eella's chief of Cabinct.

mile he is a relative rerconsr to scene here and not kner.

personally to the irbassy, Et appears likuly that he is cios: tó Pon Bella and therefor

a ussiul contact.

Dip't: 1#652.

4/10/63

In accordance with a decree published on 12 November 1963,

Ahmed Laidi

has been appointed

chef du cabiret of Presedent Ben Bella.

Journal Offic:

15 Nov 1963.

Algiers

SubS 16 new Director Genelo of Political MIScirs, 15%. (AElerS INTiL OGi, 21 Oct 6i

filed: ALg/Cuba

Described as reserted, in

Ing foreign office in 195: and although technically still number three run in. fonoff, hes

ed to function sore on special assignment basis than as prit of chain of cormand. His mc.

reccat maig project has been & ndung 2.

Algiers Embtel 660, 23 Sepü 65, ALG/UN

Appointed Algerian Ankassador to Spain, October, 1906

A-159, 25 Oct 66

Filed Mgeria/Spain

---

## Page 183

VH/000 70-38

36 January 1970

NRMORANDUN FOR: SB/C

-ATTANTION

SUBJECT

Connie Terry

Cuban Charge d'Affatrs Cousents on

Czechoslorakian Situation

REVERKICS: OSMA-25789, dated 7 January 1970

1. The following contents of the Cuban Minister to

Spain, Guillerno RUIZ Peres, reflect Cuban thoughte on the

Czechoslovaklan situation:.

The Soviet occupation o1 Crechoslovakia has been

a disaster; bowever,

criticizing the Soviet action

would mean taking aides with the Azericans.

A friend

may be criticized in private but publicly be abould be

defended.

(QUDOZE, 19. Novenber.)

The Cubans have to

side with the Soviets for military and econoule reasons

and because, whether right of wrong, they belong to the

Bano Ideological group.

Cuba had and still has enormous

discretancies gith the Soviet Unlos, Chias, and the United

States but reighing the differences

Cuba is with Communisu

and opposed to Capitallas.. (QUDOIS, 3 Noveuber.)

2.

The above information was obtained from a Sensitive

Source and should be protected as such.

C/a/COG/OPS

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - WH/COG/Chrono

1;- 201-735296

- Czech

---

## Page 184

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSIA LOT MOTINEO

once can, ! issueo

LI ROTTED

_CASSIFICO MESS'GE"

/ SECRET

IntAL COPIES.

REPROQUCTION OR THiR COPY PROMISITO

ROUTING ANOION INITIALS GETS OT

Tit8

I

A-ARE TO CE MEE DO.

O FRE AN O RETURN TO

E| PIE, VE, RI/AN, EUR 6, clers

• " AA CA

UN 8

STION NO

852

SECRET: 2615252 JAN 70 CITE WH/MIAMI (6341

DIRECTOR INFO

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF:

DIRECTOR 004676

UNABLE TO DEVELOP LEADS TO AMAUTO/I'S

FRIEND

_HAVE REQUESTED CHECK

FROM LOCAL LNERGO AND WILL ADVISE.

•2. FILE: 281-735256.

SECRET

26 JAN IN 0 1 3247

A3 L'll,

DSG AFD

FE

SECRET

291-735246

26 SANTO

---

## Page 185

BOUTINO AND/OR INITIALE - SIER SE

LASAGI FOI

2#10:

JAIT:

DIT:

SATE:

5511/ COG/ OPS

7144

R.

1819

21 JANUARY 1970

CABLI SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

zif

nor PEB

ETURN TO -

— BRANCH

O FILL Ma

Dine me es rivino.

COMF:

WH-8

fILe. va,

(a isolation)

SECRET

folital

Eratorance

CITE DIRECTOR 0 1 676

2300 dio lon70

Г WH/NTAMI

INFO:

TYPIC AMAUTO

I. THROUGH QUDOZE AMAUTO-1 HAS AT LEAST TWICE TALKED ABOUT HIS

EXPERIENCES IN

AREA IN 1957 WORKING IN MEAT BUSINESS WITH

ONE

HQS TRICES CANNOT IDENTIFY THIS.

PERSON. REQUEST

TRY.

2. FILE 201-735296.

indent.

END OF MESSAGE

AN

12

Walle

WILLIAN V

BROE

C/WHD

RELEASINO OFFICER

E/IB

C/WH/COG

COOSDIRATINO OFFICINI

SECRET

ON FACER

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBSTED

211-235246

---

## Page 186

3/wsn

SECRBT

chic? of statson

Chiel.

European Division:

carol, voosera Henlophere Divialon

colot of Stallon, guiand

OPRRATIONAL ARTT

(201-735290)

Dole ronce: DIRICTOR 62752

"FOrmardoS DerOUIED 18 ANOT ropOrE, OTA-1838, contalaing

blodaLa and CONDORRO On SUbJeCe, PrOsi IDEATITI, SãO da SUDJACE

O1 201-926223 nod ol rolerenco.

Albore &. DAaZIdEB

Attacheent:

OTA 1659 1/9

2.

Identity ws/c

Distribution,

C/53 0/a88 1 0/0,

winte 1 h/s,

8. u/s/c

2 u/m/c

2 0/0/c

MICROFILMED

FEB 0 g 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

204 4 7220

z titt.

DOUOIEATEIBIS

UPAA - 1690

És"cổPy

1879

201-798900

---

## Page 187

moons pat

FE8 U9 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER

-PS. COPY

LENN GeTU

201-795376

---

## Page 188

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 189

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 190

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 191

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 192

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 193

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 194

731-735396

---

## Page 195

Address In 1.8.:

SÃO 5a 11ES Avenue, Vland, ila..

phose 371-3477

Isolomone In d.s.:

From mido. toter 1068 until

he.

Porked nt the Dollilas inlt preserves

TE COPY

160n81nuad

eS/0.200.

551-735246

---

## Page 196

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 197

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 198

INSTRUC HONG

PRiOR TO FILING

2.

And loses 2umbish proshcheck tir

Destroy front cover shret. unless it primards

signitcare artion lakesh es, Gummente coquis.

iny presurvation...

FROM:

AID/

1O: ACHION BRANCH

Il file no. and title shown are nut proper.

inser proper file no. below and forward

docuriont to RID/AN

PHOPLHALLENO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTIÓN I ON BACK. IF ASPROPRIATE

CONNE ITS

RID/AT

EXI. 7670

TO

HOOM

NO

EP -499

• GASO

TUBS CT 7

DATE

dule

15 fou

_OFFICERS

INITIALS

@ipo66+6 158281660

C1

4/=

7.

0.

San

3, 506.

RH

INTENDS I

SR

10.

12

13.

1d.

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMIO

ASTACID T

INDEE

6100

USE PREVIOUS

FILE TITLE

FILE DUMDERIPRIUAHTCOOET

201-735396

DUCUNENI GATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

05M1

25306

SECRET

05009

---

## Page 199

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 200

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 201

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 202

M.T.

- -

---

## Page 203

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 204

l's silao 'Fores

Aurito Acuiar, ien.

1 = cio ins Coinid Cip.

aires cariano.

i la sido libario da dita.

gerara.

Teiro da Graça

1856-08

'Es

o dirico de Boulita

cajo

•ede Dareira Brito.

ce sacaithes.

tes,

: Monico des bei diment

issinas

rasgitois Civis

Unicrisedo

10. p.C. a

desalasio

?2a138) 2133

1.201

Prof. Dr.

adJunto:

uracia: Pto!.

Jordo

Maavel

nogue Pinto

ECORONICOS:

Tene

Siadeire

• de

CaT

22:eas: Dr. Cladido

8. 07:+277

re Adeleit

sinies Marinho.

Diretores dos serviços de sedlcias

L° Acaseins

¡ripediais medica)

1.° Alasselta

,Tratica médica)

3o sedicios

¡Paio cota =idica)

'' erres:

1.: BiO GLO BiLOBOS ADIUDeS

"rieres dest de Sítio Bravo

saiao-PErão a Castelo Branco

periço:

curge

rasto de Oilvel.

Bortes Alcaandie

Amiera Cercia da Costa

12 sumo Geraldes

Gorsicão miliar

inoista do Serviço do Saúdo

Tire cario e 15010

tiao ca lobização do

Regi-

peta de Serriço

de

Saúde

meetta da artillaria

Ligeira,

3.+ 2

(§:cia Crang)

Tia. 2007.

Geiro de

Metilização

"tiracria

2

¿inda de Eacio isaba!

:'Cross da Coapanhias

¿* Scido

Tin? asis3

•ta =ilitaarão do serviço

SE BISCO EL' 2

Carera de firo

Direciar:

L.• Crorgts

carigol't 16855056166)

Direirio Ir", Da. Báricio do Vaio Po

2° Ciraryla

(sizcicias opera:ória)

: Fiol. Dr. Lúa JosE-MarlEs

JA Chra-gia

reaciogia draraca)

Director:

дт!.

33. Ferasado iberto

Soma Se Direita

#° Cirurala

icitalca ciraraical

Sérviços do esprcialidades

tiralesia

1bar fe Err?;

rustado.

Gierrinalartagalogla

Direcher: Ur, Caries Aitriid dig Sadica

Ciales Osocirica ¡chiolis do Dr. Daniel

des Saltad

Teirl. gais1

Direcini: Pros. Dr. AiDo-dao da CoBiA

Barrus.

DIrecior: Dr, Learesido de AibuGuerqUe

Dermalajesta

Direchut: Dr.

Polases Bapilaia

. Ortopedia

1 Dirertop:

Fro!.

Dr. Fernando siberte

serra do Olivelra.

Pediatria

Direciür: Dr. Josd dos sunlos Dessa

, Folguiatria (sanicúzio Sena)

Telef, 15023

Direcior: Dr. Antonto leariques de Ela

Nunes ViceDic

S'earologia

Teiel. 21093

Direcior: D:.

António Henriques de Kilas

Nuces Vicente.

Ginccologia

merecidr.

rectos ier.co araucira

Pi-ncisco Manuel

Incunolisiole la

Director: 2508, Di: Jest de iourdia s80s

Cialca de doençus latecchasas

: Direcior: faço.

diartus padicalans

8100%- siricina o cirurgia

Q C 0- Obriririda

Q P- PriquiaL!a

inversacria

cheice

cilniess

de desviço.

Serolsos complementares

de disgodalico

e terapiulida

creies de aerricos:

Aivaro da Caria Varian

Teodoro

Perna-ie

Mlendia

jou

cia:do de Asuia?

6nab6es cinicas: Vago.

Serricos tármartulless

Diferior dOs sertidos ferriGitalICOs:

V.:20.

Chile cos

nilt woice Maithas

i.n'culratros farmacésticos"

Viria Dias Legro dirra

MariA LuLA Ales do Feiça ATrade

---

## Page 205

14-00000

• TA8 990 16191098 Marickfa

nord nacir

lastituio de Assistacia

Nacional cos Tuberecloses

¡Delegação da Zona Centrod

Belrin, In16) e 58led

da cinerição "urg.

6+4 8 48420.

delegando: lur, Ju:è virus it, nina thisa

ateia.

Contro de Diagnó:tico e Profila-

СеттА ди дал''я

xia da

ZoAd

Cintro IS C. G.)

sir

•a da ceniriçoo

Mircurs dos san

Arcald Missala 2a500

Teicia, 20:6J o 36164

Canericio da slira souria'

Pipiado Sinicina da Soodeca

D:.

simbes terra.

Meirs Farde

tonel

alisano Carralho.

l'erula do l'afirmair do 1Pr. Aberta

da touarsa..

‹Edificio dos Hospitais da Universidade,

ШоТРаВІдСОР!

data

Dr.

diario, Migual Gao

Pinio

Chele

da secreiaria: Naid Maria Ceris

Casteio Brasco.

clinicos.

prata:

Dr.

paulo de Albüguenger

•airo do

De Mario Tinhes

• Folhadria

C. Ouretra

Picto

Di." Sidia de ler.

aurinaien:

rediriristai Siarta

Laranici:o.A. Lege.

errais de 1.°

Duice

de

0.

Leite

Serraços de enfei magem:

Fa:esmeire-encic?

diaria jorge do lo

,de

CarTilho.

Milltar

Hospital reglanal a,° 2

Avenida Sardiaa Botanico

Teiol. 1349!

Dr. Abilio de Almeida

Henrio ues:

¿ino Goines de Maios.

Joie Pedro dos 5aa:08

ciais

=.."

Marla

10s Gomes.

Inspecção Geral dos Activi

dados Económicas

• (Zona de Fiscalização n." 6)

Arcaica Sã da basicio, 01

Tciels. 2514: 0 24708

Inspilor: Atinando Lourenço duelho diro l

m.n.05. 611

Pernicir de Dia Fiasco: Judo Rui Pestana

Manues

Ainiesca

Ad, 116do

suna: Judo Coutinho, Vilor.

Instituto de Assistência Psi-

cridrrica

Deleação da Zona Creiro

Dispensário de Higiene e Profi.

laxia Mentais

1r. Sil da Bandeira, 85, Biel, 23203

Deieçud.9: Dr.

srcreeerte.

bomm.

Prata De Acido Bisse

Inspecção-Geral dos Produ-

tos Agricolas o Industriais

3. Delegação

Rua Auguria, 31

Telel. 22078

Instituto de Coimbra

Rua do Lilia, lo Selei, 3÷633

Presideste:

wane...rey

Doutor Diojo Pacheco do

Vlis-gressiente: Doutor Outine tre liraga

Roberto

O:s.+

Agenie

engerharia

serenier

caririios de 2.0

misaPito Pina de Airarid

crole Asena: Carios Subiro de Carta

Antal

Arnaldo Miranca Darbis.

D:

Francise,

Teixeir

Queirde

jiio draour: Bairido Cieiro.

Jove

Bajudo Sacheio de Agia

fesaseiro: Dr. Scão José Lodaio Gut

marics,

Instituto de Criminologia

Jairo de Santana, seich, 22aid

¡funciona no alilliin da coleta

denticariana)

lestituto da desistencia

D:. Edbarto Herrigues

seceis: Da. Mirio Artur da

à Familio

D:."

Miaria Rosa Graça de io

(Dologação)

Antonio lira

Bue De. Sanica Rocha, da l'es, Stica! Aérasio:

Pernaselo Nairaie Coro

19 de Fgudinis

Driaçada: Aieira Luisa de 858ia Costa ! Satriaro: Aipoto Heariques Asião

instituto ladeatrie

Biei trei

Ditalia,

Astreia Visito i

Pau

Diretins

'nistório de ciir

dire: 1.

Escoareso pereise di

"ad?

siri

serio da cara prin

Asiraio Felas:.

832.

Facilla

AEros Casa:

Da Polio Gogrise, Perca

Gintes Pinio. era

3..

Yeraady lires G.a:

Miniel

Ross Sabina 2

lastiduto de Medicina de;s:

dificlo da Facuidade de sirire

Telé?. Bida

Carida

Derriço:

sereia

Guria

G441.4Y

Han?'

joaccion

B: Fia ea Sil

Tarais Dis 1.

ce 0:

D-•

rapi

Ces:a

Risei ?..

leicencour: de se.

D:.

Miguei

ca franco :.

raia.

Conscido Médica Lege:

Presidente:

Dr. Asg-ca ?!.

J.r: Bag Ar.rt

8:51.

Dr.

Vora:s:

Pas: De. Aibitiad de Birra:

A: 0a10 Acarigas ii Gira. 1

Cind'a do bas Pen!":

Esserto Hesro..:

de

Institado Necional de Trata

lio e Provicincia

Delagação

Fiso Aurasia, J8, ieii, mi. i

—nes

D..

-Amadeu José de Sua ten'i

BATEI

deiteis

Tribaael do Trebaita

Sica Amassia. 1° :°

*eie?. 2:59

Frelias

---

## Page 206

14-00000

t'tee ., da.n..'

iotaa

---

## Page 207

SECRET

R61-1552460

1009011

---

## Page 208

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 209

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 210

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 211

DISPATCH

SADIATI

8RCR CRET

DU PELLO FOR SPLINE

НО ОРОСИС POUID

ORY QUALIFID DESE

Chief,

chief Turope Division

Restarn Henlaphere Diriaton

Chloe 0s StatIon, MH/Man.

Calot of Station

TYPIC/AMAUTO/Cancollation of PON's

E . CRIEND

Reference: DIRECTOR 56464

1.

Please cancel all clearances mentioned.

.In Reference.

Since

AMAUTOLZ's separation from AMAUTO-l's household and her

emigration to the United States with her husband,

AMAUTO-5,

we no longer bave an oporational interest in her.

As you

know; AMAUTO-3 was used solely as an intermedlary for

a warm.

approach to AMAUTO-2.

This was accomplished, and we have had

no further contact with her. No Station contact was ever made

with AMAUTO1:

2:

After the departure of AHAUTO-? from AMAUTO»1"g

household, the Station soon learned of her replacement and

this inforsation was passed to the QUSEQUIN'S.

It was decided

thrt the QuSEqUIns would attempt to recruit the new domestie,

but for unknowu reasons, contact mas never sade.

No belleve

that there 13 a new domestic nor working in the

AMAUTO-1

howehold, but we have no details on ber.

Tovara R. SACODE

SACODER

Distribution:

28 - C/THD

2 - C/ BUB

EXPINN SI2РEШ AND MCHOSA

OSMA 25710

BECRET

247₴

5 December 1969

ES A 0035501-045516,88

201-735:2461

---

## Page 212

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 213

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 214

ARD-DAINITIALS - SILE DI

DAIG:

JN:T:

ATI

BATE:

HIE/COG/OPS

7141/1519

21 Noverber

:ABLE SICRITARIAT DISSEMINATION

TASECRET

1969

O INDEE

I FILE IN CS FILE AO.

I NO INDEX

.. GRANCH

"ONF:

L'HE

-FILE. VA.

AlAN EURE GICA

(classificasion)

SECRET

Idate and line tied!

-(olita)

(rafarance

CITE DIRECTOR

2!??

55464

INFO:

WH/ MIAXI

TYPIC AJAUTO

REFS:

A. OSii-11585*

B... DIRECTOR 49352**

C.

8256 (IN 47801) *44

1. HOS INFORMED THAT PON'S ON ANAUTO-2, 3,4, AND 5 HAVE

EXPIRED AND WILL BE CLOSED IF PRQ PART I AND II NOT FORWARDED BY

END NOVEMBER, THESE AGENTS MAY NO LONGER PROVIDE ACCESS TO AJAUTO-1

NECESSARY FOR PROPER TARGETTING, BUT VIEN CONTINUING HIGH INTEREST

IN ANAUTO-1 AND POSSIBILITIES MENTIONED REF C, REQUEST SOONEST

EXPRESSION STATION INTEREST.

2. FILE: 201-845515, 845516, 84551%, 845518, 735296.

END OF MESSAGE

... WH/CODENTS: #Detailed continued interest in AMAUTO-1 as a

target,

described sone vulnerabilities, and requested comments

on

developing approaches:

**Notified field of expiration of POA covering AlAUTO 2 on

il October 69 and requested expression of continued interest in him.

**Yotified Has that WAUTO-2 was being dismissed fron household

employmeat with AJAUTO-1 family

Also

RELEASING CIFICEN

COCAINATING OFFICER?

SECRET

(CONTINUED

chiue

AUTHENTICATINO

OFfICER

REPRODUCTION CY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHICITED.

COPY NO.

• 7

---

## Page 215

14-00000

OUTGO ANDION LIALS • SILE OR

TRAGE FOR!

ECrIESI

SECRET

0R101

VAITI

GATI

DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSESINATION"

- FEA

• NO INDEX

RETURN TO : BRANCH

O PILE AID

OPLE IN CÉFILENO.

CONE:

feeso and Bieno filed

SECPET

(alita)

-trolmeanco number)

CITE DIRECTOR

56464

7

TO

PAGE TVO

said that A-2 was avallable for part-time work with wife of

AlICTOl and suggested therefore that Hqs act cancel POA.

(Note:

All subsequent AJAUTOs are possible access agents.)

DC/WH/COC

C/SiR/FI/CI

FILIATINO OPFICEN

COORSINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

AC/WHI

Gnour

ta do tea

supersetle

War That

coad

pa! 3 116; 0190.

REPRODI. ON EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

DIFICIA

COPY NU.

---

## Page 216

14-00000

TO

SLADER WILL CHICA CLASSIE

TION TOP ANU DOTTOM

CONFIDENTIAL

SACHET

DEFICIAL BOLTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORE'S:

DATE

INITIALS.

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCUARENCE

Remarkss

or Auzuro file

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETUAN

• SIGMATURE

DU-3

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO

DATE

UNLASSIFIED

Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAT

SECKET

1-08

(40)

---

## Page 217

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 218

14-00000

neptan pener punzantica

3--C71

---

## Page 219

FIREL

---

## Page 220

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 221

14-00000

---

## Page 222

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 223

TO

C//ia/c

100M

NO.-

Rruda

2 maytn S

2-a mClide.l

Chile di li D sic

lisfio

lisg li theis finily

is aut hacitile

MTT AMAUTO-I

pomn,

11.

0, 80r9 5-0.0

IFILE TITLE

RID/Fl

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFIGHED

AOSTRACT.:

INOIA

6100

ust

parvIous

40111995

NUMHER IPRIMARY COCET

201-135296

DOCUHENTOATE

DOCUVENT NUMBER

7 Nou 69

SECRET

OS4 x 2562%

1401

---

## Page 224

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 225

4-00000 -

---

## Page 226

1400000_

---

## Page 227

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 228

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 229

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 230

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 231

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 232

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 233

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 234

foR

P.S

2.

201

THiS

---

## Page 235

34.00000_

6.16

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SENSORE LET ROTIMES

"LASSIFIED MISSGE

TOTAL CORES 4/T

DOU PINO ANDOS INITIALE-BEEN BY

SESRET

casua

5

(Wher Filled In).

MOROUS TON OR THIS CORY PROgNITED

CLADITY TO CA FRE NO. "

AP:

TIMES TO CA FLE NO.

Sik

FENN BY

O RETURN TO

BRANCH

• FILE, VR

ACTONNE

BIAN EUR 6, DDP ADDP, CAS, CA/PEG,

94y

CA/PROP, aleps

5006, 03 F0 14

SECRET 3017552 OCT

69 CITE

19902

SUSPENSE

ШН.

CDO

DIRECTOR INFO UH/MIAMI

30 0ст.69 0 76461

TYPIC QUAXE QUIIMID

10 ON ARRIVAL

_28 OCT FROM

TOLD QUAXE-! THAT

UNIDENTIFIED INRA OFFICIAL WAS ASSASSINATED AROUND 20 OCT.

DURING SAME WEEK

WHICH NEAR

CHAUFFEUR WAS IN VICINITY HOTEL

BUILDING, AND HEARD SHOOTING. ONE OR MORE

SHOTS STRUCK CONSUL'S CAR (CONSUL WAS NOT WITH CHAUFFEURS.

CHAUFFEUR WAS NOT INJURED. ONE OF "REVOLUTIONARIES" APPROACHED

BM

CONSUL'S CAR AND CHAUFFEUR WAS THREATENED BY REVOLUTIONARY WHO

WAS CARRYING SUB MACHINE GUN. REV SAID HE HAD JUST KILLED ONE

A"?

PERSON AND DEMANDED BE DRIVEN OUT OF AREA. CHAUFFEUR DROVE

INDIVIDUAL TO OUTSKIRTS OF CITY AND RETURNED TO SPANISH EMBASSY.

SAID THAT

IN RECENT WEEKS SUCH EVENTS HAPPENING WITH

INCREASING FREQUENCY.

2. ABOVE

IS INTERIM REPURI.

TO QUAXE-I BEFORE RETURNING

3. 1

PROMISED GIVE DETAILS

HAD CONVERSATION WITH AMAUTO-I ON FLIGHT TO

DURING WHICH AMAUTO-I REPORTEDLY SAID THAT REASON FOR

File:

ES Gury

SECRET

201-735296

3004/68

---

## Page 236

14-00000

LABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE 00000

IBEUED

• ATI

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP I

(Wiren -Filled In)

RERROOUETION

OF THIS COPY PRONIDITEO

ENCE NI

• di

CLASSP! TO CE FLINO. .

A-PiNO TO CE MLR.iO.

O FLE AD

ARTURN tO

ROUTERO ANCION INITIALS SHEN BY

5 05 Fr89

CARDED

37001

DISSEIDY

ACTION WAIT

FILE, VB

ACTION NP.

PAGE 2

HIS QUICK VISIT|

BETWEEN

P902 SECRET

WAS TO DISCUSS COMMERCIAL MATTERS

WHICH HAVE REACHED CRITICAL STAGE.

(STATION PROCESSING LENGTHY CONVERSATION SY AMAUTO-1 RECEIVED

ON QUDOZE RELATING TO PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED

ON

COMMERCIAL MATTERS. WILL POUCH INTEL REPORT ASAP.>

• 40 ACCORDING TO GUTIMID, AMAUTO-I HAD TO VISIT

REIMARILY TO SETTLE LEGAL DIFFICULTY IN WHICH SON INVOLVED.

HOWEVER OF APPARENTLY EQUAL IMPORTANCE WAS TO CONSULT WITH

AND OTHER

OFFICIALS ON FORTH-

COMING

TRADE NEGOTIATIONS AS WELL AS CURRENT

FIRMS. AIR MANIFESTS CONFIRM

CONTRACTS WITH

AMAUTO-I DEPARTURE

20 OCTOBER AND RETURN 28 OCTOBER.

5. FILE 201-735296 AND 65-2-10/9.

SECRÊT

SECRET -

---

## Page 237

Chief of station

Mei rode morn

Chief, Kestern icisphere Division

TYPIC/QUDOA/ANTO/QUDORE Trancripts

EXCOL!

ACTION REQUIRED: Sie Below

PEFERENCES

:

A. UFAW-0J9, 14 October 1969

13.

OsiM-25588, 17 Outolicr 1969

The ANDITS have just completed the QUbOZE transcripts

for the period 19 September • 13 October 1960.

This was the

of transcripts forded the AMIDIT'S for tonsia

tion, por our trial period as mentioned in reicience A, In Oider

to nake them nore fully useful to cifierent components

The take fron the QUDOVE operation appents vory

interesting.

ve noted with interest that AIAUTO-1 discusses freoly

with his subordinates and privileged visitors subjects of a cou

fidenttal time, including matters that have to do vith intol

ligence activitics:

Soe of the discussions offci a nunber of

opcrational lends which we can follor-up, such as the medical.

information given on 22 September 1969 in the morning hours.

The AMEDITS have suggested that as an aid to help them

translate accurately and possibly nore rapidly,

• they would

appreciate receiving sone original tapes

in addition to the trais-

cripts on a trial basis.

Then when parts of the transcripts are

not understandable to the translator he rould have readily avall-

abic reference for reply.

With the next transmittal of the next QUOZE material,

we would appreciate rceeiving hoth the transcripts propared by

the station and the actual tapes covering the same period of

The conpiote package can then be forvarded to the AMaDIts

for their use as mentioned above.

Distribution

3 - COS

CROSS RETSINCE TO

X-RCf 201-735206

TORPAICH SYRIBCL AND ROLEEK

OSAY - 11029

SECRIT

bart

THOG THE NGHEER

19-6-711/2

Distribution:

1 - B/1B/5

1 - N11/C03/OPS

1 - riginator

T7111

crista

Cronie's lea

103 4071

1/1/ 11:

=3

---

## Page 238

481/006/2R

7.

8.

10.

12.

13.

1d.

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST.

DATE NICROFILMED

5/

/Tic

GL5

Come sibe fee it to

1.3

MUSING ANU RELURE SHELI

-NSIRUCH095

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sode 2. 00 back: Detach back flagi, dre

and forward to Alb.

Destroy leoni coves sheet unless it records

signiticant action laker or comménts roquir.

ing piesellahea

FROM:

TO ACTION BEANCH

Il he no and mile shown ain not proper,

inser: proper tile no. trion and forward

documestio RID AN

PRUPERFREDO

RIDi

WEAVER

RID/AN

EXI. 4239

VAL

TO: ALL ADDRESSÉES

FILLINSECTIOSTON RACE iF APPROPRIATE

1074441.

CA 50

TO

800M

NO.

DATE

1110%.:

¡orricras

5

Sit: Micrits Clear

Caped candire

Parsipe!

Feat tractor'g

Cissail; :a

ics iren!:

das or notes Sacramina,

/wwr/xP.p

253K

04808

FILE TITLE

ABSTRACT

INDEX

610c

EDIPINES

735216

NUMBER

28 CeT.69

10549 25005

SECRET

LAOI

---

## Page 239

ATCH

CLAMOVAIN

SECRET

PROCISSIDG ACTION

BAND FOR DIDUDIE

Chief of Station

Chief,

Western Hemlaphcre Divisio0

FeOt

Chief, EUR: COS, MH/MamA

Chief of Stattonl

TYPIC/QUDOZE

ACTION REQVIRID - REFERLIES

MoxIcan MOurnaLiEt'e CoMmentA on CrochostorkLA

HO DELINEE MOURRED

ONLY QUALE UD DESI

CAN AJDGE DIDUNNO

MX ROPEA

FY! Only

Attached is an extract from a transeript of 16

October

1069 concerming a conversation held between a female Mexican

Journaliat fron the magazine "Siempre" and the Charge d'Affaires

of the Cuban Sabassy in Hadrid, Guillerno Orestes BUIS Peres

(201-735296) •

Perry D. WACHAL

Attachaent:

As stated, herewith

Distribution:

g/att, b/v

2 = C/D, s/att, h/g

2 - C/EUR,

so/ntt

2 - Cos, wE/llant, o/att, h/m

CS COPY

CROSS MERING TO L LT

OSMA - 25605

CLASSICAON

BECRET

201-735216

DATE

• 29 October 1969

MOS ALL MUMBIR .

SG4A13

---

## Page 240

Told sin

rie

ta!:

and tri

.?r!

"??.

and Rule "

intries:

CF 3225022,

Marion 1-ga01:0,

cr

Ti's

.??l

415•

. 0

an.

="

Partin that

5?.3

kiss

coing to dure..

lo, replie

"brommurd"

Ruing all 62e

dia cos to send nor

asia

is

oraäintils.

carting ded megarine

Sne aharas

sigr

50:8e

Rule tells mr that sag dust tolk

about célitieg in

States.-

aven the missiola

interrinw,

can cheating

rete

tita

United

retired

satiragond, and

S.: rust

sir: fully

sense.

Rulz enlalas so mis in1 trat west is co latorist is

the sugoratacture, the prilroals,

mati-nal

tine wanks,

rianizations,

undetentel things,

get well tled up, =1l

the bone. "o says that

For think

recor "ins, but later you ter 931,

"Win't do

sce:-list "ine in Sprint" The thing is

lou met boon into sorcunt thot face as sinsidora cre

nst aritirnt policisiona

ar all ires

Intelligent.

is sageirus,

Ir comunion had triuneari

here it we la nove been

somnist crater in

nor seclaltom ies nothing

and yet neither cosmun-

here veile Franco is in.

ice cinh cone foon Ceocurslovakla, and san talka abit

rest scantar and or colarag

whope she his to deer,

bit tres

here bold cor a let aacut 1t.

3.19

depicts into in Croch stoolia

a8 :atromoly sad.

So ned Soon those In 1967.

Gie corments that

Want

they did last for in Coogioslovakia ros to set

back trendoroly,

tre

country

ti first

nine

tint ceo:lo

had taken on interost in raw tal aêfairs.

'into nes so rotten

but the

tint

Fo do sund lite fate

intasion

caused sion a great shock

of apating fion sion trot arn not

coming rut.

They

ion crisis gogs not evan tho

Soviets will be aclo to sbond. recole hur m interest in thoir

The conle

Ths calf people that

:: =3n: is disastrous.

Who chargo

Site. mongy are lar carditions ons the nursea,

Besiiis

for e visit the equivalent of a vorcer's monthly salary.

unave is tronanacus corruptin, and so tue unre seale, tis

old achinert, no the cruzundlen male 1ite arrograble.

it must

be tian inde apicunt sa t bion erashed 200,000 resons cad that.

35,000 Party Menhers gro in joil undar mist

Hair. Malert,

stcod in line to join o Favor; now toon tige us Dacir

caris in the street.

Forty

Disilisi nant is oncrets.

"artion

con-

---

## Page 241

250000

ding

coired by sonin or herr lear

longer sophicable: le must re

brocrat un

to date mid glosed in sa: current

sisle

af tochnolo-

cical evolution ond world ruction. Me che in Crechoclornkla

wanis

do to the user.

anto to

leevo for Austria of Cormany.

Everypody, egrocinlly the stuients,

Thc

to iste.

black market is up

2no jofinition in vesy sado

Pidoles lotest specch, publigned by Frensa botina, vas

distributed thruch

the Babassy, but thoy got tid of the

copies and deatroyed. thom.

They ray that

leftist publicationg

raise whetever they want or whatever interests them, ond

Fidel's

speech was co no intirest to them, since they did art nalize 1t

thoroughly.

She seys that there is a latent revo itionory sentinent

throughout surope.

he bre seabenne tarre are some re-erful

centers there they cenpore the performince of tho Chinege and

Asiablo outoroaka more than they do the Soviet nes.

This correspondent says that woon she rets to Cuba she

1s zoing to loit FIOSh, bucause toror do a trend of distrust

ci cubans thoughout Burope, becouce they think thet they receivo

intomatién coly thrrigh one coennel.

pant

ünen hearing these argewhat ant!-Soviet rearks on the

inava

of the corrcspondent, Rulz Interruits her and 00ys

to bo on the sido of

thoy

the scrinto for due roasens: firot

crom the military end eccoonio point of ali, and

also because

or wrong trey are on tie same side of

the rence and

right against thore on the ether side.

must

nas, great discrepancies with Ruggle,

Cuba nos sallunited

and still

the

States.

In che rice cr all thoge dicemadancino to

are on the

ale or communion occause we are against cipitaliom.

Pule says thot in mier to find out 16 vou are e comast

"unbask unuself 1f you agree with distributien

cr waulth

ocut b1. distrisution rf costeticn, respect for man,

nationolizatirn co industre Inlo la shat counta.

Àt the end this girl says that tre only tita 13 that

counter.

perile,

Foing against the whole arold oll by tenselves.

-OU

3:?u1s see the ticatient Fidel gets fron the intelloctual mega-

zines 1n the USS?, daechoolerario, and polena.

Scing to

Puiz colls HiLDA and tolls inn sins this women co rade 1s

interview diese Tirakas

CI PAlAVE (ria)

whet her mergenel pinion is ancut ene lad:

inly seen

nin three. co four tines,

in whet

sance de meang.

R:12 Sars

tact this winen corade

---

## Page 242

Moriesn

15

veag tuirs

11: 00118 MIn thot this lods

69y079.

whit

asve? of

20r hugtana.

fly

Then

tais corressandont reste te tencà der adbrose er

cithex

letican

18 10 15 90 archin. e

cula me, so by Fuaneneral 15, ari surase, a Spanieri, or

PACHECO, s Curan,

1il make the annee fer ner.

It siema

sne iantg te leire on tiriaj.

Sco ronte them to take care

of har Merican, visa because

sile

sarg that ir she soes

It n1ll nct

tine lyo

siter nist rappened vitn lumberto

CARRILU

Sr.e

32y9

tact ortirio is nai in charge.

Sae 1s

Going te Cuba

noi and

will so te Fexico In 15 days.

Nilis smes

in and giras ner

tho arre

teleshone number

of the lses she

1s joing to interrier: 226-8é-96.

---

## Page 243

20021201:

1022702. 801820

_C20 MiC

Insecur

Ritriev

Cd CHO C.E

Il Caly

Attached is ru estract trog & trauscript of 16 October

1000 concernins a convoration held detricon a feunlo leicar

Journnlist incid the angusiue "sicrore" aud the Charle a'ltinires

of the Cuban Lagray in thorid, Cuillerio Crestes LUIz Fercz

(201-725225) •

PSILY D. PICEAL

Attachsant:

As

stated, berewith

Histribution

2 - CCS

2

• COS, IT/Liail, W/ott, b/s

037

TEARS SEE: 5 SOCIa

* • 2÷665

LATE

20 Cetober 1569

SPCRAT

---

## Page 244

14-00000.

§:

: 605.01a00t

and Ruin

Pulars:

41919

%.

T.

coing to Cic.

10 t

Marion". 502:4e

:..

s1g.

S.:

caging " entersire

2e2883

about

t•19

malitica

in

=s. 11

thing

ran and its lat:

?:V:

Unintid

1:3 0H.06.+13

englars.

30i must rei rchin

sinfully

recialist sonoc.

Croin, tir

cinna cut,

nati ool cranicubirns,

da: prilrocio,

of interiat in

t:..

but net sr;

tig.

get Mall thra no, :1l tor Not t

been ntal things,

the bean.

i. coys that

reco fear, but Not a gen non bole hing is

you thank abrus a

seeilint " ciar in Spain?" D"

sia:

You anot

take

irat

into coccunt that roon is cunsiderid mac

int lligent.

sident soliciaians of a1l times.

Tr

Is sügucinas,

cortmnlet

ing nor socialion bed infüring

cruntay in triporle,

end get mitcor comun-

to de are mile branco is in.

tiat

411?

cou: flin Caccicolovelde, aid shi

bara

and ci Polandg

talla abut

tola bon a let about it.

eg not bion, tut bieg

as ratrimily sad.

St had boon shit:

3:- dupicto life in Caicarola.dlan

what tiry did lace

in 1963.

She corcrnis that

Dreauce

had inen an intrrest

tin

in nest

but tha

to sit the country

ti. first bino thet people

so potten

that

people sunk

crating

rt.

Scri:ts 1i11

*il.

cil:

Mir

cherge

fer

tara 1.

inte

invarien censed mich a Stict shock

T2ay

al?.

madine foe a entoás boat not even tic

stard.

is

c=s brainà.

Prople acy. an intret in thilr

ti:*

any are tha

is disastrats.

Saricions and the nursia,

vino the equanine coatedles ninthly salar

b:

35,000

stco:

in

car.is

in

inte

nd the corruption malt

li":

moon blee

must

round 4o1

trat

Tine to

the

sirect.

can Da: Paror; now targ.tcar up. tacir Party

piople

Disillusi nant is chorcus.

"arcist as cen-

---

## Page 245

12-00000 -

bruit note. date

longer cal engles it mund he

11c: 1

evolutien

and Plead in

so: currentisaale of technela.

Heino in Crocho loratis

10:19

toit.is

Lil ESSn

eu colo? the socients;

venity

to

Iccvo

for Austria

to riotra

1::

Midel's latest

escar piolenca be Frener

dietribuica than tie

pain sit but

and deatregreg

Tucy sea that

lefthat 2. 01:0001.229

7e23e MetGuor tock vant

ox: jetever interests

specel: lies

Antarcat to ünen, since

tro aid nes nalyze it

thorongly.

She my's that there is a lstent corrutionory sentient

througaout Sarnoor at the. Srobenne turgelane sone poerful

contais tacre they echoone the perforense

o? the Cincue and

tain they do the Soviet coca.

shis corresoment sogs toot wien

she sets to Cure she

1o guine to vinit FIDli, becarse there

trend of distrust

of Croons troughere Burope,

becouse theg think thut they recalve

infomation only throngh one coennel.

Unon hearing there scot anti-soviet renerkg

on th0

pert re the corecay ndent, Rulz interrats

in and

sage they

heye

to ic

cin

tie sido ri

the Scrints lou tre reasono: firgt

fron

me malisany end coonomic point of tir

and

also because

rie:

or urina troy one on bir nue side en the dence and tool

righs egoinst turné on the colice nice.

Cure bos tea,

and still

hes,

great discrepancien rich Russia, China,

the

United

Sieves.

In tho fice of oll these

discramanolas tie era on the

side se communion oceruse ve are ogainst capitalian.

Pulz sayo thot in mier to find cit ir vo: are a conust

Toursele 1f you

ceree with distributin co

lend, ocuitable diet:

nution co rosuction, ecayeet for ian,

neticalization

c? inivatri, Thig is wast cruntse

Itüne ond this sirl soys that tue cali that lo Chet

unferanatoly ne Cubond cannot livo

in psose in ory socialist

like Fiddl and Cils, in

•country cf seven million

porale, coing agpirat tho tielo world all by therelies.

treat soul Fidol nous coon the intel)cebual naga-

zinos in the Use, dzechoslovacie, ma poland.

nas inly

sance ne

Pula Colls WilD" and tello bor thet shis weren comade is

to intervie: irs. takes

co• QuANO (na) and asts tilde

_7. Spasays sie.

WHEt

"icans.

Buiz said that this wins!

clare 15 from She

---

## Page 246

Kerican

is vory

!?."

ho? 1:::

fx].

Fic ap te to get pace ecs

hove of

Then

cities

this corvecedent roate so bari the

to

ate..

Ruiz sEas tant

PACHSOU, S

Cube aria, go: by Fubnonznal 15, end acosGge Sponier,

Madrid-

÷117

she :anis: to

le.ro

make the saches ser

nor. It

of her terican

viso

She vents tron to take care

it ill not be timely, after must happenco vith huberto

Sile says. tore

in dir:ge.

Goins to Cuba now and will go to lexico in i5 da5s.

She is

Nilia

chas in rod sites her the imme

ci the lady she is going to interview: 225-05-96.

telephone number

---

## Page 247

14-00000

24827

:00

.2c"

---

## Page 248

1-00000

3.:

1.00

Linneet

---

## Page 249

Giờ siha-

Da RuI?

---

## Page 250

CS

COPY

th mit + 05014-26605

1861-935396

---

## Page 251

UNCLASSIFIED

* TANAL

bo: ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

• CONF INTIAL..

DiX SECRET

SUBJECT: (Coronal)

FROM:

RH/COG/OPS

RATINSION

7144

DATE

DATE

build rigi

OFFICED:S

INITIALS

#aNO

AC/TH/COG/OPS

C/H/COG

610 7i

7.

RID/D&P

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

FORA

1-03

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 252

14-00000

15 W

BUPPIO EGG TONERS

Chief of Station

Calef of Station, WW/MinnI

Chef, Vostern Heniaphero Division

O TYPIC/AMAUTO 1

ACTO PIE PIO TRIESTE

10 1a01e, Moule

LOST QUALINO DIST

MAN MOGH INDITING

REFERENCES:

A.

9655

B. DIRECTOR 40847

C. • 09MA 24212

D. OSHA 24112

ACTION.

.: See paragraph 5, below

Headquarters maintains its high interest In AMAUTO)

as a long-range, in-place recruitment target.

Much of this

interest is kept alive by the excellent operational reporting

done by Station

C and D hereto are good examples.

over the past year, of which references

3..

Subject's position and total personality recommend

him to us as a high-potential target.

He 1s strongly intel

loctual and emotionally committed to an ideal: At the same

"tine, he exhibts

exploited.

certain vulnerabilities which could be

We belleve, however, that AHAUTO, could be

approached only in a classic sense: a rationally developed,

long-range recruitment culminating in what would be essen

tally an intellectual and even ideological pitch.

course of action

This

he would be eminently worth it.

would take time and assets, but we think

3.

First, his access not only is good now but seems

destined to improve: Secondly, if he were our agent,

be

has the wit and the acuity to know what we want and submit

information accurately based on requirements.

Lastly,

he 1a

a strong personallty who could be counted on to move flexlbly

but effectively within the target milieu.

Distribution:

2 - COS

1 - COS, WH/Miam1

C3 C

.. i

(Continued)

CROSS REFEREYNE TO

OSMW • 11585 Exclades ten sona?!:

8 OCT 1903

SECRE

+201-735296

2 October 1969

Distribution:

1

- E/IB

(Chrono) '

1 - NH/COG

NH1/COG/OPS-

7 GONE SYM908

C/WII/COG

BARB

CO:E01M23NG

7144

FILESIAG

Siberiaso

2NDCUR ID URT 6,1469

36850.1188

DISPATCH

---

## Page 253

OUTLINUALION-OF

DISPATCH.

SECRET

FIST ALE DIMILANO NUNTER-

OSHN - 11583

4.

As

recruitsent target, however, AHAUTO! seens to

present serious difficulties.

He is strong-ainded, opinionated,

idealistic, and apparentlycommitled to the revolution.

On, the

other hand,

there are certain things about his which could be

converted

Into rocruitment vulncrabiiities.

First sorre theo

1s b18

15:

apparent belief that the regime (read:

The Revolution)

not mking the bes: use of his talents.

One cannot.toll

precisely shetber, this is the cause or result of his

apparent

basic emotional instability. During public appearances be

displays polished manners and a pro regine attitude; in private

be frequently complains to bie

subordiantes that he

did

not ask

for a diplonatie position, that he would prefer an industrial

Job, and that he belleves

bis position to be more a handicap

than a promotion.

Secondly; he obviously desires personal

prestige and luxurlous: Hiving.

While these traits do not. mean

so much in the case of a Cuban aa compared to a Soviet or

Chinese, hardships and econonic mismanagement

do in

spinal ailment has been diagonsed as incurable.

may be true, he should realize that further: examination by

other medical men (shile on a training mission in VOLADY,

perhaps:) could belp him considerably..

There may even be other

vulnerabilities which furtber target study could expose.

5.

We present these thoughts at the same time that we

are fully avare of

other operational pressures on

time and assets.

Nevertheless, we would appreclate the Station's

comments

on furtber development of AMAUTO:1 as an in-place

recruitment target.

The first need would be the proper access

agent,

sondone with a Jesult-ltke Intollectual training who can

deal with him in the real of concepts and philosophy as required.

In any case, we would like continued target reporting on AMAUTO-1,

as your time permits.

Terence A. MILENBACH

Henry K. PURTIN

FOAH

53a

VAR PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLAASIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUEE

2 o1 2

561-7.15.29€

---

## Page 254

14-00000

BISERUCHONS

PRIOR TO

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Dotach back flap

2.

ard tonvard to RID.

Desuoy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action iaken or comments roguir-

ung preservation.

FROM:

RID/SD

TO: ACTION ERANCH

11 file no. and title shown are no: proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

documont to RID/ATT. 5 D

PROPER PILE NO.

JO: ALL ADDRESSEES

PILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROFRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

Bettie

DATE

OPFICER'®

SAITIALS

Tixe

9 6t

:910/469

CL

RYBAT

9.

10.

2.

13

14.

15.

18.

17:

MIDATI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILALO

ABSTRACT

INDEE

4100

FILE TITLE

FiLE NUMULI I PRIMARY COOT)

201-735296

COCUUINT DAI

DOCUMIA? NUMBIN

10.69

10598 25510

SEC

840.

1:

---

## Page 255

DISPATCH

" SECRET"

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

chist,

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

10015

Chief öf Station

ACTION REOUTALD: EFFEBLACLS

RYBAT/TIPIC/ QUT INID/ANAUTO-1

PECCISEND MEN

MANNED FOR DEKES

NO NOSTAG ROUTED

ORT QUALITED DESE

CAN NUDE DEDUGUG

HICROFILER

On 23 September 1969 AJAUTO-1 called an unidentified

woman who resided l

turning

years before re-

ANAUTO-1 noted that he visited the

woman's

cousin, identified as Esther CORRIPIO, while he vacationed

in PBRUNEN and found everyone in good health.

The unidentified

woman asked AMAUTOl if there was much-food available

and the following dialogue began:

ALAUTO-1:

FOSLAN:

ALAUTO-1:

Yes,

everything is being resolved.

But

imagine to be free, one must pay

a high price and the price must be

paid. There is no other way.

What one wants, one must pay:

It is very logical, but look, when one

is a servant to the rich, the servant

usually lives relatively

well, but the

servant continues as a servant. However,

when one no longer wants to be a servant

to the rich, one has to begin saving and

the only way there is for the poor to

save is to reduce (the intake) of essential

foods, change the essential and begin

to buy machines and to buy a series of

things (cuestiones) and one day, we will

• become rich together,

We can say we are

rich when we have resolved all the problems,

not only material problems, but spiritual,

cultural, that is, when everyone can do

and believe as he

likes.

Distribution:

2

- C/WHD

2

— C/EUR

2 - COS, RH/Niami

.... continued

CROSS REFERENCE 10

ES COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND LIMBER

OSMA:- 25530

DATE

1 October 1969

NOS ALL NUMBER

SECRET/RYBAT

J 201-735296:

---

## Page 256

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATION

SECRET:

DISPATCH STUNGL AND SUNCEE

OSMA - 25530

-HOJAN:

Oh! I don't do anything but talk of

and I adore the

country.

a brother there who is a nurse and he

says he

is fine.

AMAUTO-1:

gets into your blood.

Then

Sa#

waS

Esther she

was a little thin,

but

in good health.

We think the above is another good example of AlAUTO 1's

passion for the good life.

While he appears patriotic and:

openly supports the regime,

we continue to believe that he would

prefer a return to the relative freedoms enjoyed by his country-

men before the

start of the revolution.

нішА.

Howard R.

SA CODER

8. 6a 530

1401

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

- GUASSIFICATICH

SECRET

PACE NO

2

CONTINUED

---

## Page 257

14-00000

??.

PRIOR TO LUNG

mind lorard to KID.

Distroy trout cover sheet unlers it recrida

sumboont action tikon pe comments ringbe.

1ny preservalion

KID/Ail

• 287. 4239

E:-129

GA S0

IUSS CI-T

1406110%3

10 ACHION BRANCH

1l alo au. and title shown sio aol prope:.

see proger dile. an bains and lorward

dirument to RID 'AN.

TO

с/пн/с

ROON

NO

Fore reo sons

5

za man S

5 pal dis

may raft

TO. ALLADDRESSEES

COMMENTS

= 3: Check w

Chile dels D are

es

Negle this finaly

is out handle

iTe AMAUTO:!.

10

12.

13.

14.

15.

16

17.

RID; FI

EQUEST

OLTE MICHOFILMEO

ABSTRACT

INDER

A100

u.31

FRENUUUER IPRINETYCODEI

101-135296

DOCUMENI

7 Nou 69

1054925626

SECRET

1A01

C

---

## Page 258

14-00000

---

