# 104-10216-10070

## Page 1

104-10216-10070|

cf. M.

GRIO :

NOUG! 1N/db

UNIT:

WH/C/RR/OA

EXT :

7646

DATE :

15 June 1965

TO :

JANAVE

FRCE: DISECTOR

COMP: DC/WH/C,5

C/F1Z C/ELINTZ, GLIW

TO

PRITY WAVE

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESLU

2. RYBAT / SECRET

D: DEX

MAOINDER

S) FILE IN CS FILE NO.

201-41531

Ci Easinoy

5

6

7

8

C/66S3

CITE DIR

19472:

RET: WAVE 2974 (IN 90118) *

1.. ISADORE IRVING DAVIDSON (201-41581) BORN 19 JAN 1921 PITTSBURGH,

PA. VOLUMINOUS EQS TRACES SUBJ. IS REGISTERSD WITII JUSTICE DEPT AS

AGENT FOR FAITI, ECUADOR, NICARAGUA AND ISRAEL. MBR NATE PRESS CLUB

AND WELL ENOWN WASBINGION CIRCLES, ENJOYS CLOSE RELATIONSHIP WITH

DREW PEARSON AND OTHER NEWSMEN. DESCRIBED AS AGGRESSIVE INTERNATIONAL

BUSINESSHAN KHO KOULD PROBABLY PARTICIPATE IN ANY BUSINESS PROPOSITION

FOR A COMMISSION. HOWEVER, ALWAYS PROTECTS HIMSELF WHEN DEALING WITH

REPRESENTATIVES OF OTHER COUNTRIES BY REPORTING ANY PROPOSED TRANSACTION

TO A US GOVT AGENCY OR OFFICIAL. APPROACHED KUBARK IN 1955 TO OBTAIN

FINANCIAL BACKING FOR TRAVEL AGENCY WHICH WOULD PUBLICIZE YUGOSLAVIA

TOURIST ATTRACTIONS TO AMERICANS. IN EXCHANGE SUBJ WOULD PASS ON TO

KUBARK ANY INFO HE MIGHT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THROUGH SAID AGENCY.

KESTINGS WERE HELD WITH SUBJ ON 30 SEPT AND 3, 5, 10 AND 13 OCT 1955.

SUBJ WAS ADVISED KUBARK WOULD NOT BACK HIM FINANCIALLY OR SUPPORT HIM

IN ANY MANNER. IS WELL, KNOWN TO ODENVY. FYI: SUBS IS CONSIDERED

FAST BUCK ARTIST AND SECURITY RISK. BELIEVED TO BE PERSON WHO BLEW

KUBARK L

_ IN HAITI TO DUVALIER.

(CONTINUED)

COORDINATING OFFICERS

MELEASING OFFICER

15-8

RYBAT/SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TNE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

GaFY 80

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ORIG :

EXT :

RATE :

10 :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

RYBAT/SECRET

I TO

CINDEX

O NO INDE.

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

PAGE 2 OF 2

INFO: VA . FILE I RID COPY

INFO

COPY OF SUBJS 201 FILE ARRIVING WAVE WITH

DESTROY DELTURE TO BRANCH OFILESH

20002000440500s00uxs Juexesta

ROÜTING

7

8

CITE DIR

19472

HQS DISSEMING PARA 1 REF AS TDOSDE WITH APPROPRIATE EQS CONLENT

ON DAVIDSON.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/C/Comment: *Requested traces Irving Davidson.

C/WH/C/FI

C/WH/C/MO

DC/WH/C/RR

/DR

aSIOND FITZGERALD

-C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

W. Cini (in draft)

(in (draft)

(in draft)

COORDInATING OFFICERS

RYBAT/SECRET

shred trees.

dongstar end

JOHN L.

HART

DCHHD/C

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICEN

FO THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY HA

---

