# 104-10186-10056

## Page 1

104-10186-10056

MINFORMATIO

"REPORT INFORMATION RERORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM,

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES. •

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT "Silvano" (an alias)

CS CI-316/00733-65

16 February 1965

CS 311/00115-64

(page 9)

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

8 July 1964. RETURNTO CIA

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

Background Use Only

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO..

Do Not Reproduce

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRATINGS ARE DEPINITIVE. APFRAISAL. OF CONTENT. IS TINTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964®

Headquarters Commonta

The following. Eapart. is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees tako no action on any of

this checduns nethne Agentle personality reports without.

this Agency.

"Silvano" is the Paraguayan desk officer in the Seccion Sur

(South American Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional

(Nattonal Liberation Department - LN) Of the Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2.

"Silvano" was born between 1935 and 1940 and source

belleves that he is a Cuban citizen. He is about five feet ten

Inches tall, weighs about 140 pounds, and has a thin build.

He

1s a Caucasian and has black, wavy. hair, a large, pug nose, and

a thin, black mustache.

"Silvano" has a thin face, & long, thin

neck, and white, uniform teeth.'

Headquarters Comment&

1.

The records

"StIvano,"' this Agency reveal no identiftable information

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

1 DIa

ARMY

REP

INAVI

1 AIR

INSA

LWAY

1 Oc8

FBI 2

CINCLAST CINCSO # I&NS

(Nolar Field distribanon insisted by "#")

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

AL-CILIA

L/CI/REA

1 1E

3IE

-RIDLAN

IX 2358

UFGA 19445(14Jar

NO PROJECTCAWNLG

CSC1-316, 00133:13

POrALS WH/SA 8 OLD, WET (1), CLE, RID

1

61A880N,

1.9 - 5-1

FORM NO I

OBSOLETE PRETIOUS EDITIONS

KIRSA

---

