# 104-10122-10399

## Page 1

10410122-10399]

•TIONAL PORA NO. 11

010-10

_UNITED STATES GOVT MENT

'Memorandum

TO

: FILE

FROM : James E. Mackey, Jr.

SUBJECT:

MOSS, Edward K.

#172 646

DATE: 25 March 1965

031

1. Attached herewith is a memorandum dated 23 March 1965 from the

Office of Legislative Counsel to Mr. Tom lucid and a copy of the trans

These copies were obtained from

Security Officer, NE Division. I

interest

was generated by the interest of the Legislative Counsel. J3

73

2. Mice

reviewed Subject's file and advised the undersigned

that the pertinent portions would be made available to the legislative

Counsel with the prohibition that the results of the FBI investigation

would not be made available to the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

3o Also, on 23 March 1965, Betty Buckley, Secretary In the Chief?s

office, CA Starf, called and wanted to know when the last Covert Security.

Approval was granted and to whom. The undersigned advised Betty Buckley.

that the last Covert Security Approval was granted on 7 November 1962 to

CA Staff for use by CA/PAG, Project ZRMAJOR, coordination with NE Division,

who had a prior interest.

4. No further action is contemplated at this time.

оно x. но

Jin Heckey

I2/2

F5591

4-E-25

Attachment:

Memorandum dated 23 March 1965

Transmittal Sheet dated 23 March 1965

3/33

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF BENTIAL

SECRET

FROM.

Thomas A. Lucid

Assistant to the DD/P

NO.

DAN

23 March 1965

DATE

6644

NITIAL

PORWARDEL

6D3108

C/NE

Tol: Does your Division have any

Interent in Edward K. Moss and/o

info which can be forwarded to the

House Foreign Aftnira Committee

as requested in atinched memo?

Please submit reply by 1200 hrr..

24 March.

SUSPENSE DATE: 1200 hrs. 24 Marco

12.

0J.

14.

19.

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERIAL

USE OULY

1 UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

2) March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Me. Thomas Lucid

SUBJECT:

Edward K. Moos

1. Thie de she cane I called you about on Friday, remuli

of an inquiry received from the Hour Foreign Alfaire Commilie.

Subjeil in reporiedly registered under the Foreign Agenio Regio-

spation Act lur Somalia, Cameroona, and Sudan.

2. RI chort revealed a Bureau report on publis relatiune

work for Varona and an Altorney General letter lo Congreas.

indicaling his work for imo other Alrlean countries.

Have been

advised that NE ubrained a CSA in 1959 and CA in 1962 for an

Edward Kipper Moro in the, publis relillone field.

1. Could you help un gor whatever information de appro-

priate in manure that me are not caught in the middle on this

Congressional inquiry? Inquiry was received Friday and we

need in gor back to item so soon se possible.. Thanko.

LYLE L MILLER

Offire of Legiolative Counsel

---

