# 104-10217-10170

## Page 1

104-10217-10170

REPORT COVER SHEET

FROM

SECRET

DATE OF REPORT

THWAVE

REPORTING OFFICER

Perit

Francis D.

REPONTA OFFICIN

RACHFIELD

bargaret Ro NANKALI/uta

Novin Andre Key in Asick

Indren

MACKBROUND DATA AND COMMENTS:

RD. NO.

PROJ.

B'CE CR.

ТУРІС

Source: AMLANE-I in a report dated 9 November 1964.

RID: Please inder®

I vICROFILMED

DEC 2 1964

1. DOC MICR: GER

2P HQS

REPORT NO.

UFG-6235

20 November 1964

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

SUITS

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYINO REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

1 = 00/C

2 - eMBARR

HIC

ant paulo.

SUBJECT

di

INDEXX

APPR

EXTRA-AGENCY

1 cy, each to Miami reps of:

State

F.B.l.

Customs

ARaN

REFIRENCES

PADA

IS COPY

DOI

SECRET

gOnn

NO. PAGES

2

To 0-19-300-3

201-269349

110)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1: Contemed by oiher independers and reliable sourcos, 2: Probably Prue. 3: Possibly trut

#: Doubthul. 5: Probatty

false.

6. Cannos be judged,

CONPIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUAECT 1° Possible Establishment of a

Miant Training Base by the

MR. Alpha 66-SFNE Alliance

Resumption of Activitles by

Bloy Gutterrez Menoyo

DATE OF 9 November 1964

INFO.

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORT

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

30 November 1904.

UPG- 6235

SOURCE:

An educated Cuban exilo who 1a active in several emile

political organizations.

He maintains correspondence with

coveral residents in Cuba. He is a fairly reliable reporter

on the internal politics of the refugee groups.

Thia inform-

tion vas obtained fron discussions with Major Aurelio Nazario

201-269319

Sargen and DI. Diego Medina Rodriguez, officials of the SiNs.

ст.

As of 9 November 196%, Floy Cutlerrez Menoyo, military leader

of the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray

(SFNE, S-cond

National Front of the Escambray), member organization of the

Alliance formed by the AFNS, Alpha 66, and the Moviniento

Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP, Revolutionary Movement of the.

People), had been Joined by almost all his men who had undergone

military training.

As a result, Gutierrez ordered the establish

ment, preferably in the Miaml area, of a snall camp for training

additional mon. The caup 1a to be a small one, just large

onough to accommodate 12 to 14 sen, because Gutierrez does not

want to become logally entangled with American authorities and

can not afford any large expendituros.

Gutlerrez temporarily halted his activities before the Anerican

presidential elections allegedly under instructions from un-

identified persons.

However, he plans to resume then once

again, directing them against the destruction of the forthconing

Cuban sugar crop.

2-2542 Armando ostan Diaz, who has eatablished a headquarters in

it suin

in order to raise money for the silk, recently

CONFTDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

CS COPY.

£032₽

Bustacted Fres

DISTRIBUTION

LOS A GODY

370

i nã

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTROLLRD DISSEN

UPG 6235

Antont To are lang, eader of Alpha 68, ra l bet 0e:

B1-36:kla e

Hajor/Andre, Nazario Sargen has set up a base of operations in

including Chicago,

Nazario hopes to increase the enthusiasn of the ey

Alliance's followers in that area,

which seemed to have waned

errewhat disirz veces, montha ass result of lack of activity

against Cuba.

CS COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

