# 104-10246-10036

## Page 1

1104-10246-10036

soundes

done 10m

LURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Le Not Reproduce

STATER

nantere

ute Die

INFO.

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

FROM

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUAUFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, Mexico City

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

(KDAFGHAN/Progress. Report for Period I January Through 31 Maxch 1972

Action Required:

See Paragraph 10

: 1.4

References:

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

HMMA-41490;

11 January

[191

MEXICO CITY-18887

MEXICO CITY-18889

HMMW -18913,

10 March)19

HMMN - 18914, 10 March

19

1. Summary: The project continues as before, routinely

producing photos and information of the activities

of. AMFINK

personnel and their visitors. 2(KDAFGHAN was able to implicate.cume

one AMFINK in a criminal activity,

but unfortunately the GOM epipos

whitewashed the case.

Another possible lead to a

ur security problem has cropped up in the form of (kDAFghan-]'s.

girlfriend. We have had no luck in locating a new OP site to

replace: this-one.oKDAFGHAN-1 continues to have his personal. ai?

problems, but they have yet to reach the point where they affect

the security of this operation.

-

2. Operational Activities: With the exception of the month

of March the KDAFGHANS carried on their activities as usual, pro-

viding photographic coverage of the entrance to AMFINK from

to 1800 each working day.:: In March, we had KDAFGHAN change his

sours/to/from 1600 hours, when the AMFINKS return from"lunch, to :

2300 hours; when the last one usually leaves for home. This

coverage convinced us that most, if not all, AMFINK clandestine

activity is carried out in the afternoon and evening hours.

They / liKe

are extremely active during this part of day in the sense of the

number of trips they make outside of AMFINK. : Some even disappeareder

completely during most of the afternoon. This information should

help our efforts to surveill the AMFINKS.:: A lucky break was had

when (KDAFGHAN witnessed the return of the Subject of 201-886893 from

Continued.

Orig. & 2

- Chief; WHD:

I - COS,

WH/Miami-

1tri3

Oper 6100.12960001

ROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 41906

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

May 19_

LET THE HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-122/3

hE stells Lu

vecoming more and more

his observation of AMFINK he

gains a great deal of information of

While our files

show that once he used to report

this, we now find that it has to be pumped out of him bit-by-bit,

with he apparently either not recognizing or being interested in

its significance.

In our opinion, an extended vacation away from

(KDAFGHAN-2 is long overdue.

Production continued as before during this

with the exception of the month of March when no photos were

taken because of the hours.

To date the results

have been negative.

14/PU of KDAFGHAN production to LNERGO.

We continue to pass the appropriate portions

CLASSIFICATION

IRM

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

ПрАдіну 2!

C2os5

SECRET

A CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2 of 3

---

## Page 2

KART JUS

767

Draper on

:5

MA 41903

the incident in which he was involved.. We were able to pass

this information to the police through the (KOGLACIERS. Up until

that, time the police had been after another AMFINK.

With this

information they were rapidly able to identify the culprit.

Our technician paid a visit to the KDAFGHAN site during

period and spent most of one day on updating his

techniques.

has resulted in a further improvement in the quality of his

photographs.

also briefed on and given a night-viewing

device to use during

the March evening surveillances.

tunately this device proved of no use because of lighting condi

The Case Officer and the (KDCALVERTS have spent a great

deal of time during this period looking for an alternate OP site.

The KDCALVERTS have been looking for one to serve as a basehouse

fortheir surveillances of the AMFINKS and we for an OP to replace

the present KDAFGHAN site.

Neither of us has had any luck.

area is highly desirable because of its proximity to excellent

transportation and because it is a middle class residential "oasis"

in a heavily commercialized area. • We continue to look, but are

now less optimistic on our chances of finding a new site.

5.

Security: (KDAFGHAN-1 was SGSWIRLED during this quarter i

with no signs of deception.

(References B and E)

The SGSWIRL

revealed a girlfriend and confirmed his correspondence with

relatives in PBRUMEN.

It also revealed that he assumes that

•2(KDTUCK-19 works for us since he had recommended him to us at

least three times.

After the last recommendation (K)TUCK-19 told

O4KDAFGHAN-1 that somebody had been investigating him and (KDAFGHAN-]

drew the obvious. conclusion.

The girlfriend (ReferenceC) is

interesting.

An East European immigrant, we have one card showing

that she was the object of the attention of the Subject of 201-

012972, a suspect intelligence officer.

Unfortunately, neither

we or Headquarters have been able to locate the basic document,

НМИН-13665,

Because of this

the be the a sales ta KDARCHAN, we intend

to check her out throughly (see plans and Headquarters' action

required below).

Because of our suspicion that, KDAFGHAN-1 or

KDAFGHAN-2 is possibly being monitored by the AMFINKS, we have

cut our meetings

with him to two a month and taken special counter-

surveillance precautions at each meeting.

So fax, we have noted

nothing unusual.

Our plans for a CI operation designed to smoke

out any possible AMFINK monitoring of this operation are being

held in

abeyance pending the results of our investigation of the

Subject of Reference C.

Agent Personnel:

There have been no meetings with

KDAFGHAN-2 during this period except for the one visit by our

technician to the site.O«KDAFGHAN" continues to show sporadic

signs of extreme nervousness,

if not mental instability.

addition he

seems to be becoming

more and more passive.

his observation of AMFINK he gains a great deal

of information of

interest to us.

While our files show that once he used

we now find that it has to be pumped out of him bit-by-bit,

with he apparently either not recognizing or being interested in

its significance.

opinion, an extended vacation away from

KDAFGHAN-2 is long overdue.

Production:

Production continued as before during this

period with the exception of the month of March when no photos were

taken because of the hours.

53a

To date the results

have been negative.

We continue to pass the appropriate portions

•KDAFGHAN production to INERGO.

CLASSIFICATION

chandad in

S279 11

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

A CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2 0f 3

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH

SECRET

НИМА

41906

02

Administrative/Finance:

We provided the (KDAFGHANS with

passports in March. Costs continued within the programmed

amount.

As mentioned above we will be investigating the

Subject of Reference C during this period.

this is accom

plished we will begin a CI exercise based on a piece of misinfor

mation tailored to make the AMFINKS take overt and verifiable

action. In the meantime we will continue our search for a new OP

On FORTAW's arrival he will start looking for a new OP team.

recruited, this team will be given the task of finding their

own site

and we will cease our activities along this line.

seep the KDAFGHANS on until the new team is in place and the new

OP operating®

If by the end of this calendar year we are unable

to locate a new site we will terminate the KDAFGHANS, let the

current site cool-off for a while and then place the new team in

the same place..

The costs of terminating these two agents will

exceed six thousand dollars.

We expect them to resettle in either

WOCORK with the rest of their family or in Spain where they have

property. We foresee no problems in the termination.

10. Headquarters Action Required:

a. Please try again to locate HMMN-13665 of 7 June 1965

(File # 50-8-2/2-1).

b.

Please review 201-012972 for any other possible

information of the Subject of Reference C.

YA Gandalphe

esse R. GARDALPI

3/2V

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Faded an Enomado

[CONTInUED

PAGE NO.

3 of 3

---

