# 104-10119-10326

## Page 1

104-10119-10326

SECRET

(When Filled In)

Backalound t

SPECIAL PROJECT SECRECY AGREEMENT

I acknowledge that I have been indoctrinated in the Project identified below and thys

received highly classified information relating to United States intelligence collection

activifies. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling of such in

formation could seriously affect the national defense and that the transmission or revelation

of such information to unauthorized persons could subject me to prosecution under he F

pionage Laws (Title 18, USCA, Sections 793 and 794)

I have been informed that approval for-access to Project information may only be granted

by Project Headquarters.I have also been informed that extraordinary security measures

and controls have been established to protect Project information andMthat access to such

information is restricted to those who "must know" based upon their present position or func

tional use.

I agree to advise appropriate authorities of any change in my position or func

tion and will execute a Termination Secrecy Agreement upon notification that such is

quired.

I realize that a briefing of this scope and depth, which identifies sponsorship, reveals

codewords, and admits to the ultimate intelligence application of the Project, is given only

to those individuals who have been specifically approved for the above identified Project at

the highest level and that this type information may not be divulged to individuals withless

levels of access.

I am aware that travel to certain hazardous or denied areas of the world such as the

• USSR, Communist China, and Sino-Soviet satellite areas may constitute an unacceptable se-

curity risk and I agree, until formally relieved of this requirement, to request authorization

from Project Headquarters prior to undertaking such travel.

reveal, by a reviewed the alive prority refriment, whode ried pril s, on Wor

this pledge I recognize and accept the fact that I have a personal and individual responsi-

bility for the protection of all such information in my possession no matter where generated

nor how acquired and agree to abide by the security requirements and regulations estal

lished for the Project.

GROUP

loded fro

ungrading.

FORM

$-65

2441

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.::.

SECRET

(When Filled In)

3500

I understand that no change in my employment status or relationship with the United

States Government will relieve me of my obligation under this Agreement.

I have been advised of the procedures to follow in order to determine the identity of

individuals who have been approved for access to this Project, the current estimate of hazard

involved in travel to a foreign ared or to resolve any other question which may arise under

this Agreement.

PROJECTS*

BYECOM

NAME OF WITNESS (Type or Print)

NAME (Type or Print)

E. Howard Hunt

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

12

REMARKS

SIGNATURE

iv.,

NAME & ADDRESS OF AFFILIATION

CIA/ DDP/EUR

Headquarters

DATE

28 August 1968

ites

*The signator should place his initials after each Project name.

SECRET

---

