# 104-10147-10116

## Page 1

104-10147-10116

COBRUENTIAL

INTERNAL LiSE ONLY

Journal • Office of Legislative Counsel

Thursday - 17 March 1977

• J-5

HSCA

77-0028/5

IND

TRAFFICANTE

Page 2

5. (Confidential - DEM) LIAISON Called Tom Moore, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to ask about Committee action

on the House Select Committee on Assassinations request for Senate

Select committee on intelligence materian santos Trafficante. Moore

said the Committee had met on this matter and had decided not to

provide the Agency materials to the House Committee. Moore said that

the more difficult problem concerned Committee materials not supplied

by the Agency but which related to Agency operations. Moore said he

would be reviewing this material and within the next ten days or so would

provide us copies of this material with a request that we make

recommendations on what should not be provided the House Committee.

6. (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Delivered to Ron McCluskey,

Staff Director, House Post Office and Civil Service Subcommittee on

Retirement and Employee Benefits, Agency pamphlets on the Agency's

cooperative and summer intern programs which he had requested for

certain of his associates who had expressed interest in Agency employment.

I told him he could call Robert Bell, Personnel Officer, if he had any

further questions.

7. (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Called Bob Hull, Departmeni

of State,

and inguired as to whether reemployed Foreign Service annuitants

can have their annuity recomputed under the Foreign Service law. He said

that a Foreign Service annuitant who works in Government service after

retiring from State can have such a recomputation to include all of his U.S.

employment provided he is then on recall as a Foreign Service officer. The

question came up during Mr. Lyle Miller's meeting with Bill Jones,

Administrative Assistant to Representative Jack Brooks (D., Texas), who

is looking into the eligibility of further retirement benefits for reemployed

annuitants in Government.

8. (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Met briefly with

a CIARDS retiree who is now employed on the House Government Operations

Committee staff, and gave him a copy of the paper explaining the cligibility

of further retiroment benefits for CIARDS retires reemployed in Government

which Kon McCluskey, Staff Director, House Post Office and Civil Service

Subcormittee on Relirement and Employee Benefits, had requested. i

informed him that the Civil Service Cormission had not yel made its decisio:

as to ils revior of its policy regarding the cligibilily of recmployed ClARDS

annuitants for further retirement benefits.

21128

---

