# 104-10227-10091

## Page 1

104-10227-10091

21 Marat Iál

MENORANDIN FOR TILE RECORD

SUBJECT: Plana for cho Eotablishment of a Provisional Jovercent

REP:. PerreTaph 3, 20 Murch 1961 Doo for the Record, Subject no lboro

1. On 20 Mirch 1901 ne 1730 houra Mr.

the 11e, iith Ray 1n attendanco, votor in the election.

At 2315 houro 20 Murch Mr. Foul Inforuul the underases telepbonlonlly

Frou Miunl that Miro Curiona asi seno rombera of the laceably vould proceed

to Hex Torr and thit Mr. Carr vould aldo fly to le. lork in orlar to be en

The undoraigned Iaformod Mr.

along the lines of Bell 300% (057 T728)

3. On 2i March Air. Napoll uns dispatched to lew York after he lad beam

brieted nong the lines of Boll 3004. in ordar. to nosiot Mr. Cart in every

posalule iny. By 1600 hours vo had been informnd thre the follo 187, 19

Cubans, Incluline Miro Curions, ero proceoline, to lie: York: Kiro, Psaso,

Rey, Chibro, Artime, Varcan, Carrillo, Alvarez Dius, Vargao Gozaz, Carbo,

Fernandos Travleas, Ollula, Orlando Rodriguoz, Revin, Higuol Gonzales.

interproter

-ho 10 coming st the requeat of Miro--Barquin, Baruff. Bernie

Barker 18 z01ag alons as soneral anady san.

In Her, York, as mattoro nou stand, the Cubone s11l firot reat In

private in order to finniise their joint declaration und thals progre.

Ins entiro Ansarbly -111 than cril a pross conforeuco nt -hich tiee tory!

w111 announo their unity in olecting Viro Cirdone ns the Carlten el tha

Revolutionary Council and in having Agreed on a program. AfroT 2bl6 MIro

1111 Bake hia noceptrace speech.

In this conneution it should bo sored

that 1t 1a hoped to have the publicity ond handlod by both Belchma, e

member of the

"Chriotian jelance Monitor" araff rod ra requintaaco of Schlesinger,:

Aal lon Jones.

5. At noon of March 21 the underai mel van in talophonie cuntret vita

Xr. Bradeck of the State Dopartment and the underolined anied Fr. Bradock!

shether or not the Department of Stato vas in egivesont to cho rolanoe..

by the Cubuns--of thair platfore, s robune of bich had beea rado evailablo

to the Departmant of Stato (Mr. Barle) on 1 March, Mr. Brado:k adriaod

the unioralened at 1400 hours that the Deporteent :no in full greezent

with tho plutform sal bal no objoctions to 1ta rolarsa.

---

## Page 2

21.00000

inge

In the noon hours of 21 March the firot pross atory (UP!

ho arontion of the fevolutionary Councll appeared on the viree (a oce

attached).

OSHARD DROLLER

C/H/A/PA

•Attachments: (8)

Ji. FELL 3004. (OUT 7728)

UPI atory of 21 March 1951

---

