# 104-10125-10155

## Page 1

104-10125-10155

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

CIA

104-10125-10155

RECORD SERIES:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HOOVER, J. EDGAR, D/FBI

TO :

HELMS, RICHARD, DCI, CIA

TITLE:

"LETTER CONCERNING A DOCUMENT ENTITLED "RACIAL VIOLENCE POTENTIAL IN THE

US."

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/26/1967

2

NBR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Not Marked

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

JFK56: F2 : 1993.08.10.09:45:39:280060 : NBR. PER FBI: "NON ASSASSINATION RECORD".

v9.1

Docid: 32364190

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

#Z.

63 pp

20

892

DocId: 32364190 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

2 CHECTOR

Nico:

UNITE, STATES DEFANTMENT OF J0..ICB

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

May 26; 1967

BY LIAISON

Honorable Richard Helms

Director

ON

Central Intelligence. Agency

Washingtor, D. Co

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

5/8/54

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL (MAR

Desr Nic. Helns:

I an enclosing a document ontitled "Racial Violouce

Poteutial in the United States this Sunor," which may be o.

interest to you.

All stons point tobara declarent racial strice

throughout the Nation this stuner.

Most of the disordars es

recent years have been spontancous cucbreaiie of nob rioterac

iniziated by.

lawless and irrenponsihle clomonds, but incortont

agitation and propagenda by conmuriste and oucronists have

contributed coward Menzo undest.

In particulars.

Likc Hartin

luther King and Stokoly Carmichael hove sennet the

flames of racial discord.

King has joined Carnichael and other crtronists Le

the civil sucts noveront in enactre the communint sackie o

linking the cavil righte novomend wich che antartedaaaa

protose novemont.

The entamar campozen ondossco by Mod Morge

to pronote connuaist ains cod progrous in the butted States

and abroad

A copy of this enclogure is hoing furnished to ench

of the following:

Jeso Malded Secoll, et the Thate Scue;

the Vice Procidont; the Sccrotazion of

State and Descree;

and the

Attorey Concralo.

Upon removal of the clacoitiod notoriel, this loster

beconos usclassified.

Bracexely yOu2sg

israelin

Exc105u20

C00 20202727s

DocId: 32364190 Page 3

---

