# 104-10103-10111

## Page 1

104-10103-10111

d) At 1031 hours on 1 October 1963, a man trying to speak

Russian called the Soviet Embassy Military Attache Office:

and said he was at their Embassy "last Saturday" (28 September)

and talked with the Consul.. He is told to call the number for

the Consulate and to write it down. o/

e) At 1035 hours on 1 October 1963, a man (whose voice was

described by the translator as the same person as above) called

the Soviet Embassy Consulate.

He said this is Let oswaLd, I was

at your place last Saturday and spoke with a Consul who said they

would send a telegram to Washington, so I want to find out if you

have anything. He did not remember the name of the Consul.

The

Soviet suggested it was KOSTIKOV, then told the caller that a

telegram had gone out but nothing had been received. 1/

---

## Page 2

1d-0000

a...

1/ Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Military

Attache Office, Mexico City,

telephone

tap operation, Microfilm reel number 171, JOb 11-812, BOX 1, File:

50-6-75/4.

2 / Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,

Mexico City,

telephone tap operation,

microfilm reel number 171, Job 11-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

3/ Same as 2/ above.

Mexico City lated 27 September 1903 ot Sovieel enhose tapanery,

telephone tap operation,

Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

5/ Transcript dated 28 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,

Mexico City, _

telephone tap operation,

Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

6/ Transcript dated 1 October 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Military

Attache Office, icrofilm Feel number 178, Job 71-812, Box 1, File:

telephone

50-6-75/4.

Transcript dated 1 October 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,

Mexico City,

telephone tap operation,

Microfilm reel number 178, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

2. There were five telephone calls to or from the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico City which (after 22 November 1963) were linked to

OSWALD for the period 27 September 1963 to 1 October 1963:

a) Shortly after 1600 hours on 27 September 1963 the Soviet

Embassy, Mexico City, received a call from Sylvia DURAN, a Mexican

employee in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico City. DURAN had a North-

american in her office and wanted to know who he talked with at

the Soviet Embassy.

She had sent him there for a Soviet visa.

after which the Cubans would issue one to him.

DURAN was told to

leave a number for someone to return the call. • She gave the

Soviets the number of the Cuban Consulate: 3/

(One concludes from this conversation that this Northamerican,

later identified by DURAN as OSWALD, went first to the Cuban

Embassy on 27 September, then to the Soviet Embassy, and

returned to. the Cuban Embassy when DURAN made the first call.)

•b)

At 1626 hours on 27 September a Soviet male in the Soviet

Embassy, Mexico City, returned the Call to DURAN at the Cuban

Embassy

and asked if the Northamerican had been there and was told

that he was still there (at the Cuban Embassy). The Soviet told

DURAN that the Northamerican had shown them letters with their

Consulate in Washington requesting a visa for himself and his

wife but the process takes 4 to 5 months and they (the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico) have no authorization to issue a visa to him

and furthermore they (the Soviet Embassy in Mexico) do not know

anything about him and cannot give him a letter of recommendation

to go to Cuba (enroute to the USSR). DURAN says that in that case

he cannot be issued a visa to Cuba either (until he receives

permission to go on to the USSR). 4/

c) Shortly before 1200 hours on 28 September 1963 the Soviet

Embassy Consulate, Mexico City, received a call from Sylvia

DURAN who said she had there in "their" Consulate, the Northamerican

who had been to the Soviet Embassy. The Northamerican talks with

the Soviet in English and Russian saying he was "just now"' at your

Embassy and they "took his address" but he didn't know it then and

went back to the Cuban Embassy to get it.

The Soviet tells him to

come back to the Soviet Embassy. The Northamerican agrees to do so.

right away. 5/

(One concludes from this conversation that OSWALD went to the Soviet

Embassy before 1200 hours on 28 September, then to the Cuban Embassy

where the call was made, then returned to

• the Soviet Embassy some

time after 1200 hours the same day:)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Military Attache Office 15-69-87

Item 408, page 1.

visa to go to Odessa. He is told to call 15-60-55 and ask for the

Consul.

02221

the caller with the address.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

ODESSA

Call #

BAJADA RUSA. = 15-62-97.

?'¡ septiembre 63.-

1126-L26-E128.

1033-1506hs.

34 40.

ki arcate

Entrada.- HF-dice que necesia gacar una visa para ir a -

ODESA,- HD que: 11ano al 156055,-} que pida al consul. - 415. HF

pide la direçción. lD se la proporciona.--

• 424.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-60-55

Item 74, page 2

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy

Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that

The unidentified man asked what is needed

to get visas to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the

Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72. (Colonial

America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the

telephone directory) and speaks with a man named. SAN ROMAN.

ALATRISTE Says that he is in the Russian Embassy and-they need to

know what day the boat "KALONIA"' will arrive in Odessa, that the

Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manifest....

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN are shipping representatives

for the boat "KALONIA", and needed routine visa information. First

a call was made to the first listing for the Soviet Embassy in the

Mexican telephone directory (which turned out to be the Military Attache).

They got the phone number for the Consulate and the address.

After

making a call to the Consulate and learning that it would not be open

until 1130 hours, ALATRISTE went to the address to get the needed

information.)

Item 395, pages 7 and 8

USSR. DURAN. wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy

because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets

approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything

more, advising the (Department of) Inmigration in Cuba.

She wants

to know with whom he spoke because he säys that he doesn't know

either with what person and who told him that certainly there would

be no problem.

The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute.

After a

short wait DURAN explains the

same thing to another Soviet. This

Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and

someone will return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone

number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing, she has moved anc

has not advised them of a change of address so will not receive their

Bulletin and can give it to them now. The Soviet asks her to call

KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN Says it 1S "Teresa PROBLA

whose number 15 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

---

## Page 7

BAJADA RUSA = 15-60-55.-

27 septiembre 63.-

L34-118•- T128-

0900-2114 hrs.-

tratar

lijt110.-

#

Entrada:- 1037 hrs.- Hr pregunta por el Cónsul. HD que no

estf. If que necesita sacar unas visas para ir a Odesa. HD que

Ilame a las once y media. HE que hasta que horas. H) le cuelga.

137

Salida al 45-37-72.- 1235 hrs.- (Colonial Anerica) --

ALATRISTE dice a SAN ROMAN que estan, en la Embajada Rusa y

-que necesitan saber en que fecha va a llegar a Odesa el barco.

SANRONAN le Fide espere un momento. 143-- 153-- SANROMAN que

unicamente van a estar el domingo 20 de octubre de 08:00 a 20700

horas• ALATRISTE que los señores del consulado necesitan una

copia fotostatica de los boletos del pasaje en el KALoNIa y

como ellos ya no

¡ tienen tiempo, que entonces a ver si les hacen

favor de mandarselos ellos. SANIONAN que 31, que solo le pres-

taran los boletos unos 15 minutos para que manden sacar las

---

## Page 8

DIDAJADA RUSA - 15-60-55.-

27 septiembre 63.-

L34-M8:-7128-

0900-2114 hrs--

Entrada.- Me del Consulado de Cuba, dice que esta alli ..

•5:-134-M.8-

.. un ciudadado Americano que fue a solicitar una risa para C

on Tránsito porque va para la URSS y entonces quiere saber coi:

quien habia hablado porque ella lo mandó con ellos de la Eubaj

da rusa diciendole que si ellos lo hacian o aceptaban la visa

que entonces ellos los cubanos tambien se la daban sin mas

tramites nadamas avisando a Emigración en Cuba, y quiere sabei

con quien habló porque el dice que no sabe tampoco con que -

persona y que le dijeron que si que no tenia problema. HD le

pide espere un momento. 404-- 410- MP es SILVIA DURAN del

Consulado de Cuba y explica lo mismo a otro HD. Este le dice

que le deje su telefono y su nombre para que despues le ilamen.

SILVIA se l0 proporciona asi como el teleforo 11-28-47.- Y que

aprovecha como cosa personal de que ella se cambio de domicili:

y no ha podido

avisar para que le envien el boletin y que alori

se la puede dar. ID le pide que llane a KOUKFARENKO para que li

de su cambio, y pide le de el nombre de la Consejero o Agregad:

Cultual. SILVIl dice que se llama TERESA PROENZA y le Ilaman

al 14-13-26. HD que cracias -- 135--

---

## Page 9

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery.

to the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia. DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET:

According to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)

Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the Ussk to stay

a long

time with his wife who is Russian, but also the

answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.

That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but

without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request

and even then, they could not issue the visa here (in Mexico

City) without asking Washington.

Yet accordingly this man

(the American), showed him a letter in which he (the

American) is a member of an organization in favor of Cuba

and said that the Cubans could not give him the visa without

the Russian visa and now the. Soviet doesn't know what to do .

with him, because he has to wait for the answer from

Washington.

DURAN:

..with them also, because the problem with him (the American)

is that he doesn't know anyone in Cuba and in that case it

is very difficult to give him a visa, because he was

thinking of processing his visa, because he knew it was

going to take a long time waiting for the Russian visa in

Cuba, and then go on to the USSR.

SOVIET:

..that the thing is that if his (the American) wife were

now in Washington (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the Ussk to return to her country, (1f

She is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having

this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this

permission, for example, here or in any other place (he) can

receive it, but right now they do not have them.

DURAN:

..certainly and nelther can (the Cubans) give him a letter

because they do not know if the visa will be approved.

SOVIET:

DURAN:

SOVIET:

They can only give the visa according to instructions.

Then that is what she will put on his application.

Neither can

I give him any letter of recommendation because

I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SUBJECT:

OSWALD contacts with Cuban and Soviet Embassies, Mexico

City, Mexico, during the period 27 September 1963 to 1 October

1963

1. ODESSA Calls.

2. OSWALD Calls.

3. Original Transcripts.

FINDINGS:

1. Calls concerning travel to ODESSA. Three calls were made in

the Spanish language on 27 September 1963 concerning travel to Odessa.

The first call was made about 1040 hours to the Soviet Military Attache

Office. An unidentified man outside asks the Soviet Military Attache

what is needed to get a visa to go to Odessa.

The Soviet tells him to

call 15-60-55 and ask for the consul. The man outside asks for the

address which the Soviet provides. 1/ The second call was made about

1037 hours to the Consulate of the Soviet Embassy (15-60-55). An unidentified

man asks for the consul and is told that he is not. there.

The unidentified

man asks what is needed to get a visa to go to Odessa and is told to call

back at 1130 hours. / The third call occurred at 1235 hours. A man

named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) inside the Soviet Consulate (15-60-55) called

out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial America, probably a pension or hotel but

not listed in the telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN•

ROMAN.

ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to

know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa, that the Soviets

will also need copies of the passenger manifest. (The

conversation suggests

that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN were shipping representatives of the boat

''KALONIA"'). 2/ There is nothing in either of the calls to suggest any

connection with OSWALD. There is evidence that the calls were not related

to OSWALD: a) in OSWALDS's contacts with Cuban and Soviet officials he made

no effort to communicate in Spanish though he appeared to have difficulty

with both English and Russian, thus one concludes that he could not speak

Spanish. All three calls about Odessa were in fluent Spanish. b) Marina

OSWALD in her letter to the Soviet Embassy, Washington, D.C. (reproduced in

the Warren Commission Report)asked specifically to go to Lenningrad and

made no mention of Odessa.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

1 October 1963 Soviet Embassy Military Attache Office 15-69-87

Item 45, page 1.

At 1031 hours a man calls the Soviet Military Attache Office

speaking in broken Russian.

MAN OUTSIDE:

... Hello. I was at your place last Saturday

and I talked to your Consul. They said they'd

send a telegram to Washington and I wanted to ask

you if there is anything new?'

SOVIET: I'd like to ask you to call another phone number.

MAN OUTSIDE: Please.

SOVIET: Please write it down; 15-60-55 and ask for a Consul.

MAN OUTSIDE: Thank you.

SOVIET: Please.

---

## Page 12

#: 4.

til. = 15-62-87-00

1/0 do octubro 63.-

120-M26-I129

1031-2002 1r'8.-

.. ..

Entrada:- 1031 hrs.- MP y ID en 1uso.-- 52--

RUSSIAN EMBASSY: 15-69-87

1. October 63

I26-M26-T129

1031 - 2002

МОД-

MI$

MO$

MIS

Мо; "

MIS:

In at 1031. MO talks to MI, in broken Russian.

Hollow. I was at your place last Saturday and I talked to

your consul. They sald that they'd send a telegram to Wa-

shington, and I wanted to ask you if there is anything ne:

I'd like to ask you to call another phone number.

Please.

Ploase write 1t down; 15-60-55 and ask for a consul.

Thank you.

Please.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

1 October 1963 Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-6055

Item 151, page 2

At 1035 hours a Man described by the translator as the same

person who had called a day or so ago and spoken in broken

Russian called the Soviet Embassy Consulate and spoke with the

Soviet guard on duty:

MAN OUTSIDE:

Hello, this LEE OSWALD speaking. I was at your

place last Saturday and spoke to a Consul; and

they said that they'd send a telegram to Washington,

so I wanted to find out if you have anything new? But

I don't remember the name of that Consul.

SOVIET: KOSTIKOV. He is dark?

MAN OUTSIDE: Yes. My name is OSHALD..

SOVIET: Just a minute I'll find out. They say that they haven't

received anything yet.

MAN OUTSIDE: Have they done anything?

SOVIET: Yes, they say that a request has been sent out but nothing

has been received as yet.

MAN OUTSIDE: And what... (SOVIET hangs up).

---

## Page 14

OBY$

LEE:

OBYg

is

LEE!

15-60-55

1, 0. octibre 03.-

134-N8-1320-

0921-1320. hrs.-

Entrada.- Ill y IN en Ruso

168--

ALY

In'at Kha (?) MO / the same person who phoned a day or

ago, and spoke in broken Russian/ speaks to OBYEDKOV,

Hello, this LEE OSWALD (phon) speaking. I was at your place

last Saturday and apoke to a consul, and they said that

they'd send a telegran to washington, so I wanted to find

out If you have anything new? But I don't remembar the name

of that consul.

KOSTIKOV. Ho 1g dark /hair or skin?/.

Yos. My name 18 OSWALD.

Just a minute I'll find out. They say that they haventt

received anything yet.

Have they done anything?

Yes, they say that a request has been sent out, but nothing

has been recoived as yet.

And what...? /OBY hangs up/.

(previously transcribed)

---

## Page 15

4=00000)

TAJADA RUSA: - 15-61-55.-

27 septionbre 63.-

135-N22-T138-

0907-1703 hrs -

Salida al 11-28-47.- 1626 hrs.- HD pregunta a SILVIA que

si ha ido alli ese americano. SILVIA que si, que alli está.

HD que segrin las cartas que les mostró del consulado en -

Washington el quiere ir a la URSS para estar allá mucho tiempo

con su esposa que es rusa, pero todavia no se ha recibido la

contestación de Washington respecto a su problema, pero eso

seguín los trámites ocupan unos cuatro o cinco meses poro sin

tener. ese permiso de la URSS deben de preguntar y mas bien no

se le puede depachar aquí

el visado sin preguntarle a lashington

pero según este señor le mostró una carta en que es un miembro

de una organización en favor de Cuba y ha dicho que ellos los

Cubanos no pueden darle el visado sin el visado ruso y ahora

HD' no sabe que hacer con el, porque doben de esperar la contes-

tación de Washington. SILVIA que ellos tambien, porque el pro-

blema de el, es que el no conoce a nadio, en Cuba y ontonces si

es asi es muy difícil que le den la visa, porque el pensaba

tramitar su visa, porque como el ya sabia que se iba a tardar

mucho en esperar el visado ruso en Cuba y ya dé allá irse a

a URSS. HD que la cosa es que si su esposa estí ahorita en

Washington va a recibir ahorita el visado o el permiso de la

URSS para regresar a la patria, ella va a recibir su visado en

Washington pero teniendo ese visado ella podrian comunicarle

a 'cualquier lugar ese permiso por ejemplo aqui o en cualquier

otra parte l0 puede recibir, poro ahorita no las tienen. SILVIA

que claro y que tampoco se lo puede dar una carta porque no

sabon si su visa será aprovada. ID que ellos solo daran el visa

do según las indicaciones. SILVIA que entoncos eso pondrá en su

planilla. ID que tampoco se le puede dar ninguna cartá de -

rocomendación porque no se le conoce y que perdone por la...

molestia, SILVIA que no hay cuidado y que muchas eracias.-.

331--

---

## Page 16

28 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-60-55

Item 208, page 2

Shortly before 1200 hours the Soviet Embassy Consulate receives

a call from Sylvia DURAN of the Cuban Consulate.

here in the Consulate there is an American that was just at the

Soviet. Embassy.

A Soviet

says to wait a minute.

while waiting

speaks to someone in background..."Do you

Yes. ..why don't you talk to him?...I

don't know..!' then back to Spanish, DURAN says they

installed a telephone for APARICIO and take down the

number as 14-12-99....."about this U.S. citizen, he is

going to talk with you."

•speaking in broken Russian..."I was in your Embassy

and spoke to your Consul... just a minute"

American:

..asks the American in English what does he want?

In Russian. "Please speak Russian."

SOVIET:

What else do you want?

American: was just now at your Embassy and they took my address.

SOVIET:

I know that.

American:

..translator comment: speaks terrible, hardly recognizable

Russian:..I did not know it then. I went to the Cuban

Embassy to ask them for my address, because they have it.

SOVIET :

Why don't you come again and leave your address with us.*

; It

is not far from the Cuban Embassy.

American:

Well, I'll be there right away.

---

## Page 17

#3

MINAN N0SA.- 1560-55.-

10 soptiembre 63.-

134-118.-1129-

0857-2035 hrs.-

доб

Entrada.- ME del Consulado de Cuba, quien dico que al:

on su consulado. osta un munrte norteamoriçano que estuvo

al.

en la Dabajada Rusa. HD que espore un romento. 213-- NF. 0S

SILVIA DURAN y habla INGLES con alguna persona fuera-- y co!

en español que le pusieron telefono a APARICIO y lo apunta,

•es el 14-12-99-- 230- SILVIA lo dice sobre el ciudadadore

norteamericano y que les va a hablar. -- 233-- 235-- Mir habli

RUSO. ID Ic habla en INGLES.:- SIGUA: 10S D0S DE IGIGS.--2:

-- 1151 hrs.-

MOS

MIs

MO%

MIS

MO:

MIs

Mei

/Ploase see the Spanish transcription/. WO while waiting,

speaks in English to someone in the background: He said wait

(RoE. 28 Sep 63, p Ti

•„Do you spoak Russlan? Yos. thy don't you tall to hin'..

I don't know.. O takos the phone and says 1n broten fuse"

I was In your imbaaay and apolo to you congul. Just a mii

MI takes tho phone and aske MO 12 English what doos te wai

/In Russian/ Please speak Russian.

What olso do you want?

I was just now at your Embassy and they took my addrors

I know thet.

/speaks terrible, hardly recognizablo Fussian/ I did not

know it thon. I went to the Cuban Embassy to ask them

my address, because thoy have 1t..

Why don't you come again and leave your eddrese with un,

not far from the Cuban Erbassy."

Woll, I'll be there right sway.!

---

