# 104-10295-10001

## Page 1

104-10295-100014.

29 August 1962

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Suary of S/N Training and Issuance of Materials.

AGENT : AMLASH/1

PLACE : Paris, France

DATE : 17-22 August 1962

TRAINER:

1.

AMLASH/1 was instructed in S/w techniques by the under-

signed in a Paris Station safehouse on 17 and 18 August, and was

given an Sid review in the final briefing session held in the hotel

room of Wallace A. Growery (Madrid Station C/O on 22 August.

Instruction was given in the use of

and in the use of liquid developer system No.l

Ho tine grater den

method of development was also densestrated to A/1 as an alternate

system. A total of five hours was devoted to this instruction.

2. All, who was recruited a short time prior to coming to

Paris, was introduced to the idea of using S/w by the undersigned

during discussions held in Copenhagen. Although for security

considerations, he was skeptical a first about using such a means

of communication, he was without undue effort convinced that arr

productive relationship depended uron his being able to communicate

with his C/O on a regular basis through. the medium of S/i letters

sent through normal nail channels.

It was apparent from his early

questions that he was unfamiliar with the principles of S/i and clandes-

cine communications in general.

After further talks in Paris with

Growery on 16 Angust, A/i was fully prepared to accept the concent

of S/ communications,, and arrangements were made for this instruction

to begin the folloting day.

The first training session on 17 August lasted a little

more than two hours, and was devoted to an explanation of the sti

system of commnication,

including careful instruction in the

preparation of a letter containing S/#. A/1 also prepared an s/i

letter of his own under the supervisiop of the undersigned. He

seemed to grasp readily the principles of the preparation of an s/d

.131l6

211

---

## Page 2

messaze and experienced only a little difficulty at first in remember-

ing all the steps in sequence necessary for the preparation of an S/W

message. He was generally attentive to the instruction given. How-

ever,

1n keeping with his terperment, he was a little impatient

during the preparation of the S/w message itself upon the cover

letter. At the end of this session, he demonstrated that he remembered

the basic steps in a satisfactory manner, particularly considering

that it was his first day in S/W Instruction.

4.

The second period of instruction took place in the same

safehouse, lasting about two hours.

This session was

devoted to a

review of the Sid procedures and the preparation by A/1 of another

practice S/ letter. Following this, A/1 was

instructed in the

development of S/s messages, using the liquid developer No.

The

systen of developent was also demonstrated. A/I was

impressed by the simplicity of the liquid developer and the innediate

reaction which it produced. The undersigned developed one message;

then h/1 was allowed to prepare the developer from its dry pill form

and to develop a second practice S/W message for himself. Followins

the period devoted to sw development, a general revien

r of S/W

communications was held, the basic points apparently being well-fixed

1n A/l's mind.

5. During the final formal meeting with A/1 vil 22 August

with Growery and the undersigned participating, the latter gave A/1

& general review of all the S/i procedures

which were to be used

In his contact with KUBARK. He also was provided with the following

Items:

A. Two sheets of s/W

B.

one 1a0 i or dereloper 1180

C.

one tablet of writing paper provided by TSD and

known to be compatible with the

D. 3 No. 2 pencils of French manufacture.

E.

One ball-point pen with water-resistant ink.

F.

Two accozodation addresses: one in

regular ecatact; one in

for rapid

emergency contact (see attached S/W data sheet).

G. Appropriate indicators (see S/w data sheet)

It is noted that A/l did not have a secure accomodation address in

PBRUMEN to give us at this time. He was told, however, that it was

imperative that he provide one for us by S/W letter within two weeks

of his return to PBRUMEN. This he stated he would do.

During the last S/w review, A/I was shown a photograph

of one of his practice messages which he had prepared.

He was quite

interested in seeing this, shich served to illustrate a number of the

training points which had been covered during previous instruction.

-2a

SEATST

Exclice:

---

## Page 3

Generally, A/1 was an interested pupil and it is believed that he

will be able to carry out the instructions in & proper manner. He

is quite security conscious, a factor which it is believed, will add

to his attempts to seek perfection in his S/i correspondence and

in the secure storage of his S/w materials when not in use.

It is

also known that A/1 practiced his S/W techniques

in his hotel room

after leaving the 22 August meeting.

This is known because he had

an additional question to ask us at a brief meeting on 23 August.

It should also be noted that the TSD technician who

developed A/l's practice letters recommends that for best results,

all letters from A/1 be subjected to

funing before immersion

in the developer.

Attachments:

Agent S/l Record

Form #H-55900

Ereiates ii.

---

## Page 4

24 Guyti

REPORT OF

S/M TRAINING, PARIS.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

AGENT S/W RECORD

Date 29 kupast 1852

1. Agent Cryptoryn: AHLASH/1

St supplies issued to the frent (date and quantity):

S/% naper

and L8 pills of developer

Tooth issued on 22 Aurust 1962

correspondence to the arent will be in Spanish and hanturitten

or typod; fros the agent will be printed or typerritten (in ipaniah).

Location assigned for placarent of s/s text: Eld text will ke placed

on the face of tha

Jlotter, agent hag, however, been instructed

to check both sides of lotters recolved for s/i. Lotters fros the

agent on face of

text.

5. Accomodation addresses:

To be supplied by agent in first S/i letter he sends (this to be

by 15 September 1952 at the latest.)

Acocumodation addresses for letters fron the agent:

Regular accormodation address:

Rapid/Energency accormodation address:

Agents letters to be gioned

6. Re-suppl arranzemente:

normal nanner. Absence of 5/1 messare indicates Losa of C

_Jaddress in

Agent 1s to expect next, letter he receives to ke a re-suppli sa land

(In the for of the letter itself).

If developer lost: Arent so indicates in letter to

_(in s/a):

re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which

Agent has been told to locate and report soonest b: S/.

Drop utilized and date loaded to be couveyed to Agent through s/d

message developed by

---

## Page 6

Ta Requ!red indicatore:

Por presenco of s/i on letters to the agent: ill lettere to agent

will contain s/i.

• To intrato lens of er lin mata ald elephoots: Aren

rites to

lotter with no s/t.

Agent writea

in s/ and so indicates.

re-supply ly mail:

Toon indication of losg of

staere (deo atora), preferall the next letter rent to

In any caso agent, understands

that any

" letter containing, the word "fines" (Spanish for

arm has een aritten on a

ai s/N correspondence on needed. Bleet, which he is then to us

So optional endia to any Letter received Agent ainto the the

"iscienda" In thel

/i sensage contatned therein 18 to he developad by the

Dangor or control indieators:

Lotters frat Agent: Ary word, mark, phrase, ete., after the

Spantsh word "FDi" at the end of the S/i message indicates

agent is under control.

otters to the hient: Acknowledgement of Arent's control Indicator

Le to ho made ty

duplieating hi "conte! indleater" in the

next S/i message to him.

-2-

---

## Page 7

Amic thy

AGEST S/N REDERD

Dato 29 August 1952_

to Agent Cryptony: AlLASH/1

Si mumplian iseued to the irent (date and quantity):

2 sheets of

J3/1 paper|

end Lô pilla of developer

tot Isaued on 22 August 19:2.

3.

correspondence to the agent vill be in Spaniel and handrritte

or typed! fron the agent vill be printod or experritten (in Spaniao).

4. Location assignod for plecument of S/4 text: S/i tort will be placed

an the faco of the !

letters agoat has, horever, been instructe

• chock both sides of lotters roceived for sli, Letters fron ta

agent on fece of

Ttart.

5. Acocmodation addresses:

To be supplied by agent in first S/w letter he sends (this to be

by 15 September 1962 at the latest.)

Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent:

Regular accomodation address:

Rapid/Emergency accommodation address:

Agents letters to be signed

6. Re-suppl: arrangements:

lost:

Agent writes

‚letter to

address in

normal manner.

Ibsence of S/i messare indicates loss of carbons an

Agent is to expect next letter he receives to be a re-supply of

(in the form of the letter itself).

If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to

_ (12 S/i);

re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which

Agent has been told to locate and report soonest b; S/W.

Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Agent through S/w

message developed by

method... see below.

---

## Page 8

?

Sequred Indicators:

For prevence of s/s on letters to the agent: All letterg to azent

will contain s/.

E. To indicate loss of writing nator!ale:

rites to

letter with no 3'a.

sheets: Agent

Developer: Agent writes

In S/i and so indicatas.

c.

Indicato

→re sappl: by 1a11: Upon indication of load of

sboete (see alove), proforail; the next letter sent to

Agont vill ie a l

ohoot. In any case arent understanda

toat ary coror letter containing the word "finea" (Spantch for

fara: has tech eritten on a

Jsheet, which he is then

Tar slis correspondence as needed.

B. Optional Indicators: Any letter received by Agent containing the word

"melenda" in the

lettor is understood to Indicate that the

s/i message conta ned trein is to ce developed in tha

Danger or control indioatore:

atters fros Agent: Any word, mark, phrase, ote., after th

ranish word "FD'" at the ond of the S/s message indicate

agout 1s under control.

Lotters to the Agent: Acknorledgenant of Agent's control ladicator

1e to be rade by duplicating his "control indicator" in the

next S/d nassaze to hit.

÷...

---

