# 104-10178-10133

## Page 1

104-10178-10133]

UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

•E ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON ENTIAL.

SECRET

#ROM.

CI/Ober

TO: (Offror dongroron, room number, ond

Bardong)

1.

2.

J.

Susan Gregg

03

EXTENSION

6537

DATE

RECEIVRO POSMAROTO

OFFICIN'S

INITIALS

24 APR 1098 6 APR. 05* )

DATE

19 Ax 68

COMMENTS ON a de a couma of at on commies

Read

routed in

emr

2 6 APR 1969

Read

Tib: Galt

%.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

13.

610 sacrous

[ SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAl

USE ONL

I UNCLASSIFIED

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

SEGhET.

19 APR 1968

NEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT :

Unknown Subject, Possibly Identifiable with

ERIC

• STARVO GALT

1. On 19 April 1968 I passed to Mr. Papich of the

and/or departed the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. Since the

photographs were taken by an automatic camera, the dates were

arrived at by an analysis of the frame numbers within a given

dated reel. The pictures vere probably taken during the period

11-13 October 1967; since 12 October was a holiday (Columbus Day)

und the Cuban Embassy was probably closed, the pictures were

probably taken on either 1l or 13 October.

The photographs of this

iadividual were located by Mexican Desk personnel who seanned

negatives of all photographs taken by the

automatic camera during

the months of October and November 1967.

These filins had been

sent to Headquarters for processing and were therefore not avail

able to the Mesican Station. The Mexican Station had previously

scanned, at the request of the Legal Attache in Mexico City, photo.

graphs taken by other means of the Cuban and Soviet Embassiea

in Mexico City.

The rosults of these searches by the station were

essentially negative, although one photograph described as only

slightly resembling Galt was turned over by the Mexican Station

to the FBI in Mexico City on instructions from Headquarters. (Sce

IN 93087 and DIR 92331 dated 17 April 1968.)

2. Air. Papich was advised that the Bureau is free to

use these photographs in checking the possible identification of

Galt with any FBI sources..

He was cautioned, however, that the

geographic location and installation where the individual was photo

graphed, the method of photography, and the agency taking the

SEGRET

11,85z.

---

## Page 3

SEGRET.

photographs must not be identified under any circumstances

without prior permission trom'this Agency. Mr. Papich agreed

to this condition and stated that he would specifically remind

the FBl agento of the Oswald photograph incident.

According to Mr. Papich, current FDI information

indicates that Galt entered Mexico via Lorado, Texas on 7 October

1967; that he was located at the Hotel Rio, Puerto Vallarta, Calisco

from 19 October to 6 November 1967 and

at the Tropicand Hotel in

the same place from 7 November to 13 November 1967; and that he

was back in the U.S. on 19 November 1967.

Richid b

CIOP/DO

Distribution:

Orig. and 1 - Galt, Eric Starvo (/att)

(201-832732RAY)

1 • WH/Mesico (8/0 att) ful.

1 = Assassin file (w/o att)

SECRET

- 2"

19aa : 31?821

---

## Page 4

SECRETI

SECRET

715319312

---

