# 104-10071-10062

## Page 1

104-10071-10062

, DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

10

iNFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

SECRET/RYBAT

Chief, WOLIME

ADDP; Chief, BUR Division; Chief, WOMUSE;

Chief, ICRIPTT/

Caref of Station.

WHALPHA/MEPROBE/RODIGAST

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Forwarded under separate cover is a memorandun prepared

by

which deals with MHALPHA-Ielated

individuals and which is useful background infornation on

this subject.

Thomas K. JADWIN

Attachment: u/s/c

Menorandum

Distribution:

C/HOLIMB w/att

1 - ADDE V/att

1 - C/EUR #/att

I - C/NOMUSE

w/att

1. - C/LCPIPIT W/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OELA-43626

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE I/RYB

7529

ACTING WE FRI

in Mere B-35

8 FEB 1968

DATE

EC. g693

EA:

19 January

1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

A T

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRETRIBA

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:

OELA-48626, datt 19 January 1968

Sistest: Black nationalist writers in Paris

1. At present there do not seen to be many black nationalist (American Negro)

waiters residing in iaris, apart fron william Garaner Smith, long-time resident,

who is ron at work on a book about his summer trip to the USA and meetings

with black power and other civil rights activists there.

2. iccording to Carione Polite, Minerican Negro writer living in Paris who is

oi ühe late

Richara wright (author of "iative Son"), who is now a literary

agent aù 20, rue Jacoo, Paris 6.

3. 3lien Wright's daughter Julia is married to a Frenchman named Hervé

. and

Julia is an editor of Jeure Afrique. The Hervés lived in Ghana along with

the #liian Gariner Smiths until the coup which overthrew Nkrumake Ellen

a poem or pamphlet aütacking James Baldwin as an inadequate leader of his

people (because of his homosexuality etc.). Julia ferve and her husband want

to gublish Bibbs! work, according to Polite.

4. Leroy Haynes, ino has been a resident of France for 18 years (he is about 56)

and runs an American Negro restaurant near Pigalle, says that the writer.

ne mors are Chester times, now nainly an author of crime novels who used

to live in Paris but nor apparently lives in Copenhagen; and Alex Haley,

autror o "The Autobiography of Malcolm X"'. Haley has been living in France

temporarily (nis zadress is 13, rue du Dr. M. Provençal, Haut-de-Cagaes,

Alpes-karitimes), but will return to the USA in February. He recently traveled

in jirica and claimed to have traced his ancestry back to a particular African

community, according to Haynes.

and has just made a illn,

La Permission, which is being shown at a US film

festival (possibly in San Francisco); Van Peebles went back to the USA for

this snoring.

6. Haynes is mentioned in William Gardner Smith's last novel, "The Stone Face".

as restaurant 1s a meeting piace lor all American Negroes who visit france.his

quest book contains ine signature o1 stokely Carmicaael, for whom haynes gave a

party auring his recent visio to paris, of the Martin Lither King group which

visited Paris earlier, ei al. Like Smith, Haynes has a white French wife, and

he is probably not much of a nationalist militant.

SECREIOVDAT

---

