# 104-10103-10250

## Page 1

104-10103-10250

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONTIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Mr. Sturbitts|

3C34A

INITIALS

3

INSPECTOR GENERAL

76-2344

5

6

ACTION

APPROYAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Returned herewith is the thermofax file

copy of the 27 November 1963 cable (IN

69266) in the AMLASH operation, provided

me to carry to the meeting of ll June 1976

with Senators Hart and Schweiker.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

SDBreckinridge/2E24/5527

UNCLASSIFIED

roM No. 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE

116 June 76

SECHET

(40)

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

placein AMLASH

30/

ROUTING

(вон).

• DIRECTOR

PARIS

TION AN CANE 2A

AMLASH

DDP, ADOP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/F1 2, C/SAS 5, VR

2

SIS C RESENSITIZEGK 2713032

DIR

DESENSITIZEO PARI 1664

Z2 Nu 63 IN69266

APOY MEYNAY EPSRUMEN UNSIERRA

NSIERRA HIGHLIGHTS PERIOD 18 OCT TURN 18 NOV 63

FLORA

l: 21 0CT.

INSNAFIVI6 STATES FOLOR DIAZ PARRADO TO BE PROMOTED

O VINISTER RANK AND RETIRED AT SAME TIME. SHE TO RECEIVE RETIPEMFNT

PÃY ABROAD SI-E• IN FRANCE).

ANSNAFU/12 VERY SITTER ABCUT THIS

WUSUAL ACTION

2. 29 OCT: TARGETS VISITED 3Y JAO SANTIAJO. TOTIASi COMPLAINS

BITTERLY THATSGRAMATSES TRYING TO FIRE MIM. STATFQUE WRITING LETTER

TO IMPORTANT OFFICIALS IN CUBA "EXPOSING SITUATION IN EMBASSY.

SANTIASO STATES EMBASSY RECEIVED LETTER FROM ONE MR TOUZET (COMMENTS"

O TOLZET LABORATORIES, PARIS) WHO TAKING COURI ACTION FREEZE EMBASSY

HURRICANE FLORA RELIEF BAVK ACCOUNT. ACTION BASED ON

EXPROPRIATED TOLZET PROPERTY IN CUBA. SANTIAGO STATES HE WILL

«VITUDRAW RELIEF FIND FROY BANX ON JOSCT. IF HE CAN. IINSNAFW/16

MENTIONS EMBASSY MAY HAVE TO MOVE. & COMMENT: THIS SIBJECT HAS BEEN.

VENTIONED SEVEYAL TIMES UNSIERRA AND INGOX BUT NO DEFINITE WORD AS

HAS BEEN QUERIED. NSVAFUVIE STATES MANIO GRACIA VANTEL

WAS RECALLED TO CURA AND STATES 45 DIVAS HEAVILY.

the come,?

DDI

Дрт

30 OCT.UNSNAFU/I? COMPLAINS. SITTERLY ABOIT OFFICIAL

3

50/wл:

SECRET

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No...

---

## Page 3

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 104.2%

PAGE.'

VISITORS TO PAYIS AID MOU THEY DIMATE YEVOLITIC STATEO ME WITHE

HE MAD CONCEALED TAPF RECORDER TO RECORD TYESE CONVERSATIONS. SHE

INE: IDES PAPITO SERSERA

CAS TRANSCRISEND AND ROLANDO

10

" NOV.: VILFREDO LA" VIBITS. (TELEPIONS CALL FROM EDITH SOREL

IN WHICH SOREL STATES "FRANQUI IS LEAVING ON THE -12TH". LAM

COVFIRYS THIS, STATING FRANQUI VROTE TO LAY SAYINS HE COING PARI,

LONDE THEN PRAGUE AND HAVA MENTIO! OF TETE CASUSO AND FEAR CASUSO

NILE TRY TOX

VILL TRY TOOK VITH LAM AND UNSVAFU/12 (CON"ENTE VIA NRUMBLE/Z, PAPI "A!

Havin

CASUSO ATTEMPT TALE WIT BITY LAT AND INENATUAI2).

LAM DISCUSSED POSSIBLE TRIP TO SPAI": SUT STATES HE MOULD ONLY GO

-WIÄN DIPLOIATIC PASSPORT FOR FEAR JE AJDES..

ENOV. UNSNATIVI? SIVES 4SUA ADRESS F NAL REVIELTA:

CALLE 22NO. 3771, 3/37 Y 11. "IRRAPE. "PLE 25996.

STATES MANY, DAY NON WE WILL TE QUEN SOSAYS TO MOVE IT OF THE

1416.

I NOV. UNSHAr! 12 "EACTS TO JAN MARINELLO APPOINTMENT WITH

ANSER, FRUSTRATION, "ÜD TEARS. (COMPENT: APFARENTLY FEELS BETRAYED

POUT NO FIRM INDICATION WHAT COURSE OF ACTION SHE WILL TAKE.)

1. 13 NOU. MORE TALK ABOUT MARINELLO. UNSNAFUCIE STATES S

FEELS DESPERATE, AND WILL -ATTEND TO MER PRIVATE AFFAIRS.

INS'IAFU/16 STATES SHE MAY BRING EVIDENCE OF EMBASSY CHAOS AND

CORTIPTION MONE FOR SAFSKEEPING AND MINGNAFU/I? ENCONSACES VET TO DO CO.

AVDRES MORENO, MUS VISITING, STATES CORONA MAY HAVE

TROUSLE SEING

ACCEPTED OY FRENCH IN VISH MIS COMMUNIST AGITATOR PAST. STATES

SECREM

---

## Page 4

CO, MESSAGE

3

MIPIRAT FOR 415 NOMINATION. UNSNAFUVI? CONNENTS THAT FIDEL CASTRO 15

MAINS PERSONNEL CHANJES NOU SO THAT WIEN KHRUSHCHEN VISITS ClBA

INIT VILL IMPLY HIS TACIT ACKNOWLEDGE"ENT OF

THEDE CHANDES. UNNATIVIZ MENTIONS THAT FIDEL IS AFRAID OF NEN

ISCASE DE RECORDINGS OF CONVERSATIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE IN 1959

MICH INSUAFIE MAS IN MER POSSESSION. ECOMMENTE NO FURTHER

CLATIFICATION. AND MAY POSSIBLY BE TYPICAL UNSVAFU/12 BOASTING).

HIRTIER CONVENT ABOUT MARINELLO AND UNSNAFI/12 STATES SHE MAY

HAVE TO VACATE APARTMENT. STATES "'E "ILL FIND

SUMETHINE YUT I DONT BELIEVE WE WILI. BE 59E FOR TANY PORE

MONTHS"•

3O COMMENT. SCATTEREO COMMEUTE THRIST CUT LATER TRANSCRIPTSTO

EFFECT THAT MANY PERSONEL CUANGES SOINS ON IN CUBA AO TUTELD.26

→ JULY PROPLE CESY TO SE SAINING STRENGT4.

ENSNAF V12 SEEMS FEEL THAT

MARINELLO AND¡ÇORÓNA 9SING SINT ABROAD TO SET PID OF THEM FOR A WHILE.

SEC RE T KAPOK

SECRET

---

