# 104-10221-10039

## Page 1

104-10221-10039

STURGIS, Frank Anthony

JAN '69 -

JAN 671

601-94125

NOL.V

biniae

---

## Page 2

OMF

ECRE

ME BasE!

PLEt

STATE

33/

0.

0

292.

EURO, LATE

303346

014, 613/E6 2

PER

INTO IMMEDIATE

7O1: IMMEDIATE

UNINTEL ZIDET 4

REF:

35600 TIH 457464| CBEING RELAYED.

1. APPRECIATE REF.

STURGIS HAS BEEN PROMOTING A STORES MIC /CA

INVOLVING A 2.000-MANPCUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE IN ANGOLAR, FOR

SEVERAL MONTHS AND WE EXPECT THAT REF IS A VARIATION OF THE SAME

THEME. DO NOT ANTICIPATE NEED FOR ADDITIONAL DBRISFING BY ZIBET

OFFICER # OR FURTHCA COMTACT WITH SUBSELT REE OY

2 SOLICIT ADDEE COMMENTS-y

3. NO FILE: EZ IMPDET-N

ORIG: AF/HEC

X93547S COORD: LA/COGE PE/IB/P

_ Do C/AF/OPS

I: AUTH: C/AF

DATE: 29 SEPTEMBER 1977

ORIG:

VSLS

WAIT: AF/HG/G

EXT.;

59El1

LA/COG-

E/IB/P-

C/AF/HE

CIAF/OPS

CIN DRAFTI

{TELECOORDI

295E077

-20/-6242256

- _ELASA

SECRETI

FORM

WATH отст

C/AF

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 035769

---

## Page 3

CARLA BEC DIRDEM BY 22 ven_

TOTAL CÖRIES:

SE 08 GT

##PRODUCTION

STA PRECEDENC

AF 9

ACTIONVe

MIDDO VAL

21 17 07

EDWA2 52

PAGE 01

108:.292013E SER 27

SECRET 2919100 SEP I STATE MAULINE WITNO

CI TE

35:010

TOS. IMMEDIATE CIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE

NI ACT. DI RECTOR

WNINTEL Z10ET

ON 29 SEPT 77 AT 1030 HOURS LOCAL ONE L

WHO ICENTIFIC INSEL AS A BRITISH SUBJECT WHO WAS BORN

IN CHANNESSURS,

SOUTH AFRICA ON 25 MAY 1936 AND WHO SAID

HE IS A LITERDÃY AGENT BY PROFESSION AND RESIDES AT 62.

REDKNOLL WALKO CHELSEAS

SA-S. LONDON WALKED INTO UNS, MISSION.

SUBJECT HO IS STATING AT HOTEL AMAT LUL

TORI GINALLY

CONTACTED DOM SORENSUM WHO ASKED THAT COS INTERVIEW HIM.

2. SUBJECY SAVE THE FOLLOWING STORY WHICH ARMITTEDLY APPEARS

DISUOINTED BUT MEY MAKE SENSE TO AFRICA DIVISION. ONE REASON

FOR INCOREPENCY IS THAT SUBUECT WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THE

STURY LEAKING TO OUTSIDERS T.E, THE PRESS AND WAS VERY RETICENT

. ABOUT NAMING NGMES OR DATES:

IN QUIE 1977 FRANK STURGIS SPRESUMAGLY SAME PERSON OF

HATERGATE FAMES COME TO LONDON AND CONTACTED AN =

UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER UF FNLA.

THROUGH LATTER, STURGIS

SECRET

IN 417464

610

301

---

## Page 4

TOTAL COPES

_SECRET

ARPRODUCTION

OTHER,TI

ISSUINO OFFICE Is gRONINF

STAFF

ACTION

T ÷11207

EJAe32

PAGE 02

TOR: 2920152 S6PX22

HOPED TO MEET MOLDEN ROBERTO,

SUBJECT LEARNED OF THIS

APPROACH AND SINCE SUBJECT SAYS HE IS A CLOSE FRIEND

AND SUPPORTER OF DANIEL GIPENDA, HE PUT STURGIS IN TOUCH

WITH VICTUR FERNANDEZS

SUBJECT SAYS THAT AT THAT TIME

HE DID NOT KNOW WHO FRANK STURGIS WAS,

8. :

VICTOR FERNANDEZ WAS IDENTIFIED AS ONE OF THE PERSONS

INVOLVED IN THE ABORTIVE COUP OF MAY 1977 IN ANGOLA.

STURGIS TOLD FERNANDEZ THAT HE REPRESENTED A GROUP OF

CUBAN EXILES AND WAS IN A POSITION TO MAKE AVAILAGLE ERDO

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS WHU WOULD GO TO ANGOLA TO PARTICIPATE

IN ANOTHER COUP TO OVERTHROW THE CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME.

C.

STURGIS AND FERNANDEZ REPORTEDLY SIGNED AN AGREEMENT

IN LONDON WHEREBY STURGIS PLEDGED FINANCIAL AND MILITARY

SUPPORT SACCORDING TO SUBJECT AFROM SOME LATIN AMERICAN

GOVERNMENTS) AND AGREED AS TO WHO

THE NEW MEMDERS OF THE GOVERN

MENT IN EXILE SIE. ANGOLAS NOULD BE,

..

DO GIPENDA, WHO AT THE TIME WAS IN LONDON, WAS SUSPICIOUS

OF STURGIS BUT WENT ALONG WITH FERNANDEZ' GETTING HELP FROM

STURGIS. GIPENDA THEN WENT-TO GENEVA WHERE HE HAS BEEN ÉVER

SINCE IN AMAT HOTEL. GIPENDA HAS BEÉN WAITING AROUND, ACCORDING

SECRET

1N: 317464

135030

---

## Page 5

968#

OIS06M

TOTAL COPE®

SEGRET

CRODUCTION

Mind office

STAFF

T 211787.

PAGE: 03

10 0: 29201525 SEP. 27

IN 647464

35610

TO SUBJECTO TO SPEAR TO MOBUTU, WHO AS HOS KNONS IS CURRENTLY

IN SWITZERLAND SUQUECT SAID THAT THE GIPENDA/MODUTU TALK

WILL FAKE PLACE IN NEXT PEN DAYS.

É:.:

MEANWHILE GIPENDE AND SUBJECT AND POSSIBLY GTHERS HAVE RUN

UP A QR:020 FRAVC CUSS 251222) HOTEL BILL AT AMAT HOTEL AND

EVIDENTLY THE HOTEL MANAGEVENT PLANS TO CALL THE POLICE IN

THE NEXT DAY OR SO LE BILE IS NOT PAID:

F. SUBJECT BROUGHT WITH HIM A FILE OF XEROXED DOCUMENTS

IN A LOOSE LEAF NOTESUOR ARION HE FLEETINGLY

EXHIBITED, • THERE WERE SEVERAL PHOTOS OF SUSJECT IN

CHMOUELAGED JUNGLE DRESS IN A JUNGLE, A PHOTO OF A PERSON

SIMILARLY DRESSED WHUM SUBJECT IDENTIFIED AS FERNANDEZ AND

LISTS OF EQUIPYENT AND OTHER MATERIAL WHICH SUBJECT SAID HAS

SENT BY SOVIETS TO CUBAN FORCES IN ANGOLA, ACCORDING

TO SUELECT, THIS INTELLIGENCE WAS SENT OUT BY MPLA MEMBERS

STILL IN ANGOLA.

G. SUSJECT SAID THAT ANOTHER COUP AGAINST ANGOLAN GOVERNMENT

IS CURRENTLY BEING. PLOTTED AND•

IF SUCCESSFUL, PLOTTERS WANT -

GI PENDA TO BE THE NATIONAL LEADER AND NOT HOLDEN ROBERTO.

SUBJECT APPEARS STRONGLY ANTI-HOLDEN ROBERTO AND SAVIMBA,

SECRET

---

## Page 6

i was to

DUCTION:

SEC RENT

•ST

T 3117 07

E1:A002

PAGE, OA

TOR02920152 SERAZZ

IN 43 7464

39610

Ho

SUBJECT DID NOT MAKE ANY PITCH TOR CONEY OR ANY OTHER REQUEST

BUT SAID ME WOULD LIKE SOMEONE CROM VASHINGTON WHO HAS FAMILIAR

WITH ANGOLAN MATTERS TO COME TO

SOONEST TO SPEAK HITH

GIPENDÀ IF WE WANTED TO LEARN MORE.

3.-

IN RESPONSE TU COST QUESTION, SUBJECT SAID HE HAS NOT A

MERCENARY BUT HE WANTED AS A FORMER SOUTM AFRICAN TO SEE

CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME THROWN CUT ALONG WITH THE CUBANS. IN SPITE

OF SUBJECT'S STATEMENT THAT HE DOES NOT WANT ANY MONEY OR DID HE

COME TO MISSION TO SELL INFORMATION IT IS DEVIOUS SUBJECT AND

GIPENDA ARE OUT OF MONEY

SUBJECT WENT TO SXCEPTIONAL LENGTHS TO

BE ASSURED THAT ABOVE INFORMATION WOULD NOT LEAK, HE APPEARS TO BE

A VERY WELL-EDUCATED, COHERENT, SOFT-SPOKEN INDIVICUAL IN SPITE

OF THE FOREGOISO STORY. HE IS ABOUT 6 FEET THREE INCHES TALL.

215 POUNDS, DARK BROWN HAIR HORS STYLISHLY LONG, LONG FACE, CLEAN

SHAVENO SMUKES ERITISH CIGARETTES, AND SPEARS ALTH EITHER A SOUTH:

AFRICAN OR AUSTRALIAN ACCENT,

• 4 COS TOLD SUBJECT THAT HE WOULD PASS ALONG SUBJECT'S STORY

SUT IT WAS HARDLY LIKELY THAT ANYONE WOULD COME FORWARD TO PAY

A 525,000 HOTEL BILL, COS SAID HE HAD HEARD OF FRANK STURGIS BEFONE

AND IT APPEARS THAT HE MAY HAVE SOLD FERNANDEZ AND SUBJECT A BILL

SECRET

---

## Page 7

TOTAL COPE®

SECRETS

RESTING

STARE

T 221207

ET AB52

PAGE 105-05

TOR: 2920152 SEP Z2

OF GODSO NO COMINENTS ORMANY SEORTERE MADE TO SUSUEGT NOR

DID SUGUEGE ATTEMPT TO ASCERTAIN COSIS ITYIOR NATURE OF MIS

35610

130

HOULD APPRECIATE ASAP, HES EVALUATION ONE SUBJECTAS

STORY AS SKETCHY AND DIS JOINTED AS IT SOUNDS

MOS HAS AP DIVISION OFFICER IN NEAROY COUNTRY WHO FAMILIAR

HITH ANGOLAS ADVISE IF YOU NOULD LIKE TO SEND HIM TO

FOR FURTHER LEERIEFING OF SUBUECT.

6..

fACE DEFER.

E2 IMPDEN

S E

CRE

---

## Page 8

SICRET.

16 June 1976

SUBVECT: LORDIZ, Liona Narita

1.. As the result of an article on Subject in the 13 June 1976

Nou ron bally News, Loco vas asked to do a fuie chech to desemine

connected withs the Agency.

2. There are several references, sourced to the Fat and len

LOkuNz is a self-admitted fomer girt friend of fidel CASTRO: She

claims that she met Fidel while on a trip to Cuba with her father.

Captain of the North German Lloyd Line, in Fchruary 1959, hocame

infatuated with Fidel and stayed in Cuba:

She served as Fidel's

mistress and came to the U.S. wich ridel's party in April 1959.

Flie

learned at that time

that she was pregnant by huma. Marita returned

to Havana a short time thereafter and hadia miscarriage.

She clains

that she was drigged and taken to a hospital where an abortion sas

performed, Pocause of Fidel's reaction to the pregnancy, she turned

against hiin.

LORENZ returned to the U.S. from Cuha on 9 Decenher 1959:

Because of the bad abortion operation performed on LORENz in fuha

in September 1959, LORENZ was-operated-on-by a Dr. Manniar on 20-

January 1960 at the Roosevelt Hospital in New York City.

1.3019:

+ 200

---

## Page 9

It is sald that LORiNZ appeared on the Todays Show on 14

June 1976, She reportably made the statenent that she at assor inted

with Frank STURGIS, and that she had placed some polson pills in

her face crean for the purpose of assassunating Fidel. A 24 Aprti

1961 FBI document statos that on & January 1961-LORENZ, SANCIS, ACK

PORKE vero to mect that evenins and attempt a unity meetins of

anc! Castro Cubans, The unity necting as sponsorca by lils coNTi

Aguero, one of the leadins anti-castro oubuns.

i have uncovered nothing

to date concoralng an assassination attempt (in this councutiong)

LA/COG/ CIOS

CC: to

for showing to the 1G

N.B. CONINE bý Qi September 1977:

---

## Page 10

UNCLASSIFIED

"237

NURNAL:

CONFIDEUTIAL

SUSE ONLY

PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

SUNCH ON

Frank Stinges.

16-P-1062

Mile 76

CO SECRET

S/ DHO ARAC

2641

30 00072

None taJa

Pu cru conventions

with whom me are

any outgung regen

Ve The requisten inth

DO /PIC Aten:

CISs

Tbe HT-1: 1D4127

•ROi

1] No record of subject (s)

No info identifiable

with subject (s)

See attached memorandum

40 does for poss, bla

meleasa.. duels dot ful

rewiewed

RETURN TO:

PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

+ 1999888893

TRAU

---

## Page 11

S072

151801

Thornet on told Concilsiton

Cantr 1 1a7112

Does 0o/

2310os

208050 CAsTang:

on to a treaten on onscion ances for costas

ccou

the

doct

nection lo recesses

cuttic oree

852

10709 CLAs

oie30c0sc0

no to conput

acalvettos unco

mid tomor

ind

2032610

F2T3

100ьto 05 1080306

797Y00 B

tho con Into and final costuate on

do resarda die sintee for thiste eser

go passers me be torets os

considerations:

The frust of Shoe to Cl

tho

proper accops cones,

eccutton of a conguter asurch le

Aretente nor costl:"

Ind toe eccord

•In chat in licht of the controveralat notuss of my best, e inlvor or reductrol

of charses nu conduce te che dusties

mes on the bustie intercos.

1 toretore

rospectfull ronuent tint close inctoro be corallared in the unlag of a decloton

as to die cost of sontlcos.:

In compllance with you

ronuess for lapreity corification ( pursust to

orovisions of the 19%s alicy act Beacon 3u

hoose ence do pite come me one bed, t been

address, my dato do melt do placat

or bron, andry cittzenole tennes

for your cooperations an

Sowxs trulti

STATE OF FLORIDA

COUNTY OF DALE

Before me

personally, anocared.

Frank.

Sturgis to me

vert, known and

кпокп..

to me to be the person de:

scribed in and who executed the fore-

going instrument for the purposes

thercin expressed:

winess my ianü aù virivi

ocat

this 19th day of Nax. A.D. 1976.

Tires (1221)

Nulady Public,

state of Florida

at Large

My cogisa

Freix":

Frat!:

onlorint

inctor set

Polo

PERS

- Fren!

Front Doarelif

Fraal: Cr:?3a11

Fidering

3c62205

538307 a

soul l decrises 1026

In coriol,

cited at sor o irerleon el:

sil

---

## Page 12

11.2220-

084 011192.3173/03 45322)

8lco 20p. 3s:

337540

702u54e

Ingelo

Stone

Bloreal

Sloan

3085.

0063-1265

9 06

7.965

c. 2000

4992.

9050-2259

952

19

5

3

961

337.3090

Coranton

dol sita

artno Corps Concure

Сто вок?

3.Cor Rectfie theatro)

onorable

03.6011

Jolned Borroll Polico Depto

attendes 1.W45 2ad

ares colloba

Sino attened vix.

071"

coletechate Incele

do connser of thie Virol-

Taverg 9:

9r0or

it tenorso

Togern on Boot Mala Stroes

enlister in te

done inval Reecave

nt the

"r Station

donorable dine insee

• 00:

Merchat derine travating to end fe

Furoso

1:gg.

aacationed in Soniny

onomhe dirchergo:

arterancinger or

Virginte!

Besch

Sub-Colorsh

Florices.

Curreral-y

Onand, Condeross 30:a9a 13% -

3ant!aco, 81:37.

1950:

T06r-0070:

Paro: "L03*

di: control osclear 3r: Jc=1

---

## Page 13

C 800.0080-4-05293-

vel

19,007

June

rospeto

coupovoll

0970

322al0

297568-06

7074-7973

31l end Cre

a busineas Concration dord) lanico nac

or moon so too tunen Coa

2.C0

3-327

Dea. Curion Made of 61-

Aderal.

on torto te bantury, Coins

ir Force

:0.

Dido: County Jatt

2030.8010

No the conceD Min Monte

Pole T3o

SR0311200

SIS COBAD

i Conste

4650

37t?

Yal Stum

STATE OF FLORIDA

COUNTY OF DADE

Before me personally appeared frank sturgle to mo well known

and known

to me to be the person described. In and who executed.

the

foregoing Instrument for the purposed therein expicssed.

witness

1976.

my hand and offictat. seat this 19th day of Maya A D:

Notary Public, state of

Florida

at Large,

My commission expires.

03:937

---

## Page 14

Ba 13

office of

sablie Talk

2.91.26

Central Intellinence

223

lor!

0: 33267

en 13%

1973

90:Inforraston Informasion euent

casputcetaod

rouest for any and all eval ole infearcten in

sad

Informntlos deft eoct

on 55a o crito 5, Untted st-too Code its

arentrent Gublic Lnu

1265?

pentaming to noran

tured orangers stern.

For cored

roferences

microco.

insou for yousin coperationa

Very truly yours,

Frank Sturelo

---

## Page 15

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHING TONE-D.C.

20505-

TO

Director

Federal Burcau of lures tigation

Attention:

Intelligence Division

FRON

SUBJECT:

REFI

Deputy Director for Onerations:

Frank STURGIS,

CIR-316/01746-77

According to a sourse of

thel

TRicld office

of the Domestic collection Division,

Subjoct disclosch

to

the source the tolloring intormation concerning plans

which allegcdly refrect Subcct's interest

and

Panama in conversations held on or aroundS June 1977

Subject has discussed plans to establish a Cuban Govern-

ment in exile on Angolan soil with the help of Holden.

ROBERTO, FNLA:

Subject is prepared on recoipt of agree:

nont

from Roberto to provide food, medical teams and

other forms of

assistance to the ENLA. Ostensibly, this

would be

a first

step following recognition by Roberto

of a Cuban

Fxilc Government.

This government would then

atteings

to raise troops ants

among other things, capture 15

many. Castro soldiers

as possible in order to

use them as

in exchange or trade

instrument.

The finds for such an

cuterprise ostensibly would come from Cuban Communities in

Brazil, Nicaragua, Panama, Mexico,

Venezuela and the United

States.

One aspect of the proposed unconventional war is

the

use of counterfeit Angolan money,

Aiso allegedly

involved is planning to secure Angolan and for Panamani ins

who oppose Torrijos

Involved in inspecified ways in these plans are

the following:

a .

Leoncll GONEZ International Coordinator,

Afro-Cuban Committec (appenis to he

inactive

at present;

formerly involved in the Cuban

Exile Morement)

b. Dr. Alida REINOSO

c. : (FNU) SOTOLONGO

d.

Nerwin

SIGALE - Columnist

for an

afteroon news-

paper

CLASSIFID BY

S1GNTH

EXENT FADO LENE iNC: 95 i91600

§ sEeds 889 1so do lt9 Poole o

Date impossible to determi.

pe-ial.18

0.8.

dies

M4? 190764"

01900

---

## Page 16

SUNJICT. Frank STURGISE

United Kingdow;

allegedy an associate of Roberto

colIn TAiLOR, An unelo of Stanley Taylor

The source las expressed an extremo foar of plusical

retributionshould his diselosurcs.become-knownfand.a

dis inclination to convey bus information diroctly to other

agencies

CIR- 316/02820-277

---

## Page 17

...

SUrGECT: Frank STURGIS

-Distribution:

Orlg 6 1

Addressee

PCS/LSN:

OS/Redman

Case 65889

Into

Contro

FB I/LSN.

LA DiVisIon

OSG. Chronos

Gene Lacy. - 10 August: 1977

---

## Page 18

se.

SECRET 1213303 MAY 77 STARP

CITE DOD:

14096

TOS DCD/-HEADQUARTERS.

TOS

Cso

WINTEL

FRAnK StURGIS

REF A

TELECON OF LI MAY 1977

IS A MIAMI-BASED ADVENTURER AND

PECDUCER OF SEMI-DOCUMENTARY MOVIES WHO HAS OCCASIONALLU

VOLUNTEERED TUFORMATION TO THEL

HE IS ACQUAINTED: WITH

FRANK STURGIS ON LI MAY 19,77 WORGAN TELEPHONED THE

AND IMPARTED THE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING•

2..

WITHIN THE PAST FEW DAYS, STURGIS SAID: IWAT NE (STURGIS)

MAD. BEEN, APPROACHED TO

ORGANIZE TRAINING FOR 200 PANAMANIAN

DISSIDEUTS, TO OCCUR A COSTA RICA:

TRAINING WOULD LAST 30

DAYS AND WOULD DE PART OF A LARGER

ANTI-TORRIJOS EFFORT.

HE PROVIDED NO FURTHER GETAILS.

STURGIS ALSO SAID HE WAS NOW ASSOCIATED WITH THE

"AFRO-CUBAN. COMMITTEE"

POSSIBLY A NEW GROUPS WHICH HAS

AYONG ITS GOALS, COALESCING CUBAN EXILE OPPOSITION TO CASTRO

ACTIVITIES IN AFRICAD

STURGIS SAID THE GROUP INITIALLY IS

SEXING 30 HEN FOR SERVICE OF SOME

SORT IN ANGOLA AND ZAIRE+

IN THIS RESPECT, STURGIS WILL DEPART SOON FOR LONDON AND

BRUSSELS.

FRANK

WE SHOULD NOTE THATI

AREA: ABOUNDS IN SICRIES ABCUT

PURPORTING IC CRIGINATE WITH STURGIS•

HAVE,

HOWEVER,

NO REASON IC DOUBT STÚRGIS ACTUALLY SAID THESE

TINSS TO MORGAN.

5. SOME C!

FILM PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES TAXE HIM

48 12 1 690871

---

## Page 19

PAGE 2: 0C0/

14056 SEE CHO

TO UNUSUAL PLACES OR LEAD TO UNUSUAL PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS-

HE HAS AN OVERR 10 ING CONCERN THAT ME NIGHT AT SOME POINTE

IDENTIFIED AS A POLICE INFORMANT AID THEREFORE WILL, NOT

CAL& TO THE FBI, HE HAS ALSO, ASKED US TO REFRAIN FROM DOING

SO IN MATTERS AFFECTING HIMO:

.68

NONETHELESS,

SOME OF THIS SHOULD BE PASSED TO THE

FaI

WE CAN TRY AGAIN TO PERSUADE MORGAN TO DEAF WITH THE

PORE RESPONSIBLE AGENCY•

ALTERNATIVELY, WE WOULD RECOMMEND

PASSAGE OF SUBSTANCE AT MEADQUARTERS LEVEL•

Z2/ IMPDET CL BY 011668

SSCRET

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SECRET I TISOR SEP 76 STATE

CITE, DEDI

13323

TOS DCD/HEAD QUARTERS

TOS

OPERAT IONS SERVICES GROUP/OSR (FRENCH) FROM HENNESSEY

WNINTEL

SUBJ 8.

ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF DCD/HEADQUARTERS 16628, 1 SEPTEMBER 19760 SAME SUSIECT

Ser 17

ADVISED US THAT FRANK STURGIS APPARENTLY DEPARTEI

FOR WASHINGIOND D.C., WHERE HE INTENDED TO TURN SUBJECT MATERIAL

OVER TO THE STAFF OF SENATOR HOWARD BAKER ON 2 SEPTEMBER 12760

STURGIS THEN INTENDED TO GO TO NEW YORK CITY.

011668

ER IMPDET CL BY

SECRE

---

## Page 21

5r/5./9

SECRET 2418302 AUG 26 START

CITE DEDI

TOg

PRIORITY DOD/ HEADQUARTERS.

TOB OPERATIONS SERVICES CROUP/OSB

FROM HENNESSEY

V NINT EL

SUBUS ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL:

REFS HENNESSEY

TELECON, 23 AUGUST 1976, SAME SUBJECT

THIS IS TO CONFIRM ERENCED TELECON

ON 23 AUGuST 1976,

WE RECEIVED A CALL FROM

LU WHICH KE

LUDICATED THAT HE HAD HAD A VISIE ON THE SAME DATE BY FRANK

STURG IS.

STURGIS HAD TOLD

THAT HE HAD JUST METUPIED TO

FROM NEW YORK CITY, WHERE HE HAD, BEEN LITERULENO, FOR.

THE "TUDORROY SHOUT

INTEYVIED WAS SUPPOSED

HAVE BZEN TELEVISED AT 6104 HOURS, 24 AUGUST, BUT WAS NOR. JO

STURGIS SAID THAT WHILE IN NEW YORX HE HAD STAYED THE:

WEEKEND (PRESUMABLY 21 AND 22 AUGUST) WITH MARITA

LORENZ

WHO STURGES SOMETIME AGO PUBLICLY CLAIMED TO HAVE HIRED CO

POISON CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL CASTRO.

LORENZ. GAVE STURGIS

A BOOK CONTAINING CRYPTOGHAPHIC MATERIAL THAT SHE SAID SHE HAD:

ST CLEN EROM THE ALBANIAN MISSION IN NEW YORKS

MORGAN WAS

SHOWN MACHINE COPIES DE THREE OR FOUR PAGES OF THIS MATERIAL,

WHICH CONSISTED OF FIVE DIGIT NUMERICAL GROUPS IN SERIES ACROSS

THE PAGES:

EACH OF THE GROUPS HAD A SINGLE LLE DRAWN THROUGH

AS IF A DECODING OPERATION HAD BEEN PERFORMED. GILGIS TCLD

NOACH TO NO SEEN GER ONE CARON AN IOUS

OVER TO SEDATON HOWARD BAKERE

A CALL TO BAKER'S START ON 23 AUGUST. STURGIS TOLD

COSTS SHUGE TORO HAD PIAO

LORENZ HAD GIVEN HIM THE BOOK BECAUSE ONE OF HER MARTA CONTACES

IN NEW YORK TRIED TO BLACKHATL HER GOR SOME REASON UNKNOWN-TO

FIGRGAN OR OURSELVEST, AND SUBSEQUENTLY BEAT

TEREATENED HER L'IFZ.

AS A RESULT, SHE NO LONGER

YANTED ANY

PART OF THE CRAPTOGRAPHIC

MATER LAL

IN QUESTION.

STURG IS

2ROMISED' TO GET II INTO OFFICIAL U.S.

GoveR seit

HAUDS"

E2. IMPOFT CL 9Y 011658

---

## Page 22

SECRET

N23-August 19762119

MEMORANDU, FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECTE

Call fron

STURGIS:

ot DCD Concerning Frank

Lora Tho, follow 08 Infomation as providod to

by hia DCDI

offico on 23 August.:

iTho informa't tonewas

Biven to the DCD L

101f1co bya contact (not tented)

on 23 August who obtaInod It from oscar FREELY. FREELY IS

WeLlo a book on crank STurGIS.

STURGIS 1o to appear on the Tomorrow Show at 20rn.

on 24 August.

whtch lo to be intrated by Tom Sclinetdor

STURGIS Just

rocontly roturned to[

_ ttom taping the ghou

in New York.

obtained Won hon N

While in New York STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and

book which,

Recording to sourco,,

appenred

to be cryptographio matorini and secmod to rolato to Albania.

The DCD sourco saw a "fow coples" of what he doscribed as

"mathematient matrix" matertal,

STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) " attempting

to contact Senator Bakor

to turn ovor

the material to him.

DCD plans to isk the source to monitor

situation and adviso

whether the matorial in fact is turnod ovor to Baker:

file

LN/ COG/CIOS

201- 242256

STURGIS

Told

ADDO

- lie will do

.. 8/73

---

## Page 23

ATLE GEL DISTEND.

48 - 21132

WANT MOTiPITO

ADMIRIN TERNAL USEONGY

ADIANA: GOFT JAURU BLOTTER.

ACTION NAIT.

CLAS

ACTION O

1: 372006

in AL.

018/tn) 000, 0/LSW/1D

doscle, L

8N400S

PAGE 02-01

TOR SS03432 NOV 74

"ODUETINA

OFVICEI

STATE MESSAGE

NOSAUDES

10 45 712

PRECLINE

• 1903202 NOV 24

FM

DIRECTOR.

70:

RUENOC/ SECRETARY OF STATE

QUEA

ILA DIRECTOR

RUENSI

SECRET-SERVICEEPIO

RVEBWU

•TORNEY GENERALS CRIMINAL DIVISION

DESTURDANCE SUN TR

AND:

INTERNAL.

SECURITY.

SECTION

AND GENERAL CRIMES SECTION

UNCLAS

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITTESA

A CONFIDENTYAL

SOURCE WHO HAS FURNISHED RECTABLE

THE PAST AND IS/

INFO

KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCESNING CUBAN EXILE

ACTIVITIES. IN MIAMI ADVISED THAT CARLOS PRIO

EX-PRESIDENT. 0F

SOCARRASA

FESSER,

CUBA, AND CARRAIN ECUARDO SOTOLONGON DR.

EULALIA

DR.. OT TEZA, SUAREZ RIVAL PAUL POZO..

ANNEST 0,

OR. PEDRO ROIGS

ALL PROMINENT CUBANS -IN

WITH HASHENOTONI RECI

THE MIAMI AREAS

MET

1974%

THE MECTRING.

HAS COUCH ANGERSE ON AONSUREOSEE

SET UP

BY FRANK STURGIS,

IS A PERSONAL

FRIEND OF

GHO SUPPOSEDLY

JACK ANDERSON.

IN JACK ANDERSONS OFFICE AND IT LASTED APPROXIMATELY 20

INE, MEETING TOOK PLACE

MINUTES.

WACK ANDERSON

WAS FURNISHED WITH

A MONCOSAPH WWICH

BONESOTED AN ADVERSE ATTITUDE TOWARDS CO-SXISTENCE DETWEEN

THE US. AND CUBA,

CARLOS

PR 10

HE ASKED JACK ANDERSOA

SOCARRAS WAS THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE GROUP AND

COMMON GOAL®

TO HELP THE CUSANS UNITE UNDER ONE

THAT ME WOULD

THE LIGERATION OF CUBA

JACK ANDERSON REPLIED

NOT WRITE -AGAINST CO-EXISTENCE:

ASSIST CUBAN UNIFECATTON IN ONE UAS:, GUT WQULD

SOURCE ADVISED ABOVE NEGLING WAS HELD SOLELY FOR THE

PURPOSE @FOOTAINING SUPPORT..O

CUBAN

JACK ANDERSON IN UNITING

EXILES JA THE UNITED STATES, NO CISCUSSION WAS HELD

CONGEANINO BOMBINGS OR OTHER TERRORIST

MANOERS

WERE NOT ALLUDEO TO DURING THE MEETING.

ACTIVITIES AND THÊSE

227

FOXC

U/21

O/ELAN I

Sele

AOMEN INTERNAL USE PREY

201

in Can le

pili

---

## Page 24

D0/0 0-318

CONFIDENTIALI

T.e

Pee dial

CONTUDENTIAL DEIGOPZ SAY TA STAFE

CLTE DC01

12520

PRIORITY DCOA

ATINI

DCD/OFFICE OF TH2 CNICE [

FHOMI

FIELO OFFICE (MENNESSAY)

SUDJs:

FRANK STUP013

REF:

THENWESSZY TELSCON, Y MAY 197AD JAME

Ra 8 12 501H74

SUCJECT

• AT. 1655.

ON 7 MAY USTA WE REGCIUEN 4 TELZPROUE CALLDN

TUS LISTED LINE FROG FRAKK STUROTSO WNO LOBDG/ TEO CHAT

SANTLO TO NELT HITH CS AE

WIGK CONLY MHOWMEEN

POSSILLE

"Itr

Cncek TKAT

fie

SxThoNa

RPORTANSE

To-The

FCRPCY

HE MENTIONED ÄT THE OUTSLT THAU

HAD

ANFE

TC MEDT WITH

TFITLO CEFICE ATFAST

FNLTER OATE,

FUAC TATDEUETO APPSARAT

рска та bip ast eoe oese thgee

dere 1i ras

TINS AID

TIV2- MACVADD MECTHIS!

HODEVER, WL IMNEDIATELY ANVISEO STUMTIS TEOU

NOT! LHI:

A POSITION TO HEGT YITU HIT

DE SUUaESTED

TArT yF He.

RECLIFED ASSIGY CONTAST

NC SHeULO Ee IY

TAL WASHLAGTON

LEVELA HE ASKED WHO IH LASHINSTON VE MIOHE CHELEEME

INDICAIZO THAI

NE VERE CHALLE TO SUUSLSR A SPICIRIO WAMES

THAT®

STURGIS

IHES

SAID THAT HE DIOVIT WOIT TO PLAY

SAYEG ARC

HE NAS PRePARSD

XO CIVE-LS HIS IWORTATIONOVER

THE TELEPHOSG

---

## Page 25

PAGE 2 CCDA

12321 COMFIDESTIAL

ME IMMERIATELY SAID THAT

IT CONCENSEE MERCOTICS lU MEYICO AND THAT.

A GLOECH OF VERY HIGH RANKING PEOPLE DERS

VE TOLD: *I

THAT IT JAS LANECESSARY TO GO AND RESICS BECALSRCTIDS DAS A

PROBLEM FOP THE

ORLO ANPORCESENT MENCY, AVC SCOLESTED THAT HE

CONTACT INEM.

HE RESPONSED THAT WE HAD

HAD CENTALS PrOLLERS

WITH DEA, EUT HE BADICATED THAT KE MIGHT CALL

MIAMI, WHOM HE HAS KUONY FOG FOULTIME.

MEAN EXCENGE HAS APESTERS ONE TRAITED GO SIE THE CONDS CARTON

WAS ICRMINATED.:

DuRiNG:

STURGIS WAS VERY PERSCUNELED

BUT FRATKE

SeriA THIS

CONVERSAT 1016

FELISUE TUST NE

AND WE

DO NOT ANTICAPATE THAT NE WILL ATTEMPITO CONTACE US ASGI

4

THE INFORTATION CONTAINED IS THIS VEXCEONDEM HAS GLENE

PASSED LOCALLY TO THE COS/OH.

2

INFOET CL

2Y C12658

C 0.

TA L

---

## Page 26

ка):

SECRET

8 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT? Frank Anthony STURGIS (201-242256)

This morning I received a phone call

from

: the

cos,

who advised me

that yesterday

Frank Sturgis called the DCD.l

office, and

expressed a desire to meet with one of the dcd

officers.

Sturgis claimed to have new information

on the

movement

of

narcotics through Mexico and

other information which he did not specify.

The DCD

Office thanked Sturgis for

calling and referred him to the FBI and DEA,

who would be the most interested recipients of

the information he has

Sturgis was very pleasant

on the telephone and the DCD people obviously

responded correctly.

Cy to DDO/Narc

SECRET

---

## Page 27

RE:

CURANOS UNIDOS

(UNITED CUMANS.

INTERNAL SECURIOY - CUNA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

Cubanos Unidor (CU) JeALCuhan exile Onti-FIDEL

CASTRO organ

zatlon In Miami. Florida.

purpose ts. to

un to ali oxi

Crours Into arunity orrantzation and becin

•tary operactone orningt the present Government of Cuba.

WILEREDO NAVARNO DEATO de the hond of cu. which

or anization now paintoine ostico epaco at 1996 So Vo let

Streot,

Wams, Colophono 642-0741.

On June 96 1970,

in tho name

of the Republic of Cuhas Thomonoy collocted

would be used to purchane arms for proposed oilitary

oporations aratnat Cuba.

NAVARRO at that

On June 15, 1070, un T-l stated tot MILEREDO

timo

win claiming that MAURICE FERRE.

ember of the Nomi City Conn union:

uban revoluttonary netivitios

"AVARRO claimed

nooting was held in the

FERRF

Butlding 1n Mant.

determined, that CU. had

adequato money, resourcen

NAVARRO said that ho Instructed

TOMAS ARENCIDIA:

a leading

nonber of cu to gutt his lob

and NAVARRO would roy his salary. SAVARRO explalned that

ho wanted ARECIRIA to work on a full-time basis er cue

Also present nt

this mooting vere three untdont tried-

Amoricans, one of thon reportedly has a quantity. of

arms storod at his houno.

SECRET - NO FOREICK DISSTMINATION

Group 1

Excluded on automatte -

doungradings and

declassification

DEN - T2/0

Залїс

(5 00) 100-7-14

---

## Page 28

RES

SPOT - SO TORTON MISS NIE

CUBANGS

UNADOS

(UNITED CUBANS)

on June 10, 1970, is T-3, another Gevernment

agency which conducts intollicenco investtrattons advised

Information han heen received that CU Focontiy heta a

to introduce Americans. who arc-hncktor. their

orcanizat son Tho Americana woro FRANK FIORINT And ED

KNISER.

STORINT callshimiolf the Chief of Intellirenco

Section of Cubanos Unidos"

NAVARRO BENTO, and advined as follows:

FRANK FIORINI, an Amorican citizen who has been

Involved In Cuban exile

revolut lonary matters for the past

ton years, recently signod a untty orreenent with Cl

this arreemont, FIORINI, who represents some inderendent

antI-CASTRo organization, agrood that political unity of

oll exile groups must.he

catabliahed.

FIORINI 19 not &

member of CU as such,

holds no official position, and is

not..in, charge of intelligence.

HAVARRO cald that a few days prevtously he

roturned froi Washington, D. C..

where again he was trying

They stated that JORGE coNZALe?,

algo known ns

"Bomb1llo"

CU. They: clalmed that CU.had no plans to attack n

-Russinn

vessel-off-tho const of florida.--CU had provlously said

it needed some 57mm recolliess rifles for this purpose t

Announcoments

they were kolne to do so were nade

for political propaganda

and also to stir patriotic

Cuban exiles to become more active in Cuban revolutionary:

mattors.

SECRET - J0 FOREIGN DISSEVINATION

---

## Page 29

RE:

CUBANOS UNTDOS

(UNITED CUBANS)

BOB RAJEY (phonot ic). a commentator on

Channel 1

TV.

s2412n1e

who will

travolcoith

WILFREDO NAVARRO.

ATLFREDO NAVARRO, londer of CU.

JORGE NAVARRO, brothor of wiLFirDo and

designated toval Chlot of cu.

irst Namo Unknown) RODRIGUEZ ALONSO.

designated Military Chief of CU.

CORDON DI BATTISTO, an Itollar having

Mat la connections.

EDWIN KAISER, reportedly with "U.S. Pronch

Legion**

MAURICIO FERRE, reportedly providon financial

backing to VILFREDO NAVARRO.

PILIN MENDOZA, a frIond of JOSE PERRE.

NM T-S Indicatod that it was intonded that

nercenaries

from Corsica would bo used.

lest 30th Street,

KAISER Bald that he had previously hoen in the French Foreign

Leston and knows

former lecionnairos who nou live in all

parts of tho world.

Many of theso lestonnires vould flint

as mercenartes i? contacted, but at the resent tire

reither

ho nor

cu has any plans to contact these people and does not

have tho tunds to pay then or the military equipment to losue:

them, WISeR said that VILTREDO NAVArRO is a long-timo

friend of Milant City Connissioner, MAURICE FARRE, and the

naturo of their relationship is bustness interestr.

KAISER advised ho continuos to be active in CU

6.-

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMIVATION

---

## Page 30

SECRET 181S42E JUN TO CITE BUNIAMI 2933

10650/08201

DIRECTOR

RYBAT TYPIC

FOLLOSING IS UPCATE SIGSIFICANT DEVELOPHENTS

WITHIN MILITANT EXILE COMMUNITY:

3. NOSE TORRIENTE HAS TOD AMCHÄLK-I THAT

NEGOTIATIONS ARE VELL ALOUS FOR OBTAINING TUO ISLANDS AS

TRAINING AND OPERATIOWIL BASES FOR EXILES.

ObE IS THE

ISLA ECATA OFF THE SOUTH COAST OF INS DOMIDICAN REPUBLIC.

MEGOTIATIONS WITH UIMDENTIFIED DOTINICANS FOR USE OF THIS

I STAND ARE TAKING PLACE THROUGH TYS ARCEUTINE CONSUL

CELERA 1A PUERTO RICO. TORRINE VAS IN PUERTO RICO LAST

THE GTHER ISLAED WHICH IS BEING USGOTINTED TEa BYS

EX-PRESIDENT CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS IS ILE A VACHE WITCH IS

LOCATED OFF SHE SOUTERU HAITIAD PEUINSULA, TRALaIRO.

ACTIVITIES AND RECZUITIUO FOR A MARITIME AND IUFILTRATION

COURSE 1S CURRENTLY TAKINO PLACE IN THS PLATI AREA, HOUSER

THUS FAR ALL TRAINING HAS SEEN CONDUCTED UNDER CLASSROOH

GARSON 10 POSESOSIC OF 20DY GE THS BANES OF 100IVIOUALS

122212

---

## Page 31

PAGE ¿ UNINIANS 7933 SEGRET

ECRUITED.

PLS FORUARD LARGEST SCALE AMMO ANU NYUMOCHATHIC

MAPS AVAILACEL FOR THESE ISLANDS.

3. THE CUBAROS URIDOS GYUUP CONTINORS TU AT LEAST

MANE AFPEARANCES CF ACTIVITY.

ANSMAP-3 REPORTS THAT FRANK

FIORINI 2201-2922568 NGS LINKED HIMSELF VITH THE MAVARRO

BROTHER'S AND GORDOS DI BATTISTO. PICAIM CALLS. HIMSELF

"CHIEF OF INTELLICENCS SECTION OF CUBANOS UNIDOS®

RECENTLY A REETING HAS HELD AT DUPONT FLAZA HOTEL TO

INTRODUCE MERICANS UNO ARE BACKING THE CURAÑOS UNIDOS

GROUP. THE AMERICANS IU ATTENDEUCE WERE FIORINI AND ED

KAISER. FLORINI TOPLIED THAT CUBANOS UNIDOS HAS UNITED

STATES COVERIMENT SUPPORT.

ANSWAP-3 SEL LEVES, AS MADY

OTHER CUBARS DO, THAT FLOATHS AUD KAISER MAY BE TIED IN

WITH MAFIA.

SIX MOUTHS AGO, ACCORDING TO CMSUAP-3, THE

SAME GROUP #ONED A SUPPOSIOLY DON-PADFIT ORCAMIZATION TO

TALLARISSSE TO AID CUSAGS. SOSES GESS PAINTED EP ARD

SELD TO 1000L GRIPANIES AND REFUGERS, TE IS DEPESTAY THAT

• "OEn" EATE 1S COlDS 03.

iT IS NIRDLY ROSSIERE TRUT

COLDOS FO PI: COO FARPEIS.

311223

---

## Page 32

82

PAGE 3 WAMIAMI 7035 SE CHET

•WE HAVE LEARNED FROM ONCHUNGES TINO PRECIAL

MODIFIED SERTRAM SCATS, 3U FEET DITH 2 LACH MERCRUISEH

INBOARD ENGINES RATED AT SES NURSEPUGEA CACH HAVE SEET

ORDERED BY HAITIAN GOVERNMSNT.

THE SUATE ARE ALSO ESCAPPLE

WITH RADAR AND FORWARD MOUNT AND HEAVY LAPON. TO DATES

ONLY 2 8OATS HAVE BEEN CONFLETED. ANCHUMP-S LEARNED ADOVS

AS RESULT OF HIS CURRENT PROPRISTORSKIP OF A MARINE

SERVICES COMPANY, REPORTEDLY, TO TOES BOATS ARE IN CODEA.

WHILE NO INFORNATION IS ABILALES TO CONTRADICT THE FACT

¿ HAT THESE ARE BEING ORDERED FCI THE HAITIAN GOVERNENT, BE

SPECULATE THAT THIS MAY BE ACTUALLY FOR CUBAN EXILES, TIE

PURCHASING AGENT US JANES SEXER NAU HAS BEEN INVOLVED 2IB

PREVIOUS PURCHASES FOR DAVALIER.

FILE:: 201-2907U1, 201-242255, 291-2391520 GP=I-

SECRET

---

## Page 33

221

10/32

26043:

ADMIN

INTERNAL USE ONLY

LUs 01

STION:

966228

My NEVa

ATES CHASINO CIA NOCO

doschie

E1 A243

PAGE 01

TOR 12405342 APR 29

IN 56129

FBE

DBD - 876950

D

R 2004502 APR 75

OM DIRECTOR, SBL

TO READIN WHITE HOUSE SITUATION

AITENTIONS MRIGERRY DE JENNINGS

RUEBWUA/ ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERALS

AND INTERNAL SECURITY SECTION

CRIMINAL DIVIStON

AND GENERAL CRIMES SECTION:

RUEALTA/DIRECTOR. CIA

RUENSE/U,SON

SECRET SERVICE (PID)

RUENOC/SECRETARY OF STATE

UNCLAS

UNSUB OTMREAT TO ASSASSINATE SÉCRETARY OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER:

AND THE PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA

ON APRUE 23, 1975 LERANK ANTHONY STURGES. SOLDIER OF

FORTUNE AND CONVICTED WATERGATE DEFENDANT WAS CONTACTED AT

THE LILLY FURNITURE STORE, 1225 NOW 119 STREST MIAMI FLORIDA.

HE ADVISED THAT ON

APRIL: 220 1975, SOURCE OF

HIS. WHOM ME: DE,

GLINED TO IDENTIFY BUT HAD FERMERLY WORKED FOR

CENTRAL

INTELLI

GENCE AGERCY, HAD FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO

STURGIS-ON-A CONFIDENTIAL BASIS.

LEAGUE,

A GPOUR CALLING LISELE THE LATIN AMERICAN ANTI-COMMUNIST

"SASED IN MIAMI PEORIDAD HAD

BEEN

ACTIVE

RECENT

WEEKS.

THE HEAD MAN

"O.p.

THIS

NAMED OR, DE CARCENIS.

GROUP WAS AN EX-CUBAN LAWYER

TREÄE

WITH

. THE GROUP."

WAS A REVEREND ESPINOSA MINVOLVED

HE WAS- SUSPECTED BY THE

• SOURCE

_AS BEING -A:

CASTRO AGENT AND KAS SUPPOSED-TO-BETA FORMER NEW YORK POLICEMAN

WHO HAD HOOKED FOR G-2 IN CUBA

IN FORMER YEARS.

THIS GROUP HAD REPORTEDLY

RECRUITED TWO NATIVE BORN

AMERICANS FROM THE NEW YORK AREA AND SENT THEM FROM MIAMI TO CUSA

SEVERAL AEEKS AGOIN& BCAT ON CLANDESTINE. OPERATION, -THEY HAVE

SINCE RETUENED TC MIAMI: BUT THE REASON

FOR -THE

WAS UNKNOWN.

IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT DR. DE CARDENAS HAD BEEN ATTEMPPING

TO OBTAIN U.S: PASSPORTS FOR FOUR

IDENTITIES UNKCAN.

NATURALIZED CUBAN AMERICANS.

NE.WAS.ALSO_TOTRY-TO-GET-VENEZUELAN VISAS

FOR-THESE INDIVIDUALS,

DORTNG EVENING MEETINGS LA RECENT

WEEKS,

THE

GROUP.

CUSSED MANY

piSo

THINGS.

WHEN AT

- HAS. REPORTED

THOMAN

WAS

TRAVELING TO VENEZUELA.

HAD SISCUSSE.

VAR: SUS

FLANS

FOR CREATING SOME MIND OF

INTERNATIONAL

INCICENT

DURING

200-6-1195814

40X

RECORD "COPY

ILY

24C4x75

160-9-14

20/

le

---

## Page 34

• some a

1.29 0G. 2098

FO

050

TOTAL COME

/INOS ADMIN INTERNAL USE CHENE

AIR 2. 9 ST AH, 75 MA

ATT

SSAGE

T 966200

ETAZ,3

PACE 02

TOR12485343 APR: 75

IN 5920

KISSINGERNS VUSTLIN VENEZUELA WHICH WOULD TEND TO DISCREDIT HID

AND THE

PRESIDENA COR

EVENEZUELAO

SA RESULT OF

THESE REPORTED DISCUSSIONS, -INE SOURCE HAD

BEEN LED TO DELIEVE SHAT

POSSIBLY THESE.PLANS MIGENESUCTIN

AN

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON KISSINGER WHEN HE WAS VISITING IN

VENEZUELA:

STURGIS EXPLAINED THAT THIS SOURCE WAS UNZBLE TO FURNISH

ANY OTHER DETAILS: IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INFORMATION AND NO

OTHER MEMBERS OF THE GROUP WERE IDENTIFIED:

STUPOIS UNDER®

STOOD THAT THE SOURCE HAD OBTAINED THE INFORESTIGN AGOUT

THE ALLEGED PLANS FOR CREATING AN INTERNATIONAL INCIDENTIIN-

VOLVING KISSINGER THIRDHAND.

THE WIFE OF A MAN WHO WAS

CONNECTED WITH A MEMBER OF

THIS GROUP HAD OVERHEARD HER HUS-

SAND TALKING ON THE TELEPHONE ABOUT KISSINGER'S VISIT DO

VENEZUELA AND HAD REPORTED THIS INFORMATION Te

THE SOURCES

STURGIS ADVISED IHAT NOW THAT KISSINGER'S VISIT

• VENEZUELA HAD BEEN CANCELLED, HE UNDERSTODD THAT ALL PLANS

HAD DEEN ABORTED" AND THAT THERE WAS NO IMMECIATE DANGER: OR

CONCERN.

ALTHOUGH

STURGIS

NO DEFINITIVE PLANS OF THE: ORCUP

WERE KNOWN,"

UNDERSTOOD THAT THE GROUP HAD ONLY DISCUSSED POSSIBLE

PLANS FOR

INCIDENT INVOLVING BOTH KISSINGES AND THE

PRESIDENT

OP" VENEZUELA DURING

SUCH A VISIT IN ORDER TO DISCREDIT UNITED

STATES VENEZUELA RELATIONS.

STURGIS POINTED QUT THAT THE CUBAN EXILES ARE ALDAYS

TALKING, CONSPIRING AND PLANNING SOME

SORT

ACTIONS SUT IT IS PRIMARILY JOLE AND HOPSEUL GOSSIP AND RUMORS

THAT COME TO NOTHINGS

STURGIS STATED THAT ALTHOUGH HE FELT THERE WAS NO IMMINENT

DANGER IN THESE ALLEGED THREATS, WE HAD PROMPILY REPORTED THIS

INFORMATION TO AN ACCUAINTANCE OF HIS IN THE W.S. CUSTOMS

AGENCY

MIAMI, FLORIDA,

THIS U.S, CUSTOMS AGENT

MAD. ADVISES STURGIS

THAT HE WOULD PROMPTLY REPORT THIS INFORMATIL! TO THE VISA SECRET.

SERVICE MIAMI, WHICH AGENCY HAD PROTEGIVE JURISDICTION FOR US.

CABINET MEMBERS,

ACCORDINGLY, STURGIS UNDERSTOJO THAT THIS

MATTER WAS BEING APPROPRIATELY HANDLED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.

SOURCES FAMILIAR MITH CUBAN GROUPS AND ACTIVITICS

IN.

MIAMIA.

FLORIDA

AREA HAVE FURNISHED NO INFO INDE

THE

INDICATING THE EXIST

ENCE OF ANY GROUP CALLING ITSELF THE LATIN ANETICAN ANTI-COMMUNIST

"LEAGUE.

•SON APRIL Z, 1975, A CORFIGHTILL SO'=-.

IS FAMILIAR

ALMIN iNTERNAL. 1S.

---

## Page 35

121

MG: 3193

CABLEBEC DIAM

r0..

ADMIA INTERNAL USE ONLY.

MESSAGE

TION

ACTION

T. 966208

E1A243

PAGE 03-03

TORI20OS343 APR575

1N 561301

109 204

WITH CUBAN COMMUNITY ACTAVITIES AND WAS FUPNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN THE PASTE REPONTED AS FOLKSWSS

CON MARCH 240 19750 REVEREND MANUEGOESPENOSA, DIAZ.

MINISTER

OF THE

PENTECOSTAL CHURCHE ACCOMPANIED BY FOUR CUBAN EXILESO

BOARDED THEY 00AT.

"WAN ININI DLY

WAS PILOTED BY ANOTHER CUBAN NAMED JOSE CARDENAS.

THEN GROUP,

CLANDESTINELY WENT

TO THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA: AND REVEREND

ESPINOSA CARRIED A LIST OF OVER THIRTY THOUSAND CUBANS WHO HAD

BEEN UNABLE TO COME

TO THE UNITED STATES TO JOIN THEIR RELATIVES.

REVEREND ESPINOSA HAD AN INTERVIEW WITH FIDEL CASTRO IN AN EFFORT

TO ARRANGE THE LEGAL DEPARTURE OF THESE PEOPLES

SUBSEQUENTLY ON MARCH 31• 1975, IT WAS LEARNED IN MIAMI

THẠT

THE

"WAHININE 11" HAD RETURNED TO MARATHON, FLORIDA ESCORTED:

BY THE U.S, COSY GUARD.

ON THE SHIP,

IN ADDITION

TO REVEREND

ESPINOSA

AND

AND HIS CUBAN EXILE COMPANIONS

WERE

TWO U.S: NEWSMEN:

CAMERAMEN FROM CHANNEL THO TV, MIAMI, IDENTIFIED AS KY BURTON

AND

KAPY KAPERMANd

A COPY OF THIS COMMUNICATION IS BEING FURNISHED TO U.S. SECRET

SERVICE, MIAMI

ADMIR INTERNAL USE GNLY

---

## Page 36

4 WH/COG 362-74

25 January 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

DCD Contact with Frank Sturgis of the

Watergate Plumbers Group

Frank sturgis contacted DCD in

recently

and reque od a ween pes, who parently did los

rocognize the nand at first, agreed to meet wich him.

The DCD meeting with Sturgts has been eleäred withe

CIA Legal Counsel, and was Cleared with

the "Do on 25- January!

1974

do specte date for the se

meeting was-given to ml,

butait is assumed thatithe

meeting will take place wichi

the next few days:

C/WH/ COGE

E2F IMPDET:

CLABY 054555

---

