# 104-10239-10021

## Page 1

1104-10239-10021

",

' a cane

2 March 106S

#1/6+65-84

id -2306

MEMORANDUM YOK:

Chief, ill/s

SUBJECT

General: ANUG/& jebriefing Repurt $287

speculie:

rhotu-coples of Documents re

nored from the f

74

Na Mexico

1. Un 3 tobruary 1063, AMAUG/l was shown castes al

24

several document retrieved (ro the

In Mexico by tierico Cily statiou Jf those showa l AMMUG/1,

the attached were the only ones identifiable to hia as correspondence

pertainlug to the LGI (Directorto ¿eneral de Inteligencia),

do AbilUll pointed out tie following ltenia of algnillcance

In relerence to the attached correspondence:

As The nause "ALUENTO written in pen la the upper

right hand corner probably refers to the "ALBERTO".

of the lon soction us the l

I. The nanie in the upper rliht hand corner indicates

the parson to whou the reply should be directed.

C. The name "FETRU' written in the upper right hand

corner relors to Jose liquel iOd rerunadar. who was

assigned to the Cavan Labassy In Mexico.

D. The signature "PADLO" Indicates ll ls correspondence

from Cuba lo Mexico

5. There docun ents sero forwarded as attachmenta lo

HNLVA-25052, dated 28 Vaceuber 1tit

Attachments: Translation of fragments

Distribution:

2-; 11/1, w/att

1-AH/C/ESEC, w/o att

C/ 0:0/0/31/05

2- AMMUG/1, w/atts

I-diary/Deroice, w/atte

1- Lois, w/atts

2-11 (1S-5-1 and 201-720852 w/asts)

shas

---

## Page 2

Attachment to is. -2500

(l'age No. 13)

20/ICI: Reminder for Eulugto:

1 the month of Januar

_1 ana forwarding a cable

rom bi-One requestiny films of that country and other Central Amerten

countries.

al the operation.

Revolutlonary,

Pablo

(Page 15)

S/NICL

Comrade ferro

several days ago we received a request from comrade

Euloglo with reference to your need of a loan lo pay some debts,

which resulted from recent purchases made by you.

We are aware that your wore requires certain conmodaties,

such as a presentable hourse, capable of making persons, who you

receive, leel comfortable in the atmosphere they are in

Now, you should have analyzed your economic poarlbllities

before Incurring those debts. Il you had done so you would have

reallzed that these were not within your reach (budget), los

wich reason you would have turned to us, with the purpose o

finding a solution to that probler:.

rie are instructing conrade zulogio to maxe you a reasonable

loan with which you can get out of your present debts.

In the luture you should consult us and In particular present

• plan to comrade Euloglo, un any problec of that nature, "ll

he confidence that it will be solved

You should make us a report justllying the loas that you will

get to pay the debts you have.

---

