# 104-10133-10375

## Page 1

104-10133-10375

MACCANO, OR INTALS - SEEN AY

22164:

ROBERT

c. BROWN

WH/Z/ ES&HOND

EXTE

7163

DA85:

25 OCTOBER 1968

CALE SECRETARLAT DISSHMNATION

2-

•LESSAGE FORM

• TOTAL COPIES:

SECREIZ3

INDEX

O DESTROY

NO INDEX

I FILE IN ES FILE NO.

RETURN TO

SeANCH

FILE RID

CONF.

INH8

-INFO:

RID COPY

SECRET

16-z

25 20 3-17 2 0ст 63

CITE DIRECTOR

(olite)

Iraterence nurborl

450

7O

Г

INFO

16-13/2

MEXICO CITY COBRA

204080

MEXICO CITY 7793: (BEING RELAYED TEGUCIGALPA)

REUTERS REPORT OF: 25 OCTOBER FROM BELIZE SAYS

POLICE HOLDING 13 AMERICANS' WHO SET UP ARMED CAMP ON TINY

ISLAND OF SHAG BOQUE CAY SOUTHEAST OF BELIZE. CAPTAIN

ALONZO CAMPOS ESCALANTE OF MEXICAN FISHING BOAT "AMIGO"

TOLD POLICE BOAT HAD BEEN HIJACKED BY AMERICANS.

"THEY

ORDERED BOAT TO HEAD FOR BRITISH HONDURAN WATERS WHERE

7035

RENDEZVOUS WITH ANOTHER BOAT WAS PLANNED. NAMES OF FIVE OF

13 AMERICANS ARE CHARLES ORR CONNELL AGE 30, ROBERT CURTIS

AGE 31 OF POMPANO BEACH FLORIDA, HERBERT JOHN FENDERN AGE

26 OF VERO BEACH FLORIDA, FRANK: BONELLI AGE 44 AND MAX

GORMAN BOTH FROM MIAMI. POLICE CONFISCATED RIFLES, CARBINES

AMMO AND ANTI-COVMIE LITERATURE.

2. NAME OF SECOND BOAT NOT PROVIDED.

3:

INDEX FIVE AMERICANS WHO PLANNED SET UP BASE FOR

OPS AGAINST CUBA, FILE 108 120-11.

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICEN

CHOEP I

sciuded ires outamatie

doungrading end

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER:

SECRET

REPRODIJCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NI

3150

---

## Page 2

BIG:

то :

2/00.0

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN EY

MESSAGE FORMA

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

2: INDEX

B

INFO:

NO INDEX:

10

• BRANCH

FILE. AI

RID cOpy

DESTROY.

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

VE

(date and time filed) mi

RETURN TO

Shes (elite)

(reference numbar)

SE CER ENT

CITE DIRECTOR.

WH Comment:

PAGE TWOK

Ref describes theft of "El Amigow and involvement

of Max GORMAN, Robert F. CURTIS and others who

planning set up base for ops against Cuba and

→ to go to Guatemala and clean out anti-Guat

guerrillas

27:54

Calm. M. Suntti

JOHN R. HORTON

AC/ WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

1/3/6 D Burris (telecoord)

03

'(telecoord)

Ilianse

WH/COG J. Mertz (telecoord)

C/WH/2

COORDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

AUTTENTICATI

OFFICER

edunpractig

instaltiestion

COFi

---

