# 104-10192-10060

## Page 1

104-10192-10060

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect.

2: on

back. Deis-: sask

flap and forsard lo

RID.

2.

Dostroy front cover

Sheet, unless

rocords signifleant action take= or

contents roquiring preservatio..

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Is filo no. and title shown aro not

proper,

insert propor file no. below

and formard documant to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

"° Do Noi Reproduce

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

FILL IN SECTICN I ON BACK. IN APPROPHIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED PORRASSE

FAJPIAGE

WH 046 Barton

PT

•лам

Okat

10-12: Wild this be

usefel th

12-10 have de bakeel

1ừH/ Chile

14.

15.

18.

€

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMEO

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FILE TITLE

FiLE MUMDER (PRiMARY COOGI

19-126

COCUMENT DATE

¡ COCUMENT NUMBER

.. HÁMA

06684

---

## Page 2

LISPATCH

TO

¡NO

Chief, Mi

SECRET

ANA- 6084

FRoMnior of Station, labana 43g

Overt tional/KUCADE

A:¿ALil Publication Progran:

ACTION ArJUNIO

leadquarter®s discretion

1.ti6664

unknown

Flold file no. 33-137-45

17 Auguat 1960

MARLED fOR iNDERING

NO INDIRING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN DE JUDGES

ET QUALIFIED MO DESA CARE

Attention le Invited to paragraph 2i of Reference. Attached 1u the translation

of VaI. Lenin on folision, together with the linglien version orlainally provind ay

Hoadquarters reGIONGEr. NPALiAL states that the tranolation uea nado by a priest.

but did not raveal bis nase. Once the Spenish edition la publiahed, the Station mill

obtala a number of coples ibict may be of use to other Stationa. In sion or esa

/ Linitod number which can be sent by pouch, Headquarters may wish to make the attacterl

translation available to sone other publications facility.

But Rhit

Attachnents:

See above

Distribütions

3 - Headquarters (w/att)

2 • files

16 August 1960

WRA/1t3

KM FORGET

is releasable

BH 8/3/98

Renored tron protosa.

CS Ciassification:.

1?-iiei-18

1036÷5-86/75

Box:

9... foid: /

ES GOPY.

HKHA- 66514

FOuN

USE PERIOUS ID-TION

0198683+3805

#EAs

---

