# 104-10186-10280

## Page 1

104-10186-10280

HINFORMATION REPORT

SINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

within che meanins of too laplanato laws, TiRe

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Elpidio INTERIAN Comozanas

REPORT NO. CS CI-316/00633-64

DATE DISTR. 13 AuguSt 1964

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLAcE & Wishington, D. C.

DATE ACO. AuguSt, 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION. BOURCE ORADINOS ARE DIFIMITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1961.

Headguarterg Comments

ne following report in one of a series containing personalit

nformation provided by the source and includes supplementa

information from tho records of this Agency:

It is roquested that the addressees take no actior: on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

1.

Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanas is a servant in the Cuban Embassy

In Mextco City.

Source saw INTERIAN at the Embassy in March

•Embassy to see Rogelio RODRIGUEZ,

conterence.

Headquarters Comments

1.

4

3

2

3/00

and code clerk.

His wife 1s 01lberta JORGES Caceres.

brothers,

one, Guadencio INTERIAN Comezanas, born in

Habana on 18 February 1927, is a diplomatic

courter,

the other brother, nome unknown,

is believed to be in

Cuba and a medium level PURS official.

2.

A report dated 12 February 1964, stated that Elpidio

INTERIAN Comezanas is the holder of passport D/63/427;

his wife, Gilborta JOnGe Caceres, Is une hotder of

passport

D/63/428; daughter Esther is included on wife's

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I. DIA

I ARMY

I NAVY

INSA

x40xx

1 oce

REP CINCLANT CINCSO # IRNS

Mate: Viald dirtribution todicated by " st".)

5

SHou

1 FBI 2

INFORMALLON RERORI

NK SA/EOBI 1| WE/5/R

CI/LIA

W/ SA/MOB: 1

HE/MADB

12

3

WH SAR

INFORMATION REPORTE

TEA

IEl

W/Has

11-1634

$O PROJECT (AYHUG/1)

CSCI-316/00683-54

RUDLAN

1

DH. WAYE

TOTAL

LIAISON

WAK: LD: SAk

CI/RSA.

MUSAIL. VEL (2). 6I1 RIDI

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3.

* .

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

passport: and daughter Dolores is holder of passport D/63/429.

INTERIAN'S brother, Guadencio,

1s a diplomatic courter and

was born on lo Fobruary 1927; in May 1903 he traveled to

Switzerland, In October 1963 to Zurich and Prague, and from

I8 to 16 January 1964 traveled to Djakarta, Canton, and

Hanod. His brother Armando was the secretary gereral of

the Guanabacoa Regional Committee of the Partinuo Socialiata

Popular (PSP). Armando spoke at a neeting of thie Juventud

Socialista in Regla and condemned the landing of United

states troops in Lebanon, praised Soviet policy, anc

•alled unon the Cuban Communists to initiate an Intenaive

propaganda campaion against the United States/United

Kingdon intervention in the Near East.

In September 1963,

was reportedly the leader of the Organizaciones

Revolucionarias Integradas.

A group of Cuban emigre's trained in the techniques of

information collection and who have provided useful reporte

for two years said in a report dated 19 March 19G4, that

Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanas is a Go% agent in the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico who deals directly with the Ambassador.

INTERIAN was described as a rough, reserved individual

with a sickly wife who is rarely seen.

In a report datod 9 July 1964, from a restdent of Mexico!

who has reported reliable information for about three

years it was learned that Cubana air passages vere

authorized by labana for Elpidio INTERIAY Comozanas and

his family.

INTERIAN and his family arrived in Mexico

in July 1963.

Source said that with the departure of

INTERIAN, the Cuban Embassy would have a new code clerk.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

