# 104-10211-10060

## Page 1

104-10211-10060

SECRET

EYES ONLY

AMORANDON FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: ESPORT ON INTERROGATION

DATE: 30 July 1985

Today's interrogation consisted of tuo sbort semalon

(2410-1515, add 1610-1650).

subject sas confronted with proof

of bis errore on Konsomol regulations, and also of basic

geography in kaliningrad Oblast.

Questioning was confined

to those too areas, and will be described belor. In addition,

there noro some interosties additional indications that

Subject say have opent sose timo in Soviet jall or prison

2. KOMSOMOL:

Dospite a number of loading questions and hints,

Subject was unable to rocall that Komsonol Congress (the

12th) took place in Yebruary 1054, shile he vas allegedly

the Secretary of the SCD K/O. If be had really been a

Konsonol Secrotary at the time be-should remember the Congress

very volt, since be would bave been involved in Its preparations.

Told about it, Subject sald that much Congresses toot place

proctically every year.

This ta false; the previous Komsomol

Congress, the Ilts, vas 1a 1949.

b) Subject again stated that he was. sure that the

malmn age for Jonsonol mombors at that time mas 27.

Subject

as show the pertinent fouronol reguntions for the period,

which provide that the mxim age is 26.

Subject simply

contined to luaist that he le sure that be vas excluded

from the Konsonol in 1954 when he reached the age of 37, and®

that no exceptions vere made for bie.

He did not comment on

how he could be wrong on the regilations 1f he had been a

Konsonol Secretary.

In the discusatos of Konsonol regulations, Subject

contined to insist that the dues voro 2% for all mnberg.

He spotted the paragraph about 2% entry does in the regulationa

that vers show to bin and sa d that monthly does ver

identical •1th entry dues.

1h18 18 not so, but as ve do not

have a copy of the 1919 membornhip does scale, I was not

able to sir bia documentary prool of bis error.

печь

SECRET

PISS CHLY

---

## Page 2

0...

920787

EVES GILY

d)

Subject was again unable to describe how he was

permnently registered as a member of the MVD K/0, bou be

performed his daties as a Secretary or what these duties

were in connection with the 12th Donsomol Congress, or to

mae the Secretary of the IVD K/O.

3.

Beroice in the Baltic: In the course of the diacussion

of bia service

In the Baltic Is 1952, Subject made such 1n-

credible errors, and gave such lame descriptions of his work,

that lt ia neceasary to conctude that he did not serve there

as an intelligence officer, aud that if he has ever vinited

that area at all lt vas only very briefly.

a)

Subject not only was unable to name the Chief of

Intelligence of the ath Naval Float, he could not even give

him proper title bo instated that bia official designation

"nachalnik razvedki;" actually, of course, it should be

"nachalalk rarvedyvatelnogo upravleniya" of the 4th fleet).

b)

Subject does not know the nane of bia immediate

commanding cilicer, the chief of the HEP.

Subject did not

know the namon of more than two of bis fellow officere at

the MIP.

In an effort to anever this question he cave a

mn - ILLISSTEV - that be bad not once mentioned uben under

similar prossure 1n April 1961; 1t 18 apparent that he invented

It on the spot.

Bubject continued to insiat that bo served in'

"Sowetak, Primorskiy Kray."

Subject was then shous a up,.

and found that the sane of the place were he had allegedly®

sorred was 1n fact Prisorst.

Subject said that he couldn't

understand by he bad remembered it as Sovetek, and said

that he had never been in the city of Bovetsk.

Subject was

also shown the Administrative-Territorial Divisions of the

UBBE, and conceded that there is no Primorskiy Kray in the

Soviet Union except the one in the Jar Bant.

Again, he had

no explanation for his error.

Oddly, after initially con-

coding his error, from time to time Subject continued to

may that be thought that be was probably right after all,

and that the villare of Sovetek was too mall to appear on

the map that he was shown.

d) In describing bis Initial arrival at the HIP?

Bubject said that he arrived 1n Kalingrad, then had to go:

Dy car from Inlingrad to Baltiys becalse there van no

SECRET

FYES ONLY

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

EYLS ONLY

railoay. to. Baltiyak.

He then went by ca" fron Baltiyok to

Primorak.

In reality tbere was and in a rail connection

Irom Kalingrad to Baltisak, which passes through. (Bubject

•= not. told this, bovever.)

Bubject admitted that. he did not do any operational

work at the MP, and said that was wby be vas dissatisfied

and wanted & transfer.

However, Subject could not give a

detailed or believable description of what bia

duties sere.

As be bad done so often in the past, be attempted to divert

the questioning by launching into what is evidently a pro-

pared lecture about the concept of atay-behind operations.

He was cut off.

1.

(HOTE:

In talking about bia service In Kaliningrad

Oblast, Subject has mentioned Primorah, Sovetsk, and Zelenogradek.

It 1B

Interesting that

towns of identical or closely giailar

names also exiat in Leningrad Oblast: Prinorsk, Sovetekty, and

Zelenogorsk.

Botb Zelenogradar and Zelenogorsk are resorte.

The Prinorsk and Sovietskly in Leningrad Oblast are both on

the. coast, about 10-12 kilometers fron oach other.

Bearing

1n mind that Subject has previously described working. 1n she

woods in Leningrad Oblast in 1915 under conditions that sound

very sinilar to forced labor, 1t 18 possible that there in

sone clue here as to hon Subject's legend was prepared. At

this stage, however; 1t 1a not posaible to draw any 11rm

conclusions and thi coincidence is simply noted for future.

reference.

5. In the course of the four days of interrogation to

inte, there have been a mmber of indications which tend to

confir previous inpressions that Subject may have spent

some time as a prisoner in a Soviet jall or prison camp.

have not been noted in the previous inter

rogation reports 1t may be convenient to surize them

bere:

On 38 July Subject made the intriguing ronnis,

"tyurennyy opyt otrabatyvalsya."

This was in anever to sy

question about hon be kept track of the days.

On 30 July, Subjec, voluntarily Isunched Into a

long and detailed explanation of bon he keeps track of the

days 1n his present circumatances.

A possible explanetion

for this unsolicited description in

that subject had reflected

on the inplications of his remilk on 38 July.

SECRET

FYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

EXES ONLY

c)

On 28 July, while I vas asking Subject about the

number

of bis

Party naberabip card (which he did not remamber)

Subject said, "I don't even remember my personal KGB number.".

I Immediately asked Subject when such personal serial numbers

had been instituted in the KGB, and he replied that be didn't

renabor, that no one carried them with them but kept them in

the safe, that they were intended for wartime purposes.

CONKIT: Personal serial numbors never exiated either.

in the army or in the

KGB, and to the best of our kwou

ledge they do not exist nou.

The only place in Soviet

society whore such numbors existed in in the prison

camps:

this vas one of the chief grievances and cou

plaints that

the prisoners made in the famour Vorkute

uprisings of 1953.

d) In provioua interrogations Subject has described

vorking in the forests cutside of Leningrad for two montha

In 1910.

The conditiona that he described sound such more

like forced Inbor than that of a military unit.

Although tattooing is certainly practised to some

ontent in the Soviet Navy, Komsomol and Party pressures

restrict this to a considerable degree.

The cumber and extent

of Subjoct's-tattoos in more characteriatic of young jailbirdo..

Subject's account of the handabooting episode

unrests one posaible way that be might have wound up 1n

Certainly this Incident could not have been taken as

igntly in vartine as he vould have us believe.

Subject's story about a 15 day dentence. in the

Lyubyanka because of tbe

7 incident suggeste

that this may have been inserted in his legend to cover alive

stening from long prison experience, and posaibly also to

1o love.

help hin in passing the polygraph.

b) Subject's earlier accounts about fighting at Tuapse,

running away from school, etc. also have several refersaces

to prison that may be significant.

le once referred to the

military unit in wbich he allegedly Joined in Baku as a "ponal.

battalion", he returned to the school "under guard," upon

arrival in loscor he vas "arrested..

SECRET

EYES ONLY

Ted

---

