# 104-10322-10092

## Page 1

104-10322-10092

CONFIDENTFIAR

secutive Registry

V79-6394/3

Washington, Q-C20505

OIC

79-0113/X

June 18, 1979

Mr. Edmund L. Henshaw, Jr.

Clerk

U.S. House of Representatives

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Henshaw:.

Forwarded herewith are comments concerning the final report

of the Select Committee on Assassinations, listing a series of

These comments

cite the section in question, the reasons for changing them, and

suggested ways for handling the matter.

I trust you will have no problem in accommodating these

suggestions.

Sincerely,

Maladen

Enclosure

Distribution:

Orig - Adse

1 - DDCI

1 - ER

1

- OLC/Subj

- OLC/Chrono

1

- OGC/Rininger

- OS/Sullivan

- CI Staff,

1

-

SE Div/Sumption/

-

LA Div/Sturbitts

1

= OP/Haudescheldt

1

. - DDS&T/Clark

1 - OLC/HSCA/Holmes

EXECUTIVE REGISTRY

FOLE # Spec dut F8

OLC/SDB/ksn

CONFIDENTIAL

ORIGINAL CL BY

O DECL E REVW ON _

Sus listi

EXT BYND & YRS BY

REASON

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

ATTACHMENT TO DDCI LETTER OF

18 June 1979

FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

Page 60 DII-PATS, Footnote 4. Use of the word "recruited" is .

inaccurate in the accepted praseology of intelligence. The word "recruited"

refers to controlled agents, which are very different from cooperative

private citizens who do not have a clandestine role. Use of the word in

this context could harm future participants, if the program were resumed.

Delete "recruited" and insert the word "contacted" in its place. (C)

Page 72 DII-PATS, Third paragraph. Second sentence should read

"According to an affidavit that McMillan filed with the committee, her

only employment with the Federal Government was a 30-day temporary

translator."

Delete remainder of sentence.

Reference to the Joint

Publications Research Service reveals a classified cover operation

in conjunction with other foreign governments. (C)

Page 75 DII-PATS, Fourth paragraph. Last sentence in paragraph

should read "de Mohrenschildt's CIA file contained several

reports

submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia."

Delete remainder of sentence. See 26 March 1979 letter to G. Robert

Blakey from S. D. Breckinridge. Inclusion of specific titles indicates

areas of pointed Agency foreign intelligence interests. (C)

Third paragraph. In the next to the last

sentence of the quotation, delete the remainder of the sentence following

the phrase "he furnished fragmentary intelligence..," which refers to

the attempt to obtain financial loans from the Agency and is of a confidential

nature and not relevant to the purpose of the investigation. Agency

confidential information on intelligence sources is protected as part

of the operational necessity of maintaining professional confidence in

the relationships. Revelation of this sort of personal infornation

could be injurious to the ability of the Agency in this respect. (C)

Page 5 DADE-PATS, Exhibit No. F-7*.

Delete "Ryan to Nosenko."

This reference describes the true name of a CIA operations officer

currently an active employee of the CIA. He is under cover and his

identity should be protected. (C)

CONFIDENTIAL:

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• B

CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX TO HEARINGS

VOLUME VI

of "former C empage. "(6the point the eers "at illega ver reen

The point here is that it has never been

made clear that the man known as Carswell was the same as a CIA employee;

there is reason to believe that he was not. (C)

Page 267, Figure IV, lower right photograph. A photograph of

a tormer employee, associated in. the report with a man known as Danie

Carswell, should be deleted.

The photograph was provided the Committee

for identification purposes only and is not to be used. The employee

in question was involved in many sensitive overseas operations.. To

avoid exposing his identity in this manner and thereby certain clandestine

operations, as well as protecting his personal safety, the Agency

photograph

must be deleted. Beyond this, the man currently owns a

private business with a large clientele and this exposure could also be

harmful to his business. (C)

VOLUME X

Page 17. Footnote (58).. Change "Ross Crozier" to "Ron Cross."

Agency employee and this was simply an error in ommission in the

process of reviewing and printing the draft report. (C)

shelved when

Page 126 • derogatory' tand

Paragraph (484). Delete sentence "The scheme was

about Banister was discovered."

reflects methodology and standards used in the selection and rejection

of individuals for operational purposes.

As a general practice in

maintaining the viability of its relationships with operational assets

it is an important procedure to protect the personal confidential

information concerning individuals. It is noted that we think that

Footnote (64) is misplaced. (C)

Page 156, Paragraphs (39) and (40). The presentation makes

it perfectly clear, to anyone who refers to the newspaper story,

who "the Cuban official" was. That man's identity must be protected

eras identity.

for his own personal safety. Although the basic operation has been

described in general terms the identity of the man in question has

never been revealed publicly. It is suggested that the following.

general language be used:

"The writers of the IF report were concerned with

these assertions because aspects of the newspaper story

bef the

were similar in some respects to certain elements

involved in Phase I of the CIA operations.

The possibility

of some relationship with the ClA operation attracted the

attention of the CIA.

(C)

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

VOLUME XII

Page 56. Paragraph (33). Delete sentence "In a fitness report

for...and searches for and develops new sources."

See 26 March 1979

letter to G. Robert Blakey from S. D. Breckinridge, in which it was

noted that the fitness report is a classified document and suggest

that the duties of the employee in question be described in general

terms to the effect that "his duties in Dallas were contacting individuals

in the area who had information on foreign subjects." (C)

Page 56. Paragraph (36). Sentence should read "De Mohrenschildt's

CIA file contained several reports submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the

CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia."

See the comment concerning the same subject regarding page 55 Del-PATS,

Fourth paragraph. (C)

Page 58. Paragraph (44). Delete "Jerry G. Brown" whose

name

appears twice. Delete "Gale Allen, a Department of Defense." Allen

appears three times.

Both individuals are currently employed by

GIA. (C)

currently al Agary rapt oyee.

Page 61. Paragraph (65). Delete "Robert Gottschling," who is ?

Page 62.

read

Paragraph (73). Second to the last sentence should

"Dryer

said one of those contacts was a person who worked for

French intelligence and cooperated with the CIA. (189)" Delete last

sentence. The operational relationship remains classified.

. (c)

There are a considerable number of blank pages and missing pages in

the materials forwarded to us. We are unable to certify as to the

content of those pages.

It is presumed that this material will be

provided for review prior to publication. (U)

CONFIDENTIAL

---

