# 104-10013-10361

## Page 1

104-10013-10361

UNCEASSIFIED ON

SUBJECT (Optional

FROM:

INTERNAL SECRET

&SEXONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD' SHEET

CO IDENTIAL

"SECRET

EXTENSION

TO: (Officer designation, room number,

building)

SCOTT

While

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

& OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE:

11 DeaL

COMMENTS

show.ifrom:

whom

ach comment.)

UNE SEALENTER

8.

Shaws

Goodpastur

Keenan

Carol

D'anto a Co. Ponl

me o

17/64

ENOXTIDU

10.

.12

eude 23100%

61.0 USEDONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

JEKNALY

USON SERENASS FLED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico CIty

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

Chiel WilD

RYBAT/

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PiP

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM-

PLISHED

We would like to take time out in our Investigation of the President's

assassination to appraise the role of the Mexico City Station in the whole affair.

Since the early afternoon of 22 November 1963, Mexico City has been the only

major overseas reporter in the case. While this 1s partly dictated by the

facts of Lee OStArd's life, we have not overlooked the really outstanding per-

formance of Mexico City's najor assets and the speed, precision, and perception

with which the date was forwarded. Here it was relayed within minutes to the

White House, ODACID, and ODENYY.

Your bIllOY data, the statements of Silvia DURAN, and your analyses

were major factors in the quick clarification of the case, blanking out the really

ominous spectre of foreign backing:

We regret that we have been able to send you so l1ttle Information 1n

return, but we bave not been given much yet. We do know that Lee OSWALD denied

le had ever been to Mexico except for a jump to Tla Juana. We have quickl

creened the FBI report on the whole case but we do not yet have a copy fo:

retention.

It does not compromise your sources. Basically, what the New York

Times has printed about the report is all true.

3.

We have meanwhile been flooded with fabrications, of which the ALVARADO

story was the most troublesone. They are still coming In.

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:

0&1 - COS, Mexico City

*96-716

§CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TYPED

13 Dec 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW - 12193

HEADQUARTERS FLE NUMBER

7202-287248

DATE DISPATCHED

kie:

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ICLABSIICATION

SECRE

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER.

HMMN -12193

You have had good support from your liaison, but as usual the really

outstanding features were Mexico Station's Lamous generalshiy and the sk111 and

devotion of its personnel. Please convey our admiration to all who participated,

down to the last technician, translator, and monitor. We know that the work

your Station did during the President's 1962 vislt made you feel this tragedy

with particular keenness, as did we.

OLIVER GO

FORM

3.80

50c

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CL/ 88:FICATION

SECRET

CONTINUES

PAGE NO

2

---

