# 104-10519-10070

## Page 1

104-10519-10070

CLASSINTO MESSAGE

¿FASCO"

12%

23 NOV 6U

DIRECTOR

/-AVANA

NOV 23 6j02z 60

Wt1 9 (MR PHILLIPS WN DIY NOTIFIES 0015, 23 NOV)

DEi, 8/061, DO/P, COP, ADER/A, S/C 2.

those in

OPIM DIR INFO OPIM MASH CITE DAVA 6989

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

iN 46546

JNNET

REF A MASH 1701, PARA a (IN 44034) :

B MASH 1725, PARA & (IN: 44543)

MASH 1770 CIN 45795) 0019

MEMBER MDC DIRECTORATE HERE, CONTACTED STA.

22 MOV

"RELATED FOLLS

A.

HE AND

HAD BEEN WORKING PAST

THREE NIGHTS

AT HOME OF

ON. ,

"OPERATION UNITYO, OBJECTIVE OF OPS IS CREATE DRAMATIC SHOW

HERE WHICH WILL DEMONSTRATE THAT MANOLO RAY IS WRONG WHEN HE

TELLING CONTACTS IN U.SO THAT HIS GROUP ONLY ONE CAPABLE OF ACTION

AND WHICH VILL CREATE INCIDENT HERE DEMANDING COMBINED FOLLOW

THROUCH BY MAR, AUTENTICOS, MDC, MAR AND OTHERS DUE THEY WILL HAVE

NO OTHER CHOICS TUAN FIGHT EOR SURVIVAL.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

ELAi

1.54:

HAN 4j)

3. OPS INVOLVES

TAND SIX EMPLOICES CUBAN

ELECTRIC COMPANY PROCEEDING TO MAIN CONTROL CENTEN CUBAN ELECT-

TRIC COMPANY AT TALLAPIEDRA AND BLOWING IT UP WITH PLASTIC

DEMOLITIONS WHICH THEY HAVE OBTAINED FROM AMPAN-S RESULTS WILL

BE, BLACK OUT OF HAVANA AND SANTA CLARA FOR THREE TO SIX MONTHS&

DEMOLITION WIL BE TIMED TOR 2589 HRS 23, 24 OR 2S NOTE IMMEDI

IATELY FOLL DEMOLITION APPAN-S WILL MEET WITH SABOTAGE REPS -

MRR, MDC, AND AUTENTICOS AND DISTRIBUTE 200 HUNDRED BOMBS WHICH

ARE ON HAND AND WILL BE USED THROUGHOUT HAVANA WITH PRINCIPAL

TARGETS HAVANA PORT AREA AND PSP OFFICES•

WILL ATTEMPT

TO REACH ALMENDARES RIVER WHERE 2O FT BOAT WILL BE WAITING AND

WILL HEAD DUE NORTH FOR KEY WEST.

IS COOPERATING IN OPS AND WILL ESCORT MESTEE TO AIRPORT HERE

AND ACCOMPANY MIM TO MIAMI ON EVE OF THE OPS, USING

POUCH AND GOOD OFFICES

PLAINS KAS RECD ASSURANCES FROM

ROMULO BETANCOURT THAT. HE WILL SUPPORT ANTI-CASTRA REVOLUTION

ONCE

STASTER

REPROOUETION EN UTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFIGE IS PROMIBITED

...

---

## Page 3

LASSIFIES 8.9546

SECREE

MATA OX

14l6

→ REQUESTED VISA ASSAT

TAND HER MOTHER

AID SAID OPS CONTINGENT UPON HIS GUARANTEEING

THAT BOAT

HE FLECING IN WOULD BE MET. ARET? TOLD

THAT IT IMPOSSIELE

GUARANTEE BOAT WOULD BE MET AND EFFORT WOULD BE MADE LOOK INTO

VISA ASSIST. I

AWARE OF

PAST COOPERATION WITH

COMMIES BUT TRUSTS FER THOROUGHLY, SAYING THAT SHE HAS BEEN

MOST HELPFUL TO MOC EROM HER CURRENT POSITION IN MIN OF FOREIGN

RELATIONG. ARETZ NOTE THAT PLAN APPEARED POORLY COORDINATE

ASSURE TOELON VA TO EVENT IF IT DOES TAKE PLACE AND IT MAY

PRECIPITATE COMPLETE DESTRUCTION OPPOSITION BY A DESPERATE CASTRO.

STATED PLAN HAD NOT BEEN COORDINATED TAD MIAMI AND

**

AMPALKES INTINTIONALLY LETT OUT BUT OES CULT CORINATED HERE

-AMONG ERD SABOTAGE CHIEFS BY AMPAN-SO

3o

BRAZ EMB SEC LACOS ON 22 NOV TOLD EMB POL OFTICER WAYNE

SMITH THAT MANOLO RAY GROUP. PLANNING BLOU UP MAIN POWER PLANT OF

CUBAN ELECTRIC AT 2500 HRS 22 NOV. SAID HE HAD PERSONALLY TALKED

WITH THE 6 MEN (NOT IDENTIFIED) WHO WERE TO CARRY OUT THE

SABOTAGE• ON FIRST VISIT TO SMITH LAGOS INDICATED THAT RAY

GROUP NAD EXPECTED RECEIVE CARGO OF EXPLOSIVES ON NICHT 21 NOV

BUT BOAT DID NOT ARRIVE• INTIMATED THIS MIGHT CAUSE POSTPONEMENT

FOR FEW DAYS. OU LATER VISIT TO SMITH LAGOS SAID POVER PLANT

ALREADY MINED AND ACTION WOULD TAÑE PLACE ON 22 NOV AS SCHEDULED.

ALTHOUCH

DECRIBES THIS AS AN OP TO SHOW UPE MANOLO RAY

GROUP. INFO

AT. HAND AND REFS VOULD INDICATE THIS IS A COORDINATED

EFFORT OF MANY GROUPS INCLUDINgARP.

RESROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUIRE OFFINE I5 PRCHIBITED

---

## Page 4

CLA:

1ID MSA

SEGAEL

NivA 6039

46, 46 PAS

STA AWAXE THAT AMPUNG-I HAD APPOINTED AMPAN-S AS CHIFF

ACTION AND SAB FOR MAVANA AREA AND PAD PROVIDED HIM

PLASTIC OBTAINED TROM LAS VILLAS AND MULATA OPS. MS RECD FROM

APAN-: AFTERNOON 22 NOV CONFIRMS PLAN ELON UP POWER PLANT

TSAYSFÖRMERS, CAS STAS, AND TRUCKS, ETC., ON NIGHT 22 OR 23 NOV.

• DO OF MESSACE

C/S COMMENT:" Ray'o request for one hundred and lilty lbe of c-3 to be uned da

a saborago effort la Havana.

• MASH roported that the targeta for the effort were the electric

sluni and one of the TV stations in Havans

MASH slated that the operation was poatponed 48 hours because

of boat repaire.

REPPOOLCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING'OFFIGE IS PROHIBITED

---

