# 104-10186-10070

## Page 1

104-10186-10070

HNFORMATIONFREPORT

MINFORMATIONPREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SUBECT "Polencho". (an alias)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DIESEN

REPORT NO.

Cs C1-316/00629-65

10 February 1965

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. DeCembeR 1965

FIED REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOUNCI ORAD

DIGS ANE DEFINIT,VE APPRISA DE CONTENT A TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer Who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untll April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of & series containing personality

information provided by the source and tacludes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Source knew "Pelencho," whose true name he was unable

to recall, as a member of the Departamento de Seguridad del

Estado (Department of State Security - DSE).

He was a good

friend of Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo (see CSCI-316/01239-64,

12 October 1964)•

s1x incies

"Pelencho" was born between

1935 and 1940, 1s five feet

tall, weighs 135 pounds, and has a slim build. I

Hendquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no Information on "pelencho."

5

4

5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2

3

1

STATE

I DIA

ARAY

I NADY

1N5A

REP

CINCLANT CINCSO #

I&YS

TEXX

TocH

TFBI 2

¡Note: field distribution Indicated by "#".)

CINFORMATION REPORT SINEORMATIONARERORT

WI/SA/EO5:1

_NE/ 5/R

UFGA 19020(9Dec64) -

HE(MADR

2 CU/REA

NO PROJECT (ANNUG 1)

MH SALR

70%

CSCI-316/00629-65

5

BIDLAX

WH/WATE

TOrALS NI/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI A, RID 1

61913008 1

19-51

---

