# 104-10110-10012

## Page 1

104-10110-10012

TISECRET

17 July 1961

SUBJECT

BARKER,, Bernard I.

(201-251689)

1.

The Subfoot, an operational asset of both Havane stetion

and JA'S, la currently in the Washington, D.C, area at the.

suggestion of it. Howard lift, in an effort to resalve his elti

senship status. He as loterviewed by a representative of

wH/W/SO on 15 Jily 1961 at the Shorehan Hotel to develop all

/ avatlable background information concerning is lons of otison

ship and previora steps taken to restore ite

20 BARKER was bern 17 Marah 1917 at Havana, Cub of a

mtve born U3. Lather and a Obban nother. Ala birdi was recerde

at the U.S. Embanay and ho was recognised as having acquired ViS

altisenhip by birth through the eltisenship of his father. Be.

traveled, not an & Us, passport, but on an identity card procla

hita U-9. edtisenship.

During World Har It, he entered the U les

ray In Corpo, was shot dom in bio 12th maston over Germany

nd was a priaoner of ir for 16 nonth

i He was handi

bly soprante

3o In 1950, along with deveral Cuban born, UoS. eltisens whi

vere war veterans, he entered the Caban police force, where hin

bilingual abtlities soon brought him advancemant. He rat, at this

time, in controt vith Me. SPRARS, the FBI representative at the

American Imbassy In Havara, and also worked closely with the

Treasury representatite in breaking up to mareotics rings plying

betrean Florida and Cuba. He served as escort for Mra. TRUMAN and

Hargaret on thelr vait to Cuba, for which he received a White

House comendation ®

40 In BARKER's opinton, he became the object of personal

spite on the part of an unnaned Embassy staff member, who took

action to revoko his otisenship status based on his membership In

the Caban police. In an effort to rectify his plight, Mr. SPEARS,

the Embassy FBI representative, sent him to Dr. Mario L420, &

loading Havana attorney, to prepare the case for a plea to regain

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

I SECRET

atizenship. According to BARKER'S recallection, thin occured

In 1953. DI. LAZO compiled a formidablo Illo on the Subjeet

and was 1n countestion u1th a Washdagton, Dole lazal fire,:

wodch BARKER dimly recalla as that of Bchard Bennett WILLIANS,

uho was to handle the case locally. A privato b1ll vas litra

duced in the 83rd Congress by Congressan WILLIANS of New Jersey

to restore the sabjeet a eitizenship, but Baris does not inou

why no action was taker on the bill.. At the time, he was in

financial diffleulties and took a job as a tractor driver out.

aide flavana for about 8 nonths, in wbich perlod he had no contact:

wlth DT. LAZO, who, aa BAKER bellever, interpreted hda failure

to appear In the office as a lack of intoreat in pressing the cau

to a mocessial conclusion.

The Subjest podated out that Dr. Marlo LAZO astered the

Use about a month ago and da now in the latington arusy he

believes

1s in contäct vith him. Ba knows De T430 14

localite

Ington on one occasion, and Bennet. HILLIAlS ias the nime he

recalledo. lo believed the lawyes ina inrolired la the Senator

MoCarthry hearings.

7. Based on the above liforntion, the followins rocomend

ationa are sace:

Mr.

e requested to ascartals from Dr

arto LAZO the name of the Washington In firm which handled

Subject's case In 1953, and the resen for the tatlure of the

specdal bille

{ SECRETI

---

## Page 3

14-00000

I SECRET

Sao go fie oe Ga reno Cood o he ti oane ate

opo ar logtlite ot dm te egelai, o selgete a tig. eteesks

ЗОКРІЇ

SECRET

---

