# 104-10427-10030

## Page 1

1104-10427-10030

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE ONLY

2 August 1983

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Emilio Jaksetic

Office of General Counsel

FROM:

Gerald L. Liebenau

C/DO/IMS/FPLG

SUBJECT:

Estimate for Processing Sequestered

Kennedy Documents

1. At our meeting on 1 August, you reguested an estimate for

processing approximately 200,000 pages of documents sequestered by

-he House Assassination Committee at the conclusion of its

investigation of the Kennedy

assassination.

At this point, with no

certain knowledge of the nature of the documents, our best

estimate

is five years.

2.

We have arrived at that estimate by making

rough

comparison with the Missing in Action (MIA) case, which contained

66,382 documents.

That case required approximately two years for

ore-processing, i.e. to index all documents, remove duplicates,

refer non-Agency documents, remove classified marginal information

and attach addoc sheets to

each document.

That procedure reguired

approximately 17 part-time clerks and analysts.

It is expected that

the MIA case will require an excess of three years for the

completion of the substantive review.

This will bring the total

processing time of the MIA case to five years.

The substantive

review requires a team of three part-time analysts assisted by

several clerical processors.

3.

Upon receipt of your memorandum authorizing the processing

of the sequestered documents, we plan to take the following

action:

Conduct a

survey in Warrenton of the sequestered

documents in order to determine how the material was stored

and in

what order procescing can

b.

take place.

Convert the 75 rolls of

film into paper copy.

(Note: We have been given an estimate that this process

would require about 80 man-hours at a total cost of $6,800).

C.

Index all documents by document number, date, and title.

d. Organize the case according to the agreement reached by

your office with the reguester.

e. Begin the substantive processing.

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE

ONLY

1 August 1983

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Sequestered

Kennedy Assassination Recurds

On 1 August, OGC reguested a meeting to discuss with us the

processing of approximately 200,000 pages of documents which had

sequestered by the House Assassination Committee in its

investigation of the Kennedy assassination.

The meeting was

attended for OGC by Launie Ziebel and Emilio Jaksetic.

Russ Holmes,

Lou dube and I represented the

CIA's efforts to have those

documents declared Congressional

records,

and therefore outside the

scope of the FOIA, failed when Justice had refused to appeal an

earlier court decision declaring these documents to be searchable

under the Mark Allen FOIA request.

For background, the seguestered holdings consist of 75 rolls

of microfilm, each roll

containing 2,400 frames, or a total of

180,000 pages.

In addition, there are 34

cartons (1 square foot

size) containing paper copies of documents.

The sequestered

documents

contain probably

all the material already processed in the

Oswald case and in the Garrison investigation.

large number of documents have never been processed.

documents originated from requests by the Committee for name checks

of cuban and other nationals whose names night have come up in their

own investigation, or in other studies. All this material currently

is stored in the Warrenton'archives.

On 4 August, OGC is scheduled to meet at Justice with the

attorney for Mark Allen, Lasar to discuss the disposition

material.

In this connection, the following points will be raised

by OGC in hopes of reducing the total number of documents that will

have to be processed:

We shall attempt to have all non-cIA documents deleted

from this case.

to about

one half of the Oswald

documents which were coordinated with us by

the FBI.

Government agencie's documents would be available to the reguester

outside CIA, they may

agree to that stipulation.

Delete all documents that already have been processed

and to a large extent released in other Kennedy litigations,

particularly those being represented by Fensterwald.

This would

amount to about 2,000 documents which were treated in the Oswald

(1650 documents) and Garrison case (362 documents).

The documents that originated with the Comnittee,

primarily the notes and memos

of staff members, would be regarded

outside the FOIA

and not be treated.

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 3

13-00000

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE ONLY

1 August 1983

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Sequestered Kennedy Assassination Records

1. On 1 August; OGC requested a meeting to discuss with us the

processing

of approximately 200,000 pages of

documents which had

been sequestered by the House Assassination Committee in its

investigation of the Kennedy assassination.

The meeting was

Launie Ziebel and Emilio Jaksetic.

Russ Holmes,

Lou dube and I represented

CIA's efforts to have those

documents declared Congressional records, and therefore outside the

scope of the FOIA, failed when Justice had refused to appeal an

earlier court decision declaring these documents to be searchable

under the Mark Allen FOIA request.

For background, the sequestered holdings consist of 75 rolls

of microfilm, each roll containing 2,400 frames, or a total of

180,000 pages.

In addition, there are 34 cartons (1 square foot

size) containing paper copies of documents:

The sequestered

documents contain probably

all the material already processed in the

the Garrison investigation.

However, a very

large number of documents have never been processed.

documents originated from requests by the Committee for name checks

of cuban and other nationals whose names might have come up in their

own investigation, or in other studies. All this material currently

is stored in the

archives.

On 4 August,

OGC is scheduled to meet at Justice with the

attorney for Mark Allen, Lasar to discuss the disposition of this

material. In this connection, the following points will be raised

by OGC in hopes of reducing the total number of documents that will

have to be processed:

We shall attempt to have all non-CIA documents deleted

from this

This may

amount to about one half of the Oswald

documents which were coordinated with us by the FBI.

Government agencie's documents would be available to the requester

outside CIA, they may agree to that stipulation.

Delete all documents that already have been processed

and to a large extent released in other Kennedy litigations,

particularly those being represented by Fensterwald.

amount to about 2,000 documents which

were treated in the Oswald

(1650 documents) and Garrison case (362 documents).

The documents that originated with the comnittee.

primarily the notes and memos of staff minbers, would be regarded

outside the FOIA and not be treated.

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

13-00000

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE ONLY

d. The files of CIA employees and former employecs will be

suggested for deletion from the case.

such documents would not be

released under the FOIA in any case.

OGC will attempt to have deleted from the case all

records pertaining to U.s.

persons.

The argument here is that the

Agency is responsible only for collecting

information abroad and

also that any information on U.S. persons would be searchable by the

4.

We have

been asked to provide OGC for the meeting on 4

August some estimate of the time required to process this

material.

For this purpose we were asked to assume that all

documents in this

case would

be processed.

We explained

nearly approaches the

that the only case

that

seguestered documents is the MIA case.

We are

now

collecting the information on the MIA case to provide some

estimate of time.

The MIA case has taken us thus

far about five

years and we expect to take one more year to complete it.

5.

We have suggested to OGC that in the context of their

discussion of this case

at Justice, they take some of the following

points into consideration:

a .

Although a large number of documents are involved in

the sequestered material, no new information regarding the Kennedy

assassination can be expected.

b.

The tax payer

should not be required to spend an

inordinate

end other

amount of additional money

on this project in light of

the cost of past investigations into the Assassination by Congress

and other investigating committees.

To the best of our knowledge, only

equested this material; it hardly can be regarded person has

overwhelminc

interest to the public.

d. Therefore, we should not waive fees for duplicating

costs, and explore ways of charging for converting the film into

hard paper copies.

We have requested OGC to provide us

with a memorandum

advising us that the sequestered material can be opened and

processed.

111.4

Gerald L. Liebenau

C/ IMS/FPLG

ADMIN-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

