# 104-10056-10128

## Page 1

104-10056-10128

DISSÉM EY

_PEE

40

PERION/UNIT NOTIFISO

- IRIAL" COPIES"

•SECRET

11E2,

IMPOST

CL: ey: 006687

DVANCE COP

ISSUED/SIOTTEr

ICTION UNI

LA 10

ACTION#

ey

AT

FILE, VR, ESPEESTSSBEREERE IP/DMS, IID, PCS/INT ,

CI Ha CA 4a SIMa SIA/IC- REFR 5.

7 208156

E14697

PAGE B1

TOR: 2820502 SEP 77

SECRET 2BIOGSZ SEP 77 INTEL

HJK-7=3

CITE

2295₽

TO: DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL INTEL REAM

SUFDATA: EPWAHDO FOR HOS REVIEMO PROJECT SLEEPER, SLHORIZONE

FROM FERSONAL KADWLEDGE, NOT PASSED LILISON. NOT

FOR PASSAGE TO LIAISON, THIS REFORT SHOULD NOT RET

NOT EE FIESEO TO GNGRAPH. O.D. OBJ N--, 1N3EX:

BROMA, MUNROE, FILE: 103EZ, 20I-DETERSE. CL BY

C58245, HiJK-733.

FILED:

201945=

AGENCY MESSAGE

I N 416072

22958

F 7

60093

1111807

...

ta nou san.....

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CIA INTERIAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORALATION CABLE

DATE 28 "SEPTEMBER 1577

IN

476072

PAGE 1 0F4 PAGES

•WARNING NOTICE

*SENSITTVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

•-The foliowing repori, tronsmited from o ClA field station, requires review within the Directorate of Operations before being used

in any-other document.or publication.or-released outside the-Agency.-fendingresults.of this review. a copy is provided for your

advance information.

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO: SDO

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 00767

FEPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLI ENCE

SOURCES AND METHDDS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT PELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED EY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY:: CUB'/JAMAIC

DO !:

SEPTEMBER-DCTGEER 1977

SUBJECT: CLOSES MEETING OF MEMEERS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY

DF QUER AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON ON

2- SEPTEMSER 1977.

400:

JAMAICH, KINGSTON IZE EFTEMEER 1977 REPORT NO. HUK-735

SOURCE: A GUSAN DEFICIAL VISITING LMICH, HE WAS PRESENT

AT THE MEETING DESCRIBED BELON, ALTHOUGH IT IS

BELIEVED THAT HE AOCURATELY REPORTS KHAT HE HAS

SEEN TOLD, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

=.

ON Z4 SEPTENGER 197T, ENRIQUEONTERE

LEECHNO, MINISTER-COUNSELLOR OF THE CUBEN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON,

LEDRESSED THE REGULAF MONTHLY MEETINE OF THE MENDERS OF THE

---

## Page 3

13-0006

EDITIONS

IN 416072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(classitication)

...FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

RAMON PE Z FERRD, WHU RETURNED TO CUBA ON VACATION ON

21 SEFTEMBER, THE MEETING TOOK PLACE AT THE EMBASSY:

2, MONTERO SAID THAT INTERNAL DIVISIONS WITHIN THE

RULING PEOPLE'S NATIONAL PARTY (PNPI OF JAMAICA HAD RESULTED

IN THE RESIGNATION OF D. K. DUNCAN AS PNE GENERAL

SECRETARY AND MINISTER OF MOBILIZATION. MONTERO SAID THAT

THE AFPOINTMENT OF RALPHER OWN AS THE NEW ONE GENERAL

SECRETARY HAD BEEN GENERALY WELL-RECEIVED WITHIN THE PNE.

MONTERO DESCRIBED BRDWN AS & MATURED EXPERIENGED PARTY.

OFFICIAL WHO WOULD BE DELE TO SERVE AS A "MODERATOR" BETLEEN

THE "RIGHTISTS," "MODERATES" AND "LEFTISTS" OF THE PNE.

3. MONTEFO COMPLAINES THAT THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD

EXPLOITED BROWN'S RECENT TRIE TO GUSA FOR ITS "CAMPAIGN OF

CONFUSION", IN FAILING TO REFOOT THE PURPOSE OF THE TRIF,

THE PRESS. IMPLIED THAI THERE WERE UNKNOWN, SINISTER

MOTIVES BEHIND IT.

MONTERO SATE THAT BROWN HAD GONE TO CUBA

MERELY IN DROER TO ATTEND THE FIRST CONGRESS OF THE CUBAN

COMMITTEES FOR THE DEFENSE DE THE REVOLUTION CEDRI, TO EE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

IN 43:072

TDFIP.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

-SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

classification!

•Kids 10055s

(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO THE PRESS, BROWN LEFT JAMAICA

ON 23 SEPTEMBER FOR A THIBEE DAY VISIT TO CUBA, THE PURFOSE

OF WHICH WAS NOT INDICATED. ON THE NICHT OF Z7 SEPTEMBER,

IT WAS REPORTED ON JAMAI

DAN TELEVISION THAT BROWN HAD MADE

A STATEMENT CONCERNING HIS TRIP FOLLOWING HIS RETURN THAT

DAY TO JAMAICA, HE SAID HE HAD GONE TO CUBA SOLELY IN

ORDER TO ATTEND THE COR CONGRESS, AND HE CRITICIZED THE

DISTORTED MANNER IN MICH THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD REPORTED

ON HIS TRIP!

4, MONTERO ERIEFLY ADDED THAT DR, TREVOR MUNROE,

LELDER OF THE WORKERS! LIBERATION LEAGUE PULLD, TRAVELED TO

CUBA FROM JAMAICA ON ZI SEPTEMBER HE DID NOT INDICATE TRE

PURPOSE OF MUNROEIS VISIT TO CUEL, FINALLY, MONTERO SAID IT

WAS QUITE FROBABLE THAT BELARMING CAS TILLA MAS, CUBAN

VICE MINISTER OF CULTURES WOULD VISIT JAMAICA DURING

THE SECOND HALF OF OCTOGER.

5, MONTERO CALLED ON ALL POO MEMBERS TO BE ALERT FOR

ANY COUNTEF-REVOLUTI DNARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES AND

TO MAINTAIN THE MIGREET STANDARDS OF SEGURITYA HE SAIE

1 euteit.:

---

## Page 5

13-00000

IN 416072

TDFIP.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE U OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

"FURTHER "DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(ciesritication.)

OF PERU. HE ALSO SAID THLT CUBAN EXILES SUCH

AS FNU-D 1.AZ

• LAN AND OTHERS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, MONTERO DID NOT ELABORATE.

6, FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT KINGSTON CAMBASSIDOR ONLYS..

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE, TO FORETON

NATIONALS--NOT RELE:SABLE TO CONTRACTORS. OR CONTRICTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR, GLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING

OFFICER.

XEDS-Z.

* Major Pedro DIAZ Lanz, former head of

the Cuban Air Force (preceded Major Juan

ALMEIDA).

Defected.

00-B 3/169,982, 28

October 1960

---

