# 104-10192-10199

## Page 1

104-10192-10199

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

MDC

#OUTING

EXT

DATE :

3977

1593

2961

NO, COP, MA 5, 0C: 6, S/C 2

OPLI HAVE

TO PANDE

for

INO REM BOUTINE

CITE DIR

656P 31 27

Dentitos.

BOUTINE

C:93551

10133

Sue

SEDTO 3. L. ALVAREZ PIO PASSPORT NO, 23432 ARRIVED FROM HAVANA O6I

ZAA FLI LIONT 5 SEPT. YAS MESSAGE FOR HITCH FROM AMBLESS I.

CEAST SOS A3 PER 3OC. TODAY DEBRIZE AND MARE ARRANGENIINES TO

LiSOR ALYARE. ADVISE®

2. SUS RESILED SH FROM A-I AS FOLLOWS: "WE RECEIVED MONÉY.

II IS ECT SCISI. 15T SEPT PEDRO J, L. ALVAREZ, UNCLE NATIONAI.

FIX *:ANIL JEPLY AND RECEPTIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS WILL.

DIRTIZA:ISI. SOU CAL CONTACT EIM THROUGH THE PERSON WE PAVE

ITAI. (TIDITY INS A 3.D. "HIS RETURN WHEN MISSION

CC: 372: 12225. "AGO FORENO MELO IS ASSISTANT NATIONAL.

COOLICE! C= :DO AE 21E3SIT TIS THAT IS TO SAY HE WILL BE THE

CE 170 HILL. 112 I: CEASE LITH YOU IN TER EVENT I DISAPPEAR.

VISA WITAS PAUST HIS :OT ARRIVED."

COOCOINAIING OVIE

ARIATONE ODICHO

DEDICAB

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

OROT

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-ET

ROUTING

DATE •

1O

f#OMr

CONn

NO •

10

DIRECTOR

PAGE 2

DELEINEO

BOUTIN!

OUT 93651

10158

3. MAKE ARRANGEMNTS WITH A-J TO PASS RS-6 RADIO COMPLETE WITH

PADS, SIGPLAN AND CRYSTALS TO A-I IN SAME MANNER MONTY WAS PASSED.

A-3 HAS ALREADY CHECKED AND INPORAID "HITCH" THIS COULD BE DONE.

4. RIMM AUTHORIZED PROVIDE RADIO EQUIPMENT AS REQUESTED.

(IND OF MESSAGE)

661714171

o/c

(be phone)

03

03

ICK...

C. KINGS

• C/wED

l. I. DAVIS

C/WH/4

COOTDINATINO ONE

S-E-C-R-L-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

2/708

---

