# 104-10121-10210

## Page 1

104-10121-10210]

? 6 OCT 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreiga Resources Division

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

: Mto Donald J. Celesa.

FR Support Stala

OS# 39 418

07

(A)

1.

Reference is made to your memorandum dated 19 Octo

ber 1972

requesting issuance of a CIA Identification Card

in the above alias to enable Subject to perform domestic operational

duties.

The above alias must be properly recorded in Office of

Personnel records to insure intelligent responses to inquiries re-

garding the Subject. You are requested therefore to complete and

process Form 642, "Personnel Emergency and Locator Record. "

3. Please return the Identification Card to the OS/Identifica

tion Section, Room 1-E-0008, when it is no lunger needed.

4.

By copy of this memorandum the components listed below

are requested to provide backstopping as appropriate.

5. Please refer any questions concerning backstopping ar

rangements to the Chief, Operational Support Division/Special

Activities Branch on extension 3434 or 2966.

MILLS - jan

26 OCTOBER 1972

JDS/IOS

ADDS/TOS

SA-DD/IOS

C/ID

DC/ID

C/ID/

C/OSD

DC/OSD

C/OSB

C/SAB.

C/CI-CE

C/AAS

A&:TS

Files

Arthur C. Sheridan

Deputy Director of Security (IOS)

Domestic Contact Service

OP/Transaction and Records Branch

WARMING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIZENCE SOURCES

AND METHOOS INVOLVED

'Ird

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIF:ED BY -

0436 16

EXEMPT FROX GENTIAL DECLASSIFICATIO

SCHECULE OF E. O. 11.52, EXEMPTION CATACOAT:

¿ 5a(D), 62D 151 or (i9 feirile one or sore;

HUTC.

TICALLY LELLADOLILU UR

Approval of DC)

---

