# 104-10101-10126

## Page 1

104-10101-10126

!**:

1: .

JANE SCHNELL

• NCI

1364

A. DEC

Litaniote

1: : B00& SERBACR AS RELOU

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

-f.

SFCPET

180?

ROUTING

15

4DE063 • 9 462

8. i:

io inst

cos

ROUTIXE

2RLN LOND

SONI

BAGH

ALLA AEDE SERT MADR ANKA ALGI BONN PARI

TEAR LISS COPE NASO BEIR

LEOPAKXI FROE NEID

\DAMA RABA JOBI HAGU VIEN KAHI TPLI SAGO FRID ATHE JIDD

INIS CYRU TI CABR OSTO CAIR MOGA RACY CAVA ROME PRAN

86711

*FAR BAST - APRICA BEIF

iNURO NN SLANTS, ANNAIAIR LAPO RELSABINIS TO LIAISON.)

1. IRAQ: //SHARP COMPETITION FOR POURE IS HAFERING THI N

IRAQI NEGINE'S ATTENPTS TO ESTABLISH ITSILE FINLY. 11

1/ANTI-BRATHIST ARMY OFFICERS ARE STILI UNATTE OVER TIE BOLE

THAT BAATHISTE PLAY IN THE REGIME. A NON-BAATHIST TACTION IN THI

COVIRMINTI IS PREBBING FOR REDUCTION OF BAATHIST XHUZURICE AND POR

TIE ARKIET AD TRIAL OS LADIRS OF THE EXTRENIST BAATE FACTION. !!

//PIORARLI A8 A REBULT OF THIS PERSBURE, BAATHISTE ANE BRINI

ILIMXHATID PHON KEY POSITION IN TEI INTELIGSICE AND SCURITY

SERVICES, A NEU ARNY DIPUTY CHIEY OY STAFZ MAS BABA APPOINITO, AND

A MUNGER OF ARTY OFFICERO RETIRAD. iI

.AN AIY BRICALE CORSIDERED INTIL TE SON ABIT HAB HEN BRODGUY

TO JUCIAD TO COUNTER TIS ITFLUENCE OT TIB BAATAIST-ID AUI DIVIELLON,

::::15.05

2E:98:195 28590ERS

SECRET

Ger idroste atagia.

REPRODUCTION E

'*'MA TRE RSUNG DEFICE IS PROHIBITED

ERTACATiMO

Capo Ma

15953

---

## Page 2

06 &

UNIT &

DATI

•aditi in:

A fig

XEs

SO: DIRECTOR

CONF:

NFO :

#11.

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIE"

-MIG TUO-.

86911

WHICH HAD A MAJOR PART IN THN 18 NOV COUP. THIRE HAS FIRE HO

F2OL89AIZ FUNCE OF INATUISTE IÃ THE AEST, AS COVARINTS SPORTSMEN

18E77:R473 TE LINE THAT TS COUP MAS NOT DIRECTED AGATIST AT PARTY: 11

1/3AATHI8IS IN THE COVERIANT, BLADED BI PAULIS, NUMIBEER HARDEN

TIKIITI AND VICT PRESIDENT BAIR, BEFONTIDLT AlE FREEING fOR GRADUAL

I UPTION ON BAATHIST CONTROL AND FOR CONTINUATION ON BAATE

POLICIES.

L FINITE IS ADO SEPORTS TO BE PROTICTINE

BANTEISTA REDSDI ARTISTED BY ABCURITY OFFICIATE. I

PEREIIST AVIS AND PURIE TAHIN LATES AIR THYING TO MAINTAIN

& NEUTRAL POSITION. YAHYA ERLIEVES TUT TEE FIL

A SITUTION MAY

EVENTUIT HAD TO ANOTHEE COUP. / /

3. III: //POLITICA TINION IN SYRIA END INCHRASHE CON

SIDERABLY DURING THE PAST THAKE DAYS AND A COUP MAT BI DEVELEPING.

BAATHIST PUITY YOUDERS ATLIQ AN BITAL HAV ASID FOR VIBAS TO GO

ABROAD, ILE SIVIRAL COLLITIVE LUDES HAVE IN EIRANED TON

CUSTONY. THEFE ARE ALSO IMICSTIONS THAT ATTRIPTS ARE BRING MADE TO

OUST BAATHIST VICE PRINTER GENERAL VIRAN. // (COMF)

I. "RAT: !!TIL IRANIAN COVENEIT CONTINUES TO BE CH-CURIED

OVKE ALLEGEDLY RASIRIST OR MA RAATHIRT. AGITATION AMONO

4019097lfiong soot

REPRODUCT O' SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBIISO.

Cape Min.e

---

## Page 3

SNIHOWW

MART.

=31

10

5721

RABS IN SOUT

REPTHAT ARAE

SATIONIST ACTIVITIRA TA RE ARE RECEIVING

QUIBIDE SUPPORT. / /

/SAVAX, THE IRANIAN SECURITY AND INMILLIGENCE ORGANIZATION,

REPORTEDLY ARRESTED ABOUT ILÜ ANAES IN KHUZESTAN PROVINCE ON 26 NOV,

AID THE BOUIDUP IS CONTINUINE, LOCAL ARAB DISSIDENT ACTIVITY HIS

APPANENTLY BELT SHITE CASE FAICE SUE SOME TISE, BUT THE LANGE

NUMBER O ARTESTS APPEARS TO HAVE BIEN ONDIKE FROM THERAN, TAKI

TARKE IS AN EXAGGERATED APPREIENSION OVER ARAB "UNITY" MOTHETTE. I l

(CONE)

#. TURKEY: FRISE MINISTER INONO'S COALITION GOVERMINT RE-

SICILED 3 DEC ATTEN IT SORES OF UNREST AND INSTABILITY.

IHONU'S RESIGNATION WAS PRECIPITATID BY THE DEFEAT OF TEE TVO

MINOR PARTIES IN HIS COALITION BY TEE CASITION JUSTICE PAITT (MP)

IN THE LICIT LOCAL ELECTIONS. PRESIUENT GUNSEL HAS ASKED INDNU"S

CABINET TO STAY GH UNTIL ANOTIER CAN BE FORMED. AFTER IGONE'S

FIESI COÁLITION DiAPSE

IN JUMR 1953 MEARLY A NONTE PASSED SAPONE

ME HAS AHLE TO PULL TOGETHER A USE COVERIMENT.

BONT LESS CONTROVERSIAL: FIGURE LAY LA LAOSEN TO CANE THE LEAS

THIS TILI, DISCUSSION OF A ANY COALITIAN AS CHITREDION THO

M 8 6.2 A 5 1 8 60 118 1 86. 1R

JICRIY

smaioe.21.n

AUTHINTICATINE

-J L0110

0651618

THAN THE ISEUING CERICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cary No.

---

## Page 4

00 &

EXY

DAIE :

1@.

#RON: • DIRECTOR

CONF

17

CE BILE EN CARENO

Ides 1 : 3462

BOUTIN

TO

iNFO

-RAGE FOUR-

86711

SOSBILILITTES-A "NATIONAL" GOVERNINS INCLIOLNG IZAILY ARL DARTERS,

OR A COMBINATION ON TRE JP AND TEI NULLIO ENDOLSGAS MOIRE'

S CTPRUS: !/GRERT AND TURKISE CHURIOT ETOURS EVIN ATLY AHE

TRAT A QUONDONT OVER III QUISTION OT JAVIBITO CYPRUS' CORASITUTION. Il

INPRENIERHI MAKARIOS HAS FOEZAILS GIVEN VICE FIRRIDAT LUCIUI,

THI SRADER OF THE TURKISE COMMUNITE, A MANI

BANDEN DROSERINE: 1R

SUIT MOLPICATION ON CONSTITUTIONAL PARVISSUNN. HUICE TE SUR

PIRATO AS GUARAMXBINO TILIR MINORITY RIGHTS, TUNNERE ETYRIOT

LHADIO: SUPPONTED BY TER TURIIEN COVERINUTE; NAVE COSBIBTENTLS ET-

JICT AIY SICH MODIPICATIONS. Il

(ENARIOS. PREVIOUSLY INDICATID WASI UTINATILS NISHT ACT

VILATIRALLY TO CONVEXE A CO STITUTONAL ARBRELY II THE TURKISH

COMMUUITY REJUKE TO AGARE TO HIS BASIC DETANIE. M INBISTE THINE

ARI SAXITIAL II CYPRUS IS TO HATE A VORKABLE COVIARRAT. II

#/THR ALABADY STRAINED RELATIONS ENTIEN GREER ASD TURKIBE

CYPRIOTS VILE DSTARIORATA RAPIDUI IT LARABIUS LOTUNAT SOTIS TO OVER-

RIEN THR SURES' OPFOSITIOT, ROTH GARRI AID TURKTEN OCRCUNTTIES HATE

PARANTLITANT ORGANIZATIONS. UNICE, ARR. UXPORT

84283436 9891659

SECKIT

ODUCTION BY CIMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FRCHINTED.

---

