# 104-10217-10067

## Page 1

104-10217-10067

• FROM

ACTION.

INfO

•O AUS 6O

DIRECTOR

HAVANA

WH T

DOP, COP, ADOP/A, S/6 2

1L82

AUG 30 2052Z 60

DIV ASTIFIED 1715-30 AUG 60)

PRIORITY

0593090

IN 85493.

PRITY DIR INTO PRITY MASH REXI CITE HAVA 5929

IMNET

RES. A HAVA 5868 (IN 44133*

"B MEXI GiGS (12/43033)

ON,25 AUG AYCALL LEEPORTED TOLL ADR DEVELOPRENTSI

MANOLO RAY EAS AGREED TO JOIN THE ADR AND IN DOING

SO HAS PLACED 'DRA. ELENA MEDEROS, JORGE BERUFF AND ENU PAPROSO

ON NATIONAL DIRECTOZATE. - RAY RAS INKERITED RALL CHIBAS FORCES

AND ALSO FORKING CLISELY HITA OPPOSITION GROUP LASALVAR, A CUBA

(SAC>• RAY WANTS BUFO LOPEZ TRESQUET PLACED ON NATIONAL DIRICTORiTE

SO AS TO NEUTRALIZE HIM, TOOLING THAT HE COULD DO ADE HARN IF NOT

ANTONIO TEELANDEZ NUIVA, ADMINISTRATOR OF COLON PEMETERY

IS ADR'S INTACT MAN UITE -JOSE MIRO-CARDONAS ADR ROPES-DETERMINE

IS MIRO VILL BE FROST MAN TOR ADR WITH A VIEU TOWARD HIS EVENTUALLY

WORKING WITH AMPASP.

Co. FALSTINO PEPEZ HON'IN ORIENTE PROVINCE WORKING. WITH INRA.

HE BEING WATCHED BY. 6-20

DO DAVID-SALVADOR DCES NOT KNÓU THAT ACALL 1 AND MATOLO

RAY HAVE JOINED TORCES. OUTLE HEITHER VANT SALVADOR IN ADR,

BOTH PLAN TO ACET INDEPZICIITLY EITH SALVADOR AND ASK SIMILAR

SARA

REPROOUCTION EY COLET FLAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHITED

Cogy No.

---

## Page 2

SECRET

PASE C

GUESTIONS THEN COMPARE NOTES.

2O AEO1 AGAIN CONTACTED STATION CUTOUT BIRIARIS 2S AUG TO ADVISE

"HAT"REF À DEPARTURE HAD BEEN ADVANCED TO 3. SEPT. AM-S ALSO

REPORTED THAT FERNANDES NUEVA, PARA & B ABOVE, HAD TALKED WITH

MIRO 23 AUGO MIRO STATED HE GOING TÓ PUERTO RICO TO TEACH,

WOULD" COOPERATE WITH ADR IN ANY WAY POSSIBLE, BUT FELT AMMAIL

WOULD OPPOSE HIS PARTICIPATICN I! AMPASP IN VHICH CASE MIRO WOULD

RETIRE FROM ADR IN INTEREST NOT WANTING TO JEOPARDIZE ADR

*o printer, tina yt

ESERPORATION INTO AMCIGAR.

ANCALL'1 WILL-BE BRIEFED ON IMPORTANCE ADR SUBORDINATING

DUN INTEREST IN BID TOP AMRASP SUPPORT. STATION OF OPINION

ANSCALL S: WILL TAKE• NO ACTION DETRIMENTAL TO, AMHAIL WHO GOT HIM

HIS PRESENT JOB AT BANCO: CONTINEATAL ÖR TO AMHAWK UNO EMPLOYED

- HIM AS PERSONAL SECRETARY CAPACAS.

• FILED 2922207-

END OF LESSAGE

C/S'COMMENT: ESTATED ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENTS IN ADR AND POSITION OF MANOLO RAY

AND DAVIO SALVADOR BY SEPARATE: CABLE

SEC

---

