# 104-10163-10181

## Page 1

104-10163-10181

SECRET

8 sarch 1960

MORA FOR TER SECORD

tense finaolal altentles, 1t ma acred that none effort should be made to

halp him in the mattes, locordiney, after a sbort monting in deal mita

ATTATDER-1, Intohhard and Interline aerod to onblo the station, bringin

than sp todato en the matter.

Do There supeared to be some lenderstanding batween lendparters and

inahhasit vith regant to vorther ANLArTIl Loo lo a statalone person at

the prosent time hould lone the cousisy for mah a slaço ne insens and to

lanter the Diates with proper donmentation. After 1% mn eplatned to Intehhertt

that Innúgarter bas a obitestion to Intention in tale anttes, be nood

De Anetrust AlCATTIl to broonel to Immen in the not fun daya and ent his

I. It beene vesy arrest duried the mosting with AtArd that hi

11111 10 n0st mous to rura vita the encintention. Inacine seoulved an

@moller ampression of th my, bie sotivation, his drive, and his provent

mes 1i you of the hardalton he hes muttered.

that sons ocidention vould be elven to finding aplogut for hin on hia

sutra 1t bo mo menna so elorifying his status la the Statoo.

% Do Suterlin

2=E. A10

61/4 Nemo 111

• - ANTIATERS I T11

D3

_ and M. Fh1llipe: (Intos Mr, Starulis)

Iis sion so the lect

689188-108

*Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

SECRET

ho 1111 be opurating, I rocommad that you five inodlate and serious considerton

tO hIrIng NTIATIH-I as an achinitrutive belper, trasmitter, ore. He knows

my of the soup ve ure vorking vith and, from all that I have satered from the

Cuban Station, 18 extremis estertiva in vorting vita Cuban antionala. I theretore

belleno this un any to puinely uhat no ure looking for to take suas of the load

01t Int and allor him a little more time for his artias. Advise me of your

decision on thie mtter.

Bar A01-2510.3

SECRET

---

