# 104-10181-10113

## Page 1

104-10181-10113]

..

53,80

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

EK-34/56

3 APR iBS?

HE MORANDU'S FOR TIE PECORD!

SUBJICT

: ( Possible DPE Animus Toiaris President Kennedy

REFERENCE:

remorandum 8 "larcis 1967 sane subject

The DRE was an anti-Communist student orgarization

provide nominal financial support to the DRE until September

1966 and terminated our relationshi, completely on amiable

terms 1 January 1967. 1

According to the warren Commission Report

(VOL. X, Pgs. 32-50), Lee Harvey Oswald approached Carlos

Bringuier, the New Orleans delegate of the Cuban Student

Directorate on 5 Mugust 1363 and volunteered to join the

organization and to help train Cubans

to fight against Castro.

Bringuiar turned him down believing hin to be either

informant or Communist penetration agest.

some friends of bringuier saw Oswald wearing a "llands off

Cuba" sign and distributing pro-Castro leaflets.

ported it to Brinquier who

angrily accosted Oswald on the

street. A fight ensued and Bringuier and Oswald were ar-

On 21 August 1963 the two engaged in a radio debate.

Oswald identified nimself as a Marxist and defended the

Castro cause. Bringuier is referred to later in the arren

Commission Report as the New Orleans delegate to the Povo-

lutionary Student Directorate (VOL. XI, Pg. 159).

There is no doubt that the Cormission actually

das refcrring to the Student Revolutionary Directorate

DRE as we term it. Another anti-Castro erganization mentioned. X

FI

SECRET

---

## Page 2

•SECTSI

in connection with the above incident was the Information

Council of the americas.

Accorting to Paul Oberst, of the

Cusan Operations Group ¡COG/Ca), CIA did not fund this

organization altiough ic hai contacts sit! sore of its nem

bers.

It is abundantly clear that the drE had no part

in the Kennedy assassination.

Oswald was never a member

of the DRE, which in fact, rejected him.

In developing

Carl Trettin, Deputy Chief of the Counterintelligence Branch

of the Cuvan Operations Group who krew Bringuier and was

stationed in New Orleans at the tire of the above incidents;

and Margaret Forsythe also of the Cuban desk who is thoroughly

familiar with the DRE operation.

AEDOOleY

2

SEGRET

1111:34:3

---

