# 104-10166-10176

## Page 1

104-10166-10176k

03

0HI6

UNIT:

10/7/nalti

EXT:

4178

DATE :

23 Fes 1966

TOTAL CODIES

D INDEE

ITSECRET

O NO INOEN

O PLE IN CÓ PILENO.

2

Biasti

FEDERAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE. AGENCY

WH8

uNa va. Mur I RID COPY C1/0PS, 11/04, EE6

TO

CITE OU

82545

FOREIGN DISSEM

• SUBJECT: GEORGE DE YOHREN'SCHILDT

J REFERENCE IS MADE D TO OUR CSCI-316/01792-65 DATED A MAY 1965

CONCERNING SUBJECT. FURTER INTORNATION RECEIVED BY A REPRESENTATIVE

OF THIS AGENCY INDICATES THAT MOHRENSCHILDT INTENDS TO LEAVE HAITI:

FOR THE UNITED STATES TONARDS THE END OF FESRUARY OR EARLY MARCH 1966.

SUBJECT STATED THAT HIS ORIGINAL CONTRACT NITH THE GOVERNMENT OF HAITI

(GOH) ## HAD FALLEN THROUGH AND THAT THE GOH OWED HIM $100,000.

SUBJECT ADDED THAT IIE PLANNED TO SPEND SIX WEEKS OR SO IN THE UNITED

STATES AND THEN RETURN TO HAITI NITHOUT HIS WIFE TO TRY TO ARRANGE TO

RECEIVE HIS BACK PAY IN THE FORM OF REAL ESTATE, PREFERABLY PROPERTY

ON THE COAST WITH TOURIST/COMMERCIAL POTENTIAL..

MOHRENSCHILDT"S CLOSE CONTACT IN HAITI IS STILL LODZIMIR?

GALICKI, THE POLISH COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVE IN HAITI. ONE HAITIAN

MERCHANT ACCUSED GALICKS OF USING SUBJECT TO WIDEN HIS CONTACTS IN THIS

¿ GOH• SUBJECT HAS ALSO BEEN ON CLOSE TERMS WITH NICOLAS I.. ROUDE, A

SUSPECTED SOVIET AGENT. SUBJECT AND HIS WIFE ARE GREGARIOUS AND HAVE

MADE MANY CONTACTS IN HAITI.

•"PREVIOUS INFORMATION ON NLODZIMIERZ GALICKI HAS BEEN MADE

Coys

DIR 82645 (23/2/66)

• TO FEI LATEST INTO

ABLLAGIN COPIONI

BOOROIRATIMA OFFICE

SECRET

MAPRODUETIONBY

OTHIN THAN THE ISSUING

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

---

