# 104-10133-10337

## Page 1

104-10133-10337

3."

T 981395

..,. .... m

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

Jeie&3s0276

15/502, 056, OPO/IT64,

=14768

PAGE 01

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IPRODUCTION SY OTHER THI

SIND OFFiCE 15

PROMIaiTE

STAFF?

EGESTICE

IN 944357

19536

S E

C

RE T SEEZZOE JUN 76

STAFF

CITE

19536

TO: PAIDRITY DIRECTOR INFOCLA/MIAMI

ESDEW ESMIGH

REFS:

19518 (IN 937052)

B ,

19375 SNOT SENT

i.

ESMICA-dE (E-S8) PASSEDd

(11 890367)

WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

VERZAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON

REF A CASE AND RESULTS, ACCORDING REPORT AND E-68, NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT (MLND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

I MER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE AUGUST 75.

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN GARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT AND É-68 CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GEGALO PATRICK HEMMING INO

TRACES*, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN TO GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT, REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 15) REQUESTS

EY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

Din- Guitars Desk.

*1041

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SLE SEC. DISSENS 3Y

_PER

¡SON UNIT NOTINGO.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RL'S BY

REPRODUCTION

ISSUING

OFFICE IS

STAFF

INCE COPY SSUEOLGLOTIEO

iTION UNIT

BY

AT

RF. FILE

VR .

3

ACTION A

T 981395

E1A767

PAGE D2

IN 944357

TOR: B82242Z JUN 76

19536

IS ZIMER! STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

M. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA...

DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

• E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST KE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA, E

=-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMÁLA ILLESALLY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY:

POLANS DISSEM INFO ON ZIMERI CASE BUT WITHE-T

2.

MENTIONING

KENHINGS BY NAME, PLAN PREPARE MEMO FOR CHAFFE

AND RSO AND WILL SUGGEST THAT LATTER ATTEMPT ANSWER QUEST:ONS

FOR LAUGERUD.

3.

ESCEMAL AND E-68 ALSO REPORTED 7 JUNE IN SOME DETAIL ON

SOLUTION OF NOVELLA KIDVAPPING CASE CREF BI. THERE POLITICAL

IMPLICATIONS THIS CASE ALSO SO WE DISSEMING.

E-68 CLAIMS

SECRET:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

: DIG DISSERT OT

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN!

ZE S22%, ISSUED ALOTTED

N

RF.

FiE

FIY

REPRODUCHION OY OTHER THIN

ISSUING

C-RICE

PROMaTED

ISTAFF

VR

1OT

Ỳ 931395

PAGE D3

IN

844357

TOR: 0822427 JUN

76

19536

THERE AMERICA: = ISSIBLY INVOLVED THIS CASE, ONE FRANK BUCK

SPIRABLY IDENT:EAL TO SUBJECT OF 201-0819515, A REGISTERED

WHO CLAIMS BE DOCTOR BUT DOES NOT PRACTICE HERE.

HE ALLEGEDLY LOVER OF SISTER OF INTELLECTUAL AUTHOR OF NOVELLÀ

KIDNAPPING PLAS. MORGE ALFONSO LO BO DUBON, IN WHICH ANOTHER

LOBO BROTHER, DESE FERNANDO LO 8 O DUBON, ALSO INVOLVED.

DIDE HAS REQUESTED UNATEVER INFO WE MIGHT HAVE ON BUCK. 1

PLANS INCLUDE THIE NAME ALSO IN MEMO TO CHARGE AND RSO

BUT WILL

OMIT IT FROM DISSEM.

• 4. FOR

ONE SOURCE OF INFO ON ZIMERI CASE MAY WELL

HAVE BEEN

ESDEH-1, COS SAW LATTER BY ACCIDENT & JUNE, (ESDEW-1

SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PROVIDING INFO TO GOG ON ZIMERI FOR PAST

SIX MONTHS OR SO AND ADDED THAT TWO AMERICANS INVOLVED WITH

ZIMERI, ONE OF WHOM RUNS A GUARD SERVICE IN MIAMI, HE DID

NOT MENTION NAMES BUT DESCRIBED ONE AS ABOUT SIX FEET FOUR INCHES

AiD WEIGHING ABOUT 238 POUNDS. ESDEW-1 PLANS RETURN MIAMI WITHIN

TWO WEEKS SINCE IN OVER TWO YEARS HERE HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO

FIND

JOB WITH SUFFICIENT SALARY PERMIT HIM LIVE COMFORTABLY.

5. PLS ADVISE IF YOU CONCUR WITH THIS METHOD OF HANDLING

REQUESTS FOR INFO ON AMERICANS AND OTHER LAUGERUD REQUESTS.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEC DISSEN

BY

TOTA: COPIES

SECRET

- Dr.

RF. FILE

VR

N

TITONS

T

981395

E1A767

PAGE 04-04

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

6. FILE:

201-08195=5, ZIMERI 201-,

35-4-22.

SECRET

REPFODUCTION

BY OTHER

ISSUING

OFFICE IS

STAFF

IN 944357

19536

E2. IMPDET.

---

## Page 5

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

