# 104-10185-10174

## Page 1

104-10185-10174

FORMATIONSREPOR

SINFORMATION REECE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Kamorni Sucham of Ste United Biater withte the sam

≤E-C-R-E-T

NO FURELES DISSEY

couNTi Cuba

REPORT NQ

SURECT Ramiro VALDES Menendea

DATE DISTR

7 Jane 1343

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-3110:75€1

iF 88=1

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE 4

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO

ABILL 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 1S LNEVALUATED

INPORALA TION

GRADINOS

ANI DUNNIUVE APPRAISAR OR COME

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intellece

Service until April 1901.

Headguarters Comments :

The following refort is one of a series cortaining personatity

information provided by the source and includes supplem tal

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take ne action oe ay c

the individuals mentioned in the persorality raports milkcu

first checking with this agency.

1.

Ramiro VALDES Nenender, the Minister of Intorier, lives to e

house on 9th Avenue between 66th and 68th Stre-r.

The ru

is only a short distance from the Departamento

le Libertier

Vacional (National Liberation Department - IN) ICa-d 5E i=

Avenue in the Miramar district of Havana.

2. VALDES was married to one Irina VALDES; however, SCREtIR- FEST

to April 1964, they were divorced.

RETURN TO CIA

sakaround Use Only

De Not Reproduce

5

4

3

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I OLA

REPCISCLIST

T ARMY

CISCSO *

(Now: Fredd

ibution dedicatod by "#**)

NAVY

IANS

NSA

OCI

EP i

INFORMATION REPORT

WHS: CH

10275, R

INE

INEORMATION REPOET

JITE

3:

11-243

147-I

DF2-R5

be. 115H

RID'IN

WEE BASE

TOTALS 155, 8 (1), NE 1 (1), CLA. RID 1

CONSTANT N

LIAISON #

201-265065

4/pd

---

