# 104-10215-10132

## Page 1

104-10215-10132

SECRET

20240-332214

MEMORANDUM FOR: ChloR, :ni/C/:52/0A

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of

8 A/56

Por the purpose specified in your request

dated 12 Septanber 1961

.....

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this

Office, and

is granted

under authority contained in CSI and CSI-T 10-5.

18/ Earard?. Brown

CI/OPERATIONAL, APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 29 May 1965

Distribution:

Orig. to Addressee

1 to Files

SECRE1

19-86 124

109

---

## Page 2

14-00000

BEY W

CaPEDITE

DATE

InDICES

Pisterse cor

DATE

S&P

1A6C1A6

COUT AME

CHECE

AHEA

USE

SECRET

DATE

INSTRUCTION SHEET

CaSE 40. 8080

332676

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APFROTAL

BEQUEST GALEN LIST

ISSUE PAOVISIONAL OPERATIONAS ASPBOVAL

REQUEST RESULTS FU/D DOSSIER REVIEN

REVIEW TI'D COLLATERAL BATORMATICN

ARIASTATE POA FOR.

DAYS UNTIL

EQUEST RESULTS TECHNICA

GIEBDOGATION TRO

106800.

FOREARD AFTACHMENY TO DIVISION

REVIEN SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CO/DA

FORWARD TO

SECURITY OFFICE

ATTA6HMGB8

REVIEN SECURITY OFFICE CONCURLET MEND AT GI/OA

(No BORE® 0015100

DiViniaNo DATED

REVIEN AT CI/OA

aNCE

PER

hocked

ACOLUTIEN BEDON!

REQUEST

DEVICE

OF

ADVISE CI/DA

ATTACHED REFERENCE,

MATURE AND

SIGNIFICANCE

REQUEST BI TRACES

REQUEST

OPERATIONAL AAD DIVISION TRACES

BEQUEST FIELD

TRACES

MOTICE

18 Зине ра месь че 751,

166018

REQUEST

OTHER

POA

ERPIRED

PLEASE SUBMIT

INDICATED, POA MILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLEO.

PAO 11. 18, MITMIN S0 DAYS, NO FURTNER

INTEREST IN SUBJICT

•FAILUME TO SUBMIT PRO

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF

18 AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO, IO-9 OR TO INDICATE ANT FURTHER INTEREST II

sUBJECT.

OATAInING

APPROVAL

REMARK$

C.o.

HAs BEEN CALLET.

7-89 707

Sumer use, de

SECRET

621)

dio alre

45

i

---

