# 104-10071-10034

## Page 1

1104-10071-100341

LI INCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

CI/Ober

TO: (Oñcer designation, roam number, ond

building)

1.

2.

NTERNAL

USE ONLY

có.

.. IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

No.

B-308

DATE

17 Feb 69

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

6180 Milemar tao smy

Originated by:

WH/7/

(7 Feb

69)

Based on:

OEL-53,301

Paras.

12

13

(a)

(b)

14 (c)

Disseminated to FBI on

17 Feb 69

10.

31.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62.

Passed Sam Papich a second

copy of attachment (CSDB-

312/00191-69) on: 1 8. MAR 1969

per his request.

Mle:

В - Мето

(record copy)

CC:

100-300-044 (JWK)

CC:

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

MISF ONLY

B- 308

7525

UNGLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREICA DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

BACKERGUND USE ONLY

18 FEB 1659

HEXORANDUM

SUBJECT: Bahanas/United States Black Power Ties

I. The monthly report on the Bahamas for October 1968

contains several references

to

ties berween Black Power groups in the Bahamas and the

united States, which are provided, in full, below.

A summary

of the report, omitting portions concerning the United States

or United States citizens, is being disseminated (see attached

report).

2.

The items of possible interest, omitted from the

dissemination, are noted below:

A. On 29 October 1968 Dr. Alfred D. King,

brother of the late Dr. Martin Luther King,

delivered a highly inflammatory address of a

racialist character at a public meeting in Nassau

He severely attacked disparities in the Bahamas

between white and colored members of the popula-

tion:

The disparities were highly exaggerated by

King who said that, while there was political

freedom in the Bahamas, black Bahamians did not

have economic freedom.

B. It is apparent that King came to the

: Bahamas on the invitation of Dudley Williams,

President of the Bahamas Engineering Fuel and

Allied Workers Union, and Reverend R.E. Cooper,

a Baptist Minister.

and

As King's visit was his first

was for so short a time, it is evident that

he spoke from a prepared brief.

Another visiting

speaker, Erskine Hepburn, a Bahamian-born U.s,

naturalized citizen, President of Branch No.

339

of the ATL/CIO in Jacksonville, Florida, delivered

an address on sinilar lines as did Williams.

Both indicated

that king might be invited to return

to the Bahamas.

C.

The impression gained is that Willlans is

identifying the leaders of the Bahamas Federation

of Trade Unions with the Government and is

endeavo

oring to extend the struggle within the union

novement into the political field.

To do this ha

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• CONTROLLEO DISSEM

NO DISSEL ASSONO

BIES ONLY

BACKERGUNIO USE ONLY

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKEROUND USE DARTY

EYES ONLY

is prepared to exploit militant racialism for

political ends with possible further activities

by Dr. King and this

could

produce

security

problens.

WH/7/1

- JSe

Distribution:

Orig - FBI w/att. CSDB-312/00191-69

/3

- CI/SO

1

- WH/7/ JATS/R

1

1

- C/WH67/ JATS

- C/WH/7

1 - C/WH/FI

Based on:

OEL -53,301

Paras.

12

(a)

13 (b)

14 (c)

(7 February 1969)

NO FOREIGN DISSEA

NO DISSEM ABSOAD

SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSAN

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

EYES ONLY

---

