# 104-10177-10158

## Page 1

104-10177-10158

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Ep/or /cum/cit/cuT

DATE

TO

8 CIRCC7US

I fine (root on

FROM: I MAVARA

ACTION NA1.5

Manet entry Phil as inbiared

Marti

INFO: CI, CLOPS, CI/OA, FL, S/C miu

"ROUTING

HAn 22 07392-60

ROUTING

03

IN 16:65

RETURN TO CIA

around Use Only

Reproduce

TO

INFO

-DIR

HAVA 3824)

RE DiR 20487 (OUT 55783)*

1o: STATION FEELS STRONGLY WOULD BE SERIOUS MISTAKE FOR ODIDCX OR ANY COYOKE

AGENCY RECRUIT MORGAN FOR OPERATIONAL PURPOSES. MORGAN WHO REPORTEDLY UNDER

LOCAL CLOUD IT WAS RUMORED OVER WEEKEND HE HAD SOUGHT ASYLUM IN FORCION ENSASSY):

IS PERFECTLY CAPABLE BETRAYING ODYOKE OR HIS OWN MOTHER IS IT WOULD ANVANCE HI'S

PERSONAL INTERESTS:.

THANKS. TO MORGAN DR. GUSTAVO DE LOS RCYCS AND A GREAT MANY

RECENT CUBANS ARE NOW SERVING LONG PRISON TERMS?

2. APAN-S, MOS, MOTHER ICANS IN CASTROUS OPIC, AFTER CASTO f

124-52525

ARGUELE DUE MER ASSOIATION WITH JACK LEGION OSSORIO E UNSTABLE AND BITCALY

ANTI-COYOKE DESPITE HIS POPRIME CITIZENSHIP, HIS POSITION ALSO DCLIEVED SHAKY.

LOCAL ODENVY INFORMED COS INFORMALLY SOME TIME AGO THAT JACK LEG EVANS CONFESSED

TO OCENVY OFFICIALS THAT HIS STORY OF SASOTAGE OF LA COUORE WAS COMPLETE FABRI

CATION. SEE MKHA CALSO RECIO HKH)-5098 FOR TRACES ON MICHAEL COLIN WO CARLY 59

HAS ASOCIATEO WITH MINUEL PEMABAZ (SCE 3611 1901).

3. SEE ANVOICE PROJECT FOR IDEN ODIBEX AGENT.

FILEC: 2119402

END " MESSAGE

CS COMENT: "HOS STATED THAT DOIDEX. WAS IN CONTACT WITH HOS 18 MARCH RE MLAN THEY

CONSICERING TO RECRUIT WILLIAM MORGAN: THROUGH AN ODIDEX AGENT IN CUBA.

HEQUESTrO

STATION COMMENTS.

TOn 1380 19as

: 933

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITEO.

Copy do,

218R

---

