# 104-10183-10420

## Page 1

104-10183-10420]

anot

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

o....

30 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Operational Comments relating to

AMWHIP and AMLASH Matters

REFERENCE:

Contact Report on 22 & 23 June

Meetings with Carlos TEPEDINO

Friends of Carlos TEPEDINO may be useful in securing

or establishing contact with Cubans connected

with the regime, including those residing in Cuba, travelling

outside or stationed outside &

possibilities so that we may

when appropriate.

examples, might

SOTO and Marcelinod

use could

be compartmented completely from the ALASH operation.

page 1, paragraph 1 and page 8 paragraph 4 of reference.)

In evaluating reports or considering operations,

should

be mindful

of Rolando's mistrust of ARTIME and respect

for RAY.

(See page 6 paragraphs 16 and 17.)

The expectation that an assassination of Fidel CASTRO

may be attempted on 26 July 1965 coincides with that of

ESPINOSA. Although neither has hard current information, an

intelligece dissenination attributed so as to disguise the

sources may be in order.

Reporting after the fact would not

be impressive. (See page 7 paragraph 18.)

SECRET

ERE+800 8088 8630938

= 86 108

. 8. 50

...

---

## Page 2

SECRET

- 20

5. Copies

of the reference possibly should be sent to

Paris and Madrid not merely because of their general interest:

but also because of information which concerns current or proposed

operations.

For example, the reflection of TEPEDINO's views

on his own

CARRILLO (pages 8 and 9 paragraphs

29 and 30 of reference) and the leads concerning CARRILLO's

mother-in-law In Paris and U.s. employed aunt in Madrid (See

page 9 paragraphs 31

and 32) might be useful reminders.

denial of contäct with CANTILLO in Madrid and the denial o

smuggling are in conflict with a Madrid report. (See page 10

paragraphs 37 and 38.

LCFLUTTER arrangements are in process. No operator 1s

available until & July and the Spanish speaking operator 18

on transfer fron Miami to Headquarters where he will arrive

•on or about 6 July..

Coupled with Carlos' own workload and

travel plans, the

foregoing makes an examination in the

Headquarters

the best arrangement.

shall be available.

Mr. (Tebster )is contacting Carlos.

isee

page 10 paragraph 40.)

(HS)

Harold F. Swenson

WH/C/SP

SECRET

---

