# 104-10183-10201

## Page 1

104-10183-10201

i SECHET

24 July 1964

NEMORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Neeting with AMNHIP/1, KH/SA Safehouse #1,

Washington, D. C., 22 July 1964

l. Meeting Time/Place/Purpose:

This meeting was held

at WH/SA Satehouse No. I from 1100 to 1930 for the purpose

of further debriefing AMWHIP on the MHAPRON and certain CI

aspects of his recent trip to Europe during which time he

elicited information from AMLASH/2 and Ambassador CARRILLO

He also finished transcribing the highlights of

a conversation between AJLASH/2 and AJWHIP/1 taped (unbe-

knownst to AVLASH/2) in Paris in late Vay 64.

The product

of this meeting is being processed and handled by WHAPRON

personnel.

Material revelant to AMiHIp's interests will be

The transcript will be retained by MAPRON

2• Attending the mecting were

the undersigned.

Commitments: AWHIP has an

old maternal aunt still

in Havana who desires to spend her remaining days with

ANNHID/1's mother in New York City.

alight, is 75 years old.

AMSHIP/1

She is of Spanish nation-

stated that he would appre

ciate any assistance we

could render in getting her into the

We stated that he should arrange to get her to spain

through his

own friends in lavana,

would do what we could to expedite her entry into the

and that from thereisa.

AJNHIP/1 also wishes

to help his cousin (on his mother's side),

The cousin's mother is

If it Is possible,

it would be a useful gesture to aid all four persons come into

the USA, providing, of course, there are no prohibitive cir-

cumstances.

Further bio data

will be obtained when the en

migration details are firmed up.

SIGHET

VIBR

---

## Page 2

SECHET

2

security:

There were no incidents of a security

meeting to the best knowledge of the

ANHIP/l was picked up at Washington Nationa

the got une at cao at the a house a HiP as

riven on a brief sight-sceing tour by the undersigned, an

ater at 2135 deposited at the entrance to the passenge

i/BR

---

