# 104-10192-10126

## Page 1

104-10192-10126

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

HASS

3P

REMORI COVER SHEET

SECRET

DATE US READIT

UFG 6800

IMWAVE

VINO осʼя

•VICtOr I. SUCHARA "T

BINTO UPPICHA

Margarot R. MAXALiuta

віто ооріскй..

Andion K. REUTENAN

ACHONDUNO DATA AND CONNITI

9 March 1965

1t PoU

TYPIC

02

Souzco:

LUGAMBER-A who spoko with danuel RAY Rivero at

Miamt Intornational Airporto

the

RAY hnd requested the mooting to

toll the Source that ho had hoard good things about him and

about his collaboration with Cubans in the fight against Communen

RID: Please index.

8 Ствов1 8с600: 01-309. м

0088 4

Group

1:

Excluded from

Automatic Doungrading

and Doclassification

OPTIONAL

1

2

2

- Has

00/C

JUBARR

160-10

HDL

CIMINTIT

i trie

- 00

1467

weE

*DITATAS.

HO 1919 DIPLICATON IN ACCOMPANYINO REPORY

DISTRINUTION

1 cy. oach to Miami rops. of:

Ste to, F.B.I.

1O. OF ENGLOURE

nO KARACHE

2. 94080

PADA

SECRET

370.

CS COPY

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING DE SOURCE: À Complay collaria

tester sources)

Di Not usually retiable.

F: Reliability carinet te fudged

oldies to do read insuring

APPRAISAL OF CONTENTI

Bi Cannol to Migra

1: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources, & Probablytrue di Possibly lrue de Doubtful, Su Probably

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN.

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORT:

JuRe Londor, on the duotfoctivoross.

01 Guerrilla Tactics 1a Cuba.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

9 larch 1965

1

DATE OF

1 March 1985

United States

•PLACE #

DAtAca (4 March 1965) and

UTG 6800

A profoundoral military officos vith an ostonaivo caroor in the

minican Arry. Although Source no longor resides in the

Dominican Republic, ho still rotalns many friends there.

a a trained reporter and his information bas been reliable in

the paat..

21-931293

On 1 arch 1965, Manuel

my elvero, esder of the dynt layelu-

ind that be

to the fight against. Communism in Cuba.

Lo advised that the use

of guerrilla tactice under the prusent rogine would he almost

Impossible to acconglish. For this reason,

he said, it nould be

preferable

to bogin operating clardestinely in the large urban

contors and then slorly expand operations to the sural areas of

cute.

Ray adviaed that for the present tine he has no action plens

directed against Cubie

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLID DISSKA

DISTRIBUTION

19-300-1

---

