# 104-10218-10099

## Page 1

104-10218-10099

В 80 .

Date

Prom

• 10 June 1960

• Harry Hernador!

Flor to her departare fron low York, June Cobb viadted the

Cuban Connulate In How Tort City as requested prior to her departure fr

Havant, Milo trere she ma introduoad to an Arien eitisen named

Beral® Branner, a newspaperman fron the llarl each Jun, Brenner 1a a

friend of Cobb's bone Juan Orto, the Id-1rIitrative assistant es F1lel Castro.

renrer gave Cobb a note in an envelope chat w.a sealed for deliver, t

rte Cobb opened the note and copled the corterts which mere as to: ious

"Tall "g" that Harny (Kanual, Arques: 1:1; 19 "ot, mil 'Ot"

The Pode an on ilm. Aguire lio rieat fir ered nia

1г.

"Menender In Lay sost worke 1r. Lic postotrice is bere waiched.

There le a led working rift tie e i"'e 0st office wit. sin

They have sme lotters marie! duat well'; for i!- to o'er "one.

is's not. tie ilate sapirt-ent - - Alan le-l'em tot to use those

replicas of dol: r billa lie tourist ira. trent in üs'n? with

something vritten on baci".

-roorge iouthrort: in working tili to t01s. I solin trit ilth a

"les" (lesbian) and a straight irl vil sone icture ore nizit.

No sald he to ruina to put the snolt lo "apt. Juerra."

•Tall Joris i'adrone mio lives In Ey 29 pe. bullaine 1116 a 2335

by Orlardo indrone that to feds are tring to set to ser. Bidel

brouent int to cuba because she kni sore tulrge she ahcu:tr.'t

know".

"Arques can zo to cuba the 13t:".

"Oscar Faires la being tolled, i4 our call".

June Cobb called

Director of

in hew York

firo gh whom I oristnally met les Cobb,

askin? nis to contact me for she hed

& mossare for me.

called ta it some ind i salled Miss "obb al s

phone booth in the oral rake, jhe told ne of the ibove. I has her eiv the notes:

the passed thier to 'ile at the

Fast Side 41r. lnes

Terminal Ir. Dew york on the everdig of ? 'une.

Burch: Acoording to information flven verbally by Harry Herandorf, when Igor vent

to the alrport and approached Cobb, she waved his away.

He waitod at some

dintance ubile she acriibled avay at the notes; she then folded than 10 a

newspaper and left then for him to pick up.

Harry did not say better she

walked any imediately after leaving the notes, or nether she folced the

In the paper and thenalted for the tuo supposed members of the Cuban Consulte

to join her before bourding the plane.

JP

---

