# 104-10164-10421

## Page 1

104-10164-10421

344-74

10 January 1974

MENORANDUN FOR! CAleP. Mestera Hemisphere Divtston

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

• Salvatora Clancana and Richard Cain

"SAllo rapune Areicles of 28 and 31

A routine name chock was conducted on Salvatore

Cancans with negative results.

A check was chen made with

me Office of Securit

determine .whethor.tholr recorde

arlected that one salvator

cina was ever employed by

CIA as allages

J1 December 167J.

coraing thie

Deputy Baspector

Grocklaridge

any inquiries con

ould be undo to Mr. brackinridge.

WH/COQ touched base with Mr.

that he had

recetved.a copy of the

reforenced aretele.

No here developed the.

Pollening Informatt

the roferenced

26

•n

1078

artiele.

Richard

In Chleago,

1031.

ad

served

dlecherged

1997 end enfe

ted In the

Army where.

0500€1

inted

with

960.

• enterprises.

1m. 11am1

Squads wher

• Whore he remained until

Coneurrent

omployment he operated.

• Aceureto Laboratarted,

wich

1•tiva busined.

• cl

• 00

witH

• Co1n1

Clan A Be at Te lee to me ang

and rol

the ectly.

For ae antid arouse in the chlead

004000

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

June 1961 - Caln contacted Mr. Lohmann,

be the enicago Fiola office, to repert an

approach made to him by a Mr. Kreuponsky

reportedly was negotiating. with.the

Presidont of Panama to Investigato communtsm

Panana.

Cain was to assist Kroupinsky 1n

chla endeavor.

Ciey by i cid

Summer of 1961 • Caln

I was met in Mextee

staffer. Identity unknown.

purpose unknown.

Pron Paneer.

October 1961 • Caln wrote to Mr. Lohmann

He reported on his findings

attleudes coward the u.s.

•In certala

•1

Central

Amerlean countries

and

offered

the

services to

• Ageney.

April 1962 - Caln

to Agoney repp

made an

unannounced viale

• 3

Winston

Scott

, and

and

them

у пе

had

1 co

with

and

Los

Ange

training

to Morican

1p.

could

WaB

provide no proof

%.

Ho

told by Mesara.

€0Bt

and

the U.s.

OPPrOVO

o1 Taericen

Ambassador

d1e пов

citizens

becoming

1n

Involved

Menteen pel

Por carryina

68

• Coin woo deported from Wonted

revolver and broom knuetled.

can.

Government cretatal. and

votesins sla courtor porold by workino.

Shore t

DRUTH A

1061 • Cain: won mot of cho Loha

Athletie

3 Club and Adoloks Glue

1w:

lenno. 111

1 nola

and

tand.

ThO

cont

future

Can wow

bly

with

N1

surrONt 600I

denm

010.

L col % 3nd Pulera.

otocos that

COrR

#NOT5008.

peinted

on t

• Caln

wen clA miant ho

sino Cain torted

MECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRE

Por the cook County Sharlie's offlee.

Me

@180 was In contact with. Cubans 1n

the chicago

ared who were

Involved In ventures

chich were

not completely 1og

cain was told of Ageney

Podulrementa in d

and agrood to assist

providing

cover activie droor the cuben.

under-

espec1a

Paulino S10

contacts.

providing

useful

names of any

Cubans

who

ght

be

CIA, and noting

1n

part

af

rumors. of

any

CIA contacta

1n

the chic

• ATOB.

M.

26 and 30 August

196J

- Information

from

Cala to

the Dch Chicago

0991ce vas

passed

the Cuba

Dest at

He

arters.

The

26

August

Informatt

concurned

Student Dfrectory,

Coban att

grOuP

10: 868€

Im Miam!.

florida.

The J0

gust

fon reported

Nire Cordere's

Interest

# .

11 September

• 1963

ested

, there 18 no Indr

wal

12

ed.

1963•

C

a1 n

Sentember

F101d

reported to the

on

of the one.

Estudlantil:

• who

planned

DRE

POpa

DCO

Washinocon

nter

DCE

• t

prestre

tho

ORL

with

tho

Tora tu

BoOn a 00

commitmento

1007 • the orinee or

Seeurity 11100 olen

that she Pal In 1967

Interated on Investigatten

nood. Malto connections.

Der chia podson en

rocommended that ClA

Corsinate 183 asseelation men Caloo:

Hand diry. 17 rape round ne

SEGREES

---

## Page 4

Baying

he was going to Latin America.

cain allegedly was Involvad in 11lega1

International aras deals and on vardous

occastens stated he was working

for CIA.

WaY 1912 - AnY! doent in Merlen

asked Mexico City Station for t'acer

on Cain.

According to the For an Eastern

Airlines pilot had identified Cain as the

8a Jacke 1972. Porced him 80 Ply do Munduras

3. May 1972.

pranced por

There 1a ne

Indicatten that a clearance was over

the use

of cain by the Agency of that no rocolved

compensation

We have been unable to

as cancere canarelate then he vorked for the oss during

claim that

Gruflle Bathe

C/WN/CO0

1108r1Du&10n

Addressee

COd Chrone

originater

1: 981: 9 366. L. Move

000/WH/CO@/0S/CHopkfnaips (Byped 10Jan. ?4)

L

---

