# 104-10225-10038

## Page 1

104-10225-10038

655).:p.5

10re, Dres

46888.

• 40

FILE nO.

AILERIDO

HET. PO BRANCH O

Ds1o.

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

PISSON UNTY NOTIFIED

ParAl copies 3 o

RIIRODUCTION PACHIDITES

& RID COPY

1900

FILER WHA SHOPS

TADVANCE COFT

don El

SECRE

51822

822$252 CITE JINAVE 4423

INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMUG

REFERENCE?

2310i.

148851

1. / AMMUG-I AVAILABLE DURING PERIOD 1A-2" DECEMBER.

PLS CABLE PREFERRED ETA.

2.

IF

AND HOS CONCUR, PLAN AMMUG-I TRAVEL WITH

PASSPORT UNDER NANE ERNESTO (GARCIA) GUZMAN. HOWEVER

REQUEST

ARRANGE TO SAFEHOUSE AMMUG-I OR REGISTER UNDER

SOME OTHER ALIAS AT HOTEL TO AVOID NECESSITY USE

IDEN-

TITY AND DOCUMENTS EXCEPT TO ENTER COUNTRY, MILL SE ACCOMPANIED

BY

MR

TRAVELLING TRUE NAME WITH TOURIST PASSPORT.

3.

ANNUG-I USUAL PRESENTATION CONSISTS OF SHORT SUMMARY HIS

PERSONAL LIFE STRESSING FACTORS WHICH LED TO POSITION OF DGI

OFFICER AND HIS DECISION TO DEFECT, FOLLOWEO BY OUTLINED PGI

ORGANIZATION; DGI METHODS IN SELECTION, TRAVEL, DOCUMENTATION

AND TRAINING GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINEES; AND DGI AGENT HANDLING

METHODS. ALSO DISCUSSES POSSIBILITIES DETECTING SUCH TRAINEES.

THROUGH ANALYSIS DGI MODUS OPERANDI.

SPECIFIC DGI CESATIONS

DISCUSSED AS PERTINENT.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

PAGE 2 JHWAVE 4423 SECRET

4.

IF

HAS PARTICULAR SUBJECTS IT WISHES

COVERED OR EMPHASIZED PLS CABLE. PER PAST DISCUSSION AMMUG-!

IS NOT GOOD LECTURER; HOWEVER IS GODS AT QUESTION AND

AiSWER SESSION WHICH FOLLOWS. ALSO SUGGEST PLAN AMAUG- I

ARFIVE WITH ONE DAY LLAD TIME TO PERMIT BRIEFING TO INCLUDE

STATION VIEWS IN PRESENTATION.

5. FOR DIRECTOR: PLE POUCH COPIES AMMUC- I DEBRIEFING

IN SPANISH TO

IF THESE PRESENTED FOR READING

PRIOR TO AMMUG-I PRESENTATION OVERALL EFFECT IVENESS IMPROVED.

SECRET

SECRET

---

