# 104-10161-10093

## Page 1

104-10161-10093|

_ PCH_.

N'UNIT NOTHIED

VANCE CONG ISSUERSIOTTED

ACTION UNIT

SECRET

= 66 11 3010

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

ISSUING

THAN

OFFICE 15

PRONIBITED

DeST

DENGL

CTION #

o/commos, awo 2216-17

SECRET D21944Z MAR 77 STAFF

CI TE

16-17

7 32390

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR..

WN INTEL RY BAT

REF:

32384(N 203537) *

1, CARACAS ENGLISH LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER "THE DAILY JOURNAL"

OF 2 MARCH HAS FOLLOWING EDITORIAL COMMENT ENTITLED "THE NEW YORK

TIMES AGAIN"!

. TEXTI "WHAT IS THE NEW YORK TIMES TRYING TO DO?

#E70

IT PRINTED AN ERRONEOUS REPORT SLANDERING THE HAD OF A

FRIENDLY STATE, BASED ON RUMORS WHICH ITS OWN CORRESPONDENT

THIS

ADMITTED WERE NOT FULLY CHECKED DUT. TIS ACTION CAUSED A SERIOUS

DIPLOMATIC INCIDENT WHICH WAS SETTLED ONLY THROUGH THE PERSONAL

INTERVENTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE USA.

NOW, THE NEW YORK DAILY, IN AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO SALVAGE

ITS REPUTATION, HAS DUG UP A SELF-PROCLAIMED FORMER CIA OFFICIAL

GAVE

WHO SAYS THAT THE CIA GVE

MONEY TO THE GOVERNMENT HERE • NOT TO

ANY INDIVIDUAL.

LAST NIGHT, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALLY AND

EMPHATICALLY DENIED THIS REPORT.

a..".

SECR

ET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3/N..

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-CABLE SEE DISSEM BY

DER_

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED_.

ADVANCE COPY

ACTION UNIT

ISSUED/SLOTTED

RF . FILE

ACTION A

N

F

т 64 4965

El A1 02

TOTAL COPIES_-

SECRET

AL..

, RUN HY

REPRODUCTION

BY OTHER THAI

ISSUING OFFICE

IS PROHIBITED

ST AF F

VR

5

PAGE 0 2 02

TOR: 021959Z MAR 77

IN 203739

16-17

32 39 0

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, ON ITS OWN INITIATIVE AND

WITHOUT ANY PROMPTING FROM WASHINGTON, FOUGHT COMMUNIST INSURRECTION

TO A STANDSTILL HERE IN THE EARLY. SIXTIES. THERE WAS NO NEED

OF ANY PAYMENT FROM THE CIA FOR ANYTHING. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERN-

MENT WAS WHOLEHEARTEDLY IN THIS FIGHT FOR ITS OWN REASONS, TO

PROTECT ITS OWN INTERESTS, USING ITS OWN RESOURCES. "

2, NOTE IN THE ABOVE THAT THE JOURNAL HAS MADE THE

SAME ERROR AS THE GOVERNMENT OF VENEZUELA IN ATTRIBUTING INFO

FROM "INTELLIGENCE SOURCES" AND "AN OLD OFFICIAL OF THE CIA" AS

COMING FROM DAVID PHILLIPS. SINCE ONE OF THE FAVORITE STUNTS IN

THIS COUNTRY IS TO QUOTE STATEMENTS OUT OF CONTEXT AND/OR MISQUOTE

ACCIDENTALLY OR ON PURPOSE, SUCH STATEMENTS RARELY CLARIFY ANY THING;

THEY ONLY COMPLICATE • ALMOST ALWAYS TO OUR DISADVANTAGE.

3, NO FILE. EZ -IMPDET•

*Advised that New York Times article of 1 March has blown the lid off the

situation in Caracas again.

: '

10 10

SECRET

---

