# 104-10003-10164

## Page 1

104-10003-10164

Box 7

---

## Page 2

13-00000

• =

SECRET

Lie

31

19 MAY 196;4

#NA SANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Seter of Naval Jatelligence

Deyartment of the Nary

Attlen:

Fan Ba

I tray 1964

I The lies ol tir Agney contin the flioning perton.

Informallos on ems laval OTbITRUk, bore 36 Febrary 19311

Serge-Dersh, U550- mhe appoleo to be hientieal win Fabioct

me hom on 1 April 1926 in Restor, 016F.

Ste rommelaed is late

milo her parento entil ste sao li, shes sto nas deported by the

Germans to o sent cup to Germy.

Whan the mas entod ste entored

• cano for slopiaced poreone la Dunselor, Geray, there the

WIns hot beined she extered belgise et on mine ite in rentdo

in Anteer

Reportedly che was a master of the Valm of Sovlet

Fostete In Dego fro 1916 6 i958, Sanelso is carly 1952.

Contentch (nis LavO KOSTENKO i Brossla. 1 Bilgit Fallce

Havetigatios of her

101-150626

Document Number 703-860

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

SECRET

19MAy 64

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

201-289248

GROUP T

Excluded trom automalle

doengredina snu

derla citicaties

---

## Page 3

SECRET

invooligatten of bos

reintenship sit AUST AHAD recalled is her

boing fieed fer eloibery ta Septeerter 1903-

He see drence ty

VERAKiM lo Morom bor 1951 end continued Huhng min EiS TaNki

fe, unill late 1990 an 1951.

bore on & Septonder 1928 to Tito, 99th, cored to the Sariel

Arag is berid Far ll talese Joinieg te

Moscar torced i

Agatins gainst the Sortete.

Ated to one te

wed te Germany

ad Bolden ant son ective to sever ant Connselet fastes

the Maternd into Allenre (076).

# 1965 NOTERKO

ed as a soviet gone in credetae

coniact nuts the Sented Exisaay

an epee

Dressie for Mercos la redo

brotel as Sent Balle

mino 1997 openeared by the Sorist Comerites tar

See In VISH BASTANSO reporedly verted tat he and norted

for Bertet lolelligesee ance 1912 and that be was tenteed is te

Soviet Anten for Illligence surk end ducatched to the keet

se a fevlet age. ]

do 11 Jin 1996, la lelios, o enomo of Brascale, i pia

moraled Favel OThlTRUk

descrdhed at

Belersodion etedent al the Velveroley of louis te

Dongles:

Inval Orbite ca incherated to the Walted Dead. I aue reported

Ine is Aily 1207 to reinened te

Belgium to samp to expedito a uta

fow Lydie do jele hin in te

Uniond S0tso. to st Accort +95%,

DYNITRU!'* F,9, restdence on Hotel os 15D Kost Slotsten Street,

Hocklond hichigan.

• In de Mes In LeE 01 ANOT BA

Malag the sor not did on carve in the army. la 1145 he das

arrected by the NAVo and botd for five on sis menthe sa i

(charge concerning Me

Distan tower

deciassification

00000-EL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

an on mo mone d to me dorge made ther

Guest Ho soles resmed fres Ais sorties so mooser

at be notrin feloy.

so l me we tet be We altar he on the ly a tale

Hee cuter 1 306 tEll

@a 1016

0) Me b board 1 3 01 1 Sent bein

for somi duo poro bal Crnied krowing Are Go Onion of Sortet

Put so pality metres o see to set te

(0) Ber vin openin, with ate hired My

Is flins ent to spitentes fera bor Inoired bod todienced e

Pnaty betaure ato bad not bees " ottsal mambor of ths talea

of tortet ratmeti, and fortherors, l noo bee lsstende beltet

thot she nos not a Cemalet

(S) the crived is Arosle Dom Anterp # February 1951

Nee sinter mo de contes dil one (0) MANAACHUl, 18 aftees

tompting to here the slater portiste to the toriot Sales, Sheriy

Bronelo, Lyde set to to sider ent mo currend to died

but 1s nt to ele Repairiotes Milenton, There she net

MACAU me tid to prote her to ret 0 111

No s rott she her deter see to let mahoo for her

the Wet

SECRET

CROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassificatlan

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SEGRET

(6) She Ured with Molliy C. KOSTANko for too en tree

pento from: Apull 1958 and left tim loosse De drnt too cute

vedia," She described NOSTANAO no as actre ant-Conmaniot.

3 Tha fle al tle Agency es Lola DIMITAVA lou no enter

beyond 1957 when the one till living la Dressolo.

ul Impostendon and the freston Comedrules so the Assessiondes of

Froeltant John F, Kennedy en 12 Ajul! 19èé 1 commoctos with the pelttier

ahip between Lpile UTMITRUK ant Marias Prssalua CERALD.

FOS THE DEPUTY DIACETON FOR FIAN:

SAMOS ANGLETS

620l - 3/761-150

ce: Federal Siren of terestigatin

Distribution:

Orly. & 1 - Adiressce

1 . FBI

1 - C/CI

1. C/CI/SIG

1 • C/C1/00/5OV

1 - C/CURBA

1 - C/SR

1 . C/SR/CI

C/sa/CI/R (hald <1 & entebeck cy)

SN/O/US/dI

201-289,248

F1/FI (201 - 153, 620)

SR/CI/ Research:

12 May 1964

SECRET

namate tad

22. 1

---

