# 104-10095-10048

## Page 1

104-10095-10048

JUIGUING MESSHUT

AGE

SIGNAL GENTEr

col

JONLY

TOG

TRE

,0 0 0

MRO

OMF : 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

DATE-TIME GROUP

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

DCI

Tora

PAGE

AGE:

1307/0,

Г. Тра 76.

MESSAGE rEFERENCE NUMBER

DIRECTOR

cITE

950609

INDEX

DISSEM BY:

NO INDEX

NETUNN TO

PER

IP FILES

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAMI

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

TO: PRIORITY MEXICO CITY. Y

RYBAT PLUWCADET Y

REF: DIRECTOR 950056 %

I• HQS WAS UNAWARE UNTIL 28 NOVEMBER THAT HOUSE SELELI

•COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS WENT TO NEXICO CITY ON 27 NOVENDER TO

INTERVIEW A FORMER AGENCY TRANSLATOR SPOSSIBLY MR. DORIS TARASUFF

WIIO NOW RESIDES IN GUADALAJARAJ AND AN UNIDENTIFIED FORMER AGENCY

TYPIST WHO ALLEGEDLY PREPARED A TRANSCRIPT OF A TELLPHONE CALL MADE

IN LATE SEPTENDER 19B3 BY LEC HARVEY OSWALÜTE THE SOVIET CHUASSY IN

MCXICO CITY. THE TRANSCRIPT OF THIS CALL ACCORDING TO ME. CORALD

KESSLER IN HIS 27 NOVENGER "WASHINGTON POST" ARTICLE, ALLEGGILY

CONTAINED AN OFFER BY OSUALD OF UNDEFINED INFORMATION IN RETIN FON

A FREE TRIP TO TIE USSR. Y

2' SHOULD HODSE SELECT COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS CONTACT INE

LSTATION YOU SHOULD BE AWARE THAT NO STAFF HENDER OF THE CONTITTL

JHAS YET RECCIVED A SECURITY CLEARANCE. STATION SHOULD, THEREFORE.

2 NOT DISCUSS WITH INVESTIGATORS ANY CLASSIFIED INFORMATION RECARNING

L'OSWALD'S ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO CITY DETECH 2Y SEPTERPER AND 3 OCEDULE

• DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT :

HELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

JEC:

E

FORM

•:→.,12E

USE PREVIOUS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

i i!

my cessa

---

## Page 2

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACO

TOG

TRE

0

;0

DATE-TIME GROUP

02

DCI

PAGE

OF

PAGES

OMF

D

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

CITE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO: FILE

0

0

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

PER

' DISSEM BY:

O IS FILES

19U3. ANY QUESTIONS TOUCHING ON CLASSIFIED TUFORMATION SHOULD BE

REFERRED TO HUS. Y

3. IN LIGHT OF DEVELOPING HOUSE COMMETTEE INVESTIGATIONS, MOLL

APPRECIATE REPORT OF ANY REPEAT ANY PAPERS AND DOCUNCITS RELATIOG 16

¡THE OSWALD 1903 VISIT TO BREMEXICO CITY AND FOLLOWING INVESTIGATIONS

THAT ARE STILL HELD IN THE STATION. IF ANY PLEASE DESCRIBE SO

DECISION CAN BE MADE CONCERNING FORDARDING TO WAS. "

4• SOME CONSIDERATION BEING GUEN ET HOS TO MARL FULL PUDLIE

DISCLOSURE OF AGENCY HOLDINGS RELATING TO LEE REGEY OSHALE ACTUATERS

DURING 1AB3 TRIP TO NEXICO CITY CHICH IN CART MONITORCE BY COLCAR

AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SURVEILLANCES, AS WELL AS RELATED DEVELOPMENTS.

SUCH-PUBLIC DISCLOSURE WOULD OSVIOUSLY REVEAL

RELATIONSHIP,

AND AGENT TRUE NAMES INCLUDING POSSISLE IDFUTITY LESSER OF

HOUSES USED FOR PHOTO SURVEILLANCE PLEASE PROVIDE US WITH YOUR

"CONSIDERED VIEW OF REACTION OF

AND MEXICAN GOVERNHENT AND

3 POLITICAL AND OPERATIONAL COUNOTATIONS

AND IOPLICATIONS 1F A FULL

2 PULIC DISCLOSSURE WAS MADE. Y

5º NO FILE. E2 IMPDET.

DATE: 3U NOV 1F71

COORD: TG: SCOTT ONCOLLURIEGE PEN DRAGTA

ORIG: JOHN BECKWITH:ROS-DRECKINRIDGE

C1/OG: RUSS HOLICS & IN DRAFT A

UNIT: AC/LA/MACAN

/

IG STAFF

OS/SAG: RAY REARDON

•EXT: 7354

1407

SA/D/O: PHALTO F. FENDIS

MAYHONE A. WARREN/C/LAD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

JOLLIE UI- IAGAEMICATNO OFFICER AT MM.1.1

CLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2

IMPDET

SEC

R

T

CL BY: 10

---

