# 104-10180-10216

## Page 1

(104-10180-10216]

i 1,

"an.

Mr. Palert. DigorTers

Dans Mr. Digarsesos

153317. 961.

Band castract do desol dicticated by J10eal 8009488

ol lso parties thorolo, sad ln los loreal the folionias a pressest le

The Valled Stales Doverment, as toppenedied by the Car.

1os the uno of your nervice and the parloranco el delion dd a costle i-

dentil muture sador to follows 1054048160546088

1. Composalioo. Do tall contleralion lor tho ura d your

corrico and to perturmance of sneelted contidential dallas you mill

Do compenanted In an amoral calendled de lar Fata d 59100 por assa.

ln costormasco with and outfoet is tho sallelos of tale orgaoinstin

Pretemly 1111 Preslia Fay la da account aguel to Sifteen par 063s (195)

paid you direcily or gue ranited by to companan sia. thie peragraph

conotitte locome for Tolarsi la, purposes. Too wiil to soven no d

an Tell an tha proceduras used by lala or partialdos du topiamers 1

lar reportiny respossillline wiil be baned primarily 10oa cor as 1a1

aparty requirescle.

Unlose procladed by mach regalrenesis, tarse

will ba withhold therefrom and uhmaltied by lala organiernes.

2.

Trave'. You will bondvasced os relutarted fundo for

sravel and transporterion esponsos lor poo, pour depondesse and yoar

Donobod allen to and trem your does ile perestral poal of doripamel

•Boronador, and for you disre for aultoriund operational Irarel. Ton

my he ortitiod do por diam ta los of vablatance ts lla comaso ol all

BraTal perforesod herounder and, who autorised, sor you alone walle

on leaporary 165y 8511 1105 9008 pertesdal peel of dadlerone All.

travol, transporailos ssd par dier provided los udas this paragrapa

object lo payment 011 50-astay locompiano rita napless 8630099

mel roguilleão da nuIdng tO Lee antasuetod policies al your cages

laellily, mairiams da diraclad by lao Gorezareas.

To will be alread of ratabarced

---

## Page 2

14-00000

11,

4 992352599

Il le Fucognitud tha1 poz Laliato do Ascosal

las de Ioland any merudi daraneod you terreides diall eside lo 0008

edusea o? asy portia 150se0l fson day medles dio you podor lo dorso

3. Dosatiro fal You will ho astiliad to deala and disability

Dunolla anal la l-06 anserined ador the Sedera S3Dl01900 C-

pra det5- a Allo do arrendodo Chalmi by pol, yoor hairg, or logal repto-

PAraonA Aet (50 D.8.60.A00 App. 1601-1828)

(n) The Unitel Ste COVIE-691111414

hold 15950 tho compantalla dal poemdar thie consei social doteray

MAIORINA, SAN IE PrOCONTOS Al LA OPINIONES (205481924153

Dy you oy en you badel 1d0y 1000044n 01 be tarere di Ol

BI BITON ORA placas approred La nevaDeo by Appropliale doverament

(0) Tou ars berela anchered to apple fes

mollmoal t o bella larruce pregaam la onptata seleuled Contrant

to boar a sorsion al ton premiam c00l, pua síli tar te raraianer.

Your Mantelal +681-s199t1il boetinald +44+s 9711771840664110

os ty d'Irie realando da pastodle larruale lo lo deteriend by bio

lil Tosarebaten 6362071211 7986-99430

чbo10 (0S1941171055edb0speloln+11410183155301

---

## Page 3

22

Proceduraliy, daed 01101470910 tilibe aliced salaat

1l, la to pertara saco of corriede

ento clila ol record lo properly at any scinto malodorar sad rbereres

DO ORACUlA HELIEVES dOENDANA MY bO MENTO by the CureIament lo

ordense this relationally.

lo coatrai and all delorenlos ubled you may obtala by sezaos barool

and pennecation soder toy darlesage dant, taied ly duen 1542, 1a asasied.

2188T9ESICR.

matructless roceived by you spora cho

21371101 1INI 1UID DISCO ATON HE TA

DIVEly -1000i is Trid some 19Y 3006913 tArte

Jorm. thiatonirent lo ottoctivo do of 1 Septerades

19t1o and nell 20nane therealias ius a parlod ol too (3) yours valese

(a) Upon EulMy (M) dapa' acteal moshan by ailtar puery

HOPEL, ON

11) Upas Artial noidea do you to lo 2rans lsa pestica

al su enlilaliy repairal medeni enamirailor aro doter.

---

## Page 4

Sesjest to the arallabillly of approprialia, lila agraenant ay 10

prlos do lao espirados of ltio agronment of any renored lernol. yu

olil nas ho snallod lo rotoro aravel expondo lo your parasauca plaço of

obilallon ol asy secarly ent you mayte soculrod to tela.

DITED STATES GO VIERNMAT

Contracting Olite

ACCEPTHO!

WIINESS

APPROVADI

---

