# 104-10129-10159

## Page 1

104-10129-10159

CLASSITED T

$5293

AUS 50

C IRECTOR

C/LE 3

COP,

C/C 1, C/FI 2, C/SR 3, 5/0 2

ROUTINE

IN 35458

ER 22154

5702

ROSA

1942034582) P

COL ROSS HAS GIVEN US COPY FOLLOWIS CABLE CLASSINGD

1 DESI USAREUR ON RECENT DEFECTION FROG GES UNE

513 TU, MIGRA

13 THE EAST:

-ASS OF INTEREST TO GEN VAN

"PERSONAL INVESTICATION RELATIVERTO SLOBODO INDICATES POLLO ROU

"CUS ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFO LIMITED TO 1CC-3-59 PRIORITY

II COLLICTION OF PUBLICATIONS:

-(2) SUBJECTS DUTIES CONFINED TO CLASSIFYINO, FILING AND LUSTE

OR ICATIONS COLLECTED THROUGR

LOVERT FANS HE DID NOT CONTACTE

SURCES FOR MATERTAL. HE DID SOME ERANSLATING OR DOCUMENTE

SUTY OF THIS SOLDIER WAS LEAST SENSITIVS IN UNIT.

F(30N DISCUSSION WITH CAPT MELNIKORD GERT CORPS RICATES.

TH SECreT US OFFICER IN THE POLIS TRTEELSGENCS PRIOR TO LEFSCIS

FOR POLINDe

CAFT MELNIKOFF FOX.

WOLLECT AT FORT BRAGG. NO INDICATION OF THIS IN RECORDS CHAS VA

FILES AS BEEN REQUESTED FROM CRF HOLABERD.

PERSONAL OPINION IS THAT SUBJECT CAN GIVE

NOTH ENCE OF

---

## Page 2

CLASSINED ESSAGE

CHET

FAGE -

"IM

VALUE TO SOVIETS EXCEPT PERSOHALETY DATA RE CAMP KING PERSONNEL.

22% 2

IS OUTA I FEEL THEY GET ANTIAY RESE PEOPLE THAY THEY PLACE IN

•CHAP KIG-MARIENFELDE STREAM.

"15) DUTIES DID NOT ERING SUBUEST IN CONTACT COLL AND CE

Lace dr.

"(S) BELIEVE GEN VAN NATTA DESIRES INFO BE TRANSMATTED TO

iOSI."

E:D OF. MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: 513TH MIG WOULD PROVIDE FURTHER INFO ON CEFECTION OSLOBOSA.

SEMET

---

