# 104-10072-10314

## Page 1

104-10072-10314

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTIO

SECRETRY BAT

MARKED FOR INDEXING

INFO.

Chief.

Chief,

• HOLIHE

HOUSE; Chief, sUR Division;

FROM

chief of Station. London

Chief.

SUBJECT

MEALINA HEPROBE.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

References:

ORPA-1058, dated 17 April 1968

reports that the assassination of Di- Martin

luther Ring had a dramatic and profoundly disturbing impact upon

the Amide

Se Parien

To yoma female Tonder

\ of the SNCt glils in Paris flew to the U.S. several days later

in order to be where the

action is.". She does not plan to

return but was vesy, impressed by her stay in Paris saying that

she will try to persuade other SNCC members to avail themselves

of the valuable experience to be gained from working with the

Tarious revolutionary groups in Paris., As we foresaw in Reference"

this has left the SNCC group in the joint hands of IDENIITIES A

and C of reference.

Invitations have poured in to speak at

various neetings and it appears likely that IDENTITY A of

as i eat out at many of these meetings."

importance in the Black comnity in Paria is indicated by the

prominent place accorded her in the nemorial service for Dr.

King. (Soe under separate cover attachment 1) - Needless to say.

this renders all the more pressing an early decision on the

proposal contained in Reference-

2. We call your attention to the attached clipping from

the 24: April Le Monde which reports on a press confezence held

by James Foreman, head of the International Affairs department

of Sicc, to announce a meeting supporting Black Power to be

held at Ta Mutualite on 29 April and to be addressed by Jean

Paul Sartre: QRPEOTO/1 told

that there had been some

Attachnents: 2

1 - Menorial Service Program (u/s/c)

2 - Le Honde clipping h/w

Distribution:

1

•HOLINE W/atts

- C/NONUSE w/atts

1 - C/EIR W/atta

CROSS REFERENCE TA → COB/INION N/ 7U

ATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

/CONTINUED. -/

ORPA::1097

• CLASSIFICATION

Rod,

DATE

7536

29 AprIl 1968

HOS FILE NUMBE:

SECREYYBAT

100-6 148/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

- B

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

SECRETRYBAT

CEPA- 1097

confusion regarding Sartre's willingness to speak.

He had

originally accepted to speak at a culturally oriented "gala"

to be held at the Theatre National Populaire and there was

a question regarding his willingness to switch to this more

political atnosphere. The "gala" (see earlier report, paragraph

C of (EPA-919). is now beino nanned for some time in May.

IDENTITY C Of Reference is reported by

working with Foreman in planning for the Mituallte meeting

She is so busy that she has temporarily left her chila with her

mother

IDENTITY C Of Reference is also said to be vorking on

another project-possibly involving travel which la confidential

at this point.

Adrian B. MASLOTT

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT

TO: OEPA-1097

MEEZ NG EX FAVEUR

DE & POUVO. NOIR »

DE 29 AVRIL A LA MUTUAUTÉ

Ali cours d'una conférence de

Presse

connée lundi & Paris,

M.

Jomes Foreman, ancien président

Cornit

de

coordination

aujourd'hui

responsable

faires

internationales

C.C..

annoncé

qu'un

meeting

en faveur du « pouvoir.noir' & 31-

rait lieu à la Mutualité, le 29 avril

à 20 heures. Outre M.

Foreman,

qui est égaiement « ministre des

affaires étrangères » du parti des

Panthères notres,

saire, Daniel

MIVI.

Aimé Cé-

Guérin,

Jean-Paul

Sartre et

Vercors

participeront

notamment à

ceste

réunion

au

cours de laquelle

deux

ront projetés

Now,

films

se-

AI-

rarez, et

JaZZ

de

S.

Au cours

de

d'avant-garde.

sa

conférence

da

presse, MM.

Foreman

évoqué le

meurtre du pasteur King.

ple du

genocide

que

1 0707-

commet

contre les Noirs américains « la

société

exploiteuse

blancie

iste », et l'adoption par le

Con-

grès

américain

interdisant

12

du

projet de loi

discrimination

ciale dans le logement.

Ce texte

de loi contient en

effet

un

cer-

tain nombre de clauses répressi-

ves visant,

selon M

Foreman,

« liquider » les leaders

noirs.

M.

appel

Foreman & faveur

également

lancé

un

plusieurs

membres du parti des

Panthères

noires

emprisonnés

Oakland

(Californie), à la suite d'une fu-

sillade avec la police le 6 avril

dernier, qui a fait un mort - un

jeune Noir de

dix-sept ans.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT I TO:

OEPA- 1097

AMERICAN COMMUNITY SERVICE IN MEMORY

OF

THE REV. DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING

PASTOR - CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER - HOLDER OF THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE

8 APRIL 1968

THE CALL TO WORSHIP - The Rev. Robert A. Spencer - American Church

Prayer

of Invocation

The Lord's Prayer

HYMN NO. 429 "For All the Saints" (vIs. 1-5)

Sine Nomine

PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT

The Hond Woodruff Wallner,

OF THE UNITED STATES

Chargé d'Affaire - U.S. Embassy

OLD TESTAMENT LESSONS • Canon James McNamee: - American Cathedral

Daniel 3:16-25

PRAYERS • Dean Sturgis Riddle - American Cathedral

MESSAGES FROM THE FRENCH CHURCHES

The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal - Federation Protestante de France

Mgsr•

Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of

Paris

Pastor Henri Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NEW TESTAMENT LESSONS - The Rev. Dr. Clayton E. Williams,

Pastor Emeritüs - American Church

Romans 8:31-39

Matthew 10:24-39

INTHEM " The Choir

"Psalm of Penitence" From King David by Arthur Honegger

(Mercy on me, O Lord; pity,

according to thy great compas-

sion.

Wipe away my transgression; cleanse me unto the depth

of my iniquity.

In sin was I conceived.

In evil was I

"born.

And thou wouldst have a pure soul?

I have sinned.

Thou hast taught me thy wisdom, and I have failed in my weak

nesso. Mercy on me, O Lord.")

/ TRIBUTE TO DR. KING - Mrs. Carline Polite - American Author

FROM AN ADDRESS BY DR. KING - Washington, D.C., Aug. 28, 1963

Read by Mr. Neville

Aurelius - Actor

PRAYERS - The Rev. Martin v.B. Sargent - American Church

HYMN - "'We Shall Overcome"

Negro Spiritual

We shall overcome,

we shall

We shall

overcome

some day.

overcome,

Ch,

deep

in my heart I do believe

That we shall overcome someday.

We shall. live in peace, we shall live in peace,

Ve shall live in peace

some

day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall live in

peace some day.

We shall brothers be,

we shall brothers be,

We shall brothers be

some day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall brothers be some day.

RECESSIONAL - The 23rd Psalm

A book of condolences is in the chapel to your right

for those who wish to sign it..

---

