# 104-10181-10130

## Page 1

104-10181-10130

PRIOR IO FILING

Fill in Sect 2 on back Dotich brek flop

and lorwant to RID

Dustroy front rover shoot, unless a sorris

aronheast artion taken or commente teputi

any pieroreshion

FROM.

RID,

• ACTION BRANCH

1: bile no sad lite shima are not proper.

insort prope: lie no below and forward

ducumont to RiD AN

TO ALL ADONESSEES

FILE SECTICUT ON RACH IF APPHOPRIATE

CONMENIS

0000

TO

• 8009

NO

Ш 1/ 1L6

2.

Markiall

5.

Severe

G.

03

8.

9.

Marshall

10

IP/AN

BASO

13.

14.

15.

1 6

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

ABSTRA

DATE MICROFILMED

610a

USE PREVIOUS

EDIIIORS

DATE

RECTINTO PONDINGIO

250172

In Chrows has cy.

2202

Reactio,

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JAN 2 1 1972

AMWITEN-T

MICROFILMED

his assigments.

AN

RECORDS OFFICER STAME

authorized;

R.0. £629 = 1:11

Note:

ro03:

11 appropolato.

73901

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER PRIMARY CODE,

cOcU

•: DAP

6 JIA/2

SECRET

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFAA 03730

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

19D

---

## Page 2

10

19460.

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chia, Western Pemisphee Division

Cat5s"

PROCESSING ACTION

MARRIO FOR PHOENING

AO INDEXING REQUIRED

'ONLY QUAUSHD DESK

iCAN JUDGE INDENING

FROM

Chief of Statien

CH/ Miami

suBunOperational/ Typic. - Liaison/FBI

"Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, aka "Marcos"

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: See paragraph 6

¡MICROFILM

References: A. CAS/M-2913, 8 July 1971 (Havana telephone number 99-4282)

B. CAS/M-2901,

? June 1971 (Havana -or Santiago- telephone

number 5-4792)

C.

UFAW-1038, 24 February 1971 (Cuban telephone numbers)

D.

UFAW -1000, 5 January 1971 (List of telephone numbers

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JAN 2 1 1972

MiCROFILMED

associated with DSE/DGI personalities and installations)

CSCI-316/03120-69, 2 September 1969 ("'The Organization of

the Cuban Directoraté of Intelligence, " Source: Orlando

CASTRO Hidalgo, Cuban DGI Officer who defected 31 March 1969)

I. The purpose of this dispatch is: (A) to suggest the possibility that

Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, former Chief of the DGI Center in Mexico City,

may now be operating in Miami, and (B) to check out this possibility through

Headquarters traces and cooperation with FBI/Miami.

2. FBI/Miami previously reported that, on 13 June 1971, a call was made

to Antonio CASTRO, Havana telephone number 99-4282, by Albio CASTRO,

Miami number 885-4194. Reference A relayed the information to FBI/Miami

that Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez' Havana telephone number was 99-4282,

according to a report dated ll August 1964. That same reference also provided

the information that VEGA Perez had been identified by several sources as an

officer of the Cuban DGI; his DGI alias is "Marcos"; he was assigned to the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City from April 1962 to June 1966 and, during the last

two years of his tour, was Chief of the DGI Center there; and, in October 1966,

he was reported to be Director of International Relations for the Cuban National

(While this appointment to the Council of Culture may seem

an odd one for a DGI officer, we know that the DGI arranges for its personnel to

be assigned such jobs in order to qualify them for Ministry of Foreign Relationg

Distribution:

• Orig d 2 - C/WHD

Continued..•

CROSS REFERENCE IO

DISPATCH SIMOOL AND BLAMBER

UL'AA-3730

CLASSIICATION

D 19-5-35

DATE

Typed: 6 January 1972

MOS FILE NUMBER

y201-334253

2224

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH

SECRETREETI I UFA1-5730

posts oversras. For example, DGl officers have been assigned to the

Casa De Las Americas in preparation for assignments as Cultural Attaches.

Orlando CASTRO Hidalgo also reported that the Cuban Institute of Friendship

with Peoples is now under the control ot the DGl.) Reference A also advised

FB1/Miami that this Station had no information on VEGA Perez activities

subseguent to October 1966.

3. Reference E noted that one "Marcos" (true name unknown) was

assigned to Section Ill of the DGl. (Section Ill is divided into nine sections:

CLA, Counter-Revolution, UN, Mexico, Canada, USSR, Czechoslovakia,

East Germany, and a False Documentation Support unit. ) Perhaps this

"Marcos" is Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez:

seems likely in view of VEGA

Perez background.

4. It should also be noted that FBI/Miami provided information that

one "Marcos" LNU made a call on l June 1971 from Miami telephone 374-2173

(a pay phone) to "Catalina" LNU at Santiago de Cuba telephone number 5-4792.

Although this Station was unable to find any record of Santiago 5-$792, Havana

5-4792 appeared on a list of names, addresses and telephone numbers of

persons believed to be members of Cuban G-2. The list, provided by INS/ Miami

in July 1961, lists this Havana number as belonging to one Jorge FERNANDEZ

(LNU). The list was compiled by INS from a notebook belonging to Salvador

MIZRAJA Behar, born 22 September 1926 in Havana, Cuba. MIZRAJA Beharg

a naturalized U.S. citizen, was a Captain in Cuban Army Intelligence in 1959

and 1960. He returned

to the U.S. in 1961.

5. The possibility exists that an error was made in the original

notation by MIZRAJA Behar; he may have intended to write "Santiago 5-4792"

rather than "Havana 5-4792". Another possibility is that names of cities

were unintentionally transposed later in copying this list. Although the

connection if there is one- is very tenuous, there is also the possibility that

the "Marcos" who called from the pay phone on 1 June 1971 is Manvel Eugenio

VEGA Perez,

new operating as Chief of a DGI (or DSE) Center in Miami. The

Station believes, however, that this latter possibility is worth further

investigation and that the place to begin is to attempt to trace VEGA Perez®

assignments since October 1966.

- 6. Action Requested: (A) Traces on Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez,

aka "Marcos", with particular attention to period October 1966 to the present;

(B) Traces on Salvador MIZRAJA Behar, DPOB: 22 September 1926, Havanag

Cubai, (C) Traces on Antonio CASTRO, Havana telephone number 99-4282g

and on Albio CASTRO, Miami number 885-419#. (Station WH/Miami has

several traces on the name Antonio CASTRO but none identifiable with Cuban

Intelligence.

There is one Antonio CASTRO listed in the 1967 Havana

telephone directory at 19 No. 552, Vedado, telephone number 32-8160. The

Station has no traces on Albio CASTRO.)

Slicquint

SHOQUIS

oy 532

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

-- CLASSIFICÃS

SEiGRET

PAGE NO.

2 of 2

---

