# 104-10307-10032

## Page 1

1104-10307-0032

—WHEN FILLED !1....

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on

back. Detach back flap

and forward to RID

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records:

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

RID/

Mir.

BID/AT : 6

TO: ACTION BRANCH

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

dad

• TO

FE/UNEV

CE

RoOM

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICERS

C5-3/565,326

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2003

13.

14.

15.

16.

/FI

RACI

EQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

VIETNAM

610a

"EDITIONS

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FILE PIFLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODET

:200-9-42

OCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

FVS

09840

12 Nor, 63

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

REPORT COVER SHEET

FROM

SAIGON

REPORTING OFFICER

URSULA T. GREGSAMER

REPORTS OFFICER

RUTH S. DEICHSTETTER

APPROVING OFFICER

LEWIS W. KALENT

BACKSOUND DATA AND CONTENTE

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE OF REPORT

RD. NO.

PROJ.

S'CE CR.

REPORT

.to.

FVS- 9840

12 NOVEMBER 1963

UNION

1.

DISSEM 1 TD.

2.

AN

FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS RELIABLE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT-

THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC ACI

OF VIETNAM PROBABLY WAS MAKING THE ARRANGEMENTS DESCRIBED

ALSO SEE FIELD COMMENT.

3. PARI 1267 /UNION REPORT DATED 24 OCTOBER/

4. N2 INDEX

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

EXTRA-AGENCY

BY TAPE

3- HQS

2-HULA

BY POUCH

15-STATION

1 - NHA TRANG

1- CAN THO

1 - HUE

1- DA NANG

COUNTRY

NORTH VIETNAM/CUBAMY THO

SUBJECT

• PASSAGE REQUESTED FOR 35

NORTH VIETNAMESE TO FLY TO CUBA

1-STATE

8- USMACV

1- ARMY

2- MAAG

1 - NAVY

1 - USOM

1-AIR

1- USOM/PSD

2-9TH FLD. STA. 1-USIS

4- 2ND AIR DIV

NO. OF ENCLOSURES

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatie

PADA

APPR

FoRM

1467 LEVIOUS

EDITION.

CONFIDENILAL

CS CONT

VIETNAM, SAIGON /30 OCTOBER 1963/

24 OCTOBER 1963

(20)

900-9-42

---

## Page 3

13-00000

..e.

1. BY 24 OCTOBER 1963 THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM / DRV/

MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS HAD ASKED THE DRV

EMBASSY IN PRAGUE TO RESERVE AIR PASSAGE TO CUBA FOR 35 PERSONS

WHO:NERE TO LEAVE: DIRECTLY FOR HAVANA FRON PRAGUE OR MOSCOW ON.

11 NOVEMBER. /FIELD COMMENT. AFTER THE APPOINTMENT IN JULY ~1963.

OF NGUYEN VAN HIEU, FORMER SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL FRONT

FOR THE LIBERATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM /NFLSVN/ AS PERMANENT REPRE®

SENTATIVE TO CUBA, HANOI RADIO ANNOUNCED THAT ON 27 SEPTEMBER A

•'COMMITTEE FOR SOLIDARITY WITH THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM'' HAD

BEEN FORMED IN CUBA. IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT EITHER THE NFLSVN

$ 1077

---

## Page 4

13-00000

2

OR THE DRV TRADE UNION DELEGATION PRESENTLY IN MOSCOW FOR THE

TRADE UNION CONGRESS MIGHT LATER VISIT CUBA.

2C:C-9-42

---

