# 104-10216-10263

## Page 1

104-10216-10263

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

OF

¡OCS IN URMAT:ON RIPERI

ORIG.

VirRinia B.

Flynn: eb

EXT.

NH/SA/Intel/Reports

DATE

5547

11 December 1964

CONFIRMATIÓN COPIES

WH/SA 11

INFORMATION COPIES

SECRET

ROUTING

DEE 1 I1 72259

TDCSDB-315/01631-64

CI/OPS, CI/IC, PI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IN, CA 2, CA/PEG, DO/H, HE 8, WH 9

DATE DISTRIDUTED

11 December 1964

DISSEMINATION

SAVE

6 SA/ST

IKE/5/RT 1

SA/Int

I SA/ WAVE

IKE/

1

SA/EOB

CUISA/SO/EH

INE/R

SA/CI

1

1

WE/3/R

2

SA/MOB

1/ KH/PACY

EVALUATION

THEL

1

REQUESTED

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

PRECEDENCE

XI ROUTINE

BASED ON (RD. IPT., PIOJ.)

+8019

(IN-38266)

NP (ASLASH-])

Liaison *

AlR

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

RUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CUASSIFICATION

SEGRET

CUMEN FILED IN

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

Vesti DI

don attens

C/WH/SA/Intel

COPY NO.

8-0-4-499

1.1593165

---

## Page 2

CENTEAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.

NOVEMBER - EARLY DECEMBER 1964

- SUBJECT

EFFECT OF CUBA'S ECONOMIC DIFFICULTIES ON

FIDEL CASTRO'S POSITION

TDCS DB-315/01631-64

DISTR 11 DECEMBER 1964

PLACE A

DATE ACQ. 6 DECEMBER 1964

REF

IN_ 38266

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO.

• AND

APPRAISAL: A FORMER HIGH-LEVEL CUBAN OFFICIAL WHO WAS ONCE ACTIVE IN THE

REVOLUTIONARY MOVESENT AND A CONFIDANT OF FIDEL CASTRO. HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN ANTI-CONSUNIST AND IS NOW STRONGLY ANTI-CASTRO. HE

CONTINUES TO MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH SANY CUBAN OFFICIALS AT ALL

LEVELS OF GOVERNIENT.

SOURCE HAS PROVIDED A LIMITED NUMBER OF

REPORTS WHICH APFEAR TO HAVE BEEN ACCURATE.

-

1. CUBA IS PACED WITH SERIOUS ECONONIC DIFFICULTIES: THE

COUNTRY HAS MANY PROBLEMS WHICH DEFY SOLUTION, BUT WHAT WORRIES

FIDEL CASTRO THE MOST IS THAT HE IS UNABLE TO SEE ANY SOLUTION TO

THE CRISIS. ALL ECONOMTC PLANS END IN FAILURE. CASTRO BLAMES THE

PERSONALITIES INVOLVED AND PUBLICLY CASTICATES THESI, BUT HE REFUSES

TO BELIEVE THE SYSTEM IS WRONG. AS A RESULI, CASTRO ASSUMES PER-

SONAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR MORE PROGRAMS, FEWER PEOPLE ARE WILLING TO

ASSUME RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANNING, AND EVEN CASTRO IS UNABLE TO

DIRECT ALL THE PROGRAMS HE HAS UNDERTAKEN.

This material contains Informaßion alecting tbe National Defense of tbe United States withta the menniry of the Esploange Laws, Tile

18, U80. Door 193 and 194 the trunemladon or revelation of which la any manner to an unnutharleed person la prohibited by law.

NO PIUJIY ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE/INA

DIA ARMIT/ACSI NAVE AI

SCS SECDEF NSA

NIE XIS XIA OC ONE OCR ORE CO FBI

REPCINCLAY?

TPEASURY

COLMERCE

EXO

atist treat a virginia so 725 on it 2ä.506

---

## Page 3

• SECRET

DCS DB-315,

01631-6

PAGE 2

2. CUBA REALIZES THAT THE USSR CANNOI ASSUSE RESPONSIBILITY

FOR ALL OF CUBA'S SCONOMIC NEEDS UNDER EXISTING CONDITIONS. THERE-

FORE, CUBA HAS CHANGED HER FOREIGY COUMERCIAL POLICY AND IS NOW

PLACING INCREASED EMPHASIS ON TRADE WITH NON-BLOC COUNTRIES.

INITIALLY, WHEN CUBA HAD AMPLE FOREIGN EXCHANGE, THE POLICY OF IN-

CREASING TRADE WITH NON-BLOC COUNTRIES SHOWED SOME PROMISE, BUT

WITH INADEQUATS EXCHANGE FACILITIES, AS AT PRESENT,, CUBA IS UNABLE

TO MEST TRYS OF EXISTING COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS AND IS FINDING IT

DIFFICULT TO NEGOTIATE NEW AGREEMENTS, THE FEW AGREENENTS WHICH

HAVE BEEN NEGOTIATED CONTAIN TERMS UNPAVORABLE TO CUBA.

• 3. CUBA'S ECONCHIC-CONBERCIAL DILENSA IS THE PRIMARY REASON

WHY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE ANTONIO CARRILLO CARRERAS RETURNED

TO HAVANA ON 1 DECEMBER. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: SEE TDCS-314/06460-

64.) PIERRE NIETO, FRENCH BUSINESSHAN WHO IS IN HAVANA, IS PROPOS-

ING A SIXTY-MILLION-DOLLAR TRADS PACKAGE FOR WHICH NIETO CLAIMS HE

CAN ARRANGE FRENCH FINANCING. THIS IS ONE OF THE SPECIFICS WHICH

CARRILLO, WHO DISLIKES NIETO, IS DISCUSSING WITH FIDEL CASTRO AND

ERNESTO "CHE" CUEVARA, (FIELD COMMENT: SOURCE, WHO LEFT HAVANA IN

EARLY NOVEBER 1964, NOTED THAT A FEW WEEKS BEFORE HIS DEPARTURE

TERS WAS A DISTINCT CHANGE IN THE ATTITUDE OF HIGH CUBAN OFFICIALS

WIFE RESPECT TO THS UNITED STATES. ON THE RASIS OF CONVERSATIONS

WITH OFFICIALS CLOSE TO FIDEL CASTRO, WHOY SOURCE DID NOT IDENTIFY,

SOURCE BECAME CONVINCED THAT CASTRO IS WILLING TO ENTER INTO COM-

MERCIAL DIALOGUS WITH THE UNITED STATES AND IS SEARCHING FOR

OPENINGS TO DO SO.)

• SECRET.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEV

NO DISIN AEROUD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

• SECRET

TDCS DB-315/

01631-67

PAGE 3

1. BECAUSE CASTRO IS ASSUMING PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR

MARTY OF CUBA'S ECONGAIC PROGRAYS AND IS ALSO EMILIÍO, MORE PEOPLE

ARE BSGINNING TO CRITICIZE HIM, ALTHOUCH IGI TO THE EXTEST OF DIS-

CUSSING TEE POSSIDILITY OF REMOTING HIM FRCH POWER. (SOURCE COMMENT:

CASTRO REXAINS THS SOLE KEY TO THE CUBAN FROBLEM AND WHILE HE IS IN

PLACE NO ONE DARES ATTEYPE TO CECANIZE A COLF AGAINST HIS PÉGINE.)

(HEADQUARTERS COKENT: RUYORS ABOUT THE EVENTS WHICH LED TO THE

DISKISSAL ON 19 HOVEMBER OF JOAQUIN ORDOQUE MESA SUGGEST THAT

SOURCE'S THESIS MAY NUT BE COMPISTELY VALID: CSD9-312/01269-64 IS

ALONG REPORTS WHICH INDICATE THAT ORDOQUI HID BEEN PLANNING A COUP.)

5. ALTHOUCH THEY ARS OPPOSED TO WHAT IS HAPPENING IN CUBA, IN-

DIVIDUALS LIKE EFICENTO ASFIJEIRAS DEIGADO, VICE-HINISTER OF SPECIAL

AFFAIRS OF THE APHED FORCES, AND JOSS A. MARANTO, PRESIDENT OF THE

COSMITTEE OF COORDINATION, EXECUTION AND INSPSCTIOS (JUCEI) IN

HAVANA, ARE AFRAID TO FARTICIPATE IN OR EVSY PLAN A MOVE AGAINST

CASTRO. OTHER PERSONS NEO REACH & POINT CE TOTAL FRUSTRATION EITHER

LEAVE CUBA IF THEY CAN, OR RESIG THEIR POSITIONS AS DID JOSE ASSEE ..

YARA. ASSEF HAD BEEN OFFERED THE JOB AS JUCEI CHIEF IS MARIANAO

BUT HE WAS CONVINCED OF THE I22D TO PEFLACE EVERY HICH OFFICIAL IN

TEE MINICIPALITI, AID HE BELIEYED HE WOULD NCT RECEIVE THE BACKING

OF TFE RÉGIME IF HE DID SO. ASSET HOW ATTENDS CLASSES AT HATANA

UNIVERSITY AND HOPES TO COXTINUE HIS MEDICAL STUDIES. DR. JUAN

NUIRY SANCHEZ, ASSISTANI TO THE TICS-RECIOR OF EDUCATION OF HAVANA

UNIVERSITY, IS ANOTHER PERSON WEO REMAINS CONCERIED ABOUT THE DIS-

ASTROL'S SITUATION EN CUBA, (DISTO CORRENT:

SOURCE EXPRESSED

• SECRET

NO DISOLK AEFOAD/BICKGROUND ESS ONLY

in si56,

is grin

---

## Page 5

14-00000

• SEGRET

TDCS)B- 315/

01631-64

PAGE 4

COYVICTION THAT WITHOUT ADKITTING IT OPENLY HORE AND SORE OFFICIALS

IN THE RÉGINS WERE REACHING THE CONCLUSION HE HAD REACHED SOME TIME

ACO, THAT "THE ONLY CURE FOR RABIES IS TO GET RID OF THE DOG. ")

6. FIELD DISSEL: CINCLANI, CINCSO.

END OF WESSACS

":

...--

• SECRET

TO FOREIGN DICE

CONTROLLED DISSEN

I0 DISSSA ABROAD/BACKGROLSD USE ONZ.

prasan

---

