# 104-10165-10113

## Page 1

104-10165-10113

. До

.."..

CASLE SECRETARNT D

FICUMIT AUTIFICA

TOTM COMES 28 "MAGMOVORIT

C- 91333

SECRET

CASURE

VOLUMES FREE

(When Filled taf

REPRODUCTON OF THIS COFY PROMIBITED

ARUANCICOPY

BLOTTRO

CLASSITY TO PILA 200...

THEN TO FILE NO..

PILE NO CRET. TO

Ramos!

DESTROY D BIG.

va -

C=/aps/

WH-S, CA-5, CAfleo cAfPRop

CI/OA

SECRE: 152232Z MAY 68 CITE JINAVE 2325

THICSSES H

DIRECTOR INFO

TYFIC MHSPAWN ANCORE

REF A

UFGW 7225

=

B

UFGA 29975

C-91333

: 1o POUCHINE RADIO LAJERIAD REPLY TO CANCURE-2, LETTER DE 9 MARCH

IN KNICH ANCORE-2 OSFERED HIS SERVICES. REPLY WRITTEN BYETRANGISCO

¡MEZ ON 7 MAY INDICATES THAT RADIO LIBERTAD WOULD "BE PROUD TO BE

ABLE TO COUNT ON YOUR CAMCORE-2'SI VALUABLE COLLABORATION."

NUNEZ

ADDED, HOWEVER, THAT "CERTAIN LOCAL CONDITIONS" WOULD MAKE IT

ADVISASLE TO DISCUSS PERSONALLY WITH AMCORE-2 THE MANNER IN WHICH

TRANSHISSICNS OF ARICORE-2 BROADCASIS COULD BE. EFFECTED.. NUMEZ

SUGGESTED IHAT IT WOULD BE PREFERABLE FOR AMCORE-2 TO VISIT CARACAS

FOR A BRiEFING, BUT SAID THAT HE WOULD BE WILLING TO SEND AN

EXPLAMATORY MEMO TO

AïCORE-2 IF A TRIP NOT POSSIBLE.

20 PLS ADVISE IF HQS PREFERS HAVE AMCORE-2 MAXE TRIP. VISI WOULD

MAVE THE ADVAÑTAGE OF DEVELOPING RAPPORI AND ALLOW FOR PERSONAL

INSTIC. LUN OF PADIO LIBERTAD FACILITIES. IF TRIP NOT DEEMED

ADVISABLE, WILL INSTRUCT AMCORE-2 TO REQUEST MEMO OFFERED BY NUNEZ

SEGRET

BI

L

SER

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

VIBR

---

