# 104-10109-10347

## Page 1

104-10109-10347

• Investigative Transmittal Sheet

SUBIEET:

TITLE AND GRADE:

AYERS, BRADLEY

TYPE:

5140-78210

DATE:

MAYGY

NUMBER:

1366

085

RACES ITC

REC'D. OS

The subject case is herewith submitted for limited investigation, sa follows:

If as ony lime investigation should develop information which would constitute grounds for approval or disapproval, the case should

be closed and the reports forwarded so us.

1.

Name Checks As Follows:

RETURN WHEN COMPLETED.

AGENCY

PRIOR RETURNS

AGENCY

Fat

HGUA

ONE

OSI (MDO)

OSt AT* DIST.

ACS!

STATE (SY)

STATE (NO)

C91F

C5C

A60

THE FOLLOWING AGENCY MAY HAVE REPORTS ON FILE:

The Following Additional Government Records Are To Be Checked On The Subject Person:

MILITARY SERVICE

3.

The Following Additional Government Records Are To Be Checked On The Person or Persons Indicated:

on Record Are To Be C

PRIOR RETURNS

4.

Field Investigation, As Follows:

DEV

N'NOR

ВРУС

CRED

AREA

EMPLOYMENT

EDUCATION

BIRTH

HOOD

COY

DOB:

7 March 1935

ED detacel

РОВ:

MINNESOTA

belour up rce unil

Captain

US.

TS issued 1/39/58 be

ASiAl.

Benning, ba.

Misd Pill- IT been senten

Speclal Coverage As Follows:

will be an loan to Orency for In dare roger de

Couplete

ly 189

c/CB, disedly.

June, 1964

The following persons who have applied to or work in this agency may know or be related to subject:

NAME

NUMBER

LOCATION

Are a Petrie 228

FORM

864

USE PREVIOUS

1 - 63

EDITIONE

RELATIONSHIP

A 399

318d96 650116

{49-4Đ)

---

