# 104-10072-10001

## Page 1

104-10072-10001

FROM

Costa Roa

REPORT MADE BY:

REPORT APPROVED r 88a7e . 10.

DATE OF REPORT: 1 FebruAry 1956

DISTRIBUTION:

By copy 8о:

8 - ineblagton, /att.

I -1110

Orally to:

Eisbaaay

SOURCE CRYPTONYM

SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS

Attachmentar

1 copy enab of astochant to

& ooples to lashington.

SECRET

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET

REPORT NO.

1906

NO. PAGES:

2

NO. ENCLOSURES: Beo bolow

REFERENCES:

Ire/att.

70/8100

Ja/o atto

i/o att.

ID NO

IG NO.

KRYPTON: DYES ONO

3P

M.0F

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

COUNTRY:

SUBJECT: Quatemalan Bollo Activitie:

SECRET

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

i:;:

" :

id idated in : ice

:: 62392120ee

PLACE ACQUIRED: Conta Rican.

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF EN:::"

High lovel Central Amerioan exile (F). Appraisal of concent,

addressed to the accormodation eddrass

uhich 18 qued by COSENZA, and 1o ena tranalacos an lollari jo

Su: 100. "

"Although I have wanted vary,

much to anewer your letter a?? incenter: it

rongeek, many things have /bbstrusted it end do Elma rao alipped ly areiar:

my wiah, so that I have been able to vrito you only today.

the eray one with non ve wore doallng mao trying to segoliato m

participate in the winnings which there sould be ulchout moh riet an hle parr.?,

If-the businoes failed for one reason or another, 1t does 208 simrify englain

more than a loss of time and some short range hopos, but sor 1a la laportant

mannery Far from that.

Bonething positivo la being accompliared milie a

goneral line of forcing Maria Dolores to act 10 a parnar which lo food for so,

I hopo to continue in the activity and I hare exactly the pallence of a pla

repairing Ita not ta walt, for a fly to fall Into 1t.

nth relation to what you transcribed Iron Done tioha, usat la do to lie la

that the fat ono? who was formorly so close to no, has

dedicatod himself to the task of defaming no because he vas unablo to dol

soothing he wanted fron me.

Since he has nothing elsa to say.

be says tal

already

Tue friend uho rocently arrived from El Indorol jon Laaronso your a

1aforsat1oo concering thia. I have already mitren to no good is i f

opportunity.

will rouperate. chumpe.

"I have strengthened the conneotions with Roquell and other friendo os ebo

SECRET

FORD 9S 51-58 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED.

•=.

200-4-175212

amarant

CanD

REPRODUOTIORE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

206

"Sinos ni morona'.

cotivate our requests and also.

soo 18 the provalling circumatances can be taten advantago of and given a

parpose.

"I consider it artrenaly important that ve maintain ourselves in closer

correspondence than up to now.

I understand that it le I to bave failed to

snever you, but I hope that the emplanation of the evento alo alfiolent.

Falling to do so would be to fail to shou intorest and would even recult 1a

evorything becoming oold and paralysed for whe knows how long.

fre the only road which should be followed."

SOURCE CORTS WIEDERHELIMANN

1. (coL Ernesto Mes

the A rematan or tientein drewolt tish was discovered and destroyed by

3. A code pama POr duatalas Proodant Certi CASTILLO ArRA.

4. Auguoto CHARNAUD MadDonald.

5. (MajOr) MArCO AntONIO FRANCO Chacon, Abcording to Humberto GONZALEZ Juares,

there san' a disagreement between FRANCO and PAZ Tojade, shtch remlted In

WIEDERHEITMANN

6.. The Commintato.

7.: Hunderto DONZALEZ Juaros.

8o Il Salvador.

"' 9• Healeo.

1lo Queterala.

12. Juan 5006 KREYAZO.

SECRET 2004-173217

---

## Page 4

14-00000

forcaido Pedrito:

Sn. Saloader 1g

Amo que ha dado mucho noi desto disigil

pora das resputata a la tuga del 7 de dia ppto, 2000

ha fito) ido depicailaido y poco a poco parsadado.

tirispo, ls que hace que. onte vi voluntad, hact hag pe

diriginto talas lindes

Ei pesar. de las alliras noliciso que tahés odo

o, yo crei que lo incededo no pasa de ser in incidealt

tural en el oficio. En saludad so eres que el coco com quito

tata, datata listando de regreiar y participo en la0 o

Tre tantidiane di mieles delei de in parte. Gai to

a desde e primapo , por ine trete de ofter il test

sile de dopo riso che de pante. Si i negoo fallo por

spor b, agoris no es una perdida sia, que de fisso f

fintamiento gendeal de

hallo a

inaria solordo actuar en la fo

que nos caricae. " renão laperduges de continear la la ae

vidad , istoy precisamente con la paciencia de la asaña, re-

ella.

credisato a la note tara de defamarns, ispecialussle, go g

no puede decir ita cosa, que lengo may cetrachso raciono ç0

temazco a lo camazzo.

Como tu Compacudos, colo no t0 10

sudio beccati aunque il la seto so ripeta 89 0

haci poro llegó de por el fatide, la port

200-09-193 212

ROTMINABLE

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Elvira sacros

Elvira Packe

Si don

Justo garcia

Apartado Toolar 2692.

Sou fore,

VIA AIR MAIL

Coda Ria, A to

REFACONATION IS PEST OBTAIABLE

FROM AFEATURE GARD SUBMITTED

---

## Page 6

14-00000

fintaleis hes

Lo no fud, vegitie

Fectinas a mnclres

contiienfilen

day muns color coc

efacer la contiauidad de accion ?

ensargar las ciemulenins

Ericeideo unemente

sirins ia concipendesun ouds coless

sare que do deerdo sane.

радило в солеістох

wyu н acls,

diso ines no cefie y prcone ae

FNOM

AVE

---

