# 104-10217-10069

## Page 1

104-10217-10069

DATE

047

21 AUG 60

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM. & HAVANA

ACTION & WH 7

INFO

00/P, COP, ADOP/A, S/E 2

CLASSIFIED MiSSAGE

SECRET

RE Fling (cArst ute)

18 Ele las copy so nademend

Martens

ne so 201-2'75949804/4)

ROUTING

4

2

5

AUG 21 0740z 60

PRIORITY

IN 41008

BITY DIR INTO MASH CITE HAVA 3784 STRETT ACTING Brand Xiey'L

NO NIGHT ACTION

201-247288

201-239098

INET

halls 20/ (WiNe)

ON iS AUG ANCALL-I REVEALED FOLL DETAILS RE ANTI-CASTRO

•GOUP HE INSTRUMENTAL IN FORMING CALLED

AGION DEMOCRATICA

PEVOLUCIONARIA CADR?&

NATIONAL DIRECTORATES NUMBERTO PEREZ SAGUY PHRAL

MALIO FIALLO, HECTOR RAVELO, ANTONIO TERNANDE JUEVA,

AND

'ANCALL -1•

NATIONAL COORDINATORS ANCALL-1 AND LOSTDEY ROPE. TO

FERSUADE MANOLO RAY ASSUME THIS POSITION.

RI/FI

=. Co ACTION ARMS: ROBERTO

JIMENEZ, FEU PRES AT UNIV 05

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIATED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

LE SO

• SECRET

PAGE.

HAVA 5704

* IN

41008

LAS VILLAS NHO CLAIMS TO HAVE ONE THOUSAND MEN READY TO TAKE TO

KE HILLS AND FIGUT AT PROPER TIMS

BABEL. 925 1A11 1680910

Ma-Bas

AND

AT UNIV OF HABANA.

AT UNIV OF VILLANUEVA.

Do: SABOTAGE TEAMS I

ENU, FORMER ASSISTANT TO

SOON DE LA CAMPAR!

'(nebably Manue Rãy'5 poseudo-see FI

THE LATER AS IT CANO RESENS YOURE CA

WHỌ HAS TUENTY MEN IN AGRUPACION CATOLICOPI

Odon Alvarez

UNIVERSITARIA WHO NOW SPOTTING TARGETS•

de la Cerea

ANCALLI PROVIDED BINIARIS WITH LETTER TO ANWAIL IN

WHICH HE ARGUES WITH FRD CONCEPT OF SENDING ABLE BODIED MEN OUT

& CUBA FOR INVASION PREPARATIONS WITHOUT FIRST HAVING

ESTAGLISHED A SOLID INTERNAL RESISTANCE ORGANIZATION HERE®

IN

SPARATE MEMO OUTLINING PURPOSES OF ADR, AMCALL-1 STATES THERE

IS DESPERATE EAGERNESS WITHIN FRD AND MRR TO OVERTHROW THE TYRANT

MEDIATELY, A THING WHICH BESIDES BEING IMPOSSIBLE WOULD NOT

ENEFIT THE SUTURE OF OUR COUNTRY FOR WE WOULD DESTROY THE

REGIME BUT IN MINDS OF MASSES THERE WOULD REMAIN A HYSTICISM

1

T088 1389 T

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FILE SO

•SECRET

PAGE

HAVA 5724

IN

41008

C.I• LOYALTY TO CASTROS WHICH HI MUST DESTROY FIRST.

STATION

FOUCKING LETTER SAD MEMO,9 PAStY as 1997055

Peraved cupy ibed me indressed

RE To Sang Mark o

ANCALL- REPORTED: 1'AUG THAT THE ADR WAS GOING TO MEET

SETH. DAVID SALYADOR IN ORDER DETERMINE ADVISEABILITY INCORPORATING

SALVADOR FORCES INTO ADRO AT PARA & MEETING AMCALL-I REPORTED THEY

HAD REJECTED SALVADOR AND IF SALVADOR CLAIM THAT HE AND HIS

S3 NOVEMBER GROUP RECEIVING ERCOURAGEMENT FROM ODACID VERE

TRUE,. ODACID, CRAZY AND SHORTSIGHTED.

ANCALL-S PLANNING TRAVEL MIAMI SOON DISCUSS THESE PROBLEMS

BITH AVAIL®

1019.500

STATION NOW EXPEDITING VIShe

VILL ADVISE TRAVEL

FLANS •

STATION OF OPINION ANCALL-S AND ADR SHOULD BE GIVEN SERICUS

CONSIDERATION IN TOTAL SMARC PROGRAM.

HAVE REQUESTED HE PROVIDE

PADIO OPERATOR CANDIDATE TO BE TRAINED BY AMPHODARCH-11O HAVE

ALSO PROVIDED 400 PESOS SUPPORT CURRENT PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATIONAL

BORK.

WOULD APPRECIATE HOS VIEWS SOONEST.

FILED 2829272

END OF MESSAGE

C4S COMENTS "HAVA REPORTED ANCALL-I DEVELOPING CLANDESTINE ACTION ARM OF

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

2u one trot

---

