# 104-10193-10173

## Page 1

104-10193-10173

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE

H23 OCT 61

TO

¿DIRECTOR

FROM SUNWAVE

ActiONs sZl 10

INFO

, D0/P, COP, ADDP/A, Wit 5, 0ç 6, S/C 2

•LANDITILU MICSONUE

SECRET,

ROUTING

Noth

0b

OCT 20 0404Z 61

ROUTINE

DIR CITE. WAVE 8632

JAZIP PN

RETS DIR 18798 @UT-595811

1• FOLL INFO OBTAINED CARLOS BANDIN ARA LAZARO DURING DEBRIEFING 17

OCT& LAZARO PRESENT LEADER

_MRR. ESTEBAN HIS DEPUTY, ACTING AS CHIEF

IN HIS ABSENCE• AMRONC-S WILL BE NATIONAL MILITARY COORDINATOR UPON

RETURN PARUMEN• AMJAVA-A PLANS RETURN PBRUMEN WITH LAZARO. UPON THEIR

ARSIVAL THE EXEC COMMITTEE MRR WILL DECIDE WHAT POSITION EACH WILL

FELLA SUBJECTS INFORMED C/O THAT THEY WOULD ABIDE BY WHATEVER DECISION

TAS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MAKSS AND IMAT THERE WILL BE NO CONFLICT.

LAZASO STATED THAT THERE IS NOW. COMPLETE COOPERATION PBRUMEN BETWEEN

MR?, MRP, RESCATE, 30 NOV AND THAT IT IS POSSIBLE TO UNITE THESE BROUPS

AT THISTIME. ME BELIEVES THAT THE DRE AND MOC WOULD ALSO JOIN SUCH

AN ORSANIZATION• SUBJECT STATED THAT THE ABOVE SIX GROUPS ARE THE ONLY

SIGNIFICANT GROUPS IN PSRUMEN. ABOVE GROUPS ARE INTERESTED IN HAVING

SUPPLIES SENT TO THEM THROUGH ONE CENTRAL POINT TO AVOID CONFLICTS

WITA EACH OTHER. LAZARO INFORMED C/O THAT GROUP LEADERS INSIDE COULD

POSSIBLY ELECT AN OVERALL COORDINATOR.

Z0 LAZARO ARRESTED DUE SABORII WHO WORKED AMPUG NET. AMPUG

INTRODUCED LAZARO TO SABERIT AT TIME MRR USING PEKLOX CHANNEL. (THIS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

LASSIFICU MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE

TO

FROM

ACTION •

INFO

ROUTING

TS

PAGE 2

WAVE 8632 IN 49097..

PROBABLE TOOK PLACE AT TIME NOTLOX RADIO BEING TRANSFERRED FROM.

VENEZUEGAN EMBASSY TO A SAFEHOUSEO) LAZARO STATED THAT AMPUO "TALKED

TOO MUCH" AND CONFIDED IN SABORIT. LAZARO BELIEVES AMPUG WAS IN THE

DON NEXT TO HINÁT 8-2 HOUSE WHERE HE WAS IN SOLITARY CONFINEMENT TOR

3 WKS. LAZARO BELIEVES RECOGNIZED VOICE IN NEXT ROOM AS THAT OF AMPUG

AND STATED SUBJECT RECEIVED PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT, WATER MORE THAN ONCE

A DAY, SHOWERS, ETC.

SO FYI, SUBJECT ALSO KNEW AMCOAX-I BY TRUE NAME, BY CHACHO AND BY

ERNESTO, LAZARO PLANS RETURN PBRUMEN VITHIN ONE MONTH. HE. 1S

KNOWLEDGEABLE ALL ACTIVITIES MRR AND WHILE IN POPRIME WILL ATTEMPT

GET FACTIONS MRR WORK TOGETHER. DEBRIEFING REPORT FOLLOWS BY DISPATCH.

DEBRIEFINO RE NOTLOX CIRCUIT WILL FULLUW

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "REQUESTEO LAZARO BE COMPLETELY DEBRIEFED RE NOTLOX CIRCUIT.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy No.

---

